-----~---~ -------------......----...,...-­
---~--~----------­
... Solari -Page 2 

VOL. XV, NO. 92 an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and saint mary's MONDAY, FEBRUARY 25, 1980 
Massive bar raid ruts patrons' evening short 
by john M. McGrath 
Senior StaffReporter 

Goose's Nest bar, 1003 Notre Dame Ave., was the target of a massive police raid at approximately 11:45 p.m. Saturday night. South Bend Police, including plainclothes vice squad members and In­diana State Excise officers were involved in_ the raid, termed by some observers at the scene as the largest in recent years. 
South Bend Police confirmed yesterday that nobody was ar­rested in the incident, however. 
!'he "word" had been out anoss the Notre Dame--St. Mary's campuses late last week that local bars would be "safe" Friday and Saturday nights because of the presence of visitors for .J un10r Parents' Weekend. Liquor Control Au­thorities had other ideas, how­ever, and the timing of the raid fuund a standing room only crowd of underage patrons i11s1de the Goose's Nest. 
A vice squad officer at the scene who refused to be identi­tied, said at least 189 people under the age of 21 were .. rrapped" in the establishment at the time of the lightning qu1ck raid. 
PDiice worked by a process of elimination, allowing only those with 21 identification to leave the establishment through heavily guarded exits. Finally, only the minors remained in­side. 
Fm a tense half hour, it was unclear whether there would be mass arrests, especially after the arrival of a police van at the scene. Apparently the sheer weigh' of numbers fmally forced police to abandon that idea, however. 
··It would be unfeasible and probably even unfair to try to arrest this many people," orie vice squad member said. "So we've decided not to take 
anyone." 
The same vice squad officer 
indicated at the scene, how­
ever, that 30-35 minors had 
been identified and cited for 
violation of underage drinking 
laws and would face court 
appearances. 
No names· were released. He 
also indicated that the Goose's 
Nest would be cited for selling 
alcoholic beverages to minors. 
It was an eerie scene outside 
the bar as a large crowd 
gathered. Many worried stu­
dents who had been released 
after showing proof of age or 
who had escaped being trapped 
swod outside wondering about 
the fate of friends still inside. 
·'I have a roommate and a 
couple of good friends in 
there," one worried Notre 
Dame student said as he stood 
in the cold evening air. 
·'I had just gone out for a 
breath of'air,'' another student 
said. "and when I got back, the 
(police) had the doors blocked. 
A couple of my friends are still 
in there." 
The crowd outside, at one point estimated at between 150-200 people, at times be­came restless, shouting catcalls at police, then chanting: "We don't need no regulation/ No more raids at Corby's "or Goose's--Hey coppers leave us kids alone'' to the rhythm of the title cut of Pink Floyd's album, 
The Wall. 
At one point, there was some talk among members of the mob, suggesting that the crowd rush police lines if students 
were taken away in an attempt to free them. 
It was perhaps because of this that authorities amassed a large array of equipment at the scene. Groups offolice blocked the doorways o the bar as 
[COntinued on page 4] 


Registrar proposes n.oon_ hour classes 
by Clare Padgett 

Noon hour classes may be the answer to overcrowded dining halls at lunchtime, according to Registrar Richard Sullivan. "We already have a noontime slot in the schedule, which has been primarily for TA's seminar classes,'' Sullivan said. By scheduling classes at this time beginning in Fall 1980, "we can utilize this time slot to its fullest,'' he added. 
The only possible alternative to this proposal would be an extension of dining hall hours. The value of such a proposal, which would have the dining halls remain open from 10 a.m. until 3 p.m., is questionable, according to Fr. ;ohn VanWolvear. "Even i the hours were 10 to 3, the dining hall would still be crowded at noon, when classes let out," he said. 
Incoming Freshmen will be 
Only motelremains 
Fire ravages local Ramada Inn 
by Toni J!tanstoos 

A three-alarm fire ripped through the Ramada Inn on Route 31 North yesterday morning, according to the Ramada's catering manager, leaving "just the motel standing." All the banquet rooms, dining areas, kitchen, and the lobby were destroyed. The fire started around 11 a.m. and although it was considered under control at 1 p.m., there were firemen still at the sire until late evening. The fire originated in the kitchen, and according to Fire Chief Lindzy the cause was a defective deep fat fryer which ignited the grease. A fire of this type could have been easily contained, yet the motel's automatic fire extinguisher over the cooking hood also malfunctioned. Thus the grease fire was allowed to spread. Lindzy. could give no reason for the non-working extinguisher. "Safety 
procedures require them to be checked every SIX months, and the Ramada Inn's extinguisher was approved last November," he said. 
However, another crippling factor in fi~hting the fire was the motel's non-functioning sprinkler system. The management was aware of this and the system was in the process of being corrected. Consequently, it was discon­nected when the blaze broke out. Lindzy emphasized the seriousness of such a malfunct­ion. A sprinkler system is our main method of containing a fire and extinguishing it quickly," he stated. 
The motel had to be totally evacuated, forcing other area motels to accomodate the Ramada's guests. One woman was overcome by smoke inhalation and was treated at the scene_ There were on other injuries. 
The night clerk at Ramada said the motel will be closed for just Sunday night. Any reservations will be .accomodated after Sunday, however , just for sleeping purposes for awhile since the resturant was damaged so extensively. 
The manager was /leased at how well the evacuation proceede . "We have 157 rooms with two or three people to a room all occupied at the time the fire started and no one was really hurt," she said. Whe asked about the extent of the damage in terms of dollars, she replied, "We can't tell now; we're still digging out and trying to clean up the water.'' 
the students most affected by the installation of noon-hour classes. These will be worked into the students' progams by Freshman Year of Studies, which schedules all freshmen classes. Some upperclassmen will attend the 12 o'clock class­es, but not to the extent of the freshmen. 
Lone advantage to the noon­hour classes is that students may finish classes earlier in the day by utilizing the additional time slot in which to schedule classes. Also, classrooms once empty during the noon-hour time slot can be used by classes which were crowded into smaller rooms earlier or later in the day because no other rooms were available. 
The dining hall hours would be extended to accomodate the students who wish to eat lunch before or after their noon-hour class. ''The campus tradition of eating lunch at noon'', said Sullivan, "exists only because that is when the dining hall is open. With longer dining hall hours, the option of eating earlier or later will be available to the students.'' 

Republicans denounce Bush after debate 
CONCORD N.H. (AP) -After a debate that almost didn't happen, the Republicans who weren't allowed to take part spent the last hours before the New Hampshire primary de­nouncing George Bush. 
Sen. Bob Dole of Kansas, one of the seven Republicans on Tuesday's ballot, fueled the controversy yesterday, declar­ing that Bush "treated us like dirt under his feet. ' ' 
Sen. Howard Baker of Tennessee called it the "the rawest political act I've ever seen... exclusionary politics .. . bad judgement ... inexcusable .. . a lockout." 
"He was the heavy," Baker said on NBC's "Meet the Press." 
And Rep. John Anderson of Illinois, one of the frustrated four, said Bush "shot himself in the leg." 
Ronald Reagan, who finally got the face-to-face debate with Bush that he asked and paid for, called the event "kind of a fiasco." 
The Saturday night debate, before a restive, prone-to-boo crowd of 2, 500 persons in the Nashua High School gymna­sium, was enlivened at the start when the four uninvited debaters Dole, Baker, Anderson and Rep. Philip Crane of Illinois -showed up. 
They stood awkwardly behind Reagan, Bush and the moder­ator while Reagan tried to explain to the crowd why he had changed his mind about a two-man debate and had invit­ed the other candidates. 
''Only the Nashua Telegraph is the sponsor of this event,'' said Jon Breen, executive edit­or of the paper and moderator of the debate. When Reagan insisted on speaking, Breen ordered the microphone cut off, and the crowded booed. 
"I am paying for this micro­phone," said Reagan, referring to his campaign organization's payment of $3,500 to under~ write the debate. At this, the cheers of,Reagan's supporters rattled the gym rafters .. 
The debate, sponsored by Nashua Telegraph, had been planned as a two-man event but a few hours before it was to start, Reagan invited the other canidates to take part. of the seven, only former Gov. John Connally ofTexas was unable to 
I[(:antinued on page 2] 

-~-------------~­
News in brief 
XIII Winter Olympics close in colorfulceremony on ice 
LAKE PLACID N.Y. (AP)-The.XIII Winter !JI,y~ics came ro a colorful close in a ceremony 10 Lake Placid s Ice arena last night in which Lord Killanin, president of the International Olympic Committee, appealed for sport to be the leader in avoiding what he called "the h.o!oca~st th:'lt may wt·ll be upon us." In a departure from rradmon 10 wh~ch the IOC head from Ireland merely makes a statement closmg the G.11nes, Killanin made an impromptu speech that appeared w address President Carter's demand that the United States pull out of the Moscow Olympics this. summer. ."These G.11nes proved that we can do .somethmg to contnbute to g•~<>d in the world whatever our differences may be. Ifwe can all~:ome rogether, it will be for a better world and p~~h~ps ~e ~.:<tn avoid the holocaust which may well be upon us, KJllamn -;.tid. 
Air Force launches missile 
aftertwo postponements 

VANDENBERG AIR FORCE BASE Calif. (AP) -An Air For~:c Minuteman II intercontinental ballistic missile has been 
successfully launched, an Air Force spokesman said. The spokesman, Sgt. Jack Holason, said the missile launch had bet·n postponed twice: before, because ~f weather and technicjl problems. The launch Saturday. mg~t ~as ~y the missilc4!:ombat crew from the 341st Strategic Missile Wmg of Maelstrom Air Force Base, Mont., and was described as one of a series of test launches tb determine the check of the Minuteman weapons system. 
Israel liftspress credentials ,of CBSNews reporter Raviv 
JERUSALEM (AP)-Israel lifted the press credentials of CBS· News reporter Dan Raviv yesterday, accusing him of violating military censorship with his report last week that Israel had exploded a nuclea~ ~omb with the. aid of So~th Africa. Israel's Defense Mm1ster Ezer We1zman demed Raviv's report last Thursday t~at Israel tested a bomb ?ff South Africa's Atlantic coast m September. South Afnca also denied the report and Carter administration officials said they had no evidence to substantiate it. 
YoutHs stage attack on Soviet airline office in Paris 
PARIS (AP) -About 30 young men staged a two-minute attack yesterday on the Sovi~t airline f\.eroflot's office here, breaking windows, smashmg furniture a~d comp~~er consoles and hurling firebombs into ~he debns, al_lt~?ntles said. Police in Paris said no group cla1med respons1bii~ty for the attack. The letters "COM" were painted on a wmdow but their significance was not known. 
Weather 

Becoming bitterly. cold with snow squa~ls t~day. Highs in the upper 20's, wtth temperatures f;;tlhng mto the upper teens by afternoon. Partly cloud\' with a chance of.sno.w tonight. Lows zero to five. Sunny and cold Tuesday. H1gh m the low 20's. 

, 

to am-3:30pm MOCK STOCK MARKET sponsored by the tinance club. LOBBY OF OLD BUSINESS BUILDING. 
1-3 pm ART DISPLAY ''works on paper,'' sponsored by the university of dallas. ISIS GALLERY. 
6:45pm ROSARY daily at the GROTTO. 

7 pm LECTURE,DIS<;=USSION,REC~f>!IO~ "wo.~en. ic law night '' speakers w1ll be prof. patncJa o hara, VISintmg assoc. pr~f. at nd law school; carmen piasecki, attorney from south bend; and three women from nd law caucus. sponsored by pre-law society. HAYES-HEALY AUD. 
10 pm MEETING students united for responsible energy, (sure). BASEMENT OF LAFORTUNE. 
' .•
-• ..,. • .. • 9. ' ... 
r 

-. -. ~ .. .·. ·. : ·~ :.~ ' .
~ 
• .. ~ " + • 9/ "' .. • • 

Monday, February 25, 1980 -page 2 
Mock Stock Market opens 
The Annual Mock Stock Mar­a$100 first prize donated by
ket, sponsored by the Notre Thomson, McKinnon Securites, 
Dame Finance Club, opened Inc. of South Bend. Prizes will today at 10 a.m. All students be awarded to those accounts and faculty of Notre Dame and which earn the most money.Saint Mary's can open a 
The Mock Stock Market booth is located in the lobby of the old business building. It will be open from 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. through March 26. 
$10,000 account for $1 and invest in any common stocks listed on the New York or American Stock Exchanges. 
• • • Bush 
The purpose of this program is 
familiarize participants with the mechanics of stock investment. Investors will be kept up to date on the latest prices of the stocks as they are actually being traded. 
Investors are eligible for five prize?' totalling $215, including 

[.-ontinued from page I) 
make it. 
Attempts were made to get Bush and the newspaper to agree to the open format. Bush said he would show up no natter who was there, but the news-
Solari presents platform for 0-C Commissioner 
EDITOR'S NOTE: In Friday's edition of The Observer, john Solan''s name was inadvertently omitted from the article on the Off-Campus Commission elec­tions being heldtoday. Solan· is one of three candidates vying for the position of OC Commis­sioner, along with Mark Kelley and joe Lohmuller. The Observer regrets the omission. Following is the omittedportion ofthe article. 
John Solari, a junior from Zahm hall who is running for o -c commissioner, noted that the 1,050 o-c residents compose a larger portion of Notre Dame students than any dorms do. ''These people lack representa­tion," said Solari. 
Solari emphasized the impor­tance of the commissioner's role as a liason between o-c residents and the administra­tion. "I'd like to increase communication for o-c resi­dents,'' said Solari. 
He also mentioned security 
~The Observer_ 
Night Editor: John Smith Asst. Nt$ht Editor: M. Teri "29" M1chielutti Copy EJitor: Lynn Daley News Editor: Margie Brassil 
Editorial  Layout:  Greg  
Hedges  
Features  Layout:  Kate  
Farrell  
Sports  Layout:  Tom  

Schuster 
EMTs: Kim ''You owe me a big one, Mike!'' Convey, and Smindy ''Boy do you owe me 
a big one, Kim" Grillot 
Proofreader: Rick Freedman ND Day Editor: Bob 
Bernoski SMC Day Editor: Peggy Schneeman Ad Design: Dave Wood, Anne Fink Photographer: Phil Johnson! Guest Appearances: Mike "Soon to be expelled" Ortman, Mark Perry, Lefty, Beth, The Laundry Lady 
The Observer ]USPS • 920] Ia published Monday through Friday n­cept during exam and YICIIiiR perilds. The Observer is publisllld by 1111 students If Notn D11111 IIIII Slllll Mary's Cllllgl. SublcttpliiM lillY Ill purdlaud ,., S2ll per yur 11• per U~N~ttrl from The ObserVer, 1'.0. bft Q, Nllrl baiM,IIIdlana 4llilil. s-ci clau "=f paid, ltlln 011111. I• diana . 
The Observer Is a IMIIIIIIr II 1111 
l AIIICiatld Prla. All tijNIIIIIclllll rlgllb 11'1 l'lllfYid. 
• 

problems. Solari su~gested that an o-c escort serv1ce sys­tem be implemented. Locks and alarms might also be bought in a large quantity by o-c students, added Solari, at a reduced rate. 
paper refused. 
''I accepted the challenge that was given by Ronald Reagan on his terms and fulfilled my obligations," Bush said. "I wouldn't have done it if I didn't think it was appropriate." 
Breen Said yesterday the canidates' ire at Bush was misdirected, because Bush had nothing to do with the news­papers refusal to c'hange the rules. 
''Mr. Bush' representatives, in fact, made a point of inform­ing the telegraph that if we chose to change the format, their candidate would have no­objection whatsoever, that he was there at the invitation of the newspaper and would abide by whatever the paper de­cided," Breen said. 
YourFuture 


Is Our 
Future 
Guy F. Atkinson Co. is one of the world's largest construction firms with an outstanding record of achievement and a reputation for integrity that is second to none. 
The professional development <;>f our employees has been the foundation of our success. Many of the management people who have been responsible for that success were employed through our college relations program. 
If you're ready for challenge and intend to develop to your maximum potential, come and talk with us. We will be interviewing Seniors who will receive their BS degree-s only this fall, for career positions in these areas: 
Civil Engineering Mechanical Engineering Business Management 
March 3, 1980 

G 
Contact your placement center for infor­-mation and a personal appointment. 
itkiO;~·;. 
To the students of Notre Dame: In solidarity with Bishop William McManus 
and the church of South Bend-Fort Wayne, we campus ministers ~rge you to vote "YES" on the F.l.O.C. -sponsored ban on Campbell and Ubby products at the University. 
an 
Bill Toohey, CSC JohnJ. Fitzgerald, CSC Sarah M.luna Joe McTaggart, CSC campus Austin H. Fleming miniStry Sr.1Jane Pitz, CSJ. 
The Observer 

Fr. VunWolear is pictured here ..Js he delivered the sermon at tiJt' Mass for Junior Parents on S.tl!lrday evening. [photo by Clm.1 Barlock] 

O'Shag lounge 
AL-CAP discusses idea 
By Kelli Flint StaffReporter 

Adding a faculty-student lounge on the third floor of O'Shaughnessy was one of the ideas proposed at a discussion last Thursday sponsored by the Arts and Letters Committee in Academic Progress (AL-CAP). 
According to Tom Jemielity, chairman of the committee, the AL-CAP is an extension of the Dean's office. "The AL-CAP is a vehicle for encouraging and supporting students interested in furthering the intellectual life of college ways that couldn't be handled by any one depart­ment," Jemielity said. "We're more c~~legewide than depart­mental. 
About rwelve students attend­ed the discussion, which was held in O'Shaughnessy Hall. "We expected 20, but there were other required discussions at the same time as ours: . 
according to Terry Keeley, chairman of the Student Co­ordinating Committee of the CAP. 
Students who attended the meeting critiqued and altered the ideas presented by the committee at the meeting. ''A nucleus of about 22 students worked on the ideas presented at the meeting, "Keeley said. ''Through these and other sug­gested changes, we hope to reorganize the AL-CAP.'' 
Keeley will meet with the Dean of the College of Arts and Letters on Thursday to request a faculty-student lounge in O'Shaughnessy. The proposed lounge would be open from 3:30-5 p.m. during the week. 
"We feel that the lounge is 

needed as a place for counsel­
ling and discussion,'' Keeley 
said. "It would be a place for 
students and teachers to gather 
to discuss issues and have 
coffee. Students need a place 
other than the hallways to talk 
to their professors." 
The institution of a new AL­CAP course was also proposed at the meeting. "The course would be similar to the directed reading course now existant, except with group instead of individual projects,'' Keeley said. 
Publication of a new journal 
was another idea discussed at 
the meeting. "The journal · 
would include topics of stu­
dents' own interestS," Keeley said. "Itwould be connected to 
the AL-CAP course in that writings by students in the course would be published.'' 

The journal would feature such topics as literary criticism, poe­try, politics, and philosophy. 
''There are many blockades ahead for the journal, Keeley said. ''We face major problems 

infunding and circulation. Our commtttee is investigating jour­nals established by other uni­
versities to gather ideas for format.'' ''The meeting was very use­

ful, although there was a small turnout,'' according to Mary Hayes, a senior in the AL-CAP. 
''The people who were able to attend the meeting were inter­ested in revitalizing the AL­

CAP and the Arts and Letters College.'' 
Monday, February 25, 1980 -page 3 
ND Provost O'Meara conunents on Placetnent Bureau problems 
by Betsie Boland 

"It is ridiculous that Notre Dame students should have to spend the night in the Admin­istration Building in order to get interviews with potential employers,'' Notre Dame Pro­vost Timothy O'Meara said. Lines of students waiting to sign up for interviews have been forming late Sunday nights outside the Placement Bureau office, with up to 100 or I)0 students waiting when the office opens Monday morning. According to O'Meara, the tirst come-first served interview policy is the most equitable to the students, but the system cannot adequately handle the demand. The potential employ­ers dictate the number of 
interviewsavailable by the num­
ber of representatives they 
send. 
·'The enterprising students 
are forced to spend the night, or 
get up very early, in order to 
guarantee an interview with the 
most desirable companies. It's 
not our fault, but this situation 
shouldn't even have to happen 
to Notre Dame students,'' 
0' Meara said. 
fhe greatest pressure for 
these interviews seems to be 
among Arts and Letters majors. 
''The top business executives 
say they are looking for stu­
dents majoring in the human­
ities, but people in the field 
hiring look for people already 
trained. There is a gap in 
communication from the top to 
the field," O'Meara said. 
Although liberal arts students 
are more adaptable their mar­
ker is limited because of this 
selectivity by those hiring, 0'­
Meara stated. "That's why the 
problem is so difficult-it is not 
internal, not under our con­
trol,' ' he added. 
According to Richard Wille­
min, director of the Placement 
Bureau, over 500 potential em­
ployers will come to campus 
Soviet troops block access to bridges in Afghanistan 
NEW DELHI; India (AP) ­Soviet troops have blocked ac­cess to bridges over the river through Kabul, splittin~ the Afghan capital in rwo 10 an apparent attempt to protect the Soviet Embassy and a Russian housing area after three days of street violence, reports from Kabul said yesterday. 
In Bono, West Germany, a 
magazine said Prestdent Carter 
asked former Chancellor Willy 
Brandt on Feb. 15 to act as a 
mediator between the Soviet 
Union and the West in the 
Afghan crisis. 
There was no immediate 
comment on the report in Der 
Spiegel from either Brandt or 
U.S. officials. But a spokesman for Brandt's 
Social Democratic Party, which the Nobel Peace Prize winner still heads, said the report contained material that was "more speculative than helpful 
or useful. " 
Afghan sources here said 
Vice President Sultan Ali Kish­
tmano, earlier reported wound­
ed in a Kabul shooting incident 
Feb. 7, died following unsuc­
cessful medical treatment in 
Moscow. The dllte of his death 
was not known. 
Afghanistan's Marxist gov­ernment has not confirmed the death of Kishtmaod, consider­ed a strong backer of President Babrak Karma!. But govern­ment-run newspapers earlier reported Kistmand, an econo­mist-turned-politician, had gone to the Soviet Union for an undisclosed medical problem. 

The apparent aim in blocking access to bridges across the Kabul River was to increase security around the Soviet Embassy, the modern housing complex where many Russians live, the strategic BaJa Hissar 
[, untinued on page 8] 

Republicans to sponsor Mock Forums 
The Notre Dame Mock Repub­lican Convention will sponsor two Presidential Forums for all interested students. The first 
one will be tomorrow in Carroll Hall at Saint Mary's. The second will be on Thursday in the Notre Dame Library 'Audi­torium. The starting time will be 7 pm at both locations. State chairmen and delegates are urged to attend. · 
this year. Limited representa­tives and a ceiling of rwelve students per interviewer per day restricts available spots and greatly reduces the students' chance of interviewing with the first-choice companies. 
"We want to offer interviews to the greatest number of students possible ... and the best way we have found is with the present sign-up limit of rwo employers per student on Mon­day, and subject to availability, sign up the rest of the week,'' Willemin said. 
Willemio does not foresee any major changes of policy be­cause of the equitability of the present system and the relative success Notre Dame's bureau. 
''What  we  provide  for  the  
students  is  an  on  campus  
employment  agency-we  save  

them time and energy in the long run,'' he said: The students waiting in line recog­nize the fairness of the system, and do not complain about it because they are "hungry e­nough and enterprising enough to go to this length to get a job," Willemin claimed. 
A .Priority sys.tem as a.~ alter­native would mvolve moun­tains ofpaperwork'', according to Willemin, and although a lottery would eliminate the lines, it would hardly be fair. "We feel the system is ade­quate, and I do not see how it could be changed and still be as fair,'' he said. ­
Saint Mary's has a fraction of graduates that Notre Dame does-450 as compared to ap­proximately 2000-and, therefore is not faced with a similar crush for jobs. "Even students who dislike the system agree that it's fair", Willemin said. 
0'Meara, however, hopes that a viable, workable alternative can be implemented for the next school year. "We' II discuss it with our department heads and the trustees. I don't have a solution right now, but our students should not be subjected to this in order to gain interviews with the highly desirable firms,'' he said. 

Ir•·-----------------------~
1 I 

I I 
I I 
I I
I I
Italian ·American Foods 
I 1 • $l00 0FFOlf OUR : i 
I :STUFDD PIZZA! : I1 
I WE'RE BACK I
I and looking forward to serving you again I II This·C:oupon is good only on Tuesday, 
1

1 Wednesday, or Thursday thru March 6. I 1Tue·-sat4-11 pm Spring& 13thinMishaw::~kal 
--------------------------~ 
mitt Nil Jn-&w.~&nddg 
Jns~ 
WOMEN 
IN LAW NIG 
&peakmt tnclubt: 
Prot.Patrlcla O'Hara 
VISinNG ASSOCIATE PROF. AT NO LAW SCHOOL 
Carmen Piasecki 
ATTORNEY FROM SOUTH BEND 
ND Law Students 

IIIJm? ilottbag, ltlrbruarg 25tlt IIIJur? Jlaurs-llhalu aubitortum mtmt? 7: on pm lttctpthtn tn fnllnw ! 



The Observer Monday, February 25, 1980 -page 4 
, ~ ,
' 
, Junior 
r 
Parents Weekend 
f•o;,.;;· P.l!"L'flls lt"eekend was a 
r. '" ,111g Sllc.-ess from anyone's wiew­/' ,,.,1/. /3;// Cun·t~l!,"" dances with Anne /1. J,tog/; [.11 lt~/i. I Currigan was the ,.;,/, 1'111.111 u/ Fnil.1_y night's cocktat! /'.''/) !.~tid <1/ Slt~f~c.m Ct!nler [abot'e.] /·'· If. ,/}Jog/1 [.11 nght] addressed ,,,,.<'it/, .wJ sltldt~n!s Saturday even­''l<: .;: t/,e Ph·.,tdt!nl '.1 Dinner at the .tn:. ~··/~r;/o\ b~· Clms Bt~rlockl 
an CABIN FEVER m 
CC!rt)PUS Spend awee~end of prayer and ministry relaxation this Friday through Sunday at ahome on lake Michigan. 
Father David Burrell, chairman of the TheolotrZv Department, is conducting aCampus Ministry retreat for undergrads. 

Theme for the weekend: , GOD'S STORY &OUR STORY. For info: Badin CM.Office 4392 library Office 6536 
r--------._.~,_.,,_.~~.._..._.
, _________., 
, ~ r 
1980-81 SENIOR BAR 

r 
MANAGER APPLICATIONS 
Applications for the Senior Bar iVlanager 
spots will be available in Rm. 315 of the Bus. Ad. Building from Mon. the 25th to Fri. the 29th of February. 
j 
. . . b d l th
Applications will not e accepte ater an 

I 
In Tehran 

UN Com.m.ission m.eets Bani-Sadr 
(AP) -Members of the U.N. 
Commission in Tehran to inves­
tigate the opposed shah's 
regime met yesterday with 
Iranian President Abol Hassam 
Bani-Sadr in talks described as 
''extremely constructive,'' but 
several high-level Iranian offic­
ials insisted the panel's work 
was not tied to the release of 
the American hostages. 
The meeting concerned the commission's operating pro­cedure, including possible tFst­imony by the hostages. Hassan Hariat, spokesman for the rul­ing Revolutionary Council, said the panel might call as ''wit­nesses" some of the approxi­mately )0 Americans who yes­terday spent their 113th day in captivity at the U.S. Embassy in Tehran. Hariri did not elabor­ate and a commission spokes­man said the details had not been settled. 
Mansour Earhand, Iran's Ambassador to the United Nation's, said in a broadcast interview in New York, "there was no linkage between the formation of the commission and release of the hostages, if by linkage you mean a deal. Ayatollay(Ruhollah) Khomeini, who has the ultimate authority over the crisis, does not make deals.'' 
Iran's Foreign Ministry spokesman, Nasir U-Sadat Salami, told a Tehran news conference that the five com­mission members were "to investigate the shah's crimes, not to see the hostages. The rwo issues are not related at all. We emphasize that they are separate." 
Khomeini on Saturday dis­couraged American hopes for early release of the hostages decided by the new Iranian parliament to be elected in balloting March 14 and April 3. 

Militants who have been holding the Americans since Nov. 4 immediately endorsed Khomeini's decision and reiter­ated their original condition that ousted Shah Mohammed Reza Pahlavi and his wealth be returned to Iran before they free their captives. The former monarch is living in Panama. 
Iranian Foreign Minister Saofgh Ghotrzangh yesterday also backed Khomeini's posi­tion. "It is the Imam Khomeini who determines foreign policy and we in the Revolutionary Council always approve his decisions,'' the official Pars Ne'Ys Agency quoted him as saymg. 
In Washington, President Carter cautioned against "ex­
.. .Raid 

[-.J/1/IIIIIed_liwn page 1] 
t>lhcrs, including at least two K-9units, waited outside. 
.\r the raid's height, at least c1ght police vehicles littered the Notre Dame Ave--Howard St. intersection. A police van was backed up to the bar's side door, blocking the sidewalk. 
l"raffic in the area was also s1alled because police had hast­ily abandoned their vehicles at the beginning of the raid, leaving them blocking the lanes of traffic on Notre Dame Ave. 
rhe massive show of force left many people, including some police at the scene, wondering treme pessimism" regarding Khomeini's remark and said "progress is being made" to free the hostages. 
''This is a period of extreme­ly difficult negotiations. What we want is a peaceful solution to the problem ... ," Carter told reporters. "I can't give any details about what we are doing." 
After the meeting with Bani­Sadr, according to a Tehran Radio broadcast monitored in Kuwait, the commission mem­bers issued a statement ex­pressing thanks to the presi­dent for assurances of coopera­tion they received yesterday and said, "We will go ahead in carrying our our mission." 
The group earlier had said it was ''greatly en.:ouraged by the assurances of cooperation'' after meeting with Ghotbzadeh. 
r;ud. .. ,\II 11 is, is politics," one unidentified policemen re­marked to members of the cr.,wd. · · I' he chief of pollee is just worried about h1s job. There haven't been that many arrests la1<:ly and the/ressure is on_.'' 
South Ben Pol1ce Ch1ef Michael Borkowski was una­vadable for comment yester­day. 
'"We had a raid down on South Michigan the other night and they arrested prostitutes," the same officer recalled, "and that along with this, come Monday morning, it should be 

"~ ~ .... ~.Qnf]Ay, 1\'1 cb 3nJ..v-..., .... :.....-.v.•.·.·.-.·• •.••~.~!.~~~ ..~~~-~~:...§~~~ ..•:~~-~-~~.·-~:....~?.~~~~, ~~~-·~::~~!}.~~ .:,:~~~~:· ~:~~~~-..-..~: all the !~~e~r·s ~ ~-~ ·. _•• _•..• _,. _. _ 
'-H-~~~~~~~~~~~--~~~~Y*~.---------~·· 
---~-------~------------------·----~-----------­
.-\. --, 

The Observer Monday, February 25, 1980 -page 5 
SUREto meet tonight 
against nuclear energy 
by Barb Bn'dges the Down-Wind Alliance, hopes that SURE will make the college1\ newly formed group, Stu­
community more aware of the dents United for Responsible dangers of nuclear power. He Energy (SURE) will host a stressed that the Bailey plant is meeting this evening at 10 pm a direct threat to students here,in the LaFortune Basement. 

and that the proliferation of SURE is an organization which nudear power plants is a threati!:! generally opposed to the use to all cities. 

of nuclear energy, and rather, Stressing that SURE is a is trying to make people more st udem organization, Lehner is aware of alternative energy helping to organize SURE activ-SllUrces, such as solar, wind, 
ities to take place on campus on and biomass energy. Earth Day, April 21. Lehner SURE is being organized un­hopes to reach several people
der the auspices ofJoe Lehner, that day. a Notre Dame employee, with .. lf nothing else we'd like to help from Liz Gilbert, a Notre evoke a reaction, raise the 
Dame professor, and Peter awareness level, and educate 
Smith, a Saint Mary's profes­p<:ople as to alternatives,'' Leh­sor. Lehner began to drum up ner said. imerest for SURE at Activity !"he Bailey Down-Wind Alli­Ni~?.ht last fall. There are now ance will be presenting the about twenty interested stu­film, .. Powers that Be" m the dents who are researching i­S<~uth Bend public library
deas concerning alternative e­Thursday ar 7:.30 pm. The film 
nergy sources and organizing deals wtrh f1uclear power, and 
activities to make the college Lehner lflVltes any interested community more aware of the persons to attend. dangers of nuclear power. 
SURE has out of a
grown community organization in Chesterton, IN, in opposition to the proposed Bailey nuclear power plant. Construction of the plant was begun several years ago, but has been halted as the community rallied to oppose its construction. 
l"he Nuclear Regulatory Com­mi-;sion · studied the sire and cllnc luded that the plant, irs lucation its waste problems, back-up' plans, and evacuation plans are all inadequate. 
!"he Bailey Alliance was t;•lllled in the Chesterton area, and one year ago the Bailey Down-Wind Alliance was f"rmcd in South Bend, which is 50 mil<:s from the Bailey plant. l.chner, who is a member of 
Bitten.student seeks dog's 
whereabouts 
,\ search is in effect for a larg<:, light-br.uwn, _germ~n shepherd-husky that bit a Sawr Mary",.; freshman yesterday. Tlw stud<:tH was riding her bike past the Fatima Retreat House, on th<: road leading to Notre Dame, when the attack occur­<:d, ar.,und 12:45 p.m.. 
Unless the dog is found, and it-; rabies vaccinations confirm­ed. the student may have to undergo a series of painful lll)eCtiOI1S. 
!"he swdent said a grey-haired 
man, about 45, wearing a dark 
beret and raincoat, and a 
woman in a long tan coat 
seemed to be taking the dog for 
a walk. The dog was not on a 
leash. These people, or anyone 
else with possible knowledge of 
the dog's whereabouts, should 
contact SMC Security immed­
iately, at 284-4313. 
Hofman to conduct lecture 
• 

Dean Emil Hofman will conduct an ''Arts and Letters Spotlight'' lecture to~ight . at 
7: 30 p.m. in the Engmeenng Auditorium. 

Whtle all hocke~ans, and Notre Dame fans in general, wait for a decision on the uture ofInsh hockey, one has to wonder ifthere will be a 1980 'Jockey team to hang a photo ofin the A CC. 
H 1-• •
OCl\.ey cnstS ... 

Because you attend college you are eligible to receive TIME, the world's lead­ing newsweekly at the lowest indi­vidual subscription rate, just 35¢ an issue. That's BIG SAVINGS off the regular subscription rate of 59¢ an issue 
and even BIGGER SAVINGS off the $J.25 newsstand price. And it's so simple to 
subscribe-just look for the cards with TIME and its sister publications, 
Sports Illustrated, Fortune, 
•· Life, Money and People. They are available at the 
college bookstore or from your local TIME representative: 
Kevin Rochford . 121 E. Navarre · South Bend, IN 46601 
• (219) 233-5298 

antidraft article of Feb. 18. Mr. Stewart spent over rwo­

Christopher Stewart 
''It is the responsibtlity of ''maybe even professional foot­that are necessary only for Candidatescanned 
thirds of his article document­

intellectuals to speak the truth ball,'· but then rules out , even one's personal advancement 
ing several of the tragic conse­

and expose lies. '' derides, literature as not being into the oft-times barbarously 
quences of America's involve­

--Richard Drinnon .. Real Life, The Real Thing, cumpetitive world of profess­Dear Editor: ment in Vietnam. Sure it was
Serious Business.'' His words ional schools. 
wrong. Ir was a horriblel{n:ently, there have been of wisdom are indeed correct, Ironically, to get ahead means The SBP candidacies of two mistake, and most of us are well
st·,·cral telling comments made as much as they are tragic. to cut off your head, to nor think self-styled urban cowboys were 
aware of the lives lost or.th<~ut the overall quality of the This growing antagonism is not about all the things you gunned down last week when

are otherwise destroyed because of
llttdlcuual ambience at Notre limited to literature alone, missing out on as an under­student activities director Jim the errors of our nation's lea·
D.unc. Si"· ,. the source of Kazin believes, but encompass­graduate (trifles like lasting and McDonald ruled that presiden­
ders.

thcsc remarks comes from es our attitudes toward history, meaningful friendships instead tial hopeful Jim ·White was However, Mr. Stewart feelstW<l tnJt,·•uuals of proven tradition, even art. of the disposable "relation­ine_ligible to run .for offic<;­that what happened in Vietnam ;1< .tdnnic caliber, their critic-If Provost 0' Meara is right, shtps" that we forget the White was seekmg election 
equals w,ar anywh~r~. In his 

1"111'-should cause some reflect­and I believe he is, the question moment we get that degree; along with fellow Alumni soph· words, "The place 1s Irrelevant.
ton ahout the t·ut-rent state of must be asked: why are we not developing a political con­omore Randy McNally. 
Son)', bui· rhis is just not the t'• ltt«llt••nal direLtion at Notre t\•'-tl'ring intellectual curiosity sciousness, etc.) as you labor Wednesday night marked the casl'. .

D.unt·. 111 our students? Is it because long and wearily from morning first--and last--official cam­
Now, I won't go into the l't "' ''"t Timothy 0' Meara students here are just too ~ill midnite in the Library. All paign appearance for the two as 

~.:enwries-old arguments about 

, .lll'-l'd a slight furor for some itHt·llectually lethargic? Are to get ahead. they announced their decision 
how ·sometimes (no matterdunng a Senate Faculty meet­they too burdened academic­to withdraw as McDonald re­

The lack of Catholic intellect­
lww deplorable war is), it is

tllg on February 12. At this ally? Are they unwilling to ual challenge to Kazin 's ideas quested. White's brief state­nght and necessary for a coun­llllTttng. he expressed the make necessary sacrifices to and Ior technique raises anoth­ment, ill-fated to the end, was try w engage in war. Some­lulluwtng St'lll imcnts: ''We are h.:~·ume intellectually adept? Or er crucial issue: Why are marred by the sudden breaking 
wnes ugly things musr be done

lldl fu-.,tntng intellectual art· they being taught, however Catholics so pliant, so malle­of his pants zipper as he strode in order to achieve greateruu·"'"'tY 111 our students. We subtly or overtly, not to think able, so willing to listen and to the Washington Hall 
goods. A ratit)nal individual's arc gctttng them into mcdi_cal t hct r own thoughts; to mouth podium.

never disagree? Wqy are we all 
dtsgust with war should equals, h<HJI, but are we producmg 

ptous platitudes instead of chal­so petrified ofcritiquing author­"It was no intentional move Mr. Stewart's, and this rationalCatlwliL intellectuals?'' lt-ngtng accepted myths; to ity, of running agamst the to get a sympathy vote, believe 
indivtdual should resist allPnhap.., a bit more challeng­t\dlow the leader instead of grain, of doing the unthinkable me," White later explained. fn,;lish inclinations towards tng, and disconcerting, were forging new spiritual trails ~..,..J or asking the unanswerable? ''But when one thing starts 
war. Uut if reason and soundthe remarks made by the new psy"Chological insights mto going down I guess everything

Why are we such sheep, always tl11nking point towards a draft,William White professor of life'-, inexaus(lble mysteries? doing what we're told and does." 
tilc:n maybe a draft is not so

English. visittng professor titven the economic nature of seldom wondering why? . Boasting the endorsement of I IU I rage()LJS.Alfred Ka1in. In the February I Tappa Kegga, the pair cam­
this Universuy and irs constit­For God's sake, what are we so 
tssuc o! -\1 're Dume Magazine, Ul'tHs (upper cla-;s, upwardly afraid of? Making a mistake, paigned on promises to support Mr. Stcwart fcels that any talkthe renowned CUNY author mohtle), a big reason why many being thought ill of, exposing draft registration ''as long as ~lf war of a draft retlecrs.tnd litet ;11, ..:ritic made some of 1hc sllldents don't opt for the· Saint Mary's College ex­
our ve-neer of niceness to show 
"(·s..:alating military madness

revealtng ·comments about .. tilt' intellectual life" is be­:1 doubtingside, a darker side, a emption is maintained'' and to and rampant nationalism." The
literature's decline, American Cill'-l' they are too comfortable, radical side:' Perish the tiHlught' improve the social life at Notre prospect of a draft, though,culture and his hiatus to Notre too nch. and wu self-absorbed. Dame. McNally, not a cowboy
If it is not careful in culuvating d11es not reflect such a "mania.Dame Juring the '78-79 year. In ot hcr words, they don't need .1 ·trul:· vibrant, supportive and although actually born in One mw·.t agree thar the pussi­:\bout Notre Dame students, he tu tbwk much about inrellectual Texas, now plans to find a new
g('tlUIIll' intl'llectual armos­btlil~' of unavoidable military-.;aid: ''I did not encounter matters, because "what's to social life while studying in
pill't"c f11r its students, Notre actin in the future dots exist.
t·twugh intellectual Catholicism think about?" I've got what I Japan next year. "With the
O.unt· mit;ht soon be categoriz­I~vcn if war does not result, it is 
at Nurre Dame. Not a single need: I know what I want and I new importance of foreign
l'd a-.. a sclwol which smacks of vttal that thl' U.S. maintain its
-,tudctlt I!L't!T pointed out to me, kthlW where I'm going. What affairs in American politics,"
phdt.,lllllsm. Having the brag­military strength. This can be
from a r .. '·olir point of view, he sighs, "I guess it's rime that
else i,., there?" They fail to g111g nglus to being the "great­seen by looking at the presentthe deficiencies of my lectures realize that coo much t'~t Catholic university in the I had a few." w<~rld situation sensiblv and
and classr uom discussion·' In addition to circulating
ma1t'l tal comfort assassinates w11rld" is inanl' if the dearth pragmatically. · (emphasis mine' western "wanted" posters, the
tht· m111d, proscribes LIL.!l<.ll)', of Carh()lic intellectual students We are left, then, with the
0 ·Meara· s rc marks are both pair promised a "Nude Deal"
-.;ttllcs internal change. persi!'· at its present wretched '-Jlll'Stion of when the U.S.
laudable and courageous given an issues poster featuring
II hall· of each incoming class state.What passes at present as tn should ever become involvedthe tendency ut <Ill" Adminis­two scantily-clad card sharks.
'" destgnated pre-rued or pre­"intellectual environment" is, mdttarily. At what point should
tration to downplay, even deny, Wednesday night, it looked like
professional (as a former head at best, achievement-oriented American lives be sauificed? I 
sume of the very real education­the last card had been dealt.
,,f P-,ychul"gical Services mediocrity aspiring to profes­hope and feel that in our
al tlaws extant at Notre Dame. Says White: ''I think the nude
rn"unted to me), that says a sional mediocrity. For too uJUntry, the pressure againstIn one respect, his comments mlluthful already, doesn't it? If many Domers and Administra­deal got a raw deal. " military action will be great
are nothing short of amazing, if 

evt·t :· <~nc at I H years of age has tors, money alone is the Randy McNally ennugh su that this rime, we 
unc considers the emphasis 

tiJt'll qTs glued on Harvard ultimate goal, not personal wun't act unless it is of definite
placed on the supposedly l..tw, MedColumbia or transformation through learn­necc:ssity. Let us press our ngorous academic nature of Whartlln School of Business, ing and intellectual acumen. k:aders for sensible, humanistic

ln. response
Notre Dame (how tough it is to then they must be aware of the decisions, but ar the same time,

If l>o11 rgeois· careerism, the
get in here; how we graduate 99 

fcmctous competition requisite let us not limit our thoughts
wllat· s in it for me"
percent of our student-athletes, tt• get into such esteemed syndrome, is the only real todraft stmply tn "War is bad.''

crc.). But if Notre Dame's lofty professional schools. There­

educational benefit ofa four year
image rests so strategically on !\ •re, one's whole emphasis l).,.a . 'tor:

hitch at ole' Notre Dame, then
its inttlle..:tual pillars (as well as 

wlule an undergraduate is not the life of the inind, the 1feel compelled to respo~d to 
a ....,., t·-.;-;ful football season), 

tu le..Jrn, hut to earn: grades, intellectual life, will have to be Chri~tober Stewart's anuwar/ Mzke Moran 
ye "" econd ranking adminis­' .
a wards, ;.tnd particular relation­
pursued elsewhere in the
tr;.ttor maintains serious 

ships with professors and peers future. 
administration of either institution. 
Editorial Board and Department Managers 
The news is reported as accurately and
-TheObserver._ 

as objectively as possible. Editorials Editor-in-chief ........ Rosemary Mills Sports Editor ..................Mark Perry represent the opimon of a majority of Managing Editor.......... Diane Wilson Features Editor ... .. Kathleen Connelly &x Q Notre Dame, IN 46.5.5~ the Editorial Board. Commentaries, Editorial Edttor ..............Ann Gales Photo Editor ..............Doug Christian opinions and letters are the views of Senior Copy Editor ......... M. Onufrak The Observer is an independent their authors. Column space is avail­Execuh"ve News Etiitor ...... Mike Lewis Business Manager ........Steve Odland 
newspaper. published by the students able to all members of the community, News Editor..... ..............Mark Rust Production Manager ...... John McGrath 
ofthe University of Notre Dame du lac and the free expression of varying News Editor ........ ..~ ......Mike Shields Advertising Manager. Mike HoI singer 
and Saint Mary's College. It does not opinions on campus, through letters, is SMC News Editor........Margic Brassil Controller..................Kevin Manion 
nccessari.Jy rdlect the policies of the encouraged_. Circulation Ma11ager......Greg Hedges
•. ''' ,. •, ...... : _... "";_ ~ t 
. 




Features Monday, February 25, 1980 -page 7  
What not to give up for Lent Fr. Bill Toohey monk on a remote island. The author things get very visible. Tragically,Whatever else you. may. have us; we feel more comfortable with a asked the monk, "Do you still wrestle resolved to do ~or Lent (ltke gtvmg up God who stays in the sky, who is most pseudo believers think they can find a with the devil, Fr. Makarios?" "Notcandy or srudymg or booze or reading transcendent, who is remote and refuge in faith against the realitjes of any longer, my child. I have grown the call to serve others.Molarity or ~tracking ·lour room­distant. old and the devil has grown old with · Theheart trip, or faith as flight, is amare), you dtd well 1 you were The problem comes when we begin me. He doesn't have the strength. I fractionalized and truncated Chris-.determined NOT to give up the most to grasp what kind of a response God now wrestle with God.'' ''With tianity, the sort of thing one sees1mporrant thing--your continuing desires from us. In reaction to His God,·' Kazantzakis exclaimed with represented by those charlatan tele­quest to know Christ Jesus. presence of love, we may revere Him, astonishment. ''And you hope torespect Him, admire Him. But none vision preachers who, while main­That's a tricky task, but like all win?'' "No," the monk answered. "Iof that gets at the heart of the matter; taining an infectious smile, spewi!nportant challenges, worth the ef­hope to lose! '' for he ts asking for something quite forth their weekly platitudes. Theirfort. We frequently find ourselves different. The question (as Peter When I first read that story, I output is a commercial mixture ofbetween a rock and a hard place, found out) is:"Do you love Me?" God though how revealing it was of my Reader's Digest and 7-up. Every­however, and it is not easy to avoid own situation: I have been fightingwants a return of love from us, and thing is so •well orchestrated: therhe two dangers: a head trip or a· the type of love that is marked by a Gud for a long time--fighting Him unctuous voice, banks of flowers inheart trip. desire that seeks union with the off! It's time to lose! the background, young, vigorous, The first challenge is to fight beloved. Jesus refers to Himself as On the other hand, the successful perfectly-groomed singers, the local against a kind of "knowin~" Christ avoidance of the head trip could lead Bridegroom, seeking intimate union telephone number superimposed on .Jesus that is mostly knowmg about us to the opposite extreme--the heartwith His bride, the church. the bottom of the screen, soliciting Him. A lot of/eople turn faith into a trip. Once you "know Jesus, youWe can immediately see what a "tax-deductible gifts of love," as head trip, an fail to note the crucial maybe tempted to turn in on self.problem this causes. In our culture, Anita Bryant calls them. ddlerence between intellectual infor­It's the basic mistake of manyfor example, our unfortunate Anglo­It becomes crucial to remember thatmal ion and spiritual formation. It is fundamentalists, who believe thatSaxon fundamentalist heritage makes yve don't "come over to Jesus" and one thing to know facts; it is quite "corning over to Jesus" relievesit difficult for us to accept adult-to­JUSt stop there. If we "know" Him in another to live a totally different kind them from involvement in service inadult love in our spirituality. Conse­any real sense, He will inform us thatof life because of a transforming the world.quently, we may refuse God's invita­we cannot join ourselves to the God of encounter with the living God. There is such a thing as a retreat totion to spiritual adventure. We may the universe and expect that to be aOf course, confrontation with this the heart that is the mockery of allpas:; up His promise: ''And you shall cozy, private matter.authentic God c<.:n be terrifying. true religion. Such a retreat is aknuw the Lord." We are invited toIcsus reveals a God who is not travesty of faith. It is faith as flight. Since we are tempted, then, to bebe in His company, to be joined in ·confined in churches, in sacraments, The temptation faces all of us. We discouraged in finding the real Jesusdiscipleship that lasts forever ....but 111 the words of preachers or the highy hear that faith has to do with spirit or apathetic in allowing ourselves towe may be chicken. places of heaven. He is the lover of be moved to social action, perhapsThe famous Greek novelist, Nikos and soul; it is supposed to put us in persons, eager to dwell in their the most important thing for Lent isKazanzakis, tells a true story of the tuuch with invisible forces. Well, hearts. This is threatening to many of to give up giving up! <Jccasion when hf' visited a ~aintly froru there it is a short step to where  
A Dialogue "With Tyranny Beth Healy ing on the Czechoslovakian case."Drink up there boy ... I take my hat that the government takes care of its-.. death penalty. International adop­Actors Coiner and Wilmott stateoff to you ... You be careful, you artists as long as they "behave ti<~n groups numbering between that they have enjoyed the past twobear? ... If there was anybody else themselves." The government pro­fifteen· and twenty people, are as­and one half months work on ''Thebestdes me sitting in my place you vides low rent, choice apartments, signed cases. When a group adopts Conversation" and director Pat Fan­would,~ 't be working here, I'll tell you paid vacations and travel abroad for the case, the members write letters ning reveals that the production willthat .. the artists. However, if the artist and petition the dissident's govern­have a somewhat extended showing.... and so continues a discussion overtly reveals any anti-party line ment. "The Conversation" will also bebetween a loading dock worker, attitudes, the government revokes A British lawyer, who wanted to such fringe benefits. presented at the Unitarian Church onplayed by John Wilmott, and his intervene for people on behalf of Marc~ 9 and possibly at Vegetableforeman, played by Miles Coiner. The final break comes when the human rights, founded Amnesty Buddtes. Amnesty International"The Conversation", directed by Pat artist loses membership in the Wri­International in 1960. The organiza­hopes to gain student support for theFanning will be presented tomorrow ters' Union and will not be published tion, headquartered in Lcndon, blos­Czechoslovakians whose lives lackat 8 p.m. in Washington Hall. "The by the government-owned presses. somed after receiving the Noble fundamental human rights, as seenConversation" is an intimate, entic­Thus, underground presses develop Peace Prize in 1970 and according to 111 Vaclav Havel's "The Conversa­ing drama about a former writer's for the alienated artists, who must Murphy, a sizeable percentage of tion.''choice between accepting a "deal" tind other jobs to supplement their European population belongs to Am­from his brewery foreman or reject­writing. Coiner also states that when nesty International. ing the propos;tion on the basis of an artist leaves his native country, he The Notre Dame campus chapter pnnciple. relinquishes all ties with the lan­began about four years ago and SJ?eech and Drama professor, Miles guage. In writing, the artist must be presently involves approximately Just Jazz Cotner, remarks, "The Conversation in rune with the rhythm and sound of thirty people. The Notre Dame seems to be fairly autobiographical the language. Leaving the country group, along with ten other Amnesty Wednesday, February 27 atun the surface." Wntten by "forces writers into limbo" and International groups, was assigned Century Center, Conventioninternational playwright, Vaclav alienates them from the key to their the Czechoslovakian case. Murphy Hall B, ] erry Lackey will direct Havel, the play largely reflects artistry-the language. Vaclav Haval states that the eleven dissidents the South Bend ] azz Ensemble­Havel's experiences prior to his refused to leave Czechoslovakia and belong to the Charter 77 Movement; -in a concert featuring the worksOcrober 1979 arrest. Last year, the now awaits his four year sentence's which monitors the Czech compli­termination. of Duke Ellington, ChuckCzechoslovakian police approached ances to the Helsinki Accords as well Mangione, and Henry Mancini.Havel with a passport and visa to as the V.O.N.S., the Committee forHowever, for Havel and the ten leave his homeland. Vaclav Havel the Defense of Unjustly Prosecuted.other dissidents Amnesty Interna­Donna and Jerry Flint, two refused. In October, the Czechoslo­Refering to the case, Murphy statestional holds some hope. Sponsoring local ·dancers and choreo­vakian police arrested Havel along that all seven imprisoned dissidents"The Conversation", Notre Dame's graphers, will perform a jazz with ten other Czechs and charged appealed their cases and lost. One ofchapter of Amnesty International ballet to a Ladd Mcintosh J?lece them with subversion. The Czecho­the two women received a suspendedwants to awaken students to such "Un Collage Du GarahJ au slovakian government speedily tried sentence because of he'" younghuman rights violations. John Mur-. Fromage." seven of the eleven dissentients and children. The other jailed woman,phy, coordinator of Amnesty Interna­Also to be highlighted aresentenced them to 2 1/2 to 41h years in about age fifty, suffers from poortional on campus, explains that such works as Duke Ellington'sprison. The playwright, Havel now health. The four other arrestedAmnesty International focuses on "Satin Doll," "Main Squeeze"serves his four year sentence. dissidents were released pendingthree types of human rights viola­by Chuck Mangione and "BrassResponding to Havel's refusal to further charges.tions: the release of prisoners of on Ivory" by Henry Mancini.leave Czechoslovakia, Professor Coi­Amnesty International obtainedconscious people imprisoned for relig­ner explains the plight of artists in "The Conversation" from the New Admission is $2; startingIous, racial or political reasons; toCommunist countries. Coiner, who York office. The play has been sent rime is 8:15p.m.abolish torture; and to abolish thestudied in Romania in 1968-69, states to other U.S. adoption ~oups work­ 

..,. 

L----------------------.1..io~-------------­

The Observer Monday, February 25, 1980 -page 8 

Cu!J.\'Irtl<:"un on the Stepan Chemistry but/ding_ is mo'l!i'ng along
~nstruction 
IJt,·e~y. fhL· snow that surrounded the area quzckly dzsappeared 1/1t.1 p.1.11 we.:kend as unseasonably warm weather hit the South
continues ... n ·nJ area. 
There's more to 
good health 
than exercise 
and eating right. 
Find out what 
you might be 
missing in Your 
Good Health. 
75<:
Available now--· 
Mar-Main Pharmacy Georgetown Pharmacy 

NO-DEPAUL «t1) PEP RALLY 

BE THERE 
I I I I I I I I I I 
TUESDAY FEB.26 

. 
STEREO CLEARANCE HOUSE HAS LOWEST STEREO 
r:~~~r:: ::llDZ RT:~~i:."~1 }89. 
Akai C•saette t • 
Our Free ~...atalog has many more deals on major brands, even lower prices on our monthly spectals sheet. Send now and find out how to buy current S7 98 list Jp's for $3 69 Stereo Clearance House Dept CH&1 1029 Jacoby St .. Johnstown. Pa 15902 Phone Quotes 814-536-1611 


~ 
Boyal Valley Ski Besort Buchanan, Michigan (616) 695-3847 
CLOSEST SKI ABEA TO RDISMC 17miles from-campus 2 QUAD CRAIB LIFTS 

ACCPIT 
7:30 

• • • Afghanistan 
[• onltnued from page 3] 
Fortress and the old Bazaar. 
One report from Kabul re­ceived in New Delhi said Kat­mal's government declared Sat­urday a special holiday. This was interpreted as a move to cover official embarrassment over the non-appearance of many government workers dur­ing the third day of the general strike. 
A rebel group in Pakistan said yesterday its guerrillas killed 150 Afghan government troops and damaged five tanks in recent clashes in the eastern provice of Nangarhar. Insur­gents lost 12 men, it said. Hezbi-Islami, a right-wing fundamentalist Moslem party, also claimed to have destroyed three Afghan Army tanks in neighboring Paktia Province. 
The claims could not be inde­
pendently confirmed. 
A Pakistani official in W aziris­
tan, near the Afghan border, 
reported the defection of 24 
Afghan militia officers and two 
former members of Parliament. 
Akbar Ahmad, the official, said the group ·crossed into Pakistan led by Afghan Maj. Gen. Ahmad Jan Masood. He quoted Masood as saying: ''The Afghans have risen against the Soviet invasion in Afghanistan as they are true Moslems and cannot tolerate foreign intervention.'' 
U. S. intelligence estimates there are some 70,000 Soviet troops inside Afghanistan, with another 30,000 across the Sov­iet border. The Kremlin inter­vened militarily in later Decem­ber to help put down the Moslem rebellion. 

PLACEMENT BUREAU 
2-2o-80 

Main Bulldln& 
JOI Ur'I'!RVI!WS ARI OPIN TO SDIOU AICD CIWIUATI Snmurrt IJI Til! MAY AlfD AUCUST CUSSES •...•.•.Am WHO lJrn'!ND TO HAY! lNTEilVU:WS HUST HAVI A COG'LITI.D PJOFU.! (RECISTRATIOH) ot.J TIL! AT nt! PU.CEK!NT llfl!AU ••.•••••• UGISTI.ATI'*, UCTU.VIEW SIGN-UP SHEETS AHD EHPLOYU LITERATUU AJU!: IN aoc;Jo« 21), Al»ffiUITRATJON IL_DG. 
COHPlnl Da'LOYEII SP!ClflCATIOIS ON DECRIES, JOI TITL!I, LOCATIOHI AJfD C1TIZDIHIP AlE GIVEN IN nut PLAC!M!HT MANUAL, EXCEM FOR THOSE !MPLOTUS AllDED SIMa. 'IHI PRINTING OF 11il MANUAL. 
TH! SIGH-UP PERIOD IS FROH 8:00 A.M, TO 5:00 P.H., HONOAY THROUQi 111\/J.SDAY, BEGINNING FURUARY 25 FOI INTERVI!WS SCHEDULED 10R TH! WUl or I'IAJOt ], 
PL!AS! NOTE INTU.Vl!W LOCATIONS AT T'KK OF 51~-UP­l posl 
YOU KUST SIGN FOR YOUl INTERVIIWS P!RSCJtriAlll. p\.E~S nd facultY FOf st.ude"t.s a 
..,. 
AL148CICLW-.. 

X X 
X 
X I 
X I 
Ku. • tuu. 
K X . X X 
X _j': 
~;:::..­
X X X X 
__ , 
WH. 
1 
l 
I I I l 
I 
I 
Blue Cro.. and Blue Shield of lndtaa B in Acct. (a.acbeduled fro. Peb. 15) 
l9uluble Lih A..uruace Sodetr of •-lark I in all diaciplinaa. 
General Moton Corporation HBA "ith Acct or Pio blr.ard or coactm. 
Guy F. Atkioaoa Co!pux I in Cl, MI. I In ...t. 
National Sted Coreoratloo I In Ml, IE, Hat, Chi, ,_to. I in Acct. 
U. S. Stad Corporation I in 1!, Ml, Hat. 
Ar.co ~Acct, Tin. 
Atchbon, Topaka and Santa Pe lai~ !I inCl. 
Deloltu H..ktna • Salle B in Acct. MIA vith Acct bk&rd or cooctn. 
Factory "ut._..l loatneertna Ae.aciatloo 
II In all lngr and Sci dbctpltnea. 
~on~yvell Inc. 8 In El, .c!, Co.p Set. 
Halloo lank 
;;a;;:--­
tt.rcantlh Truat eo.p.anx 
B to Fin, Acct, Hat. HlA. 

~ ~l.T. Lincoln Laboraton Cucalhd. 
NCR Corporaticm All IU. for Sd... I in llkt and fftt Tntnaaa for Michta-and liMit~. 
u. 
S. Air force !IH in all dladpl1nea. 

F. 
W. Woolworth ea.p-.1 All IIA. 


Arvin. lnduatrha. Inc. 
!I tn Ml, U. 
lt.barb-clark Conoratloa IM in ta. 
lroaar ec-11!!1 I in Lib, o\rta and h8 . .w. 
Moble ....._.a,lGC. I In all di.ctpUnaa. 
for "-q-t 


:tM!ea. 
I I I 
l!!!..:.....! 
'nlun. 
I 
I 
~~ !J•..~o ,.......,.
J ~ .­
I 
I 
I 
I I I 
I 
I I 
V!lte4 Statu ,.,...... c-..1 
1 sa &, a, a, •· 

a.barvr'a I ltl Lib. Arta .U lua. Ad, 
~IDterutloul. lac. 'I Procaaaiq. • Ia a.a, •• a. PToc... llqr-UD. o\qo, IL. Pen..... Ylaa ~Ind. 
"· ........,. ea--y 
I 1D Ltb. Arta wiU atroq lh&.f.Dua oriMtaUoa. .Ul DA. (bach..tulM fnM J•, 21) 
John Batlcoclt Nutu.l LJ.fa I ln all dlaclpllnea. 
• 
ltll.Dd lted ec.pay. C..ral OtflcH I In Lib. Arta, lua. Ad . .wJ lftar for C••U-r lenle• and Salaa Tratnae. M 1D lcoa. teA with Ac:ct, •ta, ltat bltard nr CODC:tn for Coaeu.ltlq; Oc:c"~Y!tloaa -o,.nuooa 


lyat-Aaal,at aad C!A.u TnloHe. 
Oa~r N.rar • c-.ar (lotll c:buc• fro. Bprlq; luppl-..t) I lt1 lilt, lflt. t&\ with •t, lflt bt,Td or eoactn. 
IHillaaM ... 
National l«lk of Datroh Ali IU. 
U. 8. lav1r-tal Protaetloa M•cp 11m Ia Ql, ,. aad lnYir~atal lrtar. 
Untvenal eo.p-h• IIA. MIA. 


~ . . .i • • •••• -... :.. 
~--.,;~ . 
·­
• • • ~ • .. " 't ~ "' II* -·--.· •• .• •• ~-.-......... F;1' ... ... .
.• ::}, .. ·~. .... •,\f'<... • • •• '"' •••. r..
:·..--•t: ~~(-ifr;~-.t·..~~~~ ·~-· ...~~":' 
;.··•.ol 
.,.... 


-------------------------~------~----------------------------~--~~ 
The Observer -SportsBoard Monday, February 25, 1980 -page 9 

...leers 
Bjork tied things at 18:14 winner at 14:41 -his fourth goal 
[continued from page 12] 
when he outraced MSU' s Dave -to clinch the win. club and gorus going. They're Leiter to the Spartan blue line Mazzoleni totaled 36 saves a big reason for the victory." for rhe puck and gave himself a while McNamara finished with 
Center Kirt Bjork and wings breakaway. He decked 27. Dave Lucia and John Higgins Mazzoleni to the right and ''Now we face a must win were a part of four of the last backhanded the puck into the situation again this weekend,'' eight Irish goals as Notre Dame net for his fourth goal of the said Smith. "With the way the fought back from a 4-1 deficit in year. WCHA has been going this the second period. Bjork scored The floodgates opened on season, we probably won't two while assisting on rwo Mazzoleni in the third period as know where we'll be until the others in turning his best the Irish outscored MSU 5-1 to final buzzer." performance of the season. seal the victory. John Schmidt MICHIGAN STATE 7, NOTRE DAME 6 
Senior Greg Meredith had and Jeff Logan gave Notre spotted Notre Dame a 1-0 lead Dame a 6-4 lead with tallies at FIRST PERIOD: 1, MSU, Hamway 
(Martin, Gottwald} 2:57. 2, MSU, Lakian

with his third goal of the series 9:08 and 10:03. Stoltzner 
(Finn, Omiccioli) 7:09. 3, MSU, Welch

at 8:27 of the first period on a responded at 14:47 on a power 
PPG (Hamway, Heusing) 13:03. power play. The Spartans then play to close the gap to 6-5. SECOND PERIOD: 4, ND, Perry 
went on a four/oal binge, with Bjork notched his second goal (Brown, Poulin) 1:02. 5, NO, Meredith 
(Brown, Schmidt) 5:09. • 6, ND,

Frank Finn an Mike Stoltzner of the game less than a minute 
Humphreys (Michalek, Meredith) 8:17.tallying and Ted Huesing add­later, and Meredith . and ] im THIRD PERIOD: 7, MSU, Welch PPG ing two, to take a 4-1 lead. Brown closed out the barrage (Lynett, Huesing) 2:31. 8, ND, Meredith Stoltzner's goal, the fourth, on Mazzoleni as the Irish PPG (Michalek, Brownschidle) 3:51. 9, 
MSU, Welch (Lvnett) 5:29. 10, MSU,

came at 5:13 on a power]lay. assured their ninth straight 
Stoltzneer (Welch, Lynett) 6:13. 11, ND,

Notre Dame responde with playoff bid. 
Schmidt (Perry) 9:05. 12, MSU, Welch three straight of its own to tie it Dave Laurion totaled 29 (Gottwald, Lynett) 14:41. 13, .NO, Poulin 4-4 after two periods. Two­saves while getting his first win (Michalek, Meredith) 19:47. 
SAVES: MSU--Mazzoleni (36); ND-­

thirds of the fourth line, Bjork since Michigan Tech ] an. 26. 
McNamara (27).

and Lucia. were on the ice when Mazzoleni stopped 29. 
PENALTIES: MSU 3-6, ND 7-14. Dan Collard slid a rebound shot "We were hitting well Satur­ATTN: 4,506.
past Mark Mazzoleni at 9:14 of day," said Smith, "something 
NOTRE DAME 9, MICHIGAN STATE 5

hAy J.zckson leads the Irish up court in late second half the second. Dave Poulin added we did not do Friday. That was .z,·t1on yesterday. The Irish comeback attempt fell short as a power play goal at 11:50 to a big factor in the turn FIRST PERIOD: 1, ND, Meredith PPG .'0...mfllt:'lle hung on for the win. [Photo by Dave Rumbach] make· it 4-3. around.'' (Brownschidle, Poulin) 8:27. 2, MSU, 
Friday Russ Welch led the Finn (Hamway, Leiter) 13:00. 3, MSU, Huesing (Stoltzner, Lynett) 14:27. 4,
Spartans with four goals, in­
MSU, Huesing (Stoltzner, Welch) 17:31.cluding three power play SECOND PERIOD: 5, MSU, Stoltzner 
scores, MSU converted on three PPG (Welch, Hamway) 5:13. 6, ND, of six power play opportunities. Collard (Bjork) 9:14. 7, ND, Poulin PPG (Weltzin, Michalek) 11:50. 8, ND, Bjork 
• • • Gold 

After trailing 3-0 in the first 
(Friedmann) 18:46. 

l •JIIIIIIIIt·dfrom page Jlj it this year. As far as I'm sensation, is also aware of the period, Notre Dame scored THIRD PERIOD: 9, ND, Schmidt concerned, if we play to our importance of next weekend's three unanswered goals in the (Michalek) 9:08. 10, ND, Logan (Collard, Brownschidle) 10:03. 11, .MSU, Stoltzner
cold shooting by the Maple capabilities, we'll do just that." tournament (which will be held second to knot the score. Jeff 
PPG (Lynett, Huesing) 14:47. 12, ND,

Perry, Meredith and Kevin
Leafs. One of Petro's seniors, co­at Saint Mary's), and is looking Bjork (Brown) 15:24. 13, ND, Meredith The second cold spell came captain ] ane Politiski, echoed forward to it just as much as her Humphreys tallied for the Irish. PPG-(Weltzin, Michalek) 16:46. 14, NO, late in the second half, and the feelings of her coach yes­senior teammates. Welch was the decidin~ factot Brown (Bjork) 17:08. terday evening. in the third period, whtch had SAVES: MSU--Mazzoleni (29), Belland
could have proved costly for "I really can't wait until 
(1); N 0--Laurion (29).

Notre Dame 1f not for the play "We're all glad to come out states," she said. "We're seven total goals. He scored' PENALTIES: ND 8-16, MSU 7-22.what proyed to be the game-
of Matvey. A short jumper by of the tournament as champs, really starting to play as a team ATTN: 4,611. 
... Warriors 
EAST MIDWEST 

Army 53, Navy 48 
CHIMES 
Boston 87, New York Tech 77 Ball State 83, Miami, Ohio 71 Brown 55, Columbia 48 Cleveland St. 85, Valparaiso 67 Canisius 82, Catholic U. 70 DePaul 94, Loyola, Ill. 87 
St. Mary's Literary Magazine
Connecticut 87, Maine 67 Detroit 72, Rhode Island 66 
F. Michigan 70, Cent. Michigan 67 

Delaware 72, W. Chester St. 70 Illinois St. 66, Oral Roberts 65 Delaware St. 90, Md.-Eastern Shore 73 Indiana 65, Michigan 61 
is now acceptingDrexel 68, Wagner 66 
Cornell 98, Yale 93, OT 
Iowa St. 66, Colorado 65-Poems" Duquesne 85, Dayton 71 
Kansas 84, Oklahoma St. 74, OT George Washington 71, Massachusetts 60 Kent St. 65, W. Michigan 61 
Short Stories,
Georgetown, D.C. 105, Holy Cross 78 Marquette 77, Notre Dame 74 
Lafayette 92, Bucknell 79 'Missouri 67, Kansas St. 65 La Salle 85, Vermont 70 
N. Illinois 74, Ohio U. 55 

Art and Short Plays ... 
New Hampshire 72, Siena 70 N. Michigan 90, Arkansas St. 55 St. John's, N.Y. 68, Providence 62 
Northwestern 75, Michigan St. 73, 3 OT Penn 84, Dartmouth 50 Ohio St. 70, Iowa 69 Princeton 68, Harvard 56 Oklahoma 78, Nebraska 60 submit manuscripts to MaxWestler 
Rider 67. Lehigh 55 
Purdue 72, Illinois 69 Rochester 82, Colgate 66 
St. Cloud St. 91, Moorehead St. 53 Rutgers 83, Pittsburgh 76 S. Illinois 63, Indiana St. 53 . ·Room 310 Madeleva Toledo 71, Bowling Green 69, OT
St. Bonaventure 93, Niagara 76 .~dl15 J)eadbne .·.· .--.~--~·.-··N-"·.~ .'.. ·..·.·.--·-.. ·. 
St. Francis._ea,. 64, C-YY-Po~t 61 ....· _• _ .J!IJsa.?~.Wich.ita.SI-7.8.-•. -••.•• -• • 
the 6-1 native of Youngstown, and we're ready to set our now; things are starting to work Ohio, completed an 18-2 Notre sights on states. This is going out for us. The seniors are bent Dame spurt, and gave the Irish to b~. a very important week­on motivating us towards this a 59-42 lead with 5: 55 left. end. goal (a state championship), Goshen ran off twelve straight Matvey, Petro's freshman and we want it." points to narrow the margin to five before Matvey con­verted a Molly Cashman pass into an easy two points with :28 seconds left to seal a seven point win. 
country.
[continued from page 12]

Matvey again led Irish 
Oliver Lee added 20 points to scorers with 24 points. Junior advantage of the spurts we had. 
atd the Marquette effort, includ guard Maggi Lally was the only We just couldn't make things i ng 1·t of the Warriors' first 24 other player in double figures happen.'' 
puints. Micheal Wilson was the 
with 10. -rhe win opened the door for a only other player in double 
Trish Albrecht scored 17 fl''ssible NCAA bid for tlgures with 14. 
second half points to finish as Mary uette, and for Raymonds 
For Notre Dame, Kelly
Goshen's leading scorer with and his players it would be the Tripucka was high scorer with· 
21. culmination of an uphill battle. 
21, while Orlando Woolridge''I'm very pleased with our ··!'his has been a tough year," and Tracy Jackson added 13 performance at districts,'' Rayrnonps said. ''We have had and 12 respectively.
stated Petro yesterday, after [Jr<lblcms with injuries and taking a day to savor the rl'cruiting, but every rime this MARQUETTE (77) Lee 8 4-4 20, Byrd 20-2 4, Schlund! 20-0
tournament victory. "I'm also club has come back. We have 
4, Worthen 8 14-20 30, Wilson 5 4-4 14,
excited about next weekend. bl'l'il snatching and clawing all 
Green 0 3-6 3, Marquardt 1 0-0 2. Totals
yl'ar..,

We've been in this position for 26 25-36 77. two year's now, and we have Phl'lps put in his vote for the NOTRE DAME (74) yet to win a game at states. Warriors. ''They felt that they Jackson 4 4-5 12, Tripucka 6 9-13 21, 
Woolridge 6 1-2 13, Branning 2 1-2 5,
Our seniors especially are -;ltould get a bid by winning 
Hanzlik 3 0-0 6, Mitchell 0 0-0 0, Paxson 2
lllLby--now I see why they

psyched about playing m the 4-7 8, Wilcox 0 0-0 0, Varner 2 1-2 5, state tournament once again, sll\)uld . They are as good as Salinas 2 0-0 4. Totals 27 20-31 74. 
and we really would like to win any independent ream in the Halftime Score -Marquette 38, Notre Dame 34. Fouled Out -Schlund\, Woolridge, Branning, Hanzlik, Salinas.
St. Joseph's, Pa. 60, Villanova 59 

Total fouls -Marquette 22, Notre DameSt. Peter's 57, Manhattan 34 31. Technical -Marquette, Lee Byrd;
Seton Hall 67, Fatrifigh Dickinson 60 

Notre Dame, Hanzlik. A -11 ,345.
Basketball 
Springfield 56, American ln\'1 55 Syracuse 85, Boston Coli. U Temple 95, American U. 79 


-
... 

The O~server -Sports Monday, February 25, 1980 -page 10 
...u.s. 
[continued from page 12] 
While fans snake-danced 
through Lake Placid's Main 
Stre.:·t to •he sound of '.'When 
the Saints Go Marching In,'' 
goalie Jim Craig was tellin.g 
newsmen "Everybcdy on this 
team played their hearts out. 
We knew we'd have to wear 
that gold. The price of gold 
keeps ~oing up, you know." 
President Caner telepho·ned 
the dressing room and told 
Coach Herb Brooks "We were 
rrving to do business and 
nt~body could do it. We were 
Molarity 
GR'AT. IJE'vE G<JT' 
"'Jbt,Jk51-/r W! 5LEEP IN COHFORT.' 

The Daily Crossword 
All Rights Reserved 

watching' the TV with one e;:: and Iran and the economy with the other. 
Carter invited all 124 U.S. Olympic athletes and their coaches to a reception at the White House Monday. 
The only other gold medal awarded on the final day of the Games went to Meinhard Nehmer's four-mao bobsled crew from East Germany. They zipped down the Mount Van Hofvenberg course in 59.73 seconds, the fastest run ever on this dangerous, twisting refrig­erated run. They had a combined time for four runs of 3:59.92. 
Erich Schaerer's Swiss sled won the silver medal and the second East German sled 


~----------------~
I RIVE.R CITY RECORDS I 
I northetn lndlano.'alatgest record and to.pe I I selection Gnd conceit ticket heQdquQitett I 
I II Sl.OQ OFF o.ny o.lbum ot to.pe I 1 limit one coupon per person 1 1 expires 3/7;so 1 
I 18,000_albums o.nd to.pealnstock 

II H D ;smcstudent checka accepted for up to I 1 J20.00 ovet putchGse Gmount 1 
II II 
RIVER CITY RECORDS 

I 50970 u.s. 31 NORTH I 3miles north of cGmpus 277-.4242 J 
. L-------------­
driven by Hotst Schoenall fin­ished third. 
A closing ceremony in the ice arena Sunday night ended these Olympics, in which the 
U.S. team won a total of 12 medals, matching the biggest medal haul ever for an Amer­ican squad in Winter Games. 
The 1932 team also won 12 the last time the Olypics were in Lake Placid, and two Americans also won medals in the women's 500-meter speed skat­ing race that year. But that event was an exhibition at the rime, not a medal event. 
The two main celebrities cheering the U.S. hockey team to victory Sunday were Vice President Walter F. Mondale and Eric Heiden, who Saturday became the first man to sweep five gold medals in any WiP.ter Games. He set a world record in the· men's 10,000-meter speed skating event after set­ting Olympic records in the four earlier races. 


''This is one of the greatest moments I've been through in my life," said Mondale, who comes from Minnesota -hockey country -and admitted to being "sort of" a hockey freak. 
The Americans trailed 2-1 entering the final period. They pulled even on Verchota's 15­foot goal at 2:2 5 of the period and went ahead for good on McClanahan's five-foot shot to the left of Finnish goalie Iorma Valtonen at 6:05. Mark Johnson, whose father, Bob, 
by Michael Molinelli 

coached the 1976 American 
Olympic team, added an insur­
ance goal with 3:25 left and the 
boisterous crowd began chant­
ing "We're No. 1." 
The Americans shocked the 
nation and the hockey world 
Friday night when they came 
from behind three times to 
upset the mighty Soviet team, 
4-3. The Soviets had won the 
last four Olympic hockey gold 
medals. The U.S. team 
coached by Brooks of St. Paul, 
Minn., also had upset 
Czechoslovakia 7-3 in the 
second game of the tourna­
ment. 
So for the Americans, these Olympics belonged to 20 young hockey players with gold medals around their necks and to the amazing Heiden, 21, of Madison, Wis., who was photo graphed Sunday with all five of his golds. 
Other American medal win­
ners: 
--Figure skater Linda Fratianne or Northridge, Calif., who won a silver Saturday nishr and narrowly missed beaung East German Annet Potzsch, the gold medalist. 
--Speed skater Ofah Mueller of Dousman, Wis., who won silver medals in the women's 500 and 1 ,000-meter events. 
--Beth Heiden, Eric's younger sister, who won the bronze in the women's 3,000­meter speed skating event. 
--Charles Tickner of Littleton, Colo., who won the bronze medal in men's figure skating. 
--Phil Mahre of Yakima, Wash., won the silver in the men's slalom ski race. 
Fratianne was disappointed that she failed to follow Dorothy Hamill's 1976 performance and win the Olympic figure skating gold for the U.S. "I didn't think I could have skated any better," she said. "I was just sort of disappointed that I didn't have a gold medal around my neck." 
Heiden was easily the out­standing individual athlete with his five golds. Nikolai Zimyatov of the Soviet Union won two gold medals and one silver in Nordic ski racing. Hanni Wenzel of Liechtenstein won two gold and one silver in Alpine events and gave the tiny European principality in which she ltves its first Olympic gold ever. 
... Crisis 
[continued from page 12] 
even with my broken writing hand, l can write a statement faster than the marathon men under the Golden Dome. 
Jusr as the american people have voiced their disapproval of the actions of the Iranians, so too have the Notre Dame students demonstrated their sentiments regardi-ng the University's behavior. But all tht: petitions and signs and banners in the world mean little unless you can fill the seats of the arena. 
So, if you have a dollar (that's all, just a dollar) , it could speak louder than any petition. Buy a ticket and, who knows, maybe it will help free the hostages. 
ROCCOS 
men's and women's hairstyling at comfortable prices 531 N. Michigan 233-4957 
ACROSS 1 Take live 
5 
10 14 
15 16 17 19 20 
21 23 24 
25 
29 
Capital of 
Morocco Chair Baseball 
family name Practice Boleyn Savory bird Little bit Agreement 
between 
countries Less bright Mil. rank Baltic 
person Moistened 
the bird Certain ear tuft 
33 
34 
35 
36 37 38 
39 40 
41 42 44 46 
47 48 
Piedmont city "The PUSSY· 
..
cat went-River at Balmoral castle -on it! Exposed Criticize pitilessly Fury Old World falcon -majesty Up a tree Expunged Offshore eagles Fruit drink Winter melon 
Friday's Results 


WHOEVER IS 0011./6 Tiw, MY WALL£1' IS IN 
51 
56 
57 
60 
61 62 
63 64 
65 
Colorful 
cotton Skip 
Farmer's 
problem Use a bike Defame Shake­(move!) Hind British queen, to 
Pierre Vapor 
DOWN 
1 Speed 2 College 
3 4 
5 
6 7 8 
9 10 
11 
12 13 18 22 24 
25 

in N.C. Cull Fiddler's item Deterio· rated Pale Phooey! End of port or cart Offered Revered ones Adam's grandson Pot builder Salty drop 
Gloomy dean Smoky one Unsuccess· 
lui one Fundamental 
26 
27 28 
29 
30 31 32 34 
37 38 40 43 44 
45 47 48 
49 50 52 53 54 
55 
58 
59 
Houston player Direct Berg part Removed the center Doesn't work Tenant's concern -up (nervous) Grabs "-Bill, the sailor" Neighbor of Ga. Resident of Belgrade More orderly Nourishing Where many exes begin Moorehead of movies Twine Lady friend in Lille Lateral part Metric weight Sun: comb. form 
Son of Zeus Noncom Lubricate Statistic for Carew 

Join others AL-LIKE you 
Student Health Center 3rd floor Ext. 8809 
~ 
L_ 
-


The Observer -Sports ' Monday, February 25, 1980 -page 11 
Sports Briefs._-----. 
Fencers continue winning ways 
MADISON Wis. --Coach Mike DeCicco's Notre Dame fencers will take a 17-0 season le_dger and 122-meet winning streak into Thursday's encounter at Wayne State, thanks to victories over three schools here on Saturday. 
The Irish defeated Wisconsin, 19-8, Illinois, 17-10, and Minnesota, 19-8, to prepare for this week'.s "match of the season.'' Epeeists Kevin Tindell and Pat Rooney led the Irish, posting respective 5-0 and 4-0 marks on the afternoon. 
After winning its first eight meets, the Irish women's team dropped a 10-6 match to Wisconsin. Coach Greg Mueller's squad is 9-1 after bouncing back to defeat Minnesota, 5-4. 
Saint Mary's dropped two decisions, 7·2 to Wisconsin, and 6-3 to Minnesota. 
Sloan accepts new position 
GAINSVILLE Fla. (AP) -Norm Sloan, head basketball coach at North Carolina State, has accepted the Universtiy of Florida's offer to return to head the Gator basketball program he left in 1966, Florida athletic director Bill Carr confirmed Sunday. 
Pep rally tomorrow night 
A ''Beat DePaul pep rally will be held tomortow in the pit at the ACC. It will begin at 7:30 p.m. , 

Classifieds 
ONE FEMALE WANTED IN CAM­PUS VIEW APARTMENTS. $100/

Notices 
MONTH. Call anne 7884. 

-
!Tuesday Is ND-SMC Day at Royal IYalley Ski Resort! 2 for1 lift tickets ~-10 pm, also 2for 17-10 pm M-Tu-Th. 
For Sale 

2 chair lifts. Closest Ski Area to 
Campus. Buchanan, Ml 'Bun.k Beds of varnished hardwood beams, handmade (dismantable),
~--------------­
holds box-spring and mattress. Call George Bush for President Campaign SMC 4427. Committee Tuesday night LaFortune Little Theatre 8:00 pm. Anyone else FLASH: Photographic equipment for interested Is welcome to attend. 
Meeting of the Mock Convention 
sale--fantastic bargains! !--cameras, lenses. Call 232-4129. Ski Vermont over spring break with 
the ND·SMC Ski Club. Lifts, lodgings Two student DePaul Tlx for sale. Only and meals for five days $139.00. the wealthy need call. If Interested Contact Chris at 3200 or 3414. contact Joe or Dave at 2n-5852. 
Used 1

r & F d Skis for sale 
K2 255 Soft. ~ost oun _se_aso_n_.8_67_o.______ 
LOST: A silver engraved cross pen at 
Tickets 

Mardi Gras. Backstage room. Call Kevin 3670. 
WANTED: DePaul tix, Student or GA, LOST: Olive drab green army-style Nama your price. Thanks, Kathy baseball cap lost between Main Circle 
1343. and Zahm. Must have ...great value. Steve 8907. Reward. 
True Mega Bucks for DePaul GA's. You nama $$$. Mlck 8212. 
Need 2 student DePaul tix. Call SMC

for Rent 
5278. 

We rent dependable cars from $7.95 a I need tickets for the DePaul game, 1-4 day and 7 cents a mile. Ugly Duckling either student or GA. Will pay yourRent-A-Car. 921 E. Jefferson Blvd. price. Call AI 1156. Mish, IN 255-2323. " 
----------------
I need 2 GA tix to DePaul game. Will Rooms. $40/month, near, rides. pay your price. Anna (SMC). 5322. 
233-1329. WANTED: 1 GA ticket for the DePaul game. Money's no object. Call Pat 8710. $$$
Wanted 
Desperately need DePaul student andNeed ride to Pittsburgh weekend of 

GA's. Call Leo 1871.

2/28 Please call 8155. Rich graduate '61 needs DePaul tlx
WANTED: young man single and free 
[6]. Call 272-5744.

experienced. My father needs a ticket for the
Riders needed to Conn. NYC area for DePaul game, will trade my DePaullong weekend--leaving 2/27 5:00pm--­student ticket and $5 for a Depaul GA.
Call P. Floyd 1678. 
Call Wheat at 1171 . 

Need ride to Madison, Wisconsin any Will trade 2 student DePaul tickets forweekend. Will share usual. Call Paula 2 Dayton GA's. Call Mark 8648 or
8135. 
John 8646. 

Desperately need ride to NYC for any Need GA DePaul tickets. Call Vinceof the Pink Floyd concerts next week. 
3578/3591.

Call the WALL 3588. Sister & friend traveling 1.200 miles
Desperately need Dayton tix..3588. 
for DePaul game. Big, big bucks for tickets.

Ride needed to Chicago--afternoon of · KevinMarch 5. 
1786
Mark 4609 Help. Naad 1 DePaul student ticket.

Need ride to Detroit area Feb. 29. Will 
Call Ed 1687. 

pay. Call41-4111. Need one DePaul GA ticket. Please
Overseas Jobs--Summer/year-round. 
call Carol 3848.

Europe, S. America, Australia, Asia, etc. All fields, $500-1,200 monthly. 
Need 10 DePaul tix student or GA will

Expenses' paid. Sightseeing. Free 
pay your price. Carol 41-4950.

info write IJC, Box 52-14, Corona Del Mar. CA 92625. 
I need DePaul tickets, Call Phil at 14fl? .A 

Women Irish sights turn toward gold 
by Mark Hannuksela  Hanover College.  more forward Tricia McManus  
A fired-up squad from Grace  chipped in with 15, while senior  
"We're going for the gold  gave Notre Dame trouble in the  co-captian Molly .~ashman  
now.''  first ten points of the game, and  added ten. ,,  
No folks, that's not Herb  still led by four 26-22 with 6:09  Matvey pulled ·down 11  
Brooks, it's Sharon Petro. And  remaining in the first half. But  caroms as Notre Dame out­ 
she's not referring to a medal  a 14-2 Irish spurt gave Petro  rebounded their opponents  
that her women's basketball  some room to breath at half­ 36-23. McManus and senior  
team can win next weekend,  time, 36-28.  ] ane Politiski added seven and  
but a title--State Champs.  The two teams traded  six rebounds respectively.  
That's the goal of the Notre  buckets for the first part of the  Game scoring honors went to  
Dame gals following a pair of  second half, until a turn-around  Jo Klotz of Grace, who hit 11 of  
wins at the AlA W Division III  jumper by ] ane Politiski gave  19 field goal attempts, and all of  
District tournament this past  Notre Dame its biggest lead,  her 11 free throws for 33 J?Oints.  
weekend.  52-40 with 12:21 left in the  In Saturday's game, 1t was  
Friday night, the Irish, seed­ game.  Notre Dame who scored eight of  
ed first among the seven teams  The next Irish bucket came at  the first ten points. •A Tricia  
in this tournament, overcame  the 7: 15 mark on a turn around  McManus bucket j).lst :19  
an early deficit, and then  eight footer by Shari Matvey..  seconds into the game gave the  - 
survived a late scare to defeat  In the mean tune Grace ran off  Irish girls a lead they would  
Grace College 73-65. And in  ten straight points to narrow  never relinquish. There were  
Saturday's final, Petro's squad  the gap to two, 52-50. But  some tense moments along the  
again had to thwart a late rally  Matvey' s basket seemed to  way however, as Petro's troops  
to down Goshen 61-54. That  spark the Irish, who went on to  went through two long  
win put the Irish into Friday's  outscore their opponents 21-15  stretches without scoring a  
semi-final match-up against  the rest of the way, for an eight  point. The first one lasted for  
Huntin~ton College, the run­ point win.  4: 12 in the first half, but an  
ner-up 1n the South Qistrict.  Matvey led three Irish  eight point Irish lead dwindled  
The other semi-final pairing  scorers in double figures, as  to only four, thanks to some  
will be between Goshen and  she scored 19 points. Sopho­ _[continued on page 9]  

All classified ads must be received by 5:00 p.m. , two days prior to the issue in which the ad is run. The Observer office will accept classifieds Monday through Friday, 10:00 a.m. to 5;00 p.m. All classifieds must be pre-paid, either In person or through the mail.  
I  2 Student DePaul tickets needed. Please call 4-1-5391. Personals ------------------------­Tuesday Feb. 26 CILA Summer Pro­jects meeting. 6:30 Keenan Base­ment. No more apjilicatlons will ba processed! Bets-Happy Birthday!Can't walt til our next vlstlt to 220 Merrill Street. K. To: Misshea, Fox, South what?, Dlggeflg, Ruby I, Driver J.D., 5 good times-Popeyes...hurricanes... Rue Bourbon-Show your!!. ..Takee-outee ... Nopeekie-Nosoa~:~ie ... U nderthed..... waitrit!! ...scenlc'loops...keller 'leads.. . southernly comfortable Jackblack....'L Jesus saves..hyperactive cows .. funny viewers!!! Mardi Gras 1980 . "The Great Southern Waste!" Love, Pit stop P.S. Best Krewe ever!!:;___________________ Pete,Belated Happy Birthday wishes (or consolation?) Rosemary ----------------Attennon Long rsranaers: Long rs1ana Club meeting Feb. 27, Wednesdaynight at 6:30 In Little Theatre In Lafortune.---------------­New Jersey club bus for spring break Is now taking reservations. Call Chris at 1178 or Kevin at 1166 for mora Info. Looking For Fun? Join our ski trip to Boyne, MTN. Limited spaces available-only twenty Iaft! Caii·John 3235. Seniors: Down with DePaul party. Tonight at Sr. Bar. Charles "Hollywood" Dyer for UMOC The Forsaken Jamaican. NAZZ· Music cempatltlon Is March seventh-Apply. Are you wondering what kind of Jobs you can get as an Arts and Letters major? Plan to attend "A Forum on Career Opportunities for Arts and Letters MaJors" conducted by Mr. Paul Reynolds of the Placement Bur­eau ...tomorrow, Tuesday 7:00 pm at Howard Hall. BB II, I just hate anonymity!! Have fun explaining ...or not explaining!! Naughty as ever, BBI Ps&is~~ic~~------­what's this miss your face and ate. stuff!?! No wonder you're reading up on birth control methods! And 1 though! he couldn't stand to be toucheo!  Ask Chris Kellar about the Joy of Radar. Welcome back Patti. Some one you love or care about have a drinking problem? Join AL-Iike, join others who are where you are. Thursdays 12:15-1 pm Student Health Center 3rd floor Ext. 8809. Seniors: Contests tonight at Sr. Bar. Deirdre M., In necessarlis unitas, in dublis liber­tas, in omnibus caritas. Servus, Bob B. -----------·-­~ Triple digit cash ..•awarded to wlnnen of the NAZZ Music Competition, Man:h 7. Charles "Hollywood" Dyer for UMOC Chucky is Yucky. Applications for the Nuz Music Competition are available at Student Union [second floor LaFortune], and are due February 27. Donna Tyler, Boy! You think you have problems with your mother-In-law! Palmer Courtland Mimi Pacyna, Can I swim In your pool?Mystery Man Discover Your Personal Strengths and Goals!! Come to the Human Potential Workshop, an 8 week seminar which meets once a week beginning Feb. 27 from 3:30-5:30 pm. Sign up In the Counseling and Career Development Center. To the A.H. who's dog doesn't bite. Thanks. Now I have a hole In my leg. Girl on bike. Walsh women can rise to any occasion· just ask Martha &Sandy. Everybody-Those killers in America are always on the TV--I'm so bored with the USA, but what can I do? Thank you driver for gettin •me here (I asked a girl what she wanted to be) and she said-It's only rock 'n' roll. From Hay, Punk Rocker Erica, Come back from Hollywood. All is forgiven. Love, Tom Sluggo nominates Mr. Bill for UMOC. Oh, Mr. BBBBBBIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII!!!I!!!I! David Link, Only kidding. B.P. To my secret admirer, Secrets are for telling. Speak now or forever hold your peace. I'm waiting.·Admlree  Steve and Meg, Thanks for the memories. We'll never forget-Papa Sorrento's, Grater's, Lit· tie Kings (whoosh), "Daddy, can we... ", and all the beautiful sights of Cincinnati! Next week let's MOP It upagain! Love, Patty and Cindy Salvatore, Thank you for being a frland ...and being there when I needed one. Love, Margie Buggs, I can never tell when you're serious... You don't know what that does to me. Tim, Grapefruits and oranges from Florida (Sorry!) await 2nd year law student from California/Colorado at 418 Far­ley. It was nice to discover that chivalry Is not dead! Thanks, The Farley Floridians Annetta and Tina A & T., Chivalry Is not dead but only lives among the grad students. · Galvoid-Miss your face (and ate.). What doing? I was--ah--blufflng about Thurs.--felllllke calling another one?! Be aggressive and give me somethingelse to smile about. Peanutbutter and Jelly Sandwiches -----------­P.J. STAPLETON ET AL..••THANKS FOR YOUR SOUTHERN HOSPITAL­ITY. WE HAD A GREAT TIME. TAKE CARE AND THANKS FOR EVERYTHING. YOUR'S IN DIXIE, THE NOTRE DAME 14 -------~-------­Stork, Is it true what you said about Dick? Happy Birthday, Pete. Badin Mom, It's good to be back and thanks for the wishes. Tim Linda, Happy 19th! Jim LEARN INTERVIEWING SKILLS FROM THE MEN WHO ACTUALLY DO THE INTERVIEWING!!!! Come to aworkshop on Feb. 26 at 7:00pm in the Student Affairs Conference Rm. Two men from Proctor and Gamble will be there to give tips on Interview­. lng. Sign up in the Career Develop­ment Center, SMC. Mark Radell, Where have you been hiding lately??? I miss your face!! -----------·----­Discover the Lannon Buzz. Louisa Walsh Is soon to become legal!!! Is the world ready??  ...  

~ 
'I 


3..... ;-., -.. ·~~ .. 
~­

Monday, February 25, 1980 -page 12 
Irish run afoul 
leers split

Warriors scalp Irish 
weeken.d set 

by M.-rk Perry · · :\nyrirne a ream plays us a Sports Editor man-to-man defense, we go one and four, "l{a>·rnonds <;aid. "In 
b_y Bn(m Beglane 

1 '"1ng 111tu halftime of yester­urlll'r wmds, I wane Sam to take 
Sports Writer 

,J.,~ ·... game aga1nsc Notre 11 ,,, them. He has to be the 
l).tllle. w11h a )l:l-54 lead, \!.11 quet tt· coach Hank t(l\lll<llb couldn't ht'lp rdlect­lllg h.tt k ,,, two years ago. The \\/;111 Ill!..., carne in(l) che ACC as .! 1' 11.!111g n.u i"nal champions, ,_,,;1-,c ,j nurnlwr one in the 

"'''''"·and led the Irish bv 14 i' •lilt-.. ac h.dftime. ' -II at :--.1 o 1 re D:trnt· keeps •11l111g at you, Raymond ., •1c·d \·c-..tcldav. "I r<'rnernber ., 1w11 we· wen: here tw•> years , !"· lll' b, 11 at the-half. and ,. ,, . I reminded the bovs of t h.ll .1 1 h .1 I f t i rn e . " l.u1 1-..rl~· the~ (:'--lurrt· Dame) . 1 ,111.1 "'""c tir-;r w open the , ·, .111d half.·· Raymonds , . •Ill llllll'<l .. \Ve went ahead by ,·.gill .tnd wvre able to control till''' lll(l<l of the game." \11.1 when it carne time to ,., 1111 '"I th.H tempo. Rayrnonds put the ball in tht· hands of his r.tlt'llled guard, Sam Worthen. \Iter Man.juette's Oliver Lee .111<1 Micheal Wilson hit two b.hkets to open the second half .111d extended their lead to i2-)i, Worthen took charge, -..,onng 18 of his game-high 30 il•>IIHS in the second half to lead tl1e Warriors to a77 -74 win over the Irish. 
bc·-..r ont:~•HHH1t' player in the  
C< lll/11 !'\'.  
\l,t rt: Dame coach Digger  
Pl1eJp-. edwed Raymonds ·  
..,,.lllirnt·ncs. "lfWunhen is in a  
grove, he'll dominate rhe game.  
l k pt·netrares well and is a real  
ralt-111ed ballplayer. I was  
will1ng co give his H-for-20 from  
tilt' tl,,.,r, buc his 14-of-20 from  
lilt' Ililt' killed us."  
Worthen's scoring had a big  
hand in defeating the Irish, but  
perhaps more importantly he  
had a hand in fouling out three  
N~me D<l:me sca~cers--guards  
Btll Hanzlik and Rrch Branning  
and center Orlando Woolridi!e .  
·1 knew they couldn't stop  
rnc, so I took it to them,"  
Wunhcn boasted afterwards,  
and late in che game rhe Irish  
c"uldn'r stop him. Notre Dame  
had drawn within six at 55-49,  
bur Worthen proceeded to score  
Marquette's next 12 points,  
including two three-point plays,  
and che Warriors grabbed a  
6 7 · )6 lead thac would never be  
sniously challenged. .  
"We didn't have any excuses  
coday," Phelps added. "In the  
second half we tried to get the  Sam Worthen grabbing the rebound here, scored 30 points  
momentum, but we did not cake [continued on page 9]  yesterday to lead the Wam'ors to a 77-74 upset victory over the lnsh. [Photo by Dave RumbachJ  

U.S. hockey clinches goldas Olympics close 
LAKE PLACID, N.Y. (AP) ­The dynamic, young United State hockey team came from behind twice to beat Finland 4-2 Sunda_y and capture this coun­try's first Olympic hockey gold medal in 20 years. It was truly an Olympic feat and the triumph generated more ex­citement across the nation than 
even Eric Heiden's record five gold medals in speed skating. Later Sunday, the Soviet 

Union routed Sweden 9-2 and 
won  the  silver  ice  hockey  
medal.  Sweden  won  the  
bronze.  

An ·outpouring of national­istic fervor followed the U.S.­Finland game in which Phil Verchota and Rob McClanahan scored third period goals 3:40 apart to break a 2-2 tie. The gold medal climaxed the XIII Winter Games, probably the only Olympics in which an American team will compete· this year. 
The crowd of 8,500 poured out of the Olympic Fieldhouse chanting "We're No. 1," "U-S-A" and "Bring on Iran." A band struck up ''God Bless America" and the crowd sang 
along.  
''Great!  Super!  Unbeliev­ 
able!''  shouted  Carlton  
Barnett,  42, a  fan  from  St.  

Louis. ''After all the problems 

in getting around this town, this makes these whole miserable two weeks worthwhile. '' 
He referred to the collapse of the Olympic bus transportation system that left thousands of spectators stranded during the first week of the Games and general disorganization and price-gouging that irritated visitors. 
[continued on page IOJ 
EAST LANSING--The Notre Dame hockey team does not know where it will be when the Western Collegiate Hockey Association playoffs begin in less than two weeks, nor does it know if ic has a future at all when this 1979-80 season con­cludes. 
Neither of those facts ts a surpnse. 
The University's administra­tion continued its closed-mouth policy on the program's status this past weekend, and says only that a statement is forth­coming. 
Notre Dame's race for home ice in the playoffs continued in much the same way--no deci­sion reached. 
The Irish split with Michigan Stare at the Munn Ice Arena over the weekend to put their league record at 13-12-1 and 
remain  in fourth  place.  The  
Spartans  won  Friday's  game  
7-6  while  Notre  Dame  came  

back Saturday afternoon for a· 9-5 victory. 
The triumph guaranteed the Irish at least a spot in the playoffs as they head into this weekend's season-ending series at the ACC against third place Minnesota. 
Ninth place Michigan State dropped t<? 11-15 in the league as 1t conttnues to struggle to gain a post-season berth. 
''At times we played just too 
lackadaisically," said Irish coach Lefty Smith, "especially in our own end. We were too loose on defense, passing the puck poorly, and when we went after it, we played the puck rather than the body. That always spells trouble. 
"On Saturday, though, our fourth line was a great factor. Their hustle sparked the whole 
!continued on page 9] 

Iranian -like crisis continuesfor ND minor sports 
• 
"'/he s,·holarship cnsrs .. 'Minor sports held hu 1/..Jge. · D.ty 4 I. Today , and every day, as long as t/1e cnsis ,·ontinues,The Observer wrll be with Y'lll ... 
!'Ill' s11nilarites between America's situation in Iran 
and the current dilemma facing non-profit bearing 
"l'"ns at Notre Dame are numerous. Of course, you 
t• 1uld never begin to compare the value of a human 
l1t'c t<J that of a university's athletic program, bur the 
'>I 1uat 1ons arc strikingly similar. 
On .J .uwarf 16. a group of adm.nistrative militants 
took over the future of Notre Dame non-profit 
lwanng sports, issuing a statement which placed a 
rtH>ratorrurn on the offering of athletic grants-in-aid 
r..,these sports. 
\1any student leaders asked questions as to the 
t a11onale behind the move, but received unsatis­
LtLtory answers. 
1~omrnunication, or rather the lack of it, became a ...c:rious problem. The militant's religious leader, the Ayatollah Edmund P. Joyce, closed himself off from public comment, sending Athletic Minister Jack S_rephens in his place to speak" at a forum on the matter. 
.Joyce continued to refuse interviews to loca! t<·levision, radio, newspapers, and concerned sr.ud­enrs. Senior hockey alternate captain Tom Michalek called in search of a meeting, only to learn chat the Ayatollah was out of town. Yet an hour later, student body president Bill Roche was granted a phone conversation with his holiness. 
1-'urcher questions arose as to exactly who was calling rhe shots. Was it Joyce, or perhaps another 


Michael Ortman 
religious leader. The Most Supreme M. 
Hesburgh, or possibly the University's Revolution­
ary Council, which was not to convene until February 
I )-16 in Key Biscayne, Fla.? 
llcsburgh spoke to hundreds of concerned stud­
ents, indrcating that hockey was the sport in greatest 
danger-"an experiment which has failed," he said. !'he militants opted to put the future of the sports .on trial before the Council, but would not allow • 
hockey captain Greg Meredith to appear in their 
defense. 
And what of the meeting? 
Good question. We've been told a decision was 
made, but as to what it was, all lips are sealed. 
The Scholarship Crisis : 
MINOR SPORTS HELD HOSTAGE 
Day41 

Whether the decision is favorable or not, several 
possibilities linger as reasons for this silence. 
Could the administration have been waiting unci! Junior-Parents Weekend was over, hoping to fend off inquiries from parents if the decision was against the sports? 
Could the administration be waiting for Athletic Director Edward "Moose" Krause to return from vacation on March 1, so that he might use his public relations talents to help calm negative reaction to a negative decision? 
Could they have adopted a wait-and -see attitude regarding hockey? That is, if Notre Dame's hockey team won the national championship (that's not out uf the question), the University would look pretty silly if it Clropped the program, regardless of financial loss. A card player who has just won knows better than to get up and leave the cable. 
Could the powers be discussing the matter further? In other words, could the University's decision maker(s) have come to the realization that the nature of collegiate athletics has changed in the past 10 years, and that, perhaps, Notre Dame hasn't kept pace? 
Call it wishful thinking, but maybe people are rehashing their rationale. This weekend's stunning hockey gold medal for the United States, for instance, indicates that money isn't the bottom line. All but two ofAmerica's heart-warming hockey team hail from schools whose hockey programs lose a bundle of money. 
"A statement is forthcoming," we are told. But 
[continued on page 10] 


.• 


