Sex Offense Staff-Page 11
' ' ' 



WASHINGTON (AP) -The White House announced early today that a daring military 
·effort to rescue American hos­tages held in Tehran was aborted because of "equipment failure." A collision of two U.S. 
aircraft on the ground in an 
Iranian desert resulted in the deaths of eight crewmen, the. announcement said. 
A statement read to reporters 

~ebUeasksforrevarnp 
of CLC at Board meeting 
by Pam Degnan News Editor 
Describing the existing student government structure as "incredibly decentralized", Paul Riehle, student body president, called for a revamping of the structure and questioned the validity of the Campus Life Council(CLC) at a Board of Commissioners meeting held last night. -Riehle stated to the seven out of nine board members who were present at the meeting that "there is no central unit 
· where student government comes together." He furth6 added that student government must be structured as to make it ·'more accountable to students.'' 
Frustration and apathy characterize student government on this campus, according to Riehle. ­
"Student government is so nebulous that so many students don't know what's going on, and as a result they really don't care," Riehle said. 
Another board member commented that student apathy does exist due to the ineffectiveness of administrative policies. "Students see only the failures of student government and therefore are turned off'', he said. 
On the validity of the CLC, Riehle commented that 3/4 of the student body do nor understand the differences between the CLC, the HPC and the Board of CommissiOners. He added that the CLC is an "ineffective" organization and should be either restructured or dissolved. 
Riehle's proposal to restructure student governmep.t includes setting up a constitutional convention, early next fall, to allow the students to choose their type of representation. . 
According to the newly-elected president, an 'ideal' type of government would feature a student senate that would be the main body of student representation and which would be solely responsible for the allocation of fu,nds. 
~ T d like to see many more pe0ple enthused about their student g<wernmeot. But no one seems to know what's going on." Riehle concluded. ­

Crash aborts rescue attempt in Iran 
would he say whether the Carter campaign would go t~ 

Attorney confirms court in an attempt to keep Anderson's name off the November ballots. 
Abandoning his ten-month-·

Corby 's to appe(ll recommendation 
long quest for the Republican by White House press secretaryJody Powell said all Americans involved in the operation, in­cluding an unsuspected number of injured, had been taken out of Iran. 

Powell said the injured per­sons are expected to recover. 
President Carter, who order­ed termination, "accepts full responsibility for the decision to attempt the· rescue," Powell said. 
"The United States continues to hold the government of Iran responsible for the safety of the American hostages. The United States remains deter­mined to obtain their safe release at the earliest possible time." 
The Carter spokesman said, "I am not in a position to provide additional information at this time.'' He said he expected further announce­ments about 7 a.m. EST. 
The White House statement began: 
''The President ordered the cancelation of an operation in Iran which was under way to prepare for a rescue of our hostages. The mission was terminated because of equip­ment failure. 
''During the subsequent withdrawal of American per­sonnel, there was a collision between our aircraft on the There was no immediate 
ground at a remote desert reaction in Tehran to the U.S. 
location in Iran. There were no rescue attempt. 
military hostilities, but . the It was not immediately clear 
President deeply regrets that from the White House statement 
eight American crew members what time the rescue attempt · of the two aircraft were killed was made or how long an and others were injured in the interval there was between the accident." failed attempt and the White 
The statement continued: House announcement of the 
''Americans involved in the operation. . 
operation have now been air­Neither-were anv details 
lifted from Iran and those who provided as to the scope of the 
were injured are being given attempt or how many U.S. 
medical treatment and are ex­servicemen were involved. 
pected to recover.'' The middle of the night 
Powell said, ''This mission announcement followed recent 
was not motivated by ~ostility · hints by key administration 
toward Iran or the !raman officials that American news 
people and there were no organizations think twice before 
Iranian casualties." assigning reporters to Tehran. 
He said Carter ordered prep­The officials, who had asked 
arations for the rescue attempt not to be identified, had made 
''for humanitarian reasons, to the suggestions while trying to 
protect the national interests of explain official disapproval of 
this country, and to alleviate trips either made or contem­
international tensions.'' plated to Iran by relatives of the 
The press secretary said, hostages. 
''The nation is deeply grateful The mother of one hostage 
to the brave men who were said she was shocked when told 
preparing to rescue the hos­of the rescue attempt. 
tages." "Our planes? Well, that 
The militants holdiqg Ameri­seems sort of silly. This is such 
can hostages in Tehran since a shock. I don't know what to 
the U.S. Embassy there was think. I don't know what to 
siezed Nov. 4 have threatened say,'' said Wynona McKeel, 
repeatedly to' kill the hostages if mother of Marine Sgt. Johnny 
there was a military attempt to McKeel Jr., 26, of Balck 
rescue them. Springs, Texas. 
Anderson becotnes,lndependent 
Washington (AP) -Republic­throw the November election an John b. Anderson became into the House pf Represent­an independent candidate for atives. president yesterday appealing Reagan said he ~as . not for the support of voters so seriously cdncerned It might disenchanted by thl"' prospect happen, but if it did -with of a Carter-Reagan choice this Democrats holding the majority fall that they might &tay home in the House -"it's pretty 
on Election Day. 0bvious what would happen.'' 
In Austin, Texas, Republican White H_9use press secretary front-runner Ronald Reagan Jody Powell said it was too~ 
said there was ''A terrible early to predict the impact of possibility'' that Ander-an independent Anderson can­son'" reborn candidacy might didacy on President Carter's 
bid for re-election. Neither 
tor either major party nominee. Anderson repeatedly disputed contentions that an independ­enty cal'ldidacy will make him a spoiler who could not win, but might give the election to one of the two major party nomin­ees. Aides said Anderson would begm his independent run for the White House with apear­ances in New York City, Atlan­ta, Charleston, W. Va., Det­roit, Lansing, Mich., and Bos­ton, starting this weekend. The )8-year-old Anderson ma­king his announcement with his family at his side, said that starting immediately his cam­paign will be completely finan­ced by private contributions. He estimated it would take 
by john Higgins 

Corby's Tavern wtll appeal the local Alcoholic Beverage Commission's (ABC) board's­recommendation, which would close the tavern, to the state ABC, located in Indianapolis, according to an attorney for Corby's. . . 
The reasons for the decisiOn were not clear. "I asked (the ABC) why it was revoked,'' Thomas Anton, attorney for Corby's Tavern Industries (CTI, Inc.) said. ·'They just said to me 'We don't have to give an answer, we don't have to give a reason,'' he commented. 
"I think it's pretty obvious," South Bend City Attorney Richard Hill said. "Several minors have been arrested in­side the bar. We've received numerous complaints from area residents about the noise and the trash in the neighborhood. This is nothing new," he said._ 
Corby's has actually had only one violation when one barten­der served a drink to a minor,'' Anton said. "They were found innocent of all other charges at a recent ABC hearing i_n Indian­apolis. · 
"But here," he continued, "the city attorney seems to think there's something wrong when minors are being found in there. I don't think Corby's should be held responsible if someone looks old enough and· they have an ID card," he said. 

"We know for a fact that they're not checking every ID,'' South Bend Police Captain Walter Benninghoff co91ment­ed. "They can ask for three pieces of identification if they're not satisfied; they don't have to serve. The law says that the responsibility lies with 
[continued on page 6] 
presidential nomination a~ a news conference at the Nanon­al Press Club, Anderson said: ''Then; is current statistical evidence that virtually one-half of potential voters are dissatis­
fied  with  a  choice  between  
President  Carter  and Ronald  
Reagan.''  

Tqe Illinois congressman said he would seek to "broaden the choice available to millions of potential voters who simply do :1ot participate in r,arty primar­1es and caucuses. 
He said he ~lieves he can attract many Americans who would otherwise sit oui: the general ~lection and not vote between $10 million and $12 million to sustain "a credible effort" through November. 
He said $307,000 in federal matching funds awarded him as a Republican candidate would be returned to the Treasury. 
Although the two major party candidates will receive $29.5 million each to run their gener­al ele-ction campaigns, ~there is no provision for federal aid to independent candidates. 
Anderson said he was releas­ing-all 57 delegates now 
committed to  him  at  the  Re­ 
publican  National  Conven tion  
in Detroit in July.  



---------------~ 



News in brief 
Friday, April25, 1980 -page 2 

No takersfor mysterious 
11-anianleader doubts May deadline 
White House turkey 

for release of hostages will be met
' 
WASHINGTON· D.C. (AP) -That wild turkey was still at 
by The Associated Press . . . · f · ·
its White House haunts Thursday, largely ignored by park 
Beheshu sa1d the s1tuauon sancuons some o the allies 
officials and reporters who got their feathers ruffled when 
An Iranian leader said was made more difficult by the may have had as a motive 
rumors surfaced that the bird was in the bourbon business. 
yesterday he doubts Iran can European actions. A ban on delaying American military
While the First Bird does look suspiciously like the one on the 
meet the European Con.mon new export and service action against Iran.
label of a certain Kentucky bourbon, the distillers denied 
Market deadline of May 17 for contracts with Iran and all Such a delay may be the
they were responsible for the fowl play. 
release of the American military sales to Iran, and result, the official said, 
hostages. Further indications reduction of diplomatic staffs because the European rime­·surfaced of closer economic in Tf'hran. table "Presumably will affect and industrial cooperation our thinking.'' between I ran and the Soviet The European allies also The Iranian news a~ency Par


CantP-_u_s_ ____, 
Union. threatened economic sanctions quoted Iran's oil Mmister as Canada announced new against Iran unless there is saying that during the past day economic and -diplomatic ·'decisive progress leading to or rwo, news agenCies had sanctions against Iran because the release of the hostages'' by reported that the Common
Friday, April 25 
of its "serious and continuing May 17. The Americans · 50 at Market ministers decided to violati·ln of imernational Jaw'' the U.S. Embassy and three at boycott purchases oflranin oil. ll:l5am LECTURE, "a personal view of four decades of 
by holding the hosrages. the Iranian Fore1~n Ministry -He said the ministers made no social psychology, II," leon festinger. HAGGAR AUD. 
Bntain warned Iran it would have been held smce militants such decision, Par reported. 
risk sanctions by most nations occupied the embassy Nov. 4. A delegation from the United lpm BASEBALL, nd vs huntington college, JAKE KLINE 
unless it meets the mid-May White House press secretary Methodist Church met with FIELD. 
deadline. J ody Powell issued a statement President Carter, urging him to Six deaths were reported in yesterday saying the Carter work toward restoring diplo­3pm PIANO FESTIVAL, lecture by jeff jacob, smc faculty, 
continued fighting yesterday administration welcomes the matic relations with Iran and to 309 MOREAU, spons: music dept. 
on Iran's university campuses. foreign ministers' decision. He refrain from military action ro Tehran newspapers said the added the United States free the hostages. 5:15pm MASS & SUPPER, BULLA SHED. 
new violence occurred one day assumes "decisive progress" Iranian President 
means release of the hostages
after 18 students died on three; Hbolhassan Bani-Sadr said in 6pm-12am CARNIVAL, spons; an tostal, rides, fun and 
campuses. from Iranian control. an interview by the French excitement, WHITE FIELD (NE CORNER OF CAMPUS). 
Ayatollah Mohammad Privately however, the U.S. radio station Europe 1 that Iran Beheshti. head of Iran's ·reaction to the European does not plan to cut its ties 8pm PIANO FESTIVAL, master dass-david bean, smc, 
Justice Minisrry and a member dec1s10n was lUkewarm. A with Europe. because of the LITTI..E THEATER SMC, spons: music dept. 
of the ruling Revolutionary senior administration official sanctions agreed to by the Council, was asked by said that in supporting phased Common Market members. 8pm ND/SMC THEATER, "under milkwood," BENDIX 
reporters in Tehran about the THEATER-CENTURY CENTER, $4, call 284-9111 for 
deadline set by common 
• 
reservations. 
Market foreign ministers 

SUNDAY MASSES AT SACRED HEART CHURCH 
during a n:teeting in Rpm SIGMA XI INITIATION & RECOGNITION DINNER 
Luxembourg. "We need more 

5:15p.m. Saturday Rev. Robert Griffin, C.S.C. 
1\DDRESS 'the care & feeding of scientist in industry," dr. 
9:00a.m. Sunday Rev. Austin Fleming
time," he said. 

10:30 a.m. Sunday Rev. James Flanigan, C.S.C.
james murphy, miles lab. BLUE/GOLD ROOM, MORRIS 
12:10 p.m. sunday Rev. William Toohey, C.S.C.
INN, open to all, (dinner for members precedes address at 6:30pm). 
7:15p.m. Vespers Rev. James Flanigan, C.S.C.

_The_Ohseryer._

8pm LECTURE, "refugee situation in thailand," prof. 
Night Editor: Margaret

udom warotamasikkhadit, ramkhamhaeng univ. bangkok, 
I
"Cruel and Unusual" Kruse

thailand, MEM. LIBRARY AUD. spons: center for the study 
campus
Asst. Night Editors: Mary
of human rights. 
"Happy B-Day, JAQ" 

miniStry
Kasper, Mike "Ten Cents a 

Dance'' Monk Layout Staff Nihil •'fourth Page Photo" O'Brien, Joel 



Saturday, April 26 
noon RUGBY, a,b, & c, nd vs michigan state, STEPHAN 
"Transpo" Annable, Lois
FIELD. 
Kennedy News Editor: Margie Brassil noon-midnight CARNIVAL, spons: an tostal rides, fun & 

Editorial Layout: Dave

excitement, WHITE FIELD. 
Mandolini Features Layout: Molly

lpm LACROSSE, nd vs detroit lc, STEPHAN FIELD. 
Aileen Wolf Sports Layout: Chris • 'Who, 

lpm BASEBALL, notre dame vs illinois-chicago circle, Me?" NeedlesJAKE KLINE FIELD. 
Typists: Carol Cornwall, Kathy Murray, Cindy Jones,

lpm PIANO FESTIVAL, master class-david bean, smc, 
Carol Shuback, Pat

LITTI..E THEATER SMC, spons: music dept. 
Shaughnessy EMT: Mike Monk, Kim3pm LACROSS B VS NORTHERN ILLINOIS, STEPHAN 

"You're FIRED PaulS.!!!"
FIELD. 
Convey Proofreader: Day Ryan, Paul 8pm CONCERT, john denver, ACC. 

"Wasn't Drunk, Just Stoned Hurley 8pm PIANO FESTIVAL, students recital,-LITTI..E 

ND Day Editor: Patsy

THEATER SMC, spons: music dept. 
Campbell SMC Day Editor: at Goose's8pm ND/SMC THEATER, "under milkwood," BENDIX 

listening to Springsteen

THEATER-CENTURY CENTER, tickets $4, call284-9111. 
Ad Design: John ''I'm Diversified" McGrath, Flo


Sunday, April 27 
O'Connel Supplement Layout: Tom lpm BASEBALL, notre dame vs bowling green, 
Jackman doubleheader, JAKE KLINE FIELD. 
Photographer: Tim McKeogh lpm TENNIS, notre dame vs ohio state. 
Guest Appearances: 

"FRAKO THE CLOWN," 1 pm-6pm 1CARNIVAL, spons: antosral, rides, fun & 
John Smith, Brian ... again excitement, WHITE FIELD. 
Ryan "broken lens" Ver­Berkmoes

2pm SOCCER EXHIBITION GAMF, chicago sting vs minnesota kicks followed by notre dame vs tristate, 
The Observer (USPS 598 920) Is

NOTRED DAME STADIUM. $3.50. 
published Monday through Friday
• 
except during .exam and vacation 

2pm LACROSSE A VS PURDUE, STEPHAN FIELD. 
periods. The Observer is published by the students of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions

2pm PIANO FESTIVAL, lecture, roger briggs smc faculty, 
may be purchased for $20 per year

p4 MOREAU, spons: musit dept. 
($10 per semesterY by writing The Observer, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Indiana

7pm FILM, spons: chinese association, MEM. LIBRARY 
AUD 
46556. The Observer Is a member of the 

8pm ORGAN CONCERT, david fedor, SACRED HEAR 
Associated Press. All reproduction 
rlgh!s!~e reserved .
. CHURCH. 


'rhe Observer 'Friday, April25, 1980 -page 3 

. . . worker keeps the campus spiffy after yesterday's Gentle Thursday An Tosta! ''picnic.'' [photo by Tim McKeogh] 

Iran threatens closure ofPersian-Gulfarea­
by The Assoczated Press 
Iran threatened yesterday to cut off the West's vital Persian Gulf oil lifeline if the United States mines Iranian ports. 
"We shall close the Persian Gulf at any price," Foreign Minister Sade~h Ghotbzadeh said in an mterview with Iranian radio and television. 
He did not say just how the Iranians might try to halt the supertanker traffic out of the gulf; which accounts for some 60 percent of all world oil exports. But if they succeed­ed, it would abruptly cut off 10 percent of the United States' oil. and higher proportions for Western Europe and Japan. 
The threat came as the Iran­ians edged closer to the Soviet Union economically in the face of growing Western pressure to win the freedom of the U.S. Embassy hostages. 
The Soviets confirmed they would open their highway sys­tem to increased Iranian traffic if President Carter orders a blockade of Iranian seaports; and they announced they were resuming suspended negotiat­ions to buy Iranian natural gas. The war in rebellious Kurdis­tan raged on, meanwhile. A Turkish newspaper report told 
~ ND BENDIX 
.-THEATRE

SMC CENTURY 
i 

THEATRE CENTER 
UND~R_ 

MILK WOOD 284-9111 he gende. humorous story of a day in the life of a Welsh Village May 1,2,3 
Apri125,26 S4.00 (S3.00 8pm .Stu./ Fac./ Staff) 
ofhundreds killed in attacks by the Iranian air force, and a Kurdish group appealed to world organizations for help. 
In Tehran, the 50 American hostages spent their 173rd day in captivity. 
President Carter said last week military action would be the next U.S. option if econom­ic and diplomatic pressure by America and its allies did not lead to the hostages' release. The principal tactic under con­sideration is a sea blockade, most likely by mining Iranian ports. 
Iran and six Arab nations ­Iraq, Kuwait, Saudi Arabia, Bahrain, Watar and the United Arab Emirates -ship their oil out throug!:\ the Persian Gulf, which narrows 'down to a 20-mile-wide bottleneck at the Strait of Hormuz. 
Iran borders the strait and controls three strategic islands at its entrance. Iran's relative­ly well-equipped navy presum­ably could try to bolckade the 
strait. -· · · 
In Indian Ocean 



Navysuffers missile short3.ge 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The Hale blamed the Carter 
Navy has had to scrounge for air-to-air missiles to arm its warplanes aboard carriers sta­tioned near the Persian Gulf, Pentagon sources said yester­day. 
"We've had to draw from other areas and put most of our eggs in the Indian Ocean basket,'' said one source who asked to remain anonymous. 
Asked about reports that planes on the carriers Nimitz and Coral Sea were shott of Sidewinder, Sparrow and Phoenix missiles, the Navy said it deploys its forces ''with sufficient munitions, including missiles, to perform their assigned operational mis­sions." The Navy would not elaborate beyond that state-. ment. 
However, Pentagon sources said there is an overall shortage of missiles used by jet fighters for air combat because the Carter Administration has for 
several years held down money requests to Congress for such weapons. 
As a result, these sources said, the Navy did have a munitions problem in the 
;~~~~~det~n~~:~b:h~ts;:obl:~
by pulling supplies from other 
places. 
This, in turn, has strained the I I combat readiness of carriers \ 
elsewhere, the sout:ces said. 




·I GLASSES 1:
Russel1 Hale, a professional I 
staff aide with the House sea power subcommittee, said in an interview that ''we don't have enough Phoenix missiles on any 

~~~t~~5;h:eo:: th:n oanec::t:~ 
weapon for fleet defense, mounted on F-14 fighter planes. 

Native Indochinese lectures 
The plight of Indochinese refugees in Thailand will be discussed by Udom Warotama­sikkhadit, a native of the coun­try, during a University ap: pearance tonight. 
The talk at 8 p.m. in the Memorial Library Auditorium is sponsored by Notre Dame's Center for the Study of Human Rights and is open to the public without charge. 


administration for failing to buy enough tactical missiles, mines, torpedoes and ammunition to flesh out its necessary stocks. He estimated the purchase rate is running at about 65 to 70 percent of what it should be. 
The Carter administratoin has proposed increasing its purchase of Sparrow missiles for the Navy and Marine Corps from 240 this year to 770 in fiscal 1981. But it plans to cut back its buy of Navy-Marine Sidewinder missiles from 320 to 220 and to keep its procurement of Phoenix weapons at a low level of 60 next year. 
The new Sparrow and Side­winder missiles will be improv­ed and more effective models, experts said. 
The Air Force, which also is reported to have supply prob­lems, would. experience severe reductions in purchases of new Sparrow and -Sidewinder mis­siles under next year's defense budget. 
St.Mary's sponsors Education fair 
Saint Mary·/ Collese will hold a Curriculum Fa1r from 
1:00 p.m.· 5:00p.m. today and 
9:00 a.m. · 4:00 p.m. tomorrow in room 327, Madaleva Hall. 
The fair will feature the work of students who have formula­ted their own educational mate· rials, aides and plans for learn­ing centers. The students will answer questions and sell their ideas to any interested teachers. 



r------------------,
1 BRING IN THIS COUPON AND SAVE I 
I .n · I
I ii'ifC Super Savings 1I II 1:


S20Off 
I 
I1 ~~  ({J.. > ·r€~~~~­.,;  1 :I  
1  1  
I I 1 I  For a limited time only, bring in this coupon and get $20 off any purchase of glasses. One coupon per customer. Present coupon at time glasses are ordered. No other discounts applicable during  I 1 I I  
II I1 I  term of this offer. Use your Wards Charg-All. Quality, Value, Selection.  OPTICAL DEPARTMENT!1111·.l ~ 1 all..:  I1 I1 I  
I  Scottsdale Mall 291-7910  1  

~~-----------------­

University of Illinois at Chicago Circle 
DEPARTMENT OF BIOLOGICAL SCIENCES 
Graduate Study 1980~1 
Programs leading to the Doctor of Philosophy, Doctor of Arts, and Master of Sciences 
Financial support offered to qualified students. Half-time teaching or research assistants receive $4,500 per academic year, plus tuition exemptions 
For applications and financial aid information, write to: 
Professor S.K. Shapiro Department of Biological Sciences University of Illinois at Chicago Circle Box 4348 Chicago, Illinois 60680 
• • • <, ••• ,{! .... ". ' ••• 
f 
The Observer 
Security expenses 
Carnival site threatens profits 
by Bntlget Berry $7 an hour for each guard. and have fun," he said. 
StaffReporter The An Tostal Committee has "We're trying to make s~... _ alw~ys ptovided extra off cam­that there's no dange.t." pus security personnel, but this "Overall, the administration 
The An Tostal Carnival may year they wtll have to almost has been most helpful,'' Calla­
lose money this year due to double the force, according to , way commented. Security Dtrector Glen Terry's Feikes. "We never talked to Terry refusal to allow the Committee ourselves,'! Feikes said but 
use of the field adjacent to added, ·'we felt the best strate­
'there 's just madness ...

Stepan Center. gy was to appeal through Jim According to An Tostal McDonnell, director of Student
when you

Chairman John Callaway, Terry Activities and Father Van claims that secretaries and staff. Wolvlear, President of Student

start switching'

will not park elsewhere, and so Affairs.. Both have been very the field cannot be cleared. supporttve. 
Mitch Feikes, keeper of the He said security guards will "Unfortunately," Callaway zoo said that An Tostal will no longer be able to adequately said, "it didn't work." have to invest a considerable patrol the area between the "Terry ~aid that "we just amount of the 25 percent share Irish Wake and the Carnival. thought we'd try White Field of profits it receives from Feikes also said that the because there's just madness Wabash Valley Shows to get Committ~e was taking '·e~tra all around when you start extra security. Callaway added precautions because of the poor switching.·· that the St. Joseph's County lighting situation. He added that he feared the Sheriffs Department charges "We want everyone to come possible consequences of allow­
tng additional people to enter through the gates. 
Clara Galaboski, .director of the Public Relations secretarial staff, said that she didn· t recall any problems in the past, but most of the personnel working in the administration building did use the assigned parking places by Stepan. 
She further speculated that most of them would prefer to park as close to their places of employment as possible. 
House ethiCscommittee urges censure of Representative Wilson 
I 

WASHINGTON (AP) -The ment the House can impose named once the 97th Congress 
House ethics committee yester­short of expulsion from convenes next year. day recommended that Rep. Congress. It requires the If the full house accepts the Charles H. Wilson, D-Calif., be person being disciplined to recommendations, Wilson censured and removed as chair­stand in front of the full House would become only the 2oth man of a postal subcommittee while the Speaker condemns his person in the history of the 
for violating House rules in his actions. nation to be censured. But the committee went even
financial activities. The committee ruled last 
The recommendation, adopt­further by recommending also week that Wilson violated ed on a 10-2 vote, now goes to that Wilson "be denied the House rules by converting the floor of the House for campaign contributions to his
chair on any committee or 
action. The full House will personal use and by accepting
subcommittee of the House of 
~ecide what punishment to Representatives for the remain­cash gifts from a person with a direct interest in pending legi­
tmpose. der of the 96th Congress."Censure traditionally is con­The 96th Congress ends in slation. 
sidered the strongest punish-January. New chairmen will be But the panel cleared the 
veteran California Democrat of 



Committee 
•

gtves thanks 
The An Tostal Committee would like to specially thank the Assistant Day Chairmen, whose work has been vital to the success of this' festival: 
Thursday :Teresa Robb 
Friday -Kelly Sullivan, Kevin Cawneen, Maggie Me Farland , 
Saturday -Pete Froehlke 

Student Union institutes
Does your hatr always look as beautiful as you'd like7 In all kinds of weather! It can, with the help of our styling expert-'> and the new Redken Day Into Night* permanent wave. For hair you can flaunt call .us now. 
Moisture Controlling Permanent Wave ' ·Pdtent PPndmg 
THE HAIRDESIGNERS 

121 S. St. Louis Mon -Fri 1 0-6 
234-4343 
South Bend Sat. 10-2 

Student Union officials .have instituted a suggestion box as of today. The temporary. box is located at the reception desk in the Student Union offices ­2nd Floor LaFortune. All suggestions will be reviewed by the appropriate commissioners in hopes they can improve their departments. 
more serious allegations that the gifts ~.:ould be construed as influencing the performanc~ of his congressional duties, that he placed the gift giver on his congressional payroll at a salary unjustified by the duties per­formed, and that he lied about the sources of hi;;; income. 
This is the second time the committee has found Wilson in violation of House rules. The full House reprimanded Wilson nearly two years ago for initially denying that he received a $1,000 wedding gift from South Korean rice dealer Tongsun Park. 
The current allegations against Wilson are an out­growth of that earlier commit­tee investigation. It resulted when investigators discovered unexplained sources of cash. 
An Tostal 


tomorrow 

The An Tostal picnic is scheduled for tomorrow outside the North Dining Hall from 
11:15 a.m.-1:00 p.m. The Tar Bottom String Band,· a combi­nation of blue grass, country and folk music will perlorm. 
SUf!f!estion box holrls picnic 
From Cuba 
Refugees pour into U.S. 
KEY WEST, Fl11. '-t\P) -The "freedom float" flotilla brought hundreds more refugees from Cuba to the United States yesterday as the State Depart­ment indicated it was reassess­in~ its. stern stand against the mtgrauon. r • 
State Department spokesman Thomas Reston said the Coast Guard was under instructions to broadcast warnings that picking up the Cuba immigrants was illegal. Immigration officials have said boat owners could be fined or charged with smuggl­mg. 
But Reston also said that because of the large number of boats involved, ''we will have to attempt to assess it as we go along, taking into account the humanitarian concerns and the law.'' 
White House Press SecretaryJody Powell also said the administration was assessing ''how to deal with that fairly rapidly changing situation.'' 
-About 300 refugees bad ar­rived in Key West by late afternoon, bringing to about 
1,300 the number who have 
landed since Sunday, when Cuban President Fidel Castro told exiles in Florida they could pick uf. relatives at the port of Marie, gateway-for the boatlift. 
The offer came two weeks after more than 10,000 Cubans jarrimed into the Peruvian em­bassy in Havana, seeking safe passage out of their Communist homeland. 
On .Wednesday, Castro's government expanded his boat-lift offer, saying anyone who wanted to leave Cuba could go to Marie!. For each relative picked up, exiles reportedly must take four other refugees. 
The expanded offer reportedly touched off frenzied efforts by thousands of Cubans in Havana to contact relatives in exile. 
The usually easy-going island city of Key West was chaotic, with exiles flashing fistfuls of money to boat captains, buying passage for relauves. 
Larry Rodriguez, Key West's director of public safety, said one woman carried a suitcase stuffed with $75,000 as she sought to charter a boat. 
Harried U.S. officials specu­lated Castro's announcement could trigger an exodus of hundreds of thousands. A stern statement from Washington said the boatlift was undermin­ing international efforts to evacuate the estimated 9,500 
Cubans  in  the  Peruvian  em­ 
bassy compound.  
The  State  Department  had  

intended to accept 3,500 of the 
Grabowski gzves recital 
Soprano Joan Grabowski will present a junior voice recital on Wednesday at 4:30p.m. in the Little Theatre of moreau Hall. Rebecca A. Zink will accompa­ny Ms. Grabowski on piano and harpsichord. 
The program will feature works m French by Jean­Baptiste Moreau and m Polish by Karol Szymanowski, a twen­tieth-century composer. Ad­mission is free and the program is open to the public. · refugees from the embassy, with the remainder headed to other countries. 
Boat operators have ignored State Department reminders that bringm~ illegal aliens into the country ts a crime. 
"I understand there are a thousand boats off the Cuban coast," said Rodrigues. "We're talking about maybe 14,000 people." 
Tony Ravello, who carried his father, nephew and siter-in-law among 200 Cubans aboard his 40-foot "Surgidero." said Thursday morning, '''I'm not worried. I've got my family here now. I don't think this country will arrest me for rescu 

Speciallhscout for ND IDld SMC students,
' .
'Tower wars' may end 
259-0335 
SeU Lock Storage ot McKinley
due to recent incident 
by Tim Vercellott StaffReporter 
The recent "tower wars" were a subject of discussion at a 
meeting of the Grace Hall council last night. According to Paul Rafferty, Grace Hall pres-

idem,  no  judicial  action  has  
been  decided,  "due  to  the  
recency of the matter."  
Rafferty  pointed  out  that  

occurrences such as those of Wednesday night could have implications for the towers. "The rock throwing incident may lead to the end of tower wars," Rafferty explained. 
According to Rafferty, the "wars" are not indicative of any hard feelings between 

'Flanner and Grace, they are simply manifestations of hall enthusiasm. "There is no hatred between Flanner and Grace, but at times people will band to~ether for the sake of hall spint,' · Rafferty said. 

-----------~---~-­
The Observer Friday, Apri125, 1980 -page 5 
ing my family." 
But also on Thursday, the Coast Guard and the Immigra­tion and Naturalization Servtce -which have stood back and allowed the refugees to pour in since the boatlift began Satur­day -each vowed to ''enforce the federal immigration laws.'' 
Miami INS director Richard Gullage said boat owners could be fined $1,000 for each illegal alien brought into the country and those who try to evade authorities could be charged 
with smuggling. Boat trailers were backed up ~o ~iles at Key West launch­

SUIDI!RSTORAGESPACE 
mg sues yesterday. 
The Grace Hall president 

816 East.· McliDley
expressed dismay in this most recent development in the 

Mishawaka
towers' rivalry. "Shooting fireworks at cement buildings is •.......................... 
one thing, but hitting people in the head with rocks is a much more serious matter,'' Rafferty pointed out. 
Glenn Terry, director of Notre Dame security, told The Observer that some of his men 
· confiscated fireworks the night of the incident. He appealed to the hap staffs for help in preventing future "wars." "We need the assistance of the rectors and the R.A.'s when these situations develop,'' Terry stated. 
The injuries sustained by two students in the recent "wars" were described by Rafferty as "not serious." 
Administration officials were unavailable for comment con­cerning the activities of Wed­nesday night. 
~;:::::;~~=~~~~~=====~======== 

Can1bodianshavesujfered undern1uch oppression 

(EDITOR'S NOTE · The writer filed this dispatch after three weeks' of travel inside Cambodia.) 
by Denis D. Gray Assoczated Press Writer 
PHNOM PENH, Cambodia (Ap) -Great believers in ma­gic, soothsayers and the stars, Cambodians say a Buddhist prophecy promises that a young king imbued with reli­gion will one day liberate them from ''the men who came from the East.'' 
. The Easterners are clearlv the Vietnam( ·se, who now dom'­inate this shattered land. Buc the young king has yet to appear on the horizon. The people are being steered toward a future that for now at least they have no power to change. 
The prophecy has gained such wide curre:ncy in Cambod­ia that i-t reportedly has been discussed by Communist offi­cials at political education courses. But the offirials have their own interpreta,twn: the king represents the triumph of revolution, the end of all cycles of political change in Cambod­ia, the "irreversiblf·" march tbwards a socialist, pro-Viet­namese, pro-Soviet society. 
While the United States and most other non-communist countries still talk about'coali­tion governments, the return of onetime leader Prince Nrodom Sihanouk, and a neutralist, internationally sponsored solu­tion in Camb')dia, this march. continues, however haltingly. 
Vietnamese sources in Phnom Penh say that this year, probably in mid-summer, Cam­bodia will hav~ a provisional 
[continued on page 6] 






G.S.U. 

-~ 
The Observer Friday, April25, 1980 -page 6 
Surprising turnout 
Runoffs highlight SMC-elections
HELP WANTED 
summer bartenders are needed at Lee's great pay & great food apply in person at Lee's 

HAIR DESIGNS FOR THE AWARE MAN AND WOMAN 
SPECIAL oFFER 
Free Redken Shampoo and Conditioner With any haircut 
$3sovalue ~EDKEN Through April 30 MON,TUE,WED ONLY 
HOURS
Mon 8 1n.~ ()Q Thurs. 8.30-8:30 lfOI an Appointment,I Tues 8 30-~ Jn Fri. 8 30-6 30 wed. 8 30-6 30 Sat 8 004 oo Call 234-6767 
------------------------------~ 
Wanted: COUNTRY /ROCK JAM DIRECTOR 
Contact Bill Lawler ' 3533or7757 
.By Friday-4/25
I 1 I ifinterested
I 


I .I
•-----------------------------­
by Patty Sheehan 
An astonishing voter turnout and the need for two subsequ­ent runoffs highlighted Samt Mary's class and hall elections yesterday, according to Mary Mullaney, SMC Election Com­missioner. The class of '80 will hold a run-off between the BeckmanIKras /WelshI Murray ticket and the Hill/ O'Brien/Stoll/Boyle ticket. 
Next year's junior class off­icers are O'Keefe, Callan, Flavin and Carey who obtained. 91 percent of the vote. The Flood I McCounI DornbachI Honahan ticket' received 57 percent of the votes against the 
.[continuedfrom page 5) 

constitution, general elections for a government and major policy statements on such is­sues as land reform and agri­cultural organization. A Cam­
. bodian Communist Party, with solidly pro-Vietnamese Com­munists at the helm, may also be unveiled, but building the party and the Communist state has not been easy. Much of the country's educated class was eliminated during the 1975-79 pre-Chinese commun­ist regime of Prtmier Pol Pot, and many of the survivors have either fl~d or do not appear eager to embrace the commun­ist way. 
"People thought there would be a change of direction after the fall of 'Pol Pot but instead there was only a change of drivers," is a phrase currently making the rounds. 
But unquestionably the single most overwhelming fact m today's Cambodia -oversha­dowing anxiety about commun­ism, fear of long-term Viet­namese domination and even the daily struggle for rice -is the bloody legacy of Pol Pot. 
Talk of coalition govern­ments and even the immediate withdrawal of Vietnamese troops, whidi appear uniformly resented, elicits shudders of fear. Pol Pot, still in the jungles leading a guerrilla ar­my, is still diplomatically re­cognized by most of the world. 
One fear expressed among Cambodians willing to talk to foreigners is that Pol Pot woL~;ld not change his policies that resulted in so much death if he could again wield power 
Ouradvertising sales staffis expanding· 
-z::::lfJ/1,~.;r­

and we want you. ~iberal commissions andflexible hours available. 
call7471 for further information 
START NOW FOR NEXT FALL! 
write in ticket of Devreux/ Fraboni/Lave/Hart for the class of '83. 
In the hall elections, a run-off in LaMans is needed for the Breslin ticket which received 49 percent against the 47 percent the Margargle ticket obtained. Pam Herbstand and Ann Yaegar won the Holy Cross officer election with 50.9 per­cent of the vote against the Sullivan ticket with 28 percent of the vote and the Madorian bid with_ 12 percent. 
President and \ice-President for McCandless are Scanlon and Toomey, who received 51 percent of the vote, against 
their opponents who brought in 
only 39 percent. 
In Augusta elections, 74 per­
cent of the students voted, 
choosing Martha Housman for 
President over Lexi Swedish. 
Teri Cafara, judicial commis­
sioner, Kati Blankenship, sec­
retary and Kathleen Carbonary, 
social commissioner ran unop­
posed with voter turnout of 80, 
77 and 81 percents, respective­
ly. 
The run-off elections are sched~led for Monday at the s.ame Urnes as yesterday's elec­tl?n. Campaigning begins to­mght and concludes midnightSunday. 

.. .Cambodia 
through a coalition arrange­ment. And many fear he would return if the Vietnamese withdrew. 
The Cambodian countryside, already in shambles after the 1970-75 Indochina war, has emerged a wasteland after Pol Pot's ultra-revolution. Hardly a single structure remains in­tact along the entire 185-mile length of Highway 5 between 
[continued from page 1) 
the owners," he explained. 
The motives of the recent crackdown on the local bars have been questioned by stu­dent leaders. When police were asked if they were receiv­ing pressure from the mayor's office Police Chief Michael Borkowski replied, "Yes, defin­itely." He quickly qualified his answer, however, by saying 
· ~hat Parent is sim(>ly respond-mg to the -complamts of area residents about the bars. 
"The suggestion that the mayor's office is operating under some design is without factual base," Hill said. "We just want to make thin~s better for everyone, includmg stu­dents." 
An interesting aspect of the current crackdown on the bars is a law known as a "controlled use ordinance." This ordin­encc places certain restrictions upon establishments whose patrons are "controlled," that 
Phnom Penh and Battambang. entire villages, with their natural arrangement of houses in palm groves, have vanished, 
some replaced by Pol Pot's communes of crude huts mar­shalled in military rows . 
Buddhist temples which once romed the center of village life have been gutted, vandalized or razed. 
... Corby's 
is re~tricted by age. Such establishments as bars
1
adult bookstores, and X-ratea theatres are regulated by a section of the law which prohib­its the opening of such estab­lishments within 1000 feet of another bar. 
The implication in this case is that if a bar is closed by the ABC, and it is located within 1000 feet of another bar, the bar cannot be reopened. Thus, if Corby's is closed, it cannot be reopened because it is within 1000 feet of another bar, Bridget McGuire's. 
"The purpose of this ordin­ance i~ to prevent concentra­tions of bars and bookstores in one area," Hill said. "How­

--.«ver, the bars on Eddy Street were all .. opened before the ordinence was enacted, and thus not affected,'' he explain­ed. "But it is true that if one of those bars is closed, it probably could not be reopened," he concluded. 

A TIME TODECIDE 
These few weeks are when Notre Dame students are making decisions. A few sam(>les: 
1. 
What ktnd of summer job will I do? 

2. 
What will be my major? 

3. 
Whom will I room with next year~ 

4. 
What will I do after graduation? 


For those considering the priesthood, the question is: Is this the time when I should consider 
whether I want to become a priest? If this is the decision you must make, then for a 
personal, confidential  Fr. Andre Leveille  CSC  
interview contact:  Holy Cross Vocati~n Director  
Box 541  
Notre Dame, Indiana  46556  
Telephone: 219-283-6485  

The Observer Friday, Apri125, 1980 -page 7 
Cavanaugh 

TIPPECANOE PLACE RESTAURANT 
·Is NOW HIRING RESTAURANT PERSONNEL
needs 

Shave your way ~o me Ay:p~m. ·... ;.:i~f*~;::;:·.~: · 
Hey, you sweet: couples! 
2:30! 
Bucket Brigade-Sign . 
Friday afternoon or call 
Frisbee fling......At 1:41 everyone just 
•~So\lth Quad
*fshow tis . ·· •· ·· 
Sweep that girl of your d.rellii'hsoft bet across the quad! An team: 6 guys, 1 girt 
Saturday e'Vet}(S~., 
Join An Tostal's fastest pa(:eqacJ:tvu:y. test your driving to unscramble dues the south side of the Sta<UUll 
Can you walk? Canjiou 
. 10 a.m., Saturday, to · An Tostal Road Run. details. 
Don't miss the ftnals · Tournamentat10 a.m.. bouncing ba1Lbehind · 
Tug o' War at "the pits'' 
Does your roommate whack him with a pillow · pillow ftghts at2:1) and 
LOOK! Out ()n the ~le w leap t:~lfmUll: ~( s a preppie no-.-.i.~~ s 
at10:30 a.m. 'Saturday; ·· 
fstAnnual .· <itt St. Joe's 
·'ducks and 
. ~iU 

STUDENT LEGAL SERVICES 
BASEMENT, NOTRE DAME LAW SCHOOL LEGAL AID & DI:FENDER ASSOCIATION ROOM B·12 283·7795 
11am· 2pm <M·f) other times bY appointment · 
WE HANDLE ALL FINANCIALLY UALIFffiD STUDENTS & STAFF 
string 
Anr.one who has string to contnbute to the World's Lar· gest Ball of String should bring It to 139 Cavanaugh; today or tomorrow. 
Any questions call 1388. 
Barkdull 
exhibition opens 
Gallery Aquinas-will open an exhibition of paintings and 
drawings by Nancy Barkdull from 7 to 9 p.m. today at the gallery., Barkdull, a South Bend native, uses a dramatic and varied palette to achieve her expres· sionistic style. By putting the subjects of her portraits into psychological si­tuations, the artist unfolds each individual's inner nature. also included are a number · of still,-lifes, depictions of small environments . The public is invited to attend the opening reception of the exhibit, which will run through May 18. 
Shuttle 
runs 
to Center 
Tonight, tomorrow and May 1, 2, 3 the shuttle bus will run to Century Center for Under Milk­wood as follows: 
7:25p.m. ·Bus from St. Mary's to Century Center 
7:30-7:55 p.m. -Route Elimi­nated 
8:00 p.m. · Resume Regular Schedule at Saint Mary's 
9:30p.m. ·Break 
9:30-9:55 p.m. -Route Elimi· nated 
10:00 p.m. · Bus to Century Center for pickup 
10:30 p.m. · Resume regular schedule at St. Mary's 

full or part time:day and nighf shifts high wages: excellent benefits training:dassroom and on the job cordial atmosphere 
FOOD WAITERS AND WAITRESSES BUSBOYS/BUSGIRLS :::OCKTAIL WAITRESSES DISHWASHERS BROILERCOOKS HOSTESSES BARTENDERS PREP COOKS MAINTENANCE MEN 
APPLY IN P_~RSON BETWEEN. II :00 am &6:00 pm ,MONDAY THRU S.!.TURDAY AT EOE-M/F
TIPPECANOE PlACE 620 W. Washin~ton Ave South Bend ,Ind. 

Pinocchio's ..')).~$ Pizza Parlor Q" Georgetown Shopping Center announcing 
TUESDAY. NIGHT 
IS 
lADIES NIGHT! 
6-10 pm all drinks V1 price 
,---------------------------~
1$2 off any large $1 off any small I 1 pizza pizza :I -only one coupon per pizza, please 1 I -coupons expire apri130
l---------------------------·I 


SPOTLIGHT PSYCHOLOGY--13fast-paced and exciting quarter-hour features of useful and interesting information which every individual should have. · 
This s~ries is a "first'.' in its effort to enhance public awareness of recent devdopmenrs in the sctence :1.:1d pracuce of psychology and of potentia1 impac:t o[ research findings on the daiiy lives pf us ::~II. This week's topic is: 
CHIWREN: NO DEPOSIT, NO RETURN-discusses the implications of the growing trend ofchildlessness, and examines research on the childfree lifestyle, characteristics ofthe couples and the quality ofchildless!marriages. 

~-----------------------------------------------------------------­
/ 



Editorials 
An Tostal Boycott 
Two nights ago, the "Sorin College" _plaque 
which has hung over the porch of Sonn Hall 
was kidnapped and is now bein~ held hostage 
by an unknown party. Reactions from hall 
members ranged from ~oder:'ltes wh? urge~ 
calm negotiation, to reacnonanes who Immedi­
ately wanted t? begin burni~g . other ND 
residence halls m random retaltanon. After 
much debate the moderates won out and the 
following sanctions were taken: . 
First, Sorin will boycott the upcommg An fostal festivities and will refuse to send a chariot team to the chariot race this weekend. The decision to boycott was a difficult one, especially ~ince the ~<?rio squad was victorious in last year s competition. One ~ember of th_e ~hariot team remarked that whtle he and h1s counterparts had been training ceaselessly for the enure semester, "there are some things you have to place above athletics. 0'-:lr hall is of a singk mind that until the plaque 1s returned we're not going to compete in campus-wide activities.'' 
Second if the plaque is not returned by tomorrow' at noon, Sorin will ask all other residence halls who sympathize with the Sorin position to boycott the finals of Bookstore basketb~ll on Sunday afternoon. "I think if we· are really the-extremely close school that everyone seems to think we are, we should have no problem getting the other halls to go along," rem~rke~ one Sori!l resident. . 
Third Sonn w11l reduce Its representation to the HPC, CLC, and other campus organiza­tions. At the same time, Sorin will demand that other dorms reduce the number of their representatives who visit Sorin_. St_udy. and discussion groups currently held m Sonn w1ll be cancelled. All off-campus residents who have outstanding bills at Sorin food sales will have their bills immediately i_mpo~nded. Pla'?-s ha_ve been made with offic1als 10 the Umvers1ty Student Accounts office to charge the accounts of those individuals with the outstanding bills. These monies would be subsequently trans­ferred to Sorio. 
A fourth step which is under consideration is a blockade by Sorin reside'?-ts of ot_her resident halls. This could be done m a vanety of ways which Sorin officials refused to disclose. "Let's just say that it wouldn't be pretty," one source said. He noted this step would be a last resort, <:topping short of all-"ut hostilities. 
I 
I 
I. Ihe Obseaer== 
I Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 465.56 The Observer is an independent newspaper published by the students of t~e University of Noue Dame du ~.c and. Saint ~ary·~ C?llege. It does not ~ecessanly. reflect the policies of the adm1mstrat1on of e1ther msmunon. The news ~~ r_eported as accurately and as objectively as possible_. Ediu~ri~ls represent the optnton _of a majority of the Editorial Board. _Cornfl_lentartes, op1mons, and letters are th_e vtews of their authors .. Column s~;>ace 1~ a:vadable to all members of the c~mmumty, and 
byMichael Onufrak 
One  R.A.  went  on  to  list  what  the  
consequences  would  be  if the  other  dorms  
refused to back Sorin up.  .  

"We'd probably start with cutting off delivery of food sales pizzas to the women's dorms we have been serving in the past. Next would come the dissolution of the Sorin pep rally and that would probably be followed by a general boycott of campus social events. A final step I hope will be avoided, is the option we have of cutting off admittance to our game room. It's no secret that members of the ND/SMC community come from as far away as Carroll Hall to use the Space Invaders machine. But if all else fails, we'd have no choice," he said. 
Of course not all hall members are united behind the decision to boycoti: An Tostal. One resident scheduled to compete in both the mattress race and the egg throwing contest vowed that he would compete as an indepen­dent no matter how the situation may worsen. "I've traint'd too hard and too long to let something like the plaque being vandalized hold me back now," the resident, who wished to remain anonymous, said. ''The price of eggs at the huddle has gone out of sight and I've been breaking them in practice at the rate of a dozen a day. It's myself not my hall for whom I compete," he added. • At a press conference late last night Sorin 
R.A.s announced that measures would be taken to prevent any Sorin resident from competing as an individual. "At seven tomorrow the doors of Sorin will be sealed and nobody will be allowed out. In fact, we will be holding our own An Tostal in our spacious party room which will be converted into a triple next semester. All residents will have a chance to compete," they stated. 
What will this mean for the future of An Tosral and campus stability. in general? One can only guc:ss. As it stands now it does not look like the plaque will be returned before An Tostal swings into full gear today. Unless the senseless terrorists who stole the plaque return it soon, Sorinites predict that the situation may get out of hand. 
''We can only hold the reactionary element of the dorm back for so long," one influential resident stressed last night. "If we don't get our plaque rt"turned soon, the reactionaries may prevail." 
Mich4fl Onft.frak is a jurzior living zn Sonn 
Hall. Tbis is bis third weell.ly column. 

Editorial Board and Department Managers' 
Editor-in-Chief............ Paul Mullaney Managing Editor .............. Mark Rust Ed;'tona/s Editor ........... Mike Onufrak Senior Copy· Editor ......... Lynne Daley News Editor .................. Pam Degnan News Editor ................ Tom Jackman Neu•s Editor ............... John McGrath 
Friday, April25, 1980 -page 8 
P. 0. Box" Q 
Crime affects all 
Dear Editor: 
April 21st's edition of The Observercarried a front-page article by ] ohn M. Higgins on off-campus crime. The article reflects the outbreak of concern due to two recent murders. Despite the fact that· the two victtms were both non-stu­
. dents, the emphasis of concern is focused on the student body. 
With regard to the problem of crime and what students can do to protect themselves, Hig­
' gins quott~s Brother Edward Luther as having said that a key solution would be for students to consider ''themselves as part of the neighborhood, rather than as temporary residents." He then goes on to say that " Luther also recommends es­tablishing a good relationship with neig~bors ~s a , ~ood tool for deternng cnme. · Luther· appears to be advocating a greater community spirit here. 
This attitude is reinforced by 
oft~.Campus Commissioner Mark Kelley -"A big problem is that students don't see them­selves as residents of the neighborhood." .... "We're try­ing to get them more interested in the neighborhood as a neigh­borhood and not just as a place to live for a year.'' Admirable sentiments you might say, and 
not  just  in  regard  to  crime  
prevention.  
To  achieve  such  goals,  a  

greater unity of purpose and life between students and non­students should be provoked. 
However, Luther and Kelley after such a good start, both go on with statements that would seem calculated to provoke resentment and disunity. Luther -''One problem we have is that the police don't make any distinction if a stu­dent is the victim of crime." Kelley: "Students must report incients to both the South Bend police and Notre Dame securi­ty. We need something con­crete to bring to the police. We can't just tell them that there's a lot ofcrime." 
Why not, Mark? You want a community spirit, and then you ask for preferential treatment for students in the face ofone of the grossest aggressors on com-
SMC News Editor ........... Mary Leavitt Sports Editor ............... Beth Huffman Features Editor ..............·Kate Farrell Features Editor ............ Molly Woulfe Photo Editor .................. John Macor 
Busi11ess_Ma~~ager ......... _Greg H~dges Advertis111g Ma~~ager .. Mtke Holsmge 
munity spirit -Crime, especi­ally murder. Do you want a community spirit that just forms the students, an artificial community? 
In the April 22nd edition of The Observer there is another front page article on crime, this time by Mark Rust. To quote Rust: ''The extent of student victimization is hard to pinpoint since the police have not kept statistics which indicate a vic­tim's student status." More preferential treatment being advocated. 
Rust later on states that neither of the murder victiq~s was a student. So what1 Makes death easier to take, huh? 
So there's a m~eting fo'r off-campus students tomorrow? 
.And no indication that non­students might be welcome. Well instead oflooking for ways you can have preferential treat­ment, why not look for ways that the students and non­students would act together. For example don't tell there is• too much crime affecting stu­dents. Join forces with non­students and just leave i• at there is too much crime affect­ing everybody.· Who know~, it could start a trend? 
Something else tha1 could, and should be called for, is that if any students c~n offer any information of anything suspi­cious on either of the murder nights, to come forth and do so. I was disgusted not to find this or similar suggestion in either of The Observer articles. If a student had died mobilization would have been on a huge scale. Death is death, murder is murder, violence is a lie. Do you people want communitY or are you the new Aryan race? 
t
Name Wztheld 

---------------1 
. I 
One partyelection 
Dear Editor: 
As a candidate for Saint Mary's Junior class president running unopposed, I feel there are a few things that need to be said concerning SMC .student government. There are, at present, three tickets running unopposed in elections this week and several students are concerned with the question of apathy towards leadership: 
Some people ask, ''Why do you even bother campaign· mg?" . , . 
First of all, 10 a campatgn whether there .is opposition or not it is the candidates' respon­sibility to let people know who they are and wha1 they intend to do in the coming year. 
(continued on page '9) 

the free expression of varymg op1mons on campus, through letters, 1s encouraged. SMC Executive l:."ditor .. Margie Brassil Prod~tctio" Ma11ager .... Ann Monaghan 
... 

The Observer -Friday, April25, 1980 -page 9 
~ 
,t 
r 
'. 
(continued from page 8). 
Dine and dash

Secondly, there are alot of circumstances involved in elec­dilemma tions this year at St. ·Mary's. 
Reply from Zimbabwe 
Dear Editor: 

Within the past two weeks students were requested to attend room lottery and room picks, register for major and I would like to thank the six byIsmael Muvingi 
young people who came intoelective courses, and consider the Golden Bear Restaurant on Through an apparent _lack of knowledge, Mr. Gann, Mugabe has not changed muchrunning for a position in stu­U.S. 31 North Saturday night, misinterpretation of the same and some obvious from the Mugabe of last year, only now thedent government. Everyone's April 12, for eating and then biases, L.H. Gann's article (The Observer, Western press faced with no alternative but totime was very demanding and walking out without paying AJ?ril 22) on Zimbabwe presents a gross live with the man, can't but show all thetheir energies were obvwusly their blil. misrepresentation of the Zimbabwean situation. "positive" aspects about him they can find.

directed elsewhere. _A stu­You may not realize it but we I find it difficult to see what the point of the Essentially he is still saying the same things he c\ent's decision to dire~t her are now being held responsible article was, other than a diatribe of anti-Muga­was saying last year and before but which,time and energy towards other for all walk-outs and your bill beism and doom-prophesying. If it was in because of the onesidedness of the West.
areas of interest is not neces­totaled about fifteen dollars. mourning for the ignominous fall of the beloved no-one wanted to listen to. ·sarily a reflection of apathy I do not have any family to Bishop Muzorewa, then I offer my sympathies, I am not sure what L.H. Gann's sources oftowards student government. 
support me and that fifteen but quite frankly I am glad the chap is gone and information are, but I can't help beingThrough my experiences I dollars meant quite a loss to wish I could attend his political funeral. For us surprised by some of the things he says. I livedhave discovered a large number me. he made thing§ worse than ever before (I am through the war in Zimbabwe and not once do I of students are ready and You all received good ser­ftom'Zimbabwe), but 1can see the attraction in recall villages turning against villages, or dar .
willing to offer their services to vice. I explained that the him· for someone from the West: He is a against clan (by the way there are only two Jstudent leaders. Each and reason your food was a bit slow cap~ta~ist, r~ady to co~>perate with the West, a ethnic groups in Zimbabwe and both of therr. : every student at St. Mary's is in coming was that we were Chnsnan-mdeed a b1shop, and no threat. For co-operated against the Smith regime), and ifcapable of making a vital con­extremely ·busy and one of our that, all sins else can be forgiven him, can't there is hatred from the war, then it is directedtribution t~ the community in cooks had cut his hand earlier they? at the Whites and quite justifiably. 
some area of student life. 
But some corrections Mr. Gann. The Smith As for communism, whatever that is, mod·~r·in the evening. The cook hadHopefully, in the c~ming to be rushed to· the hospital to government and its cronies not only permitted ates certainly have reason to fear and theyyear, more students will make a get his hand stitched and so the m!lss of the Black population to go to the brought it upon themselves. The colonialism/conscious effort to get involved service was slowed down some. 
polls, It used more'than vocal p~rsuas10n to get racism t·tc. we suffered was from the West, orin student government. Only with their support and concern 
them to go, despite which. the 'mass'·, as I by self-professed westerners. We may not dire nee , I could have under­
. If y,buJoung people we-re in understand the word did not go. Of course know the evils of communsim, but. we surecan student leaders execute their responsibilities to ·their stood, and would probably 

there was a clear cut victory for Muzorewa, how know the evils of capitalism. If it weren't for have offered to loan you the 
could it be otherwise?. Things were made such the communists we would still be where wefullest potential. 
money to pay your bill. And 

that the two main contenders could not take were ten years ago, under a racist White Mary 0 'Keefe from the way you were 
part and in fact at the time th~ir parties were oligarchy with precious little help from the dressed, your families certainly 
banned! If by moderate is meant pro-West, West. For what good reason should we now all never brought you up to do 
pro-South Africa, the status quo and all that of a sudden embrace capitalism, and sever ties~tlefor such a thing. · 
went with it, then definitely Muzorewa'& with the Communists? I suggest you come into the 
establishment was moderate. It did one better; Lastly, Mr. Mugave is not going to be anReagan restaurant and pay your bills or 
It stepped up the borp.bing of refugee camps, African Bismark because he is an African, was the next time you come into the 
' continued the tradition of civilian harrassment, and always will be an African, and whatever he 
Dear Editor: 
and put a nice Black face on the whole show. achieves or does not achieve is to be judged b5' service. You are also hurting 
restaurant you will be denied There is a whole string of other misinterpreta­his Africanism. 

I'd like to comment on the tions and biases. ,AJ?parently according to Mr.
the rest of the students who 

e'ndless searches, blockades, Gann the 1979 electiOns that put Muzorewa inare decent enough to pay their 
secret service men and security office were reasonably fair while this year'sbills. 
guards on the SMC campw;; elections which put Mugabe in power, wereI have always been a greatMonday and Tuesqay for the 
conducted in ''a general atmospherr offear and Ismael Muvingi is a graduate stur:lent from
admirer of Notre Dame, but protection ofone man-presiden­intimidations." The people's will was reflected Zimbabwe currently studying at Notre Dame.

this kind of a<;:t sort of tarnishes 

tial candidate and ex-movie in the 1979 elections (and presumably not inthis image. 
star, Ronald Reagan. In recent this year's elections). The people's will mustYour waitress, years, a rising number of rapes be extremely fickle to have changed so quickly
have been reported by SMC-ND and so overwhelmingly within the short space
Elinor 

women and many go unrepor­of one year!
ted. And what are we conde­scendingly told by the Admini­Profpraisesstrations and Security? "You girls shouldn't walk alone on students ' that road at night. You're walking targets ... " 
Deat Editor: 

Administrative Support Needed 0.C. 
Someone could have saved himself a lot of time and money At the College of Engineer­if they'd told Ronald a similar 
by William Floriano
ing Honor Award Ceremonystory. After all, any man who goes around running for Presi­last Friday, I was given an 

I am sitting on my front porch looking a,cross I reject the argume-nt that the University can dent of the United States is just. award for teaching. The 
the street at the house where the murder took do nothing abounhe situation because I find it asking for trouble. Ifhe's going 
occasion leaves me with 

place last Tuesday night. My fellow students hard to believe that the area's second largest to expose himself as a right­
thoughts centered on students 

on-campus have asked if I am scared living in employer has no influence in city hall. No winger, it's just asking too 
and the role they play in the 

"that neighborhood." The truth is that I was respect, okay, but no power?much for any healthy, red­making of a good teacher. 
scared when I first saw the police cars' and So what can be done? All available housingblooded American Liberal not 
When I chose teaching as a 

heard that someone had been killed but now surrounding the University of Chicago was to attack him. Why didn't they 
profession, I chose to commit I'm not frightened at all. purchased by that institution in the 1960's. A just give him a whistle? my career for the special Off-campus Housing Director Bro. Edward move like this would eliminate some of themission of somehow influ­Luther has told us that if the-students would slumlords who now own houses off-campus.

Virginia Jung encing tht future of society and only get good locks, talk to their neighbors, and Also, crimes are committed by juveniles and,civilization ~Y ·Farticiparing in leave a few lights on that the off-campus crime obviously, adults who were once juvenilesthe formation o future genera­situation would be cleared up. themselves. Therefore, developing significant Coach explains tions of thinkers and imple­Boy, I was sure glad to hear that! For a while preventive programs that deal with juvenilementors. My brief experience there I didn't see how those simple measures delinquency_ is a logical and necessary step.
Dear Editor: indicates that my success in could stop an intruder from breakmg a window Notre Uame has talented faculty members whothis mi~sion is strongly influ­or stop a mugger from assaulting me on the could turn their research efforts toward realenced by the inquisitiveness street. I'm not really sure how these preventive community service if given support and This letter is in response to a and involvement of my stu­steps work in these cases but if the voice of the economic aid from the administration. 
letter written by Susan E. dents; not only in the particular administration says they work then they must If Notre Dame wants the recognition of majorCallan on behalf of Terri Fitz­subject being studied in a work. university let it take on the responsibilities of a simmons, which a,Ppeared in given course, but also in the It's good to know that what the sociologists mal·or umversity. Granted, students like myself The Observeron F1rday, April socio-technical areas in which and criminologists have made out to be a wil come and go but South Bend will always be 
18. their acquired knowledge can complex l?roblem is not really a problem at all. here. Unless the administration takes decisive Thank you Susan for bri~g­bear changes for the better. 
(Even if It were a problem It wouldn't be the and comprehensive steps to combat the social ing this point out . regardmg If I were an inadequate University's problem.) lt's_good to know_ct.h:c:..;;..e_,pj;...:r:..;:oc;::-blems of the city,. the .off:9f11p:us crime Terri's non-recognition at the teacher I would surely have . -aaministration is finally gTvtng-rlleSome COntrol problem Will always eXISt as well . 
Women's Athletic banguet. I destroyed their dreams and over my life (and death). It's good to know I did not forget to mentwn her turned them into inadequate can sleep soundly in my Notre Dame PJ's (even
for taking part in the Women's engineers. On the other hand, 
if they do itch). 

Swimming Championships. I ifI am an honored teacher, it is Okay, I might have believed that story three 
felt that It would have been a definite reflection of the years ago but I'm a little older now, a little more embarrassing to an­concerned, caring, and inquir­wiser, and I don't wear my ND baseball cap 
nounce Terri as one of the 5 ing students who deserve only over my eyes anymore. I'm not going to insult 
Wtlliam Flonano is a Notre Dame student who 
women taking part in the the best. It appears that the the reader's intelligence by challen~ing the Nationals; and then have to be most effective way to thank 
lives off-campus. 
extent of the University's jurisdictton with the only one not to. be honor~d them for their role in my quotes from du Lac. The limited jurisdictionwith an All Amencan Certifi­making is to keep their youth­that Bro. Luther speaks of is, simply stated, 
cate. ful dreams remembered and symptomatic of the University's long-standing
This was my reason for not my own mission reaffirmed. 
nonstated policy of noninvolvement in the including he!:. 
affairs of South Bend. The facts are that Notre
A. Murty Kanury 

I 
Dame has little regard for its students and,
Associate Professor 

more tragically, even less regard for the South 
Dennis]. Stark Aerospace Mechanical 
Bend community. 

Coach ofSwimming Engineering 
. / 
• I o • f t • • • • 1 r t·, 

Features 
Friday, April 25, 1980 -page 10 
ND Prof Uncovers lEA Scandal 
Bdit,Jr's Note: 1!1 December, 1979, Notre Damt Professor Richard S. Newfarrl.'er :mel associates Barbara I::pstein am/ Kurt Rudolf Mz'row published a re_tJort exposing the oligopolzstic .lctititie:: ofthe Interna­tional Electn'cal.1ssociat/on, :z group offifty jive Europeau ar. d j,zpanese firms attempting to control the in­ternational market for hea•'Y elec­m·cal equzpment through pn.ce-fix­ing and bid n'gging. 

Professor Richara' Newfarmer 
The international cartel is generally thought to have gone the way of the dinosaur-a once almighty beast brought to extinnion by 'he anti· trust legislation adopLc..: bv the in dustriahzed nations during the post· war period. However, the secrecv that has traditionall{ enshrouded the esoteric world o i·1fernational trade tends to emasculate these anti-trust laws and, in fact, inter­national cartels continue to exist. In a report published in December, 1979, The Continuing Cartel: Report on the International Electn'cal As­
sociation, Assistant Professor of economics Richard S. Newfarmer, member of the Notre Dame faculty since 1977, .and associates Barbara Epstein and Kurt Rudolf Mirow have exposed the activities of one of the most successful and effective of these cartels: the International Electrical Association (lEA) which through price-fixing, bid-rigging and ( market allocation earns nearly two billion dollars worth of sales a year in heavy electrical equipment. 
The lEA dates back to 1930, when six European and 2 American firms 
(International General Electric and Westinghouse Electric International) negotiated an agreement allowing firms bidding on electrical projt·cts in certain areas of the world to dis­cuss prices and terms of trade. 
A formal agreement was signed in Paris later that year outlining the firms' principal objective: regulation of exports to those regions of the world covered in the agreement­
i.e. those regions of the world that either did not have a com­petitive domestic industry, or were outside the traditional markets of member firms. In addition to these tight market allocations, technology transfers were severely prescribed. 
From this agreement, tht lEA was formally established in 1936 with a membership of 30 producers. Mem­bership declined after World War II when the US Federal trade Commis­sion used antitrust legislation to force American firms to withdraw. How­ever, with the entry of the six major 
Japanese firms in the !at~ sixties, cartel membership surged: current­ly, membership stands at 49 West European and six Japanese firms. The lEA is headquartered in Lau­sanne, Switzerland. 
Newfarmer learned of the exist­ence of the lEA four years ago while studying corporate behavior m South America. 
"I was doing n~search in Brazil in 1976. At that time, a Brazilian businessman (Kurt Rudolf Miro'V) complained to me of predatory beha­vior on the part of multi-nationals.'' Mirow claimed that a multi-national cartel was ganging-up on indepen­dent producers of heavy electrical equipment. (Heavy electrical equip­ment wi'uld include such items as turbines and large generators.) While Newfarmer found the allega­rions interesting, he thought it high-· ly ~mprobable that such a cartel could exist. 
The discovery of a 1948 report by 
the US Federal Trade Commission 
detailing the activities of the lEA 
mo fified Newfarmer's skepticism. 
Tht· FTC report "gave me some 
comprehensive idea of how firms 
collld get together at the internation­
al level. I was very surprised." A 
report by the United Kingdom Mono­
poly and Restrictive Practices Com­
mission, published in 1957, further 
documented the cartel's postwar 
activities. 
None of this evidence, however, supported Mirow' s claim that the cartel was still active. It was only when Newfarmer began to corres­pond with Barbara Epstein, vice­president of the consulting firm Horace . DePodwon Associates and author of a 1971 book on collusive arrangements in the electrical e­quipment industry, that he began to find evidence indicating recent cartel activity. 
A major breakthrough occurred in 1977 while Newfarmer was working with the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD) in Geneva. At thitt time, Newfarmer obtained copiesfM cartel contracts--contracts that provided de­fini~e ~evidence of current arrange­ments. Useful as these documents were, they did not reveal anything about the practices employed to perpetuate these arrangements. 
That information did not come until nearly two years later, in May, 1979, when a former lEA employee, un­happy with the organizauon's activi­ties, leaked several packets of intern­al memoranda to Mirow, who gave them to Epstein and Newfarmer in a meeting later that month. 

From May to December, working out of South Bend and New York, Newfarmer and Epstein met ten times to read over lEA documents together and prepare lists of ques­tions. 
"Every once in a while," New­farmer recalled, "somebody would come up with a brainstorm, and eventually, we were able to piece together the activities of the cartel." Sources inside the industry provided answers to technical questions, and by December, the economists were able to publish their findings. 
The report, paid for by Newfarmer and Epstein themselves, is unique in its descrjption and analysis of the 

market allocation and pricing dis­
cnmmation by which the cartel 
maintains its superior position in the 
international market. 
The high barrier to entry in the 
electrical equipment industry--costly 
research and development, high le­
vels of capital investment, and a 
highly specialized labor force--pro­
tects this superior position by keep­
ing the number of firms in the 
industry small, thereby facilitating 
the establishment and control of 
special agree_m_en_ts_ withint t~~ in­
dustry and mm1m1ztng compeunon. 
The lEA scored a major vicory when the six Japanese joined the cartel. "The Japanese," pointed out Newfarmer, "beginning in the early six'ties, became an .extremely-pro­competitive force in the international economy.'' The entry of thejapan­ese considerably strengthene lEA's market position by eliminating an important source of competition. 
Two impc.rtant agreements bind 
lEA members to its provisions. The 
Tendering and Contracting Agree­
ment establishes the general rules by 
which the lEA sets prices and holds 
meetings among member producers 
prior to tendering on any specific bid. 
It also outlines procedures to deal 
with breach of cartel rules and 
methods df limiting competition. 
The Export Notification Agreement (Agreement X), the central compon­ent of the cartel, requires members to notify lEA headquarters in Lausanne if they rec_eive inquiries from pro­S_{>ective buyers or decide to submit a b1d on a particular project. In this way, lEA firms can know which members are bidding on which projects and can meet before the tendering date to come to an ar­rangement. ­
Market allocation plays an impor­tant role in lEA activities. Newfar­mer discussed how these allocations evolved. ''Essentially, they were allocated historically along traditional spheres of influence ... allocation at the margins was very intense.'' Elaborate licensing agreements helped to perpetuate these traditional divisions. Extensive re-allocation took place after World War II along what Newfarmer labels "the God­father model of economics": the biggest, lowest-cost firms received the biggest market shares. 
These agreements have had an insidious effect on non-producers of heavy electrical equipment, particu­larly Third World countries. Devel­oping countries paid 129.3 percent of the reference price (the reference price is a sort of manufacturer's suggested retail price) on orders purchased from the cartel, as oppos­ed to the 99.6 percent paid by importing developed countries. 
Several factors account for this differential: the existence of anti­trust legislation developed coun­tries more frequently accept bids from only one company), and the difference in negotiating skills. 
Kate Farrell 

The artificially high costs of lEA 
products aggrev~te the chronic prob­
lems ofmany Th1rd World countries. 
Over-priced imports increase balance 
~f pa~ment deficits and fuel domestic 
mflauon, thereby widening the in­
come gap between the developed and 
developing 'nations. 
lEA activities potentially threaten the United States as well. In 1974, the lEA formulated ''Agreement Y'' whereby member firms report the value of the orders received from American bidders to Lausanne. Newfarmer explained this new inter­est in US markets. "The historical spheres of influence are breaking down, which leads to excess capacity and cross-penetration of markets. '' 
Since the US represents 50 percent of the world market for heavy electrical equipment, the lEA under­standably is interested in establish­ing an American foothold. In addition, the decline of the US dollar has made operations within the US mor_e profitable for foreign com­pames. 
The possibility of direct cartel activity having a significant impact in US markets is still relatively remote; a far more dangerous devel­opment is the threat to US export markets. In the last twenty years, many US electrical equipment firms have lost ground to European and Japanese competition, and in their report, Epstein and Newfarmer note that th~ US share of exports to countries within the lEA market area has fallen. Decline in exports contributes to the US balance of payment problem as well as domestic unemployment. 
What action has been taken in the wake of the revelations of the Newfarmer-Epstein report? The report received widespread press coverage, with major articles appear­ing i'l the Washington Post, the German newsweekly Der Speigel, and the Financial Times of London. 
·More concretely, watchdog agen­cies and committees of the US government--the Federal Trade Com­mission, congressional committees, the Justice Department--are investi­gating cartel activity in the US for possible breaches of anti-trust law. 
The success of these investiga­tions, however, is problematic; un­less it can be proved US markets have been adversely affected, no legal action can be taken. 
Newfarmer thinks that even if charges are not brought against the lEA, its effectiveness has been considerably weakened. "It's my feeling that despite its track record of success, the key to the cartel is secrecy, so the more publicity, the more 'sunshine' we can put on the cartel, the more difficult we can make its survival."­
Kate Farrell is an Economics major form Men·on, PA, and is Features Editor. 
...Rape 

[continued from page 11) 
Security forces stress basic ~afety techniques that are meant to prevent confrontations between rapist and student. Glen Terry h_as encouraged groups like the so~ to speak to _students and secunty personnel alike. Security also provides escort services to t_he .edges of the Campus, although they complain tha_t the ~emand for ndes someumes makes it difficult for them to comply 1rt1m~d1ately to all requests. Rakow estimates Security handles 15-20 calls a mght. . 
One problem Rakow claims he faces often enough 1s t~e rumor of a rape 
that never happened. Certain suspicious acts have m the past been 
misconstrued as sexual assaults and later proved to be false. 
How suct:essful has this new campaign been? According to Security, no on-campus assault has been reported since November. Its continued effectiveness depends on the joint efforts of both students and Security to ::ombat rape. 
• l 
• 

J 
Features 


Friday, Apri125, 1980 -page 11 
LEITERSTO A LONELY GOD 
Think Deeply, Dream Bravely 
Rev. Robert Griffin 
~n a Friday night in Denny's, not very exciting. But you wouldn't 
to be graceful. "It could be your 
changed majors. He would have
dunng the second semester of his know that, unless you hafl heard 
Christmas gift to me," she said, "to , 
enough credits to get a degree in
Sophomore year, she told h~m: ...1 Bernstein conducting Fidelio. '' 
take dancing lessons.'' He could see 
government.
could never marry a man who The least he could do, he decided, ' 
himself, practicing a disco step with 
doesn't read." He thought it was to audit .a. course in Music While eating ice cream in a 
some widow at the Fred Astaire
reasonable that, as an English Appreciation during the spring se­HoJo's in early April, she told him 
· studio, and he felt it would be
mester. :: she had seen a guy at home during
major, she should want a soul-mate 
humiliating. 
the spring break. "We used to
with whom she could discuss Faulk­
They were having drinks, while "Couldn't . you. teach me?" he date," she said, "and I really feel
ner and Eliot; l>ut she said that she 
waiting for a table at the Moonraker, said. 

sorry for him. He needs me much
considered it an inferior mind that 
after the Southern Cal game in late 

"I would be glad to help you," more than you do."
didn't also know Proust. Although 
November, when she told him how 

she said, "after you've learned some He sat there, hurt and angry,
he was a Chern Engineer, as a step 
much she had always admired 

basic steps ... '' She danced well looking at her, thinking of pushing a
toward self-improvement, he regis­
football players:-"My dad was a 

enough to be considered almost sugar cone up her nostrils. 
tered for a course in Major American 
football player," she said. "In his 

professional, she said; her dancing "You've always been so self-suffi­
W:-iters for his Junior year, and 
Senior year, many--sportswriters coach had compared her to Margot cient, so independent,'' she ~aid;
hoped to find a similar course in the 
thought he should have won the 

Fonreyn. She was afraid if she gave "but he's a leaner. He's got too
Bntish writers for his Senior year. 
Heisman Trophy." The last of the 

lessons .to amateurs, it would spoil much potential for me to want to see
Proust, he left for summer reading; 
heroes, she said, -were football 

-hernwn style. "Having dreamed as him fail." 
and though he found reading Proust 
players and astronauts. A woman, 

a little girl of becom10g a prima "Knowing you," he said finally,
very tough, during]uly and August 
raising children, she thought, would 

baOerina," she said, "I've always "has really been an education."
he battled his way through a coupl~ 
be lucky to be able to point to the needed to be selfish about whom I "You're too strong," she said, "to
of volumes of Remembrance of 
childre~:s father, and say: "He was 7 

danced with, as a protective way of be bitter.'' ·
Things Past. When he wrote to tell 
a hero. keeping that young dream immacu­"What," he said,)"does Young
her he had just finished "Swann's 
"I was· thinking," he said, "of 

late." Jellyfish use for a spine? How does 
Way," She replied: "I hope you 
training for the--Bengal Bouts.'' 

--T~e . fir~:t night,_ ~ack, at the he keep himself alive?" 
read it in French. I would .be so 
"Boxing," she answered, "would 

beg1nnmg of the1r Semor year, they "If you mean, where does he
disappointed to think you know 
probably be helpfulin workin~ off celebrated the end of summer with a work," she said, "he has a part-time
Proust only in translation.'' 
aggressions. But there's no sc1ence dinner at the Boar's Head, and she job in a fast food restaurant in
The next fall, in October, during a 
in boxing. Football is a scientific asked him if he had thought about Saginaw. Eventually, he J?lans to go
Sunday night supper at Bill 
sport, requiring brains as well as the future. "During the summer," to University of Michigan med
Knapp's, she asked him to take her 
brawn." she said, "I read a biography of school.''·
to Chicago so that they could attend 
He said that he thought boxing, as ] ustice Oliver Wendell Holmes." He said: "Only a Nobel-prize
the opera. Living so close to 
a sport, w~ terrifically scientific. She thought he should read it, too. deserving nervey broad like you'' -it
Chicago, she said, they simply must 
"Maybe so," she--said, "but I'd 

He sa1d that, e-ventually, there surprised both of them to hear him
make up their minds to go to the 
be embarrassed to watch you in the 

were lots of books he intended to use the dated word broad, like Frank 
opera, the symphony, and the art 
Bengal Bouts. I mean, it's not as read. She. said he should read about Sinatra playing tough-' 'would try
galleries as often as they could. 
though you had to do something to :J ust;ce Holmes that very night, to turn Ronald McDonald into Albert 
"When I'm alone in my room," she 
prove yourself macho. If you need while his academic options for the Schweitzer. Good luck!" He left
said, "I never listen to anything but 
exercise, you could take up jogging, semester were still open. Such a her to. pay the check, and find her
classical music on the FM stations'. I 
and we could do it together.'' 

book might lead him to Qteative own nde home.
don't know what I would do without 
He hated the thought of jogging; ·decisions. There are a million broken hearts
my Bartok.'' 
but she bought him adidas for hts "In May, he said, ''I'll have my for every bright light on the Great
He had played the French horn in 
birthday, so he had to run with her, dt'gree in Engineering." White Way, he thought, driving
the band in h1gh school; but most of 
or she would have felt him to be "You don't dream bravely home. Over the Golden Arches, the
the band repertory was Hit Songs for 
ungrateful. enough," she said. "you don't think signs tell you the grim statistics of
Rogers and Hammerstein, and show 
They were having a three a.m. deeply enough." · the billions of burgers sold. Behind
tunes like "The Impossible Dream." 
breakfast at the Golden Bear, after "You'd hke me to become a every burger, he thought, there
1\s a surprise that he thought would 
her spring formal in April, when she lawyer?" he said. must be a dozen stories, of success
please her, he got both of them 
complained her feet hurt, because he ''The way Holmes wrote of the or failure, of strong women who
season tickets for the concerts of the 
had stepped on them so much during Law as a noble profession a man stand behind their men to try to
South Bend Symphony. 
the dancing. He apologized for his 

might faiJ:h fully serve," she said, make them_ great.
''Poor dear,'' she said, ''for you, I 
clumsiness. She said that it was 

"made shivers run down my spine."
suppose, it's a start; but as sym­Father Gnffin, University Chap­
funny, it was really funny; but she The next day, because he had
phony orchestras gu, South Bend's lain, is a regular Features columnist. 
dido' t think he was relaxed enough 

thought a little about it himself, he 
ND Security & SOS Confrqnt RapeSaiGratiata 
Assistant Notre Dame Security Chief Bob Rakow hunches forward in his W~en Security is notified that a rap~. had taken place, they phone the chair, answers a question, pauses, then adds a thought of his own: "The hospital and the county Law Office (cnme on the Notre Dame Campus only thing worse than rape is having your life taken." Each year, Notre c?mes under county jurisdiction). .The hospital in turn alerts the SOS who Dame makes a conscientious effort to eliminate the threat of rape on dispatches a tea~ to meet the girl ~t . the hospital. But while Security campus. Yet at least once every semester, an on-campus sexual assault is recommend~ medica~ treatment for victims of any assault, the decision to reported to Security -and there are always the ones that go unreported. accept .or reJ~ct medical ~eatment rests. solely with the victim. 
A campus ra~e during USC weekend last October triggered a renewed . The 10vesngators admit that the chances of catching a rapist are slim, Security campatgn. Chief Glen Terry "went to talk with the Sex Offense sir:tce there are !Dan[ variables th~t. complicate the investigation of this Staff, the Rape Awareness Group_ and expanded the investigating staff,'' cnme. The emotiona state of the victim, for example, has a crucial impact Rakow said. The Sex Offense Staff (SOS), a South Bend group dedicated to on t~e acc~ra~y of.~he inform~tion .she gives ~n~ the subsequent course of rape ~revention and proper treatment for the victims of rape, advised the 10vestiganon. In these situations, the v1cttm often blocks the details Secunty on questions of counseling victims. The Rape Awareness Group, out of ~er mind, they occur to her later," Frazier comments. Good formed by students and administration officials, was organized after the counsel10g can often help the victim remember crucial facts. ''The last October incident to alert students to the threat of campus rape, and it also time, I went right to the hospital (with the victim) -She got stronger and had a large role in shaping the campaign. As an additional measure to beef «;lecided to go back and show us where it happened.'' up the Security staff, Terry promoted Night Time Investigator Liz Frazier W,~en asked w~at a girl should do when confronted by a rapist, Frazier to Special Investigator handling women's complaints. c?nsiders the opnons; figh~, flight or submission. She thinks there is little a 
Frazier has now dropped into Rakow's office. The first thing you notice girl can do when h~r assai~ant draws a weapon. ''The more physical you about Frazier is that she's young (the whole Department's getting are, the more physical he IS-you can scream-but if he hits you my younger, says Rakow,) and quite soon you discover that she's sharp and suggestion would be to do what he says, but keep an eye out fo~ an ready to draw on three years of Law Enforcement experience. She handles escape.'' The best escape !Dechanism. seems to be ''do the unexpected'': a all types of crimes: assaults, verbal and physical, obscene phone calls -few calm words or a surpnse lunge wtth a weapon can attract the attention any crime involving the women of the ND community. of a passerby or erovide the opportunity to run to safety. 
"Experience is more thorough training than any bookwork you can The overwhelnii~umb.er ofrapes and assaqlts committed on the Notre have," Frazier observes. Concerning rape, she says treating the victim Dame Campus are commttted by off-campus people. Rakow thinks that requires "a lot of plain common sense. That means not saying the wrong "tht; stu~ent' ~ lifestyl~, lends itself to becoming a victim -late nights, things and being comforting. I've never had any problems with any of the mov1es, hbrar1es, bars. Students ~c;nerally. aren't aware of what is going girls I've had to speak with, the girls say they find it easier to talk with on about them and develop an obhv10us attitude to dangerous situations. another woman." "Ev~ry one of those girls said 'I didn't think it would happen. to me'," 
Rakow adds, "We learned from the SOS that it's their (the victims') Fraz1er says. choice to talk to us. It's the responsibility of the investigator to take it easy. Alth~>Ug~ the campus is considered well-lit and relatively safe for women 
We don't have that many cases a year, but it's the victim's prerogative to travelhn~ 10 grou~s ?f three and greater, Se~urity admits two major dark report an incident, .although we encourage them." spots ex1st. One .•s 10 the field by the tenms courts, a prime route for 
"Confidentiality," Rakow continues, "ts the main issue, even before the students commut10g between the school and Campus View. The other legal issue." Frazier ~grees, "Definitely, .any report I've ~ade with the co~sists of the construction sites by Flanner and Grace. Rakow doesn't girls I've had to deal With has been kept pnvatt" They are dtscussed only th10k joggers are in jeopardy as long as they adhere to well-lighted and within the Chiefs office and even then I lay them directly on his desk inside popular routes. Frazier doesn't believe it's a good idea for women to run an envelope." alone. [continued on page 10) 
-


The Observer -SportsBoard Friday, April25, 1980 -page 12 
Interhall Girl's Soccer Off-Campus 1, Holy Cross 0 (OT) Breen-Phllllps 1, Walsh 0 championship Off-Campus vs. Breen-Phillips, 10 a.m. Saturday  Hockev NHL PLAYOFFS Last Night's Game Minnesota 5, Montreal 2, series tied 3-3 Sunday's Game Minnesota at Montreal (Game 7)  Bookstore Girl's Tournament Total Class over Looney Rooney's by 4 · Hot Stuff over Ryan's Hope by 8 B.J.'s Blowoff• over J.D.'s Call Girls by 4 One Varsity Player & 4 Girls ·;;: ~ Couldn't Make the Teanr over Basic 500 by 13  Men's Tournament Today's Garnes at Bookstore P.F. and the Flyers vs. Jayne Kennedy, 6:15 Born to Run w;. Much Later WEB, 6:15 Strappamasquon vs. US, 7:00 Defendini Chumps vs. Head Over Heels, 7:0'0  Basketball NBA PLAYOFFS Tonight's games Boston at Phil<!delphla 8:00(Game 4) Los Angeles at Seattle, 11:30  



Molarity 

PLU5 71115/ NV .4aVAL COORT06E WHICH WE'RE $~P TO REIID OIJJT LOUD To ffl~t.nc£. HER£, Ytu BE" 


Pigeons 
I, 
ACROSS  L3  Rainbow:  
Prcture  comb. form  
puzzle  24  Clairvoy­ 
6  Space  ance  
saucer  27  Correspon­ 
9 Stage  dence  
whisper  29  Taking a  
14  Blessed  cruise  
or marn  30  Numerical  
15  Legendary  prefix  
brrd  33  Brants  
16  Showy  34  Prose  
flower  romances.  
17  Hannibal- old style  
18  Heavy  35  Result of  
dnnker  baskrng  
20  EPA's  37  Feelings of  
concern  loathing  
22  Commandment 39  -impulse  
word  (be rash)  
YeSterday"s Puzzle Solved:  

 



,, r r,, r  4/ !5/  


~BUS SCHEDULE FOR 
''UNDER MILKWOOD''! 
t~RIL 25,26 MAY 1,2,3) :25pm STMARY'S (LEMANSHALL)--~ CENTURY CENTER 
(BENDIX THEATRE) 

-
!O:OOpm CENTURY CENTER-----Z ( BENDIX THEATRE) STMA (LEMANSHALL} 
40 Pakistan 1 Ziegfeld 
42 ~~icerve 8 ~~~~enrn~ 
43 Ostnch kin 9 Plant pest 44 Thin layer'3 10 Dispel 46 Sun. talk 11 Maladies 
47 Loser to 12 "How-love 
Carter the?" 48 That is: 13 Short tnp: Lat. abbr. 51 Beverage 19 A Skinner 
herb 21 Fur animal 55 Dockhand 25 Bristles 57 For -26 Old hat 
(cheap) 28 Novice 58 Do -(rn: 29 Ror,;an domrtable) bronze 59 Mrneral 10 Autocrats earth 31 Lace trim 60 Scandina-32 Mediate 
vran 34 Defenders 61 Small anvil 36 Crushing 62 Theodore. snake 
to fnends 38 -the hole 63 Scoff 41 Pyreness 
republrc DOWN 44 Invalid Brblical 45 Spree ruler 47 Armada 
2 Maurice of 49 Great 
the stage amount 3 Posrtron 50. On edge 4 Roman 52 Rara ­
writing 53 Marsh plant 5 Fastenrng 54 Ripener tool 55 Tosspot 6 Soviet 56 Three, river in Rome 
Baseball ­

by Michael Molinelli 

NATIONAL LEAGUE East 
w L Pet. G~ 

Pittsburgh 8 4 .667 Chicago 6 4 .600 1 Montreal 5 6 .455 2112 Philadelphra 5 6 .455 21/2 New York 5' 7 .417 3 St. Loul~ 5 7 .417 3 . 
Wast 

Cincinnati 12 2 .857 Houston 8 5 .615 3Y2 Los Angeles 7 7 .500 5 San Diego 6 7 .462 5Y2 San Francisco 4 10 .286 8 Atlanta 3 9 .250 8 
by Jim Mcdure/Pat Byrnes 
Th d
~.!1 r"­

e.lJdlly u.osswor 
4/25/80

© 1980 by Chicago Tribune-N.Y. News Synd. Inc. All Rights Reserved 
Yesterday's Games 

Atlanta 8. San DieQo 7 Los Angeles 5, San Francisco 2 (10
innings) 
Today's Games 

Pittsburgh (Rooker 2-0) at Chicago (Reuschel 1-1) Montreal (Lee 0-2) at Atlanta (McWilliams 0·2), (n) St. Louis (Vuckovlch 2-1) at Philadelphia (Lerch 0-1}, (n) New York (Falcone 1·0) at Houston (Richard 2-0), (n) San Diego (Wise 1-1} at Los Angeles • (Sutcliffe 0-1), (n) Cincinnati (Bonham 1-0) at San Francis· co (Blue 2-1 ), (n} 
AMERICAN LEAGUE East 

w  L  Pet.  GB  
Milwaukee  6  5  .545  
New York  7  6  .538  
Boston Toronto  65 .  6 6  .500 .455  Y2 1  
Baltimore  5  8  .385  2  
Detroit  4  9  .308  3  
Cleveland  3  8  .273  3  
Wast  
Oakland Chicago  10 9  4 4  .714 .692  1f2  
Texas  8  5  .615  11!2  
Kansas City  7  .6  .538  2112  
Seattle  8  7  .533  21!2  
Minnesota  6  8  .429  .  4  
·  California  5  7  .417  4  

Yesterday's Game 

Chicago 9, Boston 3 Only Game Scheduled 
Today's Games 

Boston (Eckersley 1-1) at Detroit (Schatzeder 0·3)Oakland (Keough 3·0) at Minnesota (Koosman 1-1} Texas (Pen y 1-1) at Cleveland (Waits 
1-1), (n) Chicago (Baumgarten 1-0) at New York (Figueroa 1·1 ). (n}
1 Toronto (I.P-manczyk 1-2) at Milwaukee (Sorenson 1-. 1• (n) Baltimore (Stone 1-1) at Kansas City IGura 1-1), (n•)California (Aase 1-1} at Seattle (Parrott 1-2), (n) 
.;·~~
..; 
•. 


'Friday, April25, 1980 -page 13 ·
The Observer 
r----------------------~-----~ 
I 25¢save . save 25¢ I
A new breed of Yankees 
CHICAGO-In the transient world of athletics a world where stars come and go like sun~hin'e on a South Bend spring day, a few constants have managed to survive. Players and teams that remain enamored in the mind and soul regardless of records or ·:alendar year. 
Legends? Perhaps. But there aren't too many. In fact, there are only a few. . 
Like the New York Yankees; the standard of excellence in profe">sional baseball. The Boys trom the Bronx. The Pinstripes. The Yankees have a list of nicknames as long as the list of all-stars that have played on their roster and they've won more world championships than maybe any five teams combined. 
And, along the way, they've picked up quite a following. Not only in New York, but around the world. The old timers that remember seeing the B.a~e clobber one or Gehrig standing o~ deck wamng to do the same thing. The mtddle-aged men who watched because their fathers watched and saw DiMaggio and Mantle and Berra and Whitey Ford. My father always talks of DiMaggio. He says there never was a player like him. He says there never will be. And I thought about all of that when I went to Chicago to see the Yankees play the White Sox. 
I guess I was excited, like the first time I saw Joe Namath play or that day I walked into Notre Dame Stadium for the first time. Sports will do t~at to you if you are willing and can ignore the vmegary cynics that insist it's only a game. Hey, I'm gonna see the New York Yankees for the first ume and it's gonna be great! 
And what a perfect place . for a memory. Comiskey Park sits on the south side of Chicago only a few blocks away from the police-patrolled home where Mayor Richard Daley ran Chicago for so many years. A quaint little neighbor­hood, it bears no resemblance to the streets where Bad, Bad Leroy Brown wreaked havoc in the old Jim Croce song. You don't even need a baseball game to have a good time at Comiskey. There's picnic grounds, and center field bleachers, and even an old time sing-a­long with Harry Caray during the seventh­innmg stretch. Now I can hardly carry a tune, but I belted out the chorus of' 'Take Me Out ot the Ballgame" like a member of the Vienna Boys Choir. Harry is even better than Mitch Miller. 
But it was the Yankees I'd come to see, and maybe I expected too much. Where was DiMaggio and_ Mantle? Aren't Maris and Casey Stengel here? And the Pinstripes! Aren't they supposed to wear Pinstripes with , the button-down shirts and the fancy "NY" emblazoned on their chests? 
These Yankees wear double-knit designer 
uniforms made of (What?) polyester?~ But 
that's the way things are now. A sign of the 
times, no doubt. 
In DiMaggio's place is Reggie Jackson. The 
Yankees raised DiMaggio. They brought him 
up, gave him a glove, told him to make great 
catches and home runs, and he did. Jackson, 
on the other hand, is a different story. While 
DiMaggio was home-grown, Jackson is a foster 
child. The Yankees bought him, gave him a 
glove, told him to make great catches and hit 
home runs, and he did. Sometimes. At other 

Frank .LaGrotta 

times he dropped routine at called third strikes, and complained to anyone with a pencil or a microphone that he was trying, the others .were not. 
DiMaggio talked too much with his bat. Jackson talks too much with his mouth. But Reggie has one thing over Joltin' Joe; he looks much better in polyester. 
Then there's Rich Gossage. 
"Crack!" 

His warm-up pitches sound like gunshots when they hit the catcher's mitt. 
"Thud!" 

Bullpen catcher Johnny Oates squints his eyes 
and flinches on every pitch, like a kid caught 
with his hand in the cookie jar who knows he's 
about to get slapped. 
''Pop!'' 

Goose Gossage makes it all look easy. The 
Yankees are sure lucky to have him, huh? And 
the Pirates, who had him before the Yankees. 
And the White Sox, who had him before the 
Pirates. His fast ball smokes ,Jike-another 
Pinstripe pitcher of 20-year vintage. 

Whitey ford won the Cy Young Award for the 
'!ankees_ m 1~61. Goose Gossage might win it 
10 1980 JUSt ltke Sparky Lyle dtd in 1977 and 
Ron Guidry did in 1978.· Ford started and 
finished his career with the Yankees.· Lyle 
departed the year after he won the award. 
Guidry is unhappy with the money he's making 
and says he might want to leave when he 
becomes a free agent. 

If Gossage wins it, I wonder where he' II go 
next? 

But· anyway, the stands at Comiskey were 
pretty much empty because of the 30-degree, 
.weather but the. 6,000 contained (at least it 
seemed like) as many Yankee fans as home­
team rooters. My dad said it would be that 
way. He said the Yankees have a following 
wherever they go. 

So when the White Sox and the Yankees went 
into the 13th inning, tied at three, the crowd 
pretty much split in their loyalties. It caused 
quite a few arguments and even a few 
''call-in-the-security-guards'' fights. 

I_n the 13th, in the Yankees loaded the bases 
wtth two men out, and catcher Rick Cerrone 
came up to the plate. Cerrone, the replacement 
for the late Thurman Munson, is a youngster. 
Yankee fans know that. In fact, when he came 
to the plate in this critical situation, a New York 
supporter stood up in front of us and yelled to 
the crowd: 

"Now we'll see if this kid is a real Yankee." 
C~rrone struck out on four pitches and the 
Ch1cago rooters berated the old fan unmerci­
fully. 

"_Guess Cerr~me isn.'.t a ~eal Yankee," they 
ch.1ded sarcastically. He JUSt don't belong on 
thts team.'' 

Unfortunately, neither do most of his team­
mates. 

~save ---THE HUDDLE save 
I 
. BIG FRY
& . ONlY 79¢ BIG DRINK with coupon 
EXPIRES 5/2/80. 
savesave 

25¢ save save 25¢ 
L----------------------------­
Going Home?? 
U+IAUL 
For Reservation Come to the Tom Doolev Room (inside the Huddle) April 22-25 28-30 May1 &2 Master Char 



SUMMER STORAGE Master Mini-Warehouses 683-1959 or 683-6889 -at the state line on US 31 
-about 2.5 miles north of campus 
Sports Briefs.______ 
SMC, NDnetters clash Sunday 
The Saint Mary's tennis team will clash with Notte Dame Sunday at lO a.m. in the Angela Athletic Facility. The Belles begin their spring season this weekend when they travel to Depauw and Indiana State before hosting the Irish. Freshman Patsy Coash, number-one singles player for Saint Mary's, will attempt to add to her undefeated string of 13 straight matches won during the fall season. Notre Dame was a 7-2 victor over the Belles last September. 
SUPER SOCCER 
Notre c~ame Stadium .Sta.rting at 2:00 p.nl. 
Sorcer Doubleheader: 


• M·innesc .~ Kic;~~t:~ v-s. Chicago Sting · Notre Dame vs. Tri·S~?,•a · ·· 
General admission ticket·s $ 3. 50 at· the gate. Sponsored by the South Bend Symphony 
See ydu there! 

..--------... 
....-----~----:.;-------~----~------­
The Observer -Sports Friday, April25, 1980 -page 14 
' 
' ~ ' 
I 
' 
' 
! ' 
I 
I 
I 
l 
,
, 
,r 
' 
,' 
' 
r 
I I 
[continuedfrom page 16] 
Blocking field goals isn't Crable's only talent. His quick

...Crable 
pursuit and crunching hits on running backs and wide receiv­


'I JUSt like to watch hiiD play, he's so good," Crable says. "But I don't fed I try to imitate his style.'' 
"Well, maybe a little," he finally concedes. 
Crable's exceJ?tional athletic ability earned him varsity let­ters in three sports at Moeller High: football, basketball, and baseball. And anyone who has been watching this year's Bookstore Basketball Tourna­ment can attest to the fact that Crable is no slouch on the asphalt. His team, ''The Ass­assins" (which also includes footballers Tony Hunter and Nick Vehr, along with Scott and Curt Bailey), advanced to the "Sweet 16" before falling to Jayne Kennedy on Wednes­day night, 27-25, in overtime. The defeat, though, was no fault of Crable's -he scored eight points on 16 shots and pulled down key rebounds in the overtime. 
Breen-Phzllips hall basketball team, winners of the 1980 Women's Interhall Basketball Championship, are picturedabove. They include[/ tor]: First Row-Cathy Walsh Coach Pete Sullivan, Coach Craig Zeboltj, a~Jd Kafhleen McManus. Second Row -Peggy 'owens, jan Schlaf!, Tracy Blake, Bea Wztzleoen, Karen Aleg, and Kathy McMahon. Not pictured-Lisa Lom6ardi, Reth Conlisk. [photo by joel Amzable] · 
r-oovoli'N'EEDARmt1o--,r . 
I O'HARE? 1\ ...Soccer
I 1we go from south bend/mishawaka 1 I 
1 3timeS daily Ill [continued from page 16] 
I I and Steve Berry have gotten 
1 All FOR ONLV I plentyofwork. Berry, who also
1 I I sees time at halfback, is work­~ Sllooone way $39 oo round trip I ~~g J~f;~~~t-y's ol~ swpper spot 1 There will be ·many more 
I I bodies on the field Sunday for
UNITED LIMO INC 255 3068 I Hunter searching for their
I . • place in the future of Ir~sh
1--------------------------.1. soccer. Mario Manta,· Jay
Schwartz, and Matt Stolwyk at forward, Steve Burgoon, Steve Kni.eme.r, and Mike Sullivan at
.ICELWlAIR ID EUROPE­
haltback, and Gerard Mc­
Carthy at goaltender are just a few. 
"We won't have too many replacements to make this year in terms of first team players,'' 
ONA

BIGBIRII 
Hunter says with optimism. ''It's gone very well so far. I think the guys are anxious to start the regular season.''
WWUFARE 
At least to get a change of scenery once in a while. 
Soccer Notes -Tri-State was the victim in Notre Dame's second varsity win ever in 1977 in a 3-0 affair. McCurrie, Ciuoi, Burgoon, Mai, and Franklin are the only remain­ing players from the original Irish squad. Hunter's three­year record as coach stands at 57-14-3. 

Roundtrop from Roundtrip 

~ew York from Chicago 
Rulli's ­
to Luxembourg to Luxembourg 
No restrictions 
Confirmed reservations • free wine with dinner, cognac aher • no re~rriclions on stays to I yr. or advance purchase. Prices valid from l'.S. from \-larch 10 thru \-lay 14, 1980. All schedules and prices subjeCt 10 change and government approval. Purchase tickets in the l'.S. 
~ FREE 

lsee;:-t:;a;;n~;::::~ept.-;C:\ --------1' lcelandair P.O. Box 105, West Hempstead, NY 11552. Call in NYC, 757-8585; .elsewhere, call 800-555-1212 for the 
Call 232-1883 and
toll-free number in your area. Please ~end me: 0 An lcelandair flight timetable. 0 Your European Vacations brochure. 
Pasquale Rulli will dellvet 
Name___________________________________ 
Address---------------­
yout pi.zza1FREE
City---------------------------------­

State------------Zip•----------­
Keep An Tostal rolling, getyour pizza delivered 

ers have prompted some fans cidence, perhaps, Lambert just to compare him to some of the happens to be Crable's favorite NFL's best, including the football player, but he stresses Steelers' all-pro middle line­that he does not try to emulate backer, Jack Lambert. By coin-th~. Pi~tsburgh star. . 
In his sophomore year at 
Tracksters travel...again 
by Matt Huffman Sports Writer 
The much-traveled Notre Dame track squad is on the road again_. This weekend, howe:v~r, will feature two separate Itin­eraries for the squad. On Friday, April25,the prestigious Drake Relays will be attended by Heasf Coach Joe Pi?.nt; and half the Irish squad. Assistant Coach Ed Kelly, himself a former Notre Dame trackman, will rake the remaind'er of the squad to the Ball Statt> Relays 
in Muncie, Ind. on Saturday, April 26. . · 
The Drake Relays will feature nearly all relays and only a few individual events. The two­mile relay will be on the weekend slate, ordinarily the event is not part of the outdoor agenda. 
The relay addition is all the better for Coach Piane's team because of the Irish' outstand­ing two-mile relay team. In 1978 the Irish finished second at the Drake event. The 1980 edition of the team will feature 
· three of the four runners from the '78 squad. Joining Seniors Jay Miranda and Pete Burger and junior Chuck Aragon will be iunior Tim Macauley. Fifth-year assistant Kelly will lead the rest of the team to Muncie. A field of 20 teams is expected, including Northwes· 
Moeller High, Crable was the starting center c;n an overshad­owed basketball team, and he averaged about 16 points a game. 
"I wasn't too bad, actually," he says modestly. "I only played one year, th<?ugh. Aft~r that, I played on a city team m Cincinnati.'' 
Crable also played three years of varsity baseball, play­mg ''just about everywhere,'' as he puts it. "I was a pretty decent hitter (he hit well over .300 for his career), ami they 
had to find  a place for me in  
the lineup.  I played outfield,  
first  base,  shortstop,  second  

base, you name it." .. _ Crable was also a promismg 
young pitcher in his sophomore 
year, but hun his arm, thus 
ending his pitching l·areer. 

But Crable's best sport, by far, is football. And, barring any unforeseen injury, Crable. will don the now-familiar #43 green jersey and take his position at middle linebacker when the Irish open the 1980 campaign Sept~mber 6 against Purdue at Notre Dame Stad­IUm. 
tern, Indiana, and Kentucky. Coach Piane is hoping this will add some needed experience to that part of the squad which has not seen a great deal of acti9n this year. 
The Irish return home on May 3 to host Eastern Michi­gan. 
...Short 

[continued from page 16] 
"We weren't what you'd call 

top-ten material,'' laughs the 
redhead, "but we had a great 
time playing." 
The next year, Short joint d Brian Kilbane, Jerry Ander­son, Paul Riehle and tourn­ament commissio~er, Leo Latz, to form a team called Com­missioner Fatz. It was this team that made it to the ''Sweet Sixteen'' and came close ro upsetting the vaunted TILCS of Dave Batton. 
"We were the 'underdog in ~very game," re~alls -.Short, 
·and that made It twtce as 

much fun. The crowds love the 
underdogs in this tournament 
so we had a big following that 
showed up for every game." 
Of course, the Chumps also play in front of a packed house every time they take the court. But now the shoes are on the other feet. 
"Now we're the favorite aud everyone boos us," he says. 
Everyone, that is, except the loyal group of Chumps fans that incliide Short's ~irlfriend, Amy Verardi who joms Hanz­lik's girlfriend, Mary Beth Horne, on the sidelines for every game. But the girls are in the vocal minority. 
"I wish I could play with the guys on this team, and that we could be the underdog for a change,'' suggests Short. 
But he knows that's impos­sible with guys like Bill Hanz­lik, Tom Sudkamp, Chris Muhlenkamp and Rusty Lisch on the roster. Not to mention himself, something the modest Short rarely does. 
"Hey, those guys are the players," he emphasizes. "I'm JUSt out here to have a good time." 
Forget it, Short. The Chumps' secret weapon ain't a secret anymore. 
.. 
• • I 


------.· 
Friday, April25, 1980 -page 16
SJ>orts 
Multi-talented Crable shines in football, Bookstore 
by Chns Needles season, Crable is very optimist-and blocked Bryan Virgil's Sports Wnter ic, despite the presence of last-second field goal attempt. Southern Cal, Alabama, Pur-The block enabled Notre Dame 
As a pro~uct of ~incinr:ati's due, Michigan, and others on to upset Michigan, 12-10,· and ~oeller Htgh, Insh f!!lddle the schedule. set off campus-wide pande­h~ebacker Bob Crable 1s ob~ "We've got a lot of enthusi-monium. ywusly not .accustomed to los-asm,'' states the Irish tri-capt-''That was something I had mg. footb~ll ga~es. In fact, ain. "And that, I feel, is a good always dreamt about," Crable durmg ~1s enure . four-year sign. Plus, we. have a lot of laughs. "It wasn't a set plan. career wtth the Ohto power-players returmng who have We just did it on the spur-of­house the team lost a grand some experience under their the-moment. I still can't be-total of one football ~arne -belts. But the enthusiasm is lieve that something like that that coming during ht~ frc:;sh-the key. happened to me." man year. In Crable s lmal "The defense has been do-[continued p 14]three years there, Moeller in~ well so far in the spring on age High won three state champ-dnlls " Crable continues. ionships, and middle linebac_k-"we'~e looking good on the Drills resume er Crable paced the defense m goal line drills, but we're a little tackles all three years. weak on the third and nine 
On~ c~fl. see _th~t .~otre drills. I think we'll be all right after snowfall Dame s dtsappomtmg . 7-4 when we get our injured play-record last year was qune a ers back, though." 
Spring is back in South Bend change of pace for the then-Crable himself is nursing an ... after 90-degree tempera­sophomore Crable. But the injury, a slight shoulder sprain tures on Tuesday, students1 ?79 s~a~on was far from he suffered last Saturday. But woke up Thursday morning todtsappomung for Bob Crable. he feels it is not serious, and find it snowing outside ... but~he 6-3_. 220_ pounder ~stab-he should be ready for next . 

head coach Dan Devine hadhshed htmself as the mamstay Saturday's annual Blue-Gold

of an in~xperienced, yet cal-game. --------------------~ ented, Insh defense. He led Last season Crable had his Spring Football '80 the squad in tackles and, at moments in the spotlight quite 
~!ready planned to give hisseason's end, ~as chosen ~n often, moments he hopes to troops the day off_,. .. the Irish honorable mentw.n All-A~enca duplicate this season. Who can will resume worKouts on Fri­forget his bone-jarring tackles day, and will have some type ot that repeatedly flattened scrimmage Saturday on Cawer

Charl~WhlreinilieSouiliem 
Field, weather permitting ...

Cal game? And, of course, no the ream won't get in itsone will forget what many maximum allotment of 20 prac­people feel was the highlight of tices before the 50th annualthe 1979 Irish season: when Blue-Gold game Saturday, May Crable jumped on the back of a 3 in Notre Dame Stadium.
Michigan offensive lineman 
by Cary Crassey soccer program ts the depth passing the baiL" Sports Wn.ter Hunter referred to. John Milligan has been on For 1Chumps' 
"There have always been a top of his game in the nets for After chasing each other few highly skilled ballJ?layers Notre Dame this spring. The around the A.C.C., Stepan and here,'' returning cap tam and junior goalie started 19 games 
Short stands tall 
Carrier Fields for the past few fifth year student Dannie Me­last fall and has a miserly .791 b.Y Frank T_,aGrotta Rusty Lisch --Starringmonths, Notre Dame's soccer Currie says. "There didn't goals against average. 
Sports Wn"ter quarterback for the football
players have started to get a used to be much past the first In front of Milligan, Hunter bit, tired of the same old five. The defense was always is attempting to replace his ream. Has played on two smiling faces. good. But now the rest are most severe graduation losses The smart money in this consecutive Bookstore champ­
year's Bookstore Basketball ionship reams. 
, The team's reprieve comes carchin~ up in skills and there -Tom Luetkehans and stop­tournament has to be Chris Muhlenkamp--Big,Sunday afternooQ in Notre Dame really Isn't much difference per Tom Crotty. Jim Stein has on the Defending Chumps. Seriously, strong, makes the difference
Stadium when the Irish host between the first two teams. ~ done his rime as a pupil at Tri-State in a spring wrap-up There's a lot of depth out fullback and is the most exper-folks. If ever a ream was inside. Can shoot when he has 
. ienced returnee. Oliver Fr~nk­)oaded, it's this crew. Just rake to.
game tmmediately following there.'' 
the Chicago Sting-Minnesota From the forward line back lin, the fourth captain, is out a look at their roster. BiH Hanzlik --Varsity 
Tom Sudkamp
Kicks professional match at 2. to the goaltenders. Hunter has umil August with an injured --· The basketball player (Need more 
ream captain and token old be said?).
"It's very difficult for them himself a long list of qualified knee along. with sophomore to practice amongst them­characters. Kevin Lovejoy, Mark Luerkehans (also a knee). guy. Mr. Bookstore three years Dan Short--Who? 
selves,'' says Dr. Rich Hunter. Mike Mai. and Sami Kahale In their .place, Phil Sweetser ago and the most valuable Dan Short, that's who. 
player in the entire 1978 tourn­WoLAJ.Q it surprise you to findabout to embark on his fourth each· return to head the· Irish 
[continued on pa~e 14) 
ament. out that Dan Shorr is the season as head coach of the attack up from. Mai is Notre leading scorer on this club ofIrish. "We've had some con­Dame's all-time assist leader could-be professionals? If itLenrrati"n problems which al and works the wing. Kahale does, then we won't tell youways sec:m to plague our ream, has a strong shot and also likes that he also has the bestJ.!thuugh I rhink a lot of it's to pass. The big gun, however, shooting percentage on theunJers~tandable ·' is the senior co-captain from squad (31-of-47 -but thenHunrn ts a defense-oriented Seattle. Wash., Kevin Lovejoy. 
again, who's counting?)

t<~ctician. He fc:els the sticky, "Kevin's starting to give up Tom Sudkamp calls Sho•thall conrrol drills are a major the ball more," observes an "our secret weapon," but after sourer· of fru:-.tration in prac­admiring Hunter, "and that's watching the defending champ· ttLt:. "Our team plays supenor creating even more dangerous ions rake their act to thedt'fense and rhar makes ir -oituarions for him." That could bookstore asphalt, Shorr's sec·reallr diffiL~.lr ro move the ball mean even more goals for ret becomes a well-known fact"()mertmt"s. ~omeone who's already piled "Danny's a very good play­"\X'e'rl" probably one of the up 51 (67 points overall) in his er." points out Sudkamp.
bc·st marking ream-. around." prevtous rwo years. 
"He's always in position andremarb sentor co-captain Joe The retum to action of junior he plays a very smar~ game ofCtuni. "We play man-to-man, Ed O'Malley at forward follow­basketball.'' 

no zone Rich drills that into us ing a broken leg last Septem Bur the ultimate compliment r"Veryda~·. He likes his old ber should add an extra ingred­comes from teammate HanzlikPolish style --chop every­ient to the attack. Hunter who says Short might just bebodv down and win 1-0." acknowledges O'Malley's abil­the most valuable player on theOn. Monday afternoon the ity to shoot but adds, "Eddie's team. • ,team got irs first taste of got to work on controlling the Nicknamed "Woody", for a,.
enemy blood and inflicted an balL A lor of rimes he mtsses reason no one knows, the semorimpressive 4-0 scrimmage de­opportunities \)Pr~·. .1e isn't accounting major from Beechfeat on Sheridan College of under conrr· ' Grove, Ind. 
has )>layed Book­Toconto. Ciuni ar ::l • '"( .. ,,.,.,t ;ead a store every year since his''That game Monday was veteran bt. ·jJ. m1dfielders. 

arrival at Notre Dame. As areal good for us. Both our first Both play the kind of defense freshman, he playe~ withand second reams played well Hun~er demands. Senior Bill Leo's Fighting Legions -aand the guys got to see another Murphy led all halfbacks in team, Shorr remembers, that ream for a change,'' notes sconng a year ago and should didn't do too well.

Hunter. be an improved performer. in Another factor in the build­1980. Hunter claims, "Bill has [continued on page 14] tng success of Notre Dame's finally learned the rewards of 










