• • .Respect life Series -Page 3· 
notre dame and saint mary's FRIDAY, APRIL 18, 1980 
Carter threatens blockade ifeconomic sanctions fail 
by The Associated Press Asked about that timetable, Carter said he considered JulyPresident Carter turned the ''excessive.'' 
U.S. economic vise on Iran a Carter sent Congress a brief little tighter yesterday, and got special message outling the a boost from West Europeans. retaliatory measures he Portugal banned all trade with announced at the News Confer1-Iran, and the European Parlia­ence, declaring that events ment urged the nine Common there and in Soviet-occupied Market nations to consider Afghanistan "constitute a breaking di{>lomatic ties with grave threat to the national the revolutionary regime in security, foreign policy and Tehran. economy of the United States.''­
At a Washington news con­The president also formally ierence, Carter warned that if signed an executive order im­non-military steps do not lead plementing the newly imposed to the release of the 50 U.S. sanctions. 
... :;::<···. 
Embassy hostages in Tehran, An administration source,"the next step will be military 
action.'' asking not to be quoted by But Carter was not specific name, said Carter had planned about how he misht use force 
to announce a ban on food }_o_seph Kennedy, the nephew ofpreszdential candidate Edward Kennedy, made a surprise against Iran, saytng, "I have shipments to Iran but changed vtstt to Notre Dame yesterday. not discussed specific military his mind yesterday morrung 
steps with our allies that I after receivmg a bnefing from 
might take.'' However, he Secretary of State Cyrus R. 
hinted at the naval blockade Vance arg~in~ against such a 
option, noting that "the inter­move at thts ume.
Young Kennedy campaigns at ND 
ruption of commerce with Iran'' The latest U.S. government 
is a logical move. figures show medical exports to Iran were worth a mere
by Tom jackman ing the South Quad, always letes, and extol the virtues of A naval blockade could inter­News Editor imploring them, good-natured­his uncle's ideas. "He's rupt trade between Iran and $220,000 in Febru::~ry, and that 
there were no shipments offood
ly, to "help Ted out with .a (Carter) wishy-washy. I just other countries, including A portion of the fabled vote.'' don't believe he stands up for Western Europe, which is heav­-due in. good measure to a 
refusal by union longshoremen"Kennedy clan" undertook a He continued to the the vested interests of the ily reliant on oil imports. 
to load food aboard ships bound 
campaign tour through South LaFortune Student Center, United States. Whichever "We are still attempting to Bend yesterday on behalf of where he worked the nearly wheel squeaks the loudest is avoid that kind of action,'' he for Iran. presidential conten-der Sen. empty main lounge, the the one he'll oil," he comment­said. ''But we cannot preclude Edward M. Kennedy, with the Huddle, and finally the Student ed. that kind of action." He announced he was bann­son of the late Sen. Robert F. Government offices. From As his uncle has done repeat­Carter noted that the new ing financial transactions with Kennedy--Joseph Kennedy III-­there, Kennedy walked to the edly on the campaign trail, sanctions, coming ten days Iran by anyone in the United making a short stop on campus Administration Building where Kennedy accused Carter of after he broke diplomatic rela­States, prohibiting most Ameri­in the late afternoon for some he spoke with University Presi­knuckling under to the interests tions with Iran, "are still non­can travel to Iran, orderinggood old-fashioned ''pressing dent Fr. Theordore Hesburgh of big business, and said that belligerent in nature." payment of reparations to the flesh. " and a group of students in "Ted has always fought tooth But he warned that ''Other families of the 50 hostages from 
Kennedy, the 28-year-old Hesburgh'.s office. and nail against the oil compan­actions are available to the frozen Iranian assets, and ne{>l-ew of the candidate, Kennedy concluded his stay ies. Carter thinks that bY. United States and may become ordering U.S.-made arms on arnved in South Bend yester­by working the crowd watching giving money back to the 01l necessary if Iran fails to carry order by Iran to be made day morning to open up the Bookstore Basketball, and then companies, they'll drill more out its tnternational responsibil­available to U.S. armed forces district's Kennedy Headquar­by situating himself in front of wells--that's a crock of ities." instead. ters at 310 N. Michigan Ave., the South Dining Hall to catch baloney.'' Iranian leaders have said the Earlier yesterday, Iranian and also ''to start getting the 5 p.m. rush. Kennedy also attacked hostage crisis must be debated revolutionary leader Ayatollahpeople thinking about Kennedy Between his stops on Carter's -registration plan, by the country's new parlia­Ruhollah Khomeini dismissed and to get him in the forefront campus, Kennedy rook every which received a strong boost in m~nt. which has not been the American sanctions as an of the Democratic candidates,'' opportunity to blast President elected. and that it may be July "empty drum," and President
(continued on page 5]
according to Dan Jackson, Jtmmy Carter's current pol-betore the issue is considered. Abolhassan Bani-Sadr insisted Kennedy's third district coor­Iran was ''mostly self-sufficient dinator. and would not be endangered 
Kennedy was in Indiana by a broad trade embargo.
In 0-C area
campaigning for the Democrat­But Bani-Sadr nonetheless ic primary to be held May 6. threatened anew to cut off Jackson commented that 1raman oil to nations tha): join in 
Robber shoots woman
"Indiana loves the Kennedys," the U.S. sanctions. pointing out that John Kennedy It appeared that Portugal, for won here in 1960, and Joseph's by john M. Higgins the Notre Dame/St. Mary's off-campus com­one, had taken the punch out of father Robert picked up his first munity. On Tuesday night, Delmarie Britton, a the Iranian threat by itself primary victory here in the 1968 Another robbery/murder occurred early yes­South Bend reSident, was the victim of suspending Iranian oil imports. race. Jackson added enthusias­terday morning near the Castlewood apartment robbery/murder in her Notre Dame Avenue In announcing the new tically that "if he aoseph) is complex on Ironwood Road. apartment. measures, Carter said he might one-tenth the man his father Patricia Schalliol, 54, was beaten and shot at next order a ban on shipments
There, three men broke in through the front 
was, he'll be a great person." 1 a.m. yesterday morning in her home at 18384 of U.S. food and drugs to Iran.
door, tied up Britton's boyfriend, and shot
The young Kennedy, who Cleveland Road in Clay township. She was Traffic in those items is
Britton in the back, leaving her body in the 
runs a non-profit oil company pronounced dead at the scene at 1:45. already minimal, however.
living room.
when he isn't campaigning full According to Sgt. Richard Seniff of the St. Iranian purchases of U.S. food time (as he is now), came to JoseP.h County Sheriff's Department, a lone When asked if there was any connection had declined sharply since the Notre Dame after a tour assailant broke into the residence through the between the murders, both Seniff and S~t. anti-shah revolution succeeded through the City Council build­back door at approximately 1:00 a.m. The Eugene Kyle of the South Bend Pohce 14 months ago, and the Ameri­ing in South Bend and lunch at intruder, described by police only as "a black Department said that "it's too early to tell." can longshoremen's union had Guiseppe's with local dignitar­male," entered the house, beat Schalliol' s Students living in the area were suprised cut off whatever other food ies. However, his campus visit husband Edgar, 56, with a piece of fire wood upon receiving news of the murder. ''This is shipments there were. But was hastily organized at best, then tied him up and threw him in the a pretty good neighborhood,'' resident David U.S. officials indicated that a and the hour he spent here did basement. The robber then killed Mrs. O'Conner said. "You expect that kind of thin~ formal export ban would help not go entirely smoothly. Schalliol, beating her and shooting her once in near St. Louis Street, but I didn't expect tt establish an example for U.S. 
Kennedy, who had no set the head. around here," he commented. allies to follow. appointments, be8an his walk­Mr. Schalliol managed to use a telephone in "It's surprising, but it doesn't worry me very The surprise announcement ing tour of the Untversity at the the basement to summon police. Police say much,"]im Minutolo remarked. "This area is in Lisbon tndicated Carter had main circle, chatting and shak­they have no suspects. pretty heavily trafficked." "But it makes me found at least some solid sup­ing hands with students cross-This is the second murder in three days in wonder," O'Conner added. port in Western Europe. 


News in brief 
rnday, Aprill8, 1980 -page 2 
·Carterfinally admits 
Maintenance prepares campus 
U.S. has enteredrecession 

grounds as commencement nears 
WASHINGTON {AP) -President Caner said yeste~day the nation's economy "probably has entered a penod of recession" that will. cause "pain and ... disruptions" for many America~s: ~ut Cl;lrter said he ~elieves that is the price for restrammg mflattons, and pred1~ted the dow.nturn will be short and mild. It was the first ume the president has acknowledged a recession apparently is at hand, although predictions by his own economic forecasters recently have been bolstered by layoffs in the auto industry and a sharp decline in homebuilding. 


CamRUS---­
-----4 
Friday, April18 
11: 15am LECTURE ''research on treatment evaluation,'' 
alan e. kazdin, pa. st. u. HAGGAR AUD. ll:45am LUNCHTIME CONCERT rich prezioso and kevin quigley, LAFORTUNE MAIN LOUNGE. 
3:30pm LECTURE "marx and religion," prof. nicholas lash LIB. LOUNGE. 
4pm COOKOUT nd sailing club BOATHOUSE. 4:30pm LECTURE "a model of molecular self-organization & the origin of life," dr. hans kuhn 123 NIEUWLAND. 
5:15pm MASS & DINNER, BULLA SHED. 7, 9, 11:30pm FILM "foul play" ENGR. AUD. 7 & lOpm FILM "fiddler on the roof'' CARROLL HALL 
SMC, Sl. 7pm ART EXHIBIT, lSI GALLERY. Spm RECITAL vocalist michele letezia LITTLE THEATRE 
SMC. 
8pm PLAY "the day they kidnapped the po~" FLANNER PIT. Spm CONCERT noel paul stokey with band & bodyworks, 
STEPAN CENTER. _, 9pm MUSIC & DANCE seniors in the NAZZ. 
Saturday , April 19 
llam SEMINAR "the family & social justice" prof. james 
smurl, indiana-purdue university 600 LIB. llam FILM "whatever happened to the human race?" LIB. AUD. 
2, 7, lOpm FILM "fiddler on the roof" CARROLL HALL SMC, $1. 6pm FILM india association documentary LIB. AUD. 7pm ART EXHIBIT, ISIS GALLERY. 
7, 9:15, 11:30pm FILM "foul play" ENGR. AUD. 7:30pm INTERNATIONAL FESTIVAL, WASHINGTON HALL. 
8pm PLAY "the day they kidnapped the pope" FLANNER PIT, $1. 8pm OPERA "Ia boheme" O'LAUGHLIN AUD. SMC. 9pm BEAUX ARTS BALL, ARCHITECTURE BLDG. 
9:30pm NAZZ rich prezioso and kevin quigley. H>: 30pm MUSIC PERFORMANCE, rms, WASHINGTON HALL. 
Sunday, April 20 
loam SAILING LESSONS nd sailing club BOATHOUSE. 2pm OPERA "Ia boheme" O'LAUGHLIN AUD. SMC. 2pm PLAY "the day they kidnapped the pope" FLANNER 
PIT, $1. 7pm MEETING an tostal meeting and mass following LAFORTUNE. 
by Louis Breaux 
It is no miracle that the 
campus awakens in its full-color 
regalia with the advent of 
sprin~. Much of the beauty to 
be Witnessed in the coming 
weeks is the result of work 
bdng done by the maintenance 
crew in preparation for coul­
mencement weekepd. . 
For most students spring 
means baseball, frisbee, 
jogging, music reverberating 
across the quads, and lying 
under the sun on a patch of 
grass; but spring for the main­
tenance crew means cleanup 
and planting. 
The maintenance department 
sets two major target dates 
annually for having the campus 
in peak condition; those dates 
being graduation and the open­
ing of school in the fall. Edwin 
Lyon, director of maintenance, 
said, "We do what any other 
grounds crew would do, but 
hopefully we do it better.'' 
The chores of the 21 workers 
and the supervisor include 
cleanup, fertilizing, trimming, 
weeding, planting, and spray­
ing. Emphasis is also placed on 
increasing the parking space 
around the Holy Cross Annex 
and replacing many trees on 
campus. 
Lyon .commented, '' Al­though we have one of the best Dutch elm disease prevention programs in the country, we 
r-The Obsenr.er_ 
Night Editor: Margaret "Toots" Kruse Asst. Night Editor: Mike "Too Expensive" Monk, Mary "I Thought Of It, Mike" Kasper Copy Editor: Mary Fran Callahan Layout Staff Lois Kennedy, Neil ''Good Times on Satur­day Night'' O'Brien News Editor: Tom] ackman Editon'al Layout: Mike Onufrak, David Wood 
Features  Layout:  Molly  
Woulfe  
Sports Layout:  Chris  
Needles  

Typists: Carol Cornwall, Kathy Murray, Mark Perry, Carol Shuback, Bill Swift, 
I Mike Monk 1 EMT: Kim {Hi Mike & ' Jay!) 1 Proofreader: Paul ''Drunk 
n' Stoned" Hurley, Dan Ryan ND Day Editor: Keith ''Half Day'' Melaragno Ad Design: David Wood and Flo O'Connell Photographer: Tim "jerk" McKeough Guest Appearances: ] ohn "Who Wants Me To Hit A Homerun?" McGrath, Sal, Brian ''A Real Bonafide Irishman" Gascoin 
Tbt Ob11rvtr (USPS 598 920) Is published Monday through Friday except during exam and va1;4t1on periods. Tilt Obllrvtr Is published by the students of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $20 per year ($10 per semester) by writing Tht Obllrvtr, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class 
still seem to be losing the fight."
The number of trees on campus has dwindled from 1300 before the banning of DDT to 
600. Lyon said, "DDT had the best results for us many years, but now we are forced to use substitute pesticides which do not have the same properties, such as longevity of lethality.'' 
One may notice an increase in the number of trees on campus next fall since main­tenance plans on replaci~g many of the lost trees w1th saplings over the summer. 
One of the spring projects for maintenance will be to fertilize the campus. Lyon commente~, "Last year we used a certam fertilizing mixture for the first time and we were very pleased with the result. We plan to continue using it this year." 

After fertilizing the lawns, the crew will begin planting flowers, trimming hedges, and later moving the campus as the grass grows. Also the sod dug up by snowplows will be repla­ced and chuckholes in the roads and parkin~ lots will be tempo­rarily repa1red. 
Students should not have to 

fret about dod~ing S,Prinklers 
much this spnng smce the 
major watering will be done 
after school is out. "Right now 
we are two weeks behind 
because of the rain,'We should 
not have to begin sprinkling 
before the end of school since 
the April showers will take care ·of it," Lyon said. 
SUNDAY MASSES AT SACRED HEART CHURCH 
Rev. Robert Griffin, C.S.C. 9:00a.m. Sunday 5:15p.m. Saturday 
Rev. John Van Wolvlear, C.S.C. 
Rev. Paul Marceau, C.S.C. Rev. William Toohey, C.S.C.
10:30 a.m. Sunday 
12:15 p.m. Sunday 7:15p.m. Vespers 

Rev. Paul Marceau, C.S.C. 
campus
miniStry 


SUMMF.R STORAGE SPACE Special tbscoat for ND IBid SMC students, 

259-0335 
SeU Lock Storage ot McliDiey 816 East McliDiey 
Mishawaka 


postage paid, Notre Dame, Indiana 
46556. 
Tht Obllrvtr Is a member of the
8pm FACULTY RECITAL prof. sue seid-martin SACRED 
Associated Press. All reproduction
HEART CHURCH. 
rights are reserved. 
The Observer 

Dr. Eugene Diamond lectured last night on ''Medical Myths About the Right to Live'' in the Library Auditorium. ·[Photo by Tim McKeogh] 
Founder of Birth Right argues against abortion 
by Betsie Boland StaffReporter 
"Doctors knowingly kill babies and are hired to do it for a price," Dr. Eugene F. Diamond, founder of Birth Right of Chicago, said last mght. 
Diamond spoke to a crowd ot 40 at the Library Auditorium for the Resrect Life Series on "Medica Myths About the Right to Live.'' 
''With the sanction of medical institutions like the American Medical Association who purportedly work for the benefit of society, 1. 5 million :abortions are performed annually," he claimed. 
''The Hippocratic oath, which identifies the medical profession as the group which would not perform any lethal act persisted until 1970. Then the AMA did a fascinating thing, tying the medical code of ethics irrevokably to the law: they pronounced it ethical to perform an abortion in a state in which it was legal. The AMA made the same fatal error that the German Medical Associ­ation did 40 years ago,'' he asserted. 
Diamond, a pediatrician from Chicago, has severed his connection with all medical societies he was a member of and who have since joined the "death lobby." Diamond considers it to be a suicidal move on their part to support campaigns to kill their pauents. 
''I speak for the fetus ­deformed or healthy, wanted or not -because every life has infinite value and potential," he said. 
According to Diamond, the 
-justification for ''the other holocaust'' of human life is primarily media-manufactured 
WHC sponsors 

dinn'er 
; The World Hunger Coalition is sponsoring a Pre-Earth Day dinner Sunday at 5 p.m. in the Lewis Hall basement. The meal· will be a vegetarian meal based on the program's "voluntary simplicity'' concept. 
misconceptions. ''Not only does the press sanitize ideas of killins and abortion, but the abortion lobby also tries to dehumanize the fetus, which is undeniably human, by calling it a blob, a fertilized ovum. The fetus killed in a D & C is dismembered without anesthetic, and it feels pain," he commented. 
Diamond identified three medical myths which resulted in the legalization of abortion. Initially, the claim was that thousands of women were dying from criminal abortion, the so-called public health problem. Actually, according to Diamond, the number has leveled off since the introduc­tion of antibiotics and was only 130 in 1970. 
The population explosion panic following the baby boom resulted from injurious and unrealistic census bureau projections. "Human beings do not reproduce as insects," he said. "In fact, we are a declining society, and the only population problem may occur when the negative growth factor we are P.resently maintammg, 1.89 chtldren per family, becomes permanent." 
Uttlizing statistics from various studies, Diamond showed the trend ofpreg­nancles as still increasing, 
[continued on page 5] 
·Friday, Apri118, 1980 -page 3 

Sean Donlon disrusses position of Irish governtnent in division 
by Michael Mader StaffReporter 
Spicing his serious, straight­
forward talk with Irish humor 
Sean Donlon, the Irish Amb~u: 
sador to the United States, 
discussed the position of the 
Irish .gc;J\-:ernment on the politi­
cal dtvtston between the Irish 
Republic and North Ireland last 
night in the Galvin Life Science 
Auditorium. 
Throughout his talk, Donlon 
emphasized the rejection of 
violence by theJeoples of both 
the Republic an North Ireland. 
Donlon also stressed the need 
for more British interest in the 
present differences existing be­
tween the two Irelands. 
Approximately 55 people at­
tended the lecture and about 
half were students. Almost all 
of those present were Irish­
Americans who frequently 
burst into laughter and were 
receptive to Donlon. 
Explaining that ''all Irish 
governments in recent years 
have set for themselves the 
same basic policy'' concerning 
a reunion with Northern 
Ireland, Donlon listed the goals 
of the current government. 
While recongnizing that Ireland 
has .~ad two distmct political 
traditions, Donlon explained 
~hat ~he ~overnment. also real­
Izes tts Island's restdents co­
exist in areas of common inter­
est and heritage. 
Several institutions organiz­
ed on an all Irish basis that 
Donlon mentioned include the 
churches, trade-unions, bank­
ing facilities and sporting 
events. The government re­
jects the effort of an attempt of 
one historical Irish tradition to 
dominate the other, accordng to 
Donlon. "We need to eliminate 
sources of division and rancor,'' ·he commented. 
"Most importantly, both 
Irish lands reject violence,'' 
Donlon said. To empahsize his 
statement, Donlon used a poll 
taken of Irish nationalists conc­
erning the tolerance of certain 
groups within Ireland. Out of 
70 groups questioned, the IRA, 
the group responsible for a 
majority of the violence in 
Northern Ireland, ranked 68 
just ahead of Communists and 
drug pushers. 
''No substantial grouping in 
Ireland is willing to tolerate 
violence," Donlon said. 
Before any appreciable agreements between. the two sections of Ireland is made, however, the British govern­ment must give their support, 
Living off-campus next year? Have we got a 
meeting for you! 
Representativesfrom the South 
BendPolice, N.D. Security, and 
the 0-C Councilwillbe there 
among others. 
Wednesdaye April23 • 7:00pm in LaFortune Little Theatre 
according to Donlon. Because While mentioning slogans seen the long history of linkage on the walls in Belfast such as 
between Northern Ireland and 
'the Irish version of "To hell England, their disinterest is with the Pope," Donlon said he 
detrimental to negotiations. 
saw one in 1978 in the interim 
''England must declare a read­between Popes that said, "To 
iness to encourage a coming hell with the next Pope.''together of the people of 
Later, while talking about the Ireland. So far Britain had not poll that had the IRA ranked 68 shown this readiness,'' Donlon out of 70, Donlon noted that asserted. 
Protestants. were ranked 19th,Donlon often inserted ex­one below unmarried mothers .. 
amples of Irish humor through­out the course of his talk. [continued on page 6] 
SPRING FEVER GIUSSEPPE'S PARTY FRI APRIL IS 
admission $2.00 
nd/smc id's required 9 m-lam 


JOIN THE PARADE!!! MARCH ON OVER TO KING'S CELLAR FOR AN lOSTAll!! 
ORDER KEGS NOW !! LARGE SELECTION of SPIRITS BEER &WINE!!I 
j j 

MILLER LITE 
SPACK 
39
1 
70ZCANS 

STROH'S
699 
24/12 OZ CANS 


BUSCH.
699 
24/12 OZ CANS 

RED, WHITE SBLUE 
4
99 24/12 
OZCI\NS 

OLD MILWAUKEE
539 
24/12 OZ CANS 
OLD Vl BBL MILWAUKEE KEGS 26oo 
ptus deposit 


The Observer Friday, April18, 1980 -page 4 


• 
Sean Donlon, the Irish Ambassador to the United States, spoke on the political and economic situations in Ireland last night. [Photo by Tim McKeogh[ 






JUNIORS 
tix for CUBS vs. METS game on SUN. APRIL 20 
game time I: 20 cost$5.00 available in STUDENT ACTIVITIES OFFICE LAFORTUNE first come-first serve no limit 
erson 
~~o.· noa·~: 
61111616161 ~ 1111111111 16111611110 061611111!: 
~~.6~~ When it rains ... Pappagallo blooms!~~
! THESHOPFORPAPPAGAUO j 
~ ~ 
~ is now open at the New University Center, ~ ~ ~ J 6502 Grape Rd., behind Jeremiah Sweeneys. ~ 
~ ~ €WE'RE LOOKING FORWARD TO 11!1EETING YOU~ 
~  ~  
~ STORE HOURSf Sun. 12-~  C1  ~ @'  
~  Mon. & Fri.  10-8:30  ~  
~  Tues., Wed., Thurs. & Sat.  10-5.  ~  
i  Phone:  277-6400  -------­ ~  

e~~?Jie~~~~~~~'itS0~~&dte~~~t\l~0~ 
The Day They Kidnapped 
the ' Pope 

Auto cotnpanies expect decline in total layoffs next week 
Detroit (AP)-Total layoffs 
among U.S. auto production 
workers will decline next week, 
according to company reports 
yesterday. The drop comes 
before heavy dismissals an­
nouced earlier in the week by 
the ~wo biggest companies 
begin to takt: effect. 
Layoffs among the five major 
U.S. ccmpanies will fall from more than 205,000 -the second consecutive decline ­the companies said. 
The number of workers on open-ended layoff will rise from 163,250 to 169,550. Recalls in plants on week-long or two-week long shutdowns will bring the number on temporary furlough down from 41,900 to :''.,850. 
On Tuesday, Ford Motor Co. announced it would let go about 15,000 workers, includ­ing 6,100 from the white collar ranks, and close three plants. General Motors Corp. followed with an announcement that it was dropping 12,000 produc­tion workers. 
Ford's actions extend into August and GM's extend into next month. 
GM disclosed yesterday that it had laid off 2, 100 white-col­lar workers for an indefinite period recently, almost all of them idled in connection with assembly plant cutbacks. GM has idled three plants until the new model year and has drop-
Students sponsor festival 
Notre Dame's International Student Festival, an evening of cultural entertainment from around the world, will take place tomorrow at 7:30p.m. in Washington Hall. The Festival will include song and dance acts representing Lithuania, China, India, Cuba, Lebanon, Germany, the Phillippines, Ireland, and the United States, and will be followed by a reception in the the LaFortune Rathskeller. 
Admission to the International Student" Organization sponsored event is free, and all are cordially invited to attend. 
Cuban refugees claim harassment before exit 
San Jose, Costa Rica (AP)­Cuban refugees arriving from the Peruvian embassy m Ha­vana claimed yesterday sup­porters of President Fidel Cas­tro insulted them and took their personal belonginings be­fore aiiO".Ving them to leave. 
Two planes brought 254 re­fugees during th~ second day of an airlift -from communist Cuba, lifting th~ total flown here to 490. Peruvian officials said 9,700 Cubans still were waiting to leave their homeland 
The refugees, including wo­men and children, looked wan and tired as they stepped off two "freedom flights," man­ned by the Costa Rican airline; and were taken to a former presidential resiclence in San Jose fo.r hot food, rest and processmg. 
Some of the refugees were so exhausted they collapsed on the floors in small groups and went to sleep without waiting for mattresses. 
Several said they left Cuba because they could not stand living under the communist regime and because of the high cost of living. 
"We are workers and teach­
ers  and  painters.  We  just  
wanted  to  leave  Cuba  and  
escape the  repression,!'  said  
another.  

Some 150 Castro supporters were at Jose Marti airport in Havana at 3 a.m. When the refugees arrived to board the planes for San Jose, the Cu­bans said. 
"They took away all our suitcases,'' said Gilberto Puig, 30. 
''They even took away our wristwatches." He added: ''This is not just 10,000 people in the Peruvian embassy, but also the Cuban people angry at Castro." 
Another man held up three luggage tags from Cuban Air­lines. "See, I even have the proof that they have it;" he said. 
Describing the mob scene at Havana airport, a refugee who asked not to be identified said the communists ''pushed and shoved and one man walked up to me and said, 'The only reason I won't hit you now is because your child is here .''' 
Carlos Dominguez, 37, an accountant, said more than 40,000 people would have gone into the Peruvian embassy in Havana if police had not cordoned off the area. ''People have lost their fear of Castro,'' he said. 
Final destination of the Cu­ban refugees, who began crowding into the Peruvian embassy's 20-acre compound the weekend of April 4, still was not certain. Foreign countries have offered asylum to more than half of them. Costa Rica, which agreed to be the stag!ng area, will allow 300 to remam. 
Two U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service experts were expected soon to start processing papers for the 3,500 Cubans who will be going to the United States. An Ameri­can Embassy source, who dec­lined to be identified, said it 
probably  will  be  two  weeks  
before the fir st  group  leaves  
San Jose.  



library staff urges return of surveys 
L1brary survers have been distributed to al ND residents and grad students this past week. 0-C students are urged to return the surveys directly to the library. Residents should return the completed surveys to their hall president. 

ped shifts from 21 plants since July. 
Temporary jroduction lay­offs announce by the No. 1 producer totaled 10,000 in three plants next week com­pared with 16,950 this week. GM said its indefinite layoffs had risen from 80,000 to 82,000. 
Ford said its short-term lay­offs would fall from 19,150 from eight J;>lants to 7,650 in three, but Its indefinite fur-
toughs had risen from 41,000 to 
43,200. 
Crysler Corp. will idle 1 700 briefly, down from 5,800. Crysler's open-ended layoffs rose from 39,900 to 42,000. 
American Motors Corp. had no change in its 2,350 mdefi­nite layoffs but said it would shut a plant for a week, idling 3,500. 
Volkswagen of America has no layoffs. 

-
The Observer Friday, April18, 1980 -page 5 
... Abortion 
[continued from page 3) 
while live pirths remain constant and abortions increase. "Post-conception birth control is becoming the solution for the increasing numbers of young women getting pregnant," he claimed. 
The claim of birth defects as a reason for abortion is based upon a mingling of the concept of unwanted birth and unwanted pregnancy. Using slides of fetuses at various stages of development, and then one ofan aborted fetus in a bucket, Diamond emphasized, ''A baby's life should not be available to anybody, even ifits biological mother rejects it. God alone has access to it." 
''Unless everybody is protected by the law, no one is safe. I speak for the fetus and that child must be given the right to live, or else ~ive it the right to take the hfe of the unwanted mother when it grows up. Because as surely as night follows day, euthanasia 
follows  abortion,  and  it's  
already  happening,''·  he  
concluded.  

BLUE MANTLE 
now accepting applications for 
Editor,Asst. Editor,CopyEditor, CopyWriter, Photography Editor, ·.siness Manager
NOEL PAUL STOOKEY' center, wzll appear in concert with his band, Bodyworks, tonight at 8:?? P.M. at Stepan Center. Stooke;y, composer of"The Wedding Song,'' will perform 
Student Activities Office-SMC
that along with ''Building Block,'' ''Pu!J the Magic Dragon,'' ''Day is Done,'' ''Sebastian'' and excerpts from his new album, Band and Bodyworks. Tickets are available at the 
Deadline-A ril21 
Student Union Ticket Office on the 2ndfloor ofLaFortune and at the door. 


... Kennedy 
[continued from page 1) 
Congress yesterday. "Do you 
know how long it takes to get 
troops com bat-ready?" he 
asked. "Six to eight months. 
Registration gets you 13 days," 
he charged. He called for 
improving incentives to join the 
volunteer army, saying that a 
"$300 a month salary doesn't 
get you the best men avail­
able." 
Reaction to Kennedy's visit was by no means overwhelming or excited, but rather "tepid" as Sean Heffernan, president of the Young Democrats, termed it. Students who happened across Kennedy's path during the afternoon did not seem anxious to meet him, or im­pressed that they had just spoken with a member of the once widely respected Kennedy family. 
Heffernan attributed the in­different response to lack of advance pubhcity and organiza­tion, and he expressed disap­pointment that he was not mformed of the visit earlier by the Kennedy organization. Heffernan's hurried prepara­tions in the hours before Kennedy's arrival were appar­ently the only advance work done on campus, even though a ''Students for Kennedy'' or­ganization has been in exist­ence for several months. 
Paul Lewis, head of the ''Students for Kennedy'' organization here, said that Kennedy preferred simply to walk around campus, and that ''it was either an hour here without organization or nothing at all. We took the hour without organization.'' Lewis noted that additional members of the Kenn~dy family are scheduled to visit the campus in the remaining three weeks before the primary. 
Kennedy, a handsome, curly­haired blond with a smile almost photographically remin­iscent of his father's, seemed comfortable as he went from person to person lobbying for votes, but most students were, surprisin~ly, not especially in­terested 10 chatting with him. 
WHEN IN SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA VISIT u:NIVERSAL STUDIOS TOUR 
AN MCA COM~NY 

• 

Opens April 25th at a theatre near you. 

The Observer Friday, April18, 1980 -page 6 



Ralph Nader leads attack 
onalleged abuses ofbigbusiness 

By the Associated Press Yesterday was either ''Big 
Bu5iness  DaY.''  or  ''Growth  
Day''­ depending  on  -yOur  
point of view.  

Labor leaders, senior citizens groups and <;onsumer activists led by Ralph Nader attacked alleged abuses in the market­place with marches, rallies and mock trials marking what they called "Big Business Day." 
Corporate supporters re­sponded with "Growth Day" activities in defense of the economic system, 'which, they said, ''has freely and gen­eroiJs!y provided so much for so many.'' 
Individual events spread across the country. The focus of the "Big Business Day" campaign was a bill introduced in Congress earlier this month to limit the powers of the nation's 600 largest corpora­tions. 
Local groups, however, used the day to campaign for their own causes. The New Hamp­shire People's Alliance, for example, said the rally it sponsored at the capitol in Concord was designed to call attention to problems of unem­-ployment, electricity rates and other consumer problems. 
Members of the Massachu­setts Building Trades Council who marched through down­town Boston protested the in­crease in non-union col'lstruc­tion firms in the state. 
And the Michigan Citizens' Lobby put the Hooker Chemi­cal Co. and its parent firm, Occidental Petroleum Corp., on trial for allegedly polluting the environment. The guilty ver­dict was announced before the trial. An Occidental spokes­man said the charges were "unfounded_ and undeserv­ing." 
''Big Business Day'' sup­-porters in San Diego included the Gray Panthers, a senior citizens' group, Friends of the Earth, and an organization called "Tax Big Oil." They distributed 1 ,000 ballots on the campus of San Diego State 
CUSTOMER INFORMATION FROM GENERAL MOTORS 
BOW GM 11PROJECT CENTERS'' CREATE CARS 

FROM CONCEPT TO CUSTOMER IN THREE YEARS AND THREE BILLION DOLLARS 
Throughout the history of the automobile industry, prod­uct change was almost always evolutionary. But in 19n. GM determined that the times re­quired revolutionary changes. It started its first Project Center­which by itself heralded a revo­lution in the use of science and technology to meet the chang­ing demands of the market­place. A few months later, the Arab countries launched the oil embargo. Fortunately, machin­ery was already in motion in GM to create and develop new cars and components in a new way and faster than ever before. 
GM's first Project Center brought out totally new full­size cars: smaller, yet roomier. and far more efficient than their predecessors. The advertise­ments said they were "designed and engineerea for a changing world"-and they were. Another Project Center. begun in 1975. developed the immensely popu­lar GM X-cars. 
Led by the five car divi­sions. Project Centers gather people. ideas. and knowledge from all 30 divisions and staffs of (;eneral Motors. In the first stage. which we call "concept­ing." experimental engineers. environmental scientists. for­ward planners. and marketing experts pool their thinking. Their objective: what the mar­ketplace will require. This is the most important stage.-Here we must determine not only what 
kind of car. but how many we 
might be able to build and sell 
vears later. Economics. cus­
tomer tastes, availability of 
various kinds of fuels must be 
compared with state-of-the-art 
technology-and what steps 
must be taken to advance that 
technology quickly yet surely. 
In the "concepting" stage, 
a new car is conceived. Jfthe car 
is to be sold to customers three 
years later. construction of new 
plants must begin and basic 
tooling must be ordered. 
The second phase of the 
Project Center takes 24 to :~0 months. It encompasses devel­opment. design, structural analysis. handling analysis. emissions, noise and vibration. safety. reliability, serviceability ,and repairability, manufactur­ing, _assembly, marketing, fi­
nancmg. 
Advanced product engi­neers and research scientists work with the one hundred fifty to two hundred people at the Project Center and thousands more in the staffs and divisions to transfer new science and technology to the new car. Com­ponents are hand-built and "cobbled" into existing models for road testing. 
Prototype cars are hand­built at a cost of more than $250,000 each. These enable the Project Center team to de­termine how newly developed. pretested components operate as a unit. Then. pilot models will be built from production tooling and tested some more. New technology. such as str.uctural analysis by computer. saves time. Lead time has been re­duced by 25% from ten years ago, when cars were far less complex. 
After almost four million miles. nearly three billion dol­lars. and nearly three years of work. the new cars-quite un­like anything before them­start coming off the production line at a rate of better than one a minute. 
There are now eight Project Centers in General Motors. Four are developing new cars using hydrocarbon fuels. one is creating an electric car. and others are working on computerized engines and emission controls. a new kind of automatic transmission, and the inflatable restraint system. 
New and revolutionary cars can't be mass produced for the road overnight. But by put· ting all the parts of General Motors to work together. we found a way to speed up the process. We have integrated the creativity of thousands of human minds to make invention into reality when it's needed. 
This advertisement is part ofour continuing effort to give custom­ers useful information about their cars and trucks and the company that builds them. 
General Motors 
People building transportation to ser_ve people 
~.-_.., .,.• 4 " • -f • • • • • , r , • • · r r 1 ~ r A • .-.. • • • • • • • • 
' >·~ ... 
---···· 
University, asking recipients to vote for candidates for the ''San Diego Corporate Hall of Shame.'' 
Nader, who says the public is "increasin~ly dismayed by the gross misconduct of our largest corporations," schedul­ed a speech in his home state ofConneticut where the Citizen Labor Energy Coalition and the 1st Congressional District Con­gress Watch organized a day long program. 
Included was a mock grand jury with citizens tesufying about what they said were the harmful effects of corporations. 
The "Growth Day" events were sponsored by the Heri­tage Foundation, a conserva­tive think tank, Washington Gov. Dixy Lee Ra)l, a Demo­crat, told a breakfast sponsored by the foundation that Ameri­cans are "in a maze of govern­ment regulation from which we need to rescue ourselves." 
At the same meeting, Alex­ander B. Trowbridge, presi­dent of the National Associa­tion of Manufacturers, ac-cused Nader and his supporters of ''verbal overkill.'' What the nation should be ·focusing on, said Trowbridge, is "restoring American productive capa­city." 
• • • Donlon 
[continued from page 3] 
In the same poll, Donlon found that Presbyterians were ranked 28th, just below the labor movement. 
When mentioning Ireland's desire to be less energy depen­dent on other countries, Donlon said that ali the Irish pray to St. Patrick, and the other Irish saints for energy, hoping to find enough oil to become a member of OPEC by the end of the 1980's. 
While once economically inferior to North Ireland, the Republic has grown so well in the last 20 years that it has now 
overtaken the North, Donlon explained ''The biggest change in the last 25 years in Ireland has been the change from agriculture to industry, making it "the fastest growing econ­omy in Europe,'' Donlon de­clared. He further explained that because of the economic balance, there can no longer be prejudice on the basis of econ­omic status, as there was when the Irish Republic was first created. 
Historically, North Ireland has been linked with England for many reasons. A division between the northeast of Ireland and the rest of it has occured for over 300 years, mostly due to language and culture, according to Donlon. North Ireland is also traditional­ly composed of a majority of Protestants, just as Britain is. 
The industrial revolution affecting just the northeast of Ireland and a subsequent famine Jn the scuth caused an economic widening in addition to the religious differences. Finally m 1922, Britain divided the two factions, and the Northern Irish stayed close to the British. "Since 1922, we have seen violence in Northern Ireland," Donlon reflected. 
••-'1 l•·t<IIIP&I',.rl.r"'..-. 

The Observer Friday, AprillS, 1980 -page 7 

ND/SMC prepares for Earth Day 
by Barbara Bridges StaffReporter 
Environmental appreciation and awareness will be the guiding spirit behind this year's ND/SMC celebration of Earth Day on Tuesday. 
"Earth Day 1980" promises to be a spectacular affair at the ND campus as Students United for Responsible Energy have arranged for several speakers to discuss a variety of topics concerning man and his envi­ronment. The tenth annual Earth Day celebration will begin Sunday with a vegetarian dinner sponsored by SURE and the World Hunger Coalition. 
On Tuesday, several speakers will lecture through­out the day, and musical enter­tainment will be presented Juring the afternoon. 
SURE is an ND/SMC student organization started by South Bend resident)oe Lehner. The group is concerned with educat­mg people on issues of alterna­tive energy. They have a general opposition to nuclear power, and they stress the need for citizen involvement in establishing energy policies. 
SURE is an off-shoot of Lehners's involvement in the South Bend orsanization, the "Bailly Downwmd Alliance." The Alliance has halted the development of the Bailly Nuclear Power plant which was being built in Chesterton, Indiana. 
Lehner is particularly con­cerned with enlightening the college community as to the environmental and energy issues facing the world today. He has arranged for a broad selection of topics to be addressed during the day in the hope that the community will look back on the last ten years to see what has been accom­plished since the first national Earth Day. 
The first national Earth Day 
was started to inform people of 
pollution problems and the 
scarcity of resources. It was 
also a celebration of nature. 
Currently, the energy issue is 
one of paramount concern and 
thus, is receiving a great deal of 
attention during the course of 
"Earth Day 1980." 
Speakers from ND, ISUB, 
and various community organi-
Christian 

·actiVISt to lecture 
RustY. Wright, Christian acti­vist, wtll be on campus today to present a lecture on life-after­life experiences at 7 p.m. in the Library Auditorium. 
Wright is a national traveling representative of Campus Cru­sade for Christ. In the past few years, he has spoken to over 29,000 students and faculties on 70 campuses in 30 states, including such universities as Cornell, Georgia Tech, Texa~;, Indiana and Arizona State. 
Wright has also done exten-' sive resr-arch on -near-death experiences for his book, The Ot!Jer Side of Life. In his lecture on this topic, ~hich incorporates stories of patic,..ts ~e has interviewed, Wr~8ht attempts to unlock thr Meanmfl of the "out-of-body"' exper: enc.es. 
zations will be talking about issues such as solar energy, nuclear power, toxic substa~ces, hazardous wastes, ethics and utilities. A special guest speaker, Sr. Rosalie Bertell of the Ministry of Concern for Public Health in Buffalo, New: York will be discussing her extensive research on the health effects of low-level radia­tion. 
Other topics to be discussed will be holistic effects of low­level technology, economics and the environment, environ­mental biology, environmental legislation, and Catholicism and the environment. 
Lehner hopes that Earth Day will '' educate people on a wide range of subjects, provide a learning atmosphere, an oppor­tunity for reflection and con­templation, and some fun.'~ He also hopes to enlighten people as to environmental tssues, the need for inter­national brotherhood and wants to get people to "look forward to a second decade of environ­mental ,consciousness.'' 
Approximately 25 student members of SURE will host Earth Day. Various academic departments and Campus Ministry have assisted SURE in sponsoring the day's activities. South Bend community musi­cians and student performance will entertain on the South Quad. 
Rhodesia becomes free after years ofcivil war 
SALISBURY, Zimbabwe (AP) -Rhodesia, wracked by years of civil war in a failed struggle for white supremacy, officially be­came the black-ruled nation of Zimbabwe at midnight yester­day, 5 p.m. EST. 
The transition brought inde­pendence to Britain's last African colony. 
The red, white and blue British Union Jack was lowered and replaced by the six-color standard of Africa's newest black-ruled nation. 
Britain's Prince Charles was on hand to turn over the British Parliament's declaration grant­ing independence to the south­ern Afncan state. He was joined by four presidents, seven prime ministers, and envoys from some 100 countries as well as 40,000 mainly black guests in the Rufaro soccer field where the ceremony was held. 
Wild cheers erupted from the stadium as Zimbabwe was born out of the ashes of a seven-year war between black nationalists and the country's white min­ority that cost some 20,000 lives and shattered an otherwise healthy economy. 



SUMMER STORAGE 
Master Mini-Warehouses 
683-1959 or 683-6889 
-at the state line on US 31 -about 2.5 miles north of campus 

Is Preferential Tre~tment Fair? Student Viewpoints 


A Panel Discussion: 
Shawn Collins Richard Meyers Dale Robinson 
Moderator: Jamessterba Department of Philoeophy 
Jlonday, Apr!·~~21 7:00 

Fr. Gnffin attempts to keep on his way as Darby Illooks for a favon"te spot. [Photo by Tim McKeogh] 

applications for 

HOMECOMING 
CHAIRMAN "1980" 
. . 
are available in HE STUDENT UNION OFFICE 
DUE DATE is Friday Aprilj2?. 



Off Broadway 
Tuesday April29 7:30pm 
Notre Dame AC.C. 
ICkets~ sB.W~nd$7.50 onsalenow at the ACC ~x Office aiid all usual _ _A~:_--:C TICket Outlets _A 

-----------'------~ 
; 
~ 





Editorials 
·Cooperation: 
Solution to the 

Critne Problem 
_ Th~ crime problem in t~outh Bend ha~ culminated this past 
week m two murders-one on the periphery of the ND/SMC 
off-campus community, and the other in that area's very 
center. Crime has been on the rise in South Bend with six 
separate murders occurrin~ in the last three weeks. If the 
present trend continues, it ts on1 a matter of time before the 
next victim is a Notre Dame or .... aint Mary's student. Some 
kind ofaction must be taken to prevent this tragic eventuality 
an~, at the same time, protect the rights of the other 
restdents of the Northeast neighborhood. Crime in these 
areas, is not a problem which only affects the stude~t. It is a 
problem which affects both students and South Bend 
residents. The solution, therefore, must wmefrom both of 
these two groups. 
To begin to solve the problem, three steps must be taken 
by_the South Bend police, the ND/SMC Administrations, and 
off-campus students: · Fif:;t, a dialogue must be opened berwr;en the three groups 
mc:nuoned above. The police must dttect more of their 
attention to the Northeast ne.:ghburhood area, not onlv for 
the sake of the students, but also cor the benefit of the other 
neighborhood residents. 
Second, the Administrations must take steps to convince 
the South Bend authorides of the seriou.mess of the threat 
posed daily to students and other residents of the 
neighborhood. Both Administrations have the influence 
off-campus students lack, but desperately need, to make the 
South Bend police aware of the crime problem off-caml?us. 
_Third, students who live off-campus must report allcnmes to the police and ND/SMC security. In the past, students have taken an apathetic stand by not reportmg stolen car stereos, electric appliances and cash. If the police are going · to take the problem of off-campus crime seriously, they must know the ~xtent of the problem. Only through the documentatton of every crimmal act can the Administrations and the off-campus commissioner present an accurate case to the South Bend authorities. 
To repeat, the crime .P~oblem off-campus is not solely an !'JDISMC problem, nor ts tt so~c:ly a South Bend problem-it . IS a problem for both communltles. To successfUlly eradicate the cur~e.nt situation, it will be necessary for . both commun.mes to work together. To succeed, they must begin soon. Ltke now. · · 
Ihlnesbury by Garry Trudeau 


l 

Friday, April18, 1980 -page 8' 

P.O. Box Q 
WSND ignored 
Dear Editor: 

I am writing in response to Tim Sullivan's "A Classical Music Primer'' on the features pa~e of the 10 April 1980 ednion of the Observer. I am certainly in agreement with Mr. Sullivan's sentiments that classical music is an art form that can be appreciated by those other than Music Majors and that, indeed, classical mu­sic does have an appeal for anyone whose ears are attune to beauty. I will also agree with his recommendations for those unfamiliar with the r las­sicalliterarure. However, Mr. Sullivan ignored the easiest method of acquainting oneself with the classics. Without even leaving one's room, one can attend 17 hours of fine arts performances each and every day-simply by tuning to 88.9 WSND-FM. I believe this to be the easiest way possible to expose oneself to performances of classical music. I do hope Mr. Sullivan's error was mere­ly an oversight, or he too has been missing out on the finest of performances offered by WSND/FM. Finally, I do hope many music lovers will follow Mr. Sullivan's sugges­tions and tune in to Notre Dame's fine arts service­WSND/FM. Thank you. 
Matthew A. Bedics Program Director 

Security ready to help 
Dear Edttor, 

The Security Department is appalled at the thought of a life taken for any reason. The fact that such a life was taken in the nearby vicinity only last Monday night points up some ofour concerns. We will assist in any way possible that we can. The South Bend Police can feel welcome calling upon our services. Both the Director and Assistant Director were at the scene within the hour of the crime being reported. The department monitors radio traffic of are::.. police in an effort to keep our cars in­formed of nearby happenings. 
We have a meeting sche­d~led for Monday afternoon to dtscuss methods of reducing tension resulting from the fears present now. That meeting will be with the South Bend Chief of Police. We have had others with him and other agencies and plan to continue such meetings. Quick advice for the present revolves around security of the campus resi­dences. We suggest dead bolt locks, know who is coming to the door. Use lights as effectively as possible. Be good witnesses by helping to watch out for your neighbor. Don't leave dressing room drapes, curtains, or shades open t~ outside view. Explore potential alarm devices with owners or other residents of apartment complex dwellings. Walk in groups if possible or a~range transportation with fnends rather than taking a chance on the unknown. 
Report suspicious activities to your local police agencies. 
Glenn L. Terry Security Director 
Sacred Heart alive 

Dear Editor: 
Sacred Heart Church -at the heart of our cam~us-is a ''neo-collegiate-gothtc-reform' ' building, and a very good example of this late 19th century architerture. to be sure. As the liturgical and pastoral and spiritual center of our campus, tt should not be just an old building, or a museum. 
Tonight it was mud, more, it was alive with the s• mgs and sounds offine contemporary /li­turgical music and dance and prayer. A true mystery ~lay was ~resented. "The Pilgnm" by Rtchard Proulx. A reltgious drama in keeping with this Easter Season, simple but strong, difficult but very beau­tiful, presented prayerfully and generously by over one hun­dred University students and faculty. There was a full hand bell chorus, a small orchestra, a fine chorus. There was fine dance and most moving stag­ing. The Medieval mystery play was intended to teach the faith to the simple and usually unlettered fold. "Worship overflowed into drama. The Gospel became, as it was always meant to be: a story. The principle was that if you really understood that the Gos­pel is a story acted out by real people, the right ideas would generate themselves. Nowa­days the trouble often is that we start with the ideas and not the people" (faken from pro­gram notes by Erik Rouile). At Notre Dame, we, perhaps more than anyone, need to make the Gospel "COME ALIVE". It is through means such as ''The Pilgrim", that we are a Univer­sity, and more important, a University devoted to Gospel values. 
It was a professional presen­tation but without profession­als. The Music Department, the Department ofCommunica­tion and Theatre, the Depart­ment of Art and Campus Ministry are all to be lauded for this great work. 

Each and every student and Faculty member should see this, for it is far too good to overlook. 
Rev. Richard}. Conyers C.S. C. RectorIKeenan Hall 

Fitzsimmons forgotten 

Dear Editor, 
On Monday evening there was a sports banquet to honor the Notre Dame women ath­letes. Many deserving women received awards and reco_gni­tion for their outstanding achievements. One outstand­ing woman was not honored, although she was at the ban­quet from start to finish, and I feel she deserves public con­gratulations for her hard work and accomplishments. Her name is Terri Fitzsimmons and she was rhe only member of the 1979-80 Women's Swim Club to 9ualify for the National Compewions in Meadville, Pennsylvania (Four other N.D. women went, but they were members of the men's swim team). I seriously question how Coach Dennis Stark, in speaking about the swimmers at the banquet, could have "accidentally omitted" Terri's name from the list of only five 
N.D. women who achieved such standing. In addition to Terri's national ranking, she was one of the instrumental women in the formation of the Women's Swim Club. She holds the N.D. women's record for the fifty-yard freestyle. And her brother, Ed, was an outstanding member of the men's swim team. The name "Fitzsimmons" is certainly familiar to Mr. Stark. Yet her "Forgot" to recognize her at the banquet. Mr. Stark's omission cannot be passed off as a simple oversight. He was given the opportunity to correct his error (which was verbally pointed out to him by one of the chairwomen of the ban­quet) when he took the podium for the second time to acknow­ledge the senior members of the club. He mentioned the names of two seniors who were not present; then he called Terri up to the podium to give her a N.D. pin (which all seniors received). Once again, Mr. Stark "accidentally for­got" to mention Terri's a achievement. Terri, I would like to say what should have been said by Mr. Stark Mon­day night-congratulations for a fine season, and we are proud to know that you repre­Sent the Notre Dame women in the Nationals. 
Susan E. Callan 

Editorial Board and Department Managers

==Ihe_-Obset:ver== 
Editor-in-Chief..... _..... Paul Mullaney SM C Nrws Editor .... __ ..... Mary Leavin 
Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556-Spurts Editor ............... Beth Huffman 
The Observer is an independent newspaper publis..,ed by the students ~f ine ,\1unaging Ea'ltor · · · · · · ., · · · · ·-Mark Rusr Features Editor .... __ ...... Kate Farrell Uuiversit)" of~~tre Dame du ~~and_ Saint ~ary'~ C<.l ~e. It d~-::; not necessarily Editonals Editm .......... Mike Ont~frak t eatures Editor ......... _. Molly Woulfe re Oect the polte~es of th~ a~mt!ltstrauon .of ~1th~~ mstJ: ::~;~_ The news i~ r.eponed :,_,mor Copy f:"d :Jr ··-· · · · ·-Lynne r a· ·y Photo Editor .............. John Macor a:• accurarely and _as ob)C:f.:Uvely as posstblr-. '_..~,wm. ; represent the opmwn of a ~ r'l'S F.ditur · · · · · Pam Dt>~:;n -, 
Rusmes '1• 1 ~e1 ........ Greg Hedges 
major!£1 ·:,f the Ed_~t\>nal Board. Cvlnmentari; 1, opirucn . and letters are the views .V .., Edi•o . Tom JJ( • r tn Advert1. t •· , ~It.:nai a .. Mike Holsinger
._ f tl.etr ::t!.:othors. Column space is available _, .. mt :!A':x:rs of the community, and [IJ.-. fu -....... Iohn t l. · rarh 
Produclz• ; · 1fm,ag ·: .....An'l Monaghan 
t~ {' -t-•. •.rcs,sion of varying opinions on C<f·h~... th•ough letters, is encouraged. SM -i._·cult'• Editor .. Marr;·: ._: assil 
-
IJIII

, ..iiiiiia ;r-, -.-.. iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiin -----­
.... 

--------~------------------~------------p--------~-------·------~----~.-.~·~ 
The Observer Friday, April18, 1980 -page 9 
Off-Campus Crime: Is there an end? 
Michael Onufrak 

The recent off-campus shooting points to !! disturbing reality which must be confronted .if the off-campus crime problem is to be solved m South Bend's Northeast neighborhood. That reality is the unmistakeable ?ivision between year-round South Bend restden.ts and 0-C students of the ND/SMC commumty. 
This division is the inevitable consequence of any situation where the native population. is forced to live alongside ~nother populauon which has no long-term interest in both groups' mutual neighborhood. 
ND/SMC students continually take advantage of their non-student neighbors. On.e needs only to see the litter and hear the notse on Notre Dame Avenue during an average weekend off-campus, to gauge the opi~ion non-student residents of the Northeast netghborhood f!IUSt have of the ND/SMC off-campus c6mmum:y .. This situation alienates the non-student rest-dents. . 
But, at the same time, the student commum~y is enraged at th~ people of South Bend. thelf police are seemmgly helpl~ss to .prevent t~e almost daily ritual of vandahsm whtch occu~s. m this neighborhood. Yet, these same authonues have the manpower and the time to curb the underage drinking which ~ran.spires 3:t the local bars. 0-C students ask whtch 1s more tmp?rtant: 
trying to halt ongoing theft and vandahsm or keeping the freshmen and sophomores out of the bars? 
Who is right, year-round residents who demanri more respect to the neighborhood they reside in permanently, or students who feel victimized by the local people and authorities? 
The problem is a complicated one, which will have no easy solution until 0-C students and their non-student neighbors join together to fight their common adversary: crime. But even if these two groups were to begin to work together, no lasting solution to the problem could be arrived at until the ND/SMC Adminis­trations begin to take an interest in off-campus life. It is clear that both Administrations do not want to take responsibility for what occurs outside of their respective boundaries. The most prominent evidence of this fact is the crime problem itself. Many 0-C houses have been vandalized more than once. Many 0-C cars have been vandalized more than once. And many students are wondering, after last year's shooting of an ND senior and this year's murder of a non-student resident of the neighborhood, ''Who will be next?'' 
On Monday there will be a meeting between representatives of the South Bend police, the Notre Dame Administration, and Notre Dame's off-campus commissioner mark Kelley. Clearly, Saint Mary's should also be represented. This meeting is a long-overdue and very necessary step towards dealing with the problem of off-campus crime. It will be interesting to see what tangible results come from this meeting. 
Tangible results must bt· forthcoming l'recise­ly because of the alleged nature of thts most recent crime, robbery. Robbery has been a reality for most 0-C students ~nd many are wondering what set the house whtch was robbed Tuesday apart from their own house or apartment. Those who have been robbed before know it was nothing more than good fortune. 
Fr. Hesburgh and other members of the ND Administration are quick to condemn the violence and injustices which they see abroad. "Yet," ND/SMC students who liv~ off-campus ask, "what about the problem m ~mr o~n backyard?" Before we try to resolve mter-ctty problems in other American communities, through programs like Urban Plunge, shouldn't we make our own student neighborhood safe? ND/SMC students off-campus are waiting for answers to those questions. I hope they are prepared to play a fart in the solutions, as ~ey must. And, most o all, I hope we see a soluuon before another shooting has the chance to take place. 
This t:r Michael Omdrak 's second weekly coht lf, wi-'1 '!' t ~ !fcamP'tS resident next year. 


Defending My Position 

Pat Toomey 

When I wrote my original column on the Pinto trial, I had expected a to it. In fact, I thought it woulcJ be if someone wrote a I was not, however, 's character 
rco~tructive 
criticism I letter was a 
personal attack. I that I should 
answer his few subStantive charges and 
establish that I am not an ~employable louse 
who attacks big business out of spite. 

I am disillusioned with present business 
practices, but I am not prejudiced against 
business. When I saw such abuses as the 
DC-10, the Firestone 500 radial, and the 
beloved Pinto, I began to doubt my choice'of 
major. When I saw the toll that the corporate 
world takes on its top executives, my doubts 
grew into conviction. Instead, I have chosen a 
legal career (believe it or not, Mr. Oelerich, the 
law schools I have applied to do seem to like 
me.) 

Once Mr. Oelerich finished his defamation, 
he then made a number of statements that beg 
a reply. First of all, he spent the bulk of his 
letter telling why it was ridiculous to expect 
Ford to produce a totally safe car. In doing so, 
he missed the entire point of my column. My 
point is not that Ford failed to produce a totally 
safe car, but that they ignored an obvious 
hazard that would hve been easy to repair. 

I believe that the Chicago Tribune's headline story of October 13, 1979 more than proves my point. According to confidential Ford memos obtained by the Tribune: "Ford knew from crsh tests before producing the Pinto where the gas tank could be placed to make it safer dunng crashed but apparently decided against the design because the car's luggage space would be reduced. 
Once the Pinto waS in production, 1·or.d conducted tests in which the car's gas tank ws punctured in crashes at about 20 m.p.h., but management did nothing to notify consumers or the government. 
Ford developed several ways to reduce the hazard-some costing less than $10 per car-but decided not to implement the changes until ordered to do so by the government. . 
Ford then joined other automakers m an aggressive lobbying campaign that was successful in delaying and softening proposed federal standards on how strong fuel systems must be to resist rupture and potential explosion.'' 
These memos had ben used very successfully in civil cses against Ford, and they constituted the core of Prosecutor Michael Cosentino's case. In a questionable move, Judge Harold Staffeldt refused to allow the bulk of these memos as evidence. This controversial ruling may have decided the case. 
I am glad that Mr. Oelerich knows that the closing speed of .the Pinto and the. van was. 50 
m.p.h. Since he 1s s~ch an expert m .analyzmg accidents, I am surpnsed that Ford dtd not call him as a witness. I, unfortunately, am not so certain about the closing speed. I do know that the van ws moving at about 50 m.p.h. at the time of the crash. I also know that seven eyewitnesses testified that the Pinto was definitely traveling as fast as 35 m.p.h. when the crash occured. This seems to mdicate a closing speed of much less than 50 n•.p.h. 
Probably the most disturbing aspect of the trial came at the end of Ford's defense. Ford brought in expert witnesses and had them show how dangerous other 1973 subcompacts w.ere. One witness, a former head of the Nattonal Highway Transportation Saf~ty Administration, said that these other cars mtght have had fuel systems designs even more unsafe than the Pinto's. Where were these experts seven years ago? They were keeping g,uiet while the automakers spent millions tc:;llmg us how good these cars were. Mr. Oelench seems to have no doubts, but I really wonder about a systems that operates in such a fashion. 
Pat 'lowzey writes occasional~..,, for 1he ( bserver O't politics ami o~her perl'inent isst. es. 
Reagan Not That Bad 

Joseph Falvey 
Mr. Patrick Ireland recently wrot~ a letter to 
the Observer in which he blindly attacked Gov. 
Ronald Reagan. He initially made a point 
stating t:.at Reagan has reversed his position on 
the abortion issue. He rambled on from that 
point to make a number of irrational statements; 
e.g., that it is not pro-life to be concerned with 
the life of the unborn only to have them blown to 
bits protecting American business interests in 
the Middle East, or that Reagan's motto, "Let's 
make America Great Again'' makes it obvious(?) 
that Regan intends to benefit big business at the 
expense of the poor. · 
If Mr. Ireland would calm down long enough 
to make any logical points, I might be able to 
rebut his charges in an equally logical form. 
Unfortunately, Mr. Ireland chose to make blind 
accusations rather than well-reasoned points. 
Thus, rather than rebutting arguments, i must 
simply state some of Gov. Reagan's positions. 
It is tru that Gov. Reagan has reversed his 
position on abortion. As Governor of Calif?rnia, 
Reagan signed intc law one of the most l~beral 
abortion laws in the country at that ttme. 
Subsequently, Mr. Reagan has signed bills 
which provided funding for abortions. He did 
this out of the very mistaken and misplaced 
sense of compassion for women who were at the 
time resorting to what became known as 
"back-room butcher shop" abortions a the 
hands of unskilled, frequently unlicensed 
physicians. 

Gov. Reagan, along with many, many others 
has seen that his compassion was misplaced and 
should have gone to the unborn human being. 
His major cmicern now is to have others see the 
error of their ways, renounce abortion, and stop 
the slaughter of the unborn here in this country, 
both by passage of the Helms Human Life 
Amendment and by the appointment of pro-life 
justices to the Supreme Court. The National 
Right to Life Committee has acknowledged 
Reagan's sincerity on this isue, and he is the 
only remaining candidate of either parer. which 
has this committee's approval. )both Phd Crane 
and Bob Dole, the other two pro-life candidates, 
have dropped out of the race and endorsed 
Reagan.) 

Mr. Ireland also infers (errantly) that Gov. 
Reagan has no compassion for the poor of this 
country and that he is somehow a warmonger. 
The statement that Gov. Reagan is contempt­
uous of the poor seems to be in conflict with his 
support of the Kemp-Roth Tax Cut Bill, which 
calls for a 90 Yz bracket tax cut for the lowest 
income American taxpayers. Perhaps Mr. 
Ireland will explain how this is exploitative ofthe 
poor and provide us with a solid argument which 
may then be discussed. 

The argument that Gov. Rea~an is a warmonger is belied by the followmg facts: First, Reagan opposes the reimposition of the draft registration or the draft unless there is a national emergency. Secondly, it is not his opinion that peace is to be gained through a policy of appeasement and continued unilateral concessions to the Soviet Union. Indeed, such self-defeating policies have brought us much closer to war as we have grown weaker. The Soviets (and the world generally) respect strength and are contemptuou~ of weakness. Reagan grasps the obv10us conclusion that increased military preparedness and a strenghtening of American resolve are essential is we are to enjoy peace and liberty. 
It should now be clear that Mr. Ireland's attempts to portray Reagan as uncompassionate and a warmonger are urifounded. Furthermore, while it is true that Reagan is a convert to the pro-life position, he should not be criticized for switching the the right side of the issue. I only wish that President Carter, John Anderson, and the]ustices of the Supreme Court have the same change of heart on abortion that Gov. Reagan did. Any such enlightenment exhibited by these individuals would be greeted with cheers from this corner, nor charges of hypocrisy. 
]o:oeph Falvey is a member of Ronald '?.ea.?en· 's campus organization at Notre Dame. 
~.............iialliiiiiiii~iiiiiiiiiiiiiii~iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii.iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiUiiiiiiii~iiiiiiiiiii~iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiilit
-


~­
I ,. 
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 





Features 

Friday, Aprill8, 1980 -page 10 

Games People Plar 

Somewhere, in the uncharted re­
cesses of LaFc:rtune, enshrineJ in 
black and white, there exists a file 
detailing the nine-month histo.-y of 
Gamer's Anonymous. 
Questions already weary the rea­
der's mind: What is "Gamer's 
Anonymous?'' Who owns it, Does it 
make a profit? Where is it and what 
is it doing there? Is it kosher? 
GA was designed, simply, to bring together people who like to play certain\ games with other people who like to play those same games. There are no dues, no meetings, no elections, and no hassle. The only record kept is one of the present members. According to founder and president, Kris Wheaton, "GA is a unique organization as far as organi­zations go. It exists solely to serve the student. It is an entirely voluntary club with about 20 full­time, active members and over 100 part-time members." 
All anyone has to do to find a player is call the GA "office" (located in GA President Kris Wheaton's room), specify his game and ask for the names of some players. An index that cross-refer­ences player with the type of game played is used to find an appropriate opponent. If a member gets called and does not want to participate then he or she simply says, "No," and is then left unbothered. 
A certain casualness characterizes GA. All activities initiated by the club operate on the Baggit Rule, that is, if enough people are interested then the event comes off as sche­duled. If, however, the plan fails to excite anyone then the ersrwhile organizers simply "Bag it." 
Three major events have been held using this system. The first was an Abiogenesis Eve party, held October 13th. Abiogenisis Eve is a celebra­tion marking the origin of life on earth: a birthday party for the first 
lifeform, if you will. GA members 
were encouraged to come as their 
favorite micro.:-organism. In addition 
to traditional festivities, a game, 
newly designed by one of the GA 
members was playtested. 
The First annual Leap Year's Day Costume Party and Scavenger Hunt, the second product of the "Baggit Rule'' centered around a scavenger hunt which sent GA members, in costume, into the wilds of Notre Dame to find such invaluable items as a lock of hair plucked from the head of a girl from Badin and a piece of paper with the word "Hunch" written on it. Points were alloted for each item and an overall winner was finally declared. Dan Dwyer, co­organizer for the costume party, stated, "I don't know what we are going to do about next year. We are thinking about moving March up a day or so." 
Finally, a Free University course, taught by Wheaton, is being offered this semester on fantasy role-playing. 
Through a series of lectures and game-playing, such diverse subjects as The Ideal Player Character, Magi­cal Systems: Mnemonics vs. Lawful Rationalization, and What to do in Case of ~ttack by Dragon are being taught. 
In addition, many impromptu so­cial gatherings (known to GA mem­bers as ''drunken orgies'') and no less than four campaign-type games are being sponsored by GA. Joe LaBella, freshman member of GA, stated, after a recent gathering, "GA is good.'' 
When asked why he organized GA, Wheaton commented, "I have been a lover of games since way back. However, I found it difficult to find opponents. Consequently, I develop­ed GA with the idea that surely out of 8000 people there would be others with the same problem. I think that tj:tis assumption is valid given the fact that over 100 people signed up with us on activities night. I also needed something else to put down on my law school applications," Wheaton admitted somewhat sheepishly. 

The variety of games played is both broad and colorful. Classics, such as Backgammon, Go and Monopoly are well represented, but more exotic types, like historical simulation, fan­tasy role-playing, and science fiction games are also frequently played. 
PanzerBiitz, a relatively popular 'game produced by Simulation Publi­cations Incorporated, relies on the World War II Eastern Front for its background. Played on a map gridded into hexagons to facilitate movement, opponents re-enact vari­ous scenarios, pitting a variety of military forces against one another in bloody battle. Combat is regulated through the use of die and a combat results table. 
Another popular game is Star­Force: Alpha Centaun· in which the player becomes a StarForce comman­der attempting to save his home worlds from invasion while destroy­ing his opponent and capturing his home systems. This game utilizes a unique three-dimensional map board covering most of our galaxy. Combat is resolved by casung a mentally amplified "net," then attempting to hurl your opponent into a distant solar system or black hole. 
The most popular of the games played by GA members is Dungeons and Dragons. The game details a basically medieval setting with the addition of elves, goblins, ogres and 
the like. Players are given basic statistics and assume a persona in a world developed by the Dungeon Master. The players then act their roles in this world until their charac­ter is killed or the game is laid aside. Anyone interested in becoming an 
active GA member is encouraged to 
call Wheaton or Dwyer at 1621. 
Thran Orinson 

Miracle Max [Kns Wheaton] fin­i.shes off Knzftar the Knifty [Scott Reuter] after a quarrel. [photo by jack Martin] 
John Reid!, member of GA said "GA. is totally. useless except 'that i; provtdes me wtth a couple of parties to. go to and some.body to play games wtth.'' And that ts exactly what it is supposed to do. 
Editor's note: Thran Onnson, a senior from Lebanon, Tennessee is a member in good standing of GA. 
CEL Offers Summer Service Project 
All too often we look at things but do not really see them. Or we look and 
see the external, while the real remains buried at a deeper level. For many 
students, the city is like that. Living in the suburbs most of their lives and 
going into the heart of the city only for a shopping spree or to the stadium 
for a game, we look past the inner city and the people who live there. 
Hwe you ever asked yourself what this type of environment could teach 
you? Have you ever wanted to try your hand working with people in service 
agencies or justice groups? Have you ever wished you could spend an 
('X,('nded time, maybe a summer, learning to understand this inner city life 
and meeting people who live in its neighborhoods? 
The Center for Experiential Learning (CEL) in conjunction with several 
Notre Dame Alumni Clubs is interested in offering students full-time 
opportunities to work in the area of social concerns. This new program is 
called SUMMER SERVICE PROJECT and will begin its pilot program this 
summer, 1980. 
Job descriptions will vary from city to city, generally the jobs will be related 
to a specifically Catholic social agency. The Catholic Committee on Urban 
Ministry (CCUM), and other church groups will be consulted to determine 
areas of rl"al need within the city where supervision and teamwork are 
possible and where the student will find a challenging service/learning 
expenence. 
Applicants must be freshmen, sophomores, or juniors who will be returning 
to Notre Dame in the fall. Application and selection will be coordinated by 
the Ct·nter for Experiential Learning, Room 1110 Memorial Library. 
However, final selection will be made by the sponsoring agency itself. 
The initial proposal states that: "Students are expected to lzve with the people where they serve, usually in the inner city." The Alumni Clubs will be invited to offer a stipend to cover the costs incurred for room and board, transportation on the job and training as may be needed by the student. The amount of the stipend will not exceed $500 per student and will not be needed at all in some instances. Stipends from the Alumni Clubs will be gifts to the University for its total commitment to social concerns. 
Students will be responsible for personally visiting the director of the 
servtce proJ!!Ct who will be lookmg tor someone capable of responding to 

h~man needs. Students must also be willing to present written and audio 
VIsual reports of their summer experiences to members of the Alumni Club 
and other groups when they return to campus. 
For ma~y students, such an opportunity could be once-in-a-lifetime chance 
to consciously choose a summer of social involvement before embarking 
upon a career and/or family responsibilities. Others, with a few years of 
col~eg~ befor~ them!Day .find. such an experience vital in selecting a truly 
satt~fymg maJor or lt~e dtrecw;m. Su~h a summer would involve challenge, 
testmg, and developmg of skills whtch can be integrated into the rest of 
one's life. 

. Many s~udents wit~ a keen interest in such service projects may feel that is 
ts financt.ally unfeastble for them to particiP,ate, as they ordinarily count on 
summer mcome to provide part of their raptdly increasing tuition costs. Yet 
a~d~tional borrowing to afford such a summer would really add a very 
mtmmal to the monthly payments already in the offing. The Center for 
Experiential Learning has done a little research on loan payments and can 
advise prospective students about this concern. 
Former students,. i.e., alumni in several cities, have thought it worthwhile eno.ugh to offer ~upends to Notre Dame to enable studetns to try it, thus easmg th~ financta~ burden somewhat. Both the application process and the contact wtth alumni and members of church groups in one's own home town will afford benefits. 
Fath~r Don McNeill, ~.S.C. of the Center for Experiential Learnin_g will be ~peakmg t<? the Aluf!!nt Se.nate on May 2nd and would like to know if you are ~nterested m explonng thts SUMMER SERVICE PROJECT this summer or m t~e futu~e. He hopes .that a few other Clubs might sponsor a summer ~ervtce proJect and knowmg that students from a particular Club area are Interested m the {lrogram might get more Clubs involved. 
If you or your fnends are interested, contact KAREN SMITH, CEL, ext. 2788 or Mary Ann Roemer, Volunteer Services, ext. 7308. Applications will be available the week of April 2oth. · 
Editors Note: Karen Smith is a regular Features Contn'butor 

Karen Smith 



Features 

Friday, April18, 1980 -page 11 

LETTERS TO A LONELYGOD 


A Single Story Mountain 
'"Bob", sa1'd Father Raymond, t>.C.S.O., whom I was meeting for th~ fir~t time, ''wh~t the hell are you domg m here? Th1s is the Bishop's suite." I smiled as humbly as I could, so that he could see I wasn't spoiled by pride. 
"Are you a mystic?" I said. He certainly dido' t talk like a mystic; but when a man has been a Trappist monk for over forty years, as he has, you can never tell what viruses of virtue he may have caught from the 
holy books and the solitude. 
''I'm not a mystic," he said, 
laughing as though I had asked him 
to try on a suit that fitted him like a 
tent, "I'm a mistake." 

I knew he was a holy man; there was no mistake about that. I felt comfortable enough to ask him about his experience with God, as one traveller might ask another traveller for landmarks along the way. 
"Well," I said, "I just thought you might be a mystic.'' 
''You thought you might find an old fellow going around with folded hands and cast down eyes?" He posed in that manner as though he were modeling to be the monk of the Spanish carvmgs; then he laughed again, and his laughter was as natural as sunshine. 
''Over thirty years ago,'' I said, '' as a seminarian in the novitiate, I read your book, The Man Who Got Even With God. I couldn't believe the austerity of the life: the silence, the fasts, the work, the hours as a choir monk. Has it been a hard life?" 
"We have it made," he said. "The fellows in the parishes are the guys wlio have it rough.'' '· 
"I think you. must be the most famous Trappist in America,'' I said. "When I was a young man, you made loving God seem to be as great an adventure as sailing tor Treasure Island." • 
He protested the praise; then, for over an hour, we talked, and afterwards concelebrated Mass at the High Liturgy of Sunday morning. 
In the silence after Communion, heavy with the traffic of unimagin­able graces, I felt at peace in the Abbey at Gethsemani, like a spirit­ual chicken who had come home to roost. 
I began my weekend retreat in the Bishop's suite (through the kindness of Brother Patrick Hart, the guest­master) by changing a fuse. The lights in my room were out when I arrived, and all the monks were in bed; so, as a perfect stranger at Gethsemani, I located the fuse box, and replaced the burnt-out fuse. I would have been embarrassed to wake up a monk, even ifI had known where one slept. I could imagine that St. Benedict had given the advice: "Let sleeping monks lie." On the other hand, contemporary opinion says: it is better to change one fuse than to curse the mona­stery. Cursing, however, seems preferable to being electrocuted. Fearing that Thomas Merton's words could prove prophetic, I seemed to be tempting the ironies by fiddling with the electricity; "Every­thing that touches you shall burn you, and you will draw your hand in 
pain ... for this end, I have brought you to the Cistercian Abbey of the poor men who labor in Gethsemani: 
''That you may become the brother of God and learn to know the Christ of the burnt men.'' 
On that weekend, God did not send 
fire as a messenger telling me to come home; He onlv invited me to climb a single-story mountain, where, to my surpnse, at the top, there was a hfe-size figure of Christ, 

His hands raised to His head in a gesture ot anguish a man might make if he thought God had forsaken him; majestic, with unutterable dignity, overwhelmed by sorrow, like the prince of a royal house, grieving for the love of his people who have consented to his death. Only after seeing the Lord, could I recognize that the place was the Mount of 
• Olives. A little distance away, further down on the hill, were the figures of apostles asleep, when their Teacher needed them to keep Him company. 
"I should have understood," I thought. "Lord, this is Your garden of Gethsemani. When they told me it was a garden, I had expected to find flowers. Instead, I see the followers who were not yet strong enough to be the brothers of God, shrinking back from Your pain, fearful of becoming the poor, burnt men who know You as the Christ." 
There is another single-story mountain at Gethsemaoi, where Thomas Merton lived, in solitude, as a hermit; a place, Merton said, not 
where he expected to find God, but a place where he thought God might like to find him. It may have been, for all I know, Merton's Mount of Transfiguration. After two years, he might have said, like Martin Luther King: "I've been to the mountaifl Mine eyes have seen the glory of the coming of the Lord." If that was Merton's experience, he has left me far behind, in the company of apostles who fell asleep on Jesus when He needed the rough touch of their hands on his shoulders to keep Him from sweating drops of blood. Folks goin~ to the theatre sometimes compare tickets, to find the place where each one is sitting. Folks travelling towards heaven need to 
Rev. Robert Griffin 
compare tickets :;tlso; otherwise, they can make the mistake of g~tting off at the wrong station, before they have travelled long enough and far enough. 
I'm not moving on a mystic's ticket, there's no Mt. Sinai in solitude for me. I just needed touch faith with the {>OOr men who labor in Gethse­mam. From a single-stor y moun­tain, on a clear day you can see forever, even though it is a March­brown hillside in Kentucky covered with mud. 
In church, before Mass, Father Raymond said: ''I'm glad to see you're a holy guy." The remark surprised me, for I'm no the least bit holy; but suddenly I felt as if he had given me the code words welcoming me to the brotherhood of Gethse­mani. The simple, gracious lang­uage of the monk who got even with God left me glowing from the hospi­tality of one American priest saying he felt comfortable with another American priest, and we were friends in Jesus, Who would show mercy to us both. Mysticism could not have brought us closer; rum and gin could not have shown us as well what good fellows were. It only took sincere words that weren't the least bit accurate, and two priests knew that they shared faith, and would recognize each other in heaven. 
Sometimes, when you go out to dinner, you hope that your companion has brought more money then you've brought;because, relying on him, you'll be able to afford a more expensive meal. Sometimes, in believing, you want to borrow from a more perfect faith; to your surprise, you discover you already have all the faith you ne~d. 
That's the truth that awaits you when you climb a single-story· mountain . 
• 

Uncommon Women; Wiles and Worries 
A catatonic freshman. A hyper­active Harvard-ring-sporting cheer­leader. An uncertain pre-law stu­dent. Place them together in a Mount Holyoke dorm in 1972 and you have Uncommon Women and Others, a two-act comedy by American playwright Wendy Wasserstein, dir­ected by Theater major Lisa Jaquez. Uncommon Women closed yesterday after a successful three-night run in Regina Auditorium. ' 
Jaquez, an ND senior, directed the play for a class practical, in conjunc­tion with the Senior Arts Festival. 
Besides selecting a play with an all-female cast, she organized an all-female backstage crew, to com­plete the atmosphere of a play ''for women, about women, by a woman.'' 
Uncommon Women worked, thanks to the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's actresses involved, rather than the script itself. In her attempt to create a sympathetic but comical version of the wiles and worries of several women ~raduating from college, Wasserstem saturated her script with bad jokes, all but sub­merging her characters in bathroom humor. r ortunately' Jaquez's troupe managed to reach between the one-liners to establish a cross-linkage of realistic anxieties and doubts that kept the play believable and together. 


The central characters are six graduating seniors, all conceEned about their impending initiation into ''the real world." After four years of a women's college, of being taught that they are the leaders of tomorrow, the women begin to wonder about the extent of their capabilities. 
Annie Patterson played Kate, an everything-going-for-her pre-law student hesitant to commit herself to law school, who unconsciously over­shadows her ex-roommate, Leilah, (Kathleen Connelly) in every pursuit. Muffet, a dazzling blond frightened of single life, was portrayed by Anne Slowey. Judith Curlee p1ayed Samantha, a beautiful but not-too­bright girl eager to marry her Hollywood-bound boyfriend. 
Exceptional pertormances must be cred-ited to Adri Trigiani and Carol Cieri in their respective roles as Rita and Holly.' Trigiani reveled in her rowdy role as an Italian cyclone, determined to· ''make it with every­thing ... dogs, cats, trees, bushes, ashtrays ... " and Cieri was wistful as a shy Jewish wallflower. In one of the pfay's most poignant scenes, Holly, huddled under her expensive raccoon coat, dials a near-stranger and proposes a rendezvous. Turned down, she rambles awkwardly "I like my friends ... rhey're really excep­tional, uncommon women, and all that dribble. Of course they're not risky." 
Mary Jo Hicks appeared as Mrs. Plumm, the girls' housemother, d~voted to sherr~ and Emily Dickenson, Joan Qumlan as Susie Friend, the hyperactive rah-rah who successfully drives everyone up a wall, and Mary Pigott as Carter an intensely private freshman who types in time to Handel. 
Despite the occasional overdose of poor jokes, Uncummon Women and Others is a bittersweet and timely play that reveals some of the doubts modern women face upon college graduation. Jaquez's troupe made ~he medicine go down without hurt­mg too much. 

Molly Woulfe 

'. ;:"""'«tf.tr~.•• f f ... '!'-.....·.~ ... #r"'' ..... # .IIi.~,. .. ~ (//. ............ 4: ..... f ............ " ~ • ' .. ' ... 

'.. 
The Observer -Sports Friday, Apri118, 1980 -page 12 
Molarity by Michael Molinelli Baseball 

Thursday's Games 
St. Louis 12, Pittsburgh 9 
Chicago 4, New York 1

Pigeons hy Jun McOure/Pat Byrnes 
Los Angeles 6, Houston 4 San Francisco 7, San Diego 3 


ACROSS 33 Plunder 50 Name shared 25 Pillbox, 1 Last 34 Move by 13 popes for one letters sideways 
51 Helen's 26 Ritual 



Th Dail c d 
7 Sunshade 35 African 14 Spirited, grassland 

53 ~~~~or l~a~e~:-e y rosswor
28 in music 36 Atlas item artist together 15 Mean 37 Place of 55 Torrid zone 29 Lexicog· 16 Earhart rest 57 Fruit rapher's and others 38 He: Lat. 58 Hebrew relative 18 All in 39 Mail-order prophet 30 Dispossess 19 Wrinkled option 59 Moist 31 Play the 20 Thrash 40 Fight with 60 Method ponies 22 Put cargo lances 32 Tumbled aboard 41 English DOWN 34 Spiritual 23 Big jet isle 1 Racetracks self letters 42 Baboons 2 Puccini 35 Contend 24 Region of 44 Weather heroine 36 Massive Greece science and others stone 27 Weird 45 Collection 3 One of 37 Pudgy 29 Sailor of anec· these days 39 Elevator 32 Gounod's dotes 4 Outburst of cage opera 48 Dull sound laughter 40 Lively 5 Stiff trial dance 6 Ocean 42 Noted ltal­
Yesterday's Puzzle Solved: 

7 Secondhand ian family goods 43 Cheer outlet 44 Sit in on 
8 -Maria classes 9 Indeed 46 Recess 10 Dress in 47 Shillong is finery here 11 Previously 48 Drink to 
mentioned excess 12 Molding 49 Damage 13 Directed 52 Sacred bull 17 After tip of Egypt 
or tap 53 Hem and ­
21 With a leg 54 Our: Fr. on each 56 Legal side matter All Rights Reserved 


Boston  4  2  .667  
Baltimore  3  3  .500  1  
Toronto  3  3  .500  1  
New York  3  4  .429  1%  
Milwaukee  2  3  .400  1V2  
Cleveland  1  5  .167  3  
Detroit  1  6  .143  3V2  

Wast 
Chicago 5 2 .714 
Texas 5 2 .714 
California 4 2 .667 V2 
Oakland 4 3 .571 1 
Seattle 4 3 .571 1 
Kansas City 3 3 .500 1V2 
Minnesota 3 4 .429 2 
Thursday's Games 
Boston 5, Detroit 4, 11 innings 
Toronto 1. Milwaukee 0 
Chicaoo 6. New York 6 
Baltimore 5, Kansas City 2 Seattle 4, Minnesota 3 
Only games scneouled 
Friday's Games 
Kansas City (Splittorff 1-0) at Detroit (Rozema 0-1) Milwaukee (Haas 0-1) at New York (Tiant 1-0)Texas (Comer 0-1) at Boston (Stanley 1-0)Chicago (Baumgarten 1-0) at Baltimore (Ford 0-1), (n) 
Minnesota (Felton 0-0 and Erickson 0-1) at Seattle (Honeycutt 1-0 and Bannister 1-0), 2 
California (Kison 0-1) at Oakland (Kingman D-1), (n) Only games scheduled 
WSND AND PSYCHOLOGICAL SERVICES PRESENTS 
SPOTLIGHT PSYCHOLOGY --13 fast-paced and exciting quarter-hour features of useful and interesting information which every individual should have. 
Ti1is senes is a "first" in its effon to enhance public awareness of recent developments in the science :1.1d practice of psychology and of potential impact of research findings on the ctaiiy lives of us ;~II. This week's topic is: 

FROM ENERGY TO EDIBLES: THE CONSUMER PSYCHE­diagnoses the failure ofenergy conservation efforts, nutrition labeling offoodproductsand unitpricing in supermarkets, and offers suggestionsfor more successfulconsume~· education campaigns. B~ sure ro listen ro WSND Sunday evening at Midnight or Tuesday evening at 11:45 pm. 
, .............. --,.. ..... ·­


HAIR DESIGNS FOR THE A WARE MAN AND WOMAN 
SPECIAL.OFFER 
Free Redken Shampoo and Co~ditioner With any haircut 
$3sovalue ~EDKEN Through April 30 
MON,TUE,WED ONLY 
~~~.Rs 8:Jn.s·nn Thurs. 8.30-8:30 lfot ~n Appointment,, Tues. 8·30-5·30 Fri. 8 30·6 30 Wed. 8 30-6 30 Sot. 8 00·4 00 c~n 234-6767
. 


I
I 
The Observer -Sports 1Friday, April18, 1980 -page 13 
...Shoes 

[continued from page 16] 
"I love shortstop-it's really 

mv position. The biggest ad­
justment I had to make coming 
into shortstop from the outfield 
was mental. Shortstop is such a 
key position that I have to be 
prepared for every play and for 
what my role will be wherever 
the ball was hit. The outfield 
tends to dull your ·concentra­
tion because you aren't involv­
ed in as many plays." 
Barrish has committed only 

one error in 17 games (on a 
pop up, of course) and has 
come alive at the plate, rap­
ping out hits in 11 of those 
games at a .333 pace. He has 
two hits in five different games 
and has driven in five runs. 
"Coach called me the desig­

nated bunter last year,'' says 
Notre Dame's leadinf? sacrifice 
hitter in 1979. "But this year I 
can hit as well as I can bunt. 


B • f

SPorts rle S
·-------...,I and 6-3 overall tally. 

biggernamed chairman ofRun 
Richard "Digger" Phelps, head basketball coach for the 
Fighting Irish, has agreed to serve as Honorary Chairman 
for the 2nd Annual· Mic:hiana Lung Run. 
Phel£ls. who was recently appointed to ~he American Lung 
Association board, will temporarily retire his basketball 
training shoes and don running shoes as he assists in 
promoting the Second Annual Michiana Lung Run. The 
Lung Run includes a five and 15 kilometer footrace and a 
five kilometer Ruth Hernly fitness walk. 
The Michiana Lung Run will start at Howard Park on 
Saturday, June 7, 1980 with an expected 1500 participants 
suring off with the sound of the gun. 
Anyone, any age is encouraged to participate by filling out 
an entry blank, available .at the South Bend Tribune, Hook's 
Drug or the American Lung Association, and pay the $5.oo 
entry fee. 


ND JWjtballers play twinbill 
The Notre Dame· women's softball team will play St. Xavier's of Chicago in a doubleheader at Leiphart Pa~k today. Brant Hackman, a 1951 graduate of Notre Dam_e, wtll coach the second-season team organized by Karen Ohg and Beth LaRocca. The Irish, 0-2 after losses to Grace College welcome newcomers. Those interested should contact Oltg at 2163 or 1258. 

1-hall baseball resumes Sunday 
All first-round winners in the interhall baseball to~rna­ment will compete on Sunday in second round actton .. Captains should contact the Interhall Offtce today, tf possible. The office itself will attempt to contact teams by Saturday at 5 p.m. 


Pinocchio's ..>~~$ Pizza Parlor Q.) 
Georgetown Shopping Center ND I 
announcing 


TUESDAY NIGHT 
is 


lADIES NIGHT! 

6-10 pm all drinks V1 price 
----------~-------~~~

1$2 off any large $1 off any smallI : pizza pizza fI -only one coupon per pizza, please 1 1 -coupons expire apn1 30 f 
'l----------------------~------· 
I've never been a power hitter, 
but I can get the singles and doubles.'' 
Banish credits his improve­ment at the plate (he batted .245 in 1979 and had what he termed a "horrendous" fall practice) as well as the team's improvement to a change in mental : attitude . 
"We really believe in our­selves now-when we get in a close game, we expect to win. We're 13-4, it's my senior year and I'm not used to being in this winning position. I walk arou~~ smiling all the time now. 
Banish even smiled about 
his feature article. "I have told 
all the guys on the team for 
four years that one day they 
would do a feature on me and 
title it ''. . . In the shoes of 
Rick Pullano." 
Banish was right. 

Lacrossers gain good, bad news 
by Beth Huffman Sports Eaitor 
Wednesday held a lot of good 
·news and a little bad for the No~re Dame Lacrosse Club. The good news was the club's elevation to varsity status next year, the bad news was the club lost to rival University of Michigan, 7-6, on Cartier Field. . "It was a hard-hitting game fought to the end,'' said Notre Dame captain Nick Gehring. ''Anytime Michigan and Notre Dame get together there is a . good game. We pl_ayed excel­lent, there were JUSt a few missed passes and a few mental mistakes near the end. Without them the outomce could have been very differ­ent." . . 
Notre Dame and the Umverst­ty of Michigan are both mem­bers of the University division of the Midwest Lacrosse Club Association. At present the Wolverines lead the five-team conference with a league re­cord of 3-0 (7-4 overall). Not~e Dame claims second place m the division with a 2-1 league 

This week,nd at River City Records... 




SPRING SALE I 
Sl.OOOFF ALL ALBUMS, TAPES, BLANK TAPES & RECORD CRATES­NO LIMIT I 
(no coupon necessaty) 
SALE HOURS: 
The Irish jumped· to an early lead as Carl Lundblad scored an unassisted goal with just seconds gone on the clock. 
That advantage was not to last long, as Michigan connect­ed with four goals in the remainder of the half while shutting out Notre Dame. 
Paced by Gehring's two goals early into the second half, the Irish mounted a comeback. Lundblad added his second goal of the game, this one with just 11 seconds left in the third quarter. 

STUDENT LEGAL SERVICES 
•BASEMENT, NOTRE DAME LAW SCHOOL 
1LEGAL AID & DEFENDER ASSOCIATION ROOM 8·12 283·7795 11am· 2pm CM·F> other times by appointment 
WEHANDLEALLFINANCIALLY QUALIFIED STUDENTS & STAFF 
Behind by one in the final quarter of play, Notre Dame struggled on, only to see the Wolverines pop in two scores before three mmutes had gone by. Mike Norton and Danny Pace save the Irish two more goals m the closing minutes. 
The Lacrosse Club will spend the weekend in Ohio, first 
' competing with the Columbus Lacrosse Club, a Midwest pow­erhouse. The Irish will close out the weekend against Deni­son University, a team ranked eighth in the nation in Division 
III. 
Thutsday Aptil17 
Ftiday Aptil18 -Satutday Aptll 19 '· Sunday Aptll20 
6:00-ffildnlght (ND/SffiC jonlyl) 
10:00 
a.m.-ffildnlght 

10:00 
a.m.-ffiidnight 


The Observer -Sports Friday, April18, 1980 -page 14 

Tracksters face tough test at Illini Classic 
.by Matt Huffman Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame track team travels to the Illini Classic this weekend for what should prove to be one of the most competi­tive meets in the Midwest this season. Nearly all of the teams from the Big Ten will be there (including powerful Indiana) along with many other potent clubs in the Great Lakes region. There will be no team score kept so the Irish will be competing for individual laurels on Saturday. 
The field of 2 5 to 30 teams should ~nhance the Irish per­formance according · to head mentor Joe Piane: "We expect some very tough competition at Illinois. The best track teams in the Midwest will be there. However, I think that kind of motivation helps our kids per­
form better.'' 

Because the Classic has qualifying times, not all of the Irish roster will compete. 
• • Although the qualifying times eliminate some of the ream from running, it adds to the overall quality of the meet," comments fifth-year coach Piane. 
• In order to get more tracksters in the race for rib­bons, Coach Piane has made a tactical move. 
"We took Jay Miranda and Chuck Aragon off the rwo-mile relay team and replaced them with Kevin Kenney and Jim Slatterv With Aragon and Miranda running the half-mile, this will allo·v more of the team to get in the meet," explained Piane. 
This meet, followed by the prestigious Drake Relays next weekend, will test the Irish. 
NDputs 3-0 slate on the line 
by Kelly Sullivan Women's Sports Editor 
Three tough matches await the women's tennis team this weekend when the Irish travel to Bloomington, Indiana to play the host Hoosiers, Indiana St. anrl Purdue. 
Notre Dame Coach J ory Se­gal will put her squad's 3-0 record on the line against rwo powerful Division I schools (Indiana and Purdue) and a Sycamore club defeated by the Irish in a tournament last fall. 
"I know competing against such tough Divtsion I schools isn't going to be easy," says Segal, "but we need the work before the regionals. You don't get any better playing against weaker opponents.'' 
Segal is looking for good performances from her number two and number four singles players, Linda Hoyer and Carol Shukis. Both are the defending state champions-in their positions. Hoyer, a freshman, has only lost one march this year. 
Notre Dame notched victcries over Texas Lutheran, Saint Mary's -Texas, and Trinity College en route to their 
unblemished  record.  They'II  
face  neighboring  St.  Mary's  
College  next  week  before  

competing in the Division III Regionals in May. 


MASS follow-ed by


S"Llpper 
everyFRIDAY at the 
' 

.______________________________________... 
...Sc~lly 
bars with graduating Irish tight end and guitarist Kevin Hart. Composing ~lassical music is another pasume. 
Boulac swears that Scully's dexterity with his hands helped the squad win a few games during the fall. "He injured his right hand for three or four games so he had to snap with his left hand. There weren't any problems." 
A summer internship at the Senate in Washington was another of those experiences Scully took time for. in his pursuit of a backround for law studies some day. 
"I like· to be known as a person before a football player," insists Scully. "Some­times I wish people here would have more empathy for athletes. 
•
'You hear things like •'free ride" from some people. This is no free ride. Last December was' my first Chiristmas 'home in three years and I get .to see my fiancee, who goes to school in Omaha, only four or five times a year. 

•
'Even in class Itve found professors who stereotype­football players aren't too tough 



.to pick out. Some professors respect you, but there are those that make it hard for you to make a srade." 
Emotwnal, mental, and physical energy spent on the football field is a "job" Scully and the rest of his teammates 

occupy themselves  with  year  
around.  
It's  a  job Scully does  very  
well.  

Junior tri-captain Bob Crable is another member of the Scully fan club. "He can be real vocal when he wants to,'' remarks the Irish middle linebacker. "More often I'd say he's the quiet type who leads by ex­ample. He hardly ever makes a mistake. If he misses a block, he's down~i,eld blocking someone else. 

"I've grown to depend on John," Devine relates while considering that Scully and Tim Huffman are the only returning linemen with startmg exper­ience. "There's all different types of leadership--he's c!)osen to be quiet and though­ful. Vagas Ferguson was that type of leader." 
Pretty good company for a guy who came perilously close to a career in obscurity at Notre Dame. 
"If I've learned one thing here that will help me no matter what I do later on, it.'s been perseverance--it does pay off.'' 
That's a lesson for a guy who just might be able to live up to Devine's expectations and do whatever he wants--and do it well. 

------------------------~ 
[continued from page 16] 

injury that wasn't too serious." 
From his home in Hunting­
ton, Long Island, big John took 
to the road and the weights. By 
September he was in a number 
-three spot on the depth charts 
at tackle. 

"I had always thought I was as good or better than anyone else on the offensive line,'' says Scully, now in the position of not looking over anybody's shoulders. 
"It takes a little bit of arrogance I guess,'' Scully notes, "but you have to be a little arrogant and a little bit determined to do what you want." 
His switch to center in the spring of 1979 was expected with the return of Tim Foley and Rob Martinovich at the tackles. "I would have re­quested it if the coaches hadn't asked," Scully says. "I'm probably more suited to the center position physically than tackle anyway. Tackle is mostly just head-on, bone-crunching hits; the center position is more of a finesse ?.OSition." 
The rehabliitation and every­thing else concerning football aside, there are many more things John Scully can do. 
"Right now, I plan to play pro ball," he observes with an eye to the future, • 'Realistically though, most pro careers don't last more than five or six years so you really can't call that a 
career.  It's  more  like  an  
economic  adventure,  so  to  
speak."  

•'One of mygoals in life is to do as many dtfferent things as I can--music is an important part of my life, too, as well as football." 
An accomplished pianist, Scully enjoys getting away from the game and jamming at the 
.The Senior Arts Festival Presents 
Jazz -Rock-Fusion 
with 
Featuring 
Kathy Breslin 
John Rozzi 
Glenn Belvis 


Saturday Aprill9 
.r-..,........, ......r-.. Hall 
Paul Kosidouski SamDismond Tom Kovacevac 

10:30pm 

TIPPECANOE PLACE RESTAURANT IS NOW HIRING RESTAURANT PERSONNEL full or part time;day and night shifts high wages; excellent benefits training:classroom and on the job cordial atmosphere 
FOOD WAITERS AND WAITRESSES BUSBOYS/BUSGIRLS COCKTAIL WAITRESSES DISHWASHERS BROILERCOOKS HOSTESSES BARTENDERS PREP COOKS MAINTENANCE MEN 
APPLY IN PERSON B~ fWEEN 9:00am &6:00pm
MONDAYTHRUSATURDAY AT EOE-M/F.TIPPECANOE PLACE 620 W. Washin~ton Ave South Bend, Ind. 
The Observer-SportsBoard /Friday, Apri118, 1980 -page 15• 
Bookstore Lambchops and Hipwaders over Too · High by 10 Return to Sweetness over Totally Irresponsible by 2 P.F. & the Flyers over Five F. by 11 Born to Run over I. M. Stiff... by 4 Golden ...over Lucky Pierre by 5 Irish Guards Ill over 69ers by 5 Carver High over H.T. and the Heart breakers by 9 Jackson less 5over Demons that Dogs ... ~8 . Roemer's Narcs over Abdul & ... by 12 Hurtin' over Headers by 14  Knack, Whack.~.over Doc Seeler's by 5 Pink Flamingo over Aunt Bea's Boys by 4 Cogan's Heroes over State by 10 jjye over Beecner's Tool & Die by FORFEIT · Muscle Spasms over Or. Funk by 10 More Beer over Looks Like a Taco by 7 SMC ...over Shaved Ham ...by 11 Go....over White Man's Disease by 2 (OT) . . Whiz Kids over Gig ... by 11 Another Brick over Big 0 by 17 No Name over Moses ...by 2 Snooze Masters over Sir Vic's by 13 King Choice...over Riverfront Col. by 4 4 Honkies ...over Oogsters by 2 (OT) Irish Guard ....over Pres Tito ...by 4 Money In the Bank over Shah of lran ...by 13 Phll. ..over A Pimp ... by 4  Softbal1 Butler 11, St. Mary's 0 St. Mary's 21, St. Mary's Woods 1 Hockey Thursday's Games New York Islanders 5, Boston 4, OT, N.Y. Islanders lead series 2-0 Philadelphia 4, New York Rangers 1, Philadelphia leads series 2-0 Buffalo 6, Chicago 4, Buffalo leads series 2-0 Minnesota 4, Montreal 1, Minnesota leads series 2-0  Basketball WESTERN CONFERENCE SEMI-FINALS FrldJIY'S Game Seattle at Milwaukee, (Game 6) Sunday's Game Milwaukee at Seattle, (Game 7) if necessary (Milwaukee leads the series,3-2) EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS Frlday·s-Game Philadelphia at Boston Game 1) Sunday's Game Philadelphia at Boston (Game 2)  ... Drills [continued from page 16] Pete Holohan, a two-year starter at flanker, will miss the remainder of this spring's drills to concentrate on his studies ... the 6-4 converted quarterback caught 22 passes last fall, and has a fairly solid lock on the starring spot for 1980... junior running back Ty Barber missed Thursday's workout with a slight hamstring pull, but should be back within a couple of days.  

~------------------------------------~----------------------------------------~----------------------------------------~----------------------------------------~--­
All classified ads must be received by 5:00p.m. , two days prior 
to the Issue in which the ad is run. The Observer office will accept 
classifieds Monday through Friday, 10:00 a.m. to 5;00 p.m. All 
classifieds must be pre-paid, either in person or through the mail.









Classifieds 
Notices 
Professional Typing Service. Any size job, accurate, prompt, dependable. lerm papers, Reports, Manuscripts. Barron Services 1408 Elwood South Bend 289-7949 
Attention Long Islanders: There will be an Important meeting for the Long Island Club on Monday, April 21 at 
7:00 p.m. In the Little Theatre of Lafortune, elections will be held. 
Typing done In my home. University Park area. 277-3085. 
Professional Typing. Reasonable Rates. Experience typing thesis, journal articles. 291-0495. 
Typing Plus: Term papers, theses, dissertations. Light editing, ghost writing. Literary search, bibliogra­phies, genealogies. Job resume service. Sliding rate scale based on lead time. Special discounts on full contracts for theses and dissertations. Aardvark Automatic Solutions/ P.O. Box 1204/ 46624/phone 219-289-6753. 
Will do typing. Neat, accurate. Call 287-5162. Thank yo~. 

Lost&Found 
Lost: Timex Gold face and trim watch with abrown wristband. Call 3234 Ask for Bob. 
Emil T. Hofman's Chemistry class notebook found. Run up to the Observer office to Identify. 
Lost: Last Thurs., Set of keys w/ brown leather strap and metallic scorpio pendant. If found, please call 3881 or 8111. 
Found: A calculator in Rm. 303 in Engineering Bldg. Call 4286 to identify. 
Lost: HP-25 March 10-141n Engineer­Ing Bldg. Please return to Lost and Found or Dean's office. 
Found: Set of Computer cards, on the lawn in front of O'Shag. Claim at Observer office. 
Lost: Set of pictures from wallet­
please return-Randy 1735. 
Lost: 1 Math 125 Calculus book, 1 green Chemistry notebook, 1 green Calculus notebook, 1 yellow Eng. Probability notebook. In North Dining Hall, B line. 
Lost: One gold wedding band with inscription date of Oct. 2, 1869. Lost near LeMans. For reward, call Teresa at 4432 (SMC). 
Lost: Blue Alpine backpack with Important notebooks and texts. Lost before break. Reward. Ca11 3324. 
Found: 1 small brown puppy, late Thursday. Call George 3059 or Brian 3057. 
Lost: pair of silver-wire glasses In a green case labeled MOM. In business building. CAll Kathy 6793. 
Lost: wallet in Washington Hall or area ...Saturday evening. 1.0. lnclud­
' ed. Reward call 8936. 
share three bedroom house, newly remodled, all new carpet and partially furnished. Near NO. Call 289-7269 alter 5 p.m. 
Rooms-Now and/or Summer. $40 per month. 233-1329. 
House for rent near Notre Dame, 2 bedrooms, alum. siding, garage. References and Security deposit, call 233-9088. 
For Summer. Pleasant apartment for one. Good neighborhood. Close, swimming pool. $125/mo. Phone 6585. 
Off Campus Housing, 6 bedrooms (with locks). Rented separately. Free laundry and kitchen. Superior rated. Available for Summer and Fall. 291-1405. 

Wanted 
Overseas Jobs-Summer/year round. 
Europe, S. America, Australia, Asia, etc. All fields, $500-$1200 monthly. Expenses paid. Sightseeing. Free information. Write IJC, Box 52-14, Corona Del Mar, Cal. 92625. 
I need one measeley graduation ticket. Desperate!! Mick 8212 $$$$$. 
Attention: anyone Interested In living In South Bend for the summer and wants to live In a house, 1 need 2 housemates. House Is on Eddy St. Call John at 6760. 
Females to share local house for this Summer. Erin 6967. 
Urgent: Wanted-one bassist and one lead vocalist, male or female, for Rock Band (Stones, Zep, Rush, Beatles). To start immediately. Call Dan or Jack at 1766 NOW!! 
Goalie, two players needed for Spring Soccer Team. 277-4482, 283-6614. 
Wanted: Yearbook-any recent non 
Notre  Dame  yearbook.  Call  Tim,  
288-6748.  
Need tutor for Math 105.  Call 3092.  


For Sale 
For Sale: Receiver' 35 watts per 
channel.2 112 yr. warranty. Call Greg 
3678. 

'77 Camero, Silver w/ Black Interior, small V-8 engine, AM·FM cassette, air conditioning. $3000 or best offer. Call Mickey at 7838. 
For Sale: Smith Corona Electric Typewriter. Like new. Best offer. 2 Pioneer car stereo speakers $30.00. Must sell. Call Mike 232-7759. 
Need Cash: Must sell Pioneer SX-680 stereo receiver (30 watts)-plus pair Advent/2 loudspeakers and Garrard 440 M turntable. This is a bargain, believe me. Call Steve. 3047. 
For Sale: Alvarez 6 string acoustic guitar. Call 6369 mornings. 

Personals 
To the girls going to the Grace formal with the guys In 80: We'll wine ya, dance ya, and ----ya! Looking forward to It, aren't you? ?
1---------------­
GOOD LUCK PATTY MCKAY!II!!!I!! 
Lord Father, 
Official Notice, in this case, Is a public announcement' made by the Great Oracle of the Dellan, who usually resides at Delphi but currently is taking an academic vacation from her duties. She is very annoyed that the Delian was able to find an occasion to bother her here. And yes, she usuallt talks in third person singular or first person plural. 
We, the Great Oracle of the Delian here-by remind you that Official Notice has been served. 
Yours truly, G. 0. D. 
Andrea: Now that the ice (machine) has thawed-I'm still hungry. Ryan "pork chops" Ver Berkmoes 
P.S. Leslie, how could you forget my last name? It's supposed to be on every bathroom wall on campus. 
Ryan: Is that the same Leslie from Nickies? Oh, but you wrote your name in the wrong bathroom, remember? 
A. Cohort 

P.S. Shouldn't that be Ryan "SMC chops" Ver Berkmoes? 
Care, Hope you feel better soon. Tl 
Let's go crazy this weekend!! Okay!! 
An Tostal Staff Meeting!!! [Sunday, 
7:00 p.m.l Yes-An Tostalls almost here. This Is our last meeting. Now....the fun begins!! Don't forget, Grotto Mass afterwards. 
Jody,
Good luck today! How can you miss when the entire student body is praying for you? 
Love, Paz 

Chris Lyons, 
Don't worry, we won't tell the world what fun you are on Friday nights in Florida. 
KEY* CMS 

I know we're just friends, but I want you to know you'll never find anyone who cares about you more than I do. I love you. 
Nina, 

Just wanted to say that I can see only one fault in you: You're too "Forward"!· (au contraire!) 
Happy Birthday! Anonymous Kite Enthusiast 
Bro. Larry, Your asparagus story beats ail! How about broccoli and spinach? Three 9o'clock back row bloers 
I hope this birthday surpasses the rest, because to me DJR, you deserve the best'. Happy Birthday. 
Love, MJR 

Kelly Ann, 
From one summer baby to another, July is best. Also, congrats on the new job. Let's celebrate-dinner? Sure, I knew you would. 
July 3 

Chris "The Jerk" Lyons for UMOC! 
Found: Pigeon's pen near red baron. Reward if returned. Contact slow poke. Will deliver. 
Torty and Snugglebuns, 
Good luck tonight!! 

Love, Cattleman's Bounciest 
Horseman 
When they made up the words, "Cheer, Cheer for old Notre Dame," they were asking for Shelly Obermiller Give 'em hell Shel. 
Dear Carlos, When you least expect it, expect it. Your time will come. Guess who? 
Dear Doc STAK, Thanks for the great time last Fridayevening. MAT 
Get your computerized biorhythm $1, LaFortune Center, MWF, 1-3 pm. 
ATTENTION FRESHMEN AND SOPHOMORES: Pursue a certificate program In Social work while you earn your degree. For additional Information, contact: Charles Martucci, 131 Madeleva Hall, Saint Mary's College, Phone 284-4755. 
Charles "Hollywood" Dyer for UMOC Chucky Is Yucky 
Friday is the last day to order color shots of this year's basketball action. Call 8932 for details. 
Get your computerized biorhythm $1 in LaFortune Center, MWF, 1·3 p.m. 
The Boston Club of ND·SMC Presents: Boston Red Sox 
vs. 

Chicago White Sox Baseball game on Mon. April 28. Cost Is $15 [includes ticket, beer, and bus]. Tickets are limited, first come first serve basis. Non-members also Invit­ed. Call Jim Giblin at 1528 for more info. 
Dom Yocious, Dom Yocious, Dom Yocious--where art thou Dom Yocious? 
Applications for Homecoming Chair­man, Nazz Business Manager, and Nazz Director are available In the Student Union office. 
Do You Remember the 60's? If you do, and even if you've only read about it, come to the Beaux Arts Ball and relive Woodstock. April 19th at 9:30 In the Arkie Bldg. All are invited. 
Do You Think NO Is a Borei Do you think N D parties are the worst? Well-no more! The party to end all parties is this Saturday night at 621 Napoleon mansion. Don't miss Ryan's never tee-totaling punch. Will the hosts be "out of It?" Will the hostesses know where they are? There's only one way to find out-so be there! 
Peace, love, and Beaux Arts Ball. 
Lafortune Lunchtime Concert, Friday [18th]11:45·1 featuring Rich Prezioso and Kevin Quigley. 
Welcome back to the acoustic guitar of 
Rich Prezioso 

Kevin Quigley to Lafortune Ballroom Saturday the 19th, 9:30·1 a.m. BE THERE! 
Jody DeGraff: Good luck-wo know you can do It-Love Ya'' All' "'lis 
If I had a dt. ; · ., I' :ey, I'd shave his but, ~ ..u ... . · ~o walk backwards. 
Hussey for UMOC 

shopping days uatil Paul (that's Pawl) Somlofske's birthday! Address all cards and gifts to that Long Island lover at 220 Stanford. 
Dear Bob, 
Hope whatever radio station you're listening to plays Happy Birthday­you said you liked it and we only wanted to make our sweetie happy! 
Best wishes and love, Bernie, Barry, Karen, Scott, Martha, Zurch, Nancy, Rush, and Jan 
Peg, Thanks for a great week In the land of sugar. Rooster &MB 
Diane, Do well on OAT's this Sat. & show Nick up! Love, Lola and Ann 
davey-

We really tried to think of something funny to say on your birthday but your face says it ail. Sorry. 
Jack 
P.S. Hugs and Kisses 
Cath, 

I'll give you a pound of gold or solutions to Chapter 19 if you aflow me one BEBO tonight. 
wso 

P.s. I'd trade my BEBO in for another exception any day! 
P.S.S. For every dinner roll you eat I'm allowed two drinks so watch out!! 
-------~-------­
Give 'em Hell, Shei .. Love ya, friends of the Best-Pep girl 
Chip (Chump), 
I've heard it said that you can play basketball. Therefore, this Is a challenge match. Just you and me (and the bail). Somewhere tomorrow afternoon. You aren't afraidare you? 
s.s. 

Are you as excited about Saturday as I am? Thought so. What do you say we invite everyone over for dinner. 
M.H. 

Kathy, Listen to the sound ... The sound that we will be hearing from you ail next year. Good luck in finals. I know you can do it. 
Love, Willy 

Charles Francis Kruse comes of age tomorrow at 161 AlumnL Ladies, ca11 this eligible young bachelor at 1058 and wish him a happy 19th birthday. 
BEERBALL! BEERBALL! BEERBALL! BEERBALL! 
Can John McGrath hit a home run? Find out this afternoon. 
BEERBALL! BEERBALL! 
Cathy Murnay Do I get my reporter's blazer at tomorrow's banquet? . Ryan
P.S. Can I at least pelt Jim O'Brien with squishy tomatoes? 
Girls: don't sit in your rooms making popcorn Guys: don't sit around the dorm guzzling beer with the nerds next door. Come eat our popcorn and HANNAH AND SANDY-

guzzle our beer within an atmosphere1Best of luck Friday\1 The Women of Sophomores mixed doubles tennis day To Julie Ann and Bridget reminiscent of the roman orgies.
Walsh are rooting for you!! 
Includes refreshments, socializing, Congratulations on your opening. Meet interesting and delightfully and a little chasing the tennis ball. No Best of luck, from your two "Coolest" strange people. Ail at 621 Napolean.
SENIOR FORMAL GOERS: Lost at need to sign up as a team! Bad tennis critics. This has been a paid announcement
Marriots-silver cuff link, sentimental playing allowed. Sat 1-4, $1. Notre by Ryan "yipee" Ver Berkmoesfamily value. Please call 7233 if you 
Dame c.all 6755, SMC 4819.. Attention ladies! Only 4 more
picked It up. 


Friday, April18, 1980 -page 16


Svorts 
Drills focus on goal line sttuattons 
by Craig Chval Sports Wn"ter 

One of Notre Dame's most glaring weaknesses during its 7-4 1979 season was an inability to get the ball into the end zone on first-and-goal situations ... to that end, the Irish took advan­rage of the best weather of the spring to work on full-speed goalline situations ... although it 
Spring Football 

was controTied~me-Cfiillwas the­firs_£ all-out hitting of the spnng. 
The number-one offense, working against the second­team defense, started with the ball first-and-goal on the three ... then the second-string defense tried its luck against the toP. offense ... the pad-rattl­ing dnll was a virtual standoff between the offense and the defense. 
The Irish coaching staff normally uses such drills early in the season, during double­sessions and after the first couple of games, but head coach Dan Devine and his assistants were quite pleased with what they saw ... matching the numbers one and two offenses and defenses against each other is something new this spring, and the Irish brain­trust has declared the experi­ment, forced largely by small numbers, a success ... they point out that individual improve­ment is greater and more rapid when the players are more evenly matched in practice ... 
[continued on page 15] 

'Horseman' 


Crowley to speak 

The annual Rockne Memorial Mass and Breakfast, sponsored each year by the Notre Dame Club of St. Joseph's Valley, will be at 8:30 a.m. Sunday. The Mass in Dillon Chapel will be followed by the 9:30 a.m. breakfast in the South Dining Hall. 
Jim Crowley, last surviving member of the fabled ''Four Horsemen'', will sreak, and special guests wil be the captains of the 1980 football team. Edward ''Moose'' Krause, athletic director and former assistant football coach, will be master of ceremonies. 
Reservations are open to all members of the family and may be obtained by calling Jim Groves, 232-7946, or Paul Hessling, 234-8279. 

Center Scully aims for All-America 
by Gary Grassey John Scully's name isn't 
Sports Wn'ter exactly the kind that rolls off 
the tongue when you think 
"He can be anything he about Irish football, but his wants to,'' says Dan Devine presence on the field and off with a touch of conviction that makes everyone who runs into possesses a brand of sincerity him offer, if nothing else, reserved for few people. respect. 
"He could go into almost any In 1979, Scully was the guy situation," adds Brian Boulac, who stepped into all-America offensive line coach for the Notre Dave Huffman's role as starting Dame football ream, "and center on the offensive line. handle himself well." The 6-4, 255 pounder answered 
Dave Bartish 

In the shoes ofRick Pullano ... 
by Btl/ Marquard Sports Writer 

When .:;orne baseball afician­
ado coined the phrase ''utility 
man'' he might have been 
watching Dave Banish. 

The senior Barrish has play­
ed third base, left field -and 
ri~ht field during his four-year 
Insh cart>er before digging in 
at his accustomed shortstop 
position in this year's spring 
rampatgn. 

But the ''utility man'' image 
ends there, as Banish has been 
a consistent staner at three of 
those four positions, fitting in 
well wherever Notre Dame 
coach Tom Kelly has needed 
him. 

''I had always played in the 
infield before coming to Notre 
Dame,'' explains the graduate 
of Cincinnati's St. Xavter High 
School. "My natural position 
was at shortstop. but that 
position was filled when I got 
here as a freshman, so once I 
had made the team it was a 

matter of fitting in wherever I 
could play." 

That shortstop position was 
filled by the talented shoes of 
Rick Pullano, Notre Dame's 
team batting champion in 1978 

(.356. average) and two-year 
captatn. 
"With Rick at shortstop, I 
knew I had my work cut out for 

me," remembers Banish. ''But playing behind Rick help­
ed me a lot because it pushed 
me to play that much harder 
and challenge him. He also 
helped me a lot personally 
because he was such a great 
guy to have on the team and to 
have helping you." 

After what he admits was a 
''brief' try at third base, coach 
Kelly asked the then-sopho­
more Barrish to try left field 
during the 1978 spring season. 
''Coach's philosophy is that 
if you hit, then you will stay in 
the lineup. So he tried me in 
left ~eld-I think my good 
throwmg arm helped a little, 
too." 

Banish always looked at the outfield as more of an adven­ture. 
''I never had problems with ground balls in the infield, but pop flies were a whole other story. When my parents found out I was playing in the outfield it scared them to death, but I don't know wheth­er they were more scared for me or the team,'' says the business major. 
Banish spent two years in the Irish outfield, i"'n;ing over to ri~ht for hi, jum··-year. "I didn t min-' :-!a~-'t0 0 the out· field. It w<.sa·i >~s r-xciting as the infield: you could kind of take it easy and relax." 
The outfield was not always without excitement, as Barrish quickly recalls. When the Irish traveled to Dayton in late April of last year, the lanky senior became unintentionally involv­ed in an off-the-field game of his own. 
"We played Dayton the day after their classes ended, and they were having an An Tostal­like celebration right next to the diamond. Everyone was drinking beer and they were getting a little abusive about Notre Dame, although I didn't really mind." 
But Banish soon became a groundskeeper, as more beer cans found their way into right field. ''Everyone was dousmg each other with water in the stands and tossing the empty cans on the field. Pretty soon our centerfielder yelled over to me and I turned around to see these guys running toward me on the field with a huge barrel full of water.'' 
Never one to pass up a good time, Bartish proceeded to chase his aqua! assailants into the stands, proudly announcing that he did catch one. "But both benches emptied after that and things kind of ca}med down.'' 
Although isolation from the stands was never given as a reason, Banish moved to short­stop this season upon Pullano'f graduation, where he has dis­played both the offensive and defensive talent he is known for. 
[continued on page 13] 
all kinds of questions with his performance last season for the coaching staff that had watched their front line lose the likes of Ernie Hughes, Steve McDaniel, and Huffman the previous two seasons. 
So 1980 comes along and Scully, back for his fifth year, is chosen as one of the tri-captains and being billed as the next Irish all-America center. 
It sounds like a wonderful story about grooming a thoroughbred for his chance at the roses, but there was never an easy moment for Scully. 
"Early in my freshman and sophomore years,'' recalls Scully, "I thought I had been exiled, more or less, to the prep squad." The prep squad consisted of players used for cannon fodder against the Browners, Frys, Westons and Calhouns. 
Ligaments torn in the right ankle freshman year, more ligaments in the knee during spring practice sophomore season. His career was at a watermark. 
"We really weren't anticipat­ing him coming back and being able to play that fall (Scully's junior campaign) and contri­bute as he did,'' admits Boulac ironically. . The spring had been a good 
one for Scully, but knee surgery 
had him doubting somewhat as 
well. 

"You can never tell from 
person-to-person how the body 
will recuperate," Scully ex­
plains, ''but it was the type of 
(continued on page 14] 



Bookstore Second round winds down 
by Frank LaGrotta Sports Wn.ter 
The ninth annual Bookstore Basketball tournament continued 
to enjoy sunny skies and exciting competition as ·round II wot.nd 
down yeste~dav aft~rnoon. 

In some of the afternoon's featured games, P.F. and the Flyers defeated Five F ... , 21-10. Lou Pagley had four points for the winners who were paced by Mike Morris' seven buckets on 14 attempts. Keith Sherin had four points for the losers. 
In a game that featured some campus celebrities, Irish Guards III defeated the 69ers, 21-16. Bill Stapleton led the Guards with seven points; a total matched by teammate, Jerry Anderson. Student Body President Paul Riehle had three points in 14 attempts while Bookstore Basketball's Commissioner Emeritus, Leo "All World" Latz, managed a paltry two points in ten attempts. · 
Tony Anderson led the Jacksonless Five to a 21-13 win over Demons ... with seven points in 13 attemp~s. Tim ~oegel displayed accuracy and cool under fire as he htt five of hts moe attempts for the J acksonless Five. Coach Tracy Jackson, the team's mentor and namesake, pointed out that he was pleased with his team's performance but, "they'd do better if Tim Tripp wouldn't shoot so much." 
Today's action features a full slate of games including tournament commissioner, Rob Simari's team, Ronald Reagan and ... at 5:30 on Bookstore 9. Head over Heels, featuring Jamie Halpin and his ex-roomate, Tim "Headly" Healy will be in action on Bookstore 9 at 6:15 while OBSERVER Editor in Chief, Paul "Lefty" Mullane):' willl~ad his team (even though he won't allow its name to be pnnted) mto.battle on Lyons court at 6:15. 



