, , , WOW-Page 7 

VOL. XIV No. 102 an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and saint mary's MONDAY, MARCH 10, 1980 
Mock Convention tabs Bush as president, ... 
by john McGrath Senior StaffReporter 
It took four ballots, but the 1980 Notre Dame Republican ~ck Convention ftnally se­lected George Bush as its 

• pre~dential nominee after a marat~o· session Friday night at Ste~n Center. Final -~Hies, announced at approximately 5:30 a.m. gave Bush 671' votes out of 997 participatin~ delegates.Gerald Ford came m second with 197. Other candidates and their ftnal delegate counts are: ] ohnAn­derson, 101; William Simon, 24; and Ronald Reagan, 3. 
A total of 499 votes were needed to gain nomination. Simon, former S~cretary of the 
U.S. Treasury, was the conven­tion's choice as the vice-presi­dential nominee. He picked up 695 delegates during Satur­day's concluding session. Si­mon's candidacy received im­petus after high-ranking memb­bers of the Bush campaign organization threw their sup­port to him. · 
Anderson, the Illinois con­gressman who gained momen­tum on campus following im­pressive showings in the New Hampshire and Vermont pri­maries last week was the early leader with an unofficial 204 delegates after the ftrst ballot­ing. Bush ftnished second in that vote, but emerged as the leader in subsequent tallies. 
His hold on the lead was not overwhelming, however, until the vote amendments started coming in at the close of the fourth balloting. What started out being a Reagan-Anderson­Bush race soon emerged as a Bush-Anderson-Ford struggle, with the former California gov­ernor peaking in the second balloting with 147 votes, then fading badly into obscurity as the mght progressed. 
Ford supporters made their move in the second ballot, picked up 160 votes, and con­tinued to build momentum as the former President took over second place in the third round with 280 delegates, three more than Anderson, and 51 short of Bush's total. 
As the delegates entered the fourth ballot, however, many of the weary politicians began shifting their support to Bush, boosting his tally to an un­official total of 351. At that point, it became clear that the former U.S. Ambassador to the 
U.N. had clear advantage. 
What followed was a caval­cade of individual state vote 
[continued on page 5] 

DelegatP-s whoop it up over the weekendat the Republican Mock Convention which was held at St.1pan Center. [photo by R]D] 
• • .Simon. as vice-presiden_t n_omin.ee 

Cookie Monster by about forty votes after the ftrst rollcall ofSLFopens states. However, when Mock Convention chairman Bill Kresse reminded the delegates that the cookie Monster could


Barth mesmerizes audience 
not run because he was under 35 years old and warned thewas that of the wandering hero, ception of the race to the ovum 
and naturally, its twin: the convention that ''if this ground­
as an allegory to the battle of 
traditional sea journey. life. swell continues Cookie Monster His focus on a single sperma­The author said he was will win,'' delegations began to change their votes. Eventually,
tozoan who ''had his doubts "appalled by the terrible chau­
about Darwinism'' owed less to vinism" contained in the point Simon won by acclamation. 
Simon was nominated by''The Seafarer'' than it did to of view of the story and decided 
Barth's wild flight of artistic members of the Arizona dele­
imagination and absurd per-[continued on page 4] gation, who had nominated the 
by Mark Rust News Editor 

John Barth absorbed a pack­ecf library auditorium audtence with ftfty minutes of readings featuring shrugging spermato­zoans and a literary lover at last night's opening of the Sopho­more Literary Festival. 
The auditorium, which seats approximately 400, could not accomodate the close to 600 people who turned out to hear the noted author and satirist. It appeared as though the crowd overflowed into the library hall­way and stood through the two readings. 
Barth, whose satire is some­times black, generally absurd and always literate, regaled the audience with a 1966 piece whic~ mocked philosophy and procreation, and the opening letter of his current novel Letters, dated 1969 but releas­ed late last year. Barth's genteel east shore Maryland accent reflected both his back­ground~nd his favorite location for many of his novels. 
After revealing to the aud­ience two "important" facts about his background --that he is a frustrated musician and one-half a pair of opposite sex twins --Barth proceeded to explain his impulse to orche­strate and his fascination for things twin by reading the ftrst of twin stories spun on "an old melody line: the myth.'' 
The myth he chose for his spermatozoan conquest story 
by Michael Onufrak presidential nomination Satur­Senior Copy Editor day afternoon on the ftrst ballot. Simon was the choice of 
Former Secretary of the Trea­presidential nominee George sury William E. Simon won Bush. .the 1980 Notre Dame Republi­Simon had trailed Sesame's can Mock Convention's vice Street's popular muppet the 
Dean investigatespossible Econ scam 
by Lynne Daley StaffReporter 
Residents of Dillon Hall purchased a copy of an exam given last Thursday in Economics courses 124 and 224 from the University printer contracted to print it and alledgedly used this to cheat on their exams, according to informed student sources. 
Students in the two sections who went to room 240 O'Shaughnessy to ftnd ou"t their grades encountered a notice which read: "It is alleged that a few students from one residence hall have obtained an unauthorized copy of the March 6 examination. While these allegations are being investigated, all grades from this hall will be withheld.'' 
"I am, at this point, quite certain that it ( the cheating ) is limited to one hall and to a small number of students within that one hall,'' Economics Professor Thomas R. Swartz said when contacted last night. . 
Students whose grades were not posted will not have to re-take the test unless the alleged violations are more widespread than is currently believed. ''Right now I am reasonably certain that it is conftned to a small group," Swartz said. "If we find any evidence to the contrary, my next position would be to disqualify the hall and make those students take the test again.'' 
There is only a slim possibility, according to Swartz, that all students who took the exam would have to take it over. But, "if there is even the slightest hint that it is outside the hall, the whole 1000 students would have to take it over, " Swartz said. 
Although Swartz said that he is reasonably certain that he can identify the students involved, ''I am waiting for them to come forward." 
According to Swartz, he was contacted by a group of students from the dorm in question late Thursday evening and they informed him of the alleged misdealings. Swartz in turn submitted a list of "a handful" of names to Economics department Chairman Charles K. Wilbur and Dean of Students]ames T. Roemer. Wilbur will now convene an honesty committee made up of both students and professors who will hear the case and make recommendations to the office of the dean involved as well as to Swartz. If the Committee juages that there has been a violation of University rules, the convicted student(s) face penalties up to dismissal from the University according to DuLac, a student guide contaimng University rules ND 1regula-· tions. 
Dean ofStudents James T. Roemer refused to comment on the situation last night. "We're in {continued on page 51 
victorious Bush the night be­fore. His nomination was seconded by the Pennsylvania delegation, which had also sec­onded Bush. 
Other candidates nominated for the vice-presidential posi­tion on the Republican ucket included Illinois Governor ] am Thompson, University Presi­dent Fr. Theodore Hesburgh, and most of the other candi­dates who had sought the Republican presidential nomi­nation the night before. 
Simon's road to the nomina­tion started out as a precarious one. Alabama, voting as a block, threw all its su.rport to Freshman Year of Studtes Dean Emil T. Hofman. Simon then picked up a few votes from each of the Alaska, Arizona, and Arkansas delegations. But 
when the largest delega­tion, California, cast all 84 of its votes for the Cookie Monster, the outcome was in doubt. 
After the ftrst roll call the Cookie Monster led Simon by about forty votes. Before another roll call could be taken, however, several delegations requested that they be allowed to change their votes. Included among these delegation was the group from Rhode Island who had originally nominated the Cookie Monster. Rhode Island went mostly for Simon, and after that most other states followed suit. 
Illinois, casting 51 votes for Simon (previously pledged to Thompson) put Simon over the total of 499 votes, ftfty percent of the delegates, needed for nomination. 
No one is sure if Simon, who has not actively sought either his party's preside!Jtia! or vice­presidential nommauon, was mformed of his victory over the weekend. Greg Sullivan, head of the movement to draft Simon for President could not be reach for comment last night. 
~-~ --~---------~--­
News in brief  I Monday ,March 10, 1980-page 2  
Pope suffersfrom influenza , cancels visit to Romeparish VA~CAN CI'I~ (AP) ·Pope John Paul II, suffering what the Vancan descnbed as a mild form of influenza canceled a sch.edu!ed vi.sit yest~rday to a parish church in' rome after delt-..:enng hts noontrme blessing to 25,000 persons. The ponuff was expected to be back at work today, when he is scheduled to concelebrate M~ss on the ~trst anniversary of the death of Frech-born Cardmal Jean Vdlot and to receive Tanzanian President Julius Nyerere. Israeli cabinetgives approval ofShamir 's appointment JERULSALEM (AP) -The Israeli cabinet gave preliminary approval yeste.rday to th~ app~i~tment of Parliament speaker Yitzha.k Shamtr as foretgn mtmster. He is regarded as a hard-lmer. Shamtr, 65, a terrorist leader in Israel's pre-independence period and later a senior officer in Israel's tntell~gence. service, i:; expe~t~d to lend weight to the hawktsh wmg of Pnme Mtmster Menachem Begins's government. Tito 's condition turnsgrave,. translators await tragic day LJUB~NA, Yugoslavia (AP) -The condition of 87-year­old ~!est.dent Jostp Broz Tito, after a week of apparent stabdtzatton:, h~s rurn~d "v~ry grave," his doctors said yesterday. It ts a ternble thtng to have to wait like this " said one of the translators who reads the daily bulletin ~ 0 reporters. '_'We are all very nervous and we do not know when we wtll have to read that tragic bulletin. It could h.appen any day." jury expects to deliberate as Fordfinalizes arguments WINAMA~, .Ind. (A~) -The jury in Ford Motor Co.'s reckless homtctde ~n.al 1~ exp~ct~d to . begin deliberations today, b~t the prestdtng 11;1dge 1sn t rultng out deciding the verdtct htmself. As the mal enters its lOth week, attorneys plan to .pre~ent .final a~guments to the jury today and the Judge wdl gtve hts finalmstructions to the panel after lunch. The jury then will be given the case. Weather Increasing cloudiness Monday with highs in the mid 40s. Colder with a 30 percent chance of snow flurries Monday night and Tuesday. Lows Monday night in the low 20s. Htghs Tuesday in the upper 20s.  European lby j ana Schutt Splashes of color .. the Euro­pean look ... the working woman 10 clothes for every occasion, these were phrases often heard Friday night in the ACC Mono­gram Room. "Deja Vu•", a fashion show sponsored by the 1980 Black Cultural Arts Festi­val, introduced the changing fashions for spring with style and flair. Emcees Joy Lea­pheart and Homer Gooden guided a full-house audience through the maze of new de­signs for the up-to-date dress­er. Ten models culminated long hours of J>ractice in an impress­ively professional perfor•ance as they glided and twirled in fashions for rainy spring nights, playtimes, and business meet­mgs. For the gentlemen, Antonio Amos, Timothy Collins, Kevin Green, Greg Jeffries, and Dar­ryl Williams stepped out in three-piece suits with a Euro­pean cut. Jackets had either two side vents or no vents at all. The lapels were narrow. Trouser legs were slightly flaired, about 19 inches wide at the bottom. Colors for the style-conscious man are refined this year. Greys with beige pinstripes and navy blues are worn for the executive look. Touches of color appeared in maroon and ochre ttes. For the ladies, Rosly Crews, Deborah Jackson, Adrienne Marshall, Toni Walker, and Karen Noakes modeled a vari­ety of styles foe every personal­ity. Skirt lengths were at mid·calf. There were flaired and striaght-A cuts. Crews floated in accordian ple.ated skirts in a variety of colors for play and work. A The Observer. Night Editor: john Smith Asst. Night Editor: ten' Mich­ielutti-"I'm tired" Copy Editor: Lynn Daley Layout Staff: Where are you? News Editor: Margie Brassi/ Editorial Layout: Greg Hed­gesFeatures Layout: Kate Far­rell Sports Layout: Beth Huffman Typists: Beth Huffman, Pau­la Shea, Bill Swift, Mary Beth Bud"' Marily_n Broder­ick and john Smith EMT: Mike Galvin Proofreader: Rick Freedman ND Day Editor: Bob Bernos­k.ie SMC Day Editor: Peggy Schneeman Photographer: RJD GuestAppearances: The Kid Doug Christian, Tom ''key'' Schuster, Ann Monaghan, Margaret Kruse, Patsy Campbell, Mike Ortman, Tim McKeough, where are you john M. & Deirdre? The Obllrwr [USPS -121) II publisiiiCI Mlllldly tllrougll Frtdly 11­cept during tUm IIICI Yalilll ....... The Observer Is pullliallld 11f 1111 students of Nltrt D... _. Slillt Miry's Cll..... Sulllcrlptila lillY Ill Pllrdlned .... $21 per ,.., ($..... ......t~rl 11'11111 The Observer. 1'.0. 1111 O.Narlblllll,llldii1114BI. s-ci ella ':'I. Plkl. ,..,.. Dlllll, I• dlllll . The Observer ·11 1 llllllllllr If 1111 Aalclltld "'-· All ........ rigtlb lrt .-we!.  ook, color spark show purple, lavendar, and red plaid white baggies with multi-color­skirt with purple t-shirt typified ed pinstripes, a red pullover the casuals for spring: bright and red clogs. If you're looking vibrant colors and comfort. A for what's "in", the baggie deep pink two-piece suit would with tight fit at waist and ankle "impress the boss" at any in a variety of hot colors business meeting. including pink, kelly green and Marshall modeled the A-line electric blue is a sure bet for the loolr in a bright red dress of spring wardrobe. polished cotton accented with From the look of th~ fashions, slits. unusual prints and rainbow On the softer color side assortment of accessories are Noakes and Jackson showed on the agenda. The girls sheer dresses in peach and showed blouses with parrots, dream respectively. Elegant designer faces and paint looks for evening, these floating splashes as decoraiton. There creations featured flaired skirts was a wide selection of accent with nipped waists. belts, lapel pins, and plastic A number of skits high­bangle jewelry. lighted the evening. Models The models provided an in­Walker, Jackson, and Noakes side track on joggin~ attire and played hopscotch and jump a preview of the swtmwear for rope as they modeled the new the long-awaited summer. garb for fun in the sun. Shorts Of course, no fashion show were darted and tucked in front would be complete without a and worn with bright 100 % wedding scene. The bride and cotton t-shirts or short sleeved groom, Walker and Jeffries, button down shirts. Amos accompanied by their atten­added the boyish touch with a dants, took a well-deserved bow white, green and yellow base­as the eveing closed. ball suit. The show featured styles The cowboy scene featured from Casual Corner, Century Marshall and Green in the Formalwear, Midwest Athletic latest cowpoke attire. ·she wore Equipment, and J. Riggings. eet ~ Your _c_,Erratum Major ~ Due to a production error in 6·30 0V---­Friday's issue, a line was in_(~ MONomitted from the advertisement for Shear Dimensions. The ~ ~ MARlspecial offer mentioned in that ad is good on Monday, Tuesday, and Wednesday only ~ 2070'Sh through March 31. DUE TO SEVERAL COMPliCATIONS, 
CamP-_us~------~  
4pm READING, john auebach, UBRARY AUDITORIUM. 6:45 pm ROSARY daily at the GROTTO. 8pm READING, david hare, WASHINGTON HALL. 8:00pm PLAY dorothy parker: a one woman play, with d. hawfield. sponsored by women's opportunity week. REGINA AUD. 10:00 pm MEETING students united for responsible energy. BASEMENT OF LA FORTUNE. 11-12:00 pm WSND RADIO "talk it up," call-in talk show. don gerry & theresa rebeck will speak on sexism at nd., with host pat toomey. sponsored by wsnd news. call in lines 6400 or 7425. WSND AM 64.  

. 


The Observer 
Monday, March 10, 1980 -page 3 

The Cookie Monster was edged out for the Vice-Presidential nomina/ton when it was determined hZ:<i platform was crumby. [photo by Chris Barlock] 

Mock Con1.1ention uncovers variety ofstrange delegates 
by john M. McGrath delegates thought Orlando 
Senior StaffReporter "Tree" Woolridge would make 
a ~ood President and threw 
Politics can make strange thetr support behind him in the bedfellows, and although early going. George Bush won this year's And of course, there's the Notre Dame Mock Republican good and the bad in everybody, Convention, with a strong, well and what a better place to let it organized support group, the out than at a convention of event wasn't without its less 1,000 delegates from through­sensible moments. out the nation? For example, 
There are a lot of Billy Joel PopeJohn Paul II picked up the fans on campus, for example, support of two delegates from but how many of them knew New Hampshire, and first man that their idol came in a strong on the moon Neil Armstrong fourth place in Friday night's enjoyed the backing of 38 first ballotting session with 70 delegates. delegates committed to his On the other hand, somewhat election as the next President of less respectable figures such as the United States? Charles Manson, Fidel Castro, 
One of the great t!J.in_gs about_ and mass murderer John Gacy a free society is the"Tta'D'i'ti'cy to""-all had their first ballot 
vote for whoever you want, and after a look at some of the tally sheets from Friday night's marathon session, it is clear th~t Notre Dame ~~dents ce~­tamly are free spmts when 1t comes to selecting _their c~oice. There was a ltttle btt of something for everybody in those lists. Like the T.V. show M• A ·s·H? Somebody at the Convention must have, because Hawkeye Pierce picked up six votes. How many out there are really into freshman chemistry? 
Apparently some really like it because Chemistry Prof. and Dean of the Freshman Year of Studies Emil T. Hofman garnered a respectable 13 votes. Rememher, we're talking President of the U.S.A. here. 
Besides Billy Joel, other entertainment personalities who picked up support ­whether they know it or not -for their presidential campaigns included Tud Nugent, .Joe Walsh. Bo Derek, Peter Raphgel,and with support f~om the New Jersey delegatton, Bruce Springsteen. 
Then there were the sports nuts among the delegates. Seven delegates pledged their support dunn~ the first ballot to 
U.S. Olymptc hockey team coach Herb Brooks. The Minnesota state delegation pledged a vote for each member of the Olympic team from that state. Ftfteen Louisiana supporters. Pauncho Villa even scraped up 11 votes for his campaign. 
There were some conserva­rives out there too, though. Some just like to go with a candidate tha_t they know all about, and who's had the job before. Like those hundreds who voted for Gerald Ford. There were a few who were looking for an even more familiar figure however. Some­one they don't have to kick around anymore. Maybe that explains the nine votes and strong nominating speech that one candidate received. Not Ford, not Reagan, not even Harold Stassen, but, running for an unprecedented third term, Richard Nixon. 
Wom~n start out on the same footing as men in Air Force 
ROTC. Women wear the same msigma and hold the same cadet positions in AFROTC. just as thw do later on as Air
ND Security, St. Joe Police 
Force officers. 

And the sanw AI-'HOTC ><-holarship can he yours as a womcm. If you qudlify. you can havt> your tuition. hook cosb and lab fees paid by the Air Force. and receive $100 a month for other expenses. It helps free you to concentrate on your educatton. And that"s important. 
,. 

investigate stabbingnear A CC 
As an Air Force officer. y9u"ll be expected to use your train ing and education. and be a leader managing people and complex systems. You'll be handed ex~cuttve responsibilitv
Notre Dame Security and the According to Terry, a dispute 
starting with your first joh It's a great way to he ~:.~qual. and a yrt>al WdY to serve yuur
St. Joseph County Police De­occurred during the Bengal 
country. Check into the AFROTC program at your campus 
Be sure to ask about AFROTC scholarships -you may be hoiliJjnq yourself eam an excitinq new lifestyle
partment are investigating a Bouts between Rose and his stabbing that occurred outside assailent. Apparently the the ACC last Thursday night. assailant waited for Rose after 
For more_ LofQrroa_tjoncon CPT 
Walter Rose Jr., 31, of the Bouts and attacked him. 
Davis at 283-6634
Marcellus, Mich., was stabbed The assailant is described as 3 times below the rib cage being about 35 years old, 5' according to Glenn Terry, di­10'', and 185 lbs. He has a rector of ND Security. Rose is mustache, goatee and dark listed in satisfactory condition. afro-style halt. 


HOTC 
Gateway to a great way of life. 


Connallywithdraws after defe~t 
Reagan boasts solid head start after South Carolin.avictory 
COLUMBIA, S.C. (AP) -With captured all 25 delegates the 
his South Carolina primary state will send to the Republi­
victory, Ronald Reagan could can National Convention in 
boast a solid head start yester­July. 
day in the battle for Southern The final, unofficial GOP vote 
Republican support for the was: 
presidency. George Bush Reagan 78,854 votes or 54 
shrugged off his poor showing, percent. 
but John Connally dropped out Connally -43,040, or 30 
of the race. percent. 
''I had been telling you that I Bush-21,458, or 15 percent. 
had been cautiously optimistic,' A handful ofother candidates 
Reagan told reporters after the claimed the remainder of the 
South Carlina outcome was vote. GOP candidate John B. 
clear Saturday night. "Now, Anderson of Illinois, who is 
I'm cautiously ecstatic." concentrating his campaign on 
Late{, after Connally announc­the Middle West, was not on 
ed his withdrawal as a candi­the South Carolina ballot. 
date at a Houston news confer­South Carolina Democrats 
ence, Reagan said it would begin their delegate selection 
make no difference to his process March 15 in precinct 
campaign. With Connally caucuses. 
gone, Reagan stands alone in Jim Ringlein, Reagan's South 
the narrowing Republican field Carolina campaign chief, said 
as the conservative candidate. the victOry gave Reagan "the 
While he refused to endorse momentum to roll through the any<>ther GOP candidate im­South.'' mediately, Connally said the Reagan said he understood former California governor not that a large number of inde­only could win the Republican pendents and Democrats voted nomination easily but could 10 South Carolina, ''crossing beat President Carter in Nov­the line to vote for me. " ember. As for Bush, Reagan said he 
; Bush discounted his third­thought it would be '' a longplace showing in South Caro­reach" for him to regain the 
lina. ''I spent only two and one­momentum provided by his half days and much less mon­upset victory in Iowa. ey'' in the state than did The big loser in South Reagan or Connally, he said. Carolina was Connally, who 
But if South Carolina pro­spent 17 days campaigning in vided any hint of Southern the state with the support of 
sentiment in the GOP race, it Sen. Strom Thurmond, R-S.C, was Reagan who had the and former Gov. James Ed­
strongest reason for optimism wards. 
when voters go to the-polls 
tomorrow in Alabama, Florida 
and Georgia. 
A poll published yesterday in the Miami Herald showed Rea­gan leading Bush, 42 percent, among Florida Republicans. The poll also showed President Carter leading Sen. Edward M. Kennedy by a margin of 66 percent to 13 percent among Democrats in the state. 
The former California gover­nor carried all six South Caroli­na congressional districts' and nally invested heavily in cam­paign money and his personal prestige in hopes of getting his lagging campaign off the ground, he was buried instead by Reagan. 
The former California govern­or won all six of the state's congressional districts and cap­tured all 25 of South Carolina's delegates to the GOP National Convention at Detroit in July. 
Reagan won 54 percent of the vote, compared to 30 percent for Connally and 15 percent for George Bush. 
In Florida, where he was campaigning for tomorrow's GOP primary, Reagan said he did not think Connally's with­drawal would have any effect on his own campaign. 
But with Connally, who was Reagan's major conservative rival for the Republican nomi­nation, fallins by the wayside, former Prestdent Gerald R. Ford was certain to feel heavy new pressure to enter the race in a bid to stop Reagan -his strong but finally unsuccessful O.Pfonen_t fo~ the 1976 presiden­ua nomtnauon. 
Connally refused to endorse any other Republican candi­date, but indicated he might do so after he had talked to his supporters. 
He also told questioners there was no way he would be a candidate for vice president. 
Connally started the campaign with strong financial backing, estimated at more than $10 million as of ] an. 31, but the former treasury secretary's bid for the nomination never caught f1te. 
Connally rejected federal campaign matching funds in favor of private financing. But by the time of the South Carolina primary, he found himself in financial trouble. He had won only one convention dele&ate -from Arkansas ­desptte his efforts in Iowa and an all-out drive in South Caro­lina. 
He said he f1tst had challeng­ed Reagan in the early Florida caucuses and had finished second. 
"We challenged Reagan again in South Carolina and he won. We finished second and, I must admit, not a very close second. Gov. Reagan is still the cham­pion.'' 
WOMEN. YOU'RE EQUAL IN THE AIR FORCE. 

HOUSTON (AP) -John B. Connally, decaring that Ronald Reagan "is still the champion," withdrew from the Republican presidential race yesterday, one day after he was soundly thrashed by Reagan in their first primary battle in the South. 
The former Texas governor, who became a candidate one year ago and spent nearly $10 million in a losing battle, told a news conference that after his disappointing loss to Reagan in the South Carolina primary, it no longer would be "to the good of my party and the nation for me to continue my candi­dacy." 
He told about 700 supporters that from the first he realized it was an uphill battle to win the GOP nomination. Now, he said, "among all my home folks I am withdrwing as a candidate. 
But I am not wtthdrawing from politcs, as I will continued to speak out on all the issues." 
In South Carolina, where Con­

' '1·-'_J";-'.,"·' ..~.:."'_;_)'·.·.::,;_:·_,_:.<.~_ .,i_:,i,:i ~--~":1-,J, }·,····!-' ';) .l' k '{/,1} ,\,¥r) I.}" .') ~i 
'~ 1 •, l c • '\ ~ , ~ '• ) '· ,) '· ~ \ ',:' •,, \, "( t;. I ( ·. l ­
\ 

The Observer 

Monday, March 10, 1980 -page 4 
Hostages release 


Ghotbzadeh criticizes militants 
(AP) -Iranian Foreign Minis­keep the Iranian people inform­criticizing the militants for im­
ter Sadegh Ghotbzadeh last ed of all the details,'' and that posing the conditions, sayingnight gave the militants holding Ghotbzadeh be replaced as the their behavior had been expos­American hosta~es 24 hours to Revolutionary Council's official ed to the nation. make a final decision on wheth­representative in arranging the "It is certain the students do er a U.N. commission will meet transfer. not intend to hand over the with the captives and if they are They added that they were hostages or to let the United to be transferred to government determined to remain inside the Nations commission visit custody. -embassy grounds after the them," Ghotbzadeh said in a 
Ghotbzadeh, speaking after a transfer to reveal more docu­statement reported by thP '1ffi­
Revolutionary council meeting ments from the embassy files. cial Pars news agency. did last night, did not say what Previously they have released not indicate if he meaPr the action would be taken if the documents they allege prove captors merely were draggingdeadline were not met, and he the embassy was a ''den of their feet or never would trans­set no precise time for a spies.'' fer control of the approximately response by the militants. "We are not eager to hand 50 hostages.
He chastised the militants for over the hostages, but since we ''From the Foreign Ministry new conditions they imposed want to prevent any deviation point of view, the behavior of yesterday transferring the ap­and conflict with the authorities the students shows to the greatproximately 50 hostages held m of the country in spite of our Iranian nation the essence of the U.S. Embassy and said a will we are prepared to hand how the problem is," he said. 
decision by the ruling Revolu­them over,'' said one of three Ghotbzadeh also said the tionary Council on arrangments unidentified spokesmen. militants had demanded eight to deal with the hostages would They said the conditions were hours notice of the transfer of be announced before noon to­presented to three senior For­custody and want him to ac­day. eign Ministry officials earlier knowledge that the moment the 
Spokesmen for the militants yesterday in talks at the embas­Americans are in the custody of told reporters at the U.S. sy. authorities ''the receiver is Embassy compound in Tehran Following that meeting, responsible for their lives," 
that they were ''ready at any Ghotbzadeh issued a statement Pars said. minute'' to tarry out their decision to transfer the hos­tages if the conditions were met. 
They demanded the transfer be publicized in advance through broadcasts on the state-run radio network, ''to 
President Ayalafavors 'blOodless solution ' to hostage situation in ~lninican Republic 
BOGOTA, Colombia (AP) ­President ) ulio Cesar Turbay Ayala said yesterday he favors a "bloodless sohition" to the standoff at the Dominican Re­public Embassy where at least two dozen hostages, including 
U.S. Ambassador Diego Asen­cio, .spent their 12th day _in captivity at the hands of leftist guerrillas. 
The president declined to say what steps he would take to achieve a settlement and refus­ed to say if he would meet the guerrillas' key demand -the release of hundreds of alleged political prisoners. 
''I want this situation to be resolved in the best possible way, but this does not depend exclusively on the govern­ment," Turbay Ayala said. "I have the reatest desire that it be a bloodless solution'." 
The president spoke with reporters at a polling' place .i.n Bogota, where he toted ~n municipal and state 'elections contested by a number of regional and national,parties. Turbay Ayala previously urged a heavy turnout to show support for the government and rejec­tion of the embassy takeover. 
In the only election: violence reported, police said • one wo­man was burned slightly when about 10 small bombs: went off along a row of voti~g tables shortly after the polls opened at 8 a.m. 
Interior Minister German Zea Aernandez reacted angrily to a French press report that said the armed forces were prepar­ing to assault the embassy. 
He said the government has 
•orin& Off CamJU Rea SemiRer? 
...,.; Oluok .,..,.,, .....,~.., 

1
1.; MIOBIUA S BBS! ••• and VHd rumit1U'Iand Antlances '!V'S ,stereos, refrf&eruora, chain, sofu, •tables nh of Cam u 81818 u.s. 81 • 
---TiN-ROOF-sUND-AE---~ 
Free With This Coupon And The Purchase I Of$2.00 OrMore~ I 
I
* 
One coupon per student I 

* 
Offergood after 10: 30am I 


I
f .oarde I I 
offe!goodonlyat m~ : ! tMcDonald's ofRoseland ~ I f 52665-U.S.31 North I 
I N 0 1 

!----~------------------------~ 
"pledged the nation'~ word of 
honor that there ~Ill be. no 
measure of force while the lives 
of the hostages are not threat­
ened. These stories distributed 
with sensationalist desi~es can 
be very dangerous dunng the 
current circumstances." 
~oreign Ministry s~u~ces 

satd yesterday that negotiations 
to end the stalemate would 
resume within 48 hours. The 
first three rounds of face-to­
face talks were said to have 
produced little progress. 
On Saturday, American 

Charge d' Affa1tes T. Brett Lehocky said at a briefing: "We have carefully noted the gov­ernment of Colombia's assur­ances that it will avoid the use of force or provocative action unless the lives of the hostages are immediately threatened. 
We see no sign at this point that 
the use of force might be 
required." 
Heavily armed government 

troops maintained their vigil in 
the quiet residential nei~hbor­
hood where the Dommican 
Embassy is located. So, too, 
did hundreds of local and 
foreign journalists. 
The Colombian government has maintained silence on the progress of the negotiations with the M-19 guerrillas, who stormed the embassy during a diplomatic reception Feb. 27 and took Asencio and 13 other ambassadors captive. 
Sources have said the terror­ists are growing impatient with the lack of progress in the negotiations so far and are considering breaking off ta\ks if the government does not re­spond to their demands. 
The government is believed to have offered safe conduct out of the country to the guerrillas in return fot an agreement to release the hostages unharmed. But the government apparent­ly has not i budged from its position that it cannot meet the guerrillas demands for $50 million in ransom or the release of 311 alleged political prison­ers. 

.. . Barth 
[continued (rom Paf!.e 11 

"I've got to do the egg's reply.'' The story pictured the lonely spermatozoan as a bat­tler of the odds in his race to stave off drowning and pursue his sacred goal. While nearly succumbing to his cynical part­ner's philosophical ramblings concerning the possibly mun­dane human umpetus for their flight, the brave spermatozoan passed his fallen brothers and floated to the finish to capture his biological prize. 
"We now know," the author told his audience afterward, ''that that conquest thing was a lot of balderdash. In fact, the spermatozoa float and the ovum fight rather aggressively.'' This, he suggested, unspired the twin ''egg story'' which he did not read to the audience. 
His second reading, a fiction­al letter from Lady Amhearst' s literary passions and sexual proclivities are foreshadowed. 
The letter, addressed to a "Mr. B.," explained both the history ofthe hopelessly absurd "Marshyhope College" and the illiterate politics to its right­wins town, Redman's Neck. In adduion, the letter outlined various love affairs she con­ducted with the great literary talents of her day, a fairly extensive catalogue which ''may even have included James Joyce and Thomas Mann," Barth intimated. 
The festival, which will con­tinue each night this week, has grown into a popular tradition here since its inception 13 years ago. Its unique mix of combin­ing established literary legends and young talents has brought a wide spectrum of writers from Borges to Heller and Kesey. Barth himself appeared at the festival in 1969. 
The festival tomorrow night will feature John Auerbach, a writer in the Jewish tradition, at 4 p.m. and David Hare, the playwrig,ht and author of Teeth andSmiles, at 8 p.m. Auerbach will appear in the Library Auditorium and Hare will speak in Washington Hall. 


' I~": I ,I ~ ; .... ,. .J " • r ,. 1 .. r t, · \ '.1.' I\ f,. I l& I 6 I. I ~~ ' 'I 
.. • • • ,_.__,._,:; •• _.... ~,· .-• '· .' .~¥"~('· -.... ,.,, ......... 
,..• .-,••• d .. .,~~-·~·.,/l,I..Jo.aZ.A.r., _.._r, • ...,.-u'", ~ ~ 
...,.,....,.••~..,""' ._.._..,........_,....., . .,..~<..L..._.t,._._..,...n,-.·D ···...-·a···· • ··«·c•r~,..,•.,....,.,.. •.--,. 
..,.... ~-----.. 

The Observer 

Reagan's success inprimaries may prompt Ford candidacy 
" 

by Tim Vercellotti out that the Ford years were a 
StaffReporter time of quiet. ''Most Ameri­
cans think well of his term in 
Ronald Reagan's success in office. There is a positive 
recent primaries may prompt identification of him, unbur­
former President Gerald Ford dened by negative feelings,'' 
to enter some of the remaining Arnold explained. 
state contests, according to Sterling added that the sky­
Professor Peri Arnold, chair-rocketing inflation rate may 
man .of the Department of play a part in Ford's success at 
Government and International securing the nomination. 
Studies at Notre Dame. "Ford can say that when he 
"Its likely that he's got. to left office, the inflation rate was 
prevent Reagan from wmmng five percent, now it is near 
every/rimary," Arnold said. seventeen percent. Ford may 
Arnol cited the midwestern say that we should go back to 
primaries, those in Michigan, the way things were four years 
Ohio, and Illinois, as being ago," Sterling said. 
important to a Ford effort. One of Ford's stumbling 
As of this date, Reagan pas blocks could be the question of 
won 37 delegates, still far short his capability, according to 
of the 998 needed for the Arnold. "Few Americans think 
Republican nomination. The of him first as captain of a 
deadline for several primaries, troubled ship. He is not terribly 
however, has passed. bright in terms of reasoning 
"He (Ford) may be too late," problems, dealing analytically 
Government professor Carleton with issues,'' Arnold stated. 
Sterling said. "He has to beat The Government department 
Reagan in the primaries; if not, chairman also pointed out that 
Reagan will have eno':lgh.dele::~ in Ford's political career, he 
gates to take the nommauon .. authored little important legis-
Andy Baan, head of the Notre lation as a congressman, and 
Dame College Republicans, even less as the chief executive. 
concurred with Sterling. ''Rea-''People will look back, and ask 
gan's been gettin~ delegates all "What will he give us?" 
along at a ~ood chp. Ford must Arnold said. 
stop him,' Baan commented. Another disadvantage in a 
In the event that the Reagan Ford candidacy may be the 
campaign .slo~s down, a~d damage that it would do to the 
primary vtctones go to hts Republican party. Arnold fore­
opponents, Arnold feels that it sees problems, for example, if 
would be to Ford's advantage to the contest narrows down to a 
maintain a low proftle until the Ford-Anderson confrontaion. 
convention. "I can't help but think that 
Sterling agreed that an incon-battles between brothers are 
elusive first ballot could send the most ugly. This could be 
thenomination toFord. "In the quite a bloody battle," Arnold 
event of a deadlock, Ford would stated. 
get the nomination, due to his Sterling pointe<l out that Ford 
experience," Sterling said. was the one who encouraged 
Sterlin~ pointed out that Ford former U.N. Ambassador 
victory m California would be George Bush to run; conse­
needed to justify a nomination quently, Ford's hat in the ring 
for the former President. ''If could cause]roblems for Bush. 
Reagan wins in the primaries, it ''Ford woul want Bush to step 
would be hard to reject the aside for h~, which Bus_h may 
candidate of the rank and ftle. not do. This may split the 
A nomination would bs:. difficult anti-Reagan vote," Sterling ex­
to legitimize unless FOtd wihs '-tffained. 
in California. To really have a Nationally, Arnold described 
chance, Ford must embarass Ford as the most appealing 
Reagan in Reagao:s home candidate to the _moderate sec­
state,'' Sterling explamed. tor of the Repubh.~an p~rty. H.~ 
Arnold, Sterling, and Baan all called Anderson too hberal; 
cited the former president's and he referred to Bush as 
experience as one of Ford's "unknowable," calling him a 
strong points. Arnold pointed "media creation." 
On Israel 


Mvndale heads efforts 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Vice Council resolution condemning President Walter F. Mondale is Israel's policy of establishing in charge of the Carter admini­Jewish settlements in occupied stration's effort to minimize the Arab tert;itories, including east political damage from the U. S. J enisalell). Administration of­vote in the U. N. Security ficials said the United States Council against Israeli settle­should have abstained as long ments. as the resolution mentioned 
President Carter's political Jerusalem, which Israel annex­forces are braced for a wave of ed after the 1967 Middle East criticism over the way the war. administration handled the set· dements issue. But, says one high-ranking member of the vice president's staff, it has not hit yet. 
, , . &am 
That may change when Moo­dale visits New York Wednes· day for a meetin~ with repre­[continued from page 1] sentatives of J ewtsh groups. 
the investigative process rightCarter is known to understand now. We should have morethat his administration's errors definite information in three orin voting for the controversial four days," he stated. 
U. N. resolution will have Swartz expressed regret atadverse political consequences. 
the incident. "It's really unfor­The controversy began last tunate and out of tune withweek wh~n Carter acknowledg· what we are about as a Univer·ed"that faulty communications sity. It breaks my heart,~ the United States to vote 
l;> .._tatlse my}._;:~:!~;!!":: tied,'' he
Mtt~h 1 in favor of a Ser'-'-~, sa1u. 
Monday, March 10, 1980 -page 5 

David Hare, who wrote "Teeth and Smiles" [Pictured above as it was performed this weekend], will speak tonight in the Memorial Library. fphoto by JUDJ 
• • .Mock Olnvention. 
[continued from page lJ Simon. In what was seen as a move Prior to the nomination and detrimental to}ohn Anderson's 
changes and moves to block­voting on candidates Friday chances of winning, a majorityvoting in favor of Bush. The night, the Convention wrangled oCV,t.e delegates voiced theirbreakthrough came at approxi­for several hours over domestic opposition to the imposition of amately 4:30 a.m. as Ohio and affairs planks of the party 50 cent gasoline tax ·· anCalifornia, with their respective platform. Major changes of Anderson proposal ·· and theBush votes of 38 and 84, put the note were made in the areas of clause was struck from theformer Director of the Central civil liberties and energy. platform.
Intelligence Agency over the 
The original wording of the
top in t~rms of delegates need­Convention officials were
platform had included a clause
ed to wm. generally pleased with the out·
which suggested that abortion
Numerous other state dele~a­come of t.Q.e three-day event.
would be acceptable "in cases
tions, seeing the handwritmg where the mother's life id ''While \things were sort of on•the wall, soon began jump­endangered or where the rough Thursday night, Fridaying on the bandwagon, shifting and Saturday went much bet­
mother is the victim of rape."
their votes over to Bush. He Under pressure from the floor, ter,'' commented John Dillane, was finally declared winner at 
the plank's position on abortion a member of the Convention's approximately 5:30a.m. was changed to a complete Central Coinmittee. "I think 
11 ''There was a great deal of prohibition on abortion except the Convention, gave peopletalk about the draft Ford move­where absolutely necessary to excellent insight 'into the Amer­
ment because of some feeling save the life of the mother. ican political process, and hope­nationwide that Bush is just an A rider was also added which fully that experience will makeexpediant alternative to Gerald would encourage any successful the events in Detroit and NewFord," observed Bush Campus Republican nominee to appoint York (sites of the RepublicanCampaign Co-chairman Jim wherevet possible, Supreme and Democratic national con­King. "However, I think this Coun } ustices favorable to the ventions, respectively} thisConvention has proved beyond pro-life position. summer much more compre­a doubt that George Bush is not A clause supporting the hensible. ' ' in any way a stalking horse for 
Equal Rights Aniendment was
Gerald Ford, and that he is a 
struck from the platform, and
strong le~itimate candidate in 
replaced by a weaker stance
his own rtght.'' 
advocating legislative action to 
ROCCOSConsidering they did very little 
promote women's rights. This
cam~aigning before the con­
action was taken after pressure 
ventton, the ford supporters 
men's and women's
from the floor made it clear that 
were pleased with the outcome. 
many delegates were worried
According to Bill Roche, 

hairstyling

about ERA's pro-abortion back­
spokesperson for the delegates, ers.''Ford said if he had a broad­

at comfortable prices
The Convention amended its
based support, he would run. 
stance on nuclear power, taking 
This is an indication of the 

531 N. Michigan 

a more favorable position on its 
suppon he is lookins for." 
use and development than had
One of the surprtses of the 

233-4957

been originally advocated in the 
evening was the quick descent platform.
of Ronald Reagan as a serious 
' 
contender. He was the last 
candidate to be nominated --by the state ofUtah at 12';23 a.m. 

BREAKTIME 
-· and at that time, it appeared that Reagan had substantial suppon, judging by the amount 
DIRECT O'HARE. 
of fanfare which accompanied 
his introduction to the conven­
tion. 
$15 EXPRESS $15
Reagan supporters held up proceedings for approximately 10 minutes by marching in front 
from NOTRE DAME CIRCLE
of the podium with banners and 
posters, shouting all the while 
their candidate's name. The 
depan 4pm arrive 5:30pm
March27
Reagan threat apparently was a 
paper tiger, however, as the 

lOam 11:30am
March28

former California governor's chances lost all credibility by 

lpm 2:30pm 
die end of the third ballot. · In addition to Bush, Ford, 
~------~FIRSTBANKTRAVEL
Anderson, and Reagan, seven other candidates were officially 
Badin Hall nominated, including former Minnesota Gov. Harold Stas­sen, Illinois Congl"essman 283-7~·90 Philip Crane, former Texas Gov. John Connally, and 
Editorials 
Monday, March 10, 1980 -page 6 
As itis 
Was The Mock Schlock? 
''Mista, when you ain't got 
no education, you gotta use yer 
brains." 
punch line to joke: Dr. George 
Crane 

ND Mock Convention: 1980 
In the beginning, there was politics. And the Lord, feeling the need to enlighten youth about the nefarious proceedings constituting adult politics, decided to use His vast powers to create a process to educate the young. 
The Lord saideth: "Let there be Mock.'' 
Now the serpent was the most wily of Democrats. He whispered into the ear of Adam and Eve, the original First Family, saying ''Did the Lord really say Mock? Verily I sayeth unto thee, it is not Mock but Schlock that will earn thee 
Eternal Life in the Congres­sional Kingdom.'' 
Now the Lord (being an Andersonian Republican) was sore displeased when He heard of the serpent's perfidy. Wanting very much to retain a majority rule in both future houses, the Lord expelled both the serpent and the original First ~amily from further 
convenuons. 
And the Lord was sad, uttering mournfully while gnashing His glistening teeth: ''Truly what a fool I am, having created the Mock so that humans will know better the nuances of political process, politics being the fair and just distribution of pain and power. Since the serpent has done this, and the Ftrst Family was undemocratically led astray, I must wait -alone -until I deign another family worthy to insti­tute the Mock.'' 
And so the Lord waited, being a patient Lord, for almost 7000 years. 
Then a ~;>rophet rose up amidst the Clviltzed decay and corruption of the 20th century in a far distant land known as South Bend, Indiana. Being of a supernaturally virile breed of Re~;>ublica1 s,F'r. Ted Hesburgh fruttfully propagated the kind of family the Lord had long awaited: the duLac Flock. 
Pure, childlike, faithful Mass goers and officious to an embarrassing degree, the du Lac Flock was sired to assuage the Lord's millenia! melan­choly. Having lost the original primacy, the Lord was cautious m allowing humans another chsu,ce to learn of Mock. 
I ... t the Lord is no callous J.ord.but forgiving and ironic. .duowing Hts caution to the stars, he redeemed mankind's political process by granting Mock to the du Lac Flock. 
Seeing the inventiveness and diligence of His newfound Flock, the Lord's mirth over­flowed as Mock after Mock served the ~;>urrse of the Lord's origtna intent: educating the young about the politics of the old. 
But the 1980 Mock distressed 
Christopher Stewart 
even the Lord's sublime omni­potence, there being such bizarre twists and turns that 
even the Lord is hard pressed to explain. In an interview last evening, the Lord had this to say. 
"Greetings, earthlings. The recent 1980 Mock held at Mt. Stepan is a glorious example of my abiding love for you. But your treatment of the proceedings, platform, amend­ments and nomination some­times make me wonder about your love for me, the maker of Mock." 
"For example, prophet Ted's informal invocation was cute, especially when he asked that I bless all the delegates so that one day they might all become politicians. As if we needed any more." 
''Then there was that linguist, uh, Guvnar Atis Bawen frum Indianer. What's this stuff about the 'Saaaviettte tret?' Everyone in the New York delegatton misunderstood him; they thought he meant the '(Yugo)Siaviette tret.' I know Tiro's health is bad, but that's no reason to attribute military superiority to a nation whose leader has only one leg. 
Jumping Jehosephat! Next time, tell the steering committee to watch those accents. Otherwise, be sure to invite Noam Chomsky to trans­late.'' 
''And· fer cry in' out loud, who invited those birds Hyde and Crane? Being loquacious is one thing, but suffering from a terminal case of diarrhea of the mouth is another. Both were demagogic losers.'' 
''And holy cow, that kid Sullivan from the rebel state of Georgia -one of the best amendments in Mock history. And it takes you over two hours to strike the Neutron Bomb. And then you leave in. the MX, while totally ignoring debate on the draft and registration. Incredible! One thing I'm convinced of at this point is the serious dearth of cold-blooded, life-loving, peace mongering pacifists in the Republican Party." 
"Geez, only one question for 
Stassen? And he travelled so far for a sniff of the ACC. '' 
''And that insidious Christian Amendment from that Italian weirdo Fredo Lambourghini in the Pennsylvania delegation. To offset Hyde, he wants to 
administration of either 
institute mandatory abortion immediately to head off a Malthusian disaster. Plus he supported an ethnic Frank Rizzo-] ohn Paul II ticket. Talk about blasphemy! How dare they ridicule the great mayor of Philadelphia.'' "Being God .and all, I naturally am against abortion. But I was appalled at the decision to reverse the plat­form's stand prohibiting abortion in the case of rape. The funny thing is that My Son felt the greatest compassion for sinners of the flesh. That · included victims of sins against the flesh as well, my dear Flock.'' "Those Hot Eggs Boys (the Hebbies) from Kansas wer"' 
funnier than he--, er, J.lh, 
purgatory. Plus, I loved the 'we 
want milk' and 'eat a cow' 
chants when the Connally chair­
man spoke. At least I 
remembered what the chant 
meant, even if all New Jersey 
and Illinois looked baffled when 
it was being shouted.'' 

'Hey, really loved that New York Favorite Son ticket of Billy Joel (President), Chuck Mangione (Veep), and Neil Young for Secretary of State of the Mind. I'm sort of a rock freak myself these days. Hate disco.'' 
''Despite the fact that Fr. Shea practically snored everyone into comatosity Friday night, I was vaguely perturbed by the anarchist rumblings from those libertine delegations of Massachusetts and California. Forming a radical insurgency group hke TNT (The Neo Ter­rorists) to storm the dais at 9 pm, take hostages and out­rageously demand that Fr. Shea either shut up or leave the convention violated my heavenly ordained 'Robert's 
Rules of Order'. Fortunately 
his talk ended before 9 pm.'' 
''Overall, I was pleased. But heed my warning: the 1980 Mock was precariously close to being the serpent's Schlock." 
Try to keep the political spirit alive in the future, so upcoming Mocks may be more represen­tative of your Maker of Mock. Mockingly Yours, The Lord." 
He added one final after-,. thought, regarding the nomi­nation of Bush and Simon. 
"If the U.S. of A. goes "To The Mountains" with Bush in November, pack lightly and keep it Simple, Simon." 
P. 0. Box Q 
Abortion and rape 
Dear Editor: 

This letter is in resli'onse to Katherine Catanzarite s .letter in which she, .in sympathy for women made pregnant through rape or incest, supports free· dom of decision concerning abortion for such victims. 
Ms. Catanzarite categorizes complete condemnation of a­botttcide under the realm of ''a grimly oppressive, rigid, and unredeemed Christianity.'' In myopinion, this i~ a self-right· eous way of saying that life should be easy. 
Is it unfair· that an innocent victim of tape or incest must suffer through carrying an un· wanted baby to term because of her attacker? Yes, I guess it is unfair; but what does our ju<i~ment of fairness justify? Did Christ say that life would always be fair to us? Or did he tell. us that we must walk 
und.emanded miles at the hands 
of persecutors? If that is too 
hard. t~. really sc:e as eractical, 
how 1S tt more fatt to kill a baby 
who does not even know what is 
going on? A baby is not an 
ertor to erase; a child is never a 
wrong. The trauma involved is 
unfortunate and horrible, but 
killing is not the way out. 

Concerning the effect carry­
ing the baby to term may have 
on the mother, I do not see the 
advantages, beyond stifling so­
cial embarrassment, of termi­
nating the pregnancy. Abortion 
can physically and emotionally 
damage a woman. The memory 
of the act of rape or incest will 
not be erased; there is grave 
possibility of the memory of the 
aborticide contributing ro the 
problem. 

Perhaps Ms. Catanzarite would label me as a '.haven of gentleness'' and ,POint out that I have never been m the situation so cannot be truly compassion­ate. But would being there make it any less wrong to kill? I cannot believe that it would; it would be easier to see as a way out,. but it would be just as wrong. Iflwere faced with the situauon ... no, I cannot say that l Uf(j;yt'batJ would do. I do 
· . . however, what is ri~ht. f dO CQndemn direct abortictde of 
· ·· :viable fetus under ~y 
. lfl were in tmlt ·. 
cay that I would 
~~~~''· 
' · 
have the courage and strength to do what is right. . 
You said, Ms. Catanzarite, that your God does not agree with this. 1 do not know, then, who your god is. 
Marie B. Caulfield 
On shuttle service 
Dear Editor: 
I am writing in response to a 
letter written by Ms. Peg 
B<;~eheim concerning the Shuttle 
Bus Service between Saint 
Mary's and Notre Dame. 
The shuttle bus is a very 
frustrating experience for me 
also. An energetic attempt was 
made this year to insure the 
maximum convenience for Stu· 
dents riding the shuttle. Unfor· 
runately, the service has once 
a~ain become a great inconve­
mence; this i$ partly the fault of 
the bus drivers and partly the 
fault of the students. 
A simple and logjcal schedule 
was devtsed at the beginning of 
this academic year. On paper, 
the shuttle schedule is very 
consistent but the bus drivers 
have neglected to follow this 
schedule with any semblance of 
regularity_ 
Also at the beginning of t.fiis academic year, every student at Saint Mary's was provided with a shuttle schedule. Schedules were posted at aU stops where possible, on both campuses and these have been repeatedly ripped down. 
Most importantly, the regis­trars of both the College and the University have been in­formed to notify students that back to back classes on the opposite campuses can not be taken unless the student in­tends to provide herI his own transportation or to take re­sponsibility for her/his tardi­ness. It is physically impossible for the shuttles to make the campus routes in the 15 min­utes allotted for class exchan~e. 
The shuttle does provtde transportation to every class if the student has sufficient time beforehand. ThiS has been a problem for many students. However, this fact has always been clearly statedbythe Ad­ministration, • 
. M.E. M.tucio SaiJtMAry's Co-exf'hat~ge
1 Commissio~H~r 
/Nit.. I 1»/NO. I HAVEN'THIIJJA CHANCE 7D 
R£AI) rr YE:r. 
i~stitution. 

Editorial Board and Department Managers 
The news is reponed as accuratdy and as oiJjectively as possible. Editorials Edztor-in-chief ....... .Rosemary Mills Sports Editor .................. Mark Perry r~resent the opimon of a majority of Managing Editor....... ... Diane Wilson Features Editor .... .Kathleen Connelly 
&x Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 the Editorial Board. Commentaries, Editonal Editor .............. Ann Gales Photo Editor .............. Doug' Christian 
opinions and letters are the views of Senior Copy Editor.........M. Onufrak The Observer is an independent rheir authors. Column space is avail­Executive News Editor ...... Mike Lewis Business Manager........Steve·Odland U'-vspaper pubJishrd by the StUdentS able to all members of the-community, News Editor .................... Mark Rust Production Manager .... , John McGrath 
)~~e ()bserver_ 
ofthe U:-~t.•c-r-;ity of Notre Dame du lac and the free ·expression of varying News Editor ................. Mike Shields Advertising Manager ..... M, Holsingerand Sair". ~ -.,,, • .,._. I: dO"'s not .:-pinions on c~pus, through letters, is SMC News Editor ........ Margie Brassil Cf!ntroll~r................. .Kevan ·'ManiOn _.,sarily retlect the }-vlj~1 ·s of ::he encouraged. r'~ Czrculatwn Manager .. ....Greg lkdges 
~ • .. 1,_ .. • ' • ..... ..... ..• .... ­
---~------------~~----------------------------~·--· 
Features Monday, March 10, 1980 ~page 7  
Fr. Bill Toohey The Folly of Christianity "Perhaps the chief effect of the Christian thing to do, but the virrue that it appears to be to those who organized church has been to inocu­by which one finds sound reasons for judge such deed with the wisdom of the ways of power.late a great mass of people with evading the Christian thing to do." such a mild dose of Christianity as to Jesus' teaching on violence, wealth Ofcourse, those who have followed make them immune to the real and power provides three classic Jesus down through the centuries Dorothy Day, Thomas Merton, Mar­thing." · instances of this phenomenon. No hav~ always been wtlling to be just as tin Luther King, JohnXXIII, Paul VI-P. Barton student of the New Testament, with foohsh. Thus in his novel Saint or John Paul II who said during his · even a modest grasp of what biblical Francis, Kazantzakis has his' hero visit to America: "Do not kill. Do notThe least surprising thing of aU, in scholarship reveals, can retain any say: "You said that whoever dwells prepare men for destruction andthe current debate about the draft doubt about the revolutionary nature among wolves must be a wolf and extermination."). but it is soonand war, is the number of people who of these teachings of Jesus. They not a lamb. That's what you said drowned out by the saber rattling offind the Christian position absurd. completely overturn out conventional Brother Leo; that's what all sensibl~ good old American cowboys: politi­It should be absolutely no surprise wisdom, the way "realistic men of people say. But God presented me cians who salivate over weaponto anyone that those who support the the world operate"; and fully qualify with a madness, a r'!w madness· and buildup, editorialists who brand asGospel ofJesus Christ are accused of for labels of "sheer folly" and I say that whoever dwells ~ong cowards young men who are not"sheer folly" and "patent non­''patent nonsense." wolves must be a lamb--even if like Jesus, they kill him." ' anxious to turn over their lives to thesense.'' This is totally consistent It is, for example, unanimously Pentagon, clerics for whom Geor~ewith the response Chnstianity has agreed by reputable scholars that The nonviolent teaching of Jesus Patton is second only to the Virgmalways received. Jesus totally rejected violence, and doesn't mean non-resistance or non­Mary in their pantheon of saints.The truly tragic thing is to fail to that, as a result, there can be protest or non-defense. As a matter One is forced to make a decisionrecognize the difference between absolutely no justification for vio­of fact, history records amazing about all of this. Frankly, some of usChristian teaching and Christian lence on New Testament grounds. It conversions and transformations of would rather follow the Gospel ofpractice, the divergence between the is also important to realize, however, people effected through this strange Jesus Christ than that of HenryChristian position as taught by Jesus that a large segment of the Christian power of powerlessness. Still, it has Kissinger and the Joint Chiefs.and the way the Christian community community has rejected Jesus' posi­seemed so terribly impractical and Those of us who say this, however,has acrually implemented it. It is a tion on this subject, rejected 1t as outlandish that it has been discarded should hasten to add that we are notplain fact of history that the Chris­impractical since Constantine, that by legions of "realists" who would at all sure we CAN follow Histian community frequently has reject­is, ever since the Christian commun­rather put their trust in weapons than teaching; for it is radical, it ised the the clear teachings of Jesus. ity grew large enough to think of in God, in war theories rather that in hard--especially for those of us whoChurchmen, for example, employing violence as a practical option. the commandment ''Thou shalt not know we have a lot of violence within a pragmatic brand of prudence, have The pacifism of Jesus an embar­kill.'' There has been a substitution that ,can be healed only by the powerfor centuries devised various theories rassment to much of the Christian of new values for the foolish ones of of God's grace. for watering down the Gospel. community--this "pansy" who spews of the New Testament: Power is now In the end, all of us fin<! ourselves"There can be no doubt," biblical forth nonsense about rurning the measured in megatons; Peace refers conftonted with a question that willscholar John McKenzie writes, "that other cheek, who talks about loving to the cessation of hostilities; Free­not go away:the Christian community has often enemies. Some of us may look back dom is the right to live selfishly; and • "Suppose you were on trial forrecoiled from the costs of the at His free offering of Himself Strength means w.eapon superiority. being a Christian; do you believe they Christian moral choice.. Christian through the lily fragrance of Easter, Occasionally, a lonely voice will would find enough evidence to con­prudence has long been, not the so perhaps it doesn't strike us as the reiterate the teachings of Jesus (a vict you?" virrue by which one discerns the impractical, silly naive, senseless act Women 's Opportunity Week •WOW: Look WhtJ~~&~'  

has been·· 

· Depattm~nt for .,th~··•. productions, A Delicate suppn ring ~ctress'' ?Y the; .· 
Hawfiefd s taste tn theatre Hawfield feels, however, that comedy which is constantly· served good material which is rarely seen, hysterical twitterings and a good sotll.;ctea:nsu 
DIANANYAD 
The courage to succeed has been an tllS·Plt'aUiotf 16 was stricken with endocarditis, a lost her edge for a berth on the 1%8 encouragement of the director of the Nattio•nal Elil marathon swiml_Iling:. breaking th 10 mile· ftrst coltntl•etittio•Ii 
M.arat~on sw1mmm~ takes a spec~al Jt!.!'Jd · ·~~~; :i•:~: :avi\>r!'l;ii, sesston mdu~es 12 f?tles a day, s~~~m\l; SPrints for\2 marathon swtmmer htts the water, s1~~Heels o~tv the · · the stings of the jellyfish, ~ • r}l,t ~ ~re '• e bOn~... 
Why would anyone "·ant .., her . to ~~ At 28, Diana Nyad is lot r. "' "'l a wo~ .:1 champio Phi Bena K<•P2~ from 1 .ke F<. .... ..~ileac; ..~ dQC:tO':':.~.l "'~1~.,;uw University and the author of the RanB6rn House · · • 
Shores. · · 

• 
The Observer -Sports Monday, March 10, 1980 ~page 8 
Sports Briefs._________ 
Women tracksters upset Manchester 
The Notre Dame Women's Track Club pulled a major upset on friday afternoon, topping the defending Indiana State Champions and three-year undefeated team from Manchester College. The score at the end of all events was locked at 86-86, according to AIAW rules the team with the most first place wins takes the meet, again the clubs were knotted. The next deciding factor was the number of second place finishes, wher;e Notre Dame held a 5-4 advantage, giving the Irish a major upset. Annete lson won the ~ile run at 5:36.86, Anne Rice took the 600-yard run at 1:37.74, the 100-yard run went to Barbara Jacobs at 2:56.46 and Kathy Meara set a school record in the two-mile at 11:45.31 for the of the five Irish first places. The final Notre Dame win came in the mile-relay with Mary O'Conner, Bernie Bollas, Mary Rice and Jacobs turning in a 4:26.75. The women next compete April 8 in an outdoor meet at Manchester. 
Wayne State defeats Irish fencers 
The fencing team was again defeated by Wayne State, this time at the Great Lakes Championships held Saturday at the University of Illinois-Chicago Circle. Wayne State topped the 
Maggie "The Doctor" Lally, a 5-0 guard for the Irish, goes up for two against Spn·ng 
Arbor. [photo by Tim McKeogh]. . Andy Bonk took the foil division for the Notre Dame team while Marc de]ohn finished fourth. In the sabre Chris Lyons finished second, losing in a fence-off to Wayne's Neil Hick. Rich Daly fell to another Wayne competitor, Gil Pezza, in the epee. The Irish women lost to Wayne by nine points, paced by Dodee Carney's third and Ltz Bathon's fourth place 
Irish by just four points, 122-118 in the men's competition. 
... Wonten 

finishes. Sharon Moore of St. Mary's ended up in fifth place. The Irish women qualified for the NIWF A (National Intercollegiate Women's Fencing Association) champion­
in my mind that we will be College of Illinois, the Irish lost
[continued/rom page 12]

ships to be held at Ohio State University in Columbus the last competitive, not just in this to Adrian College of Michiganweekend of March. The men fencers travel to Penn State this tournament, but all throughout 73-59 on Friday, and thenweekend to compete in the NCAA championships. 
"We're in the middle of a that buildin~ process. ' ' dropped a close one to Spring
change here (at Notre Dame)," For the Insh, the loss comes Arbor College of Michigan in she added, ''a change which is on the heels of a somewhat Saturday's consolation game,both exciting and unpredict­disappointing weekend at the 61-56. . able. This can only help a AIW A region five tournament Notre Dame led Friday's
Chemistry dept. sets deadline 
program like ours, which will at Taylor University. After game against Adrian by two at 
JUSt keep building, especially in Thursday night's upset win halftime, and still led by a point 
recruiting, and there's no doubt over second seeded Greenville with 14:13 remaining, before a
for summer research applicants 
28-8 spurt by the Bulldogs put 

the Mtchigan school up by 19, The deadline for undergraduate direct the independent research 61-42 with 5:24 left. Adrian srudents ro apply for participa-projects, according to the pro­then coasted to their 21st win of tilln in a Notre Dame summer gram's director, Dr. Maurice E. the season.
... . Bengals 
program in which 10 selected Schwartz, who noted that facui­Saturday's consolation game SIUdents will do individual ty advisors would play a less between the Irish and Spring ,hc:rnical research projects un-important role as the student round to gain the unanimous Arbor was close throughout,
[continued from page 12j

dc:r the supet vision of Notre d~velops expenis~· . decision. Spring Arbor's biggest lead Dame faculty is ApriJ.I. Jhe.-s,hwartz also said a van~ty of 162 POUNDS--In a near HEAVYWEIGHT--A pair of being six points, and Notre program is open to students research pro~lems _are availab_l~ brawl of a exhibition match the second year fighters, both one­Dame's biggest margin being frllm th'ruughout the United to students, mclud!ng tho~e m bearded Tony Conese was gran­time runners up in the heavy­four. Srates. areas ~uch as bw~hemtst~y, ted a unanimous decision over weight division, capped· off the With the score standing at 
Srudents will receive a $1,000 morgantc. and org~ntc ch~~Is­sophomore Steve Re:O at 162 afternoon of boxmg. Sean 58-56 in favor of Spring Arbor, sr 1pc:nd for 10-week projc=ct try, c~emtcal ph>:Sics, radiatt?n pounds. Cortese delivered a McCormick, a one-punch fight­and less than a minute remain­whi,h involves a pre-summer chem_Istry, che_mical synthests, powerful right, left combination er, collected that all-important ing, the Irish missed four shots intmduction through readings kmetlc_ analy~Is and organo­to the face of the lanky Reo blow twice, sending Pat Boggs, which could have tied the and library work, the research m,etaliic ch~mistry. . causing the referee to call a a stylish fighter, to the canvas game. Petro's squad was then 1rsc:lf, weekly research semi-. Students Interested 1~ apply­standinJ!'. eight count for the once in the second and once in forced to foul, and the Cougars nars, a wrirten final research mg for the program, whtch runs staggermg boxer prior to the the third round for standing built their final five point rq>orr, and the possibility of from] une 2 through August 8, end of the second round. eight counts. victory margin. cunrinuing research at the stud· i'J80, should contact .Schwan~. Conese, a four year veteran of Th~ McCormick win topped Freshman Shari Matvey, who e-m's home institution after the Dep~rtment of Chemtstry, Um­the Bouts maintained control in an afternoon of pure enjoyment will finish the year with the projecr·~ formal end. verstty of Notre Dame, N~tte the fmal round to caprure the in the boxing world, interrupted individual single season scoring 
Fourteen members of Notre Dame, Ind., 46556, or by callmg tide. just a few times with tears, record, added 14 and 12 points 
Dame's chemistry faculty will wllect at (219) 283-7744. 
..--·SMC ORIENTATION 'd___ 
Applications are now being accepted for: 
• 
Assistant Chairman • Social Chairman 

• 
Publicity Chairman • Off-Campus Chairman 

• 
Tours Chairman • Transfer Chairman 

• 
Big Sistertuttle Sister Chairman • General Committu 


a...pt· . ., bl . h S d A~ • • • Offi Worker 
,.., 1cattons ava1 a em t e tu ent f"'LtiVItles 1ce 166leMans Deadline• Tuesday March 18,1980 lications will not be acce ted after this date. 
WOMEN'S OPPORTUNITY WEEK "DOROTHY PARKER: AONE WOMAN PlAY" MONDAY REGINA 
Bpm
MARCH 10 AUDITORIUM 

165 POUNDS--The upset of embraces, and television time­to her total, to lead Notre the night came when Dan ''The outs. Dame scorers in both contests. Destroyer'' Flynn conquered Jim Devine, a four-year veteran with a 1978 win in the 162 
weight division. Flynn, yet WSND Boardannounces 
another Dillon boxer, tallied the split decision with his aggres­
1980-81 department heads
sive style and wild tags. 

170 POUNDS--Two off-cam­pus students, Mike Budd and The current WSND Executive department heads. Kevin Mike Pullano, both with rela­Board announced Thursday the Gessler, a junior, now function­tively the same fluid sryle selection of the 1980-1981 ing as Co-Program Director of 

clashed in the 170 pound divi­the FM fine arts station wiJl sion. Budd, a senior and assume duties as the Station 
varsity cheerleader was award­Manager.ed the championship on a split Also selected were Chief decision over Pullano, a junior. Engineer]ohn Garino, a sopho­The third round proved the more, and Sports Director deciding factor in the match as "Wild" Bill Dempsey, also a Budd erupted from his corner sophomore. Junior Mike with aggressive and vicious Tanner, Sophomore Tom blows to stagger Pullano. · Nessinger, and Junior Matt 
175 POUNDS--Two young Bedics will all be returning to Morrissey residents battled in head the AM "Rock Tower,"the 175 pound division with -· Production Department,
sophomore Mike Burke topping _ FH operations, respec­Jim Burelbach. The match, a dy.laid-back period after the Budd­The 1980-1981 Executive Pullano (?unch hurling, climax­Board will begin operating fol­ed when Burke scored un­lowing spring break. answered strikes in the final 

The Observer -Sports Monday, March 10, 1980 -page 9 
For Irish 
·NCAA crown: unrealized drerun 
LINCOLN, Neb--It's probably true that most of the players and coaches invited to the NC:AA basketball tournament don't really believe ~hey are going to win it. : 
"Well, we think maybe we might be able to .. . " they humbly t_ell the press. : 
"Hey, we can do it!" they privately tell each other, trying to inspire the guy at the next locker. 
J 

But realistically they know the odds against winning it are astronomical . a lot sreater than the mathematical one-out-of-48, whtch is h<i>w it all looks on paper. One bad call, one missed: free throw, one forced shot, one less point and it's over. You go home early like you figured you would all along. 
So you dream. You dream about what it would be like in the locker room on that ma;gical March Monday night with all the yelling and screaming and hugging your teammates! and coaches and family and friends... · 
And about the ring. The symbol of supremacy that John Wooden has 10 of but most people never even get to try on. ButJou might g¢t one and wouldn't that be great an you'd nevet take it off because it means that at least once in your life you were the best. 
Ah, dream on.... : 
1 

More than likely you'll wake up to the nightmare that was Notre Dame's locker :room after Saturday's shocking 87-841oss to Mis~ouri. 
It came out of no where, like the car you ;don't see until the accident at the intersection. ; And like the victims of the mishap that could;. have been avoided, you sit and wonder like Kelly Tripucka. Or sigh like Digger Phelps. Or get angry like Orlando Woolridge. Or cry likte Bill Hanzlik. 1 
Or ask questions like the hundreds of sportswriters and fans who witnessed the lupset of favored Notre Dame by mediocre Mis~uri. · How? Why? What happened? Whatf wer. ' wrong? 
r 1 

Before the game Digger told his team that · Missouri would try to beat them on guts b~cause 
1 

{continued from page 12] 
' 'Notre Dame is a very good 
basketball team and I have nothing but respect for the institution,'' Stewart said. ''What I was referring to was that the Big Eight didn't get a bye in the tournament, and we felt we were entitled to one. If not us, then maybe Kansas State. But I feel some of that is done by the old mystique process." 
"I think that helped us today. Our players responded to that challenge, and said that it was really going to be decided between the lines." 
Missouri forward Mark Ores­ler, who scored a game-high 32 points, including 24 in a perfect shooting second half (8-8 from the field 4-4 from the charity stripe), echoed his coach's com­ments. 
"We realized before the game that they had received a lot of national exposure," comment ed Dressler, "but they are not much different from any other team. We just had to go out and play our game and act like we were playing a normal team " 
Aft~r Notre Dame grabbed a 42-36 halftime lead behind some strong offensive rebound-in~ and 16 points by Kelly Trtpucka, the Tigers went to work with their patient offense that should set an NCAA record for team field foal percentage at the end o the season. Mizzou outscored the Irish 12-6 to start the second half, includ­ing 10 points by Dressler from underneath. 
•'I was just cutting to the basket and coming back for the ball," Dressler said. "They were in a zone and they 
.... _...,. ................"' ..............• ....... f. 
Frank LaGrotta 

they couldn't beat them on talent. And he was right because that's exactly what they did. Missouri was not -is not -a better team than Notre Dame and not even their coach, Norm Stewart, would argue with that. 
However that is not meant as an insult. Rather it is a compliment to the Tigers who (and I apologize for the cliche) simply would not be denied. And you could see that in the face of Mark Dressler who probably never dreamed he would shoot 13-of-16 and score 32 points against Notre Dame. Or Steve Stipanovich who, just a few months ago, was considering bringing his massive amount of talent to the school he helped beat on Saturday. 
This game came down to talent against tenacity, guts against glitter, the haves against the "think-we-haves." And the final score speaks for itself. 
But wait a minute! That's not fair, is it? Isn't the object of these imbecilic, winner-take-all orgies to crown the better team? Isn't that the definition of champion? 
May the best man what? Lose!!?? 
Or is that a bit twisted. Maybe the ones who try are the real winners. Maybe it's true on any given Sunday or Saturday or Tuesday that any team that sweats more, works more and cares more, really can beat any other team. 
And maybe that's the way it should be. 
''This is what life is all about men,'' Digger told a different group of players in the same kmd of locker room after his Irish were upset by Michigan in the 1974 playoffs. 
"You have dreams and you try to reach them. you don't always manage it." 
But dreams don't just happen. You have to make them happen. 
...Tigers 
followed me through and then stopped; Larry (Drew) pene­trated a lot and then dished off." ' 
The score remained close for the rdt of regulation, but Missouri centet Steve Stipano­vich gave the ,Tigers a 76-74 lead wit)l 24 se~onds left. 
The Irish calldl timeout to set up the final play. Bill Hanzlik dribbled toward the basket but lost the;ball, Orland Woolridge and Drew forced a jump ball. 
Woolridge tapped to Tripucka, who rifled a pass to Woolridge .underneath the basket, after bobbling it momentarily. The 6' -9" center layed the ball in with four seconds on the dock. The Tigers quickly called time­out, but only one second_ re­mained when the official stop­ped play. Notre Dame's Gil Salinas blocked Mizzou's in­bounds attempt, sending the game into overtime. 
Missouri got its biggest break 22 secon~s into the overtime. w~en Trtpucka, who had 22 pol;'lts for the game, fouled out 


· trymg to rebound to Drew. 
D~ew sank the fou~ shot~, the~ 

talhed two of his Mtssoun 
record 12 assists on backdoor 
baskets, as the Tige_rs g~abbed 
!1-82-80 lead. Hanz~ mtssed a 
J';'mper on the next lrtsh posses­
ston, and Track Jackson was 
forced to foul Dressler on the 
rebound. The 6-~ forward 
converted, and the Ttgers were 
content to trade. points for the i rest of the overttme. . , Jackson had an oustan~g 1 game for N~tre Dame~ leadmg; the l~tsh wtth 27 {'Otnts and · grabbtng and amaztng 19 re­b~unds, m<?st of. them offen-1 s1ve. W oolrtdge al~o perfor~ed well underneath wtth 16 po~ts and seven rebounds. Seruor 
Bill Hanzlik added 13 points in his final game at Notre Dame, but classmate Rick Branning was held scoreless. 
GAME NOTES --Missouri will play Louisiana State in the regional semifinals in Houston, Texas on Friday. 

jeff Bronschidle tallied three assist against Michigan, bumping his season mark ofpoints for a defenseman to 49. Brownschidle surpassed his brother jack's record of 48 set 

HAIR DESIGNS FOR THE AWARE MAN AND WOMAN 
SPECIAL OFFER 
Free Redken Shampoo and Conditioner With any haircut 
$3sovalue ~EDKE'N 
(GOODTHRU MARCH 31 
HOURS 

MON,TUE,WED ONLY) 
Mon. 8:30-S·OO Thurs. 8:,30-8:30 lfOI an Appointment,, Tues. 8·30-5·30 Fri. 8 30-il'JO Wed. 8 30-0 30 Sat. 8 00-4 oo Call 234-6767 
IF YOU THINK FEDEUL STUDENT 
AID IS ONLY FOR POOR KIDS, YOU'RE WRONG. 
. Ed and Sarah both work and make good money. They didn't think any of thei' six children would be eligible for any sort of Federal aid. 
But Jenni qualified for a Basic Grant and young Ed also applied for and got a Guaranteed Student Loan. Of course, no one is guaranteedstudy money. But the only way you'll know if your kids qualify
Is to apply. 

Get the details from the high school counselor or the postsecondary school finan­cial aid administrator or write to Box 84, Wash­ington, D.C. 20044 and ask for ''A Student Consumer's Guide:' Do it today. 


United States Office of Education 
., 

l_,___ ..; __. ---·-'"'­
....... 



The Observer-SportsBoard Monday, March 10, 1980 -page 10 
Basketball 
EAST REGIONAL 
Saturday's games Iowa 77. North Carolina St. 64 Maryland 86, Tennessee 75 
Sunday's games Georgetown 74, lana 71 Syracuse 87, Villanova 83 
MIDEAST REGIONAL 
Saturday's qames Purdue 87. St. John s. N.Y. 72 Duke 52, Penn 42 
Sunday's games Kentucky 97, Florida St. 78 Indiana 68, Virginia Tech 59 
MIDWEST REGIONAL 

Saturday's games Lousiville 71, Kansas St. 69, OT Missouri 87. Notre Dame 84, OT 
Sunday's games :.ousiana St. 98, Alcorn St. 88 Texas A&M 78. North Carolina 61, 2 OT 
WEST REGIONAL 
Saturday's games Clemson 71, Brigham Young 66 Lamar 81, Oregon St. 17 
Sunday's games UCLA 77, DePaul 71 Ohio St. 89, Arizona St. 75 
MISSOURI87, NO 84 

Missouri (87)-Dressler 13 6-8 32, Frazier 6 2-2 14, Stlpanovlch 5 5-8 15, Sunvold 4 2-2 10, Drew 6 3-315, Dare 0 1-3 1, Foster 0 0-0 0, Amos 0 0-0 0. Totals-34 19-26 87. 
NOTRE DAME (84)-Jackson 13 1-4 
27. Tripucka 9 4-6 22. WoolrldQe 6 4-7 
Molarity 


The Daily Crossword 
© 1980 by Chjcago Tribune-N.Y. News Synd. Inc. All Rights Reserved 
' 
!, 
'I 'I 
1

•·'I'· '. ',.. ~ '\); ·~, .). ·.. ,'. I •1 '·'>'',. 'l) '.·. ·:, .... ,.,.,) ? r~ 'j 1\ " ..· ,r.' .:.·,,, ··,·.! ·.:· · ..1· ..~ .....\' :;,.··.. ;: ·~··,f,l· :,·.,, ·r.~·:·:i'·,.'l';· :.:~ <;,,\ /, .'1• ·~.···? :/' :'. ·..• I ;',i;
•' \' .·, . . ,l, ' ' t. t . ·' •. ~ ; ' .~ ,: i.' .'\ ,. /.• '· ( I ·', i ( . I )! I 
l----------~--------~ 
16, Branning 0 0-0 0, Hanzlik 4 5-6 13, · Paxson 22-3 6, Andree 00-0 0, Salinas 0 0-0 o. Totals-34 16-26 84. 
Halftime-Notre Dame 42, Missouri 
36. Total fouls-Missouri 21, Notre Dame 24. Fouled out-Notre Dame, Tripucka, Hanzlik. Technicals-Mis­souri hP.nr.h A-14 'i'iR. 
Boxing 

50th Annual Bengal Bouts 
FINAL RESULTS 125 lbs.-Murphy def. Borgatti, unanim­ous dec. 133 lbs.-Rivera def. Hi:lsman. unanim­ous dec. 1381bs.-Mohan del. Stephens, unanim­ous dec. 147 lbs.-Ricci def. Bush, unanimous dec. 1551bs.-Tharp def. Marrone, TKO 1:13 of second round. 160 lbs.-McCabe def. Nester, unanimous dec. 162 lbs.-Cortese del. Ren, unanimous dec. 165 lbs.-Fiynn def. Devine. split dec. 170 lbs.-budd del. Pullano, split dec. 1751bs.-Burke def. Burlebach, unanim­ous dec. Heavyweight-McCormick del. Boggs, unanimous dec. 
Hockev-.. 
NOTRE DAME 8, MICHIGAN 3 
FIRST PERIOD: 1, UM, Borune PPG 


(Hampson, Brandrup) 4:37. 2, NO, Humphreys (Brown, Schmidt) 11:04. 
SECOND PERIOD: 3, UM, Speers (Eaves. Tippett) 5:20. 4, UM. Baseotto (Hampson, Lerg) 9:13. 5, NO, Dave Lucia (unassisted) 9:26. 6, NO Schmidt PPG (Michalek, Weltzin) 14:07. 
THIRD PERIOD: 7, NO, Dubois (Meredith, Schmidt) 9:05. 8, NO. Higgins (Collard, Dave Lucia) 9:53. 9, NO, Humphreys (unassisted) 11:02. 10, NO, Rothstein (Bjork, Perry) 12:11. 11, NO, Meredith PPG (Brownschidle, Weltzin) 19:21. 
SAVES: UM-Fricker (38); ND-Laurion (32). 
PENALTIES: UM 5-10, ND5-10. 
ATTN: 4,150. 

MICHIGAN 4, NOTRE DAME 3 
FIRST PERIOD: 1, NO, Bercdith PPG )Brownschidle. Schmidt) 5:14. 2, UM, Todd (Speers, Eaves) 5:38. 3, UM, Blum PPG (Manning, Eaves) 15:10. 
SECOND PERIOD: 4, UM, Lerg (Blum, Mars). 2:54. 5, UM, Baseotto (Blum, Mannmg) 5:48. 6, ND. Michalek PPG (Schmidt, Meredith) 11:02. 
THIRD PERIOD: 7, NO, Schmidt PPG (Brownschldle, Michalek) 13:38. SAVES: UM-Friker (32); ND-Laurion 
(36). 
PENALTIES: UM 15-30, NO 13-26. 
ATTN: 4,225. 
WCHA PLAYOFFS FIRST ROUND (Total Goals) 

At  Ann  Arbor:  Notre  Dame  8-3,  
Michigan 11-7.)  3-4  (Notre  Dame  wins series  

by Michael Molinelli 
... IFI~SEVER I>IW'TEJ), C(tf8.o1T 1>tJTY 
WWLf> BE A PIECE OF 


ACROSS  32  Neck or  58 All-around  13 Reverber­ 
1 Imprint 5 Butter  step 36 Son of  63  pest Musical  21  ated Direct  
lumps 9 Supply a feast  39 40  Aphrodite Volume Cabinet VIP  64  drama Long time periods  22 Della of song 26 Consider  

14  Irish town  43  Sunday  
15  Once again  paper  
16  Heath genus  section,  
17  Matured  for short  
18  Hoarfrost  44  Hebrew  
19  Obey  measure  
20  WWI VIP  45  Polishing  
23  Cleared the  material  
blackboard  46  Get going  
24  Sword  48  Chemical  
25  Gave nutri­ suffix  
ment to  50  Pollution  
27  Newspaper official  53  problem Texas city  
Friday's results  



3/8/80 

RO!llE DAME'S GllEAT BOOKS PBOGllAII Consider a truly 
RUMARIS!IC llDUCATIORtj!~~
l.6""Ao JL 

@~f'f talkwltbfac-.Jtyudst"Odlllta 
~~~fMonday Marcb 10, 7:80P.M. GBAOI PI! GBR•BAL PBOGBAII or LIB.BAL S!UDIBS 

At Grand Forks: North Dakota 8-5, Michigan State 1-3 (North Dakota wins series 13-4). 
At Minneapolis: Minnesota 7-6, Michi­gan Tech 2-3 (Minnesota wins series 13-5). 
At Colorado Springs: Colorado College 4-7. Minnesota-Duluth 3-6 (Colorado Col­lege wins series 11-9). 
NEXT WEEK SECOND ROUND (Total Goals) 
NOTRE DAME at North Dakota 
Colorado College at Minnesota 
Track 
Notre Dame-66 Iowa· 65 

Mile Run: 1) Hatherly NO 4:12.85, Kenny NO 4:12.85 3) Burger NO 4:18.5 440 Yard Run: 1) Eady NO :49.0 2) Stanowski lA :49.4 3) Jenson lA :49.7 Shot Put: 1) Boyer lA 53' 7 W' 2) O'Connor lA 51' 3 W' 3) Kuzan NO 46' 9 
3/1" 

60 Yard Dash: 1) Mosley lA: 06.31 2) Brown lA :06.41 3) McCalister lA :06.52 880 Yard Run: 1) Aragon NO 1:53.77 
2)Rogers NO 1:54.44  1:54.41  3) Macauley NO  
60Yard  High  Hurdles:  1) Bernards NO  

:07.51 2) Milloy lA :07.57 3) Twardzik NO :06.68 600 Yard Dash: 1) Dzlabls NO 1:10.87 2) McCalister lA 1:11.42 3) Ellis lA 1:13.67 Long Jump: 1) Quarles lA 22' 8" 2) Cobb lA 22' 3 %" 3) Hedinger N D 21' 300 Yard Dash: 1) Mosley lA :30.9 2) Eady NO :31.24 3) Brown lA :31.32 Pole Vault: 1) Stow NO 15' 6" 2) Chronert NO 14' oo" 3) Brewec Kelso lA 13' 6" 1000 Yard Dash: 1) Miranda NO 2:12.45 
2) Burger NO 2:13.78 3) Slattery NO 2:13.98 Two Mile Run: 1) Ferre lA 9:·13.45 2) Bartolini NO 9:16.90 3) Filosa NO 9:18.84 Mile Relay: 1) Iowa 3:22.40 2) Notre Dame 3:24.37 High Jump: 1) Hlavin lA 6'10" 2) Knoedel, Smith lA 6'6" Triple Jump: 1) Kazlml NO 48' 6 W' 2) Quarles lA 47' 4" 3) McAuliffe NO 42' 10 14" 
S\\:imming 
1980 MIDWEST INVITATION SWIM MING AND DIVING CHAMPIONSHIPS NOTRE DAME SCORERS 
500-yd. Freestyle-Michael Hilger (11th out of 40) 4:54.50 200-yd. Individual Medley -Glenn Battle (11th out of 60) 2:00. 7*. 
50-yd. Freestyle -John Komara (3rd out of 44) :21.7. 
1-meter Diving -Paul McGowan (7th out of 22) 365.00 points, Betsy Shadley (8th out of 22) 356.00 points. 
400-yd. Medley Relay -Glenn Battle, John Wlllamowski, Mike Shapardson, John Komora. (7th out of 20) 3:40.68*. 
400-yd Individual Medley -John K~t­mora (6th out of 21) 4:19.90 (4:18.5* In the preliminaries). 
200-yd. Freestyle -no qualifiers for finals. 
100-yd. Butterfly • Mike Shepardson (6th out of 23) :52.75, Don Casey (9th out o.f 23) :53.70 (~hepardson's preliminary t1me was :52.66 ). 
100-yd. Backstroke-Glenn Battle (4th out of 21) :55.45. Louis Bowersox (6th out of 21) :56.27, Rody Mclaughlin (9th out of 21) :57.52. 
100-yd. Breaststroke -John Willamow­ski (121h out of 21) 1:04.70. 3-Meter Diving -Paul McGowan (6th out of 22) 347.10, Betsy Shadley (7th out of 
22) 336.35, Chris Leonard (12th out of 22) 299.85. 
800-yd. Freestyle Relay-Greg Bohdan, Dave Campbell, Michael Hilger. John Gibbons, (7th out of 10) 7:13.77*. 
1650-yd. Freestyle-Mlchale Hilger (8th out of 18) 16:54.51*, Dave Campbell (11th out of 18) 17:10.90. 
100-yd Freestyle-John Komora (1st out of 44) :47.31. 
200-yd. Backstroke -Glenn Battle (3rd out of 21) 2:01.21, louis Bowersox (5th out of 21) 2:;2.66. 
200-yd. Breastroke -no qualifiers for finals. 200-yd. Butterfly-Don Casey (3rd out of 21) 1:57.59*. 
400-yd. Freestyle Relay-Glenn Battle. Mike Shepardson, Thom Krutsch. John Komara (6th out of 10) 3:13.5*. 
* Denotes new varsity record 
Final Team Standings 
Western Kentucky 448 Indiana State 315 Bradley 306 Eastern Kentucky 228 NOTRE DAME 195 Illinois State 192 Illinois-Chicago Circle 91 Wisconsin-Milwaukee 72 Evansville 69 Valparaiso 6 
Tennis 
Saturday Wisconsin 6, Notre Dame 3 Singles No. 1 -Ken Thomas (W) det. Mark McMahon 6-1, 7-6. No. 2 -Carlton Harris (N D) def. Rhys Thomas 7-6, 3-6, 7-6. No. 3 -Dave Pelisek (W) def. Harb Hopwood 7-5. 6-3. 
No. 4-Mark Hoyer (N D) def. Paul Van Walleghem 7-5, 6-1. No. 5 -Andy Ringlien (W) def. Tom Hartzell 7-6, 6-3. 
No. 6 -Rusty Muenz (W) def. Tom Robinson 6-3, 6-3. 
Doubles 
No. 1 -K. Thomas/Pelisek (W) del. Harris/Hopwood 2-6, 6-1, 6-4. No. 2 -R. Thomas/Ringlien (W) del. McMahan/Hoyer 6-4. 3·6, 6-4. No. 3 -Jim Falvey/Tim Noonan (NO) del. Muenz/Walleghem 6-4. 3-6, 6-3. 
Sunday Notre Dame 7, Iowa 2 Singles 
No. 1 -Tom Holtman (I) def. Mark McMahon. 3-6, 7-6, 7-6 (5-4). No. 2 -Carlton Harris (N D) del. Greg Anderson, 6-2, 3-6, 6-1. No. 3 -Herb Hopwood (N D) def. Eric Pepping, 7-6, 6-4. No.4· Matt Smith (I) del. Mark Hoyer. 4-6, 6-2. 6-3. No. 5 -Tom Hartzell (NO) del. Tim Jacobson, 6-2. 3-6, 6-2. No. 6 -Tom Robison (NO) del. Dan Rustin, 6-2, 6-3. 
Doubles 
No. 1 -Harris/Hopwood (NO) del. Holtman/Anderson, 7-5, 6-1. No. 2-McMahan/Hoyer (NO) del. Pepping/Smith, 7-6, 5-7, 6-3. No. 3-Jim Falvey/Tim Noonan (NO) def. Jacobson/Austin, 7-6, 6-3. 
i •,, ·,\,\I,") 'j• ')\'')''}'' ' 1•1 ·'·) ,l' .!•.' .. {r :·. : '.' \ . . . ' '· . 
65 Marsupials, 28 News bit for short 29 Raced madly 
66 Folklore 30 Tent maker water 31 Depend sprite 32 Dress 
67 Paris girl 33 Indian 
friend 34 Mel's folks 68 Taboo 35 Lampblack 69 Outer 37 Bread or 
70 Basketball whiskey team 38 Cyclops, 71 Footprint for one 41 Bellini 
DOWN opera 1 Theater 42 Requires 2 Wanting 47 Begin land 
very much 49 Cacophonies 3 Sports 51 New York locale city 4 Loads op-52 Dwarf pressively 54 Mak~a 5 Easter sala event 55 Face 6 Indigo 56 Stone of-
shrub 57 Fable man 7 Vale of-58 Part of 8 Use a broom GWTW 9 Halted 59 Poem about 
10 Mischievous heroes 11 Monkey 60 Nearest 12 School 61 Silkworm 

------------~-----­
-----------.. 
The Observer-Sports. Monday ,March 10, 1980 -page 11 
<\ 



THt; FIGHTING 
.IRISH 
... leers 

[continued from page 12] 
lot from the Wolverines. 
"Killing both those power plays was a key factor," said Smith. "And Laurion came up real big. He did just a great job in goal.'' 
The tide then turned towards Notre Dame. Senior Matt Dubois, who was dressing in his first game since December of last reason, rewrote the script for "Rocky" by taking a _{>ass inside the Michigan hne, skating in on Wolverine goalie Paul Fricker, and picking out the right corner of the net perfectly for what proved to be the game winning goal. In his last appearance· Dec. 12, 1978 versus Western Michigan · Dubois also had a goal. This was his f!Cst tally in WCHA play. 
That started a phenomenallO minute span for the Irish, who skated circles around Fricker. After Dubois' goal, Notre Dame added three more over three minutes. John Higgins, Humphreys, and Bill Rothstein put the game away as the Irish pulled ahead, 7·3. Rothstein's tally came at 12: 11. 
Senior Greg Meredith scored his tOOth goal at Notre Dame with just 39 seconds remaining to give the Irish a five-goal lead headins into the second night of the senes. 
''Saturday, we were tight and pressing from the start, " Smith said. ''That was only natural. We knew we wanted to win, yet I'm sure the seniors were thinking about their freshman year when we lost a big lead to Minnesota to lose a playoff series. I think perha_ps we started to think about lostng our lead.'' 
After Meredith opened the game with a power play goal at 5:14 of the first period, Doug Todd answered back at 5:38 to even things, 1-1. Michigan coach Dan Farrell dressed only four defenseman and went with 14 forwards to try and add muscle to the front line. The game was a rough one from the 

Matt Dubois 

start, and as the season began to wind down on the Wolver­ines, they got all the rougher ­and cheaper. 
"When the ~arne became so physical, the btg test for us was to maintain self control,'' explained Smith. "But the players acted in a mature manner and kept their heads. That was important and it's a tribute to them as peo_ple." 
John Blum gave Mtchigan a 2-1 lead after the first period with a score at 15:10, and Wolverines closed the total ~oals gap to 9· 7 with two more tn the second. Dan Lerg and Baseotto scored at 2:54 and 
5:48 to make the game score 4-1. Notre Dame was pressing at this point with 1ts lead dwindling, but a power play goal by-Tom Michalek took away a lot of momentum from Michigan and the Irish could breathe a little easier from · there. 
A major ruckus erupted at 
8:46 of the third period when four separate bouts broke out after a hard hit WI Schmidt upon an icing call. Referees Duane Markus and Rich Haigh had their hands full keeping things under control and sent three players from each team into the penalty box with double minors for roughing. Neither team had five skaters back until three minutes remained. 
Schmidt closed out the scoring with a power play goal at 13:38. Althougl_l Notre Dame 
had lost Saturday's literal battle, 4-3, it won the war, 11-7. 
Irish defenseman Jeff ... 
Brownschidle totafed tnree 
assists for the weekend and 
broke the record for points in a 
season by a defenseman. Jeff 
now totals 49 points this year, 
one more than his brother]ack 
had collected in the 1976-77 
campaign. ] eff also equalled 
Jack's record for assists (35) in 
a single year. 
Meredith, with two goals this 
weekend, now totals 101 and 
needs two more to tie Eddie 
Bumbacco's record for goals in 
an Irish career. He has 120 
more minutes of an opportunity 
to equal the mark next week in ·Grand Forks. 
IRISH ITEMS: Both games 
of next weekend's series will be 
broadcast locally by WSND­
AM, beginning at 8:30 each 
night... the Notre Dame Blue 
Line club had a contingent of 
over 50 people in Ann Arbor 
this weekend... "We really 
appreciated the boost they gave 
us," said Smith... Pouhn and 
Cameron are not the only 
Ruestion marks for next week­
end ... John Friedman suffered 
a slightly separated left shoul­
der Saturday. and is also ques­
tionable. 
All classified ads must be received by 5:00p.m. , two days prior 
to the issue in which the ad is run. The Obsemr office will accept 
classlfieds Monday thrOUQh Friday, 10:00 a.m. to 5;00 p.m. All 
classifieds must be pre-pa1d, either In person or through the mail.
Classifieds 
Notices 
Need ride to General Pa. for break. Anyone passing thru via Pa. Turn­pike please Help. Expenses and driving shared. Jim 1688. 
Last Chance--NJ Club bus has spaces left!! Call Chris af 1178 and Kevin at 1166 for reservations. 
Professional typist. 1B M Selectric II. Business and academic experience.272-3134. 
Typing Plus. Term papers, theses, dissertations. Light editing, ghost writing. Literary search, bibliogra­phies, genealogies. Job resume service. Sliding rate scale based on lead-time. Special discounts on full contracts for theses and dissertations. Aardvark Automatic Solutions, P. 0. Box 1204, 56624, Phone: (219) 289·6753. 
Free Free Free Style cut with purchase of Day Into Night, Redkln's new moisture control­ling acid wave. Try it. You're worth it. Just $43.00. Jan's Beauty Boutique, 143 Dlxieway, Roseland. 
Morrissey Loan Fund 

N.D. Student Loans. $20·$200. Due In one month. One percent interest. Basement of LaFortune. 11 :30·12:30 M·F. Last day for May grads to apply is March 14. 
Will do typing, neat accurate, call 287-5162. 
Lost&Found 
LOST: Red and white ski Jacket at 806 St. Louis St. Sat. night any info on···please call 4619. Desperately need keys. Film in camera has sentimental value. No questions asked. Please at least mall keys and film to 752 LeMans. Thank You. 
14 k. gold serpentine bracelet wlth'a gold "D" charm. Call Debbie 7659. 
--------·-·--·-----­
LOST: At DePaul game. One Pierre Cardin glass case. Call 8785. 
Lost: Turquoise ring with a silver band. Call Anne 1274. 
Lost: Green stocking cap. Disappear· ed from coat pocket Wed. lunch, west side of SOH. Of great personal value. Call Steve M. 6708. 
LOST: gold and diamond pendant from necklace. Reward. Call Maureen 4634. 
LOST: Good leather gloves at Main Circle bus station. Call Don at 1756. 
FOUND: A girl's Notre Dame class ring. Found In Library Auditorium. Call 4262 to identify. 
LOST: Small square ladles watch with 2 diamonds on each side, Feb. 23 at Sacred Heart concert. Reward. Call Sharon 6258. 
FOUND: Pair of glasses between Grace and Library. Pick up at Lost and Found Ad. Bldg. 
For Rent 
Moving off campus next year? 3-6 bedroom houses for rent. Call Tim 283·8682. 
I need a ride home to the Miami or Ft. Lauderdale area over spring break. Wiling to share driving and expenses. Call Frank 1975. 
Wanted 
Needed: Riders to Denver for Spring Bruklll Call 3246. 
------·---·-­
WANTED: I need to borrow some­one's van/pickup for one weekend (Frl to Sunday) anyt1me between now and April 7. UrQent. Some recompense possible to kmdly Christian willing to help me out. Cal 232·6344 for details, between noon and 9 pm. Leave name and number. 
If you are worried about survival, start 
thmklng health and wealth. LIGHT­
FORCE and your life force won< 
together to produce the best nutrition 
which brings you cash/bonus each 
month. Keep your own hours. Be 
your own boss. Send brief resume to: 
Pat Bailey, 514 S. Edward, Mt. 
Prospect, II, 60056. Or call LIGHl'­
FORCE (312) 870-1146 for further 
l!!!_'!!_matio_!!.:_.____·--·-
Frlendly dog needs ride St. Louls·S. Bend. Will share expenses. 288·9277. 
Two need ride east on 1·80 Srlng break. Call Karen 6779. 
·-----·­
1need six graduation tix. Call Dick at 232·6831. 
------·-·-----­
Need ride to/from Massachusetts for spring break. Call SMC 4960. 
~ed ride to Phllly for spring break. 
Call Vince 8831. 
Need ride to and from Miami for Spring Break. Will ahara $$$ Please call 233-2201 attar 11 pm on. 
Need riders to Champaign, U. of Ill. March 14·16. Call Martha 41-4302. 
Student Union Campus Pnaa needs a wall-organized, efficient secretary to work 1·5 dally for 1980-81 year. Dullea Include processing ordars and the setup/layout of posters. Begin train­Ing now. Apply 1-5 In person, basement of Lafortune. Any ques­tions call 7047 or Diana at 7994. 
Need rideto Bo~~r&ak:-can 
drive and will pay. Call Kevin 1670. 

LOCAL BAND NEEDS BRASS SEC­TION: TRUMPET* TROMBONE* ALTO* TENOR SAX. PLEASE CON­MICHAEL COLEMAN IN THE SOUTH DINING HALL OR CALL ME AT HOME 289-11185AFTERI:OO P.M. 
Need ride to Cleveland for break. Call Tom or Jim 8321. 
.For Sale 
Got a blank space on your wall? Fill It with color basketball action photos. 
All players, all sizes.  Cheap.  Not  
available from Ronco or K-Tel.  Call  
8932.  ..  

FLASH: Photographic equipment for sale---fantastic bargains/ Cameras, lenses. Cali 232-4129. 
For Sale: 1973 Ford Gran Torino Sport. Red with black vinyl top and yellow laser strife. Excellent condi­tion. 50,000 miles. One-owner. $1200. 
Call (317) 844·2115. (Indianapolis) 
Minolta SR T200 for sale; Call Barbara 
E2-437a~.----·--------·­
Personals 
Bat the SiouxII! 
To my Secret Admirer, . This Is becoming an expensive game. I'm running out of money and pati­ence. How about some clues? 
Admiree 

Rosie, Do ya know what? Michael 
D.C. Club meatlng-LaFortuna Little Theatre. Wednesday March 12, 6:30 pm. Meeting, elections and bus trip algn-upa. [Bring money or check: No refunds.). Round-trip $55, ona-way $30. 
To the guys who write the soap opera personals: Where have you been lately? You made this fob fun and interesting!! 
Suds and Drugs and Rock 'n' Roll Corby's Street kids, Sottballamokar Sat. March 15th 8 pm 1121 W. Western. Free beer, food games, live rock by "The Pages $3.00 admlaalon tlx at Corby's or door. 
Raney role, Rl Reed Rou ... Rittle 
Attention SMC Ring-by-Spring Candl· dates: IBM has made Stu Mulligan a very eligible man. Go for it. Congrats, Stu. 
Gal void, I wasn't surprised that you like a good storm. Trouble is you think all rain Is warm. I suppose It doesn't really matter tho what we get because afterall everythlngs better when wet, right?? 
Gus-The Big Pres. Congratulations! I knew you could do it! 
Lisa 

Hey Stlnklea, I had a wicked good time. It bums ma out to the MAX to know It's over. Thanks for the memories! 
Love, MEL 

P.S. Fly mel 
Shelly, I missed you skiing! I hope your trip enabled you to make some firm decisions? I'm anxious to hear, soon! 
Jay 

Father Kevin Cope, Do the initials after your name, C.S.C. stand for Certified Super Celebant??? (This abuse Is brought to you by the l'rotect our Little Brown Brothers 
Campaign.). 
Jim J., Thanks. I really had a great time.
Love, Joanne 
Goose and Greg, Oh heavy sigh! The year 2000 Is SO very far away!! Loved it. 
Your beautiful "Tapeworms" 

ATTENTION NO·SMC WOMEN 
THE PDM SURVEY OF THE MONTH: Do you or do you not wear underwear to bed? Please respond. Phone 8165 or 147 Howard. 
EDDIE Munster: Dinner at the restuarant of your choice for any test grade over 40. 
An anonymous Admirer 

P.S. No wine this time. 
To all the puppies on 4th floor Walsh who can't go to Glen Ellen, (esp. Liz. unless she goes), have a good time throating. 
Guess who? 

Dave, Thanks for understanding. Deirdre 
This personal has been cancelled due to Emil. 
Lansdale Fox, Sorry I blew off the party, but how about Gooses's sometime? 
KJM 

JOTES MAKES HER TRIUMPHANT RETURN TO THE DINING HALL TODAY. EAT TO THE BEATlll 
Many thanks to Mike Wiedt and John Kacergls for a fine job as state chairmen and co-chairman. 
The Pennsylvania Delegation 

Dear Bill Leary, The Pennsylvania Delegation motions to thank r.ou for the Saturday eve ad hoc socla. 
Motion passes. 
Do I hear a second? 

Jesuit Volunteers Corp Midwest will have arepresentative In the Volunteer Services Office March 10, 1-5, and March 11, 9·12. 
Hey Freshman: 
VOTE Jim DuBoyce Mary Powel Jabaley Mike Mills Mary CooganSophomore Class Officers. 
Brldgets thinks you need 1 break! Happy Haur from 4-l dally. Quarur beers 9:30-10:30 nltely. Now that's 1 daalll 
Vote for Burton-Kioskowski-Obrems· key-Finnerty for Junior Class Officers. 
D. Hawfleld presents "Dorothy Par­ker" 1 one woman play, Regina Aud. I pm, WOWI · 
1 ' ___....;·_........___ 
Megan, six months and going strong... thanks for everything! Love, Spatz 
Denise, Nell has rewritten Ills lyrics especially for you ...now you can be 21 on Sugar Mountaln...much happiness and brew on your 21st, Woz!! 
Love, 
Jill Ann (over the hill) 
Annette (somewhere...) 

TO THE YOUNG CRIMINAL WHO ABDUCTED MY HAT: The safe return of my hat Is prerequisite to any negotiations. Return It to SOH L & F, then call. I'm considering reprisals!\ SGM 
Softball Anyone interested In coaching the NO women's softball team (fast pitch), please call Karen at 1258 or 2163. 
The Great Books-the great minds. Meet faculty and students of the General Program of Liberal Studies, Monday, March 10, 7:30 pm, Grace pit. 
Uncle Sam wants you to elect Mr. Bill as Umoc. 
Like to party but can't afford It on a student budget? Bridget's serves up 25 cant drafts from 9:30·10:30 nitaly. Bring a crowd. 
Class of '80 · remember on Monday: 
Burton 
Kloakowaki 
Obremakey
Finnerty 
for Junior Ciaaa Officers. 

Congratulations to the Notre Dame/St. Mary's Gymnastics Team on a fine season and ajob well done at' Purdue. Special congratulations to Sophomore Superstar Dave Petrillo. 
Megan,
Good luck with the election! 
Jolin 

-.J 
..--------------------~--------------------------­

Monday, March 10, 1980 -page 12 
leers top Michigan; head for North Dakota 
by Bnan Beglane ''I'm very proud of the whole Sports Writer team. We were away from home and we faced some keyANN ARBOR --In a season of injuries this weekend. But the the unexpected, Notre Dame team withstood a lot of pressure
hockey coach Lefty Smith has and showed a lot of potse.'' come to expect the unexpected. Injuries, in fact, caused And the "unexpecteds" -Smith to rearrange the entire 
including one brand new player offense. · Sophomore center -were a major reason the Irish Dave Poulin was sidelined with defeated Michigan this week­a thigh injury and defenseman end tQ advance to the second Scott Cameron also sat out with round of the Western Collegiate a thigh wound. Four new lines Hockey Association playoffs. took the ice Friday night, and 
Notre Dame bounced back for the first period things were from a two-goal deficit Friday even. Michigan's Rogernight to score seven straight Bourne and Notre Dame's enroute to an 8-3 victory at the Kevin Humphreys exchangedYost Ice Arena, then fought off goals for a 1-1 score. 
a physical Wolverine club Then the Wolverines pulled Saturday to stay within one ahead, 3-1, on goals by Ted goal, 4-3, and win the total Speers at 5:20 of the second goals, first round playoff series, period and freshman Bruno 11-7. Baseotto at 9: 13. Irish fresh­
The Irish, now 18-18-1 man Dave Lucia answered back overall, advance to the second just 13 seconds after Baseotto's round of the WCHA playoffs for score with an unassisted tally,just the second time in their just his second of the season, to 
nine-year league history. take away a lot of momentum 
Smith's skaters will play league from Michigan. ] ohn Schmidt champion North Dakota, also tied the score, 3-3, with a power runnerup in the NCAA Final play goal at 14:07. Four last year, this Friday and Althou~h the score was even 
Saturday in Grand Forks. The heading tnto the final period,Sioux won both of the meetings Michigan had the advantage for small school to get up for a between these two teams this the first part with two power season. play opportunities. But out­
champion from a prestigious "I would like to think that to standing goaltending fromconference like the Big Eight," a certain degree we were a little sophomore Dave Laurion, whoStewart commented. 
loose this weekend,'' said played well both nights, and 
Stewart clarified the reason for Smith. "And when we're free determined penalty killing on his harsh words later in his and loose, we play a lot better. the part of the Irish took away a post-game conference. We had everything to gain and 
[continued on page 9] nothing to lose. [continued on page 11] 
As Nappy retires
.. 

50th Bengal Bouts conclude 
by Beth Huffman field of over 70. secutive Bengal championship. Women's Sports Editor 125 POUNDS--"Wild" Bob Ricci, a senior from Rochester, Murphy took the 125 pounds NY, pursued the quick Bush 
It was an afternoon for vic­class championshiJ? over last around the ring until capturing tories, stunning upsets, re­year's 130 pound wmner, Doug and then staggering him with a freshing sportsmanship and Borgatti. Mur.PhY scored the devastating left hook. Bush, a tearful goodbres at the 50th unanimous dec1sion relying on southpaw, gave Ricci a fight to Annual Benga Bouts yesterday his height and reach advantage remember as he continued to in the ACC. over the blue-trunked Borgattt. battle the champion until the 
The half-century of boxing at After the bout the boxers final bell. Notre Dame, under the direc-embraced, a display of friend­150 POUNDS--Brian ''The 
• tion of Dominick ] . ''Nappy'' ship and sportsmanship that Slayer'' Kilb decisioned Jim Napolitano, came to an end was to become tradition after Mladeni.l.. of Morrissey Hail in when the 72-rear-old choked each bout. a near even bout. Kilb, last simple farewells just prior to 13 3 POUNDS--Robert year's 147 pound champion, hit the final fight on the 12 bout "Stonehands" Rivera captured the /old-clad Mladenik in the card. Napolitano, founder of the title at 133 pounds, the class thir round with several com­the Bengals, announced his he finished as runner-up in last binations to assure the win. retirement in June after pre-year, by unanimous decision. 155 POUNDS--Barry Tharp 
senting, along with Fr. Edmund Rivera, with a slight height gave the crowd what it was 
P. Joyce C.S.C., the 1980 disadvantage, overpowered askin£ for after five fights, Bengal Bouts Award to Ray H. rookie Rich "Dickie" Hillsman excitement . The rookie Tharp Siegred, II. Siegried was with his gusto and wild-like pounded opponent Mike Mar­honored with the award for his punches. Hillsman, cheered on rone until a crimson flow came outstanding contributions to the emphatically during the bout by from Marrone's broken nose, 
sport of boxin~, as was his his fellow Dillon Hall men, standing eight count and father Bobby tn 1978. Ray defeated last year's finalist eventually a technical knock out Siegfried, a 1965 graduate of Rocky Romano to gain the final end;d the fight. The TKO by Notre Dame, was the receipient berth. ThaJIP, accredited to the Flan­
of best senior boxer award 138 POUNDS--"Smoking ner klan's strong punching, when he was one of Nappy's Mo" Dan Mohan another Big was recorded at 1:13 in the boys. Siegfried, a native of Red man, unanimously de­second round and stood as the Tulsa, Okla., continued his cisioned second-year law stu-. day's only, win by knock out. boxing career while in the dent]ohn Stephens for the 138 160 POUNDS--Tom McCabe United States Army as both a pound championships. went for gold in more ways than pugilist and coach. Stephens faced a series of the one as the blue trunked man 
The victories, upsets and rookie Mohan's one-two com­went after gold trunked ] im sportsmanship were all inter­binations in the final round of ''The Molester~• Nester to cap­mittently displayed in the after­three as his runner-up fate was ture the med~l at 160 pounds. noon on the fighting card which sealed. McCabe's strong third round 
began at 2 p.m. The day of 147POUNDS--Tony Ricci as­and continued abuse to the face boxing, to be a highlight in the sured himself a spot in the of Nester assured the graduate 
NBC Sportsworld Saint Pat­Bengal Bouts who's who list student from Bethesda, Md. of rick's Day Special, capped the when he received a unanimous the championship. season efforts of twenty-four decision over sophomore Tom 
boxers who emerged from a Bush to collect his fourth con-[continued on page8J. 
by Mark Perry Sports Editor 

LINCOlN, Neb. --For the 
Missouri Tigers it came down to 
a question of exposure. 
Notre Dame got a lot, and the Tigers felt they werne' t getting their fair share. 
Coach Norm Stewart griped about it, his players were aware of it, and in Saturday's second round game of the Midwest Regional, Missouri went about the business of proving they deserved a little more of it. 
And if the Tigers' effort in their 87-84 overtime victory over the Fighting Irish is any indication of the way Mizzou can play, they should be getting plenty ofexposurein the weeks ahead. 
After battling Notre Dame even for 40 minutes, the Tigers converted on two backdoor palys, got the key rebounds, and converted some clutch free 
throws in overtime to advance 
to the third round of the NCAA 
basketball championships. 
"We just didn't get the inten­sity we needed to score in the overtime, and we still couldn't keep them from scoring," not­ed Irish coach Digger Phelps, who fell short in his seventh attempt at a national title since coming to Notre Dame. 
"Missouri was unbelievably disciplined, and they worked for the better shots in the second half,'' added Phelps. ''They had a lot of enthusiasm and played with intensiry that never let up. We just didn't make the shots when we need­ed them, and they outplayed us when it counted.'' 
Stewart, who refused to talk about Notre Dame on Friday because "they ~et enou~h pub­licity already,' couldn t keep from rubbing it in a little after the game. 
''I'm sure it's hard for a 
Women cagers receive bidto AlAWnationals 
by Mark Hannuksela first three rounds being played 
Sports Writer on the home floors of the teams 
with the better records. The 
Despite a cou~le of tough semi-finals and finals will then losses, in the semt-finals and tn be played at Whitworth College the consolation bracket of last in Spokane, Washington. weekend's regional tourna­For Petro, the invitation ment, the Notre Dame women's came quite unexpectedly. basketball team has received an ''I was just sitting here invitation to the AlA W national telling a friend of mine that this Division III tournament. was my last day of relaxation 
Coach Sharon Petro's squad before work started again to­will play their first round game morrow (today), and not 30 on Wednesday, on the home seconds later, the phone rang. floor of their opponents, Pacific I didn't know what to say Lutheran College of Oregon. when Betty (Norman, a mem­
Pacific Lutheran, who enter­ber of the AIW A Division III ed their regional tournament selection committee told me with a 16-3 record, received an that we got a bid. I still don't automatic bid to the national know what to say. Guess that tournament by finishing second this at-large bid means that to the Oregon College of Busi­we're one of the top 24 teams in ness in region nine. the country among Division Ill 
The 24 team national tourna­schools. That's a pretty good ment is run in a similar fashion feeling." to the NCAA's National Invita­tional Tournament, with the [continued on page 8] 







