----------~-----­
---~------..,.------~~---------­
Pinto trial -page 4
' ' ' 


VOLUME XIV NO. 65 an independent student newspaper ser-Ving notre dame and saint mary's THURSDAY, JANUARY 17, 1980 
Security reports burglaries in three dorm.s over break 
by Tom Hay Senior StaffReporter 
Thieves who posstbly carried special keys entered Farley, Breen-Phillips and Flanner halls 
over  Christmas  break,  but  losses  were  not  
extensive.  
Breen-Phillips  food  sales  was  the  target  of  

intruders who apparently ate and socialized, perhaps returning more than once. Eleven pizza shells were missing cans of pizza ·sauce and cheese were opened. and empty pop cans and cigarette butts littered the floor. 
According to BP rectress Sr. Patricia Dowd, there was no forced entry into either the hall or the food sales area. ''The door was securely locked. I speculate they must have had a key. They only way to get into the building is through the ramp and fire door in the back, and that takes a special master key.'' 
Total losses have not yet been determined. 
Thieves entered Farley through a basement window, then removed items from three different rooms. The rooms involved were tow-and three-room suites, and in each case the thieves were able to unlock an unused door to gam access. 
Teri Hyland, one of the burglary victims , said, "The lock wasn't damaged, but they broke the chain on the door. They even pushed back some dressers we had in front of it." Security informed Hyland that the crime rook place on New Year's Day. 
The two other rooms in Farley were apparently entered in the same manner, but were also ransacked. Maids had put the rooms back in order before students returned from break. 
When first questioned about the break-ins, Glenn Terry, director of Notre Dame security, offered sketchy information about the Farley incident, and none on the Breen-Phillips case. 
"We don't know exactly what happened. Two or three rooms in Farley were entered. Somebody somehow or other got in -we don't know how. We really don't have an explanation for that yet.'' When confronted wi'h the facts, Terry acknowledged them to b.e true and added that "there may have been a key involved." 
According to Terry, extra guards had been 
(continued on page 7) 

By pro-shah officers 
Khc>meini escapes coup attempt 

(AP) Revolutionary guards­men foiled a plot by Iranian army officers to overthrow the Khomeiniregime, and the con­spirators were secretly execut­ed by firing squad, a Kuwait newspaper reported yesrwer­day. 
Word of the alleged plot came after saboteurs reportedly bombed an oil pipeline in what Iranian officials also described as a pro-shah, anti-Khomeini attack. 
Yesterday was the first anni­versary of Shah Mohammad 


Ad rates 
•


mer ease 
An increase in rates for dis­play advertising in the Observer will be effective immediately. The open rate has risen to $3.50 per column inch, while on-campus clubs, student governments and activities from Notre Dame and Saint Mary's will' be charged $3.25 per column inch. Ther will be a ten cent per column inch dis­cout if the advertisement is prepaid. In the past five years, there has been no change in the open rate, while printing and production costs have risen steadily. The possibility of a rate increase for the fall 1980 semester became an immediate certainty when the Observer recieved notice yesterday of a 75 'h increase in the cost of photographic paper used in the typesetttng and headliner machines. The increase is due to the rising cost of silver and other predious m.etals. The advertising and business departments concluded that to maintain a break-even posiron for this semester, higher rates for advertisin were necessary. 
Reza Pahlavi's flight trom lran, and the 74th day in captivity for some 50 American hostages held by Moslem militants at the occupied U.S. Embassy in Tehran. It also was the first fu!J day of a blackout imposed by the Iranian government on 

· American news reporting from Tehran. Outwardly at least, the embassy situation was stale­mated The Iranians again rejected the idea of havein U.N. Secre­tary-General Kurt Waldheim act as a mediatior to try to resolve the U.S-Iranian crisis. ABC News had reported that the airanian Foreign Ministry sent a message to New York saying Waldheim,rebuffed on a mediation mission to Tehran two weeks ago, was now accept­able to Khomeini as an inter­mediary. But Tehran Radio, monitored in London, said later the Foreign Ministry had denied the report as an ''absolute lie.'' A Waldheim spokesman said the U.N. chiefhad received "no official communication on this 
matter.·· But the spokesman 
said W aldheim remains in 
contact with Iran's U.N. 
ambassador, "so he must be 
acceptable'' 
Waldheim has proposed a 
U.N. investigation of the shah's alleged crimes asainst the Iranian J;eople. I raman Foreign Minister Sadegh GHotbzadeh has reacted favorably to the idea as a possible avenue of conciliation. But he still insists the shah must be returned to Iran before the hostages are freed 
Iranians marked the anniver­

sary of Pahlavi' s departure with street decorations, congratula­. tory messages to Khomeini and other celebrations, govern­ment-run Tehran Radio said . 
The report of the coup plot, by the usually reliable Kuwait newspaper AI Rai AI Am, could not be confirmed with officials in Tehran. But ever since the Shahs downfall, the revolution­ary regime has warned repeat­edly of alleged conspiracies to 
(continued on page 2) One of the main reasons for Notre Dame's growth in academics, Fr. john Cavanaugh, died December 28 at the age of80. 


Former N.D. president 
. 
Cavanaugh dies at 80 
Fr. John J. Cavanaugh, the 14th president of Notre Dame academic excellence, died on Dec. 28 in Holy Cross House at the age of 80. 
Cavanaugh became president of the University in 1946, after abandoning a promising career in the automotive industry to study for the priesthood at the age of 27. In his 6-year term, limited by canon law at the time because the president was also religious superior of the Holy Cross community, he concen­trated on upgrading the acade­mic quality of the University and reorganized its administra­
tion  to  meet  the  needs  of  
physical expansion  as  well  as  
educational objectives.  


Concerning registration 
Students express varying views 
by Mary Fran Callahan StaffReporter 
Delayed semester grades, shorter registration lines, and a new procedure for adding and dropping courses, have all ge­nerated varied reactions from students, professors, and ad­ministrators. Of students sur­veyed yesterday, 48 percent found the new registration me­thod to be much simpler and quicker than the previous one. However, 33 percent of the students surveved were dissa­tisfied with the new forms and cards while 19 percent expres­sed indifference. 
Over Christmas break, some students received grades as late 
as January 10. Yesterday,  the  
registrar's  office  blamed  the  
delay  on  the  closure  of  the  

university of 11 days -starting December 21st and extending through January 1 -coupled with professors failing to meet their 48 hour grade deadline after tina! exams. 
Stan Hernandez, personnel assistant, saJd yesterday that although the past month mark­ed the first time that University employees received a vacation over break, administrators made the decision to close the offices for eleven days last May. Hernandez said that no­rice was sent to all university offices and employees of the closure via the May '79 staff newsletter. · 
Of two dozen professors ques­tioned about the 48 hour grad­·,ng period, only three said they 
[contznued on page 7] 
Cavanaugh set ur the Uni­versity's first forma fund-rais­ing office in 1947 and directed its activities for six years follow­ing his retirement as president. As head of Notre Dame he gave high priority to research and advanced studies. He quadru­pled the number of postbacca­laureate students and esta­blished such institutes as Lo­bund Laboratory for germfree animal research and the Med­ievallnstitute. He recruited se­
veral  refugee  scholars  from  
Europe  who  enriched  Notre  
Dame's fa.culty.  

Fr. Theodore M. Hesburgh. who. succec:;ded Cavanat:gh ~s president 10 1952, satd, 'l learned from him to dream of what Notre Dame might yet be. We are still trying to realize the Cavanaugh vision, still travel­ing up the paths he pioneered, the trails he blazed. He was a great human being and a great priest with unusual insight and warmth. I have never had a better or more understanding friend, a surer counselor, a more inspiring model. 
Cavanaugh gained national distinction serving on the fe­deral Hook Commission, on the board of directors for the Ford Foundation's Fund for Adult Education, and as a leader of the nationwide Great Books movement. A close· friend of the Kennedy family, it was he who was summoned to the White House to consok the assassin­
[continued on page 31 






News in brief 
Thursday, January 17, 1980 -page 2 
Held without bail 
Mexico announces plans 
Japanese bust Beatie Paul 
to purchase U.S. grain 

had "brought some hemp for 72 hours, officials said.
WASHINGTON (AP)-Mexico has agreed to buy 2.35 million 
TOKYO (AP) · Former Beatie 
my smoking." Japanese au­A drug-control office spokes­metric tons of corn and wheat that was scheduled to go to the 
Paul McCartney was arrested 
thorities use the term "hemp" man said McCartney wasSoviet Union before President Carter imposed an embargo in 
fc r allegedly trying to smuggle 
for marijuana. charged with possession andretaliation for the Russian move into Afghanistan, admini­
a half-pound of marijuana 
McCartney flew to Tokyo with s_muggling of marijuana -viola­stration officials announced yesterday. Mexice will buy 1. 7 
through customs today as he 
his wife, Linda, four children tions of both Japan's narcoticsmillion metric tons of corn and 650,000 tons of wheat out of 
arrived at Tokyo International 
and members of his singing control law and customs law.
the 17 million tons of wheat and corn shipments which would 
Airport for a Japanese concert 
group to begin an 11-concert If found guilty, officials said,have gone to the Soviet Union before Carter imposed the 
tour, authorities said. The two­
tour, his first in Japan since be he could be sentenced to apartial grain embargo. 
week tour by his group 
visited here with The Beatles 14 maximum of seven years in
"Wings" was canceled as a
, 

years ago, at the height of tl;!e prison and face a fine of up toresult. 
British rock group's worldwide the equivalent of about $2 000.
The officials quoted the 37·
Scientists discover possible 
success. "Wings" had been schecluled
year-old rock star' who was led 
Customs officers said they to give concerts in Tokyo next
away in handcuffs, as saying he 
found 219 grams · 7. 7 ounces · week before going on to Osaka of marijuana in a plastic bag in and Nagoya and then returning
cure for common cold 

one of McCartney's suitcases as to Tokyo for a final series of he passed through the check­conerts ending Feb. 2. The tour BOSTON (AP) -Bacteria have been programmed to produce point at the airport and was spo':lser, the n_ewspaper Y omiu­interferon, a rare drug that can cure viral infections, • • . Coup jailed for the night without bail. nshimbun, sa1d 100,000 tickets including the common cold, and is being tested against He will face a magistrate within had been sold. 
cancer, scientists said yesterday. 

[continued from page 1]
The scientists used techniques of recombinant DN.A engineering to insert a human gene into the genetic material 
bring him back to power.
of a common bacterium. ­

The report said revolutionary
The result is a strain of bacteria that produces interferon, 
REPORTERS:
guardsmen uncovered the plot
the body's natural ftrst line of defense against viral 
by chance when they stopped
infections. 

and searched the car of one of 
the conspirators at a road­IMPORTANT 
block.

Mondale denies questioning 
The newspaper, which quoted 
MEETING

unnamed diplomatic sources, said the plotters were all middle 
patriotism of candidates 
ranking officers and that they had planned to seize control of Tehran and then lay seige to the 
Vice President Walter F. Mondale said yesterday the holy city of qom. Khomeimi's TONIGHT AT 7:00 
presidential candidates should feel free to say ''what they 
headquarters, 100 miles south please,'' even if that means an escalation ofcampaign debate 
of the capital. They expected IN THE OBSERVER OFFICE 
over the Carter administration's handling of the Iranian and 
other Khomeini opponents and Afghanistan crises. Returning to Iowa to drum up support for 
supporters of the shah to join President Carter at the state's precinct caucuses, Mondale 
them, the paper said. was asked about his suggestion that candidates who oppose 
All of the officers were round­Carter's Soviet grain embargo are unpatriotic. "We have 
ed up and secretly executed, it never, ever doubted the right of candidates to say what they 
said. please," the vice president replied. "We are not questioning anyone's patriotism." 
**************** 
Executive discloses bribes 
Buy 
to former GSA head 
II VI 


Observer 
WASHINGTON (.AP) -The former head of quality control for· the General Services .Administration's supply division has been named in federal court testimony as the recipient of at least $12,000 in bribes. The president of .Atlas Paint and 
classifieds 
Varnish Co. oflrving~on, N.J., testified late last year that his firm paid the GS.A official, Roger F. CarrollJr., $500 a month from 1969 to 1971 in an attempt to win GS.A contracts. Carroll 
**************** 
retired from the GS.A last September. In U.S. District Court in Newar'c, N.J., .Atlas Paint president Dennis Te,Pperman said payments to Carroll and two other GS.A officials were 
__.The Observer_ 
paid through attorney .Arthur Lowell to ensure approval of 
the $5 million worth of paint the company sold to the 
Night Editor: Steve Swonk government each year. 
Asst. Night Editor: Deirdre Murphy Copy Editor: Kathy Casey Layout Staff: John Leeuyer News Editor: Mark Rust 
Weather 

Sports Layout: Mark Perry Typists: Beth Huffman, Michelle Kelleher, George
A chance for light rain Thursday with highs in 
Bironthe mid 40s. Cooler Thursday night with snow flurries. Low 

EMT:Paul Selavko 

in the upper 20s to low 30s. Cloudy friday with highs in the 
Proofi"eader:Mark Rust
mid 30s. 

SMC Day Editor: Peggy Schneeman Ad Destgn:Bob Rudy Photographer: Mike Bigley Guest Appearances: Thurs­
CamP-_u_s__ 
day Kruse, Ryan "oh no' now I'm a townie'' Ver Berkmoes 
4 p.m. SEMINAR, "laser spectroscopy of small & large molecular ions,'' dr. t.a. miller, bell labs, CONF. RM. 
The Observer [USPS 591 9201 Is 
published· Monday through Friday IX· 
cept during eum lAd VICitlln perilds. 
The Observer ic publisllld by ttll 
R.A DlATION LAB 

6:30 p.m. MEETING, off-campus council, OFF CAMPUS 
students of Notre Dlllll _. Saint 
ALCOVE 

Miry'& Cllllgl. Sulllcriptila lillY Ill purdlnld for $20 '* Yll' 1111 ,.,
semattrt 1111111 The Ooserver. P.O. blx
6:30p.m. MEETING, leadership training class, sponsored by 
a. Nllrl ll•1111.tlldllu 41551. s..~. 
campus crusade for christ, BULLA SHED 

diU '::l. Plld, Nltrl D
...., 111­dillll . ­6:30p.m. MEETING, alpha phi omega service fraternity, all 
The Observer is 1 llllllllllr If till welcome, LAFORTUNE THEATER 
""--ltld """· All ........
rlflltl ... ,..,.. 



:~; ';1·., ;!,,.. . • ~f....... 

~.·'~~;,.r,r.~.J!.. ,.~.~-.s~~•&'h'•.<l.~t·a~au._._ •• ,.,... ,.,Jo,"co*"'.._,,....., ..... ~~-··•••·•·."-:~•-~ ...................... ,. ....... 
1' 

-
The Observer Thursday, January 17, 1980 -page 3 
Terry discloses payroll check forgery scheme 
by Tom Hay Senior StaffReporter 
A "large quantity" of blank University payroll checks w~re stolen from campus dunng Christmas break, according to Glen Terry, Notre Dame direc-
Building constructic•n begins 
Construction of a $9. 3 million chemical research building has begun at Notre Dame, with completion set for December, 1981. 
The new facility of 106,000 square feet will augment re­search space for chemistry and provide offices, seminar rooms, service shops, and computer terminals. It will be attached to· the east side of Niewland Science Hall, the home of chemistry education since 1952. 
The building will be named Stepan Chemistry Hall in honor of Alfred C. Stepan, founder of Stepan Chemical Company in Northfield, Ill. and an alumnus and trustee emiritus of the 
'"""r•m'·v. The chemical firm 
granted $1. 5 million toward 
construction, and Pew Memori­
al Trust of Philadelphia made 
another major commitment of 
$200,000. 
tor of security. Terry said that twenty-three of the checks, with forged signatures, have turned up so far, involving a consider­able sum of money in total. 
"The checks weren't named yet," said Terry, "only the account number and bank name appeared on the checks." 
The signatures of certain University officials were forged on the checks, which were made payable to three employees of the University. 
"We are satisfies that these employees had nothing to do with the operation," Terry stated. ''Whoever master­minded this used temporary ID cards of the three employees, but they were made up new, apparently from different sources.'' 
From the evidence gathered thus far, Terry determined that the checks were taken from the Computer Center. 
The checks were discovered 
missing on ) an. 17, at which 
time area banks were notified of 
the theft. Twenty-one of the 
checks were passed on that day 
at various First Bank branches. 
The other two turned up a few 
days later at two supermarkets. 
Terry said the University could 
not suffer a loss in the case of 
forgery. 
Terry declined to comment 
on whether there were any 
suspects in the case, but said 
his office is currently working 
with the South Bend and St. 
) oseph County police to inves­
tigate the crime further. Evi­
dence has been turned over to 
the Indiana State Police for 
processing. 


• • • Cavanaugh 
Thiefassaults 

VUcameraman 
By Tom jackman "hit me about three times in 
Senior StaffReporter the forehead with a pretty 
~ood-sized handgun," accord­

A 1978 Notre Dame graduate mg to O'Sullivan. 
WNDU employee was as­0'Sullivan was treated at a saulted and robbed Tuesday local hospital for cuts and night near South Bend A venue bruises inflicted by the pistol, in another of the numerous received approximately 15 incidents which have occurred stitches, and was released. in the immediate vicinity of the O'Sullivan also was robbed of bars frequented by ND stu­his wallet, which he said con­dents. tained only ei~ht dollars and 
John O'Sullivan, 23, was little else of tmportance. He walking along the 700 block of was able to gain a quick glance South Bend A venue just past at his attacker, but could not Corby's when his assailant provide complete identification surprised him from behind, for the South Bend Police. forced him around a cornt:r and Police are still investigating. 
[continued from page 1] 
ated President's widow and to say the first requiem mass. Informed of Cavanaugh's death, Sen. Edward Kennedy said, "He was one of my father's closest friends. For all of us he was one of the wisest and kindest of counselors.'' 
Born in Owosso, Mich., Cava(laugh received a bache­lor's aegree in commerce from Notre Dame in 1923 and an 
M.A. in English in 1927. After his first degree, he worked for the Studebaker Corporation, rising to the position of assis­tant advertising manager be­fore resigning to enter the Holy Cross novitiate in 1926. He was ordained in 1931 and studied philosophy in Rome for two years before returning to Notre Dame as prefect of religion, in which position he served until he became assistant provincial for the Congregation of Holy Cross in 1938. 
Appointed vice president of Notre Dame and chairman of its faculty board in control of athletics in 1940, he assisted Fr. ) . Hugh O'Donnell in administering the University in the difficult days during World War II and succeeded him in 1946. 
After leaving the/residency, Cavanaugh directe the public relations and development ef­fort of the University and served in campus religious mmtstry at Notre Dame and a funeral mass in Sacred Heart neighboring Saint Mary's be­Church. He is survived by his · fore his retirement. brother Francis who is also a 
Cavanau~h was buried on Ho~y Cross priest living in Dec. 31 m the Community rettrement at Holy Cross Cemetery on campus following House. 
THE OBSERVER·· needs 'advertising salespeople 

-

no experienceneeded ....liberal commissions ....unlimited opportu 



For more information contact Mike Holsinger, assistant ad manager, at 7471 

--------·-·------·---­

The Observer Thursday, January 17, 1980 -page 4 
ND Alurnni Board to meet w-ith students 
by Mary Fran Callahan chance to rap with the stu­StaffReporter dents," Murphy explained. HPC considers the meeting to 
S_tudents will ~ave the oppor­be an excellent opportunity for tumty to meet wnh members of students to discuss their views the Universitv Alumni Board with an influential governing
tonight in both Walsh and body.Flanner Hall. The Hall Presi­Members of the alumni board dent~' Council will sponsor the meet only three times annually, meeting. and its agenda is always packed 
Madeline Darrouzet, Presi­with events. ''This is the one dent of Farley Hall noted that time that alumni have free time "Alumni have quite a bit of scheduled to listen to and meet influence in the University's with the students,'' Murphy affairs. They do present propo­said. The HPC will publicize the sals.' 'The HPC hopes that stu­meeting in all the dorms. dents will voice their opinions Murphy added that refresh­on campus issues and policies, ments will be served at the air their ~ripes, and question meenngs. the alumm. The thirteen-member com­According to Maureen Murphy, mittee will be divided between 
project chairperson, the thir­Walsh and Flanner Halls, a teen-member board enjoys matter of convenience for north 
meeting the students. ''The and south quad residents. 
students learned quite a bit by Rosemary Abowd, who is in­
talking to the alumni last year, volved with the project, ex­
and the alumni enjoy the plained that in the past the 
alumni spoke in individual 
do~ms. The new approach is an 
effort to concentrate the speak­
ers to encourage larger audi­
ences. 

A basketball game coupled
Pinto trial begins in Winemac with a winter storm resulted in a lower than expected turnout 
for last year's meetings. How­
By Zenon Bzdzinski alcohol. Miller showed a video tiCS. lawyers, public relations people ever, HPC hopes the publicityU"INE.\1AC Ind. The mother tape of the accident scene as it Consequently, the Elkhart and other officials in Winemac. 
of two vic rims burned to death was filmed for his TV news prosecutor continued to To assist and prepare its legal ·campaign will encourage more students to attend. "These
when their Ford Pinto was show. challenge the ruling at every stafffor what's expected to be a 
rear-ended in Elkhart County in Earlier in the morning, Ford opportunity possible, two month trial, Ford has also alumni are illustrious members of their respective communities 
August, 1978, told a jury here defense attorney James Neal, a attempting to force Judge leased an old restaurant, and really want to help thevesterdav she and her husband former Watergate prosecutor, Staffeldt to narrow what he, converting it into a well-fur­
received notification of a moved to keep Ulnch off the Cosentino, said he feels is its nished law office and library. students," Murphy concluded. 
possible defect in the car some stand completely, ambiguo-us scope . Ford's main concern over the 
six monrhs after the accident. claiming there was nothing she The charge Ford is facing outcome of the criminal 
The warning arrived, she said, could contribute toward proving stems from a two-year old prosecution is with its effect 
in a letter from Ford Motor the issues in dispute. The judge Indiana statute allowing corpor­on some 50 pending civil cases Gold rush 
Company to her husband in denied the motion, explaining ations to be tried in a criminal filed as a result of gas-tank 
February 1979, and there was that it was not the job of the action for reckless homicide. explosions which occurred be­no warning prior to the August court to say who the Prosecu­The trial marks the first action fore Ford issued its 1978 recall 
aids U.S., 

10 , 1978 date of the accident. tion could and could not call. of its kind against an of 1. 5 million 1971-76 Pintos automaker, and thus the use by
The statments of Maddie Neal wants the case to focus and 1975-76 Mercury Bobcats. 
Ulrich, mother of Judy and on the issues of Ford's reckless--the national press of the Ford does not want a repeat of a Soviets 

"David and Goliath" analogy. recent California decision The new and unique nature of awarding $127 million, later WASHINGTON (AP) -Boththe proceeding can be expected reduced to $6 million, to a the Soviet Union and the United to be precedent setting. teenager severely burned in a States will benefit from soaringStaffeldt said yesterday, before Pinto fire. 
gold frices, official and un­any the witnesses were called, The first motions of the case 
that he suspects, "We'll make officia sources said yesterday
were heard last fall and result­
adding that individual Ameri­some new law.'' With that he ed in the trial being venued cans should not be hurt by the
ended speculation and from Elkhart to Winemac spectacular price surge.
immediately announced that because of adverse publicity in The greatest danger to Ameri­
corporations, unlike real 
Elkhart County. Proceedings in 
cans would occur if the risingpersons, do not have 5th 
the trial began Monday, Jan. 7. 
price of gold pushed down theamendment rights. The judge 
Selecting the jury of seven 
value of the dollar, which couldexplained that corporations men and five women, with worsen inflation. Although thiscould admit or state anything it three male alternates, filled the happened in 1978 and part ofliked, and thus the company 
court's first four-day week. 
1979, the dollar hasn't budgedcould admit to the medical 
Motions to limit evidence were 
at all in recent months.
cause of death and thereby then heard on Monday and half "!don't see any evidence of aforeclose the prosecution from of Tuesday. 
flight from the dollar. The
introducing ''gruesome'' 
In what was considered a 
dollar has been incredibly
pictures of the victims' inciner­crucial motion decided in the stable. "says Robert Solomon, aated bodies. In cases cited by 
prosecutions favor, Judge 
Brookings Institution economist Cosentino to oppose such a Staffeldt denied Neal's request who specializes in monetaryforeclosure,'' human'' defen­
that the jury be limited to 
issues. This view is echoed bydants were not allowed to keep 
employing 1977 government
out gruesome pictures by official sources, who did not
standards when determining
simply admitting to the medical the amount of force the Pinto want to be quoted. 
One said that whereas the
cause of the death, but those to on
was required withstand 

rising price of gold in earliercases were held to be not impact. The 1977 National months reflected in part a lack
applicable here. 
Highway Traffic Safety Admin­
of conficence in the U.S. dollar,To obtain a ~uilty verdict istration (NHTSA) regulations the .recent price surge, comingunder the Indtana statute, 
called for autos to be able to 
against the background ofwide­Cosentino must prove, beyond 
withstand a 30 mph rear end 
spread turmoil in the world,a reasonable doubt, that Ford 
collision. Since there no 
1)recklessly designed and reflects a loss of confidence in
standards in effect in 1973,
manufactured the 1973 Pinto; all currencies.
however, as Cosentino pointed
2)permitted the auto to remain The U.S. government has
out, the Court ruled that the 
retreated to the sidelines
on U.S. highways, in as 
jury was free to determine their 
during the current wild upwardunrepaired state, while being own acceptable standards. 
price spiral that took gold toaware of the autos inherent Opening statements by both $765 per ounce on Wednesday,dangers; and 3)caused the sides were given Tuesday after­an increase of $50 in a singledeaths of the three victims by noon. There Cosentino day.
such reckless disregard and repeated his theme that Ford The price of gold has more
failure to repair. ''sacrificed human life for 
than doubled since the lastA guilty verdtct would cos~ profit.'' Neal emphasized that 
Treasury Department gold
Ford $30,000, a mere trifle Ford was a leader in auto safety auction on Nov. 1, when goldcompared to what it is costing and that the 1973 Pinto met all · sold for $372 an ounce.
the company to retain the services of two outside law 
firms and its {continued on page 6] {continued on page6]
house staff 
Lynn Ulrich, 18 and 16, respec­tively at the times of their deaths, came late in the after­noon of the first day of testi­mony in the highly publicized Ford Pinro trial. In her brief ten minute testimony, Ulrich also told the jury, over an objection from the defense, that the reason they purchased the Pinto was because"it saved gas and was American made.'' Mrs. Ulrich's testimony followed that of investigating officer Neil Graves, and Reginald Miller, anchorman for WSJV-TV, Elkarr. Graves identified photos of the accident scene and described the re­mains of the 1973 Pinto and the Chevy van that rear-ended it. H<: also testified to finding two half full bottles of beer and 5 grams of marijuana in the van. The marijuana, the officer said, was not enough to make one 1oint, and he added that the van driv<:r's blood rests showed absolutely no trace of any blood 

ness and the cause of the gas tank explosion. To limit the evidence to thoseissues, he stipulated for the first time, Tuesday, that the three girls were killed by fire, and not other causes, thus persuading Pulaski County Circuit Judge Harold Staffeldr to grant his motion excluding all evidence relating to the girls' injuries or medical causes of death. The ruling barred Elkhart Prosecu­tor Michael Cosentino from introducing any of what Neal call·~ ,the ''g.rotesque and grue­some testimony or photo­graphs often admitted in criminal homicide trials to prove the extent of injuries and manner of death. 
Visibly upset with the ruling, which he repeatedly claimed was contrary to Indiana law, Cosentinotold the judge that the holding would necessarily "sanitize the trial" and reduce the status of the victims from human beings to mere statis­

SMC Little Tbutre Sua. U Mon. .Jan. zo U u '71S0·9:50JIIII 

The Observer Thursday, JanUary 17, 1980 -page 5 
Investment 
shifts 
to me~tals 
by}OHN CUNNIFF 
AP Business Ana/.yst 
NEW YORK (AP) -The stock boom of the 1960s was often spurred by the slogan, "It's smart to own a piece of Ameri­ca.'' Ownership of stock, it was said, meant you were sharing in the economy's bounty. 
That was back then when people had more trust in sur­ro~ate money, when they had fatth that paper always would be acceptable as a medium of exchange, when they believed that economic institutions were permanent. 
Faith hasn't vanished, but it has diminished. When you speak today of owning a piece of America you may be talking of the real thing, about real estate, oil, metals, trees. These seem to be the new collectibles, just as diamonds, art and stamps were earlier. 
It might all pass. Stampedes make a great roar coming but they leave in a cloud also, especially if detente between , the great powers is resumed. But for now, it's here. 
Each day the newspapers do­cument it. Gold, silver, plati­num and copper are hoarded by. those who hold or trade them. The active stocks are often those of natural resource corri­pames. 
Such buyers cannot consume rheir purchases. Because their gold is locked in a vault they cannot, for instance. admire it. They cannot make other pro­ducts from it because they have no facility to do it. 
for them. metal is money. 
And so are other natural resources. When people sus­pect paper money, created as a substitute because desirable (limited) natural resources are too cumbersome to handle, they tend to return to the real thing. 
And what causes today's sus­picions? The threat of war, the rnstability of governments, in­flation, and a fear that the old economic order is being upset before anyone has a notion of what will replace it. 
And so the retreat to basics. Gold, which was "demonetiz­ed" or, as we thought, set adrift from currencies so that it could operate as just another commodity, is reasserting itself as money. So are real estate and other natural resources ­the real thing rather than substitutes. 
Many collectors of natural resources do not even consider themselves investors so much as escapees. 
They do not view holdings as soaring in value but instead view mone)' as losing value. The value of natural resources, they say, aren't rising in value 
--as-swiftly as currency in declin­ing. The mirage arises, they say, from denominating values in terms of currency. When the stampede will end cannot be foreseen, but some analysts claim they see a slow­down, a correction, a retreat that might, however, be only temporary. 
The reason, they say, is that an initial quest for security by some wealthy individuals, banks and governments, has attracted investors, then specu­lators, then gamblers, and now, 
·most likely, the uninformed. 
• ** 
•* •••••••• :
Observer needs typists.
* * 
• Call Kim at 8122 or 8661. *
*

* * •.. * 
*

* ********** •*
* ,.. The Observer Needs You! 
Layout Positions Available! 
• 
No expertence Necessary 

• 
Good chance for advancement 


Sunday, Tuesda_y, or Thursday night positions 
• Call John at 8661• 
~ ~ 
1VCTBV~ ~ H~y~Hy~ qnry8 
COO~WeH~~V KO~~OHABTO. if <lf;~~~l~lt.bH 0 ~ v0l : ,_,_Jl:i;,(!VR: <~ !1.'1B.l]"eHHe ·:~. 


y!M.:
:: r-:.. ~ ,, 
.,,.•.rl. 

1;: 0 
0! -r,' 

""'" !flv·
11._
/ ......_ 
If you can easily read the above lines, you may have the kind of language talent that the National Security Agency needs. Opportunities now exist for candidates skilled in the languages shown, pius certain other unusual foreign languages as well. Those selected will be able to make valuable contributions 
in the production of national defense intelligence. • The National Security Agency offers a variety of challenjing assignments for language majors ... translation, transcription, area research projects, to name a few, Newly·hired linguists 
receive advanced training in their primary languages and can plan on many years of continued professional growth. Intellectual challenge is part of NSA's language, too ... plus attractive surroundings in our suburban Maryland headquarters. Salaries start at the GS-7 level for BA degree graduates, plus all the usual benefits ol: Federal employment. U. S. citizenship is required. Schedule an NSA interview through your College Placement Office. Or call us collect at (301f 796-6161. Mr. Bernard Norvell, College Recruitment Manager, will be happy to talk with you. 
NATIONAL SECURITY AGENCY Attn: M32R Fort George G. Meade, Maryland 20755 An Equal Opportunity Employer m/f 
.,1 
1 1 j 1 1 I 
1 1 
1 1 
1 
~~ 
Y( 
~J. ... 
..
4-t f \" 


-------~-­
The Observer Thursday, January 17, 1980 -page 6 

Study shows 

Marijuana may decrease fertility 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Smoking panel, said the subcommittee Dr. Ethel N. Sassenrath of the University of California, said
marijuana may cause tempora­should re-evaluate legislation that in her research on mon­ry infertility among women of drafted last year that would keys, 40 percent of the p~eg­child-bearing age and could soften the federal renalties for nant animals inhaling mariJua­increase the danger that they pos~~ssion of smal amounts of na had miscarriages, comparee! 
will have miscarriages, medical manJuana. 
to 10 percent of those that were

researchers told a congressio­Mathias said the measure nal panel yesterday. must be reconsidered ''in the not exposed to th~ smoke: 
She said the evtdence ts notBut the researchers testifying light of current assessment of final on what effects the mari­before the Senate Judiciary the dangers to public health." 

juana had on monkeys ~xposedsubcommittee on criminal jus­The bill is pending before the before birth to mariJuanatice agreed for the most part Senate. that insufficient data has been Rosenkrantz said he drew his smoke. gathered to determine the risk conclusions on the effects of of physical or mental damage to marijuana from I aboratory infants born to women who experiments on mice, rats and smoke marijuana. rabbits. He said there was a 

e 
Gold

Dr, Harris Rosenkrantz, direc­higher incidence of fetal death • • tor of the Mason Research when the mother was exposed Institute in Worcester, Mass., to marijuana smoke. 
[continued from page 4]

said women who smoke mari­juana "play Russian Roulette" with the lives of their unborn Gold traders satd the btg babies. Gabriel increase in price Wednesday 
"I think there is a potential was due largely to a statement hazard, especially in the early by Treasury Secretary G. days of gestation'' said Rosen­William Miller on Tuesday that krantz. "If you smoke marijua­to research it wasn't "appropriate" for the na you're not going to have a government to auction its gold deformed baby -but you may under current conditions. lose the baby you actually Solomon said in an interview
Paris colleges 
want.'' Wednesday that gold prices are Sen. Charles McC. Mathias, risin~ primarilY. because of R-Md., chairman of the Senate Astrik L. Gabriel, professor polittcal and military develop­
ments in the Middle East.

emeritus of medieval studies at Notre Dame, will be a member The opinion is widely held that of the Institute for Advanced much of the gold orders
Billy, Bert a Co. Study, Princeton, N.J., during originate from the oil-rich the second term of the current nauons of the Middle East, academic year. such as Kuwait, Saudi Arabia 
Gabriel, who is director of the and Iran. 
Folsom Ambrosiana Microfilm WASHINGTON (AP) -) immy his warehouse operation. banking activities forced him to and Photographic Collection at Carter's reputation for personal Billy's visits to Libya -and quit as Carter's top budget the University, will be working integrity has remained virtually visits to him in Georgia by manager during the first year of on an iconographical index to unblemished during his three Libyan officials -raised ques­Carter's term. He was indicted the collection, a project of the 
Past continues to haunt Carter 
• • • Pinto 

years in office, but his re-elec­tions about the president's last May on 22 counts of Samuel H. Kress Foundation, tion effort could suffer from brother being friendly with a conspiracy, misapplication of using the facilities of the Index publicity regarding Bert Lance, • noation not too friendly with the National Bank of Georgia funds of Christian Art in Princeton. A [continued from page 4] Hamilton Jordan and his broth­United States. Now that a and falsifying personal financial specialist in the history of er Billy. Libyan mob has stormed the statements and bank records­medieval education, he will also industry standards and was as 
Carter hired Bert Lance, his U.S. Embassy in Tripoli, those The indictment charges Lance do research on a book dealing safe, if not safer, than banker from Georgia, as direct­questions may be raised anew. continues his allegedly illegal with the history of Paris col­comparable subcompacts. or of the Office of Management As for the president himself, activities even after taking of­leges at the medieval Universi­Neal also divulged, for the and Budget. When Lance's past the worst that has been proven fice as head of OMB. ty of Paris. first time, that he hoped to banking pOractices were called of him is that the reanut Lance pleaded innocent and Gabriel was a member of the introduce into evidence movies into question, Carter read a business underpaid loca prop­called the charges "ridicu­Institute's School of Historical of crash tests conducted on preliminary report on Lance's erty taxes -an altogether lous." But whatever the out­Studies in 1950-51. He is the numerous cars just for this trial. banking activtties and said, common practice -and that come of his trial, it is sure to former director of Notre Cosentino listened carefully, ''Bert, I am proud of you.'' Carter may have hastened the produce many days of court­Dame's Medieval Institute, a and when leaving the court· 
Now, Lance is going to trial firing of a federal prosecutor, room testimony about Lance's fellow of the Medieval Acade­room after Neals opening state­on charges of banking conspira­David Narston, at the urging of banking activiues. That in turn my of America and a corres­ment, he admitted to reporters cy. Democratic Rep. ) oshua Eil­will keep alive all the old ponding member of the French that the one thing that surpris­
Meanwhile, a special prose­berg, who was about to be questions about Carter's judg­and Bavarian Academies of ed even him was the ''awe­
cutor is settins up shop in New indicted at the time. ment in picking such a man be Science. someness of Ford's case." York to investtgate the claim of Despite Marston's dismissal, the government's chief budget two tax-evading disco owners Eilberg was prosecuted and officer. 
that Hamilton Jordan had pleaded guilty to conflict of ) ordan is far from facing snorted coG' ine m a visit to mterest charges. He was fined indictment, if not for the stric­Studio 54 in New York. $10,000, sentenced to 3 to 5 tures of a new Ethics in 
There may also be lingering years probation and barred Government Act, the investiga­carnage from the publicity gen­from holking federal office. And tion of him would likely have erated by Billy Carter's mis­Carter paid $1,44 3 in added been dropped by now. management of the family pea­property taxes and interst after But a special prosecutor, 
nut business and the fruitless a reassessment prompted by a Arthur H. Christy, has been 
investigation of it by special news report that suggested the named to study the claims of 
counsel Paul Curran, along with business had underpaid taxes Stene Rubel! and Ian Schrager, Billy's dealings with Libyan by several times that amount. owners of Studio 54, that ) or­government officials. To reporters who cover his dan inhaled cocaine in the Curran's probe was prompt­daily activities, Carter appears disco's basement on June 27, 
ed by lingering suspicions that as a Bible-reading moralist, a 1978. Carter financed his 1976 cam­sober and faithful hisband, and The two first told their story, paign in part by illegally sip­a man who is honest to the later changing some details, 
honing off bank loans from point m being dull. There are while facing charges of evading Lance to the peanut business. no mcidents even remotely federal income taxes on more The so-called "Peanutgate" resembling Chappaquiddick in than $1 million skimes from the 
affair brought out that Billy did Caner's past. disco. They pleaded guilty Nov­a bad job managing the ware­But questions continue to 2 and could be sentenced to house operation, but Curran, a swirl around his associates, prison terms of up to 10 years Republican, said he traced "ev­Lance and)ordan, men Carter each. 
erv nickel and every peanut" chose to be among the most The Christy investigation will and found no evidence of illegal powerful in government. 
[continued on page 9)
activity by President Carter or Publicity over Lance's past 

, r r,, ,  _'fhe Observer_ Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 The Observer is an independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du lac an.:f Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the  administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and as objectively as possible. Editorials represent the opimon of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, opm10ns and letters are the views of their authors. Column space is avail­able to all members of the community, and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged.  Editorial Board and Department Managers Edttor·rn-chzef ....... .Rosemary Mills Sports Editor .................. Mark Perry Managing Edztor..........Diane Wilson Features Editor .... .Kathleen Connelly Edt tonal Editor.............. Ann Gales Photo Editor ............ -.Doug Christian Senior Copy Editor ....... .. M. Onufrak Business Manager ....... .Steve OdlandExecutive News Editor ...... Mike Lewis Production Manager .... ) ohn McGrathNews Editor .................... Mark Rust News Editor ........ ......... Mike Shields Advertist-ng Manager_ ........Bob Rudy SMC Executive Editor ... .. Ellen Buddy Controller.............. ....Kevin Manion Circulation Manager .... ..Greg HedgesSMC News Editor ....... .Margie Brassil  
r  

The Observer Thursday, January 17, 1980 -page 7 
[continued from page 1) 
found the time period to be sufficient for grading finals. Some said it forced them to give short answer or objective tests whic~ they would have rather not gtven. 
However, assistant registrar David Ril saw no problem with the restriction. "They generally try to accomodate our requests; they can get them (grades) in," he said. 
Waiting time in lines ar the registrar's office yesterday va­ried from three to twenty minutes. Comments ranged from ''It is so much simpler; I zipped in and out of regis~ra­tion," to "It's like changmg horses in the middle of the stream. Seniors do not need to sit down with advisors. They know what they need to take.'' 
Though students generally 
admitted that the past semes­
ter's preregistration had cut 
lines greatly, many who did not 
• • • Registration 
drop/ add deadline nears. 

One of the forms used for dropping and adding did not contain any instructions on how it should have been filled out. Some students waited in line only to discover when they reached the desks that they had not completed the form correct­ly. They then had to fill out the form again and get back in line. ''Everybody seems to be gues­
sing  about  this  form."  one  
student said.  
"We  instructed  the  depart­ 

mental offices about the forms,'' Kil said. ''Common sense would dictate that the places giving the forms out should explain to the students the correct way to fill them out," he added. 
Kit also claimed that the scan tron computer form now used for adding and dropping cour­ses is much simpler than the old card system. "These forms are not foreign. Everyone has taken SAT's," Kil said. 

receive their desired courses blamed the new card procedure as the cause of the problem. 
"Even though I used to stand in long lines, I still had a chance at getting the courses I wanted. Now with the cards, there is no way -unless you get that card,'' one student commented. 
Of the 33 percent who showed negative reactions, liberal _arts majors in particular complat_ned of not receiving their desired courses. Responding to student comments that the cards make it more difficult for students to get their courses, Ril explained, "It wasn't that students got bumped out; they simply didn't get in. We are trying to offset oversubscription to courses.'' Kil further indicated that the demand for checkmarked courses will be noted next semester when class sections are being formulated. . 
After being confronted with a 
battery of cards and forms, one 
studem said, ''There may be 
less _paper work for the ~dmini­
strauon, but there sure IS a lot 
more for the students.'' 
A secretary in the registrar's 
office said she could not yet tell 
if more courses were being 
dropped and added as a result 
of the new methods and forms. 
She explained that the bulk of 
the schedule changes does not 
appear until next week as the 
••• Dorms 
[continued from page 1] 
hired to maintain a twenty-four hour watch on the dorms, and the same officer was asssigned to both Farley and Breen-Phil­lips.
A special key was also -appa­rently used in the theft of two stereo systems frQJll the fourth floor ofFlanner Hall. According to one of the residents of the suite, "a Village People album, a screwdriver, and a key were left on the desk in one of the rooms." The student said that none of the items belonged to anyone in the suite. 
''The key was like the one used over the summer by managers and football play­ers " he said. "It had a green tab: on it th~t .~ays 'Drop in any matlbox.... 
Although the student reported 
the thefts on Tuesday, Terry 
did not mention the incident 
when questioned Wednesday 
about the break-ins. The Vil­
lage People album was being 
tested for fingerprints when the 
interview took place. 
How to impress your date, satisfy your appetite, and save a . few bucks 
(all in one night.) 
Treat her-or him-to any one of our nationally-famous specialties listed below in our money-saving coupons. Because, even when the money's a little tight, you deserve the best. 

when you present th.J.~ coupon at any participating ~ulh Bend area Pizza Hu~A I when you present this coupon at any participating Sout~ Bend area Pizza Hu;' II restauranL Enjoy two large spagheni dinners wnh meat ~uce and garhc restaurant._ Offer .mcludes one small two-loppmg Thm n Cnsp~ or Th1ck_ n bread and two salads Beverage notmcluded. Coupon good m-store or carry-ChewY"" piZza with SuperStyle toppmg, and two salads Beverage not m-out Offer good through January 24. Cash redemption value 1120 cent. eluded. Good in-store or carry-out. Offer good January 25 through January~ 
...Ca;;mp;;lue;;ent----..,
t ­

SANDWICHANDSALAD~ $2 OFF ~e ~ 
I DINNER FOR TWO '-kxP 1 ~ I I $4 • 99 ;out. I $} 0 FF :::.U":',,., . ~ I 
Thin 'n Crispy® or Thick 'n Chewy®
I · s· m · I
when vou present thi; coupon at any panicipating South Bend area Pizza Hut' piZZa Or DeW IC 3D pan piZZa 
restaur.aul. Offer includes your choice of two halves of our big delcious sand-_ . . . • . . . Pizza H -•
I 

wiche~ and two ~lads. Beverage not included. Coupon good in-swre only. when you pre.sent th1s t:oupon at any. paruapaung Ul-restaurant. Offer good Februarv I through Februar\' 7. Cash redemption value 1/20 cent. ~ueverage not mduded. Coupon good m-sto:rc or carry-out. Offer good Feb-J
I
1.. -------....ary~ugh;;ary ;;br;;uon.;112;; ­
1738 Lincoln Way, 288-6060 1725 S. Michigan, 287-0167 3624 McKinley Ave., 28&-8990 502 N. Michigan, 282-2543 2307 E. Edison, 233-3827 52850 U.S. 31N, 277-2121 5113 W. Western Ave., 234-5155 
.... 
·-.. 

The Observer 11uirsday, january 17, 1980 -page 8 

Workers begin construction on new dorms. [Photo by Mike Bigley] 
School tries new approach to handle problem· students 
<OLUMBUS, Ohio (AP)­GJVmg up on the paddle and other traditional means of pun­ishment, school officials in nearby Groveport plan to begin isolating habttual trouble­makers in restrictive class­rooms. 
Problem students in the Groveport-Madison School Dis­trict will be separated from classmates and required not only to complete class work, but also to wnte a plan on how to change behavior. 
'It's an attempt to provide a more workable disciplinary policy for students," Super­mtendent L. Neil ) ohnson said yesterday.' Suspending students doesn't seem to be effective." 
) ohnson said students often consider it a reward to be suspended and sent home. In addition, he said, not only do 


When you're working in a specialized field, you need a specialized calculator. That's why Texas Instruments designed the Slim.line Business Analyst-II'" for busi­ness ann finance ... and the Slimline TI­50'" for science and math. Each provides the tailored power and the reliability you'll need as you learn to solve the problems you'll face as a professional. And each has a price you'll appreciate as a student. 
Slimline Business Analyst-H. 
Sleek LCD calculator with versatile 
business capabilities. 
Solving financial problems with the Slimline Business Analyst-11 can make working with your old calculator seem like pencil-and-paper arithmetic. The functions required to perform many common busi­ness, financial and statistical calculations are built in to help you make quick, accurate evaluations of many complex business situations. 
Special financial keys are used to handle time and money problems such as com­pound interest, annui-W '"'Offk"' ty payments, mortgage ~=..,.,
L loans, investment yields, ~"' amortization schedules :=; 
and more. -"""" 

Statistical and linear regression capabili­ties provide the power you'll need to bod down data and automatically handle prob­lems such as sales and earnings forecasts. 
Profit margin calculations concerning cost, selling price and margin can be per­formed rapidly when any two of the varia­bles are known. Other features include a four-function data register with Constant Memory'" feature that retains its contents even when the calculator is turned off. 1\vo miniature batteries provide up to two years of operation in normal use. And TI's APD "' automatic power down feature helps pre­vent accidental battery drain. 
The Business Analyst-ll, with detailed owner's manual and suede-look vinyl wallet with pockets for notes, $45.00*. 
The Slimline '1'1-50 packs 60 power­ful functions into a handsome, compact package. 
I· The pocket-portabt~'Slimline Tl-50 is are­markably powerful LCD slide-rule calcula­tor. Yet it's as thin as a pencil and weighs only three ounces! 
Its 60 versatile functions can help you handle a wide range of college math prob­lems. Capabilities include common and 
Texas Instruments technology.:_ bringing affordable electronics to your fingertips. 
TEXAS INSTRUMENTS 
·u.s. sugg~ted rera•l pnce 

@ 19ho loualnatrumentalncorporattd INCORPORATED 
... 

natural logarithms. Six trigonomPtric oper­ations that can be performe<l in three angu­lar modes (deg-rees, rartians or grads). 1\vo constant memories that retain their con­tents even when the calcnlcrloris turned off. And more. 
Seven built-in statif:ltical functions sim­plify the task of boiling down large sets of data points so you can perform accurate analyses and draw reliable conclusions. 
The power of the Slimline TI-50 is made easy to use by Tl's AOS •• algebraic operat­ing system, which provides 15 sets of pa­rentheses and accepts up to four pending operations. That means you can enter most problems just as they're written, left to right. 
1\vo miniature batteries provide up to two years of normal operation. And Tl's APD "' automatic power down feature helps prevent accidental battery drain. 
The S/imline Tl-50 includes a detailed owner's manual and a durable vinvl wallet, $40.00*. . 
Make sure your next calculator ha..o;; the 
specialized power to handle the problems unique to your ml\ior. See the Business Ana­lyst-ll and the Slim.line TI-50 at your college bookstore or other TI dealer today. 
Fifty Years 
ln~ation 
4P 
45684-A 

suspended students run the risk oflosing class credit, the exper­ience could make them lose interest in education. 
"The new policy will affect grades 6 through 12--about 3,500 students" and will begin in)anuary, he said. A total of 6,400 students are enrolled in the school district, on the outskirts of Columbus. 
Students assigned to the special classroom will work at separate cubicle-style desks. They'II be deprived of several privileges such as eating lunch with classmates and won't be permitted to participate m extracurricular activities. 
The minimum "sentence" will be three days, but school officials expect the average stay to be about five days. 
In approving the program last week, the board of edu­cation also adopted more restrictiye and detailed guide­lines on corporal punishment. The board agreed that paddling should be used only as a last resort before suspension or expulsion. 
The princifal apparently will have the fina word on just what type of offenders could be assigned to the special class­room. Students who are not necessarily classified as habitual offenders could be included. 
''A student caught smoking in rhe restroom, or fighting, or somebody who has been truant for several days. It depends on rhe severity (of the offense). One offense would qualify,'' said Johnson. . 
"We're sparing the rod. but adding more discipline.'' he said. 
The program does run a risk of alienating some punished students, Johnson said, but he believes tt' s better than just forgetting about them until rhetr suspensions are over. 
He and other school officials hope the program will also reverse the district's dropout rate. During the past four years, the rate has been 10 percent to 15 percent higher than the national average. 
A search is under way for a teacher to monitor the special classroom. Asked what qualif­ications were necessary, ) ohnson said he was looking for a "superman" who would be able to use both strength and empathy in dealing with the students assigned to the class­room. 
Women start support 
groups 
The Notre Dame Women's Organization is forming support groups open to faculty and students. The groups will be similar to the consciousness­raising ~roups that arose out of the fenunist movement. They are leaderless groups com­prised of six to ten members who meet each week for an hour and a half to share their experiences as women. 
Anyone interested in signing up for a group may call 6729, 3714, or 3848 before Friday, Jan. 25. Men who would like to 
form a. group may call.  If the  
number is suffictent,  a  group  
can be started.  


_______________·-····_···--­
---·-----....-· 

The Observer Thursday, January 17, 1980 -page 9 
............. -.-... _____....,._. ___ 
---···---.. ~---·-------._ ___ .., __ .. n.,._-&.'0'' 
.. -.· --·--·. 


Unseasonably warm weather allows this student to walk on a curb that would normally be bun.ed tn snow dnfts. [Photo by Mike Bzgley] 
New' report terms abuse of elderly problem. 'serious' 
While child abuse and wife beating have drawn consider­able attention, another serious family problem -battered grandparents-has gone mostly unnoticed, a research says. 
Abuse of the elderly may be as severe as child abuse, said Marilyn R. Block, a researcher for the University of Mary­l<t-nd's Center on Aging. 
"It's sort of at the stage that child abuse was 20 years ago. People are horrified at the notion," said Ms. Block, who conducted a one-year, federally funded study of the elderly. 
Most of the abuse was psycho­logical rather than physical, Ms. Block said she found. And, although the elderly were more likely to seek help than mem­bers of other abused groups, they were usually unsuccessful in getting help. · 
Most physical abuse involved neglect and blows resulting in welts and bruises rather .than bone fractures. 
"It seems to be slapping, shoving and shaking rather than being hit with a fist,'' she said. 
She added, however, the study did uncover some cases of beatings, fractured skulls and bones and being tied to a bed or chair. 
Psychological abuse centered on verbal assaults, threats and fear. She also said some elderly people are isolated while their money and property is being stolen or misused by their children. 
Other elderly persons are de­nied medication, treatment, ey~glasses and false teeth, she said. 
Ms. Block noted there are questions s.till to be answered, such as how many of the abused parents had abused their child­ren and how many deaths result from abuse of the elderly. 
She said abuse of the elderly can be harder to identify be­
cause semor ouzens are not as visible to the public. 
''If an elder stays in the house for a year, who's going to notice?" she said. "It makes it easier to ignore the problem." 
''To be old is to be a burden, ro be senile, to be useless. Most Americans don't like old people, don't want to be around them and they don't want to be bothered with them," she said. 
She added that an adult off­spring caring for a sick parent or grandparent expects the patient to be strong and when that's not true, the elder is "punished... for not 'behaving properly.''' 
Ms. Block's study, conducted with a $100,000 grant from the Federal Administration on Ag­ing, showed the typical abuser of the elderly was white, mid­dle-aged, middle-class, female and Protestant. In addition, the abusers were most frequently adult children of the abused. 
The victims, with an average age of 34 years and in poor health, were generally white, physically disabled, female, Protestant and lower-class to middle-class. 
• • Carter
• -----------­
[continued from page 6] 
require sworn testimony form Jordan, his accusers, and prob­ably Carter campaign aides Timothy Kraft and Evan Do­belle, who said they were at Studio 54 with ] ordan at the time but saw no cocaine use. 
Even if]ordan is cleared, the probe will produce publicity that will have many voters across the nation questioning what Carter's top aide was doing in a joint like Studio 54 in the first place. 
Interest rates rise • 
Mortgages eat up income 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Only a interest rates to homebuilders al housing assistance. 
"privileged few" ca,n afford to exceed 16 percent in most Janis said many young adults buy a new home today, as 
places. will be forced to rent for yearspeople are squeezed by record­The government reported to come, while others will move 
high mortgage rates and rising yesterday that housing costs back to their parents' homes. 
prices, the chairman of the rose in October at the steepest But he defended the Federal Federal Home Loan Bank Board rate since 1947, and the worst is Reserve Board's "calculated said yesterday. 
yet to come, many economists risk" in raising interest rates,JayJanis said only 15 percent say. saying it was necessary to deal of potential homebuyers can A family would need an with an inflation rate that meet today's monthly pay­annual income of over $45,000 exceeds 13 percent, poor pro·ments, a ''severe drop'' from to afford the $732 monthly ductivity and the dollar's weak­past years. 
mortgage payment required on ness. 
People must spend about 36 a $6),000 home carrying a 14 "Even if housing activitypercent of their disposable in­
percent mortgage, a spokesman declines sharply over coh1ing come for housing today, or for the National Association of months, the Fed's actions about rwice as much as 10 vears Home Builders testified. might well lead to a sharper ago, he told the congressional even hold out the"Can we decline in interest rates over 
Joint Economic Committee. 
expectation ... that young adults the longer run,'' Janis said. 
· The panel held hearings to can form independent house­Herman J. Smith. VILe presi­study the housing outlook in the holds?" asked Sen. Paul Sar­dent-treasurer of the National 
wake of tight-money policies banes, D-Md. Association of Home Builders,adopted Oct. 6 by the Federal Sarbanes said the housing testified that housipg starts Reserve Board. Since then, pinch facing middle-income next year will plummer to mortgage rates have increased people could sharpen tensions berween 1.1' million and 1. 3 from 10 percent of 11 percent to berween them and lower-in­million units, compared with as high as 14 percent, while 
come people who receive feder-1.75 million this year and more than 2 million in 1978. Others put next year's figure at 1.4 million units.
---------------------------
The construction slump will 
increase umemployment in the housing industry by 20 percent, 
********* affecting 1. 5 million workers, 
Smith said. 
Observer needs typists. 
Janis said, "If the downturn is roo severe and protracted, the resulting shortfall in pro­
Call Kim at 8122 or 8661. 
duction will cause a large pent-up demand for housing.'' Ironically, this will lead to another surge in housing prices 
************ by 1981, making it "virt~a.lly 
impossible for young families and those with lower incomes especially to afford housing,·' he said. 
--River City Records-­announces the First Annual "Tape-It To The Umit Sale I" 
•All 
Blank Tape is 51.00 Offl-No Umit (we carry TDK, Maxell, BASF, and Memorex) 

•All 
8-Tracks & cassettes 51.00 Off-No Umit 


eAII record crates-$1.00 off (this is the first time weve had crates on sale!) 
•Discwashers, tape cases-$2.00 offI 
now until 10:00 pm this Sunday, Jan. 20, at all 4 River City locations; including 50970 U.S. 31 N ·3 miles north of campus 277-4242 (next to Al's Supermarket 
COLLECTOR'S SHOW 
U.S. 31 North

AND SALE! store only ethousands and thousands of cut...outs, oldies, budget l.p.s, special imports and hard to find albums eposter sale -a few of the huge 4X4 posters will be sold to start the semester off in style eSteve Dahl's ~~Ayatollah .. 45 is available-listen to the River City ads on WLUP -fm this weekend, and visit our booth at the Loop-Fest; Feb. 2 & 3 at the Amphitheater in Chicago 

Thursday, january 17, 1980 -page 10
The Observer 
the lead to four. [continued from page 11] But .Jackson missed the front 
• Boycott

end of the one-and-one at­• • half, as the Wildcats, paced by tempt, and Kyle Macy's three­
Fred Cowan's 14 points, shot 63 point play following the miss (continued from page 11) Olympic Committee, Robertpercent from the field, includ­gave the Wildcats all the points have to urge Americans to Kane, said Wednesday the
tng 14 layups. they needed to hold on. 
boycott the Moscow Olympics government should look for anBut the Irish,. trailing 69-5 7 "I thought we put ourselves in and hope public sentiment, alternative to a boycott. In awith nine minutes left in the 
the hole early in the game,'' coupled with the prestige of his television interview, Kane said game, got a break when the Phelps commented, "but I felt office, would force the U.S. a U.S. boycott of the Olympics Kentucky bench was called for we made a great run at the end Olympic Committee to agree. would be ''inappropriate and 
a technical foul after Rich to cut it to sox.'' But the president of the U.S. gauche.'' 
Branning was fouled. Branning
• • • Irish 
Bill Hanzlik paced the Irish
hit three of four free throws, 
with a season-high 18 points, and then Bill Hanzlik scored on while Kyle Macy led the Wild­a jump shot when the Irish got cats with 21 and was selected 
• • . North Dakota 
the ball back. Tracy Jackson most valuable player for the scored on a 16-footer to cut ti.t: game. lead to 69-63. [continued from page 12] second stanza. Bur the Gophers 
''I'm proud of this team and bombarded Notre Dame goalieThe Wildcats built the lead the way they bounced back,'' The Irish played like anything Dave Laurion in the third period back to 10, 75-65, but with 4:21 Phelps added, ''This is just but an injured team the first with 27 shots. Laurion was 
left and the Irish trailing 75-69, typical of our performances two periods in the opener spectacular, but Minnesota got.Jackson was fouled by Derrick over the holidays, and Kentu­against Minnesota, buildmg a the tying goal with 9:05 to play.
Hord and had a chance to cut cky played very, very well." 5-2 lead midway through the Tim Harrer won the game for the Gophers at 4:30 of overtime on thetr 66th shot on Laurion. "It was certainly dishearten­
Molarity by Michael Molinelli ins to lose the way we did," 


The Daily Crossword 
ACROSS DOWN 1 Bridge tenn display 1 Blind part 29 Apartment 5 Small 37 Uncomfort­2 Heavy 30 Overfed flatfish able drinker 31 Lawyer: 
9 The thing 39 Child's 3 Handle: Fr. abbr. farther game 4 Famous 32 Footnote away 40 Those who wrestler abbr. 
13 Moon covet 5 Cursed 33 Apprehen­14 Cockeyed 41 Apple and 6 Actor Delon sion 15 Healthy pear 7 City on the 35 "I'll-In 16 Group: abbr. 42 Voice vote Rhine my dreams." 
17 Insane 8 Roasting 38 Item for a
43 1966 NL 
19 Otherwise batting stick waiter 20 Lunar Face 9 TV spoof 39 East Indian 
champ
23 Cart of secret tree
44 Dinner 
pullers agents 41 Air Force
table 

24 Author 10 Angel item Items
rebuke 
Levin 11 In addition 43 Soap plant
52 Rose's man 
25 Swung 12 Young adult 44 -War
53 Combination 18 Natives of 45 Straighlaround 54 Applaud a Greek beam27 Jimmy's 55 Zola title island 46 Foch of
film

32 sacred 57 A Cantrell 21 Chopping 47 ReverseImages 58 Arab port tools 48 Iranian33 Wiener 59 Bravos 22 Composer coin34 Certain 60 Tenninates Salle 49 Spirit
European 25 Gamut 50 Sally, the
35 Tries to 26 Droops dancer
All Rights Reserved find 27 Urgency 51 Resorts
36 Brilliant 28 Charles or Louise 

said Smith, "but I was very 
pleased with the way we came 
back the next night. It took a lot 
of character, but we played 
solid hockey Saturday.'' 
Jeff Logan paced the Irish 
victory with two goals while 
senior Ted Weltzin added a 
goal and two assists. Freshman 
Bob McNamara stopped 33 
shots, 15 in the final period, 
while Notre Dame rattled Go­
pher goalie Jim J etland with 52 
shots. 
In Grand Forks, the Irish played even the first two peri­ods the first night and were tied 2-2 heading into the final 20 minutes. But North Dakota blew the game wide open in the third, scoring four unanswered goals in a span of less than six minutes. Phil Sykes paced the Sioux with a hat trick, his last goal coming with 1: 10 to play. 
"We played well until the third period," said Smith. "We made some mental mistakes then and just didn't do the job defensively. That killed us." 
Saturday night was the same story. The NoDaks capitalized on two defensive mistakes by the Irish for two goals in less than two minutes and led 2-0 at 
5:39 of the second petioff:']eff110Vl Brownschidle responded at 8:38 with a power play goal on a deflected slap shot, but that was all the scoring for the Irish. 
"It doesn't hurt as much losing and knowing you still played well," said Smith, "but It spelled a lot of trouble for us. Now we have got to start climbing out of the hole." 
First place certainly appears out of reach now for the Irish, and if they don't start turning the tide thts weekend, they may find themselves battlin~ once again for home ice m the playoffs at the end of the season. 

SUPPLY AND 
INVENTORY 
MANAGEMENT 
Ifyou want experience in supply or inventory man­agement, there's no faster way to get it than as a Navy Supply Officer. In less than a year, you could be responsible for supplying a single ship, the equiv­alent of running a million-dollar-a-year business. 
Also top salary, travel and complete benefits. For complete information, send your resume to, or contact: 
Dept. of the Navy (code 04) Management Programs, Bldg. 41 NAS Glenview, IL, 60026 (:312) 657-2234, collect 
The Observer Thursday, January 17, 1980-page 11 
U.S.. boycott lacks support 
W~SHINGTON (AP)_ -!he Afghanistan. But Olympic offi­Umted States has receiyed lit_de cials say the Saudis had given encouragement from us alhes notice last October that they on the question of boycotting could not send a team to the _Moscow Olympics and may Moscow. decide to try to boycott the The Carter administration has gam7s alo~e, State_ Department been waging a public relations officials said Wednesday. campaign for a boycott, com-
Western European govern-posed .of a series of statements I"?ents ge~erally are ~y~pathe-of "personal opinions" that tic to the Idea of pumshmg the officials acknowledge have Soviet Union for its military been carefull(. orchestrated. interve1_1tion in Afghanistan by Robert Pau , public relations boycottt~g the _Moscow games, director of the U.S. Olympic the offictals satd. Committee said that some 50 
But the allied governments to 75 athl~tes have contacted haye_ indicated they fear pu~lic the USOC in Colorado Springs opt!JIOn would-be n7gauve. and "they are 100 percent All1ed government offi~tals also supportive'' of holding the say they are uncertam about Games. their ability to enforce an ''There has not been one unpopular. boycott or th~ wis-dissenter," said Paul. "They dom of trymg to do so,_ satd the wish to /o to Moscow. They State Departme~t offi~tals, who have sai 'please keep politics asked not to be tdenufied. out of the Games."' 
Only one country, Saudi Ara-Administration officials note bia has pulled out of the that the government does not Games, and it is widely report-have the power to compel a ed to have doJ?-e so beca~se of boycott. President Carter would the recent Sovtet occupation of [continued on page 10] 
by Mark Hannuksela Sports Writer 

Riding the crest of Missy Conboy's 20-point outburst, the 
•Notre Dame women's basket­ball team downed the Pumas of St. Joseph's of Indiana 72-64 last night at the ACC. The win snapped a two-game Irish los­ing streak, and raised their seasonal record to 6-3. 
Conboy, who fills the popular 
sixth man role for coach Sharon 
Petro, was instrumental in 
bringin~ the Irish from a 9-6 
deficit mto a 14-12 lead. Her 
two free throws at 11:24 of the 
first half gave the Irish the lead. 
and her teammates continued 
to lengthen it. Two free throws 
byJane Jergeson gave the Irish 
their biggest lead of the half at 
38-23. Conboy's three point 
play with :24 seconds temain­
mg ended scoring for the first 
half, and the Irish took a 41-27 
lead into the lockerroon. 
Notre Dame conlji.r;l,ued to wi­
den its lead, and reached its 
biggest margin at the 12:29 
mark when Maggie Lally took a 
pass from Shiela Liegscher and 
hit a jum{>et from the right 
corner to gtve the Irish a 55-33 
lead. The Pumas then proceed­
ed to outscore the Irish 31-17 
the rest of the way to make the 
final margin of vtctory respec­
table. 
During those last 7:31, Notre Dame had three starters foul out. In addition, Coach Petro was without the services of 
-
"Missy played very well to­night, and I think that's be­cause she is gaining a lot of confidence in herself. She is 
• • • Pittsburgh
improving steadily, and really • 
2-2 for road trip _ 
Irish fall to Kentucky, San Fran. 
by Mark Perry Sports Editor 

While Tracy Jackson's spec­tacular 35-foot prayer has Irish eyes looking anxiously to the future, the Notre Dame basket­ball team had a less-than-spec­tacular performance during their traditional Christmas road trip. The Irish finished strong with wins over TCU and Tu­lane, but losses to Kentucky and San Francisco dropped the Irish out of the top five in the bas~etball polls. 
ND85, TCU68 

One of the traditions that Notre Dame coach Digger Phelps has initiated during his reign is allowing his players a chance to play before their hometown crowd at least once during their career with the Irish. Gilbert Salinas, Notre Dame's center-forward, got his 
Conboy paces UJin over St. Joe's 
starting center Jane Politiski, into a game," Conboy added, who in1ured an ankle during a "I would get real nervous, and game m the Northern Illinois when I played badly I got down tournament last weekend, and on myself. This year, when I get
Jan Crowe and Donna Reynard, into a game, I know that I'll stay who will be lost for the remain­in for a while because of theder of the season due to people we've had out of theacademic inelligibility. 
line-up. Sharon has been using"Tonight we played much her bench real well this year,better than we have been playing," stated the third-year and everybody's getting tocoach after the contest. "We've play. I think I'm getting aboutbeen having some problems of as much time as the starters,late, and it doesn't help not and I seem to do well coming off having three players who are the bench, so as long as that'seach 5-11. We don't have the where Sharon wants me, I'mtremendous height advantage more than happy to oblige. '' over most teams that we had at The Irish have designated thisthe beginning of the season, so coming weekend as Parentswe're going to have to over­Weekend, and have two gamescome that with some hard work, scheduled, one against St. Am­enthusiasm, and hustle." 
brose on Friday night, and thePetro was additionally pleased other against St. Louis at 1 p.m. 
with the performance of Con­Sunday afternoon. 
boy. 

chance to show the home folks what he could do on]anuary 13, and helped the Irish cruise to an 85-68 win over TCU in San Antonio, Tex. 
Salinas, a native of San Anto­nio, scored only four points in the game, but aided the Notre Dame cause with five assists, three rebounds, and some ag­gressive defensive play. 
Tracy]ackson, Rich Branning, and Kelly Tripucka scored 13 points apiece to lead Notre Dame. The Irish grabbed an early lead, allowing Phelps to emf.ty his bench in the second hal. 
·ND 79, Tulane 59 

Irish center Orlando Wool­ridge had his homecoming on Jahuary 10, as Notte Dame traveled to Shreveport, La., to face the Green Wave of Tulane. Woolridge, who hails from nearby Mansfield, scored 10 points and led the Irish in rebounding with nine, helping Notre Dame to explode in the second half. The Irish came a-;yay with a hard-fought 79-59 wm. 
Tulane kept close for most of the first half, but the play of Rich Branning and Notre Dame's depth finally prevailed. Branning led..the Irish with 18 point~, mcludftig an eight-for­twelve shooting performance from the field, and also had a season-high seven assists to pace the attack. 
San Francisco 67, ND ~ 9 
Poor shooting from the free throw line and a rash of second half turnovers helped spell doom for Notre Dame on Janu­ary 8, as the San Francisco Dons scored a 67-59 upset victory. 
The Irish led by five points several times in the second half, but the Dons outscored the Irish 11-1 in o'ne stretch to grab the lead that would not be challen8"ed. 
Branmng led Irish scorers with 15 points, but Notre Dame's 9 for 19 performance at the foul line gave San Francisco the opportunities they needed. 
Kentucky 86, ND 80 
Notre Dame came to Louis­ville, Ky., ranked third in both polls, and had a chance to move up when they faced number­two Kentucky. But the Wildcats grabbed a 14-point lead in the first half, and a tough Irish comeback fell short, as Kentu­cky won an 86-80 decision. 
The Irish fell behind 45-27 with two minutes left in the fitst 
[co.n:tinued on page 10] 

, , , jackson 
[continued from page 12] 
ed to score the last eiglit points of the half, breaking a tie and ~iving themselves a 32-24 cushton at intermission. 
The eighth-ranked hosts kept up that intensity for another etght minutes before Villanova started its comeback effort. 
Wildcat guard Tom Sienkie­wicz led all scorers with 21 points. Howard chipped in with 

12. • 
Kelly Tripucka paced the Irish with 16 points, while Jackson added 15, as well as pulling down nine rebounds. 
The Irish, now 10-2, travel to Pauley Pavilion and a rematch with UCLA on Saturday. Tip-off for the nationally-televised af­fair is slated for 3:30 EST. 
plays well coming off the bench.'' [continued from page 12]. 
Conboy, a native of Heidel­berg, W. Germany, had her And with everyone from 60 Minutes to Sports own thoughts about her per­Illustrated continually spotlighting the deleteri­formance. ous effects of athletics (especially professional 
"We needed to hit some athletics) on society, I just thought it might be outside shots because they encouraging to mention somethin7 upbeat. were playing a tight zone, and I And, speaking of upbeat, don t get carried kinda got lucky and hit a few. away with the bookies this weekend. The We were really up for the game Steelets should win Super Bowl XIV but tonight, because we hadn't probably not by the 11-point spread. The Rams played real well lately." have a good solid defense and three ex-Steeler 
"Last year, whenever I got assistants on their coaching staff. That alone will be a factor in their favor. 
But consider this. The Rams are dull and lackluster--no one would argue that point (Yawn!). But they have this habit of pulling opponents down to their boring and drudgerous level. Then, just as the foe starts snoring, the Rams kick a field goal and win 3-0. Now that, in all probability will no~ happen Sunday.' But I expect a very boring Super Bowl, a low-scoring Super Bowl, and probably a final that reads something like: Steelers 17, Rams 10. 
And, if I'm wrong, don't bother to wake me when it's over ... 
.. 

. . ~•:~;i ~· ...·-'..· '··~ ~ ~. >,'-, ·" ::....):. :.... !V ,..•.. .-~.~;• ,~ f .. ~;•";'.. •._.,., •.·.J.J.~.J ~ -..L.f..~.;;. ':("';, ,·::, . .;.~ .. -~t '~,· . .:. f• >dl•.:tYr.r. ~ i.l U ; 4.-4..,-.ltl.t<"t:~lrtl-\•"!>."i'I.R ~-· :c£ ~.~~-~~~ _ii',~•'C.•~•·"'.t;}tlfo~-.t·• P:# .._,._~ot.'t>-tr-.·J>"1' ~ t .Jr,t.J,.,I.·'t i..J 


~ 

Thursday, January 17, 1980 -page 12
S]2orts 

Jackson saves Notre Dame with last second heroics 
by Paul Mullaney I knew that three seconds Assistant ~ports Editor would be enough,'' said an emotionally-drainedJackson af­
Tracy Jackson came very close terwards. "I kept my eye on the w having nightmares Tuesday clock, and knew exacrly when I nighr With only 26 seconds had to let it go. I guess you remaining, and Notre Dame could say I had one eye on the dmging to a one-point lead over clock and the other on the Villanova at the ACC, Jackson basket. missed the first of a one-and­''I realized that I had to get a tme free throw opponunity. good arch on the shot, and told 
On the subsequent Wildcat myself just to let it go. I knew it pos..,ession, as fate would have looked pretty good, and I knew 
u. guard Rory Sparrow drove it beat the buzzer.'' the left baseline past Stan It also beat a stubborn Wildcat \X"ilcox for the go-ahead basket squad which regrouped after wuh live seconds remaioing on trailing by 18 points, 51-33, rhe clock. tight minutes into the final 
:\fter the Irish huddled around sranza -about the same time 
coach Digger Phelps with a that Irish guard Bill Hanzlik mere three seconds showing on drew his fifth personal foul. the clock. Jackson was hopeful "When Hanzlik fouled our we of making amends for his just dido' t execute," said earlier free throw miss. Phelps. "We didn't play with 
"We had three options to get the same defensive intensity as the shot off their double pick," we did when he was in there. Phelps said of the play he had "Bur you can't take nothing 
diagrammed moments earlier. away from Villanova. We really ·'lf (Rich) Branning were open, didn't deserve to win with the we would have gone to him way they outplayed us in the first. Tracy was our second last ten minutes.'' option to get open, and Wilcox The Irish, who shot only 59 
I 
was our third. percent from the foul line, 
North Dakota drops Irish to 7th 
"Whichever one got the ball missed some other key free 200rt victory at Notre Dame. 
was going to dribble as deep as throws in the final mmures. b_y Bn(m Beglane this weekend's home series "Unfortunately, you must play 
the three seconds would allow, That, coupled with the fact that Sports Wn"ter against Colorado College (7: 30 then get the shot. Three se­they could only muster two field p.m. faceoff Friday and Satur­six to win. So now we have dug 
t conds is a long rime. '' goals in the seven-and-a-half A holiday jinx? The post­day at the ACC). .a hole for ourselves with those 
I But for Jackson, it was just minutes prior to)ackson 's her­Christmas blahs? Just plain Notre Dame fell to seventh three losses and must turn 
i things around soon. And it will
enough. After receiving the ball oics, helped Villanova get back rotten riming? place during its 11-day tour of 
I be no easy task against Colora­
in the Irish backcourr, the into the game. Locating the exact trouble and the upper midwest and posts a do this week.''
I junior forward dribbled down "I thought it was a pretty good purring a label on it is hard. 6-8 conference record, 10-11I the left sideline while keeping a effort on the part of our team,'' Figuring out the consequences overall. After being swept 5-1 Injuries continued to haunt I close eye on the scoreboard said a shell-shocked Rollie is easy -it all spells a hard fall and 7-3 in non-league play Smith's skaters during their 
I road trip, certainly nor helping
clock. ) ust before the final Massimino, Villanova's coach. in the Western Collegiate Hoc­versus U.S. International in San
I matters any. Sophomore center
seconds ticked away, he pulled "You don't lose bur maybe one key Association standings for Diego Dec. 29-30, the Irish split 
I Dave Poulin, last year's leading
up 30 feet away -belly-to-belly our of 100 games like thJs. But I Notre Dame. at Minnesota Jan. 4-5 in Min­scorer, came down with thewith Villanova forward Aaron guess chis was the one.'' The Irish dropped five of six neapolis and dropped two a­measles in Minneapolis andHoward -and released an The game was nip-and-tuck road contests -three of four gainst North Dakota in Grand 
games over saw only limited duty the firsroff-balance jumper that hit for the first 16 minutes of play. conference -the ForksJan. 11-12. 
night there. He was just making 
nothing but net while the final Notre Dame, however, manag-Christmas break and have dug Notre Dame blew a three goal horn sounded a 70-69 Notre a hole for themselves in the lead the first night against a comeback from a bout with
[continued on pagell} 
viral meningitis and appearsDame victory. WCHA standings heading into Minnesota and lost 6-5 in ro be ready-for action thisovertime, bur eame back the weekend.
following night for a convincing Junior defense man Scou Ca­
6-3 win over the Gophers. After spending the week in the Twin meron sprained a knee in
Pittsburgh -1City of Champions' 
pracrice the week before theCities, the Irish lost 7-4 and 3-1 Minnesota series and missedto first place North Dakota to both weekends. Smith hopes toPITI'SBURGH--Ir happened in September 
force themselves into playing a have him back against Colora­(Whar a great title for a movie!). Ted Kennedy game of catch-up as the season do. Freshman Rex Bellomywas still ins::Hing thar he was not a candidate for Frank progresses. Seven weeks re­broke a knuckle the secondpresidenr, Notre Dame had just "kicked" main of the regular schedule. 
night in Minnesota and will"We played five good periods Michigan right through the goalposts of Wolve­LaGrotta probably miss this week's

each series against Minnesota se­rine Stadium and, for all most of us knew, Sports Writer and North Dakota,'' said Irish nes.
Ayatollah Khomeini was just another profes­coach Lefty Smith, who is five

sional basketball player thar had changed his like never before. On any local radio station at [continued on page 10)
wins away from collecting his
name. any rime of the day, you're likely to hear some Anyway, it was on a Monday night in version of the Sreeler Fight Song. For Polish 
,,, J'>· v ., ' :, "~
S<·ptember rhar the Pittsburgh Sreelers upset residents there's the polka renditJOn, while the the favored New England Patriots in Foxboro. Irishmen have done it with a brogue so like the Ar rhe same rime their baseball counterparts, homeland that you'II swear you smell of hills of 
~e1(,ftf'fis6 issues statement 
the Pirates. were on their way to a World Series Killarney. There's one sung to the rune of 
',.,:· . 

title, all of which prompted the venerable "Hava Naghila" for those of Jewish extraction 
Howard Cosell (who just happened to be the and even the discos have got involved with two 
concerning varsity athletics
,olor commentator for both broadcasts) to )able different versions that drive Steelers fans, young
Pius burgh "The Cirv of Champions." and old, right to the dance tloor. 
.. The following statement is being issued by· Yes, vou read right--or heard right if you All three local television stations open and 
Notre Dame Athletic Director Edward W. Krause, in 
happened ro be tuned in that night. Nor the close their local newscasts with Sreeler action 
·.response to inquiries and reports circulating within the loc41 
'Cirv of Steel, Smoke, or even Soggy Cereal" (I film besides using the Steeler emblem, colored 
communities regarding the future ofcertain varsity sports al 
don't know what that means but the alliteration in Black and Gold, of course. on their station 
Notre Dame. 

adds a nice ring). Someone finally said !D's. On top of all that, local merchants report 
o.;omerhing nice about Pittsburgh. And don't that "Terrible Towels" and Steeler paraphana­
Because of spiralli~g infla~ionary operating ex~enses, ~he think for a '>econd that the restdenrs of that lia are selling better than ever. 
athlettc department ts lookmg aheaa for solunons whtch oft-maligned city didn't rake advantage of it. In all. it is a perfect example of the kind' of 
woufd enable us to continue to provide a weU·rounded Before Cpsell could bar a lip, his "City of tivic pri_de and awareness that an athletic can 
~thletic program. We ar~)n the process ar the present time Champions'' rag was plastered all. over gtve a ctry. 
o( devd9ping a list of alternatives to be considered in the billboards, buttons, and every port authortty bus ''I'd heard so many people say that Pittsburgh 
event we. were faced with an operational deficit, which a from Baldwin roWilmerding. was good for nothing bur steel and pollution that 
number ofma:jor universities are ~rojecting for themselves. !\nd it fit. didn' r it) The Sreelers had just won [starred to be ashamed to say I was from here,'' 
No final decision on any alternanve has been made at this Super Bowl XIII and the Pirates were victorious one woman told me the morning of the AFC 
time, but ou.ii:recommendarion will be considered by the rn World Series XXXlllwharever. So, the Golden Championship game. 
Board of Trustees within the next several months. Contrary Triangle could wear the ~ag Co~dl had coined "Bur hey." she smiled. "We got the Steelers 
. to reports. we are not posjrioning ourselvt."S for an immediate w11h verv little argument from other metropolt. and you can't argue with a winner." 
.· retrenchmen~ 'ina:ny varsity spore, bur rather we are looking Onlv M<inrreal {the Stanley Cup) and Seattle (the Argue, no. But revel in. rally 'round. 
at a broad spectrum of alternatives to be studied. We have \iHA champ10nship) had any voice at all with idenrifv with ... ves ..-<tnd it seems to me that the 
advised oqr coaches for all sports. except football and whilh ro proresr. . Pirates' and Steelers have really been a positive 
basketball, th:at np firm . commitment for ntw arhletil· Now, wtth tht' Steelers geanng up to defend tnt1uence on a very ethnic, very quainr btg city. 
g_raots-in-a:id should be made until a firm decision has been r!-.eir NFL crown this Sundav agamst the Los 
reached bv the Board ofTrustees.
lcontmued an page I I) 
' .' 
.\ngde.., Rams. the r:iry of Pittsburgh has ral!ied 






