Senior tribute -page 9
' ' ' 
VOL. XV, NO. 63 
an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and saint mary's MONDAY, NOVEMBER 24, 1980 
"To Serve and Protect" an ambiguous statement at best. One ofSouth Bend's finest keeps an eye on Corby's tavern. For more on th"e Corby's controversy, see story atrightrpho,to by john Macor). 
At Seturday 's game 

Fiesty Soviet youth vows resistance 
By Lynne Daley News Editor 
Walter Polovchak, the young Soviet citizen seeking to remain in the US against the wishes of his parents, toured the ND campus on Saturday and said that he "wouldn't go back" to the Soviet Union if he loses his court case. 
Polovchak, 13, came to South Bend with his attorney, Julian Kulas, to view his first football game. He was met by reporters as he entered the ACC' for a meeting with Moose Krause. The boy received in­ternational attention in July when he and his 17-year-old sister, Natalie, ran away from home to avoid returning to the Sqviet Union with their par­ents. 
Natalie, who possesses her own visa, has already received permtsston to remain in this country. Walter is included on-a visa with his parents and a younger brother. Soviet auth­orities have stated that they will not re-admit the Polovchaks to the coutry if they return with­out Walter. 
Kulas, himself a native Uk­rainian, said that Polovchak would be a "marked person" should he be forced to go with his parents. He speculated that many pertinent facts about the case are being withheld by the senior Polovchaks. 
"Very few families are allow­ed to leave the Ukraine as a unit," Kulas explained. 
He said he could not under­stand the Polovchak's desire to return to the Soviet Union. "They fled a country which has a very repressive government," he noted. "It took them over 2 years to leave." 
Now, he maintained, "the Soviet authorities spend con­siderable time with the par­ents-coaching them and making promises." 
Polovchak speaks halting English, so most questions were directed through Kulas. Small in stature, he seems unaware of the furor his action has caused. 
"I didn't expect this case to 
(continued on page 4) 


The Corby's Saga; a tradition of conflict 
Editor's Note: Next Tuesday, Corby's Tavern, formerly a popular social spotfor Notre Dame students, will/earn whether or not its liquor license will be renewed for another year. The fierce conflict betwten South Bend city officials and Corby's is not a new one however, and Observer staffreporter john Higgins traces the background leading up to next week's decision in this two-part series. 
ByJohn M. Higgins Staff Reporter 
The battle over the renewal of Corby's Tavern's liquor license officially began last spring when the local board of the Alcoholic Beverage Commission (ABC) recommended that the state ABC deny the renewal. _ 
Those fighting Corby's, however, say that the dispute has been going on for several years. In remonstrating against the license. the city of South Bend and the 
Northeast Neighborhood Coun-MONDAY=~:::::::::::::::::~:::::::::::::::: cil (NENC) have said that the problems with ~orby's are t~e ::::::::::\:::::::~FOCUS 
same as those wtth other bars tn the Northeast Neighborhood-iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii;;iiii;.~iiiii the serving of minors, constant noise, an over-abundance ot garbage, and disruption of the neighborhood. 
They contend, however, that while some of the other bars have cooperated with government officials and neighborhood resi­dents, Corby's has not. 
The legal basis for the remonstrance against Corby's license is the 1979 conviction ofa Corby's bartender for serving alcohol to minors after three underage ND students were arrested inside the bar on August 31, 1979. 
However, the charges against Corby's are not limited to those and other arrests in Corby's. The arguments have broadened to ascertain the impact of the tavern's operation on the neigh­borhood. Both city and neighborhood officials argue that Corby's operation has an adverse impact on the Northeast Neighborhood, more so than other bars. 
Moreover, they argue that attempts in the past to resolve problems with Corby's have failed because Corby's management has refused to cooperate. It is because of this lack of effort, the officials say, that Corby's should be closed. 
According to Indiana liquor laws, a bar or tavern must file for renewal ofits liquor license each year. Ifthe bar has not been found guilty ofa liquor law violation during the previous year, renewal of the license is automatic. 
(continued on page 6) 

Numerous casu/ties . 
Earthquakes rock southern Italy 

NAPLES, Italy (AP)-A series of strong earthquakes ripped through southern Italy last night, killing at least 200 people and injuring hundreds ofothers in collapsed buildings, officials reported. 
They expressed fear the death toll would rise as rescue teams reached tremor-isolated towns in the mountainous area. 
Officials said it was believed about 100 people perished when a Roman Catholic church caved in during evening ser­vices in the town ofBalvano, 75 miles east of Naples. Thirty deaths were reported in Pes­copagano near Balvano. 
Early today, authorities had received reports of damage in 29 cities and towns, with some buildings up to five-stories high toppled as the quake and its aftershocks that rattled Italy from Sicily to the Alps. 
The first jolt struck Naples as many people were sitting down for their Sunday evening din­ner. 
Thousands of people in this. 
port city 120 miles south of Rome jammed the streets, a­fraid to return to their homes. Local officials called for spot­lights to aid rescue teams and asked for tents for the home­less. 
Doctors canceled a strike scheduled for today so they could care for the injured. 
Rome's Leonardo da Vinci airport hailed traffic for 40 minutes when air controllers fled their swaying 195-foot­high control tower. 
Eight bodies were removed from a collapsed building in Potenza, 15 miles east of Balvano, police said, and a tele­vision reporter there said Po­tenza's hospital was filled with injured. 
Police reported at least ight persons also were killed in Naples, including a child who 

-suffered skull fractures when a wall fell on him. An apartment building here believed to have housed 20 families collapsed and rescue teams feared some of the tenants were killed. 
In N-;ples, 120 miles south of Rome, news photographer Franco Effe said the hospitals were crowded with injured. "Everyone is in the street. There's lots of panic," he said. 
There were reports that the 
quake, which struck 7:34 p.m. 
(1:34 p.m. EST), was felt as far north as Venice. The Seismo­graphic Institute in Catania, Sicily, said the quake's epicen­ter was at Irpinia, near Naples, and reported the intensity was between 9 and 10 on the Mercalli scale, which would be classified as a major earth­quake. 
The Mercalli scale measures intensity at a specific location, and differs from the Richter scale, which measures the sev­erity of the quake itself. 
Telephone connections were interrupted in many parts of Italy by the earthquake. Naples, 120 miles south of Rome, has a population ofabout 1.5 million people. 


t 
\ 





News Brie 
by The Observer and The ASJociated Press 
Arab leaders will gatherinJordan to map a long-term political and economic strategy, but the possibility looms of a rival summit of hardliners, sources said yesterday. Syrian Foreign Minister Abdul Halim Khaddam was reported en route to Libya and Algeria in an effort to promote a boycott of the League of Arab States' meeting. "There is a possibility of a sorehead summit," said one knowledgeable source who asked not to be identifed. The split in the ranks of the 22-member Arab League has been brought about by the two-month oldIran-Iraq war and the fear ofradical regimes that Iraq would win at least implicit approval for its position at the sun;tmit. Sources predicted between 16 and 19 kings, ruling shetks and presidents would go to Amman for the summit which opens Tuesday at the Royal Theater Hall on the wester~ fringes ofJordan's capital. -AP 
Two former ND studentSaresus­pected of setting fire to the Administration Building Friday afternoon, according to Assistant Director of Security Rex Rakow. Rakow said that a man poured gasoline on the steps of the building and set it afire while another man took pictures. The pair then ran toward Saint Mary's lake. No injuries were reported and only minor damage occurred to the building, Rakow said. Anyone with information concerning the identity of the pair should call the ND Security office. All information will be kept confidential. -The Observer 
Stranded on a desert island, a lone Haitian evaded capture and spent 10 days on tiny Cayo Lobos, surviving on roots, sea crabs and leftover rations, after 106 fellow castaways were forced from the island by police, a Bahamian official said. The man was "willing to go" when he was discovered Saturday by a crew ofa patrol vessel that returned to the island off the Cuban coast to search and clean up after the Haitians, who spent40 days on the football field-sized spit of land. "He apparently had been hiding in a chimney in one of the old abandoned houses O(l the island," said Bill Kalis, chief of the Bahamas News Bureau in the Bahamian capital of Nassau. Kalis said the man identified himself as 34-year-old Francois Louis. The Haitians were marooned on Cayo Lobos when their boat failed to make the 450-mile journey from their impoverished homeland to the United States, where they hoped to seek refuge. -AP 
The man who allede:ely raped tw~ Saint Mary's students on November 8, 197'7" was tdentified by one of the students last week, the South Bend Tribune reported on Saturday. The student identified the man as Thomas James Nichols, a 35-year-old repairman, who was found guilty last Friday of the rape of a Niles Township woman. According to court record, the two students were walking from Saint Mary's at about 9 p.m. After crossing US 31, they said, they saw an automobile parked at the side of the road a1;1d a man from the car started following them. According to statements made by the women, he threatened them with a gun and then forced them into a field and raped them. _ Nichols was identified by the student from photos shown to her by tl ,e Saint]oseph County Police last week. Nichols was charged with the rape last Wednesday. He is now being held in the Berrian CountyJail without bond awaiting sentencing in the 1977 case. -The Observer 
After a decade in hiding, two former leaders of the radical Weather Underground, Bernardine Dohrn and William Ayers, are trying to negotiate their surrender, local prosecutors have confirmed. Gregory Ginex, head of the Cook County state attorney's felony trial division, said that New York lawyer Michael Kennedy had contacted his office, asking for leniency for his clients in exchange for their surrender. But Ginex said he made it clear to Kennedy that any deal likely would have to wait until newly elected State Attorney Richard Daley takes office Dec. 
1. Ironically, FBI officials said their crimecomputers show no outstanding federal warrants against either Dohrn or Ayers. The Justice Department dropped charges against Weather Underground leaders in 1979. The Weather Underground demonstrations Dohrn led in Chicago were staged in protest against the Vietnam War and coincided with the federal conspiracy trial of seven people accused of plotting riots during the 1968 Democratic National Convention in Chit"'".,,.. A lJ 
Cold with a chance of snow today. Daytime temperatures in the upper 30s with evening temperatures dipping into the 20s. -AP 

Mo November 24, 1980 
-· 
Inside Monday 

A message to a friend 
I have a pseudo-intellectual friend who is con­.Margiestantly riding me about the worthlessness of newspapers -all newspapers. 
Brassil
InTom's opinion all news stories are slanted and 
SMC Exec111ive Editor
inaccurate. Newspapers print either innuendoes, allegations, lies, or just plain half-truths, according to my friend And ifhe isn't complaining about the out what happened irl the world because the accuracy of reporting, Tom is complaining about government would take care of telling us. And if how we cover and re-cover an event until people they didn't tell us something, we wouldn't worry becomebored with it. Tombelieves we do it justto because we wouldn't know about it. boost circulation. So, if war erupted somewhere irl the world, we Although it is my life's work against which he is wouldn't be bothered with daily details and directirlg his tirades, there is little I can say in casualty counts. Ifour army were sent to help out, answer to my friend. In a certairl sense, he is we would get press releases informing us of right-the survival of a newspaper is dependent victories and "minor" losses. The government on circulation, so that must be taken irlto con­would be efficient irl telling us why our forces had sideration. Outdoirlg the competition is part of to be sent to aid irl the effort. Andwe would believe that struggle for survival which leads to tryirlg to them. be the first to cover a story, or to get the exclusive We never would have been bombarded with the story. hostage crisis ifthegovernmenthadbeen handling 
There are many reasons the press coverage. The newspapers must cover government would have the news the way they do; 
told the hostages' families reasons I have tried to 
that the hostages were on point out to Tom. But special assignment. 
t>E:I'ARTMENT 
OF
Tom is adamant. In his Ifthe government didn't 

INFoi:MAIION
opinion newspapers are want to bargain with the 

"If' WE W6.i'/1" 'iOtJ:.
not worth reading, and so 

Iranians and give up all he has stopped. He won't 
OPINIO'J, wE'LL 

Iranian assests in the U.S., even pick them up to read 
GJV!: t\ 'llJ 'IOU!' 

they would have told the the comics anymore. He 
families one by one that claims he doesn't need to their relatives died in the
Q
know what is happening 

line of duty. Then the irl the world; that he'll 
government would have find out what he needs to 
had a memorial service know anyway. 
and the families would There are many people 
have received commem­
who, like Tom, decide ________~~_________j~..._-:--=---~-orative plaques. The newspapers can't tell P~. public would never have them anything worthwhile, had to know a thing. so they refuse to read And the government them. I guess they have wouldn't have had to every right to do so. Freedom of choice is as concern themselves with rescuirlg them. They 
important as freedom of the press. could have turned their efforts to more important 
But I wonder what it would be like if more concerns---' like figuring out new ways to keep us people decided they didn't need to read the from knowing what was really happening to our papers -I mean besides the fact that I would be world out of a job. Seriously, what if everyone Stopped While the basic concept of a world without reading the papers, and newspapers became newspapers may seem a little far out, one has only extinct? I can take a pretty good guess at what to read such works as1984 or Fahrenheit451 to get would happen. an idea of what the world could be like without 
We would let the government provide inform­them. Despite what my friend thinks, I feel much ation for us, They would tell us what we would safer with the inaccuracies newspapers may prirlt need to know, and would do so efficiently. than with the "truth" which the government 
After all, whenever there is a need for anything, might try to print. the government creates a department. We could have the Department oflnformation, and bureau­

Observer Notes~­
crats would be hired to sift through news and tell ]'he Observer staff yesterday announced thatus what they think we should know. They would Ryan Ver Berkmoes will assume the position ofsend out pamphlets and bulletins that would Assistant Features Editor immediately.Ver
render stories and events believable -unlike the Berkmoes has worked in production andstories printed in current papers. 
design in addition to features.
We would no longer have to worry about finding 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
~'fhe_Qbserxer_ 

:WINTER'S HERE!!l 
Why We Love School 

Design Editor ......................... . Ryan'heats taking out the trash' 
Vet Berkmoes Design Assistants ..................... : . Patty'drinking clematoes & making eggs' 

:sTORE BIKE!!! I
Hulley 
Monica'getting ahusea"Gugle Night Tech ...... Rich'need a rest'Fischer 
tYOUR l
News Ed#or ..... Pam'it's not New jersey' Degnan Copy Editor ... Lynne'everything's squishy' Daley 
1where: gate 14--stadiurnl 
Sports Copy Editor ......... Beth'a/1 those 
parties'H uffman Typist ..... Suzy'going to Mexico"Sulentic Systems Technician ...... Steve'studying 111 
t when =mon. dec 1~ .l 
work'Brown ND Day Editor .. ........ Pam'sunset over Mkhiana'Degnan 
l tues, dec 2~ wed.. dec 3. t
SMC Day Editor .... ,.Eileen'so I can ltkk Ryan'Murphy Photographer ....... Chris"take girlee shots' Salvino 
. '
Guest Appearances.... John1irehomhing the 
dome'Higgins 
t8 :30-10:30 am ~l 
The Ob11rv1r (USPS 598 920) Is 

l 2:30-4:15 pm t
published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Obaerver Is published 
t NOTE: \ t 
by the students of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions 

t BIKES MUST BE REGISTERED~ 
may be purchased for $20 per year($10 per semester) by writing The Ob11rv1r, P.O. Box 0, Notre 
: register at: LOST AND FOUND t
Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 

t ROOM 121, ADM· BLDG ~ 
The Obaerver Is a member of the 
Associated Press. All reproductionrights are reserved. 

t BETWEEN 9-11 am 1-5 pm t 
t~~~~~~~~~~~---~.-.~~~ .... 
The Observer 
Judeao-Cluistian ties 
Rabbi delivers religious lecture 
By Sue Kelleher 

Rabbi Marc H. Tanenbaum, national interreligious affairs director of the American]ewish Committee, delivered a lecture on the far-reaching ties be­tween Christianity andJudaism to inaugrate the Alfred R. and Lee Abrams Collection in He­brew and Jewish studies in the Memorial Library, Friday at 4 pm. 
Rabbi Tanenbaum's lecture was part of the ceremonies honoring the endowed collec­tion of books and other re­source materials to further Judaic Studies within the Theology Department. The collection was established in honor of a 1921 Notre Dame alumnus and his wife, both deceased, who founded a varied industrial firm in Atlanta, Georgia. The gift was made jointly by Mr. and Mr. Abrams' son, Edward, ND '50, and by the Abrams Foundadion, an affili­ate of Abrams Industries, of which he is president. 
Fr. Theodore Hesburgh in­troduced Rabbi Tanenbaum as "a personal friend" and "a bridge-builder between Christ­ians, Moslems, Hindus and all of 

CANCO Week ends: Sponsors claim success 
By Diane E. Mazurek 

As Saint Mary's CANCO Week comes to an end today, Donna Shannon, student direc­tor of the annual charity drive, has a possitive feeling about the overall effectiveness of the child abuse educational pro­grams recently sponcered by CANCO. CANCO is a South Bend clinic run by volunteers devoted to a common goal of reducing, if not eliminating, area child abuse. 
Throughout the week, "we had an information table set up and people stopped by to pick up to pick up literature" said Shannon. "I think people are more aware of child abuse and that was one of our goals." 
Another goal was to attain 100 percent participation from the student body and faculty to donate one dollar apiece. Ac­cording to Shannon, "Money­wise, we won't have ~ny idea (of how much was raised) until Tuesday." 
Hall representatives are still accepting donations, but today is the last day of the drive. Preliminary figures indicate. that the drive is backed by a substantial majority. 
As for the specific ends of.the collection, this will depend upon its size. Two probable recipient programs are CANCO's classes on parenting and their newly-formed child­ren's programs. It is CANCO's theory that child abuse is not only a 'parent problem' but is a problem to be solved before abused children themselves have a chance to apply their parents' set example to their future families. 
Other prepared programs did not gain much interest. Ac­cording to Shannon, last Tuesday's film, Ordinary People, had"not a real big turnout" nor did the Open House at the CANCO office Wednesday where "just a few girls went, but they enjoyed it." 






Campus schedule for 

Thanksgiving break 
The North Dining Hall will close after th~ noon meal on Wednesday, November 26, and will reopen for the supper meal on Sunday, November 30. The South Dining Hall will be open for all contract students staying during the vacation period. The meal hours are as follows: 
Thurs., Nov. 27Breakfast (Thanksgiving) Dinner 
Fri. and Sat. Breakfast (Nov. 28, 29) Lunch Dinner 
Sunday Cont. Breakfast (Nov. 30) Brunch Dinner 
10:00-11:00 a.m. 2:30-5:00 ptm. 
9:00-10:00 a.m. 12:00-1:00 p.m. 5:00-6:00 p.m. 
9:00-10:00 a.m. 12:00-1:00 p.m. 5:00-6:30 p.m. 
The regular schedule for meals will resume with supper on Sunday, November 30. The Library will be open during break accord­ing to the following schedule: 
Wed, Nov. 26, 
Fri., Nov. 28, Sat, Nov. 29 
Thanksgiving Sun., Nov. 30 
First and second floors will be open from 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. The tower will be open from 8 a.m. to 10 p.m. 
Library will be closed Regular hours will resume. 
Because ofthe numberofstudents expected to remain for the duration, no special vacation security measures will be in force, except that detex locks will be in operation 24 hours a clay. Parietal hours will be.as usual: 11 a.m. to midnight on Wednesday, Thursday and Sunday, and 11 
a.m. to 2 a.m. on Friday and Saturd.ay. 

God's people." 
In his lecture, Rabbi Tanen­baum, who was the only rabbi at the Second Vatican Council, referred to the event as "the kind of moment the Biblical spirits respond to." He noted the sense of novelty in "a great AmericanJewish family nation­ally and locally committing it­self to wanting to donate its collection" to a Catholic Un­iversity rather than Jewish in­stitution. His comment that perhaps the event is not so unusual, in that "some Irish­men descended from a group of HibernianJews who carried the Blarney Stone into Ireland dur­ing their flight from Israel", drew laughter from the audi­ence of 100 persons. 
On a serious note, the rabbi exonerated the event as "a recovery of a great tradition in American life which shaped the origins of American democra­cy." This tradition, he said, was rooted in the Puritans who con­sidered Hebrew to be "the exact translation of the Old Testament." Puritanism, he as­serted, was "the new Judaism translated into Anglo-Saxon terms." 
"Apart from this historical background," he continued, "the gift is a return to the mainstream ofwhat it means to be an educated person." 
Jews and Christians have a stake in the well-being ofa great University like Notre Dame, he said. "At the heart of this Catholic institution, he stated, "is an effort to try to fuse to­gether what it means to be a human being in the evil world in which we live today." 
Rabbi Tanenbaum cited the need to fuse moral responsib­ility and knowledge, to insure that its purpose is used for" the good of humanity." He recog­nized the leaders of the Holo­caust, many of them holders of doctoral degreess, as highly educated, but sadly lacking the moral responsibility which must accompany that know­ledge. 
He hailed the gift as a rec­ognition of this truth and "a bedrock upon which others must be built." 
R f These students creatively solve the dirth ofcampus socialOre• activities bygolfing under the Dome(photo by Chris Salvino). 
GILA projects offer many valuable opportunities 
Summer's a long way off, but students interested in an ex­perience which combines these three qualities, should consider a CILA Summer Project A summer project gives the opportunity to meet new people, handle unfore­seen problems, and reflect on a possible career of service in an environment wholly removed from academics. Since it's a chance to be of service (to oneself as well as to others), to have fun, and to grow, all at the same time, it could be one ofthe best and most important summers of your life. 
This past summer, 14 students spent six to eight weeks in such places as Oakland, Tuscan, Tijuana, Appalachia, and Salt Lake City. The jobs varied with the project location. For example, students in Oakland worked on community organiza­tion in a low-income area. Those in Tijuana taught, played and worked with people who lived in a garbage dump-turned-town. Medical programs, work with the elderly and handicapped, and parish activities are some other possible areas of service. Since CILA has almost as many dif­ferent projects as there are kinds of service, everyone can find something to his/her liking. 
A person can be involved in the area of service which interests him/her; a person can locate in an environment wholly alien from his/her past experiences; and a person can have fun in meeting the challenge of un­certainty. 
For anyone interested in a CILA project, information and applications will be available at the next CILA General Meeting, Sunday, Nov. 23, at 6:45 in the Library Lounge. 


Whether it's business or pleasure, Avis can get you 
going with a well-maintained car, great rates and suP,er 
"We try harder" service. All cars come with a full tank 
of gas-you pay only for the gas you use. It's the only 
way to go-with Avis! Avis features GM cars like the 
Oldsmobile Cutlass Supreme. rt 
Mlchlana Regional Alrpo
234•1024 

South Bend, IN

Cl .......,.c................ ,.... II'IIWttryhMIIt'.• 



Newspaper accuses Klan of training scouts to kill 
HOUSTON (AP) -a Ku Klux other, we justshowed them how Klan adviser and a convicted to do it." Paramilitary training felon taught Explorer Scouts is conducted by the two men at and Civil Air Patrol cadets how Camp Puller· near Anahauci to strangle people, decapitate Chambers County, the news­enemies with a machete and fire paper said. The camp is run by semi-automatic weapons at a Robert]. Sisente of Deer Park, paramilitary camp, the Hous­and Louis Beam, of Pasadena, ton Chronicle reported Sunday. Grand Dragon of the Texas Ku 
The Chronicle said in a copy­Klux Klan. Sisente says he has right story that 12 to 30 Ex­no Klan affiliation. CAP maj. plorers and CAP cadets were Paul Renfro said he relieved instructed in guerrilla warfare Sisente from his duties as leader tactics -by Joe Bogart, a Klan of the La Porte, Texas. CAP adviser, andJohn Bryant, a con­squadron Oct. 20. victed felon. The cadets, aged 13 to 19, are members of the CAP unit at El/ase. The Scouts 
Hesburgh

are members of Explorers Post 2125,Explorers is a Boy Scout program for those high school
• • . Polovchak appears at 
age through 20. Several parents have said their sons told them 
Grace tonight
Walter, Kuh s said. Polovchak met with Univer­the two men had made racial
(c~ntz:nuedfrom page 1) Grace Hall would like to in­
Walter visits his parents fre­sity President Fr. Theodore slurs about blacks and had given 
vite all students to "An Eveningturn into an international issue, quently, for one hour at a time. Hesburgh while he was here. frequent lectures on guerrilla 
With Father Hesburgh". A
which it has," Kulas said. "Wal­"They get along fine," Kulas Although Kulas and Hesburgh warfare, the Chronicle said. But question and answer period willter's case illuminates the case said. had never met, the two are both Bryant contends, "We're not be followed by a Thanksgivingfor children's rights." The case was being tried in serving on the US Holocaust teaching these boys how to mass. It all begins at «;:00 pmIf Polovchak is allowed to the Illinois Juvenile Court, but Memorial Commission. Kulas snipe. They only shoot a few tonight, in the Grace pit.
remain here, he will probably Walter's parents appealed the admitted that Hesburgh' s in­rounds, not proficiently by any go to live with an aunt in decision that awarded custody fluence in the case was limited means." Bryant was convicted California, according to Kulas. of both Walter and Natalie to a to public opinion. 'in Memphis, Tenn., in January However, he and his sister foster family in Chicago. Ac­"We're not really here to ask of the illegal sale of automatic "would be very happy to go cording to Kulas, no definite Fr. Hesburgh for his interven­weapons, and under terms ofhis back and live with their parents court dates have been set, but tion," he said. "We're here to probated sentence is not per­provided they wouldn't have to oral arguments are scheduled see a football gam·e." mitted to handle guns, accord­go to the Soviet Union," the for the Illinois Appellate Court The trip was arranged by ing to probation officer Rick attorney said. · in lateJanuary or early Febrary. South Bend resident Duane Espinosa. Bogart, a Klan mem­
He added that he thought it Ultimately, he said, the final Beckmer, who took an interest ber for two years, claimed that was unlikely that the parents hearing will be in the Illinois in the boy's case and planned during his four years of service would return to their homeland Juvenile Court. the visit. Be~kmer, Kulas and in the Marines he choked other without Walter. "I don't think Kulas claimed to be "very Polovchak viewed the game Marines into unconsciousness the Soviet authorities would optomistic" about the out­from the 60th row, on the 50-in boot camp. But he said, "We issue a visa" that would exclude come. yard line. didn't have the boys choke each 



The Observer 
Student Union starts Bow-l tixs sign-ups 
appearring in person with a
By Diane E. Mazurek 
valid student ID. These stu­dents will be ineligible to winTickets for the ND-Georgia bowl tickets in next week's lot­Sugar Bowl showdown will be tery. The packets will be dis­on sale at the ND tributed after arrival in NewStudent Union starting tomor­Orleans. tTransportation willon a first-come, first­be provided by an as yet in­basis. Three hundred determined bus company, buttickets will be sold to students will tenativly depart from Chi­who must present their names cago, New York City, and Pitts­with a $50 deposit for each pac­burgh. Amtrack, which wasthey purchase. The total used for the 197 3 bowl game, iscost of the Sugar Bowl packet is 

$199, the balence of wnich will much less cooperative this year, be due by Thursday, Dec. 4. Student Union Director Rich . Each Sulo"(ar Bowl oacket will Coppola said, t~ explain the include one game ticket,hotel switch. After Thanksgiving, ex­arrangements for fivedaysand tra bus seats may be open for four nights, round trip trans­sale to those winning the lottery 
portation to New Orleans, and a tickets. ticket to the pep rally/New Buses will leave on Dec. 28 Year's Eve party. and, driving non-stop, should 
Available from 8 a.m. to 5 arrive at the hotel around noon 
p.m. tomorrow and untill p.m. ofthe 29th. Right now, no hotel Wednesday, packets will only plans have been confirmed, but be sold to SMC/ND students according to one trip organizer, 
Barney Voll, "we may have the 
Hyatt Regency." Because more

Boston Oub 
than 300 rooms will be reserv­
• ed, lottery winners may be able

stgn-ups 
to get these reservations next week through the Student Union.

tonight 
The Rivergate Collisium will host a combinatin New Year's By Anne jane Dregalla The BostonClub is sponsoring 
party/pep rally in conjunction Staff Reporter 
a bus for Christmas break. Sign­
with alumni following a stu­

ups are tonight in LaFortune at 7 
dent-planned happy hour. Un­The fate of the Alumnae p.m. Round-trip price is approx­like Stepan Center, this space is Centennial Library and the pos­imately $105 including a $50 not free, so anyone not pur­sibility of increasing the Saintnon-refundable deposit. 
chasing a packet will need to Mary's student activities fee Any questions call Mike {2836) 
buy a ticket. Information pac­were two topics discussed at the or Jim (1528). kets describing New Orleans' Saint Mary's Board of Gover­hot spots will be distributed by nance meeting last night. the Student Union before Regarding the eventual fate
Snite Museum JChristmas break as well as in­of the present library, several formation concerning student­possibilitiesfor its use are being organized happy hours at area vocalized by different factions
plans Chaplin 
bars and the hotel. within the college. The Board is The following day will be a committed to establishing thefilm series pre-game party in the Super­library as a student union, 
dome, continuing through half­housing the student govern­time and converting to a victory ment office. The Board has A Charlie Chaplin film series party following the win. 
created a library subcommittee beginning Nov. 30 will be held OnJan. 2, buses will board for to study what should be done to in the Annenberg Hall of the home, dropping students off at compose its. proposal. Snite Museum. Gold Rush will the three designated cities on Other suggested possibilities 
be shown Sunday Nov. 30 the 3rd. for the building use have been a 
A shot from high atop the library reveals the somewhat unsymetrical layout ofthe dormatories (photo by Chris Salvino). 
Monday, November 24, 1980-page 5 
faculty office center, bookstore or post-office. The Board feels "a strong statement should be submitted from the student leaders to state how we feel." 
Another controversial sub­ject presented at last night's meeting was the possibility of raising the student government fee from $18 to $20. The initial reaction to this proposal was not positive. Mary Ellen Maccio, social justice commis­sioner, suggested that before resorting to the price hike the 
possibility  of  reducinng  or  
eliminating  the  $4  Student  
Union  fee  which  is  paid  to  

Notre Dame should be con­sidered. This sentiment was not shared by the majority of the Board which feels that this money is necessary to maintain the interests of Saint Mary's in Notre Dames student activities. 
Maccio also emphasized that before any decision is made, she would like to be convinced that the present activity fee is being used to its maximum efficiency. 
She came under fire from several other board members who strongly believed the in­crease to be justified. The reasons given for the increase would be inflation, and then re­distributed of funds among the various activities. 
Kathleen Sweeney supported the move by saying that, "we (Student Governmant) don't receive as much financial sup­port from the school as other schools do. We are a pretty independent organization." She also emphasized her belief that the Student Government budget has been stretched to its maximum efficency, while ap­plauding this year's re-evalua­tion of financial distribution to the various clubs and organi­zations. 
During the commissioner re­ports, disappointment was ex­pressed over the recent Mc­Candless semi-formal. Prob­lems occurred when the people who were employed by the Century Center for admitting the students began turning away couples who arrived late,whether or not they had a ticket. 
The next Board meeting will be December 7 at 6:00 p.m. 

10:00-? MONDAY NIGHT UVE ROCK and ROLL with 
''PARKOVASH'' 
boogie on down and rock it 

Editorial Board and Department Managers 
SMC News Editor .......... Mary Leavitt 
Editor-in-Chief............ Paul Mullaney 
Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 Managing Editor ... ." .......... Mark Rust Sports Editor ............. Beth Huffman The Observer is an independent newspaper published by the students of the Features Editor ............ Molly Woulfe 
Editorials Editor.. ......... Mike Onufrak 
University of Notre Dame du ~-c and_ Saint ~ary·~ C'?llege. It does nor ~ecessarily Senior Copy Editor ... Mary Fran Callahan Photo Editor................ .John Macor reflect the policies of the admmtstrauon of either msutuuon. The news 1s reponed Business Manager ........... Greg Hedges
Exf!cutive News Editor ..... Tom Jackman
as accurately and as objectively as possible. Editorials represent the opinion of a Controller .................... .Jim Rudd
News Editor ............... Pam Degnan 
majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, opinions, and letters are the views 
Advertising Manager ........... Mark Ellis 
of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community, and News Editor................ Lynne Daley 
Circulation Manager ........ Beth Hackett 
rhe free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged. SMC Executive Editor ...... Margie Brassil 
Production Manager ....... .John McGrath 


The Observer Monday, November 24, 1980-page6 

A South Bend Police Officer checks J.D.'s at Lee's during the Senior Death March Friday (photo by Chris Salvino). 

============================announced early next month. 
cannot be used as the basis for denying our license," he concluded. 
Masters, however, tells a different story. "We received reports that Rowley and Anton went down to Indianapolis (before the hearing officer) charging that Mayor (Roger) Parent ordered that 500 arrests be made on St. Patrick's Day and that he wants to see the bars closed down," Masters said. "The hearing officer threw out the charges against Corby's saying that there was some suspicion that the mayor had ordered the arrests. 
"Even though these persons had be8n con­victed in the local court, he wasn't going to consider them," Masters commented. "Of course there was no one from the city at the hearing to to respond." 
Masters insists that despite the hearing of­ficer's dismissal of the charges, it was proper for the local board to have taken the arrests into consideration when they made their decision. ·'While I can see Mr. Rowley's point that they were not convicted by the state commission, the fact r.emains that under the ABC's Regulation 43, the evidence of those arrests is a legitimate basis for the local board's decision," Masters said. "The local commission members testified 
that was one of the reasons for their decision" 
Szekendi agreed. "Just because the charges were dismissed doesn't mean there waft no violation," he said. "The board makes their decision on why they (the arrests) occurred and what they feel is going to happen in the future." 
Masters also disputes Rowley's claim that Corby's is not responsible for minors who enter the _bar using false identification. "It's a smokescreen. The law imposes the responsi­bility on the bar owner if there is any question whether or not the person is 21," Masters said. "The case decisions say that even if a person presents an ID saying he is 21, ifyou have reason to doubt the validity of that identification you are supposed to refuse that person admission. That is the dut) of the bar owner. 
"What Rowley and Anton are saying is that \'OU cdn come in with any piece ofidentification and they are not responsible," Masters con­tinued. "That's not the case. The law imposes the duty on the owner if they accept the I.D." 
Rowley has also accused the mayor's office, the City Attorney, and other city officials of harassment and conspiring to close Corby's. He cited "information" that Parent ordered 500 arrests be made at the Five-Points bars on St. Patrick's Day, that South Bend Police Captain Vison Smith requested to be transferred from his position as head .ofthe department's Vice Squad because ofpressure from Parent's office to close the Five-Points area bars, and that Safety Board head and Parent administrative assistant Robert Potvin is determined to close Corby's because of 

• • • Corby's 
(contin~edfrom page 1) 
Masters and Busby argue that Corby's should Those fighting Corby's however, say that the lose its license because Rowley has refused to dispute has been going on for several years. In cooperate with the local board, the city, and the 
remonstrating against the license, the city of residents of the Northeast Neighborhood in operating Corby's.
South Bend and the Northeast Neighborhood Council (NENC) have said that the problems "After their conviction, the ABC board called 
with Corby's are the same as those with other them in to give them a warning," Masters said. bars in theNortheastNeighhorhood-the servine "They told Rowley that if there was any more of minors constant noise, and disruption of the trouble before the license came up that would neighborhood take it into consideration adversely against his 
If the bar is convicted of an infraction, license." however, the owner must then appear before the Masters presented to the board at the April local board. At that appearence, anyone who meeting police reports citing additional arrests opposes the renewal of the license is given the of minors inside Corby's. While the charges opportunity to address the board and officially against Corby's in these cases were dismissed by remonstrate against renewal. The three-mem­the hearing judge, "the board interpreted the ber board then recomends to the s·tate com­arrests to mean that Corby's hadn't taken action mission whether to approve or deny renewal of to clean up their act," Masters said. "That was 
the license. 
the basis for their decision." "It was a fair decision," local board memberBecause of Corby's conviction and fine in Joseph Szekendi said. "We've had a history ofconnection with the 1979 arrests, the bar's complaints about Corby's serving minors andowners, CTI Inc., represented by Secretary they don't seem to have done much about it."
Harold Rowley and Attorney Thomas Anton, There is some question as to exactly why theappeared before the local board at its monthly 
meeting on April 23. Assistant City Attorney charges against Corby's resulting from the 1980 James Masters and Northeast Neighborhood arrests were dismissed. Rowley says that he and his attorneys successfully argued before an ABC
Council Representative Myron Busby appeared before the board to oppose renewal of the hearing officer in Indianapolis that Corby's was 
not responsible for the minors who were ar­license. 
rested inside Corby's. "If someone has iden­The board voted unanimously to recommend tification stating that they are 21 and they lookto the state ABC that renewal of the license be like they are of age, we are not responsible,"denied. 
Rowley said. 
Corby's, however, appealed the ruling to the After one of those arrested testified that shestate commission, charging that the ruling was had used false identification to enter the bar"we
"arbitrary and capricious" because the local argued our case before the state hearing officer,"
'board's recommendation to the state com­Rowley noted. "He agreed with us and dismissedmission was baseless and unduly influenced by the charges.
city officials. TheABC held a series ofhearings in Indianapolis to review the case. Those hearings "Because the charges were dismissed they concluded last month with the decision to be (story continued at lower left) 
a personal grudge against Rowley. 
However, testimony before the commission did not support Rowley's accusations. Former Vice Squad SargentJames Szalay testified that he had received specific orders "not to go out ofhis way" to arrest bar patrons on St. Patrick's Day in order to avoid conflict with drunken students. "We ran regular patrols and would respond to complaints," Szalay said, "but were told not to make any special effort to make arrests." . 
Szalay, who was transferred from the Vice to 
the Robbery Squad late last spring, also testified 
that he had no knowledge ofany pressure from 
the mayor to close the bars and that Vison's 
transfer was simply a "lateral transfer" to a­
nother department. 
In testimony, City Attorney Richard Hill cited petsistent complaints by neighborhood resi­dents about trash, noise, and crowds "made over 
(photo by Chris Salvino) 
a period of time, especially against this est­ablishment" as the reason for the city's interest 
Seniors surprise everyone
in Corby's and not any personal vendetta by Parent or anyone else. Hill also testified that he had only discussed 
with a subdued death march
the bar situation in general with Parent, "never Corby's specifically." He further stated that he had spoken with Potvin about Corby's on only 
By Pam Degnan
one occasion concerning an incident that oc­
News Editor 

curred while Potvin was serving papers on Rowley while Potvin was employed by the It was talked about for days. Dean Roemer called it anInternal Revenue Service. "He (Potvin) stated unnecessary confrontation between students, the Admin­that he was pushed or punched by Rowley," Hill 
istration and the South Bend Police Department. The South
said. 

Bend Tribune depicted it as a battle that would probably resultAnother major argument against Corby's is in the destruction of the Northeast Neighborhood. And sothat their operation has had an adverse impact on Fridayafternoon theNotre Dame Senior Class took to theon the Northeast Neighborhood. Busby con­streets and carried out a quiet-but lively-death march.
tends that Corby's has balked in efforts to strike The marchers started out as a small group huddled to­some kind of an arrangement between the gether at the main circle. After a few rousing cheers, thetavern owners and theNortheastNeighborhood huddled mass embarked on their four-block trek down EddyCouncil to and reduce the extent ofdisturbance Street that would eventually lead them to Corby's and Lee'sof the neighborhood. 
for the traditional rounds of beer and cheering.
Busby testified before the state commission As for the city of South Bend, they were more than
that Corby's operation disrupted the the adequately prepared for .what they thought was to be anNortheast Neighborhood. He cited a history of onslaught of drunken domers. At one point during the
complaints by residents to South Bend Police afternoon, four police cars, a jeep occupied by threeand the NENC about noise and trash emanating undercover police officers, and a paddywagon were stationedfrom the bar as reason for his remonstrance at the intersection of Corby and Eddy Streets. 
against the license. 
Two police officers were checking IDs atLee's. However, if
"For many months people in the Northeast the police department and Mayor Parent expected outbursts,Neighborhood have complained frequently re­
they were extremely disappointed.
garding the situation regarding both the Five­The students wondered from bar to bar in an orderlyPoints area bars and their patrons," Busby said. 
fashion, even going so far as to carry plastic garbage bagsSpecifically, Busby complained about the behind them. No one was seen walking on the neighborhoodamount of trash spreading from the bars, both streets with beer cans or cups. There were no beatings, noon their immediate property and into the sur­drunken displays, no city violations of any sort.
rounding neighborhood, and the noise coming All was quiet in the Northeast Neighborhood.
from the bars. 

Finally at 6 p.m., the Senior Class made its way back toBusby says that his strongest motivation for campus. And finally the SBPD packed up its unmarkedfighting Corby's is his frustration at what he sees undercover squads and on-the-street cruisers and headedas the bar's refusal to cooperate with the NENC back to the station. And Mayor Parent was left with a$3,000
(continued on page 7} 
overtime bill. 




The Observer 
The War goes on 
Iran, Iraq trade claims of victory 
BAGHDAD, Iraq (AP) tip of the Persian Gulf. -Iraq said yesterday that para­Olaf Palme of Sweden, a UN troopers supported by waves of special envoy seeking ways to helicopter gunships smashed an stop the two-month-old war, 
Iranian counterattack on the was in Baghdad for talks with northern war front and Iran Iraqi leaders after Iran rejected claimed its forces crushed an his mission as a "waste oftime." Iraqi attempt to overrun the Meanwhile, an Algerian dele­town ofSusangerd to the south. gation conducting negotiations 
Iran's official news agency between Iran and the United said Iraqi artillery bombard­States for release of the 52 ment of the giant oil refinery at American hostages left Tehran Abadan had started new fires for Algiers. Iran is seeking and black smoke billowed from clarification of the US response the oil facilities of the besieged to Iran's four conditions for Iranian city near the northern freeing the Americans who 
Great apes suffer infertility ; scientists ponder solution 
CHICAGO-(AP) The great sions of sex counseling. But the apes are losing interest in mon­most immediate -concern to­key business. Deep-rooted scientists is the finding that problem among captive pri­perhaps half the male popula­mates in North America, in­tion of gorillas is sterile. cluding infertility, are keeping "We know that in some cases them from reproducing. we have physiological sterility; 
The reproduction dilemma is in others, we know that we have acute, according to Dr. David behavioral problems," said Dr. Johnson of the National Insti­Benjamin Beck, curator of pri­tutes ofHealth, because there is mates at Brookfield Zoo in a chance that most, if not all, suburban Chicago and a mem­the apes alive in the next cen­ber of the University of Chi­tury "will be those born from cago's Department of Anthro­the apes now in our zoos and pology. research centers." Along with other primate 
For animals with non-physio­specialists, Beck, 41, wilJ be logical troubles, the solutions attending a three-day workshop may rest with zoological ver-on infertility next week in Atlanta, trying to find what's causing the problem and what
Darby 's Place 
to do about it. The great apes-gorillas, chimpanzees and orangutans-

plans holiday 
represent the closest living relatives to man. They are 
studied by zoos and research centers as models for human behavior and biology. 

film treat 
This Thanksgiving, Darby's In their natural environ­
Place (located in the basement ments, they are endangeredof LaFortune) will be showing species, said Beck. The infer­
two movies, free to EVERY­tility problem is critical among
ONE (on-or off-campus) in the gorillas, he said, while among
Notre Dame Community. At male chimps, only four in 3:00 p.m., the movie "Carou­
captivity-"an alarmingly

sel" will be shown. At 7:00 p.m. 
small percentage"-have re­

there will be a double feature, produced.
opening with "Brigadoon," fol­There is no evidence of 
lowed by "Carousel." There's orangutan infertility, he added, 
no reason for students who do nor ofa similar problem among
not go home to spend Thanks­other primates.
giving alone. 
• 

spent their 386th day in cap­
tivity yesterday. 
With the Persian Gulf war in its 63rd day, the Iraqi military command reported rocket-fir­ing helicopter gunships bat­tered Iranian troops and armor in renewed fighting at the north of the 300/mile front where fighting has flared in hills over­looking Iraqi-occupied villages near Gilan Garb. 
Iraq said 50 Iranians were killed in an attempt to counter­attack Iraqi positions and that four tanks and three other vehicles were knocked out by Iraqi helicopters. Iraq also re­ported 32 enemy dead in earlier fighting and said 63 more Iranian soldiers were killed in fighting further south. 
Iranian communiques stress­ed action about 200 miles south at Susangerd, a town on the main road to Ahwaz, capital of Iran's oil-rich Khuzistan pro­vince. 
Iran claimed that Iraqi troops and tanks tried to mount a major offensive aimed at Susangerd, preceeded by heavy artillery and mortar bombard­ments. Iran said its forces crushed the Iraqi attack, "killed large numbers of the enemy" and captured 17 Iraqi soldiers. "The infidels fled in chaos, leaving behind scores of burn­ing tanks," the Iranian news agency reported. 
During the course of the war, military communiques from each side have given conflicting reports of battle action and there has been little independ­ent confirmation of rival claims. 
Communiques from Tehran yesterday reported that Iranian warplanes destroyed a chemical plant, a cement factory and an electric power station in north­western Iraq near the border with Turkey and Syria. Iranian jets also destroyed an Iraqi radar station near Mosul, Tehran said. 
Iraq reported one Iranian air raid in northern Iraq, but said that only a civilian car was damaged and its driver wound­ed. 
Baghdad Radio said Iraqi jets attacked Iranian troops in the Susangerd and Abadan areas, 
but gave no details. 
• • Corby's 
Monday, November 24, 1980-page 7 

Cape Canaveral, Fla. (AP) ­the rollout of the Space Shuttle Columbia from the hangar where it has been housed for 20 months was postponed again Sunday while workmen finished applying the tiles that will shield the spacecraft from the heat ofre-entry. Officials ofthe National Aeronautics and Space Administration said the move was rescheduled for Monday and should not alter plafls to launch the shuttle by March 1981, an event that al­ready is three years and $4 billion behind scheule. "We're almost there," shuttle program spokesmenJohn Yardley said at NASA's Kennedy Space Cen­ter. When the move is finally started, the ungainly, deltawing spacecraft will make a slow, 300 yard journey behind a tractor to the Vehicle Assembly Building. There its handlers will attach a cradle like sling around its belly and hoist it into a vertical 'osition. They will retract its landing gear, pull it high over/ 
head and gently lower it into High Bay No.3 · 

Kenner Shirt Co. 

T-Shirts/Ciub Shirts/Golf Shirts Hats/B-Ball Uniforms Hockey Jerseys/Section Shirts 
with everyone's name Reasonable Prices.... Contact: Mo Mark 277-8138 1371 
crowds," Busby said. "We could see their people(continued from page 6) trying to clean more than just their immediate to control the problems in the neighborhood. property. 
In April, 1978 the NENC sought to elicit from On the other hand, Busby said, only recently the bar owners a one-year agreement to control has Corby's made any effort to clean the area, the trash and noise emanating from the bars. In and even then their labors are confined to their return, the NENC and the city agreed not to own property. "There's a lot of trash out in the press legal action against the bars because of neighborhood that they don't even try to pick 
these problems. Busby said the owners of up," he said. "I think the reason they're working Nickie's Restaurant, Bridget McGuire's Filling so hard now is because of their license trouble. I Station, and the Goose's Nest Tavern signed the don't think they have any great love for the agreement without much dissent. neighborhood." 
However, Busby said that the NENC en-"I don't want to see all the bars closed down, countered a great deal ofdifficulty trying to get that's an unfair and selfish point ofview," Busby Corby's to sign. "It was an unbelieveable hassle said. "What we're saying is that ifin the past they 
TRAINING SESSIONS 
for new members of the Undergraduate Schools Committee 
Dates: November 24-25 Time: 7:00pm Place: LaFortune TV Lounge 
I I I 
• I I 
~ 
I 
I 
l 
I I
to get Corby's to sign it," Busby said. "Even-had made some attempt to get along with the *********************************** 
tually, someone took it down to Corby's and neighborhood and made some kind of attempt * * l waited until Rowley showed up. Then Rowley to keep their place clean there wouldn't be the ~ SIGN UP ~ went to get his attorney, Anton, to sign it, he problem that we have now." * * wouldn't sign it himself. At the end of the state hearings, ABC ** fOr ** l 
"We finally told them that iftheydidn'tsign it, Chairman James Sims suggested that some sort the neighborhood association would go after all of reconciliation be worked out between ~ LONG ISLAND CLUB CHRISTMAS BUS ~ the taverns," Busby concluded. Corby's, the city, and the NENC outside of the * * I 
Busby also complained that while other bar hearings. Busby doesn't seem to think that * 9 30 11·00 p m * owners have continued to live up to the terms of would work. * : -· · ' * the agreement, Corby's has not. "I feel that "The neighbors are pretty much fed up with * Tuesday, NOV. 25 * Terry Bauer (Bridget Mcguire's) and for a time unkept promises," he said. "If the license gets ~ little Theatre, Lafortune i Dave Tatum (Goose's Nest) have made an at-renewed, there will be a lot more people fighting * * 
* *
tempt to keep their places clean and control the it next year."
-------------------------------------------------------*********************************** 
~~---­

Ia­
'I 
I • 
I 
The ObseDer==-=-== 


I 
I I I I I I I I 
I
' 
I ' ~ ' ' 
' 
' 
' 
' 
I 
,' I 
' 
' 
~ 
' I 
' 
,' 
' 
' 
i ~ , ~ 
I ~ ' 
Campus 
• 
6: 30 p.m. -alpha phi omega, room 2-d, Iafortune. 

• 
7 p. m -alsac meeting, room 331, o'shag. 

• 
7 p.m. -computer mini course, 115 ccmb. 

• 
7 p.m. -lecture:-"is rhere life on other planets?", room 122, hayes-healy, sponsor: philosophy dept. 

• 
7:30 p.m. film: ·'providence," washington hall. 

• 
9 p.m. -first meeting, student senate, little theatre, Iafortune. 


Doonesbury 
Garry Trudeau 




MJ/{1.. 50 f}f[) H& WUL, I 71-f)(K;HT Rl!Ai.J..Y ~I< 50. 8IJTI MAY 
TH& CUl-TUfi?AL HAV& 607Tf:N 
~TION'? ITWf?I)Nf7. 
I 

Monday, November 24, 1980-pageS
Todav
' 

J.=.=============================== 
Molarity Michael Molinelli 
r 






ACROSS 24 Homily: 
1 Loft a abbr. 
golf ball 26 Footllke 5 Twaddle part 9 Sea prowler 27 Fruitless 
14 City ofthe 30 Up­Taj Mahal (comered) 15 Malarial 32 Likeold fever women 16 Horse 33 Stateof blanket being gross 17 The one 37 Bristle 

there 38 English 18 Large bird county 19 Caesar's 39 Mirth 
father 40 Most 20 Not planned dashing 22 "-a 42 Cardiff's parade" land 
23 Ancient 43 Make a country • careful of Asia search 
The Daily Crossword 
Friday's Results 
© 1980 by Chicago Trlbune-N.Y. News Synd.lnc. All Rights Reserved 

44 Coronas, 9 Judges forexample 10 Idol 45 John or 11 Successful 
Jane 12 "The 48 R.R. stop Stag-" 49 Excellent 13 Vetches 50 Excess of 21 To shelter 
solar time 25 Gaelic 52 Servant of 27 Opera voice sorts 28 Over again 57 Liturgical 29 Moreno headdress 30 Come up 
58 Set of 31 News ltf<m nested on the boxes society 
59 La femme page 60 Habituate 33 Knight 61 Work on 34 -Cinders 
manuscripts 35 Haruspex 62 Ingenuous 36 Meeting: 63 Flower part abbr. 64 Mature 38 River 65 Allowance depo!.ilt 
forwaste 41 Small falcon 

DOWN 42 Prev<1ils 1 Tub 44 Sma I wolf 2-Khan 45 Greek 3 Draw tight districts 
with ropes 46 Aira 
4 Country thought of origin 47 Ravage 5 Jungle 49 Leaking 

character 51 Wax, in 6 Early Irish pharmacy writing 53 "The 
7 Claimant King-" in court 54 Winglike 8 Added 55 Nastase 
advantage 56 Dexterous 
CAMCAR DIVISION  JEAN MICHEL  
OF TEXTRON, INC. Mechanical Engineers  COUSTEAU  
''Underwater  
Camcar Division of Textron, Inc., with corporate headquarters in Rockford, IL, is a leading designer  Jungle Laws''  
and manufacturer of custom engineered fasteners  
and precision cold-forming parts used In products ranging from automobiles and jet engines to rail­ TUESDAY,  
road cars and household appliances.  INOVEMBER 25  8:00pm 
THe Vice-President of Engineering will  be  on  
campus Tuesday, Mechanical Engineers.  Nov.  25, 1980,  to  interview  library auditorium  
f\\££ 

sponsored by the 
Sign up in the Placement Office. 
S·U· ACADEMIC COMMISSION 

Sports Special-Senior Tribute Monday, November 24, 1980 -page 9 


' 



··("··· 
I was really hepped up for my last game here. It wouldn't have mattered who we were playing. -Jim Stone 




It was kindof.rpecialto me because I have spentfive years ofmy life here at Notre Dame. That's almost a quarter ofmy life. It's hardto express 
. it in a few sentences. -JohnScully 
Tim Huffman 

CWffic.Av CW8 Qc.ACV8. CW8 ffic.ACV8 qv<d::L..Av qvg co9COJJ'v Q9CV8. 
CW8'CV8 ~(0gty <J<'0CRc8CVc8CR vffic.Au\!CJ< 0J<'0CU 1r<'0CR ~ffi(0CUJ9u\!Q CU~ ffi(0CUJ tJ(0 Q9CV8 c.Au\ICO <J(0CR J\~~ CW8 u\JC0CW ffiu'\CV8. u\J<'0CV8vUCB8CR 22. 1980 <'0CUCR ~J\~v QJ\v\A8 v©Q8vffi8CR 1J(0CR <'0CUCR ~J\C[)0J 
, Scott Zettek 
Pete Holohan 

Mike Courey 



The above selection, written by 
tight end Nick Vehr, was inscribed 
onto a plaque, presented by center 
john Scully on behalf of the 1981 seniors to head coach Dan Devine prior to Notre Dame's 24-10 win over the.Air Force Falcons. 
Dick Boushka Bob Burger Mike Courey Tom DeSiato Marty Detmer Angelo Fasano Tom Gibbons Ian Gray 

John Hankerd Pete Holohan Tim Huffman Don Kidd Greg Knafelc Tim Koegel 
John Scully 
Jim Stone Nick Vehr Scott Zettek 
Coming out ofthe tunnel for the last time afterthreeyears was tough. . .I tried to look atitas a regulargame, but I'm sure I'll reflect on it as my last game and it will be the one I remember most about. -Tom Gibbons 
/ 



(continued from page 12) 

came after Brown was called for a double minor towards the end of.the first period . for high­sticking. Just 22 seconds later, Mike Lauen gave the Huskies the lead for good when he beat Irish netminder Bob Mc­Namara at the 1:35 mark. 
The next two goals of the period came as the Huskies twice took advantage of a four­on-three situation to extend their lead to 5-2. 
Brown's misconduct came after he and Jimisset found themselves in a stick-butting duel at mid-ice, Ol).e ofthe many skirmishes that characterized the period. 
·As Lefty Smith succinctly put it, "The second period killed us. Those penalties made it diffi­cult to keep any of the mo­mentum we had from the first period." 
With the Irish playing at full strength for most of the third period, center Dave Poulin and linemates Jeff Perry and Bill Rothstein got back in their familiar groove of the last two 


Duran, Leonard battle tomorrow for crown 
SPECIAL NOV. 25,26 From NO-CIRCLE 
To 
CHICAGO O'HARE 
EXPRESS! 
Depts  6:45  a.m.  
ircle  12:15 p.m.  
Arr.  10:00  a.m.  
O'Hare  3:30 p.m.  

To Your Individual Airline Gate 
Return 
(Nov. 30, Dec. 1) 
Dept 10:55 a.m. ·O'Hare 4:45 p.m. 8:00p.m. 
(Board Lower Level Carson's Circle Restaurant) 
$15 One Way $28 round trip 
Buy Your Ticket From Your Driver 
By Ed Schuyler AP Sports Writer 
New Orleans (AP)-"The The only foul Duran didn't commit was hit Ray when he was down ... because Ray wasn't down," trainer Angelo Dundee said Sunday ofRoberto Duran's tactics when he beat Sugar Ray Leonard on a decisionJune 20. 
"In 75 fights, (actually 73), Duran has never lost a round on a foul," said Ray Arcel, who helps train Duran. 
"The worst foul in the ring is holding, and Sugar Ray held," said Freddie Brown, another Duran trainer. 
Arcel, Brown, Dundee and Janks Morton appeared at a news conference while Duran and Leonard limited their ac­tivities to light workouts for 
.....-Roccos-... 
men's and women's hairstyling at comfortable prices• 531 N. Michigan 233-4957 
' 

their rematch for the World 
Boxing Council welterweight 
title Tuesday night in the 
Superdome. Duran worked out 
at an elementary school. 

"The reason we got you the 
trainers is we couldn't get you 
the fighters," said publicist 
Murray Goodman. 

The trainers did very well, with Dundee and Arcel scoring with the hardest verbal jabs. 
"Ray learned a lot in the first fight," said Dundee. "He learn­ed how to avoid getting held, how to avoid getting butted. Duran uses his head very well. Duran is a very heady fighter." 
Arcel countered by saying that at the end of one round in Montreal, Duran returned to the corner and said, "He's thumbing me. He's trying to stick his thumb in my eye." Then, Arcel paused and said, "Those things can be acciden­tal." 
"Angelo is my pupil and he's come a long way. He's a good trainer and he's trying to plant controversy in the minds of the people here." 
The Leonard camp complain­ed about the handling of the first fight by referee Carlos Padilla, the Filipino living in Las Vegas who worked the 
(continued on page 11) 
seasons by bringing the Irish back to within one goal. Rothstein, who enjoyed an im­pressive weekend notched both Irish goals after picking up two precise passes from the ever-present Poulin. _ 
The rally fell short when Notre Dame couldn't capatilize with an extra skater after MeNamara had been pulled from the goal with 45 seconds remaining. 
In the opening game of the series, Notre Dame ran into both a bad stretch of luck and some very good goaltending by Huskie Frank Krieber. Despite havtng numerous opportuni­ties, the Irish just could not pull the trigger at the proper mo­ment, and many of their best chances were thwarted by the outstanding play of Krieber. 
Smithwas fast in giving credit where it was deserved, although he cited his team's inability to capitalize on their opportuni­ties as being the biggest factor in the loss. 
"Their goaltender came up with a very fine game against us. He consistently made the saves he had to. However, we did miss more than our share ofchances. Both teams played well, but we just made the key mistake when we shouldn't have." 
Smith's reference was to the overtime goal when the Irish found themselves on the short end of a three-on-two-break. It was one of several instances in which the Huskies showed their deft passing and quick skates, as they displayed an effective brand of breaking hockey. 
Bill Rothstein was again in­strumental in theIrish attack, as he opened the scoring in the first period when he gathered in a rebound from the front ofthe crease and beat Krieber with a high backhand to the stick side. 
The goal came on a power­play, with Jeff Brownschidle taking the shot from the point 
• .. leers 

and Poulin deflecting it before 
Rothstein found t the net. 
Michigan Tech evened the score less than a minute later whenLauen took advantage ofa defensive lapse and beat Dave , Laurion. Laurion provided an enjoyable show throughout the game however, making several spectacular stops on some good 
Tech chances. 

The teams traded goals in the second period also, with Roth­stein tallying his second goal of the evening after faking a nice pass from freshman Adam Parsons. Michigan Tech's Swedish import Per-AkeJohan­sson knotted the score midway through the stanza when he took a pass from behind the Irish cage and beat Laurion to \the glove side. 
With both teams skating to a 
scoreless third period, Notre 
Dame entered its second over­
time in as many series with high 
hopes of an emotional win. In 
its last seven overtime games, 
Notre Dame had lost only once, 
giving one reason to believe 
that exciting finishes are not 
just characteristic ofIrish foot­
ball or basketball. The win was 
not to be however, as Irish 
nenesis Terry ended the game 
when he took a beautiful cross­
ice pass fromJeffJohnston and 
beat the out-positioned 
Laurion. 

In reflecting on a relatively 
good effort from his team, 
Smith seemed at a loss for ex­
plaining their problem on 
home ice. He made itquite clear 
however, that he planned to see 
some improvement in each 
facet of the fame, as he feels the 
team is far from its potential. 
"I don't know if we're too 
tense and trying to be perfect, 
or ifwe're justhaving bad luck. I 
do know that we are not making 
full use of our talents:" 

The Irish will host the U ni­
versity of Michigan next week­
end. 


The Student Union SUGAR BOWL TRIP 
5 days/4 nights hotel accommodations (4 people per room), round trip transportation from South Bend/Chicago, game ticket, New Year's Eve Party, and daily activities 
...all for $199oo Reservations will be taken at the S.U. Ticket Office beginning 
8 a.m. Tuesday, Nov. 25. $25 non-refundable deposit is required. Only 300 complete packages available. 
Additional transportation and hotel accommod­ations also will be available. 



-

Monday, November 24, 1980-page 12
Snorts 


I 
r 
' 
I-
Inspired ND downs Air Force 24-10 
By Chris Needles Carter left, Phil Carter right, · Sports Writer and Phil Carter up the middle. The sophomore tailback car­
Maybe itwas the loud tongue­ried the ball13 ofthe 14 plays in lashing that head coach Dan the touchdown drive for 71 of Devine gave his Fighting Irish the 76 yards, including the final at halftime that spurred them two, to put the Irish in the lead on. for good, 10-3. 
Maybe it was the realization "We made a few adjustments that ifthey didn't beat lowly Air at halftime," said Carter, who Force, their remaining two finished with 181 yards on 29 showdowns with Southern Cal carries for the day. "We weren't and Georgia would be rendered really reading things right in the meaningless, their national first half, and Coach Devine championship dreams having told us to pull together at half­
·-turned into nightmares. time. It may even have been the Air "But during that first series in Force band, which struck up the the second half, I heard their ........-inspirational theme from band playing "Rocky" and, I "Rocky". during Notre Dame's don't know, maybe that's what first posession of the second got us going." half, that finally got them go-The Irish defense, which once ing. again performed brilliantly, Whatever the reason, the held the Falcons on their next Irish woke up following a leth­series, giving the offense good argic first half on Saturday, field position at the Air Force returned to their ball control 30 yard line. Once again, Notre style ofoffense, and broke open Dame reverted to their Carter a 3-3 halftime tie with two third left-right-middle game, only quarter touchdowns enroute to this time with guest appear­a 24-1 0 victory over the Air ances by senior tailback Jim By Craig Chval cession. decision to the Coyotes, who Force at Notre Dame Stadium. Stone doing the honors. Sports Writer A baseline jumper by fresh­were Division I rookies at the The victory kept second­Stone, who is still Notre man Kara O'Malley had the time. ranked Notre Dame's title Dame's leading rusher with 896 A new era in Notre Dame Irish deficit back to four, 61-5 7, Despite giving up several­hopes alive and raised their yards, carried the ball seven women's basketball dawned with just over three minutes inches inside, the Irish were overall record to 9-0-1' while times for 22 yards as the Irish Saturday afternoon in the ACC, remaining, but turnovers pre­only outrebounded 47-45. the Falcons fell to 2-8-1. took a 17-3 lead on an eight­and the best description of the vented Notre Dame from get­McManus pulled down nine After Air Force's Sean Pav­play drive culminated by day's events would have been ting any closer. caroms, backed by eight each lich (from 35 yards) and Notre Stone's seven yard scamper up partly sunny. Steeve led all scorers with 15 from O'Malley and Crowe along Dame's Harry Oliver (from 31 the middle. The Irish lost their 198tl-81 points, while Crowe and Shari with Matvey's seven. yards) traded first-half field Air Force had trouble moving debut to South Dakota, 67-60, Matvey sharedIrish honors with Notre Dame won't return to goals, the Irish took the second the ball all day, acquiring only but coach Mary DiStanislao's 14 apiece. Freshman guard action until Dec. 1, when the half kickoff and played their 
(continued on page 11)
first Notre Dame squad showed Jenny Klauke chipped in seven Irish host Butler in the ACC. now-familiar game of Phil 
flashes of brilliance, and gave points, but spent much of the 
every indication that it will be a contest on the bench with foul 
competitive, entertaining team trouble before picking up her 
this winter. fifth with 52 seconds to play. 

leers drop two to Huskies 
The mos·t encouraging note, On the whole, it was an en­though, may have been the couraging afternoon for the 

I 
audience. A crowd in the vicin­Irish, who are testing the By Mike Olenik. seemed to find the confines of they were whistled for 11 penal­ity of 1 ,000, easily the largest Division I waters for the first Sports Writer the ACC no more comfortable ties, including a game miscon­ever to see the Notre Dame time this season. Last winter, than any ofits opponents' facili­duct toJim Brown. Playing with women play in the ACC, wit­Notre Dame dropped a 76-61 Notre Dame's hockey team ties, as it dropped its seventh [ what seemed like three skaters nessed the Irish lead by as many and eighth consecutive home for most of the period, Notre as nine points en route to a 33-games this past weekend to the Dame was burned for four un­
31 intermission advantage. Michigan Tech Huskies. answered goals, three on pow­Sophomore forward Janice After showing that they could erplay.Crowe sparked Notre Dame in skate among the league's bestin After the Irish had taken a 2-1 the early going, scoring three their last two series at Wiscon­first period lead on goals from buckets and assisting Tricia sin and Minnesota, the Irish Kevin Humphreys and Rex 
Belles win opener, 
87-53 over Cougars
McManus on another as the took a difficult 3-2 overitme Bellomy, the Huskies erupted Irish forged on top, 15-6. loss Friday night and fell short quickly in the second stanza, 
Making use of their superior By David Wilson the use of a thiny-second on a third-period rally Saturday, finding the cage twice in the height inside, the Coyotes Sports Writer shooting clock contributed to losing 5-4. first two minutes. fought back into the contest the fast pace of the game as In Saturday's contest, the Bill Terry's powerplay goal and tied the score on two oc­"Warning! Proceed with cau· well. second period proved disast­casions before Crowe popped in tion when Belles sound!" Armstrong was 10-for-13 rous for the aggressive Irish, as (continued on page 10} an errant Notre Dame shot five These words of a contest· from the floor, while Sytlington seconds before the buzzer to winning poster seemed to set went 8-for-13, adding three foul keep the Irish on top 3 3-31 after the stage for Friday night's shots at the line. 
20 minutes. basketball match-up between Rounding out the score were The Coyotes began the sec­the Belles of St. Mary's and the Kim Works with 11, Mary ond half by trapping the ball in Cougars of Kalamazoo. Bayless with 10, Gretchen 
The Cougars apparently took Meyer and Cheryl Sweeney
the Notre Dame frontcourt, no heed of the warning, as they with six, Lisa Shirz with four,and the strategy couldn't have committed 25 turnovers, and Tracee Hargreaves with three,worked better, as the Irish went St. Mary's went on to win the and Cyndi Short, Erin Foleynearly six minutes between game 87-53. and Karen Wallin with twotheir first two field goals of the Sparked by 20 and 19 points each.

half. 

by Ann Armstrong and Mary ''Everyone played, and justMeanwhile, South Dakota Pat Sytlington, respectively, about everyone scored," saidbegan to assert itself on the the Belles opened a quick 8-0 Dallessio, "I couldn't havebackboards and get its running lead, and held a 27-point mar­asked for much more in the first game into gear. A fastbreak gin at the half. game of the season."
layup by Renee Steeve with "I didn't expect such a big Kalamazoo just couldn't17:38 to play gave the Coyotes win," exclaimed head coach seem to get their act together.

their first lead since 2-0, and Terry Dallessio. "Our defense The team scored only 14 bask­they didn't look back. 

~nd man-to-man offense was ets from the floor, but a number South Dakota threatened to really good. of careless fouls by St. Mary's
pull away several times in the "It's always great when you allowed the Cou~ars 34 free­Defensive Player of the Offensive Player of the 
second half, but the Irish re­win the first one of the season; throw opportunittes, of which Game-Mark Zavagnin, a Game-Phil Carter, the 
fused to fold. A· flurry of free I'm really pleased." they converted an impressive sophomore linebacker who sophomore Irish tailback 
throws brought Notre Dame to The Belles cashed I in on a 25. who rushed for 180 yards on
tallied eight tackles versus 
within four, at 5 3-49 with 7:46 number of fast break opportun· St. Maiy's remains idle until the Falcons. Honorable Men­29 carries and scored one to play, only to see the Coyotes ities in building up the score. December 3, wheq they take on tion-TomGibbonsandJoe touchdown. Honorable Men­reel off six points in rapid sue-The numerous turnovers and a tough team from Valparaiso. tion-Jim Sto.ne.
Rudzinski. 

Sophomore Bob McNamara tendedgoal Saturday night for the Irish against the Huskies (photo by john Macor). 
In season opener 

Irish women fall 6 7-60 







