
... Harry 0 -page 8 

VOLUME XV, NO. 23 an independent srudent newspaper serving notre dame and saint mary's MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 22, 1980 
LaFollette 
comments on 
•

genettcs 
Douglas LaFollette visited Notre Dame last week to talk to students about genetic engine­ering and why he is against continued research in the field. Earlier,he discussed the topic with Oillaver staff reporter Mike Mader. 


Douglas LaFollette 
Q: What are your ha.ric feeling.r 11bout the tf'St-tubl:'b(lby controver~y? 
A: What I personally believe is that the test-tubebaby, as a symbol of the whole genetic engineering concept, is a very worrisome thing. It's very easy to argue the benefits of some genetic engineering concepts. It can help women have babies who <.:an't and that's a very positive thing. Sounds good. You can 

Early Saturday morning blaze blackens Grotto 
by Ann Hesburgh Staff Reporter 
The Grotto, one of the most frequented sights on campus, fell victim to flames that blackened its hallow and singed its sur­rounding ivy early Saturday morning. "It didn't click that the grotto was on fire," said Mary Rice a resident of Lyons Hall. Upon return from her early mqrning run she commented, "My first reaction was that someone was setting fires on campus again. I was surprised by the fire because I didn't think that there was anything at the Grotto that could burn." 
"The damage done to the Grotto was not extensive," said Paul Bognar of the Notre Dame Fire Department. What actually 
''Hot wax dripping down on the extra supply could have been the cause ofthe fire .. '' 
burned were the extra boxes of candles that had been placed at the Grotto. Due to the expected increase in demand for candles for the Michigan game weekend, extra boxes of candles were placed very close to one another under the racks. "Hot wax dripping down on the extra supply could have been the cause of the fire," said Bognar. 

Patrolman Richardson ofNotre Dame Security said that perhaps a lit candle that had been placed under one of the racks could have caused the blaze. "The heat from a candle could have mel'ted the plastic casing of one of the candles above allowing hot wax to drip on the boxes below. Yet before anything can be determined, we must first talk with the person in charge ofsetting out the candles," said Richardson. "Its hard to determine what caused the fire." The Notre Dame Security Report of the fire stated that it began at 6:29 and was distinguished by 6:5 3 Saturday morning. One engine and four flremen, Mike Jackson, Matthew Feeny, Schaefer O'Neill and Paul Bognar assisted in extinguishing the flames. 


~~~~:~r,:;:l~~~~~n;;J~~j Reagan, Andersondebate; blast absent Carter 
sperm and fixing them ahead of time, before you conceive a child. That sounds good. But what we're worried about and why I've taken a position opposir~g the expansion of genatic engi­neering into society is that rmner111e has to make each of these decisions. Someone has to play God. 
Q: Wh"t "dvrmcements do you see in the nearjllf11reforgenetic mgineerit1g? 
A: The thing about it that is worrisome for someone like myself, who sees the potential negative implications for society, is that it's going very rapidly. Research and so-called break throughs are happening expo­nentially. When this book, Who Should Play God?, was written just three years ago the authors said that there would be atest-tube baby sometime soon. lwerybody 
[continued on page 6] 
BALTIMORE (AP)--Republi­can Ronald Reagan and indepen­dent John B. Anderson staged two/ thirds of a "Great Debate" last night, at odds on tax cuts, abortion and defense S{>ending, but united in their crittcism of President Carter-"the man who isn't here tonight." 
Reagan said he's for a tax cut, Anderson said he's against it, and both said Carter should have joined them to debate the subject. 
Reagan said anyone who thought it ·unfair for them to assail the absent Democratic president should remember that "it would have been much more unfair'' for the independent An­derson to have been denied his debate seat. 
It  was  Anderson's  inclusion  
that  led  Carter  to  shun  the  
debate.  

That left the debate stage to the Republican presidential nom-inee and the independent Ander­son, a Republican congressman himself. 


Amderson said the debate showed that Carter is wrong in insisting the American people have only two choices for the White House, the Republican or the Democrat. He said he offers a real alternative, "the kind of coalition government that we need in 1980... " 
He told voters that "if you really think that I am a spoiler," look at unemployment, the de­cline of U.S. military forces, the waning participation of Ameri­cans in their own political sys­tem. 
He said he could cope with such problems, and better then either major party candidate. 
At intervals, the debating candidates took slaps at Carter for rejecting the League of Women Voters invitation to con­front them. They spent the rest of their hour on stage--and national televison --disagreeing with each other. 
''Gov. Reagan and I have agreed on exactly one thing, we are against the reimposition of a peacetime draft, '' Amderson said, calling that evidence that he can offer a real alternative in the Nov. 4 election. 
Reagan told a post/debate rally that the cheers he heard there convinced him he'd been 
[continued on page 6] 

Conflict intensifies 
Iranian ,Iraqiforces battle it out 
By The Associated Press 
Iranian and Iraqi forces bat­tled with gunboats, rockets and artillery yesterday along a dis­puted waterway,· at the north­ern tip of the Persian Gulf and each side claimed it inflicted heavy damage in the spreading border confltct. 
Tehran radio claimed Iranian_ fire sank an Iraqi vessel and drove four others aground in heavy fighting that raged at the 60-mile-long Shatt all Arab riv­er. Iran said it lost a police boat and a number of crewmen were injured during a sea battle and that artillery, tanks, missiles and other ''heavy machinery'' took part in the fighting. 
Baghdad radio claimed that Iraqi forces destroyed five Ir~­nian gunboats and the Iranian naval base at Khosrowabad, 20 miles south of the giant Abadan oil refinery. 
Amid the conflictiong reports on the border conflict, Tehran radio said Prime Minister Mo­hammad Ali Rajai would pre­sent five more members of his government to the Iranian Par­liament tomorrow ''God wil­ling." The Tuesday session of the parliament was also expect­ed to resume discussion of the fate of 52 American hostages now in their 323rd day of captivity. 
Rajai' s reported intention to present five more members of his government to the Parli­ament was the latest step in a struggle with President Abol­hassan Bani/Sadr over the makeup of the new govern­ment. Bani/Sadr had refected seven of the prime minister's first 21 nominees, calling them representatives of a "despotic" 
minority--a reference to the hardlline Islamic Republican 
Party  that  dominated  Parli­ 
ament.  
The redia said Rajai  would  

not name the new nominees because the matter had not been made final. 
In the U.S. , Secretary of Defense Harold Brown said the combat between/ Iran and Iraq has gone beyond skirmishes, but it "is not a major war." Speaking on CBS/TV's pro­gram Face the Nation, Brown said, ''I think it is very danger­ous to all countries in the region and its potentially dangerous to the peace of the world." 
The Baghad radio version of fighting in Shatt all Arab said Iraqi forces destroyed five Iran­ian gunboats and ''destroyed the installations of the base" at 'Khosr 

-------------------~--------...,..-----------~---------­


l\TetlJscL=l=~==·e~~~-=S========~====================M==oo=d=~='~=p=tem==re=r=22='=19=s=o~=a=~~2
by The Observer and The Associated Press 
A Los Angeles attorney has sued author Joseph Wambaugh for $1 million and claims the writer defamed him in the book, "The Onion Field." Irving A. Kanarek claims in his suit that a movie made from the book portrays him as "incompetent, a buffoon and as a defense counsel who deliberately attempts to obstruct the administration of justice without legal, professional or ethical cause or ex­cuse." Kanarek filed the Superior Court suit on Friday. He was defense counsel for Jimmy Lee Smith, one of the defendants portrayed in The Onion Field, the story of the 
.murder ofa Los Angeles policeman in 1963. Both Smith and 
his companion were sentenced to life imprisonment for the 
killing. 

Omar Nelson Bradley, the nation's only living five/star general, marks a special 30th anniversary today, one that no other American has ever celebrated. It was on Sept. 22, 1950, that Bradley was elevated to fivestar rank, joining Dwight D. J:o,isenhower, Douglas MacArthur, George Marshall, and Henry H. "Hap" Arnold. Aides said no special celebration was planned to mark the occasion, because that's the way the 87/year/old general wanted it. 
Pope John Paul II, in his sharpest attack on abortion to date, yesterday condemned abortion as "a great assault on the conscience, a great disgrace, a great pain." In a clear rejection ofdemands by some Italian politicians that he stop calling for the repeal of Italy's liberal abortion law, the pontiff told a crowd of 50,000 gathered at St. Peter's Square for his noon blessing: "the (Roman Catholic) Church does not want to judge anybody, but it must present evidence ·of the truth The Church knows that every attempt against the child's life in the womb ofthe mother, is a great assault on the conscience, a great disgrace, a great pain. And so till' t hnrch wants to help, to serve." 
President Carter will be questioned about his brothers' dealings with the Libyan government by the special Senate subcommittee probing the matter, its chairman said yesterday. Sen. Birch Bayh, D-Ind., said the questioning will probably be Wednesday morning at the White House. "We think we may have to ask a few questions of the President to fill in some of the gaps," Bayh said. "We won't call him as a public witness. We may go down to the White House, some ofus, and ask him the questions. And thenI am anxious to get this behind us." "We'll consolidate all the facts and enunciate all the questions that have been raised and then basically let that be pubh," Bayh said. 
Members of the Spiritual Walk for World 
Peace and the Preservation of ~other earth hit a roadblock in their march from California to Washington, D.C., Sat­urday when Indiana state police told them walking along interstates was illegal. a group made up largely ofAmerican Indians continued their cross/country trek yesterday along 
U.S. 40 rather than Interstate 70 after state police agreed to provide the marchers with an escort to the IndianaOhio border. Some 125 persons, including representatives of 80 North American Indian tribes, are participating in the walk, which began inSacramento, Calif, onJune 1, said Perry Seely, 27, Davis, Calif., a spokesman for the group. A member ofthe Wyott tribe, Seely says the group is walking across the country to protest a list of issues ranging from nuclear wast disposal and uranium mining on Indian lands to the military draft and arms spending. 
One of every four girls born in the United States will be raped or molested by the time she is 18 years old, according to one of the speakers at a conference on violence against women. Furthermore, 1.8 million Americah woman have been beaten by their husbands and probably "many more" cases go unreported, another speaker said. Those were some of the statistics presented to the 700 women from 30 states and several foregn countries who attended the four­day National Conference on Violence Against Women that ended here yesterday, The women, incl~ding participants from Israel, West Germany and Canada, crowded into workshops to listen to victims describe how they were attacked by men. Workshop leader Deborah Flick, an in­structor at the University of Colorado, contended that all women are victims of violence, whether they are raped or simply afraid to walk alone at night. 
Celebrated folk sin2ers of the 196os ­
Odetta, Tom Paxton and Peter \'arrow -performed at Carnegie Hall on behalf of a cause of the 1980s -the elimination of unnecessary blindness for an estimated 30 million people in developing countries. The concert Sat­urday night "Hootenanny" -also featured singers Bob Gibson, John Herald, Peter Rowan andJohn Sebastian. The performance benefited the Society for Epidemiology and Voluntary Assistance, a foundation based in Chelsea, Mich. The foundation is working in Nepal to eliminate preventable >lindness. 
Warm and windy today with a 5o percent chance ofthunderstorms. Highs in the upper 70s to low 80s. Showers ending and turning much cooler tonight with lows in the low to mid 50s. Partly cloudy and comfortable Tuesday with highs in the upper 60s. 
Inside Monday 

A Walk with an Alumnus-



Design Editor: Ryan 'shoot me' Ver Berkmoes Ass't Design Editors: Patty Hulley, Monica Gu~le Night Techniczan:Rich Fischer Copy Editor: Kim Parent News Editor: Margie Brassil Sports Layout: Beth Huffman, Michael Ortman Typists:$ue Sulentic Linda Hewitt ND Day Editor: Bob 'sniffies' Bemoskie Photographer: Chris Salvino  
The Observer (USPS 598 920) Is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer Is publishedby the students of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $20 per year($1 0 per semester) by writing The Obnrver, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. S~tcond class postage paid, Notre Dame. Indiana 46556. The Obnrver Is a member of the Associated Press. All reproductionrights are reserved.  

TRAININGSESSIONS 
for new membersofthe Undergraduate Schools Committee 
Dates: September 22-24 
Time: 7:00pm 

Place: LaFortune TV Lounge 

Any COLLEGE OF SCIENCE STUDENT INTERESTED IN REPRESENTING 
THE College of· Sclenc.e on the 
Academic Council should submit 
Nome and btlef Statement of 

Putpose befote Sept.26th to: 
Stud•nt council c/o Th• Offtc:• of Dean of Scl•nce Rm 229 Hl•"wlc.nd Science 
Why do they come back? For three years now, every autumn, I have looked incredulouslyat the alumni, thinking they were crazy, and wonder­ing why? Aren't they happy with who they are and where they're at that they have to constantly­relive m~mories of a time long gone? 
As students here at ND and SMC, its hard to understand what it is they find so important to come back here for. We're-constantly disap­pointed by the buraucratic management of the administrations that never seem to· care about what we want. And we always want changes that don't come fast enough. The rules frustrate us: pareitals, forbidden kegs and parties, visitation hours, etc., etc. And when something major occurs, like the recent off-campus crime wave, or overcrowding, we blame the administrations for not being effective. From our perspective all they seem to want from us is more money and control of four years of our lives. So, who wants to come back and relive that?! 
Last summer, my self-appointed '"big broth­er," Joe-an alumnus of two years-told me to relish my senior year, to enjoy and cherish the time I have left here. And I laughed saying, "Joe, I can't wait to get out of this place." He just smiled wisely at me. 
Joe came back this weekend. KnowingJoe, it wasn't so much for the game that he came back for, but the chance to "be back" again and see some of his friends. Now, one month into my senior year, I had begun to rethink my statement about leaving this place, except, I still wasn't quite sure why. We walked for an hour around the campus to some of the places few alumni ever get back to, butJoe needed to walk there, and I went with. The warm early autumn wind blew gently through the trees as we walked down Saint Mary's Avenue. Soon that road will be colored gold as the trees begin to change, but right now, there was only a stray shade lighten­ing the green. We walked around Saint Joe's Lake, listening to the music which came down from Holy Cross Hall. 
It was a lazy afternoon. The kind on which most students close their books, unable to study, and go out to the quads and greens for frisbee and football. As we walked, Joe and I talked about what it is like to leave here when you graduate from ND or SMC. "What you leave is those quiet moments lighting a candle at the grotto. These kind of lazy afternoons and the people you stay up with until four in the morning making popcorn,")oe explained. 
" 

"ND and SMC are like a four year retreat," he said, as we stood by the cross at the end of Calvary. "He can touch you here. And you grow inwardly. But its hard to take that with you when you leave. It's all too big on the outside, and there are no rules or rectors to guide you. It's hard to stop and remember Him. But here, His presence is all around you!" 
I began to understand. What you learn in the textbooks, stays or goes as you need it. The buildings and landscape never change. But, the time here, spent with the friends you shared four years of growing and becoming with, is gone. But, when you come back, there is still that feeling of peace and tranquility that was never gained from a textbook. Its preserved here in all the dreams that everyone who has walked down the avenue and has lighted a candle here, has dreamed. 
As)oe and I walked by the cemetary, we turned in and walked to the site where Father Sorin is buried. "He had a dream,"Joe explained to me, "and he built this place to fulfill that dreamY The French sisters who built Saint Mary's had a similar dream. Who carries on that dream? The people who come here to learn and dream. The people who come back to make sure that this place will always continue to be that retreat. A place to be and feel His presence and recall and remember the ideals and dreams shared with friends in their youth. And each time they come back, as Joe did this weekend, they take away into their lives those dreams and ideals, again, to keep them a part of their lives. 
The Observer ' Monday ,September 22, 1980-page 3 

Crime continues 

Assault, robbery mar weekend 
by Mary Fran Callahan Senior Staff Reporter 

Another assault and robbery occurred yesterday morning, this time at 902 Notre Dame Avenue, while house occupants slept, according to a resident who ·reported the theft, by a "lone youth," of a portable TV radio and a 35 mm camera to the 
Observer. 
When a guest who was sleep­ing rolled over, he frightened the intruder, who then hit him on the head with a stereo turn­table he was carrying. The guest sust:.ined what the resident, who did not wi~h to be iden­tified, called "quite a gash." The cut, however, did not require stitches. 
The guest then attempted to tackle the assailant, but the youth fled out tbe front door and ran north on Notre Dame, according to the resident. 
Eight people were staying in the house at the time; and were awakened when th~y heard the struggle ensuing in the living room. A resident promptly con­tacted the police. 
"They were cooperative, but they wanted positive identica­tion which we could not give since it was dark and we were groggy," the resident said. 
In the process of trying to sever stereo cords, the youth borrowed a kitchen knife. When he fled from the house, he dropped the knife. Police, consequently, have been able to obtain fingerprints from its handle. 
An occupant who was staying upstairs got up to go the hathroom and noticed "one or two youths," according to the resident, outside a window. The next thing the occupant heard was "a thud"-the impact of the turntable on the sleeping guest's head. 

The resident expressed his concern over the crime. 
"It's alarming the number of people that have gotten away; that bothers me. I don't see how there can be such a quantity of successful robberies in the ar­ea," he said. 
All of the house's doQrs were locked, but the assailant en­tered through an open window. The resident and his house­mates are now going to seek additional protection. 
"I'm considering getting in touch with the landlord for some protection," he conclud­
!d. 
Safety rule violations 
Journalist indicts Japan's nukes 
by Minoru Inaba associated Press Writer 
Japan's nuclear power plants are mostly maintained by ill­trained day laborers who vtolate safety rules and under-reran their exposure to radiatton, ·says ajapanese journalist who 
worke in the plants. 
Freelance l'ournalist Kunio 
Horie also c aims the utility 
companies that own the plants 
isnore or tolerate safety viola­
tiOns and use day laborers to 
avoid paying benefits or higher 
wages. 
Horie worked for seven 
monthsin three different plants 
as a manual labor-er, one of 
thousands who drift from plant 
to plant under sub-contracts. 
He has written a book about his 
experiences, ''Nuclear 
"Gypsies". 
The title comes from the 
name given to job-hungry day 
laborers who work at one plant 
one day and another the next. 
Horie said he and his col­leagues at one nuclear power plant in the state of Fukut were ordered to use a towel to wipe radioactive water off reactor pans. 
" It's an anachronism for a supposedly ultra-modern nucle­ar facility, isn't it!" Horie. askec;l in an Associated · Press interview. 
In a plant· io Fukushima state, Horie wrote, he told one of his colleagues that a moni­toring device showed he had higher than allowed radioactive contamination on his boots. 
The worker casually sug­gested Horie try a different monitoring device, a "gener­ous" one that showed a lower oevel. 
As Horie passecl the second monitor "safely," the man smiled and said, '"now you know better. " 
In another incident described in the book, plant officials in charge of safety operations said nothmg when a worker com· plained of the heat and tore off his protective headgear. 
Many of the "nuclear gyp· sies'' falsify the level of radia­tion they've received to please their employers and stay on payroll, Hone wrote. 
Japanese government statis­tics say 34,1 f5 people were sub­contracted to nuclear power plants in 1978. Utilities kept only 782--mostly engineers and· manager~--on the regular pay· roll. 
More than 111,000 day labor· ers have been used since the first plant was built in 1966. The statistics say an average subcontracted warder received radiation twice as high as those on the regular payroll. 
Officials of Tokyo Electric Power Co. and the Ministry of International Trade and Indus­try said it was uneconomical to hire all full-time employees. 

They said nuclear plant work· 
!rs absorbed on the avera~e 
only 0.39 rems of radiation tn 
1978, far lower than the official­
ly setlimits of 5 r £ 
A r m is th e~s tr a year.
0
e e u~ll . !De~s~re

for absorbed radtatton tn ltvtng­
· A al h
ttssue. norm c est X-ray 
Produ es b tw 0 02 d 0 03
cS . e . een · an · 
rems. ct~nttsts say the avc:r­
~ge Amencan absorbs ·approx­
tmately 0.15 rems a year from 
natural and man/~~de s~urces. 
Toyozo Terashtma, chtef re­
searcher and vice director ofthe 
National Institute of Radiologi­
cal Sciences, said, "'practically 
nothing is known about the 
effect of low-level radiation in 
humans, but we have enough 
theoretical studies and animal 
tests to say that it's negligi­
ble." 
Terashima conceded there 
were no worthwhile medical 
studies of]apan's nuclear plant 
workers, but said, "There are 
no radiation victims among 
thein." 
The Labor Ministry has a co pensation fund for the victims of nuclear radiation. No money has ever gone to nuclear plant workers. 
Kazuyuki Iwasa, 57, a former Osaka City plumber, is the Of!!Y citizen to have complained offi­cially that he became sick because of working at a nuclear power plant. 
He told the AP that he received radiation burns on the skin inside his right knee while at work in 1971 at a Fukui olant run by the]apan Atomic P~wer Co. 

I~asa said he was employed 
by a subcontractor at the bot· 
tom of a pyramid of companies 
headed by Japan Atomtc and 
was assured by officials that his 
jOb was radiation-free. 
He said his present ailments 
include leukemia, hi~h blood 
pressure and heanng and 
speaking difficulties, but that 
no doctors except for a derma­
tologist agree they were radia­
tion-caused. The power com­
pany argues that Iwasa was 
exp?s~d to only 0.001 rems of 
radtatton. 
The. dermatologist, Dr. Mino­
ru Tashiro of Osaka University, 
said there was no doubt that 
Iwasa's skin burns were caused 
bv nuclear radiation. 
'I've seen many skin burn 
patients who were exposed 
to excessive X-
rays," he said. the doct'?r s~id Iwasa wDre a pocket momtormg device able to pick up amma
d' t' Sk b g

ra ta ton. tn urns are
d b b T h' 

ca~se ,r eta rays, as .tro
Satd adding that later tests sho~ed there were stron beta rays where t.he man wor~d. 
Iwasa sued for dama es in 
but his suit still
i:

1974
ci" ~ pen mg. 

Stud. Affairs 
•

meettng .tonight 
Student yovernment will be sponsoring an organizational meeting tonite for anyone in­terested in getting involved in Student Affairs. The meeting will be held in the Engineering Auditorium at 7:30 p.m. Cab­inet leaders will give expla­1 ntions ofwhat the positions will involve. There wll be sign-ups for interviews for the many positions available. "At the very. least the meeting will be an informative session of student life at Notre Dame" said Paul Riehle, student body president. 
A view ofthe dome as you have never seen it before ... hopefuUy. [photo by Chris Salvino] 







VETERANS 
Your Experience
Is Wort~ Money! 
If you left the military as an E-4 with 3 years of service, you can earn $1,360.44 per year in the Army Reserve. That's $80.52 for one weekend each month plus full pay for 2 weeks annual ·training with your local Reserve unit. 
Check out. the opportunities available to you now with your Army Recruiter. Call 
Sgt. Young 219-234-4780 


THE ARMY RESERVE 


SENIOR CLASS BAHAMAS TRIP WILL, FLY \ AS SCHEDULED OCT. 19-25 
OCT. 13 -ORIENTATION/ TRAVEL NIGHT 
Any questions? Stop in at Student 
· Activities or see Mike Gies, Anne Fink (NO), 1 Donna Shannon or Martha Hausmann (SMC). $50 DEPOSITS ARE NON-REFUNDABLE 

"Refrigerators 
dorm room size 
nudents rates 

CALL 
TAYLOR 



RENTAL 
277-2190 
.1427N.Ironwood...4 
The Observer 
Future applications 
SMC Sponsers Career Days 
by Susan King and Career Developement !em they have had in the past. 
"Women, Work and the Mary Elizabeth DePauw and a This has made it more con­Liberal Arts", is the theme of fulltime homemaker and vient for students to come. College to Career Days, spon­mother who has a B.A. in' There will be three talks sored by Saint Mary's Student secondary education and a given at the same time on 
Goverment, the Career Coun­M.A. .in guidance and coun­three separate career subjects. sel Center and the Alumna seling, Nancy Foldesi. The speakers will talk on their Club. The program will begin Vice-president ofAcademic careers, what college courses today and run through Wed­Affairs, Joan McCarthy, is are beneficial and they will nesday in Stapelton Lounge, chairman of the program this give an inside view of the LeMans Hall, Saint Mary's. year. McCarthy began organ­profession. The lectures will 
On Wednesday, Sept. 24 at izing the program last year be informal gatherings in 7 p.m. in Carroll Hall, there when faculty and student which students are encourag­will be a panel discussion in­goverment were asked to ed to ask questions. The volving four women with four make recommendations for speakers are all women, ex­different lifestyles. These the speakers. There have been ceptforoneman, DavidNoor, women will discuss their ca­past career days, but each year a well-known financial anal­reers, why they choose their more preperation goes into yst. All the fields are very well professions and will answer the program to make it even represented, every speaker any questions. The panel in­more successful than the pre­has a Liberal Arts education cludes Director of ResidencE vious year. McCarthy specially and many are SMC graduates. Life Sr. Karol]akowski, Dean scheduled the lecture times .Last night the activities be­of Student Affairs Kathleen this year so they would not gan with a keynote address Rice, Director of Counseling interfere with classes, a prob-given by Paula Lawton Bev­
ington at Carroll Hall. Bev­
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~, 
ington, a SMC graduate, re­cieved a].D. degree from Yale Law School, has been involved
ISophomoreClass Lotter)~ 
in numerous volunteer organ­izations such as the Peace.
I§J For Michigan State ~ 
Corps, and is now married, the
I§J Q 
vice-president of an energy management company and
the mother of eight chidren. Bevington was described as
~ STEPAN CENTER ~ "the total Saint 
Mary's Woman". All interested students are
I MondaySept. 22 at 8:00 I 
encouraged and welcomed to come to College to Career
Ill $12 per ticket -1 
Days at SMC. Pamphlets on 
1§1 does NOT include transportation g the program are available in the dining hall.

IQI l§l
! Must be present with Soph.ID to"win ~ .See I 'Career Days'' schedule at 11!!!1 II!!!!! bottom of pa~:e. 
/ 
IN· CONCERT~ ln..the-round With a Revolving Stage 
. 

T/Jis youngster was spotted ata tailgater before Saturday's game. Unlike many others he probably didn't care where thP bookstore was, andpreferred Gerbers' to Pabst. [photo by john .Macor] 
FRI. OCT. 1 0 8:30 PM N D A. C. 
TICKETS:$9.00/$8.00 all seats reserved-Excellent seats ore still availabh 
A.C.C. box office and River City Records. _. 5~970 U.S 31 North,
277 4242 
3 mtles north of co Uf 
---· ~--------------~---------'--------­
Accidents abound at SMC during hectic Friday night 
by Anne jane Drega/la 

Two accidents occurred with­in the space of twenty minutes Friday night on the roadway between LeMans and Moreau Hall. 

·•w: 
~:}5 
. '·2:35 . 
3:45 Socml Work~!&.; 
3:45 _ . . or~ey;.h 
3:45 Elementa~ Educa~lOP, · 6:00. Pubhc. Relat10~ 6:00 . . rTheraptst 
At about 10 p.m. a Volks­wagen bug, driven by two off­campus Saint Mary's students caught fire. Dana Jeffers, the driver, and SarahJohnson were pulled from the car by NO stu­dents Sean Dempsey and John Flood. Despite the fact that many students were standing in 
the area at the time, "Everyone froze . .lweryone yelled, but 1'10 one acted," remarked Demp­sey. 
When they noticed the smoke coming from the rear of the car, Dempsey, Flood, and a third fril!nd pulled the two girls from the car. There was a delay in putting out the fire when no one could find the fire extin­guisher, according to Jeffers. 
SaintMary's security, and the Notre bame and South Bend Fire Departments arrived after the fire had finally been put out by an unidentified student. The fire was attributed to either a break in the gas line or an elect­rical short in the engine. · 
About twenty minutes later a car speeding through the park­ing lot at approximately 60 
m.p.h. collided with a car driven by Kathleen Engler and then 
sped on. A security patrol car, chasing th«:! speeding car, stop­ped pursuit to check on the · students. Maryann Moore, and Colleen Healy, who were in the car with Engle were all right. Engle was taken to the hospital to be checked, bl)t was not 
(};00 Sp~rtscll~_ter .:. seriously injured. -1~:00 ..···· ...·. ·. ··. ,,'·;,. ~lDtscuss10n 
::w_.eJfiesdayj Se.iptew_her .2_._.4 . . · r....:r • t • /

/·· ··· ·• ·· . · . . . . . .t .t 1s or~ea 
....· Col;lnselor.:.,di-• •• ·.···•··•·• ·.. ·Engirte¢£Sf meeting 



tonight I. 
The Notre Darrie Historical . Society is sponsoring its first · •• meeting tonight at 7:30 p.m. in 
· the Library Lounge. A presen­tation will be given by Dr. Samuel Shapiro, professor of history, on the C.I.A. 
The Observer Monday ,September 22, 1980-page 5 


READING PILING 
UPON YOU? 


'-~ 

Would you like to get out from under all those books? 
We'll show you how to: 
• 
Raise your grade point average, and have more • End all-night cramming sessions. free time for yourself. ' 

• Do all your studying in 1/3 the time it's now 

• 
Read 3 to 1 0 times faster and with better taking you. comprehension. 



Attend a Free Introductory Lesson 
• 
Increase your reading speed dramatically on the spot. 

• 
Learn about advanced study techniques. 



Don•t get left behind because there is ..too much to read!• COME SEE US TODAY! 
SCHEDULE OF FREE LESSONS A.C.C. Room C-129 Today & Tomorrow 3:30 & 7:00pm 
j 
J 
J
EVELYN WOOD READING DYNAMICS j 
Editorial Board and Department Managers j 
Editor-in-Chief ... ....... Paul Mullaney SMC Nf'ws Editor ........... Mary Leavitt 

Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
Managing Editor ............. Mark Rust Sports Editor ..........'..... Beth Huffman 
The Observer is an independent newspaper published by the studems of the 
j
Edrton.als Editor ........... Mike Onufrak 
University of Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's Collese. It does not 1;1ecessarily 
Features Editor ............ Molly Woulfe
Senror Copy Editor ......... Lynne Daley 
reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported 
Photo Editor .................. ) ohn Macor
NeU's Editor .................. Pam Degnan
as accurately and as objectively as possible. Editorials represent the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, opinions, and letters are the views l£xec111ive IN~ws Editor Tom Jackman Rusmess Manager ......... Greg Hedges of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community, and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged. SMC Executit•e Editor .. i-.1argie Brassil Production Manager. John McGrath 


(continued from page 1] 
laug~d and said,'Oh, . that's thirty years away.' The people said it would be possible to splice together the genes from two different species, essentially to mend a gene, to repair a gene.They said 'Oh, that's im­possible. That's fifty yearsaway.' Both have now been done. 
I think that the break­hroughs, which I see to be very negative in their implications, are going to be happening faster and faster, particularly now that the Supreme Court has ruled just recently, inJune, that companies c~n now patent life forms. They can own life.That means there's big money in this now. Thestock­brokers and people who sell stock in companies are very excited about the newest growth industry. You can make a lot of money by designing new life forms and patenting them and .selling them. So with that in­centive in making ·money, I would guess that Dow Chemical and DuPont and G.c. and I.T.T. and exxon are going to be in this business with a lot of research 
money and a lot happening very quickly. 
Q: What do yo11 think can be done to 
stop or slow this process down? 
·A: It's very difficult, when the society has a world view that problems are solved by tech­nology. The only way it will happen is ifenough people think about this,analyze it and say no. It's so counter to the things we believe in morally and to the I?rinciples of life on earth that we are going to put it on the shelf and say no. 'i'\.m I optimistic about that? No, not really. 
Q: What precedents dtd Louise joy Brown (the fi"rsttest-tube baby) set? 
A: The precedent that sets is that we as a society aregoing to accept tampering with the re­productive system.For years in our society, hundreds of years, the production of life, human life, was tied directly, cul­turally,philosophically, reli­giously to the sexual mating ofa man and a woman. The birth of the first test-tube baby is the first step going away from that. " 
Q: Do you think weshouldeliminate research in genetic engineering al­together, or just perhaps keep t"t out of company control, out of the market­place? 


Call For Manuscripts 
for 



JUGGLER 
The Notre Dame Student magazine of the literary And Visual Arts 
We welcome and encourage contri­butions from all students; Any creative gesture relating to any of the intellectual arts. Not only poetry and fiction, but essays, proofs, photos, prints and all important works of the written word will be enthusiastically considered. Submit work in room 309 O'Shaug­nessey now, & throughout the year. 
.______________111111!111__ 








SCIENCE AND ENGINEERING MAJORS: TAKE OUT INSURANCE NOW 
How about an "insurance" policy that your science or engineering degree will really be used? It would be nice. Especially considering the work you put into such a degree. 
The Air Force will use your talents. We have openings for young men and women majoring in selected sci­ence and engineering academic fields ...like-Aeronautical, Aerospace, General and Electrical Engineering, Mathematics, Physics and Computer Technology, and many more. 
One way to get into these jobs is through Air Force ROTC. Our AFROTC scholarship can help you finan­cially so you can concentrate on getting your degree. AFROTC is a great opportunity to· help yourself through college, and the Air Force is a great opportunity to really use what you learn. 
Look into the Air Force ROTC program at 
your campus. It's good insurance. 
Contact Cap~. Gottrich at 283-6634 for additional information. 
Ga)eway to a great way af life. 
and said he felbt "pretty good"
[continued from page 1] 

about his showing. As to the question of whether he emerged .successful in the debate. 
~ ~er, the independent said, . I'll sure sleep well I wdl leabe that to the judg­tomght,'' ' Reagan said. As he ment of the great viewing audi­left the convention center, he ence.''
said that asking a debater how At the White House, Stuarthe did is ''like asking an ac'tor on Eizenstat, Carter's domestic af­opening night to criticize the fairs adviser, said Reagna hadplay." 
taken "extraordinarily conserva­Anderson met his supporters tive" positions. 
1~\l Ltmtt: 2 TtXperperson i~ij ~~~~ (Juniors Only-140 tix total) t 
::~:::::::::::::::;::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::1::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::)!:: 


.. .Debate 
He also said there is no chage 

in Carter's insistence that he 
wants to debate Reagan one-to­
one "and not initially with Mr. 
Anderson.'' 
Much of the debate revolved 

around economics. And Carter. 
"Gov. Reagan is not respon­

sible for what has happened over 
the past four years, nor am I,'' 
said Anderson, warning that 
inflation could surge again. 
''The man who should be here 
tonight to respond to those 
charges chose no to attend. 
Reagan said his proposed 10 ' percent federal income tax cut "Has been my opponent,.· by 
the man who isn't here tonight." 
In a debate-day campaign com­

mercial, Reagan suggested car­
ter didn't show up because he 
didn't want to answer for high 
inflation and high unemploy­
ment. 
Anderson accused Re~an and 

carter of trying to outbid each 
other on tax cuts. He said 
Reagan wants a tax cut now, 
Carter proposes a $27.5 billion 
cut next year, and he opposes 
both. ''This is no time for a tax 
cut_in view ofthe incipient sugns 
of renewed inflation,'' he said. 
In fact, he called for new taxes, 

proposing excise . taxes on to­
bacco and alcogol to be put into 
a trust fund for urban programs 
and pluggin~ anew for a SO-cent 
a gallon excise tax on gasoline, 
saying it would curb consump­
tion of imported oil and provide 
revenues to cut Social Security 
taxes by half. 
In addition, Andersoin said 

federal spending should be cut 
by $11.3 billion to curb inflation. 
Reagan said that made no 

sense to him. ''Why take it in 
the first place if you're going to 
give it back?" he said. 
He said the same thing about 

the three-year, 30 percent tax 
cut he proposes. Reagan said 
Carter calls that inflationary. 
The Republican nominee said he 
doesn't see why it is inflaionary 
to cut ta.Xes and leave the money 
in the hands of the people, 
rather than have the government 
collect andd spend the same 
money.· 

.~· 

'· NDvs.GA.TEC 


The Observer 

Resting between leaps and bounds this gymnast takes in the view ofthe South Quad [photo by john MacorJ 
...LaFollette 
[continued from page 6] 
search, which is one area of gent:tic research, where you try to find out what causes diseases. Ifyou can discover that exposure to benzene, as a chemical, causes chromosome damage, (and to do that, you've got to analyze people's .chromosomes) that research, I think, is legitimate. Then what do you do about it? That's the trick. If yo.u eliminate benzene from people's environ­ment, so they ·don't bn:athe benzene, that's a good solution. If you decide to go into people's bodies and fix their genes so they can breathe the benzene and not get sick, then that is wh;tt I'd be opposed to. 
Q: C'afl yor1 tlesaibe the two book.r yo11 are jJromoliflg? 
A: In relation to the talks I've been giving, one that's very obvious is WlxJ Slxmld Play God?, a book about genetic engineering that's been around about three years. It's probably the leading book on that subject and it's a very good book I recommend highly. The other book is a new hook, that's just on the book­shelf this month. It's called Efltropy and it's an analysis about how we go't to where we are today in terms of a world view. It's going back ami analyzing from Francis Bacon and Newton and DesCartes and up through today. The last four hundred years. How we got where we are and why it's not working. Why everyday you read in the news­paper about new problems and new crises. Most people are beginning to think the system is not working.You've got an energy cnsts, unemployment crisis. We have a drug crisis. We have a health crisis. The basic technological structures we live our world in are not working. Something is· going wrong somewhere. And I claim that 
what's wrong is we have the wrong world view.The whole way of looking at ,the world and · the way it is put together is wrong. We're based on a Newtonian mechanistic world view. What we have to base it on is what I call a mtropic world vi~w. This book explains a lot about that. It ~ives some thoughts for the fut\ire as to how we can build a more humane, a more caring, a more energy sensible society. I think it's a great'book. I hope the library gets some copies ofit and 
the students here read it. 




Molinelli!s works to be published 

Juniper Press, the student­
owned and operated publishing 
house at Notre Dame, an­
nounced this morning that it .will publish a book of Michael Molinelli's "Molarity" comic strips. The book, which will be released for sale sometime this fall, was chosen from nine sub­mitted manuscripts as this sem­ester's publication. 
The book will consist ofstrips 
from Molinelli's first two years 
at Notre Dame. The "Molarity" 
strips have appeared daily in The 
Observer for over three years. 
The strips are primarily known 
for their satire on the life of the 
Notre Dame student. 

Molinelli is a fourth-year architecture major from Briar­cliff, N.Y. , 
This will be Juniper Press' fifth book. The previously pub­lished books are: Quick as a Dodo, by Ralph Mcinerny (1977); Cleats, by George Berry, John Gelson, and Ken MacAfee (1978); Virgins and Martyrs, by Dolore Frese (1978); and ABeCedary: An Antic Alphabet, by Mcinerny (1979). 
Monday,September 22, 1980-page 7 
Where's the warhead ? 


Explosion cleanup begins 
Capt. Donald Schaefer, quoted a Pentagon source as 
DAMASCUS • Ark. (AP)-­spokesman at Little rock Air saying the Air Force planned to Heavy trucks, a bulldozer, a Force Base, declined to com­transport the warhead by con­helicopter and a crane were ment on why the equipment voy from the Damascus dite to moved into the debris-strewn was moved to the silo site. Little Rock Air Force Base, and pastureland where a Titan II "They're moving equipment then to another site for study. missile exploded and apparent­in there, but what the purpose In the past, the Air Force has ly hurled an unarmed nuclear is, I can't say," Schaefer said. contacted state law enforce­warhead several hundred feet ''I.think they are just moving ment officials to assist in the from its underground silo. thins around." transportation of nuclear wea­
The Air Force, which never Asked whether the purpose pons, accorking to)ack Dubose adnits the presence of nuclear was to recover a nuclear war­of the state Office of Emer­weapons in accidents involing head, Schaefer said, "I can't gency Services. strategic material, would not confirm or deny the presence of But Dubose said yesterday confirm the trucks were there to any nuclear warheads, so I morning that his office had not recover the warhead and move can't comment on that." been notified of any planned it to another site. Lt. Gen Lloyd R. Leavitt]r. of movement. 
But Lt. Col. Richard Steven­the StrategicAirCommancf at a "It's normal procedure than son a spodesman for the Strate­news conference Saturday re­when they form a convoy to ~ic air command, said it was an peatedly refused to confirm that move one of those warheads, 
'accurate assumption'' that a a nuclear •warhead existed at that they notify thi highway nuclear warhead would be­the site. The Washington Post patrol to assist," dubose said. moved from the site to Little Rock Air Force Base, if such a warhead was at the site. 
At least one state official said he was convinced that a nuclear warhead was hurled from the silo. But Sam Tatom, director of the state Department of Public 

dnves. pnnters and other pertpherals
Safety, said he did not believe it 

$100 Below list price! $749
was still at the missile silo site. 

Your m•crocomputer headquarters
' 'I believe that there was one 

AM Electron•cs •s the onl-y •ndept!naem computtH spec•allst m town whiCh oilers you reasonaole prrces .:md other accesso,.es "
there, but that it is not there 
now," he said. "J don't have 

TRS-80'" Lower cue modificat•on Mtcrotek MT-80 parallel pr~nter Modell MPI51 40·tr•c:kdilkdrlve
any evidence that they moved 

Character genera10r chtp. Wtlh 9 x 7 dot matnx adtuStabte W•th case power supply Installed The REAL lh•no S49U tractor feed. 132 columns $775 and extttnder caDie S350
anything. They're (Atr Force 

TRS-80'" Model II 64K smgle d11k
B-inch disk dnve1 for Modell and II Modell MPI 91 80-tr•ck d11k dnve.
officials more relaxed." 
dm1e •v•tem

Expands dtsk storage for W•th case. power supply
Ideal for many growtng bus•nesses
"I ani convinced that there 

enhanc~CI capab•l111es $695 ana exlunder cable
and ready 10 expand as you do 5560 
was a warhead, and if it is still 

STORE HOURS: J249 below hst prtcel $3650 
232-2441 

Tuesday -Fr1day 11 • 7 
there it's intact," he said. 

~ Saturday 11-S;;] 
A.M. Evenings
Electronics Complete in-store 
tatom said he and Gov. Bill 

MICfOCOmputefl
Clinton will tour the site Mon­

for peuonel end
service facility! 
bu11neu u1e
day. 
Work at the site yesterday afternoon was concealed from spectators behind a tarpaulin. 
Military radio transmissions monitored shortly after the predawn blast Friday indicated 

Canoeing In The Fall rescue workers had to hunt for the warhead among the other huge chunks of missile wreck­age scattered over the site ing rural north-central Arkansas. 
Brown, questioned on the CBS/TV program "Face the Nation," did say, however, "there was no destruction of a nuclear warhead.'' 
"There was never a time when a warhead was outside the security control of the Air Force," he said, adding that the nation's nuclear warheads cannot be detonated by acci­

Is The Best of Alii
dent "no matter what hap­pens.'' During a two/hour span yes­terday morning, a gelicopter 

Individuals &Grouos
arrived and 23 vehicles, includ­ing two flatved trucks and a 
. 
large boom, rolled into the 

Oldfather Canoe Rental 
area. Military guards toting M/16 rifles blocked the en­


607 W. Plymouth Ave. 
trance to the missile com­pounds while Arkansas State 

Goshen, Indiana 46526
Police cars blocked secondary entrances. Military vehicles were thor­oughly searched before they 

219-533-2295 
were allowed inside the area. 





HELP! 


We need your help in Student Government Organizational Meeting 7:30 
TONIGHT! 
EngineeringAuditorium (Let'ssee thosefaces who signed up at Activities Night 


' :: \) •' ~t:~' 

-The Observer 


Ode to Harry 0. 
by Louie Somogyi and Michael Ortman 
Outlined against a warm, blue September sky, At the place they call Notre Dame, Was a young man on the sidelines, Needing to regain some fame. 
But the situation was dismal, As the Irish lost their lead, And with only four seconds left to play, They needed an extraordinary deed. 
Miracles have been numerous here, Routine as A, B, C, Perhaps made most famous, By a quarterback who wore number three. 
Now this young man on the sidelines, Also wore number three, But this guy was thought to be anything, Except a hero to be. 
You see, he was the kicker, Only five-feet, eleven high, Upon whose shoulders the game would rest, With a 51-yard try. 
Some fans were mi~hty sceptical, A few were filled wtth ra~e, When this little Harry Oliver, Marched on to center stage. 
"You fools, you fools," some people thought, '' What can you expect? From this little man, who just today, Lost most of our respect.'' 
For just 15 minutes earlier, In this very game, you s<;e, Little Harry Oliver botched a crucial P.A.T. 
He didn't even kickoff, For he had no powerful toe. So SO yards into the wind? Who are the coaches? Curly, Larry & Moe? 
But oh ye men of little faith, Shan't you ever concede, That when everything else seems lost, Notre Dame .becomes a special breed? 
Houston and South Carolina, Just to name but two, Are recent cardiac trophies, For this 'never-say-die' crew 
And so with all of this in mind, The crowd rose dramatically, As a nervous Harry Oliver, Placed down his kicking tee. 
And over the great partisan crowd, There fell a haunting hush, Slowly, anxiously waiting, For the game's finishing touch. 
The ball came off of Harry's foot, With a mighty burst of speed. The only thing that could be heard, Was a clicking Rosary heed. 
The ball headed slowly, Towards the goal post bar. ''Good Lord,'' the fans whispered, "It's going pretty far." 
The ball passed between the uprights, And over the crossbar too. "Good God, I don't believe it, " screamed one, "Harry Oliver's kick fell through." 
Throughout the wild multitude, There rose a joyous cry, As the referees and players as well, Raised their arms up high. 
Remember always, The odds, great or small, Notre Dame men, Can win over all. 
So therefore we give, This small tribute, To little Harry Oliver, And his mighty boot. 


Monday ,September 22, 1980-page 8 
• 
.. .29-27 
[continued from page 12] 

the way in the first place. He was encouraging me. When you've 
got  the  whole  team  backing  
you,  you  just  can't  do  any  
wrong."  

And Courey, who completed 6 oh 3 attempts for a total of62 yards with a touchdown and a pair of interceptions by W ol­verine Marion Body, under­stood the switch to Kiel. 
"If I were coaching, I'd have done the same thing," said the senior signal-caller. "At that point in the game, we needed a stronger arm than mine. 
"Hey, I'm just happy we won." 
Phil Carter, the Irish running back who had grounded-out nearly every ru11hing play, play­ed Moses in the victory, racing through the parted blue (Red) sea. Thefiesty5-10, 193-pound sophomore had his second game in a row over the century mark, gaining 103 yards on 30 carries along with hauling in an all-important pass from Kiel in the closing seconds for a nine yard pickup. 
The Irish defense suffered through some mental lags in the contest, finding it difficult to contain the Michigan scoring squad. 
Bo Schembechler, the crafty Michigan mentor, played the quarterbackswitch late in the second quarter-a move that sparked the Big Ten power. Sophomore Rich Hewlett, the relatively ineffective starting quarterback for the W olver­ines, was pulled in favor of senior]ohn Wangler. 
In less than five minutes Wangler., a Royal Oak, Mich. native, directed theWolverines to 14 points a tie ballgame go­ing into halftime. Wanlger, utilizing wide receiver Anthony Carter, tailbacks Stan Edwards and Lawrence Ricks, marched the Blue to touchdown num­ber-one. 
Following an interception by Marion Bone, Wangler and his squad got a second shot at the goal. Things looked dim for the Michigan club with less than a minute remaining in the half with fourth down and four to go, but the clever Wolverine mentor went for the fake field goal with Hewlett, holder for Haji-Sheikh, passing the pig­skin to hdwards for 12 yards and a first down. Tight end Norm Betts plunged over to score just seconds later. 
Michigan hit the down Irish early in the third quarter for a third TO, taking the lead 21-14 after a uucial Haji-Sheikh con­version. 
Things looked dim for the trailing Irish until John Krimm stepped in front of Carter· and intercepted an er'ant Wangler pass. Krimm, the Irish ·corner­back from Columbus, Ohio, ran the ball all the way for a score, edging the Irish within one. 
Oliver, the soon to be hero for the Irish, missed the point­after-attempt with Koegel holding -staging the scene for the Moeller pair to reinstate· themselves in Irish hearts near­ly a quarter of play later. 
The final quarter saw the Blue and Green exchange scores 
with at least  one  unexpected  
play for the Irish.  
Pete  Holohan,  the  Irish  

flanker who demonstrated his throwing ability last season a­gainst South Carolina, was on the receiving end of a 31-yard pass from none-other than wide receiver Tony Hunter. The Hunter to Holohan combina­tion was the first play in a series of 11 needed for the Irish to score their final touchdown and bumb ahead of Michigan 26-21 with a two-point conversion failing. 
Michigan regained its lead with just0:41 left to play after some fancing running by Butch Woolfolk and a pass from Wangler deflected into the 
' hands of Craig Dunaway. 

With fans filtering out of Notre Dame Stadium Blair Kiel took charge of the Irish offense and eventually left Harry Oliver in the potential-hero role at the 34 yard line. 
And, of course, Harry came through. 
"This could only happen here," said an estatic Pat Kramer, defensive tackle for the Irish, after the game. 

.The Obsener_ 
-



T0 da~===============M=o=od=ay=,Sep==tem=ber==2=2,=19=8=0-p=ag=e=9 
Campus 
12:15 p.m., economics dept. development work­shop, "aspects of develop­ment and under develop­ment," prof. joan robinson, cambridge u., library lounge. 
2-7 p.m., college to career days, stapleton lounge (smc). 
6:30p.m., meeting, inter­national students organiza-­tion, Iafortune basement. 
7:30 p.m., film, "potem­kin," sponsored by com­munications . & theatre, washington hall, $1. 
8 p.m., lecture, "inflation & the crisis in economic theory (I)", joan robinson, cambridge u., galvin audi­torium. 
Homecoming 
Activities 
Recapped 
Homecoming was termed "a moderate success" by Dale Ann Robinson, Chairperson of Homecoming '80. Button distribution at the dining halls, the "Find the Blue" Observer contest, the banner contest, and the dance at Century Cerrt:er were the highlights of the past week's activities, besides the excite­ment caused by the Notre Dame-Michigan game Satur­day afternoon. 
This week's activites began Wednesday in the dining halls with the "Blue is Thru!" but­ton distribution. Thursday, the judging for the banner contest was completed. Linda Shanahan announced two third place winners with first place going to the "Angels" of Villa Angela. 
Scott Howell of Stanford Hall found the blue clue, which had been placed with cheerleader Nancy Dawson. Dawson, who had carried the hidden envelope with her all week, was described as living 
. in the domain of beautiful companions(B-P Beautiful People), being a cheerleader (Cheer, cheer for old Notre Dame), and having fair hair (of the three N D chevleaders living in B-P, she had the fair­est). Howell was the happy recipient of a Homecoming packet. The excitement ofthe game spoke for itself. Freshman Blair Kiel booted the ball 51 yards for the 29-27 Irish vic­tory over the Wolverines. Later that evening, Century Center was the scene of "An bvening of Dance," the Homecoming formal. John Bates, dance chairman, was pleased with •the attendance and noted that "it was our biggest crowd ever." Sqrne activities flopped, however. The car parade and car decorating contest did not draw any interest. The com­mittee decided that to get ND students psyched about Homecoming, minimum ac­tive participation should be encouraged, at least during the week. 


Molarity 
JJM, HOW IM:JULD YOU LIK£ TO COME. HOME WITH Ml: FOR 11-IE 
\..A!E:KE}Jt>? 






Michael Molinelli -­

Peanuts Olarles M. Schulz 
ACROSS 27 Stop 1 -Ben talking



The Daily Crossword 
Adhem 31 Ranch help 
5-point 32 Nllequeen 
(center of and name­
Interest) sakes, for 
10 Enrich short 
14 Mend 33 New Guinea 
15 Mueeof seaport 
poetry 34 Mary Baker 
16 Potpourri 35 Bright 
17 Take­student 
(change 36 Supply 
one's ways) 37 Knight 
20 Consistent 38 Bitter 
21 Goodcon· medicinal 
dillon powder 
22 Gardner 39 Split 
23 Ditty 40-Resign 
24 Colorless 42 Speculators 
Saturday's Puzzle Solved: 43 Oamltl 23 Klndot 44 Stiff hair sale 45 Certify 24 Korchnors 48 Approved game 52 Evenwlth 25 "l've-1" 



utmost (phrasaof 
effort disgust) 54 Passage 26 Prevln 55 Crazes 27 Lucid 56 Volcano 26 Martini 57 Cord-like garnish 58 Chic 29 Flutter 59 European 30 Require­
valley ments 32 Brags DOWN 35 Desk Items 1 Jewish 36 Zoo lnhab­
month ltants 2 Ruin 38 Make -tor 3 Russian (run to) 
city 39 Proportlon­4 Awkward al relation 5 In a weak 41 Good· 
way looking 6 Papal 42 Execrate vestment 44 Less con­7 Jewel or lroverslal 
attache 45 To a dis· 8 Feasted lance 9 Consider 46 Bustle 
10 Dangled 47 Jaunt 11 Dismounted 48 Latvian 12 Prevalent capital 13 VIgorous 49 Whit 
·one 50 Sicilian 18 Frolics commune 19 Dressed to 51 Cherished 11»-53 Wallop 
Get Involved! 
Student Government is accepting applications for three new cabinet positions:
Scholastic magazine is (finally) 
.· 

having its first organizational 
Off-Campus . meeting, Tuesday, Sept, 23, 7:00pm 

Transfer Stud:ent Orientation Publicity
We need to form staffs for 
. i 


writing, art, and· production. 
.;· ..

-' .. .• 

Applications available 
If unable to aHend, please leave a note 

at S.G. offices, 2nd Fir. Lafortune
indicating your Interest In the Student Activities Office. 

Deadline: Thurs. 5:00pm 

The OlJserver Monday ,September 22,'1980-page 1_0 



K.rimm's interception, tackle: big defensive plays in Irish win 
Mike Olenik Sports Writer 
In a day and a setting that will be recollected for many years to come, one performance beam­ed brtghtly in the wake of a­nother great team effort.Junior cornerbackJohn Krimm found himself making the the most pivotal of . the many game­breaking plays evident in Sat­urday's epic contest when he bolted for 49 yards and a touch­down ~fter intercepting John Wangler's pass late in the third quarter. 
The touchdown did more than signify a potential tie game. It was the igniting spark in what was a momentum-less third quarter for Notre Dam­it revived astalled offense and a tiring defense. 
In holding the ball for almost 11 minutes in the third quarter, Michigan had removed much of the wind from the Irish sails by taking a 21-14lead.Just when it seemed absolutely necessary for Notre Dame to stop the varied Wolverine offense, Krimm stepped up in front ofa pass intended for Anthony Carter and considerably bright­ened the Irish picture. Taking an escort of Notre Dame blockers led by Bob Crable, the Columbus, Ohio native weaved down the right sideline for probably the most important six points of his career. 
"They were running a curl pattern and I had deep cover­age. Tom DeSiato was suppos­ed to turn Anthony Carter in towards me so it was basically double coverage," said Krimm. "I was just in the right place to make the play. As soon as I looked . downfield I saw the opening and took off." 
ENGINEERING AND ARCHITECTURE STUDENTS Applications to be considered for. a position as 
STUDENT MEMBER of the ACADEMIC COUNCIL 
Are due in the office of the Dean of Engineering 
by , 

5:00 P.M. MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 22 
O'Laughlin Aud. Tuesday.Sept. 23 8:00pm GeneratAdmission S4 Students $2 
By sending the crowd mto their more eharacteristic fren­zy, Krimm's touchdown swung the all-important momentum back to the partisan Irish faith­ful. Heading into the fourth quarter with the crowd display­ing their regained enthusiasm, the Irish defense shut down the next two Michigan drives while the offense drove for a score of their own.to take the lead 26-21. 
With 2:53 remaining in the game, Michigan received t~e ball for what would be theu final possession. In the subse~ quent drive, Krimm once again came up with a key play when he broke up a second and ten yard pass to the ever-present Carter with a vicious hit on about the Notre Dame 25-yard line. 
The collision left both play­ers face down mo,mentarily, but as Krimm stated afterwards, "I was just dazed for a couple of seconds. Once I caught my breath I was fine." . Although Krimm's perform­ance was an outstanding in­dividual effort, he will be the first to tell you that Saturday's win belonged to the team as a whole. 
His first career interception 
was Notre Dame's first forced 
turnover of the young season, 
and it was the first interception 
returned for a touchdown since 
Dave Waymerdid it twice in last 
year's Miami finale in Yokyo. 
To attribute this weekend's 
win to one or two performances 
would be misguided, especially 
after witnessing the post-game 
lockeroom scene. The emo­
tional atmosphere affected all 
that were present, with John 
Krimm summing up the incred­
ible day as well as anyone. 
"Its still so hard to believe. 
Once we come back down, we'.ll 
be able to look back on what 
actually happened. Itwas just a 
great team effort." ' A great team effort aside, it is 
still the individual efforts of 

Notre DanJ_~ sweeps ICC 5-4, 5-l at home 
by Dave Irwin Sports Writer 

The Notre Dame baseball tea~ upped its record to 4-0 with a sweep ofillinois Chicago­Circle, 5-4 and 5-1, Sunday at Kline Field. 
Junior Tim Prister pulled the Harry Oliver heroics for the Irish in the first game, singling home senior MikeJa~ieson for the winning run with two out in the sixth. 
"It feels good to get that first hit, especially in that situa-. tion," Prister said. "It takes the pressure off." 
Prister, a transfer from Indi­ana Central, was 0-3 in his first start for the Irish and made the team's only error in a. double­header against Indiana State on Sept. 14. 
Besides his game-winning hit, Prister doubled home a run in the second game. 
Senior catcher Jim Monta­gano also enjoyed an excellent day-a single, three doubles and three runs batted in. 
The Irish, however, did have ably a couple more. 
"We played well enough to 
win," head coach Larry Gallo 
said. "It's been a hectic week­
end and we were sluggish, plus · 
we've been going at it every day. 
Tomorrow is a day off." 

Illinois Chicago-Circle scored• 
first in the opener on two hits 
and an error in the first inning. 
The Irish evened it up in the 
bottom of the inning. on a 
Montagano double. 

The vi~tors took a 3-1 lead 
into the bottom of the fourth, 
but a bloop single by junior 
Chuck Tasch scored senior 
Geo~ge lams and junior Dan 
Szajko's sacrifice fly scored 
sophomore Rick Chyrst to 
notch the score. 

The losers added another run in the fifth and it almost held up. But junior Joe Barrows led off the sixth with a triple and scored on a sacrifice fly by Tasch. With two outs,Jamieson . drew a walk and Montagano fol­lowed with a double down the right field line, sending Jamie­son to third. Henry Valenzuela was intentionally walked to pave the wayJor Prister's single 
up the middle for the victory. 
SeniorJoe Wozniak, who is in 
his first season with the baseball 
squad after playing football 
previous!y, was the winning 
pitcher. Wozniak pitched two 
innings of no-run, no-hit ball 
before experiencing pain in his 
elbow. Junior Tom Conroy re­
lieved Wozniak and picked up 
the save with an inning of per­
fect relief. 

The Irish grabbed a 3-0 lead in 
the first inning of the second 
game and were never really 
challenged. Senior Bob Bartlett 
was in complete control, sur­
rendering one run on three hits 
while striking out five in four 
innings. 

Junior Brian Smith relieved 
Bartlett and pitched two inn­
ings of perfect relief. 

SophomoreJim Cameron led 
off with an infield single and 
Szajko followed with a single. 
Both runners moved up on a 
wild pitch before M( ntango de­
lievered a two-run double. 
Prister doubled in Montango. 
In the bottom of the sixth, 
Barrows doubled and junior 
Scott Siler followed with a mis­
played triple to center. Szajko's 
infield hit scored Barrows. 
The Irish play Spring Harbor 
College Saturday and Lewis 
University Sunday at Kline 
Field. Both matchups are 
doubleheaders starting at 1 
p.m. 



The Observer Monday,September 22, 1980-page 11 
--------------------------------------------------------~~~ 


-...Oliver 

Notre Dame ~-Indiana St. 4. I st 11ame
WOMEN'S VOLLEYBALL 
Notre Dame 5, fndiana St. I, 2nd'game
Tri-State clef. Notre Dame 15-12, 15-10, 
15-9.
icontinued from page 12] 
spent the evening with his par­Many observers noticed dur­
ents at their hotel in Plymouth, ing Saturday's pre-game warm­Football tion, Oliver approached the ball Ind. (about 25 miles south of ups that Oliver was booming Tennis and let it fly. At that point, Irish South Bend). the ball through the uprights Michigan 0 14 7 6 27 
Notre Dame 0 14 6 9 29
coach Dan Devine, as he ad­"Can't the football players from 50 yards out. Little did 
WOMEN'S First Quarter

mitted later, used the coaching get rooms for their parents they know he would be doing Notre Dame 6, Ball State 3. 
No Scoring
MEN'S

sign he's used for a long time. closer to campus?" you might that three hours later. "It's goes, 'In the name of the ask. "Nope," smiled one of his "That missed extra point Notre Dame Varsity 7, Notre Dame Second Quart<r 
Alumni 3.
Father, and of the Son..."' suitemates, "but that may haunted me for most of the 
ND·Phil Carter. 6-yd run (Harry Oliver 
Harry made it. change now." fourth quarter," Oliver said. kick). Pandemonium broke loose. When Oliver returyed from "When we scored to go ahead, I Soccer NO-Pete Holohan, 1 0-yd pass from Mike Courey (Oliver kick).
Irish fullback Pete Buchanan Plymouth Sunday morning, his started to breath a little easier. 
UM·Larry Ricks, 8-yd pass from John said later, "I was on the bottom roommates had their own tales But after Michigan scored, I SOCCER BOWL '80 Wangler (Ali Haji-Sheikh kick). of that mob. I really thought I from the aftermath of the remember looking down our at RFK Stadium, Wa.rhington, D.C. UM-Norm Betts, 9-yd pass from Wang­
was going to die. All I could blessed event. sideline and seeing a bunch of New York Cosmos 3. Ft. Lauderdale ler (Haji-Sheikh kick). Strikers 0. 
Third Quart.r think about was those people at "The phone was ringing all physically • and emotionally Friday's Result UM·Stan I'd wards, 2·yd run (Haji-Sheikh "The Who" concert in Cincin­night," they said. "Of course, drained people. Notre Dame ·3, Ohio State 0 kick). 
nati. But then maybe that his friends were calling to con­"My teammates were so worn Yesterdoy"s Remit ND·John Krimm, 49-yd interception return (l5ick failed). 
Notre Dame 2, Xavier I
wouldn't have been so bad. At gratulate him, but you wouldn't out from such a tough struggle. Fourth Quaru·r least I'd have died happy." believe the number of total I just wanted to do something to iil.~H GOALS...Kahale 1from Ciuni) at ND-Carter, 4-yd run (pass failed). 
Once in the locker room, strangers who were calling just help them. I love them all so 86:21, Kahale !unassisted) at 88:14, OM-Craig D•Jnaway, 1-yd pass from O'Malley I unassisted) at 89:!6... 
Wangler (pass failed). 
to say 'Thanks;;"
Oliver's teammates hoisted him much." Irish Go.-1 -Steve Berry llro..;, Kahale) ND-Oliver, 51-yd PG. high. He was in an hysterical "Some total drunk called and They love Harry, too. at 25:44 RUSHING: Notre Dame-Carter 30­woke us up at 9:00 this morning In what many consider to be Xavier goal -Nicky Calixte I unassist­103, Sweeney 2-11, Buchanan 3-6,). Stone
state, tears streaming down his 
ed) at 75:41 2-4, Courey 6-3. Michigan-Ricks 14·83,
face. (Sunday). He asked for Harry, the finest game ever played in 
Irish goal-O"Malley 1from Holter­Woolfolk 9· 70, J,.dwards-12-40, Hewlett 9· "I've been talking to coach and we told him that he wasn't Notre Dame Stadium, he help­man) at 88:54 28. about game balls," announced here. 'Well go get him. I wanna ed them alright. PASSING: Notre Dame-Courey 13·6· 2 62, Kiel 4-2-0 14, Hunter 1·1-0 31.
captain Crable. "And Harry, tell him how great he is.' He " ... and of the Holy Spirit. 
Interhall Michigan-Wangler 19·11-1 98, Hewlett 
this is yours. This is the ball you finally hung up.'' Amen." 5-1-0 II. kicked to beat Michigan." · Harry Oliver's history at RI£HVING: Notre Dame-Hunter 3· 32, Masztak 3·25, Holohan, 2·41, Carter I·
Minutes later, he broke free Notre Dame is an interesting Several clerics got wrapped 
Off Campus 24 Sarin 0 9. Michigan-Carte.r 2· 30, J,.dwards 2-22,enough from the bedlam for a one. He saM after Saturday's up in the spirit of the miracle Betts 2·17, Ricks 2-17, Ingram 2-10,
St. Ed"s 6 H.C. 0
te;:arful embrace with his father game that his kick was the finish. One priest, sitting in Woolfolk~1-12, Dunaway 1-1. and brother (Mom was waiting greatest moment of his life. section 2, turned to those be­outside). Dad had a little "And getting a scholarship to hind him and iokingly an­appology to make. Notre Dame is a close second." nounced "We have gone 
You see, after Michigan After kicking on Moeller's through a greatly religious ex­scored the go ahead touchdown varsity for just one year, Oliver perience. You ai:e all excused 
• • .Soccer
with less than a minute to play, had a dream come true when from mass tomorrow." the Oliver's left the stadium. Notre Dame expressed an in­Before 12:15 mass at Sacred They we;:re just too nervous terest in him. "I naively thought Heart Church yesterday, Fr. Bill [continued from page 12] 
When it came down to the last about what might lie ahead. at the time that I would be able Toohey submitted that Oliver's 
ten or twelve minutes, though,The media corp then mobbed to walk right in here and play," kick had a little help. "All the on the right side, O'Malley we just had more than them and the little guy. he admitted. "But there were fans in the south stands inhaled placed a perfect header· past the it worked out that way against 
"I prayed," he;: cried. "If you better kickers ahead of me (Joe at the same time and sucked it sprawled X.U. keeper for the Ohio State too." Unis and Cl}uck Male). I knew through the uprights.''
put this in the paper,'make sure victory at 88:54. Against the Buckeyes, the you say I thanked God and Our that I was going to have to work Fans at the north end, on the "We go to the far post on all Irish played well at both ends of Lady." hard if I was ever going to get a other hand, claim tha,t they our free kicks," said O'M~lley, the field, but could not seem to 
chance to play." blew it through.
One reporter told Oliver that who now has four goals to go finish a play, when with only he had just come from the "When Mike Johnston beat with one assist this season. 3:39 to play, Kahale followed in loser's locker room, and that me out last spring, I was really "And I was just standing there. an attempted shot byJoe Ciuni Michigan tailback Butch Wool­disappointed. I wasn't going to That's what should happen." from close range for a 1-0 lead. folk had made the comment call it quits though. I worked all Thankfully, O'Malley's goal Kahale, who has been all over that Harry would have "all the summer, hoping to redeem my-prevented an overtime session, the field of late, then put away
Volleyball

ladies he wanted tonight." self." 1 as the continuing story of bad the game with a hooking shot Olive;:r's response was sincere. Two weeks ago, the Irish blood between the Musketeers from the left side over goalie "The only lady I've got is Our placekicking picture looked and Irish (20 and 16 fouls re-Rob McNeil's head two minutes Lady." like this: Oliver would handle spectively) threatened to turn later. O'Malley closed out the

to organize 

His affection for God and the the extra points and short field the match into a cheap shot scoring with 44 seconds left on a Blessed Mother is not a .facade, goal chores and Steve Cichy session. The elbows, pushing 20-yard rocket just below the but very sincere. Around his would take care of the kickoffs and shoving yesterday on crossbar. neck has always been, and al­and long field goals. Johnston Cartier were a continuance of

tonight 

the bloodletting seen last year I CORNbR KICKS-Stein's in
ways will be his treasured scap­was penciled in as Cichy's back­
up. B'ut Oliver gradually work­in Cincinnati during the Mus-ury has been diagnosed as aular (a Catholic token of de­
keteers 2-0 win. broken fibula. Kahale leads the
votion). Next to his bed in his ed his way into Johnston's po­sition. With Cichy on the side­There will be an organiza­"You can see the difference team in scoring with six goalsGrace Hall residence is not only tional meeting for the men's Stein makes," Hunter said, de-and two assists for eighta bible, but another book for his lines "with a chipped vertebrae volleyball club tomorrow night dining to expound on his feel-points...O'Malley is secondnightly reading, Our Lady of suffered in the Purdue game, 
Fatima. the job was all Harry's. in the ACC Fieldhouse at 7:30 ings about the circumstances ...Holterman's assist was the 
After things had calmed "I think I first caught the p.m. No.volleyball will be play­surrounding .the Lockport, first point of a career that somewhat, Oliver didn't go out coaches attention in practice on ed at the organizational meet­N.Y. native's latest injury. promises to be a great one. and party with his teammates or Tuesday," he said yesterday. "I ing, however those interested "When he's in there, we're very Milligan's shutout over the return to his dorm for a trium­was hitting from over 50 yards should plan on staying until 9 tough and when he left we just Buckeyes was his third of the phant wdcome. Instead he with consistency." p.m. fell a art for about ten minutes. year and twdfth of his career. 
Classifieds  

Notices For Rent IT TAKES TWO..•.Emil qulues to make a double.... shoes to make· a FOR RENT: Ugly Duckling Rent-A-Car. palr..•.hands to clap tor the Aghtlng Priced from $7.95 a day and seven lrllh........lt takes two dollars to make cents a mile. Phone 255-2323 lor your lair 1hare count In thll year"s reservations. UNITED WAY STUDENT CAMPAIGN! For Rent: Ugly Duckling Rllnl-a·Car Frl-noon -Monday-noon 29.95w/Lost&Found 150 Free Miles Phone 255-2323 tor reservationsLOST: A check payable to the U ot NO. Lost In the area ot Hayes·Heaty bldg. Check was signed by my lather. Earl Smith. Please call Greg at 6764. Reward. LOST CALCULATOR .CASIO MODEL 2 room apt. $50.00 month. Near. TELLS TIME AND DATE WAS A GIFT 233-1329""  Wanted INSTANT CASH PAID FOR CLASS RINGS. Men"s $35-$85 and up.Free House Calls. 255·2402 INS CASH PAID FOR CLASS I!INGS. ·s $35 · $85 and up. Freehouse ails. 255·2402. __ For Sale '67 Cutlass Supreme PS. PB. AC, bucket seats, chrome wheels. Crullln'machlne lor $450. Call P.M. 234-1972  Tickets NEED TWO GA TICKETS TO IIIJIAMI FOR VISITING MOM a DAD CALL SANDY 272-5198 . WANTED: 1 Ticket to Miami game. Caii277-H15 and leave message. Personals SOPHOMORE CLASS LOnERY FOR M.S.U. TICKETS 8:00 MONDAY SEPT. 22STEPAN CENTER BRING SOPH. 1.0.  Quality Backrubs. Call Brian 234· 0989 Marlpat a co. In BA·Thanks a mil· lion.l owe you.You·re great. NEED RIDE TO ST. LOUIS AREA tor Sept. 26 weekend. Can leave anytime after Thursday noon: Will share driving and expenses.Call Julie 7674.  

..----------------..---------------------------------­
-
Monday ,September 22, 1980-page12







Svorts 
Oliver boots Michigan out of Promised Land 
Notre Dame 29, Michigan 27 
Oliver's Story 
by Beth H11.[(man and that's all I care about. He's a by Michael Ortman Sports Edtior heck of a nice kid -he was As.rociate Sports Editor even before he kicked it." 
Welcome to the Promised And, appropriately, after the It was Saturday, September Land, the land of milk, honey game a special person visited 20, 1980; 4:31 p.m. hST. <tnd a miracle-worker named the celebrating Irish in their Thousands of Notre Dame Harry Oliver. locker room to lead the team in football fans were thumbing 
Welcome to Notre Dame, giving thanks. through their programs, look­Ind., home ofthe FightingIrish, "I told you in practice that ing to find out who that No.3 in who, miraculously defeated you are part of an on going • green was. "I know he blew that Michigan 29-27 on Saturday. Notre Dame tradition," said extra point earlier, but what's 
Notre Dame's savior, a 5-11, University president Theodore his name again?" 165-pound placekicker named Hcsburgh. "but today you ad­Two minutes later, Harry Harrv Oliver, stood before the d~.:d a whole new chapter to that Oliver was a household name. 
gath~red multitude with just tradtion by not giving up. You "Harry 0, Harry 0," they 
0:04 reading on the game clock did what everybody said was chanted after the diminutive ready to attempt his first mi­impossible." left-footed soccer-style kicker racle. Like water to fine wine, If Harry Oliver was the Irish had made good on the second­Oliver changed Notre Dame's 'iavior, then freshman BlairKiel longest field goal in Notre fate bv booting the football was something of a prophet, Dame history -51 yards ­though the uprights, also con­perhaps David facing the Go­and by far, the longestofhis life verting a potentially bitter loss liath Michigan defense, pre­(his previous best was 38 yards into a sweet victory. paring the world for what was to in an Irish junior varsity game). 
Someone in the crowd must come. Was it just irony that the have had a vision, like the Kiel and the Irish shotgun band's halftime theme was prnphet:c of old, as the pre­offense, fashioned especially Gospel? game .·~;uses attempted to tear for the Columbus, Ind., native Perhaps, but there was some­
dcwr ib"' goal posts. But, who that doubles as Notre Dame's thing magic, something heav­could have guessed the game punter, entered the game with enly about the final moment. would end the way it did? less than a minute to play and Just before that never-to-be­
"I have to thank God, God the task of getting the ball forgotten three-pointer, one of had to be with me," said the within Oliver's range. Oliver's high school team­elated Oliver. "My teammates "I made a lot of quick de­mates, Irish linebacker Bob are the greatest, they supported cisions out there today," said Crable, J?atted his little buddy me, and I love every one of Devine, "not all of them right. on the tail and told him to "kick them." Butl felt that was the way to win the s-out of the ball. And 
"This is by far the greatest the game. We had worked on kick it straight." moment of my life," added the that formation all week with Then another fellow-Cincin­Cincinnati Moeller graduate af­Blair." .nati Moeller graduate knelt be­ter receiving the game ball from Kiel himself was not sure fore Oliver for the hold, or was his teammates. "Getting a whether he'd be called on to it in prayer? scholarship to Notre Dame was lead the Irish from the depths of Oliver's holder probably a close second." despair. turned to the "Field Goal 
With nearly 60,000 pairs of "I did not know ifhe (Devine) '1ilililllllll.,..'<1 Jesus" with this plea: eyes keyed to Oliver and his was going to bring me in or "Hey God, this is Tim magic leg, at least one Irish man not," said Kiel, who averaged Koegel. We need a big favor, prayed ironically for "devine" 43.5 yards punting on the day quick. Could you hold that intervention. with six attempts and a long of strong wind for just a second. I 
"I knew right away that it was 69 yards. "At the very last min­think Harry might need the true a~d he kicked it good. ute when they (Michigan) were Sophomore Phil Carter enjoyed a help." Then I used a famous sign that getting ready to score, that is brtlliant day against 1Uichigan, With that, like the parting of I've used for a long time," said when they told me I was going rushing for 103 yards on 30 carrieJ. the Red Sea, the 15-mile-an­
Touchdown!
Notre Dame's Dan Devine. in. The Tacoma, Wash. native accounted 'hour breeze ceased. "It's called 'In the name of the "Mike Courey is fantastic. · for two of Notre Dame'.r jo11r The epitome of concentra-Father and of the Son.. .' I've He's the one that led them all touchdowns verSI/s the Wolver­never seen Oliver kick one that 
ines.(photos by Phillip johnson) [continued on page 11]
[continued on page 8]
far, but it went through today 

In soccer 

Players of the Game 
ND stops Bucks, Musketeers 
by Gary Grassey some progress.'' agony as a result ofa kick to his Sports Writer Much of that progress, how-ankle. After he was removed ever, must be attributed to the from the field, the Notre Dame Harry Oliver wasn't the only'-presence of senior halfback Bill defense seemed to wilt. 
last minute hero to make his Murphy and junior fullbackJim The Musketeers put on the 
mark on theNotre Dame sport-Stein in the Irish lineup for the pressure for the next few min­
ing scene this weekend. first time this season. Until Fri-utes and at the 75:41 mark, The Fighting Irish soccer day's match, Murphy had been forward Nicky Calixte put team had two uf their own, be-recovering from a foot injury home a blast into the right cor­ginning with Friday night's e-and Stein from a separated ner that keeper Milligan could motional 3-0 win over Ohio shoulder. Their skills were sore-not handle. State and winding up yesterday . ly missed. With the score even at 1-1, afternoon on the same Cartier TheNotre Dame defense, for Notre Dame rebounded and Field with a 2-1 Notre Dame the entire Ohio St. game and took control of the play. decision against rugged Xavier most of the Xavier contest, was Freshman Ken Harkenrider University. The weekend sweep impenetrable. Stein spearhead-placed a dangerous cross in Phil Carter john Krimm lifted the Irish record to6-1 and ed the· fullback corps with his front of Xavier goalie Ted provided a much needed shot of aggressive, reckless abandon Kuechly's net that was stopped 
by The Observer 
confidence following last Sun-_ style of play and goalkeeper with 3:52 left to play. 30 sec­
day's crushing defeat in St. John Milligan was rarely tested. onds later, forward Ed O'Malley Louis. With 23:07 remaining to play----unloaded a blast from the left Offensive Player ofthe Game 
Defensive Player ofthe Game
"These are the teams (Ohio against Xavier, the Irish clung side that Kuechly batted away. Phil Carter rushed for 103 yards 
John Krimm, cornerback for 
State and Xavier) we can and to a 1-0 lead, courtesy of soph-And finally, on a free kick by on 30 attempts and made two 
the Irish who ran back an 
should beat," said Notre Dame omore halfback Steve Berry's Irish freshman fullback Joe touchdowns. Honorable Men­
interception for a 49-yardcoach Rich Hunter. "We didn't goalat25:44ofthefirsthalfona Holterman from 35 yards out tion Blair Kiel, Tony Hunter touchdown. Honorable Mention win many games like this last Sami Kahale assist. Stein,sud-. d ) andPete Holohan Bob Crable year, so you can see we've made denly dropped to the turf in [conttnue on page 11 







