I I I 
Trustees -page 7-10 

VOL. XV, NO. 42 
an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and saint mary's THURSDAY, OCTOBER 16,1980 

Quayle rails at Detnocratic policies 
by Mtlr)' Frrm Callahrm Smior Staff Reporter 
Republican senatorial candi­date Dan Quayle campaigned last night to a crowd of thirty, slinging mud at democratic constituents while simultaneous­ly stressing his own plans for the "challenge of the eighties." 
Quayle opened his presenta­tion, held at the Galvin Auditorium, by outlining what he perceived as the significant challenges of the decade. 
He called for a consolidation of federal bureaucracies while em­phasizing that he was "proud".he led the fight to kill Ralph Nader's consumer efforts from blossom­ing into a full-fledged federal agency. 
The candidate also discussed the "need for limitations of taxes" by stressing that taxcuts are not only needed for individu­
He then began attacking his opponent incumbent Birch Bayh by quoting some statistics that he attributed to Governor Bowen. 
Quayle cited 13 percent in­flation, 12 percent unemplo:y­ment, overregulation, overtaxa­tion and weak national defense. 

"The world is less stable today than when Jimmy Carter took over four year!. ago," the candi­date commented. 
He then qiticized the present administration's handling of
-
[continued on page 3] 

Economist wins eighth 
U.S. Nobel Prize 
STOCKHOLM, Sweden (AP ) -U.S. economist Lawrence R. Klein, whose models for fore­casting economic trends re­volutionized the field, capped a strong American showing in the 1980 Nobel Prize series yester­day by winning the economics award. 
The 60-year-old University of Pennsylvania professor won the Memorial Prize in Economics 
"Econometrics" is the use of ma-thematics and statistics to verify and develop economic theories. 
The Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences, which chooses the economics winner, said that for 30 years, Klein has been the leading researcher in the field of analysis ofbusiness fluctuations. 
Klein, an economics professor at Pennsylvania since 1958, 




als, but also for industry. He and became the eighth American served as an adviser to Jimmy 
explained his position on corpor­laureate among 11 winners this Carter during the 1976 presi­
dential campaign and has re­
year. He was selected for hisate taxcuts by saying additional 
mained an unofficial consultant
capital in industrial spheres will creation of econometric models 
to the administration.
enable business to create more used in analyzing economic 
jobs and opportunities. fluctuations and policies. The economist declined an 
official position to avoid raising the issue of his previous affili­ation with the American Com­munis~ Party, sources said. They
Heppen says 
said he also cited his desire to 
continue his research. 
Over 3000 mourners crowded into Sacred Heart Church 

The native of Omaha, Neb. 
for the funeral mass ofFr: Wtlliam Toohey yesterday. After 

was a Communist Party member 
the mass, f!ear~y one thtrc( of those there followed white


St. Ed's to rebuild 
in 1946 and 1947, while doing 
rol-ed clencs tn processton to the bun'al site. [story
below] [photo by Beth Prezio] 

research at the University of
Ay Davtd Rickaba11gh New energy efficient windows 
Chicago. He left the United
Saint Edward's Hall, Notre will be installed, but they will be 
States for Britain during the
Dame's oldest student dormitory compatible with the architectur­
1950s, when Sen. Joseph R.
which was severely damaged by a al style, he said. 
McCarthy's congressional com­
June 25 fire, will undergo an Pedi said that fire prevention 
mittee was investigating the al­
Notre Dame community

historical restoration as well as would be stressed by installing 
leged communist connections of
physical expansion and upgrad­smoke alarms, a sprinkler 
a number of prominent Ameri­
ing, Fr. Micheal ]. Heppen, system, and fire-proof steel cans. 

remembers Fr. Toohey

director of student residencies, doors. 
Klein's graduate students
has announced. Heppen said the insured re­
stood and applauded yesterday 
by Mark Rust

Fr. Mario Pedi, rector of Saint placement cost of the burned 
when their instructor entered 
Managing Edrtor

Edward's, said that the work on section will exceed $1 million, 
the classroom. The laureate
the renovation and the building and that the entire project cost broke into a broad smile and 
Fr. William Toohey was buried yesterday in the community quipped, "You make me feel like 
of the addition would start as will be around $2 million, with 
cemetery under peaceful October skies and the quiet reflectio~ a politician."
4uickly as possible. the University paying for the of over 900 mourners.
The major feature of the expansion. 
When asked about the prize 
The funeral procession, which wound its way past Corby Hall money, he responded, "It's not a 
expansion will be the tearing Saint Edward's, built in 1882 
down Saint Mary's Road along the lake, followed a solemn high big thing." He said what matters 
duwn of the two story, detached and named for the patron saint of 
mass in Sacred Heart Church attended by close to 3,000 people. to him is the recognition. 
annex to the north of the burned Notre Dame's founder, Fr. 
structure and the constructing of Edward Sorin, once housed the He said an econometric model 
Fr. Toohey, who was director of Campus Ministrv for ten is "a good tool for dealing with 
a four-story addition with a "minims," boys from 9 to 13 
years, died Monday morning after a two-week struggle with the uncertainties oflife." The use 
French mansard roof matching years, in a boarding school encephalitis.
the reconstructed fourth floor program. The program was of such econometric models, he 
Fr. Theodore Hesburgh, University president, joined ap­said, enables economists "to roll 
and roof line of the original closed and the building renovat­proximately 50 concelebrants in a mass honoring a manbuilding. The old anrtex was not ed for college students in 1929. 
with each event and do a new 
eulogized as one who "hungered... for justice." The homily was forecast. The important thing is
damaged by fire but was in poor The annex was once used by offered by Fr. Thomas McNally of Campus Ministry. ·condition due to age. The new Holy Cross Congregation's \'O­
to have a system that is already 
In his homily, .McNally described Fr. Toohey as a friend and aexpansion will not be a separate cation department for a pre­ready." 

man of compassion.

structure but will be an archi­novitiate program for older 
The economics prize, provid­
"No one preached the gospel more fully. No one hungeredtecturally constant continuation candidates for the priesthood 

ed by the Swedish Central Bank, 
and thirsted more for justice," McNally said. He characterizedof the building's current physical before being occupied by uni­was added in 1 ~68 to the original 

Fr. Toohey as a man of intense emotion: "He preached th<: five established in the will of
configuration. versity students. 
gospel with a terrible urgency from the pulpit."

Heppen said the new residence Despite their displacement to 
dynamite inventor Alfred Nobel 
McNally said that Fr. Toohey's assembeled friends andhall will have expanded social other rooms on campus, Saint 

to honor humanitarian works. 
acqua_intences "share in mourning... for one we love," but couldand study space, and the stair­Edward's residents have kept 

The bank matches the other 
find reassurance in words that Fr. Toohey had written earlier:wells will be improved, although their identity through social 

prizes' stipends, which this year 
"Death, l1ate and despair will not have the last word."

the building will now have an gatherings and athletic com­
amount to $212,000, a record in 
Bishop William McMannus also recalled Fr. Toohey's senseelevator. The stained glass Sorin petition. It is hoped the rebuilt 

the 79-year-old Nobel series. 
of urgency, but noted a more essential quality. kept, and an attempt will be be available for occupancy in the The Norwegian Nobel Com­
window on the staircase will be and expanded residence hall will 
He noted that Fr. Toohey in his work followed a scriptural made to preserve a mural of Fr. fall of 1981. mittee awarded the peace prize 
passage that says "I know mine, and they know me," a passage Sorin and the Indians in a second The new building will house to Argentine human rights 
of which he was particularly fond. "I like to think," the Bishop floor trunk room that will be 187 students, compared with 134 activist Adolfo Perez Esquivel. 
said, "that when God greeted Fr. Toohey he said: 'Bill, I know mine, and they know me."'

remodeled into a study area. before the fire. 
[continued on page 4] 
















News Brie/§ 
Thursday, October 16, 1980 -page 2 
by The Observer and The Ass9ctilted Press 
Inside ThursdayA request for extradition from the 
United States of Anastasio Somoza Portocarrero, son of the 
assassinated Nicaraguan dictator, and 10 other members ofthe 
Somoza regime was to be presented to the Nicaraguan 

One era ends, another begins 
Supreme Court. Legal experts said the court would probably 
approve the petition and forward it immediately to the Interior 
Ministry. From there it would go to the Foreign Ministry for 
There's no doubt that Edward "Moose" Krause delivery to the U.S. government. The 11 men are charged with 
will be sorely missed as Notre Dame's athletic fraud, extortion and other offenses in connection with a $44 
director. After all, no other name is quite as million loan obtained from a Spanish bank for public works 
synonymous with Notre Dame. projects by Spanish firms. The attorney general charges that 
Quite a few people were shocked by the Somoza Portocarrero formed heavy equipment firms, shut out 
announcement that Gene Corrigan-from the all competition and sold the equipment to the Spanish 
University of Virginia-would replace Krause. contractors at inflated prices.-AP 
How, they asked, could someone from outside the 
necessarily mean that Joyce will hand over the University fill the position that only aNotre Dame reins to Corrigan and tell him to run with it. But it man can handle? 
does mean that the new athletic director will have 
El Salvador yesterday celebrated the 
How could this person stand before Notre greater responsibilities. 
first anniversary of the overthrow of rightist President Carlos Dame alumni groups around the country and It doesn't take much to read between the lines in Humberto Romero with a national holiday amid reports of74 expect to receive Notre Dame receptions? this situation. Corrigan, athletic director atmore deaths in the political warfare between leftists and ultra­How could this person speak at halftime of a Virginia since 1971, is believed to be one of therightists that has killed more than 7,000 people since the Notre Dame football game and capture the better-paid athletic administrators in the Atlanticbloodless coup. Soldiers parachuted Tuesday into a 40-mile­attention of a Notre Dame crowd? Coast Conference. One wouldn't think thatsquare leftist guerrilla zone in the central part of the country How could an outsider become Notre Dame's leaving a comfortable situation to becomeand in a day-long battle killed 50 guerrillas the army said. Itsaid new athletic director? figurehead would be that enticing.
four soldiers were killed. Authorities reported finding the One also has to consider that the 63-year-oldbodies of20 people, including 11 students and workers, in the Joyce is nearing retirement. By giving Corrigan suburbs of San Salvador and in Toncatepeque, 20 miles to the administrative responsibilities that he has pre­northeast. Meanwhile, leftists freed Victor Keilhauer, a viously held himself, Joyce would begin a gradual, businessman kidnapped six months ago, after his family yet necessary, process of relinquishing partialreportedly paid $2 million in ransom. The kidnappers control of the athletic administration. 
demanded $4 million. -AP 
A look at Corrigan's background also seems to indicate that he will have more administrative
Government censors banned publica­
responsibility at Notre Dame. At Virginia, he wastion of an article submitted by the New Independent Union given credit for the school's extensive athleticFederation Solidarity about Czeslaw Milosz, the Polish emigre growth. The University, under Corrigan's admini­
p~·
in the United States who won this year's Nobel Prize in stration, added 10 women's sports and conductedliterature. The article apparently was rejected because it said Well, maybe the answer isn't all that com­a multi-million dollar renovation program. 
most ofMilosz's works have been available in Poland only from plicated. 
That program encompassed a new baseballunderground publishers. Since the prize was announced Friday, Maybe it's not necessary for the athletic director at stadium, a tartan surface track, expanded tennis many Polish newspapers have given extensive coverage to Notre Dame to be a Notre Dame man, to charm facilities, a new intramural recreation complexMilosz without mentioning his anti-communist views. PAP, the Notre Dame alumni, or to excite Notre Dame and an addition of 14,000 seats to Scott (football)official news agency, reported that Polish publishers are football crowds. 
Stadium.

preparing to publish his works. -jAP Maybe, at least, it won't be necessary for Gene All ofthat was financed by fund-raising activities Corrigan to do that. 
that were directed by Corrigan. And that is anIn recent years Notre Dame's athletic director 
French investie:ators believe Libyan 
important credential to have, especially sincehas had his hands tied. It is no secret that Fr.
leader Moammar Khadafy was tlie mastermind of the Oct. 3 Notre Dame announced last spring that it planned Edmund P. Joyce, executive vice-president andParis synagogue bombing that killed four\ people, the news to establish a separate athletic endowment to helpchairman of the Faculty Board in Control ofmagazine jewish Tribune said in this week's edition. The combat spiralling inflationary operating expenses. 
Athletics, has run the show. In fact, it has often efforts by France to overthrow the Libyan colonel. There was 
magazine said Khadafy ordered the attack in retaliation for been said that the important athletic offices are Most observers feel Krause's retirement marks not located at the ACC, but rather in theno immediate comment on the article by the French the end ofan era. They are right. There will never
Administration Building. 
government or any public reports of French attempts to be another "Moose."
Joyce does the hiring, and-believe it or not­overthrow Khadafy. The synagogue bombing came amid a rash But it also marks the beginning of an era-anJoyce does the firing. Joyce imposes theof anti-Semitic attacks in France. No suspects have been era in which Fr. Joyce will yield some of hismoratoriums, and Joyce revokes the mora­arrested in any of the incidents. -AP administrative power to the athletic director. 
toriums. The athletic department has hardly been 
run in a democratic fashion (which is not to sayThe bathroom may come to rival the classroom 
that it should have been run in that way).
as a mt:dium for transmitting knowledge if a test study at All of which in no way is intended to criticize 

()bserver ~otes
Syracuse University is any indication. Dr. Alan W. Grogono Krause's tenure as athletic director. There issaid detailed posters on cardiopulmonary resuscitation taped to The Observer is always looking for new re­probably no other person that could have filled thethe door or wall of toilets at a university dormitory proved porters-experience is not necessary. Ifyou like bill as admirably as he did. In fact, he was probably highly effective in teaching the life-saving, emergency to write, and are willing to contribute a couple ofthe perfect person for the job. It's just that the jobtechnique to students who used the facilities. Grogono, an hours a week, our news department wants you. Ifdescription (if there was one) of Notre Dameassociate professor ofanesthesiology at the State University of interested, come up to our offices (3rd floorAthletic Director didn't have much to say aboutNew York Medical Center in Syracuse, said the study involved LaFortune) anytime between 12 and 1 p.m.
making important decisions.
280 dormitory students. The posters, taped to the door or wall during the week, and talk to one of our newsCorrigan's hiring, however, seems to indicate editors. They'll be glad to get you started. 
of every toilet in one coed dormitory, contained 25 key facts that this practice is about to change. It doesn't
about CPR, a rescue technique for heart attack victims. Students in an unpostered dormitory elsewhere on campus served as the doctor's control group. After the posters had been 
_The_Qbseryer
in place for three weeks, Grogono tested the 140 "graffiti" 
Who's To Blame?
students with a 140-student control group that hadn't seen the 
Design Editor ............. Steve Swonk 
Design Auts............ Deirdre Murphy Tom O'Connor 
posters. The captive audience in the postered bathrooms got 
2.5 times more correct answers than the control group, 
Anne Fultz
Grogono said. The poster-coached students also scored just as 
Day/Night Technicians .... Bruce Oakley 
Pat-Down to the sea-city News Editor..... ......,.... Lynne Daley 
high on the test as a third group that had taken conventional 
CPR training, he said. -AP 
Copy Editor ............... Kathy Casey Features Layout ......... Scoop Sullivan Sports Copy Editor ..... Michael Ortman 
Typists .................... Cindy Jones Suzy Sulentic 
The final toll from this summer's heat wave is 
1,265 deaths and nearly $20 billion in damage, the National 
Clauifieds Layout ...... Deirdre Murphy Systems Technician .... ... Chris Albertoli ND Day Editor ............. Barb Biehl 
Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration reported yesterday. 
Only three other summers in this century have taken more 
SMC Day Edt/or ...... Kathy Domanico 
American lives in heat-related fatalities. Most ofthose who died 
SupjJiement Layout ........ Tom Jackman 
Pam Degnan Photographer ............... Beth Prezio 
from the heat were either elderly or poor and lived in non-air­
conditioned homes or apartments, said the agency. Missouri, 
And Lovely Friends ............. No Doz Mikey Margie Kimmy Molly 
with 311 deaths, had the highest toll in the nation, although 
other states had higher temperatures for longer periods. The 
Kathy Rusty
heat wave broke temperature records in more than six states, 
Lefty Kelly Frankie & Johnny
and in Dallas Texas, the mercury climbed over 1 00 degrees each 
day from June 23 to Aug. 3. Besides the fatalities, the weather 
The Observer (USPS 598 920) Is
agency's Environmental Data and Information Service re­
published Monday through Friday
ported that: electrical energy use was 5.5 percentabove normal, 
except during exam and vacation 
a record; crops' and livestock suffered significant daJrlage; 
periods. The Observer Is publishedby the students of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions
hundreds of miles of major highways buckled; and water 
resources in many parts of the country were seriously 
may be purchased for $20 per year
jeopardized. -AP 

($1 0 per semester) by writing The Observer, P.O. Box 0, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Indiana
Partlv cloudy and warmertoday with 
46556. 
scattered afternoon and evening thundershowers. Highs in the 
The Observer Is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction
70s, tonight's lows in the mid-50s. 
rights are reserved. 

a 





--------~---­
..--------------------------~-~--' ~-----­
• • . Quayle 

Congressman Dan Quayle answeredquestions regarding his Senate campaign race against Birch Bayh dtm'ng a talk in Galvin auditorium last night. [photo by Beth Prezio] 
Arsenic murders 



FBI searches for insane poisoner 
BIRMINGHAM, Ala. (AP)­Audrey Marie Hilley, charged with using arsenic to poison her daughter, who survived, and suspected of doing the same to several other relatives, who didn't, has been missing without a trace for almost one year. 
The 19-state search for the woman is complicated by in­vestigators' growing suspicion that the Audrey Marie Hilley who disappeared from a Birmingham motel last November may be quite a different person today. 

The only thing Hilley left behind at the motel was a note. Investigators won't release its contents, but say the scribbled message makes them believe Hilley is living a life where she "changes her personality to fit her surroundings." 
"She can be kind, laughing, 
considerate and then brutal and 
hateful," said the FBI agent who 
is coordinating the coast-to­
-coast search for Hilley. 
"We believe she is living in a 
world with make-believe friends 
and enemies. When she reads 
this, if it's the real Marie Hilley, 
she will probably change her 
personality when she realizes 
what she is accused of doing." 
The 47-year-old Anniston 
woman, charged with unlawful 
flight to avoid prosecution for 
murder and attempted poison­
ing, is being hunted coast-to­
~~~-----------••
I need printing II in a hurry? ! 
1100 -11x17 postersl I onty$10.00 I
I .,. III ~ 203 N. Main1 
• • I
I . , South Bend 1 I 289-6977 I I the wiz of the I 
• printing biz 1 •
L 

----------· 
coast by the FBI and 28 other federal divisions. 
The FBI warrant against Hilley stems from a Calhoun County indictment of Oct. 25, 1979, charging her with trying to poison her 20-year-old daughter, Carol Marie Hilley, with arsenic. 
On Nov. 16, Hilley disappear­ed from the suburban motel where she was living while awaiting trial, free on $14,000 bond. On Jan. 11, a Calhoun County grand jury indicted her on murder diarges for the 1975 arsenic poisoning of her hus­
band, Frank. She has also been indicted for check fraud. 
The FBI agent, who asked not to be identified, has followed several hundred leads since the search began in January, all in vain. 
"It's not likely I'll arrest Hilley. An agent in another state will most likely arrest her," he said. "But ifthe real Marie Hilley reads this she will likely change her personality or relocate or get careless and hopefully we'll find her." 
The agent said that interviews 

with Hilley's friends and rela­

whom she hasn't contacted 

....united Limo, Inc. Travel United Limo To/From Chica~o O'Hare Airport 
One Wa~· Fare ..... $22.00 

Deliver to your airline at O'Hare Airport 
Round Trip .......... $39.00 

O'Hare pick-up at Lower Level Carson Restaurant Save over 50% on Round Trip T!J and From O'Hare 
I{''"'' Ria: H•·•tr  ll'OIIl' '\,1),  l.l'Jil' \irpnrl  
5:00  .'i: I()  5:20  - •:.·..f5  
R:OO  8:10  .'L!O  8:../5  
I I :00  11:10  11.]11  II ·..f.'i  
]:()()  ]: 10  l:l()  .':..J.'  
5:10  5:2fl  .':..J5  

UNITED 
LIMO 

INC. 

'~ HS McKINlf • 
MISHAWAKA 
1//tH\ ull1' hn111 tuJIII utn 1111'11111 111111' ,1u 111111 11f 1/1· 1 l'l•·•t'l' mal.l-n·"·nalinn' 2~ huur' in a1hann ''" ahnul 'pt·t·ialt·harll'r r;lll"' 
Call United Limo, Inc. (219)255-3068 
OFFICE,

PICK-UP 

Bittersweet &McKinley, Big Bear Restaurant, Town &Country Center, POINTS: Notre Dome Bus Shelter Michiano Regional Airport 
since disappearing, have led him to believe she may be exhibiting separate personalities. 
He said she has used many aliases, among them Mandy Hilley, Julie Hilley, M.F. Hilley and Margaret Key, the real name of her aunt. 
It was about a year ago that Carol Hilley almost died in an } labama hospital. Her illness 
~nt undiagnosed for months 

HAPPY HOUR 
Friday 3-7 PRE -GAmE PAR 
[continued from page I) 
foreign policy-saying nothing concrete has been done because the· current adminstration has "no respect or credibility around the world." 
After concluding his opening remarks, Quayle then opened the floor to questions. 
When asked about support from the National Conservative Political Action Committee (NCPAC), which has been leading a campaign to smear Bayh, Quayle replied, "I wish they would contribute to my campaign. So far, I've gotten zero contribution." 
Another question which perk­ed the candidate's eyebrows dealt with his congressional 
until doctors discovered higher than usual amounts ofarsenic in her blood. 
The diagnosis led forensic experts to exhume the bodies of Frank Hilley, who died in 1975, and Hilley's mother, Lucille Frazier, who died in 1977. 
Death certificates indicated both died ofcancer, but patholo­
[continued on page 5) 
· 

open lOam .2131oody mary's Of 2Screwdrivers for the price of one 
/ 

attendance record. Quayle re­futed his questionable attendace record simply by answering that his opponent's attendance rating fell 15 points below his own. 
Throughout the course of the question and answer session, Quayle outlined his tax reforms, said he supported draft registra­tion-but nota peacetime draft, 
declared  his  support  for  the  
Windfall  Profits Tax  and  em­ 
phasized  his  strong  pro-life  
position.  

Quayle concluded the even­ing's talk by saying the "econ­omy is in shambles" due to the present admiP.istration. 
Prices Good While Supply Lasts 
\rri11 \li,h.

\niH• ()'I Ian· 
I ''""' ()"IJan· 
8:()() 
8: It::. 
I I :00 
.}:Ill)

I /'110 
II I' 
}:()() 
': ()()
~': 1.' 

:; ·f)II 
.'<.·()()
::.. I' 
I I. ()()

.'<:IllI 
.'< 15 

.~ -;-;"""~"'~~~ 

* (·alll'nr n·wnalinn' fur Pifk.up alllnlida1 Inn. Hl.h..rl Pifk.up al llnlida1 Inn. \1il'hia:an ( i11 
Miller Beer 
24-12 oz. N/R Bottles 

$6.69 
Old Milwaukee 
24-12 oz. Cans 


$6.49 
Michelob or Michelob Light 
24-12 oz. Bottles 
1 Liter 

$4.81 
Crown 
Russe 
Vodka 
750 mi. 



$3.99 
Keller 
Guister erman White Wine 750 mi. 


$2.29 

0 R L 
D 
~12H South Bend Ave. Phone: 277-361 I 
NO Party Head 

The Observer Thursday, October 16, 1980 -page 4 
Saint Mary's builds library 
by Margie Brassil SMC Executive Edtfor 
The groundbreaking cere­mony for Saint Mary's new library will be held tomorrow at 11 a.m. Although the construc­tion has already begun on the $7 million building, the ceremony was scheduled to coincide with the Board of Regents meeting being held this weekend. 
PresidentJohn M. Duggan and Sr. Margaret Michael King, chairman of the Board of Regents, will open the ceremony with a greeting to the college community, the Board, and special friends ofthe college who attend. 
The Most Reverend William E. McManus, Bishop of F6rt Wavne South Bend Diocese, will bless the ground, and the Women's Choir under the direction of Raymond Sprague will sing for the ceremony. 
Duggan, expressing his pleas­ure that the new library is finally becoming a reality, said, "This is 

SPECIAL CT.16, 17 From NO CIRCLE 
To 

CHICAGO O'HARE EXPRESS! 
Depts  6:45  a.m.  
ircle  12:15 p.m.  
Arr.  10:00  a.m.  
O'Hare  3:30 p.m.  

To Your Individual Airline Gate 
Return 
Dept 10:55 a.m. O'Hare 4:45 p.m. 8:00p.m. 
(Board Lower Level Carson's Circle Restaurant) 
$15 One Way $28 round trip 

Buy Your Ticket From Your Driver 
an essential resource which 
could no longer be delayed 
because of our increased student 
population and our expanded 
library collection." 

The groundbreaking cere­mony ends five years of research and planning for the new building to replace the Alumnae Centennial Library built in 1942. The old library was built to hold only 80,000 volumes and now ·overflows with 150,000 books, many ofwhich must be stored in other buildings on the campus. When the new library is co~­pleted the college. plans to con­vert the old building into a 
college center. 

Evans Woolen Associates are 
the architects of the new library 
which will accommodate ap­
proximately 250,000 volumes. It 
will also provide group study 
rooms and a lounge area with 
vending machines. The audio­
visual department will be ex­
panded and the archives will be 
moved from Regina hall to the 
new building. A 24-hour study area in the library will be con­nected toLe Mans hall by a walk­through tunnel system. 
Sollitt construction Company is working as construction manager for the project. 
On September 24 the College received a check for $5.5 million from the sale ofbonds to finance construction. Fundraising effort­s are underway to retire the bonds, and the college has al­ready received gifts in excess of $3.25 million. 





Van.Lines to resume 
•


servtce 
Van Lines will resume service after Break on non-home foot­ball weekends beginning Friday, October 31, 1980. 

Mark Mulholland enjoys the fall afternoon with a ''Coke and a smile." {Photo by Beth Prezio] 
the notre dame student union presents 
~!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! country rock jam~!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!a!!!!!!!!!! 
featuring the vassar clements band
&"······················································-..........••·······•················..
~tickets: $5.00 general admission E 
with speqial guests
I 

$4.00 w. n.d./smc i.d. ' 

john hall 

:available at: ndsu ticket office m-f (12-4) l 

heartsfield 

E all river city record stores ;
! ! radio flyer L~~!.~~.:.':! ..~.~r.~!:.~!~.!:..P.;.~..e.._f!!:....!L~-~:!:.~Q~ rich prezioso 8t kevtn quigtey 
sat. nov. 1st. stepan center 

NOTBE DAME vs. 





GEOBGIATECB 
GRANT FIELD NOVEMBER 8TH, 1:30 P.M. 
Plan to attend the Notre Dame/Georgia Tech game? Why not really enjoy it? Make reservations at the Sheraton-Atlanta just two short blocks from Grant Field. Relax in your room. Enjoy an informal buffet in our ~ive-Ninety West Rooftop Restaurant-served trom ll a.m. till game time. Then, stroll the two blocks to the field in time for kick off, avoiding parking hassles. After the game, return to the hotel and enjoy drinks and dinner, dancing and entertainment in Five-Ninety West or our new Ashley's Lounge. 
Come on out Fighting Irish and enjoy a football weekel\d. 
Call today toll-free 1-800-325-3535 
• • . Nobel 
[continued from page 1] 
Other American winners in this year's series are Polish-born author and poet Czeslaw Milosz of the University ofCalifornia at Berkeley, in literature; George Snell, of theJackson Laboratory in Bar Harbor, Maine, and Venezuelan-born Baruj Benacerraf of HarvarC:l, who shared the medicine prize with Frenchman Jean Dausset; James Cronin of the University of Chicago and Val L. Fitch of Princeton University in physics; and Walter Gilbert of Harvard a.OO Paul Berg of Stanford, who shared the chemistry prize with Briton Frederick Sanger of Cambridge. 
Victim group holds crime workshop 
The third annual Crime Pre­vention ~! orkshop, sponsored by the 0 lder Adult Crime Victim Program, will be held W ednes­day, October 22nd from 10 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Main Branch of the South Bend Public Library, 122 West Wayne St. 
For more information call Real Services 23 3-8205. 
~·······Introducing········ 
Victory Pizza 
(formerly Rizzo's) 
.............................. 
............................... 
Delivery to 

ND-SMC Campus 
277-4926 
(Just 500 ft. south of: 
. 

. . . Kroger on SR 23) ..... : 
-~-------­
• 

IThe Observer Thursday, October 16, 1980 -page 5 
• • . Poisoner 
[continued from page 3] relatives who had died since gists found enough arsenic in : Carol Hilley's birth. Psychiatrists Hilley's remains to investigate. , think the birth may have touch­
Arsenic was also found in ed off Hilley's behavior. Frazier's body, but in amounts Wed at age 18, she was having below the toxic range. Officials marital troubles when Carol, her then ordered autopsies on other second child, was born. Psychia­relatives. · trists and investigators alike be-
Carrie Hilley, the fugitive's lieve she resented her daughter's mother-in-law, was ill for several birth, and that her resentment weeks before dying last Novem-began surfacing long before they her. Her autopsy report has not had evidence of arsenic poison­been released, but investigators ngs. have given evidence about her As examples, the FBI agent death and that of Frazier to a noted two arson fires at the Calhoun County grand jury. No Hilley house, one when Frank 

indictments have been returned  Hilley was still alive, the second  
from that investigation.  when Carol and her grandmother  Next year this "cell block" will be home for two women. [Photo by Beth Prezio]  
The tests were made only on  were in the house alone.  


NELSON'S GOLDEN GLOW 
BAR-B-O 

CARRY OUTS ONLY 
CORNER NOTRE DAME a SOUTH BEND AVE. l 





Civic leaders meet to reassure blacks after n1urder of children 
ATLANTA (AP) -Civic lead­ers rallied yesterday in an effort to calm what the mayor called "a feeling of frustration and isola­tion "among low-income blacks that was aroused by the murders of eight black children and heightened by a deadly furnace explosion. 
Even as the rubble of the Gate City Day Care Center, located in a low-income housing project in 
: a predominantly black neighbor­hood, was being cleared, a rumble of rumors brought top city officials to the scene to try to calm the fears of residents. Four black pre-school children and one adult were killed in the explosion Monday. Already dealing with public outcry about the unsolved mur­ders of eight black children and the disappearance of six others,· officials now are faced with growing frustration among blacks who have expressed fear that the incidents somehow are connected. The bodies of the eight children have been found in various areas of the city. None has been found in the immediate 
area of the explosion. 
To stem fears raised by the explosion, Jackson and Public Safety Commissioner Lee Brown, who like most of the city's police hierarchy also is black, mingled in an angry crowd Monday, assuring residents that the explosion was an accident caused by a faulty furnace. 
"There is nothing at all to indicate that the explosion was the result of foul play," Brown told the group. 
But the statements have drawn 
skepticism from many area resid­
ents. 
"I don't kriow what happen­ed," said Charles Davis, a resid­ent of tbe housing project. "But even 1.-1t happened like they say it did, tht: people don't believe 
it." 
Davis' concerns were echoed 
by many attending a parents' 
meeting Monday night, and by 
many others who called a rumor 
control number set up by Jack­
son at the city's Civil Defense 
headquarters. 
Monday's explosion came on the heels oflast week's discovery ofthe body of12-yearold Charles Stephens, the eighth black child found dead in the metropolitan area in 14 months. 
Police have created a special task force to work solely on those cases. 




··.STUDENT/FACULTV BOOK SALE 
, 

Library Concourse October30 
October31 9-4
9-5 


ENGINEERS/COMPUTEH SCIENCE GHADlJATES 
LOOKING FOR A CAREER WITH BROAD HORIZONS? 
We're McDonnell Douglas-one of the world's leaders in fast moving, excit­ing fields ... military and commercial aircraft, missiles, spacecraft, electron­ics, automation and health services. 
And we're looking for people who are looking for the opportunity to put what they've learned to work-peo­ple like you. 
What we offer is a wide variety of advanced technical projects and a chance to get involved, really in­volved, in programs on the leading edge of technology. 
So, if you're an engineer or computer specialist who wants a real job with real responsibility, sign up at your Placement Office for an interview. 
We'll be on campus: 

Thursday, October 30 
Or send your resume to: 
A. P. Adelsberger Professional Employment McDonnel1 Douglas Corp. P.O. Box 516 St. Louis, MO 63166 
/' 
MCDONNELl.. DOUGL.~ 
An equal opportunity employer. U.S. Citizenship requtred '-~~ 
-~~----­
-~~------·---·---------~---~ 









Editorials 
Thursday, October 16, 1980 -page 6 
P.O.BoxQ 
No standing . 

and definitely no parking 
Dear Edrtor, 
Once again, the policies of Notre Dame have made some­one unhappy. I am very upset becauseI have beenforced to pay a $50 traffic violation for failing to promptly obtain a s~dent decal for my car. I submitted a written appeal ofmy violation to the Traffic and Parking Appeals Board. This appeal was quickly turned down. 
In a second appeal, I stated my case verbally in front of the Board, and was told I was guilty. in the eyes of the Board. I then wrote a check to the Traffic Violations Bureau for $50. Thus, 

I  have  nothing left  to do but  
compla in out loud.  
The  University's  policy  on  

.registering student cars is that the students must register their cars (i.e. show proof of owner­ship and insurance coverage, and pay the $25 fee) within five days after bringing the car to campus. If this five day deadline is not met, the student is subject to a 
$50 no decal violation. 

Needless to say, I violated this rule and got nailed. But I don't want to argue my case any further. It is over and done with, and I have paid the $50 fine (and also the $25 registration fee). What I do want to do is·question some of the traffic laws around this place. 
First of all, where does any­body get the right to chargefifty dollars for not obtaining a decal on time? Doesn't that seem a little high? It is tied with 
falsifying or altering decals or lying on the registration application as the highest fine a student can receive. Ifone drives on campus without permission or parks in the wrong lot on a football weekend, the fine is $25. If the decal is "affixed im­properly" to a car, the fine is also $25. 
Interestingly enough, reckless driving (a combination of two or more violations or endangering life orproperty whtle driving is also $25. Speeding is a mere $10. Some­how, these fines strike me as being a little inconsistent. 
Now, the above fines apply only to students. The faculty and staffviolations are another story. The policy is that any faculty or staffmember who has chalked up three citations will receive a $10 fine. The first two citations serve as "warning citations." 
I don't want to jump to con­clusion's, but this smacks of a double standard. I don't know why or how this rule came about, but there seems to be plenty of room for skeoticism. 

Well, that is about all I have to say. Fron1 start to finish, my tangle with the Security Office and the Traffic Violations Bureau has been one long "bend over and grab 'em" type situa­tion. Basically, I am perturbed. Does anyone else out there feel unhappy with ridiculous fines they have received? Has anyone gotten angry while trying to get a car on campus? Ifi have correctly perceived the injustice of the University's policies regarding traffic violations, there ought to be a fair number ofstudents who 
feel as helpless and frustrated as I do. 
Martin L. Pippins 
NDnot a finishing school 
Dear Edztor, 
I would like to pose the following questions to the "tuition paying parent" who criticizedAnthony Walton in the Oct. 8 Observer. 
Could it be that Catholic parents are unwilling to take on the responsibility of raising their children to become mature adults? No, I should not gen­eralize. Let me just assert that there are an exceptional few who would prefer to let the institu­tions form the ideals and values of their offspring. 
Perhaps in the good old days, 
parents were correct in assuming 
that the private universities they 
were sending their children to 
were better labeled as glorified 
finishing schools; but somehow I 
rather doubt that. Fortunately, 
whatever the case was then, it is 
certainly not the same now. 
As one of the many students 
currently attending ND who has 
depleted his high school savings 
(money saved in lieu 'of buying a 
car, etc.), worked 70 hour weeks 
GREAT lm5 OF I~ 

during the summmer, juggled a work study job between classes, and who will still be paying off loans years after graduation, I would be very upset if I were to 
~ learn that ND was nothing more than a finishing school. Yes, I and many like me do exist who are 
paying our own tuition. So perhaps you can understand why I became a little annoyed at reading your words: "It is re:lsonable to assume that... the university has obligations not only to you as a student, but to us, the tuition-paying parents." 
I find it sad that there are students who are afraid of "wasting" their parents' money by majoring in what they are interested in. Rather than studying something which will apply to their lives 24 hours a day, they try to please their parents by learning something that will only get them through 40 hours a week. I hope that these students are the exception and not the rule, butI know they exist. It is too bad that there are those few wonderful parents who feel that they can use an other­wise generous act (and some­times even sacrifice) such as paymenCof tuition as a weapon to control the life oV their beloved child. 
Perhaps your words would not have upset me ifthey were not so close to the truth. The admini­stration does cater to the will of the donating alumni and tuition­paying parent before attending to the preference ofthe student. For example: -Due to the drinking problem, students may not have kegs on Green Field; alumni and parents may. -Tuition bills and grades will be sent to the parents, not to the student, even when the studentis paying his own way. -Dining halls will always be a pleasure to eat at on a football Saturday, as food wil be almost edible in anticipation ofsome parents and alumni who might eat there. 
I agree that growing up "takes time, experience, and is best accomplished with some guid­ance." That is why students should be allowed to form their own ideals and values here, instead of having these things dictated to them. At the University one has an abundance of professors, counselors, and theologians to talk to; however, if one must wait until he enters the "real world" before making these decisions, there may notbe the same good, Christian advice around. 

As for your invaluable quote from Ann Landers, I am sorry I missed it, but I do not follow her column. None of my professors have put her on their reading lists. Daniel Bell 
Marquard unfair to imported place kickers 
Dear Editor, 
With resentment, I read Bil Marquard's "Irish Items" colum (Observer•. Oct. 8). I will admit tha Harry Oliver is a good placekicker. However, the fact that he is a American has no relevance on th football field. Likewise, Obed Arir' and Vlade J anakiebski have talents that are independent oftheir race o nationality. 
I To make distinctions amon players on the basis of national origin is a tasteless display o prejudice (i.e. ignorance). I would like to advise Mr. Marquard to keep his personal bigotries and fantasies out of his otherwise acceptable column. 
Donald L. Jordan 

Editor's note: I regret that my comments were construed as such. My intent in mentioning Oliver's nationality had nothing to do with slurring those he shared the honor with. It was intended as a commentary on those universities which recruit on an international basis merely for the sake ofa winning athletic team. I was in no way indicting Ohio State or Clemson either: just making an editorial comment on the situation. 
Bill Marquard 

Doonesbury by Garry Trudeau 
HI,KI/JS! 
rR,Hl


Editorial Board ano Department Managers 
Editor-in-Chief.... ............. Paul Mullaney Sports Editor .................. Beth Huffman 
Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
Managing Editor. ..............•... Mark Rust Features Editor."..... .........• Molly Woulfe 
The Observer is an independent newspaper published by the students of the 
Editorials Editor ............... Mike Onufrak Photo f!ditor ................ ~ ....John Macor
University of Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's Collese. It does nor necessarily 
Senior Copy Editor .... ........... Lynne Daley Business Manager ............... Greg Hedges
reflect the policies of the administration of either instituuon. The news is reponed 
Executive News. Editor .......... TomJackmar:
as accurately and as objectively as possible. Editorials represent the opinion of a Controller.......................; . .Jim Rudd majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, opinions, and letters are the views News Editor . ................... Pam Degnan Advertising Man -ger. . . . . . . . • . ..... Mark Ellis of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community, and SMC Exec~~tive Editor .......... Margie Brassil Circulation Manag. ........... Beth Hackett the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged. SMC News Editor .............. . Mary Leavitt Production Manager ............. •John McGrath 

----~-------------------------~..,....,-~~------..,.-----------------~-------------~--, 





The Observer Extra 
An Observer news supplement 
Thursday, October 16,1980 
Board ofTrustees eet today at CCE 
By David Sarpbie 
The 1980 Fall meeting of the Notre Dame Board ofTrustees will convene at 9 a.m. tomorrow morning at the Center for Continuing Education. The regular meeting will be preceded by today's meetings of the seven standing committees. 
Topics in today's meetings will range from financial reports to new policies concerning faculty pension plans. 
The following committees will be meeting this afternoon: the Student Affairs Committee, the Executive Committee, the Academic and Faculty Affairs Committee, the Public Relations, Alumni Affairs and Development Committee, the Financial Affairs Committee, the Investment Committee and the N<tminating Committee. 
The Trustees will have a busy schedule tomorrow. Much of the dav will be occupied with reports from the various committees. Dea~ Emil Hofman will submit a presentation on the Freshman Year of Studies later in the day. 
Also on the agenda is a report on the Campaign for Notre Dame, a essful five-year drive to raise $1 30 million for the university. ruction reports concerning the new Stepan Chemistry Building 
the two new girls' dorms will follow. Following lunch for the trustees and their wives at the new Snite urn ofArt, there will be the dedication ofa new professorship in 
. The new chairman of the Theology Department, Fr. cha McBrien, will be installed in this new position. The major nefactors of this professorship are Jerome]. Crowley, a trustee­
ritus, and the O'Brien Corporation. The day will conclude with Mass and dinner for the Board. McBrien II give an after-dinner speech for members of the Board. 
RiehJe takes proposals Student Affairs 
How the committees work 
Committee  Function  
Functions  as  surrogate Board when  actual  Board  not  
Exerutive  meeting....Composed of committee chairmen, administra­tors, and at-large members appointed by Stephan.... Chair­ 
man: Hesburgh.  

Committee most directly related to student life....stu· dents can make proposals to this committee, which in turn makes recommendations to the University....will determine whether or not Student Senate should have power of 
Student Affairs 
CLC. ... Chairman: Schneider. 


Academic and 

Develops and reviews University academic program.... recommended new tenure appeal procedure at last meeting,

Faculty Affairs 

was later adopted by Faculty Senate....Chairman: Carney 
Monitors business proceedings of the University....draws up annual University budset....responsible for recommend­

Financial Affairs 

ing amount of yearly tuttion increase to general Board, which usually assents.... Chairman: Van Gorkin. 
Invests University endowment and other funds in its jurisdiction....Has mcreased ND endowment to one of highest in country....Was at center of investment contro­versy in 1978, decided not ot divest stock in South African-assiciated corporations ....Chairman: Wilmouth. 
Investment 


Public Relations, 

Oversees programs dealing with public relations, alumni and fund raising ...Partly responsible for increasing Univer· 

Alumni Affairs 

sity endowment.... Chairman: Foley.

and Development 
Nominates new members to fill committee vacancies.... General Board then acts on nominations....Holds elections every six years ....Chairman: Stephan.

Nominating 
By Tom jackman Executive News Editor 
Buoyed by a 55 percent turn­
out in Tuesday's successful 
Student Constitution referend­
um, Student Body President 
Paul Riehle goes in front of the 
Student Affairs Committee of 
the Board of Trustees this after­
noon to request that the 
"recommendation power" ofthe 
Campus Life Council~ be trans­
ferred to his newly created 
Student Senate. 
Riehle, along with Don 
Murday, will also present several 
proposals aimed at improving 
campus social life, and Riehle 
and Off-Campus Commissioner 
Mark Kelley will detail suggested 
changes to improve the off-cam­
pus student crime situation. 
Although the referendum 
turnout was only five percent 
more than the requirement (66 
percent had to vote "yes," and a 
whopping 96 percent actually 
did), Riehle was pleased with the 
results, and claimed that if The 
Observer had been published un 
time Tuesday, containing the 
popular "Molarity" comic strip 
with a vote promotion as well as 
three separate articles, the turn­out would have been closer to 70 percent. 
At present, only the CLC has the authority to present pro­posals to the University which must be responded to-either positively or negatively-, and Riehle will ask the Student Affairs Committee to transfer that authority to the Student Senate. "I honestly don't know what their reaction's goin~. to 

be," he said yesterday, but adde-. 
that having a larger turnout than Di U . . . 

most student government elec-scuss ruverstty tssues 
tions "will help us incredibly." 
tr~~:!:1· ~:fo~::;a~;~tc:~o~:r~::; Board 'WOrks throuuh COtntnittee 
been favorable, according tc ~ ' Riehle. Rieh!e plans to discuss By Tim Vercellotti comprised of from five to seven large members who are appointed 
the past htstor~ _of stude~t Staff Reporter men:bers, and no Trustee is by the Chairman of the Board o government, pomtmg up tts reqUired to serve on more than Trustees. Fr. Theodore M. inadequacies, and also delineate All of the issues which the one commitee. The chairman of Hesburgh chairs the Executive 
the relati<Jilship between the Board of Trustees takes into each committee is responsible Committee. Student Senate and 'the still consideration at its biannual for calling a meeting of his res­
Non-academic aspects uexistent CLC. Riehle said he meetings are the result ofrecom-pective committee at least twice student life are the subject ofthwants to continue to use the CLC mendations from a network of a year. "The number ofmeetings Student Affairs Committee. Thas a "sounding board," admitting committees, comprised ofBoard held each year is dictated by committee, which is headed bthat it served few other purposes members. According toJames E. circumstances," Murphy stated. 
John A. Schneider, president othan that. Murphy, Associate Vice-The committees usually meet Warner Amex Satellite Enter·
Along with Don Murday, president for Public Relations the day before the Board of Riehle will also present several Trustees meets. tainment Corporation, main
and Development and briefing tains communication withimportant proposals to improve officer for the Board, most ofthe student leaders and organiza­the social atmosphere on cam-work is done in committee 
pus. Under the category of tions. Students are appointed to
sessions.
"Student Social Facilities," Who are the serve as ex-officio mem"bers of
"AJI business of the Board of
Riehle will make three pro­the committee. Among recent
Trustees is conducted through
posals: modification of the Cornrnlttee business conducted by the com­
' the committees initially, and
LaFortune Ballroom into a mittee was the issue of student
nothing comes before the Board Chairmen?
coffeehouse, construction of a social space. The committee
until it has been submitted to a 
new student center building, and recommended to the Board that 
committee," Murphy explained. 
a request for matching funds to --page 8 better use be made of the
After the respective commit­
residence halls for social space ex~sting social space. 
tee hears a proposal, the mem­
improvement. The Academic and Faculty
bers of the committee offer a
Riehle and Murday, encourag­Each committee is assigned to Affairs Committee deals with the 
recommendation to the full
ed by Administration reaction to a particular area having to do development and review of the
Board. Ifan item fails to receive a 
their proposals, are optimistic with the University, and a com­current academic program, and
recommendation, the issue is
about their chances for success mittee report is submiitted by the direction in which the pro­
dropped. Murphy called it "most
today. The proposal to turn the each chairman when the entire gram is heading. At its May 1
unusual" that a proposal would
LaFortune BaJiroom into a Board gathers in the spring and meeting, the committee, chaired 
be heard by the entire Board
coffeehouse will combine the in the fall. by Dr. Thomas P. Carney,
without first receiving approval 
best qualities of seniors John The Executive Committee president of the Metatech cor·
from a committee. · 
Amato and Pat Andrews' "New functions as the surrogate Board poration, discussed faculty retire­
The seven committees under
Chatauqua" proposal, a well­of Trustees when the Board is ment benefits, fringe benefits for 
the Board of Trustees are the
-conceived plan which met with not meeting. This particular those presently teaching at the
Executive, Student Affairs
committee approval last May, committee is made up of the University, and a possible
Academic and Faculty Affairs:
along with former Vegetable officers ofthe Board ofTrustees, procedure for appealing promo­
Financial, Investment, Public
Buddies proprietor Andrew the chairmen ofeach committee, tion and tenure procedures.
Relations, and Nominating com­
[continued on page 10] officers of the University and at-[continued on page 10] ' 
mittees. The committees are 

------.,..--~--------~---­
--------------~-~----· 
The Observer 



Ambiguity dogs Board history 
By Pam Degnan -New.r Edtfor 
In its thirteen year existence, 
Dame Board of 
has been continually 

rceived by the student body as 
the most ambiguous 
policy-maker. Al­
though some attempts have been made to coordinate communica­tion between Board members and student government organ­izations, it is an undeniable fact ·that a majority of the students 
.tre unaware of the exact nature 
.md function ofthis power-wield­
,n~ structure. In addition, the 
B;)ard' s practice of operating 
under closed sessions further contributes to its rather elusive nature. 
In 1967, the University's governmental body, then known as the Associate Board of Trustees, was reorganized into the presentday Board. At the time, the Associate Board, com­posed of six priests, was pri­marily responsible for the financial transactions undertak­en by the University and had no direct bearing on specific University decision making. During a three-year transition period in which the Board moved from a clerical to an over­whelmingly secular body, the University set up new by-laws and statutes that would guide the Board in manv of its decisions. 
Two year; later, student government representatives, frustrated by the ineffectiveness of its governmental structure, confronted the Board with its proposal for a Student Life Council which, they stressed, would break down communica­tion barriers between the students and the Administration. The Board unanimously approv­ed the proposal. The following year, in its spring session, the Board debated and approved the institution of parietals on cam­pus. 

The topic of co-education 
surfaced at Notre Dame in 1971. 
After meeting with the Saint 
Mary's Board of Trustees to 
discuss the possibility ofmerging 
both schools,(in which after 
much detailed research and de­
bate the merger fell through), 
the Notre Dame trustees ap­
proved the idea of co-education 
and earmarked this transition for 
the fall of 1972. 
The social atmosphere at the University was the prime con­cern of the Board in 1973. Hearing· continuous complaints from student leaders concerning the lack of activities on campus and the limited social oppor­tunities, the Board approved the use of alcohol on campus, how­ever, left specifics such as kegs and party rules in the hands of the Administration. Board mem­bers also voted "yes" to a plan that called for an extensive and costly renovation of LaFortune and the Huddle. 
In 197~, the renovation of LaFortune was completed. The Board also passed a plan for the reorganization of the SLC which cut down the size of the council from 24 to 15 members. And, perhaps the most controversial issue that the Board had to face in its short span was to explore the recommendation for a co-ed dorm on campus which was compiled by the Committee on Undergraduate Life. The Board discussed this issue at great length, however, no steps were taken to actively carry out this proposal. The Public Relations and Development Committee was established and it undertook a campus Summa program which had raised nation-wide over $63 million between 1969-1972. The Notre Dame Magazine was created under the auspices ofthis committee as was the birth ofan annual Notre Dame campaign. Prior to this move, donations to 
[continued on page 10] 
Board chronology 
• 
1967-Board of Trustees reorganize 

• 
1969-approve the creation of a Student Life Council -institute parietal system -discuss ND-SMC merger with Saint Mary's Board of 

Tru.>tecs 


• 
1971-Boan1 approves co-education at Notre Dame -approv,•d SLC recommendation that University 


sanct1 )ns be placed on violations for larceny, assualt and seUng of drugs on campus. 
-rejected SLC recommendation that individual halls determine their own parietal hours. 
•·1973-approved use ofalcohol on campus(no mention of 
kegs at this time.) -devised plan for renovation of LaFortune and 
Huddle 

-creat.on of Printing and Public Relations Develop­
ment Committee. 

• 1975 -renovation of LaFortune completed. -approved reorganization of SLC . -Committee on Undergraduate L1fe recommends 
establishing a co-ed dorm on campus. 
• 1978-Board rejects proposal to subsidize off-campus housing 
-adopted new policy regarding University invest­ments in South Africa. 

Fr. Theodore M. He.rburgh 

Chairman of Executive Com­mittee; University President since 1952; Prof. of Theology 1945-49, departmental chairman 1948; University Executive V. Pres. 1952; Rockefeller Founda­tion Board member since 1963, chairman 1977; Chase Manhat­tan Bank Board member, Ambassador United Nations Conference on Technology 1979; Education: BA Notre Dame and Gregorian University of Rome 1940, Ordained Congregation of the Holy Cross 1943; S.D.T. Catholic University of America 194 5; Affiliations: U.S. Civil Rights Commission 1957-72, chairman 1969-72, Director ­
Council on Foreign Relations, Presidential Board on Clemency for Vietnam Draft Evaders and Deserters, International Federa­tion of Catholic Universities president 196 3-70, Presidential Medal of Freedom bestowed by Lyndon B. Johnson 1964. 

Chairman  of  Investment  
Committee.  Pres.  and  chief  
executive  officer  of  Chicago  

Board of Trade since 1977; v­pres First National Bank of Chicago 1961-66, senior v-pres. 
1966-69, mgr of First National Milan Italy branch bank, exec­utive v-pres. 1972-75; pres. and chief executive officer of Crocker National Bank 1975-77; Director of Private Export Fund and Victoria Station; Education: BA Holy Cross College 1949, MA from Notre Dame 1950, 

Chairman of Committee on Financial Aff:1irs. Chairman and ChiefExecutive officer for Trans Union Corp. since 1978, con­troller 1956-63, pres 1963-78; Partner ofArthur Andersen and Co. accounting firm since 1954; Director ofiC Industries, Illinois Central GulfRailroad, Schering­Plough, Midas International, and Champion International; Educa­tion: BS University of Illinois 1939· 
Thursday, October 16, 1980­
Bios of C'nmmittee Chairmen 



Thoma.r P Carney john A. Schnetder 
Chairman of Committee on 
Chairman of Committee on Academic and Faculty Affairs. Student Affairs. President Pres. and chief executive Meta­Warner Amex Satellite Entertain­tech Corp. since 1976; former ment Corp. 1979, Senior v-pres executive v-pres. of G.D. Searle CBS Inc. 1977-78, pres. CBS and Co.; formerly with Eli Lilly Broadcast Group 1966-69 and and Co.; former chairman of 1971-77, pres. CBS Television American Chemical Society, Network 1965-66, v-pres. and national chairman of medicinal general mgr. WCBS-TV in New division, member of executive York 1964-65, v-pres and committee of organic division; general mgr WCAU-TV in Phila­Education: bachelor degree delphia; Education: BS Notre CHEG from Notre Dame, Dame 1948, served as U.S. Naval master and doctorate degrees Officer during World War II; from Pennsylvania State Univer­Affiliations: board vice chairman sity, postdoctorate studies in for The American Film Institute, medicinal chemistry from Oceanic Society trustee. University of Wisconsin. 



Paul Foley 
Edmund A. Stephan
Chairman of Committee on Public Relations, Alumni Affairs, 

Chairman of the Board ofand Development. Finance Trustees. Chairman of Nomina­Committee Chairman for The ting Committee. Senior Partnerlnterpublic Group ofCompanies in law firm ofMayer, Brown, and
Inc., board of directors since 

Platt in Chicago; Director:
1971, pres. and chief executive Brunswick Corp., Stepanofficer 1971-73, chairman 1973. 

Chemical Co., Marsh andMcCann-Erickson board chair­McLennan Companies Inc.,
man 1964-69, reporter The Bunker Ramo Corp; Education:

Chio-ago American 1937-38, 

AB University of Notre Dameeditorial stafffor Detroit Free Pre.rs 
1933, LL.B Harvard Law Schooland Pontiac Press 1938-39; Educa­1939; Affiliations: Pres. Lawtion: BA-Journalism Notre 
Club of Chicago, Trustee­Dame 1937; Affiliations: Direc­Arthur ]. Schmitt Foundation,tor of The Advertising Council, 
ABA Commission on Law andmember of development com­the Economy, Director­
mittees for United Fund, Chicago Council on ForeignNational Multiple Sclerosis, and Relations.

Urban League, Director of Fine Arts Fund, member National Historical Society. 


~************************~ 
Material compiled by 
Mary Capsa 
and Mike 0 , Bnen 




·~--~ -·----------~~~--~~------~--------...., 
fhe Observer 






President, Caron International, New York, NY. 






York, NY. 






Notre Dame Board of Trustees 


Atlanta, Ga. 


-, 











• 
College, 


~r~--~-~~~~~~-------­
----~-----­

' 
' 
he Observer Thursday, October 16, 1980 -page 10 
-· 
and in many campus social "Six are still living with their events, "people at;e being forced parents, three are divorced, and
... Committees 
together" in an uncomfortable the other one is separated." 

manner. A student center, which Riehle and Murday will also • • . Board 
is tentatively planned to include propose that a board of two
[continued from page 7] 

a bowling alley, a 24-hour trustees, two students and two [continued from page 8]
University budget, subject to the account the needs of the stand­"eatery" and a movie theater, administrators be formed to approval of the Board of Trus­ing committees, and it considers would alleviate this problem, the University were placed in a men and women who can fill monitor actions between meet­general fund and was spent as
tees. As a result of their last Murday feels. 
meeting a budget of$92,148,000 those needs. The Nominating ings of the Board. Murday point­administrators saw fit. 
was submitted to, ahd approved Committee, chaired by Edmund Additionally, Riehle pointed ed out that it is frustrating to se · Additionally in 1978, the by, the full Board. A. Stephan, proposed the nom­out that results of the recently the Board recommend a course Board vetoed a student proposal The Investment Committee is ination of Anthony F. Earley, distributed student survey on of acti~ity, and then through a· that the Universicy subsidize off­in charge of investing the immediate past president of the slowdown of "bureaucratic campus housing. The Financial _University's endowment and Notre Dame Alumni Association, bull-", as Murday termed it, Committee recommended that other funds placed under its at last Mav's meeting of the the University continue its stock
nothing ever occurs. The board 
hold in South African companies 
jurisdiction. The committee, Board of T;ustees. -"Where do you would report to the Student 
rather than adopt a policy of
under the chairmanship of All of these committees have 
Affairs Committee, !lpdating 
divestiture.

Robert K. Wilmouth, President met at least once since the Board take a date?" them on action taken since the 
The Board of Trustees will be
and Chief Executive Officer of of Trustees gathered in the 
last meeting. 

on campus this 'weekend to hear
the Chicago Board of Trade, spring. When the Board con­
two new student petitions: 1.)
submitted a report last May to venes today, a representative of Additionally, Riehle and 
Kelley will propose that the that the University reallocate the
the full Board that placed the each committee will submit a *********>, 
"recommendation abilities" of
University's endowment at report detailing the business that Board purchase land for off-cam­
pus housing. Riehle noted that the CLC to a new Student Senate
$151,368,000. has transpired since May. 
Programs dealing with public "There's no place an administrator suggested a which was recently passed by an 
relations, alumni, and fund t o go ... location of Douglas Road for a overwhelming student vote and" 2.) that the University provide
raising are under the auspices of set of University-owned town­
the Public Relations, Alumni houses, but he would also like to 
for the construction of a new
• • • Riehle 

student center which would,
Affairs, and Development Com­see ND purchase houses in mittee. This committee is [continued from page 7] ********~ South Bend and create a housing according to student govern­district. This plan has been ment leaders, curb many of the
headed by Paul Foley, who is Panelli's proposal for sound and "Notre Dame social problems found on cam­
chairman of the Finance rejected by theAdministration in
other physical modifications in 

Committee for The Interpublic the past. pus.
the Ballroom. Riehle said he will

Group of Companies, Inc. doesn't prepare 
ask for a definite, immediate Business proceedings of the answer, either affirmatively or 
University are monitored by the negatively on this proposal. people for life." EJections deczde 
Financial Affairs Committee, Murday said that University 
with Jerome W. Van Gorkin, officials recognize the need for a 
********~-Board composition
Chairman and Chief Executive student center, but are reluctant 
social space indicated a large

officer of the Trans Union Cor­to put forth the money. Murday 
number of students advocating In the statutes of the Univer­
poration, serving as chairman. stressed the importance of a By Jim Rosengarten
the decrease ofthe present male­sity, and the bylaws of the Board
Among the responsibilities of "third haven, a place to relax and 
female ratio at Notre Dame. ofTrustees, it requires thata new 
the committee are a five year meet people other than the In the transition period in 
election of the Board take place 
financial plan for the University, dining halls or the library." He which the Priests of Holy Cross 
Murday said that college social every six years. 
with the educational goals ofthe noted that "social life centers turned over executive control of 
life is an integral part ofa student The people who constitute the
institution in mind. The com­around the dorms....but social­the University to laymen, a 
education, and Notre Dame Board are chosen for their
mittee also draws up a tentative ization stops at 12 or 2 a.m. group of six lay persons and six 
"doesn'tprepare people for life." achievements in education,
Holy Cross priests were selected
The group responsible for sub­There's no place to go after 
He cited the rising number of business, or excellence in
to constitute the Fellows of the
mitting names to be considered that." 
patients handled by Psychologic­another profession. Included on
University. In 1967, the Fellows
for election to the Board of Murday asked rhetorically, "If 
al Services every year, and also the Board are such notables as
elected the first Board of
Trustees is the Nominating you're on campus on a Friday Trustees.
Committee. In performing its night, where do you take a date?" ten ND graduates whom he has duty, this committee takes into The choices are few, he noted, followed since their departure. 
... Board ofTrustees 




Honorable john D. Rockefeller
Fr. Edmund P. Joyce 
Executive Vice President, Governor of West Virginia, Notre Dame. Charleston, W. Va. Appliances Co., Pittsburgh, Pa. 
Chairman, Mine Safety 





John D. Rockefeller, the gover­nor ofWest Virginia;Jane Cahill Pfeiffer, recently deposed head ofNBC-TV; as well as University administrators such as Fr. Theodore Hesburgh and Fr. Edmund Joyce. Most Board members are chairmen or presidents of companies, many with religious affiliations· or 
backgrounds. 

The Board meets twice a year­once in October and once in May. There are no attendance requirements, but if a trustee misses several meetings, it would be considered a lack ofinterest in the University, and thatTrustee's chance of re-election would be low, according to James E. Murphy, the associate vice president ofPublic Relationsan,d Development. For example. Murphy said he doubts that Rockefeller would be able to make this meeting because he is up for re-election as governor of West Virginia. However, this would be excusable. 
While the Board of Trustees meets only twice a year, the committees under the Board meet several times a year. These committees are made up of five to 12 trustees. They hold an important function since all business taken up at a Board of Trustees meeting must be brought up through one ofthese committees. 
Ideally, the committees study the subject before the Board meeting, come to a conclusion, and make a recommendation to the Board. 
Since the Board of Trustees is the highest governing body at Notre Dame, no one evaluates them between election years. However, the elections them­selves can serve as an evaluation and may result in the elimination of one of the trustees. 
~­


-----------~---------­
-~ 

---------l 


Features 
Thursday, October 16, 1980 -page 11 

Yes finds rock-n-roll 
After last year's disastrous Notre 
Dame concert, the British classical 
rock quintet Yes had a lot to make up 
for. Speculation was, however, that the 
loss ofaerial vocalistJonAnderson and 
consummate keyboard wizard Rick 
Wakeman would cripple the mega­
talented group irreversibly. How could 
the New Wave replacements, Trevor 
Horn and Geoff Downes, from the 
Buggies, fill the shoes of such rock 
greats? 
After the concert, it was apparent 
that the new additions had no inten­
tion of filling anyone's shoes. Nine of 
the fifteen songs performed were 
either from the new LP Drama, or as yet 
unrecorded material. Obviously, the 
new Yes is precisely that, a new band, 
and they tried to the utmost to 
convince their league of fans that this 
was a better group. For the most part, 
the concert was very convincing-the 
new Yes is different, if not better. 
For openers, new lead vocalist Horn 
at least makes an attempt to relate to 
his audience. Anderson used to simply 
perch himself midstage and perform, 
seemingly oblivious to audience 
response, but Horn likes to introduce 
songs, talk to the band between 
numbers, and simply have a good time., 
His relaxed manner and friendly smile 
gave one the impression that his mind 
was in the arena, not spiraling 
intrepidly across the cosmos. 
Freshman keyboardist Downes scurried from synthesizer to piano to clavinet with the ease and skill of a squirrel collecting nuts for the winter with a countenance focused with concentration. Though he lacks the speed and dexterity of Wakeman, his predecessor, Downes seems more of a true showman. Besides maintaining an attractive physique, which female members of the audience obviously enjoyed, Downes often displayed a freewheeling attitude and encouraged the crowd's cheering responses. Wakeman, like Anderson, simply performed, and his classical training sometimes limited his patience with the audience. Downes, however, is a true rocker who thrives on audience response and participation, and is infinitely more personable. 
This more accessible, relaxed, rock­
n-roller attitude is the new strength of 
Yes. The opening tune, "Does It 
Really Happen?" features a straight 
ahead emphasis on rhythm, which 
drummer Alan White provided amply, 
and on Chris Squire's indomitable 
bass solos, which he ripped off as 
spritely as an automatic rifle. The few 
older pieces performed were of this 
simpler, less orchestrated style, 
namely "Yours Is No Disgrace," and a 
sloppy version of"Roundabout." "Go 
Through This," an as yet unrecorded 
song, seems to be the direction of the 
new Yes: upbeat, conventional rock-n­
roll. 
Unfortunately, this new approach is also the primary weakness of the new Yes. Gone are the complex guitar overlays of virtuoso Steve Howe, who displayed so little ofhis immense talent in a short acoustic solo featuring "The Clap." Though rock-n-roll is a lot of fun, it should be balanced with the older, more symphonic, progressive Yes style. That, apparently, has been discarded. 
It seems that Yes has grown too· sensitive to audience response, giving the masses what they want to hear rather than trying to find new musical avenues to experiment with. Geoff Downes' keyboard solo, entitled "White Car," from the new album, toyed with shifting melodic tones and colors in a difficult and complex manner, while still maintaining some accessibility. The audience's response 
was minimal, at best. Chris Squire's subsequent bass solo, began with "Amazing Grace" (no, I don't. understand it, either) and caromed off into a loud cacophony which can only be labeled as pure BS. The crowd cheered emphatically. Obviously, Yes is drawing a slightly less sophisticated crowd who simply wants to rock. 
The question is, what's wrong with that? Thanks to a rotating stage in the center of the ACC, everyone had a good seat, and the concert was, on the whole, simply a good time. Though most critics (including the idiot for the South Bend Tribune) will have a difficult time adjusting to the new Yes sound, most of the concert-going public will enjoy the change. 
Scoop Sullivan 
Paul Simon 
One-Trick Pony 

Rock Quiz IV Warner Bros. 


(an easy one) 
Last week's quiz must have been very, very tough (or else nobody really cares anymore), because I received no entries at all, correct or otherwise. The answers to last week's stumper appear below this week's quiz. 
This week, I am extending the deadline for correct entries to the Monday after break. That will give you time to look up the answers if you want to cheat. (Ofcourse, I'll have no way of knowing that.) But ifyou already know the answers, why wait? If you're like me, you tend to forget things over break. Bring your answers to the Observer office on the third floor of LaFortune, and-who knows?-you could be the next $10 winner. 
This quiz may be the easiest one I throw at you all year. I am going to name a hit song; all you have to do is identify the album from which it was taken. 
1. "Lady" by Styx 

2. 
"How Can You Mend a Broken Heart" by the Bee Gees 

3. 
"In the Navy" by the Village People 

4. 
"Listen to What the Man Said" by Wings 


5. "Help Me" by Joni Mitchell 

6. 
"Yellow Submarine" by the Beatles 

7. 
"The Show Must Go On" by Three Dog Night 


8. "Barbara Ann" by the Beach Boys 

9. 
"Signed, Sealed, Delivered (I'm Yours)" by Peter Frampton 

10. 
"lfiCan't Have You" by Yvonne Elliman 


Here are the answers to last week's quiz: (1) "Captain Fantastic and the Brown Dirt Cowboy" by Elton John was the first album to debut at number one; (2) "Hey Jude" by the Beatles debuted at #3 hut peaked at #2; (3) "Flowers" came out six months after its predecessor, yet contained two songs its predecessor had; (4) "Let It Bleed" was the last Stones' LP to use Brian Jones; (5) "Other Voices" was the first post-Jim Morrison Doors album; (6) "John Denver's Greatest Hits" was the number two album of both 1974 and 1975; (7) "Wonderwall Music" by George Harrison was the first solo Beatie album, from thP. movie "Wonderwall"; (8) "Peter Gabriel" was the name of all three solo releases by Genesis' former lead singer; (9) "No Commercial Potential" was the un­released Mothers of Invt:ntion three­record set; and (10) "Days of Future Passed" by the Moody Blues, with the London Festival Orchestra, was the first rock LP to be recorded entirely in conjunction with an orchestra. 
Tim Neely 
Ignore the fact that it has been five 
years since Paul Simon's last all-new 
album (the Grammy Award winner of 
Album of the Year in 1975, Still Crazy 
After All These Years). Ignore the fact 
that it was three years ago when Simon 
released his last new performances, the 
top-5 hit "Slip Slidin' Away," and 
"Stranded in a Limousine," both of 
which appeared on his Greatest Hits, 
Etc. album. Ignore the fact that Paul 
Simon actually bought the remainder 
ofhis contract from Columbia Records 
so he could solve his contract troubles. 
Even ignore (for now) the fact that his 
new album, One-Trick Pony, is the 
soundtrack from the movie he's been 
working on with the same eye at 
perfection that he has on his albums. 
But do pay attention to the fact that 
Paul Simon has outdone himself again; 
this album is probably his best. 
This album probably could have 
been released a year ago or longer. 
Seven ofthe ten songs have a copyright 
date of 1978, the other three were 
published in 1979. The delay probably 
resulted from a combination of 
Simon's contract difficulties, the 
desire of Simon (and Warner Brothers 
Records, his new label) to wait until the 
movie was finished to release the 
album, and the fact that Paul Simon 
likes his albums to be "perfect" (a Ia 
Steely Dan, Stevie Wonder, and others 
who take years to release new 
material). Working on the..movie at the 
same time as this album didn't help 
speed up the timetable any. 
Since Simon and Garfunkel broke 
up, the "poet" of the group has been 
getting away from the themes of 
alienation and loneliness which 
dominated Simon's writing in the S&G 
days while more or less leaving the 
folk-oriented music of those days 
behind. Instead, Simon has written 
more optimistic, cheery, personal 
songs about relationships and other 
stuff that '60s "folkies" would not have 
considered "important." His music has 
become more diversified as well, 
influenced by music as varied as 
classical, big band, Latin, and reggae. 
As a result, Paul Simon put out three or 
four of the better albums of the 
seventies, each new one-better than 
the last. He continues this progression 
with One Trick Pony. 
Musically, many styles are represented, as usual, and represented well. There is the Latin feel of"Late in the Evening"; the pseudo-disco effect ofparts of"One-Trick Pony" and "Ace in the Hole," the latter of which, as soon as one is hypnotized by the beat, the tempo changes for a few bars to break the monotony, and then goes 
'back to the original beat; the blues (to a degree) in "Oh, Marion"; and jazz ; influence is everywhere. The so-called 
"Dire Straits guitar effect" is heard in 
at least half the tracks, cutting and biting through Simon's tight backup band (for the first time, Simon used essentially the same musicians for each track, and also, two ofthese songs were recorded live with nothing more than his band-no strings or horns). Several of the band members are from jazz backgrounds, thus the strong jazz influence on the album. 

But it is lyrically where Paul Simon continues to shine as brightly as ever. There has to be some reason why he was able to teach a course in songwriting and get away with it, and Simon continues to show us why. He continues to write songs that we can all relate to in one way or another. For now, continuing to ignore the fact that this is a movie soundtrack and judging the songs on their own merits, "That's Why God Made the Movies" is a tale of the need to escape from a real world which isn't too good ("and that's why God made the movies"). "How the Heart Approaches What It Yearns" is the kind of song nearly everyone who has ever fallen in love can relate to (except for the names and a few other changes). Or, how about the lines from 
"Oh, Marion": "The only time/ That love is an easy game/Is when two other people/Are playing it." Almost everyone has felt that way at one time or another. Simon also works with irony in the song "Nobody." It seems to be a song of unhappiness-"Who took my two hands and made them four/Who is my heart, who is my door/Nobody"-but then he adds, " ... nobody but you, girl," and it becomes a song ofexactly the opposite sentiment. Yet the fact remains that this album is intended to be a movie soundtrack and must also be judged as such. 
When most rock-related artists do movie sound tracks, the songs turn out to be either gloppy and watered-down (e.g., Electric Light Orchestra's songs in Xanadu, Neil Diamond's in jonathan Livingston Seagull) or totally irrelevant 
(e.g. almost all ofElvis Presley's movie songs, the Beatles' songs in He/pl). However, One-Trick Pony didn't turn out that way. In fact, if this wasn't a movie soundtrack, it could just as easily be a rock opera. One can get a good idea what the movie is about by listening to the songs and reading the lyrics (as usual, included with the album). Try to do that with Saturday Night Fever or Grease (the movie soundtrack has the songs hopelessly out of order), for example. The songs on One Trick Pony seem to be in order, from the introduction ("Late in the Evening") to the finale ("Long, Long Day"). 
Ifthere is a weak point in this album, it is the fact that the songs are neither written nor sung from Paul Simon's own point of view. They are supposed to reflect the point of view of the character he plays in the movie. Therefore, the songs are not as personal as his prior solo songs. For example, "Late in the Evening" is not an autobiography of Paul Simon, it is an autobio[ 1phy of the character he plays. There is really no way to know that just by listening to the song on the radio by itself. The only exception to this might be "Ace in the Hole"; that song stands on its own well and could well be the oext single from the album. 
Musically, the year 1980 has been a bad year for the established artists. Many of them have put out material inferior to the music which made them superstars in the first place (e.g_ Billy Joel, Bob Seger, Paul McCartney). So don't let the AM hit "Late in the Evening" (which, even I will admit, is probably the most blatantly com­mercial song, musically, that Simon has ever released) turn you off from One-Trick Pony; the rest of the album makes up for it easily. 

Tim Neely 

The~~Clbsener===================== 


~c:}c:lcat~=========================T=hm==sd=~='=O=ct=o=be=r=16=,=1=9=80=-=p=~=e=l=2 
Campus 

Molarity, 
Michael Molinelli 

---------------.
•1 p.m. -suvon show, 
i ... P~ L. CARBOt\l MICRO­
YEAH AIJI> i)JIS I-'
memorial library lounge, all 
PHD~E!> WITH AN I,._,PEO· 

VV~I THS' TEL£PHOHE'
faculty and staff invited. 
I ENC( COIJAJTER. ~tcnVe 

YOU sHoULD SEE MY
• 4-7 p.m. -off campus 

students bring goods for 1-2.0dl> storage to room c-2, second :J>R£'GI~Iei\J floor Iafortune. 
• 7 p.m. -lecture, rich harrow, author of sports 
· violence and the law, memorial library aud., sponsors: law school and student government. 

• 
7,9,&11 p.m.-film, "the african queen," engr. aud. 


• 
7:30 p.m. -movie, "olympia," washington hall. ,.;

• 
9 p.m. -nazz, "high plains drifters." 





Gourmet Oub plans 
season 
Two complaints voiced throughout the Notre Dame student body involve the in­adequacies ofthe dining halls and 
the social environment. In an attempt to remedy a portion of this problem, some students have become inteested in organ­izing a Gourmet Club. Last semester, the group was formed on a limited experimental basis and received a very positive response from its roughly 60 charter members. 
The structure of the Gourmet Club centers on distinct dinner groups of six to eight men or women, each of which is coordinated by a head chef for that group. The main functions of the head chefare to assemble six to eight interested friends, to communicate with head chefs of other dinner groups, and to be responsible for organizing the host meals of his or her re­spective group. 
In the past, imaginative meals have included French dinners by candlelight, champagne brunch­es, and various ethnic meals. 
Tentatively, the Gourmet Club intends to begin its cooking season the first weekend after break. Anyone interested in getting together a dinner group should attend the brief organi­zational meeting at 6:30 p.m. tonight, in LaFortune's Little Theater. 
When the number ofindividu­al groups has been specifically determined, a dinner schedule will be distributed to each ofthe Head Chefs. : 
Anyone wno would like to meetnew people around a home­cooked meal is welcome. If you have any questions or cannot attend the meeting, contact Kathy Welsh, 135 Breen-Phillips Hall, #1267. 
~------------------·
I STUDENTS  
)  Clean Your Car  
J  FREE  
i  
~  Dick's Standard  

·t 1102 South Bend Ave. 
) 
' Coupon Good for 1 Free 
,, Car Wash 
·'---~--_____________, 


The Daily Crossword 

© 1980 by Chicago Trlbune-N.Y. News Synd. Inc. All Rights Reserved 

300 guys 2'»0 girls all you can drink 21 id required no lightweights allowed!!! 
ACROSS 28 "-Kapital" 44-passu 20 Summer, 1 Head man 31 Springes 46 Acquire in Metz 5 Parent 32 Good -knowledge 21 Lively, in 9 Part (very 49 President music 
of G.B.S. angry) 55 NY city 24 Railroad 13 False god 34 Dynamite 56 Uncouth car 14 Small 35 Picnic one 25 Litigation 
opening pest 57 Comfort term 15 Snapshot 36 Opening 58 Cowboy's 27 ldl 16 -conten· 37 One or rope 29 Magnani and 
dere more 59 A Guthrie Alberghetti 17 Branchia 38 Omega's 60 Louiseor 30 Lower world 18 More crude cousin Turner river 19 President 39 Dog 61 Created 31 Look at 22 "Victory-" 40 African 62 Viewed attentively 23 Bakery seaport 63 Attertip 32 Oman, Aden, 
worker 41 Sin or gang et al. 24 Embankment 42 Eve's boy 33 Baseball 26 Talk 43 Small DOWN number 
wildly children 1 Crosby 36 Sweet 2 Reputation potato 3 One-man 40 Poems stint 43 Coloror 


4 Europeans cycle 5 Rom.Cath. 45 Winged dignitaries 47 School, 6 Linda Lavin In Aries 
role 48 Ohioclty 7 President 49 Wretch 8 Tamarisk 50 Bones 9 Laminated 51 Grad. Sch. 
rock bus. degs. 10 President 52 Milk, in 11 Solar disk Nice 12 Last-53 Slave of 
(latest yore thing) 54 Calendar 15 Go before unit 
LOCKUP 
your Valuables 
-

during fall break 
~Items to. 

-~ 
LaFortune 2-C 
~ / Thurs. Oct. 16 
/

4:30-7:00 Fri. Oct. 17 9:00-12:00 
The Observer Sports Special -SMCtennis 

Senior Maureen A 0 'Bnen plays fourth singles andpairs with teammate Patsy Coash as one ofthe state's top duos. 
Patsy Coash 
Little giant set for finale 
By Matt Huffman serve is the weakest point in the way I Sports Wnter play." 
At 5'5" and 105 lbs., Patsy Coash may This weekend is the state champion­not appear to be asintimidating as a 6-4, ship in Anderson, Ind., and Coash has 227 lb. Dean Masztak or a 6-9, 220 been training 15-20 hours a week to !b.Orlando Woolridge, but her play can prepare for her final appearance for the only be described as dominating. Belles. Patsy will be transferring to the 
Last year the sophomore tennis University of Southern Florida in phenomenon from St. Mary's captured December. the Indiana state championship on her ''I'm really psyched up for this way to a third place finish in the nation in tournament. I guess your last per­the NCAA's Division III. This year formance anywhere, you want to do Coash has an overall record of 14-1, well. But this seems extra special for 
me." Iincluding a 6-0 mark in duals. 

"It really has been a tough year "I hope to win, though I'm not as despite what the record shows.I've had confident as I was last year.l'm not really tendonitis in my wrist and I'm just at the top of my game, and most of my 
gettin~ over it. I haven't really played tougher opponents seem to be playing that well, I guess I've just been really well right now." Sandy Gyorgi of lucky,"says Coash. Some luck. Depaw is a top challenger to Coash's 
Coash hails from Kalamazoo, title. Michigan's Msgr. John Hackett High "I've always been competitive. I don't School. Her prep record includes four like to lose. Tennis isa good way for me 
trips to the Michigan state champion­to express my competitive sp'irit." ships, and a cumulative record of 72-3. Don't expect to hear Coash' name as a 
"I've been playing tennis since I was finalist at Forest Hills orWimbledon. "I twelve. I used to play just to stay in don't want to be another Chris Evert. I shape, but I've bec9me very com­don't want to put the time and effort petitive. It's provided so many op­into playing because I know that that is portunities to meet people and to go not the kind oflife I would want to !~ad. I places." "It's hard to pin down the best would like to play as long as I can, and· and worst parts of my game sincethey teach some time." may change each time I play. I think that Regardless of whether any of us ever I move well, and quickrtess is very hear of Patsy Coashagain or not, one important. I like to play a tough game thing is certain: St. Mary's will be losing from the baseline and I like to think that it's best tennis player, and the Notre I'm a good strategist on the court. Dame sports world,one ofits greatest Unless I'm hitting the ball really well, my champions. 
Thursday, October 16, 1980 -page 13 
Belles ringing anew; head for state tourney 
boasts a 5-0 slate this season in dual play, 
by Kelly Sullivan 

and is the Indiana favorite to repeat as 
Women's Sport-s Editor 

first singles champ. 
Ginger Oakman will lead her tenrus Oakman places a great deal of im­
team into the Division IIIstate tourna­portance on the play ofher two Maureen 
ment Saturday morning with a difficult O'Briens, the team's senior leaders. 
chore on hand.Her club must erase from Maureen "Blond Mo" O'Brien plays 
their minds the frustrations of this past number four singles, while Maureen 
season if they hope to make a successful "Brown Mo" O'Brien competes in the 
bid for first place in theAnderson, Ind. fifth slot. 

event. The Saint Mary's squad sports "If we can count on the two Mo's to 
amisleading 2-3 ledger in dual match win their singles flights we'll be in good 
competition, butOakman professesthat shape," explains their coach. "Their 
the record does not tell the full story. matches have been extremely close all 
"Things just have not gone our way," year, and the concentration in practice 
Oakmen explains. "We've been on the thisweek has been ~ood." 
brink of victory in so many matches .. ~" A strong suit for ·st. Mary's has been 
she shrugs. "Our record is just not the consistent play of its three doubles 
indicative of our talent." teams. The tandems have been in­
The hard luck that has befallen the strumental in ...posting the Belles 
Belles this season can be traced to a victories over Valparaiso and Butler, 
depleted line-up. Last year's number and made impressive showings inthe 
two singles player, Maureen Fitzgerald, two tennis tournaments at Notre Dame. 
is studying abroad this year. And Karen The Belles finished fourth in both the 
Smith, who played at third singles, was Irish Invitational and the ND-SMC 
forced to give upcompetition this fall tournament. 

due to a conflict with classes. Coash, who teamed with Fitzgerald 
Injuries have played havoc with the last year and won the state champion­team roster as well, with Oakman ship, is paired with "Blond Mo" O'Brien constantly having to shuffle her line-up for first doubles. The two will face a stiff from match to match.The biggest challenge from Depaw's duo, Sandy and problem for the Belles has been the Nancy Gyorgi. The sisters won the state injury sustained by number three player high school doubles title two years ago Carmel Maenza, who has suffered from at South Bend Adams. strained knee cartilage all year. Ann Huber and Mary Sorge! are at 
Despite these obstacles, St. Mary's has second doubles, while "Brown Mo" fielded a sound team that has reckoned O'Brien andJan Dvonch play the third with Division I and II powers all season, position. and Oakman is a long way from Oakman knows what she must do in throwing in the towel. order contend for the division title. "We 
"We can really take state," she says. have to beat Depaw-they are the 
"The team is ready, they've been team," she says of the defending state practicing very hard this week, and the champions. "They have a lot of depth girls are tremendously psyched up." and they're strong at everyposition." 
St. Mary's' best hopes of a chamion­The Tigers handed St. Mary's a 7-1loss ship are built around number one earlier this season.But scores and singles sensation Patsy Coash. The records canbe tossed aside this weekend phenomenon from nearby Kalamazoo, in Anderson, Ind. when the Belles Mich.captured the state crown last contingent steps on the court, ready to season, and went on to nab a regional cross thethreshold ofvictory that has for title and finish third in the nation. Coash the most part eluded them this fall. 
Indiana AlAW Division III State Tournament Anderson, IN 
. --~ 

St. Mary's line-up 
PLAYER SINGLES DOUBLES
9:00a.m. 
4-1

Patsy Coash 5-0
Saturday 

0-1 and Carmel Maenza 1-0 0-0 Maureen A. 0 'Brien 1-4 4-1 
Jan Dvonch 1-4 
Sunday 
2-0 

October 18th Ann Huber 3-2 3-1 Mary &lrgel 0-0 3-1 Maureen 0 'Brien 1-4 
and 19th Saint Mary's tennis team will be counting on their captain, Maureen ''Brown Mo '' 0 'Bn.en in tournament action this weekend. O'Bn.en isrfifth singles and second doubles !player for the Belle~ 


The Observer -Sports Thursday, October16, 1980 -page 14 
Irish dump Belles ; airn for state 
by Dave Wilson were up for the game. I think we 
Sports Wrti'er were ready for them, though." 
Notre Dame's strong defense 

The Fighting Irish Field held off many scoring attempts hockey squad defeated St. Mary's by St. Mary's late in the game, to College last Friday, by a score of preserve the one-goal victory. 1-0. Notre Dame continued its An injury to Irish sweeper domination of the rivalry with Jeanne Grasso in tht game left neighboring St. Mary's, ~s the the team without her services in record versus the Belles was Monday's game against boosted to 6-2. Valparaiso, which the Crusaders 
Irish Head Coach Jan Galen won 3-2. Sophomore Donna was impressed with the play of Skokowski helped out in that both teams. "They put up a one, scoring a goal and keeping tough fight," said Notre Dame's Notre Dame even throughout rookie coach, "and I know they the first half. Valparaiso scored 
r·························..··············••n••·································•n••········································
I
N.D.S.U. Presents: 
i 
I : 

Plan AHEAD -bring a costume back from break. Costumes will be judged, and prizes will be awarded. 
..........................................................................................................................._,,:. 

The New Jersey Oub 
welcomes all its members to a 
''Get-together'' on Thurs., Oct. 16 
8pm 
Flanner Commoner 
Please bring N .J.licensefor id~tificatiqn 
MATH-SCIENCE 

Ask a Peace Corps volunteer why she tearhe~ inath and general science to high school students in Liberia, We.st Mrica... Ask another volunteer why he teaches biology and physics in the Pacific Islands. They'll probably say they want to help people, want to use their skills, travel, learn a new language or experience another culture. Ask them: 
Register now at Placement Office for Interviews Wed. & Thurs Oct.29-30 



Ruggers to head East for break 
early in the second halfhowever, • 

and hung on to take the victory. 
Had Notre Dame won that game, the Irish would have clinched a first-round bye in the state tourney next month. The loss moved the overall Irish record to 8-5 for the year. 
The Irish take on Marion tomorrow on Cartier Field, in their last home game of the season. 
"Marion will be another big challenge," said Galen, "but we've had the time this week for three strong practices, so we're looking at a good, even game." 
Notre Dame plays the last six regular-season games on the road, including a match against St. Louis, who is currently ranked seventh in the nation. 


The Irish women's field hockey team will take on Marion tomorrow on Cartier Field. 
kY Armand Kornfeld Sports Writer 

The Irish Rugby Club has reached the midpoint of its fall season, and carries a 2-2 record East with it over October break. Notre Dame will face the Long Island Rugby Club and Boston College next week in an attempt to improve on an already en­c0uraging season. 
The club was airled a gr~at deal in recent weeks by an honest-to­God Irishman. The coach of a club in Ireland took time out to work with the Notre Dame club, and Coach Rich Harper has noticed great improvement since the unexpected help. 
"We have improved tre­mendouslv thanks to his help, and I look for even more pro­gress through the remaining games," says Harper. 
The Irish "A" team dropped a 
16-6 decision to Marquette last 
weekend, while the "B" and "C" 
squads tied 0-0 in their respective 
games which were called due to 
darkness. Dan Pearl and Brian 
MacManus handled the scoring 
chores for the "A" team in the 
game played following the Notre 
Dame-Miami football game. 
Harper noted the effect of playing after the football contest as opposed to before the game, as is the usual custom. "A lot of guys were just worn out after the football game, and we had a tough time getting up for our game. But I don't want to take 
[continued from page 16] 
categories. Individual honors 

will be decided in the same 
manner. 
The individual champion from 
this fall's Notre Dame Invitation­

al, Indiana's Jim Spivey, will be 
returning to South Bend for the 

first time since he won that title 
two weeks ago. Spivey lead his 
squad to a second place finish in 
the Invitational. 
Other runners to be reckoned 

with, according to Piane, are 
Kevin Higgin of Indiana and 
Kevin Shuey and Tom 
Bogenschutz of Purdue. 
The Irish squad again will be 
led·by senior co-captains Chuck 
Aragon and John Filosa. Junior 
Tony Hatherly, sophomore Carl 
---------------·-----------------------~
ANYTHING GROWS 
N. IRONWOOD 
atFLORIST -campus delivery TOll ROAD House Plants Gifts, Corsages DIRECTlY 
HOUSE PLANTS GIFTS, TELEFLORIST 
WIRE FLOWERS 
272-8820 
EAST of CAMPUS 1I 4mi. N. of Douglas 
10% DISCOUNT PRESENT THIS COUPON NO -SMC 1 0/80 

~--------------------------------------~ 



Chips  Gums  
Candy  Meat Sticks  
Pastries  Peanuts  

Available at your Hall's food sales 

anything away from Marquette; they were psyched and played well." 
Notre Dame will entertain the Southside Irish of Chicago on November 8, and will close out the season November 15 at Alabama. 
. Harriers 
Bicicchi and three freshmen­
Ralph Caron, Andy Dillon, and Tim Novak-fill out the top seven. 
"We're healthy now, as far as our top seven are concerned," says Piane. "I think we're in good shape, too. But of course if we don't run well in the meets, it doesn't make that much dif­ference. I just think we need to start running with a little pride." 
In addition to the Big State meet this weekend, the Irish also will see action at the Central Collegiate Conference Championships on October 25. The meet, scheduled for the Burke Memorial Golf Course at 11 a.m., will feature such cross-1 country powerhouses as Penn State, Pittsburgh, and Notre Dame Invitational champion Michigan. 
-:~~~ 
; •· 
. 
~1Buy 
' 
Observer 
Oassifieds 




TheObserver-~rts 
Thursday, October 16, 1980 -~e \' 
-
Sports Briefs. _ __, 
The Sail~ng Club finished third overall last weekend at the M1am1 Co-ed Regatta. Jerry Daus finished fourth in the men's division for the Irish in the seven-man field, while Mimi Torterilli raced to second place in the women's division. Jane Brown, Carol Silva, Marquerita Cintra and Jean Heaaly will race in an all-woman regatta at Ohio Wesleyan this weekend. 
Season hockey ticketSmaybepickedup at the second floor ticket window in the ACC between 9 a.m. and 4 p.m. either today or tomorrow. Students who have notyet purchased season tickets may wish to do so at these times. 
Th~ novice ~oxing finalswmbeheld tomght m the ACC boxmg room beginning at 8 p.m. These novice boxers, who are preparing for this spring's Bengal Bout competition, advanced to tonight's finals with first-round victories on Monday night There are nine bouts scheduled for tonight in as many weight classes. A small admission fee will be charged and forwarded to to the Holy Cross missions in Bengladesh. 
The pep rally for the Notre Dame-Army football game has been canceled, Jim Magers, chairman of the pep rally committee, announced yesterday. The beginning of October break was cited as the reason for the decision. 
(continued from page 16) 
In the backcourt, senior Tracy Jackson and sophomore John Paxson will be faced with the task of replacing Bill Hanzlik and Rich Branning, the only losses from last year's starting five. Paxson will be the quarterback, the guard that runs the offense-which does not mean, however, his role will be limited just to watching Digger and shouting little numbers that I've never been able to understand. Paxson can shoot and, in fact, will have to shoot, if there is to be any balance in the Irish backcourt 
Because we all know Tracy Jackson can shoot­and will shoot-and will have to shoot, because no team wins ballgames if it doesn't score points. Senior Stan Wilcox will contribute as will sophomore Mike Mitchell-if, that is, the orthoscopic examination Mitchell will undergo today on his left knee does not indicate damage that -would sideline the sharpshooter for any length of time. 
Two other freshmen, Tom Sluby and Barry Spencer, will be listed as swingmen-a fancy term which means they can play forward or guard. Walk-ons Kevin Hawkins and Marc Kelly will be available to provide depth in practice. 
Ok, how about a key to the season? 
How about Kelly Tripucka? 
A clever sportswriter (No, it wasn't Craig Chval) once told me that the difference between a good team and a great team is "the cream." 
"For a good team to win a championship," he advised me, "the cream has to rise to the top. Just like a pitcher of sweet milk." 
A quick comparison between Tripucka's statistics and Notre Dame's performance gives good indication that the addage: "As Tripucka goes, so goes the Irish," may have some credence in 1980-81. 
Last season, Tripucka averaged 21.8 points over the last 14 games in which he played. The Irish won 11 of them, losing only to North Carolina State, 
• • . Tripticka 
MarquettS! and Missouri. Because of an injury, he missed four games-Maryland, LaSalle, Davidson and Navy. The team struggled with the Terripins, lost to the Explorers and slept through the last two just like the fans (the ones, that is, that bothered to show up). 
In those 14 games, Tripucka shot 61 percent from the field. He scored 29 points against South Carolina and, in what was probably one of the finest performances ever by a Notre Dame player, he tallied 28 against undefeated DePaul in a game the Irish won in double overtime. Tripucka should have won the most valuable player award in that game, however the Chicago-area media people couldn't see past Mark Aguirre and they voted in a bloc that insured the DePaul sophomore's victory. Nevertheless, it seems safe to say that when Tripucka is on Notre Dame has almost unlimited potential. 
However, Tripucka, in spite of the evidence, maintains that only a team effort will give the Irish the national cage championship that has eluded them so many times in recent years. 
"We have to play good, solid team defense and dominate the boards," he says. "We have to have a positive attitude of confidence and belief in ourselves and one another as a team. That's the only way we can win a national championship." 
And Tripucka is quick to point out that winning a national championship is the goal ofevery player on the team. 
"A lot of luck is involved and we have to be prepared to deal with whatever circumstances come up," he explains. "Injuries, momentum, a tough schedule... Looking at the whole thing realistically you can see that it won't be easy. 
"But we're ready. If we don't do it this year it ;nay be a while before Notre Dame has the experience and talent to challenge again. The seniors-Tracy, Gilbert, Orlando, Stan and I­
know this is our last year. 

"We're not gonna waste it." 
All classified ads must be received by 5:00 p.m. , two dars prior 
to the Issue in which the ad Is run. The Observer office wll accept 
classlfieds Monday through Friday, 10:00 a.m. to 5;00 p.m. All 
classlfieds must be pre·paid. either In person or through the mall.
Classifieds 
NOTICES 
OVERSEAS JOBS: Summer/year round Europe, S. Amer., Australia, Asia. Allllelds $500-$1200 monlhly. Expenses paid. Slghlseelng. Free lnlo. Write: IJC, Box 52-IN 4, Corona Del Mar, CA. 92625. 
I AM IN DillE NEED OF A RIDE TO ARIZONA FOR THE SEMESTER BREAK PLEASE HELP JOHN 277·5042 
Used and Oul-oi-Prlnl books boughl. sold, searched. ERASMUS BOOKS, 1027 E. Wayne, 232-a444. 12-6 p.m., closed Mondays. 
BASEBALL CARD SHOW, NOV. 1, QUALITY INN, DOWNTOWN SO. BEND, 9 A.M. TO 4 P.M. FOOTBALL, BSKBALL CARDS. N.D. PROGRAMS, SPORT MAGAZINES,ETC. BUY, SELL. TRADE. INFO. 255-1738. 
TICKETS! IICKETSI TICKETS! 1need many llckelsl Sludenls and GA'slor Army. Call John al8553. 
ST. LOUIS FOR BREAK? Drivers and riders call34791or possible arrang&­menls. Sponsored by S.L Club. 
THE NEW JERSEY CLUB ISHAVINGA SEND-OFF PARTY FOR ITS MEMBERSIII IT WILL BE HELD ON THURSDAY NIGHT OCTOBER 16 BEGINNING AT 8 PM IN THE FLANNEl! HALL COMMONER. SO COME ON All YOU NEW JERSEYIANS, START YOUR OCTOBER BREAK IN STYLE 
$1. LOUIS CLUB • Mandatory meet­Ing, Wed. Oct. 22 9:30 p.m. at Bogoria on the Riverfront. Refresh· menta available. 
LOST/FOUND 
LOST: A blue sweat jacket In Room 201 In Bualneu Building on Oct. 6. II round, please call Mike • 1615. Thank you. 
Lost: lllue windbreaker In EE lab an Monday. II round, plea.. call 
6840. 
For Rent 
2 room apt. $50 mo. Near. 233-1329. 
FOR RENT: Ugly Duckling Rent-A-Car. Priced lrom $7.95 a day and seven cents a mile. Phone 255-2323 lor reservallons. 
APT. FOR RENT: BEDROOM-LIVING ROOM, KITCHEN, BATHROOM & UTILITIES.Call Kevin 1139 or Mr. Joers 234-3387 
WANTED 
NEED RIDE FROM CLEVELAND AREA TO NOTRE DAME AFTER OCTOBER BREAK. SHARE EXPENSES. CALL PAT 
8606. 

NEED RIDERS TO K.C., MO., FOR BREAK CALL RICK 1932 
helpl Need a ride lo NYC area. Call Chrla al 7a38. 
Need a ride to BUFFALO lor break aller a lest on Friday. Call Rich at 1739 or 1737 
RIDERS NEEDED TO MILWAUKEE FOR BREAK. CALL PAUL a916 
need a on&-way ride BACK TO 
N.D. FROM LONG ISLANC alter break. (10/25, 10/26). Bob 3113 
Need One Rider to North FLORIDA, (sun, sur!, while sands). Share expenses. Call John 843 7: 
Needed: Plane riders to Denver leaving on Thursday. Call Julie at 4947. 
Ride needed to Detroit area (Troy) lorOclober break. Calllom 8478 or a504. 
WANTED: All NEW JERSEYIANS TO START THEIR BREAK IN STYLE. COME TO A NEW JERSEY CLUB IIASH ON OCTOBER 16 BEGINNING AT8 P.M IN THE FLANNEl! HALL COMMONER. COME ON OUT TO PARTY WITH YOUR FRIENDS FROM N.J. 
Desperately need a ride to Philadelphia. Can leave any time before Friday night. Please call Mike Immediately at 1601. I'll do anything. 
Needed: ride back !rom Muncie, IN on Sunday Ocl, 26th. Please call Lee Anne at277-7554. 
I will trade all THREE ol my slslers lor a ride back!rom Pittsburgh alter loll break. I'll also share expenses, etc: II you can help, call Tim al 8706. 
TICKETS 

Need six G.A. tlx. lor A,rmy logelher. Call Mike 8760. 
Wanted ONE ArmyGA or sludenlllc. Mark 288-0734 alter 11:00 
NEED 3 G.A. TICKETS FOR ARMY GAME CALL RAY 272-9978 
NEEDED TIX FOR ARIZONA GAME CALL JIM • 8700 
HELP DESPERATELY IN NEED OF ARMY TIX TOM -1631 
Need two consecutive GA's lor Army game John 1612 
BRUCE needs llckela, students and GA's. Do God a favor. Call John at a553 
NEED TWO ARMY GA'S FOR MAD CITY FRIENDS. CALL JEFF 232-0982. 
----------~----­

In desperale need ol two GA or Sludenlllckela to ARMY GAMEl Call Mary Anne (SMC) 4027. 
need army llx call Tom al232-2427 

H81PI-Ineed 1 Or 2 GA or student llckets lor Army. Call 8914. 
I need a pair or GA's lor Army. Call 3245. 
ARE YOU SICK OF THE .CAFETERIA FOOD? I will cook you a hom• cooked ITALIAN DINNER II you can provide me with two GA's lor the ARMY game. Call4581 and ask lor Teresa S. 
HELPIII Need 2 OR 4 G.A.tln a great aectlan...rlch alum wants ARMY... ARMY...ARMY...Hckelt. Call IIOB al 
1506 
Need 2 ARMY GA's. Call John, 1773 
For sole: 2 Army GA's -best oller by thursday. Call 6276. 
Need 1 ticket to Army gome. Call Jenny· 7193. 
PLEASE: Need 12 ARMY TICKETS lor lutheran Boy's Group. Will pay reasonable requesls. ph. 7443 
NEED 2 ARMY GA'SI JOHN 1a50 $$$$$ 
Need 5 GA Army lor alumnllrlends. Good $. (3479) 
WILL PAY PRACTICALLY ANYTHING FOR 2·4 GA'S FOR ARMY GAME • CALL GREG 8433 
Helpless female will give almost ANYTHING lor a student tic to Army game!l Call Diane at 78951 
MY ROOMATE NEEDS 2 TICKETS TO AIR FORCE AND MADE ME COME UP HERE AND TYPE THIS IN. EITHER GAOl! STUDENT WILL DO. 
BUCKS FOR TWO ARMY GAs. call RICK 
TICKETS! TICKETS! TICKETS! I need sludenlllckels lor ARMY. Call Paul al6111. 
MY ROOMMATE'S NUMBER, BY THE WAY, IS 4449. ASK FOR PAM. 
PERSONALS 
BE ABELIEVER IN MIDWEST ROCK 'N' ROLL.. LISTEN TO THE MICHAEL STANLEY BAND In concert Thurs Ocl 30 alB pm In SMC O'laughlln Aud. Reserved aeatlng fi:ket soles al SIVIC Ticket OHice & ND/SMC Dining Halls. Price: $6 NOW, Increased to $7 AFTER BREAK. 
expenses. Leave any time alter Thursday. Call Mike at 3488. 
THE NEW JERSEY CLUB IS HAVING A BASH FOR ITS MEMBERSIII IT WILL BE HELD ON THURSDAY NIGHT OCTOBER 16 BEGINNING AT a P.M. IN THE FLANNER HALL COMMONER. COME ON OUT AND PARTY WITH YOUR FRIENDS FROM N.J. START YOUR OCTOBER BREAK IN STYIFI 
---~--------­
NEED I!IDtbackloND alter breaklor two !rom ST. LOUIS area. Will drive, pay lor gas, etc. Call Mike al6765. 
Good Luck Mlkeyl Penny lane Forever! Love Kim my, K.C., Pal-City 
Dear Shawn, I consider lhe past 4 years jusl a beginning. love !rom the land ol sunshine, UCI and me. laura. 
ANN ANOREXIA. Have one hugl-do ora lime atC. U. Youlooklanlastlcl Fast Food Frenzy on Monday. KATHY 
COLLEGE REPUBLICANS: IF YOU MISSED IT LAST TIME, HERE IT IS AGAIN-FINAL IMPORTANT MEETING TUESDAY, OCTOBER2aAT 
6:30 PM. THE IMPORTAN<:;E OF THIS MEETING CANNOT BE OVERSTRESSEO!I AlTENDANCE IS CRUCIAL!I 
Lillie Goose You're the greatesH An admirer 
TIJTORS NEEDED: 1. High school student In Economics. 2. High school Sophomore In Geometry. 3. 17 yr. old boy, general tutoring. 4. 21 yr. old In Physics and Advanced Algebra. Contact Volunleer Ser­vices. 7308. 
House plants, moaqultos. and surtlng magazines. Whal do these have In common? Sue "lollplaza" Kelleher knows. RVB gossip. 
What a scandallll Patty Reider and leslie Mulligan never gel calla lrom boys, lor no real reason. Men you can rectify this heinous alluallon, call them at 1283, day or night. 
--·­Desperately In need ol ride to Philadelphia. Can leave any time before Friday night. Call Mike Immediately al 1601. I'll do anything. 
Desparately need a ride lor 2 to Bloomington orMuncie, IN area lor this Saturday. Call 
Need ride to lluHalo, NY lor break. Please call 277-3575 and ask lor Drew. can leave Thursday alter 5 
p.m. 
OOOOH, those HIGH PLAINS DRIFTE~SI See them tonight at the Nazz 9:00 
ZIGGY CZAROBSKI FOR ATHLETIC DIRECTOR 
~----~--------~~--­
STEVE SCHMITZ 
STEVE SCHMITZ 
STEVE SCHMITZ 

Honeyesl Honeybunny, You're wondertulll 
HEY All YOU NEW JERSEYIAN5­COME TO AN OCTOBER BREAK SEND­OFF PARTY SPONSORED BY THE NEW JERSEY CLUB. IT WILL BE ON THURSDAY NIGHT OCTOBER 16 BEGINNIN& AT a 
P.M. IN THE FLANNEl! HALL COMMONER. COME ON OUT AND START YOUR OCTOBE~REAK IN STYLE 
12 wild 'n crazy women stranded at ND lor X-tra nile at break · need heavy party action Sal. nile alter Army game. Know where the action will be on Oct. 1a1 Call Diane at 78951 
DENISE DOYLE: YOU ARE LOOKING GOOD JUST LIKE A SNAKE IN THE GRASS FROM YOU KNOW WHO 
To my Polish Dutchman Thank you lor your Iron! door service, all your knowledge or N.Korea, stimulating assignments, pointing out where the library bores all and my llrsl personal. I always did like people with freckles. The new kid on the block P.S. May I be In your llrsl movie? 
MOLARITY -on the road to selling out. Coming soon. 
Thanks to all that helped out when I was sick. Beth 
To all the lovely ladles ol the ND· SMC (and U. or M.) community who helped ua "screw" our roommates. You can bungle In our jungle anytime. "The Jungle" Section 1 c • 
td Morrissey 
HAIL TO THE CHIEF OF PANGBORN; We know you are only here lor your Mil degreel love, T&M 
To Mary Anne Daher and Beth Tighe A Birthday wish wrlllen just lor youl May you both lind a man who's handsome and true, And never Iorge! Carlo Roul a. Carole King In those deprenlng 
·Hmea at 2:00 (am) Through Illegal happy houra, lie parties guitar lessons and brew We all have managed to becomea Y&ry Motley Crewll 
Happy Birthday you 1wa1 Ruth, Ang and Comeau 


• 
Thursday, October 16, 1980 -page 16
orts 
Philly fans 

Sotne people are never satisfied 
It seemed, at first, that this was to be a World Series without a good guy or a bad guy. 
Craig
Than.....s largely to Dan Quisenberry and George Brett, we no longer had theNew.York Yankees to hate. Of course, that also meant the Yankee fans 

Chval 
on campus didn't get to sneer at everybody else after "The Team That George Bought" won again after all. 

And thanks largely to their own penchant for also showed their unabridged stupidity, pinned playing like the Toledo Mud Hens at the worst proudly on their chests. You would think that after possible moment, we no longer had the underdog watching the Phillies claw back from a 2-1 deficit Houston Astros to love. against Houston by taking the final two games of 
But whoever said that the city of Philadelphia that series in come-from-behind fashion, the was good for nothing will have to take it back. Just Phildelphia fans would have just a little patience. when it appeared that we'd have to endure a After all, here it was only the third inning of the villain-less World Series, the City of Brotherly first game of a best-of-seven series. And the Phils Love came through in the clutch and united sports had their ace, Steve Carlton, primed to go in Game fans everywhere. Two. I guess the die-hard Phillie fans must have 
Against the Phillies. turned off their televisions in disgust when the 
You would think that the population of Phillies fell behind in Houston. Philadelphia, which hadn't seen the Phillies in a All of this is nothing new in Philadelphia, World Series since 1950, and hadn't tasted victory though. These are the same people who booed in a single World Series game since every team former manager Danny Ozark every time he set wore uniforms like the Chicago White Sox, would foot on the artificial turfofVeterans' Stadium. All 
Steve Berry (24] and his Irish teammates improved their 
be thrilled at the prospect ofcheering their hearts he did was take the perennially-hapless Phils to
season record to an impressive 13-4 yesterday afternoon 
out for the Phillies. three-straight Eastern Division crowns.
with an exciting come-from-behind, 2-1 victory ove_r v(siting 
Wrong again, astroturf breath. But, hey, what have you done for us lately?
Bowling Green. Sophomore jay Schwartz and JUntor Ed 
0 'Malley scored the Notre Dame goals. In one of the most classless, tasteless and And for Phil1ie fans, lately isn't last season, or obnoxious scenes in sports history, the fans of even last week. Lately is the last time at bat. Philadelphia booed their Phillies when they fell The fans of Philadelphia, and I use the term behind the Kansas City Royals 4-0 in the third loosely, don't deserve a winner. They should have 
inning of Game One Tuesday night. taken a page from the Houston Astro fans, who Of course, the Phillies embarrassed the fans by spurred their undermanned team on again and in the meet, all from Indiana. storming back to win the game 7-6, but by then, all again, and then gave their team a rousing ovation 
"Actually the meet should be was forgiven and forgotten, and the front-running when· they finally lost the Championship Series. called the Big State-Little State," Phillie fans were all on their feet, screaming in To steal a line from Johnny Carson-May a The Notre Dame cross coun­notes Piane. "The four teams ecstasy. herd of Chicago Cubs come and roost in your 
try squad will enter its third that we will be competing against Not only did the fans of Philadelphia prove baseball stadium. 
competitive meet tomorrow un­are Indiana, Indiana State, themselves to be the scum of the earth, but they That's all you deserve. 
proven, but wielding powerful Purdue, and Ball State. Tra­potential. ditionally the meet has come ''As an honest assessment, I down to a dual between us and would say that we haven't run as Indiana. This year, though, well as we should," says Head Purdue and Indiana State should 
Harriers host Big State 
Phillies do it again
CoachJoe Piane. "I think that we challenge us." 
have trained hard and prepared There will only be one race, 
well, but we simply haven't but scoring will be different PHILADELPHIA (AP) night's second ga,ne of the This time McBride settled for aproduced in competition." according to size and NCAA Mide Schmidt blasted his 1980 World Series. single, which delivered Unser 
The Big State Meet will pro­qualification. First there is the 
way out of a postseason slump The 'lictory gave the Phillies with the tying run. Ville the Irish with an oppor­overall champion, usually one of with a tremendous eighth­2-0 lead in this of best-of-seven Kansas City had Philadel­tunity to break out of their early­the five larger schools. From inning double, scoring Bake showdown for baseball's world phia starter Steve Carlton in seae>on slump. The meet is to be there, champions will be decided Me Bride with the go-ahead chmpionship, which moves to constant trouble but the Phil­
n.n on the Burke Memorial Golf in Division II and Division III run as Philadelphia, again us­Kansas City for Game 3 tomor­lies fielders bailed him out with Course tomorrow afternoon at4. ing late-inning lightning with a row night. the double plays. Some 22 schools will enter teams [continued on page 14] four-run eighth, defeated the Philadelphia was trailing 4-2 Shortstop Larry Bowa, who 
Kansas City Royals 6-4 in last as the eighth inning began and tied another record by starting the Royals had their bullpen three of them, also contributed ace, Dan Quisenberry, on the an RBI single as the PhilJies
Tripucka key 

mound, trying to nail down the jumped to a 2-0 lead agamst victory. But the Philles, who Kansas City starter Larry Gura came from behind for each of in the fifth inning.
Basketball 's starting already I I I 

and one manager (God help him) basketball regular season. After that, it
Without boring you (or, at least not too much) ed a World Series no-hitter at ~·-··ason starts today. with the details, lets briefly preview the 1980-81 all came apart quite quickly for Larsen's perfect game came 24Yet, if you happen to saunter past the main Fighting Irish. the Royals. 
years ago on Oct. 8, 1956,: ena in the ACC, you probably won't see too Del Unser batted for Lonnie
Up front, Tripucka returns along with classmate against the Brooklyn Dodgers. 
n.uch that looks like basketball at this point. Smith and lashed a vicious
and fellow tri-captain, Orlando Woolridge. It is a It may of been premature to! ,igger uses these first few days to get his players double up the alley in left-cen­
double homecoming for Woolridge who will once think of a no-hmer at that 
:.·Ito shape. Lots ofrunning, drills, more running, a ter field. Boon, running on a
again occupy the power forward spot after a year point, but some in the crowd 
f. 'V drills, then some running... banged-up leg, circled the
playing in the middle. Senior Gilbert Salinas, must have been. When More­
bases to score a run that pulledBoring. 

sophomore Bill Varner and freshman Cecil land drilled a ground ball to
Philadelphia to within one run.
Very boring. But necessary. 

Rucker round out the front-line contingent. deep short and barely legged it
By now the stadium wasVery necessary. 

In the midcUe, two youngsters will battle for out for a single, the scoreboard
bedlam as the fans that had sat

"This is where we start," Digger points out. squatters rights. Sophomore Tim Andree and celebrated with a reassuring,
back rather calmly in the early

"Once we get back into the swing of things­"Never In Doubt."
rookie Joe· Kleine should have the pivot position innings realized another lateprobably after fall break-we can get started on pretty well nailed down between them. However, With the no-hit tension bro­
Phillies rally was in the mak­

strategy." ken, Garry Maddox ripped a
Andree will be unable to practice for the next ing. And they were right.
Strategy. Therein lies the one question I have double into the left field cor­
month because oftorn ligaments in his left ankle. 
Pete Rose got Unser over to

about this basketball team. What strategy will "What we'll probably do is use both Timmy and third on a ground ball to ner, sending Moreland to Digger employ to most effectively use the third. Trillo's long fly allowedd 
Joe in the middle," Digger forecasted last summer first--a play right out of base­
abundance of blue and gold-clad talent that will Moreland to score. Maddox
when he had a little time to think about the ball's textbook which says you occupy the home team bench at the ACC? 
took third on the play and came
situation. "Both are super players and both are must move the runner to third 
home a moment later on Bo­And of cour~e, without question, the talent is 
going to help us." in that situation. That brought 
wa's base hit.

there. (Ifyou're starting to yawn, please bear with me. This is up McBride, hero o~ the Tues­The rally staked Carlton to a"Talent-wise w.e're as good as any team in the 
the kind ofjunk you've got to put in a preseason article.) day night's 7-6 O_(>emng vtctory 
2-0 lead but the royals sliced it in half in the next inning.
country," emphasizes Kelly Tripucka. "We've got by the Phillies wtth three hits, 
experience, great depth and basically just a lot of including a three-run homer.
[continued on page 15]

guys who know how to play the game." 
fn mv four-plus years at Notre Dame, I have ie..rned to gauge the passage of time, not by the Plendar, but by which team is practicing where for vhat season. 
And basketball season starts today. True, the fil -;t game will not be played until November 20, '-ut for 15 players, four coaches, three statisticians 
their three victories in the 

Gura had been perfect
five-game National League 

through the first four, retiring

Championship Series against 

12 consecutive batters. When
Houston, did it again amid the 

Schmidt opened the fifth with 
roar of 65, 775 fans filling 

an easy grounder for Gura's
Veterans Stadium.
Frank 

13th consecutive out, the Kan­
Bob Boone opened the eithth 

sas City southpaw was halfway
by coaxing a walk from Quisen­

to Series history. Only one
LaGrotta 
berry, the sub..1aring specialist 

pitcher--Don Larsen ofthe New
who saved 33 games during the 

York Yankees--has ever pitch­






