
, , , Observer Oscars -Page 2 

VOL. XIV, NO. 169 
Red Cross visits US hostages 
(AP) -The American hostages in the U.S. Embassy in Tehran received a seven-hour visit yesterday from two representa­tives_ of the International Red Cross in an apparent move by Iran to blunt for Western support in imposing sanctions. "To me they appeared in rather good shape,'' Harald Schmid de Gruneck, one of the Red Cross officials who visited the hostages, told the Associat­ed Press Radio Network in a telephone interview. "You can imagine those people have been there under rather difficult psychological conditions and they did appear in good shape. 
"Of course there are some people, this is just human, who support less than others those conditions, but still I want to emphasize there is no very grave problem. 
"We were able to take the names of those hostages, to take the address of their familiy in the States, and their tele­phone nu;nber and on top of this -and I do believe this is most important to reassure the families in the states -we were able to get fr?m each hostage a 
[continued on page 2] 

Hollywood's demise c~ntrasts. • • 
HOLLYWOOD (AP) -At Hollywood and Vine, the famed intersection of the world's "movie capital," a strolling tourist today is more likely to bump into a teen-age prostitute than a movie star. 
Hollywood police seized 50 
male prostitutes in one night's 
sweep last month. Over 4,000 
vice arrests were made in 1979. 
"It's just gotten beyond us, 
says Los Angeles Police Depart­
ment Capt. Jerry Feinberg, 
who heads the Hollywood police 
division. 
Even the most unabashed 
Hollywood-booster will admit 
the town has big problems. 
"It's time to blend the myth 
and the reality," says Chamber 
of Commerce Executive 
Director Mike Sims. ''Tourists 
come here to see the myth an 
when they see Hollywood 
Boulevard they're disap­
pointed.'' 
Only one major studio, Para­
mount Pictures, remains in 
Hollywood. The rest moved out 
long ago. 

Even tonight's Academy 1 
Awards bash -Hollywood's annual Big Event -is being heldelsewhere, six miles away in 
downtown Los Angeles. 
What's left of the movie 
business in Hollywood are 
small, rundown studios and 
post-production facilities where 
films are edited, dubbed and 
processed. 
It's ironic then, says Sims, 
TUESDAY, APRIL 15, 1980

an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and saint mary's 
This student ponders why the laws ofgravity have gone awry. [Photo by Tim McKeogh]. 
that the Hollywood myth has, been kept alive by the movie and television producers them­selves. "They were creating an image that really wasn't here." 
Nonetheless, Hollywood still packs 'em in, to the tune of 3. 5 million to 4 million persons a year. By Sims' reckoning, Hollywood is second only to Disneyland, 40 miles south, as the top tourist attraction in Southern California. 
But he admits that beyond a cursory look at Hollywood Boulevard, there is little to hold the visitor. 
''They usually drive down Hollywood Boulevard, spend 15 minutes in the Chinese (Theatre) forecourt and then 
head  to  Anaheim  or  Beverly  
Hills.  There's nothing here to  
see.  That's  probably  the  

saddest reaction we get: 'This is Hollywood and Vine?''' 
It's difficult to pinpoint when Hollywood's decline began or what caused it, but most observers agree it came with America's economic and demo­graphic shifts in the 1950s's. 
The wealthy fled west to the open expanses of Beverly Hills and Century City, taking their tax monies and buying-power with them. 
Saturday night movie-going also shifted west -to fashion· able Westwood Village near UCLA where more exclusive film engagements are avail­able. 
Hollywood High which once graduated the likes of Jason Robards and Jean Peters, is now crumbling. Hotels have gone to seed or closed altogeth­er. Hot dog stands and coffee shops now stand where expensive shops once catered to the .-ream of film society. 
llal Biard, a CBS publicist who arrived in 19 52, remembers Hollywood becoming ''very touristy, till the stars didn't want to do their shopping there." 
But even then, Biard adds, '-'It was perfectly safe with no hookers or teen-ageJrostitutes. 
Getting mugge was no problem. You felt very nice walking up to the Pickwick book shop. It wasn't all that glamor­ous, but it wasn't as seedy as it is now." 
A big blow to Hollywood was in 1964 when NBC vacated its huge facility at Sunset and Vine and moved to suburban Bur­bank. NBC and CBS Radio next door had long been the focus of entertainment activity in Holly­wood. The two studios provided a steady flow of the famous for star-oglers who queued up outside the Vine Street Brown Derby. 
"Dinah Shore, Eddie Fisher, Groucho Marx, to name a few " says Biard, would "drop in" 'at the Brown Derby. ' 
On the NBC site_ today stands 
[continued on page 7] 

Vogtopens ISOfestival, talks on West Germany 
byEar/Rix 
Dr. Hannah Vogt, author of ''The Burden of Guilt,'' opened the 1980 International Stu· dents' Organization (ISO) festi­val by expressing both hope and concern for the future of West German democracy last night in Haggar Hall Audito­rium. 
Speaking on, ''The Holocaust and Pre.sent Day German De­mocracy," Vogt compared her fellow citizens of 1933 with the West Germans of today. Ac­cording to Vogt, twentieth cen­tury West Germans have fewer illusions, they don't stick to ideology, they are matter-of­fact people, and they are willing to use the chances that a democratic constitution gives them. 
Vogt paled her optimism, how­ever, by admitting, "our demo­cracy has not yet been put to test. Democracy in West Ger­many was until now a 'blue sky democracy.' Since 1945 we have had a continually increas­ing social product and standard of living. No crises, no big strikes. We had this challenge of terrorism and I must say that people acted rather hysterical­ly, even th•. prime-ministers did with the .::isputable so-called 'Radikalen-Erlass,' the 'Decree Concerning Radicals.''' 

''In Germany if somethig goes wrong we turn not to the left, but to the right, to law and order, and to a strong leader. This is our problem and this is our danger," she added. 
Vogt voiced dismay over--a 1976 study indicating that West German youth had a, "total confusion as to facts, dates and moral standards that was both shameful and terrifying.'' Ac­companying this lack of know­ledge has been a ''Jack of feeling towards the percecuted 

, , , Academy Awards 
HOLLYWOOD (AP) -"Kramer vs. Kramer," the bittersweet story of an emotional child custody battle, won the Academy Award as best picture of 1979 last night. As predicted, the film swept most of the. major awards, including best actor for. Dustin Hoffman, supporung actress for Meryl Streep and best dtrectian and screenplay adaptation. 
Sally Field· was named best actress for her performance· as the reluctant union organizer "Norma Rae." The Oscar for best supporting actor went to Melvyn Douglas the crusty old industrialist m "Being There." ' Robert Benton won honors as both best director and best screenplay adapter for "Kramer." The best original screenplay award went to Steve Tesich for· "Breaking Away." 
"Al~ ThatJazz," Bob Fosse's musical self-portrait of a producer courtmg d1sast~r won Oscars for film editing, art direction, adaptation score, and costume design. 
'_'Apocalypse Now,': Francis Ford Coppola's searing portrayal of V1etnam madness, p1cked up awards for sound and cinematogra­phy. 
The award for best original song went to "It Goes Like It Goes," from "Norma Rae." The song was written by David Shire, the former husband of actress Taha Shire, Coppola's sister. 
The 79-year-old Douglas, who also won the supporting Oscar in 1963 for "Hud," was not present to accept his award. In fragile health although maintaining his acting career, he remained at his New York home. 
in~tead of the persecutors," 
~.a1d Vogt. 
''As to this question of identi­

fication with the victim I do 
hope th_at tbe boradcasting of 
your famnus TV film 'The 
Holocaust' was something like 
a turning point," she said. 
''A lot of people were very 

much confounded and began to remember what they them­selves experienced. For the first time, I would dare to say, a wave ofcompassion came up. It . is quite clear why: the fllm made people identify with the Weiss family and this makes up 
for all the deficiencies in details · 

or the unavoidable fact that the real Auschwitz was immeasura­bly worse than the movie Ausc­witz," Vogt added. 
The movie was not without opposition, however, according to. Vogt." On the radical right­wmg of our political spectrum a new strategy of cover by smoke screen immediately began." she said. 
"For a long time these radi­
[continued on page 7] 



-------~--­
----·-,-------.---------­

News in brief 

Tuesday,April15, 1980-page 2 
IRSbracesfor last minute flood from poortaxpayers 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Midnight is the deadline. for filing 1979 tax returns with the Internal Revenue Service, and the IRS is braced for a flood of last-minute returns. 
A spokesman, Larry Batdorf, said the IRS expects to receive 
6.6 million returns today alone and that additional large quantities are expected on the following two days. All told, the IRS expects ·to receive about 93 million tax returns from individuals, up from 91 million last year. 
The government is counting on receiving a lot ofchecks with the late returns. It received so many refund requests in the earlier returns that it ran temporarily short of cash. 

Weather 

Occasional light rain and snow ending this morning, clearing by afternoon. High in the mid to upper 40s 
.. 

8:45, SYMPOSIUM ON RELIGION AND BUSINESS* by thomas werege of nd and burton Ieiser of drake, C.C.E. AUD. 
I 

9a.m.-4:30p.m., MEASUREMENTS FOR CAPS AND GOWNS, AT THE BOOKSTORE. 
10:30 a.m., SYMPOSIUM ON BUSINESS AND RELIGION, by james schall of georgetown and john c. bennett, C.C.E. AUD. 
12-9 p.m., ONE EARTH MARKETPLACE, LA FORTUNE FIRST FLOOR. 
12:30 p.m., CALCULATOR OLYMPICS* RM. 356 EN­GINEERING BLDG. 
2:30p.m., LECTURE, "germal legal positivism-prelude to the holacaust' ', by hannah vogt, center for human rights reading room . LAW SCHOOL. 
3 p.m., SYMPOSIUM ON BUSINESS AND RELIGION, by michel novak and stanley hauerwas of nd, C.C.E. AUD. 
. 

4p.m., FORUM, "the lord's prayer", by edward m. 
gaffney, 110 LAW BUILDING. 
4:15p.m., BI9 SEMINAR, "what, if anything, is a theory of evolution?", by joel cracraft, GALVIN AUD. 
4:30p.m., Meeting, amnesty international, LA FORTUNE BALLROOM. 
f 

7 p.m., LECTURE, the state of the african revolution, kwame toure (stokely carmichael), NIEWLAND SCIENCE RM. 118. 
7-9 p.m., ART EXHIBIT, prints, paintings and drawings, AT THE ISIS GALLERY, senior arts festival. 
7 p.m., MEETING, obud organizational meeting, LA FORTUNE BALLROOM. 
7:30p.m., LECTURE, "canada-the quebec problem" by 
ines molinaro, allitkowski, barbara abt, RM. 242 O'SHAG. 
7:30p.m., LECTURE, "the right to live-the-right to die", 
by jose espinosa and robert holderby, LIB. AUD. 
; :30 p.m., sociology FILM FESTIVAL, CARROLL HALL AT SAINT MARY'S, free. 
8p.rn., SYMPOSIUM ON BUSINESS AND RELIGION, by james, m. gustafson of the university of chicago, and elmer johnson, senior partner of kirland and ellis of chicago, 
C.C.E. AUD. 

8 p.m., DRAMA, "uncommon women", REGINA HALL* senior arts festival. 
8:15 p.m., EASTER PLAY, pilgrim, SACRED HEART CHURCH. 
10 p.m., MEETING, students united for responsible energy, LA fORTUNE BASEMENT. 
10:30 p.m., MUSIC, bill nielson, rich stevenson and friends, SENIOR BAR, for senior arts festival. 
[continued from page lJ 
message, a Red Cross message, which (will be) sent to his family. 
''They will be sent tomorrow 

· by a doctor delegate who is leaving for Geneva and from there they will be sent to the States, so I guess the families there should receive them in a couple of days and this should reassure them, I am sure." 
He said he had seen all the hostages, but did not say how many were visite.d. The State 
Observer, Scholastic 
win awards 
Retiring Observer News Ed­itors Mark Rust and Mike Shields received honors at the annual convention of the Indi­ana Collegiate Press Associa­tion held this weekend on the campus of Indiana University­South Bend. Rust's two-l?art series on off-campus cnme earlier this year was voted "Best Investigative Series" in the state by the !CPA jud~es, and Shields' story enutled '!Pope Leaves Washington" won second place in the cat­egory of "Best News Story." 
Also honored was newly appointed news editor John McGrath, who was voted first Vice-President of the ICPA at its yearly elections, Karolyn Kunz, editor-in-chief of the IUSB Preface was elected pres­ident of the Association. 
The Scholastic picked up 11 awards which included n·ew general interest magazine of the year . 
The1lbs.enrer 
Night Editor: Ryan "Windy with Cindy" Ver Berkmoes Asst. Nig/Jt Editor: Cindy Kliros Eddie Holden Copy Editor: Lynne Daley Layout Staff Kathy Vick, Katie Durkin, ] J. "D.C. Here I Come!" Adkins News Editor Pam Degnan Features Layout: Kate Farrel Sports Layout: Beth Huff­man Typists: Kate Huffman, Beth 
Huffman, Mary Beth Budd, Kathy Festin, Tim Sullivan EMT: S. Paul Selavko· Proofreader: Sal ND Day Editor: M.B. Moran SMC Day Editor: Kate Huff­man / Photographer: Greg'Maurer Guest Appearances: Mary "I Love Kermie! Leavitt, Ann "Me Too!" Monaghan, Mikey "I Need Sleep" Ruhe, Neil "No Sense Going to Chicago...'' O'Brian, Orti 
The Oburver (USPS 598 920) Is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. Tile Obaerver Is published by the students of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $20 per year ($10 per semester) by writing The Observer, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 
Tile Oburver Is a member of the · Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

. ...... 
• • .Red Cross 
Department has put the num­ber of captives in the embassy at 50. 
Schmid de Gruneck also said he failed to get assurances from the militants that the Red Cross would be allowed to make regular visits to the Americans, who yesterday had been held for 163 days. 
Iran showed one of the hos­tages on television, identifying him only as Limbert. Previous lists of hostages gave the name of one as John W. Limbert, but no hometown was given. He said on television that living conditions were all right, ad­ding: "We have to sit It out." 
In Washington, the State De­partment dismissed the Red Cross visit as a "palliative," but acknowledged It could be helpful to the hostages and their families. 
State Department spokesman Hodding Carter said that if the Red Cross representatives saw all 50 Americans and were able to report on their status to their families, "it will be a P.ius." 
But, he added, '.'it will not be anything but a palliative, . . . a mask for the central reality that they are being held,'' as far as 


applications are auailable in the Student Union Office 
The deadline is FRIDAY APRIL 18 
$50 DEPOSIT (non refundable) for S415 SENIOR TRIP to NASSAU fi-&the BAHAMAS (oct 19-25) 



DUETODAY, 
tomorrow and thursday 
SMC deposits 6-8.Lemons 
IND Deposits 11-2 Lafortune 

??? ANNE 7850 MIKE 1623 
OONNA4-l-4868 PATTY 4-­
the United. States is concerned. "Our objective is their re­lease." 
Carter said he hoped the visit would not cause U.S. allies to losesight of the fact that "the po~nt 1s not whether they are bemg held in good condition, but that they should be releas­ed." 

Gaffney to give talk at forum 
The Christian Lawyers' Forum will present a talk by Professor Edward M. Gaffney, Jr., of the Law DeJ?artment of Notre Dame, entitled "The Lord's Prayer." The talk will begin at 4:00 p.m. this after­noon in Room 110 of the Law Building. 
Gaffney is a graduate of the Catholic University of America Law School and holds advanced degrees from Harvard Law School and the Gregorian Uni­
versity in Rome. 

The Observer Tuesday,April15, 1980-page 3 

Support grows . .. 




W. Germany favors boycott 
(AP) -West Germany gave of two Americans on the Inter­Roby had said the nations President Carter's drive for in national Olympic Committee, important to the boycott move­international boycott of the said the decision could spell the ment are Great Britain, France, Moscow Summer Olympics· its dea~h of the 1980 Moscow West Germany, Austrailia, strongest endorsement to date Games. New Zealand and Canada. Also yesterday, announcing that the considered important are the
The boycott also could affect
government did not favor send­Japanese.
the 1984 games set for Losing a team to the Games. 
Angeles. Austrailian Prime Minister Klaus Boelling, chief spokes­Malcolm Fraser said he was
In Moscow, preparations for 
man for the West German "very pleased" with the 2-1
the Games continued. Accord­
government, said it would re­vote by the USOC to boycott.
ing to a Soviet spokesman, ''the
commend that the country's He added, ''I believe now that
organizing committee is calmly
National Olympic Committee an effective boycott will e­
preparing for the Moscow O­
vote to boycott the Games as merge" an~ urged th~AustraJ­
lympics. The decision of the
long as Soviet troops remain in lian Olympic Federation to fol­
U.S. Olympic Committee will
Afghanistan. low the lead of the USOC.
have no effect whatsoever on 
The announcement,. two days However, the federation has
our preparations.''
after the U.S. Olympic Commit­been opposed to a boycott.
The official Soviet news agen­
tee voted to support Carter's cy Tass said, ''The Olympics Japanese Prime Minister Ma-boycott request, is expected to sayoshi Ohira. is to visit Wash­
will take place despite all the have a major impact on other schemes, maneuvers, provoca­ington at the end of the month, major U.S. allies who have not tions, intrigues, convulsions and Ja_pasnese officials have yet made their decisions. and paroxysms at the White said Oh1ra wants a pro-boycott 
After the USOC voted Satur­House.'' decision to present Carter then. day to go along with the 
The West German govern­France has not made up its
boycott, Douglas F. Roby, one 
met?t' s po~ition is not binding mind, pending a meeting next on 1ts National Olympic Com­month of European nations mittee. But, Willi Daume, West designed to form a joint posi­Gerinan IOC member, said the tion. West Germany's an­government's view "certainly nouncement is certain to provehas weight." important at that meeting.
NBC cancels Olympic coverage 
NEW YORK (AP) --NBC-TV placed with Lloyd's of London The U.S. Olympic Committee will not broadcast the Summer m September 1977. voted Saturday not to send a Olympics from Moscow, net­An NBC statement issued team to the Games. 
work sources said yesterday. Monday said: ''NBC has re­The policy with Lloyd's calls But the official announcement peatedly said it would be for NBC to recover if the 
will be delayed until the com­guided by the policies of the Games are not held, if the pany lawyers are certain NBC United States government and Games are terminated, or if the can recover some $57 million we reaffirm that. We are u,.s. Olympic Committee does­on an insurance policy. discussing alternate advertis­n t send a team. 
The $57 million represents the ing pl~ns v.;~th our Olympics' 
NBC had contracted to pay
90 percent recoverable portion adverusers. 
$87 million -$64 million to
of NBC's Olympic payment to President Carter has said no 
the Soviets for facilities and
the Soviet Olympic Organizing U.S. Olympic team should par­
rights and $13 million to the
Committee and the Internation­ticipate in the Moscow Games 
IOC. According to the payment 
al Olympic Committee, accord­because of the Soviet military 
schedule, NBC has already
i~g to a policy the network intervention in Afghanistan. 
paid a total of $64 million. Company sources said it was the idea of Edgar Griffiths, chairman of the board of
Europeans express confusion 
NBC's parent company, RCA, for NBC to purchase insurance to protect Its investment. No
over Carter's ~eadline' 
previous Olympic coverage had been insured, but no previous
LONDON (AP) -Western West European leaders 
Olympic broadcasting .rights
European governments, which planned to consult with their 
had ever been as expensiVe.
are under pressure from Wash­recalled envoys from Tehran in ington to join the U.S. sanc­anticipation of next Monday's NBC might not make an tions against Iran, expressed meeting in Luxembourg of official announcement until puzzlement yesterday about European Econimic Commun­both the U.S. team and net­President Carter's "deadline" ity foreign ministers. Iran will work don't show up at the for them to act. be discussed then. opening ceremonies July 19. 
Official sources in most Eu­Mrs. Thatcher told the No matter what the decision ropean capitals said they had House ofCommons on Monday on the insurance, NBC will received no specific date. that the Western allies were suffer financially. Even assum­
Only British Prime Minister conferring urgently and should ing there is a full insurance Margaret Thatcher, Carter's make a decision on joint action recovery, NBC will still have most enthusiastic supporter of at the meeting next Monday. lost $10-12 million, including tough action on Iran, offered ''Our job is to show our sup­the non-recoverable 10 percent quick formal words of support. port to the American people on the policy and various But even she said no date had and to President Carter," she Olympic related purchases and been recieved. said. expenses. 


The Observer 



Eureka! 
l 

-The Observer_ All Reporters: 




AbsolutelY 
Mande).tory

Meetmg 
Tuesday Night 7:30 I 
Tuesday,Apri115, 1980-page4 
Taking time to consider 


Anderson cancels campaign 
INDIANAPOLIS (AP) -Re­To win all the delegates, House. publican Rep. John Anderson Reagan would have to finish That backer conceded An­cancelled his presidential pri­first in the primary in voting in derson has almost no chance of mary election campaign in all of the state's 11 con­defeating Reagan for the GOP Indiana yesterday amid specu­gressional districts. nomination and said his lation he again was considering While Anderson is resting choices boil down to running as 
an independent bid for the and pondering a third party an independent or droppingpresidency. movement, Reagan has plan­out of the race, with an eye
Anderson, on the May 6 Re­ned several days of campaign­toward winning the 1984 GOP publican presidential ballot in ing in Indiana. nomination. Indiana, had been scheduled to Reagan will speak at a Vigo 
Anderson has disavowed ancampaign in the state on County Republican dinner effoft by millionaire StewartThursday. Tuesday in Terre Haute and Mott to ,mount an independent

Indiana campaign spokes­will be returning Monday and woman Bonnie Cronin said the Tuesday of next week for run. 
But at the same time, Ander­campaign trip was cancelled, further campaigning in In­son is seeking advice from Newalong with a planned trip to diana. 

York political consultant DavidMichigan. She and others did A prominent Anderson Garth, who is exploring thenot know if Anderson would backer in Indiana, who declin­possibility of an independentca~paign in Indiana before the ed to be identified, said the run.

pnmary. campaign is suffering from 
In Washington, Anderson's paralysis, partially because of Indiana in the next state wife, Keke, told a reporter the the uncertainty over whether where Anderson is on the candidate was taking a week the Illinois congressman will Republican ballot. off to rest, under her orders. continue as a Republican can­He is not on the ballot m 
Anderson's congressional didate or will mount an in­Pennsylvania, which holds its press secretary, Mike Bisnow, dependent drive for the White primary April 22. said the candidate was taking time off to spend with his family and to consult with both congressional and campaign 

Former governor faces
staff members about issues. 
Anderson's Indianapolis campaign office is remaining open, but one backer, who 

four-year prison term 
asked not to be identified, said there was no clear idea of how BALTIMORE (AP) -Form­hearing of the high court 
the Indiana campaign would be er Maryland Gov. Marvin Man­decision. waged in light of the cancelled del said yesterday he was "Somehow, someday, the campaign trip. relieved that the U.S. Supreme whole thing will come out. 
Most Republican observers, Court ended his appeal of his There's a story to be told," he including some in the Ander­corruption convictton although said. son camp, have said former he now will likely go to prison Mandel succeeded former 
within 30 days. vice-president Spiro Agnew asCalifornia Gov. Ronald Reagan governor and served from 1969is almost certain to win the "What they can do to me until his conviction. He wasprim~ here by a sizeable now cannot be as bad as what found guilty ofaccepting favors margtn. they have done to me," Man­to influence his action on theLast week, Reagan's Indiana del said. "I guess you get to now-defunct Marlboro race­campaign chairman, Dr. Den­the point when you're glad 
track, which was secretly

nis Nicholas, said be would not something's been resolved." 
owned by the by his fivebe surprised if Reagan won all 

The Supreme Court refused 
co-defendants. It was alleged54 Indiana delegates to the 

without comment yesterday to 
the scheme brought Mandel

Republican national con­
hear further appeals of the vention. 

Pre-advance registration programs will be conduct~ for freshmen in all college program areas on Tuesday, APRIL 15 at 6:30P.M. 
At each program complete information will be ~iven on the advance registration procedures and on the sophomore year and its relationship to the degree curriculum. 
The meeting places for the programs, according to college programs, are as follows: 
An~ and Letters College Programs (all, including AL Preprofessional) 
Engineering Auditortum 
11usint"~~ A-dministration College Program A through G at 6:30 P.M. I!aye.,· Healy Center, Room 122 H through 0 at 7:30P.M. P through z at 8:30 P.M. 
I ngineC'nng College Programs 
Aen•..;pan: 356 Fitzpatrick Hall 
,\rchllecture 202 Architecture Building 
( .hemical 207 Cushing Hall 
Civil 205 Cushing Hall 
Flectncal 212 Cushing Hall 
Fnguwering Science 254 Fitzpatrick Hall 
Mechanical 356 Fitzpatrick Hall 
M,..tallurgical 105 Cushing Hall 
Scienle College Programs 
Biology Galvin Life Science Center, Room 278 Chemistry Nieuwland Science Hall, Room 341 Eanh Sciences Earth Science Bldg., Room 101 Mathematics Computing Center & Math Bldg., Room 300 Microbiology Galvm Life Science Center, Room 102 Physics Nieuwland Science Hall, Room 327 Preprofessional Nieuwland Science Hall, Room 127 
(Science only) 

ALL FRESHMEN ARE REQUIRED TO ATTEND THE PROGRAM OF THE COLLEGE OR. OF.PARTMFNT THEY INTF.Nn TO FNTER TN THE SOPHOMORE YEAR 
1977 federal convictions of Mandel and five political asso­ciates. Mandel, 59, faces a four-year prison term, although his attorney, Arnold Weiner, said he would try to have it reduced. "I've never done anything to hurt the people of the state of Maryland and I'll continue to feel that way the rest of my life," Mandel said in hts Annapolis office minutes after 
some $350,000 worth of gifts, vacations and interests in bus­iness deals. 
In early 1979, a panel of the 4th U.S. Circuit Court of Ap­peals voted 2-1 to reverse the convictions. But prosecutors appealed, and in July the full appeals court deadlocked 3-3 on whether to uphold the convictions. Under federal rules. such a tie upholds a conviction. Thus the 3-3 vote reversed the panel's 2-1 vote. 

Court limits spending of presidential candidates 
WASHINGTON (AP) -This the campatgn. But those candi­
year's Democratic and Republi­dates who agree to public 
can presidential candtdates financing are prohibited, as· are 
cannot spend more than $29.44 their campaign committees, 
million in their general election from accepting any private 
campaigns, the Supreme Court donations. 
ruled yesterday. 
The decision to use private orThe justicess unanimously up­public funding must be madeheld federal laws attacked by by each candidate two weeksthe Republican National Com­after gaining the party nomina­mittee and others. 
tion. There has been no indica­Under the Federal Election tion that any of the DemocraticCampaign Act and the Presi­and Republican candidatesdenual Campaign Fund Act, would reject public financing. 

presidential candidates nomi­Last June 16, the Republicannated by the rwo major parties National Committee, the Riponmay finance their general elec­Society of New York and rwotion campaigns in· one of rwo registered Republican votersways. They may raise the funds from New York sued the Fede­through private contributions, ral Election Commission. Twolimited to $1,000 from each lower courts rejected their ar­individual or to $5,000 from a guments that the over-allpolitical committee, or they spending limit imposed on can­may accept public financing. 
didates who receive publicEach major party candidate iY,wls violates the free-speech

who seeks public financing is entitled to $20 million, plus rights of the candidates and adjustments for inflation, for would-be contributors. 

----.--' l ' ' .....~ .........•••• 
., 

,-----~---~------..........----------­
• 
The Observer Tuesday,AprillS, 1980-page 51 


The mysterious third lake makes it's annual appearance on campus, compliments of the spn·ng rains. [Photo by Greg Maurer). 
Wilson to direct SMC Alumnae Relations 
by Toni Aanstoos 

Leslie Wilsou is the new director of Alumnae Rela:tions at Saint Mary's College. Wilson a 1976 graduate of the College, assumed her duties yesterday. 
After obtaining her BA in sociology and social work, she worked as an assistant resi­dence director in Regina Hall for one year, then as an admissions counselor until her present position. 
The duties of the Director of Alumnae Relations are mani­fold. EasicallyWilson is respon­sible for coordinating and ad­ministrating all alumnae pro· grams. These range from such duties as preparing the annual Alumnae office budget, main­taining records and files on all alumnae . to participate in the 
preparation of Coun'er, and ph~nning class and college re­umons. 
When asked how she feels about her new job, Wilson replied, ''It's a good opportunity for my career to move into a relatively significant position in the College where I can actual­ize my beliefs toward Saint Mary's College and women's education." 
Wilson's general goal is to "build and enhance the already strong, active and viable alum­nae. Right now I just want to get my feet wet and start from the ground up. 
However, Wilson did men­tion twO specific Intentions: one is to increase continuing educa­tion (in regard to volume and quality) fro the alumnae and second is to organize the state alumnae associations into com­~unity support groups for char­
lUes. 
Diane Davis, the former dir­ector announced her resigna­tion last June after ten years of service, but did not actually leave the College until October. Davis left because she wanted a change in careers. Letters were then sent to all alumnae asking for applications to fill the vacated position. During the months between October and April, the Alum­nae Association Board of Direc­tors reviewed all the candidates and started making recommen­dations to Larry Durance, the 
Vice President for College Rela­
who is responsible for 

the director. He said there were approximately 12 to 15 applicants for the position. 
Durance explained since Wil­
will only be the fourth director in the Alumnae Associ­ation's 101 year history, "The Association had an 1dea of 'Miss Right' for the job." As a result, he said, the candidates went through extensive and thorough screening. 
According to Durance, the Association was very helpful in providin~ information and ad­vice .t~ a1d him in making afinal. 
Decision -Because of the varied nature of the alumnae make up, Durance stated "the most important factor in selec­ting the director was ability to .~ork well with diverse ages and mterests amoung the alumnae.' He added that Wilson had exemplified such an ability through her background in admissions which often works closely with the Alumnae Asso­ciation. 
Other characteristics that Durance felt made Wilson an excellent choice include "the way she handled herself during the interviews. She was very well spoken; she's bubbly and energetic," he said. 
Trying to pinpoint the mo­ment when. she decided she wanted to work at SMC, Wilson stated, "As a senior I did an intership working in the Dean of Students office, and I liked the life here at SMC." 
~ilson feels her major in soc1ology 1s advantageous in her work. ''The theory and skills are applicable in the public relations part of my job, but I feel what 1s most impor­tant about my degree is that it is from Saint Mary's College." she commented. 
Wilson's youth (she is 25) is an asset to the job "in respect to my energy level, my eager­ness to learn, and the fact that the majority of the alumnae is relatively young (half of the alumnae graduated since 1960) she claimed. ' 
Buedingto begin lecture Sl}ries today 
Ernest Bueding, professor at the John Hopkins University will present three lectures 1~ connection with the Niewland Lecture Series in biology. The lectures will be held today tomo~row and ~ursday at 4:30 
p.m. m the Galvm Life Science Auditorium. 
Today's lecture is entitled ''Generation of Metabolic En~ ergy in Parasitic Helminths.'' 
Tomorrow's talk will exam­inc ''The Role of Enteric Mi~roo~ganisms in Mutagenic i\cuvanon of Dru~5:." 
• 

Commission defines offenses 
by Mary Fran Callahan Senior Staf/Rejz.orter 
' 
. 

Two years ago when the Judicial Commission was esta­blished, Jayne Rizzo, the first Judicial Commissioner, com­mented, ''I see our image as evolving, evolving from non­entity to official voice.'' Last year, when Jim O'Hare was elected commissioner he said, ' 'Our strength will lie in getting ourselves known.'' 
The Judicial Commission was first created to provide students accused of University and hall offenses a . chance at more representation when ~oing be­fore the administration. Hall J -boards were established to deal with hall offenses while the Judicial Review Board was created for accusations which involved University offenses. 
DuLac defines University of­fenses as any threats or injury to a person or his psychological well-being. Campus disturban­ces, property damage, drugs and parietals also fall into this category. Any violation of direc­tives issued by the dean of students such as the keg deci­sion or the recent policy which prohibits alcoholic beverages in the stadium, also constitute a University offense. 
In a University offense, a 
student may contact the Judi­
cial Commissioner who will 
assume the role of what newly 
appointed commissioner John 
Plunkett called "a public de­
fender." 

Hall offenses are defined in 
DuLac as any 'violation of hall 
rules, theft or dama~e to the 
hall, or any action whtch infrin­
ges upon the rights or well­
being of fellow residents. Thus, 
some offenses could conceiva­
bly fall into a grey area if they 
happen to overlap the two 
definitions. 
If a student is accused of a hall 
offense, he may either deal with 
the rector or the hall J -board. 
Judicial Commissioners, how­
ever, have demonstrated con­
cern that students are not 
aware of their option. Rectors, 
however, have the right to 
"pull cases which are serious," 
according to Plunkett. 
Though he said he did not 
doubt rectors' honesty, he com­
mented, "I would say if one 
student .isn't aware he can go to 
the J -Board, that's too many. I 
just want the students to know 
that they have this right.'' 
When questioned about fric­
tion between hall rectors and 
J -boards, Plunkett said, "They 
very quickly develop a working 
relationship since an opportuni­
ty for conflict could be quickly 
resolved," referring to the rc:::­
tors' right to "pull cases." 
This year's Judicial Commis­sion, under the direction ofJim ·O'Hare, handled five cases, according to Plunkett. Two of 
onset of the fall semester "an account for and the remaining excellent idea.'' Students were 
three dealt with either drugs or sent diagrams which explained fireworks. Plunkett could not the procedu~e f?r dealing with accountfor the cases because he hall and Umvensy offenses in had no informatiuon left in his cooperation with the J -Board. files by his predecessor 0'. The new commissioner also the cases Plunkett could not 
Hare. plans to stage a presentation at 
"I can't say we're ineffec­August's freshmen orientation. tive," Plunkett commented ac­Plunkett wants the incoming knowledging the low numb~r of freshmen to be aware of the cases. "There did not seem to student judicial system from be a great need of the Commis­day one. sion this year," he continued. Because he believed this 
He could not say what the year's mailed diagram was a outcome of the three cases he sutcess, students will again 
receive information in the fall regarding the judicial system. Plunkett a,lso commented, "I
ObserverAnalysis 
int~':d to. keep ff!Y files updat­ed. Th1s year s commissio­ner's files did not contain much had information about was, but information at all regarding the said he thought two involved five cases tl:>at were handled byeither student withdrawal or the Commission. 
expulsion. 
Plunkett reiterated, however"I intend to keep my files that his primary goal will be "t~updated," Plunkett comment· strengthen the boards withined. 
the halls."
He commented on the com­If this goal is achieved, thenmission's evolution as promised perhaps· the body will evolveby its first commissioner when from "non-entitv to officialhe said, "I don't think it's come voice" as its first 'commissiQfler as far as it could.'' 
predicted two years ago.
Plunkett explained his fhiloso­phy of what a judicia board ..----------..
would be. "My idea of the function of the J -Board is that for the first time in our lives, we're taking charge. The J. Board is our first experience with self regulation by peers. I think that's importat\t to ful­fill," he commented. 
His primary goal is "aware­ness' ' -to make certain that students know of the J -board option when accused of an offense. He also wants this option to be a "viable one." 
"I would like to see the J -board chairmen in each hall take a more actrve role, " he said, explaining that his goal of awareness could be achieved most effec ·ively on the hall level. 
Plunkett plans to meet with residence hall chairmen and· encourage them to publicize their boards' existences He said he has not yet had the opportunity to hold anymtetings smce many halls have not yet elected their chairmen. 
Plunkett further called this year's mailing effort at the 
Right to Life ·groupplans feature week 
This week has been designated as "Respect Life W~ek" by the Notre Dame-' Satnt Mary's Right to Life Organization. A series of talks films, debates and a march ar~ planned by the group. 
JUDICIAL COUNCIL STAFF 
Anyone interested in working with the 1 Judicial Council in 1980-1981 
Applications are available from the Student Government Secretary now. 2nd floor LaFortune * DUE APRIL 18th * 

ATTEl'JTION 
ALL~(, 
~~Q~ ~~ 
STUDENTS 
Measurements will be taken for 
CAPS 
and 
GOWNS 
Tuesday April15 
and Wednesday April16 Between 
9:00-4:30 
at the 

NOTRE 
DAME 
BOOKSTORE 
·• 


----~-­
The Observer 

ND to host first American performance of 'pope' play 
by janet Rigaux Senior StaffReporter 
The Notre Dame-Saint Mar­y's community has a special delight in store this weekend. The first United States per­formance of the play, "The Day They Kidnapped the Pope," will take place in the Flanner Pit. 
According to Bruce Leibert, director of the play, the play was just recently translated inro English. "We just got lucky enou8h to be the first ones to do It in the U.S." he said. 
The play was originally wr~t­ten in Italian and performed 10 
Toure to hold talkon role-ofA-APRP 
Kwamc Toure, formerly known as Stokely Carmichael, will speak on the African Revolution and the role that the All-African Peoples Rev­olutionary Party (A-APRP) and all people of African descent continue to play in that revolu­tion, tonight. at 7 p.m. in the Nieuwland auditonum. 
Toure, and organizer for the A-APRP, will recruit African students from Notre Dame. 
~~Maybe 
it will 
go away!' 
The five most dangerous words in the English language. 
American Cancer Society~ 
the Vatican. It recieved high praises from the Vatican news­paper, Osservatore Romano. _It has also been performed 10 many other parts of Europe and South America and has recieved rave reviews every­where. 
Leibert is the one respons­ible for choosing to do the play. "I chose this play because it is so phenomenally different from any other play. It is very flamboyant and never stops moving. It is only extremely funny," he commented. 
The storvline of the play centers arQl!I)_d the kidnapping of Pope Albert IV while he is on tour in the U.S. He is kidnapped by a taxi-cab driver in Brooklyn who demands as ransom 24 hours of world peace. Ironically enough, a battle ensues as the police try to rescue the Pope. 
The play was written a year and a half ago by Joao Bethen­court and he wrote it in honor of PopeJohn Paul I. Therefore the character of Pope Albert IV is very similar to ] ohn Paul I. He is the peasant pope and very well loved. 
The play will be performed in the Flanner pit. "We chose to perform it there because we want the audience to get involved in the play, to become a part of it,'' Liebert said. 
"In the pit, the audience will be practically sitting on the set. 

We; want a community show 
and an intimate setting, which 
the Flanner pit gives us," he 
added. 
As an added plus to the play, elaborate spec1al effects have been devised. According to Leibert, ''The battle scenes are very authentic. The audience won't see any actual fighting, but they will be ducking be­cause the sounds are so real­istic. I hope the bullets aren't real!" 
The cast is small, consisting of 8 people. While they have performed in plays before, for most of them, this is their first student players elay. ''What they add to the play is fresh­ness, liveliness, and funni­ness," Leibert noted. 
The play will run Thursday­Saturday at 8 p.m., ending with a Sunday matinee at 2 
p.m. Tickets are $1 and will be sold today and tomorrow in the dining halls during dinner and at the door. 
Vncommon Women' hl(ginsrun 
The Notre Dame and Saint' Mary's women have united to sta~e a comedy production entitled "Uncommon Women and Others," which premiers toni~ht at 8:oo p.m. in the Reg10a Hall Auditorium at Saint Mary's College. 
"Uncommon Women and Others" has played on Broad­way and the Publi~ Broadcast­ing System. It IS centered on the strong female ~ri~nd­ships which can grow w1th10 a dormitory at a women's col­lege. 
"I wanted to do a show about women,'' Lisa Jaquez, director of the production said, "so here it is, a play that's about the life of women, show­ing their lives from their col­lege days at Mount Holyoke to their late twenties. think it works because the characters 
are  rich  and  our  cast  really  
pumps."  
"It's  been  an  uncommon  

experience working with our cast," said Saint Mary's stu­dent Adri Trigiani. "It doesn't to us who is from Notre Dame and who is from Saint Mary's. It only matters that we create a thrilling peice of theater. That is a real happening." 
"Uncommon Women and Others" will be playing tonight and tomorrow night in the Regina Auditorium at 8 p.m. There is no admission charge. 
Ombudsman meetingto 
run tonight 
The Ombudsman organiza­tion will hold an <)fgaoization_al meeting tonigh·-~·•· 7;00 -p.m. m the La Forturk ~ i: .'~mum. :\II pres~nt Om~udsrn1 .nernter and anyone 'l~ten_.:~ · -:~ 1 joi) ing the organmatlof te;{t ye l• should attend. 

Tuesday,April15, 1980-page 6 
Justice Olurses 
at Notre Dame 
ECONOMICS 

365 Economic Discrimination lMWF Brookings An Introductory -lecture and readings course on the economics of ethnic discrimination in the U.S. economy. Introduces the studentto the economic analysis of racism as practiced in the American economy, including strategies to eliminate it. 380 Development Econ~mks · 10.'1!12 Jameson . :After drawing Qn economic and polmcal htstory to clar1fy the present predic~ent of'fh~d ·World <:;~untries, thi~ co~;~rse focu~es og major issues m econom.1c and p_olmcal modemtzauon. Toptcs indude capdal accumula;ttof!-, agrtc:ultural reform, dependency, ideology and party orgamzauon. 
400 Developmentl3rd World'Justice . 9'1!ll Goulet (t.iross~listed with finance, Govt~ Anthro, Soctology, all 400, and Theology 470:;( 
. ~alyz~s $.1,,povel featuring a Latin ·Americ~ _prie~~ fighting for 
: sl:k:ial,Justtce ~nder the ba~er of Chrtstlan Theology ?f Iiberatton.·~ Hts efforts are mtegrated to a more systematic 
., ffarnewor.k ofwoild underdevelopment. '::w.... Al~ernative. J>hilo$ophie~ of Economic Justice lMWF Ja.nd (recommended for undergrads) StiJdy ofJfljeralutilitarian theories of justice; of the Marxian ~titi9ue. i)~;. contractari~ ~eorles of justice, and of their un 1ons for econom1c pohcy. 
•· 5\41 termtti6nalR.elations 9MWll O'Brien I~troduction to .tile st11dy of internaitonal politics, covering basic 
concepts, an overview of the cold war system, and a survey of current issues and trends. 341 International Relations 911'11 Loescher 
' A study of the basic aspects of intemation politics with an ¢inphasis ori the changi,ng character ofrelations among states and · vat1ous factors accountmg for these fluctuations, I 
.. 4P9 Religion .and Politics 1~~ Leeg_e , . . 
,,, ~~jiti~1b~~=!~~s ~~;1 ~~11f::~~~ltf:~~t;~1~~~i~l~~~d!£ 
tehgmn, psychology of religton, and voung behavtor. 
'4~2 ' Slai:~Am~ticari Politks 2TT4 Wright s·lis.ted· withBlatk Studies 422) ... ..... ~xam~t? _tQ,~· ways_ in which Blacks have ea~ici,Pated in A~en~n Jx,llttlc$, analy.zmg ~ternate f<!rms ofp~1c1patto~, from 
;:,th.e~.Qnven~Jpnal~ the .revoluttonary. DIV~rgent mteCP,t~tau~:ms of Black political life will be critically exammed and poli~tcal 1~sues defined as \:entral to the Amencan Black commumty will be discussed. 
425 Nuclear Weapons WorldPolitics 4TT6 Dowty Covers the strategic and military aspects of international relations, ineludlng concepts of nuclear deterrence, pr~blems of disarma­ment and arms control, and U.S. defense pohcy. 
430 International Political Economy-J TT3 Loescher . Focuses on the politic.al implications of the international economy from the rise of the market economy .to present day problems of 'finance trade, ··aid, development, multinationals, relations betwee~ East/West, rich/poor countries. 
431 International Relations of the Middle East 2T'f4 Dowty 
Historical and contemporary aspects of relations among mid?Je eastern stai:es, with emphasis on the Arab-Israel conflict, inter:Arab relations, and current U.S. policy problems in the area. Prequisite; Govt 341 
432 International Human Rights 2MWF Loescher/O'Brien Will consider the ways different societies define and implement h~an rights, the historical development and orgamzational structures of international human rights institutions, aud the 
impact of human rights standards as practiced in the First, Second, and Third Worlds. 491 Wodd Re~ional Geog~aphy 2T'f4 Brehob 
(Cross-listed with Earth Sc1ence 461 and Anthro 461) Involves the study of the physical, cultural, economic and political patterns of the eat1h' s regions. Some objectives I) to survey basic questions of man's survival as an urban-mdustrial social being on a finite earth, and 2) to examine contemporary bational and internationaJ'conflicts from a "g<;ographic" point ofjview. 
SOCIOWGY 
232 Social Problems 101TI2 Carlton What explanations are there for poverty, alcoholism, school dropouts racism, and sexism? Who benefits from these problem~? How do sociologists think about "social p~oble~s?" These questions illustrate the kinds of concerns wluch Will be discussed in this course. 
313 Sociology of Pove~ty . lMWF ·Lamanna 
(cross-listed · with Black Studies 313) Designed to give th:= studen_t a c~mprehensive imrod1:1c~n to the problem of poverty m A~enca~ s~1ety. The emphasts will be on understanding in soctal sc1enufic terms the causes and consequences of poverty. 
362 Ethnic Revival: The Black Experience 1TT3 Score 
(cross-listed · under Black Studies A study of the role of Black ethnicity in AJ?erican s~iety. Students will exp-lore in depth the Black ~xpt:nence and tts past and present implic:t•iioos. 
455 The Hhdth .Care System · : 11:M VF Gilbert Health (.~tte ~:~f-;::ms in B:itain, f;uke_, ·~~ Ger~y.-R!Jssia, China and$("',,'· ;.,J develop~ng na·_!·i~<vwlU t,. exammed, wtth ~11 eye to theiJ J (:.>.terns and ~nequi~:·· ~· .· · 
-'i•"-'';;.";..·---------­


• 


The Observer 


staff, and as a member of the layout staff. 
He stressed that he plans to emphasize the magazine's stron~ points. As a result, he tentatively plans to concentrate more on fiction and poetry in future issues. 
Tuesday. 
Wood encouraged students to get involved in the maga­zine. He expressed the hope that no one would be kept from applying due to the manacing photo of him which appeared in Friday's Observer. 
PSYCHOLOGY 

371 P~ychology of • • .Hollywood 
(cros5~Hsted under Black . 


Description available .,·.,."'"''"''h 
lHEOLOGY 

241 Ethics and Faith . W'dl Explore the distincdori moral behavior and Christi~ 
and the individual believer~ traditions of morality and · Wlll consider ways in vision and pattern ofliving centuries and still today. faith for the cortternO()tat course.. 
242 

[continued from page 1] 
a savings and loan and a parking lot. That somehow typifies the new Hollywood. 
Parking lots mark the sites of former Hollywood landmarks like cemetery slabs. Famous.­spots-turned-asphalt include the Trocadero and Mocanbo nightclubs on Sunset, the Rain­bow Grill on Vine, the Holly­Wood Hotel at Hollywood and Highland, and the Garden of Allah apartments on Sunset, which housed the likes of Gloria Swanson, W.C. Fields, Pola Negri, Rudolph Valentino, 
Humphrey Bogart and Lauren ~~~~~~~~=<~~~~~=<~~~~~~=<~~~~ 
Bacall, F. Scott Fitzgerald and
the Marx brothers. 247 Voices on N 
"Half the property in the Discovering the · • ·(·J:te···!8.hl:~s~ta;IJ commercial core area is _parking Scripture and vollowing its lots,'' says Sims, notmg the 
the goal ofthis introduction tremendous drop in property course center upon the tradition,· including Jesus, King, Jr., among others. 
• • • Vogt

340 Corporate Conscience {For Business majors only) . . A reflection on the Christian moral meaning of corporate · • • ···· ·• 
[continued from page 1]
and purpose within business organization~. The o~jectiye is...~() develop a comprehensive corporate ethic, which deals with th.e cals have published books and sel~-inu;r~st of the organization, multiple resp()nsibilities, an4 a pamphlets saying that the mur­soctal vtston for a more human world; •······ ( > der of six-million Jews was a 
mere invention, that the smoke3 7 3 Theology and Corpmunity .?ervice . 3 of Auschwitz crematories had(this is a checkmarked course. Register in 11 been caused by bakeries, that .
This experiential course willbe people had died from pestilenc( Chaplain at St. Joe Hospital. The. 
and never by gas.''
from 3:00 to 5:30. Students ar~ Vogt expressed indignation atcommunity service visit$ with . · .. 
a new rationalization of the once a week. Students explore the ~··;a~''.."'· Holocaust which was expressedqu~stions rai.sed by service expertence in a weekly German newspaper.
dytng, meamng of <:are, compasston) 
"The paper didn't maintain 374 Church and Social Justice 3W6Hommes. . .. , that there had not been a (Students must register for this course in lllOcB, Mem. Lib.) Holocaust, but that since the creation of the world, Holocaust
A follow-up for students involved to social ru;;tion ancl service has been everywhere.:'
projects ov~r the sum_m~r. L~mit, ofl6 ~tude~lts. Focu~ is (In "You will each understandunderstandtng of Chnsttan fruth m relationship to workrng for what this kind of inflationaryservice and social justice. · >. 
use of the word 'Holocaust'379 Reflections on Service Time to be announced McNeill means," she maintained. "We(This is a checkmarked course-tegisterin 1110-B, Mem.·Lib.f 
shall forget about the cause, the To discover the Christian significance of: compassion and helping true dimension, and the u­
in relationship to volunteer service activities in the commuruty will. niqueness of Auschwitz and will be t~e purpose of ~his co~rse .. On~ ·m'!lin g:oal is,to en~ble $tude:p,ts · feel discharged,'' Vogt warned. to dtscover new dtmenstons of meanmg m thetr actton/reflectton 
opportunities. · 
PHILOSOPHY 

SM C sponsors 
244 Philosophy of Law llMWF Sterba . .... .. i Seeks to explore ~swers to the following questions; . Should ~e law enforce morahty? When are persons responsible for th,;lt 
'Olympic
actions and when can they be punished? . What are ~e requirements for a just society? Practical problems encout~ed ..m answering these questions will also b.e considered · e.g~ drug 
Week'
abuse, homosexuality, capital punishment. The Saint Mary's Athletic
246 Ethics and Business 9Tfll and 10TI12 Garci<I Department is sponsoring anAn examination of the ways in whicll~oral theory can be bro~ht "Olympic Week," a four davtQ bear on business institutions, and of moral problems that~~· affair of both recreational aroin the context of corporate dedsion-making. ... · . i .ft·· 
"thletic event~. to be held :n
/~ ~·· v:. ·:-·v 1 /<l: l·e .... tl~F Pelao~y ·..•..•..• · 
Angela Athlet c Facility (.~if) A «mi ,-or adv<tl1t · ~ student; on John Rawls' A '[.~tjury :Jf and other locaLions on campus
justice .. ... .... . . . , .!. ;.Q®jlj ~ 
through Thursday of this week. 
~-,';··.,:;::· =:=-=:,:.···_')::<·J~,-.'.-: . ;:.'<:··. <=>Xt: •.: ··. 

values that have only recently begun to turn around. 
"We've had property bought in 1938 that sold for less in 1978," he said. 
However, a promising change has been the westward shift of the New York-based music industry. Most observers think the music­related high-rises along Sunset Strip will spearhead a Holly­wood renaissance. 
''Over the past four years there has been $42 million in major rehabilitation and expan­sion'' in Hollywood, according to Sims. He projects another $460 m'illion in new develop­ment for the next three-to-five years, including new hotels if the Summer Olympics are staged in Los Angeles in 1984. 
Even the police, despite their struggles wtth the very visible prostitution problem, say things are improving. 
''Three years a~o we had a major effort agamst vice in Hollywood," says the LAPD's Feinberg. "You can't even find massage parlors in Hollywood now, except maybe here and there." 
smn.ra.. STORAGE SPACE 
UIIIIIU·a

Sp •o1.1. _ fo ND
eel ~~At~Otml r IBid SMC students' 
4f Lock Storage of McKinley 816East McKinley 
Mishowoko 


---~~ ---~-------~ --~~~--------------------­
• 
' 

The Observer Tuesday, AprillS, 1980 -page 8 
In Cambodia 
Rice· shortage produces famine 
PHNOM PENH, Cambodia -line continuity will be broken if whether Cambodians eat or Cambodians, struggling daily additional resources were not starve are internal distribution 
to survive after 15 months of made available," he said. and the capabilities of the 
war and famine, now face a The delivery of seeds is be­farmers. critical shortage of rice seeds hind schedule. No seeds have The distribution system, al­that threatens to prolong their arrived by sea . A daily airlift ready riddled with problems,hunger. to Phnom Penh will bring only will be hamp_ered by the rainy
International aid officials say 2,500 tons in April. And it is season when many roads be­it is a "toss-up" whether doubrful that the usual 40,000 come impassable. Farmers enough rice seeds can reach tons of residual seed from ear­need fertilizers, pesticides and 
Cambodia in the next two lier harvests are available in tools -all in short supply. 
months to avert another dis­Cambodia. Some provinces "I don't think you will see astrous harvest and a huge stored seed reserves, others skeletons unless the distribu­food deficit. did not. Some farmers have tion system breaks down,'' 
"Even allowing for all the been forced to use part or all of said a food expert. ''All the hazards, we are bringing their seed reserves. same you will have a .lot of 
enough food so people won't The seed and food situation scavenging.''die in the streets and fields," was further worsened by The government that the says one international aid of­floods, droughts and rat infest­Vietnamese installed 15 
ficial. "But it will be a very ations during the dry season months ago after ousting Pol difficult year -many people harvest earlier this year. Only Pot and his Khmer Rougewill be sick and some will die.'' an estimated 20,000 to 30,000 regime still depends upon Viet­ton of rice out of an expected nam's army to remain in 
Each ton of seed that is not 50,000 tons were harvested, power. Its efforts to set up a available now will result in the and 14 out of 18 provinces got reliable network of officials in loss of roughly 10 tons of rice virtually nothing from their the provinces have been un­at harvest ume, an amount that fields. successful. can feed about 20,000 people What was to have been a Meanwhile, World Vision In­for a day. buffer for one or two months ternational, an American-based 
Only if farmers can sow instead forced the United Na­relief and religious organiza­90,000 tons of seeds before the tions to revise its food deficit tion, has entered into "a heavy rains begin in late ] une estimate from an initial220,000 partnership agreement'' withFirestone Tire and Rubber, are
by the llssociated Press 

and only if Cambodia receives tons to between 270,000 and the Phnom Penh governmentdominant in the economy of 300,000 tons offood from inter­300,000 tons for 1980. to reopen a children's hospital. 
Liberia, which also was theThe young ser~eant who is national agencies during the To cover the deficit would The agency's chief in Phnom Liberia s new chief of state told world1s largest "flag of con­next seven· months, will there mean bringing in 42,800 tons Penh, Ben Boyd, said the proj­his people yesterday in a venience'' merchant shipping be enough food to ward off each month, an impossible task ect -the first of its kind in ~pe<:ch promising equal justice fleet. 

famine until harvest. under present conditions. Cambodia -calls for foreignersfor all that he had President No resistance was reported Agriculture vice minister The two major agencies in to help operate the hospitalWilliam assassinated because Monday, although diplomats Kong Som 01 says there are "a Cambodia -the International and train Cambodians for anit was the only way to end said a dusk-to-dawn curfew thousand problems" and most Red Cross and the U.N. Child­unspecified[eriod.
''uncontrollable corruption.'' remained in effect' and the of the foretgn agencies agree it ren's Fund -have been con­Boyd sai the staffing hasIn his first radio-television borders and airport were is almost impossible for all sistently wrong in both their not been worked out, but might address since he seized power closed. 
these targets to be met. estimates of Cambodia's needs include three or four doctorsin a pre-dawn coup Saturday, Associated Press Corres­Major port congestion, poor and the ability of the relief and four to five technicians.
Samuel K. Doe said "We have pondent Michael Goldsmith in road and rail networks, lack of effort to meet them. Some of these might be Ameri­come to build a new society, a Sierra Leone quoted diplomatic security and technically quali­Two other kev variables in cans, he said. 
society of equal justice for all.'' sources as saying Doe stormed 
fied personnel "at practically
Doe's 10-mmute speech, into Monrovia's presidential 
every level compound the prob­
monitored in neighboring Sier­mansion shortly after 1 a.m. 
lem of managing efficiently the 
ra Leone, ended with the battle Saturday ar the head of a 20 
... Teatns
food supplies,'' said Garson
cry often used by Cuba's Fidel man strike force. Doe was a 
Vogel, executive-director of the
Castro: "The people's struggle member of the presidential 
World Food Program in Rome. 
continues.'' guard and thus encountered no WFP is a U.N. agency coordi­dinator Astrid Hotvedt Athlet­
[continued from page 12]
Diplomatic sources said Doe opposition. 
nating the Cambodian relief ef­ic Director Edward "Moose"The sources said he forcedassured American diplomats in fort. became the first-ever recipient Krause, Associate Athletic Di­Monrovia, the Liberian capital, his way into the presidential Vogel said there has been a of the annual award. rector Col.] ohn Sthephens and suite where Tolbert and histhat he wanted to maintain the drop in the amount of food Tricia McManus, who set an Father Edward Keller. 
wife were spending the nightcountry's traditional/ood rela­from donor countries. "We all-time school record for freeafter attending a conference oftions with the Unite States. 

foresee that within the next throw shooting percentage,U.S. compantes, notably visiting Baptist clergymen. 
couple of w~eks, the supply earned the Rich Hunter Free 
, , , Weather 



HOWARD HALL 
Proudly salutes its 1979 and 1980 Campus Basketball Champions 

good luckto our reigning baseball champs ! 
Throw Award, donated by No­tre Dame's varsity soccer 
co~~~~n McGlinn of the field [continued from page 12] hockey squad was honored joined by tackles Pete Grogan with the Nappy Coaches' A-and Mike Shiner and sopho­ward. The field hockey team more guard Tom Thayer. . also recognized Erin Burns as junior Phil Pozderac, sidelined its Most Improved Player and so far this sprin~ by a strained Debbie Raehl as its most neck muscle, wtll most likely spirited member. Carol Shukis reclaim the starting left tackle was the tennis team's most spot from Shiner when healthy. spirited player. On defense, senior John Han-Two club sports also singled kerd and junior Joe Gramke out members during the pro-' man the ends with Kevin gram. Kathy Merta earned the Griffith and Pat Kramer at the Most Valuable Player award tackles...junior tri-captain Bob for the track and cross country Crable heads up a young trio of squad and teammate Sheryl linebackers, flanked by sopho­Kearns was the most spirited more Mark Zabagnin on the player. right and junior Tony Belden on Senior Barb Apt was named the left...junior John Krimm the volleyball squad's Most and sophomore Dave Duerson Valuable Player, while Beth., are the starters at cornerback, LaRocca was reco~nized for her while seniors Angelo Fasano four years of dedtcation. and Tom DeSiato are listed at Dianne Patnaude, the first-number one at the safety spots, ever trainer in the women's although tri-captain Tom Gib­athletic department, was rec-boos and Steve Cichy will be in ognized for her service, as the lineup when they regain were Women's Athletic Coor-their health. 
Editorial Board and Department Managers 
Ihe Obser_ver.== 
Edztor-ln-Chzef ............ Paul Mullaney SMC Nl'ws Editor ........... Mary Leavitt Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 465.56 Managing Editor .............. Mark Rusr Sports Editor ............... Beth Huffman The Observer is an independent newspaper published by the students of t~e Features Editor .............. Kate Farrell 
Edltoni:zls Editor ........... Mike Onufrak 
University of Notre Dame du ~~and. Saint ~ary'~ C<?llege. It does not ~ecessanly Features Editor ............ Molly Woulfe
Senior Copy Editor ......... Lynne Daley 
reflect the policies of the admmtstrauon of etther mstttuuon. The news ·~ r.eported Photo Editor .................. John Macor
Neu•s Editor .................. Pam Degnan 
as accurately and as objectively as 'J>ossibleo: Edit~ri~ls represent the optmon .of a 
News Editor ................ Tom Jackman Business Manager ......... Greg Hedges 
majority of the Editorial Board ..Comll_lentanes, optmons, and letters are th_e vtews of their authors. Column space JS available to all members of the cC!mmumty, and News Edito.r ............... John McGrath Advertising Manager .. Mike Jki-~inger the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, ts encouraged. SMC Executlr1e Editor .. Margie Brassil Production Manager .... Ann Mc~•lghan 
• 
•

~' 
\ 

Features 
Tuesday,April15, 1980-page9 

My Temple is People 
I am definitely not one of the 
world's great tourists. Sight-seeing 
has always been something I prefer­
red to take in small doses. 

I remember traveling through Ger­
many and France a few years ago. I 
was with rwo others, who seemed 
determined not to miss a single 
church or wayside shrine within fifty 
miles ofour route. By the time we got 
to the famous cathedral at Chartres, 
the anticipated highlight of the trip, I 
had had it. I was not only 
oversaturated with cathedrals: I also 
recognized how disrurbed I was 
becoming over the contradiction be­
rween dozens of mammoth churches 
and the sight of the poor starving 
French peasants we were seeing all 
across France. 

The final straw came when I 
iOoticed at the entrance-way to Char­
tres a woman collecting money from 
:the visitors. She was wearing a sign 
around her neck, which read: 
·''Please contribute so we can build 
more churches like this." 

Now I have no problem recognizing 
'the place for beautiful churches --as 
·a means of manifesting our praise of 
•God. Still, it is terribly important to Iremember that God is much more 
interested in persons than in brick 1 and mortar. 1 I am reminded of the story John 
Howard Griffm tells of an occasion 
• when he and Dick Gregory were ' walking across a college campus to · the chapel where Gregory was to give 
a talk to students. Gregory was reminiscing about his past: ''When I was a kid, the Catholic church in my neighborhood was a refuge, a place away from the stink and noise of the slum. I found peace and quiet there. But years of bitter experience have reconditioned me. God, how I hate to walk into these pagan temples of hypocrisy!'' 
Harsh words? Unfair words? Interestingly enough, they are not disassociated from the words ofJesus Hi111self on that occasion when He visits the temple and becomes ex­tremely angered at those who were desecrating the holy place with their buying and selling. "Don't you dare turn My Father's house into a market," Jesus declared, as He threw them out. 
The first time Jesus said those words He was speaking about a temple of stone and insisting on the r~jection of an improper sacrificial practice. But when we hear them today, the condemnation is much more devastating. For Jesus has made it clear that persons are now the living temples within which He dwells in His resurrected presence. We are the house of hts ·Father, God's sanctuary, the shrine of His presence. St. Paul is even stronger: ":Oon't you realize that people are the temples ofGod, and that God will d,estroy , anyone who defiles His t~mple ?;'' It is chilling when we honestly reflect on how we've failed tltat challenge. How, as a nation and as individuals, we frequently treat people not as temples of the Spirit of ()Qd but as statistics --mere numbers ro be handled with bureaucratic ihlpersonalism. 
: Take the category suggested by Gregory's story --black Americans. Presently, there is a basic and cruel ~justice taking place in the heart of 
our nation's cities. There is a 
tremendous back-to-the-city move­
ment. It's called "Urban Revitaliza­
tio~." In cities like Washington, 
Ch1cago, Boston and Philadelphia 
the old inner-city neighborhood~ 
have suddenly become fashionable 
and very profitable. 

. T~e process is marked by a rapid nse m the real estate value of old city neighborhoods. Property values rents, and taxes rapidly mcrease. ' T~e poor, unable to compete in a h1ghly profitable housing market are forced to leave their neighborho~ds. 
A study out of Washington, D.C. indica~es that it has 100,000 people who will probably be displaced in the next four years; that's one-seventh of the entire population who will be pushed out of their homes. How rronic. ~irst, the poor are ignored and left m abandoned inner cities during the exodus to the suburbs a few years ago, and now these same poor are ignored again as develop­ment displaces them. 
~ecentl~, a real ~state developer (with an Insh Catholic name) who did sales in this displacement market to ~he tu~e of $35 million last year was Interviewed. He was asked if the fact that white, affluent people moving bac~ ~to the city, forcing poor, black famil1es out on the street, caused his Christian conscience any problem. "It doesn't present a problem," he answered, "It presents opportunities 
and challenges." When asked to what extent real estate people, for reasons of conscience, should inter­vene on behalf of the tragedy being 
Fr. Bill Toohey 
perpetrated on voiceless people he answered, ''I'm not sure th~t I understand your question.'' 
There then took place the following exchanse. Interviewer: ''I'd be rerr ·.ss 1f I dido't ask you if you're a re' ~ious person and if and how that rel .ttes to this particular problem and to your work in general?" Answer: ''I'm sorry but I don't consider that question to be appropriate in this discussion. My religion and my work are not totally separate --I don't think anybody's are .. but I really don't feel compelled to go into that." 
One is permitted to wonder whether he would feel compelled if he were to hear the voice of the voiceless: "Whatever you do to these, even the least of My brethren, you do it to Me." That realtor is undoubtedly a man simply unaware of the facts of life, seeing no connection berween the poor people he profitably displaces from their nomes during the week and the]esus Christ he worships in church on Sunday. 
There is meant to be a lesson in this for each of us. What, for example, are college students going to do about this challenge when they move out into "the real world?" What kind of answer do they give to ~he cry of their Father: "My temple -Is holy...My temple is people!" 
Editor's note: Father Toohey, Direct­or of Campus Ministry, is a regular Features columnist 
FestivatShowcases Senior Talent 
After dancing the ni~ht away at the Formal, many weaned, partied-out seniors were returning Sunday after­noon and asking ''What was that thing-o-rne-hopper planned for the five days ofrecovery after the Windy City weekend?" That "thing-o-rne­hopper" is the Senior Arts Festival, a week bursting with a classful of creativity. The festival began Sunday mght wtth the opening of .the print and p~inting ~how at the Isis Gallery and will contmue through April 19. 
Created last year by Kathy Ryan, the second annual Senior Arts .Fest­ival is a collection of senior creativity open to all N.D. students. According to Chairman Gumz, the festival has been and will continue to be a "class activity" joining all majors (even pre-meds and engineers) in a com­mon demonstration of their talent and growth. Crossing major, clique and dorm lines, the Festival is special as ''the last activity the class can share as a whole.'' 
As head of the 
Senior Arts Festivai, Kim Gumz 
shouldered this commitment always 
reminding herself of its purpose. 
"You have to have art," Gumz said. 
"The festival is a valuable thing." 
This week will paint a picture of the 
people who have produced this art. 
Interviewed and chosen for her 
position last October by Dave Elli­
son, Cultural Arts Commissioner, 
Gumz thinks the Festival ''will 
reflect the Class of '80 in a way 
different from GPA's and graduate 
school acceptances. It's a measure of 
the growth they've achieved in their 
four years at Notre Dame." 
To get a snapshot of this growth 
and of what the senior class thinks 
1 

about, feels about, and is about, all you have to do is stroll over to the Isis Gallery, SMC's Regina Hall, the Nazz or the Senior Bar some night this week.­
You can find, enjoy and appreciate self-expression in the visual, music­al, plastic, and literary arts. 
The Isis gallery will be open from 7-9 p.m. Tuesday through Saturday for the visual art section of the Festival featuring Lisa Barrett, Kar­en Flatley, James Hofman, Ken McAlpine, Beth Schweitzer and Per­ry Stow among eighteen others. To~ay, you can . see prints and pamtmgs. Wednesday will bring a change of display; you can exper­ience three-dimensional art and works by fourth-and fifth-year architecture majors. 

Tonight, tomorrow night and Thursday evening, you can get a taste ofsenior drama at ''Uncommon Women", directed by Lisa ] aquez. Beginning at eight o'clock at SMC'sa Regina Hall, you will see a play directed, acted, and staged by women. 
Tuesday through Saturday nights you can hear the seniors express themelves musically at the Nazz and the Senior Bar. The exact times and musical acts will be announced by a daily poster and a reminder in The Observer's Campus Events column. Tonight Wednesday and Thursday, music will be floating across campus from the Senior Bar. On Wednesday, Thursday and Friday, seniors will perform tunes at the Nazz. Satur-
Jane Barber 

day's musical entertainment will be announced. Kim Gumz describes the variety of musical talent: "We have scheduled acts from Dan Fogelberg ~ypes _to Chuck Mangione types , mcludtng concert pianists, singers and a dancer.'' 
If you're interested in contempor­ary literature, you may read fiction and poetry composed by some of vour present literary cronies. In the ·;·estival's program you can read 
Mr. Herman Oliver Reasons Inside Living Preparatory School,'· by Anne Duffy. a short narrative with long thought by Steve Dillon. or "The Energy of Extension: 'Ode on a 
·Grecian Urn' " by Carol Shuback. You can venture into a variety of verse in the three poems by Mike Gazzero. Also included in the prog­ram are paintings by Beth Schweitz­er, Lisa Barrett, and Karen Flatley, and a photograph by Ken Kress. 
As advice to future Festival help­ers, contributors, and chairmen, Gumz said, ''The most important thing is to remember why you'' re doing this and not to become too seriously involved. You care about it an awful lot, but if you worry too much you lose sight of its purpose. This will only stifle the spirit of the Festival.'' Keeping this optimistic attitude in mind, Gumz feels the atmosphere of this festival is "a relaxed one where people feel they can attend enjoyably'' and appreci­ate the Festival and what it must mean to seniors with a mere three weeks of school left. 
Editors note: ]ane Barber, a fresh­man from Hillcrest, Maryland, is a Features Staff Writer 
I I I I 

0 
, • l.i4o-L ,1,.}... A J..,J,jJ,t • .S • ... • ""' h I<" I" I" to",_ tt II'· • #' k ,. • f" II' fl.' II f/1 .. il'. o\ ~..·II'."" I'"_ ojt ,_ ,.. 'f' il' c ' .. ~ r ~ ilt" I t. f' 1 I I \ l. I • J t • ' ' • • < t ' ...... _,. ., • • ,.. .. ·I ,.. 1 
.......-. " ... ". ,._~ L~ ...:. : __ -~:L-'""~Ttr--..-..·~ ~.-..~... ·{.::~·t-o-..~..~ ...~~-~...~i-~f.:-1-~ 
.. ..~ 


.--..-------------------------------------------~.~------------------------------------·--­
I 

The Observer -SportsBoard Tuesday, Apri115, 1980 -page 10 
ins.er and left-handed hitting Dame's record to 11-4, a record
[continued from page 12) back and retained our poise."
Mtke Jamieson, who also con­with which Kelly is quite pleas­The Irish resume play Wed­rally of the contest. tributed two runs batted in. ed. 
nesday with a doubleheader
A six-run sixth inning high­Mike Kenahan, the fourth "I'm particularly happy with 
versus the St . .Joseph Pumas in
lighted a 13-7 come-from­pitcher of the game for the the way we fought back in the 
Rensaleer, Ind. St. Joe repre­
behind victory for Notre Dame Irish, picked up the win in final game. When you're play­
sents one of only three out of
in the nightcap. Six Irish bats­relief, boosting his record to ing on the road and it's as cold 
town opponents remaining on
... Split 
men rapped out two hits apiece, 2-0. as it was, one loss tends to lead 
the schedule. Following Satur­
including senior Mark Simend-The victory lifted Notre to another, but we kept battling day's home doubleheader a­gamst Dayton and twinbills versus Valparaiso and Western 
Molarity by Michael Molinelli Michigan on the road, the Irish 

nine play twelve of their final fourteen games on their own Jake Kline field. 
Bookstore 

In the Bank over Kegs by 10 Pres. Tlto's 5 R.T. over The Cross by 7 Dogsters over 4 Throats ard a Cheg by 3 Sir Vic's over Hank. etc. by 6 Apocalypse over Moses and the W.J. by 
2 (OT) . 
I.M. Stiff over Lipstick by 2 Runaway Inflation over Vegetable Pro­
ducts by 2 Team Cannibus over Dream Team by 20 Nickerzuesters over Sultans of ... by 12 Thurman Munson and ... over Darby 
and the HB's by 11 JV Cain over Cellar Dwellers by 9 Cogan's Heroes over Win One for ...
Doonesbury by Garry Trudeau 
by 15 Stabbed over Bokassa ... by 8 Digger over Rockne by 2 Purple over Ricci ... by Forfeit Coke and a Smoke over Kiddie and the 

W by Forfeit
14.E'f(& 5Titl.. TALKING ti/ITH 


Sophisticados over Tim Connally ... by
l£KE BRENNeR, tllflH 1/S 

12
7011AY 70 P/.UG HIS R£­

Spldey's over Lance Romancers ... by
: CENT/..Y PfJI!JU5H£P WMJ/1?., 

12
•!J(JK£: f«(T!?Aff OF A 

Backboard Bombers over We Hate,
~ I MEN/(JR. • 

Loathe, Dlsplse Frank Lagrotta by 2 Just For Fun over Wings by 2 (OT) Morgan's Organs over Jam . . by 
disqualification Bruno Cruisers over Squids by 2 Drs. of Funk over Ayatollahs by 13 Basket Cases over Gacy's Yunnel Rats 
by Forfeit Five Who Feel ... over Hey, Bookstore . ' . by 15 Detective Saigon over God Squad ... by 
4 Five Guys ... over Dr. Dud by 8 Win One over Cubans ... by 9 Cheaters over Little Com p ... by 17 Mitch's and Rich's over Unknown B·BallACROSS 28 insect 58 Way up or 13 A Clark 
by 13
-of pot­32 Tunisian down 21 Seville Harry's HJ's over Anti-Slugs by 1t tage port 62 A Waugh aunts 
Shaved Ham ... over Name's Not 
6 Agreement 35 Least 63 Formerly, 22 Winglike
The Daily Crossword 
Important by 5 10 Headliner aberrant once 26 Chopping 
Doubtful' over Untalented Five by dis­14 Ms. Abzug 37 Amin 64 Handle tool 
qualification 15 Guthrie 38 Leaches 65 Actress 27 Battery 
U.S. over Off by 11 16 Nimbus 40 Angle Patricia part 
Sean's CE over Chappaquldick by 5 17 Watchful suffix 66 Pagan 29 Extensive 
Mother ... over Hogs that ... by 6 guardian 41 Sea duck occurrence 30 Concept 
Thurman and ... over Capt. Coming by 18 Rock chain 43 Grande or 67 Slowly, 31 Lass 
2 (OT) 19 In an un· Bravo in music 32 Painful wise way 44 Binding 68 Biblical 33 Epee's 20 Daydreams promise weed relative 23 Decimal 47 Factual 69 Rushed 34 Black Sea 
Interhall

base 48 "-Madigan" 70 Loom bar gulf 24 Between 50 Wipe out 36 Implanted A and U 52 Urbanites, D<'WN 39 Youth 
Women's racquetball25 Scope or for short 1 Nautical 42 Choler 

Bankioh's (233-1177) vs. Chopko (8050)vision 54 Exist term 45 Prepares 26 Turkish 55 Extinct 2 Oberon of to shave city bird the cinema 46 Cup handles 
Man's Racquetball 3 Certain 49 Winter 
Trozzolo (8253) vs. Fillingham (3326Monday's Results marbles pendant 
Butler (1166) vs. Onufer (1109) 4 Slow goer 51 Hard seat 
Alexander (6774) vs. Allston (287·6304) Striebich (1417) vs. Hines (3235)
M A S S E • T S U-A P R 0 N 5 Like a 53 Denude 
Finn (234-0467) vs. Pedace (3092)
0 P T E D. R U T-L L A M A Geisha girl 55 Airs O'Toole (4529) vs. Gallagher (232-7415)T R A N S P I R E-A I R E S 6 Pastor's 56 Speechify 
Hatfield (2255) vs. Thomassen (3239)
T I N T • A U F -M E A N T house 57 Onetime 
Slatt (1725) vs. Jackson (6759)
0 L D.A I M.l K E S­

7 Pertaining actress 
Fisher (6770) vs. lynch (1185)
NVENED.EFT 
to Mars: Mary 

Rose (7583) vs. Shank (8762)
E •IRELANDER 
pref. 58 Circus 

Arvm (8996) vs. Philbin (1652)
A L A R G_IR A S_lP~O N N 0 

8 Riven per1ormer 
Labinger (6216) vs. Schaffer (6934)
W E S T C 0 lA S T • B R~ £~ 

9 English 59 Norman of Racquetball Doubles candies TV fame 
Championship 10 Result of 60 Bone: comt.. 
SA Y"'ll 
T EM"""'"" 

Slat! and Philbin del. Gallagher and
'''~ EM~~-,~~6 

AM I S U B L I C kN S fisticuffs form 
11 Powder 61 Vicinity TREA EE.STEEL 
base 62 Hill All Rights Reserved 4/15/80 12 Confederate dweller 
Baseball 

,Tuesday Aprill5, 1980 NATIONAL LEAGUE
TIPPECANOE PLACE RESTAURANT 
Monday's Games 

Pittsburgh 5, Chicago 4, 10 innings Cincinnati 6, San Francisco 5 Atlanta at Houston, (n) 
IS NOW HIRING RESTAURANT PERSONNEL 
full or part time;day and nisht shifts ~ c\~ 7pm-3am 
los Angeles at San Diego, (n) 
Only games scheduled
high wages; excellent benefits e~9° 
AMERICAN LEAGUE Monday's Games 

training:classroom and on the job 
cordial atmosphere .,.. u 
Milwaukee at Toronto. ppd .. rain Boston 3, Detroit 1
.-..---•,or.--
FOODWAITERSANDWAITREssEs susBOYS/BUSGIRLS 
MOLSON 
New York at Chicago, ppd., rain 
COCKTAIL WAITRESSES DISHWASHERS BROILERCOOKS 
Texas 7, Cleveland 4 Seattle at Oakland, (n)
HOSTESSES BARTENDERS PREP COOKS MAINTENANCE MEN 
Minnesota at California, (n) 
APPLYIN PERSONBETWEEN9:00am&6:00pm 
GOLDEN ALE
MONDAYTHRUSATURDAY 
Hockev ~ ~l=6=2~0=W~.W=l=!~==·~::!:;l·~t:::i~~~O;t:;:~;:=~r:;~;:::;;:~:;:t:;;:=~:::;:t~=Be=n:::d=,l=t:n::;d.~ ,. ~ ..~~.....,.,.......___ __ 
1 AT EOE-M/F 
.. ·····~· 7_5¢_.............,._..............~.1' ~~·.._B~~sto_,.n6,_• .-Pitt-sb""""urg-h-2...._·~·'.j~~.ot'r··~~:·:\.1.' ~~··.~, 
__ ·
~-.(')-;\'_.·________'_·,(_·_(_,1_·,_{~_·,·,_'··_··'_·___·· ,(_·(-\i_··/________________________~_._·i_'·._·_··_·_____._~_._·__·..... 



\· 

The Observer -Sports 1Tuesday,-.April15, 1980 -page 11 
Under Beisal 
Sports Briefs'---_____,
SMC softball team opens season Sailers finish sixth at OSU by Beth Huffman The Irish Sailing Club finished sixth out of l3 teams in astrikeouts and six bases-on­combination that I want to ~o regatta held last weekend at Ohio State University inSports Editor balls against St. Francis in the with at tournament time," said Columbus. Ohio Weslyan won the competition held undersecond game on Sunday. Beisal. ''I am not upset with the dismal weather condiuons. In the "A" division SkipperThe St. Mary's softball sea­Bayless got plenty of offen­weekend performances due to Phil Reynolds and Crew Margarita Cintra placed sixth.son commenced on a sour note sive help from her teammates the weather and the fact that Angelo Capozzi skippered the "B" division crew of Nancylast weekend as the Belles in the 13-4 win. All nine starters we've had little/ractice time Sandberg to fourth place. The Sailing Club travels to thedropped three of their first four collected at least one hit for the ouside. We nee to work on University of Michigan in an attempt to qualify for thegames. Grace College topped rookie hurler. Sue Nickels pitching control and defensive Midwest championships. St. Mary's on Friday 3-2 and pounded a single and two-. situations. but other than that 13-9 in a weather plagued bagger while Amy Morris and I'm as happy as you can be doubleheader. The Belles man­Lou Weber hit two singles when you're l-3." Crew wins in. weekend regatt~aged a split with St. Francis' apiece. The St. Mary's team travels Colle~e on Sunday, dropping "I'm still looking for th~ to Butler on Thursday. The Notre Dam~ crew won all four men's boats against the first game 17-13 and then Michigan and Grand Valley in the dub's first home regatta winning the second half of the Graham 6-2, 6-2. of the year last weekend. The Irish came from behind to twin bill, 13-4. No. 3 Jim Falvey/Tim Noonan (NO) del. win the varsity eight race by 'iix seconds based on thel"ennis Ted Bishoo/Eddie Nelson 6-1, 6-0.''The weather really was a strength ofcaptain Dick O'Malley. In the junior varsity and Notre Dame 8, Northern Illinois 1 factor in the second game, " novice "B" competition Notre Dame dominated to win bySinglessaid Belle manager Scott Beisal Notre Dame 9, Bowling Graan 0 nearly 20 seconds while the novice "A" boat came in four after the two losses to Grace. Singles No. 1 Mark McMahon (NO) def. Chris seconds ahead of Grand Valley. In the women's "A"Neufeld 4-6. 6-4, 6-0. "Both pitchers lost control and No.1 Mark McMahon (NO) def. Bud Zett~r No. 2 Carlton Harris (NO) def. Pete competition Grand Valley topped both Michigan and Notre there were a number ofwalks." 3-6, 6-1,6-2. Burkhardt 6-1, 6-3. Dame. The crew races Michigan and Ohio State at home on Friday's doublehc:-ader was . No. 2 Carlton Harris (NO) def. Barry No. 3 Herb Hopwood (NO). def. Terry Saturday, April 19 and at Purdue on Sunday, April 20.Conlan 6-2, 7-5. O'Brien 6-4, 6-2. played mainly because of the No. 3 Herb Hopwood (ND) def. Dave No.4 Ed Grinius (NI) def. Mark Hoyer 7-6 long journey Grace made to Epstein 4-6, 7-6 (5·3), 6-2. (!:l-3, 7-5. South Bend, despite cold, rain No. 4 Mark Hoyer (ND) def. Steve Corey No. 5 Tom Hartzell (NO) def. Bowen Irish golfers take third in tourney and snow. 6-4, 6-1. Adajian 6-3,6-1. Mary Bayless and Marybeth No.5 Tom Hartzell (NO) def. Mark Zekas No. 6 Tom Robison (NO) def. Peter 6-3, 6-2. Fries, '11ag 6-1 6-0 Notre Dame's varsity golf team took third place in the Hosinski were the losing pit­No.6 Tom Robison (ND) del. Andy Cantrell ' o~ublas 15-team Indianapolis Invitational yesterday. Purdue won the 75chers in the Grace games. 6-2, •· Doubles No.1 Harris/Hoow.ood (ND) del. Neufeld/ 36-hole tournament with a 733 team score, followed by Ball Bayless, a freshman, gave up Burkhardt 6-4. 6-1. State with 745 and Notre Dame at 748. Larry Gosewehr, a just two runs in the opener, but No. 1 Harris/Hoowood (NO) def. Conlan/ No.2 McMahan/Hoyer (ND) def. Grinius/ Purdue freshman, stroked to the individual medal at 138.S M ' '1 b I d Cantrell 4-6, 7-6 (5-2), 6-3. Frieschiag 5-7, 7-6 (5-3), 6-1. John Lundgren, Bill McGuinness and Tim Sacheck scored att, ary s s1 ent ats sea e No. 2 McMahan/Hoyer (NO) def. Corey/ No. 3 Jim Faivey/Tim Noonan (NO) def. the loss. Hosinski, a ·natural Bob Ferfuson 6-3, 6-2. · sixth, seventh and ninth for the Irish. •0· · h No. 3 Jim Falvev/Tim Noonan (ND) def. 'Brien/Adajian 6-2, 6-0.h fill. s ortstop 1 mg In as a pltc er, letter/Epstein 6-2, 5-7, 6-1. Notre Dame 9,"DePaul 0 took the loss in the nightcap. Singles "When she was on, she was Notre Dame 9, Bellamlne o No. 1 Mark McMahon (ND) def. Mark Irish Lacrosse Club wins 10-6 on with speed," said Beisal of Singles Parish 6-3, 7-6, (5-2). Hosinski, who. also absorbed No. ·' rv1ark McMahon (NO) def. Peter No. 2 Carlton Harris (ND) def. Cort · ' A strong midfield trio of Mike Norton, Carl Lundblad and Sunday's 17-13 loss to St. Thompson 6-2, 6-0. Lewis 6-1, 6-1. Don Pace led the Irish Lacrosse Club to a 10-6 win over the Francis. "She could really put it No. 2 Carlton Harris (NO) def. Jimmy No. 3 Herb Hopwood (NO) def. Rick University of Illinois on Saturday. Norton tallied one goalMiller 6-1, 4-6, 6-3. Velasco 6-1, 6-2. past them. Her inexpenence No. 3 Herb Hopwood (ND) def. Mark No. 4 Mark Hoyer (ND) del. Jack with four assists, Lundblad tapped two goals and Pace came through, though, in the Habeed 6-0,6-2. Sawicki 6-0, 6-1. added two goals and one assist for Notre Dame. Maurice. large number of walks she gave No.4 Mark Hoyer (ND) del. Chris Graham No. 5 Tom Hartzell (NO) def. Tishar Beshlian scored a rare goal for a defenseman in the contest d'd · 'k 6-0, 6-2. Patel 6-0, 6-7, (4·5), 6-1. while providing excellent defense with T1'm MI'chels. Two up. She I manage SIX stn e-No. 5 Tom Hartzell (NO) def. Jeff No. 6 Tom Robison (ND) def. Mark outs." Leatherman 6-1. 6-1. Greenwell 6-2, 6-2. Doubles ju~io_r midfic;Iders, D_an Charh~t and ~ob Durgin, recovered St. Mary's only win of the No. 6 Tom Robison (ND). def. Don Riggs No. 1 Harris/Hopwood (NO) def. Pa­lOJUnes _to aid the Insh. Goahe _AI Pmado provided ~otre weekend came behind the pit­6-0, 6-0. rish/Lewis 7-5, 6-3. • Dame·with excellent play, collectmg 13 saves. The 6-2 Irish ching of Bayless. The Evans-Doubles No.2 McMahan/Hoyer (ND) def. Siwa­host_ riva! Unive~sity of Michigan at 8 p.m. tomorrow on ton, Ill., native pitched a four­No.1 Harris/Hopwood (ND) def. Thomp­cki/Patel6-0, 6-1. Cartier Field. Michigan leads the conference in first while hi't, cour-run win with five son/Miller 6-1, 6-0. No.;3 Jim Falvey/Tim Noonan (ND) del. the Irish maintain second place. ~---­1 '------------------------~No~·~2~M~c~M~a~h~o~n/~H~o~e~r~N~D~d~e~f-~H~a~b~ee~d~/~_~Ve~l~as~co~/~G~re~e~n~w~el~l~6-~1~6~-4~.~------~--------·---------------------------------------------~ All classified ads must be received by 5:00p.m .. two days prior to the issue in which the ad is run. The Observer office will accept classifieds Monday through Friday, 10:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. AllClassifieds classifieds must be pre-paid, either in person or through the mail.  

Got ablank space on your wall? Fill it E. Angela Walker only 3 months and Jod,with color basketball action photos.Notices For Rent 24 days of freedom left If I get you up in tryouts today, andAll players, all sizes. Cheap. Not Love Supes I know I will, will you promise not to Attention: Did your Mom or Dad available from Ronco or K-Tel: CaliHouse for rent Sept. 3 bedrooms, hit me anymore.graduate from ND or SMC in 1956? 8932.garage, air conditioning near N.D. Love, PazATTENTION FRESHMEN ANDThe class secretary of 1956 has $200 includes everything 233-1329 P.S. where's Delaware?SOPHOMOREScommissioned me to get a list of you 1977 Camaro, silver 28,000 miles, Pursue a certificate program In Socialall. Anyway, please call 8661 or 1715 automatic on console, small V-8 getsNeed male students (preferably) to Work while you earn your degree. Wanted: Women's model 10 speedat your earliest convenience and ask 18mpg city, stereo 8-track, $3,6000;share three bedroom house, newly bike 287-4336For additional Information contact:for ceil. thanks for your help. 1978 LeMans, maroon, 20,000 miles,remodled. all new carpet and partially Charles Martucci, 131 Madeleva Hall,automatic small V-6 gets 21 mpg city,furnished. Near N.D. Call 289-7269 Marty Whooshlowski:Professional Typing. Reasonable Saint Mary's College, Phone 284­Am-Fm s,tereo-front and rear speak­after 5 pm. Are you ...Rates. Experience typing thesis, 4755ers, $3200. Both are In excellent "Probably"journal articles. 291-0495. Rooms -Now and/or Summer. $40 condition. Call Lewis at 1234 week­Going to be ...Deirdre Reidy,month. 233-1329. days, or 288-2961 evenings and week­"Yes"Typing Plus. Term papers, theses, You're 21, "presque voisine", andends. busy on the 19th; Oh I thought so ...dissertations. Ligth editing, ghost -searching for a surprise pizza party, P.S. send us a post card from Africa.writing. Literary search, bibliograph­Join the crowd! Pope John Paul II for right? Happy Birthday, Speedy!! Charlie the Tunaies, genealogies. Job resume service. Wanted president bumper stickers. $1.00 Love, Kit Sliding rate scale based on lead time. each/three for $2.00 satisfaction 'Sorry Charlie, only good tasting TunaSpecial discounts on full contracts for Will Pay $1000 for McDonald's Menu­guaranteed_ Colden Do·me, Box 41 Woolhead is the B.H.O.C. get to go out with Marty.theses and dissertations. aardvark Mania Stamp 1202 or $100 for stamp Bargenfield, N.J. o7621 automatic solutions p.o. box 1204 1213 Bob 6801 . CONGRATULATIONS BART ON THE Dan Jussey is so ugly that when he46624/ohone 1219) 289-6753. JOB OFFER!!! was born his mother nursed him withAttention: anyone interested In living Tickets a bazooka hussey is UMOCIn South bend for the summer and Michelle, wants to live in a house, I need 2 Desperately need two padded tlx to Tonight's your night! The Blue­ost&Found K.A.F.,housemates. House Is on Eddy st. John Denver Money almost no object. Gold Game is May 3rd Are you bored with these personalsFound: Set of computer cards -on the Call John at 6760. Call8708. Guess who already? Here's something different:lawn In front of O'Shag. Claim at how about dinner this wee~end?1. Twiggy, even lobster can'tObserver Office. Need ride to Davenport Iowa April Admirer18th Call JK Julien at 1771. compare -everything was delicious!Personals  

Lost: HP-25 March 10-14 in Engi­neering Bldg. Please return to lost & found or Dean's office. 
Found: A calculator in rm 303 in Engineering Bldg. Call 4286 to identify. 
Lost: 1 14k. gold braided chain bracelet. If found. olease call 7812 
Lost: (last thurs.) Set of keys w/brown leather strap and metallic scorpio pendant. If found please call 3881 or 8111. 
Lost: Room and mall keys for rm. 420 Carroll (NO) If found, call Peter at 6829 
Lost: Set of pictures from wallet ­please return -Randy 1735 
Lost: One gold wedding band with inscription date of Oct. 2, 1869. Lost near LeMans. For Reward, call Teresa at 4432 (SMC). 
Need ride to Miami of Ohio April 18 will share usual. Ride to Dayton Columbus Cincy or Richmond area would help. Call 41-5710 
I need 1 measley graduation ticket desperate!! Mlck 8212!!! 
Overseas -Jobs -Summer /year round. Europe, S. America Australia, Asia, Etc. All fields, $500-$1,200 monthly. Expenses paid,. Sightsee­ing. Free information write IJC, Box 52-14 Corona Del Mar, Ca. 92625 
Ride need to miami U. or Cincin­nati this weekend. Call Don 1479 
For Sale 
Olympic Ranchcoats for sale. An 
Incredible buy at $22.001 mens, 
womens sizes. Call 288-5891 even-
Charles "Hollywood" Dyer for UMDC. Chucky Is Yucky 
Volunteers needed: 
1. 
Help repaint small office-evenings. 

2. 
Turn pages for quadraplegic, 1 hr. a day. Contact Volunteer Services -7308 


Color basketball pictures still avail­able. Slam Dunks make great decoratations. Call 8932. 
Steve, Sorry I couldn't be there Wednes­day. And congratulations on Paper of the week Deirdre. 
To: Frances, Leslie, Sr. Verene, Sheila Dave, and everyone else who helped me out while I was sick. 
Thank You 
Deirdre Thank you! (Merci!) 

2. 
Kath-It was exquisite, dear. Thank you! 

3. 
Eliza, Can't believe you kept it a secret! uick recovery from your sinful weekend! Thanks. 


Roomies, Fourth nOrth & Brian, Thanks for Thursday. You're the best. Molly 
Christy, 
Thank '-,. ., ·... nt. I had a real Groo· • rry about dropping ·~·~ . .. • dipped. Bumstone Paul 
How can I take an "Admirer" who can't spell my name seriously? Deirdre Murphy 
Wishing all my best of friends a very nice day! 
Teri 

Admirer,. How was Chicago? Did you have time to see my show be.Jre you left? Hope you had as much fun in Chicago as I did at the show. K.A.F. 
CDNGRADULATIONS TO THE N.D. AND S.M.C. FORMAL COMMIT· TEES FOR A JOB WELL DONE. 00 YOU DO WEDDINGS? 
Danny Z-Man and austm Fleming: Congrats on an outstanding appear­ance :n "The Pilgrim." Your brothers in Holy Cross 


..-----------------------~-------~­
Teams honor 
'WOfllen 
by Craig Chval Sports Wn'ter 

On the eve of what may 
bec,Jme a major revolution in 
women's athletics on the Notre 
Dau1e campus, the University 
recognized its female athletes 
and their coaches in its Fifth 
Annual Awards night Monday 
evening in the Monogram 
Room. of the ACC. 

The St. Joseph Valley Club of Notre Dame presented Scholar Athlete Awards to t\l<.~ggie Lally, a three-year. starter for the Irish basketball squad, Peggy Walsh of the rennis team, fencer Kathy Mc­Cann and Tracy Blake of the AlA W Division III · Indiana state runner-up fencing team. 
Notre Dame's National Monogram Club honored Molly Cashman (basketball), Donna Carini (iield hockey), Paddy Mullen (tnwis) and Liz Bathon (fencing) as the Most Valuable Players of their respective squads. The MVP's were sel­ected by a vote of their teammates. 
Bo Scott, who will be leaving in May after graduation from Notn: Dame's Law school, after three years as Sharon Petro's assistant, initiated the Bob Scott Bench Award, presented to the Irish basketball player exhibiting the best attitude in a non-sta.lilmg role. Missy Con­boy, a )-8 sophomore forward, 
[continued on page 8] 
by Tim Pnster Sports Wn'ter 

The Fighting Irish baseball 
squad and a satisfied coach 
Tom Kelly returned home late 
Sunday evening after a 2-2 split 
over the weekend at the North­
western Invitational. 

Notre Dame alternated decis­
sions in the rain delayed tour­
ney, losing 5-0 to Illinois Tech 
on Friday, defeating North­
wetern 3-2 on Saturday and 
splitting a fair on Sunday. The 
Wildcats o Northwestern aven­
ged their Saturday afternoon 
loss with a 2-1 victory Sunday, 
but the Irish obtained a split 
with Illinois Tech with a come 
from behind 13-7 victory in the 
nightcap. 

All three teams in the round­
nJhin tournament finished with 
2-2 records. 

The Illinois Tech Hawks, led by the two-hit pitching of Paul Vaulman, blanked the Irish )-0 Friday af•ernoon. A pair of costly errors by the normally­S<,und Irish defense enabled Tech to push across five un­eamed runs in the fifth inning for the victory. 
On Saturday, led by captain Dan Voellinger's leadoff home­run in the second, the Irish boun(.ed back with a 3-2 deci­~ion over Northwestern. Bryan Smith went the distance on the mound for Notre Dame, striking out five and scattering six hits, despite inclement weather whtch extended the tournament through Sunday. 
Tuesday,April15, 1980-page 12 
Tennis team continues 'to-hot-to-handle' streak 
by Michael Ortman Associate Sports Editor 

When you're hot you're hot but this is ridiculous. 
Is this the same Notre Dame tennis team that opened the season at Michigan, taking it on the chin, 9-0, winning just one 
·set in the process? 
Is this the same team that traveled to Madison, Wisconsin just two weeks later only to fall to the seemingly superior Bad­gers, 6-3? 
Hardly. 

A glance at the season's scorecard shows that mediocre 1-2 start (a win over lowly Eastern Michigan sandwiched between the Big Ten losses) and then a 180 degree turna­round. A 7-2 win at Iowa was followed by a win over Ball State by a similar count. The Irish continued to pick up steam, rolling over nine straight foes by whooping mar-
Lee Ann Bnslawrt was one offour swimmers to achieve an gins -9-0, 8-1, and 7-2 being a/1-Amenca award from coach ·Dennzs Stark at last night's the closest contest. banquet. [photo by Greg Maurer]. --: Tht> most recent wins came 
====================================== 
Weather cancels anotherpractice 
by Craig Chval glazing of snow on the gound are sophomore Tony Hunter at
Sports Wn'ter 

in South Bend. split end, senior flanker Pete Just as they were 2-A, 2-B, Holohan, and sophomore DeanOnce again, the weatherman and 2-C last fall behind starter Masztak at tight end. . .all was the big winner yesterday, Rusty Lisch, seniors-to-be Tim three were starters in '79. .
cancelling Notre Dame's spring Koegel, Mike Courey and Greg .senior Jim Stone at tailbackfootball drills for the third time 

Knafelc are now 1-A, 1-B, and 
in a week. .temperatures 1-C in the quarterback derby .. 
never got above the upper 30s .other players heading the very 
on a ramy day that began with a tentative offensive depth chart Spring ball
Foot 

Nowll-4 and sophomore fullback John Sweeney are holding down the top spots in the backfield, although sophomore Phil Carter
Diamond men split 2-2 in tourney 
is pushing Stone very hard in 
The Irish bunched all three runs in the second inning again.st the Wildcats. Following Voellinger's homer, Valenzuela and Gre~ Rodems singled. Bar­rish sacnficed both runners into scoring position and George lams' single and an error on the left fielder permitted Valen­zuela and Rodems to score. 
In the first of two games Sunday, Northwestern reversed the one-run decision from the previous afternoon wtth a 2-1 win over the Irish. Pitcher Mike Dease was the unfortunate loser after winning his first three decisions of the year. Both Wildcat runs were unearn­the race to replace Vagased. 

Ferguson...senior guard Tim''Up until this weekend, our Huffman and tri-captain centerdefense had been extremely 'John Scully are the only return­sound," offered Kelly. "Of ing st.irters on the line, and are
course, defensive lapses occur -on every ballclub. I couldn't 
[continued on page 8]

expect us to continue at such a 
phenomonal pace. '' The Irish were limited to four hits while absorbing their 
Track team takes first 
fourth loss of the season. Rodems collected two safeties while lams and second base­man Chuck Tasch smaked one 
in Arkansas relays 
each. A triple by Valenzuela scored courtesy runner Scott 
by Matt Huffman 

Siler for Notre Dame's only 
Sports Wnter 
[continued on page 10] 
My ... what a difference 12) 

points can make! Four years ago Coach Joe Piane's track
Bookstore action 

team travelled to the Arkansas State Relays and scored just'Wet' tournament continues four team points. Last weekend the Irish returned to Arkansas, scoring 129 points and tying the 
by Frank LaGrotta 
home club for first place.
Sports Wn'ter 
The key to the outstanding performance was depth, accor­The rain-soaked Bookstore Basketball tournament continued 
ding to Piane. 
yesterday with first round action concluding on all three sites. 
''Everyone contributed. We 

Tournament comissioner, Rob Simari, revealed that two teams 
had only two first-place fini­
were disqualified because one of their players had played for 
shes, but our fourth, fifth and
another team. 

sixth place finishes gave u:-the 
"Both jam and Spacemen and The Untalented Five had pl~yers 
victory." 
on their rosters that h7.d flayed for anot_her team,"_s~id Sir1_1ari. "It 
The most vivid example of
isn't something !like(.() uo but the rule IS very explicit and lt has to 
Notre Dame strength came in 
be enforced.'. 

the 10,000-meter run. Charlie 
Today's action 'Viii feature key se~ond round games i~cluding 
Fox, Matt Cato, John Filosa
the tournament's top seed, Defendmg Chumps, featunng Tom 
and Rick Martinez finished 
"old Guy" Sudkamp and Bill Hanzlik on Bookstore 9 at 5:30. 
within a minute of one another
"We're expecting bigger crowds as the tournament moves into 
at second, third, fourth and
the later rounds," said Simari. "All in all I'd have to say 
fifth place respectively. 
~verything is running very smooth!y at this poi_nt.. Other than th,~ 
Notre Dame captured three
disqualifications, there really hasn t been any mctdents of note. 
places in the 1 )00-meter run. 
this weekend as Tom Fallon's squad picked on visiting Bellar­mme, Bowling Green, Northern Illinois and DePaul by a com­bined 35-1 count, improving the season record to 10-2 going into this afternoon's clash with Pur­due (7-7) on the Courtney Courts. 

"You really can't single out one reason for the turna­round," says senior captain Carlton Harris. "It's been a combination of things. We've been playing at home since the first four matches and that's a big help. Everyone's improved quite a bit over the last two months and we've just come together as a team." 
Harris elaborated on the team aspect of the recent Irish sue­cess. "We've grown a lot closer in the last few weeks, too. Traveling together, living toge­ther in Mexico on the spnng trip, encouraging each other more and more at matches-it's all helped a real team effort. The team spirit and unity are the best I've seen on any team, 
anyplace.''
The Irish will need a colossal team effort if they are to survive the next two weeks as the relentless 1980 schedule rages on. Following this afternoon's match with visiting Purdue, Notre Dame will play host to Big Ten powerhouse Indiana (12-1) tomorrow. Both matches 
· are scheduled for 3 p.m. 
The Irish will be trying to avenge last year's 6-3 loss at Bloomington in tommorrow's showdown with the Hoosiers. That Indiana win snapped an eight-match Notre Dame win­ning streak, the longest victory string of the 20-8 campaign. 
Another 20-win season IS still the pot of gold at the end of the rainbow for the 1980 edition, but the Irish can afford only one loss if they are to reach that goal. With just 11 matches remaining and such top-notch teams as Indiana, Northwestern, Ohio State and Hawaii on the schedule, the task will not be an 
easy one. 
Joining Novak as the only first place finishers was JayMiranda. Miranda captured the 800-me­ter run at 1:52 with Chuck Aragon . 3 seconds behind in 
the runner-up spot. 
''We were able to get a _lot of 

points in the middle distance 
events," noted Piane, "but we 
were also fortunate on that 
<>orne other teams were able to 
knock-off Arkansas State in 
some of their better events. 
· Senior co-captains Miranda 
and Perry Stowe (who took third 
in the pole vault) claim the meet 
was indicative of the team's 
character. 
''This is proof that we've 

risen from a few individual 
performers to a team," said 
Miranda. 
"Our effort Saturday is the 

result of a lomg winter of 
workouts gearsed toward this 
time of year. This is the first our. 
team really got together," 
added Stowe. 
The Irish take to the road 

April18-19 for the Illini Classic. 






