
... Irish extra -.Page 7 

VOL. XIV, NO. 100 
an mdependem student newspaper serving notre dame and saint mary's THURSDAY, MARCH 6, 1980 

Republicans attack Carter as Mock Convention begins 
by Lynne Daley StaffReporter 
The Governor of Indiana and the former Governor of Alaska warned a crowd of nearly 1000 delegate.> here last night, of the far-reaching detrimental consequence.> of the "inadequate"·and ''weak'' Carter administration policies. Their remarks came a.> the two politician.>, along with University President Fr. Theodore Hesburgh, opened the 1980 Notre Dame Republican Mock Convention amidst a background of traditional convention hoopla in Stepan Center last night. 
Walter J. Hickel, Secretary of the Interior in the· Nixon Administration and the former Governor of Alaska told the crowd of delegate.> and convention officials, that "war is on the mind of everyone in the nation today.'' 
Election 1980 -The Campus View 
In his keynote address, Indiana Governor Otis Bowen told the crow~ that s~rter administratio~ policies have given the nation nothmg but madequacy, confuston, and failure." He accused the administration'.> econ?~ic _policies and questioned the nation's preparedness to mobtltze m the case of war if current Carter poliCies continue. 
F~. Hesburgh called for "zeal," not "apathy" in his invocation whtch opened the Mock Convention. "Weakeness invite.> war, and President Carter has let u.> get weak,'' former Governor Hickel said last night. · 
He noted that the threat ofwar can be used by the government a.> "a. co~~enient cover to hide the domestic bankruptcies of a natton. 
Hickel al.>o pointed out that historically, the threat of war has ~een used to check spiralling inflation rate.> by creating jobs, and to concentrate the thought.> of a nation and make it thmk and act a.> one.'' 
Hickel singled out the energy crises a.> the most serious problem 
[continued on page 5r 

Goose 's raidaftermath 

University officials meet with police 
by Mary Fran Callahan Senior StaffReporter 

As an aftermath of the 
February 23 bar raid at 
Goose'.>, University and Stud­
ent Government officials met 
with police to discus.> {i.lhat 
Student Body President Bill 
Roche yesterday called a prob­
lem of "making sure no one 
gets hurt'' in a confrontation 
with law enforcement officials. 
Dean of Students James Roemer, Security officials Glenn Terry agd Rex Rakow, and Judicial Coodinator Jim O'Hare abo attended the meeting which was re9ue.>ted by the South Bend pollee. Roche also encouraged discussion of the off campus crime problem which has generated tncreasing concern. 
According to Roche, the 
police are now taking "initia­
tives" to remedy the crime 
situation, but Roche declined to 
specify those initiatives--saying 
that making them public would 
defeat their purpose. 
Roche also explained that 
police must respond when 
South Bend residents complain 
about the noise and general 
atmosphere created by students· 
en route to and from the local 
bar.;;. Though South Bend 
police do not initiate bar raids-­
the Alcohoiic Beverage ·.Commission does this--they are responsible for controlling 
c'towds and maintaining order in' the event of a bar raid. 
\'We want to make sure everybody keeps cool. I don't want anyone to get hurt,'' Roche satd yesterday. He said the meeting may be viewed as a preca\}tionary measure for studenp as well as the officials' safety to the future. 
Roche said the University'3 strict party guideline.> could be a factor for the large amount of underage drinkers patronizing the bar.>. He said he has mentioned this at Campus Life Council meetings. The council currently ha3 a proposal to relax party_ rules before the admin­Btratton. 
Glenn Terry, security director and former police officer, said that students' safe­ty can never be guaranteed at bar raids. "I don't think you can ever make sure that anyone doesn't get hurt," he com­mented Terry stressed volun­tary compliance with Indiana's 21 drinking age. 
"People who do not belong there (the bars) should not be there," he stated. He said students are more aggresive in,situations like bar raids and tend toJ·eopardize themselves. 
"Un er the cloak of darkness a .Person feels he can get away wtth things more easily," Terry said. "Students do not realize how they can endanger their futures. 
thing their parents and idealsHe cited the fact that a police are," he said. 
record can hamper job Though the University is notopportunities --in particular legally responsible for studentsthose with federal agencies. 
when they are off campus,Reiterating his position that Terry said University officialsno one under 21 should drink, are ''concerned" for .students. 
Terry said he did not see In the .>ituation of a bar raid,relaxed party guidelines as a he said officials fear the police' 3solution to the problem. 
option of releasing dogs to"If we let everybody drink, control unruly crowds. 
we would be violating the law. We would like to see students 
[continued on page 3]
grow up to aspire to be every-
Civiletti 
warns about info leaks 

WASHINGTON (AP) -Con­demning "the flood of leaks" from criminal investigations, Attorney General Benjamin R. Civiletti warned Justice De­partment employees in two special meetings yesterday that he will fire anyone caught disclosing confidential infor­mation. 
In one of the more extensive and dramatic efforts in recent years to stern leaks to the press, Civiletti appeared twice in the Justice Department's Great Hall tQ deliver a 25-rninute speech to about 800 employees. 
In addition, he said videotapes and transcripts of his remarks were being sent to department offices around the country. 
He said his efforts were spark­ed by the leak of the FBI's Abscam investigation of politi­cal corruption and by two other leaks. Etght members of Con­gress have been named by sources as being implicated in the Abscarn case, although no charges have been brought. 
The two other cases are FBI 
investigations of insurance rac­
kets and organized crime, dub­
bed Brilab and Pendorf respec­
tively. There, too, the names of 
potential defendants have been 
published before any charges 
have been lodged. 

Civiletti detailed the harm that 
leaks cause, methods that re­
porters use to get them and 
ways of deflecting inquiries by 
reporters. But he emphasized 
that he felt it proper for 
~eporter~ to try to get such 
mforrnatton. 

"If a department employee leaks confidential information from an investigation, that em­ployee, iffound, will lose their position,'' Civiletti said. ''Ifnot found, at least that employee will lose his or her honor and self-respect.'' 
Civiletti has already begun an 
[continued on page 5] 
J1fghanrefugeesj7eeing 
Pakistan refuses military aid 
ISLAMABAD Pakistan (AP) ­Government official3 rejected a 
U.S. offer of military and economic aid designed to pro­tect Pakistan'.> 1200 mile bor­der with Afghanistan, and a­bout 130,000 Afghan refugees were reported fleeing toward Pakistan following four days of pounding by Soviet bombers. 
The report about the refugee movement carne from a Paris based group called Internation­al Le~gu~ forth~ Ri~ht of Man. It ..>atd 1t got tts mforrnation from one of it.s o~servers in Pe3hawar, Pakistan, near the border between Afghanistan and Pakistan. 
"Women and children have been slaughtered and poison gas has been used," during the bombings in Konar Privince in easternAfghani.stan, the group claimed. Rebel leader.;; said hundreds were killed durin~ the bombing attack.>, but netther their claims nor those of the Paris group could be confirmed independently. 
Pakistan has already taken in more than 500,000 refugees from Afghani.;;tan since the first of three Marxist governments came to power there .,some 23 months ago. 
In Washin~ton, the State De­partment satd the United State.> has expressed its concern to Soviet authorities over conti­nuing report3 that Soviet forces have been u3ing poi.son gas in Afghanistan. Department spokesman Hodding Carter said the United State.> ha.s raised the i3sue with the U.N. Commission on Human Right.;;. 
He said the United States had received "no formal notifica­tion" of Pakistan'.> decision to turn down the U.S. offer of $400 million in military and economic aid over a two-year period. 
But Agha Shahi, an advisor to the Pakistani President said, . ''Pakistan has specifically dis­associated itself from any U.S. initiative to introduce the rele­vant legislation in the American Congress." 




News in brief 
Iran hostages stagnate, while­militants coldshoulder UN 
(AP)-The U.S. Embassy militants in Tehran rebuff~d _a new bid yesterday for a meeung between t~e U.N. commBston on Iran and the American hosta~es, _de.'iplte_Ayatoll~h Ruhol_lah Khomeini '.'> reported authonzauon of lt. Iraman ~ffi~Ials insisted the meeting would take place. After. a mi~~Ight meeting with the five~man U.N. panel, Foreign Mmister Sadegh Ghotbzadeh satd he hoped to ann?unce on Thu~sday the time of meeting ordered by the governmg Rebovoluuona­ry Council. 
Colombian hostages hopeful, gov 't dealers offersolution 
BOGOTA, Colombia. (AP;, -Government negotiators offered a deal yesterday to the tt-rrorists holding U.?. Amba.>sa~or Diego Hsencio and about two do:~en other d!J?lomats whiCh was believed to include safe conduct out of the country, sources close to the government said. 
Mail hostagesgather dust, captor wants Playboys return 
DEARBORN, Mich (AP) -J. Kenneth Geo~ge is. holding some "hostages" -16 pteces of other peop~e s mat! se_nt to his home by mistake. ~e· II surrender ~he mat!, he says, tf the 
U.S. Po.>tal Service wtll come up w1th the December and March i.;;.>ue.> of Playboy magazine th<~t George says should have been delivered to hi.> post office box here. What really 1rked the 38-year-old businessman was the stateme~t ''we don't make mistakes" by postal cle~b confro~ted wtth the charge of lost Playboys. George satd the cop_tes that have gotten through were "dog-eared" and obvtously leafed through thoroughly. 


Weather 
lncrea.>ing clf1'1•rlint>..;s todav with a 40 percent chance of precipitation late this after~oon. _Htghs near 30 degree~. 70 percent chance of snow toryght_wuh ste~dy t~mperarure.,. Rain and snow tomorrow, htghs tn the m•d 30->. 
1-3 p.m. STUDENT PHOTOGRAPHY EXHIBITION IN ISIS GALLERY 
3:25 p.m. SEMINA~ "a topological de.>cription of az~~tropic mixtures," dr. m1chael f. doherty, u _of f!la.,., 356 FITZPATRICK HALL spon. by chemical engmeenng 
4-5 p.m. LECTURE ."~n rights in the 3rd world," bishop franci.;co clave.; ·'·l·· spon. by amne.>ty mt., center for experiential learning and college of b. a. INLIB AUD 
6:30p.m. MEETING leaders training class spon. by campus crusade for christ in LEWIS HAU REC ROOM 
7 p.m. PHOTOGRAPf-:IY ~LASS "basic fund~mentals_ in photography (of .>pee~al mterest to student.> travellmg abroad) douglas tyler, smc art faculty 232 MOREAU HAU .;pon. ~y art dept, free 
7 p.mtMOCK CONVENTION campaign _talks by gov. h~rold sta.s.>eli of minn. & dr. george crane, father of candtdate philip crane of ill., followed by platform debate. STEPAN 
CENTER 
7 & 9 p.;n. MOVIE "thejhiladelphia story," spon. by sa_?b, ~frt o('hepburn weeken film se~r:3, CARROLL HALL .,me 
7 & 10 p.m. FILM "the greatest show in earth" ENGR. AUD. spon. by .>tudent unwn 
7:30 p.m. JAPANESE FILM SERIES "harp of burma" WASHINGTON HALL $1 
8 p.m. CONCERT .>t. mary'.; c_ollege wind ensemble LITTLE 1 HEA TRE .>me spor1. by musiC depr. 
8 p.m. BENGAL BOUTS A.C.C. ARENA 
8 p.m. ND/SMC THEATRE "teeth & .smiles" O'LAUGHLI:~ AUD. rocket.> $1. & $3 · 
8:15p.m. CONCERT notre dame collegiu~ musicum GREAT HALL O'SHAUGHNESSY spon. by musiC dept 


Hyde seeks 
Reagan nomrnatton 
Congressman Henry J. Hy~e ofIllinois [picturedat nght] will speak on behalf of Republican candidate Ronald Rea~an at the Mock Convention tonight. 
Bo~ in Chica~o in 1924, Hyde has served h1s home state in government since 1967, when he began his seven-year career a,-; Illinois State Rep­resentative of the 12th District. He became Majority Leader of the 77th General Assembly in 1971-72. Hyde is now serving his third term in the U.S. House of Representatives and is .a member of the House J udt­ciary Committee and the H?use Committee on Bankwg, Finance and Urban Affairs. 
Hyde received his B.S. degree from Georgeto\_Vn University in 1947, andhtsJ.D. 
in 1949 from Chicago.'s Loyola University School of La~. J:ie had attended Duke Umverstty in the Navy V-12 program, 1943-44, and Notre Dame as a midshipman in 1944. 
Hyde was commissioned ensign in the USNR ~nd served in the South PaCific, New Guinea and the Philippines until August, 1946. 
TheO 
Night Editor: Ryan "Me, Sexist?'' Ver Berkmoes Assist. Night Editor: Deir­dre "Ad Astra" Murphy Copy Editor: Kathy Casey Layout Staff St~;e ~w~nk, 
-"lei! "Found It 0 Bnen, ~a thy Vick, Katie ''The Oth­~r One'' Durkin lllews Editor: Mark Rust Editorial Layout: Colleen ·'Lost it" Sloan, Betsy ''Trainee" Desjardins Features Layout: Sal Granata Sports Layout: The ever­lovely Beth Huffman, the not-as-lovely Mark Perry Typists: Beth Huffman, Michelle Kelleher, Kathy Festin, Nancy Russel EMTs: Paul "Speedy-fin­gers" Selauko, Scoop "Co~­sider Gerald Ford for Presi­dent'' Sullivan Proofreader: Bruce Oakley ND Day Editor: JohnIJane . Doe SMC Day Editor: Cece Bal· iles AdDesign: Bub Rudy, Molly O'Neil Supplement Layout: Ayatol-· lah Mullaney · Photographer: Dave Rum­bach, Tom Jackman (repre': senting Phil Crane ) , 
Guest Appearances: Mary 
''who was drunk on stole!) grain" Silvi, Margaret "who's taking me to the formal" Kruse, Mike Ort-· man, Cindy "10-W-40" · Kliros 
Our 1OOth Paper! 
The Observer [US~ 5!11 920[ Is published Monday through Friday IX· cept during exam and viCitlln plrilds. The Observer is publishld by till studenll of Notre Dlllll IIIII Saint Mary's Clllegl. Subscriptila may bl purcllalld lor $20 lllf yur lS11 111r sematlrjlrom The Observer, P.O. blx 
0. Nllrt D11111, lnclilna 41556. s.c.ct class-: paid, Notrl D11111, In­diana . 
The Observer ir 1 lllllllilr of 1111 Auociatld Pms. All rtprtdiiCtlln rights .... rtllrvld. 

Thursday, March 6, 1980 -page 2 
thur -mar 6-7pm to 3om 


3DRAFTS .00 
fri -mar 7 2pmto7pm 
ffiOLSEN GOLDEN 75cents 




sat-mat8 Budweiset on special 
MASS follow-ed by 

supper 
every_FRIDAY at the 
7HE PHILAI>EL PHIA STOrf THUtJ.J MARCH 6, 7!'1 
PAT ANl> MIKE 
FRI., MA~CH 11 1,'1, II 
. · ADAM'S Rl5 
lAt, MAkCH O, 1,'1,11 IN CAR20LL HALL SMC.. 



1~------­
The Observer Thursday, March 6, 1980 -page 3 
Conservative Bush edges Anderson in Massachussetts 
NEW YORK (AP) -In Mass­
achusetts, George Bush was the 
man in the middle. 
An Associated Press-NBC 
news poll of voters showed that 
Ronald Reagan bested Bush 
among Republican voters with 
conservative views, while doing 
as well as him among older 
GOP voters. 
And Rep. :John Anderson 
took away the ballots of those 
with more liberal views on the 
issues, along with the better 
educated and the younger 
voter. 
But Bush's support from this 
wide variety of groups gave him 
a tiny margin of victory over 
Anderson in Tuesday's 
balloting, with Reagan only a 
few thou3and votes behind. 
Interviews with more than 
2200 GOP voters outside polling 
places were the basis for the 
AP-NBC News poll. 
One way to analyze the re3ults 
is to look at the GOP voters 
positions on the is3ues. Take 
the proposed Equal Rights 
Amendment: 
Reagan's voters split 46-37 
against the ERA. Next came the Bush supporters, who favored . the ERA by 54-35. And then were the Anderson backers, Iwho favored the amendment by 1 an overwhelming 77-16 margin. 
The re3t were undecided in 
each ca3e. 
Anderson and Bush support 
the ERA. Reagan opposes it. · 
Or take nuclear power. 
Those who voted . in the 
Massachusetts GOP primary 
split 47-42 in favor of imposing 
a moratorium on building more 
nuclear power plants until 
safety questions are resolved, 
even in the face of possible 
energy shortages. 
Anderson backers support 
such a moratorium by a 63-27 
edge. 
But Reagan backers oppose 
one by a narrow 47-39 margin. 
Bush backers take a similar 
stance -opposing such a mora­
torium by 52-37. 
These issue breakdowns 
reflect the basic political orient­
ation of each man's supporters. 
Reagan got 38 percent 9f the 
Massachusetts GOP con­
servative vote, with Bush 
taking 34 percent. Anderson 
got 17 percent of thei..· ballots. 
Bush came out on top among 
moderates, with 39 percent of 
' I
-----------------------------------------------------·-------· you are cordially invited to the 1980 

BIRTHDAY BUSTER 
.. a celebration for all... . especially for ye' who have been borne in march ~ 
FEA TTJRING MUSIC BY 

· · · · · · · · MANHATTEN· · · · · · · · · ·. 
············ ·PROJECT,........_~ ..... . 
·· mon.marchlO
dd. 

vegetabl_ e bu tes · 8:00pm to 2:00am $5.00.-all the beer · . . · ·and mixed drinks you can consume 
21 ID requireJ nd/smc private party 
After primary 


Candidates showcolors 
BOSTON (AP) -George Bush gained a hairbreadth victory over Rep. John Anderson yes­terday morning in the Massa­chusetts presidential primary election. Senate Republican leader Howard Baker quit the race, and former President Gerald R. Ford said the contest for the GOP nomination is "a wide open ballgame'' he may yet enter. 
Because Anderson had taken the lead, several news organi­zations declared him the win­
ner,  only  to  pull  back  when  
lat  tallies  showed  no  one  
with  a  conclusive  lead.  The  

Associated Press was among them, having given Anderson the victory in early evening. 
Ford said the razor margins by which Bush won Massachusetts and Ronald Reagan edged An­derson in Vermont were ''a clear indication to me that there is no consensus'' among Re­publicans. 
He said there won't be such a consensus before the GOP na­tional convention, and thus forecast just the kind of cam­paign stalemate that would give him an opening for another White House bid. 
While Ford hinted in Lauder­hill, Fla., that he may get in, Baker conceded in Washington that he is out. 
''It's pretty clear the cam­paign isn't going anywhere," he said after lagging far behind the leaders in the first five Republican campaign tests. 
While the Repubhcans ran to virtual dead heats in the two Tuesday prima,ries, . President Carter and Sen. Edward M. Kennedy won Democratic land­slides. 
Kennedy won his home Mas­sachusetts primary with 65 percent of the vote to Carter's 29 percent. The president swept Vermont's non-binding primary with 75 percent of the 
[continued on page 13] 

, , ,Police 
[contt'nued from page 1] 
He said as far as he knew no dogs had been at Goose's. As a former police officer, Terry explained that policemen can­not release dogs without an order from a command officer. 
On the problem ofoff campus crime, Terry confirmed recent police initiatives which he deemed. "ongoing efforts" to combat the problem. However, he declined to comment on those initiatives for the same reason as Roche. 
Roche has asked police to work next year with the Off Campus Commission to' inform students what they can do to prevent theft in their houses and apartments. According to Roche, police are co-operative and willing to meet with stud­ents. 
The same group of officials and students will meet again on Monday to continue their dis­cussions in an effort to resolve these concerns. 
Mock Convention schedule 
THURSDAY, MARCH 6, 1980 
3•00 P.M.  ~·~s.  Cissy  Sa!<.er  arrives  ND  Campus  (tent.  conf.)  
3•30 P.M.  Hm·:1rd 3a:.:C!r Press Conference: l1s. Cissy Baker (Sen. Baker s only daughter and broadcast jour­nalist) Llo,vd BurkE: and t1ark Lvnch (Notre Dame for Baker Chairmen) MorriSrnn--on campus.  
4,30 P.M.  Ren.  ~enrv  Hvc!e  arrives ND  car;~pus.  
s.qo P.M.  Rca0.an for President Rcce¥tion: Rep. Henr¥ Hyde (R 1_11. 6th ;md sponsor o the controvers1al Hyde Anend:nent of govt. abortion funding) Gr~ Fall~·; and Brian Anselr:1an (Notre Dame for Reagat Chairr.~en) LaForttfne Ballroom (2nd Floor) on campus.  
7•00  P.M.  Convention Opening.  Stepan Center  on  Campus.  
7•30  P.M.  ~  Ca;:1oai:n Addrcsses:l) For Gov. Ronald Reagan of Californi:i: l!.S. Rep. Henry Hyde (R-Ill. 6th); • Gov. Harold Stassen of Hi:1nesota; for gongres~­man Phil Crane of Illinois; Dr. George Crane (Indiana ne~·lspaper columnist and RC'?. Crane's father); for Sen. Howard Baker of Tennessee: :·!s. Cissv Baker (broadcast journalist and only daughter of Sen. Baker).  
a.so P.M.  AVailable  for  IntcrvieVJ:  Gov.  Harold  Stassen  


For further information Write: Father Andre Leveille. CSC Box 541 Notre Dame. Indiana 46556 
SENIOR BAR SENIOR BAR 

serves LUNCH 


, 

j 
j 
•j 
their vote. Anderson got 33 percent and Reagan 19 percent. 
Anderson also took the vote of those who had college degrees or graduate degrees. He got 41 percent of their vote and Bush took 34 percent. Reagan got 18 percent. 
But among those with only a high school diploma or less, Reagan got 39 percent of the vote, Bush 27 percent and Anderson 21 percent. 
Reagan also did best among older voters and Anderson the best among the younger group. 
As with all sample suryeys, the results of the the AP-NBC News polls can vary from the opinions of all Massachusetts voters because of chance varia­tions in the sample. 
For polls with more than 2200 interviews, like the poll of the GOP the results should vary no more than 3 percentage points either way because of sampling error. 
The Observer Thursday, March 6, 1980 -page 4 

tSOPHOMORES AND FRESHME 





Philosophy: Meet Your Majors 
Sunday, March 9 8:00PM 
'\. / 

LIBRARY LOUNGE
' /

REFRESHMENTS SERVED 
v 

further information, contact Profs. David Solomon or Richard Foley Room 337 O'Shag, or call7534 
DILLORITIS 
WILL SUPPOB! 
H 
. :'. 

... :: . : /::·: ;: / :~: _: 

DAN FLYNN VICTOR ROMANO 


by sitting in the GREEN section. 


everyone welcome, especially GIRLS 
paid for by flynn brothers and sisters, inc. 
Sexismdenounced 




Letter-writer takes flak 
by Chip Block • 
The author of an Observer editorial letter which refuted charges of campus sexism, told a small group yesterday that, ''this thing has been blown out 
In rt:sponse to Gerry's state­plained about the policies of the ment that there are more school as laid down by Father important issues in the world Theodore Heiiburgh, Univeristy than sexism, one woman said, president, and Father Edmund ''If there is iiexism and raciiim, Joyce, Executive vice­then there will be no peace in president. the world.'' One woman complained 
about Hesburgh's alleged statement made recently that Notre Dame graduates must be able to support their wife and children. Another participant 3tated that she knew of men and women who are doing the 
There was great disagree­same job on campus, but the ment on the seriousness of the men received more pay. sexiiim problem at Notre Dame. The meeting was concluded At one point, a participant 3aid with a discussion about minor that he believed that the poor sports and hockey. The group 
social life at Notre Dame can be 3eemed to agree that the prob­attributed to sexism. Another lems with minor sports are person said that many prof­being dumped on Title IX. 
essors make sexist comments in · O'Connor stated that she class. "One profeiisor 3aid that believed the reason the bill has women cannot balance a check­taken the blame is because 
book," she 3aid. fllOSt people do not understand Many of the women com-it. 
Women's conference produces mixedfeelings 

Gerry said that he believed there are more important problems in ¢.e world that need the attention of the Notre Dame students 
of proportion,'' during an open discussion in the Library Lounge. The meeting, spon­sored by the ND Women's Organization, was called "Is Donald Gerry Right?'' 
Gerry, who wrote the editor­ial letter, said that he believed there are more important prob­lems in the world that need the attention ~)f the Notre Dame students. 
Gerry's strongest complaints concerned the posters used to advertise the open discussion. He strongly objected to his name being used without his permi3sion and accused the women's organization of mis­quoting him on the posters. 
Mary Ann O'Connor, pres­ident of the organization, apologized for misquotin~ him and said that it was a mtstake made while printing the signs. 
Gerry also asked why he was not sent a personal invitation telling him about the dis­cussion. In response, a mem­ber of the organization pointed out that the meeting held an open invitation to everybody. 

· 
by Clare Padgett 
The three-day conference en­titled "Woman: Signifier or Signified" sponsored by the College of Arts and Letters came to a close yesterday, leaving some controversy con­cerning its general success. 
The conference focused on the evolving role of women in 

CLIMB THE LETTERS TO SUCCESS. 
Success rs a long way up Bur offer takrng lhe trrsl slep. lhe second one comes 80Sl9f 
Arr Force ROTC can help you climb thai ladder by provrdrng a helprng hand dur· rng college It can enrrch your college years and also ­help you wrlh some of !hose school expenses ol the some 11me 
You con compere lor a IWo. lhree or lour·yeor scholorshrp lhal pays stOO a monlh lor college expenses. whrle rl prcks up lhe lob lor olllurlron. lob lees and books 
The AFROTC program has many exlros Like lhe Flrghllnslruclron PrO<Jrom (FIP). where you qualify lor Arr Force llrghllrornrng lhrough a screenHlg process and rece1ve mtroductory llighl rnslruchon You·ll also learn aboul leade<shrp. managemenr. All Force hrs· tory and frOdlflons. and much more lhrough AFROTC The p<Og<am p<e· pares coders to lake command offer lhey graduale and me commrs· s1oned as A1r Force off1cers 
The lisl goes on Check rt oul lodoy See rl you con clrmb lhe leners to success and meet the challenge and occepl lhe commrlmenl You II trnd lhol lhe Arr Force rs a greol way ro serve your counlry. and lhal AFROTC rs a great way lo gel IM<e hom here 
for more info: contact Capt. Davis at 283-6634 
Gateway too great way of life. 

the arts. The program was divided into the three segments of film and theater, dance and visual art, and was held in the Center for Continuing Educa­tion. The conference format included lectures, exhibitions, 
films and seminars. 
According to Moira Marti Geoffrion, chairman of the con­ference, the program was an exploratory one for future con­ferences of the same type. Geoffrion said that she was pleased with its outcome. 
Associate Professor of French Anne Lacombe did not express similar satisfaction. In a letter to the editor of The Observer, Lacombe challenged conference organizers with the questions: "Where are the women? Who are they? Are there women?'' 
In her' criticism of Monday's conference activities, Lacombe referred to the ''vacuity of the content and the vacuum of the container." She wrote that there was a total of thirteen participants on Monday, and only three visitors. 
"Artists, intellectuals, crit­ics, students, teachers, when!• are you?," Lac om be de­manded. "Not at the confer­ence. 
"Because the conference was put together in two months, it was not highly publicized, and we were not expecting a large turn-out," Geoffrion explained. ''The response to the first two days was rather small, yet the people attending the confer­ence were thrilled. The speak­ers were excellent, and we hope to repeat the conference on a larger scale next year, with more publicity." 
SAINT mARY'S REPORTERS mEETING 


tonight at 6:30 
ALL REPORTERS mUST ATTEND NEW REPORTERS WELCOm F. CALL mARGIE AT 4161 


Grecian Cuisine specializin!( .in Greek Gyros 
King Prime llib 220z and up  $9.95  
Queen Prime Bib 16 oz and up  $7.95  
Surf and !urf smothered in pampered . lemon and  $7.95  


These meals include: CUP butter mushrooms OF SOUP, SALAD, LOAF BREAD & BUTTER. Our LUNCHEON SPECIALS appetizer, .c-~gonaki [Fla­SERVED DAILY ming Greek Cheese] served Fvening Dining 
·compliments of the house 
Mon. thru Sat.
with dinner for 2. 
1-------------------------------------------------~ 

NOW OPEN SUNDAYS 4:30-11 For Dining and Cocktails 
. 

The Observer Thursday, March 6, 1980 -page 5 
... Mock Convention 
[continued from page 1] 
facing America today. "We're only short of energy because we are short of leadership,'' he said. The solution to the energy problem, according to Hickel, must be found within the United States. He cited large reserves of tar sands, coal and oil shale that remain untapped due to environmental concerns. 
'The greening of America may, if we follow it too far, lead to the reddening of the Mideast,'' he said. 
"We have not run out of energy," Hickel stated. "We have run out of imagination and leadership. Is that any reason to go to war?'' 
Hickel proposed a )-step plan to achieve prosperity without war. First, he would call for a strengthening of the country's moral fiber. To this end, he advocated readmitting prayer to public schools. "We have got to get back to the well being of the majority. Let's put God back in the schools." 
Secondly, Hickelstre:Ssed the importance of the family unit. "We must rediscover the strength of the family in order to become a nation of one," he said. 
He also asked for an increase in self-discipline among Americans. "Total permissiveness results only in slavery," he said. 
Hickel then called for a stronger economy. An increased level of production is necessary, hs said, to increase the wealth of the nation. "Wealth can only be produced. The government isn't the answer because it can only p.t;.oduce money, not wealth, and this weakens the dollar for all of us," he added. 
Finally, Hickel asked Americans to understand their environ­ment. "We can clean up our countryside and still produce energy that will lift our country out of its slavery to OPEC," he said. 
Bowen anticipated Hickel's remarks, concentrating his criticisms on Carter's economic, energy, and defense policies. 
In the area of national defense, Bowen cited the individual ready reserve which is at less than half its authorized strength according to Bowen. 
''This is one of the ker element.> require~ for early mobilization and early deployment m advance of addmonal manpower that would not be available until the processes of con:Scripti~n were put in place," he said. 
Also, "the intelligence gathering capabilities of the United States have been whittled to the point that our effectiveness in this area is open to question,'' Bowen said. 
According to Bowen, allies of the United States may now be reluctant to share their information ''because they fear it might be rompromised.''. 
Bowen aliio attacked Carter's economic policies. "Our inflation rate has gone from roughly 5 percent whenGeraldFord left office, to over 13 percent today," he said. The cause of this trend, Bowen said; is a "government that continues to spend in excess of its income." A Republican in office, he added, would curb defici 
spending and begin to bring the budget back into balance. 
Bowen accused the predominantly-Democratic Congress of "selling out" the American people on the subject of energy. He cited the recent conference committee report on the· Windfall Oil Profits tax as "doing little or.nothing to solve the .energy crisis facing the nation.'' . ·-­
Bowen su~gested that the most important issue facing the next President ts that of national security. "We must make the volunteer army work and restore o.1r military manpower to its fully authorized levels," he stressed. ' 
.In the energy field, Bowen proposed a combination of ''conservation and production and utilization of alternate fuels to end our dependence on unstable nations.'' 
''The incumbents have failed,'' Bowen said. ''It is time to replace them with a new generation of vigorous Republicans." 
According to Bowen, the 1980 campaign represents "a unique opportunity'' for the Republican party to provide the leadership that is necessary to resolved the nation's problem 

... Leaks 
[continued from page 1] 
investigation under Richard Blumenthal, U.S. attorney for Connecticut, to locate the source of the leaks, and he is reviewing procedures to pre­vent further leaks. 
He said no employee had the excuse .of not knowing the rules against leaking confidential in­
formation because his prede­
cessor, Griffin Bell, had dis­tributed the regulation on July 
2 ~~~?:the thought 99.9 per­cent of department emplor.ees obey the regulations, Civdetti 
said, ''I condemn severely
those few who have caused these leaks and violated the ~~~-~?at has been placed in 
PASQUALE 



RULLI'S PIZZA 
WE DELIVER TO ND AND smc FRI AND SAT TILL 1am, sun untilll.. 

SPECIAL OFFER--....-.---. 
838 Pottage Ave. 


232-1883 ------­
rewrcrewrcre1rcrewrcr BOWIRGr CLUB mee1iing 1ihurs. ­

6 march , 117:30 pm 
-
Lal'or1iun.e Aud. 

11cre1rcre1rcre1rcre., 

I 
,r 

-------------••
I must use t hIs coupon for 

I

1 Jl.OO OFF LARGE PI.ZZA
1 I 
141n./31tem pizza only 
I

I usual price Is 16.00 
I


I this weekend only, free lltte of pop with 
I 

,___ any large pizza ___.. 



• 
> 

j 



Editorials 
Thursday, March 6, 1980 -page 6 

P.O.BoxQ 
The Anderson difference 
Dear Editor: 
In his article of Feb. 29, Mi­chael Onufrak state.> accuratt"ly that mo.>t candidates are in agreement over the wording of the 1980 ND Mock Conventior• platform. However, we take great pride in pointing out that our candidate, joh11 B. Ander­son, _stands apart from the rest. 
There was lirrle debate last Thursday over whether or not Notre Dame should support tht· -1Pe~pg of billi~n.> of dollar.; on o""'J five mthtary boon· doggie,, mentioned in the plat.. form. Yet Onuft:ak did point out that there was a dt.>.>enting opinion--Anderson's. For Jvhn 
. Ander.>on i.> the only candidate who is re.spon.>ible enough to .state that it is u.sele.s.> to engage in what will be only one of many more round.> of a continuing unrestricted arms race. An­derson know.> that a .stronger defen.;;e is nece.:;.sary, but call.> for an adequate increase in conventional weaponry and na­val .str_ength to deter Soviet expan.swn. 
Along with Ander.>on, the other candidate..> call for an increa.>e in domestic producti­vity to balance the budget. Yet th~ eight other.> plan to plunge the. bonuses of American.>' more efficient work into missile .system.:., .submarines and neu­tron '·bombs rather than on better government, roads, health care, or .>chool.s. Priori­ties are out of order--but not only whfn it come.> down to defen,:;e. 
John Anderson is the only candidate to come up with any kind of program to reduce American dependence on fo­reign o;I. The Platform Com­mittee .saw this and wisely tncluded a recommendation of Anderson's 50-50 plan. With­out offerin~ any alternati.ve, the other candtdates have criflbzed the idea, preferring to tald about way_.; to better defend the . Persian Gulf. We are at the brink of national emergency becau.>e our oil .>upply is en­dangered, and we will continue to be at the brink until we le,.;.-;en the strategic importance we place on the Gulf area. We mLI.-it con,:;<"rve fuel. Going to war in orde.r to protect our right to over-con.;ume is unthink­able. Sacrifice i.> nect"..>..>ary. Granted, it i.~ .rime to _be rough abroad, but rr .s also ume to be tough on our:;elve.; at home. 
Finally, one other i.>.sue mu,:;t be di.scu.>.sed. A.> read, the platform calL-; handgun control "crucial" to the le.>.>ening of violc·nt crime. Yet we find the plank insufficient. At the Gun Owner.-; of American -Nationa H.ifle A . .;sociation foruin in Nev.· Hamp.-;hire two weeks ago. John Anderson called for licen­

sing of handguns and: their 
owners. Strf'.s.sing the practical 
,;en.sibility of a program which 
would require prospective gun 
buyers to pa,;;.s a te.st proving 
competence, Anderson wa,;; 
.shouted down by the con.>erva­
ti':e. ~udience, and predictably 
cntlCtzed by the other candi­
dates. We feel that an amend­
ment recommending his testing 
program would make the plat­
form more laudable. 
On Thursday, when the plat­
f,lrm is radied, and on Friday 
when a nominee is .selected, 
Notre Dame .>tudent.s have a 
chance to .speak out--a chance 
which comes only once every 
four years. We can demon­
strate the inventiveness and 
leader,;;hip expected from thi,;; 
campus by calling for a plat­
ferro thac '"re.s.se.s program,;; 
Instead of platitudes and by 
nominating a candidate who 
dares ·o be different--who dares 
to tell America what it must 
hear, rather than what it want,;; 
to hear. 
The Anderson difference is 
unmi.stakable. 
Frank P. Tighe Larry Hau Co-chairmen john Anderson Mock Conven­tion Committee 
A~-------­

A learning experience 
Dear J<..'ditor: 
Last Fridav, TlJe Observer· 
criticized the· platform written 
for the ND-SMC Republican 
Mock Convention. I agree that 
the platform is tO•> conservative 
and not an accurate reflection of 
the feelings of the members of 
the ND-SMC community. It is a 
ba,;;is for debate on the i.;;.sue.s 
for Thursday night at the 
convention. 
Bur a., a member of the 
committee which wrote the 
Platform, I urge everyone, e,;;­
pt:cially tllf' delegates to the 
upcoming convention, to read 
the platform. I al.>o urge 
cor~ment orJ the platform; it i.s, 
m fact, the duty and right of the 
delegates at the convention to 
amend the platform Thur,;;day 
night. 
I .strongly urge delegate,;; who 
do not agree with the platform 
to offer amendment..> and speak 
during the debate. Thur.sday·is 
an important night, because 
that is when we will discover 
how this community really feel.> 
about the issue,;;. And once we 
understand the issue,;; we can 
m~xe responsibly. choose a no­
mmee for Pre.stdent Friday 
night. 
The Mock Convention i.s a 
!earning and enjoyable exper­
Ience. And Thur,;;day, as well 
as Friday night, .should be 
exrremely interesting. 
Btl! Leary 
·women? 
ker.s come from toe community· political one? yet another four local wome~ 
The cla.>s action suit for .sex are respondents. All very intel­discrimination is pending, Title lectually stimulating, it .seems. IX i,;; not fully accepted, and


ofno significance. 
But Notre Dame has not appeared WHERE ARE THE WOMEN? very liberal in these 1.s.>ue.s. Therefore a national conference
WHO ARE THEY? 
on women help.> the Univer,;;ity

Dear Edztor: ARE THERE WOMEN? Ar­r.e.store its public image. In thi.> tist.>, intellectuals, critic,;;, ,;;tu­light, women'..> actual atten­dent,;;, teachers, where are you? dance or real participation is of 
This week the Center for .Not at the Conference. no .significance, indeed. Too Continuing Education i.> host­. Could it be that women are bad for the women of this 
ing a conference with a title that discouraged by the $35.00 re­community who feel left out, wants to be relevant: Woman: gistration fee? Could it be that and who on the other hand, are Signifier or Signified It can be women who ought to have been appalled by the vacuity of the indt!ced that women will be at concerned, were not informed content (Monday afternoon)
the center uf the i.s,;;ue.s, as of the upcoming gathering? and the vacuum of the container objects, agents, consumers, Could it be, rather. that the (twelve or thirteen participant.> image~, .symbol3.prodmers,you College of Art,;; and Letters i.> on Monday, one to three visi­name It. .sponsoring a secret event, in ton). 
The program informs you o~der to minimize participation further that six or ,;;even wo­ot potennal!y dangero~.s wo­
Anne Lacombe

men, artists and professionals, men, e.>pectally tn vtew of 
Associate Professor ofFrench · 

have been brought in From recent effervescence on cam­East and West r oa.sts as ,;;pea­pu >? Could it be finally, that ker.s; ~mother five or ,;;ix spea-the College'.> only cqncern is a 

The only rational frame-work 
DougKreitzberg 

In a society such as ours which places its John Paul II. 
inhabitants upon a treadmill generarea by Freedom for all, the usually .>tated ju.>tifica­
vending machme desires and TV dinner ethic.> tion for any U.S. involvement dissolves when 
it is difficult for an individual to step back and freedom has become "the right to live ,;;el­
interpret conventional demands in the light of fi,;;hly." Military intervention to protect the 
one'.s own moral conscience. Yet, there are Per.>ian Gulffall.> .>hon of morally ju,;;tifiable; to 
time.> when political and moral re.>por: >ibilitie,;; wipe out the memories, dream.s, and hope.s of 
conflict and if the variou.> possibilities to ~quate another over a barrel of oil i.:; nothing less than 
the two are not carefully di.scu.>3ed, the re.>u1Jng corporate murder. 
deci.>ion may prove fatal. If military intervention i.> morally corrupt 
We have now entered an era that require.> military preparation can hardly be in a brighte; 
.seriou.> consideration. The horror of the Rus.>ian light. "There is no way to peace. Peace is the 
invasion into Afghani,;;tan, the Iranian cri.>i.>, and way." If we de.>ire peace a,;; .>trongly a,:; we .>ay 
lingering ten3ion.s in the Middle East have we do, it i,;; only natural that we realize this goal 
combined to spark an atmo.sfhere of war acros3 in a peacefui, non-violent, non-aggre.s,;;ive 
the United States. Capito Hill seems to be fa.>hion. (To ,;;ay that the Ru.s,;;iam will thereby 
kindling i:hi.s ,;;pa:rk as President Carter rank.'> t~ke advantag_e of the ,;;itua:tion.i.;; nothing but a 
comfortably in the poll.>, a,;; the Pentagon clear.> p1ece oftwo-blt propaganda de.>tgned to relegate 
.space in it,;; safe for the expected increa.>e in the the Soviets to a .sub-human level. We .>aid the 
defense budget, and a.> cobweb.5 are being .swept .same of China a while ago.) 
out of Selective Service offices. The muscle-flexing the United States ha..; 
Spurred by patriotic fever and the govern­exhibited in the pa.>t few month3 i,;; an indication 
ment'.> current mythology of foreign affairs, of the lack of real authority it has in exercising 
Americans everywhere are itching to kill for­it.> power. Violence a,;; the only effective mean.> 
their di.>torted .5en.>e offreedom. Yet, not even a for ,;;ettling world conflict cannot justify\ this 
decade has pa.>.sed since American troop" left a power. The viability ofpov.Ae.t i.> ba.>ed in truth, ' 
.smoldering Southeast Asia to end one of the and truth nece.s.>itate.s a .search for alternatives. 
mo.>t devastating wars that ha.> ever .>carred the When power di.:;mi.s,;;e.> these alternative,;;, its 
pages of mankind. It .seem.> as if the ground in truth i,;; .>evered and· it,;; expre.>.sion 
mind-forged manacles .shackled by national mu.>t be que.>tioned. . 
pride and .self-righteou,;;nes.> have effaced its If the teaching,;;· of Chri,;;t teach· u.s anything at 
pa,;;t atrocities and are leading u.> again upon the all, they teach u.s to love. Christ•,_, love i.> not 
road to a tragic fate. . without .>truggle, however; it is a radical love 
As ,;;tudent.s .suppo.>edly involved in the which forces u,;; to re.>ist, prote.>t, and oppo.>e, in 
pursuit of knowledge, it i.> imperative that we a non-violent form, any .sanctions against that ·cast a reflection of the government'..> demands love. The impending regi.>tration·and draft i,;; a upon the opaque .>urface of our moral .sen.>ibili­,;;rep toward.> military preparation and must be 
tie.>. The que.>tion arises: Can we ever be re.>Isted. We mu.>t hear ourown con.;;cience over 
morally ju.>tified in takin_g another human that of the bugle in the parade or we might be 
being'.5 life? If .so, doe.> tfie present .>ituation hearing rha,t .>arne bugle later playing tap.>. 
give u.> moral recour,;;e to militarily intervene, if Hauerwas and Shaffer .state· in their article 
the need to do so arises? If not, could we ,;;till Hope in the Ltfe ofThomas More, "The rea.s~n 
accept military preparation a,;; .a mean,;; to peace? that the fir.>t duty of every loyal ,;;ubject i.> to be 
The two latter question,;; were handled quite loyal to his con,;;cience i,;; not because conscience 
well at the dtaft lecture given by Father Toohey i,;; an end in itself, but hecau,;;e the .;;ubject' s 
and Profe.>.>or Yoder a few week> ago. With the failure to be true to him,;;elf i.> a failure to be true 
advanced military technology we have it is 'to the love that provides u.s a basi.s for being able 
po.>,;;ible for world-wide obliteration. ''In thi,;; to trust and .share our.selve,;; and to al·cept the 
nuclear age, the Ju.>t War Theory has become tru.st of others." 
totally bankrupt," .said F.r. Toohey. Indiscrimi­Ifwe are to tear the bloody horrors of our pa,;;t 
nate bombing of the fa.>hion we .are capable of from ourselve.>, it is e.s,;;ential to accept one 
perpetrating ha,;; been condemned by Vatican II another'.> tru.st and .>tay within the only rational 
al)d oppo.>ed by both Pope Paul IV and Pope framework: peace. 
administration of either rnstrtution. 
E~itorial Board and Department Managers 
The news is reponed as accurately anq

~The Observer_ 
Editonn chre( ........ Rosemary Mill-s Sports Editor .... ............. Mark Perry
as objectively as possible Editorials represent the oprnton of a majority of Managing Editor........ .Diane Wilson Features Editor.. .Kathleen Connelly the Edrtonal Board. Commentaries, Editorial Editor.............. Ann Gales Photo Editor . ........... Doug Christian
Box Q Notre Dome, IN 46556 

1Jpinions and letters are the views nf Senior Copy Editor......... M. Onufrak Th: Observa is an independent :heir authors. Column space is avail-Executive News Editor ... ... Mike Lewis Business Mon,Jger....... .Steve Odland 
Production Manager .... John MrGrath

new paper publish_ed by the students ahJ, r•' all members of the.wmmunity, · Nrws Edztur................. .. Mark Ru.sr of : .. l.lniversttr o~ Notre Dame du lac and th( fra expression (lf varying New' Editor: .. .. ..... ... Mike Shields Adt·atrsmg Manager ... :;,M. Holsingc:r an 1 Jatnt Mary s college. _l< does not. •.>prnrl'n~ on t "mpus. rhrougt; kners, is S.HC New• Editor.. . .Margie Brassit Controller..... . . . . . h,_evtn Manwn 
Cirr{J/ation Monuf; . ." .....Greg tfedges

_nc· .sanly r,.fic, t •he 'POltt 1:-" of the ·:n! •ltlfag•.-d. 
~. ~~-~ .-..-·-· .---·--..--.... ---;-:-.

•--'-'·~--~~~=-~-.~~~~~ '~' r.·.~---•~,J. <~. l~,·-~-"'1!~.~~--~~--~-.~!-..;,;,_~_,-~. 
-~-~· ...------........... , ....... ' -> , ~ .. .. 0 ·~ .. ~ --" F ~ .. '"" ' 

.---..'-::.-.. : : .-:..' ' .-: .--::"~-.-. '.-. -.'..
' f • -I f • • * • • • • • • • o o " • • • • t ' o • ,. " • • " 







The Irish Extra 
THJ; FIGHTING .IRISH 
an Observer sports supplement 



Hot Irish hope m.om.entum. contunuesuntournar.nent 
by Mark Perry Sports Editor 

For the seventh straight season the Notre Dame basketball team begins its annual quest for the national cham: pionship this Saturday, as it begins play in the Midwest Regional of the NCAA tournament. Although the Irish aren't sure of their opponent for the 
3:23 CST contest, coach Digger Phelps is confident that they are ready to face anybody. 
"I feel like we're heading into the tournament with good momentum," Phelps notes. ''Knocking off top-rank­ed DePaul at home and beating Dayton on the road, a place where we usually have trouble, has to help our confi­dence. 
"We're probably playing our best basketball of the season right now. We feel we're at the top of our game, and that's exactly where we want to be when the NCAAs starts.'' 
The Irish will face the winner of tonight's Missouri-San Jose State contest. Although Mizzou is the heavy favorite, the Irish will have a chance to look at both teams in this first-round contest. 
Missouri heads into tonight's game with a 23-5 record, and is ranked 16th in the final Associated Press poll. The Tigers won the regular-season crown in the Big Eight Conference with an 11-3 mark, but were upset by Kansas in the semi-final game of the confer­ence post season tournament. 
In addition to losing the tourney, the Tigers lost the services of forward Curtis Berry, their leading rebounder 
(7.5 average) over the season. 
Berry slipped in last Friday's game, tore cartilage in his left knee, and underwent sur~ery Monday morning. Berry, an All-Btg Eight team member, also averaged 14.4 points to rank second on the team in scoring. 
Berry's absence will put additional pressure on freshman sensation Steve Stepanovich. The 6-11 center, who was heavily recruited by Notre Dame last season, leads the Tigers with a 14.9 point scoring avergae, and was picked as the Big Eight Newcomer of the Year. 
Sophomore Ricky Frazier and Mark Dressler will handle the forward spots. Frazier had the best field goal percen­tage in the Big Eight (.638), while Stepanovich, Berry, and Dressler stood in the next three spots. The Tigers rank first in the country with a .573 shooting average, and should break UCLA's record of .55 5 set last year. 
Senior guard Larry Drew-the Tigers' career leader in games played, games started, and assists -anchors the backcourt. He has started 101 consecu­tive games, and is currently scoring 
12.9 points per game. Freshman Jon Sundvold fills out the starting lineup at guard, scoring 6.5 ppg. 
The Spartans of San Jose State, under the guidance of first-year coach Bill Berry, own a 17-11 record, and made the NCAAs with a 94-68 win over regular-season champion Utah State in the Pacific Coast Athletic Association post-season tournament. 
Seniors Wally Rank and Mickey Jackson lead the team in both scoring and rebounding. Rank, a 6-6 forward, is hitting 16.4 ppg, while Jackson, a 6-7 forward, has an 11.3 average. Arthur Graham, a 6-8 junior, mans the center spot, and has an 8.4 scoring average. 
The guard spots are manned by junior Michael Mendez (7. 5 ppg) and senior Dan Sullivan (3.6 ppg). 
The Irish have been healthy lately ­the main reason behind their strong finish -but head into the tournament with sume minor injuries. Forward Kelly Tripucka has a minor back sprain, a problem earlier this season, and also has some partially-torn tendons in his right thumb. Center Gil Salinas has a sprained right ankle and a bruised thigh. Both, however, are expected to play this weekend. 
"We are very excited about being in the tournament," Phelps concludes. "We have a tough road to the finals, but every regional will be tough. I still think there are 14 or 15 teams that could take the whole thing. I think we are one of those teams. 
"We're just going to go out and play the best that we can and see if we can shape our own destiny." 
26-1 1,173 28-3 l-030 24-5 }'018
1 

·;g.) 956 
26-3 872 
25-3 785 20-7 746 23-6 722 
22·5 594 
20-7. 586 24-5 564 24-4 485 24-4 479 22·8 450 21;7; l2~, 23·5 ,, 278 
Paxson Searly maturity aids Notre Dame 
by Paul Mullaney Assistant Sports Editor 
There were only five seconds left against UCLA when John Paxson pulled up, 18 feet from the basket, for a jump shot. The shot didn't fall, but Paxson drew a foul on the Bruins' Rod Foster. The Irish, who were trailing by one point, took the lead as Paxson calmly sank his two free throws. The Paxson, in only his fifth collegiate game, stole the subsequent in bounds pass. He was fouled again, connected on two more free throws, a,nd led his team to a dramatic 77-74 victory in what Notre Dame coach Digger Pvelps considered his team's first "power game" of the year. 
That scene was no fluke. Paxson, a 6-2 rookie guard, has consistently demonstrated the same "veteran" instincts throughout the 1979-80 sea­son. Nineteen points against David­son, a starting berth against Manhat­tan, crucial driving layups against DePaul and Dayton ... all have shown that Paxson's performance this season has been anything but '~beginner's luck.'' 
During the regular season, Paxson logged 428 minutes of playing time and scored 119 points -the highest in each category for Notre Dame'.;; non­starters. He also ranks second to Rich Branning as the team's assist leader with 59. 
Not bad for a mere youngster, who just nine months ago ~raduated from Archbishop Alter Htgh School in Kettering, Ohio. 
"Before I came to Notre Dame," says the freshman guard, "I really wonder­ed what it would be like playing with the likes ofa Kelly Tripucka or a Tracy Jackson -playe_rs that I had watched for years on television.'' 
Now youngsters around the country are watching Paxson on television, and they're seeing more and more of him. 
"I've really felt comfortable lately," he smiles. ''Things have worked out very well. I'm happy."­
Things weren't always so rosy for Paxson, however. He really had to struggle in his first few months at Notre Dame. 
"It was really hard for me at first," he argues. "And I'm not just saying that to say it. During my senior year of 

Irish freshman John Paxson has proven that his performance this season has beenOn the ball! anything but "beginner's luck." He has scored more points and played more minutes than any other non-starter. ­
high school I hardly ever studied. That • was just the way it was. You didn't have to. 
"But when I came here, it was like I was out ofpractice. If you didn't study, you were in deep trouble. It was tough on all three of us freshman players. It seemed like a two-sided world basketball and academics -and there was time for nothing else.'' 
One would think Paxson won't worry about his studies on Saturday. The Irish will open tournament action in Lincoln, Neb., and the youngster from Ohio will be in the thick of the action. And he sees his team's chances as very positive. 
"We've really been pro~ressing well," he says. "It started agamst San Francisco, when we first started showing some intensity. You could see it in each other's face 
"When we got it going both ways -on offense and defense -like we did against Frisco and DePaul, we really look good. We're starting to peak, and I think it's at the right time. Just so we keep it up." 
And as long as John Paxson keeps it up, Irish fans can keep smiling. 
TheIrish Extra 

1\llichael Ortman 


Hoyas shine in balancedfield 


East Regional 

There are several things that the Eastern Regional of the NCAA Tourn· ament should be noted for. 
1. Balance 

2.The number of teams that could win it. 
3. !\s rnatlV Notre Dame opponents (four) as th(" other trree regions combined. 
The East has traditiona.lly produced a number of upsets, especially in the cournamem's early rounds. Remember a year ago when the unsung heros from Penn and St. John's met in the finals, while highly touted Duke and Norrh Carolina sat at home and watched on TV? The 1980 field presents vast potential for a similar championship game. 
Any one of eight reams has the fOtential to advance to the Final Four, with the Maryland Terapins (23-6) bt>ing the most likely choice, at least on pa~y·r. 
Ot' Notre Dame's five losses this season, four came against schools in rhe 48-team field. Only San Francisco (current!}' on NCAA probation and unable to participate) is missing. Among rhose four schools to beat the irish, Marquette (18-8) and North Carolina State (20-7) are in the East. T"'-'O rh:m,..r m!"'rnh,..ro;; of th" Tr~ry Jackson Fan Club, Villanova (22· 7) and 
\.1aryland, also find themselves in 1 his braeket. 
Add ro rhat list nationally-ranked c·astern powers Georgetown (24-5), Syracuse (2'>-3), and Iona (28-4) plus the Big Ten's fourth tournament team, Iowa ( 19-8), and vou come up with a potential eight-team free-for-all. 
Various tournament pools have been floating arb'l.lnd this week; so most people know how rou~ h it can be to fill 111 4H blanks with gut sses. When you take all of the talenrs, coaches, game sites, records, and the like into 
. consicleration but then negate all that wid1simrk phrases like, ''There are .llu•,,_r ·, up·-<·t~-in rhc t• ,,,rnamenr. ·' vr "hut · .. and-~c· ha:-. been so hot lately," ~nv picks .._orne down to almoor rot1l guc·~o;; work. It's almost c·quall> ···u~h t.. pick a regional ,-,·inn.·:. >' i,J:t·, in ,,u haJan, ,.cJ :1 hra< kc·• · 
CaJ: ·. I•·:• ch· p•(k i~ 
~ ;('1 H ~.>_: ; ·­

-lkfiH·mb. i rh;<l':-. f1oJ~, dw guy wh•J lmt,hcd .k :1d last 111 J'/1e-Ob.,e· i/f'7' football pick~ last Ctll, yet th~re is 
rncrh .. d ;.. h1s =<l.ldt;:·c,s. Tl1r II-.-.-~~ 11' rc·d hm. having won ;h"" i;, : ; '· ··-tL•t;~hl including a pair of 
•.ms .,,-,.r "·.-:;~> d'-• (the six-ranked nr.~ngcnwn :. ·:.1 -~nly three garnes aU 1-·ar) an,! l'• r;m·d ~r. John's. Follo\v­,,;g a fm.; mL:nd h,-~. (;eorgetOWIO will i•lay· the wl!lner of the Holy Cros~-J,,n:a .~ame (i.e·. lona) in what coulJ be the Ji1ughest t·onrest in 1 he regional for the lie!\, aS. 
I;JJ\a :-, lt-d hv 6-I 0 cemer Jeff Ruland. who h1" ~<>:'H.h, Jim Valv~no, -.·~ys he "wouldn·, trade for any wlleg(' 1tnter i'1 the country." Ruland led the (,i.iels tO a 28-4 finish, inciuding thc·ir la-.t 17 <.trai~ht. A 17-point win 'IV\!' rowuful Low:;ville signaled that luna ts tor rr-al, but perhaps not enough t~~r (;eorgetown. 
Georgetown s , m.p-passing guard John Duren tt'am:-. with fon•;:\rd Cra1g Shdwn to form one of rhe most d[ectivr· ~:corin~ tanr~ems in the East. ll!gh-scormg Em floyd, whose 21 r01ms paced the Hoyas past Syracusr in the Big East championship last wcc·k, is smoking. At the helm of this 
;.-onlinu,'d 01'J pag~:. 9] 
1-~· ,.--'~--__ 

Thursday, March 6, 1980 -page 8 

Paul· 
Mark_ Gary 


Mullaney Perry Grassey 



RuppArenanot enoughfor Cats 

Mideast Regional 
All year long, coache.s aero.;.; the 
country belly-ached about Kentucky 
having an opportunity to play regional 
.semi.; and fi"nah on their home floor. 
So what happen.;? The NCAA, in it.s 
attempt to achieve the mo.st balance 
po.s.sible, .seed.; Kentucky fir.st in the 
Midea.st Regional. That'.; the regional 
which will be concluded at Kentucky'.; 
own Rupp Arena. And who .said 
politic.; and athletic.; didn't mix? 
I .;rill can't figure out the logic in that 
one ... let alone the ju.stice. Someone 
mentioned that they (whoever the 
cu!prit.s are) were worried that it would 
be difficult to fill Rupp Arena'.; 22,000 
.seat.; if rhe home team wa.sn't there. 
Nice try. 

I don't think anyone (except Joe B.) 
would object to placing Loui.sville in the 
Midea.st (it'.; only a .stone'.; throw from 
Loui.sville ro Lexington), and .sending 
the Wildcat.; to the midland.;. It 
certainly wouldn't hurt attendance. 
And be.side.s, with Indiana and po.s.si­
bly Purdue having good .shot.; at 
reaching the regional .site, who can 
worry about filling the .stadium. Both 
Hoo.sier .school.; have good following.;, 
and it'.; not a long ride to Lexington. 
(It'.s a lot .shorter than it i.s to Lincoln 
or Houston). 

Bur mavbe it'.; all immaterial, .since 
the Wildcat.; won't make it to the Final 
Four anyway. Coach Bobby Knight'.s 
Indiana (20-7) .squad i.s a new team 
with the return of Mike Wood.son. 
Wood.son, who.se return after back 
.surgery i.s .somewhat miraculou.s, 
make.; a difference of night and day. 
Hi.; mere pre.sence on the court i.s quite 
uplifting to the Hoo.sier.s, who were 
fltrting with mediocrity ju.st a few 
month.; ago. 

Additionally, Wood.son'.; return ro rhe. lineup lighten.; the load for fre.shman .sen.sation I.siah Thoma.;. Tse guard from Chicago wa.s beginning to show sign.; of rookie wear until Wood.son reappeared on the scene. 
All of that, plus Indiana'.; dramatic ovenime win over Ohw Stare last Sunday in the Big Ten'.; title game, make.; Indiana the emotional favorite. So emotional that even Adolf Rupp l'an 't do anything about it. 
The \X'i!dcats (28-'i) will be rough, h<>\\Tv(·r Thev ,hou],J have li:rl~ uou!Jie wnh 'either Florida Statt (21-7) or Toledo (23· 5) in their tourney opener (which, by the poor luck of the draw, has ro be played in Bowling Green, Ky.). Once on it's home: <.ourt, Kentucky wJII beat Duke (22-8), and then fall to the Hoosier.;. 
Purdue (18-9) and Western Kentuc­ky (21-7) also received home-court advantage.; for fir.-;r and .second-rou.1d games. The Boilers will hold uff a tough LaSalle (21-8) club at Mackey Arena in West Lafayette, anr:l then knock off 13th-ranked St. John'.; (24-4). But once the 20th-ranked team of Lee Ro.se has to move away from hnme, it will fall prey to Woodson and Companr. 
Western Kentucky ho.st,:; Virginia Tech ( 19-7) in first-round a,:tion, and .;hould advance to host the Hoo_;;ier.s. That's when the Hiltopper.;' (what a name!) season will end. 
Indiana, Sports Illustrated's pre­_.;eason favorite. may just make the magazir·e look a_;; accurate a.> it wa.s two year.; :.go, when it picked both Notre Dame in foothall and Kentucky in ba.;;ketball. 
On~ thing remain.; sure, nonethe· less. Indiana will advance to the Final Four. After all, how else can they .,;ell out Marker Square in Indianapoli.'? 
---,t' .. -·. ­

Irish face tough OSUtalent ranks roadto Finals aheadofDePaul 
MidwestRegional West Regional 
Thanks to the kind members of the The We.stern Regional i.s no longer NCAA selection committee, the Notre the place everybody want.; to be Dame basketball team once again shipped off to for a short ride to the begins its chase for that elusive pot of Final Four. Since UCLA came back g-old at the end of the rainbow, the down to earth a few year.; ago, thi.s NCAA title. part of the country ha.; given binh to But nobody said that .the road to regional finalists from DePaul, Arkan­Indianapolis was going to be easy. sa,>, Cal State Fullenon, Idaho St., and While the committee honored the Nevada-Las Vega.; -Fullerton and 
Irish by picking them to be in the 
Idaho St. being the be.st of the we.st. tournament for the seventh straight 
Thi.s year, expect a .strong entry from year1 they also gave Notre Dame 
the we.st, but look toward.; Middle perhaps the toughest road ofany ofthe 
America once again for the Final Four seedea teams to teach rhe Final Four 
participant. in the Midwest Regional. 
Although laced with name.; like But rhe Irish may up to the 
Lamar, Loyola (Cal.), and Old Domi­challenge. 
nion -better known for quality hoop.; For the first time in recent memory 
from their girl.; in .short pant.; -the it seems like Notre Dame is on a 
We.st offers at lea.st three team.; with definite upswing entering the the 
realistic national champion.ship hope.s: tourney. Kelly Tripucka has been 
. DePaul, Ohio State, and Oregon unbelievable in recent weeks, scoring 
State. almost at will. Orlando Woolridge 
Beginning with the Pac-10 champs finalJy has all the tools to be a good 
from the Pacific Northwest, the fir.st center, and his 16 rebounds against 
team in 13 year.; to dethrone UCLA, it Darton should be ample proof of that. 
looks a.s if Ralph Miller'.; .second-.seed­Bil Hanzlik has learned how to play 
ed Oregon State Beaver.; are capable defense again, without fouling out 
of anything. That includes a 26-point midway through the second half, Rich 
los.;, like the one at UCLA during a Branning continues to provide the 
shaky road .swing a few weeks back. valuable leadership the team needs. 
While the fifth-ranked Beaver.; thrived John Paxson has been impressive off 
on anonymity all year long out.side of th~ bench. And Traty Jackson has 
Corvallis, Orcgc•n. they have won 26 been steady as usual. 
~ame.s. Tho.se numbers are impre.ssive With every gear of the Big Green 
m any league. Machine in place, the Irish may the 
Junior Steve Johnson i.; the big man tough ·to stop. 
at 6-10. John.son score.; around the 20 But let's consider the barriers. In 
mark con.sistemly (at one point in the the first round Notre Dame will 
.season he wa.; hitting 72.5 rercent probably play the Missouri Tigers 
from the floor) and i.s the type o player (23-S). Mizzou won the Big Eight tide 
who can carry a team far by himself. and seemed to be a shoe-in for a 
Weber State (26-2) will move from first-round bye when they lost to 
the ranks of the unheralded and give Kansas in the semi-finals of that 
Oregon State trouble after the Wild­illustrious creation of basketball con­
cat.; bury Lamar. In .;;pite of their home feren~es, the post-season tournament. 
court edge, the Big 3ky winner.; .;;hould The Tigers have on:! big asset, 6-11 
run out of ga.s again.st the stronger freshman .center Steve Stepanovich. 
Beavers. Third-seeded Brigham Digger Phelps wanted this boy bad, 
Young (24-4) i.;; playing irs best ball of but Stepaoovich decided to !;tay in hi~ 
the .;ea.;on according to coach Frank home state and has rnrne-d the 
-\.mold. After Cit m:,•H• <JU.>r..; Urah program aroun•l. 
State, the Couga:·,.;, two o~me \XIAC But Missouri is severely hun by tht: 
tidi.;t,, wilt rull pa,t tht-Tiger Orange loss of their top rebounder and 
to face Oregon Sr:He Ill the.: regional second-leading &cote.·r Cunis Berry. 
.• ;.;rniiiuaL. 

T~is wdl_be rhc flr~t big r;iim-:: dH' 
. T:!-,':'rs wtll phy wu!-w.:t :1'm, -:•ld 


1 ;, , .... n:lJau1e ntar bf· ~.hit .... tnr~:. :~ -~ ~'=­·. , .. ~ r .s 1 •J _, 
~;uards. lf that'<> li•c c;.;l:e, di~· !([:;!, ( atd1.H~b~: 1:~~:~,__!· ~-n-· pJ.:.t· 
shouiJ move J>n. 
•4> .• ... ~. aC 

an All-.\merican ir. dw l:lYU ba• k Once again, barring a major upse1, 
courr. Ainge ha., good ,,in· at 6-5 .. and Notre Dame faces their toughesr 
ha.;; the scoring ab.i-l11y to match it. The hurdle in th::: third ro;Jr.d when the)' 
Coug;;.r_, .SCOlc a lclt nf pc>illl.>. but til<:· will probably face the Tigers of 
have some pmblc m,; on defense. Louisiana State (24-4). Irish a~sistanr 
Center Alan Tavlor wi!l have a lor of coach DanOj' Nee pamed LSU as the 
headaches with. Steve Johnsun. Orr·­team to ~beat this year, and the Tigers 
{.;l)n State will wm rlie game with appear to be that tough. 
superior shooting frL1m the field and at Durand Macklin and Dc\XIayne 
rhe foul line, a.-; dlt'Jt IMti(•fll offen,.;e Scales form the most imposing from 
wear.; down the Cougar.'. line that Notre Dame could face this 
Top seed and No. one ranked DePaul st'ason. Once again it should be a 
(26-l) ha.; a tough as.>ignment in it,;; battle of the boards, but the Irish have 
bracket. It'-' never an ca.;;y task to bear been strong in that area late in the 
a team rwice during the .;ea.son. And season. Hanzlik should prove valuable 
the Blue Demons will face UCLA once in checking guard Ethan Marrin, and if 
the Bruin.; di,;;po..;e. of Old Dominion'.; Martin is controlled the LSU offense is 
Honnie Valentine, a player who has too. 
never failed to .score in double figures Meanwhile, on the othe-r side of the 
during hi.; four campaign.; at ODU . 

bracket, North Carolina (21-7) and Larry Brown and his tounng fre.shmen Louisville (28,3) battle it out to reach hallclub should give DePaul a tiny the Midwest finals. The Cardint1ls 
.;care. However. Kiki Vandewedhe i.s have had the consistency that the 
not Mark Aguirre and fiut year guard Tarheels have lacked all season, but 
Rod Fo.ster is not Clvde Bradshaw · at Dean Smith usually gets North Car­
least for now. No, 'the Blue Demons olina fired up come tournament time. 
will win that one. The money would have ro go on the 
The homework for Ray Meyer and hi.;; Cardinals, however. Remember last 
staff will become difficult once DePaul vear's "Atlantic Choke Conference"? 
gets a peek ,at Ohio State. The ' That would pit Notre Dame versus 
Buckeyes (20-7) are a riddle. They 
[conttnuc?.i 011 paj?e 9] 1 

fcontinu~·d on pagt-'J] -" -----·-.L. ~ 
. •· ~ .. ';.,c:·c ''-:'·-----•·-..---•--,--;.;;·-.-..-------­
• 

TheIrish Extra Thursday, March 6, 1980 -page 9 



No tomorrow in Notre Dame's second season 
A3 Notre Dame prepare3 to make it3 17th appearance-in the NCAA tournament, I think there'3 a few thing3 that have to be mentioned. 
Traditionally, the Midwe3t Regional ha3 been con3idered the "cakewalk" regional of the tourney. The perennial powerhouse conference3 (the ACC, Pac-10, SEC, etc.) have alway3 3ent their champions to the Ea3t, We3t and Midea3t, respectively. Marquette, complete with 3even los3es, came from the Midwest to win the national championship in 1977. Chance3 are they never would have made it out ofany other regional. When Notre Dame made their premier journey to the Final Four, they also-were the Midwe3t entry. 
Thi3 year, however, the Midwest bracket isn't theat ea3y. Notre Dame will mo3t likely have to face team3 such as 3econd-ranke9 loui3ville, No. three LSU, 15th-ranked North Carolina or 16th-rated Mi33ouri before heading for the promised land in Indianapoli3. A lot of expert3, nevertheless, believe the Iri3h could have fared wor3e. I, for one, think they could have done a lot better. 
Take, for in3tantce, Kentucky. All 3ea3on people feared the Wildcats would win the SEC conference tournament and wind up playing the regional games in their own Rupp Arena in Lexington. Well, they 
lo3t the title to LSU, but they still got the number one 3eed in the midea3t. You have to almost wonder who Joe B. Hall payed off this time. 
Or DePaul. Every Chicago 3port3 writer took offen3e to the Demon3 being "3hipped" to the Far We3t to try and earn another berth in the Final Four. 
"The number on team deserves better!" they 3hrieked in Monday'3 tabloid3. The number one team doesn't realize how lucky they are. Ray Meyer'3 3quad will be out there 3oaking up the 3un and drinking the blood of back-up conference team3 that almo3t made the grade, but not quite. Joey Meyer'3 daily diary will probably include a weather report to keep thing3 intere3ting. 
But let's talk about the Iri3h. Digger Phelp3 claim3 
indifference to the 3quawb about which team3 got 
the ea3y draw3 and which one3 got the 3haft. 
"When you get into the tournament you forget 
about every team but the one you play next and 

Frank 
LaGrotta 
your.self," he declared after a less-than-illustrious practice ye~terday. "a lot of team3 will be watching the thing on television. All we asked for is an invitation and we got one. Whether Cit" not wet win, it i3 totally up to us." 
Preparing for the first ~arne in the tournament (a game, incidently, that D1gger has never lost in six attempts) is no easy task becau3e, until tonight, Notre Dame will not know who they're going to play.SanJose State will face Missouri for the right to play the Jrish on Saturday, and while practice includes strategy for both teams, the smart bet atthis point is the Tigers. 
Mi3souri is led by Big Ei~ht Freshman of the year, Steve Stipanovich and the Ironic implication3 of him facing the Irish are plenty. The 6-11 center leads his team with 14.9 points and 6.5 rebound3 per game and he has been the catalyst in Mi3souri' s jump from a nothing team to a tournament contender. But I promi3ed some irony, and the fact that Digger heavily recruited Stipanovich 3hould provide plenty of that, plus .some pretty good new3paper article3 if the two teams were to meet. But Digger isn't worried. 
"I know we're going to need Woolridge, Salinas and Andree badly if we .should happen to face Mi33ouri," he 3aid. "Rebounding will be the key and I have confidence that any one of our center3 can do the job on him." 
But getting down to bra33 tacks, the real key to thi_;; game, and "very game the Iri.>h play before the clock 3trike3 12, just might be Kelly Tripucka. Tripucka i3 on what gambler3 like to call (and bet on) a "hot 3treak." With 3even 3traight 20-point game3 to hi.> -credit, No. 44 ha3 been nothing 3hort of sen3ational 3ince returning from a back injury that 3idelined him for a four-game stretch midway 
(continued from page B) 
have three legitimate NBA first round draft choices in the lineup -Herb William3, Kelvin Ran.>ey, and Clark Kellogg, 3till a fre3hman of untapped potential. Coach Eldon Miller also ha3 quality at the forward spot with Jim Smith. who has 3aved hi3 be3t ball for the end of the 3ea3on, and at guard with Carter Scott. They can be awe3ome. They can be un3toppable. 
Mo3t coache3 ,.;ay the Buckeye3 have 
the be.>t talent in the country. Granted, 
rhe Big Ten 3chedule is a brutal one, 
hut Ohio State has been throwing 
games away. Big lead..; against Wi_;;­
:un.,;in (rwtce) and Indiana in the 
second half fell apart with .>ome stupid 
•r·t ilnical fouL, and ~ lot of one-c>n-('ne t·~.:: Cheir ~alenl ~-:.; c·.ln.~tderable, but if the buckeye-s are to be 3ucces3ful, they mu.,;t do it in spite of them3elves ­must take 3ome re3pon3ibility for Ohio State3'3 bonehead 3treaks. 
The Buckeye3 3hould du3t off Arizona State, after the Sun Devils de3troy Loyola (Cal)., the weake3t team in the regional 3emifinals. Both teams can and like to run. On the board3, the team3 are even. However, Jim Mit­chem, at anything les3 thatn 100 percent, mean3 trouble for DePaul. 
The individual things to watch for will be the performance3 of players like Skip Dillard and Carter Scott. Tim Smith is every bit a3 strong as Mark Aguirre and could make the All-A­merican work harder for his points rhan he did in South Bend. This g<,me will be close Ir seems, however, th.>.t DcPauJ' s bubble is destined ro burst. Herb Wiiliam3 will give Terry Cum­ming_;; a les3on in the pivot, and career come to an end in Tuscon, Arizona. If Tedd Grubb3 cannot keep pace with Kellogg, DePaul'3 problems will be compounded. It's tough to bet again3t Aguirre, but Ohio State has the advantage in super3tar material. One word of caution, though, all the talent in the world will not help Ohio 
[continued from page 8] team (and this is a team) is. one of the nation's .'inesr coaclws, John Thomp­
son. An .assistant (nach on the H76 u.s' Olympic \"c a."!J, r;-,<:C1iJ~\)tl was Yoted one ?f W'C.shit~gtonianlVr,Jp,azme:; Men of the Year last year for his outstanding efforts in the nation's 
and that include3 their coach. who Ransey will not let hi3 ·marvelous capital. 
1979-80 FINAL REGULAR SEASON NOTRE DAME BASKETBALL STATISTICS  
·\>Yon 22 Lost 5  (Home 14-2  Road 5-1  Neutral 3-2)  
PLAYER  G/GS  MIN/AV9_Xq~FGA  P_CT  _F_T/FTA PCT  REB/AVG  PF/FO  A  BK  ST  PTS  AVG  
Jackson  27/27  834/ 30.9  149/ 288  .517  98/137  .715  179/ 6.6  56/ 0  54  16  51  396  14.7  
Tripucka  '22/'22  659/ 30.0  141/ 250  .564  111/145  .766  146/ 6.6  61/ I  47  29  393  17.9  
Woolridge  26/26  792/ 30.5  118/ 203  .581  77/110  .700  179/ 6.9  74/ 2  40  31  20  3]3,  12.0  
Branning  25/25  764/ 30.6  120/ 223  .538  55/ 82  .671  44/ 1.8  58/ I  87  I  14  295  11.8  
Hanzlik  21/21  567/ 27.0  57/ 126  .452  39/ 54  722  69/ 3.3  75/ 6  52  9  27  153  7.3  
Paxson  26/ I  428/  16.5  40/  82  .488  39/ 52  .750  32/ 1.2  37/ 0  59  0  24  119  4.6  
Salinas  25/ 5  310/  12.4  40/  73  .548  25/ 35  .714  52/  2.1  56/ 2  28  13  1  105  4.2  
Andree  24/ 0  259/  IO.!:i  30/ .65  .462  31/ 57  .544  59/ 2.5  48/ I  4  7  II  91  3.8  
Varner  24/ 0  215/  9.0  36/  76  .474  16/ 23  .696  44/  1.8  23/ 0  13  6  6  88  3.7  
WiJC(tX  24/ 7  299/  12.5  28/  69  .406  12/ 15  .SOO  14/  .6  26/ 0  21  0  4  68  2.8  
Mitchell  24/ I  250/  10.4  26/  62  .419  7i  14  .500  30/  1.3  24/ 0  29  2  -13  59  2.5  
Healy  15/ 0  28/  1.9  5/  9  .556  1/  5  .200  3/  .2  3/ 0  '"I 4.  0  II  0.7  
Hawkins  J'"t'-I 0  23/  1.9  2/  2  1.000  3/  4  .750  7/  .6  6/ 0  0  0  7  0.6  
Kelly  11/ 0  22/  2.0  2/  9  .222  0/  000  5/  .5  0/ 0  4  0  4  0.4  
Team Rebounds -----------­ 114/ 4.2 --­-­·-------­--· ·-----·  
-~----­ 
Notre Dame  27  5450/201.9  794/1537  .517  514/734  .700  977/36.2*  547/13  441  86  202  2102  77.9  
Opponents  27  5450/201.9  721/1533  .470  338/513  .659  848/31.4*  590/22  350  80  !57  1786  66.1  
*DeadbaU rebounds are not included in totals: Notre Dame 77 Opponents 48  

through the 3ea3on. 
Since then, Tripucka ha3 averagerd 21.8 point3 and 7. 7 rebound3 while 3hooting at a phenomenal .637 ctp from the field. He 3howed him.>elf a3 a player to be reckoned with against DePaul la3t W_edne3day when he had 28 point3 and should have been named the game'3 Mo3t Valuable Player. (I think there 3hould be a rule again3t Chicago 3portswriters stuffing the ballot box. Maybe they only came to the game to vote for Mark Aguirre?) 
Since it 3eems Digger ha.> mellowed on hi3 "liberal sub3titution" policy, you have to believe that Tripucka will be in3trumental to any 3ucce33 Notre Dame achieve3 thi3 3pring. Phelps' critic3 have alway3 charged that in a big game or a ti~ht 3ituation, the Irish have no one to look to for 3conng puch or the clutch ba3ket. At thi3 point Tripucka certainly 3eem3 able to fill that role. 
And ofcourse he'll have help from Tracy Jacbon. After la3t-.>econd heroic3 again.>t Villanova and Maryland, Jacbon seemed ready to join football counterpartJoe Monta,na in the Cardiac Kid.> Hall of Fame. However, it i.> a tribute to Jacbon'3 offen.>ive consi.>tency that he i.> not 3olefy remembered for buzzer jump 3hots and court-lenght drive.>. When Jackson i.> hot he'll shoot the light.:; out of any arena in the country and against the diverse d ~fense3 the Irish will .>ee in the playoffs hi.> .>ure 3hot and uncanny court sense will have to be a plu.>. 
And then there i3 Orlando Woolridge. Nr,tre Dame'.5 lone entry into the Ali-Aryerica ranks this season, Woolridge has averaged 14.8 point3 and a 66-percent shooting clip in hi3la.>t 14 outings. Hi.> 16 rebounds again3t Dayton spened a big difference in the final .>core. 
At thi.> point, however, every statistic i.> worthless, every victory a membry, every individual honor forgotten. Every one of the 48 entrie.> in thi3 -year's tournament will start vvith a 0-0 re.::ord, but only one will emerge un3cathed. 
"It's .>udden death, fella3,' Digger reminded his 
team yesterday. "There i.> r o tomorrow. It'.s all 
today and it' 3 yours if you want it.'' 
And they do want it. Every one of them. They want it bad. 
• • • osu 
State if they don't keep their head3 cool -DePaul i3 very cool. 
When the Buckeyes wake up after their not-so-up3et victory over DePaul, Eldon Miller's 3quad will defeat Oregon State on talent alone and move toward3 a date with the Final Four in Indianapoli3. 
b 
•• Hoyas 
So what about Maryland, Syracuse, anJ l\'unh Carolina State? The Ter­ap[n.., .· •(; \·r·ubabh: f?ce_Ge_c•rg.t"~-:·:~ in r!·, . ·. · : · ·:-. 1 <'mt-ftn::lo. Ill Pht!·,~·· . pn:.1. · '·c:· 1pscn L.,,.. .1;~ but., .. ·: ,. 
Ldty .Jne::.dl io n~·:em yt:;;r,..;. ll1t trend couid continue. Either Syracuse or Nurrh Carolina 
State (or maybe Villanova, or "t\1ar­quettc, or .....) should make the regional finals from the upper bracket. \3m the Hova5 are just plam bC'rtt-r ,han the WIolfpack, and nb te~.m h;;" so 
dominated Syracuse this year as has Georgetown. · 


' , ,Irish 
--------·-·-----­
[continued from page BJ · 
Louisville in the finals, and this game 
is a lot easier to pick than ND-LSU. 
The one weapon that has earned the 
Cardinals all season is the fast break. 
To have the fast break--you -need 
rebounding. Louisville will be without 
one of irs top rebounders, Scooter 
McCray, and the Irish have enough 
muscle underneath to keep everyone 
else in check. And-if the Doctors of 
Dunk can't get their running game 
going, Darrell Griffith and teammates 
will be watching the Final Four on TV. 
And if the Insh make it to Indian­
apolis, U7ATCH OUT!! That pot of 
gokt may finallv be within their grasp. 
-

l~,;,,.:;n ,;~;;:;:;:;:-:-;;,-_-"'".~~~~~:~~-~-~;~: ~w!:..-rz..-~7"-"'i'r'f'7""r~;;:,i"e;i~~~...;,~~-. ·:-~~~~~:-:;:~.--;, .-~--"'7·-:..~·~;·.-~~:~~~L~~~-~ ·:mlJ!S'3·er-· ;..;.~:~~--~ ....-·r?5"'A'7£Wi5· <MR·J· ...·:u x-r-:::;:-+ 

,--­
' 

Features  Thursday, March 6, 1980.-page 11  
portray a band in s~multaneousMusicvieUJs ecstasy and agony. While many bands today, i.e. the Knack, Cheap ********************>. Trick, Van Halen, and practica.!ly any other band that comes from Califor­nia or the Midwest, have gone for a more commercial sound, The Clash have still maintained and perhaps enhanced the raw sound of their first album. The Clash perform a rock' n' roll .found in the streets, not in the studios. However, not only is this great guitar-based rock'n'roll -the lyrics are good, too. The Clash have one of the few bands that don't advocate a "Let's Party!" or "Let's Screw!" attitude to life. You may wonder why they don't and some­times I wonder, too. The Clash have principles and they want to express them~ They are decent young men.London Calling Clash convey, in such songs as "Wrong 'Em Boyo" Death or Glory"The Clash· "Kola Kola" and "Lover's Rock", an ethical message that denounces lying ~' (CBS) deceiving, promiscuous sex, drugs, and above all, "selling out". OwningWell what can I say except that the this album is like owning a rock best damned band in the world just version of the Ten Commandments. released their best effort to date, a Like wow, man, The Clash are justdouble album destined to take its like Horace and Juvenal in black place next to such rock classics as leather jackets. DavidJohansen's first album and the Diversity is the element that makes Ramone's Rocket to Russia. Yet, many double albums alassics andThe unlike thes albums, The Clash's Clash display a dexterity that mapyLondon Calling surpassses them with bands can only dream about. The a much more intense emotion and a opening song, "Wrong 'Em Boyo"greater social significance. possesses not only reggae based The emotion and energy expressed rhythms but also a pop-stylizedin such songs as "Train in Vain", chorus. After that, they play "Death "London Calling", and "Death or or Glory", a driving rocker with Glory'', recall the. energy ,of ~he unbelievable energy, ehtical lyrics,mid-60s Stones. Mtck Jones gmtar and profanity, to boot. "Kola Kola" and Joe Strummer's raspy vocals is a pop ditty in Clash style while  the last song on that side is ''The face'' Card Cheat", a song which sounds as C) Weasel out by saying "its gotif it was produced by t'hil Spector. some good stuffya know'', and agreeThe Clash prove through their mas­with both sides, like a real wimp.tering of different styles, their non­I guess I'll have to take Alternative compromising attitude, their lyrics A. The title that this mess goes by is and their instruments that they are "Bebe Le Strange" whatever thatthe best rock band in the world. As means. Ann Wilson tries to give us athe Sex Pistols would say, ''We mean clue, but bigger than a breadboxit, man.'' would have been more help. TheMike Ewing whole record is pretty clueless, and I really am very disappointed after*******************>­what I thought was a phenomenal album, ''Dog And Butterfly'', and two hot concerts of their last tour. They didn't even relax here in the Bend, as do most bands who fly through their material to get the hell away from our unresponsive audi­ences. ·· If it wasn't for "Break", you would think that the band had lost all of their talent. It seems that Roger Fisher's presence meant more to the band than I might have expected. Almost all of the songs are extremely 1 mindless, and the absence of emotion and feeling is amazingly obvious when compared to "Dog And Butter­fly''. Fisher's leaving has made a deep scar on this album. Almost all of the lyrics· seemed to be aimed at him,Bebe le Strange discussing what he has caused by leaving the band, and his lover, theHeart lead vocalist arid song writer, Ann Wilson.(Epic) I'd like to forget 'that this album ever happened, but I can't, so myWhat do you do when one of your advice is to ignore it and maybe it'll favorite recording artists puts out a go away. It's a sad reflection of the mess like this one? You could: talent that this band does have -A) Tell everyone how disappointed· Roger Fisher, please come home. you are, and resign your loyalties. B) Defend it against all those who Michael A. Korbel were waiting to put one "in your  
Scott Spencer READING SA1URDAY MARCH 15 4:00 PM MEM. LIB. AUD. Editor's note: The article below did not run ;,. yesterday's SIP preview owing to space limitations. The Sophomore Literay Festival begins this Monday and continues through Sa'*rf:Jay, .'Wirch 15. Teen-age love is a topic about which authors have written for years, but few with the flair of Scott Spencer in his novel Endless Love. The transition from absurdity to romantic seriousness is accomplished with ·the finesse of a gymnast doing a floor exercise. The tempo changes the mood of the story without missing a beat or startling the audience. It is the summer of 1967; David Axelrod is soon to enter college at Berkeley. He is a middle-class, Chicago teen-ager who has just been banished from his girlfriend's home by her parents, who think the .couple's romance needs to be cooled off. In order to get back into the parents' favor, David sets fire to their house in the hop6s of rescuing them from their dire fate-which he just happens to notice as he is passing through thet neighborhood. The trouble arises when the fire begins to get out of control and the Butterfields are unwilling to leave. Reason? The Butterfields have been tripping together on LSD. Luckily, David is able to get them out unscathed. Then again, maybe he isn't so lucky after all. Hugh Butterfield has him tried for arson and eventually placed in a mental hospital from which he is not paroled until three years later. Spencer does not treat David as an immature, compulsive threat.to society, but rather as an intelligent, sensitive boy in love.. His rash beha.vior is brought on not by the confusion within him, but by the mass confusion that exists in the world of which he is a part. The Butterfields, for example, attempt to dampen David's passion for their daughter Jade; however, they allowed him from the start to stay overnight, and, indeed,even bought Jade a double bed so that they could be more "comfortable." The symbolism is evident in the waspish name of "butterfield"; he is a conventional physician and she a writer for The New Yorker who together just happen to he into open sex and drugs. As the story continues, David breaks parole in order to search for his eternallove,Jade. He finds the Butrerfields in New York where Hugh spots him and, in an attempt to run after him, is killed by a car. After the funeral, Jade and David have a passionate, all-night reunion, and soon after enter a communal student rooming house in Vermont. Jade soon .discovers the details of her father's death, and calls the police, who take David away. He is committed to various mental hospitals where he hears of Jade's eventual marriage and move to Paris. He then turns into a dedicated erotomaniac, taking part in, wild li~isonswith several fe.male inmates. Afte~ seven years (a lucky number?), lie IS released, and begms to make a new hfe for htmself. In the end, he writes an imaginary letter to Jade:· It is night and I am alone and there is still time, a moment more. My arms open wide, 1'\ot to embrace you, but to embrace the world, the mystery we are caught in. There is no orchestra, no audience; it is an empty theatre in the middle of the night and all the clocks in the world are tickmg. The world may be "mad," but David Axelrod surely is not. Scott Spencer creates in him a character at whom we laugh at...one moment, and for whom in ne next vre find flurcdv.es feeling lhe utmost sorrow. Love, like En dies, I'"'<-, can kave us with a multitude of feelings.  John Talbot makes music for the soul Ten years ago he was playing with tians can come together and experi­a band. Today he is playing alone. ence the community and bond that Ten years ago he performed for isn't aways felt in the every day thousands. Today he prefers intimate college life for most. And he accom­gatherings. Ten years ago John plishes this fear with a striking Micheal Talbot thought he had amount of musical genius coupled reached the summit of success and with a courageous ef£Jrt to meet the happiness. Today he is sure of it. challenge of the belief he supports in his sacrificing lifestyle. .Talbot performs Friday at 8 p.m., One critic stated, ''InJohn Micheal in the Library Auditorium. There is Talbot's hands ... one guitar seems to no admission charge. become many--providing a dramaticHe is someone who has exper­background for his , clear, . melodic ienced more in a decade than most of voice and expressive lifrics.'' Talbot's us will in an entire lifetime. Together maturing is eviden( in· the st~adywith his brother Terry, John led a progression. of his albums, the first group called "Mason Profit" in the titled simply ''John Micheal TaJl:iot'' late sixties. The group typified the is a collection of poenis put to music. flavor of the youth with a cry of social · reform; emphasizing the inhumanity of a mechanized society. A top folk-rock band, Mason Profit en­joyed a national sucess. Just as the group was on the verge of crossing the bridge to super-star­dom, it mysteriously disbanded and John Micheal Talbot, a very discour­aged young man, faced the apathy of the seventies with. many unanswered questions. After swaddling in Eastern cults for some time, Talbot thought he had run the gammit of religions and beliefs and was on the verge of giving up. On the brink of despair, he found "both practical and mystical answers to his questions in the simple love ofJesus Christ''. In the spirit of Augustine, Aquin­After much study of the Scripture as, and Merton, Talbot's only po­and the writings of the Church sessions today are his guitar and thefathers, Talbot converted to Catholi­clothes on his back. Hts example ofcism and js presently a third order self-sacrifice has become a model for lay Franciscan monk. others who desire a deeper meaningRather than pollute the world with of the "sacrificial life of Christ in one more religious trip, Talbot mere­_ normal day-to-day life in our so­ly wants to help normal people to ciety.'' He admits that this -lifestyle is attain the joy that proceeds only from not for everyone, and he is by nofellowship with God's Son and his means attempting to squeeze anyonePeople. -into a particular mold. In his concerts, Talbot .attempts to Kelli Conlin  

--..........-~---~--­
•· 

Robert Ba<..·k create at;.,;c;phere where Chris-
J an 
-=--:::.-!=====,..-;=-~~iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiDiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii--iiiiiiiiiHiiiii-iiiiiiiiiMiiiiiiiiiiiiii~·-.
·-__ ___ _ 
~~~ 
.. 

-·-..... •-~ -4,-. OT ... -., ··--.... """---..·--.-.----.-·-• ... ~­
0-:••••• .............................. ••• : .-. .... .,
~ ~ 
.. 

The Observer 



ATTENTION MATH 

COMPUTER SCIENCE BUSINESS MAJORS!!! 
COMING To The St. Mary's Campus March 11 And The Notre Dame Campus March 12-13 
FIRM 
QUALIFICATIONS 

Hewitt Associates is a national Management Consulting and Actuarial Firm headquartered in Lincolnshire, a northern suburb of Chicago. We consult in all aspects of total compensation to 1nclude the planning, design, administration, hnanc1al management, and communication of both employee benefits and pay. 
A degree in Business, Mathematics, Computer Science (or related quantitative fields) and a pattern of scholastic achievement qualify you for consideration. 
DATA ADMINISTRATOR: 
Initial responsibilities locus on analyzing arid interpreting docu­ments which describe features of Profit Shanng or Stock Accumu­lation Plans, all record-keeping functions in compliance with plan pffivisions, editing input data lorvalidity, designing plan account­ing reports, and prepanng adm1n1strat1ve manuals. 
BENEFIT ANALYST: 
You will verily the correctness of data for Benefit Statements based on program specifications and plan prov1s1ons by creating a set of test data to exercise all of a program's stated functions. 
ACTUARIAL ASSISTANT: 
Primary responsibilities locus on employee ben~lit plan analyses and benefit calculations, evaluating the investment performance of pension assets, and determining the relative value of a com­pany's total benefit program against a developed standard. 
DATA BASE ASSISTANTS: 
Six to nine hours of computer science courses may assist you in analyzing, editing, and compiling computerized personnel data lor Pension and Profit Sharing plans. · 
PLAN ADMINISTRATION SPECIALIST: 
You will be involved in the benefit calculations for Profit Sharing or 
Thrift Savings Plan as well as the calculation of individual_beneflts 
lor Retirement Plans and the preparation of government flhngs. 
Positions offer attract1ve growth opportunities, professional envi­
ronment, and excellent salaries and benefits package. 
The placement office will schedule interview times. If you are unable to attend, please call or write Linda Lagerstrom or Nancy Dickinson at: (312) 295-5000, Hewitt Associates, 1~0 Half Day Road, Lincolnshire, 1L 60015. An Equal Opportumty Em­ployer M/F/H. 
I I Hewitt Associates 
I I I 
Thursday, March 6, 1980 -page 12 

Goodnews ... 




Science reprieves saccharin 
BOSTON (AP) --People who 
drink artificially sweetened soft 
drinks and use other food 
containing saccharin face little 
or no unusual risk of developing 
cancer of the bladder, two new 
studies conclude. 

A .,rudy of 1,118 people, conducted at the Harvard school of Public H:ealth, is the latest in a series that fails to show any broad link between the controvershtl sweetener and bladder cancer. 
A similar study of 367 blad­der cancer patients by the non-profit American Health Foundation, to be published in the Journal of Science on Friday, reaches the same con­cluc;ion. 
"Taken together, the results to date support the conclusion that the use of artificial sweet­eners is not an important risk-factor for bladder cancer," the Harvard researchers said. 
The reviews were undertaken after scientists discovered that large doses of saccharin cause bladder cancer in rats. D!et drink bottlers mu.st label their soda with warnings of the lal:. animal results. 
Despite the latest findings,a federal cancer expert urged that nondiabetic children and pregnant women avoid sac­charin. 
The Harvard doctors were not sure why saccharin makes rats sick but not humans. They speculated that the reason may s1mply be that rats are different from people. Or lJ!jYbe sacchrin is such a slow-acting cancer cause that its bad effects have not yet appeared. 
Sacchann has been widely used since the 1960s. The researchers noted that it took 30 to 50 years for health officials to spot the danger when some occupational hazards caused bladder cancer. 
... about Cancer 

Treatmentoffers hope 
INDIANAPOLIS (AP) -Human t~.sting of a drug which eases the .symptoms that often accompany cancer treatment could resume this summer, a medical reseracher says. 
Plans call for the synthetic drug Nabilone to be given each month to 10 patient.> at the Indiana University Medial Center who are undergoing chemotherapy for cancer of the testicles, sa1d Dr. Lawrence Einhorn, a profe.ssor at IU Medical School. Later the drug could be given to patient.> with other forms of cancer, he said. 
Einhorn said he learned of the tentative June targrt date from Dr. Paul Stark, a re.searcher for Eli Lilly & Co. who i.s involved in developing the drug. 
Lilly, one of the world'.s 
largest pharmaceutical com­
panies, .stopped all clinical 
te.sting of Nabilone in January 
1979 after it proved toxic and 
sometimes fatal to dogs during 
long-term experiments invol­
ving large doses of the drug. 
Russ Durbin, a spokesman for Lilly, confirmed that th~ company i.s hopeful of .pro­ceeding with tesung on humans this summer. But he :said the final decision hinges on tests on laboratory monkeys, whose­metabolic response to Nabilone closely resembles that of humans. 
Lilly researchers said the principal side effect.> of Nabilone arc drowsiness, temporary light-headednes.>, and a drop in blood pressure when the patient gets up. 
}Ufltors: sign up for the Junior class mixed doubles pool tournament finals at Nickies 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 


I 1st prize-$25.00 1 

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~d 
to regtster your team, call pam at 7303 or go to the secretary at student activities in Iafortune. 

leave your names and phone nos. for more info:-·" call donna at 7933 or tom at 1189 



'I 

., 
I 
1 

2
• 


corr~ctton 
Grace Hall would like to make a correction on the pos­ters announcing the speech by Sr. Jean Lenz. Lenz will speak next Thursday rather than to­night. 


Mona, there's more to insurance than selling policies. Insurance is
... Track 

opportunity. 
State Farm is 
you're
[continued from page 16] 
looking for people putting
John Filosa, and Marc Novak 
interested in a data me on. ·­
are all scheduled to compete in 
processing career. I 
the two-mile event. 
don't have a computer
Ahmad Kazimi figures to 

science .degree but Ido
place well in the triple jump after last weekend's perform­
have six hours of data 
ance in which he leaped a 
processing courses. So 
Noway, Mona. State Farm is looking for men 
The Observer 
• • • Candidates 
[continued from page 3] 
vote to 2) percent fo:r Kennedy. 
Kennedy, saying he had a lift 
for his campaign and his issues, 
turned his effort to New York 
State on Wednesday, seeking 
support in a March 2) primary 
that is one of hi3 major targets. 
Carter 3aid he was ready to compete for 418 Democratic delegates in 10 states, where primaries will be held or multi­step delegilte-selection caucu­se3 will get under way next week. 
White House press secretary 
Collegium Musicum presents concert tonight 
gamba.
T~e Notre Dame Collegium Tonight's program will focusMustcum, a vocal and instru­on music of the Spanish ren­mental group dedicated to the naisance and will include an

silil:ly and performance of Ren­aissance music, will present a entire mass by Cristobal Mor­
ales. The program will alsopublic concert tonight at 8: 1) in feature works by Victoria, Esco­the Great Hall of O'Shaughn­essy Hall. 
bedo, de la Torre and Urrede. The group has been directed since the summer of 1978 by Dr. Ethan Haimo~ assistant 
J ody Powell said in Boston that Mas3achusetts didn't do Ken­nedy that much good nationally because the challenger's first victory came from his own Senate constituents. 
"I don't believe folks would view a Carter win in Georgia as a major event on the political horizon," he sai~. 
Carter expects a victory there 
next Tuesday, when adjacent 
Florida and Alabama hold their 
primaries as well. Kennedy is 
investing little effort in those 
contests in the the president's 
home territory. 
Kennedy captured 77 Demo­cratic nominating votes in Mas­sachusetts, to 34 for Carter. That gave him the lead nation­ally, with 113 delegates to Carter's 89. But that margin won't survive the South, and Carter campaigners said the president already is guaranteed another)) delegates in Minne­sota, although they have not yet been formally selected. 
While the Democrats argued about their race, the Republi­cans reshaped theirs. Ander­son, the white-haired liberal congressman from Illinois, said he had established himc>elf in the front rank of contenders for the GOP nomination by coming so close to the early leaders, Bush and Reagan. In Massa­chusetts, Bush edged him by 1,236 votes out of nearly 400,000 cast. Reagan took Ver­mont by a margin of 598 ballots in a GOP primary that drew more than 6_2,000 voters. 
In Massachusetts, Bush got 14 Republican delegates, Reagan 
and Anderson 13 apiece.  
B.ut  Anderson  3aid  he  had  
gamed  ~trength  beyond  any 
expectations.  

Thursday, March 6, 1980 -page 13 


Mona, I've finally State Farm? 
professor of music at Notre Dame. The group includes an 
decided where I'd like Great Plowshares! 
18-voice chotr, vocal soloists, 
to make my You're going to be 
and and instrumental ensemble 
a soil tiller.
of recorders, lute, and viola da 



Grace announces 
personal best 48 feet, 3/4 
I qualify! 

mches. 
STATE FARM
Brian McAuliffe joins Kazimi to give Notre Dame a powerful one-two punch. 

INSURANCE
Perry Stow and Steve Chron­
") 

ert will both compete in the pole vault competition with hopes of picking up some much needed points for the team totals. 
and women with
''Iowa is solid where we are 

any degree and
marginal and we are solid where they are marginal. Con­
six to nine hours 
sequently, the meet appears to 
~~>-... of data process­be a verv close one. It will 
ing courses. 

definitely ~ome down to the last 
Of course,

few events before the outcome 
you've got to

is decided," states Assistant Coach Ed Kelly. 
interested in A big question mark for 
a data 
Notre Dame is the status of 
processing
sophomore Bill Ribera. he may 
career.
not race tomorrow due to a sore achilles. Both Piane and Ket:, !tad hoped that Ribera could take a point or two in the 300 meter race. 
''There is a lot of pressure on 
Gr~nd Old. Party dele~ates formulate strategy_ after heanng promznent Republtcans speak last night. [photo by Dave Rumbach.] 
Come on now! State Farm is 
VirgiL you're goingan insurance to be a salesman? 
How could you? 
Even if they'd 
have you ... 
Good grief! They're 
No. but they're also interested in people in mathematics, accounting, law and 
actuarial sciences. 

•
Incidentally, the pay is great! 
Uh, Virgil, wear a clean pair of jeans to the interview. 

To get details on career opportunities for computer programmer analysts and auditors contact 
.:>ur guys," comments Kelly. 
your Campus Placement Director or visit the State Farm Recruiter. Our representative will loe
"We're going to have to out­
oncampus MARCH 13
perform as a team if we hope to 
STATE FARM INSURANCE COMf'ANitS. Home Offices: Bloomington, Illinois. An Equal Opportunity Employer. 
IVin." 
-



The Observer -SportsBoard Thursday, March 6, 1980 -page 14 

r 
Doonesbury 
.. ANO HIS JWR-Pf?EJTY 8/ZA/l.Re NAi.S 60 aEAR STlJfF. 8IfT )(}() eACJ<TDHtsfAR-M6HT JIJ5T 

r . 
I 
r I 

Molarity 
I'M CoNC€RNf.T>, CHERYL. 
FoR 711£ LAST' No LVtiS !fiTCH 
liAS PLAYl:P PINBALL 1NST£Al> OF WDRI<!NbO'V HIS 1£Rf1FY!PfR. COOLD YOU [X) 60HET!IING To 
: 6E.T UtS ATTENnDN AWAY 
I 


The Daily Crossword 
© 1980 by Chicago Tribune·N.Y. News Synd. inc. All Rights Reserved 
'!V11 K/001/116! R16HT. 81./TIN C45C 7HIS BOoK fff)()E5N'r; I€Re'S MU tum£3 MYOFF£5R: rtL [)f­

by Garry Trudeau 
/fQ'ffii?E, YfX/GOT 



by Michael Molinelli 


ACROSS 25 Propounds 1 Limp watch 28 Realty unit artist 30 Uncle Sam's 5 Rhyme publisher scheme 33 Mete 
10 Group with 34 Beige a common 35 Mr. Hoffer cause 36 impromptu 
14 Hep 39 -off 15 Pacifists (golfs) 16 Orchestra 40 Yet again 
memuer 41 Family 17 Annoying member one 42 Dunderhead 18 Varnish 43 Ne1ghbor 
ingredient of Can. 19 At sea 44 Wish undone 20 Impromptu 45 Family 23 Go bad member 24 Acknowledge 46 Attention 
Yesterday's Puzzle Solved: 
SPARSISTYISOBER 
C A G E R H E E E R 0 D E 
A P 0 L 0 G I E S V A N E S 
LARA.ANT.RELENT PLAYWITHFIAE··· ETO.APE.BIB ARMEO •• ACE.TALE 
L 0 0 K S F 0 A T A 0 U B L E 
T A P E-_ 0 K A -A B Y S S ORE.ERI.PIT -TAKESACHANCE CAAESS.T I E.GEES AGE N TIC,!LNIS 0 NAN T 
TEASE AJ:_E VERSE 0 0 D E R B E D A S S E S 
3/.6/80 
Attention ALL JUNIORS!II 
\1ake your appointment for your yearbook portrait today. 
CALL3557, or stop by 2C LaFortune, off the ballroom. 
THERE WILL BE A $1.00 SITTING FEE· 

IT IS ~IMPORTANT THAT ALL JUNIORS MAKE THEIR APPOINTMENTS IMMEDIATELVII PI_ EASE DO IT NOW 
47 Impromptu 21 Excelsior, 55 -about for one 56 Carpenter's 22 Sheepfold 
joint creature 57 Church 25 Rigatoni, 
feature for example 58 Prima donna 26 Wine flasks 59 French 27 Pivots 
historian 28 Longing 60 lpil or feelings 
upas 29 Ship's 61 Stopover complement 62 Senior 30 Ms. Garson 63 Was persua· 31 --nez 
sive 32 Eightsome 34 Famed DOWN volcano 1 Gullible 35 They change 
one countries 2 Culmination 37 High· 3 Perdu pitched 4 Room decors voice 5 Skilled 38 -a time 
ones 43 Publicize 6 Machete's 44 Carl or Rob relative 45 Florist's 
7 State creation positively 47 Gram or 8 Church dram feature 48 -Scotia 
9 Pons -49 Supper (geometric 50 Ms. Bagnold proposition) 51 Wound up 
10 Punctuation 52 South Sea 
mark staple 11 -ben Adhem 53 Kmevel 12 Lichen 54 Exploit 13 Favonte 55 Gl wear 
Interhall 



Track today 
The lnterhall Track Meet will be held today at 6 p.m. in the ACC Fieldhouse. Participants should be dressed and ready for running events which will be in the following order: 60-yd. low hurdles, 4-lap relay, mile­run, 60-yd, dash, 440-yd. run, 880-yd, run, and 8-lap relay. ~oth field events, the high Jump and the long jump will begm at 6 p.m. 
CO REC RACQUETBALL 
DOUBLES 
Goyette (1183)-Bialek (8050) v. Brown (227-0671) · Dorney (6987) 
MEN'S RACQUETBALL DOUBLES 
Reagan (8375) · Dezdenka (8489) v. (1109) · Hatfield (2255) ·""1 
McAward (7252) -Basso (3231 )"" v. Slatt (1725) -Philbin (1652) 
WOMEN'S RACQUETBALL 
DOUBLES 
Owens (1884)-Kehoe (1884) v. O'Conno1 (6500)-Abt (3821) 


More Personals 
Congradulations to the new Domt editor. 
. I Maggie May O'Neill,I Congratualtlons to a wonderful frl­1end and future RA!! 
love, \Cindy, Donna, Susan, Terri, Susie, 
Patty BRADY MULHOLLAND LEWIS PREZIO JUNIOR CLASS OFFICERS 
-PTuscaroi(TesYm7 caTa"l-:-:~;tr~ 
Conon)­Happy 20th Birthday you fox you! Hope it's wild! 
Love, Your 3 Farley Roomates (Could we ever expect ot achieve 'fox status such as yours? 
Wednesday Nigth Features Staff tips their hats off to our Ceil. 
SENIOR GIRLS-If you ask JON KELLY to the Senior Formal you just pay for half of the bid (that is $25) Offer expires this seme­ster-Hurry! 
BEV, HAPPY ANNIVERSARY BABYII GOT YOU ON MY MI-HINDII MICHAEL 
JUNIORS: Mary Beth Sterling promises to wear her mouse ears during the USC game. Get your $50 deposit In during the week of March 10-14 so you can witness this event. 
To Chuck Wood and all the Garg, Thank you all very much. I love you all. Mike 
HLEP!!!Need lilt to Lincoln to see game. Will trade for place to stay of$. · Call Jack 1949. 
VOTE: NUNNELLEY LEARY LEITZINGI;R JENNINGS 




:.r~Be..J·:u~=~ 
E THEATRE 18fr..&l78 
ST. JttAkY'S CO.£.£eGe 

!II!RR' 

SMTT.'IUI 
Fa 29Hlarlck 1-6-7-8 $4.00 ($3.00 &td/6oe/&fti) 
~.........................................................." 

I 
i 


I NEED SIX GRADUATION TICKETS. 
CALL DICK AT 232-6831.

Notices 
Need riders to nj leaving Fri. Mar. 7.
Last chance-NJ Club Bus has spaces 
Call John 233-6370.
left! Call Chris at 1178 and Kevin at 
1166 for reservations. 
Need riders to OSU Columbus. Ohio area this weekend. Call Jon at 1188.
TYPING PLUS. Term papers, theses, 
dissertations. Light editing, ghost Need ride to Ohio U. area or Cincin­writing. Literary search, bibliograph­
nati, March 14. Please call Chris at
ies. genealogies. Job resume service. 
2103.

Sliding rate scale based on lead time. 
Special discounts on full contract tor WANTED: need ride to Champaign­these and dissertations. aardvark auto­Urbana on March 7th. Mark 1764.
matic solutions/p.o. box 1204 46624/ ' 
~ phone (219) 289-6753. -------------­
Need ride to Toledo or Columbus, OH Tii8siiivTSNo=s~ic-DayatiiOval March 6 or 7. Call Maria 6925. Valley Ski resort! 2 tor 1 lift tickets 3-10 p.m., also 2 for 1 7-10 p.m. LOST: Green stocking cap. Disappear­M-Tu-Th. 2chair lifts. CLOSESTS SKI ed from coat pocket Wed. lunch, West AREA TO CAMPUS. Buchanan, Mich. Side SDH. Of great personal value. 
Call Steve M. 6708.
-~-------------­
Will do typing, neat, accurate. Call 
287-5162. Need two rides to South Florida, Miami, Ft. Lauderdale for Spring break. Will share expenses. Call Steve at 1062.

Lost&Found 
Need ride to/from Massachusetts for 
spring break. Call SMC-4960. LOST: Turquoise ring with a silver band. Call Anne 1274. Need ride to Phila area for break. Call 
Kathy 1260. LOST: At DePaul game, one Pierre­Cardin glass case. Call 8785. If you are worried about survival, start thinking health and wealth. LIGHT­
HEY-I can't see the real youit I don't FORCED and your life force work get my glasses!! May have lost tham a together to produce the best nutrition at 621 Napoleon Fri. Call 3047. which brings you cash/bonus every 
month. Keep you own hours. Be yourLOST: Glasses in Black case. Possibly own boss. Send brief resume to : Pat in Eng. Aud., SDH, or Bookstore? If Bailey, 514 S. Edward, Mt. Prospect,found, call Mike, 1609. Illinois, 60056. Or call LIGHTFORCE 
(312) 870-1146 tor further information. LOST: Red and white ski jacket at 806 St. Louis St. Sat night, any infor on­Need ride to Phila. for Spring Break. please call 4619. Desperately need Call Vince 8831. keys. Film in camera has sentimental value. No questions asked. Please at Need ride to Miami for Spring Break. 
least mail keys and film to 752 Will share ss: Please call 233-2201 LeMans. Thank you. after 11 p.m. 
LOST: 14k gold serpentine bracelet Need ride to central Jersey for break. with a gold "D" charm. Call Debbie Will share expenses. Call Cathy 4789. 7659. 
Need riders to Champaign, U. of Ill. LOST: Ruby ring with gold band. March 14-16. Call Martha 41-4302. Reward. Call Paul at 7336. 
Need ride for two to Detroit Ann Arbor area Fri. Mar. 7. Please call Carol 3848.

For Sale 
Minolta Sr T 200 For sale; Call Barbara 

Personals
232-4378. 
Got a blank space on your wall? Fill it As God is my witness,' I shall never print
with color basketball aciton photos. All another shot of a cheerleader again.
players, all sizes. CHEAP. Not avail­able from Ronco or K-Tel. Call 8932. Ryan "pom-pom" VerBerkmoes 
DOME greenhouse. 16 ft. diameter, 
$200. Price includes help with constru­Spider,
ction. Call X7213 days, 232-0634 We.' re proud of you and we love 
evenings. 
you'! Happy Birthday love,FlASH: Photographic equipment tor The Webettes 
sale--fantastic bargains! --cameras. 
lenses. Call 232-4129. 
Mike Burke. 
Yoiu are a champion in my eyes. Good luck in the Bengals tonite!! (and hopefully on Sunday, too)

Wanted 
Love, 

Your number one fan Friendly dog needs ride St. Louis­Adrienne (alias kathryn South Bend. Will share expenses. ---.------------­
288-9277. Dear Boys. 
I am really sorry that Fido didn't I need a ride to Philadelphia OVER make it in ...It wasn't my fault! Spring break. Willing to share gas S BP and driving. I am able to leave Wed. [3126] or later. Please call Joe at 6726. KULP HAS ANSWERED!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
Need one-way ride tor two to Daytona Bridgets thinks you need a break! tor spring break. Can leave at 12:30 on Happy Hour from 4-7 daily. Quarter Thurs. 27th. Call 6778. 
beers 9:30-10:30 nitely. Now that's a deal! 
Need ride to DC area for spring break. 
Teacher,Will pay. John 3084. 

There's something to be said about crowds-but I can't say it!
Moving off-campus next year? 3-6 
"The Beginner" 

bedroom house~ for rent. Call Tim 
283-8682. ---------------­
Bob Bernoskie, 
Thank you so much. You're a realTwo need ride east on 1-80 Spring sweetheart.
Break. Call Karen 6779. 
.l:tnP.I 

To the girl in the green swimsuit Sunday afternoon whose friend didn't need a bathingcap-l'd really like to meet you. Respond through personals how I can get in touch, OK ... 
Busy Babysitter 

Attention Hockey Fans: Experience ALUMNI's "Killin' of Dillon" PEP RALLY-PARTY on Sat. mar 8. 
Organizational meeting of Notre Dame South Bend bicycle race, Thurs. Mar. 6 Room 2D 8 p.m. LaFortune. For more information call 234-0467. 
Pigs, 

Thanks again for an excellent time. I'II work on smoothing up my really suave good-nights. 0 K? fine. 
Jim 
James-

Thanks tor the personal. I know it came from the bottom of your heart. YoutooTJ' 
Love, 
Beth 

3rd year Business major needed. once a month, 3 months, to explain budget operating statement. 
Contact Volunteer Services 7308 
TUTORS NEEDED: 

1. 
High school student, Algebra-Geo­metry II. 

2. 
Student preparing forGED test. Contact Volunteer Service-7308. 


"Make a wish" come true. Listen to TOM CHAOIN this Sat. at the SMC Little Theatre. 
Uncle Sam wants YOU: To elect Mr. Bill as UMOC. 

To whoever pretended to be my date at 309 Stonemill at L)D. Thank you VERY mcuh. You're a very nice guy!! 
Shawn K. 
Like to party but can't afford it on a student budget? Bridgets serves up $.25 drafts from 9:30-10:30 flitely. ~ring a crowd. 
SAVE HOCKEY BAND!!Thanks for playing Happy Birthday. You're the greatestv• 
Molly and Molly 
TOOTS 

It was a wonderful night for a romance. Thanks!!Next time I'll bring jeans. 
Leisal, You· re the best room mate no matter what! Love you, Marga 
M.P. Just to let you know who I'm thinking about at 4 am. Lisa Good luck being me. 
P.C., Gotcha again!!! Guess what was sup­posed to be in this space?!?!! 
TO BROK: • All the AO 's wish you a Happy 21st, even though you were MlA tor your 20th. 
Mary Jo Kadleck, 

Sorry I forgot your birthday\ We'll have to go out for dinner to celebrate belatedly, OK? 
You "Big Sis" 

JACK AND BOB, Thanks for a great time Fri. night. Patty and Lisa 
Teri M.. Eric S. Suesi H., and Angela 
W., 
Congratulations RA's Love, Susette (Susie) 
Time and his Bosslady:  AMY MORRIS  
Thanks for the wishes. As for when  Congrats!!Yot!'ll be a great RAI  
the big day is-1'11 never tell.  Watch out McCandless.  
Lynn  
Bof and Midol:  
Jean,  We sure had a great wee1end. How  
about this summer in L.G. Thanks!  
Love, Mike  Love ya Betty  
LAST CHANCE-NJ club bus has  Nini: ,.,  
spaces left! Call Chris at 1178 and Kevin at 1166 for reservations.  Soph. Parent Weekend was the great­est. You did a super job! How about  
next year? 
Today is Carol Coxon's birthday. All N D guys should give that lovely  YLR  
Minnesotan a great big mushy kiss.  CHERYL  
Guess who  Happy Belated B-Day to a Co-Cheese  
Chower.  
Attention Mellow Ed and Pittsburgh Dentist-Due to the Mock Republican Con­ Love ya, Prep 1and 2  
vention the Thursday night club will meet later on Thursday. signed ' The officers  Steve for BGOC (Biggest Geek on Campus( Shortest, fattest, cockiest gee~ to waddle on campus. Paid political announcement by Geek Klux Kian ~  
KULPIES UNITE--WRITE FOR AN  
AUTOGRAPHED PICTURE--CALL  ROSES ARE RED  
501 GRACE FOR MORE INFO.  VIOLETS ARE BLUE  
Senior Arts FESTIVALS-MUSIC-PER­ WHO'S ALL RIGHT? JIM CARPENTER .THAT'S WHO!  
FROMANCES--sign-up deadline  
March 10th. Call Laura 1674.  NAZZ music competition-Fri. night  
To the High School Senior in Morris­ at 8 p.m. Five winners will play Sat. night at 8 p.m.  
sey: Good luck tonight.  
Liz Crudo,  Tom, Kevin and Joe, A champagne cocktail hour, an open 
Happy Birthday  bar formal, three handsome men and  
Love Rico and Paul  omlettes and crud (for some)! What more could three voluptuous SMC  
Female cooks wanted:four eligible  women ask for? Thanks-we all had a gret time.  
bachelors need attractive female types to supply them badle need noursih­ Love and Kisses Mary, Eileen and Bobbi  
ment. Apply at 914 Cedar St., other­ P.S. No more visits until we get the  
wise known as Cedar Manor. Please Hurry. Mike. Mark, Mike, Gregg  proper woodtype nails. P.SS. Yaki, ouest Ia lounge? P.SSS. If you're ever in the girl's  
Ahmad,  bathroom at Corby's be sure and check ou the wall.  
Good Luck tomorrow. We'll be waiting  P. SSSS. Bob, the bacon was great. 
with Michelobs  
The marshmallow Chicks  FOR THOSE OF YOU STILL WON­ 
iiE"YJ"uNiolis~~-;-f;s!~~;ti~at; to a great Senior year:  DERING SCOOP SULLIVAN IS A­LIVE AND WELL AND LIVING IN THE 911 CLUB. THANK YOU FOR  
NUNNELLEY LEARY LEITZINGER  YOUR CONCERN. __ ,.· Scoop ...  
JENNINGS  KULP KULP KU.LP KULP KULP  
ROCKY Show 'em what an ITALIAN STAL­LION can do! We want a knock-out!  Gidget, Roses are Red, Violets are Blue, 
Love. Diamonds, Emeralds and Rubies P.S, See you at midnight for bagels and cream cheese.  Being little Gidget is great, Since Big Gidget is you! Happy 21st with Love, Little Gidget  
TIMMY BRODERICK-Little Gipper knock 'em dead! We're rooting for you! ~ Love, GiGi, Mary and Susan  Jafe, Jafe, Grandma's Cookie Cubicle and Dave, Good luck up in Ann Arbor! I'm sure you'll be psyched to know that I might maked it up there. I might have to put  
Bill, Happy Birthday!! MER  on two layers of leather since I'II be thumbing my way up. How about some post-game partying? What's my souv­enir this week?  1 1  


(and you thought I forgot)  IRENE  
Color Basketball pictures available. All  ,  Trish the Dish  
games, including DePaul and mary<  Hey Texan beauty, will you invite me  
land thrillers. All sizes. Cheap. Call  to discuss politics in you jacuzzi over  
8932.  break?  
Call me  
The Great Books-the grea minds.  
Meet faculty and students of the  Barracuda Bob Murphy  
General Program of Liberal Studies,  Thanks so much for the dinner Sat  
Mon. Mar. 10, 7:30p.m., Grace Pit.  night. I expecially loved those pep  
pers. Next time, please remind me to  
Senior Class presents another Pulaski  bring a fire extinguisher.  
Post Party Fri., Mar. 7th 9-? $.25  Yours (till the White House),  
beers all night. 1606 W. Western Ave.  Bunz  
P.S. Don't forget to sharpen your teeth  
Earlobe,  for next weekend.  
Thanks tor lunch. MacD's was great!  
Love,  ATTENTION: Colleen Sloan, Mary  
Harold, Bottle, and Curb  Kasper, Richard Freeman, Lynne  
Anne Daley, Edward Holden, George  
Dear Corral Hallites- Keenan, Nancy Russell, Molly  
You sure know how to throw a Happy  Woulfe, Michael Monk, Kathy Vick,  
Hour, I just woke up! When's the next  Thomas Hay, Pat Byrnes, Mary Calla­ 
one?  han-If you don't pitk up your old pay  
"Little Lock" and friends  checks I'm going to cancel them.  
P.S. Anyone for a game of 'Quarters?'  ~ . _.. Sincerely .The LORirOIIBr  

~ 
I, l 
~ 
1 
~~ -----,.~~·----~~ -.-~--····­
-----.
~--~ ~ -~­
The Observer Thursday, March 6, 1980 -page 15 
[continued from page 16] 
steck duel before veterans Fritz Fisher and John Stephens engage in what should be one of the best fights of the evening. Law-student Steph~ns will pit his power against Fisher's quickness. 
147 POUNDS: Tony Ricci con­
. .-Pugilists 
tinues his quest for a fourth championship against freshman Mike Mulligan. John Donovan will challenge returning finalist Tom Bush in the other 147 pound match. 
150 POUNDS: Brian Kilb was the 147 pound champion as a freshman. He has been frustra­ted the past rwo years and now . is anxious to leave Notre Dame ' a winner. Junior Jim McCaf­frey has the talent to end his hopes. In the second bout, Jim Mladenik meets rookie Ted Meyers. 
155 POUNDS: Pete "Doc Rock'' DeCelles, with another knockout to his credit after Sunday, boxes Batry Tharp. The feature fight in this division will be tall and slender Chris Digan utilizing his long . jab against the knockout punch of Mike Marrone. 
160 POUNDS: Law student Tom McCabe meets rookie Mark Leising and veterans Tony Cortese and Jim Nester fight in this weight class. 
165 POUNDS: Lefty Jimbo Devine looks to reach the finals for the third consecutive year a~ainst Rick Keenan and no­vtces Doug Maihafer and Dan Flynn fight in what should be a real brawl. 
170 POUNbS: The intimidat­ing Mike Pullano makes his first 1980 Bengal appearance versus Mark Kirasich in the first 170 pound match. And veteran Glenn Pacek challenges cheerleader Mike Budd in the second. 
175 POUNDS: This is the wide-open division of the tour­nament. Four first-year boxers bid for the finals as Mike Burke duels Tonay Aiello and Irish guardsman Bob Stewart fights Jim Burel bach. 
HEAVYWEIGHT: The fists are sure to fly in this one as former gridder Pat Boggs pits his strength against walk-on Mike Walsh. 
So, be sure to attend tonight's semi-finals of the Bengal Bouts, for, "You'll see boys fight their hearts out for pnde and the pure sport of boxing." 
All classified ads must be received by 5:00p.m.. two days prior 
to the issue in which the ad is run. The Observer office will accept 
classifieds Monday through Friday, 10:00 a.m. to 5;00 p.m. All 
classifieds must be pre-paid, either in person or through the mail.






Classifieds 


Thursday, March 6, 1980 -page 16

SJ2orts 

Doctor Maggie Lally: good thing in a small package 
by Frank LaGrotta here at Notre Dame and .she .see Sports Wn"ter her role on the team as that of a ''quarterback.'' 
J uliu.s Erving i.s tall and lean, I gue.s.s my re.spon.sibility i.s to 
.sport.s an Afro, dunk.s without direct the offen.se," she 
thinking, and they call him the re.sponds. "My partner in the 
Docror. backcourt, Molly Cashman, is 
Maggie Lally is short and really cool and confident and 
lithe. wtth .straight blond hair. .she really helps me keep my couldn't dunk on a step ladder,. head in the game.'' and they call her the Doctor ... or "Maggie is one of the best they will very soon. ballhandlers I've ever seen on 
Lally, the junior point guard the college level,'' .say.s her 
on Notre Dame women'.s ba.s­coach Sharon Petro. "When 
ketball team, mixes athletic.s she wants to get the ball up the 
with her pre-med studies. And, court, there isn,.t a player in the 
like her .si.srer Carol who country that can .stop her. She 
.studied and played ba.sketball is a smart ball player and she 
at Notre Dame before her, never blame.s her mistakes on 
Maggie hope~ ro end up in a anyone else.'' 
white coat and stethoscope. Her basketball sense was 
"I've always wanted to be a much in evidence la.st Saturday 
doctor," she .say.> before prac­at the Ange!.t Athletic Facility 
tice. ·'The challen~e appeal.s to (SMC) where the Irish defeated 
me and I think It i.s a vt!:y Go.shen Colle~e to win the 
worthwhile profes.sion becau.se Indiana State utle. 
you can help people.'' "It was ju.st great," she .say.s. 
Si.ster Carol, a former co­"A big thrill. It wa.s something InAlAWregionals
captain of the Iri.sh cager.s, i.s we'd eyed all.sea.son long, then 
presently .studying medicine at it was our.s. It i.s great to get
the Univer.sity of Pitt.sburgh-­.something you've worked .so 
not very far from the Lally hard f0r.'' 
Women cagers face Greenville
homestead in Sharon, PA. 

Why then would a young lady But Maggie Lally ha.s_p habit 
.studying perhaps the mo.st of working hard and it .show.s on by Mark Hannuk.sela the favorite, seeded second in gures they ''need another game 
difficult curriculum that Notre the ba.sketball court and in her Sports Wn"ter the tournament. Greenville is like Saturday," referring to the 
Dame has ro offer, want to grade. transcripts. She's been also rated seventh in the latest win over Goshen, 80-66, which 
.spend three hour.> a day succe.ssful at everything she's At a school already rich in Division III poll, but Irish coach clinched the state title. "We 
sweating on the basketball put her mind to at Notre Dame sports. history, a new kid on the Sharon Petro is somewhat re­need to play our best ball if we 
court? and Petro calls it "character­block Is about to embark upon a lieved. are going to have any chance. '' 
"I played all though high i.stic of Maggie to work hard for chance to make room for itself ''This is one of the few times "One of the things we have to 
school and wanted to continue what .she want.s.'' in the Notre Dame record in my years here that we have do is stay loose," notes sopho­
when (got to Notre Dame," i.s For Lally, however, what she books. not entered the game as the more guard-forward Missy 
her an.swer. "I had five want.s mo.st it ro better Notre The new kid is actually a group favorite," Petro said. "With Conboy. "We are not used to 
brother.s and they really in­Dame for the people that follow of 12 women who play basket· everybody else we play the this kind of thing · it's pretry 
fluenced me a lot.'' her. ball. The first test will be pressure is on us, because big deal for us. 
Athletic.s ha.s been a way of "I want to contribute," she tonight, as the Irish face Green­everybody is out to 'beat Notre "We are going to have to think 
life for Lally .since grade .school, says earnestly. "I want to make ville College in the first round Dame'. While this philosophy a lot out on the court. We can't 
where she played ba.sketball, Notre Dame a little bit better of the AlA W Division III re­still exists, the greater pressure afford a lot of mental mistakes, 
softball, ran track and did ju.st for the people that come here. gional tournament, to be held at is with Greenville. We're going because we are going up a­
about every other thing listed Playing ba.sketball is one way to Taylor University at 8 f.m. in there looking to knock them gainst a team that plays a pretry 
on the back of your Wheatie.s do that.'' Greenville, winner o its se­0 ff. " steady ballgame." 
box. She claims .:;he like.s the Becoming a "doctor" is cond Illinois state title last For the Irish to win, Notre The team that started in the 
women' . .; ha . .;kt"thall orovram another. week. will enter the game as Dame assistant Bob Scott fi. state finals will go for the Irish 
again tonight; guards Molly 
Cashman and Maggie Lally,

Bengals continue forwards Kelly Hicks and Jane 
Politiski, and center Shari Mat­
Matvey continues to lead the team in scoring and rebound­


Pugilists now in semi-final round vey. 
ing, as she has all season, with 
averages of 18.1 and 10.0 

by LeoLatz tournament now srans only ball arena of the A.C.C., Napo­the finals. respectively. Her .583 shooting 
Sports Wn"ter three days instead o five. And litano's boxers will slug it out 133 POUNDS: Novice cham­percentage makes her the only 
now, the Bouts enjoy a colorful for the right to participate in pion Rich Hillsman challenges Irish player over . 500, and if 
In 1955, Dominick). "Nappy'' half-century of history. Despite Sunday afternoon's finals. The two-time finalist Rocky Romano that holds up she will set a new 
Napolitano and hi~ Notre Dame these changes, Budd Schul­semi-final ftght card features in the first 133 pound bout. Notre Dame record. boxers presented the annual berg's words could have been plenty of fast, furious action. Then, confident Mike Ruwe Politiski is the only other Irish Bengal Bout Award to Sports written yesterday instead of 25 125 POUNDS: Three-time fi. matches boxing talents with player in double figures with a Illustrated boxing writer Budd years ago, because "Nappy" nalist Doug Borgatti will meet returning runnerup Robert Ri­11.4 scoring average, and will Schulbcrg. At the time, Schul­Napolitano has remained a super quick sophomore J ojo vera. finish her career on top of the berg was the country's premier constant throughout the fifty Lucero and rookies Tim Bro­138 POUNDS: First, rookies Notre Dame scoring list. box1ng scribe. years of the Bengal Bouts. derick and Bob Murphy will Dan Mohan and Mike Marter-Coached by Phyllis Holmes, 
When Schulbr.-rg left Notre Tonight, at 8:00 in the basket-battle for the right to appear in Greenville has a 21-6 record Dame that March, he had a [continued on page 15] i:his season. Leading scorer and renewed hope for the future of rebounder for the Lady Pan­boxing. thers is Carolyn Parker, a 5·9 "Go see the Notre Dame forward averaging 20.8 points Bengal Bouts," emphasized and 10.5 rebounds per game.
Irish trackteam hostsindoorfinale
Schulberg in his weekly SI Guard Tina Krause is sconng at column. "You'll see boys battl­a 15.8 clip, while 5·11 center ing harder for the University by john Smith mile and two mile races. Diane Talbert averages 10.2
race. championships than some hea­Sports Writer ''This is going to be a very Chuck Aragon, who has al­points and 9.8 rebounds per 
vy weights have fought for the Tight meet," comments Irish ready qualified for the finals in game. championship of the world. The Notre Dame track team coach Joe Piane. ''They have Detroit, leads the list of Irish The Panthers advanced to the You' II see contestants beauti­is in training for their final very good sprinters and their runners in the half-mile. Join­regional with a 69-64 win over 
fully conditioned and boxing home meet indoors this season. mile relay team' has already ing Aragon are Tim Macauley, Augustana last weekend. under rules of safety precaution The dual meet against the qualified for the NCAAs. They who along with Aragon, Jay ''The most important things that have precluded any serious University of Iowa will be held have a freshman who runs the Miranda and Pete Burger has for us to do is get by tomor­
injury in the quarter-century this Friday in the North Dome 400 (meter race) in 47.4 (sec­qualified for the NCAAs on the row,'' Conboy concluded. history of the bouts. Here are of the ACC from 1:30 to 3:30 onds); they also have two high two-mile relay team, and Rick ''That would ease a lot of boys who will fight their hearts p.m. Long jump competition jumpers who have cleared 6' Rogers. people's minds. I think the key out in the five day tournament begins at 1:30 with other events 10''. Jim Slattery, Miranda, and to the tournament for us is for pride and the pure sport of scheduled to begin at 2:00p.m. Notre Dame will have to Burger will race the 1000. going to depend on how much it." Iowa brings 10 a lightning· score most of its points with its Kevm Kenny, Tony Hatherly, we want it. We may be under­
Some of the names and faces quick team, led by All-Big 10 strong suits. The Irish figure to and Burger are preparing .f~r dogs, but I still think our have changed since the publica­running back Dennis Mosely. place very well in the middle to the mile; and Aldo Bartomm, chances are good as anyone tion of that article. The Bengal Mosely will be competing in the longer distance events, includ­[continued on page 13] .else." 
60 meter dash and 300 meter ing the half-mile, 1000 meters, 







