, , , Musicviews -page 7 

VOL. XIV, NO. 75 
an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and saint mary's THURSDAY, JANUARY 31, 1980 

by Pat Toomey StaffReporter 
Apparently spurred on by yesterday's front page Observer article, students turned in $2,500 worth of Mardi Gras raffle tickets by last night. This amount raised the total raffle collection from $1,500 to $4,000. 
Before yesterday's collection, the outlook for this year's raffle was grim. On Tuesday night, Mardi Gras Business Manager Mike Day told a Hall Presi­dent's Council meeting that only 5 percent of the tickets were sold and 70 percent of them could not be accounted for. 
When Day's comments appeared in the Observer yes­terday, a flurry of activity began. Last evening's collec­tion yielded $2,500 and a com­plete accounting of all outstand­ing tickets. 
Mardi Gras Co.. ordinator Mike Hickey said he believes that the publicity generated by the Observer article prompted this activity. "Up to this point, not many people realized what the raffle was about,'' Hickey commented. "I think the article drew a lot of attention to it.'' 
Hickey said he hopes to match lastJear' s total of 20,000 tickets sol . "If every student bought just one ticket, we'd be fine," he said. "People can do it for United Way, why not for us.I" 
Hickey said that Mardi Gras is a particularly good cause because it aids CILA, Sr. 
Marita' s Day School, and many other local charities. Unlike most charities, it has no admin­istrative costs. 
[continued on page 5] 

Iran threatens hostages following Canadian rescue 
(AP) -Iran's foreign minister, angered by the daring Canad­ian rescue of six Americans trapped in Tehran, declared yesterday he expects the U.S. Embassy hostages to suffer for Canada's "duplicity." 
The estimated 50 hostages "most probably" will now be treated more harshly, Foreign Minister Sadegh Ghotbzadeh said, and the responsibility will be Canada's. 
Ghotbzadeh, at a Tehran news conference, denounced the secret Canadian operation a a "flagrant violation" of inter­national law and warned that retribution would be exacted from the Canadians sooner or later. 
But the Moslem militants who have held the embassy and hostages for 88 days refrained from immediately endorsing Ghotbzadeh' s threat of tougher conditions for their captives. Spokesmen said a formal state­ment might be issued later, but some reports quoted militants as saying they would not treat the hostages any differently. A State Department spokesman said Tuesday such a reprisal would be "irrational." 
Iran's domestic political troubles flared into new fight­ing meanwhile. 
Reports reaching Tehran said at least 10 persons were killed and 20 others injured Wednes­day in clashes between the central regime's revolutionary guards and Kurdish militants in western Iran. 
The official Iranian news agency said two army officers held hostage since Monday by unidentified insurgents in the Kurdish town of Salmas were killed. 
Since the victory of Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini's revolution 
a . year ago, militants in Kurdistan have clashed repeat­edly with security forces in an effort to win greater autonomy for their region. 
The new fighting broke out just a day after the Khomeini regime gave in to one Kurdish demand and withdrew revolu­tionary guards from the Kurd­ish city of Sanandaj. After the withdrawal, the Kurds ended a month-long general strike and a sit-in at the provincial gov­ernor-general's office. 

The Kurdistan violence and other developments in Tehran Wednesday were rdiably re­ported by Western journalists in the Iranian cziJital. 
[continued on page 6] 
Claims severallives 


Stortn disrupts Western states 
(AP) A winter storm that left produced Utah's heaviest snow­Southern California mired in fall in six years pushed into mud and some Western states Kansas, Nebraska, Oklahoma, buried under knee-deep snow Arkansas, Missouri, Illinois, 
pushed into the nation's mid­Tennessee and Northern Ala­section yesterday spreading bama. treacherous ice into Dixie. A hitchhiker who caught a ride 
Hundreds of schools closed, on a truck in northwestern lights went out and cars slam­Missouri became the 13th per­med together as the storm that son to die in weather-related 
life continues uninterruptedin Winimac 
Editor's Note: This is the first of a two-part sen.es filed from Winimac yesterday by two Observer Reporters following the Pinto trials and its impact on this small town of2,300, located 65 miles south ofcampus. Today 's article written by Staff Reporter Mary Fran Callahan, examines the town folk's reaction to national exposure, whzle tommorrow 's article, filed by Senior Staff Reporter Tom Hay, guides us through thereat com'dors oftown lzfe and thought: the bars and the newsroom. 
by Mary Fran Callahan staffreporter 
WIN/MAC In--In the rural town of Winimac, where the highly publicized Ford Pinto case is currently being tried, the atmosphere is a mixture of feelings-ranging from disinterest to excitement. 
Yesterday , Ford defense attorney James Neal interrogated 
automotive expert Byron Block in an attempt to ascertain that 
General Motors also produces cars with gas tanks loca1ted directly 
in front of the rear bumper. The scene ocurred in the Winimac 
courtroom, which has paint peeling from its walls. . 
The counroom'snormal seatin~ capacity is roughly 60,,/et bndge -chairs lined the rear walls as dtd standing members o the news media for an approximate total of 100 in attendance. A cross-sectioned model of the '73 Pinto sits blatantly in :front of the jury--creating quite a visual impact in the small courtroom 
Security was very relaxed at the courthouse as lawyers strolled 
through the corridors conferring with one another when court 
recessed. However, M. R. Buckham, deputy sheriff, explained that three Indiana state troopers were sent to Winimac to maintain tight security at the trial. Buckham said. the troopers would be verifying press credentials and directing traffic flow. 
Yet, no traffic problem existed on the brick streets and spectators without credentials were allowed to enter the court room. 
A secretary in the sheriff's office said she felt the trial is no thrill for the townspeople. ''The people are fixed in what they do and where they go. They like the town dead,'' she commented. 
Local residents' comments confirmed this disinterest. 
Mrs. John Russell, a retired resident, is only aware of the trial when she goes to the center of town. "All I've noticed is just a lot of strange faces in town. But they (restaurant and storeowners) know we're regulars, so they take care of us first," she explained. 
Jeri Winters, a beautician in the local beauty salon, said the trial does not particularly interest her. "I never follow the news that much," she commented. "I am busy cleaning my house feeding my husband and getting the kids off to school,'' a customer at the local gas station commented--adding, "I don't have time to follow it (the trial). " 
A.resident summed up the local attidude about the Ford trial when he said, "Whatever they decide it won't effect us." 
However, several residents expressed anger over a recent Newsweek article which portrayed Winimac residents as taking advantage of the Ford trial by using it as an excuse to commercialize. The only example of commercialization is 
[continued on page 4] 
accidents in two days when the truck crashed into another truck. The driver told police he was blinded by the snow. 
In Southern California, where five people died in earlier rain­storms, mud was 10 feet deep on one street in San Bernardino and overflow from a dam in neighboring Tijuana, Mexico, flooded parts of San Diego, drowning 15 horses. A mud­slide in the Los Angeles suburb of Malibu blocked the north· bound lanes of the Pacific Coast Highway. 
The storm, in its march to the east, dumped 18 inches of snow in Salt Lake City, gave Colorado up to 20 inches of new snow and smothered Flagstaff. Ariz., under 25 inches. Four inches of rain in the mountains threaten· ed to produce serious flooding in the normally dry Salt River bed in Phoenix, Ariz. 
About 1. 540 residents of Eufaula, Okla., had to brave a night without heat in sub-freez­ing weather when a gas line was ruptured by a dynamite blast just north of town. Fifteen large aircraft heaters were trucked in from Tinker . ' i r Force Base to provide heat fm four nursing homes and the Eufaula hospital. 
Dave McGuire, 38, had a typical story. When he set out to make his bakery deliveries in Oklahoma City, he slid into the cars of two neighbors and broke a taillight. Later, he slid 
[continued on page 9] 




News in brief 
Thursday, January 31, 1980 -page 2 
Deng urges qui~ting 
Lindsay recalls mayoralty 
ofintellectual critics 
PEKING (AP) -Senior Deputy Premier Deng Xiaoping has c_alled for a crackdown on freedom of expression and urged a ughtening of party discipline in China, Chinese and diplomatic sources said Wednesday. One diplomat called it "turning the screws" on intellectuals who do not toe the line. The sources, who requested they not be identified, said Deng delivered the major policy speech two weeks ago in Peking before 10,000 Communist Party .officials. In the speech, Deng urged that China's "big four" freedoms-to speak out freely , air views fully, hold debates and write wall posters, be abolished, the source said. He also said China's 36 million-member Communist Party had become cumbersome, inefficient and undisciplined. Its members should obey/arty rules, be well-trained and retire when they get too ol , the sources quoted Deng as saying. Deng is 75. 

Authorities determine fire in Flkhart'as arson 
ELKHART, Ind. (AP) · The fire that raced through an Elkhart hotel early Sunday killing five persons was ruled arson yesterday. Authorities said tests on wood scrappings and carpeting taken from a stairway showed the blaze was set, but they refused to say what was used to ignite· it. Investigators said they have no solid suspects but are checking on a handful of known arsonists in the area. 

Homicide rate in Gary highest among world cities 
GARY, Ind. (AP) -~a per capita basis, there are more homicides in this northern Indiana industrial city than anywhere else in the world, according to the Lake County coroner. Gary recorded a record-breakmg 103 homicides last year -far above murdc:r rates in Lake County's two other large cities. There were only 20 homicides in 1979 in East Chicago and Hammond, according to Lake County Coroner Albert W. Willardo. These two cities have a combined population of 154,000, as compared to Gary's 180,000 residents. "We felt a great number of them were drug related," ~illardo s~id. "There is a real drug problem, but no change In the attitude toward combating that problem.'' 

Weather 
Occasional snow and cold today with some accumulation possible near Lake Michigan. High near 20. Very cold and 30 percent chance for snow showers at night. Low zero to five above. Partly cloudy and very cold tomorrow. High in the teens. 



CamP-_u_s-----f 
1-3 pm EXHIBITION university of illinois graduate art. works, ISIS GALLERY. 
4 pm RADIATION LAB SEMINAR "excess-electron energy &hopping transport in non-polar liquids and solids,'' dr. william hamill, nd, CONF. RAD. LAB. 
6 pm LECTURE, richard devos, president of amway corp., spon. by finance club, HAYES HEALY. 
6, 8: 130 & 11 pm FILM, "all the king's men", social concerns film series, ENG. AUD. 
7 pm DICUSSION, "employment opportunities for liberal arts majors and interviewing\skills", by mike hinga and tom hart, spon. by arts and etters business society, rm. 124HAYES HEALY. 
7 & 9:15pm FILM, "meet me in st. louis," SMC CARROLL HALL,$1. 
7:30pm japanese film series , "sisters of gion," spon. by spdr and mod. lang. dc::pts., WASH HALL, $1. 
8 pm NAZZ, "nd women's night, " spon. by the nazz. 
NEW YORK (AP) -When tall 
and dashing John Vliet Lindsay 
bek:ame mayor or New York at 
the age of 43, he charmed this 
hard-bitten city and soon attain­
ed god-like stature. 
Lindsay was a free spmt, discerning and discrimina­ting," wrote veteran journalist Walter Lippmann. That was 1965, when the city was issuing $1.65 billion in short-term notes of debt. After eight years of Lindsay leader­shiJ?, the city was issuing $4 billwn in notes and was well on its way to losing its credit. Brave John Lindsay, who once walked in shirtsleeves through riot-torn · Harlem, had fallen from grace. Handsome John · Lindsay, who once made women's hearts beat faster with his chiseled good looks and patrician air, was a pariah. Today he is just as dashing. The hair is white and thinning, but the blue eyes still glow intensely and the smile still 
NDwomen 
sponsor 
women's 
night at Nazz 
The Notre DaF.e Women's Organization will sponsor a "Women Performers Night" at the Nazz tonight at 9:15. Six NDI Saint Mary's women will sing songs by and about women. 
The women's organization will hold a meeting in the Nazz at 9 p.m. to outline some of its plans for the semester. The group:s activities include sup­port groups, feminist reading groups, lectures and an evening of dance. The group is also working in the areas of admis­sions policy, Title IX, and women's housing. 
For more information, call Renee Leuchten at 3848. 
~The Observer_ 
Night Editor: Steve Swonk Assistant Night Editor: 
Deirdre Murphy, 
Eddie Holden 
r 
Copy Editor..: Kathy Casey Layout Staff:Mary Silvi, Kathy Vick, Bob Bernoskie News Editor: Mark Rust Features·Layout: K Connelly Sports Layout: Mark Perry Typists: Kate Huffman, Michele Kelleher, George Biron, Nancy Russell EMT: Kim Convey, Kathy Festin Proofreader:Bruce Oakley Ad Design: Chris Slatt Photographer: Mike Bigley . 
The Observer (USPS • 120) Is published Monday thraugh Frldly u­cept durlnt eum 1nd viCitiln perilda. The Observer Is publllllld by tile 
students of Notre D11111 llld Saint Miry's Cllllgl. Sublcrtplila lillY be purchald for $211 per yar 11• per II!Mitlrl from The ObserVer, 1'.0. biJ Q, Nitre blmt,lndiiRI ... Slclnd elm ~7, Jllld, Notre 011111, 111­diiRI . 
The Observer Is 1 IMIIIIIIr If tilt Aalclltld Prea. AU ••ldlcllln rigllts lrl mlrvld. 
comes easily. 
Lindsay · former mayor, one­time presidential canditate, sometime actor, novelist, ex-TV commentator and now a conten­der for owner of the New York Mets baseball team -is ready to jump back into politics. 
He says he plans to run for the Senate, six years after fore­saking public life for a corpo­rate law practice with the firm of Webster Sheffield. The seat he is eyeing is held by Sen. Jacob Javits, R-N.Y. Lindsay says he has not set a date for his announcement. 
On a wall in his Rockefeller Center oftice, cheek-by jowl with assorted law degrees and citations, hang two photo­graphs of Winston Churchil. 
"Now that was a real leader," said Lindsay. 
It is the type of leadership he believes is missing in America today. 
"I think that there's such a vacuum out there of leadership and such an abundance of mediocrity that I think it's incumbent on a lot of people who've been in public life to take a look at it," Lindsay said. "I don't think we can walk away from it." 
Lindsay hopes to fill the vacuum. But convincing New Yorkers of'his ability to do that will be an uphill struggle-many still blame him for the city's fiscal collap~e. 
Does Lindsay accept that blame? 
"You can't have been mayor for eight years and nor have had responsibility for a lot of things, he said. "But at the same time, I'd like others to accept respon­sibility, and that includes other mayors, governors, members of the City Council, Board or Estimate, state legislators and even presidents of the U.S. and the congress. 
''The urban pressure is not any one man's responsibility,"' Lindsay said. "So I'll accept responsibility where it's correct and due and warranted, and I'd 
(continued on page 8] 
Saint Mary's freshmen hold picnic 
The Saint Mary's Freshman Council invites all SMC/Notre Dame freshwomen to a picnic luncheon on Sunday from noon until 2 p.m. in the regina Hall south lounge. The meal will include hot dogs, hot chocolate, potato chips, and cake. Admis­sion is free. 



Off-Campus Students: 
Help FIGHT CRIME! 
-··~~"'·
~ .. '<.~~ 

Fill out andsendbackyour 
Crime Survey 
...Coming toyourhouse soon. 
The Observer 
Atl.eMans 


Partiers violate rules 
Martha Boyle, judicialby Margie Brassil Commissioner, verifie the fact and that no action has yet been Pam Degnan taken. "I can't say anything about it right now. Because of the students involved it must be
Sanctions will be brought 
kept confidential,'' Boyle said.
against LeMans Hall residents 
Although no hearing dates have 
who violated Saint Mary's party 
been formally set, Boyle said
regulations last weekend. Due 
that the Board will review cases 
to the complexity of the Judicial 
within the next week. 
,. Because ofthe students involved it must be kept confidential' 
system, these sanctions are still in process, the Observer learn­ed last nisht. 
The actiOn being taken stems from the parties in LeMans Hall which were broken up by security on Friday and Saturday nights. Several of the parties were said to be noisy and uncontrollable according to students· who voiced com­plaints. 
The destruction of fire extin­guishers and the theft of 15 ND student !D's resulted from the parties. Windows in the Science Hall greenhouse were also shattered on Friday night. 
According to the Student Government manual, initial sanctions are left up to the discretion of the hall director. When contacted last night, Sr. Karol Jackowski, director of 
LeMans  Hall,  said  that  no  
sanctions  had  been  decided  
upon.  

Students have the right to accept or reject any sanction imposed on them by ~he hall director. Ifa student reJects the sanction she is immediatedly referred' to the Judicial Board where the case will be reviewed and appropriate action imple­mented. 


Carter rejects U.S. as alternate location 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The Carter Administration wants to make sure American athletes can show their skills but does not want the United States to be the site of an alternative to the Moscow Olympic Games, a congressional panel was told yesterday. 
I liberal Arts Students can lookforward to jobs 
by Ann Hesburgh 

Job opportunities for Liberal Arts Students are not as scarce as many believe. As a matter of fact, job availability has in­creased over last year, and more companies, for example Owen of Illinois and General Motors, now hold scheduled interviews on campus for those students interested in per­sonnel and product manage­ment of industrial sales. 
Placement Specialist Paul Reynolds said yesterday that "except in areas that are tech­nically orientated, Liberal Arts Students h:1ve few career limit­ations." He added, "Major companies such as Caterpillar need students capable of relat­ing, delegating, and motivating others. They need you as much as you need them." 
Those who prefer not to work for a large corporation may also find information concerning job opportunities in the areas of Social Service, Government, and Retail. 
The question most asked by students on campus is ''How does one go about finding a job?" The Placement Bureau, located in room 213 of the Administration Building, is one place to start. The Place­ment Bureau as well as its auxiliary office located in room 222, has materials that list the names of companies looking for students with Liberal Arts degrees. Also available are the names of top executives to which students may write. 
According to Reynolds, the 
College Placement Annual is 
the best source of investigation. 
The Annual cross references the names ot companies, their job descriptions, and geo­graphic locations. The Employer Literatur·e is also an excellent source for those who are interested in occupational advancement. .: 
In addition to many reference materials, the Placement Bureau offers Counseling and Guidance services. Director Richard Willemin, Career Counselor Sr. i<.athleen Rossman, and Placement Specialist Paul Reynolds en­
[continued on page BJ 

ND-Players prepare production 
The Notre Dame Studenr Piayers are preparing for their second semester production, ''The Day They Kidnapped the Pope,'' to be performed April 17-20. The production will be 
the United States premier for the Italian play. It will also mark the first time that the Student Players have produced a play "theatre-in-the-round." 
Auditions for the play will be held Tuesday at 7 p.m. in the Flanner pit. Five male and two 
Jemale characters must be cast. 
The play will be directed by Bruce Leibert, who wrote and 
directed the play, ''The Petshop," recently performed at st. Mary's. 1t will be 
produced by the Cultural Arts Commission of the N.D. . Student Union. 
IThursday, January 31, 198() -page3. 
After a good workout, both runner and guitar return home. fphoto by Beth PrezioJ 

Nelson Ledsky, deputy hasn't yet acted on it. assistant secretary of state for Rep. James Florio, D-N.).,congressional relations, said, said the House panel conducted ''We want our athletes to be the hearing because U.S. op­
able to compete. They have tions involving the Olympicsworked very hard, often for question might present a need years, to perfect their skills." for legislation.
But he also said the admini­In a prepared statement stration is determined that the submitted to the subcommittee Soviet Union must withdraw its 
earlier, New Jersey Gov.
military forces from Afghani­Brenden T. Byrne said the New 
stan or face a refusal by the York metropolitan area could be United States to take part to the 
a viable alternate for the stag-
competition. 
ing of a summer sports festival. "We must convince the But F. Donald Miller, execu-Soviets that they will pay a tive director of the United 
said he did.not believe alternate 
games could be held this year. 
Miller said he believed it would 
take at least two years to 
prepare for such competition, 
adding that it would conflict 
with-planning for the already­! scheduled 1984 Olympic Games ; in Los Angeles. 
1,....-.oJ!!!!!!!-=:~~~~~:-:~..
:mEIIII.JDOZA'S 
f"'lll 
IGUITARS, 1 REPAIRS, 
' ACCE.SSORIES 
-
1mile nofth of campus
price for their ag~resston, 
States Olympic Committee, •----2•72···7•~•10----• 
whether in Afghantstan or elsewhere," said Ledsky, a member of the administration's 
ad hoc task force Olympics. 
"The United States favor organizing some form of alternate games in the fall summer of 1980," he said. 
''We will join as appropriate in working with other govern­ments to organize such alter~a­tive games," Ledsky adding: 
"Our preference is that such games not be held in the United States ... At the same time, the United States ·would be ready if 
necessary to host such games.'' Ledsky told the House trans­portation and commerce committee he couldn't say how much it would alternative competition. "It is too early to answer this 
question," he said. would depend on games would be located, 
many nations would parttcipate, and what contribu­tions we might be able to obtain from others.'' 
Ledsky suggested the compe­tition could be held at one or more sites overseas, perhaps in some Third World Country. 
President Carter has asked the United States 
. Committee and the lnternation­al Olympic Committee to post­pone or cancel the 
Games or have from Moscow if the have not left Afghanistan by
Feb. 20. Failing that, the 
has said, he will athletes to refuse to participate in the events. 
The USOC has Carter's position; national Olympic 

on the 

MOCK CONVENTION 
would 
Delegate Sign-Ups 
or · 



Wed.]an30-TuesFeb5 
satd, 
at SG Offices -LaFortune 
SMCDining Hall LeMans Lobby 
sub-





cost to hold . 

In Concert
"Much where the how agree to 


THE BOSTON POPS 
with conductorJOHN WILLIAMS 
TOMORROW 8PM 
· Olympic NOTRE DAME A C C 
Summer prices:them moved Soviets $1 0 , lOWer arena (front Stage) $7 lOWer arena (~ear stage)
•· president $4 bleachers 
ask U.S. 
TICKETS ON SALE ACC BOXOFFICE 
backed 9am-5Dm · 
the Inter-1 GOQDSEAJ A\1 Committee t llliiiiiiiiiiiililll•llllliilliillilllllllli•.v••••lliiiiiiiiliiiiiiiiill 
·.!' 
·. ·.:.··,·( 
.'. ~; ·'/·, 'f ·,;(,/~: ._\ ~ \~· ...... -..J.·~;.•.irf·) ~·.,.-;..r.: 
:> ·<.; .:\ ;~ ·-.... " ·: ~.:~~ ~-• ~ ~-•.-: ·.• ·,~ ,__,.. :,--.t·. ~ ~-t'·...._:·~ . :: I -4-~·. ~· 'J ~ ,i ~.:· ·. 
•(' ' ; ' .. 
r-­
The Observer Thursdax , January 31; 1980 -page 4 
don'tmissthisevent!!!!!! A MUSICAL w·EEKEND OF FILMS january 31 thru february 2 
THUR. "Meet Me in St. Louis"7:00 &9:15 FRI. "An American in Paris" 7:00,9:15 &11:30 SAT. "My Fair Lady" 7:00 & 10:00 
. 


CARROLL HALL SMC ADMISSION $1.00 



Witness declares Pinto design hazardous 'in aclass by itself' 
WINIMAC, Ind. (AP)-An auto safety consultant conceded yes­terday in Ford Motor Co.'s reckless homicide trial that the fuel system in the' 1973 Pinto was much like other American-made subcompacts. 
However, Prosecutor Michael A. Cosentino counter­ed that the Pinto was "in a class by itself' as a fire hazard because, unlike other subcom­pacts, the fuel tank was sur­rounded by objects that could puncture it and· trig~er explo­sions in rear-end colltsions. 
Ford is charged with three counts of reckless homicide in the August 1978 burning deaths of three teen-agers in a 1973 Pinto that burst into flames when struck from behind by a van near Goshen, Ind. 
The state contends Ford, which faces maximum fines of $10,000 on each count, knew the Pinto fuel tanks were unsafe but sold the cars anyway. 
Under cross-examination by Ford attorney James F. Neal in Pulaski Circuit Court, auto safety consultant Byron Bloch s::~id it was possible that the fuel tanks of other subcompacts in 1973 were constructed of metal as thin as that of the Pinto. He also agreed that no American-made car had a protective shield around the gas tank at the time. 
Bloch, a lon~-time critic of the Pinto destgn, also said bumpers on the 1973 Chevrolet Vega, American Motors Gremlin and Dodge Colt pro­bably had the same strength and ability as the Pinto to withstand rear-end impact. But he added: "They were all bad." 
The defense is trying to show that Ford met standards set by auto manufacturers at the time the Pinto was made. 
The prosecution has con­tended that the Pinto had a soft rear end with no structure to protect the gas tank from being punctured and that its location behind the axle made it more vulnerable to being crushed. 
However, Neal said "95 per­cent of all American cars had the gas tank flat behind the axle as it was in the 1973 Pinto." 
Cosentino argued that the question was ''not only of the location of the gas tank but of the environment of the gas tank.'' The bolts on the differential housin~ put the Pinto "in a class by ttself' with respect to the "hostile envi­ronment" surrounding the fuel tank. · 
Bloch conceded that the Gremlin, Vega and Colt also had no significant rear-end structure to protect the tank and had no side supports similar to those on the Pmto. 
But he added that both the Vega and the Pinto had a "profoundly weak" rear struc­ture. He described the metal support near the gas tank at the left rear of the Pinto as a "simple, Swiss cheese-type of sheet metal," indicating it could not prevent the tank from being crushed in a rear-impact collision . 
Earlier, Bloch said there probably would have been no fire in the Indiana 'accident if the Pinto tank had been above or forward of the rear axle. Medical testimony has indicat­ed the three girls who died in the crash might be alive today were it not for the fire. 
Bloch said Ford could have protected the tank with frame rails and other devices, includ­ing a protective shield that would have kept it from being punctured. The tank also should have been made of stronger material and the filler tube should have been more securely fastened to the tank, he said . 
However, Bloch admitted under questioning by Neal that some auto manufacturers, in­eluding Datsun, Toyota, Volks­wagen and Mazda, switched the location of the fuel tank on some models from above or forward of the axle to behind it­as the Pinto was designed. He also said Oldsmobile, which put the fuel tank ahead of the axle in 1961, abandoned that loca­tion in 1974, the same year Ford adopted it in larger cars . 

FRIDAY 
Happy Hour 2pm-7pm 

CORB'S No. 1 Selling Beer 





Molson 
Golden Ale 
75¢ 
[continued from page IJ 
Sarah Baker, Winimac Public Library director, confirmed that the Newsweek article generated controversy, and incensed other wise disinterested residents. "It put us all in a bad light," she. explained. A copy of the article was on display in the library and people smeared it with thumb prints. People have come in to read it, so we put it out," Baker said. 
However, she said the library is not unusually excited about the trial. "We're all excited because we are busy planning to expand our library,'' a librar­ian commented. Conversation in the library did center around the library's expansion rather than the Ford tnal. 
Contrasting with the attitude of most of the local residents, students at Winimac County School were enthusiastic to the point of being bubbly. 
"I was at the dentist's office and I saw them bringing the chopped up car into the court­house!'' a second grade girl exclaimed. All the children questioned knew the develop­ments of the trial although they did not read the newspapers. 
Brad Feckler, a sixth grade teacher at the school, is teach­ing a class in current affairs. Feckler said he has never seen such enthusiasm and interest generated in his students. ''The trial really is exciting for the kids,'' Feckler commented. 
Articles from various news­papers and magazines pertain­tog to the Ford trial were tacked 
on  a  bulletin  board  which  
Fedder  has  generated  exclu­ 
sively for Pinto  news.  "Kids  

that would never touch a news­paper are bringing in articles,'' he explained. 
Yet, business by the court­house has indeed been affected. 
. . . Winimac 
Matilda's Cafe is a small restaurant located across the street from the courthouse-­which has pacemats that say: ''Those who bring sunshine to others cannot keep it from themselves." The restaurant is also a lunchtime mecca for journalists, cameramen and local merchants. A waitress at Matilda's said that business has increased about 25 percent since the trial began. 
"I just got my license in cosmotology, but I'm not ~oing to quit until after the tnal is finished," she commented-­adding that the tips were simply too ~ood. . 
Mrs. Joseph Willis, owner of the Winimac Hotel, appeared disappointed that she had to hang a vacancy sign outside her establishment. ''Ford rented out a hotelJ'ust for themselves and the In ian Head gets the 
)continued on page 8) 
~ 
· 
-


.. 
The Observe•· Thursday, January. 31 , 1980 ~page 5· 


Carter gives econotnic forecast 

.WASHINGTON (AP) -An­in the past 12 months. the outlook is that ·oPEC deci­other sharp increase in world oil In addition, Saudi Arabia and s_ions about prices and produ­prices could seriously worsen several other oil producers tton may lead to increases in the already gloomy outlook for announced new increases in world oil prices that go well the nation's economy this year, their oil prices of about 8 beyond those announced re­President Carter and his advi­percent just this week. cently," it said. sers said yesterday. 
. ''Such a development would,
Charles L. Schultze, the chair­
In addition, the president said m the short run, add to the 
man of Carter's Council of 
inflation almost certainly will be restraint on the economy exert­
Economic Advisers, acknow­
worse if workers try to recover ~d by oil prices, exacerbate
ledged to reporters that 
all of the increase in last year's mflauon and lead to lower
"should oil prices rise signifi­
energy ~osts through higher economic growth and higher
cantly more'' than the forecast 
wages this year. unemployment," it added.
''It would cause us some trou: ble."
''The most immediate prob­The report said the increase in lem in 1980 is to ensure that last OPEC prices last year was
Schultze also said the adminis­
ye~r· s sharp increase in energy equivalent to a tax increase on
tration projects the increase in 
pnces does not result in a new Americans of$53 billion. It said
domestic oil prices at about 20
spiral of price and wage in­the shock of the increase didn't
percent. Domestic oil prices
creases that would worsen the create a recession because the
would rise more than the world
underlying inflation rate for economy showed surprising
price as the result of Carter's 
many years to come " Carter strength, especially in consum­
program to lift existing controls 
said in his annual 'economic er spending.
from domestic prices.
report to Congress. 
The report repeated the ad­
ministration's forecasts of a 
mild recession in the first half 
of 1980 with unemployment 
rising to 7. 5 percent and con­
sumer prices increasing 10.4 
percent this year and 8.6 per­
.cent in 1981. Prices increased . 13.3 percent last year. 
But as bad as they are,those forecasts assume world oil prices will increase only slightly more than the rate of inflation, or not much more than 10 percent. This seems especially optimistic since the Organiza­tion of Petroleum Exporting Countries doubled their prices 
Accused veteran begins defense 
sentation and waited for the The hearing, which has been CAMP LEJEUNE, N.C. (AP) ­arrival of a Vietnamese refugee !nterrupted by lengthy breaks,The actions of Marine Pfc. 
who also might testify Thurs­1~ neanng an end after nearlyRobert Garwood in Vietnam 
day. SIX weeks. 
were affected by head injuries Foley said the refugee ''was After Garwood's lawyers
he received before going to with Bobby in the prison camps present their case and prose­Vietnam in 1965, Garwood's and could testify as to what cutors cross-examine each side civilian attorney said yesterday. 
happened there." will make a closing 'statement Garwood, 33, faces allega­before. Maj. T.B. Hamiltonjr.,
Foley did not name either of
tions of desertion and collabor­the two witnesses. pres1dmg officer at the hearing. 
ation with the enemy in Viet­nam. A hearing is under way at Camp Lejeune to determine whether there is enough evi­dence for a court-martial. 
Dermot Foley, Garwood's 
• • • Mardi Gras 
civilian lawyer, said in an interview that he intends to Hickey, meanwhile, was con­
present a defense witness on [continued from page 1] 
cerned about a lack of publicity
Thursday to talk about 
within the dorms. "We wereGarwood's physical injuries. Raffle chairman Paul Kelly slow in getting posters out,'' he
The wimess, a Marine urged students to sell tickets to commented. ''It appears thatsargeant now stationed at University employees. "Today some hall reps didn't fullyCamp Lejeune, knew Garwood I sold 2 books in 20 minutes in inform their section leaders.'' ' when the two were stationed on the Administration Building,'' Although yesterday's article
Okinawa before Garwood Kelly claimed. ''University shipped out for Vietnam in employees will buy tickets if the did ~enerate a great deal of , 
activtty, it also upset a number !
students ask them.''
1965. 
of people. Keenan Hall repre-:
Foley, revealing what would All parties involved blamed a be a major part of Garwood's lack of coordination for this sentative Dennis Hughes was i 
particularly angered by the
year's problems. Apparently,
defense if the case goes to trial, article.
said Garwood showed ''classic many hall representatives gave "It made us sound incompe-' symptoms of a very severe their rickets to their hall's tent," Hughes charged. "I
section leaders, who then failed
brain concussion" before he know where my tickets are."
to distribute ·them. Some
was sent to Vietnam. 
Hughes also said that insuf­
Garwood's lawyers believe students did not receive their ficient publicity has caused this .
tickets until after Christmas.
the condition affected his be­
year's problems. "There
Both Day and Hickey said
havior. 
wasn't enough promotion ·
that a lack of publicity has
Garwood was a 19-year-old before Christmas," he claimed. ' 
plagued the raffle. "We gave
jeep driver when he disappear­''They promised posters many !
the Observer six articles to
ed near Danang in September 
times, but they never
print, but they never appear­
1965. He returned to the delivered.''
United States last March, ed," Day claimed. 
The annual economic report, ''1 he factors that sustained which was prepared by the growth in 1979 should help to Council of Economic Advisers, make the recession moderate in was even more explicit about depth and duration,'' the report how another major increase in said. "But it is unlikely that oil prices could affect the they will cushion the economy's economy in 1980. response to shocks to the same 
"As in 1979, a major threat to extent that they did in 1979." 
SCUBA LESSONS 
Spring Semester e c~rtified N~DS instru~Uon 
• Be certified before finals 
COURSE FEEINCLUDES: 
• 
Mask, fins, & snorkel (you keep). 

• 
All necessary rentals · 

• 
All classroQm materials 


AMERICAN LEGION PULASKI POST 
1606w. western av~. ~o south on MAINE, turn right on WESTERN) 
music, dancing, cheap drinks 
$1.00 admission 2110'S REQUIRED 
claiming he had been held prisoner for nearly 14 years. 
But other former prisoners of war have testified at the hear­ing that Garwood lived with communist guards, carried guns and helped guard other American POWs, and claimed to be a lieutenant in the North Vietnamese army. 
There was no testimony Wednesday, as Foley and Garwood's two Marine attor­neys prepared the defense pre-







MARDI GRAS DEALER'S SCHOOL SCHEDULE 
SUN FEB3
THURSJAN31 
lUES FEB5
FRI FEBl 
SATFEB2 
Howard-Badin. 
St. Ed's 
Holy Cross-Augusta 
Keenan 

Zahm
7:00 

(in Badin) 
(in Holy Cross) 
Dillon
Walsh-Sorin
Stanford 

Cavanaugh
7:45 

Lemans 
(in Walsh) 
Alumni
Le~is
8:30 

~;h;~~ggls;~s 
Utt -Campus
HolyCross (ND) 
Regina
(in Alumni) 
9:15 

The Observer Thursday, January 31, 1980 -page 6 
'Too controversial' 
Networks reject Mobil ad 
NEW YORK (AP) -What is more profitable -an oil comp­anv or a television network? Mobil Corp. says a network is 
and it made a commercial 

saying  so.  The  networks  say  
they  will  not  run  the  
commercial.  

"I think it's censorshi~," Mobil executive Vice Prestdent Herbert Schmertz said yester­day. "I don't think their motivation is to censor, but that is the result." 
The networks said the decision to reject the ad was based on long standing polici~s against airing commericals on controversial public issues and had nothing to do with the discussion of their profits. NBC also challen_ged the relevance of the compans1on. 
The Mobil commercial, which has run on stations in New York, Washington and Los Angeles. features a well 
dressed man, described by Mobil as a "Security analyst­type" saying Mobil's profits were "b1g" but then noting that Mobil spent more than$2. 5 billion last year ro find and produce oil and gas. 
"To get profits in pers­pective," the man in the com­mercial says, ''business anaylsts look at percentages, just as you do when you open a savings account. Over the years, Mobil has earned about the same profit percentage on money invested as the average for all manufacturing industries -and less than for ABC,CBS, and NBC." 
The commercial did not back up the statement, but in news­paper ads Mobil cited figures on return on stockholders' equity -the amount of profit divided by the amount of money invested by shareholders. 
In 1978, according to Fortune magazine, ABC had a 21.6 percent return on total profits of $135.6million,CBS's return was 
21.0 percent on profits of$198. 1 million; and RCA Corp. had a return of 17.4 percent on earn­ings of $278.4 million. RCA owns NBC, but does not pro­vide separate financial details on the network. Mobil's return was 12.6 percent, but profits were$1.13 billion. 
There are differences in methods of computing return on shareholders' equity. This year Mobil changed accounting procedures, and as a result concluded that its return on shareholders' equity was 13.0 percent in 1978, a figure that grew to 20.8 percent in 1979 as earnings rose to $2.01 billion. RCA's profits were $283.8 million for 1979, but it did not release a figure on sharehold­ers' equity. CBS and ABC have not released 1979 earnings. 
NBC, in a statement read by a sr,okes_man, ci~ed its policy that ' Partisan v1ewpo1nts on important issues such as oil company profits are presented in news and publtc affairs programs, produced by disinterested news profession­als and not in paid commer­cials." 

"Mobil's attempt to compare oil company profits with the return on invested capital of the television networks had no bearing on our decision, and in our judgment injects wholly extraneous arguments into Mobil's defense of its profits," the statement added. 
CBS Vice President Gene Mater said his network's refusal to air the ad "had nothing to do with our profits,'' but declined to discuss the reasons. An ABC spokesman said the company had a policy similar to NBC's. 
Yearbook requests production aid 
Anyone interested in yearbook production please report to the yearbook office, 3rd floor La­Fortune, tomorrow night at 7. This is a very important dead­line and much help is needed. 


FLY FROM SOUTH BEND TO FORT LAUDERDALE ONLY $189 
Complete package as low as $298 
Complete package includes round trip non-stop jet fare and oceanfront hotel acoomodations also available National Car Rentals DEPARTS MARCH 29 RETURNS APRIL 5 for reservation information call Shaz 232-6831 or call toll-free 1-800-848-9540 arrangements by ~tudent Sun Trips, Inc. 
Ozanne speaks on success 
by Peter Macdonald 
Paul Ozanne, president of both the North American Car Corp­oration and the Tiger Leasing Group, spoke to approximately one hundred Notre Dame business students last ni8ht in the Hayes-Healy auditonum. Using examples from his own corporations, Ozanne outlined characteristics of successful businesses and successful businessmen. 
Ozanne said that it is very important for businesses to have leaders who understand the industry and who under­stand the company. He said that a good executive must be willing to constantly define and . redefine the operations and the goals of his company, and be willing to implement changes in order that those goals may be reached. 
Ozanne's lecture was entitled "Changing at Age Seventy." He began by pointing out that the Tiger Group, after being in the full-service railcar leasing business and other businesses for over seventy years, found its profits going flat. They were in the $25 milhon pretax range for three years straight. Then the executives decided that reassessment of the company 
. operations and goals was in order. They had statistics about market share, pretax profits, costs and other im­
portant data compiled, and took 
them to the Strategic Planning 
Institute in Boston for analysis. 
Based on advice from the ·Institute, the company under­went two key changes: the expansion of in-house repair capacity of cars from 40 percent to 90 percent, and the incorporation of outside investors in order to cut back internal capital intensity. Once these changes were made, pretax profits jumped to $36 million 111 1978. 
Again using an example from his company, Ozanne spoke of the qualities of a good man­ager. When his corporation undertook an incentive program in twenty of its plants, only five plant managers attained the necessary goals to realize one hundred percent of their in­centives. Ozanne said that those five were "peo_{>le oriented, respected, posiuve motivators, involved delegators and entrepreneurs.'' 
Mr. Ozanne's lecture was the third in a four lecture series sponsored by the finance club. The club expressed the hope that by bringing in prominent executives to its Finance Forum, students can have a chance to be exposed to a real life view of the business world and can share in the exper­iences of those executives. 
The final lecture will be given tonight by Richard DeVos, co-founder and president of the Amway Corporation, a firm which distributes household cleaning and personal care products to over 300,000 independent distributorships. DeVos was the subject of a recent article in Time maga­zine. His lecture will be given a 7 p.m. in the library auditorium. . 
, . , Iran 
[conti"nued from page IJ 
The escape of'the six Ameri­can diplomats, disclosed Tues­day morning in the West, was not reported to the general public m Tehran until midday Wednesday, when newspapers gave it front-page treatment. 
The six stayed at Canadian diplomatic restdences until they were spirited out of the country late last week or early this week under cover of false Canadian passports and forged visas. The Canadians closed down their embassy Monday and withdrew Ambassador Ken Taylor and his three remaining staff members. 
administration of either institution. 
Editorial Board and Department Managers
The news is reported as accurately and
-The Observer_ 
as objectively as possible. Editorials Editor-zn-chie( ........ Rosemary Mills Sports Editor .................. Mark Perry represent the opinton of a majority of Managing Editor.......... Diane Wilson Features Editor ... .. Kathleen Connelly &x Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 the Editorial Board. Commentaries, Editonal Editor .............. Ann Gales Photo Editor .............. Doug Christian opinions and letters are the views of Senior Copy Edrtor ........ .M. Onufrak 
The Observer is an independent their authors. Column space is avail­Executive News Editor ...... Mike Lewis Business Manager ....... .Steve Odland newspaper published by the students able to all members of the community, News Editor.................... Mark Rust Production Manager .... John McGrath of the University of Notre Dame du lac an~ . the free expression of varying News Editor ................. Mike Shields Advertising Manager ......... Bob Rudy and Saint Mary's College. It does not op1mons on campus, through letters, is SMC News Editor ........ Margie Brassil Controller................. .Kevin Manion necessarily reflect the policies of the encouraged. Circulation Manager ...... Greg Hedges 
... _, 
-

Features 
Slow Moti(J~n 
Roast BeefRestaurant 
Seduction ... 
Now that we've got your attention ... 
The thirty-year-old, German-born carpenter has been dubbed "the best-kept secret in California" by New West magazine. But the secret is out; William Ackerman is one of the finest and most original steel­string guitarists in the country. 
He is also founder ofWindham Hill Rec?rds (name? after his contracting busmess), an mdependent, rapidly­expanding record company which began as an at-home mail-order venture to distribute his albums. Ackerman estimates Windham has sold between 70,000 to 80,000 in­strumental albums since its birth in 1976, including Ackerman's acoustic 
The Search jar the Turtle's Navel [19761, It takes a Year (1977], and Childhood and Memory (1979]. 
His soundtrack for Spin't of the Wind, a documentary about Alaska which won the ~rand prize in the U.S. Film Festival, IS also rumored to be up for an Academy Award. 
And if that doesn't impress you, how can you resist a man who has christened hauntingly lyrical guitar pieces with the likes of ''The Pink 
Musicviews 

The Secret Life ofPlants 
Stevie Wonder 
(Tam/a) 
Stevie Wonder albums are not merely musical recordings; they are events unto themselves. Known for his meticulous and deliberate atten­tion to production detail, Wonder usually takes excessively long periods of time re-recording and remixing albums until they reach what he considers near perfection. As a result, the talented multi-instru­mentalist's cross-breeding of soul, funk, and pop sounds sells millions of records not only to the black public, but to countless numbers of other music enthusiasts. 
His new double album, journey Through the Secret Ltfe ofPlants, is an elaborate and complex project, two years in the making. It is gloriously packaged in orchid­scented artwork of Japanese origin, and is rife with sound effects of countless sources. Backing vocals are . provided by hundreds of various personnel in three languages. Of the diverse set of instruments, the vast majority are played by Wonder himself", with help from top session musicians. The music itself was recorded in seven locations. It appe?.rs that Wonder has embarked on his most involved project ever. 
But appearances are deceiving-­when it comes right down to hard tacks, no amount of production effort could save this lethargic exercise from its incredible ability to produce sleep efficiently. Those who find Wonder's light metaphysical ramb­lings stimulating may enjoy the record, but there is no doubt that the four sides of utterly similar music will drive even the most ardent fan up the proverbial wall. In short, the album is well produced, to be sure, but what is produced is repetitive and downright boring. 
The strange thing about the album is that each cut, taken separately, is quite agreeable. The pop sound is emphas1zed, rather than the stronger funk or soul emotionalism, and as a result, the songs match the lighter subject matter in musical tone. Much' of the first and fourth sides consists ofneo·s mphonic ·instrumentals Chiffon Tricyclle Queen," and "Slow Motion Roast Beef Restaurant Se­duction?'' And swears the titles are autobiographical? 
Raised in California, Will was strumming surfing tunes at age eleven, which he promptly aban­doned for the folksy music of The Kingston Trio. Later, at Stanford College, where he was ''fully incar­cerated as an inmate for three years'' (he dropped out five credits short of a degree in English), Ackerman heard the explorative Western folk music of John Fahey and Robbie Basho. Intrigued, Ackerman began to ex­periment with open C and D tunings, developing them into songs "that make sense to my heart.'' 
"I am in no way a musical theoritician," Will stresses. "You would have to study to be as ignorant as me." 
Ackerman's writing method is highly unusual. He slacks the strin~s of his handsome six-string, spltt­bridge guitar "down to nothing," then tunes them to a chord that corresponds to his mood. ''I under­stand right away if there's a theme in it," he comments. The resulting 
a .._.._.~ 
reminiscent of heart-on-the-sleeve romantic period classical music, but the synthetic overproduction reduces these experiments to little more than mildly interesting. It is on sides two and three, where a harder, more diverse sound is presented, that Wonder does well. Particularly appealing is "Send One Your Love" done in two versions--instrumentally and with vocals. 
But, alas, the subject matter grows too thin to support or explain four sides of music. The record is a soundtrack for a movie yet to be released. One wonders, if the album is any indication of what the film is about, if all this pontification and exaltation of the greenery of the earth is justified. After all, how exciting can it be to be a plant? 
,_.._...-.c._...-..._. Tim Sullivan•__
____________ , 
The Romantics 
The Romantics 
(Nemperor.} 

My first exposure to the Romantics was last summc~r at a club called BGinnings near Chicago, the self proclamed "Concert club of the midwest." I was; there to see Rock­pile and was not expecting much in the way of a back up band as is usually the case in such places. This was an unusual night though, the type of night where you had to get there early to get in a position where you could see the band when you were standing 01n your table. As the Romantics were announced, virtual unknowns from Detroit, I prepared myself to sit through a half hour or so ofmediocre metal gruel. Wrong! The group I expected nothing from pro­ceeded to put forth a set of perfected, tight highly enjoyable REAL rock and roll. 
Even though it is a collection of cuts from various albums, Rock and Roll Music has been my favorite Beatles album since it's release. This was the Beatles at their rockingest, full of Chuck Berry and the like's classics, along with their, "we're a guitar band'' rock and roll of the fab four's creation. Once hearing it, a craving was formed for more,but being the middle of the seventies, one was confined to searching the bargain bins. No one was putting out real rock 
Thursday, January 31, 1980 -page 7 
t~~ee and fo!J.r finger-picking compo­smons range from fragile to fiery. Will classifies his musiC as ''guitar 
· impressionism,'' a term coined by guitari~t Jim Solace. "It's very dram~t~c and graphic, and tangible, a_nd v1s1ble," he explains. "Inspira­tiOn comes from something visible like sitting on a hillside.'' ' 
All Ackerman compositions are strictly instrumental, except for "Woman She Rides," off h1s Turtle album. "I sing just terribly," Ackerman admits. "There aren't words to describe it ... I have to be absolutely plastered out of my mind." ­
Questioned about the surrealistic titles of his songs, Will throws back his head and laughs, then confesses the "liners" on his early albums were ''largely defensive.'' (Cuts from Chzldhood and Memory are more straight forward: "Seattle," "Wall in the Wind"). 
With relish, Will rattles off his favorite title, " 'The Second Great Tortion Bar Overland of West Townshend, Vermont, Jose Pepsi At~ending,' a horror story of mental fattgue and intoxication where in a maddened Pepsi salesman is coerced into the abandonment of all ethical standards and a submissive truck first experiences the freedom of modern downhill skiing.'' 
According to the steel-string mas­ter, he an~ a friend, a member of the Pepsi Family, "and two frozen bottles of tequila,'' decided toJ·oyride 
. in Will's new pick-up truck own a country ski route one drunken morn-mg at 3 a.m. They half-trozen, hours later, the next few days trying truck back up the slope. 

More secure in his music now, Will admits he misses ''writing non­sense" and would like to resume it for fun. "I might put an album that's 
all  liner  notes  and  no  album,''  he  
muses.  
Ackerman,  who  has  toured  with  

Harry Chapin, the Persuasions, and Numero Uno steel-stringer Alex De­Grassi, and opened shows for ] oan Baez, will be touring with local guitar artist Richard Walters through Indi­ana and Illinois the next two weeks. They will perform at Notre Dame or. Sunday, Feb. 3, in Washington Hall at 8 p.m. Tickets are $2.50, and can be purchased at the Student Union 
(icket office or at the door . 
Molly Woulf~ 
... Long Distance 
Local guita_rist Richard Walters was rummagmg in a Mishawaka record shop when strains of Will Ackerman's It Takes a Year flowed through the store. 
''It was kind of intangible,'' recalls Walters. "But the first time I heard it, I knew I'd found the directorship I'd wanted." 
Walters purchased the album, and began picking Ackerman's tunes by ear at home. Then, "On a whim," he wrote the carpenter-composer, and received a letter back within five days. 
Thus began a fifteen-month cor­respondence between the two Fahey and Basho disciples, and weekly long·distancephone guitar lessons via Indiana Bell. The two musicians, who plan to conduct a ten-day concert tour through Iq.diana and Illinois , finally met face-to-face Monday night when Rick picked up Will at O'Hare 
and roll. As the seventies wound to an end though, this hunger for the real thing began to be appeased in the form of numerous bands who saw their niche in life to·be bringing back the ''good stuff''. The Romantics fit in this catesory, and they fit in at the top of the ltst. 
To see or hear the Romantics throws one back to the mid-sixties; before the onslaught of distortion effects synthesizers, and lyrics that required the help of hallucinogenics to under­stand them. The Romantics are the very essence of this time period tr3:nsponed to the eighties for your enJoyment. They are not the hype boys such as The Knack; there is no overdose of sarcasm, no sexist meat­market lyrics. What we have instead is the writing team of guitarists Jimmy Marinos and Mike Skill giving us the kir;td of stuff th~t the pre­flower children generatton thrived on. That is the beauty of this album there's not a cover on it, it's all originals written by children of the seventies. The Romantics have cap­tured the true essence of that era of music, both in the riffs and the lyrics, and they have done it nothing but justice. 
I hare to sound overly excited about an album, but I feel this album merits it. Though many bands have tried the same thing lately, most have been 
In a classroom in O'Shaughnessy, before their late-night interview on WSND's "NocturneFlight," Acker­man and Walters discussed their styles over a bottle of Pinor Noir. 
Walters, a former student at Notre Dame, who has played his mahogany Guild D-25 at Vegetable Buddies and numerous coffee houses, is a "guitar impressionist" like Ackerman, though he comments his composi­tions are ''more circular in motion-­sort of an A-B-A-B construction." 
"I like what Rick does," Ackerman comments, adding they've discussed recording Walters on Windham Hill Records. "It's a matter of finding enough material to round out a good album.'' 
There is little doubt the two will 
conduct a successful tour together. 
A~ Ackerman puts it, "We got the 
wme, don't we?" Molly Woulfe 
musically feeble, although some have achieved commercial success. The Romantics give us the type of genuine rock and roll uncluttered by ~}'pe many ?fus long for. Simple rock nff~ and Iynes that are of the girl-boy vanety are what fills this album. It represents a return to simplicity that seems to be ~enuine and not JUSt a kitsch, cash-tn, formula to make money. The only facet of this band that eve~ has the slightest tinge of the clomsm so present today is drummer Wally Palmar who at times think~ he is Keith Moon, playing his set w1th the butts of his 'sticks and flailing his arms in tradition of the !a~e madman-geni~s. 9r ~aybe this ts JUSt a patterned msp1ratwn as is the c:;tse with Dave Edmunds, the rocka­b1lly rocker who plays Chuck Berry better today than the master did in the fifties. 
If the Romantics make it big, it will be on the basis of their music and not on the basis of a big label behind them. It has happened before. The possibility exists for this band to do it. If you heard the album on Night Flight Tuesd~y nigh~ you'll probably agree. Sure, Its looktng back instead of going forward into new venues, but after all they are called the Romantics. 
Mick Mancuso 
..,.._,.._........----------------,r-~-----~----------· 
The Observer

-
... Lindsay 
(continued from page 2] holding aloft the book ''Ama­
zing'' which tells the story of 
like others to do the same. It's the Mets winning the World 
easy to look for scapegoats." ! Series in 1969. 
Despite his political enemies, Lindsay smiled, almost however Lindsay also has many glowed. friends. ''I'm being terribly "We think it can happen well received wherever I go,'' again," he said. "After all, he said. "Last night I was in 1969 was a big year for the Flarbush, Brooklyn, and there Mets and a big year for me." was a tremendous reception. It In 1969, Lindsay was re-elect­was a very positive group and a ed mayor by a slim plurality. bigger turnout than anyone When he left office in 1973, expec1ed. '' Lindsay took a year off to live in 
In the midst of his law practice Europe. He called it his "sab­and his n entry to politics, batical.'' I.ind~ay could also become the During that time he wrote his 
new owner of the Mets. novel, "The Edge," and had a 
1-k heads a synd1cate that is minor role in the film "Rose­bidding for the New York bud,'' with neither effort par­baseball team. The syndicate. ticularly impressing the critics. 
111dudes Twentieth Century­He also appeared on ABC-TV's h>x Corp. Lindsay would not "Good Morning America" disdose rhe syndiCate's offer, show weekday mornings. hut said bids ranged between ''I learned that I could do 
$10 million and $15 million. other things than politics and ·'We think it's an important government and be happy," he asset for New York and we said. "I've found out in the last think it's important that the seven years how important it is ream stay here,·· he said. for public people to be recycled 
·'Look at this. " he continued. back into private life." 
THE LEADING NEWSMAGAZINE AT THE LOWEST PRICE. 
Because you attend college you are eligible to receive TIME, the world's lead­ing newsweekly at the lowest indi­vidual subscription rate, just 35¢ an issue. That's BIG SAVINGS off the regular· subscription rate of 59¢ an issue and even BIGGER SAVINGS off the $J.25 
newsstand price. 
And ifs so simple to subscribe-just look for the cards with TIME and its sister publications, Sports Illustrated, Fortune, Life, Money and People. They are available at the college bookstore or from your local TIME representative: 
Kevin Rochford . 121 E. Navarre South Bend, IN 46601 
(219) 233-5298 
Thursday, J~uary 31, 1980-page 8 

... Jobs 
resumes and cover-letters and
[continued from page 3] 
to answer questions concerning courage students to take ad­alternative career options. vantage of the Bureau · In co-ordination with the 
desire to help students with Center for Experiential Learn­ing and Volunteer Services, 
rhe Placement Bureau is work­
ing to counsel those srudents who are interested in commun­ity service occupations. Director of theExperienrial learning Center Fr. Donald McNeill reported that last year more than 100 students were interested. "We are trying to develop resources in this area," Reynolds stated, "because we f:nd that many people want to use their education as a means of helping others." 
Reynolds emphasized the need for Juniors to better acquaint themselves with the materials and services offered by the Placement Bureau. ·'Nor that we are disinterested in helping the Seniors," he commented, "bur I feel that Juni<>r year is rhe rime to start 
"chinking about careers. 
G.M.reps 
to discuss 
·_employment 
Mike Hinga and Tom Hart of General Motors Corporation will discuss employment op­portunities for liberal arts stu­dents and interviewing skills tonight at 7 in room 124 of the Hayes-Healy building. The Arts and Letters Busmess So­ciety welcomes anyone inte­rested. 
, , , Life 
(continued from page 4] 
rest of the business," she explained. Willis said she has only one boarder--a Washing­ton photographer--who has been involved in the trial. 
Judging from the crowded parking places, the majority of the media seems to be commut­i~g from nearby towns and CitieS. 
Sue Glasson, a gift shop clerk, said she thinks the trial has hurt business. ''There is no parking and the old people are afraid of the cameras. Some sneak in the back door to buy things," she said. 
Thou~h Winimac with its population of 2, 300 has not been jarred from its routinely slow/ace by the Ford case, mixe feelings are obvious: it all depends on w~o you talk to. 

-----·--------------------------~------~ 
·The Observer Thursday, January 31, 1980-page ..~ 

[continued from page 1] 

into a guard rail of an express­way and scraped the chrome off. Then, blocked by a collision up ahead, he turned off an exit ramp. 
''The ramp was like glass and I slid all the way down the ramp into the back of a car some joker had left there overnight," he said. After leaving a note on the car, McGuire started up an icy hill. 
''There was no traction and I started sliding backward,'' McGuire said. "That's when this truck coming up the hill rammed me from behind.'' 
While McGuire was waiting for police, another car spun out of control and demolished the front end of his car. 
In western and middle Tenn­essee, a coating of snow, sleet and ice caused numerous traffic accidents andschools turned out in Memphis, Nashville, Knox­ville and Jackson. . 
Chattanooga police spokes­mao Floyd Wilson said as many as 34 cars were involved .in a mass collision at the junction of Interstate 24 and the downtown Interstate 124 spur. 
"It's a mess," Wilson said. ''They've had trouble getting ambulances e,verywhere be­
HappyB'day MaryPopovich 


Carter sees no threat to Caribbean 
WASHINTON (AP) -President Carter says he sees no outside threat to the Caribbean area and therefore will not promise to use military force to defend it. 
Carter thus declined to place the neighboring Caribbean in the same" ''vital interest'' cate­gory as the Persian Gulf. He also asserted that the United States would not be able, now or in the future, to defend the Persian Gulf area by itself. 
The president made the statements Tuesday in a ques­tion and answer session with 
Amway president to speak 
Richard M. Devos, president of the worldwide Amway Corp­oration which he co-founded 10 1959, will be one of the princi­pal speakers at the finance forum at 7 tonight in the library auditorium. The program is sponsored by the finance club and is open to the public. 
DeVos is a native of "Grand Rapids,Mi. At the age of 14 he contracted to move trucks with his lifelong partner, Jay Van Andel, to Montana. The two served in the Air Force together during World War II, operated an air charter service, sailed to the Caribbean on a schooner that sank off the coast of Cuba and then founded the Amway firm after backpacking through South America for a year. 
DeVos supervises the activ­ities of more than 300,000 independent distributorships of Amway in the United States, Canada, J apao, Australia, United Kingdom, Hong Kong, Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, Guam, Malaysia, Bermuda, France, West Germany, Ireland and the Netherlands. His firm manufactures and sells more than 200 household and per­sonal care ,produ(;tS. Sales of the products are expected to exceed one billion dollars in 1980. DeVos is also co-chair­man of the Mutual Broad­casting System, the world's largest radio network, which is owned by Amway. 
. . . Storm 
visiting editors and broad­casters. The White House released a transcript of the session yesterday. 
Carter, who declared last week that any outside threat to the oil-rich Persian Gulf would be repelled by military force if necessary, was asked if the Caribbean also was considered of vital interest to the United States. " 
"Obviously," Carter re­sponded, "the Caribbean is of great interest to our country, and is our closest group of neighbors.'' But he added: 
"I see no military threat to the integrity of the nations in the Caribbean from an outside force, and therefore don't con­sider it necessary to define it as one of vital interest where military action by our own country would be necessary to defend it .... I would not want to threaten. military force there." 
Asked if' 'we do indeed have what it takes militarily'' to redeem his pledge to repel any Soviet threat to the Persian Gulf area, Carter said: 
"I don't think it would be accurate for me to claim that at this time, or in the future, we expect to have enough military strength and enough military presence there to d~fend the region unilaterally.'' 
The president said the United States would need "cooperation from nations ''who are heavily dependent, even more than we are, on an uninterrupted supply of oil from that region" -a ~eference to Western Europe mdJapan. 
In his State of the Union address, Carter said any out­side effort to gain control of the Persian Gulf ''will be regarded as an assault on the vital interests of America and such an assault will be repelled by any means necessary, including military force.'' 
Carter also gave his visitors his first public response to a speech Monday in which Sen. Edward M. Kennedy, his chief rival for the Democratic presi­dential nomination, was sharply critical of administration pol­icies ranging from the economy to the crises in the Persian Gulf. 
Responding to Kennedy's statement that ''we should not be moving toward the brink of sending another generation of the young to die for failures of the old in politics,'' Carter said: 
"I have tried to keep our country at peace. And so far I thank God that we have not had any American service men or women ~ive their lives in combat smce I have been in office. I hope I can go out of this White House with the same record intact." 
"La Boheme"Chorus AUDITIONS 
for all ND/SMC students and faculty 
Thurs., Jan. 31 ,beginning 7om 
Sign ups at Crowle~Hall,Roo1., 206 
N.D. Music: Dept. stage production wlth-N.D. orchestra and Chicago Opera soloists Aprilt9, 20 
This Sunday instead of your "usual" place try our famous CHAMPAGNE BRUNCH February sweetheart prices 
Feb.  3rd $5.00  
Feb.  lOth  $5.50  
Feb.  17th  $5.95  
Feb.  24th  $6.50  

Bring in this ad and a ND o.r SMC Student ID for these prices to apply to your Sunday brunch party . 
Hughes is news 
We make engineering and scientific history year after year. Uke 1976, when five Hughes-developed satellites went Into orbit. 
If you come to work with us, we'll both make news In your home-town paper. 
Help Hughes Aircraft Company make news. And electronic miracles. And history. (And no airplanes.) Ask your placement office when Hughes recruiters will be on campus. 
,------------------, 
I ! 
:HUGHES i 
I I
L------------------J
Creatmg a·new world with electronics 
AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER M/F 
cause of roads being closed, because of traffic being backed up.'' 

FACILITIES MANAGER 
Graduate in Architecture, Electri­cal or Mechanical Engineering with strong interest in construc­tion. Responsible for existing facilities and equipment in 10-15 store region. Seek individual with capability to develop energy con­servation programs. Requires ef­fective communication, negotia­tion and people skills. TGI FRI­DAY'S is Dallas-based r~quiring relocation. 50% flight travel, ex­cellent benefits and growth with an unusually innovative corpora­tion. 
Send resume to Personnel, P.O. BoK 400329, Dlllas, Texas 75240. 
The Observer -Sports Thursday, January 31, 1980 -page 10 
[continued from page 12] 

The Irish had piled up eight straight po1nts before Armstrong and Nowalk com­bined to put Saint Mary's within one at 16-15. 
Notre Dame managed to hold off the Belle attack and headed for the lockerroom with a 36-29 lead. Petro did not express • surprise with the strong Belle 
• • • Matvey defense after the game. "Saint Mary's was playing very aggressive on defense. They have seen us play and know our offense well. They were able to anticipate our passes and they were really hustling,'' complemented the third-year coach. 
The Belles' second-year coach, Jerry Dallessio was also impressed with his team's play. 
Ih>nesbury 

The Daily Crossword 

1131/80
© 1980 by Chicago Trlbune-N.Y. News Synd. Inc. 
All AI his Reserved 


''I was pleased with the way we/layed. We knew what they ha , but just couldn't capital­ize," stated Dallessio, Notre Dame graduate. "We did prove to ourselves that we have 1mproved since December. Notre Dame is one of the toughest if not the toughest teams we play all year, and I'm happy we were in the game until the last few minutes. It was definitely closer than a 17-point ball game." 
Last night's game was surely not a rerun of the Irish 81-45 romp on December 4. The Belle's were in the contest throughout most of the game. The downfall of the Saint Mary's ream was a failure to control the boards, turnovers, and too many missed buckets. The Irish squad outrebounded the 'Belles 58-40. 
Saint Mary's also suffered from a plague of turnovers, committing a far from respect­able 35. The Belles did manage to nab 20 steals in the game, led by Armstrong's five, but could not capitalize. 
Dallessio played down Armstrong's weak scoring night and emphasized the con­tributions of the remaining members. ''In the first half we weren't shooting the ball well at all. When Anne got hurt someone had to take over, when she has a bad game someone just has to jick up. Nancy (Nowalk) an Mary (Zuehlke) did the job. Anne can play a steady, good game even if she doesn't score. " 
''I get nervous when I play Saint Mary's," confessed Petro 
by Garry Trudeau 

25 Broom
ACROSS 24 Half-boot 49 Racket 1 Unafraid 25 Blunder 50 Moon: Lat. 
26 Practical 5 Arthritis 29 Guard or 52 Liturgical 
'27 Alma-drug admiral headdress 28 Heat-meas­suring unit:
9 Familiar 31 Eucharistic 55 Captivate form of wine vessel 60 Fragrance 
abbr. 30 Poetic timeaddress 34 State: Fr. 61 Against 
31 Rugged
14 Strong· 35 Wolfe the 62 Personal: smelling sleuth comb. form ridge 32 Pose
15 Wild goat 36 A Reiner 63 No-hit,­33 Chasm16 Oriental 37 TV fare game 38 Ambitious
17 Val, for 42 Cheer for 64 Move one a matador 65 Black Sea one 
39 Partner18 Calendar 43 Breakers bay abbr. 44 Indians 66 Quick shot 
of toss 40 Infuriation
19 John­45 Debussy's of liquor Garner ULa -" 87 An Ernie 41 -shot 20 Diabolical 46 Kind of 68 Unaspirate (police 22 Personal 
school photo) pledges 
47 Karl Marx DOWN 47 Complete 23 Mountain: 
collabora­1 Ball game 48 Slangy 
comb. form tor 2 Jai -negative 3 Rodents 49 Take 4 Paradise exception
Yesterday's Puzzle Solved: 
5 Dress 51 "-we meet GOLFISMAILL.MOAS 
6 -celebre again" EVIL IIAERIE.ALVA 
7 Cornucopia 52 Furnishes M E R I T S A T T E N T I 0 N 8 Time per-a crew 
P 0 S T E-AT 0 N E iods: abbr. 53 Press S T E S-D ATE­9 Jumper from 54 Matador's ALLIED.ARIA.ARS 
llii 
down under opponent
DEED •• STERN.MAO 
10 Hayes of 56 Iranian
HAVETHELASTMIORD 
music monetary
OSE RADAR ••OLEA 
11 --dong unit 
C E E ALA s• B 0 R~~E
R S 
12 Carp family 57 Wood-shap­
••• S.CALM 
fish ing tool
ARGUE ELBOMIER 
13 Individuals 58 Maned cat
c H A RIL 0 T T E BIR 0 NT E H E L L •c A N A L 0 D E Rl 21 Money: Abbr. 59 Tennis E A S Y.A L lA T E D 0 S El 24 Grassy score 
1/3111 area: Fr. 61 Uraeus 
COLLEGE STUDENTS GUIDE TO FT. LAUDERDALE 
A new comrorehensive book about Ft. Lauderdae written specifically or college students. The book includes a map of the city, locations, phone numbers, prices an~ all the _l~~est information about d1sco's, restauraqts, recreattonal facllmes, places of interest and where to rent everything from cars to roller skates. The book will tell you how to save money and get the most from Jour vacation. Order now by sending your name, address an check or money order for $4.95 to Hansen Publishing & Distributing Co., Dept. M, .P.O. Box 17244, Plantation, Fla. 33318. Your book will be sent by return mail. 
' The Lewis Regulars would like to thank the hosts ofthe Ftrst Annual Pfister Joe's Blowout 
for aPfabulous Time.l It truly was ablowout! Where was Oscar the Owner anyway? 
... J _i'.:
...... ,.' -· ~. . y ,' ~~,. ·: J '": 
after the game. ''They are a good ball club, they're young, they hustle, and they have the desire and spirit to win. They will really be a good team as they mature.'' 
The Irish squad will face Marquette at home this Satur-· day with tip off time set for 3:00 
p.m. Notre Dame will be looking for its fifth straight win and to better its 11-4 season mark. 
Saint Mary's will play host to Findlay College, Saint Mary's of the Wood's and Indiana Tech in the Roundball Classic this weekend at Angela Athletic Facility. The Belles face Saint Mary's of the Woods at 9 p.m. on Friday, defending a 8-5 record. 
Skiers place 
in lstmeet 
Despite problems in the early 
races due to a lack of gate 
training, the Notre Dame-Saint 
Mary's Ski Team had a strong 
performance last weekend. The 
men's team, competing in a 
field of 90 racers and ten teams 
finished fourth, while the 
women's team, now split up 
into separate teams, had some 
top fimshers. 
After steady first runs, Jim 
Byrne and Mike Case turned in 
some of the fastest times on 
their second run to finish 
seventh and 13th, respectively, 
in the slalom, and Jim Comito 
added a 20th place finish. 
Captain Mike Quinlivan led 
the way for the Irish in the giant 
slalom, taking second place, 
while Case (15th) and Byrne 
(21st) again scored. 
In the women's division, Patti Wilson finished fourth in the slalom to lead Saint Mary's to a fourth place finish. The Irish women skied well in the­giant slalom, with Leslie Costello taking 14th. 
Quinlivan feels that the team will peak in the next few races, right in time for the Midwest Championships. "We are always slow starters,'' he ob­served. "We just don't get the early season practice. The Michigan schools have facilities nearby. We held a training camp for 25 skiers out in Utah, but we were prevented from running gates due to lack of snow. 
''But everybody is on their skis and doing well technically from the excellent free skiing out there. So the first couple of meets ared·ust practice for us. We shoul come on strong in the big races late in ~he season, like last year when we sent three men to the National Collegiate Championships.'' 
B-ball scores 
NOTRE DAME (60) 
Jackson 94-5 22, Woolridge 5D-2 10. Salinas 2 0-0 4, Branning 2 2-3 6, Hanzlik 4 2-2 10, Wilcox 0o-o 0, Andree 00-0 0, Varner 3o-o 6, Paxson 1 0-0 2, Mitchell 0 o-o 0. Totals 26 8-12 60. 
LASALLE (62) 
Connolly 12-2 4, Brooks 10 9-11 29, Williams 1 0-0 2. Kanaskie 7 1-2 15, Lynam 3 o-o 6, Word 10-Q 2. Webster 04-4 4, Spain 0Q-0 0. Totals 23 16-19 62. 
Halftime Score-LaSalle 31. Notre Dame 28. Fouled out-Hanzlik, Connolly. Total fouls­Notre Dame 20, LaSalle 16. A-·9,208. 
Kansas St. 66. Missouri 64 
S. Carolina 89. Hofstra 62 
Alabama 80, Miss. St. 68 
Davidson 58. Ap;>alachlan St. 48 
Duke 82, Wake Forest 61 
Mississippi 66. Tennessee 61 
Nebraska 59, Oklahoma 58 Maryland 63, Virginia 61 Syracuse 93, Temple 77 Kentucky 64, Auburn 62 
t ' ' ~ 
' ...',
'.: ,' 


---~------­

_________________...::..__---==---=--~__:.---~-/, 
The Observer -S.ports Thursday' January 31, 1980 -i>iie rr. 
[continued from page 12] !wrestled at 126 in the National Rood (6-9) and DiSabato (17-1) at the -National Catholics as a 
... Wrestlers 
years. 

Sophomore stalwart Curt Rood is also a questionable starter for Sunday. The Sturgis, Mich., native strained ligaments in his left hand 
.against John Carroll last 
weekend and could be lost to 
the starting rotation. 
''Injuries obviously are tak­ing their toll, especially now," relates Sepeta. "It would really hurt our chances to lose Dave, because he is undoubtedly the favorite to repeat his champion­ship this year. Likewise, Curt 
;Catholic tournament as a fresh­
. man last year, and he has been a regular for us at that weight this year. It would really help to have some of his experience in there." Sepeta's main concern now is to nurse his stricken squad back to health and put together a strong lineup to make a run for the National Catholic Cham­pionship which eluded the de­fending champions last year. Freshman 118-pounder Mark Fisher (6-10) is expected to team up with a dose-to-healthy 
and anchor the lightweight end of the Irish lineup. 
The middle weights are bol­stered by senior Dave Welsh (5-3-1), a third-place finisher in the tournament at that weight last year. Senior tri-captain Mike Wilda (8-6-1), who also 5nished third in the 1979 affair gets the nod at 150 while sophomore Fred Kitzi~er will get his first starting asstgnment of the season at 158. 
Freshman Greg Lezynski (1-4) will battle at 167 while John Iglar (8-9-1), a runnerup 
All classified ads must be received by 5:00 p.m. two days prior to the Issue in which the ad is run. The Obserwr office will accept class!f!eds Monday through Friday, 10:00 a.m. to 5;00 p.m. All class1fleds must be pre-paid, either In person or through the mall.
Classifieds 
Join the crowd! POPE JOHN PAUL II ATTENTION SKIERS! 4-SALE! GREAT
Need several student or GA tickets for 
I Personals
FOR PRESIDENT bumper stickers. $1 DePaul. Call 232-7314. WEEK-END SKI PACKAGE TO BOYNE 
each/3 for $2. Satisfaction guarantEied. MOUNTAIN* TRANSPORTATION* 
GOLDEN DOME BOX 41, Begenfield, Need 2 or 4 GA tix for North Carolina FOOD, LODGING,LIFTS! THIS WEEK­
:Notices 
"FROSH-WOMEN UNITE! 
N.J. 07621. State. Call 232-7314. Leslie: END. CALL 75701 
So sorry I screwed up your show last 
SMCFrosh Council invites all SMC/ND week, hope this weeks gaseous cow Anyone Interested In starting up an
Need 2-4 GA's for N.C. State game.
fresh-women to a picnic lunch, which Call Don 1143. improved things -see you Tuesday. NO-SMC Coalition Against tha Registra­
For Rent
includes everything except the ants. It Ryan tion for tha Draft, contact Pat Ireland at 
will be held on Sunday, February 3rd, 
Please, in dire need of 3 DePaul tix. Call 3m. 
1980 at 12 noon-2p.m. in the Regina Hall Female roomate wanted: spacious apart: 
Joe 1407. Carole-Thanks for being the very specialSouth Lounge. FREE ADMISSION. ment at 832 Notre Dame Ave. $77.50 ­
friend you are. Hey Bambi,month. Stay free in February. Call 
Desperately need N.C. State and DePaul Tom I love you!
Social Concerns Film Series Jan. 28-31. 232-8308. The Big VA
tickets. Preferably GA. Top$$. Call Pat
No charge. VOLUNTEERS WANTED:
1791.

Apartments and houses for rent now and 
1. Tutor grade scho.ol students; "Close Shaver, Beginning and Intermediate plano les­English as a second language. Slander is serious business. You'll get
Sept. 1980. Call 234-9364. 
SERIOUSLY NEED 3 GA TIX TO NO. 
sons baing offered. Reasonable rates. 2. Visit male patient, 25 years, in nursing yours!
CAROLINA STATE OR MARQUETTE.
Rooms· for rent $40.00 -month. INear
Call 3429. home.
CALL SEAN 1771 ANYTIME.
rides. 233-1329. 3. Assist Rospice of St. Joseph County in To all my "good friends" on 4th 0(?) clerical work. Morrissey--have fun Friday night
Desperately need 2 GA's for Navy call
1 bedroom for rent in 3 bedroom hOme, Love yaall,
8163.

ost&Found 
on Ironwood Rd. Call 277-0556. 
Contact Volunteer Sevices -7308 Rat 
P.S. Putz too!
LOST: one pair of glasses at NO-Mary­Need DePaul basketball tickets!! (GA &
We rent dependable c'ars from $7.95 a 
Ride needed to Muncie IN or vicinity on
land game. They were in an NBC blazer. day and 7 cents a mile. Ugly Duclding stu.dent). Dad and friends coming from Fri. Feb. 1. Will share expenses. Call fiappy Birthday to a girl who sings likePlease return glasses to 246 Keenan or Ch1cago. Will pay$$. Please call Vicki at
Rent-A-Car, 921 E. Jefferson Blvd. Amy 41-4156. Olivia Newton-John, dances like Ginger
41-4760.
call 3308. 
Mishawaka, Ind. 255-2323. Rogers, looks like Fraah Fawcett. and Suzy -the brownie was delicious! drinks like Dean Martin! (In case you
REWARD! Return of 9reen, ladies Need 2GA or student tix for DePaul. Call
-

For rent: walking distance to ND Seconds sometime? don't know, Suey, this is for you.)
Schwinn with baskets; missmg since Dec. opposite New London Lake on No. Kathy at 1314. HAPPY BIRTHDAY!
Tom
1979 from LaFortune. Write: Morgann, Ironwood. Share 3 bdrm house witt1 two Your loving roomies
Need 2 DePaul GA tickets. Rich 1187.
Box 1734, South Bend, 46634 or call other young men. Ideal for male student THE LEGENDARY I. CAPPA KEGGA IS
288-9379 or 289-4061. 
or faculty member. Call 277-0556. HAVING ITS FIRST BASH THIS FRI Today is Sue Romano's 22nd birthday. If
Need Davidson B-ball tix. Call Tim 
DAY NIGHT. GORGIOUS WOMEN* you find her still standing at Senior Bar,
LOST-tiny Swiss army kr.ife. Call Janice 4 bedroom house for rent in summer. 287-4823. 
DANCING FOOLS* ACHING ATHLETE* buy her a beer.•
at 287-5543. 
Call 287-6325. 
Desperately need 4 GA's for N.C. State. DRIVLING INTELLECTUALOIOS* AND MARGARET McGLYNN (love those aye­Eileen: even though you shot me down a
LOST: 4 keys on leather key ring in or Call Rick, 8739. 
lashes] ARE INVITED. while ago, I still love you.
near Nieuwland Jan. 22. Please call Happy Birthday
Wanted 
FAMOUS AUTHOR WILL BE ON
234-6290 or 232-8592. Desperately need 2 GA's for DePaul Grinch
HAND TO SIGN COPIES OF ITK WANTED: one refrigerator to rent for game. Call 1871. ARTICLE. (but why did you stick me with yourI lost a silver bracelet with alternating 
the semester. Call 7850. Mike-we •want PARTY IS ON 4th FLOOR OF DORM roommate)
silver pendants and amethyst (violet) Desperately need 1 GA for Davidson.
fridge but you taft wrong numb•u. Call AND VICINITY OF THAT SANCTUARY
stones. If you find It, please bring to 
back! Call 6747. OF SAGA AT SOH. Rick McMonagle has back spasms butLyons or Lost and Found. 
who cares? ­NO TEETOTTLERS ALLOWED.
I NEED MANY GA TIX TO DePAUL.
One secretary for afternoons 3-5pm. A
LOST: One red backpack at North Dining MEN FROM CHGO. WILL PAY VERY
paid po'sition. Typing skills needed. Call D, Anne, MB and Jan. It's Eileen O'Reilly's birthday but, sorry
Hall in A & B line. If found please call BIG BUCK$$$ Call8437. 11pm-1am.
WSND 7425. Just wanted to say hi. guys, Eileen knows that Navy ROTC boysBart 6970. 
Luv make the best seamen. Wanted: expired Indiana license plates MS Happy Birthday
LOST: Ladies gold watch at Canisius !need 2GA DePaul tickets tor Dad before
tor hobby collection. Joe 8386. BM 
game. Call 8111 or 3881. 
I graduate. Mick 8212. 
RANDEE JENNINGS lOST: It-yes I'm losing all that I own. 
Babysitter wanted for 1Y2 year old. PLEASE PICK UP YOUR DECEMBER BEAUTIFUL. . 
Tuesdays and Thursdays 10-5 near Multiple Dayton GA's needed. Offers. PAYCHECK FROM CEIL IN THE OB, Happy Anniversary seven times over.
Two sets of keys, one set with purple key, 
campus. 232-9541. Mick-8212. SERVER OFFICE -PROMPTLY. Thanks for everything and remember Ione set with 2 VW keys, one Georgia 
Love You very much.
driver's license. Please call Andy at 
Need GA 's to Dayton game. Help me · 
Hey! If you've got any talent in artistic XXXXXXXO "Fred"
234-6353. 
Mick 8212.
All interestep students: high paying design and/or advertising call WSND 
Lost: Sat. Night in Morrissey, heart part-time jobs on campus...you set the 7425...and put it to good use. Girls, ba tha first to call "Mobert" and
Help! Need 2GA Marquette tickets. Call
shaped locket with initials (gold) hours. Write: Collegiate Press, Box 556, The Rock Tower wish him a Happy Birthday at 3467. 
Karen 6798.
SMC--5207 Belleville, Mich. 48111 now. No obligation. Want to... Everyone remember that today is Cathy
I need 2GA's for any NO home basketball 
Gain valuable sales experience
LOST: Lady's gold wristwatch brand Maus' birthday, even though she probab­
game. Will pay top dollar. Call Jafl 
name Elgin. Flat link band 1A inch wide Instructor wanted to teach MCAT class. round out your resume ly won't tomorrow.
8764.

with clasp. A special gift from my folks -Call collect (317) 463-7541. earn a few dolars 
Join the WSND advertising sales team,
~lease help! Substantial reward if The WSND "Action Jock" comes your
In dire need of Marquette -N D b-ball tiJ
returned. Call 1986. Room-mate wanted to share house. 2 call 7425. way tonight at ten, 64 on your AM dial.
[GAor student]. Call John In evenings al
miles from campus. Excellent nlsigh­
2118-5891.
Found: One glove with orange and blue borhood. $125 mo. Call John 233-6573. Kathy, Catherine,
I' II dance the rumba with you anytime! Happy 21st!
during recent

markings. Found a I desperately need many DePaul tix.
basketball game. Visit OBSERVER office Anyone needing riders to Penn Statll call O.K. FINE Love,
Please! CaDD Steve 8696, hurry!
to identify. Jeff 6801. Your sis
LOST: Glasses in blue-gray case. Call
Need 2 GA tix for N.C. State$$ Call Paul
Found: bracelet in front of Hayes-Healy Anyone having an insurance book to sell 3597. Attractive females may stop by 310
233-9186. 
on Wednesday, Jan. 23. Call to identify call Jeff 6801 . Pangborn or call 8410 to wish Rich 8742 ask for Mike. MIKE "MOBERT" OLENIK: O'Donnell a Happy 20th Birthday.
Need GA's: 1 Davidson, 5 N.C. State.
Three SMC students need ride to Chicago YOUR TIME HAS COME! 20 YEARS
Tom 7666 or 289-6543. ,
Found: gold necklace with locket and on Friday. Please call: Chrissa 41--4155 IS LONG ENOUGH TO WEAR OLD Clancy, heart. Call Pat -1650. or Lisa 41-4151. SPICE AND HAVE A GOATEE. SER We_'ll be joining you and your two PETS
Need 1-4 DePaul tix. Will pay whatever it 
IOUSLY* HAPPY BIRTHDAY ANIJ ton1ght as you lower the boom in honor of
takes to get them. Greg 1728.
FOUND: A birthday card found in Wnted: ambitious and talented persons REMEMBER: "IT'S BETTER TO BURN your big day. Happy Birthday and many 
Memorial Library-envelope had name in to fill staff. Call WSND 7425 Donna or OUT THAN IT IS TO RUST" happy returns! Bow-Wow, Bark-Bark,
Desperately need 2-3 N.C. State B B tix,
pencil with amoney gift. Check Lost and Darryl. MAC, HERB, POZ, Munc, SHEP, ETC. Arf-Arf!
GA's, please call Dan or Bob 3324.
Found to identify. P.S. NICE KNOWING YOU! Love and Licks,$205.80 possible for 5 hours wor~: per The Long Haired Irish Setter
Got to have many GA DePaul tixs $$
Found: asingle key at Alumni Hall's SO's weak in your room. Answer in fina1ncial Two red-hot women in search of the The German Shepherdess and
Barry 2106.
party. Call 4579 and identify. security. P.O. Box 8234-N Huntington · ULTIMATE VALENTINES. Call in The Bureau Beagle w.v. 25705 qualifications at 3947 between 7-Bp.m.
Need tickets to the Marquette game on
Lost: silver necklace with black coral at 224 Dillon
the 24th of Feb. Mike 8501.
ACC. If found call Mike-1813. Need ride to U of I at Champaign on Dear Range Patti -with-an-'I'-not-a-'Y'­TO THE "MEN" WHO SHOWED US Friday, Feb. 1. Call Bill 288-5784. on-the-end-pi-your-name; we're going to YOU CAN HAVE YOUR CAKE AND Need 1 GA ticket for Davidson. Call Ann try ONE MORE TIME: How often do you EAT ITTOO. DON'T COUNT YOURFor Sale TWO NEED RIDE TO SOUTH CHICAGO 277-4976. get eaten by a Griffin??? (Please don't CHICKEN BURGERS BEFORE YOU 
FEB. 1. CALL 4-1-4518. blush too hard). FIND THEM IN YOUR PANTS. THE Needed: 4-6 GA NC State B-ball tickets. R.T CAKE SCARFERS STRIKE AGAIN! 
Nine Princeton Kierkegaard volumes. 
Will pay top dollar. Call Andy 8851. P.S. Haven't forgotten you, Clare, NK, NJ, JP. RBSM 
Like new. 272-7347. 
Shannon and Mary Powel, STAY AWAY Desperately need 2 GA tickets for FROM RABBITS! ~!J~i~~
Tickets 
Pro-American "HEY IRAN" defiance [.;• l
Need student tix for N.C. Statfl and DePaul. Will pay good money. Call Pete.
T-shirts available. $5 delivered. 3colors, 
DePaul. Call Bolo 1610. 6775. WANT TO LEARN HOW TO WRITE A
4 slzas. Phone 1866 for details. 
RESUME? This and other essentials Wanted: 2GA, 2student B-ball tix to San Need 2 GA B-ball tix for N D vs taught to Seniors in Putting It All
Raichle Strata ski boots, mens size 8. 
Fran. Call Joe -8192. Marquette. Call 3429. Together -atwo-part workshop on Feb. 5
This year's model. new. Call Jay 3815. 
and Feb. 7 at 4pm in President's Board NEED DePAUL TICKETS Needed -1-6 student or GA tix to Room. Sign up in the Career Develop­
FOR SALE: Marantz 1060 integrated 
$$$$$$$ Marquette. Call John 1143. ment Center, SMC. 
amp. 30w/ch., walnut case, call 277-2749 
call m-2344 or 7857 
freshman, will take to the mat at 177. 
Season-long mainstays Maurice Beshlian (1-14), at 190, and Tom Wroblewski (9-4), at heavyweight, will close out the scale-tippmg end of the Irish lineup. 
"We managed to turn our 
season  around  at  this  same  
tournament  last year,''  notes  
Sepeta.  
"Maybe again.''  the  time  is  right  

-----'·· 
~·· 


Thursday,January 31, 1980-page 12 
Golfer hits clutch points 
Webster's chip shots beat Irish 
by Tony Pace free throw shooter couldn't Phelps was surprisingly Editor Emeritus make four in a row, could he? relaxed after the loss, knowmg Only against Notre Dame. full well that his team should 
PHILADELPHIA--AI Webster, who came to make the NCAA tournament. McGuire would have loved it. LaSalle on a golf scholarship, "We are just going through The coaches' knuckles were sank two more charity tosses some growing pains," he said. white from the opening tap and iced the Explorers' win. "We caught LaSalle when they until Michael Brooks joyously LaSalle's coach Dave were hot, and playing with heaved the ball into the "Lefty" Ervin couldn't have intensity. That's how we would Palestra's rafters. LaSalle been happier with the win. like to be playing in March, just shocked Notre Dame with a "I'm really elated. This is how like Michigan State last year." hard-fought but well-de_served I've been trying to play all When asked about fouling 62-60 victory, season. Maybe I should get Webster, Phelps responded 
It's not that the Irish didn't more golfers to come out for the that he was "just playing the have their chances, but some team. percentages.'' nights the shots don't fall-­'·It seemed," Ervin said, "Some times that's the while the other guy can't miss. "that we were waiting to lose easiest way to lose," he added. 
some games down the stretch.
With Notre Dame trailing GAME NOTES--LaSalle hit 84 
This night we knew we were
57-55 with one minute left, percent at the free throw line 
Digger Phelp instructed his going to win, and Webster (16-19), while Notre Dame defenders to foul number li-­made sure of it." 
could only connect on 66 per­
the Explorers' Greg Webster. LaSalle's "Lefty" disagreed cent of their free throws Rich Branning fouled him, and with that other left-handed (8-12) .... Among rhe alumni in 
the 44 percent free throw coach from Maryland about attendance at the game were 
shooter was sent to the line. how the absence of Kelly former gridders Ken MacAfee Webster cooly sank both ends Tripucka affected the Irish. and Joe Restic, both dental of the one-and-one. Bill "Without Tripucka there's no 
students at the University of 
Hanzlik answered with a three doubt that they are a much Pennsylvania. MacAfee onlydifferent team ... we were lucky
point play that cut LaSalle's goes to school in the off-season, 
lead to 59-58. to play them when he was out.'' 
playing for the San Francisco 
Time out. Phelps' instruc­Webster's free throw shoor­49' ers in the fall ... Freshmen 
tion--foul Webster. ing to ice the game over­Bill Varner and John Paxsonshadowed an outstanding per­
This time Stan Wilcox did the both saw stints of duty. Varner honors. Surely a 44 percent formance by Irish forward had one of his ~etter perform­
Tracy Jackson. Jackson scored ances: six points, three re­2 2 points, 14 in the first half, bounds, two assists and two while grabbing 11 rebounds. 
steals ... Bill Hanzlik couldn't 
At times it seemed the junior buy a basket down the stretch,would be Notre Dame's only ending up shooting four for
Wrestlers contend for Catholic crown 
offensive threat. 
eleven on the night. .. Phila­LaSalle was led by All-Amer­
delphia Phillies' shortstopby Btl/ Marquard second-place John Carroll by 27 tourney has been one of ican Forward Michael Brooks, Larry Bowa to consol the Irish Sports Wn'ter points, 92 to 65. Sepeta is not DiSabato's most successful who lived up to his press after the game.looking for such a commanding meets. As a junior last year he notices with a 29 point, 11 
"If we have a full team with win, but he hopes that his mat placed first at 134 pounds after rebound performance. Most of Box score us, there is no doubt we will be charges will stay close enough seconds at 126 the previous two Brooks' baskets came in situa­contenders-,we can definitely to the pack to be on top when tions with Notre Dame defend­
[continued on page 11] --page 10
be counted into the champion­the National Catholic dust ers draped all over him. ship picture.'' finally clears. 
Notre Dame wrestling coach "I see our injury situation as Ray Sepeta exudes optimism as the key determining factor for he prepares for the National our success this weekend,·' 
ND's Matveypaceswin overSMC
Catholic Invitational Tourna­explains the veteran tutor. ment at)ohn Carroll University "Everyone on the team has the in Cleveland, Ohio, on Sunday, talent and experience to place by Beth Huffman points in the bucket. ing a costly four turnovers. February 3. in the tournament, many near Armstrong, the leading Near the 13 minute mark in the
Women 's Sports Editor 
Yet, realizing the caliber of the top. scorer for Saint Mary's, was initial period Armstrong sus­competition that the Irish will "But our lineup is so deplet­Once again it was the Shari averaging an even 17 points per tained an injury and was side­face this weekend, Sepeta's ed, particularly in the lower Matvey show leading the Notre game going into last night's lined. optimism is, at best, guarded. weights, where we usually Dame women's basketball team contest. In the Irish-Belle clash Curiously enough it was dur­
"Teams like Marquette, enjoyed a quick start in most of to a victory. This time the 6-1 Armstrong seemed to meet ing Armstrong's absence that Seton Hall and St. John's our meets, that our doctor is freshman's dazzling 19 points nothing but trouble. The 5-foot Saint Mary's made its biggest (Minn.) cannot be overlooked probably more qualified to pre­and 10 rebounds led Notre 5-inch speedster failed to score :Issault on the Notre Dame lead. because they have been consis­dict the outcome than I am,'' Dame to a 73-56 win over Saint in the first half while committ-[continued on page 10]tently strong in past years. quips Sepeta. 
Mary's last night.
''And as defending champ­Dave DiSabato, Notre 
Matvey tied and then passed
ion, John Carroll would have to Dame's senior tri-captain and 
Carol Lally's record of 116 field 
be counted as the favorite, all-time career winner with 90 
goals in a season at the start of 
particularly before irs own match decisions in his favor, 
the game with two quick lay­
home crowd,·· sars the fifth­was forced to watch from the ups. Matvey needs just two year wrestling memor. sidelines as his teammates more points to even Lally'sThe host Blue Streaks ran dropped a tough 26-19 decision single-season scoring record of 
away from last rear's field, to John Carroll over the week­
281 to notch her fourth Notre 
despite Notre Dame's strongest end. The flashy freestyler Dame record this season. showing of the season. The suffered a painful combination In supporting roles for the Irish finished only two points of thumb, knee and rib injuries 
Irish were forward Tricia 
behind Marquette, who placed against Millikin andWabash the 
McManus, who contributed 14 
a distant second. previnus weekend which leaves points with as many rebounds Yet in 1978 it was a different his National Catholic status 
and ) ane Politiski, who came 
story, as the host Irish cruised questionable. 
off the bench to hit 14 points 
to a decisive win, overcoming And the National Catholic 
while hauling in 10 from the boards. "It's nice to have Jane 
back,'' offered Irish mentor Sharon Petro after her team's
Sports Briefs_-------. 

Shan'Matvey [center] scored 19 points to lead Notre Dame toa 73-56 win over St. Mary's at the ACC. [photo by Mzke 
Bzgley] 
• I' 
~---------~----------------------------------------------------------------~------~----~ 
win in the Ace. "She's coming back slowly and she looked better in this game than any other since she got hurt.'' 
Politiski, a 5-11 senior for the Irish is back after nurturing an ankle injury she suffered earlier in the season. 
Sparking_ the Belles' counter attack was the lone senior of the squad, Nancy Nowalk. Nowalk usually shares the limelight with guard Anne Armstrong. Against the Irish Nowalk was instead aided in scoring by Mary Zuehlke, who put nine 
Logan takes WCHAhonors 
MINNEAPOLIS._} eff Logan of Notre Dame, a sophomore from Grosse Pointe Shores, Michigan, was named Player of the Week. in the Western Collegiate Hockey Association. 
Logan paced Notre Dame's 8-5, 7-5 sweep of Michigan Tech last weekend with a hat trick in each game. The right wing totals 14 goals this season. 
The Irish moved from sixth to third place in the WCHA and post a 10-8 record (14-11 overall). Lefty Smid:'s club hosts Wisconsin this weekend in a Saturday-Sunday afternoon series at the ACC. Faceoff is scheduled for 1:30 both days and Saturday's game is already sold out. 




