, , . Presidential picks -page 6 

Victims abound after latest crime wave 
by Davtd Sarphie 
The Notre Dame campus was ravaged by a wave of crime and violence over the week-long Fall break, as three rooms of one dorm were burglarized and one student was beaten. 
Officials indicated that the thieves may have been the same ones responsible for earlier crimes, both on and offcampus. Additionally,. two unrelated off-campus robberies occurred. 
Two suspects have been arrested in the October 23 assault of Keenan Hall resident Andy Farah. 
Keenan Rector Fr. Richard Conyers said that two South Bend residents, Dan Adkins, 19, and a juvenile, were brought to the campus as guests of three Keenan Hall residents. 
The two became separated from the students and proceeded upstairs, where they entered two unlocked rooms. They vandalized and robbed both rooms. Taken from the rooms were several books, calculators, and miscellaneous items. 
The resident of one room, Mike Travis, remarked that several stereo components were severely damaged, as was a television. He surmised that the two burglars were planning to steal the stereo components, as they had been stacked next to the door. 
Subsequently, several stolen items were found near the car of the three Keenan residents who had brought the thieves to campus. Several officials believe that the two were planning to steal the car. 
Fr. Conyers noted that the criminals were "drunk or high or both." He deduced this from their reckless handling of the components. 
The thieves left the two burglarized rooms and went downstairs, where they found Andy Farah asleep in front ofhis television. He was hit on the forehead witha bowling pin which had been taken from one of the upstairs rooms. Still groggy, he fell to the floor, chipping his tooth. The two individuals hit Farah once again on the back of the 
.,.. head, demanding money. "I woke up and saw these guys standing over me," Farah t;elated. "It looked alm.ost like they had guns and they wanted money." The thieves quickly left, and Farah immediately called Notre Dame 
; .....,.. .
Security. Farah was later taken to St.Joseph's Hospital, where he received 11 stitches in his forehead and three in the back ofthe head. The assault 
;~;-­
also caused a hairline fracture and concussion. Working on names provided by the three Keenan residents who had originally b.rought the delinquents to campus, Security was able 
Rosemary Whalen contributes to her team, the Saint Mary's Belles vo!!eyha!! 
to apprehend the ~ndividuals. "We found one ofthe suspects outside tottrney. See related story on page 9. (Photo by Greg Maurer) a South Bend bar trying to sell a calculator," Assistant Security Director Rex Rakow said. "Because ofFarah's quick action in calling 
us, we were able to capture them." 
Many of the stolen items have been retrieved by Notre Dame Despite student vote .. 
Security and the South Bend Police Department. Fr. Conyers said that the three Keenan residents who brought the 

Trustees nix student senate 
VOLUME XV: NUMBER 44 

notre dame and saint mary's TUESDAY, OCTOBER 28, 1980 
Plimpton comments on his career 

George Plimpton, currently the editor o.i:" The Par/r Review, i:-­renowned for his journalistic in­volvemen~s in sportsani politics. He was interviewed recently by Observer reporter Mike O'Brien. 
Q: In his latest book, Thomas Wolfe 
listsyour writing as an example ofNew Journalism. What is New journalism? 

.Plimpton 
A: I wouldn't have put myself in there, but I'm very flattered because I admire him. It seems to me that NewJournalism is a very personalized type of journalism, very subjective, even to the point of the language ... whereas the only thing I've done subjective is the approach ofgetting involved with these (sports) teams. The reportage that I do once I get in there is pretty much straight for­ward. 
Q: Exactly how does thts new jour­naltsm differ from old journalism? 
A: Much more of one's self is involved, as well as tricks of lan­
[continued on page 3] 

thieves to campus have since been permanently removed from the dorm. The action taken by Dean Roemerwas termed "very generous" by the Keenan rector. 
"Although the students weren't directly involved in the crimes, there were certain related circumstances which caused their dismissal from the dorm," he said. "I thought the Dean was very reasonable in his actions." 
The rector was optimistic tha~ the capture of these suspects may 
[continued on page 4] 

When will it end? 
Hostage stalemate continues 
by The Associated Press 
Iran's Parliament, the Majlis, failed again yesterday to reach a decision on the fate of the 52 American hostages after a debate of nearly six hours and will resume the discussion W ednes­day, informed sources in Tehran reported. 
A Tehran Radio broadcast said the United States was indulging in "wishful thinking" about the debate. 
"They are now bragging about the imminent release of the hostages," it said after the session.· "This is a rumor with which they want to gratify themselves." 
Continuing the secret debate 
that began Sunday, the 228­

member Majlis met for four . 
hours in the morning, recessed 
for two hours for prayers, and 
then met again in the afternoon 
for nearly two· hours. 
No meeting will be held Tues­day because it is a religious holiday. But the parliament will meet again Wednesday to con­tinue the debate. Like today's meetings, it will be a special session since the regular meeting days are Sunday, Tuesday and Thursdav. 
"It is O'er clear when a decision will be reached on the hostage issue," a spokesman at the public relations office of the Majlis said before the mornin_g session. 
Tehran  Radio  reported  the  
Ma jlis  also  discussed  the  war  
between Iran and  Iraq  at  the  
morning meeting.  

Two factors appeared to be extending the debate, which some reports had suggested would be resolved in a single day. One was the wave of optimistic rumors from the United States of imminent release for the hos­tages, which a Tehran radio broadcast today implied was a form of pressure on Iran. 
The other was Iran's battlefield losses to Iraq in the 36-day-old Persian Gulf war. Iranian offi­cials have accused the United States of sidi'1g with Iraq in the conflict. 
proposal, the move to transfer the power of the largely inef­fectual Campus Life Council to the new Senate was choked offby the Student Affairs Committee at its meeting Thursday, Oct. 16. 
The Committee recom­mended to Riehle instead that he "revitalize" the CLC through a revision of its constitution, but Riehle's move to bypass the CLC with the Student Senate is now apparently dead. 
Student Affairs Committee ChairmanJohnA. Schneider told Riehle he felt that having the Senate make proposals to a group (the CLC) instead of one individual (the Vice President for Student Affairs) would alleviate the pressure that Riehle's pro­posal would cause. The com­mittee said the pressure of having one body which repre­sents 8,000 students proposing to one man could create bad rapport between students and the administration. 
Riehle was dejected that the Committee rejected a proposal which had such overwhelming student backing, but pointedout that the Committee encouraged him to make changes in the CLC constitution, and they asked him to report to aJanuary meeting of 
the Executive Board, something 
he termed a "majorconce:.;sion." 
But Riehle's "management of dissent," as committee member Jane Cahill Pfeiffer called it, now takes on a different structure from the one he had envisioned, and the students ratified, before the meeting. As it now stands, the newly created Student Sen­ate will make proposals to the CLC, which then makes pro­posals to Fr. Van Wolvlear, the vice presidert t for student affairs. 
The principal complaint with the CLC, which Riehle's admin­istration has ignored this year, is that having Van Wolvlear and other Administration members on a board which then reports to those same peoplt: is sel~ de­feating, or"redundant" as Riehle called it. Therefore, if Riehle harbors any hopes for change, he now can only accomplish· it through a change in the CLC. 
Riehle says he will "take apart the CLC constitution the same way we took apart the Student Government constitution," but whether or not that means elim­ination of Administration mem­bers has not yet been deter­mined. 
[continued from page 3] 
hy Kathy Corcoran and Tom jackman 
Although 96 percent of the voting student body voted in favor of Student Body President Paul Riehle's Student Senate 


.. 


NewsBrie_b
~b;y~Th:e~O~h=se:rv:er~a:n~d~T.~'he~A;:s:so:.cia:te,=d~P:re:SJ9F.In;==S=:=l.d:;=e==Tu=e=sd=:=a=y======T~u~e~sd~a~,~O~c~t~o~b~e~r~2~8~,::Jl~9~8~0~-~p~a~gge~2~ 
Iran lost contactwith its embattled port city of Khorramshahr yesterday while Iraqi infantry and armored columns fought a fierce battle for the bridge leading to Iran's giant refining center at Abadan, war communiques reported. Iran acknowledged for the first time that Iraqi tanks and infantry platoons had made their way around Abadan and that the city faced assaults from the south as well as the north. "In spite of their inferior military equipment, the Iranian forces are resisting the enemy," Tehran radio said in a dispatch that detailed fighting on and around the strategic bridge that links Khorramshahr with the road to Abadan, 10 miles to the south. The span is located immediately south ofKhorramshahr, which the Iraqis claimed they seized Friday. Iran denied the city had fallen, but late Sunday Iran's Prime Minister Mohammad Ali Rajai said the situation at the port city was "critical."-AP 
The Metropolitan Opera orchestra 
voted overwhelmingly yesterday to accept a new four-year contract, and the nation's top labor mediator worked to reconcile the Met and its other employees in efforts to salvage the canceled 1980-81 season. The orchestra's vote was 78-11 for acceptance, with one abstention and six members absent, said Max L. Arons, president ofLocal802, American Federation of M~sicians. Arons said he hoped the remaining unions would qmckly approve their contracts to allow the Met's golden curtain to rise for a belated start of the opera's 97th season. In all, more than 1,900 unionized employees in 17 unions must approve new terms before a belated start of the season is possible. But accords were regarded as very close in most cases. ~rank M. Taplin, president ofthe Metropolitan OperaAssocia­tiOn, told reporters after an executive board meeting that the last management offer "constituted management acceptance of the I?usicians' terms." In addition to resolving the perfor­mance tssue, the settlement provided for pay increases totaling 34 percent over the four-year period and guaranteed labor peace during. the opera's centennial celebration in 1983. -AP 

Jefferson Airplane/Starshio foun­
der Paul Kantner was in senous condition yesterday attedars­Sinai Medical Center after suffering a stroke, a hospital spo~eswo:nan said. Kantner, 39, was conscious and talking in the mtenstve care unit after the weekend stroke, which hospital spokes:voman Te~s Griffin described as a cerebral hemorrhage. She satd Kantner s condition was stable and no surgery was planned. A spokeswoman for the band's San Francisco-based record company, Grunt Records, said Kantner entered the hospital Sunday. Kantner had been in Los Angeles with the band for about a month, she said, recording a followup to their last albu~n, "Freedom At Point Zero." Kantner, a guitarist, b~gan hts career in 1965, helping to found the ]efferson Atrplanc.::, known for its popularization ofacid rock with such songs as "White Rabbit." In 1974, he and Grace Slick the mother of his 8-year-old daughter, China, assembled the band which became the Starship. -AP 
l!2an~a~ troops loyal to ousted 
Prestde'nt Idt Amtn reportedly badly damaged the district capital of Arua, according to travelers who went through ~gan.da's northern West Nile region yesterday following an mvaston there. The travelers said large sections of the town have been looted and many buildings destroyed in fighting that er~pted Oct. 6 when A min loyalists attacked from neighboring ~atre a 1d Sudan. Reports from the region still areconfused, but tt appeared thousands oftribesmen in the West Nile region still loyal to Amin have fled to Zaire from counter-attacking Ugandan and Tanzanian forces.The travelers said several th?u.sand people in the area have taken refuge in church mtsstons to avoid retribution by government forces. The :anzanians a:e part of more than 10,000 troops who remained m Uganda after Amin was ousted 16 months ago. They have served as the major peacekeeping force for Uganda. -AP 
.Ronald Reaean leads narrowly over 
] tmmy Carter going into 'ffie final week of the presidential campaign as wavering Democrats move into Carter's camp, according to the Associated Press-NBC news poll. The latest AP­~C news poll says Reagan leads Carter by six percentage pomts. Other pubhshed polls say the race is closer, with some making it a dead heat. In general, comparable results from the polls ~all within the error margins ofsuch surveys. Many of the wavenng voters are looking to today's showdown debate between the twu contenders as a possible key to their decisions. And possible developments concerning the U.S. hostages in Iran continue to loom as a potentially major influence on the race. Reagan is now the choice of42 percent ofthe likely voters, the poll says, while Carter is backed by 36 percent. Independent candidateJohn Anderson was named by 10 percent, 3 percent named others and 9 percent were not sure. -AP 
Partlv cloudy and cool todayand tonight, with a 50 percent chance of rain this afternoon and highs in the mid­40s. Cloudy and cool tonight and tomorrow, with highs in the upper 20s tonight, and the mid to upper 40s tomorrow.-AP 


Of Politics and Practicality 
Editor's note: Frank LaGrotta's column regularly appears on the sports pages of The Observer. Today, however, LaGrottaparts with thefield ofsport to comment on the current presidential campaign. 
Up until last Monday, October 20, I had never seen a U.S. President. I mean for real, up close, in the flesh, with nothing between him and me except the air, 300 Secret Service men, twice as many reporters and photographers, as well as every city, county and state policeman on the payroll. 
So, when it was announced that Jimmy Carter would make a campaign stop in my hometown of Beaver Falls, Pa., I made plans to get there early and witness the first presidential visit in the history of the city. 

"You're getting up at what time?!" my friend asked warily when I called to ask him to ac­company me. . "Six o'clock," I repeated. "He's arriving in Beaver Falls at 9:30 and.... " 
"You're getting up at six o'clock to seeJimmy Carter?!" he interrupted. "I wouldn't get up at six o'clock to seeJimmy Carter if he were coming to my house for breakfast!" 
And he hung up. My friend is a Republican and one of many Americans (including myself) who wouldn't vote for Carter if he were running unopposed. But that wasn't the principle of the matter. I wanted to see a president and, un­fortunately, Carter was the only thing available. 
So there I was: 7:30 on a Monday morning, shivering on the corner of 13th Street in down­town Beaver Falls, waiting to catcha glimpse ofthe President. He was scheduled to make a short speech. Interest groups and party workers were outen masse. Signs and banners were mixed in their support for the President. 
Since Beaver Falls is a town that depends heavilv on the production of steel, many of the loc~l steelworkers came to voice their concern about issues affecting the working man-especially unemplovment.
A march scheduled by the local steelworkers union to show support for the President had practically fizzled. Instead of the expected 3000 marchers, barely 200 showed up. 
"The union tells us to vote for Carter," griped one angry, unemployed steelworker. "That's be­cause the guys upstairs got their jobs. They're drawin' a paycheck. I got four kids, a wife and a hell of a big mortgage. I worked 27 years on the same job in the same mill. Then, two months ago they come and tell me they're shuttin' down. They tell you they're sorry and they don't need you any­more. Well, what the hell am I supposed to do? A hundred-fifty bucks a week (his unemployment compensation) don't go too far these days." 
I asked him if he was blaming the President. 
"Blamin' him?" he smiled. "I guess you can't say he did anything to really cause it. But he ain't done a damn thing to help us. Maybe I can't blame him, but I sure ain't voting for him either!" 

Dm[(n Edlior..... Ryan Ver Berkmoes Dm[!.n AssistrllltJ ........Jeanne Laboe Eileen Murphy Layout Staff........... Maura Murphy Diane Mazurek Dav/N1/(ht Techn;dans ... Bruce Oakley Tina Terlaak NewJ Edrtor............ Tom Jackman Copy Edtlor ... ........ Carol Mullaney SportJ Copy Edtlor ...... Beth Huffman TypiJ!s. ............ Michelle Kelleher Suzv Selentic Sy1temJ Technrdan ....... Tim. Debelius ND Day Editor .. ..... Patsy Campbell Photoffapher . ............ Greg Maurer GueJt Appearance! . ....... Sue Kelleher Moosey McGrath And All That Snow!!! 
The Observer (USPS 598 920) Is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Oburver !s8ubllshed 


Frank LaGrotta 

At 9:4 5 the sirens started and the President's motorcade approached. He rode by quickly, standing through the opened roof ofa limousine, flanked by hundreds of men with wires running from their coats to their ears-all staring blankly ahead. Carter's patented smile was radiant; how­ever the welco·me he received from a traditionally Democratic constituency was, at best, lukewarm. 
"I'm glad to be here in Beaver Falls," he told the 
crowd. "I always save the beststops on the road for 
last." 

(No applause-he tried again.) 
"My mother told me to be sure and tell you that 
she's a big fan ofJoe Namath." (Namath was born 
and raised in Beaver Falls.) 

(Thunderous applause-for Namath.) 
Then he proceeded to reel offhis litany of"Bad 
things Ronald Reagan has said and done and will 
say and do tf elected." 

"We can't take the chance and vote for Reaga:1!" 
he proclaimed. • 
"Why not?" muttered an elderly woman 
standing next to me. · 

"What the hell has Carter done for this 
country?" she demanded. "People aren't working 
and even the ones that are can't afford the cost of 
living." 

I asked her ifshe was blaming President Carter. 
"Well...yeah, I guess I am," she said. "After all, he's been president for four years and everything, both in this country and in foreign countries, has gotten worse. I can't think ofone good thing he's done. If I were a businessman and had the choice between hiring a guy who worked for me and had done a terrible job for four years or taking a chance on a new guy who mightbe just as bad but might be better, I'd take the chance. I think that's what the people have to do. Take a chance." 
But look, I told her, at all the people here supporting Carter. · 
"They aren't here because they're gonna vote for him," she assured me. "They're here because they wanted to see him. After all, he is the President." 
When Carter finished and the crowd dispersed I heard two men talking. 
"He didn't say much," said one man. 
"Ah, whatta you expect?" said the other, "He's just a politician." "But he's the President," argued the first. "Too bad, huh?" "Well, maybe. Anyway, it's time to get back to 
work." "Nah, not me. Plant shut down two weeks ago. I'm loafin'." 
by the students of Notre arne and 

all seats reserved '9.50-'8.50
Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $20 per year ($10 per semester) by writing The 


TICKETS ON SALE-NOW.::·~ 
Observer, P.O. Box 0, Notre 

also Cook'• Dept. Store; aroadmoor Shopping c.ntw;
Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class 

loogle ltecordl, Col.... Scwu•••; Jwt for the ltecord, 100
postage paid, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 

Cent•; 5wpencl•d Chord, Elkhart; 1'he lteconl Joint, .... 
The Observer .Is a member of the 

Plaza, ...._ and IUver City ltecordl (all four locatloM 
Associated Press. All reproduction 
lnclucllng
rights are reserved. 



-_.. ------__,___ . 
The Observer Tuesday, October 28, 1980-page 3 
• • • Plimpton 
[continued from page lJ 
guage, so that when you see it, it's tremendously identifiable and impressionistic. It uses devices that will remove it from the norm of straightforward newspaper story. 
Q: Which writers would be good examples of New Journalism? 
A: Norman Mailer in The Stepsof the Pentagon and Armies of the Night. Tom Wolfe himself, of course. 
Q: How did New journalism develop? 
A: I don't really know...I guess Mr. Wolfe popularized it. There was a sort of journalism called Gonzo journalism which was Hunter Thompson. I'm much closer to those cats. Hunter Thompson wrote a book called Hells' Angels in which he joined the Hells' Angels. That's sup­posed to be a pure example of macho, Gonzo journalism in which you worked hard for a different approach. 
Q: You were intimately associated with the 1968 presidential campaignofBobby Kennedy. Compare that cam­paign with the current one. 
A: The huge difference was that the (Vietnam) war was going on and the whole country was in huge turmoil... really rent by the war. In this campaign the divi­sions stem from economic prob­lems, but are not anything like then. Campuses were in a storm and racial problems were much more difficult than they are now. There was a terrific division in the Democratic party and of course, that campaign was car­
ried on with s\ich a different intensity, the issues drawn so vividly. It seemed to me to be a campaign which the whole coun­try was into, while this one is more of beauty campaign they are not really interested in. 
Q: How do Bobby and Teddy Kennedy compare personally? 
A: Teddy is a very confusing figure. I used to follow him around and listen to him speak and sometimes I thought he was very, very poor. Hewouldsortof lose interest and his sentences would wander around. A high school valedictorian was often better. Then, all ofa sudden, the last part of the campaign he really began to be ratherwonder­ful and that speech of his at the convention was unbelievably good. It was everything Teddy can be. He's the most charming of the Kennedys, the best poli­tician, the hardest working, has the best aptitudes, knows the political system wonderfully well, and has an absolute trap of a mind. Yet, there is something that Bobbv had, for all of his awkwardness, his lack of patience, restlessness with those he didn't think much of, disinter­est in political niceties, which made him a more formidable 
[continued on page 5) 



• Trustees 

(Contimu:dfrom paKe 1) 
The committee meeting extended one-and-a-half hours over the allotted time, and Riehle quoted one ofthe trustees as saying "it was the best meeting we've ever had." 
Schneider then consolidated the student requests and pre­sented them to the Executive Board of Trustees at their bi­
. annual meeting the following day. Riehle said that no student representative was allowed at this meeting, which Riehle plans to protest at the next Board meeting in April, but from the 
Trustees  he  spoke  with  he  
learned that "our position  was  
presented.  accurately  and  lis­ 
tened to attentively."  
Traditionally,  students  are  

only allowed input at the Octo­ber and April board meetings, when thev are able to meet with the Stud~nt Affairs Committee only, Riehle said. He expressed a desire to change this policy, and said that to his knowledge this will be the first instance where a student will serve as a repre­sentative to the Executive 
'Board. 
Schneider was allotted 15 minutes to report on the com­mittee meeting, but actually took 25 minutes. Riehle said the extra time given tb this matter at both meetings reflects the Committee's interest in student concerns. He was pleased with theBoard's reception andsaid, "I think we've got some momen­tum going." 
Regarding the campus social space issue, Riehle said that Don Murday, executive coordinator for Student Government, Rich Coppola, Student Union direc­tor, and he plan to meet with Fr. Van Wolvlear sometime Wed­nesday to work out specifics for the new "hangout" on campus. 
The group would then meet with Vice-President for Business Affairs Thomas Mason and Director of Physical Plant Donald Dedrick for further de­finite action. Riehle hoped this would take place by the end of this week. 
The Student Affairs Commit­tee was also "verv interested" in the off-campus situation, Riehle said. Off-Campus Commissioner Mark Kelley offered the Com­mittee no concrete solutions to off-campus problems, but said he just wanted to make the Board aware that problems exist. Ac­cording to Kelley, the actual changes involve the University and the city, not the Board. 
[continued on page 5] 

$7

ND-SMC Dining Halls
Student Legal Services 
BASEMENT NOTRE DAME LAWSCHOOL ______~ 
3rdANNVAL

LEGAL AID AND 


ND-SMC RIGHT TO LJFE

DEFENDER ASSISTANCE 




RoomB-12 283-7795 9-4:30 I 
JO&-A-THON 
1----othertimesbyappointment SUNDAY, NOV. Z 1:3o-5 p.m. ACC INDOOR TRACK




Franciscan: 
ANYONE CAN RUN
A Gospel Lifestyle 
The arrivalofautumn andthe multitudesoffal/en leat:es bringout the campusgroundcrews inforce. (Photo by GreK Ma11rer) 
Archies 

IRELAND PROGRAM 
St. Patrick's College, Maynooth
present 



annual ball 
IMPORTANT MEETING -APPLICATIONS GIVEN OUT 
This Saturday evening, November 1, the annual Beaux Arts Ball will be presented in the 
CARROLL HALL-MADELEVA BUILDING 
building whose lights never dim. 
SAINT MARY'S COLLEGE 
While you sleep, the archi­tecture students thrive under flourescent lights planning the biggest bash ofthe year. Lest you 
Tuesday, October 28, 1980 -6:30 p.m.
think this frivolous, architecture students have been doing this for the past 332 years. 
. TheAcademiedes Beaux-Arts, the first actual school of architec­ture, was created in Paris in 1648. In addition to architecture, the ~ICHAEL STANLEY BANe Academie was devoted to study in painting, sculpture, engraving, and musical composition. It was from this veritable beehive of 
Live at St. Mary's
artistic activity that the idea ofan 

Thurs. Oct. 30th 8:00 p.m.
annual ball was conceived. Stage sets, costumes, music, and masks 
O'Laughlin Aud 
all combined to create an even­ing of merriment for all. 
The tradition continues here at Notre Dame. The stage set: the Archie building; the music: 
ON SALE NOW 
the Rockfellers, out of Chicago. 
SMC Ticket Office Reserved Seating 
& 






for Today 
_, 
.,.,. --... _ ..,.._~.

_,_,_ 1nteJLu.ted in 6oUowhtg _,_ .the. v.i6i,on and .Unu.tyle. o6
_,_

_,_ St. Franais of Assisi 
_."4,,.

_,_ a6 a Blw.thelt.. oJt a PJU.u.t? 
~=·= 
_,_ 

~, 411 contact: FRANCISCAN VOCATIONS 
.....,~ 

Department C. 
~,~­

-,-3320 St. ~aschal Dr.
:·:..-: 

Oak Brook, ll 60521

:..:·: 
... 
~~ 

and/or SPONSOR A RUNNER 
-__,~:. 
·~·=,., _ 
--,.
-
-,,_ ­-~~ 
-
-

Ji'OR INFO, CALL:
---_,_,., _ 
TIM 11SZ
.. ,.._. 
or 
=_.,=~ =~~~ 

BILL 81Z7 

:_.,:·: 
~.,., ... 
• 


--------------~-----­
c ---· -------~ ·-·-.. --~ ~ ~~~ •• ·~-----------•• ----_ _._ __________ 
The Observer Tuesday, October 28, 1980 -page 4 
At St. Mary's 

Board introduces new members 

by Kerry O'Rourke 
The Board ofRegents for Saint Mary's held its first meeting for the 1980-81 academic year on October 17-18. The Board of Regents is the governing body for the College and is responsible for school policy, direction and finances. 
Six new Board members were introduced at the meeting by Sr. 
M. Margaret Michael King, C.S.C., Chairman of the Board. 
The first, Sr. Theodora Abreu, director of Gerontology at the University of Portland, received her bachelor's degree from Saint Mary's ofthe Wasatch, Salt Lake City, and her masters from Boston University. She serves as chairman of the reseach com­mittee of the Northwest Geron­tology Center in Portland and is a member ofits boardofdirectors. 
Next, Sr. Judith Anne Beattie, is director of Volunteer Services at the University ofNotre Dame. She is also on the advisory boards of the Clinical Pastoral Educa­tion Program of Oaklawn Cen­ter, Elkhart, Ind., and the Voluntary Action Center, South Bend. She received a bachelor of science in nursing from Loyola University in Chicago and holds a masters in theology from ND. 

Another new member, Mrs. P. Jordan Hamel, a 1930 graduate of Saint Mary's and a resident of Chicago, is chairman of the Women's Chicago Symphony Association Board and of the Children's Home and Aid Soci­etv of Illinois:-She was also 
re.cen named the national 


This Wednesday and Every Wednesday ... 
ND/SMC SPECIAL 
Pitcher of Beer $2.00 
Pitcher of Pop $.75 
PIZZA KING NORTH 
U.S. 31 North Roseland Across From Big "C" Lumber 

CarryOut Dial 272-6017 
OPEN 
MON. -THURS. FRI. & SAT. SUN. 

Us For Your Pizza Partie 

• 

EVERY DAY 
11:00-12:00 11:00-1:00 4:30-11:00 
chairman of the Saint Mary's College Madeleva Society. 
The fourth, 'Sr. Madonna Murphy, is academic vice-presi­dent and associate provost at Boston University. She served as director of the Saint Mary's Rome Program from 1971-74. Prior to that she was president of Cardinal Cushing College, Brookline, Mass. A graduate of Albertus Magnus College, Sr. Murphy received her masters and doctorate from Yale University. 
Another, Mr. William G. 
Ryan,  a  resident  of  Willow­ 
brook,  Ill.,  is.  president  and  
owner  of  Town  &  Country  

Builders, Hinsdale, Ill. He was director ofthe Residential Horne and Builders Association from 1970-74. Mr. Ryan attended St. Benedict's College, the Univer­sity oflllinois and Northwestern University. · 
The sixth new member, Miss Patricia Burke, a senior at Saint Mary's, is the student representa­tive to the Board. She is majoring in communication and theatre, and was the College's 1980 reci­pient of the Saint Catherine's Medal awarded by Kappa Gamma Pi. Miss Burke is the daughter ofMr. and Mrs. John R. Burke of Louh;ville, Ky. 
The student representative is elected through the same pro­cess as are the other members of the Board. She does not serve as a voice for the student body, but instead offers a student's opinion on matters pertaining to the Board. 
Other points of business on the agenda included resolutions, presented by Sr. M. Bertrand Sullivan, pertaining to the finan­cing and construction of the library. These resolutions had been approved by the Admin­is~rative ~embers of the Corpor­attOn earher in the year and were endorsed by the Board. The library is being financed by the sale of tax-free bonds. A total of $6.7 million will be needed to subsidize the library, and $3.3 million has been raised so far. 
Resolutions of appreciation were also approved for faculty members, Rita Cassidy, Grace Sullivan McGuire and Sylvia Dworski, who retired in May, and also for the Sisters of the Holy Cross who returned $190,083 to the College in the year 1979-80. 
The audit report for 1979-80 was accepted, and percentage in­creases in fees and compensa­tion, as a basis for preparing the 1981-82 budget, were approved. A final review of the changes and compensation adjustments will be presented to the Board at its next meeting in mid-February. 
The Board also approved the newly revised manual ofpolicies and procedures for hourly em­ployees, as well as the reports of the Committee on Developme11t and Student Life._ 
Also at the meeting, the Committee on Education as­
' 
sisted by Dr. William Hickey and Dr. Donald Horning, presented an explanation of the process and procedure for granting ten­ure at Saint Mary's. 
In an executive session, Sr. Margaret Michael, chairman of the Committee to Evaluate the President, presented the final report, ~hich was positive, to the committee. 
The Board also attended the ground breaking ceremony for the library. Due to rainy weather the ceremony was held in Stapleton Lou~ge. 

• • • Crime wave 
(Continued from page 1) 

mean an end to the campus crime which has occurred over the past two months. "I think they've been here before. They knew their way around these dorms." 
Fr. Conyers said the quickness and efficiency of Notre Dame, Security was responsible for the apprehension of the suspects. "I think they didan excellent job. They were on the scene immediately." 
Two unrelated off-campus crimes also occurred during the week. Gary Ainge of 707 W. Colfax Street reported that his car was vandalized at the South Shore station while he was in Chicago on October 22. He returned home only to find that his house had been burglarized as'. well. 
"It was a very bad day on all accounts," he remarked. Losses ofthe day included a stereo amp, speaker, tel~vision, and battery from his car. 
Also, a St. Louis Street resident reported aburglary on Oct. 25. The student said that thieves entered through a window and stole two sportcoats and other miscellaneous items. 
When asked for a comment on the recent crime wave at the University, the police spokesman said, "I certainly hope you don't have any breaks scheduled for the near future." University officials may very well second that feeling. 



• 
A Roosevelt University Lawyer's Lawyer's Assistant. Program Assistant represents the mark of quality RCXJSEVELT UNIVE.RSITY and aceeptance in today's legal 430 South Michigan Avenue community. Chicago. Illinois 60605 •). 

• 
If you are a college graduate and (312) 341·3882 ... qualify. why not give yourself an Pleast1 send me information on advantage hy attending Roosevelt Roost1velt's Paralegal Program. 


University's Lawyer·s Assistant Profljramwhich is fully accredited hy the name________ 
American Bar Association. :phone------­
• Since the Fall of 1974. lti50 graduates I dd 
representing over 250 colleges and :a ress_______ universities have chosen Roosevelt's IcilY-------­Lawyer's Assistant Pro!(ram for their 'stale___zip career trainingc P---­
• Specialize in: Corporations-Estates, 
Roosevelt University
Trusts and Wills-Utigation-Real 
admits students on the

Estate and Mortga!(es-Employee Benefit 
basis of individual merit 
Plans • -or· het:ome a C~neralist• 
and without regard to race,
• Over 350 law firms, hanks, 
creed, color, sex or physi­

corporations and government agencies 
cal handicap. 

throughout the llnitP.d States have hired RoosevP.It graduates. 13 .,..,..,,..'111'"'11"""' ••lly 

.. 

The Observer Tuesday, October 28, 1980-1page ~ 
Hear Johnny's bloopers 
Backyard dishes offer more 


While most Americans saw 
. Trustees 

only fragments of the Moscow 
Olympics on television, Kulaga 
The formation of student in­
(Continuedfrom page 3)

and Barlow watched for hours. 
spection teams for off-campusWith a 12-foot-wide, dish­
However, the Committee en­living quarters was another ma­shaped antenna in their back­
couraged Kelley to research off­jor proposal. Both Riehle' and yard, Kulaga, 21, and Barlow, 32, 
campus communities at other Kelley called for increased in­can hone in on a constantshower 
universities and report at the spection so that only student­of microwaves beamed to earth meeting in April. Riehle said that approved housing would com­by eight video-producing satel­research will begin immediately. prise the off-campus housing list. 
lites parked over the equator. Picfltred is a small example ofthe massive fire damage done to St. Edlt'ard'.r
The two major proposals con­As far as dormitory matchingSome of the satellite-carried sidered are the possibility of the funds is concerned, there is no Hall. (Photo by Greg Mtmrer) 
· programming is ready for public 
University buying land, houses, specific information regardingviewing, but some is unedited, 
and creating a student housing what action will be taken at this such as taped shows and news 
district, along with building ad­time. 
........ VOLUNTEERS NEEDED
film being sent from all over the 
ditional apartments or town­Overall, Kelley stated that the world to New York network 
houses. Board "really listened and wants 
~ •RADIOLOGY •NURSING
headquarters. 
Kelley said he is also pushing to make the place better." to expand the facilities of the Riehle added that "they un­
~~?] ForFurther~:~mation
Off-Campus Housing Office, as derstood our frustrations," and 
~I~ Con~ct
well as student awareness that the Board "sees a need for acting 
• • • Q&A 
Director of Public Relations
such an office exists. At present, and acting now." all information in the office He continued to say that 
south bend osteopathic
needs to be updated, Kelley said, changes do not take place im­
(Continuedfrom page 3) 
and although he feels that Bro. mediately at this university, and therefore "we must be persistent 
hospital
political figure. I don't know how Ed Luther is doing a job as to explain it. ' director, he would like to see this with long-term proposals." As a 
2515 E. JEFFERSON BLVD SOUTH BEND IN. 46615 
final comment, Riehle said
Q: You have played for the Detroit job become a full-time position. 
(219) 288·8311 
Luther is also the rector of "persi..'itence is one of Don
lions, performed the trapeze in a 
Murday's virtues." 
circus, and boxedseveralchampions. Is Morrissey Hall. 



This coupon is redeemable for one (1) cassette copy of your original cassette for only 99~.
1---------------------------------· 
Any additional copies of your original cassette are at the prices below. Simply bring your
·------------· I 1I
I need printing I 1 original cassette and this coupon with you. The copy cassette and the copying service are included in one price.
I . h ry? I I I
1 1na ur . 1
1 I
Your Original Regular Price High-Speed 1100-11xl7 postersl Cassette Length Par Copy Copying Time I 
30 minute $2.19 1 minute 
1

I only$10.00 I I I 60 minute $2.89 2 minutes I 
90 minute $3.79 3 minutes
I I I 
120minute • $4.79 4minutes
I .iJ.· 203 N. Mainl I 1 
le • I
1 •., South Bend 1I ~~."'::::::,::,~-Available Exclusively at: I 
plea$e circle the copy cassette size and initial it at the time ofI 289-6977 1 purchase. Then anytime after the dote of this promotion, send Notre Dame Bookstore I
I I
us your coupons for redemption. We will replace each coupon with a fresh cassette and invoice you ot seventy cents ($.70) The Hammes 
I thewizof the I I 283·6316 Ieach regardless of cassette size. Send to: 1401·8 West River 

by Deborah Mesce Associated Press Wrt!er 

PUTNAM, Conn. -When Johnny Carson gets bleeped on the "Tonight Show" by the NBC censor, Mark Kulaga and Portus Barlow III don't have to read lips to know what he said. 
'Part of the glamour of this is to watch things you are not supposed to see," Barlow said. 
Kulaga and Barlow own a com­pany called Black and White En­terprises Ltd., among about a dozen companies in the United States that have jumped into the "earth station" market. 
Home earth stations-antenna, receiver and amplifier-are scaled down versions of the re­ceiving systems cable TV com­panies use. But while cable com­panies primarily use just one satellite and provide an average of a dozen channels, home earth stations can catch signals from any of the satellites, which serve more than 50 channels. 
The technology involved is not new. What is new is the price­it's now within reach of the con­sumer. 
there anything you haven't done that you um"ld really like to? 
A: I'd like to sing with a rock group, maybe KISS. I've also always wanted to sing in the opera, which of course, went on strike recently. 
Q: Some skeptics sayyou were some­what crazy to do all the partiCipatory reportingyou have done. What reply do you make to these skeptics? 
A: I try to do these things as a reporting exercise that has been done by Paul Gallagher and several others... they've quit, I must say, and I seem to be still doing them. There'sa public that rather expects them to be done and wants to read what these hockey teams are like and what the tennis tour is like. I don't know that it's the best way of doing it, obviously there are many ways of skinning a cat, but it gives me pleasue. Crazy? I sup­pose a little, but notas crazy as ifl didn't write books about it, then I really would be crazy. 
Q: Any predictions on the Notre Dame football season? 
A: 0 h, how could I vote against Notre Dame? I just wish I was going to your sixth quarterback, that'd be nice. 
Inlessthan2minutes. 
Make a Copy of your Favorite 
Cassette For Only 
*Price includes the copy cassette and the Copying Service! Guaranteed perfect monaural copies, every time. 

What can you copy? 
The potential uses for cassette copies are endless. Here are just a few of the most common applications: lectures, seminars, language labs, meetings, college classes, sermons, sales messages, weddings, interviews, talking letters, family events, relaxations, exercises, word-processing data, and computer programs. 
Rood North, Mpls., MN 55411 ThisCouponhpores 11/15/80 -J-.Ia... ...
I..P-!~.!!!'.9-~~--1 I
-------· 
----~-------------------­
---·-----------_,.._ ______ or--___... "': ··-----· -·· ----·-­
. ----------------------··--~----.:.---------·--------.. 
.. 
ttort 
s 

Tuesda , October 28, 1980 -nage 6 
P.O. Box Q
Anderson. for 

touring in 1966, Paul McCart­prophetic work in which he
Reader 
ney composed and performed tells of the necessity of faith in the filmscore to a movie enti­the will of God, and that, ''Thequestions Hiler's tled "A Family Way". The last word is not ... death, but
President 
Harrison effort was not re­life ... not 'Sorry 'bout that,' but tax plans leased until after the formation 'Welcome home.' '' But, o of Apple Corps. in 1967-8. course, Bill always did have 
In an election year where there is no ideal candidate, The Oh.rert,er endorses Illinois Congressman John-Anderson for President. Throughout the marathon contest, which began for some candidates two years ago, Anderson has consistently presented the most imaginative and, at the same time responsi­ble, ideas to solve this nation's diverse and complex problems. 
Unlike· incumbent President Jimmy Carter, Anderson has utmpaigned openly and at length. Unlike Republican nominee Konald Reagan, Anderson has formulated his economic and social policies so that they respect the rights of all social and economic classes. And unlike either of the other two major candidates, Anderson has successfully welded the best of liberalism and moderation into an effective and fresh approach to the American Presidency. 
On economic matters, Anderson has presented a sensible program ofa voiding a tax cut without a simultaneous reduction in government spending. This position is in marked contrast to Reagan's plan to grant a large tax cut while at the same time increasing the defense budget. This policy is in even greater contrast to Carter's constant shifting from a "tax cut" position to a "no tax cut" position as the political winds dictate. 
Anderson's 50-5o energy tax rebate plan is by no means perfect, but i.s the energy plan which is the fairest to all Americans. This plank in Anderson's platform would reduce gasoline consumption and encourage conservation. Anderson's provision to extend a fifty percent rebate from the ·new tax in the form of Social Security benefits, would both aid that segment ofthe population which needs the money most, as well as help bolster the struggling Social Security System. This approach is much preferred to candidate Reagan's policy of leaving America's oil companies to dictate this nation's energy future. 
The build-up ofconventional forces and the improvement of our volunteer army highlight Anderson's defense policy. In these times of political tension abroad, it is easy to propose a reactionary policy ofsending American troops to obscure spots around the globe. It is also easy to propose the implementation of new and expensive arms systems. Candidate Reagan has espoused both of these alternatives, and both seem to lead America to a road this nation has gone down before. Reagan's plan to send American troops around the world at seemingly the slightest whim could be the first step towards embroiling America in another undeclared war. His plan to build costly weapons systems contradicts his avowed opposition to icreased government spending and would succeed only in involving this countrv in a"cold war" situation. President Carter has had his chance. at forming America's policy and providing for its defense. In The Ob.rerver's opinion he has bungled that chance. Carter has successfully diminished our credibility abroad, and persisted in taking an inconsistent course in affairs abroad so that neither our allies nor our adversaries know where we stand. He does not deserve a second chance. 
Besides these reasonable positions on America's most press­ing problems, Anderson is more open-minded when compared with the other two candidates on social issues. Anderson is a strong proponent of the Equal Rights Amendment. He is opposed to a C-onstitutional amendment on abortion, but favors giving the woman involved the option to make her own decision. He is also a supporter of gun control. 
\, 
) 
Finally. Tbe Q_b.rerver backsJohn Anderson for the Presidency :)ecause of his realistic but optimistic approach to government. ~ ·arter is nothing ifnot a realist, but his blunders these past four 'ears have bred an air of defeatism and a lack ofconfidence in this country which threatens its future. Reagan presents an :dt~alistic but ultimately misguided approach to solving this :1,1tion's problems. His solutions are "quick fix" answers to problt::ms which require time-consuming and innovative solu­tions. His policies are more a nostalgic longing for the America of the Fifties than a coherent blue-print for an America with tangible problems in the Eighties. Anderson's blend of liberal idealism and moderate conservatism is the best mix to deal with those problems. 
==Ihe_-_ 


Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 465.56 

Dear Editor, 
In a recent interview in The Observer congressional candi­date John Hiler cited the experience of Puerto Rico as evtdence proving that tax cuts along the lines advocated by the Kemp-Roth Bill will lead to increased tax revenues from economic growth stimulated by those tax cuts. In reviewing the candidate's defense-of the Kemp-Roth plan, however, one finds that the evidence pre­sented is unconvincing and the use of it deceptive. 
In his reference to the exper­ience of Puerto Rico Mr. Hiler fails to say that while personal income taxes have been re­duced, increased taxes on for­
. . . . 
etgn co9_)oranons operanng m Puerto Rtco have directly offset those tax cuts. This combined with increases in indirect tax revenues show anyone who cares to look at the facts that the Kemp-Roth plan has not been vindicated. 
Later in his argument Mr. Hiler states that 100,000 tax­payers have been added to the tax rolls in Puerto Rico, the implication being that because of tax policy the number of jobs in the economy has increased by 100,000. Yet in the period in question employment m Puerto Rico increased by 25,000. That and the fact that total employ­ment in the economy is only 825,000 makes one wonder what the candidate is up to. 
To sum up, the defense of the Kemp-Roth Bill wasn't much of a defense at all and involved a clear misuse of the facts. One wonders what other such abuses fill the candidate's speeches, literature, and com­mercials. I can only say that for myself I see this candidate as not only a disciple of "voodoo economics'' but of ''voodoo statistics" as well. 
joseph Phillip 

Neely nailed on trivia error 
Dear Editor, 
I would like to point out a mistake in reference to Mr. Neely's Oct. 9, Rock Trivia quiz. Mr. Neely states that "Wonderwall Music" by George Harrison is the first solo Beatles album, being the soundtrack to a movie of the same name. Unfortunately, this is incorrect. The first Beatles solo effort was actually recorded by Paul McCartney at least one year prior to Harri­son. After the Beatles finished I suggest that Mr. Neely recheck his sources or he shall 
never  receive  a  "correct"  
entry.  
Dave Sundry  

Father Toohey not soon forgotten 
Dear Editor, 
Recently, the Notre Dame/ Saint Mary's community said good-bye to one of its most devoted and dynamic priests, Fr. Bill Toohey. As I sat in Sacred Heart Church waiting for the funeral to begin, I was struck by the fact that the over 3000 people wh() crowded into the church were only a fraction of the lives that Bill had touched. During his lifetime, Bill's ministry reached thou­sands of people, from his closest friends in Campus Min­istry to the students who once heard him lecture in class, or attended one or two of his masses. All felt that they knew him in some way, for few who heard him preach ever came away unaffected. It is fitting that Bill would leave us with a source of comfort and strength in his last homily, an almost 
Doonesbury 
HI! M3f.C{)M& 70 711&MYSTf!RiaJSIIJJilJI) (F ~/?.EA6AN'S 8RA/N.' li()M& Of N/fARJ.Y308/I.J){JIN~OR 
~ ¥MAR8I.ES,"As 7HefAli?£KN01AN 
t~e right words for the occa­ston. 
In the last couple of weeks, I've been wondering why it was so difficult for me to believe that he was really dead. Bill was just not the kind of person who I thought could ever die; it seemed as if he would always be a part of Notre Dame. He lives on in every one of the thousands o people whose lives he touched, and his ministry will continue on long after all our wounds of griefhave healed. Although his physical presence will no long­er be among us, we need only to look within ourselves and the people around us to see the little part of himself that Bill instilled within us all. 
We will, of course, miss him a great deal, for he was loved by many, although I don't think he knew how very many. Yet, even in our sorrow, we must try to forget his death, and concentrate instead on his life, a life filled with under­standing, compassion, and an "urgency to preach the Gospel," as Father McNally so beautifully stated in his eulogy. 
If we remember his life and the lessons he taught us, then Bill Toohey will live among us, forever. For, as he once stated, "Death, hate and despair will nor have the last word.'' 
Mary E. France// 

by Garry Trudeau 

PIHAT/IJON~ IWA!Ttl5!711t f&NIX­~A~5H~~g~~lr 
OfIMA650f AN 117tL/..IC AMf.RJcA, IAJITH 5~ CtJI<CS, EJl/ll.M4 SH4~ SIGN'S, ANIJ HAR/J-MJf(K/NriWH!$WPte! 
Managing Editor . ............ Mark Rust Features Editor . .......... Molly Woulfe 
The Observer is an independent newspaper published by the studems of the 
Editorials Editor ......... Mike Onufrak photo Editor'! ............ .John Macor
University of ~<?tre Dame du ~.c and_ Saint ~ary·~ C<?llese. It does not necessarily 
Senior Copy Editor . ........ Lynne Daley Business Manager ......... Greg Hedges
reflect the pohcres of th~ a~mmrstrauon .of erthe~ m~muuon. The news is reported as ~cc.urately and _as C?bJecuvely as possrble: Ed1t~n~ls represent the opinion of a Executive News Editor .... Tom Jackman Controller.................. ..Jim Rudd 
ma,onty of the Edrtonal Board. Commentanes, op1n1ons, and letters are the views News Editor .............. Pam Degnan Advertising Manager .. ....•.•• Mark Ellis of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community, and SMC Executive Editor .... Margie Brassil Circulation Manager....... Beth Hackett the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged. SMC News Editor .. ....... Mary Leavitt Production Manager ...•• •John McGrath 
' 4 \ \_ \ '·

. \ ' . 
The purpose is"to so alter American society that it could be comfortably merged with that ofthe Soviet Union.". 
· · . · H. Rowan Gather. Jr.• Former President of Ford Foundation 
-. ---. -. ---·----------.. -----~---" --... ... . -------... ---. ----­
Part of The C.F.R. Propaganda Machine Itis DOt meant to imply thatthe One-W oriel viewsof the CFR: Present or past member of the T: Present or past member of 
Is Thll Whr We Nerer H.,rd of The C.F.R.? Oo We R.c:elre Only 

CFR& TC are nec:essarily shared by all members 
1. IITIME Inc./TIME MAGAZINE I CBS 
HENRY KISSINGER R. S. McNAMARA
l J 
Hedley DonovAn William Burden CFR
CFRT 

CFR T CFR
Alexander Heard Roswell Gilpatric CFR
CFR 
James linen James Houghton
CFR CFR 
Sol linowitz William Paley
CFR T CFR 
w.tctllhe
Marshall Loeb Henry Schacht CFR
CFR 

Plorwde ol CFR-T
Rawleigh Warner CFA Frank Stanton CFR Thomas Watson 
CFR I 

I 
c-hNatlon 
NBC Meet the Piau NEW YORK TIMES 
O..Stlona& 
AI-.
I I 

T. Bradshaw CFR McNfiH.Lehrer 
Hardin\Bancroft H. Schlosser
CFR CFR R.port
Amor~ radford 
CFR I I
Orvil . Dryloos CFR 
Max Frankel ABC
CFARichard Gelb CFR
J. l Greentoeld CFA J. T. Conner CFRDavid Halberstram CFR G. Jenkins CFRWalter Lippmann CFR A Macioce ' CFRL. E. Markel 

CFA Ask your local 
H. l. Mlllhews 

CFA tar. shew host
MEDIA MISC.
John Oakes 

CFR to sclledult 1
REPORTERSAdolph Ochs 
I I

CFR progr1m on the Jemes Reston CFA C.F.R. and
Elie Abel CFR
A M. Rosenthal 
CFA Tritatoral
Davod Bronkley CFR
Jack Rosenthal CFA Commlulen
William Buckley CFRHerrison Salosbury CFR John Chancellor CFRWolioam Scranton CFA Marquis Childs CFRA. Hays Sulzberger CFA C. CollingswoOd CFRA. Ochs Sulzberger CFA Charliane Gault CFR
C L. Sulzberger 
CFA A. C Hottetet CFR
Seymour Topping 
CFA Norman Isaacs CFR Marvon Kalb 
CFRINEWSWEEK/WASH. POST I Jim Lehrer CFR 189 C.F.R. 

___..._..... ........ 
~­
lrvinn I -.W"in,:a l"rD 
G. F. Wilt 
CFA 
SENATE (Past & present members) • Daniel Moynlhen (N V.) CFR 
• Edmund Muakle (Maone) CFR 
I 
H-ard a.ker (Tenn. I CFR I Claiborne Pell (A. 1.) CFR llfcll laytl (lnd t CFR Abrehem Rlblcolf (Conn. I CFA lloyd lantHn (TeM.) CFR William Roth (Del.) CFA T WHIIem Brock (Tenn.! CFR I Peul Sarbane1 (Md.l CFR I 
I 
Edwerd lrooloe (Mass.) CFR Adlai Slevanaon (Ill.) CFA Clifford CaH (N J ) CFA Stu•rt Symington (Mo. I CFR Frallk Church (Idaho! CFR Robert Tell. Jr. (Ohio) T Dick Clerk (Iowa! CFA HOUSE 
I
Wllllem S. Cohen (Maine) T e Alen Cre,.ton (Calli.) T John Anderson (Ill.) CFR T Jolin Cooper (Ken ) CFR : Ln Aapln (Wise ) CFA Johll Culwer (Iowa) CFR T J. I. Blngllem (N Y.) CFA John Danforth (Mo.) T John lraclemll (Ind.) CFA T
I
John Qlenn (Ohio)· T Berber Coneble, Jr.(N Y.) T Hubert Hulllptny (Minn. I CFA WHiiem A. Collet' ' (Conn. I CFA 
• Jacall Jnlle (N. Y.. CFR Dante Feecell (Fla.) CFA Gala McOel (Wyo.) CFA Thomae Foley (Wash t T 
I 
0.... ~ (S. 0.) CFA Doneld Freaer CFA T Cllarfae Maltlle1 (Md ) CFR • Stephen Solerz (N V ) CFR 
...._ lnlcl,Chrmn., Republicen National Committee CFR T 
Tllelr mall rw11 10% ...IMt ghtng away -cenelln Panema I Why cllcl they ...,. n away? Waa It llecauaa they -the International hanllen, not the people wtlo elected ltlem to office? 
e Pa,._ Can8f OIYeaway Teem 

ADVISOR WORLD BANK 
294 U.S. Government Officials Belong To The CFR Clique! 
QUESTION: WHO DO THEY SERVE? QUESTION 
Which pro-American governments vital to our national security have !ellen since the CFR gained control of our government? 
I BRZEZINSKI 
CFR T
I I 
"SECURITY" Advisor 
... 
SCHLESINGER

BLUMENTHAL 

Many Military C.F.R. Members Are Patrlotlc ... but, 

Council on Foreign Relations. the Trlhiteral Commission 
DAVID ROCKEFELLER 
CHAIRMAN 

COUNCIL ON FOREIGN RELATIONS 
(A private organization formed In 1921) 
NORTH AMERICAN CHAIRMAN 
The TRILATERAL <f.OMMISSION 
(A private organization ormed In 1973) 
James Earl (Jimmy) Carter (Charter member, Trilateral Commission) 
Selected in 1973 by 

The TRILATERAL COMMISSION & CFR 
to be THEIR PRESIDENT! 
Groomed and Trained by BRZEZINSKI! 
most diabolical anti-God tyranny In human history. 
'63-'69 Lemnitzer LG A. Goodpaster (Supl
CFR'69-'74 Goodpaster CFR Military Academy)

NATIONAL "SECURITY" COUNCIL 

CFR
I I '74·79 Haog ~FR MG ?. Gorman (Germany! 
Sec.cfSTATE 

DOUGLAS CO TLE
HARRIS 
E. P. A 

W Drayton CFR
CFR CFR 

Observe that whe~ one CFR IS moved I HfW out of a ooso11on of oower. another 
CFR T 
A. M. Solomon CFR T 
DUNCAN

C. F. Bergsten CFR T 
A. Nachmanolf CFR 
W. J. McDonald CFR 
T

A C. Altman CFR they'rw controiiH by clvlll•n C.F.R. memb8ra who •pp•rwntly would ebc . . lltv and estebllsh their NEW WORLD ORDE 
I I I 1 
ADDITIONAL MILITARYWEST POINT 
R. A. DUNGANW. B. DALE 

I I
SUPERINTENDENTS SINCE tll60 
Past & Prescmt 
(Partial listing) 

CFR CFR 
INTERNATIONAL INTER-AMERICAN '60-'63 Westmoreland CFR A. J. Woolsey. Under·MONETARY FUND DEVELOPMENT BANK '63·'66 Lampert CFR secretary of Navy
'66·'68 Bennell CFR
CFR 
70-74 Knowlton BG T. Ayers (Korea! 
CFR CFR 74-77 Berry CFR LG S. Berry (US.I'.REUAI 

This chart is unchangeable except 77­for a new President and Cabinet. 
ANSWER 


BUREAU OF PUBLIC AFFAIRS
OTHERS Hodding Carter, BUREAU HEAD
r UNION lOSSES ---------.., r PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES~ CFA
M. D. Shulman iSovlel Allaorsl 
CFR
I.W.Mel Lane Klrklancl
CFAT CFA T 

H. G. Bernes, Jr. (Personnel 
o-va Bush CFR T 
lot Ct\allln M. J. Wercl
CFR T CFR T 

WORKING.FOR THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA? 
(Bu!lh. CFR director. resigned) 
Boards & Commossoonsl
Q,.n WIHI 
CFR
Murl'y "· Finley CFA CFR T 
M. Nlmetz (legal) 

CFA In 1939 the Council on Foreign Relations was invited to take control oltbe U. S.
VloWQeiHum L-ard Woodcoct 

Howard Iaker CFA
CFR CFAT 
M. B. Feldmen (legal! 

CFR Stele Department. That control has never b8en broken!
John Anderson CFA T 
S. M. Sch-b8i (legal) 
CFRJimmy Cartel' T 

J. J. Gilligan
flaM I ................must...,., whafs going on whan the boeHS 

CFA The State Department Wines, dines, and provides linanci•l lid to the enemiea 
R. D. Hormat1

Teet Kennecty (Member of the
JcM raMI wMI tilelitetiM -*1-.trow Amertca'l aoweretgnty alld force 
CFA ollreHom everywhere. They relul8 vius to our pro-American friends end drive

D. E. M•rk

Boston affiliate of the CFR.i 
CFA
Mr 10 ""*f* wltfl" ........ OOUftlrtn Ill I -WCiflcl gowMirllet'lt. 

them into communist hends by calling ollllnenclal aid and erms shipments at
E. A. Pletlg $_ F. Cohen critical times.
~,_______ CFR 
CFA
..., ..e ..... •-'-tlcM ot .... 
J. F. L-•rcl 

CFA They use the PHONY •HUMAN RIGHTS" Issue lg8inst our lrienda!
_.,.,....,_.eM.,..,....-"' 
Paul Wemke SALT

MANY PEOPLE QUIT VOTINQI CFAT 
R. E. Earl 2nd. SALT 

CFR Do "SALT TREATIES" &"HOSTAGE SITUATIONS" Divert
Tile -the1 woted, the ­
A. N. Cooper, Undersecretary.
SOCIAUSM, FASCISM, DICTATORSHII'7 

........pd the -wtth the Economoc Affaors CFR T Our Minds While "STATE" Helps Russia Enslave The Wortd?l 
etralfteeMro~. 
. 1'1EA8ENOll£ ~ 
China, Laos, Korea, Vietnam, Eailt Germeny, Czechoslovakia, Hungary, 
COL A. Dewey (Germany! 
'52·'53 Ridgeway CFR CFR
CFR

Romania, Poland, Yugoslavia, Bulgaria, Albania, Ethiopia, Angola, 
CAPT H. Fiske (Brooklyn! 
'53-'56 Gruenther CFA
CFR

Iraq, Afghanistan, Pakisten, Nicaregua, Cuba, lran...end more... to the 
'56·'63 Norstad LG A Gard (Defense U.l 
CFR CFR 

H. BROWN TURNER 
CFR T CFR
I I I I 
Sec. of DEFENSE C.IA 
D. 0. E. lereSIS..." HARRY SHULTZ LETTER. Xebex. Box 134, Princeton, N.J. 08540
TREASURY 
(Dept. of NO Energy) 

"The standard of Iiring of the average Ameflc•n has to dec fine." Volcker. 
T. l. Farmer. Intelligence CFR D. Aaron, Nail. Security CFR F. Press. Director. Science & Technology CFA A. McDonald, Trade CFR Lloyd Cutler CFR T _, C.F.A. mernt.s-invohed In educetlonel lnetttutlorts. 552 erw bullne11 aJtecutlves.  Edmund Muekle, Secretary W. M. Christopher, Deputy Sec. AMBASSADORS Elliot Richardson Gerald Smith Alfrsd Atherton, Jr. Henry Owen Herb8rt Salzman E. Bunker, CANAL PAYAWAY S. Llnowitz, CANAL PAY AWAY Andrew Young (U.N.I D. F. McHenry (U N.l  CFR CFR T CFR T CFR CFR CFR T CFR CFR CFR T CFR T CFR  BUREAU OF INTER-AMERICAN AFFAIRS (Rememb8r Nlceragua?) Viron P. Vasky, BUREAU HEAD CFR Luigi Einaudi. Poiocy Plann1ng CFA BUREAU OF AFRICAN AFFAIRS (Rememb8r Rhodesia, South Afrlce?) Richard M. Moose. BUREAU HEAD CFR Goler T Butcher. Asst Adm CFR BUREAU OF NEAR EASTERN & SOUTH ASIAN AFFAIRS (R-mb8r lren?) Harold H. Saunders, BUREAU HEAD CFR BUREAU OF EAST ASIAN & PACIFIC AFFAIRS (Rememb8r Telwen'?) Richard Holbrooke. BUREAU HEAD CFR T  
J. F. Leonerd (UN)  CFR  BUREAU OF INTERNATIONAL ORGANIZATION AFFAIRS  
190 .......,.,..  POLICY PLANNING STAFF  C. William Maynes. BUREAU HEAD  CFR  
tn erw Involved In Non·Protlt  W. Anthony lake. DIRECTOR Paul H. Krsiaberg Kerin Llssakers  CFR CFR CFR  UNDERSECRETARY FOR POLITICAL AFFAIRS/CHAIRMAN, BOARD OF FOREIGN SERVICE D•vid D. Newsome  eFR  
orgenlzatlona wlltcll appear to be Immune from conoreaaton•l lnweallgetton.  Leslie H. Gelb Jerome H. Kehan Dewid C. Gompert Priscilla A. Clapp  CFR CFA CFR CFR  OCEANS. INTERNATIONAL ENVIRONMENTAL & SCIENTIFIC AFFAIRS Thomas R. Pickering, BUREAU HEAD CFR William Sullivan. Dorector CFR  


'57-'59 McElroy CFR

Evwy C.IA.. dinlc:tor -a CFR 
CFR 
'59'61 Gates COL M McPeak (Spain) 

member! Is It I Rockefeller~ 
CFR CFR 


'49-'52 Eisenhower 
.. 
McHENRY 
CFR 
CFR
Goodpaster CFR MG A. Bowman (OSD-ISAI 
CFR 
COL Z. Bradford (Fl. Polk) 
CFR ALLIED 
BG F. Brown (Ft. Knoxt 
CFR SUPREME 
MAJ W. Clark (Germany) 
CFR COMMANDERS 
COL p_ Dawkins (Fl. Ord) 
CFR CAPT J. Dewenter (Hong Kong! 
CFR 
SECRETARY OF DEFENSE 
CFR COLW Hauser 
CFR COL B. Hosmer (Holman AFBI 
CFR COLT Juhan (NATO! 
CFR CAPT A Kimmitl 
CFR LG G Loving (Japan) 
MISC. 

"Governmerrt is causirrg inflation, but 11orerrrment won't admit it... " Howard Ruff RADM C Tesh CFR
"TtMi surwst wey to Oftfthrow •n Na;~ Strategoesl CFR

ADMINISTRATION 
BG W. Usher
elllslln; IOCiel order II to ~h CFR BG J Thompson (Security 
Arrroy LG A Gard

~----~~~--------------DEPARTMENT OF STATE------------------------~ the currency." lennln CFR 
'61-'68 M.cNamara COL D. Mead (Prot. 
CFR'69-'73 Laird CFR Military Academy) CFA'73 Rochardson CFR T CAPT R Miale (Naval '7:3·'75 Schles1n9er CFR recruilong) CFR'75-'77 Rumslei 
CFR 
COL L. Olvey (Prof '77· Brown 
CFR T 
Military Academy 
CFR 8G J. Plautz (Cairo! 
CFRTHE INFLATION MACHINE 
MILITARY FELLOWS 
COL L. Pfeiffer (Internal 

Inflation Is not caused by buslnaosmen Security!
THROUGH THE YEARS 
CFR 

or working men. It Is ceused by in· MG J Puslay (Keesler AFBI CFR 
creasing the money supply. Check dictionary definition. 
P.VOLCKER 
CFR T 
Army LG S. Berry

~ 
tHE INFLATION MACHINE CFR 
COL W Taylor (Prot Federal Reserve 
Army GENS Walker 
RADM A Welander Mihtary Academy! CFR
CFR
Na;J CFR 
H. C Wall ish CFR LG G. Lovong CFR RADM C Tesh (Concepts & 


OSDISAI
Army BG J. Thompson CFA Navy CAPT J. Dewenter CFR ADM S Turner (CIA I CFR ARMS CONTROL 
CFR 
AF COL L Pleofter BG W Usher(USAFI DISARMAMENT 
CFR CFR
Navy CAPT A Moale CFR GENS Walker AF COLT Juhan 
CFR (S E Europe! CFR
BG T Ayers
Ar~~ CFR MG J Welch (iludoes &
BG J Plautz 
CFRS. M. Keeny, Jr .. 
Anatys1s1
CAPT S Aollg CFR
Deputy Director Na;~ CFR
CFR COL M McPeak COL J Wolcoll (USAF I 
CFR CFRA. S Fosher COL A. Dewey COL A G Head (USAF) 
A Yarmohnsky CFA Ar~~ CFR CFR
.CFR 
COL J Wolcott 
CFR VADM Wm Crowe (USN) 
J Newhouse CFR
::FR 
CAPT H Foske
B. M. Steen Na;~ CFR VADM Thor Hanson (USN) CFR
CFR COL A Head CFR
T. A Halsted CAPT F Klotz (USAF) 
CFR CFR
Army COL J Sewall CFR
H. M. Agnew CFA GEN E C Meyer (ARMY) 
Navy CAPT H. Kerr · CFR
T J Watson. Jr. 
CFA Navy CAPT A Kurth CFR GEN J A. Wocknam,
M Bundy CFR
Army COL B Loetfke Jr (ARMY!
P M Daly CFR CFR CFR
CFR L. Korkland CFA T W. K. Panolsky CFR 
J. Pleofler • One Copy $1.00
CFA 
B Scowcrofl 

CFR • Only %of original glossy poster is shown. DISARMAMENT? 
• To help this educational effort, order The International bankers' 
copies of this broadside@ $25.00 per 100~
C.F.R.Is disarming America while they finance the 
• Send $2.00 for complete listing of

world's largest military machine In Soviet Russia. C.F.R. and Trilateral members. Is a U. S. surrender • For Speaker Send Request. 
necessary to the formation 
---------·-···~--­

of their NEW WORLD ORDER? 
PLEASE SEND YOUR TOTALLY TAX This literature. may be DEDUCTIBLE CONTRIBUTIONS TO F.R.E.E. reprinted and widely TO HELP FURTHER OUR EFFORT. distributed by anyone when 
F.R.E.E. (Fund to Restore an Educated Electorate)
F.R.E.E. address Is left i;,tact. Phyllis Kaskus and Gary Arnold, Co-Chairpersons 72'6 Santa Monica Boulevard, Suite 202 Santa Monica, California 90401 

h. rr.I,IHl 'on h:nc ht'CnoUna"arc of Amcrica"s one party system is due to the fact that 
"There ha'l apparently been a covertfascist (National Socialist) takeorero.fthe l.'nited "The Trilateral Commission doe'in 't secretly run the world. The Comrcil on Fort·i~n 
~.,._·1-.dl'lkr·, C"hi't Cahal has completely controlled American politics for .10 years. 
Stares Gm·ernmenr." Anthony Sutton,.Ph.D. Relations does that." Winston Lord President C L R. 
...., 
::r 
~ 
0 
cr 
rti 
'"1 
~ 
tb 
""' 
\ 
I 
I 
I ! 
,_,I 
~ I 
(J"I ' 
g. 
~
.. 
0 
(j t"'t 
0 
0"" 
(b 
1-; 
. l'-..) 
..00 
\0 ~ 
00 
0 
I 
~ 
~ 
rD 
'-J 

·-........:. ------------·-------~------.~ -------------------·----­

-~ 
-----·---~---· ·-~-...--__.....,. ----------· -·----~ . --------------.!--____ _,.____~ -------------· 
r 


© 1980 by Chicago Tribune-N.Y. News Synd. Inc. 10/28/80 All Rights Reserved 
... 
The Obserwr. 
Catnpus 
•4:15 
p.m. -seminar, "control of the biosynthesis of winter flounder anti­freeze," speaker dr. yuan lin, univ. of ill., galvin aud. 

• 
7 p.m. -presentation, · <...areer opportunities inter­viewing skills," spons: proctor & gamble, 123 nieuwland, general public invited. 

• 7-9 p.m. -exhibition, 

u. 
of arizona grad students, isis gallery. 

• 
8 p.m. lecture, "chicago journalism: then and now," speaker kenan heise, commentator norman mark, spons: american studies program, library aud. 


• 6:30  p.m.  - ireland  
program  meeting,  carroll  
hall, smc.  

Am~r. Studies sponsors lecture 
The Department of Americah Studies is sponsoring a lecture series entitled "Chautauqua: Politics and Journalism-Chi­cago Style." The series will be held October 28, 29, and 30 in the Library Auditorium and Lounge. All lectures are planned for 8 p.m. 
Session I (10/28) features Kenan Heise speaking on the topic "ChicagoJournalism: Then and Now." Heise is the editor of the A£tion Line column in the Chicago Tribune. He will discuss such notable Chicago journalism personalities as Long John Wentworth, Wilbur B. Storey, Ben Hecht, and Col. Robert R. McCormick. 
The commentator following Heise's lecture is Norman Mark, well-known television personal­ity of the "Today in Chicago" show on Channel 5 (NBC), and author of Norman Mark's Chicago. 
Beaux-Arts Ball clue 
.. 
Today's Beaux-Arts Ball Clues for the hidden case of beer. Clue #l: October 31, 1969 
Clue #2: Cold side of a big leftover 

Tuesday, October 28, 1980-page 8 
-
Michael Molinelli 
li1.5 ALSO A CHJtNC£ TO G,O OLJr.SJPE ANP ENJOY 1HE &AlJTIFlJL 
FA.LL !.JE:AIH£R 





Charles M. Schulz 
I 

~OU USE A FOOTNOTE 
THEN I'M OKA~.. I DON'T W~EN 't'OU GIVE TI1E 
KNOW AN'r'llHN6 THAT'S NOT COMMON KNOWLED6E 

ACROSS 27 White House 54 Mysterious 1 Kitchen nickname 55 Dominant gadget 30 Leave 57 St. Johns 
8 Things 33 Vehicle 58 Airport due: abbr. 35 "Faust," abbr. 9 Switchboard for one 59 Groove 
section 38 Hebrides or 80 Nut or palm 14 Marble Mongolia 81 Heaven 15 Exclamation 37 Sara 82 Jewish 
of surprise 41 Weapons feast 16 VIvacious 42 Electric 17 Sycophants fish DOWN 19 Richards 43 Colorful 1 Essay 
of tennis shrub 2 Amaryllis 20 Knlevel 45 Manof plant 21 RoHer commerce 3 -show 22 Certain 46 Petrol 4 Lat. abbr. 
horses 49 Companion 5 Legal point 23 Female ruff of Athos 6 Taketums 24 Good 52 Bad: pref. 7 Beat-for 
citizens 53"-solt (celebrate) 26 Scheme qui mal•.•" 8 Call for help 9 Certain

Yesterday's Puzzle Solved: 
soldier 10 Gulnness and Waugh 
11 Supreme Court number 
12 Always 13 Trevino and Marvin 
18 "-give you any· thing.•." 

22 Khayyam, for one ~~;;!;;;;;~~~~~~~ 24 Contradic· tory 
25 Novellat 
Andric 28 Blotches 27 Judicial 
deeda 28 BoxerMax 29 Deviates 30 Be maudlin 
about 31 Foil 32 Campano4o­
glst's doing 34 Sorryone 38 European 
range 39 Nameof some popes 40 Reserve, In away 41 Carved pillar 44 Llkesome 
skies 45 Gaborlau 48 Melonor 
squash 47 Gun getter 48 Hindu 
guitar 49 Desert dweller 50 Ill-man· nered 
·51 Dill 53 Tabled'­55-de deux 58 Editors' 
concerns: abbr. 

let'sjam I the notredamestudent union presents 
II!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! country rock jam!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
featuring 
thevassarclementsband ......................." ....................." .............."___......... ., with specialguests 
tickets: $5.00 general admission j johnhall 
• $4.00 w. n.d./smc i.d. i 
heartsfield 
available at: ndsu ticket office m-f (12-4) II 
radloftyer
all river -city record stores I 

rich prezloso & kevin qulgley 
I 
chicken barbecue 5-8 p.m. tickets $3.50 i 

...............IIITIIIIIUII.IM..I ........IIII..IIIIINIIIIIIIIIIII I JITIIIIII IIIMlllwi 

sat.nov. 1st. stepancenter 
' • • I I I~ • ~7H'E S'ENIO:J? FO:RM'Jl£ CH'li.I:J?M'EN • COJ(•DJ'li.££Y :R'EQU'ESD IND'E:R'ESO'EV S'ENIO:J?S DO SU13MID Jl:P:P.J:IC'li.DIONS 'FOJ( DH'E F0££0WINQ COMMIDD'E'E :POSJOJONS: I. :7\t":fi.•lr,lfil'll Ch,,irm,ln 

2. H,•t,·{ f,!f~mr.rfic>ll :B,,c>~·{d Ch,rirmcl/1 
3. s,,..;,,{ L...<'lllllli.(;j,.,,,.,. .1;.,. .G•('p llrc·a. -1. B.d/ :;;::,.,.11/ [\·.ii:flltT 5 :}ux L"'/,,,irm,/11 (..;. .B;,1 -j),·.•iyllt"l" 7 I'ubill·if_l/ L...,,_,,,.,1iu,,h•r 
~-Ph,•f,•:fr•l/'/'!1 L"',•-,•r,1iwt.•r 
9. 
Fiii<IIJ(( L...l'lllllliff.-,· L...h.lifllldll 

10. 
S.-,,tin:f Jf.rr,/1/!ft'lllfllf.• L"'h,limlolll 



ND -Stu,l,·11t il..-til'lli,·.• ()_ffi.-,· · l..~IF,•rtuu,·l 

JL'I• '[\_;,·upfll'll.\ Eud,•.•,) n'it/, :ilpplr.-.lirt'll. 
DUE DATE: MONDAY, NOV. 3
• .,• 
I 

Molarity 

Peanuts® 
THAT'S A 6000 PAPERI SIR, BUT 'f'OU DIDN'T 
The Daily Crossword 
HEF£1.:5 A CHANC.F TO 
GET AHEAD or= H'( WDRK ... DD TUDSE PAPE~S ... RE'tiP 711~ 
BOO"'S 
WHI{ WOULD I NEED 
FOOTNOTES, MARCIE? 


•  

The Observer Tuesday, October 28, 1980-page9 
Moeller, where nearly 50 per­work," says Crable of his high 
• • • Faust cent of the student body par­school mentor. "He works 14 ticipates in one of the 11 varsity hours a day and does it everyday. 
[continued from page 12] 
school," says Faust. 
And indeed, Cincinnati Moeller is not an average high school. 
With an enrollment of 980 young men in grades 9-12, the Marianist-run school has a foot­ball team with 210 members. Seventeen assistant coaches and Faust direct a program that in­cludes three teams with full sea­son schedules: an all-freshman squad, an all-sophomore squad, and a varsity squad. 
Faust not only directs the football scene and runs the athletic office, he also heads a building fund drive that recently 
Saint Mary's .triumphs in tourney 
by Kelly Sullivan Women's Sports Editor 
With emotions running high for both clubs, an aggressive Saint Mary's volleyball team beat a spirited Notre Dame squad yesterday in a tri-match that also included Taylor University. It was the second time the Belles have downed the Irish this sea­son, winning in straight sets last night 15-6, 15-4. 
"We had a definite advan­tage," explained St. Mary's coach Erin Murphy. "Beating them earlier this year helped us. We knew we had done it, so we knew we could do it again. We didn't have to overcome that doubt ng about whether we were capable of winning." 
Aside from the psychological edge, another big plus for the Belles was the return of co­captain Marianne Viola, one of the team's best spikers. The sophomore attacker sustained a broken thumb in the Belles' sea­son openerand has only resumed play this weekend. 
"Marianne's become a better competitor since her injury," said Murphy. "After watching us from the bench the last couple of weeks she seems to know exactly where she's needed now." 
Irish coach Sandy Vanslager pinpointed her club's problems versus St. Mary's. "Our number one problem was our lack of communication on the court. We played well, but it was the 
minor  errors  that lost  us  the  
match.  We  missed  too  many  
serves,  and  that's  like  giving  

points away." 
In the night's opening contest, Notre Dame lost to Taylor in a full three-game match. After lo­sing the first clash 15-1 3, the visiting Trojans grabbed the mer mentum in the second game and defeated the Irish 15-8. Taylor went on to score 13 unanswered points in the deciding game as they blasted their way to a 15-2 victory to capture the match. 
The battle pitting St. Mary's against Taylor saw the Belles come from behind in the first and third games to down the Trojans 15-8, 15-17, 15-8. In that final game, St. Mary's lost three match points but managed to hold on for a win that upped their ledger to 10-8. They will travel to Go­shen for a match on Wednesday. Notre Dame will face the Red­skin club Wednesdav. as welt. 
completed a million dollar ad­dition, runs a walk-a-than, chairs the Booster Club, and logs times as the eighth-grade orientation director. In addition to his many Moeller duties, the 45-year-old Faust has found time to tour 38 states as a highly-acclaimed lec­turer. "It would be like someone going from governor to presi­dent," says Faust ofa high school to college switch. "If you have the capabilities, the previous level doesn't matter." Faust began his football career as a quarterback for his father, Fuzzy, at Chaminade High School. The elder Faust directed Chaminade football 20 years and retired just last year after49 years as a teacher in the Dayton-based school. A three-time letterman at the University ofDayton, Faust con­tinued his education with a master's degree from Cincin­nati's Xavier University. It was at his alma mater high school that Gerry Faust first be­came a football coach. After two years as Chaminade's offensive and defensive backfield coach,  tablished somewhat of a high sports, gathers its talent from 14 school farm system for major parishes in the Cincinnati area. colleges. Contrary to many reports, Faust Six current Notre Dame play­does not recruit. He merely takes ers are Moeller graduates-Bob the 300 or so players that try out Crable, Tim Koegel, Dave for Crusader football every year Condeni, Harry Oliver, Tony .and molds a winning team. Hunter and Rick Naylor. Crable, "We have had working kids . Hunter and Naylor served as :that dedicate themselves," says Crusader captains and were high ·Faust. "This high school pro­school all-Americans, as was gram is second-to-none in Koegel. helping the kids develop phy­"I'm close to all my players," . sically. says Faust of his coaching philo­· "God gives each one of us sophies. "My prime interest is · different talents and we develop getting them a good education. I · those talents-strengthening think of myself as their second . weak ones and building on father. My door is always open to strong ones." the kids." Few can deny that Faust has "He's a friend of all his play­·been uniquely successful at de­ers," confirms Koegel, who quar­veloping talent. Last year 23 terbacked the Crusaders from Crusaders received college foot­197 4-7 6 and holds virtually every ball scholarships, putting the Moeller passing record. "N<>; number ofMoeller football play­body's afraid to talk to him." ers active at the collegiate level "He'd do anything for the: near the 100 mark. kids," echoes Irish captain · Faust, who subscribes to the Crable. rule that"winningdevelops char­Faust places such emphasis on acter," was rewarded for his ef­befriending his players that he forts last year when he was claims, "I couldn't coach a kid· named as the National High unless I liked him. I haven't School Coach of the Year. found a kid yet that I haven't "His most outstanding feature  His motivation is unbelievable. He really gets fired up at prac­tice-from the moment it starts until the time it ends he's yelling good and bad and keeping you going." Faust-whose wife Marlene serves as the Crusader cheer­leader moderator and daughter Julie cheers for the sophomore squad-has only visited Notre Dame three times in his life. In 1952 he first came to South Bend as a recruited player; during the Parsegian years he visited the campus and" talked football for a couple of days"; and last spring he brought his wife, daughter, and two sons to see the Annual Blue-Gold Game. "When you walk on campus, Notre Dame gives you a certain feeling," reflects Faust. "It was evening and all you could see was the Dome all lit up. It brought tears to my eyes." Faust's deep religious beliefs are what have cemented him at Moeller and are the foundation of his hopeful switch to Notre Dame. As he has stated over and over again, that switch ollly would be to Notre Dame.  
he  moved  to  Moeller and  es- found some good in."  is  his  enthusiasm  towards  his  




That's when General Dynamics'  For more information on careers in  Or, if you prefer, send your  
representatives will be on your campus  aerospace, electronics, telecommuni­ resume to:  
to talk to you about your future.  cations, data products, shipbuilding,  BILL COLEMAN, Corporate College  
General Dynamics, a Fortune 100  tactical weaponry and other areas, be  Relations Administrator  
company, is best known as the na­ sure to pick up one of our brochures at  GENERAL DYNAMICS  
tion's leading defense contractor. But  your Placement Office and make an  Pierre Laclede Center, CN-13  
.. d have a wide-range of programs in  interview appointment.  St. Louis, MO 63105  
m~ny other commercial high-tech- An Equal Opportunity Employer  
I oiJiOgy fields as well.  And, plan to attend our Corporate  
You'll find excellent career oppor­ presentation the evening before  
tunities in nearly every engineering  our on-campus interviews. Details  
and scientific discipline, including  at your Placement Office.  
computer sciences and business  
administration.  
CAMPUS INfiRVIIWS  
OCJOBER 15&16  

------------------~------------------------...._...........-~--­
-
J 
The Observer Tuesday, October 28, 1980-page 10 
Soccer squad 
splits 2-2 
over break 
by Gary Grassey Sports Wrtler 

SOUTH ORANGE, N.J.-It is getting a bit redundant for Notre Dame soccer coach Rich Hunter, but the pattern con­tinues. 
After beginning their second annual Eastern swing with a gallant performance against the ninth-ranked Nittany Lions of Penn State University last Sun­day in State College, PA-a 4-2 Irish defeat-the Notre Dame soccer team turned around two days later and fell flat on its face at the hands of tiny Monmouth College, by a 2-0 count. The trip concluded with victories over Upsala and Seton Hall, 1-0 and 2­0, respectively. The Irish record now stands at 16-6. 
"Monmouth was the most hu­miliating thing this year," said a frustrated Hunter of the lack­luster loss to a squad that had entered the game with a meager 5-7 won-lost mark. "I really don't know howitisthatwecan play so well against the ninth team in the nation (Penn State) and the sec­ond team in the nation (Indiana threeweeks earlier) and then lose to Monmouth. It was just hu­miliating-even the kids used that word to describe it." 
The remainder of the trip added two victories to the Irish ledger, but they were not exactly works of art, either. 
"We played better," said Hunter after the Seton Hall game~ "But I can't say we played well. We should have had about eight goals against these guys." 
The Pirates had entered the 
game with a dismal 1-8 record. 
"It was the same thing with 

Monmouth, Upsala, and Seton 'Hall," remarked senior c~cap­tain 0 liver Franklin. "They all played the best game they've ever played and we just played at 
their level of competition." 
Against Seton Hall, the Irish 

were held to a scoreless tie at the 
half. Two crucial stops by goalie 
Bob Ritger, starting his first 
game in two years for Notre 
Dame, prevented Pirate halfback 
Mike Curci from putting the 
Irish in an early hole. 
Before the match deteriorated 

into a second half fist-fight, 
Notre Dame's top goal-getter, 
Kevin Lovejoy, ended the sus­
pense at 48:35 when he lofted a 
chip shot into the far cornerfrom 
''WHEN MY FRIENDS COME TO AMERICA 
IRLLTHEM:AMIGOS,DRINK Lm BEER••• BUT DON'T DRINKTHE WATER!' 
I ,_ 


LITE BEER FROM Mil'D. 
EVERYTHIIIG YOU ALWAYS WAITED II a·BEER. AND LESS. 
C1980 Beer Brewed by Miller Brewing Co., Milwaukee, Wis. 

20 yards out on the left side. Bill 
Murphy's assist on the play was 
his first point of an injury­
plagued senior year. 
The outcome remained in doubt, however, as the Irish continually botched scoring op­portunities and gave Seton Hall more chances than their limited skills merited. But with two min­utes to play, Notre Dame for­ward Ed O'Malley was assaulted by a Pirate defender and awarded a penalty kick. When Seton Hall goalie Steve Mango decided the ball was placed too close to his net by the referee in lieu of the free boot, he was tossed out of the game. His replacement, f~ rward Tony Colavita, was in no shape to stop O'Malley's shot and the Irish walked away with their 2-0 victory. 
Notre Dame dominated Seton Hall in all statistical categories. The Irish outshot their opposi­tion 25-6. Goalie Ritger and his second half replacement Gerard McCarthy were forced to make only three saves. Pirate keeper Mango stopped six Irish shots, in an otherwise sloppy game that consisted of almost forty fouls. 
"I guess it's just difficult for us to get up for teams like Seton Hall and Monmouth after Penn State," theorized Hunter, "But we're gonna have to learn some­time." CORNER KICKS­.Freshman forward Rob Snyder scored the lone Irish goal in the Upsala victory on an assist from Mike Mai...Lovejoy and Mike Sullivan had goals against Penn State ... both came on assists from Dannie McCurrie... the Irish played the Lions to a 0-0 halftime standoff and trailed 3-2 until the final four minutes when State's Bob Waizenegger clinched it. . All-American Peter Jancevski scored the first two Penn State goals ... McCarthy was outstand­ing in the Notre Dame nets with 13 saves ... Sami Kahale, Lovejoy, and O'Malley are tied for the team scoring lead with 14 points... the Irish moved to back to the #7 spot in the Great 
Lakes Region rankings last week (before Penn State) after dipping to #1 0 the previous week... this afternoon at 4 p.m. Notre Dame faces the University of Chicago on the Maroons' home turf. 
Hockey tickets pick up today 
All students must pick up hockey tickets today from 9:00 until 5:00 on the second floor of the ACC. 
• • • Jeers 
[continued from page 12] 
last period Friday," said Smith. "We coughed up the puck like crazy in our own zone." 
Logan finished the weekend with three goals and two assists to lead the Irish while Poulin and Rothstein had two goals and two assists. McNamara, in addition to his superb defensive efforts, wound up with an assist. 
Coach Smith's club entertains Central Collegiate opponent Bowling Green tonight at 7:30 
p.m. in the Athletic and Convocation Center. Plenty of seats remain available for the Irish home opener. 
The Falcons finished with a 16­20-2 mark last year for a fourth place slot in the CCHA. In their only contest with Bowling Green last year the Irish finished on top, 5-2. 
.. 

The Observer Tuesday, October 28, 1980-page 11 
MEN'S OPEN-SEMIFINALS 

Interhall 
INTERHALL TENNIS Following are the pairings for the next round of lnterhall Tennis Play. The results of these matches mu&t be turned in to the interhall office by Wednesday, Nov. 5. 
MEN'S NOVICE -FINALS Kempf (8595) vs. Wicke (1685) 
• • • 6-0 
[continued from page 12) 
"I just told myself this week that I had to get better as a passer," he said with authority. "I went into this game with the attitude that I was going to con­centrate and do better. I need to continue improving, but I was pretty happy with my passing tonight." 
Kiel entered the contest with a skimpy . 360 completion percen­tage (18 of 50) for 179 yards. 
"Kiel's stats have been mis­leading," Devine said. "This was his fifth game, and tonight he threw his first interception. I don't worry about his stats any more than Dallas Green worries about Pete Rose's batting aver­age. They both do a lot of things that don't show up in the stats, like the run on the fake punt." 
Sophomore wide receiver Tony Hunter was another who enjoyed the best day ofhis Notre Dame career, catching seven pas­ses, most of them on short side­line patterns. "We ran a lot of12­yard outs," said Hunter, whose receptions covered 75 yards. "That's such a tough play to defend against. It was something that we picked up watching films 
. of their Washington State game (which Arizona lost, 38-14). We knew they were a little suscepti­ble to that." 
Hunter, who had just 13 recep­tions in the team's first five con­tests, added, "I really needed that 
_ kind of a game. It gave me some of the confidence I needed." Kiel's touchdown sprint, a one-yard scoring blast by Stone and a pair of field goals by Harry Oliver added up to Notre Dame's lowest offensive output of the season-20 points. Oh, but that defense .... It was a rough evening for freshman quarterback Tom Tunnicliffe and the Arizona of­fense. Tunnicliffe's completion percentage was impressive (15 of 
Wolf (3830) vs. Herman (1 789) Mountain (283·3368) vs. Simoni (3087) WOMEN'S-FINALS Rakochy (6874)vs. Kilbride (277·8757) MIXED DOUBLES-RESULTS Betsy Klug & Kent Brockelman -Champions 
WOMEN"S SOCCER STANDINGS 

Breen Phillips  2·1  
Farley  2·2  
Walsh  1·2  

26), but that was about it The 
Irish pass rush threw the first­
time starter to the turffive times, 
and the rookie signal-caller had 
two of his passes picked off, one 
by Tom Gibbons and the other 
by Dave Duerson. 
Freshman Irish defensive tack­
le Tim Marshall, who was 
credited with three of those 
quarterback sacks, should inher­
it Don Kidd's spot for the re­
mainder of the season. Kidd un­
derwent surgery yesterday to re­
pair torn ligaments in his right 
knee, incurred against the 
ildcats. 
The Irish defensive unit turned in its best effort of the 1980 campaign allowing just 71 yards on the ground and 166 overail. The Irish held their opponent without a touchdown for the second straight week. In fact, the Wildcats had not been held with­out a touchdown in 15 years. 
(In case you left for break early, Notre Dame beat visiting Army last Saturday, 30-3.) 
"We bent a little at times de­fensively," said Devine, "but we didn't give Arizona the big plays they're capable of making. And once the defense has gotten a little bit of a lead the past two weeks, it hasn't given up much of anything at all." 
The Wildcats were pretty hap­PY with their defensive showing. "I thought we made the big plays," said honors candidate free safety Dave Liggins. "And I thought it was definitely our best effort on defense in quite a while." 
However, Arizona's first-year coach Larry Smith found little consolation in his team's solid effort against the Irish. Sounding much like the late Vince Lombardi, Smith said, "I was proud ofthe whole team, but I'm damn tired of losing. Being proud isn't what counts. Win­ning is the whole thing." 

Gadg~t works 
by Michael Ortman Associate Sports Editor 
TUCSON, Ariz. -When a 
gadget play doesn't work, coach­
es will admit that you don't win 
games by fooling people. But 
when they work, trick plays can 
be the key to victory. 
Such was the case here Satur­
day night as Irish coach Dan 
Devine pulled a cleverly scouted 
fake punt out ofhis bag oftricks, 
triggering Notre Dame to a 20-3 
victory over Arizona. 
With just over two minutes to go in the first half and the Irish leading by only four points, Notre Dame punter and quarterback Blair Kiel stood on his own five yard line, a place where no one would expect a team to risk turn­ing the ball over, apparently ready to punt on fourth and five. 
Butafter the snap the Wildcats went one way and Kiel went the other, tucking the ball under his arm and racing down the left side for an 80-yard touchdown. The freshman needed just one block near midfield from fellow-rookie Daane Spielmaker on Arizona's Marcellus Green, and he was off to the races. The run was Notre Dame's longest play from scrim­mage this season. 
"That play turned the game around," said Arizona coach Larry Smith. "We were not in block coverage. We had the return on. The problem was that both our outside men went for the block instead of playing it smart. Their job is to be safety valves on the outside. 
"It was an excellent play on the part of Kiel. He just dodged the outside guy and that was it. Our other men had their backs to the play." 
But the Wildcats were not the only surprised players on the field. Except for Kiel, none of Devine's men knew it was coming. 
"There were only two people who knew about the fake punt," admitted Devine, "Blair Kiel and myself. It's something we talked about before thegame. Butl told Blair that I would send word in with the center ifwe would do it. Then I couldn't get to him (center Bill Siewe) in time." 
So just before the snap, Kiel looked over at Devine on the 
Irish "trick" Cats 
sideline. And with a wave of the cats tried it . 'lturday, the Irish 
magician's arm, the Irish were up were ready. 14-3, instead of giving Arizona With five __·.inutes remaining good field position with a punt. in the game, punter Sergio Vega 
"When I turned the corner, I stood on his own 12. But the snap could see one of their guys and was cut offbyArizona linebacker about seven white jerseys," said John Pace in an attempt to run Kiel. "It was fantastic. All I had to for the first down. Pace was 
do was read the block. promptly dumped by Irish line­"I think that's the longest run backer Mark Zavagnin, giving I've ever had." Notre Dame the ball just inside 
Devine and Kiel beat Arizona the 25. at its own game. The punt had Three plays later Harry Oliver been the best offensive weapon tied the school mark for field for the struggling Wildcats (2-4), goals in a season with a 38-yard 
as they had blocked five already boot, his 1 3th of the season and 
this season and faked success­second of the game, giving the 
fully themselves on a couple of Irish the final margin of victory, 
occasions. But when the Wild-20-3. 
Sports Briefs _ ____, 
The Ski ClUb will hold a seminar, "Ski Race Strategy," tonight at 7:30 p.m. in room 2D of LaFortune Student Center. A film and short lecture will highlight the meeting that is open to all Notre Dame Ski Club members and anyone else interested. For more information call Michael Case at 288-0416. 
Houst(... .. Astros President and General 
Manager Tal Smith, who rebuilt the team and led it to the National League Western Division championship, was fired yesterday and replaced by former New York Yankee President. AI Rosen. "Mr. Rosen replaces Mr. Talbot Smith whose contract was terminated in accordance with its terms," a tersely­worded statementsaid. The announcementwas made by John). McMullen, chairman and chiefexecutive officer ofthe Houston Sports Association, owners of the NL team. McMullen said in the statement that the Astros were required to inform Smith this year if they desired to sign a newcontract with him when the present agreement expired on November 30 of next year. McMullen refused to comment yesterday after the statement was distributed by messenger. Smith said he was surprised by the owner's action. "A person's performance is what normally prevails," Smith said. "Even though we came a run short of winning the National League pennant this year, I still think it was a very successful year for the Astros and this franchise." Rosen was not immediately available for comment. 
Ralph Houk, saying he missed "the fun and excitement" ofbaseball during two years in Florida retirement, returned yesterday by agreeing to a two-year contract as manager of the Boston Red Sox. "I'd also like to win one more pennant," Houk, 61, told an afternoon news conference. "Once you've been in baseball all your life like I've been, it's a little harder to leave than you think it is." Houk, who began 16 years as a major league manager by winning three American League pennants in a row in 1961-63 with the New York Yankees, retired after five years as field boss of the Detroit Tigers in 1978. -AP 


~-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
All classified ads must be received by 5:00p.m.. two days prior 
to the issue in which the ad is run. The Observer office will accept­classifieds Monday through Friday, 10:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. All classifieds rnust be pre-paid, either in person or through the mail.  
NOTICES OVERSeAS JOBS: Summer/year round Europe, S. Amer., Australia, Asia. All fields $500·$1200 monthly. Expenses paid. Sighlseelng. Free info. Wrlle: UC, Box 52-IN 4, Corona Del Mar, CA. 92625. -­----­--­BASEBALL CARD SHOW, NOV. 1, QUALITY INN, DOWNTOWN SO. BEND, 9 A.M. TO 4 P.M. FOOTBALL, BSKBALL CARDS. N.D. PROGRAMS, SPORT MAGAZINES, ETC. BUY, SELL, TRADE. INFO. 255·1738. FOR RENT 2 room apl. $50 I'TIO. Near. 233· 1329.----­FOR RENT: Ugly Duckling Rent-A-Car. Priced from $7.95 a day and seven cents a mile. Phone 255-2323 for reservations.  Counlry house for renllen minutes to campus 277-3604 288·0955 WANTED I need a ride lo the NO-Navy game at Glanrs sladlum on 1 Nov. Call Tim P. at 4511. -------­-­needed: riders to Des Moines or anywhere along 1·80. Leaving Thurs. oct. 30 and returning on Sunday. Call John 3556. DOUMBEC (Tablah) instrucllon . 291·8215, evenings. CAMPUS REPRESENTATIVE POSITION! Part-time posillon promollng high quality spring break beach trips on campus for commission plus free !ravel Cal or write for an applicallon. Summit Travel. Inc., Parkade Plaza. Columbia, Mo., 65201, (800) 325­0439.  NAVAl OFFICERS· The Naval Reserve i5 looking for ensigns lhru Ll. Commanders for affiliation with the reserve program. Pay blllels are currenlly available. For Information contacl Cdr. Peter Rumely, 272-9053. FOR SALE For Sole • good NAVY tlckels. Call 233·7829 or 1859. TICKETS ~rgenlly need 1 tu ' GEORGIA TECH lickets. You name price. JOE 1782  We're ready for the Meadowlands of New Jersey, EXCEPT we need FOUR nCKETS for the NAVY GAME on NOV t. Please help some loyal senior roolball fans. Can Teresa at 4·1·•788. DESPERATELY NEED 'BAMA TICKETSIII CAN'T THINK OF AN ORIGINAL REASON FOR YOU TO SELL YOURS TO ME RATHER THAN ANYONE ELSE: AT LEAST I'M HONEST... PLEASE CALL • 3283 AND ASK FOR CHRIS. WANTED: Tlx for NO vs Alabama game. Min 2, max 4. Will negotiate your selling price. Call collect any day after 5 p.m., 1·404·945-2658. Linda or Bill MUier. PERSONALS Juniper Press Is selling out ­out of books, that is. Molarity comic slrlps coming soon.  WITH OR WITHOUT PURCHASE. MATREPUBLICANS: THIS IS OUR I.AST SHOT. REMEMBER TONIGHT$ HOURS.BEFORE 8 a.m. LOCATION· EXTREMELY IMPORTANT STRATEGY 1121 FLANNER AND 621 (SPECIAL BARGAIN OUTLET). PRIVATELYMEETING AT 6:30PM IN l..AFORTIJNE BALLROOM. THIS IS OUR FINAL OWNED AND OPERATED BY THE MAJOR MEETING, SO PLEASE BAHAMAS CLUE GANG. A DIVISION ATTEND. OF X-8-WE'RE-SO-THERE·GET·YOUR· HEAD-TOGETHER·CALL·NEW-YORK­ENTERPRISES. All RIGHTS RESERVED. ANNOUNCING THE GRAND OPEN· THE MEN FROM CANADA HAVE lNG OF 'THE CLUE MAT. YES FOLKS. RETURNED!!!! WE'RE THE WORST!!!! NOW YOU TOO CAN GET A CLUE AS Jusl how many STEVE SCHMITZ's areTO WHY THE BABY CRIED ON THE there?nPlANE, ALONG WITH CLUES ON HAMSTERS. SUNBURNS. MOTOR WANTED: LARGE, FULL-FIGURED ND· SCOOTERS AND HOW TO T-P A HOTEL SMC WOMAN FOR MY ROOMMATE'S ROOM. THE All-NEW CLUE STORE DATE FOR A SCREW-YOUR-ROOMMATE EVEN FEATURES A SPECIAL 'TWO-FOR' DANCE ON HALLOWEEN NIGHT. MUST SECTION, WITH SUCH POPULAR BE ABLE TO FIT THE DESCRIPTION OF SONG CLUES AS PUSH PUSH. "250 lbs. OF ROMPIN', STOM.PIN' CALIFORNIA BACKSTROKE, HOTEL LOVE." MUD WRESTLING EXPERIENCE MOTEL. ANOTHER ONE BITES THE DUST PREFFERED. AIRHEADS NEED NOT AND THE DISCO VERSION OF MICKEY APPLY. LEAVE NAME, ADDRESS. AND MOUSE. SPECIAL GRAND OPENING PICTURE AT i31 KEENAN. CLUES ARE A 6-7 BASKETBALL PlAYER CLUE AND THE WORLO·RENOWNED YELLOW VW CLUE. FREE DOGBOOK CLUES WITH EVERY PURCHASE OVER Really, Molly!$10. FREE BEE AND CARROT CLUES,  

..... --.................. ' , ............ ~ ................ ,.J 
........... , .. ~,~-.. 


~----------------.........--......... .........,..___,..,.....,._____...,..'"-!!_________________~~-------­
-
orts 

Tuesday, October 28, 1980-page 12 
Ij ~ COLORADO SPRINGS­it by McNamara after stellar per­Notre Dame and Colorado formances from the Irish goalie 
r \ : 
rL Rumors favor Faust. • • 
College played a game Saturday and shorthanded team. 
night: Who can get more penal­MeNamarastopped 18 shots in f ties in a 60-minute contest. the second period-the Irish I by Beth Huffman the University of Virginia's "If it wasn't Notre Dame, I In between, they also played a were two-men down three times­I Sports Editor athletic director, did reveal that wouldn't leave," said Faust, a hockey game. And the Irish won and 14 in the final stanza to finish 
f during an interview for the native ofDayton, Ohio. "Ifi was both events. with 43 saves. A high-ranking University athletic director's post, his offered the job I would put my Junior right wing Jeff Logan McNamara also got help from athletic official disclosed to The opinion was sought by Univer­heart and soul into football, but I collected his fourth career hat Kirt Bjork, who deflected awa~ a 
•Jb.rertJer that Gerry Faust, head · sity officials. "It (the selection of ~ould also put my heart and soul trick Saturday to lead Notre shot from within the confines of coach at CincinnatiMoeller High a new football head coach) was into Notre Dame." Dame to a 6-2 triumph over the the net during a flurry in the 'lchool, will be named to succeed pretty far along," said Corrigan, The philosophy and environ­Tigers. The win followed a 5-4 second period. 
I Dan Devine as Notre -Dame who claimed he. "always has an ment of Notre Dame, according Colorado victory Friday in the John Schmidt kept pace for the rJ , football mentor. opinion." to Faust, is what attracts him the series openerand gives the Irish a Irish in the second period with a 
.. ' l 
I Faust wou1d be the first "They had done more on that most. A devout Catholic, the 1-1 record and a share of third goal at 9:43, putting Notre -:ndividual to make the ju01p than the athletic direQtorship at Moeller coach and athletic direc­place after the opening weekend Dame ahead by three going into from high school coaching to the time." tor feels Notre Dameand Moeller of Western Collegiate Hockey the final period. Logan collected ::ish head coach since Terry Faust, who has made no effort "stand for many of the same Association play. his hat trick at 17:45 of the third 
II ; 
f' rennan in 1954. Brennan, who to hide his desire for the Notre things." Referees Kevin Fay and Larry stanza. All told, the Irish killed 12 
I ' : ·ft Chicago Mount Carmel for Dame coaching job, admits that "I put it in God's hands and Thomas whistled 21 penalties for of 14 Tiger power plays while ...;outh Bend, compHed a 32-18 in the past he has had offers from pray to the Blessed Mother," said 42 minutes, a team record (the scoring five times out of eight :e(ord prior to his firing in 1958. other major colleges: but empha­Faust. "What She feels is best is old mark was 16), against the with the advantage. 
''I've not been contacted,'' said sizes that he has not been the decision I'll go along with. It Irish Saturday while the Tigers Friday night Notre Dame's ·aust, who boasts a 170-17-2 tempted t<_J accept any of those mav not be what I want, but it is were . bagged 1 7 times for 34 Rex Bellomy and Colorado's xord after nearly 18 seasons at positions. wh~t's best." minutes. After everything was Bob Mancini exchanged first · 'tc Crusader helm. "Believe me, totaled, both teams had ~ ·x men period goals for a 1-1 score. Dale ~1is is the truth, I have not met on the ice for barely a period. Maksymyk gave the Tigers a 2-1 ·.·ith them. "It was a shame the penalites lead at 4:1 3 of the second period "It seems like more and more had to mar the game," said Notre when he put a rebound shot by.
, ' .Moeller mentor 
-."ople know more than I do­Dame head coach Lefty Smith. goalie Dave Laurion. lUt I hope they're right." by Beth Huffman Ohio, native won the first of his "But we responded well to the Poulin ignited a three-goal Other reports from around the Sports Editor 11 Greater Cincinnati League adversity. I thought our specialty burst just 29 seconds later to 1untrv have "confirmed" the championships. The first of teams played great and Bob even the score. John Schmidt's dection of various others, Garv Famt is Moellerfootball and seven regional titles came in McNamara was oustanding in power play goal at 8:45 and including Joe Restic of Harvard A1odler football is Gerry Frmst. 1971, the first of four state goal." Rothstein's shorthanded tally at .md George Welsh of Navy; To q-uote an often-used cliche championships in 1975, and the Notre Dame blasted Colorado 11:35 then put the Irish ahead4­however, no official decision has this rather simple statement ta­first of three national crowns in College for three first-period 2 heading into the final period. been released bv Notre Dame. A ken from Cincinnati Moeller's 1976. power play goals. Bill Rothstein's But an overall Irish defensive spokesperson ·for the Sports 1980 football pressbook hitsthe Faust and Moeller boast a slapper at 5:44, Dave Poulin's lapse and a more aggressive Tiger
nail smack-dab on the head. lifetime record of 170-17-2 with deflection at 13:04 and Logan's
Information Department said attack turned the tide in the third the announcement "more than Gerry Faust, who is not only eight undefeated teams. Cur­first goal at 19:29 gave the Irish a period. Bruce Aikens and Scott 
the Ohio football powerhouse rently, the Crusader squad is 9-0 3-0 lead after one.
likelv will not come until the end Hampson were presented with of the current season." head coach, but also its athletic with one regular season game Logan extended the lead to 4-0 gifts in theNotre Dame zone and
~ I ~ Eugene Corrigan, who was director, founded the Crusader remaining. at 59 seconds of the second their goals at 3:35 and 8:19·{ recently named to replace the program in 1960 with a freshman But, as the majority ofskeptics period when Kevin Humphreys evened the score, 4-4. Greg
I 
J ; retiring Edward "Moose" Krause, squad. By 1963 Faust, whose complain, Faust is a high school found him streaking up ice. Whyte's power play goal at 12:53 
declined to comment on the name rumors have spread as coach. Logan picked out the upper right gave the Tigers the win. appointment ofDevine's replace­Notre Dame's next head football "This is not an averagr h;.-.h corner ..perfectly against Tiger "Our defense fell asleep in the ment in an interview last week. coach, yielded his first varsity goalie ~ndy Struch.
[continued on page 9]
Corrigan, who currently se~es as squad. In 1965 the Dayton, Both Colorado goals came [continued on page!Oj 


' I 
!· ) 
1 
Ii
I 


tot til offeme du ri11g the seco11dhalf (photo by Michael St.John, Arizo11a Daily
I 
l'f'ildmt) (Photo by Greg Maurer)

I I 
I. For Devine 's job
I! . 
~.J:., 
-::­
M• ...... _-,______ """ 
• .:..~lo.._ ---,.;--··­

___ ~~-~... -. ·*··· . -:~~--,... 
• '"'!•' 
..._. ·.,.'"' 
,. 

.-.-...-;.:-:'
-·'< 
~­
._,.­
~:.;;:: 
-~-.····*'­
•*'" 


Notre Dtllllt' defensive back Dave Duerson /onx jo11rthqttarter 
mterception retur11 called h(J(__:k when the Irish UJere calledfor a personalfo11L Tbe Notre lJame deferJSe t~!lowed ;its! 39 yards in 
Wm 20-' 

Green Machine: 6-0 
by Michael Ortman buted to Notre Dame's third formance, tying the school's Associate Sports Editor straight 100-plus game in penalty mark in that department. He yardage. The 114 yards in pen­wracked up 105. yards on 29 TUCSON, Ariz. -"The alties hiked the season total to carries -more than the other Green Machine is 6-0." 514 as compared to just 281 pen­five ball-carriers combined who 
That was clearly the theme alty yards for Irish opponents. totaled 26 rushes. among a physically drained The Irish players were ex­"I think Arizona has a talented bunch of football players in the hausted following their ~ixth team," Stone said. Once they victor's locker room here Satur­straight victory. A combination adjusted to us, they played very day night-that just about said ofatmospheric conditions got to well. They made it very tough for it all. It wasn't overwhelming or them early. Tucson isn't the us to get around the outside." even all that convincing, but "Mile High City" that Denver is, Stone has never been one to Notre Dame's 20-3 win over the but the "Old Pueblo" is at an complain about overwork. "I upset-minded Arizona Wildcats elevation of 2,400 . feet. That like it," he said. "Like everybody 
. was a win nonetheless. coupled with incredibly dry air else on this team, I'll be ready 
The unbeaten and now third­(just 16 percent humidity at when I'm called upon. Whatever ranked Fighting Irish have but kickoff) drained the regulars. it takes to win, I'Ii do." two more sticky little obstacles "You could really notice a Freshman signal-caller Blair to clear before their November difference the minute we got Kiel recorded his best day as a 15 showdown with top-ranked here," said fullback John collegian hitting on 11 of 20 Alabama in Birmingham. Sweeney. "After the first series, I passes for 152 yards plus an 
TheMidshipmenofNavy, now was hurting. It was really tough interception, all season highs. 5-2 on the year after their im­to breathe out there." Kiel became the fifth quarter­pressive 24-10 upset of Rose Senior tailbackJim Stone, who back to enjoy a career-best Bowl hopeful Washington on filled in for injured sophomore performance against the Wild­Saturday, will face the Irish in the Phil Carter for the third consecu­cats this season. In addition, he Meadowlands (New Jersey) this tive week, was visibly exhausted had his best game as a punter, coming Saturday. Notre Dame after the contest. The team's averaging 43 yards on three then plays Georgia Tech in workhorse since taking over for kicks. · Kiel also scampered 80 Atlanta November 8. Carter (who stayed home still yards for a touchdown on a clever 
"Arizona should be proud of nursing a severely bruised thigh) fake punt (see related story on the way they played out there," three weeks ago recorded his page 11). Irish coach Dan Devine said after third-straight 1 00-yarJ-plus per-the game. "We knew they had good people, but I thought our defense did a good job holding them most of the time." 
leers split at CC, 
It seemed the Irish offense did a good job holding Arizona most of the time as well. A whopping 
host Falcons tonight 
-five  holding  penalties  contri­ 
by Brian Beglane Sports Writer  when the Tigers had a two-man skating advantage. Greg Hampson and Bruce Aikens put  

lv~
--~----------~-------------------------------------------------------------------------­




