~-------~ 
, , , *&?~$%weather! -Page 4 

·VOL. XIV, NO. 103 an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and saint ffiary's TIJESDAY, MARCH 11, 1980 

At Literary Festival, Hare huntors audience 
by Pam Degnan Senior StaffReporter 
''The theater is a rough and nasty place," explained David Hare, the British playwright and author of the controversial play Teeth 'N' Smiles. Hare was the second of a series of authors who will visit the campus this week as part of the 1980 Sophomore Literary Fes­tival. 
Hare humored a moderate­sized audience in Washington Hall last night with his reflec­tions on the "plight of a 
playwright''  and  the  super­ 
ficiality  of  the  American  
theater.  

Hare revealed to the audi­ence that a playwright must do what he can to raise the level of consciousness of the individual. The noted author stressed that an artist should not have to worry about the threat of cen­sorship. Hare commented on the recent ND SMC production of his play Teeth 'N' Smzles as an example of ''Catholic cen­sorship.'' 
"I can't understand why Catholics always have the urge to censor 'questionable' mater­ial. Everytime I write, I feel that I'm writing for a fanatic rel­igious sect," Hare said. 
"I've heard that Americans absolutely hate sex, drugs, and profanity--strip those from Teeth 'N' Smiles and all that _remains is absolutely nothing," 
the playwright added. 
Hare then captivated the 
audience with his reflections on 
his "humble origins" as the 
director of a small travelling 
theater group. The theater 
group, accordmg to Hare, had 
an "excess of capital" of $30 
and lived day-to-day out of a 
van. 
"If I learned anything from 
that experience, it was that one 
can not just 'get by' --it is the 
death of art. We should not be 
concerned with making money. 
Somehow if you don't think 
about money, it will eventually 
pop up along the way,'' Hare 
explained. 
The playwright then ad­
dressed the problems surround­
ing the American theater. 
"In the U.S., theater is 
geared towards the decorative. 
You don't value the moral arts 
as much as we do in England. 
Perhaps you have much more 
confidence in your society,'' 
Hare said. "There is no sub­
stantial role for theater in 
American society.'' 
[continued on page 3] 


Reagan looks to sweep South in today'Sprimaries 
(AP)-With a timely boost from John B. Connally's with­drawal from the presidential race, Ronald Reagan looked yesterday for a sweep of three Southern Republican primaries. President Carter was a sure bet t'o win big among down-home Democrats. 

Several ticketsfinish close in elections 
by Tom jackman 
Run-offs will be held tomorrow to determine 
Each of the three races were quite close, with 
winners  in  each  of  this  year's  three  class  
elections,  in whic h  initial  balloting  was  held  
yesterday.  

the two finalists never separated by more. than nine votes. Only two votes separ~ted rhe _uckets ofJim Veraldi and Mickey Turza1, who wlll face off in the contest for Senior class office. Nine votes was the difference between Junior class front-runners Michael Cassidy and Rob Ver­furth, and Sophomore class leaders Modesto 

Campus Campaign '80 
Ruggiero and Bill Hennessey were separated by just eight votes. 
Turnout yesterday among students was good, with better than 76 percent of the Freshman class voting, 61. 3 percent of the Sophomores and 
64.3 percent of the Junior class casting ballots. 
Ombudsman Election Chairman Tom Call said he was pleased with the operation of the campaigns and elections. and that_ there were no violations of rules by any of the five Senior, four Junior or four Sophomore class hopefuls. 
In the five-ticket Senior class race, the team of Jim Veraldi (Pres.)-Tim Ronan(VP)-Beth Toomey (Sec.)-Debbie Smith (Treas.) picked up 350 of the 1083 votes cast, or 32.1 percent. Two votes behind was the ticket of Mickey Turzai-J anie Revord-Dave Campbell-Chuck Meakin, which collected 348 votes, also 3'2.1 percent. 
Trailing close behind was the ticket of Keith Melaragno-Steve Notaro-Amy Olin-Bob Gerth with 22.8 percent, followed by the tickets of Chris Nunnelley-Donna Leary-Laura Leitzinger­Tom Jennings and Rockey Bleyer-Steve Laham­Anne Fink-Mary Beth Sterling, which tied with 
6.4 percent each. 
The team of Michael Cassidy-Megan Boyle­Keith Caughlin-Suzie Bautista finished first in Sophomore class balloting with 359 of the 1041 votes cast, 34.5 percent, just ahead of the ticket of Rob Verfurth-Kathy Collins-Kathleen Water­bury-Bob Murfhy, which collected 350 votes or 

33.6 percent o the vote. · 
Finishing behind the two run-off teams were the tickets of Mick Burton-Sue Kloskowski­Stasey Obremskey-Jim Finnerty, which _picked up 20.7 percent of the ballots, and Timothy Brady-Mark Mulholland-Beth Prezio-Matthew Lewis, which garnered 11.2 percent. 
The Freshman class vote was the closest ofall, with only 54 votes separating the first from the fourth finisher. The Modesto Rug~iero-Sara McGrath-Mark Michuda-Bill Mateja ucket cap­tured 258 of the 1204 votes cast for 21.4 percent, but the Bill Hennessey-Jenny Murtaugh-Tom O'Brien-Mike Doyen ticket was only eight votes behind, with 250, for 20.7 percent, to qualify for the run-off. 
Not far behind were the tickets of Robert Powers-Mary Kinsella-Chris Davis-Kathe Calla­han, which picked up 19.4 percent, and Jim DuBoyce-Mary Powel Jabaley-Mike Mills-Mary Coogan, which gained 16.9 percent. 
A statistical breakdown of the Senior class officers election shows that although the Jim Veraldi ticket carried only seven of the 23 halls (including off-campus) to Mickey Turzai's 12 halls, Veraldi captured halls such as Breen­Phillips, Dillon and Zahm by such large margins that he was ·able to gain admittance to the final 
ballot today . 

In Zahm, his home hall, Veraldi was the victor with 53 votes to seven for the other four tickets. Additionally, in Veraldi's vice-president's hall, Tim Ronan ofDillon, his-ticket won by 41 to 13 for the other tickets. 
Tumour was lightest among Sophomore class students, where the fewest voters out of the largest eligible class turned out yesterday. Again, home territory was important to each of the candidates. Mike Cassidy won his own hall 
[continued on page 4] 
At stake in today' s primaries in Florida, Alabama and Geor­gia are 114 delegates to the GOP National Convention this July and 208 Democratic con­vention delegates. 
George Bush, seemin~ly more concerned about keepmg former President Gerald R. Ford out of the GOP race, says he'd settle for a "respectable" showing against Reagan. ''E­verybody assumes that all three of these states are strong Reagan states, and I know that," Bush said. 
The only other major Repub­licancandtdate,John B. Ander­sen, has no campaign organiza­tion in the three states and does not even appear on the Alaba­ma ballot. He chose instead to 
concentrate  on  the  March  18  
primary in his  home  state  of  
Illinois.  

Reagan was the man to beat in Alabama and Georgia, where he beat Ford by large margins in 1976. In Florida, where he narrowly lost to Ford four years ago, the former California gov­ernor held a coinfortable lead over Bush in the latest polls. 
The polls were taken before Connally dropped out Sunday, the day after he was thrashed by Reagan, 54 percent to 30 percent, in the South Carolina primary. 



Khomeini 

frustrates comnusston 
(AP) Iranian leader Ayatollah Ruhol1ah Khomeini set tough new conditions yesterday for any meeting of a U.N. investi­~ating commission with Amer­Ican hostages in Tehran and the commission decided to leave Iran without seeing any of the Americans. 
U.N. Secretary-General Kurt W aldheim issued a statement last night at U.N. headquarters in New York saying the com­mission had suspended its work in Tehran but was prepared to return after consultations in New York. 
Iran's ruling Revolutionary Council, reacting to Khomeini's vow to "fight against the U.S. government until death,'' backed off its demand to take custody of approximately 50 Americans, who yesterday spent their 128th day as prison­ers of Moslem militants occupy­ing the U.S. Embassy. 
Iranian Foreign Minister Sadegh Ghotbzadeh met with the five U.N. commissioners for four hours in an unsuccessful effort to persuade them to extend their stay. He told reporters early today the com­missioners, who arrived in Teh­ran Feb. 23, would leave later .in the morning. ''They have been here for 17 days and they couldn't stay any longer," he said. 
The commissioners had been on the verge of leaving last week, but were persuaded to ,stay after it appeared a week­'end meeting with the hostages was possible. 
W aldheim' s statement said the commission, "in the light of .recent developments and after consulting wtth the secretary ~general and Iranian authorities, has decided that it should ~suspend its activities for several 'days." 
It said the commission ts not now in a position to submit its re_port. It is, however, pre­pared to return to Tehran in accordance with its mandate and the instructions of the secretary general. when the situation requires.'' 






News in brief 
Tuesday, March 11, 1980 -page 2 
'Bushed' after weekend

Jews and Carterites swap, 
Mock delegates end Convention
punches in Florida slugfest 
MIAMI (AP)-Seven chanting members of the militant Jewish Defense League swarmed into a campaign office for President Carter yesterday-one day before the Florida primary-and swapped punches with staffers in a protest over the administration's Middle East policy. Th<-re were no arrests and no serious injuries in the mcident, police said. 

Moolah experts testify that 
price controls won 't help 
. WASHINGTON (AP)-Six men who served as chief economic advisors to President Carter's four most recent predecessors testified yesterday that mandatory government controls on wages and prices are not the solution for today's inflation. Herbert Stein, chairman of the Council of Economic Advisors durin~ the Nixon administration--when controls were last used--sa1d: ''Anyone who is old enough to have lived through the experience of 1971-74 and still believe§ in controls is beyond my powers of persuasion.'' 

Bogus health inspector turns chicken, returns stolen loot 
TUCSON, Ariz. (AP)-When is a robbery not a robbery? When the holdup man returns the money. That's no joke, except perhaps to the holdup man, Tucson police say. A man walked into a north side convenience market about 2:30a.m. Monday, said he was a health insJ>ector and then demanded money, implying he had a gun, officers said. The clerk gavt: him $78 from two cash registers and the man left. But he turned around moments later, handed the money back to. the startled clerk, and said, "It was only a joke. Be cooL" He rhen fled. 
Jury deliberates in Ford reckless homicide trial 
WINAMAC, (AP) --The jury in Ford Motor Co.'s reckless homicide trial began deliberating yesterday whether the carmaker was responsible for the burning deaths of three teenagers in a Pinto crash. It was the first criminal prosecutionof a U.S. corporation in a product liability case. The Jury got the case in early afternoon after 4 5 minutes of instructions from Judge Harold R. Staffeldt, who reread the indictment for the jurors. 

Weather 
Mostly sunny and cold with highs in the upper 20s. Fair this evening with increasing cloudiness late tomght. Lows in the low 20s. A chance of snow or rain tomorrow with highs in rhe low to mid 30s. 


CaniJi_U_s------j 
noon TALK "the exhibition of janos scholz," dr. jean porter, 
n.d. spons. by art gallery ART GAllERY. 
1-3 pm EXHIBITION "artworks" univ. n. kentucky ISIS GAllERY 
4:30 SEMINAR "evolution & genetic variation in aedes aeguptii," dr. walter j. tabachnick yale u., GALVIN AUD. 
6 pm MEETING i.s.o., Iafortune BASEMENT 
7 pm MEETING anthro. meet your major, spons. by dept. of anthropology 220 O'SHAG. 
7:30 pm DISCUSSION "living in harmony with the cycle" janet & bill bettcher, natural family planning program of st. joe county, sponsored by soc. dept. 203 O'SHAG. 
7: 30 pm LECTURE ''le corbusier, meaning and morpho­logies" prof. steve hurtt spons. by tan sigma delta architectural honor soc. ARCH. AUD. 
8 pm TALK "n.d. women and their macho men", sr. jean lenz, rectress farley hall, GRACE HAll PIT. 
8 pm SOPHOMORE LITERARY FEST. jayne anne phillips, short story writer, MEM. LIB. AUD. 
8 pm POETRY READING gwendolyn brooks, spons. by women's opportunity week, STAPLETON LOUNGE, SMC. 
10 pm LENTEN PENANCE SERVICE confessions following, SACRED HEART CHURCH 
by Mz'chael Mader StaffReporter 

While the delegates in the Mock Republican Convention, held this weekend, attempt to catch up on the sleep they lost, George Bush, the candidate selected in the convention as the Republican nominee, will attempt to catch Ronald Reagan in Illinois armed with the support given him by Notre Dame students. 
''The Bush people in Illinois are already using the results from Notre Dame to show that Bush has a base with young people,'' Bill Kresse, Mock Convention chariman, said last night. 
The Mock Convention was an attempt to simulate the political process that will occur at both the Democratic and Republican conventions this year. The convention tried to keep close to the rules of the national conven­tions and to obtain delegates for each state that actually lived in their respective states according to Kresse. "Many states did vote the way their states would," Kresse said. 
Banquet honors two trustees 
Two women trustees of the University will be honored at the spring initiation banquet of Beta Gamma Sigma, honorary society for students in business administration, at 7 p.m. tonight in the Monogram Room of the Athletic and Convocation Center. 
The Observer 
Nzf,ht Editor: Ryan ''Legion­natre" Ver Berkmoes 
Asst. Night' Editor: 
"Dr. Death" Holden, Cindy Kliros Copy Editor: Tom Jackman Layout Staff' Neil time, Cindy, try to be a bit more subtle'' O'Brien 
Kathy Vick 
News Editor: Mike Shields Sports Layout: Tom Schu­ster Typists: Mary Beth Budd, Kate Huffman, Zelda Ray, Scoop Sullivan 
EMT: Liz Huber Proofreader: Sal Granata ND Day Editor: Lisa Stan­czak SMC Day Editor: Cece Baliles Photographer: Greg Maurer Guest Appearances: Dave "Desperado" Wemhoff, 
Kate Kilkulskie, Steve "Midnight rambler" Swonk 
The Obsei'Yir [USPS -9211] Is 
published Monday tllraugh Friday 11­cept during 111m 11111 VICitilll ....... The Observer 11 publilllld br 1111 ltudents rrl Nlltrl D... IMI Slillt Miry's Cllllgl. Sublcrtpllllll 1111J be Jlllrclllllcl fir S2ll per yar 11• IIIII' ......ttrl 11'1111 The Observer. .-.o. blx a. IMIR b1me,llldll111 4115111. s... elisa ':r Plkl; Nllrl Dime, llt­dillll 
0 
The Observer ir 1 IMIIIIIIr II till Asrlcl1tld . Prill. All 1tplllllctllft rlgllts lrl rlllmll. 

Because only Republicans are allowed at the national convention and all factions are invited to the Mock, the con­vention this weekend could not be called truly representative, however. 
''The difference was mainly in the population we drew from, that of young people," Kresse commented. Kresse further reasoned that Reagan will be much stronger in Detroit, since only Republicans are allowed. ''There will be a more conser­vative air. Still, the results may be quite the same," Kresse said. 
The results of the Mock Convention have been sent to the news media., and Bush was notified by telephone. The Rupublican National Commit;..., tee and William Simon, th·e individual voted to be Bush's running mate, were each noti­fied by letter about the out­come. 
Problems the convention had involved scheduling of speak­ers, the platform, and keeping a quorum on Wednesday and Thursday nights. Cost was not a problem, according to Kresse, as the convention stayed within budget. 
Scheduling of the actual can­didates as speakers was difficult, Kresse noted, but he ''was quite pleased with the speakers we received." Since the Indiana primary is not until Mary 6, it was not feasible for the candidates to make person­al appearances, Kresse said. 
The Convention is still at­tempting to schedule the candi­dates for visits later on in the year. Bush has indicated he may show up, especially after receiving the support of Notre Dame delegates, according to 
Women'sQpportunityWeek presents Gwendolyn Brooks: A Reading in Poetry 
Tues. March 11 8pm Stapleton Lounge 

Kresse. John Anderson has 
done a great deal of campus 
campaigning and Ronald Rea­
gan visited this campus four 
years ago, added Kresse, indi­
cating the probability was good 
that each would appear. 
On the Democratic side, Ted 
Kennedy and Jimmy Carter 
have been given invitations to 
aypear, but Kresse is not aware 
o their situations at the mo­ment. 
Concerning the platform rati­
fication process, Kresse ack­
nowledged that ''there was not 
enough time for the people to 
speak on the issues. I think that 
is unfortunate." 
The convention received many telegrams from candi­dates and the Republican Na­tional Committee pointing out that ''there are only a few truly national universities and of these, most don't have mock conventions, at least not as large," Kresse said. Kresse felt that the delegates were representative ofthe nation as a whole, even when it came down to voting for rock stars Billy 
Joel, Bruce Springsteen and others. 
"On the first ballot of the presidential nomination, it is a tradition to name favorite sons," Kresse explained. 
The near nomination of the Cookie Monster as Bush's run­ning mate was not felt repre­sentative however. ''Everyone was quite tired and in a good mood. The states had already determined they would change their votes before the balloting was over. They were just being silly, " Kresse said. 
Friday night, before debate started, Kresse called the state 
[continued on page 5] 
rhe Observer Tuesday, March 11, 1980 -page 3 



Shamir becomes Foieign Minister 
JERUSALEM (AP)-Yitzhak future of the occupied West Palestinians under an autono­Shamir, a conservative who Bank of the]ordan River. my plan being ne~otiated with opposed the peace treaty with 
Egypt and the Umted States.
Begin, who had been acting 

During debate in Parliament, Egypt, became Foreign Minis­
as foreign minister, said he was 

ter of Israel yesterday. The the opposition strongly criticiz­
confident Shamir would faith­

ed Shamir and Begin's foreign appointment strengthened the 
fully represent the govern­

hawkish government faction policy.
ment's policy, even though 

''The appointment announc­that has resisted concessions on 
Shamir opposed the peace trea­

ed by the prime minister is oneself-rute for Palestinians. 
ty with Egypt signed one year 

of the most extreme demonstra­Prime Minister Menachem ago. tions of this government'sBegin defended his choice for Earlier yesterday, Begin won strangeness, its illosic and its one of the three most influential 
his Cabinet's unanimous ap­bewilderment,'' satd Moshepositions in the Cabinet. "I am proval for the appointment at a. Shahal of the opposition Laborproud of this nomination, I am brief special session after Sha­Party.
convinced he will succeed in his 
mir formally resigned as speak­

It was unreasonable to expect task for the good of our peo­er of Parliament. 
that a man who refused tople," Begin said. 
Shamir, 65, held a neutral support the peace treaty with 
Parliament approved the ap­position as Parliament speaker Egypt last year will carry out a pointment 55-39. Three mem­and has remained silent on policy in which he does not bers abstained, including Mo­topical issues. He is known to believe, Shahal said. she Dayan who left the post five support ] ewish settlement in Shamir was defended by
months ago in disagreement the occupied West Bank in Amnon Linn, who had opposed 
over Begm's policy on the granting few powers to the the Camp David peace accords. Despite his earlier opposition, Linn said: "I am ready to do
'Everything burning' everything to see that the peace 
treaty is not jeopardized.'' Shamir, too, "can conduct a
Afghani recqunts invasion 

policy to strengthen the peace.'' · 
KHAR, PAKISTAN (AP) der, he said small Pakistani The appointment came as When Abdel ·wahid fled the trucks operated an impromptu Israel's relations with the Unit­Soviet tanks and planes pound­taxi service to the refugee ed States and Europe dipped to ing his native Afghan village camps 15 miles away. They a low point. The United States "everything was burning. No­charged the refugees an aver­voted earlier this month for a body was left to bury the age of $212 per family even U.N. Security Council resolu­dead." though as many as 30 refugees tion calling on Israel to disman­
The "terrible journey" came were crowded into each truck. tle its settlements in occupied next. territories, including the an­
The new refugees join thou­

The farmer was among hun­nexed sector ofJerusalem.
sands ofother Afghans livin~ in

dreds of shivering, hungry refu­tent camps in the Bajaur tnbal President Carter's later apol­gees, most of them women and district of Pakistan. Inter­ogy that the vote was a mistakechildren in poor condition, who national relief officials say near­failed to allay concerns thatreached safety in Pakistan ly 700,000 Afghan refugees are Washington was shifting itsyesterday after a five-day trek now living in Pakistan. support away from Israel.
through the snow-covered mountains of eastern Afghani­stan. 
Many of the children wept as 
Colombianspledgepeaceful
icy rain fell on the tent camp that will serve as their new home. 

endto hostage crisis 
W ahid said the refugees fled to this tribal area, 100 miles BOGOTA, Colombia (AP)-. among the approximately twonorth of Peshawar, after Soviet Colombia's government pledg­dozen hostages at the embassy. 
occupation troops, backed by 
planes, helicopters and guns, ed not to use force to end the Names of West German or 
Dutch diplomats have not ap­launched a massive anti-guer­occupation of the Dominican peared on lists of captives.
rilla offensive in Afghanistan's Republic Embassy if the lives of 
adjoining Konar Province. the ho!'tages there were not in The guerrillas stormed the 
He said fleeing refugees hid danger, but they appeared yes­embassy during a diplomatic out during the day, moving only terday to be laying the ground­reception Feb. 27. Their cap­at night to avoid Soviet troops. work for an attack if one were tives include 14 ambassadors or 
deemed necessary.

Once they reached the bor-acting ambassadors. 
Yesterday afternoon the van On Sunday, Colombians vot­that has been used in past ed in municipal and national negotiating sessions between elections that Zea Hernandez the government and hostages had said "Constituted a demo­
drove to the usual site and talks cratic reply to terrorism and were expected to begin. A violence. ' ' Foreign Ministry source had said The elections had been re­
.. .Hare 

[continued from page 1] 
the fourth round was set for no garded as having little national 
Hare reiterated that English later than today. significance, but after the em­plays encompass vivid social Streets that had been open bassy seizure President Julio reality. An artist in En~land, he near the embassy were closed Cesar Turbay Hyala asked his explained, feels that h1s work is off over the weekend. Two people to vote as a demonstra­the center of culture and that American television networks tion of support for democracy. 
ideals are constantly being and The Associated Press, who re-shaped through a.r;-t had rented temporarily aban­mediums. 
doned apartments in the area, Hare concluded his 35-min­were ordered by police to be out 
MeetYour cfJ-4, 
ute talk with appropriate words by yesterday morning. of wisdom. "Remember, Notre Troop movement and secur­
Major 0-v 

Dame is one of the ghettos that ity measures were noticeably houses art. When you get out of 
greater. 
0~ 

here, inject what you know and There were persistent but feel about art into the ma.in 
unconfirmed reports here that bloodstream," he said. 
crack anti-terrorist units from 


f...~ Tuesday 

The festival will continue the United States, Israel, West with the appearance of con­Germany and the Netherlands 
.f Marchll temporary novelist Jayne Anne are in Bogota. U.S. Ambassa­Phillips tonisht at 8 p.m. in the 
dor Diego Asencial and Israel's 



2200'Shag
Ambassador Eliahu Barak are

Library Auditorium. 

Secure in the knowledge that The Observer photographer has no detex, Walsh residents feel free to dende. [photo by Greg Maurer] 
.1 
~~· p 
. PREPARE FOR: ~~~ 
MCAT •DIT•LSIT ·&MAT IRE· IRE PSYCH ·IJRE BIO PCIT•OCAT•VAT •Mill'· SAT liMB1.n.m·ECFMO•FLEM•voE 
NDB I, D • NPB I • riLE 
Flexible Programs & Hl Jra 
Visit Any Center And See For Yourself Why We Make The Dltterence 
l~-H.MPUIN 
EDUCATIONAL CENTER
291-3150 

TEST P~EPA~ATION SPECI/ILISTS SINCE 1938 · 
Outside N.Y. State Only CALL TOLL FREE: 800·223·1782 
Centers In More TMan 80 Major US Cities Puerto Rico~ .T•ron!tJ, Canada & Lugano Switzerland 


ATTENTION SCIENCE AND ENGINEERING MAJORS! 
The Air Fore ' Sunday Interior Minister ,gin selected scieno German Zea Hernandez 'said ~ce. 
General and El , , om· puler Technolo The government has offered, To help prep and thereby pledged the na-and four·year progr; tion' s word of honor that there l"ne coAsIfst. 1 1 will be no measure ' of force d 
ercompe h'l h . f h h ra · 
uation, you'll be W 1 e t e 1tves o t e ostages 11es responsibility, e are not threaten.ed." -·-·,:>eo· pie and facilities in the world, and a mission with a purpose. You11 get excellent starting salary, medical and dental care, 30 days of paid va· cation beginning your first year, and more. Look into the Air Force ROTC program tight away. See what's in it for you. See how you can serve your country in return. You11 be glad you put vour major to work on a job that reallv counts. 

For additional' information call CPT Davis at 283-6634 
0 





HOTC 


administration of either institution. 
Editorial Board and Department Managers 
The news is reported as accurately and 



-The Observer._ 
as objectively as possible. Editorials Editor-in-chief ....... .Rosemary Mills Sports Editor .................. Mark Perry represent the opimon of a majority of Managing Editor.......... Diane Wilson Features Editor ... .. Kathleen Connelly Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 the Editorial Board. Commentaries, Editori~ Editor .............. Ann Gales Photo Editor ............. .Doug Christian opinions and letters are the views of Senior Copy Editor.........M. Onufrak 
The Observer is an independent their authors. Column space is avail­Executive News Editor ...... Mike Lewis Business Manager ........Steve Odland newspaper published by the students able to all members of the community, News Editor....................Mark Rust Production Manager .... \John McGrath ofthe University of Notre Dame du lac and the free expression of varying News Editor .. ............... Mike Shields Advertising Manager .... ;M. Holsinger and Saint Mary's College. It does not opinions on campus, through letters, is SMC News Editor ........ Margie Brassil Controller..................Kevin Manion necessarily reflect the policies of the encouraged. Circulation Manager ..... .Greg Hedges 
---------~---­

The Observer Tuesday, March 11, 1980 -page 4 






BUDWEISER 
2/$1.00
********************************* 
-SIGN UP NOW FOR CORBY'S­-ARMWRESTLING TOURNAMENT­
ENGINEERS 
Gulf Oil Corporation, a major energy company, has job openings for all types of graduating engineers who are Interested in building a career in crude oil and gas producing operations. 
Duties include drilling, equipment installation ·and maintenance, subsurface reservoir -studies, 
economic evaluation of producing properties, well 
stimulation and reconditioning, and enhanced oil 
recovery operations. 

Individual development courses will be provided, including outstanding oil and drilling instruction. Positions are located in Gulf Coast, Mid-Continent, Rocky Mountain, and West Coast areas. Excellent employee benefits. 
Applicant must be U.S. citizen or hold a 
permanent resident visa. 

Please send resume and transcript to: 
~  J. R. Ligon, Jr.  
Gulf.  GULF OIL EXPLORATION I PRODUCTION COMPANY Sec. E. P.O. Drawer 2100  
~  Houston, TX 77001  

An Equal Opportunity Employer MIF 
In AugustaHall 


SMC considers ''0-C'' life 
by Toni Aantoos 
As the date for fall room {licks approaches , 
many upcoming seniors and Juniors an:: consi­
dering the advantages of "off-campus life on 
campus" in Augusta Hall at Samt Mary's 
College. 
Augusta Hall is a self-governing dormitory. The residents still must abide by all the college policies, but there is no one to supervise or check up on the students. The girls are on their honor to conduct themselves as responsible, respec­table adults. 
The building itself belongs to the Sisters of 
Holy Cross, but they generously allowed half of 
the building to serve as housing for about 65 
SMC students. The unique housing format 
began seven years ago as an experiment. 
Sister Karol Jackowski, director of Residence 
Life at SMC. explained that Augusta was started 
''to offer an alternative small group atmosphere 
for students who are 21.'' Only seniors were 
permitted to live in Augusta in the begmning, 
due more to lottery than by design. 
The wide banistered stairways and floors of 
polished hardwood, the marble statues and the 
ringing of the convent bells all eloquently 
express the tradition and history that is deeply 
rooted in Augusta's past and present. Augusta 
Hall was originally a home for novice nuns; thus, 
the building is revered by many of the nuns. 
All the incoming girls at Augusta are told of its {last, and they respect it. Mary Kay Fabian, a juntor presently livmg in Augusta Hall said ''we respect their (the nuns') wishes.'' She also expressed a sentiment of unity that grows out of the history of Augusta and the presence of nuns living on the same floor: "We're here for a different purpose (than the nuns) but still we share a common goal--to make the best of ourselves.'' 
When describing the living environment at Augusta, many occupants use phrases like "more independence," "keep an eye on each other," and "more relaxed." Verbalizing the keynote of self-governance, Fabian said, "If they (other students) are not being rowdy, it's their own business what they're doing." 
Mary Beth Connor, the R.A. 9f Augusta, expounded on the individual governing of one's actions in the dorm. "If there are any complaints or problems, the girls handle them among themselves." Even Connor's position is testimony to the independence of Augusta residents, for she is not an R.A. in the usual sense of .P.lanning functions for sections, etc. She descnbed her job ''more like a Hall director or a liason between the administration and the students." 
Hall Council President Sue Turcotte explained the different ways that the students' indepen­dence manifests itself: ''Some people think 'self-~overning' means no parietals and guys sleeptng over all the time. But it is not like that at all. The students' purposes for living here are different--they run in trends. Some students are the party type while others are more studious; it just depends on what you want.'' Karol explained this mixture of students by stating, "Augusta attracts the most responsible and the least responsible students.'' 
A semor currently living in Augusta, Rose Adler, experienced the independence and the structure of life in Augusta as very positive and unifying. "The atmosphere is much more relaxed,'' she stated. Adler also spoke ofa unity unknown to other dorms that is created by the fact that all but a few residents are seniors. "It's a lot more fun, more senior activities, you hear about more senior events. You are all going through the same things like trying to find a job, senior comps--you all understand the same things," Adler said. 
Expressing other advantages to Augusta life, Adler listed the larger-sized rooms, much more frequent and thorough maid service, more lounges and study rooms, and less students. 
The requirements to live in Augusta are that 
one must. be a junior or older, attend three 
mandatory meetings each year, and also get a 
good lottery number. However, a low lottery 
number does not always guarantee a room 
because the actual choosing is done first by 
class, then by loqery number. 
Conner described the chances of getting into 
Augusta as competitive. The purpose of the 
three meetings is twofold; first, to explain the 
responsibility required at Augusta and second to 
act as a self-eliminating process(because if one 
meeting is missed the student must choose with 
the last group and if two meetings are missed, 
the student can not qualify to live in Augusta. 
Turcotte echoed many students sentiments 
when she said, "It is a shame more dorms aren't 
like this." But Karol contends that "self-gover­
ning is a hard thing among peers to do.'' 
Self-governing works when students are not 
inhibited to stand up for their rights, but Karol 
adds, "it's hard for students to learn to assert 
themselves because they must live together." 
Thus, implying that students fear ''to rock the 
boat" by complaining. Quick to clarify, Karol 
added "Self governing is often thought by 
students as not rules, but this is not what is 
intended at Augusta; in fact, Augusta must 
follow all the rules as the other dorms.'' 
She did, however, admit to the liklihood of 
male guests staying all night. "We (at other 
dorms) make special exceptions to rules some­
times, I think Augusta does too, but how careful 
they are in making them, I don't know. That is a 
maJor criticism of Augusta life.'' 
The laxity of making exceptions stems from 
the sentiment Karol professes is a general 
occurence among Augusta residents: ''I think 
the biggest problem is the girls feel if something 
doesn't bother anyone, then it is not a 
violation." Karol, however, is pleased with the 
progress that Augusta's lifestyle has made, for 
"every year it is working better and better." 
Yet she also sees the shortcomings and stated, 
"Augusta Hall by no means is a model dorm." 
While believing Augusta is a "real healthy and good growing experience" for students, Karol does not see it feasible to expand Augusta's philosophy to other whole dorms. She professed, ''with larger groups accountabili­ty and anonymity diminish.'' 
Also, with more students the one-to-one basis used in Augusta would be impo·ssible "from a practical viewpoint there would be no one to take phone messages, maintenance req_uests, plan activities, etc. Mary Beth Conner ts swamped with this at Augusta and that's for only 65 students. You've got to have a landlady; our residences are not hotels,'' she concluded. 
Karol also stated that many drawbacks would occur if Augusta's philosophy was expanded on a large scale. She maintains that restricting visitation on floors preserves a sense of privacy community and safety; thus, open visitation would compromise the "homey atmosphere" that Karol believes is wanted by the majority of the students. · 
Karol believes that parietals are such a major issue because of limited space to entertain guests and not because students want an open visitation policy. 
Yet, Karol thinks it would be worthwhile to try to imitate the policy of Augusta Hall on a part basis, for example a section in McCandless or a floor in Regina. When presenting her ideas to students, she is met with positive comments. 
However, Karol feels there is a major lack of student participation on the subject of alterna­tive housing; thus, she is waiting for more student imput before initiating any plans. She explains her hesitation in doing anything further 
interpreting the students' silence as apathy to the idea, and she does not want to force anything on the students, rather hoping that it be the students' choice. 
...Oass elections 
[continued from page 1J 
of Alumni with 41 of the 49 votes cast; Mike Brady captured all 34 votes cast in his hall, Carroll, while1 Rob Verfurth and Mike Burton divided Grace Hall between themselves, Burton winning 58 to 36. 
In the closest of the three races, the Freshman class turned out 76.1 percent of their eligible voters, yet the ticket which collected the fewest number of halls made it into the run-off. The Bill Hennessey ticke~ won only four halls compared to Modesto Ruggiero's total of eight, but Hennessey's overwhelming victories in Alumni and Pangborn Halls, home of Hennessey and his secretary candidate Tom O'Brien, will put them on tomorrow's ballot. 
Off-campus voting was light yesterday, with only six sorhomores and 24 juniors casting ballots. Cal noted that 0-C students may vote tomorrow from 11 a.m. until 2 p.m. in the Tom Dooly Room in La Fortune. 
On campus balloting will again take place in the residence halls during the lunch and dinner periods. 
I ­
~­
The Observer Tuesday, March 11, 1980 -page 5 
Inone-woman show 
Hawfield creates Dorothy Parker 
by Margie Brassil 
SMC News Editor 

Diane Hawfield captured the wit, cynicism, and social satire of author Dorothy Parker in her one-woman play last night in the Regina auditorium. The play, entitled appropriately e­nough Dorothy Parker, was created by Hawfield using some of Parker's lighter poetry, es­says and monologues. 
"I didn't originally intend to be Dorothy Parker. What I wanted was a string of mono­logues, but it evolved into this," explained Hawfield. Hawfield whittled down Par­ker's seven volumes of poetry and numerous monologues and articles to come up with a sequence of 19 pieces that showed Parker's own progres­sion in life from a young woman to a woman in old age. 
"Parker was a very difficult 
p"erson who seemed to have an 
mability to be content. She was 
constantly restless," Hawfield 
said. Her discontent with the 
society of the 1920's, the period 
in which most of her famous 
work was done, was reflected in the monologues. 
"The Waltz" particularly demonstrated thLs, showing one woman's contempt for the so­cial rituals· of accepting dances because it would be rude to refuse. 
According to Hawfield, Par­ker was a mistress of the monologue, a style which is most conducive to the stage. 
Several of the poems Haw-field used concerned Parker's attempts at suicide. Others contained her stand on femi­nism. "She makes feminist statements of the 1920's that are not really the same as today," said Hawfield. 
"I thought it was funny," explained Hawfield when asked why she chose Parker's works during the question and answer session after the play. "I liked her short stories. Her sass and rythym appealed to me as an actress." 
The idea for the play came when Hawfield, an assistant professor m the Speech and Drama Department, helf>ed a student prepare one of the monologues for a class. She had been preparing the piece 
========================== 
NDfreshmen turn towards ''middle-of-the-road'' 
Notre Dame freshmen are following a national trend to­ward political moderation on the part of incoming college students, according to an American Council on Education survey. 
Between 1972 and last fall, the percentage of Notre Dame freshman identifying them­selves as ''liberal'' fell 11 points from 35 per cent to 24 per cent, while the percentage of those considerin~ themselves ''conservative'' Increased 8 points from 17 per cent to 25 per cent. The "middle-of-the­road'' group remained relative­ly COf?-Stant, going from 45 p~r cent m 1972 to 49 per cent 10 1979. 
In the national freshmen 
group, the only difference over 
the same period was that the 
''middle-of-the-road'' category 
In the national freshmen 
group, the only difference over 
the same period w.as that the 
12-point loss suffered in the 
"liberal" column shifted more 
into the "middle-of-the-road" 
category than into the "conser­
vative" ranks. When compared 
to entering students at other 
highly selective private univer­
sities, Notre Dame freshmen 
are again more moderate in 
political orientation, with 75 per 
cent "middle-of-the-road" or 
literary Festival continues 
The Sot;>homore Literary Fes­tival contmues today With two events: a workshop with David Hare and a reading by Jayne Anne Phillips. Hare will gi':e his workshop at 1· p.m. thLs afternoon in the Library Lounge and Phillips will conduc.t her reading tonight at 8 p.m. 10 the Library Auditorium. All stu­dents are cordially invited to 
attend. 
"conservative," compared to 64 per cent at peer universities. 
Compared to all entering freshmen, Notre Dame first­year students show the same trends toward materialism and career success and away from political involvement, social amelioration, and personal growth, but at less pronounced rates. For example, between 1972 and 1979 the percentage of Notre Dame freshmen endors­ing financial success an an essential or very important objective increased from 45 to 55 per cent, while nationally the increase was from 38 to 63 per cent. 
At the same time the per­centage viewing the develop­ment of a philosophy of life as essential or very important slipped from 78 to 69 per cent among Notre Dame freshmen but from 75 to 57 per cent among all freshmen. 
The major attitudinal differ­ences between Notre Dame freshmen and those of other private, highly selective institu­tions arise on moral issues. 
... Mock 

[continued from page 2] 
chairmen together to set up a course of action to expedite the platform debates which had bogged down Thursday ni~ht. 
"It was one of those political back-room stories, quite dra­matic. The state chairmen showed an uncommon quality of common sense. To me, it was one of the highlights of the convention," Kresse said. 
"Also, the delegates were fantastic. To have that many stick around until 5:30 in the morning to hear the results and then show up again at 2 p.m. the next day was just great,'' Kresse added. Kresse also noted that ''a nice part about the whole convention was that people had fun, expecially since 1t was not a party, but a political process.'' 
during the past two years and fmally edited it together for Women's Opportunity Week. Hawfield was assisted by her husband, Michael, and Cathy Hurst, a senior at Saint Mary's who directed the play. 
"It was great fun. Working with an imaginative actress who happens to also be my teacher is great experience," commen­ted Hurst after the showing. "This was her personal endea­vor." 
Hawfield said she plans to 
. eventually lengthen the play to two hours using some of Par­ker's more serious pieces. "Most ofher stuff is too long to use in a play. The editing was a matter of pulling out the ones that would hang together. You get so attached to some of the material that you don't want to cut it out,'' she explained about her work on the play. The set was sunply confined to what was needed for each of the pieces. "The Little Hours" required a bed which became the main stage, while "The Waltz" needed a larger open space with a table for a prop. Since the play was only one act, Hawfield showed the au­
thor's aging by adding a fancy dinner jacket or a shawl. Most of the progression was estab­lished through Hawfield's ac­ting, however. 
Dorothy Parker was the se­cond presentation for Women's Opportunity Week, sponsored by Student Government. Poet Gwendolyn Brooks will speak tonight at 8 p.m. in Stapleton Lounge. 


A refurbished LaFortune is just around the corner. Meantime students best avoid the clutter. [photo by Greg Maurer] 
..--·SMCORIENTATION '8:011___ 
Applications are now being accepted for: 
• 
Assistant Chairman • Social Chairman 

• 
Publicity Chairman • Off-Campus Chairman 

• 
Tours Chairman • Tr<insfer Chairman 

• 
Big Sister{little Sister Chairman • General Committee t' 'I bl . h S d Ac . . . Off' Workers


AppI.1ca 1ons ava1 a e m t e tu ent t1v1t1es ICe 166 LeMans Deadline-Tuesday March 18,1980 IApplications will not be accepted after this date. 
SACD~r 




lUESOAX MARCH II
[I()M . 

----------------~-------~---------------­
The Observer Tuesday, March 11, 1980 -page 6 
Molarity 


Doonesbury 


IT'S /IlL 50 CXC!T!N6, ZEKe! f£TS 60 ()VCR 
ANO 7EI..L MOTHeR 



The Daily Crossword 

All Rights Reserved 
' 

lJREAKTIME DIRECT O'HARE. 
$15 EXPRESS $15 
from NOTRE DAME CIRCLE depart 4pm arrive~ 5:30pm
March27 

lOam 11:30 am


March28' 

lpm 2:30pm 




283-7080 

INOIANA MD I On aus 
by Michael Molinelli 



by Garry Trudeau 
YOliR EJCC/11/SC 7HIS'/.J.. 
MUTH&R? 5iWHeR. 7H/fT WHAT flR, lA/& !<tALLY PO MAN~ HA~ A R/TVRE. 


ACROSS  26  Family of  41  Home of  12  Wimbledon  
1 Offspring  a tennis  Lamaism  name  
4  Founded: abbr.  30  champ Flat wagon  42  Mosul's land: var.  14 15  Vocalizes Certain  
7  Seethe  31  Ballet  43  Snakes  drinks  
11 13  A Waugh Foolish  32  leaps Stowe  44  Seven-time US champ  20  Kind of bean  
chatter  heroine  51  Without aid  21  Kind of  
15  Puccini  33  Pierre's  52  Turndowns  beam  
opera  friends  53  A Charles  24  River in  
16  Tropical  34  Conduit  54  Body organ  France  
plant  35  Onetime  55  Auction  25  Musical  
17  General ofWWI  boxing champ  56  word Easy task  26  chord Salamanders  
18  Synthetic  36  "-stranger  57  Sensible  27  Tennis  
fabric  in Para­ 58  AMA mem­ weapon  
19  Wimbledon  dise"  bers  28  Wimbledon  
champ  37  -Unis  59  Morning  narne  
22  Cole et al.  38  Book: Fr.  times  29  Quien­ 
23  Nose: pref.  39  Subjects  30  Lion's home  
24  Betty of  for bucolic  DOWN  31  Billie- 
Wimbledon  painters  1 Cloy  34  Man or vote  
Monday's Results  2 King of Norway 3 Wolfe the  35 37  Althea's parents Merited  

 sleuth  38  O'Fiaherty  
4  Worn out  40  Swiss lake  

 5 Plods per­severingly 6 Mexican food 7 Cesare or Lucrezia 8 European capital 9 Religious image 10 Human speech:  41 43 44 45 46 47 48 49 50  Prepares a salad Mix Crones A Logan Bank trans­action Weaving machine A Chaplin 1/8 ounce Shrill  
3111180  abbr.  barks  




Congratulations 
1The Destroyer' 165/b.BengaiChamp Flynn 
We knef_!J you could do it, andyou did!! 
Flynn Brothers & Sisters, If!c. 
.. . Iowa 
[continued from page 8] 
Burger closed in third and was 
clocked at 4:18.5. 

The pole vault competition also played a .Prominent part in the Irish sconng as Perry Stow captured first place with a 15-6 vault. Freshman Steve Chronert cleared 14 feet to grab second place. 
The meet came down to two events, the mile relay and the triple jump; the Irish led 60-57. 
For awhile it looked like the Irish victory was sealed as Dziabis and Eady had the Irish in the lead after two legs of the mile relay with Aragon and Christian waiting to run. Aragon had just received the exchanged and was going around a curve when the third Iowa runner Craig Stanowski appeared to bump him. Aragon stumbled and nearly fell; he maintained his balance but not before Stanowski had bolted into a substantial lead. Both Aragon and Christian regained part of the valuable time but they fell two seconds short as Iowa finished in 3:22.40. 
When asked whether or not he thought he had been fouled, Aragon replied, "I thought so, but there was no curve judge so it doesn't matter. He (Stanowski) thought he had room to pass me on the inside. I wasn't about to give up my position; we bumped arms all the way around the curve. Afterwards, he said he was sorry, so he must of thought he pulled something." 
The loss in the mile relay vaulted Iowa into the lead at 62-60, thus setting the sta~e for Kazimi's and McAultffe's heroics. 
The Irish send the two-mile relay team and Steve Dziabis to next weekend's NCAA Indoor Championships in Detroit, before opening the outdoor season on March 29. 



Erratum 

The Observer incorrectly re­ported yesterday that this weekend's college hockey play­off series between Notre Dame and North Dakota would be broadcast locally by WSND­AM. The story should have stated that the games will be carried live from Grand Forks by WNDU-AM (1500) with)eff 
Jeffers and Brian Beglane. Faceoff both nights will be at 8:30p.m. The Observer regrets the error. 
ERA leader 

to conduct 

NDmeeting-
The ND Women's Oq~aniza­tion will sponsor a visit from Martina Meyers, an ERA or­ganizer from the National Or­ganization for Women (NOW) Tuesday, March 11. 
Meyers will hold an ERA educational meeting and stra­tegy session at 7:00p.m. in the LaFortune basement. She will also speak to several classes and a meeting of Committee "W" about the ERA. 
Meyers is part of a national grass roots network of ERA supporters across the country working to ensure ratification of the amendment. 
For information contact Renee, 3848. 
The Observer Tuesday, March 11, 1980 -page7 
Sports Briefs._ ___, • • • Basketball 
[continued from page 8)



Wrestling tourney begins 
game while totaling at least 20 points in his last eight contests. 
· The Interhall Wrestling Tournament will be held on ] ackson shared the Rebound­Wednesday, Thursday, and Saturday. All panicipants are ing Award with Woolridge -­requested to weigh in at the Interhall Office between 12:30 and also received the Clutchand 4:30 today. 
Player of the Year Award. His outstanding all-around play ~ulled a number of games out 
of the fire for the Irish, most notably the Villanova and Mar­INDIANAPOUS (AP)-The U.S. Olympic track and field 

Olymp'ic trialsto be held 
yland games in which his shots trials will be held as scheduled, regardless of whether the 
m the final seconds provided United States sends a team to Moscow for the summer 
one-point victories for Notre Games, the president of The Athletics Congress said 
Dame. Monday. Most of the trials are scheduled June 21-29 at the 
In addition to his Captain's University of Oregon at Eugene. Award, Hanzlik took home the Best Defensive Player Award. 
... Stvitntners 
~rransactions 
Basketball 

WASHINGTON BULLETS --Signed Lawrence Boston, forward, to a 10-day contract. 
Baseball 
American League 

BALTIMORE ORIOLES --Announced that Tim Stoddard, pitcher, agreed to contract terms. 
CALIFORNIA ANGELS --Announced that Dave Frost, pitcher, has agreed to a one-year contract of Carney Lansford, third baseman; Chris Knapp and Mark Clear, pitchers; and Todd Cruz, infielder. 
MILWAUKEE BREWERS --Named Bob "Buck" Rodgers, interim manager. 
Announced that Paul Molitor, second baseman, had agreed to a one-year contract. 
Football MONTREAL ALOUETTES --Named Joe Pascale director of player personnel. hockey 
BUFFA~J SABRES --Traded Jerry Korab, defenseman, to Los Angeles for the Kings' first-round choice in the 1982 draft. 

Basketball 

National Invitational Tournament 
Monday's Games Michigan 74, Texas-EI Paso 65 St. Peter's 34, Duquesne 33 Virginia 57, Boston College 55 
ageous progress following Sept­ember surgery to repair knee canilage. The Role Player of the Year Award went to junior Gilben Salinas for his front-line suppon throughout the cam­paign. 
Senior w~lk-on Tim Healy 
[continued from page 8) 
In the 200-yard butterfly, for instance, junior John Gibbons, failed to qualify for the finals by just one-one hundredth of a second. The regular season was even funher capsulized when Notre Dame's...position in the standipgs, as had happened so many times before, was not determmed until the conclusion of the 400-yard freestyle relay. Going into that event's finals, the Irish clung to a slim peven point lead over host l'llinois State. The Redbirds founh­place finish in the event coup­led with a sixth place finish by Battle, Shepardson, junior Thorn Krutsch, and Komora gave the Irish ftfth-place in the was cited with the Student-Ath­lete Award. A Dean's List student and law school candi­date, Healy is the first Irish walk-on to play all four years with the Irish. 
Nearly 1,000 persons attend­:ed the banquet at the A.C.C. 
standings, edging their h~st 195-192. 
The swimlners weren't the only ones grabbing the atten­tion as the Irish diving corps made its mark in the standings as well. Freshman Paul Mc­Gowan led the Notre Dame divers finishing seventh off the one-meter board in a field of 22 with 365.00 points while team­mates Betsey Shadley finished right behind in eighth with 356.00. 
In the three-meter diving, McGowan and Shadley finished six-seven with 347.10 and 336. 3 5 points respectively. ] unior Chris Leonard also made a showing, finishing 12th with 299.85. 





Classifieds 
Notices 
Morrissey Loan Fund 

N.D. Student loans. $20-$200. Due in one month. One percent interest. Basement of LaFortune. 11:30-12:30 M-F. Last day for May grads to apply is March 14. 
Last chance -N.J. Club Bus h as spaces left! Call Chris at 1178 and Kevin at 1166 for reservations. 
TYPING PLUS. Term papers, theses, dissertations. Light editing, ghost writing. Literary search, biblio­graphies, genealogies. Job resume service. Sliding rate scale based on lead time. Special discounts on full contracts for theses and dissertations. aardvark automatic solutions/ p.o. box 1204 46624/phone (219) 289-6753. 

lost&Found 
Found: A girls Notre Dame class ring. Found in library auditorium. Call 4262 to identify. 
Lost: Small square ladies watch w/2 diamonds on each side, Feb. 23 at Sacred Heart concert. Reward. Call Sharon 6258 
Lost good leather gloves at main circle bus station. Call Don at 1756 
Lost: Gold & Diamond pendant necklace. Reward. Call Maureen 4634 
Lost: Green stocking cap. Disap­peared from coat pocket Wed ... lunch, West Side SOH. of great personal value. Call Steve M. 6708 
Lost-Turquoise ring with a sliver band. Call Anne 1274 
14K gold serpentine bracelet with a gold "D" charm. Call Debbie 7659 
Lost: Red-white ski jacket at 806 St. Louis St. Sat night any info on -Please call4619. Desperately need keys. Film in camera has sentimental value. No questions asked. Please at least mail keys and film to 752 LeMans. Thank you. 
Found: Pair of glasses between Grace and Library. Pick up at Lost and Found. Ad Bldg. 
Lost in ACC Locker or Weight Room ­cotton bowl watch. Reward for its return -Sentimental value. Call Jeff Weston 287-0289 
Lost: Set of 5 keys sometime on Fri. possibly at Stepan Center. 2 room keys and P.O. Box key.. If found please turn into the Observer office. 

Wanted 
Need ride to Boston over break. Can drive and will pay. Call Kevin 1670 
LOCAL BAND NEEDS BRASS SEC; TION. TRUMPET TROMBONE' ALTO. TENOR SA. PLEASE CON'[ TACT MICHAEL COLEMAN IN THE SOUTH DINING HALL OR CALL ME AT HOME 289-1005. AFTER 8:00 P.M. 
STUDENT UNION CAMPUS PRESS NEEDS A WELL-ORGANIZED, EF­FICIENT SECRETARY TO WORK 1-5 DAILY FOR 1980-1981 YR. DUTIES INCLUDE PROCESSING ORDERS AND THE SETUP/LAYOUT OF POS­TERS. BEGIN TRAINING NOW. APPLY 1-5 IN PERSON, BASEMENT OF LAFORTUNE. ANY QUESTIONS CALL 7047 OR DIANE ST 7994. 
Need riders to Champaign, U. of ILL. 
March 14-16. Call Martha 41-4302 
Need ride to and from Miami for Spring Break will share ! Please call 233-2201 after 11 pm on. 
Need ride to/from Massachusetts for spring break. Call SMC 4960 
Two need ride east on 1-80 Spring break. Call Karen 6779 
Wanted: I need to borrow someone's van/pickup for one weekend (Fri. to Sunday) anytime between now and April 7. Urgent. Some recompense possible to kindly Christian will to help me out. Call 232-6344 for details, between 12 noon and 9 pm. Leave name and number. 
Need ride to Cleveland for break. Call Tom or Jim 8321. 
I need a ride home to the Miami or Ft. Lauderdale area over spring break. Willing to share driving and expenses. 
Call Frank 1975 
Need ride to or near Richmond, VA. for break. Will share usual call Steve, 3047 
Need ride to Conn. for break. Will share usual. Call Jim 1175 

Need Spring break riders to Dallas area 272-7930. 

For Sale 
Got a blank space on y(lur wall? Fill it with color basketball action photos. All players, all sizes. Cheap. Not available from Ronco or K-Tel: Call 8932. 
The 6-7 Beloit, Wis., guard either won or shared that award in each of his last three years with the Irish. 
] unior guard Stan Wilcox earned the Fireman of the Year Award for his contributions when both Hanzlik and Bran­ning missed games during th~ season. The 6-3 North Babylon, N.Y., backcouner filled in most admirabll during the first month o the season with Hanzlik sidelined with a dislo­cated finger. 
The Comeback Player of the Year Award went to sophomore Mike Mitchell for hts cour-
All classiHed ads must be received by 5:00p.m. , two days prior to the issue in which the ad is run. The Observer office will accept classifieds Monday through Friday, 10:00 a.m. to 5;00 p.m. All classifieds must be pre-paid, either in person or through the mail. 
Flash: Photographic equipment for sale --fantastic bargains!--came{as, lenses. Call 232-4129 
Minolta SR T 200 for sale; Call Barbar 232-4378 
1973 Ford Gran Torino Sport red with black vinyl top and yellow laser stripe. 
Excellent condition. 50,000 miles. one-owner. $1,200. Call (317) 844-2115. (Indianapolis) 


Personals 
Wow continues with Qwendolyn Brooks, Pulitzer Prize winning poet, 8 pm Stapleton, SMC 
Bob, You should read the personals more often Svsette 
Panama, So who ever said "blonds are mora fun"!!! ­
John Pinter, 
You are cordially invited to dinner tonight. (Don 'I say I never asked you ... ) Sincerely, 
Bunkie 

Victoria, alias Brendan, Here it is at last (only 2 months late) ­Have a nice day! A friend of Teresa 
Needed: Ride to Detroit Area week­end of March 14, Call Angela 
(41-5708) or Teri (41-4825)  
Need spring 2110.  ride for 3 to Wash, break. Please call  D.C. Janet  for at  
Steve:  

Beware of beady eyed S M C 's that steal grain and bleary eyed ex-darners who switch the drafts. 
Ryan 

Grain: 
Now that you've found your glasses, you can see what you're getting into. But without your keys, you can't get into anything. What will you ve losing next? 
Sloe Gin 

Boat the Sioux!!!! 
The third floor Regina girls have gone Hawaiian and are proud of it!!! 
Bush may have won the nomination, but the Reagan women this the Simon campaigners are the foxiest!!! 
Jim-What happened to that 1Opm phone call and pool game Monday at 6 pm? Beth 
Suds & Drugs& Rock n' Roll Corby's Stroot kids Softball Smoker, Sat. March 15th 8 pm 1121 W. Western Fraa Boar, & Food & Games Live Rock by "Tho Pages" !3.00 admission tix at Corby's or door. 
D.C. Club Mooting -Lafortune Little Theatre. Wednesday March 12 6:30 
p.m. Meeting, Elections and Bus-trip sign-ups [Bring money or check. No refunds!] Round-trip $55, One-way $30. 
Like to party but can't afford it on a student budget? Bridgets serves up $.75 drafts from 9:30-10:30 nitely.Bring a crowd. 
Bridgets thinks you need a break! Happy hour from 4-7 daily. Quarter beers 9:30 10:30 nitely. Now thats a deal! 
Coma to Women's opportunity week. 
March 9-14, SMC. 
Uncia Sam Wants you: to elect Mr. Bill as UMOC. 
**SOFTBALL** Anyone interested in coaching the NO women's softball team (fast pitch), please call Karen at 1258 or 2163 
Dr. Liberal, I'm no longer mute-let's talk. Baby's breath 
"Destroyer" Flynn You just don't look vary good in red. Congratulations anyway. M.B.C. 
Chers AQ's: 
Je me suis vraiment amuse pendant mon sejour chez vous. C 'etait vache­ment chouette, quoi. Je vous invite a Ann Arbor n'importe quand, et pour faire n'importe quoi(!). 
Alors, ciao, et rappellez-vous, mes tres cheres amies, 
"Subjugation, Domestication, and Ex­ploitation'' C'est le pied, bebes. 
Love, 
Michael 
Hey, Mike, you long lean and mean man about campus, you ... if 1ask you to the formal Saturday, will you take off your suit for me, too? 
Hopeful 
Foxy freshman blonde and equally foxy friend need ride to Lauderdale the 26th share expenses, driving. Ambi­1362: 
To the bathing beauties (expecially Katie from Cleveland!) in Regina 3S. Thanks y'all, the luau was fantastic, and so was "the punch with a punch" (Right Melissa?) 
Aloha, 
Dallas 
I need ride, Connecticut -NYC area. for break. Joe 1048 
B, You're terrific! Remember I am with you. Love, J. 
JOHN Q. PUBLIC: IF KENNEDY WINS -YOU LOSE! MARY JOE 
Denise (Woz?) 
At Christmas time we captured boots, An held Him for days as a hostage. But hou held on to more precious loots, When you latched on to Joe's sausage! 
Happy 21st Froggie and Cuz Muncher who does Bernie in Suds 
I will pay megabucks for McDonalds $50,000 stamps. Call 287-0646 Ask for Mike. 
Seniors! Save $$! Buy raffle tix fq{ free Senior Formal Bld ...LaFortune M-F, 12-1; LaMans S-Th, 7-9. Drawing at Senior Bar March 20, 11:00 pm Be Thera! 
Hey irish Woman-from Upchuck, Indiana to Spokane, Washington, Good Luck in the Nationals! 
-one wall-fad phtographar 
P.S. -I hope they have ice cream in Spokane. 
Need riders to OSU-COLUMBUS ­Leave Thurs., return Sat. 7879 
To all my friends out there who went on a Magical Mystery Tour this past 

·weekend -sorry I couldn't make it. But next time it's up against the Wall for sure. The White Album 
Cheryl, 
Hey, Happy Birthday. On this special day you are even more pleasing to my eyes. Enjoy it. 
Your Bestest 
WHO'S THE SENESE WITH THE FINESSE 
Business Majors: Econ 124 and 224 tests for sale to highest bidder. Taking offers from females only in my room, tonight. Performance counts. 
Big Red 
Who's Big Rod??? What is Big Rod??? Why is Big 'Rod??? 
Patti, 
Have a good day! 

I 
1 
! 
Tuesday, March 11, 1980 -page 8 


~orts 

Eight newmarks 

Swimmers re-write record book 
by Michael Ortman with a time of 4:18.5, almost a competition of their own in Sports Writer three full seconds faster than ' the 1,650-yard freestyle. In the the mark he set three years ago. event's first heat, Campbell sept The South Bend native also a new varsity record with hts
Pick your clichi: 

"Records were made to be anchored two of Notre Dame's time of 17:10.90. But his life in 
broken.'' three record-breaking relay the record book lasted less than 
''They rewrote the record teams, the 400-yard medley twenty minutes. In the event's 
book." relay and the 400-yard freestyle second heat Hilger shattered 
relay. the mark, clocking a 16:54.51.
"It's not whether you win or 
lose, but how you play the The Adams high school gradu­Hilger finished eighth in thefield 
game." ate also came within two-tenths of 18, and Campbell finished 
"They gave 110 percent." of a second of setting two more eleventh. 
All of these familiar quota­v.arsity marks in both the 50-Sophomore Don Casey was not 
tions could have a place in a and 100-yard freestyle events, gotng to be left out of the 
record-breaking party as hestory about the performance of records which were set by Jim 
the Notre Dame swimming Kane way back in 1975. broke the record in the 200-yard 
Komora's_time :21.7 in the 50 butterfly for an unprecedentedteam in the Midwest Invitation­
al swimming and diving cham­free earned him third place in eighth time, covering the dis­
pionships held this wee~end in the field of 44 swimmers. The tance in 1:57.59. 
The three-day-long meet was
Normal, Illinois. Although the highlight for the Notre Dame team came when Komora's a sort of mini-season for theIrish finished a distant fifth in 
the ten-team field, 253 points :47. 31 clocking in the 100 free Irish. Stark refers to the 
behind first place Western earne.d the Irish their only 1979-80 campaign as a "season 
Kentucky, the Notre Dame first-place finish of the meet. of closeness," and that it was. 
The dual meet records of 7-5
swimmers broke a remarkable Komora summed up his fine 
eight varisty records. weekend performance quite included a pair of losses which "I know we're not able to simply. "I just shaved down, were both decided by two-one compete head-to-head against got psyched and that was that.'' hundreths of a second. On five 
As well as joining Komora on different occasions during thethe scholarship-rich powers like 
Western Kentucky or the Big those relay teams, Battle and regular season the outcome was 
Shepardson set individual not determined until the finalTen schools," said Irish coach 
Dennis Stark, "but I think our marks of their own. In the relay was over. Much the same lnsh swim team cap_tian john_ Komora, pictured here, played 
performance this week was 200-yard individual medley, occurred in the Invitational. an. enormous part zn smashzng many Insh swim standards 
outstanding. Different teams Battle clocked a time of 2:00.7, [continued on page 7] thzs past weekend. 
measure success in different three tenths of a second better 
ways, and this was certainly a than Komora' s old standard set 
successful weekend for us." two years ago. Shepardson 
Stark's swimmers spell suc­swam the 100-yard butterfly in 
Basketball team holds awards banquet
cess R-E-C-0-R-D-S. Ten of :52. 7, more than a second the fifteen Irish swimmers who better than Tom Hartye's three made the trip either earned a year old best. Senior co-captain Rich Bran­ington Beach, California native .661 cliJ? for the field during new individual school mark or A third Irish relay team ning received four awards while also owns the Irish career that penod. swam on a record-setting relay earned a spot on the record jumors Orlando Woolridge and record with 466. The 6-9 center from Mans­team. books as well. In the BOO-yard Kelly Tripucka earned three Branning and Tripucka each field, La., also merited the 
Freshman Glenn Battle, freestyle relay, Greg Bohdan, a piece at the University of joined the 1 ,000-Point Club Most Accurate Shooter Award sophomore Mike Shepardson Dave Campbell, Michael Hilger Notre Dame's annual basket­during the season. Branning thanks to his team-high .585 and junior captain, John Komo­and John Gibbons finished ball banquet Monday night at finished with a career total of shooting mark --and he shared ra led the assault on the record seventh among the ten schools the Athletic and Convocation 1,232 points, while Tripucka the Rebounding Award with books with three new marks with a time of 7:13.77. . Center. cur~ently boasts 1, 192 with his fellow junior Tracy Jackson. a ptece. Junior John Willamowski Branning earned the Assist sentor season to come. Both finished the regular 
Komora, Notre Dame's two­was the fourth member of the Leader Award for the third Branning also was honored season with 179 rebounds. time most valuable swimmer, medley relay team, swimming straight season after topping for his captain's responsibili­In addition to his 1,000-Point set a new standard in the the breaststroke leg. the Irish in that ,department in ties, in addition to receiving a Club honor, Tripucka received 400-yard individual medley Hilger and Campbell staged '79-'80 with 93. The 6-3 Hunt-special recognition award as the Father Tom Brennan Award 
Notre Dame's first four-year which goes annually to the 
starter since Kevin O'Shea in team's top free-throw shooter. 
1946-50. His .762 figure from the line 
Woolridge received the Most this year paced the Irish. TheRunnersdefeat loUJa infinal event 
Improved Player Award for his 6-6 Essex Fells, N.J., native progress throughout the '79-'80 also earned the Offensive Con­campaign. He came on strong sistency Award after scoring in by john Smith Colonel John Stephens. If the hurdles was the event in the second half of the season double figures in all but oneSports Wn.ter Sophomore Jacques Eady upon which the victory was to score in double figures in hisimproved his previous times in built, the two mile run was the 
[continued on page 7]
last 14 games and shoot at a
As if it were a pre-written both the 440 yard run, which he competition that almost lost it. movie script, the Irish track won in a time of :49.0, and the Notre Dame, recognizing team pulled out a 66-65 victory 300 yard dash, where he Iowa's speed, knew it had to Friday when unheralded heroes finished second to Iowa's dominate the middle and long 
Alumnicaptures &Juth Quad
Ahmad Kazimi and Brian Dennis Mosley in :31.24. Jim distance events. AI do 
McAuliffe finished first and Christian finished a strong Bartolini, John Filosa and Marc 
third respectively in the triple fourth in a :32.82 time which Novak figured to provide the 
by virtue oJti~ with Dillon 
jump to nudge Notre Dame past topped his previous best. Irish with more than enough by John Smith Both teams came out withthe University of Iowa. The Other personal bests came strength, but Hawkeye Tom Sports Writer fire in their eyes in the second
Hawkeyes led 62-60 entering from Steve Dziabis and Tom Ferre was not impressed as he the final event. Bernier in the 600 yard dash. upset the pack. Bartoli:1i took half, after a scoreless first 
Alumni Hall captured the
"It was great how the meet Dziadis, who qualified to run in second, and Filosa finished twenty minutes. Dillon ap­
South Quad Interhall Hockey peared to have momentum onended," commented an excited the 600 last weekend, third. 
Championship last night by side were
Irish assistant coach Ed Kelly,· completed the circuit in first Chuck Aragon, Rick Rogers, their when they 
tying Dillon Hall 1-1 in the whistled for a two-minute trip­''Ahmad and Brian are hidden place 1: 10.87. Bernier ended in and Jim. Macauley dominated ACC. The "Dogs" now stand ping penalty. Alumni tookunder the bleachers most of the fourth place with a fine time of the 880 as they ran away from competition 6-0-1 as they prepare for their advantage of the power play asrime, but this rime it came 1:14.31. all Iowa's with first round playoff game against sophomore Matt Brach slappeddown to their performance. It The turning point of the meet times of 1:53.77, 1:54.41, and 
came in 60 high 1:54.44 respectively. Stanford Hall, North Quad run­home an unassisted goal pastwas a lot of pressure on them the yard ner-up at 5-11-1, on Thursday Marchiori's right shoulder for awith everyone watching, but hurdles. The Irish entered the The 1000 yard run was totaUy night. Dillon, 5-0-2, will take 1-0 lead.
both of them came through with competition hoping to come dominated by the Irish as Jay ·on North Quad champion Grace Alumni tried to hold on, butpersonal bests. Kazimi 48'6 v;;. away with at best a second Miranda, Pete Burger, and Jim (6-0.1) in theother playoff game. Dillon's consistent attack pro­McAuliffe 45'10."' They're two place finish considering the Slattery finished better than Last mght's game, played duced a goal when Brian Parker of the greatest guys I've ever speed on the Iowa team. Notre any of the Hawkeye competi­before a crowd of 300, was took a centering pass in front ofcoached; I couldn't be happier Dame's Dave Bernards, Tim tion. Miranda won in 2:12.45, 
highlighted by some fine goal­the net and poked it pastfor them." Twardzik, and Dan Callan were followed by Burger at 2:13.78. 
tending. Dillon's Dan Mar­Schornagle at point blank Kazimi and McAuliffe obviously not intimidated by Slattery posted his personal chiori stopJ?ed repeated efforts range. It turned out to be thewouldn't have been in the the Hawkeye hurdlers as all best at 2:13.98. 
three posted personal bests of The first event of the day was by Alumm's potent offense, final goal of the evening as itposition they were if it hadn't including break away attempts knotted the score at one.
been for some outstanding per­:07.51, :07.57, and :07.78 the mile run; it should have by BiU Egan and Dave McGo­one
formances hy their teammates. respectively to gain a first, third been an omen to the Irish that The game then became 
mgle in the game's waning of dashes up and down the iceEleven Notre Oame runners and fourth place tie. the day would turn out well. 
Kevin and monents. yvith te~s failing
exhibited personal bests for an ''The hurdles were definitely Kenny Tony both . to ACC crowd that included the key event of the meet,'' Hatherly crossed the finish line "Big Red" also peppered connect on sconng opportuni­
Alumni's goalies, Phil Fowler ties. In the end it came down toAthletic Director Edward stated Iowa coach Ted Wheeler, together in a 4:12.85 time. 
and Frank Schornagle, but only defense with Marchiori leading ''Moose'' Krause and ''our strong point is definitely [continued on page 6] on~ shot found the net. the way. 
Associate Athletic Director, our speed." 



