

Shuttle blues -page 3
' ' ' 

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 29, 1980 
Another violent weekend ; two more OC robberies 
by Brian McFeeterJ Staff Reporter 
Two more off campus robberies of Notre Dame students occurred Friday evening, one as a student was "-alking to his home on Corby Avenue, and the second as three women students were leaving Lee's Grill and Barbecue restaurant. 
Responding to these incidents, South Bend police staged a decoy operation near Lee's and arrested five youths. ' Kevin Deardorfwas confronted by three black males ataround 7 
p.m. and forced to turn over a wallet containing $24 and checks. "One ofthe guys had a pistol, but I could tell it was just a cap gun," Deardorfsaid. "I was really just worried about somebody pulling a knife." . 
The Corby St. resident said he attempted to follow the three after they left with his wallet but they sped down an alley. He then called the police and filed a report. . 
In the second incident, which occurred about an hour later, three Notre Dame women were met by a youth armed with a knife as they returned to their car at Lee's Ribs. Two ofthe seniors, who wish to remain unidentified, were struck in the face as they resisted this and another attacker. The 18-to-20 year old youths ran away after grabbing a purse containing keys and nearly $20. 
Police noted that the descriptions of the attackers in both incidents were similar, according to one of the women, and sent plainclothes officers to the South Bend Avenue restaurant. 
(continued on page 4] 

Riehle presents revised constitution 
United States behind ... 
Speaker lays blamefor decline 

VOLUME XV,NO. 28 

Running bolts to popularity 
The increased popularity of running over the past few years has caused a drastic change in the fitness habits of athletes everywhere. Amby Burfoot, winner of the 1968 Boston Marathon, was also an early coach of premier marathoner Bill Rodgers, and has witnessed the changes which brought a­bout the "running revolution". He was interviewed last week by Oh1~rver reporter David Sarphie. 

Q: How JiJ yo11 get introtl11ced to nmning? 
A: I was pretty lucky. My high school coach,who won the '57 Boston Marathon, always taught us that running was fun. We ran over the nature trails and through the apple orchards of New London,Connecticut. He continually stressed the im­portance of running for fun, and it rubbed off on us. 
Q: I've he11rd that yo11 ran your firIIfew r11ceJ in bowling JhoeJ. How did that come to he? 
A: I was just like any other novice. I didn't know anything about shoes. I searched through my attic, looked deep inside my cellar, and finally came across a pair of real light shoes. They worked fine for the first couple of races, but then we had a meet on a cold, rainy afternoon. Needless to say, the bowling shoes fell apart at the stitches. I quickly learned my lesson and bought some running shoes. 
Q: What kind ofinfluence did you have on (three-time &Jton champt~ on) marathoner Btl/ RotlgerJ? 
(continued on page .5] 
By Tom Jackman Constitution specifically de­
Executive NewJ Editor fines the composition and du­ties of Riehle's proposed Stu­dent Senate. The Senate, which would replace the nine-member Board of Commissioners, would have a much wider stu­dent representation but would assume the same responsibili­·ties. The Senate would be com­posed of the Student Union Director, the Judicial Coordi­nator, the Student Body Vice President, the Student Gov­ernment Treasurer, the Off­Campus Commissioner,the HPC Chairman and three elect­ed members of the HPC. Also, the Senate would add the three 
by Tom Koegel Senior Staff Reporter 
William S. Anderson, chair­man of the NCR Corporation, told a Library Auditorium aud­ience of about 100 Thursday afternoon that business, labor, and government all have to share the blame for putting the United States "behind 35 to 14" in the "football game of in­dustrial supremacy." 
Anderson chronicled the rise ofJapanese industrial might in comparison to declining US economic fortunes in his talk entitled "Meeting theJapanese Economic Challenge." 
"The government has con­tinually legishted disincentives to productivity," Anderson said. "However, we cannot make the elected officials scapegoats. Democratic gov­ernment reflects a consensus of the people. In the last fifteen years the people have lacked a sense of direction." 
Anderson claims that the bureaucracy in the interim took the initiative to "embark on a fifteen year spending spree" and enact regulations that leave businesses scrambling "to meet the rising costs of staying in business." 
In comparison, Anderson be­lieves that little government in­tervention in Japan ha!' le(1 to "postwar economic growth nothing short of spectacular." Another factor is the ability of the Japanese business and labor 
TheJ 

to work together "to use  the  
system to obtain the be..  ; of  
capitalism.".  

~ '"lanese growth is due to the "establishment of clear cut economic goals and the char-Class Presidents,the Freshman Advisory Council Chairman, three off-campus students chosen by the Off-Campus Council, and eight on campus representatives,all positions which did not exist on the Board of Commissioners.The SBP will chair the Senate, and vote in the case of a tie. 
Riehle proposes that the eight on campus representa­tives be elected in four separate Districts, two from each Dis­trict. The Districts would, roughly, be divided among the Towers, the North Quad, the South Quad, and the rest of the isolated halls, with some ac­comodations made for equality. 
Elections for these posts would be held after fall break. 
The October 9 referendum will ask whether or not students approve of the amendment to the Constitution, since Riehle's changeshave all been proposed as one amendment. Other Constitutional changes make alterations in the composition of the Budget Committee, the provisions for impeachment of the President and Judicial Coordinator, and the process for amendment ofthe Constitu­tion. 
As a candidate for the office of SBP last spring, Riehle 
(continued on page .5] 
acter of the Japanese people," according to Anderson. They have a "you and me against the world kind of attitude which is part of a great national pride." 
In contrast, Anderson sees the U.S. as "a nation of con­flicting national interests. The government has embarked on a bureaucratic crusade to guaran­tee an easy life," which Ander­son believes isn't necessarily wrong, but is non-productive. "Business tends to subordinate long range planning in favor of short range profits, and Labor has fought the removal of out­dated work methods." 
Anderson proposes a three­fold tax reform plan to stim­ulate U. S. industry in an at­tempt to .:atch up to Japanese innovation. He proposes a tax 
[continued on page J] 


---------------~ 



l\T~~Scl:J=,;='=·=~~~==========?====================M=o=n=d=ay='=Se=p=re=m=b=er==29='=19=8=0=-p=~=e~2
by The Observer and The Associated Press 
Reoublican John Hiler's visit to campus~riday was terme a success yesterday by College Republican spokesman Mark Lynch. Hiler, who is running against Third District incumbentJohn Brademas, was cam­paigning for votes in anticipation of the November 4 election. The candidate arrived on campus at 8:30 Friday morning, gave inte.rviews to the campus media and also met with University President Fr, Theodore Hesburgh. The rest of the time was spent talking with students between classes, according to Lynch. Polls show the race very close at present, and Lynch says that "the few hundred votes supplied by Notre Dame and Saint Mary's could provide the margin Hiler needs to defeat Brademas." 

Iraa said vesterdayitsforcespunched5o miles instcle Iran andwere battling for control ofthree major cities in Iran's oil heartland. Iran denied the Iraqi claims and said the Iranian air force was attacking "enemy units that have penetrated into our beloved homeland." President Mohammed Zia ul-Haq ofPakistan was on a peace mission to Tehran and Baghdad, but there was no indication either side was ready to end the week-long war between the neighboring Persian Gulfoil countries. Iran's news agency said Zia left for Baghdad after conferring twice with Iranian President Abolhassan Bani-Sadr about the border dispute. 
Yale University, to conser':e energy is trying to roust students out of bed by offenng popula'r courses early in the morning .. "';';le ~tudents usually stay up very late at night and sleep m, s.atd c~llege .De~n Howard Lamar. "Studies show that changmg thts habtt wtll cut energy consumptionsignific.antly." This s:~~ster, Lamar moved the time ofhis popular htstory course, Htstory ofthe Trans-Mississippi West" also known as "Cowboys and Indians" to 8:30 a.m. "To my surprise, it seems to be working," Lamar said, noting that he has as many stud~nts in his course as he did when he offered it later in the mormng. 
A West German neo-Nazi is believed to have planted the bomb that ripped through a crowd of Oktoberfest revelers, killing 12 people, including the suspected terrorist, and injuring 213. Police have arrested six members of an outlawed fascist organization in con­nection with the blast. Karl-Heinz Hoffmann, 43, leader of the "Military Sport Group Hoffmann," was picked up over the weekend along with five other members of the group, Bavarian State Justice Minister Karl Hellermeier said Sun­day. Police found papers pertaining to the group near the body of21-year-old GundolfKoehler, the student suepecte? of planting the bomb in a trash can near the crowded extt from the Oktoberfest grounds Friday night. 
Can elephant waste be used as a new energy source for the 80s? Officials at Ringling Bros. and Barnum & Bailey Circus-where the average elephant produces six or seven pounds ofwaste each hour-say they want to make energy each time nature calls. They've asked an Indiana-based firm to help. Harvest Energy Inc. oflndianap­olis plans to produce a device it calls an "anaerobic digester," which breaks down organic wastes and yields methane. Ringling Bros. officials asked the company to mount the system on a flatcar in the circus train. Company officials expect the device to be ready for the circus by spring. From there, the digester would not onlyget rid ofwastes, butwould produce gas to heat livestock cars, run generators for electricity or provide bottled gas for cooking. 
ha1f~~r?c?s.l?ec!?t£ S~e.~~s~!Rt<?t ~~ott~ 
protest a Venezuelan military court's decision to acquit four men accused in a 1976 bombing that killed 7 3 people aboard a Cuban jetliner. The Cubans left for Panama Saturday night shortly after Castro said he had ordered "our diplomats and the rest of the Cuban personnel that transacts some activity over there, 27 in all, to return to Cuba." I twas notimmediate­ly known if all 27 officials had left. The Cuban Embassy appeared empty yesterday morning. 
A 22-year-old cancer victimwith only one leg has rallied thousands and thousands of Canadians to his cause and the result is thatcancer research in Canada is $12 million richer. When Terry Fox dippeo his artificial leg in the Atlantic offSt.John's in Newfoundland on April12 to start a cross-Canada run to raise money for cancer research, hardly anyone took notice. But five months later in· the rugged hills of northwestern Ontario-when the ex­hausted young man had to give up because the cancer that cost him his leg 3 years ago had rea ?peared in his lungs-Fox was a national hero, whose dream and struggle was being shared by the country. When Fox's Marathon ofHope ended Sept. 1 at Thunder Bay-just past the halfway point in his journey -he had raised more than $1.7 million for cancer research, mainly from people who pitched in along the road. 
-Mild with variable cloudiness today with highs in the ~ower 70s. Outlook for tomorrow ;s cloudy with scattered showers. 
Inside Monday 


Swords into ploughshares 
Registration for the draft began this. past summer and all males born in 1960 and 1961 were required by law to inform the government of who they were and where tliey lived. Despite the reassurances by the government and military that a draft is not necessary--nor wanted--right now, many people pro.tested against the reinstating of regtstration. 
Their protests were quiet and short-lived, ending once registrtion was completed. Most men who registered have probably forgotten about it. They made a quick decision over the summer, to register or not to register, and that was it. 
But that really is not it. You see, now that the ftrst step has been taken, there is nothing to prevent the ftnal steps, and if ever we need to think about what we would do when those steps are taken, the time is now. We cannot wait until draft numbers are called or our troops are sent to begin thinking and acting. 
No one can decide whether he will support a war or not without thinking about it. In the past, most men did not thmk about having a choice--if our country called they went to war. It was simple. But consciousnesses have been raised since the Korean conflict and the decision to go to war is no longer simple, due to the emergence of the cold wars, and the threat ofnuclear weapons. If you choose to be drafted with or without a war--you need to have a reason. And ifyou choose not to be drafted, you better have a damn good reason. 
There have always been conscientious objec­tors during times of war. in all draft bills provisions were made for those who, because of religious training and belief ~ere consc~e!l­tiously opposed to war. That ts the tradmonal, accepted deftnition of a CO. The only difference , since WWII, has been the expansion of that deftnition to include those who conscientiously objected, based on person­al beliefs. Exemption from war for a CO, is a privile!{e granted by le!{islation--not a constitu­tional nght. Coupled wtth that exemption from battle was the supposition that the CO would support the government action in any way he could: in the medical corps, office work, etc. 
This has remained the official governmental deftnition of a CO. But within the last twenty years, the term CO has expanded far beyond the bounds of reli~ious beliefs. Historically the CO was always vtewed simply as a non-con­
r-The_O~er_ 'A dignified Bunch' Design Editor: Ryan 'pompous' Ver Berkmoes Ass't Design Editors: Monica '"haughty' Gugle, Patty 'puffed up' Hulley Night Technician: Rich 'princely' Fischer News Editor: Tom 'high minded' Jackman Computer Surgeon: Stephen 'imperious' Brown Day Editor: Bob '1proud pursed: Bernoskie Sports Layout: Michael 'bumptious' Ortman , Copy editor: Kim 'stately' Parent Photographer: Rachel 'high horsed' Blount tiJtt!a, Farewell Appearance: The Quadritek 1200  
The Observer (USPS 598 920) Is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer Is publishedby the students of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $20 per year ($1 0 per semester) by writing The Observer, P.O. Box 0, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. The Obaemr Is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved.  


STATEMENT OF OWNERSHIP, MANAGEMENT AND CIRCULATION 
(R.,ulred by 19 U.S.C J68$J 

Margie· Brassil 


formist, an idealist and dreamer, and he was accepted as such by the government and society. he had his beliefs and stayed out ofthe way. But since the Korean conflict, two new forms of CO have appeared that have caused society and government a great deal of unrest. 
The ftrst is the secular or nonreligious objector; a person who, not throu~h association with a religion, refuses to partictpate in war. The difficulty with the secular objector involves the question of his sincerity--there is no religious training that backs up his beliefs, they are personal instead. 
How does one judge if his objection is relly from conviction or selftsh cowardtce? 
In her book, Conscience in America, 'lillian Schlissel deftnes conscientious objection as 'the act of a single individual who seeks to right a social injustice, who seeks, by his own protest or nay-saying, to turn the state from war.' A CO is as much a/atriot as those who believe they must defen their country in a time of crisis. only the CO would prefer to prevent or end war by his dissent. 
A CO , whether he-is a religious, selective, secular or absolutist, supports his country; but his ideals lead him to protect it by preserving its peace. 
Society's view of the CO has always been negative, because he chooses a different way, he doesn't conform to the common view; he forces people to stop and think about war and violence. 
No, we are not faced with war yet. But with the present conflict in the Mid-East, and last year's Soviet invasion of Afghanistan, and the Iranians still holding our people hostage--war might not be all that far off. We might be at peace now, but ifwe are to remain at peace, the voice of the conscientious objector must be heard. They are a reminder that there can be an alternative. It's something to think about--be­fore the draft, before the war, before it's too late. 
This is the first part ofa two-part column. Next week's column will deal with the moral reasons for being a conscientious objector. 
1. OWNE A (If own~d by a corpoNiion, ill n~~m~ and addr~u mUll ~ stot~d and tllso im~dillt~ly th~rewnder the rumes sttd Ud~~~ ofllod:­holdosowl'li"f or holdtn,I pncmt tw more oftotal amount ofstotk. I{not Owttl!d by a corportJtion, the Mmt'S and addresses oftlrt lndi'lid'"l ownen must~ flrrl'l. Ifowned by a ptlrtnurJtlp or otlr~ unincorpoNttd firm, Its Mml! tlffd addreu, 41 ~II tU lhDt of~ch illdMdwll mwt M &f11fllt. If tl" publ~tio11 is published by D rtOI'IfNOfit orpnlulion, iu ~t~~me •nd address mull be st.llttd..J 

I. FOR COMPLETION BY NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS AUTHORIZED TO MAIL AT SPECIAL RA,TES (Stc:llon JU.JI:l, PSMJ Thl purPOM, function, 1nd nonprofit stUUI of thl1 ortenl.r:ltlon 1nd thl 111empt 1111UI lor F-cl1r11 Income till purpo•• (Ciwclf O<MJ 
(If cluJilltd, publW.., mu•l •ub'"JI .-..-pllltlallon o( ch4nl• wJIIIIIIIII•tottnwl'lt.J 

AVERAGE NO. CO.. IES EACH EXTENT AND NATURE OF CIRCULATION ISSUE DURING PRECEDING 12 MONTHS 
A. TOTAL NO. CO..II:S ,.RINTI:D (Nd Preu R.unJ 
a. "AID CIRCULATION 

(, SALI!S THROUGH OI!ALI!RS ANO CARRIERS, 5TI't£1!:T VIENDOIIIS AND COUNTIER SALlES 
2, MAIL suaSCRI..TIONS 

c. TOTAL,.AIDCIRCULATION(Sumo/JOBJondiOB'lJ __6(){) ·-­






-1·-­

D. P"RI:I:DISTRiaUTIONaYMAIL,CARRIII:ROROTHI:RMI:ANS __.1L.._QQQ__ --­SAM ..LI!S, COM,.LIMI:NTARY, AND OTHII:II P"RI!I: CO..II!S 1 300 
f-•.-T-OT_A_LD-••-m0-fC-~-d-DJ---------t---}._Q"-'_,=!J()()=--~-­
..-TR-00-UT-00-N,-__ 
P". CO..III:S NOT DISTRiaUTI:O ... 
I. OI'"P"ICII ua11:, LI:P"T OVIIR, UNACCOUNTIID. S,.OILI:D AP"TI!II ,.IIINTINQ -100-­
2. RIETUIINS P"ROM NIIWS AGI!:NTS 

311 U. S. C. 31124 provld" In pwtlnent pen: "No periiCm who would hwl bNn entitled rTi•U m•n•r und.,. formw ...:tlon .359 ot thll tit.. lh•tl m•U IUch mstnr etttle ret• provided und•r thiiiUbMCtJon unleu ... lit•• '""u•lly h the Postel S•rvlce • wrltwn requ...: tor perml•km to mell metter 1M~ r~." 
In eccord81"1Ce wl1tt rh• pro1rl1lont ot thl1 ~tetut•. I hereby uquett perml11lon to mell 1he publlc•tlol"l nllmld In 118m 1 11th• ph.-t poJU91 r~ p.-nly eurhorlzld by 38 U. . C. 3828. 

ACTUAL NO. COPIES OF SINGLE ISSUE PUBLISHED NEAREST TO FILING DATE 
11 ()()() 
9 ()()() 
6{X) 
-· _g 60() 1 30() 
--!~~~-­
100 


The Observer Monday, September 29, 1980:page1 

A money loser 
ND-SMC shuttle runs up deficit 
I)

by Susan King This cutting back was an According to Trigiani,there is economy measure, but ND ag­a great loss from students who Notre Dame lost $4,500 on reed with SMC's rationale for avoid paying by sneaking on the the shuttle service last year and keeping the shuttle system the bus, telling drivers they had stands to lose $6,500 more this same. "Saint Mary's really in­previoulsy paid when they had year, according to James Mc­sisted that the bus shuttle not not, and the students who Donnell, director of Student be curtail~d. They didn;t object simply forget their fare and Activities at Notre Dame. to the higtl-cost.They consider then beg the bus driver to take 
McDonnell explained that it part of the attraction to bring them anyway.the last few years, South Bend students over," McDonald ad­Trigiani said, "Letting the bus service"Transpo" has in­ded. students on the shuttle when creased its costs. According to The directors then talked they have forgotten their McDonnell, last year ND bud­with students about increasing money differs from driver to geted $32,000 and the total student revenue. McDonald driver."Most drivers are strict shuttle cost was $36,500. said, "Fares don't come close to about this policy, but Mc­
McDonald estimates that the matching the price of ex­Donnell said, "We do not deny 
cost for the shuttle service this penses," a ride to anyone," year will be at least $95,000. He When the night shuttle be­expects to receive $1 3,000 in gan, student goverment pro-
To have an umbrella and not have ~se for it is good reason 
student revenue which leaves
for spontaneous joy any day. 
posed­

• Dillon Hall
the sum of $82,000 to be cov­to help meet costs, students ered by ND and SMC. This cost would pay fares. This system will be divided between the two was adopted and the orignal 
schools equally. 
Famed English poet kicks off
reason for students payingwasND budgeted $34,500 for "a good intent-a gentleman's this year's shuttle cost,although agreement," saidMcDonald. 
the estmated cost is $41,000. If SMC Co-Ex Commissioner these figures are accurate, ND Toni Trigiani said, "The service

gives reading to crowd 
United Way
by David Rickabaugh the timeless tension of bade­will then have a deficit of is free in the day because both fields throughout history. Then $6,500. ND and SMC feel that students 
Distinguished English poet the game itself becomes a sym­"Notre Dame is under-bud­should not be made to pay a Dillon Hall kicked off the and translator Paul Roche read bol of all that glorifies and all geted and we know it will cost busfare for a mandatory class at 1980 campus United Way cam­selections of his poetry to a .that threatens the human an­more," McDonald said. He then the other school." At night, the paign yesterday, getting 100 crowd ofapproximately 150, in imal (in his prowess and god-added, "When first looking at shuttle is used for social rea­percent participation by ever­the Library Auditorium Thurs­given sexuality) on his way to these figures, ND decided not sons, not academic reasons.Af­yone in their hall on the first 
day night. testing and fulfillment." to pay this large amount. ND ter 6 p.m., the shuttle costs $.15 day. The campaign asks that 
During the lecture Roche de­Concluding, Roche read, wanted to cut back, but Saint one way. Trigiani said,"lt has every student on campus con­fined a poet by saying, "He tries 'every moment is fraught with Mary'spushed the issue." been considered to increase the tribute $2, and a daily chart to record, condense, recreate, its own surreality; and this in­ND was hoping to cut back fare to $.20, but the drivers beginning tomorrow In The and transcend reality." cludes the humble awareness one hour per night, but SMC can't even get the $.15 out of 0Jerverwill measure the prog­
The lecture concluded with that unrelated to the divine will was concerned about security the students now." McDonald ress ofeach hall as they attempt the reading of"An Ode To The triumph and catastrophe are and the students safety,know­also said that "Paying $.20 to reach 100 percent participa­Ineluctable Encounter OfSuch indistinguishable." ing that the students were not would be the maximum. After tion. The campaign will con­Sweet Flesh (Purdue Against Following the lecture an in­going to come home an hour all, it is only $.30 for a ride tinue through the beginning of Notre Dame, Sept. 6, 1980). formal discussion was held in early. downtown." next week. The poem linked the football the Library Lounge. 
game to the battlefields Roche is currently serving as throughout history-through poet-in-residence in the Uni­the use of symbolism. v~rsity's General Program of 
Roche wrote, "Under the Liberal Studies, which sponsor­golden and ever-present aegis ed the lecture. of the Madonna du Lac and The author's poems and short against the background of a stories have appeared in the green and ot September cam­New Yorker, Harper's, Saturday pus, a slow crescendo of ex­Review, London Magazine, and in citement builds up before an numerous compilations he has important football match, and had published during his dis­is symbolized by being linked to tinguished career. 


Someoneyou care about have a drinking 

~I'J!!!!~ t-::=e 
twa separate rnainatage playa to be produced in nov. & 
\Naeh.Hall Bun. & Man. liiiDI:· E!B-Ii!B 

j
&:30-8:30 
Black people and slnprs encourapd. 
\ 



Monday, September 29, 1980-page4 
nAmateur among the Pros'~'-1 DUE TODAYIALL SMCIND CLUBS & 


~ ORGANIZATIONS ELIGffiLE 
.

. . 
allocations given out Sun. Oct. 5 . .. 
.-------------------------------------------------­
.E at 1:00 pm in the Student Govt. office . ~ 
-. . . 

: ( Regina Basement ) 
~

..................................................................
~ 
Sour grapes · 






Farm Workers union wilts 
By Roger Gillott Associated Press Wnter 
The United Farm Workers union, long the darling of grape and lettuce boycotting liberals, has fallen on hard times. 
Now in the second year of a dispute with vegetable growers in the rich desens of southern California and Arizona, the UFW concedes defeat on the picket line and admits its boycotts do not have the im­pact they once did. 
The UFW is also running into difficulties over back taxes and ~overnment grants. 
Thmgs were considerably more glamorous 15 years ago. The UFW's strike against cen­tral California grape growers 
Important Meeting for all OBSERVER reporters 
6:30PM Tuesday night OBSERVER office 
Canoeing In The Fall 

Is The Best of All! 
Individuals & Grouos 
Oldfather Canoe Reotal 607 W. Plymouth Ave. Goshen, Indiana 46526 
219-533-2295 


George Plimpton 
telshowitteelstobe ~­

began Sept. 16, 1965-the 155th anniversary of Mexican Inde­pendance Day-and stretched on for five years of marches, fasts and boycotts. 



_IOjjj 

The bitter but publicity-rich strike took on son ofa "Grapes of Wrath'' romanticism that captured the fancy of urbanites from coast to coast. The colorful union leader, Cesar Chavez, wearing his familiar plaid shin and khaki pants, became a national symbol as he took up the cause of impoverished Latinos every­where. 
Today the situation is less glowing: 
-Investigators for the com­munity Services Administration issued a repon challenging a CSA grant of $951,000 in migrant worker funds and sug­gestio~ that the UFW may have violated a federal regula­tion by usin~ the money for union activines. The CSA is expected to decide within a month what action to take. 
-Other federal authorities are investigating whether $1 million from the Labor Depan­ment and the former Depan­ment of Health, Education and Welfare was misused. 
-The Internal Revenue Ser­vice says the UFW owes more than $400,00 in back taxes for unemployment ·and social security. 
-The state legislature has approved a bill prohibiting the UFW from making members contribute to its campai~n war chest, effectively curtailing the union's political clout. 

Philly Oub 
•

stgn-ups tonight 
The Philadelphia Club will have sign-ups for the bus run­ni"ng during October break. Sign-ups will be onMonday eve. at 7pm in Lewis Hall. The cost is $75 round trip. 

Saint Mary's allocations due tonight 
Saint Mary'.s Student Gov­ernment will ,hold a meeting October 5 at 1 p.m. in the Student Government Office of the Regina Hall basement to award allocatio'ns to the various clubs requesting them. One representative from each club requesting mop.ey is invited to attend. 
Application. forms for the al­locations are' due today. All SMC-ND clubs and organiza­tions are eligible to receive funds. For further information, call Kathy Kanehann (41-4259). 


~enq of ~otre !Jame ;t{qln ~. ;laNa& 46556
-......~ 
September 29, 1980 
Dear Members of the Notre Dame Student Body: 
As you know, this year's United Way Fund Drive is taking place this week on campus. As I have in years past, I would once again ask you to support this worthwhile cause. 
I think it is important for everyone to experience the responsibility to give during the course of their college educa­tion. The United Way Fund Drive is one very good way to gain this experience. I find it admirable that the student goal is set at 1~ participation rather than a total dollar figure. The emphasis an one-to-one solicitation and personal cootact exemplifies a commitment to promote responsible giving and last year's st~ent participation rate of nearly 85~ was by far the highest ever. • 
As you know, the entire University is involved with the United Way Fund Drive of St. Joseph County. Notre Dame, as part of St. Joseph County, is asked to pledge an annual donation to the fund. Faculty, administration, staff, and students partici­pate each year to meet this goal. Your donation to help support the many charitable organizations in the local community will be greatly appreciated by many people less fortunate than ourselves. 
Last year's student response for United Way was excellent. Let's see if we can't prove that Notre Dame has the number one student body in more than just athletics by topping last year's response and reaching that lao% participation figure. 
Thanking you for your cooperation and wishing you the best during the year ~ead,-I am 
Ever devotedly in Notre Dame,
-i. /UJ ~ILL ~.~ 
(Rev. ) ifh.;octore ~1. Hesburgb, C.&7/.C. , 
President -u· 
• 


The University president makes a point while delivering a speech. 



, Crime·

I I 
[continued from page 1) 
The city police department would give no details of the 
operation, acknowledging only that five juveniles have been 
arrested and are being held. 
Later Friday night, the three robbed students were asked to 
return to the police stationand were able to identify theirattackers 
from a lineup, one of them reported. 
Deardorf said he was not called about the arrests but was later 
told some suspects had been detained. 
Neither of the struck women was seriously hurt, though one of 
them did go to a hospital to make sure her nose was not broken. 
. 
~·································································~ 

lsMcAi~~~~o~VT1
l 

APPLICATIONS 
---. 

I I I 
1 
1
The ~er -from page -1 Monday, September·29, 1980-page 5 1 
I 
• • Burfoot 
(conhl11~ed from page 1] 
A: In the late SixtiesI roomed with both Bill and Olympian Jeff Galloway. That was at Wesleyan University. Bill's high school coach had been stern and authoritarian with his runners. This turned Bill off completely. When he carne to Wesleyan, I re-introduced him to the fun of running. We de­vised our own program really. We both enjoyed the long, slow, aerobic running. Then we through in some speed work and hills to sharpen up for races. Basically, I acted as Bill's men­tor. 
Q: Tell me about your 1968 &ston win. 
A: It was my senior year in college. Twice I had been sixth in the NCAA's in cross-country, and I was beginning to get some confidence. Also, I had run an 
8:45 two-mile that year,which proved to myself that I had some speed. To train for Bos­
• • • Gov't 
[continued from page 1) 
pledged to centralize the wide­ly-spread Student Government branches into a more workable body. His Student Senate would take up the functions not only of the Board of Com­missioners, but also of the Campus Life Council, in hopes of constructing a unified, rep­resentative student voice. Riehle cannot disband the CLC, but he feels it is an ineffective body because it has University staff members on its board,and he says he will not convene it again. 
It should be emphasized that the Student Senate's adminis­trative powers will not differ from those of other student governmental bodies-it has none, other than the allocation of student activities funds. However, Riehle feels that the Senate, with wider student rep­resentation but without Ad­ministration interference, will perform its duty asthe student voice· to the University much more effectively than any of its predecessors. 
But Riehle can only hope that fifty percent of the student body turns out to vote on the referendum, and that all of them approve ofhis new plan. If they do not, he must attempt a longer,more tedious amend­ment process: Riehle is not looking forward to that.­
• • .Speech 
[continued from page 1 
break to fund research and development in industry, an increase in the amount of de­preciation a business a business can claim as a tax deduction, and an attempt to stimulate personal savings." 
"The average American only saves about five percent of his income, while the average Jap­anese saves almost 20 ·rcent," Anderson said. Thi:. saving leads to a high rate of capital formation in Japan, and makes money more available for in­vestment in industrial renova­tion. 
ton, I was doing 120 miles a week, which was unheard of back then. The race itself ac­tually became a two-man race between myself and a Notre Dame grad, Bill Clark. He was edging me outgoing up the hills toward Boston, but his thighs cramped up on the down-side. I was able to keep thepace up and win it. 
Q: What kind of physical afld P.IJ'chological barriers mustyou over­come in a marathofl? 
A: Ofcourse, everyone hears about "the Wall" that all mara­thoners hit. However, I think it's just as much a mental, psychological battle as it is physical. You must run a per­fectly-paced race. It takes a­wareness and a lot of mental stamina to complete a run of that distance. 

'Refrigerators 
dormroom size students rates 
CALL 
TAYLOR 





RENTAL 
277-2190 
1427N.Ironwood..,4 
Q: Do you thiflk the cu"eflt rufl­fliflg boom will cofltiflue? 
A: I don't think the current increases percentage-wise can continue. However, in absolute numbers, more and more peo­ple will be running. I think the trend will spread throughout the family. I also think the run­ning craze will begin to affect the lower socio-economic strata. 
Q: What are you flow doiflg, career-wise? 
A: As a writer for Ruflfler's World,! stay pretty busy. I've been experimenting with a training program of running only four days a week. This allows me time to restand toget my work done. On the days I do run, I run hard. This keeps me in shape for road races. And it keeps me feeling good, too. 

r-~--------------------------------~--­

, 
't
,
,­
, 
~ 
,
, ,' 
' 
The~===-'-=-=---=---=--~-=============================== 
•
~4[)c:t~~==================M=o=nd=~='=~=t=~=b=~=29=,=19=80=~=~=e=6
Campus 

5:30p.m., meeting, french club, 2nd floor south dinin~ hall. 
6:30 p.m., pledge cere­mony, alpha phi omega, rms. 110-114, o'shag. 
7 p.m., philadelphia club october-break bus sign-ups, lewis hall, $7 5. 
7 p.m., computing mini· course, "script," 115 ccmL, phone 2H 11 to register. 
7 p.m., film, "dr. strange­
.. .
(

ove, engr. aud., sponsored hy inst. int'l studies. 
7: ~0 p.m., film series, "the ni me of monsieur lange,", washington hall. 
H p.rn., concert, "second 
• hapter of acts," stt:pan ccn­ll"r, sponsort:d hy spiritual tock of nd. 
H p.m., dept. of modern & 
• lasskal languages lecture, "'ht·rn:v james & italy," klaus bllzillt:t·r, nd. mcm. lib. loungl". 
~THAT'S AftAZ//(j,
"KJIP. ON 

M8?JCAt• THEY
r.v.? IVHAT 
Molarity 
FLIGHT J FR6M CLEVEL.ANP TO SOU71I BENe> REQUEST/Nfl ~FOR 
FINA.L APPROACH 77) LA.NP 


Peanuts 
MAI{BE \t'OU'RE A CAROLINA WREN ..WO\JLD 
L{OU LIKE TO 6E A 
CAROLINA WREN? 
T~EL( 60, 11 CI11RPIT'(, Cl-tii~PIT'r', C~IRPIT'( 
CHIRPIT'{, C141RP" 
9/29/80

© 1980 by Chicago Tribune-N.Y. News Synd. Inc. All Rights Reserved 
AIR FORCE ALWAYS NEEDS MORE LEADERS. 
We're looking for pilots .. _na~igators .. _missile­
. men_ .. engineers_ ... math majors ... people manag­ers ... doctors ... scientists ...journalists. _.and more_ And the Air Force ROTC program is a great way to get into a job like one of these which can help you improve your leader­ship ability and your professional competence_ 
As a commissionOO officer in the Air Force, ~ can be proud of the role you play in your community and the contribution you make to your coun!Ty's security_ You can know that you're doing a job of importance, a job with responsibility. 
The Air Force ROT<;: program offers a way to help you achieve these goals. As an AFROTC cadet, you"llleam about leadership, management, and more_ You111eam about bene­fits of being an officer later on, like an excellent salary, medi­cal and dental care, housing and food allowances, and 30 days of paid vacation each year. You11 discover a whole new world open to you in the Air Force. And you can get there through AFROTC_ 
Look into it right away_ You11 be glad you did. 
BOTC 
Gateway to a great way of life. 


Michael Molinelli 
r.'V£ B££N ON Tl-115 
RUN TOO LON~ 


Charles M. Schulz 

49 Madelace 
52 Indo-Euro­peans of old 
55 Bristle: 
comb.fonn 58 Pull a boat 58 Lloyd Doug­
las title 81 Toward shelter 
82 Dles­
63 Smelly 84 Deborah or 
Walter 85 Dessert 86 Affirm&· 
tives 
DOWN 1 Short punches 2 Playwright 
Clifford 3 Arctic boat 4 Conceit 5 Hatfield 
or Percy 6 Cake in· 
gradient 7 Clumsyone 8 See23A 9 Certain 
storm 10 Ankle bone 11 Partof 
T.A.E. 12 Carriage 13 Bridge 
partner 
contact Capt. Gottrich for additional i"'"--283-6634 
18 Channel 
digger 19 Poetry muse 24 "What's 
In-?" 25 Parisian 
cup 21 Wonderful! 
28 Merriment 
29Ciose 
30Vesael 31 Warmancl 
comfortable 32 Abhor 33 Eataway 35 That is: 
Lat. 38 Rage 38 Mistakes 41 Hom-shaped 
item 43 Convince 48 Pastoral 48 Dwindle 49 Indian 
shelter 50 States, 
lnCaen 51 Stray calf 52 Aleutian 
island 53 Madden 54 North Sea 
feeder 55 Midwestern 
state: abbr. 57 Marries 59 Baseball 
stat. 60 Understand 


The Observer Monday, September. 29, 1980;.page 7 
Baseball Harriers
Sports Briefs, _ _____, 
AMERICAN LEAGUE NATIONAL LEAGUE 
finish 2nd 
EAST

Ruggers take two, tie one 
W L Pet. G.B. East 
by Mall Huffman
New York 99 57 .635 W L Pet. G.B. Baltimore 94 61 .606 4 Montreal 86 70 .551 
Sports Wn'ter 

The~ otre Dame Rugby Club team captured two wins over 
Boston 82 70 .539 15 Philadelphia 85 70 .548 1/2Purdue Saturday while tying the Boilermakers in the third 
Milwaukee 83 74 .529 16 Pittsburgh 80 76 .513 -6 
The Warriors of Marquette
Detroit 80 75 .516 18 St. Louis 72 84 .462 14 University, unde•CoachJimAI­game. The Irish took the "A" match 20-4 and the "B" contest 
Cleveland 77 78 .497 21 New York 64 92 .410 22 Toronto 64 91 .413 34 Chicago · 63 92 .406 22 
16-0 and then went even with Purdue 12-12 at the "C" level. 
len, captured the first annualNotre Dame will next meet the South Bend Rugby Club on National Catholic InvitationalSaturday afternoon. Match time for the intra-city rival game 
WEST WEST 
cross country meet Frida}' af­on Stepan field will be announced later this week in the ternoon.
Observer. 
x-Kansas City 92 64 .590 Houston 89 67 .571 
The meet, run at Notre
Oakland 80 77 .510 12 Los Angeles 87 69 .558 2 Minnesota 74 82 .474 18 Cincinnati 86 71 .548 3 
Dame's Burke Memorial Golf 
Texas 73 83 .468 19 Atlanta 80 75 .516 8 
Course, featured 18-teams with 
Frosh Army tickets ready 
Chicago 66 88 .429 25 San Francisco 73 82 .471 15 
some ofthe top catholic schools 
California 64 90 .416 27 'San Diego 70 87 .446 19 
from around the nation com-. 
Seattle 59 97 .378 33
Freshman student tickets for the October 18 Army foot­
peting. The race was planned
x-CIInched division title 
ball game may be picked up today at the second floor ticket and organized by Irish head
Yesterday's Games 
windows in the ACC. 
track and cross country coach Pick-up for students who missed their designated days will 
Yesterday's Games 

New York 8, St. Louis 0 
Joe Piane. be tomorrow. 
Detroit 6, New York 5, 10 innings San Francisco at Atlanta, ppd., 
The Irish harriers finished a Boston 7, Toronto 3 rain
Students may pick up as many as four tickets each, as long strong second to Marquette,
Baltimore 5, Cleveland 3 Montreal 8; Philadelphia 3
as they have one classmate's J.D. card per ticket. Students finishing with 67 points to the
Minnesota 8, Kansas City 7 Chicago 3, :Pittsburgh 2
who have not yet purchased tickets for the Army game may Warriors 50. St. Thomas with
Chicago 8, California 1 Cincinnati' 8, Houston 5 
still do so. A limited number of tickets remain available for 
70, Holy Cross with 1 30, and students only. 
Oakland 3, Milwaukee 2 San Diego 1, Los Angeles 5 
Texas 4, Seattle 1 
DePaul at 141 rounded out the The ticket windows will be open from 8 a.m. through 5 
Today's Games 
top five. 
Today's Games 

p.m. on each of the pick-up dates listed above. 
Rick Sayre of Walsh College 
San Francisco (Hargesheimer 4/6) 
(Ohio) was the suprise winner
Baltimore (Stone 24-7 and D. at Atlanta (Matula 11/13) 
of the five mile race. Sayre
Martinez 5-4) at Boston (Drago 7-5, Pittsburgh (Rhoden 6/5) at New McWhorter, 0-1), 2, (t/n) York (Lynch: 1/1) 
finished with a time of24: 31 for
Spartan JV dumps Irish 
the five mile course. (Mirabella 4-11 ), ( n) Montreal (Lee 4/6), (n) 
Detroit (Weaver 2·3) at Toronto St. Louis, (Vuckovich 12/9) 'at 
Pete Skorseth of Marquette,
Milwaukee (Sorensen 11·9) at Chicago (Reuschel 11/12) at 
one of the pre-race favorites 
California (Tanana 10·10), (n) Philadelphia (Christenson 5/1 ), (n)
The Irish junior varsity football team lost to Michigan according to Piane, finished
Only games scheduled Only games scheduled
State's JV squad yesterday afternoon on Cartier Field, 6-3. 
second at 24:50 in leading his Tom Kornick, a 5-10 180-pound senior from Paoli, Ind., 
team to victory. Larry Deeneybooted a 35-yard field goal at the end of the first quarter for of St. Thomas captured third Notre Dame's only score. The Spartans six points also came place with an effort of 24:57.
Football

on field goals, one midway through the second quarter and The Irish were paced by sen­one in the closing minutes of the fourth to snap a 3-3 ior captain Chuck Aragon who deadlock. 
AMERICAN CONFERENCE NATIONAL CONFERENCE 
placed fourth overall in the 126 FreshmenJohn Mosley and Greg Bellied the Irish offense 
East Eut 
man field. Aragon earned a time with 63 yards and 47 yards rushing respectively. 
W •L T Pet. PF PA W L T Pet. PF PA 
of 25:04. The next Irish runner 
Buffalo 4 0 0 1.000 96 50 Philadelphia 3 1 0 .750 118 40 
to finish was freshmen Andy
Miami 3 1 0 .750 65 66 Dallas 3 1 0 .750 93 68 New England 2 1 0 .667 92 85 St. Louis 1 3 0 .250 87 99 
Dillon who followed Aragon
Novice fencers to begin 
Baltimore 2 2 0 .500 85 76 N.Y. Giants 1 3 0 .250 72 121 
home, finishing fifth at 25:08. 
N.Y.Jets 0 4 0 .000 72 109 Washington 1 3 0 .250 47 76 
Completing the top five for
Central Central Pittsburgh 3 1 0 .750 117 67 Oetron 4 0 0 1.000 117 41 
Practice for novice fencers will begin today at 7 p.m. i:n the N.D. were John Filosa, Tonyfencing gym ofthe ACC. The practice is open to all interested 
Houston 3 1 0 .750 67 64 Minnesota 2 2 0 .500 72 106 
Hatherly, and Carl Bicicchi whoand those wishing to attend should enter through Gate 4. 
Cleveland 2 2 0 .500 78 90 Tampa Bay· 2 2 0 .500 71 83 
finished 17th, 19th, and 22nd
Cincinnati 1 ' 3 0 .250 68 75 Green Bay 1 3 0 .250 47 114 West Chicago 1 3 0 .250 45 87 
respectively. 
San Diego 4 0 0 1.000 118 57 West 
Though pleased with a strong
Brett's average up to .385 
Oakland 2 2 0 .500 82 89 San Francisco 3 1 0 .750 104 91 
second place showing, sixth
Seattle 2 2 0 .500 75 87 Los Angeles 2 2 0 .500 108 79 Denver 1 2 0 .333 60 77 Atlanta 2 2 0 .500 97 82 
year coach Joe Piane felt theBLOOMINGTON, Minn. (AP)-Glenn Adams slammed a 
Kansas City 0 4 0 .000 50 88 New Orleans 0 4 0 .000 68 104 
Irish should have won. "Itwo-run homer and Rob Wilfong blooped a run-scoring 
! 
thought we would win the meetdouble in the bottom of the seventh as the Minnesota Twins 
Yaaterday's Games before it startedAndI still think
rallied to defeat Kansas City 8-7 for their ninth const:cutive we should have won it. We ranvictory yesterday. 
Pittsburgh 38, Chicago 3 St. Louis 24. Philadelphia 14 
well for three miles, but didn'tThe loss was the eighth straight for the playoff-bound 
Cleveland 34, Tampa Bay 27 Atlanta 20, San Francisco 17 
run well after that."
Dallas 28, Green Bay 7 Baltimore 35, N.Y. Jets 21
Royals, a club record. 
Houston 13, Clnclnnatl10 San Diego 44, Kansas City 7 
The Irish will host the NotreEarlier, George Brett slammed a pinch-hit grand slam 
Los Angeles 28, N.Y. GIants 7 Seattle 14, Washington 0 
Dame Invitational meet thishomer in the sixth to vault the Royals into a 7-4lead. Brett's 
Detroit 27, Mlnnesota 7 
Friday, October 3, at the Burke ro .385. 
hit came on his only at bat of the game, lifting his average 
Miami 21, New Orleans 16 ToniHht'a Game 
Buffalo 24, Oakland 7 Denver at , ew England 
Memorial Golf Course. 
All classified ads must be received by 5:00p.m. , two days prior 
to the issue in which the ad is run. The Obserwr office wil accept 
classifieds Monday through Friday, 10:00 a.m. to 5;00 p.m. All 
classifieds must be pre-paid, either in person or through the mail.
Classifieds 
NOTICES 
WANTED: 1977 THE DOME yearbook. I will !Jade one Michigan Slate Hekel "THE EMPTY KEG" needs COMEDIANS, FOUND: Cross Pen near Alumni -My brother lost hlsln lire. Call Paul lor one student Air Force ticket. Call MAGICIANS, and IMPRESSIONISTS.... Call Bob 3087 Riehle at 6111 or 232-1545. Tim al8706. Please contact Anita A·1-A380 at 
soon a\ 11lble. RIDE NEEDED to ARIZONA a.s.a.p. Need lour Miami GA llx. Call Stan 
1.011: In North Dining Hall, a REGGIE over Oct. break. Please call Jim 1942 BOSTON•BUS: The Boston Club will JACKSON autograph baseball 8700. be running a but to and from NEED RIDE TO DAYTONA BEACH, FLA. 
glove with MARK GANNON wriHen Will pay top dollar lor 2 llx to Miami Boston lor October break. II will FOR BREAK. CALL DAMIAN AT 1005. 
on II. Big YANKEE tan and greal NEEDED: Ride lor 1 or 2 girls, any­game. Call collecl, Hugh Ruddock, leave NO 8 pm, Oct. 18 and return sentimental value. DESPERATE FOil where In N-York lor October 1-602·262-5518. from Bostonal9am, Oct. 26.R_,.. I!ETUJIN. Cal 34A1. PLe.,vc break. Call Cote or Barb at 287· a spot nowl Sign-up In Lafortune 
5676. Will share gas and driving. Lobby Wed. night, Oct. 1, 7-9 pm. NEEDED: Two GA't lor Army game. Coat It $100: $50 deposit required Need ride to St. Louis weekend Oct. Call Colleen at 2207. upon sign-up. BOSTON BUS
LOST/FOUND 
FOR REl\JT 
3. Will share expenses. Please call Sue 4630. Will pay $$$ lor Army G.A.'s. Call NEW JERSEY CLUB BUS IS NOW
LOST: Green Car Cover. Reward. John 1167. TAKING RESERVATIONS FOR FAL~
Call 3231. 

BIIEAK. CALL CHRIS AT 4479 OR KEVIN AT 7687 FOR MORE INFO.
LOST: GOLD ROSEBUD CHARM -FOR RENT: Ugly Duckling Rent-A· TICKETS BROKEN OFF FIIOM RING. LOST Car. Priced from $7.95 a day and PERSONALS SATURDAY EITHER AT GAME OR IN seven cents a mlle. Phone 255-2323 
Former Lyon Mary,
FRONT OF SENIOR BAll. REWARD. 
lor reservallons. 

Thank.l lor a great Hme atCALL 7969. 
Wanted: 2 Tlckels to ALA/NO GAME. 
Sorln'a SYR. Who ever aatd Contact Joe or Dan 287-3311 11 MORE DAYSIII THE BOSS IS BACK. 
Jersey people can't dance? 
LOST: SMC clan ring lost Saturday 
For Sale: 2 BRUCE SPRINGSTEEN WILL DO TYPING NEAT, ACCURATE, (9-20) In LeMons Hall. Engraving 
Concert Tlckels Ocl.10, Chicago. EXPERIENCED. REASONABLE RATES. reads: TAG BA '81. Please contact 
WANTED 

Main noor. Beat Offer. Call Mlk• CALL: 287-5162. Tereta at A-1-A788. 1441 
Happy Birthday John Paxsonll CALL JIM 277·11862 LOST: SET Of KEYS WITH CAMAJIO INSTANT CASH PAID FOR CLASS 
Bouncer• needed lor "The Empty TAG. PlEASE CALL 277·0361 AFTER 6 RINGS. Men's $35-$85 and up. Free 
DESPERATELY NEEDED: A GA Miami Keg." II Interested call Anita A-1­
P.M. hOUse calli. 255-2A02. ltckell. can Tonia 2279 
A380. 

~---------------------~ -------~­
Monday, September 29, 1980-page 8 
Cichy ready to play 

by Beth Huffman Sports Editor 
Steve Cichy, the junior from Fargo, N.D. who was injured in the 31-10 Irish romp over Pur­due, has received a clean bill of healthfromdoctorsattheMayo Clinic in Rochester, Minn. 
Cichy, a strong safety who doubles as Notre Dame's kick­off man, sustained a crushed vertebrae in his neck as he tackled Jimmy Smith in the Boiler contest. 
Local doctors determined that Cichy would be sideline for "an indefinite period of time," 

Diamondmen drop three 
by Dave Irwin Sports Writer 

The Notre Dame baseball team outscored its opponents 17-16 this\weekend but still lost three out of four games played onJake Kline Field to drop its season record to 5-3. 
, 
The Irish lost a pair to Lewis University Sunday by the scoresof 4-3 and 6-4. Notre Dame split with Spring Arbor losing the first game 6-5 and rebounding to take the second 
, game 5-0. "The.key to a successful sea­son is you don't lose a double­
' 
t 
~ header,"said head coach Larry Gallo. "Lewis University is as good as any ball club in the Midwest, but we still very easily 
could have wonfour games." The hosts almost gained a 
' ~ 
' 
split in Sunday's second game when senior Jim Montagano singled home junior Joe Bar­' rowswith two outin the bottom' 
of the seventh, tying the score 4-4. Lewis picked up two runs in the top ofthe eighth ona walk, a hits bats man and two singles. The Irish were able to load the bases in the bottom of the in­ning before sophomore Rick Chryst grounded to first to end the game. Senior Mike Deasey started throughfive innings before giv­ing up an infield hit to Lewis' Greg Sertichto lead off the sixth. Bob Tumpany then doubled down the right field line putting runners on second · and third.ln backing up the plate on the ensuing throw, i Deasey twisted his ankle and was relieved by junior Tom Conroy. 
"That was unfortunate for both Mike and the team," Gallo said."It was demoralizing for the kids." 
In the first game against Lewis the Irish were credited with no errors in dropping a 4-3 decision, but they did have two runners picked off, a passed ball that led to the tying run and had runners, on one occasion,on first and third with no out and failed to score. 
"Getting picked off is inex­cusable," Gallo said. "It's de­moralizing. Instead of being confident, people say to them­selves,' I hope I don'tgetpicked off."' 
In the opener Chryst was 3­for-3, and Montagano had two hits, including a solo home­run. 
On Saturday, the Irish gained a split against SpringArbor on a combined two hit shutout by sophomore Steve Whitmyer 
the game and had a shutout and freshman Bob Hickey in 
Irish fall to Hoosiers; record stands at' 8-2 
The Notre Dame soccer team dropped its second game of the season yesterday afternoon, falling to Indiana 4-0 at Bloom­ington. The Irish, now 8-2 on the year, lost at St. Louis earlier this season for · their · only other setback., 
The Hoosiers, ranked third nationally and ftrst in the Great Lakes Region with an 8-1-1 slate, scored their ftrst goal with just 5:28 gone when all-American Armando Betan­court scored his ftrst of the game with the assist coming from Greg Kennedy. 
Betancourt went back to work moments later when he scored goal number two for Indiana on a direct kick from about 30 yards out. The kick resulted after Notre Dame's Steve Miller, a senior fullback, was called for a foul which many termed a 'bad call.' 
Betancourt placed the shot perfectly, just below the cross­bar and just beyond the reach of Notre Dame goalkeeper, John Milligan. 
Pat McGaulley comJ?leted his team's ftrst half sconng on a chip shot at the 26:30 mark, givrng Indiana a 3-0 halftime advantage. 
All-American Robert Mesch­bach accounted for the frnal Indiana goal with a crossing shot from the right wing area. 
"I'm pleased with the way we played," said Hunter. "They're just better than us." 
The host Hoosiers outshot the Irish 24-5 with Notre Dame goalke~pers registering nine saves. Indiana's goalies did not have to make a single save. 
The Irish will meet Loyola University tomorrow at 4 p.m. on the Chicago-based school's home fteld. 
game two.Whitmyer hurled the first five innings, giving up one hit and striking out two. 
Notre Dame droppped the opener 6-5 as Barrows was thrown out at the plate to end the game. Chryst had two hits while juniorChuck Tasch and Jamieson each had two runs 
batted in. 
Starting pitcher, junior John Ebert, fell behind 5-0 after three innings before freshman Mark Clementz came in and pitched 3 1/3 innings of re­lief,surrending one run.Szajko, Chryst and Montango each had five hits on the weekend.Mon­t:agano now is hitting an im­pressive .411 with seven extra base hits. The Irish will be at the Bradley Tournament this Sat­urday in Peoria, Ill. The Irish face Indiana State, who they've already defeated twice this fall, Bradley on Saturday and St. Louis on Sunday. 

more specifically for approxi­tackles in last year's campaignmately three to f0ur months. along with two interceptions.
A disheartened Cichy decided Last season Cichy was a ques­to seek a second medical opin­tionable player for the Irish un­ion at the Minnesota clinic and til just prior to the start of that 
journeyed there this past week. 7-4 Irish year. Plagued by in­"They told me I'd be out for juries in his career, Cichy suf­one more week," said Cichy fered from a weakened bone after his trip to Mayo. "I will be structure in his lower back. The able to play the Miami game.' 20-year-old who received the Doctors at the famous clinic Hering Award as most im­told the 6-2, 215-pounder tha:: proved defensive player in the recovery period for his dia_5­nosed crushed vertebrae with a chip shouldbe four to six weeks after the injury occurred. Those same doctorsassured Cichy that the vertebrae would not have any effect on his spir..al cord in anyway should he resume play. "The doctors fig-·.~red I need­ed another week to recover," saidCichy, who "'as an AU-American 1-onorable men­tion selection for his 1979 ef­forts. "I have full movement in my neck. It's just a matter now of getting back into shape." The first medical opinion is­sued recommended that Cichy not rur, or practice at all. The Grace Hall resident was also confbed toa neck brace for two weeks. Cichy, who says he might be­

Steve Cichy should be ready
gin practice today, emphasized 
for the Miami game.

that theMayo doctors were pos­itive he could return to play without worry. spring of 1979 was also both­
"They asured me with no in­ered by a elbow injury suffered decisiveness that I didn't have in the Clemson game last year to worry. It's only natural to be and was forced to sit out both timid when you come off an the Mirage Bowl and 1980 
injury such as this." springseason after an operation 
Cichy, who was replaced by to correct the problem. senior Tom Desiato in Notre ''I'm very happy to be back," Dame's game with Michigan, said Cichy. "It's terrible to work recorded the most time in the so hard and to only get one defensive backfield for anyIrish game in. It's great to be back­player in 1979. The consensus and feel a part of the team prep AU-American tallied 67 again. 
The Bottom Ten 

Vanderbilt-Best of the worst 
by Skip Desjardin and Rob Simari 
The Bottom Ten voters hear a lot of com­plaints from coaches, but none are as legitimate as those of Massachusetts Maritime's Don Ruggeri. Forty-two ofRuggeri's players went to sea on the academy's training ship, "The Bay State". Since the plasayers will not return for another five weeks, Ruggeri's squad will consist of thirty one freshmen and six seniors. 
What with Florida banned from the poll for the rest of the season, and teams like Columbia and Rice sufferring disappointing victories, there are grumblings among the voters for a return to the good ol' days -before parity. Luckily, there are standbys like Northwestern, Kansas_, and Vanderbilt who are valiantly re­sisting the dawn of a new era of mediocrity. 
A Bottom Ten salute goes out to Cortez (Colorado) High School punter Craig Ward. Craig's first punt of this week's game was blocked. Undaunted, Craig lofted his second punt ofthe night high into the air, only to have it land thirty-eight yards behind him. 
For those of you who have nothing to do this weekend, there is an epic battle scheduled in Colorado Springs. That's right, the Air Force­
Yale is Saturday! Any Bottom Ten voter worth his salt wil be there, sogetting a ride shouldbe no problem. 
Here are this week's rankings: 
1) Gloria Vanderbilt University (0-3) their best effort Saturday wa::. trying to miss the bus to Alabama. 
2) Northwestern (0-4) it was only a matter of time 3) Colorado (0-3) 

the Buffalos should have stayed home and watched "'Centennial" on TV 4) UTEP (0-4) welcome back, Miners 5) Kansas (0-3) lost 17-9 to the Louisville Football Cardinals 
6) Cincinnatti (0-4) 
Witchita St., 73-0 losers earlier this season, 
tamed the Bearcats, 13-8 
7) Duke (0-3) losing Gminski to graduation really took its toll 
8) Michigan State (1-2) big deal, they beat Western Michigan 
9) Arkansas (2-1) the Hogs only beat Tulsa 13-10 
10) Larry Holmes 
never bet against the Yankees, Notre Dame, snow in South Bend, or Muhammad Ali 
Also receiving votes: 
Michigan (1-2) 
maybe Bo can arrange an Amos Alonzo Stagg Bowl 
bid for the Wolverines 
Those Amazin' Mets (63-93) 
we really shouldn't pick on them, they're harmless 
Illinois (2-2) 

tied Air Force in the closing minutes 
Quote of the week: 
Darryl Rogen., head coach at Ar '1a St., on freshmen foml.Jall players: "I still bt..ueve that a young man who is 18 and can buy a car, get married, get drunk, fight i ,. his country and die, is mature enough to play i..v!Jege football". 
Darryl gets our votes in November. 




