

... Athleticscholarships -Page 7 
J 1 
l 
J 

Campus groups lobby for sports scholarships 
by Mark Rust News Editor 
Captains of the various var­
sity sports will meet tonight 
with student government repre­
sentatives to discuss ways in 
which they might influence 
the University to reinstate scho­
larships for non-revenue pro­
ducing sports. Student Body 
President Bill Roche has also 
started a petition drive to 
qualify student sentiment, and 
met with University officials 
on three occassions, but other 
than that, according to Roche, 
"there's not much we can do." 
"We just don't have all the 
information we need," Roche 
said yesterday. Fr. Edmund 
Joyce, executive vice-president 
of the University, defended the 
scholarship cut by pointing 
out that hockey, which uses 
20 of the 40 cut scholarships, 
loses ''too much'' money. 
But how much is too much is 
unclear. 
In order for the student 
government to have any effect­
ive voice in the sports funding 
decision, thev need to know 
how much the program act­
ually loses and what can be 
done to reverse the situation. 
) oyce, acco~ciing to Roche, has 
thus far declined to give them 
that information on the grounds 
that it would be "impractical." 
The University informed the athletic department in mid­January that no further scholar­ships would be offered to non­revenue producing sports ''until a firm decision has been reached by the board of Trustees.'' That decision could come as early as Friday, when the executive committee of the board meets in Key Biscayne this weekend. 
According to Dick Conklin, 
director of Information 
Services, the executive board 
is empowered -to make 
decisions for the board. 
"Fr. Joyce told me he didn't know whether the decision would be made then," Roche said. "I think they need to provide us with more information than we are now getting. If they don't make a decision on Friday then that's okay. We just don't want them to make a decision to cut fund­ing without allowing us to have some influence.'' 
Roche said he would be happy if the board decided to re­instate the scholarships. He said he would be unhappy if they decided to definitely keep the cuts without giving the students a chance to voice their opinions. 
In the meantime, no decision by the board would meari that the cuts will occur at least until the full board meets in the late spring. 

Roche said he hopes to bring some of the captains with him to the Grace Pit tonight at 8 p.m., when Fr. Theodore Hesburgh, University president, will address some of these issues. 
Facts pertatntng to the scholarship cut controversy are sketchy: it is unclear, for instance, how much the hockey program actually loses. Three students who recently attended a meeting with Joyce con­cerning the future of the hockey program recalled Joyce using figures as varied as $60,000 and $120,000. Greg Meredith, captain of the hockey team, says the figure is closer to $90,000, depending on the accounting method used. 
But some student government officials, including Vice-Presi­dent Bill Vita and Executive Coordinator Jose Marrero, feel the real issue lies not in how much '.1oney hockey loses, but how mtn:h the University is willing to support hockey and programs like it. 
"Fr. Joyce has insinuated that students do not support hockey, but even if prices were increased to $4 and attendance doubled that still would be a drop in the bucket compared to what the University says hockey loses,'' Vita said. 
[Continued on page 8] 

In Persian Gulf 


U.S. receives access to bases 
WASHINGTON (~P). -An said the officials, who asked not administration is planning to American military mtsston re­to be named. create a 110,000-man rapid turned yesterday from a week Since the ouster of the pro · de:ployment force. for use in long trip to East Africa and the western monarchy in Iran a military emergenctes. Middle East with commitments year ago, the United States has Discussions are also under from three countries to allow been seeking ways to expand its way on improving intelligence increased U.S. access to milita­military capability in the Per-gathering methods to keep ry facilities, U.S. officials say. sian Gulf and the Indian Ocean abreast of political currents in 
The reponed agreements regions to cope with spreading the region. reached with Kenya, Somalia political tuwmoil. ..__ Last month President Carter and Oman also would grant the Part of this search has inclu-declared the Persian Gulf a United States the rights to store ded a search for a "host country "viral interest" of the United military equipment and fuel. In support" for U.S. air and naval States amf that he would not return for their cooperation the forces. Late last year the ad-hesitate to use force to protect it three countries would receive ministration decided this role against outside efforts to gain increased amounts of U.S. mili­might be filled by Oman, Kenya . control of oil fields. tary aid although the amounts ans Somalia. 
[Continued on page 9]
have not yet been specified, As an additional measure the 

0 'Mearafields questions from Faculty Senate 
by Annman'e Storz 

University Provost Timothy O'Meara, speaking to the Faculty Senate last night in the CCE, responded to a vanety of questions raised by the 36 memhers in attendance. O'Meara requested that a greatdeal of the subject matter concerning such issues as tenure appeals, faculty salaries andpay raises, and other issues be "off the record. '' 
O'Meara has, he said "reservations" about the action being taken concerning tenure appeal procedures. He feels that the "appeals committee should not apply academic standards between departments" in tenure cases, although, "a committee could say a tenure package was not handled seriously, or there was a prejudice, or something crucial missing that should have been contained in the package.'' 
Thirty-three cases were up for consideration this year -double the amount for last year according to O'Meara. 
Course evaluations were discussed by Prof. Stephen Batill, representing the committee on Student Affairs. A Faculty Attitude survey conducted early this year discovered over 50 percent of the faculty wants to ''get rid of the course evaluations completely'' and 70 percent expressed dissatisfaction with the way evaluations were used in admmistrative decisions. 
O'Meara said that "they don't appear at promotion meetings" and scores must be utilized in the department chairman's overall evaluation of a candidate as a teacher. 

All 66 departments in the University have a Committee on Appointments and Promotions which evaluate tenure packages before it ttavels successively to the department chairman, the dean of the college, and finally to a committee composed of the Provost and others 
The problem concerning cheating at Notre Dame and the financial situation faced by retired professors were also discussed ''off the reco:-d'' 
1 rwin Press, professor of anthropology, raised the issue of the attitude expressed by seniors. He feels tha~ they are "screwing off' and the administration must face this problem concerning the lack of academic seriousness in the senior year. 
O'Meara said that "teachers have to be as tough as they can be" and although "we have a problem in standards, our standards are better than most places.'' He said we are not fostering intellectual curiosity in our students. We are getting them into medical school but are we producing Catholic intellectuals?" 
O'Meara was asked to tell the senate what he feels are his accomplishments, failures and priorities as provost. In his one-and -a-half years as provost, O'Meara said he has "tried to continue the evolution of the University in the area of scholarship." He '''tries to base decisions, never with personalties in mind, but with 
[Continued on page 3J 
Roche speaks toHPC on hockey fate 
by Tom Hay Senior StaffReporter 
The future of the hockey team 
and new proposals for party 
guidelines were the topics 
headlining last night's HPC 
meeting in Lyons Hall. 
Bill Roche, student body pre­
sident, expressed concern over 
the pending fate of the Notre 
Dame hockey program. ''Hoc­
key is really in jeopardy right 
now," RQche said. "There 
are several issues involved in 
the whole athletic scene, in-­
eluding Title IX, but right now 
the urgency is on hockey.'' 
Roche admitted that he was 
not certain then the adminis­
tration would make know their 
posmon on non-revenue pro­
ducing sports, but he added 
that a decision could come 
very soon. 
"We don't know if they will make their decision this week, in May, or whenever, but right now, theoretically, hockey could get bagged on Friday," 
Roche said. 
HPC Chairman Ellen Dorney pointed out that the issue was ''not hockey versus women's sports, but hockey for hockey's sake." 
Roche initiated a petition drive to voice student opposition to the proposed elimination of hockey scholarships. ''What we're looking for is a concrete expression of student support. I hope the administration will take that into account when they make their decision on hockey,'' he said. 
Roche said he hoped the petitions will allow some stu­dent input into the decision making process, but added, "Going out to the games is certainly going to help alot too.'' 
Petitions will be available in the dining halls today, and 
[Continued on page 4] 


New-s in brief  Wednesday, February 13, 1980-page 2  
Italian terrorists shoot Roman Catholic activist ROME -A young woman and a bea,rded male shot and killed one of Italy's leading Roman Catholic acivists yesterday as he walked out of his law class into a hallway at the University of Rome, polic reponed. Callers to two newspapers several hours after the attack claimed it was the work of the Red Brigades, Italy's most feared terrorist gang. Vittorio Bachelet, 54, a top Italian judge, was the 11th person killed bt terrorists since 1976. He presumably was chosen for assasination because of high ranking in the governing body of Italy's judicial system. The Red Brigades have vowed to strike Jt governmental agencies. Bachelet had served as consultant to the Vatican and was a ll>ng time acquaintanle of PopeJohn Paul II, who condemned the attack as''abvminable crimes to stain the beloved city of Rtlme with blood." Bachelet was a former president of the Italian Catholic Action, a worldwide lay organization. In 1967, he first met the Pope the archbisop of Krakow, Poland, and they served together on the pontifical comission for the laity. Carter sends Marines to deter Soviets • WASHINGTON -The United States will send a Marine amphibious force into the Indian Ocean-Arabian Sea area next month in a new Carter administration move aimed at deterring any Soviet designs on the Persian gulf area, it was reported Tuesday night. The mission of the battalion .. sized force marks the first time that Marine combat troops will have been introduced by the United States into the Indian Ocean region. Previously, the only Marines assigned there were a handful serving as security guards aboard Navy ships. Administration officials said that a four-ship Navy amphibious force with 1,800 Marines, helicopters, tanks and arrillery arrived Tuesday at the U.S. Navy base in the Phillippines. The source who asked not to be identified, said that after abuur rwo weeks of exercises there, the Marine amphibious unit will then sail aboard the four ships into the Indian Ocean and join up with powerful U.S. Naval formations which have been patrolling in the Arabian Sea within reach of the mouth of the Persian Gulf. Weather ~artly cloudy Wednesday. Highs in the low 20s,. Cloudy wtth a 40 percent chance of snow Wednesday night and !hursday. Lows Wednesday night near 10. Highs Thursday tn the low 20s.  Prosecution rests in Pinto trial WINAMAC* Ind. (AP) -The similar to a step -because itStaffeldt dismissed a defense pr•)secution rested its case yes­was designed to fit the pre-de­motion to strike testimony by terday in Ford Motor Co.'s termi_ned styling of the car'sMattie Ulrich, the rr. Jther of reckless homicide trial after one extenor.two of the victims in th : Indiana last unsuccessful attempt to ''The engineers were left with Pinto, that a recall not .ce on the introduce key {·vidence on auto a minimum of space for thecar came six months after the crash t~sts. spare tire, fuel tank and lug­crash. . Pulaski Circuit Judge Harold gage C\. mpartment," he said.Mrs. Ulrich said she woul~ not R. Stafieldt turned down Ford "If you don't believe me, justhave allowed her daughters and attcrney James F. Neal's re­look at the wierd .::hape of thattheir cousin to take the car had quest for a directed verdict of fuel tank."she known about the recall aquitta!, and the automaker will In earlier testimony, Copp said before the accident. Asked begin rresenting its defense the s~1ape of the tank, and thewhat she would have done if Wednesday. way in which it was constructe .:1she had received the warning ''I agn·e with (the prosecu­made it more likely to explod.:earlier, she replied, "I would tion) tha. there is a question for in rear-end collisions. Thehave got rid of it (the Pinto)." rhe jury, and where there is a step-shape gave the tank aFord announced in June 1978 lower breaking point than otherquestion for the jury it would be that it was recalling 1. 5 million subcompact tanks that were flaterror to do anythmg other than Pintos and Mercury Bobcats and unifor:n, he said.deny the motion,'' Staffeldt made between 1971 and 1976 Copp said then-Ford Presidentsaid. · because of government tests Lee A. Iacocca, now chairmanFord attorneys, in asking for showing the fuel tanks leaked of Chrysler Corp., determinedrhe directed verdict, argued the large amounts of fuel in moder-the f>into' s exterior style first.state failed to prove Ford ate speed rear-end collisions. Engineers then were ''Lockedrecklessly failed to warn con­However, modifications to re­into styling and locked intosumers of possible Pinto de­duce the fire hazard were costs," Copp said.fects, and that recklessness delayed until repair kits began resulted in the death of three arriving at dealers in Septem­teen-agers in August 1978. ber, 1978 -a month after the The three girls burned to Indiana accident. Dom.e seeks death i:1 a 1973 Pinto sedan that The prosecution's final wit­explod~d when struck from ness, former Ford executive behind on a northern Indiana Harley Copp, completed six new-editorhighway. Ford faces three days of testimony yesterday coums of reckless homicide in saying style came before safety connection with the accident. in the Pinto design. for '80-'81The state contends the auto­Copp, who was Ford's vice Anyone interested in runningmaker knew Pinto fuel tanks president for European opera­for the position of Editor-in­were subject to explosion in tions and later supervised crash Chief of the Dome, the Univer­rear-end collisions but did noth­tests in the United States, said sity yearbook, should contact AIing about it. The defense says the fuel tank on the 1973 Pinto Dreyer at 3138, 7524, or 7308 by the Pinto was no more danger­subcompact had an odd shape-next Monday..:Jus, and possibly a little safer, than other subcompacts. Before resting his case; chief prosecutor Michael Cosentino Sf. AUGUS'!IRB'S PAB.ISRattempted to enter as evidence results of crash tests on vehi­GOSPEL CHOIR cles other than the 1973 Pinto and on Pintos made before and CCJI1)pus after 1973. He argued that the m1n1stry tests would reveal a pattern will participate in the !0:30a.m. showing Ford knew of defects in the Pineo from the time it Mass at Sacred Heart Churchfirst was produced in 1970 but refused to make modification to on Sundayl'ebJ;Dary 17th.eliminate fire hazards and failed to warn the public.. As he has done rel?eatedly · during the six-week tnal Staf­feldt ruled those crash tests were lrrelevant to the Indiana Spring B~eakoutr l case and refused to allow them as e"idence. South Bend to Ft. Lauderdale Charter at $189.00_The Observer_ Night Editor:Ann Monaghan March 29-April 5 Asst. Night Editor: Danny T arullo, Mike Jans Hotel rooms available Copy Editor: M:. B. Moran Layout Staff: Mary Leavitt First Bank Travel in Badin News Editor: Mike Sheilds Editorial Layout: Ann Gales Sports Layout: Micheal On­man, Brian Beglane ·Will£ im1J<&JfUJt9 Sports Copy Editor: Brian "SMC" Beglane ®111Wilf£Typists: Carol Cornwall, Paula Shea, Katie Bigane, Kathy Murray, Kathy Pes­(@H£N·~tin, Ann Monaghan Proofreader: John Chaussee QTA&UJ1L£ND Day Editor: Keith Mel­ 
Catnn_us_~  
:\;1111 SEMINAR "radiation chemistry of neutral iron (II) s<~luti{ .1,'' prof. zagorski, inst. of nuclear research, warsaw, poLllld CONFERENCE ROOM RAD. LAB. 1 )0 pm SEMINAR "synthesis of B-lactam antibiotics & ~~·her nat ural products from hydroxamic acids," prof. marvin milln, nd 123 NIEUWLAND ·• prn OPE~ FORUM review of sr. mary's parkmg regulations Ll~.\1:\~~ LOBBY •, W prn MEETING alpha phi omega fraternity LAFORTUNE I.I!TLE THEATRE (>· _)0 prn MEETING sailing club 204 O'SHAG  
~ -!) prn 1\EADING GROUP "rhe international woman's e-:perience: kate chopin's. the awakening," 331 O'SHAG ~pm SPEECH father hesburgh with question and answer peri1>d GRACE HALL PIT H pm PERfORMING ARTS SERIES opera highlights with buris poldov">ky O'LAUGHLIN ALJD. SMC l:l prn LECTL'RE "can the u.s. help build a just world?" dr. denis gouler, nd 122 HAYES HEALY Hpm PERSPECTIVE LECTURE SERIES "ascribing beliefs: a problem," prof. robert stalnaker, cornell u. GALVIN AUD. 9 pm MEETING knights of columbus K OF C HALL  argno Photographer: Berh Prezio Aprofessional Hair Cutting Salon, just forGuest Appearances: The Equestriene, Jimmy, Mr. you, at a price that is affordable. Bill, Rose A complete Hair Cut, Blow Style and The Observer [USPS • 920] It Condition.S9.00published Monday through Frictly II· cept during nam and viCitilft pwilds. The Observer is publisllld Ill dll if you have a WRBR Money Card we students of Notre 011111 ad Saillt Mary's Cllllge. Stlbscrl,uhb lillY Ill will give you another S1.00 offpurchased for S2D per ye~r [$11 perIIIMitlrl frtm The Observe!', l-.0. bll 0. Nttrl bame, llldiana 4111551. SICIICI tues-wed 8:30-6:00ctau = paid, Nltrt 011111, lit­diana . thurs-fri 8:30-8:30The Observer is a rnlfttblr If till Auociattd Pma. AH IIPII.&ctllrt CALL 277-1691 sat 8:30-5:00riglltl lrt reMMd.  


{ ~ 
' 
The Observer Wednesday, February 13, 1980-page 3 
J



IOC rejects call for boycott 

LAKE PLACID, N.Y. (AP) ­The International Olympic Committee announced yester­day the Olympic Games will go on in Moscow as planned, thus rejecting President Caner's call that they be moved or cancelled because of the Soviet interven­tion in Afghanistan. 

The committee also urged that members of the Olympic organizing committee in Mos­cow inform the "highest au­thorities of their government of the circumstances which have created these difficulties for so many (National Olympic Com­mittees)." 
Lord Killanin, president of the l OC, said that all 7 3 members attending the IOC general session before the Win­ter Olympics had voted to keep the Summer Games in Mvscow. 
According to the U.S. State Department, more than 30 gov­ernments--as opposed to Olym­pi(: committees--have called for movement, postponement or cancellation of the Games. 
Killanin said the IOC recog­nized the difficulties the United States Olympic Committee faced but urged it to ''(:ontinue irs efforts ro make possible the participation of irs athletes in the Games'' 
The U.S. committee had pre­sented the IOC with Carter's demands. 
The IOC had been deliberat­ing for three days, although there was .little doubt that the 

Khomeini holds key to hostages 
(AP) -Freedom will come for the American hostages in' Iran only if their release is ordered by Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomei­ni~ .the leader of the embassy mthtants was quoted as saying yesterday by a Persian Gulf 
newspaper.  He  said  Iran's  
president  should  stay  out  of  
the hostage isfue.  

The militant.-., meanwhile, carne under attack from Iran's Ambassador to the Uni.led Na­tions, who said in Geneva, Switzerland that they were beginning to lose credibility with the Iranian /eople'' and had gone "beyon their task." 
In an interview with the Asso­ciated Press, U.N. Ambassador Nansour Farhang said the em­bassy seizure Nov. 4 was "nev­er condoned" by the Revolu­tionary Council. Iran, he added, "is not interested in the Shah in terms of flesh and blood. We are interested in concepts, not revenge.'' 
According w the Abu Dhabi newspaper Al-lttihad, the mili­tants' leader, who was not identified by name, said his group rejected President Abol­hassan Bani-Sadr's proposed compromise solution for releas­ing the Americans, in their lOlst day of captivity Tuesday at the U.S. Embassy in Tehran. 
He said the militants would help Bani-Sadr in his role as president "but he should not interfere in issues that are not dealt with in the constitution, such as the hostages issue,'' he was quoted as saying. 
ln an interview with French radio and television, Bani-Sadr repeated he would be willing to free the hostages in a matter of days if the United States admit­ted to its past wr0ngs in Iran, pledged not to interfere in its future and recognized Iran's right to obtain extradition of the deposed shah and his wealth, Tehran radio reported. He first made the offer in an interview published Monday in the 'French newspaper, Le Monde. 
The Stare Department said the 
U.S. government would not offer any apology. 
There was no ·comment from deposed Shah Mohammad Reza Pahlavi, living in Panama after receiving medical treatment in the United States at the time the embassy was seized. 
''The imam blessed our ac­tion," the militants' leader was quoted as saying. ~'The imam has not changed his position yet on the release of the hostages and I cannot see how other people can change their posi­tion. If the president has a different opinion then let him take it up with the imam ... The operation still has the imam's support and is in line with his teachings. We will never do anything against his wishes.'' 
Bani-Sadr has said he and the Revolutionary Council which he heads have sent to Khomeini their proposal on releasing the estimated 50 hostages that he is waiting for a response, possibly in the next few days. 

... O'Meara 
[Continued from page I] 

the long term policies of the University in mind.'' 
0' Meara cited faculty salaries as his first priority, recog­nizing that increases, particu­larly in some colleges, are not keeping pace with inflation. He also cited the need for faculty development money, graduate students, library improvement, "Concern with the intellectual curisoity, devel­opment, and strength of the student body'' and finally "concern about reports on the problem of alcohol on campus.'' 
Tenure procedures were another topic of discussion at the meeting. Some faculty members expressed dissatisfac­tion with "insensitivity" of the administration concerning the date of arrival of some "final notices" last year. Whether a. notice comes as a surprise or is known m advance, according to 0' Meara, depends on the de­
partment  chairman's  strength  
and  the  receptivity  of  the  
faculty."  

Michael Francis, representing the committee on administra­tion, expressed the dissatis­faction of some departments with the allocation of funds for research. Those depart­ments without graduate study seem to be receiving different amounts for research. 
Press concurred in his "fear that good teaching is being downplayed in those depart­ments withour graduate pro­grams." 
According to 0' Me<:~.ra, the $3)0,000 grant which the Arts and Letters college recent­ly acquired may be utilized in the alleviation of this prob­lem. 0'Meara was asked about what he has done to encourage the quantity of research, spe­cifically in terms of grant1ng leaves of absence and improv­ing the library. The pro­vost said he is "pushing for a faculty office building" and offers "verbal encouragement to increase the quality not quantity of research.'' 
The Faculty Senate plans to discuss and vote on recom­mendations for appeals pro­cedures in tenure cc;tses, and to pass recommendations con­cerning the use of course evaluations as a method of determining teacher quality in its two remaining meetings this year. 

members would abide by their agreement with the Moscow Organizing Committee. 
"The IOC is fully aware of, and sensitive to, the world conditions which have created the most serious challenge to confront the Olympic Games,'' Killanin said in a news confer­
ence Tuesday night.  He  con­ 
cluded:  
''The IOC  cannot  solve the  

political problems of the world, but calls upon the governments of all countries, and in particu­lar those of the major powers, to come together to resolve their differences, and I, as president of the IOC, and all members, will do everything in our power to assist in this so that the Games of the XXIInd Olympiad can take place in the right atmosphere.'' 
Killanin noted that all 142 recognized national Olympic committees are bound by Olym­pic rules and they alone, and nor their governments, can accept or refuse invitations to the Olympic games. Carter has said that if the 
Soviets do not pull their troops out by Feb. 20, and the Games are not moved or cancelled, he would not want U.S. athletes to participate. 
The president reiterated that position yesterday through press spokesman Jody Powell m Washington. Powell was responding to a report in the Washington Post that the Unit­ed States might prolong the ultimatum until May 24--the date the U.S. Olympic Commit­tee has to send in Its entry for the Summer Games. 
Meanwhile, New York stare's highest court cleared the wav for the first team from Mainland China since the 1949 commun· ist revolution to participate in the Olympics. 
In a unanimous rutin~. tht' New York Court of Appeals refused to strike down an lOC rule barring the ream from Taiwan from <:ompering under the flag and anthem of tht' Republic of China. The high 
court acted on  an appeal from  
attorneys  for  rhe  Taiwanest'  
athletes.  



------------~~~-~~~­
1980 CH££R.C£AOOKG 
T~~Ki;ct 
7:00 fJHt ~. ft!. 14 iK lice A.C.C. 'Pit 




The Observer Wednesday,February 13, 1980-page 4 
1 
7 
7 
I 
~ 
l 
r 
l 
"/ 
'r
,, 
~ 

Tex Brady, ventun"ng into the world offine Italian cuisine, tastes his creation, at first ter:tatlve~y then tn·umphantly. [Photo by Beth Prezio] 
FBI foils underworldsummit 



ND fares better than area in battling flu outbreak 
Lynne Daley thing beyond the flu," he said. Staff Reporter Thompson advised students who suspect they have the flu to This year· s outbreak of flu at drink plenty of water-based the Univer . ..;ity is of "moderate" fluids and take aspirin. "With in1 ensity, according to Univer­the flu, you can only treat the 
sitv Physician Robert Thomp­symptoms. It won't respond to so:l. antibiotics,'' Thompson said. 
"Our outbreCJk has not been ex: reme," Thomps.)n said. He es1 imated that 25-30 students 

Hesburgh
have been admitred to the infrrmary for flu symptoms since Chri~rmas break. • • "\'(!hen you compare that to the 

openscnsts
. couple hundred or :-;o case~ we had a few years ago, we're not so badly off,' 'Thompson said. 
Tlwmpson anribures the re­

committee 
portedly high absentee rate in cla..;ses to rhe number of stu­dents who may have the symp­Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgb, toms and choose to stay home. president of the University, was Only the more extreme cases one of four conveners of a are actually admitted to the National Cambodia Crisis infirmary. · Committee (NCCC) meeting 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The source said. 'There were a the FBI director, had resisted The city of South Bend has a with Rosalyn Carter January 29
I 

. . .
FBJ has evidence crime syndi-variety of modifications in the urgmgs to mvesttgate organ-more serious problem with the in the White House. 
care bosses were planning as works.'' ized crime. After New York virus. According to Nurse Its purpose was to launch a recently as last week to call a The sources declined to say state police disclosed the Apal­Nancy McMillan ofSt. Joseph's $100 million fund-raising effort summit conference and carve where the summit was to have achin summit, Hoover was Hospital, "We've had a lot in the private sector for Cam­new boundaries in underworld forced to pay attention to crime more cases in the last month bodian relief. In remarks ro the
taken place.
fiefdoms spanning the nation, syndicates. than usual.·· group of business and labor knowledgeable sources say. The first hint of the under-Several elementary schools ir.· leaders, educators, entertain­
But it was not until the 1970s
But FBI officials now believe world ylan surfaced when a South Bend were closed be­ers, and religious and civic
that the bureau focused on
the sess~on was Lancc!~d after :elrer Hvm Assistant Attorney cause of rhe high absentee rate. leaders, Hesburgh reported_
organized crime in a major way. 
public disclosure of bureau General Philip Heymann was Now, "there may be 12-17 kids that some $30 mtllion dollars mvestigations, including Brilab made public in federal court in When William H. Webster out of each class,'' McMillan had been raised from non-gov­the sources said. . Los Angeles cri Friday. Hey-said.
took over as director two years ernmental sources since last 
The secret summit, involving mann wrote that the FBI ''is on ago, he acceler::tted the investi­1\kMillan added that there October. While the threat of crime bosses from an undeter-the verge of developing evi­gations with more sophisticated havl' also been ~everal cases of mass starvation has lifted in mined number of cities, was dence regarding a massive, pneumonia. With pneumonia, Cambodia, he said, there is still 
techniques, often employing
said to equal in scope the nationwide consp!racy relating court-authorized wiretaps and the patient has more trouble widespread hunger that cannot notorious 1957 conclave of more to the allocation of territories in agents working undercover for breathing, due to pain and be alleviated internally until than 60 mob leaders in Apala-the United States for certain congestion. Flu is indicated by Until then,
months at a stretch. next fall's harvest. 
chin, N.Y. types of illicit activities." the presence of a high tempera­the country will be totally
Evideuce of the new gangland
The FBI learned of the The planned conclave was ture. ·vomiting,· and muscle dependant on outside aid and
summit was developed partly
planned session through sever-reminiscent of the Appalachin aches. needs some 30,000 tons of food al major investigations of orga-summit, which startled the from the Southwest insurance Air hough there has been only each month.
investigation, another long-run­one verified case of pneumonia
nized crime, including Brilab, nation with the strongest evi­President Carter's wife host­
ning FBI probe of organized at Notre Dame, Thompson
the undercover probe of mob dence to date that a national ed the meeting and addressed
crime in the Midwest, and at urged srudems to go the
to

involvement in insurance bribe-crime syndicate did, indeed, the group, as she had at a
least one other separate but
ry and kickbacks in the South-exts· t· .. infirmary if they feel very ill. similar gathering in the White west, said sources familiar with. ' interwoven investigation of or­'·I1 helps in that we can check a House last November 13, short-. 
the investigations. Until then, J. Edgar Hoover, ganized crime. pers\Hl to make surf" it's no­ly after returning from a trip to 
The sources, who requested ==================================================================================== Southeast Asia. 
anonymity, said mob leaders Hesburgh' s first involvement were drafting plans to alter the in the. Cambodian aid program boundaries and terms of agree­came last October 23, when as


Hockey

ments giving each of them ' ' ' chairman of the Overseas De­exclusive rights to a certain velopment Council, he led a geographic region. The mob­[Continued from page 1) guidelines were brought up at Riehle pointed out that two delegation to the White House sters involved are the bosses of the meeting by Keenan Hall changes in University parry that secured President Carter's the syndicate the FBI calls La Roche hopes to get enough President Paul Riehle. polictes were approved last committment of $69 million in Cosa Nostra. response to present them to Riehle, the HPC representa­semester, but have not yet federal aid for the ravaged 
"This included narcotics traf­Fr. Hesburgh tonight at 8 p.m. tive to the CLC, said the sug­been incorporated into the of­Southeast Asian country. fic and everything else organ­when he speaks in Grace Hall. gested guidelines are being ficial written record. ized crime is involved in,'' one New Proposals for party room considered by Fr. John Van­''One thing is that the hall 
Wolvlear, vice president for staff and the hall council now Student Affairs. The pro­have input into the party policy 
P.E. Dept.
posals have been brought up in each hall. Another thing

SENIOR BAR PRESENTS: 
before the CLC, but couldn't approved, but not yet changed be voted on at the time be­in writing allows parties on cause a quorum was not pre­weeknights in the designated 



to offer 
sent. party room of each dorm at According to Riehle, the main the discretion of the rector," 
'' LIVE mUSIC " 
emphasis of the projected he said. guidelines is to allow each hall Riehle emphasized that there ski classes to have more power over its is nothing in the official own party policies. guidelines that requires a 
The ressurection of limited ''guest list~' for parties held The Phys. Ed. Department
in the Pub 
private parties involving more in hall party rooms. intends to offer two more cross than one room is one sugges­Also at last night's meeti~g, country ski classe::; this winter. tion under consideratwn. a campus group representtng Each consists of four two-hour
TONIGHT WEDNESDAY FEB. 13th 
. Riehle stressed that it would the Farm Labor Organizing sessions in the late afternoon . not mean a return to section Committee (FLOC), outlined Tuesday-Thursday classeS will parties, but would lend a lit­their efforts and solicited the meet from 3-5 p.m. beginning tle more flexibility to the pre­support of the HPC tomorrow, and Monday-Wed­sent policy. The group hopes to gain fif­nesday-Friday class will meet 
I 

I A small private party could ty percent student support of a from 3:15-5:15 p.m. beginning take place in one or more vote that would ban Camp­this Friday. The cost of $35 private residence rooms, but bell's and Libbey's products includes the lessons, rental of 
not in the corridor," he said. from the Notre Dame campus equipment for class time, and "Alcohol will still not be al­because of objectionable prac­the use of equipment over one lowed in the corridors." tices concerning migrant farm weekend. 
workers. The vote is to be This is offered as an elective
Riehle said he also believed that the number of people included on the student govern­activity in P.E. but as space allowed to attend should be ment election ballot. allows others may register. established ·within Other matters brought up Pre-registration and prepay­
established within each indi­by the council included hall ment required so that proper equipment will be available at
vidual hall. "There is a twen­funds, the Ugly Man on ty person attendance limit right Campus contest, and the sale class time. For more informa­
of posters to benefit Cambo­tion contact P.E. Department at
now (Universi.t:y-wide), and we 
219 Rockne Memorial.
want to change that,". hesaid.. dian children. 
\ ' , '. ' .. ~.... ,'i 

.. •' ~.....·-·c .... ._.
.---· ,j 
~--­

.... . -...· 

~ .. .. ... -_,. ...... 
·-·~·-···­

I( 'f 
• ,.
~. 
' I 

,·
/ 
! ' 
The Observer 
~ELATlOl'ISflll' BE1'1!11'iEN f}•F U:Vl\L A.'ltl SEl, COLUG£ CLASS, 1\Nll CdtADE POl NT AVEIIAG£, IN PEJICEHT 
Q•F UVEL 

Jnrn-Moderate­.,u.,tly Light "'occorote Heovv Heavy
~ 
~ 
S£X 

14&3 1.3 ~.1 10.1 17.9 30.7 l-4 .a WoiiiCn 7611 1.8 14.3 26.0 27.7 2Z,4 7.8 
•~n 
COLLEGE CLASS 

Frc:shloen 665 l.4 9,0 15.9 21.5 l6.11 2•• 2 SoJihOIIOJ'O.& 508 1.8 9.1 13.2 20.1) 27.~ ZII.O ·~:. Juniors Sl? ~.~ 1.9 16.6 U.6 29,4 2~.3 Scnh>rs 400 l.O 7.0 16,3 ZS.l · 29.3 ll.l
.. 
r~OE POINT AVERAGE 

4.0 • 3.$0 404 1.$ 10.1 16.8 Zl.S 21.0 ll.O 
3.49 • 3.00 9.32 1.8 7.4 17.5 23.8 27.1 22.3 
2.99 • 2.50 6~1 1. 3 11.1 12.7 lt.7 30,!'1 2f.3 l.4!1 • 2.00 244 1.2 7.8 12.7 26,2 lo4 ••
17.2.... 
... 
~ 


Wednesday, February 13, 1980-page 5 
Heavy drinking at ND 



Survey yields unusual results 
Kelli Flint five dorms on campus. A and driving after drinking at StaffReporter sample of 2356 students found some point in their lives, as the that: 66.3 percent were men, result of drinking. Twenty. six percent of Notre 33.7 percent were women, 29.2 Ninety percent of the studentsDame students are heavy drin­percent Freshman, 22.2 percent reported drinking at least once
kers, o·.1er twice the number of were Sophomores, 22.2 percent 
a year. The findings suggest
heavy drinking students nation­wereJuniors, 17.2 percent were that a somewhat higher percen­wide, accordmg to a report Seniors, and 9.1 percent were tage of men are drinking now,released by the department of from other levels. 
compared with 30, 10, and 5
Psychological· Services. 
Most of the students drank at years ago. There has also been
The report, entitled Alcohol 
least once a year, and about a steady increase in the percen­
Use and Abuse at Notre Dame, 
three-quarters drank at least tage of women who consume
summarizes the results of a poll 
once a month or more. Of these alcohol.
taken last fall covering twenty· 
students, 86.5 percent drank 
Approximately 95 percent of
beer, 49 percent drank wine, 
both seniors and freshmen re­
. and 66.2 percent spirits at least 
. ported drinking beer at least 
once a year. Approximately ten once a year. There appeared topercent of all students appear be no significant difference
Mayor denies bar crackdown 
to be abstainers or infrequent between seniors and freshmendrinkers. 
in the frequency and quantity of 
new mayor. " consideration.'' When compared with a nation­
Tom Koegel drinking beer, wine or spirits.
StaffReporter One bar owner had also saiJ al sample of college students,
Parent denied such accusa­Pelligrini noted that these
that he believed the South Bend Notre Dame students weretions as ''outrageous''. ''I have statistics would not be aspolice were raiding the bars and significantly above the average
South Bend Mayor Roger Par­not told the police in anv kind of if students not
. . '' . alarming had
were 1gnormg more senous in the categories of light drinker 
ent said yesterday that he "had direct way to 'crackd;>wn' on started drinking at such an
crime in the process. moderate-heavy drinker, and
not told the police in any kind of bars in the Five Points area," early age. "Many students are
"I consider the kinds of things heavy drinker. 
clirect way to 'crackdown' on he said. Furthermore, he experienced drinkers as fresh­
bars in the Five Poims area.'' claimed that ''any accusation that have happened in that area Wayne Pelligrini, a clinical men," he said. He called accusations of mayor­that that area had been singled (at various bar locations) as psychologist with the alcohol 
very serious,'' Parent stared., program, seemed surprised by The relationship between theal pressure made by neighbor­out is totally unfounded.'' 
He noted that the recent inves­the number of heavy drinkers. quantity-frequency level ofhood bar owners published in Parent pointed out that when tigations at the bars are in part ''I was also alarmed by the age drinking and the use of illicitThe Observer ''totally unfoun­he was a councilman he related to events which oc­at which students started drink­drugs appears to be significant. 
ded." ''fought long and hard to make curred last semester, and com­ing, which is significantly youn­Approximately 68.5 percent of
The bar owners had daimed sure that bars be very careful 
plaints received from local resi­ger than in previous surveys,'' the heavy drinkers reportedthat they were the victims of about the way their business is dents. Pelligrini said. using illicit drugs and 50 per­"harassment" from both the run. Those bars which are ''Last semester in that area, Patricia Crosson, director of cent of the moderate-heavymayor's office and local en­locatea ;:1 a neighborhood area we had a situation where we the alcohol program, noted that drinkers, compared to 28 per­forcement agencies connection (like Five Points) have to be had numerous complaints from the survey may seem conserva­cent of the moderate drinkers, 8with the major increase in the very careful about their opera­
• 0 I 
people in the neighborhood,'' tive. "The survey was done percent of the light drinkers, 5number of raids. tlOnS. 
Parent said. "It was a situation over a 30 year period, with the percent of the infrequent drink­The majority of the bar owners 
Parent noted that the police where the police had to be same criteria,'' Crosson said. ers, and 3 percent of thefeelings at the time of the 
department, in formulating called in for crowd control, PeHigrini added that most abstainers. A significantlyoriginal article were summed their policy toward the bars, rather than for raids. That's students who checked the higher number of males (45
up by one owner who simply "might have looked at my not the kind of thing police heavy drinking category felt percent) reported being users stated, "We're sun; it's the tough record and taken it into 
should have to do.'' that the qualifications for that of illicit drugs compared to 28 category were outdated. ''Now percent of the females sur­students drink five or more veyed. drinks three times per week or 
Margaret Cronin, alcohol 
more, instead of once per week, counselor, feels that students


Pakistan receives warning 
as the survey stated." 
attitudes nurture further accep­Approximately 13 percent of tance of drinking problems.
NEW DELHI, India (AP) -Pakistan will "undermine its gave no indication. the students reported no prob­''Most dorms allot 2 5 percent of
Foreign Minister Andrei A. posltlon as an independent Gromyko defended the Soviet lems, as the result of drinking. 
their funds for food and drink
Grornyko of the Soviet Union state" if it allows the United intervention, attacked the Unit­About 17 percent reported one for hall parties. The drinks are
accused the United States yes­States and its allies to convert it ed States and China and deli­or two problems, and about 35 terday of subverting detente into "a springboard for further vered the warning to Pakistan, percent reported three or four supposed to be nonalcoholic, and warned Pakistar: it risks its escalation of aggression" a­which is slated ro receive abour problems as the result of drink­yet beer is usually served. This independence by backing A­gainst pro-Moscow Afghanis­$400 million in U.S. arms aid. in~. takes pway the rights of rhe 
abstainer. They're the suffer­
merica and China in the Af­tan, Gromyko said in a speech He said the United States Most students reported himg­
ghanistan crisis. delivered 2t a ~anquet given in was using Pakistan in an ''in­overs, nausea and vomiting, ing few on campus.'· his honor by ln<:ia' s Foreign crease of international tension Minister, P.V.N. !lao. for subversion of world detente 
Gromyko's strong ,·ords and escalation of the arms race, 

HEALTH
came after a Iirst round of talks which has been pursued by her with Indian leaders on the fo.r quite a long time.'' Afghan situation during an ''The same road is followed 


jury gives 

PROFESSIONALS 
official two-day visit here. by the 'Peking leadership, 
Prime Minister Indira Gandhi, which pursues the course of the a long-time friend of Moscow, great-power hegemonistic poli­is making low-key efforts to cy," Gromyko said. defuse the Afghanistan crisis He said it was ''absurd and 


Bundy death 

sentence and get the estimated 90,000 dishonorable'', to blame Soviet Soviet troops withdrawn from action in Afghanistan for in­the neighboring country. creased regional and world 
ORLANDO, Florida (AP) ­
If the Soviet foreign minister tensions. ''The responsibility

Calling it "a tragedy that a life was persuaded by the cautious for this entirely rests with the a
such as yours was wasted," and friendly statements of Mrs. forces of imperialism, first of all judge yesterda} sentenced The Gandhi and Rao during their certain circles of the USA which odore R. Bundy to die in three hours of meetings, he are possessed with the idea of 
Florida's electric chair for the military superiority, which 1978 murder of a 12-year-old would like to change in their schoolgirl. favor the balance of forces in the world and revive the time of
It •vas the third Florida death 


Fr.McMullin 

sentence in six months for cold war," he declared. 
Bundy. Reporters were not admitted to the banquet. The Soviet

accepts
"I bear none of the guilt," 
Embassy provided Indian me­

Bundy said. "I did not kill 
dia an English translation of

Kimberlv D1ane Leach. Evi­
Gromyko's remarks. Ask a Peace Corps volunteer nut·st-or nutritionist why she tt-adu•s ba~ic
denle in. this case did not come 

fello-wship 

The veteran Soviet leader's health care to rural villagers in El Salvador. Ask a VISTA community
solely frc.m the witness stand. 
speech followed one by Rao worker why he organizes neighbor,; in St. Louis to st>t up a free health
It came from the newsstand.'' Father Ernan McMullin, pro­
urging "utmost restraint, both clinic. They'll prohably say they want to help people. want to use their
fessor of philosophy at the

Circuit Judge Wallace Jopting by countries of the region and skills, be involved in social change. maybe learn a new language or
University of Notre Dame, has

pronounced sentence briskly: outside powers, in the best experience another culture. Ask them:
been elected a fellow of the

life in prison for kidnapping the interests of regional peace." 
Recister now at Placement Office for 
American Association for the

brown-haired seventh grader, An Indian government 
death in the electric chair for Advancement of Science. spokesman indicated Mrs. interviews. At St. Mary's March 10,1980 
McMullin, a faculty member

killing her. Gandhi had urged Gromyko 

March 10. &11 at Notre Dame in
at Notre Dame since 1954, was 
during their talks to pull Soviet
Miss Leach, a seventhg grader recognized for his writings ''on troops out of Afghanistan. She 
Administration Building.

was taken from in front of her the history of the philosophy of 
also voiced opposition to Amer­

Lake City, Fla., junior high science, especially in the period 
ican plans for a military buildup 

school on Feb. 9, 1978. Her of Galileo and Newton, as well 
in neighboring Pakistan, the

body was found in an aban­



lsrA.

as. on contemporary theory of spokesman said. 
doned shed two months later. 
science. 

., ·,
,' I I .. ' 
~ 
The Observer 
Wednesday, February 13, 1980 -page 6 


Cotnm.ittee announces 
• 


·-sen1or fellow-candidates 
The Senior Fellow Commirtee has announced the rwelve final candidates from among whom the senior fellow will be chosen. Voting will take place tomorrow from ll: 30-l p.m. and 5-6J.m. in both dining halls an La Fortune. Only seniors may V• )te. The candidates are as f,,llows: 
.11an Aida: Best known for his portrayal of Hawkeye Pierce on the relevison series "~1.A.S.H.", Aida is an accom­pli~hed actor on both stage and screen. A veteran of Second Cit:' and Broadway, he has won the Theatre World Award, and Ernrny award, and received a Tony nomination for his !~erfi.•rmance in The Apple 1 ree. He created the television series "\Xle'll Get By" in 1975 a td wrote a number of ".\1.A.S.H." episodes. His 

'NOTICEII 

must recent accomplishment is 
The Seduction ofjoe Tynan, a 
movie which Aida wrote, pro­duced, and scarred in. A graduate of Fordham, Aida is also active in the movement to pass the Equal Rights Amend­ment. 
lsaH~ Asiml,v: An author and 11iocbemisr, Asimov was born in Russia in 1920 and came ro the United Stares in 1923. He received his B.S. from Colum~ 
b:a 
University in 1939, his master's in 1941, and his Ph.D in 1948. An assistant professor of biochemistry at Boston U. Sd10ol of Medicine, Asimov was the recipient of the Ameri­can Chemistry Society's James 

T. 
C1rady Award in 1965 and the Westinghouse Science Writing Award in 1967. He has authored 188 books, including A Foundation Tnlogy. Asimov 


Due to an error In the The Observer, the River City Records sale ad did not tUn as scheduled last Friday. Therefore, River City Records has decided to oHer the same sale prices to Notre Dame and St. mary's students, faculty \ and staff this Thursday, Friday, Saturday and SundaJJ 
Feb.14-17. 

ith ND;smc i.d. this THURSDAY thtu SUNDAY: 
INVENTORY CLEARANCEIII ALL ALBUmS, 8 TRACKS & CASSETTES Sl.OO OFF NO LlmiT!III Cnocoupo~sneeded) 
! I 
l 

says of his own success, ''As you see, none of this is to my nedir. I am the bf"neficiary of a lucky break in the genetic sweepstakes.'' 
J<.ocky Bleier: A native of Appler.on, Wise., and a grad­uate of Notre Dame, Bleier is an investment banker and a run­ningback for the Pittsburgh ~reelers. Following his gradua­tiOn from N.D., Bleier served in the United States Army in Viet Nam, where he suffered leg injuries which were thought to have ended his future in ath­letic~. After receiving a Purple Hearr and Bronze Star Medal, Bleier came back co football to work his way to a starting positilm with the Steelers and the V mce Lonbardi trophy for most courageous player in 1tJ75. His spare time is devoted to working with Up With Love, The Youth Association for Re­tarded Citizens, and fund raising for Multiple Sclerosis. His book, Fighting Back' was published in 1975. George Burns: Eighty-three year old -George Burns is still one of Hollywood's hottest actors. He began his career in vaudeville with his wife and sidekick, Gracie Allen, and went on to careers in radio, television, and movies. He starred in "The George Burns and Gracie Allen Show'' from 11)50-1958, and has made a recent come~ack with his p~r­formances tn The Sunshme Buys, Oh God!, and Going i12 Style. He received an Academy Award for Supporting Actor (Oh God!] in 1976 and is the author of two books; I Love Her, Th.1t 's Why!, and Living it Up, 
or, They Stt/1 Love Me in Altoona. In addition, he has just released an album featur­ing the song "I Wish I Were Eighteen Again." 
Boh Hope: This popular auorI comedian began his ca­reer in vaudeville. He has since appeared on stage, screen, radio and television besides authoring several books. Hope annually entertained the armed forces overseas-from 1945 until t 971. He has received numer­ous honon:i.ry degrees and hu­manitrian awards, including Variety Club's lnnternational­Humallitarian Award in 1968 for his work with the blind. All branches of the Armed Forces have decorated him with Dis­tinguished Serv~ce Awards for "conspicuous generosity." In addition, he has been the People· s Choice as Male Enter­tainer of the Year three rimes, received an Emmy award, and three special Academy Awards. 
AI McGuire: One of the most talemed and colorful figure in collegr:. basketball, the New York native graduated from St. John's.College. He began his coaching career at Dartmouth in 19-55, went .to Belmont Abbey in '')7, and finally to Marquette -in '64, where he was twice 
· voted Coach of the Year and led Marquette co a National Cham­pionship before retiring from coaching. Now active in broad­casting, he has been a fa-vorite of Notre Dame Pep rallies and ofcollege basketball fans across the country. 
Btl/ Coshy: An actor, come­dian,. and recording artist, this Philadelphian began his career in nightclubs. He moved on to television and film, gaining national acclaim for his role in the series "I Spy" and later in '' rhe Bill Cosby Show'' and ''Fat Albert and the Cosby Kids,·' winning four Emmy awards. His comedy albums · have earned him four Grammy awards. Educated at Tt·mple University. Cosby has bt en a school teacher and appeared on ''The Electric Company. ·• 
Walter Cronkite : One of the 
foremost journalists of our 
time, 1he St. Joseph, Missouri 
born newscaster was educated 
at University ofTexas as well as 
reLeiving degrees from Rollins 
College, Bucknell University 
and Syracuse University. Be­
ginning as a news writer his ,articulation and journalistic merit grwe with the beginning of television when he joined CBS in 195C. He has been cited for varit>us honors including the Peabody Award, William A. White award, George Dulk. Journalism Award, and an Em my, published a book in 1970 (Challenges of Changes) and his nightly commentaries' have affected some 50 million VIewers. 
Dustin Hoffman: The Los Angeles born actor is currently regarded as one of the most talented--aclors of our rime. Although he has acted both on stage and in film, he is best knowr: for his apperances on rhe b1g sc~een. H1s insightful IIHerpretanons of film charac­ters in The Graduate Midnight Cowboy, and Len~y led co Oscar nominations. Current rules in All the Preszdent 's /VI.en, tVf.arathon Man and Kramer vs. Kramer have been highly acclaimed. 
Net! Simon: Born in New York and a 1946 graduate of N.Y.U., S1mon is on.e of America's most celebrated scriptwriters for both screen and stage. His works include: Barefoot in the Park, The Odd Couple, Calrfor­nla Suite, The Goodbye Girl and They're Playing Our Song. He has been honored with numer­ous Tony and Emmy award nominations, and was the recip­ient of the Sam S. Shubert Award f,>r his work in theater. 
F>ruce :·lpringst,·en: One of the few rock musicians £,>grace the cover of Time magazine, the Boss has enjoyed overwhelming success in the last decade. From Cherry Hiii,New J crsey, Springsteen plays 10 different instruments and writes and arranges all his own music. He has recorded numerous albums and is a regular on the concert circuit. His last two perform­ances at the ACC have been among the most popular events on campus. Some of his more Llmous songs include: "Born to H.un", "Thunder Road", "Ro­salita' ·, and ''Tenth Avenue Freeze Out''. 
Kurt Vonnegut: The Indian­apolis born writer began his education at Cornell University and finished up at the Univer· siry of Chicago. A one-rime reporter. for the Chicago City News Bugle, he spenr some­rime in publi€ r~la~tons, before caking off 15 years fQf' free-Ian· cing. In 1965 hc.heganlectur· ing at college campuses. . He has won . numerous literary awards includins a Guggen­heim Fellowship, and the National Inst-itute Arts & Letters Literary Award. Some of his best known works in­clude: Slaughterhouse Five, Welcome to the Monkey House, Cats Cradle, andBreakfast of Champions. 
Seniors are asked to vote for only one candidate today. The highest vote-getting nominee to accept the award will be named Senior Fellow. 
Should none of the final candi­dates accept the award, the committee will contact candi­dates from the first election. In voting, seniors should consider that the fellow should: a(be out5tanding in his/her vocation b( exhibit qualities of unselfish-. ness and leadership, c( have made a contribution to society, and d( reflect the goals and aspirations of the Class of '80. 
.. 


Wednesday, February 13, 1980 -page 7 




-Scholarships support Notre Datne's ideals 
The University's threat to eliminate scholarships to non-profit bearing sports contradicts the idea of competition on which the University prides itself. The Observer believes that Executive Vice-president Edmund Joyce has ignored studenr concern for the sports programs. We support student effort to influence the final decision andquestion the Administration's perception of the issue. 
Since the January 16 announcement of a moratorium on scholarship offerings to the non-profit bearing sports, student support for the reversal of the decision has snowballed. Following last night's Hall Presidents Council meeting, a petition was circulated as part of an attempt to convince the Administration that many students disagree with Joyce's method of solving a farcical financial difficulty. 
The questions that the Administration and the trustees must answer before makingtheir decision are these: Why are sports important to the Notre Dame community? How important are these sports to that community? Where do scholarships fit into the overall athletic picture? 
The concept of sports is important to our whole culture. The ideas of competition, self-improvement, recreation, striving far ~xcellence and simple physical fitness are integral parts of any community or society. Notre Dame, as does America, capitalizes on many virtues of what has come to be known as "good sportsmanship." 
Sports at Notre Dame have been recognized as one of many areas in which students' excellence has gained national and international respect for themselves and their school. The University has rewarded its athletes for quality competition and has emphasized the importance of peer support and fellowship. The noise level of the campus on a September Saturday night reflects the outcome of that afternoon's football game. And Fr. Hesburgh himself sat on the end of the bench at Monday night's basketball game against San Francisco. Much of Notre Dame's reputation rests on the quality of their athletic teams. 
Scholarships are a means of attracting quality athletes who help to build quality teams and quality programs. The absence of quality in any program lessens the level of competition. Scholarships have a direct correlation to the quality of a sports program, with one or two exceptions. Scholarships are necessary to continue the University's support of those ideals of competition which Notre Dame 
promotes.  
According  to Joyc e's pragmatic  reaso ning,  the value  of  
sportsmanship  and  fellowship  is  less  than  the  value  of  
financial profit.  

The Observer and the students can not deal with facts and figures which the Administration withholds. Bur the theoretical argument is clear: the scholarships must stay. Or is the deterioration of "non-profit producing" sports, such as hockey, a narrow-minded goal of the Administration? 

P. 0. Box 
A gratuitous insult topeace-lovers 
Dear Editor: 

It strikes me as a gratuitous 
. insult to students and faculty alike when Professor Norling accuses all those of us among his colleagues who are not confirmed Cold Warriors of undermining the common sense of our students with such "anti-Christian" ideas as a love of peace. 
But does he really believe that the faculties at West Point (where Dwight Eisenhower went to college) and Annapolis (where Jimmy Carter went) consist of ''academic ideo­logues'' •,vho similarly corrupt their students because they ''hate their own societies''? 
Ronald Sverdlove Department ofMathematics 

'Odeto a Father' provokes smile ofunderstanding 
Dear Editor: 

Chris Stewarr's column, "Ode 
Tu A Father," struck a very 
sensitive nerve within me. The 
young man's expectations of 
what he had hoped his father 
wuuld be parallel those that I 
had set for my morhf'r. 
Throughout myearly icens, the tcnsitlll between my motherandi grew insurmountably, due ro my own sotd-searching. In ;;eek~ng independence and 1tkn111y, I lost all avenues of cornrnunicat ion with my mo­t her. I didn · t want a mother. I wamcd a fnend. She couldn't quickly adjust to my new de­mands on her. After all, she'd been my mother for eighteen ye:ns, how could I expect her to suddenly change? Yet, I did. And the more I expecteci her ro change, the harder it became to communicate with her and love her. 
During a conversation we had ~'ver Christmas break, my mo­ther explained how sometimes we ser up unrealistically high cxpe<.:tations of the people we care abour. h becomes so <Lfficult for the other individual w live up to those expectations, whether consciously or not, that communication breaks down and the relationship falls apart. 
For the first time I listened to what those words meant and aued upon them. The change that resulted was unfathom­able. Now, we communicate because we accept and love each other for what we are and arc trying to become. 
I described this scenario to a friend of mine at a time when I felt that the lines of contmuni­catton between us were falling down. The reacnon that it elicited was a smile of under­standing. Chris Stewart's des­cription of the father-son rela­tionship provoked the same smile 111 my heart because I understood both perspectives and sets of expectations. I sincerely hope that the son can learn the lesson that took a lot of pain for me to learn. 
Turi Brown 

Article on 
SMCsanctions ' 1 • t ' 

gross y maccura e 
Dear Editor: 
· 1h

My response to t e ante e,
''] udicial Board hands down 
sanctions," on Feb. 11, was one of utter shock and disgust. The SMC Judicial Board Act of Confidentiality reads as fol­lows: ''Any decision reached 
h 

by this Board or anything whic occurred during this case will not leave this room on the partof any Board member. This 
· h' 1

Board practices stnct et tea
standards of confidentiality.''
In other words, "NO COM­MENT" as made quite clear in a previous article by The Obser-. ver on Feb. 7. 
However, that wasn't quite good enough. The article which was written by Mary Leavitt on Feb. ll was grossly inaccurate and unsubstantiated. In my opinil)n, this article was based solely·)n gossip and hearsay. ~o slatement was released by the Judicial Board regarding 
any decisions based on the 
LeMans hall incident. I am the .bl r 
only person responst e wr such a statement, and I was not available for comment. 
Finally, and most infuriat­
ingly, the statements made by me w~ich appeared ~n the Feb. 11 arttcle, were obtamed under false pretenses. An Observer 
reporter stated to me that she was writing: a~1 article. on the Slv\(:Judic~lprocess~ and in no .way was ·it r,;la~ed to the LeMans Hall pantes. · The 
-r:.' · -I · d . h 
5n~m~~~y .1rea~T p~:::Ju: which a peared in the same article fatsel insinuates a breech of cont.'denriality on.. my an in re ard to an Judicial ~ ·' · g h db r~e Board 
ectston rea~ e Y ld l'k · 
In conclusmn, I wou 1 e to 
· 1 h' h 

say that the arne e w tc appeared on Feb. 11 was un­
mistakenly a piece of trash. Such blatantly false information does not achieve anything. It
h 1 d h
I
on y-e P~ to ehstrohy t e tdru~t 
we have tn eac or er an tn our system. 
Martha A. Boyle

SMC]udtcial Commissioner 
Demands apology from The Observer 
Dear Editor: I .I
I have recently been dis­I heartened by the Jack of discre­tion The Observer staff has shown in divulging information to our student body. Last week following the violation of party rules in LeMans Hall an article appeared tn The Observer which clear!y stated students did not want any information printed concerning the sanc­tions they received. 
Unfortunately, The Observer persisted to seek out informa­tion against the will of these individuals. On Monday an article appeared in The Obser­ver which cle~rly violated the 
confidential relationship bet­ween members of the Judicial Board and the involved stu­dents. 
I have very good reason to 
believe that no member of the
d 

Judicial Board (or involve parties) broke the confidential relationship, yet The Obsen·er by "guesstimating" what hap­pened has successfully led us to 
believe otherwise. This may
lead to serious dis::rust between the students and the Judicial Board. 
Reading Mary Leavitt's an­
icle makes it clear that the Saint 
Mary's handbook served as her only source of information and that members of the Judicial Board respected the privacy of the involved students.
I believe students should be made aware of the conse­quences that will oc~ur if the:y violate college pohcy. Thts awareness is a student's indi­vidual responsibility obtained best by becoming familiar with the college handbook--not by The Observer breaking codes of 
fid · 1· d · · · 
con 1 entt~ tty an .pnnttng. tn-
accurate mformatton agamst
the will of those they write about. 1 believe you owe both the students and the members of the Judicial Board an apol­
ogy· Carol Trousdale 
Ed.' , ~ t, . Th Ob . · 
0
ztor s e. _ .. e server has a responsibiJzty to. r'!P_ort \'-;.: as a&C:Mra_~ly as_ po,sszi:Jfe ...ail !·~·· 
·· news .·· ~ ~.:
.wh~~ .affe~~s .!(he,_l.l.If!.f 
111
of those__ ihe NP!$!!K:;:,_ -..·i~­
· communtty. ·ln/01'111411011_ ~ 
· tain~ng to.··.r~~~es,·. and ·Nie•· ,.· ­
pun:s~menl.resllltrng fro~ the breaking of!hose rules, clearly affects the ltV~s ofal( students. The Observer has f!'o!ated .no code of confidentza!tty, smce 
the names of those. ''sane­
· d" ,,, d · 
tzone never arreare tn 
n·nt. The uotes attn'buted
f M B i. qp t · d t th 
.0 d." oy e · er_ azne 0 al e
~· 1

!.~/eta /'races/· hn 1,_ener. ' tn;b'~rma .10n ·w t.'~r.· ds et, os15~­
sz ty, zs qua z1 ze o uzs­
seminate. To the best of 
k .1 d: h · ,£ t.
our nowt-e ge, t e zn1 orma ton 
pn.nted on the fi'nal decision· reached by the board was 
accurate. 
administration of either institution. 

Editorial Board and Department Managers
The news is reported as accurately and




-TheObserver_ 
as objectively as possible. Editorials Editor-In-chief ....... .Rosemary Mills Sports Editor ..................Mark P~rry ·represent the opimon of a majority of Managing Edrtor.......... Diane Wilson Features Editor ... ..Kathleen Conn~lly Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46JJ6 the Editorial Board. Commentaries, Editonal Edt tor .............. Ann Gales Photo Editor .............. Doug Christian 
opinions and letters are the views of Senior Copy Editor ......... M. Onufrak The Observer is an independent their authors. Column space is avail­Executive News Editor ...... Mike Lewis Business Manager........ Steve Odland newspaper publish~d by the srud~nts able ro all members of the community, News Editor ....................Mark Rust Production Manager.....John McGrath ofthe Univ~rs1ty of Notre Dame du lac and the free expression of varying News Editor .. ............... Mike Shields Advertising Manager..M1ke Holsinger and Saint Mary's College. It does not opinions on campus, through letters, is SMC News Editor........ Margi~ Brassil Controller................. .Kevin Manton necessarily reflect the policies of the encouraged. Circulation Manager......Greg Hedges 
.-.. 

------------------------------------------------------------------~ 


7~~----------~--~------~-----.--~------------------~.-.--------------------------------~---... 
.. 
The Observer Wednesday,February 13, 1980-page 8 

Pr;v/ sb.~rp-shooter Paul Gerni displayed his talents amidst controversy tn LaFortune 
yes:t.-rday. [Photo by Beth Prezio] 
Police rescue politicalhostages 
'.\N SALVADOR, EL SAL­\'ADOR (AP) -Anti terrorist police units assaulted the Christian Democrat Party head­quarters yesterday, freeing 10 hostages during a gunfight that left one policeman and three left-wing militants dead, wit­nesses reported. About 100 leftists seized the building and hostag~s cv:o weeks ago. 
The attack came st-veral hours after five leftist demonstrators were shot to death and more than a dozen were wounded as they and others staged a ''victory'' march that ended their week-long occupation of the Education Ministry. 
Other left-wing extremists oc­cupying the Spanish Embassy freed the ambassador, Victor Sanchez Nesa, last night, but said they would hold five other hostages "until our demands our met.'' 
A spokesman for the militants, 

who took over the embassy ....~the party headquarters was 
Feb. 5, said initially yesterday  injured  as  the  anti-terrorist  
that Sanchez Mesa would be  squad  members  charged  into  
released because he ''suffered  the building, which  was  taken  
amedical  crisis"  as  gunfire  over  Jan.  29  by  about  100  
crackled through San Salvador.  militants  of  the  Feb.  28  
But he  said  later  the  ambas- Popular Leagues.  
sador,  who  is  known  to  have  A  gunfight  broke  out  and  
a  heart  condition,  was  freed  shooting continued for several  

HAVE ACOMPLAINT? BE THERE!· 
ST. MARY'S PARKING REGULATIONS LEMANS LOBBY 6:00pm WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 13 
"toshowourgoodfaithandnot for medical reasons.'' The five still held in the embassy are Chancellor 
~anuel  de Helguera,  a  coun­ 
sellor,  a  secretary,  and  two  
Spanish technicians.  
The  police  raid  on  the  

Christian Democrat office had raised fears in Madrid that force might be used to free the captives in the embassy. 
Security forces in neighboring Guatemala attacked the Spanish Embassy in Guatemala City Jan. 31 when it was taken over by protesting pea­sants and 3 7 persons perished in a fire that broke out during the skirmish. Spain severed relations with Guatemala, and El Salvador's ruling junta has assured Spanish officials force would not be used to free the embassy captives here. 
Christian Democrat leaders said non of the hostages in 

STUDENT CAMPING IN .EUROPE 
3-6 weeks through Holland, England, 
France, Switzerland, Austria, Germany 
Italy, Greece and Spain
• 

Tours include airfare, campsites, tents, meals/day, sightseeing, cruises and special 
• 

xcurstons.~------------------------------~ 
or brochure write : S. Graveel Experiments in Travelling P.0. Box 21988 West Lafa ette IN 4 7 
mmutes. The leftists surren­dered as three armored cars pulled into the driveway of the two-story building, their machine Juns leveled on the doors an windows. 
Police said later they staged the assault because a gunman 
inside the  building  had shot  
at  police  driving  by  in  a  
truck.  

• • • Scholarships 
[Continued from page 1] 
"Fr. Joyce has said before that he thought bringing hoc-



U. Va. offers 
summer 

institute 
A new summer institute at the University of Virginia will help prepare Ph. D's in the human­ities and social sciences for rwn-teaching careers. 
The institute, offered jointly by the University's Graduate School of Arts and Sciences, Mcintire School of Commerce and Office of Career Planning and Placement, will prepare Ph. o· s for diverse responsibil­ities by educating them in skills and terminology important in 11:>11-academic occupations. 
!'he insrirute will also help parricipanrs develop ways to seek jobs effectively and will provide business, industry, and government wirh a pool of highly qualified potential em­ployees, say the program's organrzers. 
The instirure will accept a maximum of 40 students, and preference will be given to those who have completed the requirements for the Ph.D. Participants will live in Univer­sity dorms or nearby apart­
' ments. Applications may be obtained by writing the Office of the Dean, Graduate School of Arts and Sciences, 444 Cabell Hall, University of Virginia, Char­lotresvilee, VA 22903. Applica­tions will be accepted through March 15, 1980, and applicants will be notified of admissions decisons by April 15. 

Gerni displays cool shooting, hot temper 
by Barb Bn'dges StaffReporter 
After chastising Notre Dame student Activities Commission­er Tim Coughlin, five-time world champion billiard player Paul Gerni demonstrated the trick-shots that have made him 
famous  yesterday  m  a  show  
at the NDpool-hall.  
Gerni,  who  showed  up  late  
to  the  1 p.m.  show,  became  

critical when students conti­nued to play pinball and pool as he performed. 
The angered Gerni threatened to leave, but Coughlin pointed our that Gerni was under con­tract. After five minutes, the disturbance was settled as Coughlin asked students to stop their other activities, and Gerni performed his billiard feats. 
Gerni has appeared at Notre Dame for the past four years. "Needless to say, he will not be back again,'' Coughlin said. Coughlin commented that he ''would like to apologize to all the people that were there for Gerni 's unprofessional be­havior. I hope they enjoyed the following show. '' 
Gerni demonstrated numerous trick shots as expounded bil­liard hints to aspiring players. 
Pocket billiards is the second most popular sport in the country. To Paul Gerni, it is a ''very classy sport'' that is growing in world-wide re-
key to Notre Dame was the 
biggest  mistake  he  ever  
made,"  Marrero  added.  
"I don't  think  the  University  
has  put  much  emphasis  on  

supporting hockey. Students were not offered season tickets in the summer along with basketball ticket offers, they wouldn't let WSND FM (a station with a broadcasting radius of 30 miles) air hockey games, and they didn't even hint that this might happen until late in the hockey season. Srudenrs haven't had time to mount a publicity drive and show their support." 
That is the opinion of many students, Marrero said, and Roche added he hopes the petitions will prove it. 
"We want to give the ex­ecutive board some statistical evidence of support.'' Roche said. ''And we want to know what is being done. Nobody will even tell us accurate 
r
1acts. , 
The student government leaders indicated that when the executive board deals with this issue on Friday, board mem­bers will have to discuss a related subject: Title IX, and its implication for future ath­letic budgets. In the mean­time, according ·to Roche, " a lot of people are upset over this." 

Observer· 

corrects error 
The man identified as Morris Pollard on p. 3 of yesterday's Observer is actually Dennis Goulet delivering a lecture entitled ''Is Economic Justice Possible?'' 

cognition because of his am­
bassadorial efforts. 
A graduate of Purdue Uni­
versity, Gerni started playing . pool at age six in the re­creation room of his father's parish. Gerni started winning tournaments at age seven, and continued to win throughout high school and college. Gerni has been a rpofessional billiard player for etght years and his reputation has scy-rocketed. 
Gerni holds the record for 
pocketing 166 balls consecu­
tively. He became the World 
Champion trick-shooter in 1978 
when he sank 21 balls with 
one shot. 
The billiard wonder runs on 
a tight schedule. His home 
is in Kansas City, but the 
majority of his time is spent 
traveling throughout the world. 
~erni is making major strides 
m abolishing the "smoke-filled 
room, beer guzzling pool-hall" 
image for which billiards has 
traditionally been noted. 
Gerni travels abroad and an­
nually performs about 200 
shows for commercial and be­
nefit purposes, and at colleges. 
Various .national billiard fede­
rations sponsor Gerni in his 
effort to promote the game. 
Both the efforts and the re­
wards have been ~rear, claimed 
Gerni. ''I've gtven a lot to 
the game, and now the game 
is gtving back,'' said Gerni. 
Gerni is consistently the high­
est paid player in his business. 
Gerni accrues benefits from 
television shows such as Bar­
etta and the Bionic Woman 
because he devises the bil­
liard shots used in various 
episodes. A lite Beer commer­
Cial uses another one of Ger­
ni's trick shots. 
Gerni' s crusade for pocket billiards is also carried out via his articles in U.S., British, and Swedish magazines. Films are another medium in which Gerni displays his billiard tal­ent. 
''I take the tournament side and the entertainment side, and I'm right in the middle," he said. "I want to get the, audience so excited they can't wait to grab a cue.'' brian Morris, an independent promoter who accompanied Gerni to Notre Dame, produ­cing a film in the United Kingdom about ''snooker'' champion Fred Davis. Gerni will appear in the film, and has also been an advisor for another billiard film, the ''Baltimore Bullet.'' The two films will premier together in Baltimore on March 21. 
Morris said he feels that programs like Gerni' s need more exposure. He asserted that billiards in America "has big things happening,'' and that the ''universities should start getting into it." 
Morris criticized the student union for holding Gerni' s show in the pool hall rather than in a ballroom setting where Gerni usually performs. "The 
very thing they're trying to get away from is happen­ing here." 
At present, Gerni has just finished planning a "jailhouse invitational" tournament to ~e held at Leavenworth Pf niten­tiary in Kansas, whid. will pit ''the greatest pros and cons against each other.'' 
Gerni is proud of the new billiard image he is helping to spread, and he likes the chal­lenge of the game. "It's the kind of /arne that'., ea~v co learn an difficult to nasrer.'' he said. 

.. 
f 


The Observer Wednesday,February 13, 1980-page9 
For radioactive wastes 


Carter proposes cavern storage, 
WASHINGTON (AP) -gram. His statement was Some storage facilities have President Carter proposed yes­supported by Frank Press, the been closed by local authorities terday the nation's first coordi­president's science advisor. and others are filling up at such nated effort to store nuclear But one of the papers the a rate that medical research garbage, planning to spend White House distributed in producing nuclear garbage has $700 million to examine salt support of the program said been threatened because sites I' domes and other sites in the that the Nuclear Regulatory may not be available . South and West as potential Commission '·is determining Utilities with nuclear plants · radioactive dumps. whether or not it has confidence have been forced to keep spent 
This is a solid policy that that radioactive wastes can be fuel at reactor sites where can stand the test of time,'' the disposed of safely.'' storage space is expected to be President said. The choice of sites carries scarce by the end of the decade. 
Sending his proposal to Con­political risk, and Caner creat­Can~r said he would continue gress, the pre~.ident said the ed a state planning council, to seek legislation to build or government would study about with Gov. Richard Riley of buy limited temporary storage 11 sites where the poisonous South Carolina as chairman, to facilities for such spent · fuel by-products of nuclear power, work with the administration until permanent sites can be weapons tests and medical and Congress 'on .radioactive developed. research could be hidden at no waste management 1ssues. Carter's recommendations risk to the environment. The need for such a/rogram stem from a two-year study. I 
The proposal contains fund­has been demonstrate hy con­Final decisions on which sites to ing of $739 million for fiscal troversies surrounding several develop into actual permanent i 1981. Funding for nuclear of the sites holding radioactive storage facilities are not likely I storage in the previous two materials. The White House to be made until 1984 or 1985, 1 fiscal years averaged $550 mil­estimated that the nation turns officials said. · ; lion a year. out almost 100,000 cubic feet of The first sites might then be i 
Questions remain as to whet­high-and low-level radioactive in operation by the early 1990s, · her the wastes, especially spent waste, a figure that may grow several government officials fuel frpm commercial reactors to about 650,000 cubic feet by said at the White House brief­and government weapons prog­the year 2000. Ing. 
University Provost Timothy 0 'Meara spoke at the Faculty Senate meeting yesterday. See story on page 1. [Photo by Beth Prezio]
rams, can be stored safely. The highly radioactive materials couldhave a life offrom 1,000 to 300,000 years. 
''A technical consensus exists among experts that no insurmountable barriers are known' • to prevent the safe storage, said Carter's domestic policy advisor, Stuart Eizenstat, briefing reporters on the pro­
... Bases 
[Continued from page I] 
. The offdicials said that of the three countries that have a­greed to an expandedU.S. mili­tary role, Oman is by far the most important because of its location on the Arabian Penin­sula at the gateway to the Persian Gulf. 
Somalia had close links with the Soviet Union until 1978 when the Russians were ex­pelled for supporting Somalia's archrival and neighbor. Ethio­pia. The Soviets left behind extensive military facilities at the port city of Berbera, inclu­ding a 15,000-foot runway. 
The Kenyan deepwater port of Mombasa has externsive repair and oil storage facilities. 
In seeking to expand its mili­tary presence in the area, The Carter administration has aban­doned its 1977 goal of conver­ting the India Ocean into a demilitarized zone. The United States and the Soviet Union both have increased their mili­tary activities inthe area in recent months. The United States is reported to have 25 ships in the general area, and the Russians 24. Both navies are said to be in a ''watch and wait'' posture with­out making any threatening moves. 
The most powerful of the U.S. Navy ships deployed in the region are three aircraft carri­ers and their escorting destroy­ers 
The U.S. mission to East Africa and the Middle east was led by Reginald Bartholomew, 
,head of the State Department's political-military affairs office. 
~**************** 
* * 
~ buy · ~ 
* *

! Observer : 
: classifieds ~ 
i***************! 




THE LEADING NEWSMAGAZINE AT THE LOWEST PRICE. 
Because you attend college you are eligible to receive TIME, the world's 'lead­ing newsweekly at the lowest indi­vidual subscription rate, just 35<: an issue. That's BIG SAVINGS off the regular subscription rate of 59<: an issue and even BIGGER SAVINGS off the $1.25 
newsstand price. 
And it's so simple to subscribe-just look for the cards with TIME and its sister publications, Sports Illustrated, Fortune, Life, Money and People. They are available at the college bookstore or from your local TIME representative: 
Kevin Rochford . 121 E. Navarre South Bend, IN 46601 (219) 233-5298 
~ ~­

. . . .. .,. .. ' ' ... 
• • l •
«I . .. "\ 

••.••· • 4"\
. ·-·~ ., • 
--------------------------------------------------------------------------· 

1 if
'F 
---. 
1'he Observer -Sports Wednesday, February 13, 1980-page 10 


Baseball 

I 
I arbitration 
\ 

I I \ be.gins
I I 

I \ Molarity
I l 
\ 
.50 i.£1S GO /Al... I LJ).A,JTI 





The Daily Crossword 

© 1980 by Chicago Trlbu(le-N.Y. News Synd.lnc... All Rights Reserved 
-------. -______, 

NEW YORK(AP) The Major League Players Association Tuesday released the names of 59 players who filed for salary arbitration prior to the deadline. 
However, one of those names was eliminated almost imme­diately when Montreal out­fielder Ron LeFlore, who originalJy opted for arbitration, agreed to a one-year contract with the Expos. 

Among the names stilJ on the list were National League relief star and Cy Young Award winner Bruce Sutter of the Chicago Cubs, ace Pitts· burgh reltever Kent Tekulve and top Houston relief 
by Michael Molinelli 


ACROSS 29 Morays 53 Greek 1 Persian 31 Gave letter poet courage 55 Even 5 Pretentious 35 Waiter's 57 Failed display expectation 60 System 9 Clump of 36 Tortilla of defense 
brushwood turnover 64 Seething 14 Rabbit 38 Paris' 65 Planner 15 Drug plant river 68 Banana fam­16 Get anoth~r 39 Moslem ily plant 
crew priest 69 Singer Joan 17 Off:ce 41 Hateful one 70 Chums ' st · -'3 Adore 71 Hair 1' Jak s A1 Concentrate 72 Diminutive beginning 4..) Lioness ending '"lC) Perton's t7 Irish 73 Cut, old brainpower Poseidon style 21 IVexican 48 -go (at 
·ink liberty) DOWN 23 1g birds 50 Moon con­1 Dayton's 25 ·ossessive veyances state 
2) Dep. -52 Have being 2 Thomas or Horace 

3 4  A Johnson Della of  
5  song Four-wall  
6  game Workmen's  
agency: abbr.  

7 Turkey 8 .Piq. "'nt 9 Fren~..n 
paintings 10 Happened again 11 Mine, in Marseilles 12 A r..~-·· 


a C\JaQentine ~g COoy CPe~rgonaQ ·iu1 ffie (0bgenve!l 


DEADLINE IS 1PM TODAY!! 
l ( 

specialist Joe Sambito. · 

Other big names on the list included pitcher Mark ''The ' Bird" Fidrych and o"utfielder Steve Kemp of Detroit, our­fielder Ellis Valentine of Mon­
.treal, shortstop Roy Smalley of Minnesota, third baseman Ray Knight of Cincinnati, and Chicago White Sox pitcher 
13 Province 

of Italy 18 Hoarfrost 22 Long time 24 Quench 26 Unbending 27 Malayan 
island 28 Swiftly 30 Oar 32 String 

instFument 33 Compete 34 Steel plow 
inventor 37 Beginning 40 Religious 

criers 42 Suicidal pilot 45 Miss Dallas and others 49 Inhabitant: 
suff. 51 A Connery 54 Sun-dried 
brick 56 Boring ones 57 Fancy's 
opposite 58 Building 
unit 59 Area 61 Prayer 
called 
by 40D 62 Far: pref. 63 Gaelic 66 Squeal 67 Obtain 
Ken Kravec. 
The arbitration process calls for the player and the team to each submit a salary figure to an arbitrator, who then schedules a hearing. Aftet both sides present their arguments, the arbitrator selects one of the two sub­mitted figures as the player's salary. 





~ ..Nowalk 
continued from p.l2 
ish children. Nowalk's venture in New Mexico is one she relys on as both educational and rewarding. 
The Belle leader is always ready to do anything to help her team, too. She serves as a motivator, friend to all and liason with the coaches. Nancy Nowalk is there when her team 
needs her, no matter how trivial the matter seems. 
"Hey is anybody hungry? Ya wanna eat now or later?'' 
"Yeah, let's stop!" 
''W.e ' re hungry, N.anc./'' 
"NOW!!!" 
''Hey,]erry, '' smzles Nowalk, 
''WE'RE HUNGRY!'' 


' ' ' DeCicco 
continued from p. 12 
before each match. You wanna talk about streaks? I'll give you a great one. Since Andy Bonk (a senior co-captain of this year's squad) has been fencing here he has never lost a match. Never! In his four years he's been on two national champion­ship teams and a second-place team (in last year's NCAA's) He·s also won an individual gold medal in NCAA foil competttton. Now that's streak I'm proud of. 
''lxt me tell you something. You know when this streak W1;: he finally b<. worth something? When it's over. Then we can all s~t back and say, 'Now how ma~1y did we acrually win?'' 
Ot course, even though De­Cicco · ~,..,·r emphastze it, he· s nor going ro do anything personally ro break the 114 -match skein and that means wearing the sa~e suir, shirr and tie for four and one-half 
years 
"Yeah," he laughs. 'Ibought a suit just before the streak starred and my wife sewed a United States Olympic Commit­tee patch (l)f which DiCicco is a member) on rhe pocker. 
··well we made an eastern road rrip and we just blew reams awav. The kids fenced brilliantly. After it was all over, one of the kids, I rhink it was Tim Gl;, s. sa;d 'C0ach, don't change the clothes.· So for the last 114 matches,I've worn the exacr same clothes... 
;\nd his team ended up with rhe exact same results. But all of that hasn't changed Mike OtCicco a bit. 
· · rhe No_tre Dame spirit,'' he ltkes to say in a manner that is uniquelY his own, "is when someone does something for Notre Dame just because they wanr to give something co the place. Pt·ople like the srudenr manag< w~ .1d Friday nighr:--ril~ ! .n~ pamttn~ hci.rJ( :.., ·!Jell the:>: (\)U]J b-. ULH J • .l, 1. 0 c:i guOG time. People like Father Hes­burgh who is an extremely busy man. bur srill found rime to sir on the bench at the San Francisco basketball game be­cause he is a parr of this place too. People like thar give a hell of alor more .t.han they'I! ever ger tn rerurn. 
People like Mike DeCicco. 

\.. 
\ 
\ 

' 

The Observer -SportsBoard Wednesday,February 13, 1980-page 11 

NO Women's Swim Club--8C 
Alma College--51 200 medley rela1--1. NO (Josie Fitzsimons, Teri Schindler, Rita Harrington, Teri Fitsimons) 2. Alma 
500 freestyle--1. Debbie Keeling (NO) 2. Anne Geiaty (NO) 3. Kirsch (A) 100 freestyle--1. L. Rudd (A( 2. Teri Fitzsimons (NO) 3. Layne Salizar (NO) 50 back--1. Josie Fitzsimons (NO) 2. Teri Ann Slowey (NO) 3. L. Wilkensons fA) 
100 butterfly--'1. Rita Harrington (N D) 2. ena Rodney (NO) 3. J. Price (A) 
IM diving--1. L.  Mclellan (A) 2.  Teresa  
Day (NO)  
50  free--1.  Teri  Fitzsomons  (N D)  2. L.  

Rudd (A) 3. Nina BurreiiiNDl 
100 back--1. Josie Fitsimons (NO) 2. L. Wilken sons (A) 3. Ann Slowev IN D) 100 IM--1. Teri Schindler (NO) 2. Debbie 
Kelling (NO) 3. L. McCellan (A') 200 free--1. L. Rudd (A) 2. Elena Rodney (NO) 3. T. Sulisz (A) 50 fly--1. Sue O'Laughlin (NO) 2. L. Wikenina lA\ ~ K Kirsch fA) 50 breaststroke--1. Teri Schindler (N D) 2. 
K. Kelly (A) 3. Ma:·y Kelleher (NO) 100 breaststroke--1. Teri Schindler(N D) 2 
K. Kelly (A) 3. Anna Janess IN 0) 

Basketb(;lll 
NOTRE DAME 70, 
HUNINGTON 64 NOTRE DAME (70) Hicks 0 1-2 1. McManus 7 1-2 15, Politiski 3 3-3 9, Cashman 2 2-3 6, Lally 2 4-4 8, Conboy 3 1-2 7, Liebscher 1 1-2 3, Antolik 0 0-1 0, Matvey 8 5-7 21. Totals 2618-27 70. HUNINGTON(64)--Carter 3 3-6 9, Petit 2 2-3 6, Graves 11 0-0 22. Newsome 5 H 11, Pyle 20-0 4. Strausberg 2 0-0 4, Scholl 2 0-1 4, Oucy 1 2-3 4. Totals 28 8-17 64. 
Halftime scorr.s--Notre Dame 39, Huningto 1 33. Total fouls--Not,re Oar1e 21 Hunington 22. 
Tuesday's NBA Scores 
Houston 120, San Antonio 118 Chicago 100, Gulden State 94 Washington 128, Denver 111 Atlanta 95, Portland 89 

Hockey 
Tuesday's NHL Scores Vancouver 5, Hartforc 5 Winnipeg 0. NY Islanders 0 Washington 5, Los Angeles 4 



Classifie s 
•
ottces 
• • • Shari 
getting nine points and five rebounds inthe first half as the Irish pulled out to a 39-33 halftime lead. The 5-11 native of Oak Ridge, Tenn., wound up with 15 points and nine re­bounds before fouling out in 
the second half. 
The backcourt tandem of Mol­ly Cashman and Maggie Lally accounred for 14 points, eight assi~ts and six steals on the 
even mg. 
continued from p. 12 
Despite the team's three game winnmg skein, Matvey hasn't completely adjusted to Petro's new strategy . 
"The people starting now de­serve to be in there," she says. "But I guess it's kind of hard to accept. She's the coach, though, and I'll just go out there and play my game. You can't argue with the results we've gotten.'' 


For Sale 
''People don't expect very much from players coming off the bench, so you have a definite advantage there," ex­plains Missy Conboy 
Notre Dame's first five was all business Tuesday night as the Irish wind down to the AlA W state tournament, which begins district play next Thursday. 
Forward Tricia McManus dominated inside play early, 
. .. Games 

of Afghanistan before next Wednesday. ' Douglas Roby. one of the two American members on the IOC, 
said  he  thought  American  
athletes  would go  to  Moscow  
somehow  unless  the  U.S.  

government took some drastic measures such as cancel~ing passports. 
continz.ed from p. 12 
Norway and Romania posted first-round hockey victories. 
Meanwhile, Lake Placid was beset by a comical transporta­tion foul up that almost immo­bilized the town on the day before the opening ceremonies. After three days of discussion, IOC President Lord Killanin 

announced that all 72 members attending the pre-Olympic meeting had agreed that the Summer Games should go on in Moscow as scheduled. The action was taken despite Carter's threat to ask Ameri­can Olympic officials not to send a team if the Soviets refuse to pull their troops out 

All classified ads must be received by 5:00p.m .. two days prior to the issue in which the ad is run. The Observer office will accept classifieds Monday through Friday, 10:00 a.m. to 5:00p.m. ~II classifieds must be pre-paid, either in person or through the ma11 .
. 

USED Books at discount orices. The latest in new books. Frequent sales on new and used titles in categories from Philosophy to popular fiction. visit Pandora's Books, 937 S. Bend Ave. between Eddy and Notre Dame. 
Students ... Need an inexpensive sofa. love seat. kitchen set, chair, table, lamo at cost? The Inside Outlet has new furniture at super savings. 5 percent discount. 2122 South Bend Ave. 277-7772. M-W-F: 10:00-3:00, Tues.: 1:00-5:00, Thurs.: 1:00-8:00, Sat.: 10:00-4:00. Try us before you buy. 
Typing done in my home--You deliver and pick up. Call 232-3732. 
CUSTOM MADE RESUMES from the word processors get results. The one-time charge of $15 includes professional styling, wording your resume just right, and typing to make 
· it look its best. Write today: The Word Processors, 601 N. Wain ut, Bloomington, ln., 47401! 
Availabietor yournext party-crystal plays high-energy rock-n-roll. Call Doug, Andy 234-6353. 
Campaign chairman of Mock Conven­tion, meeting on Thursday, Feb. 14 in 2-D LaFortune at 7:00 p m. 
Spring Break Daytona Trip-:bu~ trans­portation w/ hotel $199, Dnve n Save for $99, Drive'n Save to Ft. Lauderdale $109, limited space available, 6 days-5 nights. For information call Ken· 283-1387. 
l~st&Found 
Lost: One first year law student. Does not answer to the name "Brian Walliser". If found, please return to Tex Dutile. 
----------------A 
Found: Feb. 7th, Calculator in Eng. 
Bldg. Call 8922 to identify. 
Found: Portable Pioneer Cassette tape player, found at N D ice rink on · Wed., Feb. 6th at about 11 :00 pm. Call Tim at 232-7314 to identify. 
Lost: Wire-rimmed glasses in a brown case on 2/8/80. Probably near O'Shag. If found. please call Steve Striegel 8986. 
Lost: $$offered for return of books in 
blue backpack taken from Bookstore 
2-7-80. Lisa 1330. 
Lost: Ring. If you found N D ring in 
Hayes-Healy, please see Lost and 
Found or me at 005 Fisher, 283-1877. 
Lost: One gold bracelet. Square with a clasp. Has engravings. Katie SMC 4519. 
---------------~ 
Lost: Between Stepan parking lot and Grace Hall, a pair of glasses in a brown or green case. Reward offered. Please call Mike 1782. 
Lost: Blue backpack. Missing from North Dining Hall (lunch) Feb. 4th. Frantic!! Need contents. Call 288-5465 no questions asked. 
Lost: My glasses. Highly attractive SMC sophomore cannot see herself !n the mirror. They had a gold frame ard square tinted lenses. If you have seen them, please call Colleen at 41-4374, she'll make it worth your while. 
Found: green plaid scarf in Bus. Bldg. 8785. 
Lost: HP25 Calculator in either room 303 or auditorium of Engineering Bldg. on Thurs. Feb. 7th, morning. Please call Bob at 1166 or return my calculator to Dean's office or to lost and found. 
Found: 1 pair of brown leather gloves at Junior class formal. Call ·1189 to identify. 


For Rent 
We rent dependable cars from $7.95 a 
day and 7 cents a mile. Ugly Duckling 
Rent-A-Car, 921 E. Jefferson Blvu, 
Mish, Ind. 255-2323. 

Roommate wanted. Share house with 
private large bedroom and bath. 
Recroom with pooltable, laundry facili­ties, HBO, kitchen priviledges. N0 area. Busline. $150 month. 233-5349 
~venings. 

For Rent next year, nice. large homef, furnished, couple blocks from campuf. · 277-3604, 288-0955. 

Wanted 
Wanl.:Jd: Lightweight, sturdy framed 
backpack  for  European  travel.  Call  
Gail at 237-1150.  
Wanted:  Need  ride to  Denver  over  

Spring Break. wshare driving and 
expenses. Call Dave 277-1742. 
OVERSEAS JOBS-Summer/year round. Europe, S. America. Australia, Asia, etc. All fields, $500-$1,200 monthly. Expenses paid. sightseeing. 
Free info. Write I·JC Box 52-14. CoronaJ)el Mar, Ca. 92625. 
Anyone interested in cooking classes phone "Patsy's Pantry" 232-5640. 
Going to Ft. Lauderdale? (break). If you need someone to share accomoda­tions. Call 7923. 
LEAD VOCALIST-For campus rock group. Guitar ability preferred but not required. 3463. 
Need ride to Champaign II, weekend of 2-22, Call Chris 8328. 
Needed: Essentials of Managerial Finance by Weston and Brigham. Call 3226. 
Minnesota!!! Need riders to leave on Thursday!! Call 233-6370. 
Need a ride home to Chicago for one. Can leave this Friday afternoon. Call Jane at 7933. 
1969 Delta 88 Oldsmoblile. Runs well. Asl<"ing $325.00, Call 272-9007 after 5 pm. 

Rash: Photographic equipment for sale--fantastic bargains! Cameras, len­~s. Call 232-4129. 
Accoustic Research 2ax speakers. 3 IJ\tly, one year old. $200 pair. 41-5187. 

Tickets 
Rich graduate '61 needs DePaul tix [61. Call 272-5744. 
Desperately need 3 Marquette tix. 
Please call Bill at 8288. 
Ne~Jd 2 GA Marquette tix for Jr. Parents weekend. Good$$. Call 8437 or 8436. 
Need many DePaul GA tix. Call 8437 or 8436. 
Big Bucks: 2 or 4 DePaul tickets. Call 312-372-7399 collect 9-5, ask for Alex 
D. 
Help! My brother is leading a band of warriors down for the Marquette game. 1need many tickets. Call 8300. 
Need 2 Marquette GA's. Will pay well. Call George at 8543, from 10:00 to 12:00 pm. 
Big Bucks for Marquette tickets. Call Mary or Anne 6751. 
Need 3 Marquette GA tix. Any price. 
Call Dave 1133. 
Dayton GA's Dayton GA 's Dayton GA's Dayton GA's I need' em--Mick 8212. 
Need tickets to the Marquette game on the 24th of Feb. Mike 8501. 
Will pay mega$$$ for 2 G A Marquettf: tickets. Karen 6798. 
Must have Dayton (5) tix. Please help. 41-5710. 

. $$ Desperately need 2 Dayton tickets $$. Ron 8479. 
Help! We are in dire straits. 'Ne need many Ga or student tix for Marquette game. Call Dan 8998 or Mike 3406. 
I need 2 GA and 2 student tix to DePaul game. Will pay your price. Anna SMC 5322. 
Need GA and student DePaul tickets. 
Call 232-7314. Thanks. 
Need GA tlx to any home bball game. Paul 3121. 
Need two DePaul GA tickets for Dad in Chicago$$ Rich 1187. 
Need student and GA tix for DePaul bball game. Paul 3121. 
Name your price for DePaul.' student or GA'.s. Satisfaction guaranteed. Kath Fox 134 . 
Need desperately 2 GA or student ux for DePaul. Money no object!! Call Kathy at 1314. 
Not a sportsman myself, I can't understand the willingness to pay such an exorbitant price for 2 DePaul tickets. Call 6980 if interested. 
Desperately need Marquette GA tix. Your price. Call Sean 3114. 
Please help--1 need 2-4 GA's for DePaul --will pay. 41-5223. 
Need Marquette tix. Call 8479. 
--------------.--­
Help! Need Marquette student tix. 
Call Joe 6251. 
Need 2 GA DePaul tickets. Any price' 
Call Tim 8605. 
Nee<:1 DePaul GA's for former NO b-ball player. Preferably 4 together. $$ Call Pat 1791 . 
Women: True Romance could be yours... l'm looking for a beautiful girl with personality [aren't we all?l and Marquette tix. Men: The only thing I want is your Marquette tix. Tward2 3526. 
My Dad needs 2-4 GA's for Marquette Please phone AI McGuire Jr. 1388. 
Want to see Willie-Wampum & West of Warriors get Wamped!/ Call Mr. Wa-Wa evenings at 288-5891 if you have Marquette student or GA tix. 

Take my money, just sell me 2 GA Marquette tickets. Must know soon. Sean 1771. 
Need 2-4 GA tickets for Marquette. 

Call Bill at 1104. Pay big bucks!! 

Personals 
Anyone interested in contributing some photos for a possible college lifP. "Midpoint" should contact Kathy Connelly at 7471 or John McGrath at 3106. 
ATTN. Anyone interested in working on the FLOYD R. TURBO campaigil for president, please call 8776. Ask for Floyd of course. 
ZETO ...to see him is to retch. 
Need ride to Greenbay, Wisconsin, 
Friday. February •5. Call 41 4427. 
Is he not ugly? He is ZETO ZETO for UMDC-'80 

Singing Valentines on sale now at ND-SMC dining halls. Sponsored by St. Mary's Chamber Singers. 
John Marshall. 
Since you succeeded at getting a birthday kiss, how about trying for a Valentine's one?? 
T.F. 

Tom Fleming Says: DePaul's 11. 
If you can catch Pegasus, you might be able to ride him into the Common­wealth. 
Joe Pojman 
Guess who's doing sit-ups and push-ups! Chalk one up for your campaign. 
Chuck 
Nick, Thanks for finding my scarf! From, A Lucky Girl 
Scott, Nubs, Bill, & Mike, 
Thanks so much for helping me celebrate my birthday. You guys are the best' 
Karen 
P.S. Are you up for tubing & Schnapp's Friday?? •
-·:.--------------­
Detroit Club: 
Directories available for students from Detroit area. Pickup In 375 Dillon [Pat 1850) or in 319 Farley [Rosemary 6826) 
Sal, I'm ready & willing if you are ... 
Become a part of the staff!! An Tostal organizational meeting Sunday, Feb. 17th, 7:00 pm in LaFortune Little Theatre. Be there' 

An Tostal organizational meeting Sun­. day, Feb.~ 17th, 7:00 pm in LaFortune 
"'Ult1il' Theatre. Everyone is invited and encouraged to attend. No experience necessary! 
ITS RAINING ITS POURING Tom Schuler may be exceedingly dull But Steve Rend is boring 
You can fool all the people some of the time--Vote Jc-nie Byrne V.P. 
Chris Anthony­! do indeed like you IF 
Bert. Bob. Dan, John. Brian. Brian, Annie, Barb, Barb, Marianne. Rosie, Margie, Leslie, Joanie, Roseann, Louise, and Michael---­

! want to thank you all for the super s•Jrprise party you threw for me Thursday night. I was certainly! surprised when Brian came flying out of the roof at me. I had a terrific time and I was deeply touched that you W•lLJid do a thing like that for me. 
Thanks, Berta 

-------~-------­
Happy Birthday Bryan Lee Smith. Love, Your Wife 
Hurry to reserve your spot for the BAHAMA'S SUITCASE PARTY. Call 1745 for info. 
Budd and Markie Joe: Thanks for a beautiful performance Friday and Saturday nights. It was great' 
Love. Wall Dearest Shanny, If I could only hold you in my arms tomorrow on Valentine's Day. Well, I guess I'll have to settle for my "Main Squeeze" againr 
Love, Leo 
Bob R. 
Thanks. 
Galvoid, My offer is still open ... ! dare if you dare and all that. Z 
P.S. No guts, no glory! 


j 
j 
j 
4 
•j 
j 
~ 
I 
j 
j j 
. 
-. 

( 
' 

Wednesday,February 13,1980 -page 12


-~orts 


Winter Games 
DeCicco: success minus glory 
open; U.S. 
by Frank La Grotta you that the winning streaks Maybe three times as good Sports U7riter and trophies aren't what keeps because as much as Mike skaters tie him in the game. And you DeCicco loves peale perhaps his 
LAKE PLACID, N.Y. (AP) · S11111e gu~·s are talkers. LJetter believe him because greatest love ts Notre Dame. 
The Winter Olympics opened
lhey spend the greater pan of he's telling the truth. But, then again, the way he under a cloud Tuesday with 1heir time telling you all about ''To me there are more iil)por­explains it, they are one and the the International Olympic Com­
rlw rhinr-s they'd like to accom­tanr things than all that, "he same ;hing. 
mittee rejecting President
;tit~h if o:1ly this or that didn't says fondling the trophy his "Notre Dame isn't mortar and 
Carter's proposal that _the
go.."t in They've got 1977··the first of bricks," he says with emphatic
their way. team won in 
Summer Games be moved out
pk 11ty of good intentions; just two straight NCAA awards for gestures that give away the of Moscow and Carter in
.hk 1hem. Unforrunatelv, when Italian heritage already evident
the number one team in the turn demanding that the U.S.
iltc·~ tinally run our o( breath, natto.n. in his deep-set features and not send a team. 
! he~ also run our of energy and There·s just something about olive-colored complexion. 
• r!tl·tr ledger sheet (for all you the kids on the team," he ··This place is people and that's But one American member what I love abour It. of the IOC held out hope
atli>UI1la11!s) shows a ~g fat u>rHinues. ''The feeling around It's people 
Mike DeCicco 
tl:ru. rh,u make Notre Dame a special that U.S. athletes might par­
the fencing gym .on the 
I ' ' DeCicco his academic ticipate somehow despite the
pace. sheds
~· •me guys are like that you second floor of the ACC. I'm k11ow. Bur sllme guys like Mike not ashamed to call it love In keeping with that analogy, uniform and dresses like a president's call late Tuesday 
~is night for the U.S. Olympic
DeCicco are different. because I know I love every kid DeCicco spends ~ost of fencer--which he was for four 
day--unrtl fencmg practice years as a Notre Dame under­Committee to reach a "prompt
l'i•v Ulach of Notre Dame's ·•n the team. And if those kids ktiLtng tt·am doesn't talk about can leave here and look back start..;.. as the academic coun­grad. He teaches his fencers · decision against sending a wita r he·.; done, or what he and say'Well, the classes were selor to Notre Dame's 503 the fine points of the art (the team~· to Moscow. varsirv arhletes. It's another finer points for the more exper­Neither development was un­
\\,ill!S ro do. He quietly goes out cough and this or that wasn't so way tor this quiet achiever to ienced swordsmen) and he's expected, nor was Carter'sattd Joes it, and tf the credit for great, but I really enjoyed being 
fencing accomplish even more. never too the -U.S.
111~ .tn·umplishments goes else­a part of the ream,' busy to advise a announcement that 
witne, well. quire frankly he well, thar's what makes it all ·'When you can heif someone fencer, whether he or she be an is working with a number of All-American or a freshman other governments to set up
cuuld c;;.re l~ss. . wonhit.'. realize his potentia in some other international games fory,,u sec:, Mike DeCicco isn't in Obviuusly there areJlenty of area--like academics, for in­who has trouble telling between 
to
tr f,lr thl' glot y. Back-slaps and memories accumulate over the stance--then you can actually a sabre and an epee. athletes who do not go Lun;un calls d,m·t phase him in past 1•) years... pictures of see the result of your effort,'' Ah...such is the stuff that Moscow. tlh· ica...;r. Nevertheless, there winners and almost-winners he points our with a look that winning streaks are made of. As the first competition of ha~ been plenty of both since he (DeCicco believes there are no re lis you he's as proud of the "That's something my kids the Winter Garnes began 
t1iuk over the reins of the Academic All-American have accomplis-hed,'' he em­Tuesday, the U.S. hockey team
;users if a person tries his best).
fulling ream 19 ~·ears ago; and Troph1es and plaques and plaques on his wall as he is of shasizes. ''I've been· here a lot managed a 2-2 tie with of years and each match is Sweden, thanks to a goal by 
l 
Wl[h goud reason. His career r111gs and thank you notes and rhe honors his fencers have record shows 338 wins and only each has a special place on given him. important to me; but nor be­defenseman Bill Baker with Canada,
.n losses, with two national DeCicco's wall or office shelves "Hey, it isn't easy to be a cause of a winning streak. 27 seconds left. championships and his present and in his hean. srudenr-arhlete at Notre Weekly improvement, indivi­continued on p. D Dame," he adds, standing up dual goals, these are things I
winning srreak of 114 straight · '\XIinning the national cham­matches tuLked in there some­ptunship the first rime was the on this one. "But our office look for with each match. · 
l 
plotce. And that is not a typo­biggest thrill," he reminisces. only monitors their progress '·Hey, . this streak is an ego Shari (who else?)
graphical error. -'My kids just fenced out of and helps them out when they thing. I'm nor saying it's bad, Still DeCicco sirs back on the rheir minds and to win it here ar need it. We are not baby-sit­I'm just saying it isn't the 
third floor in the administration N1>tre Dame (the Irish hosted ters and we rlay?strictly by the biggest thing on my mind leads Irish, 70-64 ~ building (A coach with an offi_ce the tournament that year) well, rules.·· 
l 
continued on p. 10 by Craig Chval 
in rhe ad building?) and tells rhat m.1de it twice as good.'' l3ack at the fencing gym, 
Sports Wn.ter 
Notre Dame basketball coach Digger Phelps may talk about
Nowalk ignites family. 
his bench and how his players
' ' 

fill certain roles at certain 
by Beth Huffman The St. Francis Academy 
times, but with one bold move,\ Women's SpGris Editor graduate selected Saint Mary's Irish women's basketball coach 
College because it wa8just what Sharon Petro has created the 
"We are famzly ... all my sis­

,, she was looking for--a small, most potenr reserve corps on ters and me.. , Catholic liberal arts college 
campus. Willie Stargell, the old-man with a good art department. Since the return of the all time and captain of the Pittsburgh "I love basketball, I enjoy it leading scorer Jane Politski to 
Pirates adopted the Sister because it's fun, but I take it the starting line-up after a seriously,'' remarked Nowalk.
Sledge hit tune for his team. sprained ankle, Petro has kept 
The song may more appro­"When I came to Saint Mary's freshman scoring sensation basketball was just secondary.
pnately in gender fit another Shari Matvey on the pines to 
Art is my form of expression,
native of Pittsburgh and her open the game. And the results 
it's a very personal thing and I
team--captain Nancy Nowalk have been devastating.
appreciate and feel fortunate
and the Saint Mary's basketball In the three games since she 
for the·talent I have.
ream. assumed her reverse role, Mat­
"I express a lot through art,
Nowalk is the old-lady, the vey has been Notre Dame's 
I'm into ceramics right now-­
onlv senior, on the Belles' leading scorer and rebounder in 
mainly on the wheel ·· I started
ream ... and without a doubt, three straight victories. Hu­<>he's the respected leader of into ceramics my sophomore nington College was the latest 
year and have chosen that
her ream. victim to Notre Dame's lethal 
medium for my senior art show. 
bench wallep, bowing to the·'l guess I am looked at as a Ceramics challenge me, and I Irish 70-64 Tuesday night. Mat­leader, bt.. t I don't feel set apart 
like challenges." 
vey who leads the 14-5 Irish infrom the ream. They respect me 
Though she hopes to coach scoring, rebounding, field goala" a senior and I respect them bask-:t ball after graduation No­
percentage and blocked shots,and rheir talent. Our team is 
walk, who averages right 
tinished with 21 poinst and
n~ cohesive, something I a 
around 12 points a game, will dozen reboundsha\'en't experienced in the rely on her art as a ltvelihood.
past.·' offered the soft-spoken continued on p. 11
''I'm certified to teach kinder­:-.:Pwalk. 
garten through 12th grade after t'hc-Holv Cross resident mod­I graduate. I'll probably go into esrlv credits her teammates art therapy," stated the Belle's 
...while Belles douse Nazareth 
wirh the successful season she starting forward. "It's a new is having. field and exciting to me--I'll by Deirdre Grant with 16 points. Mary Zuenlke ·"Mary's an excellent player," 
''1 have improved this year work with the ·handicapped, Sportswn.ter and Anne Armstrong connected related the coach. "We don't more than the other three years emotionally disturbed and el­Saint Mary's used consistent for 12 ap:ece, while Mary want to make her injury any combined. The other kids have derly. I enjoy working with shooting and strong rebounding Bayless con~ributed 10. Defen­worse. good attitudes and talent, I people and I am drawn to work to trample Nazareth 91-26 last sively. Ellen Hoye had an Dallessio also felt think thev've made me a better with the disadvantaged. night at the Angela Athletic impressive 12 rebounds. Collen that last night's game was an player.''· ''I give as mum of myself to Facility. The Belles picked up Wojeiechowski led Nazareth overall boost to the team's 
Nowalk is not slight in her laud people as I can: I feel fortunate their second win in as many l2 points. morale, which he feels is crucial ofCoach Jerry Dallessio and his for the talent opportunities that days and improved their record Belles coach, Jerry Dallessio, for the remainder of their efforts, either. I have and I think I should share to 11-8. was pleased with the perfor­pia ying schedule. The Belles ''Jerry is an excellent co~ch., them.'' Saint Mary's jumped mance of the entire team. After travel to Purdue-Calumet on We have improved unbeliev­Nowalk gained field exper­ahead early in the game, lead­snapping their three-game los­Thursday in a game Dallessio ably 100 percent. I'm glad I ience in her teaching when she ing 22-6 ar the 10 minute mark, ing streak in a hard fought says "can't be taken too lightly, could be a part of the beginning journeyed to New Mexico two and never had to take a second game on Monday against St. although we beat them convin­because the whole program is years ago. In that southwestern glance back. Poor shooting and Francis, the Belles found a . cingly at home.''Further ahead going somewhere--and u's due stare she helped to teach cate­ball control on Nazareth's part great deal of confidence and on Saturday, the Belles will toJerry's efforts," said Nowalk cism to underpriveleged Span-allowed the Belles to build a optimism. Dallessio was happy back at the Angela Athletic as . she praise-d the Belles' 46-12 halftime advantage. wtth the pl~y of Zuehlke, who Facility to facr undefeated and
continued on p. 10
second year mentor. Maureen Kelley le.d th~ Belles had been on the injured list. top-ranked Butler University. 






