
• 
.I-bw 'bout no. 2?-page 12
' ' 

VOL. XV, NO. 59, an independent srudent newspaper serving notre dame and saint mary's Tuesday, November 18, 1980 
• 
Elections today 
Student Senateoffers hope 
For COinmunist killings
Jury acquits Nazis , Klansmen 


By Tom Jackman Executive News Editor 
Student Government will hold elections today for the five Student Senate positions created by last month's student referendum to rewrite the Student Constitution. 
The new constitution replaces the Board of Commissioners with a Student Senate, which adds to the new body the four class officers and five students elected from five geographic districts. 
The Senate will have a total ofl8 members, with the Student Body President casting·a vote in all ties. 
SBP Paul Riehle's ctriginal plan, after the passage of the referendum, was to have the proposal power of the Campus Life Council transferred to the new Student Senate. But in its bi-annual meeting last month, the University's Board of Trustees re­jected this plan, and instructed Riehle instead to "revitalize" the CLC. 
Riehle had attacked the CLC for its inef­fectiveness, and he has not convened a single meeting of the Council this year. Riehle charged that the only power the CLC had was to make proposals to the Vice President ofStudentAffairs, and even that ability was hampered by the Vice President's, and other Administrators', presence on the Council. 
Despite the Trustees' action, Riehle is going ahead with the Student Senate elections, although under the present structure, it will have to report in turn to the CLC. 
Riehle defended the future of the Student Senate, saying it will "decide how we go after things in the CLC, by forming a solid opinion," and "will do things on its own." He said this will include a review ofthe party and disciplinary policies ofall residential dorms, with ratings given to hall staffs and rectors. 
Riehle also has been given the opportunity to alter the CLC constitution by the Trustees, and he 
(continued on page 4) 

GREENSBORO, N.C. (AP)­An all-white jury yesterday ac­quitted four Ku Klux Klansmen and two Nazis of murder and rioting charges tied to a bloody "Death to the Klan" rally at which five Communist Workers Party supporters were shot and killed a year ago. 
The defendants sat expression­less as the jury ofsix men and six women returned the verdicts at 
5: 12 p.m., following seven days of deliberation. They wept with friends and relatives after court was adjourned. 
"It was a case of self-defense and we expected the not guilty verdict," said defense attorney Robert Cahoon. "I know they're 
(the  defendants)  happy  over  
this."  
Before the verdict  was  read,  

Superior Court Judge James Long directed a dozen police officers in the packed courtroom to "arrest and remove anyone who disrupts the reading of the verdict." Long said he would tolerate no outbursts; there were none. 
The trial, which lasted 96 days, was said to have been the longest in North Carolina history. 
The slayings occurred at the CWP-sponsored "Death to the Klan" rally in Greensboro on Nov. 3, 1979. The six defendants were charged with five counts each of first-degree murder and felonious rioting. They pleaded innocent to all charges. 
The jury could have returned verdicts of first-degree murder, first-degree murder by premedi­tation and deliberation, second­degree murder, voluntary man­slaughter or innocent. 
The trial was the first time videotapes were admitted as evidence in North Carolina. The tapes, taken by-four television stations covering the rally, were repeatedly played at various speeds for jurors. 
The Nazi defendants wereJack Wilson Fowler, 27, and Roland Wayne Wood, 35, both of Winston-Salem. The Klan de­fendants are Jerry Paul Smith, 33, Maiden; Coleman Blair Pridmore, 27, Lincolnton; Lawrence Gene Morgan, 28, Lincolnton; and David Wayne Matthews, 24, Newton. 
'"We do not condone the ac­tions ofany ofthe three groups," said jury foreman Octavio 

A glimpse ifl the libraryfinds one ofmany inSurviving ... silent study. See related photo on page 3. 
Mandulay. "We regret that this unfortunate thing happened in our city." 
Robert Williams, another juror, said the jury did not be­lieve any group had the right to "thrust its political beliefs on the citizens ofthe United States." He did not elaborate. 

(continued on page 4) 
Pfter 'Btma game 



Vandalistn angers area residents 
by john M. Higgins' and Paul McGinn 
Following Saturday's victory over Alabama, South Bend resi­dents reported a wave ofstudent vandalism to city officials, who reacted strongly yesterday to the numerous complaints received. 
"We received complaints from neighbors about kids beating on the cars and lying on the street in front of the cars," Northeast Neighborhood Council President Arthur Quigley said yesterday. "The 800 block of Notre Dame Avenue was a shambles. There was a shattered television set and a concrete bench was overturned and de­stroyed," 
"I was appalled. I have a very high opinion of Notre Dame students. I really feel that the ones involved have let both the community and the rest of the students down," he added. 
"I was pretty excited, too. But there is no excuse for lying in front ofin front ofa car driven by an elderly lady," Quigley com­mented. 
City Councilman Lewis McGann said that he received several calls from residents. 
"I received a complaint about an ambulance that was unable td get through because of the crowds, and one from a lady whose car was stopped by a stu­dent who knelt in the street in frontofher," McGann said. "The 800 block· of Notre Dame A venue looked like the stadium parking lot after a football game. 
"I've lived on the northeast side all my life, and parties after games have always been a part of living near Notre Dame," McGann continued, "but this destruction goes beyond some­thing the neighbors will toler­
at~." 

'The BOO block of Notre Dame Avenue was a shambles.' 
McGann said he spoke with Mayor Roger Parent yesterday morning and believed that the mayor would meet with Notre Dame officials to see what could be done to remedy the situation. The councilman then called 

James Roemer, dean ofstudents. 
Roemer contacted Student Body 
President Paul Riehle and told him to get the area cleaned up as soon as possible. 
Dean Roemer called me this morning and told me to get the area cleaned up," Riehle said, "but when we got down there, we found that students had already cleaned everything up." 
Some students took exception to the criticisms levied against them. One commented that while some passing motorists were harassed, most of them were students. The only incident of vandalism, according to the student, was a Notre Dame Apartment building sign­sprayed with shaving cream­
proclaiming"ND#l Bama0-4." 
The student was particularly incensed at a South Bend Trthune article that reported that a con­crete bench had been de~troyed after Saturday's game. 
"That bench was n1oved last weekend and busted by at least Wednesday," the Notre Dame Apartment resident said. "It's completely wrong," he added. 
Quigley, however, responded, "We're willing to be good neigh­bors but it's hard when we see something like this happen. We can't make the community bet­ter if there are a minority of people who are intent on ruining it," he concluded. 

----~------­
• 


News Brief.§ 
Tuesday, November 18, 1980 -page 2 
c===~========~================================~ 
by The Observer and The Associated Press 
By usine a wave of tank-led reinforcements and lielicopters, ftanian forces claimed to have thrown back Iraqi invaders ofSusangerd yesterday-driving the Iraqis into retreat. The countries had been fighting for Iranian border town for three days. Claims ofenemy casualties there from both sides totalled more than 1,300 in 48 hours. A Baghdad military command communique did not mention withdrawal, instead claiming successful helicopter and fighter raids on Iranian installations at Susangerd. Earlier it claimed heavy damage against Iranian land and naval forces there. Tehran radio said more than 200 Iraqis were killed yesterday in addition to 650 the day before. Baghdad earlier claimed 511 Iranian dead in two days. There was no way to confirm the figures. Tehran radio said the Iranians suffered "tens of martyrs," and Iraq said it lost 34 men Monday in Susangerd. Fears that the two-month-old war between Iran and Iraq would spread to other oil nations on the Persian Gulfmounted with Kuwait's formal protest to Iran over the second aerial rocket attack in five days onan Kuwaiti border post. -AP 
Twelve arrests were made during last Friday's raid at Bridget McGuire's Filling Station, acc.ording to South Bend Police Sergeant Edward Summers. He said he received complaints that minors had been drinking in Bridget's and that officers had observed "a number of what seemed to be underage drinkers" entering the bar. Plans for the raid were coordinated with State Excise officers Thursday, Summers said, and carried out after officers inside the bar Friday night observed "questionable people." The sergeant was uncertain how many Notre Dame or Saint Mary's students were arrested. 
-The Observer 
/ ­

Kentucky cannot post the Ten Commandments in every public school classroom, the Supreme Court ruled yesterday. By a 5-4 vote, the nation's highest courtsaid posting the commandments in public schools violates the Constitution's freedom-of-religion guarantees. The court's decision, coming in an unsigned opinion, reversed ·a Kentucky Supreme Court ruling that the state's action was constitutional. "The pre-eminent purpose for posting the Ten Commandments on schoolroom walls is plainly religious in nature," the court said. "The Ten Commandments is un­deniably a sacred text in theJewish and Christian faiths, and no legislative recitation ofa supposed secular purpose can blind us to that fact." The court's majority includedJustices William]. BrennanJr., Thurgood Marshall, John Paul Stevens, Byron R White and Lewis F. Powell Jr. ChiefJustice Warren E. Burger and Harry A. Blackmun dissented, voting to review the case more fully before deciding it. Justices Potter Stewart and William H. Rehnquist said the Kentucky Supreme Court was right. At issue was a state law requiring the Ten Com­
mandments to be posted in all schoolrooms. -AP 
' Larry Hagman, better known to "Dallas" fans as "J.R," sttll isn't saying who shot him. "You haven't got that much money," he joked as British Broadcasting Corp. disc jockey Terry Wogan begged to know which character in the popular prime-time soap opera shot the netariousJ.R Ewing. Hagm: n was in London for Monday night's Royal Variety Show for charity at the London Palladium, where he was to sing, dance and tell jokes before the Queen Mother Elizabeth and an invited audience. Producers ofthe TV show promise all will be revealed in the upcoming episode to be broadcast Friday night in the U.S. and Saturday night in Britain, where 20 million are expected to tune in. Hagman, breezing aroundLondonin black Stetson and cowboy boots, said he revels in the J.R role. "I might as well enjoy it while it lasts. It can't go on forever," he said. -AP 
Most American banks raised their prime lending rate to 16.25 percent yesterday, a three-quarters of a percentage point rise that took the key rate to its highest level since mid May. The increase, linked to the Federal Reserve's latest credit-tightening moves, could signal higher interest rates for consumers in coming weeks. And some Wall Street analysts said the nearly three-month-long round ofprime rate increases was not finished yet. "The prime rate's going to have to go higher," perhaps as high as 17 percent, by"late in the week or early next week," said economist Bob Sinche at the brokerage house of Bear, Stearns & Compa!lY· -AP 
Clear and cool today with highs around 4o. Clear and colder tonight, with lows in the mid 20s. Fair and cool tomorrow with highs in the mid 40s. 
Inside Tu&lay 
1hehostage crisis tedium 
I have a confession to make. It's not that I'm un-
American, unfeeling or un-anything else. I'm just sick ofthe entire hostage affair. I am also sickened by it. For the circus atmosphere that now prevails seem to only foster the sense of hopelessness that already permeates the American consciousness. 
When the hostages were captured, the nation was stunned by the shock of the Iranians' af­frontery. Disbelief that so t~ny a country could "bring America to her knees," emerged. Now, sentiments range from a yawn to a yell of"nuke 'em." Obviously, neither ofthese are healthy ways 
to look at a very unhealthy situation. 
Large-scale attempts--to keep the memory of the hostages alive--meant well, I'm sure, but now appear simply tacky. 
First came the news blitz, as each network strived to provide the most up-to-minute coverage of some angry Iranian student's tonsils while he shouted obscenities about "imperialist 
pigs." ABC won that battle. The offspring of Roone Arledge's nightly count-up, (35 days ... 196 days ... 214 days ... ) now called Nightline, currently late-night ratings. 
The simple truth in ;this situation is that very little couldhave been done to prevent the occurrence of such a tragedy. And, now that the worst has hap­pened, our hands are all but tied. The Iranians have defied all logic with their negotiating tactics. They have set forth their conditions, TVhich they continue to cling to like stubborn children, des­pite the well-publicized fact that the U.S. gov­ernment cannot legally comply with these de­mands. Their hostile stance can only hurt them as their way against Iraq continues, for they are not very high on anyone's best friend list. 
and unable to control our own foreign affairs. 
The issue is so blown out of proportion by the media that the 52 men seem almost not to mat­ter any longer. American is being held hostage-but by misconceptions. We lost touch with the real issue back around Day 25­

when the hostagesp===ti~-~~~--..,..,...--:-:-J--stopped being people and 

So, we must deal with an irrational entity. But why do we let this occurrence undermine our national pride? The facta that Iran is holding American hostages does not mean that American is held hostage, as ABC contends. Nor does it serve notice of our vulnerability to attack from foreign powers. 
The effects of this unavoidable state ofaffiars was nonetheless far-reaching in the American psyche. President-elect Ronald Reagan owes much of his support to disillusioned citizens who felt that his 
The.OhserY..er A New lf'ave.. . Derign Editor. .................... , ... .. Ryan "B-S2's" Ver Berkmoes Design AmstantJ.· ...................... . Ron "Talkin~t Heads" Haynes, Maura "Lydia Lunch" Murphy, Diane "Kinks" Mazurek Day Technician: ....................... . Bruce "The Policemen" Oakley Night Technician: ...................... . Tina "The Kinjts" Terlaak Newr Editor.·. Lynne "Fetal Brains" Daley Copy Editor.· .......................... . Mary Fran "Plasmatic" Callahan Sporl! Copy Editor: .. ................... . Gary "Sex Pistol" Grassey Typitl! ... Michelle "Kate Bush" Kelleher Suzie "Biondie" Sulentic Syttems Technician:. .................... . Tim "Pat Benitar" Debelius ND Day Editor: ... .. Barb "Bugles' Biehl SMC Day Editor.· ...................... . Cathy "Queen" Domanico S11pp/emental Photogropkr: .............. . Phil "Buzzcocks" Johnson Photographe~ ... Rachel "Bonzo dog band" Blount (;/lett Appearonrer: Eileen on Planet Claire Sid Swonk, Jeanne "Motels" Laboe  
Thl Observer (USPS 598 920) Is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer Is publishedby the students of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $20 per year($1 0 per semester) by writing The Observer, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. The Observer Is a member of the Associated Press. All reproductionrights are reserved.  

··~·········· 
L~e

Daley 
News Editor 
hard-nosed national defense proposals would 

somehow redeem our present embarrassment. Carter's ineffectiveness in dealing for the hostages' release also cost him a large numberOfvotes. And, with Carter's defeat came the ouster ofDemocrats all over the country--and a Republican takeover in the Senate. 
This need not have been the case. Had the Democratic party been led by another candidate, the widespread slaughter might have been less severe. Democrats were forced to tread gingerly when discussing the hostage issue, or risk in­curring the wrath of a frustrated public.
It seems, then, that 52 men held hostage in an embassy thousands of miles away have had a dis­proportionate effect on our national history. Theyhave altered Ot!r very self image, so thatwe now see ourselves as weak 
p.~. became a case for nation­al embarrassment. 

Observer Notes __ 
The Observer news department has announced the promotion of two staff members. Lynne ualey, a junior from Pittsfield, Mass., has been promoted to News Editor. Mary Fran Callahan, a sophomore from Park Ridge, Ill., will replace Daley as Senior Copy Editor. 


The Observer Tuesday, November 18, 1980-page 3 

A player andpingpong ball aJ recorded mid-motion. Her concentration and the ascending sphere show that this is still agame ofgravity and levity. (Photo by Rachel Blount.) 
Infamous 'Gang of lbur' face prosecution in court 
PEKING (AP)--Defense Min­ister Lin Piao wanted so badly to be China's top leader nine years ago that he planned to ask the Soviet Union to help him stage a coup, after he assassinated Mao Tse-tung, Chinese officials said yesterday in setting the scene for the "Gang of Four" trial. 
Lin and five allies, all of whom are now dead, plotted to use flame throwers. bazookas, dynamite or bombs to stop a train carryin~ Mao and kill him in the ensumg confusion, the Foreign Ministry said. 
The long-awatted trial of the Gang, led by Mao's widow Jiang Qing, and the six mem­bers of the ''Lin Piao Clique'' could start as early as today. The Chinese press has said that execution could be the penalty for conviction of ser­tous ''counterI revolutionary'' crimes. 
The Gan~ and its allies are charged wtth causing the deaths of more than 3,435 people by persecuting them dunng the 1966-1976 "Cultural Revolution,'' a decade of pur­
ges and factional strife, offi­
cials said in briefings on the prosecution's case. 
. The government has char~ed the defendants with frammg and persecuting many top Communist Party and national officials, including Deng Xiao­
ping, who is currently oversee-ms China's industrialization dnve.
An indictment issued against af
the defendants says that ter Lin's plot failed, the Gang of 
and its allies "conducted
activities against 
rv•_,.uuu·IJ until being ex-
and smashed in October 

6."
97
Lin was Mao's chosen sue-but the indictment says de~ided to try to kill him failing to win the chair-i of the Communist t~rough peaceful means the autumn of 1970. Lin and wife hoped "to launch a attack from the north south in alliance with the 
-
Soviet Union," the indictment says. 
Lin planned to kill Mao in early September, 1971 by as­saulting his train near Shang­hai during an inspection tour, the indictment says. But the plan went awry when Mao returned to Peking earlier than expected, it says. 
Lin fled China by air on Sept. 13, 1971 but died when his plane crashed near Undur Khan in Mongolia, Chinese officials said. Also killed in the crash were Lin's wife and son and a high-ranking air force officer, they said. 

Ole year later 



People's Temple rermins alive 
by David Einstein Associated Press Wnter 
The Peoples Temple died 
along with 913 ofits members in 
a SouthAmerican jungle dearing 
two years ago today. But the 
cult built in California by the 
Rev. JimJones still has not been 
buried. 
It lives in the courts, where survivors and heirs ofthose killed in the mass murder/suicide at Jonestown, Guyana, are fighting for shares of the Temple's $7 million in assets. 
It lives in the unatoned-for 
murders of California Rep. Leo 
Ryan and four others who were 
ambushed on a Guyanese land­
ing strip moments before the 
massacre at Jonestown. 
First word trickling out of the 
jungle put the death toll at 300, 
but the number lurched to three 
times that when soldiers, re­
moving the decaying corpses, 
found the bodies of babies, 
children and adults two and three 
deep under other victims. 
Some of the 79 survivors said Jones told members that suicide 
was necessary to protest test 
what the world was doing to their 
community. He urged them fo 
"die with dignity." Some by 
choice, others by force, gulped 
fruit drink laced with cyanide and 
died. 
"You could not see the ground," said one reporter. "It was literally covered with bodies. From the air ft looked like a garbage dump where someone had dropped a lot of rag dolls." 
Ryan was shot dead as he and his entourage prepared to return to the United States after checking charges that Temple members were being physically abused and having their money confiscated. 
Also killed in the ambush were 
three newsmen and Temple 
member Patricia Parks, who was 
defecting along with her hus­
band, son and two daughters. 
"The ·memories are just too 
horrible," says Jerry Parks of 
Pope meets many follotwrs during ~t German tour 
FULDA. West Germany (AP)--Pope John Paul 11 greet­edJews, Moslems, Protestants ana ethnic minorities yesterday stressing a theme ofequality at the midpoint of his journey h h 1 d d 
t rough t e an once ravage 
by Nazi racism.
In a homily during a Mass for West Germany's 65 Roman Catholic bishops here, 13 miles from the East German border, the Pope also firmly restated the church's celibacy rule and urged bishops and priests to encourage Roman Catholics to c · · 
go to con1esstOri, a practtce he 
said has dropped sharply.
The 60-year-old Polish-born pontiff spoke of the "the dark 
b
ackground'' of persecution in Nazi Germany 10 a meeting with a 24-member delegation
from .the Central C~mncil of Jews m Germany, whtch repr~­sents most of the country s 30:?00 W~st German.J«:ws.. 
The 10noc~nt vicqms 10 G~rmany and. 10 other coun­t~tes._..~e t~agic pro<?f of where discnm10_au?n and disregard of h~man dtgmty ~an lead, espe­cially when. amma~ed by per­verse theones and Ideas about difference in value of the races," the Pope said. 

Fulda, in the rolling hills of the state of Hesse, is one of five German dioceses divided berween East and West Ger­many and numbers many Cath­olics who left eastern Europe. It was the Pope's fifthe stop on his five-day mission aimed at reconciling differences be­rween West Germany's Roman Catholics and Protestants. 
The visit, John Paul's eighth abroad from the Vatican, is the first by a Pope to Germany in 198 years. 
Thousands of foreigners, many in their national dress, cheered the Pope as he spoke in the flag-decked cathedral square in Mainz, an ancient Rhine river city, before arriv­ing here by helicopter. 
The Pope reminded Ger­mans: ''You have enjoyed not only the economic advantages springing from the labor of millions offoreign workers, but have also helfed them to take advantage. o the le~al and social safeguards of thts coun­try." 
Ukiah, Calif., who watched as his charges of conspiracy in the 
killings.

wife was cut down in a hail of 
For some, the nightmare was

bullets. "I don't think about it 
too much to ta.ke. Michael

much anymore, but there are 
Prokes, a Peoples Temple

times, when you're alone, when 
spokesman who survived Jones­

it will come back to you." 
town, shot and killed himself 

TUESDAy;:::;:;:;:::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~a~f.~~~~~i.later at a Modesto, 
...........FOCus 
Two former members died last 

~·:·:·:·:·:·:-;·:·:,; . February. AI and Jeannie Mills iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii;i;;;;" were fatally shot along with their daughter at their home in Larry Layton, a Jones loyalist, Berkeley, Calif. The Millses, who was one of those arrested fol­operated a home for cult de­lowing the ambush. Guyanese fectors, had at one time ex­authorities earlier this month pressed fear of reprisal from a indicated a readiness to dismiss Temple "hit squad." murder charges against him in an The Millses' son was arrested, agreement that would send the questioned and released for lack 33-year-old San Franciscan back ofevidence. The crime never was to the United States to face solved. 

A glimpJe in the library finds another who is ... boredom stlent, but not so studious. A relatedphoto is onpage 
1. (Both photos by Rachel Blount.) 

T----------------~' 
' ... t 
t FOOTBALL FANS: t t t t t t COME SEE t t 14 FARLEY WOMEN t t SCOREII t 
t t 
t &
t lnterhall Finals , t Wednesday, 8 p.m., Cartier Field : 
t t 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
• 



!TONIGHT AT LEE'S! 
: $2.00 Pitchers : • ·hp ch . •
:wtt ur ase of Dmner• 
. : 
:GOOD BAR-B-QUE : : AND BREWS, AT :



i . LEE'S!! 
The Observer Tuesday, November 18, 1980 -page 4 
... Senate· 


(continued from page 1) 

said last night he will include half of the Student Senate on the Council, including all five elected representatives, and that he plans to eliminate the Vice President of Student Affairs from the CLC. This would reduce the number of CLC members from 19 to 18, and will reduce the number needed to pass a resolution from 13 to 12, and the number for a quorum from 14 to 13. 
The five district seats up for election today represent students in the following halls: District 1-St. Ed's, Lewis, Holy Cross, Carroll, Sorin, Walsh and Alumni: District 2-Stanford, Keenan, Zahm, Cavanaugh, Breen-Phillips and Farley: District 3-Dillon, Fisher, Pangborn, Lyons, Morrissey, Badin and Howard: District4­
Flanner, Grace, Villa Angela and Pasquerrilla East and West (when opened): District 5 -all off­campus students. 
Six students are vying for the available seat in District 1: Mary Sue Callan, a freshman from Lewis Hall; Bob Helle, a senior from Alumni; Anne Magner, a freshman from Walsh; Jeanne McCarthy, a sophomore from Walsh; James O'Neill, a sophomore from Sorin; and Eileen Wirley, a junior from Lewis. 
Three students are contesting the District 2 position: Hans Hoerdemann,. a sophomore from Keenan; KurtPfotenhauer, a junior from Keenan; and Frank Tighe, a junior from Zahm. 
The District 3 seat is the most fiercely contested spot, with seven students running: EllenBanovetz, a freshman from Lyons; Patrick Borchers, a sophomore from Pangborn; Carl Carney, a sophomore from Fisher; Michael Cicero, a senior from Dillon; Michael Dandurand, a freshman from Dillon; Kevin Finney, a freshman from Morrissey; and Cathy Sieros, a freshman from Lyons. 
Five students are running for the District4 seat: Stephen Hudoba, a junior from Flanner; Mike O'Connor, a sophomore from Grace; Jeffrey Newby, a junior from Flanner; Robert Stamper, a freshman from Flanner; and Thomas W eithman, a junior from Flanner. 
The off-campus, District 5 seat is being con­tested by three students: Mitch Feikes, a senior; Kathleen Kucaba, a junior; and Brian Stanley, a freshman. 
Voting will take place from 11: 30 a.m. to 1 p.m. in all dorms, and again from 4: 30 to 6: 30 p.m. All off-campus students can vote from 11 a.m. to 2 
p.m. inLaFortune, butCampusViewresidentscan voteatCampusViewfrom 3:30 to6:30 p.m. Other off-campus students can vote at Notre Dame Apartments from 3:30 to 6:30 p.m. 

'A great victory' 
N~ leader rejoices oververdict 

&nished! 


Need some extra money for college? You can earn up to $9;000 while you're in school, serving part·time with the Army Reserve. Unlike many part·time jobs, ours fits into your schedule. All it takes is a weekend a month during the school year, the rest of your training is in the summer-seven weeks one summer, at least eight weeks the next, plus two weeks annual training. Interested? Stop by today. 
MEET10DAY'SARMYRESERVE. 
Sgt. Young (219)234-4780 


1( *~Pt~M!r * 
•:.w.=. ..e\.w 


80-DIDLtY~~* U~\!* 
FRIDAY •18¥. 21, 1:11 P.l 
lt77Ti&DAN£A.~C. 
eiiiNI'lllnlltt ..CIIIIIItii.Seflnl ....t . ....,.. 
....Eldwl ,..,. ........, ............... ...Cllr ..... s-. III!IM 111&,1.1 ....... 
................... CIIr ............. .
............~ ..........,.,,.......
............~.-................... 
~
......., ......._ 

RALEIGH, N.C. (AP)--Na­tional Nazi leader Harold Cov­ington said yesterday's inno­cent verdicts in the trial of six Ku Klux Klan and Nazi mem­bers was "a great victory for white America'' and said his group plans a major 'rcounter­attack against the govern­ment.'' 
"We are absolutely overjoy­ed,'' Covington said. ''The verdicts are fantastic. It shows we can beat the system on their own ground. That jury's decision represents the wishes of the people of North Caro­lina." ­
The six had been accused of killing five Communist Work­ers Party supporters at . a "Death to the Klan" in Gre­ensboro on Nov. 3, 1979. 
• • • Klan 

(continued from page 1) / 
In Washington, D.C., DrewS. Days, head of the Justice Department's civil rights divi­sion, said the division was studying the verdict "to see if there is anything we can do." In the past, the federal government has brought criminal civil rights charges in some cases after ac-

CHICAGO 


O'HARE 
AIRPORT EXPRESS *3 TRIPS DAILY 
7 DAYS A WEEK 
ONLY

$1soo 
1round trip 528.00i 

Covington is national party leader of the National party leader of the National Socialist Party of America--commonly called the Nazi party. 
Two of the men found inno­cent yesterday were Nazi mem­bers and four were members of the Ku Klux Klan. The two groups had forged a rough alliance in North Carolina befor the blooky confrontation in Greensboro on Nov. 3, 1979. 
Covington, commenting in a telephone interview from his party's national headquarters m Raleigh, said he would announce a "counter-attack against the government'' at a news conference today. 
He said the new initiative would be the beg;nning of "a white revolution, replacing ty­
quittals were handed down on local charges. 
Killed were Sandra Smith, 29, a textile worker and labor or­ganizer from Piedmont, S.C.; James Waller, 37, a medical school graduate and CWP or­ganizer in textile plants; Cesar Vinton Cauce, 25, a Durham hospital worker; William Sampson, 31, a former Harvard Divinity School student who had worked in textile mills, and Michael Roland Nathan, 33, a Durham physician. 
The Klansmen and Nazis had arrived at the rally staging area in a caravan ofcars and vans. A stick fight that broke out between the 
two groups escalated into a gun battle . 
After 88 seconds, accordil).g to evidence in the trial, four leftists were dead and six others were wounded. One of the wounded died two days later and another remains confined to a wheel­chair. 
During the trial, prosecutors and defense lawyers painted con­trasting pictures of the events leading to the clash. Defendants testified they only meant to "heckle the communists." Pro­secutors insisted the Klansmen and Nazis came armed and look­ing for a fight. 
Each defendant told jurors 
that shots were fired only after ranny.'' 
Covington declined to give details of his group's plans. Asked if they would be violent, he said, "It is not intended to be. It may become so." 
"Tomorrow the counter-at­tack begins. It's a whole new tactical direction for the party. Internally, it's the most signifi­cant thing we've done in the history of the American Nazi party." 
"For the first time it's going 
to  make  us  a  threat  to  the  
sy!)tem," he said.  
Covington  said  he  under­ 

stood that one of the two acquitted Nazis, Jack Wilson Fowler Jr., plans to resign from the party. 
. the caravan was attacked by the communists. "These defendants were not even capable of pulling offsome kind .of well-organized premed­itated plan, not like the Com­munist Workers Party," defense lawyer Jeffrey Farran argued. "Most of them didn't even know each other" before the Klan group gathered that morning. Assistant District Attorney Rick Greeson told jurors the de­fendants had come to Greens­boro "spoiling for a fight." "We contend that one com­mon bond bigotry brought the defendants to the scene that day," he said. 
============= 
Child abuse film screens 


atSMC 
Ordinary People, a short film concerning child abuse, will be shown tonight at 7:30 in Carroll Hall at Saint Mary's. After the film, a member ofCAN CO (Child Abuse and Neglect Coordinating Organization) will speak. Both events are open to the public. 

The Observer Tuesday, November 18, 1980-page .5 






OOPS., the factory goofed ! 

AN ERROR IN PACKAGING CAUSED THESE SETS TO CONTAIN A ROUND 81NCH CAKE PAN INSTEAD OF A SQUARE ONE AS INDICATED ON THE BROCHURE. OUR RETAIL OUTLETS WILL NOT ACCEPT THESE SETS DUE TO THIS ERROR. WE ARE FORCED TO LIQUIDATE OUR SUPPLY. SO, GO AHEAD, TAKE IT: A 
$149.50 SET FOR 
$25 
-
For Use in All Ovens New including MICROWAVE 31 PIECE OVENWARE 
Modern COOK-'N'-SERVE ENSEMBLE 

Miracle 
ieo/Hl/ 
Primrose Dream decorated Milk White Bakeware is so practical •.• Primrose
Way 
Dream Bakeware fired at 1200° F •.• makes set impervious to oven heat, Icy 4950 cold. Set will be intact. 
~ For best reaulta •• _.tter removing ovenwere from refrlgeretor, ovenwere ahould be room tempereture before replec:lng In oven . • . l•ve et room tempereture before oven to refrlgeretor ••• refreln from ualng direct flemea or h•t. 
$ 
31 PIECE ENSEMBLE CONSISTS OF: 
•a pc. Gourmet Casserole Set *1 qt. Utility Pan *1 Y2 qt. Round Casserole *16 pc. Custard dup Set *2 qt. Round Casserole *Divided Vegetable Dish *1 % qt. Oblong Oven Baker • See th ru Cover for 1% and 2 qt. 
(or Round Baker) Casseroles Interchangeable 
\ 
The sale will be located In the Blue and Gold Room 
In the Morris Inn on the Notre Dame University Campus. 
ONE DAY ONLY!lll Wednesday, Nov. 19 7:30 a.m.-5:30p.m. .................. ~ 



Editorials 
Tuesday, November 18, 1980 -page 6 
Who needs Affinnative action? 
Anthony Waltm 
Well, well, well, they didn't waste in the first few weeks ofthe Reagan not you feel that you have some­two groups that I will make a it is true that slavery as a legalized much time. I picked up the news­administration. Senator Orrin thing to gain or something to lose. I defense of affirmative action, institution ended over 100 years paper last Thursday and what did I Hatch, one of the most conser-think that many whites are against because it is at this most basic level ago, the ramifications of it are see? A headline "End Affirmative vative (and l;>elligerent) of conser-affirmative action because they that it must be preserved. being felt to this day. One apparent Action, Reagan Told." Maybe I vatives, has called for an end to all feel that they are being personally Why should certain groups be example was settlement in the wasn't being so paranoid after all. affirmative action programs, and unfairly penalized for some­given special advantages? Why 1800s. While the pioneers were Less than ten days after Reagan is through a constitutional amend-thing which they personally had should a qualified person be denied out settling the West and acquiring elected a conservative think-tank ment if necessary.( Itis curious that nothing to do with. This may be something that he has ostensibly 
land which would be passed on tothat goes by the rather curious conservatives say that a constitu-theoretically true, and is under­earned, in order to give preference their descendants, blacks were moniker ofthe Heritage Foundation tiona! amendment is not needed to standable, but it is a convenient and to a black or a woman? As distaste­slaves, and could not participate.
(whose heritage?) has submitted a assure women's rights, but insist on superficial dismissal of reality ful and unpleasant as it sounds, I Since inherited wealth is a major3,000-page report to Reagan and one on several of their issues, like First, affirmative action does not can think of plenty ofgood reasons: factor in economic advancement inhis advisers recommending several abortion and affirmative action.) apply solely to blacks and other I. Consider the history and this society, blacks were left in achanges in federal policy. Among And Hatch also wants to stop the ·· ethnic and racial minorities. It tradition of black people in this very disadvantageous situation.
them are the abolishment ofbusing government from collecting all extends to women, and in some country. Blacks were taken out of 2. The emancipation was nto achieve integration and a pro­race-related information (perhaps cases even to white males, if there their native land and culture against great salvation, either. In fact, iposal to do away with that great in the hope that minorities will once is a proven and unjustifiable record their will, brought to a radically made matters worse, because blacks bane of all lovers of fair play and and for all disappear). The battle of exclusion and discrimination different and hostile country, were released en masse into "free­non-discriminatory practices, affir­lines are being drawn, sides are toward a certain group as a whole. stripped of their humanity and dom" without much more than the mative action. being taken, CJld it will be an It only applies to public situations dignity, and forced to endure 200 clothes on their backs. This gaveAffirmative action. In some intense and emotional situation, such as jobs and housing oppor­years of formal, institutionalized, rise to that monument of fairnesscircles a very naughty word. Brings since there are understandable tunities (a country club or some governmentally sanctioned degrad­and opportunity, sharecropping,back memories of Alan Bakke, positions on both sides. other such group can still legally ation. Too few people these days and forced blacks into another form quota systems, equal opportunity, I think we should define affirm-discriminate). Blacks and women recognize the overwhelming shame of slavery in which they wereand fairness in hiring, which were ative action, and decide what it are by nature· the most prominent and blight that slavery was. There · bound to the owner of the plan­much discussed and ·argued over should achieve. Itis hard to develop discriminatory examples, as they is a tendency to treat it as an tation forever. Blacks also werethree years ago. But there hasn't a clear and logical argument on this have been discriminated against unfortunate chapter of history, brutalized, treated worse thanbeen much mention of it lately. I'm subject, as your position largely the most, and when people think of "but it happened a long time ago, animals in some cases (societyexpecting, however, that it once depends upon which side of the affirmative action, they think of and I didn't have any slaves, so would not condone the live burning again will become a prominent issue fence you are on, and whether or these two groups. So it is for these why hold me responsible?" While and mutilation of dogs), but thousands of blacks were lynched without so much as a word from the authorities. 
3. 
Blacks and women are trad­itionally the last hired and the first fired, and until the advent of the labor movement had almost no job security. To this day, there are recorded instances of biacks and women receiving less pay for equal work, and of being passed over for deserved raises and promotions. 

4. 
Blacks and women have been willfully and wantonly excluded and discriminated against, with government and public sanction. 


I could go on and on, but there is neither space nor need. These examples should suffice to show the unfair positions that blacks an 
other minorities have been place in to the advantage, conscious o unconscious, ofothers. The govern­ment as an institution discriminate against certain groups, and it is u to the government as an institutio to make restitution for those slights. It becomes bigger than a personal case by case issue, and it is unfor­tunate for those caught in middle, but it is an inheritance fro their ancestors, just as many their built-in advantages are. would be nice to be able to forge history and say everything was
Doonesbury Garry Trudeau going to be fair and square fro 

here on in, but that does not d much for those who are sufferin
/AtJ!cS ANO 6&Nrt.&­
the repercussions of history. Tha
MeN. I GIVe YOU 
is why affirmative action exists,


and why it must remain. Ifwhite
Ylt' STIIT5MANSHIP. I Gl¥& YOtllHcHON­
are going to subconsciously accep 
the benefits of the years of su
OMBI.E Ht:#R.Y A. 
KISSIM7f3R ! 
jugation and abuse of minorities, they must also accept the relativel 
llu=:n./ 
minor penalties that may arise fro time to time because of the past. Ronald Reagan, in his acceptanc speech at the Republican conven­tion, said that "we must mo\q forward, but no one should be le behind." Ifhe intends to honor this statement, then affirniative actio and other civil rights programs must remain. 
Editorial Board and Department Managers 
Editor-in-Chief .......... Paul Mullaney Sports Editor ............ Beth Huffman 


Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 Managing Editor ............. Mark Rust Features Editor ........... Molly Woulfe 
The Observer is an independent newspaper published by the students of the Editorials Editor ......... Mike Onufrak Photo Editor ......... ····· .John Macor University of Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's Collese. It does not necessarily 
Senior Copy Editor . ........ Lynne Daley 
Business Manager ......... Greg Hedges
reflect the policies of the administration of either instirunon. The news is reported 
Executive News Editor .... TomJackm'an 
Controller................... .Jim Rudd / News Editor .............. Pam Degnan 
as accurately and as objectively as possible. Editorials represent the opinion of a 
majority of the Editorial Board. Commemaries, opinions, and letters are the views Advertising Manager . ......... Mark Ellis of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community, and SMC Executive EditrJr .... Margie Brassil Circulation Manager....... Beth Hackett the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged. SMC News Editor . ........ Marv Leavirt Production Mana~;er ..... .John McGrath 
Features Tuesday, November 18, 1980-page 7  
rrAlle5MINE EH:mbeth Christman Editor's Note: Elizabeth Christman, "What? This old thing?'" down in the Nllmber 1 seats. He up their "vitas", adding new hon­associate professor of American Studies at Modesty about personal triumph, points out how embarrassing it may ors, heightening the adjectives so as Notre Dame, will he a regular Features success, beauty,"brains, or wealth is be, when you have appropriated the to make thenselves sound even more columnist. Her column ·will appear every considered the only graceful way to No. 1 place, if . someone more brilliant and industrious. Did anyone other Tuesday. deal with compliments. You don't important appears, and the host asks ever hear of a modest resume? The call attention to your good grades, you, in front of everybody, to move very term is an oxymoron. (Noticeyour family's boat, your Lake Forest down, Sit down in the lowest place, that I use that word to show how mansion, or your four invitations to ] esus advises them, and then you clever I am. I could have said Senior Formal. If somebody men­may have the satisfaction of being ''contradiction.'') "Aw, Shucks, it's nothing." tions one of these thin~s, you play it told, "Move up hi~her." No, our education does not teachdown. If you beat a fnend at tennis As in many Btble stories, the modesty. Humility is almost a dirtyyou don't gloat. More likely you moral here is a little ambiguous. It word. Yet modest behavior is attrac­The player interviewed on televi­shrug it off: "I was just lucky." seems that a prudent rather than a tive. And by imitating the virtu~ we sion about his spectacular touch­But what happens to this charm­spiritual motive is bein~ urged: be may take a step toward achieving it. down or his impossible interce~tion ing virtue of modesty when a whole modest so that you won t look silly. For a start, imagine this scene:nearly always denies that it s a community has a success? We brag Still, wordly as it is, it's not bad Football player leaps into the air andpersonal triumph. The credit, he and gloat and trumpet our trium(>h advice, as we can ruefully acknow­holds onto a thirty-yard pass. In themsists, belongs to every member of in a way that would be revolting 10 ledge when we plummet from No. 1. end zone, too. The stands explode.the team, including-the one in an individual. We're Number 1! We Real modesty, as distinct from the But the player doesn't flaunt the ball traction in the hospttal. Maybe he paint it on banners and print it on pretence of it, is hard to achieve. aloft triumphantly. Nor do his team­doesn't mean it, but we find it very bumper stickers and push it in the Few of us have it, probably because mates jump on his back or pound his attractive of him to speak so mo­faces of our opponents. We're filthy it's a virtue that is not encouraged hands. They just nod quietly; and hedestly. with pride. We boast that not only by our me-first culture. From chdd­shrugs and tosses the ball to theThe actor getting a statue on are we Number 1 but that God hood we are taught to be sure that referee as if to say, "Shucks, it'sOscar Night men'tions a dozen peo­Himself wills it! 'our talents are noticed. Our parents nothing. " Wouldn't that be a classyple who helped him in the movie, The Greeks called it hubris, and in ask us to sing, or J>lay the piano, or scene? Do I hear screams of out­and tells us with tears running down Greek mythology this hubris, or otherwise show off to our relatives. rage?his face that he'd never have won it excessive pride, was the downfall of They show our clippings. They brag if it hadn't been for them. The heroes. Gods were jealous and would about us to the neighbors. I'll go farther. Imagine a bumper sticker: NOTRE DAME--NOT BAD.astronaut returning from the moon destroy a mortal who dared to Students, when they apply to It would be nice if we could mean it.mentions all the other astronauts proclatm his feats. colleges, write ''personal state­But even if we don't mean it, weand all the scientists who contribut­In the New Testament Jesus ments" in which they describe their migh~ thus placate the gods for oured to his feat. The lady compliment­observes that a group of Phansees, splendid characters and achieve­hubns.on her dress says disarmingly, invited to a dinner, immediately sit ments. Professors constantly polish  
Preventing OJild Abuse; CANCO Week at SMC Editor's note: Saint Mary's recently selected living situation and the inability of an without removing the child from the counseling, psychological and CANCO to be the College's charity for tbe adult to deal.with that stress. Although home. developmental testing, therapeutic '80-'81 school year. • the problem of abuse transcends all The founders of CAN CO established play groups, and emergency child care. socio-economic boundaries, low self­four on-going tasks for the organization: For adults, CANCO offers counseling A young boy died as the result of esteem, isolation, and an inability to 1. Identify the needs of the com­(individual, marital, and family), child abuse in 197 3 -just one year "reach out" to children comprise the munity in providing child protection. diagnostic services, parenting classes, before Congress enacted the Child universal tendencies for abuse. 2. Plan a comprehensive program and a Parent Aide programAbuse Prevention and Treatment Act. Since parenting skills are learned, it to meet those needs. In addition to offering treatment, The boy and his family had been is not surprising to find that frequently 3. Cooordinate community CANCO aims at prevention. A known to a number of community abusive parents were abused as children. services and agencies to better Speakers Bureau and quarterlyagencies and organizations. Tragedy of And most abusive parents are not utilize existing resources. newsletter keep the communitythis sort always invokes community mentally ill. 4. Implement new and innovative informed of problems, and new feelings-usually hostility and anger Child abuse is a familial problem, programs. developments in the area of child directed at the perpetrator ofthe abuse. and as such the family as a unit must be CANCO now offers a variety of abuse. The Welcome Baby program But this time, something positive counseled. Dispelling extreme cases, programs and services for both victims helps new parents develop realistic also happened Interested people, both child abuse can be successfully treated and perpetrators ofabuse and neglect. expectations of themselves and their professionals and lay persons, began by emotionally supporting the family Programs for children include newborn. Hundreds of St. Josephmeeting together in order to plan a County residents have aided CANCO comprehensive child protection by volunteering their time, energy,program From these meetings, CANCO and talents, and money. This help is (Child Abuse and Neglect Coordinating needed now more than ever. Abuse) was established for the preven­Indiana Public Law 13.5, which tion and treatment of child abuse and became effectiveJanuary 1, 1979,neglect. mandated the reporting of suspectedResponsible community intervention child abuse and neglect. Last year, the an understanding of the County Department ofPublic Welfare which is extremely complex. took action on 634 cases ofabuse and tions of child abuse vary from neglect involving some 1,021 children, to state. Indiana law defines abuse an increase of 141 percent over the any physical injury inflicted other previous year. Without communityby accidental means or an injury help, CANCO would not have been deviates from its reported cause. able to provide the variety and volume also recognizes emotional and of needed services. abuse. November 17-24 is CANCO week. involves the failure to pro­Representatives will be soliciting $1 adequate food, clothing, medical donations from Saint Mary's students education, or supervision to the to support their cause. One hundred that the child's physical or mental percent participation is encouragedis endangered. In general, child refers to acts of commission joanne Welch is the executive director of neglect refers to acts of ommis-CANCO. Usually two prerequisites are nee­Joanne Welchfor child abuse-a stressful  

r 
I 
r 
I 
t 
I I 
r 
I I I f I I 
~ 
' 
f ' 

-~--~~=-========================================= 



~c:»cJlC3l~========================T=u=es=d=a=y,=N==ov=.e=m=h=e=r=l=8=,=1=9=80==-;=pa=g=e==8 
~----------­
Campus 
•12:15 
p.m. -biology dept., "circadian organiz­ation," dr. colin s. pittendrigh, hopkins marine station, stanford u., pacific grove, 101 galvin. 

• 
6:30 p.m. -initiation ceremony, alpha phi omega, rooms 113-114 o'shag. 


•7, 9, 11 p.m. -film, "butch cassidy &. the sun­dance kid," engr. aud., sponsor: judo club. 
• 
7 p.m. general program slide/lecture, "ex­perimental science at oxford in the 18th century," dr. gerard 1' e turner, oxford, 221 o'shag. 

• 
7 p.m. lecture, "seminar on abortion,'' lewis hall parlor, sponsor: nd-smc right to life. 

• 
7 p.m. lecture, "resume writing and mail campaigns," by joan mcintosh, farley hall base­ment. 

• 
7 p.m. -·film, "incident at browns ferry,'' room 356 madeleva (saint mary's), sponsor: sure. 


· • 7 p. rn. -meeting, saint mary's german club, mccand­less piano room. 
• 
7:30 p.m. canco meeting, carroll hall smc, film will be shown on child abuse; sponsor: canco ofsmc. 

• 
7:30 p.m. -survey of spanish poetry.-readings in little theatre of smc, sponsor: dept. of modern languages. 

• 
8 p.m. lecture, "marriage: bond or bond­age?" rev. john finnegan, weston school of theology, 122 hayes healy, sponsor: theology dept. &. smc religious studies dept. 

• 
8 p.m. concert, angela d'antuono, soprano, mem. library aud., sponsor: guest artist series. 


Devine speaks 
Dan Devine will speak at 8 lp.m. tonight in the Planner Pit. The session, open to all students, is sponsored by the . Planner Academic Commission. 
I 

Info on festival 
Musically talented s-eniors who would like to perform for Senior Arts Festival should obtain infor­mation at the Student Union Offices, second floor LaFortune. 


Molarity 
Peanuts® 
TODAV IS VETERANS DAV••• 

I Sf.{OOLD' BE WITH 
WH'r' AM I 51TTIN6 HERE 

OL' BILL Ar\.AULDIN
ON AHILL WAITING FOR 

QUAFFIN6 ROOT 6EER5! 
~ARRIET AND ntAT 
ROUND-J.IEADED ID? 
II-II 





The Daily Crossword 
© 1980 by Chicago Tribune·N.Y. News Synd. Inc. All Rights Reserved 
Michael Molinelli 

SORRY, MY ~N, 8UT 
YoU INILL NoT BJ: AL.WW£1? .70 BRING Y~VR HOR'S£ CJV CAI1PlJ5 
W14'&' BILL MAULDIN?!! 
ACROSS 27 -Flow 1 Chanted 29 July 4th 5 Pleman item 
10 Otherwise 33 Skin 14 Fear, ailment in Lyon 35 "The­


.' 

lf5 EA5'( TO FOR6ET HOW SOON WE FOR6ET! 
52 See62A 19 Minnesota 
55 Between city ready and 24 VIew fire 26 Small 
58 Rustle anchor 62 Wlth52A 27 Chaotic 
15 Swarming Cometh" and61D, mess ., Will Rogers 28 Play parts quote 30 Leg joints 
65 Volcano 31 Gain 
In Sicily 32 Examination 66 Concise 33 God of war 67 Estrada 34 Gael 68 Mixa 36 lnterroga· 
salad tives of 69 Golfer Sam surprise 70 Printer's 37 Join 
mark 40 Stimulate 41 Supposed 
DOWN 46 Sailcloth 1 Resorts 48 GWTW 2 African locale 
river 50 Captured 3 Invalid 52 Food 4 Scowled regimen 5 Prohibit 53"-the 6 Under: naut. valley of..." 7 Apteryx 54 Cub scout 8 Peron units 9-judica1a 56 Concerning 
10 Racial 57 Flat-topped 11 Gaunt hill 12 Fill to 59 Scarce 
the brim 60 Dye plant 13 Arabian 61 See62A chieftain 63 Privileges: 18 Polynesian abbr. beverage 64 United 

Wll~ll~l!niH 
TWO DAYS ONLY! 
Mon.-Tues. Nov. 17-18 9 a.m. until 5 p.m. 
Lafortune Student Center Main Lobby Area 
By special arrangement with Gallery lainzberg, Cedar Rapids, Iowa 
The Observer Tuesday, November 18, 1980-page 9 
In Ihttom Ten 
I 

Northwettern garners bow-l bid 
by Rob Simari definitely will be. ._ and Skip Desjardin Cyclamate Bowl-W eisbaadden, West Germany 
Bowl bids are out, and match-ups are set for Memphis State has a legitimate gripe when they most of the major bowl games. With each p·assing say that this isn't really a neutral site for their year, the postseason calendar gets more and more opponent, Air Force St. crowded. It's almost impossible to keep track ofall The Prune Bowl-Cleveland, Ohio of the bowl games these days. Most of them have The New Orleans Saints got a special dis­big TV contracts, some decide the national pensation to appear, and they'll take_on Cincinnati championship, and several are plar.ed in exotic in the first game,of a doubleheader. cities like Memphis, Birmingham, and East The Tidy Bowl-Cleveland, Ohio Rutherford TCU's Horned Frogs and Wisconsin's Badgers 
There are also a number of Bowl games that in the nightcap of the twin bill. don't get a lot of publicity, and it so happens that The Ernie Bushmiller Bowl-Buffalo, New this year they include some Bottom Ten teams. York · 
The Thorn Bowl -Burbank, California Penn v. Columbia. You can't tell the teams apart 
The voters will keep a close eye on this game, as without a score card. Worthless. it pits the two teams in the country with unflawed Here are this week's rankings: records. Northwestern, the Big Ten champions at 1) Northwestern (0-11) 0-11 will be there. The Mildcats turned down an 2) Oregon State (0-9) opportunity to play BYU in a new foreign bowl 3) Colorado (1-9) game in Johannesburg. Northwestern's oppo­4) Vanderbilt (1-8) nents, Oregon State, also turned down a bowl bid 5) Penn (1-8) to make way for this dream contest. The Pac-10 5 1/2) Columbia (1-8) champs had been asked to take on South Carolina 7) Texas-El Paso (1-10) 
in the Cherry Bowl. 8} Texas Christian (1-9) The Anita Bryant Bowl-Key West, Florida 9) Memphis State (1-9) St. Ed's football team members celebrate their 24-14 win over Grace in Colorado, the worst team in the Big Eight, 10) Kansas State (2-8) Su11day afternoon's interhallji11alson Cartier Field. Four turnovers in its own automatically qualified for this one, and they'll Also receiving votes-Duke (2-8), Oklahoma end cost Grace the ball game. (Photo kY john Macor)take on the Commodores of Vanderbilt. State (2-5-1), and the Hall of Fame Bowl-they 
•

The Polyester Bowl-South Fork, Texas want 5-4-2 Kansas to appear. 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
The Miners of UTEP are, without doubt, the Quote ofthe week-Oklahoma head coach Barry worst team in the Southwest. Big Eight runner-up Switzer on booing Sooner fans: "They haven't had Kansas State could be a sleeper. The game much practice. They need to work on it." 1BAHAMAS REUNIONIII I 
t THURSDAY, noveniler 20: 
Raiders edge Seahawks 19-17 t ~~·· 8-12 pm tl J>'-4 regina lounge-smc I
SEATTLE(AP) -Chris Bahr ayes intecepted aJim Zorn pass reception set up a one-yard yard kicked a 28-yard field with 56 and returned it 19 yards to the Oakland touchdown by Mark t ~ t seconds left to climax a rally Oakland 39 with 4:20 left and the van Eeghen with 8:30 left to cut spearheaded by quarterback Jim score 17-16. The Raiders drove the Seattle lead to 1 7-16. 
t WEAR YOUR HATS AND BRING YOUR PICTURES!lll:
Plunkett and give the Oakland to the Seattle ten yard line, and 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
Raiders a 19-1 7 victory over the , Bahr booted his gamewinning Seattle Seahawks in the National field goal. Football League Monday night. On the drive, the gimpy­
The Raiders appeared beaten legged Plunkett had two key This Wednesday and Every Wednesday ... 17-7 early in the final quarter but runs. On a third-and-1 0 siuation managed to come back and post on the Raiders 39, Plunkett . their sixth straight victory, all picked up seven yards but stum­with Plunkett as starting quar­bled and dropped the ball. 
ND/SMC SPECIAL 
terback, and stay in front in the Oakland tackle Art Shell American Conference Western recovered. Division with an 8-3 record. On fourth down and three, 
It was Seattle's fourth straight Plunkett gained four yards on a , defeat and left the Seahawks, keeper to continue the drive. now 0-6 in the Kingdome, with a The big play of the march was 4-7 overall record and in last an 18-yard completion from Pitcher of Beer $2.00 place in the division. Plunkett to Derrick Ramsey, the 
Oakland cornerback Lester backup tight end. His 58-yard 
Pitcher ,of Pop $.75 
with purchase of a large pizza . 
. . . Fans 

thing about the whole weekend 
(continuedjrtJRI page 11) 
was that we won. For that I'm elected to sit on the ball for the !Hateful. It would have been a last two and a half quarters, and long ride home otherwise. despite one time-consuming It's the job of any reporter to drive, generally failed to move second guess. We wouldn't be the ball in the second half. very busy otherwise. But I'm Luckily, a lack of execution on going to put that aside, for now, 
PIZZA KING 
the part of the Alabama offense because I think I've come up with allowed that one touchdown lead a word to describe the weekend I, 
NORTH 

to stand up. as a FAN, just spent in Birming­Not to take anything away ham, Ala. Beautiful. 
U.S. 31 North

from the defense, they did a m<J.r­velous job at shutting down the Roseland Tide offense when they had to. ~-----------.... 
Across From 

1 need printing I
But Alabama could have very 
Big "C" Lumber
easily had two touchdowns in that game. 
i in a hurry? I 
An argument could be made ---­
for the fact that Coach Devine 1100 -llxl7 postersldid what he had to under the CarryOut Dial 272·6017 circumstances. He played con­1
I only$10.00
servatively when the situation 1
I •)•
more or less called for it, and also a few times when it didn't. His I ~ 203 N. Mainl OPEN EVERY DAY coaching philosophy seemed to 
be "Here Bear, we're gonna give 1• ·.: South Bend i you the ball. Try to score." As it MON.-THURS. 11 :00 . 12:00 turned out, it worked. But hind­
I 289-6977 I FRI. & SAT. 11:00. 1:00
sight is always twenty-twenty vision. Foresight tells rne that SUN. 4:30-11:00
I thewiz of the I
may not work again. I guess the most important 
r Pizza Parties

LP!!!'.!!!'-9-~~--~ 



·~ _-~--.l ',...: . ..,:,....;. 'fill!'l'\o ~"'Jo-.'10!.;_·~.;-_............t..~:.=-.:..,,:­
The Observer Tuesday, November 18, 1980-page 10 

.. 

Irish Defense spells defeat for 
'lltnn 

Photos by Phil! Johnson 


.. 

l 
~j)()f1tScjEJ~~~i=~~~======~=================T=ue=s=da=y='=N=o=ve=m=b=e=r=18='=1=9=80=-==p=a=ge=l~l l 
by The-Ohu•rt't'r .1nd Thf A.rroaiJted Pr,.,,. Saint MaiT, s studentsmay pick up their Notre Dame basketball tickets at the Student Activities Office in LeMans Hall from 8-5 p.m. according to the following schedule: seniors, Monday, Nov. 16; juniors, Tuesday, Nov. 17; sophomores, Wednesday, Nov. 18; and freshmen, Thursday, Nov. 19. Students must present an ID for each ticket and there is a limit of four IDs. Men's basketball captains for both A and B interhall divisions are required to attend !1. meeting Tuesday, Nov. 18 at 4:30p.m. in the ACC Auditorium. Armv ticket refunds for Notre Dame (JI St. Mary's s"fudents who ordered an individual game ticket for the October 18 game and did not pick up that ticket an available in the form of cash refunds during the hours of 9-5  • • • Faai  
(-::ontinued from page 12) fault them for being nervous in a time they took advantage oftheir game of this magnitude. good fortune to score what entered the field for the pre­The Irish got the first break of would turn out to be the game's game warmups, the rain sub­the game, but a fumble down only touchdown. sided, and was not to return until close to the Barna goal line kept The pressure was on the de­after the stadium had cleared. them from getting on the board. fense from here on out. It didn't Perhaps the stories about"Bear'' Two plays later, a Crimson Tide have to be, but it was. The Irish Bryant are true. Maybe he can fumble gave the ball right back to (continued on page 9)control the weather. theNotre Dame offense, and this The fans were as ready, if not more so, for The Showdown in Birmingham, (another billing title) as the players were. They . NCAA's• •had built themselves into such a  
p.m. Monday through Friday at the!Gate 10 Box Offict Window. Students may pick up their refund during the month of November. The la§t day refunds will be issued will bt Wednesday, November 26 (the day before Thanksgiving break). Presentation of your student ID cards is required to obtain the cash refund.  frenzy that by the time the two could have finished as high asteams entered the stadium at (continued from page 12) seventh in the team field," ex­2:45, the decible level had gone sprained ankle. At that late stage plained Piane. In cross country,beyond measurement. It W'\S to in the race Caron was running the lowest score wins.get louder. "We did accomplish a fewNeither team really attempted right behind Aragon and prob­things, though," he added. "Forto show much in the first quarter. ably would have finished close to  
Interhall refereesfor basketball should plan on attending a clinic either Wednesday or Thursday from 4:30 to 5:30p.m. Referees should enter at Gate 1 of the ACC and meet in the interhall office.  example we finally beat BowlingInstead, they acted like fighters the senior Irish star. According in the first round of a heavy­to Piane, this hurt the Irish Green who had waxed us three weight championship bout, try­ceam's placemeht. times already this year. We beat a few other teams too, plus ouring to feel each other out. In fact, "If Ralph had finished right younger guys ran well and gained both teams . looked a little behindAragonin45th, we would some valuable experience." tentative. But then no one could have about 35 less points. We '  
AI! .·!.tS'>•f•t•~1 .uh r, .~~1 tw 'f'l"et\lt:~~ llv .:l 45 p •'1 •wo ,1Jv:i pr·c ·u lhr• ''~'''' .n Wtln I• Tt•t• .Lit'> lull Thtt Obser\l'er ~ltltce •\•II -1Ctt1pl ,·•,tt.ot.•'IV•1•, \1nno,,., lhrOHUh F• .. ra-.. 1(') 00.1,. ·u 4 45 p m •\II cla~-s.tftelh ·n. 1 ~1 ht>·•Classifieds !lff.'·p,ll(l PtfhP.r II\ l·t.•rc;oll ''' lhrtlu~·, 'hfl mdd  
LOST-A PAll! OF GLASSES (GREY Need All! FORCE Hx. Student or NEEDED: GA orstudent tickets for Air TodaY• mooae joke: Where do fhev FRAME) WITH NAME AND HOME GA. Call Tom 1020. Force. Call Tom at 1652. put mammoth bone• found In the~TICES PERSONALSPHONE NUMBER ENGRAVED ON Yukon? A: Ina mooseum. CredllthllHelplll NMCI ride to WASHINGTON, I am In dire need of ontv -ONE ­RIGHT TEMPlE PIECE. IF FOUND D.C., and back for Thanksgiving. one to Shirley and Ryan.USC Hekel. Please help me aut. CallND/SMC PHOTOGRAPHERS: I need PLEASE CALl KEVIN AT 1022 or CaH Tom 1020. 1 need someone fo train wtth tor1213, aak for And,... Trick or IIREWEIIS (I.e. the gll}'l whocamera Hme • do you need a 2253 -I NEED THEM BADLY. spring marathon. 7·7:30 per mite. model? can 73-U. NEED RIDE TO MPS./ST. PAUL FOR hove been looklng at the girls atFor sale Student lalketball and Coli Shannon 6153LOST: Blue backpack outside of THANKSGIVING SHARE THE USUAL 3451adln, "per:lalty J.P.) HaveyouHockey Tlckell. CaR 3320. TYPING! FAST, ACCURATE TYPING Dillon on Halloween night II found To my roommate, AnneVINCE 14666 guy~ been doing 'lhrooml? AT REASONAIIU! RATES. Hyou need pleaM call Jean at ~1. Reword. HELPIII I NEED FOUR GA'S 01! TWO HAVE A HAPPY 18th IIIRTHDAYIII -The Ratpack 10methlng In a hull'(, I can type H RIDE NEEDED TO INDY FOR THANK5­PAIRS OF GA'S FOR AIR FOIICE. CAI.L Love,LOST ­a pair of women's glallelfor you. No job too big or too smaU. GMNG BREAK. CAN LEAVE TUESDAY. Kathy BAHAMAS REUNION...THURSDAY, NOV two wMkl ago. Brown, wHh sun-lint ~­CION to camput. CaH Lynn Saylor FRANCIE 218-8738. 20. 1-12 pm regina loung••mc. -mHive len18S. If found, please DEAl! DOUBLE-D:233·3-1123, anytime. Save o llfel BINI mewtfh 4 Air Force food a drlnldll call 277-8037 or 1715 and alk for Need ride to Phllly area for T.G. Will GA's($$$)1 Greg 275410 PM or later You lelf one of your shoes In my OVERSEAS JOBS • Summer/year "Then one by one the SMC chlcklleth.l!eward. lhare usuaL Maureen 4777. room on the night of the party, and round. Europe, S. Amer., Aulfralla, FOR SALE 2 USC TIX CALL SEAN AT I'm holding II for ransom. You wander off to hidden lolls where Needed: 2·3 rides to Pill. for T.G. Alia. Alllleld1. $500-$1200 monthly. 31a4 remember what II coltCinderella? they serve the lust• of Dillon lrelh·Break. Call 4274 (SMC) ·------------SlghlsHing. Free Info. Write: IJC, men." llut don't tell the I!.A.NEED All! FOIICE TIX. CAI.L TOM Proleulonal typing. Term papers,lox 52-IN4, Corona Del Mar, Ca. Wanted: Drummer and electric ·l!oHing N.E.C.K.BETWEEN 6 AND a, 23-11·5 7&2 manuacrlpts, thelll. Error lree. $292625. gullarlllllo complete musical groupApt. lor rent.$50.00 month. Near page. Barron Servlc81, 1408 Elwood, BEWARE OF THE "IQU,EI! IEGO"IIITLLplaying anything from AI Stewart to RESCUE MEl I need two Air Force UGLY DUCKLING I!ENT·A-CAI! achool. lmmedlale.233-1329 2a9-7949. GET YOU WHENEVER YOU LEASTRickie Lee Jones for fun. Call Dan at nckelll Please Call 289-a955 -----­___,.____THANKSGIVING SPECIAL. 4 days, EXPECT tnt Wish to aublel 4 person NO apt. tor 8340 or Marcy at 2169. L""'"n:$39.95 with 200 lrH mil... Phone Please, 1 need 2 GA llx for Air Force aecond ..melfer. $90 each/month Happy Birthday ond we love you. THE MEN OF SOI!IN 315 WISH TO 255-2323 lor reservallons. DESPERATELY need ride to Phlla· game call Mary 41-4715 plus lhore uHIIItes. Secure; 10 minute K.C. and the Rainbow Quad THANK ALL THE DANCING, LOVELY,delphia for Thanksgiving. Can leave Instant cash paid lor ladles' and walk to campus. Call 233·2631 HELPIIII need USC TIX. Call Sue 7a61. PARTYING PEOPLE WHO MADE LASTanytime after game. Call Korlo 41· Ryan Sure Hurlmost, men's clau rlng1. $20-$100 or SATURDAY NIGHTSCELEBRATION THE4427 Are you Into S a M?Need one girl to share NO apt. lor Make 2 little klds happy. Donate 2 more. We make house calls. Allo -------­-----­BEST. WATCH FOR DETAILS OF AN aecond sem. $90 month. Call 23-11­Air Force llckels to Volunteerbuying other gold Items. 255-2402. Need a ride to Dayton for Thankl· BOSTON CLUB II havinga XMAS BUS. ENCORE PERFORMANCE. OUZO 0233. Services, LaFortune Center. Drop offgiving. can leave Tu... or Wed. ­Details In a lew days. FOREVER! PART nME JOB. Ideal lor Students. please call Beth at 277-a037 or 283­anytime. FOR RENT. Basement of house veryTelephone work lrom our office ---------­SUMMER PROGRAMS LONDON-ROME JEFf SCHLIESMAN:1715. NEED MANY GA AND STUDENT TIXS(Evening houri) Call Nancy 232­ciOie to campus. Very comfortable! MAY·JUNE 19a1 College Credits Where were you Frtdoy night 71 I Includes lumlshlngs. private bath Need ride to Muskegon Mlch this CALL STEVE 233·5933. Available Meeting In Walsh Halla956 was woltlngll and entry. Located In a nice house weekend. wHI share expenses etc. Lounge 7:00 p.m., November 17Need Air Force llx, student or GA. MAGENTA For Effective l!epretenlallon, VOTE In a sole neighborhood. l!eolonable call Greg at 3-1154 also at 232 Moreau Hall 7:00 p.m.',Please call Ken at 1863.lor KATHLEEN KUCABA, OFF CAMPUS rent. Call 289·8651 alter 6.00. November 1 a SMC SASRIDERS NEEDED TO HAI!I!ISIIURG,SENATOR. NEEDED: Fourteen nCKETS to All! Happv November 52ndl NO Ave. 2 ldrm, fum. apt w/slreel PA. LEAVE MON., NOV. 24 AT APPIIOX. Girl Scout Cookle orders will beFORCE for RELIGIOUS Youth GROUP MJKlnlerltlled In teaming more about NOON· CALL JAMIE AT 1107. taken Tu... and Wed., Nov 1a·19 at 


view 2·4 people reaaonable 23-11· 
call 7443
the llle and million of a Brother, LaFortune lrom 1-4:30. Support a Ski Club ofIndiana University Invites 
0821 Sister or Prleet? Come to a dllcuuton Need 2 Air Force llckell for family; good cause. Eat a great cooklel SMC, HC a NO to Join club. Over 
and tum In lhe Farley lounge HOUSE FOR RENT. cklan.comfortable. lfuc:tenl or GA. Call 6UO. 1,000 national a regional resort
[ FOR SALO 

SOPHOMOIIESCOME TO AN EVENINGThursday, Nov. 20, at 9:30 p.m., or 3 bedrooms.2 baths, near campus dllcounll, weekend trips toNorthernWITH "ET Al."l EASY LISTENING, FOOD,PLEASEIIIII need Air Force tickets. Six
289·3661 together or sell ofthree. PlEASE call 
talk to the Indiana Campus Michigan, WHktv club skiing Friday
AND FUN IN LAFOIITUNE BALLROOM,l'wo Searsa.25-14 snow Hrtn. Call IIIII
Ren-al Team In the Ioyer of the nlghll. rental packages, teasons.
4 bdrm house for rent, lmmed. 8:00PM ON WEDNESDAY, NOV. 19.
Mark Rust 233-5520 or 1715 andlbral'( on either Wednetdav evening 1154 MHIIng Nov. 21 at IUSII, Northsideoccupancy, clo1e to campu1, $1.25 OCKm AVAilABlE FROM SOPH.
leave a menage. partially furn., good condition. CaH 1 United llckel, SIN to Ft. Lauc:lerdole
or during the day on the 20th. 
Hon, Room 113, 7 p.m. Call David at Need one G.A. and one Student Air 259-1378. Deadline to join 11 Nov.
Girl Seoul Cookie orders will be 217-5361 after 7 p.m. vlo Chicago lor X-mas break. $130 ATTENTION ASSASSINS: DON'T FORGET taken Tu.._ and Wed., Nov. 18·19 at Force Tlx PlEASE. CaH Nancy 5771 TO REPORT YOUR HITS TO GOO 28. LaFortune lrom 1·4:30. Support a SMC. WITHIN U HOURSt HE IS USUALLY FREE
WANTED j Plea... Plea... PlEASEI Desperate
c;:at='61=13=.======~ 

good cause. Eat a great cooklef BETWEEN 11·12 PM. 
HELPI NEED All! FORCE TIX CAlL PAUL girl In search of Air Force tickets. 
Can you help me? PlEASE caH NEED IIIOE TO STLOUIS lhll ThUll, Fri. 
ST. LOUIS RIDE LINE: Call 3-1179 lor 3281
I 
TlcKETS 

Maureen at 1467a. Thanks. or Sal, Nov 14, 111, or 17 Will share --------· ----· paulble arrangemenll. Happy Legal Age, Tom Nobrega!
need student or GA Air Force !letter late than forgotten ­

LESLIE. Thank you much • we were
ST. LOUIS CLUII TAILGATE!!: Sal, Nov expen.... Callllob 1066 AlrForceGAsandStudentsneedect tlckell: call Jane 6614 or 77o.t 
Tina and John JAMMING. II we don't get 50/50 IICall 6251 or 1().(0

22 on GrHn field In Iron! of Sr. Bar. 
uac llckell for sale. 2 together. bell
Need ride to Maasachu..fls or was rigged. Sorrv con that 1don'tLook for sign on backltop. 1 call NEED 4 AIR FOIICE TICKETS. WILL PAY offer. bab 1739 Dear daughter of a.. I am taking
Connecticut area for Thanksgiving whllper louder . Can't wall Ill flno'f
3-1179 
break. Plea..call Mike, 11780. TOP DOLLAR. CALL JOHN 1629. Need 2 GA Air Force Tlx. Together If Moxl to pollee dog school to teach LTflngert. Will do typing, reaaonable rat... him to fend offyour heinousattacks.
NEED MANY STUDENT TIX FOR All! Polllble. Pleale Call Jennifer at
NEED RIDE TO-FRO KANSAS CITY N..-:1 ride to Hartford, Connecticut
The aqulshercan 287-&162. 

FOIICE -BITZ, 233·2165. 277-8760.
AREA FOR THANKSGIVING BREAK. for Thanksgiving. Would like to leave SHARE USUAl.. CALL PAT AT 1592. What do they putonYukonburgera7 Tueldav; wtll share driving ond
Need Air Force GA nckels PAY MUCH $$ Call 2&3·8609 1need 2 student tickets to Air Force. 
A: Catsup and Moo..tard. -o expen..s. Call Marvbeth at 277· 
WANTED DESPERATELYII TWO All!
!LOST/FOUND] 
Shirley and Ryan production 203a.
CaU 1284
FOIICE G.A. OI!STUOENTTICKETSII Will 
NEED 2 All! FORCE GAl CAI.L JIM Ill> pay big bucklll Call 232.,.257 JOfl WHh coach" like Sleeping Beauty,
I nominate Barb Biehl for Min LOST IN LAFORTUNE LOllY on 11/5, 
a711 DESPERATE NEED OF AIR FORCE nx. 
Yukon 19ao. low and kl11e1 Ryan Glmp, and NH•• can Fartev beat
PLEASE HELP. CALL EILEEN AT 8o.t2.
plano text and manna envelope. Original comectv material needed Desperately need many All! FORCE Ver Berkmooae I.P.? If seeing II believing, the..
WHhout envelope I won't graduate. 
for stand-up nightclub act. Contact 
nx • G.A. or STUOENT.WIII pay TOP Need 2 GA' a to Air Force call Don guya will make you wonder about1'\.EASEI Call lob233-239a. REWARD. Lori'( Karau-lld at WNDU-TV 233-DORM REPs. PROCEEDS GO TO Fll. 
DOLLAR. Call KARL at 1579. 1530 your eyesight.7111 or home 291-2773. 
TOOHEY MEMORIAL FUND. LOST IN NORTH DINING HALL • Blue 
Plealel I need Air Force Tickets. Six Need 2 GAl for Air Force. Mike 234-Jeffrey, Thankl again lor helping
backpack with French lexll. Plea.. EAP,
NMCI 10meone to do calor allde together or three sell of two. Call 63111 me blow off Friday night, you blow
call lob 23J.239a. REWARD. Sun, flowe11 and your face wtll printing for me. Must be able to Mark Rust at 1715 or 233·5520 and off. Now I know how Zelda fHII 0(1
forever lasclnofe me. FOUND: Calla calculator tell by print up to I" by 10." Prices leave a menage. WANTED -All! FORCE GA'S a second floor. Where were you at 3
Love youhitchhiker. Call lob 232-0735. I"MIQOIIabte. Call John al3106. STUOENTS...CAI.L PAUL 8916 MTl a.m. when I finished my papet? Call
Need All! FOI!CEStudenlandG.A. 
me next Hme when you want IaRide neec:lectlo Cincinnati area lor nx • PlEASE Call Marv Pat at 8091 NEED 2 All! FORCE STUDENT OR GA 
FOUND a gtrrs while coal In nx -CALL TONY 4613 Do vou know what Mardi Gras tlx con..rve .energvl Space and JJ the 
break. Call Mark at320l'< Pangborn social space alter par1y 
Mega need for 3 Air Force tickets. are? Do you have you11 yet? II not, !lear DESPERATE! Need ride to Milwaukee GA or lfudenl. Call 81111154 contact your MICtion leader. If so,
on Nov. 7. Call 8410 to claim. EMIL$ WOI8U! BUT THEY DON'T FAI.L tor Thnnksglvlng. Plea ..call Nancv 
1811 those dom llckell nowt 
DOWNII II at 7850. 

Tuesday, November 18, 1980 -page 12
SROrts 
&>uthem hospitality 
Tide fans -welcotne Yankees 
By Mark Hannuksela Sports Writer 
There may not be just one word that would adequately describe the weekend I just spent in Birmingham. Maybe by the end of this piece, I'll come up with one. 
I don't have any juicy insults to throw at the city ofBirmingham, or at the residents of Alabama. Downtown Birmingham seems to be in a state ofrapid growth, as evidenced by the fact that the hotel that the Notre Dame club of Birmingham used as their headquarters was just recently opened. The University of Alabama at Birmingham was located right in the downtown area, surrounded by buildings of a very modern design. The cam­pus itself was composed mostly of buildings that had been recent­ly built. 
No complaints against the fans either. The people in Birmingham, and in the state of Alabama on a whole, were very receptive to those Irish fans who made the long trip down South. Sure, 
there were a few ofthe obligatory 
"We're gonna beat y'all" and 
"Notre who" comments to be 
heard, but most were meant in 
good fun, and the r~ception we 
received on the whole was 
generally warm. 

There was no mistaking the electricity in the air, however. From southern Kentucky down to Birmingham and beyond, there was only one thing on the minds and lips of Northerners and Southerners alike, and that was THE GAME. Every hour, we were reminded of Saturday's game, a game which many were billing as the game ofthe year. At _ every stop we were asked the same question-"Y'all come down to see the game?" If one weren't aware of it before hand, it wouldn't take long to come to the understanding that this WAS a very important game. 
Over 1000 alumni and stu­dents attended Friday night's pre-game-pep rally, sponsered by the NO club of Birmingham. Irish head coach Dan Devil.UI was the featured speaker, and told the crowd that they hadn't 

Steelers back in picture thanks to Brou.ms' errors 
BEREA, Ohio(AP)-Much ado has been made of the final11 seconds in the Pittsburgh Steelers' 16-13 triumph over the stubborn Cleveland Browns. 
The game Sunday in Pitts­burgh was decided in those climactic seconds when Terry Bradshaw tossed three-yard touchdown pass to Lynn Swann. 
Cleveland Coach Sam Rutigliano knows his team had chances prior to the Pittsburgh touchdown to gain their first­ever victory. in Three Rivers Stadium. 
"Our defense played a great game, but you saw Pittsburgh at their best," the coach said. ' Some people might say that we should have won the game, but I don't believe that because we had opportunities to take that final 11 seconds right out of the game." 
The Browns missed an extra point attempt after their second touchdown, missed three field goal attempts and blew a chance to run for a first down in a crucial second quarter third-and-one situation because of abackfield 

TheAP Top Twenty 
1. Georgia (55)  10-0  1.306  
2. Notre Dome (4)  8-0-1  1.188  
3. Florida St. (3)  9-1  1,175  
4. Nebraska (4)  9-1  1,173  
5. Ohio State  9-1  1,012  
6. Pittsburgh  9-1  973  
7. Penn St.  9-1  896.  
8.Aioboma  8-2  735  
9.0klohoma  7-2  719  
10. Michigan  8-2  6')5  
11.Boylor  9-1  682  
12. u.s.c.  7-1-1  650  
13. Brigham Young  9-1  469  
14.5outh Carolina  8-2  452  
15. North Carolina  9-1  436  
16. Washington  8-2  347  
17. Mississippi St.  8-2  346  
18.UCLA  7-2  239  
19.Fiorido  7-2  141  
20. Texas  7-2  124  

mixup. 
"All we had to do is kick an extra point and the strategy is dramatically changed at the end ofthe game," the coach said. "All we had to do was kick one of the field goals. 
"But I try to eliminate yes­terday and tomorrow and just deal with today. If you do that you can avoid 66 percent ofyour problems." 
Still, despite the missed op­portunities, the Browns had a chance to hold on for a key American Football Conference victory had they stopped Pitts­burgh in the final moments of the game. 
Rutigliano reviewed game films with his staff Monday, then took time at his weekly news conference to explain key plays made iri the game. 
Cleveland had the ball deep in their own terr_itory with less than two minutes to play and could have opted to use three running plays before punting to use up time. An incomplete pass thrown by Brian Sipe left enough on the clock to allow the Steelers to mount a winning drive. 
"We felt at that point that it was best to try to throw the ball for a first down because it would have virtually won the game for us," he said. ' 
On the Steelers' final play, the winning pass from Bradshaw to Swann, some illegal activity oc­curred, he said. 
The coach said Pittsburgh re­ceiver Theo Bell set a basketball­style pick on defensive back Ron Bolton, allowing Swann to break open at the sideline of the end zone. Such picks are illegal, according to the National Foot­ball League rules. 
"It's incidental, but it was a pick without question, and it's documented on film. It's a play everybody in football has been doing for 1 00 years inside the ten yard line," Rutigliano said. 

wasted a trip, because the Irish were there to win. The partying continued long past the time that the Irish coach left, but there w~s a bit of anxiety among all the Notre Dame fans in atten­dance -they were in a hurry to see their coach proven right. 
They got their chance on Saturday. 
The day dawned with rain in the forecast, arid indeed it sprinkled off and on until about game time. But as the teams 
(continued on page 11) 

Harriers falter in l'JCAA's 
by Matt Huffman Sports Wrtter 

The Notre Dame cross coun­try team finished a disappointing 13th (out of nineteen teams) in the NCAA Distrist IV Cham­pionships this past Saturday at Champaign, Illinois. 
"We ran fair, but we were disappointed," commented head coach Joe Piane. "We expected to do better as far as placement." 
The strong field was led by team titlist Indiana, followed by runnerup Michigan and third place Illinois. These same three teams finished in identical order at the Notre Dame Invitational earlier this fall. 

Co-captain Chuck Aragon was Freshman Ralph Caron must the top finisher for Notre Dame have been wondering where the with a 44th place time of31:32 in luck of the Irish was Saturday. At the 126-man field. The next Irish the 7000-meter mark, Caron, runner was senior co-captain running in heavy traffic, was el­
John Filosa in the 47th spot with bowed as he rounded a curve and 
a time of 31: 38 followed by Carl went down with a severely 
Bicicchi (31:54), John Rielly 

(continued on page 11
{32:04), andAndyDillon(32:23). 

73est team wan' 
Fighting Irish too strong for Alabama 
BIRMINGHAM-Boy, Grantland Rice •••••••••••• could've had a field day with this one-maybe. 
"Buried beneath a Green-Gold Irish wave, the-Crimson 
Frank 

Trde washed away-again." 
But what do you say next? Midway through the second halfofSaturday's game, I suddenly realized 
LaGrotta 
how difficult it would be towriteabouta 7-0 game............... 

Let's face it, even Dan Devine admitted that, while it was a great football game, it may not have featured all the excitement ofa32-31 barnburner. 
Ah, but think of the possibilities if Alabama's, Peter Kim, had made his third quarter field goal attempt A 7-3 final! Notre Dame wins by­
you've got to be kidding-four points! 
Thankfully, however, whoever is in charge of these things knew how improbable that would be so they graciously made sure the ball sailed a bit wide of the upright. No field goal, no three points ... 
No story. 
Not quite. 
There is a story that lies somewhere in the dust that was raised fr~m the patchwork turf ofLegion Field. It's not that hard to find, either-just a little bit difficult to get started on. Because, like the foe' ryall game that preceeded it, one small mistake could blow the whole thing. 
I th~nk the story begins, not at the 1973 Sugar Bowl or the Orange Bowl in 1974, but sometime lastAugust when a coach named Dan and a bear named Bryant decided that everything everyone was saying about their 1980 football teams was all wrong. 
Dan knew he'd have a much better squad than the "experts" were predicting, but he didn't tell anybody. Likewjse, Bryant realized that his players could not possibly live up to the lofty expectations the same people were dumping flat on their shoulder pads. But he didn't tell anybody, either. Dan wondered how long it would take his team to prove itsel£ Bryant, on the other hand, tried to figure out when his squad would fall flat on its face. 
For both men, the answer came last Saturday. And neither coach was surprised. 
"It is an understatement to say that the best team won," growled the Bear, who then admitted what he's probably known for a long, long time. 
"We are just not used to playing against a team that strong." 
Thanks Bear, we'd have never figured that out if you hadn't told us. Looks like y'all have fallen into the "Pitt" of trying to look like national cham­pions against the weakest schedule you can sneak by with. Of course, sometimes it catches up with you, doesn't it? 
In  the  other  lockerroom,  Dan  was  telling  
reporters  that he  knew  the Irish  would  beat  
Alabama.  

"I told FatherJoyce on Tuesday that I thought we'd win the game," he smiled. "I knew our kids were ready." 
A bit pompous, perhaps. But it's all right to be pompous-as long as you wait until after the game. 
(Lesson number one, Coach Bryant.) 
So the story of this game is a tale of two teams; One that told everyone how great it was ... 
And one that went out and proved it. 







