~~.---------~~------------~-------------------------------------------------~-----------------------------------­
. , , Musicviews -page 7 
VOL XIV, NO. 90 
an mdependent student newspaper serving notre dame and saint mary's THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 21, 1980 
, 
Carter calls U.S. boycott of Olympics 'irrevocable' 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The In Washington, State Depart­
Carter Administration said ment spokesman Thomas 
yesterday the United States will Reston said the boycott dec­
officially boycott the Moscow ision is "firm and unalterable." 
Olympics this summer and the He said, "It is a position which 
US Olympic Committee officials is shared bv more than 50 
and athletes are expected to governments throughout the 
follow suit. world and which will be re­
White House counsel Uoyd flected, we are convinced, by Cutler made it clear that the the nonparticipation by at least committee, which oversees US that number of national participation in the games, is Olympic teams in Moscow.''' bein~ relied on to abide by The White House said in a President Carter's decision. written statement that, with the 
In Bonn, West Germany, month passed and the Soviet Chief State Department spokes-forces remaining in Afghan­man Hodding Carter istan, "the President has announced the final decision as therefore advised the United the deadline arrived for the States Olympic Committee that Soviet Union to pull its troops his decision remains out of Afghanistan. unchanged, and that we should 
''The United States set a not send a team to Moscow.
Frank Guzlfoyle, Tom Behney, "Uncle Keith" Cooper and]im Slattery were among the 
deadline for its decision on ''The President thanked the
SBPI SBVP candzdates present at the open forum heldlast night in Washington Hall. [photo 
whether to participate, a committee for its earnest and
by Tom jackman] 
decision to be contingent on the patriotic efforts to present the withdraw! of Soviet troops," case for transferring, post­said Carter, accompanying poning, or cancelling the Secretary of State Cyrus R. games, and asked it to take Vance on a tour of European prompt action to formalize its
Small crowd hears candidates 
capitals. acceptance ofhis decision,'' the "Today is the day on which statement said. that decision was going to be Outraged by the Soviet thrust
versity, however the areas they shorten dining hall lines,. to

by ToniAanstoos would improve vary. Riehle reduce fees for broken housing based. It is clear there is no int~ Af~hanistan, Carter seryed
Campaign StaffReporter 

stressed that "the biggest pro­contracts, and to build a securi­sign of a Soviet withdraw!. The nottce m a January 20 nation­blem on campus is lack of ty shack in tht: student parking President has made clear that ally broadcast address that heThe four official candidates for things to do,'' and called for lot. Carey called for improve­our decision is therefore was giving the Soviets 30 daysSwdent Body President de­increased use of proposals for ment in both categories,. with irrevocable. We will not parti­to Withdraw or risk a U.S.
bated the issues and their cipate in the Olympics in boycott of the Olympic Games"competency'· before a very improvement in campus condi­[continued on page 5) Moscow,'' the spokesman said. in Moscow this summer.
small crowd of about 50 in tions, including attempts to Washington Hall last night. The majority of the crowd appeared to consist of members Priorto release of the candidates' own staffs and personal friends, with in­dependent onlookers badly out­


Iran a'iks cotntnission to intervieUJ hostages
numbered. Candidates Paul Riehle, Tom 
Behney, and Bob Carey empha­(AP) -Secretary-General chartered flight at p.m. spokesman Rudolf Stajduhar gators and the hostages. 
sized their plans for University yesterday when they said. · "The hostages under
Kurt Waldheim yesterday de­received must 
improvements, while ''Slatts'' word of the delay. The nature of the "ques­no circumstances be subjected
layed the departure of a special
Slattery leveled charges of out­U.N. investigatory commtssion W aldheim earlier had re­tions" and whether they had to interrogation. It is vital, 
side control of the Umversuy by ceived a message from Iranian been resolved was not dis­however, for the commission to
to Iran until the weekend and 
'·big money institutions and said Iranian authorities want President Abolhassan Bani­closed. But the Carter admini­determine that they are all 
alumni with millions of dol­the commission members to'. Sadr that ~ave formal approval stration signaled its acceptance present and to assess their lars,·' and stated that the 
talk to all of the ~pproximately to the mission but that left of the Iranian demand for a 
[continued on page 8}
student body is "living in 
50 American hostages in Teh-"oeen questions," Waldheim meeting between the investi­
autocracy (at Notre Dame)." 
ran. .
Slattery suggested it would be One of the five commission 
more effective for the students 
members said, meanwhil«,
to work outside of the "auto­there was a "ge,hdemen's a­
,Students support boycott, draft
cracy." 
greement" that· 'trye hostagesThe five minute speeches by would be freed .as·.a result of Caner over the other Democratic presidentialthe candidates were followed by by Ed Me Nti/ly
their mission. The timing of th¢ contenders, while of those who oppose the drafta question and answer session release rema~ned u~clear, howr
which was dominated by ques­[continued on page 8J
ever. · tions from supporters to their Walclheim, spe~king ·to re~· One day' after the expiration of President 
candidates. The questioner's 
·porterS: ~n New ¥~r;k, •said htj Caner'~ deadline for ~he c~mplete withdrawal of favoritism became evident postponed' the dt;p¥-rure.of thp Soviet troops from Afghanistan, students at I 
THE McNALLY POLL 
when thev addressed · ca~di­five lawyers ' an~ ~iplomats' Notre Dame and Saint Mar}'i's College over-,
dates with nicknames. These , 1
since the Iranians had asked for whelmingly support the call for aU.S. boycott of ·1 Do you support the U.S. boycott of thequestions were designed to · "a little more time" to prepare the Summer Olympic Games in Moscow. 
Olympic games in Moscow?
emphasize the r::andidates' as­fot rhe ~nquiry., whi'<;h the U.N. 
In a poll conducted last weekend on both 
YES 68% NO 26%
sets, giving them more 'rime to ell-Lief <tailed a '.',fact-finding 
camp!Jses. 68 percent of the students said they
dabo.rati:: on their views. · · 
mis~ion!' ~ to heM .Iran's grie­
approved of the, boycott by American athletes, 
Do you. s1,1pport Carter's cail for draftCampuS c·ampilgn '80 van~es:11 agains't the ,Umted whereas only 26 percent opposed the action. 
registration?
States ·1 and American grie­YES 67% N028o/o
Questions from tlw few nona-vances ver the ~ostag'e-taking. i In similar result~, better than two o~i of every hgned srudents concerned• su~h 1 The·. and is to investigate three students her-e also batke,d the President's 
Should ·women be included in this draft
issues as, the funding of '.r~e l¢anian · hai;~e~ of tnass murder plan to reinstate draft registration a.nd to. include I ·eg1stration?
hockey team. kegs,·on q:pnJ?us,. a~d eor ppuon ag;;tipst the. de­women in the conscription. 
I -YES 79% NO. 18%and ct>ntralization of th~ vanous : I p sed hah Moh\lmmad Reza 
' Both ~he Olvmpi~ bovcott and the registration
branches of_ St~dent ,Go,v~r~-,I ~ hlavi: and ~omplaints. that plan are inte~cted by" ihe Carter administration 1 Are there ctrcumst:Omces under which you
rnent. Replywg 10 ~areh', audt,-'\ \ h t)m etl ~t~t~s · h~d, Inter-, .. to send a ;strong warning to Moscow, and the Cj)uld support an actual/peace-ume draft?ble cones, th_e c_andi~4tes, q£te~ ~e ed ' 1i_n '., !raman1 .a~alr~ ; by I
results hete indicate that substantial camims YES 53% N044.Wo 
answer~~ wuh p~autud~St and' \. ; su p~i:bmg the:: s~~h s ~ohce. support of, this had •line sta~ce carries' over td l 
J. generalmes. . · ' . I ·. \ hej t;qmm1ss'lon meritbers 1 i ' .
~upport of the President himself: I ~.
The candidates all tetognil!c¢ ·.fN e ~lreidv' ar tpe ai,rpqrt in 
l 
All' figures•. are ;ounaed to rhe nearest the need fo~• _irrlpr?ivemeAtf ~f j,:pe e~1 , ~wi'tzerland; pt~pari.rlg · ..f'or instance, offhOS(i ;yhO sup"ort ~he boy~G~~Cf oqe·halt perce_m. ~ercen~ages not li~ret;i 
current co,ndHtons m_ rh~ VI'\',-, 1 to take ~ff fGir Tehrah on Ia · . . _ those respt:~!1dmg:
m<;)ve ;· · a powerful 63.5 'percept· wouJq · choose are 
' ~ 'Undec1ded." 
·,.. . ·!
1 


' 
. i 
i • I
I ',· I I
I· ). '' • I .,
1 
,~ ' ; 
'·· ' -~ 
~ -------­



News in brief 
Coalition asksyouth to registerfor draft 
'X-''ASHINGTON (AP) -A coalition ofstudent and youth leaders >·esrcrday asked young Americans to register for a military draft, calling reg1stranon "the best way. to head off future So>viet adventurism." The group, called the Student and Youth Coalition ro Defend Democracy, criticizedamidraft groups as m1sn:presenring the opinions ofmany other young Americans. "To indicate that students and/oung people are unwilling to make the minimal sacrifice o draft registration is clearlv irrespon'iible and could lead to a mistake impression of U.S. weaknt•ss and complacency," said Bernie Friedman, an "rganizer of the coalition which claims w represent young people in both the Republican and Democratic parties. !"riedman said the group plans seminars on military preparedness on college campuses across the country. 
Firefighters return to work afterweek-longstrike 
CHICAGO (AP) . Striking firefighters agreed late last n_ight to return tu work this morning, under an agreement callmg for mutual amnesty and aro~nd_-the-clock neg?tia~ions to com­plete a written contract w1thm 24 hours. Ctrcult Judge John Hcchinger, in whose courtroom ~he_ agree~ent ending the wcek-lon8. strike was reached, satd 1t .rrovtdes tha~ t~e two sides "will enter around-the-clock contt_nuous ~egonanons to resolve all items still in dispute." Hechtnger sa1_d rep_resenta­tives of Mayor Jane Byrne agreed that the ctty ~til gr~nt amnesty against reprisal for all members of the C~1cago F1~e Fighters Union who stru~k as_ long as th_ey wer~ not mvolved m criminal activity. The unto~, m turn, saJd that It would_ not take any disciplinary action agatnst the firefighters who d1d not go out on strike. 
Weather 
Mostly cloudy wday and wmorrow. Chance of light rain by thi~. afternoon. Periods of rain Thursday night, ending Friday. High Thursday in the mid to upper 40s. Low Thursday night near 40. High Friday in the low 40s. 


CamP-_u_s
-----4 
I-_; pm EXHIBr~ION isis galery student exhibition, brigid 
ma-.t & tess panhe, ISIS GALLE_RY 
2: lO pm PHYSIC~ D~~T. L~CTURE "qc~ phenomenology 
of l~1~h pt s•attenng, dr. J.f. owens, flonda state u. 220 NII~\VL\ND · · 
(>.1 i pm LENTEN SCRIPTURE DISCUSSIONS BADIN 
IL\1.1. CAMPUS MINISTRY OFFICE ' 
(dO pm MEETING leadership training class sponsored by l<lllllllls crusade for christ, LEW'IS HALL REC ROOM 
-:-.•J.I1 pm FILM "the graduate" ENGINEERING .\lil>II'OI{ILJM. sponsored by the freshman class 
7 in pm MOVIE & DISCUSSION, the rahwey prison, "i'l'.lkn fr. dan rormey, former chaplain of a n.y. maximum -.n ur11)· pn-;on, Gl{ACE HALL PIT 
~. W pm JAPANESE FILM SERIES "seven samuri" W,\SI !INGTON HALL, sponsored by depts. of modern and ,f.l-..sJLtl languages and sp/ dr $1 
s prn LH:TUIU~ "n>gnitive development," dr. ann I. br .. wn. u. of illinots, HAGGAR AUD., sponsored by the dept. 111 p,.,y,lwlogy 
H pm LECTURE "poetry & the kinds of truth," .prof -;tephcn rt>gers, nd. sponsored by general program of ltberal sllJdrcs, MFM. LIBRARY LOUNGE 
H pm lntur(· series on the draft "the draft & social justice..;' pwf. prnes sr<:wan, nd & "the draft & the era." rose mane J,engesbath, dir. of women's <.·enter, south bend ywca li:\LVIN AUD. 
Hpm LECTURE floc speakers from ohio to present floc side 
of pruposcd ban of campbell's and libby's, ohio farm workers 
support commrtt..:,· of notre dame, 120 HAYES HEALY 
BDG. 
10 pm NAZZ duo. sometimes two" with joe statzer-and~..j-. cggheer AT THE NAZZ 
. Thursday, February 21, 1980 -page 2 
Economy grows stronger 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Don't look now, but the recession isn't here again. ·The latest figures show the economy growing much stronger than previously thought. 
On the other hand, inflation is apparently worse. 
The Commerce Department yesterday revised its figures on economic growth to show that the nation's gross national product increased at a 2.1 percent annual rate in the final three months of 1979, rather than the anemic 1.4 percent rate reported earlier. 
Placement Bureauoffers summer jobs 
The C,.nter for Human De­velopmem in Jersey City, NJ needs a full time staff assistant for the summer. Urban plunge or similar experience is re­quired 
The Mother of Mercy Cath­olic Church in Washington, NC is looking for a Parish Outreach staff person ·to work with mi­grants and blacks and to wit­ness to Catholic social teach­ings this summer. The job is full time, and some knowlege of Spanish would be helpful. 
The St. Louis Economic Con­version Project in St. Louis, MO needs a researcher in economic conversion for. useful economic alernatives to military produc­tion. The job is full time for the summer. 
Anyone interested in any of these three positions should send a resume and letters of recommendation to Tim Beaty, Placement Bureau, room 222 of the Administration Building by March 12. 
r--The Observer-
Night Editor: Steve Swonk Ass~. Night Editor.;·: Deirdre Murphy, Bill Keenan Copy Editor: Kathryn Casey 
Layout Staff: f ~a thy Vick, Mary Silvi News Editor: Mark Rust Editorial Layout: Colleen Sloan reatures Layout: Sal Granata Sports Layout: Chris Needles Typists: Beth Huffman, Michelle Kelleher, Nancy Russell. Paul Selavko Scoop Sulivan EA1T: Kim Convey 
Pruolreader: Bruce Oakley ND Day Ed1tor: .Janet Rigaux Ad Design: Bub Rudy Photographer: Tom Jackman Guest Appearances: Dave 
"Fish'" Wemhoff, Big John McGrath, We Love You RM 
The Observer [USPS 5!18 9211J Is published MondJy through Friclly er­cept during eum lnd vacatiln periods. The Observer is published by Ule students of Notre 011111 IDll Saint Miry's Calllgl. Subscrtptila lillY Ill purcllasld for S20 Plf year 1111 per sematlrl from The Observer, 1'.0. IIIli 
0. Nltn blllll,llldillll .__ SICIIId Cllll =e pild, Nitre 011111, ln­dillll . 
•. -Toe -0b5efVIf-II-• lllllllilr-11-1111­AIIIclltld Pms. All tljH Mllctlln rlgfltJ lrt ~. 
Althougn the Carter admin­Paul A. Volker, Chairman of . istration had forecast an econ­the Federal Reserve Board, 
omic downturn. during the first agrees that the economy is 
hatf of 1980, the economy continuing to outperform 
continues to expand with nearly recession forecasts. But he said 
two months gone by. this growth is masking some 
One of the President's chief serious problems, such as economic advisers, Lyle E. inflation, low productivity, and Gramley, said in an interview lagging investment. that it is now unlikely that a ''In one sense you can call this recession will begin in the first economy prosperous, ·but in quarter of the year. another sense It's an economy 
While he said the auto and rife with problems and dis­housing industries are suffer­tortions," he told the House ing, "We don't see any Banking Committee on evtdence that the weakness is Tuesday. spreading from autos and In the budget he submitted to houses to other sectors of the Congress on January 28, economy." . President Carter forecast a 
He sa1d his own odds on a recession in 1980, the ftrst time recession this year have ever that a President has made changed from 60-40 in favor ofa a recession part of his official recession to 60-40 against. . A forecasts. It appears he could number of private ·forecasters be proved wrong. also are softening their Unfortunately, while contin­recession forecasts. uing expansion of the economy 
Gramley said stron~ consumer has a favorable impact on spending is the mau\ factor in employment, it can make the growth of the economy. A fighting inflation more difficult New York bank, Morgan as it means businessmen and Guaranty Trust, says increased consumers are continuing to defense spending may also help increase their output and pur· to ke~p the economy out of chase of goods, which keeps recesston. upward pressure on prices. 


MASS follow-ed by
supper 


every_
FRIDAY 
at the 
NOTREDAME UNDERGRADUATE ICIALCOORDINATO 
applications available FEB 15 at 
TUDENT GOVERNMENT OFFI 
applications due FEB 29by 5 : OOpm 
-----------' 




-------------__, _________________________
~ 

Thursday, February 21, 1980 -page 3 
Soviet Union ignores deadline to w-ithdraw 

KABUL AFGHANISTAN (AP)-The Soviet Uniou ignored yesterday the deadline set by President Carter to withdraw its 100,000 troops from Afghani­stan. Western diplomats in the Afghan capital speculated the Kremlin may be forced to send additional men here to fight Moslem rebels. 
President Carter said Jan. 20 he would support a boycott of 
. the Olympics if the Kremlin did not withdraw its troops in a month, and a month later, yesterday, a U.S. State De­partment spokesman said, "The United States will not participa~~ in the Olympics in Moscow: In Moscow the deadline passed without comment. The official Soviet news media has charged the United States with trying to blackmail the Soviet Union, but it never reported the deadline imposed by Carter or its link to American participa­tion in the Olympics. Some Western diplomats here believe the Soviets and the Soviet-backed Afghan govern­ment will not be able to put down a 21-month rebellion b)L Moslem rebels without rein­forcements being sent from die Soviet Union. A Western diplomat said, ''There must be some military experts in the Kremlin advising the Politburo at this very mo­ment that only 200,000 more men would enable them to see the light at the end of the tunnel." A diplomat from a non­aligned nation said, "The Rus­sian·s are in a trap. They cannot retreat without losing face and they cannot go forward without getting more and more em­broiled in an inextricable situa­tion. The Russians have inter­vened against mutinous Afghan army units, but they seem reluctant to deploy their infan­try against the rebels. Despite the Soviet troop pre­sence in Afghanistan, the r.e. bels are in virtual control of the main supply route from Paki­stan, attacking civilian traffic at will and outmaneuvering Af­ghan soldiers sent to "pacify" the area. The Soviet army was no­where in sight when an Associ­ated Press reporter and three other Western reporters tra­veled in a convoy of trucks and buses on the highway from J alalabad, near the border with Pakistan, to Kabul. The convoy was ambushed repeatedly by 
Blooddonor appointments setfor today 
Grace Hall residents who have 
signed up to donate blood are 
asked to keep their appoint­
ments at the infirmary today. 
Throughout this week, Lyons 
and Holy Cross residents who 
wish to donate blood may sign 
up in their dorms. 
Donors are reminded that for one year after they give blood, they and their families are guaranteed free blood for trans­fusion if necessary. Lyons or Holy Cross residents who have questions should contact Jane Stoffel or Jim Ingolia. 
.•. 

rebels, and at least six vehicles were set afire. 
The Afghan army, estimated at 100,000 men before the Soviet intervention in late De­cember, is believed to have been cut in half through deser­tions, purges and guerrilla ac­tion. And Soviet-trained Af­ghan soldiers have shown little desire to fight the rebels who have engaged in sabotage, sniping, bomb attacks, hit-and­run raids and ambushes. 
Western i~telligence reports estimate that the Soviet army had suffered at least 3,000 casualities, including between 600 and 800 men killed, since the first of its forces intervened in late December. 
In a report from Kabul, the Soviet news agency Tass quo­ted the minister of education as saying ''The forces of imperi­alism of internal and external reaction ... are intimidating the 
Construction continues on the new dorms near the library. [photo by Tom jackman] 
population, exploding schools, killing teachers and children." 
Professor Bellaltastudies dangerous Old College walks 
Morris Inn on down," Bellalta
by Lynne Daley 
stated. "I want to provoke some awareness of the prob­The recent warm spell which lem. We cannot keep addingtransformed much of the Notre signs."
Dame campus into a large Bellalta's final report on thepuddle has turned the walk­lakefront area's problem is due ways around the Old College in the spring.
into a "quagmire, " according to Old College rector Fr. James 
F: Flanigan. To rectify the problem, Flanigan commissioned landscape archi­
ALsponsors
tect Esmee Bellalta to study the area. Bellalta, associate professor 

education
in the Notre Dame architecture department, cited as a main flaw a lack of preparation in the construction of the building discussion 
which was erected in 1846. ''The building was built with no Members of the Committee dr~e ~n the edge and the on Academic Progress and all ground wasn't graded away," intnested students of the Col­she explained. Because of this, lt:ge of Arts and Letters are Bellalta added, ''the earth remindt:d of the discussion and around the building is sliding resolution session on education­down the hill and gradually al opportunity and advance­wearing it away." ment to be held this evening at 
The building itself is in no 7 p.m. in 104 O'Shaughnessy immediate danger, Bellalta l-1,!11. stressed. "The construction is Those interested but unable to very good and there don't at tend should contact Ken Scar­appear to be any seepage brough or Terry Keeley. The problems,'' she observed. session will concern the estab­
The only structural damage is ltslunent of concrete proposals a badly cracked concrete side­and requests for changes in walk on the east side of the the Arts and Letters curriculum building. and scholarship opportunity. 
So although the ten residents of the Old College are safe inside, large quantities of mud often render the surrounding 
paths impassable. "It's im­possible to·walk there when the flow freezes,'' Bellalta said. The danger is not restricted to the footpaths. According to Bellalta, the ''mud pours across 
the road and makes it unsafe for 
driving.'' 
The most important consider­
ation of Bellalta' s study is the 
scenic value of the area. Her 
recommendations for any 
iroprovements will be designed . 
to ''preserve this peaceful 
area.'' 
Both Bellalta and Flanigan expressed dismay over the many signs along the side of the road. "They're ugly and they_ don't work. Sometimes traffic goes by at over 40 miles per hour," Flanigan said. 
"''m ,:oncerned about the vast 
amount of signage along that 
stretch of the road from the 
s~ uesPe~s llrsr. lltii'R{f. ~IJ'WYe't s 
evercy THURS'DAY dutWcg J!act -­lregbaWtg Fe'B. 21 
5:30 IJitt C\.1 "-·' f'•••ullll 
'~veryone, youngandold, shouldputa little-romance in their lives." ~-----rona barrett, abc tv 

FRIDAY2/22 & :SATURDAY2/23 
Carrolhall(SMC) 7,9llpm 
• 
.
• 

ARTOSTAL 
organizational meeting 
Sunday Feb 24th 7:00pm La Fortune Theater 
come one, come all!! no experience lleceuary 
-:·~ 
W.E'RE: 
• 
~NTiNG ~ 

YaJ! 

,') 

The Obtlener-Thursday' February 21' 1980 -page 4 
CILAsponsored lectures 




Gordon disrusses U. S. and draft 

by Jane Barber 
Henry J. Gordon and Ret. Capt. King Pfeiffer of the U.S. Navy discussed the conflict of "Voluntary Militia'versus Con­scription Militia" last night in 
'the Library auditorium. It was the third in a series of four lectures on the draft sponsored by the Student Government, CILA, the Campus Ministry and the Program for Studies of Non-Violence. Gordon gave a historical view of the draft in the United States. "War is one of the constants of history,'' he said. Beginning with the Revolution­ary War and colonial militias, Gordon recounted the reasons and' situations in which the draft was initiated in five waJ:S since. He gave these example of necessity of conscription to provide the audience wtth stan­dards of comparisons with which to determine how likely an actual draft is now. 
Gordon pointed out that an overview of the more recent drafts would be pertinent to evaluating the '.impending regi­stration of eighteen and nine­teen • year olds because it is unlikely that the circumstances of the earlier U.S. wars will ever recur. 
Gordon said that in the pre-World War II draft, "fair­ness was not an object." The government assumed everyone was needed for an even distri­bution of manpower and certain classifications in which one could obtain a deferment only determined when and in what capacity a young man would fight, not whether or not he would. Gordon said that this methodology functioned suc­cessfully.'' . 
However, he said that these deferments produced an in­e9uity, especially in the case of Vtetnam, where the rich and educated could avoid service and the army would consist 
THE LEADING NEWSMAGAZINE AT THE LOWEST PRICE. 
Because you attend college you are eligible to receive TIME, the world's lead­ing newsweekly at the lowest indi­vidual subscription rate, just 35¢ an issue. That's BIG SAVINGS off the regular subscription rate of 59¢ an issue and even BIGGER SAVINGS off the $1.25 
newsstand price. 
And it's so simple to subscribe-just look for the cards with TIME and its sister publications, Sports Illustrated, Fortune, Life, Money and People. They are available at the college bookstore or from your local TIME representative: 
Kevin Rochford 121 E. Navarre South Bend, IN 46601 
(219) 233-5298 
of mainly poor and illiterate. Gordon said that "the birth­date lottery is more equitable.'' 
Asked if there has ever been a registration when an actual draft did not occur, Gordon replied that the situation would be "a new phenomenon." 
Comparing the performance of volunteer soldiers with that of the draftees, Gordon said that ''to leave the fighting to those who chose it doesn't guarantee that they'll do it better. There is no evidence that volunteers fight better than draftees or vice versa. In battle cases, they are just as good." Gordon addressed the possible registra­tion of women for the first time in U.S. history. "Most armies in history have ·assiduously avoided the use of women,'' he said. There are two exceptions to this statement, he said, and they are the Red Army and the Israeli Army, who are now backing away from their use of women in combat. 
Gordon said that the ingrained Western cultural idea of pro­tecting women is the only problem with placing women in combat. "Women can fight as 
well  as  men  can--there's  just  
the  cultural  problem.  If  a  
woman  gets  shot,  everything  
stops."  

Capt. Pfeiffer noted in the bq~mning ofhis speech that the 
l Dotted States had a draft during peace time until it became a world power and involved in world affairs. "We always react to the last '·at · Pfeifer said, citing one example after WW II when the Lnited States did everything to avoid the appeasement that occurred after WW I. Pfeiffer opposed this pattern. "Each situation is different ... we can't draw exper­ience from one war," he com­mented. ''The United States had very little at stake in Southeast Asia (Vietnam) but now it does have vital interests 
Iin other places.'' 
"To deter agression, an army must be strong and quietly confident ... creditable,'' Pfeiffer said in regard to de­fense. Concerning the present situation in foreign affairs, he explained that the Soviets don't necessarily want a war. "This has been shown. But they will push us if they think they can.'' 
Pfeiffer said the draft is not a political move by President Carter because it involves such ''bad timing'' in terms of the election year. "It is dumb politics because it gets every­one upset." 
Pfeiffer noted that the main problem in U.S. militia was the severe lack of reserve forces that could be serious in the face of a sudden emergency. ''The reason for the draft would be to fill up the reserves and induce volunteers," he said. 
... Draft 
[continued from page 8] 
stan rial 44.) percent minority opposes any such action. 
' The results are based on 116 interviews with undergraduate and graduate students selected at random from Notre Dame and St. Mary's. The interviews were conduct~d · for The Observer on February 16-18 by the McNally Research Group, an independent market re­search organization in South Bend. 
----···-------------------------~--~--~-~-­

r-----­
~ ~-~ 
The Observer ·nursday, February 21, 1980 -page 5 


Soviet Armyuses U.S. supplied cotnputers . 
WASHINGTON (AP)--The United States made major "errors in judgment" by selling computers which the Soviet Union used to help make Army trucks and other military equip­
ment, a senior Defense Depart­ment official said yesterday. 
William J. Perry, the Pentagon's research chief, said government officials have know for three years that U.S. supplied computers were used in the Kama River manufact­uring plant to build trucks for the Soviet Army. 
Some of the trucks are now known to have been used in the Soviet military move into Afghanistan. 
Testifying before a Senate investigations subcommittee, Perry said the sales were continued over Pentason objections to sustain a policy of political detente with the Soviet Union. 
"Many people in a number of administrations believed that the political benefits were worth risks of technology trans­fer," Perry said. 
As important as the drain of actual American technology, he said. is the flow of' 'Intellectual property", knowledge ofhow to build and maintain computers and sophisticated electronic systems. 
Sen. Henry M. Jackson, D-Wash., the subcommittee chairman, said the techology transfer issue is J?art of a larger campaign in wh1ch the Soviet 
...Debate 
[continued from page 1] 
proposals for increased off­campus security, a change in teacher evaluation procedure, and more opportunities for campus entertainment. 
Slanery, brandishing a stuffed 
penguin named "Tusk," an­
nounced his proposal to bring 
the 1980 Summer Games to 
Notre Dame. Slattery considers 
Notre Dame a more suitable 
site than Moscow because, 
although he considers the Uni­
versity an autocracy, it is "not 
an oppressive regime. It's more 
of a benevolent dictatorship," 
he concluded. 
Slartery's proposals drew ap­
plause and laughter from the 
audience, and bemused looks 
from the other candidates. Ca­
rey's mvmng everyone to a 
happy hour added to the jovial 
mood. 
The small turnout was ironi­
cal, since all of the candidates 
verbalized a necessity for more 
student participation. 
Originally, there were five 
presidential candidates. But 
last night before the debates 
started Jim White (with Randy 
McNally as vice president) an­
nounced his withdrawal from 
the campaign due to "election 
regulations.·' 
Pennsylvania 
delegates 
togather 
The Pennsylvania State Delegation for. the Mock Repub­lican ConventiOn will meet to­Jay at 5 p.m. in the Alumni Hall basement lounge for an inti1rmal get-rogether. 
:. .~ ....·~ .. ·-· ............. ~ ....... ~-~-.--........ .. 
~---·---­
Union milks the United States 
for its technological know-how 
but provides nothing in return~ 
Jackson said the Soviets buy 
nominal a-'?ounts of U.S. equip­
ment, mamly computers, then 
learn all they can about the 
equipment and build their own. 
''What the Soviet Union is 
doing is conducting a-cream­
skimming operation," he said. 
Had it not been for the Soviet 
m(;we into Afghanistan, Jackson 
sa1d, the Commerce Depart­
n:'e~~· which has chief respon­
sibility for export licenses, 
would have continued to permit 
transfer of computers to the 
Soviet Union. 
''It would have been business 
as usual," the Senator said. 
Jackson, .a persistent critic of 
detente With the Soviet Union, 
asked Perry if the Russians also 
are running an intensive clan­
destine effort to obtain U.S. .industrial secrets. 
How to impress your date, 
satisfy your appetite, 





and save a few bucks 
(all in one night.) 
Treat her-or him-to any one of our nationally-famous specialties listed below in our money-saving coupons. Because, even when the money's a little tight, you deserve the best. 


...
-----------~------------------~---~----~--~ 
1bursday,February 21, 1980 -page 6
Editorials 
The FLOC Boycott 
Pro Con 
You are being asked to
H.OCisrnore than a union of however, because the canneries lation is a social product and 
bell of moving to mechanical 
support an attempted boycott of
farmworkers. FLOC is a union refused to contract with those .he most severely affected by 
harvesong of tomatoes as reac­
.ts implementation (i.e. dis­
Campbell Sou[\ Company
o_(people orp,anzzed to work for growers in the following yeaf. 
tion to the boycott. Again, this
placed migrams) should share 
prodm:ts by an orgamzation is not true.
the betterment ofthe conditior1s Then·fore, efforts to obtain 
known as the Farm Labor
o( jarmworkers, people whose better wages from the farmers m the benefits of mechanical 
The move to mechanization 
Organizing Committee (FLOC).
lit•es and fortunes have been cannot be successful in the long harvesters. An industry built 
in the tomato industry in Ohio 
run, since the farmers :!r~ 011 rh.. development and fos­
We appreciate the opportunity 
ac/r,ersefy affected by thezr 
over rhe years is in response to 
caught between the farmwor­te nng of a migrant stream from 
to provide you with the position
mvolvement in tht• so-called 
a very real threat of the 
kers who need better wages and across the nation cannot simply 
ofCampbell Soup Company and
mtp,rant stream. 
disappearance of the industry
the companies who determine a be allowed to cry that granttng 
to place this matter in proper
The hands of migrant farm­
in that state. The mechaniza­
workers participation in the·
workers help put food on mil­price for the crop in the 
perspective. tion is not an anempt to
benefits of mechanization is
lions of American dinnertables. pre-season. Company contracts 
FLOC is a union formed in eliminate jobs but to save 
1967 to organize farm workers in
Yet stoop labor at low pay ~igned in the pre-season wid inefficiem and unprofitable. 
thousands of jobs not only 
brings ltttle reward. The individual growers determine Certainly, in no case should the 
Ohio, Michigan, and Indiana. 
within the tomato industry bur
corrorations be allowed te use 
FLOC's threatened boycott in­
average lifel span of migrant how much money can be allo 
also those which arc supported
volves the question of Campbell by the tomato industry.
farmworkcrs is under 60 with cared for labor costs (i.e. the thi~ technology to break the 
farmworkers' share). What efforts of workers trying to 
Soup Company engaging in
old age providing few of the 
wage the grower pays the bettf'r their conditions by form­
collective bargaintng with
beneftts such a~ decent social 
Tomato Industry 
farmworkers comes out of Lhe ing a union. Yet this is what 
FLOC for farmworkers in Ohio. 
The California tomato indus­
security payments, that we all 
Campbell Soup does not employ 
take for granted. Most housing price dictated to him by the Campbell's has attempted in 
try has been the biggest threat
the last year through tts con­
any of these farmworkers.
consists of one-room shacks for company. It is because of this 
to the tomato industry in Ohio 
tract policy. 
FLOC has no direct connec­
as well as other states. Ohio is
an enme family with no indoor influence of the companies in 
plumbing. Schooling is inter­setting wages and benefits for All of the above discussion 
tion with Campbell Soup Com­second only to California in 
pany. FLOC does not represent
rupted frequently as children the mtgrant workers that FLUC u; ings us to our role as con­
tomato production, but it is a 
and is not attempting to organ­distant second. In 1978, Cali­
work alongside their parents in has been forced to insist on the sumers and our relationship to 
a family's effort to earn a direct involvement of the com­farmworkers. The question is 
ize any Campbell empl,oyees. fornia harvested almost 80 per­
Therefore, there is no basis for 
meager income. panies in collective bargaining not exclusively one of union 
cent of the tomatoes in the 
with the growers. recognition and corporate re­
a collective bargaining rela­United States compared to 7
The migrant labor stream 
Confronted by the demands sponsibility, although at one 
tionship. pcrcem in Ohio.
coming from South Texas and 
of the worker and the control of level, these elements form a 
Boycott Attempt The competitive struggle be­
Florida into the Midwest is kept 
the canneries, some farmers basis for discussion of the 
FLOC is attempting a boycott tween Ohio and Calfornia has
fluid and mobile, with jobs 
turned to mechanization to cut issue. On a more fundamental 
of Campbell products to force grown more and more critical.
providing none of the longer 
the cost and bring their busi­level, we are looking at people 
us to participate in the labor The tomato industry in Califor­
term stability and benefits of 
ness to parity. To be profitable who are exploited in their life 
negotiations between FLOC nia has more than doubled in
industrial employment. Farm­
in the Ohio fields, a farmer situation. The element of 
and the growers who sell toma­the past ten years while in Ohio 
workers, often entire families, 
would need to have 40 acres of human suffering, a struggle to 
toes to us. Campbell Soup tomato production has dropped
move from job to job and 
tomatoes to pay for the $40,000 sustain livable conditons in 
Company should not and will 25 percent during the same
employer to employer. When it 
mechani,-aJ harvester. Cost is spite of adverse pressures, 
not inject itself into the labor period.
rains, or when workers have our
not the only factor. Mechanical forms a deeper basts for 
negotiations between our sup­
Calzfornia Edge 
been overrecruited and there is 
harvesters do not clean a field response as a consuming com­
pliers and organizations re­
The competitive edge that
little work, or when the harvest 
as well as human labor and they mtmity. · 
presenting the employees of 
California enjoys has been at­
is sparse, migrants suffer. In · Consumers have the power to 
are often unmanageable in Ohio 
these suppliers. 
tributed largely to mechaniza­
ways such as these, they bear influence the moral policies of
where the land is often wet 
We take this position for the 
tion of tomato harvesting in that
the largest part of the nsks of corporations, which exist on the
during the harvest period. Yet 
following reasons: 
state. California has been
the harvest, but reap the smal­good will of the consumer
unless the small.farmer· joins tht 
-It would be improper and 
mechanically harvesting toma­
lest share of the income. In market. Arguments made by
process of mechanization, he or 
presumptuous for Campbell 
toes almost 100 percent since
1979, tomato pickers were earn­the compames, while having
she leaves large landowners at 
Soup Company ro interfere with 
1967. Ohio began using me­
ing less than a penny a pound varied degrees of relevance to
a distinct advantage with their 
a supplier ana another organi­
chanical harvesters as early as
for picking tomatoes; they had the dilemma at hand, fall short
superior equipment. Some 
zation doing business together. 
1960 but the original machines
no guarantees of minimum of addressing the issue of the
growers have begun to organize 
-We seek the goodwill of both 
were too heavy for the Ohio
employment time, had no medi­human implications of their
to deal with the canneries, but 
suppliers and their employees 
fields and bogged down in wet
cal benefits or decent pesticide actions. In banning these
workers must also be involved 
because both are vital to a 
weather.
protection. products, we can demonstrate
in the negotiations. 
supply of materials we need to 
With the development of
In an attempt to stand up for Campbell's and Libby's ar­to the companies our dissatis­
produce our products. 
lighter models, more and more
their rights to better working gue that FLOC does not have faction with prevailing policies. 
_ 
-We do business with many 
growers are moving toward
and living conditions, tomato the support of workers because · Sensitivity on our part here at 
thousands of suppliers. It 
mechanical harvesting of toma­
workers in northeast Ohio the Umon has relatively few Notre Dame in identifying with 
would be absolutely impractical 
toes. -' 
formed FLOC in the late 1960's. due-paying members on a the plight of the farmworkers 
for us to try to partiCipate in the 
Agricultural experts at Ohio
However, forming a successful twelve month basis. Farm­and supporting their struggle is 
conduct of thetr business. 
State University have calcu­
union in agriculture is a difficult workers do not have the money an important step that we can 
Serious Question 
lated that it costs about ·$39,000 
undertaking. Farmworkers are to pay dues on a year long take in approaching the wr­
A serious question can be 
to hand harvest 100 acres of
excluded from rights tQ organ­basts, but during the past two porations. By voting to ban 
raised as to whether or not 
tomatoes, compared with less
ize granted to workers under years, FLOC obtained union Campbell's and Libby's pro­
FLOC truly represents the 
than $20,000 to harvest by
the National Labor Relations authorization cards from over ducts on campus, we are ac­
farmworkers in Ohio. FLOC 
machine. The obvious econo­
Act, and simfly do not have the BOO families. (there are multi­knowledging our concern and 
claims 1,000 members out of mic advantage enjoyed by Cali­
right to cal for an election ple earners in a family). The responsibility for people who 
10,000 workers involved in the 
fornia must be achieved in Ohio 
when they feel that they have partial success of the strike in a are suffering, who are power­
tomato harvest. However, the 
if the tomato industry is to
the support of a majority of lab;Jr market where workers are less, and who are asking for our 
required financial report filed 
survive in that state.
workers. Further1 because easily replaced, and Campbell's help as their equals. We are 
with the U.S. Department of 
Mechanization not only can
farmworkers comprise no poli­decision to grant contracts to simply being asked to be hu­
Labor in 1979 would indicate 
save the industry, but history
tical constituency they stand tomato growers only if the; mans and to feel their situation 
FLOC had only about 35 dues 
has shown that technological
little chance of gaining cover­mechanized (and thus averted with them and by a sacrifice on 
paying members based on 12 
improvements have created
age under the NLRA. There is labor "difficulties") also attest our part to help them work their 
months of dues. If FLOC could 
more jobs over the long run
linle support in rural agricul­strongly to the workers' support way out of thetr powerlessness. 
be successful in forcing Camp­
rather than eliminating them.
tural areas for a union of of FLOC. Beyond this, it is We can exercise our basic 
bell Soup and other canneries 
It would appear FLOC's only 
migrant workers. The econo­clear that Campbell's would not Christian compassion as a 
into agreements, it would also 
basis for the boycott is that
mic base of these areas often agree to union recognition even community by saying that no 
force the farmworker to join the 
after more than ten years of
depends entirely on bringing in if ~ vote by all workers showed one has to live and work as 
union in order to work and the 
trying and failing to have
the crops, and migrants who uniOn support. farmworkers presently do and 
farmers to agree to labor con­
migrant worker voluntarilyJ·oin 
stand up for their right~ :re The implication of the corpora­that the power in the food 
tracts in order to grow toma­
its union, FLOC has change its
rationalized away as trouble­tions' arguments is that FLOC industry can and should be 
toes. Ba . R. h tactics and is trying to achieve
makers or outsiders. in unilaterally opposed to any used more to help the people 
SIC tg t 
its goal through means of the
In spite of the difficult ob­mechanization. FLOC is not that put food on our tables. We 
This would force upon the 
boycott against Campbell Soup 
stacles, FLOC obtained con­against mechanization and can vote to help FLOC or 
farmworker and his employer a 
and Libby's, who have been
tracts with some growers in the agrees that stoop labor jobs Monday, February 25. 
union which they refused to 
singled out of the entire can­
industry in early organizing should be replaced by mechani­The 50 Members ofthe Ohio 
voluntarily become associated 
ning industry. 
efforts. These contracts proved cal harvesters. However, the Farmworker Support Com· 
with, which is their basic right. 
to be of no lasting nature, technolop behind the mechani-mittee 
FLOC is also accusing Camp-Czmpbell Soup Company 
administration of either institution. 
Editorial Board and Department Managers 
The news is reported as accurately and
-The Observer-as objectively as possible. Editorials Editor-m-chze( ... ....Rosemary Mills Sports Editor ............. .....Mark Perry represent the opimon of a majority of Managmg Editor..........Diane Wilson Features Editor ..... Kathleen Connelly Box Q NolTe Dame, IN 46556 the Editorial Board. Commentancs, Editorial Editor.. ............ Ann Gales Photo Editor .............. Doug Christian opmions and letters are the views of Senior Copy Editor.........M. Onufrak 
The Observer is an independent their authors. Column space is avail­Executive News Editor ...... Mike Lewis Business Manager ... .....~teve Odland newspaper published by the students able to all mefnbers of-the community, News Editor.. .................. Mark Rust Production Manager ..... John McGrath ofthe University of Notre Dame du lac and .the free expression of varying News Editor ................. Mike Shields Advertising Manager .. Mike Holsinger and Saint Mary's College. It does not opm10ns on campus, through letters, is SMC News Editor ........ Margie Bta~sil Controller..................Kevin Manion necessarily reflect the policies of the encouraged. · Circulation ~nager......Greg Hedges 
-----~ -~-------------------~----------­
------~-------------------~~-----~-------------~-------........ 

1f"eatures Thursday, February 21, 1980 -page 7 
siunare eb:tric guitar on all three their youthful exuberance shines
Benatar's confusion; she has more 
~••ng-; "Trmight s the Night," espec­through so wei! that one cannot help
1han enough talent; all she needs is a 
ially, shows the fine relationship of but have as much fun as the band.
li1tle conrir.UJry w rise to the top.
Neil Young's guts to hi~ fingertips. Bob Geldof, lead vocalist and writer Here Bdl) Talbot's manic, secret­for the band, is simply and ag<'nl-lnan type bass line fires Neil Michael Korbel aggressively obnoxious. He attacks int<J a frenzy of heavy-metal pointil­each rune as if it was his privilege to i-,rn which re-;ults, i{ seems, in a total perform, whether the audience likes dissipation of energy. it or nor. The thing is, the songs are 
lf/'aodl'lock offers hope; Live Rust so full ofcrass sincerity, so energetic, t~lfers sar-.:asm: perhaps because the TheFmeArt so witty, and so refreshingly sad that Woodstock days are over or, more we cannot help but feel empathy for probably.-because innocence is of Surfacing the man. bound to give way to experience. Neil The band, trom a musical stand­Young is one of the few Woodstock r )int is defiQ,itely New Wave, but
The Boomtown Rats 
perf~•nners who is still doing well in thev are endowed with some talented the bu-,i•wss. Lit•e Rust sadly ex­guitar players. competent drumming, pla•ns why. (Columbia) and enough keyboard embellish­ments to make each song interesting. 
"I Don't Like Mondays,'' the song 
but not over-arranged. In fact, theTom Balcerek that became a Top 40 hit until the Rats sound like very early Kinks, but 
dumb AM disc jockeys figured out its with a distinct advantage of instru­macabre subject, is undoubtedly one mental virtousity that Ray Davies'live Rust 
of the most provocative melodies of 
group could not muster until much 
the year. "Someone's Looking at later in their career.Neil Young This is the album which will
You,'' now getting considerable FM airplay, rocks with some catchy establish the Rats as a viable musical 
rhythm hooks that earmark it as a entity and win over a great many
(Warner) must for every current radio prog­fans. The album has caught on ram. "Sleep" is a return to the early slowly, first in Great Britain and now message music typical of the first in the U.S., three months after its
Neil Young's Live Rust can be seen British invasion sounds. "Diamond release. It's been a long time sinceas a wonhy sequel to Woodstock; and Smiles" is just a great song, if not an anyone has created music that is fun a.., a sequel it is ironically appropriate unusual observauon on high society. rock 'n' roll with any kind of artisticthai Lil'e Rust is a one-man show: In fact, every song on the new message. Get the album and give it what was once a "we" generation is Boomtown Rats' album. The Fine Art a chance. It grows on you unlikenow a "me" generation. But more of Surfacing, is as enjoyable as it is anything else available today.
important in the relationship between unique. This six-man, new Newthe two is that Woodstock is an album Wave group simply has a great time
of innocence while Live Rust is an Tim Sullivan
on every track on the album, andalbum of innocence and experience. 
Young bemoans the loss of inno­cenu: on the album's first song, ··sugar Mountain" but then offers 
INeed A lover 
hope of retaining it with "I Am a Child.·· He does both songs in a 
Ice Capades celebrate 40th 
syrupy loner's voice which achieves PatBenatar ihe <.Jestried effect but is sometimes 
bother::.ome when the original, more (Chrysalis)
pens1ve, versions are taken into 
anniversary at the ACC 
,_., msiderat ion. 
Pat Benatar is either an unbeliev­He continues his acoustic S<"t with a ably multi-•alented artist, or she is a Ice Capades presents irs 40th Christmas-card-come-to-life, com­naked "Comes a Time" and a confused and frustrated performer Anniversary Super Show begtnning plete with a magical Winter. ~arnival,b<'aut iful version of "After the Gold not knowing which way to turn. I'm Tuesday, February 26 through and in Ice Capades tradltlon, thel{ush ... Here the innocent Neil Young not really sure which. It seems that Sunday, March 2 for '' ne perfor­world-famous lee Capett:es close thedocs a little foreshadowing. "When I she doesn · t know whether to follow 
mances. show with their intricate precisionge1 big I'm going to get an electric the powerful driving rock of the early The show's talented cast reflects rout.i.rtc.
gui1ar," he says and then proceeds to seventies, or to take her chances in years of superb skating performed toplay a taunting, haunting "My My, the unpredictable New Wave scene of audiences throughout the U.S. andHey Hey (Out of the Blue)." . 
t;te latt: sevcll[ies and early eighties. 
Canada.
OUI of the blue, indeed! Side two On songs like "Heartbreaker" and Topping the bill in the dazzlingopens with an exhilarating, better­.. No You Don't," Benatar shows her array of skanng stars is Olympic andthan-the-original version of "When ability to provide some of the cleanest World Champion Dorothy Hamill.
You Dance," and follows with an rock power that any of us have heard Her unique skating style will high­e4ually souped-up rendition of "The for quite a while. 
light this year's festive anniversaryLoner.·· On these two songs Crazy These arc the songs which are spectacle, in a new selection of soloHorse is very tight and Young's lead recieving the heavy radio over-play and production numbers.
is excelle111. After a brief relapse into these days, due to the lack of anythe acoustic ("The Needle and the Damage Done and "Lotta Love"), Young and Crazy Horse ride again af1er Young coyly suggests to Ius band, "Let's play some rock 'n' roll. .. The album is all electric from here on out. 

If we've heard Rust Never Sleeps, we know we are headed ''into the black.·· Side three of Live Rust slarts us on our wav. With "Powder­finger" the experie'nce starts to show a-, Young sings of a 22 year old suffering a murder/suicide (we don't know which) at the hands of society. Then. Rastamun Young does some reggae in a queasy ''Cortez the Killer... "Plenty bad man," he hollers at the song's conclusion. 
Young becomes plenty bad man himself on side four as he plays the most expressive electric guitar since his "Down by the River" days. On "Like a Hurricane" he pulls out all the stops and bends notes at every emotional whim. The intensity of the song is shattered when Young breaks qlf a soaring guitar solo for no apparem reason orher than to end the song quickly. He follows "Hurri­cane" with an OK version of "Hey Hey. My My" and then we get the abysmally dark "Tonight's rhe Night" for an encore. 
.Although side four is the most depressing side of the album, it is also the most artistic. Young is at his self-indulgent best .as he pfays pas-other quality hard rock being pro­duced. What the radio listener will never learn is that she sounds the best on songs that aren't designed for her to stretch her vocal cords out of shape. I Need a Lover received some a1rplay early, but was quickly over­shadowed by the previously men­tioned songs, which is a good example of the second-grade mental­ity of most programming executives these days. 
"I Need a Lover" is a fine example of the modern pop song, comparable with some of the more popular ] oe .Jackson Material. On songs like "We L1vc for Love and "My Clone Sleeps Alone,·· Benatar sounds so much like Blondie's Deborah Harry that it's hard ro imagine that this is the same lady that sings "Heartbreaker." Either she doesn't know exactly what she wanrs or she is the victim of poor management and production. It's hard to imagine one artist with such a widely diversified style. On this first album, Benarar seems to try to please everyone, by straddling the impor­tant styles of the day. To survive, she'II have to make a decision about which stYle to follow. 
The mood of the album, and almost every song on the record, deals with the cruelty of a present lover or the inability to find a true lover. She even goes as far as to record Alan Parson's "Don't Let It Show" from I, Robot. This is just another example of 
Other outstanding champions this year are Canadian Men's Champion Donald Knight, four time Canadian Ladies' Champion Lynn Nightingale, the astounding ] apanese Champion Sashi Kuchicki, and U.S. Bronze Medalists Donny and Lorene Mit­chell. 
In addition to these featured cham­pions. there are a variety of talented and captivating performers including adagio> artists ] illian and Danne, vivacious]anet Runn, dynamic David Fee and lovely Leigh Ann Davis. 
For laughter, nothing beats the antics of British comics Mike Course and Bob Young. The zany Jcan­Pierre Romar.0 and the tumbling­clown Peluza add to the fun. Teenage skating juggler and world record­holder, Alben Lucas keeps flaming torches and other items airborne with a special flair. 
In the Jl new show "STAR STRUCK", the productions include "Celestial Voyage" which takes au­diences to the interplanetary Ice 
Station Zero. Favorite cartoon char­acters and many other magical "Wiz'' citizens are found in "Wiz City." A highlight is the amazing flying ballet who soar 35ft. above the ice. ":\ Disco Fantasy" salutes the most popular tempos on the ice today, while "Here, There And .Everywhere" salutes the dancing styles of several different countries. ''Winter Wishes'' is a Currier & I ves 
Sashi  Kuchiki  performs  his  
famous  fire  dance  at  the  Ice  
Capades.  ·  

Nine performances are scheduled ' February 26 through March2, intlu' ·. ding four matinees. Evening ~hows ': run Tuesday through Saturday· b~. · ginning at 8:00 p.m. Matinees are': Saturday at Noon and 4:00 p,'tr)~ .,
1
and Sunday at 2:00 p.m. and 6:00 , · 
p.,m. '.··~~. 
Tickets range from $4.50 to $7,,$0' , with $2.00 discounts for Seriibt-1.1'. Citizens and Youths 16 years ,fl.nd \'/, under for the Thursday 8:00 P·r:ii\f;l: 
Saturday 4:00p.m., and Sunday ~;~.i[l',, p.m. performances. · ·I·, riv\. Tickets may be purchased ·~( f~di\(. Market Square. Arena Box 9f~~i:j),',( Ross & Y o~:~ng Ttcket Agency, ~9f~i ~ :.( Babcock T1cket Agency and Ay~f~'",~' /)1· Co. Sto~es. Or charge by phoqe! ~~t!i:l' ; your V1sa or Masterchargc., ''W~*~;)'I;'I
639-4444. r!..J.~Ii,l.J 1i', For group of Scout discount>:'i;litok.~·,. marion, call 632-8576. '•';;'/'11.1,1:•,
'./.'J 
····'!,.'/' 
r The Observer Thursday, February 21, 1980 -page 8 
... Draft 
[continued from page 1] The most unified position on campus was that supporting the -only abom half that number, or inclusion of women in the 30 percent, would vote for him registration ifit is to take place. Similarly, 62 percent of regi· By an overwpelming 79 to 18 stration supporters here bad percent margin, Notre Dame the President, while only 37 and St. Mary's students are in percent of those opposins regi­favor of the measure. National­stration would support htm. ly, according to the New York 
Overall, these figures indi­Times poll, only a slim 51 cate current campus support for perce~t majority suppor_ts the Carter that is closely tied to the mcluswn of women, wtth 31 Afghan crisis and the general percent favoring the registra­confrontation with the Soviet tion of men only. Union. As long as Carter's new The s.tpdents at Notre Dame policies stay in favor aQlo~g are thought by some here to be students here, campus cam­more conservative and more paigns supporting Edward patriotic concerning national Kennedy and Jerry Brown will defense than those of other have difficulty eroding Carter U.S. campuses, a characteriza­support. uon seemingly borne out by 
This phenomenon is echoed these high margins of support. m national polls indicating that As opposed to Notre Dame's Caner is the exclusive political substantial 67 percent approval beneficiary of the current inter­of registration, for example, national crisis. students at Harvard supported 
In a New York Time/Cm the measure by only 47 percent, \Jew Poll conducted during tht and at Northwestern by just same period and released yes· 49.6 percent, according tc terday, the President demon­student newspapers the.re. strated ''startling imp_rove­At other campuses, such as ments" over last month tn the the University of California at 18-to-29-year-old age group Berkeley, Yale, and Oberlin despite controversy over draft College in Ohio, thousands of regtstrarion. The poll indicated students have turned out for that overall, Americans backed anti-draft rallies in recent res.umption of the draft by 55 to weeks. 37 percent, but the college­· The only issue that Notre aged gro,up split almost evenly, Dame and St. Mary's students 
46. _in favor and 50 percent seem to be divided on is agamst. whether or not there are cir­
A TIME magazine poll re­cumstances under which they leased earlier this month show­could support an actual peace­ed that Americans favor the time draft. A slender 53 Olympic boycott by a 67 to 24 percent majority could support percent margm, almost exactly such a measure, while a sub-the same spread as was indicat­
[continued on page 4]
ed here at Notre Dame. 
We've got a 

The thaw has reminded us that sunshine, frisbee andbookstore basketball are not toO far away. (photo by Tom jackman] • 
Juniors ~t record crowd 
byEariRix 
The 1980 Junior Parents Weekend will be held from Feb. 22-24, and a record 2500 people are expected to/articipate. 
The weeken kicks off at Stepan Center with a cocktail dance at 9:00 p.m. on Friday. Dance chairman Bill Corrigan said that Stepan Center will be transformed into a veritable summer oasis. "Extensive decorating and music by Dennis 

Bamber shoiuld make this a ing workshop in 120 Hayes­memorable event," he added. Healy. There will be a cash bar and Fr. Theodore Hesburgh will light snacks will be served. be the primary celebrant of the Corrigan invites all juniors, Junior Class mass at 6:30 p.m. with or without their rarents, to on Saturday. Father Van attend. Tickets wil be avail­Wolvlear, P.resident of Student able for $3.00 at the door. Affairs, wtll be the homilist. 
Collegiate workshops are Buses will leave Sacred Heart scheduled from 9:30 a.m. till Church following the mass to noon on Saturday. There will transport students and parents be presentations followed by an to the President's Dinner which opportunity for parents to meet starts at 8:00 p.m. in the north informally with faculty mem­dome of the ACC. Hesburgh bers over donuts and coffee. will be the main speaker. The College of Science work­Following the dinner, there will shop will meet in Washington be receptions in most of the Hall and then separate by dormitories. departments. The College of Registration packets, which Arts & Letters workshop will will include tickets and itiner­meet in the South Dining Hall aries, can be picked up at and the College of Engineering LaFortune from 2:00 p.m. to and Architecture will meet in 8:00 p.m. on Friday and from the Engineering Auditorium. 9:00 a.m. to 1:00 p.m. Satur­The Accounting workshop will day or at 9 at the cocktail dance be located in the Library aud­Frtday night. The deadline for itorium, the Finance workshof students to purchase dinner in 127 Nieuwland Science Hal , and breakfast tickets is Friday the Marketing workshop in 122 at 5 p.m. in LaFortune. Hayes-Healy, and the Manag­
.. . Iran 
[continued from page I] 
condition," a White House statement said. 
It also said the United States ''has taken note of the secre­tary-general's statement that the commission will undertake a fact-finding mission. It will not be a tribunal." 
The hostages were spending their 109th day in the captivity of young Moslem militants at the U.S. Embassy in Tehran. 
The militants, who have de­manded the exiled shah's re­turn to Iran in exchange for the hostages, have not said whe­ther they accept the idea of the 
U.N. mtssion. But they have rt'peatedly pledged obedience to Iranian revolutionary leader Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini, who Bani-Sadr said had ap­proved the mission. 
At the U.N. briefing, Wald­heim formally announced the composition of the commission, which had previously been 
~ 
leaked to the new media.
CJ 
Besides Pettiti, the members . 
-0 
aa are Andres Aguilar of Venezu­
. 

;t'• "'-""t" I•'"• . e" .,• •..,, '•' , :· 
IF\..••,... 
..~.4'.4(!;-C"G"§.·"«-."'!..:'.r!<lf:tr.("/~ :~~,·..:.r.~~......:f'..,., ·' 'Jtl:..•..•••..........,-... ·..r4'.J,"......J'__.,.~ '\.·~ .................."= .•..• ...• ...-: 

Thursday' February 21' 1980-page 9 
... Irish 

DePaul's Mark Aguirre [in ski cap dribbling basketbai!J engages in a pick-up game with three Blue Demon teammates during a practice session last week 
...DePaul 
[..:ontinued from page 12] 
h 
1
or er Payers. We were playing as if we only had 
one player at times. 
"Coach, I thought, had the kids a little nervous." 
Ray Meyer let them loose because he "found out we are a better transition team than we are a halfcourt team." 
Since that day in late December, the Blue Demons have been the epitome of confidence. 
And if DePaul has had any problems this year, they seem to stem from an overabundance of that confidence. Throw the pressures of an undefeated, number one ranked season aside. Ray and Joey Meyer worry about the teams without the reputations of Notre Dame, LSU, and Missouri more than anything else. 
"This is a most unusual team," growls 66 year old Ray Meyer. "We win by turning it on and turning it off. There's going to be that night when we want to go and we won't be able to." 
I just don't think they come ready to play for lesser teams," comments Joey. "Our easiest wins have been the big games because the kids are ready to play--the team with no name is the team that's been giving DePaul problems." 
Things like hostile crowds and teams with Grade A reputation merely inspire the Blue 
Demons boasts Ray Meyer. "Our kids come from the inner city schools,'' he says with a grin. "And I never saw a city kid run from a chance to 
prove his worth in the spotlight." \ As far as being number one in the land, Joey' Meyer believes, "They've adapted to the 
pressure.  They're  relaxed  with  it,  they  
understand  it  and  it  doesn't  bother  them  
anymore:"  Although he is quick  to  acknow­ 

l~dge, "_During the fir~ttwo weeks, the kids get ured of 1t all (the medta and fan attention)." 
And so, with only two weeks remaining m the season, DePaul rolls towards South Bend and the NCAA tournament on a high note. "The team morale, the team togetherness -it's corning more and more," ·offers 6-9 freshman 
Te~ry Cummings, DePaul's leading rebounder. "ll you're going to go out and protect your number one every day, go out and have fun doing ir. Everybody's enjoying themself and everybody's enjoying each other." 
Like ~ark Aguirre says, if you're going to tell yuurself, "It's a job, it's a job,' working every day-you might as well be a professional." 
No, if you're going to be number one, you rntght as well settle back, relax and do your thing. At DePaul, they just play ball. 

============================== 
Martin to manage Oakland 

CHICAGO (AP) -Billy Martin, former manager of the New York Yankees, will lead the Oakland A's next year, the team's owner, Charles 0. Fin­ley said last night. 
Finley said he was calling a news conference for 3 p.m. CST, Thurs~y in Chicago to announce thaft Martin had b.een hired. Finley ;,aNd Martin would have a two-yeu cotlU.Ct but he refused to discuss other terms. 
Martin was fired last October from his job as manager of the New York Yankees after a fight in a Bloomington, Minn., hotel bar with a Lincolnshire, Ill., marshmallow salesman. 
Martin had resigned as mana­ger during the 1978 season after calling owner Geor~e Steinbrenner a "convicted har" and was replaced by Bob Le­mon, who guided the Yankees to the World Series champion­ship. But Steinbrenner replaced Lemon during the 1979 season with Martin. 
Asked if he had gotten as­surances from Martin that the fiery former Yankee infic::ld~r would behave himself, Fmley said, "I never talk to a man like that." 
"He's matured," Finley said. ''He's old enough to know right from wrong.' ' 

DON'TSTAYATHOMETONIGHTII CHECK OUT THIS STUDENT SPECIAL WED &THURS AT THE 
Ratnrod Bar -• 
4-7oz beers for S1.00 
(while supplies last) pool, pinball and jukebox 
bring your id 
RAMROD 511 5 MICHST DOWNTOWN SOUTH BEND 
-_ ....,-.~~_...,_ ..... ..,
-
keep our momenttUn gomg. 
The Irish momentum stopped momentarily midway through the second half when Phelps had four reserves in the game at one time. When the Muske­teers pulled to within nine, 66-5 7, Phelps reinserted his starters, who built up a more comfortable margin. 
Juniot forward Tracy ] ackson led the victors with 24 points. Teammate Kelly Tripucka ad­ded 20 points, while all of Rich Branning's 14 points came in the second half. 
Orlando Woolridge, who teamed with Bill Hanzlik on one pretty alley-oop play, scored 12 points and pulled down a game-high 1) rebounds. 
Xavier guard Anthony Hicks score({ 20 points, while team mate Gary Massa had 14. 
NOTRE OAME-XAVIER 
NOTRE DAME (85) 
Jac~son 9 6-10 24, Tripucka 8 4-5 20, Woolndge 5 2-3 12, Branning 7 0-0 14, Hanzlik 25-6 9, illlitchell1 0-0 2. Paxson 1 0-1 2, Varner 0 0-0 0 Andree 0 0-0 0 Salinas 1 0-0 2. Totals' 34 17-25. ' 
XAVIER (72) 
Massa 7 0-0 14, Hollins 5 0-0 10, Anderson 31-2 7, Walker 1 2-2 4, Hicks 9 2·4 20, (:hadwell 0 0-1 0, Dow 0 0-0 0, Hanley 5 7-7 17. Totals 30 12-16. 
Halftime -Xavier 36, Notre Dame 32. Fouled out -none. Total Fouls -Notre Dame 19, Xavier 20. A-8,184. 
[continued from page 12) 
chat it would be embarassing if we saw national headlines to­morrow that said Xavier beat Notre Dame,'-' Phelps related. "We just came out and domi­nated the boards and got our 
. . '' 
runmng game gomg. 
After the visitors had rattled 
off the first ten points of the 
half, coach Digger Phelps im­
plemented a zone defense that 
was non-porous. And that could 
only add insult to injury when 
you shoot 88 ~ercent fr~m the 
floor in a 20-ID1Dute penod. 
''I think the way we came o~t 
shootinc iil the second half 1s 
just an ~atioo.of.~ g~ 
we really • .alloot. . said 
Phelps, ~--~ lS ~ow
~ 
20-4. "I . • . .Ql>VIDUS nght now we,·· .. ,. ·the NCAA playoffs. ·we~ just. got,to 



CO-RI;.C RACQUETBALL 
-Interhall 
MEN'S RACQUETBALL DOUBLES Kirn·YQrdy (3670) v. Adams-Goyette(1183) Reagan-Wezdanko (8489) v. Dowd· Lynch-Lundgren (1185) v. Lorenzmi· Hawkeye
Brown-Dorney (6987) v. Onufer-Dawson (1295 
(:lisser (277-3845) Andrews (1623) · 
Myslieviec·Owens (1889) v. 
Onufer-Hatfield (2255) v. Vossberg-Butler-McDonnell (1166) v. Brown-Borger (4593) Gallagher (277.:0671) 
paces
HANDBALL WOMEN'S DOUBLES RACQUETBALL McAward·Basso (3231) v. Mylar-Hughes (3380)BurkP 11787) v. Snyder (?77·4327) Owe·ns·Kehoe (1884) v. O'Connor·Abt Vanderhoff-Yaung (1670) v. Payne­(6500) a' Brien (7791) State 
RA~EIGH, N.C. (AP)-Haweye
Molarity by Michael Molinelli 
W~nney score~ a ga!lle-high 26 pomts last mght m leadin~ BE~ 

DID ~1/ER GeT THE 

North Carolina State to a supn­
BEIN6 HERE 114 EN6L.AND! 

FEEUN6 THM nt~~A RlltCf' 

s~ngly easy 63-)0 victory over .AL-l.'THE: SJGHT5 ~D 
etgth-ranked ~onh Carolina in SfEIN6 U5 c:ETTIN6 PIHPED 
our "THERE" ~ ENiJDYS 
a key Atlantic Coast Conference basketball game. 
N.C. State built up a 36-30 lead over the first 20 minutes and was never seriously chal­lenged in the second half. 
SBP/SBVP elections set 
ACROSS 26 Expire 48 Luckless 13 Lost zest 
for Monday
1 Needlework 27 Radiation player 14 Symbol of with a unit 50 Small cake limpness 
motto 28 Indian 51 Took food 20 Fine French
The Daily Crossword 
Students are reminded that 
8 Intimidates carving 52 Contest porcelain 
v•>ting for the upcoming SBP/
14 Where today 30 Amount tor two 23 Factotum 
SBVP elections will be held
becOmes prOduced 54 Pick 25 Russian tomorrow 32 Past one's carefully refusal 
Monday. Voting hours in the 15 Bemoan prime 56 Send by sea 29 Horne on 
halls will be 11:30 a.m. to l:oo 
16 Interior 34 Hit by a 58 Long hike wheels 
p.m. and 5:00 to 6:30 p.m. 
curve of bOwman 60 Aesop's 31 Concept 
Oil-Campus students will vote 
an arch 36 Strong ape point 33 Spotted 
in th~.: Tom Dooley Room in the
17 Elite 38 Type of 61 House cubes school folding dweller 35 Retail 
LaFunune Student Center from 
II :11o a.m. to 3:30p.m. Seniors 18 Beer glass 42 Bullet residence 37 Shorteninggroup table 63 Change goods 
art· r~.:minded that they may 
19 Mope moodily measure 65 Main dish 39 Set tree 
vot<.: in the elections. 
21 Make a call 44 Right-hand 66 Hello girl 40 Teacher 
All off-campus students and 
22 Offered man 67 TV line 41 Not so 
all students intending to move 
a clue 45 Thin pattern rough 24 Bearing cracker 68 Purloiner 43 Short open 
ofT-campus next year are elig­
jackets 
ihle to vore for next year's DOWN 45 Profligate 
Off-Campus Commissioner.
Yesterday's Puzzle Solved: 
1 Capital one 
TIH: election will be held in the 
of Chile 46 Minerva, 
Tt>m Dooley Room from II :00
2 Goer to an Greek style 
a.m. to 3:.'>0 p.m.
affair 47 False moves 3 True worth 49 Fish that 4 Venus or, clings to 
Earth another 5 Cover 53 Speak words 6 Son of Seth 55 Certain 
•••more personals
7 Continuer train 8 Quench 57 Go separate 
Attention Notre Dame Student Body and the management of her favorite
thirst ways bar. back by popular demand-Sheilia9 Vehicle 59 Retained Callahan--will she outdo last year's10 In with 62 Maiden name performance? Hey, Sheilia meet you in© 1980 by Chicago Trlbune-N.Y. News Synd. Inc. 
11 Dwell word the bathroom--wear the shoes that I'llAll Rights Reserved 

2121 12 Involve 64 Majors 
recognize A friend who saw your 19th 
G1nny "august RA" Karle, Yes. we plan on having wild times 
nex: year. Yea roomiell
Lenten 
5.h Floor Flanner, Thanks for the good time Friday.
cct111pus Scripture Discussion 
4N Regina 
m1n1Stry Thurs. Feb. 21st 
Gm Rae. Hap Half Birth &31 JO,BA,TER
TODAY 6:15-7:15PM 
M11ni Pecyna, Te quiero. Secre: Admirer 
CRASH-
Badin Office 
Serious development reguarding your cover. Must make immediate con :act -·Advise. 
Agent Countdown 
Jane. Beth. Margaret. Ellen, Kelly, Ka:hy. Sara, Maria and Caroll ThE
r-iiVER CITY RECORDS--·· 
par;y was great, you are so sweet. Thanks for everything! I
I northern Indiana'a largest tecotd and tape 
Love. Marianne
I selection and concert ticket headquadett""l i. 
LTT.
I _­
I am gorng to winl Love. TBW
1 Q any album 01 tape 
Mike Ketly-
I 
I 
.. A direct relationship exists bet
limit one coupon per person 

ween the accuracy of an analytical
3/7/80.) 
measuremnt and the time and effo 
expended in its acquistion"
I 
-Douglas Skoog, Donald M West
I 18,000albums and tapes·tn stock .. 
Analytical Chemistry 
3rd Edition, pg 47
I 
ND;smcstudent checka accepted 
From one clumsy chemist to another 
P.S. Good luck on EMIL
J20.00 over purchase, amount 
mENDOZA'S GUITARS, REPAIRS,
RIVER CITYRECORDS 
ACCESSORIES 
1 mile north of campus
50970 v ....,.•...,..,..... ,.,."·'~,.,· 
272-7510' 
_·' _~ 
s....~3~m=:t=l•:•~n:Otdl~~=;;,;..~= 


• I
.. 
Thursday, February 21, 1980 · _t.>age 11 
All ~lassif!ed ads must be _received by 5:00p.m. , two days prior 
to th~ !ssue tn which the ad IS run. The OIIIII"VVr office will accept 
classtfteds Monday through Friday, 10:00 a.m. to 5;00 p.m. All
Classifieds class1f1eds must be pre-paid, either In person or through the mail. 
lost: 3-chain gold braclet. If found 
Keith UNCLES
Help' 1 Desperately need several Ga
please call 41·4146. Braclet has great
Notices 
Thanks a lot for your unexpected HAPPY BIRTHDAY American Gigll­
Marquelle tickets. Joe. 1644.
sentimental value. 
good dee-I owe you a million!! esse!! . We'll always remember youTuesday is ND-SMC Day at ~oyal TAB fondly for your words of wisdom, "The
Need Marquette tix. Call Kathy·-SMC
Valley Sld Resort! Z lor 1 liH tickets Los: Minolta SRT·HiOX camera and plural of spouse is spice!"
5135.
Min'ol:a atMflash. Hefty reward and ·
3-10 p.m., also Z lor 1 7-10 p.m. Debby and Timmy. Forever yours behind bars, 
M-Tu-Th. Z chair lifts CLOSEST SKI no dumb questions. Please call Mike at ..............•.........•...•.... . I'm still recovering from a FAN Murderer's Row6775.
AREA TO CAMPUS, Buchanan, Mich. TASTIC weekend-but at least I don'i 
Need 2Marquette GAs for my parents. ---------------~ 
have "green eye·· anymore.
Only chance to see an ND Basketball Tim "HUNKY''' Koch
New Jersey Club bus for Spring Break $5 dollar feward for the return of a 30 Thanks much,
game 1' ~ call bob 8538. Happy Birthday, most faithful one.
is now taking reservations. Call Chris inch t4K box ltnk chain. No questions Moosie
********************************* 
Hope you have a loose, lush, lusty
asked. Patty 4332 (SMC)at1178 or Kevin at 11661or more Info. 
night.
IT'S ALMOST TIME FOR THE AN
OSHKOSH paniers desperately need love and hugs,
Found:S11ver watch. Call 1078 to
Spnng Break: NUAL GREEN BEER CLUB MEEl
Marque:te tix.. call JCZ 234·6348. 
Mary and Sue
1den.1fy. Whi:ehall Inn, only $99. Orlve'n'sav.e 
Orive·n·save to Daytona & 'Stay at lNG. LOOK OUT!! 
Lost: Gold heart initials AH 11 $$$$SNeed many Marquette tix. call Have ~om for 3 or 4 people to go down
to F .. Lauderdale and stat Riveria. found An neue 0.
please call 3016 (Barna). John 7443 alter 6:30p.m.$$$$$$ to Florida in a van, Daytona or
only $109. Both hotels on the beach of Merci beaucoup une mille lois pour Je Lauderdale. Call 234-4985.
6 days/5 mghts--extra optional. Lim· temp fantaslique a hier samdi soir; j'ai
Fo;,d:-~~~~-;;;~~-ITK Please help! Parents coming to NO
1ed space. Information: call Ken at pense que le monde n'a plus eu les
"ar;y? C.all 8201 for them. and would love to see Marquette Attention long Islanders: long Island
283·1387 belles femmes. Aimerez·vous aller au
game. Good money for zGa's..Julie Club Meeting Feb. 27, Wednesday
c1nema ou jouer au raquetteballe avec
2194. Night at 6:30p.m. in Little Theatre of
Morrissey Loan Fund-N.D. stud· mo1 ce samd1 ou le semaine prochain? 
LaFortune
.en: loans. $20·$200. Due in one month. Hill
NEED many DePaul GA tix $$$ call
Tickets
One percent interest. Basement of 
8436 or 8437 after midnight. Marquard,
Lafonune. 11:30·12:30 M·F. last day T1m Ronan. 
That column was awesome, even
lor May grads to apply is March 14. Beer. drugs or. big bucks lor 2 GA HAPPY BIRTHDAY!'
MOney is no object need two Mar· god-like.
Depaul llckets. call Matt DeSalvo Lots of Love.
que::e GAs for Junior Parents week·
We rem dependable cars from $7.95 a 233·6090. Helen
end. call 8437 or 8436 after midnight. girl from the College,day and 7cents a m11e. Ugly Duckling 
---~----~-------There's nothing I wanted more for my
Ren:·A·Car. 921 E. Jefferson Blvd. S.uden: 11cke1 for Marquelt and De· WATCH ANNE O'ROURKE LOSE IT
2 Marque,le GAs needed. BIG BUCKS colleg T·sh1rl. I'll wear it witll pride.
M1st1. Ind. 255·2323. Paul for sale. Stan 1879. AT THE PUNK OUT HAPPY HOUR
call Clms 3302. Love.
FRI., 4-8 P.M., BRIDGET McGUIRES the man from the universitySALE on all books in 11ur literature Need one s:udent DePaul ticket. Any G'lod money tor 7 Marquetle tix. Call ---------------­
section. New and used tilles-25 pr1ce 11 calf l•m-8605. GOOSE, THANKS FOR THE FUN
Tom 8391 
Dear fellow hysterca I women (2KM &
percent off. Pandora's Books, 937 S. WEEKEND!! 
LKJ), 'passwnate Zahm people and
11end Av.e I need tickets for the DePaul game 1·4 HUFF
My fa:her needs a t1cket tor the 
f: mge (ever.body else(: WOW it was
erher s:udent of GA. will pay your 
DePaul game. Will trade my DePaul neat and I remain duly impressed: i
.p11ce. CaiiAI1156. To Mary. a blonde junior at SMC. I so
s.uden. llcke: and $5 tor a DePaul GA. 
owe you all a big hug and mega-thanksenjoyed the short time we -danceCali Whea. a: 1171. 
Have an ex1ra·n1ce day.
For Sale 
Need 2 Marquene tix. Bob1811. Thurs. night at Mardi Gras. You move so n1cely. l was holding money at ·a
-------~--------Still need 'em badly...GA or student Mike·Toots-J B·C upcake-Shoes-Reker,
FLASH: Pho.ographic equipment for Need 2 Marqueue and/or 2 DePaul black jack game when we mel. and
t1x for Marquette. Call John evenings · Happy very, very early and/or late ,
Sdl!!--lan:as:ic bargamst.·cameras. :1x. Call Cmdy 277·3540. would like to partner dance. Please cal.l
at 288-5891. . . 
birthday! !satisfied? 
l':'n!>tJS. Call 232·4129. B<Jb at 8217. 
MM&CMNeed .11x for Marquelle game. Pay 
W1ll ll ade 2 student DePaul tickets lor
;opSS$ Call 8959. DIAL·A-SPAZ call1228.
2 Qay:on GAs. Ca.ll Mark 8648 or ·John Tim 
8G46. 
Welcome back and .Happy Birthday
Wanted 
I need 2 GA uckets to DePaul game. Trish and Kurt: To see them Is to 
MOM
W11i pay your pnce. Anna (SMC) 5322. retch.
True Mega Bucks for DePaul GA 's. 
signed ZETO
R1de needed to Chicago-afternoon of You haveSSSSS$SSSS. Mick 8212. Scully. Fisher, Herbert and Hart 
March 5 Mark 4609. 
Need 1 MarqueHe GA Willing to trade Fri. and Sat9 p.m. to 2 a.m. at: 
s uden; ticket or pay$$. call 7921. CALL 41-4111 and wish Sue, a
Need GA DePaul tix. Call Cince 
LOUIS' "IRISH COUNTRY"beautiful SMC chick Happy Birthday.
Neeo rtde to s.. LoUts area weekend o· 3578/3591. S. Notre Dame Ave.
Waned: 1 GA ticket for the DePaul ---------------­
2 22 Calf V1v1an 277·47-84. 
game. Money's no object. Call Pat Job m:erviews going poorly? Be a
Helpl!Need 1 Marquette studen1 of S~evenson. Otfensive 1' Kevin. Robert,
8710. SS$$$ teacher. a f1reman. a press secretary,
need ride to Detroit area Feb. 29. Wil! GA badly. Kevin 1602. and Janet
or marry Kathy. (She looks great in 
pay. Call annette at 41-4111. P S. No, she wasn't there' 1 
Need 2·4 GA ·s to Marquelte or da• k sunglasses and a haLl Vote Janie
D.oPaul Trckets. 2 student Hx for Sale.
DePdul. Will pay good$$$$$$. Call Joe ,Byrne VP.
Ride needed to Miami of Ohio on Fri. 8858. 
To whoever left the Valentine's Day
a .3439.
Feb. ZZ. Call Mar., Kay 8145. Danish outside my door, many thanks
S:udents of Nb: and MAKE YOURSELF KNOWN
Despera:ely need 1·2 student tix lor S:ay off drug~. see what they did to
Need nde :o .OhiO S:ate U. or Toledo. 
Kate F.
Personals
Marque:;e. Call John 1143. me.
OH weekend ol feb. 22. Call maria 
Ke~Jy Cole
-692J. ---------~------J0hn Saigh is "Sigh... Be kind to
Desperately need two G A tickets to ammals. vote "Sigh" for UMOC.
Marquette, Dad's birthday SAturday SteveS. jalias Schmittsyj, Devon McFaddonNeed nde to. Buffalo or St. Bonaven· 
and I have no present lor him. Will Happy Belated Valentine's Oay!!!!!!!! Please. for my sake, just pretend it's
:\l•e any:1me l1sa 8144. 
FF.
:tade studen: 11cket lor Marquette and in the script. 
Are you going to tell your parents
tJepauf and$$$ or just$$$$. Call Marty Happy Birthday Julie OlingerllToo Wally (your husband)
OVERSEAS JOBS-Summer/year ·. at:Jou: your engagement? What's
1684. bad it isn ·,warmer oul-1 heard the laker•1und. Europe. S. Amertca. Australia, ... sqealy" .gonna do?
1s a good t1me on b·daysll GH IS A BETTER SOAPII'!!
A>~a. E.c. All l1elds.. $500·1.200 mon. 
DT
need 2 Ga tickets for Marquette. Call 1011 crowdE~nses pa1d. Sightseeing. Free info. 
Dave at 8696 or 8697. Billy Kruse:
w;t.e l.·JC BIJx 52·14. Corona Del Mar. 
An FM .315 revival? Anything isYes--You can be a part of An Tostal. Where's the picwre you promised
Ca 92625. ----------~~----poss1ble tonight at Sorin.
Need 1 Marquette GA 1ix call Mike at Organizational meeting Sunday, Feb. me? rm still waning. My walls are 
lli27. 24th-·7 p.m. in Lafortune theater. No oare. See you in March. Tell Mom to
ONE fEMALE WANTED IN CAM 
SARAH KUNST-
experience necessary. send (·Jf bring) chocolate chip cookies.
PUS VIEW APARTMENTS $1??/mon. 
Piease call you old roommate--just to
Need 4 Marquette tickets. friends from · Love
tAll ANNE 7884. . 
say HI & catch up on the gossip. Hope
Indy HAVE to see an NO game. Ralph SUMMER TRAVEL IN EUROPE. Margaret all is well.
7'!12 LONDON PROGRAM· With travel in
J need a nde lO Atlanta at Spring -~--------------us
11 eland. Scoiland. England and France Everyone young and old should put "AB eal<. Call Bndge: 8056. 
Need Marquette >.udent and GA tix. ROME PROGRAM with travel in little Romance" in their lives. Fri. 
B111 Roche,
L1!1 C• a1g at 3403. France. Germany. Switzerland and 2·22 and Sal. 2·23 7.9.11 Carroll Hall
I need a rtde from Wes: Palm Beach Congratula1ions.I 1(Belter late than
l.aly. College courses available in (SMC)
a ed af:er t:Jreak. Call Brjdget 8056. never · 
Wanted: 2GA Marquelle tickets.Name EDUC. Hiswry, Italian. Soc. and 
yaUI price. 282·1734. after 6 p.m. 111s ory. For tnfor call Prot A. R. Black Wilbur-Thanks tor being a neato
rw~) FLOC larmworkers need ride to 
In honor of the Madman. Peter
SMC 4948 or at home 272·3726. person. Love ya.
F Lauderdale for spnng harvest. Will Johnson's 19:h birthday 315 Sarin 
Slid• eexpenses and driving. Call Steve Help We are in dire straits. Need --------------. Yourchocah~~ Buddy w111 do it again Fri. night.
mdny GA or student tix lor Marquette HAPPY BIRTHDAY SUSIE!!!!
a 1062. 
game Call Dan 8998 or Mike 3406. LOVE* ANNETTE AND NANCY SMC B·BALL TEAM--GOOD LUCK!!! 
Lisa. 
Need nde to PHtsburgh weel<end of A very late Valentine's personals­I need many Marquette b·ba!l tix. Call Pu. a lntle romance in your life. Ma• 1anne.
2 lB. Please call 8155. 
jus: to say I love you . 
.1111 8693. Ven:ure over to Carroll Hall (SMC) N1ce p1cture. Love that SEXY tongue 11 
Margaand see .. A Lillie Romance .. Fr1. Sat Room Service
F.1end hom home needs rtde to Notre 
D,une from Miam1 of Ohio any 
I need ostudent llckets to Marquette 7.9, 11 p.lll. 
Flsllef-­
weekend. If ycJU can help please call b1g $$$$$. Please call Joe 8192. l•J tile unkown Kazoo band. I love you Records are made to be broken 1 41 ~7t0. 
Ex1le under the Llama Acl of 1976. guys. Thanks 
Tilanks for t11e F1esta SAturday n1ght'
I need 2 GA's to Marquelle game. Will Boliv•a·s Grossest National Product is Love from your favorite 
pay your pr1ce. Anna (SMC) 5322. here. Pablo is d1sgust1ng To the most beautiful SOH checker.
Wan.ed Pas. se:s of M1cro Econ 224 Conon·eye·Joe dancers
Here is your personal I missed on De>pera:ely need DePaul student and CULP GULP CULP GULP CULP GULP Valentme·s Day. Will you go out with exdms. Call Mark 3805. 
Joel Hamngton. former AQ and
GAs. Call Leo 1871 me? 
WALO eX1raord1na1re sa1d.
Have you been to the Commonwealth The Sparkle Top Admirer Need 1 DePaul llx Ga or student. Call ye,?
Lost&Found 
New Jersey Club bus for Spring break
Ke1 ry 7873 CULPIES UNITE-CALL 501 Grace to 
1s now tak1ng reservations. Call Chris
Charles '·Hollywood" Dyer for UMOC jo1n the fan club. 
at 1178 or Kevm at 1166 for More Info.
RICH graduate '61 needs DePaul tix Chucky is Yucky Found on N.D Ave. near Goose's. 
Found: 10K gold rmg. Says FME 1980. 
161 Call 272-5744. Adnmee. 
Mark.
H1 Mom. Dad. Bob. Steve and Sam I. was a tough decision but I'm gladPlease cla1m in Manager's offlce in Snuggle up and get some rest•
Need 3 Marquette GA: !lx ANY pr1ce. At least I wr1te in the personals· I made i1. Red is nice but you're nicer. Call Dave 1133. more fun to read than letters Your secret adm 1rer 
Lafortune. 
Bob. 
Los:: A heavy. rust-red wmter jacket we·ve taken the liberty of s1gn1ng
!rom Mardi Gras. Rewara. Tom·181t Need llx to the Marquette game on the Lookmg fo1 tun?? Join our ski trip to JAF and Mark. 
you up for Bengals Conrats 1 on a
24 11 oi Feb. GAs please. Mike 8501. Boyne Mtn.:llmHed spaces available-­Thanks for saying it with flowers. 
successful Mam1 Gras.
EAH hood and is lined wttl\ fuc Missing 
Los:. a hght·be•ge suede Jackel has a only twerliy leftlfCall John at 3235. A concerned member of the fam11v
W1ll pay MEGA $$$$ for 2 GA !rom Keenan-Walsh booth at Mardi· Marque~te llckets. Karen 6798 SENIOR CLASS PUNK OUT HAPPY GO'!! NO HOCKEY 
Gras Saturday mghl. will ol1er $30 HOUR AT BRIDGET'S FRI. FEB 22 feward lor its return. Call Ruben any MUST HAVE DA YTQN TIX...THIS IS 4-8 p.m. Does your roomate look like something ume at 3273. 
AN AWAY GAME. PLEASE HELP. 11om John Gacy"s basement? Nomin· 
41-5710. NANCY CULP IS A SEX GODDESS . a:e them for UMOC Lost. Calculator: Texas instruments SR 5t·ll Kevin (7374}. 
Need two DePaul Gas. Call Lisa Yess-you can be a part of An Tostal!! Don': let her fool you. Vicki Merten· 4t·4217. Share in the wildest, zaniest, craziest sollo is a killer at racquetball! Lost: Brown suede coat with hood. lost 
adventure of Spring semester. Organ­Sat. 01ght at Mardi Gras. Pockets 
Need 2 Ga Marquette tix. Nick izational meeting Sunday, Feb 24th 7 contained keys. money and glasses. 
233·6249. p.m in LaFortune Theater. EVERY' Please call Dave al 1177. 
. _. ONf. WELCOM.E~..NJLeJ!periel!ce. nee-. • essary. See you there!l! 


Thursday, February 21, 1980 -page 12 
Talent runs in Paxson clan 
CINCINNATI ·John Paxson says he learned quire a bir of what he knows about basketball from his brother. His older brother, Jim, that is Frank (same last name, of course). 
You may remem~er Ji_m Paxson as a four year 
LaGrotta 
starter for the Untverslly of Dayton basketball Sports Writer team. A consensus Ali-American who could have (and very likely should have) written a book on 1000 diff~r~nt ways to score· points from the thing. I mean, I gave him advice when h~ a'>ks guard postttoll, Jtm Paxson wound up as a rookie for H, but I wanted the derision robe his alone guard for the NBA ·s Portland Trail Blazers. He U1g brother rhtnks that John made the righc
.Votrc Dume 's Trucy juckson [far Paxson bat-
was the twelfth pick in the draft. one.
t/.: for u reboundlast night. jackson s 24 points ledthe ln'sh 
The whole draft. .. .. Notre Dame has a great basketball program,
to un 85 72 victory over Xavier in Cincinnati. [photo by Doug 
I f!!ean, how many players from Dayton wind great acadernrcs, and .John will get great
Christian] _ 
up m the NBA, let alone as the twelfth pick in exposure," says Paxson. "Playing ar Notre the draft? Dame w1ll be a rhallenge for John, bur it will be Many people. think that he should have gone good for him, and I think he will handle it well."
Second halfsurge 
htgher. Espeoally those who saw his perfor­_Paxson, w_ho recently scored 2_1 points against mance agamst Notre Dame last season when he Sa~l D1ego rn a reserve role, rhmks the brggest hit 12 of 19 shots (and all eight free throws, by adjustment between college ball and money ball
leads Irish to 20th win 
the way) to s~ore 32 points and ~ingle-handedly 1s mental. keep Dayton m a ballgame they dtdn't belong in. · "h)r me, coming off the bench was a new
Furthermore, a heavy fog 
It was, perhaps, the best performance against expenence," he r.dates_. "I.'ve had a lor of ~:~ps
by Paul Mullaney along the Ohio River Valley 
the Irish all year. and downs, but I m adJUSting well and findtng
Assislunt Sports Editor prohibited the ream's post­
Maybe the best in a long, long time. m~-role with the ream.'' 
game charter flight from get­"Senior year I had a lot of freedom," laughs In fact, he thinks his rookie year with rh•· CINCINNATI -Even though ting off the ground. That forced . ~axson when re~mded o( that game. "Things Blazers parallels John's Notre Dame premiere.
Notre Dame's 85-72 victory the squad to bus into South JUst cl1cked that ntght, unttl I got my fourth foul .. Adjusting to a new style of play and a nev over Xavier here last night Bend early this morning, while W:J.th r~me minutes left in the game. role personally," he says. "It was all new to me won't draw any banner head­the Notre Dame cheerleaders .. I trted to be lo':V key in every game," he adds. and I wish I had gone through the whole thing inlines in today's newspapers, it and others in the parry remain­I have to admtt, though, that playing Notre college to prepare me better for it. Next year, was hardly a typical evening of ::d even later to search for Dam_e was always the high point of our season John wrll play more, and little by little he'll getcollege basketball -at least for possible transportation. · ~n~ 11 was ~. big thrill when we bear them my to do his thing on the court. 
the Irish. And all of thaqhappened after JUIItor year. "See, John's pretty much a natural. I played aFor starters, Notre Dame's an outclassed Musketeer squad 
Imagine, then, his chagrin when he learned of lot with him when we were younger, but I Kelly green road uniforms and held a 36-32 halftime lead oYer brother John's decision to play his college wouldn· t say ~ taught_ him anything. Anythingwarmups mysteriously disap­the tenth-ranked Irish. 
basketball at Notre Dame. John accomphshes wtll be because he workspeared from the ACC over the That, for Notre Dame, was "Not at all," emphasized Paxson before last very hard and has a lot of talent.'' 
weekend. when the game started. The night's game. "In fact, I stayed out of the whole Which, by the way, runs in the family.
The result? Two reams wear­Irish came out of the locker­ing home uniforms, and a room with more than blood in morley-looking Irish crew, don­their eyes. 
In medals round 
ned m football warmup tops. They hit 15 of their first 16 Secondly, in anticipation of an second-half field goal attempts, upcoming rodeo, various ani­and outscored Xavier, 20-2, in 
U.S. icers to clash UJith Soviets 
mals were hiding throughout the first seven-and-a-half mi­the confines of the Riverfront nutes of the stanza. 
LAKE PLACID, N.Y. (AP) · Germany and advanced to the ~tso, in other OlympicColiseum. That left an odor that "I told the team at halftime The United Sr<ttes hockey ream medals playoff. The American actton:
resembled anything but pop­
came from behind last night for team, which finished second in corn, cotton candy, or beer. 
[continued on page 9] a 4-2 victory over West· the Blue Division, will play the Beth Heiden, overshadowed powerful Russians in the first by her brilliant brother, Eric, round of the medals playoff. won her first medal of the 1980 Rob McClanahan scored 'rwo Winter Olympics yesterday, goals and Dave Christian had capturing a rhtrd place bronze 
three assists in the American in· the women's 3000-merer victory. The United States had speed skating. 
DePaul.· ''long-awaited heroes'' 



been assured of aplayoff spot 
She was timed in 4 minutes,
even before the team took the 
33.77 seconds, finishing behind
ice. It was locked up in
CHICAGO -The only thing missing were the 
Norway's Bjoerg Eva Jen:;en,
Sweden's 4-2 afternoon de­
noisemakers and the streamers. 
the gold medalist, and Savine
Down in Chicago's Lincoln Park section, under 
cision over Czechoslovakia. 
Becker of East Germany, who
the roof at Alumni Hall on the campus of DePaul Sweden finished first in the 
rook the silver.
Blue Division.
University, there was a/arty gomg on. Some 
Gary
5300 Chi-towners roare in unison as if Guy 
Lombardo had just kicked in the New Year with a 
Grassey
rendition of"Auld Lang Syne." DePaul's Blue Demon basketball ream had won 
Belles begin tourney 
another ballgame and the Windy City fans 
Aguirre for the first six u1inutes because of a
gathered in their cozy little gym on the Near 
swarming Bulldog defense. The sag on Aguirre
Norrh Side were paying tribute to some 
left some gaping holes, however, and 6-9 senior The last time we played them
long-awaited heroes. 
Jim Mitchem took the opportunity to fire in some we played them Nelson had 25
And while Chicago awakened from the slumber by Beth Huffman 
uncontesr~ jumpers that sent the Blue Demons Wo(nen 's Sports Editor points and Reed had 21,"
of so many decades of listlessness from their 
on the wa~ to their 22nd victory without a loss. rdlects Dallessio. ''Nelson got
( :ubs, their White Sox, their Black Hawks and all 
"Ifyou take away one thing," maintained)oey Sa1111 Mar¥'s begins action in Ill toul trouble early before. but
the rest, DePaul's Blue Demons continued their 
Meyer, '' tH~ other part of ~he offense is going to the Division Ill state basketball I expeu her to be tough. We'll
wtnning ways with a remarkable mix of city-bred 
take ·over.I The kids know that if they're t11urnarhent ~cmighr as the \'lavt· to keep her in check on the
streetball plarers and a Grand Old 'Man who 
never lets his "boys" stray too far from his J\\ppo);ing dt-fenses) going to sink in on _A~uirr~: Belles take on Mand1esrer Col-rl'bounding, she could really guilding reins. ' 1 .. ,die•shots ar~ gotng to come from a certain spo~. lc:ge lin the initial round ~i' hun us there." 1 Pflint guard Clyde Bradshaw has a knack' for d1.,1ril 1 play. Oarne rime for the The Belles, (oming off a
There's nothing esoteric a,bout DePaul's game 
tinding those spots with his peek-a-boo passes.· match at Tri-Slate Universitv in t11ugh -;"1-70 loss on Tuesday to
They'll press you, they'll run with you, and 
·And when Bradshaw hits that open man, Angola is 5 p.m. · IUPU. wrll encounter a defen·
they' II try to shove the ball dc•wn your throat 
·~g~irre will rell you, "\Y/e pump it in 'em. 1 o.:ivel~· tough opponent squad
w1th a weapon tailed Aguirr.e..\nd they~ve got 
.. '"You can't 'be afraid or go out there with any The Belles. 'rvpped the team .. rher h,1ve a good man to
all the confidence of a Soviet tank commander 
. kind of negatiVf thing on your mind. If you go 0 from North Nl'anchester twice man dt:fen--e, ·· the Saint
beating up on art t\fghan ~efugee. 
fot• ~0 roday-fine, ~mu shot good shots. Nobody during the njgular se"son of :\fan··-; head mach. "We had
"We're·very simglisric," notes assistant coach 
on our team is afraid to do anything." pl<j~.~; with a d1.ctsivewin in the trouble with ir. before. The key
.J ot·y Meyc:r, son ··ofheachnentor Ray. "We don't 
·"fhey know ,what the~1. c:an get away with. yet 1h'mtington Invitational and a tu the game will definately be 
wam ro confl!se ,ktf.s : _l')~l 'not ever saying that 
\. he has 'control over the:n so that thev' te !)or -2-6-win at Manchester. PUr dden~e and our abilitv lO
rht· k1ds art-dumb. w~ JUSt want rh~m to be able 
1 rynning wild . 1 :. 'i C11ach jerry_ Oall'essio is op­g11 to the boards.·· · 
til a~.t on in~tillllt,: w~ dqn''l want no have them 
' ."J ~hwk one of the ke,;-s tvas after rhe Northern 111nisric about' the .game, but Samt ;\far~··s, a young sguad
.,toppitlg and. rMn4<.ing. 1I · 
. ,. lllinios g'ame," 'recalls rhe younger [vteyer. "We ~tresses that ~lanchesrer can­lwsr1ng seven treshmen. two
l'ht· b1ggest ft~hldm'-fa~ing · ~ $1ue Demon 
,really played terrible 'bur. got _lucky en~mgh tp not he raken too lightly. The sophomores. a Junior and one 
oppuncnr, is n&r: tisoqr.r\trlg D~Paul' s artF!ck, 
I Wtr). fh_a,t s when we hat! a, l_mle rnee~1 ng and &·lies· opponen~s sport a taL o;cniPr boast an even 11-; l 
:at her. tt s a m~~!e . 'of Je'p~·tng jNHar rhey throw 1 1 
I ~al~ we ve got to· loosen them up a bu. I ream arilf the 4econd vear re>.:L•rd heading :mo the tourn­
.tt t•z·ery•o'ne onlfne 'Sl!hedule. · . . 
· II 'G~tting rhe ball inro AgUirre was, rhe watch-rnentur .i.t S'.amt \ .'v1ar•/ s {eels ameht. The top rwo reams rn
Ma_rk 1\gume IS~h~ f'fn~hise a~ 6-7 with his 26 
' . worl.l t1r~m Rar Meyer ~nd Joey rhoug.ht. "lt rrt· boards ;Wril .be the key ro ead1 of; Indiana'-; two disrncts
POtnts per gam~,. :B~r ~~l/f: Jest _of th~ squad car 
be JUSt as lerh<~l asil!Jle ;burly torward. · , ~ot,ld rake a_way, from .t~e etfec~1v~ness ?,f th~ ttf\1!ghr'--; g"111e. · . l 1 · writ adv:ance ro the state compe·
1 tit ion w be hdd at Sa111t Mary ·s
Witness the fir~t ~;al_q,>Ciasr Sarurday against ·, I [.rqntmzua o0_/1 page 9] . ~elsop ~~-1) rs.lrqall>: good 
on !february 29 on and' March :.
Butler. DePa~;,~ 
1 d~r \get .the ball ·near 1 · · · ;~ri tll<;Jr guard. ~el'd, ts rpo. 
I
I 
·.j'• 
i
•'I .'/ .: 
I . • I ;•, I' · . .i.\ 
t ' . ' •t .~ ~ I. . . ; . •. t t ~ :. • 
. ., ' ' . 
. .... 




