
VOL. XV, No. 61 an independent studem newspaper serving notre dame and saim mary's THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 20, 1980 
ND owes city not to hold 
' 
death march: Roemer 
by Kelli Flint Senior Staff Reporter 
Dean of Students James Roemer issued a statement yesterday afternoon advising seniors against participating in Friday's senior death march through the five-points area of South Bend. 
Roemer notes in the statement that the Senior Class is participating in the march despite the University's request that this march not be allowed to take place. He adds that the City will pay police overtime to bring a large number of police officials into the northeast neighborhood on Friday afternoon. 
Roemer also warns that arrests will be made for violations of Citv ordinances, for blocking traffic, public intoxication, public ii1 ·-decency, etc. The police department will deliver copies of these reports-to the University and the University will take appropriate and serious disciplinary action against those students involved. Those students will face not only University sanctions but also criminal justice sanctions. 
"The northeast neighborhood was incensed after the Alabama celebration," Roemer said. "This is absolutely the wrong time for the Senior Death March. 
"The student vandalism may have been exaggerated, but it was still a problem. Students were cooperative about cleaning up the mess after their exhuberance. 
"My concern involves the effect that the students' Alabama celebration had upon the neighborhood. The people who have stabilized that neighborhood have pleaded with us not to have the Senior Death March. We owe it to the community not to inflict the 
Election today Senior Death March upon them." "The University and student leaders have pleaded with the city for additional crime protection and that was received. It is an insult to the City to march in numbers into that community and cause the Police Department this type of

Senate candidates outline plans 
problem," said Roemer. Members of the Senior Advisory Council responded to Roemer's
By Tim Vercellotti 
Holy Cross, Carroll, .Sorin, in a position to ask for such .statement at a SAC meeting last night. SAC members MarybethSmior Sttif.f Reporter Walsh, and Alumni-as "cam­things as a student on the Board Marx, Tim Ronan, and Chris Nunnelley organized the march.

pus-oriented." of Trustees. I'd rather invite According to Nunnelley, the route for this year's march willStudent Body President Paul The second district, which them to a meeting of the senate exclude most of the northeast neighborhood. "Last year the Seniors 
Riehle's plan for a new student consists of Stanford, Keenan, 
to show them what is going on," 
marched to Gooses, which was in the northeast area, Nunnelley said.
senate comes to fruition today as Farley, Breen-Phillips, Tighe stated. 
"Since Gooses is now closed, this year's route will be from Eddystudents take to the polls for the Cavanaugh and Zahm halls, will Tighe also considers the lack of straight to Corby's. There is little residential area on the route that wefinal time to decide who will choose between Hans social space as a problem, as well will be covering. We will avoid the northeast neighborhood."
represent them in the advisory Hoerdemann, a Keennan soph­as overcrowded conditions in the Marx noted that the march is not intended as a protest against the 

body. Student apathy, lack of omore, and Frank Tighe, a junior social space, and the abolition of from Zahm. Claiming that there (continued on page 31 (continued on page 4] the Campus Life Council make are "many issues that remain 
1p some of the issues that the unnvoiced in the Noth Quad," .mdidates are concerned with in Hoerdemann cited the consoli­the five district races. dation ofpower in the senate as a 


Eskitnos fight for tnineral rights 
The contenders in district one priority when the body con­are Jim O'Neill, a sophomore venes. "We need to make it a from Sorin, and Bob Helle, a strong student governing body," the revenues from natural re-strongly as masters of their own
senior who resides in Alumni. Hoerdema,nn said. By CharlesJ Hanley house.
O'Neill outlined his main ob­Associated Press Writer sources.
Hoerdemann's other objec­The greatest share ofCanada's But northerners familiar withjective as the increase in student tives include an investigation 
awareness of how their govern­into the Hammes Bookstore, YELLOWKNIFE Northwest I oil and gas revenues goes to the the traditional federal attitude Territories (AP) _ The Eskimos '. ten provincial governments be­toward the region believe
ment operates. "Students do not aimed at finding out where the of Canada's far north those cause the national constitution Ottawa will balk at relinquishingunderstand the importance of profits go and the process by inoffensive curiosities 'of old makes the provinces owners of control, at least over historicallythe senate. We need to show which prices are established. 
travelogues, are barging into the their resources. uninhabited islands.
students that the body is a tool Also, Hoerdemann WOI..\ld like to "Think of it-40 percent ofCanadian consciousness. ------------­that we should work with," explore the possibilties of im­
O'Neill explained. He also ex­They want a piece of the THURSDAY::::::::::::::::::::::::::: Canada's resources are believed
proving the recreational facilities to be in the Northwest Terri­pressed a desire to continue work for interhall sports; construction 
~~~;~~-:~~ :~~~t ~ft~7r~ ~~t::e ~===:::=:::::::=:=:FOCUS tories, and the federal govern­
on Riehle's proposal to transfer of a new student center,. or ment is going to begin giving itthe legislative power of the CLC renovations of LaFortune; and country. 
up?" asked one official, who
to' the senate. an increase of student input into "As an aboriginal people we have a right to control over our But the Northwest Territories asked not to he named, inCLC reforms are also part of the Board of Trustees. 
resources," said Michael are federally administered-a Yellowknife, the NWT admini­Helle's campaign. Noting that Responding to charges that his Amarook, paramount leader of "colony," say its residents. The strative center.
the legislative power lies with the plans are unrealistic, . the Canadian Eskimos, or federal government in Ottawa The Northwest Te1ritories·CLC, Helle plans to work to-. Hoerdemann explained that "Inuit," which means "the makes all decisions on resource legislative council votedwards the placement of senators "You have to set your sights high 
people." development and collects all November 5th to hold a on the council, and the eventual to achieve palpable successes." 
The issue is urgent for the royalties from production. Territories-wide plebiscite in late removal of administration of­Hoerdemann cited his service Northwest Territories' 18 ooo Th Inuit want to negotiate 1981 or 1982 on whether aficials from the body. Helle also as a Keenan hall section leader Inuit as the energy indust;y is establishment of a Nunav~t Nunavut should be sliced offsupports the institution ofsecret and financial commissioner for moving toward commercial ex--government that would share m from the NWT. The idea appearsballoting during council meet­the Keenan Revue as qualifica­ploitation with the oil that has resource wealth. The more am­_to have strong support among
ings. tions for holding the office. 
been under the Arctic's islands bitious envision a Nu~avut of the 48,000 people of this nor­"If I was a faculty represen­Gaining respect for the senate 
and icy seas. some 750,000 square m1les, all of thern region -native and non­tative without tenure, I'd think from students and administrat­The Inuit say they are not the Northwe~t Territories north native alike. 
twice about voting against the ors is the primary goal of Frank trying to secede from Canada of the treehne, the boundary But the council has no realadministration," Helle stated. Tighe, who is opposing Rather, they want to establish ~ between the forest and the power, and the plebiscite will not
Helle cited his four years at Hoerdemann in the district two 1 
homeland within the Canadian treeless plains called tundra. This be binding. The final say restsNotre Dame as a qualification for race. Tighe proposes to achieve conft;deration, a place they will w~uld equal abou.t 40 square with the Parliament in Ottawa.
holding a seat in the senate. "I've this goal by"showing people that call 'Nunavut" which means mtles for every Inutt. The Canadian Inuit were once seen the apathy, and I've tried to we (the senate) care about Notre 
"our land." ' . Some Inuit even talk of scattered across the top ofNorthdevelop ideas on how to combat Dame." 
They hope this will give them provincehood for Nunavut by America in small groups ofit," Helle explained. Tighe views the achieving of what every other Canadian has . the end of the century, a move nomads who survived by huntingHe termed the needs of his this respect as more feasible than the right to a more direct share i~ that would establish them more [contimud on page 3]district-made up of St. Ed's, his opponent's plans. "We're not 

----_..... 
-~---~ 

NewsBriep 
Thursday, November 20, 1980-page 2 
Inside Thursday 
'Dewey defeats Truman?' 
by The Observer and The Associated Press 
A Catholic woman youth leader confronted PopeJohn Paul IT after an outdoor mass in Munich yesterday, attacking "too many prohibitions" in church teachings on sex and the Vaticans confining role for women. The pontiff sat six feet away with bowed head and clasped hands, and did not respond when she had finished. Barbara Eng!, 29, local chairwoman of the League ofGerman Catholic Youth, lectured the pope in front of an audience of a half million greeters just a few hours before he departed for Rome. She told the pope in a clear, steady voice that"youths' questions on friendship, sexuality partnership are often answered with prohibitions rather than understanding." Eng!' asserted that young people failed to understand the church"because it clings fearfully to the status quo" on matters ofsex, marriage, priestly celibacy and the role ofwomen. The pontiffdid not respond to the public criti.:ism. Engl told reporters her remarks reflected discussions by the leaders ofthe youth league, "andI believe my comments represent the feelings ofits members." Her group is one of the largest Catholic organizations in West Germany, a country of about 23 million Catholics. 
An American POWw~s struck by a fellow prisoner, marine Pfc. Robert Garwood, without provocation while the two were confined ip. a Vietnammmese jungle camp, an Army soldier testified Wednesday during Garwood's court-marshall on desertion charges. Sgt 1st Class Jsiah McMillan toldajuryoffiveofficers that Garwood, who was a prisoner in Vietnam for 14 years, struck Army Pfc. David Harker a backhanded blow to the ribs. "He hit him a sucker punch," said McMillan, a career soldier now stationed at Fort Gordon, GA. "That's a quick, short punch, but you don't want any one else to see it. McMillan was the third former prisoner of war to testify in the trial of Garwood, an Indiana native charged with desertion, collaberation, abuse offellowprisoners and attempting to persuade oth'er Americans to surrender to the Vietnamese. Ifconvicted, Garwood, 34, could be sentenced to life in prison and forced to forfeit $143,000 in back pay accumulated during his time in Southeast Asia. 
President-elect RonaldReagan played the role yesterday of a Very Important Tourist, dining in a famous Senate hearing room with his Republican allies and telling them "we have a mandate not so much:... to govern as a mandate to serve." "The people ofthis country have told us, all of us now, they want something different. They want a change. They want an America that serves them," Reagan said. He promised, in an apparent break with tradition in which presidents visit Congress only for formal speeches, to travel up Capitol Hill for consultations Kennedy, who had asked for a private meeting with Reagan, said the discussion touched on the economy and the need to eliminate government waste. He also said he expressed "full support'' for Reagan's efforts to reach a strategic arms ,agreement with the Soviet Union, 
The word "Mr." has been banished from the Supreme Court's vocabulary, at least when used in front of the word "Justice." According to court employees, the court's nine justices have ordered that the traditional "Mr. Justice" designation be changed in all court opinions, inter-office memoranda and correspondence to just plain "Justice." Thus, for example, reference to Mr. Justice Brennan has become Justice Brennan. The justices did not explain why thGy decided on the lessthan-momentous change. But it surely will make things less complicated whenever the first female justice is appointed to the court. 
Despite Church~ disaporoval a black Roman Catholic priest in Chicago says lte will adopt a black child to dramatize a growing need for their placement in adoptive or foster homes. The Rev. George Clements, 48, who has 4,000 parishioners in his predominantly black congregation at Holy Angels Church on the South Side, said through a spokesman that he formally will announce his plans to become an adoptive father at a public meeting in his church this . evening. Until then, Clements, well-known as a civil rights activist, was in seclusion, deep in meditation and prayer and unavailable for comment, spokesman George O'Hara said yesterday. A statement from the Chicago archdiocese, the nation's largest, f>raised Clements personally but gently ex­pressed its disapproval ofthe adoption. Don Schlosser, head of community relations for Illinois Children and Family Services, said: "We have single adoptjve parents. And we've been 
involv:ed with Father Clements in his effort to make his pari~·Honers know about adoption and the need for it. But his plan to adopt a child comes as a surprise." Schlosser said that in the Chicago area, 480 children were currently legally free for adoption, of whom 280 were black. Hundreds more are under some kind of state supervision and ultimately will be targeted fo~ adoption. 
Generally mild today with little or no precipitation. Lows m the 30s and highs in the 40s and 50s. 

· 
For those of you who missed it, Friday's Chicago Tribune ran a small but t-ye-opening item at the top· ofits early edition sports pages. The headlii).e read, Devine will stay, and the four-sentence story was copyrighted, but carried no byline. Itsaid thatDan Devine will be returning as head coach of the football team next year. 
A portion of the text read as follows: "The decision is to be announced after Notre Dame plays Alabama. Saturday in Birmingham. Devine plead (sic) for his job back Tuesday evening in a lengthy meeting with university vice president the Rev. Edmund P. Joyce." 
In Alabama, both Devine and Joyce issued furious denials. Devine outlined his travel schedule for January as proof that he wasn't returning, and both men said the Tuesday meeting was held to discuss bowl bids and other trivial matters. Charges ofirresponsible journalism were rampant Joyce was particularly irate over the use ofthe word "plead," calling it"demeaning to a fine man" and "peculiar journalism:" Needless to say, Devine did not announce his return after the game. 
So why did the Tribune, and specifically sports writer David Israel, publish this "hot-off-the presses" scoop, apparently without substantia­tion? Devine's return was little more than a persistent rumor, but according to Joe Doyle, sports editor of the South Bend Tribune, "there was substance to that rumor." 
Members ofThe Obsert'er sports staff knew ofthe rumor, but could find no solid backing and decided to ignore it. It was not a new rumor, but Doyle noted that "last week, suddenly there was a change," perhaps due to Devine's meeting with Joyce. Doyle said that Israel "probably got this (news of the return) from a reliable source, someone he had confidence in who told it to him as fact, and who had provided accurate information before." ­
The Chicago paper tried to confirm the report with ND officials before press time, according to a Saturday article on Devine's denials, but was told "they wer~ all at a pep rally." Doyle pointed out that there were two other people who could have "steered them away"-Sports Editor George Langford and respected Columnist David Condon. 
Langford's phone, unfortunately, was in­operable Thursday night, and Condon was in Tuscaloosa, on his way to Birmingham for the game. Condon said in retrospect, "I don't think I would have pushed it (the story) through so fast," and later added, "I would have played this a little closer to the vest." But Condon steadfastly stated, "I'll still stand by the story and stand by the reporter. He may be wrong, but I'll still stand by him." \ 
Why didn't Doyle go with the rumor also? "Well, I've been here for 30 years, 28 withJoyce and six different coaches, and I have a feel for that type of thing. Israel has not been experienced to that degree jn many things." Doyle also noted, 
~The_Ohs.etY-er_ Old TV Shows Never Die Design Editor .................. . Steve "Thrillseekers" Swonk Dt•sigtl Assts. ........ , .......... . Anne "My Mother the Car" Fultz Deirdre "Twilight Zone" Murphy Tom "Shindig" O'Connor DayjNigbt Techs...... ................ , . Bruce "What's My Line" Oakley Pat-"Hawaian Eye"-City News Edrtor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .... Margie .. Petticoat Junction" Brassil Clanifieds. .................. Anne Fultz Typrsts ............•.. .~ .............. . Suzy "Ryan's Hope (ain't old!) Sul•!ntic Cindy "Johnny Quest" Jones ND Day Edrtor ....................... . Pam "My Three Sons" Degnan Photographer .......................... . Tim "You Bet Your Life" McKeor,h Joining m... ... Mark "Lone Ranger' Rust Mike "Gunsmok.e" Cunyngham Brian " The Fugitive " Gary Ryan "Captain" Video Tim "Man from UNCLE" Neely Molly "Get Smart" Woulfe  
The Observer (USPS 598 920) Is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer ls8ubllshed by the students of Notre arne and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $20 per year ($10 per semester) by writing The Observer, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 465~. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. The Oburver Is a member of the Associated Press. All reproductionrights are reserved.  

Tom Jackman 

"David's not apt to have reliable sou,rces down 
here. He operates differently." 
But neither Doyle nor Condon see the story as irresponsible journalism, and-some background is necessary toexplain their reasoning. According to inside sources, Dan Devine was fired last summer, and allowed to resign whenever he wished to make the announcement. That is why Israel used the verb "plead" (it should have been''pleaded") in his story-Devine wants to stay, the University doesn'.t want him. 
The rumors of the coach's return were 

perpetuated by several factors: the University's 
failure to ever issue an official statement of any 
kind on the resignation, their failure to interview 
any new coaches for the job (Gerry Faust and 
George Welsh have definitely not been contacted 
at all), and finally the meeting last Tuesday. 
Both Doyle and Condon maintain that the matter of Devine's return was discussed in that meeting, but Joyce labeled that "ridiculous. So now they're saying I'm a liar and he's a liar right?" 
Joyce ridiculed the suggestion that his failure to make a statement left an open door for Devine, saying, "that sounds silly to me. I don't know what announcement we'd make. It was obvious, wasn't it?" 
As of Tuesday, Joyce had not decided definitely whether or not to carry his complaint of ir­responsible journalism to the publishers of the Tribune (the story "was absolutely, atrociously false. There was never any semblance of fact to that story."), saying, "journalists love to get involved in these kind of fights .... We can't do anything about it, we can just be disgusted with it. I hope you men over there (The Observer) are practicing better ethics than that." 
Condon and Doyle both feel the University greatly overreacted to the article, saying that institutions such as Notre Dame are public figures not immune to speculation, and that the possible damage done was exaggerated "They act like it's some big damn secret," Condon remarked "Notre Dame's thinking is still back in the 18th century .... the print media made Notre Dame." Joyce does not feel the University overreacted 
The two journalists discount charges of ir­responsible journalism. Condon feels, "the main issue here is, 'was he offered the job again?' In a fast-breaking story like this one, you can't be right on all the facts," butCondonstands by the article's basic claim. "We try to present the latest news as fast as possible," he said. Doyle commented, "I wouldn't have used the story," but he felt the Chicago paper's handling of the situation was merely "sloppy." 
The sensationalism involved was inappropriate, but the claim ofoverreaction is a valid one-after all, it is only college football, and the potential for actual damage by the story was minute. Keep in mind also that, until a pew coach is named, the Tribune has not been proven wrong, and there was a basis, however shaky, upon which to hypothesize Devine's return. Whether that basis was enough to run the story is up for debate. Stay tuned 
eed help getting to 
CENTRAL OHIO 

fot Thonksgvlng beak? Join ND -smc Central Ohio Club 
F01 info call : nm  3130  
Jon  3888  
ae  41-4504  

DISCUSSION AND FILM on being a BROTHER, SISTER OR PRIESt in the Church today 
Farley Hall Thursday, November 20 
9:30p.m. 

sponsored by Indiana Campus Renewal Team 

The Observer 
[continued from page 1) 
North Dining Hall which may result from the opening of the new women's dorms. 
Quality senators are the pri­mary need of the senate, ac­cording to Tighe. "We need good people to lay the ground­work for the senate; people who are willing to be movers and to be responsible," Tighe said. 
The race for the third district seat became heated last night when Pat Borchers, a sophomore from Pangborn, in an interview with The Observer, charged his opponent, Carl Carney, with "not taking the campaign ser; iously." Borcher cited jokes, which he alleged were included in Carney's speeches, such as the Fisher sophomore's inability to bring the hostages home, and his plans to "nuke" the Board of Trustees as evidence supporting his charge. 
One of Borchers' major con­cerns is the off-campus crime situation, which he claims may discourage students from mov­ing off-campus. According to Borchers, "this could f'esult in a housing lottery." He is also interested in making St. Michael's laundry optional, and open to both sexes; and in reinstating section parties. 
Borchers and Carney are con­tending for the right to represent Dillon, Fisher, Pangborn, Lyons, Morrissey, Badin, and Howard Halls in the senate. 


Like other candidates, Borchers emphasized the need for quality senators. "The senate needs someone who is respons­ible, vocal, hard-working, and someone who does not spout absurdities," Borchers stated. He feels that he is the man for the job. 
Carney emphasized the de­velopment of the senate as a strong student voice. "I intend to increase the power and the mission of the senate. We must convince the trustees that it isn't a social organization but a legislative body," Carney ex­plained. . 
The building of a new student center was also placed high on Carney's list of objectives. Carney observed that LaFortune Student Center i~ "North Quad oriented", and that "the South Quad is somewhat isolated." Carney would also like to revamp the keg and section party 

· policies. 
Carney is. relying on his ex­perience in high school student government and the New York "Boys' State Senate" to aid him in channelling the student voice. "The new senators must work toward making the senate a voice as a legislative body. I think this is where experience will help," Carney stated. 
Jeffrey Newby and Thomas W eithman, both Planner jun­iors, are squaring off for the district four seat, which contains 

Thursday, November 20, 1980-page 3 
• • . Eskitnos 

tools such as television, jetliners a telephone interview from his
(continued from page I) 
and satellites that have enabled office in Ottawa, but added the and fishing and later supple­the widely dispersed Inuit com­Inuit are concerned about the mented their livelihood through munity to organize for this latest project's potential impact on the fur trade. fight. wildlife in the islands and sea 
A couple of Inuit trappers on The Geological Survey of passages of the north. Banks Island, in the western Canada estimates the oil poten­Amarook acknowledges that Arctic, can make as much as tial of the Arctic islands at 4. 3 the Inuit claim to some of the far $80,000 in a good year of billion barrels, the gas potential north may be tenuous. trapping white fox, s~id the at 87 trillion cubic feet. "But the federal government official in Yellowknife. A, consortium of petroleum doesn't live there either," he 
But over the past three and shipping firms, including the said "Even Queen Victoria, who decades the nomadic life has government-owned Petro­gave it to the Canadians, she largely ended, and most Inuit Canada, recently received en­never set foot on the islands." have gathered in government­vironmental approval for a $1.5 Another potential obstacle is built coastal settlements stretch­billion project by which gas from Canadian Prime Minister Pierre ing from the Davis Strait, facing Melville Island, just below the Elliott Trudeau. He has devoted Greenland, westward 1,800 polar ice cap, would be frozen his political life to combating the miles to the Beaufort Sea. and shipped south in enormous French nationalism that has long Relatively few hold regular jobs; icebreaker tankers. threatened to pull French-speak­most rely on government hous-The "Arctic Pilot Project," ing Quebec out ofCanada. Some ing, health care and welfare which still needs National believe that Trudeau, deeply payments. Energy Board approval, could be opposed to political divisions on 
The abrupt break from tra­in operation by 1985. ethnic grounds, might resist ditional life has contributed to "We are not totally against establishing an lnuit-based problems of alcoholism, suicide development," Amarook said in territory. and family disruptions. But it has also brought such modernday 



I'*I;~~':'"'':::::~: ~:::;: 'I 
• • . Senate 
} } Early at t 
Planner, Grace, Villa Angela, and when construction is completed, 
~1~~ THE NAZZ
ill: 1!1! 
Pasquerilla East and West. 
Newby joined other candi­dates in calling for the reform of ~' ;·TONIGHT -9:00 Rob Ling .·; the CLC. He supports giving the CLc:;'s legislative power to the \\~\ I 10:30 Open Stage \\\\ student senate. "We'll have a good cross-section of Notre 
jjjj l!llFRIDAY-8:00 "i" featuring: jjjl
Dame in the senate. We should 
[continued on page 4] l~lj l~ll T~e Bustamantes \[\. } ~~~! Bill Burke } ~ J JanetDeane i ~llj \~\~: Joe Rodriguez \[\[\ 

jJJJ Jill Kevin Quinlan lll· t t 10:00 "The End" ~1~: ~~~l I featuring ~~~: ~\~\ ~~~\ Mike O'Connor 1!!: 
I 9 00ii\SATURDAGYa-rc1·a: Marcello •••• 
::::: :::: . :::: :r J Band t 

;::L,.!.,.,,,~.,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,.,,,,,.,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,::::,:::_,.,,,,,,.,.,...,.,...,...,.,,..,.,...,,,,,,,.,,,,,.,,,.)I 

....united Limo, Inc. 
Travel United Limo To/From Chicago O'Hare Airport 
One Way Fare ..... $22.00 
Deliver to your airline at O'Hare Airport 
Round Trip .......... $39.00 
O'Hare pick-up at Lower Level Carson Restaurant 
Save over 50% on Round Trip To and From O'Hare 
New Schedule: NOW LEAVING ND BUS SHELTER 6 TIMES A DAY 
OFFICE,
PICK-UP 

Bittersweet & McKinley, Big Bear Restaurant, Town &Country Center, POINTS: ' Notre Bus Mlchlana Regional 




The Observer Thursday, November 20, 1980-page4 
Copy Editors' 
---btlef but---

Sundoy 1 p.m. in the newsroom QuestioM rm coli rTby Ftan 
7992 


HolyCrossFathers 
-~ University of Notre Dame 

A community of faith and friendship where young men prepare to become Holy Cross priests. 
For further information or vocational counseling with no obligation contact: 
Rev. Andre Leveille, c.s.c. Box 541 Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 • 219 283·6385 

• • • Senate 
[contiued from page 3] be able to go directly to Fr. Van W olvlear, instead of going through the CLC," Newby ex­plained. Newby listed "hard work" as one of his qualities that will aid him in serving in the senate, as well as his ability to ''talk to people on a one-to-one basis." N ewby''s opponent, Thomas Weithman, is running his cam­paign on a personal level. Weithman spent last evening visiting with prospective consti­tuents. "I have found the big 
need to be that more studentS should become aware of how student government works," Weithman stated. Weithman characterized such issues as the keg policy and section parties as "sensationalized," and he claim­ed that he had not based his campaign on those topics. 
"A student government ve­hicle to replace apathy with awarenesss" was how Weithman termed the student senate. He concluded with the hope that there would be a larger voter turnout today. 
• • • Death march 

[continued from page 1] 
administ}ation. "We want to prove to Dean Roemer and the South Bend Police that we are responsible students," explained Marx. "I want to emphasize that we want to have fun and promote class unity, but we also want to be responsible. TenJuniors will be following the marchers this year to clea11 up any mess. 
"The administration would not authorize our use ofsenior bar for the march this year. Senior bar was a major part oflast year's march," she said. 
The University had the opportunity for last year to be the final year for the march, according to Senior Class President Mickey Turzai. "We looked for cooperation from the administration, specifically Dean Roemer, in finding alternatives to the march. 
Student Body President Paul Riehle extended a warning to those students who plan on participating in the march. "I justwant students to be aware of the hazards involved with the march," Riehle said. "If 
. you're under 21, it would be unwise to be in that area drinking. · "I think that the city is overreacting to the distorted picture ofwhat happened after the Alabama game last weekend." 
Friday's march will begin at the BoatClub at 1:30. Seniors will then meet at the Circle at 2:45, and proceed to Corby's. The march will continue from Corby's to Lee's to Corby's, and then to green field for hot dogs. At 6:30 the seniors will march to the Air Force pep rally. 
--~------------------------------------~
ANYTHING GROWS 
N. IRONWOOD I at

FLORIST -campus delivery TOLL ROAD 
House Plants Gifts, Corsages DIRECTLY EAST of CAMPUSHOUSE PLANTS 1''/ 4mi. N. of Douglas 
GIFTS, TELEFLORIST 10% DISCOUNT PRESENT THIS
WIRE FLOWERS 
COUPON 
272-8820 
NO • SMC 10/80 

---------------------------------------~ 
A contest between Kathleen Kucaba, a junior transfer student from Northeastern Illinois University, and senior Mitch Feikes is shaping up in district five, the off-campus district. Kucaba is hoping to use her experience gained as a member of a similar governing body at Northeastern in the senate. Among her ideas for off-campus students arc an information center that would serve as a guide on where to live off-campus, meetings where students can air their grievances, and a newsletter that would serve as a commun­ication link between the student government and the students. Kucaba considered this third proposal to be extremely impor­tant in making students feel that they are not isolated. "These students are a part of the University, they are not a separate unit," Kucaba pointed out. 
Mitch Feikes, Kucaba's op­ponent, also listed better com­munication among his goals if elected. Also, Feikes would like to t.lk to the community in an effort to help solve the off-cam­pus crime problem, and he proposes talking . with student governments on other campuses in regard to _the proposed "student neighborhood." 
According to Feikes, the Off­Campus Commission is con­sidered by many as a social commmission; \therefore, the only way to effect change is through the senate. Feikes claims that he will rely on his organizational abilities that he has developed in his tenure as An Tostal chairman. 
Voting for the various senate seats will take place in the residence halls today from 11:30 to 1:00 pm, and from 4:30 to 
6:30. Off-campus students are to vote in LaFortune. 

Group seeks 
•
st-ngers, 





-suGAR BOWL 
Way Down Yonder in New Orlean.s 
. 

Rooms and a LIMITED SUPPLY of Sugar Bowl footb-all tickets available. Stand i1n line for your student ticket:s. 
GO IRISH! YOU'RE #1 \ 
Robertson Travel Post, Inc. 2732 Cahaba Road Mountain Brook, Ala. 35253 Phone: (205) 879-0461 


bands 

The Spiritual Rock of Notre Dame is looking for musicians, singers, bands, etc., to perform Christian music (rock, popular, jazz, gospel, folk, or other) in an informal coffeehouse-type setting, on or off-campus. Call John Hupp at 233-3885 for details . 


1\ 


'·-"~'-:..·:.~.·-·--:'." ..·.. ·~·~··­
J 

--------------------------------, 
.. 

Thursday, November 20, 1980-page 5







Editorials 
P.O. Box Q 
Exorcising a few errors 
Dear Editor, 
enjoyed the article "Nicola 
Speaks on Exorcism" (Observer, 
Nov. II) -as entertaining and 
lucid as Sheila Shunick could write 
considering the inaccuracies and 
invectives given to our students by 
Fr. Nicola. 
First of all he said that "three or 
four exorcisms take place per year 
in the United States alone." 
Obviously, he must be referring to 
three or four exorcisms performed 
by Roman Catholic priests. Three 
or four hundred per year would be a 
far more accurate estimate. The 
Rev. Richard Rogers (a Holyness 
minister generally rated the world's 
best) has alone led exorcist teams 
in more than 300 clashes with 
Satan, victorious in every clash. A 
Jesuit priest in California recently 
permitted an interview with a 
reporter in which he stated that he 
alone has been involved in more 
than 150 and knows ofothers close 
to that figure. 
Fr. Nicola spoke at length of an 
··actual exorcism of a 13 year old 
boy" (upon which the movie The 
Exorcist was based). Did he ever 
mention that the chiefexorcist was 
a Protestant minister? 
Fr. Nicola also scored the charis­
matics as groups who "pass every­
thing off as possession by the 
devil." That statement is notjust an 
opinion, it is a lie. 
Fr. Nicola also said that for the 
Church to undertake more exor­
cisms, it would "discredit the 
Church even further" in the eyes of 
the academic and scientific com­
munities. Perhaps so, even though 
it is "unofficially" strongly con­
jectured that up to 40 percen( of 
retardation and p~ychosis are direct, 
indirect, or in combination con­
sequences ofpossession. I feel sure 
that Jesus would agree with Fr. 
Nicola to let these persons rot in 
the snakepits rather than risk a 
''further discrediting'' ofthe Church 
in order to effect cures on those 
persons cursed with possession. 
After all, Jesus never identified 
with the lepers, the possessed, the 
destitutes, the jailed, the harlots, 
and in general the losers of his 
society. 
I didn't hear Fr. Nicola mention that if an exorcist is defeated .by a . demon that he is probably through 
for life (unless he can defeat the 
same demon in another contest; a 
very infrequent occurrence). I 
didn't hear Fr. Nicola mention that 
two Roman Catholic exorcists 
were defeated by Satan two years 
ago. They were also given a one­
year suspended jail sentence for 
denying the possessed (who died) 
necessary medical treatment. (It is 
a victory for Satan if the possessed 
dies while still in the state of 
possession.) 
Could it be that the real reason the Church is dodging exorcisms is due to the reluctance of a declining clergy? (An exorcism can be quite an unpleasant experience.) Even a victory takes something out of any exorcist. Or is it adollars and cents issue? An exorcism might tie up a group of priests anywhere from a ·few. days to possibly a few years (without any weekly collection baskets). Whatever the reason, it is not the famous quote of Our Lord, "Greater love no man hath than one who would lay down his life for 
his friend." 
Finally, I would like to say that, 
regardless of Fr. Nicola's degrees 
in Philosophy, Classical Languages, 
and Theology, I believe that 
Richard Rogers has forgotten more 
about exorcism than Fr. Nicola 
will ever know. I'm sure that I have. 
Gre~ L. Curme 
No parking at Morris Inn 
Dear Editor, • 
I am one ofthose dutiful, uncom­plaining students who parks her car in lot C-3. For those who do not know which lot that is, ·do not believe it is the one near the stadium -that is true only for early. risers-after 9:00a.m., c;-3 is the lot near senior bar. I do not, however, sail into handicapped parking and limp my way to class. I do not wear disguises and park in the reserved spots for coaches. I do not appoint myself Snite Gallery patron for the day. I do not park in the "No Parking" areas, not even when they are snowcovered and the "X" is imperceptible. Appar­ently, I am a great nuisance to security. But they found a way to get back. 
I ate breakfast at the Morris Inn on Thursday morning. The parking signs say, "Guests of the Morris Inn Only." I spent eight dollars on over-easy eggs to allay any impropriety on my part (a student in the Morris Inn?), and hoped that I had not imposed myself upon my hosts. 
One of two things happened: Either a delirious security guard thought my car was in C-3 in one of the afore-mentioned zones oftrans­gression, or else I was not a guest of the Morris Inn. (In the case of the latter, I am unnecessarily eight dollars poorer than I should be.) Whatever the truth is, let this episode give testimony to the efficiency of security and acclaim for its procedures in apprehending law-breakers: my ticket was written at 9:07 a.m., at which time I was taking my first sip of orange juice. 
Lynn Joyce 

Foodsales a 'den of sin?' 
Dear Editor, 
The other day I was picking up a pizza in one dorm's food sales and besides the usual complement of sodas, munchies, and sandwiches, I was surprised to see on sale what I consider to be pornographic mag­azines. Although I believe in an individual's freedom ofspeech and expression, I also believe in certain standards by which Notre Dame, as a Catholic and Christian univer­sity, should abide. Christ tells. us that we should love God with all our hearts, souls, minds, and strength, and love our neighbors as ourselves. A Christian school should be regulated in a way which fosters this love. Pornography is un-Christian because it inherently destroys the neighborly· love of which Christ speaks by allowing people to degrade one another. 
Treating one  another  as  persons  
must  be  the  basis  for Christian  
Jove.  

The woman posing in porno­graphic magazines is treated as a mere object of men's physical desires_ to the exclusion of her soul, spirit, and mind. Why should one acknowledge one aspect ofher person to the detriment ofher God-given soul, spirit, and mind? A man studying these pictures views the woman with base, animal desires. He does not see her as a person_ but as an object of his lust. Men 
disregard their own god-given souls, associated with the library staff. spirits, and minds while exalting First it was the prison-like guard the skin-deep beauty of a womdn. who patrols the second floor, and Men and women are much more today the uncompromising woman than mere animals. As Christians in the reserve book room. All I we know that men and women are want is a little respect. Treat me created~ in God's image and like-· like a person if you find it too hard 
ness. Pornography destroys the to treat me like an adult. connection we have with God by I can understand that, if a person exalting the fleshy side of our is causing a nuisance in the library, nature. Let us discover our God­a library staff person might ask him 
given humanness in its complete­to have more consideration for ness and treat all our neighbors as others trying to work, but it seems persons in Christ's love. As that all you have to do is stand by 
Christians, let us ban pornography someone to have your I.D. snatched from our school. 
from you. The second floor is notorious for being a social-study Thomas Seasly area (maybe because we don't have -----------an adequate student center) and if other students are in need of inten­
Irony at ND? 

sive study, they kt;~o~ better than to go to the second floor. I do realize Dear Editor, that there must be limits on conver-
Astonishment compels ... : having sation, but I think the current heard reactions among faculty to harassment is ridiculous. Dr. David Leege's letter of insin-. . 
uating counsel to Dr. Charles Today I received a notice from 
Rice...I tremble at the thought that the reserve book room that I owed 
1

the word "irony" is befond the $ .5.0..When I called the woman, 
reach of some in the Notre Dame sh_e InSISted that I had ta_kcn some­
community. The thought leads to thm.g o~t and retur~ed 1t the next 
melancholy so that I am, day. First of a~l. 1t occurred in 
September ( effic1ent, aren't they?), Regretfully, but I know that I never take Anthony Kerrigan materials out overnight. She insist­
ed that I was at fault and then 
informed me that my parents would 
No re~pect get the bill. So, she's telling 
Mommy and Daddy on me; I'm outin library ofthe picture. I want some respect. I am ultimately responsible for my 
Dear Editor, 

own actions, and want to be treatedI've just about had it. When are like a real person. Enough of thisstudents on this campus going to be kindergarten treatment. This is agiven a little ofthe respect that they university, remember?
deserve from employees of this university? Twice this week alone, 
Bob Bacic
I've been treated badly by persons 


'Racial slur' irks Duran 
fan 

Dear Editor, 
I hope I'm not the only person offended by Michael Ortman's casual racial slur in the Nov. II Observer. "Roberto Duran-the slimy, grizzly Panamanian who speaks about six words ofEnglish ... " How can you print this sort of 
The Observer wekome.r letters ~en:'ark.~ What Ortm~n mea~s by from its read,ers. Letters should be shmy I have no 1dea. D1d he typed, double-spaced and signed. To <;>nee buy a high-priced fight ticket, insure swift publication, the writer just so he could sneak a touch at should include his/her phone number. Mr. Duran, and find himself 
Doonesbury 
Ml?. K/9511«1?, MANY OF 
MR.REAfiiW'S~ 
SIJPPC1CfCI(S FECI.. THAT 'lJl SHOUtP 6e {;ffl!EIJA POST ~~~~ /JfZNSCFT 
ON COMMINISM. ANY CfJ';fltf:NT r 

08V/Ot/Sl.X THATIS PAmnt.Y 
. A85URP. fOR FWR ~5, I IJI/?EC7W 71{~ M2ST54~ EKJMBIJ.IJSIN HISTlRf70mP sarTHCASrA5J4 FR1Jf1 GOING CC¥rlMt/N/5T. 
Garry Trudeau 

7113 avAST/IliON rF CAMBOf.:fA llf.l1.JE t1#1'3 
8tiTUJ4SN'T7HAT

AMll£5{{J.J& IN 7H~ 
A 1.1771£ UNFIIIR

S7l?l)36{£ 70 0/NllliN 
7D Y{)(JR FANS,

/ SOV!e[/l(i(jR!;5S/QV. SIR? \ 
repulsed upon doing so? I would 
have paid to sec that myself. As for the American linguistic arrogance (Englishmen, who really speak English, seldom display it), Ortman should consider Duran's reason for avoiding a language that could 
make him the most popular fighter. world-wide, since Ali: It's not that he's too stupid to learn it (even Ortman managed. after his fashion. to do that), but that he refuses to subm~ to the pressures exerted on him by ethnocentric North Americans. 
Ortman's bigoted classification only justifies. in my opinion, that refusal. 
Tom Riley 

. _Editorial Board and DepartmentManagers 
Edttor-m-Chtef............ Paul Mullaney SMC News Edrtor . . .... Mary Leavitt 
Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 Managing Editor .............. Mark Rust Sports Editor ............. Beth Huffman 
~he f!bserver is an independent newspaper published by the students of the Editorials Editor........... Mike Onufrak Feat11res Editor .... r....... Molly Woulfe UmversHy ofN_o_tre Dame du La__c and. Saint M.ary'.s Co.lleue. It does not necessarily C J c 11 h P.''-• EJ·, ] h M 

==Ihe_-Obsener.== 
<;> Senior opy Eaitor ... Mary Fran a a an w.o ar.or. · ... · . . . . . . . . . . . o n acor reflect t he poIICJes of the adm1mstrauon of either mswuuon. The news is reponed B · M G H
Exec11tive News Editor ..... Tom Jackman rmmm anager · · · · · · · · · · · reg edges 
as accurately and as objectively as possible. Editorials represent the opinion of a c ... " ) R ·dd
· f d N Ed'• p D on.,ouer ............. ......... im u 
majonty o the E itorial Board. Commentaries, opinions, and letters are the views ews t.Or · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · am egnan J M
· C u EJ· L D 1 Aavertising anager ........... Mark Ellis 
of the1r authors. olumn space is available to all members of the community, and .vews .attor. · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · ynne a ey c· tat· M B h H k
· f I rrc11 ron anager . . . . . . . . et ac t'tt the free expressiOn o varying opinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged. SMC Executive Editor ...... Margie Brassi d M hiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii~ii.iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiipimi"ic:itioi".iia"aKer .... •....1o n McGrath 





Features 
Thursday, November 20, 1980 -page 6 
Cover collecting: grow-ing with the changes Tim Neely
' 


Are you a fan of Foreigner and/or Lynyrd Skynyrd and/or the Rolling Stones? Ifso, then you probably own a valuable record. For assorted reasons, the record companies of these groups decided to change album covers. 
Usually, a record company alters album covers because a segment ofthe listening audience finds the covers objectionable. Obscene gestures (e.g. the position ofAlice Cooper's hand on the original Love It to Death), nude or semi-nude bodies (many cases), the grotesque (a famous case will be mentioned later), and potential lawsuits (e.g. Rose Royce's In Full Bloom, which used the official Rolls­Ro.Yce insignia without permission) have all prompted alterations in LP jackets. 
Sometimes covers are changed for clarity-e.g. adding the album title to a brief reissue of Styx's Pieces ofEight. On the first printing of Bruce Springsteen'sBorn toRun,Jon Landau's name was spelled "John" on the back cover. Copies with that minor mistake are worth up to three times more than other copies of the LP. 
Below are mentioned five fairly prominent album-cover disappearing acts. Three of them, which are not yet three years old, demonstrate that an album need not be an obscure antique to be valuable. All three of these albums sold over a million copies and made the top five on the LP charts. The other two have historical significance: One was the first album cover to be removed because of nudity, and the other was the first truly controversial 
1. DOUBLE VISION by Foreigner, Atlantic SD 19999. Released inJune 1978; cover changed in August 1978 and again in December 1978. 
This album is a good example ofone that was modified because oj;fJ~ity problems. The original front cover (pictured above) had several faults: 1) The background photo was made so prominent that the word "Foreigner" drowns in the background; 2) The title of the LP was put in very small letters along the bottom, making it invisible when placed in record racks. This problem was alleviated with a sticker on the outer wrapper stating the LP title plus"featuring the hit single 'Hot Blooded'." Some copies, however, did not have the sticker on them; to someone who had never s~en the record, this was a problem-the album could have been the first one (Foreigner) with a new cover. 
With the release of the 45 "Double 
Vision," Atlantic re-issued the album. 
The background picture was made 
much less prominent; the title was 
moved under the word "Foreigner"; 
the cover's color was changed to light 
blue. On the back cover, song titles 
were listed in sequential rather than 
alphabetical order, and the song listed 
as "Lonely" was correctly listed as 
"Lonely Children." 

The present album cover is the same as the second except for color. When "Blue Morning, Dlue Day" was released as the third single from the · album, the cover was changed to red from blue. 
Approximate values on this album cover are rathe~ low compared to the others to be mentioned. In near-mint condition (seldom played, with very little sign of wear), the first cover is worth around $10 and the second is worth about $7.50. The third (like all albums still available in stores) is worth 
tly less than in-store price (about 
2. SOME GIRLS by the Rolling Stones, Rolling Stones COC 39108. Album releasedJune 1978; cover 
_changedJuly 1978. 
Some Girls is actually available with 
sixteen different covers. From the 
order of the colored bands on the 
cover (green on top is considered 
rarest, followed by blue on top) to the 
color ofthe words"Some Girls" (red is 
more rare than blue) to the pictures or 
lack thereof on the_ inner sleeve, there 
are numerous combinations. 
From the tin;te of its release, this 
album caused trouble. The potential 
for alteration was there, because of 
both the controversy over the sleeve 
and the supposed racial slurs in the title 
song. Collectors went into stores the 
week of its release and bought copies 
in blocks of 100 or more in 
anticipation of change. They were 
right. 

After receiving strong protests from 
Lucille Ball and Raquel Welch, two of 
the many "girls" pictured on the inner 
sleeve, it was decided to remove all 
pictures from it except those of the 
Stones and friends. They did not want 
to risk either offending anyone else or 
getting involved ina lawsuit On copies 
of this patchwork sleeve appear the 
words "Pardon our appearance. Cover 
under reconstruction." (The cover was 
never reconstructed; it remains a 
patchwork to this day.) 
Since the Rolling Stones are more 
collectible than most other artists, 
their records are worth more. An 
original of Some Girls is worth roughly 
$12 in near-mint, despite the fact that 
it has sold more copies than any other 
album. 

3. SURVIVORS by Lynyrd Skynyrd, MCA 3029. Album released October 17, 1977; cover changed shortly afterwards. 
One of the few covers changed before any formal complaints were lodged against it-Street Survivors was altered by MCA on humanitarian grounds more than anything else. Three days after the LP's release, Lynyrd Skynyrd was involved inaplane crash which killed Ronnie VanZant and Steve Gaines. MeA could have capitalized on the crash and left the cover intact, butfelt itwas a betteridea to change it. 
As shown above, the cover depicts the band members standing in the middle of a burning town. Flames surround them and are beginning to engulf them. To add to the irony, Steve Gaines is the one in the middle who is almost totally engulfed in fire. Mercifully, the cover was changed to an enlarged version of the original back cover photo, and the new back cover listed only the song titles and "This album has been previously released on MCA-3029 with a different cover." 
The original covers were available for only a short time. As a result, the cover is already worth $25 in near-mint condition. Even in "good" condition (well-worn butstill playable) its value is about $6.50. 
A side note: Less than a year later, MCA released another ironic album cover. On the cover of Who Are You by The Who, Keith Moon is sitting in a chair which reads, "Not To Be Taken Away." Shortly after that, he died That cover was not changed. 

4. BLIND FAITII by Blind Faith, A teo SD 33-304. Album released May 1969; cover changed not long afterwards. Deleted in the mid-1970s. Reissued on RSO Records in 1978. 
This was the first album released in the U.S. to be changed because it revealed too much skin. It wasn't the first in that genre to cause contt:oversy-John LennonandYoko Ono's Unfinished Music ±1: Two Virgins, on which the two posed stark naked, was the first, but that cover wasn't changed (a brown paper bag was put over the offensive cover instead) ­but it was the first to actually be revised. 
The original featured a painting ofa. 13-year-old girl from the waist up. The only thing "wrong" was that she wasn't wearing anything. The back cover of the original was identical to the front, except the girl did not appear on it. The cover caused vety little stir in Europe, where the LP was originally released: but once it crossed the Atlantic, it was another story. Atco Records hurriedly prepared another cover, featuring a picture of the band on the front and the lyrics to the songs on the back, a "safer" cover. (It also had the title ofthe album on the front, something the original didn't have.) By the mid-'70s, the album was out of print. 
A revival in Etic Clapton's career in 
1978 caused a reissue of the album to 
hit the stores. On one side ofthe jacket 
was the controversial nude; on the 
other,. the picture of the band. Not a 
whimper was heard a,bout the cover's 
re-release. What a difference a decade 
makes. 
In near-m~nt condition (unlikely for an album released in 1969, but one can dream), BlindFaith is worth around $20 for the nude, $12 for the band cover, and slightly under store price ($5) for the reissue. 
Tim Neely is a Features ~taff writer, as well as author ofthe. weekly rock trivia quiz. (See page 7.) His personal collection of popular musical recordings and album covers is basically urifathomable. 


5. YESTERDAY AND TODAY by the Beatles, Capitol (S)T 2553. Album releasedJune 20, 1966, with new cover; promotional copies with original cover released about two weeks before release date. Theoretically, no commercial copies were released with the first cover. 
No American Beatles album released before 1967 is identical to its British counterpart. In fact, many titles in America don't even exist in Britain. Yesterday and Today is an example of that. It was supposed to be justanother American hatchet job, consisting of prior single releases, leftover tracks from the BritishRubber Soul, and tracks from the then-unreleased Revolver. However, the controversy surrounding its original album cover made it much more than "just another American hatchet job." It made certain copies among the most sought-· after records in 'the world. 
Early in 1966, the Beatles got word that a new album was being prepared for release in the States. All they had to do was pose for the cover, for the songs were already in the can. From the photo session came a cover that the Beatles were particularly fond of (pictured above): the boys are dressed in butcher smocks, holding raw meat and decapitated baby dolls. The cover symbolized Capitol's handling of their British albums, which turned seven British albums into eleven American ones. 
Either Capitol failed to see the 
symbolism or didn't care, because 
promotional copies were sent out 
about two weeks prior to its 
announced release date (common 
practice in those days). They were 
totally unprepared for the unanimous 
negative acclaim the cover received 
Some stores went as far as to threaten 
not to stock it if the album wasn't 
altered. Finally, on the Friday before 
the Monday release date, Capitol 
decided to axe the butchers and 
replace them with covers depicting the 
Beatles gathered around a trunk. One 
problem, however, remained to be 
overcome. 
Capitol had printed 750,000 butcher 
covers and had them ready for release 
when the decision to change was made. 
All of those had to be removed, 
destroyed, and replaced in two days. 
People worked overtime to get the job 
done, and for the most part the job was 
done well. But some workers became 
lazy: They put the new cover over top 
of the old cover ... and unintentionally 
created an unknown number of 
collector's items. 
The valueofthe cover has multiplied 
dramatically over the years. A never­
covered version in mono is worth from 
$25G-$500, in stereo from $50G-$1000. 
A previously-covered version is worth 
from $150-$300 in mono, $200-$400 
in stereo. (The h_igher prices are for 
records in near-mint condition; the 
lower, for "very good.") 
You might have a copy ofthis album if someone in your family bought it in 1966. Check about three inches below the words "Yesterday and Today" on the front cover. The black V-shaped 
(continued on page 7] 

Features 
Thursday, November 20, 1980 -page 7 
Frank Zappa zaps the ACC 
When Frank Zappa and his band took the stage last Friday at the ACC, the first words from his mouth were . rather typical of his off-beat style. Remonstrating the crowd with a choice four-letter word here and there, Zappa stated that if anyone threw a Cyalume stick (a green, plastic, phosphorescent cylinder) onto the stage, he would promptly leave. He also noted that the crowd should "leave (its) animal behavior for the bedroom." Thus, the concert began. But from the opening instrumental on, the tone of the concert was much different from this first bizarre opening scene. The usually wild, inane, and down-right crazy Zappa seemed sedate, almost an antithesis of the image that has grown around him. 
Approximately one-half to two­thirds of the show was spent on some of the many instrumentals written by Zappa, such as "Apostrophe," while most ofhis more colored songs, such as "Catholic Girls," were missing. 
Also missing from the concert was the normally wild stage show that has been associated with a Zappa affair. Yet, this was no detraction from the show, as a few well-placed stage diversions, such as the dancing pig in "Tortue Never Stops," kept the stage lively. And there was always Zappa himself who, although not always the center of attention, was nonetheless constantly noticeable. During the keyboard and synthesizer solo, Zappa sat center-stage smoking a cigarette in the same nonchalant manner as one enjoys a coffee break. Refraining from the boring dancing and stomping around stage that characterizes many stage shows, Zappa's simple arm movements were a show in them­selves. His direction ofhis band with a baton was extremely humorous and entertaining. 
The concert itself was an excellent musical display as Zappa excelled on the acoustic and electric guitars. Many of his instrumentals could not have been classified as rock'n roll as some of them approached almost classical guitar solos. This makes one wonder why Frank Zappa still performs such perverse, insane musical pieces. The answer, however, seems to be found in the song "Tinsel Town," which Zappa played in the second half of his show. The song is an open parody of the music industry, an industry that Zappa wants as little to do with as possible. 
The concert itself should have 
actually been billed as featuring the 
Frank Zappa Band because Zappa has 
suurounded himself with adept, 
skillful musicians such JlS back-up 
singer, guitarist Ray White. In fact, 
White handled most of the real singing 
chores of the show as Zappa's vocal 
were little more than narrations. 
Since the show was greatly instru­
mental, the crowd seemed to be 
removed from the concert. Only in the 
[continued from page 6] 
area ofRingo's sweater will show easily through the white cover.)£ you find you have one and wish to remove the top cover, there are two ways to do it. One way is to steam the cover off, but 
that usually causes some damage to the lower cover. Another more time-consuming (but safer) way is to completely cover the cover with tape and then pull it off. Keep repeating until a thin layer ofpaper separates the butcher cover from the open air, then use a pencil eraser to gently remove the rest. If removal is not done few vocal offerings, such as "City of Tiny Lites," "You're an Asshole," and "Cosmik Debris," did the crowd really respond. However, everything con­sidered, all the musical selections were well played and imaginative, typical of Zappa, the musician. Only if one was expecting a riot of a concert would there have beerra letdown. 
The main body of the concert was barely two hours long, but Zappa returned for two encores. In the first, he played his most famous song, "Dancin' Fool," which sparked the crowd to life. Ad Jibbing at the end of the song, Zapp;1 made some reference to "the girls from across the street," the meaning of which escaped the crowd. Zappa concluded the first encore with an ·excellent rendition of one of his earlier works, "Don't Let Your Meat Loaf." 
The second encore was begun with the audience stomping the blea·chers. During "Bobby Brown," one of his more recent works, Zappa donned a Domer cap thrown onstage in addition to various other articles of clothing. Closing the show with one of his more typical songs, "Sixty-nine, 9 to 5," Frank Zappa turned philosopher at the end. After demonstrating the pervert­ed ends to which lonely people relieve their lonliness, he instructed the crowd to "go for the real thing." His finale was the sage offering, "God gave you a body not to carry your brains in, but to have a good time. " The concert in itself was just that.... a good time. 
john Macor 
Van Halen rocks , sorta. • • • 
Billed as the "1980 Invasion," Van Halen likes to storm a concert hall the same way an Army batallion overtakes an enemy beachhead-by force. In­deed, the band took the stage last Thursday at the ACC in the same manner as Robert Duvall's combat unit in Coppola's "Apocalypse Now," with Wagner's "Ride of the Valkyries" thundering overhead. There was fire-no napalm-, but the smell of victory, which was within their grasp, ultimately eluded both Duvall and Van Hal en. 
Singer David Lee Roth was one of the night's major disappointments. Though his banshee-like shrieks were plentiful, his voice was neither strong or rangy, and his memory was worse. He forgot lyrics often, even to his own songs, admitting finally on "Jamie's Cryin," head in hands, "I forgot the damn words." Most bands would usually look over at the culprit, shake their heads and laugh, but the rest of Van Halen, probably used to this by now, didn't even bat an eye. 
As Roth goes, apparently so goes Van Halen. His enthusiasm and chatter with the crowd was forced, and he wasn't able to summon up the desire to really excel. Favorites like "Runnin With the Devil," "Ain't 

• • .Covers 
carefully, the album could become worthless. You might be better offnot removing the cover at all; values are not much less for a cover still covered than one that isn't and was. A final note: several years ago, there was talk of reissuing the butcher cover because of changing times, but nothing crystallized. The uncropped picture, however, (the above cover is cropped at the knees) appears inside the Beatles' Rarities album. Apparently, enough ofthe population believes that, even today, the cover is too grotesque to appear on the album's front. 
Talkin Bout Love," "Dance th~ Night Away" and "Everybody Wants Some" were rendered mechanically, with little alteration from the original arrange­ments. Only Eddie Van Halen, with his occasional, amusing digressions and desire to play his riffs faster and harder, seemed willing to try, but even he was unable to inspire the band to greater heights. 
When the rest of the band left the stage for a few minutes, Eddie was finally able to indulge himself. Besides his outstanding talent for fret-tapping, he again explored the musical po&­sibilities of feedback and other dis­tortion techniques, much the same way Jimi Hendrix did at Woodstock and Monterey long ago. Not every­thing worked, but Eddie's originality and desire kept things from becoming boring. He even coaxed some re­markable sounds out of his guitar, most notably a great replication of the bowed strings of a cello. 
The other highlight of the show was a hot version of "The Cradle Will Rock." With Anthony playing key­boards encased in the shell of an 
Quiz VIII.· 
Beginning with this week's quiz, there will be a change in rules. Because I have had only two winners through seven weeks, from now on the person who answers the most correctly will win the $10. Hopefully, this will encourage those ofyou who can getseven or eight (but not ten) correct every week to submit an entry to The Observer office by Monday. 
Here's a quiz where fans of Bruce Springsteen can shine. This week I bow to populist pressure and offer this quiz on "The Boss." 
1. 
Almost everybody knows that Greetit~gs From Asbury Park, NJ was Bruce's first album. But what was his first single release? 

2. 
Piece de Resistance, his most famous bootleg album, was recorded in what city? 

3. 
The first Springsteen song to appear on the Btl/board singles chart was a version of one of his songs recorded by someone else. Name title and artist. 

4. 
This Springsteen 45 was released to some disc jockeys late in 1976 but was never released to the general public. It has never appeared on a legitimate album. What was it? 

5. 
After a disastrous stint, he swore he'd never perform as an opening act again-although at that time hardly anyone had heard of him outside New Jersey. Who did he open for on that fateful night? · 

6. 
Who originally recorded his "Fire"? 


7. A 1974 review of a Springsteen incendiary bomb (what else?), the band meshed for once behind the mo­mentarily alive Roth, who excitedly shouted, "Who .gives a damn about 

Junior's grades?" No other song 
matched this one in intensity, not even 
"You Really Got Me" (Roth forgot 
words here too!}, and the first encore 
of "Ice Cream Man" was decidedly 
unexplosive. 

Noticeably omitted from the con­cert were several personal Van Halen favorites, such as "Feel Your Love Tonight," "Somebody Get Me a Doctor," "Beautiful Girls," and "Romeo's Delight." They probably would have been ruined by the band's lack of inspiration anyway. It was an intangible not easily described, but easily perceived by Van Halen fol­lowers, and a show with great potential became an even greater letdown. 
Author's Note: There are no pk·ttJres accompanyiflg the Vafl Halefl review beetmse bat~d roadies brusquely revokedpermissirmfor Observerphotographerjohn Macor to shoot the cot~cert. 
Tom Jackman 
''The Boss'' 
concert used these words: "I have seen the future ofrock and roll and his name is Bruc~ Springsteen." Who wrote. these words? A hint: He is now integrally involved in Bruce's career. 
. 8. As ofnow, the're has been only one Springsteen song released on45 which has never appeared on a legitimate album. What is that song? 
9. 
His legal recordings have appeared on two labels: Columbia and-? 

10. 
Whatwasthedateoftheissuesof Time and Newsweek that featured Bruce on the cover? (Both were the same date.) 


The answers to last week's quiz are as follows: (1) You Broke My Heart, So I Busted Yo~r jaw was recorded by Spooky Tooth; (2) A Nod's As Good as a Wink .. to a Blind Horse was by Faces; (3) Aoxomoxoa was the work of the Grateful Dead; (4) My People Were Fair, etc., was recorded by Tyrannosaurus Rex (later known as T. Rex}; (5) Get Yer Ya-Yo's Out! was by the Rolling Stones; (6) Whatever Happened to Benny Santim? was released by Chris Rea (remember "Fool IfYou Think It's Over" from a couple years ago?); (7} The Pope Smokes 
•Dope was the work ofDavid Peel (who also gave us the underground classic Have a Martjuana); (8) Neil Diamond, believe it or not, recorded Velvet Gloves and Spit; (9) Ummagumma was by Pink Floyd; apd (10) We're Only In It for the Money was recorded by the Mothers of Invention. 
'Tim Neely 

·---------------------------------------, I The Observer-c=-c-=· ~ , 
oc. 

r. 
.. 

~~c:)l~~========================T=h=u=r=sd=a=y='=N=o=v=e=m=b=e=r=2=0='=1=9=8=0~==p=a=g=e==8
Campus 
• 
4 p.m. -microbiology dept seminar: "conventional and unconventional viruses," dr. clarence gibbs, national institute of health, 102 galvin. 

•4:20 
p.m. -rotary guard fellowship for juniors, 104 o'shag. 

• 
5:30 p.m. -college bowl: intramt·ral games at smc. 

• 
7 p.m. -abortion seminar: holy cross hall (smc), sponsored by right to life. 


• 7 &9  p.m.  film:  
"oedipus  the  king,"  snite  
aud.  
• 7:30  p.m.  slide  

presentation: david brown, painter and professor of art at st. cloud college, architec­ture aud. 
• 
7:30 p.m. -german cinema: "marriage of maria brown," mem. library. 

• 
8 p.m. -men's basket­ball: nd vs. polish national team. 

• 
8 p.m. nd-smc theatre: "a way out of no way," washington hall. 

• 
9 p.m. -nazz: rob ling, followed by open-stage. 


Irish singer 
2­
to perform· 

The Contemporary Arts Com­mission presents Joe Heaney, Irish Singer and Storyteller, who will perform Friday, November 21, at 7:30 p.m. in the Library Auditorium. There will be a reception following the perform­ance, and admission is free. 
FLOC Farm 
worker SJ:tnday 

In the: spirit of Thanksgiving, 
becom.; >g aware ofand concerned about those less fortunate, the ND-SMC FLOC Support Com­mittee will be sponsoring Farm­workerSundayonNovember23. Dorm Masses and those at Sacred Heart, including one celebrated by Bishop William McManus, will be said for the special intention of the Midwestern farmworkers .mJ their struggle for basic human ~·ights. Collections will be taken .tt the Masses, the money going1into FLOC's strike fund to sup­port the families of the striking farmworkers. Information on the farmworkers' plight will be 
.tvailable after the Masses. 



Mo1arity 


Peanuts 


Michael Molinelli 
Charles M. Schulz 
ACROSS 29 Without 50 lnsignifi· 22 Neither's 1 Spectral a scent cant person tag-along6 Maglieand 33 Maul 52 Mosaic 24 Most easily 
Mineo greeting piece heard 
10 Harboron 34 Sod 55 Rich 26 OpticalGuam 35 Wimbledon 59 Roadster device 14 Assigned great 60 Zodiac 27 Martini 
job 36 Knightly man ingredient15 Unite title 62 City on 28 Seer 16 USSR river 37 Desisted theOka 30 Letslip17 Seer 40 Writer 63 Require 31 Disgrace
19 "Arrive­Fleming 64 Wipeout 32 French 
derci-" 41 Unceasing 65 Blasted legislature20 Implore 43 Street 66 Sunbathes 34 Stadium 21 Bowler's sound 67 Purport deck 
target 44 Dropsy 38 Atypical23 Archangel 46 Students, DOWN 39 Joint 25 "Winnie at times 1 Abstract bushings 
the-" 48 Adjusted In being 42 Fried 26 Sent advance 2 Collar turnover soaring 49 Hebrew lyre or cap 45 Regret 3 Random strongly 

profusion 47 Sock part 4 Verily 48 Gourd 5 Heavenly 51 Quarrelsome 6 Use the conversa· 
rink tion 7 One, some 52 N.Mex. art 
orall colony 8 Encumbrance 53 Seine 9 Remo~~e the feeder 
finish 54 On the deep 
completely 56 Actor 10 Radiance Richard 11 Plays seer 57 Headland 12 Branches 58 fpll or 13 King or upas 
Ladd 61 Decimal 18 Spoke base 

N......~·1 


·~,o~BA~~~n~n...-.RE.,....uN.,....IO~~~ 
TONIGHT!!! 
) 


Saturday: Double Bloody Marys until end of game 
May the Force Be With US! 
The Observer Thursday, November 20, 1980 -page 9 
5-l Lally: She's no gintntick 
Many years ago, Bill Veeck was running the old St. Louis Browns baseball team. The Browns were 
Craig

a pitiful lot, not unlike the team he's now associated with. Butthatdidn'tbotherVeeck. Oh, he might have 
Chval 
been a little bit discouraged, but just because he fielded a team of lepers didn't mean he couldn't have a little fun. Her teammates will pat her on the head, and she'll 
So Veeck tried everything-giveaways, side­sit down and watch the rest of the game. And the shows before games, and a clown that roamed the people who arrive too late to see her performance stands long before the San Diego Chicken was a will mention how cute Notre Dame's mascot twinkle in some rooster's eye. looks, sitting down at the end of the bench. 
Then he really got an idea. Without a word to Guess again. anyone, Veeck hired a midget to play for his team. Since attaining varsity status three years ago, the 

, Despite her lack of height, 5-l senior Maggie Lally has
The toughest part was finding a uniform to fit, but Notre Dame women's team has played 69 games, 
been a const'stant performer for the Irish girl's basketball
Eddie Gaede! did come to bat, walking on four winning 49 of them. Lally has played in all 69, 
team. See story at left. [Photo by Tim McKeogh]
pitches. starting all but three. The baseball establishment screamed bloody Last winter, the Irish were 20-10 and gained a 

r----------------­
murder. Veeck was making a mockery of the spot among the nation's top 16 Division III game, they cried, apparantly ignoring the fact that schools. Lally averaged 6.2 poin(s per game and his hapless Browns had already done just that. was second on the team in assists and steals. 
1Will God Curve the Final? : 
For his part, Veeck insisted that it wasn't a The nation's sports information directors gimmick, that it was legitimate baseball strategy. thought enough of Lally's accomplishments t~ After all, Gaede! posed a pretty tough target, vote her to their academic All-America squad. And . -----~--------~ didn't he? it wasn't small college division, either. Lally was a t Come to college life crd fird out : 
Nonetheless, Gaede! was banned from baseball member of COSIDA's university division team, the ve&f next day. bumping elbows with the Nancy Liebermans and t i V"e~ck has pulled a lot ofstunts since the Gaede! Anne Donovans ofthe collegiate basketball world. 
t Tonight: Lewis Basement Lounge t
episode, but never another midget. Something makes me think there would be a Perhaps Bob Scott, former Irish assistant coach, 
t t
twinkle in old Bill's eye, though, if he happened to put it best when he said that Lally lived in a world of t 7:30 to 8:30p.m.see the Notre Dame women's basketball te.llm six-footers but just refused to admit that she 1 play. Because the Irish have a midget of their own, wasn't as tall as everybody else. t 5-1 senior Maggie Lally. Maybe that sounds a little bit corny, but it rings 

t Sponsored by J
Sounds kind of cute, doesn't? A 21-year-old true if you've had the chance to see Lally play. woman who can barely see over the scorer's table Looking at her on the floor, you get the playing against a bunch of women you wouldn't impression that she does this sort of thing all the t Carpus Crusade for Christ t want to bump into in a dark alley. time. Very matter-of-factly, she dribbles the ball L~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
You can just picture it, a tiny girl with pigtails into the frontcourt. And before her opponent, dribbling the basketball and running between her who is invariably at least six or seven inches taller opponents' legs. And when it's time to shoot, she than she, knows what happened, Lally is long 
HAVE A HAPPY THANKSGIVING
takes a running start and lets fly, only to see the gone, challenging the six-footers under the ball die, three feet short of the rim. basket. 
from 

When she shoots her free throws, the oftlcials let It doesn't take long at all to realize that she does her move up past the free throw lines for her do this sort of thing all the time. 
PASQUALE RULLI PIZZA 
underhanded shots. Every once in a while, she Amid all the hoopla about Notre Dame's jump climbs on 6-1 teammate Shari Matvey's shoulders from Division III to Division I this season, there 
l---------------·
I

and banks in a layup. . were doubts. So she was pretty good against 
And after a few minutes, when everyone in the Goshen and Huntington, but what happens when 
: 50¢ OFF

crowd has had their laughs, she'll trot off the floor. 
[continued on page 10] 
: ANY PIZZA 
1 
I

'---------------·I 
Bird leads Celtics to win over Pacers 
We Deliver 7 Days a Week 
INDIANAPOLIS (AP) -Larry Boston steadily widened its lead Pacers never came closer-rhan 12 
232-1883 

Bird scored 19 points and pulled to 15 points at the end ofthe first the rest of the game. 
.______.oA38 Portage Ave·-----.1 
down 18 rebounds Wednesday quarter, increased it to 20 points Cedric Maxwell and Robert night as the Boston Celtics won during the second period and Parish added 18 points apiece for their fifth straight National coasted the rest of the way. Boston, which has now won nine Basketball Association game ofits last 11 games and stands 12­
Indiana's strongest challenge 
with a 103-91 romp over the 5 for the season. 
1 came in the second half when
Indiana Pacers.'0 " · Indiana1s Billy .Knight led all. IClfl·
they closed the gap to eight 
scorers with 27 points, including 
Two long baskets by Bird at points, 65/57, but Boston then 
10 during Indiana's brief third­ran off eight straight and the quarter rally. 
the start of the game gave the 
Celtics a lead they never lost. 
BLATZ BEER QUARTS $7.69 
•

• (Can for large orders) Case 
•

• PABST BLUE RIBBON $6.69 
24-12 oz. Cans 
•

• LANCERS ROSE' WINE $3.99 
•

750 mi . MARTINI AND ROSSI $8.99
• SPUMANTE 750 mi. 
• 

• 
• HIRAM WALKER $4.99 PEPPERMINT SCHNAPPS 1 liter • 
Whether it's business or pleasure, Avis can get you 
•

going with a well-maintained car, great rates and suP,er 
• 
TEN HIGH STRAIGHT $5.99 
"We try harder" service. All cars come With a_ full tank 
BOURBON WHISKEY 1 Liter 
•

of gas-you pay only for the gas you use. It's the only 


AVIS 
.\ .....·• ..
way to go-with Avis! Avis features GM cars like the 
.D. PARTY HEADQUARTERS Mlchlana Regional Airport
Oldsmobile Cutlass Supreme. 
2128 South Bend Ave. (277-3611)
234_1024 l\etry
South Bend, IN 
Avis bumGM canand 
~prices iood while supply lasts) 



t 
I. 
The Observer Thursday, November 20, 1980 -page 10 
• • • Poland 
[continued from page 12] There are plenty ofgood seats "goaltending" will be allowed if left for the game, and Phelps the ball has already touched the stresses that it is the' perfect rim. opportunity for those freshmen In addition, each team is and St. Mary's students who did allotted two time-outs per half, not receive tickets for the and those time-outs can be called regular season basketball games. only by the coach. "Thisgame is going to be really The game is being filmed by exciting," he says. "Poland has ESPN, the twenty-four hour an excellent team with a lot of sports television network, for experience. Who needs the nationwide broadcast later in the Russians? We've got our hands week. ' full with these guys!" 
i( *~m~~ * 

01=-~-... 
80-DIDL£\'*~* u~!* 
FRIDAY·•¥.21, 1:01 P.l 
A'OR&DAN£A.~C. 


...... o.n.l.tt ..OIIIIItt..Sellnt ...., . ..,.. 
....1"-' ,...... ....,_.,. s.. ............ 
• ._ CJir IIIIM Sbw.lll,llniW,UII• ..._ ................. CIIy .........·illllllll 
............,IAnii............J. ..... 
Ship. 
....... • ~ Seonls II '-• w.lll " 111M I iiflt II 
~
................... 

Fr. Toohey 

Digger's 'underdog priest' 
Father Toohey was one ofthe first persons 1 met at Notre Dame four and one-half years ago, when I Frank was a freshman and he was a veteran who always had time to assure me that I wouldn't be homesick 
la 

forever, that yes, classes were hard for everyone, Grotta and the bookstore is the building with books in the llll••••••••••.. 

window. 
Like many others, I was deeply saddened when he passed away suddenly. And, like all of his friends, I have my share of "Remember Father Toohey..."stories, one of which I'd like to retell here. 
It happened on a road trip with our basketball team. You see, Father Toohey was an incorrigible basketball fan. He was a regular in the section reserved for Holy Cross priests at home games­
when, that is, he wasn't sitting on the bench serving as team chaplain. He visited the locker­room after every game. 
Digger called him "our underdog priest." He said that whenever he had to win a game against a favored opponent, he made sure Father Toohey was on the bench. 
The game, at North Carolina two years ago, was just such an occasion. It was a "big game" in Digger's vernacular, for the Wolfpack was favored. It was a very important game for Notre Dame-a game the Irish had to win. 
And the team chaplain was Father Toohey. 
"I've been working on my homily for tomor­row's mass," he told me on the plane to Raleigh. He promised it would be something different. 
It was. 
"A road game," he told the team, "treats you a lot like life. You work hard to prepare yourself as well as you can, but once the real game starts, it seems like the world is against you-the other team, the officials and especially the crowd. 
"But you have to rise above all of that because 

• • • Chval 
[continued from page 9] 
the Irish bring in all sorts of recruited talent? 
Nothing, that's what. 

Notre Dame plays its 70th women's basketball game in the' ACC Saturday following the football game, and you'll find Maggie Lally in the starting lineup, riglitalongside 5-9 scholarship guardJenny Klauke. 


, , , Jeers 
·•·, ~ 
[continued from page 12] WCHA... 'S'Ophomore center Rex begin at 7:30 ... Michigan Tech , Bellomy continues to lead the split with the Wolverines of Irish in scoring with 12 points... Michigan last weekend.. :junior rig~t wing Jeff Logan 
Michigan won the first night, 5-f?llows wtt~ 11.... plenty <?f 4 while the Huskies came back uckets remam ava1lable at the the second night for a 5-3 tri-. Gate 10 box office for this umph... only four points separ-weekend's series ... WSND-AM ate the top seven teams in the will carry both games live. 
who you really are comes from inside. No outside influences can get in your way-unless, ofcourse, you let them. Ifyou are confident in yourself as an individual, you can beat anything. 
"God calls us to the same task in iife. To be the best we can be regardless ofwhat evil tempts us or tries to get in our way. It isn't easy...things are bound to go against you, just like that crowd will be against you tonight. 
"But you can rise up and meet the challenge because, like that crowd, it's only a bunch ofnoise. It's nothing but a show. It can never hurt you, or stop you, if you believe. 
"And then you can win." 
Coming home that night after a one-point win over State, Digger couldn't stop talking about Father Toohey's homily. 
"Great job, Toohey," Digger toitl hin'l': -''BeSt homily I ever heard." \ "Thanks, Digger," Father Toohey smiled. "Just remember I've got a copyright on it." Digger was a pallbearer at Father Toohey's funeral and afterward, he talked about his friend. 
"Bill Toohey was a great man," he said. "He was a part of my family and he was definitely a part of our team." 
But tonight, when the Irish tip off the 1980-81 season, Father Toohey won't be there. A part of the team will be missing. 
And there's something not quite right about that. 
Digger Phelps says that women's basketball will emerge as the country's next big spectator sport, and I wouldn't bet against him. Right now, while the Irish are still testing their wings, they don't charge admission to their games. 
But if they did, they would have at least one player who was worth the price of a ticket. 
Somewhere, Bill Veeck is smiling. 


Sports Briefs 
Thursday, November 20, 19so-page 11 
~b~y~T.~n~e~0~h~s:er~t:¥~'r~a:n~d~T.;:h:e=A;:JS:u~£~1a:;lt:'d~P~r=t~-r:.r=r~==============================:;~D:E;,F~E~N~S~I:V:E~S~T~A~T~S~.~T~M~T~L~-:Y~O=S~P~B~U~f;,R;:B;K:::G:ib:b:o:no~::::::~2~==66==~2~7~.6~=71~6~3 
Saint Ma~ s freshmen may pick up 
their Notre Dame basketball tickets today at the Student 
Activities Office in LeMans HalL Students must present an ID 
for each ticket There is a four-ticket limit. 
Rowing Clubmembers are reminded that pro~f ofinsurance must be returned to their team captain, or dropped off at 204 Howard as soon as possible. Novice oarsmen must also return consent forms. Details concerning possible Sugar Bowl Regatta will be released when all insurance forms are in. 
Hat's off!. that's tomorrow night's theme at the Notre Dame-Michigan hockey game. The pep band is sponsoring "Hat Night" and urges everyone to wear their favorite hat to the game. "Hat Night" is just the first in a series of theme nights planned by the band to promote Irish hockey. 
A oep rallywill be held for the Air Force football game ft 7 p.m. tomorrow night in Stepan Center. Moose Krause and Dan Devine will be the featured speakers at the rally, which is based on the theme: STEP TWO TOWARDS#l. 
1-----~------------------------------­




Classifieds 
1 21 21.0 0 21

"im:f~FOOTBALL:~~\;@\il\f} Crable 119 6·10 3 2 o 'oueraon 
1 10 10.0 0 10 -.....~1\it--Zavagnin 69 3·14 3 1 0 Toran 
6 6.0 0 6

Zettek 66 13·68 1 1' 0 Zavagnin 1 6 6.0 0 6
Rudzinski 49 6·16 2 1 0 Masini ~ PUNTING G NO YOS AVG LG 1 1.0 0 1
Kramer 44 11-46 3 1 0 OeSiato Kiel 9 51 2083 40.8 69 
Marshall 38 10·47 0 1 0 NOTRE DAME 9 166 18.4 2 53 Gibbons 36 2·3 1 0 0 OPPONENTS 8 43 6.4 0 20
NOTRE DAME 9 51 2083 40.8 69 0 1 ___....._._--..v.___
Krimm 35 0·0 7

OPPONENTS 9 64 2628 39.6 69 Gramke 29 3·11 0 1
SCORING G TO PAT R·PA S FG TP o :~~~%~%'1NTERHALL Kidd 28 2·6 0 1 0 
Oliver Toran 27 2·10 6 0 09 016-20 0-0 0 16-21 64 
J. Stone 9 6 0-0 0-0 0 0·0 30 
Hankerd 26 4·8 2 0 1 RACQUETBALL Carter 5 6 0-0 0-0 0 0-0 30 Rice 22 0-0 1 0 0 Men's Singles 
Kiel 9 3 0-0 0·1 0 0-0 18 Duerson 22 11 ·11 1 1 0 Cordova (1247) VI. Brown (3264) 
Barber 8 2 0-0 0-0 0 0-0 12 OeSiato 19 2·8 1 2 0 Mulligan (3339) vo. Minondo (6741) 
Holohan 9 1 0-0 0-0 0 0·0 12 Cichy 7 0·0 1 0 0 Shank (8718) VI. Butler (1210) 
Krimm 9 1 0-0 0-0 0 0-0 6 Lueken 6 3·15 0 0 0 Hinea (3317) VI. Reagan (8375) 
Hunter 7 1 0-0 0-0 0 0-0 6 
Mishler 5 0·0 0 0 0 Guilfoyle (3663) VI. Yardy (36 78) Courey 6 1 0-0 0·1 0 0-0 6 
Naylor 6 0-0 0 1 0 HANDBALL Gibbons 9 1 0-0 0-0 0 0-0 6 
Bone 4 0·0 0 0 0 Dreger (233·7269) VI. Shanley (1116) Zavagnin 9 1 0-0 0-0 0 0-0 6 Autry 3 0-0 
0 0 0 Stearney (7102) VI. Schmidt (1602) McGarry 1 1 o-o 0-o o o-o 6 
Clasby 3 0·0 0 0 0 «;lark (277-8078) v1. Tenney (86B3) Buchanan 9 1 0-0 0-0 0 0·0 6 NOTRE DAME 669 67-271 31 14 2 
SQUASHBell 4 1 0-0 0-0 0 0·0 6 946 56-208 24 11 1 Rata (3005) va. Rizopatron (8689) 

OPPONENTS Kuppe (8181) VI. Kilinaki (1603)Vehr B 0 0-0 1·1 0 0-0 2 
Johnston 9 0 1·1 0-0 0 0-0 1 • Includes solos and aasi~ta Fairholm (232-71 10) va. Packer (8686) 
INT. RETURNS NO YOS AVG TO LG 

NOTRE DAME 9 2417·21 1·3 0 16·21 211 Harkey (8638) vo. Almeida I78BO) OPPONENTS 9 10 4-4 1·6 0 6-9 81 Krimm 2 67 33.6 1 49 Chum (277-2329) v1. Minondo (6741) -. ·-----------·------------·-----------------·-·---· --·-------~ 
1

A 11' i t•. ·1'•" tth ,. ,:-,! th• l•'l [:1\.t.'-1 th<.: 45 IJ ,, 'v'-1•· .It·.<; r'f'\ '•J : ..... 
/ ........ ,. !' \\11' I '''" oL< IS Ill(\ The Obser\le' :>lh: ... ,\·1' '·. ~P'' ••• ~.·.e 1'­
-M<IIH1.,, l~l""".lh F . t.;t-. 1 ;; 00 1 f'l' '0 4 45 f• 11 .\,II irl~!lofrech .,, "' 01-' 
prp·p,1''~ ·••111P< , •·I'IIH)fr ~J' throuy•r 'tlP. mdli 

~=====-=======================================-=·==========~ 
NO AVE. 2 bdrm,lurn. apt with slrMI Need 2 Air Force G.A.'s. Call Don @ For Sale: JVC LAII autoreturn BAHAMAS REUNION... THURSDAY, NOV
r-------..J 
view, convenient to campus and I FOR SALE #11-'3 II selling lurntable, 2 Uttrallnear speakers. 20. 8-12 pm regina loung•smc. Call Annie at 233-9602 
lood a drlnldllreaaonable rent. Call 234-0U5. L--• --~-· .. ,___,. 
need 2 ot mote GA's lor air Ioree Dearesl Missile, 

Twa5ears8.25·1•snowllrea. Call Bill game. call Eileen 5.409 smc Tonight at the Nan...Rob Ling at
UMCI and Out-oi-Prtnt boob bought, CAMPUS VIEW APTS. ROOMMATES Much appreciate the clean115.4
10ld, aearched. ERASMUS BOOKS, NEEDED lor 2nd semester. Sale, NEED GA's FOR AIR FORCE GAME­carpefl Do you do windows...? 9:00 Open Slage at 10:301027 E. Wayne, 232-a.uA. 12-6 p.m., cloM to campua. Call 277-8855. CALL MIKE AT 232-0921. Thankl again lrom 601...U Q Tpi
For Sale: Prog. Tl-58 calc. New. All cloMCI Mondaya. ace. PHIL 8303 Ski Club ol Indiana Unlverslly lnvlles 
Wish lo sublet 1 spoceln CAMPUS 
NEED STUDENT TIX FOR AIR FORCE -Ras. 

SMC, HC I NO to join club. O.-.r
OVERSEAS JOBS -Summer/year VIEW apt. call lisa P. 277-88o48 CALL ANN AT 277-8037. 
You beller keep those CB't under 1,000 national a regional resortround. Europe, S. Amer., Au1trallo, cantrall We know who you aret

Apt. lor rent. $50 month. Near HELPII NEED 2 STUDENT TIX TO AIR dlacounll, weekend trips to NorthernAlia. All llelda. $500-$1200 monthly. 
~KETS I 
l -
TheTeaml
achool. Immediate. 233-1329 FORCE GAME CALLBRIA~ 232-0550 Michigan, weekly club skiing Friday 
SlghiiHing. FrH lnlo. Write: IJC, Air Force GA1 and Sludents needed Ralphle -How could I ever Iorge! nlghls. rental packages. lesiOns.
Box 52-IN•, Corona Del Mar, Ca. ~ mull student lbc lor AF. John 

-----·--------] 3651 
Meeting Friday, Nov. 21 at 3 p.m.
92625. Call 6251 or 10.0 my favorite D.J.? Next lime maybe
WANTED and Monday, Nov. U at 4 p.m. In
you'll ploy "Seplember" lor met 

UGLY DUCKLING RENT-A-CAR --·--------·--·--..-·. ~ NEED 4 AIR FORCE TICKETS. WILL PAY Need 2 Air Force GA's: Call Jim at The Little Theater, Room 1C,
Take care. Luv, Molly. p.a. 1 heard 

THANKSGIVING SPECIAL. • dayl. -----------------TOP DOLLAR. CALL JOHN 1629. 32.0 
Lafortune. Call Davtd al 259-1378.
you have an elghl seater volkl­Need ride lor 3 to BUFFALO,N.Y. lor$39.95 wtth 200 lrH mllea. Phone Deadline lo join Is Nov. 28.

NEED MANY STUDENT TIX FOR AIR wagon -lsllset lor the sugar bowl? 
T.G. Break. Will share $$ Call Rich uttle sister wllh polio wants to see255·2323 lor reMtVallonl. 
FORCE -BITZ. 233-2865.
1739 Air Force game -needs tlckel. Need ride Ia Harllord, Connecllcut
ATTENTION SPORTS STAFFERS: THERE 

PART nME JOB. Ideal lot Sludenll. Wanls to bring 3 orphan friends. 
lot Thanklglvlng. Would like lo
Need Air Force GA Tickets WILL BE A MEETING TODAY AT 6:30
NEED: RIDE TQ-FRO KANSAS CITY
Telephone work !rom our olllce Call Pol al 4553. 
leave Tuesday; will share driving
PAY MUCH$$$ P.M. MANDATORYIIIAREA FOR THANKSGIVING III!EAK.
(E.-.nlng houl'l) Call Nancy 232­and expenMa. Call Marybeth al
SHARE USUAl. CALL PAT AT 1592. Call 283-8609 Need 4 Air Force lbt Call Ralph 277­
8956 To lhe cutes! redhead In Carroll 
277-2038. Need someone to do color slide Hall: Break a leglll P.S. 1promise I'll
Desperately need ma•y AIR FORCE 8561. ST. LOUIS RIDE LINE: Call 3479 lot nX • GA or STUDENT. Will pay TOP NEED MANY AIR FORCE STUDENTS a
printing lor me. Must be able lo All Farce llckell needed. 6 GA and 3 come see your room one ol these 
paplble arrangement•. 
print up to 8" by 1 0". Prices DOLLAR. Call KARL at 1579. lludenl. Please call Dawn #7870. days!II GA'S CALL GUNNER AT .53L.BIG BUCKSIII
ST. LOUIS CLUB TAILGATER: Sat, Nov negotiable. Call Jolin at 3106. For sale Student Basketball and Help Need Many Air Force Stu. IIX PralePional typing. Term papers, ----------------­
22 on GrHn field In front ol Sr. Bor. Hockey ncketa. Call 3320. HEY MEN, WOULD YOU LIKE TO SPEND
Need AIR FORCE tlx. Sludent or GA. Call Mike 1434 manuscrlpfs. thesla. Error flee. $2 
Look lot 1lgn on backllop. ? call THOSE LONG, COLD, LONELY WINTER
Call Tom 1020. page. Barron Services, 1408 Elwood,
HELPIII I NEED FOUR GA'S OR IWO 
need student llcketa lor air Ioree PAIRS OF GA'S FOR AIR FORCE. CAll 
3479 NIGHTS WITH TEN (10) SCANTILY
289-7949. 

Helplll Need ride to WASHINGTON, game call mike at 17o48 CLAD CO-EDS? IF SO, YOU MAY BEWill do lyplng, rea10nable rates. 
3245.

D.C. and back tor Thanksgiving. A warning Ia mlacettaneaus folks THE INTERHALL BASKETBALL COACH
Call 287-5162. UNDERPRMLEGED CHILDREN coming
Call Tam 1020. and o110rled SMC chiCI, wlnler II
-------Save a 11181 BleP me with • Air Force from Maryland lor Air Force game. THAT LEWIS HALL IS LOOKING FOR. Old comics lor sale. Also baseball here, and once the snows arrive,
IIIDE NEEDED TO INDY FOR THANKS­GA'I ($$$)1 Greg 275.4 10 PM+ Will pay lor students or GA'S... Call FOR DETAILS ON THIS FABULOUS. cards, paperbackl and hardbacks. Captain VIdea and hl1 space ONCE IN A LIFETIME OFFER, CAlL
-4531.... alk lor Lea

GIVING BREAK. CAN LEAVE TUESDAY. 
KING'S BOOKS. 2033 S. Michigan, NEED AIR FORCE TIX. CALL TOM 
cadets. featuring Reno, and Maxi ELLEN AT ~30 OR CLARE AT 6679 RlANCIE 288-8734. 
~uth Bend. Ind. Open Mondaylhru BETWEEN 6 AND 8, 234-5782 the wonder moose, will be oul JudyZ., Kolle C., Maureen F .• Barbaro isd!Ufday 9:30-6:00. Need ride to Phlily area lor T.G. Will pllloglng the campua. Sa, If you lind
RESCUE MEl I need lwo Air Force B., et.aL:
------share usual. Maureen •n1. yourself bombarded by snowballls Hey all you N-Jerseylam-There The parly Is over
nckelll Please Call 289-8955 
BOSTON CLUB XMAS BUS SIGNUP, loleat nlghlbymasked characters­jwlu be a N.J. Club Tallgater before Neec:tec:t: 2-3 rides to PIH. lor T.G. ·don't say you weren't warned. Drunk 11 lhe bee~
SOSII I really need 1 GA ticket to AF MONDAY Nov 2•. 7-9 In Lafortune. the Air Farce game. II will be on Break. Call •21• (SMC) The recovery Is complete,
game.Piease call Pat @ 455.4 •• Bring $50 NON REFUND. deposit.jGrMn Field by lhe soHballlence oil But just watt 1111 nexl yea~
The FINAL deadline lor appllcallonsWanted: Drummer and electric Price approx $106 round trip. Dales 
N.D. Avenue. look lor our algn and Make 2 llnte kids happy. Donate 2 to the SOCIAL CONCERNS SEMINAR Th'lnkl lor a greal #UI ror
gullarlsls to complete musical will be given then. Questions-Mike 
Alr Force tickets Ia Volunteer In WASHINGTON, D.C. Is FRIDAY In group playing anything lrom AI 2836
bring your N.J. license. See you on -Bud the Spud 
Saturdaytll Servlcet, Lafortune Center. Drop oil the Center lor Experiential Learning 
S1ewart lo Rickie Lee Janes lor lun. All Brothei'I/Big Slslel'l who
(11th ltoor Library). Big
anytime. ST. ED'S INTERHALL FOOTBALL 
~------------Call Dan al 8340 or Marcy at 2169. would like tickets lo the Air Force
CHAMPS. 6-0·0 ROLL HEADS ROLL Sectulb Rlld Is at presenl residing on

NEED MANY GA AND STUDENT TIXS game lor lhelr Lillie, ahould call
DESPERATELY need ride to Phllade~ 
campus.

CALL STEVE 233-5933. These losers want lobewinners lora John Pinter at 3218 before Salurday.
--L<?ST/FOUND..J 
phla lor Thanklglvlng. Can leave UNTO RILD FOREVER!change. Vole KATZENBERGER­nckell may be p4eked up Salurday,
anytime aller game. Call Karin •1-Need Air Force lbc. student or GA. LOST: Blue backpack outside ol HERMAN lor UGLY ROOMMATES ON DMM, Nav.mber 22, before 11:15 AM In
4427 Please call Ken at 1863. 
Dillon on Halloween night. II round CAMPUS. (When you least expect It· You ore entirely welcome! 109 Keenan. pleaM call Jean at o4581. 1!-ard. Need a ride to Dayton lor Thankl­NEEDED: Fourteen TICKETS to AIR expecl Ill) 
To the "General Bago " Crew; 16 NEED TWO STUDENT TICKETS FOR AIRglvlng, can leave Tues. or Wed. -FORCE tor RELIGIOUS Youth GROUP Sick al dull, boring parties? Tired of guys and dolls lrom Flghtln' Irish
OST-a pair ol women's glopes pleaMcall Beth at277-8037 or283-......-call7443 FORCE GAME-Call Ann 277-8037 !two weeki ago. Brown, with sun-lint 1715. 
standing around drinking and land Took a bago on a trip: we'U 

ATTENTION All NEW JERSEYIANS-­Mnsltlve lensea. II round, please 
Need 2 Air Force ticket• lor lamlly; checking aul how many lzods call II Alobam." With lwo kegs and THE N.J. CLUB IS HAVING A TAILGATER
Need ride lo Muskegon Mlch this sludent or GA. Call 68•0. come through lhe door? II you are, 10me tunes, drlvln' lhru lhe day By
lean 277-8037 or 1715 and ask lor ON ~TURDAY MORNING BEFORE THE
weekend, will share expenses etc. then you need rent-a-riot al yout the lime we reached our goal, we
Beth. 1!-ard. 
PLEASEIIIII need Air Force tickets. Six AIR FORCE GAME. IT WILL BE ON 
~-----Call Greg al 345• next party. You supply lhe alcohol, were well on our way. Partied hard 
logether or sell ollwo. PLEASE call GREEN FIELD BY THE SOFTBALL FENCE
LOST: SllVEl! ZIPPO LIGHTER WITH three wild women will supply lhe lor days lo come, the nights were
I neec:t. a ride to Llvonlo-Delroll, Mark Rust 233-5520 or OFF N.D. AVENUE.
1715 and LOOK FOR OUR Mich. area lor Turkey Day. JOE 11•2
INITIALS NPDS CALL BRIAN 232-0550 lougha. References available upon 10methln' else Riding bills, swim­
leave a message. SIGN AND BRING YOUR N.J. LICENSE.
request. Reply through this column. ming, saunas; with lood we slulledLost: A dark blue/royal blue COME ON OUT AND PARTY WITH

Need ride Ia Columbus, Springfield, Need one G.A. and one Student Air You name lhe place, we'll be therel ourselves. That' al Hilton took It bad,
re.-.rslble down vest (men'asmall) 
YOUR FRIENDS FROM N.J. HOP£ TO
or Betlelontalne, Ohio, over Thanks­we demolished every floor. Song In' 
Force TIX PLEASE. Call Nancy 5771
or Gulueppe'1 Friday night. lllound. Oh, how tackyt SEE YOU THEREIII
giving break. Willing to share cost. Irish songs "abaul lhem dogs" 1111
SMC. Call Jim at 1•12. DEAR DIANE: Bod reputallons are we could sing na more. Pete and
pleaM coli Mary Pat........ •·1·•272 
WANTED: lnlarmatlon leading Ia the LOST; Grey Wool Winter Coolat SMC not based solely on cloPIIIed ada. Dove had their ftlngs, and we ALL whereabouts orSteven G. Reynolda,
need sludent or GA Air Force I need a ride Ia Iowa lor Thankl­
tickets: call Jane 661• or 7704 spilled some beer. Billy was an
Holy Cra..Fionner sem~larmal. 51111, I apologize lhat II could be 219 Pangborn Hall. Wanled lot
glvlng. Call Jim at 1073 emcee and Sully was In high gear.
Call Mary Rulh-•348. HELP! I need 3 sludenl tickets lor misinterpreted, and hope you questioning. Contact N.D. Securlly
Fornan manned the kegs while

HELPII NEED RIDE TO MARQUETTE realize that II was a joke. I'm sotry ot lndlona Stale Pollee. UNIV. THIS WEEKEND-NOV.21STOR and hope that I'm forgiven. Can we 
.----···------wild lrlends. Ken 2839 or •253 $$ 
lhavtng cream stopped Flome. liltFOR RENT j uac tickets lor sale. 2 together. best -en·t lor Chip and st-. we Mike, Thankl lor the great weeltend.
22ND. CALL -'392 (SMC) MOllY. be friends? 
oller. bob 1739 never would have came. Dancing. N.D. Is twice as GREAT when you are 
~--------· 
NEED RIDE TO D.C./N.Va. for Thankl­Johnny Rape, Take a hike you lagl drinking, pillow lights helped here! See you soon Honl
rov1sh Ia IUblel • pel'lan NO apl. tor us 
t need 2 sludenl llckels Ia Air Force. 
glvlng bteak. Can leave any lime lfsllme to get a cluel Iorge! the bookl. II Birmingham Love.
iaecond seme1ter. $90 each/month Call128o4
aller 1112•. Call Dave 1222. had policed, they'd think we all Little E.
lptus share ullllllea. Secure; 10 Isn't that defamation of character?
DESPERATELY NEED 2 GA TIX FOR AIR 
were crooks. Goad limes with goadminute walk lo campus. Call 233· I DESPI:RATELY NEED A RIDE TO 

FORCE. BIG BUCKSII CAll 1623 Sandi, Do you have a HUNGRY
ATTENTION COPYEDITORS: 
friends· and rolling back the Tide,

2631 AND/OR FROM D.C. AREA OVER HEART?
MANDATORY MEETING SUNDAY AT 1

DESPERATE NEED OF AIR FORCE TIX. Gave us all the Incentive lorTHANKSGIVING 8REAKII CALL JOHN
~D A.-.. 2 lklrm, lum. apt w/slreet PLEASE HELP. CAlL EILEEN AT 80.2. P.M. IN THE NEWSROOM. QUESTIONS another road lllp ride. Thankl to all Everybody has a hungry heart. 
3093 AFTER 10 PM.

~ 2-• people reasonable 2~­CALL 7992. you guys lot a lrlp lhal really rolled, Need, 2 GA's Ia Air Force call Don How do you make a pizza In the
Pa21 need a ride to Cleveland Monday We'll have Ia "acare another one,"
SUE ~FRANKO-HAPPY BIRTHDAY

1530 Yukon?
nlghl ot Tuesday lor Thanklglvtng maybe at the BowMII
~SE FOR RENT. clean, comlart­COWGIRLIIISHOULD WE GO TO 
A: With loll or mooMrella ch-ILovewill share $$$. Call 3168 anytime. nNeect 2 GAl for Air Force. Mlke234­
iable, 3 bedfooms, 2 baths, near HOJO'S TO CELEBRATE??? 
6351 The Girts Ryan
icamPUI 289·3668 Need ride to Louisville lor T.G. LOVE, Sue, Sue, Mary, Cathy, Mary, MIPy, Thankl lor your moos! gracious
break. Share $/drlvtng L ..8680 NEED 2 AIR FORCE STUDENT OR GA MARILYN ~ bdrm house lor rent, lmmed. Theresa. Lealie under1tandlng See you Mon night
TIX ·CAll TONY ~13
ioccupancy, cloM to campus, DESPERATE! Ride needed Ia Akron JR. Clan Happy Hour at MARIO'S lot the airport escort.Hav. you IOid your Mardi Gras
partially rum., good condition. CaN area lot T.G. break. Will share usual. Help, t need 2 Air Force Tbc. sludenl Frlday4-7 YOUI'I In Yukon,
tlckell yel?

1187-11361 alter 7 p.m. CaM AIHa 7905. • or GA. Call Mary Claire ,4027 SMC Eileen and Jeannie 
----------------------------------------~~~---------------------­
-~~-­



SI>orts 
Face Irish 

Poland invades ACC 

by Skip Desjardin Sports Wrr{er 

The Russians aren't coming. 
For the past several years, Notre Dame has opened its home basketball schedule with an exhibition game against the Russian National Team. Perhaps the word "exhibition" puts the games in the wrong context, because both teams played those games to win, and the intensity was often greater than in some regular season games. 
This year, the Russians are not wming to the United States. They have been banned from wmpeting here, after they failed to live up to several game com­mittments. So Athletic Director Edward "Moose" Krause and head coach Digger Phelps have brought in the national team from Poland. 
While the Poles are not of the 
caliber that the Russians were, 
they are a very talented team 
nonetheless. A week ago, they 
beat a tough Clemson team by 
five points, then went out and 
downed Kent State by 18 on the 
very next night. 

Poland has sent a big, physical team that features two out­standing shooters. Mieczyslaw Mlynarski leads the team in scoring, as he did in the 1980 Summer Olympics. Mlynarski was the seventh leading scorer in the Moscow Games, as the Poles finished seventh overall. Eugeniusz Kijewski is a 25-year­old veteran with a fine outside shot. 
The two guards lead a rugged Polish team into the ACC for tonight's 8:00p.m. start. Tickets are available at $2.00 for lower arena seats and $1.50 for bleachers to all Notre Dame and St. Mary's students. There are general admission seats available for the public as well, at $5.00 and $3.50. All tickets will be available through game time. 
The Poles are all good shooters, and Coach Zbigniew Felski stresses execution. As one Irish coach puts it, "they may only do five different things on the basketball court, but they do them extremely well." 
Their weakness may be in their mechanical style of play. They tend to fast break to spots on the floor rather than to players. This takes a lot ofthe imagination out of their · offense. 
Coach Digger Phelps' Irish squad will try to outrun the Poles. The coaching staff feels that the size advantage that the Poles hold will force Notre Dame to apply constant pres­sure, in an attempt to keep the Polish big men from posting up. 
"We'll have to take away their outside shots, and keep them away from the boards," the coaches agree. "It'll be a tough assignment.' 
Irish fans will get a chance to see a game played under in­ternational rules, which differ somewhat from those that col­lege biisketball fans are used to. The game will feature a thirty second clock, much like the 24 second clock employed by the NBA. Shooting fouls will result in a "three to make two" situation at the foul line. Each team will be allowed eight team fouls per half, after which fouled players get two shots, rather than the customary "one and the bonus". 
Other rule changes include time limitations, five seconds to take a free throw and three seconds to make an in-bounds pass; technical fouls count as personal and team fouls, and toward player disqualification; 
(continued on page 10] 
Breen-Phillips defeats title challenger Farley 
Trailing 12-8 at the half, a determined Breen-Phillips squad bounced back and scored 16 unanswered points to down previously unbeaten Farley 24-12 in women's interhall football last night, marking the second straight year BP has won the flag title. 
In the game's opening drive, Farley's Kim Huot scampered 45 yards to give her team a 6-0 lead. Farley's defense took over and forced B·reen-Phillips to punt on their first possesion, but a fumble on the return gave BP the ball in Farley territory. From the ten, Kathy McMahon took it in on a sweep, and a·successful two-point conversion run by Kathy Walsh put BP in frqnt 8-6. 
Farley came right back on their next possesion, when quarterback Cindy Batte! tossed a 5 yard strike toHuotas the first half ended. 
The second halfs opening play proved to be the turning point in last night's contest, as McMahon broke loose from the Far1ey defense and bolted 50 yards for a Breen-Phillips touchdown. Another successful conversion run by Walsh put her team up for good, 16-12. 
< 
Bre.en-Phillips' defense stiffened, forcing Farley to give the ball nght back. The BP offense wasted no time, sending Kathy Adams in the endzone from the 40 yard line. Quarterback Karen Fleck completed a pass to Peggy Owens for the conversion. 
Farley had ample opportunity to score late in the second half, but two key interceptions by BP'sJanSchlaffand Karen Alig thwarted the drives. 
The victory avenged BP's overtime loss to Farley in the season opener. Breen-Phillips will face a squad from Saint Mary's during An Tostal this spring. 
L-----------------------------------------------------------------------------~­
Thursday, November 20, 1980-page 12 
by-Brian.Beglane Sports Writer 
TheNotre Dame hockey team will sport a new look-literal­ly-tomorrow night and Saturday at the ACC when it hosts Michigan Tech in its first home Western Collegiate Hockey Association series. 
The Irish, 5-5 overall and tied for sixth in the WCHA with a3-3 mark, put their "Cooperalls"­
pants, ifyou will-to the test on home ice for the second time. 
The innovative hockey pants, manufactured by the Cooper Company, offer considerably more· protection and more mobility to the player. That combination, according to coach Lefty Smith, should make the pants catch on in the ne,ar future. 
"I came across the pants at the American Hockey Coaches Convention over the summer," said Smith. "We bought one pair on an experimental basis and tried them out. The players liked them so much we ordered them for the-whole team and they have worked out just fine. 


"We suffered through a lot of injuries last year and that cer­tainly was on our minds in buying the pants. I would definitely say they have saved us a few injuries so far this season.'' ' The innovation in protection comes from the new padding worn around the hip area. Called a girdle, it is similar to football pants in nature. The pads are placed into pockets surrounding the hip and offer protection all the way down to the knee. They are more lightweight and air­holes throughout the girdle offer more breathing room. 
And since the pads are held in place by pockets, they do notslip during play--a key in cutting down on injuries and affording more mobility. 
"We realize the pants are something new and a lot of people around the league look at them as a joke of sorts," said Smith. "But those people, too, should realize soon the better protection the pants offer. In three years, most colleges and most NHL teams will probably be wearing them." 
But for now, the Irish stand as the only major team-college or pro-in the country which is using the pants in game action. 
Notre Dame still puts its pants on one leg at a time. The pants are just a little different. 
IRISH ICINGS: Tomorrow night's faceoff is ·scheduled for 8 
p.m. while Saturday's game will 
(continued on page 10] 
Rozelle to speak to congress 

WASHINGTON (AP)­
Commissioner Pete Rozelle of the National Football League will tell Congress today there is no need for federal legislation to provide criminal penalties for players using excessive violence during a sports event. 
Rozelle heads the list of of­ficials from the major sports leagues who will appear before 
-the second hearing of a House crime subcommittee, chaired by Rep. John Conyers Jr., D/Mich., on the bill that would penalize a player, if found guilty of using excessive violence, up to a $5,000 fine or a year in jail, or both.. 
Rozelle's position, as stated in a memorandum to the com­mittee before the first hearing, is that no federal legislation is necessary because the NFL can police itself. 
In that vein, Rozelle was to testify a day after Chicago Bears safety Doug Plank was in the commissioner's office to appeal a $1,000 fine levied for "spearing" Tampa Bay tight end Jimmie Giles in a nationally televised Oct. 6 Monday night game. 






