
...lions, tigers, & bears -page 6 

VOL.XV NO. 13 an independenr student new~aper servi notre dame and sainr mary's TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 9, 1980 
University renovates ballroom 
Psych Services establishes goals 
by Kelli Flt~,t Senior Staff Reporter 
The Department of Psych­ological Services has estab­lished its goals and activities for this year, which include in­creased activity with hall staffs and a spring symposium on alternative lifestyles, according to Department director Patricia Crosson. 
Psychological Services will begin thier campus-wide ac­tivities by sending cards de­veloped by the state highway patrol to all undergraduate residence halls. The graph on the front of the card represents two factors that determine the blood/alcohol content in the body: body weight and the amount of alcohol consumed. The graph indicates how much alcohol can be consumed be­fore driving is impaired. 
"The cards were developed as a warning for people stopped for careless driving," Crosson said. "With Goose's closed and a question about Corby's fu­ture, our staff fears an increase in students driving to get to bars. We hope that the cards motivate students to become more responsible in their drinking." 
According to Crosson, Psychological Services is still working on the data received from last year's student alcohol survey. "We're working on last year's data to develop pre­should be compiled by
dictors of students at risk of Christmas. . becoming alcoholics," Crosson Crosson cited two goals for said. "Last year's survey in­the coming year. dicated that students enter the "Our first goal is to work witlo University with drinking habits the hall staffs," Crosson said. and generally don't change "We plan on providing films, during their stay here. These tapes, and role plays to help the students don't come in for help hall staffs spot and intervene in themselves and aren't sent in alcohol-related problems. We for disciplinary action." are also actively encouraging 
Crosson added that Notre 
contin11ed on page 3
Dame is not the only campus with student drinking 
problems. "There is reason to 
think that the entire nation has 'At the copa... , 
this problem, which begins in 
junior high school and con­
tinues into college," she said. ' Psychological Services ad­
Another jet takes detour 
ministered two voluntary sur­
veys to freshmen this year, 
TAMP A , F 1a. (A P) --A

according to Crosson. 
Florida-bound Eastern Airlines
"The first survey was an 
jet with 88 people aboard was 
anonymous profile on thier 
hijacked to Cuba yesterday by a 
attitudes towards alcohol and 
S_panish-speaking man who car· 
drug use," Crosson said. "The 
ned a bottle of liquid and 
second survey dealt with their threatened to set ftre to the health situation. This survey plane, authorities said. gave the freshmen an oppor­Cuban government soldiers tunity to explore their health took the man into custody after situation by answering ques­the plane's arrival at Hav~a's tions regarding their present Jose Marti Airport in the eighth ealth risks and predicting future hijack of a U.S. plane to Cuba risks. The students need not sin~e Aug. 10. . . . identify themselves on the Most of the prev10us mc1­survey, but if they do they will dents-have been blamed on 
disenchanted refugees seeking 

receive evaluations of their 
to return home. Armed sky

answers, including predictions 
marshals have begun riding

of their future health situation 
some flights since the spate of I spokesman Bob Christian said. 
and life expectancy." 
hijackings, but none was a-1 The J>lane was expected to then 
:rhe results of these surveys 
board !!.t! plane hijacked Mon-: contmue to Sarasota for its fmal 
day. 
The Boeing 727 was comman· dered over Charleston, S.C., about an hour after its 9:0~ a.m. EDT departure from New York's John F. Kennedy Air­port for Tampa and Sarasota, Eastern officials said. Flight 161, had departed Albany, N.Y. at 7:18 with about 9~ passen­gers. All but 20 deplaned at Kennedy Airport for Tampa and 62 others got on, Eastern officials said. 
The plane, with six crew members, landed in Cuba at 11:~2 a.m. and, after refuelinJ, took off again and was due 10 Tamps by 3:30 p.m., Eastern 

This is not the first time that President for Student Affairs, plans have been drawn up with was instrumental in the discus­the goal of better utilization of sion surrounding New Chau­the ballroom in mind. Last May, tauqua. He called New Chau­a group of students, headed by tauqua "a well thought out 
John Amato, presented a pro-plan." According to Van posal entitled New Chautau-Wolvlear, "Money wa.> the only qua. A carefully researched problem." He pointed out that eighteen page report, which many campus groups do work included possible costs, a ten-for free, and he felt that the tative budget, and an adver-students coordinating Nt·w tising campaign, was submitted Chautauqua should do t!-te to the administration, and the same. .John Amato disagre~d. Board of Trustees. It was "WewantedtobecompenS;lted received enthusiastically. New for our work,'' Amato said. Chautauqua, which would have Consequently, the plans fell 
1
featured  professional jazz, i through.  
blues, folk, and rock groups in a  While Amato is disappointed  
coffeehouse atmosphere where  ·  that New Chautauqua did not  
fruits,  nuts,  and  exotic  non- succeed, he is still in favor of  
alcoholic beverages would have  any efforts to turn the ballroom  
been served, died a quiet death  into a place where students can  
in late May. The plans hit a snag  go  to  see  professional  enter­ 
when salaries were discussed.  
Fr. John Van Wolvlear, Vice- continued on page 3  

Off·campus crime victims return to dorm 
by David Rickaba11gfJ 
Off-campus Notre Dame students Rick Valencia and Steve Hoey 
have decided to return to a University dorm following the 
September 3 armed robbery of their 1121 h. Corby St. residence. 
The two will reside in Fisher Hall for the remainder of their senior 
year. . • 
Reflecting on the incident Valencia commented "We were 
looking forward for a great senior year but the robbery has covered 
it like a dark cloud." 

Hoey criticized the administration for not providing safe off­campus housing. He suggested that the administration take steps to correct the housing problem by building in the low crime area north of the campus. Hoey stated his dismay by predicting, "They'll talk and talk but take no action. That's what they did when 
Joe Camarda got shot." Camarda was shot in 1978 during an attemptearobbery of his Corby Ave. home. 
The investigation into the incident has produced no new developements. South Bend Police have denied reports that three suspects were brought in for questioning. The police said they are concentrating on theories other than the belief that the robbery was an act of revenge from an earlier incident on the afternoon of the break-in. 
When asked how he felt about the way S.B.P.D. has been conducting the investigation, Hoey comm~nted that they were moving too slow. "The detectivt·s questioned us after the robbery Wednesday night but then not ;lgain until Monday morning." 
stop, he said. FBI agents said they wouldn't know much about the hijacker until the flight crew was debriefed in Tampa. ''He spoke no English and said in Spanish he wanted to go to Cuba,'' said agent Welton Merry. Eastern spokesman Jim Ash­lock at the airline's Miami headquarters said the plane was commandeered by one male passenger with "a bottle of something who wanted to go to Cuba.'' 'Everybody's safe", Ashlock added. It was the third hijacking involving Eastern in less than a tnonth. 

Purdue's buxom Golden Girl shown here at Sat11rday's game will have a tough time reconciling Q11arterback Mark Hermann to the Boilermaker's fall to number 20 in the AP standings. See page 9. (photo by joh~ Macor.) 
by Tim Vercelotti StaffReporter 
Plans are currently under way to make better use of the ball­room on the second floor of LaFortune. The project, headed by Fr. Mario Pedi, Assistant Dir~of Student Activities, wilf'Tri'VOI"'ve the installation of a stage, and sound and lighting systems. It would then be pos­sible to have concerts given by professional groups, dances, and theatrical productions in the ballroom. 
The ballroom project comes at a time when the student body is appealling to the administration for more social space. According to Pedi, these plans are an effort to make use ofthe present space. "The idea was to do something with the ballroom and make it acceptable for concerts, dances, and plays," Pedi explained. 
The administration has al­ready received estimates for the installation of a stage, to be located in the south alcove of the ballroom, and a lighting system. The most difficult aspect of the plans, as Fr. Pedi sees it, are the acoustics in the ballroom. Professionals are scheduled to assess the ac'Jus­tical possibiliti~s later this week. Barring any problems, Pedi is hoping for an opening date shortly after the mid-
semester break. 

.. 


News Briefs 
by The Observer and The Associated Press 
a new airline arwou~ccd phns yesterday for a 
I>ec. 14 inauguration ofcut-rate shuttle service between the 
111etropolitan New York Art·a and Washington. Flights to 
Boston arc scheduled for early in 1981 and plans call for 
eventual service to 15 cities within 700 miles of here. 
The new carrier is New York Air, a subsidiary ofTexas Air Corp., w.1ich will provide $25 million in seed money to launch the new service. It also will supply the initial fleet of ~ix I_ I ';-passenger DC9-30 jets, New York Air said at a news l'O 11 il'rl'll<. e. 
The airline announced plans to pml!ide 10 weekday roundtrip flights between I.a<;uardia and \X'ashington and Boston airports and eight on Saturdays and Sundays. 
It plans eventually to e,;tend operatiom to Indianapolis, Albany, Rochester, Syranse and Buffalo, 1.\'. Y.; Cleveland, <:incinnati, l>ayton and Columbus, Ohio; Detroit, Pitts­burgh ;,nd Newark.AP 
George Wobil, the Notre Dame student from Ghana whodisappeared for three days after setting offforashopping spree at Scottsdale Mall, has returnedto the University safe and sound. Wobil, who was lastseen asking for directions hack to thl· ND campus aweck ago, returned to his friends and rootntnates afterspcnding time with relatives in Baltimore, Md. 
elkhart, ind.? Band instrument manu­
lacturing capital of the world?? A businessman who wanted It> establish this monopoly has spent over $HO million for a dozen nlltsic companies, induding one that began in hlkhart 100 Yl'ars ago. Daniel .J. Henkin, 50, a f(>rtner CBS vice president, finalized the deal for C.G. Conn and 11 other music companies with Macmillan Inc. The $HO million tran~action, inc~uding assets and financing, was the. largest sale rn hrstorv of musical instrument manufacturing facilities to an individual. 
. ~ 
Camoaien workers for independent 
presidentiaft·andilti'tc John Anderson were given an extra dayycsterday to come up with the needed signaturesto get Anderson running-mate Patrick Lucey on theNovember ha llot. 
The ncn·ssar~· signature.-; weren· t there when thedeadline rolled around ~·eo;terday, hut an error gavethe Anderson campaign another 24 hours for a secondattempt. 
To place the former Wisconsin governor's name on thchallot with Anderson, campaign workers need to colkct(l,9H2 signatures. Anderson's state campaign coordinator,Anne Rogers. said only about .~.600 signatures weregathercd in a weekend petition drive. 
avoid the minefields, keep your 
head low and keep the sergeant happy said George Bush in 
describing the race for vice president. 
[n ;tn intervh.·w \\'ith the Associated Press after his first full 
\\'\'l'k nfl·.tmpa igning as Ronald Reagan·s running mate, Bush 
said: 
"It's Iike nnt sec some recruit at Fort Dix. 'Okav bovs,let's 
.til go out t;l the firing range and those bullets wl~izzii1g o~er 
nntr he.td arl' .tlin•. So stav down low· . 
. The ml'taphor comes ·easil~· to the Rt'publican vice 
presidential nominee, who spent much oflast week avoiding 
the p(llitiral hoobytraps laid by Reagan's offhard, con· 
tun·l·rsial commt•nts and dodging what seemed like constant 
st r.t fing frll1ll the press..-1 I' 
Free cocktails were sen·ed by three gunmen w theirse\'l'ral hostages after botching a robberv in .tsuhurhan Portland steakhouse. The gunmen ·later dem;ttllkd $500.000 and a getaway n:hicle: Fh·e hostages 
\H're released, but seven were still held inside atmiddav as sheriffs dcpu ties and FBI agents surroundedthe building·in a twrthwest neighborhood. The incidentbegan shortly before midni~ht Sunday, as the Ringsidebtst was getting ready to dose for the night, saidl\laril~·n Stafford. 41, of Gresham, a customer. She saidthe men burst in waving guns. "They said, 'Hit thetloor or we are going to shoot you,'" she said. "Iwas shaking real bad." 
A 70 percent chance of rain Tuesday with highs in theupper 70s and lower 80s. Clearing and cooling Tuesdaynight and Wednesday. Lo}VsTuesday night in the mid toupper 40s. Highs Wednesday in the upper 60s and low 70s. 
Inside Tuesday Tuesday, September 9, 1980 page 2 

_ Communications pointers 
Communication. 
It's one of my favorite words, but apparently 
it's not one of the University's. Notre Dame is 
unique in many ways, some good, some bad, but 
today I'm going to take a look at one area of this 
school's academics which is begging for im­
provement. 
And once again the word is communication. 
Why does Notre Dame, with its fine tradition in 
liberal arts and humanities, lack a truly 
comprehensive and respectable communica­
tions major program? 
Indeed, why do we? Anyone who's ever read 
this column knows thatJohn McGrath is not one 
for offering pie-in-the-sky solutions to com­
plicated problems, and I'm certainly notgoing to 
start a bad precedent this week. Notre Dame has 
no excuse for not offering one of the best 
communications-journalism related fields of 
study in the nation, so I'm proposing exactly 
that course of action. 
How many colleges with a student population 
of under 10,000 have four radio stations, a 
television station, a daily newspaper, and a 
magazine? The answer's pretty obvious and to 
my way of thinking, pretty embarassing. Not 
many. 
With a media collection like that, it's 
inexcusable that Notre Dame doesn't have an 
outstanding communication arts program. 
We don't. Instead, we have a kind ofshadowy, 
ill-defined department over in O'Shaughnessy 
known as American Studies. Don't get me 
wrong-I'm not trying to malign what AmStd. 
people are trying to do (I almost became one 
myself)--I'm just trying to present a case for a 
vastly improved journalism-communications 
program which could very well use American 
Studies as its foundation. 
Invariably, discussions of curriculum 
expansion and departmental creation boil down 
to one gigantic stumbling block: money. 
Normally, that's where a suggestion like the one. 
I'm about to make dies, but for me, money is 
where the consideration starts. 
The major cost ofwidening programs ofstudy 
or creating new departments lies in physical 
improvements. Consider, for example, if I were 
to propose the creation of a Notre Dame 
Department ofAstronomy. First off, millions of 
dollars worth of telescopic equipment would 
probably be needed. Then millions more would 
be required for a building to house the e­
quipment. Then start-up costs for faculty and 
administration would total hundreds of thou­-sands more. Out of the question? Probably. 
But what about a journalism-communications 
program on a serious scale? WNDU is about to 
embark on construction of new studios to more 
than double its size on the western end of 
campus near U.S. 31. Provisions have been 
incorporated for telecommunications pro­
grams. Television and radio components of the 
proposed new major would thus be readv-made 
in new facilities right on campus ~ithout 
millions of dollars of physical plant outlay; and 
more than anything else, they would be ready 
immediatelv. 
WSND -AM and FM radio also offer 
opportunities for the University to offer 

John 
McGrath 
News Editor 
practical experience -and credit hours-to potential communications-journalism majors. Some supervision and classroom coordination with on-the-air experience would be needed, but it goes unsaid that the keys to both stations are already held under the Golden Dome. 
Then there's the print media component of the possible major. The Univwersity already subsidizes Scholastic, so arrangements could be easily made there for incorporation ofthe major into practical experience credits for potential students. 
Then don't forget The Observer. We're in­dependent of the University-the only practical experience component of my plan which is organized as such-but an arrangement could be worked out to the mutual benefit ofboth the journalism-communications department and our organization as far as providing program-related work-study exper­ience with their major. 
The bottom line is this: a journalism communications major would not only be cost­efficient in terms of low start-up and operation costs-profes.>ionals working for WNDU and other organizations could act as class instructors to insure uniform quality and individual challenge-but would also be immensely appealing to a large segment of today's college­age population. 
There are many students at this University who have been locked into other majors not entirely along t~ lines of their preferences, and many of those have a real interest in the field of journalism, and more generally, in the field of communications. 
I'm not going to harp on the fact that liberal arts classes have been thinning in recent years­
it's a fact. But one area in which there's been a growing interest is journalism. hver since Watergate, journalism and communications have taken on a new appeal, and in financial terms, that strong interest translates into full classes and break-even, if not profitable departments. 
Practically, financially, and academically, I think I've provided a good argument for the possible establishment of a journalism communications program of study. The fa­cilities are already in place, many faculty members from American Studies and pro­fessionals at WNDU could double as supervisors and journalism department profs, and the demand for such a program of study has been proven nationwide. 
I'll be the first to admit that there are many unforeseen and potentially insurmountable problems which lie in the path offorming a new department like journalism-communications, but before anyone rules it out, let's all seriously consider a program of study which could increase Arts and Letters enrollment and add to the academic and career fulfillment of Notre Dame students. 


POCO 



_The.Qbs.etY-er­
ne.rign Editor Ryan 'No Dol.· Ver Berkmoes A.r.rt. D,·.rigll Editor Eileen Murphy Cop , r.;ditor
J St Jf Carol Mullanev 
Dl'.ftgll UJJ • 
Anne Murray, Kyle & Mary Jo Night Tecb11idan JohnChaussee Nt•u•.r Editor Margie Brassil 
Ed layout Randy Jennings Feature.r Loyoilf .Mollv Woulfe Spo•t.r Lt1.\'011t Micha.el Ortman 
NJ) Dal' Editor Patsy Campbell Ad Layout Mike Holsinger Pbotograpber Greg Maurer 
The Obatrvtr (USPS 598 920) Is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. Tilt ObMrvtr Is published by the students of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased lor $20 per year ($10 per semester) by writing Tilt Obatrvtr, P.O. Box 0, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame. Indiana 46556. 
Tilt Observer Is a member of the · Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

in eoneert Pri., Sept. 19. 
Tiekets now-on sale No lottery
first eome, first serve Tiekets available at the Student Union Tieket Olliee And the ACC $6.50 8 $7.50 

Artists series paints 
• 


The University Artist Series will once again be presented for benefit and enjoyment ofall the students. 
The Artist Series will be held every Wednesday night throughout the year and will concentrate on classical music. The Michiana Pops will be performing this Wednesday night on the lawn in front of LaFo.:une at 7 p.m. 
Besides orchestral music, the 
programs  will  include  piano  
concerts,  jazz  bands,  opera  
singers,  and  Medieval and  

Renaissance music. Fr. Richard Conyers, the director of the Artist Series, says,"We hope to add significant cultural dimen­sion into the students' lives with this series. We will concentrate on the serious music but in the 

picture of fun 
near future we hope to add dance and dramatic readings to the program." 
In the past the series was run jointly by the Music Depart­ment and Student Affairs, but this year the programs will be funded solely through the Student Affairs budget. Con­yers commented, "One pro­blem in the past was. that students thought the Artist Series_ was for those in the Music Department." Helping Con­yers in the capacity of assistant is sophomore Robert Gorman, a resident ofKeenan. Gorman's job will be to have programs printed up and press releases made. 
Conyers's interest ·in the 
Artist Series is spurned by his 
belief that most students are 
lacking in a true cultural music 
experience. Says Gorman, "Fr. 
Conyers believes that music 
should be a central part in 
ampus life." Conyers, 
commenting on 1 his beliefs, 
says, "The students are spoon­
fed sports and news on tele~ 
vision and have not become 
acquainted with serious music. 
In b urope the . people are 
constantly exposed to serious 
music. There is practically a 
band on every corner." 
Conyers was pleased last year 
when people who wandered by 
stopped to listen to the concert 
if only for a few minutes. 
The Artist Series will con­
tinue next Wednesday with the ·Jongleurs who perform a variety of Medieval and 
Renaissance music. 
Library houses literal variety 
by Bob Bernuskit' 

Libraries today have con­siderably advanced since the clay tablet days in Mesopo­tamia. This advancement is quite evident when walking through Memorial Library. 
At its compretion, this edifice of erudition was heralded as the largest cam pus facili_ty of its kind. Volume-wise, however, the numbers were small. But that was 1963. Today the official library count is an impressive 1,310,000 volumes, discounting government documents and microfilm. 
According to Mrs. Maureen 
Gleason, Assistant Director of 
Libraries, the idea of building 
such a large structure was for 
the sake of expansion -a goal 
the library has well lived up to. 
"But it's misleading to look at 
just one floor," said Gleason, 
"since much shifting is taking 
place. Another advantage i-s 
having enough seating space so 
that the library can be a place to 
sit and read books and not just 
... Psych 

crmtin11ed from pt~ge 1 
hall staffs to help students with 
drinking problems." 
Crosson's second goal in­volves student government. "We plan on working with student gevernment to develop campus-wide ideas and pro­grams that thay will be willing to sponsor to develop alter­native lifestyles emphasizing self-control, "Crosson said. "One of our objectives is to obtain additional social space for students." 
Psychological Services has scheduled a symposium next spring to aid in the contin­uation ofthe development ofan alternative lifestyle. 
"Surveys indicate that Notre Dame students have alcohol problems,"Crosson said. "Most of these students indicated that they drink to socialize and relax. The symposium will give students a clear concept of health, and help students develop exercise skills that will benefit them for their entire lives. The symposium will also give students insight into stress management techniques." •, 
take them out." 
The acquisition of books comes from three sources: gifts, purchases or the "approval plan." The approval plan allows the library to receive books from other university and trade publishers, which are then displayed and reviewed by the staff. If academically relevant, the texts are purchased. 
Mrs. O'Bryant, Direetor of the Catalog Department, stated, "An estimated 500 titles are processed in the Catalog Dept. each week. This is an inaccurate indicator, however, since titles could represent any number of volumes." Last year 40,000 volumes were appended to the shelves. With the zeal of Ptolemy in the library at Alexandria, Mrs. O'Bryant and her staffattempt to process and shelfas many books as possible. 
Currently the library is working on three collections: Stevens, Shaw, and Woodruff. The Woodruff Collection, formerly owned by Douglas 
Woodruff,  editor  of  the  
LONDON  TABLbT,  and  
continued on page 8  


... Ballroom 
continued from page 1 
tainment. It is important that 
the University gets this thing 
established," Amato stated. 
Fr. Pedi is receiving guidance 
from Andrew Panelli, owner 
and manager of Vegetable 
Buddies, a local club which 
recently closed. Panelli, along 
with students, will book pro­
fessional entertainment for the 
ballroom. A tentative cover 
charge has been set at two 
dollars. 

Whether or not these plans 
will solve the student need for social space remains in ques­tion. Student Body President ,Paul Riehle is enthused about the idea, but he calls it "a short term solution." He cited the presence of the Placement Bureau in the ballroom during 
the day as a difficulty. 
"It's a make-do effort. We've got to do something about the existing problem. How can we call this a student center when it's being used for the Place­ment Bureau? It is a frustrating situation,'/Riehle said. 
According to Dr. James McDonnell, Director of Stu­dent Activities, the professional entertainment will not take the place oftheNazz. ''Thereare no plans to replace the Nazz. There is a lot of student talent here, and there is no admission charge," McDonnell explained. 
Ifthe projectis a success, Pedi 
.hopes to establish a concession of non-alcoholic drinks and natural' foods. The long term goal, according to Pedi, is the creation of a coffee house 
I atmosphere in the ballroom. 
Another raucousjoke pops forth from j11nny man Bill Cosby St~turdayat the ACC. (photo by Chris Salvino) 
Homeeoming Paekets Lottery! 
Stepan Center Wednesda~ Sept. :10 6-9pm 
Eaeh pae•et ineludes Two Miehigan Tiekets, Two Poeo Tiekets and Two Bomeeoming Danee Tiekets! 

PRICE sso.oo 
MARIO'S 1· mile "over the border" on 31 North. Every night is PITCHER NIGHT at Mario's!l 
JPil'IT©JEJEffi~ ~~a®® 
Strohs, Hamms, Olympia, light NO COVER. 18 to enter, 21 to drink 


New SMC ·~eporters Meeting 
6:JO prn Wed:~esday ,r~ the SMC OBSERVER :J:~fir:-e. Sourh ~eqina Do)ernenr 

For further inforrr1ation call Margie , or Mary or 2-1715 
I 
I • 
.ALL INTERESTED ARE ''/w.·.~.fOM~~~ 

The Observer Tuesday, September 9, 1980 page 4 

Reagan unloads on Carter 
Thousands of residents of this unemployment ravaged Cen­tral Indiana city crowded into the parking lot Monday of the Kokomo mal·ltohearR.epub­lican Presidential candidate Ronald Reagan blast President 
· Carter"s economic record. 
Rea,~an said the Presideht"s latt"st econDmic proposal is "a cra7.y quilt of obvious election year promises." 
Reagan arrived in Kokomo ,,bouy noon His Leadership 80 airplane took offabout 2:15 for Chicago. 
Kokorno"~ 19.8 percent un­t·mployment rate is one pf the natopn"s highest; and much of it is fied to the auto industry. The city of 50,000 had an 11nemploymcnt rate in July of 
23.4 percent. 
Next door to the mall are the Chrysler, General Motors am d and Delco Uectronics plants 
Darby's 
reopens 



tonight

I 
I 
~ 
Darby's Place, the popular late night alterniti've hang outt for red eyed students, reopens tonight sporting an expanded menu and complimentary cake.
t 
It's located in the basement of La Fortune and opens at midnight. 
where thousands of Kokomo residents have been laid off. 
Reagan did not directly refer to any of tje industries But the former California governor said that when the unemployment rate climbs into the teens, "That"s not the recession he(Carter) speaks of. That"s d·~pression." 
Reagan also took a swi;.-~ at Sen. Birch Bayh, D-Ind., who is opposed for re-election by Republican Dan Quayle. 
"I'm sure he is a nice man;.'R.eagan said, not men­tioning Bayh by name. "HHe also philosophically is on the side of those who believe that more and more government and more and more govern­ment spending-and he lias voted for these consistently will solve our problems.'' 
Reagan was introduced by 5th District Congressman l~lwood "Bud" Aillis and Gov. Otis R. Bowen, Quayle, Gubernatorial candodate Robert D. Orr, State GOP chairman Bruce Melchert amd State GOP vice chairwoman Betty Rendell. 
Crowd estimates varied from 5,000 to 10,000. 
After the mall speech, Rea­gan moved on to America.t Legion Post No.6 for a $250 per person fundraiser. 
Reagan made am un­scheduled stop on a rural county road at Howard Township ·School where children from kindergarten through sixth grade were playing at the noon recess. 
He went to the playground 


21 9-283-4395 EVENINGS BY APPT. 
8-5 MON.-5AT. 

UNIVERSITY HAIR STYLISTS 
FULL SERVICE UNISEX CENTER HAIR CUTTING SPECIALISTS 
BADIN HALL NOTRE DAME UNIVERSITY NOTRE DAME. INDIANA 46556 

and greeted the children and teachers. 
Jane King, a 5th grade teacher, said school officials got word that Reagan was on his way past the school. 
"We thought we would say welcome to Kokomo," she said. 
Reagan started the day with Cardinal John Krol, spiritual leader of the 1.4 million Roman Catholics in the Philadelphia diocese. 
From Kokomo, Reagan flew to Chicago for a tour of a Lithuanian neighborhood and a talk with Polish-American leaders. 
while in Chicago, he planned to deliver a major statement on the economy. 


No place like... 
Begin remains at hon1e 
At the same time, Begin never publicly announced when he would transfer his office and he can claim he has made no concession to the United States or to bgypt on the emotionally charged Jerusalem issue. His office now is on the western edge of. Jerusalem near the Knesset, the Israeli Parliament. 
Asked about his plans during the Linowitz trip, Begin said moving his office "does not have anything in common with atmosphere" of autonomy talks. 


Students may still drop classes 
Jlavid Sarphie 
Although September 3 was 
the final day for adding a course, 
a student may still drop a class 
with the approval of that 
student's dean. 
According to University Re­
gistrar Richard Sullivan, the 
first seven class days of a se­
mester are reserved for the 
addition of classes. During that 
time a student may also drop a 
class at his or her discretion. 
"After the seventh class day, 
we require the dean's approval 

mann(smc). Information Activities too.  at  Student  
COST $415  
Attention:  People  on  

for all dropped courses," 
Sullivan said. "The reasons for 
this are obvious. We don't want 
the teachers' classes to be 
interrupted by continual 


,W.AHtifitl "J81ff 
load ofat least twelve hours per 
semester." 
With the approval of the 
dean, a student may discon­
tinue a course at any time until a 
week after the distribution of 
mid-semester deficiency re­
ports. October 31 is the final 
day for the dropping of any 
course this semester. 
For any further questions, 
students may call the Regi­
strar's Office or consult the 
student guide, du Lac. 


JhRUSALbM (AP)-Under 
heavy  American  pressure,  
Prime  Minister  Menachem  
Begin  apparently  has  post­ 

poned plans to move his office to the annexed Arab sector of Jerusalem, government sources said yesterday. 
Begin's new office, with •a viewoftheMountofOlives, has been ready for two weeks. But the prime minister has not sought his Cabinet's approval for the move and sources close to him were unaware of in­tentions to raise the subject in the near future. 
President Carter's special envoy to the Middle East, Sol Linowitz, warned Begin last week that moving his office would harm talks with bgypt on Palestinian autonomy in the occupied West Bank ofJordan and the Gaza Strip. 
Linowitz has described the Jerusalem issue as the most difficult obstatle to an 
Students converged on Stepan Center last evening insearch oforganizations on Activities Night. [Photo by Greg Maurer] 
autonomy agreement. bgypt wants Jerusalem's 100,000 Arabs, who were under Jor­danian rule al0ng with the 700,000 West Bank Pales­tinians untill967, to vote for a Palestinian autonomous coun­cil. 
Israel says that would lead to a de facto redivision ofJerusalem, which was united by an Israeli annexation law three weeks after the Jordanian sector was captured in the Six-Day War. 
During five hours of private talks with the Israeli leader, Linowitz appealed to Begin to improve the atmosphere for negotiating with bgypt. He told reporters that it was in this context that he raised the office issue. 
Sources said Begin made,.no commitment to Linowitz to refrain from action. "Linowitz talked but Begin just listened. He didn't say yes or no," said one official. 

The Bahamas Senior Trip has Openings for Non-Seniors. (underclassmen, girlfriends, boy­friends, family, etc.) 
Talk to Mike Gies or Anne Fink (~d) or Donna Shannon and Martha Haus­
the waiting list shouid have pa~ments in toda~ 

tl tomorrowll 
lemons m&t6-8 w7-9 Iafortune mtw 11-2 

ATTENTIONI 
Students applying to professional schools 
Prof. Thomas Marullo will give a three day workshop on professional state­ment writing. 
Sept. 9, 10,11 from 7 to 9 pm Nieuwland Sc1ence Hall Room 127 
note dote change 
----. -----­~~~ 

'Unclaimed' 
Hotneless abound in Asia 
(AP)-Along the jungle border between Thailand and Cam­bodia, thousands of children are stranded-without fami­lies, without homes, not knowing whether their parents are dead or alive. Some of the younger ones are not even sure who they are. 
In this crowded border settlement, photographs of scores of young Cambodians are tacked on a huge bulletin 
;:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;::: 
rocus 

:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::·:·:::::·:·:·:·:·::::::::::: 
board. Small faces stare from 
the photos; relief workers hope ·someone will identify them. 
So far, 625 reunions have been documented since the relief agencies' tracing program began a year ago, when the mass exodus of refugees from Cam­bodia began. 
But reunified families be­come rarer and rarer as the months pass. For those childn :' not claimed this month, th~ international agencies have decided t'O begin finding foster homes, here and abroad. 
The decision follows months of searching by the Interna­tional Committee of the Red Cross and the U.N. High Commissioner for Refugees. During that time, books with photographs and information about 1,500 Cambodians up to age 18 had been circulated in refugee camps. A second book with 1,500 more children will be published ~oon. 
Relief officials say they want to avoid any large scale airlift or outright adoptions, believing that as long as there is reasonable hope of finding , child's parents, he or she should not be sent off to start a new life with strangers. 
"We do not call these children orphans even if they are still not identified by anyone," said a Red Cross official. "We work on the assumption that their parents are alive somewhere and that one day they all will be re­united." 
Since the influx of refugees into Thailand began last October, the Red Cross and United Nations have registered about 3,000 unaccompanied 
Juniper Press provides experience 
Juniper Press, the only non­subsidized, student-operated publishing house in the coun­try, offers students a first-hand education of the publishing process, from acquiring manu­scripts to production, market­ing, and sales of the work. Students or faculty interested in submitting manuscripts for consideration should contact minors. They have no estimate of how many thousands more sch lost children remain inside Cambodia. 
Two solutions worked out by the United Nations for "unclaimed" children require the involvement of Cambodian families living here and in other countries: setting up either foster families or group homes. 
"We do not want to move these children from a Cam­bodian environment," said a 
U.N. official. "But we feel some of them, especially those under five, need special care that cannot be fulfilled in the camps. !wen if they go abroad, their first priority is to live with a Cambodian family." 
The United Nations an­nounced in a policy statement last year that the governments of those countries agreeing to accept unaccompanied minors must guarantee that the children will be returned to the parents or family members if they are located and so request. 
In addition, the governments must also give ass4rances that they will promptly accept the child's remaining family mem­be.rs for immigration if they are located and express a wish to join the child. 
The tracing program in Bangkok and at the border follows complicated proce­dures to identify relatives. Perhaps the most trying test is to determine whether a claim is genuine. 
Tuesday, September 9, 1980 page 5 




-· 
• _BuynowandgetFREE SolidStateSoftware Libraries. 
\ 

Tl Programmables lead the field in performance, quality and value. You don't have to know how to program to get-all the benefits available with a TI Programmable. These solid state library modules are preprogrammed to help solve problems in: Engineering. Busi­ness. Finance. And other math oriented courses. With up to 5,000 program steps in each module you can save your own personal pro­gramming for those classes which need it most. 
The Tl-59 has up to 960 program steps or up to 100 memories. Mag­netic card read/write capability lets you record your own custom pro­grams or those received from PPX (Professional Program Exchange.) 
The TI-58C features up to 480 program steps or 60 memories. And it has Tl's Constant Memory TM fea­
ture that retains data and program information even when the calcula­tor is turned off. And free modules now give you that edge you need to succeed. From August 15 to October 31, 1980 is your special opportunity to purchase one of the world's most ad­vanced programmable calculators. And get a minimum of $40 worth of free software modules with a TI­58C. Or, when you buy a TI-59, get a minimum of $80 worth of software modules and an $18 one-year mem­bership in PPX. This will allow you to select up to 3 programs (from over 2,500) written by professionals in your field of study. 
Visit your college bookstore or other TI retailer for more informa­tion, and let him help you select the TI Programmable and free software that's right for you. 
I 0-;: bough~-:-TI:;C, ::d:m~re:odule H:;; i;JmY first choice and an alternate. · D I've bought aTl-59, send me my two free modules and my membership (which entitles me to select three pro­grams from the source catalog at no charge). Here are my module choices and an alternate 
I 2·-----­
3. --:-::--:::-:-::----=:::---::: 
Send Ja: n Libiii'J Offtr, P.0. 8o1 1!1114, Lubltock, TX 794011. 
Return this coupon: (1) with customer information card (packed in box), (2) a dated copy of proof of purchase. between Aug 15 and Oct 31. 1980-items must be post­marked by Nov 7, 1980. 
Name 
Address 
City State Zip 
Calculator Serial Number (from back of unit) Please allow 30 days for delivery. Offer void where 
I  ~rohibited  Offer good in U S only.  
Lnr~~r!Qh~ubs~~les ___  ~­1 ftylf.'Jrs:  
tU.S. suggested retail for all Li· braries is $40, except Farming, $55, and Pool Water Analysis, $45. •us suggested retail price.  Jnnci'vJ~aon no \.J qp) ~  
**For use with Tl-59 only  -.  



Tom langan(8946}, or Lynne Daly(l3.16). Juniper Press, Texas Instruments technology -hnnging affordable electronics to your fingertips. 
comprised of nineteen students from the ND-SMC community, 
TEXAS INSTRUMENTS
is presently considering eight manuscripts, submitted by students, professors and local writers. -· 

Tuesday, September 9, 1980 page 6 

Editorials 
'Almost bought an alltgator shirt, 
· Anthony_ Walton 

[The following is intended to them .all out, I was faced with science, shirt demographics. It was then that I realized that "Well, we like to call it 
•e sung or hummed to the tune four choices, all relatively the After the rather basic statis­if I was ever to solve this emblem-oriented apparrel. The if "Almost Cut My Hair" b_y same. The shirts were all navy tical observation, (sitting in the mystery, I must go to the source classic stylng coupled with the 
:rosby, Stills, NashandYoung]. blue, with a 50% cotton, 50% dining hall and counting),! ofshirt karma, the mighty Izod. gator make it unbeatable. It's a polyester blend. They were found that the alligator was the I called him at his Minneapolis good, solid piece ofAmericana, 
l)the Izod Lacoste,(alligator), overwhelming choice of stu.­headquarters, the central of­so it's a natural for General $22, theJ.C. Penney,(Fox), $14, dents, and as any football fices of General Mills. The Mills." Almo.rt hougl1t afl alligator, the Munsingwear Grand Slam, 
weekend confirms, alumni also. following is a transcript of our "A French shirt a piece of 
You could .ray I fleeded it to u;ear. 
Americana? How?" 
f t fll(l.r '50'}{,. col/of!, tumble dry, 
"That's just it my boy, it's
Pemulltl'flf j1ren. M.ry care. . 
cosmopolitan. It's just like 
Tllc'fl f thrmght rthrmt 1//hat I tMr 
Perrier and caviar. You see,
rrtyi11g, 
certain jet-set types started 
A11rii clirl!l't tlltlttl to he i!l tl1at box. 
wearing them, so they got in GQ. Of course after a year it 
So I .rrtoed fll)l.re/l over eight 
became old news in the fashion
dollarr. 
world, but by then the, how 
lind 11'1'111 and hrJIIght a iox. 
shall I put it... the upwardly 
mobile middle class had started 
wearing them, so they turned 

What's in a shirt? Apparently 
a sort semi-statusinto of 
llltH:h more than meets the eye. 
symbol. We just took advan­I had always thought that a shirt tage ofthis, and now we've got a was a shirt, but I was naive and full spin-off line, with sweaters unworldlv. I havt· been to the and hats and socks and belts 
111all, and [ have found that all and... " 
shirts arc not created equal. I "f<..nough, enough. I'm just

have s{'en the great Buddha, curious as to why so many
lzod the Lacoste, and I have people buy them. They're not 
karned that it's not so much the best buy."

what's in a shirt (cotton and "Of course they're not the 
polyester, or your body, de­best buy, that's the idea! You've 
pending on your point of view) got to give 'em what they want,but rather what's on a shirt that and they want gators. A gator , matters. This docs appear to be says "I don't have to watch : no big secret, but more about prices. I buy whatI like." Makesl the mighty lzod later. . 

'em feel important." "So it's kind of like anI ~ exclusive club, huh?" 
This all began quite inno-(penguin), and "Yes, that's why we call it 
· cently. I simply wanted to buy a (lion), $10. · supposed to be so smart, I "Mr. Izod, I find it hard to emblem-oriented. People buy · new golf shirt, and I ended up With a little analysis, it wondered, then why weren't believe that the world famous gators because it identifies discovering the truth and en-! becomes evident that the Garan they all lining up to buy Garan Lacoste alligator shirt is ac­themselves to each other. It 
lightenment of the shirt ques-Lion is the best buy. But this Lions or Musingwear Penguins? tually made and distributed by says, "Hi, I'm from Grosse tion: I went with an open mind finding did not jibe with either I knew some people bought General Mills, I mean of all Pointe or some other such place
and just wanted to make the the advertising in the store or Alligators because they companies?" and I'm on my way into the 
most economical purchase pos-the volume of sales. I thought matched their socks and belts, "Well son, we do try and keep establishment.' That's how theysible. To gather information I that maybe there was some­but that did not explain the vast that very quiet, but yes, it's true. 
know who to talk to, i mean if 

went to the University Park thing wrong with the Garan, so I majority. And the bookstore Alligator shirtS' are from the you see someone in one ofthose Mall. Instead of seeing your removed it from consideration. doesn't sell them, at least not company that brought
same dreadful foxes, you know that basic regular golf shirt, I was Still, the average price of the vet. But there had to be a reason you Trix, Count Chocula, and they paid $14 and that they

assaulted by everything from other two shirts was only that all these people were Cocoa Puffs." 
can't afford the real thing. I 

11enguins to Armadilloes. It was $14.50. In order to get to the paying $22 for a 10 or 15 dollar "So how did the cereal czars mean Penney, can you
J.C. 

more like a visit to the zoo than bottom of this phenomena, I shirt. Did it clear up acne and of America get into the shirt imagine?" 
a shopping trip. After sorting have had to utilize a new help you get dates? business?" 
"So it's a club, but why an
i 
emblem at all?" 
"It's just the latest in con­spicuous consumption. Like I said, really rich people don't wear them, in fact they
by Garry Trudeau 
wouldn't be caught dead in them, but the middle class thinks that they're an emblem of class, get it? Of the upper class." ' 
MICH/V3.L, I WN'T ~lPINS WITH 


"So that's why you see so'
86LI£V£ IT.' P.HAT TH& PIV?!Y. I'M 
many of them at places like
ARE )(}f) fJOINJ A '.fJUJNTE&R HER£? fOR /WIJfJ<S{)N. 
Notre Dame?" ·.· ~\ 
"Yes, that's it-exactly. Places · like Notre Dame suffer from this massive inferiority com­plex, you know how they say they're the Catholic Harvard and always want the biggest or oldest or best. And as the good father says, a school is only as good as its endowment. It follows that a student is only as good as his emblem. Small endowment, tacky university. Wrong emblem, tacky shirt. Get-it? It all fits together." 


Editorial Board and Department Managers 
Editor-in-Chief..... ... Paul Mullaney S.\.1C Nt'u's Editor ........... Mary Leavitt Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 Managing Editor .............. Mark Rust Sports Editor ............... Beth Huffman 
The Observer is an independent newspaper published by the students of t~e Features Editor .............. Kate Farrell
Edr/onalsEditor ........... Mike Onufrak 
University of Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's Colle8e. It does not necessanly Features Editor ............ Molly Woulfe
Senior Copy Editor ......... Lynne Daley 
reflect the policies of the administration of either institunon. The news is r.eported Photo Editor .................. John Macor
Neu·s Editor .................. Pam Degnan 
as accurately and as objectively as possible. Editorials represent the opimon .of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, opinions, and letters are th.e v1ews Neu·s Editor ............. Tom Jackman Business Manager ......... Greg H~dges of;their authors. Column space is available to all members of the cC!mmumty, and News Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . John McGrath Advertising Manager .. Mike Hols!.ngertlf free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, IS encouraged. SMC Executive Edttor .. Margie Brassil Production Manager · 
.·,.·
.t:,\' 

L-------~~------~------------------------------------------~~~-----------------~----­



Features 
Tuesday, September 9, 1980 page 7 

CILA -Vision of Sharing 


The word CILA carries a rich and fond meaning for those of us who have had the appropriate experience, but is srill a baffling term for many others. To explain that we are the Community for the 
International Lay Apostolate often serves only to increase the bafflement. In all honesty, we are not as intimidating as our name. Our organization, going into its twentieth year at Notre Dame and St. Mary's, IS a community of people with a vision, one both simple and multi­fold. The model for our vision is a man who hugged children and healed broken lives, who showed us the beautiful and painful way of love, and who came so that we might have life and have it abundantly. CILA'S vision is one of learning to express Christian commitment to social jus­
-

-~----------~--------­
'JL' FROSH PROBLEM 
Can You Be True and Not Blue? 
Step 1-True or False Test 
1. 
Absence makes the heart grow fonder. 

2. 
When the eat's away, the mouse will play! 

3. 
Long-distance is the next best thing to being there. 


4. Out of sight...out of mind. 
5. 
If you can't be with the one you love, love the one you're with. 

6. 
Life's a banquet-stuff yourself-there's plenty of dishes and hunks around. 


7. Love conquers all. 
8. 
You gotta wash that guy/gal right out of your hair! 

9. 
Mother knows best. And my momma to!~ me, "You'd better shop around." 

10. 
a). I'm a one-man woman, b). I'm a two-timing man. 

11. 
You'd try on different pairs of shoes before deciding, right? 

12. 
Winter, Spring, Summer, or Fall, all you have to do is call, and I'll be there. 


I3. Variety is the spice of life. 
14. 
Matches were made in hea­ven-in twos, no group rates. 

15. 
Eootloose and fancy free, that's the way to be. 

16. 
X's and O's keep the flame flickering. 

17. 
Consumer education is important; go ahead, squeeze the Charmin. 


18. All's fair in love and war. 
Step 2. Evaluating Your Score. Answers (one point for each matching letter): 1) T; 2) F; 3) T; 4) F; 
5) F; 6) F; 7) T; 8) F; 9) F; 10) a-T, b-F; 
11) F;'12) T; 13) F; 14) T; 15) F; 16) T; 
17) F; and 18) F. 
tice. To us, CILA is serving, learning, sharing and celebrating. 
CILA is more clearly understood in the various ways we strive to express our vision, one of which is service. Different opportunities for volunteer service in the South Bend community are available. 
Corvilla House is home for twelve to fifteen retarded children and adt.J~rs who enjoy the company and friendship of Notre Dame and St. Mary's students. At Portage Manor students visit and partake in ac tivities with elderly people. A new Home Visitation program provides students with one-to-one companion ship with local elderly residents, offering friendship, service, and a source of security. Students may choose to participate at the ] ustice and Peace Center, and inner-city cooperative of the Holy Cross sisters, brothers and priests, engaging in services for the poor, bail-bond projects and justice education. 
A more extended version of CILA service is the Summer Projects program. Last summer eighteen CILA members devoted four to eight weeks of volunteer work at such sites as Appalachia, Tijuana, Oakland, Toronto, New Orleans and Salt Lake City. Their work ranged from com­munity organization to medical assis­tance in rmpoverished areas. Most 
If you have:' 

A Perfect Score -wedding bells 
for you and your H.T.H.! You shall 
not be delivered unto temptation, 
and can live happily ever after. 
Five Off-you like the best of 
both worlds-enjoy swimming with 
other fish in the sea, while your 
H.T.H. waits for you on shore. Please let him/her get his/her feet wet, too. Ten Off-social butterful 
syndrome. A "DearJohn/Joan" letter 
is in order. Then you can go around 
kissing every frog in the pond. 
Eighteen Off-you're a Lance Romance/Runaround Sue. They say breaking up is hard to do, but not for you! 
Step 3. Classified Advice. Hang it up if you; 
1. 
Fran tic ally shove his/her picture in a drawer Before a prospect arrives at your door. 

2. 
Remove his/her ring Before your Saturday night fling. 

3. 
Start reminiscing about a past event With the wrong guy/girl with whom it was spent. 

4. 
Try so hard to be sincere But there's too many guys/girls to whom you are dear. 

5. 
Passionately whisper "I love you, Phil/Sharon" When you're with Bill/Karen. 

6. 
Receive flowers when you have the flu And don't know who to mail a "thank you" to. 

7. 
Your H.T.H. finds out about your romance at school and he/she 


arranges a to-the-death duel. Get the picture? What you get out of your long-distance relationship is what you put into it. Attitude is the key to your letter love life (or lack of 
Tom McStein and William O'Brien 
summer project veterans agree that 
they received as much if not more 
from the experience as they gave, in 
terms of personal enrichment and 
challenge. 
Anodier dimension of the CILA vision is education. We learn from each other, from our environment, from our studies, from our exper­ience; we seek to raise our conscious­ness and probe more deeply the questions of Christian commitment and social justice through newslet­ters, fllm series, education work­shops (the 1980 education workshop featured Network, a Catholic lobby­ing group in Washinsron, D.C.) arid integration of expenential learning and justice ideals into the academic realm. In our quest for understand­ing, CILA members realize that our focus is not on answers, but rather mutual questioning and reflection. 
Our search and our questioning is indeed mutual: sharing m community life is an essential dimension of the CILA experience. We come together, students, alumni, faculty and their families, at orientation weekends, retreats, general meetings, informal dinner discussions and sharing ses­sions. Throughout our many group activities we emphasize interaction among CILA members and an out­reach to the entire Notre Dame/St. Mary's/~outh Bend community. 
male). Now, if your are "hopelessly 
devoted," good for you-and you should have stayed home. On the other hand, if you want to switch from Steady Eddie to Campus Ca­sanova, there's fifty ways to leave your lover, so" Drop off the key, Lee, 
. Beyond. the particular activi­ties, CILA IS a community that comes together to celebrate. 
Weekly masses, picnics, hayrides and square dances are all part of our celebration as friends. Laught.er as well as .prayer str~ng.t~­en us 10 our commitment as mdivl­duals and community. 
Service, learning, sharing and celebration--CILA is all these .things. Yet, we are not an organization of specific functions or requirementa;; there are numerous ways and de­grees of individual involvement which are integral parts of the community. Our vision is all these things, and sometimes it is more than we ourselves can fully express. Yet we sense it, we understand it--a rich and fond meaning. Our vision is one of having life and having it abundant­ly. 
Interested members of the Notre Dame/St. Mary's community are invited to CILA's fttst general meet­ing of the 1980/1981 school year, which will be held in the Library lounge tomorrow, September 10, at 7:00p.m. 
Tom McStein serves as CILA 's Communication officer; William 0 'Bn'en is an Education officer. 
Anne Marie Jehle 
and get yourself free!" 
Anne Marie Jehle is a freshman at Notre Oame from Wi/liamsvrl/e, New York. 
This is her first contribution to Features 

.... 
.; 
-,. 
.. ~ 
. I,. ,\, 


iiiiiiii.iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii~~---iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii~iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii~iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii~~~~. . ... 
::.. :' ;,\''· 1. '! 
·,.1 •''
. _.;, '. 

.. ~!'! , , ·• , . I• . 
···.·:··t·'l 

r 
The .Observer_~ __ 
T 0 da~===================T=u=e=s=d=ay='=S=e=p=te=m=b=er=9,=1=9=8=0=p=a=g=e8 
Campus 
4:30 p.m.-biology seminar, galvin auditorium, room 278. 
6, 8:30, 11 p.m.-"china syndrome," engr. aud., admission $1. 
7 p.m.-introduction to jogging mini clinic -£-::a­turing head track coach joe' piane, ace auditorium, free of charge and open to alL 
7 p.m.-nd/smc hunger coalition, mem. library aud. 
7 p.m.-"natural family planning class," hayeshealy aud., for married and en­gaged couples. 
8 p.m. -league ofwomen voters, stapleton lounge 
'-)MC Board programs 
diversions 
by Shr1ro11 Kt:ane 
The Student Activities Pro­gramming Board (S.A.P.B.) is the organization responsible for all the programming, speaking engagements, movies, and events sponsored by St. Mary's College. The S.A.P.B. got underway in the Fall of1979 but was not formerly intro­duced as an organization until second semester last year. 
Previously responsible for planning the events and hap­penings on the St. Mary's campus was the Social Com­mission. S.A.P.B. came about because a transition was needed in order to accommodate for a more diversified and more sophisticated programming a­genda, according to Kathy Sweeney, Student Government President. 
The Social Commission, which consisted of one Com­missioner and a general com­mittee, was responsible for planning everything from movies to Octoberfest. The Social Committee was a small organization for such a large responsibilitv. 
... 'brar 
continued from page 3 
boasting 18,000 volumes, was procured in the fall of 1978 and 1 is near completion. 
In speaking with Robert Miller, Director of Libraries, it is apparent that most future collections (unless they are rare collections) will be oflittle avail to the library. "The forte in the futme will be in acquiring books by title which is slow and expensive," said Miller. 
Last year the library budget was just ove one million, with a large portion of that coming from non-budgeted sources. "To keep up the current level of buying," remarked Miller, "additional money is needed, hopefully from the campaign." 
Asked if there will be financial difficulties in the offing, Mr. Miller stated that no trouble is expected this year. "But next year," added Miller, "the National l~ndowment for the Humanities Fund will run out and something will be needed to take up the slack." 

Molarity 

AC:TVALLY .:r·~ MAl>E: A 
LOT OF A!>VANCE6 /NTH£ 
7WO YEARS I'VE C::tONE' 



Peanuts® 


The Daily Crossword 
© 1980 by Chicago Tribune-N.Y. News Synd. Inc. All Rights Reserved 

TONIGHT SEPT. 10, 19&0 4pm·3am 
Mi* fl Mateh Speeial! %Z oz Banana's eans 
(I 
Hot Dogs 
£Wlf ~®~IDTIW£Lfil®W 
llo®® 

TI-IERE I WAS SLEEPING PEACEFULLir'.. 



STUDENT LEGAL SERVICES 
BASEM~NT ~E DAr F L~W ...CHOOL LEGAL AID & OS:. FND -1 ASSOC1ATI0tl! ROOM B·12 283· .795 
1tam· 2pm ( ~·F' other times by apf ointment 
WE HANDLEALL FINANCIALLY QUALIFIED STUDENTS & STAFF 
The One And Only: 
TONY'S SHOE SHOP 
111 West Jefferson Easy to find. OPEN 6 DAYS A WEEK 8-5 
SUDDENL!f I 14EARD A 11 0 MINUS II CALL ME 

48 Misplayed, 10 Soft touch In bridge 11 US cltl· 50 Property zens receiver 12 Tennis 54 Valuable replay security 13 Nigerian 56 Sphere of city activity 21 Catapult 58 Advertising 22 Meerschaum 
light 25 "Key -" 59 Ocean phase 26 Script 60 Sent direction 
packing 28 VIsitor 61 Fruit 30 Venturesome 
pastry one 62 Ireland 31 An Astaire 63 Deml·-32 Shirks 64 Mmes. of 34 Impassive 
Spain 37 Prof's 65 Retreats class 39 Under legal DOWN obligation 1 Preprandial 42 Encourage words 43 Aptitudes 2 Kindof 45 Nets gin fizz 49 Forest spot 3 Computer 50 Greek mar· food ketplace 
4 A getting 51 Black, to rid of Balzac 5 Certain 52 -smoke 
Muslim (be ruined) 6 Betel palm 53 Barbara and 7 Perfume Anthony 
bottle 55 Letter 8 Appraise opener 9 Cllcksthe 56 Stemward 
shutter 57 Inlet 
ACROSS 1 Network 5 Putby 9 Mapratio 
14 Punjab 
princess 15 Writer Leon 16 Christened 17 Elec. units­18 Uncluttered 19 Mountain 
crest 20 Owner of54A 23 Tallinn is its capital 24 Thoror 
Titan 27 Perched 28 Hiatus 29 Reada 
meter 30 Impair 33 Salt Lake 
City team 35 Oporpop 36 Allan·­37 Bishopric 38 Trace of 
color 40 Kinsman: abbr. 
41 Slangy 
expletive 43 Barber 44 Whitney and 
Wallach 46 Except 47 Politician: 
abbr. 
Yesterday's Puzzle Solved: 




...Dallas 
Washington's only serious touchdown threat. 
The Washington ground Game, obviou~ly missmg John Riggins, was, for the most part, nonexistent. Clarence Harmon was the leading Redskins Rusher with just 36 yards. 
Springs and Dorsett shoul­dered most of the load in the decisibe first-period touchdown march, althou~h White did hit Hill with a swmg pass good for 18 yards along the way. 
Two plays layter, with the Cowboys on the Washington 22, White flipped a screen pass and the young running back sprinted down the right side into the end zone, but a flag at the 5-yard line--an unnecessary roughness penalty on Dallas' Drew Pearson--wtped out the touchdown and pushed the ball back to the 20. 
It didn't matter. Four plays later, Dorsett was in ·the end zone. 
The Redskins came back with Theismann completing passes ofll yards to McDaniel and 16 yards to Phil DuBois that moved them from their own 16 to the Dallas 28 before Moseley was wide to the left on his 45-yard try. 
By then, the sellout crowd of 55,o45 (there wasn't a ~ingle no-show) was booing Theisman and the booing got louder as the 
Baseball 
NATIONALLEAGUE Eilst 

w L Pet. G.B. l\l'mlreal 74 63 .540 FhiiU!phla 73 63 .537 112 RtlslUgl 72 66 .522 2112 
12'12

St.Louis 61 75 .449 
15

l'e.Y'Wtrk 59 78 .431 
19'12

frtlai!J) 54 82 .397 
West I.JJs Angeles 79 58 .577 21-bJStm 77 60 .562 
.543 4'12

Ondmat 75 63 
8

Atla1ta 71 66 .518 
12

Sal Fhl'ldsa: 67 70 .489 
19'12
60 78 .435

Sal~ 
Yesterday's Results Cincinnati 6, Atlanta 1 Ph lladelphIa 6, Pittsburgh 2 Chicago 6, St. Louis 2 Only games scheduled 
Today's Games 

New York (Zachary 6-9 and Scott 0-0) at Montreal (Norman 4-2 and Gullickson 7-4), 2 (TN) Pittsburgh (Candelaria 10-13) at Philadelphia (Carlton 21-8), n Cincinnati (Soto 8-5) at Atlan­
ta (Boggs 9-8 ), n Los Angeles (Reuss 16-5) at Houston (Andujar 2-5), n San Francisco (Ripley 7-8) at San Diego (Curtis 7-8), n Chicago (Capllla 2-5) at St. Louis (Martinez 4-9), n 

Among the many previouslu unknown players who Courey, tailback Phil Carter and offensive emerged to lead the Irish in Saturday's Purdue lineman Bob Burger. [Photo by john Macor] game were [left to right] quarterback Mike 
former Notre Dame star failed in the Redskins' next two • pessessions to move them very much. 
Between them,_ Septien ~ade it 10-0 after Whtte had htt on passes of 14 and 37 yards. 
When Ike Forte ran the second half kickoff 53 yards and VVashington took over on the Dallas 40, the crowd woke up. But after marching briskly to the Cowboys 12, Mosley was wide to the right with the 29-yard chip shot. 
AMERICAN LEAGUE 
East  
i1f4, L  Pet.  G.B.  
New York  d6  .628  
Baltimore  82 55  .599  4  
Boston  .  74 60  .552  10112  
Milwaukee  73 66  .525  14  
Detroit  71  66  .518  15  
Cleveland  70 66  .515  15112  
Toronto  58 79  .423  28  
Westt  

Kansas City 87 51 .630 Texas 69 68 .504 17112 Oakland 68 71 .489 19'12 M lnnesota 60 78 .435 27 Chicago 58 78 .426 28 California 53 83 .390 33 Seattle 50 87 .365 36112 
Yesterday's Games Baltimore 9, Detroit 2 (l st) Baltimore 8, Detroit 6 (2nd) New York 7, Toronto 4 Boston 10, Cleveland 4 Chicago 3, Seattle 2, 12 Inn. California 7, Kansas City 4 Texas 6, Oakland 2 Only games scheduled 
Today's Games Texas (Figueroa 3-9) at Oak­land (Keogh 14-12) · New York (Perry 9-10) at Toronto (Todd 3-1 ), n Boston (Eckersley 9-12) at Cleveland (Grimsley 4-4), n Baltimore (McGregor 16-7) at Detroit (Schatzeder 9-10 ), n Seattle (Honeycutt 8-15) at Chicago (Baumgarten 2-9), n Milwaukee (Sorensen 10-8) at Minnesota (Zahn 11-18), n Kansas Cltii_ (Spllttorff 11-9) at California (Tanana 7-10), n 

llit?lt? will ()t; cl rnt?t?tlll" f()l'tilt? ()()§f?ll'f?l §()C)ft§ §(clff. 



()lt;ctM?. ()fill" lclt?ct§ 
~· 
f()f ~lt:lll"clll §IJ()()It?rnt?llt••• 

• 
Beatvoist

•se
a layoutstaffmember 


: Paid positionsavailableI 
: Comeuptothird floorLaFortune • orcall 8661 
tofind outmore!
• Noexperience necessaryI 

Sf>rnt? t?~J>t?flt?l'1t:f? 11'1 lcll'f>Ut/cl£>§1"1'1 1'1f?t:clt?cle 
(call ()t>rnt? t>fflt:t? (Jj~<f) f)f?tWf?£>1'1 (')()f)(') c11'1cl ~ ()ern. 

t..~ ··. 
J" 
'JI.a1' &,&•,~11<' ft & < I!IJ•UI'ol.l IIUIIIIII'>l,lllo··o'JUI .......,_U...I..IIW.,&o, ltll•'hl... ,.,... lll'.~··· 
...... ".................................111/llo~flllll~l 
• lo•IIIW h• ''till '"'~~:1 ....~,&'I'IIIILOIIIlttM·I~· • ·lllllu'IIIIIL(MU.IIoU ohllo'ljl,o•&~ijiJI''~t.'•tttll•J' >IIIUI<'I I ft&•lfi•<'4Ao ••••VIlli l!,lu1 1 jl~...,_,,~ .............,.~!'' 


[continued from page 11) 
By this time, Dorsett was out of the game with leg cramps. But he had done his job. He carried the ball 17 times for 66 yards. 
When he was gone, Springs and rookie James Jones shoul­dered the burden, Springs tack­ing on 50 yards on 13 carries arJd Jones adding 45 yards on 10. 
While White went to the air only when Coach Tom Landry wanted him to, Washington quarterback Joe Theismann threw primarily because he had to. He let the ball loose times and completed 18 for 181 yards. He was mtercepted once. 
That once was a killer. 
It came with the Redskins still down 10 ·0 and it came at the Dallas 1-yard line when strong safety Charlie Waters leaped in front of wide receiver John Mndaniel to wipe out 
Football 
AP POLL 

The following Is the Associat­ed Press' first regular season college football poll as deter­rnlned bv a nationwide panel of 59 sports writers and broad­casters. First place votes are In parenthesis. 
1. Ohlo State (33) 0-0 2. Alabama (22) 1-0 3. Pittsburgh (3) 0-0 4. Oklahoma (1) 0-0 
5. Southern Cal 0-0 6. Texas 1-0 
7. Notre Dame 1-0 8. Nebraska 0-0 9. Houston 0-0 
10. 
Florida State 1-0 

11. 
M lchlgan 0-0 12. Georgia 1-0 13. Stanford 1-0 


14. 
Penn State 1-0 

15. 
North Carolina 1-0 16. Arkansas 0-1 


17. M lssourl 0-0 18. Auburn 0-0 19. Washington 0-0 20. Purdue 0-1 
NAT'L FOOTBALL LEAGUE 
AMERICAN~E 

W L, PCT. PF PA lilffalo 1 0 1.000 17 7 !'eN Englm 1 o 1.ooo 34 11 Baltlrrore 1 o 1.ooo 17 14 
N.Y..Jels 0 1 .000 14 17 MlaTi 0 1 .000 7 17 
Ca1lr.ll ~ 1 u 1.000 31 17 
Ondl'"f'WI 0 1 12 17
.000

C!Mcn:t 0 1 34
.000 17

Hous1m 31
17
0 y}esf .000 
1 0 1.00,0 34 13

~~ 1 0 1.000 27 6 
ClerM!r 0 1 .000 6 27 
Kinsasaty 0 1 .000 6 27 
Seittle 0 1 .000 13 34 
NATlONALOONFERENCE 
E'ast 

N.Y. Glcrrts 1 0 1.000 41 35 
Fhllidel~la 1 0 J.ooo· 21 6 
Olllas 1 0 1.000 17 3 
St. Louis 0 1 .000 35 41 
Washlnglm 0 1 .000 3 17 
ll!lrolt 1 u 1.000 41 20
Qsen Bay 1 0 1.000 12 6
Mlmesota 1 0 1.000 24 
23

Tarrpa Bay 1 0 1.000 17 12 frtlav> 0 1 .000 6 12 
5.YI Frandsm 1 0 1.000 26 
23
1 .000 20 41

Lns= 0 West 
!'eN .o 1 .000 23 26Atlcnta 0 1 .000 23 24 ust Night's Result Dallas 17, W ashlngton 3 
Thursday Night's Game Los Angeles at Tampa Bay 
Sunday's Games Atlanta at New England Cincinnati at Miami Dallas at Denver Detroit vs. Green Bay at Mllw. New Orleans at ChicagoNew York Jets at Buffalo Oakland at San Diego Philadelphia at Minnesota Pittsburgh at Baltimore St. Louis at San Francisco ~eattle at Kansas City Washington as N.Y. Giants 
Mond•y, Sept. 15 Houston at Cleveland 
roo-------,----~-----­
The Observer Tuesday, September 9, 1980_ page 10 


Come To Musicland For Sale Prices On Scotch Blank Cassette Tapes! 
SCOTOI Master I 60-minute cassette blank recording tape. 
3.89 
SCOTOI Master I 90-minute cassette blank recording tape. 
5.09 

FREE 
Wrth a purchase of two or more Scotch Master I, II, or Ill blank cassette tapes, take home a Scotch Book Bag 
absolutely free, while supply lasts. 
SCOTCH~rll 
60-minute cassette blank recording tape. 
4.49 
SCOTCH Master II 
90-minute cassette blank recording tape. 
5.69 
Available at: 
Scottsdale Mall 
University Park Mall 
SCOTCH Master Ill 60-minute cassette blank recording tape. 
4.49 
SCOTCH Master Ill 
90-minute cassette blank recording tape. 
5.69 
We're notsatisfieduntilyou are. 
410057-080 


Florida favored 
'The best of the worst' 
Sports Briefs~­
Ski team to meet today 
Th~ Notre Dame ski te!lffi will hold an organizational' meetmg today at 7:30p.m. m room 1-C, LaFortune. This is a mand~tory meeti~g for anyone wishing to race this year. All return~ng competitors, as well as any new skiers interested (especially Notre Dame and Saint Mary's women) must attend. If there. :l!t? any questions, see team representatives Monday at Acuvmes Night or call Mike Case at 288-0416. 
Off campus soccer, golf 
Off-campus women wishing to play soccer call Kathy Erndy at 277-8727. 
Off-campus golfers wishing to enter the fall golf tourn.ey must get a partner and call 283-6100 or go by the non-varsuy office in the ACC (C-2) deadline is September 9. 
Dallas dumps 'Skins 
WASHINGTON (AP)--Danny It was the only score the 21/2 
White, quarterbadcing Dallas point undcrdo~ Cowboys with rhe aplomb of a Roger needed to win their 16th conse­Staubach, directed touchdown cutive National Football League drives capped by runs of 6 season opener. yards by Tony Dorsett and 4 But White, who completed a 
yards by Ron Springs last night conservative 10 of 18 passes for as the cowboys beat the Wash· 107 yards and was intercepted ington Redskms 17•3. twice, wasn't finished. In the 
Although it was the defense second quarter, he guided the that throttled the Redskins and Cowboys 55 yards in seven handed them their first defeat plays before Rafael Septien 
in nine Monday night home kicked a 19-yard field/oal. The games, it was the impertur· big play was a 37-yar bomb to bable White who shouldered Tony Hill that put the ball on 
the pressure, stepping as he did the Washington 9. into the shoes of a mere Mark Moseley, who had legend. missed on Washington field 
The six-year pro, who spent goal attempts of 4~ yards in the one year as a starter with second period and 29 in the Memphis in the world Football third, finally got the Redskins League and the next four as their only three points with a Staubach's rarely used under­45-yard line drive on the first study, put Dallas on the score­play of the fourth period. board ~he second time the Then the Cowboys nailed the Cowboys got the ball. coffin shut, consuming 8:28 of 
He drove then 80 yards in 12 that final period on route to plays, chewing up 6:39 of the Springs' 4-yard scoring run at clock in the process. He passed the end of another 12-play four times, completing three for JOUrney, this one cobering 59 38 yards before Dorsett stuiter­yards. ste~;>ped the final 6 with 2: 15 to 
[continued on page 9) 
go m the first period. 
All classified ads must be received by 5:00p.m .. two days prior to the issue in which the ad is run. The Observer office will accept classifieds Monday through Friday. 10 00 am. to 5;00 p.m. All classifieds must be pre-paid, either in person or through the mail 
• 
$ for 2 Michigan GA Tlx Call 4603Wanted: Ride to Albany NV area on 
SMC
Fall Break. Call Cote 287·5676. 
69 BUICK SKYLARK $2 75 POWER 
Need two GA tix for Mich. Will pay 
BRAKES, STEERING, WINDOWS. 
$$. Call Helene at 6116. 
AM/FM STEREO 350 V8 4bbl Call Before 5 JIM 3881 
Need Michigan tickets. Call Ralph For sale pair Fisher XP·95 lour-way at 277·8561. 
speakers call Rick 1761 
Need Mich. Tlx. G.A. or Student. Joe 
STEREO: AM·FM stereo. canelle. 1142 Mucha Dinero$$$ 
turntable. excellent condition 2 yrs old. call PHIL 8338 
Need Purdue G.A. tlx AND 2 Michigan student tix PLEASE call Mary Pat at 8091 
Personals 
NEEDED: 2 or 3 GA tickets for Mlch Anne C · ("Fingers") Congrals on game. Willing to pay very high your recent "abstinence" .You are price!l Call (SMC) 5431 up to Sept. truly omazlngl love Roomies 
19. $$$$$$$ 
ATTENTION: The QUAD FORMAL b I NEED 2 TO 6 G.A. MICHIGAN coming soon. TICKETS FOR VISITING RELATIVES. 
-· 
CALL PERRY AT 1419. 
Dear Ann Marie, Terri, Leslie. Joanle, Leprechaun will poy o pot o· gold 
Ellen, Sheila, Donna, Sharon, Julie, for Mich. Tlx call Jlm-8583 
Stell, Mara. Julie, Emily, Suzanne. Ann, Bill, John, Danny, Elaine, Weez, Suzie, Sr. Jean, and fantastic Farley DESPERATELV NEED ONE MICHIGAN Holt, THANK-YOU FOR MAKING MY
STUDENT OR GA TICKET 
BIRTHDAY SPECIALIIIIIIIIII The party,
WILL PAY YOUR PRICE 
cordi, and gifts were great (exceptCALL STEVE AT 277·7190 tor my "cold shower"), but knowing I have all of you for friend awill KEEP my days at N.D. speclallllllllll Yours always. Joyce
For Sale 
69 BUICK SKYLARK $2 75 POWER BRAKES, STEERING, WINDOWS. AM/FM STEREO. 350 V8 4bbl Call Before 5. JIM 3881 
Tired of morning-after hassles? We can helpl The Sex Without Com· mllment Society Is recruiting '80·'81 
for Sale: Extra large coldspot 
members. Contact our S.W.C.S. rep. refrlgerater. Perfect for dorm. 
at 1841. Junior Harassment Associ· $95.00 Call 7443 
allon 

Another football season is upon us and "The Bottom Ten" voters have gathered over a round of light beers (the name of which will not be mentioned here as "The Bottom Ten" makes no endorsements) and come up with this week's list. 
The general concensus of Ten's staff? Well, there's good news and bad for Florida fans. The Gators are returning 43 lettermen, including 18 starters. That's the good news. The bad news is that those seasoned veterans are coming back to a team that was 0-10-1 last year and finished the season in the coveted number one spot in "The Bottom Ten." 
So BT voters have made Florida the early favorite to win an unprecedented second straight ti tie. 
But things are not that cut and dried. Traditional "Bottom Ten" powerhouses like Penn, Texas-bl Paso and Northwestern will give Florida a run for their money. Of course, Daryl Rogers and the Arizona State Sun Devil's can always be counted on to find a way to forfeit a few and they will be in the thick of things by season's end. 
So here are the rankings for the season's first week: School (record) 1) Florida (0-0) like a breakfast without orange juice 2) Vanderbilt (0-0) it's tough when your best athlete is the punter 3) Penn (0-0) Quakers were a perfect 0-9 last year 4) Northwestern (0-1) come on, 35 points to Illinois? 
5) Texas-bl Paso (0-1) how do you keep a coach who's 4-30? 
The Bottom Ten 
by Skip Desjardin & Rob Simari 
6) Rice (0-0) Uncle Ben couldn't save this team 7) Columbia (0-0) the gem of the ocean, the joke ofthe field 8) Duke (0-1) lost to bast Carolina 9) Pac-5 (0-5) the people running this conference must have cut classes, too 
10) Chicago Bears (0-1) single-handedly beaten by a short Polish immigrant Also receiving votes: The State of Kansas (KU and K. St.) "Help! Auntie bm!" The Pentagon (Army, Navy, Air Force) ~ 1-21-1 last year with a post season loss m Iran 
Maine (1-0) The Bottom Ten is not impressed with sh~-outs of the Kings Point Merchant 
Marines Old Ms. and Old Ms. State 
Sports I1/ustrated 
Quote of the week: 

Purdue Sports Information Director~ on the 
prospect of Mark Herrmann playing against 
Notre Dame: "He's better than doubtfull, and 
he probably will play, but he could be questionable. Thanks. 

however, Hanzlik averaged phal and Fred Brown are great
[con#nued from page 12) 
16.3 points. scorers, so I'll just try to get 
With the trade of Dennis them the ball. But I feel I can drafted by the NBA in the first Johnson to Phoenix (for guard score too." round. Known for his defensive Paul Westphal earlier this year), Fellow 1980-graduate Rich prowess while at Notre Dame, Hanzlik said he hopes he can Branning signed a contract last the 6-7, 195-pound native of become the top defensive guard week with the NBA's Indiana Beloit, Wis., averaged 7.5 for coach Lenny Wilkensday. Pacers. Branning, ) the only points per game over his four­"Hopefully I can fill the role other Notre Dame player year Irish career. that D.J. was here for," Hanzlik selected in the June, 1980, 
In three NCAA tournament said, "primarily on defense." draft, was chosen by the Pacers games during his junior year, "Gus Williams, Paul West-in the fourth round. 
Classifieds 

Notices For Rent 
Talented, responsible babysitter for professor's 8·monlh·old daughter; 
S.1 0 hours per week; flexible
Sleeping Room for Rent Neor Park
WEST Side TV 2604 S. MICHIGAN St. schedule; $3·4 per hour ddepend·
Ave Area Men Only 232·1150 
SOUTH Bend. 234·2400 FULL TIME ing on experience. Located one Service all make TV-Stereos 25'1. mile from library. Transportation Discount to all students on carry In negotiable. Please call Mrs. lulls
ROOMS $45 MO. NEARBY. 233·1329.
service. WE MAKE SERVICE CALLS. 277·1761. Service Calls $10.00. 
Graduate student looking for roommates to share a cleon five· 
I need two tickets to the Michigan bedroom house. located In safe 
game -will pay $25 each. Please GET INVOLVED! Join CILA on Sept. neighborhood, fully furnished, call Matt at 255·7001. 12·14 for an Orientation Week-end. Including washer/dryer. On bus line General Meeting Sept. 10, 7 p.m. and 10 mlnutedrlvelocampus.$70 Library lounge. Registration forms per month. Call 288·3109 and ask 
WANTED 2 MUSICIANS, ONE TRUMPET available In Student Activities 
tor Jim. AND ONE TROMBONE TO PLAY IN A Office. 
JAZZ-ROCK GROUP. ALSO WANTED 
ONE FEMALE VOCALIST. IF INTEREST­FOR RENT: Ugly Duckling Reni·A·Car. ED CALL TED AT 8257, OR LUISA! 3045. Priced !rom $7.95 a day and seven 
MORRISSEY LOAN FUND Student cents a mile. Phone 255·2323 for loans $20·$200. One percent Inter· reservations. est. Due In one month. one day 
Will pay lop $ for 2 UCLA res. bask. wall. Open M·F 11:30·12:30 In La· 
ticks. and 2 MICH. res. tool. licks. fortune Basement. For Rent: SPacious one-bedroom apartment large enough for 2·3. Enclosed porch and garage. 160 Will pay top $ l'or 2 resv. MICH ticks. plus utilities. Easy walking distance and 2 resv. UCLA bask. licks. call to campus. Contact Ron at Pan· 8738
GERMANY. Study-tour for 3 semes· 
dora's Books 233·2342.
ter hours Purdue history credit, May 17·June 5, 1981. Applications due October 10. Write G.R. Mark, History, 
NEED TWO G.A. TIX FOR ANY HOME
for Rent: Ugly Duckling Rent-a-Car ffl·noon • Monday-noon 29.95 w/ Purdue. West latayette. 74907 
GAME 'CEPT ARMY CALL DAN 1621 150 Free Miles Phone 21>5·2323 for reservations 
MUST HAVE: TWO MICHIGAN GA
Lost/Found 

TICKETS. MONEY NO OBJECT. CALL
Wanted 
277·3575.
lost: Prescription sunglanes·block frames, black case. Call 284-4580 
INSTANT CASH PAID FOR CLASS leave message. H. Hudson. 
RINGS. Men's $35 • $85 and up. Free House Calls. 255·2402 
Allhy rich alumnus wishes GA Mlch flx. Call 277·6853 after 5. 
LOST: GOLD JULES·JERGAN WATCH I'M IN NEED OF ONE GA. TICKET FOR ON N.D. CAMPUS. IF FOUND CALL THE MICHIGAN GAME FOR MY 1526. REWARD. VISITING FATHER. CALL ED AT 8628 Desperate need of Michigan tix. 
$$$$$$$ Please call Eileen at 8042. Will pay money. 
r 

S~orts 
What's in a name? 
·­
In politics, they call it "the bandwagon effect." A candidate wins one primary and that gives his campaign momentum for the rest of the race. 
Sometimes it works, sometimes it doesn't. It worked for Jimmy Carter in 1976, but did little for George Bush in 1980. 
The Notre Dame football team is hoping it .will do great things for "the cause" before this season expires. The victory, need it be mentioned, came last Saturday against Purdue. "The cause" is a fight to prove that the 1980 Notre Dame football team is not as bad as many people want to think. However, whether or not the season-opener will be the exception or the rule for the Irish remains to be seen. 
Alas, one game doth not a championship maketh. 
But it might serve to answer some of the charges leveled by the self-proclaimed "panel of experts" who didn't think Notre Dame should have even bothered to print tickets for this season. 
And why the grim tidings from such sanctuaries of sports knowledge as Sports Illustrated, The Sporting Neu;s and Playboy? Why­
names for one thing. 

You see,"experts" are big on knowing names. Whether a kid is talented or not is secondary to whether he's famous or not. Theydon'tcare ifhe can play. What they want to know is where he's been quoted. Have they heard of him before? Seen his pic-ture anywhere? Has his name been mentioned as a potential inscription on any post­season trophies? Have they seen his face on television waving happily and mouthing, "Hi mom!" while an announcer reads his biography from a press guide. 
No? 

Well, forget about him then. And if a team's got enough of these no-names on its roster, well forget about them, too. 
"Hey, if we ain't heard about him, read about him, seen him or interviewed him, he can't be any good." 
"After all, we are the "experts." 
(applause, applause!) 


Frank 

LaGrotta 
Well, ifwe were in court, I would be inclined to move for a mistrial. The charges? Some very critical facts were withheld from the jury. Or maybe the jury was just too blind to pick them 
up. 

If you look at the football players who have come to Notre Dame and made names for themselves, you'll most likely be pretty im­pressed by the list. Tom Clements, Tom Gatewood, Ken MacAfee, Bob Golic, Vagas Ferguson... Quite a pick-up team, huh? Lots of touchdowns, lots of tackles, plenty of yardage and few mistakes. 
Now look at the guys whose task it is to fill those uniforms this season. Mike Courey, Tony Hunter, Dean Masztek, Bob Crable, Phil Carter. Doesn't exactly read like a Who's Who in College Football list, does it? So what are they good for? 
Lots of touchdowns, lots of tackles, plenty of yardage and few mistakes. Or, at least they were last Saturday. 
Someone (and you can bet he wasn't a sports writer} once said, "A rose by any other name would smell as sweet." · 
Apply that poetic premise to the game of football and I think you'll see my point. 
There are players on this Notre Dame football team that can play. Not only the ones mentioned previously, but guys like Tim Marshall, Mark Zavagnin, Mike Shiner, John Sweeney... Right now they may be prime candidates for one of those "Do you know me?" commercials for American Express, but they proved Saturday that they have everything their notable pre­decessors had-except, of course, big names. 
But if Saturday's bandwagon keeps rolling, 
those too won't be long in coming. 
Tuesday, Septemher-9,-l98U=page 12 
Irish fullback. Sweeney [foreground] wa:tcl.1es as fellow sophomore McGarry prepares to cross the goa/line in Saturday's 31-10 thrashing ofPurdue. [Photo by Greg Maurer] 
Hanzlik signs with Sanies 
by Michael Ortman terday. Terms of the contract 
Associate Sports Editor were not announced. 
Drafted in the first round by 
Former Notre Dame the Sonics (20th pick overall) in basketball star Bill Hanzlik, the 1980 college draft, Hanzlik signed a one-year contract with­had the lowest career scoring the Seattle Super-Sonics of the average of any player ever National Basketball Associa­
[continued on page 11]
ion, the team announced yes­

'Thumbs Down' 
Houston's Bum really a bumb 
He has a fitting nickname. Oail Andrew Phillips is his legal name, but the world knows him as "Bum." 
Sunday he let down the sports fans ofAmerica and, as a result, wins this week's "Thumbs Down" honors. 
It's a shame, too, because I had grown a liking for his down-home style of coaching and his plain-English approach to the fans and media. Nonetheless, he's this week's recipient of the "Thumbs Down" honors, joining last week's winner John Riggins. 
When the Houston Oilers lost the 1979 AFC Championship in Pittsburgh, the second straight year they had turned that feat, some 70,000 fans turned out at the Astrodome to welcome the team back and thank them for the great effort and season. Bum stepped to the microphone and announced, "Last year we knocked on the door. This year we banged on the door. Next year we're gonna kick in the son-of-a-bitch." 
The Bum probably broke his foot Sunday on his first attempt to derail the Steelers' bid for their fifth Super Bowl ring-affectionately known in the City ofChampions as "One for the Thumb in '81." 
The coaching display that the bumb (oops) Bum exibited Sunday was pathetic. It starts with preparation. NBC's Dick Enberg and Merlin Olsen made excuses for him all afternoon with regard to the quarterback transition between now-Oakland Raider Dan Pastorini and current-Oiler signal-caller Ken Stabler. 
Hey Bum, what have you been doing for the 

last two months of summer camp, watching
Former Notre Dame basketbail star Bill Hanzlik [42, above] signed a one-year contract yesterday with the NBA 's S~attle Terry Bradshaw's little brother vie with Gifford Super Sonics. Pi~turet! here "in the. 1979 NCAA Mid.east Nielson for the backup spot? 1 thought one of Regional champzonshzp game agaznst eve_ntflal naf?ont~l the major purposes ofsummer camp was to work champ Michigan State, Hanzlik was !he Somes first pzck zn in new players. There's no excuse for the the 1980 college draft. [Photo by Phil Stauder] backfield bungling that went on Sunday. 
After a humiliating first half, the reborn­
• 
_ 
Michael 
Ortman 
Oilers returned to the field 
for the and quickly erased the Steelers' 17-0 inter­
mission lead. In four-and-a-half minutes 
Houston had racked up 17 points and wa~ 
driving for the go-ahead score, when the Stabler­
led offense stalled slightly. On a fourth-and­
inches situation near mid-field, Phillips opted to 
toss the emotional edge and momeatum out of 
Three Rivers Stadium and punt. 
Punt! Yuck. The sound of the word is enough to turn orr the most uninformed sports fan. 
You have to take chances in sports. That's what makes it appealing-the certain degree of uncertainty that surrounds any contest. You know-it's better to have tried and failed than to never have tried at all. 
But Bum's bungling continued. With less than four minutes to go in the game and his team trailing by two touchdowns, Phillips apparently decided that the game was a lost cause. The Oilers had the ball in Steeler territory and were driving for what may have been the score which would have closed the gap to just seven points with at least two minutes to play. An onside kick, and who knows what might have happened. 
Instead, the Oilers wandered around looking for the huddle, taking their time while the clock ticked on. Then they mosied up to the line of scrimmage. 
Thepointisn'twhetherornottheOilerscould have defeated the mighty Steelers. Pittsburgh has an awesome football team and a victory over the Steelers is not arrived at easily. But no one can do it unless they try. 
Thanks Bum. 







