, , , Domermaturity-page-6 

an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and saint mary's 
A new directive 


1 Roemer clarifies keg policy 
I Hy Mat:Y Fran Callahtm Green Field with their parents and necessarily people presently af-Senior Staff Reporter hometown friends, we have not filiated with the University." reque.rted SeCJmty to confiscate the Terry then justified the 
The Security Department's tllcohol. Hou;ever, ifthese tailgater.r seizure of the students' kegs, action last Friday of confisca­are adverttsed in any form, by ad, however, when he commented, ting two students' kegs on poster, netvs stot:Y. or otherwise, then "My assistant made a quick Green Field and overlooking staff jJersonflel will bring these decision to let them (non-stu­the discovery of a non-student stluations to the attn;tion of thts dents) have their keg due to the keg on White Field has led office rmt/. Secllrt~y. extenuating circumstances." Dean of Students James He said his statement applies He provided an explanation Roemer to issue a statement solely to home football of the "circumstances." clarifying University position Saturdays. "They were not aware of the on this matter. Director of Security Glerw regulation against kegs. They 
In a letter released yesterday Terry yesterday acknowledged were just entertammg and to The Oh.rerver and hall rectors, that two kegs had been con-trying to show guests a good Roemer laid ground rules for fiscated last Friday. He added time. We told them to get the tailgatt;rs on football weekends: that the discovery ofa third keg keg offofNotre Dame property 
was overlooked because the quickly," Terry said. 
Wht·n a .rma/1 group meet.r in the people involvc,:d "were not "Security should not have done that," Roemer com­mented after being informed of Friday's action. "As far as I'm concerned, there is no dif­ference between students and guests," he added. 
Cavanaugh Hall residents were playing softball Friday 
._.,..
afternoon when they had their keg-confiscated. 


Proving that domers are always in tune with the times, these
"Security told us Sat!Jrday was 

mucky individuals engage in the latest trend; mud wrestling.
the exception for kegs, and 

[photo by Beth Prezio[ 
[ctmtinued on page 5 


50 m.p.h. winds roared through campus yesterday afternoon. Several trees, including this maple, fell victim, along with numerous limbs and branches [photo by Beth Prezio]. 

Campus organizations sponsor mock election 
In cooperation with student political organizations, The Oh.rerver will sponsor a campus-wide mock presidential election on October 2. All undergraduate and graduate students are eligible to vote at both Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. 
Balloting will take place at central locations on both campuses, at sites to be announced at a future date. Students must present their IDs to vote, and may only vote at their respective schools. 
The ballot, in addition to the presidential race, will also include the political contests in Indiana. Choices on the ballot will appear, in alphabetical order, as follows: President: John Anderson-Patrick Lucey (I) vs.Jimmy Carter­Walter Mondale (D) vs. Ronald Reagan-George Bush (R). 
Govemor: John Hillenbrand (D) vs. Robert Orr (R). US Senate: Birch Bayh (D) vs. Danforth Quayle (R). US House ofRepresentatives: John Brademas (D) vs.John Hiler 
(R). 
Also on the ballot will be a question inquiring whether or not the voter is registered in this state. Students are not required to cast votes in the Indiana elections. 
Balloting places will be open from8 a.m. to 3 p.m., manned by poll watchers from Ombudsman, College Republicans, Young Democrats, and The Observer. 
Results will be published in the October 3 edition of The Observer. 
.. 

Pugilistic escalation 
Iran , Iraq claim victories 
(AP)-Iran claimed it destroyed 11 Iraqi fighters and four gunboats, and Iraq launched surprise air attacks on at least seven Iranian air in­stallations, including Tehran's international airport, as a bor­der dispute between the two nations flared yesterday. 
Iraq said it shot down six Iranian jet fighters, and President Saddam Hussein is­sued a statement that Iranian threats to ships in the Strait of Hormuz, meeting point of the Persian and Oman gulfs, con­stituted a declaration of war. 
Hussein's. statement came after Iran d~clared its coast on the Persian Gulfa war zone and warned ships against carrying supplies to Iraqi ports. British officials said a British mer­chantman was fired on, with no casualties reported, and other British vessels were believed trapped at the Iraqi port of Basra. 
Tehran Radio reported tanks battling in Khuzestan province, north of the disputed Shatt al­Arab waterway, where it claimed Iranian artillery fire destroyed Iraqi oil installations and a gas refinery at al-Faw. 
Months of border skirmishes exploded into large-scale fighting last week when Iraq cancelled a 1975 treaty that ran 60 miles of the the Iran/Iraq border down the middle of Shatt al-Arab, which provides both nations access to the Persian Gulf. Iraq now claims sovereignty over the eastern, or Iranian shore of the passage. 
Top Iranian leaders, inclu­ding Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini and President Abolhassan Bani-Sadr claimed Iraq was "incited" by the United States and acting as an American "mercenary." 

Iraq said its warplanes struck 11 Iranian airstrips with a loss of two Soviet-made MiG jets. A top Iranian military official said "several" air bases were at-. tacked, and a revolutionary guard commander said six MiGs hit seven installations. 
Although reports conflicted, both sides said air bases in Tehran, Ahvaz, Hamadan, Tabriz and Boushehr were at­tacked Iranian officals added 
Dezful and Tolumbeh Sabz to the listLand an Iraqi spokesman added Shiraz and Isfahan. 
Iran's Foreign Minister said Iraqi attacks on "airports and residential areas" killed "in­nocent people." Thick sm-oke 
rose over the airport and the thunder of the midday attack shook the capital. 

Student activities awards money to organizations 
The newly-formed Student Activity Fee Subcommittee yesterd;ty awarded$28,11 3 in ~tudent activity fees to 54 campus organizations,Subco­.nmittee Chairman James McDonnell announced. 
The allocations represent close to a 500 percent in­creaseover last -year's initial outlay of $5000. McDonnell citedthe higher student activity fees-up $8, to $25 -that are automaticallyincluded in the tuition charge, as the reason for the increase. 
Last year, he said, all the funding was handled through theStudent Union. This system forced clubs to compete for funds withstudent government groups. Now, McDonnell ex­plained, $5 out ofeach$25 is set 
aside for University clubs and is 
distrib~1 ed through tht> subco­
mmittee. 
McDonnell listed the criteria 
used in determining the al­
localionsas: the club's mem­
bership, the club's influence on 
<:ampus andthe the group's ef~ 
fort to attempt to raise funds on 
its own. 
As a rule, he said, religious and politic1l oganizations weredenied fuf)ding. ND-SMC Right to Life received $500exdusively for the pur­pose of attracting "worthwhile, educational' speakers,"he aCided. 
This year, for the first time, the individual classes were a­warded$750 each. Before, 
lcontinued on page 3) 






NeWs Brie/§ 
Tuesday,September23,1980-page2 
~b~y~T.~n7e=;O~b:Je:r:ve~r~a~n=d~T.~n:e:A~s=w=~~ia:t:ed~P~ff:J:J~~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~~:::l 

A nuclear warhead was apparently loaded onto a flatbed truck inside two canisters labeled "Do Not Drop" and removed from a devastated Titan II missile silo site yesterday to Little Rock Air Force Base. As usual, the Air Force refused even to acknowledge that a nuclear warhead had been involved in the fuel explosion at the silo Friday. Two large canisters-one blue, the other silver and green and each labeled "Do Not Drop"-were anchored by chains to the bed ofa flatbed tractor-trailer in the convoy of . eight military vehicles. Two helicopters accompanied the procession. State police and local law enforcement officers also followed the convoy on the 90-minute trip south on U.S. 65 and Interstate 40 to the base near Jacksonville, about 12 miles northeast ofLittle Rock. It has been a long-standing Air Force policy to neither confirm nor deny the existence of nuclear warheads at the silos. The Air Force also refused to confirm numerous reports that the warhead was blown hundreds of feet from the launch hole when the silo blew up about 3 a.m. Friday.-AP 
The nine-die:it zip code should be delayed, according to Rep~ave Evans oflndiana, who says he will ask his Government Operations Committee to seek a dehy in the imposition ofthe code by the U.S. Postal Service. hvans cited huge capital costs for the Postal Service and uncstimated compliance costs for private industry. He said 

_imposition of the proposal sFtould be delayed atleast until an .tpprnpriate cost-benefit analysis -can be performed. The Postal Service first announced its intention to expand· the current five-digit zip code to nine digits in September, 1978. It would become effective early next year. Postal officials said the elongated zip would enable it to sort mail to the individual carrier route and even to a specific floor ofa large business.-AP 
Sen. Birch Bayh, chairmanof the Senate IntelligenceCommittee, has agreed toinvestigate allegations of apossible "major intelligence"failure by U.S. officials, sourcessaid Monday night. The probe was requested onSept. 10 by Senators MalcolmWallop, R-Wyo, and Daniel P Moynihan, D-N. Y., two members ofthe committee who voicedconcern over reports that U.S.errors may have cost rhe life ofl Soyiet official who workedas a spy for the United Statesin Moscow.Bayh and Sen. Barry Goldwater,R-Ariz., the rankingRepublican, agreed to the probe ina written response to therequest by Wallop and Moynihan,the sources said.The sources, who asked notto be identified, said the letteragreeing to undertake theinvestigation was classified shortlyafter it was received by Wallopand Moynihan.-AP 
C;:tlling for promot releaseofthe Amencan hostages, Secretary of state hdmund S. Muskie offered respect but no apology to Iran yesterday saying its own security and Persian Gulf stability depend on a settlement. "We are prepared to do our part in resolving fairly the issues between us," Muskie said in a speech to the 
U.N. General Assembly. He said Iran could end its isolation "from those nations that live in accordance with inter­national law" and have world sanctions ended by freeing the 52 Americans held for the past 10 1/2 months. While prol)lising not to interven~ in Iranial}.,,affair~; he did not recant past U.S. support,.. for the f.i.te pro-U.S. Shah Mohammad Reza Pahlavi. And yet, Muskie emphasized that the Carter administration recognizes the reality of the Iranian revolution that deposed the ruler.__: AP 

A Portae:e man was transferred to the Porter County Jair-"at Valparaiso yesterday after being charged with reckless homicide, resisting arrest and pos­'iession of a stolen vehicle in the death of a LaPorte County deputy sheriff, authorities said. LaPorte County Court]udge Paul Baldoni set bond at $1 3, 500 at a probable cause hearing for Sherman V. Kaechle, 38. He was taken from LaPorte to the Porter CountyJail while arrangements for the bond were being made, a sheriffs spokesman said. Kaechle was charged in the death of Deputy Neil Thompson ,30, New Carlisle, who died shortly after being involved in a head-on crash Sunday with an ambulance stolen from Nappanee, state police said. 

A recession-induced slumo1 in 

the demand for fuel has combined with the prospect ofa mild Indiana winter to yield an energy forecast that "is the most positive outlook in nearly a decade," according to a state report issued yesterday. William]. Watt, executive assistant to Gov. Otis R. Bowen, and Clarence Broadus, director ofthe Energy Group in the state Department of Commerce, concluded in their report that the fuel picture in Indiana for the next six months is favorable. The report began with the weather outlook, since fuel consumption rises and falls according to the winter temperatures. "Although the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration will not publish its long-range winter outlook until late November, other weather stations are predicting much fairer conditions than in recent years, and so we expect a really great winter." -AP 
Inside Tuesday 


Rumor mill holds no water 
Notre Dame has always been, and will probably always be, the rumor capital of the world-especially when it pertains to the University's athletic department. 
And now, Notre Dame's athletic department is once again the center of controversy. The most recent of rumors, however, has erupted across the street at Saint Mary's. 
Eveq•one who claims to have the inside story at Saint Mary's-from security officers to section leaders-insists that they know it to be a fact that the Notre Dame athletic department is planning to gradually phase Saint Mary's stu­

udehts out of the student . ~-of any Saint Mary's ticket
-football ticket picture. ...-..-' -r lotteries has come from his As the story goes, Saint ,_ _ _ office since that time. 
.Mary's students will be required 1 ;&..., ·'P "There are no plans on to enter a lottery to secure ~-;:.':>Jf-phasing Saint Mary's out of . season football tickets to Notre tickets in football, basketball, 
Dame games ·next year. --~-c;r or hockey," said Busick. , Rest easy, girls. And, as the story continues, A few additional thoughts on this is just an initial step in the , , ,..... this, the·second day ofautumn, 
eventual termination o(__ the entire ticket supply to Saint Mary's students. The story says that the Notre Dame athletic department badly wants to make as many tickets as possible available to alumni, for much more revenue can be generated in this manner. ) 
This story, however, is nothing more than that. While most of those "sources" we spoke with insisted that "I know it's a fact because she told me it was true," none of them even offered the slightest support to the rumor. Enough,said. 
Notre Dame's ticket manager for athletics, Michael Busick, helped to refute any rumors regarding the Saint Mary's student ticket si­tuation. 
"I don't know where the rumor started," said Busick. "It certainly didn't come from this office. As far as Saint Mary's students being. phased out of receiving student tickets, it is totally untrue. 
"In fact, there will be no lottery. That thought has never even surfaced." 

Busick offered that the rumor may have started because the junior and senior classes at Notre Dame were granted their request to receive blocks of tickets for the Notre Dame­Michigan State game at East Lansing on October 
4. There has been some question, Busick said, pertaining to whether or not Saint Mary's juniors and seniors could enter the lotteries at Notre Dame. 
"Maybe that's where these rumors started­

with a word here and there about lotteries and Saint Mary's students' role in them," said Busick. "The junior and senior classes requested blocks for this game at the end of last school year, and however the.y chose to lottery the tickets was up 
to them. 

Design Editor: Ryan "I Quit" 
Ver Berkmoes Ass't Design EditorsMissing Design Staff: Also Missing Life Saver: _ jeanne 
''I'll Learn'' Laboe 
Night Technician: _ 
Bill Fitzgerald News Editor: Tom jackman Features Layou jeanne Laboe Sports Layout: Michael 
''I also Quit'' Ortman Typists: suzy Sulentic Michael Ortman Michelle Kelleher 
Kathy 0 'Dell N.D.Day Editcpaisy Campbell Photographer: Beth Prezio 
The Observer (USPS 598 920) Is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer Is published by the students of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $20 per year ($1 0 per semester) by writing Tile Obaervlf', P.O. Box a, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame. Indiana 46556. 
Till Obaemr Is a member of the Associated Press. All reproductionrights are r•«~~rved. 
Paul 

Mullaney 
Editor -in -Chief 

"Maybe that is or isn't how the rumors started. But wherever they started, it's not true." 
Busick indicated that c\rcumstances required his office to lottery basketball tickets to Saint Mary's students four years ago, but no other talk 
~ A D 
.. 1980: eSpeaking ofrumors, many are flying around regarding the naming of the two new women's dormitories. \Vhile many names have been suggested, it appears that the official an­nouncement will be made in mid-October, when University administrators meet with Frank Pasquerilla, the man who donated $7 million for the construction of the two new structures. This journalist would like to refute any rumors that one of the new structures will be named after Harry Oliver, the Notre Dame place-kicker who single-footedly beat Michigan on Saturday. eon today's front page are details regarding the mpck student election, which The Observer will sponsor on October 2 at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. The most interesting election return may just be how many students take to the polls. 
Observer Notes 
-----. 

As a public service, The Observer publishes shortpress releases, better known as blurbs, submitted bycampus and local organizations. All blurbs must beturned in no later than 1 p.m. of the afternoon prior to publication and they must be tyo<;d, doublespaced or they will not be accepted. Blurbs,_ unfortunately,m are not guaranteed publication and are run only on a space available priority system as designated_ by the news editors. We remind that The Observer alone should not be relied upon to publicize events. To ensure some mention ofyour event submit a s~rate entry to the OnCampus Today section of the paper. 


The Observer Tuesday,.September 23, 1980 -page 3 
Areal troublemaker 


Irandrives wedge into OPEC 
By Robert McCartney:Associated Press Writer:VIENNA, 
Austria(AP)-Iran, spear­
heading an alliance ofoil cartel 
militants, drove a wedge in the 
Organizationof Petroleum 
Exporting Countries' facade of 
unity byleading the hardliners 
in blocking agreement on a 
long-termoil-pricing plan. 
Iran, Algeria and Libya, the 
13-nation cartel's chiefpropo­
nents of higher prices, got 
together last week to torpedo a 
plan that would have increased 
oil prices bysmall amounts 
every three months by linking 
them to worldinflaton rates, 
currency fluctuations and 
economi~ growthrates.. 
The militants demanded 
steeper price increases as well 
ascuts in OPEC production to 
dry up the world glut that 
ismaking it hard for them to sell 
their high-priced oil. 
Ministers repH:senting the 10 
nations who support the long­
rangeplan said they might a­
dopt it by themselves, 
• • .Money 
[continued from page 1[ 
McDonnell said, each class government had to startwith a zero budget. 
Clubs that wish to contest the subcommittee'sawards should submitan appeals application to the Office of Studen't Activi­tiesby 5 p. nl,. on Thursday. The appeals session will be held Monday night beginning at 6:-30 p.m. 
Allocations of the remaining 80 percent of the student acti­VIties fee, which totals $1 36,000, will be made next week by the Student UnionBoard of Commis­sioners. 
Funds awarded were: 
Alpha Phi Omega $100 
Amnesty Intern:ttional 
$300 
Big Brothers/Big Sisters$ 300 
CILA $750 
Council for Fun and Learn 
$2,0 
(Ill 
Council fur Retarded $2000 
NSHP $1000 
RJCP $250 
United Way $488 
World Hunger Coalition $300 BCAC $800 BCAF $1300 ISO $650 Chinese Association $50 India Association $200 Host Family $300 Pan American $150 
(wntirmed on pageR) 
,----------~
1 need~rinting 1 
I . ry? I

1na ur .
1 1 1100-llx17 postersl
I only$10.00 I 
I 203 N. Main I 

I I 
289-6977 1 

I 
the wizof the I
I 
I 


I pri'l~~~~!_J 
despitethe hawks' objections, hour late when Iran, which when it comes up for consi­hasbeen fighting an in­derationagain in early creasingly heated border war November, just before the withlraq, threatened to over­summit of OPEC headsofstate. turn the agenda if an Iraqi 
The current meeting of delegatewas allowed to chair OPEC oil, finance and the meeting. An Algerian was foreignministers in Vienna was namedto preside instead and 
::::;:::.::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~:=:::::::· the Iraqi was appointed alternatechairman.




Focus
:;::::::~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~:;:~:::::::::::::: 


extended by one day today so that thedelegates could discuss proposals to increase OPEC aid 
SAVE YOUR LIFEI todeveloping nations hard hit by nsmg oil prices. Butministers said there would 
PROTECT YOUR VALUABLES! be no further discussion ofthe long-term pricing plan. 
Important Off-Campus meeting 
"We agreed to disagree," a 

Thursday 7:30 pm

Venezuelan delegate said. OPEC delegates and oil 

Engineering Auditorium 

industry observers said politi­caltensions between Iran and 
Mandatory for your survival! 

other OPEC members 
All invited (even on-campus students)

surfacedrepeatedly during the Vienna meeting. The conference opened an 

GENERAL DVNAMIC:S 
At General Dynamics, our people are vital to our success. We see each individual as an asset. And we want to see that asset grow. 
That's why we need people who desire to push beyond their own horizons ... people who are willing to demonstrate their initiative ... people who are limited only by the boundaries of their imagination. 
General Dynamics is the nation's number one defense contractor and a leader in commercial programs as well. We're also a leader when it comes to benefits, salaries, oppor­tunities for advancement, job diversity and mobility, attractive locales, mod­ern manufacturing equipment and facilities, and expanded technological bases. 
Our representatives will visit your campus this fall. Be sure to pick up one of our brochures at your Place­ment Office and schedule an interview appointment. 
CAMPUS INTIRVIIWS 

OCTOBER 15&16 
B-5 MON..-SAT. 21 9-283·4395 EVENINGS BY APPT. 

UNIVERSITY HAIR STYLISTS 
FULL SERVICE UNISEX CENTER HAIR CUTTING SPECIALISTS 
BADIN HALL NOTRE DAME UNIVERSITY NOTRE DAME. INDIANA 46556 
And, plan to attend our Corporate presentation the evening before our on-campus Interviews. Details at your Placement Office. 
Or, if you prefer, send your resume to: 
BILL COLEMAN, Corporate College Relations Administrator GENERAL DYNAMICS Pierre Laclede Center, CN-13 St. Louis, MO 63105 
An Equal Opportunity Employer 


The Observer Tuesday ,.September 23, 1980 -page 4 

Rhapsody In Blues  Back In Black  A  Love Lives Forever  
·····  MCA-········-----················  Atlantic  Chrysalis  Capitol  
~~~;-ss:gg·:·-~ Tape  




off LPor 

prerecorded tape regularly priced 8.99 or above. 
Tuesday,.September 23, 1980 -page 5 

fhe Observer 

( um/ifllled from page 1) 
then they said we were going to get the keg and tap back," Bob Murphy, a Cavanaugh resident, explained. 
"When we went down there later, they said we couldn't have it," he added. Murphy said the keg and tap cost $95. 
"We send the kegs back to the distributors and get money for them," Terry explained. He added that the revenue ob­tained is channelled back into University funds. 
Bernie Segatto, Morrissey 

Advertised Item Polley 
uh of thru <~dtrrttud tltm\ t\ rtqu•rtd to bf' rudtly 
, lor ulr rn uch llrogrr \torr ucrpt •s sptc•h c.IIJ notrd 1n lh•\ •d If •• do run out of "" ,u, ••rt•ud •trm •• ••II ol!r• ,ou JOUI cho•cr of • com 
•hlr •lrm .~rn ••••l•hlt •rllrct•n~ thr \•mr \•Yin&c 
•••n(hPr., •h•(h ••lir,lttlr ,ou to puHhd\f lht •" 1\Pd ,,,m 11 l~r o~thtr1,\td iJ••rr ••fh•n 30 dov· 
100~ Pure any size package 
Ground Beef 
$1.381b. 
Hall president, said that the keg confiscated from his hall's happy hour was also not re­
turned. 
"They (Security) said kegs are illegal on Green Field, but Saturday home football games are the exception," Segatto explained. "As of right now we're assuming the loss, but we want to talk to Dean Roemer," he commented. 
Roemer explained the rationale behind his latest statement by saying, "Alumni, visitors and families are not subject to University jurisdi­
...Kegs 
ction." In the text of his .Jetter, , however, he emphasized: 
Akohol ca11not be sold. Alcohol cannot be served, sold or provided to people under the age of21. 
Violation of the keg policy carries a: $50 fine. 
Since Roemer did not issue a statement until yesterday, the question arises why Security cracked down on kegs Friday , but did not follow suit on Saturday. "We were looking theotherwaybecausewe'rejust too darn busy," Terry con­eluded. 
WANTED -Senior Arts Festival Chairman Please call Student Union ·Office (6244) for appointment 
Interviews will be Thurs. 9/25 
Contemporary Arts Notre Dame Student Union 



ARE YOU COMING UP SHORT AT THE END OF THE MONTH? 
There's one thing that's probably common to all college students They hove to watch their finances. Here's news about some help you may be able to get. 
Air Force ROTC has four, three and two-year scholarships that provide you $100 a month and cover all tuition, books and lob fees. As on AFROTC cadet, you'll enter on exciting program of .Air Force instruction that prepares you for one of the most grottfymg management jobs available today. . 
Then, as a commissioned officer in the Air Force, you'll fmd responsibility and challenge from your very first assignment ... you'll find that people respect you for what you do best.. 
Consider the Air Force as one of your goals, and constder the AFROTC program as a rood to that goal. If you need financial help to free your mind for your studies, find out about AFROTC scholar­ships today. 
Contact Capt Gottrich at 283-6634 for additional information. 
HOTC 
Gateway to a great way of life. 
PER  
Springdale  Sungold  Sungold  
2% Lowfat  Sandwich  Wiener or  
Milk  Bread  Sandwich Buns  
$1.59gal.  29¢24oz. loaf  39¢ 8ct. pkg.  
..  
Handy -Jumbo Roll Viva Paper Towls  79¢  Avondale Macaroni & Cheese 71/4 oz. pkg.  19¢  
Big Value Sandwich Cookies 24 oz. pkg.  99¢  Assorted Varieties Banquet Pot Pies 3/8 oz. pkgs.  $.109  
Assorted Varieties Totino Pizza  $1.19  Frozen Concentrated Kroger Orange Juice  $.199  

3/12 oz. cans12 oz. pkg. 

Crisp­Kroger 
Sungold 45¢ Cottage Cheese $1.29
24 oz. ctn.
Saltines 
16 oz. Box 

Chunk Light Avondale 
79¢ 
-Tuna 
61/2 oz. can 
Kroger Grade A 
Medium Eggs 
49¢ 
Doz. Ctn. With Coupon available in store 

oily Farms Mixed Fryer Parts 
9¢ lb. 



New CropCalifornia Golden DeliciousFlame Red ApplesTokay Grapes 


99¢ 31b.bag
88¢ lb. 
with coupon available in store 
California Jumbo Cantaloupe 
88¢ each with coupon available In store 


Tuesday, September 23,1980 -page 6 





Editorials 

Dtrecttve quest tons maturtty 
by Anthony Walton 
Here we go again. Time for another of the"when is the university going to treat us likegrown-ups" debates. What brings it on this time.isthe latest 
university directive, that all 
hotel;rooms at this year's Senior Formal be "single sex."I would rather stay au~ of a protracted discussion. abour the specific 
UNI


decision and rule itself, because 
it is a.situation in which both 
sides have justification for their positions, and the university being the university,is going to have the final say in any dis­cussion. At lf'ast;for now, but I 
will deal with that later. But at this point,there is not much point in screaming about parietals, kegs, coed donns, off­campus crime, social space, or single sex hotel rooms., 
What is needed right now is a 
major reassessment on the part uf the student body as to how much ol a say1that;students are going to have in determining their university_ experience. This is why there is no need (at this moment)to rail against specific issues, because the administratiolll does not listen: 
they don't have to. Students, 
through_apathy, and disorgani-· 

zation, have allowed the be) told whereto sleep and with How far does university official university optmon on to help determine what is university administration to be-whom at age 21 . There is no jurisdiction reach, and how this subject. I would say the rightfor the student body. I just ' 
come the final arbiter in all need to bring personal sexual far should it? I am by no mea~ a university belongs to the stu-think students ought to get situations, without holding1the opinions into this, as they are proponent of the parietals dents. But it seems that through alittle more involved in de­administrators the least bit subjective and, thus irrelevant. situation,but I can understand a combination of "in loco termining what is best for accountable. This is where,the What bothers me is that the the university reserving parentis" and student them,rather than accepting old"There's no reason for it, it's universitydecides to hand down the right to legislate such a disinterest that the university ih what is handed down. College just our policy" joke comes in. its rule, threatens not to help code. If students are really reality belongs to a group of is supposedly one of the major Why is the university so high-fund the formal, and it ~oes and truthfully· oppos~d to 11 · · d H 1 c shaping (actors t'n what kind 
I 
handed arid loff-the-cuff in its we -mtentwne 0 Y ross relationship· with its stti'dents? through without ~o much as policies like parietals, it is up to priests who tfeel that most of ofadults we are. The admini-Because we have let them be. a whimper from the student them to organize and try to what the students do (and stration exists to provide body. Perhaps I am misinter-achieve some sort of ultimately think)' must be de-guidance, but not absolute 
As an example, consider this prcting the situation and N.D. reform through the proper authort·ty. In cases such as 
I d. · · h cided for them. If this is indeed
ates~ trectlve conce~mngt e students really don't mind channels. But I am now inclined the case,then students have theSenior Formal room issue, I Semor Formal. As I said before, theuniversitydeclaring that the to question,whether or not the would think that if theadmini­the university position' is un-.. · . ; . cause fru alarm, because we are, • stration.'has not transmitted-the· derstandable, perhaps even Palmer House or whatever channels have been closed, missingout on a crucial part of values it wishes itsstudents to <:ommendablc in view of the hotel the formall·s held at wt.ll by either the university or stu-h 11 . D • 
t e co ege expenen.ce. on t hold, then rules like theseuniYersity's role in. student life. b , dent apathy. The question I 
. . b. fc . e the; Notre Dame Chicago i~this·, whose university is it? I get dme ~ronhg,. dam.~~ no :'ay constitutedosing the barn door
But 1t IS a 1t o tens1vc.tome to l~xtension campus for the week ,, con emmg t e a mm1stratwn, f h h think that I will be (or have to d have never seen or heardan becausethat institution exists Tahter t e ors~s arch gone.I~:::::::::::::=====:;::::=====e::.n---l:.===================================== ere comes a t1me w en you 

."'--bury b · · 
J..JUUfleS y Trudeau
__111_.. , 
SO 7UL.M& ZEKE ANP I

HON&Y,OF IA/tu., WHAT tfltu., !A/HAT HMM..MAYBe
A80UT YOIJR. 8/?fJKEUP~ JeRI<. 600/J
(1))f.!$ f()Jf A8aJTYOU?

HAPP£NEIJ IF YOU /U)/?13
, NfiiAJ MAN. ARE H& 8URNEP IXlJN R/IJIJANCe_

W/3 JUST 70ZEKE? llJIAI'S 'tr)(JR YOUR HAIR
j 'IOU GtJYS GliT-lH& 10/S& AN/) I 5AY.

MET. SOC/ALUFe f)tFFCREJITl,Y..
TING MARRJfiJ? ~Y!(!tL£/J 
IJ&CN?
US877H. I
I \ \

\ \ 
have to decide somethings 
foryourself, and there comes a 
time when you have to stand upfor yourself. There is no need to be dramatic and accuse theadministration oftreating us 1 like 12 year olds; in many cases 
they do. But until we decide to 
act like 21 yearolds and stand up 
for. desired changes, we pro­
badly deserve it. 
Anthony Walton contributes to The Observer's editorials page. on_ 
a weekly basis. 

Editorial Board and Department Managers 
Editor-m-Chief ..... ...... Paul Mullaney SMC Nrws Editor ........... Mary Leavit Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 Managing Editor .............. Mark Rust Sports Editor ............... Beth Huffma The Obseroer is an independent newspaper published by the students of the Feat
Editonals Editor ....... ... Mike Onufrak 
niversity of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily Feature.} Editor ............ Molly Woult
Senior CopJ Editor ......... Lynne Daley 

eflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported Photo Editor .................. John Maca
News Editor .................. Pam Degnan
s accurately and as objectively as possible. Editorials represent the opinion of a 

ajodty of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, opinions, and letters are the views News Editor ................ Tom Jackman Business Manager ........_. GreJ?; Hedge f their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community, and News Editor ............... John McGrath he free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged. SMC Executit•e Editor .. Margie Brassil 
'Features 
Tuesday ,_September 23, 1980 -page 7 
Ailey Troupe Performs Tonight 
Tonight one of America's most exciting young dance companies, the AlvinAiley Repertory Ensemble, will perform in O'Laughlin Auditorium, atSaint Mary's. The evening of dance will begin at 8 p.m. 
This superb group of young dancers has developed under the sponsorshipof the famed Alvin Ailey American Dance Theater and many of the dancerS'in the ensemble will go on to join the first company. The group iscomposed mainly ofstudents from the Ailey school and come from variedbackgrounds and locations. The members are "total dancers"­
ones whocan perform ballet, and jazz and modern dancing. The Alvin Ailev Rep~ttory 
ensemble made its debut on a tele­VISion special,"Ailey Celebrates hllington." Since then the Repertory hnsemble has been drawing critical and audience acclaim for perform­ances throughout theUnited States and for appearances during the regular Ailey sessions inNew York. Dance Magazine hails the company as "exciting," and goes onto declare, "It whips the audience into an enthu­siastic frenzy the way the first company does." The first Ailey school began in Brooklyn in 1969 and was intended as a resource for the company. It was never Ailey's intention to create acarbon COJ?Y of the senior comqan~. Rather, he wanted to establish anensemble which would be a cre­ative place for young dancers to work, as wellas a fine performing group. 
Through the years, the school has "fed" the primary company, and is now the major source for the 
Repertory Ensemble. The school moved toManhattan five years ago and currently has approximately 2800 students.Alvin Ailey now wants to expand the center to make it a total dance environment-a place where design, disco dancing, etc., are added to thestandard curriculum of ballet. modern, and jazz. 
The dance center is a special school for dance in that it placesenormous emphasis on scholarships. hach spring several hundred youngdancers audition for 100 scholarships, and those who win are expected totake ten or twelve classes in modern, jazz, and ballet a week. 
The company is under the artistic direction of Sylvia Waters, aJulliard graduate who studied with Martha Graham. Ms. Waters dancedfor four years with the Bejart Company before joining the Alvin Ailey American Dance Theater in 1968. A lead dancer with the com­pany, she retired from dancing in 197 5 to devote her time and energies to theformation and development of the Alvin Ailey Repertory hnsemble. 
The l~nsemble has a 'unique and exciting repertoire of ballets bynew young choreographers as well as works by such famed 
choreographers .ts Donald McKayle, Talley Beatty, Dianne Mcintyre and Ailey himself. The result is a company 
Ellen Gorman 

which leaves audiences begging for SaintMary's students with ID's are more. admitted free.,Ellen Gorman is a Saint Admission is $4 for the general Mary's student from Ohio, Illinois, ami public, and $2 for students. aregular Features writer. 
·--...---------------------------------­
College To Career Days, '80 
You've come a long way,baby. A woman today can be a sportswriter, che­mist,midwife ... the list goes on. To help women reach decisions about their careers, St. Mary's is offering "College to Career days, 80." Speakers from the listed careers, and others, will ·present·information on their jobs to ·interested students. 
"College to Career Days" is jointly sponsored by the Counseling and Career Development Center,the Student Government and the Office of AlumnaeRelations at Saint Mary's College.The program offers students a chance to speak in ~mallgroups with Saint Mary's College alumnae andprofessional women from the South Bend·~ommunity rtpresenting many different career option~. The presentors will discuss the ways in which their college education re­lates to their occupation, how the demands of their job affect their leisure time activities and. their home life, as well as the pros andcons ot their chosen occupation. 
Paula Lawton Bevington gave the keynote addresson Sunday night in the Carrol Hall Auditorium.Ms. 

Bevington, who gmJuated from Saint Mary'sCollegt: in 1959 and received her law degree fromthe Yale School of Law, addressed the stu­dents with a speech entitled "Women, Work, and theiLiberal Arts." 
The highligllt of thi..o;_.year's pro­gram is a paneldiscussion on Tuesday evening entitled "TheMany Roles of Today's Women." The panel will meetat 7 p.m. in Stapleton Lounge. Sister Karol Jackowskiwill represent women who choose to enter a re­ligious community, Dean Kathleen Rice will represent the .sinl{le pro­fessional woman, Dr. Mary hlizabeth DePauw will represent women who have a career marriage and raise children, and Mrs. Napcy Foldesi will representchoice to be a professional homemaker and mother. 
The College to Career Days '80 program will take placelin Stapleton Lounge from September 22 through September24. Each presentation will last approximately one·hour and are scheduled in accordance with the classlschedule. Sche;dules are posted throughout the campus.Everyone is welcome to attend. 
AI: Freeing 'Prisoners ofConscience ' 
Sandy Peterson & Jim Gates 
Situated on the southern fringes of 
Buenos Aires lies an empty lot. Once 
the sight of the infamous "Club 
Atletico," the now forgotten city 
block serves as a symbolic memorial 
to over 15,000 Argentinians who 
have disappeared since 1976. 
The following is an eyewitness 
account of the conditions and 
practices within this government­
-operated concentration· camp: 
Club Atletico operated as a sort of prisoner depot where the only law was terror. It was an underground, um,entilated place, without any natural light, and was very damp and very hot. The cells, called "tubos"(pipes}, were very small. Discipline was very st~<jct and we were shackled, which prevented us from moving more than 40 centimeters and hurt our ankles. We had tight doth blindfolds over our eyes. Atfirst, we suffered from infections, since the doth was dirty. The infection made our eyes swell, but after a time-we became immune and the swelling did not recur. We could nerther talk nor move and were always srtting ur lying down; when two prisoners were together in one cell, they could not talk. If there was just one noise, all the section 
was punished There were two sections. The guards wore soft footwear and opened the doors suddenly to see ifwe were standing up 
or not, wearing the blindfolds-for we were blindfolded even in the cells. If they saw us move our hands, even ifit was not to touch the blindfold, they beat us until we lost consciousness. 
Daniel Din ella (Prisoner} 
In late December of 1977, "Club Atletico" was closed and later de­molished. However, the systematic 
·· disruption of human rights did not cease in Argentina due to the exi­stence of an archipelago of such concentration camps. ·"Club Atletico" is only a small sample, not the exception. Most ofthe prisoners in this system are illegally abducted by government hit squads. Once kidnapped the prisoner is "tamed" via some method of brutal torture. Most of the 15,000 are known as "desapricidos," the disappeared ones. The majority of the prisoners are eventually "trans­ferred" to a point offinal destination. The term "transferred" is merely a prison euphemism for execution. There are many methods of "transferring" a prisoner. For example, a method favored by the Air Force is to heavily sedate a group of transferrees who are loaded onto a cargo plane and dumped out over the Atlantic Ocean. Amnesty International has led a world-wide campaign against the brutal practices of the Argentinian military dictatorship. This campaign is still in progress and will not be given up until all illegally held citizens of that nation are released. Amnesty International, as its name implies, is an iqternational organi­zation working for the amnesty of human beings detained worldwide for their beliefs, race, color, or religion, provided they neither used 
nor advocated violence. Such per­sons are termed "prisoners of con­science." 
Amnesty International's most ef­fective tool is that of international public opinion and the publicity it creates. lwen the most repressive 
governments  are  sensitive and  re­ 
sponsive to this public pressure.  
First,  Amnesty  investigates  the  

case of a prisoner of conscience. When it is determined that he or she is being detained in violation of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights (UN, 1948), A.I. "adopts" the prisoner. A complete information packet on this POC is then passed on to one or several "Adoption Groups" which exist worldwide. These groups begin a major letter­writing/publicity campaign on behalf of their adopted prisoner. They contact government officials, ap­propriate embassies, prison officials; if possible they write to the prisoner or his or her family. Often the a­doption groups will participate in "special country campaigns" to alert the international public to the a­larming human rights situation of a particular country. 
Since its inception in 1961, Amnesty International has secured the release of over 13,000 prisoners of conscience. That's a lot; but not enough. Hundreds of thousands more remain in prisons, concentra­tion camps, psychiatric hospitals. 
Amnesty's ongoing battle against tyranny and repression of human rights is being supported by AIUSA Adoption Group 43 here at Notre Dame. Since its tormation in 1977, five of our adopted prisonerll have been released-in the Philippines, Rhodesia (Zimbabwe), Argentina, Cameroun, and just recently, in Pakistan. We have continued to support our Rhodesian prisoner financially, so that he may receive a high school education and provide for his family. 

Working with Amnesty International is enlightening and gratifying, often frustrating, hut always important. If you arc inter­ested in working with AI or finding our more about it, come to the organizational meeting on Thursday, September25, 1980at4:15 p.m. in La Fortune or contactSandy Peterson at 283-7863 or Jim Gates at 272-7051. 

• 
-. 
The ObserYer 

~4:)cJlC3L~=========================T=u=es=d=~='=~=p=re=m=~=r=2=3=,=19=8=0=,=-p=a=~=8=
Campus 
2:30-7 p.m., seminar, "college ta career days," stapleton lounge (smc). 
4 p.m., soccer, nd vs. siena heights, stepan center, free. 
6:30p.m., study abroad, ireland program, carroll hall, smc. 
7,9:15,11:30 p.m., film, "one flew over the cuckoo's nest," engr. aud., $1. 
8 p.m., dance program, alvin ailey repertory en­<;emhle, o'laughlin aud. smc, $4 (<;tudents $2). 
Republican meeting 
The College Republicans of Notre I )arne and Saint Mary's will holda verr-"fhiportant 1neeti ng this Wednesday at 6:30 
p.m. in La FortuneBallroom. ,\JJ R('puhlicans and volunteers ,, re encouraged to attend. 
John Hiler, Republican can­didate for the Third District willattend the meeting. He will .trrive at 6:15p.m. All those wishing torneet him should c·otne at that tirn('. 
Wednesday 
Fast be!(ins 
The World Hunger Coalition remitH.ls students that the lunchtimefast hegins this Wednesday. The WHC asks students to observe theirpledges for the entire se­mester. 
International Students 
meeting 
There will be a very impor­tant meeting tonight in the basement of LaFortune at 6 
p.m. for all international stu­dents. The meeting deals with the"~ffering of an improved • health program by the ISO office. All foreign students are stronglv urged to attend. 
... .lWoney 
[continued from page 3[ l.e<lgue Black Business Stu­dents $200 :\fanagemef1t Club $100 
:\larketing Club $)0 Spanish Cluh $50 (~ollcg< Bowl $(>00 
hum Labor Organi:>:ation 

l-
$)()() 
Irish Club $100 Japan Club $100 Pep Rally $200 
Right to Life $500 Rook & t.:.uchre Club $50 Student Legal Service $1000

-
SURI·. $1 50 "·, Gymnastics Club $500 Rugby$ tOO,,; 
S'liling·$200;~ Ski Tea.i,il·~floo Softball ~$4:i)o Water Polo $250 Van Line Shuttle $4500 Nazz Renovations $4000 Senior Class $750 
1 Junior Class $750 Sophomore Class $750 Administrative Costs $250 
Molarity 
Peanuts 


The Daily Crossword 

© 1980 by Chicago Tribune-N.Y. News Synd.lnc. 9/23/80 All Rights Reserved 
Get Involved! 
Student Government is accepting applications for three new cabinet positions: 
Off-Campus Transfer Student Orientation Publicity 
Applications available at S.G. offices, 2nd Fir. Lafortune Deadline: Thurs. 5:00pm 
Michael Molinelli 


DION, I'V£ TALKEl> 
1ll YOUABOVT' BRIN61N& 


ACROSS 24 Stabler 1 Clobber and Berry 5 Used a 25 Algonquian 
broom 26 Beach 10 "Bad-29 Inventors to ye" 33 Silkworm 
14 Typesetting 34 Indian city machine, 36 Licit for short 37 Sub ­
15 Tidal 39 Uncertainty flood 41 Prima 16 Width times donna length 42 Surplus 17 On the goods 
crest of 44 Reverie 18 Sing softly 46 Experienced 19 Whale oil one 
cask 47 This is 20 Carriage forbidden 22 Hang in Berlin 
Monday's Results 

NEEDED: 
49 Shipworms,  26 Soviet city  
for example  27 Something  
51 Pronoun  found  
52 Steady  28 Stair part  
53 Illuminated  29 Agitate  
astrally  30 Pointed  
56 Implored  arch  
60 Difficult  31 Boisterous  
61 Coconut  declaimer  
meat  32 Blind  
63 Bitter  parts  
64 Melody  35 Magnet  
65 Flogging  38 Tree-plant­ 
whip  ing time  
66 Auditory  40 Arrange in  
67 Sacred  columns  
68Marsh  43 Spirit  
plant  45 Additional  
69 Bottle  48 Dupes  
section  50 Use logic  
52 House  
DOWN  sparrow:  
1 Smack  Scot.  
2 Get-it  53 Iranian  
3 Buffalo's  title  
cousin  54 Starchy  
4 Kansas city  plant  
5 Supported  55 Seed  
6 Cautions  appendage  
7 Alter­ 57 Show  
S Outlaw  fatuous  
9 Holding  affection  
10 Laid a rug  58 Olympian  
11 lroquoian  Heiden  
12 Visible  59 Packof  
13 Chalcedony  cards  
21 Incline  62 Groupof  
23 Pinniped  seals  

Cantors 

Guitarists, & Organists to lead singing at the daily 11 :30 & 5:15 masses 
at Sacred Heart Church A Stipend is available for Guitarists & Organists 
Contact the Sacristy ,at 7091 

---------------------------------------------------=..
~---­
h':l'itbaN~ ·HAIR:ARTISTRIES 129 DIXIEWAYSO. Styling for men and (Roseland) women who Hke to Across from looktheirBest 277-0734 Randallslnn  
TRAININGSESSIONS for new members of the Undergraduate Schools Committee I!-'''' ~ D*tesf Se~;>tember 22-24 Time~ 1:00pm Pl,ace:! ~aFortune TV Lounge • I  
,----­-St~dent Legal Services 1 ~~A_~~MENTNOTRE DAME : /LAW SCHOOL I ~ I I LEGAL A,I;D AND. DEPENDENT ASS.N RooniiB.JtZ' 283-7795 9-4:30 o~ e~ i~es by appointment J I ! II I 1!  

Ct\rrlhS from i\brtin\ on 'il. Uti. lJJ 

The Lookis Great 
272-0312 

The newest concept in hairstyling for theaware
272-8471 

Man&Women
277-i691 

INDIVI.DUAL STYLING UNITS for complete privacy FAST SERVICE (or carefree cuts and blow styles 
"Haitt 
f<iKqM~ 
Designer
~o.tt AEe'' 

st_Yiecl haircuts $10.00
CLOSED MONO~ Y TUES. W£0. 8:30-5:30 

What we will offer is the chance to work in one of the most challenging segments of the oil and gas industry. We specialize in logging and perforating. Our trucks are rolling information centers, equipped with advanced downhole tools that combine today's technology with 25 years of company experience to locate recoverable oil and gas. 
We're looking for men and women who are preparing to graduate with degrees in Engineering or Physical Science. We need decision makers, organizers, hard workers who enjoy assignments that combine the best of technology and human effort. 
We're an aggressive company that welcomes innovation and assertiveness. We provide a benefits package that includes comprehensive medical coverage, dental insurance, profit sharing, stock purchase, bonuses, incentives, and more to offer in the area of advancement potential. Make plans to talk with us. If you would like to contact us directly, write to: 
GEARHART INDUSTRIES, INC. Technical Recruiting P.O. Box 1258 Ft. Worth, Texas 76101 
Equal Opportunity Employer M/F 

The Observer 
Football 
SuiJflay'J Re1ultJ 

Son Francisco 37. New York Jets, 27 Detrott 20, St.Louis 7 Clnclnnotl 30. Pittsburgh 2B Minnesota 34, Chicago 14 Miami 20. AHonto 17 Cleveland 20, Konsos Cl1y 13 Houston 21. Bottlmore 16 Buffalo 35, New O~eons 26 Los Angeles 51, Green Boy 21 New England 37, Seome 31 Son Diego 30. Denver 13 Dallas 2B, Tampa Boy 17 Oakland 24, Washington 21 
i 
1
La1t Night'J R•1ult : 

Philadelphia 35, New York ,Giants 3 
The Top 20 teams In The Assoclate):lPreSl' college football poll. wllh llrst-placevotes h\ porenlheses. seasan'srecords and total points. ·Points bosed on20. 19, 1B, 17, 16, 15. etc. 
1. Alabama (34) 2-0-0 1,215 2. Ohio State (26) 2-0-0 1.1B3 3. Nebraska (2) 2-0-0 1.053 4. Oklahoma 1-0-0 1,01B 5. So. calllornla 2-0-0 999 6. Pittsburgh (1) 2-0-0 913 7. Texas 2-0-0 902 6. Notre Dome 2-0-0 B35 9. Florida Slate 3-0-0 770 10. Georgia 3-0-0 716 11. Penn Stole 2-0-0 569 12. Missouri 2·0·0 535 13. Washington 2·0-0 462 14. North carolina 2-0-0 434 15. Arkansas 1-1-0 326 16. UCLA 2-0-0 2BO 17. Michigan 1·1·0 259 1B. Auburn 2·0-0 216 19. Maryland 3-0-0 B3 20. Arizona State 2-0-0 76
·-------­
The Observer 

Sports staff meeting 
Thurs. 6:3.0 p.m. 

--------· 
1 . 
I ' .I I I 1 I 

Tuesday,_September 23, 1980 -page 9 
The BottomTen 
by Rob Simari and Skip Desjardin 
Vollevball 
Groce College del. St. Mary's 8-15 15-10 16­
14. . • 
IUPU-Ft. Wayne del. St. Mary's 11-15 ·15·11
15-6. . • 
Tennis 
NOTRE DAME 6, ST. MARY'S 3 
Si11gle.r 
No. 1 -Patsy Coosh (SMC) del. Undo Hoyer 6­o. 6-0. No. 2 -Cindy Schuster (ND) del. Janet Duench 6-1,6-1. No. 3 -Pam Flschetre (ND) del. carmel Maenza 6-1. 6-4. No. 4 -carol Shukls (ND) del. Maureen A. O'Biien 6-4. 4-6, 6-2. No. 5 -Mary Legeay (ND) del. Maureen O'Brien 6-1.6-1. No.6 -Peggy Walsh (ND) del. Ann Huber 6-4. 6-3. 
nrmble.r 
No. 1 -caoshtMaureen O'Brien (SMC) del. Hoyer/Tine Stephen 6-0. 6-0. No. 2 -Huber/Mary Soergel (SMC) del. Schuster/Shukis 7-6 (5-3), 4-6, 6-3. No.3-Stasio O'Bremskey/Sue Pratr (ND) del. Manzo/Maureen A. O'Brien 3-6. 6-3. 7-5. 
The Florida Gators, the defending national champions, have been banned from the poll for the remainder of the season. Florida beat Cal­ifornia in their opener, and destroyed Georgia Tech this week. In the course of those two games, the Gators scored 86 points, warranting Bottom Ten exile. 
The long awaited season openers were played' in the Izod ... ahh, Ivy League. The boys from the bast have dominated the Bottom Ten for years, and last year's league loss leaders, Penn and Columbia, have returned to the poll this week. 
So, here are the rankings for this week: 
Vanderbilt (0-2) 
clinging to the top spot after a 24-14loss to 
01' Ms. State 
2) California (0-2) 
surrendered to Army 26-19 
3) Penn (0-1) 
the Quakers displayed non-violence against Dartmouth 
4) Air Force (0-3) the unior Birdmen were shot down once again 
545J3 Terrar:· l.anc ' South !lend 


5) Georgia Tech (0-2) the wreck is back 6) Columbia (0-1) a shipment from home might have helped 7) Northwestern (0-3) Mildkittens hit mid-season form 8) Rice (0-2) and another one bites the dust 9) Purdue (1-2) its a good thing Herrmann is healthy again 10) 1980 Woodward Stakes (0-1) SpectacuL~rBid walked away with a victory ina 
one horse field. Pre-race instructions to jockey Willie Shoemaker? "Hold on." 
Also receiving votes: Arkansas Titan Missiles (0-1) the U.S. government does another bang-up job Stanford (2-1) lost to Boston College Pittsburgh (2-0) almost lost to Boston College 
Quote of the week: 
Arizona defensive tackle Mike Robinson, on his sophomore year at Oklahoma State, before he transferred: "We won seven games, knowed we was goin' to a bowl, and didn't nobody go to 
" ­

I 


ARE YOU GmiNG YOUR MONEY'S WORTH OUT OF YOUR EDUCATION? 

Bob Sykes, University of Washington student majoring in business administration 

Evelyn Wood Reading Dynamics gives you a competitive edge in school. 
-
Keeping up with thousands of pages can take a We'll show you how to: heavy toll in time and energy, and grades. If you're 

• Raise your grade point average, and have more typical, you read 150 to 350 words a minute. But 
free time for yourself. 

·I
how do you get ahead of the rest? 

• Read 3 to 1 0 times faster and with better I comprehension.
A competitive edge is important ... too important 

• End all-night cramming sessions. 
for you to delay. Whether you're thinking of grad school or the job market, let Evelyn Wood Reading • Do all your studying in 1/3 the time it's now Dynamics give you a competitive edge. taking you. 
Attend a Free lntrodudory Lesson 

SCHEDULE OF FREE LESSONS 
A.C.C. Room C-129 Today&Tomorrow 3:30& 7:00pm 
EVELYN WOOD READING DYNAMICS 
The Observer Tuesday,.September 23, 1980 -page 11 
[continued from page 12) ''But when you get involved, it certainly is 
more difficult than that in actually determining 
NCAA Director of Eriforcement told me yester­
whether or not that's the case."
day, "so we've increased to this degree m nine 
...Tennis
Say what? 
years. For us it's almost a luxury to have this 

•'There are a number of impressions gained 
many people.'' 

by reading articles that just can't staQd up in a
I questioned some of the publicly obvious [contirJued from page 12)
hearing room,'' he continued. ''We have to have 
violations, like North Carolina State basketball 

all the facts in order to prosecute, and if those some excellent court coverage,
player Clyde Austin's two cars that his girl 

facts aren't supported, we can'tgo any further.'' spelled the end forwhat seemed
friend is paying for on her bank teller's salary, or 

Any committee of athletic directors can sit like an Irish comeback. Coash's
...NCAA 
the Pac 10 (or 5) academic fiasco currently under 

down and make the game rules for colegiate quickness astounded even her
NCAA investigation. 

athletics or sponsor a championship tournament. partner, senior Maureen
''The general public never really crosses the 

The duties of the NCAA go beyond that. But if "Blonde Mo" O'Brien, who
threshold on what really is wrong,'' he 

the honchos at Mission Control in Shawnee 
asked in disbelief afterwards
responded. "To read that a person has two 

Mission, Kansas, don't get their act together 
"How did you get to those?"
automobiles isn't enough. The inclination is to 

pretty soon and clean up the real dirty dealers
jump to the conclusion that something's wrong; The end came for this tra­
mstead of picking on the ~ood guys, collegiate
that obviously NCAA rules have been violated; ditional rivalry shortly after 8
athletics are going to be nght back where they
and why doesn't someone' ban them from the p.m., somefive hours after it 
were 75 years ago.
athletic program. 

Sports Briefs. _ ______, 
Volleyball club to organize 
I ' 

There will be an organizational meeting of the men's volleyballclub tonight in the ACC Fieldhouse at 7:30 p.m. There wilt be novolleyball played tonight. However, those interested should planon staying until about 9 p.m. 
Army tickets ready 
Student tickets for the October 18 Army football game may be picked up beginning tomorrow at the second floor ticket window~ in the ACC according to the following schedule: seniors tomorrow, juniors and graduate students on Thursday, sophomores on Friday and freshmen on Monday, September 29. Those who cannot make their scheduled pickup date may do so on Tuesday, September 30. 
Students may pick up as many as four tickets each, as long as they have one classmate's I. D. card per ticket. Students who have not yet purchased tickets for the Army game may still do so. A limited number of tickets remain available for students only. 
The ticket windows will be open from 8:00a.m. through 5~00 p.m. on each of the pick-up dates listeq above. 

·~· Give your fair sharel 
United Way Student Campaign 
began. 

Where does science fiction end and energy lasers, communications systems, reality begin? It's all in the mind's eye. plus other future projects still consider­Be it the creative imagination used to ed science fiction. produce Star Wars, The Black Hole, and The Empire Strikes Back, or the more A company called TRW will be on scientific approach of hypothesis test­campus... ing and experimentation, the distant galaxies of science fiction coalesce into OCTOBER 13 reality with the advanced technology now being developed at a company to interview graduates in scien­called TRW. 
tific and technical disciplines. It was the Defense and Space Systems 
Contact the placement office to sche­
Group of TRW who made possible the 

dule your appointment. If unable to
Viking Lan.Per biological experiment 

meet with us, send your resume to:
which looked for life on Mars and the High Energy Astronomical Observatory which looks for quasars, pulsars and College Relations 
black holes in deep space. Profession­Bldg. RS/8196 ND9/80 als at TRW-DSSG are now involved in One Space Park such impressive technologies as high Redondo Beach, CA 90278 
c~TR l'-,..~..............,... 
DEFENSE AND SPACE SYSTEMS GROUP ENERGY SYSTEMS GROUP 
Classifieds 
Notices 

Career opportunity lor Business Marketing senior or grad sludenl. Interested In promotion ol area band. Would entail area concerts and midwest region bookings, c~ 10lary. call 2&8·1725 aft. o.U\.oprn .l32·3652 or 234·9246. 
Lost & Found 
LOST C"LCUlATOR CASIO MODEL TELLS TIME AND DATE WAS A GIFT 11111111 
FOUND: Ladles wrist watch near Grace Hall. Call 4783 at SMC. 
Lost: SMC school ring In lhe bock· yard ol Senior Bar aner the game an Saturday. II round, please call Eileen at 4902 (SMC). 
For Rent 
FOR RENT: Ugly Duckling Reni·A· Car. Priced !rom $7.95 a day and seven cents a mile. Phone 255·2323 lor reservations. 
"2 room apt. $50.00 month. Near. 2331329" IC 
Wanted 
INSTANT CASH PAID FOR ClASS RINGS. Men's $35 • $85 and up. Free House Calls. 25~·2402 
NEED " RIDE TO IOWA SEP 26 CALL 1475 -­
INSTANT CASH PAID FOR ClASS IIINGS. Men's $35 · $85 and up. Free house calls. 255-2402. 
For Sale 
'67 Cutlass Supreme PS, PB, AC, bucket seats, chrome wheels. Crulstn· machine lor $450. Call P.M. 234·1972 
For sale: SR 60 Texas Instrument programmable calculator, $500 or best oller. Call 1·616·695·0727. 
Tickets 
FOR SAlE: FOUR (4) GOOD GA nCKETS TOGETHER FOil MIAMI GAME. BEST OFFER. CALL JC AT 8540 AfTEII10 PM 
WANTED: 1 Ticket lo' Miami game. CaU277·1115 and leave message. 
MIAMI tickets needed -2 GA's and 5 studenr tickets. Call 7963 or 
8991. 
HELP I NEED 5 GA'S lor the MIAMI game Oct.11. PLEASE CALL COLLEEN 4·1·4539. 
'­
Need 5 tlx to Miami game. Call283· 8485, 
Personals 
Attention Republicans: This lsi!. Very Important meeting Wednesday, Sep 24, 6:30 pm In Lafortune Ballroom. Come at6:15 and meet wllh John Hiler, Republican can­didate lor 3rd District Congress. 
Are you conscious ol the needs ol your neighbor? The United Way ls , but II can only respond to these needs II given your support. Please contribute your two dollars to make your lair share count. UNITED WAY STUDENT CAMPAIGN. 
llepubllcans:lmportant. Contraryto recent leller,our meeting Is Wednesday lhe 241h not Tuesday the 23rd. See otherads this page tor details. 

WILL DO TYPING NEAT, ACCURATE, EXPERIENCED REASONABLE RATES. CALL: 287-5162. 
Important Info lor Republicans. Extremely Important meetiny Wednesday (nor Tuesday) Sep 24th. Time: 6:30 pm. Place: Lafortune Ballroom. Come early and meet Republican candidate lor 3rd District Congress. Be there. 
Ireland meeting 6:30 pm tonight, 
Carroll Hall, 51 Mary's. Students at· 
tending this meeting will be placed 
on a preference list lor accep· 
lance 

NEED RIDE TO ST. LOUISAREA lor Sept. 26 weekend. Can leave anytime aller Thursday noon. Will share driving and expenses. Call Julie 7674. 
Republicans: Dl11egard lhe recent teller. Meeting Is Wednesday, nol Tuesday, 6:30 pm In Lafortune Ballroom.AIIendancels crucial. 
Need ride to north side Chicago on 9/26 or 9/27. Call Sue, 41·5115. 
BOYCOrr SENIOR FORMAL 
Jerry, Bill, Leo, and Dan -here It Is, personal number two, It's printable even IIIIIs a little late. Hope you're all not busy Wednesday night, I need calc tutors. Beth 
To all travellers ol the tollroads, relief and solace are now available to you from Sue, Queen olthe loll· plazas. A service ol Ryan's Road Rangers. 
back Los Al)gelos section reigns supreme In section football. Thank you lor shopping -·Come again soonI 
This one's lor you, Celestel Happy 21111 
Quality Bockrubs. Call Brian 234· 0989 
-----·------­


Tuesday ,_September 23, 1980-page 12
~ports 
'Thumbs lliwn ' 
NCAA, Get your act together 
Many, many young men were . suffering crippling injunes and even death tn college football games as formations like the flying wedge and the V-formation were taking their toll. The casualty rate was so high and the concern so widespread, that the president summoned college officials to the White House and told them to do something about ir, 
Almost sounds impossible, doesn't it? But unfortunately, this was the case in 1905 when President Theodore Roosevelt initiated a loose­knit, 38-member group which gradually expand­ed it's authority into what we know today as the N a tiona) Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA). 
The principals on which the organization began were admirable ones. The NCAA was to serve as the governing body for most collegiate athletics, with it's main concerns being directed towards it's member schools and the student athletes. 
That was 75 years ago. 
Today, the NCAA gets the "Thunbs Down," for becoming so bogged down in bureaucratic red tape and organizational inefficiency, charac­teristic of another governing body, the big one in Washington, D.C. 
Notre Dame football fans can easily remember the recent fiasco regarding the televising of Irish football contests on WNDU-TV. The underlying principle on which the NCAA based its decision not to allow the games on the air, was that since roughly 40 c9-'-lle television companies ~it~in 100 miles or so of South Bend were ptckmg up WNDU for their subscribers, other NCAA-mem­ber schools were being hurt at the box office. 
Hogwash. 
Do you expect me to believe that ] oe ] oe the Dog-Face Boy is going to attend a game at St. ] oseph's Co1lege just because Notre Dame is not on the tube? 
That particular decision also lacked consisten­cy. Did you happen to notice how it was just the local stations that were affected and not the "Big Momma," ABC. The dollar can be heard singing in the distance. 
The mess was finally cleared up after the folks at Channel 16 secured a letter from each of the cable outlets, promising that their subscribers would not recetve the game telecast. That way, 
Michael Ortman 
only those in the immediate WNDU viewing audience could watch. . 
Yet the NCAA's logic can be even more far-fetched. Remember the spring of 1979 when that marvelous governing body barred Notre Dame's varsity basketball players from partici­pating in the campus-wide Bookstore Basketball tournament. Extra practice, they said, which would give Digger Phelps' men an unfair advantage over their regular season rivals. 
Wait, there's more. 
Does the name Marc Kelly ring a bell? He's the walk-on Notre Dame basketball player who filled a minor role in the movie "Fast Break," for which he received about $650. Now Marc will be the first to tell you that he poses no potential threat to UCLA* Indiana, DePaul or Maryland. Nonetheless, the NCAA told Kelly that if he did not return the money, he would lose his amateur status and thus, be barred from NCAA basketball competition. 
Marc, as you may remember, returned the money. I guess that means Burt Reynolds is a pro football player. 
Meanwhile, the NCAA is failing miserably to perform the vital functions that it must, if collegiate athletics are soing to survive in our somewhat corrupt envtronment. Things like recruiting violations and the fixing of academic transcripts are becoming common-place on many college campuses. And what is the NCAA doing about it? 
How much can it do with an enforcement department made up of 17 people. ? 
That's right, 17 people. The more astounding fact is that only eisht of them are full-time investigators! Yep, etght people to keep track of the violations at over 800 member instutions. 
"We had two people in 1971," David Berst, 
[continued on page 11] 

On the gndiron this year, Dan Devine [above] andhis troops have opened many eyes. But could complacency become a problem between now and the November 15 showdown at Alabama. See Frank LaGrotta's column [right]. 

Peggy Walsh [above] and her Irish tenn!s teammt!tes improved their season record to 7-0 yesterday wzth a 6-3 wzn at St. Mary's. The match was forced indoors by the late-afternoon thunderstorms [photo by Beth Prezio]. 
Coash stars ,but unbeaten Irish dump Belles , 6-3 
By Mark Hann11ksela Sports Writer 
Patsy Coash put on a show last night at SaintMary'sAngela AthleticFacility. Unfortunately for her Belle teammates, she was one of thefew bright spots in an otherwise dismal 6-3 loss to Notre Dame inwomen's tennis action yesterday. 
Coash, playing in both the number-one singles and doub­les positions,failed to lose a single game, and one wouldn't need a calculator totally up the 
·total number of points she lost. 
The sophomore native of 
Kalamazoo, Mich., was in 
danger only once, that coming 
during  thedoubles .  com­ 
petition.  
Notre  Dame  junior  Tina  

Stephan was serving, and along with partner LindaHoyer led 3­1 in a game they needed to even the second set at one-all.But a missed put-away ahd a double fault, sandwiched around a point in which Coash displayed 
[continued on page 11] 

Complacency a problem? 
OK, first question: 
Everyone who thought the football team would be 2-0 at this point, stand up and yell, "I did!" 
Liar. 
But have no fear, because you were most certainly not alone in your skeptical pre-season appraisal of the 1980 Fighting Irish. 
2-0?!! 
No doubt the smart money would have laughed uproariously at such a suggestion right up until kickoffon opening day. But, then again, quite a few gamblers spend a lot of their time in bread lines, don't they? 
In any case, here stand the Irish, undefeated, with two of the season's most challenging opponents buried beneath the grass of Notre Dame Stadium. 
Which brings me to my next question: 
Where do they go from here? 
I guess being undefeated after two tough games is a lot like getting a date with the best looking person in your class. At first you feel great-
But then what do you do? 
Fortunately, Dan Devine is not without an answer to that question. (The one about the football team, that is.) 
"Why, we get ready to play Michigan Stai:e," he said-which is pretty much what you would expect him, or any coach in his position, to say. 
"I think the players and coaches deserve a little time to savor this one, but on Monday the only thing we'll be thinking about is Michigan State. ­
"The worst thing that can happen to a football team is to start living on past laurels. We certainly have a right to be proud ofwhat we've accomplished, but we're not going to beat 

Frank LaGrotta 

Michigan State or anyone else by showing them our newspaper clippings." Wait a minute, Dan; we're not talking about complacency here, are we? 
"I don't think complacency will be a problem with this team,'' he smiled when asked that question. "All we have to do is keep looking at our schedule. That should keep us humble." 
How true. Nevertheless, it is a fact offootball that teams do not get as motivated to play schools like Michigan State and Miami as they do Alabama or U.S.C. 
And therein, I think, lies the immediate task facing the Irish. There is no good reason why they cannot fly down to Birmingham on November 14 with this same goose-egg in the loss column. However, in order to do that, the real opponent they must guard against is complacency. 
"A team that thinks it has arrived usually ends up on the bottom," pointed out Pittsburgh Steeler head coach, Chuck Noll, in a recent New York Times Magazine feature. Words from a man who knows perhaps more than anyone should about winning and losing. 
"Any team is capable of defeating any other team," Noll cautioned. "Upsets happen all the time." 
Ok, last question: Anyone who thinks the Irish will finish this season, 11-0, stand up and yell "I d0.f" 
Well? We're waiting... 


