
... Fab Four -Page 9 
VOL. XIV, NO. 171 
an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and saint mary's 1HURSDAY, APRIL 17, 1980 


"Is all this for me or do I have to share it?," asks this lab 
assistant who realizes one of the benefits of chem lab: 
unlimited chemicals. [Photo by john Macor]. 
Official announces possible military action against Iran 
(AP) -Iran has until mid-May to end the deadlock or face possible military pressure, a senior U.S. official said yester­day. But in Tehran it was announced that the new Ira­nian Parliament, which is to decide the hostages' fate, may not even be elected by then. 
A key Iranian leader, Ayatol­lah Mohammad Beheshti, told reporters in Tehran the/arlia­mentary debate woul take place "perhaps in June or July." 
The Boston Globe reported the Carter Administration has informed its allies and Iran that it is prepared to clamp a naval blockade on Iran if there is no 
1 break in the hostage stalemate by the week of May 11. 
. White House press secretary 
1 J ody Powell described the re­port as "inaccurate" and said no decision on such a military 1 move "has been taken or communicated.'' 
America's European allies, meanwhile, af?peared ready to take some actton in support of the United States and its anti-Iran sanctions. 
The European Parliament, re­presenting the nine Common Market nations, voted to hold an urgent debate today on President Carter's call for uni­fied steps in support of Wash­ington. The-leadership of a large parliamentary bloc has called for a break in diplomatic relations with Iran if the 50 American hostages are not freed. 
The Parliament cannot order the nine governments to take any action, but West German Economics Minister Otto Lambsdorff said yesterday he 
expects the Europeans to agree on joint moves at a foreign ministers' meeting next Mon­
Kennedy UJorks to catch Carter 
day. If they do not, he said, West Germany might go ahead with its own sancttons. 

PITTSBURGH (AP) -Sen. Ed­Carter, having-wooed the blue here anyway. Everybody on theU.S. officials say all of the ward M. Kennedy, vowing he's collar vote wtth his pro-union platform is a president ofallies might not impose sanc­
in the .!?.residential race "right voting record in the Senate and something except old Kenne­tions as tough as the American up unttl the roll call,'' cam­his wage and price control dy. Are we going to changemeasures -a cutoff in diploma­
paigned for labor support in proposals. that at the Democratic National tic ties and an almost total this hard hat city yesterday, "I've always dreamed of mak­Convention this August?"
embargo on exports. The Ira­hoping it might carry him past ing a great, important speech He was answered with anians threaten to stop oil President Carter in Pennsyl­at a g-reat convention hall and mighty roar.

shipments to any country that vania's approaching Democra­this ts not the one J had in Before embarking on the cam­he!ps the U.S. pressure cam­

tic primary. mind,'' Kennedy said in an paign trail yesterday, Kennedy patgn. 
With the election less than a address to delegates attending told reporters, • T m in the raceIn another development, a week away, Kennedy has lined the state AFL-CIO convention right up until the roll call'' atlawyer for Barbara Timm, mo-up more labor backing in the here. the convention. heavily-industrial state than "But I'm glad to be with you
[continued on page 4] In the Republican race, front­runner Ronald Reagan picked up the endorsement· of 17 of New Jersey's 21 GOP county1 chairmen yesterday before fly­ing to Philadelphia -to begin
Rice atta~ks 'moral neutrality 
only his second day of cam­paigning in a primary he appears to have wrapped up.
aspect of sex.'' _

by Tom Koegel neutrality in which there is no New Jersey will send 66''I have no respect for people 
Senior StaffReporter absolute moral right, and mo­delegates to the GOP Nationalwho would hand out condoms ral decisions are seen as being Convention in ] uly and Rayto little kids without their
Professor of Law Charles E. solely the area of the indivi­Donovan, Reagan's New Jer­.Rice decried what he called the parents even knowing," Rice dual, according to Rice. This sey campaign co-chairman,''philosophy of moral neutrality stated. Rice believes that the concept of moral neutrality, said yesterday's endorsementsmore germane issue, however, 
espoused by the Planned Pa­espoused by Planned Parent­translate into at least 60 dele­renthood organization'' as a is that "they (Planned Parent­hood is "perhaps more dan­gates for the former California• • symptom of what has gone hood) are a symptom of the gerous than pushing abor­governor.
problem of soctety. '' 

wrong with society'' in a tion," Rice stated. 
Rice traced the onset of the The endorsements were a
speech honoring "Respect Life It is this "moral neutrality" • Week'' last night in the Library concept of "moral neutrality" and a rejection of the tradition­significant but not unexpected 
to three factors occurring over setback for former U.N. Am­
Auditorium. al Catholic concept of a natural Rice's speech, entitled "Plan­the past two decades: "the loss law that leads to "a denial of a bassador George Bush, who 
ned Parenthood and the March of certainty that what we know large seg-ment of the popula­has been stumping hard in of Dimes: Society's Saviors?," is right, the secularization of tion thetr natural rights, the Pennsylvania for more than a centered on Planned Parent­American life, and a 'contra­ri~ht of the unborn to life," week in an effort to overtake · hood's propagation of what he ceptive mentality' which sees Rice concluded. Reagan. believes is a • • contraceptive contraception as a God-given Rice sees in this principal the When he learned of the mentality: the willful separa­right." "same principle the Nazis endorsements, the former Cali­tion of the procreative aspect of These three forces have led to 
[continued on page 5]
sex from the simply unitive the acceptance of a moral [continued on page 6] 
by John Higgins 
University and student officials are reacting to revived concern over the off-campus cnme situation in the wake of the robberyI murder of a South Bend woman in her Notre Dame Avenue apartment Tuesday night. A meeting with South Bend Police Department has been set for next Monday afternoon. 
Dean of Students James Roemer said that he asked Director of Security Glenn Terry to set up a meeting between Police Chief Mike Borkow­ski, and the ND Off-Campus Commissioner, Student Body President, chairman of the Hall President's Council (HPC), and a representa­tive ofThe Observer. According to Roemer, the group will discuss ''student protection: what additional things the South Bend Police Department can do, what the students can do for themselves, and what the University can do to help. 
•'This is a very, very serious matter,'' Roemer added. "We regret very much that the person lost her life. We do not want any students to be hurt. We want to talk to the police about what additional things they can do to give us security." 
The victim, Delmarie Britton, 27, was murder­ed in her apartment at 1010 Notre Dame A venue after three men forced their way into her apartment. Ms. Britton's boyfriend, who was a resident of the apartment, was beaten and tied up in a back room. Ms. Britton was found behind the couch in the livin~ room with a gunshot wound in her back. Pollee say they have no suspects. An undetermined amount of cash and jew~lry was taken. 
''There shouldn't have to be a sudden reaction to somethi~g !_ike this,'' Mark Kelley, Off-Cam­pus COI_nmtsswn, said. "The .problem is there all the ume. It shouldn't take a tragedy like this to_ makt; the_ stu~ents aware of the off-campus cnme sttuatton. 
There needs to be a triangle with the students the police, and the administration all working together to see what we need in the area '' he added. ' 
:'The University needs to become more dtrectly_ involve~,'' Student Body President Paul Rtehle mamtained. ''Other universities supply university-owned off-campus housing. We S<?e Not~e Dame operating this arrange­m_ent 10 a stnctly _landlord-tenant relationship, wtthout the restnctions of the dormitories '' much like the married-student housing 'at University Village. 
T~e Off-Campus ~ommission (OCC) is spon­sonng a program 1n order to make studet1'ts more aware of proper security procedures. Off-Campu~ Night will be next Wednesday at 
6:30 p.m. 1n LaFortune Student Center. The program will consist of speakers from Notre Dame Security, the South Bend Police Depart­ment, the Off-Campus Housing Department and the Northeast Neighborhood Commission speaking about preventative security measures. These include the installation of proper locks and how to promote neighborhood awareness of the crime situation. 
"Awareness is the key," Kelley said. "All it takes is for the students to be aware to remember to lock their doors, to be awar~ of what's ~oing on at their neighbor's houses. It's been tned in a lot of ways and it's hard to do. But we've got to do it." 
Following murder 


Crime awareness increases 
News in brief 

Thursday, April17, 1980-page 2 
Research shows high cancer rate among Iowafarmers 
IOWA CI1Y, Iowa (AP)-The ~eath rate f?r Iowa farmers from six kinds of cancer IS much h1gher than for nor-farmers indicating the ''healthy farm life has its cancer risks " a university research ream reported Tuesday. "It is quird surprising. I think the farmers will be sol!lev.:hat surprised, too. The c?.nce_pr that farmers are .healthier IS a pretty universal one, satd Dr. Leon Burmeister, head of the project. 

Anti-KKKgroup fights for demonstration rights 
KOKOMO, Ind. (AP) -Anti-Ku Klux Klan demonstrat?rs have filed a formal request to hold a counter-demonstration to an already scheduled Ku Klux Klan march. T~e mayor said he has received calls and letters expressm~ some concern about closing on a Saturday, a big shoopmg day downtown, and he says merchants are also C?ncerned about what would happen if they stayed open dunng the march. 


Weather 
Becoming mostly cloudy today with a 30 percent chance for afternoon and evening showers. Highs in the mid 50s. Lows tonight in the upper 30s to low 40s. Becoming sunny Friday with highs of 55 to 60. 

9am-4pm BLOOD PRESSURE CLINIC IN LEMANS LOBBY 
llam-2pm MUSIC PERFORMANCE don murray and friends spon by senior arts festival SENIOR BAR 
2pm MEETING sailing club new members welcomed ROOM 204 O'SHAG 
6:30pm AIESEC GENERAL MEETING (international associ­ation of students in economics and business) LAFORTUNE UTILE THEATER 
7pm ART SHOW three-dimensional objects, photography, and architectural works; opening and receprwn spon. by senior arts festival in the ISIS GALLERY 
7pm ENGINEERS WEEK debate and discussion "purpose of engineering, education and research" ROOM 356 ENGI­NEERING BLDG 
7,9,11pm FILM "murder by death" ENGR. AUD. 
7:30pm FILM, DISCUSSI.ON, SONGS k~nne~h. ross, gc:rar.~ casey, sister dolores, m1cheal clancy an msh evemng LAFORTUNE CENTER RATHSKELLAR 
12pm-5pm & 6pm-9pm ONE EARTH MARKETPLACE artifacts LAFORTUNE CENTER MAIN LOUNGE 
7:30pm LECTURE ''reflections on janos scholz in the art of collecting," dr. dean porter, nd, ART GALLERY 
7:30pm HOCKEY AWARDS DINNER ACC social hour: 
6:30pm 
7:30pm  JAPANFSE  FILM  SERIES  "double  suicide"  
WASHINGTON  HALL  $1  spon.  by  ap/ dr  &  modern  
&  classical language~  

7:.:Wpm RESPEC1 LIFE WEEK LECTURE "medical myths about the right to live," dr. eugene diamond MEM. LIBHARY AUD. 

7:30pm I.ECTUHE sean donlon, irish ambassador to the u.s. GALVIN AUD. spon by u. of nd 
Hpm DHAMATIC PERFORMANCE "uncommon women" senior arts festival closing night REGINA HALL SMC 
Bpm FACULTY RECITAL carol belland, soprano LITTLE THEATRE SM( 
8pm LECTURE "alberti's dream made possible" prof nchard betts, u. of illinois, ARCHY BLDG. ROOM 202
-

8pm MASTER LE;~TURE SERI~S "current perspectives in behavior therapy, alan e. kazdtn, pa. st. u. spon by psych. dept. HAGGAR AUD. 
9:30pm MUSIC PERFORMJ\NCE pat b~een, ellen binkow­ski , and martin sheehan semor arts fesuval NAZZ 

Judge awaits Lance verdict 
ATLANTA (AP) -A federal judge said yesterday he ~as considering a defense motiOn to declare former U.S. budget director Bert Lance innocent of bank fraud, bur said he would nor rule until a jury returns its verdict. 
Defense attorney Nickolas Chivilis requested immediate acquittals and asked the U.S. District Judge Charles H. Moye Jr. if he would rule Thursday, 
.when closing arguments in the trial are scheduled. 
''No, I intend to rule after the verdict," Moye responded. Closing arguments had been set for Wednesday, bur the judge decided to allow an extra day for final preparations. The jurors were nor present Tues­day and were not called to court until yesterday. 
Lance's lawyers renewed ear­lier motions for directed ver­dicts on the charges . agai~st him: 10 counts allegmg mrs­application of bank funds and two counts alleging false state­ments to banks. 
The jury could begin deliber­ation late today after the judge reads them the charges from the indictment, the contentions of both parties and the applica­ble law. 
Defense attorneys urged Moye to includ.e . the lis.t of contentions on hts tnstrucuons, 
, but the judge refused to change his mind. ''This jury is going to need help," Moye said. "It's not 

Night Editor: Steve "Dream Police'' Swonk Asst. Night Editor: Bill Kee­nan, Eddie "] ohns Hopkins, ya'll" Holden Copy Editor: Lynne Daley Layout Staff: Colleen Sloan News Editor: Pam ''X News Editor'' Degnan Editonal Layout: Dave Man­dolini Features Layout: Sal "Al­ways Use 2'' Granada Sports Layout: Mark Perry, Clark Bar 
Sports Copy Editor: Jim 
Shoes Typists: Beth Huffman, Mi­chelle Kelleher, Kathy Fes­tin, Nancy Russell EMT: S. Paul Selavko Proofreader: Bruce Oakley ND Day Editor: Janet Ri­gaux SMC Day Editor: Connie Lingus Ad Design: Anne Fink Photographer: Tom Jackman Lisa Gasiorek 
Guest Appearances: Ow, 
Beth Goose, Borch, Zelda, john' "Which End Is Up" McGrath, Colleen, come back, we mean no harm 
In your dreams, Mary. 
The Observer (USPS 598 920) is published Monday through Friday except" during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is published by the students of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased tor $20 per year ($1 0 per semester) by writing The Observer, P.O. Box 0, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

goin& to be a matter of my Thomas Mitchell -were indic­readmg 656 and saying, "Go to ted in May 1979 after a 20­it.' " Section 656 of the federal month investigation on a total criminal code is the law prohib­of 33 counts. ining misapplication of bank The judge h11s ordered direc­funds. ted verdicts ofacquittal in 14 of 
Lance and three co-defen­the counts against lance -one dants -former bank president of which alleged a 10-year Richard Carr, Former pharma­conspiracy involving almost 400 cistJack Mullins and contracter loans. 
TIPPECANOE PLACE RESTAU RANT IS NOW HIRING RESTAU RANT PERSONNEL 
full or part time;day and night shifts high wages; excellent benefits training:classroom and on the job cordial atmosphere 
FOOD WAITERS AND WAITRESSES BUSBOYS/BUSGIRLS COCKTAil WAITRESSES DISHWASHERS BROILERCOOKS HOSTESSES BARTENDERS PREP COOKS MAINTENANCE MEN 
APPLY IN PERSON BETWEEN 9:00am &6:00pm MONDAYTHRUSATURDAY 
AT EOE-M/F
TIPPECANOE PLACE 

620 W. Washington Ave South Bend, Ind. 
MASS follow-ed by
supper 
every
FRIDAY 


at the 



~~UNIOR......-------tt 

$50 DEPOSIT (non refundable) for S415 SENIOR TRIP to NASSAU &the BAHAMAS 
(oct 19-25) 



DUE TODAY 
SMC deposits 6-8.Lemons NO Deposits 11-2 Lafortune 
-----· 

The Observer Thursday, April17, 1980 -page 3 

The Motor City Madman himself, Ted Nugent, brought his high-decibel show to the ACC last night. Here he slashes out "Wang Dang Sweet Poontang. " [Photo by T]] 
In Costa Rica 
Cuban exiles obtain refuge 
some weeping with relief, others with fists aloft shouting "liberty" and "down with communism,'' arrived from Havana on two planes yester­day. One refugee said he was beaten as he boarded, others said their countrymen stoned them on the way to the airport. 
"I was attacked by a group of people at the airport,'' said Juan Alberto Rodriguez, his face cut and a knee bloody and bandaged. ''But I feel like it is 

Summitsyieldpromises ofcontinued negotiations 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Pre­''We have a long way to go sident Carter's back-to-back before final agreement." summit talks with Egyptian Begin indicated he had not President Anwar Sadat and budged from his view that the Israeli Prime Minister Men­council should have authority achem Begin resulted in an over municipal affairs only. agreement yesterday to hold He also said Israel would non-stop negotiations in the withdraw its military and civil Middle East on the future of authorities but maintain secu­
1.2 million Palestinians. r~ty in the Israeli-held territo­
The intensive negotiations nes. 
are aimed at translating Be­''Hundreds of thousands of gin's 1979 promise of auto­people would be killed if we nomy for Arabs living under are not responsible for security 
Israel's control into a council on the West Bank and in elected by inhabitants of the Gaza," Begin said. West Bank of the Jordan River 
Sadat has demanded legisla­and the Gaza district. tive and executive powers for 
At a news conference, Begin a
the Palestinian council and 

said he could not predict an limited Israeli presence. Egyp­agreement by May 26, the date tian officials have floated the 
set as a goal by Egypt and idea of mixed Egyptian-IsraeliIsrael. But he said the patrols or a multinational force marathon negotiations could be to keep the peace. 
extended, noting that the two On another touchy subject, countries took six months in­Begin gave no ground ·in his stead of the three planned to convicuon that Israel has the 
wrap up their peace treaty last 
right to establich new settle­year. ments and that they protect his Meanwhile, the prime mini­country's security. ster said, ''Why be pessimistic 
taking them to the airport and shouted, "We don't want you.'' 
Carlos Aguilar, a Costa Ri­can foreign ministry official who accompanies the dissi­dents from Cuba, said the scene at the Havana airport was "like nothing I have ever seen before. " 
He said aboct 300 people formed two rows and shouted obscenities at the exiles as they walked to the plane. He said he saw one man with a bloody nose. "I could not believe what those people had to go through to leave," he said. 
Rodriguez, treated by Red Cross workers at the San Jose airport, said he thought the people at the Havana airport were sent by Fidel Castro's communist government "to hassle us." 
Most of the exiles appeared to be men in their 20s and 30s but there also were older people, children and women, 
Hector Vasallo, an English student at the University of Havana, said, "I don't want Castro's government telling me what to do." 
The tall, handsome youth dressed in a cotton-knit t-shirt said, "I came alive today. I was dead. I was like a robot but now I am a man again.'' 
More than half of the refu­gees have been spoken for. The United States has agreed to take 3,500. Spain said it will take 500, Canada 300, Ecuador 200, Begium 150, and unspeci­fied numbers will go to Argen­tina, Brazil, West Germany, and Sweden. 
Costa Rica has offered to be a staging area for all of the refugees but said only 300 could remain permanently. The country has acted as a· "bridge" for exiles leaving Cuba in the past. 
the Peruvian Embassy in Ha­vana the week of April 4. President Rodrigo Carazo was on hand for the arrival of the first plane and embraced some of the refugees as they set foot on Costa Rtcan soil at the start of an airlift. 
Refugees said thousands of Cubans in the streets of Ha­vana threw stones at buses 


JOIN THE PARADE!!! MARCH ON OVER TO KING'S CELLAR FORANTOSTAL!!! 
ORDER KEGS NOW ll LARGE SELECTION of SPIRITS BEERS WINE!!! 
in advance?'' 
So far, 10 rounds of Egyp­tian-Israeli negotiations over more than 10 months have not 
JUNIORS cracked any of the hard issues. They include the functions of 
tix for CUBS vs. METS the council and the size of the Israeli security force to remain for at least five years in the 

game on SUN. APRIL 20 
formerly Arab-held territories. There was no indication in 
game time 1:20 cost$5.00
Begin's remarks or in a state­ment made by Carter in the White House driveway that 

available in 
anything more than a proce­dural agreement had been 

STUDENT ACTIVITIES OFFICE 
reached. 
I 


LAFORTUNE
"We are delighted at the progress that has been made," Carter said at the wind-up of 
first come-first serve _ 
his talks with Begin. 
no limit~r~rson 
i l 


MILLER LITE 
SPACK 
pg 
70ZCANS 


STROH'S 
699 
24/12 OZ CANS 


BUSCH
699 

24/12 OZ CANS 

RED, WHITE &BLUE
499 
24/12
OZCANS 



OLD MILWAUKEE
539 
24/12 OZ CANS 
OLD VJ BBL MILWAUKEE KEGS 26oo 
plus deposit 
~------------------------~---~ -­
---------------~------~----------~---------------------------------------------------------------­
The Observer Th~ay, April17, 1980 -page 4 


'Never lonely' 




Circus crewS boast unity 
NEW YORK (AP) -Itinerant, always on the move, with nowhere to call home, circus 
people nevertheless make up one of the firmest, closest communities left in a diffuse modern society, says the chap­lain to trouoers of the big top. 
"They're a great, mutually supportive and close-knit fami­ly in a time when the family structure generally is being torn apart," says the Rev. David Hennessey, America's only full-time circus minister. 
"You're never lonely in the circus," he says. "When any­thing happens to one indivi­dual, everybody is involved, whether it's a birth, marriage, illness, death or accident. They're one bi~ family. 
"Father Davtd," as perfor­mers and crew call hrm, is chaplain to the biggest of the 
Reagan accuses Carter of contradictory Iran policy 
INDIANAPOUS (AP)-The Car­ter administration's contradic­tory policy on Iran has con­fused and puzzled America's allies, Republican presidential contender Ronald Reagan said Tuesday. 
''A long string ·of conflicting signals emanaung from the White House, State Depart­ment and the National Security Council to the alfies clearly is causing them to wonder if the Carter administration really knows what it, is doing," Reagan said at ari airport news conference. 
1 

The news conference was held during a brief stop before Reagan traveled to Terre Haute, where he. planned to speak at a Republican fund­raising dinner. 
Reagan said the Carter administration told allies on March 25 they would be ex­pected to break relations with Iran if the Unired States did so. 

OPEN SUNDAYS 4 ro IOorn 
r----------------~ 
I $2.00 OFF I
I ON ANY 14" PIZZA I 
I I
wupon g<xld chru May!..' 1980 I Limit l Loupon (X'r l'oua 1 


·----------------~ 

But, on March 31, Carter changed his mind because he haw hopeful signs, Reagan said. 
On A(>ril 7, Carter broke diplomauc relations with Iran. 
"We neglected, however, to warn our allies of these ac­tions," Reagan said. "Consul­tation is the essence of diplo­macy.'' 
Reagan said Carter then sent Secretary of State Cyrus Vance to confer with the allies, who then responded by delivering protests to Tehran and recal­ling ambassadors. 
Reagan said Vance told the allies a mid-May date for their imposition of sanctions had been scrapped because the Iranian Parhament would not be ready to deal with the hostage question until later. 
Carter then told European reporters a specific date for sanctions had been set, but again failed to notify the allies themselves, Reagan said. 
The State Department said Monday Carter has not set a specific date for allies to break relations with Iran or to impose sanctions. Officials said Carter left a "misimpression" in the weekend interview with Euro­pean television corres­pondents. 
''This is the hallmark of the foreign policy of the Carter administration -inconsistency undependability and contradic­tion. Is it any wonder that the allies we need now more than ever find our actions so incom­prehensible?" Reagan said. 
Reagan, who most observers feel has a commanding lead in the Indiana May 6 primary, said he still planned to cam­paign hard. Reagan is now the only Republican candidate wagin~ an active personal cam­paign 10 Indiana. 


An Tostal sponsors tuck-ins 

The An Tostal Committee will sponsor a ruck-in service next week. Students may sign up for this service at both dimng halls at dinner tonight. 
three-ring spectaculars, the Ringling Brothers and Barnum & Bailey Circus. 
"I love it," he said in an interview. ''The gypsy life suits me, the travehng, the fresh air, dealing with young strong-hearted people. It's t~e finest and cleanest entertam­ment in the world today.'' 
Although he has watched hundreds of performances and rarely misses one, "I enjoy every minute of it. There's always somethin~ different, something new, 10 every per­formance. It's a phenomenon.'' 
Hennessey, 68, an amiable, bespectacled Roman Catholic asstgned to the circus ministry two years ago by a U.S. church commission for people on the move, said circus life exempli­fies religious concepts. 
Like the church and human existence itself, he said, the circus i.s a pilgrimage, "a continual journey with no last­ing city, your home a trailer or train car," reflecting the tran­~itory nature of earthly expe~­tence. 
"It makes for more under­standing of human values. With all the joys and sorrows, the circus rolls on." 
"It's bigger than life," he said. ''The world needs that sort of fantasy. It takes away from the drabness and trials of ordinary life. " 

But the key way in which the circus represents a sort of model for others, he said, is in its interdependence, the reli­ance· of its people on each other. "They've got to pull together," he said. 
''The success of their careers, even their lives, depend on it. Each member of an act de­pends on the others and they can't let each other down. It demands a high degree of discipline and mutual trust. No matter what, that solidarity shows through." 
He holds twice weekly WL ~­ship services for the circus people, plus a steady round of counseling on personal pro­blems, officiating at ceremo­nies, visiting the ill or injured, catechism classes for circus children. 
It's an ecumenical ministry, with about a third of the 300-member company being Catholics, most of the others Protestants. 
"They all know I'm with them without distinction," he said. ''The door of my van is open to all. I have a very good rapport with circus people. I'm one of 
· them." 
More layoffs Auto woes continue 
DETROIT (AP) -The battered 
auto industry suffered another 
blow yesterday as General 
Motbrs Corp. announced inde­
finite layoffs of more than 
12,000 production employees. 
The announcement came only a day after Ford Motor Co. said it would lay off 8,900 produc­tion workers and 6,100 white­collar employees. 
It was the biggest production cutback yet in the current slump for GM, the nation's largest automaker. 
Assembly line speeds will be cut in four plants and an entire shift will be dropped in one of those and four others. 
GM said it acted to "further balance production with cur­rent market conditions.'' 
What :hat means, said spokesman Bruce MacDonald, is "incoming dealer orders." 
The dealer's business is re­duced because customers "can't get car loans and he's ordering less for his own inventory because it costs so much to carry it. 
"We no't run our assembly lines without orders from dea­lers." 
Shifts are being dropped at the Cadillac plant in Detriot and at Leeds, Mo.; Janesville, Wis, and Norwood, Ohio. Lines 
[continued from page 12] 
)alanced boxscore. 
Strappamasquon and the Combat Wombats defeated Midnight Cruisers, 21-12. The winners played without regular, Greg Knafelc who is suffering from a strep throat, and they were forced to start whithout Mike Courey because of a late practice. Courey arrived in time and paced the winners with eight points on 12 attempts. Teammate Pete Holohan hit seven of 16 are being slowed at]anesville; Lansing, Mich.; Lordstown, Ohio; Linden, N.J. and Toron­to. 

... Iran 

[continued from page 1} 
ther of Tehran hostage Kevin Hermening, said the Moslem militants holding the U.S. Em­bassy promised to announce by today their conditions for al­lowing relatives to visit the hostages. 
Mrs. Timm is in Paris, trying to get a visa from the Iranian Embassy there to go to Tehran. Her lawyer, Carl McAfee, con­tacted the militants by tele­phone from the French capital. 
The U.S. deadline for Iranian action was disclosed by a senior Carter aide, who told reporters the president might order further retaliatory moves as early as today but will not consider military steps until after mid-May. 
That will give the Iranians sufficient time to "respond positively" to the non-military 
U.S. pressure, said the aide, who declined to be identified. 
attempts. 
Today's action features P.F. and the FLYERS, with Lew Pagley, behind the bookstore at 
5:30. The Jacksonless Five, featuring Ttm Koegel, Tim Tripp, and Mark Norman will play on the same court at 6:45. 
Tournament commis~ioner, Rob Simari warns all teams with football players on their rosters that their games will start at the scheduled time unless officially changed by the commissioner. 
... Bookstore 
The Observer Thursday, April17, 1980 -page 5 
White collar discrimination 
Law-suit has new-tw-ist 
DALLAS (AP) -In the battle The two women filed their against sex and racial discrimi­suit in 1973, seeking rein­nation on the job, it has been statement and back pay. Ellen 
the workers on the assembly Johnson said she was turned lines, the workers in the facto­down for the bank's manage­ries, the workers in the typing ment trainee program because 
pool who have led the way. she was a black woman; Joan 
Until now. In Dallas, two ··Rance Yuyanich, a clerical black women-one who was worker, said she was fired refused a job, one who was because she married a white 
fired after marrying a white man. 
man-have taken on the Republic denied their char­South's largest bank in a class ges, but bank officials admit action suit aimed at top level they did not take the law suit management positions. seriously enough at first and 
The suit charges that women lost some early rounds in the and blacks have been denied lengthy court fight. an equal chance to rise into One big round was lost in 
such white-collar jobs at the 1978, when U.S. District Judge bank, jobs they claim are Patrick Higginbotham allowed reserved almost exclusively for the case to become a class 
white males. action suit. His ruling said the · The target is Republic Na­plaintiffs had shown the bank's tional Bank, the nation's 21st ''personnel practices have largest. The bank is faced with been infested to the core by 
a demand to reinstate or give racial and sex discrimination." back pay to 15,000 women and The decision referred to Title blacks who worked, or applied VII of the Civil Rights Act of for jobs, at Republic in the last 1964, the section guaranteein~ 
10 years. equal employment opportum­An adverse ruling could cost ties regardless of race or sex. the bank more than $50 mil­. ''There is bitter irony in the lion. A decision in the six-year circumstances that after over case, which was tried last fall, 12 years under Title VII only is expected by the end of May. three blacks have managed to 
Legal experts say the suit is meet the 'standards' for filling unusual because it involves one of the 514 officer positions white-collar jobs, in which of the largest bank in the j~d_gements on promotions and South ... ,'' Higginbotham 
hmng are much more subjec­wrote. "To accept this 'statis­tive than those involving blue­tic' with aplomb renders Title 
collar workers. VII a cruel hoax.'' 


Chrysler may fail FED loan requiretnents 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Chrys­source it wants to." But he er Corp.'s financial situation is indicated that may be the limit in "a fluid state" and the of the board's ability to help. decision on whether it has "We'll be saying in the next qualified for $1. 5 billion in couple of weeks" whether federal aid will be made within a Chrysler does qualify he said. few weeks, Treasury Secretary The board must approve 
G. William Miller said Tues­Chrysler's financing program day. before the automaker can re­
Miller would not say whether ceive the federal loan guaran­he thinks Chysler will be able tees. to fulfill the requirements for Chrysler had several other obtaining the federal loan setbacks in recent weeks. guarantees that the automaker Hmisehold Finance Corp., contends are necessary to keep which talked of paying $320 it operating. million for a majority interest in 
"l cannot say whether I'm Chrysler Financial Corp., a optimistic or pessimistic," Mil­subsidiary of the automaker, ler told reporters. "It's a diffi­backed out of the deal, accor­cult task. It can be done, it's ding to a Chrysler announce­possible, but difficult." ment. 
Chrysler said last week it Chrysler agreed on Friday to expected to lose $750 million in repair rusty fenders on some 1980, about $100 million more 200,000 1976 and 1977 Dodge than it had estimated P.revious­Aspens and Plymouth Volares ly. It lost nearly $1.1 btllion last at a total estimated expense of year. $45 million. 
It also said it will need to draw more from the govern­ment assistance package than it had estimated earlier. 
Freshmen 

Under legislation enacted by Congress, Chrysler must raise $1.43 billion from non-federal 

to hold

sources, including $400 million in loans from commercial banks, to qualify for the $1.5 billion in federal loan guaran­

class formal 

tees. The Federal Loan Guarantee The Freshman Class FormalBoard, said iast week that will be held on April 25 from 9Chrysler has proposed chang­p.m. to 1:30 a.m. at theing the mix of the financing. 
Knollwood Country Club. TheAmong other changes, it band "Arcade" will performwould reduce the amount of the and there will be a cash barnew bank loans to $209 million. 

and hors d' oeuvres. Transpor­The board also said Chrysler tation will be provided.

had ''seriously underestimated Tickets will be on sale in theits need for federal assistance." 
North and South Dining HallsMiller said Tuesday that the today, tomorrow, and Saturdayboard ''will be as flexible as we at dinner. The tickets will cost can as far as permitting Chrys­$8 per couple.

ler to raise the money from any 

NEW YORK (AP) -The big edition. jump in oil prices last year Among other shifts in the helped push Exxon past Gene-top positions, Mobil Corp. took ral Motors as the nation's over the No. 3 position from largest industrial corporation Ford Motor Co., which drop­and left other oil companies ped to No. 4. holding six of the top 10 spots, The 500 largest industrial Fortunemagazine reported yes-companies reported total sales terday. • oi $1.4 trillion in 1979, an 18.6 
Exxon topped the business percent increase from 1978 magazine's Fortune 500 list for sales and the largest gain in 1979, with sales of $79 billion five years. compared to GM's sales of $66 . Net income, bolstered by bi~ billion. Jumps ~or the nation's big od 
It was the fourth time in 25 compames, rose 27 percent to years that Exxon had surpas-$78.2 billion. That total was sed GM in sales. But Exxon's also larger than the 17 percent sales advantage of almost $13 rise in profits in 1978. billion was a much wider Petroleum refiners and crude margin than GM had ever oil producers far outpaced held, Fortune reported in an other industries in profit in­advance copy of its May 5 creases. Median profits for both mining, which includes oil production, and refining rose about 75 percent, Fortune said. 
By comparison, the other standout industry, metal man­ufacturing showed a 31 percent profit increase. 
Troubled Chrysler Corp., which had been ranked as the nation's lOth largest industrial company, dropped to 17th place as its sales fell to $12 billion in 1979, down $4 billion from the previous year. 
Chrysler also reported a $1. 1 billion loss last year-more than twice the size of any previously reported loss for an American business and greater than the sales of 235 of the companies on the Fortune 500 list. 
, , , Kennedy 
endorsement is from the 130,000-member Pennsylvania State Education Association the union that represents mos; the teachers outside Philadel­phia and Pittsburgh. The presi­dent also enjoys the backing of the 70,000 state United Mine Workers union. 
[continued from page 1] 
fornia governor exclaimed, 
''This means the state of New Jersey and that is a great deal." 
Kennedy, beginning a three­day campaign sprint, has in the past few weeks picked up the backing in Pennsylvania of the Workers and the International Association of Machinists, two groups that climbed aboard some time ago, along with the Service Employees Internation­al Union, which signed up with Kennedy in Washington on Monday. 
Carter's most powerful labor 
Hospital Workers Union, the Transport Workers Union, the Amencan Federation of State, County and Municipal Employ­ees, and the state branch of the American Federation of Teachers. 
They join the United Auto 
SMC officers announce deadlines 
Nominations for Saint Mary's class and hall officers will be accepted until midnight on Sunday. Students wishing to make nominations should con­tact Pia Trigiani, 404 LeMans (4693) or Kathleen Sweeney, 444 Holy Cross (4727). Contes­tants for an office are asked to submit three copies of their platform to either Trigiani or Sweeney before the Sunday deadline. 
Cam,paigning may be done from Sunday through midnight on Wednesday. Elections will 
~e held from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. 10 LeMans Hall and in th<.. cafeteria duri'lg dinner. 
For further information, con­tact Trigiani or Sweeney. 

~--­

The Observer Thursday, April17, 1980 -page 6 
Becker assumes directorship 
area.'' Becker is also respon­
sible for the parent and 
alumnae fund direct mail cam­
paigns planned giving as well 
as the National Phon-a-thon. 
"The Phon-a-thon is coming 
up soon. The staff and 
students spend a specific 
amount of time calling alumnae 
all over for donations," ex­
plained Becker. 

Another important · fund 
raiser is the Mad eleva Society. 
"Alumnae solicit funds from 
other alumnae in honor of the memory of Sister Madeleva. There ts also an Anniversary Club in which members contri­bute a yearly donation that ·matches the years the college has been around.'' Becker also added that wills and trust funds are set up to benefit the 
college. 

''The Office of Development 
has developed slowly during 
the past years. The depart­
ments of alumnae and public 
relations are so interrelated 
with development that under 
the direction of Larry Durance, 
the vice president of college 
relations, they have merged," Becker explained. 
Becker received his B.A. in Political Science from Xavier University in Cincinnati, Ohio in 1971. He holds a master's degree in public affairs from Indiana University. Prior to his job with the Bureau of Em­ployment and Training in South Bend he was coordinator of sales training at the Selmer Company Division of Magnovox in Elkhart. Becker assumed the position at Saint Mary's on April 1. 
by Mary_ Kay Leydon Stajj Reporter 
Thomas Becker, a former director of planning at the Bureau of Employment and Training in South Bend has assumed the position of Direc­tor of Development at Saint Mary's College. Becker defin­ed his duties by saying, "I am responsible for the Saint Mary's annual fund which is the pool of money brought into the college each year." 
There are a number of different programs which fund the college. "The Business Program mvolves businesses of Elkhart, St. Joseph's county, Niles and Buchanan which contribute about a thousand dollars a year in exchange for an association with the school through three or four meetings a year held at the school, and an internship program with the business department of Saint Mary's." 

Becker also added that, ''The association also brings benefits to the surrounding 

applications are auailable in the Student Union Office 
The deadline is FRIDAY APRIL 18 

IN CASE YOU'VE MISSED US... WE'VE MISSED YOU! 
Over the past decade, Michael & Co. has been pleased to serve all of our valued Notre Dame and St. Mary's customers. Recently, we moved from our old Edison Rd. at Ind. 23 location which was just% mile away. Now we're only 2% miles away! Still on Edison Rd. Still convenient. Still the one. We welcome you to visit us soon at our all new salon. 
Fearuring hair and skincare products bv: 



Dr. Harvey A. Bender, pro­fessor of biology at Notre Dame, has been named co­chairman of a national genetic education work group, serving as an advisory body to the Genetic Disease Services Branch of the Department of Health, Education and Wei­
• • • ProfessorRice 
[continued from page 1) 

gious group . . . inherently used towards the Jews; that of hostile towards the Catholic defining a human being as a Church. The two forces in 
non-person.'' conflict are the forces of secu­
Rice is a firm believer in an lar ideology and the Catholic "absolute moral ethic that has Church and its principles." always been present." He sees As evidence of Planned Pa­
this ethic, as promoted by the renthood's hostility towards Catholic Church, in direct op­the Catholic Church, Rice dis­position to the current secular played various derogatory car­humanism presented by Plan­toons and leaflets which had ned Parenthood. been circulated by Planned Planned Parenthood, in their Parenthood. One featured the literature, pretends to take no Virgin Mary surrounded by moral religious position but the numerous children, with the fact that they don't is an caption, "What, me worry?" inherently religious position,'' Although Planned Parenthood 
Rice stated. "An action is later withdrew the booklet, either morally right or worng.'' Rice said he dido' t think that it Moral neutrality is not neutrali­is coincidental. ty, it is the judgement that Rice believes that Planned there is no one correct moral Parenthood is necessarily hos­judgement.'' Rice made it clear tile to the Catholic Church, that he disapproved of such a because "in order to institu­
belief. tionalize the contraceptive et­Rice also suggested that Plan­hic, Planned Parenthood has to ned Parenthood's views are "a deal with its major opponent." way for the white, upper-mid­Rice finds the same ''moral 
de class to solve the welfare neutrality'' in the efforts of the problem and to prevent the rise March of Dimes in the area of of the minorities.'' Rice cites amniocentesis, where the as evidence of this view the March does not recommend 
concentration of Planned Pa­any course of action when the renthood's efforts on the poor unborn child is found to be minorities and the young, and defective in some manner. sees in this cost-effectiveness Rice also disagrees with Uni­another similarity to Nazi justi­versity President Fr. Theodore fications of the Holocaust. Hesburgh's comments on the 
Rice also quoted the views of inadvisability of electing candi­the ''patron saint of Planned dates on a one issue (abortion) Parenthood," Margaret San­basis. ger, to indicate some possible ''I think one issue voting is 
underlying motives to contra­valid in some cases,'' he said. ception. Rice quotes Sanger as ''Abortion should be a disqua­
promoting birth control as ·lifying issue in the sense that "more children for the fit, less one should not vote for any from the unfit, and as produc­pro-abortion candidate. How­ing a ''race of thoroughbreds.'' ever, one should not vote for a 
Rice emphasized Planned Pa­candidate simply because he is renthood as a "primarily reli-anti-abortion.'' 
fare's (HEW) Office for Mater­nal and Child Health. 
The seven-member committee was formed to plan strategies for educating physicians, gene­tic specialists and counselqrs, and other segments of the public about genetics and to advise HEW in its educational programs. 
Genetics, the study of inherit­ed disorders and hereditary characteristics, is a young and fast growing field, said Ben­der, making dissemination of information especially necessa­ry. ''There are more than 3, 000 genetic diseases," he added, "and most older physicians did not take li gem·tics course in medical school. And while the amount of scientific knowledge doubles every lf) years and knowledge in the life sciences doubles every five years, what we kno"" about genetics dou­bles every two years. '' 
Bender, a member of the Indiana Genetic Disease Pro­gram Advi&ory Committee and expert wi1ness on genetics with the U.S. Department of Jus­tice, is also director of South Bend Memorial Hospital's Re­gional Genetics Counseling Cli­nic and i~ an adju1.ct professor of medical genetics with the Indiana Universiry School of Medicine. 
Conlon to speak on N.Ireland 
Sean Donlon, Irish ambassador to the United States, will discuss ''Irish Government Po­licy on Northern Ireland," to­night at 7:30p.m. in the Galvin Life Science Audttorium. The program is open to the public. 
Before his appointment as ambassador in 1978, Donlon served in the Department of Foreign Affairs in Dublin, with responsibility for Northern Ire­land activities. He is a gradu­ate of National University and served in both the Cosgrove and Lynch presidencies. 

• 
The Observer Thursday, Aprill 7, 1980 -page 7 """I 
Ginzburg advocates boycott 
BLOOMINGTON, Ind. (AP)­before he was released last Exiled Soviet dissident Alex­April, said the Soviets intend ander Ginzburg said yesterday for the Olympics to be "a a U.S. boycott of the Moscow showcase for communism." Olympics would be "a tremen­Ginzburg made his com­dous blow to the prestige of the ments at a news conference at Soviet government in the eyes Indiana University. of its own people." Asked if boycotting the 
Ginzburg, who spent nine Olympics was more important years in Soviet prison camps then giving athletes an oppor­
'C' team wins 
ND ruggers split with Griffins 
by Mike Previte Zidar booted a field goal and Sports Writer also added the two point conversion kick on Steve It is normal for the varsity or Iselin's try. Iselin's try was set 
"A" squad in a selected sport up by a fine run from Mike to receive all of the headline. 
mitchell. The Irish led at the This past weekend, however, close of the first half 9-3. 
warrants the opposite as far as A rash of penalties againstNontre Dame Rugby is con­the Irish in the second stanza 
cerned. For it was the Green led to 13 unanswered Chicagoand Gold "C" team that points and a tough-to-take 16-9 salvaged a split with the defeat. The absence of Brian 
Chicago Griffins, in chalking up McManus , Pat Giorgio and a~ impressive 19-0 shutout Brian Tucker definitely was felt VICtory. throughout the contest. Freshman]ohn Gallo opened The Irish "B" squad notched 
up the Irish scoring with a four a 4-4 deadlock wuh Chicago,point try, giving them a lead thanks to a first half try by Sean 
that was never threatened. Dan Dempsey. Frank Hopke and Pearl and]oe Witcher notched Glen Gercheff set uplater trys and John Muldoon, Dempsey's effort. 
who played an outstanding The Irish host ] ohn Carroll game for Notre Dame, added a University Saturday afternoon 
field goal in the second half. at Stepan field. The match The Notre Dame "A" club looms as the final opportunitybroke out fast and furious for rugby enthusiasts to see the 
against the Griffins in the first graduating seniors at home. half of their match. Jim "Z" 
... Netters 

[continued from page 12] 
ed Harris, ''it would have been all over. But I just kept coming to the net early, doing what I could, as fast as I could.'' 
Harris also teamed with his usual doubles partner Herb Hopwood and continued his winning ways as the duo posted a 1-6, 6-3, 6-2 win. 
The Irish drove the vis-itors into a corner in a hurry, taking a comfortable 4-2 lead into the doubles competition. In addi­tion to Harris, junior Mark Hoyer and sophomore Tom Robison earned victories . at fourth and sixth singles, re­spectively, as did number two man Mark McMahon. 
McMahon's win was especial­ly significant to the local au­dience. His opponent, Jeff True, graduated from South Bend Adams High School in 1976 and remains a local favorite. True disappointed his hometown fans, however, in a nerve-racking nail-biter. 
After taking the first set from McMahon, True be~an to falter and McMahon utilized his smooth, well-controlled ground strokes to take the second. In the decisive set, the two very similar style players battled to six-all and mto a best-of-a­nine-point tie-breaker. The two traded points twice before Mc­Mahon took a commanding 4-2 advantage enroute to the 4-6, 6-3, 7-6, (5-3) win. 
"He (McMahon) was the last guy I wanted to play in this weather (sunny, cold)," said Druz. "I won the first set, so there shouldn't be any excu­ses. He was tough, there's no question about it." 
Druz had expected to see Harris who had filled the number two singles spot for the first 12 matches this sea­son. ''I've gor to hand it to coach (Tom Fallon) for a smart coaching move,'' said True who has coasted to an easy straight-set win over Harris last season. ''He matched simi­lar styles which was to Notre Dame's advantage. 
Fallon and True are no stran­gers. Chris Fallon, the coach's son. teamed with True at Adams at number-one doubles in 1974, leading the Eagles to the state championship. 
"IfJeff had been able to pull out his singles match, it might have been a different story," explained Hoosier coach Scott Greer. "But four days off didn't help either (IU hadn't played since Saturday while the Irish hac played Tuesday). We knew Notre Dame would be tough, and they just played a tremendous match.'' 
McMahon added insult to injury when he teamed with Hoyer to wipe out True and Ray Leonard, 6-2. 6-3 in the number two doubles match. 
"I knew our guys had the heart," said Fallon, "but I wasn't sure we had the ability. I guess I just underestimated them. They put it all together out there and played a tremen­dous match." 
The .victory gives the Irish excl~s1ve bragging rights to tenn.ls sup~emacy 10 the state. Earlier wms over intrastate rivals Indiana State Purdue a~d even Ball Stat~ coupled With ~esterday' s trouncing, ~eave ~mle, doubt as to just who IS Ind1ana s best tennis team. 
The Irish won't have long to catch their breath as they must prepare for another tough Big Ten match at Northwestern on Sunday afternoon at 1:00. 


tunity to compete, Ginzburg said, ''From the beginning of the games in Greece, they (Olympics) have not been a celebration of sports, but a celebration of peace." He said if the Games are held in Moscow, they will be neither. 
''It would be difficult to think that Moscow will with­draw its troops from Afghani­stan as a result of an Olympic boycott but perhaps the boycott will have the effect of prevent­ing Moscow from moving its troops into Pakistan,'' he said. 
Ginzburg described the cur­rent situation in Iran as "a major victory for Soviet foreign policy." He said that under the circumstances, the United States has no access to Iranian oil and no military bases from which to observe Soviet mili­tary activities in the area. 
Ginzburg endorsed President Carter for re-election and said that ''as far as foreign policy toward the Soviet Union. is concerned, he has done more than any other president or any of his competitors have shown they intend to do.'' 
This week,nd at River City Records... 
SPRING SAlE I 
-

Sl.OOOFFALLALBUMS, TAPES, BLANK TAPES & RECORD CRATES ­NO LIMIT I 
(no coupon necessary) 
• 
All albums & topes Sl.OO off-No Limit! 

• 
All blank topes Sl.OO off-No Limit! (we carry T[)K, maxell, memorex and BASF) 

• 
S2.00 off Discwoshers 

• 
Tap~ Cases ·half Price 

• 
All posters Sl.OO off .._ (special album cover posters available) P 

• 
Concert Tickets Available 

• 
Free Bo Derek and WffiET rock posters with purchase 

• 
ND/SffiC checks cashed up t9 S20.00 over purchase amount 

• 
Open until ffiidnight Thurs.-Sun. for sole! 

• 
Random TShirt Giveaways 


SALE. HOURS: 
Campus construction work and spring rains combine to make 
the going hazardous at times for students. [Photo by Greg 
Maurer]. 
Thursday April17 
Friday April18 .Saturday April19 
• Sunday April 20 
6:00 -ffiidnight (ND/SffiC onlyl) 
10:00 
a.m.-ffiidnight 

10:00 
a.m.-ffiidnight 

10:00 
a.m.-m 


• 

Thursday, April17, 1980 -page 8 
Editorials 
ERA unnecessary 
During the course of two recent pro-ERA presentations, opponents of the amendment have been characterized as "extremely reaction­ary, conservative, right-wing" myth-makers opposed to the fair treatment of wol,}1en. To set the record straight. ler me say that where unjustified sex discrimination exists, appropn­are steps should be taken to eradicate it. Not a_ll discrimination on the basis of sex, however, ts 
1 
invidious. Indeed, some such discrimination is j necessary and desirable for family and societal 01 der and stability. The major failing of the ERA Iis that ir would prohibit the state and federal 
governments from making any distinctions 
between rhe ~>exes. For that reason, it would be 
opposed. 
A large concern of many students attending 
the ERA meetings is the effect of ERA on. 
abortion laws and on a Human Life Amendment. 
Proponents of the a_mendment ~~uld !ike to 
view ERA and aboruon as two d1srmct 1ssues. Its 
opponents, however, wh!ch include such groups 
as rhe National Council of Catholic Women, the 
Knights of Columbus and the Catholic Daugh­
ters of America, believe that it must be viewed 
in light of the abortion issue. It is not absolutely 
clear that ERA will be interpreted as a 
legislative affirmation of the Supreme Court's 
abortion decisions and that it will strike down all 
laws regulating abortion. One of the ERA's 
weaknesses is that, due to its vague language, it 
is impossible to predict with certainty how the 
courts will construe the amendment With respect 
to many very important aspects of American life. 
But a number of the nation's foremost 
constitutional scholars agree with Senator Sam 
Ervin, Jr., who warned that the ERA is "the 
most destructive piece of legislation to ever pass 
Congress ... ERA would give every woman a 
constitutional right to have an abortion at will." 
ERA is designed w strike down any law that 
denies equality of rights on the basis of sex. 
Under the 1973 abortion decisions, abortion was 
viewed as a standard medical operation. By 
their nature, abortion laws deny this medical 
operation to womenonlvand, as a result, may be 
threatened by the ERA. Prof. Charles Rice of 
Notre Dame's Law School has susgested that the 
ERA would not allow any restricuons on abortion 
operations more stringent than those applied to 
any other 'kind of operation. 
There are those who say that ERA will have no effect on abortion laws since such laws necessarily apply only to women. It should be noted, however, that when Senator Ervin proposed that ERA be modified to permit legtslation recognizing "physiological or fun~­tional" differences between the sexes, h1s proposal was rejected. 
ERA proponents will also point our that the legislative history of the amendment includes a statement that its sponsors did not intend ERA to mandate abortion. Keep in mind, however, that the Supreme Court ordered busing to achieve racial integration of schools after the congress stared explicitly that such a measure was not tfl 1 taken. 
Statem from some of the most vocal proponents ~: rhe ERA will give us a clue as to how they would like to see the amendment interpreted. The National Organization of Women (NOW) is a fierce advocate of "repro­
ductive  freedom''  (  a  euphemism  which  
admittedly  encom~asses  abortion);  NOW's  
founder,  Betty  Fnedan,  when  asked  about  

abortion (the right to which is based on a Supreme Court decision) said, ''As for reliance on future Supreme Courts, that's· the reason we need the ERA." Dr. Thomas Emerson, Yale Law Professor and authorarive writer on ERA, has said that "Ratification of the ERA, while it would not atTect the abortion situation directly, would indirectly have an important effect In strengthening abortion rights for women". 
ERA is ar best ambiguou~ on the question of abortion. And abortion, with irs grave Iimplications for the unborn, the aged, the infirm ar.d unpopular, is nor an issue on which we can
iafford ambiguity. 
by Madonna J. Christensen 
An additional strike against ERA is rhar it is entirely unnecessary. Its supporters suggest that it is needed to eradicate discrimination against women in the employment and educa­tiaonal arenas. The truth is that discrimination in those fields is currently illegal under the equal protection clause of the Fourteenth AmenC:ment (which has been used to strike down sexually discriminatory laws), rhe Equal Pay Act of 1963, the Civil Rights Act of 1964, the Higher Education Act of 1972, the Equal Employment Opportunity Act of 1972 and scores of other federal laws and executive orders enacted in recent years. When one of the amendment's proponents was asked what it would give women that they do not already have, she replied, "Nothing. But it will give us a· psychological uplift." At the same rime, it is true that fhere are discriminatory federal and state laws currently in effect and that sex discrimination exists even in the areas covered by the legislation listed above; so does racial discrimination. No law enjoys perfect enforce­ment. The fact, however, that "Equal rights legislation'' has been and continues to be passed without the ERA indicates clearly that women's rights can be gained and unfair laws repealed in a much more reasonable way than by passage of a constitutionalamendmentwhich would have a devastating effect on American family and social life as we know it. 
ERA would invalidate statutes requiring men to support their wives (it has already had this effect in states with state ERAs) and would subject women to military duty and combat service on the same basis as men. It would invalidate protective labor legislation (passage ofwhich was urged by feminists ofearlier days). No less an authority than Prof. Paul Freund of Harvard Law School has indicated that there would be as much chance of maintaining separate.. restrooms for women and men under ERA as there would be of maintaining racially segre­gated restrooms. The law against homosexual marriages would probably go the same route as laws prohibiting miscegenation. 
A number of people have asked me why, 
even if the ERA is not technically necessary, 
women should be deprived of the "psycholo­
gical uplift'' of having the ERA to proclaim 
their equality under law in the way that 
minorities have the Fourteenth Amendment. 
First of all, women are not a minority; they 
make up at least one-half of this country's 
population. They can vote for representatives 
who will protect their interests. But, more 
importantly, thedifferencesbetween a man and 
a woman are very much greater and more 
fundamental than those between the races. 
The distinction between the sexes is not an 
"arbitrary" one. Rather, it has been noted that 
"Sexuality ... is one of the few matters truly of 
life and death to society''. 
Finally, Dr. Maureen Feedler strongly im­plied that the Catholic Church favors the ERA. Although the Church has taken no official position on the ERA, Pope Pius XI did speak clearly on the topic of the emancipation of women in his encyclical, Casti Connubii. The Pope granted that ''in all that pertains to the person and dignity of a human being'', there is to be true equality between men and women. However, he noted that total social, economic and physiological liberation of women will lead to the ''degradation of the spirit of woman and of the dignity of a mother; it is a· total perversion of family life.'' 
Unjust discrimination should be fought wherever it is found, but ERA is not the way. It is unnecessary, but more importantly, it is drastic and destructive. It should be opposed strongly -as citizens committed to the well-being of our country, we can do no less. 
Madonna Christensen is a secondyear law student at Notre Dame. 
GungaDan 
WASHINGTON have withheld writing this column until I was certain that Dan Rather was safely out of Af­ghanistan. Thank heavens he IS back in New York, shaved and well. 
For those of you who missed "60 Minutes" a week or so ago, Dan joined up with Af­ghan rebels, disguised as a mountain freedom fighter, and was filmed under fire from Russian artillery. 
Millions of us sat in the comfort of our living rooms watching this modern day "Lawrence of Arabia" risk his life to bring us the true story of what the rebels were facing in· this remote part of the world. "Gunga Dan," as the Wash­ington Post TV critic Tom Shales dubbed him, in the true foreign correspondent tradi­tion, knew this could have been his last story. 
Now that he is safely back home, I think some tough questions have to be asked of CBS management. What the devil were they thinking of when they permitted Walter Cronkite's successor to risk his neck in the Khyber Pass, only a few months before he will take over as anchorman of the evening news? 
When CBS declared that Dan would be the heir to the Cronkite throne we thought they would immediately throw a ring of Secret Servicemen around him, and make certain that no harm would come to him until the coronation. 
Rather, you would assume, was too valuable a property to be sent off to Afghamstan in disguise. It wasn't just a question of physi'-al harm be­falling him, but what would have happened if he had been captured by the Soviets? 
No major power can sit idly by if one of its anchormen is being held as a prisoner of war by the other side. The pres­sure on President Carter would have been great to do some­thing to free Dan, i11 time for the summer political conven­tions. 
Mr. Carter's options would be limited. Having used up his Moscow Olympic boycott once already, he might be forced by public opinion to threaten mili­tary action against the Soviets. Under international law, the holding of a CBS anchorman is the moral equivalent of war. 
Without being too harsh on the "60 Minutes" producers, they didn't have to send Dan Rather to Afghanistan. 
They could have sent Harry Reasoner, Morley Safer, Mike Wallace, Andy Rooney or even Roger Mudd. If anything happened to any of them, there would have been an uproar, but nothing that couldn't have 
been  handled  by  Cy  Vance  
sending  a  stiff  note  to  the  
Soviet Embassy.  

By dispatchmg Dan Rather into a war zone, CBS violated the first rule of television news which is, "an anchorman's 
--~ 
by Art Buchwald 
place is in the studio," just as, "the President's place is in the Rose Garden.'' I called the "60 Minutes" people for an explanation con­cerning their gaffe, they could come up 
with was, "We knew what we risking, bur the only one who could fit into the Afghan rebel robe and hat we rented Rather.'' 
Art Buchwald is a columnist who appears fre­quently in· The Observer.. 
Doone~ 
by Gary Trudeau 
THilT'S WHY I'M WNATIN6 ASliME a=MY /?OYAL.T!es 70 R.INO A Ff/li..-SCAI£ IN­
Vt5T!GATICW 70 RNO OUT 
IF f)(JKE MIGHT57lll.. 8C ALIVe. "­
NO KI/JlJIN6? THAT'S 8CAIJT­IFUL,MAN. 
I 


Editorial Board and Department Managers
==Ihe_Llbset:Ver====== 
Edi!Or·zn· Chief... . . Paul M ullanev S,\fC Ncu·s Edttor ........... Mary Leavitt 
"Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 A1anagmg Edit-•r . Mark Rust Sports Editor .. Beth Huffman 

The Observer is an independent newspaper published by the students of the Features Editor. . . . . . Kate FarrellEditonals Edttor. Mike Onufrak University of Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's Collese. It does nor necessanly Features Editor..... . .... Molly Woulfe
Senior Copy Editor . Lynne Dalev
reflect rhe policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reponed 
Photo Editor .................. John Macor
Neu·s Edilur.. . . Pam Degnan
as accurately and as objectively as possible. Editorials represent the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, opinions, and letters a't"e the vtews Neu·s Editor.. . Tom jackman Rusiness Manager ......... Greg Hedges of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community, and News Editor . . . Iohn .McGrath Advertrsing Manager .. Mike Holsinger the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged. SMC Executive Ed11or .. Margie Brassil Production Manager .... Ann Monaghan 
~ 

-
Features 
Thursday, April17, 1980 -page 9 . 
Welcome to the Club captures
marily concerned with g~tting larly of note is "I Wish I Was Your Hunter in some of his most sensitive stoned, getting money, or getting Mother," and "Irene Wilde," which and demonstrative moments. Burlaid, Hunter is more concerned with both express Hunter's need for there are flaws, as in any live album. 
giving a viewpoint from an artist's family strength and how this affects Some between-song passages arelonely conception. relationships with women. 
poorly edited and full of punchHunter can rock, to be sure, but The reproductions of the old outs-caps and sudden switches inthe lyrical subject matter in his classic Mott the Hoople songs feel sound. In addition, one derangedrougher songs far surpasses the fuller than their original counter­lass in the audience wails intermit­clanging noises of most American parts, with a heavier emphasis on tently in many of the songs-sheperformers. (Case in point: rhythym and bassline. "All the Way must have known it was a live album Nugent's "Wang-Dang-Sweet Poon­from Memphis," for example, is and wanted to get her obnoxioustang"). Not only can Hunter write. intensified by the addition of guitar A few cuts,
songs that say something interest­licks to the original piano scream on every track.
back­like "Cleveland Rocks" and "Walk­ing, but he performs them superbly ground rhythm . The rendition of Mountain" flat

in concert. While Nugent and Seger the eternal "All the Young Dudes" ing with a sound 
and listless. The highly rhythmicare content to wallow in repeated is more subtly sung-the offbeat "Bastard" is far superior to itsrock-n-roll-in-A riffs which burst the vocal inflections Hunter inserts seem simplistic studio version, but Huntereardrum and numb the brain, Hun­more realistic and understandable gives us too much of a good thingter mercifully varies his style, vol­with a live audience to receive them. 
and drags the ending through a long
ume, tone, and mood to provide the Ian Hunter plays for those whoWelcome to the Oub listener with several musical percep­like to use their mind and seek process to an amorphous-finish. 
Overall, however, Wdcome to thetions.
Ian Hunter solace in rock. The crashing riffs of Club is a superior rock recording.
All of this is captured well on an electric guitar best express the Hunter's performance and zeal for(Chrysalis) Hunter's new live album, Welcome frustrations 0f daily life; in this way, audiences has been increasing stead­Those who attended the Styx to the Club, a double set recorded on rock's expression of life's difficulties ily in the past year, as well as thehis last tour. Mick Ronson, former becomes an escape and as a result,concert last semester may recall Ian quality of his material. His nextguitarist for David Bowie, provides the problems of living seem smaller
Hunter, the hard-rocking British a monster
album will probably bealternatively searing leads, soft rhy­and more manageable. Huntersinger (formerly of Mott the Hoo­smash. If you want a preview of the ple), who opened the show. He thyms, and sentimental riffs on understands this, and uses his music next big rock album, give Welcome aelectric guitar and mandolin. The
mtroduced the Midwest to a style of as a vehicle of escape not from good, long listen. 
band is tight, and the re~;>roductions
rock intellectually deeper than : the reality, as Nugent does, but into usual drivel produced by boring, of the rougher matenal sounds reality, and simultaneously lifts rock­grittier than usual, but more emotive n-roll from the level of a numbing
back-to-the -oasics no-talents like as a result. The softer ballads, Tim Sullivan
Bob Seger and Ted Nugenr. While narcotic to a stimulating, healthy 
most American rock stars are pri-however, are far 
Particu~ exerctse. 
Tom Jackman 
The Beatles: Ten years and not forgotten 
Ten years ago this month, the trained George Martin , McCartney house rock" band, churning out Fleetwood Mac. Beatlesannounced to the world that had (and still has) a remarkable noisy, high energy music guaranteed 
S!!,t. Pepper's Lone(y_ Hearts
they were officially breaking up, knack for writing great melodies and to curve your spine and transform Club Band ' is a landmark byclose to fifteen years after the impeccable harmonies, and Lennon's your children mto raving drug anyone's standards-the first rocknucleus of the group had been Iynes improved at a tremendous fiends. 
formed in band as the "theme" album, structured like an
a known rate. This was probably what drew Spending a lot of time, money and elaborate symphony. It was the first Quarrymen. these two farther and farther apart, effort in the recording studios was time lyrics were printed on an albumFor the trivia buffs, today is the as Lennon wrote increasingly angry, stmply not done by pop groups in cover, and the elaborate cover itself,tenth anniversary of the release of outspoken songs like "Glass Onion" those days, as the Beatles first with its accompanying cardboadPaul McCartney's first (and so far and "Revolution," whil McCartney album, "Please Please Me," shows cut-outs, was also a first for a poponly) solo album, which is certainly continued to turn out melodically (it was recorded in 12 hours). Big album. Also included on the LP wasnot noteworthy as a musical accom­superb, but lyrically lacking, tunes companies like EMI-Parlophone (the what many consider their greatestplishment, but rather for the infam­like "Ob-La-Di, Ob-La-Da" and "I Beatles' company), Decca, RCA and song, "A Day in the Life," actually a ous "Interview" contained inside. In Will." In fact, the pair only rarely CBS just weren't willing to devore combination of separate, unfinishedthis pseudo-conversation, written by cowrote songs after the Help album, that much money to produce those songs by McCartney and Lennon.
McCartney and his Apple Press even though they were co-credited dreaded pop records. Bur once 
Office, Paul let it be known that his right to the end. groups like the Beatles showed how Opinion varies on the two, rem3:in­ties with the Beatles were shaky at Let us look at the importance of those records could sell, the studios ing years of the Fab Four s active 
best, and later in the month the extstence. They made two LSD-influ­
their innovations, an importance started to open up for non-classical 
band officially called it quits. or jazz acts. enced movies, put out two of their
which is hard for many of us w grasp best albums almost entirely without cooperation between themselves, and between the recording of the White Album and Abbey Road, they made their final musical statement­both on film and record, in Let it Be. 
"Get Back" was originally to be the title of the "Let it Be" projects, a title that would have been (and still is) appropriate in the face of the 
ever-~rowingpsychedelic, loud; acid rock-movement of the lat Sixties-a call for a return to basic rock 'n' roll. This was, I think, their final innova­tion, one which wouldn't be develop­ed further until about nine years later, in a form now know as New Wave. Included in this statement 
The Beatles paved the way for the were songs lik~ "One After 909," genre known as rock 'n' roll to enter since their breakthroughs are taken Once these opportunities were "Teddy Boy," both pre-1960 Me 
the consciousness of the record­for granted by people our age today. made available to the boys, they took Canney commpositions) and "Be­buying masses, homogenizing it into First ofall, as most everyone knows, full advantage. New instruments same Mucho." Unfortunately, Phil a form acceptable to those who they were the first British band to were introduced, overdubs became Spector got his mitts on these tapes, weren't ready for the blues (they still really break through here (though common, special effects were added. overproduced them with strings and aren't) or Chuck Berrv. Buddy Holly notthe first to try), and they opened The group stopped touring by 1966, choirs, and effectively wrecked this or Jerry Lee Lewis. the son~writing the gates for the flood of British not just because they were tired of effort. team of Lennon-McCartney tmprov­groups which would follow. Names living in fear of berserk teenage People will not forget the Beatles ed and amazed us, maturing before like the Rolling Stones, the Kinks, mobs (the film "Hard Day's Night" for a long time, but I feel that, on our eyes, writing innumberable the Cream, the Yardbirds, the Who was no exaggeration) but also be­this solemn occasion, what theysongs which still stand up excellen~ly and many others might be unfamiliar cause they couldn't reproduce their should be remembered for is already long after they were writre~. Desp!te to you now if not for the Beatles. studio sound. 
being · forg~tten. Ringo's musi­
the fact they had no m:ustcal tram­The Beatles were also the first to Examples of their many studio cal contributions have always beening, could not read muste, and v.:ere make an entire album of good innovations included Lennon's feed­minimal, Paul is now satisfied withnot extraordinary instrumentahsts, songs-the norm before then was to back intro to "I Feel Fine," Harri­producing pop fodder, and Georgeput one or two hits and fill out the "Norwegian Wood,"
they went from "Love Me Do" ~o son's sitar on showed us what he could do after the 
"Norwegian Wood" to "A Day tn rest with throwaways. The Beatles and the use of sax-like synthesizer breakup when he copped an oldthe Life'' in just five years, a truly wrote very few throwaways. ~ddi­sounds on "Got to Get You Into My Chiffons tune. ~ho knows what isphenomenal accomplishment. tionally, it's hard for us to beheve, Life." There are countless others, going on in John's head? MaybeEven though they were self­but even in their early days, the now practically old hat to today's they could still surprise us-theytaught! guided only by the classically Bearles were considered a "power-studio specialists like Pi~k Floyd and did in the Sixties. 
j 

t• n., .. , ••, 

. 

r-~-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
The Observer Thursday, April17, 1980 -page 10 
-
dub sport," explained Ste­[continued from page 12) status of other club sports at phens. ''But they haven't 
-
lacrosse spurs questions on the 
Notre Dame. pushed for elevation to the The Observer affiliation with eastern Catholic "It's a matter of how far you varsity level. They are happy in high schools where lacrosse is can go at one time. " said their own world. They are free 
big and players start as young Stephens. "We made women's spirited and like the flexibility SportsBoard as seventh grade.'' basketball Division I this year and freedom that comes with 
Beth Larocca, a senior, or­and hopefully we'll get around not being an intercollegiate ganized the women's volleyball to helping other sports. With team." group four years ago. Larocca, the elevation of !acrose we feel The advancement of lacrosse ­like O'Leary, thinks that her there is a adequate number of and women's volleyball to var­Tennis 
team could do well in the near men's varsity sports at this sity status, puts the raio of male future. time." athletes to female athletes at Notre Dame 7, Indiana 2
...Varsity 
about 9 to 1. That means that,''I'm ecstatic. I'm upset that Stephens also mentioned thflt according to the HEW's De­SinglesI won't be able to play, but so women's swimming and track, 

No. 1 -Carlton Harris (NO) del. Randy
excited for the others. We have as well as gymnastics and cember 4, 1979 intrepretation of 
Oruz 6-4, 6-4.
Title IX, for every moe scholar­

played well against teams in waterpolo, were clubs with No. 2 -Mark McMahon (N D) del. Jeff Division III in the past and varsity status in the future. The ships offered to men, one would True 4-6. 6-3. 7·6 (5-3). 
have to go to a woman. No. 3 -Mike Dickinson (IU) del. Herbshould have a good team. Lots associate athletic director does 
Hopwood 6-1. 6-2.
There are approximately 150

of girls didn't plar· because not foresee probtems with No.4-Mark Hoyer (NO) del. Jim Curran
grants-in-aid given to male

there was no forma organiza­some sports remaining at the 4·6, 6-1' 6-3. tion and we have gone without a club level -oddly enough, athletes at present. The univer­No.5-Tom Rogers (IU) def. Tom Hartzel coach. Not that we have organi­some would rather stay club sity will offer its first athletic 6-7 (4-5), 6-4, 6-4. 
No. 6 -Tom Robison (NO) del. Tom
zation we' II beat everyone." than go varsity. grants-in-aid to women begin­Lockhart 6-3, 6·1.
ning next year.

The change for volleyball and "Rugby is a very popular 
Molarity by Michael Molinelli 
I NEVER FOROIVE. YOU, CHrRYL. 11-IIS /.JitS 11/E.l.kRSr 

~HYLiFE~. J.10tJ 
CCXJLP YoU FiX H£ UP 





ACROSS 30 Record 41 Chairs 14 Creator 1 Resort player, 42 Understand of Hammer 4 School org. for short 43 Copier 15 Briny
The Daily Crossword 

7 French 31 Winged 44 Tourists' 20 Othello's 
commune 32 Letters for attraction hater 11 Retained the coroner on 19A ' 21 Fry in fat 13 "-and the 33 Give for 51 Slipped 24 "And-bit· 
Man" awhile 52 Sign gas ter tear" 15 Do a job 34 Exhibition 53 Others: Lat. 25 Photo 
on sheep of anger 54 Approaches solution 16 Jai-35 "To-not 55 Math subj. 26 Armada 17 Glean to..." 56 Lanky 27 That is 18 Contraction 36 Author of 57 James or 28 Secluded 19 Captain "The Old John spots 
Cook dis· Time 58 Pindaric 29 A Cooper 
covery Saloon" follower 30 Piece of 22 Dillon 37 -Forks, 59 Ottoman land 23 Reclined Montana Empire 31 Having 24 Cigar 38 Annoying ruler certain 26 Getting 39 Poi ingre· teeth 
poor grades dient DOWN 34 Shallow 1 Irani title place 2 Chinese wax 35 Fierce
Yesterday's Puzzle Solved: 
3 "Which is-fighter today is 37 Walks

GATEiBARCAifLAIW 
none to-38 Skin M I L E S 0 F T H E A D E D morrow" 40 Irritable PALAT I NEII!III!ILJ_ENS 
U R A L E L I A S R 0 M E 
4 Equality 41 Cadge -N 0 D E ~ T E A L ..... 5 Regale 43 Shun DAMONEII!!ITO~NICHE 
6 "Bear that 44 Repair walks 45 Region 

.;;. -"-.!,!.-:":­
L I LAC A I T •s TEAM like-" 46 Mountain
ov ERI"Ji. tiLl' 
~~ DIH 0 R N ~· E R L E 
7 Cowered in RussiaE N S U N I T E N L I S T 8 Harold of 47 Flying

lilli!IUII T A E s A L E E -· comics prefix
STOlC ABUTMENT 
9 Arrive 48 "When I " 
10 Scraps was-A L I E PIElA L E RUNS WI G S TIAfM ED K I C K 

H A' 0 I"'''"I"

u A 
12 -Head, 49 Long river
4/17/80
© 1980 by Chicago Trlbune-N.Y. News Synd. Inc. 

4/17/80 Oahu 50 Unctuous
All Rights Reserved 


Ohe WinJjammer 
HAIR STYLING FOR DISCRIMINATING MEN lo WOMEN 
1637 lincoln Woy W•st -South ll•nd, Indiana 46628 
232-6622 
$}00 OFF 

---on any style 
r men orwomen 

---ND/SMC ID required 
CALLTODAY q 
.. ~· 
I 

''··' 

Doubles No. 1 -Harris/Hopwood (NO) del. Druz/Curran 1·6, 6-3, 6·2. No. 2 -McMahan/Hoyer (NO) del. True/Ray Leonard 6·2, 6-3. No .. 3-Jim Falvey/Tim Noonan (N D) del. Dlckmson/Rogers 7-6 (5-4), 6·2. 
LaCrosse 
Michigan 7, Notre Dame 6 

Notre Dame scorers: 1st period: :25 Carl Lundblad unassist­
ed ' 3rd period: 4:15 Nick Gehring, assited to Lundlad, 6:00 Gehring, unasslted, 14:39 Lundblad, unassisted 4th period: 13:00 Mike Lynch, unassist­ed, 14:00 Danny Pace, assist to Gehring 
Saves: AI Pinado, Notre Dame, 12 
Bookstore 

U.S. over Munson and the Co-Pilots by 12 Humour at the ... over J. Wayne's Dead 
Ringers by 16 Descartes ... over Four Sacs ... by 9 Asphalt Five over Natural High by 13 Dribbling ... over Four Thinkers ... by 
9 
McNamara's Band over Runaway Infla­
tion by 9 The Boyz over Zeus ... by 5 Drewbies II over Who Are Those Guys? 
by 2 Elton Moore over Fort Dix by 15 Easy Living Paint's Final Coat over 
Basketcases by 7 Connor Real estate over Obiggons by 14 Nutmeggers over The Snow ... by 2 Clinton Core's ... over The Butcher 
Brothers by 6 Wrecking Crew over Five Guys by 9 Classified Nads over Vanilla Thunder by 
13 Much Later WEB over Chico Escuela by 
16 Dr. Dud ... over Graphis Five by 12 Band of Drunken ... over Mobius Band 
Digger and the Final Four over Kabul Raiders by 7 Strappamasquon . . . over Midnight 
Cruisers by 9 Mutants over 5·2 + 2% by 4 Gramps and Burners over Gooser Gang 
by 3 Yasslr Arafat over Send in the Clowns by 2 3-D-Clock Shooters over Walt Garrison .. by 13 Cowboy Spitler over Snow White Trash by 4 Stabbed in the Back over 0-C Gang by 
Forfeit Wiley Brown over Force Five by 2 (OT) Thunder Lizard over Alley ... by 11 
eball 
;, 

AMERICAN . ~ JUE 
Boston 10. r 9 Toronto 11. , .,ukee 2 Oakland 6, s" •tiP. 1 Baltimore 2. ,. ansas City 1 New York 6. "'; 1go o Texas 8, Clevelit,,d 7 California 2, Minnesota 1, 10 innings 
NATIONAL LEAGUE 
Cincinnati 5, San Francisco 3 Philadelphia 8, St. Louis 3 New York 3, Montreal 2 Los Angeles 10, San Diego 4 Chicago at Pittsburgh, ppd., cold 
Hockey 

NATIONAL HOCKEY LEAGUE 
Minnesota 3, Montreal 0 Buffalo 5, Chicago 0 New York Islanders 2, Boston 1 OT Philadelphia 2, New York Rangers 1 
All winners lead best-of-seven series 1-0 
• 
'l
~ 
I I 
The Observer 
Golfers take third place in tourney 
by Bill McCormick Sports Writer 

The Notre Dame golf team battled high winds, driving rain, sleet, and even a little snow Monday, en route to a third place finish in the Indian­apolis Invitational. The 36-hole event was the second contest of the season for the Irish as they continued their drive towards a possible NCAA tournament bid. 
While the thermometer was indicating sub 30-degree tem­peratures, Notre Dame was working on a team score of 748(375-373). Three strokes ahead of the Irish was Ball State (745), which captured second place with rounds of 368 and 377. · · 
Purdue shot an incredible score of 360 for the first 18 holes, added a round of 373, and walked away with the first place trophy at 733. Purdue freshman won the individual honors with rounds of 68-70 (138), excellent golf under any weather conditions. 
''In my four years of playing golf at Notre Dame, I have never played under worse con­ditions,'' commented senior John Lundgren. But, as Lund­gren's fine scores indicate, the weather didn't seem to have a real damaging effect on his game. John managed rounds of 75-72(147), good enough for sixth in the 90-man field. 
Junior Bill McGuinness grabbed seventh place overall with a score of 148(75-73), while fellow junior Tim Sa­check finished ninth with 149 (74-75). 
The other Notre Dame scores were Dave Knee 150(76-74), Tom McCarthy 156(77-79), and Stoney Ferlmann 156(75-81). 
The Irish must now look 
ahead to the weekend and 
possibly the most important 
tournament of the season, the 
Kepler Invitational in Colum­
bus, Ohio. 
This tournament is important for two reasons. First, the field in the 54-hole event will consist of teams from the Big Ten and Mid-American confer­ences, teams which Notre Dame must prove they can beat. The Kepler is also important because its site, the famed Scarlet Course, is the site of the NCAA tournament in May. And Notre Dame must demonstrate that they can do well on this treacherous layout. 

''A strong finish at the Kepler would really help us psycholo­gically,'' Lundgren emphasized. 
All else aside, it w~uld cer­tainly make a bid to the national tournament in May more realistic. 
Women's Bookstore 
Schedules for Women's Bookstore Basketball are available for pick up this evening from 7:30-9:30 p.m. in 334 Badin. The 32 team tournament will begin at 2 p.m. on Saturday. Any questions, call Ellen Dorney at 6987. 
Thursday, Apri117, 1980 -page 11 

,I ~ 
l I 
l 
• 

All classified ads must be received by 5:00p.m. , two days prior to the issue in which the ad is run. The Observer office will accept classifieds Monday through Friday, 10:00 a.m. to 5;00 p.m. All 
classifieds must be pre-paid, either in person or through the mail.
Classifieds 

PengUin, Deirdre , 
Is 2001 still playing in mid-May? Am I want you, I need you and I'm going to Lost: Timex gold face and trim watch I still welcome? Do you still like me? get you! with a brown wristband. Call 3234 ask Do you still remember me? Do you Secret Admirer-2
Notices 
For Sale: Smith Corona Electric Type­wrtier like new. Best offer. 2 Pioneer 

for Bob. exist? Do I exist? Do You? (Hehheh­
Deborah laugh( I love you-more stuck Volunteer Service applications avail­
Professionall yping. Reasonable ratP: Emil T. Hofman's chemsitry class car stereo speakers. $30 must sell. Call in Siberia able. SMC Student activities ollice. Mike 232-7759.
Experience typing thesis, journal art1· notebook found. Run up to the Deadline-April 21. cles. 291-0495. Observer office to identify. Hey "Punkin,"
For Sale-receiver 35 watts/channel You could make me become a Huck,

21/2 year warranty. Call Greg 3678.

Typing Plus. Term papers, theses, vegetarian. The convention was the bestl Too dissertations. Light editing, ghost A "sweet pea" lover bad you lost the map, but the great
For Rent

writing. Literary search, bibliogra­77 Camero. silver with black interior, breakfasts made up for that. The 
phies, genealogfes. Job resume ser­small V-8 engine, AM-FM cassette, Dan Hussey is so ugly that when he John sons sure were exciting,too! Rem­vice. Sliding rate scale based on lead airconditioning. $3000 or best offer. was born the doctor slapped his ember, 1always take the inside. A bird time. Special discounts on full contr­House for rent near Notre Dame. 2 Call Mickey at 7838. mother. Hussey for UMOC in the hand ...? I love you. acts tor theses and dissertations. 
bedrooms, alum. siding, garage. Ref­Gloria aardvark automatic solutions/p.o. box 
erences and security deposit. Call DO YOU REMEMBER THE 60's? 1204 46624/phonw ')219) 289-6753. 233-9088. If you do, and even if you've only read Lynn, Vicki, Usa, MH, Aphrodite,
Personals 

about it, come to the Beaux Arts Ball Mitch, Cinder, ML, Bud, Hop, Peter, Typing done in my home. University Rooms-now and/or Summer. $40 and relive Woodstock. April 19th at Frank, Davy, Tom, Flo, Skuds, Lizann, Park area. 277-3085. month. 233-1329. Superh~ro Worshippers: today's your 9:30 in the Arkie Bldg. All are invited. Anita, Colleen Annie, Sally, Tammy, Ellen Jennifer and Mom:
chance to winess 6'7" unbiiterman in Attention Long lslanders:There will be Need male students (preferably) to action 5:30p.m. bookstore courts. App,lications for Homecoming chair­Thank you for making my 20th aday 
an important meeting for the Long share three bedroom house, newly man, NAZZ business manager, and to remember. You're the best. My only Island Club on Mon., Apr. 21 at 7 p.m. remod~ed, all new carpet and partially Wanted: a large rebounder in case Lou Nazz Director are available in the regret is that the Gipper didn't put in in tile Little Theatre of Lafortune-Eiec­furnished. Near NO. Call 289-7269 Pagley can't play Bookstore. Contact Student Union office. an appearance.
after 5 p.m. Love, Liz
tions will be held. P.F. and the Flyers. 
TONIGHT! Professional Typing Service. Any size House for rent Sept. 3, bedrooms, Jody DeG raf--we knew you could do it! Neil Simon's Blue Mantle applications-Student act­
job, accurate, prompt, dependable. garage, air conditioning. Near NO. "Murder by Death" ivities oflice-SM C Deadline date-April
Knock 'em dead on Friday!!

Term papers, Reports, Manuscripts. $200 includes everything. 233-1329. Third McCandless, Bonnie and the EG auditorium, Times: 7, 9, 11 21. BARRON SERVICES 1408 Elwood, triple [in absenta] Starring: Peter Sellers, Peter Falk, 
South Bend 289-7949. Off Campus Housing 6 bedrooms (with David Niven, Truman Capote and Madeline-locks) rented separately. Free laundry Your birthday was the best! 1can't
Mi Miga, more! 
and kitchen. Superior rated. Available wait for your next one.
Happy 20th birthday! Good luck Fir.

for summer and fall. 291-1405. Love ya, Bart
nite, but I now you'll be great!! Dom Yocious, Dom Yocious, Com
Lost&Found 
Love, Yocious-where art thou Dom Yocious? 
For rent: staying in South Bend for Tim Salzler­
Y-Jur Ky. cutie

summer? 4-bedroom house for rent. The Boston Club of ND-SMC presents: Boy were you a sloddy tool SaturdayFound: one small bn•v,~ puppy, ~~­Close to campus. Call Joe 8822 or Greg Boston Red Sox vs. Chicago While night! Keep up the good work. Thursday. Call George 3054 or Bm· 8823. 
Sox. Baseball game on Mon. April 28. A fellow Slod 3057. Dear Lookout Mntn Folks: Cost is $15 [includes ticket, beer and Mr. Davis: I like your !-shirts bus] Tickets are limited-1st come, 1st To the other 4 members of our team,
Lost: Blue Alpine backpack with Mrs. Davis: !look looked great 
serve. Non-members are also invited. Marty, Bill, Steve and MB
Wanted

important notebookds and texts. Lost Greg: "On the Radio" is interesting Call Jim Giblin at 1528 for more info. Thanks--I had a lot of fun, even before break. Reward! Call 3324. Kathy: Thanx for coloring eggs though I did blow my one chance .. Urgent: wanted-one bassist and one Harald: smart dog; won't eat grits Get your computerized biorhythm $1 .maybe we better stick to the offcourt 
Lost: one gold wedding band with lead vocalist, male or female, for rock Thanx ya' 11-California Kid -Lafortune Center MWF 1-3 p.m. antics.
inscription, date of Oct. 2, 1869. Lost band (Stones, Zep, Rush, Beatles). To Anne near LeMans. For Reward call Teresa start immediately call Dan or Jack at Welcome back the acoustic guitar of 
Friday is the last day to order color 

at 4432 (SMC). 1766. Now!!! Rich Prezioso and Kevin Quigley to shots of this year's basketball action. TOM AND KEVIN(of the Cheapest Lafortune Ballroom Saturday the 19th 
Call 8932 for details. Gigilos--)
Math 125 Calculus book, green chemi­$$$$$Substantial part time income 9:30-1 a.m. BE THERE!! Sorry I missed the game and sorry stry notebook, green calculus notebook taking short phone messages at home. you lost, did ya get the game on 111m?
Charles "Hollywood" Dyer for UMOC

and yellow eng. probability notebook. Call (615) 779-3235 ext. 547-n. Whoelse?
Chucky is Yucky.

Lost on Apri114, 1980 in North Dining hall, B line. Females to share local house for this Rememoer-every Flyer has his day. 
Attention freshman and sophomores. Lord FC\ther, summer. Erin 6967. Pursue a certificat program in social Delian should always be bold faced. 
Lost: set of pictures from wallet-please LaFortuen lunchtime concert, Fri. And it's always the Delian.
Work while you earn your degree. For 

return. Randy 1735. Attention: anyone interested in living [18th]11:45-1 featuring Rich Prezioso the Great Oracle of the Delian
additional information, contact: Char­

in South Bend for the summer and and Kevin Quigley. 
les Martucci, 131 Madeleva Hall, Saint
Found: set of computer cards-on the wants to live in a house, I need two 

Mary's College, phone 284-4755. MikeL. (Troll),
lawn in front of O'Shag. Claim at housemates. House is on Eddy St. Call Peace, love and Beaux Arts Ball. Don't even try it againllObserver office. John at 6760. The DGT's
Get your computerized biorhythm $1
Do you think NO is a bore? Do you 
Lafortune Center MWF 1-3 p.m.

Lost: HP-25 March 10-14 in Engineer­Need ride to Davenport, Iowa April thind N D parties are the worst? Well­RJ$ing Bldg. Please return to lost and 18th. Call JK Julien at 1771. no morel The party to end all parties is You know you're getting old when
Penguin,

found or Dean's office. this Sat. night at the 621 Napoleon I hope I can make up for all the you have to wear socks on the beach I 1 need 1 measley graduation tix. mansion. Don't miss Ryan's never 
disappointments I've caused you-Love, Diane 
Found: a calculator in rm 303 in Desperate!! Mick 8212 $$$$$$. tee-totaling punch. Will the hosts be someday I will. Promise! Love P.S. Happy Birthdaylengineering bldg. Call 4286 to iden­"out of it?" Will the hostesses know Stuck in Siberia
tify. Overseas jobs-Summer/year round. where they are? There's only one way Bet you forgot about K U LP!!! Nope-­
PS-Thanks eternal lor the call last

Europe, S. America, Australia, Asia, to find out-so be there! KULP KULP KULP KULP KULP
nile! (contact from the outside world­
Lost: one 14 k. gold braided chain etc. All fields, $500-$1200 monthly. 
yeah!

bracelet. If found please call 7812. Expenses paid. Sightseeing. Free Hey world, I'm in Jove with M.P.W. HAPPY 21st birthday Bob Gerth!!! information write IJC Box 52-14 Cor­(alias L.M.L.) Happy Thursday from 
Deirdre's Sectre Admirer-You've goLost-Canon EX-Auto Camera in room 

on~ floJ Mar, Cal 92625. Rome with Love. Love that body! Muffy,
competition. Bug Out!!
209 of Business Administration Build­

Love you always, You're the best
Secret Admirer-2ing. Phone 3106 or 1715, REWARD. 

M.P.W.L Signed Now are you turning red? MARY LEPENA The Gobe
For Sale 

Lost: room and mail keys for rm. 420 SOME HOW Carroll (N D). If found, call Peter at VOTE WOOLHEAD!!BHOC SOME WAY
ror sa1e: Alvarez 6 string acoustic

6829. SOME DAY
guitar. Call 6369 mornings. 


~vorts 
Varsity status granted to lacrosse, volleyball 
by Beth Huffman Sports Editor 

Title IX, a controversial crea­tion of the HEW office calling for more equality between men and women's sports is again altering the structure of athle­tics at Notre Dame. Earlier in the year an announcement was made lifting women's basket­ball from Division III of the AlA W to Division I while reducing the number of hockey grants-in-aid by two. A sta~te­ment to be released by Univer­sity information services will disclose the elevation of Iacross and women's volleyball to the varsity level for the 1980-81 academic year. 
''This is part of Title IX and our efforts to give womet:l-more opportunities," said Colonel John Stephens, associate ath­letic director for Notre Dame. "We have been evaluating the volleyball program for some time and we fdt it was the appropriate time to give them varsity status. ''Lacrosse has, for years, been one of the clubs that men really do well in. They have done an excellent job of administrating themselves. It's a good healthy program and Rich O'Leary has done a ~ood job ot coaching them. Wuh all that in mind. we decided it was also that sport's 
time.'' 
Lacrosse has been a club sport at Notre Dame since 1964 and thegroup's present leader, Rich O'Leary, has been directing the program since 1971. The club won its lt>ague, the University division of the Midwest Club Lacrosse Association, last year, and is experiencing another sucessful season thts spring. The Lacrosse Club has peti­tioned for varsity status three times and in the past recieved only "maybe" answers. 
''The decision really sur­prised me," said O'Leary. "In September they (th~ Admini­stration) dido' t say no, they just said they dido't want to make any decisions as of yet.'' 
O'Leary feels that the ad­vancement into the Midwest Lacrosse Association, a league of varsity teams, will not be too difficult a problem for the club. The coach does think his team, whtch numbers 52 this spring, will need an adjustment period. 
''Until we get more players with experience it will be difficult to compete with schools that have been compe­ting for awhile,'' explained O'Leary. "Within three of four years we could easily have the best team in the midwest just because our name will attract players and we have a strong 
(continued on page 10] 

Thursday, April17, 1980 -page 12 

Butcher Brothers upset in Bookstore 
by Frank LaGrotta Sports Writer 

Some long games, some not-so-long games, lots of sun­shine and one major upset treated the crowds who came out to see the action as Bookstore IX, Round II con­tinued yesterday afternoon. 
The upset mvolved the Butcher Brothers and Clinton 
.lrish take tUJofront St. Joseph's 
by Tim Pn:Ster Sports Wn"ter 

On every winning ballclub, a mixt 1re of youth and experi­encet' veterans are essential to a suc.-essful program. The Notre Dame baseball team used tlwt combination yester­day afteruo')n, as the steady play of sophomore second baseman 0 u ~k Tasch and the clutch hirri.1g of four-year lenerman &.nd team captain Dan Voellinget helped pace to the Irish to &. doubleheader sweep over :>t.. oseph's. 
In the first Gar: 1e, Tasch's bases-loaded smgle to center in the second inning ar.d a rwo-out double in the stxth accounted for three runs a~ the Irish defeated the St. Jos,·p'"t Pumas 5-l. 
The nightcap wa-; highiighted by a bases-loaded triJ.;le by Voellinger in a fi,..e.run ~ixth inning, lifting the Iri~ h to a 7-5 victorJ and a lJ-4 overall recor . 
Bob Bartlett (2-t) was credited with the v. ~tory in game one and senior T;mmy Handrich tossed rwo im ir ~s of hitless ball to earn his fir._t -;;ave of the year. 
Bartlett, who was botLe; ed lY control problems, gave w1y to relief fitcher Tom Conroy hl the top o the fifth after walh'lg the first rwo batters and surrendering a run scorin~. single. Conroy promptly struck 
out the next batter to retire the side. 
Handrich replaced Conroy in the sixth and proceeded to induce the Puma batsmen into hitting weak taps for the 

remaining rwo innings. 
see 
'' 
commented pitching coach Larry Gallo. "He did exactly what a relief pitcher is supposed to do, keep the ball low and throw strikes." In addition to Tasch's hot bat, left fielder George lams and shortstop Dave Bratish each slashed a pair of hits. Henry Valenzuela doubled while Greg Rodems and Mike Jamieson each singled in a run during a four-run second inning. 
In the second game, the Irish offensive attack finally exploded in the sixth inning wi_th the help of some defensive mtscues. 
"We showed excellent use of our offensive skills," remarked head coach Tom Kelly. "Our patience at the plate payed off, especially in the second game.'' 
The Irish, trailing 5-2 heading into the bottom of the sixth, scored five unearned runs to complete anothercome­from-behind victory. 
"We were also losing to Wisconsin and Illinois Tech but refused to quit," said Voellinger, who ripped a belt high fastball to right center dnving in the winning runs. 

Although surrendering a three-run homer to St. Joe third baseman Bob Ellis and a sixth inning solo shot to Neil Brown, Irish hurler Mike Kenahan went the distance, striking out five and raising his record to 3-0. 
"Mike has really been a clutch .performer for us this year," said Voellinger. "He's been a relief pitcher most of his career 
and he's done a super job filling in as a fifth starter." 
Voellinger also commented on the clutch play of Tasch. ''Chuck has really been a pleasant surprise for us this spring. We were uncertain who would be handling second base, but Chuck has responded beautifully, not only offensively, but defensively as well." 
ND netters upset Hoosiers 
by Michael Ortman Associate Sports Editor 
The Notre Dame tennis team not only survived the toughest test it has encountered since its current 11-match winning :nreak began some five weeks ago; the Irish feasted on the highly touted Indiana Hoosiers and recorded a stunning 7-2 upset win yesterday afternoon at the Courtney Tennis Center. 
''That was the biggest win of my tennis career," smiled en­thusiastic senior captain Carl­ton Harris as he limped off the, court. "There's no doubt about it. We've never beaten Indiana in my four years here. That just gave it that extra special something.'' 

Harris' straight set win over Indiana's Randy Druz in the number one singles match was a Herculean feat indeed In the final set of his win over Purdue's Bro Ballentine on Tuesday, Harris suffered a painful groin pull which ham· pered him throughout the Indi­ana match. "IfDruz had gotten me running around,'' explain­
[continued on page 7] 

Core's Cagers in a game that was scheduled to begin behind the bookstore at 6:15 . When the starting time came, the Butchers were without three of their players who were detained by a late football practice. 
Rather than recruit three substitutes, Butcher players Kevin Hart and Mtke Langnecker decided to begin the game five-on-two. However, that strategy quickly proved ineffective as the Butchers fell begin 4-0 early in the game. Doug Filo came off the sidelines to join Hart and Langnecker when, just seconds later, Dean Masztak, John Scully, and Dave Mitchell arrived at the court. 
Because Filo had already played, Mitchell was forced to watch the game from the side­lines. What he saw was an upset of major proportions as the Butchers, a top-seeded team in this year's tourney, dropped a 21-15 decision to Clinton Core's Cagers. 
The winners were paced by Tom Cushing (9-of-12) and Bob Burner (5 of 13) while the Butchers relied on the shooting of Masztak (7-of-15) to keep the game close. 
In other action, the Nutmeggers defeated The Show That Never Ends, 21-19. Phil Pozderac paced the winners with 12 points and 13 rebounds while teammate Jeff Crippen, had five points and 11 boards. Mark Spitler and Skip Livingston each had six for the losers. 
In an exciting north quad game, Boyz came from behind o defeat Zeu and the Cloud­Gatherer, 21-16. The winners were led by Kiki Aguila (9-of­
17) while Zues relied on the deft ball-handling of Stacy Russo and Jeff Kolbus' five points on eight attempts. Russo added four buckets for the losers. 
In a game that took only 18 minutes, Much Later W.E.B. defeated Chico Escuela, 21-5. Kevin Dix and Andy Hicks each had five points on the winners 
.[continued on page 4] 

Gridders practice ...finally 
by Craig Chval Sports Wn"ter 
Notre Dame's 1980 football squad, working out on Cartier Field 
for the first time since Saturday, enjoyed yet another excellent 
workout Wednesday ... assistant coach Gene Smith summed 
things up by saying "We didn't expect it to turn out as well since 
we hadn't been out since Saturday." ... Smith added that the 
cancellations caused by bad weather (four in nine days) aren't 
interfering too much wtth the coaching staff's plans ... "We've 
been a better football team after each practtce." ... if he's 
getting those kind ofresults, head coach Dan Devine may want to 
practice all summer in preparation for the murderous 1980 
schedule. 
Junior Phil Pozderac, expected to fill one of the two offensive 
tackle spots vacated by graduating seniors Tim Foley and Rob 
Martinovich, was in pads for the first time this spring yesterday . 
.. Pozderac, a 6-8 behemoth, has been sidelined with a neck 
injury suffered while working out on the weight machines . . . 
he's still not at full speed, however. 
While the competition at quarterback may draw the most 
attention this spring, Devine and his staff also have the 
unenviable task of selecting an heir-ap_parant to record-breaking 
placekicker Chuck Male . . . the leadmg candidate is starting 
strong safety Steve Cichy, who is being held out of contacct this 
spring as a precaution after he suffered back and elbow injuries 
in '79 ... Cichy, an honorable mention All-American in the 
defensive backfield last fall, has been able to work on his kicking 
though ... his kickoffs and conversions are better than adequate, 
and his field goals are improving ... Cichy handled the ktckoff 
duties in the '79 Cotton Bowl when Male was injured ... 
walk-on Mike Johnston and junior Harry Oliver are also in the 
line for the job. 




