---~~-­
~-----­
I I I 

f\jDfamily life -Page 8 
THURSDAY, MARCH 20, 1980
VOL. XlV, NO. 110 an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and saint mary's 
Lewis accuses Registrar 
ofhampering vote drive 
Laura Lan'more Senior StaffReporter 

As the May 6 Indiana primary nears, County Registrar Coreen 
Wroblewski continues to make student voter registration as 
"difficult as possible," according to Paul Lewis, executive 
coordinator and head of the campus voter registration drive. At 
present, the effort has signed approximately IJO voters of an 
initial goal of 2500. 
After requesting 30 authorized deputy registers and 1500 
registration forms, the Notre Dame group received 4 deputies 
an~ 10~ forms. This. sho~age has. ~eriously hampered 
regtstrauon efforts, Lewts satd . .An addiuonal problem 1s the 
Registrar's stipulation that to obtain one other form, one must 
be turned in. 
"We wanted to blitz the campus, in the dorms and dinin~ 
halls," Lewis explained. "But these problems have made It 
virtually impractical. Ifwe started in the dining hall at 5:00 we'd 
have to stop at 5: 15 when we ran out of forms," he continued. 
The registration drive began last Wednesday on the campus. 
The group has worked one day in the dinin~ hall, Lewis said. 
Lewis stressed that a student can temporarily resign his home 
state registration in order to register in Indiana. ''He could 
reregister at home this summer, in time for the Novemnber 
election,'' he said. 
Lewis cited evidence from Wroblewski that other minority 
groups in South Bend are more fairly treated. The black 
community has 27 deputies and the League of Women Voters 
was alloted 400 registration forms, he reported. 
Wroblewski justified the discrepancy with several reasons. 
The printer of the forms failed to meet the requisition by the 
county, she told Lewis. 
As a second reason, the Registrar challenged student 
residency. "Why does she allow any student registration at all if 
she believes it's illegal?" Lewis responded. According to 
Richard L. Hill, City Attorney, Notre Dame residents do meet 
residency requirements. 
Wroblewski also maintained her office is understaffed. The 
student group is trying to be as helpful as possible with 
registration procedures, Lewis defended. 
[continued on page 6] 



McCambridge attacks alcohol abuses 
byEariRix 
Academy award winning ac­. tress and confessed alcoholic Mercedes McCambridge chal­lenged a small but entranced audience in an emotional attack on contemporary attitudes con­cerning alcohol and alcohol abuse last night in the library 
auditorium. 
McCambridge blasted those 
who tolerate alcohol abuse in 
their families and among their 
friends. "Nobody becomes an 
alcoholic without the consent of 
the family or the employer. To 
the degree that you tolerate 
intolerable behavior, you are 
responsible for it.'' 
She defined alcoholism as a 
disease and cited medical re­
search supporting biochemical 
predisposttton to alcoholism. "I 
personally believe that it is 
largely inherited,'' McCam­
bridge said. 
A girl in the audience did not 
initially accept the concept of 
biological causation and des­
cribed a friend who ''drinks too 
much because she is lonely.'' 
''What is important is why you drink and what it does to you,'' McCambridge responded. An alcoholic is a person who drinks against his or her best in­terest." To a shocked audience, McCambridge said that the girl who drank to relieve her loneli­ness was indeed an alcoholic. She then accused the audience of "doing a dance around the word 'alcoholic.' It makes us think about how far we have gone in reducing the stigma,'' she said. The questioner was speechless. 
In criticizing the stigma at­tached to alcoholism, McCam­bridge described the acknow­ledgement of her alcoholism before the Senate in an attemtp to call attention to the disease as' 'the roughest morning ofmy life. My disease is as legal as diabetes, under the law. Alco­holism is the only disease where the victim is held re­sponsible if the treatment fails. You will feel sorry for the diabetic and you will throw the alcoholic in the drunk tank,'' she charged. 
"We are eminently salvagea­ble, and well worth the while," McCambridge said about alco­holics. She challenged the au­dience to confront ,their alcoholic friend and to "love that person enou~h to have him hate you for a whtle.'' 
In response to a comment that most people only drink to get comfortable, McCambridge emphasized that "alcoholics start drinking for the same reasons everyone else does. It made me comfortable for a while -it is making you comfor-

The world's smc~llest massage parlor :was recently erected in the construction· area behind Niewlan!d Science Hall. [Photo by Tom jackman]. 
table for a while, but one out of tiona! Council on Alcoholism eight of you is on your way to and is currently president of the hell!'' Livengrin Foundation Inc., a 
At the conclusion of her pre­highly successful alcoholism sentation, McCambridge re­treatment society, in addition to ceived a standing ovation from her many other contributions the crowd. In addition to her and citations for her work on accomplishment on broadway, alcohol abuse. The lecture was film, radio, and television, Mc­co-sponsored by student go­Cambridge was formerly the vermnent, the student umon honorary chairman of the Na-and psychological services. 
House works on balanced budget 
WASHINGTON (AP)-The House Budget Committee got ·to work yesterday on a 1981 federal budget· proposal that includes a $1.4 billion surplus and tax reductions opposed by the Carter Administration at this stage of the war on 
inflation. 
Rep. Robert N. Giaimo, D­Conn., chairman of the House budget panel, presented the proposal with a declaration that rising inflation "makes a bal­anced budget imperative." 
Giaimo's proposal, which will serve as the framework for House budget action, calls for $15.9 billion in new spending cuts, including an end to Saturday mail deliveries and the state share of federal re­vepue sharing. 
In an inflation-fighting move last Friday, President Carter announced a revised version of his spending plan for fiscal year 1981. He called for S13 billion in spending cuts to balance the budget, including a $1.7 billion reduction in the general reve­nue-sharing program that would eliminate aid to states.. 
Administration officials said 
the president has yet to make 
final decisions on most of the 
cuts. 
Meanwhile, House Speaker Thomas P. O'Neill, D-Mass., and about a dozen Democratic members of the House Appro­priations Committee met Wed­nesday with Carter to discuss the processing of his spending plan. 
The committee chairman, Rep. Jamie I. Whitten, D-Miss. later told reporters the group urged the president to set broad spendin~ targets and permit appropnations subcommittees to decide the details. 
Asked whether Carter had ~greed, Whitten said, "You 
[continued on page 6] 

Talks with' Carter 
B~gin, Sailat to visit Washington 
WASHINGTON (AP)-Prime Minister Menache:m Begin of Israel and President Anwar Sadat of Egypt will visit Wash­ington for separate talks with President Carter in April, White House officials announc­ed yesterday. 
White House press secretary J ody Powell, announcing the new move in the b6gged-down talks over Palestinian autono­my, said the dates for the meetings had not been set. 
Powell said the Israeli and Egyptian leaders would visit Washington "to review the 
progress and pace of autonomy negotiations for the West Bank and Gaza." 
''The negotiations are being conducted in accordance with the principles of the Camp David accord," which the three leaders signed in September 1978, Powell said. 
The agreements reached be­tween the United States, Israel and Egypt provided for negotia­tions to settle the question of Palestinian autonomy on the West Bank of the Jordan River and the Gaza Strip, Arab terri­tories occupied by Israel follow­ing the 1967 Middle East war. 
Israel, Egypt and the United States have agreed to accele­rate the pace of the negotiations on self-rule for the 1.2 million Palestinians or the occupied doubtful agreement will be reached by the May 26 deadline 
spelled out in the Camp David accords. 
Begin said Tuesday the talks were stalled on three Egyptian demands -that Jerusalem A­rabs participate 10 Palestinian elections, that the Palestinaia:n government include legislative as well as executive powers, and that Israeli security ar­rangements be a subject for dgreement by the Palestinians. 
In 1978, Carter closeted the two Mideast leaders at Camp David for 13 days until they agreed on two framework a­greements that were honed in~ 
west Bank of the Jordan River ' the formal peace treaty SIX and Gaza Strip. But it appears l months later. 
.. 
I' 


> ·~ 
-~--~ -------~------------------'--'---'---­


















·News in brief 
Thursday, March 20, 1980-page 2 
Assailant seriously wounds 
Right to Life stresses education 
former Evansville mayor 
by Tim Vercellotti paign one step further by Willke, who are leaders in the presenting a program entitled fight for a human life amend­EVANSVIllE Ind. (AP)-Former ~ayor Russell G. Lloyd,, a One of the main objectives of "A Seminar of Abortion" last ment.
47-year-old attorney and father of SlX, was gunned do~n ~n the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's night in Walsh Hall. The seminar treated two ques­the living room of his home yesterday and doctors said his Right to Life group is the Mary Anne Hughes, the co­tions, one dealing with thechances of survival were ''very minimal.'' A 36-year-old education of students on the ordinator of the group, narrated point at which life begins, the woman seen driving away from the house in a pickup truck abortion issue. This pro-life a slide presentation based on other concerning the protection was arrested about an hour later. 
organization carried its cam-the work of Dr. and Mrs. Jack of human life. Hughes discussed the deve­lopment of the fetus, mention­
. . . 
ing the existence of bodily functions such as breathing and 


Sculptor demonstrates mettle 
Rogers to emphasize values 
swallowing at eleven weeks



infirst -ever bronzedelephant 
after conception, the presence of an audible heartbeat at eight

ofpoetry in talk tonight 
weeks, and the fact that brain trying to make art history as the first to cast a live elephant in OL PEJTH RANCH, Kenya (AP)-New York sculptor Mihail, waves can be measured as earlyProfessor Stephan Rogers in comparative literature. He as six weeks into the pregnan­bronze, found a big bull in the bush yesterday, had drugged will discuss the question ''What has authored a book, Classical cy. Hughes stated that anand made a mold from life as the sedated fachyderm lay amid if Education Were Like Poe­Greece and Thft, Poetry of embryo is human at eventhorn trees on this game preserve. "It s easy. I feel very 
try?" tonight at 8 in the library Chenier, Shelley and LeoparJi an 
earlier stage. "I conclude thatrelaxed," the sculptor said as he stood on the elephant's ear 

lounge. which appeared in 1974. He life begins at fertilization,''during the two-hour moldmaking process, after which the Rogers is a graduate of Notre has ·written numerous articles Hughes said.
groggy animal wandered back into the wilderness. It was one Dame's Great Books pros.ram, encompassing such topics as As part of the program,of Kenya's most bizarre wildlife expeditions, but one the the General Program of Liberal myth, . literature and liberalsculptor hopes will serve a good cause. 
Hughes challenged some of the

Studies in which he currently educatton. 
commonly held ideas concern­holds a professorship. He did Recently, Rogers has been ing abortion. Hughes said thathis graduate study as a Dan­engaged in experimental teach­the question of viability, theforth fellow at Harvard Univer­ing and research along with child's ability to live outside the 



Weather 
sity from which he took a Ph.D. Professor Esmee Bellalta of womb, was an improper basisNotre Dame's Department of for deciding the humanity of aArchitecture to provide newPartly cloudy throughout morning, with low of 41. Rain likely fetus. She explained that ad­design criteria for the specialto d~velo,pe later today, high in the mid-fifties. Chance of vances in technology in the field Observer pedagogical needs of the blind.
preCipitation ten percent in the morning, 60 percent in the of premature births are contin­In his February lecture on evenmg. 
ually pushing back the time of"Poetry and the Kinds of

announces viability.
Truth,'' Rogers rejected the Hughes also pointed out thatpositions of those who empha­
• size that poetry ''corrupts the the abortiQO conflict is not

promott-ons 
rooted only.-in religious beliefs; 

spirit" and "perverts the 
it is also a scientific andmind'' or that poetry, at best, is 





CamP-_us_------~ 
Several Observer Production mere biological issue. 
decoration or entertain­
Department promotions were Another argument that
ment.
officially announced last night Hughes addressed was the
"If poetry is a way to the12 noon LUNCH "justice in the classroom," university by Pwduction Manager ] ohn possession of truth, and if the question of whether or not a committee for education for justice, LIBRARY LOUNGE. 
McGrath. fetus is conscious of itself.
possession of truth is know­Teri Michielutti, Ryan Ver ledge, then poetry is a way of Hughes asked the audience to 1-3 p.m. EXHIBITION 'ceramics," patricia brophy, ISIS 
Berkmoes, and Steve Swonk consider the fact that comatose
knowing," he said. "It followsGAllERY. 
were promoted to the position people may not be aware of
that poets and teachers of this
of Night Editor. themselves, yet they are not put
art have a place at the modern3 p.m. MEETING, "open alcohol anonymous meeting," 
Michielutti, a sophomore ele­to death.
university, though, the investi­alcohol education councll,smc, SMC CLUBHOUSE. 
mentary education major at Unwanted children were also
gators of knowledge have shift­
Saint Mary's is from Saint Clair brought into question. "Must
ed their attention away from4:15p.m. MEETING school of irish studies program, 207 
Shores, MI. Ver Berkmoes, a this be restricted to babies?''
those fields of the imaginativeO'SHAUGHNESSY HALL. 
Notre Dame sophomore, is a 
reason where the Psalmist was 
native of Aptos, CA. Swonk, a (continued on page 6]
the voice of God, and Homer4:30 p.m. BIOLOGY DEPT. SEMINAR "freshwater 
Notre Dame sophomore from 
was the educator of Hellas.''
protozoan communities-random aggregations of species or 
Dunnsville, Va, plans to major
structured systems?" dr. john cairns, jr., virginia polytech­in Economics.
nic inst. and state university, GA,LVIN AUDITORIUM. 
All three had previously serv­

APPLY FOR
ed as Assistant Night Editors. 
6:30p.m, MEETING, "leadership training class," campus crusade for christ, LEWIS HALL REC ROOM. 

SMCSTUDENT 
~The Observer_
6:30 p.m. SOFTBALL MEETING, "women's softball 


GOVERNMENT
meeting," general meeting for those women who want to 
Night Editor: Steve "Hello
play fastpitch softball, LITTLE THEATRE, LAFORTUNE. 
Early Times" Swonk 
·MARCH 17· ~~-COMMISSIONER 
Asst. Night Editor: Deirdre
7, 9, 11 p.m. FILM, "monty python and the holy grail," 
MARCH24
"Ad Astra" Murphy, Eddie
sponsored by the water polo club, ENGINEERING "Dr. Death" Holden 


(noon) APPLICATIONS AVAILABLE
AUDITORIUM admission: $1. 
Copy Editor: Kate Casey 


ACTIVITIES OFFICE
Layout Staff: Mary ''So I .
7, 9 p.m. FILM, "movies on islamic religion," CARROLL Ain't" SilviHALL, SMC. 
News Editor: Mark Rust Features Layout: Sal Gr.mata 
7 p.m. MEETING, "officer's elections," nd historical 
Sports Layout: Mark Perry 
society, RM. 118 O'SHAG. 

MASS
Typists: Beth Huffman, Mi­
chelle Kelleher, Nancy Rus­
7:30p.m. ] APANESE FILM SERIES, "hara-kiri," depts. 
sell 
follow-ed by
of speech, drama, and modern and classical languages, 
EMT: Paul ''The Real
WASHINGTON HALL. 
Thumbs" Selavko 

supper
Proofreader: Bruce Oakley
7:30p.m. LECTURE, "italian drawings in the collection of 
ND Day Editor: Mary ''Can I
janos scholz: a survey," dr. joseph rushton, ART 

every_
Leave Now? LeavittGALLERY. 
SMC Day Editor: Cece Be­
FRIDAY
liles8 p.m. LECTURE, "what if education were like poetry?," 
AdDesign: Bob Rudy, Molly 
prof. stephan rogers, MEMORIAL LIBRARY LOUNGE. 
O'Neill 
at the 
Photographer: Tomjac~an
8 p.m. MASTER LECTURE SERIES, "mental structure in past and present perceptual theory," dr. julian hochberg, Tht Obnrvtr [USPS B 12111 Is
2 
publislltd Monday tllraugll Frtdly a­
capt during wm 11111 VICitilll..-..
8 p.m. LECTURE, "alcohol use and abuse," theresa kline, 
The Ob5erver Is publilllld br 1111 director alcohol council of south bend and dr. robert nelson, 
students of Nlllrt D11111 IIIII Sllnt SMC CLUBHOUSE. 
Ml~llllgt. Sublcriptila lillY Ill pu ror sa per Ylll' 11• per1411M11MI frem The Observer. 1'.0. 1111
9-12 p.m. CONCERT, "nazz open stage," sign in at 9 p.m. 
Q, Nitti b11111, llldla111 4lilil. s-ci NAZZ. 
cllll IIOStltl Plld, Nllrt D11111, ln­
dillll .4&151. The Observer It 1 1111111111r If till
10 p.m. MEETING, "floc support group meeting," floc 
~ted "-· AH ,......... 
supporters at nd, LAFORTUNE BALLROOM. 
rigtlb lrt ....... 




-•• .,._,, ......... '· .... a..~ ........ . 

The Observer Thursday, March 20, 1980 -page 3 
Professors comment on recent primarylosses 
by Michael Mader StaffReporter  killed in New York,'' Arnold foresees. Arnold sees the Je­wish vote as volatile and says  
Although Ted Kennedy and George Bush will continue with their presidential campaigns after heavy losses in the Illinois primary Tuesday, the two can­didates have little chance of winning their respective party's conventions, two government professors said yesterday.  t~at Kennedy might swin~ it to hts advantage, but "he 1s not going to win," Arnold said. The string of Carter victories has different meanings to the professors. "If there 1s one main factor to be singled out, it is that the Democrats don't like Kennedy," Roos stated. Arnold agrees that "Kennedy is a bad  
candidate for the moment," but  
maintains  that Carter's  victo­ 
'It looks like  ries say nothing about Demo­crats. With his overwhelming  
Kennedy's dead.'  victories, Carter appears to be a candidate of strength. "His  
·•It  looks  like  Kennedy's  strength is just a mirage. His victories over Kennedy are like beating up a scarecrow," Ar­ Pat Navin ofthe Notre Dame Tax Assitance Center aids a South Bend resident yesterday afternoon on the first floor ofLaFortune. [Photo by Tom jackman]. ~  

dead,'' said Peri Arnold, asso­nold said. ciate professor of government. 
''It obviously hurts his cam­paign," commented]ohn Roos, also an associate professor in Nuclear casualty the department. 
"Bush's chances are now 300 to 1. He will fade out,'' Roos observed about the campaign of 
TMImay n.ot reopen.
the former CIA director. "Bush is dead. It is hard to prepare a for it to be decommissioned.'' 
J:Iarrisburg, PA (AP) -It's 

case that he is not," Arnold Parente said the unit, known
ltkely the Three Mile Island

echoed. "Bush will continue. as TMI-2, might be able to
nuclear plant may nevet' re­

He is a very tenacious, unem­resume operations if "every­
open because of mounting

ployed polincian, '' Arnold add­thing broke right'' and there
expenses and public pressure

ed. were no regulatory delays, but
an electrical engineer told th~

Ronald Reagan's twelve point he said that possibility is
Public Utility Commission 

win over John Anderson, how­"totally unlikely." 
yesterday. 

ever, is seen as damaging but He is similarly pesstmtsnc
Dr. Robert Parente is a 

not as an end to Anderson's about the reopening of TMI-1,
consultant with Theodore Barry 

campaign hopes. The loss in an undamage reactor that has
and Associates, which the PUC 

Illinois means that Anderson been idle since the accident
hired to do a 10 month audit

''simply goes from a 50-1 shot pending federal safety
of General Public Utilities.

to a 70-1 shot," Roos wagered, 
GPU owns the Three Mile

while adding, "Reagan be­
Island nuclear plant, site of the 

comes an almost overwhelming 
nation's worst commercial

favorite to win the Republican 
nuclear power accident last

nomination.'' 
March.

A large amount of Anderson's 
Parente said GPU has under­

vote was attributed to crossover 
estimated the cost of cleaning

voting by Democrats and Inde­
up the reactor damaged last

pendents. "The Illinois defeat 
March. He said it could cost

reminds us that he is potent, 
well over $1 billion to clean up

but does not have much clout 
and restore the crippled unit. 

within the Republican party,'' Arnold said. Arnold emphasiz­He emphasized that no one ed that Illinois should not be has been inside the reactor considered Anderson's home building yet so it's been state, or one which he should imposstble to assess the have won. Anderson is not well damage. known outside of his district in ''Within the limitations of Illinois, according to Arnold. that," he said, "in my view the However, Arnold expressed most likely outcome is for it surprise that Anderson did not never to return to service but win and in fact lost by twelve points. 
With the decline of Anderson, Bush, and Kennedy, the Presi­dential race seems to be point­
ing to a Reagan-Carter match­McGarrell up. Both Roos and Arnold said Carter has a better chance in such a matchup. "Carter has the least chance of losing," 
to display

Roos said, while explaining that neither candidate will enjoy much popularity. "It will be an apathetic election, with voters artwork not being permanently satisfied with thetr choices," Roos pre­
dicted. ] ames McGarrell, an Indiana "I'd say that without the University art professor and economy as an issue, Carter is a one of the nation's foremost shoo-in," Arnold said. He cau­fisurative painters, will display tioned, however, that "the shdes and discuss his work 
economy is a wild-card. If it tonight at 8 in the Little Theater 
blows up, any Republican could of LaFortune. get elected.'' The economy McGarrell has been selected could make "a scenario which by fellow American artists to makes Reagan strong and Car­represent the U.S. at Dokemen­
ter very weak.'' ta III, an international art show The two government profes­planned this summer at Castle, sors think that Kennedy will not Germany. His works are on fare well in the New York display at the Whitney Muse­primary, which takes place next um, Museum of Modern Art 
week. ''The Illinois loss hurts and other noted galleries of the his chances," Roos comment­world. ed. Roos said that the lawma­Tonight's appearance by the kers in the state will be more Indianapolis native is sponsor­supportive of Carter, mainly ed by the Art Department and because it will be to their is open to the public. A 
advantage to support the ap­reception in the Isis Gallery will parent winner. ''He will get follow the presentation. 
,1· 1\J'( 
: ~' ( I I. ' -. : ) ~ • . ; 



THUBSDAY MABCH20 
7pmto Bam 









MOLSOli 
golden ale 
7&• 

Open Mon.-Fri. Bto6 
Sat. Bto 1 


t 
,1 


' 
~~---------------­
The Observer Thursday, March 20, 1980 -page 4 

Reformed alcoholic actress "!ferce_des Mc~ambridge_ en_ter­tained the audience last mght tn the bbraryaudttonum. [Photo by Tom jackman). 

COME GET GROSSI 

UD VOLLEYBALL REGISTRATION 
Sun. 23rd from 1-3 

LAFORTUNE BALLROOM 

-rosters should include players and captians name and phone fREE at least 6 . no more than 8 on a team 
. 
-may be on only one team 
COME EARLY LIMITED REGISTRAliON 
questions call3l74 
r-..__._ announcingstudent ticke-
Iotteryfor 

john denver 
concert in the round 
•

appeanng saturday, april 26th 
lottery will be held 
sun.mar.23rd 8:00pm Iafortune ballroom limit 10 tickets per ID 


Soviet music grows soft 
The stirring songs that once 
glorified the toil. of Soviet 
workers -a sort of music-to­
build-locomotives-by -are 
being pushed aside by new 
sounds of soft rock and pop. 
The new tunes mark a swing 
in musical tastes that has some 
ideological officials worried. A 
~eneration ago, famous patriot­
Ic melodies blared out with 
bugles, drums and massed 
choirs were leading instru­
ments of Soviet propaganda for 
the masses. 
The strident ''Son~ of the 
Motherland,'' the tnumphant 
"Boldly Forward, Comrades" 
and a host of others boomed 
from factory loudspeakers. 
They typified the Soviet 
Union's early dears and the 
battles of Worl War II. 
The old songs have held on 
to some popularity and are still 
regulars on radio and tele­
vision. But new composers are 
steadily cutting away at the 
brass band tradition, writing 
instead gently lyrical songs, 
even for patriotic themes. 
And many new songs have 
nothing ideological about them 
at all. 
The national trade union 
paper, Trud, complained in a 
recent editorial that the national 
song repertoire has turned 
increasingly to "songs of love, 
modern versions of gypsy 
romances and light western 
tunes." 
The top songs in Moscow at 
the moment include "Summer 
Night," a soft rock love song; 
the lyrical ''Looking for you,'' 
on a similar theme by top 
Soviet singer Alia Pugacheva, 
and "Summer Rains," a love 
song by Mark Minkov. 
Miss Pugachev' s lusty 
singing covers a variety of 
themes, from love to the 
problems of women in modern 
society to the effect of stardom 
on her own life. 
Revivals of traditional 
Russian folk songs are popular, 
too, as well as rock and pop 
from East European countires. 
Authorities seem to have made 
their peace with rock as a 
genre, including Western 
tunes, which regularly turn up 
on state radio. 
But authorities still call for 
more songs on ''worthy'' and 
"significant" themes. 
One modern pop groul? that 
has received offical pratse is 
the group Pesnyari, one of 
whose members, Leonid 
Borrkevi.ch, is married to 
former Soviet gymnastics star 
Olga Korbut. 
The group has a lyrical song 
extolling the western Soviet 
republic of Byelorussia among 
its hits. 
Another patnottc number, the rock song "My Address is the Soviet Union" by the group Samotsvety, is a dancing hit at Soviet youth cafes. 
The Moscow Summer OlymJ?ics, too, have found their way toto pop music. One contemporary composer in good standing is David Tukmanov, who has a hit called "Olympiad-80." It includes the line, "Welcome to the Moscow Olympics, welcome to Beautiful Moscow.'' 
Despite such songs, Trud complained that many other composers do nothin~ to bring listeners a Commumst spirit, ''not to mention any cultivation of high aesthetic tastes." 
The same issues came up last Novemeber at a nationwide conference of the Union of Composers. A Moscow composer, Eduard Kolmanovsk 
... 

said songs with "deep, signif­icant themes were being forced into the background by light, Western-style tunes. 
Tikhon Khrennikov, the long time chief of the Composers Union, added that"ideological opponents'' of the Soviet Union were trying to make the work of a. ".sensation-loving" Soviet mustctans appear to be a new wave in all Soviet music. 
Young Soviet musicians are full of experiments with advanced jazz, electronic music and new forms of rock. But patriotic music in the very oldest Soviet style -that of the 1920s and 1930s -is still being composed. 
"Day of Victory," a sttrnng song about World War II, composed in 1975 and recorded in a rich baritone with orchestra accompaniment, has become a modern day classic. 
The  old  favorites  are  an  
inseparable  part  of  Soviet  
history.  

One of the most famous, the 1936, "Song of the Mother­land" with music by the late Issak Dunaevsky, includes such lines as "From Moscow clear across the nation, from the southern mountains to the northern sea, a citizen can stride like the owner of his great unlimited country.'' 
Soviet music is still supposed to serve the state and the Communist Party. But its tone is softer now than the blaring hymns to socialism of the past. 
Leboyer method of childbirth reduces labor 
BOSTON (AP) -One method of childbirth tries to soften the shock of entering the world by delivering babies in a hushed, darkened room and bathing them gently in warm water. But a study shows those children are no happier or healthier then those born by more convention­al means. 
The Leboyer approach to childbirth has been adopted by many hospitals since it was proposed five years ago by Dr. Frederick Leboyer in his book "Birth Without Violence." 
The new study, conducted at McMaster University Medical Centre in Hamilton, Ontario, compared 28 infants delivered by the Leboyer method with 26 who began life with "~entle but conventional" delivenes. 
After eight months, there was no difference between the two groups of children, the resear­chers reported. 
The study was directed by Nancy M. Nelson, an epidemio­logist, and was /ubhshed in Thursday's issue of the New England Journal of Medicine. 
The Leboyer babies were de­livered in a hushed labor room lit only by a single gooseneck lamp. 
They were then placed on their mothers' abdomens and gently massaged. Instead of cutting their umbilical cords at once, doctors left the babies attached to their mothers for three minutes. Then their fathers placed them in warm baths. 
''Birth is a tidal wave of sensation, surl?assing anything we can imagme,'' Leboyer wrote in his book. He theorized a gentle transition from the womb to the world would produce healthier babies. 
The Canadian doctors com­pared the health, irritability and responsiveness of the two groups of babies during the first hour of life. Then they repeated the exams after a day, three days and eight months. At the same time, they ques­tioned the mothers about their experiences. 
"Our results suggest that the Leboyer procedure has no ad­vantage over a gentle, conven­tional delivery in influencing infant and maternal out­comes," they concluded. 
The Canadian doctors noted some obstetricians do not want to use the Leboyer method because they object to ''deliver­ing in the dark, delaying the cutting of the cord and bathing the baby." But they said their 
, ,.. ',' 

study shows the procedure does 
not in,crease the risk for either 
the mother or the baby. 
The ;Study also found women who delivered by the Leboyer method spent less time in labor. For the Leboyer women, the first stage of labor -the time from the first contraction until the cervix is fully dilated ­lasted an average of seven hours. It was twice as long for the women who gave conven­tional births, but the doctors attributed this difference to psychological factors. 
The researchers reported the Leboyer method for many wo­men raised "the expectation of a later positive experience,'' making it apparent to the doctors that ''psycholo~ical fac­tors influence the phystcal pro­gress of labor.'' 
Isis shows sculpture exhibition 
The Isis Gallery is currently showing an exhibition of cera­mic sculpture by Patricia Bro­phy. 
Brofhy graduated from the Schoo of Art in Cork City, Ireland, and subsequently dtd some graduate work at the Academie St. Joost, Breda, The Netherlands. 
The exhibit, which includes examples of high fired, ralcu, smoke fired and salt ~lazed stoneware and J?<>rcelam, is open every day thts week from 1-3 p.m. 

Meeting for Irish Studies runs today 
A meeting for sophomores interested in the English Ik­partment' s program at the School of Irish Studies in Dublin will be held today at 4:15 p.m. in room 207 O'Shaughnessy Hall. 
' . 
. ·• , .. •" 1 ,.. 0'" • ."~ 1' I" 1.1....1. 1-tT'.....I'ro":"tTt...-ly-lrfrf '"l>'ll" tl f'l t11' tj' 1' 'J' ~~ ,1'"' f'" • ._ f' 1' • 
--------------~-­
The Observer Thursday, March 20, 1980-pa~ 5 
After 3years in office 

Cat·ter fails to halt inflation 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Since taking office in 1977, President Carter has thrown everything but a balanced budget, waj~e and price controls and t 1e kitchen sink at inflation -all without success. 
Now he is trying a balanced budget, which leaves wa&e and price controls and the kttchen sink in reserve. He has said he will not use controls. 
The latest C!rter anti-infla­tion program, announced last Friday, is the fourth in the past three years. Although Carter has said each program should help, inflation has progres­sively worsened. 
As measured by the Con­sumer Price Index, inflation was 4.8 percent in 1976, th:: year before Carter took office. It was 13.3 percent last year, and prices have increased at an annual rate of 18 percent so fa:r in 1980. · 
Here's a look at how Carter has tried to cope with inflation since he has been in office and the results: 
1976 Campaign 
-During the campaign, Car­ter said Congress should ap­prove standby authority for the president to impose wage and price controls. He also advo­cated requiring big businesses and labor to notify the ~overn­ment in advance of pnce and wage increases. However, he dropped both of these ideas soon after taking office. With inflation at 4.8 percent, he said 
~~~~;!!e~~.rity would be fuJI 
jan. 31, 1977 
-Carter proposed a $31 bil­
lion economic stimulus pro­gram that included major tax reductions and a $50 ta:x rebate for Americans--aimed at re­ducin& unemployment--whilo:: commuting himself to a ba­lanced 1981 budget to help control inflation. "This adnu­nistration will never let ilts guard down against inflation, which robs us all," he said. His goal was to reduce inflation to below 4 percent within two years. 
April 15, 1977 
-Inflation was worsening and Carter announced his first anti-inflation program that included a labor-business team to <:O· operate in restraining inflation, plus a hospital cost contain­ment program and pledged anew to balance the 1981 budget. At the same time, he scrapped his ta:x rebate plan as "a mtstake." Inflation was in the 5 percent "to 6 percent range. Carter's new goal was to reduce inflation to 4 percent by the end of 1979. 
jan. 20, 1978 
-Inflation was 6.8 percent in 1977, and Carter announced his second anti-inflation pro­gram that called on business and labor to accept price and wage increases "significantly less" than the average of the past two years. Inflation and unemployment need to be bat-tied "simultaneously," Carter said. He abandoned his ba­lanced budget tar~et for 1981. He forecast a 6.1 mflation rate for 1978. 
Apri/11, 1978 
-In another inflation speech, Carter repeated his call for business and labor to restrain wages and prices, proposed a 
5.5 percent cap on pay hikes for government whtte-collar workers, and named Robert Strauss as his special anti-in­flation adviser. He again ruled ployment as a solution to rising prices. Inflation appeared headed for 7 percent for the year. 
Oct. 24, 1978 
-Carter unveiled his third program, including voluntary wage and {>rice guidelines and a wage msurance plan to insure workers against losses from inflation in return for their cooperation. He hoped to reduce inflation to between 6 percent and 6. 5 percent in 1969, down from an expected 8 
percent in  1978.  He  named  
Alfred  Kahn  to  succeed  
Strauss.  
Nov. 1, 1978  

-Worried about the effect of inflation on the dollar, the administration and the Federal Reserve Board announced a dollar-support operation that included a major increase in interest rates. It appeared the board would spearhead the struggle against inflation by pushing interest rates to record heights. jan. 23, 1979 
-Inflation was 9 percent in 1978, and Carter called in his State of the Union address for redoubled efforts, although he said "It is a myth that we must choose endlessly between infla­tion and recession." However, he said the unemployment rate then about 5.8 percent, proba­bly was too low for a successful struggle against inflation. 

Sept. 28, 1979 
-Carter announced an accord with the AFL-CIO to involve organized labor with his anti­inflation effort. A ~overnment pay advisory councd ~.vith busi­ness and labor participation was established. 
Oct. 9, 1979 
-Carter vowed to support new moves by the Federal Reserve Board to increase in­terest rates. He said he would do "whatever it takes" to control inflation. 
jan. 28, 1980 
·Inflation hit 13. 3 ~>ercent in 1979 and the admmistration forecast 10.4 percent in 1980. Carter unveiled his 1981 bud­get, containing a deficit of $15.8 billion, but said it "en­sures that the federal budget will not be an inflationary force in the economy." For the first time, a presidential budget officially predicted a recession. 
March 15, 1980 
-In an unprecedemed rever­sal, Carter scrapped his J anu­ary budget and said he is developing a new one that provides a budget surplus of as much as $13 billion for 1981. He imposed controls on credit and a fee on imported oil that will raise the pnce of gasoline by 10 cents per gallion. The administration now says infla­tion wiU be just under 12 percent in 1980. A recession is stiU in the forecast. 
Reagan 's successes combine 
• 
th


CQflSefVatl.ves' 0 ef gfOU_.·ps 
NEW YORK (AP) -Ronald Reagan has swept to victory in the Republican primaries by putting the votes of moderates, Independents and middle­income voters together with his hardcore support among the conservative GOP rank-and­file, Associated Press-NBC news polls say. 
Neither Rep. John Anderson nor George Bush has been able to build sufficient support a­mong those groups that hold the key to any possible GOP victory in the general election to defeat Reagan consistently. 
Among the Democrats, the polls say Sen. Edward M. Kennedy is right that President Carter's policies are not getting the endorsement of the voters in the primaries. But while the voters may not agree with Carter's policies, they are clearly rejecting Kennedy in favor of the incumbent . 
In 111inois, the core of Reagan's support came from conservatives, who gave 66 percent of their ballots to the former California Governor, the AP-NBC News Poll of GOP voters on Tuesday found. That was about the same level of support Reagan got from conservatives in earlier pri­maries, according to earlier AP-NBC News voter polls. 
But Reagan added the votes of others to that core. 
In Illinois, he took 41 percent of the moderate votes, while Anderson got 45 percent. 
Only in Massachusetts, where Reagan was a close third to Anderson and Bush, did his support among this group dip below the Il1inois level. He got only 19 percent of the moderate vote in the Bay State. 
Reagan has also managed to blunt Anderson's drive for the votes of independent voters, out of ten Americans. In many cases, they can vote in partisan primaries. 

Anderson aimed to build large margins among independents to offset Reagan's edge among conser­vatives. 
But in Illinois, Reagan took 40 percent of the independent vote, while Anderson took 47 percent. Bush got only 9 percent. 
That's about as well as Reagan did among indepen­dents in New Hampshire and not quite as well as he did in three Southern primaries. Again, only in Massachusetts did Reagan do poorly among independents, gettin:8' only 19 percent of their vote to 46 percent for Anderson and 26 percent for Bush. 
Middle-income voters are critical to any general election campaign. And Reagan has been doing very well amon~ that group in the GOP pn­maries. ' 
Reagan got the support of 51 percent of those with incomes from $15,000 to $35,000 a year in Illinois, while Anderson got 36 percent of their votes. Bush got 10 percent. 

1ustice i1'fl. Classroo1m' runstodtly 
The University for Education for Justice will sponsor "Jus­tice in the Classroom" today at 12 noon in the library lounge. Anyone interested is invited to attend, and is advised to bring a 
out C(i)Illirols..~.h~ ~~~. ·.Y.th~.~9;\'lf; .. P,l~Ji~.~.P,.,.q!;j!~l,Y,..f\Y-~rc·J?f.~~?.;~~g.-~~n.cp.
-· ·-· · 

Deidre Dalton [left] and Kathleen Tyrell perform a Carly 
·Simon tune during last night's Coffeehouse, sponsored by the Alcohol Education Counczl of SMC and held in Regina Hall. [Photo by Tom jackman]. 

-The Observer_· 
Night Editors &Photographers: 
Mandatory Quick Meeting SundayNight 7:30,·p.m. 
Bob Bernoskie and Fr. Marceau, 
MANYTHANKS FOR A FANTASTIC EVENING! from, .vour grateful,well fed friends at the Observer. 
OPEN SUNDAYS 4 ro JOpm 
~----------------,


1$2.00 OFF I 
I On Any 14" Pizza 1 
I Coupon Good Thru April1.1980 I 
L_____i ___________
Limit I Coupon Per Pizza 1 
~-'!.~~-.!:.~~t"-\.~i 


!$1.00 OFF I 
1 On Any 10:: Pizza 1 
L 
1 Coupon Good Thru Apnl1. 1980 I Ltmtt 1 Coupon per p•zza • 
.-;:zi~~~ii'a~~ 
. , .lI 
Mon. thru Thurs. 11 1.111. tt 11 :30 p.111. t:'-G · . 1 Fri.' Sat. 11 a.m. to 12:30 p.m. t;~. :

~m

713 E. dtfforstn, So. Bond ,, _____, .. -~·"':'-'\ 
3724 Grape Rolli , · • 





-· 'ili!llf"'···-·
Mishawaka-5tt21£. • 1 _ -~ ~:: • ... 
' 

. . . , . , , . .. L.I..'LLL. •• l.ll-L~!.-~.I~i·• 
''' 
• I'' I l · ':I.;.;'


'•''id''
' _'___}'__1 . :-• . ~ .
't 

The Observer Thursday, March 20, 1980-page 6 
'Disturbingpriceincreases' 
Carter requests price reports 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The Carter administration'slanti-in-~ flation agency announced Tuesday1 it is asking special price reports from ,250 busi­nesses, mcluding oil compan­ies, "because of disturbing price increases" in recent months. 
The government announced separately that Americans' personal income increased in February by only $6.9 billion, or 0.3 percent, the smallest amount in more than four years. 
Consumer spending also slowed sharply during the month, an indication that con­sumers may be reaching the limit of their purchasin~ power in the face of high inflauon and a sluggish economic growth. 
In tts announcement, . the Council on Wage and Price Stability said it is seeking 
APPLICATIONS 
other businesses, including those in air transportation, paper, cement, hotels, food processing, retailing and mach­mery. 
A spokesman, Mike Gelb, said there have been "disturb­ing price increases" in these industries as reflected in the government's index of whole­sale prices. The special price reports will help the council determine whether the in­creases havebeenin violationof the administration's voluntary 
. price guideline. Inflation worsened sharply in recent months, with consumer prices rising an annual rate of 18 percent and wholesale prices up at a 20 percent rate. The administration's latest inflation forecast for 1980 is an overall increase in consumer · 

NOWAVAILABLEFOR: 

STUDENTGOVT. CABINET POSITIONS 
Pick up applications from S.G. Secretary,
•, 
2nd floor ofLa Fortune 
Applications due by thurs. march 27th 

special price information from prices of about 12 percent, and 150 oil companies and 100 that presupposes a substantial 

Mary Anne Hughes conducts an Abortion Seminar last night in the basement of Walsh Hall. See story, page 2. [Photo by Tom jackman]. 
...Registrar 

easing of inflation after mid­
year. 
The price information the council is requesting is for the' three-month period ending in January. It said the informa­tion is due in 10 days. 
While the council said it is requesting information from the 250 companies, which it did not name, it said it is ordering price reports from some petro­leum companies that failed to comply with previous requests. It dtd not name these com-, 
panies, either. 
The council has authority to require price information, by court subpoena if necessary, but lacks authority to order price changes even where it considers prices to be unjusti­fied. 
The council also announced that it is requiring all compan­ies with annual sales in excess of $100 million to file regular price reports by May 15, a total of 2,500 companies. 
President Carter announced on Friday that as part of the administration's stepped-up effort to control inflauon, the council will extend its price monitoring to companies with sales in excess of $100 million companies. 
Previously, only companies with sales of at least $250 million had been required to file regular price reports. 
Meanwhile, the effort by the government to slow the econ­omy through higher interest . rates was reflected in a slow­down in consumer spending activity in February, Commerce Department figures showed. 
. . . Life 

[continued from page 2J 
Hughes asked. She pointed out that iflack of love was the case, then the elderly may also be in danger. 
During the program, as pic­tures of babies in various stages ofdevel.opment were flashed on the screen, Hughes continually challenged the audience to ask themselves "Is this a human life?" 
Hughes called the question of protection of unborn children a civil rights issue. She described abortion as "the big killing the small," and "the strong killin2 the weak.'' As a result o1 abortion, according to Hughes, 
1.4 million babies died in 1978, more than the total U.S. casual­ties for the Civil War, the two World Wars, and the conflict in Korea and Vietnam combined. 
Hughes ended the presenta­tion by saying that more educa­tion is needed on the subject of abonion before people can make decisions concerning the issue. She also pointed out that a human life amend,...ent is possible, but she , •.:d the road to such a law "a long, hard struggle." 
Abortionseminar 
[continued from page 1] 
The last date of deputized registration is Friday, after which students will have to go downtown to the city Icounty building. "If necessary, we wtll sponsor some sort of mass transporta­tion early next week," Lewis stated. 
In a related area, off-campus students are eligible to vote in city elections, unlike on-campus residents who ·may only vote in county and state contests. 
''With a population of over 2000 undergraduate and graduate students, the off-campus students could have a substantial impact in a city _el~ction," said Shannon Neville, outgoing off-campus commtsstoner. 
Mark Kelley, the new OC commisioner concurred with Neville. He said he believed a drive for voter registration off-campus would be successful. 
I ''Ifwe could get 2000 people to vote, we could raise the level of citizenry in student netghborhoods," Kelley commented. He said he hoped the students would be less apathetic about a city election than they are about student elections. "We wouldn't be just students, we would be city residents," he added. Kelley also said that tentative plans to go into the predominantly student apartment complexes, such as the Notre Dame and Campus Views Apartments to register voters were being discussed. Any student wishing to register may contact Paul Lewis, Sean Hefferman, or _!Jreg Anselmi, authorized deputies . 




, , , Budget 

'(continuedfrom pagelJ 
don't ask for flat committment 
from the president." 
Meanwhile, Senate Demo­cratic Leader Robert C. Byrd urged Carter to submit his proposed list of cuts without further delay. The Senate Budget Committee is expected to begin work on its spending plan before the end of the month. 
The process of arriving at a fmal budget has been compli­cated this year. After Janu­ary' s inflation rate was pegged at an 18 percent annual rate, Carter repudiated his original spending plan, which called for a $15.8 billion deficit, and said he would submit a balanced budget--the first for the federal government in 12 years. 
There were more signs of a worsening economic J;>icture yesterday. Despite soarmg oil mdustry profits, the overall performance ofU.S. businesses weakened in the last quarter of 1979 and analysts say the pattern will connnue. 
At a news conference yester­day, Giaimo said his budget plan, which includes $15.9 bil­lion in new spending cuts, represents "some painful choices (that) will require sacri­fice from millions ofAmericans. But there is no painless way to balance the budget." 


Editorial Board and Department Managers 
Editor-in-chief.........Rosemary Mills Sports·~.J·c:.utlor..•••....•....••••Mark Perry . Managing EJitor ..........Diane Wilson Features Editor .....Kathleen Connelly 
Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46JJ6 the Editorial Board. Commentaries, Editorial Editor..............Ann Gates Photo &Jitor ..............Doug Christian opinions and letters are the views of Senior Copy Editor .........M. Onufrak 
The ObseT'fler is an independent their authors. Column space is avail­Exec11tive News EJitor......Mike Lewis Business Ma.ager........Steve Odlafl4 newspaper published by the Students able to all members of the community, News Editor....................Mark Rust Prod11ctio11 Ma1111ger.....)ohn McGrath ofthe University ofNotte Dame du lac and the free expression of varying News EJitor.................Mike Shields AJvertisi•g ~~Wger.....M. Holsinger and Saint Mary's Collqe. It does not opinions on campus, through letters, is SMC News Editor........Margie Brassil Co•troller..................Kevin Manion t~Y rdlect the policies of the encouraged. Circ~M!Mager......Greg Hedges 
----.~~~--~----------------------~------------------------~..--~--~~--~~~~--~~----------~--------­
~.·:. 


Features 
Thursday, March 20 , 1980 -page 7 
MusicvijeUJs
********************* 

Mad love 
linda Ronstadt 
(Asylum) 
Don't expect any more soft country­rock albums from the alluring chan­
! tress, Linda Ronstadt. Ater riding upon a crest of success for so long, she has moved her slick Los Angeles/ Eagles sound towards different stomping grounds: New Wave. On Mad Love, Ronstadt makes some bold explorations of the rougher rock sound, and the end result is some­times disastrous, and sometimes mar­velous. Ronstadt knows this could be a dangerous experiment, since it may alienate devoted fans more accus­tomed to her softer style. In a recent national interview, she said: 
"I don't know how this album wtl! sell. I'm sure I'll lJe atttacked: 'Linda's sold out, tryit.rg to be trendy, gotten away from her roots. ' Well, I can't wony about what the critics say''· 
but' you have to adm\n: her confidence and willingness to try new things. 
How does the new Linda sound? Surprisingly not much different. Peter Asher, slick producer par excel­lence, and most of the usual L.A. "Section" session musicians are back. Ronstadt hasn't abandoned the mellower style; she has tried to expand and build upon it. When she remembers where she came from, the harder Ronstadt is intriguing and enjoyable. When she crosses the threshold into punk, she is terrible. Period. 
The rockier sound is directly attri­butable to Mark Goldenbers and Ron Glaub, guitarist and bassist of the New Wave group, The Cretones. Goldenberg and Elvis Costello (who has just released another fine New Wave LP of his own, Get Happy!) wrote most of the songs. 
The successful songs are "How Do I Make You,""I Can't Let Go," and "Justine." On all, Linda keeps the harder guitar riffs perfectly in balance with her milder harmonious style. The end result is gutsy, snappy, catchy, and sexy, although she occa­sionally slips into a Deborah Harry (from Blondie) impersonation. Fortu­nately, Ronstadt has enough vocal power to avoid Harry's sweetly artifi­cial notes. 
The best runes, however, are the Elvis Costello creations, "Party Girl, "Girls Talk," and "Talking in the Dark.'' Costello has an affinity for inspiring lyrical entendres and hyp· nottc rhapsodic melodies of such range that only Ronstadt can rise to the challenge and fill the measures with any real depth. 
The bad songs are painful to hear, at best. One cannot help but wince when Ronstadt forgets her gift for healthy melody and speaks the lyrics in a pseudo-English punky accent on "Cost of Love." On "Hurt So Bad," Linda tries to blend country senti­mentality and New Wave anger in an emotive, pained vocal that pronounces each syl-la-ble with condescending grace--a pathetic experiment. The single Nell Young composition, ''Look Out for My Love," just doesn't fit on the album at all--Neil does his harder songs much better on Rust Never Sleeps, and Linda does him an injustice here. 
MadLove, in short, is an admirable 
experiment, though in many respects, 
a failure. If Linda can remember to 
keep her glorious gift for accurate 
tonality and t?e energy of New Wave in balance, then she provides hard rock with some much needed namral melody. Linda's strength is that s~e can sing. If she could do thts consistently in a New Wave format, she'd have a milestone. 
Tim Sullivan 

Endofthe Century 
TheRamones 
(Sire) 
Gabba gabba hey! 

Gee whiz, what else can I say 
except that the best darn rock band 
in the world has just released a swell 
album destined to take its place 
alongside such rock classics as Cheap Trick's In Color and either volume of Abba's Greatest Hits. Yet 
unlike these albums, the Ramones' End ofthe Century surpassed them 
with a much more intense emotion and a greater social significance. 
Now, suppose that Jou were to approach me today an say, "Hey, Mtke! I've got a challenging philosophical problem from you. Describe the Ramones in just one word.'' Confident of my great knowledge, I cockily reply, "Fun!" Yes, fun. The Ramones embody the true spiri~ of rock 'n' roll. One can 
not help but be caught up in their 
infectious rhythms. Everyone wants 
to do the "Blitzkrieg Bop," don't 
they? There is no such thing as a 
depressing Ramones song. When 
they want to address topics of great 
social significance, they simply a­
dopt a light-hearted view of the 
subject. For example, take note of 
the treatment of child abuse in 
"Beat on the Brat." Yet, they don't 
laugh. They maintain a certain 
element of seriousness and this is 
part of their charm. I often wonder 
how these guys dressed in ~~a~k 
leather jackets, examples of vmhty 
adinfinitum, can be so serious about 
the nonsensical stuff they sing. But 
how can anyone keep a straight face 
listening to J oer. croon ''Baby, . I 
Love You,'' whde looking at hts 
cover picture at the same ttme. 
Phil Spector contributes his pro­
duction techniques on End of the 
Century and thts adds to the fun of 
this album. The bells in the back 
ground of "I Can't Make it on 
Time'' seem ludicrous when ·associ­
ated with Johnny's bludgeoning 
guitar. Once agam, the Ramones 
lighten their message and make us 
laugh. 
The significance of this album will 
probably never be measured. The 
Ramones tackl(t such pressing prob­
lems as mercenaries, insurance po­
licies, groupies, and what sights to 
see when touring a Communist 
country. And speaking of touri~g, 
there's even a song about roadtes 
called "Danny Says." It makes 
Jackson Browne look like a wimp. 
The Ramones' End ofthe Century is no disappointment to the millions of Ramones fans the world over who expect great rock 'n' roll from them. Ifyou let me down and don't run out and buy this album immediately I'11 probably lose my sanity (lose it?) and do something irrational rlike go 
headbanging with Suzy ,oi'self admi­nisteria lobotomy. I really like this album. It accurately captured the fun spirit ofrock 'n' roll. Just listening to this album makes me wish that I had a driver's license. 
Yabba dabba doo! 
Mike Ewing 

At Stepan 
Collegiate Jazz Festival Returns 
The Notre Dame Collegiate Jazz Festival has over the years blossom­ed into one of the premier jazz events in the nation, and this year's pro~ram promises to continue that tradiuon. The Festival, now in its twenty­second year, will open on Friday, March 21, at Stepan Center. 
Headlining this year's event will be such well-known and respected jazz personalities as Billy Taylor, Herb EUis, Tony Williams, Zoot Sims, Milt Hinton and Dan Morgentstern. These celebrities will serve as talent judges for the Festival. 
Joining these masters at the Festi­val, the oldest and largest event of its kind in the United States, will be a wide range and var.iety of highly talented colle~e performers. A total of 15 college Jazz groups, from eight states, are scheduled to perform at the Festival, playing every form of jazz from Dixieland to Swing, Be-bop to Fusion. 
Taylor, called "Mr. Jazz" by International Musician Magazine, and ranked among the top ten pianists by critics, is not only an extraordinary jazz mu:sician, but also a versatile composer, author, arrang­er, and conductor. A member of the Board of Directors of the American Society of Composers, Authors, and Publishers (ASCAP), Taylor has add­ed to the musical cont:ributions of the likes ofRoy Eldridge, Charlie Parker, and Dizzy Gillespie. 
A master guitarist, Herb Ellis has played with many of· the greats mcluding Jimmy Dorsey, Ella Fitz­gerald, and Oscar Peterson. Joining Ellis and Taylor will be highly acclaimed drummer Tony Williams. Voted 1979 Drummer of the Year in Downbeat Magazine's Reader's Poll, Williams has carved his own niche in the Americ@ jazz scene, after get­

ting his sta.d' with Miles Davis at age 
18. Sought-after saxophone player 
Zoot Sims has also raniCed in Down­beat's poll and is a welcome addition 
to the 1980 Festival. Morgenstern needs little introduction to jazz lovers. Former editor of Downbeat Magazine, Morgenstern is a highly respected critic and author and is widely recognized as one of the top critical authorities in jazz today. 
Bassist Milt Hinton, nicknamed "Tne Jud~~", has played and re­corded with Cab Calloway, Dizzy Gillespie, Count Basey and Louis Armstrong. He also served as co-chairman of the jazz panel for the national Endowment for the Arts. 
The first .nusic session opens Friday evening at 7:30 with a performance by the Notre Dame Big Band, flther groups set to eerform Friday include the Oh_io State ~ntv~r­
sity Octet, The Indtana Untverstty 
Jazz Combo, and ensembles from the 
Universities of Iowa and Alabama. 
At 10:30 p.m., Taylor, Ellis, Hin­
ton, Williams, and two other musici­
ans will take the stage for the 
")udges' Jam", one of the high 
points of the Festival. · Saturday offers both daytime and 
evening programs. The Purdue 
University Big Band will open things 
up at 12:30 p.m., followed by such 
other respected groups as the North­
eastern Illinois University Jazz En­
semble, the Notre Dame Jazz Combo, 
The Michigan State Umversity Jazz 
Ensemble, and the University of 
Wisconsin-Milwaukee Big Band. 
The third music session will open at 7:30 pm with a performance by the New England Conservatory of Music Jazz Ensemble. Other groups per­forming Saturday evening will be the University of Iowa Jazz Combo, 6e Ohio State University Jazz Ensemb'e, The University of Wisconsin-Ma.li­son Combo, and the University of Akron Jazz Ensemb)e. 
Admission prices for the gene ~al public are $5.00 for Friday evening program, $2.50 for the Saturc:ay afternoon performance, and $4.00 ::-or the Saturday evening festivitie~ . All-session passes are also availa )le at $8.50 for the general public ~ nd $7.50 for Notre Dame-Samt Marr's students. 

..... 


• 
I 

.... 
The Observer Thursday, March 20, 1980 -page 8 
In retrospect NDofold boasts-married students 
Editor's Note: This article is installed outdoor garbage pails, In his early years, he worked as the first part ofa two par/ series it was raised to $30 a month. a foreman at Studebaker. about marnedstudents at Notre When they black-topped the When he left on sick leave, Dame. Today 's wtll include a surrounding area because of Father Wilson asked him to histon'cal scan of marned stu­the great amount of mud (and supervise maintenance for Vet­dents ltfe-style just after World children), the rent went to $33 a ville. "I had done that kind of War II. Tomorrow's wtll month. work before. I'd built houses study contemporary lzfestyles of The post-war flood of married and had wired,'' he says and married students at Notre veterans applying to Notre adds: "I came here and liked it Dame. Dame with the aid of the GI Bill and never tried to work any­
put pressure on the traditional where else.'' By Anne Duffy University policy against admit­''There were good people-­ting married men. In 1946, the some people you J"ust hated to 
The married student dam of administrative resist­leave 10 old Vervi le. We had population at Notre Dame today ance shattered and Verville was some people over there, and the 1s less than three percent of the born. morning they left I didn't even total student body. Merely a There were other births and come to work. I didn't want to ghost of the number that exist­Verville grew. The residents see them leave," Carrico said. ed just after World War II. there laughingly referred to it He added that the couples had Manifestations of this "golden as "the fertile:: valley" since parties and bridge clubs in the age" for married students re­there were 106 "Notre Dame old hall there. The marrieds main: the "Verville" plaque babies'' born there between had more time then than coup­located between the Towers 1946 and 1947. Furthermore, les at Notre Dame do today. and the Memorial Library, vet­married students were not al­Prices were not as high and eran professors and other staff lowed housing in Verville with­women did not have to work. mem:Jers; student ''Notre out a family. Carrico later worked at the J:?ame babies," and Frank Car­Doris Bull, the wife of the present married student hous­nco. present director of personnel mg locations--University Vil­
Vetville was an arrangt:ment and resident of Verville for lage and Cripe Street Apart­of 30 prisoner of war barracks nearly rwo years, said in a ments-for 18 of his 23 years as a that University and Federal recent interview; "It was a Notre Dame employee. He housing authorities had dis· really close-knit community be­remembers well the day in 1961 mantled from a military camp in cause nobody had much money. when Verville was bulldozed to Missouri and brought to the It was just a big family and make room for the Memorial South Bend campus. There everyone knew they wouldn't Library; and when the first were 117 families in Verville, be poor forever." She explain­''Notre Dame baby'' returned and each barrack was 20 feet ed that in many cases, forty to Notre Dame as a student in long, 100 feet wide and neighbors would share one car, 196~. 
Gardening facilittes at University Vzllage. 
div1ded into a kitchen, two and during the early days at bedrooms, a living room and a Verville, one telephone. She bath. proudly added that Fr. Theo­
There was not much cabinet dore Hesburgh's first assign­Combine jobs, families space and the hot water heater, ment at Notre Dame was chap­washer, and dryer (if the stu­lain of Verville. dents had them) could only fit Frank Carrico remembers 
into the kitchen. Each unit was those poignantly close relation­Career women adopt flexible lifestyles 
warmed by a space heater built ships. Frank, 77, has worked into the floor of the living room. with married students at Notre by Patty Rydle enthusiastically about her tami-siastic. '' The rent was not high, just $27 Dame for the past 23 years, ly and her career, and each has Penny ] ameson, associate a month. When the University having just retired December 1. Mary Theis, assistant direc­a system with their own pani-professor of Psychology, is 
tor of counseling and Career 
cular "golden rules" to keep another Saint Mary's Faculty Development at Saint Mary's, 
things running smoothly. member with children. She
---------------------------·····l'll 
her It seems the main ingre-has two boys: Rex, 10, and
. ·.·D·s....····.:..···}.·217.-.G42..:;:···.·,·.·.:··..:.:·.·..:.····.:····'.·.'.''.·.·.:·:·:··.·.··.:.' has 2 children. During
RIVER CITY RECO.R . ...·~····· ..·.J diems are awareness of what Matthew, 8. She finds now
children's younger years, Theis 
notth•tn lndlana'alarg.att~Otd&tapi' · I worked part-time. Later she one wants, the organization to that as they get older they
r taught at a Montessori school achieve it, and--very impor-require more, not less, time. It
1 a•l.ctlon and conceit ticket heakua.-..a~; I tantly--a cooperative, not mere-
I ~ . I which her children, Chris and is a demanding situation which I I Corinna, attended. "Working ly supportive, husband. requires a well planned life, Originally intending to stay discipline, and "guality" time
I Cfl 00 any regular album Of tape 1 it all out'' depends strongly on 
her husband's flexible sche­home with her children, and spent with her children.I 'II • purchase with this coupon. I later deciding to work, Theis For her, a career she enjoys
dule and friends who help out.Off llmlton•,.r,.flon •xplr•a3/31/80 I Women today do have many feels there is no loss in and family lire balance each 
viable lifestyle options from learning through experience other out. Time spent at eachI20,000albumt & tQp••ln ttock .. . I which to choose. When plan­what is best for you. Some helps to keep the other in Hug• cut-out and a,.clallmpottMlectlon topttn 10.to10.1 ning for the future they must basic rules she lives by in-perspective.
1 
7 take into account the possibili­elude: always giving each At Notre Dame the percen­ND-.smc checka acc•pted up to S20.00 I ~ ·' ties and implications of a child some attention alone, rage of women faculty mem­
L ov•t putchaa• coat 1 
staying open to communication bers is much smaller than that
career, marriage, and children. 
~~\.:U.ti.~II.R1i.U~RU.&~!l~..b:!••J ''Juggling'' both a career and from her children, and honestly of Saint Mary's and those with a family, however, is no longer 
discussing their problems and children are fewer still. Kath­fit for only the Superwoman. suggestions. Organization, co-leen Maas Weigert, assistant There isn't any set system to operation, and honesty are Dean of the Collegiate Semi­follow, no prototype to pattern yrhat keep her "system" work-oar, is one of those few. She is mg. the mother of two girls, Karen, oneself after. senior bar.... Professors and administra­A professor of Art at Saint 8, and Sheila, 6. tors at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's, Carol Carter has been She returned to part-timepresents 
Mary's who are also wives and married 10 years and has a two work ten days after each birth mothers have chosen their year old boy, Joseph. For the and has utilized day care various lifestyles and have first 4 months of his life, Joe centers always. Still, she
pre-break happyhour 
arranged thetr lives accor­was cared for by a "grand-mentions, she managed to 

friday march 21st from 3:30till6:00 featuring 
• 

dingly. Each of them speaks motherly figure" who had ba-breast feed both children. bysat 80 other children before One of her cardinal rules is htm. During the summers, that of restricting business to Carter was home herself, and business hours and reserving later a neighbor helped out. the evenings and weekends for 
Fourth grade 
Now Joe ts old enough to her family. Otherwise, she attend the Early Childhood feels work could creep in and Development Center at Saint take over her life. Mary's. She also feels that if a
student Caner considers her up-2-career marriage is to work, bringing to be a very tradi-the husband must play an donal one. Education was equal role in the family life. stressed as nece.ssary to get a All of these women are
needs tutor good job which would serve "educators," but they educate only as a "back-up" in case of in a sense larger than one the death of her husband or restricted to classroom activi­
A student in the fourth grade divorce. ties. For their students--young needs a tutor on Thursday However, she feels equally women who may one day have nights from 6:30 to 8:30. Her weighted in both her career to play "superwoman"--theyacademic problems seem to and her family. To handle this are teaching a valuable lesson: stem from a troubled family she has had to "edit the junk" women can be wives, mothers,life. Transportation can be from her life. Carter feels she and professionals. And pro-provided to and from the tutor-has raised a very hapP.y and fessionals, whether are men or mg place. For more informa-lucky little boy who 'has a women, know how to balance 
l .........\.1~1 ~>A ... I •., .• ''' ~. ~ sp~c.:m.'t';.........~~.··'·'""'~~~·'·',J,iP,.~ CalL}o.RR.&i«•at• 23J-026Y. ·mother who can. be· •6nthu-• :.an, &oof·isleS,·::.::.·:::.·. •,':;:,·, • 

The Observer Thursday, March 20, 1980 -page 9 

Netters take first outdoor match 
by Michael Ortman wood breezed through his num­Fallon. It marked his 348th win at Notre Dame, tying him with
Sports Writer ber-three singles match in active fencing mentor Mikebeating Gary Samuels, 6-4, 6-2. 
DeCicco for Notre Dame's all­All nine matches were decided
The Notre Dame tennis team 
time coaching victory mark forres{>onded to its first taste of in straight sets which contri­all sports. Fallon will shoot foroutdoor competition of the sea­buted to a much-welcomed 
son by coasting past visiting early finish on a brisk afternoon the 350-win plateau this week­
end when the Irish play host wCincinnati yesterday afternoon, at the Courtney Tennis Center. 
Wisconsin-Oshkosh on Friday8-1. The win was the third The only Cincinnati victory afternoon at 3 p.m. and Indiana straight for the Irish men and came in the number-one singles State the next day at 1 p.m.
improved their mark to 4-2. The matchup between Irish fresh­Both matches will be at theloss was the third in as many man Mark McMahon and Bob Courtney Tennis Center, wea­days for the Bearcats during a Kronauge. The Bearcat captain ther permitting. 
three-match swing through In­beat McMahon 6-3, 6-4,. but 
diana. suffered strained knee liga­
"I think the fact that we got in ments in the process and was one day of practice outside (on forced to sit out the doubles Tuesday) was a bi~ plus for competition. . 
us,'' said senior capuan C~rlton Sophomore Tom Hartzell and ... Grace Harris. "Seeing a lob agamst a Tom Robison also coasted to blue sky is a lot different than straight-set victories, posting 
seeing it against the lights 6-1, 6-4 and 6-l, 7-5 wins inside. This was their first day respectively at the five and six 
[continued from page 12)
outside this year.'' singles positions. Hartzell had Harris enjoyed his day in the to rally from a 1-4 deficit in the Fisher, coming out of the second set. loser's bracket, suffered its
sun (and a few clouds) as he 
Mark Hoyer scored Notre initial tourney loss to Pangborn.
made short work of Andy Porter, 6-1, 6-2, playing in his Dame's first team point of the That game was decided in 
overtime and was also a one­number-two singles spot. Har­afternoon, doing away with Steve Levine in less than an point affair. Pangborn finished
ris later teamed with junior 
with a perfect 12-0 record, 8-0
Herb Hopwood at number-one hour, 6-3, 6-1. 
The win had special statistical in the regular season and 4-0 indoubles to polish off Porter and 
Keith Winter by an equally significance for Irish coach Tom the tournament.
:rom Robison won zn singles and doubles to help ND defeat 
·Cincinnati. lopsided count 6-2. 6-1. Hop­
. .. Batl,on 
to beating her gave me the both the men's and women's
[continued from page 12) 
confidence to do well in the teams. DeCicco makes the and started to pick up some .of finals round. " team close and makes sure that the fundamentals." Bathon lost to the Wayne everyone is helping their team­
Bathon progressed <tuickly State fencers, but !(iefeated St. mates. and earned a monogram m her Mary's fencer Sh~on Moore, "We are so suco::ssful be­first season of inter-collef;ill.te Irish teammate Dodee Carney cause we have Coach DeCicco. competition as reserve wtth a and Case Western/Reserve star He's more than just a coach. 6-6 record. Last year as a Janet O'Brien to earn the He is an influence both on and junior, she ended her second third-place medal. Bathon is off the mat." fencing campaign with an the first Notre Qame woman Maybe that's why Bathon 18-14 record as the number fencer to win a rbedal in the has additional roles on the three fencer on the team. Great Lakes tournament since team this year.Despite these successful S(:a­Kathy Valdiserri in 1976. ''Liz is the one on the team sons, Bathon, an intense per­"Liz has proved that she's that keeps us loose and helps fectionist, was not satisfied the most improved fencer on us to relax before a meet," with her two-year performance. the team," declares Irish fenc­says Susan Valdist~rri, next 
' 'I had higher expectations ing coach Mike DeCicco. ''The year's team capt~in. "She in my first two years, ev·en fact that she went from never brings a lot of candy and small though I was new to the fencint; before college to claim­joke-type toys which make us sport," emphasizes Bathon. ing th1rd place in the Great laugh."I felt that I really didn't get Lakes is remarkable." · "Liz is the team leader," the fencing time necessary to What are the reasons for her adds DeCicco. '"She's an develop as rapidly as I should quick success? inspiration to the entire have." "She fences more with her group."
This year, Bathon is the head than with her body," Bathon puts her heart and number two fencer and the adds DeCicco. "She is so soul into the sport of fencing. result is a fine won-lost mark smart that she minimizes her That is why she is especially and the high finish in the Gr(:at mistakes. That's what it's all upset over recent events con­Lakes. about in fencing." cerning non-revenue producing 
''The Great Lakes perfor­Bathon says DeCicco and her sports. mance is definitely my great1::st other teammates played major ' ''It really disturbs me that thrill at Notre Dame," ex­parts in her rise from reserve fencing is termed a minor claims Bathon. "Finishing to fencing star. sport,'' states the outspoken third was exhilarating. It has ''At first I learned a lot of Bathon. "Minor implies sub­given me a lot of confidence .. the fundamentals from Pat standard, and in no way, shape because now I know I can fe111ce Gerard (former Notre Dame or form are we below standard. with the best." women's coach and national We may not produce money, 
Bathon emerged from the champion),'' says Bathon. but year in and year out we first two rounds of the Great ''And then the rest of the team produce one of the top teams in Lakes tournament with six wins and Coach DeCicco have help­the country. And we are as and only two defeats. Both ed me. It is al;>solutely dedicated and we work as hard losses came at the hands of phenomenal the amount of as anyone on the football field Wayne State freshman sensa­comradery among the team, or the basketball court." tion and Australian native Gina Farahazy. 
The 6-2 record allowed her to advance to the third round. 
Virginia wins NITcrow~t 
After that round, a fencer must win two consecutive matches to NEW YORK (AP) -Jeff Lamp Sampson, who scored 15 move up to the finals round. hit four free throws m the last points for the 24-10 Cavaliers, Bathon won her first bout llnd 19 seconds last night and was named Most Valuable Play­confronted the more exJ>er­propelled Virginia to a 58-55 er of the tournam•ent. ienced Farahazy for the t 1ird victory over Minnesota in the time in the tourney. This time, final of the National Invitational In the consolation game Eddie Bathon was obsessed with a Tournament. · Johnson scored 25 points and desire to upset the Australian. Trailing 53-52, Virginia· put keyed a crucial second half 
The "possessed" Bathon together a string of six free surge that lifted IHinois to an took a 6-5 lead in the ei~iht­throws to regain the lead and 84-74 victory over Nevada-Las touch match. She could not hold off the Gophers in a frantic Vegas. maintain her margin however, finale of the 43rd NIT. Ralph Johnson, a 6-foot-8 junior, and fell 8-6. Sampson, Virginia's 7-foot-4 scored three baskets in a little 
"I knew I lost, but that bout inch freshman center, hit two more than a minute to move the 
really helped me in tlle tourna­free throws with 1:31 remaining Illini from a 49-48 deficit to a ment," confesses Bathon. to give the Cavaliers a 54-H 54-49 lead with 13 minutes left ''The fact that I had come dose . lead. in the game.. . , 
·,··~ ..~ ......... 

• • .. .fo • <0 .. e •• • • & • o. '" .. t. :0. ....... & ...... & L •• I • ' 

One way may be to live within t"-Augustinian Fraternity. 
When you come to live with us, you obMrve and 
participate In our community IHe for several years before 
making a final commitment. You obMrve that we are a 
religious community following the charlsm of St. 
Augustine and "that together and with one heart In 
brotherhood and spiritual friendship, we Hlk and worship 
God and that we labor In tha aervlce of the people 
of God." We aene In col~egea, high schools, parlshea, 
foreign mlulons, campus mlnlatrlea, ratraata, hoapltala 
and military chapl81nctea. 
WANT MOR~ INFORMAnON? CONTACT: 
Reverend John P. Sta, O.S.A. VillanOVII University P.O.Box338 Villano¥1, PA 1908& 
(216) 626-6612 

Name~---------------------------------­Add~'----------------------------------
Chy_____~ammw~------~zwp•_______ 
8ohool or Oo0._________.4"'1Ge~------------­
Phone 
.. 1 . 
• •.• • • 4 
"' ... , .,.. ,__ ....._ ___ ....... 
... ......... . 

The Observer -SportsBoard 
Molarity 

Doonesbury 
The Daily Crossword 


All Rights Reserved 
I VOTE TODAY VOTE TODAY VOTE TODA 
I 
Q ~ 
~ VOTE ~ 
~ ~ 
1·._ 
I ~ for smc student government ~ 
~-0 
~ officers today 
0 

I ~ ~ 
Q ~ 
~ inlemansfrom 10to4, ~ ~ and from 5to 6in the dining hall ~ 
~ d ~ TODAY!!! ~ 
Q ~ 
~ ~ ~ ~ 
·"'. OAAVGO.LH+,.Q(},AVGQ.LH~Q~AVQO ~i.
I d. r r·... ,, )II.. . . · ; .. ..:. ,. ...... ,
1..:'1 , . ,I' •'1' • . . .. '•., 
~ 
L_ 
• 


Y85. 5/R. PRE77YAMI/lJN6, HUH'! rr/AlAS ONL.Y A FW 
IA/AL.TER WEEK<; A60 7H8 PUNI?ff5 
Cf?IJNK!TE? fAifl?& CAL.L.IN& 7H5 CM­
ACROSS  30  Droop  
1  Fictional  33  Intimidated  
sleuth  34  Shallow  
5  Try to  container  
disprove  35  White House  
10  Knife  nickname  
14  Yearn  36  Blackbirds  
15  Call forth  37  Tufted  
16  "V'Jines­t1urg,-..  38  plant Since: Scot.  
17  Work by 410  39  Actress  
20  In addition  Ullmann  
21  Hold sway  40  -off (talk  
22  Make-of  frankly)  
(snafu)  41  Portions  
23  Great­ 42  Fearless  
25  Bakery  flyer  
stock  43  Hypocrisy  
27  Moves  44  In abun·  
stealthily  dance  
29  Strong wind  45  Chic  

Yesterday's Puzzle Solved: 


Thursday, March 20, 1980-page 10 
by Michael Molinelli 

by Garry Trudeau 

S(J57Jl.INEIJ /1./H/MSY.
/A/HAT 

BUT 7H8 IMPOI<TANT
At?.& 7HEY 

7HIN6 5 7HEY'Re CAlliNG NOT!C!N6, SIR.. 1?;] 
47 -·the-mill 19 Of a hard· 48 Kind of boy wood 50 Expel 24 Tavern 51 Lose force items 54 Two roman· 25 Sheathed 
tic poets 26 Came to 58 Map marking earth 59 State 27 Milan's 
capital La­60 Sidekick 28 Type of 61 Require column 62 Proprietor 29 Thin and 63 Gridiron bony 
action 31 Lil ­32 Simpletons 
DOWN 34 Outspoken 1 Dillon 37 Sty OCCU· 2 Eight: Sp. pant 3 Arnold 38 One-man 
Bennett performance classic 40 Marks 4 Lexicon 41 Italian 
letters poet 5 Stage 44 Oil well offerings 46 Wed 
6 Harmful 47 Charlotte ­things 48 Related 7 Study 49 -majesty 
strenuously 50 Norse god 8 Music maker 52 Flower and 9 Sleuth, river 
for short 53 Tournament 10 French draws river 55 Finnish 11 Charles port 
Lamb work 56 .. _is the 12 Is helpful time..." 13 Striplings 57 Race 18 Irritated section 

Job includes processing orders, 
setupllatout work, 
and general office duties. 
Will begin training now. Applyl-S_in person,Lafortune basement Questions ?? Oall 7047or Diane at 7994. 
"''','l '.: I ·~ ! I 
Interhall 
MEN'S RACQUETBALL 
Gandhi (8253) v. Trozzolo (3326) 
Hatfield (2255) v. Thomassen (3239) 
Lablnger (6216) v. Schaefer (6934) 
Mulligan (3285) v. Payner (6867) 
Other pairings were not available at press time. 
INTERHALL WRESTLING 
123 lbs.-Mark Gannon (Fianner) 
130-Chris Davis (Sorln) 
137-Paul Roberge (Cavanaugh) 
145-Greg Locksmith (Carroll) 
152-Bob lnfanger (Dillon) 
160-Steve Kester (Sorln) 
167-John Fessler (Grace) 
177-Bob Baca (Off-Campus) 190-Toni Masl (Stanford) 
Hwt-Larry Kissner (Fianner) 
INTERHALL VOLLEYBALL 
Farley II defeated Breen-Philllps I to win the women's championship. 
INTERHALL BASKETBALL Men's Dlvslon A 
GRACE (52)-Grassey 1 2-2 4, Crable 4 0·1 8, Bailey 7 0·114, O'Connor 6 0-0 12, Martin 2 0-0 4, Dam berg 3 0·0 6, Glaeser 20-0 4, Crowe 0 0-0 0. Totals-25 2-4 52. HOWARD (39)-Dix 5 1-2 11, Dolezal 5 4-7 14, Mazanec 1 2·2 4, Hicks 2 0-0 4, 
Keenehan 2 0-0 4, Leonard 0 2-2 2 . Totals-15 9-13 39. Halftime-Grace 24, Howard 21. Fouled out-none. 
Men's Division B Championship Last night 
Pangborn 39, Fisher 38 
Tennis 
Notre Dame 8, Clnclnnatl1 
Single.. No. 1-Bob Kronauge (C) del. Mark McMahon, 6-3, 6·4. No. 2-Carlton Harris (N D) del. Andy Porter, 6-1, 6·3. No. 3-Herb Hopwood (NO) del. Gary Samuels, 6·4, 6-2. No. 4-Mark Hoyer (NO) del. George Spohr, 6·1, 6·4. No. 5-Tom Hartzell (NO) del. Steve Levine, 6·3, 6·1. No. 6-Tom Robison (NO) del. Rick Zwelling, 6-2, 7-5. Doubles No. 1-Harrls·Hopwood (NO) del. Porter· Keith Winter, 6·2, 6-1. No. 2-McMahon·Hoyer (NO) del. Sam· uels·Zwelling, 6·2, 6-2. No. 3-Jim Falvey·Tim Noonan (NO) del. Spohr·Levine, 6·3, 6-3. 
... Meredith 
[continued from page 12) 
finance the last four years and was a Rhodes Scholarship can­didate in the province of Ontar­io. Ontario received two of the grants and he was one of the last four candidates. 
The entire West All-America squad was composed of players from the Western Collegiate Hockey Association. Goal­tender Roy Schultz of Wiscon­sin, a sophomore, backs up the team that is composed of three defensemen and three other forwards besides Meredith. The extra skaters were selected because of ties in the balloting. The All-America team is spon­sored by the Titan Hockey Stick Company. 
The All-American defense­man include Howard Walker of North Dakota, Dave Feamster of Colorado College and junior Theran Welsh of Wisconsin. The other forwards on the team besides Meredith are Mark Taylor of North Dakota, Tim Harrer of Minnesota and soph­omore Murray Eaves of Michi­gan. Harrer set the record for goals in a season by a WCHA player with 45 this year. 
West all-star coach Bob ) ohnson of Wisconsin will an­nounce the rest of his team March 23. Only Meredith, Harrer, Taylor and Feamster are seniors and thus, eligible for the aU-star game. 

The Observer -Sports Thursday, March 20, 1980-page 11 . 
j 


-Notre Dame freshman recruits 
NAME POS HT W'T HIGH SCHOOL HOMETOWN Jon Autrey LB 6-2 2'18 Snider Ft. Wayne, Ind. Greg Bell RB 6-0 1!10 South Columbus, Ohio Chris Boerner DE 6-3 2:!5 Memorial Madison, Wis. Chris Brown DB/QB 6-0 1110 Catholic Owensboro, Ky. Doug Compton OT 6-6 2!i0 West Carrollton W. Carrollton, Ohio Mike Favorite WR 6-3 1!10 Crete-Monee Park Forest South, Ill. Scott Grooms QB 6-2 1!11 Miami Trace Greenfield, Ohio Steve Keane c 6-4 2!i0 Muller Littleton, Colo. Mike Kelley OG 6-4 2:10 Westfield Westfield, Mass. Blair Klel OB 6-1 1!11 East Columbus, Ind. Cyrus King DE 6-3 2118 Thomas Aquinas Ft. Lauderdale, Fla. Mike Liebenstein DE 6-4 2:15 Craig Janesville, Wis. John Maarleveld OT 6-6 2110 St. Joseph's-Palisade Rutherford, N.J. Tim Marshall DT 6-4 240 Weber Chicago, Ill. Larry Moriarity FB 6-2 215 Santa Barbara Col. Los Angeles, Cal. John Mosley RB 6-1 1!10 Culver Military Acad. Omaha, Neb. Rick Naylor LB 6-3 210 Moeller Cincinnati, Ohio Roosevelt Reede DT 6-4 2110 Norwalk Norwalk, Conn. John Schiro DB 6-0 1110 Strake-Jesuit Houston, Tex. Kevin Smith OB 6-5 1!15 Saguaro Scottsdale, Ariz. Daane Splelmaker DB 6-0 1!10 Catholic Central Grand Rapids, Mich. Stacey Toran DB/WR 6-3 1117 Broad Ripple Indianapolis, Ind. Nevin Trammell WR/DB 6-2 200 Bellevue Nashville, Tenn. Mike Walsh OT 6-4 2110 Rockhurst Kansas City, Mo. Jerry Welnle DE 6-3 2:10 LaSalle Cincinnati, Ohio 
Classifieds 
Two NCAA FINAL-4 BB tix for sale. 
Tim 3810.

Notices 
-----------------------· 
RemlnQton SR 101 Single elementMORRISSEY LOAN FUND 
typewnter wide carriage: new $700.

ALL LOANS PREVIOUSLY DUE ON 
233-6208.

APRJL 7 WILL BE DUE ON APRIL 8. 1972 VW sedan-orange rebu1lt en­
Have typewriter-will type term pap· gine, radial tires, rear window def., 
ers, manuscripts, etc. 287-0892. 
AM stereo radio-24,500 miles on engine-$1250. Call Greg-work 277­

Morrisseey Loan Fund:last day for 0703. Home 683-7303. undergrads to apply Is March 26. 
Typing plus. Term papers, theses, 
Wanted

dissertations. Light editing, g~.ost 
writing. Literary search, biblloora­phies, Qenealogies. Job resume ser­Need ride to Pittsburgh for break. vice. Sliding rate scale based on load Can leave anytime. Will share expen­time. Special discounts on full cont­ses. Chris 3127. racts. for theses and dissertations. aardvark automatic solutions/p.o. box Need ride for two to Indianapolis, 
1204 46624/phone (219 289-6753. Cincinnati, or Oxford, Ohio on Friday, 
Saturday or Sunday. March 21,22 or Professional typing. Reasonable rates. 23. Call Betsy 6359 or Mike 8635. Experience typing thesis, journal a.rti­
291-0495. Chicago?? Three girls need ride to Winnetka. Share$$$. 4613. Off-campus Jocks: · 
Any men or women interested in Wanted: Need a ride to St. Peters­playing on the off-campus softball, tJurg, Fla. Will share expenses. soccer, or tennis teams please call Please call 5480 (SMC). Kathy at 233-6229. 
Need ride to Lafayette, IN. March 27 or 28. Call Ed 1820 
Need a ride to New Mexico over

Lost & Four1d 
break? Call David C. Schiesher. LOST: NO class ring. Engraved in:;ide (7181). MJK '81. Please call Mike 8436. 
Need one way ride to Nashville for LOST: Blue backpack with accounting break. Call 3726. and chem books in It, taken fmm dining hall on Friday, March 14. Gall Wanted: Ride to Buffalo!! For this 
1421. weekend, March 21 or any other. Call 
Lisa at 8144. LOST: One pair of dark m1m's sunglasses. I believe I lost them Sun. Need riders to Green Bay area for March 9 In post office. Please call break. 287-0422. Chrissy. John 232-7725. 
Need ride to Minnesota for break. LOST: SMC class ring. SMM and Can leave early. 8268. BSN-'81 on inside. Lost behind ACC. 
Call Sharon 41-4295. Please help me get a tan in sunny 
Lauderdale. Can leave Thursday,LOST: Pair of brown suede gloves in March 27, noon or after. Will share room 110 of Hurley Bldg. on March driving, expenses, and conversation. 
12. Call Brian 272-7684. Beth 1344. 
LOST: One silver earing SMC Sat. Need ride to Milwaukee for break. night. Call 41-4611. Can leave after 12:00 Thursday. Katie 
8142. FOUND: One male NO class ring '80 on North Quad. Call 7047 or 233-6370 Need ride for two to Chicago Fri. to identify. Ask for George. afternoon 3/21. Call Jane 7933. 
LOST: Week's iaundry,#90049, taken Need ride to NY metro. Leaving Mon. from St. Michael's last Wed., 3/12. March 24. Curt, 234-0467. PLEASE call Ed at 6863. 
Wanted: Ride to and from NYC or LOST: Black leather wallet containing vicinity. Will share driving and !. Can 10, Driver's License and five bucks. leave after 2 p.m. on 3/26. Call Tom Whoever finds it can J<Bep the mc•ney 1155. but please, please return the wallet. Call 4625. Need ride to NYC, Conn. for break. 
Leave Wed. p.m. Pay $40. Jay-8894.LOST: Class ring. Engraved MJK '81. If found please call Mike 8436. Need ride to DC area for break. Call Pete 2256. 
Anyone needing a ride to Omaha over 

Easter. Mike 8232. Kodac film for sale. 35mm, 126, 110. HALF PRICE!!!-7704, 6614--Doug. Need ride to New Orleans for break. 
Call Rick (7695).Got a blank space on your wall? Fill it with color basketball action photos. Desperate! Need ride to Northern NJ 
All players, all sizes. Cheap. Not right off 1-80. Must leave Mon. or available from Ronco or K-Tel. Call Tues. (25th). Share usual. Call Mike 8932. at 7289. 
For Sale 
Technics 35-watt receiver $140, KLH Need rides for two to Indianapolis300 speakers $80. Call John 180' . March. 22 and 24. Kelly 3810. 
1975 VW Beetle, like new, radio, Need ride to nyc for break. Call Janet defrost, low mileage, regular gas [SMC]4700.2900 or best offer. Call after 7 p.m.
?n:ni111­
...(}ridders 
[continued from page 12] 
Kiel and Grooms head the list. Kiel led Columbus (Ind.) Easlt High to an unblemished season and the state's AAA title. An accomplished passer, he is also known for his strong foot. His longest punt was 70 yards, which is good news for a team whose punting game has been virtually non-existent smce the graduation ofJoe Resuc. 
Grooms is the most highly-touted of all bigh school quarterbacks !this year. He followed in the footste_ps of Ohio State's Art Schlichter at Miami (Ohto) Trace High, and piled up 2,993 total offensive yards. in two years. Interest· ingly, many so-called grid experts claim that Grooms has a better arm that his high school predecessor. 
Chris Brown, from Owensboro, Ky., is another quality quarterback recruit. Last vear he passed for 1,300 yards and 14 touchdowns, in addition to running for 600 yards and four TDs. 
j

His 4.3 speed in the 40-yard dash, coupled with the stiff competition at quarterback, mi~ht make Brown a prime candidate for a defenstve back position. 
Devme landed a blue-chipper when signing 
Chicago Weber's Tim Marshall (6-4, 240) to a letter-of-intent. Known best for his defensive tackle skills, he should challenge for a starting berth. And when defensive coordinator ] oe Y onto travelled to Connecticut to sign tackle Roosevelt Reede (6-4, 260), the defensiw outlook began to look all the more rosy. 
Also among the most promising of recruits is Cincinnati's Rick Naylor, another of the many stars at Moeller High to enroll at Notre Dame. Naylor (6-3, 210), a linebacker, might be able to· step right into the _picture, especially if the Irish use the 3-4 defenstve alignment that they have supposedly been talking about. 
AI the recruiting analysts and scouting services include Notre Dame in their lists of schools that had top recruiting years. It's just too bad that the freshmen-to-be won't have the good fortune of experiencing those exciting spring drills. 
All classified ads must be received by 5:00p.m. , two days prior to the issue in which the ad is run. The Observer office will accept classifieds Monday through Friday, 10:00 a.m. to 5;00 p.m. All classifieds must be pre-paid, either in person or through the mail. 
Two charming, handsome males need Message from Morrissey to Laura , Michael Roberts, ride to Nashville, TN. Over break. Barry!! Please teach Danny Tarullo The boots are mine. Ransom: 100 Call Kelly 1472. how to party. We don't want him to lbs. of chitlins. No police your
or mother hears about dual penality.
"blow chow" on Jim Dailey's shirt 
Desperately need ride tCI Ft. Lauder­again this Thursday. MAINTAIN Scorpio dale area for spring breal<. Will share DANNY!!! diving and costs generously. Call Happy 22nd birthday Meg Broderick 
Ste·te (1428). To the 926 Adusees: Love T J Never before have an "innocent" 
Scintillating Conversational-1st group of boys been so easy to Bob Bernosk,e­needs ride to Canton, Ohio or gen. attack. Thank you for agreat night (or Thanks for the great meal. It was 
just like mom's.
vicinity for break. Can leave after half a night in some cases). We never 
Thurs. Morning. Share usual. Joe knew Domer Goomers could be so The Biggest Eater 3598. much fun! 
Patti:
Agnes and the G iris 
Need ride to PITTSBURGH. Can Aren't you weary of personals?
P.S. This personal was financed byleave Thurs., March 27, 3 p.m. change found on barroom floors. 
-Matt 1612. Who is this "Muggsey" guy and why does he think these awful thinQ,S of 
Have a Happy Hay Day!!!
Need ride to Tampa, Fla. for spring me? break. Will share drivin(l and expen­A shy girl
For a GOOD TIME call Michael
ses. Please call Christlann 272-7987. 
Burton (no sexual discriminations(--IRISH COUNTRY SPECIAL Thurs. Need ride to Florida for spring break. 
cheap-the last of the Red Hot .. night. Pitchers $2 and $1 off a large Will share expenses. Please call Sara 
Lovers. Ask for the American sex pizza. Thurs. from 6·9. pot!! Call1653.
7952. 

SATISFACTION GUARANTEED 
To THE Nancy Culp Help! !Am in dire need! of ride to Thanks so much for your kind reply. Boston for break. Can leave anytime. Nice to know all the stars In "Beverly
BILL May I please come over and search
Will share. Fun guarante•ed. Call Beth Hills" aren't "struck." 
tor lint?

at 41-4140. To certain, obviously silly (not to
------~~~~~----­
mention, cowardly and dumb), mem­
Pistol and Redneck, 
bers of Mr. Devenlsh's 1:15 TTh Intra
Shore 'preciate yore kind gift. If
Personals 
to Theo class:
ya'll ever want to go to Big Sky, just 
All I can say to you unthinking,
follow our "Wintergreen" trail. 
self-satisfied, pious fools Is: Try and
GIMPY AND DANNY throw beer. Yore Iovin' make me! Whether you choose ration­
Cowsisters

ooii'Q:--·-----------al or irrational methods is totally up to Be prepared, old buddy. Five wombats OBUD party Fri. 8:3fl..1 p.m. BE you. 
GEORGE V.
THERE!!

this Saturday-U.VA. is #1-go CAVS! 
Sue,
The wearin' of the green will be
Men of Morrissey Hall. Vote today­Godfather's after break. Be there.
celebrated up right,Dunn and Schafer. 
So come to the K of C Hall 9 p.m. 
To all those concernt-d, I regret totomorrow night.
Matt, Inform you that Tim O'Malley and
A St. Patty's Day Party will be thrown
That hideous growth 1m your other· South Phllly (John leonard) did not
by Howard Hall.
wise handsome face is disgusting! I get elected to hall office In Howard.
Thera will be refreshments and dane·
Did you say that you're trying to grow Consequently, there will be a dfeatist 
lng for one and all.
a beard to Impress your mother?? party after break. Call Tim at 8258 or Maybe you gave 'JP sha•tlng for Lent? John at 8265 for reservations.
JANA PODEBLSKI-Happy 19th to a
Or do you just enjoy baing axcrutiat· greeat friend!!
lngly ugly? Take my ad·wlce and GET Dear Secretary,
Love,

RID OF IT, the world can't taka much Smile, it's a nice day.
Your future roommate
more!! Or Is the question how much Thursday Features more abuse can you taka? 
HAPPY B·DAY JANA!!I!! ~--------------­
Found: Paper sack containing jacket,
Patty and Joe
MEN OF MORRISSEY HALL: in structures, March 19. Identify in VOTE TODJ~Y Observer office.
HAPPY BIRTHDAY KATHY FESTIN­
DUNN AND SCiiAFER 
V\.Il're going to show you how to 
Lennon is God, but Lou Reed was better
become 21 in style. Who needs sleep,
Dear Mr. Richard Byrnoe: 
't(JU say the bus leaves at 10?
Let it be known to J/OU t~at your I need a ride BACK from Richmond, 1darling daughter -the mfamous VA after break. Will share usual. .
THANKS TO EVERYONE FOR A
Michele-is gallivanting around th 
Call Steve, 3047
GREAT ST. PAT'S SURPRISE.
eND campus donning a. scant pair of 
REBS

salacious red panties with sequins 
Need a ride to Pittsburgh PA? Don't
that would make your·~1ead spin. 
have a lot of Bucks? Call me, I've got Thanks so much for the wonderful Etlb Bernoski, a $25 one way Greyhound Bus seatOpen Stage at the NAZ.Z-Thursday, 
waiting just for you!
tme!! You are a terrific chef.
9-12 Everyone Welcom1e!! 
John 1947, 86B1
Beth 

KULP KULP KULP KULP KULP CEIL:
1you have agroup and like to play In 
Just a line wishing you a good day.
tlsh Country Lounge call Lou at 3045.
WANTED: IRISH BAND FOR AN John McGrath TOSTAL FRIVOLITIES. IMMEDIAT· 
Don't fight the crowd. Relax at Irish SUPER HERO WORSHIPPERS
ely call; KEVIN: 287-46:35 or MURPH: 
QJuntry Lounge. Thurs. Spacial­EVERYWHERE:
7821. 

Bier $2.00 Pitchers, $1 off on large Now's your chance to design pzzas. unbitterman's costume! WinningHe's unfriendly, molicious, obnoxious 
design to be debuted at Bookstoreand crass. Joe Treanor for UMOC. 
IPIE-UMOC Basketball finals. Enter now, be unbitter!
Spot supports-SMASH!! Mr. Hands Supports Mr. Bill for IJ MOC. 
HI Mom, Diid. Bob, Steve, and Sam 
Miss you, but we'll tJe home soon!! Who Is John Galt? COLOR BASKETBALL PIX STILL AVAILABLE. SLAM DUNKS MAKE 
CHAPSTICK GREAT DECORATIONS. Call 8932. 
Tu fals les etailes briller! Patti: Randy ILYM B, let's talk. 
High Dog Boot Hockey League Dinner Patty s.­
Banquet-Fri. Mar. 21. 7 ·.m. 
Jana, Spendlng St. Pat's Day with youAmerican legion Pulaski Post. Call 

Hope you're 19th birthday is as 
really made the "field trip" anParry, Tom or Nlch at 233·5525 for special a you are. 
experience. How about an early
reservations. All fans, !~layers, coach· Love Rick reunion?
es and friends of Mutle•y the Wonder· American Express
dog are welcooma. Dln1ner tlx are $6. 
... ... . .... I.~~--· 
~ &••····~·· ·-· ...............t .•. ~.>.• ........ ... • I I I I, 1 <I I I,
................ 
If) J I'' t I I I'' I o I I) I 
' 
• • ' I I I i ~ I I ' ( . • • ' I I l \ ~ I I 
-,. .L."~ . 

'' 1 I\\ • 1 • 1
-_:_:t -___j__ ---­
~-------.--------------------------------------------------------~----------------------~·--­... 
Thursday, March 20, 1980 -page 12 
Title decided Sunday 
Grace forces second playoff gatne 
by Paul Mullaney to come out of its zone. Howard tonight. Assistant Sports Edz'tor kept pace with Grace -in fact, "I really feel the guys played the defending interhall champs an excellent game. Everything 
Faced with a do-or-die situa­took a brief lead at 29-28 -but just didn't go in our direction. tion, Grace Hall pulled away the north-quaders outscored Dix got in foul trouble early from undefeated Howard Hall their opponent, 20-9, in the (three in the first 12 minutes) in the fourth quarter and claim­final 12 minutes. and that got us out of our game ed a 52-39 inter hall basketball ''They can't handle us in a a little." victory last night at the ACC. man-to-man defense -but may­Berryman added that he was The Grace win forces a Sunday be in a zone," added O'Connor, somewhat ''surpirised that we evening showdown berween the whose team lost to Howard by lost our composure at the end of same teams for the champion­12 points in the regular season. the game. I made a big mistake ship of the Division-A double­"But who knows? We have to by not calling timeout with five elimination tournament. play them again.'' minutes left." 
Playing before a crowd of And Howard standout Kevin Howard came out of the nearly 250, Grace had little Dix knows exactly what his winner's bracket of the tourna­trouble finding the net. The squad will have to do when the ment with rwo wins after a predominantly-sophomore line­rwo teams square off again perfect eight-game season. up hit on 25 of 44 field goal Sunday evening at seven. Grace won the loser's bracket, attempts -including nine-for­"We really have to move the beating Flanner -the team that rwelve fourth-quarter shooting­ball better," he ::.aid. "We had put them in the bracket. for a .568 accuracy. didn't move it as well as we In the nightcap of the double­
"We had to pull them out of should have tonight. We had a header, Pangborn claimed the 
their 2-3 zone just before the little too much one-on-one ac­Division-B interhall title with an half,'' said Grace forward Tim tion, probably more my fault amazing come-from-behind vic­O'Connor, who had 12 points on than anyone.'' tory over neighbor Fisher, the evening. "We just weren't Dix, a first-team Bookstore 39-38. really doing as well against Basketball selection last year, With 23 seconds remaining, their zone as we felt we should had 11 points, while teammate and Fisher owning a 38-35 lead, have." Jim Dolezal was high with 14. Pangborn freshman Rick Chryst 
After Howard had deflated a Grace was led by Curt Bailey's stole an in-bounds pass at seven-point Grace lead to three, 14 points in addition to O'Con­half-court and raced for a 22-19, the victors held the ball nor's 12. Nonetheless, Bailey lay-up. Six seconds later, Fis­out on top, forcing the defense remained ca~tious when look­her forward Mike Briganti was 
ing ahead to the next meeting. fouled and missed the front end 
"They're gonna come back of a one-and-one. really tou~h," he insisted. "It After a jump ball, Pangborn's will defimtely be a lot closer. Paul Deangelis was intentional­
Meredith makes All-American team 
It's tough to beat anyone rwice ly fouled by Briganti on a lay-up in a row -and they're not just attempt. Deangelis calmly sank By Brian Beglane of four seniors who automati­With his 71 points, Meredith anyone. They hadn't lost in rwo both free throws with seven Sports Wn.ter cally qualify for the first annual also broke the record for points years. Maybe that is why we seconds left, and Fisher could 
classic. in a season by a right wing. were so ready tonight." not connect on the subsequent 
Greg Meredith, a senior from "Obviously I'm very thrilled That previous mark was held by Howard coach Mike Berryman possessiOn. Toronto, Om., was one of eight at making the team," said the Ian Williams, with 69. made it clear that his squad will Pete Smith led Fisher with 10 players named to the Titan 6-1, 205-pound forward. ''I was "It's very pleasing to see indeed be ready for the re­P?ints, while Bill Hathaway had 
Western All-America hockey not expecting to make it, and such an outstanding young man match. mne. Joe Gruber was high point team, the American Hockey being named to the squad is, as Greg get honored like this," ''Look for us to play quite a bit man, scoring 14 points for coach better Pangborn.
Coaches Association announced personally, very satisfying." said Notre Dame Lefty Sunday," he offered. yesterday. Meredith, the Meredith led the Irish in Smith, who also serves as "We've got to get more picks [continued on page 9] 
leading goal scorer at Notre scoring this year with 40 goals president of the AHCA. ''He down low -which we didn't do Dame, became the fifth Irish and 31 assists for 71 points. He really has been a key to our hockey player to earn All­rewrote the school record books program over the last four 
N D fencers strengthened
Amencan status. for goal scoring, breaking the years. Notre Dame will not be The voting conducted by the standards for goals scored in a losing iust a great athlete this AHCA will serve as the nucleus season by a senior and by a May-tt also will be losing a 
byrapidrise ofLizBathon
for the East-West Senior All­right wing as well as taking great student and person.'' 
Star hockey game, to be played over the top s~ot on the career Meredith has carried a near by Leo Latz victory, as she attained theThursday, April 10, 1980 at the goals list with 104 (Eddie ·4.0 grade point average in Sports Writer highest Notre Dame placing inCivic Center in Sr. Paul, Minn. Bumbacco was the previous [continued on page 10] the Great Lakes. The medalist Meredith, a right wing, is one record holder with 103). 
Liz Bathon's fencing career finish ranks Bathon among the parallels the miraculous rags­Midwest fencing elite. to-riches story of the 1980 "I knew when I came to United States Olympic hockey Notre Dame that I wanted to 
team. compete in some kind of The United States icers, a athletic activity,'' explains the group consisting of players senior science major. "I took 
Gridders begin annualspringfling 
Players despise ir. Coaches emphasize it. 
from all parts of the country, fencing in gym class my fresh­
Trainers worry about it. Reporters ove~lay it. 
man year and I really enjoyed 
had only six months to prepare
Most others probably don't care about It. it. So I went to the team's
for squads which played toget­
It's spring football practice, that month-long Paul her for several years. practice in April of that yearrigmarole in which superstars attempt to stay 
Bathon picked up a fencing 
[continued on page 9]

away from injury, regulars attempt to remain foil for the first time as a
Mullaney
attempt become

regulars, non-regulars to college freshman. She had less 
regulars, and coaches insist that they are than three years of fencing''looking forward to a very successful and read No. 1-A, No. 1-B, No. 1-C, ... experience when she met the exciting fall season.'' 
Who might win the quarterback job? That likes of Wayne State's foreign­Nonetheless, the ritual commences at Notre would be a great idea for a full-a-name-out-of­import fencers this season. 
Dame this afternoon when coach Dan Devine the-hat pool. Just think o the possibilities. They have been fencing for leads his sophomores,J'uniors, and seniors-to­
Tim Koegel, Greg Knafelc, Mike Courey, John more than ten years.
be onto Cartier Fie! for the first of 20 Skronski, Randy Wright, Eddie Hornback, Blair The U.S. hockey team seized . 
NCAA-allotted spring drills. 
Kid, Scott Grooms. Their names have all been the gold in Lake Placid with a The Irish will get an earlier start than usual, 
mentioned (the last rwo players won't join the combination of guts and un­due to the late date of Notre Dame's sprins competition until they enroll as freshman in the harnessed enthusiasm. 
mid-semester vacation. And ironically, It fall). Bathon captured third place appears that Devine and staff will be blessed 
One thing remains obvious. With such a in the prestigious Great Lakes 
with the best weather they've had in a few talented trio of returning receivers-Pete Fencing Tournament by utiliz­years. 
Holohan, Dean Maszrak, and Tony Hunter-the ing plenty of determination,All the spring activity will lead up to the quarterback has to have a decent arm. And, hustle and lots of "spunk."
Blue-Gold (or Green-Gold, if you wish) contest with fullback Pete Buchanan returning after She is a 5-3 dynamo on the on May 3, bur whether or not all of that activity missing last season with a broken ankle, the fencing strip and literallywill produce some concrete answers remains to quarterback should have amele time to let it go. drives her opponents off the be seen. Regardless, the questions will come But we could toss the possibilities around for end of the mat with her from all directions. 
days and days.The questionable positions won't constant attacks. As a result of 
The most often-asked question, of course, will So let's her aggressive style of fencing,
be determined until the fall anyway.
hope to find the winner of the quarterback Bathon has won 30 of her 41
rake a look at some of the highly-touted high
roulette competition. While in most springs the matches this season.
school seniors who will be coming to South
coaches' depth chart will list a No. 1 Bend in August. On March 8, Bathon provedquarterback, this year could be, and most likely 
a~ain that hard work coupled
(continued on page 11]

will be, an exception. The chart will probably 'With the desire to excel! spells 



.' 

Notre Dame 
Observer 07:251314 

11111111111111111111111111111111111111111 
016380 

Box: 14 
Volume: 14 
Issue : 111 
Day: Fri 
Date: 3/21/1980 12:00:00 AM 
Notes: 
Issue # Missing (may not exist) : 
Issue # Missing (probably not published) : 

----~ ----­

• • • Volleyball -Pages 10-11 
_________.:.._________...1__~--~-~ ----­
VOL. XIV, NO. Ill an 1 
SMCelection 
Sw-e~eney ticket w-ins 
by Mary Leavitt said. "They each kind of went Staffreporter their own ways. Last year the tickets were quite comparable 
A quiet campaign ended last and therefore more controver­night as Kathleen Sweeney, sial," she ob~erved. Joan McCarthy and Nini Stoll were announced as the victo­Despite the lack of turnout,
rious ticket in the Saint Mary's Sweeney was quite pleased
Student Body election by Mary "I am
with her victory. very

~ullaney, election commis­
excited over the results," she 

stoner. 
said. ''It was a most cordial campaign, and the other ticket The Sweeney ticket ran in the really had class. I hope we'll be 
election against the· ticket of able to work together for the Suzanne Schreiber, Bernadette betterment of Saint Mary's,"Calarco and Marie Liz Hackel. Sweeney commented. 
"I was very happy with the Schreiber, Calarco, and Hac­
way this election was run," kel were optimistic about their -Mullaney said. "The only thing ticket's loss. "We're glad we that disappointed me was the ran," Schrieber said. "There is poor turnout of student voters. no animosity between us. We Only 56 percent of the campus wish them luck and we'll help voted this year as compared to them in any way we can," she Studetlts brought their work andplay outdoors this week as high temperatures brought on 
73 percent last year," she concluded. 
spnng fever. [photo by Tim McKeoghJ 
commented. Mullaney attribut­
-
ed the lack of voter turnout to n;~es"Ch"ar:g6 '=~=--·------~:... =---===-=:-:·=-=--=--=-~~~ ~-·.:·-:-:::.:= =.::.: =~ -~-::.=: ::..c--::::_=--:::.::: -----·=== the short campaign period. 
''The candidates did not have as much time to campaign this year as they did last year,'' Mullaney explained. "I don't 
_St. Joe County Registrar defends position
think the students were altoge­ther aware of the elections." Laura Larimore dent voter registration made 500 forms to Notre Dame One. At present, there are 
In addition, Mullaney believed Senior StaffReporter yesterday in The Observer by students, including 200 given approximately 900 registeredthat a lack of controversy in this Paul Lewis. today to the College Republi­voters in the precinct. year's elections could have hurt Corrine Wroblewski, Saint J o­"We're not trying to discou­cans. Lewis denied this, giving A complication to the registra­the turnout. seph County Registrar, defend­rage student registration,'' 270 as the total amount. tion record-keeping is the re­
"Neither ticket was really ed her position today against Wroblewski stated. Iris Hile, Tv Lewis' initial request for quirement of a purge. Anyone
fighting this year," Mullaney accusations of hindering stu­the E.epublican co-chairman (a­over 1,000 forms, Wroblewski who has not voted in an election long with Wroblewski) of the replied, "We have never given in a period of 24 months 10-member !bipartisan Voter out 1,000 forms to anyone at previous to the preceding 1une 
Registration Board, also affirm­Notre Dame during my ·eight 1 is automatically stricken from 
U.S. appeals to World Court 
ed the actions of the registra­years in office. " the record, Wroblewski ex­
plained. ' tion office. The office is under She explained that the law Both Wroblewski and Hilethe jurisdiction of the Saiot requires the Registrar to keep a said they would be more than

for decision on hostages 
Joseph County Clerk. stnct account of all forms. 
willing to aid students in regis­In response to the charge that "Giving out so many makes the tration if they came downtown.

THE HAGUE, Nethc:rlands (AP) The U.S. government, appealing she denied students deputies job very difficult, especially They defined their position asfor an urgent World Court decision on the Tehran hostages, and registration forms, Wro­accounting for the ones never • one of registration, not recruit­warned yesterday that Iran might hold the 50 Americans blewski said the accusation was turned in," she said. 
menc.

indefinitely and thereby undermine world peace. unsubstantiated. 
Wroblewski gave this req_ui­"We feel those who take the''The si~nals which are now comin~ out of Iran suggest that ''We give deputies to definite site of the state as justification time to come down and register the detenuon of the hostages rnay contmue indefinitely,'' Roberts programs, such as the League for the turn-one-in, ~et-one­will also be the ones to vote,"
B. Owens, State Department legal adviser, told the International of Women Voters and certain back method of obtainmg new she said. 
Court of Justice. . high schools," Wroblewski forms. 
Wroblewski also clarified regi­''No one in this courtroom has any way of know10g whether th_e commented. She implied a lack She also cited previous voting stration deadlines. RegistrationAyatollah Khomeini' will continue to hold the hostages 10 of preparation in Lewis' ap­records. In 1978, 92 of a may be conducted by deputies captivity for a month or for a year or for a decade." proach. "l felt he was beli­community of 2,100 voted; in until midnight Saturday, withOwen did not elaborare on what the "signals" might be, but he gerent, unlike the others (Sean November, 1979, 583 voted. forms required to be submitted apparently was referring to the disagreements and indecision Heffernan and Greg Ansel­This community consists of all by 4 p.m. Monday. The fmal among Iranian leadc:rs about whether and when the hostages mi)," she added. 

on-campus Notre Dame stu­date for voter registration at themight be freed. 
Wroblewski and HiJe reP-orted dents and affiliated personnel, registration office is April 7 for 
Winding up for the United States in a case first put _before the they have together distnbuted ~ho vote in Portage Precinct the May 6 primary. court Nov. 29, Owen said :enuous U.S. hopes for a qutck release of the hostages were dashed in early March when a :U-~. investigative commission visiting Tehran was frustrated 10 tts mediation mission. 
He said the court, main judicial arm of the United Nations, is the most promising hope for the ultimate release of the hostages 
Budg~et plan may c,ut mailservices
a"d he called for a swtft final judegment. . . 
"If it becomes dear that a country hke Iran can setze diplomatic agents anc:il hold_ them h?~tage f<;>r in?efinite periods of time in order to coerce destred pohucal acuon, tt can only lead to •
WASHINGTON (AP) -House The $15.9 billion in reduc-Overall, Giaimo's budget pro­
a complete unraveling of the fabric of peaceful international budget-writers yesterday re­tions, generally supported by posal for fiscal 1981 calls forrelations," Owen said. 
commended an end to Saturday the congressional leadership spending $612.4 billion, re­Owen's presentation to the 15-member cou!t endc:d three days mail deliveries and federal law and the White House, were venues of $613.8 billion and aof public sessions called to ~ear ~he U.S. c!lse 10 dc;tad. The court enforcement grants as part of proposed Wednesday by the surplus of $L4 billion.
will now consider the case tn pnvate and tssue a Judgement, but 
their drive to balance the 1981 commtttee chairman, Rep. Ro­The committee still faces it will probably take several wee~s. . . . federal budget. bert N. Giaimo, D-Conn. tough votes on controversial
Signs grew in Tehr.an, meanwh1le, of defimttve ~elays m any 
The House Budget Committee Although President Carter cal­proposals to eliminate -the $1.7
action to free the hostages, who have spent 138 days 10 the hands urged those actions despite sign led last week for a balanced bilhon state share of revenue 
of Moslem militants holding th~ ~.S. Embassy. . . of new strain in the coahtton budget, the president has yet to sharing and to cut $1 billionRevolutionary leader Kohmet~t says the new Irama_n .P~rha­
pressin~ for approval of $15.9 submit a revised version of his from Carter's proposed level of ment must decide the· hostages fate, but yote counun_g 10 last billion 10 spending cuts and a 1981 spending plan. The bud­defense spending.
Friday's first round of parliamentary electtons was gomg more $1.4 billion surplus in fiscal get he proposed in Januaryslowly than anticipated. 
1981, which starts Oct. 1. called for a $15.8 billion deficit. [continued on page 7) 
' 
j 
1 

l ' 
J 
. l 

l 
-----------,. _ _., .._., ·•-• ,:>:So I • 


News in.brief 

Friday, March 21, 1980-page 2 

Deadly bacteria 
N.O. W. 'scharges 
Soviets deny g~m warfare 
MOSCOW (AP) -The Soviet step yesterday afternoon of had discerned the anthrax out­
frustrate frisky lawyers 
Union confirmed to U.S. Em­telephoning Western corres­break from a series of rumors bassy officials yesterday that pondents to "resolqtely reject" and eyewitness accounts reach­FORT WAYNE, Ind. (AP) -The National Organization for 
there was an outbreak of deadly attempts to question Soviet ing the West from emigres. Women has launched an investigation of male Allen County 
anthrax last April in the Ural good faith concerning the five­On Wednesday, the State 1ttorneys whose female clients claimed they solicited sex in 
Mountain city of Sverdlovsk, year-old international conven­Department said it believed a exchange for reducing or eliminatin~ legal fees. The 
but denied the epidemic was tion banning production and Soviet biological warfare acci­alleged practice apparently has been gmng on in several law 
the result of a germ warfare use of bacteriological warfare dent left "a substantial number offices and amounts to solicitation for prostitution, said 
accident, sources said. agents. of fatalities, perhaps running Kate Love-) acobson, President of the NOW chapter in Fort 
They said the Soviet reply In Washington, State Depart­into the hundreds." Wayne. "We know it's happened enough that now we're 
came in response to a query ment spokesman David Pas­While the Foreign Ministry going to launch a full-scale mvestigation," she said. The 
made by top embassy officials sage said the Soviet explanation was privately telling American mvesti~ation began about a week ago, she said, based on 15 
Monday. The sources, who was "a satisfactory initial re­diplomats the outbreak had complamts from women during the past several months. 
asked not to be named, said the sponse'' and the United States occurred, the official Tass news NOW hopes the inquiry will result in prosecution for 
State Department instructed would study it carefully. agency denied reports of an solicitation wherever the evidence supports that action, 
the embassy Saturday to ask Department officials, speaking accident at a bacteriological Love-Jacobson said. "We don't want revenge, though," 
the Foreign Ministry to explain privately, said the department warfare plant in Sverdlovsk. she sai9, "We just want it stopped." 
mounting evidence that there had been an epidemic and it was the result of a biological 






SUNDAY MASSES AT SACRED HEART CHURCH 
warfare accident. Top embassy officials were 
5:15p.m. Saturday Rev. Robert Griffin, C.S.C.
called to the Foreign Ministry 
9:00a.m. Sunday Rev. Austin Fleming
yesterday morning to receive 
10:30 a.m. Sunday Rev. Theodore Hesburgh, C.S.C.
CamP-_u_s-------~ 
the Soviet rer•v, which acknow­
12:15 p.m. Sunday Rev. William Toohey, C.S.C. 

ledged the antnrax outbreak in 
7:15 p.m. Vespers Rev. Theodore Hesburgh, C.S.C.
Sverdlovsk, an important indus­
Friday, March 21· 
trid center 1,000 miles east of 
Moscow, according to the sour­
11:15 a.m. LECTURE SERIES "the integration of 
ces. Anthrax, a potentially fatal 
campus
successive glances," dr. julian hochberg, columbia u. 
disease for cattle and humans, is
HAGGAR HALL AUD. 
miniStry
caused by bacteria. A Foreign Ministry official1-3 EXHIBITION ceramics by patricia brophy ISIS 


also took the highly unusual
GALLERY 





4 pm INAUGURAL LECTURE "political philosophy 
=hLJ..."l:S~T~UD~E~NT~L-EG_A_L.
today," dr. fred dallmayr CCE AUD. 
~SERVICES
Committee 
4:30pm LECTURE "Photosomes and the reconstitution of 
BASEMEtU, NOTRE DAME LAW SCHOOL 
oxy~en, evolutin of photosynthesis," dr. douglas winger, u. 
urges 
LEGAL ~ID & DEFENDER ASSOCIATION
of cmn. 123 NIEUWLAND 
ROOM 8·12 283·7795 11 am · 2 pm (IV: • F)
5: 15 MASS AND DINNER BULLA SHED 
applications 
other times by appointment 
WE HANDLr ALL 1=1NANCIALLY
The University Committee on
7 pm BENEDICTION AND STATIONS OF 1HE CROSS 
QUALIFIED STUDE:NTS & STAFF
Education for Justice is current­ly nominating members for the 7,9,11 pm MOVIE "funny girl" CARROLL HALL SMC $1 
ALUMNI CHAPEL 
1980-81 academic year. Any student of faculty member in­7,9,11 pm MOVIE "monty python and the holy grail" 
terested in working with the ENGR. AUD. 
Committee is encouraged to apply. 
7:30 pm COLLEGIATE JAZZ FESTIVAL STEPAN CENTER 








The Observer 
8 pm TRAVEL FILM "as an artist sees spain" 
Night Editor: Margaret
O'LAUGHLIN AUD. SMC 
Kruse · Asst. Night Editor: Mike Monk, Marx Kasper
Saturday, March 22 

Layout Staff: Lois Kennedy, 
Joel Annable the Cannibal
9 am VOLLEYBALL TOURNAMENT blue wave-o'hanlon's 
(except on Fridays during
invitational ANGELA .tUHLETIC FACILITY 
Lent), Neil "Maybe now 
Ryan and Cindy are satis­
9:15am TRIP TO SR. MARITA'S alpha phi omega service 
fied" O'Brienfraternity 
News Editor: Mike Shields 
Editonal Layout: Ann Gales 
12:30 pm COLLEGIATE JAZZ FESTIVAL STEPAN 
f<eatures Layout: Molly "I
CENTER think he got the visa!" 
Woulfe
7,9,11 pm MOVIE funny girl" CARROLL HALL SMC $1 
Sports Layout: Chris
i ,9,11 pm MOVIE "hang the drum slowly" engr. aud. 
Needles 
Typists: Carol Cornwall,7:30 pm COLLEGIATE J A'Z2 FESTIVAL STEPAN 
CindyJones, Carol Shuback, 
BREAK TIME 
CENTER Pat Shaugnessy EMT's: Paul Selavko, Liz "In The Clutch" Huber 
DIRECT O'HARE 
Sunday, March 23 
Proofreader: Dan Ryan, 
Paul Hurley "the cube" 
Ad Design: Mike
10 am SAILING LESSONS sponsored by nd sailing club 
$15 EXPRESS $15
Supplement Layout: Tom
BOAT HOUSE Schuster 
Photographer: Tim Mc­
1,3 pm MOVIE "where the boys are" CARROLL HALL 
from NOTRE DAME CIRCLE
KeoghSMC $1 
Guest Appearances: John 
"The end is near--I can feel 
depart· 4pm arrive 5:30pm •
March27
2 pm FILM "net~yaa" LIB. AUD. 
it'' McGrath 
.I 


lOam 11:30am
3 pm CONCERT by southold dance O'LAUGHLIN AUD. 
March28 
Tht Obsii'Yir !USPS !ill 121) Is publisllld Mondly tllrcugll Frtdly IX· 
lpm 2:30 pm
7,9,11 pm MOVIE "bang the drum slowly" ENGR. AUD, 
cepl during wm and VICitilll plrilds. The Observer is pullllsllld 7 pm MEETH\G an tostal staff LAFORTUNE LITTI..E 
students IJf Notre THEATRE 
7:30 pm SPEAKER "era: a catholic perspective" dr. 
elm postqe pilei, NWI 011111,
maureen feedler LIB. AUD. 
dilna-411555. 
8 pm TALK "living a life of prayer" james finley CRYPT 
Aalclltld Pma. All OF SACRED HEART CHURCH 
rtgllts .... I'IIIIWd. 

jl,iULioiJti~~A.J> 
• • I 

---~~------------------~ 
The Observer Friday, March 21, 1980-page 3 


Over Pakistan border 
Soviets pursue Afgl.tan rebels 
BA]A WOOR, Pakistan (AP) ­Afghan rebels who brought their families across the high mountain border in the Hindu Kush range yesterday to shelter in Pakistan said they were pursued all the way by Soviet helicopter gunships. 
"More than half the people in my village were killed," said Shakir Brasul, a young, beard­ed Pathan warrior from Kota­pur village in Afghanistan's Konar province on the other side of the molllntain. 
He got across the border with a group of about 60 survivors, including women and children of all ages. ''It was so cold coming over the mountains that four children in our group died of exposure,'' Brasul said. 
As he spoke the sound of heavy guns and explosions rumbled through the mountains that divide Pakistan from Ko­nar, where Soviet and Afghan government troops launched a large-scale anti-rebel operation 20 days earlier. 
His group was the latest to reach the Khazana refugee 

Para(le selects Murphy 

A Notre Dame senior is one of a group of campus leaders across the nation selected to accompany out­standing newspaper carriers on a tour of Yugoslavia and Greece. Martin Murphy of Napervillw, Ill. was named by Parade Magazine as a chaperone for the April 15­28 triJ?. 
MaJoring in accounting and economics in the Col­lege ofBusiness Administra­tion Murphy has been a leader in the Neighborhood Study Help Program, a vo­lunteer program involving more than 300 Notre Dame and Saint Mary's smdents who tutor grade school stu­dents in 20 centers in the South Bend School Corpora­tion. Murphy ha.s served as a tutor, director ofa tutoring center and curre1t1tly is tran­sportation coordinator for the program. 
Murphy said he consi­dered volunteer work to be his most rewarding Notre Dame activity and hts parti­cipation in the annual Mardi Gras pro~ram was prompted by the distribution of pro­ceeds to several area chari­ties. 
Inau~ural ceremonies to­day wtll honor Fred R. Dallmayr, the ftrs.t holder of the Packey J. Dee Chair in Government and Interna­tional Studies. Events will include a public lecture by the new Dee Protessor, en­titled "Political Philosophy Today," to begin at 4 p.m. in the Center for Continuing Education auditorium. 
Although this is his first year in residence at Notre Dame, Dallmayr was named to the endowed professor­ship in September 1978. From July 1978 through June $979, he held a fellow­ship for independent study and reasearch from the Na­tional Endowment for the Humanities and was a re­search fellow at Nuffield College, Oxford University, during the fall term. 
• Dallmayr is a political theorist whose major inter­ests include contemporarv political theory, contemporary European polittca.l thought, theory of social science, and modern political thought. 
"Professor Dallmayr is both a fine scholar and a creative, subtle thinker," Dr. Peri Arnold, chairman of the Department of Govern­ment and International Studies, said. ''His work in 20th century European poli­tical and social philosophy will greatly strengthen our already strong field of politi­cal theory. Furthermore, he reinvigorates the tradition of eminent European scholars in the department. He not only holds a Munich docto­rate as well as an American Ph.D., but he also maintains close ties with the European scholarly community." 
A native of Germany who received U.S. citizenship in 1962, Dallmayr received a Doctor of Law degree from the University of Munich in 1955, an M.A. from South­ern Illinois University in 1956. 

•fftf•••••••r••••••r•••r••••••••••••••••••""-'*)'"' 
camp, only 10 days old but already cramped because 5,000 refugees a day stream in from Konar.. 
Brasul said it was a four-day climb through the snow-cover­ed ridges to the safety of the border a couple of miles from the refugee camp. 
The rebels said the Soviet and Afghan troops used Mig fighter bombers, artillery and tanks against the mountain villa~es and later dropped parachuttsts to mop up resistance. 
The rebels were forced to abandon their villages and took to the mountains, where they continued fighting until their ammuntion ran out, Brasul said. "Russian helicopters flew overhead constantly trying to locate us and kill us, but most of the time we managed to hide amidst the boulders on the mountain slopes and a~oid de­tection.'' 
The Russian troops have been in Afghanistan since late De­cember, when they backed a government coup and remained to help the government pt-t down the rebellion by these devoutly Moslem, anti-commu­nist trib•esmen. 
The camp of 5oo small green tents, allocated one per family, is pitched in neat rows in a field next to a small river. There are more than 600 families here but many more are ;scattered in nearby villages in the Bajawour Valley or live out in the open because there are not enough tents. 

Ne\V doubts arise in ho~tage situation 
(AP)-Iran's attempt to elect a new Parliament bogged down yesterday in slow vote-counting ~d complaints of improprie­ties, castmg new doubt on just when the revolutionary govern­ment will be ready to make a decision on freeing the U.S. Embassy hostages. 
Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini in a Persian new year broadcas~ to the nation, chided those who have accused some groups of fraud in last Friday's voting. Such loud complaining before the rest of the world is anti­Islamic, he said. 
In Washington, U.N. Secre­tary-General Kurt Waldheim, apparently concerned over in­creasing public anger among 
U.S. polittcians, told reporters that any American attempt to end the crisis by military force would ''create an explosion'' in the entire Middle East. 
Republican Sen. Richard Lu­gar of Indiana, in a statement Wednesday endorsed by Senate Republican Leader Howard Ba­ker, called on the Carter admi­nistration to prepare for a naval blockade of Iran and for mining of its ports. 
Revolutionary leader Khomei­ni has said the new 270-seat Parliament, or Majlis, must decide whether and whell to 
release the hostages, who spent their 138th day in captivity yesterday. Iranian officials have predicted this decision could not be made before mid-May. But by yesterday it was dear that Lht vote counting from last Friday's first round of parlia­mentary elections was going more slowly than anticipated. Final results mar not be known u.ntil eru:ly A~ri , election offi­cials satd, virtually ensuring that the second round of voting will be delayed a week or more beyond the planned date of April 4. This in turn would probably mean a further post­ponement of a deci~.ion on the hostages. 
The second round of voting will consist of runoffs in dis­tricts where no candidate won a majority last Friday. 
Allegations of fraud are fur­ther complicating the electoral process. Most of the complaints are aimed at the clergy-domi­nated Islamic Republican Party, which leads in the early el~ction results. 
The . ruling Revolutionary Council has named a commis­sion to inv~stigate the allega­tions, and President Abolhas­s~n Bani-S~d~ met yesterday with Khomeim to discuss them. 


DILLON HALL SAYS: 
CONGRATULATIONS TO THE DIRTBALL TRACK TEAM· 
****,It*********************************************** 
15>80 CAMPUS CHAMPIONS 
*************************************************** 
AL!SO TO THEl3IG RED HOCKEY TEi\M FORA SUPER SEASON AND CAJMPUS RUNNER-UP· 
--------------------~~----~~-------~-----~­

The Observer 

Friday, March 21, 1980-page 4 
Haight-Ashbury 
15 years can make a difference 
SAN FRANCISCO (AP) -Fif­teen years ago, a street sign marked the crossroads of young America. 
Orphaned by the death of a beloved president, cast into the army by what they felt was an unjust war, given material wealth without moral guide­lines for using it, a new generation fell apart and came together at the corner at Haight and Ash bury. 
Fifteen years ago. It was a time of flower children, the Jefferson Airplane and the Greatful Dead. Of marijuana and LSD. Of communalltving, long hair and outrageous cloth­ing that once and for all divorced the young from the old. 
It was, Paul Kantner recalls, a time of innocence -''a never­never land.'' 
"It was an experimental time," says Kantner, who helped found the Jefferson Airplane back then and is the only original member of the band, now called the Jefferson Starship. 
"We trusted the drugs we took, almost offered ourselves as guinea pigs for a whole new way of dealing with each other." 
Joan Didion was less kind. In 
''Slouching Towards Bethle­
hem," she called what was 
goin~ on here in the mid '60s 
''soc1al hemorrhaging.'' 
''San Francisco was where the 
missing children were gather­
ing and calling themselves 
'h1ppies,"' she wrote, and she 
meant the Haight-Ashbury. 
But now the magic is gone, along with the posters that once converted the walls of Haight Street into a minarure Pekmg, announcing free con­certs in nearby Golden Gate Park and promoting the slo-
EARN OVER $730 A MONTH DURING YOUR SENIOR YEAR. 
Interested in math, physics or engineering? Then you could earn as much as $730 a month, for the rest of your senior year, in the Navy's NUPOC-Collegiate Program (NUPOC) is short for Nuclear Propulsion Officer Candidate). 
If you qualify, then upon graduation you'll get 16 weeks of Officer Candidate School, and an additional year of advanced technical educational. Education that would cost thousands in civilian life but in the Navy we pay you. And you'll receive a $3,000 cash bonus at the end of your training year. 
It isn't easy. But those who make it fmd themselves in one of the most elite engineering training programs anywhere. With unequalled hands-on responsibility and a $24,000 salary in four years. 
For more details, simply see your Navy Officer Programs Representative, when he is on campus 
Or call (collect) 312-657-2171. 

gans of the left calling for one 
world, one people. 
Today, Ha1ght-Ashbury is like 
many neighborhoods in the 
city, sporting a variety of shops 
and restaurants, noble Victo­
rians being renovated, and a 
sizable gay community bring­
ing in new business. 
Few signs remain of the time 
when the anti-war movement 
flourished and Greatful Dead 
leader Jerry Garcia poured 
forth the first psychedelic 
chords from his black and gold 
Gibson. 

"In the beginning, it was a 
very pleasant thmg," says 
Alex Holcombe, whose jewelry 
store has operated on the 
corner of Haight and Ashbury 
since 1932. 

''But it degenerated into a 
very heavy drug culture. I 
never went out of business, but 
we did lose 19 stores on this 
street. 

Dr. David Smith, founder and medical director of the Haight­Ashbury Free Clinic, has seen it all. 
"You saw the beginnings of the counterculture and psyche­delic scene as early as 1964," he says. ''In '65 and '66 it accelerated, and in '67 it peaked, the primary things being the rock groups and the expanded use of LSD.'' 
The clinic opened in 1967, operating 24 hours a day, says Smith, and treating as many as 200 patients a day, mostly for bad LSD trips and short term outpatient care. 
Today, .the clinic has evolved and expanded to include five sections, including detoxifica­tion for heroin addicts and a women's center, as well as a volunteer training branch and a research department. 
By 1970, the Haight-Ashbury was in the throes of a major heroin epidemic. The inno­cence that had heralded the new age had given way to crime and violence. The rock stars had long since packed up and moved to more pleasant surroundings in the suburbs. 
"It turned into a jungle," remembers Kantner, who blames that on the police. ''They allowed it to happen almost gleefully. Sort of to let the flower children face the tough world.'' 
The Haight looked, according to Smith, "like a bombed out ghetto." 
''There was so much crime and violence that only the most hardy of businessmen could hang in there. " 
But hang in there they did, and the neighborhoc d made a comeback. 
"I would say that 1971 and 
1972 was when there were 
some major community organi­
zation successes and the neigh­
borhood started getting to­
gether," says Smith. "The 
community started taking con­
trol and believing that they 
could handle it through rehabi..­
litation rather then the urban 
redevopment plans that were 
advocated by city hall. 
''As soon as things started improving, there was a big influx of different populations, includin~ the gay community," says SmJth. ''They came in and bought a lot of the houses and renovated them, and they 'O­pened a lot of shops and worked to improve the area.'' 
Renovation brought new pro­blems, however. Real estate prices skyrocketed, with some s rents jumping as much as 300 percent when apartment hou­
:I 

ses were sold. Neighborhood organizations fear that rede­velopment will result in a street decorated with tourist shops, driving land prices up further. 
There still are people on the street who look like character actors out of the original play, although Kantner says he doesn't feel a lot of life in the Haight. But Smith and others who work and live there are happy with the way things are turning out. 
''The old idealism still sur­vives, but it's tempered with reality," said Smith, adding that as far as he is concerned, the nei~hborhood has gone from be10g one of the most dangerous in the city to one of the safest. 0 Perhaps the most clear-cut proof of change in the Haight, 
however, is supplied by Kant­ner. He stills goes back every so often, but when he does it's not to play free concerts or take drugs. He goes to the Mac­Donald's on the end of Haight Street and buys his daughter a cheeseburger. 
Gas prices soar overseas 
(AP) -The next time you pump $1.201-a-gallon gasoline 10to your car -and think longingly back to last year when 1t was half as much ­consider the !?ocr motorists in other countnes. You could have it worse. 
You could be drivin~ in Bul­garia, where the pnce of a gallon of regular gasoline dou­bled to $4.32 last year, or in Italy, where a gallon of high­test would set you back $3.02, up 71 cents in a year. 
An Associated Press world­wide survey, condutted in late Ja~uary, found that. ga~oline pnces m most countnes JUmp­ed as the world price of crude oil doubled to nearly $30 a barrel over the past year. 
In Hong Kong, gasoline climbed to $1.72 from $1.12 , prompting one wealthy tactory owner to forsake his luxury Mercedes-Benz and Continen­tal cars for a compact Honda. 

Israeli schoolteacher Shlomo 
Eidaw said a 53 percent in­
crease in gasoline prices over 
the past year has meant 
"there's no way I can afford to 
drive my car to work instead of 
takin~ the bus" for his daily 
24-mlie round-trip commute. 
"We take the car only if we 
have a lot of shopping of for 
trips, which are very infre­
quent these days," Eidan said. 
I~raeli gasoline prices have 
nsen to $2.60 a gallon from $1.70 a year ago. 
In Denmark, bus use in metropolitan Copenhagen jumped 10 percent as the price of a gallon of gasoline climbed to $2.55from$1.45 a year ago. ~ven 10 oil-rich Britain, gaso­line now costs $2. 34 a gallon, up from $1.64 a year ago. 
A survey by the Greater London Council said the price rise apparently has spurred a drop 10 the number of cars 
[continuedon pagtr .14] 
•' 
~ 
J 

The Observer Friday, March 21, 1980-page 5 
Notre Dame n1arried couples encounter many difficulties 
Editor's Note: This is the secondpart ofa two-part arllde about married students at Notre Dame. The topic is the pres,<Jnt social and living conditions t.bat exist for this silent minority. 
Liz and Jim Niehaus are married undergraduates at No­tre Dame. They account for two of the 39 wedded undergradu­·ates. Two-hundred twenty-f:tve graduate students combine with that number to equal the total population of married students at Notre Dame. Looking for ~heap h~usinB m:ar to campus, Ltz andJtm Ntehaus studied the options available to married students. 
The Niehauses discovered that Notre Dame offers 117 units in a housing complex called University Village, one­naif mile from campus. One criterion at the Village is that the residents have children. For those who do not have children, there are 24 apa.rt­ments provided on Cripe Street. 
The University Village apart­ments have two bedrooms, a living room, bath, and a kit­chen. The Cripe Street apart­ments only have one bedroom, but otherwise their layout is the same. 
Fr. Michael Heppen, directm of housing, explained in a recent interview that his office is not directly responsible f,::>r providing married students with housing arrangements. According to Heppen, the stu­dent managers of the Villa~:e and Cripe Street apartments arrange the leases. 
"I don't know if there are 
married students who are not 
able to get married student 
housing or not,'' Heppen said. 
He added, "I haven't had any 
complaints so I assume we're 
doing well in that area. There 
are no changes to be made in 
the foreseeable future." A 
random sampling of 27 married 
students at Notre Dame were 
surveyed as to whether or not 
they had difficulties finding 
housing arrangements! Nine 
said "yes" and 18 answered 
'~no.'' • 
As the Niehauses have a young daughter, Stephanie:, chose to live in Umversity . The youn~ family tried non-umverstty S,(>onsored apartments, butJtm noted "at University Village you 't beat the rent and the kids lot ,?f playmates and 
Hna~P·v...r, the couple ob­
an unusually difficult 
blem of communication 
The problem is with the 
~..,.,..~.. language. There are 
married foreign graduate 
who have come to 
having previously 
degrees in their own 
. Although the stu­
do speak English, many 
the non-stu$fent spouseB 
not. 
Liz Niehaus explains that the 
· graduate students a:t 
Dame are generally older 
other graduate students 
been able to establish 
She added that the:: 
ethic tends towards 
marriages, particularly in 
fai~ly conservative Catholic 
to Frank Carrico, retired · of Mainte­for the Village who 
a~nrlr~·t1 there for 18 years, all 100 units there are usually filled. "If there aren't people in 'em, they are paying the rent just to hold 'em," he said. Overcrowding at University Vil­lage is a big problem for many on the waiting lists. Enwere Dirke commented: "I applied for housing accomodations at University Village in the sum­mer semester. The; manager tells me the list of waiung students is so long I do not have a chance. Now I live in South Bend where my stipend isn't even enough to pay my rent, not to talk of other expenses." 
SO(:iology graduate, Pat Her­rimann has found the Cripe Street apartments very agree­able: "The rent is reasonable, the apartments are clean and the carpentry is nic. They are small but' there is just enough room.'' Notre Dame bought the Cripe Street apartments, built in 1970, from Portage Realty approximately five years ago. 
''They were kind of bad when we got them; they had bad plumbing and bad closets," says Frank Carrico. He re­placed all of the bathroom fixtures in the apartments, and he checked three times a day to make sure everything was run­ning smoothly. 
Located between the Village apartments and those on Cripe Street is the University Village Center, a house owned by Notre Dame which has been turned in to an all-purpose center by tearing down a wall between the living room and the dining room. Fr. Kevin McGrath, OSB, a Benedictine from Ala­bama working on his doctorate in Theology at Notre Dame, resides there as the married students' chaplain. The center is open to all couples to use and vanous activities including La­vage Childbirth Sesswns, Brownie Scouts meetings, and men's Sunday chess clubs have gone on there. 
''Being a student myself, I know . what it entails, and working with the married stu­dents at University villas.e, I know what family life entails. I find that it's a challenging combination and realize that I'd like to be of whatever help I can to them,'' reflects Father Mc­Grath. 
He does not understand his job to be the same as those who work for Campus Ministry with unmarried students. He deli­berately stays in the back­ground. 
"In a way I've felt that they have been the step-children of the J]niversity --left on their own, yet, they like not being in the middle of things,'' McGrath said. 
He stressed that the families value their independence and that he must, therefore, take a differeint approach with them than if they were on campus. He said that he likes to remind them that he is there to help them by casual encounters. He added, however, that he knew that the villagers would be 
upset if they  did  not  have  a  
chaplain.  
The  Financial  Aid  Office  

deals with a number of Notre Dame's 254 married students. Two-hundred and two are re­ceiving financial aid this semes­ter. Mr. Joseph Russo, Direc­tor of Financial Aid, said in a recent interview: ''I would not reward a married student with a scholarship because he is mar­mied, nor would I take it away." 
Russo stresses that many married students come to the Financial Aid Office solely for advice. He told that he often sits with students just married, and works a budget out for them. 

Married students have dif­ferent tastes in recreation from­those of single students. The Niehauses say that there are few social events set up special­ly for married students. They find they do not fit into the on-campus social atmosphere that involves going to the bars and drinking, or going to par­ties in dormitories in order to meet other singles. 
Another married students a~­reed saying: "Socially, thts University seems to me to be one large keg." 
The managers of the married student apartments will some­times arrange large-scale com­munity activities, but generally the students have small get­togethers among themselves, continued Jim Niehaus. His wife, Liz, remembers only three large social events for married students in their three years as a married couple at Notre Dame: a Summer of '77 village-wide picnic, and the annual Knights of Columbus Easter Egg Hunt and Christmas Tree Lighting. 
Instead of meeting other couples at the bars, many Umversity Villa~e residents meet each other vta their child­ren on the playground behind the apartments. Men and women both make this trip "out back.'' If both spouses are students, they arrange to es­cape having classes at the same time so that one parent can babysit. Yet, if both parents do have classes at the same time, or if one parent works, they are on their own to find baibysitters. 
Nothing has been arranged by the University or by the apart­ment managers. Findiing baby­sitters, perhaps, is one of the married students' biggest prob­lems. 
Like most sirigle undergradu­ates, many married couples enjoy Notre Dame sports. However, some quarrel with administration policy for spouses' football tickets. They hold that since there are so few married undergraduates, the spouses should be able to sit with their partners in the student section. Instead they are given tickets in the end zone with the graduate students. 
Still, the married students 
are not asking to tumble Notre 
Dame's single-oriented social 
atmosphere. Out of 27 inter­
viewed, 20 responded that the 
atmosphere was generally 
agreeable, six responded nega­
tively, and one did not com­
ment. 

They seem to agree 
with the student that: said: 
"Married students have diffi­
culties peculiar to their state, 
but because of his responsibili­
ty to his family, he must make 
certain adjustments io his 
schedule, and omit some of the 
usual campus activities... It 
comes with the territory·.'' 
Oub 

SJ:X>DSOfS 
trip 

Tomorrow, the ND-BB/BS will sponsor a trip to the Chicago Planetarium and Aqua­ri•Im for all interested BB/BS. 
Call Zena Crenshaw (6975) as soon as possible if you plan to attend. 


Roundtrip from Roundtrip
New York from Chicago to Luxembourg to Luxembourg 
No restrictions 
Confirmed reservations • free wine with dinner, cognac after • no restrictions,on stays to I yr. or advance purchase. Prices valid from U.S. from March 10 thru May 14, 1980. All schedules and prices subject to change and government approval. Purchase tickers in the U.S. 
~-------------------­
See your travel agent or write Dept. #CN I lcelandair P.O. Box 105, West Hempstead, NY 11552. Call in NYC, 757-8585; elsewhere, call 800-555-1212 for the toll-free number in your area. 
Please send me: 0 An Icelandair flight timetable. 0 Your European Vacations brochure. Name___________________________________ 
Address-------------------------­City-----------------------------­State----------Zip·--------­

. 
' 

\ ' 1• '.: .../,.. ~. ·' '\ l ~ &-~:·'-~:.~ ~··t \'·.:'?·..··\,; ~; ,;: .l· ~ l . /} ' \'.., • \"' ... t•-l;· •·,-~, :~~~~~t!\!r~7.t~~if:tr:;r,¢-::~~~~;>''~!:~!~•ieQt~~N..iJ'\{i~<s \.,'i;.• '<f{'·· 
1 • ll.<••:·. ... _.."ltm. ,, .~r .• ' .•,,·s". ._ _ .
•_.•\~ •., ~ ·~• •.•., •., 1., • t 1 •.•.• l-tof f t •,•,•.• ••• , ..,.,.,• 1 .. I • ~. • io'!'"' -A~.-· 
11 
111 

-1 
----------------------~-----------------------------------~------' 


The Observer Friday, March 21, 1980-page 6 
A.C.S. revises reconunendations for routine tnedical tests 

NEW YORK (AP) -With evidence mounting that early detection does no ~ood in lung cancer, the Amencan Cancer Society said yesterday it no longer recommends routine an­nual chest x-rays for heavy smokers. 
The society also revised re­commendations for tests for cancer of the cervix, colon, rectum and breast after a study by Dr. David Eddy of Stanford University of the cost versus effectiveness of such tests. 
A statement from Dr. Saul Gusberg, the society's national president, said the revisions ''deliver essentially the same health benefit as the previous recommendations at a greatly n;duce~.cost, risk and inconve­nience. 
( 

SUNDAY 
SUnciall. Ma~h 2:!1. at ):OOpm O'Lauflhlin Auditorium. St. Mar~:~'s Col~ Tkkets: $~ fof adults 
$2.50 fof stUde-nts 6 se-nior citi.rens 

Available-at: 
O'L~hlin Auditorium 2&4-4~ 
Ceonturll C.Oteor 2&4-9111 
VISIONS 
&DREAMS 
Inte-rpre-tations of Shakespe-are-
TilE FIREIIRD 

But Gusberg cautioned that they apply only to people who don't have any symptoms of cancer. People with symptoms should see a doctor immediate­ly, he said. 
For lung cancer, the society dropped a recommendation that peoJ?Ie with a higher-than­normal nsk get an annual chest x-ray. "High-risk" persons were those over age 40 who are heavy smokers or work with known carcinogens like asbes­tos. 
Eddy's study concluded that tests for lung cancer, which include chest x-rays and spu­tum cytology, a test based on mucus from the lungs, do indeed detect the disease· at an early stage. But he said lung cancer is so hard to cure that "there actually is evidence from a half-dozen studies that such early detection does not reduce mortality.'' 
Besides, Eddy said, x-rays themselves carry a smaJJ health risk, and there is "serious risk'' of wasted time and money when tests are ''false­positive," that is, they indicate a cancer where none exists. 
In other revisions, the society: 
Dropped a recommendation for an annual Pap smear to detect cervical cancer, recom­mending instead a Pap smear every three years for women aged 20 to 65 and those under 20 who are sexually active. 
Dropped a recommendation that men and women over 40 get annual tests for blood in the stool and an annual exam with a proctosigmoidoscope, an instrument that looks for can­cer of the colon and rectum. 
Strengthened its recommen­dations for the use of x-rays to detect breast cancer. The soci­ety previou-1y urged routine annual mammograms for wo­men over 50, those over 40 wi:h a family history of breast cancer, and those over 3 5 with a personal history of breast cancer. 


Helection were held today, Harris poll predicts Fordthe winner 
NEW YORK (AP) -A new ABC News -Lou Harris poJJ: says former President Gerald Ford would defeat President Carter if the 1980 presidential election were held today. 
In addition, the poll said Ford may now be a slight favorite over Ronald ReaBan among Republicans and mdependent vote~s f~r the GOP presidential nommanon. 
The poJJ was taken last week and completed before the final results of Saturday's South Carolina primary were known. Reagan won that GOP primary so decisively that the second­place finisher ] ohn ConnaJJy dropped out of the race yester­day. 
The poJJ said Ford would get 54 percent of the vote to Carter's 44 percent if the November general election were held now. Two percent of the registered voters inter­viewed were not sure. 
But Carter would defeat Rea­gan by a 58-40 margin, the same poJJ showed. Two percent were not sure. 

Republican and independent voters in the poll were asked for their choice for the GOP presi­dential nominee. 
Ford was named by 33 per­cent and Reagan by 27 percent. 
Because of the sampling error margin involved in these figures -ABC -Harris polls generally have error margins of about 6 percentage points ei-­ther way -one can only say that Ford and Reagan split the vote, with Ford perhaps slightly a­head. 
A surprising finding of the poll was that Rep. John Ander­son, R-Ill. was the choice of 15 percent of the GOP-independ­ent group. That put him in a virtual tie with Georse Bush, who received the backmg of 14 percent. 
Others received 7 percent. Four percent of the voters polled were not sure. 
Those results compare to a ABC-Harris poll taken in No­vember 1979 which showed Ford with 25 percent, Reagan
• 
30 percent, Bush 6 percent, Anderson 2 percent and other candidates 25Jercent. Twelve percent name no one or were not sure. 
The number of voters polled was not available from the pollster. 
John Pinter 

assumes WSNDduties 
] ohn Pinter, a junior from Evanston, Illinois has ,elected news director to AM-FM for the coming .demic year. A resident Keenan hall, Pinter will """'"m'"" his newsroom duties spring break. 
Pinter replaces senior, Cathy Murray position . 

SPOTliGHT PSYCHOLOGY--13/ast paced and exciting quarter-hourfeatures ofuseful and interesting information which everJ individual should have. 
1 1'1. ~~·,,t ..., 1.., a first in its effort to enhance public awareness of recent develop~ents in the , ;, ,,, , · .tnd pr<Hl i1.:<: uf psychology and of the potential impact of research findmgs on the ,: , : 1.. ~.•.., •>I u-., all. This wed·'s topic is: 
WE CAN WORK IT OUT -probes the concept ofthe ''quality ofwork /if~ -· andfinds that in the United States ~atisfaction w_ith the job is bec~ming as important as material rewardsQ11:. the;ob. lnnovattons such asjlexttme, worker education programs and job sharing are part ofthis new trend . 
•1· ,.,; 1 atMidni hrorTuesda everiin at11:45 
"JESUS CHRIST IS LORD" March 23. Fr. Michael Mccafferty, CSC 
SUnday Vespers 7:15pm Sacred Heart Church Lady Chapel 
' .,. ~ • ._. • ~ ...... ' : I '• •• < ' '
' .. 

The Observ1er Friday, March 21, 1980-page 7 
Supre1ne Court rules cotnpanies liable in DES controversy 
SAN FRANCISCO (AP) -Any Superior courts in Los. An~e­company marketing a drug that les and Ventura Counties dis-could cause cancer in the missed the class actions but a daughters of women who took Court of A_r.peal reinstated the drug may be liable even them in Apnl 1978 and the though their product was not defendants, Abbott Laborato­involved. The California Su-ries, Rexall Drug Co., Eli Lilly pre me Court ruled yesterday. and Co., E.R. Squibb and Sons 
The 4-3 decision, written by and the Upjohn Co., appealed Justice Stanley Mosk, could to the state high court. affect not only the 200 drug The court's decision means firms which made or marketed the cases now will be returned diethylstibestrol (DES), a syn-for trial to determine if the thetic compound of the female women can prove their allega­hormone estrogen, but possibly tions. other firms involved with drugs The plaintiffs claim berween which may have caused similar 1941 and 1971 the defendants injuries. produced and sold DES which 
Attorneys for Judith Sindell, may cause cancerous vaginal 29, Los Angeles, and Maureen and cervical growths. The can-Rogers, 27, Fontana, had argu-cer, adencarcinoma, manifests ed the companies "knew DES itself after a latent period of 10 was carcinogenic and harmful, or 12 years. It is a fast but still marketed the product spreading and deadly disease in a crass desire for money. . which requires surgery. 
" DES also causes adenosis ­
The women alleged they de-precancerous vaginal and cer­veloped precancerous and can-vix growths. cerous tumors as a result of The suit contended defendants DES their mothe~rs used to were negligent because "they prevent miscarriages. Mrs. knew or should have known" Sindell sued for $11 million and DES was carcinogenic and that Mrs. Rogers for an unspecified it :was il_leffective in preventing amount. mtscarnages. 
At Three 1\llie Island 
Leak poses :no threat 
MIDDLETOWN, Pa. (AP) ­Technicians worked to find and plug a leak causing a ~light 10crease in radiation inside t~1e Three Mile Island nuclear po­wer plant's auxiliary buildmg yesterday. Officials said it pos­ed no health threat. 
Officials suspected the air­borne radioactive particles came from a small water leak in a pump system th<JLt adds water to the plant's primary reactor 
Economics sponsors lectures 
The Department of Econo­
mics is spo~soring a pair of 
lectures g1ven by Gar 
Alperovitz, co-director of the 
National Center for Economic 
Alternatives. 
The first lecture _entitled 
' 'Inflation, Basic Necessities & 
the Distribution of Economic 
Power" is scheduled for 4:15 
p.m. Monday in room 122 of Hayes-Healy. 
"Community as a Funda­mental Economic Strategy,'' the second talk, will be held at 8 p.m. Wednesday in the Galvin Life Science Audito-· rium. 
~lpero~itz enjoys a .distin­gmshed hst of academ1c ere­dentials. In addition, he has authored several a:rticles which have appeared in the New York Times and the Washington Star. He has also authored several books. 
Alperovitz has been quite active with labor groups. He has served as Legislative direc­tor in both the U:S. House of Representatives and the Sen­ate, and is also the former president of the Cambridge Institute. 
At present, from his Wash­ington based office, he analy­zes economic policies and offers proposals for restruc­turing the American economy. 
cooling system. 
The plant has been out of operation since it was damaged on March 28, 1979, when the rec. -.r lost cooling water and overhc...~ed in the worst acci­dnet in the history of U.S. commercial nuclear power plants. 
Monitors inside the building, which adjoins the giant reactor containment building, first de­tected the increase at 1 a.m. yesterday. 
Although plant operations theorized an extremely low amount of radioactivity escaped into the air, it could not be detected on sensitive monitors in the building's ventilation system. 
"The main thing is we're not seeing any changes on our outside monitors. We know something is going out, but we can't detect it," said plant spokesman Sandy Polon. 
"It's a very small leak. We've not seen any release that would exceed limits," said John Col­!ins, chief of operations at the site for the U.S. Nuclear Regu­latory Commission. 
Plant officials would not spe­culate on the type of radioactive material. However, Collins said it may have been particles of radioactive cesium released when the leaking water eva­porated. News of the leak came after 
~ hundreds .of a~gry residents, 
· som~ vvavmg stgns and a few weanng gas masks, vented their fears over a porposal to purge radioactive gases as a way to speed the cleanup of the badly contaminated plant. Thomas Geruskey, head of state Department. of Environ­tal Resources,_ satd the state favors t~e ven~10g plan because leaks wtll conunue at the plant until it is cleaned up. "Even though they may be small, . there may be _greater ones 10 the future 10 bad w_eather conditions, giyins . htgher exl?osures to the 10d1v1­duals offstte than a controlled venting situation would,'' he said. 

The drug companies argued there was no basis for legal action because the women could not identify the manufac­turers of the drug their mo­thers took. 
The decision, joined in by Chief Justice Rose Bird, Jus­ticeFrankNewmanandJustice Pro Tern Clinton White, agreed liability generally depended on proving injuries were caused by the defendant. 
But it said there were excep­tions, adding ''berween an innocent pllaintiff and negligent defendants the latter should bear the cost of the injury." 
The decision said that ad­vances in science and techno­logy create goods which may harm consuHJers and cannot be traced to any producer. 
''The response of the courts can be either to adhere rigidly to prior doctrine, denying reco­very to those injured by such products, or to fashion rem~­dies to meet these changing needs," the court added. 
The dissent by Justice Frank Richardson, joined by Justices William Clark and Wiley Man­uel, said the decision was unwise because the "ramifica­tions seem almost limitless." 
The majo:rity, the dissent ad­ded, "effectively makes the entire drug industry, or at least its California members, an insurer of all injuries attributa­ble to defective drugs of uncer­tain or unprovable origin, in­cluding those injuries manifest­ing themselves a generation later...'' 
.. .13udget 
[continuedfrom page 1] 
By voice vote yesterday, the House Budget Committee ap­proved the recommendation to cut $836 million by ending Saturday mail deliveries and reducing subsidies for bulk mail. 
The pand's vote does not mean Saturday mail deliveries will definitely end, however. Even if approved by the full 
Congress, the proposal could be 
averted if the U.S. Postal Service raised rates or made other cuts to achieve the sav­mgs. 
Rep. Jim Mattos, D-Texas, said the Saturday mail proposal might also be defeated when it reaches the House floor and suggested the committee sim­ply recommend an $836 million postal cut without mentioning Saturday deliveries. 
Meanwhile, Rep. James M. Hanley, D-N.Y., chairman of the House Post Office Commit­tee, attacked the proposal to end Saturday deliveries, saying such a move "would not serve the America~ people well." 
The budfret committee also recommen<led saving $100 mil­lion through elimination of the 
Law Enforcement Assistance Administration, which has pro­vided grants to local police departments for research and equipment since 1968. The LEA.A proposal brought the first sharp clash berween Giaimo and committee liberals as Rep. Elilzabeth Holtzman, D­N.Y., denounced the cut as "gratuitous." Democratic liberals openly threatened to break with Giai­mo in a dispute over a proposed $50 million cut in the $321 million legal aid .... program. 
APPLICATIONS NOW AVAILABLE FOR: 
STUDENT GOVT. CABINET POSITIONS 
Pi!Ck up applications from S.G. Secretary, 2nd floor ofLa •F'ortune 
Applications due by ·thurs. march 27th 

$1.00 Carroll Hall (SMC) 

EGETGROSS! 

UD VOLLEYBALL REGISTRATION Sun.l3r·d from 1-3 LAFORTUNE BALLROOM 

-rosters should include players and captians name and pho111e FREE least 6 -no more than 8on a, team 
-may be on only one team 
COME EARL\' LIMITED REGISTRAliON 
questions call3l74 


Job includes processing orders, 
se1iupllayout work, 
and generel·office duties. 
1rlll begin training now. Apply 1·8 in person,Lafortune buement 
Questions ?? Call 7047tltr Diane at 799 

Friday, March 21, 1980-page 8
Editorials 
Setting oilprices 
Art Buchwald 

Kirk Brandfass 
WASHINGTON-A lot of peo­side when he comes back by the phtase, '.'havens of ple are starting to get suspi­adding 2 cents a · gallon to !Jetideoess,.. scornfully noted cious that the price of gasoltne diesel fuel. We'll call it the m Ms. Catanzarite's letter, and oil in this country bears no Burnside Raise.'' c{}uld ··properly apply only to relation to what is really going "It's done." .those who would both assist the on in the OPEC countries. "I have a joke. If you guys mother and defend the life of 
This, of course, is not true. laugh, you have to promtse the innocent child. l should The oil companies have a very to up motor oil 5 cents a tank .'' thi.!lk it self-evident that such a scientific method of computing "Okay, Kelly. But if anyone pbta$e. could, never be a{>pliedfuel costs and are extremely has heard it, you only get a to those who would intentional· careful in justifying every price 2-cent raise." lr.(leP.tive that inoocentchild of increase in thetr fuel. "It's a deal. Guy goes into a . h1s life; Jor whatever the rea• 
This is how one oil company doctor and the doctor says, · son. Professional assistance for does it, and I'm sure the others 'you're very sick . I'm going · vktirns of rape or incest is follow similar suidelines. to have to operate.' The guy mandatory but one should .re· 
Every mormng at exactly 9 says, 'I want a second opinion.' ali.ze that this assistance is for 
a.m. the "Executive Com­So the doctor says, 'Okay, the benefit of bOth mother and mittee for Price Raises·' meets you're ugly too." child; ' in the private dining room for Everyone slaps their thighs 
The· child in these situations
breakfast. and Kelly gets the 5-cent has committed no wrong; he isA typical session goes like increase. 
the valuable and innocent result 
this: "Say, did we put up the of an admittedly reprehensibleThere are 12 men in the price of airline fuel when the act. Those who would allow
l 
room laughing and joking. U.S. Olympic hockey teambeat abortion in cases of rape orHalberstam walks in ·and the Sovtets?'' 
t incest must produce an answer
Middlecoffsays, "You're late.' "Yeh, I think we did by 20
l for the soul-searching question, 
"Sorry about that," Halber­cents a gallon ... " "how can one legitimate thestam says, ''I just had a new "Well, I don't know about takin¥ of an innocent child's
grandchild.'' · you guys, but I think those kids life?' I know of no noble or''Congratulations, This calls played one helluva game, and I morally acceptable answer ·tofor a celebration. What do you belteve we should add another this qv,estion. Surely sympathy say, gentiemen, in honor of 5 cents to show those Russians in for the mother's mental distress Halberstam's new grandchild, what this ,:ountry is really all ~ncest is, agam; . · cannot be accepted as an ex­we raise the price of regular about." 
clearly. wrong. >. / •.. •·············.•.. cuse· for taking the lif~ of angasoline by 1 cent?" "You won't get any resis­The Church does allow .medi: 
innocent child. To accept such 
"Since it's his first grand­tance from us. " cal ope,racions to ~ave theJ o£ an answer, and to follow it to its child, I say we should raise it 2 "We're moving right along.' the mother even if s1lch logical conclusion, would allow 
cents.'' "I wish we could figure out tioos result in the death the >l...\O ...U;O;UJ.f.>. the severe degree abortion whenever the mother
"No objections. So, done." one more reason to boost the fe~~· . However, hy d. .~oitioo which can result would allege that she is suffer·"That's damn decent of you. price at the gas pumps this thts 1s not an abot!:ton beca:v,se of.tape or incest, ing mental distress. This would Wait until I tell Ella, she'll be morning. Don't forget Monday thereis no intent to take the life response is compre­clearly result in the raking of athrilled. Where's Walker?." is a holiday and we won't be of the unborn child. Abdttion, ••. professional assis-virtually unlimited number of
"Walker's in the hospital meeting until Tuesday." P[ de~nition, i~ for t.he. ...•.pu.··.wose..· . · the Vi<:t'i.nl· This I hope that we
innocent lives.
with a kidney stone. We're "Hey, look out the· window, o takmg the life of an uriborn •. . · ..·•. •·• . ·lay~$ bare ~$ f~lse the would all find that spectre to bepraying he passes it.'' everybody. There's a red child. Therefore, when we ~ft"heard, u:res£?12nstble accusa­an abominable insult to hu­
''Maybe we should send him robin--the first one I've seen understand the terms involved, twn that pro•life people are manity, a morally unconscion·
flowers.'' this year. " it . becomes cleat that the insen$iti\'e to the. plight of the 

able situation. 
"We thought we'd ro:.ise the "That's good luck. What do Church does not :allow.:aborcions mother... price of heating oil 3 cents. you say we add 3 cents on That would do more for his unleaded super premium in morale than flowers.'' honor of ] eremy seeing his 
"Great idea. Where's Burn­first red robin? All in favor say 
A coach UJith tnoral substance 
side?" aye. Opposed? The ayes have 
"He's in New York getting it. Well, it looks like we've the Advertising Man of the had a good morning.'' Colman McCarthyYear Award for his brilliant ' 'Hey, we forgot the natural commercials proving the Wind­gas division.". WASHINGTON--A subver­the company of a few inspired not merely for school. I decided 
fall Oil Co. makes less profits "Didn't we give them a 5 sive is loose on the American coaches I had in high school. then to stay with both. Refuge
than the Public Television Net­percent increase last Friday?'' sporting scene. He is Morgan Like Wootten, my coaches would be needr>ri. work.'' "Yeh, but that was just to Wootten, the nationally known were men of double disciplines. James Thurber had the 
"Hey, let's surprise Burn-tide them over the weekend." basketball coach at De Macha The man who taught me whimsical view that 95 percent Catholic high school in Hyatts­basketball also taught wood­of American males dream at ville, Md. His charges have working. The latter was de­night that they are on the slam-dunked their way to so rided by the strai~ht-A contin­mound at Yankee Stadium many victories over the years gent as a baby-sittmg course for striking out all the great slug­
(649 wins, 92 losses since 1956) the basketball goons. I almost gers. I must be in the other five that a few weeks ago a search thought so myself, until years percent, because when I dream 
committee from North Carolina later I read an essay by Willa about sports it isn't Babe Ruth State offered Wootten a five­Cather: ''If I could get a or Reggie Jackson who appear, year, $700,000 contract. carpenter to make me some but my old coaches on the 
Keep searching, Wootten good bookcases, I would have sidelines. cold them. Although flattered as much respect for him as I Except that they weren't on that his winning ways were have .for the people whose the sidelines, any more than worth that much to the educa­books I want to put on them. Coach Wootten of H yatesville is tors of North Carolina, Wootten Making something well is the marginal in the lives of his high 
kept his head when the principal end of education." school kids. My coaches had $700,000 was dangled before My basketball coach had said gone beyond the single and 
him. The trouble was, his head the same, whether we were ftxed idea that the sports world had yet to be filled with the idea practicing the fast break or the is the only world, with citizen­that Big Money equaled the Big art of the coping saw. ship limited to the talented. 
Dream. My golf coach in high school Life, too, these men taught, is 
A 
Instead, it contained dif­was also my English teacher. also about carpentry, literature ferent thoughts, including some For him, reading and golf were and long walks over warm he developed in his other work contemplative acts. Both were grass. at De Matha, teaching history. ruined by noise and speed. Coach Wootten's ideas about "I have always told my history Literature and golf --personal God, family and education students and basketball play­and soft experiences --could be might be no more than reaction­ers," he explained to reporters, refuges from life's harshness. ary platitudes had they come "that their top priorities in life Golf is put down by those from, say, a professional or 

should be God, family and who think it is the sport of even a college coach. By then, education --in that order. big-bellied capitalists. The fat the athletes have mostly been Money was never included and rich do indeed play the game, conditioned. Their individuali· 
never has been the primary but my high school coach had ty has been submerged beneath factor in my definition of happi­nothing to pick from but a few the pressures to win, be rich ness for myself and my skinny kids who learned the joy and be famous. 
family.'' of the sport as caddies. In high school, this fairy-tale The promoters and profiteers ''Golf is a lifetime recrea­grandeur can be put in perspec­in American sports will have to tion," he would say, "not just a tive by a coach who has moral
t L 
mu.z.zle this infidel accordingly youth-time game." And then substance. Then when his own 
for such heresies .. But for me, m En~lish class, he would insist temptation comes, he knows 
Wootten from Hyattsville joins that hterarure was also for life. what to treasure. 


• 

The Observer -Editorials . Friday,March21, 1980-page9 
P. 0. Box Q 

The Truth in the scriptures Dear Editor: From his comments in the March 10 issue of The Obser­ver, it seems that Bill Toohey is absolutely certain that Jesus was a pacifist and ''totally rejected violence,'' just as the Christian theologians alre also absolutely certain that the term "resurrection from the dead' is not a reference to a monotheis­tic doctrine of reincarnation. Approxiamtely two years ago a letter appeared in The Obser­ver in whtch I challenged the chairman of the department of theology and any other theolo­gian at Notre Dame to a public debate on the meaning of the · term "resurrection of the dead." I am now challenging Bill Toohey or any other theo­logian at Notre Dame to a public debate on whetherJesus ''totally rejected violence.'' Of course, I do not expect a reply to this challenge any more than I expected a reply to my first challenge. People who claim to understand th(: scrip­tures but who do not, in fact, understand the scriptures, tend to avoid those situations which either make their lack of under­standing more widely known or tend to mcrease, unnecessarily the risk of unemployment. An investigation of the Tmths in the scriptures is, aft•er all, entertainment at its best, just so long as the individual makes certain thay any of those Truths do not interfere with how one makes a living. Michat•l Cecil  3) One week before the election in Illinois, the Chicago Sun-Times poll showed Alder­son leadingReagan, 39-31. The Tn"bune had Anderson ahead by a 33-31 margin. Again, the results indicated otherwise, as Reagan carried Anderson's home state with a comfortable 48-37 percent victory. The much heralded crossover vote did vote 47 percent for Ander­son. ~hat has been ignored, however, is that Reagan won 40 percent of the Democrat and Independent voters, according to NBC News. The point of these examples is to illustrate that which should • now be obvious, i.e. that the polls mean nothing when it comes to the election. The polls always seem to show Reagan in bad shape until he begins his campai~n in each state, at which ttme his popularity soars. Those who claim that Reagan in unelectable ignore a number of significant facts. First, they ignore the fact that .Reagan is the best campaigner in politics today. They also fail to note that Reagan won the governor­ship twice by an average of 750,000 votes in California, where Democrats outnumbered Republicans 2-1. Finally, they ignore the fact that Reagan has a huge target to run against, James Earl Carter. Never in American history has the office of President been occupied by a man of such incompetence. The possibility of his reelection is truly frightful. So let's be realistic. If we are going to talk about electability, let's talk about ·the facts. Governor Reagan is electable. Reagan can, must, and will be elected our next President.  operation. The Observer infers that the student representatives are incompetent, calling for "a wider student representation" in order to get "more imagina­tive and meaningful student commentary on campus life.'' And, yet, the main source of information on campus issues, The Observer, does not even send a reporter to most of the meetings. I agree that there are some problems with the present com­position and lack of power of the CLC, but at this point there does not seem to be a. good alternative available. There has been discussion, in the CLC, about possible changes in its composition, but the consen­sus, thus far, is that the present structure is the most represen­tative. I disa,gree with The Observer's claim that the CLC "can no longer be taken seri­ously" and that it is "useless." I think most CLC members would agree that we have done some very positive things this year. Before it criticizes the CLC for being irresponsible, I think The Observer should assume a little responsibility itself. If they come to the CLC meetings and learn, firsthand, how it operates, then maybe they will be justified in their future opimons of it. Until then, I think it is unfair for The Observer to influence student opinion on a very important topic. Mi~hael P. Sexton Services thank NDcorrununity  Molinelli 'dead' toour community Dear Editor: I am writing in response to the letter by B. P. Goyer concerning Michael Molinelli, the author of "Molarity." First, I would like to express my conviction that the stnp is still 'being composed by Mr. Moli­nelli. I have examined the writing carefully and have dis­covered that it is indeed that of the cartoonist himself. To address the claims which Goyer appeals to in order to support the theory that Mr. Molinelli is deceased and there­fore could not be the author of the strip any longer, I wish to make public the fact that I have been tn con~act with the car­toonist and have in my posses­sion a postcard that was sent to me by the allegedly late Michael Molinelli himself. He is, as has been announced in The Observer several times, abroad this year with the Notre Dame Architect Rome Pro­gram. The postcard to which I refer has a ptcture of a statue of the Madonna di Monte Alfeo. Mr. Molinelli relates in his note on the back of the card that this statue sits on top of the mountain where his family comes from. Mr. Molinelli is far from being physically dead: he is in bell' Italia, searching for his roots. I do concede that there have been some very cryptic symbols in "Molarity" lately. Indeed, upon examtning more closely the strip referred to in Goyer's  mentioned. In the last panel, just above the author's signa­ture appears on a sweatshirt the message "Bye Notre Dame." In today's cartoon, there are a couple of other clues which seem to indicate that Mr. Molinelli has met with some cruel fate. In tne first panel, Jim Mole appears to be holding a skull; in the last panel, on the desk are the words, "I was. " To most people this would seem to be a clear indication that Mike is no longer among the living. However, it is my belief that these clues are not to be taken in their literal sense. As one who has spent a year abroad, I know that among students who spend time away from their horne campus there is often the feeling of being ''dead'' to friends on the home campus. Very few friends find the time to keep their promise to write to those abroad. It is my contention that Mr. Moli­nelli feels dead in this very way. He must be employing his comic strip to lament the fact that he hears nothing from the people for whom he writes "Molarity." I propose therefore that we, the students ofNotre Dame and Saint Mary's, do everything in our power to resurrect Michael Mollinelli from his "death" to our community. Let us deluge him with letters. In fact, why don't we attempt to make this a universal resurrection and write to all those friends abroad to whom we made promises to write? Michael Molinelli's address this year is: Via Monterone, 76 00186 Roma, ITALIA Timothy M. Hayes  ·  - l ) {/ '  
Reagan electable  Gregory S. Folley  Editor's Note: The following letter was sent to Fr. Hesburgh  letter, I find one  that was not  
as acandidate  In defense  by Fr. Edwin Brodenck, execu­tive director of the Catholic ReliefServices.  Doonesbury  by Garry Trudeau  
Dear Editor:  oftheCLC  Dear Fr. Hesburgh:  
 7HfR& H6 60ES A641N.  
Perhaps the most frequently cited poll of the past few weeks has been one pittin~; Gov. Ronald Reagan vs. President Carter in a general ekction. Carter leads Reagan in this poll, 58-40. This survey has Incessantly been cited as gospel proof that Reagan canno1: win in November against Carter by such people as John Anderson, NBC, CB.S, and ABC. I think it is very important that we keep our perspective on this poll, con­cermng which, a few oibserva­tions should be made. 1) In New Hampshire, the Boston Globe Joll of voters indicated a dea heat betWeen Ronald Reagan and Geor~e Bush. The results wen~ qutte different: Reagan 50 percent, Bush 23 percent.  Dear Editor: As a member of the Campus Life Council, a ~roup under considerable critictsm of late, I read with interest the recent articles in The Obsen;er abouc it. I think that Fr. Richard Conyers and Paul Riehle have brought out some of the impor­tant problems concerning the keg proposal, and the CLC in general. They have raised some of the weaknesses in­herent in the CLC which, of late, have led to some disap­pointing results for myself and others. ~ith one of the articles, however, I have some personal objections. That article is an editorial written by The Obser­ver (March 14). In the editorial, The Observer claims that "the  Hardly a month goes by that we are acknowledging a gift from the Notre Dame Commu­nity. Donations come to us from students, faculty and alumni. Letters telling us of their efforts on our behalf have been received from the Campus Ministry, Third ~orld Relief Fund, Cambodia response, Holy Cross Fathers and Bro­thers and the 'World Hunger Coalition. (I just hope I have not left out anyone.) In every case, their efforts were to both raise funds and, more impor­tant, to raise the conscious level of awareness. Needless to say, this over­whelming response of your good people has certainly been an inspiration to all ofus here at CRS. I am indebted to them for their. generosity and great com­ '  11/e'V!f t30T 70 {£[HIM 7/) STOP TAL.I(ING IN 7HI3 flf5T PERSON PL:JRAL-. \ HURRY! H£'5 STAIWN670 MIX7H£M. I  
2) In the People's Republic of Massachusetts, not exactly Reagan's strongest area, another Boston Globe poll taken one month before the dection showed Bush over Reagan by a 61-16 margin. Reagan came within two percent of winning  CLC can no longer be taken seriously as an advisory body,'' and several other charges. I wonder where The Observer gets its justification for ma~ing these requests. It seems trre­sponsible to me that The Observer would have such  passton. There are times when a mere ''thank you for. everything"' seems to be quite inadequate. This is one of them, but I am sure you know the depth of my appreciation and that of the CRS family.  
in the state which McGovern in 1972.  went  for  harsh criticism of tht-t..::LC when it actually knows little about its  Rev. Edwin B. Broderick  

administration of either institution. 
Editorial Board and Department Managers 
The news is reported as accurately and 
-The ObSE~er­
as objectively as possible. Editorials Editor-in-chief ....... .Rosemary Mills Sports Editor ...... ............ Mark Perry represent the opinton of a majority of Managing Editor.......... Diane ~ilson Features Editor .... .Kathleen Connelly Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 the Editorial Board. Commentaries, Editonal Editor.............. Ann Gales Photo Editor .. ............ Doug Christian opinions and letters are the views of Senior Copy Editor......... M. Onufrak 
The Observer is an independent their authors. Column space is avail­Executive News Editor .. .... Mike Lewis Business Manager ....... .Steve Odland newspaper published b)' the students able to all members of the community, News Editor.................... Mark Rust Production Manager .... ] ohn McGrath ofthe University of Notre Dame du lac and the free expression of varying News Editor ................. Mike Shields Advertising Manager .... M. Holsinger and Saint Mary's Colleg:e. It does not opinions on campus, through letters, is SMC News Editor ........Margie Brassll Controller................. .Kevin Manion necessarily reflect the 1)()licies of the encouraged. Circulation Manager ...... Greg Hedges 
I • I ' ~ I ) t ) ) I 

I I >.J .l ~ .: ' I # ~ .J. .. I ,l .J ~ ~ ~ I 1-~ 
Friday, March 21, 1980-page 10 

O'Hanlon's: ND's best kept secret 
by Chn's Needles Sports Writer with 17 points, is competing against the varsitysquads from such institutions as Purdue, Michigan, Northwestern, Ball
They are not university-sponsored, not even as one of STATE* AND Miami of Ohio. Now that's progress!
those "minor sports" we hear so much about. They don't "Well, there was just a bunch of us that wanted to playeven enjoy club status. Nonetheless, O'Hanlon's Notre competitively on the collegiate level,'' says team memberDame Men's Volleyball team is currently in first place in the ­Bill Strotman. "We got together, and thanks to Mr.
Western Division of the Midwest Intercollegiate Volleyball O'Hanlon, we are where we are today."
Association (MIVA). The trouble is--they are the best kept Obviously these guys have more than just a passingsecret on campus since Dan Devine's "blue-to-green" in_ten;st in the game of ~C!lleyball. Most of us are satisfi_edscheme for the 1977 Southern Cal game. 
· w1th intramural competmon and, of course, all of us enJOYLast year, a group of 20 volleyball fanatics got together to p!ayi~g it on t~e beache~ in the summer with thosesee if they could organize a team and, if possible, play ~1kim-c~ad beauties. But 0 H~nlon's squad wanted just aintercollegiately. Thanks to the sponsorship of Mr. ] ohn little btt more, so they actively pursued the minuteO'Hanlon,Jroprietor of O'Hanlon's Warehouse Liquors of possibility of varsity competition with other universities.
South Ben , and a $300 grant from student ~overnment, And the rest, as they say, is history.
their dream became a reality. Now, the squad, m first place 
As one examines the team roster, there is one name that catches the eye right away. That name is Kevin Hawkins, whom we all know and love as one of the "walk-ons" on Digger Phelps' basketball team. Hawkins, a junior from Los Angeles, also just happens to be the tallest member of the volleyball team at 6-5. He uses that superior height and his incredible leaping ability to his advantage on the volleyball court, and is a valuable asset to the squad. 
But, of course, he cannot do it alone. Although the members of the rest of the squad do not enjoy the notoriety that Hawkins possesses, they are just as valuable to the squad. There is that often-heard-of blend of youth and experience present, with one law student, two seniors, five juniors, one sophomore, and two newly-recruited freshmen comprising the eleven member team. 
O'Harlon's team is predominantly a tall squad, with six of its players standing at least 6-2. Freshman Barry Smith, who hails from Lancaster, NY, stands at 6-4. Team captain 
1 Dennis Regan (a junior from Newport Beach, Calif.), 
· ~rs~-year law student John Klebba (Des Moines, Iowa), JUmor AI Schumacher (South Holland, Ill.), and senior Gary Metzler (Grand Rapids, Mich.) all stand at 6-2, providing a formidable sight for the oppostiton. Senior Tom Meaney (6-1) and sophomoreJohn P1erce (6-0), though they lack the size of the others, are very adequate performers nonetheless. 
But volleyball is not just a game for the skyscrapers to show off their spiking skills. There is a place in the game of yoll_eyball for the "littlt: man", and 5-9 Brent Beutter (a 
JUmor from nearby Mtshawaka), 5-10 Clark Gibson (a freshman from Torrance, Calif.), and 5-11 Bill Strotman (a 
MEN'S

junior from Park Ridge, Ill.) fill that role admirably. 
Besides clinching the Western Division of the MIVA with 17 points, the ND squad owns among its accomplishments a second place finish in the recent Indiana State Champion­ships at Ball State University. The squad defeated teams 
East Coast Arts B. 
Bel-Air LaFaystte 
Elkart O'Hanlon's 
from Earlham Colege, Indiana-Purdue at Fort Wayne, and 
Purdue before falling to the host Cardinals, who just happen 
lndla:~apolis-RTI

Valparaiso Western Michigan VBC
[continued on page 11] 
Macatawa BLUE WAVE
Blue Wave, NDco-sJX>nsor USVBAtourney NAME HT. YR. HOMETOWN ELLEN HOVE 5-10 So. Mishawaka, Ind. 
the same level but the ages vary.'' a national reputation in volleyball.'' 
MARYBETH BRENNAN 5-8 So. Oaklawn, Ill. by Beth H11f/r.~an Murphy, also the h~ad coach.of Saint Not to be excluded from the favored 
PAT ZANOLLI 5-8 Fr. Oak Ridge, Tenn. MARIANNE VIOLA 5-10 Fr. Park Ridge, Ill.
Women's Sports Editor Mary's varsity volleyball team, found­teams according to Murphy are those 
PEGGY PIESCHEL 5-6 Fr. Springfield, Minn.
ed the Blue Wave this year to keep her from St. Charles, Ball State and 
AMY MORRI!> 5-4 So. San Francisco, Calli. Sarurday Angela Athletic Facility players in the volleyball swing of Chicago. 
ALISA LUBER 5-6 Fr. Fayetteville, N. Y. (AAF) and Clay High School will be things. The club practices three days a In the men's. division the Blue 
MAURA KAHN 5-9 Fr. Madison, Ind. Wave's mentor expects the clubs from 
MARYBETH HOSINSKI 5-8 So. Mishawaka, Ind. 
me site of a United States Volleyball week and conditions two days besides 
Association (USVBA) power play tou•­nament cohos ted by the Blue Wave and O'Hanlon's volleyball dubs. The invit­ational has been alternately billed as the ND-SMC Invitational, the SMC­ND Invitational and the second-annual Golden Dome Invitational. Without the harping over who gets top bi:Iing the two campus volleyball groups join a l6-team field in Saturday's competi­tion of power play. 
"Power denotes a higher level of plar. It means not recreational volley­hal . " says Erin Murphy, head coach of the Blue Wave. "Volleyball has progressed so much that there is a need for distinction, we don't pat the: ball around like someone in a back­yard.'' 
The Division A tournament, Division A being the second highest level of play sanctioned by the USVBA, is a collection of 26 teams-16 women's and 10 men's-with members repres­enting a broad level of ages, experi­ence and motives. 
' 1There'll be people from all age groups," offers Murphy, a graduate of Lewis Collese. "A couple of clubs will be all-star high school teams like South Bend Turner's, which has girls from Adams, St. Joe's and other area schools. They could beat a college ~aJD. It's interesting that they play at boasting an winning basketball team in the Saint Mary's intramural tournament. 
''Our season is so short, from September to November, that they have to_ play more," says Murphy of her charges. "Next year they would have forgotten everything without playing. It would take a month to get them back to where they had been the previous year." T earns will travel to the competition 
from such sites as St. Charles, Missouri, and Columbus, Ohio. The host teams can thank the USVBA for the tournament's publicity. 
''The tournament is approved by our organization. The USVBA publishes a newsletter with tournaments listed," explains -Murphy, also the assistant athletic director at Saint Mary's. "All 
the  clubs  have  to  do  is  call  fo.r  
information.''  
Murphy  expects  the  host  Blue  

Wave, which placed second at the Kellogg Invitational in January, to be one of the better teams along with a few other talented dubs in the women's division. 
"Valparaiso ought to be good, they are Division II in college and the coach plays on the team," says Murphy. ''Kellogg Community College also has Western Michigan, Indianapolis, Val­paraiso and Notre Dame to be the front runners. 
"You can't rule out Notre Dame as one of the favored," states Murphy. ''They have been winning at a lot of big tournaments lately. •' 
Sarurday' s invitational will begin at 9 a.m. with five pools-three women'£ and two men's-in round robin play. Each club will play all the other teams in its pool two games ending at 11. The record of games won in pool play will boost teams to the semi-finals which begin at 6 p.m. in the AAF. _The semis will be based on the best of three games to 11 points. The championship matches for both men and women will follow the semi-finals as the top two teams clash in the best of three games to 15. 
Individual trophies will be awarded to the members of the winning teams in both the men and women's divisions whil~ the second p~ace clubs will each receive team trophies. 
The tournament means much more to the Blue Wave and O'Hanlon's than another trophy on the wall, according to Murphy. 
"Besides volleyball we have gained valuable experience through traveling and meeting others. We all pi1;ch in and have fun, too." 

Blue Wave-0 'Han~ Angela Athletic Facility Saturday, Man 
MARIAN DILTZ 5-7 Jr. South Bend, Ind. 

-----~-----~-------~--~-~-~----:-:=r-.....,,~ 
-----~-------­
. ~ 


The Observer -Sports Friday,March21, 1980-page 11 
'Enriching experience' 
Erin lVlurphy--player-turned coach 
By Kate Huffman took 15th' place and the 1975 United with the Chicago Rebels Volleyball 
Sports Writer States Volleyball Association nation­Club, one of the most noted teams on als, returning to Chicago with 12th the USVBA tour. In 1976, the Rebels place. took the Illinois State Championship, 
Erin Murphy, after an accomplished Murphy moved from the prep scene the si.x-state USVBA Region VI cham­career as a. volleyball player, selected to the college schedule in 1975. She pionship, going on to take sixth place to channel her skills towards the attended George Williams College in at the USVBA national tournament. helping of others--not so unlike the Downers Grove, Ill., on full academic The squad also took the USA Eastern player-turned coaches Frank Robinson and athletic scholarships. Her skills Zone championships. or Ray Meyer. ' helped the team capture the Illinois While playing with the Rebels, 
Robinson started playing baseball in State Championship and sixth place at Murphy acquired a great deal of the sandlots, broke into the majors the Collegiate Nationals during the volleyball experience on the interna­with Cincinnati and went on to play for '75-76 campaign. tional level. The t·eam was in great the Orioles and Cleveland before In 1976, Murphy transferred to demand to play touring teams. The taking over as manager for the Tribe. Lewis College in]oliet, Ill., where she Rebels traveled around the country Meyer, a standout All-American selec­again received full academic and putting on exhibitions with such teams tion at Notre Dame switched his athletic scholarships. The team took as the Russian men's and Canadian talents to teaching and came up with a 
men's Olympic teams, the U.S. wo­nationally ranked basketball team. men's Olympic team and the]apanese 
Coach of the Blue Wave, Saint women's national team. Mary's club volleyball team, Murphy's ''It used to be that volleyball was career parallels that of the two famous mostly played by older people," men. reflects Murphy, "but because we 
Murphy, a native of Morgan Park, were so young, people wanted to Ill., started playing volleyball for her watch us play." grammar school team. "At first it was just another sport to me,'' says Murphy has nothing but fond me­
Murphy, "like most kids, I played any mories of all ofthe years she has spent sport they could come up With. But in on the volleyball court. "Even with all the eighth grade I had a really of the hard work and long hours we put dedicated coach who really sparked my in, for me, the benefits far outweigh 
interest in volleyball." the work. I can honestly say that I Murphy went on to play for Mother never regretted one minute of the 
McAulley High School in Chicago, workouts, whether it was intramural, where she captained the team her varsity, club, or whatever." senior year. While Murphy was at Like Robinson and Meyer, Murphy Mother McAulley, the team took the has left the court and turned her 
city championship three years in a Erin Murphy attention towards helping other pro­
WOMEN'S South Bend Turners
Bend Ball St2'te
31ue Wave 
LaFayette-gold

11/indy City 
Columbia'alparaiso Complete Athleticlellogg College 

t. Wayne Service & Supply South Bend Turners (2) 
Indianapolis Turners

~ichiana 
LaFayette-blackt. Charles O'HANLON'S 

ME  HT.  YR.  HOMETOWN  
ENT BEUTTER ~G METZLER ~MEANEY  5-9 6-2 6-1  Jr. Sr. Sr.  Mishawaka, Ind. Grand Rapids. Mich. Santa Barbara, Calif.  
SCHUMACHER  6-2  Jr.  South Holland, Ill.  
IN PIERCE IRY SMITH  6-0 6-4  Soph. Fr.  Thousand Oaks, Calif. Lancal;ter, N.Y.  
RK GIBSON  5-10  Fr.  Torrance, Calif.  
N KLEBBA  6-2  Law  Des Moines, Iowa  
'IN· HAWKINS  6-5  Jr.  Los Angeles. Calif.  
. STROTMAN 'NIS REGAN  5-11 6-2  Jr. Jr.  Park Flidge, Ill. Newpt1rt Beach, Calif.  

• t 1 r 1 1 1 • ' • "' 

row. mising players. She is now in her first year as head coach of the St. Mary's
Playing for her high school team second place in the state tournament 
didn't satisfy Murphy's love for volley­that Jear. The following year the volleyball team and the college's club 
ball. She was invited to play for the .squa from Lewis again placed second team, the Blue Wave. 
Morgan Volleyball Club, appropriately in the Illinois tournament. The team Murphy looks on her entire career in 
named after the founder of volleyball, finally triumphed in Murphy's senior sports as an enriching experience. 
"Sports teach you how to get alongWilliam Morgan. Murphy would year, taking first place m the state 
practice up to two hours a day with tournament, placing second in the with people, how to play within rules Mother McAulley's team and then go Midwest Regionals, and finishing that have to be kept, to discipline straight to practice with the club for six:th at nationals. Murphy added yourself, but most importantly to me, anywhere from two to six hours. leadership to her list of credentials, they give you an opportunity to set a 
The hard work payed off for all of captaining the team her last two years goal for yourself and achieve that goal. the members ofthe Morgan Club. The at Lewis. She was also named MVP of Most people don't set goals for club captured the 1974 Prep National the team two of her last three years on themselves but athletes are very lucky 
Championships and the 1975 Junior the..college scene. bec~use we have that opportunity and Olympic title. It also qualified for the During the off season, Murphy it can give a whole new meaning to 1974 AAU nationals, where Morgan's again turned to club play, this time your life. " 
• • • O'Hanlon 's 
[continued from page 10) 
to be ranked 8th in the nation by the NCAA. 
This weekend, the students of Notre Dame will get an 'Opportunity to see their relatively unknown vollyball team in action at Saint Mary's Angela Athletic Facility. The squad will be hosting a tournament, along with SMC's Blue Wave team, featuring ten top-flight men's colle~iate squads and sixteen of the best female teams in the Mtdwest. 
"We should have a good chance of winning the men's tournament," comments Strotman. "We've been playing well lately, with clinching the division tid~ and all that. It ought to be exciting." 
So, now the secret's out. Yes, there is a championship volleyball team on this campus. They call themselves O'Hanlon's Notre Dame volleyball team and they play an exciting brand of volleyball. And they aren't in first place in the MIVA because of Irish Luck either. It just goes to show that, as the saying goes, "where there's a will, there's · a way.'' That 'will', if everything goes as planned, can be traf!-sformed i':lto an MIV A championship and, if possible,national prmrunence. 
-The Observer_ 
Supplement Staff 
Editedby:Beth Huffman Layout by: Tom Schuster 
Contributors:Beth Huffman, KateHuffman, ChrisNeedl£s 
Marybeth Brennan leaps to make the re.turn. 
Photographer: Tim McKeough 
.
r-r r · r •· " -t + ·• .. " ,., ­

' 
J 1,, 1
,, •, • • o, I; I I 
'' 
~. 
I I I I I 
r 
I
' 
I I I I I I I I I I 
I 
I 
r 
~'­
Features 
Friday, March 21, 1980-page 12 
World War IIIGives Warning 
''Black Horse One Zero, Black Horse One Zero, this is Shovel Six. Confi'rming Charlie One's sighting as follows: large armored formation has passed through inter German border Zero Three Zero Five Lulu approxi­mate bn'g~1de in size. lnj,)rm Black Horse Six that Shovel is engaging. Out." 
These are the words that open Gen. Sir .John Hackett's chilling fictional history, The Third World IP'ar, August 1985. Translation: a massive Russian armor·::d force has just crossed the West German border --the "next" war has started. 
Hackett, brmer commander of th( British Armv of the Rhine--an inte gral part of the NATO European defense system is cer :ainly 10 a position to know what could happen, and although it is not one of the easiest tasks in the world to conjure up pictures of death and destruction in one's mind, Tlfe Third World War goes a long way toward putting the reader right in the middle of the world's most serious crisis to date-­the crisis that could very well spell an end to our way of life. 
An American intelligence ship in the Gulf of Aden is sunk by.Soviet ships. The President of Mexico assasinated. India and South Africa 
turn into chaotit: states of internal strife. Then, following growing discontent at home, culminating in riots in East Berlin, the Russians take a bold gamble and invade Yugosla­
via. 
The time is August 198~, and as things turn out, the Soviets have miscalculated with their adventurism in Yu~oslavia. U.S. Marines are 
flown m and much to the surprise of rapidly advancing Russian troops, 
· b. 

engage Soviet troops 10 Ittcr com­
bat. The Marines pay the price in 
~~JOfm' ~&OTifE1R 
~-'0 A 1\lT.?Tl\lT"''t N"A ITQ
J. UC" :LUC'll.\I~).J.J.\1\J ..l"l.. (~T'[jTQ AT 0 
o~ ADVISORS 
~\I~ OC 
The Third World War, August 1985, General Sir john Hackett Publishing Company. $12.95 ' 
Macmillan 

John McGrath 
mate the Russians in the battle. To 
save face, the Russian have no 
recourse but to launch an all-out 
attack on Western Europe. World 
War III has begun. 
The purpose of this review is not to 
delve into the outcome of this mind 
game in detail, so I'm going to leave 
you with the thought of numerically, 
superior Warsaw Pact forces sweep­
ing into NATO's defense lines with a 
swiftness, devastation, and merciless 
intensity that would make Hitler's 
Blitzkrieg look like playing cowboys 
and indians. 
Hackett recounts the conflict with a 
meticulous narrative set at a time 
immediately following the conflict, 
looking back on the catastrophe 
through fictional news stories and 
captured military records. It's heavy 
material, and at least a rudimentary 
knowledge of weapons systems and 
military terminology is needed just to 
keep up, but if the reader fits that 
bill, this book can control your eyes, 
and not let go until the last bullet, the 
last laser, the last intercontinental 
ballistic missile, is fired. 
The book is not some lunatic 
writers sadistic fantasy. It's a 
responsible, well-researched, and 
perhaps prophetic warning to the 
world of what could very well be 
staring us in the face. 
There are some surprises in this war. If it means anything to you, I think it is comforting to read that any future war doesn't necessarily have to end up in a total nuclear holocaust. 
but that doesn't mean nuclear wea­
pons aren't used. Or chemical weapons. Or space weapons. If you're more confused now than ever, good. That's a great indication you 
might want to read about the Third 
World War before it happens. 
One hint before I finish: We won't 
II F=h=e=a=v~y==c=a=s=ua=l=t=ie=s=·=b=u=t==in==t=u=r=n==d=e=cl=··=======================================================================be==s=p=e=a=ki=.n=g=R==u=s=si=a=n=i=n=1=9=9=0=.=--======~ 
WOMENONLY! 
~ying No ...Subtly? 
M.WouHe 
AITENTION, FEMALE STUDENTS: (NOPEEKINGGUYS !) ~ 
AreJou hassled and harrassed by numerous admirers? Bothereil and 
bo~ge by countless invitations? (What's it like?) Anyway, here's some 
relief--brief but efficient rejoinders to return to those persistent suitors. 
Guaranteed to work! (Remember, girls, with the ratio around here, you 
gorta be tough.) Ready? Here we go: 
"I gave guys up for Lent." • 
"No, thanks, I'm already doing nothing." 
"My gerbil is expecting babies, and I don't want to miss the glorious 
moment.'' 
"Why, no, thank you." (Accompany this with retching sounds). 
"Sure, if you can get dates for my roomies, Myrtle )c•, Butch, Roseanna 
Roseanna, and Itchy." 
"Let me check my schedule." (put down phone and go take a long 
shower). 
"I don't date boys. I date men." 
"I can't go out. I'm ground~d this weekend." 
"Great! When should I have Mom reserve the church, and the banquet
hall?'' Uncle Vito and da boys are taking me out that night." "I hafta study for my ~lood test." 
WHAT NOT TO SAY: 
"Sorry, I'm not home." 
"No thanks, I don't like guys." (this gets around, you're in trouble, 
honey). 
"I have an appointment at the clinic." ditto). 
''I'm getting married that evening, sorry." (Naw, he can check the 
papers). 
"Sorry, I have a "Features" assignment to write for the paper." (oh, 
come on! No one is gonna believe that !) 
~ymphony to Perform 
The South Bend Symphony will feature the internationally celebrated soprano, ) essye Norman, on Satur­day, March 22 at 8:00 p.m. in the Morris Civic Auditorium. 
Norman will perform selections from Wagner, "Wesendonk Songs" and the Prelude and Liebestod from Tnsten and Isolde. Conductor Her­
... bert Butler will also direct the Symphony in Mozart's Symphony No. 41, "Jupiter" and Faure's Pellas and Melisande Suite. 
Born in Augusta, Georgia Norman studied with Carolyn Grant at Howard University in Washington D.C., with Alice Uschak at Peabody Conservatory_ in Baltimore, Mary­land, and wtth Pierre Bernac and Elizabeth Mannion at the University of Michigan in Ann Arbor. 
Norman's professional career started when she won first prize at the Bavarian Radio Corporation inter­national Music Competition in Mu­nich, Germany. this success resulted in recital and orchestral concerts throughout Germany and later in other European countries. Her operatic debut was in the role of Elisabeth in Tannahauser at the 
Deutsche Oper, Berlin, in December 1969. At the Hollywood Bowl in the summe~ of 1972 (with)ames Levine conductmg), she sang Aida in a concert performance. In the same summer she appeared with Colin Davis and ·the Boston Symphony Orchestra at Tanglewood, Lenox, massachusetts, in an all-Wagner 
concert 

In addition to her many subsequent concerts with Messrs. Levine and Davis, Miss Norman has appeared with such eminent conductors as Muti, Kempe, Boulez, Fruhbeck de Burgos, Mehta, Ozawa and Barenbo­im, and with such prestigious orches­tras as the New York Philharmonic the Chicago Symphony Orchestra: the London Symphony Orchestra, the Los Angeles Philharmonic and the Cleveland Symphony Orchestra. She has also performed opera at Deutsche Oper, Berlin; Teatro Communale, Iorence; Royal Opera House (Covent 
Garden), London; and at La Scala, Milan. 
Tickets are $7, $6, and$~ for adults and $6, $~. and $4 for students. For further tickft information please call the Symphony office at 232-6343. 

' , , " ' 1 \ f ~ ~ ' ' 't ' .
. I •! '\, _.'' '. 

, • \ \ I I I o I ~ • o I ' 0 f { 0 ~ ~ 0 " ' " • ' • ' ' ) I I I o o 0 ' o L ~ o.. o o ...... I ' I • • • • I I I I I I •' 0 I I • I' o 0'' 
_ 
_________________________________________________________________________________________________. 
f·'·
l_ 
-----------~-----------~----------------------..--------------"·--....
r 
-.

Features 
Friday, March 21, 1980-page 13 

LETTERSTOil LONELYGOD 
1"'he Devil You Know 
Late Sunday evening, after the last Mass was said, and the cheer­leading for J ahweh had ended fvr another week, I admitted the Devil to my room, and we played the n'ame of being agnostic. The: Devil, reeking of perfume from Pucci, wore a Pierre Cardin shirt and a Princess Mara necktie, like the ones Jeannie gave me for Christmas. He sported a new moustache that's the spitting image of my moustache; and he had the air of a gentleman who has recently lost a great deal of weight. The advantages, to the Devil, of looking like me, is that I don''t waste time doubting whether he really exists. As long as I can admit my own existence, I don't hav•e prob­lems establishing the identity of the evil one. 
"As usual," he said, taking my Pall Mall away from me as soon as I had lighted it, "You're working too hard, setting up land deals in Disneyland." In separating me from my cigarettes, he makes one of his cleverest appearances as an a.ngel of light. 
"I feel fine," I said, "but who invited you? If you don't mind, I'd rather be alone.'' 
"You are alone," he said. "Except for you, this room is as empty as an atheist's heaven. I'm just the night shadow of the doubt you're afraid of, the darkness hug­ging the corners of your mind. If you pray, a flight of angels will be sent to keep you safe. Isn't that what the Divine Ineptitude has promised?'' 
"It's like a game of politics between you and Him," I said, ''where neither candidate speaks well of the other.'' 
''Except,'' he said, ''that Old Tinhorn keeps insisting that the meek shall inherit the earth. They could hardly complain if He even­tually cheats them; otherwise, ifthey complain, they wouldn't really be the meek, and shouldn't be inher­iting anything.'' 
You can't argue with the Devil; to tell the truth, I don't even try. On Sunday evenings, after the cheer­leading of worship, I'm a little diswuraged with God. The Devil, sensing the weariness, cheered me up "'ith the vffer of an unruly passion. Out of habit, I rejected it, but I'm unredeemed enough to be grateful. 
"He n1ins Himself," I com­plained. 'He seems to like to be defeated. I like Him so much, but He •loesn't deserve to be a winner." 
"I could have made it easy for Him," the Devil said modestly. "I could have given Him the whole world to bootlick the legs of His throne; but He wouldn't share. He didn't want to be partners; He insisted on doing it His way.'' His wa;Y, for Frank Sinatra, was the height of macho. His Way, for God, was merely self-destructive. 
"Blessed are they that mourn," I tell them, ''for they shall be comfor­ted. Blessed are the merciful, for they shall obtain mercy. Blessed are the pure in heart, for they shall see God. Blessed are the/eacemakers, for they shall be calle the children of God." 
"Honeyed words, like opium," the Devil sneered. "And He calls me the Father of lies." 
''Experience alw~ys ends with death," I said. "In the green leaf of nature, life keeps re-appearing, until winter overwhelms it. But when the great globe of earth itself is cracked, and the earth and seed are consu­med in fire, what will become of existence? Will God give back life then that He wouldn't lift His hand to save now?" 
"I watched Him die," the Devil said. "Proud, mean, spiteful, He preferred to suffer. When He finally died, I covered Him with darkness. He couldn't prevent me from helping Him when He was dead, and I covered Him with darkness, because I didn't like to look at Him." 
"I guess," I said, "that when you finished with Him, He didn't look very much like God any more?" 

"What," he said, "is He suppo­sed to look like except a skinny kid who is going hungry, or a sick woman whose friends have left her, or a poor man who needs clothes to keep him from freezing. He looked like all of them. I could never respect a superior whom I had to pity.' ' 
"He ruins Himself," I said, "and I'm worn out from trying to get people to take Him seriously. It's very tirin~, teaching them lessons about grams of wheat, falling into the earth and dying, so that they might bring forth new life." 
"He couldn't forgive me," the Devil said. ''I offered Him the· kingdoms of the world and the glory thereof that He could have shared with His beggars, and He couldn't forgive me. With His dying breath, He forgave everyone who hurt Him, but He couldn't forgive me, and it hurt me for quite a long time." 
He didn't seem like a bad devil, as 
he sat there, looking like me, 
grieving for himself, loving God and 
hating Him in the same emotion. 

"Why do you suppose He wouldn't 
forgive you?" I said. 

"Our argument began a long time 
ago," he said, "when I said to His 
creatures: 'Would you like to be like' 
-he hesitated, refusing to say the 
name -'like His Nibs?' His Nibs, 
when He found out, got very angry. 
He said it wasn't supposed to be that 
way at all; that He wanted to become 
like those low, vile creatures Him­
self; that was the way He had 
planned creation. I said it was 
ridiculous ; He should raise crea­
tures to His level, nqt descend to 
theirs. Did He expect outstanding 
angels like myself to look like vile 
vermin? He said that He didn't 
expect anything from His angels 
except that they should await their 
marching orders. I said that if 
marching orders meant Ikowtowing. 
to silly creatures, He could shove 
them up St. Gabriel's horn, because 
I marched to the beat of a different 
Rev. Robert Griffin 
drummer. The He told me to get out, and I told Him I was getting out, but He could send for me when he had come to his senses. He hasn't sent for me yet, so I keep taking His creatures away from Him, tempting them with offers of the kingdoms and glory ofthe world that His Nibs, with His slumming, had no use for.'' 
By now, the Devil had begun 
weeping, as though he regretted 
taking creatures away from their 
Maker, but taking creatures away, 
was what a Creator, who wouldn't 
compromise, made a poor devil do. 
Sweat was beading brow, and he had 
begun reeking rather vulgarly with 
the smell of burning sulphur. Mraid 
that he might hun me, I threw holy 
water at him, to make him disap­
pear. "Et tu, Brute? Then falls 
Caesar," he said with great dignity. 
With words from a scene he had 
rehearsed before, the archvillain of 
the world left my room, like an actor 
playing tragedy with wounds frotn a 
personal sorrow. 
There is an evil part of me that 
makes me nervous: the night shadow 
of a doubt I'm afraid of, a darkness 
hugging the corners of my mind. On 
days like Sunday, when I preach too 
much, making God somewhat smal­
le~ than myself, feeling sorry for 
Him because He may not exist -if 
He does exist, why the suffering? ­
th•arDevil comes to tell that God 
bears him a grudge. 
As a member of the De~tl's party, I . 
know that the Devil lies. God doesn't bear grudges, but the Devil nurses a grudge. The Devil resists the mercy to forgive God for being outcast and leperous The sin of not forgiving is tne Vevil's sin against God Who, so fra, seems to have lose most of the 
battles. 

An old lady once praised the Devil 
with the remark: "You've got to 
admit that He's a hard worker. On 
Sunday evenings, when I've finished 
cheerleading, I wish like the Devil 
that I could say ofGod; "He's a hard 
worker.'' 

Mom, Stick to Bingo 
Mrs. Eileen A. F. prominent resi­~ent of che township of Lower Merion, pa. braked to a screeching talt in front of Mapes Five and Dime 1tore :tnd honked her horn. Mr. 
vtapes, a hulking, shapeless m~m ~n tis early fifties, sporting the latest m 1olyester chic, slowly ambled to the :ar window. Mrs. F. whipped a check mt of her wallet. 
''Would you mind cashing this for ne?" 
The check, a ~ood one, too, repre­sented an enure week's worth of grocery money -money to feed the five voracious little mouths at home. Mr. Mapes gazed at the check f.Jr a long moment. His gaze shifted to Mrs. F's face. He looked at the check lgam. 
"Can we make a deal?" 
Apparently, Mr. Mapes had ~otten a hot tip from his bookie at Ltberty Bell race Track. He was talkin1~ a gelding named Black Destroyer 
"Why don't you JUSt l?u a.tJc.:tu and place the bet yourself?' , asked Mrs. 
F. 
"Well, I've already put down some money, and, well, I've gotta pay the help." 
The help, seven punky thirteen year olds, had their ltttle noses pressed against the store window to make sure Mr. Mapes would not try to run away. 
"Look Mrs. F.,ahorse is a sure thing. If you go halves with me on this bet, you could get those new living room curtains." 
"I don't know, I've got a husband and five kids at home.'' "Yeah, and do you got a mink coat at home?" "What race is it?" 
Black Destroyer was running in the 
ninth race. The track was hard and 
fast. The race started precisely at the 
designated time; Black Destroyer ran 
without mishap and finished last. 
That night, Mrs. F. ftxed scrambled 
eggs for dinner. She said she was too 
tired to ftx a big meal. Then after 
dinner, while her family was watch­
ing reruns of "Voyage to the Bottom 
of the Sea," she turned up the T.V . 

really loud so no one cou_ld hear anything, which was good, smce she didn't want anyone to overhear the call she was about to make. Since half the bet was Mr. Mapes', she could therefore extort enough money from him to enable her to fake :it through 
the weekend. 

''What do you mean you can't give me the money yet?" 
"Well, .a lot of those little twerps 
had put in overtime, and cash 
turnover was high today and there's 
nothing in the cash register. What 
can I say?" 
What could Mrs. F. do? 

Her children, sensing' her distress, without understanding its cause, rallied around her to offer their comfort and support. 
"Mom, I need new sneakers." 
"Shut up." 

"Mom, I need them bad. See, my 
toes are sticking out.'' 

"I'll break your toes and then you won't need any sneakers." And so it went. Finally, Mrs. F. became de­sperate. There wereno eggs left to scramble, no hot dogs to defrost. 
The sounds of her 
children wailing for peanut butter 
forced her to extreme measures. 
Storming her way into Mr. Mapes' 
five and dime, she planted herself 
nex t to the cash register, and as the 
Narberth Little League bought their 
post -/ractice bubble gum, she 
snatche . the change from the 
cashier's hand until she had collected 
the amount Mr. Mapes owned her. 
Then, she set about her weekly 
shopping. 

''Why are you giving me such a lousy cut of pork roast,'' she screech­ed at the butcher,'' I had to wait around for two hours while some little creeps at the soda fountain traded Jim Palmer for ] oe Morgan and 
I want value." 
Kate F. 

. • • r' t • t I I I I • I I> • •,. • • •I. •• • • • ~ • .. • ...... '"'~· ... .,. '!" .... '"',..---• •-~.,. ... .,. • .. -•-'1 'f
I' 
•, • • ,·,, • 1 • I' I (' 
-'-'-'---'I'!·-~-•--'-~-'----~~ L .L L/__-f___L__....j.____• ---'------'-i____j_---'­
The Observer Friday, March 21, 1980-page 14 
Gasoline 
-targets announced 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The Energy Department yesterday announced gasoline conserva­tion targets, which each state is expected to meet during the next three months. 
The targets call for a nation­wide reduction of about 6. 7 percent in gasoline use during April, May and June, comparc·d with the corresponding months ::>f 1979. 
The proposed state reductions range from a low oJf 1.1 percent in Wyoming to 17 percent for Alaska. 
Department representatives said the percentages for each state are not actually related to the amount of gasoline used in the states last year. They said the J?ercentages represent an idealized estimate of what last year's figure would have been in each state under "normal" conditions -when adjusted for the effects of weather and fuel shortages, for example. 
The targets set by the depart­ment are voluntary and each stare is to decide how to meet its target. The states are to submit plans to the federal government, detailing ways to achieve the goals. 
DeJ?artment spokeswoman Mana Uharenko said this 
means  an  individual motorists  
can't  tell  what  kind  of  a  
fuel-saving  effort  is  expected.  

until his state government spells it out. 

~~D~ 

JUST 5MILESNORTH OFN.D. ONU.S. 31 
1Jone 684-37 
Open Mon.-Fri. 8to6 
Sat. 8 to 1 


In Michigan 

State initiates plan to combat Curene 442 
ADRIAN, Mich (AP) -The mainly Mexican-American working class people of Sunny­side are struggling to under­stand that they must wear shoes in the summer and keep dust outside because of a substance they cannot see and have no Spanish W()rd for. 
The substance in Curene 442, a synthetic chemical which makes plastic unbreakable. Sci­entists say its yellow particles have permeated the air and soil in Sunnyside, a neighborhood on the outskirts of Adrian. 
The Curene in Sunnyside comes from the Anderson De­velopment Co., the only U.S. manufacturer of the chemical. Chemist Amos Anderson founded the firm in Adrian in 1967 and has made Curene for the past 11 years. 
Residents are mystified by the public debate over Curene ­which has caused tumors in rats and dogs. While it has yet to make any person sick, scientists say Curene may also produce cancer in humans. 
But Curene is a small worry in the lives of l?eople in Sunny­side, who felt tsolated by pover­ty and municipal neglect long before they heard of the chemi­cal. They say they've complain­ed for years about foul indus­trial odors, the lack of running water in many homes, inade­quate sewers and unpaved missioner. "Politically speak­
ing, if it were where the rich 
people live, there would have 
been some imibediate atten­-tion." 
''These poor Chicano and 
white people don't have the 
political clout that, it takes to get 
so'llething done.'' 

Sunnyside didn't even learn of 
the rotential chemical dangers 
unti social workers successfully 
urged the county to print flyers 
streets. 

Many houses are little more than tarpaper shacks. Dozens of windows are broken or covered 
• • . Gasprices
with cardboard. 

The mistrust of government and industry has been sharpen­ed as lawyers, scientists, politi­cians and bureaucrats squabble over cleaning up Curene 442. 
''Nobody cares about Sunny­side," said Maria Gonzalez, a recently elected county com-
Repro Graphics 
306 So. Notre Dame Avenue • South Bend, IN 46617 • (219) 288-9695 
Job Objective:  Makingcrowd.  YOUR  resume  stand  out  in  a  
Capabilities:  24 different styles of type. 12 type sizes, 6 to 36 point. 8 type styles on line at one time. Word spacing, either automatic or operator controlled.  
Prkina:  One page-$17.00, Two pages-$30.00.  
References:  Available by calling 288-9695.  

[continued from page 4] 
entering the British capital, a two percent weekday decline and four percent on weekends. 
"We might use the car once a month over the weekends now," a British housewife told the AP. ''A year ago, it was 
every weekend, and now I think twice about driving to the supermarket in London on weekdays.'' 
In Italy, however, gasoline consumption climbed eight percent from the 1978 level despite the price increases. 
U.S. gasoline use fell five percent in the same period. 
The average price of a gallon of regular gasoline at a full­service U.S. station was $1.13 in January, up from 68.42 
cents a year before, according to the Lundberg Letter, a publication that covers the

PASQUALE 
mdustry. In many areas, prices are expected to contiue to climb as
RULLI'S PIZZA 

the new Organization of Petro­leum Exporting Countries price 
WE DELIVER TO ND AND SffiC 
boosts that hit in late ] anuary 
and early February work thetr way down to the pump. 
FRI AND SAT TILL 1am, 
sun unti111. · 

Those increases will hurt poorer countries especially. In
SPECIAL OFFER 
Kenya, where the World Bank estimates annual per-capita in­come at $2.70 the price of a gallon of premium gasoline has risen to $2.18 a gallong from 
838 Pottage Ave. 
232-1883 

tl.57 at the end of 1978. --------------But motorists aren't paying
must use this coupon fot more everywhere. Big cars clog 
I fll 00 OFF LARGE PIZZA I ~~ci:~s ontE~~h'f~~~t~~ 1-~~~~~ 
'II • 1 member, where the pnce of
I 

14 ln./3 Item pizza only ~cpll3l ,._premium has remained at just
I 30.8 cents a gallon over the uauaIptlce I• 16.00 I past year. thll weekend only fteelltte of pop with A t~avel~r who visit_ed Sau~i 
,_ I I __ t 1 Arabta thts month satd the ml 
anylatge pizza ___.. cartel's largest producer has m Spanish and hire a Spanish­speaking employee, she says. 
Ms. Gonzalez went to the state for help. She claims city offi­cials ignored Curene because 
Sunnyside is  on  the fringes  
Adrian,  and  the  county  lacks  
the money.  

The state responded with a never-before-tried "deconta­mination" plan that could cost taxpayers up to $6 million. 
even cheaper fuel: High-test at 
29 cents a gallon. 

In Mexico, another major 
producer, the state oil monopo­
ly has frozen the price of 
gasoline at 46 cents a gallon for 
regular and 65.4 cents for 
premium since November 
1976. 

And in Canada, where con­
trolled domestic crude oil pri­
ces are 60 percent below the 
world level, drivers pay 81 
cents a gallon for regular 
gasoline, up from 71 cents a 
year before. 

In many countries, high gaso­
line prices are due not only to 
rising crude oil prices but to 
high taxes as well. 

Taxes make up 53 percent of 
the price of gasoline in Bel­
gium, where a gallon of pre­
mium fuel now sells for $3.11· 
up from $2.37 a year ago -but 
motorists there don't seem to 
be deterred by the price in­
crease or the high tax. 

"When prices go up, peol?le 
mar. drive less for a bnef 
whde, but they soon go back to 
their normal driving habits,'' 
said a spokesman for the 
Belgian Petroleum Federation. 
Japan's government said the 
average !?rice of a gallon of 
gasoline, mcluding an 85 cents­
a-gallon tax, has risen to 
$2.13-$2.45 from $1.42-$1.85 a 
year earlier. • 

American taxes, by contrast, average only 14 cents a gallon, newsletter publisher Dan Lundberg estimates. 
Italian taxes account for 64 percent of the country's $3.b2 a -g~llon price, while ~ortuguese drtvers were paymg a 7 3 percent fuel tax as their oil 1mport-dependent nation's pre­mium gasoline pric,. dimbed to $_2. 95 a gallon from $2 .49 a year ago. 

The ObSE~rver Friday,March21, 1980-page 15. 
Wr. Europeans leave decisions UJ, to Olyntpic committees 

STRASBOURG, France (AP) ­Britain and The Netherlands found no support• yesterday from the rest of Western Eu­rope for a boycott of the Moscow Olympic Games. 
An overwhleming majority of the ministers and secretaries of state for sport, meeting under the aegis of the 21-nation Council of Europe, favored leaving the deciswn to their national Olympic committees. 
They said their governments opposed making recommenda­tions to the committees until the approach of the May 24 deadlme for accept~g invita­tions to the Summer Games. 
The Netherlands' Secretary of State for Sport, C.G. Wallis de Vries, said he and his British counterpart, Hector Monro, were the only ministers who spoke in favor of a boycott. 
Sources said France took the lead in opposing anti-Soviet a~tion, SJ,>orts Mini~ter Jea~­Pierre Soisson argumg that 1t would be an intolerable inter­ference of politics in sport. 
Soisson originally opposed e­ven putting the boycott issue on the agenda, threatening to stay away from the meeting, sources said. Later he agreed to attend, provided the talks were discreet and given minimum publicity ­a condition rejected by Britain and West Germany. 
De Vries said he warned his colleagues here that if they went to the Olympics while the Soviet Army was on Afghani­stan soil, they would be letting 
Soaring energy costs may crealte jobs 
for hurnan laborers 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The soaring cost of energy may be prompting employers to return to an old means of production thar some government econo­mists say is becoming cheaper than machines: human labor. 
Labor Department economists estimate that up ito 1 million jobs were create·d in 1979 because businesses have found it economical to substitute la­bor for energy-draining machi­nery. 
Labor Secretary Ray Mar­shall, a trained economist, has been promoting this theory, which has received dther scant attention or skeptical resl?onses from most other economists. 
... The theory suggests that de­spite the jolts that the economy has suffered because of high energy prices, employment will remain healthier than conven­tional forecasts of sharply ris­ing unemrloyment this year. Marshal estimates that of 2 million jobs created in 1979, between 750,000 and 1 million resulted from substituting la­bor for energy, . which rose more than 30 percent in price last year. f "I am seeing it happen all over tbe country,'' Marshall said. "If you reduce the speed limit to conserve fuel, you need more truck drivers. If you're putting in more insulation to keep from losing heat, you need labor to do it." Nancy Barrett, a deputy assis­tant secretary of labor, esti­mates based on the limited research done in this field that each 1 percent rise in the price of energy leads to an increase of about 33,000 jobs. She said this explains why unemployment has st:ruck at 
about 6 percent smce mid­1978, defying economic fore­casts of between 6112 and 7 percent unemployment by the end of 1979. Each 1 percent of unemployment equals about 1 mmion people. 
Ms. Barrett says this trend also may be a main factor in last yea(~ distur~ing decline in . productivity, which measures/ how efficiently goods and ser­vices are produced. President Carter's Council of Economic Advisors, however, rejects this conclusion . 
Marshall's theory does not 

mean that the workforce is actually larg·er because of high­er energy p.rices. The country's 200,000 laid off auto workers can vouch for that. 
Rather, labor-for-energy sub­stitution appears to cushion the harmful eff,ects that rising e­nergy prices might otherwise have caused. For example, Ms. Barrett said,, the rise in energy prices last year slowed econo­mic growth at a cost of 1 million conventional jobs. But that loss may have been fully offset by the iP.crease in ener­gy saving jobs. 
Hostages, guerillas request negotta.ttons 
BOGOTA, Columbia (AP) ­The Colombian government a­greed yesterday to a request from hosta&es and guerrillas in the Domimcan Republic Em­bassy to resume face-to-face negotiations, deadlocked for a week over the guerrillas' de­mand for the release of alleged political prisoners. 
The talks, ftrst set for today, were postponed until Monday after Foreign Minister Diego Uribe Vargas met with Presi­dentJulio Cesar Turbay Ayala, diplomatic and government sources said. 
''At the request of the ambas­sadors held hostages and the chief of the terrorists, the Colombian government has a­greed to resume the negotia­tions," UribeVar_gas told repor­ters as he entered the presiden­tial palace. 
The foreign minister said he received the request Wednes­day in a telephone call from Ambassador Richard Valan, one of the 32 foreign diplomats and others hdd hostages. 

The request for new talks may signal the first major break since the M-19 guerrillas seized the embassy during a diploma­tic reception on Feb. 27. 
Galan called the foreign mini­ster less than 24 hours after Uribe Vargas stated on a na­tionwide radio and television broadcast that the government would not budge on its refusal to meet the guerrillas' "non­negotiable" demand that 28 alleged political prisoners be freed. 
In the broadcast, the govern­ment said reopening the talks indicated a softening of the M-19 position: However, there 
[continued on page 16] 

the Kremlin "use sport for a very bad policy. Let's not forget that the Russians have crossed another country's border." 
But he said he could under­stand other countries "not wanting to take a decision too prematurely.'' 
De Vries said he had the feeling other countries might end up supporting a boycott. He pomted out that no country, not even France, had stated outright that it would attend the Games. 
But even those countries 

BANG THE RUM:SLOWL 
Sat.&Sun. 7,9,11 $1.00 Engineering Auditorium 


~!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!I!!!!!!!!!!!!!!I!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!•I!I!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!B!!•••••• 
Tb CeiJMial ANCAKEHOUS 
Fcuecilg Rufawuucf 


(0uk gpecia~y 
©ven-CGo.ked. c__)ppQe cpancakeg 
Our Specialty using fresh sliced apples topped with a sugar cinnamon glaze never·surpassed! 
U.S. 31 [Dirleway] North in Roseland [Across from Holiday lnn]272-7433 Sun.-Thurs. 6A.M. to 9P.M. Fri. & Sat. 6A.M. to 10 P.M. 
for great music and a great time ... 
I,./ 




**•1980*** 
I'[~TIVAl~~\\ 
March 21 and 22 
STEPAN CENTER 
TICKETS: all session pass $850 ($750 students) 
$500Friday $250Sa'turday afternoon 

Saturday nite '$4°0 
su ticket office 
which the U.S. State Depart­ment had listed as publicly favoring a boycott-Norway and Luxembourg-,turned out to be undecided. 
And Sweden and Switn·rland, true to their neutralist tradition, insisted that ~overnments even refrain from Issuing guidelines to their Olympic committees as they debated whether to attend the Games. 
Portugal is understood to sup­port a boycott. But it did not take the floor at yesterday's sesston. 

, , • I o •, • o 1 1 1! I r { • . -·, ,,.. ••, • I I l I 
'•'•
'·' 

Friday, March 21, 1980-page 16 
Hoosier inmate-explosion forces prison renovation 
(AP) -Indiana prison officials, ent use, such as cells used for faced with an inmate population storage, and we will be pres­that increased 21. 5 percent last sing every available bed into year and is still growing, are 
use.'' reorganizing procedures and The prison has been troubled considering renovation to re­by several outbreaks of violence lieve overcrowding. the most recent when inmates 
The Indiana State Prison at held three guards hostage in Michigan City, about 40 miles March 1979 before releasing 
east of Chicago, was originally them unharmed when prison designed for 1,200 inmates. Its authorities agreed to discuss population is now 1,673, and their grievances. 
warden Jack Duckworth esti­At the reformatory, superin-­mates the facility can handle up tendent Norman Owens said to 1 , 725 inmates. two men might have to put in The 1,300 inmates at the each cell if the population Indiana Reformatory at Pendle­continues to expand. 
ton are about 200 more than ''Any administrator would like officials would like to maintain. single bunks in all dormitories ''At the present rate, we will (cells) and in the cell blocks," 
be at the capacity in a few Owen said. ''This tends to months,'' Duckworth said of create less trouble." the 19th Century state prison. A problem associated with 
SUMMER STORAGE SPACE Slleciol discoWll for ND IBid SMC students, 
259-0335 
SeU Lock Storage of McliDiey 816East Mclinley 
Mishawaka 

get psyched for SPRING BREAK 

-admission $1.00 
-in carroll hall smc 

sunday, march 23 matinees 1:00and 3:00 
"We are identifying areas we overcrowding is the lack of jobs can rearrange from their pres-
at both facilities. Prison offi­cials say a job shortage pro­motes idleness and increases the probability of violence.
Computer unreliable 
"As people don't have con­structive activities in which to engage, it gives them too much
in crisis ; runs amuck 
idleness, and this presents management problems,'' Duck­WASHINGTON (AP) -The given area or situation. 
worth said.
worldwide computer system Wimex consists of 3 5 Honey­Larry Hembree, executive dir­built to warn the president of an well 6000-series computers at ector ofPublic Action in Correc­;:nemy attack or international Military bases or in under­tional Efforts, said inmatescrisis is prone to break down ground vaults at 27 sites, have become "sensitive" tounder Jressure, according to connected by a complex net­~ro~ins population at stateinforme sources who have work of coding and decoding mstttuuons.
worked on or examined the devices, ultra-sophisticated "They (inmates) said they are
system. sensors and various processing putting beds everywhere andThe system already has failed machines. 
It's getting pretty crowded,"in at least two critical situa­However, according to the Hembree said. "It's gettingtions, the sources siad. General Accounting Office, strained, and some of them.
A team of government Wimex simply doesn't work (penal institutions) are kind orauditors concluded that the when it's need most. 
scary.''
computers, considered a bar­And a Pentagon document Owens said the reformatory is gain when they were installed defending the system said that considering reconverting oldnearly a decade ago, are fun­generally the "computers ren­buildings on the grounds todamentally deficient in design der effective support. The house inmates and mitiating aand cannot be used effectively principal exception occurs in program to manage inmates infor military command purposes. crisis situation, when comman­small units.
The auditors say the penta­ders need quick answers to a ''This will be very critical togon has spent $1 billion tryin~ broad range of possible que;;­
managin~ a large number of
to make its World Wide Milt­tions.'' 
inmates 1f the populations con­tary Command and Control "That," said one congres­tinue to go up,'' he said.
System work, yet the system -sional expert, "constitutes and called Wimex -remains unac· admission that it can't perform ceptabley slow and unreliable. its primary mission." 
The manufacturer agrees the Though details are still clas­system doesn't work very well sified, sources said-Wimex 
• • • Colombia
but says it could be modified to computers "Crashed" duringimprove its performance. the combined Navy, Marine ' 
Defense Department officials 
Corps and Air Force operation
privately acknowledge they [continued from page 15)
to free the crew of the American 
have had repeated problems merchant ship Mayaguez after with the computer network, but it was captured off Cambodia in has been no sign the guerrillas
r------------------,
1 BRING IN THIS COUPON AND SAVE I they insist they can get by 1975. were willing to give up. The 
without it when they have to. A Pentagon spokesman con­ftfth round of face-to-face talks 
James F. May, one of several tends that during the Mayaguez ended March 13 when both experts from industry brought incident the computers were sides said they would resume
~ ~ Super Savings I : 
in to survey Pentagon comi?uter used very little and performed only_ when the other gave in. operations, told The Associated adequately. He added, howev­Officials at the U.S. Embassy Press the Wimex system is "at er, that during another, uniden­said yesterday that American 
best very fragile.'' tified crisis about the same Ambassador Diego Asencio cal­And John H. Bradley, an time, the Wimex operator put led them Wednesday for the 
electronic engineer who helped off normal maintenance and the first time in five days. Asencio
i S200FF !
test the computer network dur­computers broke down. Super­is one of 13 ambassadors and 
ing its development, says he iors were told it would take 20 acting ambassadors reportedly was fired after he went over his minutes to resume operations, inside occupied embassy who bosses' heads to warn the it actually took more than two had telerhoned their staffs 
White House that the president hours. daily unti the talks broke off. 
!GLASSES! 
shouldn't depend on Wimex to "It was a~gravating," the The government of PresidentI I tell him of a Soviet attack. officer said, 'but nobody l?ot Julio Cesar Turbay Ayala, who The Defense Department killed, nobody lost his head. ' has called the embassy occupa­I~ I says the President doesn't de­An expert of the equipment tion the worst crises in Colom­pend solely on Wimex because said, ''In general, the Wimex bia's 170 years of indepen­there are two other, faster systems don't come back up. If dence, has offered to fly the
i~CiJ :
systems designed to detect a you're down even for a second, guerrillas out of the country but nuclear strike. However, a task thousands of transactions were not to meet their other de­: For a limited time only, bring in this coupon and : force reporting to the presi­supposed to occur. In trying to mands, M-19 stands for Move­get $20 off any purchase of glasses. One coupon I, dent's Office of Management determine what happened, you ment 19, referring to elections 
and Budget found that at least have to determine what was on April19, 1970, the guerrillas
1 per customer. Present coupon at time glasses are I 
one of those "suffers frequent lost...There are alternative de­claim were fraudulent.
I ordered. No other discounts applicable during I power interruptions due to elec­signs that don't have this Colombian authorities have term of this offer. trical storm activity in Colora-problem.'' said they would not ransom theI I do. " Asked how Wimex func­hostages, but would allow qtherI Use your Wards Charg-AII. OPTICAL DEPARTMENT 1 The Wimex system was de­tioned during the recent Soviet countries with hostages in the 1 signed to warn the president military thrust into Afghanis­embassy to ,Pay ransom. The and military chiefs of an enemy tan, a Pentagon official replied guerrillas onginally requested~ Quality, Value, Selection. ~ : attack or security crisis such as simply: "Classified." Pressed $50 million for release of the the seizure of an embassy. The to say if his answer would be hostages, but apparently drop­
I I system also should provide the same if the system had ped the demand early in the up-to-date information about performed well, the same offici­negotiations.
I Scottsdale Mall291-7910 1 
U.S. forces and options in any al said, "I don't know." 
'~------------------.. 

'I : ~ .. l ',' .·; ~ J ' .. • . ' ·, ' . ' ; • ' ')· ' f
',\' . !·.........t . ..:.rJ..~ ..k~··:·~ ·~·~'. ,...,........ .......,. ... ~... ,......... ,••.•.••••••., ••••• .,
·.·.-.'~·.,.,>4,".,../ ...·..·~~-'-.r-..,~·..,'{" ~ 
I I I I I I • • 1 I o • • 1 ~ ~ • • ' • • 
------~-~­

.... -.... --·---__ .. ______ .__..,._~-·---------.-·------.... " .. ............ --.. ........ "So:•--___....___ .. --------------------------..... ----.. ·-.-.. 
• 

The Observer -Sports Friday, March 21, 1980-page 17 
' 'Visions and Dreams' ' 
...Devin~ 

Scenes from eight plays by' Falstaff in a fit of melancholy Shakespeare will be interpreted over old age, and the SJ?urnea 
[continued from page 20] 
"I like having people think I'm conserva­
tive," he admits. "Writers, players, other 
coaches; it's just not me to always be excited 
and -carried away. Sometimes people get the 
wrong impression from that but I can't help 
it. Usually the people who criticize my behavior 
are the people who don't know me very well but 
that's ok, too. I'm all for letting people believf" 
what they want about me." 
A ploy which often times works to his 
advantage when he decides. to call a not-so­
conservative trick play, or give a rare ''fire-and­
brimstone" pre-game talk. 
"You see," he chuckles, "by playing the role 
ofa deadhead conservative, I can surprise a ftw 
people once in a while.·' 
Yet some people, sportswriters especially, _like to intimate that maybe Devine just doesn't 
care. But that isn't the case at all as evidenced 
by the schedule he keeps. On Wednesday, for 
example, he left the office at 7:30 p.m., 
worked at home until 2 a.m. and was on the phone with assistant Brian Boulac shortly after seven the next morning. 
"I just like to pretend I don't care " he sighs. "And if people want to criticize ~e for that, fine. Now if a writer that I really know and respect said something bad about n:te then that would hurt me deeply. And if one of my players said I didn't care, I'd quit this job tomorrow. 
. "You see~ my basic coaching philosophy hmges on betng myself. If I were to offer any advice to a young man starting out :in this business, I'd say just be yourself. " 
The 55-year old Devine has lifetime statistics of 164-54-8 and stands third in the NCAA in total triumphs. He'-s been in the winning locker roo~, at every major bowl game as eitlher an assistant or a head coach and he's been honored with seven post-season all-star head coaching assignments. . 
"Hey," he says with a wink. "Just between you and I, I really do care." 
[continued from page 20] 
Virginia in the championship game Wednesday. 
"We have two teamds still alive (in the NCAA), and I personally felt that there might be a third one," Olson said. "I thought Ohio State had the best shot of any of us to get in,'' but the Buckeyes lost a 72-68 semifinal to UCLA. 
''There have been some great (Big TEn) teams involved in the tournaments andsome awfully goods teams in the other three that didn't make it," said Olson, referring to Wisconsin. Michigan State and Northwes· tern. 
The Big Ten season was a brutal one, and the league title wasn't decided until the last game of the season when Indiana beat Ohio State. 
There were "upsets" galore, and the three teams taht didn't get postseason bids can brag of beating the top squads: last­place Northwestern toppled Purdue, Wisconsin downed Ohio State and Michigan State whipped Iowa. 
''We've felt all along 
that the Big Ten was the 
toughest basketball conference in America.'' 
The Big Ten schools had such a habit of knocking each other off that when Olson was asked if he was surprised at the outcome of a particular game, he replied, ''I'm suprised at anybody winning anyplace." . 

Sports Briefs _ ___, 
Curis paces Sch4wenk 's upset 
<::atheri!le Curis scored 12 pomts last night as Schwenk's Swtft Swishers (9-3) upset previously undefeated Blue Wave, 24-20, in the champi<inship game of the SMC Intermural league. The Blue· Wave (11-1), which had beaten Schwenk's by two points in ove~time earlier in the season, were lea~ by ~he floor leadership of Amy Morris. 
In the consolation game, the Cager Commandoel> easily 'defeated the Smucks, 37-23, for third place. 
Judo club attencis Invitational 
Four members of the ND-SMC judo club attended the ~lamazoo Annual Invitational Tournament last Saturday. ~ark Kuntavanish, the club'~; president, and Grace tomzick each took third' place. Tina Schifani and rice-president Diane King took fifth i.1 their respective weight classes. The club's instructor, black belt {;hades :-looks, took second in the heavyweight competition. 
Kutavanish commended the club's improvement and said .l was due to the expert instruction of Hooks. 
IUtrack coach critical-
BLOOMINGTON, Ind. (AP) -Indiana University track L:Oach Sam Bell was listed in critical condition Thursday ll'ter suffering a heart attack earlier in the week, doctors 
said. The 52-year-old Bell was in the intensive care unit at Bloomington Hospital undergoing treatment for what a university spokesman described as a "massive" heart attack suffered Tuesday night. Bell has coached the Hoosiers to 12 Big Ten champion­ship in cross country, indoor and outdoor track. 

The Big Ten's dominance in postseason play has become a tradition. Indiana won the 1976 NCAA title by defeating Michi­gan, and last year Michigan State bumped off Indiana State for the NCAA crown while Indiana won the NIT at the expense of Purdue. 
''What happened last year with Michigan State and India­na and this year certainly indicate that this is the best conference in America,'' said Olson. 
Buy 

Observer 
through dance by the Southold Dance Theater this Sunday, at 3 p.m., in Saint Mary's O'Laugh­lin Auditorium. The program, titled "Visions and Dreams," will be performed with another piece, "The Firebird." 
Actors will read lines from the plays as Ann Dunn and Marcia Heintzberger dance to a collage. of music. The plays frcm which scenes have been drawn include' A Mzdsummer 
ljzght's Dream, Hamlet, Mac­oeth, and Richard III. 
Among the characters who come to l:fe through dance are Lady Macbeth urging her hus­band on to murder, Sir ] ohn Ophelia dnfting through msani­ty to death. 
The scenes used in "Visions and Dreams'' were selected and edited by Dunn in conjunc­tion with Professor Paul Rath­burn, who teaches Shakes pear­ean courses ar Notre Dame. Shakespeare's words will be interpreted at Sunday's perfor­mance by Ron and Linda]aco­by. 
Tickets are $2.50 for students and senior citizens, and $5 for general admission, and are available at the door or rnav be purchased in advance at· the O'Laughlin bo:x office, the Cen­
tury Center box office, Buttons and Bows stores. 

,....,...,.,_.,. announcine­student ticke-· 
lottery for 
john denver 
concertin the round 
•

appeanng saturday, april 26th 
lottery will be held 
sun. mar.23rd 8:00pm Iafortune ballroom limit 10 tickets per ID 
c•r 

l ,' ~ 
I 

You're 

Friday, March 28
CUp this coupon 
and mall to: Century Center, South Bend 
invited 
To An Evening of Wme Tasting 
A gathering ofFine Quality and Variety California Wines 
J41 
Public r------------------------,
ldEvisiONI II want to be there for the EVENING OF WINE TASTING I 
P.O. Box 34 1 Name II South Bend, IN 46624 I 1 
Address

orcall(219)674-59611 -----------------1 --------1 City State __Zip 1 
Tickets may also I I
I Please reserve for me: (tickets will be held for you at the door) I
be purchased at the following locations: I I
II ~-wine tasting tickets at $7.<;0 each (6:30-8:30 pro} 
Kings Cellar 11 
__hot hors d'oeuvres tickets at S2.50 each additional (5:30-6:30 pro)
All Outlets 
I I Stag<" Deli I 0 My check is enclosed I 
Downtown Soutb Bend 
I I
I 0 Mastercharge No. exp. date IChannel 34 Office 
100 Center 
I 0 Visa No. exp. date I 
Century Center I I Downtown South Bend 1 In the amount of 1 
..

..~---....~~-..-~.: ...~~-~~---------~~-~~~----..1
I. 
t 


• 

The Observer -Sports 
Friday, March 21, 1980-page 18 
Molarity byMichael Molinelli Interhall 
I 
I 
' 
f 


Pigeons by Jim McClure/Pat Byrnes 



..... 
ACROSS 28 Deliver an 1 Clergyman address 7 Fine table 29 Marine fish

The Daily Crossword 
linen 31 Combina­13 Predicament tions of 14 Soon musical 16 Moment tones 17 Mobile home 32 Used to be 18 Year: Sp. 33 Menagerie 19 Antelope of 34 Frankness 


India 38 TV tuning 21 River in device 
Scotland 43 Bay window 22 Venture 44 Manage 24 Spring 45 On earth 
bloom 46 Bedouin 25 Ready to garments eat 47 Hominy 26 Modified 48 Norse plant explorer 27 Indigo 49 Floor cover 

Yesterday's Puzzle Solved: 

© 1980 by Chicago Trlbune-N.Y. News Synd. Inc. All Rights Reserved 

50 Moslem 23 Anglo-Saxon 
rulers letter 53 Small deer 25 Certain 54 Law mail cen­57 Fame ter: abbr. 59 Continental 27 Jewish 
area month 60 Chants 28 Footwear 61 Learned 30 Military 
person truant 62 Relatives 31 Variety of cabbage DOWN 33 Dirigible 1 Ship's 34 Not fine 
longboat 35 Trailing 2 Non-winner plant 3 Clique 36 New York 4 Govt. agent border 5 Sports river 
arena 37 -Plaines 
6 Rungs of 38 Several a rope 39 Guevara ladder 40 Wordly 
7 Detachment 41 Firebirds of troops 42 Popular 8 Architec-school tural ridge period 9 -culpa 44 Attacked 10 Mohammed's 47 Gown 
son-in-law material 11 Army man 51 Indian 12 Protection princess 
for a bas-52 Flock of . ketball mallards player 55 Hebrew 
13 Crown letter 15 People of 56 Country Athens monogram 20 Broad smile 58 Fabled bird 
---------------------------1
I . PINOCCHIO'S: 
I Pizza Parlor J
I . -Georgetown Shopping PJaza 1 

HAIR DESIGNS FOR THE AWARE !ANNIVERSARYSPECIAL! 
MAN AND WOMAN rcoupon : buy·one large pizza I SPECIALOFFER •& tth dt J£ • 
Free Redken Shampoo and I ge esecon or /2 pnce.1l1 
:-onecoupon per pizza, please-~ $3sovalue ~DKEN IHAPPY HOUR Wide Screen TV ·.f (GOODTHRU MARCH 31 I 4-6pm ""1 MON TUE WED ONLY) 11Monday thru Friday .. t 
HOURS I I = ­
5 

Mon 8:10.~ flO Thurs. 8.30-8:30 lfo' an Appointment,, t:u.. Tedeliver -277-4522. aa ~ ••
Tues 8 30-~ on Fri. 8 30-6 30 ~ YY 1 Wed. 8 30-6 )0 Sot B 00-4 00 Call 234-6767 It's cominQ March 17' • I 
S<=oc::.cc-c:::~>eooc::teo~~=c~:H:II>OC=>=OC:Xx:~o=c~~ · L--------Jil.J.-------=--------1 
' 
'. 

titlegatne changed 
Sunday evening's schedule 
men's interhall basketbal championship game (Divi sion A) has been movt:d to 
p.m. on Monday. The do-or-di clash between Grace and Ho ard will be played in the AC pit. 
Irishface Oshkosh, ISU 
The Notre Dame tennis team hopes to extend its three-match winning streak this afternoon when the Irish take on visiting Wisconsin-Oshkosh at 3 p.m Tomorrow afternoon, the 
tea will be back in action agains powerful Indiana State. match will begin at 1 p.m. Bot matches will be played at Notr Dame's Courtney Tennis Ceo ter, ·weather permitting. erwise, the teams will move t the Lafayette South Club in South Bend. Seating i provided and admission is fre 
...Cru 
[continued from page 20] 

Against Iowa, 23-8, Crum said he isn't planning anything special, because his team is so · young. 
Of the top seven players only 
·one -All-American guard Dar-I 
rell Griffith -is a returning \ starter. The other six include a freshman, four sophomores and a junior. 
''With a young team, you 1 have to concentrate on doing j what· you do and not on what ' the other team does,'' Crum 
1 
said. 

"If you practice against the other team's plays, you get into the game and start thinking about what they are doing, instead of what you are sup­posed to be doing,'' he said. 
But Crum is not ignoring Iowa either. 
1 

''They are a lot like Memphis \ State," Crum said of Iowa . ''But they are bigger and have , better players, Iowa will be tough for anybody to beat.'' 
That is something that the 43-year old coach has been trymg to impress on his team. "I've caught these guys living in the past," he said. 
''They've·been watching vid­eotapes all week, but guess which games -Kansas State, Texas A&M, and LSU. I said, 'Look, fellas, if you can't afford to go to the movies, watch videotapes. But do you mind watching Iowa?' They're not old enough to understand.'' 
He is a former assistant coach under UCLA's Johnny Wooden and having taken a Louisville team to the NCAA finals three times before, Crum understands the his 
"Pressure? There's no pres­sure on me. We could lose both games and I would still • feel good," Crum said. 
"If someone told me we'd do this with four sophomores and a senior after losing (starting center) Scooter McCray, I'd have said, 'You are sick. My name's Tucker, not Sucker.' " 
pressure
1 team is under.

Conditioner With any haircut .-good thru March' l980only-r!o 1 Or does he? 
•:(~; ........, 
,. I". .: . 

j T_he Observer -SportsBoard Friday,March 21, 1980-page 19 
I 

Kansas City 12 Pittsburgh 11 
Houston 12 Cincinnati 5 I Atlanta 6 los Angeles 1

Hockey Basketball Basdball 
· St. Louis 3 Montreal 1NBA
NHL Exhll!lltion Seattle "A" 6 California 5 San Diego 5 Cleveland 2
Cleveland 109 Houston 96 Chicago (A) 3 Boston 2

Boston 124 Detroit 106 Texan 11 Baltimore 6

Atlanta 8 St. Louis 4 Washington 119 Philadelphia Chicago (N) 10 Milwaukee 8
Toronto 4 New York (N) ~. 11Toronto 3 Philadelphia ,) 
113 (OT) San Francisco 8 Oakland 2
innings
Quebec 6 Colorado 2 Kansas City 121 Denver 105 Seattle "B" 12 Arizona State 4
Philadelphia 10 Detroit 4 
meeting for Observer Night Editors Sunday 7.·30 
All classified ads must be received by 5:00p.m. , two days prior 
to the issue in which the aa is run. The Observer office will accept 
classifieds Monday through Friday, 10:00 a.m. to 5;00 p.m. All 
classifieds must be pre-paid, either In person or through the mail.
Classifieds 
~otices 
~--------------------­
Off-Campus Jocks! 
Any men or women interested In playing on the off-campus softball, soccer, or tennis teams. plea:;e call Kathy at 233-6229. 
Professional typing, reasonable rates. 291-0495. Experience typing thesis, journal articles. 
Morrissey Loan Fund Last day for undergrads to apply Is March 26. 
Have typewriter--will type term pa­pers, manuscripts, etc. 287-0892. 
MORRISSEY LOAN FUND ALL LOANS PREVIOUSLY DUE ON APRIL 7 WILL BE DUE ON APRIL 8. 
Typing Plus: Term papers, t~eses, dissertations. Light editing, ghost writing. Literary search, bibliogra­phies. genealogies. Job resume service. Sliding rate scale base'd on lead time. Special discounts on full contracts for theses and dissertations. Aardvark <\utomatic Solutions/ P.O. Box 1204/ 46624/phone 219-289-li753. 
Will do typing. Call 287-5162. Neat, accurate. 
Professional typist. IBM Selectril~ II. Business and academic experience. 272-3134. 
Mar-Main Pharmacy at 426 N. Michi­gan, cashes personal checks for stu­dents with an ND/SMC I. D. 
Typing done in my home. University Park Mall area. Call between 8 am and 7 pm at 277-3085. 
lost& Fou11d 
Lost: Black leather wallet containing 
I. D., Driver's license , and five bucks. Whoever fin as it can keep the money, but please. please return the wall,~t. Call 4625. 
Lost: Week's laundry, #90049, tal<en from St. Michael's last Wed, 3/12. Please call Ed at 6863. 
Found: one male NO class ring '80 on North Quad. Call 7047 or 233-6370 to identify. Ask for George. 
Lost: one sliver earring, SMC Sat. night. Call4611 at SMC. 
Lost: Pair of brown suede gloves in room 110or Hurley Bldg. on March 12. Call Brian 272-7684. 
Lost: SMC class ring. SM M & BSN '81 on inside. Lost behind ACC. Call Sharon 41-4295. 
Lost: one pair of dark men's sunglasses. I believe I lost them Sun, March 9 in Post Office. Plea:;e call John 232-7725. 
Lost: Blue backpack with Accounting and Chern books In it taken from Dining Hall on Friday, March 14. Call 1421. 
Lost: N D class ring. Engraved inside MJK '81. Please call Mike 8436. 
:r. 
./ 
t 
Fauna: Paper sack containing j~cke.t, 
~­
,,. 
in structures. March 19. Identify 111 Observer office. ­
~ 
t 
Lost: Class ring engraved MJK '81. i·f found, please call Mike 8436. 
Wanted 
Need riders to Green Bay area for break. 287-0422 Chrissy. 
Wanted: Ride to Buffalo! For this 
weekend, March 21 or any other. Call Lisa at 8144. 
Need one way ride to Nashville for break. Call 3726. , .• 
Need ride to Lafayette, ln., March 27 or 28. Call Ed 1820. 
Wanted: Need a ride to St. Peters­burg, Fla. Will share expenses. Please call S M C 5480. 
Need ride to Pittsburgh for break. Can leave any time. Will share expenses. Chris 3127. 
Help!! I am in dire need of a ride to Boston for break. Can leave any time. Will share. Fun guaranteed. Call Beth 41-4140. 
Need ride to Florida for spring break. Will share expenses. Please call Sara 7952. 
Need ride to Tampa, Fla. for spring break. Will share driving and expen­ses. Please call Christian 272-7987. 
Sci;;-tiii;i~-;~;~~;jj;t""o"~ds
ride to Canton, Oh. or Gen. VICinity for break. Can leave after Thurs. morning. Share usual. Joe 3598. 
Desperately need ride to Ft. Lauder­dale area for spring break. Will share driving and costs generously. Call Steve 1428. 
Need ride to NYC for break. Call Janet 
41-4700.  
Desperate!  Need  ride  to  Northern  
N.J.  right  olf  1-80.  Must  leave  
Monday  or  Tuesday (25th).  Share  

usual. Call Mike 7289. 
Need ride to New Orleans for break. Call Rick 7695. 
Need ride to NYC, Conn. for break. Leave Wed, p.m. Pay $40. Jay 8894. 
Wanted: ride to/from N.Y.C. or 
vicinity Will share driving and $$$. Can leave after 2 p.m. on 3/26. Call Tom 1155. 
Need riders to N.Y. metro. Leaving Monday, March 24. Curt, 234-0467. 
Need ride to Milwaukee for break. Can leave after 12:00 Thursday. Katie 8142. 
Please help me get a tan in sunny Lauderdale. Can leave Thursday, March 27, noon or after. Will share driving, expenses, and conversation. Beth 1344. 
Need ride to Minnesota for break. Can leave early. 8268. 
Need ride to Phlla/S. Jersey for break. Call 6446. 
Need rider to New Orleans for break. Call 288-1376. 
Need ride to Iowa Falls [N. of Cedar Rapids/ or anywhere near there. Will help w th $$$. Call Jim 1195. 
Need ride to Mason City or Fort Dodge, lA vicinity for break. Call Charlie at 8923. 
For Sale 
1972 VW Sedan--orange rebuilt en­gine. Radial tires, rear window def., AM stereo radio--24,500 mi. on en­gine--$1250. Call Greg--work 277-0703 Home 683-7303 . 
1975 VW Beetle. Like new. Radio, defrost, low mileage, regular gas. $2900 or best offer. Call after 7 pm, 277-0339. 
Technics 35-watt receiver $140, KLH 300 speakers $80. Call John 1801. 
Got a blank space on your wall? Fill It with color basketball action photos. All players. all sizes. Cheap. Not available from Ronco or K-Tel. Call 8932. 
Remington SR 101 single element typewriter wide carriage. New $700, 233-6208. 
~ t • ., \ 1 .. ' t l t q 

Person~als 
Happy Birthda~, Rosemary "MOM" 
Vote for Ralph Jaccodine--Keenan Hall Pres. BP Hall does! 
Igloo, Please don't thaw without me. Happy Spring 
An Tostal staff mee1tlng !I Sunday March 23rd, 7:00 p.. m. Lafortune Theatre. 
Brenda Dugan, You are adoll. Why don't you try an Italian? Mr. Chips 
Sharon, Please reconsider. Joe 
Dear Bill S. Good luck on elections! cc 
Dear Abusee, Happy 19th B-Day! Abuser 
Dear Tank, I'd love to penetrate your armor on your 19th B-Day: TODAY! BEAST 
Be Be, To years of frisbees and formals that never end. I love you! Refugee 
Deggers, Let's listen to Springsteen and together we'll watch the snow melt. 
Color Basketball pictur,es still avail­able. Slam dunks make great decora­tions. Call 8932. 
Spot supports--smash! !-Mr. Hands supports Mr. Bill for UMOC. 
He's unfriendly, malicious, obnoxious, and crass. Joe Trednor for UMOC. 
WANTED: IRISH BAllO FOR AN TOSTAL FRIVOLITIE~). IMME· DIATELY CALL: KEVIN 287-4635, MURPH 7821. 
Need ride to D.C. Can !Slave Monday night. Call Karen 8163. 
Kelly, 

This past week has been heaven!! Looking forward to meetillQ you in the Engineering Building torught. Also looking forward to having a crazy and wild time with you. 
Passionately The big guy from Boston 

Repeat of the party at Huffman's in 301 Campus View Saturday night. Double keggar with all the works including aBeach Boys extravaganza!! Last chance to ~o ZO 0E Y before break. Be there!!.! 
GIRL FROM THE COI.LEGE, STUDYING ON TliE FIRST DAY OF SPRING Ill CLOSE!! [YOU MUST ~E TIRED!] THE MAN WHO NEVE~! SLEEPS 
Dan Snow, 
It's been six years since I last saw you in Colorado. Welcome to NO! We'll show you how to party Huffman and Notre Dame style! 
Johnson, Here's your very own ND personal. I'll take Sally, You take Sue You'll walk down the aisle While I sit in the pew Meyor Bruder? 
Harold 

P.S. Have agood time here. Hope you don't feel like you got screwed. 
To Mr. Bob Well (the Valle): We .are pleased to make your distln-
C.¢ 4 .... • o.<t 4 ·, ', 1 1 :, t t C·h CA 
guished acquaintance. Hope that the feeling Is mutual. Have fun this weekend with Angie. 
The Woman from Regina 2~ 
P.S. You really are getting more handsome by the minute! 
Roseann Enyedy-Welcome back from the hospital! Now it's time to study. 
Louise, Art, and Michael 
Rosemary-Happy Birthday! Hope you have a terrific day. Beth 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY ANNELLIOTT* BIG 22nd girl. Love, Big CSN girls 
For an evening to laughs with Barbra Streisand and Omar Shariff come see FUNNY GIRL* Frl, 3121 & Sat 3/22-7,9,11 p.m. Carroll Hall SMC 
Tonight ST. Patty's Day party. Knights of Columbus Hall, 9:00 p.m. Refresh· ments and dancing. All ladles of ND-SMC community invited. A Howard Hall production. 
Dear Rose, Happy Birthday! We love you. Midge, Cowboy, Buford, Daniel, and Pitty 
Happy Birthday Tom. Love, Sue 
Hey RCM, 

Happy birthday to an almost ex­(editor, silly). We'll celebrate right next weekend. 
The Digger Phelps fan club 
Who is Digger Phelps? 
lsn 't he the hockey coach? 
MARY GERARD-·Have a happy birthday--from your roommate who thinks you should be "laked" today! 
RAINBOW--I feel sorry for poor, demented people like you! 
Math Students of the world, unite! 
We can overcome the bourgeois domination of the Math Department. Let us rise up against ritualistic indoctrination. Let us rise up against the capitalistic hoards of functions, derivatives, and integrals! We shall beat out sliderules into plowshares; our protractors Into pruning forks! Revolution means victory! Paid for by the committee to put vice back into the Vice-Presidency. 
Mary-Sue Gerard, Happy Birthday to my favorite freshman. The Gambler 
Happy 19th birthday to beauti!ul Mary "Tank" Gerard! I 
Spend an evening with Barbra Streisand and Omar Shariff In FUNNY GIRL* Fri. and Sat. In Carroll Hall SMC. 
Guys! Send your birthday hugs and kisses to MARY at 256 Badin. Wow! 
Maureen in Holy Cross, Thanx for the personal. What's at 7DT florist? FTD Florists 
Ready, aim, fire! It's Mary's B-Day. Call her at 6953. 
Laura. 

For weeks I thought break would never come. Now I can't wait till it's gone. Happy hunt 1 ir Arkansas! 
The Diehard h:"· l<yton 
---------~1----­
claude Renshaw: · Your huggable acLOU .tilnt is on her way. 
Grohi-­

May a "Lance" walk into your life on the 1st day of your 2nd decade! Have a wonderful B-day! 
Love, LMK 
What Is your name? Fighting Irish ... Wa~er P~lo. What is you_r ,quest? T!l 
show the Holy Grail. What is your favorite color? Aquamarine, No! Blue. Ahaagh ...see the holy grail tonight. Eg. Auditorium 7,9,11. 
Find out WHERE THE BOYS ARE Sunday In Carrr..ll Haii-SMC. 
Girls: 
Call Damian "Macho" Dolan tomor­row. Wish him a happy birthday and ask him how it feels to eat a bush. 
Hi O'Shag! Wall 
My sister had a great time. Thanks boyz and girlz. 
xo 

GLEN NO 
Vote Ken Stack UMOC. 
MBB and BS. 
Did you ~ 1ve a good time last weekend? Too bad you missed ltle formal. 
Anne. Bob, Carol, Celanlne, Linda, Marcia, Mary, Paul, Rob, ·scott. Sue, and Theresa, 
Thanks tor all the support March 12th. Love you all, SKATE 
To my favorite Smick chick, Happy Birthday Mary Eileen. Love, Janie 
Come get psyched for spring break. Sunday In Carroll Haii-SMC. 
Tim my Lacrosse, 
Good luck this weekend. 
A fan forever (despite your foolish 
pride). 

Brenna Baynard-­Happy birthday to a fellow Uni gradl!ate! 
UniPep 

Deirdre Murphy: Please submit... Your secret admirer 
Maureen Glynn-
Go Braugh-Less, Happy 20th. 
• Ellen and Jean 
Mrs. Maureen "Chalk", Happy 20th!! Hope you have a good time "normally distributing" your partying. You'll be good target market for the beer makers for sure. 
Eleanor Aquitalne 

Everybody, I'm tired. But that won't stop me from getting blown away. Happy Jack 
To the Exclusive Happy Hour gang: 
I 

Memorial gathering for "Old Clint" Friday 3:30, 110--Procession to Goose's Memorial Home. Eulogy and other services will be held at 110 after 
10:30. In lieu of gifts: make checks 
1 

payable to FUBAR. Be there. Aloha. 
Happy belated birthday to Maggie' Coen! Big # 20! All of you guys can stop by 401 Badin for your l~ee birthday kisses, or call 8014 to w1s~ her well. 
Vote Ralph Jaccodlne for Keenan Hall President. 
Hey losers, 0ld you repeat?! Let's hope not! Fellow Losers 
Rosemary-
l'd bake you a cake but I don't have an oven. I'd take you out to dinner, but I don't have any money. I would even just sit and talk, but I have three tests and two papers due before spring break. Let's just say I owe you 
something. Any ideas? birthday!  Have a great Mark  
Kiddo,  

I thought that honesty was the best policy. You agreed, remember? Kiddo 
11 

, , , • , , I I< r I ( , , , , , , c t • I I · • I I 
--:J 



Spring grid report 
I Devine delays startofdrills 
It appeared to be a beautiful day to open spring football 
1 
drills. The sun was shining brightly, helping the temperature reach into the middle fifties. Nevertheless, yesterday's scheduled opening day for Notre Dame spring football drills was cancelled. 
Despite the somewhat-unseasonable warm weather, the grounds at Cartier Field are not quite thawed out. The frozen patches of earth forced the football coaching staff to 'lleet and temporarily suspend all sprins football activity. tn f~ t, there is a good chance that nothmg will commence until after Easter break, due to the number of mid-term exams next week. 
Irish coach Dan Devine did accomplish something yesterday, however. He signed Greg Golic, brother of former Irish linebacker Bob, to a letter of intent. Golic, a 
I 
6-7, 242-pound tackle from Cleveland's Saint JoseJ?h High School, becomes Notre Dame's 26th grid recruit this year.
I
L____ ___________ 
----------------------------' 
Iowa Coach Olson singspraises ofBig Ten 
lOW 1\ CITY, Iowa (1\P) ­
When Coach Lute Olson isn't 
~inging the praises of lo•va 
basketball, he's gald to talk 
about the gloric~s of the E·ig 
Ten. 
"We've felt all along that the 
Big Ten was the toughest 
basketball C•>nference in Ame­
rica,'' said the man whose team 
plays Louisv lie Saturday in the 
":~CAA semifinals at Indianapo­
liS, 
"It's been that way for a 
number of years. It's only been 
since the expanded tournament 
field that people have found out 
how tough the confe renee is '' 
Seven Big Ten teams got posrseason tournament bids this year -the most from any conference 10 the country. The closest competitors were the Atlantic Coast with six entries and the PAC 10 with five. 
The top fc,ur finishers in the Big Ten -Indiana, Ohio State, Purdue, and Iowa-were invited to the NCAA tournament, while Minnesota, Michigan and Illi­noise went to the NIT. 
Purdue and Iowa are in the NCAA semifinals, along with the PAC lO's UCLA and Louis­ville of the Southeast Confe renee. 
The NIT final four also includ­ed rwo Big Ten teams . ~innesota and Illinois -along wnh the ACC's Virginia and N~:vada-Las Vegas an independent. Minnesota bumped off Illinois to meet 
[continued on page 17] 
.Believe it or not, Devine cares 
In anything as transient as a university commumty the patterns of change are a wistfully accepted way of life. Freshmen grow Frank up to become sophomores, juniors become seniors and, at Notre Dame, seniors turn into card-carrying, money-giving alumni, complete LaGrotta with green hats, leprechaun neckties and rwo 

tickets to every football game but U.S.C. That's 
why they never make soap operas about college 
life. Everything happens too fast. 
Dan Devine has srent the greater part of his 
life involved with al of ic--26 of his 30 years in 
coaching have been at the college level so he's 
had some time to observe the changes. 
"Oh, the environment is different around 
colleges today," he ponders. "But the 
important element, the kids, are basically the 
same. I have this notion, although sometimes it 
appears a bit naive, that a coach is a teacher. 
At least I like to believe that's my primary role. 
When I was at Mi~souri, they granted me a full 
professorship complete with academic tenure.'' 
And he likes what he's teaching. 
''I have fun coaching football,'' he smiles. ''I love my job 1d I love the people I work with. In fact, the thing I enjoy most is getting to talk to my players and help them through problems boLh on the field and off. It isn't easy being a coach, but it's very rewarding." 
And the rewards don't rest exclusively in the myriad of plaques and trophies that adorn the plaid-pafere~ w~lls (blue and gree~ plaid, wh~t else?) o Devme s tastefully-appomted office. 
.On one wall there's a plaque proclaiming him a Cavanaugh Hall Fellow; on another is the momenta that marks his being named the National Football League's Coach and Man of the Year. He's got game balls and game photos and game paintings and even a congressional proclamation that "officially" made Notre Dame the number one football 
team in 1977. However, he h~s little trouble selecting the most meaningful piece in the collection. 
.. 

"You could have everything in this office but the game balls and this,'' he says, holding a plaque that hangs right next to the door whtch reads: 
"To Dan Devine and the Fighting Irish -Thanks for never giving up The Notre Dame Student Body'' 
''They gave me this after we lost to Southern Cal rwo years ago in that comeback in the Coliseum," he points out proudly. "It means an awful lot to me. '' 
And it's one of the reasons he's as excited about this year's spring practice as he was the first time he stepped on a football field with a whistle. 
"I love it," he says. "But you have to love it because if you don't the pressures and problems will get to you." 
That's something else he's familiar with-­pressures and problems. You see, one does not follow a legend like Vince Lombardi at Green Bay without fe-eling the r.ressure. One does not take over for someone ltke Ara Parseghian at a place like Notre Dame without much more of the sam~. Yet he willingly accepted both positions with equal aplomb. Why? The answer rests in another aspect of Dan Devine's personality that most people never see. "I guess I like pressure," he grins. "In fact, you might say I thrive on it.'' 
Which comes as a surprise to someone first observing his almost sleepy mild manner and passive, soft-spoken ways. 
[continued on page 17] 
1Fuzzy-cheeked'frosh key UCLA 
LOS ANGELES (AP) -Larry Brown is used to working with the professionals so it came as a surprise when the first-year coach of the UCLA Bruins came up with fuz.zy-cheeked fresh­men in his backcourt. 
He truly did trv not to do it. It 
wasn't his original idea. 
Brown started with lettermen sophomores Tony Anderson and Tyren Naulls at the guard spots. 
Then Rod Foster and Michael Holton began taking control with Foster the shooter and Holton setting up the offense for the young Bruins, who barely made it into the NCAA tournament after finishing fourth in the Pacific-10. 
The guards set things up but another move by Brown, mov-sdnifinals group of four. ing 6-foot-6 Mike Sanders to the "I always felt we had a high post despite his lack of size future, but I didn't know when put the Bruins on their winning the future would be," said way. Brown Tuesday. "I feel very 

They've lost only three times good that people continue to since that switch. come to look at UCLA and they 
Looking forward to meeting have seen the improvement we Purdue in the semifinals of the continued to exhibit this year. NCAA championships, the "I've told my kids to feel Bruins can look back on their good about what they have domination of the tourney in the accomplished this year, but past 15 years, with 10 champ-now that we've made the Final 10nships berween 1964 and Four, we should go after it, 1975. because I've always believed in 
Those were theJohn Wooden this team, all year long. teams but nobody expected "I want them to appreciate Larry Brown, in his first season what they have accomplished, and without a conference but I want them to go out and champion, to come close. Yet in play the way they are capable of the playoffs, the Bruins beat playing." Old Dominion, DePaul, Ohio Freshman Foster is the high-State and Clemson to reach the er scorer with an 11.4 average, 
======~==========================while Holton is at 5.2. Foster,
· · from New Britain, Conn., is
Crum plans ~othing new for Iowa 6~;~t :~!r"ll: tr.~~~i~;e r., 
LOUISVILLE, Ky. (AP) ­
Louisville Coach Dennv Crum 
has revealed his secret plan for 
defeating Iowa in Saturday's 
NCAA semifinal basketball 
game at Indianapolis. 

"We're not going to do anything different," Crum said after a recent l?ractice. "If you can't win by domg what got you where you are, then you can't win at all." 
The Cardinals got where they are by cm 1bining a blistering full-court press with a fast­break offense. Their 31-3 record attests to the success of Crum 's strategy in his ninth year at Louisville. 
"We want to make the other teams play the full 94 feet for the entire game," he said. 
"Very few teams have been 
able to keep up with us." 
Part of Crum' s rationale for 
using the press is that ''with 
our size and youth we'd get 
killed if we didn't force the 
other teams to play our style." 
However, Crum admits that that style of play has also caused some/roblems for the second-ranke Cardinals. 
"We are a quick, explosive team that plays with a lot of emhusiasm. But the constant press causes spurts," Crum said. 
Those spurts showed up dramatically in Louisville's NCAA Midwest Region victor­ies. Two of the games ended in overtime. 
Against Kansas State in its first tournament game, Louis ville squandered a 61-54 lead with 7:44 remaining to force an overtime with the score 67-67. The Cardinals won 71-69 on a last-second shot. 

In the second round against Texas A&M, Louisville out­
scored the  Aggies  13-2  in  
overtime  to  pull  out  a  66-5 5  
victory.  

And a~ainst Louisana State in the Mtdwest Championship game, Louisville trailed by as many as eight points in the ftrst half. In typical Cardinal fash­ion, they spurted to a 31-29 advantage at halftime, and went on to win, 86-66. 
[continued on page 18] 
Bookstore sign -ups 
Registration for the 1980 Bookstore Basketball Tourna­ment will take place this Sun­day, March 23, from 1 to 3 p.m. in the LaFortune Ballroom, according to retiring commis­sioner Leo Latz. A registration fee of $2 will be collected at this time and rwo captains from each team must be present at registration. Any Notre Dame student, faculty or staff rpem ber is eligible to participate, but there is a limit for three football players permitted on each team. Latz stresses that there is a 320 team limit for the tourna­ment, so it is advisable to register on Sunday. 
~ -~ • ---~ \,. ~. ... • •' ,._ J ~ • .. ' ..... ' "' '\ ... .. • ... ....... 'W· .. _, .......-~·· 
' ..
''.
'' 

Notre Dame 
Obse~rver 
0725'1314 

111111111111 11111111111 11111111111111 1111 
016390 

Box: 14 
Volume: 14 
Issue: 111(112) 
Day: Mon 
Date : 3/24/1980 12:00:00 AM 
Notes: 
Issue # Missing (may not exist) : 
Issue # Missing (probably not published) : 

WCHAfuture-Page 12
' ' ' 


VOL. XIV, NO. 111 an independent srudem newspaper serving notre dame and saint mary's MONDAY, MARCH 24, 1980 
ND rele.ases sports proposal to comply with Title IX 
by Michael Lewis Exe_cutive News Editor 

Notre Dame released its long-awaited proposal to comply with Title IX Saturday, calling for a major women's basketball program, cutbacks in the present hockey program, and major efforts to "improve athletic revenues" by charging students for football tickets, raising ticket prices, and creating an athletic endowment. 
Hockey is the only current sports program that will lose scholarships under the proposal. The plan will be presented to the Board ofTrustees for approval, probably when the full Board meets on campus beginning May 2. 
In a major break with tradition, Notre Dame students will be charged for football tickets. Students will be able to buy tickets at a 50 percent discount. The plan calls for an increase in football ticket price to $12 per game, so students can expect pay $6 per game next fall. 
The initial women's grant-in-aid will be concentrated in women's basketball, which is expected to begin Division I competition in three to four years. The University's women's team currently competes in Division III. 
Athletic Director Edward krause said the University will ''go all out" to field a top-flight women's team, but said that other women's sports will receive grants-in-aid "right away." 
Krause did not know exactly how many scholarships will be offered to women ne·xt year. Richard "Digger" Phelps, coach of the ND men's ream, will assume overall responsibility for the women's program. 
Krause added that the University will begin interviews for a new coach of the women's team, and that current coach Sharon Petro will be one of those considered. 
The University will reduce the cost of hockey by decreasing hockey scholarships from 20 to 18 next season. Further cuts were The three student aid granted." .
by Kelli Flint l
implied by the statement, but Krause said he does not know what programs that will probably not ''There was senous concern
Senior StaffReporter . I
further measures will be taken. be affected by the budget over the Guaranteed Student Hockey ticket prices will also increase, but Krause was unable to President Carter's budget situation are the Supplement­Loan program before the bud­specify the amount. Students now pay $1 per game with a season ary Educatinal Opportunity get cut," Russo said. "Be­
cuts will probably have a
ticket, and $1.50 per game at the door. Other hockey spectators Grant (program), the College cause of the budget cut, the
negative effect on two of the 
pay $3 per game. Work-Study program, and the senate is looking more closely
five federally funded financial
In addition, Notre Dame will try to reduce the travel costs of National Direct Student Loan at the amounts of the program 
aid programs at Notre Dame,
participating in the Western Collegiate Hockey Association. The program (NDSL). "Carter's and its cost to the govern­
according 'to Joserh Russo, 
budget cuts will not affect the ment.''
[continued on page 3] Oirector of Financia Aid. 
tentative appropriations · made According to Russo, one for these programs for the aspect of the Guaranteed Loan 1980-81 term," Russo said. program that the senate may ''These programs are campus­consider is the ~:Jideline for based, and will probably elif;ibility. "Family income remain the same as this year." gutdelines are currently not a
Shah lelaves Panama for EgY.Pt 
The two programs facing pos­factor for a student's eltgibility sible problems are the Basic as a result of the passage of Educational Opportunity Grant the Middle Income Students (BEOG) program and the Guar­Assistance Act in 1978," Russo PANAMA CITY,Panama Sadat's longstanding invitation Panamanian ambassador to rhe 
of asylum. anteed Student Loan program. said. ''Any student is current­
(AP) -The deposed shah of United States Gabriel Lewis. 
''These have become the first ly able to take a loan andIran left Panama for Egypt However, spokesmen for Visibly sad, the former shah 
Sadat issued another denial and second most expensive receive federal interest subsid­
yesterday aboard a chartered thanked Panama for its hos­pitality. federal aid programs in recent ies while in school. TheAmerican jet, ending a 100-day yesterday that the Shah was en years," Russo said. "There is current l::udget situation couldresidence in this tropical coun­route to Egypt. Panamanian television re­
try where he faced extradition A Panamanian air force ported that Jordan and Tor­concern over the growing cost mean a closer look at the lack 
increase ofthese programs.''· _ of income ceilings in the pro­
proceedings, U.S. and officer who asked not to be rijos, a former Panamanian Panamanian officials reported. identified said White House prt:sident, met with the shah The maximum BEOG allot­gram.'' advisor Hamilton Jordan also Saturday on Contadora Island, ment was $1800 this year. Russo added that there may
White House security advisor left Panama for Washington where the former monarch has "An increase to $1900 was very possibly be an increase inZbigniew Brzezinski said in being considered,'' Russo said. 
apoard a U.S. government lived since Dec. 15 after receiv­interest rates on loans. Pre­Washington that the self-exiled )Ct. Jordan arrived here ing medical treatment in the "Due to cutbacks, the extra sently interest on the NDSL ismonarch left Panama in order 
Friday, apparently to arrange United States. $100 will probably not be 
to receive medical attention. [continued on page 3]
the shah's departure.

Physicians have said the shah Tht · Panamanian officer said suffers from lymphatic cancer, the shah was aboard a DC-8 jetwhich may have spread to his chartered from Evergreenspleen. 
Director ofSecurity Terry wishes to handle
International Airlines of 

Iran's revolutionary regime, Oregon. A Panamanian air seeking the return of the shah traffic controller said the com­
recent complaint by NDstudentpersonallyon char~es ofmass murder and 
pany had filed a flight plan corrupuon, has said that his which called for a refueling

departure from Panama would by Margie Brasszl 
stop in the Azores Islands in Sunday night when Geraci to indirectly threaten him. delay the release of about 50 the Atlantic Ocean at 8 p.m. SMC News Editor tried to get his ID in return for Geraci spoke with Terry when American hostages held by EST~ a 15 n;tinute pass. According to he filed his complaint on Tues. 
militants in Tehran. A legal The officer said the shah, Director of Security, Glenn Geraci, he went twice to the Terry had then said he would representative for Iran said accompanied by his wife Terry has decided to personally Main Gate for his ID. The try and get a hearing set upSaturday he planned to meet a Farah, eight aides, their pet handle the complaint brought second time, he made a wise­with Geraci, the guards, and a Monday deadline 1to file dogs, and 1000 pounds of against three ND security crack to the guards. Garcia University representative. Ac­evidence with Panamanian luggage, departed from guards by a student last reportedlly then flared up at cording to Terry, he had re­authorities to support the case. Tocumen Airport here at about Tuesday. The complaint was Geraci. ferred the matter to Dean 
A Panamanian government 1:40 p.m. EST. filed by Sophomore Gordon "He threw down his badge Roemer, who then referred it spokesman said the shah, At midday, Shah Moham­Geraci against Ray Garcia, and said he was resigning. He back to him. "having received a personal mad Reza Pahlavi, 60, and his Tom Costa, and Ken Wilbur, then began cussing at me and ''It is better for me to handle 
invitation from Egyptian wife flew on a small private charging them with verbal came foreward as if to hit me it than in the department," President Anwar Sadat, chose plane from their residence on abuse and harassment. and had to be restrained by said Terry. "I don't have the to move to Cairo." Brzezinski Panama's Contadora Island, The incident berween Geraci Costa,'' claimed Geraci. Geraci necessary mechanism to get a also said the shah had accepted accompanied by former and the guards occurred last alledges that Costa then began [continued on page 4] 

•

taxpayers eight billion dollars to settle in Arab cityfor first trme 
News in brief 
Grain embargo costs 
....Monday, March 24, 1980 -page 2 · 
Israeli Cabinet allows Jews 
NASHVILLE, Ind. (AP)-The U.S. embargo on gr~in sales to Russia is costing American taxpayt"rs $8 btllt?n and farmers another $1 btllion in lost grain sales, the pre~tdent of the world's largest farm organization says. ?peakmg to a group of Indiana Farm Bureau leaders, Davtd L. Browne, prestd(·nt of the American Farm Bureau, noted that ~orne of the lo~s can be recouped through salc;s to Mext.co, the People's Republic of Chma and some Afrtcan countries. But <;O far, no sales have been completed, he said. 
Economist Arthur Okun dies ofheart attack at 51 
WASHINGTON (AP)-Arthur M. Okun, one of the nation's most highly . respected economists and consultant. to presidents, d1ed Sunday, a spokesman at the Brookmgs Institution reported. Okun was 51. James Viana, a spokesman f(,r the non-profit research institution where Okun was l senior fellow tn economics, said Okun suffered a massive hcan arrack at his Washington home. A liberal and a Democrat. Okun was the key economic adviser to President Johnson during a perio~ of rapid expansion of government programs ro a1d the natton's dtsadvantaged. 
Japanese-American senator proposes internment 
LOS ANGELES (AP) -Sen. S. I. Hayakawa says it's "too bad" if fellow Japanese-Americans do!l't !_ike his plan for interning Iranian cttizens "the way ~e dtd wtth the Japa_nese in \\'orld War II." In an exchange wtth Rep. Norman Mmeta and Rep. Robert Matsui, the senator told his fellow Japanese-Americans, "I want t? ma~e i~perfectly clear-th~s is different from the .Japanese sttuauon. Hayakawa satd hts proposal would define U.S. embassies as U.S. territory, making citizens of any nation invading an embassy subject to arrest, detainment or deportation. 
Weather 
Periods of rain with a high in the upp~r 40s. Rain e~ding at night with overnight lows in the mtd 30s. Constderable cloudiness and cool Tuesday. High in the low 40s. 
CamP-_u_s------~ 
12:10 pm TEACHING/LEARNING SEMINAR "computer assisted instruction," prof. william davidson, nd, sponsored by educational media. 242 O'SHAG. 
12:15 pm DEVELOPMENT WORKSHOP "rransnationals, imernational oligopoly & uneven development: the literature," prof. richard newfarmer, nd. sponsored by the emnnmics dept. LIBRARY LOUNGE. 
4:15 pm LECTURE "inflation, basic necessities & the distribution of economic power," gar alperovitz, nat'l renter for economic alternatives, wash., d.c. sponsored by economics dept. 122 HAYES HEALY. 
6:45 pm ROSARY daily at the GROTTO. 
7:PO pm MOVIE "mutiny on the bounty," sponsor~d.by the nd historical society & the history dept. $1 admtsston I.IHHARY AUD. 
-; oo pm VISITING ARTIST LECTURE arturo sandoval, fiber arri!'r. u. of kentucky. sponsored by smc art dept. 232 ~IORF/\l1 HAIL 
-(I() pm RECITAL organ & harpsichord recital by philip l!chsl her. GRACE UNITED METHODIST CHURCH 3012 S. l\\'YCKENHAM. 
-.\0 prn FILM "muriel," sponsored by dept of sp/dr. \X'.ASHINGTON HALL. 
8:00pm SMOKER ncaa smoker sponsored by the knights of columbus. $1 admission, members free. K OF C HALL. 
10:00 pm MEETING students united for responsible energy. discussing plans for earth day. BASEMENT OF LAFORTUNE. · 
ll-12 pm RADIO wsnd ''talk it _up,'' call !n ~adio talk show. topic: future of the campus hfe comf!!tsston. two guest speakers with host pat toomey. Call to at 6400 or 7425, WSND AM 64. 
JERUSALEM (AP) -In a decision likely to complicate already stalled palestinian au­tonomy negotiations, the Israe­li Cabinet voted for the first time to let Jews settle in an occupied Arab city. 
The Cabinet approved by an 8-6 vote, with three absten­tions, a proposal to establish two schools in which Jewish students would live full-time in the Arab city of Hebron on the West Bank of theJordan River. 
The last Jewish residents of · Hebron lefi the city after Arab rioting in 1929. 
Opponents of the settlement plan said they would appeal the vote to the Foreign Affairs and Security Committee in the Israeli Parltament, and Prime Minister Menachem Begin a­greed to delay action until the committee meets. The Parlia­ment begins a one-month re­cess Thursday. 
Israel has built more than 50 settlements on the occupied West Bank but has not allowed Jews to settle in Arab cities. However, Begin has come un­der pressure from right-wing Israelis to carry out the Hebron move. 
The settlement issue is re­garded as one of the major stumbling blocks to a success­ful conclusion, targeted for May 26, of Palestinian autono­my negotiations. There has been little progress in the talks to determme the nature and extent of the autonomy, and President Carter has sum­moned Begin and Egyptian President Anwar Sadat to Washington for separate meet­ings mext month. 
~The Observer_ Night Editor: Teri Michielutti Asst. Night Editor: Mary Kasper, Deirdre Murphy Copy Edztor: Lynne Daley News Edztor: Margie Brassil Editon'al Layout: Ann Gales Features Layout: Sal "Signals Granata Sports Layout: John Smith Typists: Paula "Presents" Shea. Bill Swift, Mary Beth Budd, Marilyn Broderick EMT: Doctor "G" Proofreader: Rick Freedman ND Day Editor: Bob Bernoskie SMC Day Editor: Peggy Schneeman Photographer: Phil Johnson Guest Appearances: Ann Monaghan, Danny Tarullo, Rosie Mills, Jay Saur, Ed "Bugs" Moran. Mind Warp. } ohn ''I feel the end coming'' McGrath, Ziggy, Rosemary, ifjo. , Paperofthe Week goes to John Smith &Company. We miss you]ohn  
Tht Obstrvtr [USPS 511 12DI Is published Monday through Frtdly 11­cept during exam and VICIIIIII ..... The Observer is publisllld by 1111 students rrl Ntllr1 011111 a.d Saint Miry's Cllllgl. Sublcrltllla ""¥ 1t1 purdlasld fir S2l per year l$11 perIIIMitlrbtrorn The ObserVer. Jt.o. ba a. Nttn a1111.111111ana 4llilil. SICIIIII t1au "=f plld, Netrl D11111, Ill­diana . Tne Observer lr 1 llllftllllr If 1111 Asslclatld Pms. All ltptldwltlll rigllta In l'lllf'fld.  

Begin said yesterday. he would respond in the next few days to a letter he had receive d from Sadat and would call a special Cabinet session before leaving for his meeting with Carter. 
Israei news reports said the letter from Sadat to Begin placed responsibility for the outcome of the autonomy talks entirely on Israel. The Egyp­tians have placed greater em­phasis on progress being made by the date set in the Camp David peace accords. 
Israel, Egypt and the United States began negotiations on Palestinian autonomy last May with a one-year deadline for establishing an autonomous A­rab administration on the West Bank and Gaza Strip where there are 1.2 million Palestini­an Arabs. The territories were occupied by Israel in the Mid­east War of 1967. 
The United States and Egypt have been pressing for an end to Jewish settlements on the West Bank. Washington has criticized the settlements as an obstacle to peace. 
The Israeli cabinet declared in February that Jews have the right to settle anywhere in the Btblical land of Israel, which includes the West Band and Hebron, a city of 50,000 Arabs 20 miles south of Jerusalem that is the burial site of the Patriarch Abraham and is con­sidered holy by both Moslems and Jews. 
However, the vote on the Hebron settlements was post­poned more than a month because of its controversial nature. 
Cabinet spokesman John Salem said after yesterday's severn-hour meeting: ''The political implication of the de­cision was the main issue discussed." He also said the Cabinet wanted to make it "very clear and very direct" that Jews would not be barred from Hebron or anywhere else. 
Samaritan Center to hold semtnar 
The Couple Communication Seminar will be held on four consecutive Mondays, March 31, April 7, 14, and 21 from 7 
p.m. to 10 p.m. The fee for the course is $100 per couple which includes the books used. 
Couple communication is an educational program designed to enrich communication be­tween partners (married, living together, friends, colleagues, etc.). It focuses on the processes of flexible and effec­tive interpersonal communica­tion. The program centers on· teaching specific communiction skills and frameworks for deal­ing with day to day issues. 
For more information call the Samaritan Center (277-0274 ) or the leaders (Becky or Jerry) at 288-9001. 

tinights ofQTnlu:!'hun 
sponsors: 
N.C.A.A. Sllloker 
Monday, March 24 KofCHall 
Admission: $1.00 Members: free 
needs photogrophen lor 1980-1981 
Uinterested coD John at 3106 from lllidnipht to1:00 om 
I 
~ 
l 

The Observer Monday, March 24, 1980 -page 3 
Availclble institutionalfun.ds offset recent increase in SMC tuition 

• • • Title IX 

[continued from page 1] 
team will compete .in the WCHA next season, but the University will "explore other options, including membership in a geographically more compact league," according to the statement. 
Student fees for football tickets, a first for Notre Dame, is part of the attempt to increase athletic revenues. With the ticket price increase and the student fee, next season will probably bring record gate receipts for ND football. University President Fr. Theordore Hesburgh said the time had· come to charge students for football tickets. ''I think we were the only school in the world that gave free football tickets to its students," he said. "Now we can't." 
Krause said he believes the student fee will not affect student attendance. "Students pay for hockey and basketball, why not football," he said. 
The proposal also calls for the establishment of an athletic endowment to help meet the costs of the University's varsity, club and intramural sports, but neither the statement nor Krause could offer specifics on this endowment. 
Hockey coach Cha.rles "Lefty" Smith called the endowment "a great move." "It has to be done in this day and age," he said . 
. . . Budget 
''From now on anybody who owns a factory that makes radioactive waste has to take it home with him to his house.'' 


--He loves you. Do what he says. -­
AMARTIN BREGMAN Production 
ALAN ARKIN ''SIMON'' 
IWith MADELINE KAHN I 
Executive Producer LOUIS A. STROLLER •Produced by MARTIN BREGMAN Screenplay by MARSHALL BRICKMAN Story by MARSHALL BRICKMAN &THOMAS BAUM Directed by MARSHALL BRICKMAN •TechnicoloJ"l 
© 1980
fPG PARENTAL GUIDANCE SUGGESTED~ Or•on P•rl•rn ComJnn) All ntbll ~M"nHI An OitiOi'f PICTURES Reluse 
tSOME MATEAW. MAY NOT aE SUITML£ FOfll CH~~...DMN Thru WARNER BROS 0 A Warner Communications Company 
OPENING THIS MONTH AT A THEATRE NEAR YOU! 
ly Katie Gilligan 
Due to the recent rise in the tuition feees at Saint Marv's for the 80-81 school year, many students have expressed con· cern in regards to meeting this increased financial demand. However, according to Director of Financial Aid, Kathleen ) effnies, a substantial rise in available institutional funds should permit a bmad range of distribution. 
These funds, which include grants, scholarships and en· dowments, are awarded on the basis of individual need. Although 53 percent of the Saint Mary's student body is on some type of financial aid, the rise in tuition will only affect the institutional scholar­ship funds. As)effries points out, there will be more funds, and not necessarily more scholarships. In this way, either more lower-figure awards can be given, or per­year's expected enrollment does not show a marked in­crease in those wanting finan­cial assistance. 
Like all types of loans, money from Saint Mary's institutional funds is distributed on the basis of need. "Need" is defined by the family's income, assets, current debts, medical or unusual expenses, the num-· ber of dependents, and the number of dependents enrolled at the post-secondary level. The family is expected to pay a calculated sum, which will then be accompanied by the aid. Although this calculation is federally mandated, there is no clear cut-off point when deter­mining the eligibility of a family. 
Another financial aid division at Saint Mar/s, the Work/ Study Program, which received a $68,000 increase in funds over the '78-'79 school year, is hoping for equal assistance. 
Last year, the program re­

government are used w pay for 
80 percent of the s1udenrs' 
wages, while Saint Mary's 
pays the remaining 20 percent. 
If, however, a student is employed by the college but not because of financial need, then Saint Mary's must pay the full salary. 
Therefore, because there are 
a frozen number of available 
jobs, it is financially advanta­
geous for the college to employ 
only those involved in the 
Work/Study Program. The 
money that Saint Mary's would 
have to use to pay those· not in 
the program can then be 
reallocated for other programs, 
including the institutional 
scholarship program. 
Despite the tuition hike, and 
the rate of inflation, ) effries 
stated that the number of those 
who would seek financial aid 
for the '80-'81 school year 
would remain "fairly con­
stant'', with the possibility of 
only a "slight increase." 
haps, fewer, but more expen­sive ones, can be distributed. During this school year, $330,095 was available, yet due to the new tuition increase, there will be approximately $336,310 available to the stu­dents. Currently, ~·85 students are using these funds, and next 
ceived only $46,260 as opposed to this year's originally slated $75,000 which rose to $114,725. Next year's figures are undeterminable at this time, but ) effries promises a ''comparable student work pro­gram.'' 
The funds received from the 

[continued from page 1] 
three percent, and interest on a Guaranteed loan is seven per­cent. "In the Higher Educa­tion Amendments pending leg­islation, an increase from three to seven percent is proposed for the NDSL," Russo said. 
''The Guaranteed Student Loan faces a possible increase from seven to nine percent. These increases from seven to nine percent. These increases may affect the 1981-82 term." 
''It is not impossible that the budget cutbacks wiH create problems for students this fall, but they will most probably affect students this trme next year," Russo said. "Lender participation in the Guaran.teed Student Loan progr~Lm ts a problem. At pres<:nt, the government pays lenders up to 16 percent on student loans. This is done to increase the availability of loans for stu­dents. If controls and limits are put down, the availability of loans will be reduced. Fewer lenders will be willing to put up with the red tape and possible additional costs.'' 
''The Guaranteed Student Loan program is the most commonly used loan program at Notre Dame," Russo said. "The costs of the program are spiraling." 
''Many students attending private schools have a limited choice between public and private institutions,'' Russo said. "The effects of Carter's budget cut could make it more difficult for these students to attend private institutions." 
Russo added that because of the elections, the significant changes in federal aid will probably not take place until the 1981-82 school year. 
"Public pressure in an election year from middle families who benefit from these programs will greatly offset a major change for the 1980-81 (school) year." 

The Observer 

Last night in the Library Auditon·um, Sr. Maureen Feedler presented a Catholic perspective on the ERA. [photo by P. johnson] 
APPLICATIONS NOW AVAILABLE FOR: 
STUDENT GOVT. CABINET POSITIONS 
Pick up applications from S.G. Secretary, 2nd floor ofLa Fortune 
Applications due by thurs. march 27th 
EARN OVER $730 A MONTH DURING YOUR SENIOR YEAR. 
Interested in math, physics or engineering? Then you could earn as much as $730 a month, for the rest of yoW' senior year, in the Navy's NUPOC-Collegiate Program (NUPOC) is short for Nuclear Propulsion Officer Candidate). 
If you qualify, then upon graduation you'll get 16 weeks of Officer Candidate School, and an additional year of advanced technical educational. Education that would cost thousands in civilian life but in the Navy we pay you. And you'll receive a $3,000 cash bonus at the end of yoW' training year. 
It isn't easy. But those who make it fmd themselves in one of the most elite engineering training programs anywhere. With unequalled hands-on responsibility 
and a $24,000 salary in foW' years.  
-For more details, simply see your Navy Programs Representative, when he is on  ificer ..mpus  
Or call (collect) 312-657-2171.  

Monday, March 24, 1980 -~page 4 
Sr. Maureen Feedler lectures on Catholic viewpoint ofERA 
by Mary Ellen Woods 

Sr. Maureen Feedler, repre­senting Catholics for ERA, addressed a small crowd in the Library Auditorium Lounge last night. In her lecture, Feedler presented a Catholic perspec­tive on the Equal Rights Amendment. 
Drawing from "a distinctive Catholic, religious and scriptor­al tradition," Sr. Feedler ex­amined the text of the ERA. She pointed out that the pro­posed amendment consisted of only 52 words. 
The amendment is prohibi­tive, she emphasized. It does not force any action, nor is there any connection with abor­
tion  or  the  use  of  lavatory  
facilities.  
''Equality for  men  and  wo­ 

men is an integral part of the Judeo-Christian tradition," noted Feedler. Vatican II, for­mal Church doctrine, states that any form of discrimination is contrary to God's intent. Sr. Feedler sees ERA as an imple­mentation of the teachings of Vatican II. She also pointed to the gospel as a norm for equal rights, citing Jesus' treatment of the women of his day. 
Sr. Feedler emphatically told the audience of the situation today for the women of Amer­ica. "Women earn $.59 for every $1 that men earn," explained Sr. Feedler, quoting a U.S. Government report. 
This situation is not getting better. ''In fact the difference is broadening," she said. In the last decade, women earned $.63 for every $1 earned by men. 
This discriminatory situation can only be corrected by ERA, according to Feedler. The ERA will guarantee equal rights for both men and women. 
Sr. Feedler proposed to end her often dramatic presentation with a discussion of the myths and distortions surrounding the ERA. In fact, her comments were concerned solely with the connection of abortion and the proposed amendment. 
''The ERA is guilty by asso­ciation in regards to the ques­tion of its relation to abortion,'' demonstrated Sr. Feedler. 
ERA has no legal connection with abortion, according to Feedler. It proports to deal with the protection of those rights that are of concern to both men and women. As Sr. Feedler pointed out, men cannot be­come pregnant. Pregnancy be­ing a necessary precondition to the desire for an abortion, the question of equal rights and abortion can and will not be tied to ERA, she said. 
The floor was then opened to questions from the audience. Sr. Feedler was asked to com­ment on the need for ERA in light of the Fourteenth Amend­ment and the Civil Rights Amendments. She noted that as presently interpreted, "these are not grounds for protection against sex discrimination. " · 
An interesting point was 
raised regarding the benefits of 
ERA to men. According to Sr. 
Feedler, the rights to be grant­
ed alimony and child custody, 
as well as the responsibility of 
women to aid in military duty 
would be of service to men. 

The discussion frequently de­volved to heated debate as Sr. -Feedler was asked to defend ERA against ar~uments ques­tioning its effectivity, relevancy and ability to protect the rights of women in particular situa­tions. Sr. Feedler replied con­fidently, if emotionally, that she knew how the amendment would be implemented, point­ing to the ridiculousness of the fear that men and women would be forced to share the same rest room facilities. 
Sr. Feedler requested sup­port of the Notre Dame· com­munity in the up-coming na­tional, Pro-ERA march on Chicago on May 10. The march on Ch1cago is viral, according to Sr. Feedler, in the drive to have Illinois ratify ERA before the 1982 deadline. 
... Security 

[continued from page I] 
hearing together." Terry ad­
ded that there was no set procedure for handling this type of incident. 
According to Terry, the guards' version of the incident differed from Geraci's. The guards claimed it was Geraci who was belligerent when he tried to get his ID returned. 
Terry said the matter will be handled confidentially. ''Any problems with personell is a 
confidential matter. What I 
decide could possibly lead to 
friction on campus, which 
would not be good," he said. 
Geraci could file a complaint with Roemer against Terry's actions, according to Terry. He added, however, that his decision concerning the guards would be final. 
Geraci said he would talk with Terry about the matter before going to Roemer. 

Arts Festival enters finalplanningstages 
Man"beth Moran Anyone interested in parti­Senior StaffReporter cipating in the Festival should contact one of the following The Senior Arts Festival has people; Architecture, Rick gone into the final planning Burroughs at 7695; Dramatic stages, according to Kim Performances or Original Films Gumz, this year's chairman. -Liz Bathon at 277-3288; Poetry 
''This year is the testing and Prose -Dave Perry at 8836; ground for it (the festival). Last Dance-Chris LeBlanc at 1327; year it was an innovation. The Music Performances -Laura Festival should continue on, Sisson at 1674, and Art Works­and to do this it should prove its Bruce Richardson at 1354 or validity," Gumz said. ·Beth Scweitzer at 6785. 
Senior Arts will run from Sunday, April 12 through Saturday, April 19 and will feature seniors' creations in various fields of the fine and 
Observer 

performing arts. Works of senior artists will be 
approves

featured in the Isis Gallery all week long, along with musical performances at the Nazz. This year for the first time, the 
promotions
Festival will include some 
musical performances at Senior 
Bar. 

The Observer production de­Washington Hall will be partment has approved rwo utilized for dramatic perfor­
promotions in addition to those mances and readings as well as 
announced last week. the showing of some films Danny Tarullo, a junior busi­produced by the members of ness major from Waltham, 
the class. Mass., will assume the position 
Gumz emphasized that parti­of Night Editor on Tuesday cipation in the Festival is not nights, effective immediately. limited to majors in the fine and The postion of Senior Night 
performing arts desciplines. Editor has been reinstituted 
"It can bring an entire class and will be filled by Margaret together. It is also probably the Kruse, a sophomore from last time we will do such a large Edina, Minn. Kruse's appoint­scale activity together,'' she ment will take effect after remarked. 
spring break. 
I f I I j J L ~ I I I I I I 1 1 1 1 I J' .,,, 1 t I I I I I I I I 1 ' ' 

The Observer . Monday, March 24, 1980 -page 5 

Student Uriion a~nounces '!ew commzsszoners: Fir:st Row -Anne Villeneuve, Paul Rob.erge, Da_le Robznson, Marilyn Ma_yer; 2nd Ro_w-Mz"ke Method, Tom Drovzllard, Betsy Sendan, Bna1~ Leahy; 3rd Row-Bnan Pech, Bz/1 Lawler, Bob Gerth, Rz"ch Coppola; and Absent-Kevm Conry [photo by P. Johnson] 
Kenne,dy campaigns to overcc>me underdog image while Reagan' relaxes 
(AP)-Sen. Edwe~rd M. Ken­nedy worked yesterday to over­come his underdog tmage in New York's delegate-rich pres­idential primary this week, while a relaxed, confident Ron­ald Reagan all but rejected his 
Republican  rivals  as  possible  
vice  presidential'  running  
mates.  

And in an incident that could cause him trouble :in the agri­cultural heartland, Reagan told a farm audience in Wichita, Kan., he was not familiar with full parity -a federaly subsidiz-
Dorms to be sec1'..tred overbretlk 
The residence halls will be secured during the forth-com­ing Spring Semestt:r break. Access can be obtained to these halls through one door only. All other doors will be chain locked. If a student in staying during the break, he or she should contact the Rector and obtain a key. 
The North Dining Hall will close after the noon meal on Thursday, March 27. Those students remaining for the dinner meal will bave their meal cards honored at the South Dining Hall. The South Dining Hall will close after the dinner meal on Thursday, March 27. Both Dining Halls will resume the regular meal schedule beginning with the dinner meal on Monday, April 7. 
The public cafeteria will be open for meals on a cash basis during the break. Their sche­dule is as follows: 
Friday, March 29-7:20-6:30 p.m. 
Saturday, March 29 -7:30 a.m. -6:30p.m. Sunday, March 30-8:ooa.m. ­6:30p.m. 
Monday, March 31 thru Thursday, April 3-7:30a.m. ­6:00p.m. 
Good Friday, Aprii -7:30 a.m.-1:00 p.m. and 4:00p.m. -6:00p.m. 
Saturday, April 5-7:30a.m. -6:30p.m. -Easter Sunday, April6-8:00 a.m. -2:00p.m. Monday, April 7 -Regular Hours 
ed price level for farm products 
that is a major political !ssue in 
the Middle West. 
''I'm going to stay in the 
race," Kennedy on a national 
television interview before he 
toured a poor black neighbor­
hood in New York City and met 
with Orthodox Jews. 
The Massachusetts senator, who so far has won only two primary and caucus contests compared with President Car­ter's 18 election triumphs, again attacked Carter's hand­"ling of economic, energy and 
foreign issues. 
Kennedy said he would not 
withdraw from the race even if 
Democratic Party leaders asked 
him to. 
Meanwhile, a Gallup poll 
done for Newsweek magazine 
said Carter and Reagan were 
running about neck and neck in 
vm....-s' eyes if they are the 
major party nominees. Forty­
five percent of those question­
-::d leaned toward Carter and 44 
percent toward Reagan in the 
poll, which has a margin of 
error of 4 percent either way. 
Forty-eight percent, inci­
dentally, replied that they 
thought the primaries thus far 
were not a good way to choose 
the best-qualified candidates, 
while 40 percent approved of 
the system. 
At stake in the New York 
primary tomorrow are 282 dele­
gates to the Democratic 
National Convention in New 
York next August. On the 
same day, primary voters in 
Connecticut will select 54 con­
vention dele~ates. 
A public opmion poll conduct­ed by the Social Science Re­search Center at the University of Connecticut, released Satur­day, said that 45 percent of Democratic voters and 42 per­cent of Republicans were un­decided which way they will vote tomorrow. 
Senior Formal .to take reservations 
Reservations for the senior formal will be taken tomorrow in the LaFortune lobby from 10 
a.m. to 5 p.m. Student.s must have already purchased a ticket in order to secure a table. 

The poll said Democrats fav­ored Carter over Kennedy by 34 percent to 18 percent. Among Republicans who had made up their minds, the survey showed, Reagan had about 24 percent, Bush 17 percent and Anderson 12 per­cent. 
Reagan meanwhile made his first campaign visit to Kansas, where he appears to be an easy front-tunner in the state's first presidential primary April 1, "We're well organized here," Reagan said in Wichita. The former California gover­nor was asked at a news conference whether either of 
[continued on page 8] 

ROCCOS I 
men's and women's hairstyling at comfortable prices 5 31 N. 1\1ichigan 233-4957 
I An Important Reminder from I 

Coppola announces 
su c~ommissioners 
Rich Coppola, Student Union Director for next year, has announced the Student Union Commissioners for 1980-81. The commissioners were chosen after the completion of an application and iuterview process conducted last week. 
Selected as the Associate Direct@r for next year is Dale Robinson, a junior psychology major from New Orleans, La. Robinson is currently the Breen-Phillips hall president. 
Marilyn Mayer, a sophomore government major from Cincin­nati, OH. has been chosen as the Academic Commissioner. Mayer has worked on the Sophomore Literary Festival this year. 
Sophomore Kevin Conry has been harned as Executive Co­ordinator. Conry, a mechanical engineer from Urbandale, IA., is presently serving as the Student Unton Calendar Office Coordinator. 
The current Movie Commis­sioner, Anne Villeneuve, is returning to serve in the same post next year. Villeneuve is a Junior from Los Angeles, (.A., majoring in bio-chemistry. 
Mike Method, a sophomore pre-med from Elkhart, IN., is the new Services Commis­sioner. Method is presently a member of the Services Com­mission where he has served as Free University Co-ordinator. 
Appointed as Cultural Arts Commissioner is sophomore Bill Lawler. Lawler, a lacrosse team member, is a government and English major from Bethes­da, MA. Lawler has appeared in several ND-SMC theatre productions in the past two years. 
Junior Brian Leahy, a busi­ness a.cd music major from Tiffin, Ohio, is the new Con­certs Commissioner. Leahy has professional promoting exper­Ience through his work with the St. John Hollow Corporation. 
The Social Commi<;sioner for next vear is Tom Drouillard. Drouillard, a sophomore mar­ketitlg major from Dowagiac, MI, has been a member of the Social Commission for th( lasr two years. 
Paul Roberge, a junior aero­space engineer from Bellport; NY, is the new Ticket Office Manager. Roberge currently works in the Ticket Office. 
Calender Office Co-ordinator for next year is Betsy Sheridan. A sophomore finance major from Tallahassee, FL, Sheridan has worked in the Calendar Office for two years. 
Junior Brian Pech has been appointed Campus Press Pro­duction Manager. Pech, a finance major from Hamburg, NY, is presently working a£ Campus Press. 
Student Union Comptroller Bob Gerth announced the se­lection of commission comptrol­lers for next year. They are Pat Harvey, Social; Matt Barrett, Academics; Diane DeBoer, Campus Press; Bob Westrick, Concerts; Vicki Miller, Movies; John Moore, Cultural Arts; Jean Menoni, Services; and Mike Sexton, Ticket Office. 
Anyone who is interested in 

working for the Student Union 
next year can leave their name 
at the SU offices on second floor 
LaFortune or by contacting the 
commissioners. 
Editorials 
'Monday, March 24, 1980-page 6 
A daring andthinking 
Republican 
Colman McCarthy 

WASHINGTON--As a dark among mules. But that doesn't horse turned into a bright make him a thoroughbred.horse, the galloping John An­A large debt, for sure, is derson of Illinois has had a owed him for the lively politics change of fortunes equal to his he has offered so far. It's been change of views. good theater. He speaks his 
In his early years in Con­own mind. He doesn't care gress, 1962 and 1963, his much for safe applause lines. conservative voting record He has said a few things that 
earned him two zeros from the will end up in the quotation
Americans for Democratic Ac­books. Best of all, he has made tion, the watchers of the left. the right kind of enemies: Then he went wild and soared those Republicans whose to 8 and 11. But in 1966, as thought, as George Orwell de­
Ford proves crime canpay 
though the 8 and 11 were scribed a mind set of his day,Pat Toomey numbers on a timetable and he ''is a kind of playing with fire was holding a through ticket to by people who don't even know 
It appeared to be an open and shut case. From identical tG the 1971 and 1972 models, Neal reckless liberalism, he jumped that fire is hot.'' l'J7l rhmugh 1976, Ford Motor Co. had sold the argued that only documents dealing with the off the train and went back Conceding all that, and even ~to X knowing that it was not a safe car. Ford's 1973 model should be allowed as evidence. again to zero (His latest rating being grateful for it, the cheer­own crash tests had shown that the fuel tank Incredibly, Judge Harold Staeffeldt agreed. .. was 55). ing for Anderson may be pre­bjp1ured in crashes at speeds as low as 18 With the documents out of the way, the After Massachusetts and mature. No one yet knows 11Ql.h. Ford e~gine;;ers had come up with a "closing speed" ofthe Ulrich PU:lto.and the van Vermont of 1980, the zeros exactly how free he is of his old number of modtficattons that would have made became the key issue. A(;cording to the Anderson gets now are from the positions or of the thinking1he car much safer at a cost of less than $10 per prosecution, the Pinto was going anywhere from right. Headlines call him a processes that led to those vohide, but they had been rejected. 15 to 35 m.p.h. while the van was going )0 liberal, and he presents himself positions. He told the gun
:·In 1978, Ford stArted co pay a price for their m.p.h. at the time of the crash, a dosing speed as a maverick moderate. It is a lobby in New Hampshire where decisions. Government pressure had finally of 15 to 35 m.p.h. The defense agreed that the new public perception, though to go last month, but in 1971, fOrced Ford ro recall the car and make van was going 50 m.p.h., but claimed that the Anderson himself saw it coming when he came up against the f!Jprovements, but by then, the damage had car was stopped when the crash occured. No one as far back as 1970 when he told supersonic transport zealots, he illready been done. People had burned to death could be expected to withstand this Jdnd of an interviewer that except for took safe refuge in the ·jobs in. Pinto crashes, and lawsuits were poppins up. crash, they claimed, > · the "real rightwingers" back in argument: he supported SST One jurv in California had awarded $127 m1llion Cosentino produced seven ey~wli:nesses who his congressional district, he appropriations because aircraft c0 a cra5h victim. But the biggest trouble of all stared that the car was moving at speeds up to 35 . was supported by all factions of employees--expecially those in was brewing in Elkhart, Indiana. m.p.h. at the time of the crash. Fotd liad M Republicans and Democrats. his own disrnct--shouldn't be 
·That August, three teenagers, Judy, Lynn, eyewitnesses, so they did the next best thing. The right, he said, "thinks that asked to retrain themselves for and Donna Ulrich, had burned to death when They had already used their limitless resources because I've moderated some other work. their 1973 Pinto was struck from behind by a to dig up any dirt they could find about of the positions I held origi­It is heartening that John van. In September, County Prosecutor Michael prosecution witnesses. They. now •.us·e·d·· ..th~~e nally, I'm sort of Benedict Anderson has been moving Cosentino got a grand jury to indit;t Fotd for same resources to hunt down two . hospital Arnold.'' more and more to the left. But m:kless homicide. A legal precedent was being employees who had spoken w the car's driver Although the hanging parties when lifted out of the context of attempted. · before she died. According to both 'employees, of the right won't be stringing backward Republicanism and 
Our judicial system has always employed a she said she had stopped the car to pick up the up Anderson now, the question placed into the context of the "pocketbook" strategy for corporate offenders. gas cap when the accident occured (she had ~or everrone else, particularly political renewal that the tense It has been assumed that fines will stop forgotten to replace the cap at aself. service gas liberals, 1s whether Anderson is times call for, he brings to mind corporations from acting illegally. Unfortunate· station) .,,g;. refreshing merely because he is the remark ofW.H. Auden: "It ly, when your pocketbook contains a few billion Ford followed up these witnesses by ;bowing 3: daring and thinking Repub­is a sad fact ofour culture that a doll.a.rs, no fine is big enough to hurt you. the jury models of other subcompact;s. Previous-ltcan among the rote and the poet can earn much more 
~el Cosentino was using a new strategy. If ly, Judg~ Staeffeldt had restri·c.t.ed.. th.·e... pr..... osec.u­dull--the Reagans, Bushes and money writing or talking about 
&n~ were not enough to scare a corporation, uon to dtscusstng only ~he 1973 Pm~o but • now other sleep inducers--or is he his art thaf.l he can by practicing
1

jerhaps criminal penalties were. he allowed Ford to d1scuss other 1973 sub-worth noticing because, as Wil­it." With John Anderson, we 
. .Nredless to say, Ford was extremely concern-compacts. Ford's expert witnesses showed t1le liam Haslitt said of Jeremy are excited by the way he talks ed about. this strategy. The Elkhart case was not jury how unsafe these othercars were. The same Bentham, "He meditates the about politics, but we know tt.t important in uself, but it could set a people who rold us how great these cars were coming age.'' little of how he practices it. shattering precedent and destroy Ford's cor-seven years ago were now telling a jury howJ If it's the first, why bother? He is known, for example, as 

e image. Ford hired James Neal, a former uns<1e the cars actually wete.n ·. It was only dumb luck that a religious man. He took his rgate Prosecutor, and gave him a top-notch In the end. Ford was a<:quiqed, of course./. Anderson found himself pitted duties seriously as a trustee of staff A complete law library was set up in Cosentino is now considering an appealbt,tsed otl· against Reagan, Bush, Crane, the Rockford, IL, Evangelical . _ namac, the trial _si_te. Ev~ntually, Ford so~e of Staeffeldt's !l~verse ~li~g~t but !)~& Connally, Baker, and Dole. Free Church. He told his ~d sp~nd over S1 ~ulhon for tcs defense. proba~ly kn;ows the futtltty of!fY1n3 any ~rthe:.:; How could he not seem pro­House colleagues in a floor :;,~eottno, meanwhile, had a $20,000 budget A Californta congressman UtttOduce~ a. 
· found? He may be in for still debate a few years ago that Pda crew ofvolunteers. He did, however, seem which would nave allowed Cosentino·.. ro in more luck, with Gerald Ford stopping "the tide of secu­to have the evidence. Boxes of Ford records duce evidence about other mOdel year Pin . thinking of giving up his life­larism m our land is a most ~ed that they knew rhe Pinto's deficiencies ~ut it will take time for that bill to get passed ·· long goal on the fairways of desirable objective." But this -,hen. they marketed the car. Unfortunately, tt eyer <ioes. For now, Fo~<i ~$: proven. on¢e•y breaking 90, and becommg a is standard fare. Jimmy Carter Cosentino's documents deale with l97l and 1972 a.gam that you can get away wttb, murder ifyQu ;.: candidate. In the context of the is religious, yet his pohtics are ~tos. Aghougb the 1973 Pinto was ;early have C!!!!!llll> 1!191!0!'· j · · ..lll,'iciJiAilix '· i primaries, Anderson is a horse not noticeably altered by the 
teachings of Christianity. 

administration of either institution. 
Editorial Board and Department Managers
The news is reponed as accurately and as objectively as possible. Editorials Edrtor-in-chie{ ........ Rosemary Mills Sports Editor .................. Mack Perry 
_'fhe Observer_ 


&xQ Notre Dame, IN 46556 
TIN Observer is an independent n~spa~r published by the students of the Universiry of Notre Dame du lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the represent the opimon of a majoriry of 
the Editorial Board. Commentaries, opinions and letters are the views of their authors. Column space is avail­able to all members of the community, and _the free expression of varying optntons on campus, through letters, is encouraged. · 
Managing Editor.......... Diane Wilson Editorial Editor.............. Ann Gales Senior Copy Editor......... M. Onufrak Executive News Editor ...... Mike Lewis News Editor ... ................. Mark Rust News Editor .... ............. Mike Shields SMC News Editor ........ Margie Brass11 
Features Editor .....Kathl~n Connelly Photo Editor .............. Doug Christian 
Business Manager ........Steve Odland Production Manager .... John .McGrath Advertising Manager .... M. Holsinger Controller..... .............Kevin Manion Circulation Manager ......Greg Hedges 
..

'. 
Features Monday, March 24, 1980 -page 7  
Fr. Bill TooJ.,ey Jlpocalyps~ ~hen? Francis Ford Coppola is right. It is The best lack all conviction, while It is necessary to take a hard look at world, inundated with evidence for "Apocalypse Now." What was true the worst the Passion, where ] esus faces His despair, we can make our own the for the people of Jesus' day is Are full ofpassionate intensity. own personal apocalypse of pain, words ofScripture: "Shout for joy, 0 applicable today. They were given a judgment and destruction. Jesus' daughter Zton; sing joyfully, 0But there is another purpose offrightening projection of the terrify­personal world collapses wtth as Israel! Be gla_d and exult with all apocalyptic_ writing ~:yond ad~oni­much catastrophe as can be found ining experience of the Last Days. But tion, warmng and final notifica­the most shatterin~ apocalyptic writ­your heart, 0 daughter Jerusalem...the apocalyptic strategy was to draw tion." In the strictest sense, these ing. In the mtdst of His own the Lord is in your midst, you have nofrom such future projections lessons and pointed exhortations for the writers had as their purpose the apocalypse, Jesus was willing to further misfortune to fear.'' Crazy intention to comfort a people distres­believe that the Father was in control Zephaniah could say that at a time ofpresent moment. P·~ople were to sed and anxious about the future by of His world: "Into Your hands I decadence and tragedy. "Rejoice inrealize that, in a real sense, the showing that it is God who is in final commend My spirit.'' the Lord always! I say it again.future was already happening. control of the world. There is the Rejoice! The Lord himself is near."The same is true for us. We don't And then a marvelous thing hap­promise that God will not be absent: Crazy Paul could say that at a time ofhave to go past our morning head­pened. It wasn't the end-time, the"earth and sky may pass away but persecution and crisis. lines to discover the current applica­obliteration of Jesus' world; it wasMy words will never pass away"tion of the catastrophic biblical just the end of waiting for the Have you ever noticed that there (Mark 13, 31). In the midst of badvision. We see, to note but one of beginning ofglory that would have no are probably as many tears at a news, there is good news: The Lord numerous examples, Amnesty Inter­end at all. Which means that Jesus' wedding as at a funeral? The bride's national's annual report, which doc­will be present in His power to message to us is simple: "You see mother way even bring two handker­sustain the people. uments that executions, arbitrary how I lived? You do the same. You chiefs (one for her husband as he arrests and imprisonment and staged Easier said than done. It's a see where I am now? That is your contemplates the bills?). Usually we disappearances contribute to what is challenge to us to believe this, to destiny as well--joy and happiness say that they are tears of joy. But I presently a global pattern of human believe that, in a world obviously out that has no end-time, but is everlast­suspect there is a mixture: tears of rights abuse. of control, God is in control. It's ing ... for those who are faithful to the joy for obvious reasons, and tears of With such data, plus the additional crazy and absurd .. .like every Christ­end!" sorrow with the awareness that many cataclysmic vision of world starvation ian gamble. We are, for example, One last point: Joy is not only our rough days lie ahead for the starry­and impending nuclear war, one meant to live in such a way that it eyed couple. How appropriate this.final destiny; it is meant to be our senses the fulfillment of what Will­would make no sense unless God possession here and now. It follows is; for life is ambiguous. iam Butler Yeats anticipated in his exists, unless God cares. In a world from the crucial fact that God is not All our joys seem tainted withfamous poem, "The Second Com­going crazy, we crazy Christians are only not absent--His life is within u.s. sorrow--the "quiet before theing": · called to affirm joyfully our faith in This is the cause of our joy, in the storm," the pessimist would say.God.Things fall apart; the center cannot midst of all our apocalypses. "]oy," But all of our sorrows seem to fade hold And all we have to go on to do this Leon Bloy once wrote, "is the most away after their initial sharpness-­Mere anarchy is loosed upon the is His word ... and our willingness to infallible sign of the presence of "Time heals all wounds," the opti­world, believe in it. But does He know what God.'' Our joy flows necessarily from mist would say. However, we do The blood-dimmed tide is loosed, He is talking about? That's the the realization that the God who need more than time for a healer. and everywhere question. Does Jesus' own experi­comes to heal, to restore life and to Ultimately, we need God's presence, The ceremony of .innocence zs ence bear out the truth of what He liberate is alive within our hearts. the source of our joy in the midst of drowned; said? Thus in the midst of our crazy our way of the cross.  
Bob Bernoskie and Mary-Fran ~allahan Spring rites and Vernal feasts When in April the swet~t showers fall from the Egyptian yoke. The various gou. Apart from also being the war feet in order to demonstrate their traditions connected with the Hebrew god, Mars was invoked to promoteAndpierce the drough.t ofMarch to reverence for what they considered spring festival were interpretated in the prosperity of crops, flocks, andthe root, and all the pregnant earth. terms of these biblical events. herds in addition to the welfare of the Another spring celebration whichThe veins are bathed in liquor ofsuch Greece offers us Dionysius, god of farmer and his household.power can be more closely identified with, is As brings about the e11genden'ng of Spring. Ceremonies began on Feb. 11 Statements made by St. Augustine the drama of Redemption at the when the second fermentation of in De Civitate Dei, yield informationthe flower ... Easter Festival --a climax of the wine came to an end and was ready on these festivals. and games. Thefrom the Poet ofSpring, liturgical year. In the representationfor drinking. According to Robert Romans sacrificed cows to Tell us Geoffrey Chaucer of the death and resurrection of Vacca, assistant professor of Modern Mater (Earth Mother). Ewes and Christ, the crudities of earlier obser­Spring has always be(~n a time tor and Classical Languages, the Greeks cows were fumigated in order to vances have disappeared. The funda­celebration. Thou~h all ancient civili­were "very uninhibited' in their propogate freely and provide a mental structure, however, has been zations had their unique cultural methods of celebration. Heavy drink­plentiful supply of milk. The Romans retained. festivals, one theme is common to ing followed with lads jumping on believed that if the animals ran Thus Easter in celebrated at the them all. Spring was a time of death wine skins and girls being swung in through ftte, they would be more full moon nearest to the sprin~and rejuvenation, and ancient peo­swings to promote fertility. fertile. equinox between March 21 and Apnlple, out offear and wonder, tradition­Greater Dionysia lasted from The Robi~alia was a ceremony to 25. The blessing of the Easter fire ally honored the gods they saw as March 9-13 and was the last of the avert red mddew from the wheat. It represents a survival of a prominentresponsible for the earth's fertility. Dionysian festivals to be instituted in involved a prayer to Robigus, the custom ofholding fire festivals at this In Egypt, the ancient Feast of Sed, Athens. ·Vacca explained that for placing of incense and wine into a fire season. The Paschal Candle itself has probably the oldest festival of which these five days, everyone from the on an altar, together with the flesh of solar associations and is a life-giving any traces have survived, was enact­lowest slave to the wealthiest citizen sheep and the entrails of a dog. symbol. At first, it illuminated the ed to ensure the rejuvenation of the was equalized in the spirit of celebra­The Floralia celebrated the god­nocturnal Vigil rites, but then it was land. tion. dess of flowering plants. It involved reinterpretated to express victoryThe pharaoh, being the intermedi­When the Greeks held their Diony­licentious games coupled with exces­over sin and death and the power of ary between the people and the gods sian festival, the state even paid for sive drinking. In 173 B.C., the event darkness. and endowed with divinity, was the celebration to insure that every­be1came an annual festival by Senate From Adon, meaning Lord, both required to J?erform the seasonal rites one could enjoy the coming of the decree. The obscene features of these Adonis, god of Spring and Adonai,ofrejuvenation. He was equated with season. The orgiastic and ecstatic rites were relics of an earlier fertility the Supreme being derive rheir Osiris, God of the mysteries, (Him Dionysian rites, prominent in the cult performed to ensure the earth's names. All the beauty of early spring whom one may not nam,e), and thus vintage festivals became rather fruitfulness. rejoicing is in harmony with Easter. the pharaoh became the dispenser of sobered and turned into occasions for The Lernuria was an ex_{>ulsion Thus the lilies in the wheelbarrow bounty who filled Upper and Lower presenting the finest literary achieve­rintal practiced in order to drive out will always jolt their way to the Egypt with strength and life. ments of poets and dramatists from evil spirits who were believed to be shrines and altars. The Hebrew spring festival was 500 B.C. onwards. excessively rampant in the spring. If you really get enthused with known as the Pesach or Passover According to Vacca, the Dionysian The Lupercalia which originated as spring, you could follow the exa nplewhich began as the full moon neared theater had a seating capacity of a mstic purific.ttion festival for flocks of one Englishwomen centuries ago,the vernal equinox at which time the 17,000. Actors performed comedies and herds, ~ vc·.ved into a fertility rite who was overcorr.e with spring lew. firstlings of the lambing season were and tragedies, representative of the on the Palatine Hill. Young men As she said, "it's the only thir g to offered. There were sacrifices to the age's classic drama, for three of the would run around the base of the hill wash one's face with." So ext erne fertility divinity. five days. striking all whom they encountered i~ was she in her belief that she g1 •t up The Pesach was combined with the The Romans also had their unique order to make themselves fertile. every morning at 4 to perform this assoth or Feast of Unleavened Bread, way of celebrating. Prior to the Even the o\merican Indians had ritual. Follwing suit, many En ~lish calendar reforms of ] ulius Caesar, their special way of celebrating people proceeded to collect dew troman agricultural rite n~corded in March was the first month and was Spring. In ~ gentle _custom, they the grass with silver spoons andExodus and Deutoronomy as the dedicated to Mars, the agricultural remo• ed their moccasms from their bottle it. annual commemoration of release  

-
-

--------------------------------------------------------------~--~-------------­

The Observer Monday, March 24, 1980 -page 8 
Com.rnittee plans Senior Trip to Carribean for October break 
by Bndget Berry StaffReporter 
The Senior Trip will definitely be bdd over October Break 11ext year, Coordinator Mike Geis said yesterday. "We won't be certain until t0morrow , but it looks like we' II be going to the Bahamas," he addded. Geis said that a meeting is scheduled for 3 p.m. today, at which time Father Mario, as­sistant director of student act­Ivities, will report on rhe costs of a trio to Nassau. Then a 
-
final decision should be made. 
Although the Nassau trip was not included as a possibility on the survev d: -~ributed to Jun­wrs after foe Doyle's article in the M::lrr 7 \'outh Bend Tn·­bune, Gets sahi that he expects everyone to b1 satisfied. 
"It meets the two main criter­ia," he explained, "Sun and an island.'' It should be consider­ably cheaper than other alter­natives, Geis said. "There is a lot to do and it will be less of a problem politically," he added. October Break runs from the 19th through the 26th. Geis 
IN CASE YOU'VE MISSED IJS... 
WE'VE MISSl;DYOU! 
Over the past decade, Michael & Co. has been pleased to serve all of our valued Notre Dame and St. Mary's customers. Recently, we moved from our old Edison Rd. at Ind. 23 location which was just 'h mile away. Now we're only 2'h miles away! Still on Edison Rd. Still convenient. Still the one. We welcome you to visit us soon at our all new salon. 
Fo•arunng hair and skincare producrs by· 


OPEN TUE. & THUR. 'TIL9 P.M. 
Nobody looks quite like you ... let us help keep you that way. 
Acareer in law­

without law school. 
After just three months of study at The Institute for Paralegal Training in exciting Philadelphia, you can have a stimulating and rewarding career in law or business­without law school. 
As a lawyer's assistant you will be performing many of the duties traditionally handled only by attorneys. And at The Institute for Paralegal Training, you can pick one of seven different areas of law to study. Upon completion of your training, The Institute's unique Placeme1t Service will find you a responsible and challenging job in a law finn, bank or corporation in the city of your choice. 
The lnst1tute for Paralegal Training is the nation's first and most respected school for paralegal training. Since 1970. we've placed over 3.000 graduates in over 85 cities nationwide. 
If you're a sen1or of high academic standing and looking for an above average career, contact your Placement Office for an interview with our representative. 
We will visit your campus on: 
MONDAY, APRIL14 

-
The 
Institute
for 

Paralegal 
. . ®

T
ramlng 
iA../•·" 
~'JJJ'-"': .;;.;;_1 235 South Hth Street 
:-.._~ Philadelphia, PA 19103 ,L_ :,..,. (215) 732-66oo 
i1 
I I II. Ill •i
• ~ AC-0035 
said that the Seniors will leave 
Sunday to accomodate Satur­
day's game. Expenses will 
include seven days and six 
night iu Nassau, he said. 
''We figure it will cost some­where between $400-$450 in­cluding car rent?! on the is­land " Geis said. HF: added that the San Fran ;isco trip .which would have lasted half as long was priced at about 
$350. 
''When the surveys came 
back," he said, "]amaica was 
the overwhelming preference.'' 
But the trip would have cost 
about $500, he said. Plane fare 
alone is $370. 
Juniors were asked to fill out 
the survey distributed in re­
sponse to the ''Rumor that the 
Irish -Southern California 
~arne would be moved back 
mto the first week of December 
thus ending the ABC college 
series," Geis said. . 
The San Francisco trip was 
originally planned to include 
this game tn the itinerary. 
Although the Senior Trip­Committee was informed of the change almost two weeks ago, they were obliged to attribute everything to heresay until ABC made an offictal an­nouncement today, Geis ex­plained yesterday. 
"We are supposed to submit a bill to ABC for the added costs of printed materials and cancellauons,'' Geis said. 


Two versions 

Senate debates balancing the budget 
_A receptive audience was captivated by this performer's vzbraphone solo at the C}F Saturday night. [photo by P. johnson] 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Re­publicans and Demotrats are squaring off in the Senate to see which stde can come up with a more appealing plan for ba­lancing next year's federal bud­get. 
The Senate has set aside 
tomorrow for debating the 
~eparate approaches, both of 
which would result in a balance 
between spending and income 
in the 12 months that begin 
next Oct. 1. 
The Republ\::an version go a step further and limit spending during that period to a fixed percentage of national income -a move that Democrats insist would force severe cuts in many programs. 
. Whi1e the Senate prepares instructions for its Budget Com­mittee, the House will consider the spending plan already rec­ommended by its budget­writers. That plan would cut $16. 5 billion from the budget submitted by President Carter in]anuary and would result in a $2-billion surplus. 
Rep. Robert Giaimo, D­Conn., chairman of the House Budget Committee, anticipates problems in getting that budget passed. The reason: liberal Democrats insist the budget­cutting fever would gut social programs they've been swear­mg by for years. 
With inflation running at an annual rate of 18 percent, the drive to reduce government spending and balance the bud­get has taken on new life this year. The Carter administration and congressional leaders say a balanced budget will be a major signal to workers and to finan­cial markets that the govern­ment means business in the 

publicans have signed the GOP 
plan, which is sponsored princi­
pally by Sen. Bill Roth, R-Del. 
That resolution simply directs 
the Senate Budget Committee 
to ensure that the next budget 
does not exceed 21 percent of 
the Gross National Product, a 
measure of all goods the nation 
produces. 
That would limit spending to either $596 billion, as Roth says, or $584 billion, according to Democratic opponents. 
Sen. Edmund S. Muskie, chairman of the Budget Com­mittee, insisted such limitations would make it more difficult for Congress to deal with the ups-and-downs of the economy and would force unr(;alistic cuts in spending. 
In an effort to sidetrack the Roth resolution, Muskie won endorsement by the Democratic 
Caucus of a substitute that 
would require a balanced bud­
get and earmark any surplus for 
tax cuts. And to give the Senate 
a clear choice, 1t would show 
where additional cuts could be 
made in order to reach the 
21-percent level preferred by 
Roth. · 

The Senate will continue 
talking this week about Carter's 
propose~ ."windfall-pr?fits" tax 
on the otlmdustry, whtch also is 
a major part of the war on 
inflation. 

Re~ublica':l-led opponents of 
the btl!, whtch would cost oil producers and royalty owners an estimated $227.7 billion in the 1980s, are drawing out the debate in an effort to force the convening of a new Senate­House conference committee that would write a more accept­
able version. 

... Campaign '80 
[continued from page 5] 
his main com(>etitors for the GOP presidenual nomination ­George Bush or John B. Ander­son -would be the team player Rea~an says he would want in a v1ce. presidential running mate. 
Reagan dodged a reply about Bush, without endorsing him in any way. About Anderson, he said: "How could you choose a fellow as vice president who says he doesn't want you as president and couldn't support you? It's~. case of his turning me down. 
Later, at an "agriculture day" of parity -a subsidized farm price level intended to give farmers the same purchasing power they had before World War I. "I am not as familiar with some things like that,'' he replied as a murmur of sur­pnse swept his audience of farmers. 
Bush s-coffed at the Connecti­cut poll results and proclaimed himself "the new me" who talks only about issues and not public opinion surveys. He also challenged the Carter ad­ministration to explain why the deposed Shah of Iran left exile in Panama, and said he hopes the United States is trying to 
operaleO by Para-legal, Inc. 

anti-inflation battle. . event, Reagan was asked see that the shah gets the 
Nine Democrats and 3 7 Re-whether he favored 100 percent medical treatment he needs.
Approved by the Amer'can Bar Association. 

The Observer -Sports Monday, March 24,1980 -page 9 
"He told me he was thinking again to]erry on the bus." 6-foot-3 Griffith. Besides bruise.

about Jerry back home," said In Saturday's game, Griffith hitting 14 or 21 field goal "It wasn't a re-injury,"Louisville assistant Wade exploded for 16 of Louisville's attempts, he also led both explained Olson. ''The doctor

Griffith 
Houston. 

first 18 points and finished with teams with six assists and was concerned that if we didn't At a pep rally Friday in a game high 34 points. pulled down five rebounds. keep it iced, he'd have 
Louisville, Griffith had told "All we could do was go to "Griffith is a great player," swelling. We expect him to about 1,000 fans that he wasdedicates the boards and watch Darrell,'' said Iowa Coach Lute Olson. play Monday." 

dedicating the tournament to a said sophomore forward Derek "The tighter we played him, Lester, Iowa's all-time friend who had cancer. That Smith. the better he shot the ball. He scorer, who missed about half 

friend is Jerry Stringer. 

''Iowa took us out of our played as well against us as any his team's games this seasontourname:nt ''They go back to grade fastbreak offense and played player ever was.'' due to two operations on his
school,'' Houston said. 

tough defense, so we had to Iowa's hopes were hurt when right knee, never ren~rned. Stringer was the basketball play their game,'' said forward guard Ronnie Lester, who ''It hurt us in terms of
to friend 
team manager at Louisville's Wiley Brown. "We had to go to scored the first 10 Hawkeye leadership,'' said Olson about Male High School, a team Darrell, and he came through points left the game with his the loss. "We were s~ddenlyHouston coached and Griffith for us." club trailing 22-17 after forced to go with six players, 
Brown 's 't<)ughest' decision brings success to UCLA 
INDIANAPOLIS (AP) -The happier.Bruins are back. UCLA once 'Tve never had a relationshipagain is competing fcn the with players like I have with NCAA basketball title. Tradi­these kids at UCLA,'' said the tion is being served, largely 39-year-old native of Brooklyn, 
because first-year Coach Larry N.Y. "The nature of the Brown had the guts in mid­college game leads to unselfish­season to fly in the £ace of ness, which is not the case in tradition. the pros. There you read about 
''It was the toughest decision super players instead of super I've ever had to make," teams. reflected Brown on the eve of "I wanted to be a teacher and the Bruins' matchup a~ainst have a real relationship with my Louisville Monday night J,or the players, and I wasn't getting NCAA championship. "But I that satisfaction in the pros." had messed the team up pretty Brown almost took the good in the beginning of the Memphis State coaching job, year, and I had an obligation to but turned it down. The UCLA UCLA to get this program post, however, was one he where it belon~s." could not refuse. 
With the Brums struggling at 8-6, Bn'lwn told his players he was making some lineup changes. Seniors Darrell 
.. . Era 

Allums and Gig Sims, as well as sophomores Tyren Naulls and Tony Anderson were benched. [continued from page 12] This went against the accepted opposite Griffith. way of doin~ things at UCLA, The freshmen starters on the where senwrs are usually UCLA team include Rod Foster catered to and pampered. and Michael Holton in the 
"I was doing things because I back-court. One of the starting didn't want to hun peoples' front court players is a sopho­feelings," said Brown. "It more, center Mike Sanders, wasn't working, and I know while forwards Kiki Vand­why. I wasn't being mysdf. I eweghe_ and]ames Wilkes both wasn't coaching the way I know are semors. I can coach. I wasn't being fair ''I'm sure they'll press us as to myself, to my players or to soon as we leave the dressing 
the program." room," said Brown. "Ifwe get 
So Brown inserted talented into a schoolyard game with sophomore Mike Sanders into them, we'll be in deep trouble. the starting lineup, and also "We'll have to play team gave increased responsibil.ity to defense and try to stay away his "four young whackos" -from one-and-one situations.'' freshmen Rod Foster, Michael The Bruins have assumed Holton, Darren Daye and Cliff the unofficial title of this year's Pruitt. "Cinderella Team"-a tribute 
"I've never seen a group as to their late-season resurgence talented as these kids," said after a poor 8-6 start. They Brown. "They have no fear. finished fourth in the Pacific ­They honestly believe they are 10 Conference and were among 
better than anybody -and the last teams invited" into the sometimes they are.'' expanded 48 team field. Since Brown shuffled his lineup ''I set so many negative and simplified his offensive and records at UCLA this year that 
I don't even want tQ think

defensive patterns, the B:ruins have won 14 of 17 games. They about it," said Brown. "I can 

• School of Arts and Sc1ence ND I
made it into the expanded only thank the NCAA for 
• School of Business Administration
48-team NCAA tourney, where enlarging the field this year so I
• Division of General Studies
they knocked off top-rated a fourth/lace (conference) I
• Graduate School of Business Administration
DePaul, among others, on their team coul be invited.'' 
I 

way to the final. The Bruins, though, have • Graduate Programs for Education 
It was the chance to work been playing as well as any • Graduate Division of Pastoral Counseling I with youngsters like the ' 'four team these days and coine B whackos" at a place like UCLA flying into the championship I Dept. C • 715 North Avenue • New Rochelle. NY 10801 1 
that made the JOb so attra•ctive game with a string of five 
I (914) 636-2100 1
for Brown. After 61/z years of NCAA playoff victories. With coaching in the pro ranks, he Saturday's victory, they, im­I I was a nervous wreck when he proved their ~;ecord to 22-9. 
1 Name_ Please send 1 
left the Denver Nuggets under The championship game, fol­fire on Feb. 1, 1979. lowing the third-place consola­I more information I Leaving the Nuggets to coach tion game between Iowa and I Address about I at UCLA might be like going Purdue, will be witnessed live 
I City Statl' Zip Summer Sessions I
from the frying pan to the fire, by more than 17,000 fans while and while he got burned early, millions more will watch on I . at IONA. I Brown says he's never been national television. 1ll'kphone__ I 
-------------------~~-----------~ 
.,., 

L----------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
There was no s.v..,vu."" receiving what Olson said was a instead of seven." 
If you'r,e planning summer study and liv.:~ in the New York, New Jersey, Connec·ticut area, there's one school you should consider. 
IONA. An independent four-year college in Westchester County offering: 
• 
Graduate and undergraduate courses 

• 
Courses you want-in a concentrated time span 

• 
Convenience-dose to home and the City 

• 
An informal, productive atmosphere in air conditioned classrooms 


Summer Session undergraduate courses are offered Monday thru Thursday in the Arts, Business and the Sciences· in day, and evening sessions. 
First Day Session-June 9th-July 11th Second Day Session-July 14th-August 15th First Evening Session-June 9th-July 11th Second Evening Session-July 14th-August 15th 
Summer Graduate courses are also offered toward an M.B.A. and an 
M.S. in Education. 
Check out lema College_ The Summer Session ~ffords you the opportunity to make-up and get a jump on your fall programs. Check in by completing the coupon, or call (914) 636-2100. 
INDIANAPOLIS (AP) ­Louisville's Darrell Griffith was a man possessed in Saturday's 80-72 NCAA basketball tourna­ment semifinal round victory over Iowa. 
Aboard the team bus on the way to Market Square Arena, the All-America guard said he was feeling sad. 
guided to the 1975 Kentucky high school basketball title. 
Houston explained that Stringer's dtsease was diagnosed about six months ago as bone cancer, and the resulting medical battle has proved upsetting to Griffith. 
"Darrell saw ] erry right before we left Louisville,'' Houston said. ''It made him sad. So he dedicated the game 

The Observer-SportsBoard Monday, March 24, 1980 -page 10 
... Rivals 
[continuedfrom PaRe 12] 
ward to the tiebreaker having 
lost the first set of the match 
after taking a 4-2 advanta~e 
only to lose it, 4-5. But in thts 
,kciding best-of-nine points 
rhird set, MeMahon rallied 
fwrn a 1-3 deficit to take the 
match, ~-3. 
In another singles match de­' rd('d in a similar fashion, number three Hopwood defeat­('d (;rant Rolley, 6-2, 6-7 (4-~) and 5-2 in the make-shift third 
Molarity 
set. 

The win was coach Tom Fallon's 349th in his 24-year career, surpassing fencing mentor Mike DeCicco for se­cond place on Notre Dame's :til-time coaching victory list. Only retired baseball c0ach Jake Kline has more wins with 
552. Fallon also posted 62 wins as wrestling coach before 1969, bringing hi!:> grand total to 412. 
Saturday's gr<~dge match with Indiana State was sweet re­venge for the h ish who lost to the Sycamores a year ago, 6-3. The match was all but decided following the six singles competitions with Notre Dame winning four of them. 
McMahon did away with Tin Capulong, 6-2, 7-5 and junior Mark Hoyer battled to a hard­fought victory over Chuck Nor­man in the number four singles match 7-5, 7-6 (5-4). Sopho­mores Tom Hartzell and Tom Robinson wasted little time in beating Galen Scott and Steve Huda<k at the number five anp six singles respectively, 6-1, 6-0 and 6-3, 6-1. Robison improved his singles record to 5-I, best on the team. 

The two Irish losse:> came at the number two and three singles. But after the disap­point:ng lo!:>ses, Harris and Hopwood joined forces to take the number one doub·es comp­
etition,  6-2,  2-6,  6-4.  You  
could  tell  things  were  going  
weJl  for  Notre Dame  when  

Carlton Harris lost control of his racquet after a serve. As the defenseless Harris watched his racquet slide all Jt!e way to tht' net, Hopwood put away the Indiana State return for the pomt. 

"We're about where we ex­pected to be at this point,'' said Fallon. "Things are looking very good for ~he rest of the season, and that goal of 20 wins still isn't out of the question. We can only afford one more loss, but with the great attitude on this team, we may not lose any. The leader­ship this year has been great with Carlton (Harris, senior 
. captain), and these guys have a real winning attitude. They take defeat hard. It seems like very day it's somebody differ­ent whose having a hot day, picking up for somebody who 
by Michael Molinelli 

The Daily Crossword 
All Rights Reserved 
BREAK TIME DIRECT O'HARE. $15 EXPRESS $15 
from NOTRE DAME CIRCLE depart' 4pm arrive 5:30 pm
Marrh27 lOam 11:30 am
March28 
lpm 2:30pm 


INuiANA MOTOr:t aus 

ACROSS 38 American 1 Parent humorist 5 Mend a lire 39 Contends 
10 Summit 40 Fish-eating 14 Burden bird 15 Allan--41 Happy 16 Spindle expression 17 Ready to go 42 House 19 Location addition 20 Gambling 43 On the 
cube brink of 21 Laundry 47 Rarely machine 49 Some hab­22 Halt itats 23 Servile 50 Confederate sycophant army 25 Anger out 52 John or 
of control Thelma 27 Summers: Fr. 56 Bill of 29 Large beam fare 33 Quickly 59 Alludes 
Friday's Results 


62 Charles 26 Soldiers 
of song 28 Females 63 Barren 30 Blowgun 64 Ready for item 
take-off 31 Prepare for 66 Squeal: sl. publication 67 Tiny flash 32 Gambling 68 Electrical city 
measure 33 Burl of 69 Leg joint song 70 Colorado 34 African 
park rive·r 71 Tarzan's 35 Confess pals 36 Skill 
37 Mound: dial. DOWN 41 Rush of air 1 Gloomy 43 Namath 2 "-Get 44 Feeling of Your Gun" resentment 3 Speechless 45 Caps of the 
ones Middle 4 Ember Ages 5 Gulches 46 Poet 6 Genesis 48 Labor 
locale 51 Convinces 7 F.levator 53 Group of 
cages soldiers 8 Horatio-54 American 9 Noblemen bird 
10 Counter­55 Indian feiter's peasants aid 56 Conceal 
11 Way out 57 Emerald 12 Singing Isle 
voice 58 Baseball 13 Retain team 18 Muse of 60 Flut!P-r 
poetry 61 Slave 24 Cat cries 65 PowP.r org. 
Sports •llaCourt • ~~..~~!~r.!!~~ · . Clubs rz 
UNIVERSAL GYM EQUIPMENT, TOURNAMENTS , SAUNAS, WHIRLPOOL, PRO SHOP, LEAGUE, LESSONS, FITNESS PROGRAMS 
Student 1 Year Membership 
RAQUETBALL-$15.00 with coupon R/BALL & FITNESS -$40.00 with coupon 
~-!~~_:;~AM----coup~n------------~ 
I 205 w. Edison Rd. ND-SMC STUDENT COUPON 
I 

II Mishawaka, Ind. 46544 50% off 1 yr. membership I 
259-8585 1 I WH-FM offer expires 3/27/80
I I 
~----------------------------~ 
might be a little down." 

Fallou is especially pleased with the progress of freshman McMahon. The San Diego, Calif., native owns a 4-4 record thus far with three of the four losses coming a~ainst NCAA tournament paruci.Pants. "I think Mark is gaming more confidence with every match," said Fallon. "I think his deterrpined performance against Capulong and ex­pecially Van Lieshoot this weekend showed thM. '' 
Fallon will take the team to sunny Mexico City and Acapul­co, Mexico, on Thursday after­noon for a ten-day, ten-match workout/vacation. The team will be the guest of a group of former Irish players under Fallon. "The major objective of a trip of this nature is conditioning," says Fallon. "Playing a match a day on mostly clay courts in Mexico's high altitude would get any­body into top shape. ·' 
The Irish will need to be in top form upon their return as they will play 15 matches in a 23-day span starting with Bel­larmine on Friday. April 11 is the first match of the Notre Dame Quadrangular Tourna­ment. ''I'm looking for the team to be playing it's best tennis right after we get back. With Hawaii, Ohio State, Ind­iana, Kalamazoo and Western Michigan coming up in a hurry, they're going to need to be." 
Basketball 
NCAA SEMIFINALS 
Saturday's Games At Indianapolis, Ind. 
Louisville 80, Iowa 72 
UCLA 67, Purdue 62 
NCAA FINALS At Indianapolis, Ind. Consolation 
Iowa (23-9) vs. Purdue (22-10) 
Championship 
Louisville (32-3) vs. UCLA (22-9) 
Tennis 
Friday 
Notre Dame 9, Wisconsin-Oshkosh 0 

Singles No. 1 -Mark McMahon ('N D) del Jim Van Ueshoot 6-7, (4-5), 7-5, (5-3*). No. 2 -Carlton Harris (N D) deL Dave Luedtke 6-2, 6-3. No.3-Herb Hopwood (ND) del. Grant Rolley 6-2. 6-7 (4-5), (5-2*). No. 4 -Mark Hoyer (N.D) del. Mike Barth 6-2. 6-2. No. 5 -Tom Hartzell (N D) de f. Paul Martinson 6-2, 6-1. No. 6 -Tom Robison (ND) del. Kevin Reichenberger 6-3, 6-2. 
doubles No. 1 Harris/Hopwood (N D) deL Van Lieshoot/Luedtke 4-6, 6-2. 7-5. No. 2 -Hoyer/McMahon (NO) del . Rolley/Chris Wiels 6-1, 6-1. No. 3 -Jim Falvey/Tim Noonan (N D) del. Martinson/Terry Martin 6-2, 6-1. 
• Due to a limit on available court time at the Lafayette South Racquet Club, a nine-point tiebreaker was played in place of a standard third set. 
Saturday Notre Dame 7, Indiana State 2 
Single 

No. 1 -Mark McMahon (ND) del. Tin Capulong 6-2, 7-5. No.2. -Tom Csipkay (ISU) deL Carlton Harris 4-6. 6-2, 6-3. No. 3 -Buzz Hardy (ISU) del. Herb Hopwood .6-1, 6-3. No. 4 -Mark Hoyer (ND) del. Chuck Norman 7-5, 7-6 (5-4). No. 5 -Tom Hartzell (NO) def. Galen Scott 6-1 , 6-0. No. 6 -Tom Robison (ND) del. Steve Hudack 6-3, 6-1. 
Doubles No. 1 -Harris/Hopwood (ND) def. Capulong/Csipkay 6-2, 2-6, 6-4. No. 2 -McMahen/Hoyer (ND) def. Hardy/Hudack 6-3, 6-1. No. 3 -Jim Falvey/Tim Noonan (NO) del. Norman/Scott 6-1, 6-4. 
·. ' ( ' .~ r • 

The Observer -Sports Monday, March 24,1980 -page 11 
Sports Briefs _ ___, • • • East Coast 
[continued from page 12)
Men grab bookstore slots ... 
teammates, both California na­tives, Dennis Regan and Kevin The 320 available spaces in this Jear's Bookstore 
Hawkins as the only O'Han­Basketb:~;ll tournament were quickly fille yesterday after­
lon' s plarers with high school no~n. Sign-ups we·re held in the LaFortune Ballroom and volleybal experience.
assistant tourname·nt commissioner Mary Beth Sterling 
Goralski or~:anized the East announced that the roster was completed in "a little over an 
Coast team, winners of the hour.'' 
II_Iin<?is Be~edictine College In­:'When we fille;d the 3~0 spaces, we started a waiting list,'' 
VItational m January, just a pomte_d <?Ut Sterlmg, actmg in place of retiring tournament year ago with players from the commissiOner Leo Latz who was out of town. "It is South Bend YMCA. The club 
unfortunate that we cannot accommodate everyone who wants 
consists not only of Goralski, to play'· but it looks like it will be impossible to expand the 
who has been active in volley­field th1s year.'' 
ball for 20 years, but AI Last year's tournament roster was enlarged from 256 to the Blazevich and Doug Kendall, present field of 320 teams. Latz has announced that a new 
two former players for Ball com~!ssi<_>ner will be named sometime this week and 
State, a college with a national­paruc1paung teams will be able to pick up their tournament ly known volleyball tradition. 
schedules rig~t after spring break. The finals of the Also on the East Coast squad tournament will be played on Sunday, April 27. 
are five players fresh from high school graduation last spring. Windy City, an all-star team from Chicago, dominated the 
women's 16-team division dur­ing the tournament, losing just one game on the day. Ironically 
Ellen Dorney, commissioner of the Women's Bookstore 
... womens:' spots remain available 
the Windy City team players Basketball Tournament, has announced that there are still 
can barely be billed as women· spots available in this year's tourney after yesterday's 
the club consists of girls 15 and s1gn-ups. Teams of five who still want to enter should call 
under preparinJ~ for the Nation­Dorney at 6987 to enter. 
al Junior Olympics, an event in which Windy City is one of the favored teams. 
Gorlski will next prepare the O'Hanlon's team, just an in­terest group under Notre Dame athletic terminology, for the Midwest Intercollegiate Volley­ball Association (MIVA) cham­pionship to be held April 12 at the University of Michigan. 
"We'll have one week after break, we hope, tcf practice," said Goralski of the Notre Da111e team. "If the space 1s made available in the ACC then we'll get in some practice time and I'll bring in the East Coast for scrimmage. Since January we've been unable to hold more than four prectice sesstons at the ACC." 
Lacrosse team opens season, defeats BallState, 17-4 
The Notre Dame Lacrosse team began its season yester­day with a 17-4 whalloping of Ball State University. The Irish were led by Mike Norton who scored a hat trick. 
Nick Gehring added two goals and three assists, while Mike Lynch, Carl Lundblad, and J az Ortiz each added a pair of goals in the c-. erall team effort by Notre.: Dame. 
AI Pinado had a superb game in goal, stopping 16 stops. He had some help from his . stal­wans on defense: Tim Michaels Maurice Beshlian and Mark Tallmage. 
The Irish stickmen, defending their Midwest University Club division championship, travel to Texas over spring break to take on five opponents. They will face teams from the Houston Lacrosse Club, University of Houston, Texas A&M, Dallas Lacrosse Club and Texas Tech. 
The frish home opener will be on Ar-ril 9 against Lake Forest College. 
All classified ads must be received by 5:00p.m.. two days poor to the !ssue m wh1ch the ad IS run. The Observer office will accept class11ieds Monday through Fnday, 10:00 a.m. to ~:00 p.m. All 
classifieds must be pre-paid. either ·in person or through the mail.
Cla~sifieds 
Need ride to Iowa Falls [N of Cedar Rider needed to New Jersey~eaving Rick, Howdy to a "Special Lady." This is Rapids) or anywhere near there. Will Thursday. Call Storlk 277-5963 after 6.
Notices Maybe we could talk abo.ut Lynn R. my 10 words. 
help With $$$. Call Jim 1195. 

over a coke at the huddle.
Hi Stork! 
Pearl Harbor Enaj,
Professional Typing. Reasonable Need rider to New Orleans tor break. Si)ll eno si rot ouy!rates. Experience typing thesis,· Call 288-1376. Desperately need ficle to South Central 
Brian, Love,journal articles. 291-0495. Pa. passing thru?? Jim 1688. 
I used to think that people from Alter EbolraeNeed ride to Detroit tor spring break. 
were unattractive and unsophisticatedMorrissey Lo~n Fund Please call Sharla 6409 and/or Bill Desperately need ride to and from (o~ darling, I can't tell you why) I have Patsy,Last day for undergrads to apply is 1944. Buffalo, NY for spring break. Call quickly changed my opinion Could it Words cannot express...
March 26. Rich Laski 6721. 
be L---? I would like to ask one TomNeed ride to NYC, Conn , for breaK. 
question. Which one of us is really theTyping done In my home. University Leave Wed. pm Pay $40. Jay 8894. 
dangerous type? Thanks Chris, John et al for thePark Mall area. Call between 8 am·? 
A Princess wonderful 22nd birthday.
Personals
pm at 277-3085. Need ride to Tam~a. Fla. tor Spring Love,
Break. Will share driving and Timmy Mark Anthony, Vote Countess Courtois for President! Carol

Professional typist. IBM Selectric 11. expenses. Please call Christian at 
Bite the Big Apple. A. Dulac will be abolished.
Business and academic experience. 272-7987. . 
Lil Sis b. Econ tests will be outlawed. Thanks to Scoop, Tom J., Korbz, Mark272·3134. 
c. Class Lysergic Acid trips--required P, K. Connelly and everyone elsa whoNeed ride to Pittsburgh for break. Can Claudette, reading is the Electric Koolaid Acid halpad us establish "Musicviaws". 
Typing Plus. Term papers. theses, leave any time. Will share expenses. 
Test. It's been bizarre! Good luck in life.
I hope you have a nice swim up the
dissertations. Light editing, ghost Chris 3127. 
creek. d. Encounter Groups at Stephan, bring Mick 
writing. Literary search. bitlliogra­Line and Kelly your ID, a plastic tarp, a friend(s) and P.S. Go for it Scoop, scrap the top 40WANTED: Need a ride to St.
phies, genealogies. Job resume mazola. and review the rest. Nothing is too 
service. Sliding rate scale based Petersburg, Fla. Will share expenses.
on That doesn't make any sense to e. Golf clubs available in every dorm. strange [remember Davo; and don't let 
lead time. Special discounts on full Please call 5480 (SMC). them cut you back. G0 F 0 R IT!
me??!! f. Fire escapes will be ch1nged to 
contracts for theses and dissertations. 
elevators.

Aardvark Automatic Solutions, P.O. Need one-way ride to Nashville for Mollie,
Galvoid, g. Padded stairs in every building tor
Box 1204, 46624, ohone: (219)-break. Call 3726. those who like to fall down thorn. Have a very happy 22nd birthday--and
You always seem to catch me at my
289·6753. get psyched for some skiing II
worst. Sorry I was so short Sat. ~· Golf cart den.lOiition derby.
Need riders to Green Bay area for P.S. No pun intendecl. r. Wh1te Russ1ans (with 100 proof L9V6,MORRISSEY LOAN FUND break. 287-0422 Chrissy. 

vodka) will be available in milk Your Little Sis 
ALL LOANS PREVIOUSLY DUE ON 
Jaybird, machines.APRIL 7 WILL BE DUE ON APRIL 8. Going My Way?? Need ride to Tuesdays are ::limes to Doughnuts j. Silicide mushrooms and peyote Vegetable Bob is gonna have to wear
Philadelphia for break. Mary 41-4105. 

buttons at the salad bar. jackets all the time over break'
Days.

Have typewriter--will type term pa­
k. $1000 of your tuition will be taken pers, manuscripts, etc. 287-0892. wA'NTE'i2~r3~;;~1oF;rid;to U-G-L-Y, Ha ain't g11t no alibi! Mr. away from salaries and allotted for the To the Gus impersonator at 1744--why
help with expenses and driving. 

Bill for UMOC! purchase of 10 gams of coke per did you do that???? 
Free Free Free Leaving last weekend in March (28-30) 
student.

Style cut with purchase of Day into returning 2 weeks later, dates and To the E-Section.
Volunteers needed: I. Cokenight at dini<lg hall--bring your
Night, Red ken's new moisture cJntrol­time flexible. Please call 282-1141. Thanks for your help watching my
1. 5 students, help transport mentally own m1rror Jnd razor blade.
ling acid wave. Try it. You're worth retarded to train for spacial olymplcs, m. Burn Howard's 3rd floor RA at the little rug-rats, I promise I'Ll never do 
it. Just $43.00. Jan's Beauty Need a ride to and from Philly. Can 
Monday and WadniiSday evenings, stake and serve him for a special that to you again.
Boutique. 143 Dixieway, Roseland. leave Thurs. and will help pay expens­starting April 14. dinner--he's a real beefy guy.
es. Call Jim 1867. 

Shawn F.,
2. Help repaint small Gtffica.ln evening, n. A personal appearance and auto­
Typing done in my home. Call Are you psyched???
weak of March 24-27. graph session with Pfister Joe.
between 8:00 am and 7:00 pm, Renting car to PHILADELPHIA Need 
Contact Volunteer Services 7308. o. Psychological services available torRIDERS. $60 round trip. Call Greg
University Park Mall area 277-3085. Marshall Matt.
all students who do not participate in
1757. . • 

----------------
------------
Ron Lorenzini, alcohol consumption. What were you doing last night?? 11 Thanks much for thll excellent nite p. Ov! OV! Kinky stuff?? Happy Belated Birthday
Got a blank space on your wall? Fill it you hunk you.

must do it again.
with color basketball Actio1 Photos. All players, all sizes. Cheap. Not 

Lost & Fottnd Love, ARWM, xxxxxooooo 
Yours truly Hey Bo~art, are you free April 12?
LOST: Class ring, Engraved MJK '81. available from Ronco or K-Tel. Call Secret admirer (l?t) ..
Bergman wants to dance the nightIf found please call Mike 8436. 8932. • Laurie Reynolds: away in Casablanca and would like you Are you referring to prose or poetry?
----------------
Have a groovy Spring Break. to show her a swingin' time. And I refuse to submit my wor~ 
to an

LOST: H-P 25 Calculator during week 1972 VW Sedan--orange rebuilt en­
Big Sis Here's lookin' at you kid! editor I know naught about.
of March 10-14 if you've got it, please gine, radial tires, rear window de f., 
D. Murohyreturn to the Dean's 0!1ice in the AM stereo radio, 24.500 miles on Barbarella is coming! Tuesday and Hey monopoly players--show your skillEngineering Bldg. Thanks. Reward engine. $1250. Call Greg, work Cat, Anne, and Mary,Wednesday at the Engineering Audi­at the MONOPOLY MARATHON for

o!1ered. 277-0703 or home 683·7303. 
torium. Southeast A~ian Refugees in St. Joe The daiquiries were fantastic, and
-----------·-----Count~. Wi: oe held Aprii1H2. Pick you all looked like "brides··. You
LOST: 1-pair Nike high-toppecl bas­'75 VW Beetle like new. Regular gas, 
Andy "Wolfie" Rauh, up registraNon forms and pledge are definitely "V-frames''tl Thanksketball shoes, white with black behind fuel injection, after 7. Call 277-0339 Your threats of phys,ical abuse and sheets at the Student Activities Office for the great time'
ACC. March 19th. Call Rob at 1865. $2900. 
non-communication wetre so awesome in LaFortune. 
Jack, Brendan. & BillI decided not to breathe a word of anything to anyone. 

For sale, 1975 LeMans Pontiac (sports­

"Tippecanoe Place" r.r,-,:;;~·1 soon .....
coup). Good condition. Excellent L.R.R.H. watch for future ads. Dave Piech:

tForRent 
stereo. $950. 8823 Greg. 

A personal just tor you!! For Rent: 4-man house, contact ureg Happy sunshine and Florida!
Plane ticket for sale: One-way from VOTE To Coach Terry Mann:&~ •.... 1d the rest
8823 or Joe 8822. Me'
Rochester, NY to South Bend. Leaving Ken Stack of the undefeated Pangborn lnterhall April 7. Very cheap. Call Tim 1387. UMOC Champs, TomS.:
Completely furnished apt. to subillt for Thanks for a great season. So sorry for the deviation from mysummer. On bus line to NO cam Jus. 
Need ride to St. Louis area for break. WANTED: IRISH BAND FDR AN Dick G. promise, but at least I was honest
Call 288-1291 after 10:00 pm. 
Will share$$ and driving. Call Brian TOSTAL FRIVOLITIES. IMMEDI· enough to call you, right? We at 3601. ATELY CALL: KEVIN 287-4635 or Suzanne, can't all be perfect!MURPH 7821. Is it true what say about people with
Wanted Taking riders te Lauderdale, Orlando, green eyes? ----------------
Daytona. Leaving Thurs. afternoon. Color basketball pictures still avail­Cat-Man-Doo 
Camp Tamarack -the place to be!!
Two riders wanted to ~hare expenses [3-27] ona-way or round trip. Mark able. Slam dunks make great decora­P.S. Say hi, to Kim R. to Florida. Round-trip only. 233·5686. 3462 or Steve 3489. tions. Cali 8932. 
Monday,March 24, 1980-page 12
S~orts 
Scholarship reduction EastOJast, Windy City
clouds WCHA's future 
by Bnim Beglane 
Smith. ''Three other schools · 
win tourney

·Sports Wnter 
Michigan, Michigan State and Notre Dame's proposal to Michigan Tech · and we are by Beth Huffman reduce grants-in-aid and travd going to inform the WCHA that Women's Sports Editor 
1osts for the University's we want some sort of realign­hockey program could have a ment for the league. East Coast, a men's volleyball ..,rgnificant impact on the 'We (the four teams) all team from South Bend, thwart­\'\'estern Collegiate Hockey agree something has to be ed Notre Dame's O'Hanlon's \s..,ociatillll, to the extent of done. Travel costs are just too hopes to win its own tourna­
possibly determining the future high and realigning the league ment by topping the Irish 15-10, 
•I 1he league. is a realistic solution to the 15-6 in the finals of the 26-team 
l11 an announcement made problem. In essence, Notre SMC-ND Invitational held over "·II qrda~ morning, the U niver­Dame is going to be the leader the weekend. In the women's '11} <,latnl ·'efforts wt!l be in this move to get the league division it was the Windy City 111ad(' to rut back on the realigned." club that outlasted Ball State, ,uh..,tanrial subsidy to ice Several possibilities exist for 15-10, 15-7. h"1 kc·~· bv a gradual reduction realignment. The WCHA was The East Coast club, in its first .n dw number of grants-in-aid close to one of them two years year of existence, gained a .tnd h~ an attempt to reduce ago when it had voted to split berth in the finals by sweeping tl;t\'('l co-;ts." The hockey team into two divisions, but at the pool play 8-0 and topping Art's h 1he nrdy sport which will league meetings last spring, Bar of Lansing Mich1gan, in a 1I'Ct'lve a cutback in scholar­the . member schools voted best of three match during the ..,!Jip·. a.., a result of Notre overwhelmingly to stay as a semi-finals. Similarly, Notre l)anll'·.., plan to upgrade 10-team loop, killing the pro­Dame won its pool and defeated wonwn' s intercollegiate posed divisional idea. a team, the Bel Air Ducks of .uhkttCS. The notion of the WCHA and Indianapolis, in a best of three 
University president Fr. the Central Collesiate Hockey contest. Theodore Hesburgh, C. S.C., Association mergtng into one Mel Goralski, not only the Lonlirmed earlier reports lhat leasue was proposed last coach for Notre Dame, but also the hockey ream will lose two of spnng by CCHA commissioner a player-coach for the winning irs scholarships after this year, Frank Jacoby. "We favored East Coast, complemented bringing the total number down the idea," said Jacoby, "but Barry Smith, a 6-4 freshman to IH. Future cutbacks, how­they (the WCHA) rebuffed from Lancaster, N.Y., on his ever. were implied in the us.'' The CCHA currently has outstandmg tournament play statement. six teams and will probably for the Irish. Smith joins rwo 
''The ream will continue as a expand to seven next year. [continued on page 11] memhct of the Western Col­The proposal to form a new legiate Hockey Association next league with seven schools from season while exploring future the state of Michigan and options, including membership Notre Dame also has been in a geographically more aired over the last year If that compact league," the state­would happen, the WCHA 
Title game reflects Wooden era 
ment said. would lose Notre Dame, Michi­
The 10-team member WCHA ~an, Michigan State and Mich­goes as far west as Denver and Igan Tech. The CCHA would INDIANAPOLIS (AP) . For also have relatively short line­larly Darrell Griffith's offense. Colorado Springs and as far lose Western Michigan, Nor­the teams involved, the NCAA ups and are similarly studded The Louisville ''skr.valker,'' east as Ann Arbor, Mich. That thern Michigan, Lake Superior basketball championship game with young players. Louisville with the 48-inch verucle jump, spans aproximately 1,000 State College and Ferris State. tonight will be just like looking has three sophomores and a scored 34 points in the Cardi­miles. The desire of Notre These options remain to be in the mirror. freshman among its top five nals' 80-72 victory over Iowa in Dame and other schools to cut discussed, but as for next year "It's going to be a classic players and UCLA starts an Saturday's semifinals. back on the travel involved with in the WCHA, Smith feds his match up of rwo quick teams,'' all-freshman backcourt. UCLA Coach Larry Brown league play is a crucial issue in team can compete. underscored Louisville Coach The comparisons continue hopes to keep the 6-foot-4 the WCHA's future. The "We won't have much Denny Crum Sunday in the down to the type of offense guard considerably below that league's future could very well depth, but we will have a solid ceremonial pre-game press the teams run-the hiph-post. figure Monday night. be determined by how it base for a team,'' he ex­conference prior to the game Both coaches got the idea from "We haven't decided yet decides to handle this issue of plained. "We have got a lot of against UCLA. former UCLA Coach John who's going to guard Griffith,'' travel. people coming back and if we There's more to it than that, Wo9den. said Brown. ''I don't think you 
''There will be a meeting succeed in getting the recruits though. There's a reason for that in can stop him altogether. But if with the league later this we want for next year, we Along with the similar attrib­Crum 's case, of course. He we can make his shots tougher week,'' said Insh coach Lefty should be okay.'' utes of quickness, the finalists played at UCLA and coached and keep him off the foul line, there under the ultra-succesful we'll be doing the job on him.'' Wooden, who won 10 NCAA Griffith can do more than ~hampionships with the Bru­just score, though. Brown is tns. aware of the All-American's
Irish nette.rs rage past weekendrivals 
"I had the opportunity to all-around game. learn from the best coach I've ''He reminds me a lot of ever seen'' Crum said about David Thompson," said 
by Michael Ortman Wisoconsin' s Junior Davis Cup ard third set because of limited Wooden. Brown, who once coached the .\ports Wnter team, struggled with Notre available court time at the Crum also had the opportun­pro superstar with the Denver Dame'5 number one singles Lafayette South Racquet Club. ity to learn from his own Nuggets. ''Griffith is veryWhen you're hot, you're hot. man Mark McMahon for rwo The cold weather forced the experience in these NCAA unselfish. He will give the ball Right now the Notre Dame sets winning the first in a match indoors, and the ACC's playoffs. He coached in the up to a teammate if he is 
te11nis tt·am is on fire. 
decisive nine-point tiebreaker, courts were occupied by the 1972 and 1975 championship double-teamed. He's not a­A weekend sweep of Vl!,itillg 7-6 (5-4). After McMahon won auto show. round, ironically losing both fraid to take the big shot. He Wi~consin-Oshkm h and Ind · the second set, 7-5, the two McMahon did not look for-times to UCLA in the semifin­helps out on the boards, and he ana State improved tht' .-;< ason played another nine-point tie­als. makes the big play to get his
[continued on page 10]

mark to (•-2, extends the cur­He holds no animosity a­
breaker in place of the stand-team going.'' 
rent win.1ing streak J five 
gainst UCLA as a result of Griffith will be the third straight and has some pt·oplt" those losses, however. All-American player that the wondering if the Irish can do "I wouldn't be here today Bruins hope to contain in this 
anythm~ wrong. without them," said Crum. "I tournament. Earlier, they 
Friday s 9·0 thrashing of Osh­learned everything I know from were successful against DePaul ko~h wasn't the sleeper that UCLA." and Mark Aguirre in a second­the score might indicate. One of the crucial thin~s that round UJ?Set. The West Re­Airhough the team outcome Crum learned was the impor­gional wmners then beat Pur­was hardly in doubt for very tance of the pressing defense -due and 7-1 Joe Barry Carroll long, a few of the matches a tactic that has carried the by a 67-62 score in Saturday's went down to the wire in tough Cardinals through the semifinals. decisive third sets. Midwest Regionals and past The sensational senior won't 
Notre Dame's second and Iowa into the national final be UCLA's only problem, of third doubles reams had little with a stately 32-3 record. course. The Cardmals have a trouble, coasting to straight set ''A lot of people look at us as well-balanced lineup that in­victories in about 45 minutes. a run-and-gun team,'' said cludes freshman Rodney Mc­Bur the number one tandem of Crum, "But our strong point Cray at center, sophomores Carlton Harris and Herb Hop­is our defense. You don't get Wiley Brown and Derek Smith wood had to rally back after a this far without it." at the forward positions, and first set loss to beat Jim Van Most everyone in Market Jerry Eaves, another sopho­
Lieshoor and Dave Luedtke, Freshman Tim Noonan [left] and sophomore jim Flavey Square Arena, though,-no more, at the backcourt spot 4-6, 6-2, 7-5. [nght]joined forces to post victon'es at number three doubles doubt will be more cogmzant of Van Lieshoot, a member of over Wisconsin-Oshkosh and Indiana State this weekend. Louisville's offense-particu-[continued on page 9] 

Notre Dame 
Observer 
07251314 

lllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll 
016400 

Box: 14 Volume: 14 
Issue~: 113 
Day: Tue Date : 3/25/1980 12:00:00 AM Notes: Issue # Missing (may not exist) : Issue # Missing (probably not published) : 
' ~
. 
..':._
...., ~ 
-~ 

... Interhallchamps -Page 8 


VOL. XIV, N0.113 an mdependenr s!Udem newspaper servmg notre dame and saint mary's TUESDAY, MARCH 25, 1980 
Shah settles in Egypt; 
CLCdowns Iranian threats persist restructure 
CAIRO, Egyft (AP) -The de­ding the Tehran Embassy said posed Shah o Iran settled into a again their 50 American hosta­hospital overlooking the Nile ges, captive for 142 days, would motions River yesterday, finding a per­not be freed until the shah and 
By Tim V ercellotti 
manent refuge in Egypt after a his fortune rerurned to Iran. 
StaffReporter

year's wandering around the In Washington, a senior Car­world. ter administration official dis­The Campus Life CouncilAngry Iranian officials missed the threat of hostage attempted, on three differentwarned that the shah's late~st trials, but the State Department motions, to take immediatemove, his eighth since fleeing nonetheless issued a warning action concerning a possibkthe Iranian revolution in ] anu­that "the Iranian government is reorganization of the body at aary 1979, would obstruct pro­aware of the consequences and meeting last night. Each time gress toward resolving the cri­condemnation that would take the motion failed. 
sis over the . U.S. Embas:Sy place" if the Americans were Midway through the meet­hostages in Tehran. One official tried. 
ing, Mickey Turzai, formerrevived the threat of putting The ailing Mohammed Reza Keenan Hall vice-presidentsome hostages on trial. Pahlavi and his wife, Farah and Senior class president·[see related story on page 4] Diba, took off from Panama on elect, J>roposed that the term of Tehran radio called for a Sunday aboard a chartered office for members of the CLCmarch on the occupied embassy American jetliner that refueled be extended and elections fortoday to denounce what it said at a U.S.-Portuguese air base in new student representatives be was a "treacherous plot" by the Azores islands and landed postponed, in order that cur­the United States and Egyptian in Cairo yesterday. 
rent members may reconsiderPresident Anwar Sadat to help He left Panama just a day the compostion of the council. 
the shah escape extradition before Iran's lawyers were to 
Thz:., valiant domer tries to be the Pete Any proposed changes that
proceedings in Panama. 
[continued on page 4] What an ... k.ose ofthe fnsbee set. See the outcome might result from this evalua­
The Moslem militants hoi­
on page 4. tion would then be presented to the Board of Trustees of the 
~niversity at their May me~t­
According to Turzai, discus­sion is necessary to prevent the 
Alperovitz lectures on economics mg. CLC from getting caught in a continuous cycle. 


"We must seriously reconsi­
by Michael Mader supply, cutting back on govern­riled. stayed, however, asked ques­der who we represent, andStaffReporter ment regulations, and cutting Most of the 120 attending Dr. tions for 45 more minutes, some what the CLC can or cannot
back on the laborer's wages. Alperovitz's lecture wo~re econ­wanting confirmation of the 
do," Turzai explained. 
Declaring a gloomy picture of A balanced budget can have omics students attending at the perceptions of the talk, some This type ofquestion, involv­inflation and stating that "no ~ood psychological effects, but request of their teachers. Al­merely curious, while others ing a change in the preambleone knows where the economy 10 a practical sense, "a bal­though the crowd was attentive ":ere cynical about Alperovitz's to the CLC constitution, re­is going," Gar Alperovitz spoke anced budget has very little to and murmured several times vtews. 
quires that two-thirds of the to a group of 120 yesterd:JiY do with the inflation problem,'' about figures presented by After introducing conserva­nineteen members of tht> coun­
afternoon on "Inflation, Bask Alperovitz ·said. Tightening the Alperovitz, as the lecture wore cil must vote in favor of the
tive views, Alperovitz concen­
Necessities, and the Distribu­money supply is usually accom­on, the students began to leave. motion. The motion failed.
trated on what he sees is
tion of Economic Power'' in the plished by rising interest rates When Alperovitz finished his with nine members in favor of
happening and solutions to
Hayes-Healy building. on loans which adds to inflation hour-and-a-half-long lecture, the change, three opposed, and
problems posed by inflation.
Alperovitz has been an eco-rather than taking away from it. only 30 persons had stayed for three abstaining. "To tighten the money supply the question period. Those that 
[continued on page 5] !continued on page 3}
will only slow growth. It J?UCS the economy through a wnng­er," Alperovitz noted. 

A cutback on government 11 Overthrows tradition" 
regulations will do little, accor­ding to Alperovitz. It is estima­ted that these cutbacks will reduce inflation by 0. 7 percent, 

Senior Bar appoints Quinn
which is almost insignificant compared to the 18 percent 

By Colleen Short Senior Bar must be able to motivate fellowfacing Americans this year, he employees and handle any situation quickly and noted. Cutting back on wages, The four managers of the Senior-Alumni Club pmdently. "She (Quinn) impressed us as theAlperovitz admitted, would (Senior Bar) for the 1980-81 year were person most able to live up to all the demands slow inflation significantly, announced last night by Dean of Students of the position. She demonstrated a great dealhowever he cannot see where James A. Roemer. Kelly Quinn is the new of intelligence in her handling of the hypotheti­the U.S. can start cutbacks. The general manager and first woman to gain that cal situations we presented to her,'' Roemerproblem is that last year,
Speaker Gar Alperovitz position in the club's 15 year history, David said. "She is quick, straightforward and
mflation rose 13.3 percent while Link is the new Business Manager, Michael honest. One fantastic lady."

[photo by Greg Maurer] rages rose, on the average, Gies was named inventory manager and Robert Will Quinn encounter problems because sheeight percent. "This is a five 
Carey will be club mal[}ager. is a woman? The consensus is that she will not. 
percent cut in real income in

nomic director for both the Nineteen students applied for the four "Kelly impressed us as a person who can
one year," Alperovitz calcula­

House of Representatives and positions. Eight possible candidates were then withstand pressure from her peers. She seems
ted while adding that the

the Senate, and is a former selected by this year's managers, Tom Me to be able to handle tough situations as well as
American laborer cannot sus­

president of the Center for Grath, Clare Stack, Craig Zebold and Dick anyone," Roemer commented. 
tain such a cutback much

Economic Development. He has Wallach. After an extensive interview process, Mc.Grath asreed. "Kelly may abused
longer.

a masters de~ree in economics Roemer and Prof. Ken Milani, financial advisor because she 1s a woman, but she is very
President Carter's inflation

and a Ph.D. 10 political econo­of Senior Bar, selected the final four. intelligent and very well qualified and she is
plan encompasses all four 

my. He is now affiliated with thrusts, Alperovitz pointed out. In the interviews, the applicants were tough enough to handle any problem that may the National Center for Eco­presented with crisis situations which past arise."
"The plan, which Carter's advi­

nomic Alternatives. managers experienced. "We wanted to see Quinn stated, "A long-standing tradition has 
sors would probably admit if

Alperovitz began his talk by how they would handle the situations. We been overthrown. I don't see the fact that I am
pushed, will add to inflation by

defining the traditional conser­looked for patience, tact, and the ability to think a woman as a de~errent, but I will have to work
one or two points,'' Alperovitz

vative paradigm of attacking quickly," said present general manager Mc­that much harder to ensure a successful year.
said. Congressmen support ~he 

inflation. The usual method of Grath. The job would be a challenge to anyone--male
actions of Carter because they

handling inflation is to plan ;a Roemer added, ''We looked for a team that offemale.'' ·
believe that is what they are 

recession or to slow down tho~ could work well together. The four of them On plans for next year's Senior Bar, Quinn
supposed to do to stop inflation, 

economy, Alperovitz said. A according to Alperovitz. "Until have demonstrated a great deal of team spirit, said, '' I am really impressed with the present 
slowdown can be accomplished integrity, and responsibility in their past bar managers--! only hope that we can do as
the paradigms change, politi­

by four thrusts: balanc10g the endeavors.'' good a job as they have," she added, ''I'm
cians will continue to do what 

budget, tightening the money According to Roemer, the general manager of thrilled to death for the upcoming year."
they do,'' Alperovitz summa­

.-----------------------------~-~.-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
News in brief 
Tuesday, March 25, 1980-page 2 
Floundering campaigns 
Oil engineersplug hole in 
.Kennedy, Bush seek revival 
runaway Mexicandrillingrig 
(AP)-Sen. Edward M. Kennedy feverishly courtedMEXICO CllY (AP)-Engineers fmally managed to cap New York while Texas Yankeelxtoc I, the runaway oil well offshore in the Gulf of Mexico George Bush sought revival inthat spewed more that 3.1 million barrels of crude oil since his childhood Connecticut yes­it blew up June 3 and fouled beaches in Southern Texas, a terday on the eve of primariesspokesman for the Mexican petroleum monopoly said which threatened to shred their yesterday. The Pemex spokesman said a third and final once-impeccable credentials ascement plug was successfully introduced into the well 50 serious presidential conten­miles out at sea shortly before midnight Sunday, shutting ders.
off the flow of ,·oude oil and natural gas. 
BummedBelgian bank sues Chrysler to recoverloan DETROIT (AP)-Chrysler Corp. said yesterday it had been sued by a Belgian bank to recover a $10 million overdue loan. It was only the second such suit, though Chrysler has earlier admttted its overdue loans totalled $28.5 million at the end of February, plus $110 million overdue on letters of credit to Japanese banks. More suits could stymie Chrysler's effQn:s to arra~e $550 million in new bank loans and other credits, wh1ch the automaker must do to qualify for the $1.5 billion in loan ~uarantees approved by Congress. The company has said lt hoped to qualify by the end of this month. Gunmen assassinate bishop as horrifiednun looks on SAN SALVADOR • El Salvador (AP) -Gunmen entered a church in which Archbishop Oscar Arnulfo Romero of San Salvador was celebrating Mass yesterday and assassinated him, according to a nun who said she and 20 other persons saw the killing. The nun, who asked not to be identified, said in a tearful telephone interview with The Associated Press that Archbishop Romero, an outspoken critic of the violence in this small Central American nation, was shot in the chest as he celebrated evening Mass. Weather Cloudy and cold today. Highs in the upper 30s. Fair and cold tontght. wws in the mid 20s. Increasing cloudiness Tomorrow. Chance of fhowers late in the day. Highs in the low 40s.  
CantP-_u_s----­ 
1 pm BASEBALL n.d. v St. Joseph's Coli., JAKE KLINE FIELD. 1-3 pm EXHIBITION indian u. sculpture ISIS GALLERY old field house 4:30 pm SEMINAR "r.aleoecological investigations of watershel-lake relations ' dr. don r. whitehead, i.u. nloomington spons. by biology dept. GALVIN AUD. 6 pm i.s.o. MEETING LAFORTUNE BASEMENT 7 ,9,11 pm FILM "barbarella" spons. by pi sigma alpha. ENGR. AUD. 7:30 p.m. DISCUSSION "palynology: Methods and Pro­blems," dr. don r. whitehead, i.u. bloomington 355 galvin. _pons. by BIO DEPT. 7:30pm DISCUSSION "advantages of breast feeding" anne corcoran Ia leche league. spons. by soc. dept. 203 O'SHAG 8 pm LECTURE "the language of myth in my insular culture'' paul muldoon, (>OCt of belfast ireland spQOs. by n.d. and other org. in conJunction with "poetry & politics in ireland and indiana symposium'' 202 ARCH 8 pm CANCEllATION NOTICE "greenwood consort" concen. 8 pm SPEECH "racism at notre dame" prof. joe scott, soc. dep£. GRACE HAll PIT 10 pm AN TOSTAL STAFF SMOKER 21 i.d.'s required SENIOR BAR  

Despite his claim that New York--where a whopping 282 Democratic convention dele­gates were at stake--would put his withering challenge to President Caner back on track, the latest polls indicated that Kennedy would reap only ruin from the Empire State. 
The New York Daily News said that while Kennedy ran about even among the state's Jewish voters--about one-third ·of the total--he still trailed the president by 20 points, or 56 to 36. 
At least two Kennedy aides were _P-repared to tell him to quit 1f he loses New York badly. But Kennedy said he wouldn't do that, since he was "chemically and viscerally" suited to nothing less than a fight to the end. 
On the Repub!ican side, front-runner Ronald Reagan was already a winner in New York, where the GOP contest effectively boiled dov•n to a choice between his slates of delegates and those who were uncommitted. There was no preferential vote in the GOP ballotting, in which a total of 123 delegates were allocat­ed. 
Reagan had nine delegates already, since they were un­contested. Bush had 6 uncon­tested delegates, but was head-to,head against Reagan for only 31 more in 11 of the 
_The Observer_ 
Night Editor: Ryan 'Skipper' Ver Berkmoes Asst. Night Editor: Cindy Kliros, Bill "Homeward­bound" Keenan Copy Editor: Tom Jackman Layout staff: Kathy Vick, Katie Durkin News Editor: Mike Shields Sports Layout: Chri!; Needles Typtds: Kate Huffman, Kath}' Festin, Paula Shea, Michael Ortman EMT: Paul Mullaney Proofreader: Sal Granata NJ) Day Editor: Lisa Stancza SMC Day Editor: Kate Huffman AdDesign: Mike Holsinger Photographer: Greg Maurer Guest Appearances: Mary "I'm Sick" Leavitt, Ann "More than you know" Monaghan, Mikey, John "Just plain me" McGrath 
~
\6~. 
Till Obllfwr (USPS -121J Is 
pullliaMd Mllftdly tllrwgll Frilllr a­CIPIIII~rt..IUIIIIIIdVICIIIII,...... The Observer 11 ........., 11r a. ltudlntl " ,...,. .,.. ... 111111 
Mary'a Cllllp. 11._111._ _, • 
,.,._. ,.. sa ,., ,.., ,,. ,., 
--=TheObserver. f'.O . ._
a.-.. ........... s.­
... ....... jllld, ....... Din, ••
........... 
The Observer Is I _.., II U. A.-lltld "'-· All •• • tl n
........,.,. 

state's 39 congressional dis~ would rebound from a string of 
trices. Uncommitted slates disastrous showings. But a 
were uncontested in races for University of Connecticut poll 
61 delegates, but many of showed Reagan with a sizable 
those were likely to support lead, though Bush sought sal­
Reagan, since he was the vation from an unusually large 
favori~e _of the state party bloc of undeCided votes. 
orgamz£tlon. Rep. John B. Anderson, 
·That left Bush focusing on R-Ill., also was on the ballot in 
Connecticut, the state where Connecticut, but he was seen 
he grew up and the spot where running third in the contest for 
he vowed only a week ago he the state's 35 GOP delegates. 
Democratic Party 'gag' tape causes officials embarassment 
WASHINGTON (AP) -If the Republicans needed any help in lampooning President Car­ter, they could have gotten· it last weekend from none other than Democratic Party head­quarters. 
Callers who dialed a certain telephone number at the Democratic National Commit­tee heard a recorded spoof of the president, complete with background banjo music, taped excerpts from Carter speeches and at least one raw expletive from a country-rock star at a Carter concert. 
Embarrassed Democrats said the message, entitled "Quest for the Presidency 1976," was all a terrible mistake. 
It was a parry tape, they said, and was bemg used in a live test of telephone equip­ment for a dial-in message service at the Democratic Na­tional Convention in New York next August. 
When party officials dis­covered yesterday that people had learned of the gag tape and were dialing the number at Democratic headquarters to lis­ten to it, the tape was quickly yanked. 
"We were just testing out the equipment," pleaded Bob Hirschfeld, chief of broadcast services for the committee's news department. "We weren't expecting anyone to call during that time. That number has been out of service for at least a year and a half.'' 
Hirschfeld said he erased the entire three-minute tape. "It will never be on agam," he said. 
On the tape, heard by re­porters before it was removed from the (>layback machine, a serious-vmced narrator said Carter obtained "seed money" to start his 1976 presidential campaign by· signing on as a donor for the ''Atlanta Sperm Bank." 

_SPRING BREAK PARTY for ND/SMC STUDENTS Sponsored by NO Alumni Club of Ft. Lauderdale 
• 
Thursday April 3, 1980 6:30. 11 :00pm 

• 
Riverside Hotel pool area located on New River. 


1 block behind the Riverside Hotel. elocated at 620 E. las Olas Blvd .. Ft. lauderdale 
Admission $4°0 with ND SMC /D. Hamburgers. Hot Dogs. and Beer will be available for a small char!l~' 
Fer information call the Ft. Lauderdale NO STUDENT HOTLINE 463_
1472 

Senior Bar~ 
~~ 
f~ 
,~ .~ 


The Observer 

CLC members discuss the organiza#on 's future at last night's mee#ng. Story on page 1 continued below. fphoto by Greg Maurer] ' ' 
... C:LC 

[continued from page 1) with twelve members voting accomplishments named were 
aye, none nay, and two ab­the administration's considera­
staining. tion of the extension of the
A second motion, also con­
The CLC finally agreed upon lunch hours, .and ch:anges in
cerning the composition of the DuLac.
CLC, was proposed by Michael a proposal that a committee As the final meeting of the 
Sexton, Zahm hall's vice-prc:si­would study the composition dent for the·1979-80 academic and the effectiveness of the 1979-80 CLC broke up, Father 
year. In his proposal, Sexton CLC, and then make a report to Van Wolvlear remarked that suggested that the four studc:nt next year's CLC at their first the CLC was "trying too much 
too late" in proposing changes representatives to the CLC, meeting in April. 
In other business, the coun· in the preamble of the constitu­who are currently elected from 
tion of the advisory body. Butamong the hall vtce-presidents, cil discussed the question of a 
instead be chosen not only student center, and passed a Fr. Richard Conyers, Keenan from the vice-presidents, but motion appointins. a committe-e rector called the meeting "an also from any past studc:nt to study the posstbility of such exercise in futility." 
representative to the CLC. a center. The motivation behind this, Moira Baker, Lewis hall rec­
according to Sexton, was pm­tor, pointed out that a student motion of experience and con­center is needed. "I think it 
School~~
tinuity on the CLC. This motion would in part remedy the 
also met defeat, with twelve situation. LaFortune isn't ade­votes for, one against, and one quate for student needs,'' Bak­
sponsot·
abstaining. Professor William er said. She called the recent Eagan, a faculty member of t.he repairs to the student union CLC, cast the abstaining vme, building ''band-aid work.'' 
poets
stating that, "It isn't feasible Fr. John Van Wolvlear 
to piecemeal the operation." stressed the fact that ~ooda "Poetry and Politics in Ire­As the end of the meeting presentation to the admimstra­land and Indiana, A Symposi­approached, Student Body tion is needed to get the funds um about Analogous Islands''
for such a center. "If it's

President-elect · Paul Riehle is the focus of a gathering ofmoved that the original motion presented properly, we can get Hoosier and Irish _POets, educa­to extend the term of office for a foot in the door," Van tors and poliucians todaymembers of the CLC, and tlbe Wolvlear said. 
through Friday , with meetings postponement of elections for Possible sites for the student in Elkhart, Goshen, Northnew student representatives be center included the land where Manchester and South Bend. 
reconsidered. the fieldhouse stands, the The symposium, featuringRiehle added that thc:re Knights of Columbus building, six Irish writers and severalwould be a limit on the and the soon to be vacated American poets, educators,extension and postponement, facilities of WNDU. 
theologians and politicians, is
the limit taking effect two The meeting dosed as mem­cosponsored by the University,·weeks after students returned bers of the CLC con~ratulated Goshen College, Indiana Uni­from spring break. This suig­each other on thts year's versity at South Bend, Man­gestion was also turned down, accomplishments. Among the 
chester College, Elkhart com­munity schools, area churches and the Indiana Council on the Humanities.
SMCStudent Government The Irish participants are: 
Sean Cronin of the lrisl.J Times, Dublin; Peter Fallon, ]pOet and publisher, Dublin and Meath; Michael Longley, poet and assistant director of the Arts 
acceptingapplications 
liy Deidre Dalton presidents and hall presidents Council of Northern Ireland; are also Commissioners on the Sean Lucy, poet, critic and 
Saint Mary's Student Gov­Board of Governance. professor of English at Univer­ernment is presently accepting Sweeney said the Board is sity College Cork; John Me applications for Commissioners "a channel of communication Gahern, novelist from Leitrim, for the 1980-81 Board of Gover­where the officers can articu­and Paul Muldoon, poet and nance, President-elect Kath­late their ideas and goals and radio producer from Belfast. leen Sweeney said last night. also a board to hear the ideas The South Bend meetin~s The Governance Board is made of the students through com­begin tonight at 8 p.m. m 
up of the Student Body Presi­mittees.'' The Board, Sweeney Room 202 of Notre Dame's dent, Vice President of Student adde~, "decides the direction Architecture Buildipg when Affairs and Vice President of the student government should Muldoon discusses ''The Lan­Academic Affairs, who preside take by listening to these guage of Myth in My Insular over the Commissioners. ideas." Culture." Lucy and Longley The Commissioners that The structure of the Board discuss the same topic at 8:15 
make up the Board of Gover­will basically remain the same in the Little Theatre at IUSB. 
nance according to Sweeney, as this years Board, noted Tomorrow at 4:30pm in the 
are the Election Commissioner, Sweeney. She also emphasized Library Auditorium Lucy and 
the Off-Campus Commissioner, the Board's flexibility, saying McGahern discuss ''The Poli­the Development Commission­''We want to absorb pew ideas tics of Poetry." Thursday at er, the .SAPB Commissioner, and new people." 2:30pm in Room 121 of Notre the Spiritual Commissione:r, Application deadlines have Dame's Hayes-Healy JBuilding, the Athletic Commissioner, the been extended until this Fri­Muldoon, Fallon and Lucy will Judicial Programs Board Com­day. Applications may be discuss the politics of poetry, .. 
missioner and the Public Rel~l­p~c.ked up in the Student Adi­followed at 4:30pm by Longley • tions Commissioner. Class vmes Office. 
.. . reading his poetry~ · · · • ------~~--------·--------------------.------------------­
Tuesday,March 25, 1980-page 3 
Saint Mary's facilities reschedule hours 
By Patty Sheehan Tuesday morning, AprilS. The 
SMC/ND shuttle wdl not run· 
With Spring Break just a few from Saturday through Monday days away, many of the facili­April 7. Likewise, the Regina ties and services at Saint pool and Angela Athletic Faci­Mary's are rescheduling their lity will be closed through hours to accommodate those these dates. residing on campus during The Saint Mary's library will break, Sr. Karol Jackowski be open from 8 am to 4:30 pm announced today. through Friday, but will close 
Saga Food Servite will serve Saturday and Sunday. It will its last board meal at dinner reoeen Monday, March 31 Thursday night. The dining unul Thursday, April 3. The room will reopen Monday, library will be closed Good April 7 for dinner. The snack Friday through Easter Sunday. bar closes for break Thursday The post office and the at 2:30 pro and reopens Tues­bookstore will maintain regular day, April-S at 10:30 am. working hours throughout the 
The LeMans desk will be break, with the exception of open from 8 am to midnight Good Friday, when the post throughout break. Those re­office will be closed. maining on campus must make ''The LeMans desk will post room arrangements in LeMans, a schedule of SMC/ND ser­registering at the desk before vices for Holy Week," Jackow­
break. No fee will be charged ski explained. "If there is any 
for students staying in Le emergency or any reason a Mans. student would need additional Health services will close information, she should contact 
Friday afternoon, and reopen the LeMans desk." she said. 


STUDENT TICKET LOTTERY for 
Oheap !rick 
58.50 
periD 
The Observer 

This may be the thrill ofvictory, but was•• .athlete it worth it? [photos by Greg Maurer] 
SOMJIDI STORAGE SPACE S.Cci~ discoiDll for ID ad SMC students, 
259-0335 

Self Lock Sorage of &:Iinley 816East Mclinley 
llislunralm 

APPLICATIONS NOW AVAILABLE FOR: 
STUDENTGOVT. CABINET POSITIONS 
Pick up appHcations from S.G. Secretary, 2nd floor ofLa Fortune 
Applications due by thurs. march 27th 

Acareer in law­
without law school. 
After just three months of study at The Institute for Paralegal Training in exciting Philadelphia, you can have a stimulating and rewarding career in law or business ­without law school. 
As a lawyer's assistant you will be performing many of the duties traditionally handled only by attorneys. And at The Institute for Paralegal Training, you can pick one of · seven different areas of law to study. Upon completion of your training, The Institute's unique Placement Service will find you a responsible and challenging job in a law flm1, bank or corporation in the city of your choice. 
The Institute for Paralegal Training is the nation's first 
Tuesday, March 25, 1980-page 4 
Concerning Iran 

U.S. w-arns against retaliation 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The 

United States warned Iran 
sterday against punishing

f:
e American hostages held in 
ehran as retaliation for the 

eparture of the deposed shah from Panama. 
Insisting that the decision of Shah Mohammad Reza Pahlavi to leave Panama for Egypt was made by the former monarch alone, Carter administration of­ficials also tried to cool tempers in Tehran by offering to improve relations once the 4 Vz-month-old hostage cnsts ends. 
The officials said the Soviets pose a common danger to U.S. and Iranian interests in the Persian Gulf and reaffirmed an offer to discuss American aid after the 50 American hostages are liberated. 
The shah's sudden departure from Panama on Sunday upset "the hell out of people" in 
Tehran, a senior administration official acknowledged. And yet he dismissed a threat by Ayatollah Sadegh Khalkahi, an Iranian prosecutor, to put the Americans on trial and then jail them. The official said this 
was "not a very fOssible or probable outcome.' 
Even so, the administration 
issued a warning through State 
Department spokesman Hod­
ding Carter that ''the Iranian 
government is aware of the 
consequences and condemna­
tion that would take place" if 
the hostages were tried. 
A White House official, who asked that he not be identified, indicated the administration does not attach "the same degree of concern'' to the trial threat that it did when Iranian officials earlier suggested the Americans could be placed be­fore courts. 
''The concern we would feel has not changed," this official said, "but our assessment of the problem is certainly less than it was before." 
For the most part, officials within the administration in­dicated they felt the ultimate fate of the American hostages would not be affected by the shah's move to Egypt. He left Panama after two presidential advisers, Hamilton Jordan and Uoyd Cutler, held quiet nego­tiations with those in his entourage. 
The Iranian government had 
White House rejects athletes' counterproposal 
WASHINGTON (AP)-The Olympic Village or at the White House apparently has training facilines during the rejected a counterproposal by time they were on Soviet soil. American athletes to partici-They would do no sightseeing pate in the Olympic Games in or engage in other tourist Moscow th.is summer and, at activities. 
the same time, protest the In a formal statement, the Soviet military presence in Council said: "We feel, con­Afghanistan. sistent with President Caner's 
A White House aide, who position, that~ vis~ble, peace­asked that he not be identified, ful demonstrauon 1s the most said yesterday a similar propo-effective means by which the sal was considered two months world and the world's athletes ago, before President Caner can present thiS message to the called for a complete boycott of people of the Soviet Union." the Games, and it was reject-The counterproposal came a 
edThe official said, although he day after the athletes visited 
and most respected school for paralegal training. Since 1970. we've placed over 3,000 graduates in· over 85 cities 
--=~·~;s=-~::~;br.:=.:~
ly unacCcpiable. The. president tcr that the Uoiced States ·bas made bis decision.'' woutd not participwe in me 
nationwide. 
If .,ou're a seniorof tugh ~ic standing and looking 
Manbers of the Arbletes :SUilllllCt Gatnd in M05COw. · fofanaboweaveragecareer,contact your Placement . 
-&.a..;.,,..., Counci_"l met ewer ihe ···1 ~·J SaY..at this. momen.:t 
Olfic&forani~·withourrepresentative". · 
·~ ..._..,. -L-~ -..L---=n 
. .... . 

weekend ro IWnmer_ out the ·wwu. '.'DICI nauoos ...... ~.CO
...-....,..,~....: 
··· 
..

·~=~~~=· 
·.IIIONDAv Ai-ilaL iC.-..~..-.··-: .. -·-: : 

-;.,; •1nr-n-v but --~1..1 lllnll"t;t_ Couocil members ·....t.--Giber" 
• .·.:, ""· . -·-.... .-.: -· :, 

~~So~.----~ athletes and c:oacbes ..Ours 
--. 

~au th~Cere-will not pt. l_saydw·not~ -. 
monies. · any eq~-xarton. The,dccisioo The .. ~\ . Theywouldnorparriciparein has been made:'. . ........ -ff...::'\, . 235~ 171hStRI8t rbe opening ana ~ pa-The acrua1 decision lO bt>y­-~~r~ Philadelphia, PA 19103 ~oc show up lO ~any cott the. Games, bowc~ttt, m~ 
II, : = I ..._ , (2151 732-6600 medals they DUJht WID. They be made by me U.S. Olympic 
~ :• • ~ • ~ also would· arnve in Moscow Commiure: which bas s.i4 ir 
, 
. ~rp 11M ': +•• · AC-0035" · ~bdDn:theywem_tD~-~rapaube-!*safdle 
.. -.· . '-Co --.. -·--• : .• -. -: ~-aa4 -.ad bft ...mo.j... NaM~cM~"but.has -.. aic 
1 · ·· -. · . ~.,_.._.......--~ . • ., · •. · .~ .J-;_ ·-• -. ~-..L. !Lc::l . T:-­
hoped, through legal proceed­ings, to have the shah returned to Tehran for trial as a war criminal. Punishing him is the principal demand of the Mos­lem militants who seized the 
hostages  and  the  U.S.  Em­ 
bassy on ~ov.  4.  
Panama has  no  extradition  
treaty  with  Iran.  However,  

Iranian officials had taken a number of steps to circumvent that problem. 
Still, the White House of­ficials said flatly that "there was never any prospect that the shah would have been extradited to Iran and that was made clear to him and to his people.'' 
The families of the hostages were assured on Saturday that the shah would not return to the United States. "He (the shah) had made no request to come back here," the White House official said. "Those in­volved did not consider that to be the best option.'' 
However, another U.S. offi­cial said the option of returning to the United States was open to the shah but that he and his doctors decided against it. · 
...Shah 
to the hostage issue.'' 
Ayatollah Sadegh Khalkali, a 
leading Iranian revolutionary 
and former chief judge, told 
reporters in Rome that hostages 
accused of espionage would be 
put on trial and jailed if found 
guilty. ' 
He said the trials would take place after Iran's new Parlia­ment convenes--something not expected before mid-April at the earliest, Khalkhali, a mem­ber of the Parliament, also said the other hostages would be freed at that time. Khalkhali was in Rome en route to Libya for an official visit. 
It was also clear that the shah and those around him wer:e worried by Panama's willing­ness to consider the Iranian extradition request--even though some Panamanian offi­cials said he would never be sent back to Iran. 
Looking ha~gard and much older than hts 60 years, the shah was met by Sadat at the Cairo airport. The two accom­panied by their wives, took a helicopter to the Maadi military hospital, near the Nile five miles south of the cir:y 
Iowa Singers 
/)lr. t 
y,'esen 
·Con&erl 
.....~by· r.-:-L-.:-, 
J:YUAa. UQIMUQU 

. ~ .Handel. ·Barber and 
[continued from page 1, related story above] 
submit documents requesting his extradition for alleged mass murder and corruption during his three decades as Iranian monarch. . 
U.S. officials said medical reasons led the shah to accept Sadat's long-standing invitation to reside in Egypt. The shah's doctor's say he requires sur­gery to remove an enlarged and 
. possibly cancerous spleen, but U.S. specialists and Panama­nian physicians had been wran­gling over who would be res­ponsible for the operation in Panama. 
Iran's prosecutor general was one of the first !raman officials to react to the news that the shah had flown to Egypt. 
Denouncing Sadat as an American "stooge," Siyed Ka­rim Moussavi Ardabili said the shah's move was"a violation of international laws" that "is going to cause great difficulties 
~pR~bycbe_DowJ-. 

..(lWnherSinaus~-.• .. 
.a-pm in. Mon:au_lfall·~.l.Hde ~ ~ Sainr Mary s Col­~ nowr .Cbambe SiD­
who ::;: 'c:urreotfv 00 ~· in. 0Ucago and Sourh
1klid · . · and saUors 
• .we ~· · -· . 

.~~~ ~··· 8 :­
~·~-~--~.

tDWcaDr:s~lt.ira:. .·--. ­
~~~c!rer~d;. eopr.oo':.nn~~eiorWdcdina 
__ ... 
,. .~-· · -=---·-v•a~"Wg-··-····· .. ',. ~r·..u;a-. ...........,. ID -UE ·.--.aaa. •.-· -.-· -: · -• . · 
. . ·:... .: --~~¥""'!~ .... -...... ........ ; ,_.,-.. =~·-.• ,..·,,---~--.·-,· ..... -.: .. --.·-~.· _. __ -. ·• -.... .:;.-, ~·-~;;.-.. ,--· ··' -­
r.· . '...::~'-' '::~·~v'r~~r:: -~_::::t:~~~~~~·~-::{i;y;::~~t{~:flf!}tf; !!~~:;,;~ :~gr.:.;Ji:}~5: :t~::i: ,~:?\:2;.~:\~i:J: :;: \ ~}r ;!;!~~~t . ; • ~\~ 

.­

The Observer 
Tuesday, March 2 5, 1980 -page 5 


Grace Hall restdents attempt to bolster their team 's performance with good cheer at the Grace-Howard basketball championshtj'J. [photo by Btl/ Marquard] 
Snow in K:atlsas ; church shelters storm victims 
JETMORE, Kan. (AP) More 
than 100 travelers huddled in 
this small southwestern Kansas 
town yesterday after spending 
the night on pews behind\ the 
pulpit when they were stranded 
by one of the worst blizzards in 
the state this century. 
The 135 unexpected over­night guests at the United Presbyterian Church, inclu.ding a baseball team from a Colora­do junior college. were amoung thousands who took rc::fuge from the snowstrom across. the state at motels, National Guard armories and evena city jail. 
The storm also left up to a foot of snow in the Oklahoma panhandle, where rescue crews freed dozens ofpeople stranded in snowbound vehicles Sunday night. ''The area is paralyzed,'' said Phil Shideler of the National Weather Service in Topeka. Winds up to 45 mph accornpan­nied the fast moving strorm and reduced visibility to near zc:ro in some spots. 
''You could write a novel 
• • • Econotnics 

[continued from page 1] 
"What is happening is not a generalized inflation. It is not a wage-price inflation, but a price-wage inflation,'' Alpero­vitz said. Typical inflation is a result of wages driving \.IP prices, while at this time, prices are driving up wages. Alpero­vitz analyzed the cause of price hikes and concluded that super­inflation in the four basic necessities was the largest fac­
to;~flation in the four..year
• £ 
period of 1976-80 or the li>asic necessities rose from 3.7 per­cent to a January-annuaJtzed 
25.2 percent, while inflation on 
other commodities remained consistendy between 6.5 and 
-,--~~~=-~c~~d~~."~­
. . ';.. n11~~-divided:~it: oe­ccssuies into four seCtors; and analyKd thr problems .and solurioos ~ Cach one. In the a...._.-:..:. scaor ·-~·mere· ·is a ~·dueto the b"aby 
t.oona a11J1iaA .~ •e fiUniJy .cconomy... : the «<DDOIlisr .c.au. 
. . •• A~ _...::......;.;..~ .r_.:. . ..:A-.J· . . . .._
116oal. -~....--.....-~--'CU.. ~~·:: ~.-.'.·:. . -·.-. •=-~­
-·.. -·-­
about this,'' said the Rev. Stan Adamson of the church in Jetmore, which has a popula­tion of about 1,000. He des­cribed how two mothers and their children were seperated from other families in their party when their car made it to Jetmore, but two other cars became marooned north of 
town. 
''They were really worried because there were children in the other cars. The mothers were here from 6 o'clock until about 9:30 and the sheriff came in carrying the kids. It was quite a poignant reunion. There were a lot of tears and kisses." 
The 22-member baseball team from Trinidad State ju­nior Colle~e was also stranaed overnight m the church. "The baseball team even found a bunch of teen-age girls, and they played cards most of the night. Playing cards in the church,'' Adamson said laugh­ing.· "Fortunately, we're Uni­ted Presbyterians, and we don't mind that." 
~entration on tighter budget­mg. one of the four thrusts of Carter's plan, closes down on house development, rather than opening up die field, Alperovitz said. The solution to the hous­ing problem will come by 
planning housing on the nation­al and local levels. The plan­ning does not mean concentra­tion on construction, but on all aspects, including credit control and tax incentive, he conclud­ed. 
In the health sector, Alpero­vitz sees third parties as the 
reason for medical costs piling up. Alperovitz suggested .a solution would be to look into a national health care p~ 
gram.fu!re~~-t;in~o :: 
food sector. hccause.mc aru­mals which providr meat and dairy products depend on grain, Atpcrovitt noted...We att the: ooly COdnU'y dw .uo.n sbort­ages ro ricodia tbroUibour ~ 

Oilin Gull 
Explosion sears offshore site 
GALVESTON, Texas (AP) ­
An explosion and fire seared 
an offshore drilling platform in 
the Gulf of Mc:~xico early 
yesterday, killing two men, 
mjuring 29, and leaving four 
persons missing, officials said. 
The rig, drilling a gas well 
about 100 miles off the upper , Texas coast, en1pted mto flames in the pre-dawn hours, sending men in the crew of 41 scurryin~ for safety. Only six 
escaped mjury. 
The Coast Guard in Galves­
ton said a fixed wing aircraft, a 
helicopter and the cutter Pont 
M?~oe were searching for the 
mtssmg crewmen, who were 
said to have been in the 
vicinity of the explosion. 
Wild well fighter Red Adair put a crew on a n~:arby rig to assess the damage and deter­mine how best to put out the. raging fire. 
The cause of the explosion was under investigation. 
The survivors were taken by boat to another rig five miles away to await medical person­nel airlifted from the coast. 
Helicopters ferried them to John Sealy Hospital in Galves­ton. All 29 injured, many on 
Beach or 
or the Poconos, but it's horne to some of us, and to some of you, too. Ifyou're not spending a lazy college summer at a famous resort, con­sider an industrious summer at Duquesne University.. Duqilesne'!i Summer School offers over I00 courses in I, 3, 4, 5and 6-week sessions. You can el!lrn one credit 11 week in a flexible schedule of early morning, late morning, afternoon and evening courses which will allow you to work a full-tlmejob. Or you can complc:te two sessions by June 10 and still have two months free. 
The Duqu~:sne Summer Program offers: 66 cou-.es in Liberal Arts. including Sociology in Sports, Criminology, Interpersonal Communi­catiol\, Selt & Sexuality, World Religion. 
CaD this n&IIDber: 

.. -11~43-1-6668 -~-, ~ ... 
stretchers, had arrived by 
noon, said Sealy spokesman 
Miles Kanape. 
Fourteen were treated and 
released Kanape said, and 
others were admitted or held 
for observation. The injuries 
ranged from burns to "mul­
tiple trauma" involving frac­
tures, abrasions and cuts, he 
said. 

A medical corpsman who had flown to the scene told some reporters vhat many men were injured when they donned life jackets and jumped into the water. However, a company spokesman said evacuation capsules were used.. The plat­form itself is about 100 feet above the water line. 
The drlling platform is oper­ated by Pennzoil for a group of owners, but Pennzoil had only one man on the rig, said com­pany spokesman Bob Harper in Houston. The others were con­tract workers for Pool Offshore Co., located in Harvey, La. 
Rescue operations were hampered by high winds and waves as a cold front moved through the area. 
At one point, a: helicopter trying to transport the most 
courses in Education, 
:Zl courses in Business, including Foundations of 
including Accounting, Education, Teaching Ele­
Introduction to Compu­
mentary Science, Educa­
ters, Principles of tional Psychology. 
Management, Probability 9 courses in Pharmacy, 
and Statistics. 
including Physical Phar­
6 courses in Nursing, macy, Social and Behav­
including Short term ioral Aspects of Illness 
and Long-term Setting, and Health. 
Systematic Inquiry. Plus a broad range of Music courses for piano, voice, brass, organ and strings. 
---· 
. ,· 
. -·­
-· 

seriously injured had to be tied to the platform to keep from being blown overboard. But at about 7:15a.m. it managed to lift off with the first of the injured for the trip to Galves­ton, which took more than an hour. 
Harper said many of the men got off the platform via two evacuation capsules, which he 
said  "look  a  lot  like  flying  
saucers."  Each  holds  28  
persons.  

-The capsules are completely sealed and have a small power unit aboard that allows persons inside to lower the unit mto the water and then move at rela­tively slow speeds. 
''Our boats picked them out of the capsules," Harper said. "We had a 185-foot work boat and a 90-foot standby boat at the rig. That's standard proce­dure." 
One 19-year-old survivor, Gary Owen, who worked for a caterer, told his father he had ridden the evacuation capsule. YoungOwen, who suffered cuts 
on hts. elbow and kneecaps, 
would ilot discuss his 
experience. 
. ·Obser" ·.· .·...
-~ .. ~:.
.·­
__._ ue · ver­

-
• 
The Observer -Sports Tuesday, March 2 5, 1980 -page 6 
(continued from page BJ 
''Coming back has been the story of thit> team all year,''

...Title 
said Smith, who put in two killing foul shots at the end for Louisville. "This shows a lot of 

people. They called us a team times before to the Bruins in UCLA coach Larry Brown that would fold, but we really the NCAA playoffs. applauded Griffith as "a greatshowed them." "This time 1t was our turn," player'' and applauded the 
The victory was especially Crum said. "I love it. This is entire Louisville team for its sweet for Crum, a former UCLA the greatest. The kids really poise.player and assistant coach. His held their poise and hit the free "It boiled down pretty simply Louisville teams had lost three throws down the stretch.'' to the fact that they made the 
shots and we didn't," Brown 
said.

Molarity by Michael Molinelli 

...Howard 

[continued from page BJ 

halftime advantage. The North Quad challengers held their biggest lead, 33-24, at the very outset of the fourth quarter. It was shortly thereafter when the 

1 momentum turned completely around. Keenehan scored eight of his 
-
ten points in that fourth-quarter stretch, while Dix, having trou­ble connecting from the floor, hit all of six free throws in that 

Doonesbury 


7l«JlrW!i?SIS MJTHIN6, YCAH, 8tJT MAV. AAY, I Jr::/IKJtU 7UfJ HOUI?S A GUY/(}{()PtffIN OV­
A OAY~ &RSIX ~A /JAY 

The Daily Crossword 
3/25/80



tuesday march 25, 1980 
?pm:..Jam 

3DRAFTS $1.00 KAMIKAZEES 50¢
I 
I 
~·)'· . '·I,, .
• 
span. "For the first three quarters the ball just wasn't going in at

by Garry Trudeau 
all," Berryman sa1d. "They 
played a really tough man-to­man defense, which drove us out of our offense. They cut off
soaP NAH,H& 
our passing lanes and they cut
AMAZ/1-Ki.. 
H&MN? IUA5 71?/PP£1) 
off our driving lanes."
IPBYSK/N
\ 
\ 


But when Howard finally got its passing and driving lanes back, it was Keenehan that helped his squad capitalize on it. 
''Keenehan really came through amazingly,'' Berryman said. "He was a freshman playing like a senior. He had two super drives at the end that showed lots of guts for a freshman that was working with all juniors." 
Keenehan, meanwhile, felt 


that it was Howard's defensive  
ACROSS  27  Sellout  55 Sedan  26  Matterhorn,  play  that  sparked  the  come­ 
1 Ellipsoidal  letters  57  Anthropoids  for one  back.  
5 9 14  "LOCkS· ley-" Billow Oscar· winning  30 33 37 40  Destroys Deluges Highly classified Grape  60 66 68  Minnesota hockey team Lover Here one slogs  27 Endured 28 Musical movement 29 Of seeing 31 Baby buggy  "In the first game against Grace (52-39 Grace win last W ednesdar.) we weren't agres­sive at al ," Keenehan said.  
movie  variety  69  Regrets  32 canary's  "We started playing aggressive  
15 Exchange  41  Being:  70  Of bees  cousin  defense in the fourth quarter, 
premium 16 Fantastic 17 Halloween et al. 18 Sediment  42 44 45  comb. form Goldsmith's unit -to five Hatred  71 72 73 74  Cupid Formerly, once Laconic Seines  34 35 36  Strong bulb Italian lady Like San Francisco  and that's when we got it going. We came up with a lot of steals, and were able to get our running game going."  
19  Ruhr city  47  Important  75  Brewery  streets  Dix led a  balanced Howard  
20 23 24  Steinbeck novel Shelter Sound of grief  evEtnt 49 Welby, for one 51 -tide 52 Forty winks  sights DOWN 1 Molding 2 Acclamation  38 39 43  Daydream setting Yarn Chips and others  attack with 12 points, while Paul Mazanec and Keenehan had 11 and 10, respectively. Tim O'Connor led all scoreres  
25  Use a  53  Particular  3 Long time  46  Lea sound  and  hit  15  for  Grace,  while  
scythe  time  4 Jousting  48  Bath et al.  teammate  Rich  Damberg  had  
Monday's Results MA MAI R E c A p p E A K 0 N U S A 0 A L E A X L E 0 N T H E V E R G E S I T E  field 5 Gridiron figure 6 Author James 7 Told fibs  50 Before abOut and away 54 Brutus, for one 56 Term of  11. ' 'I guess if we had to lose to anyone, I'm glad we had to do it to Howard," Grassey said. ''They have some real class  
D I E. R I N S E R  S T 0 P  8  Also-ran  respect for  players. Dix and Mazanec, for  
Y EISMA N.A G E­1-E T EIS G I R D E!R Ill IN TIWIO SIH A K E IS •A D E IIVIIIEIS),I:EtRIN-G R IN E L L • J ~~ST A B D U IT IT 10 S E D 0 M P A 0 S­I-R B S R I T T E R MtE N U R E F E R S R A Y  9 10 11 12  Bishopric R.E. Lee's alma mater Hebrides dialect Hold on property  57 58 59 61 62  a Msgr. "I smell -" Vatican figure Qatar VIP Frost Turkey- example, are both all-state players from high school." In the women's interhall championship, Breen-Phillips edged Walsh, 22-19, in a dose struggle the entire way. Jan  
lA R I D  A L L s EIT T 0 G 0  13  Furnished  63  Air  Schlaff led the victors with  12  
lliiNG K N E E  GLINT E S T E S  VOLT A P E S /25/80  21 22  Seep Shipshape clock  64 65 67  Take five Fast planes Wallet item  points, while Carrie Luepke had eight for Walsh. The Breen-Phillips triumph  

~ives 
that dorm championships tn both women's football and basketbaJl.

Rent Your Tuxedo At•..•. 
CENTURY FORMALWEAR 
anything in stock 
$2995 
1622 MISHAWAKA AVE. (S.B.) 281·5938 
Banquet tickets on sale 
The 1980 Notre Dame hockey banquet will be held on Thurs­day, April I7, in the Mo~o­p,ram Room at the ACC. Tic­kets are priced at $10.50 for members of the Blue Line club, and $11.50 for non-members. They are available by calling the hockey office at 8488, during normal b1;1~iness hours.. 
J J. ~ 
I. 

I----­
The Observer • SJtOrts Tuesday, March 25, 1980 -page 7 
; .. 

"You'd have to say the Nation­price. Take the few NCAA mum am~nt of time you'd be 
al Collegiates in 1959 was the champions, for instance. Guys missing would be about 10 best," he smiles of the first of like Billy Martin, John Mc­days.' But Princeton says they two unbeaten seasons. "Actu­Enroe and Jimmy Connors-­can do it. UCLA says they can
... Fallon 

(continued from page 8) 
the Physical Education De­partment and guided the Irish wrestlers for 18 years. In 1957 he added tennis to his coaching duties, a job he has come to cherish more and more as the years pass. 
"Maybe I'm mellowing out as I get older," admits Falllon, "but I've enjoyed coaching more the last couple of sea­sons, mostly because of the types of kids. we've had ~he great leadership. I find a h1gh positive correlation between good leadership, a good cap­tain and the success of the team. We had that last year with Mark (Trueblood) and again this year with Ca1rlton (Harris)." 
A whole lot of intc:rnal 
leadership and a little das.h of 
Tom Fallon--the secret to Notre 
Dame's success for the past 25 
years. "You name the cap­
tain," he says, "and I'll tell 
you whether or not it was a 
good season." 
Fallon knows what his job is, 
and does it well. "I find that 
when lou get to the college 
level o coaching, most of these 
k;1s games are set. Thc:re's 
not a whole lot you can do 
about individual technique. 
Take (Mark) McMahon (this 
. ~. \ ,\__' 
year's number one singles player), for example. It would take major surgery to give him a big serve," he says with a smile. "But it's amazing what attitude can do. Sometimes when these kids get really enthused about it, they play better than they're capable of. I don't think the coach is as much a motivator as the team's morale and the leadership of the captain. 
''You name the captain , and I'11 tell you whether or not it was agood 
season.'' 
''The job of a college coach today is to offer the best in the way of facilities, opportunity to develop, organization, a good schedule ana a certain amount of discipline." 
As the 63-year old coach reflects on his tennis career, certain moments highlight the Fallon era. What would any coach remember better than the year his team won it all? 

ally, we tied Tulane under the scorin~system the~r had then." But h1s is quick to point out, "We'd have won hands down ifwe'd had the present scoring system, but they'd only let you take four players at the time." 
Since then, Fallon has wracked up an impressive 350-131 tennis record, second only to retired baseball coach Jake Kline on the all-time Notre Dame coachi1ng victories list. Including hiis wrestl~ng wins, Fallon totals 412 behmg Kline's 552. Add to that four Eastern Collegiate Champion­ships and 21 (on th,e w~y to 22) winning seasons, and lt spells nothing but success. 
Fallon realizes that there are a number of teams in the country that his teams could never compete with ... but they do, nonetheless. "The kids don't mind losing to Michigan 9-0," he says, "because they know that they'll never im­prove playing wc:aker oppo­nents.'' 
At present, the: university allots two full scholarships for Fallon to divide as he pleases, three grants fewe:r than the NCAA's maximum limit of five, a situation he is willing to live with. 
''Ifwe had a full scholarship program here, ther,e's no doubt m my mind that we'd be nationally ranked every year, but I'm not sure it's worth the they go to .a sc~ool a~d 
announce they re gomg to wm the NCAA championship their freshman year and them go pro. As acoach and a teacher, I'm not sure I want that guy. The high turnover rate hurts the other guys on the team, and that guy isn't getting out of college what a student-ath­lete should--a meaningful de­gree. 
"'"Most top-20 schools have gone all the way in terms of time and money," he adds. For example, they now have about five indoor tournaments during the winter. At the last NCAA meetings, I asked a guy from Princeton, 'How can your kids afford that much time away from school? The mini-do it. In aU justification, I couldn't take these kids away 
from school for that long. " 
It seems that every week we hear about another athlete or group of athletes that received credit for a course he or she never took or has someone else take an exam or some other unethical (not to mention ille­gal) tactic, somehow connected to making their team the very best. In the long run, both the school and the athlete suffer. 
Tom FaJlon's teams may have faded fmm the national stage that they once performed on, but two things have re­mained constant--winning and learning. . i
Tomo_rrow--30 years worth of --~ memones. 
• • • Statetnent 
[continued from p. 8) 
Whereas Wisconsin, Minneso­ta, North Dakota, and the like. can walk out the back door and pick up quality hockey players, northern Indiana isn't exactly a farm system for the National Hockey League. 
And· thira, the Irish now must. kill the opponent's two­man power ·play all season long. Why should Notre Dam~ play with a hand tied back? 
If the baby had been born without an arm, it would be accepted a little easier than waLching the parent cur it off. 
If the University is trying to set a precedent for other schools to follow, it's going about it the wrong way. Be­Sides, it was Notre Dame that voted against a ''geographical­ly more compact league," in 1978 and agam last year. Wh) the sudden change of tune? 
All classified ads must be received by 5:00 p m. , two days prior to the issue in which the ad Is run. The Observer office will accept classifieds Monday through Friday, 10:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. All 
classifieds must be pre-p;;;id. either In person or through the mail.
Classifieds 
Notices 
Typing Plus. Term papers. theses, dissertations. Light editing. g~.ost writing. Literary search, bibllograph· les, genealogies. Job resume service. 
Sliding rate scale based on lead time. Special discounts on full contracts for theses and dissertations. aardvark automatic solutions p.o. box 1204 413624/phone (219) 289-6753. 
MORRISSEY LOAN FUND 
All LOANS PREVIOUSLY DUE ON APRIL 7 WILL BE DUE ON APRILS. 
Typing done in my home. Unlver-.;ity Park Mall area. Call between 8 a.m.­7 p.m. at 277-3085 
Morrissey loan Fund Last day for undergrads to applj• is march 26. 
Professional Typing Reasonable Rates. Experience ty!)ing thesis, 
journal articles.  291-0495.  
Typing  done  in  my  home.  Gall  
between  8:00  a.m.  and  7:00  p.m.  

University Park Mall area. 277-3085. 
Willdotyping. Call: 287-5162. Noat, accurate. 
Lost&Found 
lost 1 pair Nike -high top basketiJall 
shoes, white w/black behind ACC. 
Mar 19th Call Rob at 1865. 
Lost: H-P 25 Calculator during week ol March 10-14 if you've got it, please return to the Dean's Office In the Engineering Bldg. Thanks. Re\'\'ard Offered. 
Lost: ND Class ring. Engraved Inside MJK '81 Please call Mike 18436. 
Completely furnished apt. to sublet for summer. On bus line to ND campus. Call 288-1291 after 10:00 
p.m. ­
For Rent 4 man house contact Greg 8823 or Joe 8822. 
For Sale 
Plana ticket for sale: one..,way from Rochester, NY to South Bend. Leaving April 7. Very cheap. Call Tim 1387. 
For Sale 1975Lemans Pontiac (Sports­coup). Good condition excellent stereo. $950. 8823 Greg. 
1972 ·o~w Sedan -orange rebuilt engine, radial tires. rear window del., 
A.M. stereo Radio -24,500 mi or engine -$1250 Call Greg -work 277-0703, Home 683-7303. 
Got ablank space on your wall? Fill it with color basketball action photos. All players. all sizes. Cheap. Not available from Ronco or K-tel: Call 8932. 
75 W Beetle like new Regular gas, fuel injection after 7 Call 277-0339 $2900 
Wanted 
Need ride to Tampa, Fla. for Spring Break. Will share driving and ex­
penses.  please  cal  Christian  272­ 
7987.  
Renting  car  to  PHILADELPHIA.  

Need RIDERS. $60 round trip. Call Greg 1757 
Taking riders to Lauderdale, Orlando­Daytona. Leaving Thurs. afternoon. 3/27 one way or round trip. Mark 3462 or Stave 3489 
Need ride to St. Louis area lor break. Will share$ and driving. Call Brian at 3601 
Desperately need ride to & from Buffalo, N.Y. for spring break. Call Rich Laski 6721 
Desperately need ride to South Cen­tral Pa. Passing thru? Jim 1688 
Two Riders wanted to share expenses to Florida. Round -trip only. 233-5686. 
Need a ride to and from Ph lily. Can leave thws and will help pay ex· penses. Call Jim 1867 
Going my way? Need ride to Philadelphia for break. Mary 41-4105 
Wanted: Need a ride to St. Peters-Need ride to Lafayette, IN. March 27 or 28. Call Ed 1820 

Need ride to Detroit for spring break. Please call Sharla 640!1 and/or Bill 1944. 
Need a ride from oston after .break? Call 1268 or 1271. 
Need ride to Madison, Janesville, or Milw. Call Dan 3322 
Riders needed' to Minnei>Ota. Leaving Wed. or Thurs. 232-5582. Call Molly. 
Ride to Chicago Airport needed, can leave 7-11 a.m. Thurs. Call Joe 1859 
Personals 
WANTED: IRISH BANEJ 
FOR AN TOSTAL FRIVI[)LITIES. 
IMMEDIATELY CALL: 
KEVIN: 287-4635 
MURPH; 7821 
Pete: 

Thanks for lunch and for your friendship. Once again you've coma through to make to my clay special.
Ro-ro 

Stasey, Katie and Tina. 
Thanks for the cookies-the aphro­disiacs were especially good .. Maybe we'll return the favor We. night$?$
The Guy T-Bailers. 

Toots-Let me call you Sweetheart. 
---------·--­
Twiggy Tagli
May the Easter Bunny fill your basket with real milk chocolate and jelly beans and -what the heck-wine and cheese. Moo's too!
________.._____ 
Coach, Jan, Ryan and Hairy Monster, I love you. Happy Easter. 
--------·-----­
WILL Somebody please teach "super Partyer" John S how to party. We don't want him to "blow chow" on LaFortune steps agaiin. Maintain Sigh! 
To Mary K., Mike M., Nell O'B., Joel 
A., Lois K., and everyonre else on the 
best nile staff of the week-
Have ag reat vacation and take 
care! See you next Thursday.
Margaret 

Gabe Pentz-Congratulations 13r Best Wishes! 
t<.A.F .. G-day minus 55 and counting down. Are you glad? Anyway, have a good break. Admirer 
An TosteI Staff Smoker!! 
10:00 p.m. Tuesday, March 25th at Senior Bar {21 ID's required) 
Dear Mary Clare, 
May life hold for you all the joys and secrets it has to offer. I'm sure you will find happiness for you are a special person.
Until we meet again, Joe 
'Brown Eyes', 
Often, when I yearn for someone to talk to. I think of you, yet I am apprehensive. Please help me out of my shell, and closer to you, by accepting my apologies. let's forget the past and look towards the future. our future. 
P.l. 

Dear Molly, 
I can only dream of the time I will have you in my arms. For only when I have you in my arms can I give of myself totally. in the way only both of us know. Please let my dreams become reality. 
lomez. the Spud-man 

Silly Goose. What are these milk stains on my sailing shirt? 
Nice Teeth 

Color basketball pictures still avail­able. Slam dunks make great decora­tions. Call 8932. 
Volunteers Naaded: 
1. 5students, help transport mentally retarded to train for special olymr.ics, 
, ,Monday and Wednesdays .even ngs, ca.tlng April 14. ' 
l. Help repaint small oflce, In evening, waUtO! March 24-27. ContaLt Wlllll t; $tr"''lel • 7308 ------'\.,'!11...... ---­U-G-l-Y. H&1& !. i;~A !·' !tbi! Mr. Bill for UMOGr 
"TIPPECANOE PLACE" COMING SOON 
_w_A_T~~~~~~~~­
Than... to Sc...;. -Tom .I.,Ko"'"z, Mark 
,.. ~~ '" 
'P.S. Go for It Scoop, scrap the top 40 and review the rest. Nothing Is too strange (Remember DEVO). And don't let them cut you back. go For ItS 
Hey monopoly players -show your skill at the MONOPOLY MARATHON for Southeast Asian Refugees in St. Joe County., Will be held April 11-12. Rick up registration forms and pledge sheets at the Student Activi­ties Office in Lafortune. 
THE SENIOR CLASS NEEDS PED, PLE TO WORK FOR SENIOR WEEK. IF YOU ARE INTERESTED CALL NICK 233-5525 MARY 3212 
Ahmad, We are expecting 49. Godd Luck! The Marshmallow Chicks 
P.S. Happy Birthday 
Mary Beth, 
Watch out!  I'm coming to get you.  
Boarman  
Leslie,  

You can call me blind. but you sure look good to me. let's go out after break ...if you're still interested. 
That Blind Date 

Dear Doubtful Don't be sad cause I won't let you down. Joe 
Kate K. 1hope you have a great break. and may you only consume store bOli~Jht pizza. 
RVB 

·-------------­
Patti, Only 2 days. 
~ 

Neil: No sense going to windy Chicago and getting blown anyway.
Ryan "Papa" Ver Berkmoes 

Angie Angelo,Hany In there kid-you've got the talent!. , Susette Davinci 
Mary N. Schnieder: . 
Former Miss Dairyland runnerup. will get the cheese out of the dome. Elect Mary university president. she'll
be at home in the dome. 


burg, Fla. Will share expenses. --------------P, K. Connelly a!td everyone else who p . f b th sh 1 d p e ·d
1 1

Going to Florida at Break? Call Eric It Please call 5480 (SMC, See Jane Fonda exploited tonight. helped us establish "Muslcviews" aJd or Y e ; ne er or r Sl en 
77 11
l:_~-:~t~~~~~:-~-:-;~:~:~:~~~: :~:~:~~~:-~~::-,.~:~.:-.-b~~!~!~~:~~~~~f~f~~~f-~~:~;~-~~-~~~~~~~~::~~~~-.-.~...r:~~~7~.~~~:~:~~~.~~:~:~~~.~.~.~:~;~.·~;~.~:~.·7.·~.·~.·~.7.·~:~"7:7.~7~7~7·b~:~u~~-~~r~~:~d--~-k_l_n~rn~•-·--~.~.~.~.~:r~~~r~r~~~~~~;:::}~.\~ 

Tuesday, March 25, 1980 -page 8
~Rorts 
Griffith leads Louisville to titie 
INDI:\NAPOLIS (AP)-When Griffith scored 11 hard­
r he L.>uisville Cardinals need earned points in the first half 
some·t•ne to rake over in the late against a tenacious UCLA 
"rages of a game, they only look defense that held Louisville to a 
for one player. poor 11-of-31 shooting perfor­
And, as us1,al. superstar mance. The Cardinals only 
Darrell Griffith 'arne through managed to score 26 points in 
for tl.t>lll. the first half and went into the 
··r felt I had I·' take charge. dressing room at in::ermission 
I'm tht· senior, · L•Juisville's trailing by two. 
All·Arnnit:an guard said last ''Coach (Denny Crum) told 
night afrt>r lc:·ading the Cardi­us we weren't hustling," said 
nals t<'> the ~CAA basketball Louisville forward Derek Smith. 
championship with a tense 59· "He told us to go out early 
5-i victorv. during intermission before 
Griffir h st:ored a game-!-igh UCLA did and just loosen up.'' 
~5 poin1s, including seven in Louisville might have been 
rhe Ia..,, six minutes, to help loose, but the game was tight 
rurn an •und the tough defens­the rest" of the way -until 
Ive ~truggle with UCLA and Griffith made his presence 
gain ~<>u1sville its first national known. The Cardinals trailed by 
ririe. !ive points in the late stages 
··I :<new the other guys could before rallying behind the high­
do it,"' Griff1th said. "But I felt flying, six-foot-four Griffith, wh 
it was m~ responsibility." leaps ·as high as any college 
Griffith also scored 34 Sarur­player in the country with a 
day to help the Cardinals beat 48-mch vertical jump. 
Iowa, 80-72. in the semifinals at 
Market ~.quare Arena. [continued on page 6] 
Fallon gets older, gets better 
Editors Nme: This is the Dame announced that wrestl­had no idea that I would be first of a two-part senes on ing coach Tom Fallon would here as long as I have. That's Notre Dame's winningest ac-add tennis to his coaching the wonderful thing about his
Howard retains cro'Wn 
tive coach, men's tennis men-chores. place, I guess. You're ap­
tor Tom Fallon. Things haven't changed as pointed to a position, and the 
by Paul Mullaney But how things changed. much as you might think in the next thing you know, you're
Assistant Sports Editor Howard, largely on the ef-By Michael Ortman past quarter century. The celebrating your 25th anniver­
forts of junior Kevin Dix and Sports Wn"ter Bucs squeeked past the Orioles sary. The years go by so 
Things didn't look that rosy freshman Bob Keenehan, out-The year was 1956. The in seven. Ali says he's retired. quickly."for Howard's interhall basket-scored its rivals, 16-5, the rest Dodgers nipped the Yankees The Canadiens could do it Fallon's ties to Notre Dame ball ream as time became of the way and claimed the four games to three in the again ("God forbid," cry the go much farther back than his scarce in last night's champion-1979-80 Division-A title with a World Series. Rocky Marciano Flyers). Billy Martin was in years as a coach. Like everyship game against Grace in tht' 43-40 victory. retired as the heavyweight trouble with the Commish for young man he has ever had on ACC pit. "We went out of our pattern boxing champion. The Mont-picking on a fan. Carter seems a team, he too was a Notre 
With only seven minutes left at the end,'' said Grace _player-real Canadiens won the Stanley certain to renew his lease on the Dame student. Following his in the conresr, Howard trailed coach Gary Grassey. "It just Cup for the second straight White House. The Irish foot­graduation, Fallon spent four by eight points, 35-27. Coach seemed like nobody really wan-year. Baseball star Ted Wil-ball team had its worst season years as a naval officer and Mike Berryman's squad had ted to put them away. We just Iiams was fined for spitting at a in 15 years while Vegas Fer-upon his discharge, completed only been able to connect on 10 fell flat, and we gave them way fan. The nation was in the guson grabbed most of the his graduate studied at Colum­of Its first 36 field goal tries. roo many easy shots in the last process of reelecting Dwight headlines. And Tom Fallon is bia University, receiving his And it looked as if Howard just five minutes." Eisenhower. Notre Dame's still the Notre Dame tennis masters and doctorate in 1951. might have to turn over the title Grace jumped out to an early football team suffered through coach. Later that year, he returned which it claimed in last year's lead (5-0) and coasted to a 21-16 a dismal2-8 season, while Paul "My understanding at the to Notre Dame as a member of championship game over Mor-[continued on page 6] Hornung realed in all the post rime was that the job was to be 
[continued on page 7]

nssey. season laurels. And Notre temporary," says Fallon. "I 
--~-------------------------------------------------------------­
A statement with something to say 
Tennessees and the Marvlands.
Editor's note -This is the first in a two-part 
Digger will also have a major voice in the
senes offen.ng initial interpretations of this week­
selection of a possible new coach. Current coach
end's statement dealing with the University's 
Sharon Petro is a candidate.
/?roposed compliance with Title IX. Today · 1\1ichael 
What can one say about Digger running the
·-"·umen 's athletics and scholarship cuts. Tomorrow 
. tickets, pnces and the endowment. Ortman 
transition except good luck. If anybody can sell basketball, it's Digger Phelps. Back to the play-by-play: 
Current grants-in-aid to Notre Dame male
that does not mean that the other women's sports
"How quickly they forget the 1969 New York 
athletes ... are unaffected... with the exception of
must follow suit. Unlike the NCAA, the AlA W 
Mets, ·' said co~edian George Bu~ns in a P!~g for 
hockey. Efforts wzll be made to cut back on the
permits one sport with no scholarships to remain.at
Oh God, in which he played the utle role. What 
substantial" subsidy to ice hockey by a gradual
a lower level of competition while the scholarship·
'about the microwave oven?" he continued. 
reduction in the number ofgrants-in-aid and by an
rich sports climb to Division I. On the other hand, 
If only George could read the statement relea~ed 
reduce The team
Notre Dame's mens' swimming and soccer teams, attempt to travel costs. w~'/1rhis wet>kt·nd rega_rding Notre _Dam~'s lon_g-awaued 
continue [in] the WCHA next season whzle
which have no scholarships, must compete at the
wmpliance wtth Tttle IX. A mim-mtracle mdeed ­
explon·ng future options, including membership in a 
Division I level because the football and men's
a statement from the Golden Dome which actually 
geographically more compact league. . .
basketball teams do. Three cheers for the AlA W! ! ! 
says something, although the details aren't quite Petty and pomtless are perhaps the best adJectives 
Secondly, which division a women's team
t!ear. Hut then, who expected all the answers, for this section. It appears that the Irish wtll skate 
competes in is determined by the numbe~ f!f
anywav? 
with 18 ,;cholarship players next season while the
scholarships it offers. The AlA W has placed a hmtt 
rest of the WCHA goes with 20. Some schools
· Now, the play-by-play: of 12 scholarships on basketball (three less than the might be able to live with this quite easily. ForImtially, [new] athletic grants-in-azd wzll be NCAA's 15)~ A Division II school can offer not Notre Dame, it may be the straw that breaks the
concentrated in women's basketball. Notre Dame's more than )0 percent of that maximum. The very 
~e~ camel's back.
current NCAA Division III women's basketball team first scholarship dollar granted to a women'~ 
Just think about the handicaps the Notre Dame 
is expected to phase into Division I competition in automatically elivates it from Division III to Dtv1s10n 
team is and will be faced with. First, academic
three to four years. Richard [Dz$ger j Phelps ... wzll II. 
requirements close the door on the very finestbe given the ... responsibzlity oj overall supertJJ.sion With that in mind, it looks like Digger will hockey players (for the most part). There's nothing
ofthe women's program. coordmate initial recruiting efforts and scholarsh.ip 
that can be done about this. To the contrary, Lefty 
Now, the color commentary: allocations. Whether any of the current players wtll Smith is quite proud, as Notre Dame should be,First, let's set the record straight, folks. Notre receive any full or partial grants-in-aid ts unk~own that every Irish hockey player has graduated, aDame has no NCAA Division III women's basketball at present. As far as recruiting is concerned, Dt~ger claim no other school in Division I can make.
team. The Irish women are in the AIAW's Division starts at a disadvantage since the AlAW's national Second, Notre Dame's geographical locationIII (Association of Intercollegiate Athletics for letter of intent signing date was March 3 {the first does not contibute to an excess of walk-on talent.
Women). a completely separate governing body. Monday in March, according to the bylaws). The A few pertinent facts -Just because the vast majority of the quality players have already 
[continued on page 7]

women's basketball team is advancing to Division I, been gobbled up by the Old 'Dominions, the 

o 0, I' 0 I I o I I •' \0 0 • >I 






