~-----~­
-~~-------------------------------------------..... 
News in review -Page 7
' ' ' 

-VOL. XIV, NO. 133 an independrot student newspapn serving DOltt ~ and saint mary's THURSDAY, MAY n, 1980 
by Tom Jackman News Editor 

The 41-member UniYersity, Board of Trustees convened on campus May 2 for their bi­annual, privately held meeting, listening to reports from its various committees and oth"r University officials, discussing several important campus is­sues and approving an undis­closed tuition/ room and board increase for next vear. 
The Board also elected a new meml:.er to its ranks, former Alumni Association president Anthony F. Early. Early, a 1947 graduate, is the head of a New York City textile converting firm and has served the last two years as an ex-ufficio member of the board gs president and then honorary president of the Alumni Association. 
The only other firm action the Board took was to approve a 1980-81 fiscal year budget of $92,148,000, which is based on the "adjustments" in tui-
Board ofTrustees holds n1eeting 
Notre Dame holds commencement. • • 
tion, room and board fees. Although the Board did not release specific figures-they will be disclosed the Univer­sity President Fr. Theodore Hesburgh's annual letter to parents of undergraduates­Information Services Director Richard Conklin earlier re­leased figures which would bring next year's total bill to $6490. Conklin said that these numbers were tentative, and were calculated for iuclu­sion in the annual report to the College Scholarship Ser­vice. This figure is up $860 from this year's $5,630. 
Among the many committee reports, several issues of spe­cial interest arose. Thomas Carney, chairman of the Aca­demic and Faculty Affairs Committee, reported that in his meeting the previous day with faculty representatives, dis­cussion focused on a possible appeals procedure for faculty tenure and promotion deci­sions, faculty retirement bene­fits and fringe benefits for cur-
by John M. McGrath News Editor 

The largest undergraduate class in Notre Dame history will graduate Sunday at 2 p.m. as part of the University's 135th commencement exercises at the ACC. 
A total of 1, 701 members of the Class of 1980 will be conferred bachelor's degrees. In addition, 178 master degrees, 70 MBA's, 159 law degrees, and 73 doctrorates will be aw-.rded. 
a capacity crowd is expected for the exercises which will feature an address by commencement speaker Benjamin Civiletti, U.S. attorney general. 
Also present for the: event will be the recipients of honorary degrees. Among those to be awarded doctor of law degrees are Paul Vdcker, chairman of the Federal Reserve Bank; Thomas R. Donahue, secretary-treasurer of the AFL-CIO; Hanna Gray, president of the University of Chicago; and Fr. Timothy S. Healy, president of Georgetown University. 
Speaker of the U.S. House of Reprentatives, Thomas P. "Tip" O'Neill, will also be honored at the exercises as the 1980 rec.'pent of Notre Dame's Laetare Medal, the oldest honor accorded American Catholics. 
The Baccalaureate Mass for the Class of 1980 will be celebrated Saturday at 5 ~.m. at the ACC. Numerous priests, incl:Jding relatives and fnends of graduating students, have been invited to concelebrate the Mass. 
Today's activities for the gradutating seniors include a ser.wr picnic to be held early this afternoon at Green Field. 
An earlier picnic, held Tuesday afternoon at Saint Mary's, was attended by Senior Fellow Ray Meyer, head basketball coach for the DePaul University Blue Demons sqcad. 
According to Karen Jones, a spokesperson for the Center for Continuing Education, which is helping to coordinate ~nduarion ac,ivities, 2700 parents and relauves of graduat­mg seniors will be housed in campus dormitories over the weekend. 
Area hotels and motels are also expect to be filled with hu11dreds of ftiends and relatives visiting South Bend to attr:nd rhe graduation cerer wnies. 
The breakdown on the number of graduates from respective colleges at Notre· Dame .reveals some interesting facrs, including the ~lose secon_d _placr:; finish registered by the College of Busmess Admmistratton. The number of seniors graduating from each of the four University colleges lists as follows: Colle~e of Arts and Letters, 558; College of Business Administration, 553; College of Engneering, 330; College of Science, 266. 
L----=------------------------, security, paramedics, and the 
rent faculty. After tl)is, Pro­vost Timothy O'Meara conduc­ted a discussion on the mer­its of appealing negative ~n­ure and promotion decisions. 
John Schneider, chairman of the Student Affairs Committee, presented the report of his meeting with student leaders Bill Roche, Paul Riehle, Don Murday, Mark Kelley and others. Although the students requested a new social center to improve the strained social life on campus, the Committee recommended to the Board that "better and more ima­ginative use be made of the campus facilities we have." 
In the business areas, Invest­ment Committee Chairman John Ryan reported that the University's endowment new totals $151,368,000. Ernestine Radin, national co-chairman of the fund-raising Campaign for Notre Dame, noted that gifts and pledges now total $163,020,971, better than $30 million above the $130 million goal which the Campaign had originally set. Finally, Univer­sity Vice President for Busi­ness Affairs Thomas Mason presented a report which showed that Notre Dame, with 1684 non-faculty personnel, is now the second largest em­ployer in the South Bend area. 
Also speaking in front of the 
[continued on page 6] 



Sl'rf.C freshman falls down elevator 
b_y Mar,::ie Brassil  the third and fourth floors.  She  to the fourth floor.  Then they  
SMC Executive Editor  was with 'er roommate, Karin  · ran  down the stairs and  came  
Fraboni,  and  another  friend,  to get me.''  
Claire Devereux,  a  freshman  Mary Laue.  Silvia had no explanation as to  
from River Forest, Ill., is listed  According to the McCandless  how the elevator became stuck  
in  serious  condition  at  Saint  Hall director, Mary Jane Silvia,  but she added, "The elevator  
Joseph's Hospital as the result  "Claire got nervous and tried to  company  was  not  negligent.  
of a fall down the elevator shaft  get out.  She lo~ered  herself  The  elevator  was  properly  
in McCandless Hall last Friday. Devereux was riding the ele­vator to the fourth floor at 3:15  d~wn to the third floor but missed and fell. After she fell, Fraboni and Lauer got the  ·  maintained." She fell nearly  three  . flights  
a.m.  wh.en it stopped between  • elevator to work and took it up  to the shaft  bottom of the elevator and was rescued by  

• • . andatSMC 
· by Mary Leavitt SMC News Editor 
Saint Mary's College will award 455 baccalaureate de­grees at the 133rd annual com­mencement exercises to be held on May 17 at 10:30 a.m. in the outdoor court of LeMans Hall. 
Lynn D. Salvage, president of Katherine Gibbs School, will be the commencement spea­er. She will receive an ho­norary doctor of law degree at the ceremony. 
Salvage was appointed presi­dent ofKatherine Gibbs School last January. Prior to that, she was president and chief executive officer of the First Women's Bank of New York and one of the youngest bank president's in the United States. In addition, Salvage serves as director of both the Financial Advisory Board of Columbia University's Gradu­ate School of Business and the National Women's Hall o Fame. 

Honorary d..:grees will also be presented to Dr. Otis R. Bo­wen, _governor of Indiana, and Emma Endres-Kountz, inter­nationally known fianist. Mar­go Hoff, a wel known ar­tist, will receive the Presi­dent's Medal. 
The Baccalaureate Mass will be hdd tomorrow at 4:oop.m. in the LeMans Hall outdoor court. The Most Reveren 
William E. McManus, bishop of Fort Wayne-South Bend 
Diocese, will be the celebrant. , A graduation party will the be held from 9 p.m. to 12 a.m. in Angela Athletic Facility. 
fire department rescue team . ''There was no trouble getting her out. She was moaning but not talking or screaming. She was not unconscious, pro­bably just conscious of her pain," said Silvia. 
Devereux was admitted into the constant care section of St. Joseph's with a fractured skull, clavical, jaw, and knee. She was put under heavy me­dication because of the pain. 
Devereux was moved to pedia­trics on Monday and is now in a private room. She was supposed to undergo an oper­ation yesterday to set some of the bones, but the doctors decided to wait longer until she is stronger, according to Silvia. 
"They're hoping there is no brain damage. Her vital signs are all good so she's in stable condition. She has her good days and bad, but she's talking when she has visitors,'' Silvia said. She was unsure how long Devereux would need to 
stay hospitalized. 

News in brief 
Thursday ,May 15, 1980-page 2 
Reagan, Cartersnare votes 


Construction continues at ND 
by john McGrath · four floors in height and are across the street from the News Editor designed to house 250 students present ofice, will be situated each. at the corner of Old Juniper Although academic activity Director of Housing Fr. Mi­Road and Douglas Road, and 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Ronald Reagan seems ready to 

from convention delegates 

has for the most part ground chael Heppen explained that will feature a drive-in banking reach his magic number-the 998 delegates needed to 
to a slow pace on campus· no final decision has yet been capacity for two cars. clinch to Republican Party presidential nomination-by the 
for the summer, at least five made as to whether to house final days of \1ay. President Carter is a bit far.-her 
multi-million dollar construc­men or women in the new halls. WNDU also is about to em­away. from clinching the Democratic Party presidential 
tion projects will continue in "We're looking at aU the op­bark on a major expansion nom,ination. . The ~resident's delegate t~tal probably 
high gear or get underway tions,'' Heppen ackmowledged, program. WNDU's two radio won t top h1s mag1c number-1,666-untd the finaL 
at Notre Dame during the next "but we haven't made any de­stations and Channel 16 Tele­big primary day on June 3. To stop Rea~an short of ~ 
three months. cisions yet." vision are currently housed in majority of the 1,994 Republican convention delegates 
The two most ambitious pro­The $9 million Stepan Che­a structure near the Memorial Ge<:Jrge Bush will have to win virtually all the re: 
jects, the two new dormitories mical Building, located directly Library, but the building will ma1010g GOP delegates. SimJiarly, Carter's remaining 
and the Stepan Chemical Buil­behind Nieuwland Science Hall, be replaced by a new, larger opponent, Sen. Edward M. Kennedy, must snare four 
ding, are currently the most is only 15 percent complete, facility across campus at the out .of five of t~e . remaining_ ~elegates to stop the 
visible of the construction sites, but moving ahead swiftly. intersection of Dorr Road and president from w10n10g a maJonty of the convention 
but in the near furure, work ''This (chemical buildin~) has u.s. 31. vores. In both parties, of course, winning a majority 
will be completed at the Snite been a very good proJect,'' Groundbreaking for the 30,000 of the convention delegates does not guarantee the 
Museum of Art, and get under­Dedrick said. "We're already square foot strucrure is planned nomination. 
way at four campus residence three weeks ahead of schedule for mid-summer, and .construc­halls, and at the sites of new -Christman (of Christman tion is expected to take 12 structures for WNDU and the Construction Co., the main con­months.
U.S. Steel closesfactories 
Notre Dame Credit Union. tractor) has done a good job." ''This new facility will giveWork is approximately 30 Completion of the 106,000 us about twice as mJi.ch space percent complete on the con· square foot complex is expec­as we have now, and it will struction of the "inboard" ted sometime in 1982. The have a provision for the Notre

as demand continues to drop 
structure of the $7 million twin new structure will accomodate Dame telecommunications pro­dorm project adjacent to the classrooms and laboratories grams," explained Bazil O'Ha­PITTSBURGH (AP) -U.S. Steel Corp. confirmed yes­
Memorial Library, Donald Ded now located in the old Chem­gen, vice president and ~ene­terday it will dose three more blast furnac("s-including 
rick, director of the Physical ical Engineering Building. ral manager of WNDU. 'The one 10 Gary, Incl.-this weekend as demand for steel 
Plant, reported. There is some talk on campus big advantage of this new lo­products continues to drop. A spokesman at U.S. Steel's 
Workmen are now installing that the Old CHEG building cation is that it will give us headquarters here said furnaces scheduled for closing 
the third floor decking on the might become the new home good access to both the com­later this week aie in Gary, Ind., Fairfield, Ala., and 
inboard building-the structure for the Notre Dame art pro­munity and the Nocre Dame the Duquesne works in Pittsburgh. U.S. Steel did not say 
located closest to the North grams now located in the old campus.'' how many workers would be affected by the closings 
Dining Hall. Dedrick said fieldhouse. The present WNDU structure this weekend. The spokesman .said the length of the 
brickwork on that building will Construction is slated to is currently being discussed as shutdowns ''will depend on the order book.'' The drop 
begin in June. begin soon on the Notre Dame a possible site for a planned in the steel demand has been steep since the end of 
Meanwhile, the "outboard" Credit Union's new $1 million Social Concerns Center, or as a March. U.S. Steel Chairman David Roderick said re­
twin is only 15 percent finished building. The 18,000 square 
[continued on page 4]

in Dedrick's estimation. Wor­foot facility, to be locatedcently his company saw a 40 percent decline in its 
orders. Other companies have experienced similar falloffs. 
Auto sales hit recordlow as recession progresses 
DETROIT (AP) -Sales by U.S. automakers in early May sank to the lowest point in 22 years, company reports indicated yesterday, as the troubled auto in­dustry continued its year-long decline. The five producers delivered 142,652 cars in the first 10 days of the month, down 42 percent from 245,124 a year ago. The per­formance was worse than that of early-May 1975, during the recession of the mid-1970's, when the auto industry was in a slump similar to its current decline. In Washington, meanwhile, President Carter and auto industry leaders met for over two hours yesterday to fashion· an informal arrangement to consult on industry problems. Carter offered no specific help to the management and labor representatives. But arrangements were made for an intensive exchange of ideas with the administration, leading to another White House session in about six weeks. 
Victim requ(3.$ts dismissal ofhusb~nd-wife rape suit 
C~A ~FORpSVILLE, It:td (f\,P) -The first husband-wife rape 
suit m lnd1ana was d1smJssed from Montgomery Circuit <:;ourt yesterday at the request of the alleged rape vic­u~. Montgomery County Deputy Prosecutor Kurt Homan sa1d Yvonne Ray, 20, of Rockville, recondled with her ex­husband, Jeffrey Ray, 23, and withdrew her rape suit. Ray, who was charged 10 connection with an assault on his ex-wife in February 1979, was scheduled to be arraigned on rape charge today. Indiana's 1976 law allowing a husband to be charge with his wife's rape was found constitutional at a May 5 court hearing. 
I'


Weather 
M_osdy sunny and continued cool with highs in the m~d 60s. Increasing cloudiness at night. Lows in the m~d 40s. Cloudy tomorro~ wi~h a slight chance of ram by late afternoon. H1ghs 10 the mid 60s. The Indiana extended outlook for Sarurday through Monday calls for mild conditions with rain possible both Sarur­kers are finishing foundation work, and actual strucrural 










• RESUMES •
work is set to begin soon. The-inboard building is expec­
Job Objective: Making YOUR resume stand out In a ted to be ready for occupancy 
crowd. in January of next year while 
Capabilities: 24 different styles of type. 12 type sizes,
the outboard twin will be ready 
6 to 36 point. 8 type styles on line at one by June 1981. 
time. Word spacing, either automatic or Both L-shaped dorms are to be 
operator controlled. 
Pricing: One page· $17.00, Two pages· $30.00. 
References: Available by calling 288-9695. Repro Graphics 
306 So. Notre Dame Avenue • 1 South Bend, IN 46617
Night Editor: Ann Mon­aghan Asst. Night Editor: Mary Leavitt 
~~~HEUC!LAN JN&m.Jmlllm£ nfm£C!L){N001j00C5
Copy Editor: Lynne Daley a totaHy unaccredited university dedicrtted toLayout Staff: Patty Sheehan sale of facetious Doctorate degrees News Editors: Pam Degnan, Authentic-looking

Tom jackman, john Mc­Grath 
Fine Parchment Great as Gifts or Novelties

Editorial Layout: Mike Onu­frak Features Layout: Molly 
Send name, address, and "major of recipient
Woulfe and Ken 

along wit~ $25.00 plus $2.50 for postageSports Layout: Beth huff and handling to: The American Institute of 
man 

Technology, 198 Monterrey Drive, Clarmont 
Typists: Ann Monaghan, 

Ca. 91711 ' 
Mary Leavitt, Kim Convey, Ten· Rowland EMT: Beth J:luffman 
Ad Design: Mike Holsinger, john McGrath ' Photographer: john Macor Guest Appearances: Rose, Greg, Phil "Immortal" Cackley, Mikey Ruhe, Alicia Puente, Mark ('nuff said) Rust, Margie Brassil, Kelly 



ATIMETO DECIDE 
Sullivan, Left "Ayatollah" 

These few weeks are when Notre Dame students Mullaney, Sal, Neil, Ryan, 
are making decisions. 
Mark Perry A few samf?les: . . . 

1. What kmd of summer JOb wdl I do? 

2. What will be my major? 
3. Whom will I room with next year~
Th1 Oburv1r (USPS 598 920) Is 

4. What will I do after graduation? 
published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation 

For ~hos~ considering the priesthood, the 
periods. Th1 Oburver Is published 
question 1s:
by the students of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions 

Is this the time when I should consider may be purchased for $20 per year 
whether I want to become a priest?
($10 per semester) by writing Till Oba1rv1r, P.O. Box 0, Notre 

If this is the decision you must make, then for a 
Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class 

personal, confidential Fr. Andre Leveille, CSC 
postage paid, Notre Dame, Indiana 

interview contact: Holy Cross Vocation Director 
46556. Tht Obtlmr Is a member of the 

Box 541 
Associated Press. All reproduction 

Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 
. rights are reserved. 

•~· ···-· ·~~~Y-~--...·~T~one~l,~6485 

Sunday. Highs mostly in the 70s. Lows in 
~~~ .... · 

~------­

The Observer 



Tenure issue appears yearly 

by Mark Rust Managing Editor 
Tenure has continued on this campus as "a tssue among both faculty~ students, and it is expected to rise to the surface once again next year. This is not a new development: a 1971 Student Government questionair was already asking "Is tenure a dead issue?" 
One reason that the tenure issue appears and re-appears with no discernatable progress of agreement lies in the tenure process itself. The process is marked by extreme secrecy, and professors who are denied tenure frequently do not even know the reason for the denial. This secrecy has led mar.y faculty members over the last eight years to level charges against the University of every­thing from politicking to sexual 
discriminatton  in  tenure  ap­ 
pointments,  
The  University  rarely  de­ 

fends itself against such char­ges in public. A recent faculty senate proposal to establish an appeals procedure for tenure denial was intended to bring more communication and in­formation to the process. The proposal was flatly rejected by the University. 
The most recent focus of the tenure issue will however, find the University defending itself in public. Notre Dame's hiring and employment practices over the last ei~ht-years will be examined 10 coun late in November when the University defends itself in a sex discrim­ination suit. 
Approximatley 62 faculty wo­men will participate in a class action sutt which charges the University with sexual discrim­ination in every phase of their employment practices, from sa­laries to appointments for ten­ure. 
Two original suits, one re­presenting non-tenure wo­men's complains and one re­presenting tenure women, were combined into one class action suits in late February by bers. They further charged that 
U.S. Distric Court Judge Allan the information Arimond had Sharp. The two suits were give out at those meetings was 
combined when four of the six ''misleading.'' 
tenure women on the faculty The University lost their bid opted out of the Ford suit, for a "gag" rule, and the case which claimed discrimination proceeded to the opt-out dead­agamst tenure women. line during which faculty mem­
The case saw an interesting bers, all ofwhom were eligible,twist earlier this year when the could decide where to panici­counsel for the plaintiffs, Davis pate. Of the approximately 130 Miner and Barnhill of Chicago, non-tenure women eligible, 62 was taken to court by the opted out, leaving 68 women University in order to restrain in the suit. Two other women, fhem from disseminating infor­both tenured, were added to mation about the suit to poten­the suit when the two were tial class action members. A merged.representative of the Chicago The Frese suit, named after firm, Bridgit Arimond, held Delores Frese, the principle in meetings with small groups of the case and former Notre facultv members late in the Dame professor of English, is first semester to explain the now in the "discovery stage,"legal ramifications of the suit · during which both sides take and answer the questions of depositions and attempt to women who were potentially discover evidence which will involved. The University held aid in their November coun that Arimond' s contact with battle. the faculty members consti­The trial will be held in tuted solicitation of clients South Bend Federal District from the eligible class mem-Court. 
Carterto screen:authorities in CubaifCastro acccepts 
WASHINGTON (AP)-In a move that could effectively stop the flow of Cuban refu­gees to the United States, President Carter says that henceforth only those screened in advance by U.S. authorities in Cuba will be accepted. 
If Cuban President Fidel Cas­tro accepts those terms, Carter said yesterday, the United States will send boats and planes to ferry the refugees safely out ofthe island country. 
No longer, (:arter declared, will the United States allow itself to be used as a ''dumping ground" for Cuban criminals and mental patients. 
A few hours after the presi­dent appeared before reporters at the White House to reveal 
, the new policy, a jetliner chartered by the U.S. govern­ment removed several officials and their dependents from the 
U.S. Interests Section in Ha­vana, at least temporarily. 
It was not clear how many . were left behind, although the State Department, which ac­cused Cuba of a ''virulent and continuing anti-American cam­paign,'' said some essential employees would remain in Havana. 
With no formal diplomatic relations between the two countries, the Interests Section is what passes for a U.S. Embassy in Cuba. 
There was no immediate indi­cation what, if any, direct connection the decision to re­move most U.S. diplomatic personnel from Havana had with Carter's new policy on accepting refugees. 


PINOCCHIO'S 
Pizza Parlor 
Georgetown Shopping Plaza 


GRADUATION SPECIALS!!! 

I' ------------~------------·S1 OFF I S20FF : 
Good thru May 18, 1980 Onecoupon per pizza 
I 

Catholic Alumni Clubs 
SUNDAYONtY All the spaghetti, salad bar & garlic bread you can eat_forjust 





·$2.95 

·' Thursday,May 15, 1980-page 3 
A mass was celebrated today in honor of those Holy cross priests who are celebrating their 25th an­niversary. [photo by john Macor] 


the·family inn 
CONGRATULATIONS/II 
Barnaby's wishes all the best to the ND/SMC Class of J980. 
......,.. Comeby 
.. ~# 

I"'A4!!r....,,~~ (7 'el and see us 
'\ro!M!"''IIL.l>.IJI 

before you leave. . · 7 J3 E. Jefferson So. Bend 3724Grape Road Mishawaka 

'-----------------------------------------------------­


RESTAURANT 
CLOSED SUNDAY 
Amish Style Cooking At Its Best 
You won't want to leave town without eating at this unique restuarant
OPEN DAILY 3to 9p.m. 
~--Amish food in a castle... 
!VISIT OUR GIFT SHOP IN THE LOBBY 
Melvin&. Ruth Ann Schrpek-Your Hoste 
-~ 202 E Jefferson "Blvd ·\Mishawak~ 
.~ ......,. . .. -;. •· ..-.;~; .• ' .'!! « :::--;·.;. j 
i. ; 
·..................~ 

----------~--­


Thursday,May 15, 1980-page 4
The Observer 


by The Associated Press 
Iranian President Abolhassan Bani-Sadr claimed yesterday that 96 armed American a­r.ents, led by Iranian sym­pathizers, landed in Iran re­cently on a two-week sabotage and assassination mission. 
He spoke in a Tehran Radio interview a short time after the Iranian prosecutor-general's of­fice reported the arrest and imprisonment of two American men for their alleged part in last month's failed hostage­rescue effort. 
1 The State Department said it had no information about the
Holy Cross students hold a typical (outlawed] ND 

two men and no comment on
kegger! [photo by Ron Szot] 

the claims made by Bani-Sadr. The Defense Department said the only forces the United
RIVER CITY RECORDS announces.... 

States had in the area were the approximately two dozen ships It has stationed near Iran, Among the ships are aircraft


Sl.OO OFFill 

carriers from which helicopters can fly. 
Bani-Sadr claimed "two heli­copters," presumably U.S. mi­litary aircraft, landed in the Bakhityaris mountains in cen­
on all tecotd ctates 

Gteat fot packlngll 

tral Iran. He said the heli­copters were carrying arms, that the American agents were accompanied by 19 Iranians, all longtime residents of the Uni­ted States, and that arms were already being supplied to re­bels in northwestern Iran. 
It was the first time Iran has claimed new infiltration by American agents since the a­bortive rescue mission April 
25. However, Iran has con­sistently maintained that Amer­ica.n agent allegedly sent to Iran for the rescue mission had remained in the coun­try. 
Published rel?.orts last month quoted U.S. mditary officials as saying American undercover 
2-5trap: tan leather $37.00 
Scholl Shapes 
• 
Raised arch 

• 
Toe gnp bar 

• 
Cupped heel 




234-747l 


Iranian president Bani -Sadr claims 


sabotage atte~pts by Americans 
SMC Honors Convention presents special awards 
agents, including special forces noopers, had shpped into Iran before the rescue mission and had left Iran afterwards. 
However, the London Daily Telegraph said more than 100 infiltrators, including Farsi­speaking CIA agents and spe­Cial forces troops, remained in hiding in Iran. The Telegraph re~;>ort said the infiltrators were usmg Turkish, Egyptian, or Pakistani passports. 
The Chicago Sun-Times yes­terday quoted Washington sources as saying the rescue plan, in which eight American commandos were killed, was much larger than has been made public. The sources, reported to have acquired a co­py of the mission plan, were quoted as saying about 400 undercover agents-most of them Iranians-were ready to create havoc in conjunction with the rescue attempt. 
The _P,rosecutor-general' s of­fice sa1d the two arrested Amer­icans, not identified, were be­ing held in Evin Prison in Tehran, but would not say what charges had been lodged against them or provide other details about them or their arrests. 
The arrests were announced less than a day after a spokesman for Iran's nominallY. ruling Revolutionary Council told reporters that Americans in Iran ''will be kept under surveillance until. .. it has been proved that they do not in­tend to conspire against Iran.'' 
There are an estimated 200 Americans in Iran. One, Cyn­thia Dwyer, an American free­lance journalist from Buffalo, N.Y., was arrested 10 days ago and also is being held at Evin Prison. Revolutionary Guards say they can prove she is a CIA spy. 
by Patty Sheehan 

t.waJ ds were presented to students and faculty members of Saint Mary's College at the annual Honors Convocation held on Monday, May 6 in O'Laughlin Auditorium. 
Special awards presented to faculty members during the convocation were the Maria Pieta Award and the Spes Unica Award. This year the Maria Pieta Award was pre­sented to Mark Bambenek, professor in the department of chemistry. Mary Martucci, chairman of the nursing de­partment, received the Spes Unica Award for excellence in teaching and service to the College. 
John M. Duggan, president of Saint Mary's College. pre­sented the Saint Catherine Medal to junior PatnCia tlurke of Louisville, Kentucky. The Saint Catherine Medal is the undergraduate: achievement award sponsored by Kappa Gamma Pi, a National Catho­lic Honor Souety for Women. Twenty-~:ight department a­wards were also presented at tht> Convocation to students wi-Jose work in a particular ~rea of study is outstanding. The Mother Rose Elizabeth A­ward in Biology was presented to Mary Eileen Revord and Anne Connolly. Ginger Ma­renchin received the George andJuanda Bick Nature Award and Rosemarie Lopez received the Mother Rose Elizabeth 
Award in Chemistry. The Sister M. Rosaleen Dunleavy Allied Medical Award was pre­sented to Colleen Donlan and Carrie Fortman. 
The department of Business Administration & Economics Academic Achievement A ward was given to Susan Schneider. Susan Szymanski received the Department of Business Ad­ministration & Economics Fa­culty Award. 
Francis McGinn received the Mary A. McDermott Award for Excellence in Teaching, and Loraine Schreck received the Award for Excellence in Teaching in secondary schools. An English Prize was given to Susan McGury. 
A High Scholastic Award in government was presented to Mary Patricia Field. The High Achievement Award in govern­ment was given to Mary Eliz­abeth Boote and Martha Es­trada. Kathy Bertasso and Lyon Ovando received the Out­standing Senior History A­ward. Ms. Ovando also re­ceived the Blecha History A­ward. 
Kim Kearney received the St. Thomas More Award in Hu­manistic Studies. Marian Wit­tenberg received the professor Milko Jeglic award for A­chievement in Mathematics. Spanish Awards were presen­ted to Patricia Cody and Vir­giniaJung. 
. . . Renovations 
ioswllation of two stairwdls in
[continued from pag,e 2] 

Badin Hall. Those plans have new home for the Audio:Visua! caused c.onsiderable controver­·Department, among other uses. sy re ~ently because they will necessitate the eviction of To­
The ,.;ummer will also mark 
ny's Shoe Shop, a privately

the beginnin~ of a University 
operated business located in

dorm rehabilitation effort. 
the southeast corner of the buil­

Three r.:onstruction companies 
ding.

have ~een contracted to 8er­workers put­
Meanwhile, are

form approximately $1 mi lion 
ting final touches on the $3

worth of renovations to St. 
million Snite Museum of Art,

Edward's, Badin, Sorin, and 
loclJ.tcd adjacent to O'Shaugh­
Walsh Halls. 
nessy · Hall. 

''This is the first stag.: in "It's just about finished," 
a program to bring all the old Dedrick noted. "We're just 
residence nails up to modern punching in a few systems 
standards,·' Dedrick explained. and doing some finishin~ work 
Probably tltc most ambitious in the basement and 10 the 
of the projects is the planned main ~allery.'' 


The Observer Thursday ,May 15, 1980-page 5 



Protesting students join forces against hated Korean government 


SEOUL, South Korea (.\.P) ­
Demonstrating students poured into downtown Seoul yesterday paralyzing traffic and clashing with police in anti-government protests. Po­lice vehicles were burned and wrecked in one of the five provincial cities where demon­strations also took place. 
The government placed troops and armored personnel carriers around the capitol building as the number of demonstrators estimated in Seoul alone m­creased to 30,000. It was not known how many demon­strators were involved outside Seoul. 
Riot police, armed with clubs and tear gas, were out­numbered here, but troops 
armed with rifles did not join police in fighting the demon­strators. At least 200 stu­dents were arrested. 
The volume and size of the emonstrations reminded some observers of the uprisings that toppled the government of President Syngman Rhee in 
1960. The slogan-chanting students took to the rain-swept streets of Seoul demanding the lift­ing of martial law and the resignation of new military strongman Lt. Gen. Chun Doo­hwan. The most violent demonstra­tion of the day· erupted in Taegu, Korea's third largest city 140 miles south of Seoul. About 500 students 

In  a  few  years,  the  graduating  seniors  will  return  
to  the campus  as  alumni and this  view  of the  Dome  
will fill thei1· heads and hearts with memories.  Live_s  

will have changed and the Notre Dame world will seem rather remote, but the Dome wz/1 inspire the same feeling in each alumnus that it wrought the first time-one ofwonder. [photo by john Macor] 
254 DIXIEWA Y NORTH .ROSELAND 
PABST $599 
24-120ZCANS 

CHECK OUR DAILY
ROGEl 


HAMPAGN 


brand 
Bud 


·Busch Michelob






WHIT1f!J9 
Miller PINK 750 ml 
Miller Ute Stroh's 
1725 NORTH IRONWOOD SOUTH BEND 



BUD $699 
24-12OZCANS 
-
1


LOW PRICES TOO. 
6pack 12pack
2.09 3.99 
2.09 3.99 

2.29 4.49 2·09 3.99
2.09 399 

2.09 3:99 
rGAllO 



ALL THESE ONLY
TABLE 



$499

WINES 
CALVERT'S GIN (1 at)CANADIAN MIST(750 ml) 
.$499 

\SEAGRAM'S (750 ml)
"-4 liter. ~ 
MacKINTOSH (750 ml) 

reportedly set fire to a po­lice bus and wrecked three other police veh~cles · while · destroymg two police sub-sta­
tions.  .  
In  Seoul,  students  poured  
onto  the  Chongro,  one  of  

Seoul's busiest streets, para­lyzing traffic <'n the eight­lane roadway and forcing many shops to roll down their shut­ters. 
This was the secoHd straight day of demonstrations by stu­dents after about two weeks ofanti-government campus ral­lies. 
Under mHtial law, decla~ed after President Park Chung­hec was assassinated last Oc­tober, outdoor demonstrations and political gatherings are banned. The government has said it will not lift martial law until political stability is fully restored. 
Education :Minister Kim Uk­gill renewed her appeals for self-restraint by the students, but warned that there was a 'limit to the government's pa­tience.' If ele demonstrations continued, she said, the so­veroment would have no chmce but to crack down. 
Otherwise the government did not issue any public state­ment concerning the demon­strations. 
Meanwhile, the opposition New Democratic Party submit­ted to the nati-:mal assembly a draft resolution calling on the government to lift martial law. 
Despite the presem govern­ment's pledg~ to seek demo­cratization, students and others questioned the absence of a clearcut cimetable for political reform. 


JOB OPPORTUNITY with brand energy saving productfor cars and trucks. timepeople can easily make $10perhour 
Full time much more. Call collect for an appointmentaJ 

(616)471-5161 

1621 SOUTH BEND AVE. SOUTH BEND 



STROH'S $699 
24-120ZCANS 
MARTINI & 


ROSSI ASTI 'SPUMANT 
750mi$7'1J 

BLUE NUN 

$311 
750ml~ 
·---... 
-' ... ~ --.· -__ ,. ---""--.___ ---,-:--r----···-~-........... ..,..;.....----­



----~ --~~----------­

Thursday,May 15, 1980-page 6 
The Observer 




Carter's draft bill gains momentum in anticipation of Senate approval 
by Tim Vercellotti put on the card includes one's to have a problem in this area. StaffReporter name, address, school address "We've always had a high 
(if applicable), birthdate , and success with registration,'' President Carter's proposal to social security number. No Lamb stated ~egist~r young ~en for the draft draft card is given. The fee for Lamb cited military prepar­is quietly gammg momentum registration is two dollars. edness as the major reason for on Capitol Hill. The legislation, The information will be pro­the reinstatement of registra­which would grant 13 million cessed by the Internal Revenue tion. She corrected an earlier dollars to the newly resurrected Service, and the Social Security report put out by the Selective Selective service, passed a Sen­office in Washington. Service that said that registra­ate Appropriations subcommit­Lamb disclosed that the tent­tion would shorten the time tee vote by an 8 to 4 margin on ative dates set for registration needed for mobilization by se­Tuesday, and it is now before are the last two weeks in June. ven days. Lamb set the figure at the full committee. ' ''All young men who were born two to three weeks. 
The bill, which has already in 1960 will register during the Lamb explained that without received House approval, needs week ofJune 16, with registra­advance registration, there is only to pass in the Senate tion for those born in 1961 the possibllity of problems, before Carter can sign it into taking place the following such as court cases, which law. Should this occur, accord­week,'' Lamb explained. The could delay mobilization. "We ing to Joan Lamb, a spokeswo­first initial of one's last name just don't know what could man for the Sel "':Ctive Service, will dictate the day of registra­happen," Lamb said. President Carter would then tion for each person. Lamb In the event of a national make a proclamation calling for advises that all those of regis­emeq~ency, the next step in all males of nineteen and tration age to watch for a buildmg up the armed forces twenty years of age to register schedue in their local newspa­would be the draft. The draft, at their local Post Office. pers in the middle ofJune. like registration, needs Con­
''The registration process is The penalty for failing to ~ressional approval. In a recent very simple," Lamb said. The register is a fine ot $10,000, issue of The Nation, the goals of process mvolves going to the and/or five years imprison­the draft were outlined as: the local Post Office, and filling out ment. Lamb said that the commencement of induction a card. The information to be Selective Service doesn't expect within thirty days of mobiliza­
tion, the drafting of 100,000 men in the following two months, and the addition of 550,000 men by the sixth month. 
Lamb explained that the draft process begins with the receipt of a notice of induction, which stipulates that one must report to an induction center within the next ten days for examina­t~on, classificatwn, and indue­non. 
There could be some exemp­tions for students in the event of a draft, according to Lamb. High school and college seniors would be permitted to finish their year, and college students couldfut off reporting until the end o the current: semester. 
Another possible exemption falls under the guise of bemg a 
"conscientious objector." Any­one wishing to file a claim under these circumstances would present their case to the local draft board, which would then make a ruling. If a conscientious objector status is granted, the individual is then available for noncombatant pos­itions, such as being a medic. Lamb defined the grounds for concientious objection as being "religiously, ethnically, or mor­ally unable to participate in a war." 
...Trustees 
[continued from page 1] 
trustee~ were Fr. Edmund Joyce, who discussed the U­niversity's policy on HEW's 

BE ON THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS AT 22. 
~--~-----------,
Think of a ship as a corpora­everything from nuclear pro­
Title IX athletic regulation

NAVY OPPORTUNITY Cl40
tion, and it's not farfetched at pulsion to systems analysis, 

INFORMATION CENTER and the progress of present
all. A destroyer may have oceanography to inventory P.O. Box 2000 campus constmction projects,fifteen officers, other ships management. In graduate Pelham Manor, New York 10803 and Hesburgh, who reported even fewer. Even the most school, this training would 0 Yes, I'm interested in becoming on the meeting of the Fel­
a Navy Officer. Please send me
junior officer gets to share in cost you thousands, but in lows, the Board's Executive 
more information. (0G)
running the show. the Navy, we pay you. Committee meeting in Key 
Biscayne, and also on the
You become part of the Ask your Navy representa­

Name':::-FIR::::ST:------:-::1P-:-lfA-:-:5:-fP=RI:-N:::-T)----:l'7AS:::-T 
state of the campus in general

management team when you tive about officer opportuni­AddresSi---------­
in his annual "Report of the
get your commission as an ties, or mail this coupon for 

CitY'-----State--·Zip--President.''
ensign after just 16 weeks of more information. Or call 
The trustees also handled 

Ag•--tCollege/UniversitY'---­
leadership training at Officer toll-free 800-841-8000 (in GA 

numerous minor administrative Candidate School. call toll-free 800-342-5855 ). :j:Graduation Date__ 0Grade Point--matters. 
Choose to be a Navy officer There's no obligation, and The nexl meeting of the 
L'>Major/Minor-------­
and you are responsible for you'll learn about an excellent Board of Trustees will be Oc­

people and equipment almost way to start a career in Phone Number·----,---=:-:= tober 17. 
(AREA CODE) CN5/80immediately. management. As a college The More We Know, The Mo.., We Can Help. I Many officers go on for graduate you can get manage­The Privacy Act under Title 10, Section 503, I 
-----------...
505, and 610 states that you do not have to 
further advanced schooling. ment experience in any indus­answer the personal questions we have asked. I ~gratulation,
However, the rnore we know, the moreThe Navy has literally dozens try. But you'll get it sooner­accurately we can determine your qualifies-I L~~~~a~~~Pro~m~___J
of fields for its officers-and more of it-in the Navy. 

·Graduates! ! ! I 
____,.______..

NAVYOFFICERS GET RESPONSIBILITY FAST. . I 
The Observer 



1979-80 's Ten Top News Stories 
Pope John Paul II made his first papal visit to 

Held every four years, Notre Dame's presti­the U~ited State~ in October 1979; He apP.eared gious Mock Convention boasted nearly 1000
The Observer 
in Chicago on Fnday, Oct. 5 and 10 Washmgton delefates and energetic campai~ning on behalf on Sat., Oct. 6. The Ohserver sent News Editor of al the major Republican ,Presidential candid­
Pope leaves Wuhm~~:ton )t

Mike Editor Mike Shields and Senior Staff "·-.... ~I ates. After four ballots, which lasted until 5:30 Reporter John McGrath to Washington and 
a.m., Gerald Ford gained strength for a time as Chtcago, respectively, to cover the visit. In .I I ' a compromise candidate, but ultimately George 
,.

W ashmgton the Pope celebrated Mass at St. Bu~h picked up the convention's nomination. 
~

Matthews Cathedral. In Chicago's Grant Park a Former Secretary William Simon was selected as crowd of 1.4 million gathered to hear the Pope Bush's running mate the following afternoon. In both cities he was met by cheering crowds as well as protestors. He reaffirmed his decision to 
,.,,,___.....
exclude women priests from the priesthood, and 
UfC.ft.....ltiDftth./y..JI,ltfo-.6 
spoke out against abortion and divorce. 
II.·.IIM•Pirm,./t.,.,·,,.u~ 
..."""'~!.· .. ,,..,, '""''"'"""' 
Students ~ontinued to be vict~ized by crime The Midwest Blues Festival, whose nine year 

\••::•,' 1'...(··' 
on the outskirts of campus desplt•meetings that existence brought to ND some of the big~estwere held between stuaent and administration 
l ttc ( )b~u vcr names in the genre, was termed fmanc1allyrepresentatives and South Bend police officials. 


unsuccessful by the Student Union and wasThe crime situation came to a head on April 16 terminated this past semester. SU directorsand on April 24 when two SB residents were pointed out that the lack of student interest, notmurdered in their apartments located in the 0-C Its potential _profitablitr., caused them to replaceneighborhood. On May3, two student keggers the event w1th a similar country rock festival were busted and two students were arrested in next ye~.
the ~;>rocess. The year ended with a strained relationship between students and police of­ficials. 
u.·....o:.m
,.,u ....., 
.V..lldno't

1 ,;o[,t!lot,,IJ,Itt lo•lot1~· f,:,•o~/,j,l/oll/ 
...._.._ oiJ'oUmJ I'·' t llrmrt. o~IM.·t.-. (lldtyhl41tkssl/l,/~t•ls 
A landmark corporate liability case went toIn res_Ponse to HEW's demand that all court in nearh> Winnamac, Ind., .after theuniversities comply with the regulation Title IX, 
II··••: .,..,.,., r••• 

parents of three Elkart youths pressed charges which called for an equal allotment of athletic 
The Observer .of reckless homocide against the Ford Motor Co.
funds to men and women, Fr. Edmund Joyce The case involved the 1978 collision in Elkart in 

threatened to eliminate the un-profitable, but popular, hockey program as well as other minor .'"'"'""of,..,of I which a 1975 Ford Pinto carrying three 
passengers exploded, killing all three. Ford wonsports. Student protested and athletes voiced I several crucial rulings regarding the intro­their anger as the season progressed. The duction of key evidence and was acquitted.
University's fmal statement reduced the number ~~ 

·Prosecutor Michael Cosentino later dectded toof men's scholarships, whil increasing the funds 
,_,.,. '"·' 

appeal these rulings. 
I
of the women's basektball program. 

I• .....,•.• • 
Once a popular hang-out for a large majority 
The issue of kegs on campus caused much of the ND-SMC community, the local bars were dissension among students. The rejection of the raided frequently (for the first time) in ao effort keg proposal by the Campus Life Council raised 

The Observer= 

to cut down on underage drinking in South many questions as to the effectiveness of the
\\.''"''\o,nr,thloul\ J\lll•••"·,.,, . .,;tlt;\lnorl

Bend. The largest raid occurred at The Goose's CLC. The proposal was defeated 11·6 by the Nest in which few were arrested but the tavern council and council member Fr. Richard Conyers 
]

was cited for numerous citations. The bar blasted the CLC as "an ineffective student managers charged Mayor Roger Parent with or.ganization. " harrassment and soon after, the bars were e~pty of regular under~ge patrons. 
ldiu,rial: Keenan rn'/r,r hiast:; (/,(. 
f,l,.,.,b!in<II'1Jt,.,,.,,.. .• 1. 
ll,.,l> ..tt~rJ.·"-1~ 
oo,~,__,,,,_., 
Hrt· fUIVIJ:n lonJI Rt1111t1ilfl /It» 
Two separate lawsuits were ~Iied. asam~t t~e 

"SEX at Notre Dame," a call-in talk show that 
University, bothcharging sex d1scnmmatton m 

, ·····~ ·"·· ;·..... :. r~·l"· t•• aired on WSND-AM caused the administrationtenure decisions on women here. Although one The Observer to demand changes concerning future stationhas a class aciton suit, many of the presently­\ ll.loh... lo>'\<"\ hmol, pro~ramming. Dean Roemer met with theemployed women in that suit ultimatley dropped ,,,, 
h.ll.t .........t ,,....... 
station's executive board and demanded cenainout and the two suits were combined. Hearings changes in fundemental policies includin~ thefor 'the case will probably begin next semester. 
cancellation of "Radio Free Notre Dame ' the station's most highly rated program and the banning of several WSND employees from future radio air play. 
/,,./1( ... ,.11;1(\ 

'.....,, ........, .\"fn•N.JC Yt'oll"limn l11 \\".\."il~ pru.-.:,r.nu 
4 ···;1•··~·1 .. 1:.•" /., ,,, .. " ..... . !:,!· .... '"'' .. • : ... / .:••· •o: .. ~ 
.. t; _. ............... . .. ... ..,. ~ '. ' ·, . ~ . ' .
''.
l'1 ..~ .. ~·... ' ~ t ......

}"_, r r •.• ·'~·-'~.:...t.it..rl.i'-"'~~,."•..,,..:.,..:.l.t1.:."'Ul.JtJf-·r .t..i.:':.'';'t..'.:.'t'. ~ 
d 
.-----------~---------------"--~ ---­

Thursday,May 15, 198ll-page8 





Editorials 
Senior swan song Michael Lewis Four. short ye~s ag~, the cl~ss of 1976 was graduated from htg~ ~chool 10 a btcentenmal burst of red, white and b~ue opumxsm. It was an election year, the wounds of Vt.et-oa~ and Watergate were healing, and the future looked faxrly bnght. That fall, 1600 of those graduates walked onto the Notre Dame campus as eager, scared freshmen, ready for the challen~e, but not quite so sure of what the next four years would bnng forth. There were a lot of decisions to be made. Sunda>:' w~ wiJI be graduated again. It will take a littk l~nger thts ume, and the commencement speaker will be a btt better known than t~e presi~ent of the local Lions club. For some, t~e. old opttmtsm IS back: jobs and ~raduate school are v.:attmg. For ~thers, well, were still trytng. But the future ts ~h~re, bnnging even more challenges than Notre Dame dtd m the fall of 1976. .To dwell on the pa~t here would be a bit too easy. We wdl leave some good umes and some good friends here and we are better off for knowing them. We will also t'eave some frustration and some anger here, and we are better off for those too. We have been through a lot; eight finals weeks, God knows how many papers and tests the blizzard of '78, triumphs and failures 10 and out of th~ classroom. ~ut. whatever you choose to single out, we've made it and it ts ttme to go. Notre Dame is, after a~l, a fragile thing. Granted, it takes· 60 years ~nd catastophtc ct~cum~tances to bring change he~e. But m the end, the Umverstty depends on us for its bemg. It was here for us to use. We leave it a little older a~d, if we have used this place properly, we leave it a lot WISer. . Using that wisd~m, one c!ln look back ~d see a big flaw m Notre Dame. It s called tn loco parentts and as a senior you ~ow 'it. ~ell. It is that philosophy' whereby Notre ~arne s admmtstrators can tell young adults how to live. In us quest. for valll;es, ~otre Dame's permanent residents often .Potnt to thts philosophy as a disciplined learning expenence. I . But for us transients, who called this fraction of Indiana "home" for only eigh.t months during the last four years, lessons and values .wtll rest on other things; quiet walks around the lakes, a few drinks with a friend when he needed them, and the decision that led us to choose a major a career, a lifestyle, a spouse. ' Our memories will also go to those professors, tenured and unte~ured, who had the courage to speak their minds and the ttme to help us grow intellectually. Tributes must ~s? gC? to those rectors ,who had the security to accept an mvttanon to a fresh.mal_l s champagne party, the courage to take.t~e stu~ent's stde m !!.battle for ~esponsibility with the admmtstratton, and the vtston to realtze that Notre Dame is not a mass of dogmatic rules and academic requirements but a place where people grow in every way. ' We hav~_= ha~ o~r fill.of this pla~e for four years. We have worked wtth tt, m dnves to ratse money for Cambodian ~efugees, to stop a budget cut at Logan Center in 1977, and tn ~h.e effort to attend Sunday's ceremony as full paructpants. We h3;ve also fo~ght against it, in questions of tenure, keg.re.gulatwns, and zn loco parentis generally. But that ts m the past. What counts now is not what Notre _D~me meant to us, ~r what the "true spirit" of the pl~ce_1s hke. What counts ts what we will take from these bmldmgs and these people, and how we will use the experiences of the last four years in the future. And that is a tough one. . What "Notre Dame value.s" will we take with us Sunday n~ght? Who knows? Thattsn't even the real question. The real question is what will we do with whatever we have learned. A Notre Dame professor once told me that people rarely think deeply about values. "We choose what we value every day," he said. "When we choose to read a book instead of sleep, or to help a friend with a problem instead of studying we choose a value." The future is cloudy for most of us, and more decisions are. waiting o~t there. May you always make the right chotces. And tf you can say that Notre Dame had a hand in your decisions, whatever they may be, then you have used this paid~ well. ' Michael Le1fiiS seroed a-! senior staff reporter, news editor and executtve news edztor during "his four years with the Obseroer. He is the 1980 winner of the Paul Neville ]ournalis~ awa:d, .given . annually to Notre Dame's outstandtng sentor fOurnaltst by the American Studies Department.  P.O. Box Q Yet this was only the second never without the risk of neg­Seniors,opinion : year for the women while the lecting some sources or dwind· more established tournament ling into bias. I am impressedDome lacks class was enjoying it's ninth. wom­by the evidence in the article of Dear Editor: en's bookstore has come a long your long-range plannin~ and way in a hurry and surely will the use of direct contact tn the . We were very disappointed make greater advances next 'Sevier County, Tennessee, ar­by the lack of judgment the year as will The Observer's ea of publication headquarters. editors of the 1980 Dome co~erage. · · ' I hope that the research showed in their This is Notre started by city officials into Dame section of the yearbook Our biggest criticism of Ms. editor Max Sheldon's publica­specifically, pages 332 and 333: Mills' stems from the fact that tions will continue in Pigeon Apparently, the staff felt it during her tenure as Observer Forge. Students nationally are appropriate to place some bit­editor-in-chief, she took no easy victims of the vanity ter and caustic remarks about direct action to correct what publications listing. the Administration and student she calls a wrongdoing. How body among the best pictures can a person openly criticize Sr. Franzita Kane in the yearbook. somethmg which she did noth­Professor Emeritus!English As seniors, we feel it was a ing about when she was in a Sa/nt Mary's College very poor choice for our eul­position to do so? In the ogy. After four years, we have gloomy spring of 1979, Frank some gripes about Notre Dame LaGrotta graced the sports Anderson fools also, but we have enough class pages with his daily re~orts on to express them on the editor­bookstore progress, tn very college students much the same way he did this ials page of The Observer, Dear Editor: where such opinionated com­year: Apparently, there was nothmg wrong with ignoringments belong. Perhaps the the women's tournament last I keep hearing Rep. Johncopy-writers of the Dome felt year, yet this year's first-ever f\.nderson, independent cand­strongly about their views-­tdate .. for President, speak ofmaybe they were trying to ~<?okstore coverage draws crit­ICISm. the Anderson difference.''attract attention--in any case, O~ly he, says Anderson, canthe statements were in· poor Admittedly, The Observer's bnng together Republicans and taste. coverage of women's sports at Democrats to save our country~he Dome is designed to be a Notre Dame is far from where from the bungling Jimmy Car­tnbute to the school and it's it should be. Ideally, we would ter. Well, I think the Anderson people, something to look back like to offer next-day coverage difference is a charade.?~with pride, whatever misg­of every Notre Dame sporting I think Mr. Anderson istvmgs about the University one event, but because of limitat­pulling the wool over the eyesmay have. The Dome is not an ions on space and personnel of many people, especiallyeditorial sounding block. If the this is impossible. ' college students. Mr. Ander­staff had spent less time on son says he is a conservativethis verbal crusade, maybe the The paper's coverage of ~n economic issues and adorms would have been repre­women's athletics has improv­ltberal on social issues. If Mr.sented better, senior engineers ed dramatically in recent years Anderson is a conservative onwould not have been listed as including next day coverage of economic issues, then so ispre-professional majors, and away basketball games, occas­John Kenneth Galbraith. Mr.graduates would not have their ional player features and other Anderson, bydiscussinghow tonames misspelled or mispl­blurbs and scores. Granted, ~~ve the economy, says he seesaced. these should be the norm, yet a role for the federal govern­Dominic DeFrancis are nonetheless, a great impr­ment," including measures to~>Vement over previous condit­Christopher McNulty help the floundering auto, ste­iOns. el, and housing industries.Just as the women's bookst­Anderson proposes' a" redistr­ore basketball tournament is on ibution" of tax reve~ues fromObserversports the upswing, so too is The oil-rich states to northern ind­Observer's coverage of these ustrial states which have suf­relatively young programs.defends selfon fered economic decline. And­Beth Huffman erson is also interested in a proposal to create a new gov­recent bias claim Observer Sport.; Editor ernment agency similar to . h I the Reconstruction1Finance Mtc ae Ortman Corporation of FOR's New Dear Editor: Associate Sports Editor Dell:! to prop up struggling _____________· busmesses. So Mr. AndersonThis letter is in response to favors an increased role forthe le ter which appeared in Ob 1'Server app auded gov.erfl!lle~t in t~e economy'!he O~server on May 1 regard­redtstnbutton of mcome, and tng thts newspaper's coverage for m·vestt"g ti" federal bailouts of ailing busin­of the women's bookstore bas­a On esses. Of course, all of Mr . ketball tournament. The letter Ander~on's pr?posed govern­was authored by Ms. Rosem~ry Dear Editor:. · ment mterventton would haveMills, former editor-in-chief of ~o be financed through addit­The Observer. Ional government debt whichA few points should be made Congratulations to Phillip right now is "crowding out" soin rebuttal. First, Ms. Mills Johnson and to The Observer much private debt that interest perhaps rightly criticized the editorial staff for the carefully rates are at record levels. Mr.tournament's management. documented article on The Anderson, for all of his rhetor­~.nde~standably, the competit­~ollege Register in your May 2 ic, espouses liberal economicsltlon ts not nearly as well run tssue. an economic philosophy withand organized as the men's Investigative reporting is a more proven failures than counterpart (actually, women time-consuming assignment, successes. can compete m either tourney I am confident that thewhile men are barred from the American voters will see thro­women's competition). In the The Observer welcomes ugh the Anderson charade in300 team-plus men's fiasco letters from readers. Letters die general election. Theyindividual point and rebound for publication must be typed better,. because John Andersontotals were keft from the and should include the writer's is a George McGovern frombeginning·as wei as fouls and, name, address and telephone Illinois.of course, team scores. number. Kinny McQuade  


Editorial Board and Department Managers 
Editor-in-Chief ............ Paul Mullaney SMC Nf'ws Editor ........... Mary Leavitt Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 Managing Editor .............. Mark Rust Sports Editor ............... Beth Huffman "(he qbseroer is an independent nev.:spaper ~ublished by the students of the Features Editor .............. Kate Farrell 
Editona/s Editor ........... Mike Onufrak 
Umverstty of ~'?tre Dame du ~.c and. Samt ~ary ~ C'?llese. It does not. necessarily Features Editor ............ Molly Woulfe
Senior Copy Editor ......... Lynne Daley 
reflect the poltctes of th~ a~mtntstrauon .of etthe~ m~tttuuon. The news is reponed Photo Edittor .................. John Macor
News Editor .................. Pam Degnan 
as ~c<:urately and .as ?bJecuvely as posstble: Edtt~n~ls represent the opinion of a maJor~ty of the Edttonal Board .. Com~entanes, optntons, and letters are the views News Editor ................ Tom Jackman Business_ Manager ..........Greg Hedges of thetr authors .. Column s~ace ts. 3:vadable to all members of the community, and News Editor ............... John McGrath Advertmng Manager .. Mtke Holsinger the free expresston of varymg opmtons on campus, through letters, is encouraged. SMC Executive Editor .. Margie Brassil Production Manager .... Ann Monaghan 
..------------------­

The Observer 
------------------·----~---,..----, 
,.· ..~ 





Journalism at Notre Dame : 
HiddenEducation 

at Notre Dame
The state ofthe art 
Mark Rust 

TomLong 

In the final section of this year's Dome attend a Catholic school which has institutional­For all seniors, graduation have garnered from ND is theyearbook, a portion of"The Notre Dame Story" rzed the process of protecting us from the week is a time of remembr­result of getting to know such ts devoted to a play on the word "screw" in outside world and ourselves. Thus, while we ance. The four years of Notre diverse groups ofpeople whose which the paternalistic attitude of the Notre drink beers at Corby's and read Camus, our Dame have, for many, ended perception of the world differsDame Admmistration is duly noted and framed Russian peers are training to fight in the streets all too suddenly. Memories of from my own. As a1.result Iin a network of fairly vivid images. The two ofKabul. We are largely unaware. ­classes, teachers, and friends think, my life has been madesentences in question read:"Her people include Second, we have been weaned intellectually flood the mind. That is, if the more full. While I do notthe Administration, who go to all lengths to by an advertisin8 message so powerful, tt mind is not already too imm­condone many of such person's
ersed in the inevitable alcoholscrew the students, and to make sure the pollutes our consctousness and promotes fo&gy excesses, I don't condone the which accompanies this festive students don't screw. Her people are also the thinking. In effect, when taboos are toyed wtth accepted excesses which mostscrewy students, who, had they been born five and authority mocked, we are reacting to the week. 
students at Notre Dame, incl­or six years earlier, would not lay down as they great glut ofconflicting ideas in much the same uding myself, embody. It isWhile the upper echelon ofdo while the University screws them." One way our nasal membranes react to dust; we ~his well;lth of dive.fse perspect­Notre Dame pndes itself on themay praise the parallelism of the first sentence sneeze an ethical sneeze." 
Ives whtch I feel ts one of theacademic and athletic aspectsin as loud a voice as one condemns the syntax It is obvious that these preoccupations exist, more lasting components of aof ND, I personally feel thatof the second. But the problem here is not one and we can only suggest why they exist in the Notre Dame education. 
the true value of a collegeof grammar, it is one of social taboo. campus media. The media, each component in education lies in the changes The reason for this, of course,its unique way, scratches and claws for truth.
Social taboo is also at the heart of two recent that take place in many of the is that the "real world" is asAn equal and sometimes oppo~ite force is th.at
issues of The Scholastic. In the last issue of 17-oung adults who come here. 
equally diverse as ND. Bywhich seeks truth as we know tt. The world tsthis year, the cover featured a typewriter obscene and thus we have obscenity. Our Jpon my arrival here, Notre representing that world in wrap~;>ed in a background of books. Featured Dame 'was a ''dream come mtcrocosm,Notre Dame hascrowded society demands escape and thus weprommently in the back-drop were a bottle of have alcohol and drugs. Our advertisers true." However, I really had rendered a valuable service. 
wine and two capsules which appeared to be advertise the sensual and sexual and thus we no idea of what to expect from unconventional study aids. The suggestion of As for the more conventionalhave sex. And our administrators try to instill people when I got here. As my the influence of drugs and alcohol on art and developmental phases of myin us the democratic ethos, while maintaining a 
freshman ('ear progressed,
collegiate studies, caught almost as much flack stay here, it has simply beenpaternalistic pose which stifles maturation and with all o it's self-imposedas Scholastic's previous issue, in which an extolls the virtues of conformity. 
the people I have grown toUnderstand­academic pressures, l began toarticle entitled ''The Notre Dame Gigolo'' love. Day in; and day out,ably, then, we are concerned with authority. 
develop a clearer picture ofsatirized the confused sexual mores of Notre people from throughout myWhat does all of this say about the state of what one could achieve duringDame students. Together,the taboos addressed aorm have had their effect onjournalism at Notre Dame and what, ~ndeed, is his stay at ND. Being fairlyamount to a catalogue of those most me. Though, at times, many ofthe point of this article? The two pomts mesh naive, I was quite surprised tofrequently attacked in today's society: alcohol, these people and myself have nicely: journalism is alive and well-if discover that some elements of drugs, sex, obscenity, and authority. 
somewhat cloudy and occasionally juvenile-an.d 

the student body, whose life­not been model citizens, we it is living here among us. For, what ts 
have, I feel, grown very close. 
styles did not conform to mine,The Observer, in addition to its daily We may fight and disagree,journalism if it does not address the ~reoccup­
were not as out of touch with ations of its readers? And what kmd of a
coverage of the news events occurring on and reality as I had previously but when all quiets down,around campus, also l?ays a great deal of we're the best of friends. Thisreadership is it who would not question the 
presumed. While many stud­"truthes" propounded by journalists? Do these
attention to any stones which are even closeness is the second point I ents and administrative figures marginally connected to these topics. It may, would highlight from my Notre examples of preoccupation reflect a movement are quick to condemn many oftherefore, be fair to say that these taboos Dame education. 
of some importance or do they merely suggest a 

these people because their lack of material getting the better of public
amount to a preoccupation with the student form of relaxation is a bit morepopulation generally, as represented by the I will leave here Sunday with taste? I would suggest these examples reflect a exotic than the alcoholic norm,media, and also a preoccupation with those who a heavy heart, not for themovement of something important: the waking I have learned a lot from them.
are appalled that the media broaches these institution ., but for the peopleof journalism from it's long slumber here. Wetopics to begin with. 
to whom I have grown closeI feel a great deal of theare blessed, at least for the time being, with anWhy do these preoccupations exist? It is these past four years. Mylasting "education" which IAdministration which does not attempt censure, certainly hard to establish direct cause and childhood dream of attendingand that is helpful. But before anyoneeffect, but consider the following facts about we Tom "Buddha" Long is a Notre Dame has been complet­attempts to suggest what should and should not contemporary college students. First, we government major from Chic­ed, but the benefits of it in
be pnnted in the campus l?edia, .a thoughtf\11 .Mark Rust is the managing editor of The analysis of the role of JOurnahsm on thts 
ago. He will attendlaw school terms of friendship and love Observer. He will spend the summer working campus is clearly in order. It is more than just 
at Loyola University ofChicago will remain with me forever. for The South BPnd Tnbune a question of taste. 
in the fall. 

Notre Dame: I think I'll keep her Don'tforget the parents 

Frank LaGrotta 

Diane Wtlson 
The pleasure ofcriticism takes from us that of product of our generation. It seems we were Two more days, I really How two people can be sobei1')g deeply moved by very beautiful things. bred in a period of post-revolutionary compl· can't believe it. I will be
acency when, all ofa sudden, it was not' in 'to do giving, so knowing, and so
graduated in two days. Where
La Bruyere much more than grouse and complain about understanding, is something I
has all of the time gone? 
every problem we could get our ton8ues on. can't begin to fathom, but can
I would think that by now, everything that can It seems like only yesterday
They claim that our generation has tts values only be thankful for. When I
be said about Notre Dame has been said; many that Mom and Dad were hug­
straight--or straighter than our predecessors failed my first test, when I
times over as a matter of fact. Especially at ging me good-bye and telling
who sat in or stood in any picket line they could realized life wasn't all rosy,
this time of year when, for so many of us, the me not to worry, and that I
find. when I ~;>tactically went stir
"end"is so clearly in sight. would handle college life eas­crazy dunng the long winters, Some of the commentary is appropriately But what about our values? ily. Well, four years have Mom and Dad were alwayssugared, a little is understa':l?ably bitt~r .. Much Why is it that every candidate for elected office passed since then, and they only a phone calli away. It hashowever, is confusingly cnttcal and 1~ ts th~t Jn thi~ campus fi':lds it ne~essary to litter hall were right. I've lived through always been a good feeling towhich strikes a tender chord wtth thts bulleun boards wtth promtses of more parties it all and I'm still here. 
know that they were there.
and legal kegs? 

soon-to-be graduated son of N?tre Dame. . 
As I look back at these last And their being there hasI'm wasting precious column mches repeatmg Values? years, I realize how luck I am always made the going easier. 
the well-worn complaints about the existence If our values are so straight, why doesn't to have my parents. And, while Eventhough there were disagr­of parietals, the non-existence of legal ~c;gs, someone worry about increased. OJ?portunities I am not very eloquent at eements over jobs, goals, andand the addition of both to equal the ptuful for minority students, or the Ch~tsttan. temper­expressing my emotions, I am classes (to name a few) theysocial life that supposedly shrouds this campus. 
ment of a campus where sometrmes. 1t seems grateful for and proud of the consistently served to e~forceI could answer the charges by challenging the that God is just a three letter word like GPA; love, support and confidence the love and determinationloudest complaintant to take the Blatz Taste but not nearly as important, of course. my parents have given me over which my parents have always Test and try to distinguish the draft from . the '1, for one, am very satisfied with what Notre the past four years. extended to me. 
bottled brew, but what would that accomphsh? 
Dame has given me. I, like most, never felt 

You see, the poi~t I'm try!ng ~~desperately to While I can't speak for I guess what I want to do is
stifled by parietals or dehydrat~d by the no-keg 

make, is that the 'm vogue crttttcs who seem to everyone, I am sure my clas­simply say thank you to Mom
rule which seem to cause some people so much

be so many, aren't really that many at all. smates feel the same way I do. 
grief. And I'm not ashamed to admit that I'm and Dad, just as I expect
They're just a lot louder than the rest of us. Without our parents to stand everyone in the class of80, I
glad I was here with all of you and I wouldn't 

But this is not to imply that on~ should have beside us and support us, we sure,·. longs to do. While we
trade the experience for ... no, not even an

blind faith in this institution. There may be wouldn't be getttng ready to may not always show it, we do
icy-cold 'Michelob \draft.

plenty rotten in the state of Do!Derla~~·. but the celebrate such a wonderful appreciate everything they 1dle complaining and self-servmg cnttctsm that When the family returned (rom Sunday event as our college commenc­have· done for us. We should so often finds its way to the pages of the morning mass, father cn"ticiz~d t~e _sermon, ement. all admire the sacriflces theystudent publications,. does nothmg t? correct daughter thought the choir s stngtnp was When I think about my par­have gone through for us. We the situation. In fact, tt usually makes tt worse. atrocious and mother found fault the role last know how'luckywe are to have
Wtth ents' over the few 
Sociologists tell us that these attitudes are a orgainst's playing. Then the smallest of the years, I have a feeling ofawe. strong believing people like our family piped up, 'But, it was a good show for oarents, behind us. Frank LaGrotta is a member offThe ,Observer the mo'!ey, dont you think? Wilson a former

bia~~ is
sports staff. Next year he will pursue graduate . 
Thanks Notre Dame, y~t:. were a good managing editor of The But most of all, Mom and
studies and continue to write for The Observer 
show fnr the money. Observer. / Dad, we love you. 
at Notre Dame. 
I 






Features 

Thursday,May 15, 1980-page 10 
The Irish Sweepstakes 
Mark Ferron 
''What did you\eamar Notre Dame?'' Undoubtedlythis summer you will ~ asked~hat question. Well, her~ is a test to see what you've learned about Notre Dame. Score four points on each correct answer. EARLY DAYS 
1. What was the name of the Indian tribe living near the present site of Notre Dame? 
(a) 
Illinois Indians 

(b) 
Pottawatomi Indians (c)lroquois Indians 

(d) 
Cleveland Indians 


2. 
Why is the tide "Universityof Notre Dame du Lac" a misnomer? 

3. 
Who was Stephen Theodore 'Badin? 

(a) 
the University's ftrst architect · 

(b) 
the organizer of the ftrst ND football team 

(c) 
the second priest ordained in the U.S. 

(d) 
a real-estate agent 



4. 
Everyone knows that the oldest building in continuous existence on campus is the Old College built by Father Sorin in 1843 but ~hat is the second oldest building? 

(a) 
Sorin College 

(b) 
Administration Building 

(c) 
Washington Hall 

(d) 
LaFortune 

(e) 
Geology Building 



5. 
What was the name given to the University's grade-school students from 1854 to 1929? 

(a) 
Maxims 

(b) 
Minims 

(c) 
Sorin Cadets 




(d) Little Rascals FOOTBALL FACTORY 
6. Knute Rockne's middle name is: 
(a) 
Stephen (b)Knudsen 

(c) 
Kenneth 

(d) 
Rockne had no middle name. 


7. When was Rockne appointed football coach? (a) 1922 (b) 1918 (c) 1920 
(d) He was never appointed; he just assumed the position when the preceeding coach resigned for medtcial reasons. 
8. 
What are Rockne's won-lost statistics? 

9. 
It is common knowledge that Ronald Reagan was George Gipp in the film Knute Rockne:, A/1-Amencan, but who played the part of Knute Rockne? 

(a) 
William Demerest 

(b) 
Pat O'Brien 

(c) 
Charles Laughton 

(d) 
Bing Crosby 



10. 
How are Miller, Rice, Crowley and Stuhldreher related? 

11. 
Name the last post-season Bown game Notre Dame played in before its 1970 game with Texas. FOR SMC CHICKS 

12. 
Where was St. Mary's originally located? 

(a) 
Niles, MI 

(b) 
Bertrand, MI 





(c} Goshen, IN 
(d) Detroit, MI 
13. Who owned the land west of Notre Dame before it became the site of St. Mary's? 
(a) 
Mayor Kelly of Chicago 

(b) 
Jason K. Bowen, grandfather of the present Indiana governor 

(c) 
Mr. Rush, a farmer 


(d) Mr. Lincoln CONSTANT CONSTRUCTION 
14. 
There are two buildings on campus whose exterior is made up primarily of cut stone (not brick). Name them. (Hint: they're related) 

15. 
Who was Washington Hall named after? . (a) George Washington, Martha's husband 


(b) John H. Washington, a ND student killed at the battle of Gettysburg 
(c) K.A. Washington, South Bend merchand and University benefactor 
16. This is the architectural style of the Administration Building: 
(a) 
Medieval Mish-mosh 

(b) 
American Romanesque Revival 

(c) 
Modern Gothic 

(d) 
19th Century Baroque 


17. How much does the Statue of Our Lady on the Dome weigh? (a) 700 lbs. (b) 1500 lbs. (c) 3000 lbs. (d) 2.2 tons 
NUMBERS 
18. 
How many volumes does the Memorial Library hold? (a) 500,000 (b) 970,000 (c) 1.2 million (d) 2.1 million 

19. 
What is par on the Burke Memorial Golf Course? (a) 71) (b) 72 (c) 73 

(d) 147, on a good day 

20. 
WSND's location on the dial: (a) 91.1 FM (b) 6300 AM (c) 65 AM (d) 88.9 FM 


21 ·Approximately how many alumni does Notre Dame have? (a) 50,000 (b) 62,000 (c) 100,000 
(d) Notre Dame has ~ore ~umni tha_n anyone cat,:t keep_track ~f . 
22. How big may electnc refrigerators 1n student roo~bd., (a) 3000 BTU's 
(b) 660 cubic inches . . 
(c) 
large enough for one case of beer, a Jar of~ly and a w<;~ge of cheese · 

(d) 
3.6 cubic feet REAL TRIVIA . 


23. In the dedication of the Athletic and Convocation Center dunng the week of Decernber 1-7, 1968: 
[continued on next pa e 


Phil Smidt's; Traditional Quality lives On 
Phil Smidt and Son, located at 1205 
N. Calumet Avenue, Calumet, Ind. 
Phil Smidt's is not the place to eat 
ifyou like excitement with your meal. 
Now and then, they do celebrate a 
customer's birthday by bringing a 
cake over to the tablt, complete with 
singing baritone and chorus of wait­
resses; but on the whole, an atmos­
phere of peaceful/ serenity is scrupu­
lously maintained. The philosophy of 
Phil Smidt's is to prepare and serve a 
meal you can't get at home, at a price 
you don't mind paying, in a place 
where you can enjoy it. Phil Smidt's 
backs up their principles with a 
record of 70 years service in the "Calumet area. · 
Certainly, the Frog's legs and 
Boned and Buttered Penh we tried i 
were examples of delicacies that only ' 
a well-run establishment can offer · 
regularly. The perch comes fresh 
from the lakes and Phil Smidt's 
manages to convert tons of these ftsh 
into satisfying dinners weekly. ( 
Fresh ftsn-from the Lakes have been a specialty of the house since Phil Smidt founded it in 1910. We tried the Perch and Pike and soon ftgured out why people are. still coming here after all those years. 
The menu-reader is confronted by several different perch platters, we 
style and found it a J?leasant swttcn 
from Seafood (lobster 1s offered when 
in season and shrimp is served year 
round) or steak (Sirloin and T-Bone 
Dinners !13. 50). Incidentally, prices 
for the perch· meal fluctuate with 
market prices, and have actually 
gone down slightly since last yar. 
One member of our party ordered the 
Broiled Pike ($11. 50) and claimed it 
was excellent. I can vouch for him 
since the generous portions he re­
ceived managed to make their way 
around the table and everyone got a 
taste of the buttered delight. 
In keeping with their quiet, b~t hospitable image, Phil Smidt's offers free seconds on the perch, and manager Probst told us that cust­omers almost never meet with the whisk in, whisk out treatment com­mon in restaurants that value turn­over above patronage. 
A special note ought to be made concerning Phil Smidt's Entree pol­icy. For the record, this is one restaurant without a salad bar. Instead, Phil Smidt's has whipped up a selection of entrees (in addition to the traditional soups and a,Ppetizers) ranging froin a special rectpe potato said to fresh cottage cheese, bean salad and cole slaw. Naturally, we tried them all. 

Sal Granata &Ryan VerBerkmoes 

Obs-erver restaurant reviewers, Sal Granata [left] and Ryan VerBer~moes [right] astound Phil Smitd's manager Mike Probst [center] with their culinary skill. [photo by Craig Pickering] . 
cream, and a cup of coffee. 
Gooseberry pie is recommended, although we tried the strawberry, too. Mike Probst said the Gooseberry was tlle House specialyt, backed according to recipe by a local firm. The ice cream was a perfect balance to the fresh tart flavor of the warm 
pie.
Although prices seemed a bit steep, we found Phil Smidt's cuisine to be worth the tag when prepara~ion and serving sizes were taken mto considertion. The atmosphere was quite congenial. Phil Smidt's is 
divided into ftve dining rooms _of 
. h fi

various sizes whtc can seat tve hundre~ people comfortably-
Phil Smidt and Son is not opened 
~e all know when graduattonis; but there are always footbaU weekends. We heartily recommed Phil Smidt's to all those returning in the fall. 
To get ·there from here (South Bend), take the Toll Road to Exit 1 (west Pt.), turn right (north) onto Calumet (Rte.41) and proceed two 
blocks past the hght on IndianapolisBlvd. and its on the right just before the railroad tracks. From Chicago, get off the Skyway at the 106th street Exit (the last exit 10 Illinois), go south on lndiana,Polis Blvd. to Calumet and turn left-us two blocks down, on the 
· h
fliZ t. •
Sal Granata is a senior from Connec­ticut, and a regular Fealtlres ~onlri­butor. Ryan V erBerkmoes is a Night 
I. 

[-­

o e<t lfor the Boned and Buttered For dess~rt we ·chose: pie with ice on Sundays which is a bummer since ,Editor. Both have hear a elites. 
. ... . .. .. ... . . . .. .. ' 

--.... -~ 
', 1 ,·f ' ~ I ' c ; •• I • • 'I '" • ' • • 
• .. 'I"; •"'" • .. •_t f.f It • •' 


------~-~--------....... 



Features 
Thursday,May 15, 1980-page 11 
lETTERS TO A LONELY GOD 


A Mythic Place 

Rev. Robert Griffin 
the Real Worid, or not? ". 
The time had come to say good­"The Real World hurts more," he

bye; but in our conversat~on, we 
said. ''There's a lot of pa.in going ~ncircled around the word hke foot out there.'' He waved h1s hands 10soldiers avoiding a sniper. We spoke directions that suggested Toledo orof days we especially remembered, Chicago. ''Everybody has it so easyand ofindefinite tomorrows when we around here. We don't know what it would resume the unfinished busi­means to go hungry or suffer." 

ness of friendship. 
I was grateful to h~ve him. explain"You know " he said, "that I 
, h , it, because you get kind. of tgnorat;~t

have ·no regrets, leaving ere. 
from staying too long 10 a mythiC"I'm glad " I said, "that you have
, , , place like Notre Dame. 

no regrets. 
"Remember," I said, "when"Still " he said "it's a place a Christopher Robin, leaving child­man ' could ' dream of.'' 

hood, tells Pooh-bear: 'I'm not going 
"Many have dr~amed. of it," -I 
to do Nothing any more.' Pooh-bearsaid. He was dreammg of1t now, but says: 'Never again?' And Christ­I didn't mention it, for fc:;ar of opher Robin says:'Well, not soembarrassing him. He was trymg on much. They don't let you.' 

nostalgia like a uniform at a dres.!.; 
He· really didn't remember, butrehearsal, trying to see how well 1t he waited gently for me to make my

fitted. "Of course, it's not the Real point. . h " I 'd ...
"I've always thoug t, sat , 10World," he said. "A guy has to grow that sentence, 'They don't let you,'_up and join the Real World some­the indefinite they refers to the folks 

time." · who bring you the Real World."
I thought of other places. that are "Rut who are they?" he said.

also not the Real World: He knew less about the RealMiddle-Earth, and the ''Dulce World than I thought he did. "You'llDomum" called Mole End-far mnre recognize Them when you m~etwonderful than Toad Hall-whe.re 
Them " I said. "You'll recogmzethe Wind sings songs in the. Wli­Them' when They don't let you do

lows· or the enchanted place 10 the Nothing any more."
Fore~t ~here a boy and his tedd} "Promise me," he said, "thatbear are always playing; or Camel?t, 
when I come back, you'll· be here.

the once future kingdom, parad1se Promise me that you'll stay prettybst, to be restored when Right s~all much the same."
?revail over Might; or the B~lga­''What a dreary promise thardoons, known in sleep, fu.ll of no~s~s, would be to keep," I said. "Promis­sounds and sweet a1rs, g1v1ng ing not to be wiser or more virtuousdelight: like Prospero'~ island, so tomorrow than I am today. Stagnat­that "when I wak' d, I cned to drean ing in my sins, because it wouldagain." _ trouble you to find me grown holy.
How fortunate we are to know Never having a birthday, becausemythic places that are not so you would resent my gettu1g old '' confining as the ~eal Worl~. 

'Td forgotten," he said, "how "How can you tell,"T satd,"if it's much old priests can rant and rave. 
[continued from page 10] 
i. what were the ded_ication ce~em?nies call~d 
ii who did ND play 10 the dedtcatlon game. . , .. d ... ( .. : h 00 that game? (Score 2 pts. fori. and 1 a p1ece for 11 an 111 
Ill. w 0 w h' Lak ?
24 Which is deeper: St. Mary's or St. Josep s e · 
25: If you received ag.radeof "V" for a course what does that mean.1 
(a) 
Yourgrade will be reported later. 

(b) 
You're auditing the class. . 

(c) 
You've done "very poorly" 10 the class. . . 

(d) 
Your prof feels you should transfer to the Umversuy of Vermont. 


ANSWERS: · · t h p tt atomi
1 (b) The present site of Notre Dame was a m1ssw.n C?r t e o hw h · 
2. When Father Sorin arrived at the present Site In d184h2, t. e Neavy · f h tw lakes He name t e stte otre
snow-cover concealed one o t e 0 ·. h Dame duLac, or Our Lady of the Lake, think10g that t ere was on1Y one 
lake on his land. · d · d · h U S 
3 (d) Father Badin, who was the first pr~est or ame tl t/ · h,~rchased the present site of Notre Dame 10 several parce s rom t e tovernment and from early settlers in 1830-32. In 1835 ~e sold the l~dd ~o the diocese in the hope that a school and an orp anage wou e 
established there. . d' s· ' c nvent 
4 (e) Built in 1855 the Earth Science Bud 10~ was a .~ster s .~ S . · '1 1958 The re~t of the choices are considerably newer. onn 
Untl · W h' H II-1881 LaFortune
Hall-1889, Admin Building-1879, as 10gton a -• (originally Seine Hall(-1883. h · h' · If'' the Minim 
5 (b) Claimed as "a complete sc oo1 w1t 10 1tse '· · h d · St Edward's Hall taught read10g, grammar,
Department, ouse 10 · . ' history, mathematics and ~atecht~m to bo~~ ages 6KtoJ . 3 kne , ' 6 (c) Rockne frequently s1gned hts name Knute. . oc · 
7. (b) In 1918 he became football coach and ch~mlstry teacher. 
8: Rockne-coached teams won 105, lost 12 and tied 5 for a 89.77 average. 9 (b) Who can forget that? f h lfb k) d Harry
10 Don Miller (right halfback), Jim Crowley (let a ak) ' ad the St~hldreher (quarterback along with Elmer LaydGen (~llbdcRic~fir~tugame
famous backfield known as the Four Hors~men. rant an them so in his account of the 1924 Np vtctory over ~r~~~l 
11. 
Notre Dame beat Stanford 21-~0 10,the 1925 Ros r called St Mary's 

12. 
Father Sorin established the Stster s Sc~ool (late d iri"1S43. In 1855 Academy (four miles acr~ss the state border 10 Bertran . · 



... Irish Sweepstakes 
Sorio was able to move the Academy onto its present Site. . 
13. 
(c) Mr. Rush, who .refuse to sc;:ll his lando~ the St. Joseph Rtver, suddenlychangedhis m10d and Sonn pur~hased lt. . 

14. 
The two buildings on campus fac~d wtth .cu.t stone. are the Memonal 


·Library (obviously) -and the Architecture Buddmg whiCh served " e Lemonnier Library from 1917 to 1964. . , 
15. (a) The first U.S. President was Father Sonn s greatest Amencan 
~~~(~)Modern Gothic, according to the building's archi~ect Willoghby J. 
Edbrooke. . 
17. 
(d) The,4400-lb. statue was placed on the D~me m Oc~ber 1882. 

18. 
·(c) At the time of its construction, the library was t.b_e -largest collegiate library in the world. . 

19. 
(a) 71 (this is par for me on the ~root moe). . 

20. 
(d) WSND-FM is at 88.9 FM whlie WSND-AM 1s 6'*00. 

21. 
(b) There are approximately 10 alumni for every student presently at the university. 

22. 
(b) According to DuLac, they may not exceed 4.6 cu. _ft. , . 

23. 
i.-The ceremonies were called "Performance Maxtm~s (~~dy, isn't it?(. ii. and iii.-Notre Dame played UCLA and the Brums, beh10d Lew Alcindor, won by a score of 88-75. . . . . 

24. 
St. Joseph's, the one where swi~mf~g 1s .per!Dttted, 1s dee~er. 

25. 
(b) Auditors receive a grade of V , wh1ch 1s not figured Into the GPA. (Try explaining that to your parents). SCORING: · . 90-100 GOLDEN DOMER. You are all set to be enrolled 10 the Graduate School of the Frank LaGrotta College for the Terminally Rah-rah. . 80-90 SILVER DOMER. You no doubt sit down atfootbal} games dunngtime-outs. 


2

70-80 BRONZE DOMER. You may know the last four words of the Alma Mater. 60-70 IRISH STOOGE. You must be a transfer student. 
50-60 DULAC DOLT. You sold your Southern Cal. ticket for $1.50. 40-50 SHAMROCK SCHLEP. You came to Notre Dame f£?r the Y'o.me~. 30-40 GAELIC GOOF. It took you two years to find out wh1ch bulidmg 1s the Library. 
Below 30 PRE-MED. You've been pimped. 
Mark Ferron is a junior from Wisconsin anda regular Featur~s ~on tributor. 
I've lovea you chiefly for your foolishness. I'd hate to c~me back and find a stranger tak10g your place." . 
It was not the change in me, but 10 himself that he chiefly dreaded. He had a f~ar I think, of the ways that Life can 'be unkind to the self­assurance of the Young a~d Bea_ut­iful. Ten years can pass qutckly, hke a riotous night in a cheap hotel. You wake up one morning to face the shabby dawn brin~ing }:'OU to the:; age of thirty-two, tasting d1shonor hke a stale cigarette on an empty stoJ?ach You study yourself in the .mtrror; your soul feels as compr.omtsed as though you had been do10g sexual tricks for the love of money. . 
"The mythic places,': I . satd, trying to help, but sound1!1-g h~e .a bad translation of a Rostcru~12.n s French, "are the places belong10g to creatures before they fell from grace. They are JJ?-irrors of out original innocet;~ce, hke water ~£?ld: ing onto the bnghtness of unfatl10g sunlight.'' 
''That is what the Old Grads co~e 
back for," he said, "looking for their 
original innocence! ' : . , , 
"Perhaps not ong1nal10nocence, 
I said, ''but an innocence only 
slightly removed. They ~all ~herr 
mood nostalgia. Nostalgia lights 
candles at the Grotto, and buys 
polish for the shimmer on the 
Golden Dome.'' 
''Is their innocence recoverable 
from the memory bank of myth?" he 
said. "Does it follow them ltk~ a 
ghost, or does it .~hun the soded 
soul sas vampires? . -f h 
•'Think Peter Pan, huntmg ord IS " I said "It's not bar to
h d

s a ow • · b t how do
1

f10d wliat you've ost, U;' I said 
you re-attach a shadow, . 
"It's not hard to find what you've 1 t but how do you re-attach ash~clow or recover innocence, once 
' f I"
it gets away rom you. . "Wendy did the domestic cho:es £or Peter , he said, "like sewmg 
, " 
back his shadow. . 
"Our Lady does the domestic 
chores for the household of heaven.'' 
I said. "Figure it out for yourself. 
The Homeless Boys never depend­
ed on Wendy as their mother as 
desperately as Domers looking for 
help from their Lady who is placed 
in the pathway of the sun and 
the moon from the happiest height 
on the campus.' 
"Griffin," he said, "You talk such nonsense it's really a pleasure to tell you g~odbye. '' 
"Oh good," I said. "I thought you'd ~ever leave.'' We shook han~s like pallbearers who have lost their 
loves. "Notre Dame won't r~mem­~er me for staining it with mnoc­ence,'' he said. 
"Then you won't need to .hurry back," I said, "to buy sweatshrrts 10 the bookstore." Suddenly, because we both felt the same urge, we hugged each other good. Then, before we could feel sorry for ourselves, he left. 
Sooner or later, for one reason or another he will come back. He will surpris~ me by speaking well of never doing Noth10g in the Real World. He will buy out the book­store; he will want to light candles in the Grotto. 
He'll make a myth out of his four years of college; he'll be more fanatic in his mythologiing than the maddest priest on campus. I-can hardly wait to meet his sons and daughters. 

Thursday,May 15, 1980-page 12 
The Observer -SportsBoard 
... Year 

[continued from page 131 
did manage a fifth place in the Western Collegiate Hockey As· sociation and a berth in the national playoffs. The scholar­ship delay was lifted after a pow-wow by University offi­cials, but maior changes in the hockey schedule 'will be made after next year. Hockev will most likely leave the WCHA because of travelling expenses and join the Central Collegiate Hockey Association. 
It was the women at Notre Dame and Saint mary's that continually surprised the com­munity. Sharon Petro directed her basketball team to a 20-10 record while finishing as one of the final 16 teams in the AlAW Division III national finals. The Irish, who won the Indiana State Championship in division III received an at large bid in the tournament. 
The upcoming year will see the Irish-move fiom Division III play directly to Division I. A switch will also be seen with the departure of Sharon Petro as head coach and the arrival of Mary DiStanislao. DiStanislao boasts an 89-27 career coaching record as mentor for North­western University. 

Four women swimmers achi­eved all-America status after performances in the National Swimming and Diving Champ­ionships held in Meadville, Penn. Swimmers]eanine Blatt, Lee Ann Brislawn and Kathy Latino received thf" national recognition along with diver Betsy Shadley. 
~otre Dame's ?~Y hope for a nauonal champ1ttonsh1p this year lies with the women's tennis team and the men's baseball team. The tennis team, winners of the Indiana Sate Championship, join Patsy Coash and Maureen Fitz~erald of Saint Mary's at the D1vision III championships of the region at Whitewater, Wis., this week­end. 
The 1979-80 baseball team eclipsed the previous all-time win mark of 24, set in 1928, en 
Molarity by Michael Molinelli 

. route to a 29-8 srring season. The squad, stil awaiting a possible NCAA bid, will lose mentor Tom Kelly at the close of the season. Kelly will step down to devote more time to his office as director of non-varisty athletics. Larry Gallo, currently an assistant coach for the Irish 
will  assume  Kelly's  role  next  
fall.  
Kelly  was  not  the  only  Irish  

coach to resign in 1980 as Ray Sepeta, wrestling coach, step· ped down after five years at Notre Dame. Sepeta will be replaced by Bro. Joseph Bruno, 
C.S.C. who compiled a 101­31-2 record during 15 years of coaching at the high school level. 
Title IX prompted more than a cut in hockey scholarships and change in the women's basket­ball program during the year. The notorious ruling elevated women's volleyball along with men's lacrosse as the administ­ration continues to right the ratio of men to women athletes. 

Interhall 
NOTRE DAME 

Baseball-Dillon II Basketball Co-Rec-Cotten-Hleks Basketball Women's-Badln Basketball Men's-Divislon 1: Howard, Division II: Pangborn II 
Basketball Cfub-NROTC A 
Cross Country-Dillon 
Football Men's-Morrlssey 
Football Women's-Breen-Phlllips 
Hockev-Aiumnl 
Soccer Faii-Fianner Hall 
Soccer Sprlnq-DIIIon 
Softball Men s-The Balls 
Softball Co-Ree-Red-Badin 
Tennis Men's-Doubles: Rlney-Moun­taln, Singles: Gandhi-Temoten Tennis Men's Open-Mike Hickey Tennis Mixed Doubles-Hammer-Bur­ton 
Tennis Men's Novice-Mike Blnkle 
Tennis Women's-EIIeen Rakochy 
Volleyball Co-Rec-Peterka 
Volleyball-Grad-MBA 
Volleyball Women's-Farley II 
Volleyball Men's-Carroll Wrestllng-Gannon (123); Davis (130); Roberg (137); Locksmith (145); lnfanger (152); Kester (160); Masl (109); Kissner (Hywt); Fessler (167); Baca (177) 
Swlmmlng-Zahm; 200-yard freestyle relay: Zahm; 200-yard freestyle Austgen; 50-yard freestyle: Wooding; 100-yard lnd.­medley: Laberge; Diving: Reust; 50-yard butterfly: Burns; 100-yard freestyle: Aust­gen; 50-yard backstroke: Madigan; 50­yard breastroke: Schneider; 200-yard medley relay: Pangborn 
Softbaii-G raduate-B lology Track-Dillon; 60-yard low hurdles: Dohman; 60-yard dash: dlvls; 400-yard run: Lauer; 880-yard run: Dwyer; mile run: Sullivan; 4-lap relay: Dillon; 8-lap relay: Dillon; long jump: lgoe; high jump:Westbrook Raquetbaii-Men's Slngles-Onufer Raquetbaii-Women's Singles-Galla­gher Raquetbaii-Men's Doubles-Siatt-
Phllbln 
Raquetball-co-Rec-Goyette-Bialek 
Racquetball-Grad Men's-Raby 
Racquetbaii·Grad-Fac Women's-Gorman Racquetball-Women's Ooubles­Kehoe-Owens Handball-Dragger 
Bookstore Basketball-The DefendingChumps Wornon's Bookstore Basketbaii-BJ's Blowoffs 
SAINT MARY'S 

Basketball All-Stars: Teresa Barton, Amy Morris, Maureen Fitzgerald, Joan Coogan, Peg Pieschel, Cathy Curls, Judy Liberatore, Michele Strohman Basketbaii-Schwenk's Swift Swlshers Volleyball-Southern Comforts 
Tennis Ladder: student, Terri Sparrow; faculty, Bob Borengasser 
Racquetball Ladder: student, Debbie Moore;_faculty, Craig Hartzer Backgammon-Melissa McLean Footbaii-ReQina Hall Olympic Week-Holy Cross Hall, Capt. 
Lexie Swedish 
BETHP 208Lewis Hope you had the greatest 19th birthday 
ever! Mom, Dad, and the Pennsauken Six. 

_T_h_e_O_b_s_er_v_e_r_-_S~po_r_t_s________________________________________~~T~h=u=r~~=a~y~,M.ay15,1980~age13 
In basketball 


Irish captains vie for Olympics 

Sports Briefs.____ 
Branning, Lally receive awards 
Senior Rich Br;mning and junior Maggie Lally have been voted Academic All-Americans in basketball by the College Sports Information Directors of America and the U.S. Tobacco Company. Branning, a 6-3 guard from Huntington Beach, Calif., was one of 10 players named to the university division first team. He boasts a 3.3 grade point average (of 
a possible 4.0) in manasement and plans to attend graduate 
school at the University of SouthernCalifornia next fall. 
1

Lally, a 5-0 guard from Sharon, Pa., was one of 10 players named to the second team of universiry division women. She has compiled 3.814 grade-point average as a pre-med major-and already received the Notre Dame Club of St. Joseph Valley's scholar-athlete award for women's basket­ballm 1979-80. 
ND-SMC tennis teams to compete 
~~t~e Dame and_Saint Mary's will both be represented in Division III Regwnal tennis competition this weekend at. ~hitewater, Wis. The Irish, winners of the Indiana Div!siOn III St~te Championship last fall, will send their enure tea~, w~th the exception of senior Paddy Mullen. Mullen wtll Sit out due to Sunday's commencement e~ercise. For Saint Mary's, Freshman Patsy Coash WI~l defence _her number one:; Indiana singles champion­ship and wtll team up with Maureen Fitzgerald in doubles competition. Notre Dame's spring record was 5-2, while the Belles posted a 1-3 mark. 
I 
-I 

traveled use for business lunches, buying clothes I for work, paying for vacations-for all sorts of after~school activities. 
One of the surest ways to establish yourself is to start out as if you were already established. And just having the Card gives you the chance to establish a solid credit rating. 
So trade up now. Just pick up an application form here on campus, or at a store or restaurant. Or call toll~free 800~528~8000 and ask for a Spe~ cial Student Application. And set yourself up for next year before you finish this one. 
The American Express®Card. Don't leave school without it. 
Five current or former Notre 
Dame basketball captains will 
be among the 57 players comp­
eting May 18-22 at the Univ­
ersity ofKenrucky for a spot on 
the 1980 U.S. Olympic basket­
ball team. 
Irish '78-'79 caytains Bruce Flowers and Bil Laimbeer, graduating '79-'80 captain Bill Hanzlik and next year's cap­tains Tracy Jackson and Kelly 

Year of the Minor Sport 
by Beth Huffman Sports Editor 

The 1979-80 school year was not exactly a banner year in Irish sports-that is not in football and basketball, the sports that are some times simultaneously thought of when one hears the name Notre Dame. 
Before the start of the 1979 
football season the big question 
in everyone's mind was who 
would become the heir to Joe 
Montana's quarterback throne. 
A man named Rusry Lisch 
quietly assumed the role and 
led the Fighting Irish to a 7-4 
season. The injury-plagued 
team suffered dismal losses at 
the hands of Purdue, Southern 
Cal, Clemson and Tennessee. 
But it was an elated Notre 
Dame squad that travelled to 
Tokyo, Japan, to defeat Miami 
of Florida in the Third Annual 
Mirage Bowl. 
Digger Phelps' 1979-80 ver­sion of the Irish basketball team also suffered somewhat of a disappointing season. Notre Dame managed to sweep the continuing UCLA series, first at home under the direction of John Paxson and his last­second foul shots and then on the Bruins' home court with a brilliant 80-73 win. 
Notre Dame added its ''an­
nual" upset with a double 
overtime win against number­
one ranked DePaul, making 
those ''2 5 and one! '' cries 
reality. 
The basketball team's 
dreams of a rerurn to the Final 
Four were quickly dashed in the 
first round of the NCAA tourn­
ament at far-away Lincoln, 
Neb. Missouri stepped onto the 
c~un and completely outdid the 
In~h to end the championship 
dnve. 
It was the ''Year of the Minor 
Sport" during 1979-80 at Notre 
Dame. A controversial law dub­
bed Title IX created havoc at 
Notre Dame, creating a delay 
on scholarship<: for min,x sports 
and. eventually to a major 
rea!Isnment of the University's" 
policies. 
Hockey, who's fate was the 
major concern of many fans for 
th.e first time this year, finished 
With a 18-20-1 record. l'he Irish 
[continued on page 12] 


Tripucka all will battle next week in Lexington for spots on the squad. 
Flowers, a 6-9 center, played for the Gabetti team in Italy last winter after being drafted in the second round of the NBA by the Cleveland Cavaliers. The Huntington Woods, Mich., native averaged 9. 5 points and 
4.9 rebounds as a senior for the Irish while accumulating 1 ,029 career points and finishing second on Notre Dame's career field-goal percentage chart with his .574 mark. ,-, 
Laimbeer, a 6-11 center, also chose to play in Italy last season. He wore a Pinti Inox uniform after the Cavaliers had made him a third-round pick in the NBA draft. He started every game at center for the Irish in his senior campaign­while splitting the playing time at the spot with Flowers. The top Irish rebounder that year wah a 5.5 average, he now calls Toledo, Ohio, home. 
A 6-7 guard, Hanzlik started 
his  final  two  seasons  in  the  
Notre  Dame  backcourt  and  
acquired  a  reputation  as  the  
Irish  defensive  wizard.  He  

averaged 7. 5 points per contest 

as a senior. The Beloit, Wis., native participated in the Pan­American Games tryouts last spring in addition to gaining international experience while competing with teams on tours ofYu~oslavia, China and South j Amenca last summer. 
] ackson, a 6-6 forward, led the Irish in scoring and reb­ou~ding last winter with 423 pomts for a 15. 1 average and 198 rebounds for a 7.1 mark. A superb outside shooter, he already stands eighth on the career field-goal percentage lists with his .520 average. The Silver Spring, Md., native needs only 69 more points to reach the 1,000 mark in his Notre Dame career. 

Also a 6-6 forward Tripucka is a two-year All-American who a.J.rcad.y__s_tan_4s_15th on Notre Dame's career scoring list with I 1,192 points. His 1 18.0-point average paced the lnsh last winter and he has scored in 
'double figures since his fresh­man campaign. The Essex Fells, N.J., native also compet­ed in the Pan-American trials last year after pacing the Irish in scoring as a sophomore as well. 
If you have a $10,000 job waiting for you, you could have an American Express® Card right now. 
Trade the,card you've been using every day for the Card you'll be using the rest of your life. 
You're about to leave school and enter a whole new world. You've got great expectations. So does American Express. For you . 
That's why American Express has created a special plan that reduces the usual application requirements-so you can get the Card before you finish school. 

All you need to apply is a $10,000 job or the promise ofone. use the Card the and the well~ 

The Observer -Sports Thursday,May 15, 1980-page 14 
The Boar's Head ~«S=RhJJa celebrates ~ ,ND-SMCgra·duation.,.,,.-'\. 
"All You Can Drink" · Champagne Brunch 

menu includes quiche lorraine seafood quicheham rolls ham&cheese 
omelette brunch available between 12noonand 2:30pm every SUnday 52885 U.S. 31 North 272-5478 
--~ 


(Qmpus View --ApQttments Now tenting f


otsummet 

J bedroom-S2JO 
2 bedroom -1250 

roommQtes stnl AVAILABLE JUNE-AUGUST JS needed for fQII pot repiQcement CenttQI Qlr &heQted pool 
CALL GAYLE FOR INFORmATION 272-1441 The Place to be Off-Cam us 




Branning, Hanzlik await NBA draft 

NBA's l?owerbrokers who have little more 
Hanzlik, 

-

Frank LaGrotta 
interest 10 you than your height, weight and shooting percentage. But, as much as possible, Branning and Hanzlik are trying to control their own destinies by working daily in the weight room and playing hours of basketball at the Rock whenever they get the chance. 
"I'm just trying to keep in shape," says 
who's been mixing basketball with 
When Abraham Lincoln signed the Emancip­ation Proclamation and freed the slaves, he forgot to include a passage on professional athletics. You see, nothing more resembles the old flesh auctions held on the docks of Charleston and Norfolk than draft day in a pro sports league. The owners, general managers, coaches, scouts and hangers-on, sit around smoking cigars, drinking coffee and rolling dice to see which lucky souls will be moving to their city. It seems like everybody associated with the team has a say in the process-
Except the players themselves. Nobody gives the athlete any choice in the matter. In fact, no one even bothers to ask his opinion until after the draft when he has to be polite and say stuff like: "Golly, I'm honored," or "No I didn't care who picked me as long as I got picked by someone." Secretly though, the poor kid who's never, ever been to Pittsburgh is thinking: "The Steelers! Why'd I have to get picked by the Steelers? ! '' 
Alas, says pro football czar, Pete Rozelle, no one can think of a better way to divvy up the talent that pours from the college ranks to the money lea~ue each year. And while a player not exactly reltshes the idea of spending 10 years of his life in Clevland, Milwaukee, Detroit or New York, each and every kid who ever puts on a jock strap for a major college dreams of the day when his phone will ring and secure his future. 
On June 10, 1980, Notre Dame seniors Rich Branning and Bill Hanzlik hope to answe.r that call. The starting guards and co-captains of Digger Phelps' 1979-80 cage crew, Branning and Hanzlik both want ''a shot'' at professional basketball. 
"It's something I'd really like to try," Branning told THE OBSERVER as a freshman back in 1977. "But I know few players actually make it to the pros so I'm keeping my options open.'' 
Both he and Hanzlik did just that. They will graduate on Sunday-Branning, a first team academic all-American, will take with him a management degree while Hanzlik leaves with a mechanical engineering diploma. Branning has 
' been accepted into the University of Southern California's graduate school of Sports Adminis­tratio_n; Hanzlik has job offers too numerous to mennon. But, right now, the future hinges on the June lOth. "Rich and Bill have been great assets to our program,'' comments Phelps when asked about their professional chances. "Both guys definite­ly have the ability to play professional basket­bali.The determining factor will be which team drafts them, their need for that type of player ... There's just a whole lot of variables in a situation like this." No one's denying the sensitivity of a situation where a person's future rests in the hands of the 
finals and job interviews for the fast two weeks. "For me, professional basketbal is a dream and if I get the chance, I want to be ready." 
And it does seem certain that both Hanzlik and Branning will get the chance to prove their mettle in the NBA. A recent piece in SPORT magazine pointed out the need for ball-handling guards who can control the tempo of a game. ''A coach on the floor," is what SPORT called this type of player-a description some feel Rich Branning wears like a glove. The piece also emphasized the league's search for the big, quick defensive specialist-the kind of reputa­tion Bill Hanzlik make for himself at Notre Dame. 
Of tourse, at this point it''s easy to speculate and even easier to dream. Hanzlik and Branning have been doing plenty of both since they started playing basketball too many years ago to remember. 
The speculation will end, but the dream begins, on June 10, 1980. 
...Everyone's 
[continued from page 16] 
my mother at the time, "Notre Dame may have lost, but life still goes on." 
Most almpni return for the big football weekends, and these days are the least tyi?ical for Notre Dame. To see therealNotre Dame 1s to watch ar. interhall game between rivals like alumni and Dillon or to watch ten guys go at it behind the Bookstore in the middle of A_pril. The real Notre Dame is not the boys clad 1n Green and Gold down on the field, but rather the screaming mob up in the stands. Notre Dame is not a team. Notre Dame is a group of the best people you would ever want to meet, and that is what makes this place so great. 
lacrosse picks captains for first varsity season 
The Notre Dame lacrosse team, which will 
begin its first season of varisty play next year, 
has elec_ted its captains for the 1981 campaign. 
Maune~ Beshllean, Massapequa, N.Y.; Tim 
and Carl Lundblad, Baltimore, Md., will serve 
as tri-captains for coach Rich O'Leary's initial 
varsity squad. 
~~ 








Hacil!ndiJ 


GRADUATES ·settling in a new city? Staying in 
South Bend? 
invite you to ioin with other single college grads in oveli 50 cities for exciting and 
fun activities. 

CAC of South Bend 
P.O. Box 844 

South Bend, IN 46624 
Outstandin_9 

~ 
NACHOS FIESTA 
Freshly Prepared Mexican Menu
* DINNER Combinations * LUNCHEON Specials
* AMERICAN Cuisine * CHILDREN'S Menu 

* Mexican IMr * Mlr&lritls * 11 A.M.· 10 P.M. (11 P.M. Fri. & S1l) * Closlll ......,, 700 LINCOLNWAY WEST (U.S. 33) MISHAWAKA-259-8541 
ON LINCOLNWA Y AT THE 100 CENTER 
SERVING COCKTAILS 




SUNDAYIll
---·--­
noon-2:00 



Classifieds 

Notl.CeS 
_:...:.....~-------­
= 
TYPING PLUS. Term papers, theses, dissertations. Light editing, ghost writing. Literary search, blbllo· graphles, genealogies. Job resume service. Sliding rate scale based on lead time. Special discounts on full contracts for theses and dissertations. aardvark automatic solutlons/p.o. box 1204 46624/phone (219) 289-6753. 

Lost&Found 
LOST: CLASS RING. lnt: P. K. Fllllngln '80. Contact Pat at 1798 for any Information 

For Rent 
Male students to share 4 bedroom hOUII near NO. Immediate OCCU· pancy. Newly remodeled, new carpet and partially furnished. Call 289-7269 after 7 pm. ($75.00 mo. for summer months). 
Off-campus housing, 6bedrooms (with locks) rented separately. Free laundry and kitchen. Superior rated. Avail· able for summer & fall. 291-1405 

Wanted 
Need ride from NYC·NJ area to N D May 16or 17forgraduatlon. Rob 1105 
Need 1 Graduation ticket. Will pay $$$$. Call Mary Beth 7160. 

Personals 
Now that my days as a student ara dwindling down to a final precious few, and while I can still get these 
ersonals In at avery reasonable price, r would like to express ;ny sincere thanks to a few of the many who have made Notre Dame a true home flJr the past 4 years. In particular: 
Cell Popovlch··my faithful secretary at the Observer who has gone through
living hell this year and always held her head high. Have fun with the ~holr next year.
Bruce and Nancy Danielson--my off-cam pus rarer:ts who always were there when needed them. 
Prof. Peter T. Brady & David MItchell--two people who have practlc· ally given their lives and limbs to Notre Dame. You two have more heart than I'll ever see again. 
Roland--my library buddy who kept me cognizant to the real world while I studied & studied on the 13th floor for hours more than either of us can count 
2-North··for being a bunch of COOZes (or mice, as applicable) 
My R.A. Brian Dolphin, who has turned me Into a more well rounded person. I'm sure the maid hates both of us because all of our dead soldiers don't make it Into the grave sometimes (God that carpet reeks!) 
Rosemary 
For :,elng here; for always being herself; for not being 100 V2 IJutch; and fo· all your understanding. 
My folks, who probably have seen me a whole 2 weeks since August. I can only thank you for everything. And finally I'd like to announce to those still reading this thesis, that Arthur Andersen & Company's Small Business department will not be seeing me In Charlotte, N.C. due to a slight change In plans as I'll be In their Milwaukee, Wisconsin office. 
Well, my pontlflcatlon has taken up much too much space already. All I can say Is THANKS. 
Kevin P. Manion 

Mullett 
I'm jealous of the lucky Houston boys, and I need a date to the Homecoming Dance In the ~all. What do you say? (Fisher will t~ke care of the plane ticket). 
xoxoxo. 
Tom 

Sliver Lady Carol Br Jan, 
Thank you for your advice and help...eapeclally my freshman year when "the Indiana wind and rain cut through me." 
Best of luck to you both. Keep In touch, Tritely, but never more sincerely, Elton 
To Leln, Gale, Heidi, Sheep, RBB, Jill, ML, PC, Laura, Duane, Sweet Mac, Rumble-Bumble, Peggy, Jimbo, Jeff, Bill & John, Rick Gobbl, Frank, and yes, Mellow Ed too, 
Good luc~ and what more can I say to the best. 
you. . . . of luck in your new position.

• ....... -.. • • · Love8. --,·.·.~ .• ,.,.. ,., .• , ,.,, ··• >~oursln·N.....s•·• • • · · Circulation Manager Emeritus
t·.4iibll..,.'"').tt.......•t~"~••\o·oL·'·M ~-....... ~---, v", 
To Rose. steve, Kevin, Mark, and all the other graduating Observerltes·· 
THANKS LOADS. Vou've made my job so much easier, and I'll always be grateful. Make sure you don't lose touch. 
Lefty 
Pete, 
It's been a great year, but it's timf! to move on. I wish you lots of success In law school and may your most cherish· ed dreams come true. 
Love always, 
Diane 
To Theo and the H·monsters, 
It was great scoring for you guys, even If you did pull a fast one on me. Congratulations and good luck to youall. 
Love, mb 
To the ex-SENIOR BAR staff, 
It was really agreat time wasn't it? Thanks for making Senior year the best yet! Let's all meet · for Kamikazees at dawn on Sept. 6th. Be there, 
Kim 
P.S. Good luck to the new staff; you're doing a great job so far! 
Cell, 
Thanks for all the help the last few months. I'm really looking forward to next year. 
Paul 
TO SOME DAMN YANKEE, 
57!! And we lost by two!! Aw hell, It was fun while it lasted. Good luck In Buffalo! 
A Southern Belle 
Tony.Its been great! I'll miss you. Love &Kisses, Llze 
Carol Buscanlcs It's been a fast and Interesting two years. Most of all it's been enjoyable. 
·Congratulations and good luck! Love, Chris 
P.S. Are you sure you don't want a 
P.R. man? 
More than desperately need 1-6 grad· uatlon tickets for California grand· parents and sisters who have never seen the dome. Call Rick 7695. Will pay big $$$$! 
Rob Flemming, 
Here's apersonal for you so that you get your name In the paper (to go with the picture that appeared before). Also, to tell you that Piglet and I are going to miss you a whole bunch next year. Good luck In Med school--you'll be a brilliant M.D. Please keep In touch! 
Love from an Admitted Admirer. 
B. Anthooy-· Miss you already, though you can 
fetch your own bloody slippers! Love, ME 
BRIAN! CONGRATS! Sister Molly 
To the NAZZ Seniors·· 
Here's to good music, good times and, most of all, good friends! You've made the NAZZ what It Is--not just a place, but PEOPLE ...speclal thanks to Gene Barbanera for "Inspiration" and to Jim Geselbracht for seeing through all the absurdity. To our loyal performers, remember us on your album credlts...and to everyone, the best of everything from all of us left behind to carry on. 
Mary Ahern and the NAZZ staff. 
To Pauler, Glad to have you back to normal. No more "Hermit Woman" for you! 
Jules, 
Here's one for you too. Won't say anything cuz I'll be seeing ya. Just had to get your name In the paper though. 
Because of lack of time, I'll have to lump these all together. I just want to say goodbye to everyone, and hope to run into ya'llln the future, as much as possl ble··G us, 911, John, Polly, Dan O'Keefe, all the SUNDEFers (I feel like I've been adopted), Jamy, Beth, 3 Walsh (the E·Sectlon), Sr. K, the Zahmbles (especially Campus Viewers), KEENANites, and my favor­Ite SMCer, Mary Beth Butler. Here's to nostalgia, and reunions!! 
Love, 
Kim 
To my wonderful Day Editors· 
Kate, sue and cece; Mary Kay, Toni, Mary B., Mac, Patty s. and all the SMC writers, and especially Pam and Mary. Thanks for all the hard work and hours of dedication. I couldn't have done a thing without 
To my Rock Lobsters: , Thanks for all the "whlspy" and "revealing" moments. Sacre Mare 
John Ferrolll·· Thanks for being you, etc. Love, MB 
Kathy Murray, 
Thanks for making Tuesday nightssuch a good time. Hope you and Bill that darling little arki. have all the 
best next year. I'll be back to visit, hugs and kisses, Kim 
B.K. 
Two years of ups and downs; two 
years of fun and frustration, happiness 
and sadness, ducks and sunsets, late 
nights and early mornings, dances and 
parties, hayrides and Friday night 
dinners. For me, a whole lot packed
Into a little time--not enough time--and 
I still want to see you! I guess It 
means--somebody loves you. You're 
special. 
What can I say but THANKS When I needed someone, you were there, Love, P.J. 
Thanks to the ENTIRE Observer 
staff--especially Greg and Jim. You've 
been a big part of the last two years 
and I've loved every minute of it (well, 
not every minute!) Good luck with the 
revamp; can't walt to see it! Til next 
year, · 
Love, 
Kim 
John McGrath, 
They may have put us out to pasture, but they haven't seen the last of us! 
The Partner 
Rose, Bob Rudy, John "partner" McGrath, Mary Fran, and all the other "vital Observerltes." Thanks. I couldn't have made it without you. 
A former advertising mogul 
GTE means "Get Thee Electric" 
I would like to personally thank the following people for making the brief story of an adopted member of the Notre Dame "family" an enjoyable one: 
Andria A., Ryan "no doz." Cindy 
K. (from Palos Park Heights Lawn, Illinois), Cindy E., Betsy M., Mara H., Jrd floor Badin Beauties, Ellen & Colleen (and the rest of the Lyons Lovelies), all Observerites & WSND· ers, Renee L., Sue G., Sue S., and all the rest of the New Jersey contingent, old pals and new budds, plus all other Intimate and casual acquaintances. Au revoir, y'aii ...Have a nice life. 
Nell 
P.S. EEK! I'm an alumnus! ...Can anyone please direct me to the bookstore? 
Care, 
This Ia your last personal: 
Are you? 
The Man 
Beth, Here's your Birthday personal. Sorry It's ao late. Tim 
79·80 OBSERVER STAFF, It was fun while It lasted. Have a good summer! JohnS. 
Dear Barb Brock, 
Good luck on finals. Looking forward to seeing you at graduation. I'm psyched for summer. I love you forever and ever. 
Love, 
Jake 
Tim Derse, 
You've been my fav for four years; I'm just sorry that there Isn't more time, and that we had to work so hard to make it at NO. Oh well, Milwaukee Isn't THAT far away! Thanks for being here, 
Love always, 
Kim 
Dan, To a "brother" who turned out to be a real friend. Cindy 
To Vegetable Bob, 
Yes, here Is another personal. Pauler couldn't be here herself, but she asked that 1pass on the "abuse." Though we've never met, I know the name is appropriate! You can still retallate... l'm sure you can think of 
something to get her back with? 
Patty Hackett, 
We will certainly miss the best darn National Communications Coordinator that THE OBSERVER ever.had. Best To future 601-ers, next year is our chance--we'll be back out on the street, making It the BEST! Dream this summer! 

Bern··thanx for making this tough year one of the most memorable and cherished ever. You better be around next year. 
Betty--the couch Is already lonelyMark--see you at the birthday part~ Kltch--thanx for R-ball, your ready 
ear and for making me regain confi· dence In the Notre Dame man. You're for real·· 
Bye Kohunskl, hope you don't die In Cleveland MJ··thanx for letting me...talk 
Mary Iowa!  Black & Beef--take  care  of  
betsle  

Dennis, 
How many is that so far? It's kind of hard to be spontaneous after all those Toasted Almonds, and then getting up at the crack of dawn! Anyway, I'll catch ya at one of the "functions" before Sunday I hope. See ya, 
Kim 

Summer rentals-­June 1-Aug. 20 near ND. Reduced rates. 234·2626 
Martina 
Vlellleb zum Geburtstag. Someday we will celebrate It on a breakwater on Waiklkl. Entschulden Sie meln Deutsch 
Hippy 

Greg Sobkowskl, 
1 couldn't leave without one last personal! I'll finally be out of your hair, at least til football weekends. It hasn't been that bad has it? I mean, you've got a slew .of groupies more obnoxious than I could ever be...Best of luck in law school, and continued success with the group. Take care, 
Kim 

RM and KM: Gee, kids, thanks for the Invite. I haven't had one of those in 25 years!Love ya' "MOM" 
Smlnders, 
Here it is, big as life! Glad to have ya back at ND; just wish you hadn't missed the whole semester. How about coming to Chicago and we can be a team again?! Hope you get your future straightened out, and tllat you make all the right decisions. Enough sap; see ya later, Tater. Here's to making up for lost time, til the corks blow on Sunday! 
Douglas, 
Welcome back to ND! Brings back memories, eh? How 'bout Rusty Nails til dawn? 
Love, 
Kim 

P.S. You too, Howle baby! 
Mike Miller (A.K.A. Sundance), 
Here's to the door between our r'>oms! What Robbie Bobbie doesn't know won't hurt her! 
326Walsh 

Robbie Bobble, Just kidding! ! 
Well, comes now the time to pay all public debts; thanks to all who made this extended adolescent ego trip possible; mainly my family, Flanner's 5th, 704 Corby and the IRC past and present, also RUB and chumps, Margie and Kate, Wemhoff's girl and side kicks, Steve, Mlco and Mega, secretaries Doris and Joan, Bobbl and the Cell, certain Observerites, certain administrators, (for better or worse) and all victims of five years growing up, 
Sal 

Sorlnltes-
Happy Graduation and congratula· tiona. We're going to mlsa you. Good luck on all your future adventures. We love you! 
Budd Br Wall 

P.S. Phil Ruaao, 1 couldn't let you graduate without one. 
'Jennis Hughes, O.k., you want five, you'll get five! 
Dennis, 
Thanks for the good time last nlght··too bad the whole semester was wasted, 
Kim. 

Dennis, Sorry we blew you off, SMCers 
Dennis, Have fun In S. Carolina; watch out for snakes in the grass! 
Dennis, Good luck In the future--hope ya swing Georgetown! 
Mike Trausch, 
Congratulations on your graduation. Thanks for all your help this year. This place won't be the same without you.Love, Mary 
Ralph (or "God" as the case may be), 
Have agood summer and good luck In law school! I'll miss you next year! If you're aver In St. Louis, stop by!
Love, 
Mary 

To all my senior buddies (Mark, JAF, Frank, Tom Goedde, Tim, and all other Observer alumni-( Good Luck In life, I'll miss you! 
Love, 
Beth 

Observer Sports Staff-
Thanks so much for helping the transition be so easy 1especlally Mark, Paul, Mike and Frank 1-You've made this job a little bit easier. 
Love, 
Beth 

Sophomore Business Survivors: We made it! 
0bserver friends and business ass­ociates: 
May the road rise to meat you this summer-see you and the computers come fall 
John McGrath 
---~-----------­
Thrifty Advertising Co-founder: 
May your subordinated debentures arrive net present value on .their double declining balance deprectated marketable securites (a.k.a. have a profltbale summer).
The other News Editor 
PATSY-Have a great summer! Behave! I'll miss you. Love, Your roomie [Beth) 
Ceil-

Thanks so much for "hanging in 
there." Looking forward to an inter· 
esti ng year! 
Mike 

PAL-I'd give anything to change what' been or make sure the future will be better. Since I can't do that, all we have left Is hope for the for the future. Let's keep trying. 
To all my friends­
Have a great summer! 
See ya soon 
Love, 
Pam 
Pam,

Thanks so much for putting up with 
Terl and I! 
Beth 

1 find typing at 2 a.m. extremely 
boring and tiring---thank God I'm 
going home, even if it is to Ludlow 
Falls!!! 
1 NEED A JOB!IIIF YOU HAVE EMPLOYMENT FOR A REASON· ABLY INTELLIGENT YOUNG WO· MAN I'M THE ONE FOR YOU!!IIII HELP HELP HELP HELP HELP HELP 

1 l 
( ] 
L_________________________~--------------~Margle ___====================---------------------------------------------------~ 




Everyone's an athlete at ND 
Rick Telander of Sports Illustrated, visiting Notre Dame to cover Bookstore Basketball, summarized it best when he said that Notre Dame was the only college he had seen where everyone looks like an athlete. 
Although he might have been exaggerating a little, Telander realized the importance that sports have on chis campus. Whether it be a big football game in Notre Dame Sta­dium or a keg softball game on the Green Field, manr of the memories the graduating seniors wil take with them when they leave Notre Dame will have something to do with sports. 
Who would have thought, after that humil­iating loss to Tony Dorsett and Pittsburgh in the first football game, that the Irish would provide us with so much excitement in four years) We got .our national championship, and enough come-from-behind wins to take a few years off our lives. And yet the two best games were clearly runaway wins: that fantastic October afternoon when Dan Devine unleashed the Green Machine on Southern Cal, and an equally convincing victory aver Earl Campbell and Texas to claim the national title. 
The basketball team also gave us a fair share of excitement, usually in that madhouse we call the ACC. The students did their fair share to help create the proper atmos­phere in the classic wins over San Fran­cisco, Marquecre, and DePaul, and now any team ranked number-one will always have reservations about coming to Notre Dame. 
Football and basketball stand out, but the Notre Dame teams that don't get on national television have also enjoyed success in the past four years. The hockey teaf!l made the 


Mark Perry 


playoffs all four years, but had more trouble trying to overcome the administration than the teams on the ice. The fencing team won two national titles, but still had trouble getting any respect from the students. The baseball and tennis teams enjoyed their best seasons in years, and the soccer and women's basket­ball programs showed remarkable growth in four years.
But there is a lot more to Notre Dame sports besides the news people read about or see on 
T.V. You only have to visit this campus any day of the week to see someone playing some kind of sport, whether it be battling for the interhall basketball title in the Pit or just playing a friendly game of racquetball. So m~ny pleasant memories revolve around sports, and so many friendships have been made on,the courts in front of Stepan Center and the grassy fields that surround this campus. And while there is still a de-;ire to win, most of the people around this place can still find pleasure in a game well played. 
What so many outsiders don't realize is that Notre Dame does not revolve around the success of their athletic teams. I can still recall walking back to my dorm after a loss to Michigan, and seeing the students out on the quad throwing ar"ound softballs or playing frisbee. As I said to 
[continued on page 14] 
Thursday, May 15, 1980-page 16 
Carter, Bone shine in 50th classic 

by Beth Huffman of everyone," said Yonto. "They'll give us a little more Sports Eilitor ''The green team defense was strength," said Yonto. "but 
Wide receiver Tony Hunter displays his
especially good on short yard­they have to learn to walk 
talent in catching a football prior to the 50th
The outcome of the 50th age situations, if we continue before they can run. They have rDTony 
Annual Blue-Gold Game on Saturday, May 3.
Annual Blue-Gold game was as that we'll be OK in the fall. to get their feet on the ground, 
[photo by john Macor].
expected, the first-team "blue" The white squad did very good it's a big jump from high school squad (wearing green) demo­against the number-one team ball to college.'' lished the second-team "gold" and stayed in there all the squad (wearing white). way." The blue team collected 26 The offensive performance Theismann first-downs, gained 295 yards saw Carter, a Tacoma, Wash., on the ground and 186 in the resident, gain 91 yards rushing 
... Just another alumnus 
air en route to the 38-0 shutout. on 17 attempts with two touch­It was a dismal day for the downs. Jomin~ Carter with gold underdogs, who could not impressive statistics was Jim Alumni. The word usually evokes images of pull out an upset win like the Stone, who managed only five doubleknit plaid pants, tams, football weekends 
second team Ohio State squad yards rushing while playing for and reunions. Bill that did all but eat Art Schlic­the gold team but ran 12 But a sweatshirt shorts and spikes? ter alive in the Buckeye's attempts of 91 yards with one When you're Joe Theismann, that's typical 


Marquard
spring scrimmage. The gold touchdown while on the blue alumni garb. 

team, utilizing a total of five club. Why do so many Irish grid graduates like Bob signal callers, managed just two Golic, Kris Haines and Theismann return to the important in the NFL," said the 1970 first team first-downs, ran for nine yards Mike Courey kept an edge shadow of the Golden Dome and the ACC all-America player. "Terry Bradshaw has got to and passed for 58. over the other quarterback con­practice field come spring time? be the greatest quarterback in the NFL 
Two freshman roommates, tenders Tim Koegel and Greg "Probably because I love it here so much," physically, and his teammates at Pittsburgh are Phil Carter and Rod Bone, Knaflec while leading the blue explained Theismann as he headed toward great athletes. But their mental state gives them stole the show in the classic, squad.· Courey, a senior-to-be, Cartier field. "The facilities here are excellent the biggest edge-they're like a relentless taking offensive and defensive led all passers with 121 yards in and the r.eople are the greatest." machine. player of the game honors. the air, completing seven of 10 On exile from the Washington Redskins until "Believe me, I've run away from them enough Bone, a Las Cruce, N.M., attempts. Courey also scramble training camp starts in two months, Theismann times," quipped Theismann with a smile. native, earned his award for his on the ground for 32 yards in (who still looks like the boy next door-if you live Explaining his condition program, Theismann defensive stalwart abilities dis­four trys. on Malibu Beach) has been on campus this said, "A quarterback has to get the most out of played in five unassistt-d tack­Pvn~inr-. an area that gave spring videotaping academic mini-features to his body that he can. He's like a computer-he les, _six assists and one inter­the Irish some headaches last be aired at halftime of Notre Dame basketball has to achieve maximum output ception. ye';lr, could become a strong games by Metromedia Sports. ''You just have to give it your best shot. If you 
''Bone gives us an added pomt next season. Sophomore "I've been spending time in the library, are conditioned properly both mentally and advantage in the defensive Briau \V'hdao from Savannah, chemistry labs, classrooms and the like trying to physically, you can do almost anything you want seconda,ry,'' said Joe Yonto, Ga., impressed the classic's highlight the academics of the university,'' said to do." defensive coordinator. "His sparse crowd with five punts for the 1970 Academic All-American. ''This has got Theismann is impressed with this year's Irish speed gives us added depth.. an average of 36.8 (44-yard to be the best university in the country, and I squad, especially at his old position. "All of the 
Overall we were extremely long). The blue team's duties realize that more and more every time I come quarterbacks are very talented. It's a lot pleased with his performance.'' were handled by Dick boushka, back." different from when I used to play, though, 
Other bright spots in the Irish who could manage only a long Theismann, whose in-laws live in South Bend, because I can only look Mike (Courey) eye-to­defense included the play of tri­of 33 yards, with an average of likes to visit at least a couple of times a year. eye. I have to look up to everyone else. captain Tom Gibbons, who 32 yards in two attempts. ''I really like to bring my kids up,'' offered the ''I tell these guys that they have to be prouo to recovered two fumbles and ] oining the Irish punters next veteran pro with the enthusiasm of an average wear those colors on the field because there is intercepted an errant gold pass. season will be Blair Kiel, a alumnus. "We feed the ducks and visit the such a great tradition of athletes before them. Tom DeSiato also hauled 10 an Columbus, Ind., native who has grotto and just enjoy the campus." "In fact, it would be a big mistake for any interception for the green team tallied a personal long punt of Notre Dame's career leader in passing student to come here and not take advantage of while ] ohn Hankerd and ] oe 74 yards while owning a 38.4 yardage (4411), touchdowns passing (31) and everything Notre Dame offers." Gramke each recovered a fum­career average. completion percentage (.570), Theismann is He might not look like one on the exterior, but ble. Kiel, along with a host of getttng in shape for camp and another lengthy Joe Theismann is an alumnus at heart. 
"We were pleased with the heralded freshmen will be join­NFL season. I wonder if his car horn plays the Victory enthusiasm' and Ioverall· attitude ing the Irish team in the fall. ''Physical and mental conditioning are very March? 







