Griffin page5
" " " 


Sec~rity apprehends two in separate incidents 

VOL XV. No tlll an md(·pc-ndc·m <;rudt·nt nt>w.-.papf'r serving notrf' dame and saint mary's FRIDAY, APRIL 5. Jf,JHJ 

By TOM SHAUGHNESSY andJOHN HIGGINS 

Notre Dame Security arrested two males for assault early yesterday morning in what Rex Rakow, assis­tant director of security, termed "separate, but related" incidents. 
Arrested were Frederick Suther­land, 22, of 440 Sunnyside, and Christopher Whitlock, 24, of I018 Foster St. Sutherland was charged with assault and will be charged with attempted criminal conver­sion. Whitlock wao; charged with as­sault and battery. 
The first incident occured when Thomas Perruccio, a Howard-Hall resident, and Thomas Reuter, an off­campus resident, left Lafortune at about 12: I 0 a.m. Pcrruccio, whose heart condition forces him to usc a golf cart for transportal I ion, had 
parked his cart under a tree outside Lafortune. According to Reuter, af­ter exiting the building, the two noticed a man, who they later iden­tified as Sutherland, attempting to pick the lock on the cart. Reuter 


Reagan improves; Hinckley undergoes tests 

WASIIINGTON (AP)-President Rca~.:an, making "super" progress, took two strolls around his hospital compound yesterday while life sup­port tubes rt·rnained fixt·d in his cht·st and nost•. lie told two visiting ~nators: "I found out it hurts to get shot." 
After his best night's sleep since an apparent ricochet bullet tore into his lett lung in Monday's ao;sas~ina­tlon attt·mpt, the president wao; in "t·xtrt·mcly good spirits" according to his personal physician. 
Reagan walked for 50 yards yes­tt·rday morning, then, joint·d by wife Nancy, ventured out of his room again In the late afternoon. 
Meanwhile, John W. Hinckley Jr., the man charged with attempting to assassinate the preident, was found competent to stand trial. But during a court appearance -in which he wore a white, bulletproof vest -Hinckley was ord~o:red held in an in­stitution for further sanity tests while a federal grand jury inves­tigates the charges against him. 
Aspokesman for George Washing­ton University Hospital, where Reagan is being treated, said that the president's press secretary, James S. Brady, was making satisfactory progress after a bullet pierced his brain in the shooting. But he said "we arc a long ways from home on Mr. Brady," also being treated there. 

Still, hopes were high for the press secretary, whose first utterance was the cry of "Raccoon!" when he recognized wife Sarah standing over him Wednesday. That's her nickname. 
Dr. Dennis O'Leary said it was "f.1r too early" for a neurological assess­ment of Brady, adding that even a preliminary assessment might be "a couple ofweeks" away. 
Qualified medical sources reported that in the moments after Reagan arrived at the hospital emer­gency room, doctors "thought they might lose him" because he was hemorraging internally although 
Studentcustodians 
Residentsguard ND buildings 
By ANNEJANE DREGALLA 
StaffReJmrter 
They livt· in the Field !lou~. the Ar<:hitecturt· Building, the Fire llousc, tht· Stt·pan Center, the ACC, tht· CCF., tht· ROTC Building and cvt·n Washingwn llall. They arc stu­dt·nts who occupy what some con­l'ciVl' of as tht· dark crevices and cornt·rs of tht· most unlikely build­Ings on l'ampus. 
FRIDAY--·-·.·.·.·.. 
:>=:>=========:::::FOCUS 
t>can Kocmt·r terms tht·sc bravt• and mysterious individuals "student t·ustodians" and dt•st·ribt·s their positions as "performing the func­tion for tht: l lniycrsity of taking care of tht: buildinl(s....in case of early morning fire, someone causing a 
,-,robkm or otht:r st:rious incident." Rot·mer calls it a "commonsense type of thing; .keeping tht: buildings and people protected at all times." 
The student custodians also serve the function of providing the Uni­vt:rsity with an insurance break. In­surance rates arc lower ifsomeone is residing in any given building for fire and security reasons. 
The University has no~ as some might suggest, placed random stu­dents into these unusual living spaces on the basis ofother housing availabilities. Rather, the job ofa stu­dent custodian is a paid position which must be ;1pplicd for through the financial aid office. The jobs arc awarded on the basis of financial need and personal responsibility. The jobs arc usually awarded to a student with some sort of academic tie to the building. 
Tucked away in-bctwc~n floors of studios and class rooms-in the Ar­chitecture Building is a lone door which reads Michael Kicrzkowski. Behind that door amid a towering bookcase tilled with such titles as World Architecture and Vat·ation Houses lives a fifth year architecture student. Kit:rzkowski applied for the student custodian job with need ofa place to stay at the heginning of last summer. The situation has proved beneficial to Kicrzkowski, his only "complaint" being that the room is "too comfortable." 

Michael emphasized this point by sharing the story ofa student who, a few weeks ago, dragged in his mattress and set it up under his drawing board to case the strain of the dl·mandlng hours the "archcys" put in. Michael recognizes that any student would feel very fortunate to have an entirely furnished apart­ment with a kitchenette and hath, large desk, sofa bed, bookcase and two sunny windows to collapse in front of when the work downstairs 
necessitates escape. 
Many students joke about the 
Field House and few would try to 
envision living there. David Lobdell 
however, immediately reacts to any 
See CUSTODIANS, page 4 
there wa<; no indication he had been shot. 
O'Leary "flatly" denied the presi­dent wao; ever in danger of dying from the wound. But he ack­nowledged that his own information came second-and third-hand. Direct sources, including a senior ·physician involved, told The As­sociated Press that Reagan had lost 
nearly half his blood. 
asked Sutht:rland what he thought he wa~ doing and asked him to leave, telling him that ht: would call Security if he did not. Sutherland responded that he did not care. Reuter replied, "If you don't care. why don't we call Security togeth­er?" As Reuter turned toward 
Lafortune, Sutherland hit him in the right side of the head from the rt:ar, breaking his glasses. Reuter proceeded into Lafortune and called Security as Sutht·rland walked from the scene. 
Pt·rruccio followed Sutherland in 
the cart with a stick in his hand, hut 
lost Sutherland behind LaFortune 
and drove to the north quad, then 
turned toward the south quad. Pt:r· 
ruccio picked up security offict·r Art 
Pfcifkr behind Lafortune and the 
two pursued Sutherland to the south quad where the suspect was ap­prehended by security officers, near O'Shaughnessy Hall. 
Perrucclo and Reuter were both taken to Security where they iden­tified Sutherland and filed state­ments. Reuter wao; examined for Injuries at St. Joseph Hospital, hut was rcleao;cd. 
Rt·utcr praised the security of­ficc;r's work saying,"Security did a really good joh. They were quick, courteous, and effcuivt·." 
The st·cond incidt·nt occurred at 
abo<Jt 12:15 a.m., hetwt·cn the Busi­
ness Administration building and 
Newland Sdencc Hall. Two stu­
dents, who wish to remain 
anonymous, were walking toward 
their car, parked ncar tht· ~'nginccr­
ing building, when they passed a 
black man, wearing a Notre Dame 
varsity sports jacket and talking to 
See ASSAULT, page 4 
1

SU corntnissioners look tofuture 
I 

The Student Union Commissioners for 19Hl-82 have ht:cn selected j and took office last week to begin their yearlong terms as coordinators I of Notre Dame student activities. • 
In the Director's chair is Bill Lawler, a junior government major 1 from Bethesda, Maryland. Serving as Contemporary Arts Commis­
1 

sinner this past year, Lawler's new duties include acting as a represent·. 1 ative to outside organizations and coordinating the commissions and events which they sponser. "I am plcao;ed with the numht·r of pt·oplc who applied for student union and I feel we have a good mix bt·twt·en people last year and younger, new people, stated l.awln."l'm n·ally looking forward to next year. 
Replacing the one Associate Director arc two AssiMant I>irt:ctors; junior Tammy Linheck from llouston, and junior Bl'rllil' Sq~atto, from Springfidd, II. Their jobs consist of acting as a liaison ht·twct·n tht· director and the commissions. 
The all-important Social Commission has as its kadl'r sophomort• Steve Strakc, another nativt· of Houston. IIis duties include planning and carrying out activities such as wdcomc-week, block partit·s. and all campus-wide social events. According to Str;1ke, thl' llJHI-Hl social commission will bt• geared more towards inter-hall and intra-hall events. Another t'hangc which will affect tht• whole Slmknt l Inion as well as.tht· Social Commission is their rcn·nt cnrollml'nt in NECAA, a professional studl'nt programming board whkh helps to renuil hands, speakers, movies, and comedians. 
Junior Marilyn Mayer is the new -Cultural Arts Commissioner. Giving up her position as Acadl'mic Commissioner, her new respon­sibilities include bringing the Arts to Notre Dame in the form of the Collegiate jazz festival, the Sophomore Litt:rary festival. and other such events. 
The Academic Commi.o;sion, which primarily serves to bring 
speakers to campus will he headed next year by George ~antos, a 
junior who served on the same commission this year. • 
See COMMISSIONERS, page 3 
Friday, April 3, 1981 -page 2
News Brie/§
c===~=======*==============================~
by The Observer and The AHociated PreJJ 

Andrew Young former United Nations ambassador and associate ofthe late Martin Luther King]r., will discuss "Foreign Policy in the Reagan Years" at a public talk at 2:30 p.m. tomorrow in the Center for Continuing Education. The talk is sponsored by the Black American Law Students Association (BALSA) and the Third World Commission ofStudent Government, and is open to the public. Young has traveled widely in recent years, speaking out in the cause ofcivil and human rights. He is a mayoral candidate in Atlanta, his home com­munity. Young will also attend a 4:30 p.m. social hour in the Morris Inn and a 5 p.m. dinner where his remarks are expected to focus on his association with Rev. King during this anniversary month ofhis assas­sination. Tickets for the dinner are 1115 and may be reserved by calling 272-8770 or 277-2366. The BALSA organization was established at Notre Dame in the early 1970s and annually brings outstanding speakers to the campus for public talks. -The Observer 
A psychic who two months ago predicted on a television show many of the details of President Reagan's brush with death says she was shocked that her forecast came true, but not really surprised. Tamara Rand. 32, predicted on a show taped inJanuary that President Reagan would experience "a thud" in "the chest area" during "the last few days of March," and that "someone fair-haired" would be in­volved. She said there would be "shots all over the place." On March 30, President Reagan was shot in the chest. Three other men were also wounded. Asandy-haired man,John W. HinckleyJr., was charged with the assassination attempt. The prediction was made on the Dick Maurice show, a talk show originating in Los Angeles that is aired on Atlanta station WTBS. On the tape, Ms. Rand, ofLos Angeles, said, "the last few days of March or early April" would be "a crisis time" for Reagan. She also said there would be a "crisis time" for Reagan inJuly, although she did not specify what would happen. -AP 
The Senate played out the string on virtually doomed Democratic challenges to President Reagan's budget cuts yesterday while a key Republican declared "we have an opportunity to win" in the Democratic-controlled House, too. Rep. Delbert Latta of Ohio, ranking Republican on the House Budget Committee, said out­numbered Republicans on the panel are "definitely and completely committed to the prt;sident's package." With the end of a week-long Senate debate in sight, Democratic liberals began lining up to cast what they acknowledged would be futile votes against a measure that would force S87 billion in cuts over three years. Senate Republicans, rushing tO do the president's bidding, defended the cuts as historic. "We're trying to reverse the trend in a drastic increase in federal spending," said Sen. Dan Quayle, R-Ind. In days of maneuvering leading up to the final Senate vote, outnumbered Democrats forced Republicans to stand up and vote to reaffirm cuts in social programs. But they failed time after time, as Republicans backed the president. 
-AP 
Thai Prime Minister Prem Tinsulanonda appeared to be winning the battle of the air waves yesterday against Gen. Sant Chipatima and other leaders ofthe bloodless coup. Thailand's popular king fired the rebel officers, and they decided not to venture beyond Bangkok where their forces were reported outnumbered 2/1. Prem, who fled the capital with the entire royal family after the coup started early Wednesday, continued to broadcast orders and appeals for sup­port from his military stronghold inKorat, 150 miles northeast of Bangkok. Although Sant's rebels controlled Radio Thailad in Bangkok, several stations owned by the navy and other government depart­ments brokeaway from the state network and relayed Prem's broad­cast from Korat. A bangkok rally called by Sant also fizzled when only about 1-,000 people showed up. Some were there for a kite show scheduled for the same time, and others carried transistor radios broadcating messages from Prem. -AP 
Tank, rocket and artillery fire battered Christian 
neighborhoods in east Beirut for several hours yesterday, closing the 
international airport and, by one account, killing dozens of civilians. 
Zahleh, a Roman Catholic city 30 miles to the east, was under Syrian 
tank fire for the second day in what the Syrian command said was an 
attempt to stop the rightist Christians from strengthening their militia 
base. A shaky cease-fire, interrupted by sniper fire across the "Green 
Line" separating the Moslem and Christian sectors ofthe capital, took 
hold by nightfall after a plea by President Elias Sarkis. In Tel Aviv, 
Israeli radio quoted deputy Defense Minister Mordechai Zippori as 
saying Israel "will not stand quiet if there is a threat to the Christian 
community" in Lebanon. Former Lebanese President Camille 
Chamoun, who now heads an alliance ofrightist Christian militias and 
parties, issued a statement calling on the United Nations to send in 
troops to take over from the Syrians, who have been here as 
peacekeepers since a ce_ase-fire in the 1975-76 civil war. -AP 
Anlid Warnings that the Soviet Union has acted within the past two days to strengthen its ability to move into Poland, Vice President George Bush announced yesterday that the United States will send new food aid to the troubled country. After a meeting with Deputy Prime Minister Mieczyslaw Jaglieski, Bush said the administra­tion plans to sell to Poland dairy products, inclding dried milk and butter. at concessionary prices. He did not say what other assistance is being contemplated but oher officials had said Wednesday the ad­ministration may agree to allow Poland to defer repayment on its 52.5 billion to the U.S. government. The administration already has per­mitted Poland to defer S88 million in debt repayments. The concern over Soviet activity along the Polish border was raised by Secretary of Defense Caspar Weinberger in testimony before the Senate Budget Committee. Without elaborating, and in response to a question he apparently misunderstood, Weinberger also told the panel the U.S. is "taking...steps" to meet the threat. -AP 
Windy and wann today with a 4o percent chance of rain. Highs in the mid to upper 70s. An 80 percent chance ofscattered showers and thunderstorms developing tonight. Lows Friday night in the upper 40s to low 50s. Windy and cooler tomorrow with showers and thunderstorms ending. High in the low 60s. -AP 
A curiouslyDomerwar 
Mr. Reagan is still expected at commencement ceremonies May I 7, according to the Registrar's Office, healed wound and all. His appearance raises questions about how much of the protest, promised by various campus groups, can still be expected in the aftermath of his brush with violence in Washington on Monday. A New York Times story on Tuesday reported that the assasination attempt already was helping both the GOP 
and the popularity of the President, and there is no 
reason to expect it will not have a similar mellowing 
effect on the opponents ofhis strategy in El Salvador, a 
group primarily responsible for the promised protests. cumbent had won by a plurality of 20,000 vote~. 
The war in El Salvador is a curiously do~er war. First, Duarte, naturally, called for a protest, whereupon he 
there is the matter of resisten.ce to intervention on the was courtesly picked up in a limousine owned by the 
part ofmany clerics and officials in the Catholic Church. incumbant and shown the error ofhis ways. This lesson 
Much of the Church's concern stems from a political cost him broken cheekbones (his face still sags from the 
reaction to the slaying of Archbishop Romer.o. Like injury) and a smashed skull (he still wears a metal plate 
their secular brothern opposed to U.S. -interference in El in the back ofhis head). So much for your primer in the 
Salvador, these people see the struggle as an uprising of machinery ofLatin American politics. 
guerrilJa peasants against the ruling junta, supported by At any rate, Duarte was reportedly scheduled to be 
the fourteen families who control the country. This was executed when Fr. Hesburgh received a frantic call 
the perception Romero promoted and one gener.ally ac-from Duarte's brother, who told Fr. Hesburgh of the 

cepted by the politically vocal in the Church. Notre Dame, in their offi~ial stance, a stance never 
articulated but demonstrated through such symbolic gestures as choos­ing a commencement speaker, holds no truck with this point of view. Although various social concerns groups have plastered the campus with posters, or­ganized a _mass walk to remember Romero on his death, and bought full page ads in The Observer, their re­quests to the administration to remember the Sal­vodorians by canceling Reagan's appearance have been largely ignored. 
But there are reasons for that, and they may not all be political. First, the cast of characters in this war is heavily domer. 
We have 

Secretary of State Alexander Haig, a student here for a year before going to West Point. Add Richard Allen, director of national security (Henry Kissinger's old job with less power than Kissinger once had), and a 1957 graduate. 
And, of course, the coup de grace (as opposed to coup de tat which, in any case, may just as well apply) is thatJose Duarte, the head ofthe junta ruling El Salvador, is a 1955 graduate ofNotre Dame and a "protege" ofFr. Hesburgh's, according to the New York Times. In an 
article that appeared in that paper Tuesday, Hesburgh is 
quoted as saying that Duarte is a tough guy who 
wouldn't sacrifice his principles. This quality, tough­
ness, is a rather handy one to have in Latin America. 
When Mr. Duarte first attempted to enter the politi­
cal big time of Latin America he met with a bit of 
resistance. He was running for president against the in­
cumbent and, early in the evening, the radio reports had 
him well in the lead. Shortly thereafter, the stations 
mysteriously went off the air. In the morning the sta­
plight of his former student. Hesburgh, according to The Times, began a campaign to have him released 
which eventually included 
the presidents of Venezuala 
and Panama, then Secretary 
ofState Henry Kissinger and 
the Vatican. Duarte was 
released. So much for your 
primer in global politics. 
Nice work, Ted. 
And so we come the full 
circle back to Fr. Hesburgh 
and the invitation he has ex­
tended to the President of 
the United States, Ronald 
Reagan, the man who once 
played the Gipper in a movie 
and the man who is helping 
out Hesburgh's former stu­
dent with advisers, weapons 
and hints ofmore support to 
come. It is, in a sense, his 
way of paying back a favor 

and, at the same time, ingratiating himself to a new ad­
ministration. It is clearly in President Reagan's interest 
to attend the Notre Dame commencement. The people 
who will be listening to him are his kind ofpeople: Solid 
Americans, generally Republican and conservative. If 
he stands to lose some support among liberal Catholics 
for his interest in El Salvador, he can just as easily gain 
Catholic urban support by associating himself with 
Notre Dame, which is still political magic in the large 
cities. 

These fun facts about El Salvador and the Notre Dame 
connection arouse interest in Mr. Reagan's planned 
visit, but add to them the dramatic dimension ofanoth­
er public appearance of the President -perhaps his 
first since the shooting incident -and the theatrical 
dimension which will ensue when the Gipper/Pat 
O'Brien connection capitalizes on Mr. Reagan's Gipper­
like real-life heroics, and you have a commencement 
made in Heaven. Suffice it to say that with the 
theatrics exhibited by the dome and the religious fervor 
underlying the malcontents, we may see, come May 17, 
a slice ofboth. 

Design Editor ............................. Mike Monk Design Assistants ................ Michele Dietz Kim Kohl Layout Staff....................... Don Rodriguez Mary EUen Ewen Stephen Abowd Typesetter ............................ Stephen Brown News Editor.............................. Lynne Daley Copy Editors ........................... Paula Groves T.J. Conley Sports Copy Editor............... Mike Ortman Typist ........................................... Mike Monk Systems Control ................... Bruce Oak)ey ND Day Editor........................ Megan Boyle SMC Day Editor ....................... Cece Baliles Ad Design ............................ Woody & Anne Photographer ............................... Anne Fjnk Guest Appearances ...................... The J~rks Ryan "Vanian" Ver Berkmoes Secundus & Friend MACandMax Rickety Dave Vanlansall  
The Observer (USPS 598 920l is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. Th1 Ob11rv1r is8ublished by the students of Notre arM and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $20 per year ($1 0 per semester) by writing Thl Observer, P.O. Box a. ~Jotre Dam I!, Indiana 46556 Second class postage p?.id, Notre Dame. Indiana 46556. Th1 Obs1rver is a member of the Associated Press. All reproductionrights are reserved  


THE place to be off-campus 

CAMPUS 
VIEW 
NOW RENTING FOR SUMMER ipecial low summer rates: I BEDROOM-$230 2 BEDROOM--$275 auailable June-August IS utilities paid. 
central air and heated pool 
171-1441 


Friday, April 3, 1981 -page 3
The Observer 

'Challenged' children 
DeBolt inspires WOW crowd 
By ANNEJANE DREGALLA 
StaffReporter 
Dorothy DeBolt energized a near· capacity crowd in Saint Mary's Car· roll Hall last evening as one of the concluding speakers of Women's Opportunity Week. 
Internationally prominent as humanitarian "miracle workers," Dorothy and Robert DeBolt are the parents of 20 children. Most people rcft•r to tht·se children as hand· kappt·d. but tht· Dt·bolts desnibt· them as "challt-ngt·d" and have com­mitted their lives to that challenge. 
The DeBolt family starred in two films, and served as the subject of a book published in 1974, all ofwhich have made them well-known for their unusual way oflift:. 
Before beginning her speech, Mrs. DeBolt begged the audience to re­examine their feelings toward the physically handicapped. She pointed to the fact that a large percentage of the American population is repulsed by the subject, and asked for a re· evaluation of these negative assess·, mcnts. 

Nobel winner terms brain a 'computer' 
By BETH ZANGMEISTER 
News Staff 
Nobel prize-winner Sir John C. Eccles, speaking to a crowd of 200 last night in the Library auditorium, stated that although the brain is "necessary" for exist­t•nce, it is not "sufficient." 
The 1963 winner of the Nobel Prize for Physiology and Medicine spoke on "The Self-Conscious Mind and the Meaning and Mystery of Personal Existence." 
According to tht· famed neurop­hysiologist, the materialistic ex­planation of personal existence cites the physical machinery of the brain as being responsible for the 
sense of being. In opposing this 
theory. Eccles claimed that the 
brain is merely a wonderful "computer" under. the control ofa divinely created "programmer," the soul. 
Eccles concluded by expressing his belief in the continued exist­ence of the soul. He said that al­though the "computer" is destroyed at death, we continue to "go on with self-identity." Admit­ting that such things were "beyond all scientific understanding," he said, "the divine Providence which gave us life can be trusted to see that the best happens in another life." 

• • .Commissioners 
continuedfrom page I 
Peter Newton, a sophomore from Andover, Mass. will be in charge ofsponsoring concerts and promoting shows in Stepan Center as the nt·wly appointed concert commissioner. 
The Services Commission is now headed hy sophomoreJohn Kelly, 
and tht· new Movies Commissioner is junior Katie Bigane. 
Several nt·w commissions added include the Special Projects, 
Homecoming, and Publicity commiltees. The Special Projects Com­
missiont·r is Kevin Conroy, a junior who served as Executive Coor­
dinater this year. This committee will include all events which do. not 
fit anywht·re dse, su<.·h as the Country Rock Jam. 
The Homecoming committee intends to make Homecoming a 
major event like An Tostal and Mardis Gras. Junior Betsy Sheriden will 
serve as commissioner. 
Tht· new office of publicity, created to centralize all publicity for 
Student Union events, will be run hy ex-Services coordinater junior 
Mike Method. 
Studt·nt Union comptroller for 19H 1-112 is junior Matt Barrett, who 
served as a commission comptroller this past year. ,r 
an 
SUNDAY MASSES AT SACKED HEART CHURCH 
campusministry 
8:18 pm Saturday Rev. Robert Griffin, C.S.C. 
9:00 am Sunday Rev. James Shilts, C.S.C. 
10:30 am Sunday Rev. John Dunne, C.S.C. 
12:18 pm Sunday Rev. John Fitzgerald , C.S.C. 7:18pm Vespers Rev . John Dunne, C.S.C. 

She explained that her life with "challenged" children stems from her gratitude for the unearned bless­ings of her life, including a strong, healthy family and marriage. Though many consider her lifestyle unique, she emphasizes that it really is not; the DeBolts "are just a little bit noisier " about it. This, Mrs. DeBolt said, is what has sparked her interest. People have begun to emulate their lifestyle, a lifestyle based on "restoring the birth-right ofdignity." 
The DeBolts' basic message for all peoples is to take stock of what you have, not what you do not have. Mrs. 
DeBolt implored each person to look past what is missing and look for what is there. She explained that she and her husband arc "the proudest parents in the world." They see "beyond the externalities to the magnificent human spirit that resides in each and everyone" of their "challenged" children. She views her children as inspiring and humorous. She condemns the ten­dency not to laugh because ofa fear that to do so would offend. She refuses to sanction pity. As a result of this, her children are full of laughter and a strong sense ofself-worth. 
It is due to the strength of her children's spirits that Mrs. DeBolt at­tacks the American Foster Home sys­tem, which, she claims, "stinks to high heaven." She commits herself to "working to change this rotten system which destroys far more children's lives than it professes to serve, until we have no breath left." 
Mrs. DeBolt credits much of the path of her life to God and feels that "everytime I have had the good sense to listen I am enriched. Don't think with your mind, think with your stomach; when it feels good deep down--do it." Mrs. DeBolt concluded by posing the question: "How can any of us who have been given so much through no virtue of our own, ignore those who don't have these blessings through no fault oftheir own." She then grateful­
ly acknowledged the audience for "coming together as strangers" and ridding themselves of the "pseudo­sophisticated facade" we all possess. 
In otht·r words, she thanked the audience for crying. 
Sirjohn C. Eccles, Nobel Prize winner, addresses a capaci~)' crowd in the library auditorium. (Photo by Anne Fink) 

11~ II~ 
mEETING 
~ if, ~ 
Sunday April 5th 
7:00 m LaFortune L!ttle Theatre 
CHEERLEADER CANDIDATES 
,______ta"\ .-"'\'ot .~6-et 

~~· te~~~----------~ 
all application forms and insurance 
verification must be on file in Student 
Activities Office by Tuesday, April 7, 4:00pm 
in order to participate in tryouts. 


OOMMURIOATION ARTS at NOTRE DAMI 
· Practical skill-oriented communications courses designed for teachers and for prospective professionals. M.A. may be acquired in four summers, or in two summers and the connecting academic year. .Also open to nondegree students. 11 day session 
from June 23 to July 7. aa day session from July 8 to .Au&ust s. Courses also available for entire 33 day period. Special' feature of 1981 session: An all-clay Workshop on Writing and Designing Publications. Other 1981 courses: The .Art of the Cinema, Television Production, American Short Fiction, Seminar in the Teaching of Short Fiction, Introductory and .Advanced Photography,· •on · riction Writing, and IS Propositions about Mass Media, Film as Insight, Creative Writing, Design, Television 
in American Life, Publishing, Public Relations, Independent Projects. Write 
Prof. Donald P. Costello, Chairman, Department of Communication Arts, University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame, IN 46556. 
't. t.e.. 

-------------------------------------~~~~~~~~~~~~--------~ 
The Observer Friday, April3, 1981 -page 4 
World worries 
Miscue endangers Haig's rep 

The controversy over actions of Secretary ofState Afexander M. Haig Jr. after President Reagan was shot has -touched off concern and criticism abroad and could un­dermine his authority as he prepares for his first extensive foreign mis­sion. 
This surfaced in private com· 
ments of officials and in media 
treatment ofHaig's statement, "As of 
now, I am in control here in the 
White House." He made the state· 
ment after the attempt on Reagan's 
life Monday. 

It came after the naming of Vice 
President George Bush to head a 
crisis management team, a move 
widely seen as a rebuff to Haig. 
Some Europeans also have been troubled by the fact that foreign policy pronouncements came from a widening number-of Washington officials, and not Haig alone as he is seen to have wanted it. 
Haig has a substantial backlog of goodwill in Western Europe where his hitch as North Atlantic Alliance commander gave him an intimate understanding ofEuropean attitudes 
and concerns. 

But his image among some Arabs in the Persian Gulf on the eve of his Middle East trip which begins today has evidently been tarnished. 
The concern, significantly, has not reached the point of public state­ments by officials. Arab officials declined to discuss Haig publicly, insisting on anonymity, but some said his image was hurt by his con­flict with Bush and his statements af. ter the Reagan shooting. 
One official of the United Arab 
Emirates said: "We have yet to know 
for certain if Haig is the U.S. policy­
maker or if he'll end up beng an er­
rand boy for Bush or the American 
defense minister." 

The official Kuwaiti thought is that the events made U.S. ability to muster a strong policy on gulf security highly questionable. 
In Saudi Arabia. sources close to the royal family said Haig will be "given the cold shoulder" when he visits there. 
The independent Lebanese daily AI Bayraq said, "Alexander Haig, af. ter the controversy over his powers in which he waved his resignation and then withdrew it, does not come to the Middle East the same power­ful man capable ofmaking decisions, 
especially  in  matters  of  foreign  
policy  and  sometimes  internal  
policy."  

In Cairo, the media reported the Haig controversy without comment. The Egyptian minister of state for foreign affairs, Butros Ghali, noted: "We never discuss this. This is an in­ternal affair." 
In West Germany, the newspaper GeneralAnzetger said: "Bonn fears a leadership vacuum in Washington." 
The paper said the government and political parties see Haig as "the most important guarantor for a coor­dinated global policy which takes European interests and ideas into ac­count." 

PINOCCHIO'S PIZZA PARLOR 
8-1 Opm $1 . 50 pitchers of beer 
and. emmons 
$.30 mugs ... 
every night of the week 

,-~--------------------, 
I $.50 OFF SMALL PIZZA I 
~---------------------~ 
: $.75 OFF MEDIUM PIZZA I 
~---------------------~ 
I $1.00 OFF LARGE PIZZA 1 
'----------------------~ 

ND WOmEN GRADS RETURN ..._""~"~~ 
,(\,."'~\

~\\)\'•~\)~\ _ b~nking executive, ~\\ ~~ engineer, l~wyer, m~rri-ed \ot ~ couple & soci~l service minister offer their views & respond to: 
How they've combined career, m~rri~ge & f~mily 
Adv~nt~ges & dis~dv~nbges of being 
a wom~n at ND 
Practical advice for the N D student today 

Saturday 1:00pm April 4 Libraray Auditorium 
tefteshments following 
continuedfrom page I 

such jokes or inquiries with a strong statement that "the University is doing me a favor by letting me stay here. All I have to do is turn out the lights and I get a free room." Thou@ Lobdell's room in the Field House is the poorest facility ofall the student custodians and he must shower in Cavanaugh, he remains content. He lives a few steps from his studio (in the field area ofthe arena), thus ena· hling him to avoid the perils ofSouth 
Bend weather. 

There aren't many ND students who can take visitors to their places 6f residence similiar to those previously mentioned, or those who, as the four students who live in the CCE, can point out tbe sun roof, the flowering plants or the balcony and boast ofthe "comfortable, relax· ing and beautiful enviroment" in which they live. In a similar position are the two student residents of the ACC who have raquetball courts, a skating rink and an indoor track down the hall from their room. 
Those student custodians, or 
coordinators as they are referred to 
in the CCE, have more demanding 
jobs than some ofthe other students. 
In fact their residence actually in· 
volves performing another job. Dr. 
Peter Lombardo, of the CCE ex· 
plains that "what the kids do is ac· 
tually run the place" after staff and 
oftice hours. Ihere are four students 
living in the CCE, each charac· 
terized by Lombardo as "very 
reliable and conscientious." 
Custodians 
Sylvester Johnson, one of these four, listed three basic reasons for applying for the CCE job. First, it was a chance to help his parents finan­cially. Second, he wanted the privafy of a single room, though having three others around "cuts down on the lonliness." And third, he enjoys the feeling of being off campus without having_ to worry about crime or transortation hassles. 
Mike Danch, events director at the ACC said that he hired George Christi, a medical 'student, as a stu· dent custodian after he came down from the stands and assisted the physicians ar{d the Red Cross with a heart attack victim at the IU game last semester. Danch felt that kind of expertise would be a good thing to 
have around the ACC. He said the job of the two student custodians at the ACC is "not a difficult one, but an important job for us." The ACC stu­
dents also perform the function of checking ID's at the door and working the Issue room. 
christi said ofhis job. "I had never met so many interesting people before working here." He com­mented, "My room is great. It has a shower and tub, nice furniture and also a close proximity to the athletic facilities." 
All these students live in some of the most unlikely buildings on campus and really enjoy it. Applica­tions for these jobs can be obtained through the Financial Aid office. 
• • • Assault 
continuedfrom page I 

two other Notre Dame students. The man, later identified as Christopher Whitlock, shouted to the passing students, saying something similar to,"Okay, big man. I've got some­thing for you." The students con­tinued toward their car, and Whitlock followed. As they reached the south quad, Whitlock grabbed the back ofone ofthe student's jack­ets and asked,"What are you, some· thing special? Do you know karate? I know that too." The student said, "Don't touch me," at which time 

1officer . what had happened, and !Whitlock was arrested in the C· 3 1 parking lot. He did not have the knife in his possession, but later, upon returning to the scene with Security Officers, one of the students found 
the k'life under a parked car. 
"Security did a hell of a job," one 

ofthe students stated. 
Assistnt Director of Security Rex 

Rakow explained that "Alcohol was 
detected on one man, but neither 
appeared to be intoxicated." Rakow 
also said that Sutherland, while in 
custody, said that he "was looking 
for his partner" and named Whit· 
lock. 
Rakow said that one or both ofthe 

assailants were "possibly involved in 
other incidents on campus" but 
declined to elaborate. 
Whitk•ck reached into his coat pocket, drew a knife. and respondeu, "Do you want to be Ronald Reagan?" 
Whitlock reportedly ordered the two to walk to his car and kept one student walking about ten feet in front ofhim, calling him back occas­sionally, while the other walked beside him. As they walked acrvss the south quad, tpe student beside 
Whitlock said, "If you want my wal­
let, take it," but Whitlock pulled a 
wad ofbills from his pocket saying,"! 
got money. We'll just keep walking 
to my car." 
In front of the Snite museum, one ofthe students was able to flag down a Notre Dame Security vehicle. The Security officer checked Whitlock's identification for the golf-cart inci­dent, but released him. Once in the Securitv truck, the students told the 
Features Save the Children 
L
ike millions ofothers, I wish to God I knew what I could do to help stop the murders among the Bla~k children ofAtlanta. I wish I didn't feel so helpless about preVl'nting more deaths. I have considert:d traveling down to Atlanta, and helping out witt! the investiga­tions, hut I'm a rather heavy-footed fool to bt· doing police work. I'd probably he arrested fo getting in the way. So I stay in ~outh Bend, following the headlines, praying at Mass, and feeling helpless. 
( >nt· would have to he monstrous not to care about 
t'hildren. I care a great deal about children. I work with 

on the radio. I have often wanted to do something to 
help Black children, hut I've never known how. Black 
children growing up in the ghettos have special needs, 
but l'vt· never known how they might need me. I've 
read in tht· papers about what happens to Black 
children growing up in the ghettos. I've thought: if I 
went to the ghetto, I'd he some big, stupid character 
that nobody would understand. I'd be in the way, or I'd 
be destroyed by some street-wise kid who wouldn't 
give a damn about my wanting to help children. 
Being middle-aged and ordained gets in the way wht·n you want to reach out and say: "I'd like to be friends. In the dining hall for example, at a table where Black students arc t•ating together, I would like to sit down and talk, without feeling like an outsider. It would kill rnt· to know that Hlack students were nudging each 
otht·r and saying: "Who the hell is this? There would be a spt·cial kind ofgoodness in having a meal with Black studt·nts, having a little ofthe familiarity with them that they have with one another. But wht·n you sit down at a 
tabk, and you have a strong sense ofnot being needed, and of being politely tolerated, you become very un­comfortabk. I think: some ofthe best friendships I have are with Black students; but my Black friendships are pt·rsonal and individual, one on one. I've never been given a membership card to belong to the dub. I wouldn't know who to aply to, for membership in the dub. 
Ont· fears embarrassing himselfor his friends when ht· says: "I like Black People. As soon as you say it, you think: "Oh, damn, I'm probably guilty ofstereotyping. You're saying that because people arc'Biack, then they're likt·ablc. Your praise is stereotyping, and it is 
condescending. Maybe so; but whatever the cltlmsiness 
of the language I usc, I like the Black people I've met, 
and the Black People I sec. I even like the angry Blacks 
I've heard, though it so'unds like radical chic to say so. 
All the experiences I've had with Black People make me 
want to know them better. I'm held back by my own 
shyness, and a fear that Blacks may be indifferent to 
knowing me. 

Someone objects: when you talk that way, you seem 
to be expecting Blacks to be different from other 
people. I expect Blacks to be themselves, that's all. 
Whoever they think ofthemselves as being when they 
idt·ntify themselves as Blacks, these arc the people I am 
anxious to know. Ifthey say, my blackness doesn't mat­
ter, I'm satisfied with that. If they say, blackness is my 
special beauty, then I answer that I have never doubted 
that Black is Beautiful. There is a truth that Black writers 
grieve over or celebrate; there is a rhythm to life heard 
in the music out of Harlem; there is a dignity in human 
beings represented by Black Leadership in the Civil 
Rights Movement; there is a Black experience different 
in its pain from any hardship known by fisherman en­
dangered by the sea offthe gray, stone coast of Ir~land. 
The closest I come to the special grace of Black People 
in America as they arc at home with one another is the 
sight of Black students playing Bill Cosby to one anoth­
er at a dining hall table; or sometimes, on a Sunday in 
Nt:w York I meet a Black family, sweetly solemn and 
reserved, on their way to church. Not having the right 
to intrudt· upon any person's privacy,! wish sometimes 
that I were invited to join with those students in their 
meal. I wish that the church which the young family is 
attending were my church. Even if I were to follow 
them to their church, I would still be an outsider. It 
leaves you with a helpless feeling, being an outsider. 
I wish I knew a way ofhelpingdown in Atlanta. Those 
deaths arc the saddest crime ofour generation, a 
slaughter ofthc innocents as though Herod or Hitler 
were engineering some lethal project ofgenocidal ex­
termination. I don't know how to help. But I know there 
is a sickness ofbigotry and racial hatred in our society; 
with those killings in Atlanta, that sickness has reached 
its ultimate perversion in its violence against the lives of 
the young. 

One feels so helpless in the presence ofevil. One also 
feels helpless in the presence ofindiffcrencc. Maybe 
helplessness is just a mood you have when you arc 
middle-aged and ordained, and you finally realize that 
despite your dreams, you're never going to do a thing to 
improve the world. Least ofall, you arc never going to 
pt~rsuadc the members of the world to put their arms 
around each other and recognize one another as brot­
hers and sisters in a family established by God, to be 
similar and to be different in the ways that they are His 
children and give Him glory. 



married to an economy version ofDudley Moore who runs a sex dinic for bored housewives. On ont· hand she is scripted as a tough-talking f~igid·type professional, but in other s~;cncs we see hn falling all o':cr
Everything 
her slimy, womanizing husband. Such defects in charactnization not
Trivia AnsUJers 
only confuse but also anger the audience as they continually see con· 
vienience acting which is similar to that well developed talent usually seen in most pre·school Christmas pagcnts whereby the actors con­
about Ireland... 
S
t;artlng today, and continuing for the rest of the semester, the 
T
W<) distinguished scholars in Irish tinually change character to fit the situation rather then t·hanging thetrivia quiz answers will appt·ar the day after the quiz appears. 
studies will speak on campus tomor­
situation to fit the character. row as part ofa day-long symposium on This is, in part. a humanitarian gesture. Many people have com· 
Several faces in the film arc recognizable from commercials and Irish history and Irish literature. 
mt'ntcd that tht·y tend to forget or lose the questions by the time 
most arc neighbors of Davis'. Intcrt'stingly, although Davis expends Emmet Larkin, from the University of the nt·xt quiz rolls around. Also, since there is no longer acontest 
much energy in sexual pursuit, he chooses to live in an old pt·oplc's Chicago, will talk at 10 a.m. on "FenianismInvolved, there is rt"ally no need to withhold them for any length 
apartment building. His only reason that Icould dist·ern for living with and the Church oflreland: 1858-1870." 
oftime. 
the elderly was so that the writers could usc several jokt·s about Professer Larkin is one ofthe world's Bere arc the answers w yesterday's trivia quiz on Eric Clapton: 
crippled old ones-always a gold mine ofyucks, leading authorities on Irish history; among I. Tht: last Yardbirds record released In America to feature 
Rose Marie should have retired from acting rather than appear in his best-known works is a biography ofClapton was "For Your Lt>ve," on which Eric played rhythm 
this mess. Although prominently billed, the former sharp·tongut·d James Larkin, the Irish labor leader.
guitar. 
secretary ot'Tbe Dick Van Dyke Show appears for little mon· than The seC<)nd speaker on the program is2, After leaving the Yardbirds, Eric joinedJohn Mayall's 
three minutes. During those three minutes, sht· commands hl·r two Vivian Mercier, from the University of fllucsbrt·akcrs. 
sons to tic up Davis and his boss. There is absolutlcy NO rt·a~on fi1r her California, Santa Barbara. Professor Mer­:\. Tht· hit single featured on Clapton's solo album recorded to tic them up, and worse yet all that this scene snve~ to produce is anduring the time bctwe~.;n Blind Faith and Derek and the Dominos 
was ''After Midnight." 
cier will talk at II: I'i a.m. on "Religious 
excuse for Davis to come into dose contact with tht· shapely actrt·ss Revival and Literary Revival: Anglicism in 
and expose massive yards ofskin. Overall, tht· women appearing in
4. The loosely-organized, sometimes-nonexistent band thllt Nineteenth-Century Ireland," Professor 
this film arc exploited, exposed, and demeaned. A large portion ofthe Band. 
Clapton was the original lead guitarist with was tht· Plastic ()no Mercier has written widely about Irish 
humor is devoted to locker room snct·rs hy Davis and Italians at rear literature, and his book Tbe Irisb Comic 
ends.
'i. (a) The other two mt:mbers ofCream were jack Bruce and Tradition has become a standard critical 
The only people who enjoyed the movit· were a gaggll' ofatloll's· text. His most recent work is a study ofGinger Baker; (h) the other three members ofBlind Faith were cent females who were reduced to giggles cverytimt· Davis exposedStevie Win wood, Ginger Bllkt·r, and Ri~h Grech; (c) the Samuel Beckett. 
another one of his chest hairs.
"unofficial" member of Derek and the Dominos invited to tour The morning talks will be followed by 
This movie has nothing going for it. Some movies are so had tht·y art· an afternoon panel discussion, "Politics, with them was Duane Allman. 
funny. This nne is so bad you arc sick. It is atlvist•d you takt· a hag w tht· Literature and Religion in Ireland," begin­6. The two conct•rts Clapton performed from mid-1971 until theatre so ifyou do not get sick, you can wear it OVt'f your head to
1~74 wert: contained in the albumsTbe Concert for Bangia Desb ning at 2:30p.m. On the panel will be 
avoid recognition.
(at T Nt·w York's Madison Square Garden) and.E'rtc Clapton's 
Rainbow Concert (at the Rainbow Theatre In London). 
Professors Larkin and Mercier; Associate 
Dean Robert Burns ofthe Notre Dame his­
7. llis "comeback" album was46/ Ocean Boulevard. 
Wnlets note: Each week's revrew rs an·ompamed by a Pat 
tory department; Enda McDonagh, profes­
Byrnes rllus/ralton that corresponds to the film's overall qualtty 
H. Tht· 45 that Eric released which contained two songs, each sor oftheology at Notre Dame; and
ofwhich made it into the Top 40 separately, was Gregory Schirmer, assistant professor of
"Prornist:s"/"Watch Out for Lucy," rekased late In 1978. Eqglish at Notre Dame.
I.J. The husband-and-wife team that Eric once played for was The conference is sponsored by the Col­
Delaney and Bonnie and Friends. 
;·~:;'~"'Jj 1d
lege ofArts and Letters, the Department of
I 0. The only numbt•r one single that Eric Clapton was ever in­
History, and the Department ofEnglish. All
volved with, as a solo or with a group, was his 1974 solo h~t ''I 
To be avoided A real snoozer As exciting Worth seeing, Not to be
events will take place in room 120 Hayes­
Shot the Sheriff." 
at ali costs as knitting a solid effort missed, a dassic 
Healy. The public is invited.
Tim Neely 
'l. '!. "'.' ••• '.C. 'Ill ill' .... 



Editorials 
Friday, April3, 1981 -page 6 
Doonesbury 
Digger has no room to talk 
Dear Editor: 
I am writing in regards to the television coverage of the finals of the N. I. T. Tournament which the · University of Tulsa, with class, determination, great coaching, 
and overall great playing captured 
the Championship, as well as 
Most Valuable Player Award. 
Digger Phelps should never be allowed to call any sports event, nor should his two cohorts. There are other colleges.in-this United States besides Syracuse and Notre Dame. The citizens of Tulsa, Oklahoma, are outraged over the over the constant ridicule and smart remarks regarding the Tulsa University team. Who does Digger Phelps think he might be and where was his team? Does he not realize that all the people in Oklahoma are just as proud of our basketball team and coach as are the people in New York. At least, we have a team and coach to be proud of. 
I would hope that he never be allowed to even sit in on future 
N.I.T. games around the broadcasting table, nor the other two unknown persons who were such authorities. I feel very deep­ly that your entire broadcasting team owes the University of Tulsa, its players and coach a public apology on "national television" for the snide and nasty remarks your men were allowed to make. 
The University of Notre Dame has just cause to be very embar­rassed on behalf of their "coach" and his narrow-minded attitude, and if I was on their board, I would think twice before I would let such a person be the mentor of 
P.O.BoxQ 
the young men that comt: to Notre Dame. I, as a mother of three sons, would never permit my sons to be coached by such a person. 
The University of Notre Dame, I am sure, will notice a sizeable drop in their financial contribu~ tions from this area of the United States. 
Of course, the end result spoke for itself, and even then, your three "nerds" did not have the courtesy to give the University of Tulsa any credit. 
Barbara J. Armijo Tulsa, Oklahoma 
Noon Mass overcrowded 
Dear Editor: 
Why can't there be a daily, 
noon-day Mass in Sacred Heart 
Church for students? 
The over-crowding by students 
in the basement chapel at the 
12:10 Mass for staff is ridiculous." The 12:10 Mass in the basement chapel is supposed to be for employees, but the employees who wish to attend Mass at noon are crowded out by students. One of the great advantages of working at Notre Dame is the op­portunity to attend daily Mass, and that was the original purpose of the 12:10 Mass in the basement chapel. 
It seems as if the students are crying out for a noon Mass by their attendance at the ­employees' Mass, especially during Lent. The II :30 Mass in Sacred Heart Church must not be convenient for those students who have classes at that time, according to the vast number who crowd the basement ch< pel. 
When there is a big 1empty church right above, it seems in­credible that the s' 


Mass must be so overcrowded. Some employees who wish to tend their Mass at 12:10 denied this opportunity because of the overcrowding by students, because some only have one-half hour for lunch and, with the great crowds at Communion, etc., they can not make it in time on their lunch time. 
It is beyond comprehension that at a Catholic university there is not a student Mass in Sacred 
Commencement provides challenge 
Dear Editor: 
The recent controversy concerning the appropriateness of having President Reagan and Pat O'Brien at the commence­ment ceremony, while worthy of serious discussion, should per­haps be only a catalyst for deeper questioning. Such thought might take the form of asking what should be the role of the com­mencement ceremony. Should it be a showcase for the University (perhaps the reason for Reagan's and 0' Brien's attendance), a pat on the back for the students, or a deeply felt thanks to those (parents, friends, professors) who have made the college experience possible and rewarding. 
While all of these factors might be part of the overall concept, the main focus should be on the fact that this event is the last oppor­tunity for the University to chal­lenge its students. The charge to the class, while perhaps cliche ridden, is a valuable instrumen<, especially at a Christian univer­sity. If we are to positively affec< the world, we must constantly question our behavior toward our fellow human beings and the planet on which we all live. The challenge is there for us to see, but not if we are blinded by dis­plays of self-praise. 
Patrick M. Brunner Class of/981 South 

Editor's Note: The volume of mqil received regarding the graduation invitation extended fO President Reagan was heavy, to say the least. In the week follow­ing the announcement, mail ran approximately 10-1 against the Reagan VISit. Following our editorial entitled" Why Reagan," 
mail flowed  in  unanimously  in  
favor of the  visit.  For the time  
being,  we  are  temporarily  

suspending debate on the issue, and we wish ·the President a fast and full recovery. 
A >fAR fi<0/>1 MY.IJ?IIIIAT IS 7HIS?A M!Ntne AGo, 
YOU COIJLJJN'TrrTM4R­RJf.l)SOON tmJGH. 
" 
I KJIJII./, I /(}J(}M/, 8IfTI 7HINK ttE 8el'!l:R GeTU5EP 70 711&IWA RflST, !»>T'!aP. 7HIS 15 A816 
us. 
atAY,; YOU'!!£ KJfill L£T5 7ll/(£ 7115QV& 5!EP ATA 7/Me.. 

Do you have an opinion? The Observer Editorials page will feature a weekly viewpoint column which will address topics ran­ging from issues on pus campus to problems facing today' s world. Every Friday a question will be offered for comment and all responses must be submitted to the Editorial Department by noon 
Wednesday ofthe following week. Please keep submissions to less 
than /00 words, and we reserve the right to edit. 
This week's question: Do you feel the Reagan administration should send military aid to the government of El Salvador? Deadline: noon Wednesday. 
Garry Trudeau 

Editorial Board and Department Managers 
Editor-in-Cbief.........................................]ohn McGrath SMC Executive Editor .....................Mary Agnes CareyBox Q, -''iotre Dame, if.i 4655(, Managing Editor......................................Tomjackman SMC News Editor ................................Cathy Domanico 
The Observer is· an indt·peudc!1t newspaf.>er published by the ~tudent~ of the PbotoEditor...................................................}ohn Macor
Executive News Editor ..............................Lynne Daley Umvers~ry ofNmre Dame~~; Lac and Sain• t,·fary's College It doe'> not necessaril:. 
News Editor.............................................Tim Vercellotti reflect me ?Obues of the admtnl.Stranon ot eaher msmur10n. The news ts reported Business Manager ....................................Rich Coppola
News Editor................................................. .John Higgins as accurarel;-and as ob}ecti,;el>· as possible. Editorials represent rhe opinion of a Controller....................................................... .}oe Multlur 
Senior Copy Editor ........................Mary Fran Callahan 
Advertising Manager......................................Mack Ellis 
majonry of_rhe Edirorial Board. Comn:entarie~, opmion", and letters are the vtews 
Sportsftditor .........................................Michael Ortman 
Production Manager ...................Ryan Vee Berkmoes
of rhetr amnors. Column spa·~e ts ava!lablc to all members of the communirv. and 
Features Editor..........................................Rick Hermida Circulation Manager ............. : .......... Tom MacLennan
the free expression of varving opmions on campus, through letters, is encou~aged. 

.-------------------------------------------------------------------------­
The Observer 
Friday, April 3, 1981 -page 7 
1 

Ego problems plague ND 
David Thomas Gotuaco 

At last, help for the bachelor Maxwell Glen and Cody Shearer 
WASHINGTON -Single men thinks dinner is supposed to look be mates may also be compelled American families wouldn't have care of ourselves isn't just a mat­
can be pathetic when it comes to like the picture on the package. to subscribe to the magazine and to go as far as the Tahitians, who ter of good consumerism. household chores. He doesn't bother with unit stack it next to Field and Stream. often raise the youngest male as a Men have always fallen into 
Many young friends stand out pricing and still likes Twinkies at But is a glossy magazine the houseboy. High schools might marriages because they couldn't as vivid examples of having been 25. answer to burnt eggs and also insist that both sexes take manage their lives. If more were overmothered and overschooled. Fortunately for such misfit wrinkled shirts, orjust part of it? home economics as a re4uired capable of domestic chores, One ac4uaintance, for example, singles, a new magazine will hit Lads needn't wait until their course. Some schools already re­fewer marriages might end up on simply throws out his dirty the news stands next month. New late 20s to find out. Fathers, for quire such courses as early as the rocks for lack of cooperation 
, clothes and charges new items on Man, a $2-monthly, will offer is example, should be less reluctant junhr high. around the house. dad's VISA card. readers tips on cooking, dating, about having their sons learn a 
Tired of being mocked, he no shopping, cleaning and redecorat­little "woman's work." Indeed, learning how to take Firld Nrwspaper Syndicate longer asks his roommate for ing. According to its New York ironing tips. While preparing for publisher, Mark Burman, 37, the 
three law firm interviews last magazine will be the "men's Cos­
month, he purchased several mopolitan!" 
white, $20 shirts at Brooks Brot­"We're going after the guy who 
hers and wore a new one each doesn't know what to do with the day. steak he's just purchased at the Another friend can't cook eggs market," said Burman, who 
without setting off the smoke added that the magazine wouldn't 
alarm in his apartment. We have to go far for stories. "My 
recently caught him trying to jam editor came in the other day with 
an uncut English muffin. a missing button on his shirt and 
No one can expect young he didn't know how to repair it. I American men to cook like the suggested he assign someone to White House chef. But has the na­write an article on the subject." tion reached new levels of practi­Whle even Burman concedes cal incompetence when one there shouldn't be a need for a friend asks another if it's safe to magazine such as New Man, the put a wooden spoon in boiling market seems ripe. water? According to the Census 
The younger generation's Bureau, more adult men are living ability to take care of itself is also alone than ever before. They're dubious when one of its members marrying later and divorcing rejects a condiminium offer be­more often. Not surprisingly, cause he thinks the dishwasher is New Man is geared to the profes­too complicated to operate. sionals among them. 
And have you been shopping Who knows? Maybe Mr. Bur­with a young, unmarried male man has found the all-purpose recently? He's an advertiser's handbook for the lonely bachelor : dream -a real compulsive at a time when everybody-even 
buyer. He reaches for expensive, preppies-seems to have one. name-brand instant foods and Overworked wives and would-
I have been disappointed by this every so often in the past, but enough has become too much. I am referring to the "jock men­tality," or at least to that old ego problem which seems to plague 4uitc a few of our student­athletes. My 4uestion in each and 
every case is, "just who do you think you are?" As a student­athlete, you arc simply that -a student-athlete: nothing really more, nor for that matter less. Whence, therefore, comes this notion of "God-like"superiority over the rest of us "simple" Domers? Granted, you may have a particular talent,-God-given, no less -but that certainly 
doesn't make you any hetter than any one else! 
Most likely, this attitude is a residual from the ol' high school days; still, the reality of the present situation is going to catch 
up with each of you eventually. Not many of your arc going to make it to the pros; heck, not even most of you are going to make our first-string teams! But then, who cares? Yet, actually, we all do, though only to a certain extent: being friends of jocks or being for themost part jocks our­sci ves, we naturall sympathize and care for the successes and failures of our student-athletes. The only problem is, sometimes this care is understood, whether validly or naively, as adultory hero-worship. And sometimes our "heroes" become suckered into thinking they are Important, a "Special" Breed. Again, in a sense they are; and yet, in another very important sense, they can't expect to be: importance or spe­cialness in this case can only app­ly to the pro the proper use of one's skills,-if at all. But values 

are obviously a different story, and one that University jocks have to learn to develop and con­sider very carefully-especially since this place can, unfortunate­ly, "DO it to you." 
The point I am trying to em­phasize is that feelings of superiority are not justifiably transposable. For anybody, anyone. The jocks, particularly those in football and basketball, are most susceptible to this per­sonality disease: pernicious, in­flammatory egocentritis. Sometimes the case is terminal; fre4uently, symptoms show up most strongly in freshman year. The cure is the same: look around you and realize that you're no bet­ter -or worse -than anyone else. We're all e4ual because we're human. You may be supe­rior in a certain respect, but in­ferior in quite a few others. I may 
'And to all you jocks and nonjocks (throats)... don'tforget thatsize only makes a difference with respect to the heart ...' 
beat you at ping-pong, but that certainly doesn't make me any better than you. 
Remembered, values and talents make up your personality; mere talent does not make the man. 
I am appalled at the liberties which, unfortunately, not a few students-athletes have taken on is not hardly enough. A spirit of true concern is needed on this campus, and much apparent apathy results from worrying about selfish images and not about real, sensitive people. And somehow, guys seem to be a bit more notorious for this. 
Again, you know who you· 
the basis of this ego-disease. 
Without a doubt, real human 
emotions have been involved and 
even manipulated with in sad 
games of dishonesty and im­
maturity. And yes, that's exactly 
what they are: games people play. 
Meanwhile, I see a lot of tears.... 
The "Go-For-It" mentality is 
revolting; this pleasure principle has no place at Our Lady's. Notre Dame is a community of sincere individuals who all actually care more than they reveal. Unfor­tunately, the "need" to preserve one's "image" remains a veritable stumbling block for some, lest they become vul­nerable to the changes at ND which can only serve to help them 
grow. So why not let things be, and learn to take things like a MAN-the stoic Macho-Man is a Myth! 
You know who you are. If the shoe fits you, be honest with yourself and wear it. And if­you're smart-or wise-enough to "see" beyond the level of my intended simplicity, then hopeful­ly, you may learn something. And I mean learn it to the point of practice: saying "I can see that" are... and to all you jocks and non­jocks (throats) who have a num­ber of chips to be knocked off your shoulders, don't forget that size only makes a difference with respect to the heart. Just ask Ger­ry Faust. 
The period of Lent is the best time for all of us to learn to give up our ol' egos. Not just you jocks and non-jocks, but you girls, too: hopefully, you know who you are. We need to give up thinking about our selves in order to be more sensitive to the needs of others. Such a sensitivity demands that we think twice about what we say and do. Remember, honesty is still the best policy; all else is make­believe. 
There are too many egos tloat­ing around, and too few Real People. Remember the words of Ash Wednesday: "Dust we are, and to dust we shall return." Let's give up our egos for Lent. Let's be more sensitive and dis­
creet.  Let's  all  become  Real  
People.  
David Thomas  Gotuaco  is  a  

senior GP and Theology major residing in Keenan Hall. 
. .,..-,_ =.t.......,... 
~-1 

' 1 · ... 
I

The Obset:ver======== 
~c:)c:]l(3L~===============·=·'~============Fr=id=a=y,=A=p=ri=l=3,=1=9=8=l==p=a=g=e=8= 

Molarity 

J.skthePerresser\ FixingaWat;hingmachine: 


The Daily. Crossword 

413/81
©1981 by Chicago Tribune-N.Y. News Synd. Inc. 
All Riohts Reserved I WOND£'R WHAT Ya!~ 6JRLFRIE'ND MIG,HT SAY 


.Easy. All Y.ou need lS 2. Simpleted~ you find ineveryhouse. 

1 Pugilistic goddess punches 28 C'est­5 "Lollipop," (namely) for one 31 Garret 
9 Ensnare 32 Beethoven's 
13 Russian birthplace mounJain 33 Mail range receptacle 
14 Father: 37 Be filling 
comb. form 40 Sailing 16 Depend term 17 Black: pref. 41 River in 18 Firebug's France 
crime 42 Seattle's 19 Alanor Sound Robert 43 Fragrant 20 Examine compound 
by touch 44 TV awards 22 Decal 45 Dangers 24 Man,e.g. 49 Space 25 Goes in letters 
Thursday's Solution 

4/3/81 
GIFTS 
t~ 
I i II c 
~~ 
t ,
l 
Michael Molinelli 
Glf?LFRif'ND? ND WAY' oNL'r' 11\JTO TIAKJ CW1EN51DNAL 
WDH£1\J 
Atele}hme and 

the yellow pase'. 
50 Robbery at 
gunpoint 52 Depict 55 Revolution­
ary officer 
56 Smooth one's feathers 
58 Davenport's 
place 59 Copycat 60-voce 61 Applaud 62 Unites 63 Neighbor 
of Conn. 64 Clues 
DOWN 1 Checker 
move 2 Region 3 Kind of 
missile 4 Rowdy 
comedy 5 Flood 6 Tortoise's 
rival 7 Possessive 8 Those in 
favorof 9 Piece of land 
21 -and alas! 23 Feminine 
ending 26 Enormous 27 Miss Kett 28 Cut short 29 "Lorna-" 30 Nature or 
tube 33 Poultry tidbit 
34 Meaningless procedure 35 Comply with 
36 Attention· getting sounds 
38 Doubtful outcomes 39 Asparagus 
unit 43 Club member 45 Piffle! 46 Camping 
place for 
troops 47 Angered 48 Bakery 
workers 49 Taboos 51 College 
dance 52 Dog and cat 
10 German poet 53 Not home 
11 Viper  54 Sounds  
12 Bose and  from a  
Bartlett  Pekinese  
15 Medical  57 Schedule  
trainee  letters  

t 
t t 
t 
t 
t

tea 
ACCESSORIES t TOBACCO CIGARS 
t 
t ' t 
:1o%:ii;~~;.;t 

t this ad on : bf t everything except t 1for tobacco 
1 j
A t products t 
~ 

'JII .... ~ • "" .. ...... .. ... " • " " .. ' • "' ..... ' .. .J " -., ... -~ -... .. • .. .. • .. .. -Jl .. • ~-­

The Observer Friday, April3, 1981 -page 9 
Kuhn OKs one deal, holds on second 
NEW YORK (AI') First 
basemen Jason Thompson and Jim 
Spencer remained in limbo yester­
day whik the Pittsburgh Pirates and 
New York Yankees tried to 
restructurt· a trade whkh has been 
blockt·d, at least tc.·mporarily, by 
Commissioner Bowie Kuhn. 
Thompson knew only that he was 
no longc.·r a member ofthe.· California 
An~cls when Kuhn approved the 
tirst half of the three-team transac­
tion Thursday. In that trade, the 
Pirates ac.·quired Thompson from 
the Angds in exchange l(>r catcher 
Ed Ott and pitcher Mickc.·y Mahler. 
llut the commissioner withheld approval of the second part of the deal which would move Thompson from Pittsburgh to the.· Yankees for Spencer. pitchers Greg Cochran and Frt·d Toliver and an undisclosed amount ofcash. 
"The New York Yankee-Pittsburgh trade as submitted to us is still under rt·view because it in­volvt's the commissioner's guidelines on cash deals," Kuhn said. 
That guideline Is a 1400,000 cdlin~ on c.·ash transactions bt·· twt•t•n dubs and Kuhn frequently has blocked transactions exceeding that figure. Ironically, Cochran, the young pitcht·r the Yankees were · trying to trade.· to Pittsburgh, was in­volved in a similiar situation when he was obtained by New York from Oakland in Fc.·bruary I')7'). 
Tht· A's had shippt·d the young hurkr and catcher Bruce Robinson lO the Yankees in a 5500,000 package but Kuhn delayed approval of the transaction until he held a hc.·aring. 
Other <:ash deab blockt·d by Kuhn inc.·lude the attempted sale of pitd1er Rollie Fin~ers and outfielder 
Joe Rudi hy Oakland to Boston for $2 million and tht· sale.-of pitcher Vida Blue.· to the Yankees for S I.5 million in June, 1976 and Oakland's subsequt·nt attempt to sell Blue to Cincinnati for SI.75 million. Rudi and Fin~ns t•vc.•ntually left the A's as frc.·c.· agents and Blue was traded to San Francisco in exchange for seven players. 
Meanwhile. Pittsburgh and the Yankees still were trying to put to· gether the Thompson-Spencer deal in a way that Kuhn would accept. 
"Pc.·te Pt·terson (Pirate general 
. . . 
manager) says he has no apparent 
problems with the dissatisfaction of 
the commissioner with the Yankee 
trade and we arc making every effort 
at this time to compktc the deal un­
dn the commissioner's guidelines." 
said Tom Bird, a spokesman for the 
Pittsburgh ballclub. 
Thompson, 26, is seven years 
younger than Spencer and as­
sembled much more impressive 
statistics last season. Splitting the 
year between Detroit and California, 
Thompson batted .288 with 21 
home runs and 88 runs batted in. 
Spencer hit .236 with 13 homers ad 
43 RBI for New York. 


The Observer Friday, April3, 1981 -page 10 
~----------------~
1REAGAN FOREIGN 1 
I POLICY IN THE 80's I ' t A lecture by former tI ambassador I 
: ANDREW YOUNG I 
I'SATURDAY APRIL 4I' 
: 2:30 : 
: CCE Auditorium : 
fTHOSE DESIRING TO ASK QUESTIONS f t MUST OBTAIN A QUESTION CARD, f f AVAILABLE AT THE STUDENT t 
: GOVERNMENT OFFICE : 
·--------------~--1 

Milwaukee next 
Sixers oust Pacers, 96-85 
INDIANAPOLIS (AP) -Coach than this one. We have to play good 
Johnny Davis, who led Indiana

Billy Cunningham called Philadel­defense to win." 
with 21 points, helped the Pacers

phia's fourth quartrer defense 
The Pacers closed within three 
back within six points midway"magnificent" and Julius Erving, 

points late in the third quarter but 
through the quarter, but Philadel­who scored a game-high 23 points, "made a few mistakes and they phia outscored the Pacers 9-2 in thesaid the 76ers' NBA playoff ex­

(76ers) tightened up their defense," 
next three minutes to blow theperience was instrumental in last 

Indiana coach· Jack McKinney said. 
game open.

night's 96-85 victory over the In­
"We were getting good shots but we 
Bobby Jones had 10 points in thediana Pacers. 
just weren't making them." 
fourth quarter, including six in theThe triumph, Philadelphia's 

The Pacers, trailiing by 13 points 
final minutes to keep Philadelphiaeighth straight without a loss this 

in the third period, closed within 
safely ahead. 

season against the Pacers, gave the 
three points late in the quarter and 
Jones finished with 14 points76ers a two-game sweep of their 

trailed only 70-65 going into the 
while Dawkins added 13 and Cheeksbest-of-three first-round playoff final period. 

and Lionel Hollins 12 apiece for theseries. It sent Philadelphia into the 

A three-point play by Maurice 
76ers.

best-of-seven Eastern Conference 
Cheeks and baskets by Steve Mix and 
Orr finsihed with 16 points,Jamessemifinals against the Milwaukee 

Darryl Dawkin's starting the fourth 
Edwards added 14 and Billy KnightBucks, starting Sunday in Philadel­

quarter pushed the lead back to 12. 
·12 for Indiana.
phia. 

'"The key was that we played defense as well as you can play it in the fourth quarter," said Cunnin: 
Rockets aim to stop 
. gham. "Our agressive defense was magnificent, the way we helped each other and closed offthe lanes." 
champion Lakers 
Erving said the 76ers "just wanted to come out and play our game. We LOS ANGELES (AP) -The Los 
playoffon Wednesday night. got up on them, and they challenged Angeles Lakers, seeking to become 
"Malone beat us in every us, but we had enough to reach back the first National Basetball Associa­category," said Lakers coach Paul (and stay in front). Our playoff ex­tion team to win consecutive titles Westhead, whose team travels to 
perience helped us." since Boston did it more than a Houston for the second game Cunningham said he thinks the 
decade ago, have found an unex-· tonight. If necessary, the third game 76ers will have to play even better pected roadblock in the Houston will be at the Forum on Sunday after­defense against Milwaukee. Rockets. noon. 
"Any team that has any hopes of With Moses Malone scoring 38 "We've got to be more aggressive going any distance in the playoffs 
points and hauling down 23 in keeping the ball away from Moses had better be prepared to play hard­rebounds, the Rockets surprised Los 
and keeping him off the boards," nosed defense," he said. "We think Angeles 111-107 in the first game of commented Westhead. our next plateau will be tougher their best-of-three opening NBA 
The 6-foot-10 Malone outplayed his counterpart Kareem Abdul­Jabbar throughout. Jabbar finished with 21 points and 15 rebounds, but also made some costly mistakes.

• • • Track 
Westhead started the game with Jim Chones matched with Malone and then switched to Abdui-Jabbar. 

fill some ofthe void that the footb;~ll Neither could stop the 26-year-old
continuedfrom page 12 
players left." Piane citeo • .: Houston star. the nationals. He will be running the continuing improvement of sop~o­open quarter. We•re g<>m· g to mt·ss more Moyar who has been runnmg The result proved shocking since 
the three football players who ~tronger ev,ery_week. Moyar turned the Lakers had been 54-28 during helped us out this indoor season -m ~fine 3:59.4 m the 1500 meter~ to the regular season and the Rockets G B ll R b M G d Ch . fimsh second t41oAragon last week.
0 only 40-42. But Mike Dunleavy, the
Breg e ' c arry, an ns While the rest ofthe team is labor-starting Houston guard, proved him­
urger. ing in Champaign, senior co-captain 
self a prophet having said, "We "We will, however, be able to ex-Chuck Aragon will be running in the 
could embarrass them." ploit the full potential of Paul prestigious Sun Devil Classic in 
Houston coach Del Harris said, Doyle," says Kelly of the junior Tempe, Ariz. Notre Dame's first-ever 
"This may have been our best gametransfer student. "He's aiming for the sub-four-minute-miler will be pitted 
ofthe season. For that matter, it mayDrake Relays as a decathalete. He's against a field of very strong milers 
have been the best game in the his­scored an outstanding 7600 points in the invitation-only event. "He'll 
tory of the franchise. in the decathalon before. The school be running against a whole bunch of 
"Moses is one tremendous com­record is 6500 points." guys who have run four-flat," says 
petitor. I've been associated with The mult-talented Doyle was .Kelly. "It will be a good chance for 
him six years and he still does thingshampered by a hamstring injury for him to bounce back after a dis­
that amaze me." part of the indoor'season. "It's really sapointing performance at nation­
good to have him back in form. He'll als." 
SUMMER STORAGE SPACE 
Special discount for lfDISMC students Security Patrol Checks 
259-0335· 
SELF LOCK STORAGE OF MCKIIfLEY d16 East Me Kinley Mishawaka 
Malone had help. Calvin Murphy, 
the little guy at 5-10, came off the 
bench and hit from outside with 
shots of 18 feet. He finished with 19 
points. Billy Paultz scored 15, but 
more important, he grabbed 10 
rebounds, several in crucial situa­
tions. 
Remarkably, Jamaal Wilkes of the Lakers had no rebounds, although he did score 16 points. Earvin "Magic" Johnson, the star of last year's NBA finals, has recuperated from an early­season knee injury, but didn't seem up to his par as he scored 26 points and had 11 rebounds. 

Baggage Truck Concessions 
Contract is mandatory for any group or individual wishirJg to run a baggage truck this May &lor August 
Pick -up Applications March 30th Student Union Office 2nd floor LaFortune, 

Applications Due: April~ 8th 
• .
~ ...... ~ ~ 

,__ 

.r-
~ 
,.. 

Date: April 1Oth & 11th 
Tickets on sale NOW in LaFortune 
__I 

The annual Blue-Gold game, marking the offi­cial end ofspring foot hall practice, is scheduled for Saturday, May 2 at 
I p.m. in Notre Dame Stadium. Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students will he admitted at no charge upon presentation of their student ID cards at Gate 15 on~y. General admission tickets for the public are available in advance at the ACC's Gate I 0 box office from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m., Monday through Friday. Prices for these tickets are S2.50 for adults and Jl for people 17-and-under. Tickets will also he available at tht· stadium on game day priced at S3.50 and Sl.50 respectivdy. Tht·re will he no reserved seating. The game is sponsored annually by the Notrt· Dame Alumni Club of St. Joseph Valley and supports the club's st·holarship fund which currently sustains 16 area students at 
tht• University. 
The ND-SMC Ultimate Frisbee Club 
practices dailey at 3 p.m on Madeleva Field at Saint Mary's. Members are asked to bring their dues. The club will play in a tournament tomorrow at Purdue. Anyone interested in making the trip to West Lafayette must meet at Madalc:va Field by 6:45a.m. Cars are needed. 
Bookstore BasketballCommissioner Rob Simari has announced that there will he a mandatory meeting tonight at 6 p.m. in the Uhrary Auditorium. One person representing each team must at­tt·nd to pick-up a schedule for the tournament. All waiting-list teams that wt·re admitted to the tournament must bring the $2 entry fee to tht· meeting in order to play. 
Tomorrow's football practice wm he open to 
the public. This will he the only open spring session. Coach Gerry Faust a.~ks only that parents keep control of small children for their protection. The practice ht·gins at I :30 p.m. All spring practices are open to Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students with IDs, as well as faculty members with pa.o;ses obtained through the football office. 
Weekend Sports Schedule 
Friday Lacrosse-Notre Dame vs. Ohio Wes­leyan. Cartier Field at 3:30p.m. Men's Tennis-Notre Dame vs. Iowa, Co\Jrtney Tennis Center at 2 p.m. Baseball-Notre Dame vs. St. Mary·s­Minn. (2), Jake Kline Field at 1 p.m. Saturday Men's Track-Notre Dame vs. Illinois and Chicago T.C. in Champaign, Ill. Men's Tennis -Notre Dame vs. But­ler, Courtney Tennis Center at 2 p.m. Baseball-Notre Dame vs Cincinnati (2), Jake Kline Field at 1 p.m. Football -Open Spring Prat1ce. Car­tier Field at 1:30 p.m. Sunday Lacrosse -Notre Dame vs. Denison, Cartier F1eld at 1 p.m. Men's Tennis-Notre Dame vs. Michi­gan, Courtney Tennis Center at 1 p.m. Baseball-Notre Dame at Valparaiso, 2p.m. 

NATIONAL HOCKEY LEAGUE 
How They Really Stand 
Under the NHL's playoff format, the 16 teams with the highest point totals make the playoffs; the other five do not. 
w L T GF GA Pts 

1. NY Islanders 46 16 14 344 256 106 St. Louis 45 17 16 346 272 106 
3. 
Montreal 43 22 13 322 229 99 

4. 
Los Angeles 43 24 12 334 263 96 Buffalo 36 19 21 319 239 96 


6. 
Philadelphia 41 23 15 313 247 97 

7. 
Calgary 38 27 14 323 293 90 


6. Boston 36 29 13 309 266 65 Minnesota 34 27 17 283 255 85 
10. 
Quebec 30 31 17 307 309 77 

11. 
Chicago 30 32 16 295 306 76 Vancouver 26 30 20 262 266 76 


Friday, April3, 1981 -page 11 
13. Pittsburgh  29  36  13  295 336  71  
14. NY Rangers  26  36  14  307 316  70  
Edmonton  27  35  16  314 323  70  
16. Toronto  27  37  14  313 360  68  
Washington  25  35  18  276 311  68  
18. Hartford  21  39  16  267 361  60  
19. Colorado  22  45  12  253 339  56  
Detroit  19  41  16  246 327  56  
21. Winnipeg  9  56  13  239 366  31  

Yesterday's Games Washington 3, Boston 2 Pittsburgh 1, Detroit 1 (tie) NY Islanders 2, NY Rangers 1 Buffalo 2, Philadelphia 2 (tte) St. Louis 6, Los Angeles 4 
Calgary 5, Colorado 3 
Tonight's Games Hartford at Mpntreal Chicago at NY Rangers Edmonton at Vancouver 

NBA PLAYOFFS 

First Round Eastern Conference 
Yesterday's Results Philadelphia 96. Indiana 65 (Philadelphia wins best-of-three series. 2-0) 
Today'a Game New York at Chicago (Chicago leads best­of-three series, 1-0) 
Sunday's Game Chicago at New York (if necessary) 
Western Conference Yesterday's Results No games s~heduled 
Today's Games Los Angeles at Houston (Houston leads best-of-three series. 1-0) Kansas City at Portland (Kansas City leads best-of-three senes. 1-0) 
Sunday's Games Houston at Los Angeles (if necessary) Portland at Kansas City (if necessary) 
Top teams remamm contention 
Defending champion Penn State and 1980 runnerup San Jose State, along with Temple, Penn, Ohio State and Yale, remained in contention af­ter yesterday's first round in the As­sociation for Intercollegiate Athletics for Women fencing cham­pionships at Saint Mary's Angela Ath­letic Facility. 
The top six seeded teams advanced with a pair of prdiminary bouts, then claimed victories in the t1rst round of direct eliminations in the meet being co-hosted by Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. 
Top-seeded Penn State had tht· easiest time, defeating William and Mary, 16-0, and Wisconsin, 14-2, in the prdiminaries, then romping past North Carolina, 9-0 in the direct elimination bout. 
The team title will he decided this afternoon. Joy Ellingson of San Jose State will defend her crown in the individual championships tomor­row. Twila Kitchen of Saint Mary's also be among the 46 fencers vying for individual honors. -AP 
All CltiSStfteO JcJs must be rel·e•ven bv 4 45 1J rn 1wo C1dyS pnvr •o Ihe 
•S'iuf-' ,n wh11.:h thP. <td •c.. run The Observer oll•ce will accept cl.l!!.Stf.eds 
Mond.w tl"lro••Yh Fr~dr~\ 10 00 am to S 00 p m At I classtflt!dS n,ust be 
P't'·Pctld r•1:her m )Jt!rson or thro,Jgh f11e mtttl
Classifieds 

I fast my room keys 1n an lniOXIcated for sale-pa1r of Jensen speakers in GERRY LOVERS UNITE! II you love MIKE CASSIDY, KEITH CAUGHLIN and PRO BURKE 
moment. I don't know exactly where I good shape-able lo crank $125 Paulal Gerry Fausl. Join FANS FOR FAUST SUSIE BAUTISTA...Wnal can I say? PRO BURKE losllhem. bul I behave 111o be on Green 3331 Call3701 Thanks for lhe roses, boys. If's been a HE MAKES THE CHILDREN CAY !Ill F1eld. If you find a set ot keys w1lh 1008 terrific year. I never learned to be brief SAVE THOSE PENNIES FOR UMOC 
INSTANT CASH PAID FOR CLASS on them please call Mike 1474 76AMC Pacer. Call Rose 41-4304 ALTERNATIVE COMMENCMENT al meetings, bul nobody's pertecl PRO, YOU'RE AN UGLY MAN II! RINGS $2D-S85 OR MORE WE MAKE There will be a meetmg for anyone in· Thanks lor some memorable TAIL· HOUSE CALLS 255-2402 For Sale: Brand new. TechniCS AM-FM terested 1n organ1z1ng for an al­OATERS (lhere, I said il), Sunday niles WE WANT TO BUY A BOOKSTORE 
Stereo Rec1ever and Tosn1ba Stereo ternative commencment speaker 1n Lafortune a room full ot huggers, TEAM. CALL US IF YOU'RE TEAM WILL DO TYPING CALL287·5162 Cassano Deck List value over $400. Fo Monday, Apnl 6 at 7 p.m. in lne Walsh Mario·s--lhe Bar, the nol golf carl. our WOULD RATHER DRINK THAN
I ~-~R RENT __) 

sale $50·1 00 or besl offer. I need bucks Hall soulh lou.1ge. lneme song T&A", beer basted brats, PLAY!!!! CALL 1650 FOR INFOAMA· 
FARMWOAKEA WEEKI last. Inquire at 503 Grace Hall or call and many more "un"·dull moments.. TION FAAMWOAKEA WEEKI 1655 and ask tor John. MANDATORY BOOKSTORE special thanks to you Mike, you'll al­FARMWOAKER WEEKI Furnished 4 bedroom neuse to next MEETING. Ton1ghl in lhe Lib. Aud. al ways be my Pres1den1. See you in Ihe Keg, nas Dad mentioned the phone 
school year close to campus, good 6:00 pm. One member of each learn Senate. Love, Megan biii?P. & I area, 277 ·3604 or 288·0955 
MUST allend. Wailing-hslleams MUST bring $2.00 enlry tee. • MARY LENNERTZ. DESPERATELY NEED TWO NOTYPINO .. Only $ 65 a page Call Dan, 
272·5549 Summer houses and rooms. furniShed, THANK YOU FOR THE PAST GRADUATION TICKETS CAN YOU walk lo campus. cheap rani, 277·3604 HAPPY BIRTHDAY, AMY HIRSH I!I WEEKEND --ONE I'LL REMEMBER HELP? PLEASE CALL RUTH AT 41­
L TICKETS 
OVERSEAS JOBS · Summer-year 
or288·0955 5459.
FOR SOME TIME. I need 3 (lnaf's three) graduation tick· TOM STOCK, HAPPY B·DAY LOV~PAUL round Europe, S.Amer.. Australia, 
As1a All f~elda $500-$1200 monthly 
FOR RENT-UOL Y DUCKLING RENT· els. (Yes, folks. if's starling already.) If LOVE. RUMOR HAS IT THAT IT'S BUFFY'SSlgnl....,mg Free mlo Wnte IJC. Box A-CAR FROM $7.95 A DAY AND 7 you can help me, call Scoop al1772. MANNEQUIN WOMAN Vigilantes: TWENTY-SECOND BIRTHDAY TUDAY52·1N4, Corona Del Mar. Ca. 92625 CENTS A MILE PHONE 259 UGLY I
Learn the language I Still waiting tor a FOR RESERVATIONS.
Tne Jazz Fes11val1s Back .. Qon't Mlssii­Need EXTRA GRADUATION TIX badly Joe Pollpeler, bolter word bull'm one of Gerry's Kids ·Apnl 10& 11 
-PLEASE call Mary Pal al8091 My nearl and thoughts will be w1lh you so who cares? El1sabella. AVAILABLE NEXT SCHOOL YEAR 2 now and always. Good luck tomorrow. 1 OLEET HAPPY BIRTHDAY LOVE, LET'S FIVE BEDROOM HOUSES. NEAR NO. HELP! I need ONE graduation ticket--if CELEBRATE I
know you can do II. P.S. Eal al Mac·s much? LEASE, DEPOSIT. 234·2626 you have an exira ticket please call I love you. MeMANDATORY BOOKSTORE 
MEETING 
R1cn al 287-8596. Any assistance is Susan Clare,
Tontghlln the LIB AUD. at 6 p.m. One 
AVAILABLE SUMMER AND NEXT greatly appreciated. HOPE YOU HAD A HAPPY BIRTHDAY
Gel psyched tor MCA T's. Pizza awa11s SCHOOL YEAR 1 AND 3 BEDROOM RICK S., BOB 8 , GUS. MIKE M , AND you next week. WEEK. BEENEA! JUST WAIT TILLmember of each team MUST altend. 
Wa11ing·llll teams MUST bnng $2.00 
APARTMENTS 234·2626 GRADUATION TICKETS NEEDED DQM Gel psyched. ... Kick Ass Coach NEXTYEAAIII 
entry toe 
CALL6652 on ·CATSI!!I Graduate Students: 5 Bedroom home. The Firemeister KELLY AND JEFF· BEST OF LUCK ON PANGBORN HAPPY HOUR FRIDAY 3-7 Tt11a Saturday, APRIL 41h. al2:30 PM. 
fully furnished, washer-dryer. Sale 
MCATS AT IRISH COUNTRY 3 DAAFTS·$1 00. 
near ANDREW YOUNG speak on Reagan·a torlegn policy al lhe C.C.E. 
ne1gnborhood. Nice. 288-3109. CRYSTAL ROCKS THE LeMANS LADIES PITCHER-$2.00 CRYSTAL ROCKS AUDITORIUM! 
Furnished 3·4 bedroom no use lor sum­CRYSTAL ROCKS LOST IN TIME, LOST IN TIME, DAVE STUDENT MUSICAL ACTS WANTED mer, $200-m1h. 233-3552. CRYSTAL ROCKS TILLEY IS THE MISSING LINK! VOTE APPLY IN PERSON AT IRISHBASE BALL MITTS RE LACED Call Greg Saturday n1ghl at IRISH COUNTRY. DAVE CRO-MAONON MAN" TILLEY COUNTRY OR CALL 232-0111 at t740 
JANE·O DOES NOT HATE SCOOP. Rock'n Roll good limes. FOAUMOCI!! LIVE MUSIC EDDY ST KNIGHTSFree canoe lnp" Are you kidding? 
---~ BUMPERSTICKER FORMER U.N AMBASSADOR ANDREW YOUNG --2:30 PM. C.C E FRIDAY NITE AT IRISH COUNTRY Apnl Feola' from lhe Noire Dame 
NTED 

(1) WHEN YOU SAY NOTRE DAME. ANDREW YOUNG speaks on U.S. AUDITORIUM THIS SATUDAY-APRIL
Aqahc Society. 
-~·----~··· YOU'VE SAID IT ALL" toriegn policy under Reagan Saturday, 4 Reagan foriegn policy m I he ao·s DONT TELL ME NOT ANOTHER 
(2) WHEN YOU SAY IRISH, YOU'VE April 4, 2:30 p.m al lhe CCE BASH AT KEN STACK S. 303 CAMPUS IF YOU NEED AN EXTRA ROOMMATE SAID IT ALL" Aud1lorium All questions musl be sub­L1saC. VIEW.. FRIDAY THIS TIME SO WE ALL TO LIVE OFF CAMPUS NEXT YEAR, $2.00 each. Send check· or money or· mitted in advance. Question cards You nave lhe mosl beautiful body ever HAVE TWO DAYS TO CALL,ME JIM, 277-3685 derto: available at the Student Government created by God. manx for Fri. mle. Too RECOVER MANY KEGS BE THERE. 
IRISH" Oflice--2nd Floor LaFortune bad we couldn't have stayed oul taler. ALOHA I NEED 3 AIDES TO PITTSBURGH FOR P.O. BOX 3364 
Maybe we can make up lor lost lime EASTER. CALL GREG 3451 OR SUE CHAPEL HILL, N.C. 27514 ONE WEEK FROM TODAYIII KEN· 
Sal. 284-5329. 
TUCKY CLUB HAPPY HOUR AUGUSTA Your slud M1ke Kitz. 
GOOD LUCK TO ALL MY PRE·MEDS
LOST A pa1r of blue sandals SIZe 7 1-2 (SMC)4-6
Just now ugly Is Jeff Jeffers? FRIENDS (B1II. John, Phil) and espe·
al Pangborn SYA before break CALL NEED AIDE TO WASHINGTON, D.C., or EDWARD V. WALSH c1ally lne besl took1n pre-med ot all.
«51 NORTHERN VIRGINIA FOR THE Jeff Jeffers is so ugly, he knows Ill Kalin, Here's your megalomaniacal personal. WEEKEND OF APRIL 10-12. CAN HAPPY 191h BIRTHDAY! Remember· 
DARCY CONNOR. (nolle mention besl lnend and all around bnlllent doctor·
You can't have your cream corn" and lo·be). I'll bring the champagne when I 
LOST· LAROE BROWN DRESS BOX IN LEAVE ON WEDNESDAY WILL The only one for UMOC 
SHARE THE USUAL. CALL RICH AT GOODE IS BAD eal it loot Soen;oy II anyway you like II· gel back from Ch1cago Love and luck.
THE LOBBY OF THE CHICAGO MAR· Is Richard Slanage 
232·0962. GOODE IS BAD warm or cold, bul tor heaven's sake MCB.
RIOT SUNDAY AFTERNOON MARCH Wiln a lace like h1s 
GOODE IS BAD don't STARVE II Have a great day I 277·3990 A1ders needed to Dayton, OH leaving Jim Goode tor UMOC Love, 
29 IF YOU FOUND IT PLEASE CALL How does ne manage? 
JUNIORS... Your chance lo shmeC&A
Aprll10. Call Don 8270. HAIR BRAIDING tor all occasions. 291· comes nexl Saturday.. petorm al
LOST: A wn1te canon blazer. no bul· You·ve seen beller heads on pimples. 8215. 
JUNIOR NITE AT THE NAZZ.. CALLIons, aatln lining. Posaibly left at SMC. Need nde to or around mid-Hudson Jim Goode tor UMOC. 
Wendy's may be not and 1u1cy, bul 2126 lor details. Deadline is Fnday
Finder please call283-8663. Valley for Easter. Can leave early. Will Dear Buckwheat (alias Bifi)..Well you
Musumeci is tal and greasy. CALL TODAY share usual. Call Moura at 7852. FAAMWORKER WEEKI finally gol your own personal and boy
Joe Moose" Musumec1 LOST. A navy-blue sk1 vest (3 colored FARMWORKER WEEK! forUMOC do you deserve ill I'd tusl like 10 thank 
atr1pes on shoulders) w11n large snap­FAAMWORKER WEEK you lor tne besl semester ot my career I FOUND: PARKER BLE PEN AND PEN· pocket on back. Lett on second floor of MMB. owe 11 moslly loyou... bul wiln guys like TEL MECI-'ANICAL PENCIL SET ON Memonal library Tuesday n1gnt. If FOR SALE You·rethe greatest roommate you around how's a g1rl supposed lo GRASS IN FRONT OF O'SHAO CALL
SMC Somer Brunch hx still ava1lable.
found, contact Den1se Sm11n al6766 gel any work done? Have tun explain· MARY ELLEN AT 8903 AFTER 5.
Love MP Slop in aline alumnae office, I he office ing my grades to my lalherll If no in LeMans closest lo lhe library exil.
LOST· SMC CLASS RING. BLUE FOR SALE: Peavy 300 walt bass amp Q: Who composed lhe music lor The doesn't like you any more al least I 
NATURAL FAMILY PLANNING IN· STONE, ENGRAVED S.S. 83 CALL Pink Panther Vacations tn the Yukon?'' wiii.Ann FORMATION NIGHT MONDAY, APRIL
One lasl chowdown wiln your friends. 
15 in. spkr hke new $325. x8549 

284·5329 A: Henry Moose-ini. 6, 7:30·8:30 PM, HAYES-HEALY
Reagan tor UMOC 

Computer Terminal (micro-term model Good luck MCATersl 
Thanks lo Mike Ortman. wno is still AUDITORIUM 
LOST SILVER CHAIN WITH MINI· Acl-1 A) w1tn Modem $500. Call 272-trying lo make up tor lhe first terrible 7613. 
Lei's have a three ring circus: a degree 
ATUAE SPARK PLUG. ON WALK moose joke ne submillod. (II was about Ski~ them CATS Pete B. I 
tor Bonzo tool 

FROM PARKING LOT TO MOREAU lra~ns.) Jim-Happy birthday HALL AT SMC REWARD PLEASE component stereo for may purchase Moose Control G~i~·lh~(;~ii~glaleJazz Fesllvai .. April Love ya, Robin bob 232-0982 Jeff Jeffers Is d1sgusllng
CALL IRENE AT 4074 AT ST. MARY'S. 10& 11 
-



;----------­
-------------------------------~ 
Friday, April 3, 1981 -page i 2
~ports 
Irish runners ready for Fighting Illini 


ByEARLRIX 
Sports Writer 
The Irish track team travels to Champaign, Ill., this weekend to face the Illini, the Big Ten indoor cham­pions, and the University ofChicago Track Club. 
Head Coach Joe Piane describes tomorrow's non-scoring meet as, "a low-key thing where we can experi­ment with a lot of guys. We are get­ting ready fur the big meets that begin on April I I with the Arkansas State Invitational. After that, every weekend is pressure." 
After the Irish try to retain their I 980 title in Arkansas, they will prepare for the Indiana Intercol­Iegiates (April 18) followed by the prestigious Drake Relays (April 24­25). 
"This meet will give us a chance to put everyone in the event in which he wants to compete," says junior John McCloughan, "in the event that he is the best at, without havipg to worry about the pressure ofscoring points in specific events against the other team. It'll give everyone a chance to get his confidence going before the season really heats up." 
Despite the low-key nature of the event, there will be plenty of com­petition for the Irish. "Illinois has a great team -name an event and they are solid in it," adds Piane. "They also have one of the best weight crews in the country." 
Piane also says that he will be in­terested in seeing Tim Twardzic, McCloughan and Jim Moyar, run again after good performances last week in the team's only home meet ofthe spring, the Notre Dame Invita­tional. 

Senior Tim Twardzic ran a solid :54.2 in the 400-meter hurdles to finish first in the 15-team Invitation­al last weekend. "I'm really looking forward to this weekend," says Twardzic with enthusiasm. "The whole hurdling squad is running ex­
tremely well. The fact that I broke 
50 seconds in the 400 meters last 
weekend indicates to me that I 
New assistantfootball coaches (left to right) Tom Backhus,jim Higgins and Tom Lichtenberg will 
should be able to hurdle the same 
join new ticket managerSteve OrsiniandGeny Faust in BookstoreBasketballon "The New Kids on the distance in under 53 seconds. I don't Block." (Photos by Paul Mullaney) know whether it will be this weekend, but I'm waiting for some­thing to click." 
Leave gridiron
McCloughan ran a :14.3 in the I I 0-meter high hurdles to nose out teammate Dave Bernards for second in last week's Invitational. Bernards 
'New Kids' take to court 
ran a :I4.4. "That's the best time that I've run since I came to NO," says 
By FRANK LaGROTTA
McCloughan."It was a very good 
and SKIP DESJARDIN 
way to start the season off. Dave is 
Sports Writers 

running really well too -especially for this early in the season." 
Much has been written about the
Sprint Coach Ed Kelly says, "All "new-look" Notre Dame footballfour of our hurdlers ran well last program. Coach Gerry Faust and hisweek. That suggests that we will be staff have been praised in every
able to put together a hurdle shuttle sports publication from Sports Il­
relay team for the Drake Relays. 
lustrated to Indiana Sports Weekly. 
"I'm really eager to see Jacques People are marvelling at the en­Eady run again. He hasn't run since thusiasm and good humor being dis­See TRACK, page 10 played by everyone connected with 
·------------------------------­
Lacrosse arrives atND 

The game has its roots, as creation myths go, in 
American Indian history, hundreds ofyears ago. During 
these pre-NCAA days when death on the playing field 
was not uncommon, the sport of lacrosse gained a 
reputation for bloodshed more akin to places like Little 
Big Horn and Fort Courage. 
But !~crosse has done quite a bit ofgro'."·ing up since struggling through the formative years \o the point where, now, the game ofthe Indian and, more recently, the Eastern seaboard has reached out for recognition on the campus ofthe Fighting Irish in the uncultivated har­vest land of Middle America. 
After I 7 years of good clean fun on the club level at Notre Dame, the Irish stickmen made their pitch for varsity status a year ago and finally received the long­awaited promotion. 
The game, as first-year Irish coach Rich O'Leary says, 
"is as exciting as any on the collegiate level when it's 
played well." 
But O'Leary, the assistant director ofnon-varsity ath­
letics who has been associated with the Notre Dame 
club as volunteer head coach for the last IO years, is 
making no false promises as to a future national cham­
pionship sport taking immediate_ hold of the Irish 
campus. 
"I'm not going to deceive anyone and say we're jum­
ping into this thing to become the next Johns Hopkins 
(the benchmark for perennial NCAA lacrosse 
supremacy)," says the 34-year-old Irish coach, a native 
ofEast .\1eadow, N.Y. "But we have a chance, right away, 
t'h be a representative team in the Midwest. That's a very 
attainable goal." 
Ah yes, the .\1idwest. Lacrosse might as well be anoth­
n planet for all the exposure it's seen west ofthe Alleg­
henies. O'Leary feels, however, that you don't have to 
he from Lono stand or Maryland to appreciate the 
game. 
"In the East, the game is skilled, high-scoring and fast­moving when it's played best," O'Leary explains. "To this point we haven't been able to attract many players of that background htre, but word spreads rapidly. 

"Lacrosse can be one ofthe top spect;~tor sports," he continues. "It's a colorful game with the sticks and equipment and it combines all the elements of many sports. Lacrosse is physical, like football; it's high­scoring, like basketball; it uses the same conditioning 
principles as soccer, but the speed of movement is 
much faster, more similar to hockey with the end-to­
end action." 
O'Leary, who played on a junior college national 
championship team at Nassau (N.Y.) Community Col­

lege and a nationally-ranked Cortland (N.Y.) State 
squad on the NCAA, level, preaches on and on the 
virtues ofhis native passion. 
The real beauty ofthe game, on anylevel, may well be 
that success isn't predicated on enormous physical stat­
ure and blazing speed to succeed. A modicum of hand­
to-eye coordination and a reasonably athletic frame is 
all it takes. This is a game for the crafty little workhorse 
who uses his head. 
Lacrosse even has managed to grow, on the. NCAA level, along a relatively antiseptic, scandal-free course. The money interest in the game involves few schools, and recruiting efforts are simplified by the small, 
localized nature ofthe talent pool. 
"Not many schools can afford to offer lacrosse scholarships, so it's easier to recruit," says O'Leary. "The supply of players is located in a small geographic area, and the game is not a big revenue-producer. 
"This first year for us is a stepping-stone to an im­proved flow of experienced players in the future. Ifwe have a smooth transition year and show people in the East that\we do have a legitimate varsity program, we can begin to attract kids who'd normally go (without scholarships) to an Ivy League school on the Harvard­
Brown-Dartmouth level. 
"Our admission standards are similar to theirs," he 
adds, "and like -I said, word spreads rapidly. Last year, 
many kids in our present freshman dass (the best 
O'Leary has ever had) heard we were going varsity and 
that was enough for them." 
O'Leary's holdovers from the club days are veterans 
of Midwest-style lacrosse. The squad is scrappy, not 
flashy. The Irish make their own breaks by playing 
defense with players like Mo Beshlian and Dave Lewis. 
That's doing it the hard way. The goal and assist men 
that will dominate the boxscore are guys like attackmen 
Mike Lynch and Steve Pearsall, one of Notre Dame's 
freshman standouts from Greenlawn, N.Y., and midfiel­
ders Carl Lundblad and Danny Pace. 
Notre Dame has a goalie, senior Tim Michels, who 
See LACROSSE, page 9 
the Irish squad. 

There may be no greater example 
ofthat enthusiasm, that involvement with every aspect of Notre Dame, than in a Bookstore Basketball team that will play under the name "The New Kids on the Bloc)<;.." · 
Led by Steve Orsini, one of the captains ofthe I977 National Cham­pionship football team, and Notre Dame's new ticket manager, the New Kids features an All-Athletic Department roster. 
"As soon as i took the job here at Notre Dame, I started thinking about the Bookstore tournament," says Or­sini. " I had a great time playing when I was a student here, and I real-. ly wanted to get back into it. 
"There aren't many students around that I knew when I was here, so I was having a tough time trying to come up with a team. One day I humped into Coach Faust in the hall, and on the spur of the moment, asked him ifhe had ever heard ofthe tournament." 
Faust most certainly had, and was eager to play. He left it to Orsini, however, to fill out the roster. 
"We just figured that it would he good to have a bunch of guys from the Athletic Department play to­gether," Orsini continues. "We all wantedto be involved, and show the students that we were really a part of the Notre Dame community, and not just figures that sit behind desks or pace the sidelines." 
Spring Football'81 
So Orsini went down to the foot­ball office on a recruiting trip of his own, and convinced three of Faust's assistants to join the team. 
Coaches Tom Lichtenberg, Jim Higgins, and Tom Backhus were as eager as Faust to get in on the now­famous tournament. 
"Our strategy is to have a good time," says Orsini. "We're not very tall, so I guess we'll have to rely on our strength under the basket." 
Faust is just beginning to realize what the tournament is all about, but has lost none ofhis enthusiasm. 
"No one ever told me that the games were played full:court. I may not last a whole game," he laughs. "No, seriously, we are just out to have a good time. I don't know that we'll win many games." 
But Faust must have some con­fidence in the ability of he and his teammates; he has re-arranged his travel schedule to make room t(>r the New Kids' first three games. One speaking engagement has been res­cheduled, and a coaching clinic delayed, in order to make every scheduled game on time. 
"I think this is a great thing for the students," he says. "It gives them a chance to play against varsity foot­ball and basketball players, and it's a good time for everyone involved." 
Despite the players' disclaimers that the New Kids are out for fun on­ly, the team has a lot ofpotential: 
Steve Orsini, 25 (S'lO") -Every player on the team says that Orsini is the only offensive or defensive threat. The former .football captain still plays basketball almost daily, in an effort to keep himself in shape. "I hope I can still run with any team we face, hut that remains to be seen. We may have some problems keeping 
up." 
Gerry Faust, 45 (6'1") -Faust was cut from his high school squad. Undaunted, he tried out for the freshman team at the University of Dayton, and was cut there as well. His best shot, he says, is a 25-to-30­foot set shot. "I still can't believe this tournament is played full-court. Are you sure about that?" 
Tom Lichtenberg, 39 (6'1") -Lichtenberg probably has the most haskecball experience of any of the New Kids. An all-city selection in Cincinnati while a high school player, he received several basket­ball scholarship offers. He played freshman ball at the University of Louisville before deciding to play footbal full-time. "Tom is the point guard," says Coach Joe Yonto. "He points out where he thinks the rest ofhis team should be playing." 
Jim Higgins, 38 (6'2") -A for­mer pro football player with the Miami Dolphins and the Edmonton Eskimos. The New Kids are looking for Higgins, one ofthe Irish offensive line coaches, to provide muscle un­derneath the basket. 
Tom Backhus, 32 (5'10") ­Faust's first prep All-American when he played at Moeller High School, Backhus splits the offensive line coaching duties with Higgins. Helped lead Ohio State to a national football championship as an all-Big Ten guard in 1968. 
The New Kids will debut, without the benefit of a single practice ses­sion, on Sunday, April I2. They will play that first game on the Bookstore courts at 6:45 p.m. 
Provided they win that first game, Orsini, Faust, et at. then will play Wednesday, April 15 at 6:30p.m. 

-

