
• • . Midpoint -page 8 

VOL XVI, NO. 9 an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and samt mary's FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 4, 1981 

Speaks to labor 
Reagandefendsprograms 
CHICAGO (AP) -President Konyha said collective bargaining anti-labor administration in Wash­Reagan defended his spending cuts "without the right to strike, or a ington since Calvin Coolidge was as "hardly cruel and Inhuman trustworthy alternative to strikes, president more than 50 years ago." Ddeprivation" yesterday and told can be an idle and futile exercise." Manatt said It was "a little strange t~e carpenters' union his economic He did not dispute Reagan's asser­that a presidcat who fin:s 12,000 air program lays the foundation for "a tion that even liberal labor leaders traffic controllers because he says new era ofgood feeling in America." opposed strikes by public they broke their no-strike pledge 
In his first speech to organized employees when they began decs not seem very tnmbled about labor since he fired 12,000 striking orgamzt~;~g government workers breaking his pledge: to millions of air traffic controllers, Reagan also years ago, but said there had been a American workers not to cut their repeated his insistence that govern­"change in thinking ... during the Social Security benefits." ment employees have no right to years." Reagan had been adamant in his strike. He said the largest public opposition to public employee 
"We cannot as citizens pick and employee unions, like the American strikes, saying rank-and-file workers choose the laws we will or will not Federation of State, County and and taxpayers "arc the supreme obey," he said. Municipal Employees and the authority In our land." 
About 3,000_ delegates to the American Federation of Govern­But Reagan drew applause and lOOth anniversary convention ofthe ment Employees, do not have a ban cheers when he promised: "This ad­United Brotherhood of Carpenters on strikes. Charles T. Manatt, ministration will not fight inflation and joiners gave Reagan a generally chairman ofthe Democratic Nation­by attacking the sacred right of friendly reception, but his speech al Committee, followed Reagan and American workers to negotiate their was lntcrrupcd by applause only a drew thunderous applause when he wages. We propose to control few times and the audience was said: "this is the most anti-union, government, not people." silent through Reagan's defense of his economic program. 
There was no reaction when Reagan promised that high interest rates "will come down," when he 

Chautauqua receives 
defended his 25 percent tax cut, which some criticssay helps the rich more than the poor, or when he 

second chance 
pledged to help the housing in­
dustry out ofits "pit." struction ofastage with lighting and
Reagan was barely out of the By DAVID RICKABAUGH auditorium when the head of the 
Senior StaffReporter the instellation ofan audio system. union took issue with Reagan's no­
"We arc going to use the money to strike stance for government A name change and a S20,000 line bring In the best entertainment workers. of credit constitute the changes available and minor renovations to William Konyha distributed a which aim to make the Chautauqua the stucture," Hooper said. statement saying the carpenters uni­Coffeehouse a viable part of the "We can lose a little money now on "-completely supports the con­Notre Dame campus. in order~o draw people up hen:, but Army ROTC awards were presented by Doctor Tillman in the In an attempt to draw more Chautuaqua was opened on a trial
cept of full union rights for
library auditorium. (Photo by Chris Salvino) 
government employees." people to the coffehouse, the name basis and we have: to show the ad­of Chautauqua has been changed to ministration that this is a viable part the LaFortune Club. The latter of the campus," commented Mur­chosen because of student day.
LatestAngolan strife 
familiarity with the LaFortune Stu­Fr. Van Wolvlear said that a failure: dent Center. to gain student support of the "The new name lets the students project will result in a questioningof know where we are," stated the need for a student co.lleehousc. Chautauqua Student Manager Todd He also explained that the usc or' Hooper. misuse of the first money 
Soviet wives die in battle 
JOHANNESBURG, South Africa only that the two unidentified been trumpeted here as a major The money, available for usc in determines the awarding of the 
(AP) -Two Soviet women were lieutenant colonels were among publicity victory for South Africa in SIO,OOO allotments, originates from second, but the administration holds"some Soviets" killed during last its battle against Angola-based blackkilled by South African troops in the the University's general fund. The no influence over the student dis­week's attack on Angola. A spokes­nationalist guerrillas. The militarylatest invasion of Angola, a request for the appropriation took tribution offunds. 
man reached by phone said he had said Pcstretsov was seized whilediplomatic source said Thursday. 
place at last May's Board ofTrustee Commenting further, he said,
"no comment when asked about the traveling with a column of SWAPOThe South African government had meeting. "The students just wanted a chance
report of the women's deaths.
no comment. See ANGOLA, page 4 Vice President ofStudent Affair Fr. to show us what they could with
The capture of Pestretsov has ==--=======================-=~------~_-_---_-john Van Wolvlear said the presenta­some support. Now they have the
One woman was the wife of a 
Soviet lieutenant colonel, who also 
tions of Stude!_lt Government Presi­support and the chance_" was killed, and the other was the 
dent Don Murday and Comptroller "If the students don't go, it wiD 
wife of captured Soviet Sgt. Maj. 
• Matt Barrett at the last Board ofTrus­close. Don ( Murday) didn't ask for a Nikolai Feodorovlch Pcstretsov, the 


A rejuvenated dorm 
tees Meeting Hluminated the need continuing budget-It will truly have 
source said. 
for the S20,000 figure. to carry a large portion of its own The source, who asked not to be "Tqis money enables them to weight," said Mason_Identified, said the South Africans 

starts a new life 
balance the budget and invest in He emphasized that the existence had not told him how the women 
projects that will improve the stu­ofthe coffeehouse rests on its abilitygot Involved in the fighting, but he dent response to the coffeehouse." to support itself The money it said "they must have had jobs to do, By CECILIA LUCERO lege dormitory in 1929. 
said Fr. Van Wolvlear. makes goes back Into its account.
In recent years, deterioration of
otherwise they wouldn't have been News Staff 
Distribution of the funds occurs The Vice-President of Business af­
the building due to age gradually in­
so far south." The diplomat, In 
through two SIO,OOO allotments, fairs added however, that the ad­
creased, creating safety problems. the first available upon request of ministration remains totallyPretoria, spoke to The Associated just as ,the completed renovation 
Press by telephone. of St. Edward's dormitory brings To alleviate these problems, a 
the Student Union. The plan stip­committed to the success of the In New York, the U.N. General As­new life to the physical structure of project to install safety devices, such ulates that the second allotment oc­plan.
sembly set another meeting of its the hall, so has a new sense of pride as smoke alarms and a sprinkler sys­cur only after spending the first "This is a joint effort between the emergcm:y session on Namibia, to among the St. Ed's community tem, was undertaken. As installation 
allotment and holding a meeting be-administration and the students. 
consider a draft resolution calling emerged. of these measures had just been . tween the students, Fr. Van would like nothing better than tofor total isolation ofSouth Africa. St. Edward's, named after the completed, early In the summer of 
Wolvlear, and Vice-President of claim, 'We were able to work togeth­
'!be United States and its four 1980, however, a ftrc of unknown 
Business AJJairs Thomas Mason to eron a winner." 
partners in the Namibia indepen­origin swept through the fourth detemlne If a need for the cof­Student Body President Don Mur­dence effort were expected to floor. 
feehouse exists. day expressed confidence In 
abstain on the grounds that to take a Fortunately, no one occupied the "The money will enable us to en­LaFortune Club's success saying, "I 
position would be prejudicial to dorm at the time. Father Mario Pedl, 
ter the second phase of our overall am very confident in this place. I 
their mediation attempts. rector ofSt. Ed's since 1976, and the 
plan for the old LaFortune Ball­would love to make It work and give
On Monday the United States only summer resident of the dorm, 
room," Murday commented them (the administration) the
vetoed a U.N. Security Council con­attended class while the blaze ­He added that when the four-part money back."
demnation of South Africa's attacks which called for the aid of ten fire plan is completed, the coffehouse He added that LaFortune a on Angola because the resolution department units -destroyed St. 
will have booths, tables, and a snack "student center In the true sense of
did not extend criticism to the Ed's. 
bar.
Soviet and Cuban presence. 
See CHANCE, JM18C -6
The first phase included the con-
The Defense Department has said 1 See ST. ED'S. paae 8 
au IV' ~·~lo-11$2¥1G i"i:Nt'";;;agtii. :'7'··.-.•·t"\' ·'·' ', .....
011' 
patron saint of Rev. Edward Sorin, University founder, was built in 1.882, for the "minims", Notre Dame's elementary school students. The buildin_g was converted to a col­


NewsBrieb 
Friday, September 4,1981 -page 2 
by The ObJerver and The AJJociateiPreJJ 
I 

Fonner President Richard Nixon, on a private tour ofWestern Europe, endorsed the Reagan administration's high interest rates yesterday duringa stop in Gluecksburg, West Ger­many. High interest rates are necessary to fight inflation, Nixon told reporters. "We would love to have German inflation rates in the United States," Nixon said. The current rate in West Germany is now 
5.6 percent. Nixon also expressed support for Reagan's decision to go ahead with the neutron weapon in Europe to balance Soviet tank su­periority. Nixon, who came here from Austria Wednesday to see a personal friend in nearby Flensurg, talked for 90 minutes with Ger­hard Stoltenberg, the conservative governor of Schleswig-Holstein, West Germany's northernmost state. He later left Gluecksburg for Copenhagen, Denmark, his last stop before returning to New York today. -AP 
Destruction came to one of Notre Dame's newest decorative l:pJdmarks Wednesday night when a car ran over the mound displaying the NO emblem on the corner ofAngela Boulevard and Notre Dame Avenue. According to Notre Dame Security, the ex­tent of the damage to this floral display is unknown, but an investiga­tion is underway to tl.nd the driver ofthe car. Notre Dame Security also reported that a malel NO student was approached Wednesday night by another male iri a rest room ofLaFortune Student Centerand "sexually 
accosted." This incident is also under investigation. -The Obseroer 
A 74-year-old woman says she was shot in the back by a 54-year-old man after refusing his offer ofmarriage. The woman, Viola Jones, was reported in serious condition at a Des Moines hospi­tal. Police were seeking Robert Reese of Des Moines in connection with the shooting. Police quoted Mrs. Jones as saying Reese proposed to her when they were riding in her car, and said if he couldn't marry her he would kill her. She told police she jumped out of the car and tried to flee but Reese took a .38-caliber revolver from the glove com­partment and fired two shots, one ofthem striking her in the back. ­
AP ­

Women members ofthe ruling Congress Party stalked out of the Indian Parliament yesterday after an opposition legislator called one of them an Amazon. A.G. Kulkarni had asked the upper house deputy chairman to "protect me from this Amazon of a lady" after repeated interruptions from Saroj Kharparde. Miss Kharparde's supporters demanded an apology, Kulkarni refused, and the women 
stormed out ofthe chambers. -AP 
Violence flared in the southernmost state of Kerala 
during a communist-called, day-long general strike yesterday, the 
United New:o of India reported. The strike to protest Prime Minister 
Indira Gandhi's July-imposed ordinance banning strikes, shut down 
shops, offices, factories and transportation, the news agency reported. 
An activist ofthe pro-Moscow Communist Party oflndia was knifed to 
death by an opposition party member objecting to a road blockade, 
UNI said. A reporter for Calicut's Mathrubhumi newspaper was at­
tacked by strikers who poured kerosene sene on him and tried to set 
him afire, UNI said. -AP 
·I 
A modern-day Lady Godiva took to the streets of Chicago in a tax protest staged by some Southwest Side parents. Christine Franz, a 22-year-old model, worr naught but a skin-colored swim suit and a thigh-length wig Wednt·sday as she rode in a white Cadillac convertible holding a sign that read, "Parents protest tax in­cre¥Cs for school desegregation." The city recently announced high­er real estate taxes to support education needs. In the lith century, Lady Godiva agreed to ride a horse through the marketplace of Coventry, England -her nakedness covered only by her long hair ­if her husband would ease local taxes. Ms. Franz was joined by some 
I50 residents who marched around Daley Center. -AP 
Local environmental groups asked voters yes­terday to urge their U.S. senators to oppose plans by the Reagan ad­ministration to cut funding for the Indiana Dunes National Seashore. Larry Kamer, program director tor for the Chicago-based Lake Michl· gao Federation, charged that Interior SecretaryJames G. Watt intends to kill the dunes" and is compiling a list .of reasons for excluding the area from the national park system. Part ofthe dunes area is feederally controlled and part is overseen by the Indiana authorities. Watt does not want relatively small parks near urban areas to be in the national park system, Kamer said at a news conference also attended by representatives of the Save the Dunes Council and an aide to U.S. Sen. Sidney R. Yates, D/111. "Watt has never denied the existence of a 'hit list' ofparks to be stripped offederal r>.rotection," said Kamer. -AP 

Mostly cloudy and mild today and tomorrow. Highs both days in the low to mid 7/Js. Partly cloudy and mild tonight. Low in the upper 50s to low 60s. For the rest of the Labor Day weekend cool and dry. -AP 
Law and Order? 


Quite simply -the air traffic controllers strike is a mess. If you havt: been stranded at an airport recently or experienced the inconvenience ofnot being able to fly directly to school, you may have very adamant feelings on the subject. Ifyou were a member ofa labor union, however, your tjnoughts on the subject might markedly differ. 
The real problem, however, has nothing to do with 
money or union demands. 

To briefly summarize -the controllers, who walked off their jobs Alllg. 4, contend they are not adequately compensated for the stressful conditions which they work under, and! also believe their shifts are too long. The government, their boss, offered PATCO (Professional Air Traffic Controllers Union) salary in­creases while ne·gotiations were still pending. PATCO rejected same saying not enough money was involved. President Reag.an called PATCO demands un­reasonable. And :so beganeth the strikl. 
These employ,ees, however, are not indispensable ­as the public, those a.ffllliated with the airline industry and those with commercial concerns painfully learned. So when the striiking controllers refused to return to 
olated an oath -signed when they were initially hired -not to strike. 
This has led many a Reagan critic to label the President a "union buster." This issue is very grey, however. As tht: Chief Ex­e,cutive, Reagan must up· hold the law at all times. PATCO employees signed a written oath not to strike. Had the President not taken the stance he did, he would in effect be nullifying the law. And if it's OK to violate one written oath, who is to say that the same cannot hold to another contract clause. Thus, the legal ramifications of the sacred­ness ofthe law emerge. 

Newspapers have been floating many a salary figure around, and the average air traffic controller has been said to earn anywhere from 123·30,000 annually. Such a salary is quite good considering a high school diploma and two years of technical training constitute job re­quirements. That fact would seem to inake their demands unreasonable. 
The air traffic controllers, however, conten<! their jobs are unusually stressful as they have thousands of human lives In their hands daily. Every job -no matter how menial -is "stressful" in that responsibility breeds pressure. And using the air-traffic controllers' logic, anyone who comes in some sort ofcontact with the public has the power to affect human lives. If you think about it, bus, truck and cab drivers, nurses, en­gineers, scientists, farmers ...all have human lives in 
their hands -no matter the smaller scales or the in­
directness. 

Yet, it is difficult to make any sort of judgements be­
cause a job like air traffic control is unique, and perhaps 
Mary Fran Callahan 
senior Copy Editor 
Inside Friday 
the average American cannot truly grasp the amount of stress involved. 
PATCO is not typical of unions, however, for it does not hold the the standard trump card -the ability to assemble workers and form a picket line. And I would wager, the average blue-collar union worker does not earn anywhere near $30,000 annually. 
Right now, the situation can best be labelled as going nowhere. Reagan defended his actions last Wednesday at a GOP dinner. The air traffic controllers have survived a month with no checks, and Reagan is having replacements trained. Obviously, all parties have lost. 
The central crux of the entire air-traffic mess, however, does not seem to be one ofmoney, or "union are the rights of federal 
employees. 
If federal employees are forbidden to strike, they have virtually no bargaining power and are placed at the mercy of Uncle Sam's generousity. Yet if federal employees are allowed to strike, the country could be in real trouble. No simple solution comes to mind. 
What needs to be done is a re-evalution of the laws involving federal employees. As employees, they have a right to protest their wages and working conditions. As federal employees, however, they have a duty to serve _the public. The Reagan ad­
ministration is merely brushing the entire matter under the carpet by simply hiring new controllers. The country could easily be in the same bind in a few years should the new controllers find their employment un­duly "stressful" and the paychecks too meager. 
Reagan is right in upholding the sanctity ofthe law ­this time. But now that he has salvaged the law, perhaps he should take a look at what he saved. 


Observer notes 
------------------~ 
Have you witnessed a crime that should be reported? Do you have newsworthy information that might tum into an important article? Is there something we should be covering? If so, call The Obseroer news department and let us know. We welcome any and all contributions from our readers-call283-7471, 8661 or 1715, 24 hours a day, Sunday through Thursday. All sources are guaranteed confidentiality. 


~'the_Ohs.eryer_ Design Editor ...................... Maura Murphy Design Assistants .............. Usa Bontempo Typesetter ............................ Stephen Brown News Editor ........................ Tim Vercellotti Copy Editors ........................... Paula Groves T.J.Conley Features Layout.............. Anthony W all<ln Sports Copy Editor .............. Chris Needles Typist ..................................... Dodee Carney Systems Control ................... Bruce Oakley Ad Design ..•. Fran, Mary, Bob, Corby. etc. Photographer......................... Chris Salvino Guest Appearances .................... Mary Fran Kelll, Grtlf and Friend /  
The Obeerver (USPS 598 920) is published Monda)' through Friday and on home football Saturdays, except during exam and vacation periods. The Obeerver is published by the students of Jllotre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased lor $25 per year ($15 per semester)• by writing The Observer, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, lndiana465S6. The Observer is a member of The AaiOCiated Preaa. All ·reproduction rights are reserved.  

'~AN LINES IS BACK I 
Van Lines is back! 
Starts today ·6:00 P ·M· and Saturday 4:00 P-M· Runs til Midnight . Get off 
campus--movie, pizza, dinner, shopping. Only SOc round trip. Departs from Main Circle on the hour. Clip out and save complete schedule in today's Observer. 


The Observer Friday, September 4, 1981 -page 3 
Campus Ministry head 
Schlaver brings nelV outlook 
ByEARLRIX 
StaffReporter 
Father David E. Schlaver, new director of Campus Ministry, brings a unique perspective to the Univer­sity. He Is a long-time Notre Dame man, but spent the last two years In Bangladesh. 
"The great thing about coming 
back here, for me," Schlaver said," Is 
to have a place where people are sin­
cerely Interested In doing things 
about human rights and social 
problems." 
Schlavcr had a chance to ex­
perience some of these problems 
firsthand. "It Is up to me to help 
others understand a situation that Is 
very different. Notre Dame Is 95 per­
cent Catholic and Bangladesh Is one­
tenth of one percent Catholic. Here 


Officials defend socialism 
WARSAW, Poland (AP) -Com­munist Party leader Stanislaw Kania warned the Independent union Solidarity yesterday that Polish au­thorities will use "any means neces­sary to defend socialism." 
The tough statement came on the eve of maneuvers by Soviet forces in waters and Soviet territory not far from Poland's Baltic port of Gdansk, where Solidarity will hold its first congress starting Saturday. 
In a closing speech to the 200· 
member Central Committee, Kania 
said the party cannm give up Its right 
to choose personnel to manage 
state·run enterprises. 
Solidarity, formed one year ago af­
ter a summer of nippling labor un­
rest, wants greater freedom to hire 
and fire managers than the party ap· 
parently Is willing to give. 
•..our task Is to strengthen the forces of tht· state and the line of un­derstanding with those who arc not our adversaries," Kania said. "The party as a whole cannot be pushed to the brink, because it is the leading force of the workig class, the nation, a force carrying historical respon­
sibility for the fate of the country." 
He added: "Authorities will seize any means necessary to defend socialism." 
The Soviet press gave heavy publicity to the new military ex­ercises that start Friday and said reservists had been called up for them. The official Soviet labor newspaper, Trud, accused Solidarity of undermining Communist rule in Poland. 
Western analysts in Moscow, however, des<:ribed the maneuvers as "political saber rattling, and they were not seen in Poland as having been planned to intimidate the unl­
on." 
The government's chief labor 
negotiator, Deputy Premier Mlec­
zyslaw Rakowski, said Poland 
"cannot sink into anarchy and chaos." 
Shanghai Restaurant in Roseland MongoJian Barbeque Szechuan and Mandarin style dinners Sunday 4pm to 9pm 

Mon-Thurs 11 :30am to 9:30pm Fri-Sat 11:30am to 10:30pm CARRY OUT SERVICE Luncheon Buffet A// you can eat 
$3.75 11 :30am to 2:3 


you can get all the education you want and there you have to scrape to get the bare minimum. Bangladesh Is the poorest country in the world." 
"Here we study and talk about the third world," Schlaver said." Seeing it firsthand for a.tengthy period of time...it shakes you to your core. I don't know how I'm going to express that, but I know I have to. 
"It becomes a responsibility to share with others who have not had the opportunity that I've had. It is exciting and frightening at the same time," Schlaver commented. 
Schlaver graduated from Notre Dame in I%6. He received his Mas­ters degreee in theology from Notre Dame in 1969. He was ordained in 1971. 
In 1972 Schlaver returned to Notre Dame as an assistant director of Campus Ministry under the late Fr. William Toohey. He also served as director ofvolunteer services and as rector of Dillon Hall. 
Schlaver's 1979 doctoral disserta­

tion at the University of Michigan was entitled Tbe Notre Dame Ethos: Student Life in a Catholic Residen­tial Community. 
"Notre Dame is a good place to be. I guess that is why I keep coming back here," Schlaver said. "I think Campus Ministry has a terribly im­portant function at a place like this. The whole idea of ministry per­meates what we do...in the broadest sense. 
·"In 1970 Fr. Toohey was given the task of developing new approaches to ministering to students," Schlaver said. "What developed around him was the concept of a team approach to ministry. We now have eight full­time people which Include a brother, a sister and a married layman. 
"We see ourselves as a resource to all those who minister on campus. To the extent that It works, and I ' think it does, people are interested in putting real flesh on the rhetoric of Notre Dame." 

•

' 8 8 
Succeed 




in business. 
"It's a lot easier with a Texas Instruments calculator designed to solve business problems." 
Touch a few special keys on these Texas Instruments calculators, the TI Business Analyst-II'"and The MBA'': and lengthy time-value-of-money problems suddenly aren't lengthy anymore. You can automati­cally calculate profit margins, forecast 
a:••• • • 
sales and eamings and perform statistics. 
And problems with repetitive calculations are a piece of cake for the MBA, because it's programmable. 
These calculators mean business, and what they give you is time-time to grasp w1derlying business concepts, w~le they handle the num­ber crunching. To make it even easier, each calculator comes with a book written especially for it, which shows you how to make use of the calculator's full potential. 
The Business Analyst-II and MBA business calculators from Texas Instruments. 'I\v~oJ ways to run a successful business rna-c jor, without running yourself ragged. 
TEXAS INSTRUMENTS 
INCORPORAfED 
([) 1981 Texa8 ln~truments·Incorporatfd 
• 

:1
• 
It 
.,• 
----1..-_ 

The Observer Friday, September 4, 1981 -page 4 
Tax benefits possible 

IRS rules on new certificates 
South Bend's newest & finest in cuisine. 
Dine among the antiques and enjoy our view of the new downtown! 

We'll showyou how•••free. 
their money ·from the repurchase 
agreement without suffering any 
penalties. 
"There has to be a realistic oppor­
tunity and option" with the invest­
ment program "to either take out 
the investment with no penalty or 
leave it in," said IRS commissioer 
Roscoe Egger. 
The new one-year savings certif­
icate goes into effect Oct. 1. It allows 
individuals to earn up to Sl,OOO in 
tax-free interest; S2,000 for couple;s. 
In detailed regulations issued yes­terday, the government said annual yield on the new cetficates will be 70 percent of the "average invest­ment rate" for one-year Treasury bills. That would have meant an in­terest rate -free offederal tax -of 
12.1 percent ifcertificates had been issued based on August's T-bill auc­tion. ' 
Results were being announced later yesterday of the auction on which the first certificates actually will be based. 
Savers' rates will be based on the most recent auction before they buy their certificates. The rates will remain stable for the full one-year maturity ofthe certificates. 
The regulations, issued by the Depository Institutions Deregula-
WASHINGTON (AP)-American savers can shift money from high­interest, advance investment programs to new All Savers Certif­icates without losing tax benefits as long as the transfn is not a require­
ment imposed by the banking in­
stitutions, the Internal Revenue 
Service said yesterday. 
But if the package requires savers 
to switch their money from the high­
interest accounts to the new tax-free 
certificates on Oct. 1, interest 
earned on the money after the 
switch will not be tax exempt, IRS 
officials said. 
Financial institutions can restore the tax advantages to investors who have already signed up if they "de­couple" the two investments and give "the purchasera reasonable and realistic opportunity to recover the principal and interest from the repurchase agreement at maturity without penalty," said the IRS. 
The high-interest accounts in question are called repurchase agreements and, in effect, are loans from individuals to participating savings and loans or banks. 
IRS officials said savers can retain their tax exemption if their institu­tions tell them, preferably by a direct mail announcement, that they have the option of withdrawing 
Would you like to: 

0  Raise your grade average without long hours  
over texts.  
0  End all-night cramming sessions.  
0  Breeze through all your studying in as little as  
li:J the time.  
0  Have more free time to enjoy yourself.  
0  Read ato 10 times faster, with better con­ 
centration. understanding, and recall.- 

EvPlyn Wnod's readingsystem makesitall possible. 
Evelyn Wood works-over 1 million people, including students, executives, senators, and even presidents have proven it. A free 1 hour demon­stration·will show you how to save hundreds of hours of drudgery this year (as well as how to increase your speed immediately with some simple new reading techniques). 
It only takes an hour, and it's free. Don't miss it. 

EvelynWoociiD
will open your eyes. 

ATTEND ANY ONE OF OUR FREE DEMONSTRATION LESSONS 
3 DAYS ONLY! 
TUESDAY 
SEPT.8 


2:30 P.M. 

WEDNESDAY 
SEPT.9 

4:00 P.M. 
THURSDAY 
SEPT.10 
7:30 P.M. 


CENTER FOR CONTINUING EDUCATION ROOM14 
~EVELYN WOOD READING DYNAMICS 
• 

tion Committee, also said there will 
be no federally ordered minimum 
deposit. Banks and S&Ls must offer 
certificates in multiples of S500 but 
also may offer them in any other 
amount. 

In an effort to attract savers' money, some banks and savings and loans have offered short-term, high­interest instruments leading in to the All Savers Certificate. 
The widely advertised investment packages prompted the IRS, in an un­usual announcement last weekend, to say it had doubts about whether the packages would qualify for the tax exclusions. IRS officials said they were concerned that linked packages would violate the congres­
sional limits on the time period and the yield ofthe savings certificate. 
In its ruling yesterday, the IRS sought to clarify which investment programs will qualify. 
The ones that will qualify are those that permit the individual to invest in a repurchase agreement that is generally available to a finan­cial institution's other customers. The agreement also may provide 
that money from the repurchase 
agreement will be reinvested in an 
All Savers account automatically un­
less the saver decides otherwise. No 
penalties can be imposed. 
Savers can still get tax benefits if financial institutions offer a premium, such as a toaster, for investing in an All Savers account. 
They also can get the special tax exemption if they change their out­standing money market certificates into the savings certificates. 
. Angola 
continuedfrom page I 
guerrillas, and calls it the first indica­
tion Soviets were directly involved 
with the black nationalists. 
The South Africans say they 
crossed into Marxist-ruled Angola 
Aug. 24 from their territory in South­
West Africa -also called Namibia 
-only to wipe out the guerrillas of 
the South-West African People's Or­ganization. SW APO has been fight­ing a 15-year-old bush war to wrest control ofNamibia from white-ruled South Africa. 
The presence of Soviet advisers visers as well as some 20,000 Cuban troops in Angola has long been ack­nowledged and is a major point of conflict between Angola and the United States, which is trying to help mediate a peaceful transition to in­dependence for Namibia. 
The diplomatic source in Pretoria said he believed South Africa probably" had completed withdrawal of its forces, which he estimated at between 4,000 and 5,000. 
The South African Defense Minis· 
try has refused to confirm directly 
that the withdrawal has been com­
pleted. 

... Chance 
continuedfrom page I 
the word. We will have the Huddle on the first floor, free amateur enter­tainment downstairs at the Nazz, and professional entertainment upstairs at LaFortune Club. All the students have to do is come and enjoy!" 
Club Manager Hooper said the students get their chance to show support for the project during the weekend of the Notre Dame/LS.U. football game when LaFortune Club begins a new entertainment season. 

-------------------------------. 
The Observer Friday, September 4, 1981 -page 5 Guards, guerillas clash 
;I-·,, You're never too young

Shootouts occur in Tehran 
~-----------------~-­

BEIRUT, Lebanon (AP) -Gun­battles erupted In the streets ofTeh­ran yt·sterday between revolutionary guards and leftist guerrillas, leaving I I dead and six wounded, reports from Iran said. The new prime minister called for Increased vigilance to cope with what he called "security shortcom­ings." 
Tehran Radio said seven Mujahedeen Khalq guerrillas were killed In an eight-hour shootout with revolutionary guardsmen who stormed one of the guerillas' secret hideouts. 
The broadcast called the raid "the most important operation against counter-revolutionary groups" in recent days. 
The radio mentioned no 
casualities among guardsmen, but 
the Tehran afternoon newspaper 
Etelaat said six guards were 
wounded in the battle on Kerman 
Street in south Tehran's Delgosha 



University Van Lines resume operation 
By KATHLEEN DOYLE 
News Staff

1981-82 VAN LINES 
On Friday, September 4, the Office of Student Activities, in con­
SCHEDULE 
junction with the Notre Dame Stu­dent Government and Student
Runs every weekend ex-
Union, will begin operation of the cept home football 
University Van Lines. Van Lines, a weekend entertain­
weekends, fall break, 
ment shuttle service for students of spring break and Easter. 
Notre Dame and St. Mary's, will run on Fridays from 6 pm to midnight and Saturdays from 4 pm to mid­
Times: Fridays 6:00 p.m.­
night. Buses will not be in operation
midnight 
on home football weekends and the Saturdays 4:00 p.m.­
weekends of Fall and Spring Break. midnight 
The cost for bus service is 50 cents round trip. Buses depart from the Main Circle on the hour and ad­
Buses depart Main Circle on the 
here to the following route:

hour 
Notre Dame Main Circle -South :04 Edison-Ironwood 
to Angela -Edison :I 0 Town & Country Shop-
East to Hickory -South to ping Center 
McKinley-East to Grape -North to Univer­
:I 3 McKinley-Grape 
sity Park Mall ­

:I 5 Grape-Edison 
W esr to Cleveland to 3 I I 3 3 ­:20 University Park Mall 
South to ~. Mary's­:30 Cleveland-U.S. 31/33 
Holy Cross Circle -St. Mary's ::U 31/33-PendleRoad 
Road to Grotto ­-Notre Dame Main Circle

:35 Saint Mary's College 
Students may board the bus at the
:40 Notre Dame-Grotto and 
Grotto. Main Circle 
Van Lines originated last Fall at the suggestion of Father Van WoJ.vlear, Vice-president ofStudent Affairs and Mr. Mason, Vice-president of Busi­
Parents 
ness Affairs, after student complaints that the city busses did not run late at night. Mason elicited University

return 
funds which were used. for the project along with Student Activities Sub-committee funds. 
Director of Student Activities, Dr. 
with child 
James McDonnell, implemented the 
TIJUANA, Mexico (AP) -Mic­Van Lines idea in ten days. A private hael Accardi remembers very clear­bus company was hired and a ly what his little daughter said on flexible route was mapped out. In its July 16 as he fled with her from first year of operation, Van Lines 
Children's Hospital in Los Angeles to averaged approximately 200 stu­avoid what he calls "experimental" dents per weekend. 
neighborhood. 
The radio said a big arms cache and partially burned maps of the prime ministry, police stations and revolutionary guard centers were seized from the guerrilla Wdeout. 
Tehran Radio reported another shootout flared in the afternoon be­tween revolutionary guards and "three armed terroist rorist agents" riding in a car on north Tehran's Doctor Shariati A venue. All three people in the car and one guardsman were killed, the radio added. 
The gunbattles were the first with anti-government guerrillas in Teh­ran since Prime Minister Moham­mad Javad Bahonar and President Mohammad Ali Rajai were kllled in a bombing Sunday. 
The last big gunbattle in the Iranian capital occurred Aug. 2I when six people were killed and six wounded in a clash between 
revolutionary  guards  and  
Mujahedeen guerillas.  
State  television  announced  that ·  

46 of Mujahedeen guerrillas were executed Wednesday, bringing to I 0 I the total ofofficially announced executions since the Rajai-Bahonar ' assasination. 
There have been more than 570 executions since the ouster ofPresi­dent Abolhassan Bani-Sadr 10 weeks ago. Bani-Sadr and the Mujahedeen Khalq leader, Massoud Raja vi, fled to asylum in France July 29, and Rajavi has been conducting his guerrilla · war from exile. 
./. to learn the score. 
••,. Th~~~ .'' •• • 7tlfiffT1hrtUfiHTS .· ..,· ·•· .•• WEI'IT our '·'··· 
,,. ''· In GEOR.&IR <..,.•.. lffil~~~~~~~:tiZsf Slcew6 
2:15"-4:30-7:15-9:45 


AnY COLLEGE OF SCIENCE STUDENT INTERESTED IN REPRESENTING 
.Y.HE College of Science on the Academic Council should submit Name and btlef Statement of Purpose before Sept. 15 to: 

Student council c/o The Office of Dean of Science Rm 229 Nieuwland Science 
treatments for leukemia. "I put her in the car, took her 
bandages off and removed the in­
travenous tube that I cut and 
clamped in the hospital so it 

WOMEN. YOU'RE EQUAL 
wouldn't be dangt·rous," he said. 
IN.THE AIR FORCE. 
"When I took everything off her, 
Women start out on the same footing as men in Air Forceshe said, 'Thank you, Daddy.' 
ROTC. Women wear the same insignia and hold the same
"I didn't even know she knew the 
cadet positions in AFROTC, just as they do later on as Air word." 
Force officers. And the same AFROTC scholarship can be yours as a 
After I months of chemotherapy 
woman. If you qualify, you can have your tuition, book costs and controversial Laetrile treat­
and lab fees paid by the Air Force, and receive $100 a month ments at the Centro Medico del Mar 
for other expenses. It helps free you to concentrate on your education. And that's important.
here, Accardi says his 2-year-old As an Air Force officer, you'll be expected to use your train­daughter, Amanda, appears a dif· 
ing and education, and be a leader managing people and ferent child. 
complex systems. You'll be handed executive responsibility 
starting with your first job.
With her blonde curl<; bouncing, 
It's a great way to be equal, and a great way to serve your huge hazel eyes glowing, Amanda 
country. Check into the AFROTC program at your campus. toddles again, giggles w!th her 1­
Be sure to ask about AFROTC scholarships -you may be helping yourself earn an exciting new lifestyle.
year-old sister, and has bolstered her fugitive parents' defiance of 
Contact Capt Gottrich/283~6634
America's medkal-legal establish· ment. 
for additional information. 
Accardi and his wife, Kathie, face child endangerment charges, he said, despite a court-ordered ex­amination by San Diego cancer spedalist Dr. Faith Kung .that 

HOTC 
showed Amanda's leukemia in 90 

of life. 
percent remission. 
-------···-~-­





WELCOME BACK! 



s2000FF I 
I 
Any large Deep Dish Sicilian Pizza 1 Good at Cleveland Road store across 1 from University Park Mall • 277-5300. One coupon per pizza. Expires Sept. 19, 1981. 
I 
••~ble'I\9matt~ •••• 



FREE I 
Pitcher of Coke I 
with any large Monster Pizza I Good at Cleveland Road store across I from University Park Mall • 277-5300. I One coupon per pizza. Expires Sept. 19, 1981. I 
•••'Noble'I\9m~ •••.1 

~Noble,~
~l(o#J~s
PIZZA 277-5300 

The Observer Friday, September 4, 1981 -page 6 
WASHINGTON (AP)-A month after air traffic controllers chal­lenged President Reagan with a 
strike, the administration clearly has 
the upper hand: air travel continues 
with fewer disruptions than ex­

Airline 
pected and the controllers' main concern now is whether they will
travel ever get their jobs back. The administration takes the posi­tion the strike is over and that its at­~ ~ues tention is on hiring and train~ng new .a.A..&. controllers to replace the strikers.
cont 
Although union officials insist it's not all over yet, they have ack­nowledged two major miscalcula­tions in launching their illegal strike. 


w-ithout 
Statements made before the strike and shortly after it started show rank-and-file controllers, as well as union leaders, drastically overes­
timated the impact a strike would 
have on air traffic. And Robert E. Poli, chief of the 
PATCO 
Professional Air Traffic Controllers 
Organization, has conceded that the 
union was surprised that Reagan 
moved so quickly to fire controllers 
who refused to work. 
Since the illegal walkout began at 
7 am. Aug. 3, it has been one setback 
after another ft or the union. 
After a 48-hour ultimatum, Reagan ordered 12,000 striking con­trollers fired and there has been no hint he will soften his position and allow them back to worlk . 
The airlines and the business com­munity, which stood to lose millions of dolacs because of the strike, rallied around Reagan and praised his tough stand :against the control­lers. They appeared willing to ac­cept the shoflt-term losses and long-term inco111veniences caused by cuts in the number offlights. 
-Public opinion polls all showed 
widespread support of Reagan's 
reaction to the strike and criticism 
of the controllers. An Associated 
Press-NBC news poll in mid-August 
showed 64 percent of those asked 
approving ofReagan's actions. 
-The government's attempt to 
strip the controllers union of its 
bargaining rights won initial support 
at the Federal Labor Relations 
Authority, while the union's claim of 
unfair labor practices against the 
government was rejected by a 
regional administrator. Both issues 
await final action. 
Organized labor's support of the controllers has been far less en­thusiastic than had been hoped by PATCO. Aside from charges of "union busting" against Reagan, labor leaders have done little to sup­port the controllers. 
Efforts by foreign controllers to put pressure on the U.S. government fizzled when Canadian controllers backed down from a briefboycott of trans-Atlantic planes. An interna­tional controllers association rejected attempts to organize a worldwide boycott. 

Attempts to highlight safety con­cerns has been more difficult than PATCO anticipated. Most damaging was the insistence of the 33,000­member Air Line Pilots Association that the skies ace safe. 
As the first nationwide strike against the government moves through its fifth week, there is little sign that the fortunes of PATCO and the nearly 12,000 fired controllers will improve anytime soon. 
And no one can say for certain how well the system will perform in the long run -with only half as many controllers on the job as before the strike -but the airline industry and most commercial pilots agree it has worked reasonab­ly well so far. 
1981-82 Football Concession Stand Lottery Winners 
LOUISIANA  MICIDGAN  FI.ORIDA  SOUTHERN  NAVY  GEORGIA  
STATE  STATE  STATE  CALIFORNIA  TECH  
Sept.12  Oct.3  Oct.10  Oct. 24  Oct. 31  Nov.7  
1. SORIN HAll  Breen-Phillips  Sorin Hall  Walsh  People ofPraise  Pangborn  Black Business Students  
2. ALUMNI HAll  Senior Class  Sophomore Class  Alumni Hall  Council for the Retarded (Logan)  Morrissey  joint Engineering Council  
3. DILLON HAll  Carroll Hall  Chorale  FLOC  Washington, D.C. Club  Dillon  Finance Club  
4. "CROSSROADS"  Lyons Hall  Chapel Choir  Amnesty International  Pax Christi  AFROTC  I.E.E. E.  
5. TOWERS%PASQUERILLA  Flanner  Grace  Pasquelilla West  Pasquerilla East  Sorin Rifle Team  Management Club  
6. CAVANAUGH%FIELDHOUSE  Cavanaugh  Farley  Keenan  m  Navy Council  Arnold Air Soc.  
7. LaFORTUNE CENTER  Lewis  Stanford  N.S.H.P.  Water Polo Club  Accounting Association  Black Engineers  
8. SOUTH QUAD FLAG POLE  Junior Class  Fisher  Freshman Class  Big Brothers/Big Sisters  Aipha Epsilon Delta  Math Club  
9. O'SHAUGNE11JY%STADIUM  Howard hall  M.E.Ch.A.  Region;tlj)lvenile Class  Spiritual Rock  A.L.S.A.C.  Gymnastics Team  

10. ENGINEERINGBUILDING Holy Cross Hall Students Assisting Students Women's Swimming Club S.U.R.E. A.I.A./SC Psychology Club 
11. FR. SORIN'S STATUE  CILA  St. Ed's  Women's Track  
12. BADIN HAll  Badin Hall  Connecticut Club  Kentuclity Club  
13. NORTH QUAD%CAVANUAGH  New Orleans  Chicago Club  Minnesota Club  
14. LmRARY REFLECTING POOL  Aipha Phi Omega  Detroit Club  St. Louis Club  
15. LIBRARY% STADIUM LOOP  MBA, Graduate Students  

Voices ofFaith Ensemble A.I.A.A. 

Pre-Professional 
Wado Kai Karate Club Semper Fidelis Microbiology Club Photography A.I.C.H.E. Physics Club Abiogenesis Dance Collective A.S.C.E. Phi Sigma Alpha 


UNITED 
THE BEER COMPANY. 
287-1067 840 Prairie ave Current Prices (plus deposit and tax) 
V2 keg  ~  keg  
BUDWEISER  $34.30  $20..16  
MICHELOB  $38.31  $21..16  
STROH'S  $33.31  $20.16  
BUSCH  $33.31  
HEINE KIN  $65.31  
STROH LIGHT  $30.31  - 
NATURAL LIGHT  $33.31  - 
MICHELOB LIGHT  $38.31  $21.16  

Taps-Cups-Ice-AlwaJ'S in Stock Get Decorations for your Rooms 
HoURS: 
8:30AM to 4:45 PM Daily 
Buy Observer 




Classi ieds 
The Features Page Needs Writers 
Ruman Interest, Culture, Rumor, Satire and General Interest 
Music, Book, ~ Theater Reviews 
-Also we are looking for a Weekend/Entertainment Columnist 
An_yone interested contact: A nthon_y Walton at 1715 

.r~~~ .... ~~~,
loooooo:::e;o~~ooooool

9:00·AM to 11:00 am Sat. 



' CILA ' 
Ri.-Cily RaiUf6 • otafJl 

IGeneral Meeting I 
~6ell ~ CIJICfia~ AIJil&J ia JINM ~ 7-10

Ask about your opportunity 
t SUNDAY t 
~ " 'f!ridDg fa: 

t -t
Peter Kernan 



for 2 Football tickets 
t Sept. 6 6:45 PM t 
River City Records 50970 U.S. 31 North 



L~~~~~~G!J 
•. ,_,. ---_.·.•. -~1 


Features 
An Apartment for Darby 
----------------priest, tobe treated as a hall pet also. 
I need more attention than that
Fr. Robert Griffin which comes from being scratched 
behind the cars. 

This morning, walking on the 
mega-quad created by the new
I.ettefS tO a l.onel Y God dorms, my dog and I saw trees that 
had been freshly planted. "Look, 
Darby O'Gill 11 Is leaving Keenan Hall. Slowly he Is gathering together his 10ys and the relics of his burial ground. I will put his treasures, along with his food bowl and water dish, in a paper bag, and m9ve him, as well as myself, to Apartment 116 in Pasquerilla West. 
"Don't look back," 1 tell him. "It Darby," I said, "how kiind they are. They must have planted them for you." Darby looked gratified at the thoughtfulness. 
Suddenly, a squirrel came scampering down one ofthe freshly­arrived trunks. O'Gill, with the vigilance of the selfish, caught sight ofthe bushy tall disappearing on the far side ofthe tree. Barking furiously, 
hurts too much." I needn't worry. he t gave chase. Then, losing the trail, lie Is not a sentimentalist. Maybe he came back to scold the tree with later, after he has wet on the Keenan noise until I finally silenced him. He shrubbery for a final time, he will looked hurt because a squirrel wato wonder where those bushes went. taking liberties with HIS tree. 
"You're making history," 1 tell "Silly old dog," I said. "He's nc.t him, "as the first cocker spaniel In hurting anything." Darby didn t the history of Notre Dame to move believe me. to a women's dorm." Dogs, by their nature, bark at 
If he were a human being instead squirrels. Christians, f}y their calling, of a dumb beast, he might ask: "Will seek fulfillment In the service of they like me? Will they care that 1 others. I can't give Darby the new have come?" It seemsso much easier trees a> his fiefdom, and he can't es­to be a dog than a man. Adog takes It tablish me as the Good Samaritan. for granted that the stranger he But becase of me, he has a right to meets Is anxious to be his friend. approach those trees, along with the 
The first time we visited PW, to birds and the beasts, and not be a check out our rooms, Darby took a trespasser; and because of his look around. Discovering where the friendliness, I have a hope of being breezes blow, he stretched out his liked as a good neighbor. These are tummy against the bathroom tiles kindnesses we do for each other In a and went to sleep. He ha.'i staked out ministry of interdependence es­a claim: the bathroom, on hot after-tablished without reliance on noons, wlll belong to him. 1 will have canonical title. to fight him for a space to wash ln. 1 · I would not have left Keenan with­felt nervous because the place Is so out Darby. "We are a team," I said. "I new, and I've always had hand-me· will never give him up." How lovely down rooms on their way to urban to think he will be with me In PW as renewal. I was so scared by the new-he has been with me now for nearly ness that I was afraid to smoke. For two years In Keenan, since he was my dog, any place where he Is nine weeks old, following in the treated gently Is home, especially If pawprlnts of an older Darby, whose It has furniture he can crawl under. ashes, after his ten years oflife were He wouldn't be Impressed by the ended, are buried in the Grotto. Sistine Chapel, If It didn't have In the earth around Keenan, I have hiding places. I also like to hide burled the old Darby's collar and his when the going gets rough, but the dogtags. They belong to the past that women at PW would think It odd lf ~e can't take with us. I think I'll bury they had to look for me under the a collar or two of my own, some­bed. where under the flower beds, so that 
Some people doubt the usefulness some part of me will always haunt of dogs. Some skeptics question the the place. value of priests. Archibald MacLeish Lest Stanford·Keenan forget too says of poetry: "A poem should not soon, I am setting up the Darby mean/ But be." In my book, dogs are O'Gill Memorial Pizza Fund at like poems: ifyou love them, you ac-Keenan food sales. The money will cept their existence, without need be used to furnish any hungry cock­for explanations. (Pasquerilla er spanle~ on request, with a free women needn't be afraid to love slice ofthe pizza ofhis choice. As the Darby, because they will never have only fund of this kind existing on to take him home for supper.) campus, It will be another first for 
Priests must have MEANING as well Keenan food sales. as BEING: someone has to explain Darby O'Gill II, freshly bathed and what they are doing. The priest him-cUpped so that he will not feel shah­self can't tell you what he means to by among his lovely new friends at anyone. People must tell him ifhe Is Pasquerilla West, Invites everyone necessary or Important. At PW, to come to see us In our new home. Darby, without explaining himself, He wants you to know he will con­will become the hall pet. It would be tlnue to be a minister-at-large to the disappointing to me, as a resident campus community. 

Rock Trivia Quiz 
Tim Neely 
Many ofour readers from last year 1. Led Zeppelin have a.o;ked me, "Are you gonna do 2. Bob Seger the trivia quiz again this year?" This 3. Frank Sinatra should be answer enough. 4. The Beatles 
For the uninitiated, each Friday I 5. George Harrison 
will offer a ten-question quiz to test 6. The Grateful Dead 
your knowledge ofpopular and rock 7. TheJefferson Airplane 
music. 8. Elton John 
The following artists have, at one 9. Frank Zappa (he has had five! time or another, had their own Only one Is necessary for credit.) record label. (Some ofthem stlll do.) 10. The Captain and Tennille Name the record label associated The answers to these wl!l appear with each. next week. 
Friday, September 4, 1981 -page 7 


·The ''Garden'' State 
I experienced at least one of the following tragedies while at Notre Dame: A score ofthree on a "Double Emil," a losing battle with a hometown honey, and _ God for­bid -reaction to my home state, NcwJersey. 
The third stigma Is probably the most traumatic. Unfortunately the fact that there are so manyJerseyltes at Notre Dame only perpetuates a plethora of myths created by any number of"NcwJersey jokes." 

Susan Kelleher 
heard off delicacies in the Midwest. lng had been constructed. My father Even at the shore I could sense the casually shrugged this off, assuring quick pace that Is so characteristic of us that we'd be "spending a few the East. From what I could gather, weeks in a hotel" until the house was my peers had rather racy sex lives, finished. Much to my dismay (but and claimed to have been smoking not surprise), my father's casual u-marijuana since the sixth grade. surance translated into a three 
After a month of the Jersey shore, month stint at the Quality Inn. Uving it was time to acquaint ourselves harmoniously as a family ofeight in with our new community. My father two rooms was no mean feat. It near­has always wanted the best for his ly drove me crazy, let alone the children, and will go out of his way management. Every night, the kids, to insure that we get the best, even if out of sheer boredom, would ruth-
These jokes depict the "cancer 'he can't afford it. This knowledge lcssly empty the lobby's candy 
state" as one huge turnpike, dotted 
with radioactive landfills and petro­
chemical factories whose self-
destruction is Imminent. This 
depiction, though not without sub­
stance, Is not completely true. 
I am not a native of The Garden State, but have spent the past seven years In NewJersey and I am rather Intrigued by Its unique culture. After all, Ifit weren't for NewJersey, both our basketball tradition and ourcon­cert schedule would be sadly lack­lng, I.e., where would Notre Dame be without Tripucka and Springsteen? 
. Being the oldest In a family ofsix children with a mother whose sanity Is questionable and a father whose various occupations have required him to uproot his brood several times -ten to be exact -one lcarns the fine art ofsurvival. People arc always so amazed at how well I adapt to change -then they under­stand when I glibly relate the story ofmy_( rootless) life. 
My first encounter with New Jer­
sey was that long-revered, Garden 
State institution -"the shore." 
Home of Springsteen, Patti Smith, 
and the like, the shore Is scummy _ 
but fun. Fun for kids, gamblers, and 
transient panhandlers, that Is. My 
father has since sworn off the shore 
and will vacation only on Long Is­
land, preferably Montauk (but the 
Hamptons will do.) 
The shore was a great place to meet kids my own age, despite that atrocious SouthJersey accent which madc communication virtually lm­possible. And I discovered new and exotic gastronomical delights such as hoagies and birch beer -un­prepared me for the nature of our machines. The~· would then invade new abode.· As we drove past 'the the dining room and attack the mint country club -complete with clay dish. courts and private beach -my Weekday mornings were an worst suspicions were confirmed event. Among the six of us, we at· This "cxcluslvff community, one of tended four different schools about ~ew Jersey's most affiuent," Is forty minutes away, and It wa'i up to Situated In Bergen County about my parents to drive us. forty minutes outside Manhattan We didn't have the legal papers when the traffic Is good -at about 3 necessary to establish residency in 

a.m. our new house, but my mother, on 
When we attended a picnic at the her hands and knees, pleaded with club given in our honor, I noticed a the contractor to take pity on her one ofthe curious phenomenon that and spare us one less week In wha makes Jersey culture so unique. had come to be that hell of all hells, While at first glance the picnickers, the Quality 1nn. Against his better decked out In their Pulitzer pinks judgement, the contractor relented and dependable dockslders might I guess even he could see the crazed pass for the Grosse Pointe crowd, look In my mother's eyes. closer inspection dispelled this no-We finally settled In our house: lion. Lacoste shirts were worn one and were able to experience 3 of two ways: inside out, or with the proliferation of new and charac­alligator ripped off. The sported a terlstlcally Eastern phenomena. One strain ofpreppie attire appropriately phenomenon Is cthniclty. My com­termed "disco prep" -dockslders munlty is made up of big Irish­were worn not with chinos, but with Catholic families, an abundance of skintight Calvlns. "respectable" Mafiosa, a profusion of 
Overtones of Brooklyncse Jews and lots of Dutch. Ethnic tradi­colored their speech, and they tlons and customs are strong, not on­feasted on ziti (very ethnic) and car-ly In urban areas but In the suburbs rot cake (very preppy). Far from the as well. blue-blood Gros.o;c Pointe set, or Life in Jersey has been an enrich­even the staid eastern establish-lng experience, and I've;: even finally ment, I decided these people were begun to appreciate It -despite the pseudo-preps; the Brooklynese and petro-chemical factories and ziti were dead giveaways. radioactive landfills. 
Nouveau rlcbe as they were, Unfortunately, ''Jersey jtJkes" ­everyone was into either soccer, and their authors -persist. golf, or tennis. Lessons start no later While blithely sipping Chablis in than age 4. I was most Intrigued by one of my favorite campus haunts, I this bizarre subcultur~. but I was un-glibly admitted to living In New jer­accustomed to it and felt terribly dis-sey. Immediately following my 
placed. remark, a total stranger turned to me Our new abode was so new that and solemnly replied, "My con­even In September only the plumb-dolences." 


'American Werewolf 

Doug lrietzherg 
Movies 
"An American Werewolf in
London"• 
Written and Directed by John 
Landis
PolyGram Pictures 
Rated R 
Town and Country Theatre (PUtt) 1:45, 3:45, 5:45-, 7:45, 9:45 
I don't particularly enjoy horror films. Either I yawn through ninety minutes of"Woolworth" Halloween masks and blood-curdling screams that curdle my wallet with the 
thought offour wasted dollars or;sit­ting rigid through a ninety minute test ofmascullnlty,lremlnd my date every five minutes that I'm really not scared but if she wants to leave I 
wouldn't hold It against her. 
It was therefore with a little reluc­
tance that I went to "An American 
Werewolf In London" and with great surprise and admiration when I left. For "An American Werewolf in Lon­don" makes no pretentions as a hair-raising psychodrama or a showcase of blood-it is a horror film which 

a horror film than be strangled by werewolf, a visual masterpiece of 
one. special effects, Is shown while a 
The strength ofthe film lies for the rendition of Blue Moon is hearJ, most part with the script. Through making the change more dramatic precise dialogue and well-and almost natural. structured plot movement, dlrec-Of course, both the script and til­tor/writer John Landis fuses the mlngwould be useless without good traditional werewolf tale and a con-acting, and American Werewolf is temporary setting Into a simple yet gifted with a strong cast. The lead, entertaining story. Those who know David Nauughten, the pled-piper of Landis's work through "Animal Dr. Pepper commercials, docs a fine 
House" should not expect the same job In his portrayal of an Innocent type of film. While "American happy-go-lucky hitchhiker who sud-Werewolf' is humorous, the humor denly finds himself a werewolf. Grit­is not created at the expense of a fin Dunne Is excellent as Naughten's coherent cinematic structure as In sidekick who Is killed by a werewolf 
"A I al H " I d h h I h beg! I f th fi1
n m ouse . nstea , t e umor n t e nn ng o e m and Is part ofthat structure and supports returns as one of the undead to the film In two ways: one, It allows haunt hisofrlend until the werewolf for a casual atmosphere where the line Is severed. The crisp Inter­fantastic elements (werewolves, the changes between the two realize undead, etc.> are rendered plausible that precise quality in the script and 
-the humor grounds the ordinary the sense ofcontrolin the entire cast and extraordinary to a shared saves the film from degenerating In-reality; and two, the constant Inter-to a simple satire of the werewolf change between horror and humor tale. creates a distance between the The ad In the newspapers 
audience and the screen -one describe the film as Tbe /lorTOr 
becomes engrossed, not terrified, by Movie, and that's exactly what It Is 
the action. -a realistic horrortale which stays 
on the screen. In doing so, the real 
Landis also creates and dissipates horror ofthe tale -that a good man tension effectively in his direction has to die -is not blurred by blood without the crutch of stereotypical An American Werewolf In London "horror" music. In fact, the music It-Is a pause In the usual muck of s~lf cr~ed ll tension with the ac-creature-features that Indeed 
~....._._._._._._._._._._._._._._._.__._._._._._.~......_.iiw~o~u~ld~ra~t~h~e~r~l~et~th~e~au~d~le~n~c~eiein~j~o~y--•t•to•ni..._.e._.tirain•s•m•uitiaitlioiniiilnitioiiia~r~e;frieish;;cis.iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii~\ 
The Observer 
Friday, September 4, 1981 -page 8 



• 





A Com 

continued from page 1 
and the only summer resident of 
the dorm, attended class while the 
blaze -which calledfor the aid of 
ten fire department units 
destroyed St. Ed's. 
The june 25 disaster destroyed more than just the building itself, however. With the fall ofthe physi­cal structure,. the sense of com­munity structure seemed fallen. This loss was felt early on as news ofthefire reached residents in their hometowns during the summer. 
Concern about whetJ:Jer the ball would be rebuilt also increased the feeling that the St. Ed's community would be separated for good. The University officials' decision to un­dertake a restoration project relieved these worries and work began atthe onsetofthe 1980-1981 academicyear. 
Today, after total restoration of St. Edward's, 185 students reside in the dorm -50 more than previous­ly. Sections ofthe building, includ­ing the entire fourth floor, were reconstrcted in accordance with the original designs. St. Edward's is one ofseveral campus buildings listed in the National Register of Historic Place& thus the restoration bad to follow rigid guideltnes 
Careful attention waspaid to the 
repair ofthe stainedglass windows 
found in the ball. Eight windows 
from the chapel, as well as the win­
dow featuring Fr. Sorin, had to be 
sent to a firm in Minnesota to be 
rebuiilt. The chapel windows were 
originally imported from France, 

window con 200 to 300 pieces 
Members ofthe shaped and baked original bricks, the bottoms of St. Mary's Lakes. match the bricks, 
More imhnrtr,rnthll Pride bas evolved 
community. Sebald, a junior lastyear, it was ofpride among the 
community itself, tions and UJJ'JJeuro(l111 prior to the fire peal. Freshmen David Falcinelli, to be the "dumps," find the place as it the best dorm on 
The spirit ofSt. 

With the original stained-glass i chapel at St. Ed's still retains an atm( community atprayer. ' 
~--­

The Observer 
Friday, September 4, 1981 -page 9 

unity Rebuilt 
1912./iach Fr. Mario, as well as other residents, 


neverdiminished. To keep the com­
munity together, while separated 
andfostered by Vincent, Grace, and 
Hanner balls, organized activities 
-such as mass every Sunday 
throughout theyear -kept alive St. 
Ed's enthusiasm. Other events that 
promoted dorm unity included in­
terhall sports and socials, such as 
the Computer Dating Night with 
Lewis Hall. 
This year in St. Ed's, already a noticeable change in the attitude towards the hall is apparent. Fr. Marlo remarks that this new pride is seen as often as when upperclas­smen remind the freshmen to "be sure you take care of this place." Sophomores Doug Gauthier, Frank Barich, Dana Hovig, and Alan Gianotti, transfers from Grace Hall, expressed their awareness of the family spirit revived in St. Ed's. Because it is the oldest dorm on campus, St. Ed's bears tradition; be­cause of its small size, more unity arises. Tbe family feeling -of which residents constantly speak ­bas still survived despite tbe fire that had once threatened to dis­solve it. 
This fall, plans to present St. Ed's to the rest ofthe Notre Dame com­munity include open bouse, which will be conducted between 11:00 and 12:30 before each home foot­ball game. Renovation of St. Ed­ward's bas also met with good timing as a centennial celebration for this registered historical landmark undergoes planning for the comingyear. 

No hall is complete without its game room, and St. Ed's is no ex­ception. 


Surviving both fire and reconstruction, the patron ofSt. Edwards hall stillpresides over his care. 

Story Written by Cecilia Lucero Photos and layout by John Macor 
----~~-~-~--~-------~ ­

horseback with high-powered binoculars in hand. 
According to observers, the beach sweep force has kept nudism to a minimum with its SWAT-like ef­ficiency. 
Jim Hensely, secretary of the Clothing Optional Society, con­tends, " It's frightening to see government coming down with their Gestapo tactics 'and using so much energy to close down a passive form that nude sunbathers deserve are or­dinances establishing where they can go. Such restrictions would governments money and enable the police to pursue real crooks. 
Field Newspaper Syndicate ·-l. 

Editorial Board and Department Managers 
====Ihe=o~~~==== 
Edltor-tn-Cblef.........................................john McGrath SMC Executive Editor .....................Mary Agnes Carey
Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
Managtng Editor......................................Tom jackman SMC News Edttor ................................Kat)ty Domanico
The Observer is an independent newspaper published by the students of the Executtve News Edttor .............. : ..............Lynne Daley 
PbotoEdltor..................................................John Macor
University of Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. lt does not necessaril} reflect the policies of the administration of either institutton. The news is repurted NewsEdttor,.:........-......,.,................... ,.,.Tim Vercellotti 
Bustness Manager ....................................Rich Coppola 
as accurately and as objectively as possible, Editorials represent the opinion of a NewsEdttor ......,.........,.........,............................KelliFIInt 
7 Co.ntroller....................................................... Joe Multlur majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, opinions, and letters are t11e views SentorCopyEdttor ........................ Mary Fran Callahan Adverttstng Manager......................................Mark Ellis of their authors. Column space is available to all member?_ of the communuy. and SportsEditor ........., ............................... Michael Ortman Production Manager........................ , .....Michael Monk the -k.ee~..sion..Qf.~g...opinio~thr.o.ugh.lerrers ~is..emo.w:aged... Features Editor "-'"-""'""::::.;·~:;;:;;;;;,;:;;:~?~[W~ton Circulation Manager ........................Tom Maclennan 

-----------~------------­

~j)(),.tSc~==~==i=~~S===============================Fr=id=a=y,~Se=p=te=m=b=e=r4=,=19=B=l===pa=g=e~ll 
Georgia, snd the Bulldogs only win by six, you lose. 
Mlcheel Ortman Skip Deajardln Bill Marquard Kelly Sullivan Mark Hamukae.. Clvla Needlaa Mike Olenik 
Sports Editor Asst. Sports Editor Sports Writer Sports Writer Sports Writer Sports Writer S,JOrts Writer 
GEORGIA over Tennea-by 7 Dogs Vols Dogs Dogs Dogs Dogs Dogs PITTSBURGH over llllnola by 18 Panthers Panthers Panthers Panthers Panthers Panthers
Panthers MIMiulppl over TULANE by 1 Green Wave Green Wave Green Wave Green Wave Rebels Rebels
Rebels Teua AS.M over CAUFORNIA by 3 Aggies Bears Aggies Aggies Aggies Aggies Bears MIAMI (FLA.) oover Florida by 1 Hurricanes Gators Hurricanes Hurricanes Hurricanes Gators
Gators Alabama over LS.U. by 7 Tide Tigers Tigers Tigers Tide Tide Tide 
South Carolina over WAKE FOREST by 4 Cocks Deacons Deacons Cocks Cocks Deacons Cocks SYRACUSE over Rutgera by 8 Orangemen Orangemen Orangemen Orangemen Orangemen Knights Orangemen FLORIDA STATE over Loulavllle by 18 Cardinals Seminoles Cardinals Cardinals Seminoles Seminoles Seminoles TULSA over KanMa by 2 Hurricane Hurricane Hurricane Hurricanes "Hawks Hurricane
Hurricane 

The ObMrver will accept classifieds Monday through Friday, 10 a.m. to 4:30p.m. However, clas­sifieds to be run in the next issue must be received by 3 p.m. the business day prior to insertion. All clas­sifieds must be prepaid. either in person or through 



rr----­
the mail.



1Classifieds 
........................... . ........
Found In Fisher party room Saturday

I I
NOTICES 
Hotel room lor LSU weekend. 2 double WILL TRADE USC TICKET FOA LSU OA
n1ght; one pair of girls" shoes. Call3081 LSU ticket wanted. Will pay mega·bucks. HAIABAAIDING lor all occasions. 291­
beds. Fri. and Sat. niles at Quality Inn PAY WHAT YOU ASK CALL JENNY 41­
Call Donna at6771 8215 MORRISSEY LOAN FUND 
downtown. Reasonable Cost. call Casey 4507 
LOST: GOLD RALEIGH 5-SPEED Student loans. $20-$200. t per cent Inter· need 1 GA or 1 student ticket for LSU NOTICE-Any Notre Dame student who
1209

BICYCLE. ANY INFO.. PLEASE CON­eat. Due 1n one month. One day watt. TACT JENNIFER MAGUIRE 6239. . game call Dan at287-9572 holds current certification as an Emer­
·····························-········· Open every ~lass day t1 :30-12:30 1n Desperately need 5 FLA State lix GA or gency Medical Technician (EMT) and Lafortune Basement. FOUND: Silver Pen during last spring's Student Jenny 41-4507 NEED ONE LSU TIXI DIANE 277-8803 would like to organize to possibly provide finals. Call8791 and describe. .. ...............,.............. EMS lor the campus. please contact Dan TYPING! Fast. accurate typing at TICKETS need 1 LSU student ticket call Dan at HELP. I ONLY NEED ONE LSU STU al2832. reasonable rates. II you need someth1ng 3597 TICKET. Will PAY$$$. THANKS CALL .................................. In a hutry. I can type it lor you. No JOb too JIM. 8165. ST. JOSEPH'S MEDICAL CENTER IS A Need LSU Student & GA"s. Call Jack
big or too small Close to campus. Call will trade 2 navy GAs lor 1 Fla. St. GA call ........................................... PROGRESSIVE 337-BED ACUTE CARE lynn Saylor. 233-3423. anytime FOR RENT Colleen x3477 Desperately need up to 3 GA"s for FSU INSTITUTION. DESIRABLE JOB OP­
1173. 

Call Tom x8531 or x8529 PORTUNITIES AAE AVAILABLE. AIDE NEEDED TO HOUSTON TEX FOA Wanted: 2 GA LSU tickets. Call 233-USC ticket wanted. will pay mucho bucks PLEASE CONTACT: MIKE FEAAY. 
OCTOBER BREAK WILL SHARE FURNISHED 1 AND 3 BEDROOM 87&4. call Donna at6771 NEED PENN STATE TICKETS. CALL EMPLOYMENT SPECIALIST AT 237­USUAL CALLCHAIS Ah1678 APARTMENTS. 5 BEDROOM HOUSE. 7905 7865 OA PATRICIA SHEYKA. NURSE Need 2 GA LSU 11ckets. Call Shirley at 10 LSU tickets wanted. Money is no ob­AECAUITEA A 237-7275.
234-2626. WAITE AS. AUTHORS AND OTHER AA· Will trade 2 LSU GAs lor 2 MSU GAs. Call
1715 before 5 weekdays. ject call Donna at6771 liSTS-2-Story frame, 7 rooms, 1-112 baths, ..........•........ Lewis, 1234. from Sam to 5pm. To MISS MARY JO RYMAROUIS Happy Juniper Preu. Notre Dame's student-run basement. 1212 E. Madison St.. $350mo. 19th Birthday Kidde· ""let the Good T1mes
Need 2 student tlx for LSU. Call John publishing house. 1s soliciting Penn St. ticket wanted please call Donna Need 2 studentlSU"s. Chris 3384. Rolli"" Best Wishes. From me. Nancy B.
3527

Call lois Varga. 255-7244. manuscripts of any k1nd from students. at6771 lacuny, and admlniSiralors for considera­Student housing. Universrty rated supe­I NEED TWO GA TIX FOA USC AND BEWARE-­tiOn and possible publ1cat1on lmag1ne -rior. Complete facilities. Clean & sale. Call Will PAY ANYTHINGIII CALL BETH AT Wanted-2 GA LSU tickets-Call RAMON DUKE IS WATCHING YOU. from the same publisher wh1ch brought 291-1405 alter Sept. 1. 423611 233-87&4. AND HE DOESN'T LIKE WHAT HE
PERSONALS I

you the smash best-seller Mo/81/ty: On SEES. WHICH ISN'T MUCH. the Road to Sellng Out. you too could be Need 4 GA. 2 student LSU tlx. Pay $$$. I NEED 4 LSU GA"s together or apart. or
8 BLOCKS TO NO. ROOMS FOA 3 ........................ ······························ 1nstanlly catapulted to lame and MORE STUDENTS. $500 SEMESTER & Cai1Ted8424 any other GA"s or student tix-3242 DON'T MISS ITIII CILA GENERAL MEM­ATIENTION ALL KNIGHTS AND moderate fortune. But you must act NOW SHARE OF UTILITIES. CALL 288·3942 BERSHIP MEETING SUNDAY. SEPT. 6, LADIES OF COLUMBUS -call lisa Stanczak at 272-6690 1M­FROM 5-9 PM Needed: 2 GA"s lor LSU to appease Irate Need 4 GA fix lor Penn State. Call Dom. 6:30pm LIBRARY LOUNGE BE THERE Come to our fall klck·oll party. Sat. Sept. 
MEDIATELY. All serious offers con· father. Call Scott x1222. 3075 ORBESQUAAE 5, at 9PM-?... All K of C members and sidered those who s1gned up during Welcome
Efficiency apartments--100.00/mo. Near Notre Dame. On bus line. Call 255-8505 

WANTED·. 4 GA tickets for LSU game. Week and Activrties Night are invrted. As 
SIK:red Heart Par1sh on the campus has a or 259-4629. Call Cheri at 8158. Need 3 or 4 GA tickets lor FSU game. Call Spice your ne><l party BEL­always. tree admission. lew openings lor elementary level collect 219-362-4292 evenings. 
up with 

l YDANCING by SEMI-PRECIOUS House for rent. Walk to campus. For info STONES291·8215
CATECHISTS and YOUTH LEADERS. Need 2 or 4 GA tlxlor LSU, MSU. or FSU. ................... Bustin· loose at Campus VIew... You know Programs run Sunday morning call Jim at 3234. Big bucks. Call Stan. 3008. need 2-4 G.A. l.S.U. tickets call collect where and who.. .We never veg on the In· Cakes. gills. phone calls. letters... don't
(elementary) and evening (high school). II ........ ...................... (318) 478-3502 (business) or (318) 477· tensllyll Be there tonight. alohal Interested. see Mrs Bernard at Pres· Need two GA"s for LSU lor rich Uncle call 9540 (home) ask lor Joe Fournet
Need one male housemate. For informa­send them ·cause a BELLYGAAM Is bet· bytery office or calt283·7511 Paul al1143. MORRISSEY HALL HAPPY HOUR
tion call232-6344 early or late. lerl Student Rates 291-821 5 HELPI I desperately need one GA ticket FRIDAY 3-7 PM AT IRISH COUNTRY LOGAN CENTER. l1rst Saturday Aec Need LSU GA"s PAY MUCH$$ Call283· forthelSU game. Karen 41-499t $2/pltcher. $1/3 draffs Sf!pt 12 9·11.30 am. New and old volun· 8598 REUVE YOUR ROCK 'N' ROLL PAST leers welcome Need 3LSU GA. top$$. Call Tom 17&4 Sunday Nights on WSND AM &4 Rock ·n· Roll by CRYSTAL Fnday and NEED 2 GA LSU TICKETS. CALL JOHN ···············•···•• •......•..................... Top 20 Time Tunnel with Tim Neely at 7 Saturday N1ghl at IRISH COUNTRY Ad­WAITEAS. AUTHORS AND OTHER AA· Super Gold Album Hour with Gus at 9
1001 FOA SALE 1 STUDENT SEASON mission $1 after 9 PM. TISTS-FOOTBALL TIX CALL DAA 7160 BEST ......................................................
~~-TE_D____. 

.................... Jun~per Press. Notre Dame's student-run ITCHING FOA LSU TICKS BUT OFFEAI HELP! Head up to 8 tlckela lor any NO CRYSTAL ROCKS AT IRISH COUNTRY publishing house. is soliciting SEAIOUSLY NEED MANY GA"S CALL tpme. Will pay good price. Call Mary at EVERY ·FRIDAY AND SATURDAY manuscripts of any kind from students. 4788SMC.
Wanted many LSU GA tlxl Will pay t022 FOA SALE: 2 SPRINGSTEEN TIX. NIGHTI faculty. and administrators lor considera­megabucks. Call Pal atx1942 ................................................................ CHICAGO SEP 8. BEST OFFER CALL ATIAACTIVE. POLISHED YOUNG
tion and posstbje publication. lmag~ne -Will pay $60 for two LSU GA"s. MUST 2773 Women BEWARE! Today 1s the day of
tN"iiE:o-:rwociA-Tix.FoFi usciii.i wiLL

from the same publisher wh1ch brought have before Friday, Sept. 4. call JC at POATA-PAAl Yl
LADY AEOUIAED TO FILL POSITIONPAY MEGABUCKSIII PLEASE CALL

you the smash best-seller Mo/81/ty: On 8446 FOA SALE: One complete student loot· LEFT VACANT BY REGULAR LIVE-IN 
the Road to Seilng Out, you too could be BETH AT 283·4236 ball ticket....best seats possible. Best ol­HAPPY BIRH'DAY DAVE DZIEDZICII
MAID TEMPOAAAILY ON SABATICAL inatanlly catapulted to lame and helplhelpl ferat4604. 
IN FRANCE. NO EXPERIENCE NECES­moderate fortune. But you must act NOW need 4 LSU tickets dittol
NEEDLSUTIX 

SARY. APPLICANTS MAY APPLY FOA -call lisa Stanczak at 272-6690 IM­will pay anythingll FOA SALE: 2 LSU GA"S. BEST OFFER The Ghost of Moose Control
YOUR Price CALL Greg 1692 AN INTERVIEW BY PHONING 217 

MEDIATELY All senous offers con­please help 277-6108. 
CAVANAUGHATx1421. sidered NEED SMALL AEFAIGEAATOA 2.8 helplhelpl THIS IS WHAT YOU'VE All BEEN
...................... ....................
CUBIC FOOT MODEL FOR DORM need 4LSU GA tickets WILL TRADE 2 LSU GA"s FOA 2 GA"s TO WAITING FOR: THE ND/SMC SEX

ROCK AND ROLL WITH ""CRYSTAL""ROOM. WILLING TO PAY GOOD Please helpII MICHIGAN. FSU OA PURDUE...CALL WITHOUT COMMITTMENT CLUB NOW

FRIDAY AND SATURDAY NIGHTS ATI.'.ONEY FOR USED MODEL CONDI­

call Pat1400 BOOATOMAT277-0617. YOU TOO CAN HAVE FUN WITHOIIT
IRISH COUNTRY. 
TION IS UNIMPORTANT. CAll JOHN 

FEEUNG GUILTY NO MORE AT19470A8661 WANTED:Two GA tickets lor LSU. Will N.D. ALUMNUS DESIRES SEX . BUT CRYSTAL ROCKS YOU AT IRISH MORNING-AFTER EMBARRASSMENT pay good$$. Call Jell-6882. WILL SETTLE FOA 8 GA LSU GAME TIX COUNTRY EVERY FRIDAY AND FOR MEMBERSHIP INFO CALL NOW 
& 4 GA MICH. TIX. CALL COLLECT AF­SATURDAY NIGHTI ACT NOW BEFORE ITS TOO LATE I WOULD APPRECIATE THE AETUAN Need 4 GA lor Michigan State and Florida TER 5 (419) 866-4118. OF MY DRIVERS" LICENSE JULIE State. Call 2269 FRESHMEN: Don"tlorget to go to Stepan LABORERS IJNITE Ill Celebrate your WISE 289-6731 CASH$$$ tor pairs of G.A. TIX to any and Center tomorrow lor FRESHMAN FIELD holiday. Mond~y. Sept. 7. at the Saint 
LOST/FOUND 
DESPERATELY NEED USC TIX FOA all games. Please call John at 289-8117. DAY. the newest event on campus. Be Mary's BLOCK PARTY. leMans Court­To the bum In Prof. Guki"s 1TI3 Market­IRATE ALUMNUSIII CALL CHRIS at there by 12:15 yard. 2-7:00 p.m. Volleyball and Relay '"ll clau who found my wallet alter class x1678 WILL PAY GOOD BUCKS. NEED 4 NAVY GA"s. Call Jon 8892 Races from 2·4 00 and Music by WABPI 1ast Thursday and ISn't man enough to FRESHMAN FIELD DAYI from 4-7:00. No admission charge. Cotton 
FOR SALE 

' give Kback: I am st1ll offering you a large Need 4 LSU GA"s by this weekend! Call DESPERATELY NEED LSU GA TtX candy. popcorn. watermelon, & 
"71 Mercury Wagon. good condition. $400

reward lor fts return but I guess by now Greg at 8334 or 8311. $$$$$ CALL JOHN 17&4 Campus Rock Group Forming. Interested lemonade tlx 3/$1.00. All are wetcom­you've decided to keep the money and musicians/singers contact Mike at 3507 -brtng your rolleral<atas. skate boarda.
call Aob al234-6298 

the wallet. HOWEVER. I fail to see how WANTED: 2 OR MORE GA LSU TIX. frisbees. etc. Overthrow the ""claaa" you can get any benefit from hav1ng my FRESHMEN-Gel involved wrth FRESH­Will PAY I CALL ROB 1628 x1789. struggleIll dnver"a license and military ID.too.l hope MAN FIELD DAY "81 this Saturday start­............................................ ................................................................. Field Day Fever-CATCH ITI you have hall a heart and can return at ing at 12:15 at Stepan Center I AEALLY NEED ONLY 1 GA TICKET Need 2 or more GA"s for LSU game Call TO MY VERY FAVORITE 18 YEAR OLD least these two Items Just slink 1nto Mor­FOA THE LSU GAME. PLEASE JIM 3587 8391 Feel ABUSED and want to get event SISTER. KATHY: WELCOME TO SMC. rlll88y late some night and shove them ABUSE HOTLINE CAN HELPI CALL KNOCK "EM DEAD. KID. Your loving bro Need one l.S.U. ticket. Call Mike at or Dan at 1697. 
NEED A SOFA? We have one lor only

under the door of Am. 210. or at least just FOR SALE: 4 LSU GA"S (2 PAIR) BEST 2838 AND GIVE KEVIN A PIECE OF tj and 412 Keenan See you tonMe 
"$501 Call Ken (233-5977) or Joan (287·

drop them somewhere on campus where Need 6 G.A. and 1 Stud. TIX tor LSU. Call OFFER. CALL: CAIS 8360 OR TOM 8387 YOUAMINDI
6531). • 

some HONEST person can find them and CHIP3123 DICKIE FOA UMOCIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII 1 return them. PLEASE .. give me a break. 
I "'"''''''''''''''''''"''""'''''"'''''''''''''''''''''""' 
by The Ohsert•er and The AHudated Pref.f 

Gerry Faust, Irish head football coach, will be the featured Tihamer Toth-Fejel, a Notre Dame graduate student speaker at an orientation meetingfor all prospective freshmen student in electrical engineering, will serve as an assistant coach for the Irish managers to be held on Monday, September 7, at 8:30p.m. in the ACC wrestling team for the 1981-82 season, according to Head Coach Bro. 
auditorium. All interested freshmen are invited to attend. As an added Joseph Bruno, C.S.C. Agraduate ofLehigh University in Pennsylvania, feature, the 1980 football highlight film will be shown. Call the stu­Toth-Fejel served as an assistant coach for four years at San)ose State dent managers' office at 6482 ifyou have any questions. This meeting and has been nationally ranked every yearsince 1976 -Tbe Observer is for.freshmen only-Tbe Observer 
The Golden Dome Volleyball Tourna-Registration for the ticket lottery, 
ment will be held tomorrow in the ACC. Local high school girlssponsored by the Student Union, for the Michigan and Purdue football teams will be competing all day, beginning at 9 am. Admission is games will take place on Monday-Wednesday, September 7-9, from I0 $1.00 and will go towards purchasing team equipment. The facilities a.m. to 4 p.m. In the Student Union Record Store/Ticket Office. Stu­and equipment for tomorrow's tournament are being donated by the dents must present their own ID when registering -Tbe Observer Notre Dame Women's Volleyball program -Tbe Observer 
Grid Picks 
tel_.,

Picks will be slightly different this year than In years past. The Observer"s sports staff will no longer pick a point spread, but rather will pick against Jimmy the Greek's published line. For example, If you pick w· 
~···········......... 
~ 

.
i ~-Baseball : : Scores !
•

•* •

: page 13 : 
• * 
• 

The Observer Friday, September 4, 1981 -page 12 


BIKE ClEARANCE SAlE 


~tpost
CJradi~

ompJlny 
16533 Cleveland Road Granger, IN 46530 

Retail Sale 175 125 Fuji 125LTD 489 384 175 149 Fuji America 630 475 
Fuji Monterey 210 175 Trek 412 348 275 Trek 613
Fuji Sports J2 234 189 375 300 Trek 614 
410 330

395 325 Trek 716 566 455 SAVE 25% on all accesories SAlE NOW GO!lVG ON Parle Mall, Behind Arby 's 
Bobby Unser bitter, may quit 

INDIANAPOUS (AP)-Bobby Un­ser, the • unofficial winner of the 1981 Indianapolis 500 who was later moved to second place, has driven in 19 races at the Indianapolis Motor Speedway but may have driven around the 2.5-mile oval track for the last time. 
Unser is still appealing a ruling that penalized him one lap for pas­sing cars during a yellow caution period. The ruling resulted in Un­ser'scar being placed second behind Mario Andretti and the 47-year-old saysit has caused him to become dis­illusioned with auto racing. 
"Yes, I am very bitter," said Unser, adding that he still hasn't made any definite plans for his future. "That (the Indy 500) has an awfully lot to do with my thinking at the moment. I'm not waiting for the court deci­sion, either. The damage has already been done because whatever hap­pens, it's been totally ruined. 
"Racing has gotten old, but Indy has gotten me down. And if I were drawing a picture of my future, I'd paint Indy right out ofit." 
An appeals board appointed by the U.S. Auto Club, the sanctioning authority for the Indianapolis 500, held hearings this summer on ap­peals by Unser and Roger Penske, the owner of the car Unser drove in the race. Attorneys for the two sides must still submit briefs and a deci­sion isn't expected until late Sep­tember or October. 
Unser and Penske have been discussing his racing future, said a spokesman for Penske. 
"There are still a lot of things un­decided, but the possibility ofBobby leaving the team has been dis­cussed," said Dan Luginbuhl, vice president of communications for Penske Racing. 
Unser, a winner at Indianapolis in 
1968 and 1975, has been driving for 
Penske three years. Rumors he 
might leave the Penske team and 
join rookie driverjosele Garza's as a 
manager and part-time driver circ­
ulated at the site oflast Sunday's Los 
Angeles Times 500. 
"Right now I don't know what I'm 
going to be doing next year," said 
the 47-year-old Unser. "I'm not 
necessarily leaving Roger. I'm just 
thinking about taking a consulting 
job withjosele's team." 
The Indianapolis Star reported Thursday that Unser said he definite­ly did not plan on ending his racing career. ; 
"If I take over Garza's team, I might cut my racing schedule back, but I'll still drive for Roger," Unser said. 
If Unser and Penske do break up, the move will apparently be a friend­ly split. 
"We've become very close in the 
past three years and Roger has been 

extremely grateful about this Garza thing," Unser said. "He told me to do whatever I wanted and I think that showed a lot ofclass." 
The relationship between Unser, regarded as one ofthe best drivers in preparing a car to obtain maximum speed, and Garza is also a good one. In May, Unser helped Garza prepare his Penske-Cosworth for qualifica­tions and the Mexico City resident went on to win honors as the fastest rookie qualifier. 
Second Halt NATIONAL LEAGUE 
Eeet  
w  L  
St. Louis  14  7  
Montreal  12  10  
New York  11  12  
Chicago  11  13  
•-Philadelphia  8  15  
Pittsburgh  8  17  
Weet  
Houston  16  8  
San Francisco  14  9  
x-Los Angeles  14  10  
Atlanta  13  10  
Cincinnati  12  11  
San Diego  7  18  
x-first half champion  

Yeeterdey'a Reauha Pittsburgh 7, San Diego 3 San Francisco 12, Chicago 0 Houston 2, Montreal 1 Cincinnati 9, Philadelphia 3 St. Louis 5, Los Angeles 3 Only games scheduled 
Todey'aGemee 
Pet. GB .667 .545 2.5 .478 4 .458 4.5 .348 7 .320 8 
.667 .609 1.5 .583 2 .565 2.5 .522 3.5 .280 9.5 
Houston (Ryan 7-3) at Montreal (Gullickson 4·6), n Atlanta (Niekro 6·4) at New York (Harris 2·4), n Cincinnati (LaCoss 3·7) at Philadelphia (Ruthven 10­
5), n Pittsburgh (Perez 2·5) at San Diego (Lollar 1-7), n St. Louis (Martin 4-2) at Los Angeles (Goltz 2·2), n Chicago (Kravec 1·4) at San Francisco (Griffin 7-6), n 
AMERICAN LEAGUE 
Eeet  
w  L  Pet.  GB  
Detroit  16  8  .667  
Baltimore  13  10  .565  2.5  
Milwaukee  14  11  .560  2.5  
Boston  12  10  .545  3  
Cleveland  12  12  .500  4  
x-NewYork  12  12  .500  4  
Toronto  10  12  .455  5  
Weet  
Kansas City  13  11  .542  
x-Oakland  11  11  .500  
Chicago  11  12  .478  1.5  
California  10  11  .476  1.5  
Texas  10  12  .455  2  
Minnesota  10  15  .400  3.5  
Seattle  8  15  .348  4.5  
x-hrst half champion  

Yeeterdey'a Reaulte Milwaukee 4, Minnesota 3 Seattle 7, Boston 7 (suspended after 19 innings) Oakland 10, Bani more 0 California at Cleveland, ppd. rain Chicago 4, Toronto 3 Kansas C~y 3, New York 2 Detroit 8, Texas 5 
Todey'aGemea • Seattle at Boston (completion of suspended game­lied 7-7 after 19 in.) Seattle (Stoddard 0-0) at Boston (Tanana 3-7), regularly scheduled game Oakland (Langford 8-8) at Baltimore (McGregor 9-3), n California (Zahn 8-7 and Renko 5-3) at Cleveland (Barker 7-4 and Blyleven 9-6), n Toronto (Stieb 7-9) at Chicago (Lamp 5-2), n Milwaukee (Caldwell9-7) at Minnesota (Havens 1-3), n New York (May 5·8) at Kansas City (Leonard 7-9), n Detroit (Wilcox 9-5) at Texas (Medich 7-4), n 
Decorate your noom with beautiful hanging & floor plants 
Great 
Only 2 selection 
miles from 
& prices 

campus 
Friday, September 4, 1981 -page 13
The Observer 
-

Baseball Roundup 
Red Sox, Mariners go 19 
Brewers 4, Twins 3 
BLOOMINGTON, Minn. (AP) ­Ted Simmons' homer in the fifth in· nlng lifted the Milwaukee Brewers to a 4-3 victory Thursday over the Minnesota Twins yesterday. 
Simmons belted his I 2th homerof the year off rookie Brad Havens, 1-4, with Robin Yount on base to erase a 3·2 Twins' lt:ad. 
Pete Vuckovich was credited with 
the victory, raising his record to 11­
3. Reliever Rollle Fingers notched his major lcagut·-Ieadlng 21st save. 
Mariners 7, Red Sox 7 (19 in.) 
BOSTON (AP) -Boston and 
Seattle played a 19-inning. 7-7 tie 
last night in a game suspended by 
the American League's 1 a.m. EDT curfew. The game was the longest in tht• leagut· this season, and the lon­gest ever in Fenway Park. 
The game is to ht· completed before Friday's regularly scheduled game. 
The Red Sox scored three times in 
the ninth to tic the game, and excel­
lt:nt pitching prevailed over the next 
ten innings. 
Each team had 21 hits. 
A's 10, Orioles 0 
BALTIMORE (AP) -Two home runs by Tony Armas and one apiece by Wayne Gross and Jim Spencer pan~d Oakland's 14-hit attack as the A's crushed Baltimore, 10-0, last night. 
Armas, who leads the American l.eagut· with 20 homers, hit his first of the game in Oakland's 5-run third inning off ailing Orioles starter Jim Palmer. Ills second came in the sixth, a solo shot off reliever Dave Ford. 
Steve Mt·Catty, 10-6, got the win 
as he stranded I I Baltimore 
ba~t·runncrs. 
White Sox 4, Bluejays 3 
CHICAGO (AP) Greg 
Luzinski's two-out double off Roy 
Lee jackson in the bottom of the 
ninth inning scort•d Tony Hernazard 
and lifted the Chicago White Sox to a 
4-3 victory over Toronto last night. 
The victory snapped a six-game 
losing stn·ak for Chicago, its longest 
since 1979. 
Lamarr Hoyt, 6-3, got the win in relief, while Blue' jay starter juan Berenguer took, 2-7, took the loss. 
Royals 3, Yankees 2 

KANSAS CITY (AP)-Mike jones and Dan Quisenberry combined for a seven-hitter last night to help new Kansas·City manager Dick Howser post a 3·2 victory over the New York Yankees, the team he skippered to the American League East title last season. 
The victory was KC's third in four games since Howser replaced the fired jim Frey. 
Jones, a rookie left-bander now 3· 
I, outdueled veteran Tommy john, 
7-5. 
Tigers 8, Rangers 5 

ARLINGTON, Tex. (AP) -Kirk 
Gibson, the former Michigan State 
star wide receiver, crashed a long 
two-run homer and Rick Peters 
doubled in two more runs as Detroit 
pounded Texa~ last night, 8-5. 

Tigers starter jack Morris, 11-4, did not allow a Texas runner to reach second ba~e until the seventh Inning. 
Jon Matlack, 4-7, was credited 
with the loss. 
Pirates 7, Padres 3 

SAN DIEGO (AP)-Bill Madlock drove in two runs with a pair of doubles, pacing a 15-hit Pittsburgh attack which gave veteran Luis Tiant his first National League victory as the Pirates beat San Diego, 7-3, yes­terday. 
The 40-year-old Tiant, now 1·3, won 225 games in the American League before joining the Pirates' Portland farm club this year. He struck out two, walked two, and allowed six hits in his five innings of work. Reliever Rod Scurry picked up his second save. 
juan Eichelberger, 6-6, took the 
loss. 
Giants 12, Cubs 0 

SAN FRANCISCO (AP) -Doyle Alexander hurled a two-hitter, and jack Clark and Jeff Leonard combined for five RHI's, as San Fran­cisco blasted Chicago, 12-0, yester-


HolyCrossFathers 
Vocation Counseling· 
How dol know if I have a vocation to the priesthood? 
Wat is the academic and formation program for becoming a priest? 
---------~---·---­

Wat scholarships and financial aid are available for seminary training? 
Wat are the various apostolic ministries of the Holy Cross priests? 
-~~-----~---~~-

Howdo I pray if I'm thinking of a vocation to the priesthood and I'm not sure? 
For a personal. confidential inte~lcw with no obllgfttlon, please write or cl!lll the vocation director. 
II 
Rev. Andre Leveille, c.s.c. Box 541 
Notre Dame. Ind. 46556 
For appointment, 
call between 8:30 a.m. 
and 4:30 p.m. 
219 283·6385 

day. 
The victory was the Giants' sixth in seven games, whlle the Cubs lost their fourth in a row. 
The benches cleared in the eighth inning, after Cub reliever Bill Caudlll brushed back Clark, who had homered off him in his previous at­bat. No punches were thrown, though. • 
Doug Bird, 3·2, was tagged with the defeat. 
Astros 2, Expos 1 

MONTREAL (AP) -jose Cruz cracked his 12th home run of the season in the sixth Inning, a two-run shot that propelled Houston to a 2-1 victory over Montreal last night. 
Vern Ruhle, 3·3, and Dave Smith combined to shut down the Expos on just six hits. Scott Sanderson, 7-5, wa~ the victim of the non-support. 
Larry Parrish's solo homer in the 

fifth aaccounted for Montreal's lone 
run. 
Reds 9, Phlllles 3 

PHILADELPHIA (AP) -George Foster's grand slam and five RBI's, plus johnny Bench's first home run since returning from his anklt: in­jury, propelled Cincinnati past the slumping Phillies, 9·3, last night. 
Mike Schmidt tagged his major­league leading 24th home run, a solo shot, in the losing cause for Philade1­phia, which is now a dismal 8-1 5 in the second half after winning the first-half crown. 
Bruce Berenyi, 7-4, worked five innings for the victory, while rookie Mark Davis, 0-3,_ took the loss. 



Juniper 
NO 
Auten 
Hollyhock 
Stateline Rd 

Michigan law prohibits advertising price 
ND-SMC checks a""~·n
... ~:•n 
Otiginal Ra'tlJs ~~ located in ,JreJ.L,_ ~ The Historic I 00 Center ~.,. telephone 256-0707 

: •  Wednesday Special  : •  
:  for ND·St. Mary's  students  :  
:  --show ID receive $1.50 off on largt• piua  :  
:  --special bet•r prict~s  too  :  




Private Party Room with Big Screen T.V. avaiLlble at no chargt•. 
Tuesday thru Sunday 11:30 AM-11 :30 PM 


MIDNIGHT MADNESS 
This Thursday, Friday, Saturday, SALE! and Sunday Open until Midnight! 

The Observer Friday, September 4, 1981 -page 14 
Despite injuries

sentoRs--l.ast chance 
U.S. to run Moses and Le-wis
Oon't ro~qa 


ROME (AI') -The United States 

you~ Y~sook po~t~a•t-­
decided Thursday to risk two of its greatest stars in the track and field World Cup despite recent injuries.

can 3557 
World record holder Edwin Moses, who bas been nursing a thigh

mak€ you~ appomtm€nt tooay. 
strain, was entered in the 400-meter intermediate hurdles. 
Carl Lewis, who strained his right hamstring in training two weeks ago, expects to compete in the 100

r:wIU.DAY KASSIS A! SAOBID BlAB! 
meters, the tong jump and the 400­meter relay.

~~~ OBUBOB 
"They are not quite at their best," said U.S. Coach jim Tuppeny, "but I 
am confident they are fit enough to win their evc:nts." Nine teams are competing in the 

S:18 PM Sa,urdaJ Rev. John Van Woivleu, O.S.O; 
1:00 A• SundaJ Rev. &tor&• Wiskirchen, o.s.~a 
three-day meet, which starts Friday night at Olympic Stadium. The

10:10 AM SundaJ Rev. David 1. Sclllaver, o.s.o 
United States, Soviet Union and East 
Germany, the world's three most 
powerful tr:lck and field nations, 

11:18 PM 8un4aJ Rev. Austin Fleming· 
have teams oftheir own. So has Italy, the host nation. And there are two other teams from Europe, and one each from the Americas, Africa, Asia and Oceania. 


Moses, considered an overwhelm­ing favorite in his event ifhe is fit, is not staying with the rest of the U.S. team and is training on his own. Some Americans are a little worried 

7:18 PM Vespers Rev. David 1. Bclllaver, O.S.tJ 
about his condition. Lewis said, "I want to compete In 

The Best in 
Aged Steaks 
all three ofmy events, and I am sure I

120 N. Main Street 
can see it through. The World Cup is 

Downtown, Mishawaka 
the biggest meet of this year. Everyone looks forward to it."

255-7737 
Tuppeny admitted that Lewis is

for reservations 
not in top condition, and a spokes­Lunch 11:00 A.M. to 2:00P.M. 

man for the U.S. team said, "His con­
Dinner 5:00 P.M. 
dition will be watched closely on a

Closed Sundays & Holidays daily basis." Under World Cup rules, substitu­tions can be made at the last minute. Sprinter Mel Lattany was named to the American squad in place of 
jeff Phillips, who aggravated a thigh 
injury while training in Brussels 
recently and did not come to Rome. 
Moses will lead off for the United States in the 400-meter hurdles, the first event to be decided Friday. 
The cream of the world's track 
and field athletes will be on view. 
The European team includes 
Britain's two world record holders, Steve Ovett ( 1,500 meters) and Sebastian Coe ( 800 meters). 

TI1is Is the third World Cup. 
At the inaugural in Duesseldorf; 
West Germany in 1977, East Ger­many won the men's title and a European team won the women's. At Montreal in 1979, the United States won the men's and East Germany the women's. 



Genuine Risk retires; filly w-on '80 Derby 
NEW YORK (AP) -Genuine Risk was retired Thursday, assured of a place in thoroughbred racing lore because ofher stirring victory in the 
1980 Kentucky Derby. 
"She had an injury," owner Ben Firestone said by telephone from his Catoctin Stud farm at Waterford, Va "It was nothing serious, but with her we didn't want to take any chances at all. 
''I'm sorry to see her retired, but I'm looking forward to her off­spring." The injury was unspecified. 
The 4-year-old chestnut fllly left the Belmont Park barn of trainer LeRoy jolley early Thursday, bound for Catoctin Stud and a breeding career. 
Genuine Risk raced only 1 5 times, but she left her mark on the sport by becoming only the second filly to win the Kentucky Derby and by becoming the first filly to race in all three Triple Crown events for 3­year-olds. 

She was the first filly to stan in the Derby since Silver Spoon finished fifth in 1959, and she was the first to win It since Regret in 191 5. 
Following her one-length victory over Rumbo in the Derby, Genuine Risk finished second in the I 3-16­
mile Preakness and the 1.5-mile Bel­mont Stakes. 
juniors postpone 
party 
Due to scheduling difficulties, the Junior Class party slated for this weekend at Guiseppe's has been cancelled. The activity, however, 
has been rescheduled for Friday, 
Sept. 11. All Juniors are urged to at­
tend. 










ARMY ROTC PROVIDES 
Merit scholarships up to $20,000 leadership development 
Management training Adventure Employment opportunity 
(119)283-6265 Graduate from Notre Dame 
as an Arm Officer 
The_<Jbsenu 



Weekend 
Molarity 
Doonesbury 




ACROSS 36 Numero-64 Lacoste 26 Russian 1 Cabbage 37 Small taste of tennis city cousin 38 Posed 65 Hotdrink 27 Betty 
5 Is tiresome 40 Literary 66 Electrical Grable type 
ship 43 Oil bottle of 'twixt novelist 17 Embodiment 45 "Same as 69 Comply 32 Not firm ~-f---11-4-___, 20 Anger above" 33 Bellini 21 Wrong: pref. 46 Doghouse DOWN opera 
The Daily Crossword 
~-f-4-+--1-___, 22 Cut it out 23 Express I disapproval 24 Civil War admiral 27 I, for one ':'!"'"+~~~ 34 Dorsal bones -4-.......jl---l 35 Turtledove, for one 
1981 by Chicago Tribune-N.Y. News Synd. Inc. All Rights Reserved 
Friday, September 4, 1981 -page 15 

38 Spheres of influence 39 East Indian buffalo 44 Navyman: 
abbr. 45 Taxorg. 47 More acid 48 Tennis 
player 49 Spanish painter 
52 Havea different look 
53 Mimics 54 Smooth 
breathing 55 Type of gin 56 Dagger 
wound 57 Piccolo­58 Chi-chi 60 Month: abbr. 61 The present 62 Rickenback· 
er, for one 63 Pair 


Mich~el Molinelli 
Garry Trudeau 



prizes for best beach attire 


out Saturday Nite for our Al!®®~l:m ll~ IL®®~l:m special. 
Moosehead in bottles all night! 
-~//.(//4"//~"~W///./,.///{{1'1'/.-«/-1(//«-.~///.~0' ..."""/.~'/4.-/'/#H-';;;:-·;-:-xz!-t-!"!"'////hfi/h:.:,.Y//.///& ·1:~///
~~~~~~~~ .. ~J ...-. ' -.. ~ ~ ~ -..~ Y""--;--~-• 
Campus 
Friday, Sept. 4 

•4:30 
p.m:-organizational meeting, french club, library auditorium, 

•7, 
9:15, 11:30 p.m. -film, elephant man, engineering auditorium, sponsored by rowing club, 

•s 
p.m. -outdoor double feature film, attack of the killer tomatoes and hunchback of notre dame, courtyard moreau hall (ralnsite-carrol hall smc) sponsored by student activities program, 

Saturday, September 5 


•7, 
9:15, 11:30 p.m. -film, elephant man, engineerjng auditorium, sponsored by rowing club, 


Sunday, September 6 

•4 
p.m. -meeting, sicilian 'society for the ad· vancement ofbocci, Iafortune ballroom, everyone welcome; bring I 

•6:45 
p.m. -general meeting, ella, library lounge, 


12:00 p.m. 12::30 p.m. 
1:00 p.m. 
1:30 p.m. 
~ 
2::00 p.m. 
2::30 p.m. 3:00p.m. 
3:30p.m. 
4:00p.m. 
4:30p.m. 
5:00p.m, 
5:30p.m. 
6:00p.m. 
6:30p.m. 
7:00p.m. 
8:00p.m. 
8:30p.m. 9:00p.m. !O:OOp.m. 
10:30p.m. ll:OOp.m. 11 30 
= 
Television 
16 
2:8 
46 
2:2: 
16 
D 
46 
2:2: 
46 
16 
2:2: 
2:8 
46 
46 
16 2:2: 2:8 46 
2:2: 2:8 \o66 
16 2:2: 46 
16 2:2: 2:8 46 
16 2:2: 2:8 
16 2:2: 2:8 46 
16 2:2: 2:8 46 
16 2:8 
Today 
Days ofOur Uves All My Children Today with Lester Sumrall As the World Turns Another World One IJie to UYe Ught A Uvely Search for Tomorrow 
Lester Sumrall Teaching Series Texas The Guiding Ught General Hospital Tennessee Tuxedo Tom & jerry 
Bugs Bunny CBS Afternoon Movie Edge of Night Bullwinklc 
Woody Woodpecker Hour Magazine Rocky & His Friends 
Gllligafi's Island Gomer Pyle Camp Wilderness 
Bewitched Andy Griftlth Hollywood Squares Cartoon Festival with Tom & jerry 
Brady Bunch Happy Days Apln Joker's Wild 
NBC Nightly News CBS News ABC's World News Tonight Timmie: & l.aa8ie 
NewsCenter 16 
22: Eyewitness News Ncwswarch 2:8 Jim Bakker 
M·A·S.H Tic Tac Dough 
occupant? 50 Gem stones 51 Dawn 
goddess 52 Worth 55 Pig's pad 56 Watering 
place 59 Not for everyone 
1 Military 
headwear 2 State 3 Milan money 4 Overhead 
railroads 5 Foot problem 6 Elevator tycoon 7 Moroccan 
range 8 Ivy Leaguer 9 Wineword 
10 Cotton 
fabric 11 Silkworm 12 Personal· 
ities 13 Finished 18 Melville 
opus 19 Thespians 23 Youth org. 24 Polly Holli· 
day role 25 Portuguese port 
Tonight 
16 NBC Magazine 22 The Incredible Hulk 
2:8 
Benson 46 Believers Voice ofVictory 

2:8 
Krypton Factor 


2:2: The Dukes ofhazzard 
2:8 ABC Friday Night Movie 46 Lester Sumrall Teaching Series 46 Usten 
2:2: 
Dallas 46 Today with Lester Sumrall 16 NewsCenter 16 

2:2: 
22 Eyc:wltness News 2:8 Newswatch 28 46 Jimmy Swagan Weekly 16 Tonight Show 

2:2: 
U.S. Open Tennis 28 ABC News Nlghtllne 

2:2: 
Night Stalker A Late Movie:" 


2:8 Fridays 46 Praise the Lord 16 SCTV Comedy Network 

i 
I 
j 
I 
I 

----~ 

Friday, September 4, 1981 -page 16
SJ?orts 
Koegel leads 
QB derby enters final week 
By KELLY SULLIVAN nati native. "I also tried to get my high school, though not as mul­Sports Writer timing down with the receivers that tiple," he explains. "As a result, I've ·were up here," he adds, "because had to work on becoming more ofa Those players applying for the when you have confidence irn your runner." position of Notre Dame's quarter­receivers, that's one less thing to Also vying to call signals is junior back bring with them an armful of worry about." walk-on Jim O'Hara, whom Iichten­
credentials, but there's one prereq­Not only has Koegel relaxed, but berg can't say enough about. "Coach 
uisite Coach Tom Lichtenberg in­the entire offense, he feels, is more Faust and I have complete con­
sists his man under center must comfortable with Notre Dame's dif­fidence in Jim. He's the most unsel­
have. ferent style of play. "We moved the fish young man on the team. He does "We want a guy who can pass. ball well during Saturday's everything we ask him to do -his We're not looking for a thrower, but scrimmage," he says. "Everyone's value just can't be measured." 
a passer, which is different," the Irish starting to gel as a unit -the under­IRISH ITEMS: The final pre-season offensive coordinator states em­standing ofthe new system is finally scrimmage will take place this after­phatically. '"Bob Crable tan probab­there, and now we're just polishing noon in Notre Dame Stadium. It is ly throw the ball 70 yards, but that's it up." not open to the public, however... not a passer. We want a guy who can KieL too, is refining his skills this On Saturday, the team will begin in­read the coverages, and hit the fall, and his improved efforts haven't tense preparations for the LSU receiver on time, in the open area, gone unnoticed. Though he doesn't opener, scheduled for one week not just haul offand unload the ball." possess the arm Koegel does, the from tomorrow in the Stadium... 
And Lichtenberg says the Irish Columbus, Ind., product is quick­Irish fans can get a sneak preview of 
have four players -Blair Kiel, Tim footed, and represents a bigger run­LSU tomorrow night, as ABC will 
Koegel, Scott Grooms, and Ken Kar­ning threat. In addition, the 6-2 broadca~t the Tigers' season opener 
cher -who've all learned to sophomore has learned to throw against powerful Alabama in Baton 
become passers this season. "Each with a softer touch this season. Rouge, beginning at 8 p.m. South 
one is reading the defenses much "For Blair,. it's just a matter of Bend time... Strong safety Steve 
better this fall -that comes from taking his talents and molding them Cichy has missed the last few days of 
studying film and repetition at all together," Lichtenberg offers. practice with pulled muscles in the 
practice." "He's great at taking a broken play back of his neck, and will probably 
It also comes from competition at and making something out of it. His sit out today's scrimmage... In order 
practice, as the battle waged for the passing is getting stronger, too -he to help satiate the enormous ap­quarterback spot has been fierce. just has to continue to develop con­petite of Notre Dame junkies all "None of tfie four came here to sit fidence in himself." across America, Gerry Faust is now the bench," Lichtenburg states. Classmate Scott Grooms, a com­writing a syndicated newspaper "They all came to play and con­bination quarterback with solid column entitled "A Coach's jour­tribute to our football program and I running and passing talents, has nal." It will appear from time to time think the intense competition has stayed in the thick of the ra<:e, too. in numerous journals all over the been good ·experience, because the Lichtenberg calls Grooms an intel­country, including the South Bend quarterback is going to have a lot of ligent player, "probably the finest Tribune... In what is becoming sort 
pressure on Saturday afternoons." technician of the three." Scott's big ofa tradition, Faust was once again at 
Kiel has fought off Koegel's chal­plus comes in picking apart the the ACC early yesterday morJ}ing to 
lenge since last spring, but the secondary, but the Greenfield, Ohio, _greet those sophomores who were 
senior red-shirt has overtaken the native has a problem with form and ciilllfled out to pick up football tick­
sophomore incumbant at this point. consistency. ets. 
"Tim Koegel is with the first team "Somewhere along the line, Scott 
now because he had the better developed a bad habit with his 
U.S. Open

scrimmage Saturday, but he knows throwing motion that causes him to 
we're still in the evaluation stage," throw a super. pass one time and a 
explains the quarterback coach. "He poor one the next," explains 'his 
can't slip up because Blair is on his coach. "He's got to work on his in­
M~cEnroe 

heels and Scott Grooms is not out of consistency because it's taking away 
the picture." from his ~ccuracy." 
NEWYORK(AP)-Third-seeded

KoegeL who saw minimal action Grooms is doing just that. "I don't Ivan Lend! of Czechoslovakiahis first three years and was feel my form is all that bad, but the blasted his way past jeff Borowiaksidelined with an injury last season, inconsistency is there and it makes a Thursday, but No.lO seed Brianhas been faced with the task of difference in where I stand," he says. 
Teacher was upset by Marty Davis inregaining the mechanics that made "I worked on drop back passing all the U.S. Open tennis championshipshim one of the nation's best prep summer, and I'm more confident at at Flushing Meadow. 

quarterbacks, His coach is this point than I was last year -I feel Lend! eliminated Borowiak 7-6,6­impressed with his comeback. I'n:t getting back in a groove with the 1, 7-6, while Davis, ranked 179th in"Tim's probably improved more offense again." 
the world!, shocked Teacher 2-6, 7-6, than any ofthe players," Lichtenberg Although freshmen don't have 6-2,6-4.

reveals. "Reading the coverages has much time to make an impression, In a night match, top-seeded johnbeen his big hang-up in the past, but Iichtenberg likes what he sees in McEnroe blew past Tom Gullikson,I think the new offense suitsTim bet­Ken Karcher, a Parade All-American 6-3, 6-1, 6-2, in the first meeting be­ter. He's taken his talents as a from Glenshaw, Penn. "I'm tween the two since an uproariousthrower and developed into a pas­impressed with how quickly he first round match at Wimbledon. It ser, and I know he worked very hard picked up the offense," he admits. 
was in that match that McEnroe over the summer to improve his run­"He'sgot a lot ofnatural talent. All he broke his racket, told a refereening." needs is experience. That's tough to "You're the pits" and called theThe 6-4, 205-pound Koegel is give a freshman, but he'll get a lot of 

umpire an "incompetent fool."

quick to confirm that fact. "The work in by the end ofthe season.;; 
The Men's International Profes­coaches told me to work on drop­Karcher came to South Bernd well sional Tennis Council chargedping back quicker, so I did a lot to prepared for the Notre Dame of­McEnrm: with "aggravated be-strengthen my legs," says the Cincin-fense. "Our's was very similiar in 


advances, gets fined 
havior" and fined him S7,250 for his propelled him past Teacher and into 
actions at Wimbledon, a Pro Council a third-round meeting with India's 
official announced Thursday. The Ramesh Krishnan, who pulled a mild 
fine can be appealed to a three­upset himself when he eliminated 
member arbitration board. Stan Smith 6-4,6-3, 6-3. 
Davis, a former three-time All 

Smith, who won the U.S. Open in American when he attended the Uni­1971 and captured a marathon five­versity ofCalifornia, worked his way 
setter Tuesday, was never really in 
through a weak field and won a the match. Every time Smith went to 
$25,000 tournament in England just the net, Krishnan passed him. And before the French Open. Except for when Smith stayed on the baseline, that, he has failed to last past a his groundtrokes failed him. second round this year. In matches involving other 
He needed four sets to oust Lloyd seeded players Thursday, No.l2 
Bourne in the opening round here at johan Krick ofSouth Africa defeated 
America's premiere tennis event. Mike DePalmer 6-2, 6-3, 7·5 and 
Then came Thursday's shocker. No.l3 Yannick Noah of France out­
A strong serve-and-volley player, lasted Andy Andrews 6-3, 6-3, 6-7, 4­
Davis returned serve extremely well 6,6-2. 

and appeared to break Teacher's Yugoslovakia's Mirna jausovec, 
confidence when he took the the women's No.1 0 seed, stopped 
second-set tiebreaker. Laura Arraya of Peru 6-2, 6-2 in a 
After that, his booming serve first-round match. 

BLAIRKIEL SCOTI GROOMS
TIM KOEGEL JIM O'HARA KEN KARCHER 6-4,205, Sr. 6-1, 190,Jr. 6-2, 195, Fr. 6-1, 195, So. 6-2, 200, So. Quarterback Quarterback
Quarterback Quarterback Quarterback No.5 No.15
No.14 No.6 No.U Columbus, Ind. Greenfield, Ohio
Cincinnati, Ohio Cyprus, Calif. .. Gkm_bim...f'.ilL-_ 
·-...,~ > ;:-. ~---·-..,....._.. -!'f?"h.1!!-~ r "i -.·_· 4¥"+. Ili***E ++•twan-,:H1f 





