• • .Student Government -page8 

\ t 1L XV, NO. 101 an tndependem smdem newspaper serving nutrc-d.une and s;.unt mary's FRH>AY, FEBRUARY 27, 19tH 
Heppen forestalls lottery "With contract extension. 
By DAVID RICKABAUGH 
StaffReporter 
Fr. Michael Heppen, director of student residences, plans to announce 
today that students will be able to cancel their housing contracts without 
penalty and receive a refund of their initial deposit until April 1. 
"Students will be able to break their contracts and will not have to forfeit 
the $150 penalty charge," Fr. Heppen stated. The action is a result ofthe high 
number of reservations requesting on-campus housing for the 1981 fall. 
semester. 
Fr. Heppen said the possibility of an on-campus housing lottery would 
depend on the number of students who use the opportunity to break their 
contacts. He denied reports regarding the formation of an on-campus 
housing lottery committee. 
11The decision on the housin!( lotter_y will be made after the April 1 deadline., 
"The decision on the housing lottery will be made after the A?ril 1 deadline," commented Fr. Heppen. 
Paul Riehle, student body president, said, "It's in a state oflimbo right now. The possibility of a lottery will depend on the amount of students that change their mind, those who were accepted in foreign study programs and those juniors who were not accepted as RAs for next fall." 
Fr. Heppen also released the procedures for securing room reservations in 

Pasquerilla East and St. Edward's Hall. In order to ensure that Pasquerilla East will not be occupied only by freshmen women, a selected number ofwomen currently residing on campus will be allowed to transfer. Applications for tranfer into the dorm which houses 160 women must be completed by April 
15. St. Edward's Hall, which is slated to house l 82 male students, will reopen in August. In order to maintain an equal balance of classes in the hall, Fr. 
By TIM VERCELLOTII 
Mario Pedi, rector ofthe hall, will interview all perspective students. 
SeniorStaffReporter
The deadline for submitting an application and completing the interview is April 15. The room picks for St. Ed's will be by class lottery and will be 
Editor's Note: The following story is 
cqn(]ucted by the hall's stafffrom~ril 29 t? ~ay_l~---··h·-.... _____ _ 
a preview of the Student Senate races in lieu ofthe upcoming elec­tion. Districts 1, 2, and 4 will be ex· amined today, with the remaining
Residentspick new 
districts to be considered on Mon­
dormitory leaders day. 
Improvements in student govern­ment/student body By ANNEJANE DREGALLA replaces Jim Veraldi, with Peter communication, greater security 
StaffReporter 
Guilfoyle as vice president. measures, and an increase in social Farley Hall elected Sheila Doyle as space are among the issues being 
Elections for Notre Dame hall president, with Nancy Piasecki as addressed by this year's Student offices including the positions of vice president. Tara Kenney, Senate candidates. In Districts I, 2, president and vice president are Lyons Hall president, announced the and 4, six students are competing for being finalized. election ofStephanie Tighe and Amy seats on the advisory body. 
Dillon and Alumni Halls opened 
Student Senate elections are
See PRES, pagc4
the election season late in January. scheduled for Tuesday, March ,;. A Dillon Hall began by electing Kevin Kenny as president, Bob Cronin as vice president, Rich Wicket as 
Mayor Byrne,s appeal
secretary and Bill Cimino as treasurer. Pat Conklin, former Dillon president and executive coorinator 
wanes, supporters flee
for the Hall Presidents Council reported that Dillon is usually the CHICAGO (AP) -Jane Byrne something between disappointment
first hall to hold elections. It differs won the support of blacks, indepen­and revulsion," said Don Rose, the.
from all other halls in that it elects a dents, community groups and labor mayor's former political strategist. "I
. four-office ticket where most halls unions, and jolted Chicago's politi· don't think she's enhanced any con·
only elect a president and vice presi­dent. cal machine, by promising to bring stituency ofsupport." ~ 
unity and decency to City Hall. Aspokesman for the mayor, when
Alumni Hall held its election in • Two years after she won the told of the criticism, said Mrs. Byrne
honor of Bruce Springsteen on mayor's office, many of the people was unavailable for comment.
January 26, according to one Alumni who labored to get her elected say Mrs. Byrne, a protege of the late
resident. The outcome of the elec·r she has delivered only division and Mayor Richard Daley, pledged
tion resulted in John Greene being, malice. reform after winning the Feb. 27,
selected as president with John· 1979, primary. Winning the
Welsh as his vice president. Flanner President Mike~ ·· 'JDAY· Democratic primary is tantamount to election in this city and she rolled
Shepardson announced the hall's: to an easy victory in the March
newly-elected president, Lloyd: 
... --·--.:=FOCUS 
general election.
Burke and vice president Tim: Sweeney will assume office as of, Her campaign attracted voters ~arch 10. The Burke-Sweeney tick-! who bad traditionally been counted
"Jane Byrne has systematically in· et won in a field of three tickets by· suited every one of her con­on the side of the Democratic es· 
64 percent in an election held Feb.· 
stituencies," saidJames Masini, head tablishment. But halfway through 
3. i ofthe Independent Voters ofIllinois. her term, th~ tough-talking mayor is Others elected on Feb. 3 include: i 
"I would seriously question w.hom in trouble with those groups. Chris Davis, of Sorin, as president,! 
she's going to be elected by next Her ex-supporters point to these replacing Pat Carey, and Jim' 
time she runs." examples: She promised JX>Iice and~ub<~yce as vice president; DavidI 
"I can't think of any major groupKarptcle, of Zahm, as president, 
that supported her that doesn't feel See BYRNE, page4 
runoff, if necessary, will be held on Thursday, March 5. 
In District l, which is comprised of St. Edward's, Lewis, Holy Cross, Carroll, Sorin and Walsh, the contest involves Richard Navarro, a junior from St. Ed's, and Clare Padgett, a Lewis Hall sophomore. 
Navarro listed his previous campus government experience as "mainly interest." While in high school, he served as student body president. 
One of his top priorities, accord· ing to Navarro, is to develop a better dialogue between senators and their constituents. "I want people in my district to know who I am," Navarro explained. He proposes to do this by attending hall council meetings, and by conducting discussions in the halls regarding campus issues. 
Navarro's other concerns include a new student center, a possible midterm exam schedule, an im­provement in ticket distribution, and an investigation into the prices of certain items in the Hammes Bookstore. 
Navarro is optimistic about ser· ving in the Senate. "I have a lot of ideas, and there are a lot people out there with good ideas. I think that together we can get something something done," Navarro said. 
Clare Padgett is opposing Navarro in the District I race. Ms. Padgett is one of the founders of the student escort service, and she looks upon this as good preparation for being a senator. "The escort service is a success. I feel if I can do that, other things can also be accomplished," Ms. Padgett stated. She is currently sc:rving as a section leader on the Lewis Hall Council. 
Among the objectives outlined in 
Ms.  Padgett's  platform  is  an  al·  
ternative  to  housing  lotteries.  
According  to  the  candidate,  this  

might be accomplished through the continued use ofVilla Angela and St. Vincent Hall. 
Ms. Padgett would also like to work for a new student center. "Students need someplace to go af. 
ter class," she JX>inted out. 
In addition, in view of President Reagan's proJX>sed cuts in student assistance, Ms. Padgett intends to en­courage students to lobby local con­
gressmen to protect financial aid. 
Other platform planks include renovations of The Huddle, a reevaluation of the ticket JX>Iicy, maintenance and improvement of the lighting on Perimeter road, and a 
-greater usc ofthe escort service. 
Zahm Hall Junior Edward Bylina and Brian Callaghan, a freshman from Keenan, arc competing to represent Breen·Phillips, Farley, Zahm, Cavanaugh, Stanford and 
Keenan in the Senate. Bylina looks upon his experience in obtaining funds for College Bowl as a good background for the allocation duties involved in being a senator. He also looks upon his outsJX>kcnness as an asset in representing District 2. 
"I'm not afraid to say what think," Bylina said. ' 
Bylina's major objective as a senator would be to increase the clout of the student voice when making proposals to the administra· tion. He alleged that the administra· tion does not show ·respect for student ideas. "I think it's high time that the student government force­fully -demand resJX>nsible replies from the administration," Bylina stated. 
The candidate explained that during his three years at Notre Dame, he has taken note ofthe issues of imJX>rtance to the student body. Among these issues arc parictals, so­cial space, and a need for better security, both on and off-campus. 
"I don't have all of the answers," Bylina admitted. According to Bylina, the opinions and ideas of his constituents will serve as the basis for any resolutions that he might submit as a senator. 
Brian Callaghan, Bylina's op· ponent, would also like to sec a change .in the student govern­
!ment/University administration relationship. "I'd like to see the See SENATE, page 3 



News Brie/.§ 
Friday,February27, 19s1-page2 
c===~========*=================================~
by The Observer and The Associated Press 
Soviet President Leonid I. Brezhnev met with Cuban President Fidel Castro yesterday and pledged compete Soviet support in the face of an "anti-Cuban campaign" by Washington -a clear reference to U.S. charges of Cuban aid to Salvadoran leftists. "In present conditions, when the U.S. imperialists have launched another anti-Cuban campaign, the U.S.S.R., as before, is siding with socialist Cuba," Brezhnev told Casrro, the official Soviet news agency Tass reported. Their meeting, on the fourth day of the 26th Soviet Com­unist Party Congress, came amid sharp verbal exchanges between Moscow and Washington over alleged Sovie bloc arming of anti­government guerrillas in the Central Americat nation of El Salvador. Washington has accused Cuba specifically ot being a conduit for weapons, and President Reagan's administration has hinted ofpossible direct actions against Castro's government unless the flow of arms ceases. El Salvador was not specifically mentioned in the Tass account, but Brezhnev's emphatic expression of solidarity with Castro sug­gested it was discussed. -AP 
A presidential commission yesterday called for 
radical changes in the nation's retirement policies, including taxation ofSocial Security, raising the eligibility age for full benefits and man­datory pensions for all workers in the private sector. The President's Commission on Pension Policy Issues said that unless the nation ats now to spur more savings by individuals and businesses for retire­ment, "future pension promises will be broke" when the baby boom generation seeks to retire early in the next century. Rep. Claude Pep­per, D-Fla., the committee's chairman, sharply criticized the commis­sion's call for taxing Social Security and gradually raising the eligibility age from 65 to 68 between 1990 and 2002. The retirement age would go up three months a year, affecting all workers 53 or younger and forcing those 4 7 or younger to wait to 68 to retire. Rep. Mary Rose Oakar, D-Ohio, said it was "very voguish" for advisory panels to sug­gest raising the retirement age. "The American public should know that this is a commission that has no legislative jurisdiction," she said. 
-AP 
Americans overwhelmingly support most 
of President Reagan's economic proposals, even though they say his planned spending cuts will hurt the poor and help the wealthy, a new Associated Press/NBC news poll says. But the public is not particular­ly optimistic the President's "economic renewal plan" will actually tame inflation or get the nation's economy back on track. Only 33 percent ofthose polled said it was very likely that the plan would get the economy going again. Four out offive Americanshad heard or read about Reagan's economic proposals unveiled Feb. 18 in an appearance before a joint session of Congress, according to the poll conducted Monday and Tuesday. Two major elements of Reagan's plan -a $41 billion cut in federal spendingand a l 0 percent cut in income tax rates for each of three years -got overwhelming baeking. -AP. 
Democrats on the sharplydividedcongres­
sionalJoint Economic Committee concluded Thursday that President Reagan's proposed across-the-board tax cut would worsen inflation, and recommended instead a new credit to offset higher Social Security taxes. Committee Republicans warmly endorsed the Reagan program and called for immediate action by the Federal Reserve Board to tighten further the money supply, even though that likely would keep interest rates high for the time being. The annual report was in stark contrast to those issued unanimously by the panel in 1979 and 1980, which centered on the need for tax and regulatory policies aimed at strengthening the economy by improving incentives for saving and investment. Those ideas now are at the heart ofthe Reagan proposal. The committee was unable to issue a joint report this time. Instead, the 10 Republicans issued their report and the 10 Democrats, 
theirs. -AP 
PopeJohn Paul II stopped in Alaska on his way home from the Far East yesterday and was greeted by an airport crowd of well-wishers who chanted "I love you" in Polish and gave him a white hareski 1 parka to ward off the winter chill. The visit marked the first by any ~ntiffto Alaska and was the second time john Paul had been in the U.S. in less than 18 months, following his triumphant tour in the fall of 1979. The pope's chartered Japan Air Lines DC-8 landed at Anchorage International Airport at 10:36 a.m. (3:36p.m EST) under cloudy skies, with temperatures in the mid-30s. The 60-year-old pope, looking weary after 12 days in Asia, proceeded down a red carpet to a limousine, greeting a congressional delegation, Catholic clergy, Alaska Gov. jay Hammond, and Labor Secretary Raymond Donovan, who represented President Reagan. Before he headed across the Pacific toward Anchorage, the pontiffprayed withJapanese survivors of the World War II atomic attack on NagasaKi. Following a major appeal Wednesday for "the banishing of all nuclear weapons," delivered at Hiroshima, the first city to suffer atomic attack, the pope oncluded his visit in Nagasaki praying with elderly people who lved through the second U.S. atomic attack. -AP 
Condemned murderer Steven T. Judy's foster parents said yesterday they won't fight his March 9 execution, and without their help the American Civil Liberties Union has little ground to stand on in seeking a delay. judy's foster mother, Mary Carr, 32, said she and her husband were scheduled to file a friends-of-the-court peti­tion today, questioningJudy's competency to make the dcision to end appeal of his death sentence. But she said they had decided to tell the ACLU they didn't wish to fight judy's decision. "I won't have him dying with hard feelings toward us," she said. judy, 24, of Indianapolis, has said repeatedly that he would rather die than spend his life in prison. 
He has refused to appeal the death penalty and has asked that no one 
appeal that decision on his behalf. He was convicted of raping and 
murdering a young mother and drowning her three infant children in 
Aprill979. -AP 
Breezyand mlldtonight with a 6o percent chance oflight rain. Highs in the upper 40s to around 50. An 80 percent chance of rain tonight, ending Saturday. Lows tonight in the low 40s. Highs Saturday in the mid to upper 40s. -AP 
Thoughts on Literary Fest 
In the old days, and by the old days I mean the Middle Ages, when universities were universities, literature was counted for something among the student body. If you feel slightly left out by the whole literary bag, if you feel that bag is a little too elite for your intellectual level, you probably are very wrong. An important event 
occuring aU next week may give you an impetus for realizing the extent of your misconception. What fol­lows then, are some notes on things litetary, and the enjoyment thereof. 
On Sunday the Sophomore Literary Festival (SLF) hegins. There are two ways of appraching this festival: 
I ) Ignore it, since you think you would not really enjoy it because you've not read much, don't know the aut­hors, and would feel out of place, or 2) Attend it, since college is the best place to experiment and you are excited about the prospect of taking in at least one of the presentations, and by doing so hope to become somehow edified. The difference between option 1 and option 2, it seems to me, reflects the difference be­
tween the domer who whines over his social/ intellec­tual plight and the student who enjoys the disparate experiences college has to offer. I shall leave you to decide which is which. 
I highly recommend that you attend, whether you are an English major or a physics student. You can't help but enjoy it, and it sure beats kil­ling time until food sales opens. If you are one who feels that literature is for an elite group of highly-trained students, you are as wrong as you could possibly be. Litera\ure, by its very nature, is in the most non­elitist intellectual sphere. The easiest way to ap­

preciate what literature has to offer is by undergoing the simple enjoyment of expos­ing yourself to it and letting 
~ your mind roam. Allow the images to spark others or 
, simply settle where they fall. It is not hard. 
What can you expect when you go? There are dif­ferent types of presentations, some are readings, some are lectures; the latter tending to be very entertaining. Some are a combination. Some presentations are more coherent than others, and that's the fun of it. You never really know what you are getting into, and neither does anyone else. " 
So you aren't familar with any ofthe names? Then let me assure you, not many people are, and you are in good company. No one is going to think it funny that you haven't read what a particular author has written, because for the most part neither has the majority. Seamus Heaney is an Irish poet, and only those very well versed in poetry or Iris" literature will have heard of him. Less will have actually read him. But suffice it to say that he has an enormously good reputation among the critics, and you wouldn't pass up seeing Albert Einstein just because you are not an expert in physics. 
But let us assume you are a thorough person. You are taken with the idea ofreally enjoying the experience as fully as possible, and you want some background on the artist and a taste ofhis work. Begin by turning to today's 
Design Editor............................. Mike Monk 
Design Assistants .......... Kevin Korowicki Tom O'Connor Don Rodriguez 
Layout Staff..................... Mary Ellen Ewen Earl Rix Stephen Abowd Typesetter ............................... Bruce Oakley NeU's Editor.............................. Lynne Daley Copy Editor............................. Pam Degnan Features Layout ........ Ryan Ver Berkmoes Tonia Hap 
Jeff Moore 
Sports Copy Editors ...........Skip Desjardin 
Chris Needles Typist .............................. Marilyn Broderick Systems Control ..................... Marty Hynes ND Day Editor.. ........ Ryan Ver Berkmoes S.WC Day Editor.................. Eileen Murphy Ad Design ................ Woody &Joe & Anne Photographers ............................. Anne Fink 
Helen Odar 
The Obaervtr (USPS 598 920) Is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Ob1erver Is published by the students of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $20 per year ($10 per semester) by writing The Ob1erver, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame. Indiana 
46556. 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 


Features page for a listing of authors and their day of presentation. Read the brief biography and background attached to each, and on that basis choose the one or two you think you might be interested in seeing. Next, go to the library's reserve book room and hang out for a while with one ofthe author's works, many ofwhich are reserved there for that purpose at this very moment, and sample what they have to offer. This will make you more knowledgable than half the people who will be in attendance that night. Additionally, when asked if you "have ever read much Seamus Heaney," you may reply: ''I'm familiar with his work." This is the standard and 
appropriate literary cocktail party dialogue, and practic­ing this exchange will stand you in good stead for any literary encounter. 

If you really enjoy the presentation and you would like to meet the author, a reception follows each presentation, and you are cordially invited. Don't feel 

· uptight about going. The conversation is pretty nor­mal and you may just meet someone there who is doing the same adventuresome thing you are. 
And if you really want to be thorough, read what hap­f' ~· pened at the previous night's presentation here in The Observer. We have some of our best reporters covering the event each year because we consider it very important news. The authors who come here are well known nationally and internationally, and that they 
are here at all is a novel occurence for this university. But, more importantly, we consider the substance of what they have to say a reading priority for those who profess to be here for an education. You may find that a particular author opens new vistas of thought for you, or you may find yourself in heated disagreement with the views they express. In either case, the experience of formulating an opinion one way or the other is one of the most valuable talents you can develop while in col­lege, and if you do not develop that talent your educa­tion will be lacking in a very fundamental way. 
Literature is at the very heart ofour understanding of ourselves, our world and our history. It is a mode of communication, a method ofreflection and an exercise in understanding that cannot be duplicated by any ot­her intellectual experience. No wonder it formed the basis ofeducation when universities were conceived in the middle ages: it still does, but our shallow, modern society retains that fact as one of its best kept secrets. Get in on it this week. 
AT THE N 

Thursday Feb. 26  
Lyons Hall Talent Show  10:00-12:00  
Friday Feb. 27  
Holthouse  9:00-10:30  
Forecast  II :00 -?  
Saturday Feb. 28  
Waiting For Now  9:00-?  

(Jazz from Keenan Review) DARBY'S WILL BE OPEN 

.. .•· 
• 
The Observer Friday, February 27, 1981 -page 3 
..Senate
• 
to the Senate, said Ms. Corbett. The people in there, we may as well hang
·
continuedfrom page 1 
candidate recognizes the need for this program up," Ms. Corbett Senate be given some standing by more interhall activity, and to 
stated. the Administration regarding direct promote this Ms. Corbett suggested 
Ms. Corbett faces Tom Weithman answers to proposals," Callaghan a "board to keep me informed ofthe 
in the District 4 race. Weithman lost said. quad." In addition to such a board, 
a close contest ro Jeff Newby in last The candidate agrees with the Ms. Corbett plans to attend the hall semester's election. presence of a student dU' ing ses­council meetings in her district. 
Weithman termed his presentsions of the Board of Trustees, but Integrating the new residents of as "active". "I think I've
campaignCallaghan would like to see that spot Pasquerillas East and West into the 
met most of the students in this dis­filled by the student body president. University is also important to Ms. 
trict," Weithman explained. "The SBP has the largest overview Corbett. "I'd like to see the women 
The candidate viewed this as an regarding student concerns," Callag­getting involved," she explained. 
important qualification for servinghan explained. Ms. Corbett supports the idea ofa 
in the Senate. "Its important that stu­Callaghan supports a return of new student center, particularly one 
dents in the district should be in section parties, "provided the rights that could be housed in one of the direct touch with their senator," of others in the section are not several campus buildings soon to be Weithman pointed out. imposed upon," and an investigation vacated. With regard to on-campus Weithman views the Student 
into the Bookstore's prices. crime, the candidate would like to Senate as "a good opportunity for 
Residents of Flanner, Grace and institute a "neighborhood crime the Administration to hear the voice Pasquerilla West will choose be­watch" program to cut down on .ofthe students." A laundry room for tween Karen Corbett, a P-W sopho­dorm break-ins. men in the North-East Quad area, more, and Torn Weithrnan, a juniGr According to Ms. Corbett, it is im-and, keg parties in dorms with iJde­from Grace in the District 4 Senate portant that "the Senate reaches its quate social space are among the contest. full potential" in its first full-year student needs, according to Weith­With the quads full offrisbees, baseballs, and footballs, this stu­
Ms. Corbett, who transferred to term. "If we don't get responsible man. dent takes safe refuge in the field bouse. (photo by Anne Fink) Notre Dame last fall, served as an off­campus member ofSBP Paul Riehle's 
.....¥¥¥¥¥-¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥J *******************,..:
cabinet last semester. Her role in the 
cabinet included writing an off­~ 1950sDance Contest 1C ~ , ~ 
campus handbook, to be distributed next year, and compiling crime 
ir -. at halftime of: --~ ~ ~ 
statistics for the Administration. In addition, Ms. Corbett actively cam­-i(. ··~ ND-Hlinoi..f·w&men'sgame ~ iC iC paigned for the Student Senate ~.. Personals ~ iC iC referendum last fall. According to Ms. Corbett, as a resident ofP-W, she has been involved in gc::Hing the new 
~A;;:: Prizest;:~k &Akl ~ OUR SPECIALTY ~ 
dorm "on its feet," helping with liturgies and social activities. 
~ Saturday; Feb. 28·:-Farrell's -tc ~ EXTRA LARGE ~ 
A unified East Quad would be one 
of her primary objectives if elected .........................­
~ 
iC -iC 
GET MOTIVATEDIII --iC i 
APPLICATIONS AVAILABLE FOR POSITIONS IN NEXT 
-
YEAR'S STUDENT UNION I~ iC 
iC ~ ..... -+social commissioner ~ iC .......... academic commissioner -tc Our Specialty using fresh sliced ~ ..... -+contemporary arts commissione ! apples topped with a sugar cinnamon -tc 
iC glaze never surpassed! iC 
.......... concerts commissioner ..........services commissioner ~ SHOOT ie --publicity manager I 
l
~ DOWN THE ie 
applications may be ~ FLYERS ~ l 
1
icked up in the STUDENT iC * ~ 
~ iC ,UNION offices, lnd floor LAFORTUNE iC U·S· 31 (Dixieway 1North in Roseland) iC ~ across from • iC 
~ ~I
and are due FRIDAY MARCH 6 iC 
~ Holiday Inn iC 
FOR ANY QUESTIONS CALL 7757 AND 
~ open at 6:30 am 7days a week ~ •*****************~ 
J
~-----------------------------------------------------------------------------_. 


11111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 
ARE YOU ENGAGED 
TO BE mARRIED 
If you are planning to participate in Marriage Preparation through the Campus Ministry program, sign-ups will end on Monday, March 9. 
For more information or sign-up stop at the campus Ministry Office, 
103 Library, or call 6536.
IlL_____.....________________... 


The Observer Friday, February 27, 1981 -page 4 
LLEGHENY LUDLUM STEEL CORP. 
COUNTRY'S LEADING PRODUCER OF SPECIALTV STEELS 
NTERVIEWING ON CAMPUS 

MARCH 4 
CAREER IN ALES/MARKETIN 

• 
t t••KANSAS •• t .t 
~ iC ~ .ie. ~ ~ at the ND ACC ~ ~ ~ iC Ftlde1y ffiatch 27th ~ iC 
~ iC . ~ iC 
~ ie I ~ iC
iC Tickets go on SQ e: iC iC ~~nday march 2nd 9:0~ ~ ~ ** iC
~ ** S9.00/J8.00 ~ ~
~ ACC **Qnct..SU Ticket offices ~
~ 
~ ** ~ 
~ * ~ 
~ Student Lott? ~ t Sunday march 1st *7~_;>Pm ~ ~ LQFottune BCllltoom ** ~ 
: BRING STUDENT ID *...t 

.Byrne 
continuedfrom page 1 good work she does." firefighting unions they'd get their The blacks seem to be the people first contracts (the city ~as never Mrs. Byrne has angered most. had collective bargaining); but the "As far as blacks were concerned, firefighters won their battle only af­they were just hoping against all ter a bitter 24-day strike and the odds that she would turn out to be police are still without a contract. an angel in disguise," Renault Robin­
She vowed to steerclear ofthe old son, head of the Afro-American patronage system, remarks which Police League, said. "She turned out led independent supporters to hope not to be that person." for new faces at City Hall and an end Robinson, also a member of the to the remnants of the Daley Chicago Housing Authority, said the machine. But many of the people mayor has repeatedly insulted who ran the city under Daley are still blacks by failing to improve public on the job. housing, by pushing for a white 
She appointed a new school board school board president and by dum­with a black as president, which was ping the black school board mem­applauded. But she also removed bers. two blacks from the 11-member "I think the black community 
board, which governs a district that thinks she's fickle and a racist," he is more than 60 percent black. said. 
Pointing to the school board deci­But Paul McGrath, a political ad­sion, Rose said it exemplified the v t iser to the mayor, disagrees. Mrs. way the mayor had alienated many Byrne, he said, "has very good 
ofthose who got her into office: "she popularity in the black community. has the capacity to foul up even the Some ofthe (black) leaders trying to 
LIVE ENTERTAINMENT 
FRIDAY & SATURDAY 9:30pm to 1:30om PETER & DAVID DUNCAN open Monday thru Saturday ~ 1:OOam to 3:00a serving lunch 11 :30 to 
2:30 
cocktail hour 4 to 7 $.60 MICH'S $.75 COCKTAILS 
(any kind of liquor) 
RTIO'S IRISH PU 
4609 Grape Road. Mishawaka (JM.S. Plaza) 
between Edison & Douglas 
Sli. IL 
OGANIZATIONAL MEETING 
"'
~  ~  
•  
Sunday  March 1st  7:00 pm  

Lafortune Little Theater 
CAREER/MAJOR SEMINARS 
Come hear Notre Dame Alumni speak about choosing maiors and careers, where? 
127 Nieuwland science hall 7:3U pm 
MONDAY, 2 MARCH ARTS & LETTERS TUESDAY, 3 MARCH BUSINESS 
WEDNESDAY, 4 MARCH  LAW  
THURSDAY, 5 MARCH  SCIENCE  
sponsered  

by the NO club of St. Joseph Valley and Student -Alumni Relations Group 
make hay are out of step with what 
the people are saying." 
Rep. Harold Washington, a black Democrat who once supported the mayor, now charges that Mrs. Byrne has tried to racially polarize the city. He says, "There's no question that from the black community will come a strong candidate in 1983." 
Masini says his group is also looking for challengers. 
"The reason that independent voters voted for her was they wanted a change.... They wanted to see some fresh air around City Hall," Masini said. "She presented her can­didacy as an alternative, as one that would challenge the old ways of doing business." 
But, he said, the mayor "seems to be going out ofher way to cozy up to the old political elements around City Hall." The independents "thought she would be a reformer," he added. "By and large we were fooled." 
But McGrath disagrees: "it is an open administration. There is no ele­ment ofsociety that is shut out, that doesn't have a voice." 
Despite his other criticisms, Rose said his former boss is following through on her promise to develop better relations with community groups. 
Some, sue a~ the Organization of the Northeast, a coalition of about 100 community associations, say they feel her administration is foot­dragging on special concerns, such as fighting arson. 
ButJoseph Cicero, head ofa coali­tion called the North River Commis­sion, says the mayor revitalization. 
"I dont want it to sound like a love affair," he said. "But we've seen more city-neighborhood relations in the past two years than in the last 20." 
McGrath says the mayor's detrac­tors should look back two years before they start looking for another candidate. 
"You show me any political 
group, any community group, any 
union group that wants to go back to 
what it was," he said. "There is not a 
single thing they can pit to that was 
hetter before no one wants to turn 
the clock hack." 
.Pres 
continuedfrompage 1 
Faulhaber, president and vice presi­dent respectively, in that hall elec­tion held Feb. 17. 
Several halls are still in the process of completing elections at this time. Howard Hall has five tick­ets presently seeking the presiden­tial position, they include: Paul Murphy and Craig Price; Mark Schulte and Matthew McCarty; Shawn Layden andJohn Dorin;John Ogren and Tim Bruggenman; Kevin Moffitt and David Mattei. Dan Briceland, Howard Hall president, reported the election date to be March 10. Maureen Mara, president of Lewis Hall, has reported that hall elections will also take place on this date with nominations due March 4. 
Holy Cross and Grace Halls are also in the midst ofthe campaigning process. Holy Cross has three tickets of Tirri Cogan -Kent lding; Brian Kane -Marlon Williams and Rob Golden -Joe Wessley all seeking to replace current President Matt Pankow. Grace Hall has two can­didates running for president -Bob Cozie and Mike Burten. Paul Rafferty is the present president of Grace. Elections will take place in both of these halls on March 3. 
Two halls elected new officers yesterday. The Breen Phillips ticket of Jane Barber as president, Mary Butchko as vice president, and 
See PRES, page 5 
I
• ~ 
I 
The Observer Friday, February 27, 1981 -page 5 
Treats burns 
Doctors grow test tube skin 

CAMBRIDGE, Mass. (AP) -For the first time, doctors have grown a living replica ofhuman skin in a test tube that they believe will per­manently cover the wounds ofburn victims. 
The first experimental human transplant of the material, called "skin-equivalent tissue," was con­ducted Tuesday at Massachusetts In­stitute of Technology, where it was 
.Pres 
continuedfrom page 4 
Kathy Coughlin as secretary were selected as well as Jack McKenna and Mike Murphy of Pangborn. These tickets replaced Debbie Smith and Mike Martin respectively. 
A number of hall presidents have planned to hold elections on March 
9. These include Keenan's Bill Car­son, and Cavanaugh's Tom Ahearn who will hold a candidates' meeting on March 2. 
Last night Fisher Hall president Bob Terify conducted a candidates' meeting. Both Carroll and Walsh Halls are still in the nominating process for hall positions. 
Halls left to hold elections after break are: Morrissey, Badin and St. Ed's. 
WYCHERLEY'S 
developed. A report on earlier animal experiments with the test tube skin was published in Friday's issue ofthe journal.Science. 
Unlike artificial skin, which must eventually be replaced with real skin from the victim's own body, doctors say this material will cover the wound permanently and never have to be removed. 
The unique material is grown in a test tube from a tiny sample of the eventual recipient's own skin, so it will not be attacked and rejected by the patient's body. 
"This is the first time that a full-thickness, living skin has been made in the laboratory and transplanted," Eugene Bell, who directed the development, said in an interview. 
Bell, an MIT biologist, conducted the work with doctors from the Shriners Burns Institute in Boston. 
Bell said that ifthe current experi­ment on a healthy volunteer is sue­cessful, tests of the new skin will begin soon on patients at Beth Israel Hospital in Boston. 
It eventually may be possible to grow many other organs in the test tube, he said. 
Currently it takes about one month to grow one square foot of skin, Bell said. A smaller patch takes about two weeks. 
He said many burn victims may be 
, able to survive with artificial skin coverings until the new permanent skin can be grown in the test tube and emplanted on their wounds. 
ACOUNTRY WIFE february 27 S 28 
o'laughlin auditorium Spm 

tickets: $2.50 
eservations: 
284-4176 
I 
I! 
II 
II 

gut,st 
·dire~~tcr 
FRANK CANINO 
"good luck in the bouts 
NASC 
and 
ONES 

t '' 
: 
•
: will hold an ADMISSION DEGREE 
: 
: sunday march I-...-... 2:00pm•• All Catholic men, 18 years or older
•: are eligible for membership
• 
Dues must accompany your application: 
:• jacket and tie requested
•
: K of C Hall 

Consider a truly HUMANISTIC EDUCATION 
GENERAL PROGRAM OF LIBERAL STUDIES 

' . 
Friday, February 27, 1981 -page 6

eatures 
Sophomore Literary Festival Opens Doors 
\ \ 
U
nder the chairmanship of)ane Barber, a group ofcurrent sophomores began organizing for this year's Sophomore
t 
Literary Festival a year ago. The theme ofthis year's festival is
\ 
"Doors." Barber writes"...we unconsciously moved through
\ 
\ our everyday doors, oblivious to the human experiences lying between each entry and exit...the 1981 Sophomore 
,\ 
Literary Festival wishes to open those doors, releasing the
'· 
human experience...humanity writes the books and winds the truthful threads ofhuman experience into their very bin· dings. So turn the pages, open the doors." 
I The committee wishes to thank the Student Union for its 
\ ( grant of over $12,000, and hopes the student body enjoys 
L. the range ofpoets, playwrights, and novelists sharing their .\ works in the I 981 Festival. 
\ 
Seamus Heaney 

Workshop: March 1,
I
I 
3:30p.m. 
Reading: March 1,
' 
7:30p.m.
~ 
( "Words as bearers ofhistory and mystery began to invite \ me," explained Seamus Heaney after the publication ofhis 
l 
first collection of poetry, Death ofa Naturalist ( 1966). 
Critical praise for this young Irish poet has been remarkable, 
and he has been acclaimed as one ofthe foremost poets 
writing in the English language. Robert Lowell went so far as 
\ to call Seamus Heaney "Ireland's greatest poet since Yeats." l Irish history and tradition subtly blend with ordinary and ( daily experiences in his works, pr,esenting, as Richard Murphy stated, "a coherent vision oflreland, past and present." 
I ( 
' Born in 1939 in Northern Ireland, Seamus Heaney was brought up on a farm in a town called Mossbawn in County Derry, the eldest son of nine children. He attended Queen's University in Belfast, where he studied English language and} literature under Gerard Manley Hopkins. The combination of a rural boyhood and an expertise in the English language elicits vivid images from the printed page. In Heaney's poetry, landscapes, fishermen, religion, farmers, and even potatoes arc thematic sources of inspiration. Seamus Heaney's prizes include the Eric Gregory Award, 1966; the E. M. Forester Award; the Irish Academy of Letters Award; the Somerset Maugham Award; the American Irish Foundation's Literary Award; the DuffCooper Award; and the 1976 W. H. Smith Annual literary Award. His publica­tions includeDeath ofa Naturalist (I 966 ),Door intoDark ( 1969), Boy Driving His Father to Confession ( 1970), Wintering Out ( 1972 ), and North ( 1975). 
Ed Burley 
Sally Fitzgerald 

Workshop: March 3, 
~· 
4:00p.m.. 
Reading: March 3, 
11:00 a.m. 
Sally Fitzgerald is the authorofthe current best-seller and winner ofthe Christopher Award, Tbe Habit ofBetng. Born in 1916 in Vernon, Texa'i, she attended Stevens College and then the University ofSouthern California, where she graduated. The mother ofsix children, Fitzgerald has basical­ly been a "housewife all her life" until her editing career 
· began. Her brilliant job ofediting the letters ofFlannery O'Connor in Tbe Habit ofBeing has been called by critic Paul Gray, "a labor oflove and an act of model scholarship." 
Fitzgerald doesn't feel that it was necessary to let the world know that Flannery O'Connor was a gifted and loved writer. But she did want to reveal O'Connor's attitudes toward her own work and towards literature in general-at­titudes which had often been misjudged. Through the ten­der and painful letters ofFlannery O'Connor, Fitzgerald has become the medium through which O'Connor's autobiog­raphy has been written. Fitzgerald gives a minimum amount ofwell-researched commentary between letters, letting Flannery speak for herself about her life and literature. Fitzgerald comments, "There she stands, to me, a phoenix risen from her own words..." 
Flannery O'Connor lived with Fitzgerald and her family between 1949 and 1951. Fitzgerald Q~~ame her friend, and she marvelled at O'Connor's intelligence, her strong Chris­tian beliefs, and her energetic wit. 
Mary Link 

John Powers 

Workshop: March 3, 
9:30p.m. 
Reading: March 2, 
7:30p.m. 
"He was not a popular child. One Halloween, some kids tied him to a tree. His family went looking for him two years later. Five years later, they untied him." This unpopular child, no stranger to a Catholic environment, might feel at home at Notre Dame. 
Born in Chicago in 194 5, John Powers went to Catholic elementary and high schools. Perhaps not content with twelve years ofparochial schooling he attended Loyola Uni· versity, graduating with a B.S. degree. He then received an 
M.S. and Ph.D. from Northwestern University. Best known as a writer, Powers also teaches all levels ofstudents in Chicago. He \\'rote a weekly column for the Chicago Daily News, and has contrib•tted articles and short stories to many magazines. 
Aself-described "product of sixteen years of Catholic education," Powers draws on his life for his novels: The Last Catholic in America, 1972;Do Black Patent LetherSboes Really Reflect Up?, 1975; and The Unoriginal Sinner and the Ice Cream God, 1977. The first two are "fictionalized memoirs" recalling his elementary and high school days. 
Pat Gallagher 
Edward Dorn 

Workshop: March 4, 
1:00 p.m. 
Reading: March 3, 7:30p.m. 
Edward Dorn, the poet, short-story writer, novelist and critic, was born in 1929 in Villa Grove, Ill. He attended Black Mountain College and lived for some time in the northwest ofthe United States, notably in Pocatello, Idaho. Much of Dorn's work concentrates on the distinct culture ofthe American Northwest-the frontier, the American Indian and the geography ofthe area Dorn uses this framework as a passage way to his philosophy, his theories and his wonder­fully broad humor. 
In the introduction to his Collected Poems ( 1974), Dorn says that, "From near the beginning I have known my work to be theoretical in nature and poetic by virtue of its in­herent tone." So Darn has used his direct, yet lyrical words to portray his feelings about the universe. The most widely­appraised example ofthis is Dorn's four-part epic poem, 
Gunslinger. It is a long, ambitious poem and Marjorie Perloff called it "one ofthe masterpieces ofcontempory poetry...a truly, original cowboy and Indian saga, rendered in the most ingenious mixture ofscientific jargon." Gunslinger shows a fascination for language and depth ofknowledge. 
Some of Edward Darn's best know publications include TheNewly Fallen ( 1961 ), Geography ( 1965), The North At­lantic Turbine ( 1967), and Gunslinger ( 1968 and 1969). 
Mary Link 
Robert Kelly 

Workshop: March 5, 
1:15 p.m. 
Reading: March 4, 7:30p.m. 
"My life's concern is to be instrumentality ofutterance, that is, to be the everlasting human maker -with the sense ofthe continuous song or declaration. I am ,·onsequently concerned with all forms of transmutation and the sciences tt compel them: linguistics, theology, magic, alchemy, politics, biology, cinema, painting, dance, music, medicine, archeology, geology, anthropology. There is no history." 
Born on September 25, 1935, in Brooklyn, New York, 
Robert Kelly attended City College in 1955 and Columbia 
University from 1955-58. Kelly served as a lecturer in 
English at Wagner College in New York from 1960 to 1961, 
and as assistant professor of English at Bard College from 
1961 to 1968. 
Kelly has written forty books, in which everything that he believes ought to be known about him can be found. The books he finds most relevant are The Loom ( 1975), Flesh Dream Book ( 1971 ), The Mill ofParticulars ( 1973 ),Kali Yuga ( 1970), and The Convections ( 1978), along with the essays entitledIn Time ( 1971). He ha'> edited, along with Paris Leary, a volume entitledA ControversyofPoets:AnAn­thology ofContemporary American Poetry. 
Bill Zink 
Romulus fjnney 

Workshop: March 6, 
1:00 p.m. 
Reading: March 5, 7:30p.m. 
"He ran down the road after Jesus, thinking as he ran. He rubbed his head, and scratched his head, and rubbed his head, and scratched it." 
"That is how Saint Peter got bald so young." Thus ends the prologue to Romulus Linney's latest published work]esus Tales. 
Romulus Linney was born in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, in 19 30. He grew up in Madison, Tennessee, spending his summers in North Carolina. He receiv.:d his BA from Ober­lin College in 1953, and his MFA from the Yale School of Drama in 1958. 
Linney is the author ofthree novels: Heathen Valley, Slowly, By Thy Hand Unfurled, andjesus Tales, which was recently reviewed inNewsweek.jesus Tales explores the early family life ofJesus and his relationship and adventures with Saint Peter in a light-hearted, often humorous manner which restores toJesus the "strong feelings and comic sense he must have possessed" but which has been lost over the centuries. 
Paul Tiffin 
Herbert Gold 

Workshop: March 6, 
1:00 p.m. 
Reading : March 6, 7:30p.m. 
Born in Cleveland, Ohio, Herbert Gold recehed his bac­helor's degree from Columbia Univers.ity in 1946with inten­tions of leading a philosopher's life. AfH!r compteting his master's degree at the same university •n 194M, G\Jld earned a Fulbright Scholarship at the Sorboun-: in Part'<. Upon his return in 1951, he began a teaching career at universities all over the United States. A noted noveli<tt, short ~tory writer, autobiographer, children's writer and •:Iitic, <P.,td has received a Hudson Review Fellowship m 1956, ~he Ohioan Book Award in 1957, a NationallnstiWt~ ofArtl'l .md Letters Grant in 1958, the Longview Foundation Awaro .n 1959, and a Ford Foundation Theater Fellowship in 1960. ::.#old settled. • in San Francisco at the beginning ofthe ~i:xties ~lld still lives there. 
Jru1e ~~arber 
------------------------------------------------------------------·-·---·---·­
*All toorkshops will be held in the Library Lounge, readings in the Libra~· A r~..!itt .. ium.• 
·,-.._,....,.."!"'" 
. ~.•. 

Friday, February 27, 1981 -page 7 
eatures 
All the Scores ofTime 
T
he nursing horne is a pleasant place, but sad to visit. My brother, sick as he is, never wants to talk much. AU we ever talk about is home and growing up. That's aU we have in common: a father, long dead; a mother, very old; a sister, herself sick; and a home that now belongs to ~niebody else; relatives that we never see; ancestors whose name we have read in a family Bible. 
"We are not strangers," I think; "we are brothers. Though nothing much is said, we comfort each other. Our language is very polite and considerate. Our mutual kindness is a way ofsaying how much we care for each other." 
Brothers, I think, should be so specjal to one another. \'<'ho else can understand in so close a way the intimacy ofshared beginnings?Sons, from their childhood, know what the score is: the whole special ethic ofbeing men in the family; the name-bearers, the keepers of the generative flame. Sisters may be the main strength and the special joy oftheir families; but the world, when it considers us, is apt to judge us in the same breath with our brothers. The world may not be fair; but brothers, taking their cue from the world, identify with one an­other as though one's brother were another version of oneself 
Back in the days when we were growing up, my brot­her didn't think highly of me. He considered me very spoiled as the youngest child, and he always looked for­ward to the day when I would be big enough for him to give me a licking. I didn't know how old or big I would have to get before I qualified for his chastisement. I dreaded his hurting me, though I didn't know how I could avoid it. I needn't have worried. 
It was a worry I would have been happy to keep, the way things turned out. Before I ever reached a thrashable age, my brother was badly injured in an acci­dent. His head injuries were especially serious, and scar tissue on the brain caused him an unsteadiness on his feet which has been for him a lifelong embarrassment. 
I would like to have been as good-looking as my brot­her. I would love to have had hair that was as naturally curly as his was. After his accident, there was only one thing of my brother's that I ever envied: that was his handsome, double-breasted, sixty dollar blue suit. 
All my suits cost less than thirty dollars, and they came with two pairs ofpants; none ofthem were blue or double breasted. It seemed like such an act offaith to pay twice as much and get only half the number of pants, as though you could be sure the coat and trousers would wear out at the same time. 
One day, I sneaked that enviable suit out ofmy brot· 

• • • more Literary Festival 
Anthony Hecht 

Workshop: March 7, 
11:00 a.m. 
Reading: March 7, 4:00p.m. 
Born in New York City in 1923, Pulitzer-prize win· ning poet Anthony Evan Hecht graduated from Bard College in 1944 and completed his master's degree at Columbia Universtiyin 1950. Hecht began his teaching career at Kenyon College in Ohio in 1947, and even­tually settled at the Universtiy ofRochester as theJohn 
H. Deane Professor ofPoetry and Rhetoric. 
Highly recognized, Hecht has received the Prix de Rome Fellowship in 1951, two Guggenheim fellow­ships in 1954, and 1959, the Hudson Review Fellowship in 1958, as well as many other awards, including the Miles Poetry Prize for his book ofverse, The Hard Hours. This award-winning collection ofpoems was preceded by publication ofhis books ofpoems: The Summoning ofStones ( 1954), The Seven Deadly Sins (1958), andStruwwelpeter Verse: A Poem ( 1958). 
Throughout his career, Hecht has contributed to many magazine& while his poems have been included in many anthologies. Hecht is also known as a translator and the co-editor oUiggery· Pokery:A Compendium of Double Dactyls. His latest publications include Mtl­her's room; blue and double-breasted, I wore it to school. On the way home, I fell and ripped that single pair ofpants across the knee. 

I put the suit back, determined to deny everything. I would, ifnecessary,insist that my brother had torn the pants himself while under the influence (sadly, he did drink young, causing my parents' hearts to break in an­other place.) 
The showdown came on a Sunday afternoon. All ofus were on the front porch recovering from dinner. 
My brother appeared, the pants in hand with the tragic flaw. "YOU!", he said, "you miserable, greedy, rot­ten..." He stuck with adjectives instead of moving on to nouns because he didn't want to grieve my parents with the nouns he knew. He advanced toward me. I thought: "This is it, the thrashing I've been expectingall my life." 
In self-defense, I swung at him. I hit him with my fist on the side ofhis head-that poor, wounded head with the scars inside creasing the brain. Even as I struck I was horrified by the blow. Iloved that head, always to be so fragile, in those days still so very young, and for a lifetime so very beautiful. I loved my brother, though I was afraid of him. Here I was, hitting him in a place where he was close to perishable. I should have known that after his accident, he lacked the strength to do me. harm. 
Perhaps it takes time to teach us how sweetly we have loved, and been loved by our brothers. One thinks ofThomas Merton's bittersweet remembrance ofhis brotherJean Paul, or Robert Kennedy praising his brot­herJohn at the '64 Convention in lines borrowed from Shakespeare, or Theo Van Gogh's poignant words after Vincent's suicide: "Oh! Mother, he was so my own, own brother." 
Our lives have been so very different, my brotherand mine. We have gone in opposite directions. Travelling the circumference ofthe globe, we have met again in the place ofour beginnings. No place is so private; and shared memories, some ofthem sad, is the only pas­sport. 
After forty years, when I visit my brother's sickroom, 
Iam still ashamed for having lifted my hand against him. 
lions ofStrange Shadows and The Venetian Vespers. 
In his work, Hecht does not hesitate to admit a God and a Satan often relating a powerful sense ofdeath in the traditional techniques ofhis poetry. 
Jane Barber 
Margaret Atwood 

Workshop: March 7, 
11:00 a.m. 
Reading: March 7, 7:30p.m. 
In her six volumes ofpoetry and four novels, Mar­
garet Atwood forges penetrating inroads into this "huge 
and simple" identity -the personal identity each man 
isdriven to e5tablish, and the identity mankind searches 
to introduce order into the "confusion ofexistence." 
In aNew Yo'* Times book review last February, aut· hor Marilyn French noted that Atwood's works "share a theme that is often called the search for identity but is more accurately defined in her fiction as a serch for a better way to be." Managing to express very vividly the challenge men face in being alive, Atwood confronts herself and her readers in her poems. "You refuse to own yourself, you permit others to do it for you." 
Miss Atwood was born in Ottawa in 1939 and began her literary career at age five, writing "morality plays, poems, and comic books." She graduated from the Uni­versity ofToronto in 1961 and went on to earn an M.A. from Radcliffe in 1962. 
Her frrst collection ofpoems, The Circle Game, was published in Canada in 1966; she enjoyed immediate success and it was awarded the Governor General's Award. At age 27, she was the youngest poet to be awarded this honor. 
Teri Schindler 

A Scenic Soap 
T
ake a nubile young actress, some of the finest cinematography in years, and a script worthy of a victorian Dallas and you have the film Tess. 
The film is directed by Roman Polanski, that famous expatriot convicted ofheinous hijinks.with underage females. Polanski's life was tragically marred by the violent killing ofhis wife Sharon Tate over ten years ago. Tess would seem to be Polanski's per­sonal statement. It· s attitude on life is at best somber. The screenplay 

•·(penned by Polanski and two others) is adapted from Thomas Hardy's book Tess ofthe d'Urbervilles. Cast Jn the lead is Polanski's girlfriend 
oftwo Nastassia Kinski who is at least sixteen. Until now, 
Kinski's career has been limited to several foriegn . films, including one very 
skinnish Italian one. Tess is 
· her first major release in America and should start a whole wave of Kinskimania culminating with her picture appearing simul­taneously on the covers of People and Family Circle. Bye, bye, Brooke. 
Tess is a young farm girl growing up in England in the 1880s. Her terminally­intoxicated father learns he is descended from royalty. The old man sends his uni­
, mpoverished looking (they must have had nice make-up back then) daughter (Kinski) to mooch offsome rich "relatives." Unfortunatly, the "relatives" turn out to be fakes, plus Tess is molested by her pseudo-cousin. Tess takes a course ofaction repeated often during the three-hour movie: She attempts to run home. Her "cousin" Alex tries to make amends in that typical male fashion by apoligizing for molesting her and saying he'll do anything for her. 
Resuming her life as a farmgirl, she gives birth to an ill-sired son, who subsequently dies. Embarrassed in the eyes ofthe community, Tess runs away to take up life as a milkmaid. While milking heifers, she 
eyes a fellow worker who is the heart throb ofthe local girls. Named "Angel," he is a young radical with communistic leanings. Tess, whose personality consists mostly of mooning about with wide eyes, falls in love and has her first kiss with Angel beside a cow. Angel wants to mar­ry Tess, but his parents want him to marry a local church woman. His father is a minister, with much · money that allows Angel to pursue his eccentric ways. Meanwhile, back with the cows, Tess feels she cannot marry this youth because ofthe rape in her past. Worse yet, everything falls apart when Angel finds out Tess is descended from an old wealthy family. Despite his family's wealth, Angel loses faith in Tess and runs offto Brazil. 
Ifall this sounds like a soap opera, it should. For underneath the gor­geous cinematography, the beautiful sets, and breath-taking scenery, that's what it is. What sets the movie apart are the visuals. Tourism to England should climb to new highs. At first the viewer is amazed that so much land can exist unmarred by the twentieth century. But soon the setting becomes natural and you have to remind yourself that the film was just made. The period mood created goes beyond the usual bounds. Viewers are given scenes ofVictorian dairies, farms, houses, and underwear. Despite the triteness to the plot, attention is kept riveted to the screen taking in all the detail. 
Several performances stand out. Too bad Kinski's is not one ofthem. Expecting her to carry three hours offilm is too much. In addition, her laboriously-learned English country accent has a German edge to it. There's no denying her beauty, but it's just fortunate her role was so one-dimensional. The rest ofthe cast is superb. Peter Firth and Leigh Lawson excell as Tess' menfolk. Both are suitably slimy in their treat­ment ofher. The rest ofthe cast is solid. A highlight is an old maid who helps the newlyweds settle into their love nest. Tess is a movie well worth seeing. Polanski has created a visual master­piece about a girl who is shoddily treated by life and seems to derive perverse pleasure from it. Had he managedto give Tess more depth in character development. he would have had a masterpiece. As it stands, it's a wide-screen Masterpiece Theatre complete with stunning visuals. 
R
eaders who saw many movies last year are asked to send me your picks for this year's best and worst movies. Write down your pick as the year's greatest, and your choice as the year's dog along with your reasons. Those with the most interesting entries will realize the special thrill ofseeing them in print. Additionally, one entry will be chosen to recieve two free movie passes. Entries can be sent to The Observer, or dropped offat our offices on the third floor ofLaFortune in person. Deadline for submissions is Friday, March 6. 
Wnters note: Each wed's review is accompanied by a P,;t Byrnes iJit~stration that corTesponds to the fiJm 's overtiJI qt~ality. Below is a nmdown ofthe symbols and their meanings: 


To~ avoid~d A r~al snoozer As ~xciting Worth seeing, Not to~ at all costs as knitting a solid effort miss~d. a classic 
• 
• 


Friday, February 27, 1981 -page 8
Editori s 
Student government should switch to monarchy 
Michael Onufrak ,. 
., 
There has been much clamor 
Thanks to King Juan Carlos's for SBP-SB VP election reform 
close ties to other, more powerful lately. Not only because the cur­
military leaders, and the rent process is inherently adver­
monarch's dramatic television sarial (and consequently, enemies 
appeal to the Spanish populace, are made), but also because this 
the rightist coup was forestalled. year's race is the most boring in 
Now, I am not advocating that recent memory. Not even the· 
one SBP should remain in office candidacy of Molarity character­
until another overthrows him. Chuck Mason (the man I have 
But wouldn't it be exciting if Don been backing) has livened up the 
Murday were to swagger into dreary contest. 
LaFortune, pump a few shots This does not mean that people 
through the ballroom floor, and· are ignoring the race. The 
hold the Huddle staff hostage un­editorials department has been 
til he was proclaimed SBP? This flooded with many proposals 
definitely beats putting up posterswhich, if implemented, would 
in O'Shaugne"ssy and participat­definitely enliven the contest. 
ing in Observer Q and A's. 
One such proposal, submitted by Though it would ultimately con­a well-meaning news staffer, 
tradict Murday's plan to renovate 
called for potential SBP can­
the student center, it would estab­
didates to meet in front of the Ad­lish a firm power base for him. 
ministration building and engage Add to this fact that it is doubtful 
in a duel. Because the writer in 
whether current SBP Paul Riehle question was "too close" to the 
would take to the air waves to story, and because of the overtly 
muster popular opinion againstviolent nature of his proposition, I 
the coup, and a Murday-led revolt was forced to kill (no pun in­
is a viable possibility. Of course tended) his proposal. However 
there is no guarantee that another that article and recent events in 
coup would follow as soon as the the news have inspired me to 
Murday junta had installed itself conjure up some reforms of my 

in office. But that's the chance own. I think you'll agree that my 
such a political system takes. ideas would at least stir some 
The English are a people who excitement. 
rely greatly on pomp and cir­The Spanish certainly do not cumstance in their political tradi­".I L.IKcr:> IT BETTE/? IJHE'N TH€.Y W£/?E" THE 511-E.HT HAJb~11Y " have a boring or lethargic system 
tion. Their monarchy is viewed as for replacing old leaders with 
somehow standing above the new. Drawing on old precedent 
common rabble. No matter how is engaged. The girl is of impec­to American party leader Gus Given the totalitarian naturedating back to the Spanish Civil 
distasteful such an idea may seem 
cable lineage and, judging from Hall, the scions of the socialist most communist governmentsWar, some nostalgic Fascist to the average American, in trying the publicity photos released by world have congregated in the eventually assume, one would notmilitary minds marched into the times reliance on so august and the royal family, good-looking to Soviet capital to argue over think it wise to run student
Spanish capital this past week, stable an institution provides 
boot. The English were properly ideological differences, com­government along the lines of thefired some shots into the ceiling, 
comfort and promotes con­
thrilled by this event and, if I un­miserate over Poland and general­Congress system. But wise orand proclaimed Spain's fidence. That tradition took an­derstand the labyrithine system of ly shoot the breeze. The highlight not, communist governments al­
democratic infancy aborted.
' 
other step towards lasting another
\ 
royal descent and the subsequent earlier this week came when ways make their point. This is 
generation earlier this week, when 
alignment of titles, England will something ND student govern­
~­
the royal family announced that
,. 
Michael Onufrak is editorials have a king and a queen for the ment has been unable to do, and 
Charles, Prince of Wales and heir
editor ofThe Observer. first time in a while. 'But wouldn't it be beginning a tradition of NDSG 
to his mother Queen Elizabeth II, 
party congresses could solve the
t Again, I am not proposing that 
problem. Just as the communist the SBP race be determined 
big-shots air their differences and
( ( Doonesbury Garry Trudeau through royal descent. But who exciting if.iWurday were delegatespet peeves; so could could resist the prospect of Paul 
from the world of student govern­Riehle consenting to marry 
ment exchange ideas and plans in Rosemary Canino in order to round-table fashion at such a
to walk into LaFortune,
p t ropigate the SBP institution for meeting. While deciding how t.o another two semesters. Riehle, of 
spank Poland and what to do with course, would move on after his 
Afghanistan "now that we've got term expires at break, leaving pump a few shots into it," overshadow plans for more Queen Roe in his stead. She 
social space and a new o-c would subsequently be free to shuttle, it is the communist sys­name her current running-mate as 
tem, not communist issues that
the ceiling and hold the 
consort. The entire student ND student government needs. A government cabinet and party congress held every other bureaucratic sy-stem could be semester would be a good oppor­realigned along dynastic lines. tunity for SG leaders to get their
Huddle staff hostage
Canino, unfortunately, would be problems out into the open and required to divorce Riehle unify the SG voice. towards the end of her term and marry the next SBP to allow the 
until he was
line to thrive. The drawback, Either of these three proposals, 
naturally, is the specter ofdivorce if enacted, would remedy the cur­in the midst of a Catholic student rent SG dilemma, and instill some government. This has also been a proclaimed SBP?' excitement in the SG election problem for the English, and most process. While I think neither recently the royal family of Murday, nor his opponent Pat Monaco. But in the give-and-take Brezhnev reasserted the Soviet Borchers, would agree to any of world of student politics, it is these reforms, I am quite certain
right to butt into Polish affairs. much preferable to candidate that candidate Mason favors at
The following day the Polish forums and run-off elections. least the first proposal, and this is 
party leader Stanislaw Kania Elections (and for that matter why I have granted him my en­
seemed to endorse Brezhnev's divorce) are no problem for the dorsement. Mason should not be
stand, although this is open to members of the Communist party consoled by this fact since I have
debate depending on how one in­currently meeting at that group's been wrong before. But if he
terprets the current communist _ 26th Congress in Moscow. From should win I'm certain he will al­
hyperbole emanating from Mos­Soviet big-wig Leonid Brezhnev leviate the boredom.
cow.
( 
( f Editorial Board and Department Managers 
Editor-in-Chief. ..................................... Paui Mullaney Features Editor.......................................Molly Woulfe Managing Editor..........................................Mark Rust Photo Editor ........................................... .John Macor 
The Observer is an independent newspaper published by the students of t~e Editorials Editor.............................. Michael Onufrak Business Manager ..................................Greg Hedges 
University of Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. It does not ~ecessanly 
Senior Copy Editor .....................Mary Fran Callahan
r 
reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news 1s reponed Controller ....... ..............................................Jim Rudd
Executive 'Vews Editor.........................Tom}ackman as accurately and as objectively as possible. Editorials represent the opinion .of a Advertising Manager.................................. Mark Ellis
News Editor ...............................................Lynne Daleymajority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, opinions, and leuers are th_e views Advertising Sales Manager............ Michael MeSally
SMC Executtve Editor..........................Margie Brassll of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the commumty, and Circulation Manager ............... ............Beth Hackett
SMC News Editor......................................Mary Leavitt the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through lerters, is encouraged. Production Manager...........................]ohn McGrath
Sports Editor..........................................Beth Huffman 


J. J. '5 CKJITC A 64L,CH, MAN?\ 
Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
The Observer Friday, February 27, 1981 -page 9 
Outside Wednesday (Friday edition) 
Conversation with Gil-Scott-Heron 
Anthony Walton 
Gil Scott-Heron is in many Maybe the difference now ~rying t~ keep you from recogniz­White people don't like to accept sociation with black people white respects a Renaissance man. He's information from black people. 
more a noted novelist, poet, musician They don't mind watching blacks 
is that we understand it more. Jng the full potential of their own people have become 
Does that make it hurt any worse? lives. There couldn't be any more human, more humane, they have and general social critic. He has 
Black people actually amaze me serious a fight or anything more play ball or banging each other become more sensitive to the written three novels and a book of 
sometimes when they talk about serious to fight over. So when upside the head in the ring, but world. The difference between poems, recorded 13 albums and America. That's because they you're in a fight, use everything. when it comes to ideas, they are Johnny Carson and David Frost is has had several hit singles, among don't know, the black people that Vote, march, demonstrate, riot if very reluctant to accept ideas black people. They would be just them "The Bottle," Johannes­are around now, they don't know necessary, whatever, because from black people. So I don't try as square, just as stiff, just as burg," and "Angel Dust." that blacks in America were you have got to change it. You to volunteer too many. Hopefully cold-blooded as the British are, if 
He is a graduate of Lincoln slaves, literally in chains out in have got to change it because you there are some Jackson Brownes, it wasn't for their association with University and received his mas­some Graham Nashes, people of
somebody's field getting whipped got kids coming, and they got kids us. So they already owe us a ters in English from Johns Hop­like dogs if they didn't do stuff c~ming. When people allow that nature who can influence the bunch, and anytime we get ready kins. He has taught at the against their wills. So compared th1ngs to stay the same in white community as a whole into to collect, it's overdue. 
University of the District of to that, how bad are things going America, they do. And when they doing something positive. But I Columbia. Scott-Heron and his to get? They probably won't get ~orce them, or try to nudge them don't depend on that, I'm from Q: Do you foresee a lot of social group, the Midnight Band, have that bad again, God willing. But 1n a given direction, that's the the black community and that's turmoil, more riots (lnd jlareups 
appeared on Saturday Night Live the community that I'm most con­this summer?
that depends on people's hearts, best way to make things happen. and recently finished a tour with cerned about and where I direct A: Sure, but y01: might not have to
because you're always going to be You can sit around until heJI Stevie Wonder. a slave if you ain't got a mind of freezes over and white people most of my energy. White . wait until this summer. You don't During his recent visit here, I America profits by association have to wait for 1984, you can
your own. And if you look at aren't going to do nothing for you.had the privilege of talking with panic now and avoid the rush.
things and analyze them and don't They have shown what they will from black people, from their as-him at length. His thoughts on 
use your mind to deal with them, do when they get the chance. subjects ranging from America's 
you may well still be a slave. The They did it before. They had future to black literature appear 
degrees of slavery are relative. people over here in chains. 
below. 
Things have changed here. They'll do it again, if they can. People in this country are no lon­That's their space, unfortunately. 
Q: Do you think that things in ger in chains. How would I relate You have to recognize that. There general, and for black people to that in terms of how bad are dangerous people here, specifically, are the same, better, Reagan is? Well George Washing­people all over the planet are or worse in this country? ton, John Adams, Thomas Jeffer­worried about the people here. 
son, they were all presidents
A: Well, things are different, to be They're nuts. You take even a 
while black people were in
sure. Do I think that Reagan is minor psychopath who's a racist 
chains, so I'd have to think that
any worse than Truman or Nixon to beat and you give him nuclear 
things are a little bit better under
or any of them other people? Not weapons, you're in a jam. They
Reagan than they were under
really. He ain't as bad as a lot of didn't use nuclear weapons on the 
them, even though they were the
'em cause he ain't as smart. The Germans, they used them on the 
fathers and uncles of this country.
man is an actor, that's his gig. He Japanese. They're capable of the 
I think the more you know, the
does this now cause they ain't most, and the most instantaneous 
better off you are. I try to learn a
been calling him from the studio. destruction of any people on the little bit everyday.
(laughs) But basically he's an ac­planet. So if I would subscribe to 
Q: Do you advocate any kind of
tor, and I feel that what or promote any kind of social 
social movement or action? 
Americans in general have to movement, I'd say every kind. I 
A: Every kind, every kind. You
worry about in terms of him is don't believe that there's see if I'm in a fight with somebody
who's writing the script? Who's anybody in America who's don't tell me to use just my right.
directing it? Knowing that he's an immune to the fact that this 
actor you get the feeling that he's I'm gonna use my right, my left, society needs to change, white or my two ft:et, my head. l'm in a
just doing as he's told, acting like black. I'm trusting that there's fight. And that's what I tell black
he's told to act. It's always been some white people out there who people. You're in a fight, in a
hell on black people in America, it are trying to instruct the white 
still is. struggle with people who are people about the need for change. 

P.O.BoxQ 
ment. in the Notre Dame Student Body I only hope that the individual, elections when the Observer
Stop 
or individuals, who are respon­hardly acknowledges those run­sible for this realize the senseless­ning for the same offices across ness of their actions. We are the street.
duck abuse 
extremely fortunate to have so Yet, the blame cannot totally many forms of tame wildlife on be placed on the Observer. If Dear Editor, our campus. It is a shame that a Saint Mary's does not have vet had to end in peace what an­enought influence to get thorough
I'm sure that all of you have other man had begun in destruc­coverage of elections, then
seen the ducks that live in the two tion. debates between the candidates
laki:s which grace our campus. They are friendly animals Randy Fahs should be arranged so that each
who ticket would be given the chance
have little fear of human beings. to be heard.
They are so tame that they will I suspect that even if students
Faulty
come close enough to eat food out are properly informed of the dif­
of your hand. The ducks are a ferent ieas of each ticket,
simple joy and add happiness to some
election 
still would walk away from thethe lives of many of us. 
voting table without voting. NotLast Saturday, Sean Murray 
every student has 20 minutes to
process
and I, Randy Fahs, went down to wait in line so that she may mark
St. Joseph's Lake to feed bread to an "X" in a box. Instead of one
the ducks. The normally playful Dear Editor, voting area why not let each stu­
ducks would come nowhere near During my three years at Saint dent vote in her own dorm? It
us. In fact, they wouldn't even eat Mary's the role of student govern­would take more people to run the
the bread that we threw into the ment has continued to grow. As election, but at the same time it
water. They were completely Saint Mary's dedicates a library, would be allowing more students
afraid of human beings. plans a student center, and to be involved, and isn't that what
We looked for one small white prepares women for a more im­duck who we jokingly named Ir­student government is all about?
portant role in society, student ving. When we spotted him, we government will become even Student government does work
a at Saint Mary's College. It is ef­
noticed that he couldn't swim more pivotal force on campus. fective and up to date-even if
straight and that he was in a lot of These reasons should be enough its' election process is not.
pain. Someone had given him a to review the present election sys­
M.J. Murray
compound fracture of the hip. I tem and make changes where went into the frigid water to they are needed -and they are retrieve the suffering animal. definitely needed. 
English
Ed Konrady rushed us to the It seems odd that people who South Bend Animal Clinic where are runnig for Student Body we were met by Dr. Williams. We leadership positions are never 
valuable
decided that the only humane given a chance to air their ideas. thing to do would be to have the True, the platforms are posted in DearEditor, animal put to sleep. We are very the dining hall, and The Observer, When people hear that I am an grateful to Dr. Williams for giving but is that really enough? How English major, they sometimes up part of his Saturday afternoon can the Observer justify a front ask, "Do you plan to get ajob af­and for refusing any form of pay-page interview for those running ter graduation?" or "Do you 
think that being a file clerk will be a rewarding career?" 
English majors find these pejorative questions discourag­ing. They have, however, many reasons to respond confidently to such skepticism about their potential for employment. To show how uninformed and mis­taken the skeptics are, English majors needs only describe the skills and insight they can offer to employers. 
English majors train their minds as runners train their legs, by exercising them. They become attentive readers and listeners, alert to subtle distinctions. The attempt to comprehend obscure passages of Shakespeare and Mil­ton is good practice for employees who must be able to understand complicated or abstruse memorandums from their bosses. 
The study of literature and writing teaches the student to or­ganize his thoughts logically and to express them clearly. No one can advance far in business if he does not have this ability to present his ideas in an orderly and 
rational manner. An employee must make his proposals and reports intelligible not only to himself but to the person to whom they are addressed, if he wants them to receive any considera­tion. 
In these abilities to read well, to think clearly, and to commun­icate, English majors have an ex­pertise that never becomes obsolete. This expertise can be applied to any field. 
What English majors learn 'about the world through reading gives them an informed 
perspective from which to view each new event. Literature en­courages readers to think deeply about a variety of topics because it engages the reader both emo­tionally and intellectually. 
English majors are valuable employees. Their abilities to write well and think clearly, and to read attentively and under­stand new ideas make them an as­set to any company, no matter what changes may occur in a field. 
Donna Teevan 

_Ihe-~==~~========~~===-~=~================= 


Friday, February 27, 1981 -page 10 
Catnpus Molarity Michael Molinelli 
FRIDAY, FEB. 27 
•3:30 p.m. -colloquium, "is 
there  one  true  morality?" gil­ 
bert  harmon,  princeton  u..  
mem.  library lounge. sponsor:  

philosophy dept. 
•s:
1 5 p.m. -mass and supper, bulla shed. 

•7,9, 
11 p.m. film, "caddyshack" carrot hall smc., sponsor: sapb. 

•7,9,11 
p.m. film, "brubaker" engr. aud., sponsor: student union, S1. 

•8 
p.m. -variety show, st. mary's college sophomore parents weekend, angela ath­letic facility. 

•a 
p.m.-nd/smc theatre, "the country wife," o'laughlin aud. 

•s 
p.m. -seni tor arts festival choral concert, annenberg 

auditorium, the snite museum ofart. 

•9-10:30 
p.m. -performance, holthouse, at the nazz. 

•11 
p.m. performance, forecast, at the nazz. 


SATURDAY, FEB. 28 
•9 
a.m. · noon -discus­sion/speakers, "blast-off: enter­ing the world of work" carroll hall smc, sponsor: counseling 

•6:30 
p.m. -chinese associa­tion film, "the private detective," mem.library aud. 

•7 
p.m. -concert, james tatum trio plus unique jazz artists from detroit, sponsor: black cultural arts festival, washing­ton hall, no admission charge. 

•7,9,
11 p.m. film, "caddyshack" carroll hall smc. 


and career development.  
•1 :30  p.m.  - basketball,  nd ·  
men vs dayton, ace.  
• 4  p.m.  basketball,  nd  
women vs illinois, ace.  

17,9:15,11:30 p.m. film, "brubaker" engr. aud. 
•7:30 
p.m. -hockey, nd vs wisconsin, ace. 

•8 
p.m.-nd/smc theatre, "the country wife," o'laughlin aud. 

•9 
p.m. performance, waiting for now (jazz from keenan review), at the nazz. 

•9-11 
p.m. -amnesty interna­tional reception for military, education and cultural comm, bulla shed. 


SUNDAY, MARCH 1 
•1 
p.m. bengal bouts, opening rounds, ace. 

•2 
p.m. -admission degree, k of c hall, all catholic men, 18 years or older are eligible for membership. dues must accom· pany your application (jacket and tie requested). 

•7:30 
p.m. sophomore literary festival, seamus heaney, irish-born poet, readings and discussion, mem. library aud. 

•8:15 
p.m. -cancellation, please note that all perfor­mances of "noye's ftudde" scheduled at sacred heart church have been cancelled. 

•8:30 
p.m. meeting, philosophy meet your major, room 331 o'shag. 



r f-\'OW DO YOU VIEW

BA.51CAL.LY A 
'PoWERLE'~ Pc01710N 10 MAKE. THE. ~TZJT)ENT~ n:E'L. .A(~ /F THEY H-4VE" A VOICE ~UII..E' "Tf+E A'DHIN I~.lttT ION i]U6i 



ACROSS 36 Practice 1 Abrasive boxing 
6 Ark units 37 Fit out 10 "All for action 
That-" 39 -majesty 14 TheSouth 40 So long 15 Vagrant 41 Smooth· 16 Helm spoken 
position 42 Niche 17 Choristers object 18 Baneful 43 Agenda 20 Malde-entry 21 Bay off 44 AL player 
Jamaica 45 Battery 23 Attention­unit getter 46 Varnish 24 Like summer Ingredient 
tea 48 Precedent· 26 Bloke setters 28 Rising: var. 50 Torpor 32 Bus' last 52 Broadway 
stop great 
The Daily Crossword 
Yesterday's Puzzle Solved: 


2127/81
©1981 by Chicago Tribune-N.Y. News Synd. Inc. All Rights Reserved 
r--------------.. are listed below). The results must be 
turned into the lnterhall Office (6100) before noon on the following Tuesday. (Deadline for this week only will be Thursday). Failure to report the results of these matches will mean disqualification of both participants. All participants must have completed the proper inter­hall insurance forms. After the first 
lESll~~***~~~*** 
Observer 
round. a participant who has not met the insurance requirement will be dropped from competition.
Classifieds 
MIXED DOUBLES 
RACQUETBALL MEN'S DOUBLES 
Phillips (1752), Hovig (1747) vs. O'Brien, O'Brien (232·2835) Aigali (1654), Power (6718) vs. Pfau (1424), Pierce (1424) Hatfield (1212), Butler (1210) vs. Pirienda (8718), Shank (8717) 
The Mixed and Open Racquetball Tournaments for Spring 1981 will be single elimination. Each match consists of three games (best of three series). the pairings for these tournaments will ap­pear each Thursday in The Observer It is the responsibility of the participants to contact his or her opponents and set upa match in each round (phone numbers 
Rosenberg  (277-6735),  Rosenfield  
(287-2577)  vs.  Suplick  (8052),  White  
(3234)  

Harliss, O'Brien (232-2835) vs. Owens, Myslnwiec (8768) Lally(8048), Miller(3173)vs. Lara(234­3394), Clitheroe (234-3394) Knue (6179), Reagan (8375) vs. Smith, Muoio (8882) Brown (3264), Des Loge (7905) vs. Muller (7915), De Angelus (8427) Hanam (3749), Johnston (8637) vs. Leitzinger (7674), Young (234·3301) Drancik (2909), Meakin (1161) vs. Har­son (7915), Mulligan (8695) Maskop (8143), Zanheim (3117) vs. Granthan (8134,) Pineda (8718) Phillips (1752), Bowland (233-2641) vs. Butchko (1323), Stolzwk (8891) 
The following teams received a bye in • the first round: Stiles. Priasko Hirsch, Tillotson Stefanik, Harnell Runger, Schmid Roher, Gleason Devonch, Power Ahern, Fullmer Beaujean, Pacek Bialek, Butler Sorapure, Daly Cerrenak, Pierce Hereford. Bell Welsh, Welsh Margaret, Kahali Staab, Schmitz Minondo, Minondo Weder, Jenson Gorski, Shunk Senica. Canonico Gallagher, Burton Trucela, Wolfe Larkner, Powers 
OPEN RACQUETAALL TOURNAMENT 
Labinger (6216) vs. Reagan (8375) O'Neill (1791) vs. Valenzuella (1 770) Burke(1423)vs.Stokes(233-3777) Rademaker (3575) vs. Phillips (1752) Gravelle (8469) vs. Gleason (6664) Foley (232-0874) vs. Bell (1574) Outlow (9531) vs. Schmitz (1670) Klug (7935) vs. Tallarida (1434) Wischerath (8928) vs: Cordon (1247) Butler (1210) vs. Shank (8718) Goode (8317) vs. Kirn (3479) Pacek (277-0485} vs. Hanigan (7721) Pizzato 93271) vs. Dresser (7864) Murio (4352) vs. O'Toole (4678) 
Meakin (1161) vs. Schaeffer (232­1687) Brady (3549) vs. O'Malley (4512) Hovig (1747) vs. Grothaus (1152) Bates (4512) vs. Guilfoyle (3513) W1cke (1685) vs. Jamonville (277-0625) Pierce (1424} vs. Cammarano (8917) 
53 Lawyer's charge 56 Reveals 59 Boxscore 
entry 
62 Persistent preoccupa· tion 
64 Was skit· tish 66 City on 
the Tiber 67 Just so 68 Clean off 69 Hemline 
length 10 Ms Baxter 71 Makes an 
impression 
DOWN 1 Cheese choice 
2 Marathon unit 3 Disen· 
tangles 4 "-Rita" 5 Sycophants 6 Spare 1 Uncoopera­
tiveword 8 Aims 9 Moaning 
sound 10-alai 11 Out of 
plumb 12 Hera's husband 
13 Enthusiasm 
19 "The -Not Taken" 
22 Most singular 
25 Of por· celaln 
27 Louisiana's bird 
28 Moving 
29 Torrent 
30 Horseman· ship 31 Renoir's cloud 
33 Unimagina­tive 
34 "-Mio" 
35 Has effect 
38 With arch· ness 47 Cribbage terms 49 Cantanker· ous 51 Hostess Perle 
53 Branch off 
54 Dusky 
55 Salinger girl 57 Certain horse 58 Pot incre­ment 
60 A-one 
61 March date 
63 Shoe width 
65 Realm letters 
Muoio (8882) vs. Snyder (3678) Brown (3624) vs. Arvin (232-6859)  ) i  
Stolwyk (8891) vs. Wolfe (3830)  
Croke (234-2880) vs. Mulligan (3339)  
Rigali (1654) vs. Dwyer (232-Q874)  
Kaputt (8728) vs. Simpson (3340)  
Beutter (1802) vs. Browne (1760)  
Foley (232-0874) vs. Minondo (6741)  
Khakbaz (8350) vs. Ingram (1500)  
Sharkey(1818)vs.Packe(8585)  
Stanley (1866) vs. Norn's (8720)  
Corte (8719) vs. Miller (3173)  
O'Brien (232-2835) vs. Caterine (1584)  
Gorski (1327) vs. Clitheroe (234-3394)  
Dayne (6709) vs. Kempf (8595)  
Badwin (232-0874) vs. Pineda (8718)  
Lake (289-8163) vs. Dages (8251)  
Fullmer (31 04) vs. Childess (1588)  
McKenna (1700) vs. Wagnes (277­ 
7351)  
O'Brien (1215) vs. Desanlniers (1655)  
Poorman (7662) vs. Schafer  
(232-1687)  
Purk (1030) vs. McGowan (1636)  
Ruddick (8651) vs. Williams (1154)  
Kelly (1436) vs. Tsuchyenia (1801)  
Dandurand ( 1 816} vs. lglar (233-7525)  
The following have byes in the first  
round:  
Hat fie t ld  
Freedman  
Lake  

' 
The Observer Friday, February 27, 1981 -page 11 

Meet Coach ~~Digger" Phelps, 
who will autograph his new book, 
Digger PhelP-s oo.d ~Qtre Dame Basketball 

Here at last is an honest look at what goes on behind the bright­if not glaring -lights of televised college basketball, provided by one of the most successful, biggest names in the game -Notre Dame's flamboyant, winning, unconventional Richard "Digger" Phelps. 
This book offers a revealing insider's glimpse into this fast-paced, high-tension, high-stakes game of college basketball. 
He tells of what it is really like to take raw tal'-)nt and blend it into a winning team effort-<JII while maintaining the grueling schedule of games, recruiting trips, and speaking engagements. Plus much, much, more... 
IT'S A BOOK YOU DON'T WANT TO MISS! ! ! 
., 

The Observer Friday, February 27, 1981 -page 12 
) 

McAuliffe excels in role oftrack captain
{. 
J 

ENFY 
WHnesctar I Sundar 
Nita 

l 
l 
J 
j 
) 
i 
Spring Break-Florida 1981 
You studied hard all fall and winter. Now it's time to relax...it's Miller Time. 
Have the Miller Time of your life in Florida this 1,_ . r spring. Play our games, listen to our concerts, win our prizes, and enjoy the great taste of Miller 
) 
-~·If
High Life beer. 
. ~: 
Look for Miller High Life activities in Florida's fun 
spots this spring-at hotel poolsides, in bars, on the 
beachfront and in the Expn America exhitJit hall in 
Daytona Beach and Fort Lauderdale. 
C> Copyright 1981. Miller Brewing Co.. Milwaukee. Wisconsin 
ALL YOU CAN EAT SPECIALS, 
By LOUIE SOMOGYI 4(30 P.M. T010:00 P".M~ 
Sports Writer 
SPKftTTI 
The term "captain" or "co­
InclUdes Special Italian saJce, 
captain" in sports is often mistaken 
dinner salad. French bread &butter •2. 75 
to be synonymous with stardom. 
It's co-captain Woolridge hitting the "Hail Mary" shot, co-captain 
QI)(J\EN 
Our own criSp fried dllcken, 
Crable tossing around running backs
choice of potatoes, roll.& butter •3.75 
r•sarar 
Home batt« dipped ocean perch, • French fries. slaw. roll &butter · . 
52820 U.S. 31 NO., Sot.~th Bend 209 E. Ireland, South Bend 921 W. McKinley, Mishawaka 
like rag dolls, or it's track co-captain Chuck Aragon making news with his efforts of becoming the first Notre Dame trackster to run a sub-four
3• 25 
•..; 
minute mile. 
And then there is the other cap­tain of track team, senior Brian McAuliffe -non-starter for the fourth straight year. 
"A captain doesn't have to be a su­perstar," points out track mentorJoe Piane, "The superstar gets his MVP award at the end of the year, but the position of captain is a year round reward. The great leadership that Brian gives, the respect from his peers that he gets, and the hard working dedication he puts into practice everyday is what has made him into a captain and leader for us." 
Leadership is a role that McAuliffe proudly relishes even though a non­starter may be at times looked down at -especially since he also stands only at 5-4, 143 pounds. In practices and meets though he rises above the crowds. 
"My role is to keep peace on the 
team," explains the friendly senior, 
"I'm the mediator between the 
coach and guys and I try to keep 
both ofthem happy." 
But his role goes much beyond 
mediation. There is a role that he 
won't make headlines for, but one 
that has earned him the tremendous 
amount of respect from his coaches 
and teammates. 
"Having been a second man 
throughout my career, I know the 
value of being encouraged," says 
McAllaugh, "It's something that 
everyone needs and I try to help out 
in any which way I can to provide 
motivation for someone." 
A briefexample ofthe value ofen­
couragement was shown in a recent 
meet when the strong Notre Dame 
relay team was beginning to lag. 
"Pat Sullivan and I were on the 
sidelines and we were screaming (in 
a friendly tone) 'Come on ! Move it! 
Move it!' and eventually they went 
on to win. Afterwards they came 
over to us and said 'Hey, thanks, that 
really helped.' 
"That felt good for all of us. Buts 
thats the part of friendship that we 
all share on the team. They care 
about me, I care about them. I like 
being a part of all my buddies and 
their events not just my own." 
He's not the rah-rah that goes 
schizoid watching, but as Piane says, 
"he's always there to pat you on the 
back when you do well-and there to 
pat you on the back when you don't 
do so well." 
"I'm very proud of being chosen 
captain," says the bearded govern­
ment major, "I know that I'm not a 
superstar but it's still something I 
take pride in and try to do the best 
•for the team through it. I also feel better that it was the guys that selected me and not coach because that could show favortism and create tension among us." 
Perhaps what earns McAuliffe 
the respect he so largely receives is 
the continuous dedication he puts in 
practices through his hard work ­
despite his knowing that he won't be 
the first man in meets. Throughout 
his career the Syracuse, N. Y., native 
has taken up the motto oftrying har­
der and harder to the degree where 
he can put Avis to shame. 
"Don't be mistaken," emphasize~· 
Piane, "Brian is a fine athlete. If he 
could just grow six inches thert.: 
would be no doubt in my mind that 
he could qualify for the NCAA's with 
a jump of over 50 feet." (Currently 
he's preparing to break 4 7 feet). 
The height bugaboo though is 
what may have led to McAllaugh's 
career of being a trackster. 
"Back from where I come, when 
others were playing basketball on 
the playgrounds, I was the midget 
that would monkey around on the 
track field," says McAuliffe.. 
It has been, though, because ofhis height that persistance has made him into a better athlete. Despite a fine high school career in which he helped lead Christian Brothers Academy of New York to its 15th straight unbeaten record by becom­ing the sectional indoor and outdoor champion, skepticism greeted him at Notre Dame. 
"My freshman year was kind of interesting. I could see that coach wa..o; kind of hesitant in using me as a triple jumper because ofmy size hut that turned out to be a great motiva­tion to try harder for my future years. I pride myself on facing com­petition and then always giving my best effort in winning against it," says the future lawyer to be. 
"Sometimes it was frustrating," he admits, "I'd set a goal on how far I would want to jump to beat my op­ponent. I'd finally make the jump and look over at him with a grin and say 'Top that' and the guy would just hlow me away, but I've always 
See CAPTAIN, page 14 

( 


The Observer Friday, February 27, 1981 -page 13 
Looking for revenge 
Tennis team prepares for 'Weekend tourney 
By MICHAEL ORTMAN 
Sports Writer 
COLUMBUS, Ohio This weekend promises to be the most competitive and emotion-packed of the season as the Notre Dame tennis team faces a trio of opponents here that the Irish badly want to beat for three different reasons. 
The Ohio State Quadrangular will feature the host Buckeyes, the Irish, nationally-ranked South Carolina and Mid-American power Miami (Ohio). Competition is scheduled to begin this afternoon and continue through tomorrow. 
Ohio State is the team that shot down a high-flying Irish team late last spring. and dealt Notre Dame one ofthree losses the team suffered en route to a 20-3 record. The S-4 Buckeye win came after the Irish had won four of the six singles matches. The rains came and the teams· were forced indoors where visiting Ohio State proceeded to sweep the doubles competition. 
"That kind ofa loss sticks with you a long time," says senior captain Herb Hopwood. "We were so close to winning it too. We were withing two points of winning in one of the doubles matches and kt it slip away. We want revenge." 
The Buckeyes are led by All­American Ernie Fernandez, a junior star from Santurce, Puerto Rico. Fer­nandez shocked the college tennis world last spring when he reached the semifinals of the NCAA singles championships, only to lose to Stan­ford's Peter Rennert. He then toured the country on the pro circuit as a member ofthe United State Jr. Davis Cup Team. The 1979 Big Ten singles champ lost to Michigan's Matt Hor­wich last week in the semis of the Big Ten indoor championships. A year ago Fernandez beat Notre Dame's Mark McMahon in straight sets, 6-2, 6-4. 
"I think things will be a little dif­ferent this year," says McMahon. "I learned a lot last year, losing to him outside. He's a great player ­there's no question about it. Playing indoors this time will help a little, 
but if I'm going to win, I'm going to have to hit my ground strokes better than I did last time." 
Miami is a team the Irish have not faced in some time in a dual match, but the teams are quite familiar with 
/ each other. The Redskins have taken part in the Notre Dame Fall Invita­tional several times winning it three times since 1977. The Irish snapped Miami's string of titles last fall, beating Miami "indirectly" as Fallon called it. "Indiana beat Miami in the semifinals," Fallon recalls, "and we beat Indiana in the championship." This season, the Redskins are 2-1 and finished second in the Colonel Classic at Eastern Kentucky behind first place Kentucky. Miami took the number one and number two doubles titks in that event. South Carolina should prove to be the most difficult opponent of the two-day affair. The Gamecocks were ranked 16th in the nation in a pre­season listing by College andjunior Tennis. USC's roster looks more like the roll call for the United Nations 
with the likes of Ulf Pettersson effort from everyone," says Fallon, "a (Malme, Sweden) at number one great team effort. I think all of the singles and Zoran Perkovich (Tuzla, guys on the team know we're going Yugoslavia) at number two. to have to play much better than we Pettersson missed most of last did last weekend at Marquette. And 
season with an injury but is back in they know they're capable ofit." top form as he has helped the A pair of 9·0 whitewashings of Gamecocks to a 3-0 start. Perkovich Marquette and Wisconsin-Oshkosh played on Yugoslavia's Davis ' Cup this past weekend served as a tune­team and was once ranked third in up for this weekend's battles. That that country in men's single. Chuck stands in stark contrast to the ways Hodgin the team's third singles man Fallon has chosen to start recent 
and 1980 MVP, was once rated 17th seasons. In 1979, the Irish opened at among junior players in the United Ohio State, losing 8-1, and last States. spring, Fallon took his team to Ann 
•
"For this to be a successful trip, Arbor where it suffered a 9·0 drub­w~'re going to need a tremendous bing at the hands ofthe Wolverines. 

-------. ·--­
~ 
K
' 
/
)' 
) 
1 
t, 
)' ) ) ) 
J 
/
'< 
;· 
) 
~. 
I' 
1 
J 
l i 
) 
J 
-
The Observer 


COUI?ON COUPON 
* 
BUY ORE BIG MAC® sandwich, get another one wi·th this coupon! 
Offer good only at McDonald's ® 1519 R. Ironwood Dr. South Bend, In. 
offer expires March 31, 1981 
Nobody can do it like McDonald's can "TM 
Limit 1 coupon per customer per visit Cash redemption value 1120 of a cent. 
J 
Friday, February 27, 1981 -page 14 
Face NCAA champs 
Fencers invade Wayne State 
ByJIMLEOUS 
Sports Writer 
This weekend, the Notre Dame fencing team will face. the NCAA Champion Wayne State team in per­haps thctir most difficult meet ofthe season. The meet, to be held at Il­linois, will also feature Northwes­tern, Wisconsin, and Illinois. Fencing Coach Mike DeCicco described this weekend saying, "I think this meet will determine the character ofthis team. I think we can beat Wayne State; I only hope my people haven't psyched themselves 
out." He continued, "This meet will 
go to the team that's most prepared 
physically." 
continuedfrom page 16 
sidelined for the third week in a row with strained knee ligaments. Soph­omore Bob McNamara will be in the nets each night. 
For the Badgers, Scott Lecy tops the scoring list with 21 goals and 4 3 assists and is followed by Ron Vin­cent with 20-41-61. Wisconsin also boasts three other players with more than 20 goals -John Newber­ry with 27, PeteJohnson with 26 and 
When asked about the other teams DeCicco comented, "In years past, the Midwest championship was always between Notre Dame and Wayne State, this year there is so much more competition. Ohio State, Illinois, Cleveland State, and Wis­consin all have very good squads. We're fencing two ofthem this week besi~es Wayne State. This will be a very difficult week for this squad." 
The Irish Lady fencers, along with the St. Mary's team, will fence the Wayne State, Northwestern, and Wisonsin women's teams over the weekend as well. The Wayne State women are also very tough. 
The Irish fencers extended this year's winning streak to 16 as they 
Ed Lcbler with 21. 
In goal, Marc Behrend came out of the shadows two months ago and has been hot. He brings a 7-3-0 record and a 3. 19 goals against average into the series. Terry Kleisinger ( 10-4-0, 3.53) also could see action in the nets. 
The Badgers will be keeping a watchful eye on this week's Minnesota-Denver series in Denver. The Gophers are guaranteed at least 

SURDAY MASSES A! SAOBED HIAJl! 
campus
miniStry 
5:15 pm Saturday Bev. Robert Griffin, c.s.c. 
9:00 am Sunday Bev. John Van Wolvlear, C.S.C. 
10:30 am Sunday Bev. John Beedy, C.S.C. 
12:15 pm Sunday Bev. Austin Fleming 
7:15 pm Vespers Bev. John Reedy, C.S.C. 

PINOCCHIO'S PIZZA PARLOR 
live bandr------~ saturday 9-12 
$1.50 COVER CHARGE 
~---~--------------------, 
I $.50 OFF SMALL PIZZA I 
~---------------------~ 
: $.75 OFF MEDIUM PIZZA I 
~---------------------~ 
I $1.00 OFF LARGE PIZZA 1 
1----------------------~ 
emmons 
expires feb. 28 

defeated Michigan State 23-4 and edged Ohio State 14-13 last weekend. Coach DeCicco described the Ohio State epee team as "very, very tough." The Notre Dame women clipped Michigan State 5-4 and St. Mary's defeated MSU 6-3. 
In addition, Irish fencer Marc dejung placed second in both the foil and the epee in the United States Junior Championships held in Cleveland. Dejung will represent the United States in the World Championships to be held in Bern, Switzerland later this year. 
The results of this week's com­petition could very well determine the 1981 NCAA Fencing Champion. 
.leers 
a share offirst place, but two wins by Denver and two here by Wisconsin would create a three-way tie for first. 
Besides all that is at stake in the series, the army of Badger fans should make it an exciting weekend. The beer-drinking folks from Mad­City (Madison) probably qualify as the world's leaders in road trips and they will be out in full force this week with first place still a pos­siblity.· They alone are worth the price ofadmission. 
.Captain 
continuedfrom page 12 
believed the most you can ever do is give it your best shot always and see what happens from there. And who knows, maybe some day this year I could become the number-one triple jumper for our squad. 
"It's been a career of continual steps, but I've never been bitter for coming to Notre Dame. It's just has been a case ofsomebody just always being a little better than me. I had and outstanding triple-jumper in front of me my first three years here and this year (Pat) Jorgenson has come in as a freshman and has just been doing an outstanding job. He's such a natural athlete. 
"I'm not corny but I know that rm 
going to keep on trying harder," says 
McAulifft> . "It's a matter of pride in· 
not giving up. If someone else is 
doing better though, I don't want to 
take anything away from the perfor­
mance of that someone because of 
an ego problem that I may have. _ 
"Brian's a very likable guy," says 
Piane with sincerity. 
And truly a great example of a 
team captain. 



G 
Friday,February27, 1981-page 15 
All classofoeo ads must be receoveo by 4 45 p.m.. two days proor to the 
•ssue on whoch thP. art os run. The Observer offoce Will accept class1foeds Moncfay lhrough Frocfay. 10.00 am to 5·00 p m All classofoeds must be
Classifieds 
IJH..Pdld P.l!her en person or through the mail. 

····························-······················· 
Need nde to Chicago Saturday morn­
Cyprus, mg. Call John Higgins at 8553 or 1715. Steve Hilbert--We thmk your kisses are Tncia, alias .. Social Butterfly." 
I don't have to go to Chicago this
hello to all the C MONSTERS Here's your chance to improve your
NOTICES 
the sweetest this side of crystal I W'nen 
LOVE ME G.E. Who are the stars for now? weekend. I love you. 
I ~~ed ~ rid~ t~ D~n~~r ~t B~~~k: c~ii is the second course? 
love, two of your most fully alive CapriJohn at 1177 
PROFESSIONAL TYPING. Term TOM ENGLERT, TOM ENGLERT: TOM friends 
.. ...................... GREGG, 
Bro,ENGLERT, THREE CHEERS FOR THE papers, theses. etc. Tape transcription. 
Need a r1de to Florida. Will share the Good luck in the Bengals. You better What's wrong w1th · playmg theLast year's same low prices. All work UMOC, UMOC. UMOC. LOVE you know MADELINE I'LL BE BACK ON SATUR­
usual. Call Bob 1049 win! BUT--I'II love you no matter what' field?" (You used to)guaranteed. aardvark automatic solu­who. We love you tom. DAY READY TO PARTY. TOO BAD 
.................................. . Kid 
Manizer Need r~de to Washington, DC area-­
tions. 289-6753. .......................... WE COULDN'T PARTY ON 
TOMMY WILLY. Q~y j~ ·s·~··;~· j~~~-·w,· THURSDAY-BUT PHYSICS WASCan leave Wednesday afternoon. Will Dan (the mellow fellow) Happy 19th Man1zer.
DON T WALK ALONEi!! chao! MUCH MORE IMPORTANT WHAT A
share driving, etc Call TJ, 3207. birthday little brother I also went for the home run. ·How
GET AN ESCORT!!! RUSH"!
Love. Nancy 
·········· do you expect to defense that,
Student Escort Service-On-Call Sun to The world of hghl. she's gonna open LOVE STEVIE 
Aide needed to si: Louis.. for -S~~~~g P.S. Better late than never · shortstop" or catcher?"
Thurs 7 to M1dn1ght. Call 6283 (OBUD) our eyes up P.S. DID YOU CATCH THAT ONE TIM?
bfeak. Call Kevin, 1800. BroAt the NO L1brary 10 to 11 :45 pm. All 
Remember all you FLAP JAWS
student Volunteers. Eliza. Do the D1tty Dog. do the Un­SUSIE.
Riders need~d fr~~ a·~~i~~ i~·No ~~ FANATICS, we're gelling geared up for . Tolley,
USE IT!!!!!! employment, do the Friend Ship, do it HAPPY 20TH BIRTHDAY TO ONE OF
Mar. 21. Call Kevin, 1800. PHILADELPHIA and the PHINAL Calilorma ·s beaches are warm and
DON T BE AFAID TO CALL! now! Dmner? THE GREATEST PEOPLE ON CAMPUS
PHOUR!! Grab your cast ~ron stomachs sunny-go pound some sand!
Mr. Stone FROM THE OTHER TWO. WE LOVECOMPUTER EXPERTS: .. WANT TO and meet me at SMOKEY .tOES on KwiCkiUSED & OUT-OF-PRINT BOOKS YOU LOTS!
EARN EXTRA MONEY? I NEED A Broad Street. See you there. P S. ABUSE! 
bought, sold, searched. ERASMUS E~perience NOW! MARK AND LAURIE 
TUTOR IN PLI. CALL 2126 AND LEAVE 
BOOKS. Tues-Sunday, 12-6. 1027 E. P.S. we were going to go to the mall to
A MESSAGE OR CALL AFTER 11 PM. Paulie. Ors. Beth. Ort1. B1ll. V1ck1. Mike. DeMar (note the cap1tal M). 
Wayne (One block south of Eddy­Bill Gergen buy your present. but we were afraid 
Skip, Richie, Jim, Sk1p 0 . BABY WE You'reall that 1 could ever wosh" for
Jefferson intersection) Tim Keyes something bogus would happen like
Need ride to .Dall~~ i~~ b·;~~k C~jj J~h~ 
WERE BORN TO WIN !! (beSides 1ce cream and Twmkies!)
Steve Ledoux we'd miss the last bus. and be stuck m a 
Higgins at 8553 or 1715 and leave a P.S. -IHEAR DIGGERS BUYING!!! Thank you for caring!
MORRISSEY LOAN FUND Scott O'Grady phone booth downtown. 
message.
Emergency loans tor NO students. $20-Paul Partridge 
RYAN VER BERKMOES FOR UMOC
$200. One percent interest. Due in one Kurt Pfotenhauer Saga M1ke, Mrs. Gumby, 
N~~d~d·· Rid~.i~.H~~~t~~· i~r.sp~i~g THERE CAN BE NO DOUBT!!!!!!!! HE IS
month Open 1t:30-t2:30. M-F. Base­Happy 22nd birthday! w111 you st1ll Sorry about Wednesday illte. Puglia
break. Smce i received no response to THE MOST OBVIOUS CHOICE. OF
ment of LaFortne. Final day fo sen1ors Wa1t1ng tor NOW" talk to th1s little girl?" if so.. I'll give & I meant no harm. Hope you have a 
my last plea, I will now share the COURSE !!!!!!
to apply is Friday. March t3. TheNAZZ you a lesson on living! nice weekend ·.tt home. 
unusual" Call Kathy, (41) 4291 
Saturday. February 28 love, Bridget Mr. Gum by cRvsT:Ai:..Roc;(s.~l·f:·~l·w~ilys.th·i~ 10:00 COSSSTANCE. 0: HOW MANY CARS P S Don't let Berg1e eat all the food. CAN ONE FAMILY• -.:RASH IN ONE
Saturday. Feb. 28. Come and get rowdy NEED. RIDE ro.f:L.O'RiDA . p;~;~~~·b·~ Be There Dear Dreamy Scottie. Save some lor Puglia.WEEK ONLY ONLY THE BLOND FROM
w1th gcod-time Rock'n Roll by CRYS­Ft. Lauderdale area, for 4 girls, Will Aloha! Good Luck with Bengals! Knock ·em 
PHILL Y KNOWS LOVE MS. AUBURN
TAL. share usual. We wouldn't mind split­dead! Ha11 to all gomg south for break: 
IE ... MO
tmg mto 2 and 2 So call if you have Something new, sonething different, Love Your Favorite Lew1s Ladies Southern gentleman needs ride to At· Need ride to Detroit-Southfield room for two or four. Ask for LESLIE or Notre Dame·s own COFFEEHOUSE lanta. One wav. Will provide hospitality.
GOOD LUCK CAROL AND BETH &
weekend of March 6. Call Dick t484. MAUREEN 7936. opening March 6 in LaFortune Bal­Dear Stubble mouth Call soon. Tum. 1588
THANKS FOR ALL YOUR WORK. WE 
. . . . .. . lroom Happy Birthday! 
LOVE YOU!!! 
From your room1es, Garfield the Cat for SBP!
THERE ARE ONLY 5 SEATS LEFT ON 
I I 
JAZZ, BLUES and FOLK coming Juan1ta and Bambina
THE NEW JERSEY CLUB BUS FOR 
FOR SALE 
HEY BILLY C.,
SPRING BREAK. CALL CHRIS AT 4479 soon .... LaFortune COFFEEHOUSE p.s. Too bad the room is ]armless" Happy B-day Ned Lamey
WERE YOU BORN BLONDE? ONLY 
OR KEVIN 7687 BETWEEN 6-10 PM '-·-----------...J. while we· re away this weekend! The girls of P-West 
······· 
YOUR HAIRDRESSER KNOWS FOR
FOR MORE INFO!!! Bring a fnend, eve~ a 0·~1~!!! rir~d -~j ............................... For Sale: STANLEY KAPLAN MEDCAT Attention All NO-SMC sen1ors 
SURE.
'...... ...... ........ ........... . the Bars??? Notre Dame Coffeehouse Attention: Going eastbound over
THE EIGHT 
Irish Flyers Flying Club a~~~~·iing n~·:;_ Manuals $50. Call Bnan 1847 NEXT WEEKEND March break? I need a nde to Connec­We all have an obligation to. 
members. Student pilots welcome. Call ................................ ticut. Please call Mary beth 41-5485 1) Elect Rodney Dangerfield Sen1or 
Ext. 4234 8AM-5PM. MUST SELL Fishing-Ski Boat 16 It Tri­PROFESSIONAL ENTERTAINMENT ......................... Class Fellow 
FEDERICO­TEOUIERO.
Hull with 60 HP Johnson t:%B Ski Aces NICE PLACE TO GO La Fortune Cof­Congratulations Pangborn's B-Team 2) Elect Rodney Dangerfield UMOC. 
•
KAMONA
& T11t-Top Trllncl: Excellent Condition. on 3) Rodney No TUES. MAR 3, 7-9 LaFortune Bring $50 Call272-6252. ... make it two champ1onsh1pS in a row!! Respect" 
BosToN sPRING Bus FINAL si<>N.uP feehouseone week away Pride" makmg the play-offs-Let's Show Dangerfield 
Make Life Easy 
deposit. Bus leaves Mar. 13. Round Steak & Ale Restau;ant a~d F~~r~jj:~,~~ Great JOb Sleepy 3 00 Floyd. Scoop-P­
Vote for BZ
Trip-$100. Questions?? Mike 2836. Cream Parlor, m conjunction w1th the Ville, The Whit-Man". Paul Rmg the Important Notice: 
BOB ZIMMERMANN
Varsity Crowd and the Notre Dame Ath­Bell" Deangelis. Captain Whalen The Campaign for Rodney Danger­
Student Senate
letic Dept., present: A 1950s ICE Wood, Bobby B.. Eric Playmg Time field will hold a meeting for all cam­NEED RID_E ..FOR 2 oR 4 ciifit.s· :rei f TlcKEYS J 
District3
CREAM SOCIAL Haas". Frank '360" Larteri, Bo Sr.. paign workers on MON. MARCH 2 on LAUDERDALE AREA, OVER SPRING ...__-------------' AND "Jhonny" Nash, Joey B. and Laura's the fourth floor of Morrissey at 11 p.m. 
FLORIDA AREA, PREFERABLY FT. _ _ 
...... ......... ................ ······ ........ . 
adventures of a boring person
BREAK. WILL SHARE USUAL PLEASE DANCE CONTEST Boy. Lisa. Gina, and Alita, Thanks for
DESPERATE! I need 2 Dayton GA's. 
Molly Woulfe. What a name, what a
Saturday afternoon at halftime of the your support. No Respect' Department:CALL LESLIE OR MAUREEN AT 7936 
Call Joe Conroy ar 8570. 
body, what a mind. The epitome of
Notre Dame-Illinois women·s basket-· Your No.1 Fan The Rodney Dangerfield Fan Club femininity encased in a form so fragile meets in a phone booth.
summer programs-LONDON (May 20-ball game. Sign-ups for the dance con­June 19) Travel in Ireland, Scotland. NEE.o.. 4...6:Avror~· ric;(I:-Ts.···ciA. ofi test will begin immediately following and sublime that the mere presence of England, France. ROME (June 15-July STUDENT. 232-0982 the men's game aginst Dayton and FRANCIE REIDY and NANCY CRONIN 
mortal men causes her to blossom. 
TO THE WWW; THE PERSONALS WAR 
14) Travel in France, Germany, Switzer­.......... ...... . contmue through the f~rst half of the Dear God, let her not be taken from us . Here·s a personal JUSt tor you two!! IS ON.Bestow upon our lowly selves the
land, and Italy. Courses in Art, Busi­Need two Dayton GAs$$$J1m 277-0331 women's game. Only couples may How about Ho Jo's sometime?!? 
ness and Economics, Education. compete, but singles can s1gn up and Smiles from ME!!!
grace of her everlasting being 
TERESA.
And Father Sorin cast her in gold and
Government. History, Italian and Nurs­be pa~red with a mystery partner. Prizes My salad bar sweetheart. I have
set her atop the Dome. Amen. 
ing available. Organizational Meeting ATTENTION PROFIT MAXIMIZING include Farrell's "Troughs'' and dinner Happy 21st Bithday Karen Fernandes! admired you from a distance long
Scoop
March tO. For Info. Call Prof. A.A. Black ENTREPRENEURS: NYC Bankers offer at Steak & Ale. All contestants will Hope it's a great year. enough. I want to meet you. Where can 
284-4948 (office) or 272-3726 (home) to make you rich in exchange for 2 GA receive a free 1ce cream cone at the Love, 
we meet? ACC concession stand. Come JOin the Dawn
JAN E-O. 
lr----.;_;;.;.,..:.;,;;,:.;;,;,;,;..;,;,.. ;,;,...~...:.;·;,;,..;,;,.. ·.:.;·,;;.;,;;~" .... TIX to Dayton game. call John at 234-The Tall Handsome Man
WHY DO YOU HATE SCOOP? 
fun and cheer the lr~sh to v1ctory!!! ........................................................... 
............... To the Blonde and the Italian 
5782. 
Happy Birthday, BARB SCHUCHERT
Ann Landers says: 
JENNY--SORRY I MISSED YOUR DOUBLE FANTASY Have a problem? Can't sleep? Can'tLOST/FOUND IN DIRE NEED OF 2 GA OR STUDENT Here's to showing all of us your worldly 
TIX FOR DAYTON!!!! Call KATHY at BIRTHDAY, I LL.TRY TO MAKE THE The Bearded One and the Italian knowledge of sOCializing when in
. .......... ..... ....... . ........................... 
work? Can't? Killed anyone recently?
LOST: BLACK WALLET AT THE A C.C., 289·5026 MEGA BUCKS INVOLVED. PARTY TOMOOROW. HAPPY 21. Florida. Or.ly 312 more hours to go.
Constipated? Fall down and go boo­
.......................... BETH ROBERT RIVERA: Love. Marcia and Maria 
THURSDAY, FEB 19. REWARD IF boo? Good Luck in the upcommg BengalNeed six Dayton tickets. Will pay $$FOUND. CALL 232-0760. 
Call Debba x1705. To the nice girl I escorted from the Well, all you have to do is Bouts!!! We're behind you all the way!! 
DearJ.B. library to Lew1s last Sunday at 11 :30. 1 GET COUNSELING! Tu Amigo... 
Happy 5th. See you tonight.
LOST GOLD BENRUS LADY'S 
...........................
Need Dayton GA and student tix. Call forgot your name, butl'd like to see you Love ya,WRISTWATCH IN LIBRARY AUD ON2· 
UGLY MAN IS COMING! 
8485 agam. Please call me. There once was a young man named M.P.
6. IF FOUND, PLEASE CALL TERESA 
Save your penn1es! 'T2156. 
Larry GLASSER, 
UMOC is an equal opportunity charity.
Need tickets for Dayton game. Student 1049) Who was only a so-soB-ball passer, The Death Star? 
and GA Call Pat at 3455. .......... So he walked onto the Dayton team, 
LOST: A PAIR OF EYEGLASSES. 
BENGAL BOUTS THIS SU.NDAYCOME THE GREAT aoai<·s::r..tE GREAT That's why Saturday N.D. will 
What is this Death Star? Who wouldLIGHT BROWN FRAMES IN A NAVY NEED 2 DAYTON GA TICKETS. BIG$$$ ON OUT AND SUPPORT YOUR MINDs-MEET FACUL TV AND STU­scream, deliver themselves over1o the dark side ~.ASE LOST FEB. 12.FRI CALL 
FAVORITE FIGHTER GOOD LUCK TO DENTS OF THE GENERAL PROGRAM HEY DAYTON, PUT IN GLASSER
Call Dave at1143 of The Force? Beware the Oebelians-­>USAN AT 7859. 
ALL THE SENIORS!!!! OF LIBERAL STUDIES MONDAY, !! !!! !! !! ! 
they are 1n league with the dark NEEDED!! 2 DAYTON GA TIX FOR P.S. He hasn't scored a point all
MARCH2, 7:30P.M. GRACE PIT 
forces..
LOST COMP. GOVT. NOTEBOOK. 
MIKECRAY: MAULSOMEONE.iNBEN: season!!
PARENTS. GOOD $$$. CALL FRANK ......................
EFT ON COPY MACHINE IN GAL'S,AND WIN TOO. GOOD LUCI<. open a door to the sophomore literary
AT8295. Is it poss1ble that Col. Zero Max. theLAFORTUNE IF FOUND, PLEASE 
FROM3-C. fest1val march 1-7 HEY DAYTON. N.D. WANTS GLASSER 
red-headed poacher of the North, andALL MARK 1686. 
!!I !I! To ouR THREE NEW JE.Fiiii:iv..ME·~~. Jeff Jeffers for UMOC Good MJney paid for Dayton stuudent Capt. Axe, the notorious Moose Con­
or G.A. Tickets. Call Joe, 18t5. troller of the Yukon. to form a HolyLOST-Camera-Wednesday February 
Get set for a wild and crazy weekend JIM GOODE is uglier than JEFF JEF· 
League? Could they save the Universe 5. Please call277-7695 Desparate! 
TYPING MY HOME. uNiv. PARK AREA: 
With, yes, our parents during SMC FERS. Jim Goode for UMOC. 
and still escape the revenge of the sur­
277-3085
Sophmore Parent Weekend! Love. 
vivors of the Death Star's latest target. 
LOST: GREEN NURSING NOTEBOOK 
Three Hoosiers MIKE,
[jeRSONALS I
IN 203 O'SHAUGHNESSY ON TUES­THE N.J. CLUB HAS ONLY 5 SEATS GOOD LUCK defending your EARNED Debutante Sweater Lady invites allDAY. PLEASE CALL 4486 (SMC) OR LEFT ON THE BUS. CALL CHRIS AT TITLE on Sunday! 
gentlemanly studs to visit her web ofRETURN TO N.D. LOST & FOUND. 
goodbye! 4479 OR KEVIN AT 7687 TO RESERVE Your No.1 Fan Always. 
pleasure this weekend. Bring your own 
...... ' ............ "'''' Thanks to everyone ever connected YOURSEAT!!I Kathy 
sweaters..
Lost on lto22 i~ Ang~l~ ~~~ Spld~i g~ld Feider pride never dies. to the Observer who has ventured with· ............................................. .............................. 
watch. If found, please call 4332 
in my influence, or I in theirs. The past GILA MEMBERS!! DON'T MISS IT!! Albo, Carthog and Combs. 
Dear mom, 
Reward. Need ride .to Minne~~i~-i~~·b~~~k. will four years have been. without doubt, FRIDAY is the last day to apply tor a When you least expect it... EXPECT 
Have you eaten a TV d1nner lately? 
share usual. Call Steve 1756. one of the most fulfilling experiences I CILA OFFICERSHIP!! Call Tom at3104 IT!!! 
Love, Mary Lost: Amway brown attache case with 
......... 
by FRIDAY. -. . . . . . . . . . . . . 
There are times, usually around.. 5 have ever had the pleasure to share . 
with others, surpassed perhaps only by --............................................ . ITALIAN BARTENDER· 
Aloe Vero info ins1de and other impor­0: What do you hear 1n a dentist's
a.m., when desperation begins to sel tant paper. If found call Independent office in the Yukon?
sex. My eternal gratitude IS expressed AT LAST! THE BLUFF MEETS THE Anthony can't be Steven Lars and
in. At such times. it is always good to Cab Co. 234-0300 or 234-0932 and ask A. Mooseak!
especially for Margie, Pam, Michael, DOMEI BARBARA VERCELLOTTI & Heather knows it. Heather's a God. She
remember exactly where you are and 
Phil, TJ, Steve, Ryan, Lynne, Molly, CO. ARE NOW HONORARY DOMERS. hit Fort Charles, then who knows..
tor Rev. (Thanks to Karen Rensberger. she of
what you are about lnvanably, this will M1ck, Brucegod. Johnny Max, all my (WHICH MEANS YOU HAVE TO EAT Crown Potnt??? 

the toothy gnn. for that bit of a moose­favorite typ1sts, Bob, Jim. Grag, Tim, DINING HALL FOQOI) WELCOME TO YOUR BIO BLOWOFF BUDDY lead to a simple, effective solution to all men!.)
of your problems. Panic seldom helps, Bruce Springsteen. Marlene, the great NO! 
Moose Controlthough some are wont to think it will. 
layout god Kebe, my most admirable BARB S LITTLE BROTHER MMamaC,
FOR RENT 
A cool head will not melt ice. 1don't 
photographers, Jane-o, Beth. Frak. If not how about a cheese dog at
know what 1t means, but it sounds Patty! Monica!
0 Why IS Bill N~ittst so ugt}.'?
Ceil, the corps of layout peons, Patsy. GADs after Corbys one n1ght. • 
The evtl Colonel Zero Max (he wasgood, and it probably will prove useful
FOR RENT-UGLY DUCKLING RENT­A: Because his mother fed him brus­
Teri, Mike, Pmk Floyd, Tom, Kevin, my Tom 
just promoted) has bamshed me to ato remember. I Will never again be
A-CAR FROM $7.95 A DAY AND 7 sels sprouts w1th a slingshot.
roommates. the payroll department, life-long eMile of working in the Yukonstuck for somethong to say, even in my
CENTS A MILE PHONE 259-UGLY VOTE BILL GRIZZ' NELLIST FOR
Paul, Rusty, people who read my per­Amy
most stifling moments. 1 Will always labor camp every Thursday nightl he
FOR RESERVATIONS UMOC
sonals', boring persons everywhere, Thanks for six fantastic months
have the "unmelting." has utilized his dictatonal powers to 
..... . .............. . 
the Lord God. Star Wars. brand new You're an extremely kme woman. 
wrench me from your warm, comfort­Each one of us should have such a
AVAILABLE NEXT SCHOOL YEAR 2 BOSTON!! SIGNUP FOR SPRING BUS
waxers, razor blades. reduction The Scum buzzard
phrase. Each one of us should have Ing Sunday n1ght embraces and has
FIVE BEDROOM HOUSES 234·2626 MAR 3, 7-9 LaFortune. $50 non refund.
wheels, US 3t, Denny s. Sh~rley, the 
...................................... ······ ..
many such phrases. then maybe there forcefully hurled me into the cold. dark, 
deposit required, or bring full payment
Univers1ty of Notre Dame, and even the Where in God's name 1s the Debelian
would be more of us. That could be barren tundra. Oh. to what do I owe
of $100 for round tnp. Questions? Mike
desolate Siberia known as South Bend. sector?
good or bad. dependmg on your out­such hornble pumshment?
Four years 1n Notre Dame? Why not 2836 or Jim 1528. BOSTON SPRING
in addition to anyone who has ever scoop
look. Are you half-empty, or half-lull? Your ex-boss.
buy a house and live almost rent free BUS!!
seen me, heard of me, forgotten me, or MikeAre you a glass of water? The average Let your equity pay your rent. Call never met me.
human being IS mostly water. How 
P.S. Mon1ca. could you spare one ofMotts at House of Realty for details, Unfortunately, alii can g1ve all of you
does that make you feel? If you think your sweaters? It's cold up here.
289-7966 or 674-8512 evenmgs. 
is a large personal. Suffice it to say that
about it. we·re mostly all wet. I think we Chuck Mason for Student Body Presi­
BOSTON BUS ..DETAiLS..AT ..SiGNUP
l 
my debt to all of you is personally large 
should all dry up. dent (An imaginary character lor an im­earth-Dog.
TUESDAY. LEAVES THE 13th
Let us all move on to grander and even
I only hope it's not later than it aginary position) Thank you very much!
RETURNS THE 22nd.
WANTED 
happ1er times. 
seems. M1ke 
...................................
J scoop
The early bird eats things that crawl Vote for Chuck Mason-Student Body
BENGAL BOUTS Need nde to Pittsburgh-Morgantown Pres1dent Rock Clip -Student Body
in the ground. Happy belaled b~rthday, Dan B.
BENGAL BOUTS 
.............. K.A.
area on March 4.1 want to see tthe Dead Vice President
BENGAL BOUTS 
Happy 12th Birthday Mary Gugle! To the Moose 1eg1ons:
In P1tts. Call Don 6718 ... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . 
MARCH 1, 4, AND 7TH. 
Moose Control and friends We are yet awaiting off1c1al contact Need nde to Northern Jersey or Allen­.. . . . . . ..... . . . . . . .. . . . ' . . . . . ' ..... . Happy belated btrthday, Dan B.
BE THERE!!!! 
' from Colonel Zero Max. Rema1n battle­town, Pa. area. MUST LEAVE no laterI NEED A RIDE TO EMTSBURG. K.A.
Molly (Bruce) W ready. Zero Max cannot be allowed to thai! March 11, 12. Will share usual.
MARYLAND(MSM COLLEGE) OR GET­You got an orangutan for UD? Thais ·overthrow Control. Each of you must Call Mike at 4579 TYSBG, PA.-ANYTIME JOE 1142 Dear She1la. Carol, and Mary, 
RYAN VER BERKMOES FOR UMOC 
THERE IS NO DOUBT. . Sorry I was such a grouch on the way no way to treat Fanny s No. 1 lady" of be ready to make the ultimate sacrifice 
11 we are unsuccessful in swaymg the
the week (Is 11 true you know all those Colonel Zero Max. 
2 R·,oEs NEeDEora·s~: FLofi,IJA FRi home from Ch1cago. It wasn't all tllat 13 MARCH. WILL SHARE DRIVING. EX· tncks?) poacher r·h-;s ··s·~~d~~---~-~---AN. TOST:A:L:s···;irst bad having you three 10 the car. Happy Desp1te the above tale, I thank you
There Will be no mercy -on e1ther 
very much for the opportunity!
.PENSES CALL 1487 meetmg. Be There!!! tra1lsSide-11 war should come
Burkes. Gugles. Hulleys. & Lowdens Lost and Lonel) 
.... .............................. . Dave Dz1edz1c
Captam Axe Welcome to a fun-filled weekend atneed nde to chicago for break mary SMC With your VIVaCIOUS daughters!
fran 7992 
.. 
. .. ,. . .. ' .
...... v .... 
-· 


-


Friday, February 27. 1981 -p;1ge l (} 
orts 
21st victory 
ND overpowers St. Francis 
By KELLY SULLIVAN let that happen again. Whenever almost fainted. I've been wanting AssistantSports Editor their top 6 or 7 guys were in, they one all season." played like they should have." Senior walk-on Kevin Hawkins got 
Last night's basketball game be­"Convey's injury took away our his first points of the season on a tween Notre Dame and St. Francis effectiveness and our overall couple of free throws in the game's could be termed the letdown that balance," he continued. But I'm not closing seconds. never was. Notre Dame's 87-71 vic­sure he would have made a big dif­Bill Varner led the rest of the tory surprised many people who ex­ference. Notre Dame is a powerful Notre Dame bench with six points, pected the Irish to he a little flat after team, and they showed some real while centers Joe Kleine and Tim Sunday's hig win over Virginia. quickness tonight also." Andree combined for eight. 
One reason the anticipated "close Senior tri-captain Orlando Wool­
"I wanted to play the bench,"
call" never materialized was that St. ridge once again dominated both 
Phelps said. "They deserved to play,
Francis' leading scorer and MVP, 6-0 ends of the court, pacing Notre 
senior Bob Convey, was Dame 16 and and I wanted to see what they could
less than with points 9 
do."
I00 percent after slipping a disk in rebounds. He was followed hy John his hack earlier this week. Averaging Paxson's 15 points on 7-of-9 from IS ppg, the senior guard finished the floor. Kelly Tripucka and Tracy Kleine was 2-for-2 on layups while with only four points on a 1-for-6 ef­Jackson added 14 and 12, grabbing 4 rebounds. fort from the floor. respectively. 
But an even bigger reason was "We had a lot of incentive to win "I'm more comfortable and better probably Digger Phelps' fervent plea this one," remarked Woolridge. "It's adjusted to college ball now," noted to his team and the student body to one of the last home games for the the freshman. "Coach has more faith 
avoid complacency. It would have seniors. Besides, Digger stressed in­in me, and I'm starting to get a little been all too easy for everyone to tensity all week long, reminding us more confidence in myself." overlook the Red Flash, a "breather" we could get upset anytime if we
! I sandwiched on the schedule be­became too overconfident." IRISH ITEMS -Notre Dame will I f tween two powers. Last night's contest marked a close out its home schedule Satur­
I ! 
"We were very concerned about number offirsts for Irish ballplayers. day afternoon when they host they 
I f 
not having another Fairfield game," , Gil Salinas, recovering from a torn Dayton Flyers ...Five members of the offered Phelps. "We showed our ligament in his knee, returned to ac­Irish football team were honored at i l players film of the DePaul-Old . tion for the first time in over a halftime for national awards Dominion game, where DePaul had month. The senior forward, treated received during the season...they
I 
a five point lead and the ball with a to a standing ovation when he en­were seniors· Tom Gibbons, Bob minute left and lost. We wanted to tered the game in the first half, Burger, Scott Zettek, and Mike he ready for anything." chipped in six points. Courey, and junior Bob Crable. Leading by six, 31-25, with five "We just wanted to play him
I 
john Paxson goes up for
minutes left before halftime, the tonight, to get him involved," said· two 
~ 
Irish capitalized on St. Francis tur­Phelps. "But it's going to take him St.Francis. (photo by Helen Odar) novers, outscoring the Red Flash 13· time to get his game back." 
···-· ·-·::.;.:.··-...:.:.:.···===:::::::===========~:::::==::=====..:..;:..;~--.:....::.:..:..:.::...
4 to take a 1 S point lead into the Another debut was made by lockerroom. It was all academic af. everyone's favorite freshman, Cecil ter that. A 64 percent shooting effort Rucker. The 6-8 forward slammed from the floor lifted Notre Dame to home his first dunk in an Irish uni-' 
Last chance for Irish 
their 2 I st win of the sea..o;on and left form with 23 seconds remaining in the visitors with a 16-9 slate. the game. The shot earned him a "I was hoping to catch them as­technical for hanging on the rim. 
Wisconsin invades ACC for series 
leep," explained St. Francis coach "I shouldn't be so happy because I
l. 
Dave Magarity, "but I guess Notre got a technical," related Rucker with By BRIAN BEGLANE have to help ourselves. We missed league opponents and 3-12-2 over­Dame's had too many dose calls to a big grin. "But I was so exhilarated I Sports Writer on countless scoring opportunities all. But it's now or never ifthey hope ~~~~~~========~~-last week against Colorado College to advance to their I Oth straight 
The circus comes to the ACC (CC won both games). It was very WCHA tournament. tonight and tomorrow. frustrating. Injuries once again will hamper "Now we have to go out and win Irish. Scott
To face Irish There won't be any tents or wild the Defensemen two games and hope for the best Cameron (injured shoulder) and
animals -well, maybe some -but the .ringmaster is the Wisconsin from the North Dakota-Duluth Jim Brown (ankle injury) will miss hockey team and the rest of the series." their third straight series and junior
Dayton,s 'Flyered up, 
Winning two games here might be goalie Laurion will
troupe will consist of anywhere Dave also be asking a lot ofthe Irish. Their record
from 800 to 1,000 screaming, red­See ICERS, page 14this year at the ACC is I-I 0-1 against 
By FRANK LaGROTTA I09-100, (triple OT) and Xavier, 73-cowboy-hatted Badger fans. Sports Writer 64. Junior center Mike Kanieski has It's Notre Dame vs. Wisconsin in been the big gun for Dayton, scoring what always is an exciting series. 

17.4 points and grabbing 8.4 A sellout crowd is expected each lt was after Notre Dame's victory-rebounds per game. night ( 7:30 faceoff both games), 
Bengal Bouts are back, 
by-the-skin-oftheir-teeth over "Dayton is a very good offensive thanks to the large contingent of LaSalle last month that Digger was team," points out Irish assistant Badger loyalists. And the stakes for reminding his team: coach Pete Gillen, who scouted the both teams are very high. 
begin Sunday at A CC 
"I told you guys at the beginning Flyers against Duquesne. "They run Pick your cliche for the Irish: of the season and I'm telling you a passing game offense and they get there is no tomorrow, now or never, The tradition-packed Notre Dame 138-pound brackets include,
again now: Three of the toughest the ball inside very well. They are a do or die, etc. Bengal Bouts return to the Athletic respectively, seniors Rob Rivera and
gamcs we'll play this season will be good shooting team and they like to Notre Dame has one last chance and Convocation Center on Sunday, Dan Mohan. Law student Tom
;1gainst LaSalle, South Carolina and run when they get the opportunity." to sneak into the Western Collegiate 
Dayton." Besides Kanieski, whom Gillen Hockey Association playoffs. The March 1 at 1:30 p.m. The main arena McCabe is a defending champ at Tough, Diggcr explained later, be-labels Dayton's bt'St player, the ninth place Irish, 8-I 7-1 ( 1 7 points) event is being coordinated by first­165-pounds and junior Mike Burke time bout director Dr. Richard Hun­returns as the 175-pound champion.
cmse those teams arc better than Flyers rely heavily on freshman in the WCHA and 12-.20-2 overall, ; r-apman, o trail Minnesota-Duluth by one point. Sunday's
the,· appt:ar on pan.·r. Tougher, he RooseveIt Ch wh averages ter. quarterfinal card, Club officer Jim Mladenik, a senior, wt·nt on. bel:ause the''; would love to 1 3 pom· ts and stx· rebounds per The occupant ofthe eighth seat gets which will open the 51st edition of was the 1980 runner-up at 1 50­the Bengal Bout program, has plenty pounds and should rate as a pre­
heat Notre Dame. game. Senior Richard Montague has the last ticket to post-season play. ofgood seats available. Prices are $2 tournament favorite in that class.
""One of the problems withi been scoring at an 11.7 clip per con­To make the playoffs, Duluth at playing a team like LaSalle or Dayton · test. least must lose or tie one game ofits for ringside seating and S I. 50 for Also, senior Scott Zettek, an All­
is that sports writers and fans don't "Defensively Dayton likes to play home series this week against North general admission (lower arena) American defensive end for the look at it ;Lo; a 'big game'," says Dig· man-to-man," says Gillen. "BUl they Dakota. Two UMD losses could stubs. Notre Dame football team last fall, will highlight the heavyweight
~ 
ga. "Sometimt·s that attitude can in-do play some zone. They hustle and mean the playoffs for the Irish.
i 
feet a haskt·thall team ·and that's are very well coached." Notre Dame must win or tie at Proceeds from the Bengals' tour­entries.
!\ 
I wht:'n we ha\·e probit'm!>. The Flyers have extra motivation least one game to have any hopes. ney will go to the Holy Cross Mis­"With only four champs returning ( ;; ( "Let me say this about Saturday's in tomorrow's game because they But even two wins would do the sions of Bangladesh. The Bengal from 1980," said Hunter, "most of 
r ) game with Dayton. Year in and year still have a chance at an NCAA or Irish no good if Duluth wins two Missions have received almost the weight classes should be wide­open."
out they give us as much trouble as NIT playoff invitation. Undoubtedly games. The picture can be compl­5500,000 in the half-century history The semifinals will be on Wednes­
" any team we play. Dun Donoher's a victory over Notre Dame would do icated and it looks like it will end in a of the bouts. All money from ticket 
X teams always come to play and they much to further that cause. photo finish. sales will he donated to charity and day, March 4, at 7:30 p.m. with ringside seats selling for !2 and
always seem to be particularly well "We know they'll be ready and Wisconsin, meanwhile, could Rich Hunter has announced that the general admission for Sl. 50. In front
prepared to play us. They've beaten waiting for us." warns Digger. finish as high as tied for first or as low Notre Dame Boxing Club has set its can on Saturday,
San Frandsco and Marquette -two "They'll be hoping to catch us still as sixth -if you believe a sights on attracting I0,000 fans for of the NBC cameras the Bengal finals (March 7) which, March 7, ringside tickets are priced
of the teams that beat us this year -enjoying that Virginia win and WCHA race as tight as that. The at 13 and general admission tickets
so we shouldn't have any problems looking ahead to DePaul. We need a Badgers are 22-12-0 overall and 16-for the third consecutive year, will are listed at 12. Season ticket
taking them seriously." . great deal of crowd support and we 10-0 in the league ( 3.2 points). be aired by NBC's SportsWorld The Firers will bring a 17-8 have to be confident and play our "We are in a tough position," said sometime in March. packages t(>r all three cards are on 
Some 7S students will participate sale at the ACC ticket office with a
record to South Bend which in-game." Irish coach Lefty Smith. "We need 52 charge for students and a 14 fee 
eludes a three-game winning streak Tip off for tomorrow's contest is help from North Dakota for the in the 12 Bengal weight classes. 
for adults. 
over Canisius, 78-S6, Duquesne, slated for 1:.30 p.m. EST. playoffs, hut more importantly, we Returning champions in the 133 and 




i .--~--­

