• • .Lottery -page 6 


El Salvador 
War devastateschildren 
VOL. XV. NO. 124 
THURSDAY, APRIL 9, 1981

an independem srudent newspaper serving nmre dame and saint mary's
............................ 
Shuttle schedule finn, Astronauts 'ready to fly' 
EDITOR'S NOTE Mercedes Castro is 13, the oldest of six brothers and sisters. She hasn't seen her mother orfather since tbe nigbt lastyear when men with guns came to ber home and took the parents away. For seven months, Mercedes was in sole charge ofthe children. Her story is a typical one in El Sal­vador's refugee camps today. Here is a report on the "Children ofWar." 

By TOM FENTON 
Associated Pn!ss Writer 
ZARAGOZA, El Salvador (AP) ­Their bellies are bloated by mal­nutrition and parasites, arms and legs shrun~en grotesquely. 
Some suffer from shell-shock and war nerves. They may cringe from adults and awaken crying in the night, dreaming ofhorrors they can­not relate. 
Some wet the bed, and vomit when they try to eat. Some grope with tiny fingers for any grownup, calling incessantly for "Mama." 


:, 
They are the worst of the child victims of El Salvador's savage little civil war, part ofthe human fallout in a conflict that claimed 13,000 lives last year. 
No one knows for sure how many children have been orphaned or abandoned but there is universal agreement many are suffering. 
The Roman Catholic Church is caring for 1,000 children and priests say there could be 10,000 that need help. 
Justice Minister Mario Antonio Solano said in an interview in San Sal­vador, the capital, the government is caring for 1,100 children in three centers and helping others. He es­timated that 50,000 children 12 years and under have been displaced by the fighting between Marxist-led guerrillas and the forces of the u.s.­
supported civilian-military govern­
ment. 
The church and the government run separate refugee camps. Offi­cials at both said the worst child cases probably exist in areas ofcon­flict in the northern part of the. country. 
It is a loose rule of thumb here that church refugee camps house anti-government refugees while government-sponored camps and the Red Cross house government sympathizers. 
The church's Legal Aid Commit­tee, an orga nization accused by the government and conservative churchmen of aiding leftists, claims security forces and their paramilitary allies have killed 237 children. The committee was set up within the San Salvador archdiocese to give poor people legal assistance and to keep track of human rights violations. 
"Many of these kids are in bad shape when we get them. Some have been wandering in the mountains for days. They're like little zombies," said the Rev. Ken Myer, a Catholic priest from Lorain, Ohio, who opened a children's home last Sep­tember in this village 20 miles south ofthe capital. The center, whose lar­gest single source of support is the diocese of Cleveland, has 200 children. 
The little ones sleep three to a cot and all share four toilets. Older children help care for the younger ones and the soft-spoken priest said he plans to take in 800 more children now housed at other church facilities as soon as he can. 
Myer will not accept any children over age 13. He said older children might be accused of becoming politicized or even being com­batants. 
The 39-year-old priest said most displaced children suffer from mal­nutrition, parasites and skin diseases. 
Some, like 1 E-month-old Arnoldo, have suffered irreperable brain damage because ofmalnutrition. 
Arnoldo can not walk, talk oreven crawl. The flesh just covers the bones ofhis arms and legs. Placed on the floor, he can barely move his head. 
Mercedes Castro, a 13-year-old moppet with eyes like dark, shiny buttons, has been given charge ofAr­noldo. She rocked him in a ham­
mock  while  the  priest  was  
interviewed.  
Mercedes  is  the oldest of six  

brothers and sisters at the center and her story is an example of what has happened to many children in El Salvador, plagued by terrorists from both quarters. 
"We don't know who they were," she said. "They came at night when we were asleep. They took mommy and daddy away and we never saw them again." 
See WAR, page 4 CAPE CANAVERAL, Fla. (AP) ­

Astronauts John Young and Robert 
Crippen arrived ht:re early yester­
day, "ready to fly" their historic mis­
sion aboard the reliable rocket ship 
Columbia. They relaxed by doing 
acrobatics in a pair of traint-r jets as 
work to prepare the shuttle raced 
ahead ofschedule. 
Launch managers said all was go for dawn, 6:'50 a.m. EST to be precise, on Friday. 
After a steak dinner with their 
boss, the astronauts went to bed at 
6: IS p.m. EST, an early wake-up l:all awaiting them. On the launch pad, activities were running ahead of schedule after t·arly countdown delays. 
Young, who has been in space 
four times before, said he brought 
enough clothes from home in Hous­
ton to last a month, his way of 
making sure there would be a Friday 
launch. "Every other time," he ex­
plained, "I never brought enough 
and always had to stay longer." 
The countdown, rebounding from a trouble-plagued start, was "uneventful" late yesterday and run­ning ahead of schedule. The weat­her, a source of concern, was predicted to be fine and Soviet rhetoric lent an element of super­power suspicion. 
Launch managers were polled on the shuttle's status yesterday morn­ing and, "It was nothing but a series of go's," Brian Duff, public affairs director for the National Aerononautics and Space Ad­ministration, said. By late afternoon, work was going so well there was breathing room in the countdown. 
Young and Crippen left the Johnson Space Center in Houston following a final meeting with their NASA flight controllers. 
Kenndedy Sapce Center, expect­ing a million people to watch from the roads and beaches, was pulsing with excitement unmatched since men last went to the moon from the same pad, 39A, in 1972. The tdevi­sion networks wert· at the site to car­ry tht: launch live and dw press compound was transformed into a tent and trailer city. 
The launch drew the attention of the chief ofSoviet cosmonaut train­ing, who said tht· shuttle program will touch off a new arms race ami bring "the United States nothing, no advantages, except new, enormous. 
Se; FLY, page 4 
.Saint Mary's 
•
acqutres ne'\\7 board 
By MARY AGNES CAREY 
Saint Mary•'s Executive Editor 
Saint Mary's Student Body Presi­dent Eileen Murphy has selected Board of Governance commis­sioners for the 1981-82 academic year. 
Junior Joan Gjostdn will serve as alumnae commissioner, while Heidi Krumdieck, sophomore, is next year's athletic commissioner. Junior Anne Hulme will head development and Mary Elizabeth Ott, junior, will serve as election commissioner. 
Junior Patty Gallagher is next year's judicial commissioner, Mary Leavitt, junior, will head the Student Activities Programming Board (SAPB) and Juniors Kathleen Engler and Rachael Scherer will be presi­dent and vice-president, respective­ly, ofoff-campus activities. 

Sophomore Maureen Hunt will serve as secretary and junior Ann Gassman will be treasurer for the Murphy ~dministration, while Cindy Jaskiewicz, junior, is next year's spiritual commissioner and Junior JoAnn Wenner will serve as social justice commissioner. 

Plans return 
Reagan suffers no complications 
WASHINGTON (AP)-President Reagan, showing continued improvement with no sign ofcomplications from his gunshot wound, probably will be ready to return to the White House as early as tomorrow and no later than Monday, a key physician said yesterday. 
"He will not be chopping wood next week, hut Reagan should be able to put in a couple hours ofwork at his desk each day," said Dr. Dennis O'Leary, dean of clinical affairs at George Washington University Hospi­tal where the president is recuperating. 
The president likely will be recovered 100 percent within four months, O'Leary estimated, adding: "he might do a little better." 
Reagan, in his ninth day ofconvalescence, was visited by former Texas Gov. john Connally, himselfthe victim of a gunshot wound in the assassination ofjohn F. Ken­nedy. 
"He's doingexceptionally well ... JUSt couldn't be bet· ter," Connally said as he departed. 
He advised Reagan not to hurry back to the Oval Office but said the president's tendenq probably will be to "get back to work too soon and do too much." 
Connally said he told Reagan "that was a mistake. It's going to take him considerable time to get over it." 
The president signed a proclamation designating the week of April 19 as "Victims Rights Week," calling at­tention to the needs ofvictims ofcrime. 

It made no mention of Rc.:agan's own case. 
He also signed an executive order creating an ad­visory committee to find ways to give states some powers and responsibilities now held by the federal government. The panel will be headed by close frieml and fellow conservative Paul Laxalt, a Republkan senator from Nevada. 
The walls of the president's hospital room were new­ly decorated with get well cards drawn by school­children around the country. He heard they had bet'n received at the White House and asked that they be: St'nt to his room. 
More than 74,600 telegrams, letters and cards and 400 to '500 flower bouquets have poured in since the shooting March 30, said Karna Small, deputy press secretary. Many ofthe bouquets are being sent to nurs­ing homes and other hospitals, Ms. Small said. 
Among gifts sent to the president were a music box, a goldfish and a 55-pound glass pigfilled with jelly beans. 
Vice President George Bush, filling in for Reagan at the White House, swore in Art Teele as administrator of the Urban Mass Transit Authority. 
Bush, already scheduled to deliver a speech for Reagan in Tuskeegee, Ala, Sunday, will fly on to Hous­ton the same day to greet the returning pilots of the space shuttle Columbia, assuming it is launched on schedule, the White House announced. 

• 

Thursday, April9, 1981 -page 2



NewsBrieb 
~~~=======*==============================~ 
by The Observer and The Associated Press 
An endowed scholarship fund for students in tht: Colkgt: of Busint:ss Administration at tht: University of Notre Dame has been established by Thomas F. Grojean, president ofTiger International, Inc., i.n Los Angeles, and named for his parents, Francis and Veronica Grojean, living in California. In announcing the S50,000 commitment to endow the fund, Notrt: Dame's president Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., said, "We are indeed grateful to Tom and others like him whose generosity enables the University to open its doors to tht: most talented students despite their financial cir­cumstances. Ascholarship fund is especially gratifying because Notre 
Damt:'s impact on society will be made principally by its gr 
and the Grojt:an Scholarship Fund will greatly help Notre Dame ed­
ucate the best students from various socioeconomic backgrounds."' 
Grojean, a 1960 Notre Dame alumnus, is chairman of the Univer­
sity's College of Business Administration's Advisory Council. His son, 
Tom Jr., is a freshman at tht: Univt:rsity. -The Obseroer 
PopeJohn Paul II said yesterday that he condemned artificial birth control and quoted the late Pope Paul VI, saying the use of contraceptives may lead to selfishness. "Pope Paul VI wrote in Humanae Vitae that it is to be feared that, by growing accustomed to contraceptive practices, a husband may lose respect for his wife and consider her a mere means of selfish pleasure and no longer a com­panion whom he respects and loves," the pope told 30,000 people attending his first open air general audience at St. Peter's Square this year. Humanae Vitae was Pope Paul VI's 1968 encyclical which con­demned birth control exct:pt for the rhythm method of periodic abstinence. -AP 
Several coal mine owners said yesterday it could be weeks before bargaining resumes with the striking United Mine Workers union, while some union officials said a fistfight between President Sam Church and his safety director had given their organiza­tion a black eye. Scattered picketing continued in the coalfields, but there were no reports ofviolence. The union said il was swamped by requests from miners wanting to know about food stamps and benefits. Church, who has called the union's 39-mcmber Bargaining Council to meet with him tomorrow in Washington, mixed it up with Everett Acord on the street Tuesday outside the union's Washington offices. They apparemly were fighting over a letter Acord wrote to ranking union officers complaining about Church's decision to lay off union safety officials, including Acord. "He called me a no-good, rot­ten SOB and Lord knows what else," Acord said yesterday. Church refused to talk with reporters. "I don't believe in this foolishness. There's always a way to settle problems without fighting," said Bur­dette Crowe, president ofUMW district 31 in Fairmont, W.Va. "We've got enough problems and I hate to sec something like this happen." ­
AP 
Singer Wendy 0. Williams, cheered by punk 
rock fans waving signs that read, "A woman's Body is Not Obscene," went on trial yesterday on obscenity charges. The 28-year·old lead singer of the Plasmatics was accused ofperforming on stage covered only with shavingcream. Dressed in red tights, black boots and a black leather jacket, she headed into Municipal Court after speaking briefly with some 20 protesters who arrived here from New York on a bus chartered by Stiff America Records, the group's recording company. The jury trial is being televised and photographed by print media photographers. Miss Williams was charged with pandering obscenity, a first-degree misdemeanor under Ohio law. She was booked after a performance Jan. 21 in the Agora night club, which was attended by police undercover agents. During the show, Miss Williams allegedly performed nude on stage with shaving cream covering her body and did "a sado-masochistic dance using a microphone," police said. Miss Williams has pleaded innocent to the charge. -AP 
A fire captain of the Evansville Fire Department was demoted to the rank ofprivate for taking at least 13 minutes to locate a house fire less than a mile away, authorities said. "I heard the siren, but they were going the wrong way," said a neighbor ofMary Clark, whose ont··story home was heavily damaged in the March 22 fire. Fire Chief John lkhme said he demoted former Capt. Albert Appel because he did not as the dispatcher for help or consult a map of the district hefort· responding to the Clark fire call. "He never. made any attempt lo tlnd out where he was going," the chief said. "It was definitely a negltTt·of·duty situation." Behmc said Appel will remain at Hose Houst· ..., hut will assume the rank of private if the Safety Board ap­pro\'L'S his recommendation at its meeting today. -AP 
The Daily Pennsylvanian, campus newspaper at 
tht·l'nivcrsity ofPennsylvania, has taken away the column ofDominic \1anno. a senior who wrote that he had hop<.·d President Reagan would die from the wound suffered in the March 30 assassination att<.·mpt. A spokesman for the newspaper's gov~rning board said Man­no. 23. resigned after \1onday's decision. The board also suspended for a week Liz :\k:\tillen. a sophomore and editorial chairman who appro\'cd :\tanno's April l column "The Bullet and the Ballot." The Secrt~t Service inn:stigated .\1anno but decided against prosecuting him because it determined he didn't pose a threat to Reagan, said Kevin Tu~:kcr. special agent in charge in Philadelphia. -AP 
Chance of showers today becoming breezy and t·ooler with gradually clearing skies. Highs ncar 60. Clear and cool tonight with lows near 40. Sunny and mild tomorrow with highs in the upper 60s. -AP 
The immoral minority 
As a notoriously wishy-washy person, I have always 
respected people with strong convictions one way or 
the other on an issue. I also find their self-assurance 
rather offensive. Lobbyists are such people. 
Lobbyists devote their life to a cause, working to get 
the public to see things their way by first winning 
government support and then having their doctrines 
dribble down to the common folk. Many lobbies arc Big 
Business personified -they have the bucks to win 
votes and stir up the necessary support. 
Oddly enough -or maybe not so oddly -the minority opinion often has more money to work with, along with a louder contingent of supporters. This is true both on the lobbying level and in day-to-day life. People in the minority seem to feel that they have to yell to be heard, that their attack has to be more vicious and that they must provide massive monetary suppo~ to the candidates who uphold their views. 
This"moral minority" also employs emotional tactics to achieve a level of indignation in people who, if left alone, would probably be better able to see the op­ponent's viewpoint in a more sympathetic light. But this must not be, say the Chosen. As the Chosen, they are the only ones who are Right. 
This is all well and good, but all too often the majority 
must suffer as a result ofthis well-intentioned ex­uberence. Take the gun con­trol issue, for example. The latest nation-wide survey that deals with the issue of gun control reveals that 62 percent of all Americans desire some type of control on firearms. And this poll was taken before the latest assassination attempt. Presumably this figure would be even higher today. 
The only reason that there is no resemblance of arms 

control in the U.S. can be stated in three letters: N·R-A. The National Rifle Associa­tion, with its annual budget of 530 million, manages to compensate for its dearth ofpublic support with a plet­hora of funds. It is commendable that though the NRA may disregard the principles of democracy it at least upholds the tenets of capitalism: the rich will triumph 
in the end. 

But should democracy he forgotten? Glancing through a copy ofmy local newspaper, I read that a girl from my hometown won a national speech contest. She began her speech with a quotation from a poem by Robert Frost entitled "The Road Not Taken." In this poem, the author relates a symbolic tale ofstanding at a fork in the road and, after much soul-searching, electing to travel the one that was overgrown from disuse. This, Frost claims, "made all the difference." In the girl's speech, she likened this choice to the one made by the Founding Fathers when thev decided to blaze a trail in­to democracy. . 
]"his comparison is an apt one and it may be helpful to remember today. Too many people are choosing the route marked self-interest when there is a break in the road. The alternative -democracy -is unappealing to them, for they would rather not defer to the majority. Defeat is unthinkable, not to mention unnecessary. Self­interest is a shortcut to power. After all, all they have to do is raise a little more money, make a little more noise, and before you know it they will have won. And the majority will be subjugated to the dictates of the minority. 

If this sounds familiar, it is probably because it hap­pens more often than one might think. And it happens close to home. How about the WHC Nestle boycott, instituted more than two years ago. Or the FLOC Campbell-Libby's boycott? Surely, a majority of ND­SMC students do not lose any sleep over the Africans or the farmworkers, nor do they even know why we are 

boycotting these products. These organizations should be commended for their well-intentioned ex­uberence -not to mention their ability to yell the loudest and longest. 
Now we come to the most controversial issue of them all. Abortion. Time Magazine last week had a coverfeature on the subject, while Newsweek confined its coverage to the inner pages. Both wrote in apprehensive tones about the upcoming 
debate on the Helms-Hyde 
bill, which would outlaw 

abortion. This "Human Life" Amendment would, warns the American Civil Liberties Union, "give the unborn more rights than the born" as it would "subordinate women's bodies, health, work and even lives to fetal survival." Time came out and said that such a bill was anti-democratic, since it went against the wishes of the majority ofAmericans. 
But, again, look who is yelling the loudest. The anti­abortion National Right-to-Life group sports 10 million members, and the pro-life Life Amendment Political Ac­tion Committee gave S100,000 to pro-life candidates last year alone. The pro-abortion forces are more poorly organized -being in the majority they probably had a false sense of security -but are growing fast in the · wake ofthe latest onslaught. 
And this week is "Respect Life" week on campus. More yelling. Maybe someone will listen. Or maybe someone will be disgusted into joining up by the bloody propaganda that is being distributed. Meanwhile, democracy will take a back seat. 
The_Ohseryer Design Editor.................. Odrdrt: Murphy Design Assistants........................ Pany Fox Kathy Crol;l;eU T)'fJesetter.................. . ............... Ron joe. .'V<•u•s Editor... ......John Higginli Copv Editors ............................ Pam Degnan Tom :\klstol'imer Features l.ayout .................... Grq~ Swil'n:z Sports Cop)' Editor ............. Dave Ozicdzil.: T)'pist ......................................... Cindy Jones -~vstems Control.. .Bruce Oakky .'VD Day Editor... ...... Megan Boyle S.W'C Day Editor............... :\1ary Kay Hogan Ad Design......................... Woody & jeanne Photographer................... ...... Mike Tuohy (iuest Appearances....... .. . .. Rye Quart! (An item in his own mind) The lovely Christint' hm. a \'aman tlcver .  
The Observer (USPS 598 920) 1s oubl1shed Monday through Fnday except durmg exam and vacat1on periods The Observer 1s published by lhe students of Notre Dame and Samt Marys College Subscnpt1ons may be purchased for $30 per year ($15 per semester) by wn!lng The Ob­server, .p 0 Box Q Noire Dame In· d1ana 46556 The Observer IS a member of the Assoc1ated Press All reproduction nghts are reserved  


The Observer Thursday, Apri19, 1981 -page 3 


General Bradley dies ofstroke 
NEW YORK (AP) -Gen. Omar 
Bradley, who led a million U.S. sol! 
diers in World War II and was the 
nation's last five-star general, died 
yesterday at the age of 88, Pentagon 
officers in Washington said. 
He died at a hospital in New York 
City, the officers said. His last public 
appearance was at President 
Reagan's inauguration. The aging 
general was wheeled onto a stage in 
a wheelchair by actor Jimmy 
Stewart. 
Tall, scholarly, soft-spoken, Brad­
ley was regarded as one of the 
greatest field generals ofWorld War 
II. Known as the "doughboys' general" because he was thrifty with the blood and lives of his men, the master of military tactics was proud ofhis record ofwinning battles with minimum losses. 
He led the U.S. Second Corps to 
victories in Tunisia and Sicily and 
was senior commander ofAmerican 
ground forces in the mid-1944 
Anglo-American invasion ofEurope. 
From leadership of the U.S. First Army, he went to command of the Twelfth Army Group -originally composed of the First, Third and Ninth Armies and later augmented by the Fifteenth -and had an out­standing part in pushing the Ger-, mans back into their homeland. 
His million-man command was the largest in American histo.cy and . included most U.S. troops in Ger­many. 
Bradley died of a stroke at 7:30 
p.m. EST at St. Luke's Roosevelt Hospital Center in New York City, with his wife, Kitty, at his side, said Army Secretary John 0. Marsh Jr. and Army Chief of Staff Gen. E.C. Meyer. 
A hospital spokeswoman said Bradiey was taken to the emergency room at 7:15 p.m. in a private car with his wife and three aides. Spokeswoman Anne Burton said Bradley was "essentially dead on ar­
rival," and Was pronounced dead af­
ter efforts ro revive him failed. 
Although the Army said he died of a 
stroke, she said he died of a heart at­
tack. 
Bradley had remained on active 
and had been in the Army almost 70 
years, more than any other U.S. ser­
viceman, and spent the last 30 years 
as general ofthe Army. 
White House officials said there 
would be no comment until tomor­
row morning. 
Bradley had been confined to a 
wheelchair since suffering a severe 
stroke in 1975. In 1973 he under­
went surgery to prevent a blood clot 
from migrating to his lungs. 
He had lived at Fort Bliss, Texas, since November 1977. 
Bradley knew first-hand about surmounting difficulties. He led the American First Army in the invasion ofthe fortified beaches ofNormandy and he went with the troops. 
''I'll see you on the beaches," he told his men before they set sail from England on a June day in 1944. And they did see this man they called "a GIJoe with three stars on his shoul­ders." He then was a lieutenant general. 
At the end of 1944 the Nazis launched a desperate counterof­fensive and broke through the Allied lines to form a threatening bulge in Belgum. For Bradley's prompt ac­tion in meeting and countering that drive through the Ardennes, he was awarded the Bronze Star. 
The citation, praising his "tactical skill" and "unfaltering determina­tion," said that "he not only made rapid counterattacks to ensure the integrity of key points of his posi­tion, but eventually withstood the furious attacks ofthe main portion of the hostile forces and seriously dis­rupted the hostile plan ofattack." 
Britain's Prime Minister Winston Churchill said the award "seems to embody the feeling we Britons all 

PRE-PREREGISTRATION 
All ND/SMC COTH majors and perspective 
majors 
Room 1 , *Washington Hall April 21 & 22 
(Meet with your advisor first) Advisory counceling Washington Hall April 13, 14, 15 
*Registration will be held for both NO &SMC students only at Washington Hall. 
have about your part in this great 
battle in which United States troops 
have won such high renown." 
A few months later Bradley was 

promoted to full general. 
After his return home, Bradley said he never had any doubt about the outcome When German Field Marshal Karl von Rundstedt opened the offensive, he related, "General (Walter Bedell) Smith said to me, 'Well, Brad, you've been asking for a counterattack. Here it is.' But I didn't want oe that strong."' 
Logan Center volunteers plan picnic 
Logan volunteers: Don't forget there is no Rec this Saturday so you can sleep in and rest up for the pic­nic Sunday 1:00-4:00. Please come -lots of volunteers are needed. 
NlSH volunteers meet at NISH at 

12:30. Everyone else come to Holy Cross(N.D.)bythelakeat 1:00. 
• 

No, this is not an outdoor class; this aspiring forward awaits a pass during fierce Bookstore Basketball action at the Stepan courts. (photo by Mike Tuohy) 

STEPAN CENTER 
Friday April I 0 7:30 pm -Iam/$5.00 includes Judges' Jam 
Saturday April II 12:30 pm -5 pm/$1.50 
6:30 pm -I am/$4.00 
All FESTIVAl PASS /$8.50 NO Stude.nts /$7.50 
JUDGES: 

Richard Dauis 
Mel Lewis 

Dan Morgenstern 

• I 

The Observer Thursday, April9, 1981 -page 4 

The modern dance group "Abiogenesis" performed last night in LaFortune Ballroom to a receptive 
croU'd. (photo b.Y Mike Tuohy) ­
CRASH COURSES 
Study eight weeks and earn a full year of credit in one of these subjects: 
• 
Calculus • Russian e Chemistry e Italian 

• 
Physics • French 

• 
Greek • German e Spanish e Latin 


These intensive-study courses are just a few of the unique learning and relaxation opportunities available on our beautiful lakefront campus. Send for our free course bulletin for details. Classes begin June 22. 
Call Toll-Free, 24-hours: 800-621-1466, ext. 6067 In Illinois, 800-972-1966, ext. 6067 


NORTHWESTERN SUMMER~ 1981_ 
Room 1-117,2003 Sheridan Rd., Evanston, IL 60201 (312) 492-5250 
Academic Excellence in a Most Favorable Climate. 
• • .Fly 

continuedfrom page 1 
collossal expenditures and more in­ternational tension." 
Since 1975, Americans have yielded space travel to the Soviets In the nearly six-year hiatus, 43 cos­monauts have gone up, recently, Young and Crippen said it's time the American political climate favors science again. 
"This country is in need of some· thing to be proud of. We really need some kind ofthing to cling on to and say, ··we in the United States did that,"' said Crippen, a space rookie. 
Before the launch, Young and Cri .ppen were to practice emer­gency landings on the Cape Canaveral airstrip. They'll use that strip only if their engines quit early and they can't get into orbit. 
The flight of the Columbia is scheduled to start at 6:50 a.m. EST friday in the first hour after sunrise. If all goes well, it will end 54 I/2 hours and 36 turns around the earth later with a wheels down landing at Edwards Air Force Base in Califor­nia. 
continuedfrom page I 
Mercedes said that she and her brothers and sisters, ranging down to age 3, lived alone in their parents' house in San Francisco in Chalatenango Province for seven months. 
She said they survived on hand· outs from neighbors until December when they were picked up by two Catholic nuns and brought to the center. 
The two nuns were Ita Ford and Maura Clarke, slain along with an­other nun and a church worker later that month. There is evidence the four, all from the United States, were kiUed by Salvadoran security forces but there have been no arrests. 
The president ofEl Salvador's pro­Children Committee, Roberto Celis, 
said, "Things were not good he the children before the war. Now, many have been terribly traumatized. I fear we are creating another generation where resent· ment, terrorism and aggression will be major characteristics." 
Celis said the 250-member volun­teer organization is trying to make Salvadorans aware of the plight of the nation's young. He also said the committee is working to ease adop­tion laws. 
Sister Clementina Castro, a Cath­olic nun who runs the government's Hogar del Nino (Children's H IN San Salvador, said courts already 
are  more  flexible  in  declaring  
abandoned  children  eligible  for  
adoption.  

"We have 501 children here. Per­haps 100 could be adopted now," said the nun, a member ofthe Sisters ofC t harity. The order runs the home for the government. 
Sister Clementina showed a jour­nalist through the home, pausing to wipe noses, button shins and given one caress after another. 
She was bitten on the finger by a little boy in a wheelchair. The nun said the boy had irreversible brain damage caused by "Grade 3 Mal· imtrition." 
"The situation of the children is worsening," she added. "So many fathers are getting killed." 
Last year, 42 children wre adopted out ofthe center and 20 are to be adopted shortly. She said most 
~----------------­
1 I 
I  I  
I  I  
I  I  
1 I  Corby's  I I  

lis now accepting applications fori 


ATTENTION HALLS, CLUBS S CLASS OFFICERS 
FOOTBALL CONCESSION STAND LOTTERY APPLICATIONS are now available in Student Activities, 1st floor LaFortune. 
••• War 

1 bartenders for the 1981-82 1 President George Bush and told reporters the party plans to go ahead with plans to push for the full three­
1 school year 1
year, 30 percent reduction Reagan proposed.
1 Please apply in person 1 
"At this point, nobody is talking compromise" on a tax cut bill, said Rep. Barber Conable of New York.
~----------------J 
ofthose adopted go to homes in the United States and Europe. 
The nun likes to tell the story ofa couple she identified as Roben and Janice Jump of Manitowoc, Wis., who adopted a child from the home in 1976. 
"In 1979 they came back again and adopted a family of six brothers and sisters," the nun said, showing pictures ofall seven taken is Wiscon· sin. 
The nun paused a little longer with one little boy who seemed par­ticularly anxious to be touched. 
"He won't be with us much lon­ger," the nun said quietly. "He has leukemia." 
Dems protest tax cuts 
WASHINGTON (AP) -House Democrats labeled President Reagan's tax-cut proposals "the fis­cal equivalent of faith in a free lunch"yesterday and said th spend· ing cuts he wants would hurt poor and middle-income Americans. 
Renewing their attack on Reagan's economic program in an unusual eight-page statement of "Democratic economic principles," pany members declared their wil­lingness to back an effort to restrain federal spending, provide tax relief and reduce the size ofgovernment. 
But the statement, approved by voice vote after a closed-door ses­sion of the party caucus, took issue with the specifics of the Reagan ap­proach and said Democrats would reject a program "that puts the main burden of fighting inftation on the backs ofthe middle and low income workers while providing unprece· dented benefits for the privileged fe\\'." 
On taxes, the statement said belief that the administration's three-year tax cut plan will stimulate the economy without fueling inflation "is the fiscal equivalent of faith in a free lunch." 
The statement, akin to a party plat­form at a political convention, ap­peared designed to demonstrate Democratic unity as key votes ap­proach in committee and on the 
House  floor  on  elements  of the  
president's  economic  program.  
Coming  on  the  heels  of  an  al­ 

ternative Democratic budget, it also appeared to be part of a concerted counteroffensive to the administra­tion's program. 
At the White House, the ranking Republican on the tax-writing House Ways and Means Committee emerged from a meeting with Vice 
~********************************* ~SMC and NO Girlsand Guys! ~~***************************~** ! 
~ Get a great style cut ~ ! complete, tor only E 
E $4.75 reg. price sa.so E 
* * ·* * 
~ !PERSONAL TOUCH~ ! * * STUDIO OF ~ * 
~ ! HAIRDESIGN * ~ 
* * * * 
~ ~ 50741 US 31 N ~ pip thl8 ..t for~ ~ ~ 277-0341 ~ ....._, ......~ ~***~******************~********~ 
The Observer Thursday, April9, 1981-page 5 

20,000 soldiers 
More Sovietsenter Mghanistan 
ISLAMABAD, Pakistan (AP) ­
The Kremlin poured 20,000 to 
22,000 soldiers into Afghanistan in 
the past two weeks, pushing Soviet 
troop strength past the I00,000 · 
mark in the face ofrelentless guerril­
la warfare and widespread Afghan 
desertions, a Western diplomatic report said yesterday. 
If confirmed, the deployment would represent the largest move­ment ofSoviet troops into Afghanis­tan since Moscow launched its intervention with 85,000 men in December 1979 to try to put down a Moslem revolt against the com­munist regime in Kabul. 
Another diplomatic report said the troops appeared to be reinforce­ments, and estimated their number at I 0,000. The diplomats, who re­quested anonymity, said the Soviet forces have taken over security duties in Kabul from four Afghan army divisions believed transferred to "hot" insurgency fronts. 
The diplomats, who quoted Af­grtan sources in Kabul, reported that Soviet forces were patrolling the streets of the Afghan capital in light armored vehicles, stopping Afghans to check idemity papers and search­ing houses in the capital, 'now large­ly depleted ofAfghan troops." 
They said the four Afghan army divisions from the Kabul area were sent to support units facing unremit­ting guerrilla attacks in the western province of Herat, bordering Iran, and Kandahar province, on the southern border with Pakistan. 
The diplomats have reported that Afghan army strength has been cut from 90,000 to 35,000 by desertions and casualties, and that Afghan recruiters have resorted to kidnap­ping boys as young as 13 and forcin~ them to fight in Kandahar. But they said the boys soon desert and make their way to Pakidstan. 
The Soviet troop buildup ~oincided with two consecutive weeks of heavy air traffic into Kabul airport and Bagram, a major Soviet air base about 50 miles to the north. Many Soviet transports were spotted, the reports said. 
The latest influx also followed a wave of fresh insurgent fighting which might have been motivated by warmer weather, Afghan resis­tance sources said. Western diplomats said accounts of recent clashes have been received from 20 ofAfghanistan's 29 provinces. 
Soviet air power, particularly helicopter gunships, has proven ef­fective against the insurgents who lacked ground to air missiles until recently. But Soviet ground forces have performed poorly in the Pan­shir Valley north of Kabul and else­where when air support was not available, the diplomats said. 
Afghan Foreign Minister Shah Mohammed Dust, in an interview published last week in India, warned that the Kabul regime might request more Soviet troops be<:ause ofPresi­dent Reagan's statement that American arm aid for Afghan guerril­las might be considered. 
Dust's remark was toned down later by the official Kabul media which quoted him as saying only that "relevant" measures would be taken ifthe United States intervened. The state-run Afghan press refers to the Soviet troops as a "limited con­tingent." 
Europe controls guns more strictly than U.S. 
The assassination attempt against President Reagan has prompted renewed calls for gun control, but a worldwide Associated Press survey indicates no apparent correlation between political killings and the presence or absence of weapons restrictions. 
Countries in which national 
leaders have been attacked in recent 
years have a broad range of restric­
tions on civilian firearms. Some 
impose the death penalty for simple 
possession. Others put few restric­
tions on weapons possession. 

The survey, which covered five continents, also indicates that countries where political assassina­tion is rare almost invariably have strict gun control ,aws. 
Those nations where there have been no political assassination at­tempts against leaders reported in the last decade inc1ude such cul­turally and politically diverse countries as Great Britain, China, the Soviet Union, Portugal, Malaysia, Japan, Kenya, Tanzania, Norway, 
Denmark, Sweden, South Africa, 
Turkey, Singapore, the Netherlands, 
Greece, Switzerland and West Ger­
many. 
Nearly every European nation 
mentioned has strict gun control, 
with the emphasis on handgun 
restrictions. 
*?. f'"*\ . ,. 
l i~. 'l.:,.,.4
·~· ',.,_.Jf f 


ON BECOMING A 
NCtENTIOUS BJECTO 


Dr. john Yoder of Notre Dame bad his speech together, but his spelling wrong atyesterday's lecture "On Becoming a Conscientious Objector.,, (photo by Mike Tuohy) 



Thursday, April9, 1981 -page 6
Editori 
s 
Lottery unacceptable 
When one person threatens another, the response will always take one oftwo forms: the threatened person will either stand his ground and challenge the threat, or he will back down. When Director of Housing Fr. Michael Heppen threatened to have a housing lottery recently, he forced a sufficient number ofcontracted on-campus stu· dents to move off campus. It was the second time in the last three years that· the Administration has been furced to use this tactic, and there are many reasons why this must change very soon. Even though two new dorms have been built, it has now become 
;-apparent that the University will not increase its housing supply to meet its demand. It will instead increase the demand in increments of ; 125 freshmen women over the next four years. In recent years, study 
i · lounges and makeshift dorms were converted into housing, but the 
University has expressed its desire to eliminate these pseudo-dorms. That in itselfwas commendable, but given a choice between this housing and living off campus, students clearly prefer the former. Did we realJy·e"pect that this would matter? 
The t}niversity did not want to force studentsoffcampus, and that is probably why it has decided to use the study lounges of Grace and Flanner. for another year. It is entirely possible that the refusal of housing toa student who has turned in a signed contract would imply some sort ofresponsibility for his off-campus well-being. We all know where the University standson that issue. 
What made this year's threat more unacceptable was that it came so late in theyear. Ifa large number ofstudentswere lotteried otfcampus against their wiD at this time, they would have a very difficult task in linfngup housingfor next semester. AS one letter we received from a concerned junlotpointed out, beingunable tO inform one'sparentsof one' residence plans for next year ""'"" in April -is highly unusual. 
But in the meantime, the University has escaped a lotteryagain, and announced amajorpolicy shift for the future: henceforth, juniors wilt 
P.O. Box Q
be supplied with "space available" contracts. This means that for the first time, the University will no longer guarantee housing to.all the students wh<> want it, even though it hardly encourages smdents to 
prohibit scholarly discourse by move offcampus, except through its restrictive socialatmosphere. Jf Catholic theologians considered in fact aloneryfor juniors wlll be heldevery year beginningnextyea~t ,, .·.· 

Hesburgh asksfor 
as the "loyal opposition"? 

we urge tbat the lottery be hddriolatf!t that1January, so·thatstu~ents •. ' Is our appreciation for the ful­who ate forced offcampus have time fo find a.n adequate substitute. 
lest fruition of Catholic theology

help in hunger drive
There are many questions left unanswered at this point. Will Notre since Pius X suppressed it in 1907 Dame intervene in the oft-campus housing situation? Will ~udy so dim that it fails to counter our 
lounges andothermakeshift rooms continue to be used? WiUthe Uni"c 
DearStudents: those in Somalia, about a million intellectual inertia? versiry ever derive maximum utility from the space it does have 
I un4erstand there will be a hun­and a half of them, many without Do we support the Vatican's (leaving the top tloors of the new dorms unoccupied is plainly 
ger drive for the East African food or drink in the barren desen treatment of Schillebeeckx and ludicrous)? Fr, Heppen•s ofticialresponse has been that a committee 
Refugees during this week. As most land ofthe Horn ofAfrica. Kung, which effectively negates ~tfU be formed in the fall Hto study the various options." The Obseroer 
of you know, there are more Last year, we helped save the the function of theology?has attempted to get further elaboration, but Heppen has. broken all 
refugees in the world today than people ofCambodia. At that time, I If so, do we not realize that sup­. interview appointments: 
there were at the end of World mentioned that this was not our pression of Schillebeeckx and In the comingsemester, wewill watchHeppen's proposedcommit· 
War II. The numbers today total last crisis. Now we have another. I Kung threatens all Catholic tee very closely, and hope that it willtake student input into account. 
•· over 16 million, some two and a hope we can do as well this year as theologians?
We also hope that the committee exercises great discretion in its 
half million of whom have been we did last year. Your generosity is Are we so anti-intellectual as to recommendations and conclusions, for they will have a profound ef· 
created during the past year due to much appreciated. assume that all theologicalfeet on aU future generations ofNotre.Dame students. 
the war in Afghanistan and Et­knowledge resides in one man, or hiopia. Fr. Theodore M. Hesburgh in a group of bureaucrats? In The worst of these refugees are University President short, do we deny the productiveDoonesbury Garry Trudeau tension between office and 
charisma in the Church?

and incidents such as last Mon­
More basically, do we narrowly

Walton relents day's should offend us all as 
identify the Church as its institu­

human beings. It has nothing to 
tional structure, rejecting Vatican

do with personalities. If you 
Il's definition ofit as the people of

on Reagan would like to see more of what God? you call"g/immers ofobjectivity" 
OR IS IT MONEY?

and "humane words about the 
If the traditional honoraria are
DearEditor: President" perhaps you should 

prohibitive, why could not an ad
An assassination attempt against 

write a few articles that would 
hoc consortium of schools have
President Reagan has finally 

present your perceptions of the 
sponsored these men 0 NC E un­
prompted Anthony Walton to ut­

President. 
der Catholic auspices?
ter a few humane words-albeit 
Or are we just afraid of alumni
grudgingly -about the President 
reprisals?
Thank you, Mr. Walton, for a rare 
This past year's timorous omis­
glimmer of objectivity. No doubt, 
sions go far toward explaining the
however, you'll be back fn form 

University avoids 
Catholic Church's theological
this week -diatribe in hand. 
mediocrity today. Next year

controversy 
Hans Kung will be at the Univer­
Marc}. Ha/sema 
sity of Chicago. I wonder whether
Cavanaugh Hall 
during his stay there that any American Catholic institution will

Dear Editor: 
"dare" to sponsor a lecture by

Tony Walton replies: While I American universities com­him.
respect your opinion, I do not ap­mitted to intellectual inquiry 
preciate the implication of in­engaged Father Edward Schil­Eileen M. Donohoe, '69, '78
humanity on my part toward the lebeeckx and Hans Kung to speak South Bend
president. I have been and uHI/ be while they were in the United critical ofthe current administra­States last fall. Why not Notre 
The Observer welcomes letter

tion until I am satisfied u•ith its Dame? 
from its readers. These should b accomplishments, a judgment Is our belief in academic addressed to the Editorial.

that is purely my opinion. If freedom so frail that we fear 
Editor, P.O. Box Q on campus.

Reagan's plans work, I will be providing these men a forum? 
Letters should be typed, double­among the first to congratulate. Specifically, does Notre spaced, and brieffor best chance

Political attitudes, however, have Dame's free speech policy of publication. We reserve thenothing to do with tragedies, or protect Timothy Leary's ad­right to edit. 
the needless waste ofhuman life, vocacy of psychedelic drugs and 
-
Editorial Board and Department Managers 


Editor-in-Chief............................ .......... John McGrath SMC Executive Editor ..................... Mary Agnes Carey
.Wanaging Editor......... ...........................Tom Jackman SMC News Editor ...............................Cathy Domanico
The Observer is an independent newspaper published by rhe srudem-. d! rhe 
Executit•e :Veu•s Editor ........................ Lynne Daley Photo Edttor...................................................John Macor 
University of Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's CoHege. lr does nor nne..,...<.ml~ 
.Veu·s Editor ... ....... . . .. ......Tim Vercdlotti reflect the policies of the admini~uarion of either institution The news 1s reponed :Veu·s Editor.. ............John Higgins Business Manager .......... ......................... Rich Coppola 
as accurately and as objectively as possible. Editorials represent rhe optnton of a .\eniorCop)' Editor .. . .\1ary Fran Callahan Controller.............................. ........................Joe Multlur majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries. opinions, and letter-; are rhe news Sports Editor ..... .. .\1i,:had Onman Adt•ertistng .Wanager....................................Mark EUis Features Editor. ........... Rick Hermida Production Manager ...................Ryan Ver Berkmoes
of their authors. Column space is available to all members of rhe <.ommun11y. and Ctrc·ulation Manager ..... ..................Tom Maclennan
the free expression of varying opinions on ·campus. through letrers, 1s en(()uragc:d. 

The Observer 
Can Detroit car industry reallytnake a cotneback? 
WASHINGTON -I am not as pessimistic about the American 
Art Buchwalil automobile industry as most people. The one thing that makes the U.S. consumer buy something 
Capital Punishment 
is if the product is different from anything his neighbors have. This Burberry, who owned a Volvo 
is particularly true ofcars. 
and a Volkswagen, opened the Americans consider their 
door of the Chevette and looked 
automobiles status symbols; some­
inside. 
thing not only to drive, but to use "Would you like me to take you 
to put down their friends and for a spin in it?" Jeffrey asked. "It's 
relatives. 
amazing what American engineers
For a long time. the foreign car have put in a little car this size." 
has been the ultimate status sym­Jeffrey and Burberry took off,bol for someone living in the while the rest of us stood around 
United States. At first, only a few 
depressed and sick that Doranz people drove them. But in recent had put on over on us. 
years it has become impossible to The wives were particularly
impress anyone with an imported 
furious. One said to her husband, "I 
model, because everyone has one thought you told me the BMW was 
ofhis own. 
the new status car in the country."
But now the pendulum may be 
"It was, for a year. How did Iswinging back, and because they know Americans would start are so rare, an American car is the 
making automobiles again?"
fashionable thing to own. 
"I'm going to top Doranz," El­Just the other day at a party, Jef­liott said. "I hear the Ford Motorfrey Doranz drove up the driveway 
Company has a new car called the
in ·a stange-looking vehicle and Escort. Ifwe move now, I'll be the
honked his hom. 
first one on the block to own one."
We all rushed out ofthe house to My wife asked me, "What do we
look at it. 
do with our Mazda?"
"What is it?" someone asked. 
"We sell it, before Doranz makes·"It's called a Chevette," Jeffrey a fool of us. I saw on television the'said proudly. 
other night that Chrysler is putting:Bob Elliott, who was the first out a Dodge Colt. I'll make en-· one on the block to own a Toyota, quiries. But mum's the word. We' was livid with jealousy. 
don't want anyone in the neighbor-·"Where was it made?" he asked. 
hood to get wind ofit."
"In the United States," Jeffrey Doranz came back with Surber-·said. "It was built in Detroit. I have ry. "Anyone else want a ride?" he'this friend who lives in Grosse 
said pompously.
Point, and he tipped me off. He said We all declined, though theit's going to be the car of the 
curiosity of driving around in an
future." 
American-built car was killing us.
Mrs. Elliott, who owned a Most of us left the party as soon asMercedes-Benz sports car, 
we could because we couldn'twhispered to Bob, "Do you think stand the smug look on Doranz'ir's true?" 
face.
"I don't know," Bob told her. "I 
Who would have dreamed thatheard they were toying with the 
in such a short time the thrill ofidea ofmaking cars in Detroit, but I owning a foreign-made car woulddidn't realize they had gone into be gone?
production." 
LosAngeles Times Syndicate 

WASHINGTON ­
GUN, Smith & Wesson, 44 Mag­
num, excel. cond. !200. 544­
7190. 
So read a tiny ad in the Washing­ton Star two days after the President and three others were shot by a gunman. But it was a phony. If you called the number, you were answered by the Nation­al Coalition to Ban Handguns, the nonprofit organization that works tirelessly against the nation's gun madness. 
"The ad was just another way of harassing us," said Michael Beard, the executive director of the five­year-old coalition. "In the twisted mind of whoever placed the ad, this was designed to get us to waste our time answering all the phone calls." 
A lot of time was wasted, what with SO callers responding to the ad on the day it ran, and I 0 callers by 9:4S the nc::xt morning. The market is hot for .44 Magnums. 
In context, the ad was one ofthe milder forms of abuse directed at the coalition. In Washington, Beard or someone on his staff of seven receives an average of one death threat a week. While appear­ing on a television program in California recently, Beard received three death threats and had to be secreted out ofthe studio to safety. 
Filthier-minded sickos send his organization envelopes stuffed with used toilet paper. The mail also brings bricks, sent first-class but with the postage left off. The intent is to force the coalition to pay the S4 postage due, and thus eat away at its resources. 
When I visited Beard the other morning following the Reagan shooting -which is one of an es­timated 300,000 handgun crimes this year -he said that after five years the hostility ofgun crazies is less and less jarring. He is more un-
Thursday, April9, 1981 -page 7 
Innsbruck program academically troubled 
Editor's Note: "Opinion" is a were poured off of a bus at the to do with Innsbruck. weekly feature oj Tht: Observer summer school in Salzburg. Prof McDonald works at the 
David Mcinerny 
editorial page in which members The "year abroad" had usually program structure, and we work at of the ND-SMC community may been synonymous with "the year the classes. I am not one of the express their views nn a variety of off." And for many years this has greater academic minds at Notre Opinionsubi-~ts. Submission~· should be been true. For 36 students in In­Dame or here in Innsbruck (I am f)' .:d, double-spaced, and sent to nsbruck this year it has been any­still working on the subjunctive take normal classes as well as the the Editorials Editor, P.O. Box Q thing but a year off. It had the case), but some of the classes I ones especially prepared for us. on campus. As alwuvs, rce reserve potential ofbeing that way. No one took this past semester were We have many more opportunities the right to edit. . is sure how it started, but after a insulting. Through the first months to meet Austrian student groups in 
week of classes with our specially we worked on each class to make it town and at the university. As a
I find myself talking more and assigned professors we realized we interesting, at least, and to con­result, the lnnsbruck Program is
more about how great the dining hall food was, and sometimes were re-living the sixth grade all vince the professor that we had moving toward Notre Dame stan­
over again. It seemed that a few of graduated from high school and dards. We all look forward to next
dreams ofthe South Quad drift ino the professors didn't take our could handle university level year's group in helping to push to
my sleep. Room picks still make 
my blood rush, anJ I half-expect classes seriously, and they surely work. Things have already im· make Notre Dame's involvement 
"Bruce" to explodt from hidden didn't expect us to. In one of my proved this semester. We are . here more and more like what is 
speakers when I walk into a bar. I, classes during the first semester reading more books, and a few boasted in the Foreign Studies professors have realized that we
along with 35 sophomores and the professor was extremely program's brochures. juniors, make up the foreign surprised that we even came to can maintain a stimulating con­Almost every day I walk down class. versation . in German. The profes­Salurnerstrasse, which turns into
studies program this year in In· 
Our group has come over with a sors themselves enjoy the classes Maximilianstrasse and eventually
nsbruck. Unless yut..: have a close new director, Prof. John ]. more, because the level of meets Speckbacherstrasse, where I
friend over here, cham:cs are you McDonald, from the English Dept. academics has been raised. Again, live. Almost every day, as I walk
know little or nothing about the 
His mind houses a will like a batter­the last thing I want is to spend the toward my home, my view of this
program or what gvcs on here or at 
ing ram, and he would physically year in front of a desk, but this year changes. My view of In­
any of the other numberous cities program must improve to remain
use it as one if he could. With ex­nsbruck changes, also of the
which contain other Notre Dame 
hausting enthusiasm he has in existence. Our group is sincere­program, of the people I enjoyprograms. 
begged, demanded, and nagged ly working on this. The question living here with, of my family inlast year, as I was preparing to anyone who would listen to him now is whether the students South Bend, or wonderful friends
come over, I spent a lot of my time for help in improving the program. continuing the program and Notre in Alumni Hall, or a girl in West
trying to raise my German grade. I, The program's "office" consists of Dame can maintain the momen­lafayette. I am different now, also.
too, knew practically nothing a desk, some Michelin guides, a few tum. This is not the first time I have
about the upcoming year other 
novels, comic books (!), and some It is not always clear whether studied overseas, but this year has
than if I didn't get the subjunctive 
notebooks which are "the files." Prof. McDonald is leading us or been much more to me in ways
case down quick I '-' ould be a so· There are absolutely no records cheering from behind, but that which are numerous and in ways
cia! outcast in Innsbruck. I was also from before 1975, and from then hasn't been important. We have which I'm just beginning to form­vaguely aware that every year Ken­on two years' records can barely been fortunate enough to be col­ulate. I don't know whether I had
nedy Airport took in a few dozen fill a single notebook. This lective in our efforts to make planned it, but I've accomplished
unwary Notre Dame students and program has existed for 16 years, positive changes here. Together, something this year. We all have.
spat them out about 10 months and there is practically no through desire and effort, we are
later. In all our preparations to get 
DavidMcinerny is a sophomore
now able to enroll in the Univer­to Innsbruck, few of us knew· we evidence that the University of 
business major studying in ln­
Notre Dame has ever had anything sity here as regular students and
were really going to do it until we mbruck. 
L. 
Colm101 Mcem1hy 
settled by the reactions of the sup­posedly rational, people who accepted the assassination attempt as an almost inevitable tragedy: "We are coming close to expecting that our politicians are at the mercy ofhandgun killers." 
Beard, who is 40, was dressed neatly and about to have an orange for lunch, and is refreshing to talk with. Because of some breakthroughs since the lennon killing against the might of the Na­tional Rifle Association and its champions Ike Ronald Reagan, he senses that this lost cause of ban­ning handguns is suddenly being found. "The message is getting across to a large number ofcitizens that the handgun is hidden death. A recent Gallup poll showed that six ouf ot ten teen·agers favor an out­right ban on private poscssion of 
handguns. It was the other way around a few years ago. Teenagers tended to be very pro gun." 
Afew years ago also Beard found himself pursuing candidates to get them to speak out against hand­guns. "Now they are coming to us," he said, "A fellow running for the congressional seat of Gladys Spel­lman in Maryland walked in the other day to rent our membership list for a mailing. Something else that has never happened is that gun-control positions are popping out voluntarily at state and lcKal kvels. In NewJersey, the president of tht· state senate, who is also a candidate for governor, has chosen to make the banning of handguns his campaign issue. Just two years ago, we couldn't have begged politicians to run on this issue." 
Of the  question  now  on  the  
minds  of  many  - will  Ronald  
Reagan's  acceptance  of  private  

ownership of handguns he tem­pered? -Beard believes "that there are bound to be some subtle changes in the President's attitude. I would think that he's in the kind of position -because of being shot -from which he could not make a dramatic switch. It would make him look self-serving. But some subtle changes are possible." 
In his personal life, Beard feels the tensions of an armed America as much as anyone. But he hasn't adopted the Nancy Reagan "little gun" method of home protection which, statistics reveal, provides mostly false se<:urity. Beard says he keeps a pool cue next to his bed:"A police chief told me that would work best against intruders. It's a very effective weapon: It's quiet, you can club with it, jab it, throw it. And it won't go off accidentally, which kills 2,000 ofus every year." 
T/w Wasbington Post Compan}' 

·~·--------------------------------------------~ 

--------------------------------------------~~-------------­
Thursday, April9, 1981 -page 8 
Mark Rust 

eatures 
A 1Crazy' look back at the 160s 
A 
review of Robert Sam Anson, Gone Crazy and Back Again: The rise and Fall ofthe Rolling Stone Generation. 
Besides its psychedelic orange and yellow dustjacket, there are two things about this book that may attract yourat­tention_ 
First, the author is a 1968 Notre Dame graduate and a founder ofThe Observer, as well as a somewhat distin­guished war correspondent (forTime), a former Cambodian POW, television commentaror, freelance writer (primarily forEsquire, a_o; oflate)and writer ofbooks... which brings me to the second item of note. 
This is a well written piece ofbook-length journalism about the "Rolling Stone" generation and the publisher of th't: magazine by that name,Jann Wenner. It came out in hardback this month to favorable reviews. This is another. If you're the type 10 wait for the paperback, keep it in mind. 
Many attempt to capture "what the '60s were all about" hut few succeed. Either the focus of their writing is bent on proving a point, which often confines the truth, or it is bent on a straight cataloguing ofbizarre events, which makes the truth somewhat obscure. This book does neither. 
While it is not strict "literary" journalism, the structure of the book is artistically conceived: it explains the '60s genera­tion by focusing on the editors and publisher ofRolling Stone, a magazine which grew up with the '60s and just as quickly degenerated together wih the decadent spirit ofthe '70s. Thus, the experience ofRolling Stone becomes a metaphor for the experience ofan entire generation. That premise sounds a hit too neat, but it is not bothersome. The We see Dr_ Thompson writing offcocaine for sources on time, amessage of"violence, revolution," to use Mick]ag­metaphor is consistently on display and it is reinforced wih the Oakland Raiders as a business expense, and blasting ger's words. This ambiguity appears throughout the book, to the lyrics ofa number of'60s classics at the beginning of Wenner, point blank, wih a fire extinguisher as the publisher be one]ann Wenner {'Ould neither understand nor come to each chapter, which tic together the themes that run sleeps in his San Francisco home. Hunter turned and fired on grips with. 
throughout. Wenner's French poodle, sending "the helpless beast As presented here by Mr. Anson, Wenner eventually 
Dylan, the Doors, the Stones, jefferson Airplane, The careening across the room." Vintage stuff here. moves away from that ambiguity's confusion into the some­Beatlcs, and CSNY are represented here, and the inclusion of And we also see Wenner allow politics to enter the paper what more conventional realm ofliberal politics and their lyrics reflects both Anson's artistic sensibili~y and his when he realizes that it will be the "rockand roll ofthe '70s" "general enertainment." This move, as Mr. Anson docu­sensitivity to the meaning ofthe music as it applied to the -a realization that is a better commentary on Wenner than ments it, was not without its financial considerations. feelings ofthe time. It is clear that he is a child ofthe '60s. all the anecdotes combined. Much has been written about]ann Wenner, who seemsto 
More importantly, the book is a solid piece ofjournalism. The magazine that once prided iselfon such critics as San show up at all the hip places with all the right people these It is filled with facts about ]ann Wenner, the (in)-famous Francisco's grass-roots Gleason andjon Landau, who broke days, calling everyone who is someone "my very good "hoy" publisher ofRollingStone and man-about-town. His is or launched careers in one sentence: "I have seen the future friend." the story offascination with Rock Music, the"magic that can ofrock and roll and it is Bruce Springs~een" -suddenly It is not altogether clear that Mr. Wenner has many of set you free," as Ralph Gleason described it, and the eventual these.
became a forum for the investigative report (Joe Eszterhas, preoccupation with money and fame that overcame his pas­Timohy Cruse, and contributions from Carl Bernstein, This book seems to profile the publisher with detachment sion for rock. Daniel Schorr and Nicholas Von Hoffman), for big name and objectivity and attention to accuracy. When it expands For anyone who has ever read Rolling Stone wih some writers(Burroughs, Ephron, Wolfe, Kesey, Hellman, Mailer) into an examination ofthe social curn:nts ofthe '60s it consistency throughout its 13 year history, there is plenty of and Washington politics (Dick Goodwin). becomes a bit less restrained, and at times a hit pretentious. behind the scenes reporting on the personalities that As journalism, the booksucceeds by virtue ofthe depth of "The story ofPat~J.' Hearst is the story ofa generation writ became famous bylines and the factors that led to a change in information Mr. Anson has collected, although the sources large" ...ugh. the pattern ofwhat they covered. ofthis information do not always rise to the surface in a All the charactersare here that make a great hook, and like There are some marvelous Hunter S. Thompson visible manner. It captures the spirit ofsuch events as Al­much ofthe '60s, the events are the stuffof novels. But the 
anecdotes -a whole chapterofthem -including glimpses tamont, the "Woodstock ofthe West," as it was billed '60s were real, and Mr. Anson takes us hack to those years ofthe gonzo prince walking around the rural area outside beforehand, and its violent result which cast an ominous that were so important for understanding a baby-boom Saigon during its fall, wearing bermuda shorts and shades shadow on rock and roll. generation now in its thirties and a country now feeling the 
and very, very stoned. Hunter refused to board a helicopter It is particularly good when it examines the ambiguity of effects ofthe pendulum's reversal. 

Lenten reflection: Coming 'round the bend 
B
eginnings arc fun. It's like com­ing to life again. Something insidt· gets turned on. There's a promise ofnewness. Excitement builds. It's fresh. 
I just expt•rienced something like that on t·ampus. It was spread out over a period oftime. The event was imm.cdiatdy after break. For a couplc ofdays you could tell spring was in the air, and it had a "life" ofits own. People wanted to get outside and see one another. Music blared from windows and frisbees filled the air. We were sprung from the heavi­ness ofwimer and the stale air ofthe dorms. Good-bye winter blues. Spring is ht:n:. It was a beginning. 
But then it all changed. The gray t·ame hack. The cold returned. And damn! The beginning ofspring, so alive with energy at the outset, seemed but a joke. It does snow in April. And beginnings give way to· what's in the middle -in this case rain and rt:ality. Storms and such may bring clearing skies and the make it any easier getting rained on. Spring does turn to summer so you just have to keep that in mind when bleakness follows such glorious beginnings. 
That is what Lent has always been like for me. There's a new energy,at the outset. Thebeginning is clear, and the end is not in doubt, but it's the middle that's tough. 
I resolve all kinds ofthings for Lent...l won't do this...I'll give up that. And I really mean it. I am resolved. I even welcome the season; it's a big help. It encourages me to discipline myself, and I need it. But like the rains ofApril clouding up the blue skies ,af March, all my resolutions and promise ofimprove­ment peter out just as quickly. I find myself after such a determined beginning left with a flimsy interior. I feel pretty weak, and, in fact, guilty as hell. After a great start such an abrupt end tends to kill the spirit. My enthusiasm at the beginning reminds me so often of the apostles' 
star: "Hang on, lord, we're gonna fight for you!" Look, Lord, this joe is going to improv<::. He will keepyou in mind. He will spend more timein prayer. He knows how much he needs you. It gets clearer the older he gets. 
But so does my weakness. You see, I'm not too regular, to say the Iea-,t. Highly resolved? Yes. Sincere? Surely. Short on consistency? You betcha. Real short. But it's about time that that knowledge made a dif­ference in my life, or Lent will remain an exercise in futility. I feel so cheap. Easter approaches and I'm no better than when I started. Ifthis is humanity. it's hard to take. 
Thinking deeper, though, perhaps the broken resolutions are not the issue. Perhaps Lent is there to chal­lenge what we do "after the fall," af­ter we fail, after we break our resolve. 
Perhaps a clearer understanding ofthe honest-to-God reality ofthe inevitable Easter will clear away the Lent, after all, is not a season used to earn Easter. Easter ana sunshine are pure gratuity. And come to think of 
it, those beginnings are too. /Easter, so determinedly on its way, 
will come and offer me its love as surely as night follows day. And the lord will be there offering me an embrace and the warmth of his love whether Ikeep those lousy promises or not. It's the guilt, then, that's the demon. It's what Ido to myselfafter I fail. That's where there's a change in attitude due. 
I know enough ofwhat is ex­pected of me, and I'm painfully aware of my failures at selfimprove­ment, but the trick is to get through April, to get THROUGH my failure so I can get to others. lent comes every year so Tcan understand my OWN humanity. Then I can under· stand others. 
Lent properly lived introduces me to myself. And more than that it shows me the whole ofChrist. He loved me before these fony days, end. I guess the point is doI love myselfmore be<·au~e Lent has taught me more ofhis love. Do I love others more because ofhis love? 
The end ofLentis God on the cross released from the nails so he can embrace us again. My evaluation ofmy own worthin<::ss is beside the 
point. My broken resolutions, after such determined beginning, may be even more beside the point. 
He takes all ofus and identifies himself with what we resent in our­selves -those facts ofour lives we dislke, that which embarrasses us, 
what we'd rather forget. Nothing that is us is left out. So if I accept the beginning and the end, I had better accept the weakness in the middle too. 
And so for us all. Ifwe bask in the sun's rays of March and receive the flowers ofMay, we had better accept the rains ofApril too. On all that is us, and April as well, the sun still 

green ofsummer, hut that doesn't zealous line in Jesus Christ Super-self pity ofmy broken promises. and he'll love me just as much at the shines. 
Br. Joe McTaggart 
r 
r
' 
f 

-------------~--­
Thursday, April9, 1981 -page 9 

eatures 
Zabelka changeS view on atomic warfare 
.'}c.;,:c;,,,,,,,?::,<) 
. n Sunday, August 5, 1945, Father George tlefield. most people's: 'it's terrible, but, too bad--it's Zabelka said Mass, gave communion and 
At the seminary, the priests reinforced the necessary.'" blessedthe Catholic members ofthe 509th 
concept that some wars were justified and no When the news was announced on August 9 composite group of the Army air force on that Nagasaki had been bombed, Zabelka's
mention of non-violence or pacifism occurred Tinian Island in the South Pacific. in his training for the priesthood. first thought was, "Nagasaki--that's a Catholic The next day those men dropped an atomic city.!" That bomb was dropped by Major
After his ordination in 1941, Zabelka spentbomb on Hiroshima, killing over 80,000 three years at Sacred Heart Church in Flint, Charles Sweeney, also Catholic, and a friend of people and injuring thousands more. Three Zabelka's.
Michigan. But the war was on and he "eager to days later, they dropped a second bomb on be out there serving my country and my God." "Again, although I thought it was a sad thing Nagasaki, this time killing over 40,000 people. to happen, I fully supported the action."
"I wanted to be the spiritual leader of those Fr. Zabelka supported the bombings as brave young men fighting for what was Two weeks after the bombings, Fr. Zabelka necessary to end the war. He saw no incosis­flew over Hiroshima. He was shocked to see
'morally right,'" he reflected. He joined up tency with the fact that he was a Catholic and was made a captian in the Army Chaplain that the city was still smoldering. Within two priest who tolerated the death ofcivilians. months he was sent to Nagasaki and worked
Corps. In his sermons he encouraged the sol­Today, 35 years after the atomic destruc­diers to fight hard, beat the enemy, and win with the Catholic nuns there caring for the or­tion ofthese two cities, Fr. Zabelka thinks dif­the war. phans. ferently -quite differently. He has He also counseled a number ofpilots who In 1946, he w~s discharged from the Army committed himself to spend his final years and came back to Flint. The next 20 years, he
were dropping fire bombs on Tokyo, an action spreading the teachings ofpacifism, teachings says, became a long, slow process toward
that destroyed much of the city and killed that he says are simply those ofthe New Testa­close to 100,000 people. realizing that all he had believed and all he had ment. done was completely wrong.
"Onepilot who came to me was very shook 
Father George Zabelka as
Now a retired priest for the diocese ofLan­Fr. Zabelka now believes that the atomic
up,'' Zabelka said. "He talked about how, in 
chaplain in World War ll
siog, Michigan, Zabelka spends much ofhis 
flying low over the city, he looked down and bombings of Hiroshima and Nagasaki were im­time conducting workshops on non-violence. saw a small child staring directly at him. With­moral and unnecessary. He says that no action 
On Palm Sunday the Church
This Sunday night, April 12, he will be at Notre like that can ever be condoned again. He
in seconds the child was engulfed in flames." 
meditates upon Christ the King's tri­Dame to address the South Bend-Notre Dame 
Throughout the summeroft 1945, Zabelka, argues for immediate disarmament and a 
umphal entry into Jerusalem. It is fitting that
community in the Memorial Library stationed on Tinian Island with a special freeze on the production of nuclear bombs. 
Fr. Zabelka should he here at Notre Dame on
Auditorium at 8 p.m. squadron of300 men, knew ofa special "The only thing that bothers me,'' Zabelka 
this occasion to testify to his pledge ofal­Zabelka grew up in what he calls "a typical­weapon on the island but was unsure ofits use said, "is why did it have to take me 20 or 30 legiance to Christ the King and His Gospel of
ly Catholic, typically patriotic home," and and capabilities. years to come to this conclusion? I was so non-violence.
raised to think ofthe military with the highest "August 6 was like any other day on the is­blinded, so caught up with all ofthis respect. At school and in church he learned land," Zabelka recalls. "We didn't know what patriotism that I wasn't even listening to what that war was often necessary and that it was an I was preaching--the Gospel oflove, peace and
had happened until it came over the honor to serve one's country on the bat-
loudspeakers. My first reaction was typical of non-violence." Michael Moore 
A bizarre comedy in tNotes from the Nile' 
B
izarre is a word often used in conjunction with bad in a theatrical production, but inNotesfrom theNile, such is not the case.'The amusing comedy, writen and directed by Adriani Trigiani, is quite spirited and quite unpredictable. 
Set in the autumn of 30 B.C. in Egypt, the play seems to have drawn much of its material from Shakespeare'sAntony and Cleopatra. Yet, in Trigiani's version, the characters are given another chance to tell their story to history. Notes from the Nile starts with a basic plot from Shakespeare's play, but the characters have adopted comic, not tragic roles. From this new perspective, the Antony and Cleopatra story is given new life, new meaning, and a happier ending. 
As the production begins, Cleopatra, played by Kathleen Maccio, finds herselfin an uncomfortable position: queen of Egypt. Without the adminstrative support ofGeorge, the im­peccable keeper of the castle OeffSanticola) and the emo­tional support ofher best friends Charmin (Anne Slowly) and Iris {Angela Wing), Cleopatra would not know how to handle her duties. 
Heronly solace in her regimented, boring life is the love of Antony of Rome. Enter Antony, played by Gregory D'Aiessandro, one ofthe most powerful men in Rome since the death ofJulius Caesar. But wait, \\'C are told that Julius Caesar was not murdered on the Ides ofMarch; rather, it was his cousin Murray who got the knife. 
Bizarre? Absolutely!. But the plot thickens. EnterJulius Caesar()ay Dunlap), a former lover ofCleopatra. He has come to Egypt to marry Cleopatra and then return to his throne over the Roman Empire. What could happen next? Well, ofcourse, Antony and Julius go to war over Cleopatra. This could be simple, but no; the war, as declared by Cleopatra, must be fought with candy kisses and cotton balls. One ofthe most notable performances was given by entertainment value, which is quite high. A second meth()(J, 
What next? Babs Brisbain (Anne Patterson), Cleopatra's Gregory D'Alessandro in his role as Antony. His whole one f~r theatre buffs, is to thoroughly examine the play. its gallivanting, vivacious, and highly attractive mother enters demeanor, in both verhal and physical expression, made his plot, its parodies, and its parallels not only toShakespeare's the picture. Then the obvious occurs andJulius Caesar loses role one ofthe most comic ofthe play as he bumbled and ANTONY AND CLEOPATRA, but other theatrical events as interest in Cleopatra and proposes to her mother. This ends tumbled his way down the pathway oflove. Kathleen Maccio well. This senmd approach will not prove fruitless. the war with no winners and no losers. Antony, the true in the leading role ofCleopatra was able to portray vividly Throughout the play, the stereotypes ofmen and women are lover ofCleopatra, should finally have his love fufilled, and the comically distressing life ofthe queen caught in the examined and playfully ridiculed. The probkms surround­they all live happily ever after. Right? Guess again. When An­middle of this bizarre set ofcircumstances. ing such stereotypes are comically displayed throughout the tony hears the decree from Julius Caesar and Cleopatra that In his role as Julius Caesar, Jay Dunlap was able to adeptly play, and from these parodies much insight waits to be the war has ended, he wrongly assumes that they are togeth-portray the great conqueror of the world as nothing more drawn. Cleopatra probably best summed up everything er again, and he is left out in the cold. than a twelve-year old in a man's body. Of the minor roles, when she said: 
Feeling his love betrayed, Antony relays his feelings to Rusty, played by Chris Groll, deserves special merit. They (men and women) all fall in the same old Cleopatra through his trusted French friend Rusty (Chris Stereotyped as the perfect ladies' man, French accent and all, crud ofhow men arc to be men and women are GroHs) and returns to Rome. Needless to say, Cleopatra is Groll was outstanding in his performance and well received to be women ... It could all be changed if we heartbroken, right? Right, some things are predictable. What by the audience. were just honest with each other. happens next is anybody's guess. One can only appreciate Possibly the most striking aspect of the whole perfor­the end in person. mance is the stage scenery. Built by Bruce Wolfe, Egyptian The play is certainly worthy ofspending a night this 
weekend to sec it. It might not be a bad idea to brush up on
The play is absolutely bizarre, and thoroughly enjoyable. columns complete with hand-drawn hieroglyphics sur­Much credit must be given to all the actors and actresses, as rounded the stage, and lend some credibility to the play's un­Shakespeare'sAntony and Cleopatra before the play in or­Friday night's performance was the first everfor this produc­usual atmosphere. der to get a better understanding of it. But any way one tion. The casting ofthe play seems to be perfect, as all ap­There are two levels ofappreciation for this theatrical wishes to view tht> play,Notesfrom the Nile is joyfully peared to be comfortable in theirs roles. event. One is simply to view the the play for its superficial bizarre and comically refeshing. 
John Macor 

:~ 

..-~-~---~-------~-~--------------~ 
~The .Observer 
Catnpus· 
• 
I 1-2 p.m. -senior trip sign­up: Ia fortune. 

• 
II-I p.m. & 8-9 p.m. -senior trip sign-up: Ieman lobby, smc. 

•11:30-3 
p.m. -one earth week: Ia fortune. 

•12: 
I 5 p.m. lenten mass: fr. grif­fin, Ia fortune rathskellar. 

•4 
p.m. -rad lab seminar: "role ofag-plus I as a catalyst in certain redox reactons," dr. a. kumar, n.d., conference room, rad lab. 

•4:~0 
p.m. seminar: "hormones and the insect epidermis," dr. lynn riddiford, 

•7,9, 
I I p.m. -"goodbye girl," engineering auditorium, S 1 ad­mission. 

•7 
p.m. -films: "our children's {.'hildren," & "the.· unwanted," sponsored by mecha, room I I 7, haggar hall. 

•7 
p.m. -"buddhism in japan," cce, ets room, sponsored by the japan club. 

•7:30 
p.m -lecture: "mercy killing: new trends in euthana­sia," pat trueman, amers. united for life, memorial library auditorium, sponsored by respect for life week. 

•7:30 
p.m. -film: "violeue," annenberg auditorium, sponsored by the department ofcommunication & theatre. 

•8 
p.m. -lecture: "symbolic st:lf-compktion and psycholo­gy of confession, dr. robert wicklund, university of texas, room I 22, haggar hall, sponsored by the psyt·hology club. 

•H 
p.m. ·-play: "notes from the nik," washington hall. 


u.  of  michigan,  l 0 l  galvin,  
sponsored  by  the  biology  
department.  

AFROTC awards 7 scholarships 
Seven cadets enrolled in Notre Dame's Air Force ROTC program recc.·ntly were: awarded Air Force scholarships whil'h will cover the cost of their tuition. books and fees. Notre Dame freshmen Joe: :\kGrath, Stt·vc Machalski and Mike ()'Bryan each rcn:ived ~ I/2 year st·holar-~ ships, as did Nancy Nungl'sser from Saint Mary's. 
Two-and-a-half year AFROTC st·holarships were also won by :"lotrc.· Dame sophomores joe Boyle and Geoff Harris. 
Thursday, April9, 1981 -page 10 
Molarity Michael Molinelli 

ACROSS 25 Hunted 45 Scarves 18 -Creed 1 Immuniza­cetaceans 46 Toper 19 Crony
The Daily Crossword 
tion fluids 29 Land 47-as an 24 Ponder 5 Medieval measures Eskimo's 25 Pen estate 30 Relative nose 26 Links 9 Units of 33 French 50 Pinnacle fixtures 
resistance sculptor 51 Weapon for 27 Entrances 
13 Egg cell 34 Soon Hood or 28 Prefer 
14 Unit of 35 Exhaust by Tell 29 Positive 
loudness overwork 54 Inventor of pole 
15 Lariat 36 Observation vulcanizing 30 Old Nick 
17 Mythical bySamuel 57 Lena 31 That is 
English Johnson 58 Sea bird 32 Wheeler 
sprite 39 Mal de-59-boy! and Lahr 
20 Links must 40 Melville's 60 Lawn pest 34 Feverish 
21 NY college Billy-61 Millay paroxysms 
22 Wickerwork 41 Nautical 62 Stinger 35 Coffee 

material command 37 Excoriate 23 Iowa 42 Curve DOWN 38 Ceased college 43 Corner 1 Weedout 43 Pealed 24 Offers 44 Factories 2 Bacchanal's 44 City in cry California Yesterday's Puzzle Solved: 3 Hick 45 Carried 4 Pierre's 46 Disdain friend 47 German 
5 Onetime exclamation actor 48 Revue Perkins 49 Overseas 
6 Lorna-aid agcy. 7 Wildox 50 Old 8 Was ahead 51 Greek 9 Hill nymphs letter 
10 Sword 52 Horse meal handles 53 Prepare 
11 Beer a gift 
ingredient 55 Sault­
12 Portico Marie 
16 Barley 56 Turn off 

All Rights Reserved 
beard course 

Chicago area criesfor help 
Pk:..se Hdp' ln the heart ot Chicago thl're are 29,000 people within a four mile stn:tch living in the poorest conditions in a 28 build­ing housing dcvc:lopmc.·nt called the Robat Taylor Homes. Most of the 2~.000 t'hildren do not go to school. It is not unusual for 1.3 or I4 year old girls to have babies. The buildings are infested with rats and mice, elevators usually don't work and are unsafe when they do; stairways are filthy and unsafe; crime and suicide and child abuse are common. Few of the horror stories are e\·er reported. The people need help. Please care enough to do something. Anyone in­terested in organizing. carrying out or contributing in any war to a drive for money, food, old clothing or books, please call Sheila Shunick at -!628 now. 

Tt:IURSDAY NIGHT FilM SERIES h. 
Violette Dir. by Claude Chab~i(France) 1978 .._.. Continuing his meticulous double study of bourgeoisie stupidity and of the parameters of the detective genre, Chabrol here turns to an actual case history of a young woman with a double life who poisons her parents. As Chabrol turns his ascetic eye on the character of Violette Noziere (beautifully played by Isabelle Huppert), we see a whole other dimension to the affair. 
THE SNITE MUSEUM OF ART 
7:30 pm admission $1.00 sponsored by the ND-SMC 
~~OMMUNICATION &THEATRte~~ 
Fluid F1Ul Canoe Rental S 12.00 per conoe includes transpo to starting poi.Dts 
Bristol In. ou St. Joseph River 
(219)848-4279 phone for resenalions 
-
The Observer Thursday, April 9, 1981 -page 11 
• • . Moeller 
continuedfrom page 16 
"You never get tired of talking 
about anything you're proud of," he 
says with emphasis. "Yea, it can get a 
little tedious, answering the same 
questions over and over, but I'm 
proud ofMoeller." 
So one might expect the team's 
six Moeller grads to be a little family 
-a clique ofguys that gets together 
after practice for a reminiscent Hail 
Mary. Perhaps surprisingly, that just 
isn't the case. One big reason is the 
fact that two of them graduated in 
1977, two more in '78, one in '79 
and another in '80. 
"Bob and I only played four games 
together in high school," recalls 
Crable's fellow-linebacker Rick 
Naylor. "Sure, we're friends, but 
we've never had much ofa chance to 
become really close friends. I'd say 
we get along as well, if not better, 
than most people on the team." 
"It's the same as if we were all 
guys who lived in Cincinnati and 
wound up in the same college," adds 
Crable. "No cliques. Nothing 
unique. Just friends." 
IRISH ITEMS -The Irish players and coaches as well as the few spec­tators in attendance yesterday on Cartier were relieved the an­ticipated rains stayed away. _. The student managers have a new task; two ofthem hold a piece ofstring to form a "harrier" that the players not participating in a particular drill must stay behind. It seems the players previously were obstucting the view of the camera men high above the practice field. 
From our "For What It's Worth" Department -a revised depth chart was released yesterday before practice. The coaches insist that such a list doesn't really mean a whole heck of a lot, and that things are certain to change, but here it is 
anyway: 
Defense: Autry, Marshall, Gramke and Kramer on the line; Rudzinski, Naylor and Crable in the linebacker slots and Bone, Duerson, Krimm and Toran in the secondary. Zavagnin is penciled in behind Crable in the middle and Cichy, a transplanted safety, behind Rud­zinski on the strong side. 
Offense: The front line from left­to-right -Shiner, Ellis, Fisher, Thayer and Pozderac with Masztak at tight end. Boushka's at split end with Condeni right behind him. Remember, Hunter's siuing out the 
-

spring nursing his sore ankle. As ex­pected, Carter fills the tailback slot and Sweeney's at fullback (Buchanan, who played fullback last year, is right behind· Masztak at tight end). Tripp is listed as the current wing back and Kiel maintains his hold on the quarterback job. Koegel is listed as number two. 
Gerry Faust still has some things to learn. He found out just yesterday that only five can play in any one Bookstore Basketball game. He was of the mistaken impression that you were allowed one substitution during the course ofa game and was perhaps counting on that sub to relieve his gimpy knee. A week-and­a-half ago he was informed for the first time that the games were not half-court affairs. 
Rumor has it that "The New Kids on the Block," may have to call on one of the "Old Kids on the Block," Brian Boulac, if the team should make it past their Sunday evening 
(6:45 p.m.) debut behind the bookstore. One of the "New Kids" apparently has an unexpected engagement. 
• Sportsboard 
continuedfrom page 15 

Stepan 5 No Games Scheduled Stepan& No Games Scheduled Stepan7 No Games Scheduled Stepan& No Games Scheduled 
Book.toreSl Return of the Nutmeggers over S.T. Judy & the High-Powered Hoopsers by t 1 
Peter & the Penetrators over Ru. Kirby & AII·Star Maggots by6 
S. Judy & the Homefries over Roger Daltry & the Footprints by 2 Mull Divers and the Beavers over Ora14 by 12 
Bookstore 1 0 Logan Leapers over Nancy's Little Gun by 15 The Afterbirths over Esophagus Constrictors by 12 
The '69 Mets. etc. over Rosie& the Knights 19 The Open Facers over George Rock & Roll' Berry & the 5 Variations by 4 
Lyons11 Humor at the Expense of Others over Dick Addis & the Weather Words by 11 Spoofhounds over Tim McHenry & 4 Guys by 10 LUDUS OverS. Judy and the 4 Missmg Strohs. 27­
25(0T) Captain Muff & the Seamen over Emperor Flatus Maximus & the Fall of the Roemer Empire by 7 
lyons12 Net Prophet over High Numbers by 13 Worst Team 1n the Tournament over Son of Tip 
and hrs Pips by 8 
Col. Lingus and the Privates over Dink & the D ... s by7 The Squidleys over Yes Nukes II·Here We Glow 
Agam by 7 
Today'aGemn 

Stepan 1 4:00-Rams v. Iron City Athletic Club 4:45-Atlanta Youth Foundation v. Claude Balls & the 4 Skins 5:30-That's Right. Wez Baaad v. Wiggly Worms 6:15-The Offenders v. 4Jokes & the Jock 
Stepan 2 4:00-We May Be Small. But We Play like Joe Klein v Big Organ... 4:45-Pete Beak' Boesen for UMOC v. Fighting Monvirconnji's 5:30-The Celrbates v. Vanilla Blunders 
6:15 -R. Pryor & the Have a Coke Freebase Players v. The Dirty Harry's 
Stepan3 4 00-Dribbling Drxz v. Pooch. Gnooch & his .. 4:45-Crush. Kill. Destroy v. Fli!lhl 
After)'OUr lastexam, whattoughquestions will you stillbe facing? 

W don't have your answers. But we'll listen to your questions, 
share some of our own about who we want to become and where we want to journey. For anyone who has considered the path of priesthood, the Holy Cross Fathers' One· Year Candidate Program provides an opportunity to ask and explore the possibilities in community. 
Cont!lct: 
Rev. Andre Leveille. C.S.C. Voc~tion Director 
Bo. 541 
Notre D<lme. IN 46556j 
(219) 283·6385 
L_~ 
5:30-Altered Holvars & the Addrs Kids v. S. Judy. DanSrlls&... 6:15-Rita Jenrette & the Scandal Quartette v. Puberty & the Newcomers 
Stepan4 4:00-Dorothy Straiten & the ln-Your·Face Kids v. Rapture & Some Rebounds 4:45-The Inter-Ferons v. GOB 5:30-Penetrators v. tst Round Losers 
6:15 -Archard Head & the Bearded Clams v. 
Sweat Glands Stepan5 
4:00 :._ TPquila White Lighting v. Incredible Non­Commital Men 
4:45 -2 Throats. 2 Druggies & an Alcoholic v. Back to Reality 5:30-The Hand (4 Frngers & a Thumb) v. Keon·s Boundry Spanners 6:15-Fat Chances v. Frank laGrotta & 4 Other Wimps 
Stepan& 6:15-East-Coasters v. Joe Ketchup & the Maxi­Pads Only Game Scheduled 
Stepan7 No Games Sch&dules Stepan& No Games Scheduled 
Bookstore9 4:00-Holy Cross Wildcats v. Doug Walsh & the High Rates 
4:45 -In Memory of Brg Dogs v. Manager's Choice & the Cowboy Cookies 5:30-Rockets in ourPocketsv. KuntaKinte& the Kabewak Kids 6:15-Tricker& 4 Doobers v. Sid & the Seamen 
Bookstore 10 

4:00 -The Underdogs v. Hammer Head & the Sharks 
4:45 -Atomic Drops v. 5 Guys Who Came Be­tween Brook Shields & Her Calvin Kleins 
5:30 -Doctors of Brick v. Stale Steve & the 4 locks 
6:15 -J. Klein & the Forced Entriesv. Quasi-Moto 
& the Belle-Bangers lyons11 
4:00 -Good Ole Boys v. Herkimer & the Schwantes 4:45-Skywalkers v. Uncle John's Band 5:30-Knights of Roundball v. Fr. Riehle's Cheep Cigars 6:15-Sadrsfaction v. Legalized Abortion & the Coathanger Kids 
lyons12 

4:00 -4 Cool Guys & Grant v. Mousey's Full House 4:45-Benny the Beavers ... v. Cosmo Carbones 5:30-S Judy'sGuide to a Quality Buzz v. Atlanta Joe... 6:15-Jim Pink & the Blues v. Bookstore Bongs 
Wednesday's Results  
NO 12, Michigan State 4  
Notre Dame  3  5  4  0  12  
Michigan State  0  0  0  4  4  

S1JlVIMIIl S'fOBAGIJ SPACJI 
Special discount for RDISMO students Securit;y Patrol Chec~ 
2&9-0885 
SBLI' LOOK STOBAGI 01' MOKIRLIIY dl8 But_ McKinley Mishawaka 
,,,,,,,,,,,,, 
COPP MUSIC CENTER INC 
430 N. Main So. Bend 233-1838 Take 31 South, turn right one block past Memorial Hospital 
eGuitars  •Harmonicas eMetronomes  
I  
eBanjos  eAccessories elessons  

eRecordersesheet musiceRepairs 
10% off anything with this 
, , , 
ad•••no 1m1t • ' 

CELEBRATE SPRING AT.BRIDGETS 
ISN DU~ ~ 
_United Limo, Inc. Travel United Limo To/From Chicago O'Hare Airport 
One Wa~· Fare ..... $22.00 
Deliver to your airline at O'Hare Airport 
Round Trip...•...... $39.00 
O'Hare pick-up at Lower Level Carson Restaurant Save over SU, on Round Trip To and From O'Hare 
New Schedule: NOW LEAVING NO BUS SHELTER 6 TIMES A DAY 
--O'IIARF PICK-liP-----... 

l//o11 Ill/(' hu111 {111111 11/i/ Wl'llllf lillie' !11/llllc "' 1/J:·I~ 
t•t~·••'l' mal.l· fl'\l'natiun' !~ huur' in arh.tnn 
*( all for fl'\l·nation' fur 
\ ,1., ahem! \J)l'l·ialrharll'f r;lh'' Pki..·UP alllolida\ Inn_~ lt.harl Pit:J...up atllulida\ Inn_ \1khii!Jn (it\

Call United Limo, Inc. (219)255-3068 
OFFICE,

PICK· U P BiHersweet 8c McKinley, Big Bear Restaurant, Town & Country Center,POINTS: 'Notre Dame Bus Shelter, Michiana Regional Airport 
...___ 
---~·-----. ~-----------~----------­
The Observer Thursday, April 9, 1981 -page 12 
• • .Joyce 

important, but never at the expense
continuedfrom page 16 
ofthe University's principles. 
throughout the nation. 

"Wc tell all ofour coaches that we 
"I think that honesty may in part 
want as fine a team as we can get 
be due to the fact that responsiblity honestly," he emphasizes. "No 
for the athletic program is placed 
coach is put on a five or 10-year 
directly in the hands of a high uni­
program as a time limit for-winning a 
versity official," he says. "In my case, 
national championship. National 
I am close to the president, as well as championships '\re nice.. .I like it 
in a good position to tonstantly look when they happen. But they are not 
over the shoulders of the athletic 
our first order of business. 
director and his staff." 

"Our basketball coach, Digger But I really don't get into the Phelps, has not won a national title minutiae of day-to-day operative in the ten years he's been here, but 
decisions," he continues. "Basically 
his job is not in any way in danger 
because I don't believe I have to. We because he's given us an exciting 
believe we have a very good staff in program with athletes that are a con­
the athletic department headed by a stant source ofpride to Notre Dame. 
very fine man in Gene Corrigan. I "It's when a school falls into the 
, suppose I am involved in making 'win-at-any-cost' attitude that general policies; a moral leader of problems start to occur." 
sorts. I constantly remind people 
Joyce goes so far as to say that a 
that integrity is our top priority won-loss record is almost incidental 
here, and I do it personally, not when it comes to evaluating a Notre 

Fr. Edmund P.]oyce through an intermediary." 
Dame football coach. In fact, he first 
To Joyce, winning and losing is became interested in Ara Parseghian when the latter, as a young head coach at Northwestern, lost nine consecutive games. What impressed Joyce about Parseghian was not only 
-·r··GOOD TIME PIZZA"T'll 
I 826 PORTAGE AVE II Lectures, films enhance 
the close scores, but also the un­believable team morale maintained
ldelivery available II Respect Life Week 
in the face ofsuch adversity. "We would never make the deci­sion to release a football coach sole­
j1 days a week l3l-1883tt 
Respect Life Week continues tor and general counsel of 
ly on the basis of his record," he
••••••••••••••••--•••-•••-••••••••••••••*' h gh S d A 'l 11 'th Americans United for life, will dis­
1 i t rou atur ay, pn , w1 insists. "We would first examine the cuss "Mercy Killing: New Trends in
I Free del·tvery on any p·lzza I talks, films a_nd lectures sched~led situation and sec if there was any­
~ I for the remamder of the week. fhe Euthanasia," tomorrow evening at 
thing we could do to improve it. On­
7:30p.m. in the Library Auditorium.
I w·lth th.IS coupon or any ; activiti_es are SJ_:><msorc~ by_ the NO­
ly ifwe felt that the won-loss record
I 1 SMC Right to Llfe orgamzat10n. A series offilms, includingAssign­
reflected a flaw in the coach himself
ment Life and Whatever Happened
I sandwich del·tvered $., 25 I 
Notre Dame law professors Ed-
would we consider making a
• ;,• 1 ward Gaffney, Edward Murphy, to the Human Race? will be shown 
change."

during the week, followed by panel
Is h T h 
I Kenneth Ripple and Eric Smithburn 
Across the hall, Hesburgh echoesdiscussions.
I u n. t ru urs -4pm -IIpmC program "Capital
will present the those sentiments.

The week will conclude with an
1 I Punishment: Death in a Democratic
F • d s 

"When a new coach comes inecumenical prayer breakfast and
: fl an at . 4pm -lam I Society,"thiseveningat7:30p.m.in 
here I tell him that if he preserves
I I the Library Auditorium. picnic, to be held at the Bethel Col­our integrity, I will preserve his 
-Patnck Trueman, executive d1rec-lege Campus Center and the Notre
~--------------------------------------~ 
. . . . .· 
Gentlemen, The FRANCISCAN FRIARS invite you to a LIVE -IN EXPERIENCE with them during the month of April. 

Come join us for a weekend, or make arrangements for a few days during the week. 
For your reservation or for further information contadt 
Friar Richard or Friar William St. Anthony Novitiate 1316 W. Dragoon Trail Mishawaka, IN 46544 
(219) 255-2442 




A NOTRE DAME SAINT MARY'S THEATRE PRESENTATION WASHINGTON HALL, APRIL 3, 4, 9,10 A 11, AT 8:00PM 4DMISSION IS S3; NO, SMC STUDENTS, FACULTY & STAFF 
\ 

\ "AY $2. 50. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION PHONE 284-4176 
security.

Dame campus on Saturday, April 11 "Ifhe doesn't, it's over in a hurry."
Jeff Steinberg, a handicapped singet· ofnational renown, will be featured. · 
Tomorrow: Part three . 
• • • Women 

continuedfrompage 13 
given to Rich Hunter and Craig Chval. Hunter, who serves as the Irish soccer coach, has offered a helping hand to the womens' programs as an official, score keeper and dedicated advisor for several years. Chval has worked as a sports information student assistant in charge of women's tennis and women's basketball for the past two years. 
"The Varsity Crowd" also was recognized for it moral support of the women's basketball program. ' 
Field hockey coach Jan Galen prcsennted her team's "Nappy' Coaches Award" (in honor of Direc­tor Emeritus of Non-Varsity Ath· letics Dominick J. 'Nappy' Napolitano) to Diane Cherney. 
Coach Sandy Vanslager ofthe first­year-varsity volleyball team 
presented junior Jan Yurgcalitis with. her team's Most Improved Award while sophomore Jackie Pagley received the Offense­Defense Award. 
Vanslager also announced that she had signed two scholarship recruits to letters of intent yesterday after­noon. The pair of high school stan­douts should help the Irish improve on this season's 2-13 record. 
Coordinator of Women's Ath­letics, Astrid Hotvedt, said last night that at least one and possibly two more women's programs would be added to the varsity ranks next year. Speculation is that the definite is swimming and the possible addition is track. 


Meeting for sports staff and all interested ** tonight -** 
at 6:30 

··---·~ ....____.,........,....;.:__...:...;Jo....L----.....--------,;,.;,;.;.;;.--.;_----------------------------­

I 
I 
~. 
I \ ~i.:......;.._"-""u :..-=..-=........--=--=--'----"' 


1"he Observer Thursday, April9, 1981 -page 13 

Steven judy and the 4 Missing Strobs battle LUDUS in Bookstore actionyesterday. (photo by Rachel Blount) 
Lacrosse 
Irish whip Spartans 
1 IRISH COUNTRY I 
I Country Ribs II Dinner Special I I Wednesday &Thursday I 
I 5 pm-I am I I I
I Ribs, Fries, Roll -$4.99 I 
I s1.oo off I 
I . with this coupon I 
'----------------~· 
By BD.L MARQUARD 
Sports Writer 
Playing under the premise that the best defense is offense, the Notre Dame lacrosse team whipped Michi­gan State, 12-4, in Midwest Lacrosse Association play yesterday after­
noon. 
The Irish scored all 12 goals in the first three periods before the host Spartans could even dent the Irish. nets. Attackman Mike Lynch added four goals to his team-leading 10­point total while teammate Jerry Levesque added three points and an assist to give him 12 points for the 
year. 
"We were able to dominate the game with our riding ability," remarked Irish coach Rich O'Leary. "We were able to keep the ball in our end·of the field for most of the game." 
Michigan State was the first MLA 
_continuedf..om page 16 
shall of the first annual Tournament ofBookstore Parade. 
Ofcourse you can't have a parade without a queen, hut I'll leave that to the same · creative geniuses who 
coined some of this year's team have to bother with the games. But names. In the true spirit of that's what big-time athletics are all Bookstore, anything goes. about. 
Hey, and once we get this big­Take a bow, Bookstore commit­time, ESPN can just forget it. How tee, for a sensi!:lle decision. 

Paid Positions Available For 
DOME 1982 
Yearbook Business Manager, layout, Photography, Copy 


Anyone interested should apply through Student Activities Deadline -April 10 
foe that Notre Dame faced in its own University Division. Both Michigan State and Notre Dame were victims of inter-divisional powers Ohio Wesleyan and Denison last weekend. 
"We definitely dominated the game physically," O'Leary added. "The team got most of the ground balls and even had a 12-10 advantage on faceoffs. 
"Faceoffs were our biggest downfall over the weekend and we seem to have improved. 
Goalie Tim Michels, a transplated defenseman this season, was stellar in goal, rejecting all 20 shots the Spartans hurled and batted his way. The senior upped his percentage in the crease to .650 in five games. 
The Irish improved their league mark to 1-2 and their overall ledger to 2-3. Michigan State dipped to a hapless 0-3 in the MLA and 0-7overt­all. 
I At banquet 
Irish women honored 
By MICHAEL ORTMAN 
Sports Editor 
Donna Lopiano, the president of the Association for Intercollegiate Athletics for Women, was on hand at the ACC last night for Notre Dame's sixth annual Women's Athletic Awards Night. The guest speaker spoke on role models and women in sports. 
Lopiano, the women's athletic 
director at the University ofTexas at 
Austin, discussed her career as a 
four-sports national champiort and 
as an athletic administrator. She also 
related a few of the lessons she has 
learned in her varied athletic ex­
periences. 
"I learned a lot of things as a 
student-athlete," she said, "but I was 
24 years old before I'd realized it. 
First, the better an athlete you are, 
the more you doubt yourself A lack 
of confidence seems to grow with 
your talents. 
"The second thing is that the bet­
ter you get, the more you have to 
lose. It's a kind of 'Fear of Failure' 
syndrome." 
Lopiano spoke to a gathering of about 200, comprised mostly ofath­letes on Notre Dame's five varsity sports for women. three clubs and other special interest groups. A highly-respected advocate of Title IX and the gro·wth of women's at­hetics in the United States, Lopiano's presentation sounded much like a coaches locker room pep talk. 
"Every time you step on the field, you have a resposibility to do your best," she said. "You always have to take responsibility for your own ac· tions. You can't be perfect; you can only give I00 percent." 
Lopiano, 34, discussed the impor­tance ofpoise and confidence by an athlete. She related an experience of her own as a softball pitcher. One pitch she wanted back the moment she released it was ripped toward center field, and she ducked in self­defense. "I looked toward the out­field and didn't see the ball. I looked in my mit, and there it was. 
"I thought for a split second, and came up with the ball as if I knew I had it all along. That batter never got 
IN APRIL 
You've 
gottarun. 
Everybody's running in America's Love Run. You don't have to be an Olympic champion to join. Set a reasonable goal ... then ask friends, neighbors, and business associates to pledge 5¢ or more to the Muscular Dystrophy Associa­tion for every mile you run. 
Send in the registration form below along with your $2.50 tax deductible entry fee (check payable to MDA), and we'll send you an official T-Shirt, Sponsorship Form, Runner's Log, and complete instructions. 
r-------------------1 
I R8f)istration Form 1 I Mail to: I I I I Name I I I I Address 1 
: City State Zip 
l

IRunning Club Affiliation (if any) I 
I T-shirt Size (circle one) S M L XL 
J 

L------------------­
AmefiCB'S Love Run 
SM 

To benefit the Muscular Dystrophy Association MERCE BLDG., 103 WEST WAYNE STREET. ROOM 307, SOUTH BEND, IN. 46601 

another hit offof me again." 
In closing, Lopiano reminded that every woman who enjoys participat­ing in collegiate athletics should someday give something back. "You are the product of the Civil Rights Movement, products ofthe efforts of 

many people who struggled for seven years to make Title IX happen. In the future, you can repay "orne of what you've received by 1)support­ing others in collegiate athletics, 2) by getting involved in the Title IX movement, and 3) by insuring that others have the same opportunities that you've had." 
Lopiano was followed by a parade to the microphone of coaches and award recipients. Lynne Leone, past­president of the Notre Dame Club of St. Joseph Valley, presented the club's scholar athlete award to Kathy Ray of the field hockey team; Debbie Romo of the first-year­varsity volleybztl squad, Peg Walsh of the tennis team and pre-med bas­ketball player Maggie Lally. 
Fr. james Riehle, ·Executive Secratary ofthe National Monogram Club, presented the Most Valu'lble Player Awards for Field Hockey, Vol­leyball and Tennis to Jeanne Grasso, Kathy Dages, and Pam Fishette, respectively. Mary DiStanislao's bas­ketball team did not name an MVP. Mike DeCicco's lady fencers will be recognized at their own banquet later this month. 
Special Service Recognition was See WOMEN, page 12 
• • .Bookstore 
about our very own announcing team of Digger Phdps, WSND's "Wild Bill" Dempsey and Jeff "Vinyl for UMOC" Jeffers? Talk about the good, the had and the ugly -in any 
order you like it. 
After all this, they wo~ldn't even 

The Observer 

Carl Yastrzemski, Boston RedSox star and former Notre Dame student pictured here . slugging his 3,000th career hit, embarks on his 21st major
3000! league season tomorrow when the red Sox entertain Chicago at Fenway Park. (photo courtesy Boston Globe) 
ATTENTION STUDENTS 
The deadline for final application for summer employment, coordinated through local alumni clubs, is 
friday, April 1o) 
Applications can be obtained and 
returned to the Alumni Office, 20 J Administration Bldg. 


A Student's Guide to North America's Adventures and Delights 
f . . . 
.­
BIG CITY ACTION 
!',..·(1··-·"'WIIItfll~,~
rnlltl':'l<t" ..llld<'lko..•~ MtJol ... attn 
---' 
~\ " 
SNOW .."i:. •..f 
-~-.."""~~ ~ 
t.,-,t\llllt'S• WWf'f 
.....,.....,Hoot..... ..._..u tt. .. k .. ~ ..... IW'.I•t~ 
WILD AND QUitT RJVERS 
tl".bl.r.t$t.Jti~~t 'I..JN.aaalt'\'MIIlftl> I ~•Jad C*Mitr\ (.nf ~t-r-Jif'lfiM'f IM 
..t! ..~r-.l"f'l 

From the Editors of_A'--Magazine and Rand M~ally 
224 pages 81!2 x 11" 
Thursday, April9, 1981 -page 14 
... Carl 
continuedfrom page 16 

fact, Carl hit the hardest ball I've ever seen hit in my life. Had our pitcher not had very quick reflexes he probably would have been hit in the temple and seriously injured." 
Yastrzemski came to Notre Dame as a shortstop, but played some out­field too. Yet he always had aspira­tions as a pitcher, too. 
"He always had a curiosity about pitching. But watching him perform and seeing him swing the bat, no one in their right mind would let him pitch," Gibbons said. 
Notre Dame's freshman team played no scheduled games. Their main purpose was just scrimmaging the varsity. But even in scrimmages, Yastrzemski made his mark. 
Gibbons recalled  one  particular  
example  of  Yastrzemski's  
remarkable  power  at  the  plate.  

Before the days of the Memorial Library and Computing Center, Car­tier Field stood east and south ofthe old fieldhouse. The homeplate area ofthe baseball diamond was directly east of the fieldhouse, with the foot­ball practice fields stretching out near the stadium. 
In one intrasquad game, Y astrzemski tagged a ball over 500 feet (on the fly) to the base ofa goal­post on the football practice field. The ball rolled to the feet of one Hank Stramm, who coached both baseball and football at Purdue before a one year stop at Notre Dame en route to the NFL 
Stramm picked up the ball, looked to the baseball diamond and asked if Yastrzemski had hit the ball. 
"That just shows how well known , his talent was even then," explained Gibbons. 
Yet as his talent became more 
well knwon in professional circles, 
the crunch of scouts became even 
more unbearable. 

"I really began to be pressured around the end of my freshman year at Notre Dame," said the seven-time Golden Glove outfielder. "I finally decided to sign with the Red Sox 
early in my sophomore year. Granted, I was anxious for the big leagues, but the pressure of having all those scouts around so often real­ly began to bother me." 
Yastrzemski was inked to a Sox contract by Buts Nekola on Novem­ber 28, 1958, midway through his sophomore year at Notre Dame. With baseball occupying much of the spring and summer, Yastrzemski began attending Notre Dame for the first term of each school year in or­der to graduate. 
Even after marrying the former Carol Casper, Yastrzemki returned to the South Bend campus for the fall semesters of 1960 and 1961. 
"But it just became too much of a burden to move all the time, what with spring training, then the regular season, then Notre Dame," recalled the 41-year old resident of Highland Beach, Fla., who joined the Red Sox varsity in 1961. "I finished the equivalent of my junior year at Notre Dame before I finally called it 
quits." 

Yastrzemski finished his senior year at Merrimack College, within commuting distance of Lynnfield, 
Mass., which he eventually called home. He earned his degree in busi­ness administration from Merrimack 
in 1966. 

His major league credentials speak for themselves. The first American League player and the fourth major leaguer to accumulate 
3,000 hits and 400 home runs in a 
career, Yastrzemski leads active 
major leaguers in five career stat 
categories and is second in five 
others. He earned A.L MVP honors 
in 1967 and was the outstanding 
player in the 1970 all-star game. 

"Carl is an excellent physical 
specimen, particularly at his age," 
added Gibbons. "Iif trains all year 
round and never abuses his body." 

A tribute to his longevity and 
physical fitness is the major league 
standard he is still working on. 
Yastrzemski has played in 100 or 
11_1ore games in each of his 20 
seasons. Although two players also 
share that mark, Yastrzemski is the 
first to accomplish the feat in his first 
20 seasons. 

Yet, age eventually catches up 
with everyone, and the 5-11, 185­
pound outfielder/first baseman is no 
exception. Back spasms suffered 
during pre-st:ason workouts may 
very well sidelint: him for Friday's 
opener. 

Regardless, Yaz still has affection 
in his heart for the Golden Dome. 

"I try to stop by whenever I have a chance -it's really a beautiful place," he explained. "I especially like to bring my wife and kids back and show them the campus and the Grotto." 
Gibbons has nothing but praise for Yastrzemski, too. "He has more pride than any ath­
lete I have ever been around No one could ever say anything bad about Carl as far as I am concerned. He is a class individual. 

"As soon as he puts that uniform on, it becomes solely a matter of pride in his performance." 

I I 
i 
I 
'I 
\
,. I 
l· 
( 
.,I; 
I 
.,I 
( 
I I 
1\ 
I 
I 
\ 
I f 
)' 
. ,I 
Parents influence Hoyer 
ByEDKONRADY 
Sports Writer 

Behind every great tennis player, there are a pair of equally great parents. Jimmy Connors learned the game from his mother and grandmother. John McEnroe got his fiery style from his father. Mark Hoyer was introduced to the game by his parents, Dieter and Wilma Hoyer. · 
Road Notes wm give 
you the Inside word on: 
• 
where to watch a softball game on ice, sip the nation's finest brews, or find over 150 unique celebrations 

• 
hot-air balloon races, cross­country bicycle tours, two dozen windjamming excur­sions, soaring and more 

• 
200 not-to-miss attractions, from amusement parks to zoos 

• 
where to stay, eat, hang out, and party in 14 major cities. 


Road Notes combines 
hundreds of exciting trip 
possibilities with entertaining. 
on-the-road reports and practi­
cal advice for inexpensive 
travel. Compiled by more than 
70 student writers and regional 
correspondents around the 
country . 
Road Notes is a one-of-a-kind "take along" guide that be­longs in the backpack of any adventurous traveler. 
Available now in your college bookstore. $695 
@RAND MC?NALLY 

Mark, a senior from Port Clinton, Ohio, was nine years old and in love with basketball when his father "dragged me off to play tennis. I didn't like leaving my friends. But I enjoyed the idea of hitting a tennis ball with my racquet." 
The older Hoyer had just recently picked up the game himself, and it wasn't too long before the young upstart started handing his father a few losses. 
"My father was playing at a rac­quet club, and one day he told the club pro that his son had taken up the game," Mark says. "So the pro had my father bring me to the club. I played a little point game with one of the pro's students who had been taking lessons for a couple of years. Well, I beat him, and the pro took an interest in me." 
But for any tennis player, practice time is a necessity. Even during the worst of winter, Mrs. Hoyer used to drive her budding tennis star to the Toledo Racquet Club, which is over an hour away, just so Mark could take advantage of"Junior" nights. As summer came along, so did the regional Junior tournaments. Also there was Mrs. Hoy,.r with her car, to be Mark's chauffeur and cheer­leader. 
But now that Mark and his sister Linda, a sophomore at Notre Dame playing first doubles and second singles for the women's tennis team, have gone to college, have Mr. and Mrs. Hoyer taken a long and well­deserved rest? 
No way. Almost every weekend when the Irish are playing at home, the Hoyers can be found at Courtney Tennis Center. Whether they are watching their talented son or daughter, they always have time for the rest ofthe team, whom they treat as family. 
This weekend, the Irish play in the Bowling Green Quadrangular against Bowling Green, Northern Il­linois, and Akron. However, this match will be a little different from the usual away contests. The Hoyers are graciously hosting the entire ten­nis team during the weekend ofplay. 
After the Bowling Green Quad­rangular, if the Irish can stomach the drastic change from Mrs. Hoyer's cooking back to SAGA, they will face Michigan State, another Big Ten power, on Saturday (April 18) at Courtney Tennis Center, at I p.m. 
INTRODUCING 
~icqimta 

~J\l~J\~ 
ADVERTISE FREE AS MANY ARTICLES AS YOU WISH PAY IF AND ONLY WHEN YOU SELL Private Owners Only 
Pick up your copy of the First Issue April 10 from your neighbo~hood 
stores  or  from  our  office at  1717 E.  South  Bend  Ave .. SUite E,  
South Ben d, Ind iana 46637.  
Write  or  call  277-8521  to  place  your  ads.  

Deadline for accepting ads for our April 24th issue is Friday, April17. • SPECIAL INTRODUCTORY OFFER Advertise for two weeks free in our April 24th issue even if you sell. 


Sports ~l~:J~r~~~·e~~-b_~:s~::=~:=============T=h=u=rs=da=y9,AF-p=ril=9=,1=9=81=-=p=ag=e=lS= 
by The Ohsf'rt't'r and The Jt.rsuaated Pnr.r The annual Blue-Gold gatlle, marking the offi­
cial end ofspring football practice, is scheduled for Saturday, May 2 at 1 p.m. in Notre Dame Stadium. Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students will be admitted at no charge upon presentation of their student ID cards at Gate 15 only. General admission tickets for the public are available in advance at the ACC's Gate 10 box office from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m., Monday through Friday. Prices for these tickets are S2.50 for adults and Sl for people 17-and-under. Tickets will also be available at the stadium on game day priced at $3.50 and Jl.50 respectively. There will be no reserved seating. The game is sponsored annually by the Notre Dame Alumni Club of St. joseph Valley and supports the club's scholarship fund which currently sustains 16 area students at the University. -The Observer 
The Notre Datlle Women's Track Club will act as host for this Saturday's Notre Dame Invitational Track Meet. Any Notre Dame woman who would ·like to compete in the meet at the Monogram Track on Cartier Field, is invited to do so. Field events begin at 11 a.m. and running events are slated for 11:30. For further information, call john Amato at 1753. -The Observer 
Referees for Bookstore Basketball are needed. Any certified basketball official interesred in one of these paid positions should contact Lee Manfred at 7820 or 6100. -The Observer 
Signups for interhall gotf tournament and track meet are now taking pla~e at the Non-Varsity Athletics office in the ACC until Tues. April 14. You may register by stopping by the office or by calling 7185. -The Observer 
lb.e SMC softball team swept a doubleheader from Grace College ye·sterday. In the fist game, Mary Beth Hosinski went three-for-four as the Belles squeaked by with a 9-8 victory. Hosinski was also the winning pitcher. In the nightcap, Leslie Roberts had two singles and a home run in pacing the Belles to a 17-6 victory. Mary Bayless struck out four en route to the victory. Saint Mary's is now 8-2 on the season. The now travel to the Manchester Tournament for a Saturday game. The Observer 
Mark 0 lberding tossed in a career high 34 points and San Antonio got its fast break going last night to race past Housron 12 5-11 3 and even their NBA Western Conference semifinal series at 1/1. George Gervin, who backed Olberding with 21 points, hit a diving layup four minutes after the opening tipoffand the Spurs never trailed after that. The Spurs scored 11 unanswered points to open the fourth quarter and led by as many as 20 points enroute to the victory. The best-of-seven series now switches to Houston for games Friday and Sunday. -AP 
iJ~&I~~1~BOOKSTORE.~ii~il~~ 
YnterdiiY'• RaauHa 

Stepllrl1 Upper Mulakan Off·Campus over Ern1e Cobb & the Point Shavers by 9 The Goor:t the Bad & the Ugly and... over Blood on the Highway by 6 Dean Roemer & the Kegless Domers over Tu­Kanchu & the 69ers by 5 Roemer"s Regina Raceway over Buster Hymen & the 4 Skins by 7 
Stepan2 Dr. Dunkenstein & the 4 Skins over The Cocoons Surf Squad II by 8 Strokmg Irish over Florida Crowtrotters by 8 Mr. T & Bootsie over 5 Easy P1eces by 3 Razorbacks over Peanut Gallery by 2 
Stepan3 Team A over Charles Snavely by 9 The OK & the Hot-Shooters over M1ke Hunt & the Mellow Fellows by 14 TR Douche and the Rubber Receptacles over Pon­tius P•late and the Na1ldnvers by 8 Golden Grlffens over Gator P... by 14 
Stepan 4 The Virtuals over Fast Edd1e & the Short Comers by20 Muff D1vers over L•ttle Hands and the Whit tiers by 
8 
Baby Killers over 5 More Who Were Held Hostage... by 5 Lovely Bottoms over 2 Guys Who Need 3 More Before the 1st Game by •7 
See SPORTSBOARD, page 11 
·Classifieds  ..\11 cl.lSStf1(!·1 ads must be rt:retvec1 t:v 4 ..;5 p m two days ~nu• ~} tPt> •s.o;;L;P u1 ..,,,h~t:h th~ :ut •s run The Observer ;Hftrt? wtll accept c'd~S,~•e-.1~ Mor~d.tv '""""lh Fnd;o, 10 00 ·• n+ 10 5 00 fJ m Ail clasSifoeds "'""'be prtLl)dHI •. , ~'t~r •n pt~rson or through !he tndil  
Ride wanted from Milwaukee to NO onLOST: A brown clutch purse at Alumni­Sunday April12. Call Joanne at8915 at­McCandless Formal on Saturday, April Ier 11 pm.4. If found. please call Marc1a at x3850. NEED RIDE TO ANN HARBOR MI. FOR Interested in learning how to help r I EASTER. WILL SHARE EXPENSES neighborhoods help themselves? I FOR RENT CALL3048.ACORN offers summer internships for persons interested in social change. ...______::::H .H ­.....HHH... ------.J '1 need ~-~id·~..i~ ioWAW~d Aprit15 or ACORN rep will be in Volunteer AVAILABLE NEXT SCHOOL YEAR 2 Thur. April16 Call Mark 1475 Services Office, 1.5 LaFortune on FIVE BEDROOM HOUSES. NEAR ND. Friday, April10 from 4 tii5PM. LEASE, DEPOSIT. 234-2626 RIDERS WANTED TO WASH. AREA .......................... FOR EASTER call Kevin 3282 EXPERIENCED TYPIST WILL DO AVAILABLE SUMMER AND NEXT TYPING. CALL 287-5162. SCHOOL YEAR 1 AND 3 BEDROOM I'm going to Rockford, Illinois on Eas­APARTMENTS 234-2626 ter Sunday Need a ride? Witt be goneOVERSEAS JOBS -Summer-year just for the day. Call4-t-5792.·········· .............. . round. Europe, S.Amer., Australia. Furnished 3-4 bedroom house for sum­Asia. All fields. $500-$1200 monthly. mer, $200-mth. 233·3552. NEED RIDERS TO CHAMPAIGN, ILL Sightseeing. Free mfo. Write IJC. Box ······ ................................. AREA FOR EASTER BREAK. CALL 52-IN4. Corona Del Mar. Ca. 92625 Houses for rent summer and next MARTHA 4-1-5151. ......... school year. Gd. cond.. close to The Jazz Festival is Back--Don't Miss lt­campus. turn. Call287-5361 after6 PM. Wanted To buy used 10 speed bike 27 ·April10 & 11 inch. good condition Call Jim 3272 HOUSE FOR RENT GREAT HOUSEBASEBALL MITTS RELACED Call Greg FOR STUDENTS NEAR CAMPUS, NO Attention NO rrales: Need a wile? I at1740 FUSS FROM NEIGHBORS. GOOD need a fiance by the 13th--Apply in per· CONDITION, GREAT FOR 5 GUYS 1116 son or by phone to ANN FEALIC-7076. INSTANT CASH PAID FOR CLASS N ST. PETER CALL 232-1696 AFTER Pre-law applicants preferred. RINGS $20·$85 OR MORE. WE MAKE tOpmHOUSE CALLS. 255-2402. Need ride to Northern Jersey, NYC area lor Easter. Witt share usual. Call Don at Elections for BOSTON CLUB offices for 1981-1982 will be held next Mon­[_ WANT_ED_~jrs7t8.canleaveTuesday. day. April 13th. at 6:30 1n the Lafortune Little Theater. If you are mterested in getting involved, you must attend. NEEO 2 GRADUATION TIX. $$WILL FOR SALE PAY$$ CALLJOHN AT 1846 OR 1787 There will be a general meeting for L---~----~~----~ anyone interested in wworking on the I need a ride to Balto.-Wash. for Eas­Fall 1981 Transfer Student Orientation ter Call Tim at 233-5422. Witt share un­SURPLUS JEEPS, CARS. TRUCKS Comm1ttee on Thursday. April9. at6:30 usual. Car·inv. value $2143 sold lor $100. Call p.m. in the Pasquerilla West first floor 602-941-8014 Ext. 3648. Many other lounge. Any quest1ons call Annie at wanted Kaplan MCAT Manuals for Sept bargains available. 2725. MCAT Dan (after 6 pm) 277-8092 FOR SALE: 1978 WHITE CAMARO RESIST THE DRAFT!!!! For more in­WITH RED RACING STRIPE GREATNEED RIDE to Miami-Ft. Lauderdale or formation call TK at 3311. almost anywhere else in Florida AFTER CONDITION LOADED LOW MILEAGE GRADUATION. Call John Higgins at WILL SELL CHEAP CALL 232-1696 8553 or 1715 and lea~e a message. MUST SELL Tl-59 PROGRAMABLE Need nde to Purdue for Easter. Can CALCULATOR WITH PRINTER AND!LOST/FOUND I leave 9 am Thurs. Share usual. Jeff FULL ACCESSORIES $400 OR BEST 3053. OI=FER CALL PAT 8937. LOST­SMC CLASS RING. BLUE Need ride from Albany, NY. 011 Man, FOH SALE. BAR BROWN. BUILT FOR STONE, ENGRAVED S.S 83. CALL 4-20. Must know by 4-9. p.m. Call Jean-CORNER. MUST SEE BEST O~"FER · 284-5329 41-4842. CALL 233-!2&65 I lost my room keys in an intoxicated Need A1de to North Jersey­moment. I don't know exactly where I (Morristown)· lor Easter. Leave Weds. lost them. but I believe illo be on Green noon. Brian 3578 [-­TICKETSField. If you find a set of keys with 1008 on them please call Mike 1474. Need riders to Philly. Leaving Tues April 14 6:00pm Call 4-t-4970 or 4-1­LOST A blue jacket w1th a white lin1ng 5151 I need 3 (that's three) graduation tick· at Stepan on Sunday between 6:30 and ets. (Yes, folks, it's starting already.) If 8PM. Return to Mark at 305 Sarin or NEED AIDE TO WASHINGTON, DC you can help me. call Scoop at 1772. · call8542. AREA FOR EASTER. WILL SHARE Need EXTRA GRADUATION TtX badly­USUAL. CAN LEAVE TUESDAY NOON LOST A green notebook contaming im· CALL KARIN AT 2955 PLEASE call Mary Pat at 8091 portant biology notes. Return to Mark ......................... at 305 Sorin or call 8542 REWARD. Need nde to Muskegon MIChigan. Need multiple _smc graduat1on !lx. G•mme a break. Grand Rapids, or anywhere close for large family comong. please call 1erri (4632).this weekend Also need return nde on LOST: BLACK BINDER WITH N.D April 12. Please call Greg at 3"54. SEAL ON COVER CONTAINING MUSIC NEED 2 GRADUATION TICKETS FOR GLEE CLUB·-VERY IMPOR­NEED AIDE TO and-or FROM CALL: Tom 234·1367 TANT!!! IF FOUND PLEASE CALL Decatur.lllinois OR KEVIN AT x1022 or x2253 NEAR BY(Sprmgfield, Bloommgton) OVER EASTER BREAK. WILL SHARE LOST 5 APR 81 2 FATIGUE SHIRTS. 1 DRIVING.EXPENSES.ETC [ PERSONALS IPAIR FATIGUE PANTS FROM BADIN CALL PAT---4430 LAUNDRY CALL 8198 no questions (POSSIBLE DROP-OFF ON WAY TO St. asked. Louis) IN7'ERNATIONAL STUDENTS MARKETPLACE Today m LaFortuneFOUND: A room key near basketball Needed: Rode to St. LOUIS for Easter. courts. to room 242. on a short rope Can Leave Tues. PM. or Wed. A.M. Will PRO BURKE cord. Call Rachel at7892. Provide the unusual plus gas. call PRO BURKE Remette 41-5732 or Mary 41·5729. THE UGLIEST MAN ON CAMPUSFOUND: A BLUE SWEATJACKET AT SAVE THOSE PENNIES!!!! STEPAN ON FRIDAY NIGHT. CALL NEW JERSEY RIDERS for EASTER 8769. break leave TUESDAY or WEDNESDAY call BRENDAN at 232-8931. EMBMCOAET .FROM GER LOST. PAIR OF PRESCRIPTION GLASSES -TORTOISE FRAMES IN SOUTHERN CAL STUDENTS­A Summer Res1dent Camp Staff needed. YELLOW CASE PLEASE CALL IF baggage truck w1ll be leavtng NO to M1d-June to early August All pos1!1ons FOUND. FRANCIE 277-8760 Southern Cal. Call Pat 234-0:>15 open: Counselors. Water-front. Nurse. Cook. Contact: Girl Scouts of S1ngmg Sands. Inc.. 15985 State Road 23. Gran­LOST BASKETBALL BEHIND NEED RIDE TO PHILADELPHIA AREA ger. In 46530 or call (21 9) 277-0900. BOOKSTORE TUESDAY APRIL 7. AF­OVER BREAK. CAN LEAVE MONDAY TER 5 30 P M CALL PIERRE 3217 AT NOON CALL BRIAN 1847 BAIDGETS SPECIAL DURING SPRING COME BY AND CHECK OUT THE DAl­FOUND SMALL CHANGE PURSE ON Need nde to Philadelphia for Easter LY SPECIALS HAPPY HOUR 3·7SOUTH QUAD CALL MATT AT 232· Can leave on Wednesday Please call EVERYDAY0921 TO IDENTIFY Maureen at 41·57911  How did Mike Gurdak get to be so so ugly? There was a fire on his face and someone put it out w1th an ice pick. For the ugly that goes alt the way to the bone, vote Mike· ·two bagger" Gurdak. I'M THE WORST!!!! PRO IS THE UGLIEST MAN ON CAMPUS!!!! WATCH OUT AROUND CAMPUS BECAUSE IF YOU LOOK AT HIM. YOU JUST MIGHT TURN TO STONE!!!!! REMEMBER, HE MAKES THE CHILDREN CRY!!!! PRO BURKE FOR UMOC PRO BURKE FOR UMOC Ranes, Guees what? I caught you. Nothing gets by the boss!! My ballot is already in: Tim Ronan-UMOC! In Your Face Bo CHICANO FILM FESTIVAL! APRIL 9, 10.1 I Haggar Hall rm 117 All Showings 7:00pm span. by MECHA FREE ADMISSION! RECEPTION AF­TER SAT. SHOWING CJF-HSD CJF-HSD CJF·HSD CJF-HSD CJF·HSD CJF-HSD CJF-HSD CJF-HSD ' COLLEGIATE JAZZ FESTIVAL HIGH SCHOOL DIVISION Saturday. April I 1; 8:30-11 30 AM 2:00·3:30 PM Jazz clinic at 1:00PM by Howie Smith Clay High School (north on Juniper Rd.) FREE ADMISSION!! BRIDGETS SPRING SPECIALS THURSDAY MOLSONS 75c FRIDAY GIN AND TONICS 75c SATURDAY DOGS AND DRAFTS 3-$1 COME TO BRIDGETS FOR HAPPY HOUR TOO SHIRLEY, THIS IS YOUR PERSONAL FOR THE WEEK. I HOPE THAT YOU WILL HAVE A GREAT WEEKEND BECAUSE AFTER ALL THE HARD WORK YOU PUT IN ALL WEEK..YOU DESERVE IT!! HAVE A GOOD ONE ....... TIM Wear a white arm band on Commence­ment day in memory of the El Sal­vadorans who have been murdered with the aid of our money and Pres•· dent Reagan's blessing. SOPHOMORES--Anyone mterested in being a member of the Junior Advisory Council lor the1r dorm can pick up an application at the Student Activilles Office. 1st floor of LaFortune from Wednesday. Apnt 8 to Wednesday, Apnl 15 HELP I need a rtde to Batto.-Wash. lor Easter Call Tim at 233-5422 W1ll share unusual. . . . . . . . . . . . BILL GRIZZ NELLIST FOR UMOC. GIRLS LIKE HIM JUST THE WAY HE IS­SINGLE Jeff Jeffers 1S so ugly. he knows 11' GOODE IS BAD GOODE IS BAD GOODE IS BAD J•m Goode for UMOC. Bless him Father, for he has sinned. He must have... ugly doesn't come cheap JIM GOODE for UMOC. JeffJeffers IS d1sgustmg. PRO BURKE PRO BURKE HE MAKES THE CHILDREN CRY I!!! SAVE THOSE PENNIES FOR UMOC PRO. YOU RE AN UGLY MAN•II NEED RIDE TO PHILADELPHIA FOR EASTER!! CAN LEAVE THURSDAY PLEASE CALL MAUREEN AT 41·5791 Go to the Colleg•ate Jazz Festival--April 10& 11  RICHIE, Need ride to MILWAUKEE thursday IS IT REALLY TRUE THAT YOU FIRED before Easter for break. Can share ex­YOUR WIFE? I ALWAYS THOUGHT penses Call Deirdre at 8013 Call late if YOU WERE A NICE PERSON. you can't reach me any other time. YOUR BABY SISTER POOL TOURNAMENT EVERY TOBY, THURSDAY NIGHT AT IRISH DID YOU EVER THINK ABOUT FILING COUNTRY8PM FOR UNEMPLOYMENT BENEFITS? YOUR HUSBAND'S BABY SISTER LIVE MUSIC AT IRISH COUNTRY FRIDAY-EDDY ST. KNIGHTS HOW 'BOUT THAT LUMBERJACK LOOK? FRANK CETIA FOR UMOC! LIVE MUSIC AT IRISH COUNTRY: SATURDAY-CRYSTAL HE,V N.D.! P.W. HAS FOODSALES. OPEN 9-12 SUN-THURS. 9-11 FRI­Happy 21st Birthday, Leslie Lushlie · SAT. EVERYONE WELCOME. Mulligan!!! That incredible singer John Sweeny Donny. Carl,& Eddie: Can't wait for will be performing on stage at Annan­your wild party Friday night! Is John berg Auditorium Friday at 8:00 pm. Schaffer going to be there? Reception to follow m the Monogram Room. Meet the infamous Tom O'Brien tonight at 7:00p.m. m the second floor John Sweeny will be singing on stage library lobby! Cash in your date with in the acoustically perfect Annenberg this stud! Audttorium at Smte Museum Friday n•ght at 8 pm. Come and be awed by richard frank tracanna has secured hiS this incredible perlormence. Expec1al· pos1tion amongst the elite. he wilt not ly all Darby1tes. be 0.005 quality pomts short, as onginally indicated in this newspaper. Ride Needed to the Leh1gh Valley or cop taus apologies are eKtended. Anywhere in Eastern Pa. for Easter Can leave Wednesday Afternoon, 4-15. please call MIKE at 1866. There are only 38 days until gradua­tion. SECRET PAL YOUR LETTER CAME TOO LATE CALL AGAIN-RAH attention to the blonde, St. Mary's EDDIEO... freshman who was asked to a format at CONGRATULATIONS.HWHAT AN a Dillon party 2 wkends ago. Can't lind ATHLETIC SUPPORTER!! you please call Tom 1636 ................'' ...... 151 MOARISSEY...and you thought OUES: Why are NO girls gay? your personal days were overHBone is ANS: They went out with Tom Sh1els coming so clean your room.. when they were young Observer Sports Staffera -Meeting OUES: Who uses more Clearasil than tonight & every Thursday evenmg at Dick Clark? 6:30. All are welcome. ANS TOM SHIELS Vote TOM SHIELS for UMOC HEY SOPHOMORES!! DUNES TRIP OUES: How can anyone be ant1abor· THIS SATURDAY ... 55 BUS TICKETS lion 1lfter seeing TOM SHIELS? WILL BE SOLDTHURS& FRI. 6-7PM IN Vote TOM SHIELS lor UMOC LAFORTUNE OR GET A CARLOAD TOGETHER AND COME ON OUT! LOST BRING FOOD. FRISBEES. ETC. BE Would the person who took Nancy Zac­THERE!! zek·s make-up k1t at the begmning of the year please return ttl SOPHOMORES... BUYCLASSOF 83T· She really needs 11 back! SHIRTS! SOLD BY DORM REPS AND AT THE DUNES THIS SATURDAY JUNIORS-SENIORS TO BE Applications now available for 1981-82 CRYSTAL ROCKS Senior Adv1sory Council in Student Ac­CRYSTAL ROCI(S tivities Office in LaFortune Apply by CRYSTAL ROCKS April14 For a rock'n roll good time CRYSTAL returns to IRISH COUNTRY!!!! This Note to the Mooses Saturday night Don't miss th1s k1ck a-· Today, for the second t1me m three band! moons. there will be no humor Fear not. nothmg threatens the peace of my Hey LIZZy· realm But th1s IS yet a gnm day. I am Have a clue! Now that you're 2t ··GET the bearer of t1dmgs that make my A JOB• Have a great B-day. heart ache My strength wanes. the end of my DAN LEDUC FOR UMOC re•gn is near. I f1nd 1t more dlff•culteach DAN LEDUC WILL day to carry out my dulles MAKE YOU PUKE In my youth. there were battles to be Love. fought and enem1es to be destroyed 311.41 B. 1-2 246 But I have brought peace to the doma1n. and such thmgs trouble us no D1ck Afl1son. longer Would you please take off your I have always sought to bnng m11th to sweater? Its getting warm outs ode'! the mooses. and 11 had been enough But I grow melancholy. M11th suffices TOM SHIELS 1sSO ugly that hts mother no more. I need a greater purpose. one took him everywhere, so that she I have only found wouldn't have to k1ss him good-bye! I was in love once. I am m love once. VOTE TOM SHIELS lor UMOC The memory-and the pain-forever . . ... F... lmger. I am dymg m my solitude. TOM SHIELS comes tom a tong lme ot I Will carry on as long as I am able. but extremely ugly people! I fear the end approaches. My heart can Vote TOM SHIELS for UMOC bear no more. Bruce Control OUES What's orange. crude. and ug­ly? You see. even now 1grow confused; I ANS: TOM SHIELS and the Clemson cannot be sure who 1am ­Moose or t1ger• Oakley But perhaps 1t os merely that I Vote TOM SHIELS lor UMOC know that even With Bruce and Moose -and even Woody Kaybar-I am still The only one for UMOC only one And I am never enough. Is R1chard Stanage W1th a lace like hiS How does he manage? SAIL FOR YOUR HEALTH'  

-
Thursday, April9, 1981 -page 16
SRorts 
. _, 
-----·--------------------------------------~------------------------------~~----~----... 
Joyce lauds integrity
! 
I of01ajor sports 
curate to describe the Notrc Damc 
a three-part feature on Rev. Ed­athletic program as a one-man show." 
Editor's note: This is the second of 
mund P. joyce, Exe<·util'e Vice­
Still the skeptics would argue.
President ofthe Unit,ersity ofNotre 
Whether it's the sclection of a new
Dame am/ Chairman ofth£• Faculty 
football coach, cutting hack the
Board in Control ofAthletics. 

hockey budget or funneling frcsh By FRANK I..aGROTT A dollars into the infant woman's bas­
r· 
and CRAIG CHVAL ketball program, the athletic Sports Writers mandates at Notre Dame always seem to come down from on high. 
"The interesting thing is, be and I Shrouded in secrecy, the decisions bat'e u•orked together for 35 years arc rendered suddenly and usually I and u•e't•e tu•t•er bada had u'Ord be­with little explanation. Joyce, 
tu•een us. lie's consert•atit•e, /'tn however, defcnds the proccdure.~' lihaal and sometimes we do have a "What we try to avoid is having ( difference ofopinion. Halfthe time .3,000 advisors every time thcre is a 
he's right. But u•e't•e net•er had a ·decision to be made," he points out. fip,bt ill 35 years, and he has to get "We just don't feel that kind of more credit for that than me." operation would produce good Rev. Theodore ~-Hesburgh results. There are, as you might im­agine, a lot of omstituencks who lfbhurgh may he one of the few would like to have a voice in thcsc pcoplt· who can accurately make matters, hut we feci the process we that daim about Rev. Edmund P. use has worked very effectively in 
thc past."

Joyce. Although, hy his own admis­"Fathcr Ned docs all the spade
sion, athletics arc hut a small part of work on a project, and thcn we sit
his dutic:s at the University of Notre Dame. Ovcr thc ycars joycc has down, talk it ovcr and reach an Because Mother Nature cooperated, yesterday's bookstore basketball games were not hampered by } managc:d to alienate: various groups agreement," explains Hesburgh. rain. (photo by Mike Tuohy) it's hiring
') who do not subscribe to his "When a matter of philosophies on athletics. He main­someone, I always meet the fellow tains, however, that none of it is by bcforc he's given the job because he 
design, although he continually will have to report dircctly to me. But Father Ned and I have workcd
shies away from publicity, even together so long that he knows what
whcn an explanation may scrvc to 
Yaz begins 21st season 
( i clarify a controversial situation. I'm looking for, so I usually takc his ! "I've never been one to actively advice. Hc always has things wcll ! I ' seck publicity," he insists. "I try to thought out." joycc further elaborates on his By BnL MARQUARD row. discipline," recallcd Yastrzemski as
kt·ep a low profile and let those who arc on the firing linc every day takc own role in the program. Sports Writer His namc is Carl Y astrzemskt. he reclined in the visitor's club­most of the credit. Of course, the "I think I can take legitimatc pride Born and raised on long Island, house at Cleveland Stadium last 
athletic program here gets plenty of in the intcgrity ofour major sports," CLEVELAND -At the platc his his father a Polish-Amcrican potato summer. attention simply because of the he says. "We're honcst and abovc hands havc fallen a bit. But the bat farmer, Yastrzemski gained rapid "Thc work I did in high school nature of the beast." hoard in every phase of the opera­still stands straight up, cocked for and wide acclaim for his baseball was nothing likc thc studics I did at 
Ncvcrthdcss, it is Joyce who sup­tion. Of course I can't take all the the kill, a monument to the hitting prowess even in high school, first on Notre Dame." posedly has thc: final say in sctting crcdit because the climate for that records that he has felled with a the Island and soon throughout College life was also difficult for high-level policics t()r Notre Damc's was cstablished before Icame here." mighty swing of the lumbcr. major lcaguc front offices. Yastrzemski to adapt to. lucrative: athletic department. He sccs his position as one of One of major lcague baschall's Back in 1957, thcrc was no draft of "I was far away from home and Howevcr, he shakes his head in dis­monumental importance in Notrc legends (and one of Notre Dame's frcc agent players, so tcams became very lonesome," offcrcd 
Dame's ability to maintain a high locked in bidding wars for prime Yastrzemski, who won the American
agreement when it's suggcsted that best kept sccrets) cmbarks on the he is, in fact, both judge and jury for level of integrity which is envied third dccade of his illustrious sandlot talent.. Yastrzemski was a I..cague's batting triple crown in the program. among colleges and univcrsities bascball career when the Boston prime target for a plethora of major 1967. "The death of my grandfather league scouts and general managers, soon after I arrived didn't help mat­
"That's not the case at all," says Rcd Sox play host to the Chicago
SeeJOYCE, page 13 ters much either."
Joycc. "It would be grossly inac-White Sox in fenway Park tomor-but nonc of thcir offers, particularly for signing bonuses, could match the Being a freshman, Yastrzemski six-figure sum his fathcr had set. was ineligible for the varsity squad 
A man with strong Catholic roots, whcn he arrived in South Bend. Hc Yastrzcmski's father wanted his son thus camc under the watchful eye of to go to Notre Dame, in his opinion Jim Gibbons, then thc freshman the finest Catholic university in the baseball coach and now the director
No bucksfor Bookstore 
of special projects at the university,
~ountry. So despite fancy offers from !~ most of the metropolitan New York whom he struck up a friendship with that has lasted even today.
schools, as wdl as Duke, Miami and 
1t sccmc:d, at t1rst, rather innocent. A little amusing, "I must admit that it was prctty
sevcral major league balclubs,
perhaps, and to some degree flattering, but all in all, cat>y to look at Carl as a freshman and
Y:>.strzt·•nski arrived on the Notre run-of-the-mill. O!ro::;: o:;~t1il~'.IS in the fall of 1957 to realizc he was a cut abovc evryonc 
ESPN wanted to tclevise the finals of Bookstorc X. Big
' h.·~m •b.: 6-:h~lnling his father had so dse," remembers Gibbons. "He did deal. ~BC-T\' already docs the Bengal Bouts, and don't
t v.;at;u,·. i hitu to pursue. everything so effortlessly. forget ESPN brings us su<:h major attractions as big 
.. 1·h.· l.:1i;~gs I remember most "He would attack a baseball. In It-ague rodeo. Aftn all, Sports Illustrated was here three 
aboui Notre Dame are thc high 
yc:ars ago, what took ESPN so long? See CARL, page 14
academic standards and the strict 
Ho-hum. Thc:rc: was one thing almost cveryhody overlooked of Bookstore competition, the money could have been -nHllley. used for recruting purposcs. Simari and his staff could Yes, believe it or not, most of thc students at Notre' then scour the nation's playgrounds looking for the bcst 
Moeller tradition
Dame. that bastion of foreign cars, homes on thc Shore Bookstore talent. In a philanthropic vein, the money 
and Cah·in Kit-in jc:ans, forgot all about the big bucks could be set aside to pay the hospital bills for the winner that always accompany a tde\'ised sporting evcnt. And, of this year's covetcd Iron Man Award. unlih· the: Bt·ngal Bouts, which are sponsored by the Ofcourse, we cannot be so naive as to overlook the 
continues atND 
l ·ni\'ersity's dc:partment ofnon-varsity athletics and run possibility of the tclcvision revenuc never getting into 
tiJr <.·harity. Bookstore has no official tics with the Notre the proper hands. Simari, no fool he, may wiscly pocket By MICHAEL ORTMAN lustrated, and us was the "guys from Mocllcr."
Dame athktic dt·partment. the money and invest in Baskin-Robbins stock. Definite­Sports Editor 
Tht· money that ESP~ would have parted with had ly a bullish markct for ice cream around herc. Everyone knew it would happen tht· Bookston· committce succumbed to the tcmpta­The money, though, is just the start. In the immortal The first day of spring football -a media blitz centering around tion of a <.·ash bonanza would pale in comparison to thc words of Flounder (or was it Frank LaGrorta?) -"This practice had just concluded. Gcrry that Catholic high school in Cincin­sums dt·posited into the Notre Damc coffers after is rcally great." Faust's players were kneeling nati -Moeller, Moeller and more 
Moeller. The coach came from thcre
I nationally-televised football or basketball games, and Bookstore originally was conceived to fill the void in around him as hc asked each of his ,f it's a \·irtual cl'rtainty that any money received would every Domer's life oncc football and basketball seasons assistants to comment on the day's as did six of the players. have gorll' to thl' l1ni\'ersity's general operating funds. havc concluded. And that same void exists in the life of progress. They werc all enthusiastic.
lr
,., But imagine. just for a moment, what the Bookstore evcry red-bloodcd American. Thc American public is ..Best first practicc I've seen in 1 7 
I 
committt·e umld have done had it gotten its hands on just ycarning for somcthing rcally big, and as NBC years," said administrative assistant Spring Football'81 
the cash. would say, this is it. Joc Yonto. , Then thc mild-mannered head 
,.'• Commissioner Rob Simari could ha\·e used the First you have to have a parade -just likc the Rose to
J money to fulfill a life-long dream of Commissioner Bowl. It would be a perfcct excuse to revive the Senior coach came relatively close "Is this thc samc Gerry Faust you Emeritus and Bookstore Legcnd Tim "Bone" Bourret, Death March and throw toilet paper along Notre Dame looking exasperated. "This'll be the remcmbcr from Moeller???" 
f I and constrUt:tcd a permancnt stadium behind the avenue. We could cven invitc the rugby tcam to mar~h last time, I promise; but after thc But thc coincidcnce hasn't hin­Bookstore. <.'omplete with sky boxes and an exploding along. If we can get Ronald Rcagan to speak at com­prayer, will the Moeller guys get to­dered things so far, and as Bob scorcboard. Or hc could have purchased his own mcncement, he'd surely consent to be the Grand Mar-gethcr over thcrc. They want a Crable explains, it's not the kind of newspaper. That way, he could print the names of all picture of us." thing you get tired oftalking about.
~ thc Bookstore teams in their entirety. See BOOKSTORE, page 13 They were from Sports II­
I 
See MOELLER, page 11

if. 
I j ~ 
,.. 
'i fi 
<; 







