------------------... 
COUP -page 2
I I I 


VOL XVI, NO. 40 an :ndependenc srudenr newspaper serving notre dame and saint mary's WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 14, 19HI 
Egypt picks Mubarak as successor to Sadat 
CAl RO, Egypt ( AP) -Millions of cause tht: tlight was Ic; minutes late. Egyptians, not deterred by fatal Earlier in the clay, the ministry, bomb blasts at Cairo's airport and a whit:h controls the country's police, gunhattlc bl·twccn police and :\tlo~­said that authorities seized five lcm extremists in Giza. voted yester­heavily armed Moslem extremists at: day in a rcti:rcndum to confirm ter a dawn shootout ncar the Giza llosni Mubarak as sue<:cssor to slain pyramids, Egypt's top tourist attrac­President Anwar Sadat. tion southwest of Cairo. It said two 
No violcnCl' was reported at the policemen and om: soldier were polling stations, guarded by heavily injured. armed soldiers and police. Alhough The ministry said two of the five security was tight, it was not con­captured men were ring-leaders in sidrcd tmusually strkt. Egyptian the fundamentalist assault on 
media broadGtst rt·ports of the air­security men in the southern city of port bomb blast and the shooting Asyut today. Security officials said ncar the pyramids throughout the 118 persons, nearly half of them day. policemen, were killed in the two­
Mubarak. the country's vkc­day battle. The three other captured prl·sident and the only date, was cer­men were said to be accomplices. tain to win approval from Egypt's 12 Despite the violence, officials said million eligible voters. voter turnout was heavy for the 
The Interior Ministry said the referendum on Muharak. a 53-year­time bombs exploded on an Air old war hero and fighter pilot who Malta flight from Libya shortly after Sadat chose six years ago as his suc­
it landed at Cairo International Air­cessor. port and discharg~.:d its 93 passen­Long Sadat's closest collaborator, gers. Mubarak was unanimously endorsed 

Police said a baggage handler was for the presidency by Egypt's Na­kilkd, and another haggag~.: handler, tional Assembly and the ruling Na­an Air Malta steatkss and two tional Democratic Party a day . after sc.:curity guards wcr~.: wounded. Sadat died in a blaze ofguntirc while They said three of the wounded rcvciwing a military parade last were seriously injured, but did not Tuesday. say which ones. "He is our hope now. We must he Hosni Mubarak cast his ballot yesterday in a 
Airport oftkials said none of the all together for the future of Egypt," referendum in ll'hich he is the un~)' candidate to passt:ngt·rs on the Boeing 737, most-Sadat's widow, .Jihan, said when she become te new president ofEgypt. His left hand is 
ly Egyptians who work in Liby and her four children voted at a pol­hurl. The plant: originatt:d at Tripoli, ling station near their Giza Libya's l·apital. and made a stop-over rcsidt:nce. Misconduct in Valktta, Malta, tht: airport officials As tht· voters entered the polling 
said. · stations, th~.:y were handed a slip of Polin· said the tirst bomb ex­paper bearing Muharak'spicture and 

Amnesty Int '1 urges FBI probe 

ploded while on a baggagl· cart two circles -a red one for "yes" below thl· plane. Thl·re was a stTond anc.l a black one t(Jr "no." Few voters LO:'IIDON ( ap) -Amnesty hltl'r­Reagan's administration to set up an "convicted ... after hl'ing targetnl for bhtM I·• minute~ later, they said. made any attempt to conceal them· nationalto:.lay claimed the FBI fabri­inc.lepenc.lcnt commission of inquiry FBI intdligl·ncl· auion." 
:'llo group imnwdiatcly claimt:d sdvcs :1s they marked their cross in cated evidence anc.l used other into alleged FBI misconduct. Both mt:n claim they arl' political responsibility for tht: blasts. the red circle. means to put the leaders ofblack. In­In Washington. FBI spokesman prisoners framed by tht: FBI through An lntt:rior \tinistry statt:mt:nt In the countryside of the :'\J ile dian and other American minority Roger Young stated that "until we fabrication of l'Vic.lcncc and the 
said the bombs hac.l bn·n timt:c.l to Ddta north of Cairo, voting was groups behind bars. get a chance to revit:w tht: rl·port it ddihcrate with-holding of "vital in· 


explodl· inside till: airport tnminal, The J.ondon-basnl human rights would be impossible to commt:nt on timnation by the authorities."
See MUBARAK, page 4 

hut detonatt:d during unloading he-organization urged President it." Amm·My oftlcial Ann Burlt:y. who Amnesty, which campaigns compiled the l·i-1-pagt: report of al­worldwide hlr the rdeasc of politi­leged FBI abuses, said: "over a
Along coast 
cal prisoners and regularly criticizt·s period of many yl·ars we've had authoritarian regimes t()r alkgl·d case~ rt:li.·rrl·d to us of allegl-d FBI human righb violations, said the in­misconc.lut't and we ti:el that in many vestigation should center on the tri­of tht:Sl' cases thl· allegations have 

als of Black Pantht:r le<tder Elmer ht:en suhstanti<ttnl." By PEGGY ANDERSEN "passing as white was seen as a matter of survival for Pratt in 1972 and American Indian Asked how extensive the allegl·d Associail•cl Press \r'riter generations," says Barbara Ray-Garrett, executive Movement leader lhchard Marshall FBI misconduct was, she said: "it's 
director ofthe Northwest Florid01 Creek Indian Council. in I976. impossible to say. W c can only go on Their language, too, is dead, and a majority of them lack Both men were convicted of mur­thl· cases sent to us and our cvalua-ALEXANDRIA. Va.-From tht: Makdtcs of Maine to a high school education. der and sentenced to liti: prison 



US. forgets Eastern Indians 
See FBI, page 4

the c:re~.:ks of thl· Florida Panhandle, the Indians of the terms. Amnesty said they were eastern I'nitnl States arc the forgottt:n tribes -in­
.\l01ny of tht: almost 3,000 Narragansctts of Rhode Is­
land arc below the poverty level and still rely partly on visible to the whitl' man, long overlooked by the federal 
tishing and foraging for a living. governml·nt and shunned even by their brothers in the 
As many as 60 percent of American Indians, by one West. 
United Way 's Orie

estimate, havt· mdtcd into the populations of large <:ontrary to popular bdid, more than half of the 1.6 
cities. Bill Hayes, 37, who wears his hair in long, cloth­million Americ.:an Indians live l'ast of the \1ississippi 
wrapped braids, belongs to a group calkd tht· Three River. "hut most peope don't l'Vl'll know we're here," 


outlines plans to HPC
Rivers Council that is trying to bring together about 
~ay~ llelen Schdrbcck, a mcmht:r oftht: l.umhee tribe.· of 
2, 500 such Indians from more than 60 tribes who were North Carolina. 
cial barriers that exist, but laterfound "tloaling in thl· mainstre01m" of sodetv in the 
By MOLLY NOLAND 
maintained that "We (rectors) arcThe.· lot of t hl' Pittsburgh area. . 
Neu•sStaff 
here to help, hut the prohk-m is thl· EaMl'fll Indians is Today, with only 16 of the 280 federally rcognized sllldcnts'. We c.lo not want to tdlnot a happy one.·. Indian tribes in the lower 48 states based in the East, the United Way Fund Drive Chairman them what to do."
About 50 per­Eastl·rn Indians an· organizing to gain kdcral recogni­Joe Oric outlined the organization's 
Mahoney then r~.:vcaled the senti­
c.·ent of thl· l.um­tion, ~ocial St'fvices and money. 
guidelines for the Nov. 1-7 drive to 
ment of\/omcn rectors that women
bees. the largest But their aim, they say, is more than money. the Hall President's Council during at ND ar•: willing to help pay fortribe in thl· East "It's not a matter of getting a 'piece of the pic,"' said its weekly meeting last night. 
dorm part1t.s (usually, mall-dorm
at 'iO.OOO member~. are illiterate and poverty-stricken. .\1 ichad Ranco of ,'\1ainess Penobscot nation. Orie urged Council members to members are expected to pay all en­
.\lost arc cotton t;trmers and small business men. "It's become a matter of pride ... of principle. We're immediately begin publicizing the tertainmt·nt costs). "BecauseThe Edistos of South Carolina. barred from both 
still here, and we're not going to go away," said Mrs. drive and int(mncd them that "no 
women do not pay f()r parties,"
white and blac.·k public schools until the I<)60s. have St·hdrbeck, director of tht: Alexandria-based Indian ln­money, directly or indirectly, shall Mahoney statl·d. "they lack any com­
lost thl'ir tribal language and native arts..'11any han· 
t(mnation Project, which was created ro hdp link the go toward abortions." 
mitment to stay anywhere and end
drifted elsewhere. !l-aving only 'iOO remaining in two 
more than I00 Eastern tribal groups. Next. Flanncr Hall Rector Bro. 
up bopping all over campus." Thel'Ountks of the state. As a child, sa1d Rosa Winfree, a Lumbce from Char­Peter Mahoney was introduced to result of this "bopping," accordingThe Florida Creeks, once part of a v<tst Southeastern 
lotte, :'\J.C., "I was told to take pride in my Indian discuss socialization at Notre Dame. 
WEDNESDAYl4t!Jl[1; 
i:ihl~ulttrFO CUS 
tribe that Prt:sic.lcnt AndrewJackson tried to relocate in 
Mahoney began by volunteering the 
See HPC, page 3
Oklahoma, maintain a sense ofcommunity even though See INDIANS, page 4 
help of the rectors in alleviating so­

Wednesday, October 14, 1981 -page 2


ewsBriefs 
President Reagan hailed Spain's KingJuan carlos yes­terday as "a champion of democracy" and said the United States stands soldly behind efforts to make hi~ country the fir~t new mem­ber of NATO since It)')'). In private, the monarch told Reagan that Spain would be of "whatever help it could" in prumoting peace in the Middle East, and he volunteered that he has a good rdation~hip with jordan'~ King Hussein and the royal Saudi family, a senior American official said. "Any help of that kind will would be welcome," ~aid the oftlcial, who declined to be identified. He added that the King's offer would be pursued by Secretary ofState Alexan­der .\1. llaigjr. -/lP 
Catherine Campbell, a 2';-year old \'ISitlllg graduate student at the l 'niversity, was in ~::rious condition at St. Joseph's \1edical Center after being s_truck by a hit-and-run vehicle about I I :50 p.m..\1onday in the ')()() block of N. Eddy. Chief of Security Glenn ·r ·:rry said the woman was riding a bicycle when struck by a vehicle, dcscribnl as a white-over-blue Lincoln, that dragged the bicycle about a block to .\ladison and :-.Jotre Dame Ave. South lknd police arc investigating the accident. .\Is. Campbell. 
120') E. \linn and a vbiting student from England, suffered a broken leg and head injuries. Ikr condition was reported as "much im­proved" during the night. -The ( Jbseruer 
A decorated Vietnam veteran asked the govern­ment yesterday to reject the stark design selected l(Jr a memorial to Amerk·ans who di<:d in Vietnam. lie called it a "black gash of shame and sorrow" that would humiliate those who t(Jught in the war. Thomas Carhart, a \\'est Point graduate who kd an infantry platoon in the I 0 I st Airborne in Vietnam, told the Fine Arts Commission the design commemoratt·~ the war ··as some ugly, dirty experience of which we were all a~hamed." He wore his two Purple Heart~ ­awarded those who are wounded -on the jacket of his ~uit. "One hundred years from now, long after we're all dead and gone, visitors to the Mall will sec only one thing -a black wall in a trench with a random scattering of name~ on it, such that (the name ofa) brother, 
·father, friend or loved one could never be found," he said. The com­mission, which approved the design in July, heard Carhart out in ~ilence but took no action on his request. Members said no recon­sideration wa~ called for. -AP 
Yale University Professor James Tobin, the 
chief architect of a lheory analyzing how families and businesse~ juggle debts and a~~et~ against ri~k and return, has been awarded the ll)~ I Nobel Memorial PriZl" in Economic Science. The Swedish Academy ofScience~ awarded the prize yesterday to the 63-year-old native of Champaign, Ill., for hi~ "'analysis of financial markets and their relation~ to expenditure dl·cisions, employment, production and price~." "'I really didn't expect this to happen," Tobin said from New Haven, Conn. lie said he was "surprised. excited, pleased." Tobin, who became the I Oth American in 13 years to receive the Nobel Memorial award, had been a front-runner for several years for the prize ~et up and funded in 1968 hy the Central Bank ofSweden. llis analysis deals with change~ in financial market~ and how they affect hou~eholds and firm~ and their decisions on how they spend, consume, inve~t and incur debts. -AP 
Countfeitersthrew away 1o,ooo or more fake tickets to a Rolling Stones <.:oncert last week in Los Angele~, apparently because they couldn't sell them, police said. The ticket~ "looked a little better than the real thing," said Detective Ed Boyce. They were found in a trash bin. Boyce said the counterfeiters' plan apparently went awry when sales lagged and some people were selling genuine S I') tickets for SIO. -AP 
The Guardian Angels should be assigned to patrol Lake .\1erritt, a recreational area in Oakland, Calif with one of the highest crime rates in the city, the police said. Police Chief (;eorge Hart rdea~l·d a report with that recommendation. The crime tight­ing group of street-wi~e youths was t!Junded in New York; an Oak­land chapter is being organized. Sgt. David Krau~s, a police spokesman, said .\1onday no plans had been made with the Angels. 
Police want to sec if enough ~uitable volunteers are recruited. The police recommendation must be approved by the City CounciL 
AP 

The tria} Of Army Pvt. joseph Chri~topher in three of four ".22-caliber" killings that terrorized Buffalo :'1/.Y.-area blacks last vear ha~ been postponed until Monday. justice William J. Flynn of N.Y. State Supreme Court granted the delay to give pro~ecutors time to give to the defense any evidence that might be favorable to the 26­year-old defendant. Chri~topher i~ to be tried here on three ~econd­degree murder counts. He faces another charge in neighboring Niagara County. The trial had been scheduled to begin today. -AP 
Afl argument OVer a telephone call at a Davenport, Iowa hotel led to the stabbing death of a Hammond, Ind., resident, police said. George P. Zelata, 23, died a few minutes afer police found him lying about a half a block from the Demp~ey Hotel on Monday. He had been ~tabbed twice in the chest. Anthony Wayne Evans, 20, who is from East St. Louis, Ill., was arn·sted at a Davenport residence after police talked to witnesses who observed the stab­bing in the hotel's television room about II p.m. ,\1onday. -AP 
Cloudy and wann today, with high~ in the 7o·~ and a 60 percent chance of rain. Cloudy tomorrow, with little tem­perature change. Highs again in the 70's with a 60 percent chance of rain. 
COUP studies ND's mission 
September 19, 1972, l :niversity President Theodore Hesburgh appointed the Committee on University Priorities ( COt:P) to, in his words,"study the present and, especially, future of Notre Dame in an effort to determine what are the most important and indispen­sable ekments ofofour totalmis~ion, the most essential a~ contrasted with that whi{.'h might have seemed desirable under other circumstances." 
In the December 19'3 issue of .Votre Dame .'vfagazine fr. llcsburgh outlined the priorities COUP established t<Jr the -'""Os, emphasizing that the report amounts to "a proposed blueprint t!Jr the future of Notre Dame" 
Somt: projtTts that COUP indicated as necessary in­clude: renovation of Lafortune Student Center, enlarge­ment of Hammes Bookstore, additional facilities for Engineering, enlarged Art (ialkry, renovation of Ad­ministration Building, and a !acuity oftkt· building. 
At the Trustees meeting last spring. a Priorities and Commitments t(Jr Excelknu: (PACE) committee wa~ appointed to replace con> and establish University prioritit:s forth<: ·~os. 
According to Student Activities director james \!<:Donnell, one ofthose priorities should be a new stu­dent center. 
"Two years ago, Student Body President Don .\1urday gave a very effective presentation in favor of a new student center to the Trustees," \\eDonnell said. 
"Last year. however, stu­dent representatives re­quested two"hangouts" for students. Murday's presenta­tion ofthe previous year was never followed up. Conse­quently, students received Chautauqua and the Oak Room Cafe. 
"Chautauqua and the Cafe were both good ideas. Those who have experienced them have enjoyed them, but there haven't been the num­bt:rs to make them viable. Somewhere along the line someone will have to raise the question, 'can we justify the expenditures in these areas''". 
An anonymous source said that he believes one ofthe major priorities at Notre Dame for the 'HOs will-have to be a recognition ofthe need for suitable social space on campus. 
"One of the reasons for this is because the '70s brought coeducation to the University," he said. "With coeducation came the need for a suitable female/male ratio, as well as proportionate space for women's residence halls and adjustment in the areas of women's sports, faculty and auxiliary services. 
"The social requirements stemming from the 
presence ofcoeducation, however, have not as yet been 
adequately met." 
He noted that the residence halls have undergone 
some modifications in the past few years in the way of 
24-hour lounges and party space, but emphasized that 
the halls were not built with coeducation in mind and 
therefore can not ~ubstirute for adequate social space 
The_OhserYer 
Design t:ditrJr.................. (jrcgory Swit:rcz Desijt,n Assistants... .. Tim :'\lcc:ly T1•pesetter... . ..... St~phen Brown .Veu•s Editor...... .............\1ary Agnt:s Cart:"y Copv Editors ..................... Stt:vc :'\Javarre 
.\1aurccn ·first day' O'ToolL' Sports Copy Etlitor.................. Ed Konrady 7)•pist... . . ...... J~anin~ Hyn~s .~)'stems Control ................. Bruo: Oakley ,Vf) Da1• l:'tlitor... .... Paul .\lc<iinn S.HC /Jay l:'tlilor . ............\lary Kay Hogan Ad Design..... ................. Fran. lioh Slota Photographer ............ Tom O'Brit:n Guest Appearances... . .. Big \X'hl·t·ls 
The: Rt:turn of th'-· Orb 
Th~ lkst RAPISTS ·so~!'!· ~urday 
Griff sans O'Gill Paul 'Big G' McGinn 

The Observer (USPS 598 920) is published Monday through Fnday and on home football Saturdays. except dunng exam and vacat1on penods. The Observer is published by the students of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Col­lege. Subscriptions may be purchased for $25 per year ($15 per semester) by wntmg The Observer. P.O Box 0 .. Notre Dame. lndlana46556. 
The Observer is a member of The Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
Second class postage pa1d at Notre Dame. Indiana 46556. 


on campu~. 

"LaFortune Center has been used as a student center t(JJ over thirty years. It was not built as a student center and only converted to such in the early'')()~ when Notre Dame needed only weekend social space. 
"During the en~uing 30 years, the undergraduate population nearly doubled, coeducation became a reality and student need~ and expectation~ changed. 
"'Even Lafortune has undergone modification. Some of these changes , ~uch as the Deli and the ice-cream counter, were successful. Still, the building has nen'f been adequate or functional. 
··\\'hen students have no place for social gathering on campus (unless you want to consider the second t1oor of the library or the Enginening auditorium), and have 
to go oft'-campus to parties or the bars or the neighbor­hood streets, then some­thing is ddinitely mis~ing at Notre Dame". 
Physical Plant Director James Dedrick expressed doubt that a new student center would solve social problems at Notre Dam·e. 
''I'm not sure that we don't already have a fine building in LaFortune," he said. "The real problem may be that ~tudents have to create their own programs and clubs within the space we have. I will then renovate and convert the space to meet these specific needs. The PACE report on Univer­
sity priorities for major projects for the next decade is scheduled to be finalized this spring. 
If students are seriously interested in securing a stu­dent social center as a priority for the '80s, McDonnell recommends that they bring their ideas to the attention of student government, rectors, staff members and Trustees. 
Observer notes'--------, The Observer announces the promotions ofKelli Flint to ,Executive News Editor, David Rickabaugh to News Editor, and Chris Owen to Advertising Manager. Flint, a junior from Chicago, III., and three-year member of The Observer staff, has served as a senior staft' reporter, copy editor and news editor. Rickabaugh, a sophomore from johnstown, Pa.. also has served as a senior staffer and copy editor. Owen, a sophomore from Cooperstown, N.Y., has served as an advertsing salesman and as assistant advertising manager. 

. ·-. ------------------------------------­
The Observer \X'ednesday, October 14, 1981-page 3 
Nationwide campaign 


Republican committee backs Poles 
By COLETTE ST. AOBIN to tn:etlom of religion. freedom of the undnsigncd wish to stale hdi>re / and PAlfl. McGINN t'Tlllgration, anti treedom to organizt· the world community our Mtppllrrt \ •·u·s Staff in voluntarv as~ociation~ su~.:h as for tht· people of Poland in their 
unHm.o.. stmknt group.., and struggle to retain their inalknahk With hopt·, of securing ~.:hurches, rights." nallonwidt· campus support li>r the And wh~-reas. thc..,e rights have The petition drin: docs not om­men and women of Poland, the Col­been tkninl to the people of Poland dally begin until tomorrow. Mark kge lkpuhht-,111 ~ational Commit­since ll):W. tlrst by National Socialbt Lynch, Pn:sident ofthe :'llotre Damc tee plans to colkn 'ign;Hurt·s from (;crmany and now tht· Soviet llnion, Saint .\laf)·'s College lkpuhlicans studt·nts and fantltv throughout the And whc:rc.:a..,. tht· pc.:opk of <:tub. stated that petition signing has '\0 statl·s. Poland have: made ~teady gain~ in e..,­begun at Alumni. c;ract· ami Flannc:r 
Tonwrrrow at I p.m.. Ralph Heed. tahlbhing thc.:se right.., since: August. halls. Lynch set tomorrow's national n10rdinator of the drive, ll)HO. signature goal at 1,000. I 0,000 ''ill s1wak in front of tht· LaFortune And whcrea.., thest· newly won signatures arc cxpn·tcd by Nov. 12. 
~ludell! Cl·nter to begin the oftidal rights art· lt'opardiznl hy a Lynch said that he: b optimistic petitioning pron·s,_ threatt·ncd invasion by the Soviet about the number of signatun:s that 
Rn·d Matnf that till' purposl· of I Inion and its dil'nt states in Eastern tht· petition will acquire. "\X'c will till' petition drive b "to let the Com­Europl·. make the I0,000 signatures goal and mtmist~ know that Aml-rican ~tu­Therefore, bt· it resolved. that we then some," he cxplainl·d. 
dents accept frtTdom and rc:jn:t Communism.•end m show that we (the people oftill' llnitnl State~) arc lttlly hdlind the Poli~h people in 
• HPC 

their ~truggk." Tlw magnitude of llw dfon re­
know the pc.:oplc having the parties;
continued jhnu flaMe 1
quire~ that over 60 organizations 
they were: informed of it not hy a 
to :\lahoncy and liP<: memhl-rs.
l'OOIWrate in the distributing and pnsonal invitation, hut by a mass­n>lkcting of thl· pt·titions. 
makt·s for an impossible soda! situa­
produn·d sign. Drumm proposed Al'cording to Brian Stanley, 
tion both ti>r the women "boppns" 
more nrganiznl social activities as campu~ vice prt·~>dt·nt of the Col­an alternative to such "ghost"
and the men who wouldlikt· to mlTt 
lhl·m.

kg<· Repuhlkans. •·tt'~ a non­
parties. and alt1rrncd Brother partban dli>rl.... Tht· freedom of Libby Drumm. prcskkiu of 
.\lahoncy's conviction that women Poland i,., an emotional issue that Pasqucrilla \\'est, statnl her bdid 
will he glad to hdp li10t the bill en>~~~·,., all partis<tn line~." that the reason women (many of 
From this tli~cus..,ion cn,.,unl a The pl·tition rt'Jtb: which 01rc undcrdassnll'n) tt·ml to 
largc·scak forum of the dating and "\\ hcn·as. the men and women of hop from party to party Stl·m~ from 
sodalization prohll'ms at :-,j!) which Poland ~han· the rights 'If all peopk tht· fact that they simply do nm .indutlnl numerous remedies for 
rnid-wn·k as wdl a~ wel·kend al­ternatives. Among the suggestion.., 
growth. Oak Room Cafe. prodaiming that wnc a Wednesday movie night, The request fi>r a Studl·nt <:.enter Student (iovernnwnt is 1f) ing to

Directors convene 
where couples can view old movies to get pcopll' away trom the dorm~ make it hoth profltabk and a social 
fi>r free; a "swap your roommate: arose. hut died under :\lahoncy·~ "hang-out." 
night." where: roommates in a rl·minder that while a "neutral stu­She n·vealnl Studt·nt Ciovcrn­

for semi-annual meet 
fi:malc dorm exchange ~tully dent ct·nrer may come in the futun·. mcnt'.., allempt to provide WlTkly partners for the night with the immediate need i~ for creatiVl' sptTials and wcekl·nd l'nll'rtain­roomm<l!l'S in a m.ak dorm; a111J in­ideas." rnl·nt to entice ~tudcnts to takl· ad­
:\tkhiana Arts and Sciences Council
By SAJ.~DY VAI.ENZUEI.A 
tl·rhall at:tivitic:~ sud1 as a pizza din· The tina! visitor to speak was Stu­vantagl· of the pkasant atmosphereand 19'\0 SMC graduate, spoke on
Neu·sStaj) 
ncr with a dorm ofthe opposite St'X. t.knt Body \'i<.:c: President Tara Ken­and additional soda! space. Thl· only
"Boardmanship" and what it means 
l)oyd Burke, Flanncr Hall ney. She reminded HI'C mernbas obstacle to musicalcntertainnwnt is to bt· an active: Board member.
The Alumnat· A~sociation Board 
pre~iJcnt. set ti>rth the nt'Cl'Ssitr of that the lihrar}"~ hour.~ have been opposition from student~ who wantOther spcakt·rs included Lawrenceof l>irt'l'lor.., of ~aint :\laf)·'s Collt'gl· "blowing-off study time Juring the extended to 12:-t'\ this WC:l'k on a tri­lo Mudy tlwre. That objeuion tlrl'WDurance. vice-prt·sident fur Collc:gt:
whkh st'f\T~ ;t~ tht· chid govnning 
week to alleviate the loss of mid­al basis. \\'ith enough positive stu­further disnt..,~ion from Council
Rdations and.fohn \1. Duggan, presi­
hoard of till' Alumanc As..,odation 
week continuity." lit: maintained dent response. .\Is. Kenney r)ll'lllbers who hl'lil'Ve that t'X­dent of the Board. Thomas Reid,ml't••n l·ampus Thursday and Friday that students rna~· han: 10 let the expresst·d hopes that these hourr-. n·ssive ,,tudying and too Jiukdirc:nor of Campus \1inistf)·.
li>r thl'ir semi-annual ml'l'ting c;PA sufkr slightly to pursue the \\ill b..; extended pl-rrnanc:ntly. socialrzation is till' major soda!
described some of tht· new
Tlw two day meeting started out more nohk ~.:aust· of personal Next..\Is. Kenney discu~sed thl· prohkm on campus. 

with hn·akfast in till' dining hall and an Oric:tllation Mn·ting to wekomt· new members to thl· board. 
lndudt·d in the agenda were various spnkcrs. Shirky BurJkk Sickmann, executive dirt·ctor of the: 
'Women' lecture set for tomorrow 
l>r. Rita Levi-\lontakini will ddiVl'r a ll'l'tllrl· elltitkd "Womt·n and S<.:krKc". at 7::\0 p.m. Thursday in Carroll Hall, Saint :\lary's. 
programs planned by the Campus Ministry Department. 
Othc:r alumnae a..:tivitie~ indudcd in the weekend Wl.'ft: a .\ta~s in memory of Helen M. Carroll, a I')22 graduate who served as cxc:cutive dircctor of the Board for ~ 7 }'l'ilfS, and an Alumnae Tailgate Party hdd prior to till' football game. All alumnat' thtoughout the country. wert: invited. In the evening, iilumnac: had the opportunity to at­tend a Ot:ll Joio Concert. 
Special ~.:omrnittt·e sessions in­cludt·d student recruitment. studt·nt-alumnac devdopmncnt. and alumnae resources. During thl· paM year thl' Board has un­dergone: a sdhtudy and rt:organiza­tion and is undertaking no new 
major projects at the monll'nt. 

BARCLAY'S FRESH APPROACH: 
.FILL UP • 
YOUR 




FAMILY 


A fresh approach to good food. 
52XH5 US 31 North, South Bend. 272-547H 
©Cuntincntal Rcstauranl System,, llJXI 

~,~.~~..~~.~ ~ 
i 
The Observer_ I 
1 1 

Is looking for design assistants I I 
1 

~. *Late night wor~ ~ *Paid positions 
(If you qualify)
/

~--0· 
_,/ 



'* 1 Night weekly 
1-=-"~---=-=c-~.-c.cccc --·--·-----=~1 

',\ Cal1Mike8661 
------------------------------., 
The Observer Wednesday, October 14, 1981 -page 4 
• • • Indians 

continuedfrom page 1 

heritage. Then I grew up and learnea that I was not always accepted by my (Western) Indian brothers as an In­dian." 
School records often classify East­ern Indians racially as "other," she said. "Being recognized as an Indian has something to do with building self-esteem and pride, not just dol­lars." 
Federal recognition makes tribes eligible for programs and services provided by the Interior Depart­ment's Bureau of Indian Affairs, as well as assistance from the depart­ments of Labor and Health and Human Services. 
The BlA says recognition also ack-­

Reagan speeds SUdan aid to qUell Libyan threat 
WASHINGTON (ap) The Reagan administration intends to ac­celerate shipment of defensive military assistance to the Sudan, in part because of "increased threats from Libya," White House spokes­man David Gergen said yesterday. 
Gcrg t en said a technical team of 

li.S. military personnel would ac­company the equipment "for a relatively short stay" to familiarize the Sudanese with the equipment 
But. he addl·d, "This is quite dif­ferent from and should he distin­guished from the whole idea of military advisers." 
He provided no dctaib on the types of military equipment that nowledges :'that a special relation­ship exists ... that the tribe can control its own affairs and that the United States will provide trust protection for tribal rights and property." 
The process is painfully slow for those, like the Lumbecs and Nar­ragansetts, who still lack federal recogmuon: South Carolina's Catawbas, Long Island's Shin­necocks, Maryland's Piscataways, 
Connecticut's  Mohegans,  
Delaware's  Nanticokes,  New  Jer­ 
sey's  Ramapoughs,  Vermont's  

Abenakis and the Creeks ofAlabama, Florida and Georgia. 
John Shapard of the BIA said the recognition procedure takes about four months for ea:·h group. longer if 
would be sent, or on the number of American personnel involved. 
'·These arms arc being pmvided to help the Sudanese defend them­sdves," he said. 
Gergen also said Secretary ofState Alexander M. HaigJr. had indicated that accounts of an interview with the Sudanese president were "overdrawn." 
The spokesman reminded repor­ters that President Reagan said Sun­day the United States does not "contemplate and we'n: not sending any combat troops over there." 
"The U.S. commitment to the Sudan is with regard to military and economic assistance," Gergen said. "That's what we're talking about. 


THE JAMBOREE 


IS COMING 
: STUCK IN SOUTH BEND OVER· : 
• OCTOBER BREAK? BREAK AWAY: : with HERTZ! as low as ~IH 19.00/week• 
e These Economy Fares are Touring Rates, subject to • e change without notice and non-discountable. There a~ 
• are no minimum day and advance reservation · • erequirements, but. restrictions on when and where cars Wer/iz • emust be returned. Gas is not Hertz •
• 

• 23..:37t2atAirport WHERE WINNERS RENT • 
• 232-5871 Downtown HERTZ RENTS FORDS AND OTHER FINE CARS .. 
~ 

.............................. 

NO COUPON NEEDED 
'BIG BUS'' O'HARE 
(now to Midway too!) 6 times daily from ND circle 
LEAVE 
NOTRE DAME 
4 30 a.m. 7:10a.m. all 
9:00a.m. c your 
10:45 a.m. travel agent
1:15 p.m.-234 3108
5:20p.m. or ­Indiana Motor Bus 

appeals arc filed. With applications expected from I 50 tribes, the bureau decides about six applica­tions a year. 
"At the current rate. we'll finish in the year 2003." Shapard told a recent project conference here. 
Among other things required for tribal recognition. the government looks for proof that a tribe has had a "continuous political existence" or succession of leaders, not necessari­ly a formal tribal <.·ouncil, Shapard said. 
"We're not looking for feathers and drums," he said. 
Some Indian leaders object to the bureau's criteria, which Mrs. Scheir­bcck says "punishes people who went to the cities to look for work, to better themselves." 
Says Marguerite Smith, a New York City Ia t wyer and member ofthe 
Long Island-based Shinnecock trihl·: "everybody else has changed. Why does everyone expect us to be the l>ame a~ we were 300 years ago?" 
The traditionally independent· minded Eastern Indians consider the BIA a mixed blessing. Some of their leaders say the agency fosters dependency and restricts initiative. 
A. David Lester of the IIHS Ad­ministration for Native Americans understands those fears. 
"Selfrdiance goes hand-in-glove with selfgovernment," Lester said. "Paternalism undermines the whole reason you wanted recognition in the tlrst place." 
continuedfmmpage 1 
relaxed and casual, and few security men or police in sight. 
"All votes were for Hosni Mubarak." said a poll captain in the village of :VIan~had Ganzour. where all the 1.300 registered voters among the 4,000 inhabitants had cast their ballots hy noon. 
In another polling station. a Wes­tern photographer who went to take pictures was handed a ballot. When he said he did not want to vote. he was arrested and released -with apologies -only after he had been 
Fr. Edward Sorin celebrates "Founder's Day." (photo by Tom 
O'Brien) 
taken to the local police station. 
The state-run television aired 111m dips to remind viewers ofMubarak's command of the Egyptian air force in the I 973 Mideast war against Is­rael and his career as Sadat'!. deputy. The war erupted on Oct 6, 197~­and it was at a victory parade to celebrate the eighth anniversary of that day that Sadat was assassinated by an army lieutenant and three civilians disguised as Egyptian sol­diers. , 
Officials !.aid the assassins are members of a fanatic Moslem sect dedicated to killing Moslem leaders 


it will pay you to keep in touch with your campus communicator .. 
Ibe-0~~~-~~e.r _
. --~~A.-=::Y~ 
Cor·by's IJe•e•' Specials 
Wed. $1 •eliili Thurs. $~ b'ili'i 
Fri. ll~ 
n~argaritas 
I a~nda 


• Mubarak 
who do not livl:" up to its standards of fundamentalism. 
Mubarak. who i~ expected to take stern measures against religious ex­tremists, voted near his home in the Cairo suburb of Heliopolis under strict security. 
Sudanese: President .\tohamcd Gafaar Nimeiri. who has held honorary Egyptian citizenship for years, also cast a ballol. Nimeiri told reporter~ he asked Egyptian authori­ties for permi~sion to cast a ballot to express his love for Egypt. "which is my second fatherland." 
Sudan. a halfArab. halfblack African nation. was ruled jointly by Britain and Egypt until 1956. Nimciri is one of the tew Mideast leader~ to continue to support Sadat after Egypt signt"d a peace treaty with IsraeL 
, , , FBI 
cmllinuedfrom page 1­

tion of them. There are a couple of dozen cases receiving our atten­tion." 
The Amnesty report charged that some ofthe abu~es were carried out under the FBI's COINTELPRO counter-intelligence program directc·d against dissident organiza­tions in the United St:ltes. That program officially endc·d in 197I. 
But, the report alleged: "other misconduct took place long after that under investigation programs." 
Ms. Hurley told The Associated Press in a telephone interview: "whether it is still tht· case we don't know. But politkal activists in the 
U.S. say it is continuing. In that sense our investigation has not finished.'. 
However, she emphasized that Amnesty has no! ''in many cases been able to make such a clear judg­ment as we've done'' 111 the cases of Pratt and \1 arshall. 
Pratt. a Black Panther leader in southern CalitiJrnia. \\as convicted in that state ofkilling a white woman during a holdup in '-ianta .\Ionic a. 
-"larshall was convicted of killing an Indian in a bar in Scenic. S.D., in March 197';. 

-~ 
The Observer Wednesday, October 14, 1981 -page 5 



Career history lecture 
Burnham discusses psychology 
By DAVID GUFFEY 
News Staff 
Four areas of study -medical psychiatry, pastoral counseling, so­cial work and acad<:mic psychology -compose the professional idt:n­tity of psychology and counseling, according to Dr. John C. Burnham, professor of history and lecturer in psychiatry at Ohio State University. 
Dr. John C. Burnham spoke last night as the fourth in a series of dt·ven speakers on tht· Develop­ment of Professions in American !lis­tory. 
Game day parking progresses 'smoothly' 
By DAVID SARPHIE 
SeniorStuffReporter 
De~pite st.·veral students' com­plaints, parking for the 50,000-odd tans who visit Nmre Dame on Foot­hall Saturdays has remained general­ly smooth. According to the busint·ss manager ofthe Notre Dame athletic department, Jost:ph O'Brien, student cooperation with tht.· special traffic regulations cf­ft-ctive on the Saturdays of home 
liJOthall games has aided the !low of traffic around campus. 
lie specifically mentioned the removal of cars from student parking lots to Green Field on these days to allow room for more visitor parking."Wt· have rarely rarely had any problems with the students moving their t·ars to Grt•t·n Field." ht· said. O'Brien also nott:d that Junipn Road is open only ti.Jr one­way traftk from tht· north on game days to aid traftk !low. 
O'Brien reportt:d that students normally parking in the D-1 lot across from Crat.T llall are gt:nerally unaft(:cted by tht.· ~pedal parking n·gulation~. "Students with D-1 de­cals on their cars are always allowed in that lot." he said. He noted, 
SMC Board reviews CAC, newsletter 
By MARY MciNERNEY 
Neu•sStuff 
Saint Mary's Board ofGovernance mt·t Sunday night to discuss progn:ss in tht· Cultural Affairs Com­mittee and the Saint Mary's ncwskt­ta. 
The Saint Mary's Cultural Affairs Committee mt·t last Thursday with students, Donna Perreault, Julia Trimarchi and .Jane Zswerncman in attt·ntlance along with many of the Saint ,\-lary's t;lculty. The committee agn·nJ that Performing Arts events should become more varied in ap­peal to tht· ~tudent bodv. The uJm­mitttT will strive 10 pre~ent movies with cultural value a~ well as popular appeal. 
Tht· first Saint :\t.u·y's news!t-ua will be available Tuc~day. Oct. 2"'. Tht· new~k-tkr compilnllly Mudt·nt Su~an t·:ich will inti>nn studt·nt~ ahom.·urrent <.·ampu~ bMJt·~. ~uch a~ paril'tab, the nt·w library, class and hallt·vull~. food ~ak~. traHil .1ppcab procedure~. and party locations that art· available to stuJuns on-campus. 
A new Adlloc Committt-e on lkgent~ wa.~ limnnl al tht· meeting. The committt-e, chain:d by :\larianne Callan, will addrt·ss stu­dent problems and questions that they fed should be brought lO the alt!:ntion of the Board of Regt:nts. The comittee's goal is to present the students viewpoint on the issues that the Board of Regt:nts addrt:sses. 
Psychiatrists and neurologists in the nineteenth century, Burnham explained, treated mental illness in asylums and hospitals away from society. They served as "alienists who determined whether a patient was alien from himself." Around 1905, psychotherapy was developed and found effective in treating patients. From the developement of psychotherapy tremendous growth in out-patient clinics arose. "By 19:W. half of all treatmt·nt of mental problems was conducted as out-patient service," he stated. 
however, that a certam number of visitors are allowed to park in that lot for the games. 
A spokesman for the Redden Travel Bureau, the agency con­tracted by the University to handle parking on game days, agreed. "We sell parking tickets into that lot to a small numbt:r of visitors," he said, 
do we sell out the lot." 


:·: 
:·



If you think''pads and rollers''are 
···: 


iust a California craze, you're not ready for New Memorex. 
:: 
Psychotherapy was so successful that people involved in pastoral counseling and social work began to usc some ofits techniques. Religious counselors found that they could fulfill their traditional healing role using psychotherapy. Social workers, as they began to con­centrate on individual clients, found the methods useful to assist their clients. 
Clinical psychologists up to the late 1930's wert: involved primarily with the academic study of human mental problems as a science. After that, they began to apply this research to counseling. 
World War ll was t:xtremely im­portant to the dt:velopment of modern psychology. The stress on the fighting men and on their families created an expanded need fi.Jr counselors, a need that did not require medical doctors. 
The demand for counselors has not decreased, but has increased. Organizations were created to es­tablish educational and ethical stan­dards for psychologists and psychology became an integral part of the education ofclergy and social workers. 

Pads and rollers are key com­ponents of a cassette's tape transport system. 
This system guides the tape past your deck's tape head.lt must do so with uner-ring accuracy. 
And no cassette does it more accurately than totally new Memorex. 

The new Mernorex tape trans­port system is precis1on engi­neered to exact1ng tolerances. 
Flanged, seamless rollers guide the tape effortlessly and exactly. An overs1ze pad hugs the tape to the tape head with critical pres­sure: firm enough for precise alignment. gentle enough to 
G. 1981 Memorex Corporation. Santa Clara, Calltornta 95052, U.S A 
dramatically reduce wear. 
Our unique ultra-low-fnction polyolefin wafers help precision­molded hubs dispense and gather tape silently and uniformly, play after play. Even after 1.000 
plays. 

In fact, our new Memorex cas­sette w1ll always deliver true sound reproduc­tion. or we'll replace it. Free. 

Ot course. re­
:: ..· 

produdlon that true andthatendunng owes a lot to Per­mapass '".our extraor­dinary new bind1ng process. It even owes a 
little to our unique new 
fumble-free storage album. 
But when you record on new Memorex, whether it's HIGH BIAS II, normal bias MRX I or METAL IV, don't forget the impor­
tance of those pads and rollers. 
Enjoy the music as the tape glides 
unernngly across the head. . :: And remember: getting it there !••.. 
is half the fun. 


NOW MORE THAlli EVER t WE lSI: IS IT LIVE, OilS IT ~ 
MEMOREX 
i 
.I 
' 
r 
-

Wednesday, October 14, 1981 -page 6
Editorials 
One year later, the legacy still stands strong-
Ifthey askj(Jr me Say: He had some business in another land. 
-Sokan. "Death-Song" 
I was going to write a Bill Toohey column today. I was going to write about Bill because I wanted to make sure that no one forgot him, what he did, and what he stood for. For some reason, I was afraid that the first an­niversary of his death would pass un­noticed, and, as is often the case in 

the years following a death, that he would be gradually forgotten by everyone except those that he had been able to touch in some special, personal way. 
But, and I'm very pleased to say it, this has not been the case at all. The outpouring of recollections, tributes, and love toward the memory 
"Sometimes it takes a death to show what a life is worth... it is a pureiy physical thing, and in that, we can learn something about how to live." 
of Bill stand as a heart-warming tes­timony to his life and how he touched those of us lucky enough to have known him. There's not much more that I can say about him that has not been said elsewhere, but there is a lesson in the life and death of Bill Toohey that can teach us something 

about our own lives. 
l think the thing that was most spe­cial about Bill Toohey was the way that he could make you feel that you were special, even if he didn't know you. I can't remember him ever pas­sing up a chance to shake someone's hand, or tease a friend, or to seek out some student who looked especially depressed or lonely. As Jenny Pitts said in her article yesterday, it seemed like he was always standing in the window of the Campus Minis­try office waiting for you to walk by. He would smile or wink and put his fist up by his ear, which meant· 'Call me." That routine became as much a part of my life as going to class, be­cause it seemed like he was always there. 
Then he died. I was out of town when he fell ill, and I don't think l understood the magnitude of his ill­ness until he died. And, as it always 
seems to happen, I didn't fully un­derstand what he meant to me until he passed. In a way, I took it very per­sonally; I don't know who I felt more sorry for, me or him. I think a lot of us felt those same emotions. It's a strange feeling, but it has to do with the part we lose when someone who has touched us dies. Bill was going to perform my wedding, maybe even bless my kids. I liked knowing that he was in that office, even if I didn't go in as much as I 
should have. 
And in my personal loss, I started doing what I think too many of us do in such a situation; I avoided facing it. I stopped walking past the Campus Ministry office, and I stopped dropping in for coffee and chat. To this day, I don'tlike going in there, because I don't like looking into his office and not seeing him 
there. But I think about him a lot, probably more than I did when he was here. and as I watch people show what Bill meant to them, I am comforted, and I've learned some­thing. 
It's an old saw, "you'll never miss me until I'm gone," and as it is with most old saws, it's true. We do not seem to appreciate someone until he's gone, and we find all these things we meant to say and do. But, there is another way of looking at it, and it is, in the end, after all his homilies, columns, books, and talks, what Bill's life has to show us. 
Did he die? I don't think so. He 
lives in my memory, and he's living 
in a lot of other people's memories 
too. Because of the way he went 
beyond mere friendliness, because of 
the way he could make each of us feel 
very special, and because he chose to 
live his life with what he might have 
called radical love, he left a part of 
himself with many, many people, and we will carry that part of him around with us until we die. And if we do learn the lesson, perhaps we can transfer it to those coming after us. 
Sometimes it takes a death to show what a life is worth. A life can take on more meaning after the person is gone and we can reflect on what they stood for. If any good comes out of the death of Anwar Sadat, I hope it is that peo·ple will see how senseless war and killing is, and follow Sadat's example of forgetting pride and the past in order to build a better future. Sadat once said that he would crawl into Jerusalem on hi.s knees if it would save the life of one Egyptian 
Viewpoint )( 
''Viewpoint'' offers members ofthe ND-SMC community their oppor­tunity to speak out on issues oflocal, national and international impor­tance. 
This week's question: What should the Notre Dame administration's number one priority be over the next ten years? 
Submissions should be sent to the Editorials Editor. P.O. Box Q on campus, and must be typed, double-spaced, and no more than 150 words. Longer submissions will probably be edited. Deadline: Friday noon. 
soldier, and he ended up paying for this position with his life. We can on­ly hope that his death was not in vain. 
The same kind of thing can be said for Fr. Bill Toohey. Having known him, I'm not as cynical as I used to be. Bill showed us what can be done with a life, and in turn, how that life can transcend death. Death is a pure­ly physical thing, and in that, we can learn something about how to live. Death is not only inevitable, it is im­minent; it hovers over us each and every moment of our lives. But it is 
not necessarily the end, it can be a beginning. and as such is nothing to fear. 
l remember watching the crowd at Bill's funerallastyear. and I remem­
ber how amid all the sadness, how inspiring it was that 3000 people would come out in honor ofone man. This man was not a glamorous world figure, or a statesman, or anything near what you wuld call ··famous." He was simply a priest who had tried in his way to make those people that he met see the possiblities and sig­nificance in their lives. And one year later, it is still inspiring to see how tha~an's memory lives and how his gift of life continues. 
I know, I'm verging on the sen­timental, and it's not fashionable to talk of things like love and hope, but in these days of wars, military build­ups. assassinations, economic crises, rampant crime, increasing racial 
Anthony Walton 
Outside Wednesday_ 
polarization, disintegrating family and moral values, runaway materialism, and the general feeling that somehow our world has gotten away from us, it's good to know that there are some things and some people you can still feel good about and look to for inspiration. 
Bill, wherever you are, I'm proud to have known you. 

Reliance on Sadat may hurt future peace 
Reporting on Israel's last election, Bernard A vishai wrote that Menac­hem Begin's Israeli critics thought he was seeking an excuse to break the 
Camp David agreement before next April, when the return of the Sinai is scheduled for completion. Accord­ing to this reading, Begin's settle­ment policies in the West Bank were meant to put Egypt in an impossible position. 
Egypt would be seen, in the Arab world, as abandoning the other oc­cupied territories in order to get its own Sinai back. This is what Sadat had tried to avoid by coupling the return with provisions for Palestinian autonomy on the West Bank. If Begin in fact uncoupled those provi­sions, Sadat would be forced to break the agreement first, sparing Israel the need for further cession in the Sinai. 
If that reading was right, then Is­rael has an even better excuse, now for keeping its remaining portion of the Sinai. But if it does so, Egypt will almost certainly be driven back into the Arab fold. The Camp David in­itiative will have failed, will have wasted valuable time will have foreclosed other options now forever unexplorable. 
It is the end of a dream. But the 
dream was always fragile. The ac­
cords were presented as President 
Carter's major foreign policy achievement, and they had the mark of Carter's character on them -a belief in individual assurances of good will, in moralistic personal diplomacy. The accords, drawn up at Camp David while the American president prayed with both prin­cipals, were hatched in Carter's nest, warmed under his breast. 
Yet the accords have long-term marks of American style on them, as well. We have often pinned our hopes on one man's virtues, real or imagined-on Chiang Kai-shek, on Ngo Dinh Diem, on Mohammad Reza Pahlavi. This personal commit­ment was maintained even when ex­ternal foes and internal resistance swirled around our heroes. When their own people threw out Chiang and the shah, we protected them, tried to return them to their homeland, declared them our favorites in the area and therefore the legitimate rulers. 
But it is foolish to ride the tides of history in the raft of one man's popularity. It is a form of hero wor­ship that ignores economic, religious, tribal, traditional forces that move whole masses of men as well as single heroes. 
We pinned a great deal on the per" son of Anwar Sadat, subscribing to the "indispensable man" fallacy. Sadat was indispensable, all right­but only to our eccentric plans, not to 
Garry Wdls 
Outrider 
his own people, whose welfare he may have jeopardized by a reciprocating reliance on America alone. If his heirs cannot t maintain that reliance, that will be because it was ill-considered from the start. Sadat allowed us to deceive our­selves for crucial years that the Pales­tinian issue can be ignored, or solved by letting Israel "create facts" that make it insoluble. We are back at square one, where we were bound to arrive not because of Sadat's death, but because of what we made of his life. The realities of the Middle East cannot be papered over with our un­real "strategic consensus" -a 
"consensus" based on a single man's holding power in precarious times. 
We must deal with the larger issues. We should have learned that after the fall ofChiang or Diem or the shah -but we did not. And we probably won't learn it after Sadat's death, sadder than any of the others' fall. ' 
Universal Press Syndicate 

Editorial Board and Department Managers
==Ihe=ObseLVer== 
Editor-in-Cbief............................. .)ohn McGrath Photo Editor........................................)ohn Macor
Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
Executive News Editor......................... Kelli Flint
The Observer is an independent Editorials represent the opm10n of a 
News Editor ..................................Tim Vercellotti 
newspaper published by the students of the majority of the Editorial Board. Commen­
News Editor.............................David Rickabaugh Business Manager .........................Rich Coppola
University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint taries, opinions and letters are the views of Mary's College. It does not necessarily their authors. Column space is available to 
Sports Editor ..............................Michael Ortman Controller ............................................. ]oe Mulflur reflect the policies of the administration of all members of the community, and the free Features Editor..........................Anthony Walton Advertising Manager .......................Chris Owen either institution. The news is reported as expression of varying opinions on campus, SMC Executive Editor...........Mary Agnes Carey Production Manager ...................Michael Monk accurately and as objectively as possible. through letters, is encouraged. SMC News Editor...................... Cathy Domanico Circulation Manager .............Tom MacLennan 
Wednesday, October 14, 1981 -page 7
Sports Brie/§ 

by The Ohserz•er and Tht' A.r.roualed Prl'.fr Tim Koegel will be: the: guest tonight on Speaking uf Sports on WSND ( 640 AM). Listeners can talk to Tim on the: air by calling 6400 or 742S. The: hour-long show. which is hosted by Bill The WOmen's SOftball ClUb of Notre Dame: will Lanc:sey and Dave Dziedzic, begins at 12 midnight. -The Obseruer hold a mandatory mc:c:ting for old and nc:w mc:mbc:rs on today at 
server. II ts the responstbtltty of each parttctpant to contact hts or her opponent and set up a match m 
7: I') p.m. in the: Brc:c:n-Phillips party room. Anyone: who cannot at­
each round Results of matches must be turned tn to 
the tnterhall offtce (C-2 ACC) before noon on the
tend must contact one: of the: offici:"rs wday. For more information, Basketball tryouts for the: Notre: Dame: men's varsity 
tc:am arc: schc:dulc:d for tommorrow afternoon at the: auxiliary gym­
call Karc:n Alig at 740 I. -The Observer nasium in the ACC. -The Obsert,er 
See SPORTSBOARD, page 8 ' 
The Observer will accept classifieds Mon­day through Friday, 10 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. However. classifieds to appear in the next issue must be received by 3 p.m. the business day prior to Insertion. All classtfieds must be prepaid. 
either in person or through the r1ail. 
Classifieds 
NOTICES ] 

USED BOOK SHOP HOURS WED SAT, SUN 9 to 7 CASPERSON. t 303 BUCHANAN RO , NILES 
OVERSEAS JOBS -Summer/year round Europe, S Amer Australia. Asta Allltelds. $500·$1200 monthly. Stghtsee· tng. Free tnlo Wnte IJC. Box 52-IN·4. 
Corona Del Mar. CA 92625 
Need nders to ATLANTA--Leave Sal · back lor game. x272·9913 
Wtll YOU be stuck on these God-forsaken platns of North Central lndtana dunng break? II so. check out FISHER FOOD SALES lor cheap eats tn an atmosphere thai can best be descrtbed as la~rly samtary PIZZA. sandwtches. chtps. and soda Open lor your dtntng pleasure 5­6pm and t 0·11 .30pm all dunng fall break 
28 Law & 5 MBA schools wtll be at the Pre· Law Soctety·s Caravan TODAY tn the library concourse from 11 30 to 4 
I NEED A RICE TO PHILADELPHIA AREA CALL JOHN x3458 
ILOST/FOUNEj 
LOST. a two-tone blue sweat 1acket Reward. call Vtnce x1238 
d. 
LOST. Brown umbrella tn room 366 of Old Chern Bldg. Call288-9322 
FOUND. Hat last Sat .. Oct. 3, dunng play at O'Laughlin Theatre at St. Mary's. Call 288-9322 If tf's yours 
FOUND. Lady s watch tn front of Badin Hall Call 8593 and tdenltly. 
TO WHOMEVER FOUND MY CHECK· BOOK I HAVE STOPPED ALL THE CHECKS; THEY ARE NO GOOD TO YOU. MY NAME IS ON THE CHECKS. YOU KNOW WHO I AM. PLEASE EITHER RETURN THE CHECKBOOK TO THE NOTRE DAME CREDIT UNION OR CALL ME AT 287-7157 
LOST A GREEN 60/40 PARKA SHELL JACKET. IT IS FOREST GREEN. HAS A HOOD. AND IS MONOGRAMMED SET' ON THE BREAST POCKET. IT WAS A GIFT FROM MYLATE SISTER AND HAS GREAT SENTIMENTAL AS WELL AS PRACTICAL VALUE IF YOU HAVE IN· FORMATION ABOUT THE JACKET. OR IF YOU HAVE THE JACKET. PLEASE CALL SCOIT AT 287-7157 NO QUES­TIONS ASKED! 
I jUSt want to thank the person who took my jacket from the dtntng hall and lned.lo selltt back to me I was willing to pay you lor n, bul twtce you never showed up. If you are the same person who called up and dtd the same lhtng to the g1rl with the 
purse and the ktd wilh the sweatshirt. I thtnk thai I speak for all of us in saytng that you are probably the lowest form of hie that can exist. 
I don't understand whal you are gotng to do wolh a Jacket like mone. because you certatnly can·t wear tl and nobody else but me would buy rt from you. If you sttll have my 1acket or any of the other stuff. I hope that you wtll senously constder gtvtng it to Lost and Found. or arrangtng to return 11. I can't understand how playtng games like lhts turns you on. but your cheap lhnlls 
have come at the expense of others I hope that soon you wtll stl back and tust thtnk about how low you have been stoop­tng. You are nothtng but a loser 
FOUND. Camera tnpod. tdenltly & clatm. call6614 
lost Man s wnstwalch. between Infirmary & Hayes-Healy Has great senltmental value Lost Fn 10/9 Please call Oan x3402 
I WILL BUY back my GREEN DOW!'< VEST from whoever stole tl outol 0 Sha<; on 9/21 NO quest tons asked Its old and 
ralty but tl s the only thtng I got ltll DEC break PLEASE call AI. x6 760 
Found A black pop-up umbrella on off­campus shuttle 1n early Oct Owner hves tn Campus Vtew To clatm. call Mark late at233-2969 One bedroom. lurntshed apl near NO Newly decorated. pnvate entrance, $ t 65/month Call255-8505 or 259-4629 
Furntshed House..Ntce area.. Walk to NO.. Jtm 3234 
ROOMMATE WANTED NOTRE DAME AVE. APTS.. HAVE YOUR OWN ROOM! ON BUS ROUTE FIVE BLOCKS FROM CAMPUS KITCHEN. BAR. CABLE TV BE FIRST TO CALL 288-4170 N ITES 
Male roommate needed for lurntshed apartment near NO. $t 10/month Ultliltes Patd 287-5469 
ROOMATE WANTED to share a com­pletely furntshed apt. close to campus ONLY $105 I month! call Dave al 283· 1169 anyttme a«er 11.00 p m 
Share house tn walktng dtslance from NO wtth 3 grad stud. 1 bedroom 75$ Call 288-0431 

WANTED 
WA.\ITEO. GAs FOR ANY HOME GAMES. CALL PAUL 8509 
need nde to COLORADO Spnngs. WILL SHARE USUALCall MARK 288-5208 
Rtders needed anywhere along 1-57 to Memphts area for break. Please call Laura at6896 a.s.a.p 
HELP! HELP! HELP! MUST get G.A ·s and Student fix for GA TECH game!! PLEASE call Stephanie at 4347 to get top dollar lor your ltxl! 
I need a ride to west of St. Louts (or St. Louts) lor Oct break. Please call Mary at 
4873 SMC 

NEEDED. Law student wrth tnsurance license to market ABA/LSD group tn­surance plan. 
Need nde to Minneapolis lor October break. Like to return lor USC game. Wtll share expenses. Call1338. 
Need nde to CANTON or CLEVELAND lor break. Please call Cindy at2917. 
I NEED 3 to 5 S. CAL STUDENT TIX OR 
G.A. SCALL MIKE AT2197 
HELPII NEED A RIDE TO ST. LOUIS OCT. 16 Wtlt share usual John 3175 
Need nde to NORTH JERSEY for break Share $$ Brian 3648 
Need nde TO and FROM Connellsville. Pa for Oct. break. Can share all costs. Can leave only Oct. 16or late3. Call Tom at 1465 
EMPIRE STATE BOUND??? 
NEED A RIDE TO SYRACUSE OR 
WATERTOWN AREA 

WILL SHARE USUAL 
CALL ANDY 288·1890 OR LEAVE 
MESSAGE 

IS ANYONE DRIVING BACK TO AR· LING TON HEIGHTS ON FRIDAY AFTER 1 PM ? I NEED A RIDE AND WILL SHARE USUAL CALL 6833. ASK FOR ANN MARIE 
RIDER NEEDED TO SHARE EXP. TO PA VIA TRNPKE. THURS TO THURS. CALL3705 
Rtde needed for 2 to Dayton or area. Wtll share cost Call Gene or Dan at234·85 t 8 
Need nde west on 1-80 to Iowa ctty on Fnday call Btll3160 
Yes. folks. I need a nde back to NO from Lafayette Must be back by one on the 23rd 8602 
FOR SALE 
ATIENTION 
PHOTOGRAPHERS FOR SALE: An Omega B-22 enlarger wtlh copy stand and 36' column Thts ts tust the condenser head and copy stand. No lens tncluded. but head takes any standard Omega enlarger lens Pnce. $25 Call John Macor al 1715 or 8661 and leave your name and number I have one ltcket lor lhe October break Washtngton D.C. bus for sale. Wtll negottate a pnce. Call Jeff al 1764 or Jim al4618 
USC studenlltcket. F~rst reasonable offer Call Murph at 233-2969 
TICKETS 
Penn St. ltcket wanted please call Donna at6771 
NEED TIX TO PSU GAME! WILL PAY BIG BUCKS! CALL OAN AT 8428 
Wtll pay top $ lor NO-USC game ltckets Need 6 ttckels. best localton avatlable Please call collect (714) 835-6505 ask lor Tony Herenda or Judt Carlos 
neea three GAs lor USC ... please help call3691 
NEED 2 GA TIX TO USC WILL PAY WELL CALL RAY AT 837t 
PENN ST. TIX. WILL BUY PSU TIX OR TRADE FOR USC GAS. BILL 80 212­759-4846 
USC GA tx needed call mtke 3686 
PROMINENT CHICAGO STOCK­BROKER NEEDS 10 USC GAS WILL PAY SUBSTANTIAL PREMIUM CALL 312·621-3799 COLLECT. ASK FOR TEO. 
THE SMITH HILL GANG needs ltckets lor Notre Oame·s date with the Trojans. Con­Siderable money wtll be spent to watch the show. Call Mtke 0. at 8896 and earn some easy bucks. 
OESPERATEL Y NEED USC TIX. CALL PETE 233-8091 
NEED GA TX FOR FSU OR ANY GAME. CALL «36 SMC. 
NEEDED. 4 USC GAs tn order to save my ass. Call Mick 1178 
Need USC and Navy GAs urgently. Call Chris 1222 
NEED SEVERAL GAS FOR GEORGIA TECH!!! MAKE SOME OOMERS HAPPY -CALL 1 OOil 
HELPIII DESPERATELY NEED GA'S FOR FLA STATE AND USC. CALL 4687 SMC. 
HELPII Homestck g~rl wants to see parents who won·t come unless they get 
G. A. ltx lor Navy. Will pay$$. Call Kathy 6997 
DESPERATE for 3 GA. USC tix. Call MARK 1074 
We need Navy GA. s Call Mtke (1175) or Chris (1178) 
Need fix lor Penn St. or fat man wtll sit on me. Call Bnan at 1777 
HELPI In dire need of 4 USC student or GAs and 2 NAVY GAs ttx Call Malt at 1652 
Need ltx lor Penn St. or fat man wtll stl on me Call Bnan at 1777. 
HELP! In d1re need of 4 USC student or GAs and 2 NAVY GAs fix. Call Matt at t652 
HELP!! I need PSU ltckets. Wtll pay bucks and/or trade lor a nde out to PSU Call Fran dl4385 
NEEDED I AI least 4 USC GA ttckets lor my family Please contact Colleen at 4 t­4408. 
WANTED: 2 GA. ltx. for Navy football game Call Frank at 1403 
Need 2 GA. TECH GA.'s. Wtll trade 2 NAVYGAsorpayCASH ALEX--X6931 NEED 4 GA USC TIX. CALL JOHN t001 
Need 2 GA ttx lor USC-call 1625 

I need USC ttckets (student or GA) lor out­of-town fnends!! Please call Jane at 66t4 or 7704 (or 277-1079 a«er 9 PM)'!! 
DESPERATELY NEEO TWO USC STU· DENT TIX-BROTHERS WILL KILL IF THEY OONT SEE GAME CALL CHRIS AT 1678 
WILL PAY UP TO $50-60 (OR MORE) FOR USC GAS. CALL CHRIS t222 BEFORE BREAK PLEASE!! 
DESPERATELY NEEO 2 NAVY GAs CAN TRADE 2 USC STUDENT TIX CALL JIM AT t 067 
Wtll trade any student ttx. or pay $lor one or two GEORGIA TECH GAs Call Sue 
373t  
SELLING (USC.Navy.Georgta Call Mary X6798  S tudent Tech)  Best  Ttx Offer  

DESPERATE lor 2 or 4 GA USC tickets Call Mtke at 1435 
I NEED 2 OR 3 USC TICKETS CALL JASPER AT 1744 OR t 748 
DEATH OR GLORY IS JUSI another story. but I'll be tnto the former tl I don t gel one (JUS! ONE) GA ltcket lor the USC scrap Call T J at 272-8454 tf you have one to gel ndof. 
LARGE AMOUNTS PAID FOR PENN ST GAs. CALL ERIC 8580 AND NAME THE PRICE. 
NEED MANY USC STUDENT TICKETS CALL ANNE 41-5773 
NEED 2 GAS FOR NAVY. WILL PAY$$. CALL JIM 8671 
USC GAs lor sale call Kevin at 8191 now. 
NEED 2 GA TIX FOR USC $$$ CALL X8391 
DESPERATELY NEED USC GAS CALL JOHN 1764 
FOR SALE. USC STUDENT TICKET CALL JOHN 8467 
I need USC tlcketalll Call Brian 1111073. $$$$ 
WILL PAY $20-25 FOR USC STUDENTS TX. CALL 277-6108. 
HAVE6USC/NOGAS CALL TRISH4t­4875 
NEED SEVERAL NAVY GAS!I CALL MARK(6837) OR TIM(7986) 
NEED USC GA TICKETS. PLEASE CALL TONY AT 3588 
BIG TIME HELP NEEDED. I fUSI need ONE USC GA. I got the money tf you got the ticket. Fran 4385 
Parents need one (1) GA NAVY ltcket lor my little brat brother CALL Ken at 8600. 
WANTED USC GA'S, CALL PAUL 8509 
desparately need 2 usc ltckets. call Jtm 1650. 
I need 3GAs for Georgta Tech. Call Larry HI09 . 
MY PARENTS WILL SHIP ME OUT TO SEA IF I OONT FIND NAVYTIX! MONEY NO OBJECTI PLEASE HELP · CALL CAROLAT41-5108 

OARBYS PLACE IS OPEN TONIGHT FROM MIDNIGHT UNTIL THREE IN THE LAFORTUNE BASEMENT. 
I need a ride to Mtlwaukee on Fnday. Oct 16 (affer my 2mwl class) and back somettne Sunday Will share expenses Without nde. w1ll miss good tnend's wed­ding. 
Please call Oe~rdre at 8013. ASAP­
call tn morntng before 10. lm hard to 
reach. so won't be upset by call at 3 a.m. tf 
11 gets me to weddtng. 
OLIAASIB 
BAGPIPES Whal are they? How do they work? What is worn under the ktif? Should Notre Dame have a ptpe band? For the an·swers to these and other questtons (or tl you jUSt want to learn to play the bagp1pe--no mus1cal expenence re­qwred). come to a meeltng October 27 at 
6.30 PM tn Fttzpatnck 356 Expenenced DRUMMERS tnterested tn a demonstra­tion of the tnlncate style of ptpe band drummmg are,also encouraged to attend If rnterested tn e1ther p1pmg or drumm1ng bul unable to be at thts sesston. call8878 
THE SSAB LIVES!! DETAILS TO FOL­LOW 

NEED RIDERS comtng back to NO from 
MINNESOTA 8148  on  Oct  26  Call  Terese  
DeMar. N1ce waves!  12-24. Kwtckt  

PS Word of the week--SLEEP (alone) 
HEY JUNIORS 
TICKETS FOR HAYRIDE ON FRIOAY OCT 30 ARE ON SALE THIS WED AND THURS. OCT 14& 15. FROM7T09PM ON MAIN FLOOR OF LAFORTUNE GET YOURS NOW!!! 
'SIMON' 
the touching story of a Father and his 
mouse... 
FOR EXPERT HAIRSTL YING AND A GOOD TIME. VISIT 318 WALSH OR CALL JOAN AT 2278. MEN ONLY 
EXPERIENCED TYPIST-Resumes $12; term paperslthests $25: mtsc. 75 cents page or ask lor quote 233·5861 affer 6 p.m. 
OK. FRED! Wtntlred Fttzgerald s 20th B· day ts TODAY Wtsh her a BON AN· NIVERSAIRE! 
GERII. 
WHEN WILL YOU STAY FOR A WHOLE PANGBORN PARTY? YOU DON T KNOW WHAT YOU MIGHT BE MISSING! 
AN ADMIRING BIO STUDENT 
ATTENTION DOMERS. Although we may be two days late. Now s the t1me to celebrate! Oozes btrthday ts two days past But here s your chance so ac11ast1 For a real occas1on to break out the 
booze Call and stng Happy Birthday· to Ooze! And for a birthday ktss to send you stratghllo heaven. Call her SMC number 51 07!! 
O.B & BB 
To all the people who made my 21 sl btrthday the best tl could ever be Thanks lor the surprtse party Love to you all! Peggy Newman 
To Tom Jensen and the Santor Bar crew· Thank you for makmg my mghl so spec1af Love. Peggy Newman 
ToJtm. You re the best. Babe! All my love. Peggy 
ATTENTION -· those laktng I he PITTS· BURGH CLUB BUS--the buses wtllleave N.O onFRIOAY.OCT 16ATEXACTLY 
5:00 P M . loadtng wtll take place at the CENTER FOR CONTINUING EOUCA· TION (CEE). One bus wtll return to N.O on FRIDAY. OCT 23 and the other wtll return on SUNDAY. OCT. 25. EACH BUS 
.VILL LEAVE PITTSBUGH EXACTLY AT 
1.00 PM. FROM THE GREYHOUND TERMINAL DOWNTOWN ON THEIR RESPECTIVE OATES. QUESTIONS?-· CALL IKE AT 1581 
FOR ALL THOSE TAKING THE PITSBURGH BUS --THERE WILL BE A BUS COMING BACK TO N 0. ON SUN· DAY. OCT. 25 AS WELL AS THE BUS RETURNING ON FRIDAY, OCT 23 EACH BUS WILL LEAVE PITTSBURGH AT 1.00 PM FROM THE GREYHOUND TERMINAL DOWNTOWN ON THEIR RESPECTIVE DAYS 
BILL KATZENBERGER --HAVE YOU HAD ANY CHOCOLATE CHIP ICE CREAM LATELY? 
ROBERTA, I WAS JUST THINKING OF YOU GOOD 
TThe KTS question of the week· Would you let your stster go out wtlh Mtke Zer­nlck? 
Mary. explettve deleted Zern 

01 course  When? Mary  
LAW  &  MBA  SCHOOL  CARAVAN..  
TODAY  11 30  TO  4·-LIBRARY  

CONCOURSE 
Dear DONNA WEXLER at Mount 

Holyoke College Look out and BEWARE of Oct 21! Meel the boys; Get Ready and gel psyched! LOVE GENERAL NEWTS. FITZ. STEP. POPS. FRANK BUFFER. CHIPPY and 
MURPH 

MIM 
Our conversations are really deep 
You as a spectallnend I hope lo keep 
II you lhtnk you re getltng I ned 
Don I you worry Ill be by your stde 
I m trytng to make thts sound Iunny 
But Ill have to stop. 
I m runn1ng out of money GJ 
HEY FAT CHICKS' ICE CREAM SOCIAL AT THE HUDDLE TONIGHT BE THERE STAY FAT 
ATTENTION ALL BEAUTIFUL. FUN· LOVING FRESHWOMEN DAVE ROBINSON IS CELEBRATING HIS 18TH BIRTHOAY ..AWAY FROM HOME CALL 8843 TO WISH HIM A HAPPY ONE 
THANKS JIM RIGALI FOR SUCH A GREAT SORIN PEP RALLY 
SCOTTS. HIGHSCHOOL DATES ARENT SO BAD. ARE THEY? COLO HANDS 

Congratulalton to the Houston ASTROS and Nolan Ryan for a great season .from your NO Booster Club 
Wtll the MT go lor 60 peicent? Ask E&TPG s 
Walton Press. Amenca s newest Avant Garde publtshtng firm. tS now accepltng manuscnpts It slirst book. Is AI Hirt really necessary? wtll appear shortly Pantc now and avotd the rush !II 
To Fntz. Rtch and Mtke P Nancy N ts watttng for you woth bated breath and rovtng hands. All you need to do ts name lhe ltme and place. As Nancy says. The more the merner!' 
J.FRtGS 
COME ONE COME ALL! HANG JEB CASHIN IN EFFIGY PARTY Date: Oct. 22 Pnce: $24.95 Pnce tncludes Food, Beverages and round tnp bus fare to Ef­figy, Ind. Don't mtss 11. 
Dear Letgh. 
II you need any help you can count on usl We wtll be lhtnktng of you over the break and praytng that everythmg will be all nght 
We love you. 
Carol and Mary P S. Get back on your feet agatn soon. so you can cheer J.S.to vtclory 

BREAK THE FLORIDA HABIT--SKI COLORADO THIS SPRING!! tnforma­ttonal meetmg Wed. Oct.14 at 7pm in the Flanner Pit. II unable to allend and you would like more info. call Greg 233-2274 aher 10pm. 
DIGGER DIGGER DIGGER LEWIS PRESENTS DIGGER PHELPS 
7:30 TONITE-LEWIS REC ROOM BE THERE-ALOHA!I! 
Male volunteer needed lor 22 yr. old cerebral palsy student to asstsl on-Mon­days & Wednesdays at Holy Cross Jr. College from 12:30-3 t5 p.m. call V.S.O. x7308 
Volunteers needed Halloween week to asstsl JAYCEES tn chanty lund· ratser. Haunted house fun for ktds. Be a ktd agatn! Call V.S.O. x7308 
WHO ARE YOU? LAURA D.tn P E 
To all N.D. men 
A certatn person has satd thai she ts tealous of her roommate who gets so much mail. So break out a pen and wnte to her. Tnc1a Burggraf P.O. Box 3210, Georgetown U. Wash D.C. 20057 
_,.__ 

-l 
--... 

J 
To LAURA 0. IN PE-PULL!! I!! Ry.
LUCK ON YOUR MIDTERM. AND HAVE 

I have one USC sludenlltcket. Sold to the Have tntercepted matltntended for you. 
FOR RENT 

A GREAT BREAK htghest btdder Call Kare y at 4571 . PART TIME OPPORTUNITY LOVE KEN Am holdtng for ransom of unusual nature
Gotng home over Fall Break? Wtll pay many btlls for your USC student ltcket. 
AVAILABLE. CALL ANYTIME AFTER 5 Saw letter in Crier by Silva' -what a mce FOR SALE MY REMAINING STUDENT p.n). MONDAY-FRIDAY. 259·0019. ASK THE KTS PROUOL Y ANNOUNCES THE guy. Do you thtnk he ever found the in­
Call Fttz x 3569. Student houstng. clean. sale. laundry. 
FOOTBALL TICKETS BEST OFFER FOR JERRY KWIATKOWSKI (QUIT­struments we took?
BEGINNING OF THE 1981 PURGE CALL 232-8301 BEFORE FRIDAY ASK MEGA-BUCKS!!! I need 2 NAVY GAS COW-SKI). The Systemktlchen. rated supenor $1 00 tncludes all SEASON.
291-1405 FOR MARY KAY Leave message lor PAUL at 7342. 

The Observer -Sports Wednesday, October 14, 1981 -page 8 
• • • Apathy 

continuedfrom page 12 
down," said an emotional coach. The response from the 1,000-or-so students in attendance was loud and clear: "NO!!!" 
The main man in 1956 was Hornung. "He did it all," Thurin remembers. "He played quarterback or halfback, he did all the kicking and saved more touch­downs at safety than anyone I've ever seen." And for·his efforts during that dismal season, Hornung won the Heisman Trophy. 
"It just wasn't our year," he recalls of the '56 cam­paign. "It got to a point where completing a pass made the day for the fans. We got to appreciate the little things. And the students remained true to the team. They came ready to play, and we came ready to sup­port." 
But now the pro football mentality runs rampant. Per­fection is a must, and "I paid for my ticket-I'll do what I want," becomes the philosophy. 
"I'm a little amazed at the impatience,"Thurin says of the young Faust era. "But maybe having a year like this won't be all that bad. It helps people learn that things aren't always going to go as you planned or expected. Dissappointment is part of the real world." 
Literally all the preseason polls listed Notre Dame in their Top 20. In fact, only Playboy ranked the Irish lower than eighth. Everyone was wrong. No doubt this Notre Dame team is better than it has showed, but then perhaps it's not quite as potentially good as the prog­nosticators thought. 
With the basketball season just around the corner, it's important to remember that Digger Phelps lost Orlando Woolridge, Kelly Tripucka and Tracy Jackson, not to mention Stan Wilcox, Gil Salinas and Joe Kleine. Ex­pectations will not be high. In fact, with the schedule John Paxson & Co. have facing them, 20 wins and an NCAA tournament bid will not come easily. Conse­quently, wins over UCLA, Indiana or Kentucky will be viewed as mini-miracles. 
Similarly, if Irish football fans lower their expecta­tions for the remaining six games of the football season, they just might relieve their frustration a little, and en­joy things a lot. 
Sportsboard 
Captain Stoney Fer/mann and the Irish linksters prepare for their Spring season after narrowly being defeated by Purdue, 361­362, in the ND Fall Invitational. (photo by Tom O'Brien) 
• 
Guerrero followed with his homer
continuedfrom page 12 

to left off relit:ver Jeff Reardon who at that point and retired Tony Armas n:placed starter Bill Gullickson. and pinch hitter Wayne Gross on Scioscia then belted his shot to right-
grounders to second base. 
LOS ANGELES (AP) -Ron Cey, who hadn't swung at bat in a game in rr:ore than a month, lined a run­scoring double, and Pedro Guerrero and Mike Scioscia hit consecutive eighth-inning home runs yesterday to back Burt Hooton and the Los An­geles Dodgers to a 5-1 victory over the Montreal Expos in the first game of their National League Champion­ship series. 
Both eighth-inning homers came after two were out. Cey started the uprisin with a single to center and 

center. The second inning double was 
Cey's fifth since he sustained a broken bone in his left forearm when he was hit by a pitch from San Francisco's Tom Griffin on Sept. 8. 
On Monday, Dodgers' manager Tom Lasorda announced that his third baseman was fit for duty. Cey responded with a double that started a two-run hurst, continuing a four-year Dodger Stadium jinx for the Expos. 
The Expos have won just twice in their last 20 appearances at Dodger Stadium; a lack of timely hitting yes-
College
-
Niglit 

THURSDAY, OCTOBER 15 4pm to 9pm 

Haircuts specially priced -$6 (with style $8) Come take advantage of this special student offer. (Must show student I. D.) Refreshments -Door Prizes 
R9GIS HAIRSTYLISTS 
UNIVERSITY PARK MALL 272-1168 
continuedftom page 7 
followmg Tuesday Fa1lure tb report results Will mean disqualificatton of both participants 
Men's Open Singles (Semifinals) 

Damtan Marshall (1509) v. Donald Zelazny (1761) 
Kevtn O'Brten (1767) v Tom Walcott (1646) 
Women's Singles (Final) 

Sue Gordon (8027) v. Loutsa Demello (1261) 
• • Playoffs 
terday spoiled the Expos' first League Championship outing. 
They were shut out until the ninth inning when they scored their lone run on doubles by Gary Carter and Larry Parrish. That was only the fourth run off Dodgers pitching in the last 51 innings. Steve Howe replaced reliever Bob Welch at that point, and gave up only a single to Warren Cromartie before the game ended on the Dodgers' fourth double play. 
Tht: Expos had baserunners in 
. each ofthe first eight innings against Hooton, hut the 3 l -year-old right­hander worked out of each and every jam with the help of three double plays and fine fielding. 
Hooton allowed six hits before he was relieved in the eighth inning by Welch. A key to Hooton's success had been his ability to keep the fleet rookie Tim Raines off base, but when Raines singled with one out in the eighth, Lasorda went to Welch. 
Game Two of the best-of-five series is scheduled for tonight at Dodger Stadium where the Expos now have lost 10 in a row and the teams fly to Montreal tomorrow with the series scheduled to resume Friday. 
.............................................................................................,......., 
~  Student Union Lotteries '  
~  ~  
~ I  Thursda_y Oct. 15  7PM in the Nazz' ~  
~ J  for  GENESIS  Nov 17 $9/$10  ' ~  
~  ~  
~  immediate~y followin!(  ~  
~ ;  for ROD NEY DANGERFIELD  'I  

i Nov 6 ~ ~ ~ ~ Bring ID 's ~ l...............................................................................................~ 
Mixed Doubles (Semifinals) Straub (6931)/Swtectak (4633) v. Runger ( 4549)/Schmtdt (3352) Demello /Clark -bye Grad-Fac Women's Singles (Final) Dorothy Pashley (287-6738) v. Sally Oerengoskt (277-7325) Round-Robin Grad-Faculty Mixed Doubles 
Roberts/Phtlltps (282-1029) v. Pashley 
(6584)/Freirer (287-6738) Roberts/Phtllips v. 
Jones (8827)/Weeks (7385) 

Jones (8827)/Weeks (7385) v. 
Aperghts/Derengoskt (277-7325) 

{BOXING 
BOXING CLUB NOVICE TOURNAMENT Yesterday's Results 
134 Pounds 
Sven Johnson def. Raul Motta. split dectston 

Tony Bonacct def. Greg Perenich, unanimous dect­ston 
142 Pounds John Klee def. Pat Serge. split decision Mtke Schterl def. Frank Manen, spltt dectston 

145 Pounds Chtp Beatty def. Chns Dema10ribus, unanrmous decrsron Beresford Clarke def Randy McNally. unantmous decrsron 
148 Pounds 
Jrm Smrth def. Tony Scordo. unanrmous decrsron 

John McGarrtty def. Bob Dtstato. unantmous dect­sron 
150 Pounds 

Kevrn Brnger de f. Ben Suplrck, unanrmous decrsron 
Mtke Crowley def Gary Strtckland. unantmous decrsion 
155 Pounds Steve Cramer def Mrke Latz, unanrmous decrsron Chns Soh a def Pete Davrs, unanrmous decrsron 
156 Pounds Tom Luzrnskl def. Brll Hogan, unanimous decrsron Bnan Nelson def. Joe Giglra, unanrmous decisron 
160 Pounds Greg Devorusney def Mtke Smtth, unantmous dec1son Don Cugrnt def. Brad Boettcher, unanrmous decison 
165 Pounds John Runger def. John Fulginity, unantmous dect­sron Jeff Messe def. Marty MaStas. split dectsion 
169 Pounds Dan Watzke def. John Foley, unanimous decisron Jay Casalduc def. AI Gnoza, unanrmous deCISIOn 
172 Pounds Bob Mantreda def Dave Dacko. unanrmous cfecr­sron Pat Maloney det Angelo Penna. spirt decrsion 
180 Pounds Dennis Cronk def. Andy Gnmes. unantmous deCISIOn Dave Condon def. Paul Burger, unantmous dect­ston 
The winners of each of yesterday's ftghts tn each wetght classificatton will patr off tn tomorrow's ftnals. The finals are scheduled to begin at 7 p.m tn the boxtng room of the ACC Fieldhouse. 
·····:rBASEBALL 
LEAGUE CHAMPIONSHIP PLAYOFFS (Best-of-five) Yesterday's results American League 
New York 3, Oakland 1 (Yankees lead series. 1-0) National League Los Angeles 5, Montreal 1 (Dodgers lead senes. 1-0) 
Today's Games Oakland at New York Montreal at Los Angeles. n 


Indiana AIAW Division II State Championships Championship Round 
Singles No. 1 -Ltsa LaFratta (ND) def Keely Porter (Evansvtlle) 6-2. 6-3. No. 2 -Ltnda Hoyer (NO) def Dtane Cook (Franklin) 6-4, 4-6, 7-5. No. 3 -Pam Ftshette (ND) def. Janet Muston (Franklin) 6-0, 6-0 · No. 4 -Dtan~ Mtller (Butler) def. Carol Shukts (ND) 4-6. 7-5, 6-3. No. 5 -Laura Lee (NO) def. Ruth Paurazas (Evansvtlle) 6-0, 6-1. No. 6 -Ltsa Gleason (ND) def. Jenntf Tyson (Butler) 6-3, 6-1. Doubles No. 1 -Hoyer/LaFratta (ND) def. Mary Kay Thanos/Dtane Cook (Franklin) 6-7. 6-4. 6-2 No. 2 -Ftshette/Ttna Stephan (NO) def. Dtane Miller/Elizabeth Rettets (Butler) 6-4, 6-3. No. 3 -Lee/Camtlle Cooper (ND) def Lee Ann Hadley/Kelly McKay (Franklin) 6-1. 6-2. 
Final Standings 
I. Notre Dame 35 
2. Butler Untverstty 20 Franklin College 20 
4. 
Evansvtlle Untverstty 10 

5. 
I not ana Central Untverstty 9 · 6. Valparaiso University 7 


7. 
lndtana State Untversity 3 

8. 
St. Joseph College 1 

9. 
Indiana Untversity·South East 0 


WOMEN STENNIS ND 9. Satnt Mary's 0 


NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE 
NATIONAL CONFERENCE 
East 

w L T Pet. PF PA Phtladelphta 6 0 01 000 140 67 Dallas 4 2 0 .667 140 123 NY. Gtants 3 3 0 500 105 97 St. Louts 2 4 0 .333 108 151 Washtngton 5 0 167 101 156 Central 
Mmnesota  4  2  0  .667  136 146  
Tampa Bay  4  2  0  667  117  90  
Detrott  2  4  0  333  118  126  
Green Bay  2  4  0  333  106  140  
Chtcago  5  0  167 89  133  
West  
Los Angeles  4  2  0  .667  160 131  
San Franctsco  4  2  0  .667  157 ·120  
Atlanta  3  3  0  500 15:>  t 15  
Ne:w Orleans  5  0  .167  64  136  

AMERICAN CONFERENCE 
East 

w L T Pet. PF PA Mtamt 1 1 750 142 114 Buffalo 4 2 0 667 158 88 NY Jets 2 3 1 417 129 169 New England 5 0 167 130 149 Balttmore 5 0 167 106 186 
Central Ctnctnnatt 4 2 0 .667 153 131 Ptttsburgh 4 2 0 667 141' 111 Houston 4 2 0 .667 115 99 Cleveland 2 4 0 333 88 127 West Denver 5 0 .833 133 75 San Otego 4 2 0 667 193 153 KansasCtty 4 2 0 .667 151 132 Oakland 2 4 0 .333 63 89 Seattle 5 0 .167 85 136 

The Observer -Sports Wednesday, Octoher 14, 1981 -page 9 
Charley Hustle refuses to quit 
DAYTON (AP)-Pete Rose says playing first hast· ha~ at.h.kd years to his hasehall can.:n. and he· may ask for an extended contract with the Philadelphia Philli<:~. Hut the· Cincin­nati native still wonders why the Reds didn't make a first haseman out of him. 
''I'm swinging rhc hat as wdl as ever," Rose told lbe /Ja}•ton jour­IIUIIIerald. "lied the league in hits. I know I can go on for two or three years at first hast.·. 
"I like ir better th;m any position I've every playe·d. You're always in the game. You have· to hold runners on. and lean talk 10 my friends when 
• • • Itetns 
continw!dfrom /Jill:W 12 
,.idol). lksit.k~ Florida State. only l'S( ( 19.; I ), Purdue ( llJ 33 ), Texas ( I <J 5·1 ), Iowa ( 19-Hl ), Michigan ( I 9·12 ), :'11h~ouri ( 1972) and Clc:m­~on ( 1979) have t·merged vic­wrious from their t1rst t'ncountc.:r with the Irish in Notre.: Dame.: .-,t;tdium. 
<iOI.DEN YEARS -t:SC credits its I'):H foot hall team with starting the traditton of last-second victories (funny, I thought that was Notre Dame's spt-cialty ). Tlw 1931 Trojans wiped out a 1-t-0 Irish kad here after thnT period~ ami st.·ort·d all 16 of their point~ in the fourth quarter to nip tht.· lri~h 16-l·i. In honor of that t·n·nt, tht· ~urviving member~ ofthat 
I'mjan ll'am arc !lying to South Bend tor t ht· game next Wt'l'kt.•nd and will he pn·st.·nted at lulftime. 
According 10 ;I news release from "The.: Sports I>e·por" in CoMa Mesa, <:aI, that J ')51 game markt·d "the l)l'ginningoftht· greatest tradtiun in colkgc.: t(Jtllhall." 
llo-hum. 
Til o\T OTIIER SPORT-lri~h bas­ketball coach Digger Phelps upl·ns up the I')HI -H2 hasl'lhall season \\ ith hi~ nr~t prauicc; tomorrow. l'hl'ip~ ha~ cho~en the slogan "Tht.· Hat Pad; is Back" w characterize this \Tar·~ tt.'i1111. l'hdp~ choM' the name.: lrom the old movie. "<kean II," in wluch cx·Army buddic~. portrayed h1 Dean \lartin, Frank Sinatra, Joey Bishop, Pl'tl·r l.;~wtllrd and ~ammy l>.tvi~.Jr .. pull off a th!'ft in Las Vegas hotd!'> on :'l:cw Year·~ Eve.:. 
~iJJL't' Digger's "Pack" lt.'ature~ a group of takntnl, hut t(lr the most part untt.·stnl undcrclassmc.:n, he thought that tht· slllgan befit the.: 'IIIWd. 
According to Phelps, "We're likl· the Hat Pack because nobody thinks we can win .20 gaml·s and go to the.: NCAA tournament again. That's !Inc -I hope the tt·am~ Wt.' play fed that way, too -ht'e<IU!'>e all season long we'rt· going to snc.:ak up and surprise.: peopk. Wt· may he a bunck of un· known~ hut wl·'n· going to pull it off -tht· Hat Pack is Back!" 
WIIO WAS THAT MASKED MAN? -Junior guard John Pax~on will be.: tl:aturt·d un the covn ofthe 19H l-H2 
st,·et•t c:~ Smith'.~ Ruskl'tiJall Year­{)()ok. which h due on the nt·ws!'>tand~ wnhin the wcl'k. Paxson wa~ choM·n fi1r the magazine'~ IO­man All-America team. and is featured on the cover along with l '( .lA ~tamlllut Hod Fo~tl·r. 
lntornwd that hl· shared the cover with Rod Foster. Pax~on remarked, "I hopt.· Rnd i~n't driving past me.:." 
II< >I.DIN(; 01 T -Last year's ~lam-and-jam specialist, Orlando Woolridge. ha!'> still not come to terms with the· Chk.tgo Bulls, who tabbed the.: ().l) forward in the firM round of last ycar·s :">JBA draft. A 19H I graduatt· \vho avnagnl 1-1.-t point~ pt.·r game last ~eason, Wool­ridge and agl'lll Larry l'ki!'>her arc 
reporte·dly  holding  olll  for  a  
s.~OO,OOO  contran  with  certain  
amount~ guaranteed  

Not had for an economics major. 
they're on base. 
"The limny thing is, I wondc.:rc.:d 
why the Red~ never considc.:rc.:d 
making a first baseman out of me. I 
wonder why I never thought about 
it mysd( hut l guess that was he­
cause we had Tony Perez and then 
Dave Driessen came.: along." 
Ros~·. 40, still maintains that ht· 
was given the cold shoulder by Reds' 
management which, in effect, forn·d 
him into free agency and his 
lucrative.: contract with the.: Phillic.:s. 
"If I had stayed in Cincinnati and gone to !I rst base.:. the·y could havl· traded Danny," Rose.: said. "You have to wonder what would have \lap· pencd then." 
What happened in ll)H I. three.: year!> aftn Rose left. is that the.: Reds made a first haseman om of catcher Johnny Bench. and Driessen asked to be· traded. In Philaddphia. Rose.: surpassl'll Stan Musial's record for National l.c.:ague hits -and dis­covered that playing tlrst hase might add years to his career. 
"The original contract I signed was guaranteed for four )'l'ars plus an option year if till' dub wanted to pick it up," Rose said. "With the year I've had, we (attorney Reuven Katz and Hose) have.: been talking about adding a guaranteed }Tar and l'Xtl'nding the option." 
-

Jrish.?r1ocha../Vfint 
IRISH SlYlf INS!ANl OOFF~~ ·~:~~.: .J 
TALK IT OVER,WI'fH A CREAMY-RICH CUP OF ORANGE CAPPUCCINO. 
Evc.:n though he.: is no longer tied to the National League because his pursuit of Musial's re·cord, Ruse.: doesn't think he'd jump to the.: Amnkan Lc.:ague to tlnish his career as a designated hitter. 
"I never wanted to become.: a designated hitter," Ruse.: said. "I'd go bananas on the bench. I haven't missed a game.: in the three.: years I've.: bct·n with the.: Phillic.:s." 
Sichting breaks foot in practice 
INDIANAPOI.IS (AP) -Guard Jerry Sichting broke a bone.: in his left foot during practice and will he siddincd f(>r an undc.:tc.:rminc.:d period, the NHA Indiana Pacers ~aid Tuesday. 
The.: 6-h>ot-1, third-year guard out of Purdue hroke his f(>Ot during pranicc Monday at Spring Arbor, Mich.. where.: tht· Pacers wc.:re to meet the Detroit Pistons in an t.·x­hibition game Tuesday night. 
Sichting will be examined h)· the Pacers' team doctor on \X'ednesday. 



The Observer --Sports Wednesday, October 14, 1981 --page 10 

Chances are :Vew York Cos111os' goalie IIubert Hirken meier does not like the NASL tiehreaking rule any more than Mike Ortman. See .Ifike's stor)' at right. (.4P Laserphoto) 
••••••••I 
I I I I I 
,.. I I I COMING SOON 
The Observer ···························­
ND ­

{Price Includes -round trip bus fare 
-2 nights hotel, Holiday lnn with team and cheerleaders 
KOK0:\10. Ind. (AP) -Proceeds from indiana University's benefit scrimmage basketball game at 
(quad occupancy 
-ticket to game) -refreshments en route 
Kokomo High School next month will go toward the medical expenses
Sign up Thursday, October 15 8: 00 am -5 :00 pm 
of tandem Turner, the former Hoosier forward who was paralyzed·
Student Activities Office, 1st Floor LaFortune 
in an automobile accident in .July. 
33 spaces are available--first come, first served basis. Bring money 
Coach Bobby Knight said the in­trasquad game will be held ~ov. Hat
and ID • limit 1 per person. Open to all ND-SMC students (if more 
2 p.m. in the high school gym, which
than 33 are present at 8:00am, a lottery will be held immediately). 
seats about 7, I00. Tickets are S4. 
"It gives us a chance to play with

NOTE: Class lot~eries for Penn State _game ticket (without trip 
packa_ge) w1ll be held after fall break. 
BANKING FUTURES • • • AT MERCANTILE! 
-
If you're interested in a banking career, cons1der Mercantile Bank­headquartered 1n St. Louis AND Missoun's largest bank. 
We offer a wide var1ety of opportun1t1es 1n Accounting & Auditing, 
Bond Portfolio Management, Data Process1ng, Operations, Trust Investments and International Bank1ng. New graduates with de­grees in General Bus1ness. Accounting, F1narice, Marketing or 
Bus1ness Management are encouraged to apply. 
We otter competitive salar1es. good benefits, educational assistance, merit promotions and more. We'll be on campus: 
Friday, November 6th 
S1gn up for an 1nterv1ew today, or send your re­sume in confidence to: 
Manager of Employment
M:RCAnTILE 
MERCANTILE TRUST BAn< COMPANY N.A. 

fans in the stands this early in the season, to play under conditions that are as dose to a game as possible " 
Today!!! 

A MINI -CARAVAN OF LAW SCHOOLS 
-Featuring over 25 Law and MBA schools 
-Boston College of Law -Thomas Cooley 
-Univ. of Detroit 
-Gonzaga U niv. 
-Hamline Univ. 

...and Many More! 
IN THE LIBRARY CONCOURSE sponsored h.Y the ND Pre Law Societ_y 
Breaking ties 
A knotty problem for NASL 
It's Super Bowl X\'1. and inside the Pontiac Sil­verdome, the \1iami Dolphins and Philadelphia Eagles are meeting for the ~l'L championship. For t(JUr quar­ters, the two teams hattie to a scoreless draw. After two more ovutime period~. ~till nothing. 
So out onto the astroturf carpet trot Tony Franklin and Uwe von Schamann. the re.spective place kickers tiJr the Eagles and the Dolphins. The referee tosses the coin and indicates that Franklin will go first. I lis holder spots the ball on the left hashmark at the .\tiami 25-yard line. Franklin's kick easily clears the crossbar, and Philadelphia leads. 1-0. Von Schamann matches Franklin's boot from the Eagle 25 ro tie the score. 
The two kickers mo\·e back to the :~0. the y; and then the 40 with the same results: .\liami ..j, Philadelphia ..j_ 
Franklin paces ,Jff the distance for his 11fth and tlnal kick. His holder rests one heel on the ,\liami 45, making it a 55-yard attempt. Along the Eagle sideline. Wilbert 
Montgomery sits on his hdmet. He's rushed for I97 yards, but now all he can do is watch. Next to :vlonrgomery stands Ronjawor!>ki. A dev<l!>tating :'vliami pas~ ru~h sacked the "Polish Rifle" seven times and hounded him into three interception~. including one in the Dolphins' endzone in the closing senmd~ of regula­tion time. Hut Jaworski won't have anv llltlre to say about the outcome of this one. 
llis head lowered, Franklin approad1es the hall. The kick is true and splits the uprights. Philadelphia leads. ') .."!, Tht: outcome of Super Bowl XVI rests s4uarely on the shoulders ofvon Schamann. 
Auoss the way, Vern Den Ilenkr sits on tht• bench along the :vtiami sideline. Unlike most of his youthful team mates who are now crowded together along the sideline, Den Herder has been there before, starting for \liami's W<lrld championship team~ of tht· early '70s. Even so, he's nevn before kit quilt: the way he docs right now. As von Schamann approaches the ball. Den Herder turns away and looks into the stands. 
Von Schamann hits the ball solidly. but hooks it wide ldt. As the ball sails past the upright, von Schamann sinks ro his knees. But referee Gene Tunny is waving both teams hack to their benches. 
Tht~ five-second dock which is ~upposed to count down from five during each kick. tailed to start. So von Schamann will gn another chance. He readies himself again, and this time the clock starts properly. The hall 'macks the crossbar and bounces straight up before 
Indiana University plays Turner benefit game 
Sports Editor 

fluttering to the ground in front of it. The Eagles win Super Bowl XVI!!! 
Jaworski and :vtontgomery smile weakly and exhange a feeble ·'high-tlve" before seeking out Franklin. the newly-crowned hero. Den Herder, meanwhile, already is slumped on a beiH:h in front of his lockt:r wishmg fo~ the small consolation of knowing that he had really lost the game. 
Rest assured NFL fans; Pete Rozelle isn't about to let this happen-unless, ofcoursc, he becomes worried at the thought ofplaying late imo the night in tl-ie peaceful, quiet Detroit metropolitan area. 
But one of Rozelle's colllcmporaries. the North American Soccer League's Phil \X'oosman, nor only would lt:t something like that happen. but he did. Whatever happened to that old sports adage. "If you don't let them st·ore, you can't lose'" Well, forget it. It happened two weeks ago to the New York Cosmo.~ in Soccer Bowl 'HI, the :>.IASL's an~wer w !he Super Bowl. 
Tht· mighty Cosmos and the Chicago Sting were scorek~s after I 0'1 minute~ of soccer. So according to NASI. rules, the kagut· champjonship was decided Iw a shootout in which tive players from each team get a chance to go one-on-one with the opposing goalkeeper. It's really quite simple -the team that convcrt~ the most ofits live chances wins. 
There's something about the whole idea that just 
· doesn't seem right. What the heck; why not let players draw straws or flip coins? F.itht·r of these two "duels" has as much .to do with the game of soccer as these one-on-one duels. 
Vlayhe it's just me, though. It could be that the NASL has come up with a tremendous idea. If that's the case though, then let's hope Bowk Kuhn is paying attention, because ifthe the playoffs and World Series continue to drag on as t·very·body is predicting, Bowie simply could borrow Jay Johnstone's rubber batting tee, set it up at home plate and stage a home run derby to d~;termine the WorlJ Scrks winner. 
-Loyola Univ. (Chicago) -Loyola Univ. (New Orleans) -McGeorge School of Law -New England School of Law 
-Northwestern 
Knight said Turner is undergoing therapeutic rehabilitation and is learning to operate a wheelchair. 
The Observer is continuing its own money-raising efforts for the Landon Turner Fund. There is nearly $300 in the fund at presentand the total is climbing every day. Contribu­tions will continue to be ac­cepted at The Observer until Dec. 1when the Fighting Irish face the Hoosiers in Bloomington. Make checks payable to "The Observer Landon Turner Fund." 

~~urill~ ~CID~ 
presents 

UJ~~'.Lr mr ~\.8-~ I) ~4\\l\ 
starring 

WOODY ALLEN 
ond DIANE KEATON 
Tues. Wed. Oct. 13, 14 Adm. $1.00 
Engineering Aud. 
Tonight's Spe~l: Thursday 's Special: 
RELAX BEFORE BREAK 
~Lm~CIDrn rnru:R 
open 9:30-2:00 
<.: 

7up 
The Obse~Jler.
.1.. Y' ----:.-=-=-=--==-=-:-:=:-:---·-===== =====-"-=-===-=---=---=---==-,===~=--=------------:=== 
T 0 da~=============="='=e=d:;:n=es=d=a=y=,=O=c=t<=>b=e=r=l4='=1=9=8=l==p=ag=Je=l~l 
~olarity Michael Molinelli 



The Daily Crossword 
© 1981 by Chicago Tribune-N.Y. News Synd. Inc. All Rights Reserved 




Campus 
• 1 1 :.~0 a.m. to ·HlO p.m. -caravan, law and mha school caravan, library cor1course, sponsored h) ntl pre-law society. •-1:_~0 p.m. -mathl·matics lectun·, "holomorphi, vecwr tkltls & c actions on projective varil'tit's," prof. j. h. carrl'll, 226 ccmh. •-1::\0 p.m.-reading. mark kramer. smith college. from hb work!->, lihrary loungl·. •-.'>. 1 I p.m.-tllm. "pt11· it again, sam." eng. autl., sponsored by stutlnll union, S I. •-. 10 p.m. -shakespeare t11m. "hamkt," alllll"n­hcrg aut!, snitc nurst'UI)l, sponsored hy t·nglish dept.. Sl. 
•-,oo p.m. prl'st·ntation. "the otlke \'i~it process". cooper and Iybrand, blue and gold room of morris inn. sponsornl lw beta alpha psi. recep­tion w·ill follow. 
Televisio11 To11ight 
22 .\lr. .\krlin 
28 All< .\lovk s1x-l'ial -",Jacqul'iinl· 
llouvkr 1\.t·nn,·Jy" 
34 ,Jusl Anolher ,\li"ing 1\.id 
46 .\h-ssage for rhe Hour 
7:30p.m. 22 \\'1\.ll.l' in Cincinn;Hi 
46 Oral ll.oherrs 
8:00p.m. 22 "Till" Two Lives of Carol Lerner" 
34 Sneak l'revit·ws 
46 Lester Sumrall Tt·at·hing 
8:30p.m. 34 The \\'oo<.lwrighr's Shop 
46 Tht· ll.t·nt·wnl .\lind 
9:00p.m. 34 .\lasterpin'l" Thearn· 
46 Today with Lester Sumrall 
10:00 P.M. 22 22 Eyt·witnl·ss :--~,·ws 28 :'llewswarch 2H 34 The Dick Can-It ~IHm 46 Christ is thl· Answer 
10:30 p.m. 16 :o.iewsn·mt·r 16 22 \\'1\.ll.l'/ h·arure .\lovit· 28 Viewpoint 34 Caplionnl ABC News 46 .\lit'hiana Today 
11:00 p.m. 16 Tonight Show 34 ~ign-Otl' 46 l'raist· lht· Lord 
11:30 P.M. 28 Lon· Boat 
12:00 p.m. 16 Tomorrow Coasr to Coast 
Today in History 
Totlay's highlight in history: 
In I066, forn·s under Duke \X'illiam of Nor­mand\' tld(:atnl Anglo-Saxons undl'f King llaroltl at the Battk of Hastings f~>r thl· conquest of England. 
On this date: 

In IHO<>. :"ooapokon ddl-atetl Prussia at _lena and 
Saxony at Auerstatlt. 

In 1'>:\:\. (;ermany left thl· League of Nations. 
In I<).f--1. in \\'orld \\'ar II, British and (;reck 
troops liberated At hem from (;erma,n li>rl'l"S. 
And in 1961-1. the first live tdecast from a manned 
l '.S. spacecraft was transmittt·tl from Apollo 7. 
Ten years ago: The ;\lohd Prize in physiology 
and medicine was given to Dr. Earl Southerland of 
:"<~ashville, Tenn., for research in discovering how 
hormones work. 

five years ago: Watergate Special Prosl-cutor 
Charles Rutfsaid he found no evidence to support a 
claim President Forti had misused political con­
tributions from maritime unions. 
One year ago: Republican presidential nominee Ronald Reagan promisl'tl to name a woman to the Supreme Court if elected. 
..... 
-
-

, 
t 
I 
I 
I 
LET HE 5E£... '1 28 AH NJP I'V£ (?DT THATFWIJX)' IE"T TDNORROW PLUS I 
HAV£ TD G,£r Tl-f/5 THEO 
VoM!NATEL-Y ' G,OT THIS CltN 0!= FR£6ftLY GKoUNii 
CO~FE£ TO 1-tELI" Hf" fviAKE JT 71/ROU~H 71/E NIQHT 
8f. fiA/ EA/(,1/JEER, NIIA/IS; rr·s 77fE RELO OF 7Ift' FCITU~c. '' , THEY 9110-"ftXnt LOYE 1T, 1 
you ',q£ II A/1/T£/tffll! u 
\ 


131/TI IX>N'T WANT ~ Be liN EIJ61NU~ •1 
{oN!FI") 

ACROSS 27 Kinsman: 
1 Brood abbr. 5 Nag 29 Today 9 Time zone 32 -and true 
letters 33 Riled up 12 Tilted 34 Culture 13 "I cannot medium 
tell-" 35 Sallythe 14 Black tea dancer 16 Certain 36 Inflexible artifacts 37 Love inor· 19 Mountain dinately pass 38 Wild party 20 To-• " 39 Bridle part (exactly) 40 Betty Boop 21 Accommo­and family dates 41 Handle 22 Prods clumsily 24 Salami 42 "Have you source -wool?" 25 Cotton 43 1951 Oscar fabric winner 
·~:.:.:.;:~~:.i:.~~=iii:ii:i~~ 
-10114/Bl 
k!.4M!T IT.. . 

(soB) 
YES! ... Ci1 YES 
44 Aleutian 11 Schick or island acid 47 Rod of 14 "Adam-" baseball 15 "Dry" group: 48 Bring into abbr. harmony 17 Confined 
50 "Rule 18 "Salome" Britannia" composer composer 23 Like some 
51 Do garden tones work 25 Sharpen 54 Very 26 Macaw profound 27 Spacious 57 Plumage 28 Sea bird 
bird 30 Hopalong 58 Tops flick 59 Rind 31 Take 60 Draft forcibly 
letters 33 Laurel 61 Roman road 34 Saw 62 Oh, woe! 36 Certain 
sect member 
DOWN 40 Asian 1 Chagall country 2 Shopping 43 Pennant 
list item 45 Cat's-paws 3 Ecological 46 Dill hazard 47 Wading bird 
4 Prefix for 48 Fruit drink center or 49 Young sheep log 50 "There'll 
5 Accelerate be­6 African time..." 
plants 52 Olive genus 7 Prevalent 53 Building 8 Darling wings 9 Fossil 55 Asian 
resin people 56 Depression
10 Potter's 

work grp. 
-----~---------------------------------------------------" 
------------~--­
Wednesday, October 14, 1981 -page 12
SP-orts 
From Irish 

Don't expect much more 
Well Notre Dame fans, let's look at the bright side. The Fighting Irish won't lose this Saturday. They don't 
...... play. Forgive the cynicism, but from the fan's perspective, there just hasn't been a whole lot to cheer about this football season. But believe it or not, that probably is a good thing. Face it -Notre Dame fans are incredibly dis­record of 51-4H. During those 10 years, the Irish

sapointed. Hopes of witnessing the fairy tale season ofa managed only four winning seasons. But throughout,
rookie coach and an enthusiastic group of "fine young even though there was an apparent effort on the part of
men" waltzing to the national title have been dashed. 
the administration to deemphasize the footballLiterally all ofthe preseason p~edictions about this team program, student interest and intensity never skipped a
were wrong. Seniors feel somewhat bitter that their beat.
class will be only the fourth in the last I 7 years to John Thurin, a 1959 Notre Dam~: graduate and now
graduate from Notre Dame without having witnessed" a president of a local advertising t1rm and part-time in­
Fighting Irish National Championship. Many now are structor hen.: in the College of Business Administration,
saying they won't bother returning early from break for was the sports editor ofthe 1958Dome. He remembers
the Southern Cal game October 24, even though it the days when Notre Dame's name appeared in the Top
probably won't be nationally televised. The realities ofa possible 6-5 season are starting to hit home. 
Ten about as frequently as seniors appear at pep rallies Suggestions already are surfacing that Gerry Faust today. just start planning for next year by playing his freshmen 
"From year to year, no one knew what to expect," he and sophomores more so they can gain valuable ex­
recalls. "In (Terry) Brennan's second year ( 1955), the perience. team t1nished 8-2. So with a lot of people returning ­Most Notre Dame students aren't old enough to 
especially Paul Hornung -expectations were high for 1956." .
remember the last time the Irish football team was in this situation this early in the season. It was 1963 when 
Brennan's third year was much like Gerry Faust's first Hugh Devore's second Notre Dame team finished 2-7. 
has been so far. It was the epitome of frustration as a The record probably would have been 2-8, but the 
talented team struggled to a 2-8 record. "I remember game at Iowa was cancelled because ofthe assassination 
(Jimmy) Morse, the team captain, getting up at a pep of President Kennedy. 
rally late in the season," Thurin says. "He could hardly talk he was so choked up at the student support during
Today, Irish fans have been spoiled with 17 con­such a disappointing season. I recall him saying some­
secutive winning seasons and three National Cham­thing like, 'The student body deserves much better than
pionships over that time. But in this "Age of Apathy," 
this.'" .
the post-victory chants of "We are, ND," become That sounds a lot like the teary-eyed Gerry Faust at
mutterings of, "Ifwe're not gonna win, then who cares." the Michigan State pep rally. "I feel like I've let you
Between the time Frank Leahy concluded his career in 1953 and Ara Parseghian took the helm in 1964, 
See APATHY, page 8 
Fighting Irish teams compiled a mediocre overall 
Irish/Trojans off the tube? 
VIDEO YASCILLATION -The television status of the Notre Dame-USC game is still up in the air (no pun intended), although chances are very good that the game will not be aired on ABC-TV next weekend. 
In the event that the Los Angeles Dodgers are not in the World Series (in which case there would be no late afternoon Series games), ABC's college football telecast is set for 3 p.m to 6 p.m. EST, which is too late for South Bend sunsets. with Michigan State in a game billed as the "Game ofthe 
In the event that the Dodgers are in the series and Century" in 1966, the Irish pummeled USC 51-0 the ABC opts for an early afternoon college telecast. the following week to solidify their hold on the nation's top network is not likely to choose the Irish-Trojan contesr, spot. according to Donn Bernstein who handles the net­In 1973. Ara Parseghian engineered a 23-14 decision work's college scheduling. over rhe Trojans in Notre Dame Stadium, en routt· to an 
"Our inclination at this point is to save USC and Norre I 1-0 season and an Orange Bowl victory over Alabama. Dame for a latt'f date. Since USC can only make one In 1977, Dan Devine dressed his team in green uniform~ more appearance thb sea:;on, \Ve are thinking ofsaving for the first time in some 20 years and the fired up Notre them for a key confcrt·nce gamt:, maybe against UCLA Dame squad tashioned a 49-19 mid-season rout of the or Washington," explained Bernsetin. Trojans. A Cotton Bowl upset over Earl Campbell and 
"As ti>r Notre Dame. our inclination is that we want to the Texas Longhorns capped the 10-1 championship show them another time this season, most probably campaign that year. against Navy or Penn State. Ofcourse, there are so many DID YOU GET THE LICENSE NUMBER? -Notre tactors at this point, particularly the unpredictability of Dame's defense may have its hands full wh~;n Trojan this college football season. that it is impossible to tailback Marcus Allen rolls into town. Heading into this predict what we will decide. weekend's game wirh Sranf(Jrd, Allen has amassed 1,136 
"Although we have not locked anything out, our in­yards this season in an NCAA-record five straight 200­clination at this point is not to televise the USC-Notre yard games. He has to average "only" 144 yards in the Dame game." next SiX games tO eclipse the 2,000-yard mark, an Un· 
TROJAN ASSAlJLT -The Irish face the Trojans of precednented single-season feat. Pittsburgh's Tony Southern Cal next Saturday for the 53rd time. The series Dorsett, the 1976 Heisman trophy winner, owns the has been waged annually since 1926, with the excep­single-season NCAA record of 1,948 vards. 
l 
' tion ofthe 194.3, '44 and '4'5 seasons, and the Irish boast Those five 200-yard games surpas;ed the USC school r a 27-21-4 record in the all-time series. However, the record of !Smr in a season held by 0.]. Simpson ( 1968) Trojans have captured nine of the last I I games and and Charles White ( I 979 ). He has also equaled the NEW YORK (AP) Graig ing another New York left-hander, Notre Dame has only won two in the last 14 contests. In NCAA record of t1ve in a season set by Ed Marinaro of 
Nettles, a batting flop in the East Rudy May. The rest of the series will fact, USC's 2 I wins in the series are the most ofany Irish Cornell in 1971. The 925 yards he gained in four games
I 
Division playoffs, hammered a three­be played in Oakland beginning opponent. at the start of the season also shattered Greg Pruitt's run double with two out in the first tomorrow night. The Irish were rated number two in the country be­1971 mark of905.
r 
inning and the New York Yankees The game was uneventful for the hind Sugar Bowl f()(_' Georgia heading into last year's GETTING IN GEAR -Although the Irish have went on to defeat the Oakland A's 3-most part, although the crowd of tussk in the L.A. Coliseum, only to t1nd themselves on dropped three oftheir t1rst five contests this season, the 1 last night in the opening game of 55,740 was expecting fireworks the low end of a 20-3 score by game's end. Notre Dame defense has nor allowed a point in the t1rst quarter yet the American League Championship with Oakland Manager Billy Martin mustered only 120 yards of total offense. 95 on the this season. In fact, Notre Dame's defense has given up a Series. going against the club he managed ground and 25 off the hand of quarterback Mike first quarter tally in only 3 oftheir last 22 regular season 
Veteran left-hander Tommy John, during two rurmoil-filled terms. Courey. Phil Carter led all Irish rushers wirh 42 yards, games, yielding 19 points during that span. his sinker pitch working to perfec­l\<lartin received as loud an ova­while Michael Harper paced the Trojans with 87. STICKY FINGERS -Notre Dame has also been very tion, scattered six hits in six innings tion as ~ost Qf the Yankees in the TOPS 1:'-J THE NATION -Notre Dame and Southern cautious in fumbling the footbalL The Irish have and was nicked for a run in the t1fth pregame introductions, but the only. Cal boast no less than I 5 national championships be­fumbled only eight times all season, and on all but one on Dwayne Murphy's RBI grounder. sparks occurred in the bottom ofthe tween them. The Irish have earned seven national occasion they have recovered their own miscues. The 
Ron Davis and Rich Gossage, New seventh when fans in the upper right crowns, in 1943, '46, '47. '49, '66, '73 and '77. The Notre Dame record for fewest fumbles in a season is 16, York's bullpen aces, held Oakland t1eld stands set off fireworks, delay­Trojans boast eight number-one ratings, in 1928, '31, set in 1950 and tied in 1964. The record for fewest hitless over the final three innings. ing play for a few minutes. '32, '62, '67, '72, '74 and '78. fumbles lost is six, set 40 years ago in 1941. 
The second game of the best-of­Gossage, who saved all three vic­PREDICTIVE POWERS -Notre Dame has only won FIRST-TIME FATE -Florida State was only the t1ve series is scheduled for Yankee tories against Milwaukee, took over three oftheir games with USC over the last 15 years, but eighth team ever and the third in the last 39 years to Stadium this afternoon with Oakland the Irish went on to win the national championship in escape from its first visit to Notre Dame Stadium with a 
See PLAYOFFS, page 8
right-hander Steve McCarty oppos-each of those three campaigns. Following a 'I 0-10 tie See ITEMS, page 9 


Rich "Goose" Gossage registered bisfourtbsat'e oftbeplayoffs as the Yankees defeated Oakland last night. See story below. (AP Laserphoto) 
Yankees, L.A. win 
•

t,n league playoffs 







