, , , Cockroaches -page 7 

WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 4, 1981

VOL. XVI, NO. 51 THE INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARYS 
Reagan ends meeting with King Hussein 
WASHINGTON (AP)-President friendship is a primary goal and dis­Reagan, concerned about Jordan's cussed how our relations can be interest in buying Soviet arms, con­strengthened," Reagan declared. He cluded two days of talks with King did not elaborate. Hussein on yesterday saying the For his part, Hussein, who has Middle East kingdom's security "is a conferred with six other U.S. presi­mtter of historic and enduring con­dents, said, "This particular meeting 
cern to the United States." at this particular time in comparison 
Publicly, the two leaders glo~sed with all my previous visits to Wash­over their differnces on methods of ington has left me more reassured pursuing peace in the region, and than any in the past and more confi­addressed merely their common dent of the future." He did not spell goal ofattaining Middle East peace. .out the reason for his optimism. 
As Hussein's limousine pulled Hussein leaves Washington away; Reagan was asked whether the Thursday after meetings with con-. king persuaded ·him to support a gressional leaders and Secretary of Saudi Arabian peace plan. "No," State Alexander M. Haig Jr. Hussein Reagan replied. "We just found we will make what aides say is a major 
corts are both at the library' and 011 call (dial

agreed on many things." address Friday in Los Angeles. 
7668). All u•omen students are urged to use tbls

By the same tokt·n, there was no Before leaving the United States 
service. (photo by Rachel Blount)

indication Hussein had been con­on Nov. 12, the king will stop at Fort vinced to change course and sup­Bliss, Texas, to view a display of port the Camp David accords, which military firepower, including im­
'Absolute protection' 
the United States insists is the basis proved Hawk ground-to-air missiles. for pursuing peace. Hussein said Monday the Saudi A senior American official 

Vault stores vital documents 

proposal was "worthy of considera-knowledgeable about Hussein's tion.." talks with Reagan said the king wants They aren't kidding. crete wall1> and is very secure. If 
By DAVID EINSTEIN 
Standing with Hussein outside the to buy Soviet air defense weapons of Their vault, in an old railroad tun­there was a disaster, we could 
Associated Press Writer 
Oval Office, Reagan said, "The a kind unavailable to him from the nel in the Santa Cruz mountains 70 recreate the records ofour office." security and well being of the Has­U.S. arsenal. He gave no details. SANTA CRUZ, Calif. (AP) -The miles south of San Francisco, The most secure areas ofthe vault hemite kingdom ofJordan is a mat­Administration officials had Western States Underground originally was billed as able to are those used to store classified ter ofhistoric and enduring concern hoped in this visit to convince Hus­Storage Vaults company advertises survive a nuclear holocaust. Pentagon documents. to the United States. sein of relying on the United States "absolute protection" for vital docu­Today, depositors ranging from "The Defense Department has 
"We agree rhat reinforcing this as its sole supplier of weapons. ments. IBM to Walt Disney, from the Rolling their own strong safes they bring in 
Stones to the Defense Department, there," Tinney said. "Nobody gets in keep records there to insure their there." survival in an increasingly perilous There are at least half a dozen

Baker opposed 
world. other vaults in the country, Tinney 
"With malcontents and said. In fact, Western States was pat­revolutionaries blowing up banks terned after the Iron Mountain vault and casinos, people have a need to in New York. But that, like other East




GOP thinks about new taxes 
protect their records," said Western Coast vaults, Is in an abandoned salt States president Dan Tinney. mine, not a railroad tunnel covered WASHINGTON (AP) -Senate believes Congress should "consider decisions, although sources said the Opened in 1954 under the name by a mountain. 

Majority Leader Howard Baker, R­funding defense through a trust chairman, Sen. Pete Domenici, R­Western States Atomic Storage In addition to the obvious Tenn., confirmed yesterday that fund." N.M., outlined a proposal designed 
Vaults, the vault was an answer to security of a three-ton steel door,Republicans have talked privately Baker made his comments as to balance the budget in 1984. 
the fears of the Cold War. As those four guards and a burglar alarm sys· about a new, national sales tax to Republicans on the Senate Budget Proposals circulating among fears subsided the name wasfuel the nation's military budget, but Committee met to discuss how to Senate Republicans for several changed -"The word 'atomic'declared he is "adamant in my op­write a binding budget outline for weeks have called for multibillion­

scared everybody to death," Tinney WEDNESDAY._

position" to the idea. the current fiscal year. It was not dollar cuts in benefit programs and a said -but Western States' directorsOn the other hand, Baker said he clear whether they reached any three-year tax increase of at least still point to the "vulnerability of 
Wfff:(flt'W FOcus
~ 

S50 billion. 
Western cities." 
Baker's discussion of a "national 


Dept. of Communication, WNIT to offer internships 
"Although the United States has 

defense fund" appeared to be a been spared the menace of enemy tern hooked into the local sheriffsrecommendation that Congress aggression thus far, the threat grows office, the vault offers economic ad­consider establishing a way of with each passing year," says a vantages, Tinney said.
earmarking money for defense like brochure. "Western cities are "Companies don't have to pay in­the one used for Social Security. 
regarded as inescapably primary tar­
surance on their property, whichSocial Security is financed by a get areas for atom bomb-laden would be high," he explained. "Theypayroll tax, not the income, estate 

enemy planes supported by a sub­
don't have to hire extra securityand other levies which provide 

marine fleet having guided missiles. 
guards to protect it. And we also per­money for defense, social programs 

In contrast, top echelons of Civil 
form a great deal of clerical workand most other government 

Defense do not regard isolated 
that saves them many hours."

services. 
mountain areas as targets." 
Tinney, an 84-year-o t ld retiredSources said there were several 

Whether thanks go to the Soviets, 
railroad man, says the tunnel was notideas under discussion to provide 

terrorists or just fear of an 
the first choice for the vault when he money for such a Pentagon account. 

earthquake, business at the vault has 
and several others began looking inWithout mentioning the "defense 

grown steadily -up between eight 
1950.

fund," Baker himselfsaid on Monday 
percent and ten percent each year, 
"Our first thought was to start thethat Congress should expedite the Tinney said. Today, two-thirds ofthe vault near Carson City, Nev., in someremoval ofprice controls on natural 300,000 cubic feet in the vault is old gold mines, but they weren't gas and pass a "windfall profits" tax filled, mostly with microfilm. suitable," he said. 

at the same time. 
In addition to the papers of 
"Then we planned to build in San White House spokesman David R. 

leading corporations, records ofuni­
Francisco, but we found out the costGergen said President Reagan 

versities, cities and 46 ofCalifornia's 
of excavation alone would be S8remains opposed to a "windfall 

58 counties are stored in the 246­
million to SIO million." 

profits" tax on natural gas and has 
foot-long tunnel, kept at a constant 
Another idea involved usingnot actively considered a national 63 degrees and 46 percent abandoned Yosemite Valley Rail­sales tax to finance defense spend­humidity. road tunnels in a scheme combinif18ing. 

"We have 16mm and 35mm vault storage with mushroomAddressing the difficulty of 

microfilm records dating back to the 
growing.

providing funds for both defense 
19th century down there," said War­
Finally, Tinney and his associates and social programs, Baker said, "I 

ren Slocum, assistant recorder for 
found a tunnel that until ~40 had am searching for a way to get them 

San Mateo County. "In the event ofa 
been used by the "Suntan ~ecial," a out ofcompetition with each other." 

natural disaster, a bank realy 
train that ran between Los Gatos and 
And while he flatly rejected a wouldn't be the most secure place Santa Cruz. They got it for a fraction 

proposed national sales tax, an idea to store these. "The vault has 18-inch thick con-See VAULT, page 3
See TAX, page 3 
ByJOHN McGRATH 
Editor·tn-Chief 
An agreement guaranteeing at least 1 5 internships for Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students has been reached between televi­sion station WNIT and the Department of Communication and Theatre. 
WNIT is the Michiana area's PBS affiliate at Ch,annel 34. The station is located in Elkhart, ap­proximately 20 minutes driving distance from the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's campus. 
The internships will carry a weight of three credit hours toward a major in the Depart­ment of Communication and Theatre. Students must, however, devote eight hours each week to their intern work at the station during the course of the semester. Hours have not been fixed, but can be negotiated with the station ownership. 
First priority for the inter­nships will go to declared majors in the Communication and Theatre Department. 
Mitchell Lifton, department chairman, noted that the inter­nships will place students in a variety of areas of television sta­tion operations. Some of the openings include positions in traffic, progra,mming, planning and development, community af­fairs, and in television produc· tion. 
"This arrangement will provide students with a really sig­nificant opportunity to par­ticipate in the work of an operating television station," ex­plained Lifton. "And hopefully, it will not be a one shot affair. In other words, we plan to offer such a program each sememster in the future." ­
The application process has 
not yet been finalized, but will 
begin soon, according to Lifton. 
More details about the program 
and the upcoming application 
process are available from the 
Notre Dame/Saint Mary's Depart­
ment of Communication and 
Theatre. 




ewsBrie/§ 


lh· I be I J/Jsert'<'l" and /be .ls.wdal"'/ Press 
A 35-year-old Indianapolis man was ar­
rested Tuesday on preliminary charges of criminal confinement with a deadly weapon after police received a report that two women were chained to a bed in a house. Charles Webster, 35, was being held in the city jail pending a court appearance Wednesday. Lt. Jerry Barker, a police department spokesman, said officers received a call about 7:30a.m. from a man who had been in the house. He reported thatjoani Blair, 29, owner ofthe home, and Rose Thurman, 21, were being held against their will. According to Barker, Webster, a former Martinsville resident, had lived in the house six to eight months, but Miss Blair told Webster to move out last week. He refused, and Miss Blair was handcuffed and Webster allegedly chained her to a bed during the past week, keeping her a virtual prisoner, according to Barker. She told police Webster had freed her for short periods. ­
AP 

Two men have been charged in Pawtucket, 
R.I. with taking part in a scheme to withdraw money from a dead man's account, officials say. Police said James Picchi, 30, of Lincoln, and Lloyd May, 30, of Pawtucket, were arrested Friday. Picchi was charged with uttering and publishing as true a withdrawal slip for $2,650 and May was charged with conspiracy, police said. Accord­ing to police, a man identifying himselfas Kevin I. Walsh p:oduced a passbook Oct. 22 and withdrew 112,650 from Walsh's savings ac­count in the form of a cashier's check payable to James Picchi. A teller who learned ofthe transaction reported that Walsh's obituary, which said he had died five days earlier, had been in the morning newspaper. Lt. Milton). King said police were waiting for results of Walsh's autopsy and were investigating his death. -AP 
The California Supreme Courtis reviewing 
the case of a teacher who contends he should be given probation rather than a prison term for a sex offense. Billy Joe Lock, of San Bernardino, argues that a judge meted out a sentence based solelyon the violation and the fact he was a teacher. Lock was sentenced last year after he pleaded guilty to one count oflewd and lascivious acts upon a child under 14. Superior Court Judge Clifton Allen found Lock to be a mentally disordered sex offender and sentenced him to five years. The Court ofAppeal affirmed the decision, saying the the defendant "was a teacher who took advantage of handicapped children in his special education class." -AP 
A Detroit attorney is suing the Federal Aviation Administration alleging that the dismissal of striking air traffic con­trollers has caused a "dastardly deterioration" in air service. In the suit filed Monday in U.S. District Court, Leonard Jaques demanded the controllers be reinstated and the air traffic control system be restored to its level previous to Aug. 3, when the walkout began. The suit saysJaques' law firm operates two private airplanes to fly attor­neys to 21 branch offices. Also named as defendants were the U.S. government, the Department of Trans,Portation and its secretary, Drew Lewis and FAA administrator). Lyrin Helms. An FAA attorney in Washington said he had not seen the suit and could not comment on it. -AP 
Urbain Giaume, one of the major figures in the "French Connection" heroin smuggling network, has died ofcancer in a prison hospital in Paris, French newspapers said yesterday. He was 68. Giaume was sentenced to 20 years in prison in July 1978 upon conviction ofleading a ring that smuggled a ton ofpure heroin into the United States between 1969 and 1974. The value of the heroin at that time was estimated at $4 million. He was released from prison last April because he was dying. But after a public outcry a court returned him to jail. A movie based on the case, "The French Connection," won the Academy Award for best picture in 1971. ­
AP 
The U.N. WorldFoodProgramwill send s6.7 
million in emergency food relief for Afghan refugees in Pakistan, the WFP announced yesterday in Rome. The allocation, the 12th since early last year, raised the total WFP emergency aid for Afghan refugees to almost S99 million, the Rome-based organization said. It said the latest relief shipment consisted of 30,000 tons of wheat. ­
AP 

The Cardinal O'Hara Lecture Series at 
Notre Dame, honoring the first dean of the College of Business Ad­ministration, will resume Nov. 12 with a talk by Roscoe L. Egger, Jr., commissioner ofthe Internal Revenue Service. "IRS Insights: Reflec­tions After the First 250 Days" will be the topic of his talk, open to the public, at 3:30p.m. in the Memorial Library Auditorium. Before his present appointment, Egger was a partner in the accounting firm ofPrice, Waterhouse and Co. and was in charge ofthe firm's govern­ment services department in Washington, D.C. He is presently responsible for planning and developing IRS policies in seven regional and 58 district offices across the nation. 
Continued mild with a chance of light rain developing late today. High in the mid to upper 60s. Light rain likely tonight, diminishing tomorrow. Low tonight in upper 40s. High tomorrow in the upper 50s to low 60s. 
Wednesday, November 4, 1981-page 2 
Full-time OC director needed 


When student representatives met with Trustees during semester break, Off-Campus commissioner KathyJurado proposed that the Administration appoint a full-time Off-Campus Housing Director, noting that the current director, Brother Edward Luther, already has a "full-time job" as rector of Morrissey Hall. 
Jurado added that Bro. Luther is the only University representitivc responsible for off-campus housing, and Bro. Luther agrees that he does not have the time and energy to put into all of the problems that come under the position ofhousing director. 
"The decision to appoint a full-time director is entire­ly up to Fr. John Van Wolvlear(Vice-President for Stu­dent Activities)," he said. "I certainly encourage Van(Wolvlear) to appoint a full-time director, because I believe the need is there." 
In addition to a full-time director, Jurado proposed that the Administration inceasc the staff of the off­campus housingoffice, which currently consists ofBro. Luther and a secretary. 
Bro. Luther believes that a full-time director with stu­dent assistants could be very effective. "The office space we now have is adequate, but there is a need for full-time assistance," he said. 
Another problem Jurado cited about the office is the inadequacy of the housing list. She claimed that often, listings appear that already have been leased, adding that when a unit is leased the off-campus office should be notified so that they can adjust the list. 
There is no system for student or landlord to check back and tell the off-campus housing office that a unit on the list is rented, according to Bro. Luther. "There should be check-back. This is part of the problem. I don't have time to do check-back," he added. 
Bro. Luther noted that the off-campus housing office started before 1956, when only students who were 21 years or older could have apartments. "We are begin­ning to get a little more organized," he said. 
Currently 2385 students live off-campus(300 less than last year) at a monthly cost of $85-11 5 perperson. 
Jurado believes that ifoff-campus life was made more attractive for students by organizing more neighbor­hood activities, upgrading the quality of available housing, etc., enough students would move off-campus !_O eliminate the possibility ofa lottery. 
"Ifrealtors and landlords are encouraged to improve conditions, the crowding on-campus would be al­leviated," Bro. Luther said. "The crime situation also has to be looked into. Police should be encouraged to take care of those areas in which students reside. At this 
· point, apartment complexes and townhouse areas can 
be safer than, for example, the St. Louis Blvd. area homes." 
. . . Bro. Luther agrees that he does not have the time and energy to put into all the problems that come under the position of housing director. 
If a substantially higher number of students moved off-campus, more on-campus housing would also be available for graduate students. This would benefit the 500 graduate students, primarily male, who arc forced to seek housing off-campus each year, according to Graduate Student Union Representative Dennis Staffel­bach. 
The Campus Life Council ( CLC) Task Force recently presented a resolution to Fr. Van Wolvlear, proposing a full-time off-campus housing director. 

1
Fr. Van Wolvlear said "we'll know in a couple ofdays" I whether or not he will appoint a full-time director, ad­I ding that he is in the process of responding to the resolution the CLC presented. "I will offer no comment until Don Murday receives my repiy," he noted. "They (student government) will get the answer first." 
Considering the advantages, it seems a full-time off­campus housing director, complete with full-time staff and student assistants, would be a worthwhile invest­ment for the University. 



Observer notes------. 
The Observer is always looking for new repor­ters. Ifyou like to write and can devote a few hours each week to reporting, visit our offices on LaFortune's third floor. Talk to one of our news editors. They'll be happy to help you get started. 
We also have openings for late-night production workers. Prior experience Is not necessary; we will train applicants. Promotion to paid positions depends on the quality ofwork. 
The Observer is your newspaper. Comments and constructive criticism are appreciated. Stop by our LaFortune office, give us a call or drop a line to The Obse-ver, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556. 

e-The_Ohs.erYer_ 
Design Editor ............ Mike 'Hellish' Monk Design Assistants....................... Tim Neely Layout Staff .............................. Bill O'Brien Typesetter .......................................... Ron joe News Editor..................... Cathy Domanico Copy Editors .................. Maureen O'Toole 
Steve Navarre Features Layout.............. Gregory Swiercz Sports Copy Editor .................. Ed Konrady Typist ...................................... )eanine Hyoes Systems Control ................... Bruce Oakley ND Day Editor........................ Paul McGinn 
SMCDayEditor............... Mary Kay Hogan Ad Design ...................................Frao & Bob Photographer ....................... Rachel Blount Guest Appearances .... Suzanne La Somers Lindy Cheryl the Peril Cake and Edith, too The Devil, passing by, noted: "Yea, verily, hell doth make one grow older." 
The Observer (USPS 598 920) is published Monday through Friday and on home football Saturdays, except during exam and vacation periods. The · Observer is published by the students of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Col­lege. Subscriptions may be purchased for $25 per year ($15 per semester) by writing The Observer. P.O. Box Q Notre Dame. Indiana 46556. ' 
The Observer is a member of The Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
Second class postage paid at Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 

Attention APPLE II Owners! 
DISC CALIBUTION AND 

Let us perform theN acQulhnenlla Mechanical: • Disk Speed Adjustment • Read Write Adjustment 
• Collet Hub Centering • Track Alignment 

• Guide Adjustment • Drive Door Adjustment • Head Cleaning Electronic: • Amplitude Adjustment • Azimuth Adjustment • Carriage limit Adjustment • Head Radial Adjustment 




~!'P!~!!.~!Ad® 
In College Square across from Town & Country Sh~>pping Centre Mon. thru Fri. 10 a.m. ta 6 p.m. -Tbun. Eve. to 9 p.m.· Sat. 10 a.m. ta 4 p.m. 
Wednesday, November 4, 1981 -page 3
The Observer 
Laartnan speaks on nuclear war 
JOHN KISSELL whether it be in a limited war, or radkal action in opposition to the \'t>U'S Stuff merely as deterrence. arms race. One example is a war-tax resistanct', i.e. witholding that por­
LaM night, Ed l.aarman. a PhD can­Mr. Laarman pointed out that a tion of income taxes that would go didate in Theology at the University growing number of Catholic Bis­to the military. These Bishops are of NOire Dame spoke on the topic of hop~ in the l 1nited States are emphasizing faithfulness to the "Nuclear War, Just War, and Chrils­reaffirming the foundations of the Church, and the foundations it is tian Faithfullness", to about 60 Church, and are calling for more based on. people in Hayc:s-Healy Auditorium. :\lr. Laarman compared various theoric:s of nuclear deterrence with, thl· doctrine of the Just War. The 
Molinelli comments 
lt:ctun· wa.o; sponsored by the Notre Dame/St. Mary's Pax Christi, as part of thl· observance of Nuckar Freeze 

on strip, second book 
Wel·k. .\1r. l.aarman's conclusion was that 
year, "Molarity" was published once the possibility of nudear war and By ROBERT MAROVICH a month. Molinelli said that the strip the prcludt: to such a war -the 
News Stuff then was used only to fill space until arm!> race -can never be viewed as 
night editor and managing editor "I've enjoyed doing 'Molarity,"' Steve Alben initiated the dailyjust because it failed to meet the criteria for a just war. 
commented cartoonist Michael publication of the strip in the spring As it devclopt:d over many cen­Molinelli after an autograph party of the cartoonist's freshman year. celebrating the pubication of his "People were still looking over
turies, the doctrine of the Just War second book, "Don't Make a Right." my shoulder; they weren't sure I
came to include these conditions, among others: "I've enjoyed the opportunity to could handle it," stated Molinelli, know that that little space in The Ob­because Observer editors were
I. Just Cause -resulting from an server is going to be there and I have "sensitive" about some of his
attack, loss of property and/or life, and to punish those guilty ofevil; 
to fill it." material. "There were a few car­Molinelli, a graduate student in ar-. toons they felt were not in the best
2. Discrimination -securing the Keenan l-East section leaderAngelo Perino collects 12 from jimchitecture, began sketching the strip interest of the Notre Dame/Saint
immunity of non-combatants; Wolfe as his contribution to the United Way drive. Thechari~vfund his freshman year at Notre Dame. At Mary's community and shouldn't be
3. Proportion -the good effects drive continues through Nov. 8. (photo by Rachel Blount)

that time, there were no comic published." Molinelli noted that asoutweighing the bad; and 
strips in The Observer. he established "Molarity," readers could be won. 
4. "Win-ability" -that such a war 

Molinelli presented the began to trust him. These criteria cannot be met be­
newspaper with a series ofprevious­One of the most notable events in cause of the nature of nuclear deter­
ly drawn strips, and "Molarity" was the five years that Molinelli has rence, and also because of the 
printed once a week. Later in the See MOLARITY, page 4 pos!>ibilitles of nulcar war. The offi­cial policy ofdl·terrcnce -Mutually Assured Destruction (MAD)-as af­firmed by both of the super-powers in SALT I, Is ba.~ed on the ability to 
• • • Tax 

kill large portions of either popula­tion indiscriminately. Even when a 
policy ofcounter-force is employed, ocate, will not advocate a national
mntinuedfrom page I
the stratl'gy of aiming missles at sales tax," Baker told reporters.
military targets, the ability to con­that several sources insisted he He said he had hea~d discussion of tain su<:h a war, let alone win it, are originally raised in private discus­such a plan to provide money for very questinable. 
sions, he appeared to leave the door defense, hut said it ~as not his idea. 
Mr. l.aarm;m said that the position open slightly for consideration of a Sources said the idea that hadof nuclear pacifists, in affirming the 
value-added tax. been discussed would remain in ef­Just War theory, must be in opposi­fect for a few years, and provide alltion to any usc of nuclear weapons, 
"I am not adamant in my opposi­the money needed for the Reagan tion to it as I am adamant in my op· administration's proposed defense position to a sales tax," he said. A buildup. value-added tax, similar to a sales The president is seeking S18l.R 
tax, would be levied at various billi()n for the military for 19R2.' ' ' stages of production ofgoods. 5214.9 billion in 19H3 and 5242.6 

Vault 

Registration for the Penn State Lottery will be Tues. and Wed. the 3rd .and 4th from 10-4 at the SU ticket office 1st Floor LaFortune bring /D's 
Winners allowed 2 tickets each and will be announced in Frida_y's Observer 
·--------------------------------------­
ND/SMC Student Players Presents: THE ODD COUPLE 
2nd Floor LaFortune November 6, 7,13, 14, 1981 
nmflnuedfrom page I 
of the onginal S300,0110 cost of 
building the tunnel. 
Nl·Mlt:d in the mountains three 
mill'S east of the town of Fdton, the 
tunnd is a perfect rl·pository, with 
almost I00 feet ofl'arth on top ofit. 
After 2"' years of faithful servke, thl· vault is now getting a fan·lift, inclutling new paint on the walls J.nd carpt·ts in till' receiving area. 
··we'rt· ~prul'ing it up." said Nor­
man Lar~on. chid custodian at tht· 
vault 
A tantalizing thought is that the vauh coulJ, unintentionally, turn out to he a time capsule some day, harboring a :.ampling of what life was like in tht· 20th century. 
"l'w thought ahout that," said Tinney. "It would he like tinding the lkad Sea scroll~." 
"I have not advocated, do not adv-billion in 19R4. 
8 pm Admission $2.00 

Cogimo'g aUt egigtt 
18461 St. Rd. 23 South Bend, call for appointment 2 77-18 7 
NOVEMBER SPECIAL!* 
-shampoo, conditioner, cut style Guys-$7.00 (reg. 13.00) Girls-$10.00 (reg. 18.00) 

•
•
•
•

• RODNEY
•


MASTERCARD •• DANGERFIELD •
•

COLLEGE CREDIT CARD PROGRAM : FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 6 8:00 : NOTRE DAME A.C.C. •
-lenient terms • • -establish your credit • TICKETS ON SALE AT THE A.C.C. •
•
: 'BOX OFFICE. ALSO AVAILABLE •
WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 4 
:AT: ROBERTSON'S INS. BEND, AND: 
LA FORTUNE 11:30-3:30 I • THE CONCORD MALL, ST. JOSEPH'S : 
: BANK (MAIN BRANCH), 1st SOURCE :

APPLY IN TIME FOR CHRISTMAS 
:BANK (MAIN), ELKHART TRUTH, •
SPONSORED BY FINANCE CLUB (3657) :SUSPENDED CHORD (ELKHART). : 
The Observer 



v£4ux­

ARJ:J­
13ALL~ 


Wednesday, November 4, 1981 -page 4 
According to Weinberger 




U.S. n1ust prepare for Soviets 
WASHINGTON (AP) The 
Soviet Union apparently thinks it 
could win a nuclear war with the 
United States, Secretary of Defense 
Caspar Weinberger ~aid yesterday. 
As a result, Weinberger told the 
Senate Foreign Relations Commit­
tee, the United States must prepare 
for the possibility of being hit by 
more than a single nuclear strike. 

Weinberger testified at a hearing on the Reagan administration's $180 billion, six-year strategic arms package, including the B-1 bomber and the MX missile. 
He was asked by Sen. Claiborm:: Pell of Rhode Island, the senior Democrat on the committee, whether the Soviet Union or the United States regards a nuclear war as winnable. 
"1 have seen nothing that indi· cates the Soviet Union does not believe it could win," Vi'einberger said. "When you look at the arsenal they have amassed over more than 21 years, I have to conclude that that is the assumption which underlies all of their thinking." 
As to the tl.S. view of a nuclear 
war, Weinberger said, "We view it as 
something that we should make 
every effort to deter." 
"We do think the Soviets by their 
actions h:l:ve indicated they must 
think it is winnable," he added. 
Sen. Joseph Biden, D-Del, asked Weinberger if he thought it was realistic to think of a nuclear war "that would involve strikes beyond several days." 
"I don't know if it is realistic," he 
replied. "But if this situation is what 
we an:: faced with, you cannot hope 
to meet it or to deter attack unless 
you have the kind of capability that 
will enable you to respond." 
"It appears that they (the Soviets) arc at least planning on more than one strike," he said. 

Weinberger said the administra­tion's arms package will strengthen the U.S. position in strategic nuclear arms negotiations, which he said are expected to~ get under way next spring. 
He said the US position would be "weakened very severely" if Congress rejected either the proposal for 100 B·l bombers or the interim plan to base MX missiles in existing missile silos. 
Gen. DavidJones, chairman ofthe Joint Chiefs ofStaff, told the commit· tee that reinforcing the missile silos to withstand attack will cost "only a small part" of the estimated S5 bil­lion to $7 billion cost of putting the 
MX mis~iles ito the ~ilos. 
Weinberger denied during the hearing a Washington Post story suggesting that the llnited States. working with Saudia Arabia witout the knowledge of the Senate. planned a massive network of com­mand, naval and air defense facilities in the Persian gulf region. 
"There is absolutely nothing to it whatsoever," he said. "It came out of whole cloth. Nothing was kept from the Senate. There is no secret treaty." 
Weinberger said it was true that, in the event ofa Soviet attack on the Persian Gulf oil fields, the United States would seek the use of addi­tional bases in the area. 
• • • Molarity 
continuedfrom page 3 
drawn ":\iolarity" was the strike against The Observer that he and a 
fellow  illustrator,  Pat  Byrnes,  in­ 
itiated in April, 1981.  
The  strike,  which  lasted  ap­ 

proximately one week, concerned the illustrators' complaints that they were bdng treated, as Byrnes put it, lower than "the lowest of journalis­tic castes." 
The illustrators' demands in­cluded use of a cartoonist's lounge, use of the Observer van, a pension plan, and a masseur. Molinelli noted, however, that there were no hard feelings between The Obsen,er and the illustrators. "But you must know that the whole thing was bogus." He added that he never saw the masseur and concluded that the masseur was in San Diego with Byrnes. 
You've considered getting an M.B.A. What about an M.Acc.? 
Master of Accountancy, that is. Whether your undergraduate background is 
in liberal arts, accounting, economics or any other business-related field, the 
master's degree in accountancy may be the best step you can take into a 
professional career as a CPA, financial executive or other equally challenging 
and rewarding position. 
With concentrations available in Taxation, Financial Reporting and Auditing and Managerial Accounting, Case Western Reserve's Weatherhead School of Management can prepare you for tomorrow, today. We've been teaching accountants for over sixty years in an accountant's town-Cleveland -home of one of the "Big Eight" accounting firms. Northeast Ohio is also 
served by all of the other seven, as well as other important local and regional firms. And Cleveland is world headquarters for dozens of publicly owned corporations, including Sohio, Eaton and TRW. A full range of financial aid is available, including scholarships, graduate assistantships and grants-in-aid. 
Whether you are interested in taxation, advisory 
services, computing or auditing, the Weatherhead 
School of Management and the Master of Accountancy 
degree may be the right professional course for 
you. Call or write for more information today_ 
CALL OR RETURN COUPON FOR MORE INFORMATION 
Master of Accountancy Program 
~,,~
The Weatherhead School of Management Admissions Office, 423 Sears Library -liliill
CASE WESTERN RESERVE UNIVERSITY
Case Western Reserve University 
CLEVELAND. OHIO 44106 
Cleveland, Ohio 44106 
(216) 368-2073 

Please send me information and an application for the Master of Accountancy program at Case Western Reserve University's 
Weatherhead School of Management. 
0 I would also like information on applying for financial aid. 
Name _____________________ Address _____________________ 
City___________________State______Zip______Phone( 
Current Affiliation 

Once Molinelli established "Molarity," juniper Press, the only student-run publishing firm in the United States, approached him concerning the publication of strips he had run in his first two years at Notre Dame. Molinelli consented. and On the Road to Selling Out was published during his senior year. 
The publication was not without a struggle, however. Said Molinelli: "I was told the title was somewhat depressing and would hinder the sale ofthe book. The book went into three printings, sold three thousand copies, and the bookstore ordered more copies-fromjuniperPress." 
With the local success of On the Road to Selling Out, Molinelli was approached this year by jwziper Press with the plans to publish an­other book. "Don't Make a Right was easier to get through," Molinelli said. "Once I had proved myselfwith the first book, they were very willing to cooperate with me on my title and on my format. I didn't have to prove myself again." 
"As far as 'Molarity' at Notre Dame. it will end as of this year. I want to recognize that it existed at a certain place in a certain time and leave it at that." Molinelli added that he had sent his work in a somewhat modified fashion to five syndicates. with no success, although he has not yet heard from one ofthe syndicates. 
Molinelli concluded: '"Molarity' 
just hit me as a word that applied to 
what I wanted and was obscure 
enough to take on a new meaning. 
"Just like the titles of my books. 
however, they do have some 
meaning, but to explain them would 
be like explaining a joke." 


New bill 
to aid Viet vets 
WASHINGTON (AP)-President Reagan signed legislation Tuesda) that gives priority medical care to Vietnam veterans who have been exposed to Agent Orange or other defoliants. 
"I expect this provision to be implemented in a manner that will not add to budgetary costs of Veterans' Administration medical care and treatment," Reagan said in a written statement. 
The bill also gives priority hospi· tal and outpatient can: to other veterans who may have been exposed to iodizing radiation from nuclear testings after World War II and extends for two years the time in which Vietnam veterans may use 
G.I. Bill education benefits. 
The president noted that the bill authorizes a small business loan program in the VA for disabled and Vietnam veterans. 
The Observer Wednesday, November 4, 1981-page 5 
FBI territory 




Reagan urged to restrict CIA 


Ph.D. candidateEd Laarman spoke atHayes-Healy last night on "Nuclear War, just War, and Christian Faithfulness" as part of NuclearArms Testing Freeze Week. (photo by Rachel Blount) 
WASHINGTON (AP) The Senate Intelligence Committee urged the Reagan administration yesterday to scrap its proposal to let the CIA infiltrate and try to influence 
U.S. organizations. 
After a one-hour closed meeting, Committee Chairman Barry M. Goldwater, R-Ariz., said the panel unanimously agreed to recommend that the administration retain the al­most complete ban on CIA infiltni­tion of U.S. groups imposed by tht·n-President Carter in january 
1978. 
"The CIA is designed to do foreign intelligence, period," Vice Chairman Daniel P. Moynihan, D-N.Y., said af­ter the meeting. 
Goldwater and Moynihan also an­nounced that the committee staff had completed gathering informa­tion in its investigation ofCIA direc­tor William]. Casey and would write a report, which will be made public. 
Goldwater said, "No basis has been found for concluding that Casey is unfit to serve as director of central intelligence." But Moynihan said, "The ultimate findings will await the conclusion ofthat report." They said they could not predict when that report would be finished. 
CIA spokesman Dale Peterson had no comment on the committee ac­tion, but a Reagan official, who· declined to be identified, said last week the administration was com­mitted to studying any recom­mendations the panel makes even 
though Reagan has the authority to 
sign it on his own. 
The committee has been review­
Ing a draft presidential order govern­
ing Intelligence agencies which was 
prepared by the Reagan administra­
tion as a replacement for Carter's or­
der. 
The Reagan draft, a copy ofwhich was obtained by The Associated Press, would have given the CIA authority, for the first time, to in­filtrate and secretly try to influence the activity ofdomestic groups. 
Infiltration could be authorized 
"for any lawful purpose" as 
determined by the CIA chief or his 
designee. Attempts to influence 
such groups could be undertaken if 
the attorney general found that con­
stitutional rights would not be vi­
olated. 
Carter's order restricted both infiltration and influencing basically to the FBI, and required approval of the attorney general for both. 
' ... the CIA is designed to do foreign intelligence, period ... ' 
. Democratic congressmen had criticized the Reagan proposal as an intrusion on civil liberties. They said it was unnecessary in view of the FBI's existing authority and possibly would violate the National Security Act of 1947 which banned CIA domestic activity. 
Asked about the panel's recom­mendations, Goldwater said, "The main thing was a deletion. We went back to the original (Carter) lan­guage on undisclosed participation in domestic organizations." 
Goldwater did not detail any other changes recommended by the full panel, but noted that individual senators would be allowed to for­ward their suggestions to the ad­ministration. 

Professors sponsor tour of urban Chicago 
By GUS TAMBORELLO 
News Staff 
Professors Irwin Press and Richard LaManna sponsored a tour of Chicago for 28 students from Professor Press' "Urban Anthropol­ogy" and Professor Laman­na's"Sociology ofPoverty" classes. 

The tour, now in its fourth year, lasted I 5 hours and took in much of urban Chicago. Press said that the trip grew out of his and LaManna's "concern with the urban phenomena." 
The tour began on the Dan Ryan Expressway, which is itself con­troversial because it displacecl many blackS and concentrated them in areas such as the South Side. Many groups have been displaced through the years, which characterizes the vast urban growth of the nation's second largest city, according to LaManna. 
The first stop was the market on 
Maxwell Street, which features ven­
dors from many ethnic groups and 
shoppers from all over town. 
Items such as stereos, clothing, and hubcaps are sold in the market, many of which are inexpensive and reportedly stolen. 
People have come to the market on Sunday mornings for over 80 years. The market is known for it's unique items and what Press terms the ever-present hagglers. 
One of the main purposes of the tour, according to LaManna and Press, was to note the great"homogeneity of the urban areas." 
Because of the large numbers of immigrants, housing and city services have been a problem for many years, resulting in cities containing "large populations which must be fed, housed, transported, entertained, educated, and healed," according to the professors. 

The professors noted the contrast between the inner city and th!'= North Shore area along Michigan Avenue, emphasizing that poverty in Chicago is right at the doorstep of some of the city's very wealthy in­habitants. 
Press, who attended the Unversity of Chicago and Northwestern Uni­versity has experienced what he calls both the swanky and nitty gritty parts oftown. 
The tour made six stops other than the Maxwell Market and the University of Chicago. The students visited Water Tower Place, Shedd Aquarium, Chinatown, the Cabrini­Green housing project, an Irish pub, and an authentic Greek restaurant. 

BARCLAY'S FRESH APPROACH: 
FILL UP




YOUR 

FAMILY 



thoIic Inquiry Series 

90 minutes of your time could change your perspective on Catholicism. 
Wednesday 7-8=30pm 
Oct. 28, Nov. 4, Nov. 11, Nov. 18, I::Xx:. 2 

Hayes -Healy Auditorium 
an 
canp~&
miniStry 

November4 "Women in the Church?" Sr. Marietta Starrie, CSJ 

Wednesday, November 4, 1981-page 6


Editorials 
Im.,;!~;~;,.~~~IH.~eagan
cafe m Munich, West Germany. while we remain that country's tar-Anth. w:..l You're a twenty or twenty-one-year-gest customer (in effect subsidizing OftJ wl0ft old German discussing your plans for the subsidizer of international ter­the future with your boy or girlfriend. rorism.) You've been thinking about getting Or this pearl of wisdom:" It's ob-Outside Wednesday married a~d you're dreamily discuss-vious that prosperity doesn't mg your future. decrease crime--just as it's ob-phone calls) and got his bill passe-d.· 
Then a bulletin comes over the the vious that deprivation and want don't Now, in November, it looks as television. The picture cuts to the necessarily increase crime ... Men are though he may have to use his per­American president, one Ronald basically good but prone to evil." sonality to get it unpassed, or the rest Reagan, who is discussing the pos-Which implies that blacks of his promises will come undone. siblilities of war in the next few Hispanics, and other economicall; The recent AWACS episode is an-• victory.· 
other example of his persuasive that hasn't been handed to him. Toyears. _Reagan, in his usual off-hand deprived ghetto residents are by Through these sorts of statements k J'bl 
powers. Whether or not this was a ' spea so g I Y of wanton destruc­way, mforms the group that he is nature evil criminals, while all those as well as the obvious policy of t' h
wise decision remains to be seen but lon, e must not understand the hor­ad?ressing, national newspaper folks out in the suburbs are innately Reagan's 'personal touch, pull~d it Reagan's advisors to keep him out of ror of nuclear war. That wouldn't beeditors, that he could foresee "a good and pure. 
all unrehearsed encounters with the h d t d
off. But again, even if he isn't the ar o un erstand, as the closest helimited nuclear exchange in Europe Such a list can go on and on. But psychopathic war-monger he often press, we are being shown that the has ever come to the military was aswhere the superpowers would not there is neither space nor need. These real Reagan is doing as well as his a t · A
resembles, he can be just as dan-h . n ac or m rmy training films. Let'spress the button and escalate it into contradictions should raise a few gerous. istory would indicate; he's a B-JUst hope he doesn't get his chance toall-ou_t nuclear war." Most comfort-questions, like exactly what is going It is becoming increasingly clear Movie actor without anything to say win the war he keeps talking about. 
mg 1f you live in Omaha or on, but there doesn't seem to be Leningrad, but if you live in West much discussion about it. Reagan has that this man doesn't (and never did, p========================~==~ , Germany, you might get the sneak-had almost a year to prove himself but that's another story) have the ing suspicion that the future is slowly and I think the answer is clear. H~ qualifications necessary to running 
Prose and Prejudice
being_cancelled. doesn't know what he's talking the United States, but we are stuck As1de from the unsettling content about, on just about anything. with him for at least three more 
Tom Wolfe, the stylish literary , -----­of this statement, one has to wonder Remember the "killer trees?" The years. In the end, his bluster on brawler who keeps a punching bag by 
G Wiills
about the propriety of making such a "fascist New Deal?'' How about economics, crime, Libya, and his typewriter, is at it again. In his arrystatement. The president of the Reagan the biologist: "Oil slicks whatever else he decides to pontif­new book, "From Bauhaus to Our United States is supposed to be "the help clean the ocean.'' The most icate on in a given week don't count House,'' he takes on the architectural guardian of the free world, •' yet this disturbing aspect of all of this is the for much. The economy is pretty establishment. Outriderpresident feels most comfortable way that the country willingly ac-much going to go i-ts own way, crime Even if you disagree with Mr. 
casually discussing the annihilation cepts this kind of blus t teras national will continue to rise until certain Wolfe, you have to admire his out­of Europe. policy. Sure, Reagan is a nice guy, necessary steps are taken, and Kad­spoken assault on entrenched non­and Le Corbusier made dupes of us _ The same president is equally he probably doesn't mean any harm, dafi will meet the end that comes to sense. He says "the Bauhaus all. In this book, in other words, Mr. 
comfortable talking about "getting but it looks as though he may cause all despots. 
atmosphere," which gave us modem Wolfe is once again joinin_g his fel­government off our backs" and quite a bit anyway. The specter of nuclear war, architecture, is a more proper subject low dandy, William Buckley, in "ending handouts" even though Reagan's disarming personality however, is another matter. It is has for "group psychologists" than for giving elegant verbal poses to they are ~oing to impose hardship (no pun intended) allows him to get been a position of this administration architectural historians. He tells us nativist prejudice. 
~nd suffenng upon significant por-away with things that just about any since the campaign that nuclear war Le Corbusier's work "progresses Mr Wolfe's politics are uninten­lions of the population. He is insist-other politician would be crucified is 'winnable,' whatever that means. 
shortly from special pleading to false tionally comic-modernism was no ing upon the implementation of a for. He has sold the country a bill of Now Reagan is apparently outlining witness.'' more "leftist" than some of the economic program that is already goods on economic policy that is on-the terms under which it would be His final judgment on modernism? things it displaced and Mr. Wolfe crumbling around him, and in the ly headed for disaster, unless he 'won.' Where is the uproar? Aside '' In the jet age these ideas of the praises (e.g., social realism). But face of all that, still insists that the retreats from his current headstrong from a few 'liberal' columnists, there 1920's began to wear a very quaint commie hunters' ability to identifynation has to spend 1.5 trillion dol-positions. Remember the television has been no remark on this position. 
and half-timbered look. This, of their prey is in inverse proportion to Iars on military hardware, much of speech to drum up support for the tax Europe is becomingly increasingly course, made it easier for some their ardor for the task. 
which would not address the real cut last summer? Reagan carried this agitated; there are protests weekly feeble intellects to 'adopt the modern More important, the idea that an needs of the military. He criticizes through by the power of his per-against the current military buildup. 
style,' and we are all familiar with SAmerican style can be bred by ban­and threatens Libya and Kaddafi, al-sonality (although there is some Perhaps they are concerned because the dandified figures in the drafty and ning foreign influence is at odds with lows a cabinent member to say evidence of dirty tricks like staged they will bear the brunt of the 
obsolescent sports cars who practice all our experience. American style modern architecture as ·if it were a did not grow by isolation, but by finished period style ... " cross-fertilization. Even such pun­You can't beat Wolfe for vigor of gently American products as Ben-·


P.O. Box 

style, can you? But: I've not been jamin Franklin's Poor Richard and quoting Wolfe at all. I've been Mark Twain's Colonel Sellers had Dear Editor: turned down Frese's appeal for rubble of the Frese suit, my most quoting an article written in 1955. It foreign models -respectively, I would challenge any reader to tenure wanted the case brought to tri­chilling reaction is a sense of appeared in Architectural Review, Swift's Isaac Bickerstaff and Dick­make sense of the legal details of al on precisely the grounds that humiliation on behalf of the main ac­and was written by the esteemed es' Wilkins Micawber. 
your October 30 story on the Frese's record was not exemplary tors in this contemptible performance 
critic Reyner Banham. Bauha-us Who was more American than withdrawal of tenure appeals by two and did not justify promotion. Evi­-humiliation compounded and in­
pretensions were punctured a quarter Franklin? Yet the best student of his former faculty women in the Delores dently because she was rich enough, tensified because the actors them­
of a century ago. Mr. Wolfe does not vocabulary, L.M. MacLaurin, found Frese suit. That is a serious flaw in leisured enough, and obsessively selves have no awareness of their 
know that. The list of things Mr. that he deliberately avoided your coverage, but one with which I own ridiculousness.
willful (something that in whole or 

Wolfe does not know is astonishing. Americanisms. For that matter, cannot deal. Another flaw, however, Yours very truly, 
part the other women in the suit were 

Take this sentence from his new Noah Webster's American Diction­is that The Observer interviewed on­not), Frese was able to obtain from Joseph Duffy 
book: "There were no manifestos in ary has been falsely described as ly Frese and made no attempt, ap­the University what she was not able Professor ofEnglish the world of art prior to the 20th cen­nationalistic in its emphases.
to achieve on her merits from theparently, to check with English tury." Webster repeatedly said that English Department -promotion Kelli Flint, Executive News. faculty on the various Appointments If we go back only two centuries, America's language is the same as and tenure.

·and Promotions Committees which Editor, replies: we find manifestos setting the England's and "it is desirable to 
Over a period of years Delores While I am grateful for Professor
turned down her tenure request on program for many artists-Burke on perptuate that sameness." 
Frese has been publicly and privately Duffy's response to the Frese story, I four occassions. Although it is both The Sublime, Gilpin on The Pic­But the traffic was never one way.
abusive of university administrators would like to point out that following 
tedious and painful to return to this turesque, Hogarth on The Line of Franklin gave to the old world, after and of her colleagues -including, a previous column (September 9,issue, the university administration 
Grace, Lessing on The Classical, taking from it. His Poor Richard ap­has been persistently silent on the 
very recently, Madonna Kol­1981 ), I contacted Professor Duffy 
Reynolds on The Grand Style, peared _in France as Bonhomme matter while Frese, whose fictions of 
benschlag, whom she now claims to and two other members of the 
Diderot on Sentiment, Ruskin on Richard and supplied Europe with life are as inadequate as her fictions support " 100 per cent." I would up­English faculty for a response to al­
Pre-Raphealitism, Pugin on Gothic. more than the name for a boat. 
hold any minority individual or legations Delores Frese madeof art, has been flamboyantly and 
Like most •reactionaries, Wolfe American architects, as well, had al­self-aggrandizingiy vocal. 
group -faculty or student -who against the English department. 
yearns for the past without knowing ready helped form the international It must be said again-and again, can prove discrimination at Notre None ofthe professors agreed to as­much about it. style before it came back to these I fear -that no charge of dis­Dame since the political basis of this sist me in writing an article in The burden of his new work is that shores for praise and ridicule. 
intellectual community should be response to her charges. They all, incrimination by the English faculty Americans should have denied intel­Sealing borders to keep out un­against Frese has ever been proved generous imaginative equality. AI fuct, reminded me of a letter sub­
lectual visas to the Bauhaus ar­American thoughts is a sign of intel­because the University, for its own 
the same time I would caution mitted the week before, which stated 
chitects, so a genuine American style lectual poverty, not strength. It is the 


anyone who feels harassed to see an their disapproval ofthe tenure settle­Frese while denying her charges. An estimable model Delores Frese, the ment. My offer still stands, and I overwhelmingly majority, however, 
labyrithine reasons, "settled" with 
only female among seventy-six to welcome the input of the English oJ... e;-ery Englis~_ committee that profit from her suit. Amid the ethical faculty regarding this issue. 
could arise. This ban on suspicius kind of thing the Russians do. The foriegners amounts to setting up -a real effect of our reactionaries is al­House Committee on Un-American ways to make us imitate the enemy Houses._!he "socialism" ofGropius they fear most. 
Editorial Board and Department Managers
====IheO~~~==== 
Editor-in-Chief..............................]ohn McGrath SMC News Editor......................Cathy Domanico 
. Box Q, Notre Dame, iN 46556 

Executive News Editor.........................Kelli Flint Photo Editor ........................................John Macor
~he (!bserver is an independent newspaper published bv the student~ of the 
News Editor ..................................Tim Vercellotti
Umverslty of~C?tre Dame duLac and Sainr Mary's College. It doe~ not nece;,;.arilv 
News Editor............................. David Rickabaugh Business Manager .........................Rich Coppola
reflect the poliCies of the admm1strauon of either institution. The news is reported 
Sports Editor ..............................Michael Ortman Controlter............................................ .)oe Mulflur
as ~ccurately and _as <:JbJecuvely as poss1ble. Ed1tonals represent the opin10n of a Editorials Editor.......................Anthony Walton Advertising Manager .......................Chris Owen
maJor~ty of the Ed1tonal Board. Commentanes, op1n1ons, and letters are the views of thetr authors._ Column space IS available to all members of the communit\· and Features Editor .........................Gregory Swiercz Production Manager ...................Michael Monk the free expreSSIOn of varying opinions on campus, through letters, is encour~ged. SMC Executive Editor........... Mary Agnes Carey Circulation Manager .............Tom MacLennan 
Wednesday, November 4, 1981-page 7



Features 
Theology alternative 
Cockroaches infest
TCS gives rewarding experiences 
student's way of life 
munity service and social justice Beattie, C.S.C.; Fr. joe Carey, C.S.C.; graduate years at Notrt: Dame, 
A
s I look back on my under­groups on campus. Even after and Fr. Tom Maddix, C.S.C. I am 
L
ife at Notre Dame has proved to be everything that I figured it graduation and after I was married, I excited to see that students con­
the course that stands out most in 
would be. For months before I arrived upon the campus, I 
, with my husband, looked for ways tinue to have this opportunity to in­

my mind, the course that had the wallowed in my visions ofparties, recreation and fun. I have alreadyin which to continue the develop­tegrate their faith with a service found the friendly upperclassmen next door that I dreamed wouldment offaith, especially ·related to experience in the context ofthis be there to assist me with every tough calculus problem and
By Andrea Shappell the service dimension. We decided course. 
research paper I encountered. For the most part, the universityto spend a year working with the Ifyou are interested in this course 
abounds with at least semi-intelligent life. Even the weath_er h01-o; beenChurch in an inner-city area. you may pick up more information greatest impact on my life, was a When deciding on what type of at the Center For Experiential Learn­
enjoyable--no doubt it has ac-!Mil~l,f-i;i§IIil!!!!!\\!!i])M]\ml!l@!!!!!!
course entitled: "Theology and service to do, I remembered how ing, 1110 E. Memorial ~1 ibrary, comodatcd itself to fit my ex-
Marc Ramu·ez
Community Service (TCS)." This much I enjoyed visiting the two X2788. The course is limited to 18 pectations.
course promotes a new way oflearn­people in the nursing home while I students, usually 9 men and 9 Overall, the living is easy ing and different way of"doing was in TCS, and I decided to work in women, so you are encouraged to 
and Ican always find a friendly--------------­
theology." 
a neighborhood center which was pick up the essential pre-registration face around every corner.

In TCS I was given the oppor­geared toward the needs ofsenior materials soon and sign up for an in­
However, there was one thing iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii
tunity to reflect on my faith, to ex­citizens. During the year I was able terview with the teaching team early that apparently had slipped my mind in my mind's preparation forplore the idea ofChristian service to visit the homes ofelderly persons in the advanced registration week. 
campus existence.

and to begin a process ofputting in the neighborhood as well as help Another course that offers an op­I thought that I had left them all behind at home where they would some ofthe questions I have about them with transportation and emer­portunity for reflection on the terrorize my family by night, always in numbers, always by surprise.
life into a theological context. 
gency assistance. My favorite aspect dynamics ofservice through reading How could Iforget them? One ofthe oldest survivingspecies on thisTheology and Community Service of my job, however, was working and discussions is "Reflections of planet? In my eager anticipation of the joys ahead, I must haveinvolves visiting two people in a with some high school students who Service." This one-credit course is stupidly ignored the possibility ofcockroaches roaming my room.

nursing home, reflecting about the visited senior citizens. I was able to designed for students who are Oh, sure, other hall residents are bothered by trivial creatures suchexperience ofthe visits in a journal, set up a modified TCS course with presently involved in a community as flies, and some rooms have had the rotten luck to be invaded by ansharing reflections with others in them so that they could reflect on service project orare planning to do occasional moth. I can handle flies and moths, but do I get flies andsmall group discussion and writing a their experience and try to integrate volunteer work after graduation. 
moths? Noooooo! My room is infested with roaches that look likecomprehensive case study. For me, it with their faith and what they More information on this course is they escaped from a museum while the National Guard wasn't
these elements marked the begin­
were learning in their religion available at the Center for Experien­looking.

ning ofa process of making my faith courses. tial Learning. 
Roaches have always disgusted me. Since the age ofsix, when I 
truly my own, not just what I was Now that I have returned to Notre My hope is that many students used to make a habit ofcapturing helpless insects for fun, the cock­
told it should be. 
Dame to work at the Center for Ex­will take advantage ofthese oppor­roach has been the insect I have flatly refused to lay a finger on. 

After I was in this course I saw periential Learning and to pursue tunities to serve and reflect on the Something about that corpulent brown body makes me shudder 
service as a more integral part of my studies in theology, I have the experience. Doing this in the dis­more than do any other oflife's terrors (i.e. kisses from Aunt 
Christian faith and I consequently privilege ofbeingon the teaching ciplined manner ofa course can Gertrude, Dining Hall chicken, Emil quizzes, etc.).
became more involved in com-team for TCS with Sr. judith Anne have life-long benefits. 
I can still recall the night when my roommate and I spotted the first roach in our room. Greg was at his desk agonizing over the laws ofsupply, demand, and increasingcosts; I was cuddled com-fortably in a beanbag chair writing a letter to an HTH while mellowing out to 


1Tattoo You' keeps on rolling 
the sounds ofEmerson, Lake, and Palmer. A sudden rustling noise be­hind the heater drew our attention. It sounded big, whatever it was. all ofthem are quite good, especially 
It sounded massive. My roommate suspected a fugitive cat or squir­
A
fter listening to this album, 
"No Use in Crying" and "Waiting on 
rel. 

which hit number one on the 
a Friend." 

Then I saw it. It was big and massive, straight out the Guinness 
Billboard charts after only two 
Yet the Stones have not complete­
Book of World Records. 

weeks on it, one can hardly believe 
ly betrayed their advancing age in 

"Oh my God!" I yelled, flying outof my seat. "It's a cockroach!" 
that the Stones have been recording 
Tattoo You. As side two is all ballads, 

"What kind ofcockroach?" asked my roommate calmly.
for 18 years, and all are pushing 40. 
side one is all rockers. "Start Me Up" 

"A German cockroach! Ican tell by his accent! How should I know 
They have regained some en­
is very reminiscent ofpast Stones 
what kind ofcockroach--" 

thusiasm for what they have always classics like "Jumpin'jack Flash" and 
"No, I mean, is it a big one?" is the most powerful leadoffsingle 
"I'm still looking for the sign on his back that says 'Oversized from a Stones LP since "Tumbling 
Load'."

By Tim Neely 
Dice" from Exile on Main Street. 
"Well, kill it." "Slave" and "Little T & A" are also 
This is where I drew the line. By now Iwas cowering in the safety good -the Stones can still rock 
ofthe upper bunk, hoping that the monster would go away. There The Rolling Stones when they want to, and be good at it. 
been best at -no-frills rock, both 
was no way I was even going to step close to that cockroach, much Tattoo You Overall, this is the most consistent fast and slow -and the result is one 
less kill it. A bazooka would have been handy at the time. Stones album in years. Only two of ofthe best Stones LPs ever. 
I have a number ofexcuses filed cleverly in my mind for an occa­This album is also noteworthy be­their other releases since Rolling Perhaps because ofthe short 
sion such as this one. Unfortunately, I never patented them and have cause ofits material, particularly Stones Records was formed ( 1971 ) 
layoff since Emotional Rescue, their 
heard others use them as well. For those who arc also squeamish side two, as that side consists entire­do I find myselfable to listen.to with­last album ofentirely new material 
when it comes to clobbering a cockroach, here are some ofthem: ly ofslow songs. Mick)agger and out wanting to skip around -Sticky (released in june 1980), this album 
"I'm too tired." Keith Richards long ago proved they Fingers andSome Girls. I have come comes off as being fresher and less 
''I'm just not in a roach-killing mood right now." since the early 70s. Also, Tattoo You 
contrived than any Stones album could write good ballads ("As Tears to expect wild inconsistency in their 
"Killing a roach is against my religion." Go By," "Angie," and "Fool to Cry" performances from track to track; 
"You first." are three examples). However, they this is not there in Tattoo You, anal­is the first Stones LP in recent 
"You do it. Your shoes are dirtier than mine." rumors of the band's imminent 
memory which was not preceded by 
had not dedicated a whole side ofan bum worth every cent I paid for it. I 

"Lemme just wait until he insults my family heritage." breakup. As if to prove it, they are 
LP to them before this. Maybe the haven't been able to say that about 

Luckily, I just happened to be in the top bunk, so I used the excuse currently on their most extensive 
Stones are mellowing with age, but an album in quite some time. This is 

about being tired and tried to act as ifl were sleepy. Greg was forced the intensity is there: surprisingly, easily one ofthe ten best of 1981. 
to dispose of the creature himself, and he did so in one swift blow with his Nikes. This deed reminded me ofa line from a poem I once wrote entitled "Ode to a Squished Cockroach": 
"I didn't care--I didn't think--about the roach's life. I considered not the chance that he had children or a wife." 
tour in years. 


The seventh trivia quiz 
As is usual with cockroaches, they attack in numbers, and not more than ten minutes later Greg had to commit insecticide once again.
10. "Dazz"-Brick 5~ In Eddie Rabbitt's hit song"Step

W
ell, I think I have a permanent I'm still terrified ofcockroaches, and any small sound in my roomThis week's quiz can be justifiably by Step," what is the second step?
spot on the page now. You causes me to jump. Why do they pick on me?just once I'd like to driftcalled Seconds Out. I will describe 6. In the '50s doo-wop balladshould start to sec this every Wed-off to sleep without the fear that THEY are lurking In the shadows,second events in popular and rock "Book oflove," what does chapternesday that there is a paper. Now I waiting for me.
music history, or second place two say? 
I can hear them now...

finishes, or something like that. All 7. And finally, in another '50s duo­By Tim Neely you must do is answer the questions. wop ballad, "The Ten Command­
WffdWi& 
ments of Love," what is the Second
Good luck! 

1. In America, what was the name Commandment? can rest a little easier...and also get of the Beatles' second album? 8. Who gave the rock and roll 
Read 
hack to tht· business at hand, that is, 2. john Denver has had many hits world Sloppy Seconds? And who entertaining and frustrating you since his first biggie, "Take Me came back for aSecond Helping? while you get skk on lunch. Home, Country Roads." That par­9. The most successful Beatles LP 
Andy Rooney 
The answers to last week's quiz on ticular record spent 23 weeks in the ofall time on the charts wasSgt. Pep­short song titles arc as follows: Billboard Hot 100. Which Denver per's Lone~y Hearts Club Band. 
I. "Be" -Neil Di01mond single is in second place in weeks on Which Beatles LP is second on the 
Every Monday 

2. "Him"-Rupert Holmes the chart? list? ;i. "SOS" -Abba 3. This famous band holds the 10. Contrary to what Casey Kasem 
4. "Fly" -Yoko Ono dubious honor ofplacingfive singles would have you believe, the longest 
in The Observer
5. 
"Babe"-Styx at number two without ever having a song spent at number two without 

6. 
"Orly" -The Guess Who a number one. Who are they? ever hitting number one during the 

7. 
":\1TA"-The Kingston Trio 4. What was the second song rock era is not six but seven weeks, 


Features pages 
H. "Don't" -Elvis Presley during the rock era to spend ten and held by only one record, not 
l). "Jet" -Paul :\1cCartney and weeks at number one (by title and three. Name this once-popular Wings artist)? record by title and artist. 
Wednesday, November 4, 1981-page 8 

Sports Brie/§ I 
By Th('!Jhsert•er and The Associated Press 

The ND-SMC ski racing team wm hold an or­Referees are needed for interhall basketball. In­ganizational meeting tomorrow at 8 p.m. in the LaFortune Little terested men and women should contact the NVA office (C-2 ACC) 
Theatre. All ND-SMC students who wish to race this year, including at 6100.-The Observer any new members, must be present. A presentation will be made concerning the trip to Colorado at the end of Christmas break. 
Anyone interested but not able to attend the meeting should call one ofthe captains -Barry Tharp ( 1 5 70), Nancy Sheft ( 41-4996) or Sue Hull ( 1674) -sometime this week for more information. -The Observer 
The ND-SMC Turkey Trot will take place on 
Monday, November 23 at 4 p.m. The trot will be ruri over a three­mile course, and is open to everyone in the Saint Mary's community. First, second, and third place prizes will be awarded in the following categories: 1 ) students; 2) male staff and faculty; 3) female staff and
The Observer-Landon Turner Fundwm faculty. Entrants may register by bringing the $1 fee to the Angela benefit from a dinner and talk by Indiana basketball coach Bobby 
Athletic Facility between Nov. 11 and Nov. 20.Ifyou have any ques­Knight. Turner, the Hoosiers' star forward, was left paralyzed by an 
tions, contact Mr. Dillon at 4182 (SMC). -The Observer auto accident in July. Tickets for the dinner, which is scheduled for 6 
p.m. Monday, November 9 at the Century Center, arc 1150. The talk will be at the Morris Civic Auditorium on the same night at 8:15p.m. Admission for the talk only is $10 for adults and $5 for students. Tickets are available at The Observer offices on the third floor of LaFortune. Donations for the fund are always welcome. Make checks payable to The Observer-Landon TurnerFund P.O. Box Q, Notre Football equipment exchange for interha!l 
Dame, Ind. 46556-The Observer football players will now be by appointment only. Contact the NVA office (C-2 ACC, 6100).-The Observer 
Rollie Fingers was named the American League Cy
Three lawyersfrom New York City will be panelists for Young Award winner. The relieface ofthe Milwaukee Brewers won a Sports and Entertainment Law Forum to be held at Notre Dame's six games and saved 28 others with a 1.04 ERA in 47 appearances. ­Center for Continlling Education this Friday. The morning session AP will run from 10 a.m. to 12 noon, and che afternoon session from 2-4 
p.m. The three panelists will be Seymour Peyser, Richard Zahnd and Sidney Bluming, all ofwhom are specialists in this expanding field of law. Peyser has served as vice-president of and general council to United Artists Corporation. Zahnd is general council to Madison Square Garden Corporation, the company that owns and operates Mary DiStanislao, the Irish women's basketball the New York Knicks and Rangers. llluming once represented the 
coach, will speak at Lyons chapel tonight at 7:30p.m. All are invited 
to attend. -The Observer 
New York Yankees.-The Observer 
Classifieds 
Desperately need 3 Georgia Tech. G.A.s. YOU MAKE IT HAPPEN! 
APTopT-nty 
The Top Twenty college football teams in The As­sociated Press poll, with first-place votes 1n paren­theses, this season's records and total points. Points based on 2D-19-1 8-17 etc. Notre Dame oponents are italicized. 
1. Pittsburgh (49) 7·0-0 1283 2. Clemson (9) 8-0-0 1201 3. Southern Cal (7) 7·1·0 1178 4. Georgia 7-1-0 1075 5. Texas 6-1-0 1007 6. Penn State 6·1-0 869 7. Alabama 7-1-1 861 8. North Carolina 7-1-0 767 9. Arizona State 7-1-0 658 
10. Southern Methodist 7-1·0 626 11. Nebraska 6-2·0 625 12. Michigan 6-2-0 554 13. Miami (Florida) 5-2·0 427 14. Florida State 6-2·0 415 15. Miss1ss1ppi State 6-2-0 411 16. Washington 7-t-0 388 17. Oklahoma 4-2-1 280 1B. Ohio State 6-2-0 267 19. Arkansas 6·2·0 199 20. Southern MISSISSippi 6·0-1 153 
NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE NATIONAL CONFERENCE 

East  
W  L  T  Pet.  PF  PA  
Dallas  7  2  0 .77B  214 181  
Philadelphia  7  2  0 .778  197 129  
N.Y. Giants  5  4  0 .556  171  147  i  
St. Louis  3  6  0  .333  179 251  
Washington  3  6  0  .333  177 212  
Central  
Minnesota  5  4  0 .556  205 218  
Tampa Bay  5  4  0  .556  163 138  
Detroit  4  5  0 .444  210 190  
Green Bay  3  6  0 .333  170 208  

Chicago 2 7 0 222 136 21 West San Francisco 
7 2 0 .778 208 15 Atlanta 
5 4 0 .556 263 17 Los Angeles 5 4 0 .556 214 19 New Orleans 
2 7 0 .222 108 20 
AMERICAN CONFERENCE East 
W L T Pet. PF p~ 
Miami 6 2 1 .722 213 16~ Buffalo 6 3 0 .667 203 141 N.Y. Jets 4 4 1 .500 191 209 New England 2 7 0 .222 207 210 Baltimore 1 8 0 .111 158 296 Central CinCinnati 6 3 0 .667 228 176 Pittsburgh 5 4 0 .556 188 175 Cleveland 4 5 0 .444 163 194 Houston 4 5 0 .444 159 197 West 
Kansas City 6 3 0 .667 227 185 San Diego 6 3 0 .667 275 207 Denver 6 3 0 .667 173 129 Oakland 4 5 0 .444 125 150 Seattle 2 7 0 .222 128 205 
THE ZAHM COFFEEHOUSE IS OPEN 

VOLUNTEERS IN DIOCESAN ACTION 
EVERY THURSDAY FOR YOUR EXIs­

.. 
Please help Rita. Call 41-4522. GIVE TO UNITED WAY NOV. 1·8. 
(VIDA) REPRESENTATIVE TO 
TENTIAL PLEASURE. OFFERING THE

I NOTICES I ~---~ 
FAIR SHARE $2.00 OR MORE RECRUIT IN MEMORIAL LIBRARY 
FINEST IN LIVE ENTERTAINMENT,

need 2 Georgia Tech tix Call Colleen4-1· SEE YOUR SECTION LEADER. 
CONCOURSE ON FRIDAY, NOV. 6 
COFFEE, TEA, HOMEMADE DONUTS, 
4908 FROM 9:30 to 3:30. 
FREE POPCORN AND PAT GALLAG·

USED BOOK SHOP....HOURS WED.. I FOR RENT ] 
........................ 
HER. COME DOWN AND SEE IF OUR

HEY TEX. MY CATTLERANCHER DAD· RIDERS NEEDED -To Oes Moines or
SAT., SUN. 9-7. CASPERSON. 1303 ............. . Dribble, dribble, drive, drive, flick, scoop, 
PROFESSIONAL CONVER­

BUCHANAN RD., NILES. UGLY DUCKLING RENT A CAR. FROM DY NEEDS 2 GEORGIA TECH GA'S. at long I-BO West. Leaving Thursday, Nov. score... 
SATIONALISTS ARE PAlO ENOUGH. 

. . ... $7.95 A 01\Y & WEEKEND SPECIALS WILL TOP BEST OFFER CALL MARK 5, at 1 :00 p.m. and returning on Sunday. 
9-12 EVERY THURSDAY NIGHT, ZAHM

OVERSEAS JOBS Summer/year AVAILABLE. CALL259-8459. 3895. Call John at 6510. TO OUR FAVORITE STEDS FROM 
BASEMENT.

round. Europe, S.Amer., Australia, Asia. ED'S: You're a bunch of sexy extroverts, All fields. $500-$1200 monthly. Sightsee-FURNISHED APARTMENT FOfl RENT: · Georg1a Tech GA's for sale. Call Man at WANTED Part-Time Waitress. Apply in We really think you're great! You're ing. Free info. Write IJC. Box 52-IN-4, 2 Bedrooms. carpeted, pnvate entrance, 232-0921 person ONLY from 12 to 7PM. 130 energetic--newly studious, Meeting you UNITED WAY 
Corona Del Mar, CA 92625. nice neighborhood, near bus term1nal. Dix1eway S. South Bend · SHANGHAI was fate. Be()jluse you're all so sweet to UNITED WAY 
$250 per month, including utilities. Call Need 2 GA Tix for Saturday. Call8209 or RESTAURANT" 
us We'd like to recompense--We really UNITED WAY TYPING SERVICE , call684·4125 GIVE YOUR FAIR SHARE 
Bob. 287-9003, after 4:30. B493 after 10:00 p.m. and ask for Joe. 

love you all a bunch You make a lot of Go Irish· Beat S.I.U.E.IIII 
S.E.N.S.E.!-Love. Your Lewis Ladies, NOV.l-8.
WANTED: TWO GEORGIA TECH GA'S.
MALE ROO'AMATE NEEDED FOR FUR­K.A., L.F., A. G., C. A. 
NISHED APARTMENT. $110/MONTH CALL TIGHE AT 232-2578. 

To Karen, (the Newton cheerleader) Love EXPERIENCED TYPIST WILL DO UTILITIES PAID 287-5469 
to see you again soon Hawkeye 412. Dear Chas. Kevm. Randy, -Southern TYPING. CALL287·5162. 
NEED GA TIXS FOR GEORGIA TECH-­

\LOST/FOUND I 
Comfort,Crutches,Japan Man,ApeFAMILY VISITING FIRST & ONLY TIME What does Sus1e Vasta, alias Lawanda Caii,Sinatra,Biack Eye and Sruises,G.O.
at NO--PLEASE HELP! CALL ANN at N.D. Field Hockey No.1 !!I 
Rodngiez, say after a night of Rum and Picture,Stepan,Shirley's,Strobex7960 OR x7524 ANYTIME BEFORE 
More Rum?? BZZZZZZZZ!!!!! Light, Decorations,Abuse, Paulette's LOST: AE-1 CANON CAMERA DURING 
SAT.!
1"-----W_A_N_TE_D~] 

Cheese,lt's Auburn,Pineapple _I NEED 2 GA's for Geogia Tech for v1siting USC WEEKEND. IF FOUND PLEASE I want to meet Evil again. Shakes.NICE DATES STUPID! -parents. Call the Madman. John E. at
DESPERATELY need 1 student tiCketCALL 2968 REWARD!!! 

The Philosopher Thanks for the fun night, 8437 cause I gots lots of MONEY. This
RIDE NEEDED TO LONG ISLAND FOR and 2 G.A 's for GA. TECH. Call Doug 

Kathy,Paulene,and Lisa advertisement courtesy of the 714 Club. LOST: One Mamiya flash attachment 
THANKSGIVING!! CAN LEAVE AS EAR· 1057 

NEEDED: R1de to and from ELO concert near LeMans Hall on HaUbween mght. If 
LY AS MONDAY AFTERNOON. WILL 

at Ch1cago Stadium Thurs.. Nov. 5, You guys. there really 1s a tune!! DESPERATELY NEED tickets to PSU SHARE USUAL CALL PHIL AT 827B. Need ONE GEORGIA TECH student tick· found, please ca114379 at SMC. 
leaving around 5:00. Will share driving, game. W1ll buy outnght and/or trade for a et. Call 8621. 
expenses. If you can help, PLEASE call ride to PSU. Call Fran at 4385 after 6PM. 
MH · Hope you enjoyed the party Sat.
lost-Ugh! brown tweed sports Jacket at the RIDE NEEDED TO LIMA, COLUMBUS, Angela at x 3794. 
OR FINDLAY, OHIO -WEEKEND OF Need two Ga. Tech tix for my dead cats nile, I sure did ! Happy Halloween ITS
Regma screw-your· roommate. The 
DON'T SELL YOUR GEORGIA TECH name of John Mesmer IS on the 1nside 
NOV 6-8 CALL MARK 3243 (It'S their wedding present) Brian 8395 

With PC losing It in JW's car and MS TICKET!!!!! Donate it to send a Logan
K of C MEETING TONIGHT 7 pm. OURlining. If found call 8892 or return to 115 
losing it behind the bar, it's hard to Center child to the game. Tickets w111 be 
Zahm. wa1tresses and walters needed good Need PSU tickets. Call 232-9596. BUILDING ALL KNIGHTS PLEASE AT· 
believe that KD is still looking lor vir· collected this week in the Dining Halls. 
working conditions and good pay must be TEND 
gins this weekend. Stay tuned to "As Off-campus students can drop them off at FOUND: Dig1tal watch near Lew1s on Oc­21 and have tansportation call277·1541 NEED 4 GA'S FOR GA. TECH. CALL JIM th6 Fruit Fly Turns" lor more develop­the Student Activities Office--2nd floor
at 3331. NO CALLS AFTER MIDNITE HI! MY NAME IS TOM D.l NEED A DATE tober 30. Identify to claim. 8621 
ments. LaFortune.
DESPERATELY FOR THE GRACETO ANY AND ALL PITTSBURGH 
Found: A bracelet in Lyons Hall after Sat. SWEETHEARTS: If you're driving home HELP! NEED 1 G.A. FOR GEORGIA 3 Chartreuse Buzzards!!! HALL FORMAL. LOOKS DO NOT 
TECH PLEASE CALL 3125 COUNT, ONLY PERSONALITY. fF IN·
nite· Halloween party. call 7865 to identify. for Thanksgiving and want a rider who's -We were shellaced but now we shallTERESTED PLEASE CALL 1619. 
good company, and Will share usual. give To the girl1n the red and blue sweater who 
shellac!! Leanne a call!! Call 7076. I'll leave NEED 4 GA PENN ST TIX. CALL PERRY sat on the goalline wall beneath the stu· 
FOUND: One pig, goes by name of Ar­
anyt1me!!l AT 287-6381 AFTER 6 PM dent section. We saw you 1n our We've gona believe!! N.D.F.H. WIN 
nold, approximately four 1nches in height. binoculars and know that you saw us. REGIONALS!!I He'shome! NeedaridetoChampaign,ll, onFrlday6. NEED PENN STATE TIX--1 or 2 GAs or Would like to meet you, please contact According to a very reliable source, Beth WouldiU.eto,..,turnonSaturday7.Pieas• STUDENT. CALL JOHN 1947. M1ke /Jim 8921. Holloway has pretty eyes! 
SHOW SOMEONE YOU CARE WITH A Lost a SOLID STATE ELECTRONICS MONTH OF FLOWERS. A BOUQUET
caUPatx/J6()1. 

Need THREE GA TICKETS FOR GA. c~~n~~~~r~~9;;,i····
BOOK. by Streetman. Please call B330 OF FRESH FLOWERS DELIVERED and ask for Jay. I lost it in Hayes-Healy. I EVERY 4 WEEKS. VASE INCLUDED IN
WANTED: An Individual is needed to oc· TECH. CALL 258·0030 BETWEEN 8:00 

cannot replace this book, please return it. casionally drive another college student AND 1 2:00PM ASK FOR DOUG. Hey BETH SULLIVAN, What has four THE FIRST DELIVERY WEDNESDAYS please!!! I NEED 2 GA'S FOR GA. TECH on an on-call basis, usually days. Call WILL PAY BUCKS; CALL JOE 8866
walls w1th nothmg ms1de? FLOWERS 289-1211 
Sandy 234-3871 after 7 pm. I NEED 1 TICKET TO GENESIS CON­LOST CERT! MUST BE 1ST OR 2ND ROW.

ONE TAN WALLET; SATURDAY AP· HAPPY B·DAY TONY MUSCt Toooo Penny! Eat Cheesecake!!! 
Help!!Ill need three (3) G. A.'s for the
CALL3122

PROX. 11:00 AM; IF FOUND CALL JtM ..................... 
Georgia Tech game. II you can help,

AT x8286; REWARD IF FOUND To John "Action" Rashid, -HAPPY Fun!?! WOW! Good clean fun!! Hey you 
call Tree at6784. BIRTHDAY to the only guy that never kids, get away from that mule!!! LOST! a Seik~-g~ld,:,;;rist watch -before FOR SALE SEATS! Will Pay$$$ call: Steve 1816 tned anything on me. -Daune 
break. If found call3122 for reward! Release your angUISh! Everyb<ody use Wanted GA Tickets, PENN STATE. Call Need 2 Ga Tech GA's MUST BE GOOD 
I STILL need some TECH GAs for Sat .... lf 

To John the A-rab, Happy B·day you body language!! I Pat8892 
COUCHES $30 and up, CHAIRS $5 ana you can help, please call JE$$, 8659 

FOUND: One key with large key ring. Call camel-jockey!!! We hope the next person 
·····································
up. Call Mrs. Cooper at 272-3004 after 12 

Mike at 8567 to claim. staining your sheets will be "hurtin"'. -Da~ry Queen Power!ll noon Free delivery to dorm. HELP! NEED GAs FOR GEORGIA 
The Sauceror and The Barbecue K1d. REWARDI!! HAS ANYONE SEEN A TECH. CALL 41-4687 
MEMBERS OF THE FOX DEN TROOP LITTLE BROWN MOUSE NAMED
Need tix for Penn State. Call Stan, 3006 or x69 LOST A FEW THINGS ON THEIR HEMAN VERMIN IN THE VICINITY OF
If all else fails: When you can't beat 'em, 3008. cheat 'em!! 
RECENT OUTING. THE MISPLACED CARROLL? GOES WILD TO THE BEAT ITEMS ARE 1 BLOW UP WHISKEY TICKETS · Penn St. ticket wani~cl ~l~ase call Donna OF JUMPIN' JACK FLASH." IF SEEN BOTTLE, PEARLS, 1 EARING,5 BOYS· It,_!_P_E_R_S_O_N_A__l_S__1 at6771 PLEASE CALL 47091MMEDIATELY. 
SHELLEY H. -The candy, flowers and
GOUT CAPS,7 .... WHILE MAINTAINING ................................., ..........................
halloween treats are only a beg1nn1ng.POSITION AND PERFORMANCE AND 2 Tooooby ·Hit the Bawl!!! HELP!!!I'LL DEFINITELY KILL MYSELF
What I'd really like is to meet you and
CAMERAS 35MM KONICA & VIVITAR GROUCHY FAMILY HAS NEVER BEEN ROOMMATE WANTED to share a com­IF I DON'T GET SEVERAL GEORGIA
have dinner.But then that would ruin all
W/fNITIALS TAM IF YOU KNOW THE TO GAME Need 5 GEORGIA TECH GAs pletely furnished apt. (inc. CABLE T.V.) w~i~t, C3;a~~ i-i~1i ;;~;~~~-F-i~~~~;~~~;9i,i TECH GA'SI!!!IPLEASE SAVE MY LIFE.­
the mystery,wouldn't it? 
WHEREABOUTS CALL 4688 SMC Call Chris 232-2649 $$$ close to N.D. call Dave at 283-1169 on Cartier at 8:00! · CALL 1009 

The Observer -Sports Wednesday, November 4, 1981 -page 9 \. ­
29th straight loss? 
Northw-estern tries again 

CIIICA<JO ( AP) -Michigan State Coach frank "Muddy" \X'atcc'r~ i:. the: kind. tathnly typt· who finds himsdf in "an unenviable" position when his Spartans Saturday arc expected to tag Northwestern with a record­setting 29th straight defeat. 
The Wildcats last Saturday lost to Wisconsin 52-0. It was their 2Hth straight defeat and left them with a share of the record held hy Kansas State and Viq~inia among major col­leges. 
"It'~ an unenviable position," Waters told the Chicago Football Writers Tuc:.day in a tt:lephone in· tt·rvkw. "I havt.· mixed feelings about it. We don't want to he a party to that ret·ord hut if we lose that's 
WO~t.·. 
"There's no joy in seeing anybody Sl'l that kind of record,'' he said. "it's too had people ha,·c to keep track of things like that. 
"Northwestern hasn't found the magic li>rrnula and lacks ex­peric•Ked personnel," Waters said. "Still, wt·'rc not in a position to be 
' ovt.·rconlidcnt. \X t.·'re still hungry. We'll not he down for Northwe!>­tern." Waters' words wt•rc takt·n in by :\lorthwestt·rn rookie Coach Dennis Cireen who ti>Und no consolation in the fat·t that the Wildcat streak had n·achcd 20 ddcats hdon: he took the coaching rein:.. "I didn't think of the 20-gamc losing streak when I took the joh," said (irt·en. "not that that would han· madt· any difl'crcncc. Sure this team b only 0-H hut somebody has to mop up. "Wt·'ve lost 2H games for a reason," Green said. "Tht· program b not where it should he in this con­ference. I'm proud to be at Northwestern. By no means did I take the job with my t.•ycs dosed. We have to keep our nose to the grindstont·. W c have to make an et: tiJrt every wct·k." Cirecn said he'll haw a group of prospective rt·cruits at Saturday's game. 
r 
NAVY RECRUITING 
If you desire financial assistance
' 

scholarship, or guaranteed job opportunities upon graduation; then you should enter 
12-13 NOVEMBER 
as an importa·nt date in your calendar That is the day we are providing info and interviews in all areas of: 
·AVIATION ·ENGINEERING 
·PERSONNEL MANAGEMENT. 
at Notre Dame. Salaries start from $16,000 increasing to $27,500--$40,000 in 4 years. Openings also available in: 
·Materials management ·Business administration ·Nuclear engineering 
·Doctors · ·Nurses ·Lawyers 
For more info or appointment for interview call 317-269-6197 or 1-800-382-9404, ext. 6197 
"Some pcopk have told me 'No, not now.· " said Grt·cn. "But wtry not? Let them sec how tht·y can lit in. Every game start:-. zero-to-zero al· though it is hard to believe." 
The losing streak might have been halted in the season opener when Northwestern scored late in the game against Indiana to make it 21­
20. Instead of going for the tic, Green opted for two points hut the Wildcats tailed. 
In rt·trospect would Green now have gone for the kick and a possible tic? 
"As soon as Wl' missed the two­
• 
continuedfrom page 10 
front, with Reggie Theus and a 
healthy Ronnie Lester in tht· back­
court. Awesome. 
Instead, the Bulls must tlnd an al­ternative. They've got to save face, and their draft choice. 
"We could let him sit out the whole year," ponders Thorn. "But that's not a good alternative for us or for him. I don't think it would ever COml~ to that." 
Of course it wouldn't. Woolridge: would go back in tht.· draft pool. and Chicago would get zippo. 
"If it comes to a total impasse," Thorn admits, "I think you'd have to look at a trade. He has a lot of value because ofhis potential." 
That potential has increast•d since last year's NCAA playoff.~. At practice last week, Woolridge appeared to he about an inch talkr, and players say he has incrcast·d his vertical leap hy at least a coupk of incht~s. His upper body is even more well-developed than it was when he was here. 
"Teams that were interested in 
him before the draft are still in­
terest<:d. I hope w.t· don't have to 
trade him. But it we're at a total im­
passe... " point play l wanted to go back but it was too late," :.aid Green. "But we felt we had a shot at it. I'd rather tic than lose but, then, I would rather $ win than tit:." 


As a result, the television net­works will be doing interviews on the Northwestern campus this week and the Wildcats will be in the col­lege football focus Saturday. 

Buttons saying "Stop Statt· at 28" <. arc being distributed. But that will he difficult. Michigan State is coming on strong having won two of its last three games with the loss being a 27­26 decision to powcrfi•l Purdue. 
• • Orlando 
So Orlando Woolridge waits. 
One day there is talk that the Bulls an· ready to give in; the next day he is convinced that he's going to bt' traded. probably to San Diego or Clevdand. The following day things arc up in the air again. 
In the meantime, Woolridge is working out, staying in shape. All he wants, ht· says, is a chance to play. It's all he's ever wanted. 
• • • Faust 
continuedfrom page 12 
that Greg gives us is alittle more speed." 

One thing the: coaches arc very plt:ast·d with is the injury situation -almost everyone walked off the field one hundred percent. Faust, too, ha.~ re(;overed from the tall he took against USC. "Yeah. I wa~ able to run out of the tunnel Saturday," -­he laughed. "I told the team you gut­ta be tough in this game -I coached with pain, so they can play with pain." 
Homer Lautrec Chagall Seurat Wyeth Van Gogh Gauguin Klee 
ART PRINT SALE 

OVER 100 

PERFECT 
MASTER ARllSTS 

WAIL DECORfiTIONS 
MATTING 

GREAT GIFTS 
AVAILABLE 
-
1"""1

LaFortune Student ...enter 3 days only 



. / 
....._ 
-
The Observer-Sports 

Seniorjan Yurgealitis, the Irish's front row specialist, came off the bench to makefour kills out ofher nine spikes i11 her last home game. See jane Healy's story on page I 2. (photo by Cheryl Ertelt) 
(joodcompanyis whatyou make it. Somakeitspecial, with (jeneral'FoodsCfntemational eoffees. 
Wednesday, November 4, 1981-page 10 
continuedfrom page 12 

On the other side of the black· 
board, the Irish offense has ex· 
ploded for 45 first-quarter points, 
their highest point production in 
any quarter. 

SOCCER HOPEFULS -Rich Hun· ter's Irish soccer ttam is currentlv rated sixth in the Great Lakts Region, and a win over Bowling Green on Thursday could very well clinch a berth in the NCAA tourna­ment. Bowling Green is rated fourth in the region, with Wisconsin-Green Bay tifth, but the latter is on NCAA probation. An Irish win should thus vault them into at least fourth place, and guarantee an NCAA bid. 
FIGURED IT OUT? -Hint num· her two...Mi<:higan is not one of the teams. There are no Big Ten teams involved. 
SHOW STOPPER -Irish All· American Bob Crable, who was more than a casual acquaintance of Navy running hack Eddie Meyers last week (only 39 yards in 18 carries), is only 16 tackles short of the Notre Dame record for most career tackles by a linebacker. Bob Golic ( 1975·78) owns the school :-randard of 479 stops while Crable trails with 463. 109 this year. Even 
more impressively, Crable has led the :'llotre Dame defense in tackles in 28 of the 30 games he has started in an Irish uniform. 
A TOUCH OF CLASS -It takes quite a man to admit his mistakes. and Irish coach Tom Backhus showed what he was made of this wetk. After failing to introduce tight end Pete Buchanan at last Friday's :'llavy pep rall, Backhus sent a letter to The Observer. part of which is quoted below: 
"I made a terrible mistake in not introducing Pete Buchanan with the players I coach. 
"There are a nlimber of people I want to apologize to for this mistake. I want to apologize to the students and Notre Dame friends of Pete, for he exemplifies every good quality this University stands for. I apologize to his teammates, because Pete Buc­hanan is as fioe a team player as there is. I apologize to his parents, because he is a young man they have every right to be proud of. 
"However, most ofall, I apologize to Pete, a man who deserves the very best out oflife, who will experience just that, and who I hope in years down the road, to be considered a friend." 
STILL DON'T HAVE IT? -The third and final quiz hint...Three of the four teams have played Notre 
• • • Items 
Dame within the last year. 
GRID·DINI:'IIG-The 1981 Notre Dame football banquet will be held December I 0 in the ACC. Tickets may bt: reservt:d by calling Rich Sherman of the :'>Jotre Dame Club of St. Joe Valley at 282-2393 or 272· 
58~f7. 
TURNER TRIBUTE -The Ob­server Landon Turner Fund is dose to the S I 000 mark, thanks to a very generous weekend. Over S150 was collected at Friday's pep rally, and $400 was collected at the ACC on Saturday morning when Digger Phelps opened basketball practice before the ti>othall game. In fact, Phelps even stopped the scrimmage ·with 23 seconds remaining to ex­plain to those watching what the Fund was all about and how much donations were appreciated. 
THE ENVELOPE PLEASE -The four teams whkh have won all four major bowl games are Georgia Tech, Georgia, Alabama and Notre Dame. The Irish thumped Stanford 27-10 in the 1925 Rose Bowl; beat Texas 24· I 1 in the '71 Cotton Bowl, 38·10 in the '78 classic and Houston 35-34 in the '79 affair; held offAlabama 13·11 in the '75 Orange Bowl; and nipped the Crimson Tide 24-23 to earn the national championship in the '73 
Sugar Bowl. 
Story
ing. Woolridge and his agent, Larry ~ Fleischer, are asking for a lot of money. That cannot be disputed. However, the price they are asking is still between the salaries going to the players chosen one pick ahead and one pick behind Woolridge in last spring's NBA draft. 
The Bulls argue that Woolridge is unproven, and not worth the es· timated s;so,ooo, guaranteed for four years, that he's asking for. But Danny Vranes is getting about $400,000 a year for being the fifth pick overall, and Steve Johnson is getting roughly S300,000 a year for being the seventh man to go. Nfit· her ofthem is a proven star. 

The powers-that-be in the Bulls organization say they are determined to bring a winner to Chicago. But they also say that NBA owners should work to bring down intlated player salaries. 
"Players mal<e roo much money," they say from their Ivory Tower. "Somebody has to take a stand against this madness. Somebody has to teach pro sports team owners a lesson. and we're just the guys to do it." 
Give me a break. 
It's a little known fact, but two of the pan-owners of the Bulls are Lamar Hunt, and that greatest of all over-spenders, George Steinbren· m:r! 
Orlando Woolridge has simply become tht: latest victim of the Ebenct:zer Scrooge of the NHA. Ar· rhur Wirtz..The Bull~ principal owner make~ the Wrigleys look like Andrt:w Carnt:gie. 
"That's a lTiti<.:ism wt''vt· heard 
before," admit~ Thorn. 
So, tt looks vt:ry unlikely that the 
Bulls will ~ign \X'oolridgt:. That'~ too 
had. hn:ause tht:y need him. as a 
pl.1yer. and as :t a dra\ving card. 
"We do nn~d anoth<..-r forwar<.1.·· 
Thorn ~ay~. "Tht: kague is tougher 
thi~ year. Wt·'re going to have to bt: 
better. 'We can't he just the same as 
we were last year." 
How rrue. Chicago was almost 
there. They hear the Knicks in the 
play-oft~. and playt·d Boston,.tougher 
than anyone evtr expected hdl>re 
being eliminated. Woolridge could 
very wdl have made the difference. 
Imagine it. Artis Gilmore, David 
Greenwood, and Woolridge up 
See ORLANDO, page 9 

~--~-----~-~-~----------~----------~ 
The Observer_~-=-~= ================== -=="~' -======= 
~~c:llC3L~~===========================~==e=d=n~e=sd:a:r:':N:o:v:e:m:b:e:r:4:,:1:9:8:1:::p:a:g:e:l~l 
Molarity 
1.. W4.1JT TO 4C:.T M!\RFIIE~ 
THAT TI)/\)AH[AI> I~ CJV!>T I'M IN/..OV£ .. ,8UTTHATJC:.FfK 
60 661-FI?H, OBNOXIOUS, I~ t>O UNB£AIY\BL[ 111AUJ4Y6 
DEHANDI/\16, .. , CJOOHH hJANTING, IT 6 OJ.JN JERKY IJA, Y 

Doonesbury 
11/ti.L, UiiTfNANT; I 1Vi: YeAH, 8tffl 7HINK!N6 ITOVeR, zcKeI ANI) I 1VC OECtWfKlT w 







The Daily Crosswor~ 
©1981 by Chicago Tribune-N.Y. News Synd. Inc. All Rights Reserved 


, Y6U TER~Ot\'l~r. Pur ... I 13fT YOO AIN'T fV£AI 
1
STlJ DEAlT" . l t:T5 "f>ff YOU(( G. f. Fi'IIT! r""T I 1~1 ')
IS f\MERICf\ NOW ! 
ANO AMf'RKA ·~ ~1\t 
TO ... HER.£ TD ... 
" 

: Go out to dinner with George McGovern! : 
e Win the Student Union Lottery and be the one • 
person to dine whh him before his speech on : Thursday Nov.5. Sign up at front desk in the SU: 
office before 7 pm Wednesday Nov. 4. e 
cGovern will speak on "Conservatism in America'l 
I 


Michael Molinelli 
Campus 
•8 a.m.-4 p.m. -art print sale, Iafortune lobby 
•9 a.m.-~:30 p.m -book sale, new, recent books at discount, memorial library concourse 
•12:1 
S p.m.-seminar, "secretion ofplasminogen activators by cultured tumor cells", dr. sham-yuau chan, 278 galvin auditorium, sponsored by microbiology department 

•4:20 
p.m. colloquium, "physics and geometry", peter fecund, university of chicago, 118 nieuwland science hall, sponsored by physics department 

•4:30 
p.m. -navy and marine ceremony, memorial library auditorium 

•6 
p.m. -meeting, second semester internships, counseling and career development center, smc, student activities conference room 

•7 
p.m. -meeting, smc abroad summer progranrs, 232 moreau hall 



•7 p.m. -presentation, scott paper company's controllers program, center for continuing educa­tion, sponsored by beta alpha psi, reception to fol­low 
•7 
p.m. -lecture, "women in the church", sr. marietta starrie, c.s.j., hayes healy auditorium, sponso~ed by campus ministry, 

•7:30, 
9:30 p.m. -film, "no nukes", o'laughlin auditorium, smc, S1.SO 

•7:30 
p.m. -slide and lecture in french, "three masters of the fantastic: bosch, magritte, dali", clau, .:: verdier, paris, sponsored by alliance fran­caise de south bend and department of modern languages 

•7:30 
p.m. -talk, mary distanislao, lyons chapel, 


all are invited

Jeb Cashin 
•8 p.m. -lecture, "what is a chemical laser?", dr. 
..• TO ~TftY .. 

george c. pimentel, cce auditorium, sponsored by
I'M :iORR'{ I MAN. IT'S. A CO/JO ITIOAJEJ) RE5fhiJ~E ... :lOME ­
department ofchemistry 

TIMES I L(J~ CoNTI1.DL ... 1'1-1 ... 
•9:00 p.m. -meeting, fellowship of christian ath­
I'M REALLY 'ld<!l.Y. 

letes, howard hall social space, all are invited 
Television Tonight 
Wednesday, November 4 
7:0'1p.m.  
51 Asiatic capital  19 Welcome Gobi spots  7:30p.m.  
52 Diagram  24 Demler­ 
55 Simian  25 Notorious  
56 Rorschach  26 Novelist  
feature 59 Surrepti- Lagerlof 27 Cover-up  8:00p.m.  
tiousogler  name  
61 Slush  28 Landed  
62 AMaxwell  estate  
63 Diacritical  29 Mixed drink  
mark  30 Creator of  8:30p.m.  
64 Peruvian  Adam Bede  
native  31  Before  
65 -vital  active  9:0vp.m.  
66 Mock  and grade  
67 Monarch  34 Light unit  
37 Kitchen  
DOWN 1 School admlnls­ utensil 39 Savior 42 Ruth's  9:30p.m. !O:OOp.m.  
trator  in-law  
2 Woody's son  44 Zodiac sign  
3 Gobblers 4 Compliance 5 Most tiny  47 Candlestick Park team 49 Knuckle  !0:30p.m. ll:OOp.m.  
6 Think the  under  
world of  51 Porcelain  
7 Double­ 52 Graf­ 
curve  53 Cubicle  
molding  54 "-jolly  11:30p.m.  
8 Leprechaun  good ... "  
9 Motto  55 Salt tree  
10 Operate  57 Killer  
against  whale  !2:00a.m.  
11 Mideast gulf  58 -jerker  
12 Trifling  60 Ingredient  !2:30a.m.  
13 Tortoise  of29 D  

16 MASH 22 CBS News 28 Joker's Wild 34 The MacNeil/Lehrer Report 46 Message For The Hour 16 Allin The Family 22 Family Feud 28 Tic Ta~; Dough 34 Straight Talk 46 Oral Roberts 16 Real People 22 Mr. Merlin 28 Greatest American Hero 
34 Play It Again, George 46 Lester Sumrall Teaching 22 WKRP In Cincinnati 34 Satchmo 46 The Renewed Mind 16 Facts OfUfe 22 CBS Movie: "The Other Victim" 28 The Fall Guy 46 Today With Lester Sumrall 16 Love, Sidney 16 Quincy 28 Dynasty 34 Masterpiece Theatre 46 Calvary Temple 46 Michiana Today 16 NewsCenter 16 22 22 Eyewitness News 28 Newswatch 28 34 The Dick Cavett Show 46 Praise The Lord 16 Tonight Show 22 WKRP/Feature Movie 28 ABC News Nightline 
34 Captioned ABC News 28 Love Boat 46 Lester Sumrall Teaching 16 Tomorrow Coast To Coast 46 The Renewed Mind 
... 
._, 
ACROSS 1 Computer printout 5 Shoestrings 10 Stage 
auntie 14 Cupid 15 Romantic 
Interlude 16 Same 17 Charity 18 Nonsense 20 Record 21 Refrain 
syllable 22 Puton 
weight 23 Dutch­25 Tightly 
shut 
26 French 
philosopher 28 Shark 32 BPOE 
member 33 Muslim 
faith 35 Purloined 36 Whoppers 38 TV part 40 Exhale 41 Cousin of 
64A 43 Cover girl 45 Heart 46 Calming 
Influence 48 Explorer Hernando 50 Originate 
Tuesday's Solution 

11/4/81 


... 

Wednesday, November 4, 1981 -page 12 
Miami game rescheduled 
"best since" performances on the scoreboard last week: 

HURRICANES RESCHEDULED ABC-TV has elected to move Notre Dame's season-ending show­down with Miami to Friday, November 27, the day after Thanksgiving. ABC officials have set the game for a 3 
p.m. EST start in the Orange Bowl. 
Thus, the Penn State-Notre Dame game will not be televise<) by ABC, allowing Penn State to appear against Alabama or Pitt, and allowing ABC to broadcast the Oklahoma-Nebraska. USC-UCLA or Michigan-Ohio State battles on Nove~ber 21. 
WRECKS RAMBLE IN -Saturday's Irish dash with Georgia Tech marks the 30th and l;tst time that the two teams face off, since the Yellow Jackets enter the Atlan­tic Coast Conference next season. The Irish own a 24-4­
1 edge in the all-time series and have won nine of the last 11 games. 
Georgia Tech had originally appeared on the Irish slate in 1982 and '83, but their entrance into the ACC forced the Irish to drop those two games and pencil Pittsburgh into the open slots. 
LIKE KISSING YOUR SISTER -Georgia Tech pulled what had to be the upset oflast year's football campaign when they tied Notre Dame 3-3 in Atlanta. The Irish were 7-0 going into the game and had earned the na­tion's number one ranking the week before after a convincing 33-0 triumph over Navy. The Irish managed 252 yards of total offense while limiting the Yellow 
Jackets to 140, but a 47-yard Harry Oliver field goal late 
in the last quarter salvaged the tie for Notre Dame and 
kept them unbeaten. 
Ironically, Georgia Tech invades Notre Dame 
Stadium with that same 1-7 record, while the Irish are 
riding high from a convincing 38-0 victory over Navy. 
Let's hope there is no deja vu. 
BOWLING FOR DOLLARS -This year's first (and 
possibly last) Irish Items Sports Quiz: Name the four 
NCAA teams which have won each of the four major 
bowl games (Sugar, Cotton, Orange and Rose Bowl). 
The answer appears at the end ofthe column. 
HOME, SWEET, HOME -Heading into the final home contest of the 1981 season, the Irish boast a 181­52-3 (.773) record in Notre Dame Stadium. The Irish are 9-2 vs. Georgia Tech in the facility, 13-2 on the Notre Dame campus, and have not lost to the Yellow Jackets here since a 14-10 setback in 1959. 
SENIOR WEEK -Heading into their last game in 
Notre Dame Stadium, the senior class owns a 28-13-1 
overall record and 16-6ledger in Notre Dame Stadium. 
Only three seniors started for the Irish last week: 
linebacker Bob C.rable, right tackle Phil Pozderac and 
cornerback john Krimm. Classmate Kevin Griffith also 
opened at right end, but due to a previous injury he will 
be eligible for another year ofplay. 
HIGH MARKS -The Irish established several more season-high performances against Navy, as was probab-
ByJANE HEALEY 
Sports Writer 
The last appearance at home for the Notre Dame women's volleyball team resulted in a split decision. The night began with Notre Dame losing to Purdue University-Calumet in three games, 1 1-15, 15-10, and 5-15. The Irish then came back to beat Bethel College after being down by seven points,12-1 5, 1 5-6, and I 5-8. The team's record is 15-20 going in­to the State Tournament at Val­paraiso next weekend. 
The entire tri-match was dedicated to the two seniors on the team, Kathleen Dages and Jan Yur­gealitis. Flowers were presented to both girls by the players and by the Varsity Crowd before the first match. 
Dages' return to the line-up was one of the highlights of the night. Dages has been out of action for close to six weeks with an ankle in­jury she received early in the season. Her cast was cut otr last week with this game being the culmination ofa week ofrehabilitation and practice. 
Another highlight of the match was the performance of the players off the bench. In particular, sopho­more Terese Henken and freshman Julia Pearson entered the game at key moments to spark the Irish of­fense. Henken exhibited her power hitting and able blockingskills while Iy expected. Notre Dame's 249 passing yards was the most since Rusty Lisch and Tim Koegel combined for 321 yards at Tennessee in 1979, and its 442 yards of total offense was the best since the 509 yards the Irish gained against Michigan State in 1980 (half of which belonged to Phil Carter). !'lotre Dame scored three touchdowns on passes for the first time since the last game ofthe 1977 regular season. 

On the individual side, Blair Kiel enjoyed his second straight career-best performance, completing 13 of 23 passes for 225 yards, the most yards by an Irish quarter­back since Lisch's 248 yards in that same Tennessee game. Freshman joe Howard, starting his first game for the Irish, caught five passes for 11 5 yards, the most real estate earned by an Irish receiver since Tony Hunter caught five passes for 131 yards against Southern Cal during his freshman year in 1979. 
GIVING UP? -Here is the first hint for the quiz...No, USC is not one ofthe teams. In fact, there are no Pac-1 0 schools. 
PUTTING OUT -The Irish also had several other 
•They 
shut out an opponent in three straight games for the first time since the Irish blanked North Carolina in 1965, '66 and '71. 

•They 
recorded their biggest shutout over Navy since a 47-0 victory here in 1969. 

•They 
enjoyed their biggest winning margin over Navy ( 38 points) since notching a 56-7 victory in 1970. 

•They 
scored 38 points in a game, the best offensive output since a 40-15 win over Miami in 1979. 

•They 
won a game by 38 points, their best margin of victory since a 48-10 triumph over Miami in 1977. 


DON'T CROSS THIS LINE -The Irish defense main· tained their unblemished first-quarter record during Saturday's shutout. Notre Dame's defense has not been scored upon in the first quarter this season and has only been nicked in the first frame of three of the last 24 regular season games. In that span, the Irish have sur­rendered only 19 points in the first 15-minutesegment. 
See ITEMS, page 10 


Women 's volleyball 
Notre Dame splits tri-match 
Pearson proved that she. possesses all-around agility in the front row. 
Serving was a key factor in both matches for the Irish. Against Purdue-Calumet, the Irish threw 13 serves out of bounds or into the net and ended up losing the match. Against Bethel, Notre Dame received power serving by both Mo Morin and Josie Maternowski. The two connected for an 80 percent success rate and a total of five clean aces. 
Yet, the passing on the night was not good. The Irish, as a team, passed with only 50 percent accuracy. This percentage is extremely low when compared to its 80 percent passing accuracy earlier in the season. The decline in passing seems to have caused a slump for the Irish. They have won only three matches in their last nine. 
Coach Van Slager seems to feel that the problem is rooted in the lack ofpractice time. " We've played so many mat.s:hes and we've been on the road for so long that we never get a chance to practice. We just keep playing games. As a result, our fundamental skills have really suf­fered." 
Defensive specialist Jackie Pagley expl~ins, "It has a lot to do with con­centration. Ifthe concentration isn't there, the pass won't flow. Without the pass, you just can't start any kind of offense, which makes it impos­sible to win." The matches last night demonstrated the truth of Pagley's statements. The Irish will now have one day in the gym to try and remedy their problems before the next tri-match at Lake Michigan Col­lege against the host team and Sout­heatern Michigan College. 

Gerry Faust thanks the student body for their support, as be ac­cepts the Waterford Bowl in recognition ofNotre Dame's victory over Navy. (photo by Rachel Blount) 
Faust says big plays ~ I
key to Irish victory 
By KELLY SULLIVAN 
Sports Writer 
Saturday's big win over Navy gave the Irish coaching staff plenty of reasons to be optimistic about the football team's progress. But a lot of people are still asking, 'Is it fair to measure Notre Dame's improve­ment against an opponent like Navy?.' 
"The jury will be out on us and everyone else until the season's over," answered Gerry Faust yester­day. "But I still think we looked precise, we hit very well, we ex­ecuted well and we were exciting." 
The reason for all that excite­ment? "We finally broke some big plays," explained Faust. With Notre Dame's revamped line-up, the Irish now have a deep threat in three posi­tions, split end, tight end and wingback. "And that's going to make a difference in how teams defense us now," he added. 
Because the offense registered their highest score of the season, many fans walked away from the Stadium Saturday thinking the Irish abandoned their somewhat con­servative attack overnight. In fact, 
Faust and his staff called for only one 
more pass play in the Navy game 
than they did against USC, but more 
were completed and three were for 
touchdowns. 
·"That's what people remember," offered offensive coordinator Tom Lichtenberg. "Most people probably think all of a sudden we decided to just come out and throw, but we didn't go into that game with any more ideas offensively than to just be sound and execute better." 
Lichtenberg stressed the point that much of the improvement can be credited to two factors: the quar· terbacks are reading the defenses better and the receivers are running their routes better. "It's not that we haven't wanted to open up the of­
fense all along," he insisted. "But fac­tors like the injuries, the transition, the other team's defense -that dictates what you can and can't do." 
If the Irish hope to keep produc­also running at number two tailback behind Phil Carter. "When you've got good athletes, you try to get them in the ball game as often as you can," he added. "And one thing 
See FAUST, page 9 






