Outside Wednesday page6 

VOL XVI, NO. 12 an mdependent student newspaper serving notre dame and saint mary's WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 9. 1981 
Begin arrives in U.S., discusses package 
tack nn the ~alt' while he is in tht> 
WASHINGTON ( AP) -Israeli United States. "It will be a low-keyPrimt· Minister Menachem Begin approach," he said. 
and his top Cabint·t ministers Other top issut·s on the agenda in­arrived yesterday for talks with clude the resumption in two weeks President Reagan that could seal the of Israeli-Egyptian negotiations on fate of the administration's em­Palestinian autonomy and the out­battled $H. c; billion arms package for look for the current ceasefire in 
Saudi Arabia. 
Lebanon. The Israeli government
Rea~an, who will be meeting 
has voiced concern about the rearm­
Begin for the first time, apparently is ing of Palestinian guerrillas in the prepared to offer the Israeli leader south by Libya and other Arab sup­closer military links with the United porters of the Palestine Liberation States, possibly Including access to Organization.

intelligence information gathered Reagan called in Secretary ofState by American reconnaissance 
Alexander M. Haig Jr. and Defense 
satellites. 
Secretary Caspar Weinberger for Administration officials hope lunch yesterday to prepare for his Begin will muffle his opposition to meetings with Begin.
the Saudi arms sale, which faces a The Israeli leader, meanwhile,dose vote next month in Congress. 
planned a quiet day at Blair House,
"This <.'Ould be a milestone in 

the presidential guest quartersstrengthening our relationship," a Notre Dame Athletic Director, Gene CoTTiRtm,
across Pennsylvania Avenue from st·nior oft'icial told reporters yester­met with the Hall President's Council last niRht.
the White House. day. He said that while Reagan will He was cheered on his arrival At their weekly HPC meetinR, Mr. CoTTiRan dis-not offer a defense alliance -which 
from New York by hundreds ofsup­Begin has long wanted -other porters of Israel who gathered on a 

measures arc being considered. Football weekends
street corner carrying friendly signs Thest· indutle storing equipment in and singing songs. Eleanor Parness, a Israel for American forces to use in music teacher, played an accordian 
an emergency. 
to lead her 6th grade students from 

ID's needed to enter ND halls
"We both agree on the Soviet the Charles E. Smith Jewish Daythreat, direl'tly anti indirectly," said School in Rockville, Md. 
Students Oft'ice.

the official, who refused to be iden­"It stems from the concern of the
The five Airborne Warning and By BOB VONDERHEIDE 

tified by name or job. The directive, effective 7 p.m. rectors that on horne football
Cotol System planes Reagan wants News Staff Friday, dictates that only one door of

Begin, who is on his 12th visit to weekt·nds a lot of vandalism was 
to sell Saudi Arabia are able to scan 

the United States, has criticized the each hall will be open and that a occuring," said the l·hairperson of
air operations for 200 miles. The In an attempt to reduce theft and Saudi arms sale as "endangering very memher of the hall staff will he sta­the Rectors Committet·, Brotht·r 
arms deal also would include equip­vandalism on home football 
seriously the security of Israel." He tioned at the door making sure that Pete Mahoney. "It's not a sort ofges­
ment to enhance the range and weekends, Notre Dame hall staffs is expt·cted to reiterate this position only ND-SMC students anti their tapo approach. We just thought we
firepower of the 62 F-I c; jet fighters will only allow Notre Dame and 
wht·n he sees Reagan today. registered guests enter. ntTdt·tl somt· way of kt·eping tht·
the linited States will sell the Saudis Saint Mary's students and their regis­
But an Israeli official, who insisted Any ND-SMC student unknown to outsiders out."
beginning in 19H3. That equipment tered guests to enter residence halls 
on anonymity, said Begin docs not as mandated by a the hall staff member on duty will Tht· rectors citt·d three major
would make the Saudi fighters on those nights, have to show an ID card in order to for

plan to mount a full-scale public at-reasons the new directive,
capable of reaching Israeli territory. recent directive from the· Dean of 
enter the hall. according to Zaum Rector Fatht·r The new policy will be in effect Thomas King. In addition to stokn for all future home football weekend propt·rty and vandalism, tht· rectors (both Friday and Saturday) nights. wt•rt· contTrnt·tl about the It-gal The purpose of the directive is to probkrns stt·mming from untleragt· stop outsiders from stealing stu­high school stutlt·nts crashing 
AngelIsland 
Chinese recall uglypast 
dents' property anti money and to parties. prevent future hall vandalism. "Anybody has htTn abk to walk 

filmmaker from San Francisco who is interviewing Although Dean of Students James into those halls," said Dean of Stu­By FRANCES d'EMILIO detainees for a television documentary. Roemer and Vice-President for Stu­dents James· Roemt•r. "(Tht• nt·w Asoclatetl Press Writer Chow. a state transportation engineer. stands in what dent Affairs father John Van tlirectivt·) will giw tht· hall residt·nts 
was the men's dormitory on an island whose hilly paths Wolvlear signed the directive, the tht· assuran<.'t' that there art•n't stran-
ANGEL ISLAND STATE PARK, Calif. (AP) -"Angel and secluded coves in the middle ofSan Francisco Bay rectors themselves suggested that See ID's page 4 Island. Shhh'" I heard that so much from my father, it's now draw cyclists, hikers and hoaters. the policy be drafted. almost like one word. "AngdlslandShhh1" On the peeling walls of the dormitory are poems in 
Paul Chow vividly recalls his father's admonition. Be­Chinese, written by immigrants to express'outrage anti tween 19 I 0 and 1940, some 7'i,OOO Chinese came to anguish. 

NAACP~s Wilkins 
the llnitt·d States. Most, including the elder Chow, The immigrants called this place "The Island." awaited entrv to Gam Saan -the Golden Mountain, as "Angc:l" set·ms to mock memories like those held vivid­they called (~alifornia · at the li.S. Immigration Station ·lv hv Howard Tom. 
dies at age 80 
on Angel Island. · T;lrn was a bewildered I4 year-old when he arrived Like better-known Ellis Island in New York Harbor, on Angel Island in 1922. His father was a naturalized lJ.S. 
Reagan lt-d the tributes, declaring:NEW YORK ( AP) -Roy Wilkins, whne legions of citizen who returned to China to get his wife, Howard "Roy Wilkins worked for etjuality, who helped lead the civil rightsand a baby son.

Europeans _first saw WEDNESDAY-spokl· for freedom and marchnl for
movement to its great legal andtheir prom1setl land, .. ·. His family was "separated within two hours. We justice. llis quiet and unassuminglegislative victories ofthe 19'i0s anddidn't have a chance to say goodhye." Torn recalls lying



FOcus
Angd Island was t_he manner masked his trenu·ndous pas­
1960s as head of the NAACP, diedfirst stop for As1an on hi.~ bunk in the I<Kked dormitory, day-dreaming of simi thr civil and human rights."
yesterday of kidney failure. He waspals in China.
immigrants. iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii.. The Rn. Joseph Lowny, presi­
HO.
But many recall Through an interpreter. an immigration offidal dent of tht• Southern ChristianWilkins entered New York llni­thdr stav with onlv bitterness. 
separately grilled him and his parents, seeking to Leatkrship Conference, laudnlTht·v .were lot·knl up likt· criminals. Thev skpt vnsity Hospital on Aug. I H w1th car­
detnminc if thev were, indeed, a familv. 
Wilkins a' "a statesman, ~chohtr andst;Kkt·d on stt-cl hunks six hi~o:h. Tht• reward for rebel­diac problems and had heen in and
"!low t;tr fro~ your house to your neighhor's?" they servant in tht· area ofcivil rights." 
out of intensive Girt'. Two and a halflion was a hare windm.\"lt·ss closet. 
each were asked. Wilkins' assets -a cool, low key
!·or dt·ctdes this shahhy chapter 111 Anwrit"an historv three .ol us gan· wrong I years earlier at the sanll' hospnal, he
"The all the answer. 
and ~cholarly manner anti his open
Ia\ virtuallv UIH'xaminnl. Humiliated Chinese­had a pacemaker implanted to cor
,trt'lchcd mv hand out to reprt·~ent so many feet. I lines oft ornmunication with tht• n;t­
A~t-rKan~ ~ ncarlv all of those who entl'fetl at Angel rect an irregular heartht·at.
didn't tdl tl~t· interpreter how many feet each arm tu)IJ's powt'r t"l'lltt·rs also hrou~hl
bland wt·n· Chine~~ -would not speak of it. A funeral servkc w1ll he held
(length) represented," he said. him and the NAA( :p criticism from
Friday at I I a.m., in the Communitylit-sides, manv had entered with false papers, "paper The farnilv was detained for two weeks and released firt·brantl activists in the latter years.
sons" whost· do~·uments made them sons of merchants, Church of New York. said tht· Na­
only when a. Chinese minister in San Francisco vouched Tht·y called tht• association ir­teat·ht·rs and ! '.S. citizens. Those wen· the privileged, tional Association for the Advance­
for them. relevant anti Wilkins an establish-
exempted under the Chinese Exclusion Act of IHH2. ment of Colored People.
"After 40 some otltl years," Tom visited the island as mt·nt tool.
the firM L'.S. law to deny entry to a specific t·thnic group. Wilkins was NAACP exet·utive 
part ofa special tour. "I was really upset." 
Wilkins had always hct·n \1/illing
director f(Jr the last 22 of his 46
Now tht• unpleasant story is heing told -by Chow, There are some Chint·se who say the period is too to he arrested to l'hangt' a law, butyears with the 4'i0,000 member, in­whose Angt'l Island Immigration Station Historical Ad­painful to relive. Genny Lim, who wrote a history ofthe ht· oppost·d lawless disorder. hlacktegrated civil rights organization. Hevisor.· Committet· wants a museum created in the era, says a "prominent, older" Chinese-American separatism and hlat'k power as
retired in July 1977.
deca~ing barracks, last used in 1940. 
See CHINESE, page 4 See WILKINS, page 4
From the White House, PresidentAnd told bv Ft:licia Lowe, a Chinese-American 




News Brie/§ l 
c 

bv Tilt Ohrl'rt'rr and ThP A.r.rociated Prcrs 
Annedwith a knife'an unidentified male was foiled in an attack attempt on a female NO student last night near Campus View apartments, St. Joseph's County police said. The student told police 
she was walking along Dunn Road ncar the complex at about 8:30p.m. when she was pushed in the bushes. The assailant was apparently scared off, however, and ran from the scene, police said. They described the assailant as a black male between I 5 and 16 years ofage, '5 feet, 8 inches tall, and wearing a white and green jersey. They said the youth, who wore a baseball cap, had bushy hair. -The Obsen,er 
Former Gov. Georgec. Wallace says he won't announce his political plans until "after the first of the year." Wallace reportedly has been urged by supporters to seck an unprecedented fourth term as governor in 1982.. He promised a decision next year during a Labor Day rally in Saraland in south Alabama. "I'm not even thinking about the.governor's race at the present time at all," he said. "In fact, I don't know what I'm going to do. 'Til decide about that, maybe, after the first of the year." Wallace. 62, made a similar appearance earlier Mon· dav in Tuscaloosa. -AP 
Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini said yesterday that leftist guerrillas might bomb Iran's Parliament and that it is to the regime's advantage to suffer assassinations. But he declared the attacks "cannot stop the roaring sea of the revolution." "I have recently told (Parliament Speaker Hashemi) Rafsanjani the Majlis (parliament) is important and is certainly a target. Those responsible for its security should be persons known and trusted 100 percent," Khomeini said. He added, however, that government opponents "have lost hope and are finished," and consequently they ·were likely to undertake desperate acts "like the cat which attacks the lion." Since President Abolhassan Bani-Sadr was ousted June 22, the guerrillas have been 
assassinating leading members of Khomeini's regime and other political · clerics at the rate ofmore than one a day. -AP 
Mattie Miller,an 83-year-old widow, was shocked to learn that someone had stolen her vacant two-story brick building one night. But it didn't surprise city officials, who say thieves are demolish· ingold buildings all over town and selling the bricks. James Malleck, an assistant corporation counsel in the division of housing and com· munity renewal actions, said brick pickers may be working on as many as 10 sites daily, making offwith old-style Chicago bricks which are no longer made and are much in demand. "We've got brick stealers, all right," John Dean, director of demolition for the city, said Tuesday. "Mostly in demand arc dark red bricks common in the Chicago area. They came for clay pits on the Northwest Side and there seems to be a good market for them down South. Also in demand are bricks oflight brown that came from pits on the South Side. They are wanted in the Southeast and Southwest." -AP 
Tom Robbins, the flamboyant, freethinking, anti· 
establishment novelist and self-styled guru, has been convicted of 
treason to his own cause. Robbins is guilty of practicing "cultural 
Reaganism," says a jury that deliberated at Seattle's Bumbcrshoot fes­
tival Monday night. The audience w·as warned in advance that the trial 
would be based on "unfounded evidence, keyhole rumor and 
anonymous hearsay." Robbins' detractors used medieval trial hv 
dunking to convict the author of "Even Cowgirls Get The Blues,;, 
"Another Roadside Attraction" and "Still Life with Woodpecker." If a 
copy of"Another Roadside Attraction" floated in a fish bowl, he would 
be found innocent. Ifit sank, he was guilty. It sank. The trial was staged 
by Invisible Seattle -a small group of literari -to protest a Robbins 
article called "The Cult of the Rude Meets the City of the Nice." He 
wrote ofSeattle's ruination by "Manhattan transfers and Beverlv Hills 
rejects" who believe the chic must be rude. His detractors d~fincd 
"cultural Reganism" as "oversimplification and supply-side sociology, 
smug ignorance and fear of the outside world, contempt of one's 
public, and an attempt to be a cowboy from the good old days." Rob· 
bins didn't show up for his trial. -AP 
Itwill beayear before two inventors unveil a heat box the size of two shoe boxes which they claim can warm a I,300 square-foot home for 4g cents a day. Residents of this mi~ing community just north of the· Washington state border can't wait to see it. They figure the mystery device is either the greatest discovery since fire or a hoax. When Bob McCarthy and Brian Kelly announced the discovery last January, they told only one man -Rossland Mayor Hill Profili -how it works. Profili signed a statement saying it was legitimate. Since January, the inventors have moved to London, Ontario, where they set 
up a company called Rossland Research and asked the llnivcrsity of 
Western Ontario to run a market analysis. McCarthy said in a recent 
telephone interview that he and Kelly are trying to decide whether to 
present the invention to an international trade show or bring it home 
to Rossland for its unveiling. The inventiqn has been patented in 
Canada and the United States and they have one year to acquire a 
world-wide patent. They say they don't want to unveil the box before 
then, fearing they'll lose it to corporations with more money to 
develop it. -AP 
Nobel Peace Prize winner Mairead corrigan. co· founder of Northern Ireland's "Peace People" movement, was married yesterday. Miss Corrigan andJackie Maguire were married in a baroque church of San Silvestro. Maguire is the widower of Miss Corrigan's sister, Anne, who commited suicide last year. The Rev. Thomas Ryan said the couple married in Rome so they could have a quiet ceremony. Two witnesses, Anne Horgan of New Rochelle, N.Y., and Betty Heilig, of Rome, N.Y., both members of Peace People, were the only guests. Miss Corrigan shared the Peace Prize with Betty Wil· Iiams in 1976 for their efforts to bring peace to Northern Ireland. ­
AP 
Mostly sunnyand cool today. High in the low 70s. Fair tonight with the low in the mid '50s ..\1ostly sunny tomorrow with the high in the mid to upper ""~(b. -AP 
Wednesday, September 9, 1981 -page 2 
================================~ 
I 

SMC needs social space 
Looking hack on the three years I've been at Saint Mary's College, I can honestly say that I have enjoyed it. The education I am receiving is far above average, the friendships I have established are secure and the atmos­phere as a whole has helped me obtain a satisfying per· sonal growth. Yes, there have been some things at the College that have not made my world as utopian as it 
could have been. I honestly feel that Saint Mary's has much to offer any woman wlho is seriously interested in furthering her education, however, I also believe that the College is lacking in areas concerning social growth. 
The social interaction between males and females at the College is unnatural. What it really comes down to is that Saint Mary's does not provide a place on campus for men and women to gather as friends other than in the dining halls during the dinner hour and in dorm rooms on the weekends between the hours of6p.m. and 
2a.m. 
I have moved off·campus as a senior to seek a more 
relaxed social atmophere. But where does that leave 
the other 1800 students who still live on campus? 
This year the Murphy Administration is working toward a more relaxed atmosphere for social interac­tion at Saint Mary's College. Student Body President Eileen Murphy and the Saint Mary's Board of Gover­nance have established a Parietal Ad· Hoc committee to try to satisfy the needs of all the students on campus. 
So far, the Committee has sent a survey to 3S colleges across the country that are in the same situation as Saint Mary's (all female, relatively the same size, etc.) asking how they deal with their parietal system. Eight colleges have returned their surveys with various responses. 
A student survey will soon he distributed on campus asking students how they feel about the College's parie­tal system. Murphy stated that as a whole. students like 
r-The_ObserYer__ Design Editor........ ..........Grt.·g A. Swit:rcz Design Assistants. .. .. Pollv Hudak Tim ~edy Typesetter... ...... Ron Jot.· .Veu•s J:.'ditor . ................ \tarv Agnc:s Carey Copy Editor........................... Vakri~ Evan> Sports (:opv Editor ........ ~li.:hacl Ortman TJ•pist... .. ......J~anin~ tlvn~s .\'J•stems Control ................ llru<:~ Oakln .VD Da)' Editor. ..................... Paul .\lcGinn SMC Day Editor... .. ... :1-lary Kav llo~an t!d Design .lloh Slota Mary "It's m~. Mom" Tor<:hia Pbotograpber............................John Ma.:or. Guest Appearances. Nobody who counts  
The Obeerver (USPS 598 920) 1s published Monday through Fnday ~nd on home football Saturdays. except dunng exam and vacat1on penods. The ObNrve~ IS publ1 shed by the students of Notre Dame and Sa~nt Marys College. Subscnptlons may be purchased fo• $25 per year ($1 5 per semester) by wntlng The Obeerver, P 0 Box 0. Notre Dame, lnd1ana 46556 The Obeerwr IS a member of The AMOCI8ted Preu. All reproduction nghts an9 reserved  

~-------------~-----------,1
RIVER CITY RECORDS 
Northern Indiana's largest Selection of Albums & Tapes. I 
Why poy more any place else? I 
I 

$1.00 OFFrny 
regular record or tape with ad. 1 Limit 1 per person 1 
Expires Oct. 1 , 1981 I 
50970 US 31 North eOpen till 10 every night I 3 miles North of Campus eND/SMC checks casbed I next to Al's Supermarket up to $20 over I purchase amount 
I 

277-4242 • Record Crates available 

--------------------------· 
'r----------------------------, 

Copp 
One Block South of Memorial Hospital 

IC CENTER 
INCORPORATED 
Established 1906 ------' 
Banjos

Guitars & Accessories Recorders &
Harmonicas Pianos & Organs Penny Whistles Sheet Music 
10 % OFF EVERYTHING WITH THIS AD! NO LIMIT 
·I 434 North Main Street-South Bend-233-1838 
I . 
-----------------------------~ 

the idea of parietals. but feel that the hours need to be changed to promote a more relaxed social interaction. 
Depending on how students respond to the surveys will determine if the Ad-Hoc Committee will continue with their efforts to extend visitation hours. 
Perhaps parietals are not that bad, especially at a 
female institution, but update the current visiting hours 
and provide for more social space other than dining 
halls and dorm rooms on the weekends. 
With the building of the new Saint Mary's library 
which will be completed this spring the current library 
will he vacant. Students like myselfhave asked for more 
social space on campus. And what better way can there 
\ 
\ 
1J[)JJJf!; 
fJ/.JM 

be to create more social space than to make the old library a student union' This proposal has been presented to those responsible for allocating space from the old library, however, their decision has not yet been finalized. 
The updating of the current parietal hours and the building of a student union may be the answer to the unnatural male/female social interaction on campus. It is important that the students work with the administra­tion so that they realize how badly these alterations are needed. 
After all, Saint Mary's is here for the students. not the 
administration. If these slight changes were made, 
maybe fewer people would feel the need to move off· 
camp!fs to seek a more relaxed male/female social at· 
mospherc. 

Wednesday, September 9, 1981-page 3
The Observer 
t 




REGULAR OR LIGHT-112 BARREL 
NIKOFF VODKA 
1.75 


99
LITER 

BURGUNDY, CHABLIS, RHINE, VIN ROSE, PINK CHABLIS 
3.0 LITER 


99 6 pack 12 pack 6 pack 12 pack Olympia $2.29 $4.39 
Michelob Light Miller 
6 pack 12 pack ~' Miller Lite Blatz $2.19 $4.19 Natural Light Budweiser $2.39 $4.59 Old Milwaukee Busch $2.39 $4.59 Old Style 
$1.99 $3.79
Falstaff $2.09 $3.99
Hamm's 

$2.69 $5.19
Michelob 

$2.69 $5.19 Olympia Gold $2.29 $4.39 $2.39 $4.59 Pabst $2.29 $4.39 $2.39 $4.59
$2.39 $4.59 Schlitz $2.39 $4.59 Strohs $2.39 $4.59 $2.09 $3.99 Weideman $2.09 $3.99 $2.29 $4.39 
699
SEVEN-UP, DIET 7-UP, COKE, TAB, :our
Cho1c~ 

PEPSI, DIET PEPSI, MOUNTAIN DEW Caae 
129
PERRIER WATER ______ --__ • _--______ 3 PACK 
SPIRITS SUPERMARKETS: • 1621 So. B1nd A¥1., SOUTH BEND, 233-4603 • 6502 Gr1p1 Rd., MISHAWAKA, 277-7176 • 200 N. M1in St., ELKHART, 295-6310 
• 254 Di1l1 Hwy. N., ROSELAND, 272-2522 • 1910 Uncolnw1y E., SOUTH BEND 233-8430 SPIRITS MINI MARKETS: • 1426 Mish1w1k1 An., 287-7744 • 4401 S. Mlchi11n, 291-2600 • 2934 E. McKinley An., 233-9466 • 1725 N. Ironwood, 272-1144 
PRICES GOOD THRU SEPT. 14 WHILE QUANTITIES LAST 
• 
DELIVERY AVAILABLE 
STORE HOURS: 

• GIFT CERTIFICATES AVAILABLE
Mon.·Thura. 9 a.m.-10 p.m. Fri. & Sat. 9 a.m.· II p.m. • CHECK OUR IN-STORE SPECIALS 
The Observer Wednesday, September 9, 1981 -page 4 



................................................... 
Roseland Aquatics Birds. Tropical Fish. 
Hamsters. Pet Supplies We have small African Chiclids 
lOAM to 8 PM Open on Sundays soon 415 Dixieway North, at Roseland, South Bend, Ind. 219 -277-4862 
................................................... 
O'Sullivan. "But in the long run, it will cut down on vandalism. Most guys, though, don't know about it and it'll hit them in the face come Friday." 
"Right now it's on a trial basis," said Farley RA Sue O'Loughlin, "so 1 definitely think it's worth a try. But I'm not sure it is as important in the girls' dorms as it is in the guys'." 
"I know Morrisey ha!> gotten hit kind of hard,'" said Morrisey RA Rob Suttman. "I'm glad they're doing something to protect us." 
But some ItA's aren't so glad. They feel that giving up a football weekend night to watch a door is asking a bit much. The Cavanaugh Hall staff, fo1· example, still has not decided how it will implement the policy. 
Despite the problems, Father Richard Conyers of Keenan Hall thinks the policy is needed "before something serious occurs." 
c:hinese 

continuedfrom page I 
woman was horrified by the idea oftourists, calling it "exploitation." 
The storv is ugly. Detainee~ recount suicide~ not mentioned in official record!>. :vlodest Chinese women. shocked by la<.:k of privacy in toilet~. l'O\Tred their head~ with bags. 
This history began to unfold in 1970. thanks to Alan Weiss, then a ranger on the island. Weiss noticed characters carved on the walls and showed them to superiors. 
"No one was interested," said Weiss during a recent tour with Chow's group. So he invited a scholar who determined that they 
were the poems of Chinese im­
migrants. Enthusiastic Asian­
American college students then 
began to pry loose the island's his­
tory. 
Restoration work goes slowly. A 
state grant of 5322,000 is exhausted, 
and $1 million more is needed. 
Chow doesn't want to rush the 
project. Yet. "Patience grows thin 
when I sec people dying" before 
they can visit the island. He wants 
survivors of the detention to be 
purged emotionally, as his father 
was when he returned in 1956. 
"He stood before his bunk and 
cried. 'Today I can walk in and 
forgive America,"' Chow recalls him 
saying. "He walked home with me 
and he was free." 
Wtrfl 17/t? AtJe:sr ~ry/Ht::-A-r.5 h2oN1 /)tcl<~to. se.u:cr ,qoN{: !J!(~rwu~sr ;Jo~Jsll SAtlsAGG;
L

lbrl)r;6.S, 1../IM/&t~~ A4 rnq 
~ CoM..ItH1


Attorney General Linley E. Pearson said yesterday t the dispute over who owns the Ohio River is "a political matter," as far as Kentucky is con­cerned. 
Indiana, Kentucky and Ohio have 
been locked in a legal battle for years over ownership of the river which separates the three states. 
The United States Supreme Court supposedly settled the matter in 
1980 when it ruled that the bound­ary was the low water mark of the river as it stood in l 792, the year Kentucky became a state. 
But that decision just started a new round of court battles to determine where the river ran near­ly 200 years ago. 
At stake in the dispute. Pearson said, are rights of ownership includ­ing the ability to grant construction and dredging permits, land use con­trol and collection of money from fishing licenses and boating permits. 
"This is very serious to u~." Pear­son said yesterday at the first of five public hearings on the issue. "But for matter." 
Pearson said the hearings, which will be held this week and next in Cannelton, New Albany, Lawren­ceburg and Madison, are to gather information from landowners along the river and explain the state's posi­
tion. 
• 
w;tk;ns

• • I! I! 
continuedfrom page I 
preached by such militants as Stoke­ly Carmichael during the urban and campus upheavals of the '60s. 
"The whole point of the NAACP was to establish the Negro as a legal entity with the rights and privileges ofa citizen,'' he said. 
It was characteristic that he con­tinued to say "Negro" for a long time after the term "black." which had once been an epithet. wa~ adopted by other!> of his race. 
~--------------------------· 
THE IBM PERSONAL COMPUTER 
;WIJ P1uell-lflo~t:, ,,.~ ~ ~ruH;t.E.Sift£ Msll t ~ !1/Uct:.s.. ­-, 0 9AJ.N1US Atl~ l-5~-99.21 oPci\J 'I'IO 5" Mi')' SA-T. /IL }Jocw 

IS HERE!!!  
-II  
Come to the presentation:  l  
Thursday, September 10  I!·I  
at 1:00 p.m.  
ND  Library Auditorium  


·---------------~--------~-­

The Observer Wednesday, September 9, 1981 -page 5 
SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 12th -7pm 
The 

Cfllhil GJJand 
and 

LITTLE ONES 
Phil Keaggy 
CHORUS 

Who will speak up for the little .ones Helpless and half abandoned They've got a right to choose Life they don't want to lose I've got to speak up won't you 

Equal rights equal time For the unborn children Their precious lives are on the line How can we be rid of them Passing laws passing out Bills and new amendments Pay the cost and turn about And face the young defendants 


This Advertisement is sponsored by: THE SPIRITUAL ROCK OF NOTRE DAME RIGHT TO LIFE-Notre Dame Chapter GURLEY-LEEP BUICK, DODGE, MERCEDES-BENZ 
STEPAN CENTER, NOTRE DAME 
Advance Tickets sS -s6 At The Door 
StudentUnionTicket Office 
Half of the auditorium will have space for festival seating. For more information, please call (219) 283-1088. 
Call (6400) WSND, AM 64 and request to hear Daniel Amos and the Phil Keaggy Band. 
CHORUS 

Many come and many go Conceived but not delivered The toll is astronomical Oh how can we be indifferent Little hands little feet Tears for him who made you Should all on Earth forsake you now Yet he'll never forsake you 
CHORUS 

Forming hearts forming minds Quenched before awakened For so many deliberate crimes The Earth will soon be shaken Little hands little feet Tears for him who made you Should all on Earth forsake you now Yet he'll never forsake you 
Wednesday, September 9, 1981 -page 6
Editorials 
-----------------------------------------------------~~~--~--~-----~----~~~-1. 
Everyone's jumping on conservative bandwagon ••• now 
Tbe best lack all convicti<m, while the worst Arefit// ofpassionate intensity. 
-W.B. Yeats 

That opening epigram aptly 
deSLTibes the current political climate 
in America. It has been interesting to 
watch the developing Reagan ad­
ministration as it assumes control of 
the federal government and imple­
ments its policies. I have very mixed 
feelings about the first eight months 
of Reagan as president, but l must 
say that I'm pleasantly surprised by 
some of his results, and basically 
satisfied that the government is in 
competent, ifnot capable , hands . 
In fact , Reagan has exhibited a 
stunning mastery of certain aspects 
of government, these being, among 
others, brilliant manipulation of the 
media, solid PR among his con­
stituents, control of the 'hostile' 
legislature , and , in some respects, 
ne<.."'ded roreign policy toughness that 
even opponents must admire and 
learn from . But on the home front , 
Reagan policies have left something 
to he desired . And while this comes 
as no surprise, there are other more 
distwbing aspects of the country's 
shift to the right . 
What bothers me the most is the 
way that most ofthe politicians have 
rolled over and played dead, allow­
ing Reagan to impose or eliminate 
virtually any program that he wishes. 
Whatever happened to bipartisan ex­
change, debate, and cci""mpromise? A 
good example of this is the tax 
About the Author: Anthooy Wal­ton. a senior English major from Batavia, Ill., returns for a second year to write "Outside Wednesday" for The ObserVei-'s editorial page. Walton, recently named the paper's Features editor, bas won several major University poetry awards and is also co-editor of the Juggler, the campus literary magazine. His Wed­nesday column tvill appear on a bi­weeklybasis, ormore often ifbe is so inspired. 
"debate" of last summer. Reagan refused to listen to any sort of Democratic compromise ofkr, and when it looked as if the Democratic tax plan, which favored those tax­payers below S50,000 per year in­stead of 'those above 550,000 per year as did Reagan's, the Republicans resorted to a television ad campaign that bonkred on the slanderous, an ingenious, thougll 
rigged, telephone call-in campaign, and utilized Reagan's talents as a per­suasive ·television personality to scare southern Democrats into voting ror the Republican plan. 
It's obvious that the Republicans mean business, and they are very vo­cal about it. When this is all over and done with, no one will he able to say that they're surprised. That's one thing I do admire about this ad­ministration; they're honest. They an: pro-rich and pro-corporation and they make no bones about it . They also want to change(in most cases set the clock back) the social fabric of the country. Blacks' Work hard, shut up,andwaityourrum. Women? Stay home and raise your family like a real woman. But none of this is any big secret. And most people are either scared or selfish enough to let them get away with it. 
I don't blame the Republicans ror 

their use ofthe media and their main 
the left. There was a booming economy, what seemed to be endless growth , and a restlessness on the part of both the gov<:rnment and the populace which led to an iltmosphere ofgenerosity and optimism. 
There was plenty to go around, so people were willing to give. This economic ladder gave many the op­portunity to make real gains in their standards of living, and it seemed that it was only a matter of time berore government solved the problems ofeveryone . 
But I would also say that the lad­
der ofopportunity has not been fully 
extendt.xl to all Americans (blacks. 
Hispanics, women, etc.) and that 
pulling it up now is an aL"t 
hypocrisy. 0 f the m;my con­
servatives( and liberals)who claim to 
be 'self-made' men, 90 p<."'"Cent 
would have to admit that Democratic 
policies got them where they are. If 
--=-\d= 
v 
r~ ~~o 
(  \~  -~ \~~1  \~~\~~\ \  
~ 
c"'  rl  
1 v[-(j  L  

~~-~Q...l.... 
weapon , Reagan, in order to get their tax plan passed. What I'm wonder­ing is where was the opposition? Where were the 'liberals' who should have been standing up ror their ideals and programs? Most of them were hiding under rocks trying to save their political hides. And so, while liberals lament the coming of the New Right, they also stand by with­out putting up any kind ofoppostion. 
It's funny, because an solid majority ofregistered voters(50 percent to 35 percent) consider themselves Democrats. 
But , as it is becoming more evi­dent everyday, labels no longer describe anything in politics. What we are seeing is a reassessment ofso­cial priorities and goals on the part of both liberals and conservatives: in times of economic hardship, everyone becomes a right -winger. 
And the most vocal ofthe right-wing 
become the policy makers. The same 
thing happened in the 60's, only on 
Ronald Reagan was really as poor as he would like to make us think, where would he be now without policies such as the New Deal? How many Republicans that are now screaming ror the dismantling of government got their educations through the G I Bill. bought their first homes(which probably quintupled in value) with the aid of Federal Housing Authority loans, drive to their exclusive suburbs on tederally constructed interstates and expres­
sways, and enjoy v:acations at tederal water projects and the like? How many rich tobacco farm<;rs are kept that way by tederal price supports? 1lle list is endless . 
What it comes down to is this: it is 
time ror Democrats and liberal 
Republicans to stand up and be 
counted. The alternative is to endure 
public policy as it is envisioned by 
men like Jerry Falwell and Richard 
Viguerie. One of Falwell's favorite 
tricks is to get on television with a 
WHC appeals for fasters 
By most estimates, more than 500 million people-roughly one out of every nine -suffer from serious malnutrition today, compared with 100 million to 200 million-one out of 14-25 people in the 1950s. 
The New York Times. Aug. 16, 
1981. 

At the outset of every semester, 
the World Hunger Coalition appeals 
to the students of Notre Dame and 
Saint Mary's to sacrifice their Wed­
nesday lunches. The dining halls in 
return will donate mo~y ($.75 per 
faster per meal at ND and $.45 at 
SMC) to the World Hunger Coali­
tion. All of the funds the Coalition 
obtains through the fasting program 
are directly contributed to numerous 
hunger relief projects from 
Bangladesh to Chile to the Southeast Neighborhood Center in South Bend. The Hunger Coalition corresponds frequently with many of the most heavily supported programs and are, therefore, ensured of their validity. 
Throughout the year the World Hunger Coalitin will sponsor several speakers, . conferences, and other educational programs. A debate has been tentatively scheduled for early next semester pitting the Nestle Cor­poration against INFACT (Infant Formula Action Coalition). The sub­ject matter will focus on the ethics of 
Nestle's marketing tactics of their in­
fant milk formula in the Third World. 
Today and tomorrow of this week, 
NO and SMC students will have the 
opportunity to sign up for the fast. 
Tables will be set up in all of the 

dorms and dining halls for this 
lun Lucke 
purpose. The purpose of this fasting program is not only to raise money, but also to raise campus awareness of world hunger through our own slight suffering on Wednesday afternoons. 
This program has been successful in the past, but the Hunger Coalition would like to make this semester the most productive ever. 
Jim Lucke, a junior living in Stan­ford Hall, is the Fast Director ofthe ND-SMC World Hunger Coalition. 
copy of the New Yom Times and say 
"Now I have in my hand over 27 
pages of want ads. I ask you , how can there be unemployment in this country?'' 
Is America as mean -spirited as it now seems' Consider the new per· sonal property limits given to recipients o public aid: the Reagan administration has just decided that 
SlOOO is the limit. Personal property includes appliances, clothes, and personal cfk:L"ts. I catl think of several friends of mine who have SlOOO in their stereos. The purpose of this property limit is to encourage 
Anthony Wolton 
Outside Wednesday 
people to ''liquidate their household 
before going on public aid." A 
Department of Human Services 
spokesman said just that. This kind 
ofcallousness can only be explained 
by ignorance or greed . If liberals 
have any hope of stemming the 
''conservative tide,'' they had better 
getserious. 
Reagan in for rough autumn 
It is always salutary to see ar­rogance and power taking a nose dive. But the Reagan people seem to be overdoing it. The moral they point is so apt as to look contrived. Their downfall comes -as in the legen­dary Chinese curse -from getting what they wanted. The spring tri­
umphs have turned by their own energies into autumn humiliations. 
President Reagan was able to power through his tax reductions and budget slashes. Within mqnths of his inauguration, all three of his economic measures were in place: supply-side largesse, fiscal restraint and monetary stinginess. The crowing could be heard throughout the land. Tip O'Neill was prostrate in the dust, and Republicans lined up to give him another kick. 
Even at that moment there were ironies. Reagan's power was being celebrated. The weak presidency was re-imperialized. Laments over con­gressional uppityness turned to con­cern over its impotence. The man who promised to get government off our back beca111e a Ron on our back, overriding the representatives of the 
people with his triumphant new vi­sion. 
But it often happeQs that, just when a president feels he is asserting power, he is losing control. President Nixon came to office determined to show his toughness in Vietnam, and before long Henry Kissinger was chasing around Europe, sneaking in 
'at garden doorways, trying to find 
some Vietnamese he could negotiate with. In the same way, Reagan's people must now pick Tip O'Neill up 
out of the dirt, dust him off, sweet­talk him. and ask him to bail them out of the mess they got into by succeed­ing. 
As luck would have it, the Reagan disaster is taking shape just as a book written to celebrate the Reagan tri­umph comes into the bookstores. Rowland Evans and Robert Novak wrote The Reagan Revolution to celebrate supply-side economics and a renewed Cold War. In the book, the old economics is said to have 
failed by the "rational barometer" of the stock market -this appears just as Reagan's moves have led to a market mini-crash. 
Evans and Novak deride the cau­tion of old economists who asked for hard estimates of the probable conse­quences of Reagan's plan. David Stockman at OMB is praised because he "quickly dislodged the OMB bureaucrats and brought in outside economists who forecast greater 
revenue." Stockman threw out the econometric models and relied on "a 
Gurry Wills 
Outrider 

scenario of the therapeutic effects from supply-side cuts." Old fogeys were dismissed because they could not see ''how merely the announce­ment of tax reduction can cause ex­pansionary business currents.'' 
Well, tax cuts are not only 
announced, ·now, but mandated ­and the expansion is not coming. The old fogeys said it would not, and they 
were right. The rosy scenario was al­ways an attempt to have everything at once -expansion without inflation, cuts without recession, a runaway defense budget without stimulation of prices, productivity in a tight­
money situation. 
Lovers of the non-existent "free 
market'' have always been deniers of 
original sin. They think greed is 
beneficent, and all will tum out well 
if all are turned free to scramble for 
themselves. As Murray Kempton 
just wrote of such market idolators: 
"Hayek and Von Mises owe the im­
mutability of their economic prin­
ciples to the luck that these principles 
exist in an uncluttered world where 
no one lives." 
That unreality always gives 
market people their excuse. When 
their programs fail (as in England), 
they say they did not really fai; be­
cause they were not fully tried. An 
intransigent situation made it impos­
sible to get back to a "pure" market 
-something that always happens. 
But a program always too pure for the 
messy particulars of the real is a 
program for disaster. Rather than 
recognize this, market people slog 
along like Margaret Thatcher, trying 
"more of the same" to correct the 
disaster caused by their medicine in 
the first place. 
The consequence would be 
satisfying to the moralist but for the 
fact that so many people suffer the 
consequences of the purists' ar­
rogance. David Stockman came to 
office with the aura of a wizard, just 
like Robert McNamara with his 
slide-rule whiz kids in 1960. The 
Stockman of the Evans and Novak 
book-brashly deriding the cautious 
forecasters, bringing in his own whiz 
kids -is already on his way to 
becoming the broken and defeated 
McNamara of 1967. The faster the 
rocket goes up, the sooner it begins to 
fall. 

Universal Press Svndicate 

University of Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. It does not nece~saril\ reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reponed as accurately and as objectively as possible. Editorials represent the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, opinions, and letters are the \"lews of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the communir\·, and the free expression of varying opinions on campus. through letters. i~ encouraged. 
Editorial Board and Department Managers 
SMC Executive Editor .....................Mary Agnes Carey Managing Editor .......................... , ........... Tom Jackman 
Editor-in-Cbief.........................................)ohn McGrath 
SMC News Editor ............................... Cathy Domamco Executive News Editor ..............................Lynne Daley 
Pboto Editor.....~..........................................john Macor News Editor.............................................Tim Vercellotti News Editor .......................................................Kelli Flint 
Business Manager ......... -.......................... Rich Coppola Senior Copy Editor ........................ Mary Fran Callahan 
Controller....................................................... .)oe Mulflur Sports Editor .........................................Michael Ortman 
Advertising Manager ..............................._. ...... Mark Ellis Features Editor ....................................Anthony Walton 
Production Manager.............................. Michael Monk Circulation Manager ........................Tom MacLennan 

----~­
The Observer Wednesday, September 9, 1981 -page 7 
Espionage charges 
Cooke wrins opening test 

Holy Cross Brothers name Baltrinic head 
The Provincial of the Brothers of Holy Cross recently announced the appointment of Brother David Baltrinic as director of Vocations for tht: Midwest Province of Brothers. 
Brother David will serve the Notre Dame community by conduct­in~ a weekly discussion ~roup on spirituallity and ministry, serving as spiritual director and providing vocational counseling for students considerin~ tht· vowed life of a Brother. 
In commenting on the life of Brothers in the Church today and on his role as Directur of Vocations, Brother said: 
"Brotht·rhood, as a way of life, is very much in tune with the con­t:erns ofour day and the movement of the Spirit in the Church and in tht· lives of young people. There are among students today, more than evt·r before. a real hunger for God, a longing to be part of a caring community, and a desire to be ofservice to others. This same hunger, longing, and dt•sire are at the root of the Brothers' vocation, for our 
calllng i.~ one ofliving the Gospel through a life ofprayer, community sharin~o:. and service to others. 
As Brothers we are probably the freest people in the Church today. We do not have the sacramental responsibilities ofpriesthood, nor do wt· have to tight for our place in the Church and society as women must, nor do we havt• the responsibilities of married life. No, we are free to assess tht· needs ofour day and to respond accordingly. 
"There is today a new sensitivity to the cries of the poor, the oppressed, the hungry and marginated peoples of our society and world. As Brothers we have the freedom to respond wholeheartedly to these cries. There is also today a great desire among Christians to commit themselves to Jesus through prayer, community sharing and service to others. The Brothers' vocation is a timely and vital calling, one that vibrates with the movement of the Spirit in today's world." 
Brother Baltrinic joined the Brothers of Holy Cross in 1958 and made perpetual profession of vows in 1963. From 1963 to 1978 he wa.~ at Gilmour Academy in Gates Mills, Ohio where he served as principal, teacher, resident counselor and campus minister in the area ofstudent retreats. He wa.~ a member ofthe Gilmour Board ofTrustees and the Director of the Brothers' community for nine years. 
During tht· past two years he has been involved with student groups at Notre Dam·e -CILA. FLOC, Right to Life. World Hunger Coalition, prayt·r groups -and served as a member of the Campus Renewal Team for tht· t·olleges in Indiana. He received his B.A. degree from the University of Notre Dame in 1963. a M.A. degree in Administration and Supervision from Loyola University in 1969 and a M.A degree in Theology from the University of Notre Dame in 1979. He also did graduate work in spirituality. group dynamics and American litt·rature. 
Brother David's residence and office are at Columbia Hall. He may be reached at .U I5 or 62tH. 
ANDREWS AIR FORCE BASE, Md. (AP)-A pale and tight-lipped 2nd Lt. Christopher M. Cooke won a key opening test in his espionage trial yesterday as an Air Force tribunal agreed to hear a defense claim that the military owes him immunity for having spelled out his dealings with the Soviets. 
Cooke, former deputy comman­der of a Titan II missle launch crew at McConnell AFB. Kan.. has been charged with II counts of failing to repon Soviet contacts and three of conveying defense information. lf convicted on all charges, he could be sentt·nced to up to 50 years at hard labor. 
But famed criminal attorney F. Let· Bailey told the tribunal Air Force au­thorities had conspired "to walk away from" a promise to drop the case against his client in exchangt· for his account to investigators ofhis contacts with Soviet officials. 
On that issue, Lt. Col. David Orser, the presiding military judge, awarded Cooke the right to call as a witness his first military attorney, Capt. Francis Predrotty, who was as­signed to represent him four days af­ter his arrest May 5. 
Normally, a person may not act as 
counsel and witness at a military tri­
al. But Orser agreed to make an ex· 
ception because of the importance 
of Pedrotty's testimony to Cooke's 
contention that the charges against 
him should he dismissed immediate­
ly. 

Cooke himself said little more 
than "Yes Sir," in the preliminary 
proceedings. which dwelt principal­
ly on whether he fully understood 
his rights. 

Pedrotty is one of three people who were involved in a key 
telephone conversation on May 9, during Cookt!'s interrogation. The defense contends the Air Force made an offer of immunity which should now protect Cooke from prosecution. 
The other parties were Lt. Col. Jerome Hoffmann, the Air Force in­vestigator conducting the investiga­tion, and Brig. CJen. Claude 
Teagarden, the staff judge advocate. or chief counsel. for tht· Stratgk Atr Command. 
The {.:onversation occurred after Cooke had made an initial statement acknowledging contacts with Soviet officials but denying any major wrongdoing. At the time. Cooke was 
resisting taking a lk detector test to verify his statement. 
Orser made no ruling on whether Cooke is entitll'd to immunity. He ordered tht· court room dosed to the public shortly after the court­
martial bt·gan .~o that he could con­sider another preliminary matter. a 
-. 

request by tht• government that por· tions of the court.martial he closed to prt·vent disdosurt· of classified data about the Titan II nucll'ar missik. 
Cooke. in his initial statement in May, suh~eqm·ntly matk puhlk', said that ht· madt· contact with the Sovkts in hopt·s that they would 
hdp him writt· an academk' paper on ll.S.-Sovkt relations that would propel him into an analyst's job with the Statt· lkpartmt·nt or the Central 
Intelligence Agency. 
f..JUNIORS._.!-·!···· 
~Anyone interested in applying to ~be chairman of Junior Parents ~Weekend or chairman of the 
~Senior Class Trip can pick up an;~~ ~o; <G2J~DSTO'Jf2. application at the 
· 
1... · Student Activities Office, LaFortune, ~ from Mon., Sept. 7 ~ 
~ ••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• ~~-. ~~~ ~ 7••~.P.~....J.~-......~ 
-································:
: 4111~11()~ : : (lui)§ etllcl Ul~etlllzettlf)fl§ : 
: A£tl~lt~ ft?t? fu11cllll~ :
•
•e Clubs and organizations wishing to apply for Activity •e : Fee Funding must pick up forms in Student Activities Office. : 
• •e
• Deadline for submitting completed applications is • Tuesday September 15, 5:00 PM •
•
•

•
••••e•••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• 
Texas Club meets tomorrow 
in LaFortune 
The Texas Club will conduct its first meeting tomorrow at 7:30p.m. on 2nd floor Lafortune. Orders for club T-shirts will be taken. The mct•ting will also provide informa­tion on a club get-together at Lee's Barbecue scheduled for Tuesday. Sept. 15. 

Registration forWI!CO) eo cca~~ and IFwrnwwm 
football tickets lottery 
will take place on Mon., Tues., Wed., Sept 7-9 
at the S.U. Record store/Ticket office First Floor La Fortune 10-4 PM 
190 tickets available for each. ID's a must. WINNERS TO BE ANNOUNCED FRIDAY IN OBSERVER A STUDENT UNION SPONSORED EVENT 

The Rowing Clubwill hold a general meeting tonight at 8 p.m. in LaFonune's Little Theatre. All members are reminded to bring their dues and proof of insurance to this meeting. Anyone in­terested in joining the club should attend. No previous rowing ex­perience is necessary. If you would like to join but are unable to attend, contact Bob Bennett at 3402. -The Observer 
Windsurfing at Notre Dame? That's right. A preliminary gathering of students interested in this new activity is scheduled for this evening at 6:30 p.m. in the Library Auditorium. All are welcome. -The Observer 
Registration concludes today for the student 
ticket lottery for the Michigan and Purdue football games. Students may register from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. this afternoon at the Student Union Record Store/Ticket Office. Students must present their own IDs when registering. The Observer will publish the list of 200 winners for each game tomorrow. -The Observer. 
The ND Ultimate Frisbee Club practices daftly 
at 3:30p.m. on Memorial Field. Newcomers are welcome. -The Ob­
server 

The deadline for entryin the interhall track meet is next Wednesday (Sept. 16). The meet, scheduled for Friday, Sept. 25, is for both Notre Dame men and women. Sign-up at the Office ofNon­Varsity Athletics (C-2 ofthe ACC) or call6100. -The Observer 
The: ND Judo Club will hold its first practice for all beginning and advanced judokas tonight at 8 p.m. on the second floor of the Rockne Memorial. All beginners are welcome. For more in­formation, contact john Engeman at 8437. -The Observer 
A jogging clinic is scheduled for next Tuesday, Sept. 15 at 7 p.m. in the ACC Auditorium. Notre Dame track and cross country coach and noted clinicianjoe Piane will speak on developing different types of running programs. Admission is free. -The Observer 
Referees are needed for :'llotre Dame's women's in­terhall flag football. Interested men or women should contact the NVA office at 6100 or stop by C-2 of the ACC. -The Observer 
A tnandatory track meeting is scheduled for 
3:30p.m. today in the ACC Auditorium. Anyone interested in running indoor or outdoor track this year, including returning athletes, should attend. --The Observer 
• • • Board 

continuedfrom page 9 
::::FOOTBALL 
AP Top Twenty 

The Top Twenty college football teams 1n The As­sociated ~ress poll, wrth first-place votes in paren­theses. thiS season's records and total pomts. Points based on 20-19-18-17 etc. Notre Dame oponents are 
Italicized. . 
1. Michigan (37) 2. Alabama ( 11 1 3. Oklahoma (3) 
4. Notre Dame (4) 
5. Southern Cal 13) 6. Georgia 141 7 Nebraska 
8. Texas 
9. Penn State 
itle) Pittsburgh 
11 . Oh10 State 
12. 
UCLA 

13. 
North Carolina 14 MISSISSIPPI State 


15. Brigham Young 16 Miami (Fla.) 
17. Washington 
18. Florida State 
19. Stanford 20 Anzona Slate 

0-0-0 ·1.184 1-0-0 1.110 0-0-0 1.049 ().(H) 1,024 0-0-0 1.009 1-0-0 929 0-0-0 779 0-0·0 747 0-0-0 742 0-0-0 742 0-0-0 538 0-0·0 466 0-0-0 440 1-0-0 438 1-0-0 373 1-0-0 356 0-0-0 222 1-0-0 186 o-o-o 180 0-0-0 173 
--­ Classifieds  The Observer will accept ctassifieds Monday through Friday, 10 a.m. to 4:30p.m. However, clas­sifieds to be run in the next issue must be received by 3 p.m. the business day prior to insertion. All clas­sifieds must be prepaid, either in person or through the mail.  
WANTED 2 GA tixs to Navy game. Mega  WANTED...FOUR GA'S FOR THE LSU  HELP  NEED  ONE  FSU  STUDENT  Wednesday is "OVER THE HUMP DAY"  
money. Call Ela1ne 7858.  GAME.  TIX  ARE  FOR  CORPORATE  TICKET· CALL KIT 4770 SMC  at  IRISH  COUNTRY!  Get  over  that  
BRASS WHO  ARE WILLING TO PAY  mm1ddle of the week hump w1th the best  
Need 2 or 4 GA tix for LSU, MSU, or FSU.  TOP DOLLAR. PLEASE CALL234-0418.  NEED  1  STUDENT  LSU  TICKET  beer-dnnk1ng bargain in town! All THE  
..............................'  Big bucks. Call Stan, 3008.  PLEASE!!! call John at 1591  DRAFT YOU CAN DRINK FOR $3, 9­ 
RIDE NEEDED TO HOUSTON TEX FOR  I NEED TWO GA TIX FOR USC!!! I WILL  ····················  ...............................  12PM!  
OCTOBER BREAK. WILL SHARE USUAL. CALL CHRIS AT 1678. REWARD: NO class ring stolen from Campus View apartment Friday night. Reward offered for Information leading to recovery of ring or assault of thief. Initials MDlmside. Call272·8454. IT'S All HAPPENING AT THE ZOO!  PAY MEGABUCKS!!! PLEASE CALL BETH AT 283-4236. NEED 2 FSU GA. AND 2 MSU STU­DENT TIX. TOM 1020. Communist A. V. needs RED EAST PARKING PERMIT lor L.S.U and espe­cially MICH ST. Please call3667 or (717) 462-2745 collect lor Tim.  Desperately need 3 GA's for PENN STATE. Willing to pay megabucks! Call Patty 1321. Need LSU GA's PAY MUCH$$ Call 283-8598 NEED 4 MICH. ST. TICKETS. CALL JOHN 1001.  NEED FOOTBALL TIX? I DO! I NEED USC AND PENN STATE TIX AND AM WILLING TO BUY, SELL OR TRADE ANY OTHER TIX TO GET THEM. WILL DEAL IN CASH ALSO. CALL LARRY 277-3306. NEED: 2 or more GA LSU tickets! Call laura5272.  Need 2 GA's any game Keith 3507 ATTENTION: desperately need o t n~·. ~~d only one LSU ticket. Please! Call 7942 anytime. oivoficE.AATEs.soAFi•. ay·;;;~ki~g:·2 GA tix avail. to me you will help curb divorce rates. Sis & bro-in-law must see NAVY game. DOON 4840  MEG I decided that the wedding is off­Michigan here we come!!! chocolate chip cookies and cash for 2 G.A. tix for l.S.U. call272-1922 before 2 .or aher 6. IT'S All HAPPENING AT THE ZOO!  
CRYSTAL ROCKS CRYSTAL ROCKS CRYSTAL ROCKS Saturday night at IRISH COUNTRY, with special guest Joe Eby, rock'n roll and party.  BALTIMORE: I need one rider to Bal­timore, leave 9/17, return 9/20. It in­terested call Jim 8729. EVERY MICHIGAN TICKET YOU HAVE -We intend to see this game if we have to knife the gatekeeper. Keep many delin­ Help: Need 2LSU tickets. Call Jo 41-5236 WANTED:Two GA tickets for LSU. Will pay good $$. Call Jeff--8862. DESPERATELY NEED USC TIX FOR  NEED TWO GAs TO ANY NO FOOT­BALL GAME FOR DAD. SECOND SEMESTER'S TUITION COULD BE IN PERIL! CALL MIKE AT 1071. .............................................................. SEX AND DRUGS are out of the ques­tion. but I will pay or trade ANYTHING  NEED FLORIDA STATE TICKET. Just one. Cous1n coming from Florida, and she's a beautiful blonde. Call Tom at 8620. WILL TRADE 2 GEORGIA TECH G.A.'s FOR TWO FLORIDA STATE G. A.'S OR  Attention NO men' Only 384 more days until Julie Wodarcyk's 21st birthday! Don't get left out in the rush. Make an ap­POinment for a birthday kiSS NOW by call­ing Julie at 2108, or stop in at Julie's Pleasure Palace, at 209 Lew1s Hall. A belated happy birthday Julie!  
THE ORGANIZATIONAL MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL JUVENILE CORREC­TIONS PROJECT IS TONIGHT, WED­NESDAY, SEP 9, AT 7 P.M. IN THE LITTLE THEATRE OF LAFORTUNE. All ARE WELCOME I  quents out of jail, sell your Michigan tix now. Call272-8454. I am not choosy-will pay big bucks for 3-4 G.A. tickets to any home game. Please call Glenn at 3387!!!  IRATE ALUMNUS!!! CALL CHRIS at 1678 WILL PAY GOOD BUCKS. WANTED: 2 OR MORE GA LSU TIX. WlllPAY!CAll ROB 1628.  else for ONE USC GA ticket. Call Anne Marie, 129t. Help! Need up to 4 GA MICHIGAN ST. tix so excited relatives can see NO in action. Call Pat8601  ONE OR TWO U.S.C. G.A.'S. CALL DAVID M AT 8241 Will trade 2 LSU tickets for 2 USC tickets. Call4726laura.  Gel ready NO! Today, Maureen "Party An1mal" Kinney turns 20. Call Mo, that Bethel Park Beauty, at 2198, and wish her the best. Better yet, visit Ia senorrta bonrta at 207 Lewis Hall. Feliz cumpleanos Mo!  
THE ORGANIZATIONAL MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL JUVENILE CORREC­TIONS PROJECT IS TONIGHT AT 7 PM IN THE LITTLE THEATRE OF LAFORTUNE. COME ONE COME ALLIII' JD'S ARE PEOPLE TOOII! All THOSE WHO CARE BE AT THE LITTLE THEATRE TONIGHT AT 7:00PM FOR AN ENLIGHTENING EXPERIENCE. BE THERE AND SIGN UP TO TUTOR! LOST: GOLD RALEIGH 5-SPEED BICYCLE. ANY INFO.. PLEASE CON­TACT JENNIFER MAGUIRE 6239. Found: Several items found at Freshman  Bouncers wanted, good pay and fringe benefits. mostly saturday nights. Call 272-9913. 1 babysitter for LSU game, call277-6255. All YOU MCAT CANDIDATES!!! STAN­LEY KAPLAN BOOKS FOR SALE­$1 00. CALL BETH AT 4236. NEED TO REVIEW FOR THE MCAT? STANLEY KAPLAN REVIEW BOOKS FOR SALE. ONLY $100 t;:OR THE WHOLE SET. CALL BETH AT 4236. MCAT REVIEW BOOKS FOR SALE. AAMC, BARRON'S AND ONE OTHER BOOK FOR SALE. BEST OFFER. CALL  Need 6 G.A. and 1 Stud. TIX for LSU. Call CHIP3123. Desperatly need 5 FLA State tix GA or Student. Jenny 41-4507. Will trad,e 2 navy GAs for 1 Fla. St. GA. call Colleen 3477. 1 LSU ticket wanted. Money is no object call Donna at 6771. LSU ticket wanted. Will pay mega· bucks. Call Donna at 6771. Penn St. ticket wanted, please call Donna at6771. Need 4 GA tix lor Penn State. Call Dom, 3075 Need 3 or 4 GA tickets tor FSU game. Call collect 219-362-4292 evenings. .......  I NEED LSU GA JOE 8810 Need 4 GA tix to any home football game. Call Rene 4408 SMC. Wanted: 2 GA tickets for LSU. Call 5135 SMC MICHIGAN lix for sale. Pair. row 59, 35 yard line. (313) 532-1313 or (313) 356­3696. FOOTBALL · 2 season tix for sate. Best offer. (215) 472-8174. Desperately need 12 Michigan tlx. Check my prices. Call Mike 0. at 8661. leave message wrth Shirley if necessary. Will trade any home game ticket for one USC ticket OR will pay cash Valerie 6426  TAPS, KEGS, ICE, TUBS, QUARTS. CANS, CUPS, BLONDES, BRUNETTES, RED­HEADS: CALL TOBY AT 272­1853...FREE DELIVERY!! Hey Jo F. Reiner: How could a such a wild woman bite the dust so soon? The big affair must be during spring break. on the beach, com­plete w~h kegs and drugs. lots of drugs. And the abuse goes on...and on...and on. -ATTENTION LADIEs-­Mike "HOOKSETT'' liNen WOUld Nile to publicly MIAOUMe IIIII new telephone number­1810 So pick up the phone and give 111m a thrill; dial 1810,  ACC Catering Service is looking for a few good men to work luncheons in the Monogra .m Room on home football weekends. 10-1 Saturdays and 11-3 Fridays. $3.50/hr. For info call 234-0114 (Mary) or 3323 (Jeff). Especially need people this Friday! Business majors and Freshman. You are welcome to attend the first meeting of NO Management Club. Weds.. Sept. 9 (Tonight!) 8:30 p.m., Bulla Shed. BE THERE! B line dinner JUSt ISn't the same this year. Mary Wallavich-Happiest of Birthdays to you. YAHOO! Your present: WINDMILLS! COMPETITIVE COLOR GUARD Experienced or willing to learn? looking for 6 male rifles and 12 female silks. Call Joyce 6747 or Pat 1146  
Field Day. See lost and Found in the Ad­ministration Building. LOST: N.D. Class Ring at Senior Bar Thursday. Gold, t>tue qpiral stone with N.D. engraved in stone. "l'"'"'as E. Con· roy '82" engraved inside. If found call 1om at277-4924. A 7-iron was lost on the go~ course Satur­day. If found, please call John 1689. lost: One runner's watch at Beach or Rockne area -If found, Please call CHRIS at 8608. (Model: CAStO F­200,BLACK WILED Display) FOUND: green jacket in rm. 356 F~z. Hall (EG BLDG) on 9/6/81. Call8421 to iden­tify. ...............................,..... '  BETH AT 4236. For Sale -couches, $30 up: chairs, $5 up. Free Delivery to dorm. Call Mrs. Cooper at 272-3004 aher 12 noon. • for sale: springsteen tixs. thurs sept: 10 chicagc, good seats 287-9342 74' Chevy IiNback, runs well, driven from Wisconsin $200. Call233-2032. MUSICAL EQUIPMENT-SHURE PROMASTER PA SPKRS:PEAVEY 4ch MIXER: ELECTRONIC SOUND MODIFIER FOR HORNS( allows clarinets & saxes to produce other instrumental sounds) & assorted effects pedals. All GOOD CONDITION, SELL All OR SEPARATELY. NEGOTIABLE, CALL 233-2268 OR 232· 7492.  NEED 3 TICKETS TO LSU, GA OR STU· DENT, CALL SUE AT 4-1-5773 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . FOR SALE: One complete studEint loot­ball licket..'.. besl seats possibl,e. Best offer at 4604. NEieri;i NAvvciA~·c;~,i j~~ealt2 .. DESPERATELY NEED LSU GA TIX $$$$$CALL JOHN 1764 FOR SALE: 4 LSU GA'S (2 PAIR) BEST OFFER. CALL: CAtS 8360 OR TOI\18367 NEED ONE LSU_TIX! DIANE 277-1!803 HELP, I ONLY NEED ONE LSU STU TICKET. WILL PAY$$$. THANKS CALL JIM, 8165.  For sale, Stickels to the Spnngsteen con­cert in Chicago on Friday. Sept. 11. Call 6700. Want to trade 2LSU tickets for 2 USC tick­ets. Call Marianne 2733 Need 2-4 GA for Flonda Slate. Prem1um dollar. Call2269. need LSU student tickets. Will pay big bucks. Call Mike C 1744 FFOR SALE: 2 LSU GAs WANTED: 1 MSU student tix Call Vince x 1238 Need 5 MSU GA tixs. Together or separate. Will pay big$$. Jack 277·5098 aher 11 p.m. WILL TRADE 2l.S.U. G.A.'s for 2 MICHI­GAN G. A.'s call Darryl x8297  Scoop, what d~ y~~ kl~~ ~~~-~ S~,;,~ ~~~f: fers want to hear from you! So it is sa1d. Scoop, no one koob any more·. S.igh·.... SUZANNE..Pi~~~~ ~~~i·;;;~·back! MARK ciiFiCs· atFii.s.ciiFiLs.NEEio·A· oArEi? Great looking transfer student 6'2" 190 lbs. dying to meet attractive ladies. CALL 234·6847 ASK FOR MIKE To­Abeska Baty Goehler Imhoff Julian Kruzel Nickels  BARRY MANILOW CONCERT LOT­TERY 7PM. THURS SEPT 10 LAFORTUNE BALLROOM -ATTENTION LADIE$­keep "HOOKSETT'' happyllll dla18960 •net.....y hello to "HOOKSETT'' The guys from Stanford Hall would like to thank all the hosprtable women of Pasquenlla East for mak~ng Stanford's first PORTA-PARTY of the semester a huge success! We wanted to celebrate our first regular event of the year with the newest addition to NO. and we're glad we did. A special thanks goes to PE's rectress for taking a chance on us. Furthermore. we want to apologize to Saint Mary's for not be1ng able to port the PORTA-PARTY over there. The great so­cial m1nds of Stanford are hard at work thinking up alternative ac11v1ties to make 1t  
,..~-----·--·-·--, 1 FOR RENT ! ··················· Student housing, University rated suj;;;. rior, complete facilities, clean & safe, call 291-1405 after Sept. 1.  lTICKETS ; Need LSU Student & GA's. Call Jack 1173.  NEED 2-4 GA TIX FOR All HOME FOOTBALL GAMES. CALL ART AT 1593 ............................................... DESPERATELY NEED TWO GA TICK­ETS FOR LSU WILL PAY YOUR PRICE CALL PAT 8635.  Dad Coming form Tacoma-Needs Two Tickets fo USC!!! Call Bill at x1678. Need 2 LSU G.A.'s. Will pay any price. Call Steve 3661 or 3662. WHAT A DEAL. .... WILL TRADE 2 MSl),  Mattaim Vieth Waliser-Welcome back to N.D.' Bet you can't wait till the Super Bowl! BAND MeMBER Neeos 4 Lsu..TiC'K~ ETS! CALL3468 FOR FURTHER INFO.  up to you. One last thanks for the great response to the newsletter. We're glad you under­stand what we're trying to do. Expect more LIPService.in the future. THE STUDS OF STANFORD P.S. Beware of PORTA-PARTY in two weeks! Where? Who knows!!  
Effic1ency apartments-1 00.00/mo. Near Notre Dame, on bus line, call255-8505 or 259-4829. RENT TO OWN A COLOR TV OR STEREO. CALL SUN APPLIANCE 291­5112. Need one male housemate. For informa­tion call232-6344 early or late. ......................................................... UGLY DUCKLING RENT-A-CAR. From $8.95 a day and 8 cents a mile. Phone 259-8459 for reservations. Need 1 roo;,;;;;~;~·;~;·~-i;;;~;;;;:·~~;;·~;~; campus, utmties paid, furnished k~chen.  Need 2 GA LSU tickets. Call Shirley at 1715 before 5 weekdays. I NEED TWO GA TIX FOR USC AND WILL PAY ANYTHING!!! CALL BETH AT 4236!! Need 2 student tix for LSU. Call John 3527 Need two or three Purdue, LSU, and Michigan tickets, Call287-6942. BARRY MANILOW CONCERT LOT­TERY 7PM THURS. SEPT.10 LAFORTUNE BALLROOM  Neeo PENN···srAT'E''TiC'KE·rs:··cALL 7905 N;;;;d-·F,~;·id~··s;:·ii~i.-~i~~··c;~ii's!~-~~:272: 2925. .......................................................... Need 2 student LSU's. Chris 3384. For sale, 1 c~·,;;pj~~~-~~k of stude~t·i~~j: ball tix. t>est offer 8363. Fi~i~ii·~~· N~~ i:~~~;·F~~;t, N~~d~-~i~i.~is to LSU and FSU. Call Dan Smith 234­8121. N·Eie'ii'4'Lsu.ciA:rix:·c;A:i:i:'joHN.iooi..  FSU, NAVY, OR GT TIX FOR 2 LSU TIX... CALL JANE AT 6889 IN THE EVENINGS. Need 2 or 4 GA or Student tix for any home game. Call Mary Jane 41-4411 .. Need 2 or 4 GA or Student tix to any game. MUY IMP,ORTANTE!!! Call leslie or Cathy 277-2244. U of M-NO footballlix. 2,great seats! 45 yardline, row 22. Best offer over $100 for pr. 313-971-2583 eves. need 4 GAs to Michigan State call John at 1216  0~~:; ·~· t,~:~:~r;;;,t, J~i~ th~ ~h~~~-~~~·;;_ Call Pat at 3384. You've got mutton to lose. South Bend sucks OFF-CAMPUS NITE at BRIDGET'S tonight. Special this week is LITTLE KINGS,3FOR$1.00, 7-10P.M. FAEE.MtctiEii.os.oN· rAP',·c~t~;;;~;~ the grand opening of IRISH COUNTRY'S new Blue/Gold Room Thursday Night as we tap a complimentary keg of Michelob at 9 PMI That's right, FREE MICHELOB THURSDAY AT 9!  ............ ~.................... keep "HOOKSETT" happy-8960 TOOL, OK. so you did a tiny brt of work for the Oasis for the last three years. B1g deal. You still "shoot from the hip." Well, at least you never brought any kegs into the Oasis. For being such a good little tool, have a happy 21st birthday WEEKEND. --All the King·s Tools euf:f:Ai:o··c;cua· i.1'E:ErtNG.·ToNtGHT AT 7:00 pm IN FARLEY HALL BASE­MENT. And the restless shade wanders yet.  
Rent very cheap! Calllqbal288-0076.  

The Observer -Sports Wednesday, September 9, 1981 -page 9 
BASEBALL 
S.C:ond HeH NATIONAL LEAGUE 

E..t  
w  L  Pet.  GB  
St LOUIS  15  10  600  
Montreal  14  13  519  2  
New York  14  15  483  3  
Ch1CB9<J  13  15  .464  3.5  
•·Philadelphia  11  17  393  55  
Prttsburgh  12  19  387  6  
We81  
Houston  19  10  655  
x·Los Angeles  18  II  621  1  
San Fra.nctaco  16  12  571  25  
Allanta  15  13  536  35  
Ctnctnnatt  14  14  500  45  
San D1ego  9  2'  300  10.5  
x·llrst hall champ1on  

Yettterdey'a Reeulta Ph1ladelph1~ I 0. Montreal 5 New York 3. Pittsburgh t Atlonta 3. Houston 2 San D1ego 6. Cincinnati 1 
Chicago 4, St Lou1s 3 (12) Los Angeles 4. San Franc1sco 0 
Today'e Gam•• San D•ego (Lollar 1·7) at C•nc~nnat1 (l•eb<andf 0·0) Montreal (Gullickson 4·7) at Philadelphia (Ruthven 10·5). n 
New VOfk (Hams 3·4) at P11tsburgh (Perez 2·5). n Houston (Ryan 8·3) at Atlanta (Perry 6·6). n Chocago (Krukow 5·8) at St Lou1s (Martin 5·2), n San Franc1oco (Gnff1n 7·6) at Los Angel~s (Goltz2·3). 
n 
AMERICAN LEAGUE E881 

w L Pet. GB Detroit 19 10 65~ Balltmore 17 11 607 1.5 Mrlwauk~e 17 ~~ 586 2 x·NRw vorlt 16 12 .571 2~ Boston 15 13 ~36 35 Cif>velano IS 15 500 45 l.,rc>nf, 13 14 48' ~ 

M•n·a Single• Novice Barry Fay (10281 v. Mark Baumel (14651 Bob Gaffney 18685) v J1m Mellon (8286) Joe Kostolanskl (1427) v. Steve Re1dy (4643) Ted Dare (6756) v Bryan A. Lawrence (8853) Dan Lesmez (8127 or 31 03) v. Pat Toole (8609) B1il Clifford (8164) v. Kevin Dranss1eld (17511 Kns KostiC (65051 v Vernon Marchal (7291) ChnsJohnson (31021 v Tom Wo1dat (3800) 
Women'a Slnglea Lisa Joyce (79581 v Deb1 Tomdawitz (70921 Laune Zellmer (3816) v. E11een Rakochy (6751) Molly Walsh (8034) v. Chns Callahan (2191) Adnenne Wallace (7895) v. Julie M1ddleton (6746) Lisa Pav1n 12738) v Mary Re111y (27231 Linda Shanahan (2845) v Jenmter Dav1d (27331 Kathy Guglielmi (3739) v Kathy Cyran (8095) Ann N1cgarsk1 (38651 v L1nda Cl•veland (4661) Manann Crapanzano (4208) v Deanrta Daltolio 
(4420) Kathy M~randoa (43541 v Kat~ F1scher 14570) Carole Wonq (4351) v Susan Pratt 179281 
Meg Sullrva~ (no nurnber) v Nan I cv Holtdecher 17220: Mixed Double• Tony P1erce (1424) and Chns Cervenek (1363) v M1ke Shanley (3365) and Sue Malon~ Ino number\ 
Peter lrvrng (Brownson Hal!) and Mar{lar~t Seteme 12914) v Alan Straub 16931) and Joan Sw1ec1ak (4633) 
Lou1se Demello ( 12611 and R•chard Clark ( 1 0621 v T1m Lavender ( 1 079) and Peggy Owens (no number) 
DenniS Carney (1062) and Lmda Cleveland (no number) v Tnc1a Nubeny 18441) and Fran James (13911 
Women'• Gred-Feculty Belly Vatl (7389) vs. Susan Roberts 1282·1029) Dorothy Pashley (287·6738 or 287·6584) v Beth 
Uhng (277·5705) Sally Derengosk• (277· 7325) v Knss Kwaak (3793) Men'a Grad-Faculty Royce K1nca1a (277·6952) v Peter lrv1ng (Brownson Hall I Gary Malecha (232·3181) v George Hayford 1233· 
7654) Drew Brahos (19121 v Ken Kalina (277·7451) Steve Schneck (287·1715) v J1m Jemsta (277· 
3306) 
Addressing almost the entit·e population oflf'alsh /Iall lastnif.{IJI.
M1ke Caylor 1277·3306) v Ken Roos !277· 7158) Jack Jones 188271 v Bern1e Srhmaltz 138091 Notre /Jaml' frm/ha/1 Coach G(•n-r Faust npe11etl /bat dorm's Jimtl Rob Ch~raphova' (277-4413) v 'I'< Sumooor, 
sales u·ith u ceremonious "rihlmn Ulllin,f< " ( Phntn ''l'}ohn .\facorl 
(233·2530i 
r.,.______.::.._ ...-·----~---·--·----~~--­
See BOARD, pagt· 8 
Weet x-Oakland 14 13 519 Kansas C1ty 15 14 .517 Ch1cago 12 16 .429 2.5 Cahlornoa 11 16 407 3 Texas 11 16 407 3 Mtnnesota 12 18 400 3.5 
SeaMie 11 18 379 x·llrst hall champion 
Vell1erday'e Reeulta Balt1more 14. Cleveland 5 Boston 5. Detroit 3 Ch1cago 5. Seattle 3 M•nnesota 1. Toronto 0 Kansas C1ty 5. Cali lorn• a 3 Oakland 3. Texas 0 Mtlwaukee at New York. ppd., ram 
Todey'eGem• • Cleveland !Biyleven t 0·6) at Ba1t1more (Stone 4·4). n M•lwauke~ (Caldwell10·7) at New York (May 6·8). n Boston (Tanana 3·8) at Detroit (Petry 8·6). n Seallle (Stoddard 1·0) at Ch1cago (lamp 5·3). n Toronto (Glancy 5·8) at M1nnesota (Arroyo 5·7), n Californoa (Frost t ·5 or Renko 5·3) at Kansas C1ty (Gura 9·6), n Texas (Med1ch 8·4) at Oakland (langford 8·6). n 
INTERHALL 

Falltenms tournaments will be smgle ehmmaflon Pa1nngs Will appear each WednesdaV 1n rhe 01>· server. It rs the responsrbrhty of each partrcrpant to contact hrs or her opponent and set up a match tn each round Results of matches must be turned rn to the onterhall off1ce (C·2 ACC) before noon on the tollowrng Tuesday Farture to report results wrll mean d•squallflcatlo" of both part1c1pants Results w11t only be accepted 1f 1nsurance forms are completed and on file 
NOTE. Many players rece1ved "byes· s1nce all byes are g1ven 1n the ftrst round All pia yers gtven byes and first round w1nners Will pia y next week 
Men'• Open Slnglel M1ke PP.re1 (36431 v Dam••n Marshall115091 Chns Banlle (27?·66?91 v Tom Bauer 114701 F Fosher Reynolds Ill ( 1 fi011 v Tom Cuns '· 11931 Tom Walcon 146271 v M1ke Burnett (3314, 
1 

I terns I Styling for m~n and fH~RMA FUS~ 
crmtinuetlfrom {laf.{e I.! 
Othl·r NCAA figures over the last five years indicate that the Irish were seventh in rushing defense with 
127.9 yards allowed per game, I I thin total defense and l.~th in total offense 
FAI.l. RERUNS -lri!>h juniors Dave Duerson and Tony Hunter rank among top returning players in their statistical specialties. Duerson. an all-America can· didate at strong safety, ranks third among returning players with a 10.9-yard l·areer punt return average. 
lfuntcr, who has been switched to wingback after his 
two-year stint at split t·nd, ranks second among active 
rccdvcrs with his 19.9-yard carcer average per reccp· 
tion. 
KRAUSE KUDOS-Edwar~ "Moose" Krause, athletic 
director emeritus, will be honorcd by the National 
football Foundation and Hall of Fame on Saturday. 
Krause: will receive the Foundation's Most Outstanding 
Contribution to Amateur Football Award for 1981 prior 
to the ND-L'iU clash. James McDowcll, tht· executive 
director ofthe Foundation, will present the award. 
A REUNION OF CHAMPIONS -Members of thc 
1941., '43. '46 and '47 Irish football squads will hold a 
reunion at the LSlJ game this wcekcnd, thanks to Irish· 
man Ziggic Czarobski. Czarobski, a Hall of Farner, 
helped or~anize the return of some SO former grid 
Kfcats, who will be honorcd at halftime. The '43, '46 and 
· 4 7 team~o won national championships undcr Coach 
Frank Leahy 
PRIME INTEREST RATE -As a siJ:n that intt·rest is swelling !{lr Notre Dame f{>otball thi' year. tkket manaJ.(t'f Stcve Orsin• reports that requests li.1r 1ickc:b 
arc up 35-percent this year compared to a year ago. 
I!'JfORMATION HONORS -Congratulation' to 
Sports lnti1rmation Director Roger Vaidiscrn and assis· 
tants John Heisler and Karen Croakl' ti1r winning I 0 
awards from their pecrs at the College Sports lnforma· 
tion Directors of America ( CoSIDA) convcntion this 
summer. 

Thcy earned a second place award in the nation for 
their soccer brochure, third place for the football 
program and gencral information brochure, fourth 
place for the Irish Eye newslettcr, thc football brochure: 
and Sugar Bowl media guide and fifth place for thc bas· 
ketball program. In their district, thc Sports Int<>rmation 
staff earned second place honors for its football 
brochure, football program and basketball program. 
RE·Al.PHABETIZE -ABC Sports has shaken up its 
lineup for college football telecasts this season. Former 
Irish coach and color commentator Ara Parscghian will 
divide hi!> time betwecn B-game telecasts with play-by­
play announccr AI Michaels and regional games. 
Arkansas athletic director Frank Broyles has also bccn 
rea~signed. Broyles will do fewer telecasts with play-by· 
play expert Keith Jackson. doing the balance of his 
broadcasting chores with Michaels. 
Evidently the alphabet network is preparing to movc 
another announcer into the A-team color position for 
national tclcc:~sts. 
~~~ ~ 
: OBSERVER Classifieds : 
A 
SPICER PIZZA 
11Featurint< Eastern Style Subs" Complete Deli Sandwicb Line 
""t. 
c:',. 
M· 31 
~ 
sPace:~)'

Expires 
<P 
04:-'\ 

Oct. 15, 1981 k ~ .., 
'-'"'"'i~<: (~:~;."/.. to Jo•.'S) 
$1.00 off an.v larf<e pizza with this coupon Open 7da_ys -Open for lunch 
Mon. thru Thurs. 10:30 a.m. to 10:30 p.m. Fri. & Sat. till 1:00 Sun. 4:30 to 10:30 just 3 minutes from Campus 
! women who like to 
look their best 
Vo!f>.. I ~ )f... ~\ A~: I 
I' "'~ ,\( fo~· IC,~, I ~H)~ 
,.,.H,'LJAli ~ lf\IN 
277-0734 

Attention All Off-Campus Students 
MC·ND Off-Campus Commissio in conjunction with SMC·SABP** Duke Tumatoe -¥_.** and the All-Star Frogs•_.
* 
Thurs. Sept. iO, 8:00 in O'Laughlin Aud.... 'at SMC Tickets $2.00 (which includes free 
admission to pre-party) Pre-party plans to be announced! 
Juniors 

Informational Meeting 
new Arts and letters Spring Semester 
LONDON PROGRAM 
)
,. 
I 
' 

Thursday, Sept. 10, 1981 Library Auditorium 
. \ 
-<. 
-
* 

' The Observer "W'ednesday, September 9, 1981 -page 10 
... Secondary 

-..­
New York Yankees manager Bob Lemon (left) and Kansas City Royals managerDick Howser (right) werejoinedyesterday by new­ly appointed Montreal Expos manager]im Fanning us major league skippers hired in the last week. Dick Williams wasfired yesterday by Montreal. (AP) 
neebeb 
a (jUIURISt to lEab sonG Sacn€b hEant panash on th€ Campus 
8:1 5 mass €V€ny Sunbay 
Ith€n€ IS a Sttp€nb Call 283-7511 
~ ~ 
( 
continuedfrom page 12 
doesn't, I have to call an audible that suits the formations. I have a lot of responsibility and flexibility." 
Sophomore Stacey Toran returns to man the weakside cornerback position this year after starting nine games there last season. Toran hails from nearby Indianapolis, and at 6-4 and 195-pounds, boasts excellent size and speed. 
"Inexperience hurt Stacev a little last year," notesJohnson. "b~t he has returned with a lot of <.~ontidence in himself this year, and we have everv bit ofconfidence that he can do th~ job." 
Rod Bone will assume the free safety spot this season and, although he can claim starting experience, this will he his first full season as a starter. A 6-2, 200-pound juniorwho 
mav be the fastest member of the defensive backfield. ~ays .Johnson. ··Rod is the person who really has to come through for us. The only thing he lacks, really, is experience in a starting role. He's got everything else." On obvious passing downs, Notre Dame fans should look for either sophomore Chris Brown or senior Steve Cichy to put in an appearance. Brown is a 6-1, 19S-pound native ofOwensboro, Ky., who played sub­stantially as a freshman last year. "Chris is definately not a newcomer to our secondary," points out Duer­son. Johnson adds that, "Chris is al­most like one of our starters. It's going to be hard to keep him qut of the starting lineup." Steve Cichy's name should be 
calls Las Cruces, N.M.. home, Bone familiar to most Irish followers. A 6­
...................................MARi<Eri·N·G...c[u·s............................, 
First ()rganizational Meeting 
Wednesday Night 6:30 
1:22 Hayes-Healy Center Freshmen, Sophomores, 
and SMC's invited. ,...........................................,..................................................................................... 
1 

CUT CLASS WITH EVELYN WOOD. 
Evelyn W()(Xj Reading Dynamics invites you to a free Lesson. It's the first lesson in our remarkable 7 week course...and you're invited FREE of 
charge. You'll not only learn about reading faster and better, but you'·ll also learn 
HOW TO TAKE BETTER NOTES 
HOW TO IMPROVE YOUR STUDY TECHNIQUES 
HOW TO TAKE TESTS 
HOW TO COMPREHEND AND REMEMBER MORE OF WHAT YOU READ 
HOW TO REDUCE STUDY TIME I 
2, 21 0-pound res•d<>nt of Far~o. 
.\I.D., Cichv ~tarteo at ~tron~ salety 
his sophomore ~cason but sustained 
a neck injury against Purdue last 
year that thrt>atened his football 
career and ended the sea<;On for him. 
"Steve has been a starter for us and is coming hack," comments Johnson. '"Right now we are trying to get him a little more confidence because of the nt>ck injury." 
Top backups in the secondary this season look to bc ~enior .\1ike Masini and sophomore Daane Spidmakcr. "Both have dont· a good job and will see some playing time." mentioned Johnson. 
Freshmen Joe Johnson and Kevin 
Sherman also will provide depth in 
the backfield, a~ both have proved to 
Johnson that tht>y can play at Notre 
Dame. 

Overall, things are looking up in 
the Notre Dame secondary and ifJim 
Johnson's crew looks ao; good on the 
field Saturday as it does on paper, it 
might just start proving all those 
preseason experts correct. 
. Soccer 

continuedfrom page 12 
reported to practice out of shape. "To be quite honest, I was a bit dis­appointed in the condition of some of our players as we began practic· ing,"' says Hunter. "However, we've had a strong three weeks ofpractice and everyone has worked hard. I feel we're ready for the opener." 
buy OBSERVER 
Kodacolor 
PRINT FILM DEVELOPED & PRINTE ON KODAK PAPER 
20 & 24 EXPOSURE SIZE 110-126-135MM $2.95 POSTPAID 
36 EXPOSURE 135MM-$4.95 POSTPAID 
,. 


Offer Ends Sept. 30, 1981 Mail Film, Ad With Check Or Money Order 
To: 

Galloway Photo 
1 1
This is actually the first lesson of the Evelyn W()(Xj Reading Dynamics course.. AND IT'S FREE' You·re under absolutely no obligation when 
you attend. P.O. Box 1457 1 Terre Haute, IN 47808 
1 1 

The Observer 
T0 dax==============W=e=dn=e:;:s=d=a=y=,S=e=p=t=e=m=b=e=r=9='=1=9=8=l==p=a=g=e=l::1 
Molarity 
/1Y FIR5T PAY DF C:.H££1?L£4P11JC, PRKTICE: AND :r'l-t ALReADY IN UN£. 
~H£'5 BE:.4UTIPUL ANP RUP£ IO HE.,, BUT I /...tN~ HC.F\ 

Doonesbury 
MitES, I UNfJtll.-Ti'AT'S TTlJJE. I STANO YOU RAN ()(Jr (F A ;(JJITC A !?ACE IN FIELO OF 
LAST IM38<'5 NEIAJ IUXJO. r CAME IN 
~:~Jmm 
i2 
ffi' 


Simon 
I( FOur5 LET":; 1-/Ct..D tT 
l:YJWA/ • rtt TOR{,I. HAs JUST 
RNWIW AN ACTUAL (0NV£f(­~TIOW WITH tMIL, f+ND HE'S C!JMt Nr:r oor. _ ~ 
~\/\~ 
The Daily Crossword 
•~~~~~~::~~~~~~~~::~~~~~~~ 
1981 by Chicago fnbune-N Y News Synd Inc. 9/9181 All R1ghts Reserved 
TH6 I~N'T JL'!>T "DO 'IOU /.JAN[ ID 6PAt,.JN, Hl!JJ/3.Y P '' 1-JD,n/15 15 TJ.I£ F?t:AL TI-I!Nc!t BUI, Wil-L SHE" 1-IK£" H£ f 
. 
I ~ 
TENTH? Tt/ERE'SONLY (JJ()W! TCU ONE WilY 7D 1/5 THE 00 IT! I RAN I :iTORY~ IN SEVeRE PAIN I I HOW ~ FOR Zb.Z MILES. 
1 

OIOIT! I 
' ~. ~--:!: •
','dt&
~J.·.~-~ 
.

~ ·~k--~f'
co·~. 
I HE H~S DelVE 'IT! AJJD -~ HE':;, AB~OLUTElY 5P£ECH 
LESS!  
,  C.L~P  
(LAP  
(LAP  
Af(f YOt.l  
ALL RIGHT?  

Michael Molinelli 
OH NO! /.I~P,£" SHF COHE"S -;::. HDP~ ;r "[)ON'T 6.-\Y /H£ I.JRoi\IGy TJ-/INGt ... LJH-Af "DD I 
])o?..WHAI DO;[. 5A'{?(' 

Campus 
• 7:00 p.m. -llll'l'ting. hihk study. Io­o'shaugm:ssy. sponsorc:d hy l·arnpus nusadl· for 


christ. 
7:00p.m. 

Garry Trudeau 
II 
7:30p.m. 

I ANY LAIJGH5 NO MANHOlE AIUVG Tt/E STOOE5, IF WAY' Tt/AT!S WHAT 
8:00p.m.
I ~YOUM!fN 
y(~ 

( @ffi 
8:30 9:00p.m. I 0:00p.m.

Jeb Cashin 
10r30 
11:00 p.m. 
11:30• 
12:00 p.m. 

the infield 24 Tabs 60 Recline 25 Nobleman 
lazily 26 Bactrian 61 Appeared 27 -to 62 Recorded (realize) 
facts 28 Kidded 63 Night birds around 64 American 29 Avoid a 
naval hero duty 65 Play the 30 Frozen piccolo 31 Decree 
32 Stratum DOWN 34 Squeak Varnishes loudly 

2 Soviet sea 37 Be attrac· 3 Compassion live 4 Footwear 38 Golfing 
type gear 

5 "Tristram 39 Container Shandy'' 45 Amusing author Mickey 
6 Zane Grey 46 Impressed locales deeply 7 Israelite 47 Makes a king call 8 Sports 48 Tightfisted official 49 European 
9 -Aviv capital 10 Rounded 50 Pack 11 "To-and 51 Hero of Uri 
a bone..." 52 Cargo boat 12 Spanish ti3 City in painter Texas 
BJ(,' ANIJ U1T!./:'.· Mel Reed and /Jm·ky
13 Building 54 Concerning 
extensions 55 Unmixed Ifill are the lmiR ami short of it. The 6-•1, 18 Transport 57 Doleful 4.20 pound Reed is the /arRest hiRh school 19 Diamond 58 Sooner than 
football player in West VirRirlia. Tbe ·1-10, 
performer 59 Perform on 
7') pormd fUll is helietJed to ht• the smallest 
23 Tree trunk the diamond 
11arsity player ir1 the state. (AP Photo) 
Television Tonight 
16  Rt·al Pc:oplc:  
22  Jungk Book: Thl' \X'hitc lloust· St·al  
28  (;n·att•st Antt'rk'an llcro  
34  National (;t·o~o:raphil' Spl'dal ';0:\­ 
"Thl' lnvisihk \X orld"  
46  Mcssa~o:c for lht· llour  
22  Dr. Scuss: Tht· lloolll'r Blooh llijoth­ 
way  
46  Pattern for Living  
16  Diffrcnt Strokt·~  
22  CUS Wc<.l Night Movit· -"Thc Boy  
Who Drank Too Mut·h"  
28  Vcgas  
34  Makt· a Joyful Noist·  
46  Lcstcr Sumrall Tt·aching Sait•s  
16  NBC W'hitc Papcr-"Amcril'a-Uiat·k  
and Whitc"  
46  Thc Rt·ncwt·d Mind  
28  Dynasty  
34  Thc Primt· of MissJcan Brodil'  
46  Today with l.cstcr Surnral  
16  NewstTntt·r I h  
22  1.2 Eyt·witness News  
28  Nt·wswatch ..!H  
34  Tht· Did Cavett Show  
46  Christ is lh<' Answl'r  
16  Tonight Shov.  
Z2  <.liS l.atc Movk  
28  ABC Nt·ws Ni!(htlint·  
28  l.ovl' Boat  
34  Si!(ll ()ff  
46  Praist· t ht· Lord  
16  Tomorrow Coast to <.oast  
46  Sijotn OH  

Don't Miss Ihe ObserYer 
Irish Extra·­
-~ ~ ~ 
6 ~crY-~ 
,t:\,~ o~ ,.;,...~ Th. 
c,~0 ,(q'V 1s 
Saturday ... 
··································~
~~~IE~®rn rni\ill~~ rnrrcom~ CIDIFIF 
The L· S· U· Weekend with another 
''Wednesday Nite Hot Dog Special'' 
Come on out Thursday and tame the Tigers with a "Passionate Irish Kiss" 

Friday is our first Pre-Pep Rally Beer Garden Celebration open 4:30 PM to 
7:00 PM Senior Bar -open Wed, Thurs, Fri, Sat 9:30 PM -2:00 AM 
ACROSS Northern native 

5 Intelligent 
10 Takeon

cargo 14 Met music 15 Show 
amusement 16 Using speech 17 Performs in 
the outfield 20 Arch 21 Gent from 
Jedda 22 Protection 23 Bakery 
stock 24 What 

banks do 26 Coax 29 Overcharge 
time 36 Perform in the infield 40 -out 
(make do) 41 Noblemen 42 Sidekick 43 Influenced 44 High point 45 Attacker 47 Furniture 
piece 48 Monk's hood 49 Rome's 
old port 52 Plumlike 
fruit 53 Pallid 56 Perform in 
-----------~ ~-~-­


..... 
Rob Snyder (above) and the rest ofthe Notre Dame soccer team swing into action this afternoon as the Irish travel to Grace College for the 1981 season opener. (Photo byjohn Macor) 
Irish hooters kick off catnpaign at Grace 
In opener 
Odds favor Faust, Irish 
BEGINNER'S LUCK -For those who believe in tradi­tion, Saturday's football opener can be nothing other than a win for the Irish. Twenty-one ofGerry Faust's 23 head-coaching predecessors won the first games of their career:s at Notre Dame. Only Frank Hering ( 1896) and Elmer Layden ( 1934) failed in their opening bids as Irish mentors. 
As a team, Notre Dame owns an overwhelming 79-8­5 record in season openers, including a 58-7-3 success rate at hom•e. The Irish opened the 1980 season with a 31-10 win over Purdue here and posted a 12-10 win at Michigan in 1979. A 3·0 setback to Missouri in 1978 was the last opening day blemish on the Irish books. 
TIGER TAMERS-Notre Dame and LSU, who square off for only the third time this weekend, split their pre· vious pair of grid encounters. A 24-yard Scott Hempel field goal with 2:54 left in the game gave the Irish a 3-0 victory in 1970, while the Tigers avenged that loss the following season with a 28-8 win in Baton Rouge. 
The Irish and the Tigers are slated to meet three more times this decade, in 1984 and 1986 at Baton Rouge and 1985 back here in South Bend. 
GET YOlJR SPIRIT UP -Notre Dame officials are expecting as many as 10,000 people to attend Gerry Faust's first Irish pep rally on Friday evening. The rally, which is scheduled to start at 7 p.m., has thus been wise­ly moved from Stepan Oven to the basketball courts behind Flanner. 
FURTHER FAUST FOLKLORE -This month's issue 
of Inside Sports features 20 questions and answers 
about college football. The answer to question 7 ("How 
many stories will we read about new Notre Dame coach 
Gerry Faust~") supplies some more fuel for the Notre 
Dame legend machine. 
Along with visiting a nursing home in the South Bend 
area and giving Notre Dame coffee mugs to each of the 
residents, Faust was also the auctioneer at a charity 
event in Cincinnati this summer. Running short ofitems 
to sell, Faust removed his shirt and started taking offers. 
It sold for $65. 
According to the magazine account, a man in the back ofthe room shouted, "Hey, Gerry, I'll give you $30 for your pants." Faust hesitated, then slipped off his slacks and raised S230 more. 
And who said Gerry ·Faust wouldn't give you the shirt 
:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·>:·:·:· ::::;:;:;:;:::::::::::::::·:;:;::;::::::::;::=::::·:·:.....• ....................:••.::::.:.:1::::::::::::: ·~ :::: ~~~d/ 
=~m:~n:jji~!i}~:U~\k===~=~=~=~~~=~=jj~::m:n~n::~=~=~=}~:~:;:l ~{:::~===~=:=~=t~:::::::Jb 
:=:=:=======:=:=:====:================= 

Bill Marquard 
Sports Writer 

Irish Items 

offhis back? 

THESE BOOTS ARE MADE FOR WALKER -Inside Sports also has great expectations for Irish freshman Mark Brooks. In question 18 ("Who is the next Herschel Walker?"), the magazine looks to the 6-3, 225­pound Brooks to follow in the quick footsteps of Geor­gia's franchise-builder. 
BOOK REPORT -Faust's story was so interesting 
that over a year ago Danny Dressman, the sport editor of 
the Cincinnati Enquirer, decided to write a book about 
Moeller High School's phenom coach. When Faust was 
named head coach at Notre Dame, it added an entirely 
new chapter to the book. In fact, the book was rear­
ranged so that the press conference introducing Faust 
at Notre Dame became the lead story. 
The final product, entitledGerry Faust: Notre Dame's Man in Motion, is now available in the bookstore for $12.95. 
A DOUBLE SHOT -NCAA statisticians annually rate each college's football schedule in terms of the records of the teams each·school plays. Notre Dame's schedule. which features six 1980 bowl teams (Michigan, Purdue, Florida State, Navy, Penn State and Miami), is rated fifth toughest in the country heading into 1981. 
The four teams ranked above the Irish in schedule­
difficulty are Florida State, Penn State, Miami and Geor­
gia Tech. All four are opponents ofthe Irish this year. 
Last year, Notre Dame's slate. was rated ninth by pre­
season statistics and was ranked 13th at season's end. 
PIGSKIN PENTATHLON -Over the last five years, 
Notre Dame ranks as the 15th winningest team among 
Division 1-A schools during the regular season. The 
Irish sport a 42-12-1 five-year mark, while Alabama 
stands atop the quintennial performance ratings with a 
48-7·0 mark. 

See ITEMS, page 9
By RICK KRIST 
Sports Writer 

The Norte Dame soccer team begins its fifth varsity season this af­ternoon when it travels to Winona Lake, Ind., to take on Grace College. A pre-season match-up between the two teams saw Notre Dame walk away with an 8-0 victory. After that, the Irish return home to face Loyola on Friday and St. Louis in a key match-up on Sunday. 
Along with St. Louis, Norte Dame will face Top 10 powerhouses In­diana and Akron this season as part of a schedule which should give the Irish a chance for national recogni­tion. 
"This year's schedule is, without 
question, our toughest yet," says 
Coach Rich Hunter. The caliber of this year, including 12 at home. Of these, half will be played on Cartier Field and the other the newly sodded and fenced-in Alumni Field, located just west ofCartier. 
Returning to the squad this season will be 1 5 lettermen, and although Notre Dame's all-time leading scorer Kevin Lovejoy ( 6 7 goals, 19 assists) will not be among them, Hunter is confident that this year's forward line will feature a more balanced and consequently, more effective scoring attack. 
Leading the Irish on the field will be co-captains Sami Kahali at center forward and Jim Stein at center ful­lback. Kahali shared top scoring honors last year ( I I goals, eight as­sists) with Lovejoy. Stein is con­sidered by Hunter as "one of the finest defenders in the midwest." He 
the team's opponents this season is will anchor what should be a strong evidence of how far Norte Dame's defense this season. . . soccer program has come since it The team has anxiously been earned varsity status in 1977. The preparing for today's opener and Irish have compiled . a 77-21-3 Hunter is satisfied with the way his 
record, all under the guidance of troops have performed in practioe. Hunter. Last year, they finished 20·7, He admits, however, that he was their third straight 20-win season. concerned when some ofhis players 
The team will play 22 games in all See SOCCER, page 10 
Boasts experience 
Deepsecondary bigplus 
By MIKE MCMANUS 
Sports Writer 
Optimism abounds on the Notre Dame campus this week as the long­awaited opener against the Louisiana St. Tigers is finally only a few days away. A ne.w coach combined with old hands at nearly every position points toward a deep and talented 1981 Irish squad. And with the possible exception of the linebacking corps, the Notre Dame secondary aJPpears to be the deepest 
spot ofall on the roster. 
The defensive backfield that many pre-season prognosticators have proclaimed best in the nation is headed by senior John Krimm. The "old man" of the secondary, Krimm is a 6-2, 190-pound resident of Columbus, Ohio, who is entering his 
third season as a starter for the Irish. Krimm has been named a pre-season all-American by The Sporting News. Jim Johnson, who is doubling as secondary coach and defensive coordinator this season, feels, "John's biggest assets are his great speed and intelligence. We play him on the wide side because of his speed and he has become our big­play man in returning interceptions and punts." 
Few Notre Dame fans will forget his 49-yard interception return for a touchdown against Michigan last year. 
Handling the strong safety spot this season will be another hardy veteran, junior Dave Duerson. Duer­son, a 6-2, 200-pound native of Muncie, Ind., has been a starter since his freshman year and comes equipped with outstanding speed and strength, wh.ich combine to make him a ferocious tackler. In ad­dition, this season Johnson is looking to Duerson to assume the 
leadership  role  vacated  by  the  
graduated Tom Gibbons.  
"Dave  really  understands  the  

game offootball, and we have a lot of confidence in him. We look for Dave to be our quarterback out there." 
Duerson is looking forward to the responsibilities that are being thrust upon him this year. 
"I like the· responsibility. Once Crable makes the initial call that comes in from the sidelines it's my job to check the formations and determine if the original call suits the particular formations. If it 
See SECONDARY, page 10 

JOHNKRIMM STACEY TORAN 6-2, 190, Sr. 6-4, 195, So. ... Strong-side cornerback Weak-side cornerback No.19 No.30 Columbus, Ohio Indianapolis, Ind. 







