-

• .Dooley-J!age .3
• 

an mdep<-ndem student nt"WSpapt"r serving notre dame and saint mary's _ FRIDAY, JANUARY 16, 1981 

Seven students homeless 
Arson becomes OC worry 
ByJOHN M. HIGGINS 
dow and that he planned to file a ber of people entered. "They went
StaffReporter 
report with the police. through all of the drawers," one of Both off-campus and campus resi­A house at 823 Notre Dame 
the residents said. "They didn't do a dents became absentee crime vic­Avenue was also burglarized over very good job. He said rhe burglars
tims as one student house was set break. Someone broke in through a took a small amount of costume 
ablaze and a number of houses and bedroom window and just rifled 
jewelry.dorm rooms were burglarized through the house, resident Sean Other thefts were reported at 
during Christmas break. Most of the Heffernan said. They stole just really 713, 720, and MO i St. louis Street.houses were unoccupied when the strange things--an alarm clock, a $3'5 Campus thefts included: Incidents occurred. 
pair of basketball shoes, small stuff -Ski parkas and vest valued at
Arson investigators from the 
like that. But they left radio alarms 13369 stolen from the Recreation
South Bend Pollee and Fire Depart­
and a gold watch." 
and Sports Show In the ACC. 
ments are investigating a fire that oc­Heffernan said that the burglary 
-.Two stereo~ worth S700
curred at 80I St. Louis on D,ecember had not been reported to the police. 
stolen from Sorin Hall. (Students say28. According to the owner of the Off-campus resident Michael that visitors allowed to stay In thehouse, Louise McGann, the fire was someone en­
Tower said that had hall by the UniversHy may have had 
set during a burglary attempt. 
tered his house at 733 St. Louis something to do with the theft.)
"Someone broke In and set fire to 
through a second story window. 
-A stereo receiver worth 1250 
two couches In the living room and 
Tower said, however, that no good'i reported stolen from an (Jffice in 
one in the basement. Insurance-wise 
appeared to be taken from his Neiuwland Hall.
It's a total loss. The first floor and the 
residence. 
-560 In cash and S 1 '58 worth of
basement are just,.about gutted and Another burglary occured at a stu­
food reported stolen from the Corbythe second floor Is heavily smoke dent house on North St. Peter Street. 
Hall kitehen. damaged," Mrs. McGann com­Residents say that a jug was thrown -Two dozen autographed foot­mented. "I assume they burned it through a window in the rear of the balls valued at S480 discovered mis­because they couldn't find anything house, and an undetermined num­sinafrom a St(JraKUQQm In the: ACC.
worth stealing," one ofthe displaced residents, Mike Goodwin, said, ad­ding that they had removed most of their property before break. 
I d 
cl~·::s. fu~~i~ur:.~~~gc:O~~:~~~~~ ran sen sne-wmessage 
lot of appliances," Goodwin con-WASHINGTON (AP)-The Car-frozen Iranian assets and transfer The residents ofthis St. Louis Street house were the victims tinued. "They had to have come In ter administration received a new them to an account controlled by a of arson over semester break. Burglars set the blaze, through a window because all the Iranian message yesterday on terms third country, probably Algeria. according to South Bendfire officials. (photo by john Macor.] doors were bolted shut." for freeing the 52 American The: hostages would be freed un-
The seven students who had been hostages. V.S. officials said they der the U.S. proposal simultaneously living in the house moved into a could not predict that it would lead With delivery of the first installment another house owned by Mrs. to an agreement although "it war-to Iran. McGann and her husband, Thomas. rants close and intensive study." Iran's message, channeled
Haig receives approval 
McGann said he would like to Meanwhile, Iran's top negotiator through Algerian Intermediaries, rebuild, but he Is now in the process told his country in a broadcast that was described b}' the State Depart­of getting restoration estimates and today is th t e last practical day to ment as substantive. Its contents dealingwith his Insurance company. work out terms between the two na-were not made public.

from Senate committee 
Arson investigators refused to tlons. Behzad Nabavl said his Jack Cannon, a spokesman, sald "It comment pending further investiga-government "has no wish to begin warrants close and intensive study,

By lA.WRENCE KNUTSON asked FBI Director William Webster tlon. from scratch what It has ac-which Is now beingundertaken both
AssocU.Ied Press Writ" to began an investigation of un­A number of other students were compllshed" with the outgoing Car-by the American delegation In Al­
specifi~d "new developments" in vlctimized over the holidays. A ter administration. glers and officials In Washington."
WASHINGTON (AP) The Donovan's case. residence at 1II0 Eddy Street was , "Should there be no action He added: "until we have an op-
Senate Foreign Relations Committee -William French Smith ofLos An­of a tools, toward this end by the end ofoffice to evaluate Iranian
voted I 5-2 yesterday to recommend geles, personal lawyer and friend of robbed stereo, and a portunlty the 
television set worth S1300, accord-hours tomorrow, the circumstances response, we cannot predict whet-Senate confirmation ofAlexander M. Reagan, pledged "vigorous protec­ing to student Kevin Crough. "I had would radically be changed" from her it will enable the parties toHalg to be secretary ofstate, despite tion of the constitutional and 
questions raised by some senators statutory rights ofall our citizens" as the stereo hidden in the bottom of Iran's standpoint, Nabavl sald. resolve their remaining dlf­
my closet and covered with blankets The broadcast seemed to ferences."
about his role In the Watergate scan­the Senate Judiciary Committee 
dal. began hearings on his nomination to and boxes," Crow said. "They were coincide with the Carter admlnistra-Significantly, Cannon's statement 
thrown everywhere." tion's earlier admonition to Iran that referred to the Iranian response ~
Halg, one of the more controver­be attorney general. He faces sial of President-elect Ronald questioning about his membership 
He added that the burglars en-today Is practically the last oppor-substantive. This means It goes tered the house through a side win· tunity to free billions of dollars of beyond techincal details to deal

Reagan's Cabinet choices, Is ~ In two private California clubs that --··-______ with the merit ofthe terms.
ly certain to be confirmed by the full exclude women. -----------­
--~­
-----·-·-------------­
------At the White House, PresidentSenate next Wednesday, the day af. 
Carter met with his senior ad­ter Reagan Is Inaugurated. 
visersto study the U.S. response toThe two committee members 
ForLaFortune 
the less development, sald deputywho voted against Halg's nomina­White House press secretary Raytion were Sens. Paul S. Sarbanes, D­Jenkins.
Md., and Paul E. Tsongas, D-Mass. 


University allocates funds 
U.S. officials said they did notTsongas pralsed the former White By PAUL MULLANEY proposal estimated would cost un-dent effort for improved social space know when there would be an offi­House chiefofstaff and NATO com­Edttor-tn-Cbtef der Sl8,000. for two years. In an October, 1980, cial American answer to the latestmander for being "capable, Intel­The complete Jl00,000 renova­meeting with members of the Uni­message.
ligent, tough, pragmatic with a sense The University allocated 130,000 tion plan, proposed by Student versity's BoardofTrustees, Murday's In London, a wt:stern diplomatof history and a knack of retaining last Friday to begin renovation ofthe Government Executive Cordlnator current proposal was deemed who took part in a meeting withhis options," and predicted he LaFortune ballroom. The funding Don Murday, will be contingent plausible, and it was recommended Ahmed Azzizi, the Iranian primewould "absolutely dominate this ad­will be used to enact the first of a upon the success of the first phase. he bring his proposal to University minister's aide in charge of theministration." 

possible two or three-stage program Future conversion could include administrators. hostage issue, was quoted by CBS 
But Tsongas sald he opposed to convert the second floor Into a aesthetic touches including Meetings began Immediately news as saying Azzizi spok n Halg's confirmation because of the combination cof· private booths and tables -and a thereafter between students and ad­negative tones about the chances of risks involved, "the risks Inherent In feehouse/nightclub. possible kitchen. ministrators, leading up to last resolving the hosage issue soon. having all those enormous skills not This marks the first substantial "We have their (the University) Friday's meeting. At that meeting The unnamed western diplomat properly focused by a dominant commlttment by the administration committment they will go on with were: Thomas }. Mason, vice presi­was reported to have sald Iran's 
sense: of moral purpose. The risk of to comply with student requests to us If this first phase is a success," dent for Business Affairs, Fr. John L answer seems still to be very dif­expediency, despoiling the other­Improve campus facilities for stu­Murday said. "That's why it is so im­Van Wolvlear, vice president for Stu· ficult for Washington to accept be'· wise solid performance." dent social life. portant that it gets a good response dent A1fairs, Bro. Kieran_ Ryan, assis­cause it is too far away from the 
At other confirmation hearings The Initial phase ofthe renovation from the students, especially after all tant vice president for Business original American proposal yesterday: plan calls for the basics -the build­of our arguments over the last two Afalrs, Donald Dedrick, director of Before the Iranian message -The Senate Labor and Human Ing of a portable stage and the pur­years. Physical Plant, and Dr. James arrived, John H. Trattner, the State chase of lighting and sound "If it doesn't go, we'll sound like McDonnell, director of Student Ac­Department spokesman, reported
Resources Committee postponed a equipment and special accoustlcal liars and our hopes for a student cen­tivities. "positive movement" toward an

scheduled vote on New Jersey con­struction executive Raymond L work. The 130,000 is expected to ter will be squashed." Sec FUNDS, page4 •srcement and appeared to aoAen Murday has been heading the stu-the lnfonnal deadline.
Donovan to be labor secretary and safely cover what the student 




News Brie,b 
Friday,January 16,19s1-page2 

c============*==============================~
by The Observer and The Associated Press 
Alone female studentcross-country skiing Just east of 

Letters from lonely gods
Courtney Tennis Courts and the ACC w~ confronted yesterday by an 
armed black male and ordered to remove her clothes, according to Campus Security. While in the process of removing her clothes the male, for unclear reasons, discontinued his assault and fled in an un· known direction. The student was not touched physically. Security describes the attacker as male, 5'8" tall, wearing brown corduroy trousers and a ski mask. He appeared to be between 16 and 18 years old, they said. -The Obseroer 
Attorn.eys in the court-martial of Marine Pfc. 
Robert Garwood met in closed session with a military judge yesteday after the defense objected to the judge's remarks suggesting that Gar· wood should testify. Lawyers for Garwood, who is charged with deser­tion and colloboration with the enemy in Vietnam, were granted the four-hour closed session with the judge, Col. RE. Switzer, over prosecutors' objections. In an interview with The Associated Press on Wednesday, Switzer suggested that Garwood took the witness stand to bolster testimony about his activity during the I 4 years he spent in the hands of the North Vietnamese. As court began yesterday, chief defense lawyer John Lowe entered into evidene copies of the inter­view published in area newspapers. Switzer then granted Lowe's re­quest for a closed session, denying objections by prosecuters and 
reporters. Switzer said in the interview that if Garwood does not tes­tify it will raise "a legal problem." Lowe said Garwood "must personal­ly make the decision" about whether he will testify. Garwood said he was captured by the North Vietnamese in September 1965 while driving a jeep. Several psychiatrists called by the defense have said Garwood, a 34-year-old Indiana native, suffered .a mental illness that was compounded by torture and brainwashing. Former Vietnamese prisoners of war have told a jury of five Marines that Garwood wore the uniform ofhis captors, carried a rifle, helped guard Americans and took up the cause ofthe communists. -AP 
Afederal judgein Alexandria, La., refused yesteday to find a state judge in contempt for rulings that defied a desegregation order, and the state judge said he would ol>ey orders to enroll three white girls in an integrated school. U.S. District Judge Nauma Scott said he would allow the three girls to attend all-white Buckeye High School until the end of the semester if they attend Jones Street Junior High School after that, should they stay in public school. Scott ordered the three bused to the Alexandra school last summer. Their parents' ef­forts to keep them in the Buckeye school led to a confrontation be­tween Scott and state Judge Richard Lee. Scott announced the compromise after more than two hours of private meetings with 
lawyers in his' office. Both the Justice Department and Lee agreed to Scott's decision. Lawyers said the girls' parents and guardians would also be asked to agree. The settlement gives the girls credit for a half­year's schoolwork and r-:quires that no one violate Scott's desegration orders. The girls, their parents and guardians left court without commenting. Lee said in court he was dismissing the case from his jurisdiction. "Regardless of what has been done by myself and the parents and the guardians, these three children are bigger than me; 
they're bigger than you," he told Scott. "They will obey your orderand enroll, but do not deprive them of a half-year of their lives. We will enroll them." Contempt charges were leveled against Lee and the parents and guardians ofLynda McNeal, 13, Michelle Laborde, 13, and Ramona Carbo, 12. -AP 
Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini, Iran's leader, 
yesterday strongly defended President Abolhassan Bani-Sadr's con­duct of the Persian Gulf war in the face of new criticism by hardline Islamic factions that an Iranian offensive to drive out the Iraqi invaders had bogged down. Associated Press correspondent Tom Baldwin, meanwhile, reported from the Iraqi side ofthe war front that although the Iranian offensive sparked the heaviest fighting of the war, the Iranians lost ground on at least one front. There was a report in a Kuwaiti newspaper that Soviet-made T-72 tanks, the most advanced operational tank in the Soviet arsonel, had been "instrumental" in bel· ping Iraq repulse the Iranian counter-offensive. Khomeini, in a speech broadcast by Tehran Radio, admonished Iranians to stop criticizing Bani-Sadr. "You must remember that ordinary people do not under­stand the affairs of war," Khomeini said. "You must not say things which upset the leaders of the army, the president or the govern­
ment." His remarks were seen as a strong show of support for Bani­Sadr. The secular moderate president has been involved in a political power struggle with hard-line Islamic fundamentalists who control Iran's Parliament and tend to support Prime Minister Mohammad Ali Rajai. 
The govern.or of Massachusetts yesterday or­
dered schools closed to conserve precious fuel, while Florida orange juice producers jacked up their prices to record levels almost before the ice on the citrus trees had mdted. Acold wave spread across the East at Christmas, then eased up a bit, but light snow still sprinkled the icy sludge already on the ground. Waterways remained blocked and some cities were running out offuel to keep their people warm. "My request for conservation is not giving us satisfactory results," said the 
governor, who had decl~ed an energy emergency on Tuesday and asked residents to voluntarily tum their thermostats down to 63 degrees. 
Cloudyand coldtodaywith scattered snow flurries. High In the low 20s. Clear and colder tonight, with low in the teens. ­
AP 
We received a couple letters the other day from God -actually, we got a series ofthem, from three different beings (at least with different postmarks) claiming some special relationship with the Holy Trinity. 
We get stacks of mail daily. Most of it is business, but some of it is pretty strange. The psychopaths are, of course, well represented, as are those with a particular concern which they feel needs to be expressed to the community in general. But when it comes to religion, what better place than Notre Dame to announce your divinity? I chose three letters from our "other" pile which may our may not change your whole life. 
We have here a letter from the .messiah, or at least signed by Him, which has a New York City postmark. For my part, I was relie"ed to finally ascertain that New York is, in fact, the chosen city. The letter is printed in Old Engish script, which I have always assumed the deity uses for print, making the letter all the more credible. It lists a revised set of commandments for 
1980: 
There shall be no violence. 
Godgiven rights are inalienable. 
Man madepromises shall be kept. 
Alcohol shall not be ingested. 
Drugs shall be used 
curatively. There shall be no smoking. There shall be no gam· bling. There shall be no pros· titution. 
We shall behave toward others as we would have them act toward us. • 
Goods and seroices shall be priced reasonably and provided dependably. 
There are certain trouble spots here. Though the let· ter is dated Dec. 25, 1980, the title clearly labels these commandments for 1980. This suggests that either the messiah got his revelation late in the year (perhaps the postal service is respon· sible for this) or it suggests that even the deity is prone to typos. Second, I am wondering what the messiah is doing with commandments. Precedence would suggest that the Head Man Himself generally handles these mat· ters, preferably through a prophet, and a messiah clear· ly differs from a prophet. Theology trend watchers take note. 
My favorite of all these divine characters is a gentleman whose name is indicated on the letterhead as Eugene Changey, ofMaple Heights, Ohio. It is not simp­ly Eugene speaking here though, and this is made clear with his op~ning paragraph: As Alimighty God I greet you. 
Eugene/God sends a special cover letter to explain that He is in fact God, speaking through His son Eugene. Hei verifies, for credibility's sake, the truth of what fol­lows: a four page treatise on how the spirit of Bishop Fulton). Sheen has entered Eugene's body, and how the Bishop shows up to work with Eugene at "the shop," has coffee with Eugene, and shares other earthly concerns. 
The_Ohser.Y-e 
Design Edllor.......................John McGrath Design Assistants ..................... Mike Monk Kevin Korowicki Margaret Kruse Systems Control ................... Bruce Oakley News Editor...... : ....................... Lynne Daley Features Layout.................... Molly Woulfe Sports Copy Editor............... Mike Ortman Typist ........................................... Mike Monk DayEditor..................Ryan Ver Berkmoes Photographer..................... Unda Shanahan 
The 0bserver (USPS 598 920) Is published Monday through Friday. except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer Is published by the students of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $20 per year ($10 per semester) by writing The Observer, P.O. Box a. Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid. Notre Dame, Indiana 
46556. 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproductionrights are reserved. 


SENIORS: 
Have you had an experience in volunteer service ofsocial action serving the needs ofothers? 
Do you want to live a simple life in Christian community with others like yourself? 
Do you have a sense of ministry to the world and to the Church as a lay person? 
If so, we invite you to consider the Holy Cross Associates program. We have placements available next year in Oregon, California, Arizona, Chile and Kenya. 
Ifyou wish to explore further your ideals ofChristian service and community as a lay person, 

please contact: Volunteer Services orcall4397 

Eugene's references to himselfget somewhat confus­ing, a confusion to which all members ofa divine trinity are prone, when he switches from first person singular to first person plural: 
"The spirit of Bishop Sheen came forward...his departed spirit was in my body. I will always remem­ber his surprise to know his spirit was in the body of another human being--Mine. As We waited for anot­her bus, it was then I realized hisReverence--as be was called by my father--that his spirit was in Me, as that warm, Bishop Sheen smile lit up My face. 
Eugene's earthly body apparently has also played host to the likes ofJohn F. Kennedy and Martin Luther King. Eugene quotes King as saying upon recognizing 
his bodymate: "Mmmmm, here I am in a white man's body. Mmmmm." He con­cludes that Rev. King did not "understand the capability ofGOD." 
\ 
In his synopsis of of this strange occurence, Eugene tells us how the devil sometimes bugs him, but "that is why I take Tran­quilizers and blot him out." I suppose this would be an ex­ample of our previous mes­siah's admonition to only use drugs "curatively." He concludes his synopsis with the statement: "This treatise was written by Me personal­ly, and My Father, God, can verify it." 
Perhaps the most well-rounded and far-reaching of his concerns is a gentleman from California by the earthly name of Pearce Joseph Godfrey, who does not claim to actually be God, but begins his series ofletters with: "This is it, The Word, according to the Father, Son and Comforter of the Holy Ghost, forever and ever, amen." The central theme of his Dec. 15 letter is that pride is man's downfall, and the "big important" people of the world are of secondary concern to God. Pearce has other concerns too. In his role as prophet, Pearce has declared that "Kent State was the turning point, not only in the Vietnam War, but in the struggle of good against evil in the epoch of all time." Thus, Pearce declares he shall address the nation on this sub­ject from Blanket Hill at Kent State, "or other ap­propriate spot," on July 4, 1981. The speech will take place at noon and last "about 20 minutes." This last fact 
-that he can once and for all capture the struggle of good against evil in 20 minutes--proves to me that this man's talents reach beyond the earth's realm. He signs his letters "Comforter and First Instrument of the Holy Ghost." 

.-------------------­
The Observer Friday, january 16, 1981 -page 3 



Sacred Heart com.morates Dooley 
Goldie Hawn 
The 20th anniversary of the death of Dr. Tom Dooley, whose medical work in Laos and Vietnam in the late 1950's brought him international fame, will be commemorated Sunday at 12:15 p.m. in a Sacred Heart Churr.h liturgy. 
Rev. Austin Fleming, assoc­iate director of Campus Minis­try, will celebrate the mass. 
The campus observance will be part of a worldwide effort to pay tribute to the Notre Dame alumnus who resigned in 1956 as a Navy doctor serving in Indochina and founded Medico. 
This independent, non-profit medical organization provided health care in remote areas in Southeast Asia, and Dooley hH11self raised almost $2 million as well as overseeing the estab­lishment of 17 hospitals in 12 underdeveolped countries. 
Withe the late Dr. Albert Scweitzer as his mentor, Dooley was able to cross cultural 
WHC 
sponsors 
fast 
~y DIA!I!JE DIRKERS 
StuffReJX,rter 
Students once again have the op­
portunity to sign up for the Wednes­
day lunch fast, sponsored by the 
World Uunger Coalition. 
The WHC's objective Is to aid the 
world's poverty and hunger·strrrrrrrl 
nations. The fast, the group's 
greatest fund raiser, has been 
Increasingly successful since its 
formation In 197'5, according to An­
na Flynn, one of four student WHC 
directors. 
Last year, the fast raised over 
$20,000, all of which was dispersed 
directly to projects all around the 
world. Eleven thousand dollars col­
lected last semester is now on Its 
way to Impoverished people. Over 
1300 ND-SMC students partlcjpated 
In the tlrst·semester fast with a 
surprisingly low percentage break­
Ing their original commitments to 
abstain from 10 consecutive Wed­
nesday lunches. 
"Only a few hundred students 
eventually break their fast," Lou 
Reifschneider, WHC. director, com­
mented. 
Flynn and Reifschneider both 
stres..<>ed that the money raised goes 
directly to Impoverished nations. 
"We don't go through mid­dlemen," Flynn emphasized. "The people who receive our funds are natives of those countries. We are actually giving the people a chance to help themselves." 
Six projects -four In India, one 
In South Afric;~ and one In 
Bangladesh continuosly receive 
WHC funds. 
Flynn said the Indian projects consist of Indian natives who traln villagers In survival skills, such as aJlrlculture, Irrigation, and health 
care. These vlllagt·rs then return to their respective villages and pass on the knowledge gained. The WHC receives regular progress reports ­a system which in:1ures the correct appropriation of funds. 
By signing up for the f.lst, students invalidate their diulng hall cards for Wc:dnesday lunch:s. S,A(jA food service then don:ue'l 7"; cc:rltli ro the WHC for meals mi."!it:d. U t.hc: last Is broken, subsequc·: '' mc:ii! will not be credited to th<" .'HC 
.._._.....----­
barriers and save the lives of countless Asians. President John F. Kennedy, who awarded Dooley a posthumous Congres­sional Medal, said his example inspired the founding of the Peach Corps. A 1948 graduate, Dooley died January 18, 1961, after a two-year struggle wiht 
cancer, and his famous death­
bed remembrances of Notre 
Dame are read by thousands of 

vtsuors ewach year to the Grotto on campus. 
Other events honoring Dooley's memory are scheduled for Honolulu, Los Angeles, New York, San Francisco, Washing­ton, D.C., and his hometown of St. Louis, Mo., where the requiem Mass will be said by Rev. Maynard Kegler, American promoter of canon­ization For Dooley. 
Fr. Tom Dooley in 1959. 
Notre dame Student Union presents 
VINCENTPRICE 
.
tn 

11Diversionsand & Delights" ]anuar_y 24, 1981 7:30pm 0 'LauKhlin Auditorium 
Facult_y/Students $2.50 General Admission $6.00 _____. 
Tickets available inS.U. Ticket Office 
OPEN AUDITIONS ND/SMC THEATRE 
Chevy Chase 
Neil Simon's 
Sunday Masses 
at Sacred Heart Church 
5: 15 pm Sot 9:00am Sun 
10:30 om Sun 12: 15pm Sun 

7: J5 pm Vespers 
Rev. Robert Griffin I esc 
Rev. John Melloh ISM 
Rev. Dan Jenkyl esc Rev. Austin Fleming Rev. Don Jenky, esc 


"A Boudy I Colorful, Outrageous COMEDY!" 




A COUNTRY WIFE 
by William Wycherley 
guest director: FRANKCANINO ALL ARE WELCOME friqay 16 washington hall 7pm 
saturday 17 o'laughlin aud 1pm 

The Observer 

Friday, january 16, 1981 -page 4 

Fr. David Schlaver has been appointed director of ·campus Ministry. (See related story to the right) 
THE ND STUDENT UNION AND 
NSHINE PROMOTIONS PROUDLY PRESENTS 

.  BRUCE SPRINGSTEEN  ......  
~ :z:c:s::  >::z: ~  
a:::a  --1  

Replaces Toohey 

Ministry selects ne-w director 
By SUE KELLEHER 

lengthy process. A search commit­as the the inherent skills and talents StaffReporter tee consisting of Fr. Fitzgerald, Fr. required ofa director. Edward Malloy, C.S.C., Sister Judith
Provost Timothy O'Meara recent­Beattie, director of Volunteer As director ofcampus ministry, Fr.

ly announced that Rev. David E. 

Services and Sister Vereen Schlaver will repori directly to Rev.
Schlaver, C.S.C., will assume the Grinscheid conducted the survey. John Van Wolvlear, C.S.C., vice­position of director of Campus Min­Interviews addressed the crucial president of student affairs, and theistry at Notre Dame. 

pastoral needs of the 1980s , as well provost.
Fr. Schlaver replaces Rev. William 
A. Toohey, C.S.C., who died last Oc­tober 13. 
"Fr. Schlaver's training and ex­perience in pastoral theolo"gy, his 

service as a rector, his background • • .Funds 
in campus ministry and student af­fairs, his doctoral work in education­

Continuedfrom page 1 
al administration has recommended get date has been given. Murday and him for the position. I feel confident It was agreed that the University Student Government officials are that Fr. Schlaver will build on the would purchase the lighting and currently setting up the process of ministerial foundation laid by Fr. sound equipment from Andy Panelli, booking. 
Toohey in articulating the Christian former manager of Vegetable Murday indicated he hopes to es­
mrssage effectively in the changing Buddies, a now-defunct local tablish a student management staff 
secular milieu of the 1980s," nightclub. Panelli would also su­for the new club, which would 
O'Meara commented. pervise the installation and initial hopefully draw well-known profes­
Acting Director Rev. John use ofthe equipment. sional acts. He added, however, that 
Fitzgerald, C.S.C. spoke in behalf of "It is all top-notch equipment," turning a profit is not a priority. 
Camups Ministry, saying the staff 

Murday said. "The University is hel­
"We just want to make ends was delighted that Fr. Schlaver ac­

ping us go first class, and that's a 
meet," he said. "I think we'vecepted the position. good sign." 
decided our first weekend willAccording to Fr. Fitzgerald, the Architects have begun planning feature professional entertainment

search for a new director entailed a the new stage structure, but no tar-at no cost to students." 
:::c
,..., 



,..., 
~· 
--1 
:::a
,..,
,..,
L.l.l 

:z:: --1 
1-­


NlllS9NIHdS l~nHO 
MONDAY, JANUARY 26th, 8:00 P.M. NOTRE DAME ATHLETIC &CONVOCATION CENTER 
ALL SEATS RESERVED $11.00 -$1 0.50 -$1 0.00 Tickets on sole now at: A.C. C. Box Office; Robertson's, South Bend & Concord Moll; First Bonk, Main Branch; St. Joe Bonk, Main Branch; Elkhart Truth; Suspended Chord, Elkhart; all three River City Outlets including Michigan City; Record Land, Benton Harbor; JR's, LaPorte; Butterfly, Warsaw; Carma and Posstime in Fort Wayne. 




Editorial Board and DepartmentManagers 
Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556  Edltor-ln-Cblef...................................... Paul Mullaney Managing Edltor.......................................... Mark Rust  Sports Edttor.......................................... Beth Huffman Features Edttor.......................................Molly Woulfe  
The Observer is an independent newspaper published by the students of t~e  • Editorials Editor..............................Michael Onufrak  Pboto Editor ..............................................John Macor  
University of Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessanly  Senior Copy Editor.....................Mary Fran Callahan  
reflect the policies of the administration of either institunon. The news is reported  Executive News Edltor:........................Tom Jackman  Business Manager..................................Greg Hedges  
as accurately and as objectively as possible. Editorials represent the opinion _of a  News Editor.......................... , .................... Pam Degnan  Controller.......................................................Jim Rudd  
majority of the Editorial Board. _Com~enraries, opinions, and letters are th_e v1ews  News Edttor ...............................................Lynne Daley  Advertising Manager...................................Mark Ellis  
of their authors. Column s~;>ace ts. ~vatlable to all members of the c~mmunuy, and the free expression of varymg optmons on campus, through letters, •s encouraged.  SMC E:xecuttve Edttor..........................Margie Brassil SMC News Edttor......................................Mary Leavitt  Circulation M~UU~ger ............................lkth Hackett Production Manager........................... John McGnah  
-----­ ----------------'  



-----~------~------------------------------~ 
The Observer=== 
==============================~~~~-=-=-==-============ 




Weekend 
J<riday,January 16, 1981 ­


Campus 
Friday,Jan. 16 

•4:30 
p.m. -mathematics dept. lecture, the cartan map in higher algebraic k-theory, prof andreas dress, u. of bielefeld, 226 ccmb. 

•5:15 
p.m. -mass and sup­per, bulla shed. 

•7 
p.m. -open auditions, a country wife, washington hall. 

•7, 
9:15, and 11:30 p.m. ­movie, the electric horse­man, engineering auditorium, $1. 

•7:30 
p.m.-hockey, nd. vs. no. dakota, ace. 

•8 
p.m. -lion's club travelogue, surprising sout­hern california, robert ditta o'laughlin aud. 



Saturday,Jan.17 
•1:30 
p.m.-basketball, nd. men vs. hofstra, ace. 

•4 
p.m. -basketball, nd. women vs. miami, ace. 

•7 
p.m. -open auditions, a country wife, o'laughlin aud, smc. •7, 9:15, 11:30 p.m. ­movie, the electric horse­man, eng. aud $1. 

•7:30 
p.m.-hockey, nd. vs. no. dakota, ace. 


Sunday,Jan.18 
•2 
p.m. -basketball, nd. women vs u. of ill. chicago circle, ace. 

•3 
p.m. -guest artist, maureen belke, soprano, little theatre. 

•7:30 
p.m. -meeting, ur­ban plunge follow-up, n, emoriallibrary au d. 

•b 
p.m. -:-concert, brother robert leblan~ o.s.b., organ, sacred heart church. 




Urban Plunge follow-up 
One of the requirements for the Urban Plunge, the Follow-up Session will be held Sunday, Jan 18 at 7:30 
p.m in the Memorial Library Auditorium. Students who made the Plunge are requested to meet at this time. Faculty and resource persons will conduct brief presentations; small-group meetings will follow 
Charles Schulz 
VOU CAN 51T DOWN, 
SCHOOL PRA'fER
SIR.JHE TEACI-lER SAID SHE WA5N'T FEELING WELL, 
WORKS, MARCIE! 


Peanuts ® 
WHAT AM I DOIN6 UP HERE IN FRONT OF THE CLASS? HELP ME! ~ELP 


The Daily Crossword 
IT'S THE SECOND PROBLEM ON PAGE TWELVE, LORD. •. HELP ME ..I'M ~EREATT~E BLACKBOARD...PAGE TWELVE, LORD, HURRY', HURRI(,.. 
1/16/81

©1981 by Chicago Tribune-N.Y. News Synd. Inc. 

ACROSS 1 Those opposed 6 Eager 10 Family member 13 Searches for water 15 Half a 
train 16-Khan 17 Ham 18 Big problem 20 Is water 
repellent 22 Title 23 "-now 
brownc~w? 
24 Millay 25-sapiens 
Yesterday's Puzzle Solved: 

1/16/81 

' 
I I a 
26 Maryland 
Indian 28 Supporters 29 "You­
you eat" 31 Okapi's 
cynosure 33 Spice 34 Madeof 
clay 38 European river 39 Profitless oil well 40 Maori 
weapon 43 Actor Alain 45 Sway 46 Coupd'­47 Yippee! 


48 Explorer . Johnson 49 Make a scene 54 Aerial combat 55 Navajo 
dwellings 58 Soul: Fr. 59 Mideast 
title 
60 Moral nature of a group 
61 However 62 Detest 63 Sidekicks: 
abbr. 
DOWN 1 Fruit drink 2 -de plume 3 One who 
betrays 4 Gets ejected 5 Diviner 6 -impulse (is rash) 7 Reject a person 
8 National lodge inits. 
9 Fluffy part 10 Disease 11 Liquid 
part of fat 

12 Miss Loy et al. 14 Theater sign 
19 Exciting scientific news 
21 Demand from a teacher hit with an eraser 
22 Shore bird 25 Frump 26 Inspected 
by a would· 
be burglar 27 Pine 30 Secreted 32 Shed tears 35 Poet Alfred 
and family 36 A Raines 37 Born, in 
Bordeaux 
40 Extremely bonny weather 
41 In 42 Bull's·e~e 44 See 62A 50 Desire 51 Turkish 
commander 52 Article 53 List 56 Negative 57 Draft 
letters 
!}
• 
Your budding • career can blosso01as anAirR>rce nurse In fact, the Air Force is so concerned that your career blossom properly, we are offering 1an Internship Program to help you fine rune your newly learned skills. If you are interested in an annual starting salary of$14,300 and advancement to a minimum of$21,900 in just 3 years plus many othe~ _{>ersonal and professional opportuntttes contact: 
Jay). Beam rl~ · I 

at317·269-6377Collect /.J/~Y. I 
. A r A,:;.; ~ , I

47 S h P 1
out ennsy vama ve. l -~-~-..']. (},. .
Indianapolis, IN 46204 ·.•~7 
L' (\~~·
.


Air ro:rce... ~--...._ ,'. • A Great W.'ly of lit~­
The Observer 
Friday,January 16, 1981 -page 7 






Sports .Briefs 
by The Ohsat't'r ,tnd The As.mriated Prt'r.r 
Practice for Bengal Bouts will begin Monday at 4 
p.m. In the boxing room. The Bengal Bouts are scheduled for March I, 4 and 7. 
A testimonial dinnerhonoring retiring Notre Dame football coach Dan Devine and his wife, Jo, will be held Feb. II at the Athletic and Convocation Center. The Rev. Edmund Joyce, executive vice president of the university, will be master of ceremonies. Vince Dooley, head coach at the University of Georgia, will represent the American Football Coaches Association at the dinner. All letter win­ners from Devine's six Irish teams and all of his former assistant coaches also have been invited. 
A mandatory meeting for anyone interested in playing varsity lacrosse this spring will be held today at 4:30 p.m. in the ACC auditorium. Contact Coach Rich O'Leary at 4563 for more Information. 
Bob Gibson was the onlyptayer elected yesterday to the major league baseball Hall ofFame. The five-time 20-game win­ncr with the St. Louis Cardinals during the 1960s was named on 337 of 40 I ballots 36 more than the minimum. Former Los Angeles Dodger pitcher Don Drysdale was second with 243 votes, 58 short of induc­tion. Gil Hodges was third slugger Harmon Killebrew was fourth just ahead of long-time relief ace Hoyt Wilhellm and juan Marichal who finished sixth in the voting by the Baseball Writers Association of America. Thurman Munson, the late New York Yankees catcher who ·was killed in the crash of his private plane Aug. 2, 1979, received 62 votes. Munson was added to the ballot when the five-year waiting time 
was waived for him by directors ofthe Hall ofFame. -AP 
The WOmen'S trackclub practices everday in the ACC Concourse at 4:30 p.m. Anyone interested in participating is en­couraged to attend. Be prepared to run outside. For more information contact Cindy McNally at 8152 or Rosanne Bellomo at 6896. 
Fonner Chlcago White SoxcoachJim Mahoney has been named by the American League team to manage its AA class Eastern League farm club at Glens Falls, N.Y. Mahoney, 46, was with the White Sox as coach from 1972 through 1976 under former White Sox managers Chuck Tanner and Paul Richards. He spent the past four seasons managing teams in the Pittsburgh Pirates organization. -AP 
I 
.leers
• 

Continuedfrom page 8 

place finisher at the Great Lakes, along with junior Marcella Lansford, Kathy McCann and Denise Haradem, round out the top fencers for the women. Newcomer Charon 
DiNicob will also be vyingfor a spot. 
The Belles of St. Mary's, under coach Greg Mueller, also begin their season this weekend. Saint Mary's returns all of their starters from a team that went 7-4 last year. Sharon Moore, 28-I 0 in 1980, captains the young St. Mary's squad. Among the top returnees are Michele Strohman, Ann Hendrick and Eileen Mendeq. Also returning to the squad after a year ofstudy in Rome is junior Twila Kitchin. Kitchin posted a mark of25· 18 in her freshman season with the Belles and should hold down one of 
the top spots. 


scoring with 23 goals and 29 assists 
ATTENTION COLLEGE STUDENTS 
for 52 points. In the nets, sophomore Darren Jensen has seen most of the action. lie brings a 9-2-1 record and a 4.I6 
You may be eligible for a two-year Air Force ROTC scholarship. The scholarship includes full 
goals against average into the series. 
tuition, lab expenses, incidental fees, a reimbursement for textbooks, and $100 a month tax free. 
For the Irish, senior forward 
How do you qualify? You must have at least two years of graduate or undergraduate work remain­
Kevin Humphreys has scored six goals In his last four games and is tied 
ing, and be willing to serve your nation at least four years as an Air Force officer. Scholarships are 
with Kirt Bjork, Jeff Logan and Dave 
available to students who can qualify for pilot, navigator, or missile training, and to those who are 
Poulin for the lead in scoring with 
majoring in selected technical and nontechnical academic disciplines, in certain scientific areas, in
22 points apiece. 
undergraduate nursing, or selected premedical degree areas. Non-scholarship students enrolled in
IRISH ICINGS -ESPN, the 24­hour TV sports network, will 
the Air Force ROTC two-year program also receive the $100 monthly tax-free allowance just like the 
televise both games on a tape-delay 
scholarship students. Find out today about a two-year Air Force ROTC scholarship and about the 
basis... ON-TV of Cincinnati also will 
Air Force way of life. Your Air Force ROTC counselor has the details.
televise Saturday's game live... next 
week's series against Denver will begin at 7:30 both Friday and Satur­day nights ... a notice that the second game would be played Saturday af. ternoon was incorrect... tickets for the Feb. 27-28 Wisconsin home series are available now, and the amount could dwindle over the next few weeks as the annual caravan of red-cowboy-hatted Badger fans prepares to migrate to South Bend for the weekend. 
~ 
.. .Fencers 
Continuedfrom page 8 
The sabre squad returns starters Greg Armi, who finished 14-3 in the I980 Great Lakes Championships, good for fifth place and se.nior Sal Muoio who racked up 23 wins against only five defeats. Rounding 
out the sabre squad are Sal D'Allura, 
6-4 in I980,Joel Tietz (9-l ), Charles 
Derr (7-4) and Michael Molinelli 
who spent last year sharpening his 
skills in Rome. 
The epee squad's top two retur­nees are junior captain Kevin Tin­dell, who completed last season with a 28-8 mark, and sophomore Rich Daly. Daly had an impressive rookie outing with a 23-5 record and the Irish entrant in the 1980 nation­als. Daly also finished second in the 

Gateway to a great way of life. 
1980 Great Lakes Championships with a 17-2 mark. Fighting for the third spot are seniorJim Gunshinan (9-6) and Scott Rutherford who is making the switch from foil to epee. Others In contention fo the third spot are Ron Joe and Chuck Konzel­man. Irish coaching aid Thorn Cul­lum feels that epee will be Notre Dame's strongest weapon. 
Coach Bill Kica's women's team also will be in action this weekend. The Irish women finished at 1I-2 last year and are returning six fen­cers from a team that took second at the Great Lakes Championships in 
1980. Sophomore captain Susan Valdiserri heads an experienced and talented squad. Valdiserri finished her initial season with a 2I-13 record. Liz Bathon, 30-I 0 and a third 
Contact 
Capt. Gottrich (283-6635) For More Information 


51400 U.S. 31 NortH mile south ofline 
,-------------------.----------~

15% off 
I I
!I . on all non-sale purchases 1 1 1 until Feb. 28 I "-----------with coupon------....J 
--Tables, stereo cabinets, desk chairs and contemporary lighting priced less than you expect ! 




-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
Friday, January 16, 1981 -page 8 




-SRQrts 
No. 7 Irish to host Hofstra 
"We played great ball for five quarter court, trap press -they'll
By GARY GRASSE¥ 

weeks," said Phelps, "But we didn't be all over us," he predicted. 
Sports Writer 

play well at all in the two (losses). The only previous encounter be­We were still in the game, though, tween Notre Dame and Hofstra oc­Aquestion many Notre Dame bas­
which was encouraging. Right now curred four years ago in a first-round ketball fans have been pondering of 
we need some rest." NCAA playoff game in Philadelphia late should be answered once and 
All-America forward Kelly won by the Irish 90-83. 
for all tomorrow afternoon. 

Tripucka leads the Irish in scoring Senior Lionel Harvey, the"What's a Hofstra?" 
(18.5 ppg), rebounding (6.3 rpg), Dutchmen's leading scorer at 21.6 
Ask l'>igger Phelps. 

and free throw percentage (.823) to points per game, is a standout at for­
"Hofstra's not a bad club," said the 

date. Senior classmates Orlando ward. The 6-5 Harvey transferred to 
Irish coach, whose club is trying to 

Woolridge (14.3 ppg) and Tracy the Long Island school from Cincin­
cure a two-game losing skid that 

jackson (11.5 ppg) continue to nati, where he was the Metro Con­
came at the tail end of a three-week 

supply much of the scoring punch, ference's top rookie in 1977-78. 
road trip during Christmas break. 

while sophomore John Paxson (9.4 6-8 David Taylor, Harvey's
"They've got a couple real good bal­

ppg) has adapted well to the frontcourt mate, is scoring at a 15.6 
lplayers in Lionel flarvey and David 

playmaker role and handed out 61 rate and leads Hofstra in rebound­Taylor." 
assists. ing. Gary Cheslock, a 6-8 forward,The seventh-ranked Irish, now 8­
"Kelly's playing very well right and guards Dan Rumph and Doug3, will tipoff against coach Dick 
now," Digger remarked. "He didn't Swanson round out the Dutchmen Berg's Flying Dutchmen at I :30 p.m. 
shoot well the other night (against lineup. Starting point guard Steve in the ACC. Hofstra, which is located 
USF), but the same guy's just not Brawley left school for academic in Hempstead, N.Y. and represents 
gonna do it every time. reasons. the East Coast Conference, is 6-7 on 
"What we've got to work on," he The only Irish casualty for tomor­
the season following Wednesday's 

said, "is the defense. I think our row's contest is senior Gil Salinas. 
seven-point loss to LaSalle. 

defense broke down against Mar­The 6-11 forward was sent crashing"It'll be nice to be home again," 
quette and San Francisco. We didn't into the suppports underneath the said Phelps. "We've been on the 
do the things on defense in those backboard in the second half of the road for nearly month and now we 
games that we did with Kentucky San Francisco game by the come back to play nine of our next 
and Indiana." monstrous Wallace Bryant. As a 
ten at home. Hopefully, that will al­

Phelps expects Hofstra to put result, Salinas strained ligaments in 
low us to get back in the groove 

plenty of defensive pressure on the his right knee. He hopes to be ready
again." Notre Dame's eight-game 

Irish. for the Maryland game next Satur­winning streak, which included the 
"They'll press full-court, three-day. sweetest of victories over Kentucky and Indiana and propelled the Irish as high as fourth in the polls, came to an end last Saturday against Mar­quette in Milwaukee and turned into For leers Digger's second-longest losing streak in seven years with Tuesday's 66-63 overtime defeat by San Fran­
The time is now
cisco. 

controlling or own destiny and can
~====~==============================================~-=ByBRMNBEG~ 
Sports Writer help ourselves with a good perfor­mance. 
The month of February -the "If we don't fare well, we could most crucial period in college get hun badly in the standings.
Irish women aimfor .500 
hockey -has fallen early this year North Dakota is an outstanding team for the Notre Dame hockey team. and I expect a very physical and 
The Irish embark upon a two­exciting series. It is going to be By CRAIG CHVAL It should be noted, though, that down road trip, but with seven of week, make-or-break home stand tough, but I hope the fact we are on Sports Writer the Irish have been guilty of con­the next eight games slated for the tonight and tomorrow when the our home ice will help." 
tributory negligence on at least a· ACC, DiStanislao hopes to build Western Collegiate Hockey Associa­The Irish may have trouble fmd­A dog chasing its tail. That's what few occasions while they have been some momentum. tion's first place team, North Dakota, ing help here. Notre Dame is 1-5-0 
Notre Dame women's basketball flirting with the break-even mark. The Redskins are coming off their pays a visit to the ACC. Faceoff both against WCHA competition at the coach Mary DiStanislao must think They took one step closer to .500 best season ever, but that collective nights is scheduled for 7:30 and ACC and 4-4-0 versus league teams she's watching when she sees the Wednesday night with a 77-71 vic­sigh of relief came from Notre WSND-AM ( 640) will broadcast live on the road. cruel tricks the women's collegiate tory overTaylor, but it wasn't pretty. Dame's front line, which won't have around campus. North Dakota, . the defending basketball world is playing on her Notre Dame led 40-23 at the half, to contend with 6-5 center Deb The Irish, in ninth place in the WCHA and NCAA champion, moved 
Fighting Irish squad. but the Lady Trojans clawed back in­Grushon. The Redskins' leading WCHA with a 5-9-0 record (9-12-1 into first plac.-la~t wee.lfend by 
Notre Dame will try to reach the to the contest, and were as close as scorer of a year ago has seen action overall) after splitting last week at beating and tying Denver at home. .500 mark .for the fourth time this three points late in the game, in just five games this winter while Michigan Tech, find themselves in a The Sioux took an 8-6 victory the season when the Irish put their 5-6 outscoring the Irish 48-37 in the battling an ankle injury. precarious position. Coach Lefty second night after both teams tied 
record on the line against Miami second half Shari Matvey's 21 points Smith's club is two points out of 4-4 the first game. Coach Gino After an 82-57 thrashing of Mid­
(Ohio) and Illinois-Chicago Circle (that gave her the all-time Notre eighth place, the last playoff posi· Gasparini's club is 9-4-1 in the American Conference rival Toledo
this weekend. The Redskins and Dame scoring leadership) along tion, and it cannot afford to drop fur­WCHAand 16-5-1 overall Irish will tangle immediately follow­with four late free throws from Wednesday night, Miami will bring a ther behind. The Irish also host third Freshman center Troy Murray has ing the Notre Dame-Hofstra men's Sheila Liebscher, helped seal the 7-10 record into the ACC for its ini­place Denver next weekend at the been having an outstanding season 
tial clash with the Irish. Carol
game Saturday afternoon, and The Lady Trojans' fate. ACC. for the Sioux. He leads the team in Bruning, a 5-8 swingman, has pic~ed
Circle will pay its first-ever visit to The game itself was a microcosm "This is a crucial period for us," See ICERS, page 7 
up some of Grushon's scoring slack,
the ACC Sunday at 2:00p.m. of Notre Dame's recent up-and-Smith said. "We are in the position of 
averaging 11.2 points per game to lead the squad. Bruning is the only Redskin averaging in double figures, but four other players -Kris
Inexperienced fencers to 
Livingston, Cindy Gibson, Mary Ann Myers and Amy Cooley -score bet­
ter than eight points per game.


open tomorrow at Tri-State 
Sunday, the Irish will attempt to 

DeCicco had his squad report
By TOM VALDISERRI atone for a 71-59 loss at the hands of 
back to South Bend onjanuary 10 to
Sports Writer The Circle in Chicago last winter. 
begin two-a-day practices in 
Last year's Chicago Circle team 
preparation for this week's opener.
The Notre Dame fencing squad finished at 17-10, but All-America 
The Irish lost their number one
opened its 1981 fencing season on forward Sharon Carroll has trans­
men in each weapon from the 1980
the road this Saturday at Tri-State. ferred, taking her 22.7 point and 
squad to graduation but return the
The Irish will be facing Cleveland 14.7 rebound averages with her. 
numbers two and three in each. InState, Purdue, Wisconsin-Parkside foil, senior Ray Benson returns as In Carroll's wake, The Circle has a and Tri-State. Although the Irish captain, Benson compiled a 20-13 3-9 record, but may have found anwon easily over these opponents in record last season. Along with Ben­heir-apparent to its scoring1980 by the score of 18-9, 19-8, 22­son, junior Jim Thompson who machine. Ava Walker, a 5-6 junior5, 24-3 respectively, Head Coach posted a 21-6 record as a sophomore guard, is scoring at a 1 7.8 clip andMike DeCicco is not taking them and second year man Marc de Jong grabbing 6.8 rebounds per game.
lightJy. "Cleveland State is among (17-7) round out the top foil men. Until a recent mini-slump, shethe top fiv~ fencing schools in the Making up the balance of the strong ranked in the Top Ten nationallyMidwest", says DeCicco. "They have foil team are Junior Jaime Colley with a scoring average ofbetter thanthree great fencers, one of them, 


It may only bejanuary, but it is already "do-or-die" time for Lefty
Capo, seniors Jim Sullivan, Enrique 20 points. Walker is also nationallyCarlo Sangini, won the 1980 Nation­
Smith (above) and his Notre Dame hockey team, as he takes his squad
ranked with an average offour steals
al Championship in epee", he adds. See FENCERS, page 7 
into this weekend's borne series against league-leading North Dakota.
per game. 


.___________________________________________________________________________ 



