, , .Turner Fund -page fJ 



President Ronald Reagan meets in the Oval Office at the White House Monday with El Sal­vador's President jose Napolean Duarte. It was 
Improve campus life 
CLC, Student Senate act together 
VOL. XVI, NO. 23 an mdependent student newspaper serving notre dame and saint mary's WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 23, 1981 
By SHEILA SHUNICK 
News Staff 
On October 31,1977, a Campus Life Council was authorized bv the Board of Trustees of the Univ~rsity of Notre Dame. Its purpose was to provide "an authorized forum where students, faculty, and ad­ministrative personnel could dis­cuss matters affecting student affairs and make appropriate recommenda­tions directly to the Vice-President for Student Affairs." 
In tht· past, the CLC has not been that productive. According to Don Murday, Student Body President, "nothing ever got done." Various student affairs were discussed in the council, but their results were never seen by the student body. Some sort 
of organization that would serve to unite the student body, giving stu­dents a place to go with any sugges­tions about student affairs, was needed. Thus, the student senate was formed last year. 
This year, Murday hopes that the CLC and the Student Senate can 

· begin to work effectively together in an effort to make ND "campus life" better. Students could bring proposals to the senate, where thev would be either passed or rejected. Those issues the Student Senate deems viable would then pass on to the CLC. If the CLC agrees with and passes the issue, it would then pass on to Fr. Van Wolvlear, Vice­President for Student Affairs. who has the power to approve or veto it. Ifan issue is vetoed, and the senate is still in favor of it, it can be appealed to the provost and ifnecessary to the president. According to Murdav, the rectors are the pivotal part of the CLC. Since 
Dillon student sustains 
bodily injuries in fall 
By MICHAEL SCHIERL 
News Staff 
Dillon Hall sophomore Chris Gus­taf.o;on fell from the balcony of his third floor room Monday morning. He is reportedly in fair condition and good spirits following initial treatment for a broken ankle and two injured vertebrae. 
The accident occurred at about I0:4S when Gustaf.~on, who had been studying on the balcony, at­tempted to re-enter his room through the window. The actual fall was witnessed by two other Dillon residents, Dave Me Avoy, his roommate and P.j. Vritis, a first floor resident whose room is directly below Gustaf.'ion's. 
Uritis, who heard a scream and noticed something fall pa'it his win­dow, was the first person to come to Gustafson's aid..\1c Avoy, along with first-floor resident John Langon, im­mediately notified campus security. who in turn called for an ambulance. Campus security and the ambulance were on the scene within minutes according to Uri tis. 

Dillon Hall Rector Father Daniel Jcnky, who accompanied Gustafson to St. Joseph's Hospital, said "Gus remained conscious the whole time even though he was experiencing tremendous pain." Jenkv indicated that Gustafson was taken ·immediate­ly to the x-ray room while "I gave them the necessary information and called his father." 
Dr. Bernard Vagner performed surgery on Gustafson's ankle later in the day. The ankle. which was broken in three places, required the insertion of pins. 
Gustafson is soon tq,be placed in trat·tion for two compacted, cracked vertebrae injured in the fall,according to VIc Avoy. Jenky in-
See FALL, page 3 

the rectors are the ones who have the actual day-to-day contact with the students, their input is very im­portant. 
See CLC, page 3 

Reagan seeks mutual trust with Soviet Union 
UNITED NATIONS (AP)-Presi­dent Reagan, in a letter to Soviet President Leonid. Brezhnev that was reported here yesterday. said the United States is prepared to "establish a framework of mutual respect" with the Soviet Union. 
Soviet Foreign Minister Andrei Gromyko, addressing the United Na­tions General Assembly. told the delegates his country desired "normal businesslike relations with the United States." 
Reagan struck his conciliatory tone in the letter to Brezhnev on the eve of a meeting at the United Na­tions between Secretary of State Alexander M. HaigJr. and Gromyko to prepare for formal negotiations to restrain deployment of missiles in Europe. 

The text of the letter was not released, but State Department spokesman Dean Fischer provided reporters with a statement that he said was based on the letter. He reported that Reagan said, "To achieve better U.S.-Soviet relations. the United States is fully prepared to discuss with the Soviet Union the entire range of issues dividing the two countries." 
Fischer said the letter was sent Monday and delivered in Moscow yesterday. 
He reported that Reagan said Poland should be left alone to work out its own problems, and "any other approach would have serious consequences for all of us." 
Rca~an was critical of a Soviet arms buildup and warned a~ainst Soviet intt·rvention in Poland, fis­cher said. Howcvn. the lcttn dear­ly could set the stage for improved relations with •he Soviets following nine months of uncompromising criticism. 
Gromyko. in his formal address to· the General Assembly, said "The Soviet Union has not sou~ht nor is it scckin~. confrontation wth the United States of Amnica." 
Hut Gromyko also denounced what he dt·scribcd as "attempts by certain quarters in Western countries ... to shake loose the socialist foundations of the Polish State." He dcdarcd Poland would remain "a firm link in the common family ofthe countries ofsocialism." 
As Gromyko spoke. ll.N. security guards closed ~atcs and two dozen police oflkers lined a restraining wall to prevent about c;oo pro­Afghan demonstrators from break· in~ into the compound. A megaphone was shattered as police wielded nightsticks to hold back the dt·monstrators sur~ing toward the wall. 
Tht· demonstrators said they wnc protesting the Soviet military inter· vcntion in Afghanistan. 

As volunteers 

Senior citizens group ranks first 
By RANDOLPH E. SCHMID 
Associated Press Writer 
WASHINGTON ( AP) -If the generation that came of age in the '70s was the "me" generation, the genera­tion now approaching age 70 might be called the "thee" generation. 
By the thousands, older Americans arc flocking to 
give of their time and talents as longer lifcspans lead 
more and more people into the ranks of the retired. 
Now a decade old, the Retired Senior Volunteer 
Program boasts more than 319,000 people, aged 60 and 
over. who each year donate more than <;7 million hours 
of their time. 
The organization W ...,,,~ . will celebrate its 

EDNESDAYMtWii 
~:;:2:~;,~t:~~~;~ i~r~;j;;:~:::::::;*~f F0 CUS 
planned activities for this week's an­nual RSVP convention here. About 60 senior volunteers are expected to attend. 

For one elderly man or woman, the attraction to volunteer work is to try to share the joys of a long life, for another it's helping ease the pain of death. For thousands it's a rewarding chance to help both others and themselves. 
"I enjoy everything about being an RSVP volunteer. Being needed is the big reward. And it helps keep me young at 81 years. It makes me feel like a useful citizen," said Lois Wayland of Omaha, Neb., who tutors disad­vantaged youngsters. 
Another volunteer is Mary Feick, 8 I, of New Haven, 
Conn., who remembers the despair of a relative who 
died ofcancer in 1972. 
:vtrs. Felek explained that her sister-in-law "was very 
low and wanted to talk to somebody outside ofthe fami­
ly. You see, at that time we didn't want to talk about 
dying." 
A young Roman Catholic priest befriended the 
woman, who wasjewish. He would "come in and talk to 
her by the hour, and she got such... -like a catharsis," 
:vtrs. Feick said. 
Today Mrs. Feick volunteers ht·r time at a local hospi­
tal coordinatin~ visits to the skk by ministers, priests 
and rabbis. She lets them know when parishioners arc ill 
and suggests when to visit them and their familks. 
When she heard about the hospital's program, in Oc­tober I972, "I thought to myself. I thought, 'Oh, this is just for me.' When I joined up I knew that was the job for me. 
"To me it's a great joy. I tell you honestly, Igo to ~·ork with the grt·atcst ofplt-asurc. Idon't know what 1would have done. God help us if that RSVP ever folds up, me and a million others." 
RSVP volunteers around the country -lawyers, 
teachers, carpenters, d()(:tors, hricklayers and so forth 
-receive no pay for their efforts, at It-ast not in money. 
But the federal government spt·nds about S27. 7 mil· 
lion a year to administer the program. That's about SH7 
a year per volunteer, or 4H cents per hour worked. 
The Reagan administration has proposed a modest 
incrca~·· in next year's RSVP budget, to S2R7 million. 
Dr. Harold Gunn, 61, a retired Detroit spct·ch pat· 
hologist, said his interest in counseling troublt-d young 
men is sustained by the success stories. 
He recalled one particular youth, a small boy who was picked on by his peers and had been shuffled be· tween foster parents and grandparents most of his life. With Gunn's help and encouragement, he enrolled in a 
job training program, earned a high school cquivalt:ncy diploma and now hopes to enter college. "There may not be any money in volunteer service but this is a reward money can't buy," Gunn said. 
Among the senior volunteers scheduled to attend the RSVP convention is 77 year-old Donald Mortlock of Laurel, Del. 
Mortlock retired I I years ago from a job as an in­surance auditor in Buffalo, N.Y., and moved to Laurel where he founded the I,000 member Indian Rive; Senior Center. 
Mortlock said he started the center because he was 
just not inclined to spend the rest of his life in a rocking 
chair. 
He kicked offoperations in an Episcopal Church with 
just 35 members. 
See GROUP, page 3 




~~~~cjEJ==~==t=·~~~~~========~~==================W=e=d=ne=s=da=y=,S=e=p=te=m=b=er=2=3='=19=8=I===p=ag=e~2 
by The Obsen'er and The A.rsociated Press 
Fr. Theodore M. Hesburgh, PresidentofNotre 
Dame since 19S2, will be honored for academic leadership Oct. 15, during the annual meeting ofthe American Council on Education in Washignton D.C. He will be cited for his "outstanding lifetime con­tribution to higher education." The award was first given last year, and recipients were Edmund]. Gleazer, president of the American Association of Community and Junior Colleges and Clark Kerr, for­mer chancellor and president of the University of California, and former president ofthe Carnegie Council for Policy Studies. Fr. Hes­burgh will also be part of a ninety-minute "conversation with Theodore Hesburgh" on the meeting program. -The Observer 
SheriffRalph DeMeyer ofSt. Joseph County, who 
was convicted last week on federal extortion charges, tendered his resignation yesterday, effective Nov. l. DeMeyer, a lifelong resident of the county, was convicted Thursday and is scheduled to be sen­tenced Nov. 6 in U.S. District Court. A democrat, DeMeyer said he "still cares about the St. Joseph County police department's ability to carry on as a unit." County Democratic precinct committee will elect a replacement. DeMeyer was convicted of seeking election campaign contributions from an admitted madam in return for ignoring her illegal operation. He said the decision to resign was made by himself, his wife and his attorney, Robert Gonderman. He said no party officials were involved in the decision. -AP 
Despite finding that two interrogators promised 
2nd Lt. Christopher M. Cooke immunity from prosecution if he would cooperate, a military judge ordered the former missile con­trol officer to stand trial for espionage yesterday. The judge, Lt. Col. David Orser, said Cooke did not get the immunity promise from the only man legally entitled to give it: Gen. Richard Ellis. Ellis, now retired, was commander-in-chief of the Strategic Air Command when Cooke was arrested in May. Cooke was deputy commander of a Titan II nuclear missile launch crew at the time. One of Cooke's attorneys, Kenneth Fishman, said Orser's decision would be ap­pealed immediately to the Court of Military Appeals. He asked Orser to delay the court-martial pending the appeal. -AP 
A Phoenix, Ariz. juryofseven women and five men found former U.S. Attorney General Richard Kleindienst innocent on all counts in his perjury trial yesterday. Kleindienst, S5, broke into sobs after hearing the verdict. Surrounded by his family, he said, ''I'm OK. I'm OK." The jury deliberated more than eight hours in a trial that was in its sixth 'week. As the bailiff read off the "not guilty" verdict on each of the 12 counts, Margaret Kleindienst, the defen­dant's wife, sat with her arm around her husband. Several of the jurors smiled. When the final "not guilty" was announced, Klein­dienst, who served as attorney general under former President 
Richard Nixon, began sobbing loudly. Kleindienst later told repor­ters, "I am glad it is over." -AP 
A Turkish air force jet fighter crashed and ex­ploded yesterday in a bivouac area prepared for a NATO exercise, and reporters at the scene said at least 100 Turkish soldiers were feared dead. Military sources said 26 bodies were counted but they expected the toll to rise because a fuel dump was reported hit by the plane. Hospital sources said more than I00 soldiers, including dead and injured, were flown to Istanbul by helicopter from the crash site, near Babaeski. about 30 miles from the Greek border and 70 miles 
northwest of Istanbul. The Turkish military imposed a news black­out after initial reports that the jt:t that crashed was an F-1 04 and that at least I00 soldiers were killed. Turkey's military ruler, Gen. Kenan Evren, announced over state radio later that an F-S crashed, and that there were "several casualties." Gen. Haydar Saltik. commander of the 1st Army garrisoned in Istanbul. went to the crash site, military sources said. -AP 
Gov. Edmund G. Brown Jr. took to the airwaves yesterday to defend his handling ofthe Mediterranean fruit fly infestation, saying state officials were "getting the medfly under control." The governor spoke on a 24 hour stint as guest host on a listener call-in show on radio station KFBK, his third of four scheduled radio shows in four cities. -AP 
The Tunisian government banned the wearing of chadors yesterday in schools and government offices in an ap­parent move against Moslem fundamentalists blamed for campus disturbances last spring. The chador is a robe worn by women and covers their bodies from head to foot. In many Islamic countries, the chador has become t~e symbol for the resurgence of :Vtoslem fun­damentalism. The ban was issued in a circular distributed by the M inis.try of Education. -AP 
Mostly sunny and cool today. Highs in the low 60s. Clear and cool tonight with a low around 40. Mostly sunny and a little warmer tomorrow. Highs in the upper 60s. 

The Drinking Game 
Students getting drunk is a part of college life. It comes with the territory. For a university not to ac­knowledge this and accept it as a part of the college social scene is naive. Drinking is a common college event. From coast to coast, there are students getting drunk in every university. This is not to say that this is good and proper, because it certainly is not. But what college kid (or graduated adult for that matter) can honestly say that he or she has never been drunk. I mean never, not even a little. I'd like to meet anyone who can claim eternal sobriety -they certainly deserve a com­mendation. But the fact of the matter is, almost everyone has, does, or will get drunk once or more in the course of their college experience. This must be accepted by the University. It is a simple fact oflife. 
Getting drunk most certainly is an abuse. The problem here is not one of breaking rules; the problem is one of destroying bodies and minds. A hangover is meant to tell your body that you screwed-up the night· before and drank a little too much. Now, overindulging every so often, although not physically, mentally, or spi~itually uplifting, is not going to create any long-term problems for anyone. But a rcpetitous drinking problem will eventually tear a person apart from the ground up, and rebuilding 
the foundations is no simple task. 
This is where a university should place all ofits alcohol policy efforts; the alcohol policy of this University must be directed toward treating alcoholism and not suppressing college drink­ing in general. To try and stop people from oc­casionally getting drunk ­that is certainly a waste of the University's time. Conse­quently, the administration must abandon its present, in­effective, and naive alcohol policy. By trying to treat stu­dents as children, dictating no to this and no to that, we 

know damn well that many will disobey simply for the sake of disobedience. The United States government dm be a perfect example to the administration with an event of the 1920's called Prohibition. It didn't stop drinking in any real way, it just made it a big game. 
Consequently, less effort must be expended by the University to control student drinking; its present policies just focus undue attention on normal drinking. More attention and effort on the part of the University must be expended on seeking out and treating problem drinkers on this campus. Those who get slightly in­ebriated every so often arc not a problem, but a typical example ofa student. It is those who MUST drink every weekend, often to the point of alcohol blackout, that the University must concern themselves with. The inane alcohol policy of present is but a superfluous at­tempt to bury the problem of alcoholism rather than solve it. 
This, ofcourse, brings me to the most obvious flaw in the University's illogical policy: the famous keg rule. We have been told that kegs promote excessive drinking. 

Photo Editor 
Inside w_edn_esday 
Well, I guess that follows from the same rationale that lofts are structurally similar to the Hyatt Hotel in Kansas City. 
Excessive drinking is promoted by an attitude, not by a keg. The attitude that one must drink to have a good time and be socially acceptable, most often gets people drunk. Beer in either bottles or a keg is the vehicle upon which one supports this attitude. To make a distinction between beer from bottles or from a keg is sheer malarkey. The University should attack the attitude problem, and leave the kegs alone. Restricting kegs just makes people get drunk on bottles. If the University were to be consistent with their objectives, a total ban ofalcohol on campus would be better than the keg rule; but this is totally impractical. Banning the use of kegs is 
simply sidestepping the al­
cohol problem. But it is the University's convenient excuse for an alcohol policy. 
Alcoholism at Notre Dame is what the ad­ministration must deal with, not normal student drink­ing. The University must seek out those unfortunate individuals who can no lon­ger responsibly control their drinking. THOSE WHO CAN DRINK RESPONSIBLY SHOULD BE LEFT ALONE. Their drinking is not destroying their lives. It is 
with the alcoholics and their 
rehabilitation that the Uni­
versity must concern itself 
All of its efforts should be 
focused in this area. The services and counseling 
available at Psychological Services should be publicized 
and made even more informal so that anyone might be 
comfortable to go there for help. The problem of al· 
coholism at Notre Dame should be brought out into the open and not shovelled in with student drinking. This is what the present UHiversity alcohol policy wishes to do, and that is dead wrong. Adrastic change in emphasis is immediately needed in the administration's alcohol policy. 
Alcoholism at Notre Dame, however, is simply not the University's problem; it is our problem too. We call ourselves the Notre Dame community, and that is an apt description. As a part of that community. we must be aware ofthe problems ofour fellow students, especially ifone has a drinking problem. It is our obligation to help anyone who is drinking themselves over a cliff. All it takes is to make someone aware of the problem; talking to a rector or even calling Psych Services can get someone to reach out to the alcoholics. Somebody has to do this, because it appears that the present University alcohol policy fails to even acknowledge their exist­ence. 


f--The_Ohs.er.Yer_ 
Design Editor. ....................... Grq~ Swil'n.:z 
Dt•sign Assistants... .. Pollv lludak 
Tim ~~dy 
Typesetter ........ Ron .Joe ,Veu•s Editor...... . .... Tim Vl'rct·llotti 
Copy Editor ............................ Valerk Evans Sports Cop)' Editor ............... Mik~ Ortman 
Typist............... ... .......Jeanilll' Hynes 
St•stems Confm/ ................... llrutT ( lakley 
.VD Day Editor... . ..... Paul \1cCJinn 
S.HC Dar Editor... ..... ~1arv Kay Hogan Ad Design.......... . ....... Fran. lloh. ~t<:. Photographer ....................... Rac·hd Blount (;uest Appearances ......Sexists All Cartoonists of Vari(ms PnH.:Ii\'itil.'s 
Assortcd Do-gomkrs And featuring: Tht· return ofTht· Systt·m! 
The Observer (USPS 598 920) is published Monday through Friday and on home football Saturdays. except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is published by the students of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Col­lege. Subscriptions may be purchased for $25 per year ($15 per semester) by writing The Observer. P.O. Box a. Notre Dame. Indiana 46556. 
The Observer is a member of The Associated Press. All reproduc1ion rights are reserved. 
Second class postage paid at Notre Dame. Indiana 46556. 

******
MISHAWAKA FRATERNAL ORDER OF POLICE 
In Association With EAST WEST THEATRICAL PRODUCTIONS.INC.
* * 
* 


* 
THE STARRING DANNY & DRIFTERS & THE JUNIORS 


* * SATURDAY-SEPTEMBER 26, 1981 AT 8:00p.m.
* * 
MISHAWAKA HIGH SCHOOL 

******
For Advance Tickets Phone 259-1288 Parties of 4-6 $15.00 

The Observer Wednesday, September 23, 1 981 -page 3 

Professions in History 



Lecture series opens tonight 
By DAVID RICKABAUGH these professions. The series receives funding from SeniorStaffReporter "This will hopefully stimulate the Shurz Communications Founda· people to think about the historical tion. Inc., and The Indiana Commit­
A series of eleven lectures on the forces that have shaped their own tee for the Humanities in professions in American histon· profession and the role which theirs cooperation with the National En­begins tonight with the lecture and other professions have played in dowment for the Humanities. "Law: The Development of a Profes­American society." Hatch explained. 
sion" at 8 p.m. in the Center for Currently. plans call for revised Continuing Education. versions of the kctures to he The lecture features Harvard published hv the Notre Dame Press graduate Maxwell H. Bloomlleld, and released around the spring of 
,,,Group
from the Catholic University of I YH3. In addition. the Freshman 
America. discussing how the role of Learning Resource Center plans to 
the lawyer has changed <;ver time. video tape the lectures in order to 
continuedfrom page I 

The series. sponsored hy the provide students with the ability to Notre Dame Department of History. examine the history oftheir possibk "By the end of the year we had occupations. 1.20, by the end of ...., I \\'l' had 2"i0
w.ill consist of six lectures this semester and t1ve lectures in the Hatch said that to his knowkdge 
' 
and we kept picking up new mem­spring semester focusing on the his­this is the first lecture series dealing bers. It was much needed around tory ofvarious professions. with tht· background of professions here. apparently," he said. According to Nathan Hatch. 
to be done in this t;1shion. "\X'e grew to "iOO hv I Y7"i and we 
Each lecture consists of a formal had to stop taking in. members he­tory.. the lectures will address the 
Director of Graduate Studies in His­

lecturt· delivered hy the main cause we wert· crowding out the history ofeach profession. ,:, speaker with questions from the hall," he said. "The purpose of the series is to 
tloor and a panel discussion by per­A federal grant tilr a new civic ten· bridge the gap between the sons from the local communin· to ter allowed the group to expand. humanities and the professions; we follow. . and it now houses 1,000 members. will bring to South Bend the best Thi.· Notre Dame Center for "We had .2"i0 out to a luncheon available scholar for a serious hut Continuing Education and the Ccn· yestcrdav and we're worried now nontechnical lecture," Hatch stated. tury Center in Sputh lknd will al­about crowding out our room 
"The speakers for each lecture arc ternate as the host location ti1r the again." said ,\1ortlock. 
the leaders in their Held along with series.. The senior citizens center has a being authorities in the history of The program. which concludes part-time secrt·tary and a custodian that profession as \\'ell." on April 25. tiJcust·s upon the profcs· hut is otherwise operated by volun­
The importance of the series. sions of law. mnlidne. higher teer workers. atcording to Hatch is "to educate education. psychology and counsel­
"We're all volunteers so we can't people as to how professions got to ing. government. science. business spend seven days a week thert·. \\'e he the w:~y they are and hopefully management. journalism. the clergy. ,compromise and spt·nd 61," ht· 
enable them to better understand the militarv, aqd ~ngi~n-ring. joked.

HPC_fortns cotntnittee to distribute funds 
,........................................................ 

the Student Senate, suggested that the members of the HI'C take sur­
Br TOM SHAUGNESSY 
)

"THE WASHINGTON MERRY-GO-ROUND"
Nt•u•s Stliff 
IN PERSON
veys in their respective halls 
AT THE 
At it~ weeklv meeting last night, concerning the men's laundry 

THE 

~'f· *

the IIall Presil!t:nts Council formed a 
service and the possibilities of 
MORRIS CIVIC AUDITORIUM budget t·ommittce to distrihute the 
making it optional for male students 
~jltf\~\~\\1.(~1\N

FRIDAY· SEPTEMBER 25 
S<HOO which was allotted to the 
and availablt-to female stulknts. 8:00P.M. 
(~~ FORUM

III'C by the Student Government 
This survey. said Calahan. \Viii give 
JACK ANDERSON-LAST YEAR YOU
Hudget Council from the Basic Stu­STUDENT DISCOUNT COUPON
the Senate statiMics to present to the HEARD HIS DYNAMIC ASSESSMENT dent Government Fund. OF THE CARTER ADMINISTRATION; 
THIS COUPON ENTITLES BEARER TO A TWOI$2)

Administration. Calahan added that 
DOLLAR DISCOUNT PER TICKET !FOR A MAXIMUM

THIS YEAR, THE FIRST YEAR OF THE 
The committee, consisting of llve OF TWO 121 TICKETS) WHEN PURCHASING TICKETS
opening the 1--.IUndry service to the REAGAN ADMINISTRATION. 
AT THE REGULAR TICKET PRICE. TO JACK ANDER

memhers of the HPC, will divide 
female population of the campus SON GREAT AMERICAN FORUM, FRIDAY. SEPTEM· SY.200 ~~f the allotment among the JACK ANDERSON -PULITZER PRIZE· BER 25, AT THE MORRIS CIVIC AUDITORIUM. NO
could offset the business lost hy WINNING INVESTIGATIVE REPORTER CASH VALUE. COUPON STUDENT I D. MUST
residence halls after considering the AND 
BE PRESENTED AT TIME OF PURCHASE.

making the service optional to the AND SYNDICATED COLUMNIST. 
hall budgets, which will he sub­
VOID AFTER SEPTEMBER 25, 1981 

men.
mitted hy tht· hall presidents at next JACK ANDERSON -WASHINGTON In regard to a bit of old business. BUREAU CHIEF OF PARADE MAGA·
week's meeting. The remammg 
ORDER BY TELEPHONE ZINE, AND DAILY COMMENTATOR ON 

the loft regulations, :\-like McAuliffe, 
CHARG-A·TIK

5200 will go to the HPC contin­ABC-TV'S "GOOD MORNING AMERICA." 
Carroll Hall's president. pointe_d out 
295·6254

gency fund. 
that the University Administration is ALL SEATS RESERVED·$10.00/$8.00/$7:00 ON SALE STARTING SEPTEMBER 8,
IIPC President Mike .\1artin 
MASTERCARD OR VISA ACCEPTED 

AT THE CENTURY CENTER BOX OFFICE, S.B. • ELKHART TRUTH READER'S SERVICE, FIRST
not always the "had guy." Carroll
remarked that. while the amount all­NATIONAL BANK. ROBERTSON'S JUDD DRI./G STORES. ELKHART • JUDD DRUG STORES, 
I~ I
VISA 
'MASTERCARD

recieved almost S I 000 in com­GOSHEN • GALLERY 100. MISHAWAKA. • ORDER BY MAIL: THE GREAT AMERICAN FORUM, P 0.
ocated to the IIPC is not as great as 
, i I
BOX 1812. ELKHART.IN 46515-1812 


pt·nsation for lofts that had heen
last year's, he was not disappointed. 
torn down.
Brian r·alahan. a representative of 





, , .Fall 

continuedfrom page I 
dicated that the doctor taking x-rays saw "no sign of neurological damage or loss offC:cling." 
(;ustaf.~on withdn:w from school for this first semester vesterday un­der the advice of his doctor. 
"lk is optimistic about returning as soon as possible after that. A lot of Dillonitcs arc going to be visiting him every dav. \X'e'rc all pulling for Gus," said \k Avoy. 
"Actuallv. it's quite lucky that he's alive hccaus1·. as I understand it. he · did a compluc hack-flip before lan­ding on his fect,"said.Jenkv. l'ritis in­dicated that "there were deeply embt·dded foot marks in the spot that he landed due to the forct· ofthe fall." 
The fall has prompted Jcnky to raise the hall fine for sitting on the balconies from S2"i to S"iO. In :~ddi­tion. Dean of Studt·nts .James Roemer has issued a cautionan· note stressing the dan)!er of balcony use across the campus. according to the :"Jotrt· Dame Information Services. 
Synchro­
1 touch I 
r-­
tape

I I 
system 

I 
Q.uasat: 
CS7600 AUDIO SYSTEM 
• Bu1lt-in, front load record • playback Cassette section w1th Synchro Touch Tape System. Dolby No1se Reduct1on System. metal tape capability. Mult1-funct1on Vu meters. 3-diglt tape counter • DC Servo Belt Dnve Automatic Record Changer with magnet1c cartndge. Low Mass S-shaped tone arm • AM, FM·Stereo Radio • 3-way multi tuned port speaker system. 8·. 31/2 ... 2112 .. speak­ers and 3·position h1gh frequency level control • Model CS7600. 
RCA 13';,,,•"""' XL-100 
Roommate color TV 
FICA's sharp. brtght small-screen color TV-now even beller wtlh Automaltc Color Control and Fleshtone Correct1on Other delu11e IPaluros 
• 
RCA's energy-elltctsnl XlendedltiP Chassts destgned lot e:~~cellent performance and long hle-uPies only 67 walls of pownr on averagR 

• 
Accul1ne black matrt:~~ p1clure tube prov1des ll sharp. htgh·contntst ptcture 

• 
Automat1c Ftne Tumng (AFT) p1npomts and holds the corroct broadcast s1gna1 

• 
Contemporary styled durablE' plastiC cabinet w1lh be1ge fm1sh 



Stereo ads as low TV Rentals as low 
I 

as $1.00 a day as $.80 a day 

call us at Sun Appliances ~ Television 291-5112 
r 
Wednesday, September 23, 1981 -page 4
~ The Observer 





~ SCOTCH ~ ~O~L 

MYERS RUM 
750 ML. 
. 

101° Charles LeFranc 
WILD TURKEY 999 Maison Blanc 
750 ML. Maison Rouge
=•. 

;;; SEAGRAM'S GIN 599 0 d" Rh. 299 
.6.-;:::: 750 ML. n Ine Ine 750 ml 
KOSHER WINES FOR 
THE HIGH HOLIDAYS 
Concord or Golden 
MOGEN DAVID 



HAMM'S 
24/12 OZ. CANS Concord. 259 MANISCHEWITZ 
Pina Colonetta 
26 9 75o MANISCHEWITZ 
7so 

CARMEL WINES FROM ISRAEL 
MALAGA _______ 3 67~o RICHON RED ____ 441~0 
SACRAMENTAL 

J99 449
GRAPE _ _ _ _ _ RICHON WHITE _ 75o
750 


7-UP, DIET 7-UP COKE OR TAB YOUR CHOICE! 
r-~--~--~--~~--------~----------------------------------------------------------~-~~--­
The Observer Wednesday, September 23, 1981 -page 5 

Latest cuts opposed 


Reagan plans budget address 
WASHINGTON (AP) -With 
Rt:publican leaders balking at any 
new slash in Social Security, Presi­
dent Reagan planned yesterday to 
take his case for further budget cuts 
dirt:ctly to the nation. 
But while he invitt:d Americans to 
tune in tomorrow night for somt: 
tough talk aides said he would con­
sider. meanwhile, the advice of his 
GOP allies that Congress simply 
won't buy elements of his latest 
package, totaling 516.3 billion in ad· 

ditional cuts for 19H2. ' 
"The president belit:ves it is par­ticularly important at this timt: to speak to the American people on his plan to rebuild the economy," said Deputy Press Secrt:tary Larry Speakes. All three commercial net­works said they would carry the 9 
p.m. address. 
Speakes said he had heard nothing to indicate the president had changed his mind about seeking a delay in the cost-of-living increases scheduled for Socal Security and several other retirement and welfare programs next year. But he ack­nowledged that the chief executive wants "more timt: to consider" that decision in light of a report from Senate Majority Leader Howard 
Raker Jr. that such cuts won't fly. 
Congress already has approved 
eliminating the S I 00 per-month 
minimum benefit under Social 
Security t, and some efforts are under 
way to reverse even that move. 
"Tune in at 9 o'clock" tomorrow, 
the president told reporters in the 
White House Rose Garden. Asked if 
he would tell Americans "tough 
facts" about the economy, Reagan 
replied, "Yes." 
Reagan's tentative plan calls for 
postponing a scheduled cost-of­
living increase in Social Security 
benefits July I to Oct. I. There 
would be cost-of-living delays in 
eight other social welfare programs, 
as well. 
But the two top Republicans in Congress. Baker of Tennessee and House Republican Leader Rob Mic­
hel of Illinois. told Reagan personal­lv on Monday he faces likely defeat on that score. Sources said they cau­tioned the president the package would likely fail in the Democratic­controlled House, and prevail in the GOP senate only after a difficult and politically costly fight by the majority Republicans. 
Opposition centers around tht: Social .Security proposal, but one source said there is no general con­sensus that a new round ofspending cuts is necessary. 
Some of Reagan's strongest sup­porters have suggested deferring the cuts in personal income tax scheduled for 19H2 ;;nd 19H3 as a 
... CLC 
continuedfrom paxe 1 

The CLC consists of eighteen members. The six hall rectors are Fr. Richard Convers (Keenan Hall), Fr. Thomas King ( Zahm Hall), Fr. Mario Pcdi (St. Ed's Hall). Fr. George Rozum (Alumni Hall), Sister .Mariet­ta Starric ( Lyons Hall ), and Mrs. Dolores Ward ( Pasqucrilla West). 
The faculty members are Stephen Hayes and Alexander Hahn. Also in­cluded in the CLC arc Dean of Stu­dents James Roemer, and Vice President for Student Affairs (Non­voting) Fr. John Van Wolvlcar. 
The Chairman of the CLC is Stu­dent Body President Don Murday. Other student representatives in­clude Student l'nion Director Rill Lawler, Judicial Coordinator Carol Silva, Lloyd Burke from the Hall President's Council and Student Senators Clare Padgett, Patricia Hiler, Brian Callaghan. Tom Weith· man, and Matt Huffman. 
way of reducing the deficit without cutting Social Security. There is no evidence the president is consider­ing such a possibility. 
Meanwhile yesterday, Treasury Secretary Donald T. Regan told Congress the adminstration will stay the course with its policy of tax and spending cuts and tight control over credit. 
"We shall keep our balance and composure. So will the economy," Regan said in remarks prepared for the House Budget Committee. 
On spending cuts, Regan said, "We must continue to specify and adopt the spending reductions needed to bring the deficit down to ... S42. 5 billion in fiscal year 19R2, and into balance in fiscal year 1984." 
Regan also said the administration would propose curbs on so-called -"off-budget" programs that in· elude loans and loan guarantees, and that many analyst ts say help keep in­terest rates high. 
On taxes, he brushed aside any suggestion of changing the provi­sions of the three-year reduction Congress passed earlier in the year. 
Appealing for cooperation in Congress with the president's program. he said the nation's finan­cial markets will respond positively when they see the administration is determined to stick with its economic policy. 
"...This is just the point when pre­vious administrations have cracked under pressuire and dramatically revised policy." 
. "Given this history. mark<:ts arc understandably uncertain as to what policy will be in coming months. Un­fortunately, there is nothing worse for markets than uncertainty," he said. 

CILA members recount summer volunteer work 
ByJIM PLAMONDON 
News Staff 
On Wednesday, Sept. 16, the Community for the International Lay Apostulate ( CILA) presented a slide show on their journey to Los Ninyos in Tijuana, Ml'Xico. CILA Summer Projects sent five Notre Dame students to help the 100 families and their children who live under miserable conditions just one mile from the U.S. -Mexican bor· der. 
"These families built their homes out oftrash, cardboard, and recycled aluminum," described Ken Kula, one of the CILA volunteers who made the trip. The students began their day by teaching the children several subjects including Spanish. 
English, reading and writing, social studies, physical education. and 
even music. 
In the afternoon they made lunch for over 500 children each day. Later in the day, they worked in an or­phanage where infants were abandoned simply because their parents could not afford them..Mot· hers were educated as to the nutri­tional needs oftheir children. 
During the evening they brought 
food and other necessities to men in 
the local jail, who could not possibly 
pay their way out. 
"Not only did we bring love and care to them." remarked Celeste Hank, "but they also gave us love and affection." 
CILA Summer Projects hopes to sponser more services like that of the Tijuana trip in what will be . CILA's 20th year of volunteer work. 

St. joseph CounZJ' SheriffRalph DeMeyer u•ore a glum expression yesterday as he announced his resixnation effectir•e Nor•emher 1. The,decision came in the wake ofDeMeyer's federal court cmwic­tion lastu•eek on a corrnption in office charxe. ( AP Photo) 

ATTENTION 




HOMECOMING MEETING 
For All Interested Including Hall Reps 

Tonight 

ot7PM in STUDENT moN OFFICE 



The SOUTH BEND~orriott lfotet announces the opening ofits Employment Center. 
Guest Services Bell Captain Front Desk Clerks/Cashiers Front Desk Supervisor Bell Staff Reservations Agents Gift Shop Sales Clerks/Cashiers Pool Attendants Parking Garage Cashiers Coat Room Clerks Cashiers · 
Positions Available 
Food and Beverage Services 

Waiters and Waitresses  Kitchen Station Attendants  
Restaurant  Kitchen Utility Personnel  
Cocktail Lounge  Room Service Operators/Cashiers  
Room Service  Banquet Captain  
Banquets  Dining Room Attendants  
Hosts and Hostesses  Kitchen Aisle Attendant  
Restaurant  Baker  
Cocktail Lounge  Employee Cafeteria Supervisor  
Bartenders  Employee Cafeteria Utility Personnel  
Bar Backs  Broiler Cooks  
Cooks  ·  

Interviews will be held on the following days ONLY: 
Monday. September 21. 1981 9:00a.m.-5:00p.m. Tuesday. September 22. 1981 9:00a.m. -5:00p.m. Wednesday, September 23, 1981 1:00 p.m.-8:00p.m. Thursday. September 24. 1981 1 00 p m. -8:00 p.m. 
Support Services Telephone Operations Supervisor Security Guards 
Telephone Operators Housekeepers Linen Room Attendants 
Linen Room Supervisor Senior Housekeepers Housekeeping Aides Meeting Room Set-up Personnel Building Maintenance Personnel Night Auditors Accounts Receivable/Payable Clerks Refrigeration Mechanic 

If you are interested in a position with the new South Bend Marriott Hotel. please come to our Woodward Court Employment Center on the interview dates shown. Phone calls cannot be accepted. 
Location of the South Bend Marriott Hotel. Employment Center in ,--,-----------..,........, downtown South Bend: 
-COLFAx AvENuE ·•o"'" ,, __j L_ Enter Employment Center from 
~ -------------­Woodward Court Between 
~ ~:;t;i,!'!!T· ~ 
Colfax Avenue and 
-cENTER 
Washington Street. 
, • I/ \ 
Soultl Bend Marrloll Holel. 
_j g, 
.._ L___l !: '~~ Opening 
_~~-TON~ E•,'!_N-m..: 1981 


~~,, ~ ~ 

We are hiring now for the new South Bend Marriott Hotel. The South Bend 
., E JEFFERSON BLVD 
Marriott Hotel will be open in early November 1981. 

.. 
ReflectingE§=..~-E§­




South Bend's l.Omorrow. 
_\\orriott~ 

An Equal Opportunity Employer 
The South Bend Marriott Hotel is dedicated to a Guarantee of Fair Treatment for all our employees, thorough training and attractive wages and benefits. 
This is your opportunity to join our Marriott Team at this exciting time ... the opening of the new South Bend Marriott Hotel. 

f 




Editorials

' 
Observer to stage Turner benefit 
Athletic rivalries are at the very heart of Notre Dame's existence. USC football games and Kentucky basketball games are part of what make this a very special place. But sometimes, those rivalries must be overlooked. Sometimes. an issue or occurence much bigger than the rivalry, or sport itself, arises. 
Last December, Bobby Knight brought the Indiana University basket­
ball team to South Bend to renew an old rivalry. The Irish won that 
game, but the Hoosiers had the last laugh. In March, they won the 
NCAA Basketball Championship at the Spectrum in Philadelphia. 
It was the high point in the careers of a number of players, and it may 
have marked the end of the career ofone. 
In July, Landon Turner, Indiana's outstanding forward, and one of 
the men most responsible for the success of the Hoosiers late in the 
season, was injured in an automobile accident. He is still in an In­
dianapolis hospital. 
We at The Observer are saddenned by the tragedy that has befallen 
Turner. We feel a need to overlook the Indiana-Notre Dame rivalry. As 
Christians, more than as Notre Dame students, we want to do something 
to help. 
Therefore, we are establishing our own fund to help defray the cost of 
Turner's medical care. From now until December I st, when Notre Dame 
once again will play Indiana on the basketball court, we will accept 
donations for that fund. 
The drive will begin Sunday, September 27 with a softball game be­tween the Notre Dame basketball team and coaches, and members of the local media. Our efforts will continue throughout the upcoming months as we try, in some small way, to help. 
Donations will be accepted in person at The Observer offices, or through the mail. Please make checks payable to OBSERVER­LANDON TURNER FUND and mail them to: 
The Observer 
LANDON TURNER FUND 
P.O. BoxQ Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 
We pray that someday Landon Turner will return to the basketball court. We would welcome him, as a friend, and as a competitor. We ask everyone in the Notre Dame familyto help us show our concern, and our respect, for a very talented athlete. 

-------------------------------------------------------~ 
Wednesday, September 23, 1981 -page 6 

Cody's 'persecution' defense not viable 

Two weeks ago, the Chicago Sun­him guilty. This is not the first time Times published reports of an on­that Cody has been under fire; he has 
Anthony Walton 

going federal investigation into the had a very controversial 16 years as financial practices of John Cardinal archbishop of Chicago. In one of the Cody, the prelate of the Chicago most recent controversies, Cody was Outside Wednesday I archdiocese. There is not yet any ver­roundly criticized for a series of ghet­
. diet, or even an indictment, in the to school closings due to a lack of 
less and without any substantiation; case, but, for very obvious reasons, it funds while he lived alone in a 
the Sun-Times would never sell an­is a serious problem for both Cardinal million-dollar mansion on Chicago's 
other paper. Cody and the church. A subpoena Gold Coast. In fact, there were 
Cody is pointing the finger at the (which Cody refuses to answer) has rumors a few years ago that the 
Sun-Times, which is only reporting been issued by a federal grand jury, Vatican was encouraging Cody to 
the investigation. It is the govern­and it seems that each day new al­retire. And, strangely enough, there ment that is "accusing" him. He legations surface. has not been the massive outpouring 

should be mad at the government.The cardinal is accused, of divert­of sympathy and support that one 
And instead of trying to discredit the ing millions of dollars of church might have expected. The Vatican 
Sun-Times, one of the most respected funds to a lifelong friend and mem­and other prominent Catholics have 
papers in the country, he should bers of her family. The woman, been silent, while most Chicagoans answer the charges. 
Helen Dolan Wilson ofSt. Louis, has have adopted a wait-and-see attitude. 
Cody's personal behavior has been accumulated an estate worth from at And in light of the way Cardinal 
questionable during all this as well. least $350,000 (her figures) to pos­Cody has defended himself, this may 
He has stated, "When they cannot sibly over a million dollars (grand be a wise decision. It is this aspect of 
disunite the flock, they attack_t.!:_e jury and Sun-Times). She has owned ..r-.. ~~ -...........
,;:; ~ 
homes and businesses in Florida, has 
c

traveled widely around the world .. -.....___ .. (often in the company of Cardinal '~ / Cody) and has acquired an im­'( pressive stock portfolio. There's on­ly one problem according to federal investigators; she has never made more than $12,000 in any one year and has no other visible means of support. (Her highest paying job was with the archdiocese of Chicago as the diocesean office manager-a job which other church employees say she never came to. Cody says she worked at his residence.) 
There is some evidence against the cardinal, and it would be easy to jump to a conclusion and pronounce 
-· ,, IF W£ /<ltrEt" 11-l/S ~061 1\RDUND /)5' WILL i3c:1rU S~VE PACE 11 
the affair that disturbs me the most. shepherd." I just can't see why the
•tls Why does one of the highest ranking Sun-Times or the federal government 
officials of one of the most respected would want to discredit the Catholic institutions in the world have to church or Cardinal Cody. resort to bigotry, religious name­




Etlcyclical diagtloses modertl l 
Anyone who sees anti-Catholic con­Pope John Paul I I, in his new en­glamorous as the written word. 
calling, and diversionary tactics in spiracies today is living in the past.

cyclical, notes that technology Jump to a distant but parallel Garry Wills order to clear his good name? For all This kind of xenophobia only hurtscauses not only progress but disrup­event, the protests around Califor­the criticism, some of it justified, Catholics. It is an adoption of thetion. It is easy to dismiss a pope's nia's Diablo Canyon nuclear reactor. 
'd Cody has done a good job and been attitude Catholics
very that haveopinion as "medieval," as the past The people who look silly, on the 0 utn er an asset to both the church and the worked for years to eradicate. If the

fighting progress. But in this case the television screen, are the humans ancient office is just supporting com­who put their bodies in the path of --------iiiiii~~iiiiii~~ city of Chicago. But I am disap­cardinal wants to show how wrong 
pointed and almost disgusted at how the paper is, he should give detailed mon sense. The pope says tools progress. The tenders of the machine he chooses to defend himself. 
2 I /2 years have gone by. Even if it answers to the charges and prove Cardinal Cody has chosen to should not be placed before the are technicians who talk of all the 
could be cleaned up today, the them wrong. He should not en­money is not there. The utility com­courage Catholics to stop buying the human workers who wield them. But money that has gone into their mar­remain silent about any of the we all see a worship of the machine vel, of its advanced design, of the specific charges against him, at first
pany cannot pay for its own mess, so Sun-Times and start subscribing to

creeping over our civilization. dollars it will save if we just keep huge is the sum needed. It needs the archdiocesean paper. (Which has 
saying that the charges were ''tooI visited a university last year that feeding it dollars. 
vague to warrant response," then
government help, state and federal. accused the Sun-Times of harassment It needs help from the lobbyists who and tried to discredit it for the past had been given a sizable grant for the later saying that he would wait untilpurchase of research aids. When the 

''Attention goes where all charges are leveled before issuing year.)
want more reactors to be built. Near­a statement. The first reply soundshistory department was asked to 
ly $200 million have already been Cardinal Cody is one of the most spent on the non-existent cleanup. visible representatives of the church. 
draw up a list of desired research the money is, and like an evasive action, while theaids, it answered in one word: books. 
second is probably the result of legal

the mbney is in the Six hundred million more will be If he, at the first sign of any trouble, 
But that would not do. In the grant's needed to make it a reality. Until then tells the Catholics to start circling the 
advice.
terms, books are not a research aid. A 

machine, not in In the meantime, however. the
the wreckage is not safe. wagons against the heathen attack­machine that might help you read a 
archdiocese released a statement these machines, risking not only condemning the Sun-Times. The sum backlashes, and justifiably so; Codybook would qualify, but not the book anything unglamorous Yet we throw more money into ers, then there will be anti-Catholic 

itself. 

as the written word." total of the statement was that the
massive loss of funds but future loss is drawing lines that are not there. Sun-Times was an immoral tool ofNow, as it turns out, all the mem­
of lives. Three Mile Island was a All Christians should and do want the devil persecuting the good car­bers of that history department al­near miss. and we have had others. to see a man of God cleared of anyready knew how to read books. And Technology claims to have bottled dinal. The archdiocese also implied
Just one large release ofradioactivity innuendo and false charges. But themost of the other recommended all demons in the aptly named Devil that the Sun-Times reported the in­
from one of these monsters will make cardinal is not helping his cause by them all obsolete overnight. The hollering "they just don't like us Cat­"aids" were just as useless for them. Canyon. A spokesman for the reactor vestigation to strike back at the Cath­Rather than forfeit their part of the repeated on television the claim that olic church's stand on abortion and
odds. in terms of lives threatened and holics, so we got to stick together"

grant, they finally settled for a nuclear energy has a better safety financial loss. are all against us. every time he is criticized, and espe­
other social issues. "The Catholic

videotape machine -which is a record than any other form of energy Why do we go on? It is not merely cially at a time like this. He should
church has often taken stands in op­pleasant toy, but not as useful to his­-which is like saying that tightrope­position to those of the Sun-Times on
a matter !Jf the developers' greed. not seek to discredit the Sun-Times

torians as books. walking across Niagara Falls has a That would have no support but for and slander them in the same way he
moral issues."
We see in that episode the way an better safety record than walking What does this mean? Why would 
our submissiveness to our own tech­feels they have slandered him. Heemphasis on machinery trivializes wooden planks across puddles. More the Sun-Times want to (or even think
nology. We have to do it because we should most definitely not use his 
can do it. Because Ronald Reagan that it could) discredit the Catholic office to encourage religious bigotry our culture. The school's library spills have been taken off the planks. 

was. like many these days. hard but you only get one fall into pressed to maintain its files of Niagara. said the admission of limits to our church? This could constitute cor­and polarization. porate suicide. It's also one of the
power would be a surrender. Because The cardinal's favorite statementscholarly journals -not to mention Airports are full of paid servants of the money !lows to machines. and we reasons to think that there might be throughout all of this has been .. Inew books. The book companies. in the machine telling us that "nobody follow the money. Proclaiming our some substance to the claims. Think never thought this kind of persecu­turn, are pinched when purchases died at Three Mile Island.·· But it about it. The Sun-Times writes that
mastery. we become slaves-which tion could continue in this en­

cannot be made. Attention goes was a close thing. And Three Mile was the pope's point. lightened age. Well. your
Cody broke the law. then the allega­where the money is, and the money is Island is still not cleaned up. It is too tions are found to be totally ground-
Universal Press Svndicare Eminence. neither did I.
in the machine, not in anything as un-hot to get to its innards, still. though 


Editorial Board and Department Managers 
Editor·in·Chie.f.................. ..................... .John McGrath SMC Executi1•e Editor ...... Mary Agnes Carey
Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
Managing Editor ................ .....................Tom Jackman SMC .Veu•s Editor ....... . ...Cathy Domanico

The Observer is an independent newspaper published b\· the students of the 
Photo Editor... . ........... .John Macor
Executive Neu•s Editor .............................. Lynne Daley 

University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessanl \ 
Neu•s Editor .............................................Tim Vercellotti

reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported Business Manager......... ..Rich Coppola
Neu•s Editor ......................................................Kelli Flint

as accurately and as objectively as possible. Editorials represent the opin1on of a Controller......................... ......... ..... Joe Mulflur Senior Copy Edit9r ........................ Mary Fran Callahan 
majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, opinions. and lerrers are the Ylews Advertising .'~fanager ...................................~ .. Mark Ellis· Sports Editor ......................................... Michael Ortman
of their authors. Column space is available ro all members of the communi!\. and Production .Wanager.............................. Michael Monk Features Editor ................................ ... Anthony Walton Circulation Manager ........................Tom Maclennan
the free expression of varying opinions on campus. through lerrers. is encouraged 
.. 


~jb()~tScjEJ==~=='=·~~=S========~===================w=e=dn=e=sd=a=y=,s=e=pt=e=m=b=er=2=3=,=19=8=1===Pa=g=e:l7 
by The Ohsert'l'l' and The A.rrouated Preu 
The Notre Dame/Saint Mary's sailing Club 

acted as host for the Notre Dame Intercollegiate Regatta last weekend with a total of 13 universities competing in both A and B divisions. After eight races in both divisions during 2S-30 mile per hour winds on Saturday and three more races under less windy con­ditions in both divisions on Sunday, Ohio Wesleyan came in first with :vtiami of Ohio a distant second, 40 points behind the leaders. Notre Dame finished fifth out of 13. Next weekend, the Notre Dame race team will compete at :vtarquette, Annapolis and the Sloop Championships. -The Observer 
The NROTC Charity six-miler is scheduled for this Saturday at 10 a.m. Anyone can register for the event at the NROTC Building between 8 a.m. and 4:30 p.m. daily. Pre-registration is SS; 57 the day of the race. Proceeds from the race will be donated to local agencies for the handicapped. -The Observer 
Novice fencers are reminded they have a meeting scheduled for tomorrow evening at 7 p.m. in the fencing gym above Gate 4 of the ACC. -The Observer 
A roll call vote in the U.S. House of Representatives failed to pass a resolution expressing the sense of Congress that the South African Springboks rugby team should not play in the United States. The resolution was taken up under terms requiring passage by a two-thirds majority of the House members who were present and voting. It failed, 200-198. A "yes" vote is a vote in favor of the resolution. A "no" vote is a vote against the resolution. Voting "yes" were 169 Democrats and 31 Republicans. Voting "no" were 48 Democrats and 1SO Republicans. -AP 

Daoud ·(1959)/Keller (8042) v. Straub Houston 3. Atlanta 0 (6931 )/Swieciak (4633) C1nc1nnati 3. San D1ego 2 Perez (3643)/Middleton (6746) v. Demello Los Angeles 5. San Franc1sco 2 (1261)/Ciark (1062) Today'a Games O'Bremskey (2913)/Chadwick (no number) v. Ger­New York (lynch 4-3) at Chicago (Krukow 7-91 gen (3321 )/Hackett (6756) Pittsburgh (Rhoden 7-3) at Montreal (Sanderson 9­
Fall tennis tournaments are single elimination. Pairings will appear each Wednesday in The Ob­Chelskey (7289)/Meger (8015) v. Williams 6). n 
(1774)/Ford (1339) Ph1ladelph1a (Noles 1-2) at St. LOUIS (Martin 6-41. nserver. It is the responsibility of each part1c1pant to McG1nn (8176)/Tomkow,tz (7092) v. Huberty Atlanta (Mahler 5-6) at Houston (J Niekro 9-7). n

contact his or her opponent and set up a match 1n (8441)VJames (1391) Cincinnati (Pastore 3-7) at San Diego (W1se 3-7). n
each round. Results of matches must be turned in to Eichenlaub/Heming-bye Los Angeles (Reuss 9-3) at San Franc1sco (Gnff1n 8­the interhall office (C-2 ACC) before noon on the 8). n
following Tuesday. Failure to report results will mean Women's Grad-Faculty disqualification of both partiCipants. Results will only Sally Derengosk1 (277-7325) v. Ann Detsch (4465) be accepted if insurance forms are completed and on 
Susan Roberts-bye AMERICAN LEAGUEfile. Men's Grad-Faculty East

Jim Jenista (277-3306) v. Jack Jones (8827) Men's Open Singles Royce Kincaid (277-6952) v. Nickos Aperghis 
W L Pet. GB 
Detroit 26 16 619 Boston 24 t7 585 1.5 
(287-9341)Damian Marshall (1509) v. Dave Mountain (6428) 

Tom Wilkas (1066) v. Dav1d MacMillan (1629) Round-Robin Grad-Faculty Mixed Doubles Milwaukee 25 18 581 t.5
Mike Smith (8437) v. Robert Rodriguez (3281) Roberts/Phillips (282-1 029) v. 
Ba1t1more 21 19 525 4John Eichenlaub (8773) v. Jack EisenbeiS (1058) Aperghis/Derengoski (277-7325) x-NewYork 21 20 .512 4.5

Tom Yu (1761) v. Donald Zelazny (1761) Jones (8827)/Weeks (7385) v. Pashley Toronto 19 t9 .500 5
(6584)/Fre~rer (287-6738) Cleveland 20 22 476 6Fred Sharp (3252) v. Mike Breen (8960) 

Alex Szilvas (6931) v. Tom Bauer (1470) 

West Dan Dawson (8994) v. Kevin O'Brien (1767) Kansas City 23 18 .561

Pat Collins (1201) v. Tom Waring (1066) x-Oakland 20 t8 526 1.5
BASEBALL

M1ke Keane (1134) v. Tom Walcott (4627) M1nnesota 20 22 .476 3.5
Andy Smith (3443) v. Jeff Wolf (8900) Texas 18 21 .462 4Raoul Jackman (272-8454) v. Mark Murphy (3338) 
Second Hall Seattle 17 24 415 6Bill Kramer-bye 
NATIONAL LEAGUE Ch1cago t6 25 .390 7

Rob Ebert-bye 
East 
California t4 25 .359 8Jerry Walker-bye w L Pet. GB x-f1rs1 halt championMen's Singles Novice 

22 18 .550 Barry Fay (1028) v. Bob Gaffney (8685) 22 19 .537 .5 
St LOUIS 
Montreal Yesterday's Results 

Brendan Conroy (1865) v. Ted Dare (6756) Pat 2.5
New York 20 21 488 Oakland 3-4. Toronto 2·2 (1st game. 13 1nmngs) 

Toole (8609) v. Bill McGowen (7289) 3.5
18 21 .462 Vernon Marchal (7291) v. Greg Koch (233-2274) .425 5
Ch1cago Milwaukee 1 0. Boston 8 
x-Ph1ladelphia 17 23 Detroit 6. Baltimore 3 
Women's Singles .415 5.5
Pittsburgh 17 24 Cleveland 6. New York 4 Debi Tomkawitz (7092) v. Joanne Swieczak (4633) West Kansas City 2. Minnesota 1 Eileen Rakochy (6751) v. Louisa Demello (12611 27 14 .659

Houston Seattle 3. Texas 2 

Molly Walsh (8034) v. Kathy Jeltes (3808) 24 17 .585 3
Cinc1nnat1 Califorma t. Chicago 0 

Ann Mane Norris (1291) v. Julie Middleton (6746) 22 18 .550 4.5
San Francisco Today'a Games 

Linda Radler (2948) v. Lisa Hem1ng (2956) 22 19 537 5x-Los Angeles Milwaukee (Slaton 5-6) at Boston (Tanana 3-9). n Betsy Keh1as (4424) v. Linda Cleveland (4661) 20 20 500 6.5
Atlanta Detro1t (Petry 9-7) at Baltimore (D. Mart1nez 13-4), n Carla Cortes (8041) v. Laura Degnan (3773) 13 30 .302 15San D1ego Oakland (Keough t 0·9) at Toronto (Clancy 6·10). n Theresa Reilly (4208) v. Susan Pratt (no number) x-first half champion Cleveland (Denny 9-4) at New York (Aeuschel3·t ). n Sue Gordon-bye Minnesota (Redfern 6-8) at Kansas C1ty (leonard

Stasia Obremsky-bye 
Yesterday's Results 8·11 ). n Mixed Doubles 

Chicago 4. St. Louis 3 Seattle (Abbott 3-7) atTexas (Honeycutt 10-5). n Neu (1-734)/Cella (6735) v. Fay (1028)/Yurko 
Pittsburgh 5. New York 3 Chicago (Trout 8·6) at California (Witt 5·9). n (7051) Montreal B. Philadelphia 2 
The Observer will accept classifieds Monday through Friday, 10 a.m. to 4:30p.m. However, clas­sifieds to be run in the next issue must be received by 3 p.m. the business day prior to insertion. All clas­sifieds must be prepaid, either in person or through 
the mail. 




Classifieds 

NOTICES  -1  NEED EXTRA INCOME? DO YOU LIKE SALES? DO YOU HAVE YOUR OWN  TICKETS  I need 2 USC tix. student or GA. money is no obtecl. Call Bndget 41-5153.  DESPAAATELY NEED MSU TIX! CALL JULIE 289·6731.  D.C. CLUB MEMBERS -Sign-ups tor • the October Break Bus will be held on  
USED BOOK SHOP HOURS WED .. SAT. SUN. 9·7. CASPERSON. 1303 BUCHANAN AD. NILES. NEED AIDE TO HOUSTON TEX. FOR OCTOBER BREAK CALL CHRIS AT t678 ANYTIME. WILL SHARE USUAL ATTENTION!!! Any one Interested in organtzing an N D. SCUBA DIVING club please contact Rob at 289-5317. COLLEGE BOWL Orgamzallonal meeting THURSDAY at 7:00p.m.. CCE­ROOM200. ATTENTION PROSPECTIVE KNIGHTS Admission Degree at K of C Hall Sunday. Sept. 27 at t2:30 p.m. Coat and Tie requested  CAR? It so. you could become a sales­man selling microcomputers and related soft-ware programs in the Mich1ana area. Hours are flexible to tit your schedule Work when you have the time. Call Carl Larsson at 233-9922 lor more Informa­tion. TAX ACCOUNTANTS. ACCOUNTING MAJOASII Need extra ~ncom'e? Would you like to work a couple of hours a week and earn good money. Call Carl Larsson at 233-9922 tor more information. UNIVERSITY CLUB HAS OPENING FOR LUNCH DISHWASHER HOURS: 11 :30·2:30 MON.-FRI. HOURLY RATE. APPLY IN PERSON: 9 A M.-5 P M. NO PHONE CALLS. PLEASE WANTED: GA·s_. FOR ANY HOME GAMES. CALL P~L 8509.  Penn St. ticket wanted. please call Donna at 677t NEED 2-4 GA TIX FOR ALL HOME FOOTBALL GAMES. CALL ART AT 1593 HEY!!! I NEED GA TIX FOR ANY HOME GAME. PLEASE CALL DAN AT 288­6251 ANY TIME AFTER 6. I need 3 or 4 GA tickets for the Michigan State g_ame. Call1222 and ask tor Peter. PLEASE HELP!! Need 2 or 4 Penn St. GA·s. Will pay big bucks. x1t42 NEED U.S.C. STUDENT TIX -WILL PAY BUCKS!!! CALL JIM 6802.  Ill-DESPERATE-Ill Need 2tlx to see Irish trounce Trojans. Also double occupancy room. Oct. 23­24. II you have either/or: When you THINK you have your BEST pnce. call Bob Daley COLLECT. (212) 762-0242. I WILL NOT BE OUTBIDI SURF'S UP -If I can get t GA or Student l1cket tor USC game. For fun-1n-the-sun guy from FLA. Have a heart!l Call Pam 4-1 5236. I need 3 MSU stud. or GA tix. Need not be together. Mick 1809. Need U.S. C. tickets. 3 G.a.'s and 2 Stu­dents. Will pay well and/or trade tor Navy G.A.'s (if you like). Call Ron at 6261 Thanks.  MAKE A GIRL HAPPY! Need 2 GA t1x tor FSU and USC. Call Donna at 4410 SMC Desperately Needed! 2 Purdue GA's Will pay$$. Call Greg at 232·2578 after 6 00 p.m. NEED: t MSU stud. & 2 FSU GA's Will trade 2 MSU GAs. V1nce 1238 Have t Purdue GA Will trade for MSU GA or stud. Need other MSU tix pret stud. Call Sue 4495 I need MSU tix! As close tot 0 as I can get PRICE NO OBJECT. Call DOUG 8838 HELP' Need 4 MSU GA·s Call Jim at 8630 WANTED 2 MSU GA·s. call Nick 6708  September 24 from 7·9 p.m 1n LaFortune Ballroom. We will be back in time for the U.S.C game!! Aound·tnp ticket is around $65.00. Any questions? Clare 3714. C1au! Come sta1? Sono motto bene lncontro tu in aile Nazz ArriVIderla! NOTICE To anyone who was at a certain illegal party at a certain m1d~western umversity, last Saturday. we would greatly ap­preciate any donations that could be made to defer the unexpected h1gh cost of this party. THE200ClUB How do you spell party? SENECA. Thanks John and John for the ride and for  
LOST/FOUND  Need ride back to NO from MIAMI of Ohio. Sun 27th. Jenny 41-4507.  NEED 2 MSU GA TICKETS. WILL PAY TOP PRICE. CALL 287-2088 EVENINGS.  DESPERATELY NEED USC TIX. AM WILLING TO TRADE ROLLING STONE TIX TO DETROIT SHOW NOV.30 PREFER GAs. BUT MIGHT SETTLE  Wanted! 2 USC GA'S. Call John 7791 I NEED 4 GA TICKETS TO THE NAVY  the tun t1mes. We love ya now get outta here ya knuckleheads Love, the ··supremes ·  
LOST.  a  red  N.D.  notebook  in  North  DESPERATELY need FLST.TIX. ST or GA. call Steve 8655.  Need 4 MICH ST tix. Please call1827.  FOR STUDENT TIX. 1678.  CALL CHRIS AT  GAME. CALL PETER 1222  STEVE SPANO says· oust Larry"  
D1mng Hall E-F lines last Monday. Need  DESPERATELY  NEEDED'  4  GA's  to  Need  MSU  and  Ga  Tech  GA's  
badly, call Kevin at 1798.  I desperately need 4 GA TIXS for GEOR­ USC. Money is no obtectl W1ll outb1d any  NEED 2 MICH. ST TIX. CALL 8700.  desperately. Call Paul at 1222.  
Found: on Mon.  9114 between P.E.  &  GIA game. Will pay b1g $$. Call Anne 4t­5473  other offer. Call Rob at 8428.  NEED 2 ADJACENT PURDUE GAs. Call  Have 2 MSU tix & HOTEL RESERVA­ 
P,W  wnstwatch. halt band m1ssing  To  NEED TIX TO PSU GAME! WILL PAY  Phi11764.  TIONS. call Pat 8762  
Identify and claim. call 8058  BIG BUCKS! CALL DAN AT 8428  
I LOST A BLACK CONTACT CASE IN THE AREA OF THE ACC. PLEASE CALL  Desperately need ride to BUFFALO -ALFRED. N.Y. area th1s weekend or any weekend. PLEASE call Laura 41-4673.  2 GA FLORIDA STATE TIX NEEDED BADLY. MONEY NO OBJECT Bob 234­ WILL SELL SOUL FOR 2 NAVY GAS AND 2 STU. S AND 2 GA. TECH GAS AND 2 STUS. MARK 1164.  Glrlfrtend coming many miles. Need Michigan St. ticket. Stu or GA. Please call Rob at8673  
282·1546 AFTER 5 PM  04t8.  
Lost. Medallton wtth inscription on back If found please contact Dan at 234·8518 Reward  Need ride to CLEVELAND tor break Will share usual. PLEASE call Cathy 232­8301  NEED MSU TIX. Will pay$$$. Bill 8927. HELP! NEED GA TIX FOR MICHIGAN STATE GAME CALL MARIANNE 277­ NEED FLORIDA ST. TICKET CALL JOHN 1615. BIG BUCKS FOR USC OR FSU GA TIX. CALL MARK AT 1074.  PERSONALS  To Mary Beth & Eileen. Congratulahons for your capp1ng! Lots of luck. Jay  
Lost ­a two tone blue sweat Jdf'l(~ • ..:::all V1nce at 1 238 FOUND' sweatShirt on South Oua~. call N1ck 6708  FOR SALE"] FOR SALE  1099 NEED GA TIX TO ANY HOME FOOA· BALL GAME. CALL CATHY 277-2244. Have 2 USC and 2 MSU GA. Will trade tor  Need 2 GA tickets for Michigan State game Please! Call Cindy 2917 W1ll pay anything tor FLA ST tixs. Need 51 Call Jenny 41-4507.  Sac1al Concerns Film Senes BREAKER MORANT Annenberg Auditorium-Sept 25 & 26 7 & 9:30pm.-AdmiSSIOn 1.00 SOCIAL CONCERNS FILM SERIES - Red. we ave your little. brown, ugly mutt. My life's been threatened. Dad says he'll kill me if I don't get 3 Florida St tickets -If you can help call Wick at t 05 7  
FOUND: a Sliver necklace on Sunday. September 20. on tenn1s courts. Call Jeff at 8994  72 CHRYSLER NEWPORT 49000 MI. EXC. COND. $1000. SCOTT4204.  FSU tix. Call Ed 1208 I NEED 2 GA MICHIGAN STATE TIX!!  NEED TWO TICKETS TO ANY HOME GAME--STUDENT OR GA. WILL PAY  September t5-26 Social Concerns Film Series  
WILL PAY$$$. CALLJIM 4642.  YOUR PRICE. KATIE 8001  WAR WITHOUT WINNERS  
FOR RENT  FOR SALE: 1964 BUICK -$125 call 283-161t atter 10 PM. PLANTS PLANTS PLANTS  NEED I.Jsc :r,>< oNE sTuDENT AND TWO GAs. CALL CHRIS AT t678  STUDENT SEASON FOOTBALL nCK­ET FOR SALE-BEST OFFER. CALL CHUCK AT t479.  LaFortune L1ttle Theatre -Sept. 22. 23. & 24 t2:00 noon-FREE AdmiSSIOn  Tart d'amour .. my head still hurts! But how are you???? cazenova  
RENT TO OWN A COLOR TV OR STEREO. CALL SUN APPLIANCE 291­5112  Collegiate Plant Fa1r comes to NO LaFortune Ballroom 9 to 6 this Wednesday and Friday PLANTS PLANTS PLANTS  PLEASE!!! NEED 2 TICKETS (GA) FOR FSU AND GA TECH. WILL PAY BUCKS CALL JOE 8866  TWO GA FSU TICKETS MONEY NO OBJECT. CALL BOB 234-0418  Social Concerns Film Senes BREAKER MORANT Sept. 22. 23, 24-7 & 9:30p.m. Eng1neering Auditorium  Shakespeare knew how to tame a shrew, but no one will ever tame THE ZOO. Not at all!  
UGLY DUCKLING RENT-A-CAR from $8 95 a day and 8 cents a m1le. Phone 259-8459 tor reservations. NOTRE DAME APTS. 1/3 or 2/3 su1te sublease available. close to NO. call DAVE at 288-4t70 ANYTIME. RECENTLY AVAILABLE ONE AND THREE BEDROOM APTS. ONE BEDROOM HOUSE 234-2626 Student hous1ng. clean. sate. laundry.  STEREO AND LOFT: STEREO: Jul1ette phono/8-track & speakers: good condition :.,just cleaned & serv1ced. LOFT: Excellent matenal & constructiOn: fits best 1n rooms like Keenan & Stanford: can be taken apart. stored. and used aga1n follow1ng year If Interested. quest1ons. call 272·2578. 1974 PLYMOUTH DUSTER. slant six. au t tomatic. power steer. crwse. tape. Motor excellent cond11lon Call289·0123  Need 4 GA tickets lor any home game. Call Lynn at 8007. Will pay top$ tor NO-USC game tickets. Need 6 tickets. best 1ocat1on ava1labte. Please call collect (714) 835-6505 ask tor Tony Herenda or Judi Carlos. NEEDED!! 2 MICHIGAN STATE GA TIX. WILL PAY$$$. CALLJIM AT 4642 Badly needed 2 or 3 GA·s tor the M1ch1gan State game. Call Jim at 3562  Need 2-4 Purdue t1ckets. Call8700. I NEED FOUR MICH. ST TICKETS CALLJASPEAAT t744 PSU Tix needed many as poss1ble any Will help. CALL M1ke 1396. t866 NEED 2 GEORGIA TECH G A TIX CALL BILL 7289 Need 2 GA TIX USC. You name it I'll pay it. 226 Stanford 8654.  1.00 Adm1ssion H1 Sus1e. Ann. Jo, Angela. Ten and all other party-tardiersl!! Part-time tab tor AM. Lung Assoc. Satur· day hours. Must have car Call287-2321 ALL THE DRAFT BEER YOU CAN DRINK FOR ONLY $3 WEDNESDAY 9· 12 PM AT IRISH COUNTRY. 744 NOTRE DAME AVE CRYSTAL ROCKS  Janet. THIS is YOUR PERSONAL. s stop compla1n1ng Now that you know th REAL truth. maybe you would have been better off with Mr Stock1ng cap! How about that trenchcoat!?' DAE Have JOurnal. scrapbook & vanous pictures of your own & only mece " Wil· ling to negotiate terms lor their return Are you? K 125 RALLY UP HOOVERMOBILEAS!  
kitchen. rated supenor. $100 1nctudes all. 29t-t405 Male roomate(s) needed to share three bedroom house across from campus $t 00/month plus share of ut1ht1es Call  Two NO/So. Cal GA t1x for $200 602­978-7501 STEREO EOUIPMENT1 FANTASTIC DEALS ON TAPE DECKS.  DESPEAATELY NEED 2 STUDENT OR GA TIX FOR MSU WILL PAY MEGA BUCKS CALL KATHY 2126 Big bucks lor USC or FSU tlx. Call Mark at 1074.  Will Trade t FSU GA plus MUCH CASH tor 2 Navy GA's. Please call TOM 1865 Need as many GA tix as possible to ANY home game tor Ch1cago area Christan Brothers Will throw 1n bottle of their bes1  CAYSTAL ROCKS CRYSTAL ROCKS CRYSTAL ROCKS CRYSTAL ROCKS every Saturday n1ght at COUNTRY!  IRISH  Needed t sect1an PURDUE TIX 50 yd hne If not avail we take burgers. handouts, catapults & bulldozers. Thanx for the GAEATESTt1me! Love, Sue. Mary. Kahe, Missy  
8700  SPEAKERS.  AMPS.­ ALL  YOUR  Brandy. John t658.  
STEREO NEEDS AT PRICES WITH THE  Need 4 MSU and 4 USC GA tix  John  And the restless shade of Moose Control  
WANTED  STUDENT BUDGET IN MIND' CALLJ.B AT 8228 AND FIND OUT HOW INEX· PENSIVE HIGH-QUALITY COM­PONENTS CAN BE'  t001 Need 2 GA MSU tix Call Susan 41-4361  Money no object  Need tix for October 3 Mich St. game Call Beth. 6945 Need Purdue GAs. Chris 1714.  IRISH COUNTRY IRISH COUNTRY IRISH COUNTRY gives you the best beer bargain in town!  continues to wander He has heard those who would call hiS name. and he IS touched by thM yearn1ng And he 1s sore distressed that a shade IS but a dark  ..  
Need 3 GA TIXS to FLORIDA STATE game. BIG$$$ PLEASE call Paula 232­830t  Stereo record player -like speakers. $45. Call 233-4908.  new.  2  Desperately need 2 USC GA tix. Money no obtect. Call Maria 41-5t91.  Purdue Ticket 10:00p.m.  FOR  SALE 3856.  after  $3 all the draft you can dnnk every Wed· nesday from 9-12 p.m.  reflection of what m1ght have been still he wanders  And  

The Observer Wednesday, September 23, 1981 -page 8 

Saint Mary's volleyball team looked impressive in yesterday's openeer as the Belles defeated Grace College in straight sets. See story page 9. (photo by Tim M cKeogh) 
SEE THE IlliSR 
·~.


AT PUllDUE GO REllTZ FllOM $15.99 A DAY 
-'IIese Economy Fares are Touring Rates, subject to 


change without notice and non-discountable.· There are no minimum 
day and advance reservation requirements, but 
restrictions on when and where cars must be returned. Gas is not 
included. Call Hertz for details. ~ 
=a 
234-3712 at Airport 

WHERE WINNERS RENT.
232-5871 Downtown 
HERTZ RENTS FORDS AND OTHER FINE CARS 
................................................................................................................................ 

. } 
Al 
comes +a 
Laforfune Bafl room 9am -bpm -·-~, Th.is \JednesdaY. and Thursday 

141))~ SELECTlON LOW PRlCE:S 



HEALTHY PLANTS 
................................................................................................................................ 

With Guldahl 
Trevino enters Hall of Fame 
PINEHURST, N.C. (AP) -Lee Trevino, whose rags to riches saga has become an integral part of the lore and legend of the game, and veteran pro Ralph Guldahl were in­ducted into the World Golf Hall of Fame yesterday. 
Guldahl, who won the Masters and two U.S. Opens in the late 1930s, was selected from the pre·modern era by the Golf Writers Association of America. He and Trevino pushed to 40 the number of men and women enshrined at that modern Hall of Fame in the Carolina sandhill country. 
"It's a great honor, one I'm very proud of," said · Trevino, 41, an outgoing man whose non-stop chat­ter, bottomless store of one-liners, and enormous talent made him one ofthe most popular men ever to play the game. 
Strangely enough, however, he 
had  to  wait  through  four  ballots  
before  receiving  the  necessary  
votes.  

"It doesn't bother me at all," Trevino said. "There were a lot -of guys who deserved to get in ahead of me. Besides, I don't think a player should go -into the Hall of Fame while he's still active. I think they ought to wait until you're retired." 
And Trevino is far from retired. 
He was unbeaten in four matches last week as a key member of the American Ryder Cup team, and ac· hieved a career-long ambition ear­lier this season with a victory in the Tournament of Champions. Last season, at age 40, he won the Vardon Trophy, for the fifth time, with the lowest stroke average in 30 years. 
A former Marine, a one-time golf hustler and assistant pro at a desert driving range. Trevino was a late­starter on the pro tour. joining the circuit after a sixth-place finish in 
continuedfrom page 12 
Michigan, the Irish amassed 11 first downs under Koegel, just one under Kiel. 
Considering that Koegel, so far, has accumulated considerably more playing time than has Kiel, and the Irish have thrown much more with Koegel in the lineup, here are their two-game totals: Koegel has thrown 29 passes, completed 16 for 240 yards with two touchdowns and one interception. Kiel is three-of·eight for 29 yards, two interceptions and one touchdown. 
It didn't take long for people to 
start suggesting that ~ decision be made to go with one quarterback or the other. And yesterda '' Faust all 

r ATTENTION ALL BOSTON "" OLUB MEMBERS!!! 
Important meeting this Thursday, 9124 at 7:00 PM in LaFortune Little Theater (first no or) We'll discuss bus, tailgaters, and other events 
\.. PLEASE COME! ..J 

For Information About Other Centers In More Than 85 US Cities & Abroad Outside NY State CALL TOLL FREE: 800-223·1782 





dukE 
University 

the 1967 U.S. Open. 
He won the American national championship the following year and has been a major factor in the game ever since, winning at least once a year in all succeeding years. 

Trevino repeated as British Open 
champion in 1972 and won the PGA 
in 1974. He has 26 American tour 
titles, a dozen foreign crowns and 
more than S2.5 million in career ear­
nings. 
...Struggle 

but gave in. "We still have two start­ing quarterbacks, but we're going to leave Koegel in as long as he has the hot hand," he announced. "One of them (apparently Kiel) came up to me during the game and asked me to 
leave the other (apparently Koegel) in because the offense was moving with that one in there." 
The juggling continued for two weeks until it appeared that the jug­gler lost his balance. But it seems that both Kiel and Koegel can con­tinue to live in relative happiness. Af­ter all, Koegel -at long last -had his fair shot and is a starter. Kiel, on the other hand, did prove himself all 
over again and apparently came oh 
so close to retaining his starting as­

signment. Their talents left Faust 
with a pleasant problem. He in turn, 
has left them with an equitable but 
potentially precarious solution. 
... Itetns 
continuedfrom page 12 
The Irish thus have the most wins per season of any school with a 6. 7 average. 

TUBE TALK -ABC executives have scrapped the idea of televising the Penn State-Nebraska game this weekend in lieu ofBoston College at North Carolina. Florida at Mississip· pi State, San Jose State at California and Oregon State at Minnesota. All of these regional offerings will be followed by the nationally-beamed USC-Oklahoma battle pitting the na· tion's two top-ranked teams at 4 p.m. 
This schedule change thus fuels the rumor mills that ABC will forsake the classic Ohio State­Michigan battle in order to televise the Notre Dame-Penn State and Oklahama·Nebraska games on November 21. In fact, a local Columbus, Ohio, television station already has purchased the local TV rights for a live telecast ofthat inter· state rivalry at a 525,000 pricetag. 

A representative of the Institute of Policy Sciences will be on campus 
Wednesday, October 14, 1981, to discuss the Duke master's program in Public PoJjcy Studies. Interested students may obtain further information by contacting the Placement Office 

,---------------------------------------------------------­
The Observer -Sports Wednesday, September 23, 1981 -page 9 
'Team effort' 

Belles trounce Grace College 
By MARY SIEGER 
Sports Writer 
The Saint Man-'s volleyball team opened its season last night against Grace College. The Belles had an outstanding evening. winning three straight games 1 'j. I 2, I 'j.2 and !""­
...Koegel 

continuedfrom fJaxe 12 
Behind only 7-0 early in the third quarter, Faust called for a halfback option. Tony Hunter's pass to Dean .\tasztak was intercepted. setting up the \X'olverines' next score. 
"I don't know if I waited long t·nough before calling something like that," he said. "But on the other hand, if that play had gone, it would have been the grt·atest genius thing in eollegt· football." Faust chuckled. 
Tht· whole problem against Michi­gan, said the Irish coach, was momentum and intensity. "Mkhigan took advantage of their momentum. and we didn't make any momentum -that's the real reason we lost." Faust explained. 
"Football's a great game of momentum," he added. "And you've got to create your own ifyou want to be an outstanding team. They came out and played intense football. We were just waiting for something to happen. We're working very hard this week to make up for our lack of intensity." 
Faust has been tough on his 
players in practice, but he's had a 
rough going himselfsinn: Saturda}'. 
"It'~ been a long, tough week," he admitll"d. "A loss sure humbles you t)Uickly. I hope il makt·s us a better staff and a better team. But I hope it doesn't happen again. I don't need to be humbled anymore." 
VOTE FORYOUR FAVORITE LITE BEER CELEBRITY 1GRAND PRIZE: An expense paid trip for two to the 1982 Lite Alumni Reunion. Attend the Lite Alumni Banquet and the filming of the 1982 Lite Reunion TV commercial. 6 FIRST PRIZES: Magnavox Videotape player/recorder with camera. 20 SECOND PRIZES: Eight New York strip steaks and eight Lite Goblets. 1,000 THIRD PRIZES: Lite Sports Visor. .....~.·.--.____________, No purchase necessary. Here's how to enter: 1 Use the entry blank provided or p1ck up an entry form at a part1C1pat1ng Lite Beer reta11er Hand pnnt your name and Lite Popularity Poll Sweepstakes Official Entry Form address We would appreciate your 1nd1cat1ng on your entry the na~e at Y<;JUT favortle L1te Beer celebnty Please pnnt clearly~~tll~~~~~t.::'K~~a;d0a~d~~s~~~8e~vcl~~e ~~:~~·~~~a~ 8~~g' 9\o'Z I #10 envelope(IO LITE POPULARITY 3 All entnes must be rece1ved by October 9. 1981 Enter as often as you WISh but each entry must be mailed separately Wrnners w1l1 be determ1ned.m a Random Draw1ng from among all entnes rece1ved under the superVISIOn of the D L BLAIR Name CORPORATION an Independent JUdging organ1ZBI1on whose deCISIOns are final on all matters relat1ng to th1s offer 4 Th1s sweepstakes IS open to res1dents of the Unrted States who are ollegal dnnk1ng age 111 their state at the t1me of entry Address;______________________ The Miller Brew1ng Co Phtllp Moms Inc then dtstnbutors affiliates. subs1d1arres advert1s1ng and promot1on agenc1eS retail alcoholiC beverage licensees and the employees and fam111es of each ARE NOT ELIGIBLE ThiS sweepstakes IS vord City ______State____Zip___Phone______ 1n the States of M1ssour1 and OhiO and wherever proh1b1ted by law Ltm1t one pnze per family Taxes on prrzes are the sole responstbllily of pnze w1nners AI! Federal State and local laws and regulat1ons apply The odds of w1nmng a pnze depend My favorite Lite Beer Celebrity upon the n-umber of entnes rece1ved The est1mated value of the pr1zes offered are as follows t Grand Prtze. An expense pa1d tnp lor two to the 1982 L1te Alumni Reun1on At1end the L1te Alumn1 Banquet and the f1lm1ng 6F1rst pr,zes of the t982 L1te Reun1on TV commerc1al 6 F1rst Pnzes Magnavox Videotape player recorder w1th camera. 20 Second ~~~a~ea1~a~6 ~nie~~~~~~~a~~~nu~~~~;eg~se MagnavoxV1deotape Pnzes E1ght New York stnp steaks and e1ght L1te Goblets 1 000 Th1rd Pnzes L!te Sports V1sor No purchase playerrer.orderMarlthiS?.rilrvto necessary The exact value of the Grand Pr1ze w1ll depend upon the wtnner's state of res1dence and localiOn of the L1te w1thcameraL1!13 PopUlarity Poll SweepstakesAlumni Banquet For a liSt of maJor pr1ze w1nners. send a SEPARATE self·addressed. stamped envelope to Ll"l E 20 Second PftzesPO Box 9618 POPULARITY POLL SWEEPSTAKES WINNERS LIST PO BOX 6533 BLAIR NEBRASKA 68009 [IIJI"l! New York srnp steaksf!la1r Nebraska 68009 and e1ght Lttc Goblets5 The Grand Pnze tno for two (2) 1ncludes round trrp a1riare to and from wmners nearest maJOr a1rport four f4) n1ghts hotel 1.000 Th1rd Pr1ze~accommodations and meals The Grand Prrze travelers must be of legal dnnk1ng age 1n their state of res1dence and the 1Grand Prtze L1te SporiS VISOr state wherf" the L1te Alumnr Banquet will take place The Grand Prrze w1nner must aqre·e to depart to· the localiOn of the L1te A11 expensr oa1d tr1p lor two to thp Nc Purchase NecesSMV Alumm Banquet and r~turn on dates soec1f1ed by the Miller Brew1ng Company The ti-1p also tncludes attend1ng the f1lm1ng 1982 L!teAiumn1 Reun1on At1entl !hr. LlteAiumntBanauetandthrof tne 1982 Reun1on commerc1al Pnze w1nners wrll be obligated to s1gn and return a Release of L1ab11tty and an Aff1davtt of EI1Qiblllty w1th1n th1rty 130) days of notification In the event of noncompliance w1th1n lhts t1me penod an alternative w1nner w1ll be selectP.d Any or1ze returnee to the soonsor or to 1he 0 l BLAIR CORPORATION as undelrverable wr/1 /Je awarded to alTernative wtnnPr5> No subst1tuhon ol pnzes 1s oet m1t!ed ,,_ 1981 Miller Brewing Co., Milwaukee. Wis.  


ON KODAK PAPER 
20 & 24 EXPOSURE SIZE 110-126-135MM $2.95 POSTPAID 
36 EXPOSURE 135MM-$4.95 POSTPAID 
I,----~ 
.,~,-i.
I
:We use 
Kodak paper-. 
fora 9ood look. 
--:---) 

Offer Ends Sept. 30, 1981 Mail Film, Ad With Check Or Money Order To: 
I G,alloway Photo I 
1 1 1 P.O. Box 1457 f Terre Haute, IN 47808 
1 1
, :,. 1,_,_.. "-~-... , ,-c.....-. ~"F·""·.~ --~···<"~•,.1 
1'5. 

The score stayed quite dose throughout the first game as the Belles never had a strong lead at anv time. In the closing moments of the game the Belles pulled ahead to win. 
Among the outstanding players during the game included freshman 
Ann Boutton. sophomore Loret ·Haney and seniors Terri Walters and Mary Beth Hosinski. "Although these girls played quite well. the vic­tory was an entire team effort." said Head Coach Erin :vlurphv. ''I'm ven· proud ofthe entire team~" . 
Thi1o season. the voleyball team will have rotating co-captains. This week's rotating co-captain was Haney. "She provided the team with enthusiasm anti gave everyone direction on the court," said Murphy. ''I'm pleased with her per­formance this week." 
The team's next home game is Saturday at 9 a.m. when the Saint Mary's Invitational Tournament begins. The Belles will play Notre Dame's along with five other teams from the area. 
The Belles also will play the Korean Junior National Women's Team on Sunday starting at "':30 p.m. The Korean team is the defending Junior World Champion. Tickets for the game will be sold in advance and at the door. 


Lee Tret1i11o ( abm•e) u•as inducted along 1l'itb 11eteran pro Ralph Guldahl into the World GolfHall ofFameyesterday~ See story• page 
8. (AP Photo) 
-
-

------------------------------------· The Observer Wednesday, September 23, 1981 -page 10 
-
Wisconsin's'Matt Vander Boom (39) picks offa Michigan pass intefzded for Craig Dunaway (88) with two seconds to go in the Badgers' stunning season-opening upset of the Wolverines. Did Michigan blowouts the previousfouryears inspire Wisconsin? See Chris Needles' column at right. ( APPhoto) 
·­



Thurs. Sept. 24, 1981 8:00PM Call 284-417 6 for tickets 
O'Laughlin Auditorium Twenty·fifth AnnivcrS<lry Program 

Saint Mary's College Prese;1ts 



Do blowouts lead to upsets? 
' 

Remember back, if you will, to the happier times ofa 
······••}})/})-.•· ....

·.·-­
week ago Saturday, when Notre Dame won and eve1)•body else lost. 
Chris Needles 
Back when the word "upset" didn't describe Irish fans' stomachs as they suffered through the Michigan Sports Writer defeat. 
Let's set the scene: NO was comfortably ahead of the nation's worst-coached team, LSU, so the crowd's atten­tion turned to the scores ofother games ofinterest. college football team of the entire decade of the 60's, 

Up in the press box, the public address announcer and had just come offthe famous 10-10 tie against :Yiich­was having a ball preaching the good news to the igan State. which was a close second. crowd: In response to the week-long criticism of "burying 
"Final score: Iowa IO, Nebraska 7!!!" their heads in the sand" in the final two minutes against A loud roar... the Spartans, the Irish, on the following Saturday, totally "Final score: Wisconsin 21, Michigan 14!!!" annihilated USC in Los Angeles , 51-0. It was a classic Pandemonium. case of "pouring it on," a tactic that Parseghian was Later on, as Irish fans were savoring Gerry Faust's first quite famous, or infamous, for. 
step to immortality, the news came of Alabama's stun­Against the Trojans, the Irish built up acommanding ning 24-21 loss to the Skinny Necks ofGeorgia Tech. 31-0 halftime lead. But in the second half, Ara kept in 
By last Sunday morning, most fans were probably too the first string, all the way up until there were only hung over to survey the damage of last Saturday's seven minutes left in the game. In fact, Notre Dame was carnage of collegiate superpowers. But further ex­still passing the ball with a 44-0 lead. amination revealed what no doubt motivated these Needle~s to say, USC was PO'd. And it didn't take the various underdogs to achieve their long-sought glory: Trojans long to gain their sweet revenge. either. The 
Revenge. following October, they marched into South Bend, and 
In 1980, Nebraska walloped Iowa, 57-0, in a non­marched out with a 24-7 upset. and of course the last contest played in Lincoln. Hawkeye football officials laugh. And a heated rivalry was born. were so embarrassed that they toyed with the idea or' 
Let the record show that, since 1966, Notre Dame's moving this year's rematch to Tokyo in December. That 
record against USC is a dismal 2-10-2. 
way, in case there was to be a repeat performance. at Parseghian ran up the score quite often. as witnessed least the score wouldn't reach the States for a few days, by the various results of his 11-year tenure as Irish and by that time nobody would care anyway. 
coach -scores like 6-i-0 over Duke. 62-3 over ArmyBut. fortunately, the Iowa top brass kept the game in and 69-13 over Pitt, to name a few. 
Iowa City, and a record crowd of over 60,000 hog cal­But now. it seems, the Irish have learned their lesson. 
lers showed up, yelling vociferously for revenge. An in-• Ever since 1977, which featured the 69-14 obliteration spired Hawkeye defense artswered the bellows, of Georgia Tech, Notre Dame teams have not scored 
thwarting numerous Cornhusker fourth quarter drives, more than 40 points in any single game. although they
and Iowa had its upset... and its revenge. 
have had ample opportunity to do so. An example that 
:\1eanwhile, in :VIadison, Badger fans weren't so much comes to mind is the 1979 Air Force game, a contest the seeking revenge as they were praying for· at least a point Irish led 24-0 at the half But Dan Devine, a man with a against then top-ranked Michigan. In the last four years, heart, sat out most ofhis starters in the second half. and since 1977, the Wolverines had outscored lowly ~'is­the Irish still won handily, 38-1 3. 
consin, 176-0. But this year. there was hope... ·· 
Of ~ourse. though, Devine could not escape Notre 
Although nearly every pre-season prognostication Dame without paying for the '77 wreck of Georgiatabbed ,\1ichigan as the nation's No. 1 team. the \X'ol­Tech. In 1978, the Irish were given the famous "t1sh and 
verines ~:haracteristically have had troublt: getting un­
ice" treatment from tire Tech fans in Atlanta. In 1979. 
tracked in their season opener. Witness last season. 
Tech lost again to the Irish, 21-13. but not before put­when :\1ichigan opened with a less-than-resounding 17­ting a few gray hairs on Devine's head. Finally, in 1980. 
1 0 victory at home over Nortbu•estern. 
Tech got its revenge with the 3-3 tie at Grant Field. 
A week ago Saturday, the Badgers took advantage ofa One can gather from Gerry Faust's first game that he lax, overconfident Michigan squad with an inept quar­is not about to make any team angry at him or Notre terback, to gain their revenge that was five years in the Dame -witn<:ss his use of 6'5 players, including five making. 
different quarterbacks, in last Saturday's win over LSU,The moral of these scenarios' Having a killer instinct which could have been much worse than 27-9. Faust 
is one thing; totally mutilating the opponent is another. 
isn't dumb, for he knows that in 1984, his team must goAnd chances are, those incidents of "pouring it on," as down to Baton Rouge. Why add to the burden, right?
coaches like to put it, will come back to haunt the guilty So it seems the Irish have mellowed a bit. and it's 
party somewhere down the road. 

highly unlikely that a revenge-motivated upset will oc­It happened last Saturday. Twice. 
cur against them in the near future. Hut. other teams Not surprisingly, Notre Dame has been the victim of will still in~ist on embarrassing their opponents in such revenge in the past. Ever wonder how the NO­hopes ofimpressing the pollsters with inflated scores. 
Southern Cal rivalry ever became so heated' Back in Which way is best, you ask' 1966, Ara Parseghian had what many felt was the best Only time will tell. 


i--ruwR-cifY-RECoRDs--,.,••••••••~ 
I Northern Indiana's Largest Selection of Albums & Tapes. IiC Bur. ~ 
11

1 Why pay more any place else? I it' 'J' ~ 
I $l OO OFF'any regula_r_~ecord or tape with ad. I~ ~ 
I L1m1t 1 per person 1~ OBSERVER ~
I • • Expires Oct.lO ,1981 I iC ~ I 50970 US 31 North eOpen till 10 every night I iC _ __ ~ 13 miles N~rth of Campus • ND/SMC checks cashed 1iC Classzifieds ~ 
l
next to AI s Supermarket up to $20 over 1~ ~ purchase amount ~
I~ 
277-4242 eRecord Crates available ~w w w w w w w w w
L

--------------------------•~TTTTTTTTT' 
ANNOUNCING ... 
Travel Services Now on the Campus of St. Mary's College 
• 
Computerized Airline Reservations 

• 
Amtrak Tickets 

• 
Bus/Limo Tickets to Chicago 

• 
Tours and Cruises 

• 
Group Travel Services 


(219) 284-5606 
~source
+St. Mary's 



-.Travel 
LeMans Hall--Lower Level 
Notre Dame Travel Office Located in Badin Hall (219) 236-2374 
The Observer-=-= 
Molarity 
~FIP:Y CoAcH, I t:?EHG"HBER /IJ()LJ-f/DP, 5HVF"FL-EO 5HUFF", SIEP,
I 
l3AJ...L-CHAMI I HOP 6HUFFL£, s-n=:P,5rt:P.. , · 



The Daily Crossword 

Michael Molinelli 
OV.SIIv1YWC.K, r 6£/ 
O.k. 1 Now C:£-r 

6TVc.J< WlrH A HALFBA.C-K OUT TJ{E;R£ ANP DO rrl 
WJfD DD£6N1T KNDW t1 Po6i PATTERN f=R{)HA 
Garry Trudeau 

Jeb Cashin 
YW'R£ IILOT 5110trr£R 71/ll/.1 I WOULO "Vt 
THOI/~HT. 


Campus 
•9:30 
a.m. -art dept. exhibits, indiana fire ceramic show. moreau gallery, sponsored by art dept. 

•1 
0:30 p.m. -mass. fasters' mass. celebrant fr. theodore hesburgh. grotto. 

•7:00 
p.m. -tournament. speed chess tourna­ment. Iafortune center. 


Television Tonight 
7:00p.m.  16  R<·:tl Peopk Special  
22  :\lovil". ""ll:tywir<···  
28  <;re:llt"SI Ameril"an IIem  
34  (;rl":ll l'er!imnanet"s. Danny K:t)"l"  
with New York Philharmonil"  
46  Messa!(<" li>r thl" IIour  
7:30p.m.  46  Oral Rohnts  
8:00p.m.  46  I.L"ster Sumrall Tl":tl"hing Snil"s  
8:30p.m.  16  An Am.:ric:m AdventurL"-The Rock­ 
l"l Pilms  
46  The lknl"wnl ,\1ind  
9:00p.m.  28  Dynasty  
46  Tod;~y with l..:st.:r Sumrall  
9:30p.m.  34  Th<.: Oldt"sl :\l;~n in thl" S.::1  
10:00 p.m.  16  N.:wsCt"lll<.:r I(,  
22  22 l'y<·witn<.:ss N<·ws  
28  Nl"WSW;I!Ch 2H  
34  Tlw Dick Cav.:ll Show  
46  <:hrisl is !Ill" Answer  
10:30p.m.  16  Toni!(hl Show  
22  \X"KRI' & Fe:uurl" Movie  
28  ABC News Ni!(htlin<·  
34  Captioned ABC News  
46  ,\1ichi:111:1 Today  
11:00 p.m.  28  Love Boat  
46  Praise th<· Lord  
11:30 p.m.  16  Tomorro\\' Coast to Coast  

Today in History 
Today's highlight in history: 
On September 2.~. 197H, President Anwar Sadat 
returned to a hero's welcome in Egypt aficr the 
Camp David summit with Israeli Prime Minister 
.\llenadll"lll Begin. 

On this date: in I H 1""'. Spain signed a treaty with Britain to end slave trade. 
In ll)S6. Britain and France suhmittnl thl· Sm:z Canal dispute to the li.N. Security Council. 
In 1972. nearly a dccadt· of martial law began in the Philippines under President Ferdinand Marcos. 
In 1975. !(mnl"f Argentine dictator Juan Peron was returned to power in a presidential election. 
Ten }Tars ago: Supreme Court JusticeJohn Har­lan resigned aftl"f 16 years on the court. 
Five years ago: President (;erald Ford ami his lkrnocralic challenger, Jimmy Caner. mel in a nationally-broadcast debate. 
One year ago: the United Nations Security Coun­cil appealnl for an immediate end to the tlghting between Iran and Iraq, saying it posed a "grave threat'" to world peace. -AP. 
ACROSS 
Actual 5 Russian rulers 10 Neighbor 
of N. Car. 14 Until 15 Namesakes 
of singer 
Horne 16 Region 17 lnferen· 
tially 20 Japanese 
currency 21 Attempts 22 Music drama 23 Undivided 
whole 24 Beverage 


26 Texas shrine 27 Ancient language 28 Ike's opponent 29 New Guinea port 
30 Synthetic fabric 31 National 
bird of US 35 Pads 37 To shelter 38 "-Girls" 39 Rara­41 Snapshot 44 Fine strand 45 Superfluous 46 Complete 47 Come into 
view 50 Skidded 51 Baseball 
team 52 Story starter 53 Glacial ridges. 
54 Western school letters 
55 Indonesian 
island 56 Ripener 57 Pool 59 Govt. agcy. 60 Chart 
25 Behave in a disciplined way 
32 Wings 33 Platform 34 Sweet 
potato 36 Darn! 37 Mel or 
Woody 39 Seaweed 40 2001 41 Entreaty 42 Electrical 
unit 
43 Confined to a specta· tor's role 
48 Garden item 49 Slaughter 

·------------------------------------­
Your STUDENT UNION  presents  
RALPH NADER  
I  
I I  ON  
I I  Corporate Power in America  
I I  The Working of the Economic Governments  
I  Monday, September 28  8:00 pm  
Library Auditorium  Reception following  

-
50 Short drink 53 "Take me. 
-the ..." 55 Crowd 58 Football 
item 61 Peruvian 62 Heat: Lat. 63 State 64 Legal paper 65 Mourning 
band 66 Curtail 
DOWN 
1 Dee 
2 Sword 
3 Envelope 
abbr. 
4 Ignoble 
5 Man of the 
cloth 
6 Summit 
7 Bet 
8 Cheers 
9 Compass pt. 10 Formosa 
city 11 Sea bird 12 --do-well 13 Space 
acronym 18 Lab burner 19 Sprawls 23 Small 
guitars 24 Related 25 Ardent 


Wednesday, September 23, 1981 -page 12 
At quarterback 

Koegel to start Saturday . • • 
By KELLY SULLIVAN 
Sports Writer 

Gerry Faust doesn't like to lose, 
but the Notre Dame coach thinks 
last Saturday's defeat may have been 
a blessing in disguise. 

"I hate losing, but it might have been the best thing that could have happened," he admitted at his Tues­day press conference. "It got me back on the right track. I've always harped on the little things in practice, but I got away from it last week. That won't happen again, I'll clue you." 
"I'm looking at every thing they do now," he continued, "and if they do something wrong, they're going to hear about it, believe me." 

But Faust still shoulders most of the blame after the 25-7 loss. "A coach should start evaluating him­self before he evaluates the team," he explained. "I never second-guess myself when we win, but I do when we get beat." 
He's had second thoughts on how the quarterback situation has been handled. Blair Kiel started the LSU game, drove the Irish to two con­secutive touchdowns, but then was pulled to give Tim Koegel a chance to play. Koegel, who started against Michigan, moved the offense early, . but, as planned, left the field after two possessions because it was Kiel's turn to call signals. 
"We've still got two first string quarterbacks," confirmed Faust. "But we're going to start Tim Koegel, and we're going to leave him in if he's got a hot hand. Both Tim and Blair have agreed that if one is moving the offense down the field, he should stay in." 
That shouldn't overload the 
pressure on either one, according to their coach. "There's going to be pressure on them anyhow," he ex­plained, "and this way we can try and get some continuity going. We're not going to take a kid out if he makes a few mistakes, either, but if he's clearly not moving the team after three or four drives, we'll make a change. Blair and Timmy are team oriented -they want to do it that way." 
And Faust has learned something about his play calling from Satur­day's contest, too. "Maybe I should have been more patient," he confessed. "We were just grab bag­ging in the third and fourth quarter, just trying to get something to go. But I realize now there's a lot more time in a college game than in high school. In a tight situation, you should hold in there and wait for them to make the mistake." 
See KOEGEL, page 9 

• • . after six-month struggle 
By MICHAEL ORTMAN 
Sports Editor 

When Gerry Faust arrived from Cincinnati, he announced that the incumbent Blair Kiel would begin · spring drills as his number one man, based on the previous season. And 
Iri:;h 'greatest ofall time' 
BOILER BITS-When Notre Dame heads for West Lafayette this weekend, it will mark the 53rd meeting between the Irish and the Boilermakers in a series which started back in 1896 and has been contested an­nually since 1946. Notre Dame enjoys a 32-18-2 ad­vantage in the all-time series, winning five of the last six and nine ofthe last 11 battles with the Boilers. 
Last year, the Irish dealt Purdue a 31-10 nationally televised defeat on September 6, the earliest opening game for either team ever. The Mark Herrmann-less Boilermakers could not overcome a 17-0 Irish lead ear­ly in the second quarter. Nevertheless, only Southern Cal has more all-time wins against the Irish ( 21) than Purdue. 
A 16-13 victim of Minnesota last week, Purdue marks the third straight Irish foe who has lost the week before its game with Notre Dame. 
IT ONLY HAPPENS ONCE -Those who like to bet with the odds may put a lot of money on the Irish this week. Along with the fact that the Michigan game was Gerry Faust's first coaching loss in 34 games, the last time that a Faust-coached team suffered two straight defeats was way back in 1967 when Faust's Moeller 
Crusaders lost back-to-back games to league foes Cin­cinnati Elder and Roger Bacon. In fact, Faust has lost two straight games only twice during his entire coach­ing career. 
ROAD TRIP -Notre Dame has a 16-8-2 record playing on the Purdue campus and an l 1-6 ledger in Ross-Ade s~adium. A 28-22 loss in 1979 snapped a four­game Irish' winning streak at Purdue. Tim Koegel started that game for the injured Rusty Lisch, his only
... 
Notre Dame start other than last week's game at Michi­gan. 
WON'T YOU STAY HOME SHILLELAGH -Ever since 1957, the winner of the annual Notre Dame­Purdue game earns the shillelagh. Donated by the late 
joe McLaughlin, a merchant seaman and Irish fan who brought the shillelagh from Ireland, the club is decorated with 13 miniature gold footballs denoting Irish wins and l 1 crediting Purdue victories during its 24-year history. 
PRACTICE MAKES PERFECT -Although it may be more coincidence than fact, three of Notre Dame's poorer football performances over the last three years have occurred when the Irish did not practice at the game site the day before the game. 
The Irish suffered a 40-18 drubbing at Tennessee in 1979 when rain prohibited them from practicing on Friday prior to the game. Last year· the Irish won a let­hargic 26-21 victory at Michigan State after Dan Devine decided not to practice at Spartan Stadium the day 

before. Although the Irish did win, Harry Oliver had to 
bail the team out with four field goals (three when the 
ball was within 1"> yards of the goal line) when the of­
fense bogged down. 
Last weekend the Irish coaching staff opted to 
workout at Notre Dame prior to the trip to Ann Arbor. 
BIG ELEVEN-The Irish sport a 159-71-13 (.681) all-time ledger against Big Ten foes. Despite the Michi­gan loss, which snapped a four-game winning streak in the Big Ten, Notre Dame has won 12 of its last l 5 con­tests against teams in that midwest loop. Michigan claims two ofthose Big Ten decisions ( 1978 and 1981) and Purdue owns the other ( 1979). 
SHOW STOPPER -Senior middle linebacker Bob 
Crable now ranks third in the Irish record books with 
387 car,er tackles, including 20 against Michigan. The 
all-America captain trails only Bob Golic ( 479) and 
Steve Heimkreiter (398) on the all-time Irish stop 
charts. 
RESERVE ROLES -The junior varsity Irish footbal­
lers open their schedule on Sunday with a 1:30 p.m. 
contest against Purdue on Cartier Field. Three other 
varsity reserve games are set for this fall -October 4 at 
Illinois, October 12 at Tennessee Military Institute and 
October 30 against Michigan. 
PICKING A WINNER -Notre Dame boasts the best 
all-time winning percentage of any collegiate football 
team in the country. Despite Saturday's setback at the 
hands of Michigan, the Irish own a 617-167-39 record 
since their first game was played back in 1887 for a .774 
winning percentage. The next four teams in the top five are Yale (710-202-53..763), Michigan (624-207-31. .742), Alabama (578-193-41, .737) and Texas (';9';­218-29,.730). 
The Iri,sh also are rated fifth in all-time wins with 617 during their 92-year history. Yale tops the list with 710 wins in l 08 years. followed by Harvard (the Notre Dame ofthe East) with 639 in I06 years, Princeton with 637 victories in Ill years and Michigan with 624 wins in l 0 l years. 
See ITEMS, page 8 

what choice did he have, really? 
Yet as the practice days of April passed, the race for the job became tighter and tighter. After one spring scrimmage, Kiel was walking back to the locker room alone... slowly. 
"Good game, Blair," said a passer­
by. 
"Thanks," he responded. "I just hope I didn't lose any ground today." 
What a thing for the man who started 10 games the previous fall to have to say. But he was right. 
Kiel was in a familiar situation, but 
EDITOR'S NOTE: This is the second of two articles analyzing Notre Dame's two starting quarter­backs, Tim Koegel and Blair Kiel, and the unusual system in which Gerry Faust has opted to use them. Today -The Faust months. 
Tim Koegel was a virtual new-comer to a one-on-one quarterback derby. But who was No. l and who was No. 2? An announcement was expected, but never came. 
When the team returned this August, the two were virtually dead even. As the two-a-days became one­a-days, rumours circulated that Koegel was the man. "He really looks sharp," they'd say. 
The race went right down to the 
wire and  a  photo finish.  Upon in­ 
spection by  the  judges,  the  race  
went to Kiel, BUT ...  

Like the best and perhaps the worst races, there was no winner... or loser. Faust decided the best decison for the team was a com­promise -two starting quarter­backs, if you will. Kiel would start 
start of the LSU game, they used the LSU game to make their decision to go with Koegel as the starter against Michigan. The alternating continued and the second-guessing began. Many felt that neither quarterback could get in the groove when he knew he wouldn't be back on the field for a long time. 
So the logical question was, could this juggling be detrimental in the longrun? 
Perhaps, said Koegel. "The (players on) offense react different­ly to different players. But I don't think that's going to become a problem here." 
"It's good that we don't have to change the style ofthe offense to suit the quarterback," added Kiel allud­ing to the situation that Koegel and Courey faced at Purdue in I979. 
Faust didn't anticipate major dif­ficulties with his approach. He ack­nowledged that if one quarterback really had the hot hand, he'd leave him in the lineup longer as was evidenced Saturday when Koegel 

directed the last four Irish drives. 
But Faust did not and does not wish to place unwarranted pressure on either player. "We don't want to 
put added pressure  on  anyone by  
taking  them  out  for  making  a  
mistake," asserts Faust.  

Although no one would come right out and say it, the two­quarterback system failed Saturday. Faust did say, however, "Using two quarterbacks looks great when you win and not-so-great when you lose." 
But the numbers speak for them­selves. Consider the fact that against 
See STRUGGLE, page 8 

the opener, but Koegel and he ,-----------------, 
would rotate every two series. 
And that they did, and it was ef­fective against LSll. But for how long they can keep that up remained to be seen. 
''I'm glad they chose me to start the LSU game," Kid said last week. "But the situation is discouraging for both of us in a sense, because 'one of us would like to step forward and have the job. But as long as things work out the way they did against LSll, then this arrangement's OK with me. 
"I want what's best for the team, 
and ifthe offense moves equallr well 
no matter who's playing, then that's 
fine. As long as we're winning. I'm 
happy." 
Just as the coaches used the final 
pre-season scrimmage as their jus­
tification for going with Kiel at the 
AP Top Twenty The Top Twenty college football teams 1n The As­

sociated Press poll. w1th first-place votes in paren· theses. th1s season·s records and total po1nts. Points based on 20-19-1 B-17 etc. Notre Dame oponents are 
italicized 
1. Southern Cal (46) 2·0 {1.258 2. Oklahoma (15) 1-0 1.203 3. Penn State (2) 1-0 1.092 4. Texas (1) 1-0 1.038 5 Pinsburgh 2-0 976 6 UCLA 2-0 912 7. Michigan (1) 1-1 903 B. Ohio State 2-0 832 
9. North C arohna 2-0 806 10. Alabama 2-1 556 11. Brigham Young 3-0 554 12. Mississippi State 2-0 549 13. Notre Dame 1-1 548 14 Miami(Fia.) 2-0 439 15. Nebraska 1-1 412 16 Wash1ngton 2-0 378 17. Georgia 2-1 365 18 Anzona State 2-0 265 t9. Clemson 
3·0 227 20. Southern Method1st . 3-0 125 







