
• • .Desegregation -page 2 

VOL XV, NO. 79 an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and saint mary's 
Brosh discusses Jerusalem furor 
By MARY AGNES CAREY 
StaffReporter 
The practicality of Arabs and jews living peacefully together in jerusalem was the message of Amba.~sador Zvi Brosh, special advisor to the mayor of Jerusalem, to a large crowd in Haggar Hall last night. 
'This belief Is ha.~ed on mutual and common progress," Brosh said, "it is not a utopian belief. We see the administration ofjerusalem as something to experiment with and adjust to the needs and necessities ofall," he said. 
Brosh, explaining "I'm here on a very special mission," is part of the 
Jerusalem Committee which meets today and tomorrow with University President Fr. Theodore Hesburgh. Brosh said the group will "convene and look at what we're doing -take stock of the tremendous work that's been done injt·rusakm-peck into the looking glass and see what lies ahead." 
Brosh said, "a t1rm hand and a clear-cut mandate to get us back on the road economically" is tht· purpose of the upcomingjune elections in Israel, and he added any economic recovery program must he "realistic and effective. At best, the economy will stay put." 
The Amba.~sador noted, however, that jerusalem "must preserve its unity a.~ a city and Its status as the sovereign capital of Israel," an overall purpose "that is shared by everyone." • 
Despitt· a temporary stalemate in settling economic and political issues with Egypt, Brosh views Jerusalem as "one bright light." According to Brosh, Jerusalem will "forge ahead" to raise the standard ofliving of the city's Arab inhabitants "to what jewish inhabitants have enjoyed for 30 years," as well as the city's t·fforts to "renovate, renew, and rejuvenate" itself to become "a more beautiful city to live in and visit," he said. 
Brosh noted Jerusalem's improvements in water distribution, drainage systt·ms, and increased preservation and rebuilding of historic sights of all religions a.~ some of the city's recent measures to improve life for Arab in­habitants. Brosh added that making "a city that is capable ofa tlow of600,000 Christians coming to jerusalem each yeat to worship at their holy places" as "the ta.~k we enjoy most." 
Maintaining the "tranquillity of day-to-day life," the ambassador ex· plained, rt·quires "new solutions to different problems every day," and he assured the Arab residents ofJerusalem "that this is not a pa.~sing phase." Brosh noted the extension of free education through high school for both Jewish and Arab children, with all schools governed by the Jordanian cur· 
See BROSH, page 6 

Drugs: Fedsfind stash, no cash 
Narcotic baron Nicky Barnes went 10 prison but yielded a mere pittam:e of his heroin fortune to the government. The wealth of the dis· solved Black Tuna gang remained virtually intat:t. Yet in those cases and S<.'ores of others, the govern­ment had the legal right to claim wealtn accumulated in the lucrative drug smuggling market. 
The government has had that aut­
hority form more than 10 years but 
ha.~ used It rarely and with modest success. justice Department officials and congressional critics offer several rea.'ions for the failure: 
Narcotics agents, more attuned to the buy-and-bust approach, have been taught little about the financial investigations necessary to trace and claim cash, property and other as­
sets acquired with drug money. 
Prosecutors, more intent upon winning criminal convictions of drug traffickers, have neglectd the necessary procedural steps to seize assets. 
Judges, in the interest of protect· ing defendants' rights, have refused to freeze assets the government has attempted to seize. 
Smugglers, ever more sophit· icated in international t1nance, have developed ingenious methods of spiriting their fortunes beyond the 
reach of U.S. authorities. 
Justice Department and Drug En­forcement Administration officials say they are fixing some of the tlaws 
A holy "jihad" 
call for the DEA to recruit agents with training and experience in

Summit calls for war 
TAIF, Saudi Arabia (AP) -The 37·nation Islamic summit displayed unity on the emotional issue of Jerusalem yesterday and rallied be· hind new calls for a "jihad" or "holy war" to wrest the Holy City from Is­raeli control. 
Both Morocco's moderate King Hassan and PLO guerrilla chief Yas· ser Arafat urgt·d united action to regain Arab sovereignty over jerusalem. 
handling of such divisive issues as the Iran-Iraq war and a resolution to condemn Soviet intervention in Af­ghanistan. 
Iran and Libya have boycotted the summit and Egypt and Afghanistan have been suspended from the 42­nation Islamic Conference. 
In his speech, Hassan was careful to define "jihad" as a "moral and material struggle" rather than a military campaign against theJewish state. 
The eastern sector of Jerusalem, captured by Israel from jordan in the 1967 Mideast War, is the site of Is· lam's third holiest shrine, the AI Aksa Mosque. 
The threat of an Arab oil cut off and U.N. condemnation ofthe Israeli action caused 13 South American and European countries to move their embassies from jerusalem to Tel Aviv. 
The Moroccan monarch headed a committee that drafted the Islamic financial investigations. 
The Black Tuna case, cited by justice and the DEA as one of their biggest and best narcotics investiga· tions, illustrates the difficulties of seizing assets. 
The sensational Florida trial last year ended with convictions and long prison sentences for Robert Meinster and Robert William Plat· shorn, described by the government as ringleaders of an international marijuana smuggling operation which used the code name Black Tuna. 

WEDNESDAY,JANUARY28, 1981 
St. Edwards' 
construction 
to finish 

in August 
~TIM VERCELLOTII 
SentorStaffReporter 
With the help of Mother Nature 
the reconstruction of St. Edward's 
Hall is on schedule, according to Fr. 
Michael Heppcn of the Housing 
office. Heppen foresees an August 
completion date. 
"I would anticipate moving into the main building In August," Hep­pen said. He was hopeful that the new four-floor annex would also be ready at that time, but was unable to make a statement pending confirma· tion on that date from the builders. 

Donald Dedrick, director of the University's Physical Plant, designated August 1 as the tentative date of completion for both build­Ings. 
Regarding room assignments for the 1981-82 year, Heppen stated that residents of St. Ed's "will be eligible for room picks according to the rules established by Fr. Mario Pedl, rector ofthe hall." 
According to Pedl, the assign· ments will be conducted as in past years, with preference going to seniors. The picks In each class will be determined by an In-hall lottery. 
Should the unforeseen occur, and the annex Is not completed by the beginning of the fall term, stuents who have chosen rooms in the an­nex will be housed elsewhere until the work is completed. "I will have something for them," Heppen stated. 
Among the features of the resur­rected dorm will be an increased amount of social space, an elevator, and room for SO addtltional stu· dents, raising St. Ed's population to 
187. Due to graduating seniors and the small nummber of residents from this year's freshmen class, only one-third of the hall will consist of upperclassmen. 

When constru<.·tion Is completed, St. Ed's will feature singles, doubles, triples, and quads. The safety features of the dorm include a sprlnker system, and smoke detec­tors. A "Second Empire French Man· sard" roofwill top the building. The exterior of the annex will consist of "Notre Dame" brick, similar to that used In building Lewis Hall and the Infirmary. "Its going to be an at­tractive dorm," Hcppen t·om­mented. 
According to Dedrick, workers are presently applying a coat of brown plaster to the interior of the first floor. Old wiring and plumbing have been replaced and the sprinker system has been Installed. The second, third, and fourth floors are in various stages of the same opera­in the seizure operation, but con· gressional critics remain skeptical. They expect to present the Reagan administration with recommenda· tions for strengthening enforcement ofthe seizure laws. 
The General Accounting Office, the congressional watchdog agency, is due to complete a report this month detailing those r.ecommenda­tions. Among the proposals will be a 


After the speeches, Arafat -Saudi Arabia's Crown Prince Fahd summit's anti-Israel strategy and a Prosecutors said the gang tion. Cinderblocks for the annex are being laid anl! Dedrick anticipates
drt•ssed in a battle jacket and sounded a call, which has broad "Jerusalem document" is expected amuggled $300 million worth of that this stage of construction willchecked headdress -walked arm emotional appeal to the world's 800 to be unveiled today in the t1nal ses­marijuana into the U.S. in one 16­take approximately four weeks.
and arm with the North African million Moslems, last July after Is· sion of the four-day summit. month period and operated for five Heppcn estimated the total cost of
monarch from the glittering $300 rael's Parliament declared the In his speech, Hasan said Islamic years. million conference hall. predominately Arab sector of leaders should have resorted to The government seized only reconstructing St. Ed's to be around 
U.S million, much of which will

llowever as the summit neared its Jerusalem part of its unit1ed and "jihad" the "day Israel annexed S132,000 in Barnes' car at the time end, differences remained over the "eternal capital." Jerusalem. of his arrest 


Wednesday,January 28, 1981-page 2


NewsBrieb 
~==~========~================================~ 

by The Observer and The Associated Press 
TheJustice Departmenthas decided to ask various 

U.S. courts for a 30-day delay of any action on claims against Iranian assets while the Reagan administration studies the agreements that led to the hostages' release. Department spokesman Mark T. Sheehan said yesterday the government plans to file statements of interest with district courts which have before them more than 300 outstanding claims by U.S. banks or companies against the assets, which had been frozen. Under executive orders signed by former President Carter, 
those cases would be prohibited from going to trial and the claims referred to an international settlement commission. The Reagan ad­ministration has said that it intends to honor the agreements that are consistent with U.S. international law. The 30-day delay is designed to allow the administration time to study details ofthe agreements. -AP 
Legislation that would remove 2 million 

people from the food stamp program, for a savings of $495 million in 1982, was introduced yesterday by Sen. William Proxmire. "Clearly the food stamp program is out of control," said Proxmire, D/Wis., a member of the Senate Appropriations Committee. "Steps must be taken -and taken now -to put some restraint and rationality into this runaway program." Proxmire's bill would restrict the number of people eligible to participate in the program by reducing the amount of money the government disregards in computing an applicant's 
income. -AP 
President Reagan is likely to lift the remaining 

controls on oil prices today, a White House official said yesterday. The action could raise gasoline prices as much as 12 cents a gallon while adding $7 billion to the federal treasury through increased tax revenues collected from the oil companies. The White House had planned to announce the action yesterday, according to a White 
House source who asked not to be identified, but held off at the last minute because most of the day was devoted to the arrival of the hostages freed from Iran. About 25 percent of all domestic crude oil and all gasoline and propane are under the price controls im~osed nine years ago. Their removal began inJune 1979 after then Prestdent Jimmy Carter announced a new program in April 1979 that would have lifted all controls by Sept. 30, 1981. The controls had been imposed by President Richard M. Nixon as part of his wage. and pric~ 
control program and were continued through several penods of otl shortages. -AP. 
A power struggle between Iran's clergy-
dominated hardliners and President Bani-Sadr's secular moderates escalated yesterday, with the president charging that opponents had twice plotted to assassinate him in the past two mont~s. T_h~ hardliners, rallying behind Prime Minister Mohammad Ah Ra)at, claimed Bani-Sadr's supporters attacked and ransacked their Islamic Republican Party's headquarters in the northeastern city of Mashhad, chanting "close the nest ofspies ." Islamic revolutionaries used "spy nest" to signify the U.S. Embassy in Tehran during the 444-day h?stage ordeal that also became a focal point in Bani-Sadr's struggle wtth the clergy. Bani·Sadr recently stepped up his critic~sm of the ~andling of the hostage crisis, claiming the agreement wtth the Umted States negotiated by Rajai and his hardline associat~s will return to Iran only a portion of the 511 billion in funds frozen-after the hostages were 
seized on Nov. 4. 1979. -AP. 
In celebration of freedom, the 52 hostages 
delivered from Iranian bondage took the salute of their countrymen yesterday. President Reagan coupled his homecoming tribute with a vow of "swift and effective retribution" should terrorists ever again seize American citizens. From a platform draped with an American flag for each of the former hostages, Reagan said the world must under­stand that "there are limits to our patience." Rejoicing in the return of the hostages, freed just as he took office a week ago, Reagan said there were no words better than the simplest to express the feelings of the 
nation: "Welcome home." "Our flight to freedom is now complete," replied Bruce Laingen, deputy chiefofthe mission in Tehran when the hostages were taken. "Mr. President, I give you ... 53 Americans who will always have a love affair with this country and who join you in a prayer of thanksgiving for the way in which this crisis has strengthened the spirit and resilience and strength that is the mark ofa 
truly free country." -AP. 
Cloudy in the morning and remaining partly cloudy through the afternoon. High in the low 30s. Cloudy again at night with a low in the mid 20s. Occasional snow flurries and cold tomorrow. High in the upper 20s. -AP. 

Plan?What plan? 

Throughout the past two decades, the subject of in­tegration has caused much consternation in American society. This issue, which includes abolishing racial segregation in public schools, has recently come into the limelight with the over-publicized cases in Boston and Louisiana. "Busing," the only option, thus far, that has made a successful stab at desegregation has gar· nered a nasty reputation. 
Invariably, the affected communities will split. Feelings and attitudes that were thought to be nonexist­ent will suddenly surface and the issue develops not into individuals discussing a problem but one ofa white race pitted against a minority race. 
Desegregation finally surfaced in the classic case of Brown vs. the Board ofEducation of Topeka, Kan. in 1954, in which the Supreme Court ruled that "separate institutions were inherently unequal." Although a mile­stone in the advancement of human rights, the case failed to generate a nation-wide interest in civil rights. It was not until ten years later when Lyndon johnson signed the long-awaited Civil Rights Act of 1964 that the issue of desegregation captured the attention and dismay ofthe American people. 
One year ago South Bend was slapped with an ul­timatum from the Depart­ment of justice. It had to desegregate its school sys­tem by the fall of 1981 or face the wrath of the federal government. This decree did not initially lead to fric­tion as one would expect, but, rather, it pulled the community together. Numerous committees were set up to explore all 
the facets ofa desegregation plan. Morale was high. En­thusiasm overflowed. People banded together with a common goal in sight. Unfortunately, this pinnacle of collective peace and cooperativeness soon toppled into a fragmented mass ofpublic frustration, bitterness and dispair. 
The actions that precipitated the downfall of com­munity solidarity were twofold: ( 1) The school board received only a very small portion of a federal grant which resulted in a cutback ofseveral committees and 
(2) the Department of)ustice forbade the South Bend School Corporation to release any information on the desegration plans to the public prior to the it's approval of the plan the public. The bottom line -only school 
board members were allowed to review the options made so far. Committee members who had worked closely on the plans felt cheated and angered by the board's decision to exclude them from any decision­making process. 
This act of secrecy shot to pieces any chance for a peaceful acceptance of desegregation. Mud-slinging rumors circulated. South Bend School Superintendant james Scamman lost his credibility as a public ad­ministrator. And the city now faced the growth of various factions pushing for their own interests ­groups that once worked in unison. 
,__The_Ohserxer_ 
Design Editor ...................... Scoop Sullivan Layout Staff. ................................. Ray Inglin Lisa Bontempo, Don Rodriguez Pat DePace, Tom Pugliese Typesetter ............................... Bruce Oakley News Editor...........................Tom jackman Copy Editor............................ Valerie Evans Sports Copy Editor ...............Gary Grassey Systems Control ..................... Marty Hynes ND Day Editor ...................... Molly Woulfe SMC Day Editor......................]ohn Higgins 
Photographer............................ Helen Odar AdDesign .......................... Woody and Fran 


--•A!!IR!IOR 
Guest Appearances ........ Deirdre Murphy AJ, John,]ane·o Brock 

For anyone interested in writing St. Mary's News and Feature stories for the Observer this semester, a work shop will beheld on Wednesday Jan. 
The Observer (USPS 598 920) is published Monday through Friday except during exam a~d va~atlon 

28 from 7:30 to 8:30pm and Thurs 
periods. The Observer 1s8ublished by the students of Notre arne and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions 

day, Jan. 29 from 7:00 to 8:00pm 
may be purchased for $20 per year ($1 oper semester) by writing The 

in theSMC Observer office. Attend
Observer, P.O. Box 0, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame. Indiana 

on either night in Regina South base 
46556. The Observer is a member of the 

ment. For further info, call Mary at 
Associated Press. All reproduction 

41 5754 _____
rights are reserved. 

~",~::'::,...::,~'*« / ~ ~.y ,. 
~: .. v, ' ,,,,._, ''.Y. •'v• • •• '.•,,( 
The turning point occurred this past December when one board member, in the name of fairness, leaked to the newspapers what he believed to be the final outline for desegrgating the school system. Later, when questioned about this disclosure, Scamman simp­ly said that it was only one of four possible options. Needless to say, this evasive answer only added fuel to the already out-of-control ftre. 
It is important to realize thatjames Scamman was ear­nestly working for the good of the community. He failed, though, to understand the complexities of human nature and that too much change at one time will inevitably result in a social paranoia. People do not like to feel cornered; and in this particular case, the 
parents of South Bend 
school children felt 
threatened by Scamman's vi­
sion for the future. Not only 
did Scamman want to suc­
cessfully desegregate the 
schools, but he desired to 
change the overall structure 
ofthe South Bend education 
system as well. The 
modification of the 
structure would center 
around three changes: al­
ternative schools (open 
classrooms, diversity ofclass 
selections, etc.), an up­
heaval of the "grade separa­
p,~· tion" structure (that is, 
changed to K-5 and so on), 
and finally because of 
declining enrollment some of the schools would have 
to be permanently closed. Parents simply became 
scared. 

The school board wanted the final vote on the plan to 
be wrapped up by the fall of'81, yet things looked quite 
bleak for any kind ofsettlement. They had set jan. 26 as 
the final day to hear public opinion on the desegrega­
tion options, however, this date was delayed due to the 
increasing wide-spread plea of"No Public Input." The 
final day has been rescheduled for Feb. 26, which the 
school board feels is ample time for the public to voice 
their opinions. Whether this month delay will produce 
any solid commitments to a desegregation plan remains 
to be seen and heard. What it boils down to is whether 
South Bend can get back on its feet again. 

Buy Classifieds!! 


... 

The Observer Wednesday,January 28, 1981 -page 3 

St. Catherines' Medal 

SMC honors achievement 
Members of the Abiogenesis Dance Company practice for their upcoming performance. (photo by Helen Odar) 
Hesburgh 
to celebrate 
hostage Mass 
A Mass in thanksgiving for the release of the "i2 Americans held hostage in Iran has been set for "i: I 5 
p.m. tomorrow in Sacred Heart Church. Rev. Theodore M. Hes· hurgh will he the principal con· cclehrant. 
Among the hostages released was a 1954 Notre Dame graduate, Thomas L Ahern of Falls Church, Va., a memher of the U.S. Embassy staff in Teheran. The United States Congress has proclaimed tomorrow "A Day ofThanksgiving." 
SCUBA LESSONS 
Spring Semester 

Come to Room 2D LaFortune Center 7:00PM-Wed., Jan. 28 Bring $30 Deposit 
Find out about our Bahamas Trip for Spring Break! 
Cal1272-8607 or 272-9780 
LAST CHANCE 
Aquapro Scuba Center 

By LINDA WEEKS 
News Staff 
Each year, Saint Mary's College awards the St. Catherine's Medal to an outstanding sophomore or junior student to recognize unusual under­graduate acheivement and to give encouragement and incentive during the middle years of under­graduate study. 
This award is sponsored by Kappa Gamma Pi, the National Catholic Honor Society with which Saint Mary's is affiliated. 
Each January, the Committee on Academic Standards invites mem­bers of the Saint Mary's community to nominate those students who best exemplify the high ideals ofCat­holic womanhood. The committee gathers information on the can­didates and invites each girl to reply to her nomination. According to Mrs. Marcy, Academic Affairs Direc­tor, it is often difficult to get the can­didates to reply because "they 
COMPETEFOR30R2YEAR 
SCHOLARSHIPS 
CALL 283-6252 



ARMY ROTC 


usually don't like to toot their own hom." The committee carefully reviews each candidate and selects a winner on the basis of academic ac­heivement and service to church, college, and civil community. 
The committee anounces its deci­sion in the early spring, and the win­ner receives the St. Catherine's Medal at the Honors Awards Con­vocation at the end ofthe year. 
Patricia Burke, now a senior, received the 1980 St. Catherine's Medal for her outstanding academic acheivements and her involvement in several charitable organizations. Patricia, a residence advisor in Regina Hall, is involved in CILA, helps students prepare for the Ireland Program, and has been in· 
volved in the Urban Plunge program. Women like Patricia il­lustrate the ideals and values sig· ni.fied in the St. Catherine's Medal. 

DON'T FORGET Ill Tonight for the First Time, 
SPRING ACTIVITIES NIGHT 
Sponsored by Alpha Phi Omega and Student Activities Preregistered club leaders should set 
up tables at 6:30 p.m. Spring Activities Night --Lafortune Student Center 7:00 -9:00 p.m. 
HOPE TO SEE YOU THEREIIII 

AN INTERNATIONAL TOURING BAND OF CAMPUS CRUSADE FOR CHRIST 
FRIDAY • 8:00 P.M. • 
N.D. LIBRARY AUDITORIUM $3.00 • ADVANCE $3.50 • DOOR 
Tickets at: Union Ticket Office. River City Records 
Preser«ed by 
Knights of Columbus and Campus Crusade for Christ 



... 

Wednesday,January 28, 1981 -page 4


Editorials 
·outside Wednes ay 
Iran: is it really over? 

Anthony Walton 
It is hard to believe that the hostage crisis is actually over. It went on for so long that it seemed to become like another fact oflife, especially with the periodic media overkills With sudsidings into 'normalcy' as the drugdery wore 
on. 
The numbering of the days in the newspapers became some sort of strange calendar without any concrete meaning, and. the television news now seems some­how lacking without the daily punctuations: "and as day so­and-so of the hostage crisis comes to a close, there is no break­
through in sight." 
It goes without saying that we are all tremendously relieved that it is finally over. But how do we look back upon this unique inci­dent in U.S. history? There is no single analysis or interpretation that can be assigned to tie it all up neatly and file it away. In fact, even in resolution, I don't find the Iranian experience answering any questions, but rath'er creating batches of new ones which in turn generate more. 
The first and most obvious question is whether or not the crisis was handled correctly by the Carter administration. Recall­ing the first few weeks of the seizure, I remember many demonstrations and calls for retribution. but most of this calmed as the weeks wore on, and as the weeks turned into months, 
most people seemed to forget the 
issue, or a least it lost its emotion­
al content. The nation returned to 
business as usual. 
In retrospect, I think Carter's gradual defusing of the situation was the best way to handle it for one reason: it saved at least 52 lives, likely hundreds more, potentially thousands. If one has any regard at all for human life, this has to be the final conclusion. It is easy to speak of "national in­terest" and "geopolitical con­siderations," but the fact is that only 8 men died as a result of the whole incident, and this is to Car­ter's credit. He preserved the peace at a very touchy time. An incident much less significant than this one ignited World War I. Carter's handling of the situation is to be saluted. 


Doonesbury Garry Trudeau 



It is also necessary, however, to look at what might have hap­pened had the crisis been handled differently. One possible solution might have been to hand down a deadline to the Iranians, which if not complied with would have resulted in the bombing of a city or strategic facilty. This policy would have probably resulted in the hostages being killed, and then the U.S. would have been left with only a revenge al­ternative and it would not have done any good to kill a lot of in­nocent Iranians. So again, I think that Carter's handling of the situa­tion was prudent. (Besides this, the failure of the rescue mission illustrated the problems involved with any quick strike military retaliation in this specific in­stance.) 
Another consideration is the shrewd manipulation of many facets of the situation, especially the media, by the Iranian govern­ment. They probably would not have been a match on a bat­tlefield, but they were a for­midable psychological foe. 
For example, consider the Christmas videotapes of the hostages. Just as the pressure was building for another military ex­cursion, the Iranians injected a factor of humanity into the situa­tion. Until then, the media had been used to intimidate and coerce the U.S.; now the captors were using it to seduce and disarm the American public. We saw the 
· hostages as human beings instead of 52 reasons to nuke Iran, and it became hard to speak of any kind of life-endangering action be­cause we had come to know the hostages as people, and they assumed an almost neighborly role. 
This was a master stroke by the Iranians, and at the risk of sound­ing like a Commie baiter, I won­der if the KGB was in on it, because it was classic use of television psychology and propaganda. 
I hope the U.S. learned a few things from the crisis, most prominently that we can't trust our "friends." No country really came to our aid, and what token sanctions that were proffered came after coercion. Every one of the traditional "allies" feared offending either the Arabs or the Iranians. 
At present, this sheds a foreboding light upon the word "alliance." If nations allow the oil question to dictate foreign policy there will be a new era of "every nation for itself' that will undermine any attempt at unified Western action. Perhaps this should be the strongest lesson of the crisis, as it was taught before to no avail during the Arab Oil 
Embargo. The industrial West has to free itselffrom Middle East oil dependence or else. What will it take to drive this fact home? 
Another lesson that should not be lost in the rhetoric of the crisis · and its solution is in how to avoid a repeat in the future. The U.S. cannot afford to overlook the kinds of problems that caused the crisis. The best prevention would 

be to develop better intelligence operations in order to be more aware of changing political climes in unsettling countries. (The CIA, however, should never again be allowed to meddle in the affairs of another country.) 
The U.S. cannot be held or con­sidered responsible for unpopular rulers like the shah. There is potential for a rerun in several countries. What would happen if leftist (or rightist) guerillas in El Salvador seized the embassy there in order to bring down the government? It would be more prudent to let developments in countries take their own course rather than courting possible resentment by supporting un­popular regimes. 
Also, this is more desirable than relying upon military brutishness to insure security. In the Iranian instance strong military action would not have ac­complished much more than to solidify Arab and Iranian resis­tance, and most likely it would have brought the Soviets into the equation. They would have liked nothing better than to have an excuse to send some advisers into Iran. Military might is no longer a panacea. (This raises another interesting question as to what good are nuclear weapons when military needs are more likely to require quick "hot-soit" flexibility?) 
All in all, I'm very glad that, if this had to happen, it happened with Carter in control rather than Reagan. IfReagan had been presi­dent then, a good number of us would probably be in Teheran cradling M-16s. 
Something else occurred to me while taking in all the hoopla surrounding the return of the hostages: I wish people would leave them alone and not try to make heroes out of them. As psychologist Herbert Gold said, they are not heroes, they are vic­tims. I think they need their privacy to ease their return to as normal a life as possble, and they don't need People, National En­quirer, or even Time for that mat­ter, prying into their lives. But, these days the country needs something to cheer about. 
I think, however, that if there were any heroes involved, they were the eight men who died in the rescue mission, and one very maligned president, Jimmy Car­ter. 
Anthony Walton appears each Wednesday on The Observer's editorials page. 


Editorial Board and Department Managers 
Edltor-tn-Cbtef......................................Paui Mullaney Sports Edttor........................................... Beth Huffman Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 Managing Edltor.......................... : ............... Mark Rust Features Editor.......................................Molly Woulfe 
The Observer is an independent newspaper published by the stud{'nts of the Editorials Edttor.............................. Michaei Onufrak Pboto Editor ...............................................John Mac or University ofN<;me Dame du ~a.c and Saint ~ary's College. It does not nec{'ssanly Sentor Copy Editor.....................Mary Fran Callahan reflect the poliCies of the admmtstrauon _of etthe~ m~uruuon. The news ts reponed Executive News Editor.........................Tom Jackman BusinessManager ..................................Greg Hedges as accurately and as objecuvely as posstble: Edtto_n~ls represent the optmon of a News Editor...............................................Pam Degnan Controller ........................................................Jim Rudd majority of the Editorial Board. Com~enranes, opmwns, and letters are the vtews News Editor ...., .......................................... Lynne Daley Advertising Manager...................................Mark Ellis of their authors. Column space ts avatlable to all members of the c~mmunlty, and SMCExecutive Edltor.......................... Margie Brassll Circulation Manager............................Beth Hackett the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, ts encouraged. SMCNews Edltor......................................Mary Leavitt Production Manager.......................... .John McGrath 


The Observer~-~--cc-c--~ 

T0 da~========================W=ed=n=e=sd=a=y,=Jan=u=ary=2=8=,1=9=8=1=p=a=g=e=5 
Campus 
• !2:15p.m. lecture: microbiology and social justice: a preview of the justice teach­In, dr. julian r. pleasants, galvin auditorium. 
• 
4-6 p.m. -ticket distribution for keenan revue, washington hall and o'laughlin auditorium. 

• 
4:1 5 p.m. -labor workshop: Impact of cumpulsory arbitra­tion on the bargaining process and wage outcomes, ms. marie connolly, room 700 in the memorial library. 

• 
4:20 p.m. -lecture: crlminallstlcs and forensic sciences or the science ofcrime detection, louis vitullo, medical Investigator for state of illinois, room 118 nieuwland. coffee from 3:45-4:10 p.m. in room 220. 

• 
4:30 p.m. -meeting: man­datory for captains ofmen's vol­leyball team, ace, women's meeting In lnterhall office. 5 p.m. -mass, feast of st. thomas aquinas, alumni hall chapel. 

• 
6, 8:30, II p.m. -film: the great santlni, sponsored by so­cial concerns, engineering auditorium, S 1 admission. 

• 
7 p.m. -meeting: student senate, room 120 hayes healey. 

• 
7 p.m. -training program for general motors: steve hartwig and chris muhlcnkamp, memorial library lounge. 

• 
7-9 p.m. -activity's night, Ia fortune student center. 

• 
7 p.m. -film: chaplin's es· sanay films ( 191 'H 916), ar­chitecture building, room 202, 

S I admission. 

• 
7:30p.m. -lectun·: the mis· slon of the church and justice, rev. richard mcbrien, carroll hall ( smc ), sponsored by dept. of religious studies and educa­tion for justice committee. 

• 
7:30 p.m. -basketball, saint mary's vs. notre dame, angela. 

• 
8 p.m. -finance forum presents mr. david dobin, senior vice-president of dean, witter, & reynolds, hayes-healy, room 122. 


SURE to meet 
,. 

SURE (Students United for Responsible Energy) will hold an or­ganizational meeting tonight at 6:30 
p.m. in the Lal'ortunc Ballroom. All arc Invited to attend. 
Molarity 

Michael Molinelli 

Charles Schulz 


The Daily Crossword 
©1981 by Chicago Trlbune-N.Y. News Synd. Inc. All Riahts Reserved 
ACROSS 26 The -of 1 Pronoun Triumph 4 Gelatin 27 Elan 
mold 30 Camera 9 "One Hoss-" products 13 Take-34 Egrets 
view of 36 -enscene 15 Agnew 37 Fresh 16 Bathroom 38 He was, to 
decor Cato 17 EastGer· 39 Barter man city 41 Anderson 
18 Follow of TV closely 42 Stein 19 "-a Kick 43 Table 
out of You" scraps 20 Average 44 Night man sounds 22 Forgetful· 46 Arctic ness water birds 24 Street 49 Kiln for show drying hops 
Yesterday's Puzzle Solved: 

50 Cleo's 14 Momlng 
river glory 51 Finished 21 Mend socks 53 Plus 23 Irish· 
factor Gaelic 54 Bring 25 Asawhole 58 "Peter Pan" 27 Soundsof 
pirate attantlon 59 Ancient 28 Certain length TV show 62 Wolfe the 29 Hepburn 
sleuth film, 1944 63 Pare 31 Help 64 Tt1ke­32 Belief 
(throw a 33 Zurich 
fight) citizen 65 Grating 35 Conveyance 66 Warhol 40 Hwy. 67 Moore 41 Taking on 68 Expert cargo 
43 Makegoo-DOWN goo eyes at 1 Mecca 45 Coward pilgrimage 47 With great 2 Brainstorm: judgment 
pref. 48 Salad 3 Ho Chi -Ingredient 4 Fur trader 52 Daunt 
of old 53 Sobelt 5 Wild 55 Miles of 
flings movies 6 A Lindstrom 56 Philosopher 7 Bela's son Hoffer 8 Cavasin 57 Usedthe 9 Sudden car 
sharp pain 58 Resort 10 Top cards 60 Japanese 11 Toward edible 
shelter plant 12 But 61 "So-" 
You are cordially invited to attend a talk by Peter D. Ehrenhaft, Esq. at 
12:15 p.m. on Friday, Jan. 30 in room 101 of the Notre Dame Law School. Mr. Ehrenhaft's talk is entitled .. Judicialization of Trade Law " . 
Mr. Ehrenhaft has served as the Department Assistant to the Secretary of the Treasury and has also participated in the preparation of the 
Freun Report to the United States Supreme Court. He is P•\::" ntly a partner with the Washington office of Hughes, Hubbard and Reed. All are welcome. 
(Student Union's I 
FREE University Registration: Wed., Jan. 28th Thurs., Jan 29th 
from 6:00 to 1:00 PM in ballroom lnd floor La Fortune 
Classes begin the week L of February 2nd _j 

McBrien to discuss justice 
NOTRE DAME, Indiana -Rev. Richard P. McBrien, chairman oftht: theology department at tht· lJniver­sity of Notrt: Dame. will discuss The Mission of the Chun:h and Justice at 
7:30 p.m. tonight in Carroll Hall at Saint Mary's. 
Author of the widely a<:claimed book Catholicism, Rev. McBrien is also known for his commentaries on Vatican events for CBS. He is the for­mer president of the American Theological Society and past recipient of the John Courtney Mur­ray award for distinguished con­tributions to theology. 

---------~ 
The Observer Wednesday, January 28, 1981 -page 6 
MARDI GRAS 

MICHIGAN SNO-N-GO REPORTS 
Snow, ski, snowmobile and road reports 24 hours a day. Free lite available. 

Call toll-free 800-248-5700 

.. . PrevieW" 
continuedfrom page 8 

little more depth at the guard posi­tion since Deb Hensley has been coming around, but that's it." 
Dallessio feels that the guard spot is indeed a crucial one, and he points 
continuedfrom page 1 

riculum (allowing more job oppor­tunities), as well as the introduction of adult education as important measures taken to benefit Arab resi­dents. 
Brosh stated "hardly any ter-. rorism" existed in the city, and said the "threat of terrorism hangs more over the Arab population than the Jewish population." The ambassador noted that although no Arab has been a member oftheJerusalem city one who has to do it in the clutch," he says. "She is their leader on and off the floor and the key to the 
team." Going up against the 5-0 Lally will be Saint Mary Maureen O'Brien. 
.Brosh 
remain the united capital of Israel, and give Arabs, in their inhabitance as a minority, every possible control over their own lives." 
Brosh responded to audience questions concerning several issues. In an inquiry about the future population of Jerusalem, Brosh ex­plained that the city's population by the year 2000 will not exceed 650,000 (the current population is 400,000) in order to maintain Jerusalem as a city one may "drive through." Noting the difficulty of population control, Brosh admitted that Jerusalem has "urban problems like any other city." 
Answering a question about Jerusalem's plans for its Arab resi­dents, Brosh repeated the impor­tance of allowing the Arabs to run their lives as independently as pos­sible. 
Concerning the lack of Arab resi­dents in city government, the am­bassador noted the Arab's fear of "very acute terrorism" as the major reason. Brosh, commenting on the Palestine Liberation Organization (PLO ), stated the PLO endorses both terrorism and "the elimination ofIsrael." 
Today's opening session of the Jerusalem Committee begins at 4 
p.m. in the Center for Continuing Education and is open to the public. 
to  Notre  Dame's  senior  captain,  
Maggie Lally,  as  the  key  to  Irish  
success.  

"I think Shari (Matvey) is an ex­cellent player, and they have some good fr(:shmen, but Maggie is the 
JUDO-"THE GENTLE 

WAY" equals selfdefense & sport & conditioning All beginners or ranked ND-SMC students and faculty welcome. Black belt instruction. sunday2:00pm monday6:00pm starts SUNDAY JANUARY 25. 2nd floor Rockne bldg. 
call Mark 3303 or John 8471 
council due to fears of "exposing a threat to the city's tranquillity," Arab residents still discuss issues and con­cerns with city leaders through various committees. "The Arabs are not exposed to the glare of the cameras," he said. 
According to Brosh, Jerusalem can be viewed as "a pattern that proves co-existence between Jews and Arabs is not only possible but beneficial for both. Together we can find a way," he said,"forJerusalem to 

NOTRE DAME STUDENT UNION 
SPRING BREAK IN DAYTONA BEACH 
MARCH 13 ­ 22. 1981  
5207  4 PER ROOM 12 Double Beds)  
5195  6 PER ROOM 13 Double Beds)  
TRIP INCLUDES  

• 
Round trip motor coach transportation on first class charter coaches leaving the campus Friday 

evening March 13 and traveling straight through with plenty of partying to Daytona Beach, arriving the following day. The return trip departs the follow­ing Sat. in the afternoon, and arrives back on campus the next day. 

• 
A full seven nights accommodations at the Plaza Hotel of Daytona Beach, Florida. 

• 
A great time in Daytona with special parties and activities. 

• 
Optional trip to Disney World available. 

• 
All taxes and gratuities. 



SIGN UP NOW AT THE TICKET OFFICE IN THE LA FORTlJNE BUILDING 

8:00 a.m. -5:00 p.m. MON.-~·AI. OR CALL 283-3031 (after five 283-&~83J 
-----------··--------------------------------------------------------------------~---------------------------~ 

Classifieds 
NOTICES 
there'S MORE TO HIE STORY THAN MEETS THE EYE 
learn to lly with regional 
solo in less than 30 DAYS Regional Flying Club I• a nonprofit organization dedicated tn the: train· lng of student>. We: offer you the finesl c:quJpmt.·nt at tht· lowt·st rates In this area. Regional can take you from ground instruc·tion up through solo in less than 30 days. Call us now at 6113·94\19 and start flying today. 
professional typing. Term papers, these•. etc. Tap<· transcrip· lion. l.a.Cit yrar's same low prkcs. All work KUarantccd. aardvark automatk solutions. lK\1-67~3. 
typing. will do typing In my home. Term Paper., etc. 133·6730. 
pi tau sigma mt·mbers, including new inductees, plea-;t• attt·nd impor­tant membership mc:etlng Thrsday, January 2\1, 7:00 p.m. In Fitzpatrick 
Hall, room 3')'), 
attentionS thursday night howling league now for-MING, HANDICAP LEAGUE CONSISTING OF 5-MAN TEAMS, STARTING IN EARI.Y I'EIIRliARY. FOR FURTHER INFO CAI.L RAY AT 6M2. TO TURN IN TEAM ROSHRS CALL TOM AT 303\1. 
[ LOST/FOU~ 
loot; silver pierced earring (white enameled Dower). Reward. If found, l'all 277-11819. 
lost: Men'• gold class ring. P.C. High School. Orang<· stone. Phil 113311. 
lwn: room and car keys, ncar ad hldg. on an Fill ring. If found call 11700. 
found; a watl·h in stanford hall'S PARn' ROOM I.AST FRIDAY UAN. I 6 ). CALL PAlII. K6.i6. 
lost: Woman's Gold Watch on Friday: 67lK Sue: or Christy 6734. 
lost·Lost-Lost 
llxllllrn Envlp 
field Museum 
!'ish Biology 
Chris 11!8-117311 
lost blue bookbag. PLEASE CALL KEN AT 1632. 
lost cross pen set. ONE WITH FELT TIP, THE OTHER IS A lilliE BALLPOINT WITH NO MONOGRAM ON IT. HIGH PER­SONAL VALUE. PLEASE CALI. ·233· 4309. 
lost; casio pocket l'al<.:ulator in lc:athcr case. LEFT IN STIJDENTS CAR WHILE HITCH-IIIKING. PLEASE CALL 233· 430\1. 
FOR RENT 
houses for rt"nt summer and/or next school yt·ar. Good condition, close to campus. partiaUy furnished. For lnt<> c·all 2117-5361 after 6 p.m. 
house for rent, second semester and/or next year. Excellent condi· !ion, close to campus, partially fur­nished. ForinfocaU 187-5361 after6 
p.m. 
for Rent: Cozy apt. for rent near River & Park. S I ~0/mo. Call 232­4549. 
campus view apt. AVAIL. GREAT· 
I.Y REDUCED RENT. LISA AT 2968 OR MARIE AT 277·3~79. 
for rent; large, furnished houses for next Fall. For more information, call 1113-8702. 
furnished house for rent couple blocks from campus and furnished country house for rent, 12 minutes to N.D. 277-3604, 288·0\1~5. 
2 bedroom bungalow, carpeted, par­tially furnished, 10 minutes to N.D., good area. 21111·09SS. 
nkc houst·s for rent for next school 
year or summer. Furnished, good 
ndghhorhood, dose to campus. 277-~604, 21111-0955. 
share thret· bedroom house, two blocks from campus. One houst·mate needed. SIOO per month. 1117-')506. 
[~~ANTED ___ ] 
lwo Notre Dame students are looking for one or two roomatcs to live In five bedroom house. CaU 134­7988 and ask for Bob or Mike for details. 
wanted Ior 2 students to drive back to the new york new jersey area on wednesday january 28 till sunday february I. 1have my own car 4 day weekend call brendan 232-8931 
[~oR SALE ] 
for Sale 1974 AMC Hornet. Good Condition. J200 
for Sale: I \174 AMC Hornet. Good Condition. S2~0. Call David 233· 36~11. 

need 2 GA TICKETS FOR ND·UCLA BASKETBALL GAME. PLEASE CALL SHIRLEY AT866t OR 171511EFORE 5P.M. 
need ucla ga'S--CALL MATT AT 232-0')21. 
wanted: 2·4 GA's to UCLA and/or St. Francis basketball games. Top SUS. Call 11104. 
need UCLA tickets: 2 student and I GA. WiU pay megabuck US. Please caU Cyndy 8014. 
wanted; I UCLA TICKET, STU· DENT OR GA. PLEASE CALL PAT AT 277-8727 
need 2 UCLA GA'S. Call Jim, 4613. 
parents coming for jpw. NEED TWO GA TIX FOR UCLA. PLEASE CALL MARG AT 6879. 
desperately need two UCLA GA'S pay hlg U caU 1174 
desperately need one pair of UCLA GA tickets fo r my parents. Please help. Call steve anytime at 6656. 
rock with Santa Fe Friday, 8:00p.m.! 
need 4 GA UCLA TICKETS. CALL BOLOAT4510 
need 6 G.A. TICKETS FOR BOSTON-N.D. 1111 GAME ON FEB. 
10. WILL  PAY  BIG  SSU. CALL  
DOUG, 277·2787.  
wanted;  one  student  ticket  

to the ucla game. WIU PAY Ul. CAU MICHEUE AT 1363. 

All classlfted ads rr ust he tecetved bv 4 45 p m two days pnor to the tssue 1n whtch the ad IS run The Observer offtce w111 accept classtheds Monday through Fnt1av. 10 00 a I'TI to 4 45 p m All classtf•eds must be pre·Pa•d. eol!her m nerson or through the mall 
I--~-~RSONALS I 
social concerns film series begins this week with "the great santlnl." 
hey, jackie pagley--here's your per· sonal. I apologize profuoely for taking so long to publish this spot of wisdom, but hey, It's hard to think up something fitting to say about one of the world's most pulchritudinous 
young ladles. Have a decent day, 
scoop 
pam, thanks for holding me up last 
Friday--hope I don't repeat my per­
formance this week! 
scoop 
the Boss was great but walt til you hear Santa Fe! 
laubs, HOPE YOU HAVE A GREAT BIRTHDAY. WATCH OUT FOR THOSE "FRIENDS" OF YOURS AT THE HOSPITAL, THEY MIGHT WANT TO GIVE YOU A UTILE PRESENT!!! LOVE, RONES. 
pat, Diane, Deb, and Jets, 
Thanx so much roomies for the 
birthday dinner at Jeremiah's. It was 
great!! Snarf City! Mega-thanks also 
to everyone else who made tbe big 
"two-zero" as great as it was. · Bod, 
Brian, laurie, AI, Tim, julie, Jan, etc. 
No mor~ "Sugar MountaJn!!" 
love "you's" alii! Jeanne 
the rumors abound that you're 
being teased 
by the fellows who named you 
Queen Ruthless. 
The rumors are false but KC's quite 
pleased, 
'Cause now there's a Queen for King 
Worthless. 
MONOPOLY MOGULS 
dear Kahlua Kid, 
(Yeah, the one with the weird 
Egyptian(?) name.) 
Thanx for making my 19th 
birthday one ofthe happiest ofthem 
all! 
love, 
Sarph 
q; who is the most famous com­poser In the Yukon? 
A: Mooseorgsky, ofcourse! (One for Kathy and the music 
department) Moooe Control 
------------"'--­

--First Annual-­
OFF-CAMPUS FORMAL 
Century Center Great Hall January 31, 1981 9pm-1am---­Price: $14.00/couple Band: Crystal 

-
·" 
at the following locations ... 
Campus View: Sherri McGoni,l(le 
54585/rish Way Apt./03 277-8280 
St. Mar_y's Off-Campus Loun,{[e Ilam-Jpm LaFortune Student Center llam-lpm Notre Dame Apts. Carole McCollester Apt.4B 
OPEN BAR 9:30­10:30pm 


Spoftso,.tuJ By NlJ-SMCO{f-Campus (..'ummiuimu. 

----~ ~ --~~ 
-
Sports 
Rucker delights 

Irish bleed Big Red,S0-57 
By GARY GRASSEY Reynolds free throws, received reminds Irish followers of Associate Sports Editor seven straight points from the back­Woolridge's infancy stage three court tandem of Tracy Jackson and seasons ago, wasted no time canning 
As freshman student~body-John Paxson -one coming on a one long-range jumper and hitting a favorite Cecil Rucker's off-balance technical free throw by Paxson after shorter encore bucket from the foul 19-foot jumper fell through the net Reynolds grabbed the rim on a line. with 5:02 left to play, the Notre missed dunk attempt -to lead 31-In addition to getting his wish to Dame basketball team erupted with 20. "play some people", Phelps was a season's supply of high-fives, and Cornell capitalized on an abun­especially grateful for the contribu­Digger Phelps, in a rare display of dance of Irish fouls, including three tions of Andree and Kleine, who courtside delight, just sat back and each by starting center Tim Andree despite eight fouls between them, smiled. and Kleine, and left the court at in­produced 12 points and eight 
The Notre Dame coach and his termission down 41-32. Reynolds rebounds from the center position. squad were as happy as last night's was 7-of-9 at the charity stripe in the "Timmy's getting confidence jubilant sellout crowd, as the ninth­half every game," said Digger. "We've ranked Fighting Irish overcame. But Big Red coach Tom Miller told Tim if he stays in the three­some first half sleep-walking to wasn't surprised by what happened second lane he can do things of­storm past Ivy League also-ran Cor­next. fensively. Reynolds was the type of nell80-57. The win advanced Notre "They just stuck it to us," said the player Tim and Joe needed to go up Dame's record to 13·3 and upped former assistant to Bobby Knight at against to get ready for things com­the Irish winning streak to five. Indiana. "We're not very talented ing up." 
"For the first three or four and they (Notre Dame) are a helluva Jackson finished the evening with minutes we were still in the ball team. It's a credit to Digger and 14 points. Tripucka and Woolridge Maryland game," said Phelps, recall­his team coming off a game with added 13 and 11 respectively. ing Notre Dame's nationally­Maryland to comeback and play a Reynolds was Cornell's lone double­televised three-point victory over team like us consistently and intel­figure scorer. the Terrapins Saturday afternoon in ligently." HOOP-LORE -Digger and the College Park, Md. "By the second Notre Dame got the balanced team will catch up on some much half, we decided to be patient, work scoring it's been enjoying all year needed rest by taking today off...the the ball inside and play good from Paxson (team high-point man Irish coach is leery of Saturday's defense. The most important thing with 15), Jackson, Kelly Tripucka, South Carolina clash...the right now, though, is getting some and Orlando Woolridge as the Irish Gamecocks have had a mediocre rest -we're mentally tired." moved to a 66-42 bulge midway season but did upset Marquette in 
Overmatched Cornell, now 4-10, through the final 20 minutes before Milwaukee two weeks ago...senior actually stayed with the Irish for Phelps began emptying the bench swingman Gil Salinas will not under­about six minutes as 6-9 center Alex for showtime. go knee surgery despite strained Reynolds, game-high scorer with 21 By the time Woolridge treated the ligaments and torn cartilage, points, hit a turnaround jumper in audience to a customary slam dunk however the 6-11 veteran will re­the lane to bring the Big Red within andjackson fed Tripucka behind his quire a knee brace and a period of 14-12. back for a gimmee deuce, the cat­rehabilitation that may stretch to the 
But the Irish got four quick points calls began for Rucker. end of the regular season...Notre from freshman Joe Kleine to pull The 6-8 Washington, D.C. native, Dame has now won ten straight at ahead 24-18 and, following two whose physique and charisma home. 

By BETH HUFFMAN Jerry Dallessio, does not see the "Most of the Notre Dame Sports Editor home court as an advantage. shooters, as far as I can see, aren't "Home court advantage for us backboard shooters -most girls Saint Mary's will play host this really doesn't mean too much be­aren't backboard shooters," says evening to Notre Dame's women's cause half the students in the stands Dallessio, who also serves as the ath­
basketball team in the Angela Ath­will be rooting for Notre Dame," letic director at Saint Mary's. letic Facility at 7:30 p.m. The Irish says Dallessio, whose team is 3-2 in Besides, most of the Notre Dame hold a 8-0 record in the home-and­the AAF. 
girls have played in ourgym before." home series, including a 71-5 2 romp DiStanislao, whose squad is 6-8, With the mental game points Dec. 8 in the ACC. also cites the "half-moon back­aside, the two squads match up fairly "I think they have an edge playing boards" as posing a possible even. 
at home," says Mary DiStanislao, "perceptual problem" for her squad. "I don't see where we have an who is in her first year at the Irish But, again, Dallessio does not feel edge," says DiStanislao. "We have a the backboard situation will had to 
See PREVIEW, page 6

But, the Belles' third-year coach, his team's advantage. 





