• • .NFL Previews -pages 11, 13 

VOL XVI, NO. 8 an mdependem srudent newspaper serving notre dame and saint mary's THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 3, 1981 
Reagan defends PATCO firing 
CffiCAGO (AP)-In an effort to face appearance before a labor or­Improve.-relations with organized ganization since becoming presi­lahor, President Reagan is poised lO dent was March 30, the date he was reaffirm his hclicf In collective wounded in an assassination attempt bargaining and deny charges that his after addressing AFL-CIO Building is a union-busting administration. Trades Representatives. But in excerpts from a speech he Reagan's firing of the air control­will deliver today, Reagan defends lers and the administration's subse­
his firing of nearly 12,000 air traffic quent attempt to strip the controll~rs by drawing a distinction professional Air Traffic Controllers between strikes in private industry Organization of Its bargaining and illegal strikes against the govern­authority. produced howls of ment. protest from AFL-CIO President 
"Our very freedom Is secure be­Lane Kirklano and a host of other cause we are a nation governed by union leaders who accused the chief laws, not by men," he will tell the executive of trying to break the uni­
United Brotherhood of Carpenters on. and Joiners. "We have the means to The AFL-CIO has been in the van­change laws we find unjust or guard of protest over Reagan's onerous. We cannot as citizens pick economic policies and Is planning a and choose laws we will or will not huge solidary demonstration In the obey. nation's Capital September 19. 
"I can guarantee you that this ad­In the speech, Reagan will main­ministration will not fight inflation tain that organized labor's suppon of by attacking the sacred right of the government employee unions al­American workers to negotiate their ways has been based on a no-strike wages," he will say. "We proposed to concept. control government, not people." "Indeed, they insisted that unions 
The excerpts were released by of government employees should White House aides Wednesday as recognize this In their constitu­
Officials fear more red tape

Reagan headed to Chicago from Los tions," The president will say Angeles, where he spent the last according to the excerpt. INDIANAPOUS (AP) -Federal economic policy and Inter­·own bureaucracy as convulted and several days of his four week vaca­block grants may be a boon to the governmental goals. U.S. Rep. Lee Insensitive as the one in Washing­Hamilton, D-Ind., presided over the
tion. Reagan was to be the star at­Years ago, some leaders ofFederal states, but local government officials ton. As an example, he pointed to hearing, which focused on the im­the history of the Law Enforcement
traction last night at a fund-raiser in Employee Unions sought AFL-CIO fear the shift in administration may pact ofblock grants on Indiana
Chicago for the Illinois Republican backing for amove to give govern­mean more bureaucracy · not less, a Assistance Administration program, Gov. Roben D. Orr told the panel which had federal, state and local ad­
Pany. ment workers the right to strike, but congressional subcommittee was 
His speech to the: Carpenters and the Idea was shot down by high told yesterday. that Indiana will lose 125 million In ministrators at the same time. federal funds in the shift to block
Joiners will be Reagan's first to a ranking leaders In the Labor Federa­The comments came during a "At the time the funds were 
lahor group since he fired the air tion headed at the time by George hearing before the Joint Economic grants from categorical grants. Some proposed for fighting crime in the controllers. His only other face-to-Meany. Committee's subcommitte on of that shonage can be made up In streets of the cities In this state, administrative savings, he said. But there was precious little left to fight the remainder, panicularly in the so­crime because much of it had been 
Nationwide cial service area, will have to be drained off by this administrative passed along to program recipients bureaucracy," he said. as cuts in aid, he added. Hamilton suggested that the 
Gary Mayor Richard G. Hatcher, Legislature might provide the

Spending cuts affectstudents 
past president of the U.S. Con­needed protection for cities againstference of Mayors, said he was not 
the whims of state administrators. convinced that block grants were all

By MIKE O'BRIEN He explained that the surcharge keeps banks in the But Hatcher and Indianapolis Mayor 
they have been touted to be.

StaffReporter GSL program, since institutions would discontinue William H. Hudnut III scoffed at that 
Hatcher said one of his chiefcon­Idealoaning students money ifthey were receiving an Inter­cerns was that the state administra­

Notre Dame Director of Financial Aid Joseph Russo est rate below 18 percent. See GRANTS, page 4 tion ofblock grants would create Its
has reported that Federal spending cuts will continue to Russo noted that the surcharge represents a major create a substantial Impact on student assistance philosophical shifting of responsibility for the loan programs both here and on a nationwide scale. away from the Federal government to the individual 
In an Interview yesterday, Russo discussed the effects student. of the Reagan budget reductions on non-campus based Another major difference in the GSL program this Soviet soldiers killed Federal aid programs like Guaranteed Student Loans year Is the Interest rate on the loan itself. Students ( GSL) and Basic Educational Opportunity Grants receiving loans for the first time after January 1, 1981 • ( BEOG) as well as University administered programs will now pay a nine rather than five percent finance 
tn Angola raid 

such as National Direct Student Loans (NDSL) charge. JOHANNESBURG, South Africa were involved directly with the
Russo stated that the most severely effected of these The biggest chlange in the GSL will take effect Oc­(AP) -Two lieutenant colonels were Angola-based black nationalist guer­
programs will be: the GSL, which just happens to be the tober 1 when new student applicants with a combined among an undisclosed number of rillas the Africa
largest and most family income exceeding $30,000 will be required to of South-West 
Soviet soldiers killed by the South People's Organization, or SWAPO.

show their need for the loan. Students with a familyutilized financial THURSDAYa.*rt~~m
aid at Notrt· ,,:!ii£4h ., . ' African troops who raided Angola, a SWAPO has been fighting for 1 5 
Income below that figure will automatically pass this military spokesman said Tuesday. years to drive South Africa out ofmeans test. 
In a release carried by the South South-West Africa, a mineral-rich ad­

0 Russo, despite seeing a need to reform the GSL
:~;l~iLye~~~~::~ . ,, 1•F0CUS 
African Press Association, the jacent territory, the white-minorityprogram, called the means test solution simplistic, ar­spokesman identified a captured government has controlled since

slty's total enroll-guing that it failed to consider imponant factors such as Soviet officer as Sgt. Major Nicolai the end of World War I. The ter­
ment received approximately over S11 million in family size and varying tuition costs between a Notre <iuaranteed Loans. Dame and a locaJ public co!Jege. . Feodorovlc~ Pestr.etsov, captured as ritory is also known as Namibia. Fortunately, Russo said, most students responded He added that such a simplistic ceiling could actually he traveled m a mtlltary vehicle In a The defense spokesman said the 
early to threatened changes in the program and his increase borrowing below the $30,000 income level; C:: column of black nationalist guerrll-captured Soviet, Pestretsov, had office processed more applications sooner than ever and thus not meet the Reagan's administration las. been in Angola since 1979. The rank before. projected savings. In Paris, the ambassador of An-of master sergeant, traditionally the 
As a result, Russo said he believes all applicants for This failure of GSL cuts to meet the expectations of gola's Marxist government, highest level for an enlisted man, 19H1-Hlloans will receive the aid. He added, however, Budget Director David Stockman could, Russo acknowledged it was possible Soviet was not familiar to sources in Mos­that next yt•ar "will he a whole new ballgame." predicted, lead to deeper cuts In other loan-based soldiers were among those killed in cow. U.S. lnteUlgence manuals say 
The first of tht• big changes in the GSL program, he programs, nan1ely the NDSL and BEOG. last week's fighting in southern An-the hlahest rank for a non­Indicated, took affe<:t on August 23. Students who had In addition to this dagger hanging over their heads, gola. "We have never made any commissioned Soviet soldier is war­not a.~ of that date been mailed promissory notes by Russo pointed out that the NDSL and BEOG programs secret of the fact that our Soviet rant officer -which was the first their lender will be facing an additional interest pay­have already been seriously reduced and revised by a friends are training our army to help description the South Africans gave ment, called an Origination Surcharge. fiscally conservative Washington. Angola defend its territory," Ambas-of the captured man. 
Russo stated that the surcharge results from the The Basic Grant, soon to be renamed the Pell Grant sador LuisJose d'Almeida said. The SAPA news agency said government's decision to reduce Its intert.Jt payments, has seen both reductions in maximum awards and On Tuesday, South African security forces already had taken six Defense Minister Magnus Malan said 
totalling 12 billion annually, to fall below the 18 per­
See CUTS; page 4 this was the first indication Soviets See RAID, paae 4 
cent level. 

Unpack yourND flags 'cause the band is on the march! (photo by Carl]. Frusbon) 
Block grants 
----~~~--­





News Briep 

Thursday, September 3, 1981 ,.--page 2 
~~~======~==============================~ 
by The ObJerver and The AJJociated PreJJ 
Six more F-16 jet fighters left Pease Air Force Base yester­day for delivery to Israel. In all, 14 ~-16s were bought by Israel. The last four were scheduled to leave today; four left Tuesday. The Reagan administration delayed delivery in response to Israeli military strikes in Iraq and Lebanon. Faulty flight control systems caused further delays.AP 
( 
In an effort to im-prove relations with organized labor, President Reagan is poisedto reaffirm his belief in collective bargaining and deny charges that his is a union-busting administration. But in excerpts from a speech he will deliver today, Reagan defends 
his ftring ofnearly t 12,000 air traffic controllers by drawing a distinc­tion between strikes in private industry and illegal strikes against the government. "Our very freedom is secure because we are a nation governed by laws, not by men," he will tell-the United Brotherhood of Carpenters and Joiners. "We have the means to change laws we find unjust or onerous. We can not as citizens pick and choose laws we will or will not obey." The excerpts were released by White Hous aides yesterday as Reagan headed to Chicago from Los Angeles, where he spent the last several days ofhis four-week vacation. Reagan was to be the star attraction fundraiser in Chicago for the Illinois Republican Party.AP 
A Chinese man trying to present a letter of grievances broke through security ranks and. grabbed former President Jimmy Carter by the wrist Wednesday before he was hustled away, Carter's press secretary said. Carter was visiting a department store in Caoyang, a workers' residential district, when the man rushed up and grabbed him. In a few seconds of running and shouting, Chinese security men punched the intruder ~d dragged him away. Carter, looking unruffled, went on to shake hands with some ofthe hundreds 
ofChinese waiting outside the store to see the man whose administra­tion established diplomatic relations with China in 1979. Press SecretaryJody PoweU said Chinese officials told him the 51-year-old intruder had apparently been seeking redress for alleged persecution suffered during the 1966-76 Cultural Revolution, and had been released after questioning. -AP 
./ 
Sandra D. O'Connor in town a wet>k early to prepare for Senate hearings on her nomination to the Supreme Court, has dis­closed that she and her husband are worth more than n million. In a written response to a Senate Judiciary Committee questionnaire, Mrs. O'Connor endorsed "neutral" enforcement of equal rights and said she is "keenly aware of the problems associated with 'judicial ac­tivism."' Mrs. O'Connor's financial statement listed total assets with her husband of S1.16 miUion and liabilities of 548,000, for a net worth of about $1.11 miUion. Ifconfirmed as expected, she not only would 
become the ftrst woman member ofthe court but would be among its wealthiest members. -AP 
A Purdue University professor predicts the nation's hotel-motel-restaurant industry could lose S2.5 billion this year from a continued strike by air traffic controUers. The industry in 1980 earned about S~S billion, according to Lee M. Kreul ofPurdue's School of Consumer and Family Sciences. He says a survey he con­ducted with the American Hotel and Motel Association indicates a 10 percent canceUation rate so far. The strike by members ofthe Profes­sional Air Traffic ControUers Organization started last month and the 
Reagan administration has ftred concontroUers who walked out. -AP ( 
Rumors that Saint Ma.r}r'S students were deliberately excluded from receiving ticket applications to the Doobie Brothers concert Sunday were incorrect. Students at Saint Mary's pay a student union fee which entitles them to ticket lotteries and other student union events, however the ACC and Jam Produc­tions sponsored Sunday's concert. Student Union President Bill Lawler said the ACC asked the Student Union to include ticket applica­tions to the concert in their Welcome Week letter. "We did it to help the ACC out," Lawler said. Assistant Director ofthe ACC,Joe Sussanno, called the incident an "oversight" and added, "it didn't occur to us to contact anyone at Saint Mary's and no one from Saint Mary's made any contact with us."-The Observer 
Partly sunny today' mild. High around 80. Continued mild tonight. Low around 60. High Friday in mid 70s. -AP 

APPhoto 
Flle 

ALliGATOR HUNT: A ten-foot alltgator is caught and ktlled by trappers, here wttb a hatchet, in the Salt Bayou ofLouisiana af ter the state's alltgator bunting season opened this week. This big gator bad to be shot several times with rifle and pistol before succumbing. 

liBYAN ANNIVERSARY: Libyan leader Col. Moammar Kbadafy, is shown smiling as be stands in an open car wbtle being driven to the green square for celebration of the 12th anniversary ofLibyan revolution. At right is Major Kbwetldi El Hametdi. Kbadafy's reign in Libya bas been linked to worldwide t1->rrorism, and the Arab ruler bas expressed his desire to see the state ofIsrael destroyed. 

REEFER MADNESS: Vance Hinde, ofHomo Sas­sa Springs, Fla., is taken from a U.S. Coast Guard cutter Tuesday after be was taken into custody aboard the 70-foot shrimper "Lady Lynn," which was loaded with 24 tons of marijuana worth about 119 mil/ton. 
BOMBED EMBASSY: American Ambas, sador Edwin G. Corr stands on the bomb damaged porch of the U.S. Embassy in Lima, Peru, after a series of bombings damaged the embassy, the ambassador's residence and four U.S. -connected businesses. No injuries were reported. 

The_Qbs_eryer 
Design Editor ....................... Monica Gugle Design Assistants ....................... Tonia Hap Randy Kentner LayoutStaff........................... Patty Connor Gigi Goltz, Suzanne LaCroix, Steve Abowd Typesetter ....................................... Mike Jans Mws Editor................................... KeUi Flint Copy Editors ...................Tom Melsheimer Pam Degnan Features LayoJl't .............. Anthony Walton Sports Copy Editor ............... Mike Onman Systems Control ................... Bruce Oakley ND Day Editor .....................Jeff Monaghan Ad Design ...... Ferk, Mark, Bob, Mary, etc. Photographer ......................... Carl Frushon Guest Appeara1~ces ...............................Max Mike with the aspirin Lynne 


I I 


One Block South of I 
Memorial Hospital I I 
BanjosGuitars & Accessories Recorders &

Harmonicas Penny Whistles 
Pianos & Organs Sheet Music 
10 ~ OFF EVERYTHING WITH THIS 
AD! 

NO LIMIT 
434 North Main Street -South Bend -233-1838 
-----------------------------~ 


Editorial Board and Department Managers 
Editor-in-Cblef.........................................John McGrath SMC Executive Editor ......:..............Mary Agnes Carey
Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 

Managing Editor ......................................Tom jackman SMC News Editor ................................Kathy Domanico 
The Observer is an independent newspaper published by the students ot the 

Executive News Editor ..............................Lynne Daley PbotoEditor...................................................John Macor
University of Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily 

News Editor .............................................Tim Vercellotti reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported News Editor .......................................................Kelli Flint Business Manager ....................................Rich Coppola as accurately and as objectively as possible. Editorials represent the opinion of a Senior Copy Editor ........................Mary Fran Callahan Controller........................................................]oe Mulfiur majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, opinions, and letters are the views Sports Editor .........................................Michael Onman Advertising Manager ......................................Mark Ellis Features Editor ...........................,.........Anthony Walton Production Manager ..............................Michael Monk 
of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community, and 

Circulation Manager ........................Tom MacLennan
the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letter.s, is encouraged. 

~­
The Observer Thursday, September 3, 1981 -page 3 
Co-ed dorm 
Griffin tnoves to Pasquerllla 

By MICHELE DIETZ 
News Stuff 
Pasquerilla West will soon welcome two new "co-ed" residents to their hall -none other than Fr. Griffin ami his dog. Darby O'Gill. Fr. Griffin, who has been living in Keenan Hall for the past 14 years, Is in the process ofmoving. which will be finished as soon as his furniture, tc:lephone and other belongings are moved ln. 
Fr. David Schlaver, director of Campus Ministry, thought of the idea to have a priest living in a women's dorm and last week asked Fr. Griffin to reside In Pasquerilla West. According to Fr. Griffin, this Is an experiment, although his stay Is not for a "trial period" If all goes well, other experiments may be tried -perhaps a nun living In a men's dorm. 
Priests living In women's dorms Is not altogether new at Notre Dame. Years ago, a priest named Fr. Gartland lived In I.yons, thus being the first "co-ed." Therefore, Fr. Grif­fin will be the second. He will be living in the apartment on the first flm)r of PW, which will retain the residents' privacy. 
Pasquerilla West was picked for this "experiment" simply because they had room and it was con­venient for Fr. Griffin. He also hopes the move might establish a part of the tradition of the hall. Fr. Griffin will be saying daily M:~ss at PW and will be available as a minister to resi­dents. He has no other specific plans yet, saying it is a mistake to go into a hall with a program." I don't want to convert -I will find out what more I can do. I hope it will be aQ enrich­ment to the people who live there." On the other hand, he will still be considered a University chaplain, and is not giving up campus-wide ministry. 
When asked if he has received any objections to the move, Fr. Griffin replied. that women whom he has talked to such as Mrs. Ward, rector at PW, Sr. John Miriam Jones, assistant provost, and SOJ!Ie of the students themselves, have all welcomed the idea. Mrs. Ward, when asked her opinion, said that Fr. Griffin is " an open and loving person and will be an asset to the dorm." 
Fr. Griffin, when asked how he liked the idea ofliving at Pasquerilla West, replied that "it's beautiful." "I have much more room here than at Keenan. The women I've met are very friendly and encouraging. I'm happy to be given the chance to be a part ofthis development. The future of the University lies in coeduca­tion," he commented. When he was asked to take on the position, Fr. Griffin's first reaction was "the dog comes with me. We're a team." So far Darby seems to have adjusted and Fr. Griffin laughed and said " I think Darby will love it." 
The women ofPasquerillaseem to love the idea and are welcoming Fr. Griffin with an ice cream party tonight at 10:30 p.m. Student Kathy Shea ofPW remarked "Fr. Griffin will be a nice touch to the dorm. He's very welcome." Carrie Kirchges­sner, hall vice-president, said, "It's a diversion. With all the rectresses It will be a nice change to have a man 
living here. And the Masses will be 
nice too." 

Anti-abortion 



Conservatives push amendment 

WASHINGTON (AP) ·Senate con­servatives, hoping to hasten a halt to lt:gallznJ abortion.~. are pushing a compromise constitutional amend­ment that would allow each state to set Its own guidelines on when or if a woman would be permitted to end a pregnancy. 
"We are working on something new," said a knowledgeable con­gressional source who asked not to he identifkd. The new proposal, whkh till" source said will be in· troduced by Sen. Orrin llatch(R· Utah), before tht• congressional ren:ss ends Sept. 9, is likely to he<.·ome the focus of the abortion dt·hate this fall, in part because Hatch chairs a Senate Judiciary sub­committee on the Constitution. 
In an appeal to a broad spectrum in Congress, Hatch is trying to turn the issue into a states' rights ques­tion, allowing reluctant senators and House members to avoid a direct vote on abortion. 
Until now, the abortion debate has centered on two competing proposals: a constitutional amend­ment revc:rsing the 1973 Supreme Court ruling that legalized abortions in the first trimester of pregnancy and legislation redefining life as beginning at conception. 
A supreme Court ruling, such as the 1973 abortion decision, can be reversed only by a subsequent ruling of the court or a constitution­al amendment. To take effect, an amendment must be approved by two-thirds of both houses of Congress and 38 ofthe 50 states. 
Abortion is one of several social issues that conservatives, especially those in the Senate, are likely to address now that President Reagan's economic programs have cleared Congress. 
If approved, the new Hatch amendment would take the abortion issue out of the hands of federal judges and give it to state legislatures. 

Through transplant 
Woman regains sight 

SAN  DIEGO  (AP)  - Debra  Her surgeon, Dr. l.ee Todd Nor­ Kramarich's says her goaJ in life is to  
Kramarich, blind since birth, always  dan,  was  present  when  Mrs.  become a registered nurse.  
lovt·d her inf..nt  son  but says "we  Kramarich  saw  another  unforget­ "I want to do something in return  




BOUND FOR MISSOURI -Convtcted spy Christopher Boyce ts led to a watttngplane on bts way to aMtssourlprison. (APLaserpboto) 


'-lAN LINES IS BACK I 


Van lines is back! Starts this Friday 6:00 P ·M· and Saturday 4:00 P·M· Runs til Midnight Get off 
campus--movie, pizza, dinner, shopping. Only 50 c round trip. 
Departs from Main Circle on the hour. Clip out and save complete schedule in Friday's Observer. 


seem so much closer now that I can table sight. for what I got," she said. l<x>k into his eyes." "We were standing on the sixth 
When the surgical bandages were floor at Scripps Hospital, getting removed from her eye, the 28-year­ready to use the Eye Center's old housewife also saw her blind facilities when she stopped and said, husband and exclaimed that he Is 'Wow, that must be a sunset,"' he 
"ju.~t a.~ handsome as I always said. thought he was." Mrs. Kramarich, her husband, All her life, Mrs. Kramarlch saw Charles, and the baby, who has nor­
Talk about good food which ·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·-~·-·.·.·;·-·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·. Jeno's homemade pasta and 
the world as it might appear through mal vision, live In Normal Heights, 
wea!lli~etodonowandthen.Visit Dining out sauces are superb-Canneloni 
an opaque shower curtain. As a Calif. She credits a visit to the doc­
Jeno s R1storante and Garden Pallo -:,:::::-:·:-:·:<:>:·:-:·:·:-:::::::-:-:·.·>:-:-:·:::::,:::-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-: f1renza topped w1th a heavy cream, child, one of her eyes was removed. tor's office for the baby as leading to 
at 512 So. Spring St., Mishawaka. arbor fu~th~r aclds ~~ the outdoor cheese and butter sauce. Fettuccine 
She was legally blind. her "miracle." 
You'll have something to talk about. beauty of the garden. Alfredo DiRoma homemade noo· 
But In May, she and her eye sur­Doctors had told her repeatedly 
You'll also understand why The patio is furnished with dies in a rich cream and butter 
geon decided to gamble on a cornea there was no hope she could regain 
this fine restaurant is so highly colorful vinyl covered padded sauce. Ravioli Della Coso home-
rated. Why they have been selected benches and tables -each with a made small square of dough with a
transplant and cataract removal to sight in the eye, but she took an eye 
bl. · br,·ghtly colored umbrella over· filling of tangy cheeses and beef
reverse the effects of Peter's Anoma­exam with her son, anyway. The 
by various pu 1cahons. head. topped with a delicious tomato meat
ly, a congenital deformity that leaves doctor discovered that the back of 
This acclaim does not come 

The bac-kground Italian music sauce. Anyone of the 18 different
sears in the eye's central field of vi· her eye was still healthy, so a new 
lightly. Quite simply they offer 

lends to the European atmosphere. pasta are a treat to the palate.
slon. cornea could restore her sight. 
excellent food which is primarily 

The inside dining room is The many varieties of chicken,
Had the operation failed, she But the gift ofvision has not come 
Italian, exciting variety, friendly 

decorated in a 1930's motif and veal and beef ore a real delicacy.
would have been plunged Into total without painful moments. 
service with a pleasant casual 

features a metal covered ceiling. Your dmner includes Jeno's
darkness for the rest ofher life. "People's attitudes about things 
atmosphere. 

Photographs of Old Mishawaka line bountiful salad bar of twelve freshly 
One day after receiving a cornea show on their faces so much," Mrs. 
rhe outside garden patio is a the walls on two sides with original made salads, garlic toost and fresh
from an 18-year-old dead woman, Kramarich said. "To watch the ex­
picturesque dining area with its oil paintings among them. The bock crisp lettuce with a dressing of your
the bandages came off. She saw her pressions on people's fa 
beautiful rose garden. The focal wall holds photographs of Jeno's choice. 

9-monthold son, Ryan. "Our little they see that my husband's totally 
point of the patio is a lovely fountain family from Italy.. 

hoy -people used to tell us about blind. 
with a three cherub statue. There is Each table in the dining room The meals are delicious. Am­
all the cute thing..~ he wa.~ doing.. I "Some have pitying looks and 
another fountain pool with an ever is covered with a bright checked ple portions are served at reasona­ble prices. One must hove room,
changing pattern and more fragrant cloth and has a candle as its however, for one of the fabulous 
never could see those cute things, some look away. I'm probably bot­
flowers planted tastefully around centerpiece. Spacious oak chairs desserts. 

and now I sec all of them. That's the hered most by looks of pity. Charles 
the garden. Large shade trees complete the warm comfortable

biggest joy ofall," she said. is not to be pitied. My husband has to 
provide cool protection from the atmosphere of the indoor dining Visit Jeno's soon for a meal warm summer sun. A natural grape area that you will talk about. 
"The thing that surprised me most be one of the most Independent 
_______________ aid Advertisement ______________..
wa.o; how mes..o;y my house was," she people going.. He does better with· 
0 

said with a laugh. "Before, I could out sight that I do with my new Ignore it. Now I have to clean It once sight." In a while." Now that she has sight, Mrs. 


-....-----­
-
The Observer 

Thursday, September 3, 1981 -page 4 

Many clubs recruited new members atSMC Activi,ties Night in An­gela AthleticFacility Wednesday. (photo by Carl]. Frushon) 
continuedfrom page 1 
changes in distribution formulas. 

Russo explained that the BEOG used to be adjusted so that families were not greatly penalized for small increases in income. Now however, with that adjustment postponed, a slight family ,raise could actually result in less funds for a college education. 
Nationally, besides an increase in interest rates, the NDSL program was slashed by almost one-third, from $286 to S186 million. Accord­ing to Russo, this reduction has primarily affected new applicants to the program: freshmen and up­perclass students receiving aid for the flrst time. 
Russo stated that Notre Dame lost one-third ofits new NDSL funds this year, cutting one-fourth of the Uni­versity's lending power, which comes both from new funds and col­lections. 
... Cuts 
With budget cutslikely for at least the next four years, Russo indicated that he was unsure what the future of federal aid to students would be. He saw consolidations of similar programs possible, for instance be­tween the two loan programs or the Basic Grant and Supplemental Educational Opportunity Grant. 
Russo concluded that this, the first year of Reagan reductions was "a very long Spring", and ack­nowledged that there were "many 
fine,  eligible  students  that ·'we  at  
Financial  Aid  simply  could  not  
help."  

. Grants 
continuedfrom page 1 



"There is a perception that to a large degree, state legislatures are insensitive to the needs ofcities and the problems ofthe disadvantaged," said Hudnut, currently president of the National League ofCities. "If the participation of the legislature were constructive, I'd be all for it." 
Hatcher agreed, saying, "We have great difficulty convincing the state legislature that Gary and Lake County are actually part of the state ofIndiana. As a general proposition, they are treated as a foreign country that should be avoided at all costs." 
Both mayors acknowledged that Orr has appointed task forces to make the transition to block grants. 
... Raid 
continuedfrom page 1 
Soviet T-34 tanks out of Angola, more than l 00 vehicles made in communist countries and dozens of anti-aircraft guns. The Defense Department said it confiscated hundreds of tons of small arms and ammunition. 
South African forces launched the four-pronged attack Aug. 24, 60 miles into Angola, and claimed to have killed at least 400 Angolan sol­diers and SW APO guerrillas and knocked out radar and anti-aircraft installations. 
Lt. Gen. )annie Geldenhuys told journalists that less than half of the people killed during the operation were SWAPO members. He said the other dead were "most probably An­golan soldiers." 

An estimated 20,000 Cuban troops now stationed in Angola arrived in 1975 war to help the 
-Popular Movement for the Libera­
tion ofAngola win power in the civil 

war that followed Portugal's deci­
sion  to  give  the  colony indepen­ 
dence.  
On  Monday,  the  U.S.  

representative to the United Nations vetoed a Security Council resolution condemning the South African at­tack. The reason given was that the resolution did not extend criticism to the Cuban and Soviet presence. 
LIFE IN THE SPIRIT A sharing by members f of the Notre Dame t t Charismatic ~ 
Prayer Group t t about what God is t t doing in the lives of t t _ people today Tonight New Time 
6:30 ~!!b~!r~unge 
------~----~-----­

Students sue 

Thursday, September 3, 1981-page 5 




Insurance suits pending 
Robert M. Marovich 
News Staff 
Two separate law suits are pen­ding in the U.S. Supreme Court concerning alleged insurance fraud in students' policies 
According to the July, 1980 Issue of Life Association News, an in­surance company handling clients promised a client In Alabama that his first year ofcoverage was free. At the close of the year of coverage, the company explained to the client that he had only borrowed the 
money for the first year and therefore had to submit payment. 
The client sought legal help, ap­
pealed the case, and reappealed. The 
case of Perry versus Fidelity Union 
Life Insurance Company quickly en­
tered jurisdiction of .the U.S. 
Supreme Court 
Another case involved Cochran 
versus Paco. The insurance com­
pany allegedly forced the client to 
borrow the premium payments 
from an outside finance company. 
The action wa.o; considered by the 
Federal Trade Commission to be in 
direct violation of rulings concern_­
ing borrowing rights of Insurance companies "Such practices are unprofes­sional, unethical," explained Judith 
A. McNitt, a South Bend insurance agent and 1977 graduate of Notre. Dame. "Agents are misrepresenting policies, not explaining them dlrect­
.ly enough. Many students are being lied to by agents." 
McNitt said that there are 1900 life insurance companies In the U.S., thus making a policy hard to compare. She added that many com-· panics are trying to lure the college student into ~ mail-in policy which promises a "guaranteed Issue" or coverage regardless of health condi­tion. Consequently, a student who Is in good physical condition may pay larger premiums to balance the average of those clients who are considered risky. 
McNitt outlined several questions a prospective client should ask his agent: 
Upon request, the student should be given the number of years of service the company has offered, the number of states they arc licensed in, and the names of the states they are not licensed ln. Some states have rigid regulations governing In­surance tactics and It Is best to be certain that the agency In question Is not being excluded from those states. 

A client should know how well a company has performed on the pay­ment ofdividends and the manner In which they are paid. 
Finally, an agent should be able to quote his company's AM BEST rating. A reputable company wlll have a rating of A or A plus. An agency rating lower should be care­fully considered by a student looking for a life Insurance policy. 
McNitt concludt·d that a clknt has the right to have the policy studied by another agent or a lawyer. "Too many agents try to intimidate young­er policy clients In an effort to t.·on­ceal faults within tht· policy." 
A pamphlet on detecting fraudulent Insurance policies Is available at no charge by writing: 
Indiana Department of Insurance 
Consumer Services Division 
Room S09, State Office Building 
Indianapolis, Indiana 46204. 
The space shuttle Columbia prepares for its October 9 liftoff The flight will mark the first lime a spacecraft bas been reused. (AP Photo) 
Indiana court finds liquor laws adequate 
INDIANAPOUS (AP) -Durin~ a n~ hdd yesterday at Marion :ounty Municipal Court Judge n V. Frank said he thought In­lana's liquor enforcement laws adequate. In his court In ·"''T'llw·..v, Frank said the majority of he handles are for drunken 
Frank said he doesn't believe the laws need to be changed. In fact, he 
the new law whkh requires a jail term for a second or subsequent conviction for drunken drivln~ Is a ~ood stt•p. That law took effect Tues­day. 
Instead of focusing on changes in the: law, the judge said the state should place more emphao;is on education, particularly in the areas ofdrunken driving. 
"The American public doesn't 
think it's bad to drink and drive. 
Americans think it's bad to drink and 
run over somebody," he said. 
Harry Dempsey, business repre­
sentative for Local 716 of the Teamsters union in Indianapolis, urged the committee to recommend a bill setting up protected selling ter­ritories for beer wholesalers. The current practice ofout-of-town beer haulers delivering in the ln­.dianapolis market "has jeopardized 
many (Teamster) jobs," he said. 
Although transshippers wholesalers who deliver beer across county lines -can give a retailer a cheaper price, Dempsey com­plained that the savings isn't passed atmig to the cus10mer. 
"I'm cheating the public if I sell it at not a lesser rate than the basis I bought it," Dempsey said. "After all, this is who the law Is supposed to support, the consumer." 
Orientation '81 

Committee plans 
By MARY FRAN CALLAHAN 
~en tor Copy Editor 
Freshman Orientation Activities are not yet completed, for Saturday, Sept. o; brings the first "Frosh Field Day" to the class of'8'5. 
The event, sponsored by the Orientation Committee, will take place from 1-'5 p.m. and can best be described as an assortment of "athletic" events. Basketball, vol­leyball, tug-of-war, three-legged and sack races will take place on Green Field, White Field, Stepan Center and in the Rock. , 
Freshmen, however, will register 
;It 12: I o; p.m. at Stepan and then be 
divided into Blue and Gold teams. 
The two teams will compete against 
each other in the various events and 
gradually move from the fields to the 
Rodl. Participating players should 
then plan on spending the entire af­
ternoon as the event is geared 
toward.'> this arrangment. 
Following the games, freshmen will attend the "Frosh Field Day Ban­quet," according to Nina DiLeone, Orientation chairman. The group will meet for dinner in the South Dining Hall at which time mock awards will be presented to top con­tenders in the various events. 
Ms. DiLeone said the event was planned in efforts "to stir class spirit. Orientation has been the same thing 

Runner's high 

Exercise acts as pain killer 
BOSTON (AP) -Hard exercise increases levels of a natural, narcotic-like pain killer in the blood, a finding that might explain the eup­
horia  that  joggers  call  "runner's  
high," doctors say.  
The  finding,  though  still  

speculative, bolsters claims that dai­ly running can be addictive. Runners complain of feeling out of sorts if they miss a day ofexercise, and they may actually be experiencing withdrawal.symptoms. 
The study, conducted at Massac­husettes General Hospital, found that levels of naturaUy produced chemicals, called endorphins, rise dramatically when people exercise. These proteins, released by the brain and pituitary gland, help the body control pain and perform a number ofother jobs. 
. The new study was authored by Dr. Daniel B. Carr and other resear­chers and published in Thursday's issue of the New England journal of Medicine. The doctors measured endorphins In seven female volun­teers who did not exucise regularly. For eight weeks they worked out an hour a day. Over this time they built 



Field Day 
every year. It needed new blood," she commented. Interested freshmen should report to Stepan Center at 12: 1'5 
p.m. Saturday regardless of weather. In case of inclement weather, alternative arrangments shall be made. 
Ms. DiLeone said freshman class t· shirts are now available and will go on sale in the dining halls this week. 

up the level of their exertion as they ran, did exercises and rode station­ary bicycles. The researchers took 
'blood saples from the women before they started exercising and again af. ter one hour. Levels of endorphins rose substantially each time they worked out. But the Increases were most dramatic after the women had begun regular training. 
After two months oftraining, their endorphin levels jumped 145 per­cent after an hour ofexercise. Then the amounts gradually returned to normal. 
"The basic speculation we have to make Is that our measurement of blood Is an index of something that Is happening In the brain," Carr said "That's a very big leap, because In many ways, the brain is insulated from the blood." 
But If these chemicals are ac­cumulating in the brain, he said, "It 

may explain In part why people don't seem to notice Injuries during strenuous exercise. It might explain why people's mood Improves If they do strenuous exercise regularly or the feel badly If they are used to ex­ercise and have to stop." 
Joggers frequently speak of "runner's high" and say they feel un­settled If they don't get their dally "fix" ofexercise. "A lot ofrunners report It," said Dr. Lyle Micheli, head of sports medicine at Children's Hospital Medical Center In Boston. "It apparently comes after running 50 to 60 minutes and doing It consis­tently. It's a feeling ofwell-being and euphoria." 
Carr said that even though his en­dorphin findings were tantalizing. this single body chemical cannot ex­plain the phenomenon alone, since many hormonal changes occur when people exercise. 
Il:iUBSQAY ~lsH:H fiLM SERlE 
4 ..111 
Thursday, September 3 

The P'urlee Paramount 1950 (109 min.) Barbara Stanwyck and Waiter Huston star in director An­thony Mann's emotional tale of a Western empire. From a screenplay by Charles Schnee. Music by Franz Waxman 
MUSEUM OF ART 
7:30pm admission $1.00 sponsored by the ND-SMC ~~COMMUNICATION & THEATRb.m~:S 

join the Notre Dame Debate Co ---·-..­

com pete in debate and individual speech events 
travel to other colleges blic Organizational 
Meeting Thursday, September 
WASH. HALL AUD. 7:00 or call Brother Doran. at 


------~~------~--~ 
The Observer Thursday, September 3, 1981 -page 6 
Defend decision 



Soviets bar Jew-ish books 


MOSCOW (AP) -The Soviet Union opened its third international book fair yesterday with officials defending their decision to bar the display of a handful of books on Jewish themes. 
Many other books on Judaism 
were appro\Ced for display, however. 
Large crowds of Soviet citizens 
poured into lthe two huge exhibition 
halls in north Moscow, where 
160,000 books from 86 nations 
were displayed. Several publishers 
said books from their stands had dis­
appeared during preparations of the 
fair, and police were checking those 
leaving to prevent theft. 
The fair, with the motto "Books at the Service of Peace and Progress," has been proclaimed by Soviet offi­cials as proof of their nation's sup­port of international cultural exchanges. Most of the more than 2,300 participating book firms have suffered no political difficulties. 
But officials barred the American Association of Jewish Publishers from displaying one volume of"The History of the Jews" by former Is­raeli Foreign Minister Abba Eban and the "1981 American Jewish Yearbook." 
Sources said the Israel Export In­stitute was barred from showing "The History of the Jewish Nation" by Shmul Ettinger and that an uni­dentified European publisher was 
told not to show a book on the Third 
Reich. 
Ramaz Mchedlidze, chief of the 
Soviet "panel of experts" that rules 
on books to be displayed, noted in 
an interview with The Associated 
Press that fair rules bar any book that 
insults the sensibilities of a par­
ticipating nation, harms public 
morals or advocates national or ra­
cial"exclusivity." 
He said the Eban book includes 
"Zionist propaganda" and a claim 
there is anti-Semitism in the Soviet 
Union, that the Jewish Yearbook has 
"slander against Soviet authorities," 
that the "History of the Jewish Na­
tion" distorts the Soviet view ofJews 
and the Israeli people and that the 
Third Reich book praises the Nazi 
economic and political system. 
Hundreds of other books on 
Judaism andJewish themes were ap­proved for display, and fair officials said these included other books by Eban. 

The last Moscow book fair, in 1979, drew worldwide attention af­ter authorities refused to display foreign works including a history of the Soviet secret police, the anti­totalitarian novels ofGeorge Orwell, and a collection of Western poster 
art. 
Western displays at the current 
fair emphasize scientific and techni­
cal literature. A U.S. publisher, who 
asked not to be identified, said 
American firms were at the fair 
mainly to sell books to the Soviet 
Union rather than to other nations 
attending. 
The fair runs through Sept. 8. On 

Sept. 14, the Association of American Publishers and the Fund for Free Expression -a human 
rights group -will sponsor a counter-fair at the New York Public Library. It will be called the Third Moscow Book Fair Reception in Exile, and its goal will be to honor Soviet writers who have emigrated or been exiled from Russia 
seniORS--last chance 
Nazi boss 

Speer dies of stroke 
LONDON (AP)-Albert Speer, the Nazi slave-labor boss who spurred German war production despite massive Allied air raids, died during a visit to London, the city blitzed by the bombs and rockets of the war machine he ran. He was 76. 
Speer, whose post-war memmrs provided the most detailed account of the inner working of the Third Reich;md made him a rich man, died Tuesday ofan apparent stroke. 
The man who once said he was "mesmerized" by Adolf Hitler and served him as chief architect and production chief, was in Britain for a television interview with the British Broadcasting Corp. 
After recording the first segment of the interview Tuesday morning, Speer returned to London's Park Court Hotel, where he collapsed in the afternoon. He was taken uncon­scious to St. Mary's Hospital and died there at 8:30 p.m., the hospital said. The BBC said Speer was being inter­viewed for a documentary about Hitler's proposed cultural center in the dictator's hometown of Linz, Austria. Speer, the project's chiefar­chitect, was questioned by Cambridge University historian Nor­man Stone, who said the ex-Nazi "showed no sign ofstrain." 
Speer, who engineered Hitler's rise to power and later put his or­ganizational skills to work running the Third Reich's enormous in­dustrial complex, was convicted by the Nuremberg War Crimes tribunal in 1946 ofcrimes against humanity. 
Describedat Nuremberg as one of 
Hitler's "closest personal con-

HERTZ 
ECONOMY FARES WEEKENDS FROM 8 16.gg A DAY 
234-3712 at Airport 232-5871 Downtown 
These Economy Fares are Touring Rates, subject to change without notice and non-discountable. There are no minimum day and advance reservation requirements, but restrictions on when 
and a
where cars -4W 

must be returned. Gas is not Included. Call Hertz for details. 
WHERE WINNERS qENT.
HERTZ_BENTS FgA_Q§..AND O'THEA£1NE_C~_AS 
fidants," Speer was conv;cted for his expansion of the slave labor system, using civilians from occupied countries to power the Nazi war machine. The only senior Nazi to ad­mil responsibility for his crimes, Speer served a 20 year sentence at Spandau Prison in West Berlin. 
Speer was born March 19, 1905, the son of a prominent architect in Mannheim. As a young architect in 1931, two years before Hitler rose to power, Speer joined the Nazi Party and rose quickly through the ranks on the basis of his expertise in organizing the giant rallies that marked Hitler's ascension. 
While still in his 20s, Speer was given the task of designing a new Berlin, complete with a quarter­mile-long marbled chancellery, that was to reflect Hitler's view of Nazi grandure. Like most of the dictator's other projects, the Berlin develop­
ment was stalled when Germany 
invaded Poland on Sept. 1, 1939, 
starting World War II. 
Three years into the war, Speer became Hitler's minister for ar­manents. Under his leadership, Ger­man aircraft production rose from 12,400 planes in 1941 to 45,000 in 1944 despite round-the-clock Allied bombing of German manufucturing centers. 
I I 
--~----~---~-----------~---­


..---------------­
Features 
Thursday, September 3, 1981 -page 7 
Beyond the glass doors 

Donald Schmid 
knows because we were in togethe
"Don't sit between the door and the last time. I feel more confidenc
the patient. If you block an angry In her than my husband or my mot
patient's escape route, you may end up on the floor. And another thing, 
her," she said. let the patient decide where the In· 
"Maybe you feel closer to her be terview will take place. It gives them 
cause you have gone through th a feeling of control and they'll open 
same experiences and your bus· up more. And make sure they think 
band, I assume, hasn't?" you're a dumb college kid that 
"He just got home. He ain't gon doesn't know anything. Let them tell 
through nothln'. He's been gone fo _you tht· answers. You may know 
six months. He just picked up an more than they do about confiden­
walked out. That's what ended me tiality, but they have the information 
up In here the first time." you need." This was the last set of 
"You were pretty upset about that?"
instructions from Dr. Applebaum, one of the psychiatrists who had 
"He really don't understand not­ht:lpc;d me develop my research 
bin' that's going on In here. So I real· project. "And one final thing, don't 
ly couldn't put no trust and no sit on the patient's bed, even if you 
nothln' into him about anything that have to leave and get a chair. That 
was goln' on here. I don't kow how bed Is the only thing the patients can 
to say It, but he's really not a good t·all their own here In the hospital. 
person, to put these things on to." <;ood luck." 
"What does he do?" Driving along the Pennsylvania 
"He joined the Army," she said. Turnpike, I thought about the com· 
"Before that, we were a janitor! ing nine weeks that I would spend at 
couple. It wa5 good money. We got a psychiatric hospital. I had never 
six dollars an hour apiece. That wa. even visited that kind of "hospital" 
good money." before. No one in my family had ever 
She was curious about me, and I 
woman who had b~en in and out of

bc:en in one; at least my parents had less convulsion. I didn't want to look As the summer wore on, I still felt told how I had been given the 
mental hospitals for thirty years. Her 

never told me about any relatives at him, but soon I realized that I was guarded and out of place on the chance to do research at the hospi·
chart said, "paranoid schizophrenic,

like that. In any case, no one ever staring at. him. It was as if I had ward, but some of the patients 1had tal. I also told her about the cock· chronic." She was more nervous
"visited" someone in a "psychiatric sneaked into a freak show. I felt sorry interviewed began to say hello and toaches in my apartment a few 
than I was, yet she told me about the 
ask me how my research was going.

hospital." Those words touched off for him because he wasn't normal blocks from the hospital. After­
institutions where she had been 
When I gave once guy a copy of the

images of an enormity shaped most· like me. Still looking through the wards, I kept thinking, "What's 
treated. "I like it here. This is my fifth

ly by Jack Nicholson and "One Flew glass wall, I realized some of the consent form he had signed the pre· wrong with this girl?" She seemed so 
time being here. At first I didn't like

Over The Cuckoo's Nest." I didn't patients were looking back at me. vious day, he put his arm around me normal to me. Just an ordinary per·
it when they locked the front doors; 

and said, "God bless you, you didn't with
expect to find the abuse ddepicted in The TV room was empty when I son some tough problems
it took me until this time to rea'lize

that movit' because I knew I was sat down to interview my first sub­forget al:lout us." All of the sudden, I facing her. I made a point of visitingthat it was for my protection. I think 
wasn't afraid to smile around them her whenever I was on the ward. We going to one of the best psychiatric ject. The attending psychiatrist had 
it Is great that I can walk from one 

anymore. became friends, and we are still Inresc:arch centers in the country. But told me that this patient was due to 
end of the hall to the other. But one 
woman me to touch.

I did expect to find the same weird be discharged soon and was "very One asked come 
time at Mayview, I woke up with my 
back after dinner so

people padng aimlessly in hospital slightly psychotic." What did that that I could It's been a few months now since 
feet tied to the end of the bed and

He a meet her fiance. I did and the three I've a
whites. These people would be men· mean? was huge man with interviewed patient at the 
my hands tied to the bed and I had to 

of us talked for awhile. They held are
tally ill; something had gone haywirt: large, rongh hands. Hands that could hospital. My analyses finished 
go to the bathroom and go number

In their heads whkh made them un­crush my skull in a rage. With my hands as t~ey told _!!!..e how they and the papers have been written. I 
one, you know, P-I·S·S. I had to do It

to were a little nervous about getting still wonder how they're all doing.
prt·dktable and even dangerous. voice stammering, I began ex­
in the bed. I called nurses, nurses.

I remember fumbling with my key plain the research that I was doing. married. As my work went on, I was They opened their lives to me, and 
Nobody came to untie my feet." 

to opt·n tht· reinforced glass doors of He didn't have his glasses, so I read surprised at how these people for that I will not forget them. It's 
She told me about her son, and her

the schizophrenic ward and imagin· the consent form, which he signed~ I would let me into their lives. Some funny, because even though I knew 
husband; I told her about my 

had very tragic stories to tell. 1 it was time to move on to othering a patient lunging through them. His responses to my questions were 
brother, and my grandfather. We

The doors safely locked, I took slow and deliberate. He was probab· remember talking to a twenty-year­things, I remember how hard It was 
laughed together. 

old girl who had been married for to say good-bye and walk throughEach time that I walked onto the
refuge in the nurse's station set off ly full ofsome anti-psychotic drug, I 
thought. I finished the interview, five years. She told me that her hus­those doors for the last time. 
from the ward with more reinforced 
ward, I knew the patients were 
band had left her twice.

glass. I stared nervously at the thanked him, and escaped through 
watching me. They were always ask· 

"Have you been here for awhile?" Donald St:bmid, an economicspatients who walked by the glass the heavy glass doors. I knew I 
ing me for a light because smoking

walls. hadn't asked the right follow-up I asked. and pbtlospby major from Grosse 
was restricted. If they could get a

I kept thinking about a boy I saw questions, but I had gotten through "I've been here for about a month Pointe, Michigan, recieved a Mel/on
light, they could smoke. I guess the

when my father took me to a the interview without getting him now and three months the last fellowship for study and research at staffdidn't want anyone to burn the 
time." the Western Ps_ycbiatrlc Institute
baseball game. I was seven years old. upset. 
place down. Some of the patients

The boy's head kept bobbing up and There were more interviews to do "Who knows you're here?" and Clinic, Pittsburgh, PA, this past 
down, his arms and legs wouldn't and I returned the next day with my played ping pong or read the "My husband knows, but my ·summer. This is his first contrlbu· newspapers. Some just sat in a chair, 
keep still, his body writhed in end· tape recorder. I sat down with an old girlfriend knows more than he tion to tbe Features Page. 

Quality Explosion: Too good to be true? 
Paul Kosidowski 
Catholics Into our Intellectual
smart and out / for blood. Achieve-foreign to us. Our executives will no diversity that could put Notre Dame
They're here again. With the forum.
ment drips from them like over­longer be able to communicate with back on its feet again. Changes In the

perennial certainty of taxes, ob· There arc other benlfits besides
dabbed Brylcream. I am reminded of their secretaries, much less with the curriculum would be necessary, but

noxious suntans and bow's your this altruistic ego boost. Think of
this every year as more wheat and people who clean their offices. courses in Gang Warfare and

summer? they return. I thought the 
what a few illegal aliens could do for
less chaff Is admitted to Notre Dame. Cabbies won't understand us. En· Weapons for Fun and Profit should

university policy might have our Modern Language Department!
The Admissions Office probably counters with religious fanatics in prove a welcome respite from the

changed after last -¥ear's Also, the conversion of Haggar Hall
spends millions calculating how airports will cause us severe emo· strategy and history courses now of·

catastrophes, but my hopes were into a minimum security detention 
many lettermen, class presidents tiona! and psychological trauma fered in the Military Science Depart· 

dashed against the rocks of the Grot· facility could secure a large federal 
and prom queens we are blessed to Ordering lunch from the deli down ment. Such a program could put the

to when I saw a group of thirty of grant under the new prison laws.
receive each year. the street will become impossible. Fighting Irish back on the map as the

them standing In a huddled mass, With this we could Integrate
I call this phenomenon The Domers will become so isolated by collegiate melting pot of America

chemistry booh clutched like prisoners into the university com·
Quality Explosion and, In the their culture that, upon graduation, with the dome serving as our own

Bibles, jaws scraping the pavement munlty and help control those spe·
America of the '80s, it Is to be ex­they will be forced to live in huge Statue ofLiberty, beckoning peoples

and eyes staring -just staring -at clal campusdisciplinary problems as
pected. The higher GPA's fit right In· alumni camps where they will make ofall backgrounds to come and reap

tht· dome. The freshmen were here. well.
to the scheme of the never-ending, fictional Investment decisions, run 1 the rich harvest of opportunity and
At first, I almost fell for the help­So how about it Domers. Let'sred white and blue quest for faster for their own political offices and 1 advancement.

less and lost act. Their naive ques· think up some cute slogans, make a
cars, tastier burgers and softer toilet watch football highlight films. Once the foundation is es·

tlons were asked so nicely and few signs and get ourselves back Into 
paper. However, we are going, and W1: can amend our ways, though. tablished and the initial shock Is

politely that my paternal instincts the protest spirit again. Some of us
indeed may have gone, too far. The Quality Explosion Is net irre· over, Our Lady's call can be ex·

took over and my ego soared. I of· ~ may be out ofpractice after that long
There Is just so long we can remain a versible and an emergency program tended to many others. The streets

fered them advice, help on summer on the beach, but lets show
"breed of' powerful humans (with aimed at homogenizing ourselves are full of people who, like us, are

homework and late night snacks at them that-we don't need a big timer
concessions to ERA) in powerful with the outside world could, with a more than willing to sleep through a

the Huddle; then one of them like Reagan to bring out the best in 1
positions" If there Is no one to step little help from the man upstairs, few classes each day in exchange for

showed up In a etas.~ of mine, a 400 our creative activism. Remember,
on In our climb to the top. If we save us from certain doom. the generous accomodatlons of

level class, one tried to sell me his when you're walking home late
eliminate the dregs of society from What we need Is a cultural affirma-food, shelter and recreation that we

books from high school, and finally I some night In the Inner city and an 
campus we will not only be forced tlve action program aimed at groups, are provided here at the Hilton Head 

caught one of them studying armed stranger wants your wallet,
to pit superperson against superper· so long Ignored by our admissions of the midwest. Think of what It

oberl's Rules ofOrder to find a way your B.A. in History won't do you
son, but we wiU also lose all means of staff A large scale exchange would do for our image ifwe would 

to remove me from hall government much good -unless of course you
Interacting with the outside world. program with the residents ofa mid· welcome drug-addicts, muggers,

for Immoral practices. That made It sat next to him In Calculus class. 
The blue-collar lan~age ofthe com· western state penitentiary could auto-mechanics and even a few non·

aU come back to me. These folks are mon city dweUer will become provide a firm foundation ofcultural 
L------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------_j 
• 

The Observer Thursday, September 3, 1981 -page 8 

-
~O~~L~~~r~i=e~=S===============T=h=~=~=a=~=s~~k~cr3,1981-~F9 
by The Obsat•t•r .tnu Tht• A.rrociated Prnr 
Football ticket distribution continues today. 

All Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students who purchased season foot­ball tickets during the summer and as ofyet have not picked them up, should report to the ticket windows at Gate 3 of the Athletic and Convocation Center according to the following schedule. Distribu­tion today Is for sophomores, graduate and law students. Tom~rrow, freshmen will be able to pick up their tickets. The ticket windows will be open from 8 a.m. until '5 p.m. including the noon hour. The Gate 3 doors ofthe ACC will be open at 7:30a.m. The football ticket commit­tee reminds students that the seats In the student section have NOT been preassigned by the Ticket Office. Therefore, if a student wishes to sit with a specific classmate, they must present their IDs together for adjacent seating. t No student may present inure than four IDs.Band members should check with band officials regarding ticket distribu­tion procedures. Married students who purchased tickets during the summer should report to the ACC with their respective class on the scheduled day. When picking up their tickets, they must present evidence of their marital status. Any student who has not filled out a 1981 student football ticket application must have done so by '5 p.m. Monday. Since the June 21 deadline has passed, ticket availability will be on a conditional basis. -The Observer 
Tryouts for the SaintM~'s volleyball team c?n· elude this afternoon In the Angela Athletic Facility. The final ses.'iton begins at 4 p.m. All students arc encouraged to tryout. For more in­formation, contact Erin Murphy, Director ofAthletics and Recreation, 4479. -The Observer 
Sign-ups have begun for two new intr~mur~l ac­

tivities -co-ree water polo and outdoor volleyball. Entrtes wtll be accepted at the NVA office until W cdnesday (Sept. 9 ). -The Obseroer The Ultimate Frisbee Club meets dally at 3:3o 
p.m. on the Notre Dame library field. Newcomers are always welcome. -The Obseroer 
Notre Dame's fencing team wm hold it.s or­ganizational meeting tonight at 7 p.m. in Room 411 ofthe Admlntstra­tion Building. All members of last year's varsity team should attend. For more Information, call Rich at 8981. -The Obseroer 
Notre Dame's Rugby Clubwm hold an organiza­
tional meeting tonight at 7:30" p.m. in the LaFortune Ballroom. New players are encouraged to attend. For more information, contact Club President Nick Colarelli at 289-3022. -The Observer 
The Boxing Clubwill hold an informational meeting for novices on Monday (Sept. 7) at 4 p.m. In the boxing room in the ACC. Practice will begin Tuesday at the same time and place. All students are urged to attend. -The Observer 
A women's golf team could be in the maktng for Notre Dame. Women interested in this possibility are urged to attend an organizational meeting today. For information on time and place, call jim Rogers at 3234. -The Observer 


a-nd.... 

NATIONAL LRACIUR 
1.­ 
w  L  
St. Louis  13  7  
Mon1reel  12  9  
Chicago  11  12  
New Yort<  11  12  
•·Philadelphia  8  14  
Pittsburgh  7  17  
w...  
Houston  IS  8  
•·Loa Angeles  14  9  
San Francisco  13  9  
Atian1a  13  10  
Cincinnati  11  11  
San Diego  7  17  
•·first haij champiOns  

Ya81-*J'elleeulle 

St. Louis 5, Slln Francisco 2 
Atlan1a 3. Philadelphie 2 
Cincinnati 7, Montreal 0 
Houston 8. New York 0 
San Diego 5, Chicago 4 
Los Angeles 6, Pittsburgh 2 Todey'eo.M• 
l'ct.  011  
.650  
.571  1.5  
.471  3.5  
.471  3.5  
.364  6  
.292  8  
.652  
.609  ' 
.591  1.5  
.585  2  
.500  3.5  
.292  8.5  


Pittsburgh (Scurry 3-5) at San Diego (Eichelberger 6-5) Ch1cago (Martz 4-6) a< San Francisco (Alexander 7-5) 
Houston (Ruhle 2·3) at Montreal (Sanderson 7-4), n Cincinnati (Berenyl6-4) at Philadelphia (Noles 0-1 ), n St. Louis (Martinez 2-5) at Los Angeles (Hooton 9-5), 
n 

Only games scheduled 
Tomorrow'• Gemee Houston at Montreal, n Atlanta at New York, n 
Cincinnati at Philadelphia, n Pittsburgh at San Diego, n St. Louis at Los Angeles. n 
Chicago at San Francisco, n 
AMERICAN LEAQUE 
Eaet 

w  L  l'ct.  o•  
Detron  15  8  .652  
BaltimQre  13  9  .591  1.5  
Boston  12  10  .545  2.5  
Milwaukee  13  11  .542  2.5  
x-NewYork  12  11  .522  3  
Cleveland  12  12  .500  3.5  
Toronto  10  11  .476  4  

See SPORTSBOAKD, page 14 
---------·------------·­
----~­-----­Classifieds return the wallet. You have my ID so you MORE. 9 MONTH OR 1 YR. LEASE should have no problem II you so choose $100 DEPOSIT. 289·0103. c-· NOTICES to anonomously return fUSt the empty wal­let. I leave it to you: it's 1n your hands now. I NEED TWO GA TIX FOR USCIIII WILL Please at least return the ID. Even II I PAY MEGABUCKSIII PLEASE CALL MORRISSEY LOAN FUND could, I'm not about to pay $4.451or that BETH AT 283-4236. Studen11oans. $20-$200. 1 par cent Inter­crap at the dining hall. est. Due In one month One day wa1t. WANTED: Drummer lor Rock/DanceOpen every class day I 1:30-12:30 In Band. Call Tom at 1470. laFonune Basement Found in library-one ticket to a musical in. Need a ride to Chi lor Springsteen sept.B RIDE NEEDED TO HOUSTON TEX FOR Chicago: call 1602 after 9:00pm to iden­Will pay anything. Call John Neblo 151 OCTOBER BREAK WILL SHARE tity. Alumni xt 053 USUAL. CALL CHRIS AT x1678 I WOULD APPRECIATE THE RETURN WRITERS, AUTHORS AND OTHER AR· OF MY DRIVERS LICENCE JULIE TISTS -Juniper Press, Notre Dame's WISE 269-6731 Wanted: male roommate. oft campus, student-run publishing house, IS soliciting close to NO. Under $1 00/month. 269­manuscripts of any kind from students, 1916 racuhy, and admlnjstrators for considera­To the bum In Prot. Gaskl's tTI3 Market­tion and possible publication. Imagine ­Needed desperately: ing class who round my wallet after classfrom the same publisher which brought Principles of Marketing textbook. last Thursday and isn't man enough toyou the smash bast· seller Mo/wlty: On Call 1079 and ask tor Greg. give rt back: -I am still offering you athe Road to Se/lng Out, you too could be •nstantly catapulted to lame and large reward lor ns return but I guess by NEED LSU TIX moderate fortune Bur you must act NOW now you've decided to keep the money YOUR Price CALL Greg 1692 and the wallet... HOWEVER. I tail to see-cell L1se Stanczak al 272-6690 IM­how you can get any benefit trom havingMEDIATELY All ser~ous offers con­Looking to buy a used bike. Call Christine my driver's license and military 10, too. Isidered at 233-3099. hope you have halt a heart and can return at least these two items. Just slink into Morrissey lale some night and shove them under the door of Am. 210, or atSacred Heart Panah on the campus has a least just drop them somewhere onfew openings lor elementary level [FOR SALE ]campus where some HONEST parsonCATECHISTS and YOUTH LEADERS. can lind them and return them. ------------·· Programs run Sunday morning PLEASE...g1ve me a break. (elementary) and evening (high school). II One beauty ot a rug tor sale, II. green­Interested. see Mrs Bernard at Pres­white shag $40. Call Judi x8113, 317 bytery office or call 283· 75 I I Walsh welcome NO· SMC students to: 71 Mercury Wagon, good condition, $400 Fully Alive Experience 9/7 and Genesis II call Rob at234-6298 9/9. For Info conlact Campus Ministry Office at St Mary's 264·5721 FRESHMEN .. Get involved with FRESH­FURNISHED 1 AND 3 BEDROOM MAN FIELD DAY '61 this Saturday start· APARTMENTS. 5 BEDROOM HOUSE.LOGAN CENTER: flrst Saturday Rec ing at 12:15 at Stepan Center 234-2626Sapt.12 9·1 I :30 am New and old volun­teers we~ome NEED A SOFA? We have one lor onlyStudent housing. University rated supe­$501 Call Ken (233-5977) or Joan (287· riOr. Complete facilities. Clean & sale. Call 6531). 291-1405 after Sept. 1. FRESHMAN FIELD DAY T -SHIRTS! 8 BLOCKS TO NO. ROOMS FOR 3 Buy yours during dinner tonight at eitherILOST/F~UND I MORE STUDENTS. $500 SEMESTER & dining hall tor the unbelievably low pice ot SHARE OF UTILITIES. CALL 266-3942 $4.00 FROM 5-9 PMTo the person "' Prot. Gasi<i'a 1TI3 Marketing class who picked up my wallet Efficiency apartments-·100.00/mo. Nearat 2:30 after clasa on Thursday. Aug 27: Notre Dame. On bus line. Call 255-8505You and I both know how much cash was or 259-4629. contarned wrth1n. I prom1se you s sub­TICKETS stantial portion of that money will be yours Charming front apt., 1 bedroom, livingII you w111 heed your conscience and room, kitchenene, stall shower. Near NO· on NO busline. Call291-6747. Need LSU Student & GA's. Call Jack 1173. House lor rent. Walk to campus. For Into ..................'!!''''''''' The ObMrver (USPS 598 920) is call Jim at 3234. Wanted: 2 GA LSU tickets. Call 233· published Monday through Friday 8764. and on home football Saturdays, .............................. t.i~;;d"2'(3ii"i:su tickets. Call Shirley atexcept during exam and vacation I 715 before 5 weekdays. pertods. The ObMrver is published WANTED ]by the students of Notre Oame and Need 2 student tix tor LSU. Call John Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions 3527. may be purchased for $25 per year Wanted many LSU GA tlxl Will pay ($15 per semester) by wr~ing The m,gabucks. Call Patatx1942 ,··r..ie.Eo·:rwa··G;:-,..ix··Faii··~:;sc··;:;.;[i . Obeerwr, P.O. Box Q, Notre WILL PAY ANYTHINGIII CALL BETH AT MATURE STUDENT NEEDED TO 423611Dame, Indiana 46556. SHARE LIVING QUARTERS. ALL THE ................................................................The ObeerWr is a member of , COMFORTS OF HOME AND MORE. Need 4 GA, 2 student LSU tix. Pay $$$.The Aaocl.red Pre.._ All $150 PER MONTH TOTAL FOR CABLE Cell Tjtd 6424 reproduction rights are reserved. TV. LAUNDRY, KITCHEN. STEREO. &  Needed: 2 GA"s lor LSU to appease irate lather. Call Scon xt222. Need I student season ticket tor my last year. call Jim al287-0581 or 287-7931. WANTED: 4 GA tickets lor LSU game. Call Cheri at 81 56. Need 2 or 4 GA tlx tor LSU, MSU, or FSU. Big bucks. Call Stan, 3008. Need two GA's lor LSU lor rich Uncle call Paul all 143. NEED 2 GA LSU TII!:KETS. CALL JOHN 1001 ITCHING FOR LSU TICKS BUT SERIOUSLY NEED MANY GA'S CALL 1022 ............................................... Will pay $60 lor two LSU GA's. MUST have before Friday, Sept. 4. call JC at 8446 helplhelpl need 4 LSU tickets will pay anythingll please help help! help! need 4 LSU GA tickets Please helpll call Pat 1400 WANTED: Two GA tickets tor LSU. Will pay good$$. Call Jeff--8862. Need 4 GA lor Michigan State and Florida State. Call 2269 Need two LSU GA's Call Patty 1321 DESPERATELY NEED USC TIX FOR IRATE ALUMNUSIII CALL CHRIS AT >1678 WILL PAY GOOD BUCKS. Need 4 LSU GA's by this weekend! Call Greg at 8334 or 83 I I . ..........-:-:: ............ WANTED: 2 OR MORE GA LSU TIX. WILL PAY !CALL ROB 1628 Need 6 G.A. and I Stud. TIX tor LSU. Call CHIP3123 WILL TRADE USC TICKET FOR LSU OR PAY WHAT YOU ASK CALL JENNY 41· 4507 Desparatly need 5 Fla Statetix GA or Stu­dent Jenny 41-4507 Need 1 LSU student ticket call Dan at 3597 Will trade 2 navy GAs lor r Fla. St. GA call Colleen >3477 USC ticket wanted, will pay mucho bucks call Donna at 6771 ,............................................................... I LSU ticket wanted. Money is no object call Donna at 6771 LSU ticket wanted. Will pay mega-bucks . Call Donna at 877 I Penn St. ticket wanted plaa88 call Donna at6771  All 1:1asS!IteC1. ads n-110.,t be recetvt!d by 4 45 p.m two dJys prtor ro the 1ssue 111 wh1cl, ltl(!! tt.f-;-!ll run The Observer off1ce will accept class•heds ManOa\-tiHouuh Fwiav. l 0 00 a rr to 4 45 p m AU classdteds must bf' pre·pa1cl. Ptlller 1n IHHSOn or througt1 rhe mall Wanted--2 GA LSU tickets--Call 233­Any OH-Campus women who want to 8764. play flag football, contact Karen or Kathy ...................................................:·····..······ at 266-0993 by Thursday. I NEED 4 LSU GA's together or apart, or HELP! NMcl up to 8 tlckete for eny NO any other GA's or student llx--3242 game. Will pay good price. Call Mary at 4766 SMC. Need 4 GA tix lor Penn State. Call Dom, 3075 ATTRACTIVE, POLISHED YOUNG LADY REQUIRED TO FILL POSITION Need 3 or 4 GA tickets tor FSU game. Call LEFT VACANT BY REGULAR LIVE-IN collect 219-362-4292 evenings. MAID TEMPORARILY ON SABBATICAL IN FRANCE. NO EXPERIENCE NECES­Need 2·4 GA L.S.U. tickets call collect SARY. APPLICANTS MAY APPLY FOR (318) 478·3502· (business) or (316) 477· AN INTERVIEW BY PHONING 21 7 9540 (home) ask lor Joe Fournet CAVANAUGHAh1421. HELP! I desperately need one GA ticket ROCK AND ROLL WITH "CRYSTAL" lor the LSU game. Kar_en 41-4991 FRIDAY AND SATURDAY NIGHTS AT IRISH COUNTRY. Need 3 LSU GA. top$$. Call Tom 1764 ........................ ONE FREE PITCHER OF BEER WITH FOR SALE I STUDENT SEASON ANY LARGE PIZZA ORDER EVERY FOOTBALL TIX CALL DAR 7160 BEST THURSDAY NIGHT AT IRISH OFFEnI COUNTRY. FOR SALE: 2 SPRINGSTEEN TIX. THE GREAT EIGHT IS BACK 1111111 How CHICAGO SEP 8. E'EST OFFER CALL about the awesome Kamikaze Party last 2773 Saturday mght ? Hope everyone had a good time. Keep your ears open tor future NEED 3 TICKETS TO LSU, GA OR STU· parties ..... FSU weekend .. DENT, CALL SUE AT 4-1-5773 FRESHMAN FIELD DAYI FOR SALE: One complete student toot· ball ticket.. bast seats possible. Best Campus Rock Group Forming. Interested offer at 4604. musicians/singers contact Mike at 3075 or Dan al 1697. FOR SALE: 2 LSU GA'S. BEST OFFER 277-6108. COME TO NORTH QUAD ON FRIDAY, FROM 4:30 TO 7:00, AND CELEBR.t:TE MSU TICKETS NEEDED.(LOTS) "CARNY"I Get in line lor the kissing booth PREFERABLY GA. JULIE 283·6731 and kiss your favorite Grar.e guy or Farley girl -a small puce to make your dreams WILL TRADE 2 LSU GA's FOR 2 GA's TO (QI' mghtmares) come true I MICHIGAN, FSU OR PURDUE ... CALL BOOR TOM AT277·0617. Field Day Feve1 .. CATCH ITt N.D. ALUMNUS DESIRES SEX • BUT Feel ABUSED ~nd want to get event WILL SETILE FOR 6 GA LSU GAME TIX ABUSE HOTLINE CAN HELP! CALL & 4 GA MICH. TIX. CALL COLLECT AF­2638 AND GIVE KEVIN A PIECE OF TER 5 (419) 866-4LL8 YOUR MINOt CASH$$$ tor pa1rs of G.A. TIX to any and all games. Please call John at289-6117. NOTICE-Any Notre Dame student whO ................................................................ holds current certification as an Emer­NEED FSU tickets Ill Call8093. gancy Medical Technician (EMT) and ''''!..'"""'"""'""'''''' would like to Ql'ganlze to possibly provide NEED 4 NAVY GA's. Call Jon 6692 EMS tor the campus, please contact Dan at2832. DESPERATELY NEED LSU GA TIX . $$$$$CALL JOHN 1764 .......................... . .. .............................. ........................ LOST KEYS: Last sean around Regina Need one L.S.U. ticket. Call Mike at Tennis Courts. Snoopy key ring. 3 keys x1789. and ID.IItound call Kelly 41·5824 DESPERATELY NEED FLA. ST. TICK­ETS CALL STEVE x6655 Ukato Sing? SMC Collegiate Choir needs male voiceo. A great way to meet people and produce good muele. Cell41-4095 or 41-4669 and tall< to Dr. Sprague ebout joining.PERSONALS CO-REC WATER POLO sign up in NVA Oltlca Un1M Sept. 9. FUN! Last chance to see SEX, SEX, and J110R1 IA~...;;:..;:;~~:-·H;Pv'1iiii;i··~ SEXIII Tonight at 7, 9, and I I In the Eng. fun tNe weekand. AUD. From !he 8-B HMi1ra ................................................................  

----~----~-----­
The Observer 
Baseballl roundup 

Tribe sweeps, Seaver sails 
Cards 5, Giants 2 Guerrero tripled home two runs to California. 
SAN FRANCISCO (AP) -Lary highlight a three-run fifth inning as Rookie left-bander Bob Ojeda, 4­Sorensen held San Francisco to Los Angeles defeated Pittsburgh, 6-2 1, and relief ace Mark Clear seven hits over seven innings as St. last night, handing the Pirates' their combined on a six-hitter for the Red Louis defeated the Giants, 5-2 yes­ninth loss In 1 0 games. Sox. Clear took over from Ojeda at terday afternoon. Bob Welch, 6-5, was the winner the start of the seventh and earned 
Sorensen, 7-5, picked up the vic­with relief help from Terry Forster his sixth save, holding the Angels to tory with relid help from Bruce and Alejandro Pena, who picked up one hit. Sutter, who e~Lmed his 18th save. his second save by pitching the last The Cardinal victory ended a five­three innings. Robert Long, 0-1; in 
O's 3, Mariners 2 
game Giant winning streak. his first major league start, was the 

BALTIMORE (AP) -Eddie Mur­loser. 
ray's bases-loaded single in the bot­
Braves 3, Phillies 2 

tom of the 11th inning gaveATLANTA (AP) -Eddie Miller Indians 2, A's 0 
Baltimore a come-from-behind 3·2 
singled home the tying run, stole CLEVELAND (AP) -John Denny victory over Seattle last night. 

second and third base and scored pitched a four-hitter and Jerry Dyb­the winning run on Jerry Royster's zinski cracked a bases-loaded single sacrifice fly in the bottom of the to give Cleveland a 2-0 victory over Rangers 4, Bluejays 1 
ARLINGTON, Texas (AP) -Left­

ninth inning to give Atlanta a 3-2 vic­Oakland in the first game of a bander Rick Honeycutt pitched a
tory over Phil~ldelphia last night. double-header last night. six-hitter and Billy Sample drove in 
At long last, former-USC quarterback Pat Haden bas the Los An­

three runs as Texas snapped a three­
Astros 8, Mets 0 Indians 10, A's 4

geles Ram signal-calling duties all to himself (AP Photo) game losing streak last night, beating
HOUSTON (AP) -Bob Knepper CLEVELAND ( AP) Mike Toronto, 4-1.

tossed a three-hitter and Alan Ashby Hargrove hit a two-run homer after Honeycutt, now 9-3 on the year,knocked in three runs with four hits, driving in two other runs with a struck out five and walked one in·including a two-run homer, to lead bases-loaded single in a seven-run raising his lifetime mark against theHouston to its seventh straight vic­seventh-inning that led Cleveland to Jays to 7-1.

• • • Receivers tory, an 8-0 decision over New York a 10-4 victory, giving the Indians a Mets. doubleheader sweep ofOakland. Knepper, 7-3, struck out nine and Dan Spillner, 2-3, reieved starter 
Royals 5, Brewers 4 
comedown. walked one while posting his fifth Rick Waits in the sixth inning of the

continuedfrom page 16 KANSAS CITY, Mo. -George
IRISH ITEMS: Gerry Faust was at il shutout in six complete games and nightcap and picked up the victory 

Brett's bases-loaded ground ball ner is listed in the press guide as a again yesterday. As juniors lined up lowering his e·arned run average to as Cleveland won its seventh game with two out in the ninth inningdefensive end, but the coaches have to pick up their football tickets, the 1.80. He currently ranks second in in eight outings. 
scored UL. Washington from third determined that his value would be Irish mentor was there, shaking the National League in both shutouts base and lifted Kansas City to a 5-4 
greater on the offensive line. hands, reading the newspaper, and and ERA. Twins 4, Yankees 3 victory over Milwaukee last night. 

BLOOMINGTON, Minn. (AP) ­Senior Ro~ Mishler has played a thanking each of the more than 200 Brett grounded the ball to third , Pinch-hitter Rob Wilfong's suicidenumber of positions for Notrt: studentsfor showing up. All ofthis at Reds 7, Expos 0 baseman Ed Romero, who threw to Dame, and tight end is the latest 7:00 in the morning ... Mike Golil: CINCINNATI ( AP) -Tom Seaver squeeze bunt scored Mickey second, but Jim Gantner was off theHatcher from third and lifted Min­

stop. slightly reinjured his knee iro pitched a two-hitter for eight in­bag and his relay to first was too latenesota to a 4-3 triumph over New"Both of these guys need t:x­practice yesterday afternoon .. nings and George Foster's towering to catch Brett.

York last night. 
perience," Uchtenberg says. "We Tim Koegel continues to work with home run 50 feet up the left field 
Tigers 5, White Sox4 
are doing our best to see that they the first team, and coaches say th1: foul-pole screc:n ignited Cincinnati The Twins, who ended a three­CHICAGO (AP) -Pinch-hitter get it. But it's tough when you are as performance of each of the quartt"r· to a 7-0 vctory over Montreal last game losing streak and snapped the Ron Jackson singled home Kirk Gib­

deep as this team is." backs in tomorrow's scrimmage ma\ night. Yankees' five-game winning streak, son in the 1Oth inning to lift the
Irish coaches say they will tli'fow determine the starter for L.S.l'. . A Seaver, 10-2, was bidding for the trailed 3·2 entering the eighth but Detroit Tigers to a 5-4 victory overthe ball about 65 percent of tht: book on Faust already has a(1pt:arnl 55th shutout and 11th two-hitter of tied the game when Hatcher tripled the Chicago White Sox last night. 

home Hosken Powell, who hadtime. On occasion, when the situa­Gerry Faust: Note Dame's .Han in his career, but a long rain delay after Gibson singled with one out in thetion calls for it, they will go "up top·· Motion was written by Dan Dn:~.sn­he pitched the eighth inning reached second when Dave Win­top of the I Oth, stole second and as much as 85 percent of the time man of the Cincinnati Enquirt:r and prevented him from starting the field dropped his fly ball for an error. 

scored on jackson's hit.
Without doubt, there will bt: is available in the Hammes' !\lotn· ninth. The victory gave him sole pos­Kevin Saucier, 3-1, picked up thetalented hands waiting for the ball ro Dame Bookstore.for 112.95. session of 28th place on major 


Red Sox 3, Angels 1 win with Dave Rozema getting his
league baseball's all-time victory list 

BOSTON (AP)-Dave Stapleton second save, while Jerry Koosmam,
BACK TO SCHOOL 
with 255 wins. 

hoisted a two-run homer after Car­3-11, took the loss, his second ney Lansford was hit on the head by straight since joing the White Sox.Dodge1rs 6, Pirates 2 a pitch in the fourth inning last night It was the sixth straight loss forKEGSALE----
ANGELES -Pedro as Boston scored a 3·1 vicl:ory over Chicago.
LOS (AP) 
ca OAK DAIRY PARTY STORE for details 684-4950 

• • . Preview
*cups & ice included . 
Juniper 

former-Purdue star Mark Her-rmann, is unsettled. New 
Nl> 

continuedfrom page 13 coach Dan Reeves has a task ahead. 
AutenHollyhock 

Charger playoff plans. Anchored by Art Still, the defense is good but still needs help at linebacker. IfSteve Fuller Seattle -Except for the kicking game of'Efren Her­Stateline Rd 
can continue to improve as he did in the second halfof rera and punter Herman Weaver, the Seahawks showed the season, Marv Levy's boys should break .500. little strength this past season. Jack Patera drafted only Denver -The Broncoes have bc:en on a downhill one offensive lineman despite needing help in this area
Michigan law prohibits advertising price 

slide "since there dismal Super Bowl appearance. The The line will have to be repaired for the number one "Orange Crush" defense has lost most ofits fizz and the offensive weapon, Jim Zorn, to be allowed to do his ND-SMC checks accepted quarterback question, complicated by the arrival of stuff 

For the best in PIZZA, SANDWICHES, CI:IIPS AND (;OLD DRINKS 
232-1883 Phone 232-1883 
FOR SPEEDY CARRY OUT OR DELIVERY 
( A vailab I.e 7 days a' week in heated containers) or stop a~: 
CLOSEST
GOOD TIME PIZZA 
DEliVERY 836 Pcutage Ave. TO CANlPUS 
South Bend, Indiana 46616 
Open: 4 p.m. to 11 p.m. Sunday -Thursday 4 p.m. to 1 a.m. Friday -Saturday 
If I J. II
:~·· ···-~ 


_
__...------~--~--~--~­
----~----~-~-­ -----.--------­ 
The Observer  Thursday, September 3, 1981  -page 11  
Dallas, Philly close  
Atlanta could be ready  
Well, so much for doing homework on Sunday after­ 
noons ... and Monday nights ... and selected Thursday nights.-America's No. I religion, pro football, begins its  Chris Needles  
1981 campaign tomorrow night in Tampa. Here's how I see the divisional races in the NFC shaping up:  Sports Writer  
Dallas ­ East Flip a coin. The Cowboys lost the division  NFC Preview  
to the Eagles last year because of the NFL's insane tie-­ 
breaking system, and as a result, had to play the cham­ quarterback. Doug Williams has arrived, but he still has  
pionship in frigid Philadelphia in their unlucky blue  a little ways to go. Witness the Bucs' 24-17 loss to the  
uniforms. The only weakness here, and its a big one, is  Steelers last season, when Williams intentionally threw  
the secondary. But a balanced offense and an awesome  away a pass to stop the clock late in the game. Trouble  
defensive front four should return Dallas to power.  was, it was fourth down.  
Philadelphia -The class of the conference, when  CWcago  - By beating Green  Bay, 61-7,  In  last  
healthy. But the loss of fullback Leroy Harris, Wilbert  season's finale, the Bears were blessed with a tougher  
Montgomery's personal bodyguard, until ~he playoffs,  schedule this year, including LA., San Diego, Dallas and  
plus vast inexperience at guard and the dismal failure of  Oakland. New offensive coordinator Ted Marchibroda  
the shotgun formation in pre-season, will probablo/ cost  hopes to put a spark into a routine, lifeless offense built  
the Eagles the division title. When the playoffs start,  around Walter Payton. He can't hurt.  
though, watch out.  Green Bay -If Bart Starr doesn't reach .SOO this  
Washington ­ So much for a youth movement. To  year, he never will. The Packers' slate includesonly four  
spice up a dormant offense, the Redskins brought inJoe  playoff teams, and that includes two games against the  
Gibbs as head coach, who designed San Diego's aerial  Vikings. There is minimal talent here, but the schedule  
attack. In turn, Gibbs brought in old veterans Terry Met- should afford a few wins by default.  
calf and Joe Washington and year-long hold-out John  West  
Riggins returned, all to aid former Domer Joe Theis- Atlanta -With the best corps of linebackers this  
mann, now an established NFL quarterback. Third place  side of Philadelphia and a perfectly-balanced offense,  
is a certainty, but a playoffspot is doubtful.  this could be the Falcons' year for the Super Bowl, bar- 
N.Y.Giants-Well, at least they have a good punter.  ring injuries. A small secondary and an uncertain kick- 
DaveJennings, the NFL's best, gets a lot ofpractice-he  ing game are only minor problems, but could prove  
had 94 punts last year. Their strongsuit is linebacker, so  fatal in the playoffs.  
Coach Ray Perkins' first draft pick was North Carolina's  Los Angeles -Vince Ferragamo has deserted to  
Lawrence Taylor, a linebacker. He'll help, but he can't  Canada, and is bombing out pretty badly. That leaves  
run, catch or throw the ball very well. On this team, he's  the reigns to Pat Haden, who probably would have won  
not alone.  the job anyway. The Rams are still basically the same, so  
St. Louis -Jim Hart is 37, Mel Gray is 32, Roger  that should guarantee a playoff berth, but not a Super  
Guess who basfinally landed himselfa startingjob in the Nation­al Football League? Yes, ''The Comeback Kid,"joe Montana (above), who led Notre Dame to a national championship in 1977, will be calling the signals thisyearfor the San Francisco 49ers.  Wehrli is 34, Dan Dierdorf is 32. If these guys can get out of bed on Monday mornings, it'll be a successful season. Tailback Ottis Anderson is the only star here, although No. 1 pick Neil Lomax could be one in a few  Bowl appearance. San Francisco -Well, look who finally won a start· ing job -Joe Montana! And he'll have a fine corps of  
years.  targets, including tailback Earl Cooper( 83 catches)and  
Central  receiver Dwight Clark (82). Draft choices Ronnie Lou  
To play Sunday  Minnesota -The lesser offive evils. The addition of Tony Galbreath and rookie Jarvis Redwine should aid a  XUSC) and Lynn Thomas (Pitt) should help the secon­dary, but the rest ofthe defense is suspect.  
non-existant  running attack.  A great passing game,  
Curtis comeback  1 steady defense, and a cakewalk schedule (only four , 1980 playoff teams) should insure another title. I Detroit -It took Billy Sims all ofone year to become  New Orleans -Poor Bum. He's got the Ingredients to lead a miraculous turnaround from last year's pitiful 1-1 5 record. But, alas, he is stuck with the NFC's tough­ 
: a star, and his presence should vault the Lions to second  est schedule -eight 1980 playoff teams, plus Pitts­ 
in this hapless division. A playoff spot could hinge on  burgh and Tampa Bay. Phillips and Hcisman winner  
CINCINNATI (AP)-Isaac Curtis  hit his cheek as reported previously.  their November I game at Los Angeles.  George Rogers should help, but just like love,  tur­ 
believes he will he able to play in the  "It was just the impact of his helmet  Tampa Bay -1979's champs were 1980's chumps  narounds take time. Quick! Name one Saint defensive  
Cincinnati  Bcngals  home  opening  when it hit mine. My helmet gave.  ( 5-l0-1 ). And, no, it wasn't bl·cause they have a  player. Aye, there's the rub!  

game Sunday with the Seattle Actually, the check pads inside 
Seahawks because of a combination causl·d it," Curtis said. of modern medicine and a strong The Bcgals gave Curtis a new hel­desire. met with a third guard bar across the 
l.ast Saturday, Curtis suffered a face instead oftwo. Cm.1s complains fracturl·d check hone in the final it is heavier and he hopes to discard preseason game with the Denver it in a few weeks. IJroncos. Curtis underwent surgery The IJcngals have waived kick Sunday and reported for practice return specialist Clcotha yesterday with only a small bandage Montgomery after picking up five­on his check. year veteran safety Mike Fuller from 
lie said doctors made a pinhole in­the San Diego Chargers. cision, and inserted an instrument That leaves Cincinnati with only that hooked the honl' and snapped it four running backs: Pete Johnson, had in place. James Hargrove, Archie Griffin and 
"That made a big difference. The Charles Alexander. other way, they would have had to make a larger incision and there would have really hl·cn some sorl·­ncss and tenderness there," Curtis said. 
"I intend to have a good year and I don't want to get set bal·k," said Curtis, adding that he doesn't want a 
Coming next week 
. 
1D 
The Observer... 
Jim Murray 

*********************************** 
*

*... "Everything you *
* 

... * 
always wanted to know *
* 
*

* , about sex" *
* 
*

* Engineering Auditorium $1 *
* 
*

* ,.. 7-9-11 Sept 2,3 

*
* 
,.. 

notR€ Oam€ 
~ Sponsored by 

~(u~t:>th1~ (lull
~********~********* 

TC PROVIDES
·rp
rl'Pl'al oflast season's injury plague. "Something like this is really not 
Merit scholarships up to $20,000 , ·--'--j
that serious. I want to have a good year, and I can't have that sitting on the sidelines watching football," said 
Leade~rship ·development

the Vl'tcran wide receiver. 
Curtis suffered the injury late in the first half when he was hit by Den­ver safety Steve Foley. Their helmets collided. 
"I saw him coming up five yards 
Management training 

ahead," said Curtis. "It was a clean hit." 
Adventure 
Riuell Ci6j ~ will ~ 
Employment opportunity 

Clfllllitafiua 6M ~ ~ ~ ia pell6elt ~ 7-10 11lwdDy ell 'f!UdDy f8: 
(219)283-6265
Peter Kernan 
River City Records 
50970 U.S. 31 North 

-------------·----------------------­
,._ The Observer 

Tennis  Center  in e he downed little­ristiane  
The ND wide recievers ready for the home opener September 12 against the Tigers ofLSU. (photo by Carlj. Frusbon)  Meadow beforknown Drew Gitlin. Lloyd, the· women's No. clobbered Kathrin Keil needing only 47 minutes; Jaeger eliminated Marie-Ch 

TWO HEAVY HITTERS 
TOUCH BASES ON BATS,
BALLS,AND BEER. · 

Thursday, September 3, 1981 -page 12 
Lloyd, in U.S. 
NEW YORK (AP) -
Navratil<' .t and Borg, tt tion, bn..~zed 

Borg advance Open tennis 
BOOG POWELL (Former American Baseball Great): Koichi here has been giving me a new angle on baseball. It seems the game's a little different in Japan. KOICHI NUMAIAWA (Former Japanese Baseball Great): 
:t: "j 1 fJIJ ~ (j:' 7 1 -)J., ~·'IJ{Ij\ e,'d) T9flo 
BOOG: That's right The field is 
!if.. 
i 
~<..
~~--­
'~ 
"''!:" 
' 
smaller over there. 
KOICHI: ~ 1 IJ, '/ 3 -~ ··c>J' e,ll) fJ. B*A(J)'f*t3t:%h-tt t:A-·r-9 J: ,. BOOG: Well, now that you men­tioned it, I guess you guys are 
kinda smaller. Does that mean you drink Lite Beer 'cause it's less filling? 
KOICHI: l'~::....., t; l' L l'IJ' &? ~ t.· 1v -cg-J: o 
Led by Chris Evert Lloyd Andrea Jaeger, Martina Sweden's Bjorn top seeds, with one excep­easily through their opening round matches yesterday in the U.S, Open tennis championships. 
Only Argentina's Guillermo Vilas, seeded sixth, struggled at the Na­Flushing 
1 seed, 6-l, 6-1, No. 2 
BOOG: Tastes great? That's why I drink it, too' I guess we have a lot more in common than I thought. KOICHI: :t(J):@IJ ! c··-j ·r-9. B* (J)!ffU!-T-.L..[:A, IJ 1 it/viJ'o BOOG: Me? I'm too big to play on a Japanese team KOICHI: :t: A-fJ. :. t fJ.l' -r·g-J:, '/ 3-~ [::Qii®l:9 J: 0 BOOG: Shortstop?! Very funny. 

Calleja of France 6-1,6-0, and No.4 Navratilova ousted Australia's Nerida Gregory 6-0, 6-1 in 45 minutes. 
Borg, seeded second among the men, needed only one hour, 1 5 minutes to crush Marcus Gunthardt of Switzerland 6-2, 6-2, 6-0, while ninth-seeded Roscoe Tanner took one minute less to dispose of Craig Edwards 6-3, 6-3, 6-4. 
Vilas, who won the U.S. Open in 1977 when it was played· on clay, fought off a determined bid by Git­lin, a former Southern Methodist University star, 6-3,6-7,6-0,6-4. 
Also winning yesterday was No. 8 
Pam Shriver, who clobbered Dana 
Gilbert 6-1, 6-0, and No. 6 Sylvia 
Hanika of West Germany downed 
Brenda Remilton of Australia 6-2, 6­
2. 

Playing in a late match was No. 16 
Brian Gottfried. 
League seeks change of venue 
LOS ANGELES (AP) -The Na­tional Football League wants its an­titrust case moved out of Los Angeles, saying a retrial in Southern California would be a "travesty" be­cause of the publicity generated by the first trial. Publicity about that trial, which ended in a hung jury, created "an at­mosphere ofhatred and misinforma­tion," the NFL said in a memorandum filed Tuesday in Los Angeles federal court to support a motion for a change ofvenue. The retrial is scheduled to start Sept. 30. A mistrial was declared Aug. 13 after the jury deadlocked 8­2 in favor of the Los Angeles Coliseum Commission and the Oak­land Raiders, who had taken the league to court over its refusal to let the Raiders move to Los Angeles. The NFL memorandum also said the lawyers for the Raiders and the Coliseum Commission had "made a cruel and utterly irresponsible at­tack," on retired Anaheim business­
man Thomas Gelker, one of the two jurors who sided with the NFL As the jury was deliberating, it was learned that his cousin was a former World Football League club owner. 

The Observer Thursday, September 3, 1981 -page 13 

f.!uarterhack Terry Bradshaw(above) lsoneq[the "genuine stars" still with the Steelers who should propel Pittsburgh back Into the playoffpicture. See Matt Huffman's AFC preview on page 13. (AP 
Photo) 
Browns ready? 
It's anybody's game 


EDITOR'S NOTE -This Is the first of two articles prelllewlng the 1981 National Football League season which begins Saturday In Tampa. 
No less than six teams -Buffalo, New England, Cleveland, Pittsburgh, Oakland and San Diego -have realistic chances ofa trip to the Super Bowl. Who will it be? As always, the team with the best offensive line, the most consistent defense and a little more luck than everyone else. 
East 

Buffalo -The Bills are on the verge ofbecoming the NFI.'s next great team and they possess the most impor­tant asset, a great defense (ranked No. 1 In 1980). IfJoe Fl·rguson can stay free of injury, the conference's best coach, Chuck Knox, should lead the team to a second­straight division title. 
New England -The Pats should be good for at least a wildcard with people like John Hannah, John Smith and Vagus Ferguson. But they will need a consistent, injury-free seail>n from Matt Cavanaugh or Steve Grogan at qua,..erback to go all the way. 1 
Baltimore -A fully recovered Bert Jones and a more experienced Curtis Dickey should enable the Colts to improve their 7·9 record. A doubtful dcft-nsc and crummy kicking game will prevent the Colts from gaining a post-season berth. 
Miami -Picking any Don Shula team to finish fourth Is dangl·rowl business, but the Dolphins arc rebuilding thdr offense and have only a few proven individuals on defense. In addition, the Dolphins have, in statistical terms, the hardest schedule in the league. 
New York -Wilh a dilapidated defense and only a few true professionals on the offc11se,Jet fans have little to look forward to. However theJets do have the easiest schl·dulc in the AFC and with Richard Todd throwing to l.am Jones and Wesley Walker they at least should be fun to watch. 
Central 

Cleveland -Unless you're a Steeler fan, there Is no reason to think the Browns won't pull off a number of, ridiculous finishes and repeat as division champs. Though Urian Sipc is famous, the strength ofthis team is 
Sports Writer 
AFC Preview 
tribute also. 
Pittsburgh -Last year the Steelers were down, but this year they are certainly not out. True, they have an aging team but they have enough genuine stars in Terry Bradshaw, Jon Kolb and John Stallworth to make it to the playoiis. 
Houston -Before the return of Ken Stabler Oller fortunes looked bad. But with a veteran leader, an ex­perienced front line and Earl "Thighs" Campbell, Hous­ton could become the first third place team to net a wildcard berth. 
Cincinnati -Ordinarily the Bengals arc better than a fourth place finish, but not in this division. With two able quaterbacks in Jack Thompson and Ken Anderson they will be able to throw the ball more as planned. They play the second hardest schedule in the league. 
West 
Oakland -Picking between Oakland and San Diego is difficult but the Raiders should win it because they have a better defense. Despite Jim Plunkett's perfor­mance in'i980, it would be unsafe to say he will have as good a year this season. Marc Wilson should help the team. Kenny King is the next great running back. Gene Upshaw and Art Shell should be the hub of the offense again. 
San Diego -Last year Don Coryell's offense caused the term "aerial circus" to be so overworked, it was sickening. This season probably won't be any different. With Dan Fouts, John Jefferson and the rest, the Char­gers will no doubt wing the ball by many oppnents. But to dominate they must develop a stronger running game and a more consistent defense. 
Kansas City-Though not a contender for a playoff spot, the Chiefs have the potential to hurt Raider and See PREVIEW, page 10 
•

Golfers battle 10 Slst U.S. Atnateur 
SAN FRANCISCO (AP)-Joe Ras­sett shot a 3-over-par 73 on the Olympic Club's Ocean Course, while most other contenders battled the Lake Course, and won medalist honors yesterday In the 81st U.S. Amateur GolfChampionship. 
Hal Sutton, the tournament's defending champion,_was among the 64 qualifiers for match play despite taking an 8-over 78 on the treac­herous Lake Course. His 36-hole to­tal was 151, well under the cut which came at 1 56. 
Rassett, a 23-year-old golfer from Turlock, Calif, and Oral Roberts University, led the way lnto·today!s opening of match play with a 5-over 
145. Corey Pavin, 21, who had a 69 on the Ocean course Tuesday, was second low man at 147 after his 78 on the Lake Course. 
"I don't think I played any dif­ferently. That course Is just brutal," said Pavin, a UCLA student from Ox­nard and one ofRassett's U.S. Walker Cup teammates. 
Rassett seemed unhampered by a slight wrist injury suffered Tuesday, especially on the Ocean's par-4 1Oth hole where he holed an 80-foot sand wedge shot for an eagle. But he also five bogies and a double bogie. 
Bob Wrenn, the Wake Forest star who posted a 70 Tuesday, fell to a 78 on the Ocean course and tied for third among qualifiers. With him at 148 were Colin Dalgleish of Scot­land, Greg Twiggs of Ll\foUa, Calif, and Chris Tucker of Midland, N.C. 
AU the match play, which ends Sunday, will be on the 6,679-yard Lake Course, site of one previous 
U.S. Amateur and two U.S. Opens. 
"On the Lake Course, you don't have to shoot a billion under par to win any match. If you just play steady and make pars, you'll win a lot ofholes," said Rassett. 
Sutton, the 23-year-old Louisiana golfer, had one double bogey in his final qualifying round and said, "I just wanted to get this over with and 
FOOTBALL 

move on to the (match play) tourna­ment. 
"In match play, one bad hole won't kill you. In medal play on this course, one hole can just blitz you." 
Those destroyed on the course yesterday, when strong winds added to problems posed by the narrow fairways, high roughs and small greens, Included 1972 champion Vinnie Giles of Richmond, Va., who shot an 84 and finished at 157. 
A 1980 semifinalists, Dick van Tacky of Titusville, Pa., was another ofthe 218 players failing to make the cut. He plyed the Ocean Course In 7,9 after an 80 on the Lake Tuesday. 
Von Tacky was the only one ofthe 10 U.S. Walker Cup players falling to reach match play, but half of Great Britain's Walker Cuppcrs missed. 
Pavin was the only player to break par during qualifying. Wednesday's best scores were 72s on the Ocean by Bradford Faxon of Barrington, Rl., and Thad Daher ofDurham, N.C. 
Notre Dame senior Bob Horak was among the many golfen to have trouble with the Olympic Club'courses this week. One of four New York representatives In the U.S. Amateur, the' Rochester native shot an 85 yesterday to go with an 84 on Tuesday for a two-day total of 169, well above the cut of 156. Horak joined 217 other golfen falling to make the cut. 
"I think it's a real tribute to Bob for just qualifying for the tournament," Notre Dame golf coach Noel O'Sulllvan said yesterday. "The U.S. Amateur is considered to be the most prestigious tourna­
ment of Its kind, and being able to be a part oflt has to be a real thrlll." -The ObsenJer 
CONCESSION STANDS 
Notice! All football concession stand 
lottery winners must pick up packets 
Student Activities Ofice by Monday, 
Se tember 7 or forfeit our stand! 
in its superb offensive line. A veteran d:e.fc~n~s~eliwlilll~c~·o:n:-:::::::::::::::::::~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~=======~····-: 
• • • Clubs 

continuedfrom page 16 
t'ompeting and rt·ally being a part of something that I think all the club members share. 
"We're very lucky at Notre Dame to have a lot of fine athletes come here (in 1978 It was estimated that about 80-percent of the Notre Dame student body had earned at least one varsity letter in high school)," he continues. "Uut it's not like someone Is just going to come in and make the varsity football team. 
"I think the uniqueness of club sports is the sports themselves in which someone will have to go through a learning process to really get to enjoy them. And that's where the union between members can come about -working on and learn t lng about something that they enjoy. Just about anyone really can become Involved since we offer something not only to a seasoned veteran In a sport, but to novices. 
SCIENCE AND ENGINEERING MAJORS: TAKE OUT INSURANCE NOW 
How about an "insurance" policy that your science or engineering degree will really be used? It would be nice. Especially considering the work you put into such a degree.. 
The Air Force will use your talents. We have openings for young men and women majoring in selected sci­ence and engineering academic fields ... like Aeronautical, Aerospace, General and Electrical Engineering, Mathematics, Physics and Computer Technology, and many more. 
One way to get into these jobs is through Air Force ROTC. Our AFROTC scholarship can help you finan­cially so you can concentrate on getting your degree. AFROTC is a great opportunity to help yourself through college, and the Air Force is a great opportunity to really use what you learn. 
Look into the Air Force ROTC program at 
·your campus. It's good insurance. 

Contact Capt. Got,trich at 283-6634 for additional information. 

BOTC 
Gateway Ia a great way of life. 


The Observer-Sports Thursday, September 3, 1981-page 14 
--~­

Oakland A's shortstop Fred Stanley leaps bigb dians swept a doubleheader from Oakland yes­to avoidsliding ClevelandIndians runnerMtguel terday. See American League roundup, page 10. Dilone as tbe ball goes into center field. Tbe In-(APPboto) 
Indiana Pacers for sale 
INDIANAPOUS (AP) Two years after announcing he would spare no expense in building the In­diana Pacers into a title contender, owner Sam Nassi is trying to sell his franchise and ·is involved in a con­tract dispute with his,former coach. 
Nassi announced in june he wanted to sell the team and slow season ticket sales for the 1981-82 campaign hasn't caused nim to change his mind. 
In addition, the Pacers have a 
court date today with attorneys 
hearing is scheduled in Hamilton Su­perior Court on a motion for a . restraining order sought by Leonard against a demand by the club's management that he report to work 
on a full-time basis. 
Leonard, who was fireq by Nassi 
last year, signed a five-year contract 
in 1979 which r~portedly paid him 
$1 51,200 for each of the first three 
years and $171,200 in ead. of the 
other years. From his annual salary 
Leonard was to pay his wife, Nancy, 
S30,000 for her work as assistant 
representing former coach and general manager. She resigned the general manager Bobby Leonard. A post in May 1980 and Bobby 

"WE'RE ALiqUOR & BEER SUifRMARIEr.' 
OCK'S LIQUOR WORLD 
2128 SOUTH BEND AVE., SOUTH BEND Phone 277-3611 
Offer Expires September I, 1911 
Leonardwas fir<ed a few months later. 
Leonard contends tht" Pacers have paid him only $121,000 a year since his dismissal and that working in their office, pt:rforming unspecified duties, would iinterfere with his cur­rent work as a manufacturer's repre­sentative, real estate and insurance salesman. 
In an interview with the In­
dianapolis Star, Nassi indicated he 
hasn't been encouraged over 
prospects for a sale. 
"There's been a lot of talk," said 
Nassi. "but there's been nothing 
where I'd make a trip to talk to 
anybody. 
"They've just been chipping around the edges. I haven't heard anything whe1·e I would bring in a lawyer to advise me." 
The Star rt'ported Nass had in­quiries from groups interested in moving the team to San jose, Calif, or Minneapolis. It said Nassi ack­nowledged the Minneapolis offer, but had rejectc:d it. 
"I wouldn't sell the club contin­
gent on it bei111g moved," Nassi said. 
Fuji lrvlonterey 
Fuji Sports 12 

• • • Sportsboard 
continuedfrom page 9 
BASEBALL 
Weat  
KansasC~y  12  11  .522  
x-Oakland  10  11  .476  
California  10  11  .476  
Texas  10  11  .476  1  
Chicago  10  12  .455  1.5  
Minnesota  10  14  .417  2.5  
Seattle  8  15  .348  4  
x-first half champions  

Yeaterdlly'a Reaulta Cleveland 2-10, Oakland 0-4 Boston 3, California 1 Baltimore 3, Seattle 2 Detroit 5, Chicago 4 Minnesota 4, r-..ew York 3 Kansas City 5, Milwaukee 4 Texas 4, Toronto 1 
TOday'a Gamea Milwaukee (Vukovich 1 0·3) at Minnesota (Aroyo 5·6) Seattle (Bannister 6-6) at Boston (Torrez 7·2), n Oakland (McCatty 9-6) at Baltimore (Palmer 4·6), n California (Zahm 8-7) at Cleveland (Barker 7-4), n Toronto (Leal4-9) at Chicago (Trout 7-5), n ' ­
New York (John 7·4) at Kansas C~y (Hanmaker 0-0 orJones2-1), n Detroit (Morris 10-4( at Texas (Matlack 4-6), n 
Tomorrow'aco-a Seattle at Boston, n Oakland at Baltimore, n California at Cleveland, n Toronto at Chicago, n 
Milwaukee at Minnesota. n New York at Kansas City, n Detroit at Texas, n 
MAJOR LEAGUE LEADERS (Yesterday's games not included) Amerlc•n L•ll!ll.,. 
BAniNG (185 at bats) -Zisk, Seattle, .340; Oliver, Texas, .331; Lansford, Boston, .329; Hender­son, Oakland, .324; Singleton, Baltimore, .322; Paciorek, Seattle, .322. 
RUNS-Henderson, Oakland, 65; Evans, Boston, 58; Cooper, Milwaukee, 51; Carew, California, 49; Lansford, Boston, 48. 
RBI -Armas, vakland, 56; Bell, Texas, 56; Oglivie, Milwaukee, 53; Evans. Boston, 52; Winfield, New York, 52. 
HITS-Oliver, Texas, 104; Lansford, Boston, 102; Henderson, Oakland, 99; Burleson, California, 97; Carew, California, 96. 
DOUBLES-Paciorek, Seattle, 22; Oliver, Texas, 22; Lansford, Boston, 20; Cooper, Milwaukee, 20; Winfield, New York, 19; Hatcher. Minnesota, 19; Armas, Oakland, 19. 
TRIPLES -Baines, Chicago, 7; Castine, Min­nesota, 7; Lemon, Chicago, 6; Mumphrey, New York, 5; Griffin, Toronto, 5; Henderson, Oakland, 5. 
HOME RUNS -Armas, Oakland, 18; Thomas, Milwaukee, 17; Evans, Boston, 16; Grich, California, 16; Luz~nski, Chicago, 16. 
STOLEN BASES -Henderson. Oakland, 40; . Cruz, Seattle, 37; LeFlore, Chicago, 23; Dilone, Cleveland, 21; Bumbry,-Baltimore, 17. 
PITCHING (8 Decisions) -Clear, Boston. 8-1, .889, 3.41; Burns, Chicago, 8-2, .BOO, 2.31; Torrez, B~ston, 7-2, .778, 3.16; Vuckovich, Milwaukee, HJ-3, 
.769, 3.55; McGregor, Baijimore, 9-3, .750, 3.49; Guidry, New York, 9-3,.750, 2.82; Honeycutt, Texas, 8-3, .727, 3.26; D.Martinez, Baltimore, 10-4, .714, 3.28. 
( 
STRIKEOUTS-Blyleven, Cleveland, 95; Barker, Cleveland, 94; Leonard, Kansas City, 83; Burns, Chicago, 76; Guidry, New York, 70. 
N.tlon.. LNgue 

BAniNG (185 at bats) -Madlock, Pittsburgh, 347; Rose, Philadelphia, .335; Dawson, Montreal, .322; Guerrero, los Angeles, .322; Durham, Chicago, 
.318. 
RUNS -Schmidt, Philadelphia, 56; Dawson, Montreal, 51; Raines, Montreal, 51; Rose, Philadep­hia, 51; Collins, Cincinnati, 50. 
RBI -Schmidt, Philadelph(g, 65; Foster Cincin­nati, 62; Garvey, Los Angeles, 53; Concepcion, Cincinnati, 51; Buckner, Chicago, 50; Carter, Montreal, 50. 
HITS-Rose, Philadelphia, 104; Baker, Los An­geles, 96; Garvey, Los Angeles, 91; Buckner, Chicago, 90; T Concepcion, Cincinnati, 89; Griffey, Cincinnati, 89; Salazar, San Diego, 89. ' 
DOUBLES -Jones, San Diego, 24; Concepcion, Cincinnati, 23; Buckner, Chicago, 22; Garvey, Los Angeles, 20; Hernandez, St. Louis, 19; Howe, Hous­ton. 19. 

TRIPLES-Reynolds, Houston, 9; Richards, San Diego, 9; MorPPO. Pittsburgh, 7; Herr, St.Louis, 7; Templeton, St.Louis, 7; Herndon, San Francisco, 7. 
HOME RUNS -Schmtdt, Philadelphia, 23; Daw­son, Montreal, 19; Kingman. New York, 19; Foster. Cincinnati, 16; Hendrick, St. Louis, 15. 
STOLEN BASES-Raines, Montreal, 63; Moreno. Pittsburgh, 30; North, San Francisco, 26; Scott. Montreal, 25; Durham, Chicago, 23; Collins, Cincln­nati,23. 
PITCHING (8_ Decisions)-Camp, Atlanta, 7-1, .875, 1.48; Seaver, Cincinnati, 9-2, .818, 2.39; Carlton, Philadlphia, 11-3, .786, 2.47; Rhoden, Pitts­burgh, 7-2, .77 4.04; Kaat, St. Louis, 6-2, .750, 2.11; Valenzuela, Los Angeles, 11-4, .733, 2.51; Ryan, Houston, 7-3, .700, 1 .37. 
STRIKEOUTS -Valenzuela, Los Angeles, 144; Carllofl, Philadelphia, 122; Seaver, Cincinnati, 11 0; Ryan, Houston, 98; Sutton, Houston, 80. 
TRANSACTIONS.i 

BASEBALL Amerlc•n Le1111.,. CLEVELAND INDIANS -Signed Dave Garcia, manager, to a one-year contract. 
TORONTO BLUE JAYS-Called up Jesse Bar­field, outtielder, from Knoxville of the Southern League, and Dale Murray, p~cher, from Syracuse of the International League. 
Nllllon•l LNgue 

ST. -LOUIS CARDINALS-Recalled David Green, outfielder; Neil Fiala, infielder; Gene Roof, outfielder, and Dave LaPoint, Joe Edelen and Luis Deleon, p~chers, from Springfield of the American Associa· tion. Sold Donnie Moore, prtcher, to the Milwaukee Brewers for an undisclosed amount of cash. 
BASKETBALL N.tlon•l &.ak.tboolt Auoc:lallon ATLANTA HAWKS-Sig<Mill Marvin Delph, guard, to a multi-year contract. FOOTBALL N.tlonet Foolbelt l.Ng.,. 
BUFFALO BILLS-Re-signed Lou Piccone, wide rece1ver, and Greg Cater, punter, after clearing waivers. Placed Mark Roopenian, defenstve tackle, and Chris Williams, defensive back, on the injured 
reserve list.  
CINCINNATI  BENGALS  - Cut  Cleotha  
Montgomery,  running  back.  Signed  Mike Fuller,  
safety.  

GREEN BAY PACKERS -Cut Wylie Turner, defensive back. TAMPA BAY BUCCANEERS-Signed Thea Bell, wide receiver. Cut Mike Shumann, wide receiver. HOCKEY N.tlon•l Hockey Le1111.,. PlnSBURGH PENGUINS -Signed Orest · Kindrachuk, center, to a free agent contract. 

$699 
PETRI WINES
...... 
Chablis, Burgundy, Vln Rose, Pink Chablis 
$499 
BEER 
Busch 24 caiS -------------.....7.49 Nabral Light 24 a~s... ....................1.89 Strllll's 24 w1 __________ .. __ .. 1.79 
Miller lite Z4c.s ................7.79 
Miller 24 a~1 ____ .________ ..__ .1.79 
Pabst 24 caiS..----------------·5.98 
Blatz 24111s....................6.49 
Olympia 14 eMS _____________ ...7.99 Olympia Geld 24 em ______ .....1.99 Old Milwaliee 24 eMS ____ ......6.69 
• BOURBON BLEND &CANADIAN 
CIIYIIt'S 751.,......__ ........ 5.29 lim BeaiiiUtJr ............... 7.19 
Seatram's 1Crown 1s1• ..... 5.89 Philadelphia 1.15 L.____ ......10.39 Canadian Mist 1.75 1.... __ ....12.29 Barclay BourtJon llitll ________ 5.99 Walker's Canadian 1litll __ .... 6.19 
Wild 
TurkeJ 
B6.1pro0f 750ml 
24Cans $559 
VODKA& GIN 
America• Vodkda llillr ........ UJ Kamchatka 1.15 1.............. 8.99 Gordon's Vadka 1lillr.......... 5.49 Smirnoff 80° 751 .......-..... 5.41 Dark E,.s 151 ........._.......3.19 Beefeaters 750 ml 
Gordon Gin 1 liter 
SCOTCH 
I&B750 mi .................J0.29 Cutty Sark 751 mi ...._____ ..... 9.79 Usher's us 1....__ .. __ ......J 3.89 House of Stuart 1uter __ ....... 6.49 Passport I liter ••••.•••••• 7.69 
OTHER 
Hiram Walker Schnapps 751 • . 4.49 castillo Rum SiiYer llillr ____ .. 5.79 Ron Rico Rum 7511111... ........ 5.39 
Will 
Zonin Lambrusco 751., ........ 2.99 Andre' Cltlnrpape 7511fL....... 2.99 Blue Nun 751., ............... 4.19 Zanin Asti Sptllante 751 ., .... 5.99 
IIAIY IITIIEJ UIIAIIrUnSED SlfCIALS IIIIT USTfD 
5% Discount On All Full CaHa of Liquor or Wine 


BIKE CLEARANCE SALE 
~tpost
Jradina
Company 
16533 Cleveland Road Granger. IN 46530 
Retail Sale 175 125 Fuji 125LTD 4d9 384 175 149 Fuji America 630 475 Trek 412 348 275
210 175 

Trek 613 
375 300
234 189 

Trek 614 
410 330
395 325 

Trek 716 566 455 
SA FE 25% on all accesories SALE NOW GOING ON Directly North of University Park Mall, Behind Arby 's 
The~~========================~============== 
~~c:1lC3L~==========================T=h=u~r~s=da=y=,=Se=p=t=e=m=b=e=r=3=,=19=8=1===p=a=g=e=l=5; 

Campus
Molarity Michael Molinelli 
TO ~€NUF1-cG.T 

H F?E '5 /J·IAT REPORT YotJR CJ.lANC.£L.L£RY 


Simon 

I!JJ. I catJ) THIN!( A8tXITIJJt5 MRATMkiHTHN'PEJJ 70 'HUlfKYJ­IIK7 C/?.iW/5 F MTT 7lJiNS 7Ne 




ACROSS 24 Blue-pencil 1 German 26 Love apple tribesman 28 Pedestal 5 Pulverized parts particles 30 Machine 9 Picture parts 13 Chills and 31 Sydnsy's lever state: abbr. 14 Senator 34 Chose Kefauver 35 "-Manon 16 Ring of a Horse" 1 light 36 Aunt: Sp. 17 Feathery 37 Huzzahs 
plant 38 Blacksmith 18 Flat c.ap 39 Storage hut 19 Unique 40 Diamonds, 
thing slangily 20 Quagmire 41 Position 21 Dressed 42 Belgian 
skin city 22 Region In 43 Period of Soain time: abbr. 
Wednesday's Solution 

OH TIM ... NEXI Tlt.tE 

•4 p.m. ...;. seminar, "transfer of energy, electrons
YOU LEAV~ 'THE: RDDH 

and information in monolayer assemblies", dr.
WDUL.D you ff£H£HB£'1': 

dietmar moblus, max planck lost. for biophysical chemistry (gotingen, w. germany), conference room, radiation lab ' 
•4:15 
pm -fall award ceremony, memorial library auditori, sponsored by army rotc 

•6-9 
pm -organizational meeting, memorial library auditorium, sponsored by nd/smc council for the retarded 

•6:30 
pm -meeting, "life in the spirit", llbrarf lounge, sponsored by nd charismatic movement 

•7-9 
pm-meeting, senior placement kickoff, car­roll hall smc, sponsored by smc counseling and career center 

•7 
pm -logan center organizational meeting, library auditorium, sponsored by volunteer


Garry Trudeau services, old and new volunteers welcome 

•7:30 
pm -movie, "the furies", annenberg auditorium, snite museum 

•7, 
9, 11 pm -movie, "everything you always wanted to know about sex", engineering auditorium, sponsored by marketing club, $1 


Television Today 
~ Today with Lester Sumrall U:30p.m. 22 As the World Turns 
Jeb Cashin l:OOp.m. 

1:30p.m. 2:00p.m. 
2:30p.m. 3:00p.m. 
3:30p.m. 
4:00p.m. 
4:30p.m. 
44 Highway 10 Listen to division attentively 45 Dramatist 11 Margarine 
Arthur 12 Actor Rip 46 Declaims 15 Speak 48 Opposer haltingly 5:00p.m. 49 Obtain 21 Hastened 51 Spring 23 Destroy 
period 25 Mates o1 53 Footwear bucks 56 Water birds 27 Equipped 5:30p.m.
57 "Golden with sweeps Boy" play­28 Miss Day wright 29 Swiftly 
59 Global area 32 Military 60 Decamp operation 61 Musical 33 W•terprool 
composition ' boot 6:00p.m. 62 IJuck's 35 Scottish 
milieu lord 63 Water bird 38 -the union 64 Medical message 
suffix 39 Stream 65 Salamanders deposit 
6:30p.m.
41 European DOWN 42 Fluffy 1 Barbed stuff 
spear 45 Clerical 2 Molding residences 3 Passadthe 47 Gotten up 
worst point 49 Expert 4 Layer 50 Whodunit 5 CPA first name 
entries 52 Small case 7:00p.m. 6 Treated 54 Grammar 7 Take a no-no 
stroll 55 Farfrom 8 Plpawlth gentlemen rightangle 56 Pair 7:30p.m.9 Young hog 59 Orang 
8:00p.m. 
8:30p.m.
OOHHH!II WHAT AWEEKEND AT SENIOR BAR 
9:00p.m. 
Sept. 4 Friday: Beach Night 
10:00 p.m. 
plna coloda and mal tal apeclal pllzea for beat beach attlrel 
10:30 p.m. 
Sept. 5 Saturday: moose Is Lr ose Night 
11:00 p.m.
Open Wed-Sat 9:30-l:OO 
11:30 p.m. 

16 Another World One IJie to Uft
•

-66 Ught&Uvc:ly 22 Search for Tomorrow 46 Lester Sumrall Teaching Series 16 Texas 22 The Guiding Ught 28 General Hospital ~ Tennessee Tuxedo ~ Tom &Jerry 
16 Bugs Bunny 22 CBS Afternoon Movie 28 Edge of Night 46 Bull winkle 
22 Woody Woodpecker 28 Hour Magazine 46 Rocky & His Friends 
16 GIUigan's Island 22 Gomer Pyle 46 Camp Wilderness 
16 Bewitched 22 Andy Griffith 28 Hollywood Squares 46 Canoon Festival with Tom &Jerry 
16 Brady Bunch 22 Happy Days Again 28 'Joker's Wild 
16 NBC Nightly News 22 CBS News 28 ABC's World News Tonight 46 Timmie & Lassie 
16 NewsCenter 16 22 22 Eyewitness News 28 Newswatch 28 46 Jim Bakker 
16 M-A·S.H 28 Tic Tac Dough 
Tonight 
16 NBC Magazine 22 MagnumPI 28 Mork & Mindy 46 Miracle Revival Hour 28 Bosom Buddies 46 W. V. Grant 16 Thursday Night Movie, "Breakhean Pass' 22 Nurse: 28 Barney MlUer 46 t-ester Sumrall Teaching Series 28 Taxi 
4f) Word of Ufe 22 CBS Reports: "Kids and Guns" 28 20/20 46 Today with Lester Sumrall 16 NewsCenter 16 22 22 Eyewitness News 28 Newswatch 28 46 Jack Van Impe 16 Tonight Show 22 U.S. Open Tennis 28 ABC News Nightllne 46 Blackwood Brothers 22 TheJeffersons & Madigan 28 Charlie's Angels 46 Praise the Lord 16 Tomorrow Coast to Coast 

Thursday, September 3, 1981 -page 16 
ExpeTienced bunch 

Catching corps strong 
the receiving end ofpasses from the are talented receivers, and have the Assistant Sports Editor eventual winner of the quarterback potential to play in any given situa­race. tion. 
Notre Dame's football coaches During spring drills, the offensive Also on the receiving end of have made one thing very clear player who showed the most passes from the eventual winner of since spring practice opened last promise and improvement was Mike the quarterback derby will be the April. This year's team will throw the Boushka. In fact, he was the winner tight ends. Again, the Irish are deep. ball more frequently than Notre of the Hering Award at the Blue­"Dean Masztak is the finest tight Dame teams ofthe recent past. Gold intrasquad game as the spring's end I have ever been associated 
While the battle goes on to see most outstanding offensive player. with," Lichtenberg says bluntly. who will be doing the throwing, "Mike is a very disciplined "There is no doubt that he is an all· some people tend to forget a factor player,"~~ays Irish offensive coor­America calibre player." equally as important. Who will do dinator Tom Lichtenberg. "He had Many football observers agree. the catching? an outstanding spring, and con­Several of the many pre-season out· 
As with any offense, much of the tinues to improve every day. look magazines list Masztak as receiving duty will fall to the backs. "He has all the necessary tools to among the best at his work. The multiple offense planned by be a very good receiver. He runs a • "You have to set a goal for your· Gerry Faust and his assistants, good route, has good hands, and self," says the 6-4 Toledo product, however, will feature a generous plays smart. We are very pleased "and that has obviously been one of proportion ofpasses to men coming with his progress, and are expecting mine. It's now or never for me. The out ofthe backfield. The primary tar· big things from him as the season injury kept me out a lot last year, and get will_be Tony Hunter, the wide· goes on." now senior year is here. This is what receiver-turned-wing-back. Boushka, for his own part, is it all comes down to." 
In addition, Hunter will share a looking for a big season as well. , Lichtenberg points out the great good deal of the ball-carrying "I am really excited about all of fall that Masztak has been having, chores, as the man aroundwhom the this," the Wichita native says. "Of and compares it to his performance 
By SKIF' DESJARDIN 
It would be quite difficult for Oakland Raider quarterback jim 

multiple offense revolves. But there course, I'd love to be in on every last spring, saying he can see a
Plunkett(above) to repeat his heroics oflastseason. See the American 

are five other players who will be on play, but the system calls for Dave marked improvement.
Conference preview on page 13. ( AJiPhoto) 

and I to bring the plays in. "He just has it all," the coach says. "I love the new offense. It makes "He is a superb athlete, with goodAdded dimension everything exciting. Every ·play has speed, and great hands. He runs a the potential to be a game-breaker." fmc pattern, blocks very well, and is Splitting the duties with Boushka a good enough athlete that we can 
at the split end position will be Dave split him wide on occasion."
Clubs enhance NO athletics 

Condeni. For the most part, Irish Masztak, like Boushka, loves the coaches will alternate the two, using new offensive system implemented 
Many have called this year the beginningofa newera 
them in a shuttle system that allows by the Irish coaching staff. It makes in sports at Notre Dame·-"new" in part because ofthe the coaches to send in the offensive the game fun, he says. greater efforts put forth by the athletic department in plays. "It's so good to go out on the field increasing the status of the so-called "minor" or non· "If there is one word to describe and enjoy what you're doing. Every 
revenue producing sports. Condeni, it's 'tough'," says Lichten­day you can go out with a smile on 
But one does not have to be limited to the role of berg. "He's not that big, or fast, but your face, and it gets so that you spectator to be appreciative of the wide spectrum of he plays a very smart game. He does don't mind the extra work. It's com· recreation offered at the University. not make mental mistakes out on the plicated, though. Pete and I have 
Dr. Tom Kelly, Director of Non-Varsity Athletics field, and that is very important. been working hard to adjust to it." (NVA) at Notre Dame, assistant Richard O'Leary and Currently, there are dght groups officially "Dave is just a tough competitor. "Pete" is Pete Buchanan, the graduate assistants Sue Roberts and Tony Finan con· recognized as clubs by the University: sailing and water Writers always call players like Dave second tight end on the team. 
tinue to work to broaden that spectrum. For the last 'hard-nosed'. He gives you every­"We have become very good
polo in the fall, boxing, men's. volleyball and a ski team several years, the NVA department h~ been taking in the winter, and the newest addition -women's thing he has on every play." friends," Masztak says. "That's im· strides toward promoting overall excellence for Uni· softball for the spring. The women's track and cross· Lichtenberg goes on to say that portant when you are each trying to 
versity athletics in intramural, co-recreational -and Condeni has "real good hands," a learn something new."
country and the rowing clubs are year round sports. what this new weekly column will be concerned with characteristic that also makes him The adjustment is bigger for Buc­
Rowing and sailing are open to both men and women. -club sports, or more spe~ifically, Notre Dame's non· the team's number-one holder for hanan, however, he has spent tht·
There is also a possibility of women's golf becoming a varsity organizations which compete at the intercol· club sport this spring. kicks. last two years as a fullback, and is A major factor in the success or now learning a new position, as well 
legiate level. Other groups, such as the gymnastics club, has not 

Essentially, the difference between club sports and yet attained official club status, but does compete failure ofany team is depth. And, this as a new offensive system. intramurals is that clubs and interest groups compete against similar organizations from other schools. season, Notre Dame seems to be "It really has been no problem for against like groups from other schools. Intramural ac· "Women's softball is a good example of a group deep at virtually every position. The him," says Lichtenberg. "Pete is a 
split end spot is no exception. natural athlete, and has made the
tivitles are contested solely among students on campus. developing on its own," states Kelly. "They only started The difference in regards to varsity sports is that while being competitive last year, but they showed that they "We are very happy with what we transition with surprising ease. In have seen of Brian Behmer," Lich­fact, he seems to be having a lot of
varsity teams follow the guidelines of the NCAA, the were willing to make some ofthe sacrifices necessary to University itself governs the clubs, and of course, the be considered for club status." tenberg says. "He is a very talented fun with it. club sports' officers are responsible for their own Among the sacrfices he li:>ted are dedication and freshman with excellent size. He "He is an exceptional blocker, a~ 
coaching and handling of their business affairs money. runs about 6-6, 205, and he has real anyone who has seen him play ful­
(including scheduling). "Most of the money to fund trips has to come out of good speed. lback knows. But he also has a re••' "Being officers gives the students oppurtunity to the students' pockets," maintains Kelly. "But we can "We've converted him from quar­good pair of hands, which makes promote leadership qualities within themselves which I fund the clubs well, for the most part, with the terback, where he played in high him perfect for the tight end spot. II think is a good experience in itself," says Kelly. "TI!.ere legitimate necessities." school, and he has real good foot he has had any problem, it has been 
is a great co-operational effort that club members put Funds, however, are not the substance of what club movement. That gives him agility learning to line up on the line, rathn together for their own club constitution; everyone in sports are. and quickness, which is what you than as a back. But that's not a major the club can have a say in establishing a direction that "The closeness that exists !between club members, need as a receiver." difficulty." 
they want to take, especially when it comes to schedul­and the desire to be involved is the essence of what In addition, Lichtenberg says that Backing up in the tight end spot ing. We've had clubs that have traveled to national sports are all about," says Kelly. "There is a joy of two other players may see action as are two more converts. Chris Boer­(crew club in Boston, for example) and international split ends, sophomore Mike Favorite events (rugby club in Ireland)." See CLUBS, page 13 and freshman Mike Richerson. Both See RECEIVERS, page 10 

MIKE BOUSHKA 6-3, 200, Sr. Split End No.17 Wichita, Kan.  DAVE CONDENI 6-0,180, Sr. SplitEnd No.80 Cincinnati, Ohio  BRIAN BEHMER 6-6, 20S, Fr. Split End No.13 Brecksville, Ohio  PETE BUCHANAN 6-3, 230,Jr. Tight End No.9S Plymouth, Ind.  DEAN MASZTAK 6-4,240, Sr. Tight End No.86 Toledo, Ohio  
--------------------------------------------------------­ 





