l 
l
Nixon Bio -page 6
'

' ' 

VOL. XVI, NO. 2H an mdependenr student newspaper serving notre dame and saint mary s WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 30, 198 I 

Haig-Gromyko talks close in stalemate 
liNITED NATIONS ( AP) Secrt·tary ofState Alexander M. Haig Jr. said yesterday his talks with Soviet Foreign Minister Andrei A. Gromyko failed to resolve "areas of intense disagreement" between the two superpowers. But he said the fact they talked at all was a good sign. 
"I suppose there is progress in any such communication," llaig said of the meetings Monday and last Wed­nesday. "We had a whole host of areas of intense disagreement bl·­tween the two powers a~d we had an opportur.~ity to explore the hasis ofall those issues." 
However, asked on NBC-TV's "Today" show whether the talks had reduced tensions between \'fashing· ton and Moscow, Haig said, "No, 1 don't think so. 1 think the period ahead will have to reflect whether or
Sol'iet Foreign .lfinister Andrei (iromyko remained far from compromise on sez•eral ke)' 
not the discussions will have made a
( riKht) and Secretary of State Alexander Haig points ofcontention. See related story at right. 
substantial contribution."
finisbed tbeir round ofarms limitation talks in­(AP Photo) 
Haig said he and Gromyko agreed

conclusive/)• yesterday, as the two nations 
between them to say little about thl· meetings. They also agreed to .·on· tinue the discussions early !.ext
In talk year, prohahly in Geneva. But Haig said he did coml· awav with the feeling that the Soviets. are as an­guishcd as the United States over the
Reagan outlines economic recovery 
situation in Poland. 
WA~HI:\I<iTON (AP)-President Reagan told officials of 14 I nations }"l'sterday that global n·onomic prohkms can only he resolved through fiscal austerity combint:d with reliance on "the magic of the marketplace." 
!lis speech. opening the annual meeting of thl· World Bank and In­tl·rnational Monetary Fund. amounted to an appeal to other na­tion.~ to embrace his own prescrip­tion for economic recovery. 
Some 2,000 delegates -many n·pn:senting avowedly socialist countries -heard Reagan say that foreign aid cannot he the primary ekment of the development stratl·gics of poorer countries. 
"llnless a nation puts its own finandal and economic house in or­der. no amount of aid will produce 
progress" he said
' · 
But he added that the llnited 

States recognizes the need of low­l·nc'IJI11'" '"I>Untrl···s 'or li.S. as·s·l·stanc···
~ , , ,, , to strengthen their economics, diversify their exports and work 
toward self-sufficiency.
The gathering offinance ministers and central hank governors at a Washington hotel was polite and at­tentive hut did not applaud the president during his speech. All told. some 13,000 delegates are attending the conference. 
Reagan's policy of attempting to contain inflation through budget slashes and tight credit -at pain of high interest rates -has come un­der fire from rich and poor countries alike. But, after Reagan's address, IMF managing Director Jacques de Larosierc offered an unusually warm 
HPC says keg policy, space plague ND 
By ROGER WILKE 
Neu•sStaff 

The Hall President's Council meeting began last night with more talk on the Keg Policy and conn·rn for social space. hut ended in the realization that alcohol abuse is the main problem in the social life at Notre Daml·. 
Council member Lloyd Burke expressed the idea that keg policy is of little consequence compared to the problem ofalcohol abuse. "It dol·sn't matter what kind of container it's in," he stated. "It will he abused. It's time to advocate a mature, responsible attitude towards the use ofalcohoL" 
Wayne Pdlegrini and Peggy Cronin, from Psych Services attended the ml·cting to help the HPC get a policy on alcohol underway. They l'Xplained that then· arl' differences between the social drinkers and the abusers, and that students need to recognize the abusers. Pel­k·grini said that "the nuts and holts of solving the problem is at the student levd. The students have the power to correct the problem." 
Pdligrini and Cronin l·ame with impressive ideas and facts on how to correct. or at least reduce the alcohol problem on campus. The first fact is that seven to ten percent ofthe student~ on campus have a problem. Some do not rl'CI>gnize it. others do. The second fact is that most freshml'n with problems bring them from high school; Notre I>amc will only encourage or discourage their prohkm. 
See HPC, page 5 
"Thl· anguish is probably com-

endorsement of Reagan's policies. 
parable on their side," he said. 
"Reduction ofthe rate ofli.S'. l"nfla­

"Thcre are a number of disad­tion is crucial to world economic f t h'l't .. h .. , "I vantages i they contemplate any
s a 1 1 y, e sa1u. t must he ac-
more drastic action." hieved and it can only be achieved if Haig had said prior to the meeting 
s REAGA 4

ee N, page he would warn Gromyko against 
Soviet military intervention in 
Poland. lie said yesterday. "We have 

made it very dear. together with our 
allies, the consequences ofSoviet in· 
tervention would he profound and 
long-lasting." 
Ikan Fischer. the State Depart· ment spokesman. told rt:portl·rs following Monday's live-hour meeting at the Soviet li.N. mission that llaig emphasized to Gromyko "the dl·sire of the llnited States to n:snlve international questions on the basis of restraint and reciprocity." 
The Soviet news agency, Tass. said Gromyko. in turn, had emphasizl·d to Haig "the fruitlessness ofattempts to achil·vl· military superiority." It said Gromyko told llaig that tuturl· arms negotiations should preserve "everything positive" accomplished so far and recognize "the principk of equality and equal security of thl· two sides." 
Tass also sai~ (;romyko "confirmed ag;1in that thl· Soviet llnion is not Sel·king confrontation with the llnited States. and. as al­ways. gin·s preference to dforts in favor of rdaxtng international ten­sions, scaling dr•wn the arms raet· and settling conflict situtations through talks." 
"I"h 7· 11

e ass statement rl' l"l'tnl thl· Soviet view that the strategic arms limitation treat,_·. SALT 11. nl·votiatcd 1 · 
'"' 

wit 1 former Prl·sident Carter, hut unratitkd hy Congress, should he prest.:rvnl in future negotiations. 
================================================= 
Popularity grows 


Colleges add Japanese language 
By LEE MITGANG 
Associated Press Education Writer 
Nihongo wa muzukashii. 
Learning what that phrase means 

is "an endless, awful struggle that 
words can't describe," say~ Beth 
Tsunoda, a student at Columbia Uni­versity. 
But Mrs. Tsunoda and a growing number of other students think it is worth the effort to learn the Japanese language, to learn, for ex­ample, that "Nihongo wa muzukas­hii" means "Japanese is difficult." 
They arc doing it at a time when other foreign languages are declin­ing in popularity at American uni­versities. 
The Modern Language Association, which keeps tabs of uni­versity language rolls, says that from 1970 to 1980, the number of stu­dents taking Japanese at two-and four-year colleges went from 6,620 to 11506 ·up 74 percent. Total uni­versity enrollment went up only 49 percent -from 7.9 million to 11.8 million -during the decade. 
In the last three years alone, the association says, the number of stu­dents taking Japanese has increased hy nearly 7 percent. Chinese has also grown rapidly, up I 'i.9 percent. But enrollment in college Spanish and French classes grew less than I per­cent. Thl· number ofstudents taking German droppl·d hy 6 percent, and tht· number taking Russian shrank· 14 percent. 
The study of_lapanese traditional­

ly has been centered on the East and West Coasts where Japanese in­fluence on American culture and commerce is greatest, and especially in California. where 'i.I 00 students, nearly halfthe U.S. total. arc enrolled in the courses. 
But in the last several years, Japanese has spread to the heartland 
to community colleges in Kalamazoo. Mich., to the University of Cincinnati, Georgia State Univer­sity, the University of Alabama and Idaho State University, f1-Jr example. 

At Cornell l lniversity in Ithaca, N.Y., which has one of the most in­tl·nsive Japanacse languagl· programs in the nation, Professor Eleanor H. Jorden says: "we are struck by an incredible increase here. I walked in our Japanese class to find 42 people." Last year, she said, the class had 32 students. 
The reasons behind the growth in American interest in Japanese seem nearly as inscrutable as the language itself. 
At Alabama University, for in­stance, the chief motives may be l't:onomic. "Business ~tudents are especially interested in view of the fact that Japan is now Alabama's No. 
I foreign trade partner," says Mic­
hiyasu Shbhido who teaches 
Japanesl· at the schooL 
In gl·neral. though. busint.:ss schools do not grant degrn· credit for Japanese, or for any language. 
"It's still Vl"IJ' unusual for any graduate school of business," says Professor Robert llawkins, vice dean of New York llniwrsity's graduate business schooL lie said that chang­ing thl· policy might dilute the strict­ly professional content ofa business degree. 
Columbia University Professor Gal")' Ledyard who teachl'S Japancsl' disagrees. "The business schools ex· plain it away, but I make it a charge. Their knowledge ofJapan is wol'li.ll­ly inadequate, to an extent that it's the country's problem." 
Japanese influence on American popular culture is perhaps a bigger factor in explaining illlerest in Japanese than economics. 
Terl")· Lamphier. a spokesman for NYU's business st:hool, said the hit television mm1-series "Shogun" about life in 16th century Japan may have sparked some interest in the language. 
"In thl· air are a hunch of references about Japan. Therl' are. let's facl' it, a lot of Toyotas on the road. The interest is cumulative, it adds up," says Richard Brode of the Modern Languagl· Association. 
One of the most u>mmon reasons for taking Japanese may bl· thl· simplest: "most of the studl·nts just say, 'I want to,"' says Ms. Jorden." 
"Frankly, aftl·r I got out of collegl' 
SeeJAPAN, page 4 




News Brie./§ 
Wednesday, September 30, 1981 -page 2 

~~~~====~============================~ 
by The Observer and The Associated Press 
Britain's opposition Labor Party, breaking from its bipartisan stance on Northern Ireland, yesterday called for the eventual unification of the British province and the Irish Republic. Twelve hundred delegates at the party's annual conven­tion endorsed a leadership policy document aiming for a united Ireland "based on agreement and consent and achieved by negotia­tions between Britain and the Irish government," said Don Concan­non. the party's spokesman on Irish affairs. The policy could be implemented if Labor defeats the ruling Conservative Party in elec­tions that must be held before February 1984. The government can call elections before that date if it wishes to. -AP 
Six men with daggers hijacked an Indian jetliner to Lahore. Pakistan, yesterday, freed 60 of the I I 7 people aboard and demanded the Indian government release a jailed Sikh indepen­dence leader and pay a SSOO,OOO ransom, an Indian official said. The official, who requested anonymity, said the hijackers set a deadline of I 0 a.m. tomorrow for the ransom to be paid but did not say what would happen if the money was not delivered by that time. "They will announce their next move later," the official added. The Indian government in New Delhi said it would "deal tlrmly" with the hijack­ing, but did not elaborate. Indian Prime Minister Indira Gandhi was on a ~tate visit to Australia and had no comment on the hijacking. ­
AP 

The parents ofa two year-old suburban Detroit boy who was killed by a pet wolf earlier this month are suing the owner, keeper, seller and breeder of the animal. The suit, tiled· Monday in Wayne County Circuit Court, asks the court to determine damages in the mauling death of Eric Turner of Wayne, who died Sept. 13 about three hours after he wandered into a neighbor's yard where the animal was chained and was attacked. Defendants in the suit are the animal's owner, Brian Walsh of Wayne; the neighbors who were keeping the animal at the time of the incident, Royce and Barbara Sissom; and Don Burroughs of Homer, who sold the wolf to Walsh. Also named as a defendant is an unknown breeder of the animal, 
believed to be from Minnesota. -AP 
Dr. Leon Bemard, a professor at Notre Dame for 31 years, was stricken by a heat attack Sunday at his home. He is reported to be in good condition at St. Joseph's Hospital. Tests were run Mon­day on Prof. Bernard, and, at the advice of his doctors, he will remain in the hospital for approximately two weeks. He will then return home for two weeks of rest before coming back to Notre Dame. Prof. Bernard's classes will not be canceled as he plans to videotape his lectures while he is recovering. Prof. Bernard is a member of the His­tory Department, specializing in French and European History. He joined the University in 1950 as an assistant professor. -The Ob­sen,er 
President Reagan ordered the Coast Guard yesterday to halt the flow ofillegal aliens from Haiti and other Carib­bean countries into the United States. "The entry of undocumented aliens from the high seas is hereby suspended and shall be prevented by the interdiction of certain vessels carrying such aliens," Reagan said in a proclamation. Reagan said the entry of illegal aliens is "a serious national problem detrimental to the interests of the United States. "A particularly difficult aspect of the problem," he added, "is the continuing illegal migration by sea of large numbers of undocu­
mented aliens into the southeastern United States." -AP. 
The 1980 slaying ofa Brinks guard in the robbery ofa 
K-mart store has resulted in the conviction ofthree men by a Marion 
County Circuit (:ourt. The jury deliberated a little over two hours 
before returning the verdict against the men involved in the SSO,OOO 
heist. Before deliberations began. Prosecutor Stephen Goldsmith 
told jurors it was their duty to tlnd the three -brothers Gregory and 
Earl Resnover and Tommie Smith -guilty and w "tell this com­
munity we won't tolerate it." In closing arguments, Goldsmith 
pointed to defendant Earl Resnover and said. "He helped," then 
pointed to Smith and said, "He helped," and tlnally pointed to 
Gregory Resnover and said, "He killed." Smith and the Resnover 
brothers were charged with murder. robbery and conspiracy to 
commit robbery in the Aug. 4, 19HO slaying of guard William Sieg 
and the robbery ofthe store on North Keystone Avenue. Goldsmith's 
commt·nts came after defense attorneys attempted Monday to dis­
credit prosecution witnesses and show that the three had alibis on 
the day of the murder and robbery. Asentencing date of Oct. 22 has 
been set. -AP. 

Evangelist Billy Graham's ~ire. Ruth, is 
reported in excellent condition as she recovers from total hip re­
placement surgery at the Mayo Clinic in Rochester. Minn., a clinic 
spokesman said Tuesday. Graham said his 61-year-old wife received 
a letter from President Reagan and has also received !lowers. candy 
and get-well cards from people around the country. Mayo Clinic 
surgeons performed the hip replacement Aug. 26 at Methodist 
Hospital. -AP. 

Mostly cloudy with !'>cam·red thundershowers today. High in the upper 60s to low 70s. Thundershower!'> likely tonight and early tomorrow. Low tomorrow night in the mid SOs and the high tomorrow in the low to mid '"'Os. Chance of rain SO percent today increasing to 60 pncent tonight. -.4P 

Do students have 'Mardi Blahs?' 
This year, Mardi Gra~ will undergo changes in format due to Bishop William McManus' directive to all Cath­olic institutions last year, prohibiting gambling for charitable causes in South Bend and Fort Wavne. 
The directive is the result of an incident. that took place in Fort Wayne in 19HO. A Catholic parish in Fort Wayne held a fund-raiser, which involved gambling. A Fort Wayne newspaper photographed the activities and published an article which questioned whether the charitable end justified the gambling. weeks after Notre Dame's, McDonnell believes the 


The proceeds from the Notre Dame Mardi Gras do band proposal is a detlnite possihility. nor all go to off-campus charity organizations. Both Student Government and the Student llnion 
Volunteer groups at Notre Dame receive about SO have pledged support in planning an 'alternative' Mardi percent of the protlt. These organizations include Big Gras. Brothers/Big Sisters, and the Council for the Retarded. Student Body President Don Murday said that he 
McDonnell says the rationale behind allocating Mardi would offer whatever assistance he could in planning Gras proceeds to on-campus groups is to enable them the dances and parade."We would like to have some· to spend additional time on volunteer work. thing during that time frame," he added. "Something 
"We don't want them to spend all their time raising concrete, that students will enjoy." funds in order to have activities,"he said. "Ifwe can give Student Union Director Bill Lawler claims that the them the funds, they can spend more time working with Student Union will give Mardi Gras the proceeds from children over at Logan, or tutoring at Sister Maria's or one of their scheduled concerts. working with the elderly or the handicapped, or assist­Lawler noted that the Student Union has the man­ing juveniles who are wards of the court. power to see Mardi Gras through the planning 
"The more time they can 
stages."We have enough spend with people, the more people and the experience effective and the more through involvement in so­rewarding thdr work is cial comissions to be of going to be. help,"Lawler said. 
Bishop McManus' What Mardi Gras seems to directive prohibits raffles, lack at this point is support bingo, cards, dice, and from individual students. wheels, most of which are McDonnell notes that he familiar activities at the has received suggestions for Notre Dame Mardi Gras. Mardi Gras from students, 
Student Activities Direc­but no students have offered tor James McDonnell men­to take charge of the events. tions several alternative Lawler adds that Mardi Mardi Gras activities in an Gras organization is sig­article which appeared in nitlcantly behind last year's Monday's Observer, progress. emphasizing the need for Although Student student support in order for Government and the Stu­the activites to succeed. \ 'I· ' dent Union are offering as­
This year Mardi Gras will sistance, Mardi Gras needs last for two days instead of the previous eight, and the participation from individual members of the student tentative schedule of activities includes a benefit con­body in order to ensure success. 
cert, a variety ofdances, and a parade. Last year, the Mardi Gras had one ofthe lowest profit Bruce Springsteen and Billy Joel are the top perfor­totals in its history. McDonnell attributes this to the mance choices for the concert. 'had press' resulting from Bishop McManus' gambling 
According to McDonnell, there are plans for a directive. number of dances, which would all take place at the In order for Mardi Gras to suceed this year, McDon­same time in a variety oflocations on campus. nell needs more student support, as soon as possible. 
The dorms , LaFortune, the Rockne Memorial, and the North Dining Hall are all possibilities for the dances. "Stepan will probably not be used for a dance. because Observer notes._______, 
of it~ distance from campus," McDonnell noted. 
One dance, designed to attract the South Bend com­munity, would take place at the ACC. "The ACC was selected for this dance because it has a liquor license," McDonnell said. 
A student from new Orleans suggested a parade for the day that the dances take place. There "Vas also a proposal to contract a band, preferably one ofthe bands that will be performing at the New Orleans Mardi Gras. Since the New Orleans celebration takes place two 
The_Qbs_eryer 
Design Editor......... ............... Greg Swic:rcz Dt!sign Assistants...... . . . ...... Tim Nc:dy Layout Staff... ......... llruce Oakky 
l)•pesetter... . ..... ................. Ron Joe 
.vewsEdi::Jr .. Cathy Domanico 
Cop)• Editor... . ....... Vah:rk Ev.an~ 
\j}(Jrts Cop)' Ec/itor .... ........ Skip Desjardin l)•fJist... . .. .Jeanine llynes .\)•stems Control .................. Hnu:e Oakley NIJ IJ<1y Erlitor... .. ........... Paul \1cGinn 
S.IIC Day Editor.... .......... \1ary Kay Hogan Ad Dt•sign ..... ·--·--Fran & Bob. etc. 
Photographer... . ......... Tom (>'Brien Gut!sl Appetlrances... . .... The Movc:rs The Shaker> 
Donnc.:r und bhlzt:n Proddc:rs 
.. ,\1akt: 'em Jaugh'' 
The Observer (USPS 598 920) IS published Monday through Fnday and on home football Saturdays. except dunng exam and vacat1on penods. The Observer IS published by the students of Notre Dame and Sa1nt Mary s Col­lege Subscnpt1ons may be purchased for $25 per year ($1 5 per semester) by wnt1ng The Observer. P 0 Box Q Notre Dame. lnd1ana 46556 
The Observer IS a member of The Associated Press All reproduction nghts are reserved 
Second class postage pa1d at Notre Dame. lndiana4G556. 
Have you witnessed a crime which should be reported? Do you have newsworthy information which might turn into an important article? Is there ~omething we should he covering? If so, call The Ob­seruer news department and let us know. \X'e welcome any and all contributions from our readers -call 21-!3-7471, H66I. or 171 S, 24 hours a day, Sun­Jay through Thursday. All source~ are guaranteed c<mtldentialit\'. 


The Observer 


Air traffic controllers get unetnploym.ent 
Striking air traffic controllers in at lea'it seven states are now or soon will he eligible for unemployment benclits, an Associated Press spot check showed yesterday. 
But most states arc denying un­employment compensation checks to the controllers, either on grounds that their strike is illegal or that they have been fired for misconduct. In some states though, even fired workers arc eligible for benefits af. ter a six to eight week waiting period. 
President Reagan fired about 
12,000 air traffic controllers 
nationidc shortly after they struck 
on Aug. 3, violating both an oath 
they had taken and a federal law. 
Some of the 28 striking control­
lers in Vermont have been collect­
ing unemployment benefits from 
the state, and the rest have gotten 
other jobs, according to Donald Ker­
nan, spokesman for the controllers' 
union there. 
Alaska, Arkansas and Missouri will be digible for henctits, officials in those Mates said. Controller applications for un­employment benefits still arc under review in Delaware, Maryland, In­diana, Georgia, Ohio and Hawaii. In Wisconsin. about 30 control­lers had het'n recdving benefits of up to $1 75 a week. But the Fedt•ral Aviation Administration said yester­day it had taken steps to halt funher payments. 
Controllers denied unemploy­mt'nt compensation in California. florida, Nt'w York and several other states have appealed, hut so far have not won the right to draw benefits. 
Unemployment benefits are paid through a payroll tax on employers. In the: case of the controllers the cmployer is tht.· federal govcrnmt.•nt. 
In Connecticut, the labor com­missioner decided Monday that state law provided unemployment compensation can be denied only to work<·rs fired for "repeated, willful misconduct." 
The st.ate law also prohibits pay· ments to striking workers, hut since the controllers had been tired they 
Oak Room Cafe support dwindles 
BY MICHELE DIETZ 
.Neu·s Slt1jj 
The Oak Room Cali: originally opened last Novt·mht.·r in response to ~rudt·nt!> who wanted a place to eat at night on tht· South Quad hut, "ncnls ~tudt'nt support to make it work," an:ording to Peggy Brock, ~upt.·n·i~or oftlw Cafe. 
~ht· continu<:d saying that "not rnanv stud<:nt!j are a war<: of the Oak Roo~. Everyont' goes to the Huddk hecause it's hn·n around so long, but w<: hav<: hettcr 4ualit) foml hcc:tuse it'~ made l<l ord<:r... 
Hrock also said that much poten­tial lies in the cafe. Plans for the future indud<: ~tudent coupons, spe­cial ~andwiches, and pnhaps, music, such as a jukebox." 
Studt·nt~ art' in disagrt'emem about tht.· addition of music. Many usc the Oak Room as a study area, hut some studt'nts think that music would add a nice touch. A final deci­-sion will be left up to the students. 
The Oak Room Cafe is now open on Mondays through Thursdays from 9 to 12 p.m., and on Fridays and Saturdays from 9 p.m. to 2 a.m. 
were not considered striking workers under state law. 
Pete Schanck, of the New Jersey Labor and Industry Department, said about 60 striking controllers there could stan receiving benefits in the next week or two. 
The Oregon Employment Divi­sion says it has denied applications for jobless benefits filed by .33 fired air traffi(' controllers and the ap­plications of l I others are being reviewed. 
Asimilar situation exists in Alaska, where officials say the fired control­lers will be eligible for unemploy­ment benefits in mid-October. About 150 controllers have filed claims. 
Cecil Malone, director of un­employment insurance for Arkansas says about two dozen traffic control­lers have filed for benefits. 
Wednesday, September 30, 1981 -page 3 


Peggy Cronin and Wayne Pellegrini, from Psy­ing at Notre Dame at last nighrs HPC meeting. chological Seroices, speak about problem drink-(photo by Tom O'Brien) 
Within several weeks, striking 
controllers in New Jersey, Oregon, c • . 

lVl1rights lawenters House deliberations 
WASHINGTON (AP) -A 16­year-old civil rights law credited for encouraging hundrt.·ds of thousands of black and other minority citizens to register to vote comes up for a test in the I louse this week. 
Debate on the 1965 Voting Rights Act that · President lyndon B. Johnson considered abench mark of his administration will begin in the Democratic-controlled House on Wednesday. 
The law now requires nine states, most ofthem in the South, and some cities and counties in 1.3 other states to gt·t prior approval from the .Justice Department for any n:districting plans and election rule changes. That provtston would expire nt'xt August ifnot extendt'd. 

Supporters of t'Xtension say they hope to get a strong vote in the House so it wili have a better chance in the Republican-controlled Senate where a tough fight is expcctt'd. 
Senate Judiciary Committee Chairman Strom Thurmond ofSouth Carolina, one of the nine states covered by the so-called pre­clearance provision, has said he would support extension only it is expanded to cover all 50 states. 
United Way drive seeks large returns· 
By MARK WORSCHEH 
News Staff 
United Way collections will begin the week of Nov. 1-i, and Notre Dame Co-chairmen Scan Digan and Jot' Orie are hoping for at least 80 
percent participation in the drive. 
.. Last year, the big push was going from lll to $2," said Digan. "We endt'd up getting about SHOOO, which is between 65-70 pt-r<.·ent of tht' student body on campus. This year, we're going to phase in off· campus a little more, and we hope t(Jr a very su<.:cessful drive." 
Digan and Orie will ask studems tn contribute $2 wwards the United Way campaign during tht' wet'k. The collecting will be donc in the dorms, and totals will ht.• graphed in The Ob­sen,er. The graphs will also show the dorm's total trom last year. 

Orie said he hopes the graphs will stir some "friendly competition" to raise not only more than other dorms, hut to better their·previous year's total as well. 
Next wt'ck1 Orie hopes to havt' a postt'r put together advertising the ND United Way campaign. He said that some familiar faces, induding those ofCoach Gt'rry Faust and Eniil 
T. Hofman, would likely appear on them. 
All monies collected from tht~ campaign will go to tht· St. Joe's chapter of the United Way. Orie wished to emphisize that this chap­ter does not support abortion­funding agt'ncics. 
"We have faith in the students," said Orie, "and we know they will bt' giving their fair share." 

TEST PREPARATION SPECIALISTS SINCE 1938 

for lntormallon About Olher CtO .ters In More Than 85 US Colies & Abroad Outside NY Slate CALL TOLL FREE: 100·223·1712 
Supporters of extension say that 
would effectively kill enforcement 
of tht' law because the Justice 
Departmt'nt lacks the resources to 
revit'w election changes by every 
state and local government. 
The law has been extended twice, 
but in the conservative climatt' now 
dominating Washington, it has been 
criticized as an unfair intrusion into 
states' rights. Critics say the South 
has bet'n punished enough for such 
discriminatory pranices as poll 
taxes and !itt' racy tests. 
A house .Judiciary subcommittee. 
however, has heard testimony that 
practices designed to limit black 
voting still exist. 
In addition to South Carolina, the 
enforcement provision now covers 
Alaska, Alabama, Arizona, Georgia, 
Louisiana, Mississippi, Texas and Vir­
ginia and some counties or towns in 
Connt'cticut, California, Colorado, 
Florida, Hawaii, Idaho, Massachu­
setts, Michigan, New Hampshire, 
New York, North Carolina, South 
Dakota and Wyoming. 
In other congressional develop­
ments this week: 
-The Senate will vote on today or tomorrow on increasing the ceiling on the the ft'deral debt to S I trillion, the first time it ha~ reached that level. 
-Sen. John Glenn, D-Ohio, is ex­pected to lead an effort to cut off all 
U.S. aid to Pakistan if it hegins testing nuckar weapons. The vote will come as part of a debate later in the wet'k on a S5.H billion foreign aid bill. 
-Secretary ofState Alexander M. Haig Jr. and Defense Secretary Caspar Weinberger will make the formal case to House and Senate committees for selling AWACS planes to Saudi Arabia. A majority of the Senate has indicated opposition to the sale. Efforts are undt:r way to find a compromise that would allow Americans to retain some control of the planes. 
-The president's proposed $13 billion in new budget cuts will come under more scrutiny in the House and Senate. 
Buy 
Observer 

Classlfieds 

ATTENTION 

has been changed to 

lliCID~~TI"IJ ((l)<XJ~ o ~I) ll®~ll tJoQ rPm ~&\!FCIDlli~ 
PRICE is $110 for roundtrip & refreshments 
Leaves the 16th , returns at ND on Friday, 23rd Questions? Jim 1528 or Mike 8854 
IDCID~~CID~ illlii~ 

--------------------------------------------~--­
The Observer Wednesday, September 30, 1981 -page 4 

Defense Secretary Caspar Weinberger appears before a House subcommittee on appropriations on Capitol Hill concerning cuts in the defense budget. ( AP Photo) 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The debate over whether to sell the so­phisticated AWACS spy plane to Saudi Arabia has put the Air Force and the craft's manufacturer in an unaccustomed position: arguing what their electronic marvel cannot do. 
-The argument goes that while the AWACS can provide early warning ofan attack on the Saudi oilfields and direct fighter planes against such an attack, it would be of no use in spying on Israeli aircraft and, if used that way, would be vulnerable to being blown out ofthe sky by fighter jets. 
Plans to sell five of the planes to 
Saudi Arabia are opposed by many 
members of Congress, where 
hearings on the 58.5 billion sale 
begin this week, and by Israel. Here 
are some ofthc issues that have been 
raised about the AWACS and 
answers based on conversations 
with officials ofthe Air Force and the 
Boeing Corp., prime contractor for 
the craft. 
Q:What is an AWACS? 
A:The letters stand for Airborne 
Warning and Control System and the 
plane is officially known as an E-3A. 
Basically it's a'Boeing 707 topped by 
a 30-foot revolving "rotodome," or 
scope, and packed full of electronic 
equipment. 
Under optimum conditions, flying 
at about 30,000 feet, the plane can 
use its radar to see planes approach­
ing in any direction for about 225 
miles or -in the case of high-flying 
craft -about 3SO miles. 
.Japanese 
continuedfrom page 1 

Ididn't know what I'd do," says Mark Mason, a graduate student taking japanese at Columbia this fall with the idea of teaching the language 
Fierce debate 





AWACS sale presents questions 
eventually. "I traveled to Japan. I are tempered by the difficulties of sort of got turned on. It was a new learning it. The attrition rate among world to me, and the more I didn't students is high -50 percent or understand, the more I wanted to more drop the study after a year or learn." two. To be even reasonably literate 
The idealistic reasons many stu­usually requires four to six years. dents have for taking the language Americans have the added dit~ 
ficulty that the Japanese language is 
intertwined with an entirely foreign 
system of politeness that is just as 

r ~ 
NAVY BOYS 
difficult to master. For example, when a person wants to leave anoth­

If you desire financial assistance, 
er person, the word "Iku" is a neutrally polite farewell. "Irassyaru" 

scholarship, or guaranteed job 
signals the superiority of the

opportunities upon graduation; then you 
speaker. And "Mairu" shows more deference.
should enter 
Mrs. Tsunoda, an American whose husband is Japanese, says: "you can break your neck to remember SO

1-2 OCTOBER 
new characters, and then two weeks later you can forget them. You need 

as an important date in your calendar 
physical and emotional stamina that you don't find in any other course of

That is the day we are providing info 
study."

and interviews in all areas of: 
Q:The Israelis are against selling AWACS to the Saudis, maintaining its radar and its ability to guide inter­ceptor fighters would wipe out Is­rael's military superiority over the Arab world. Is this so? 
A:In looking from Saudi Arabia toward Israel, the AWACS would have blind spots in its view created by the mountains ofJordan. To be in a position to watch for Israeli aircraft, the AWACS would have to fly right up to the Saudi-Jordanian border, either near Iraq or near the Sinai Peninsula. In either place, it 
would  be  vulnerable  to  Israeli  
fighter jets attacking from  behind  
the mountains.  

The AWACS could be watched, too, by the Israelis, who have their own American-supplied spy planes and mountaintop radar installations. 
Also, AWACS' radar is designed only to see aircraft and ships, not to monitor movements of troops or tanks. 
But opponents of the sale point out that addition ofthe AWACS <:an't help but strengthen overall Saudi air power and provide a new advantage in any future Mideast war. And they note that the arms deal includes 60 F-1 5 inteceptors. . 
Q:With its limitations, how can the A WACS protect those oilfields? 
A:Back to "optimum conditions." The area of Saudi Arabia along the Persian Gulf is flat. With this open view, the AWACS would be able to see across the gulf and into Iran. 
AWACS radar works by looking down, so it is able to see low-flying aircraft not visible by conventional radar until they are near. Boeing es­timates an AWACS would see a plane approaching at 675 mph about 24 minutes before it reached the oil­fields, while conventional radar would spot such a plane only 4. 5 minutes beforehand. 


Rep. Bob Stump, a Democrat from Arizona's Third District, an­nounced he is running for re-election to the House as a Republican. Stump is the first Democratic congressman to switch parties since the election ofPresident Reagan. ( AP Photo) 

SACRED HEART PARISH

·AVIATION 
a-----SIN81---~ • • .Reagan


·ENGINEERING 
~ ..
We are now formmg a Chotr for the 9: 30 
continuedfrom page I


·PERSONNEL MANAGEMENT 
Sunday Mass in the Crypt. Rehearsals are 
monetary policy holds firmly to its course and is consistently applied."

each Wednesday at 7 : 30 p. m. in the Crypt. 
at Notre Dame. Salaries start from 
While Reagan appcared to blame fiscal mismanagement for much of

All voices welcome --come share in a
$16,000 increasing to $27,500--$40,000 
the world's economic ills, de 

special musiical experience! All students 
Larosiere said the problems of

in 4 years. Openings also available in: 
poorer countries have been com­

welcome facul & staff, too of course! 
pounded by three "external shocks" over the past two years: deteriorat­

·Materials management 
·Business administration 
ing terms of trade, slack demand in

..--RJ---VE--R---CI_T_Y___RE--C--0..-RD--S---,
1 industrialized countries and rising
·Nuclear engineering 
Northern Indiana's Largest Selection of Albums & Tapes. I interest rates. In non-oil developing
·Doctors 

I 1 countries, the balance of payments Why pay more any place else? . I deficits rose from S37 billion m
·Nurses 

C' l.QQ OFF any regular record or tape with ad. 1 1978 H~ 5~4 billion last year, he sai_d.
·Lawyers 

I -.JP ! lif!~it 1 per p_erson I In h1s remarks, Reagan srud Exp1res Oct.-20 ,1981 I achievement of a growing,. . prosperous U.S. economy is the
For more info or appointment for 
59970 US 31 North eOpen till 10 every mght greatest single contribution the
I 1
interview call 317-269-6197 or 
1
3 m1les N<?rth of Campus • ND/SMC checks cashed United States can makt· to restoring next to AI S Supermarket up to $20 over Jthe health ofthe world economy be­
1-800-382-9404, ext. 6197 
purchase amount . -cause of the increased trading op·277-4242 • Record Crates available ponumties that would offer
~ ~ 
L 
~~~---­

--------------~-----~~~~-----------------~ -------------~----------. 
The Observer Wednesday, September 30, 1981 -page 5 
Proxmire opposes 



Senate readies largest debt bill 
WASHINGTON (AP)-Despite a 
by wnight in order for the govern­recently enacted three-year tax cut. long night of protest by Democrat ment to have continued borrowing 
"It would provide the clearest William Proxmire, the Senate was authority when the new tlscal year kind of t·ommunication to the poised )TStt:rday to send President 
begins at 12:0 I a.m.,tomorrow. American people that we mean busi­Reagan a bill allowing the national Proxmire said he was hopeful he ness about curbing inflation," he dt:bt to t:dipse Iii trillion for tht: tlrst 
would "wakt: up senators and others told the St:nate shortly before yield­time. in the Congress." Despitt: abandon­ing the floor. The new ceiling of S1.079 trillion, ing his marathon speed1making, Baker said he would oppose all already approved by the Houst:, 
Proxmire said he would offer an amcndmt:nts to the bill in order to would amount to S4,69.t.20 for amendment that would st:t tht: debt get it passt:d and st:nt to Reagan in every American man, woman and limit at S99S billion. an increase of tim~:. child. At S I per sn:ond, it would $1 0 billion over the current tlgurl·. Amt:ndmt:nts require sending the 
takt: 3I ,6HH years just to count a tril­The $1.079 trillion tlgure is sought bill back to the Democratically con­lion or li>I.OOO,OOO,OOO,OOO. by Reagan and has passt:d the House. trolled lloust:, which has already Proxmire, of Wist·onsin, flailed at 
passnl it o(JnCt: but might balk at tht: mt:asurl· for 16 hours and 12 Adoption of his amendment. endorsing it again. minutes, tht:n gave up his talkf<:st at Proxmire said. would mean that tht: 
Thl· Trt:asury Departmt:nt has I0:27a.m. govt:rnment would ht: on a virtually told Congrt:ss it will run out of cash 
Asked if the lknwcrat's pert(Jr­cash-only basis as of tomorrow, Monday. If its borrowing authority is mance endangered tht: hill's chance requiring additional budget cuts in not t:Xtl·nded, this would nwan that t(Jr passage. St:natt: Republican tlscal 191:!2 of S60 billion to SHO bil­for tht: tlrst timt: in history govcrn­Leader Howard H. Baker Jr. said "I lion instead of the S I_:., billion asked ment checks would not be honored don't think it altered it at all." 
by the administration has proposed when pre!>t:nted for payment, Baker The hill must reach Rt:agan's desk -or a tax increase instead of the said. 
Fall admissions 
Academies set toughest standards 
NEW YORK (AP)-Frt:shmt:n at "Second, thne aren't any wars 
rigorous compt:tition," tht: surn·y the nation's tlve military academies right now. and academics offer thl· said. opportunity for immediatt: employ­
and at top engint:ering schools Thrt:e of the most l·ompt:titivc 
withstood stiffer competition than ment after graduation. And t1nally, 
engint:cring schools -Massachu­ever in gaining admission this fall. with the new conservatism, the cur­
sctts lnstitutt: of Technology, Ronald Numbers, from the Universi~y ofWisconsin, speaks to a according to a survey of kading col­rent sense is it's OK to ht: a military 
California lnstitutt: of Tt:chnology, Centerfor Continuing Education audience last night on 'Medicine' leges and universities. oftkt:r," said lkgener. and Rt:nssdacr Polytt:chnic lnstitutt: in the 'Profession of American History' series. (photo by Tom Tht: number of applicants for this 
-rt:ceived an average of nine pt:r­O'Brien) fall's freshman classes at Wt:st Point, 
The survey, conductt:d by ct:nt mort: applications for this fall 
the Naval Acadt:my, Air Force telephone hetwt:en St:pt. 14 through than a year ago. A total of 1.3,9.36 
Academy, Coast Guard Acadt:my Sept. IH, lookt:d at application applied ro the three schools, and the Merchant Marine Academy trt:nds at IH2 of tht: nation's most compart:d with 12,771:! last yl·ar . 
rose 42 percent over a year ago -compt:titive public and private uni­
Ont: out of thrt:e students was ac­from .31.69"i to 4"i, I2H. according to versities. A total of7HH.69"i students 
ct:pted.

• • . HPC 
the survey by Pt:tnson's Guides, applied to those top schools, up six 
Mt:anwhile, applications for spots Inc., a Princeton. N.j. puhlisht:r of pt:rcent from '.U.94"i a year earlier. 

at eight Ivy League schools grl·w byeducational rdert:nces. Atotal of I46,.3.31 wert: at·cepted, up only 2.H percent, from 1:!6,.376 indiscuss in future mt:t:tings. Somt: of just ont: pt:rct:nt from I·H,H"i2 in

The academies acct:pted only I4 
19HO to HH,272 for this fall's class.

tht: suggestions wne to get up­
19HO.
percent of I9H I applicants 
Tht: t:ight schools surveyed wt:rt: Their ideas on how to correct al­making them nearly twict: as tough 
Harvard, Yale, Brown, Princeton,pt:rclassmen involved in the promo­Of the IH2 schools survcyed, I.3.3

cohol abust: rcvolvt: around tht: stu­to get into as Ivy League schools, Cornell, Columbia, Dartmouth and
tion of responsibk drinking, or to 
had an incrcase in applicants, 4H had
dems hdping cach otht:r. As Cronin which accepted 26 pnct:nt of ap­tht: llnivcrsity of Pennsylvania.
a dt:crease and one had no chang~:.
Mated. "Tht: strongt:st weapon plicants. About HO percent of those "Kids appart:ntly arc .applying to atlnd activities that wert: enjoyabk, Tht: avnage increast: at top schoolsagainst abuse is pt:n prt:ssure. If a acceptt:d actually t:ntert:d tht: lot mort: schools and are increasing­but didn't involve the USt: and abUSt: was .300.
academics this fall, compared with 
ly awart: of othl'f competitive
ofalcohol.

person realizes that his frknds disap­the typical school average of about 
schools ht:sidt:s the Ivy Leagues," provc of hi~ drinking, he will he Kt:gs and social spact: art: only a "iO pt:rcent. 
"This means mt:mbers ofthe I9H I lkgt:nt:r said.
freshman class withstood mort:

nwrt· likdy to accept and try to fraction of tht: rcal issuc of alcohol 
"All tlvt: academics art: complete­
solvt: the problem; howevt:r, if his 
ly fret:, and with all tht: current talk
friends condon~: and l'ncouragt: his 
abuse. Tht: IIPC has rt:alized that if about the high cost ofcolkge t:duca­
habit. ht· may not t"\'t:r realizt· that he 
they lose tht: keg issue. they lost: on­tion, more and mort: families set: tht: 
ha~ a StTiou~ problem." 
ly an issue. If they lose in the tight academics as an cxcdlent al­llow to rl-cognizl· an alcohol against alcoholism. they'n· lost tcrnative," said publisht:r Peter problem, is what the II PC plans to somt:thing more. Hegener in an intnview. 
Windowless bathroom 

Three die in day care center fire 
IIOliSTON ( AP) -Two girls and "It had to be tht: most horribk potty-training thosc kids in a a hoy were kilkd )'t:Stt:rday in a tlrt: tkath that can be imagint:d," said bathroom in the back, and thert: was at a day l·art: ccntl·r after they Deputy ChidCarlllooker. "Tht: kids no way out exccpt the door they hl-came trappt:d in a bathroom with­couldn't get out and tht: adults came in." out windows, the tlrt· dt:partmt:nt couldn't gt:t in." 
Tht: tire was sccn coming out of 
~aid. llookn said the tlrt: itsdf was put the roof just hdore .3 p.m. andlkputy Firt: Chid Carl llookl·r out in about I 0 minutcs. 
Hooker said it was probably ac­said 22 other childrl·n escaped un­"It was cont1ned to half of ont: cidental. Fire investigators wcre at
hurt and there wcre no othn room." llookt:r said. "Wt: makt: them the scene. 
casualtk~. like this t:vt:ry day. But tht:y wert: ~~~~~~~~~ ...... ~~~~~~~~
Thl· dead children wert: t<JUnd in a windowkss bathroom of tht: lxarn­ing Star day carl· centt:r. An : ~ Applications now available for ll'mployt:e, Sally Thomas. said sht: knt:w the thrt:e children Wt:rl' still inside the burning building, but heat committee chairmen


f ·'W t 
and smokt: prt:vcnted a rt:scut:. 
"I couldn't get bat·k in," a sobbing t ' Thomas told rcporters. "I wt:nt back t for SENIOR FORMAL t and got one but tht:n I couldn't go back any mort:." t t 
Parents ht:gan arriving at the cen· tt:r during the aftt:rnoon, subbing t t and looking for their childrt:n. 
t all this week in ND and SMC Student t
Harris County medical authorities identitled tht: dead children as 
: Activities Office. Due on Friday, Oct. 2 t 
Shemarian Brooks, two years-old, Chelsea Strghill, thret:, and Randrick 
t Also apply now for a Committee worker: f
Frazier, two, all of Houston. The 
cause of dt:ath was not immt:diatdy 
f Job description on application. : 
determint:d. 




L----------------­

THENAZ 

Thursda_y; Open Stage 9-11:00 
Frida_y: "The Mark Davis Show" with: Matt Feeney, Dan Keusel, Ritger, Role, Mollinelli and Dan Brahier 9:00-? 
Saturda_y: Sarah Wachter & Carol Cahalan 9';30-10:30 
open stage 10:15-? 

CCCCCCCCI 
Wednesday, September 30, 1981 -page 6 


Editorials 
Great Society a step 


•

Ill right direction 
It seems increasingly fashionable these days to write off the anti­ Prof. Richard D. Coe  
poverty programs of the late '60s and  
early '70s as complete failures which  
more than likely harmed the people  Opinion 
they  were  designed  10  assist  more  
than  it  helped  them.  In  a  recent  

column in The Observer (Sept. 18) particular year, dependency defined Andrew Cochran jumps on the as more than half of the household's bandwagon, claiming that "a serious income coming welfare. Fur­<.:ase cannot be made for the proposi­thennore, for those people who were tion that the Great Society programs ever dependent on welfare, less than have improved ... the condition of the one-quarter were long-term depend­poor." Let's look at the facts. ent, that is, dependent on welfare in 
One very basic measure of the at least eight of the ten years. In sum, status of low-income households in only eight percent of the people who our society is the extent 'of serious received welfare were permanently malnutrition and hunger which is dependent on it. The conclusion is present. Two years in which the food clear: most welfare recipients are status of poor households in 1977 never dependent on welfare; for was compared to that which existed those that are at some time, most are 
in 1967. The report concluded, "Our dependent for a relatively short first and overwhelming impression is period of time. One of the few distinctions in my 
New Nixon biography misses mark 
"evidence," the protessor maKes that there are far fewer grossly mal­Cochran further claims that the inclusion
life was in President Nixon a subconscious brother­nourished people in this country Great Society programs resulted in a
Gurry Wills
slayer. today than there were 10 years ago." virtual cessation in economicNixon's White House enemies list. So I have rarely been accused of 
Well, most of us have brothers, The report cited the food stamp growth. The fact of the matter is that being too nice to Richard Nixon. But 
and lots of them are dead. But that program as the major reason for this from 1970 to 1979 real per capita a new biography, ··Richard Nixon,'' does not make us fratricidal; and the Outrider improvement. income in the United States increased by the late Fawn Brodie, criticizes evidence against us is as strong as 19 percent, or at an average annual 
me for thinking Nixon was basically 

that against Nixon. Professor Brodie rate of 1 . 8 percent. This is not a 
enemies adopt his methods_ The Another way of viewing the effect decent before his lirst California 
makes the dubious assertion that picture of stagnation. Perhaps 
same thing can be said of Nixon. of welfare programs on the economic political campaigns. 
Robert Kennedy would have been Cochran believes this was not good
Professor Brodie rightly says that position of the poor is to ask how 
Professor Brodie a elected in 1968 if he had lived; so enough. Maybe. But to blame the
was psycho­Nixon was a master of the baseless many people would fall below the of­

historian. you and for that Nixon became president by Ken­Great Society anti-poverty programs
see; innuendo -but she says it in a book ficial poverty line if it were not for 
school. everything has to be inter­nedy's death; which means that he while overlooking the role played by 
that has acquired the very same mas­the welfare income they receive. The
(subconsciously) willed that death. the Vietnam War, the OPEC cartel,preted in terms of a blighted 
tery. evidence indicates that in any given
This so-called "fratricide" theme and the worldwide agriculturalchildhood. If Nixon was a liar later, 
There seems to be a continuing year the number Of households in he had to be a liar then. This book 
is all a trick of terminology. failures of the mid-'70s is to ignore
need to kick Richard Nixon around. poverty would increase by about 20
Fratricide does not describe the death the most significant economic eventsbrings back Chesterton's criticism of Ronald Reagan is a nice man with a percent if no welfare income were
of a brother, but the murder of a of the decade. 
the ··new psychology" of his day, mean philosophy. Jimmy Carter was available. Perhaps more significant­

brother by a brother. Yet Robert I do not wish to claim that thewhich he called the New Calvinism. 
a mean man with a nice philosophy. ly, the number of households which
Kennedy did not kill John Kennedy; Great Society programs have noThe predestinarians thought a man It is tempting to think one has a total­would have spent the entire decade in 
Fidel Castro did not kill Raul Castro. problems. Clearly they do. Plaguedwas damned from birth. The psycho­ly unredeemable target in the mean poverty would have increased by al­
Nixon did not kill his own brothers; by low participation rates, inade­historians think he is doomed from man with the mean views who most 70 percent if it were not for the 
and, though Professor Brodie says he quate benefits for many, incompletechildhood. The healthy human in­resigned from the presidency in dis­existence of the Great Society
felt as if he had, she produces no coverage on the one hand and mul­stinct is to presume a decency in grace. But Nixon won the presidency programs.
evidence-none for that assertion. tiple coverage on the other, and anothers till they prove it is not there. 
by a landslide in 1972 -and would 
The psycho-historian a inefficient and often overbearing ad­The book weasels through a longpresumes 
have won in 1968 even against
section in bad taste on Nixon's Cochran apparently would dismiss ministration, they have not resulteddepravity even before it can display 
Robert Kennedy. The 13 percent of
friendship with Bebe Rebozo. not these accomplishments with the in the elimination of poverty in ouritself. 
the vote that went to Wallace in 1968
brave enough to assert a homosexual claim that the anti-poverty programs society. But progress has been made. 
Since these people assume the 

would have been scared in Nixon's
tie, yet repeatedly suggesting it. This have "enslaved" the poor. By this I Perfection is hard to come by in anydepravity, they do not have to prove 
direction by a Kennedy campaign. If
resembles the late Richard Rovere's take it he means that welfare endeavor, and we should not let theit. Thus Professor Brodie's book 
Nixon was totally unredeemable, so
discussion of Joseph McCarthy's al­bec<'me mistakes the decade
plays with wild surmise and sugges­recipients dependent on of last dis­
were the hordes of Americans who tion. more like a literary critic'streat­
leged homosexuality, a discussion public assistance as a means of sup­courage us from continuing to try to 
voted for him. But life is not as
that ends with the admission that the port and lose any initiative to im­eliminate the deprivation faced by all ment of themes in a poem than like a 
simple -and as dark -as the New
allegation was never confirmed-as prove their position. too many members of our society.
psychiatrist's analysis of real life. 

Calvinists paint it. Not even Nixon
if the impossible burden of proving a Again, the facts do not support Unfortunately, Cochran'sThe book talks much of· 'fratricide.·· 
deserves the indiscriminate kicks and 
negative were on the subject of the such a claim. In the ten-year period proposals will not move us towardNixon's brothers died. The Kennedy 
blows he is getting. He deserves bet­
book, rather than on the author who between 1969 and 1978 one quarter that goal. Boiled now to its essen­brothers died. Whittaker Chambers 
ter. Anyone does. Those who deny
brought up the charge in the first of the population received welfare at tials, his argument is simply a call for had a brother who died. Alger Hiss 
the humanity of others lose their 
time. only more for the less for the
had a brother who didn't. Nixon did place. some However. about rich and The evil thing about McCarthy own. one-third of the welfare recipients poor, packaged in the new container
not like Fidel Castro's brother. Raul. 
Unil•ersal Press Syndicate 
was that he ·made so ~many of his were ever dependent on welfare in a of supply-side economics but containing the same old ingredients of trickle-down effects, less taxes on the rich, less assisstance for the poor, Out of these facts, treatin them as 


P.O. Box Q 
etc .. This has long been an article of faith among the rich-faith becausefrom occasionally getting drunk ... is cerned about anyone and everyone, Dear Ediror: there has never been any convincing

a waste of time" is socially irrespon­especially those who have become John Macor is certainly entitled to sible. On the contrary, that's how al­"drunk." That's what being drunk is his viewpoints on kegs, drinking. 
empirical evidence to support the

Macor column 
supply-side arguments. Our societyall about -losing responsible con­etc. However I do believe he has 

draws rebukes the article, the bartender, the friend trol of one· s drinking. shown his own naivete by indicating indeed faces some major problems, problems which call for fresh ideas coholism is prevented. The author of 
The University is not just the ad­that he does not believe that any col­from readers an obligation to help when a person ministration or the dorm staff. The lege student or graduate can go 
of the drinker, or the University has 
and solutions based on a realistic un­cannot self-author the control needed University is students, faculty, ad­through life without getting drunk. 
derstanding of our industrial Dear Editor: to stop drinking. One sign of an al­ministration, staff-everyone. Any He also said he would .commend such economy. Solutions based on The world is not so easily divided coholic is that he or she cannot con­
obligation you place on the Univer­a person. abstract economic philosophies sity is a responsibility we all share. There is no need to commend me. 
dredged up from the previous simply 

into alcoholics and non-alcoholics, trol themselves when they drink Each of us must care enough for one even though I have never been 
will not work. 

as the article by John Macor ("'The alcohol. Drinking Game," Sept. 23) would If you impose an obligation upon another here, just as we care when drunk. I never wanted to be. I also seem to indicate, nor would the University to "seek out those someone in our family is in need of don't intend to get on a soap box and problematic drinking go away if kegs who can no longer responsibly con­our help and support. say non-drinkers are better than 
Prof Richard D. Coe is l/11 assis­

would be allowed on campus. trol their drinking... then you are Thomas W. Gedeon drinkers or any other such nonsense. 
tant prt~f'essor ofeconomin· at Notre

South Bend Michael Molinelli 
To state. "To try to stop people asking the University to be con-
Dame.
South Bend 


Editorial Board and Department Managers 




==Ihe=Obset:Ver 
........ .john McGrath SMC Executive Editor .. .............. Mary Agnes Carey

Editor-in-Chief.......... ... .
BoxQ, Notre Dame, iN 4(J55(1 
......Tom .Jackman S,UC News Eclitor ...... .. ........Cathy Domanico

Managing Editor.
The Observer is an independent newspaper published· b\ the students o! rhc ....... Lynne Daley Photo Editor ......John .\tacor
Execufil'e !Veu•s Editor University of Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. It does not nelessanh Neu•s Editor.................. .....Tim Vcr~'t'ltotti reflect the policies of the administration of eHher insriturion. The news 1s reported Neu'S Editor ................... ___ ..............Kc:lli Flint Business ,Uanager .. Ric:h Coppola as accurately and as objectively as possible. Editorials represent the optnlon uf a Senior Copy Editor........ ... Mary Fran Callahan Controller................... .... . ...joe Mult1ur majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries. opinions. and lerrers are the v1ews 
Sports Editor.................... ....\1ichac:l Ortman Adl'ertising Manager.. .. .................. ..:\-lark Ellis Features Editor........... .....Anthony \\'alton Production ManaJ(l!Y.... ..:1-lichac:l Monk
of their authors. Column space is available ro all members of the communu\·. and 
Circulation J1anuger .......................Tom MacLcnnan

the free expression of varying opinions on campus. through letters. 1s encouraged. 
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
Wednesday, September 30, 1981 -page 7 
The Observer will accept classifieds Mon­day through Friday, 10 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. However. classifieds to appear in the next issue must be received by 3 p.m. the business day pnor to msertion. All classtfieds must be prepaid, 

Classifieds e1ther in person or through the 1'1ail. 
REWARD! I need a nde back· from the Desperately need MSU GAs $$ Dtck COPY EDITOR NEEDED TO WORK
Need 2 GAS lor GA TECH and/or
D.C. area dunng October break AFTER 277-0692 SUNDAY EVENING SHIFT. PAID POSI­
NAVY Call FRANK 8820 
[NOTICES j· 
the USC game II you can help call me! TION. ENGLISH MAJORS George · 3182 BROTHER ESCAPING FROM IRAN PREFERRED. CALL MARY FRAN AT
Need 4 TIX to PENN STATE CALL FRANK 8820 
JUST TO SEE NOTRE DAME PLAY!!! He THE OBSERVER-1715. Roomate wanted to share expenses. In­needs 2 ttckets to MSU game PleaseUSED BOOK SHOP HOURS WED 
terested parttes contact Sandy 282-1942 don t dtsapp01nt htm and call Pat at 8847 Tncta likes peaches Well. maybe lUSt the
SAT . SUN 9-7 CASPERSON. 1303 NEED 6 MSU GA TIX FOR FAMILY$$$
after 3p m fuzz
BUCHANAN RD NILES CALL 272-8156 Need GA TICKETS to any home lootball RIDERS needed to MANSFIELD, OHIO game CALL TIM x3156 MB. choose your appendengagesll! 
NEED RIDE TO HOUSTON TEX FOR I need four of those USC ttx. Call Tom at 
area Leave FRI OCT 2. back Sun Call

OCTOBER BREAK CALL CHRIS AT 4626
Chns 1771. NEEDED. 4 NAVY GA TICKETS JOE. Duck. cute couples! Meva don like thatx 1678 ANYTIME. WILL SHARE USUAL 
8862 Bang! But she m1sses Bnan 
NEED USC TIX. One student and G.A 
Desperately need nde to New York City

I know 11 s lnghlentng thought, but are you Call Steve 3661 
for fall break Wtll share expenses. etc TICKETS. I NEED 3 STUDENT AND 2 I could really use 2 MSU ttckets. I mean.
getttng ENGAGED tn the near luture? If 
Ttm. 3249 G A FOR MICH STATE CALL KEVIN don t put yoursell out or anythtng. but tf
you re not ftlthy nch and don t know the Need 2 GA MSU 11x Money IS no object 
6758 OR 6821 you re stuck because we re out of the
ltrst thtng about dtamond nngs. setttngs. Call Susan 4 t -4361 championship ptcture. or because MSU tS
etc . gtve me a call I m the campus rep lor 
Wtll pay or trade almost anythtng lor Mtch. of Vanderbtlt caliber (tf that). or tf you just 
a very reputable dtamond tmporter '" So NEED!!! Two G.A TIX ForMS U. Game

FOR SALE 

St ltcket lor Dad Call Mtke at 865 7 platn don't care. call Mark at 277-0617Bend They re professtonals and carry an MONEY NO OBJECT !!! Call Gordon enormous tnventory at nearly cost You 3001 HELP I NEED AN EXTRA TICKET TO ATTENTION. BOSTON BUS the Stgnupowe 11 to yourself Ia check tnlo thts! Call Couch for sale. good condtlton. Call after 
Mark at 277-0617 4 p m at 272-445 7 ANN IIVEBER SAYS THE PRETTY GIRL THE MSU GAME HAVE 2-WILLING TO has been changed to MON OCT 5. from PAY tn Lafortune Bus leaves the 16th FOR IN Cost IS $ t t 0 
DOESN T NEED TICKETS. BUT HER TRADE FOR 3 AND THE DIF­7-8 p m 
$$$$ To all those planntng to nde the N.EED TICKETS? I have one MSU. USC. ROOMMATES STILL DO. SO IF YOU FERENCE THIRD FACT and returns before USC. 
COULD USE AN EXTRA TICKET FOR round lnp Queslions? Mtke 8854 or Jim
PHILADELPHIA CLUB BUS and Ga Tech ttcket I need Navy ttckets CAN HELP THEM OUT WITH GAS FOR please try to get your money tn by Fnday. GA or STU . for trade call Jtm at t 380 
ANY GAME CALL 6773 EACH OF THE REMAINING HOME 1528 
GAMES UNDER THE SAME ARRANGE­Chuck Bergere x8702 NEED 2-4 NAVY GAs WILL PAY OR MENT-EXCEPT FOR FLORIDA STATE MSU student t1x or NAVY GA needed TRADE FOR TICKETS. CALL MONTY -NEED 3 FOR THAT GAME CALL DAVE tmmedtately-Mtke 8854 
Dave Zatt x6740 

1068 I -3546 BEACH BOYS TIX FOR SALE! MAIN 

TICKETS

ATTENTION L I ER"S OCT BREAK 
BUS, LEAVING OCT 16. RETURNING DESPERATELY NEED t student & 2 I need 2-4 MSU or FSU GA TIX. my FLOOR-4th row a1sle & 6th row center
OCT 23 CALL JOHN. 8437 Penn St. licket wanted. please call Donna 
GAs lor lam!ly Please make a ntce gtrl Grandmama and Famtly to see!!! There Call x7815 & ask lor Gati-Mane CONGRATS CHICAGO STING!!! Soccer at6771 happy. Call Nancy at SMC 4435 
wtll be a reward. and I am wtlhng to wheal­
and-deal. tor 11 If I don t find any TIX. my ATTN DETROITERS Detrott Club room Bowl Champs! 1st Chtlown wtnner tn 18 
& famtly may not want to see me!!!! meeting Wed Sept 30 7PM 20 COVERAGE ol same I Thanks. GAs for M.S.U. Game Please make a very long years and Observer has ZERO Need 4 MICH ST lix. please call 1827. DESPERATELY NEED t student 2 
PLEASE. PLEASE call6380 LaFortune (off south end of ballroom) BE: THERE
mce girl happy Call Nancy at SMC 4435 Horse for lease 1 mtle north of N.O Ex­BIG BUCKS! CALL DAN AT 8428 NEED TIX TO PSU GAMEl WILL PAY 
MEGA BUCKS for 2 MSU ttckets: call Volunteers all
penenced english nders only Call Reeny FS.U. student ttcket for sate Need any x7745 tnterested tn aspects of 234-4985 NAVY GA·s. Wtll buy or trade. call464t 
jOUrnalism work Call Mtke Knaack -232­2 GA FLORIDA STATE TIX NEEDED 

NEED MSU TICKETS FOR EX­0854: Monday & Wednesday morntngs:BADLY. MONEY NO OBJECT Bob 234­Help' Need 2 or 4 NAVY GAS Call Jon ROOMMATES GIRLFRIENDS SIS­or after 4 00 p m
---------------· 0418 
8892 TERS FIANCE ALSO NEED USC
")~'! /,••). '--7~1 

TICKETS. CALL MIKE t 071 Volunteers needed to help supervtse 20 
........... ~ d. UN;...• NEED USC TIX. ONE STUDENT AND 
9-14 yr olds wtth thetr homework Two

WILL PAY ANYTHING FOR SOUTHERN L .. ·---·· ~---· ----------TICKETS CALL URGENT need two MSU ltx student sess1ons/weak.Tuesday & Thursday at
TWO GAs. CALL CHRIS AT 1678 
CAL STUDENT DAN or 234-1441 GA. call1730 4 00 at St Hedw1ck s Pansh Call Lynn Lost. 5 Beach Boys Ttckets. Last seen tn 
Will pay top$ for NO-USC game ttckets 
Fall at Netghborhood Outreach Program B Line of North Dtntng Hall. If you have 
Need 6 lickets. best location avatlable. 
I NEED 2-4 GAS FOR FSU $$$ CALL For SALE student USC Best oH~r Lau;a 287-8932
Please call collect (714) 835-6505 ask lor Tony Herenda or Judt Carlos 
them please call1188 Reward tor rat urn 
DAVE 277-5883 2858 Pardon me I d hke to speak to youLOST. a two tone blue sweat 1acket 
NEED 2-4 GAS FOR MSU OR FSU WILL Wtll trade ANY student ltcket for a Mtch about Football ttcs I need 3 MSU GAs.
DESPERATELY NEED 2 STUDENT OR Reward. Call Vtnce 1238. 
PAY $$CALL JIM 8671 St. GA 11x Call Rocco at 8556 Please call Mtke 3260 GA TIX FOR MSU WILL PAY MEGA 
BUCKS CALL KATHY 2126. THE TIME IS NEAR I need 2 GA ttx for NEED 2 NAVY GA TIX CALL SUSANFOUND COPY EDITORS-Please pick up 1. 2 wks ago. set of keys with Cyclist on 
FSU Will pay$$$ Call Henry at 1480 x80201 critiqued papers. 
Need 4 MSU and 4 USC GA ttx. Johnthem 
1001. NEED several GAs for MSU. call Jtm FLA ST !II I M DESPARATE-WILL PAY IN DESPERATE NEED TO TWO RIDES
2. Blue blanket from GILA Orientatton 
weekend 
1593 ANYTHING FOR TIXS JENNY 41-4507 TO DETROIT FOR OCT. BREAK.
DESPERATELY NEED USC TIX. AMClatm tn Volunteer Servtces Offtce. 
PLEASE CALL TARt AT 7870. LaFortune 
WILLING TO TRADE ROLLING STONE NEED MSU TICKETS. CALL CHOWTIX TO DETROIT SHOW NOV.30 Desperately need 2 or 4 GA Mtchtgan 
7289 ATTENTION! ATTENTION! LOST or borrowed lrom the South Dtntng 
PREFER GAs. BUT MIGHT SETTLE State tix. Call Cathy -8085 
TO ALL GENERAL HOSPITAL FANS Hall -A blue wtndbreaker wtth LENOX tn 
FOR STUDENT TIX. CALL CHRIS AT 
NEWS FLASH FROM THE WEST orange on the back It means a lot to me 1678. Need 2 MSU (student or GA) FOR SALE One MSU Student Ttx. Call
ttx tor 
Tom at x3176 after 6 COAST brothers. Call Ted 8424. 
so tf you know anylhtng about 11. please HEATHERS MOM KILLED DIANA­call Justtn at 3110. Thanks. 
TWO GA FSU TICKETS MONEY NO I need 4 GAs lor MSU Wtll pay $45 cash MORE TO FOLLOW 
OBJECT. CALL BOB 234-0418 WANTED. 2 GA·s or 1 GA & t stud IIX to per patr or $95 for 4 together Call JC atFSU Call VINCE x1238 LOST. 1 Kodak camera tn a black case 
8446 whtle he sttll has money BECI.
Need three GAs tor USC. please help call wllh bug wntten on it Was stltng tn front 
YOU RE THE GREATEST. of library on curb II you found tl call Jane 3691 Desperately need two G.A ttckets for 
Need 3 USC Gas wtll pay $50 each LOVE YA. 
at 7628 Reward M.S.U. game. Tickets for Alumm ol class MJLSteve 1854 
Need as many GA t1x as possible to ANY of 56 If you can help out please call Dtck FOUND. Brown sweater in O'Shag. Call at x3279 or at x3283
home game. lor Chicago area Christan FLORIDA' FLORIDA! ttckets.) I need SUSAN HOELSCHER Brothers Wtll throw m bottle of their best1764 Mike TWO GA. s and TWO student ttckets to CONGRATULATIONS ON YOUR
Brandy John 1658. I NEED 2 NAVY GA. S.$$$ CALL PAUL the Flonda St game. I pay mucho dmero ENGAGEMENT! WERE REALLY GON­
LOST Soccer Ball on Monday. Sept. 28. 8452 
OK? Call Jtm at 8641 NA MISS YOU NEXT SEMESTER BUT I approx 9 p m at Cartier dunng St. Ed's­
Need ttx for October 3 Mich. St. game KNOW YOU AND BOB WILL BE A 
Mornssey game. The ball ts black Call Beth. 6945 NEED MANY FSU TIX (GA). WILL PAY Dad needs 4 USC GA ttx Money IS no ob­GREAT PAIR!!! GOOD LUCK AND STAY 
paneled and clearly marked HUNK BIG BUCKS AND FIRST BORN SON 
feCt Call 2773 IN TOUCH DESPERATELY NEED MSU TIX! CALL CALL TOM t t 75 Please contact Mtke Hunkler. 209 Morns­
YOUR BIG BROTHER say. x3507 Thank You. JULIE 289-6731. 
Parents lhreatentng me' Help' Need 3
HELP!! Need 4-5 FSU GA's tor vtstttng 
FSU GAs Call Bnan 4521 BOSTON CLUB I need M SU ttx! As close to t 0 as I can get lamtly! Save a lite! CALL KEVIN 1658 October Break Bus PRICE NO OBJECT call DOUG 8838 Stgnups Man Oct. 5 
HELP! DAD WANTS TO SEE ND BEAT

FOR RENT 
7-8 pm LaFortune 

I NEED 4 GA TICKETS TO THE NAVY HIS ALMA MATER' NEED 2 GA TIX FOR GAME CALL PETER t 222. MSU GAME DESPERATELY!!!! JULIE 

PERSONALS 
NEED RIDE TO DALLAS OVE. FALL 

3829
RENT TO OWN A COLOR TV OR BREAK! CALL JOHN. 234-9709 
Need MSU and Ga Tech GA sSTEREO CALL SUN APPLIANCE 291­
desperately Call Paul at 1222 Need 2 GA Mtch. St. ttx. Call Jtm 289­
5112 G(ll A SPECIAL FRIEND STUDYING 
5311. 
I need 6 Msu'ttx' Wtll take separates! Wtll OVERSEAS THIS YEAR? PAY TRIBUTE '• HELP!! HELPI! HELP!! GRANDMA AND
UGLY DUCKLING RENT-A-CAR From gtve anythtng short of sex (and that s ne­TO THAT SPECIAl SOMEONE THIS 
THE GANG ARE COMING FROM Need 2 M.S.U Ttx. Wtll Pay $$ Call
$8.95 a day and 8 cents a mtle. Phone gottable!) Call t 068 and ask tor Mtke FRIDAY AFTERNOON FROM t-3 PM 
IRELAND TO SEE THE IRISH TURN Joanne 284-5335. 
259-8459 tor reservattons Help me! JOIN HOST MARVIN GARDENS ON 
M S U GREEN WITH ENVY WHEN WE WSND AM-64 FOR THE DEDICATION WIN. IF HAVE ANY GA. TIX PLEASE Need t F S U. TiCket Wtll Pay $$$ Call
RECENTLY AVAILABLE ONE AND SEX has nothtng to do wtth the tact Jhat 1 SHOW 
CALL CATHY (SMC) 4219 or PATTI (ND) Joanne 284-5335 
THREE BEDROOM APTS. ONE need 2 (two) GA or student ltckets tor 
6763 THANKS.
BEDROOM HOUSE 234-2626 Mtchtgan State. PLEASE call Enn at atlanta! ATLANTA! atlanta! 
NEED TWO GA TIX FOR MICH ST 
7515 (october break )Need Penn State ttx. Call Stan. 3006. or WILL PAY YOUR PRICE Call Chns at
Student houstng. clean. sale. laundry. I need a nde for two tf you are gotng to or 
3008 8776
kttchen. rated supenor $100 tncludes all SMC OKTOBERFEST through Atlanta take us w1th you 291-1405 MUGS AND DAISY SALE Please call Jeb at 8649 or Colleen at 41­
WEAL THY fnend needs 4 good (tnstde NEEDED DESPERATELY-ONE G A 
Thts week tn all dtmng halls 4424 
···r· 

30.above row 20) USC TIX. MONEY IS TICKET TO THE F.S U GAME-WOULD ATLANTA! atlanta' ATLANTA! 
ND APTS 1/3 or 2/3 -sutte. sublease NO OBJECT. WILL TOP YOUR BEST BE WILLING TO TRADE MY U.S.C.
avatlable. reasonable Call Dave anyttme From the GUY IN THE FULL-LENGTH
BID! Call Jtm 283-1863$$$. TICKET! CALL LISA x4354 
at 283· t t 69 or 288-4 t 70 ARMY COAT to the GIRL IN THE RED­DC CLUB--THERE IS A CHANCE THAT DISH SWEATER that I met Thurs around WE CAN CHARTER A SECOND BUS IF 
GRANDMA CRAWLING TO GAME TWO US C. TICKETS FOR SALE!!!
Female roomate needed to share com­mtdmght between Flanner & PW 1 d like ENOUGH INTEREST IS SHOWN SIGN­
NEED USC GAs AND STUDENTS CAROLE x3848 
lortable two bedroom house near lo see you agatnli' Call Ed at 8902 after UPS--OCT t --9:30-t 0.30 P M IN 
CALL ERIC 8580 
campus Call289-673t 11 LAFORTUNE BALLROOM PEOPLE ON 
NEED TO TRADE 2 MSU GAs FOR 2 
THE WAITING LIST MUST BRING 

NEED 2 USC GA TIX FOR MOM AND FLORIDA ST GAs 4696 or 255-9971 
EXPERIENCED TYPIST WILL DO $65 00 BY 10.00 PM TO RESERVE DAD. CALL SANDY 272-5198 
TYPING CALL 287-5162 THEIR SEATS PEOPLE NOT ON THE Need MSU student tiCkets. please call 
WAITING LIST ARE ASKED TO SIGN­


WANTED 

I have 4 GA tixs to Any Home game. and T1m at8923 
ENJOY NEEDLECRAFT? Turn your hob­UP AFTER 1000 PM THOSE ONE­am wtlltng to trade tor Penn. St only. Call by tnto $$$$! Call Roste at 232·2116 4-6 WAYS WHO ARE ON THE WAITING 
4609. Dtstllustoned? Want to get nd of your tiCk­
WANTED GAs FOR ANY HOME p.m datly LIST WILL BE ACCEPTED BUT WE ets whtle they re sttll worth dtddly squat? 
GAMES CALL PAUL 8509 CANNOT•. ACCOMOIIATE ANY AIJIII­
NEED 2 GA TIX FOR NAVY GAME Need 2 F S U GA s and wtll pay top dol­
$$$$$ TIONAL ONE-WAY KillERS (UNLESSWILL PAY!! CALL CASEY AT 227-5626 lar Call Greg at 8377 any ume

DESPERATELY need FL ST TIX--ST or ATLANTA! ATLANTA' ATLANTA! YOU WANT TO KillE t"ROM II.C. TO GA--call Steve 8655 (October break ) I need a nde tor TWO. tf N.ll.)
NEED 2 STUDENT TIX FOR USC GAME HELPIII DESPERATELY NEED STU­
you are gotng to or through Wtll share -MONEY NO OBJECT I!!! CALL CASEY DENT OR GA TIX TO MSU GAME
SENIOR WEEK CHAIRMAN and dnvtng and expenses Call Jeb x 8649 Hey, Ryl
AT 227-5626 Please call Paula at 4688 SMC ATLANTA' ATLANTA! ATLANTA' l"ve finally got a desk )obi MoooolllSENIOR FELLOW CHAIRMAN appltca­
Bru WANTED 3-5 MICH. ST TIX (GA OR Help!! Desperately need t1x. 1 student or llons are now avatlable for all Interested 
semors Ptck up applicatons tn the Stu­ATTENTION ND/SMC VIETNAMESE 
STUDENT) PLEASE CALL LUKE 3489 GA for MSU. 3 student or GAs tor FSU. 4
dent Acttvtttes offtce tn LaFortune STUDENTS Tutors needed for Vtel­DEADLINE OCT t 5 namese youths wtlh complicated
GAs and 2 students for Navy Call 1596 In the mtdst of darknass. gloom and ram. I NEED MSU TIX!! Up to 7 needed. prefer there are some who nevertheless plod
Amer culture adjustments. also tn G A s but wtll lake stud s CALL ED Need two Student or GAs tor MSU CASH relentlessly toward completion ol thelf ap­
Need nders to Cleveland (leavtng Fn Oct Chemtstry and English Contact Volun­
1686 RENUMERATIONI Call Bnan 288-3108 potnted task. though thelf eHorts gang oft 
2) -G01ng to John Carroll Call John teer Servtces. 7308 
aglee And there are some who would tell 3527 Need 2 GA or Student Ttcs tor NAVY I NEED TWO G A T-ICKETS TO M S U. you that such ts the stuN of whtch poems
INTERESTED IN BABYSITTING? Volun­Need a nde to TN for break Call Mtke. teers needed to make up list of avatlable
Steve 1034 GAME CALL ROB AT 277-6065 are made But as Shakespeare would 
on have 11. a rose by any other name still Need 2 GA s for Flonda State Call Stan I M GOING INSANE! NEED 3 MSU TIX costs a the boulevard.
6657 PLEASE' babysttters for small chtldren 
lues eventngs at Bulla Shed.6-8.whtle bundle on and 3006 AND 2 FSU TIX ASK FOR CARL AT shes probably not worth 11. anyway ­
NEED RIDE TO VERMONT FOR OC­parents attend counseling sesstons Con­TOBER BREAK W/SHARE COSTS tact Volunteer Servtces. 7308
6827! though It'S hard for me to say because I NEED 8 NAVY GA TIX. PLEASE CALL tend lo stutter They call thaltmpedtment. 
CALL SUE 7526 ' MICHAEL AT 1615 WILL TRADE any home stud ttcket tor a but '' has nothtng to do wtlh whattmeant.
ATTENTION SWIMMERS. Volunteers USC stud licket CALL HAMIL 1068 and so we press on the wnnkles even
NEED Lots ol Ttx to all home games asp needed to asstst handtcapped youths Fla St & Navy Call Ph1l t 150 wtlh 6 wk Red Cross Aquattc prog. al
Qua Pasa'l need oneGA or studenlttx lor though the sutl wtll never be worn agatn. 
FSU Call Steve 6645 I NEED 2 OR 4 MSU GAS CALL because there ts no t1e to match Neal­
Logan pool Abtltty destrable but NOT 
JASPER AT 1744 ness IS an obsesston w11h some. but tor I DESPERATELY NEED ONE STUDENT others 11 IS loneliness. But lor others, 11 IS 
RIDE TO BOSTON FOR OCTOBER mandatory Contact Volunteer Servtces. 
7308 TIX FOR MSU CALL 234-8518 at ntght Desperately need FSU ttc. student or GA loneliness. Thank God for aliihe others. 
BREAK WILL SHARE USUAL CALL 
BOB AT 3241 Call Joan at 6553 
The Observer-Sports Wednesday, September 30, 1981 -page 8 
• • .Answ-ers 
eventually," Faust continues, "but you have to get the basics down before you can start to get tricky. It takes a while to learn this system, and the kids just aren't quite ready yet. They are getting there, and one ofthese days we are just going to ex­plode. But it's going to take some time to co-ordinate everything, and in the meantime you hope you can win during the transition." 
But•the players, apparently, didn't care enough about the outcome of the game Saturday to take their train­ing seriously. Is there another ex­planation as to why so many starters were drinking at Corby's as late as Thursday night? To be fair, the coaches couldn't have known that their players were out drinking, though the scene is all-too familiar to others who visit area bars, but the lack ofdiscipline has begun to carry over to practices, and from the looks 

ANYTHING GROWS 
FLORIST -campusdelivery 
N. IRONWOOu

House Plants Gifts, Corsages 
at 
TOLL ROAD 

HOUSE PLANTS 
DIRECTLY EAST of CAMPUS

GIFTS, TELEFLORIST 1I 4mi. N. of Douglas WIRE FLOWERS 
272-8820 

PRESENT THIS COUPON 
ND-SMC 
ex. 10/81 

practically had Faust canonized before he had ever won a game. 
"I have a big responsibility," Faust says. "I feel I owe the people a better shake, and that bothers me more than anything. The people have been great, and I don't want to let them down. 
"No one has put that pressure on 
me directly, I just feel it. I don't 
mind, to be honest with you. I just 
want to see some happy faces." 
Faust is kind when he says that no 
one has put pressure on him, for the 
fact is we all have. We "assumed" 
that he would come in here with a 
formula for an instant dynasty. We 
let it get out of hand when we heard 
about his recruiting success, and 
began to draw parallels with the un­
defeated years at Moeller. Those 
kinds of things build pressure, 
whether Faust will admit it or not. 
"I came in here having been 26-3 
games at Fordham the year before," 
says Digger Phelps, who knows what 
the pressure to produce a winner is 
like, "but my first year at Notre 
Dame the team went 6-20. It just 
takes time to make a transition, and 
for players to learn your system. We 
came back the very next year and 
were in the finals of the NIT. You 
have to give it time. 
"Before he's done, Gerry Faust 
will be in a place right next to 
Rockne. Say what you will about the 
outside world, and what they think 
of Notre Dame, but mark my words, 
Faust is going to be one of the all­
time greats. If you don't think so, 
give me your name and address, I'll 

want to call you in about five years." =============================== 
After the last several seasons un­servative play-calling against Michi­"But we will use it, we're working on 
der Dan Devine, in which the gan, and the defensive alignment it. Right now we are just a step away 
tailback-up-the-middle became forced a certain style at Purdue, fans from where we want to be." 
practically the only weapon in the began wondering aloud what hap­Once again, we come back to our 
Notre Dame arsenal, we rejoiced at pened to the excitement. Was original question, "What's the mat· 
Faust's announcement that the team Devine secretly calling plays, they ter with Notre Dame1" 
would employ a "Dallas Cowboy­asked. I'd offer you this answer. It may 
type" system, with motion, and "We haven't used most of the take the . whole season, but the 
shifts, and excitement. When the muliple formations," Faust replied problem with the Notre Dame foot· 
tone of the game dictated con-to the grossly unfair implication. ball team is nothing time won't heal. 
continuedfrom page 12 
they didn't really comprehend the situation until Steve Bryant made the catch that gave the Boilers the lead. "We thought we could come out and do it in the second half," co­captain Bob Crable said in the lock­errom after the team's second loss, "but we came up short." 
That brings us back to the ques­tion at hand. "What's the matter with Notre Dame?" 
The answer, to misquote Shakespeare, is not only in our stars, but in ourselves. 
Our stars obviously believed themselves to be unbeatable, even after being embarassed at Michigan. They wok Purdue lightly, and paid for it. That can be the only explana~ tion for the conversation that took place on the bus on the way to West 
Lafayette. According to one of the bus riders, players were openly saying that Purdue was a team with no class, no talent, and no right to even be on the same field with as awesome a team as themselves. 
"We just don't have a fear of our 
opponents," one player said after 
returning home Saturday night. "No 
one thinks we can be beaten." 
The players,for all the rhetoric about their being superior student­athletes, can't seem to comprehend an offense that Faust's high school students were able w master. In fact, Tony Hunter, who played under Faust and that offensive system for four years, was so confused near game's end last week that he had to call time-out. After the time out call he still didn't seem to know what was going on. 
"Tony is having trouble 
comprehending the whole change," 
says Faust. "He made some critical 
mistakes that hurt us last week. He 
just gets confused having made the 
switch from split end, and that's part 
ofwhy he called the time-outs." 
Hunter is not the only player 
having problems with the offense. 
"We are going to open things up 
ofthings, to games. "I guess I have to get tougher on these guys," Faust said in a press con­

ference after the Michigan game. "It's hard to be tough on them, be­cause I like them so much. But we can't continue to let the little things slip by. I'm not going to brow-beat them, though, they don't need that." 
Perhaps the time for brow-beating 

has finally come. The team obvious­. ly showed no signs ofhaving learned 
anything, or having turned over a 
new leaf in time for the Purdue 


Tony Hunter 
game, even after the coach's an­nouncement that he would "get tough" during the week. Perhaps Faust's greatest fault is that he is too good a friend, and not enough of a disciplinarian. 
But the fault lies also with our­selves. 
We, and I mean all Notre Dame fans, were so anxious for a change, so hungry for breath offresh air, that we gobbled up the media hype, and 
• • .Faust 

Purdue," Faust recalled. "We can be exploding. We just have to hang in lost three straight. But he says the that way all the time, believe me. It tight and do our best, and hope that extra pressure on him now isn't was just a question of getting our things work out for the best. bothering him. running game established. Phil Car-"Sometimes I think God is testing "I'm getting there," he said, "but ter's hamstring pull was more me to see how I react. But we've all I'm not used to this. I feel I owe serious than we let anyone know, been through crises before, and people a better shake. There is and it looks like he's finally back to we'll get through this one too." pressure every Saturday, though, for 
100 percent. He had been favoring This week the Irish take on Michi-both teams. The great teams thrive that leg until late in the game, but if gan State, who squeaked out a win on pressure, and overcome it. Our yesterday's practice is any indica-over Bowling Green, 17-14 last kids and coaches take pressure well, tion, he's back in form." weekend. But Faust warns about and we are just going to have to 
Tim Koegel will once again start taking the Spartans too lightly. overcome the adversity. for the Irish. His 10-14 performance "I watched their game film from "I get about I30 letters a day, and against the Boilers guaranteed that. the Ohio State game, and I was Very about 126 are positive. That sure Faust insists, however, that Blair Kid impressed," he told the reporters. helps a lot. The people have been will see action ifKoegel fails to move "They were in that game more than just great. I can't thank them the team. the score indicated. They are very enough. But I sure would like to see 
"The breaks just haven't gone our physical and extremely quick. That's some smiling faces around Notre way," Faust says. "We have had to a well-coached football team that Dame and South Bend." make our own breaks. But, by the has the potential to explode at any A win this weekend, in front of same token, we haven't made any moment." those hometown fans, could be just breaks for the other team either. The last time Faust lost two games what the doctor ordered. 
"This team is on the verge of in a row was 1968, and he has never =============== 
~~~~~~/,~~~~~~~~
what Oo you plan to Oo 
• • .Itetns 


a{:t€R qnabuatton?!? continuedfrom page 12 Cj€t som€ tb€aS at th€ ants Landon Turner Fund, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana, 46556.
& l€tt€RS Bustn€ss 
The Observer and Landon Turner Soct€ty lnfonmattonal appreciate all your help. ADD END The Big
WoRkshop­
Brothers/Big Sisters of St. Joseph 

W€b. S€pt. 30 -ton]tqht-County still have a few copies of the 45-record entitled, "The Little Blue Nun Replies." The record was
7:30 pm 
produced as an answer to an 

124 hay€s-h€aly. Alabama single called, "The Little Blue Nun," which attributed Notre Dame's national championship choice over Alabama in 1977 to .
StaRt thtnktnq asout ltf€ a{:t€R 
divine (not Devine) intervention. Both singles appear on the record,

qnabuatton tobay! and it is available by mail for S2.50. Send checks to P.O. Box 213, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 
continuedfrom page 12 
and will prove to be a consistent unit by the end of the season. 
"To win, you have to execute, hit and perform better than your op· ponent," he said. "We haven't done 
that yet.  But  we  have done  some  
things very well.  
"Our  quarterback  hasn't  been  

sacked by a defensive lineman yet. It's always been a blitzing linebacker or defensive halfback. On the other hand, our defensive line has about eight sacks. That's pretty good, and I can't expect any more than that." 
Offensively, there are still some kinks to be worked out. "We were devastating the last time we had the ball against 

Wednesday, September 30, 1981 -page 9




Sports Brie s 
~ c===~~======~====================================~
by Tht: Ohstrr·t·r .wJ The A.rrouated Prt If 
Notre Dame's Women'sTrack and Cross Country Club will meet t<>night at 7 p.m. in the basement of Lewis HaiL The coach will be on hand to discuss practices, fund raisers and more. If you wish to attt:nd but are unable to do so, contact Lisa Monti (H091 )or Barbjacobs(2722).-The Observer 
Purdue's Steve Bryant has been named Midwest Playt•r of tht• Week by the Associated Press. Bryant caught two touchdown passes and an extra point attempt as the Boilermakers upset 13th-ranked Notre Dame last Saturday in West lafayette, 15­
14. -The Associated Press 
Former Irishfootball StarSJefl"Weston and Bob Thomas have run into injury problems in the NFL this season. Wes­ton, a 1979 graduate picked in the ninth round by Miami but later cut, has returned to the New York Giants line-up after a knee injury. However, Weston cannot win his job back from Gordon Kelley, a third-year player out of Stanford. Meanwhile, it appears that 1974 graduate Bob Thomas, who was placed on injured reserve by the Chicago Bears, may be out for the season. Thomas pulled a hamstring above.the knee in his kicking leg, and has developed complications. If Thomas is not reactivated by October 1 1 th, he must sit out the· entire season. -The Observer 

AMERICAN LEAGUE  
Eeat  
W  L  Pet.  GB  
Detroit  28  20  583  
Milwaukee  28  21  .571  .5  

27 .563 1

Second Hell Boston 21 
NATIONAL LEAGUE Baltimore 25 22 .532 2.5 Eeat Cleveland 25 24 .510 3.5 w L Pet. GB •-New York 24 24 .500 4 St LOUIS 26 21 553 
y-Toronlo 20 24 .455 6 
WestMontreal 26 22 .542 .5 

x·Ph1ladelph1a 23 24 489 3 Kansas City 27 21 . 563 Chicago 22 25 468 4 •·Oakland 24 21 533 1.5 New York 22 26 .458 4.5 Minnesota 23 26 .469 4.5 
.408 7 y-TeKas 21 25 .457 5 West y-Seattle 21 27 .438 6y·Pittsburgh 20 29 
31 17 .646 y-Calilorn1a 19 27 4t3 7Houston 
1.5 y-Ch1cago 20 29 .408 7.5 San FranCISCO 27 20 574 3.5 x·flrst halt champs y-x-Los Angeles 25 23 
C1nc1nnat1 29 18 .617 
.521 6 y-el1m1nated from playoff contention 
y-Atlanta 22 25 468 85 y-San D1ego 14 35 286 17.5 x·llrst halt champs Tuesday's Resultsy-ellmlnated lrom playoff contention Kansas C1ty 4. Minnesota 2 Oakland 5. Toronto 1 Tuesday's Reaulta Cleveland 3, New York 2 Los Angeles 5. Atlanta 3 
Detroit 14, Ba111more 0
New York 3. Ph1ladelph1a 0 Calilorn1a 5. Ch1cago 1Pittsburgh 10. Ch1cago 6 Boston 7, Milwaukee 2 C1nc~nnat1 4. San Franc1sco 3 Texas 4, Seattle 0 
St LOUIS 8, Montreal 4 San D1ego 2, Houston 0 Wednesday's Gameo St LoUIS (Kaat 6-6) at Ph1ladelph1a (Larson 3·0) n 
Wednesday'a Games Montreal (Gulhr.kson 6-8) at P1nsburgh (Solomon 8·5) 
Kansas City (Gura 1 0-7) at M1nnesota (Arroyo 7-9) 
n Toronto (Leal7-12) at Oakland (Norns 11-9) San Franc1sco (Griffin 8·8) at Atlanta (McWilliams 1­
New York (John 9-7) at Cleveland (Waits 8·9) n 
1) n Boston (Hurst 2·0) at Milwaukee (Caldwell11-9) n Houston (Ruhle 4·5) at Ctnc1nnat1 (Sot 10-9) n Calitorma (Moreno 1-2) at Ch1cago (Dotson 9-7) n Ch1cago (Bird 4-5) at New York (Zachry 7-13) n Ball1more (Flanagan 8-6) at Detro1t (Wilcox 11-9) n San D1ego (F~reovtd 0·1) al Los Angeles (Hooten 11­Texas (Hough 3-1) at Seattle (Bann1ste B-8) 
6) n 
only games scheduled only games scheduled 
Don't Miss 
Ihe='lbseaer_ 
~ 
Irish Extra -Special Football Edition 
Saturday 

Special Guest:SAN'TAN'A Tuesday-December 1, 1981 * 7:30p.m. Pontiac Silverdome * Pontiac, :Michigan 
$1.00 01."1"1 Specjil Chuter l3us Pack~! All Rolling Stones 
111d S&lltllla &lbumsincludes: and tapes now &t both•round trip bus tr111sport.ation from 

River City Rmrds

River City Records to Pontiac Silverdome. Bus dep&rta at l:OOp.m., returns approz. 3:30 &.m. Limited number of pacltage
• 
Refreshmenta on bus tickets now on sale at 

•
Ticket to The Rolllng Stones/S&Iltllla River City Records concert 60970 U.S. 31 )!'orth


• sa!ety/a~nvenience/avoid driving l parking ezpense 111d h&sslel 
For more information call 277-4242 
For rowers 



Early to bed, early to • • • 
"Maybe you can be one ofus." The United States Marine Service does that statement proud with their acclamation oftoughness. 
The Notre Dame crew club could likewise boast of such an attribute. You see, ofall the club sports offered by the Non-Varsity Athletic Department, there is none that demands as intensive training and dedication as that put in by the oarsman. 
"Yeah, there is a lot ofwork involved," says Bob Ben­net, club president, "but you get out of the club what you put in to it. You work hard, but in the end you get your just rewards. The trips we make for meets arc al­ways a lot of fun for all of us, and there are always per­sonal goals here for the individual to achieve. 
"Besides, we have 70 people now, who, ifthey didn't like the club, wouldn't be sticking it out." 
The "sticking out" business stems from the year­round training program. The first phase begins in the first week of September, and lasts until the fall break when the club takes its act to Boston for the annual "Head of Charles" regatta which attracts anywhere be­tween 3000 to 4000 competitors from all over the world. 
In the fall phase, the members are obligated to run over 100 miles in the six-week span before the regatta, while afso putting in some weight-training. But that's a holiday compared to getting up at 5:00 a.m. six days-a­week (only three days-a-week for novices), heading out on a 45-minute drive to the boathouse in Mishawaka, stroking about six-miles a day, and coming back by 8:00 
a.m. for the start ofclasses. 
Says senior crew captain Ed Dailey, "Ideally, the train­ing should be very hard, because you have to be in ex­cellent shape t before you actually evergo rowing in the water. It will take one really good year of training for someone to develop into a fine oarsman. 
"The great thing about the cluh, though, is that no experience is required," he continues.-"! myself never played in any sports in high school, so I wanted to see if there was something different that I could excel at. That's exactly what rowing ha~ been. 
"More or less, it is the curiosity that brings people out," explains Bennet. "And there is an initial type of thinking about the sport that on the first day ofpractice one can easily say 'Hey, this is for me.' 
"It is the best combination of mind and body in a sport that I've seen." says Dailey. There's the power of rowing, o.f course, but there is also the poise factor where you have to be well synchronized as a unit while you're rowing (the club rows almost always in eights­-lightweight and varsity level). It's not just a matter of putting all muscle into it." 


The second phase of trammg IS m tne wmter, where workouts are usually held by the team and the ded­icated individual himself so that excess weight is not taken on to the boats for the third and most exciting phase, the spring. 
Six regattas are usually held with the spring break meet at Florida being the highlight. The club most often has managed to come up with impressive perfor­mances, especially in the Midwest, where Wisconsin and Purdue clubs are the only ones considered vastly superior to the Notre Dame rowers. 
Among the outstanding oarsman on the squad, besides Bennet and Dailey, are junior James Feider, vice-president ofthe club, and seniorjane Wagner, who is also in charge of fund-raising. The women are ~· coached by former Notre Dame grad Jill l)elucia, and ' compete seperatcly in women's division races, but take the same trips as the men. 
There are also some sophomores (led by Dana Drury) that can become really outstanding performers in the years to come" says Bennet. 
All are examples, he says, ofthe "getting out what you 
put in" theory. 
"The organization and the people you meet here in 
this club -and from any other crew clubs in the 
country -arc just super. That in itself makes the dub 
such a worthwhile activity. 
"I can honestly say that I've never met an oarsman 
that I didn't like." 
Has someone said that already? 
SAILERS TAKE FIRST: The Notre Dame sailing club took first place at an eight team regatta at Marquette University in Wisconsin. Leading the Irish to the im­pressive performance was the first place A-division "' sailing duo consisting ofTom Fink as skipper with jerry Daus as crew. A fine performance was also turned in by the B-division as skipper Brian Rieck and crew Hddi Skupien took third place. In a scpcratc meet at Detroit, the Irish took fifth place in a nine team meet with Phil 
Reynolds as skipper and Carol Silva and Chris Hussey 
alternating as the crew. The club travels this weekend 
to Ann Arbor, Michigan. 

CAREER OPPORTUNITIES with Inland 
Our dynamic growth has created excellent oppor­tunities at our Indiana Harbor Works, East Chicago, Indiana facility for degreed individuals. You owe it to yourself to investigate these positions. Our cur­rent needs include: 
•ENGINEERS 
•METALLURGY 

•CHEMISTRY 
•ACCOUNTING 


•COMPUTER SCIENCE •MATH 
Consult the specific job description in the pocket of our brochure. 
Our Representatives will be on your campus to pro­vide you with more information on 
October 14th 

Inland Steel 
3210 Watling Street, East Chicago, Indiana 46312 
We are an equal opportunity erf1lloyer mf 

-~-------------­
The Observer Wednesday, September 30, 1981 -page 10 

WHY PAY THE KING'S RANSOM? 
::::===3~~ 

BLUE RIBBON 
24/12 OZ. CANS 
ONLY 


BEAM BLEND 
1.75 LITER ONLY 
WHITE OR GOLD 
CASTILLO RUM 


~~-499 
Savings, Service, Selection ... 
THAT'S WHY! 
Generic 
BEER 
Regular or Light 24/ 12 OZ. CANS 
499 

ZONIN ASTI SPUMANTE 
750
ML. 499 
ZONIN LAMBRUSCO 
750 
249
ML. 
KRONENWEIN LIEBFRAUMILCH 
750 
249
ML. 


MILLER LITE 
24112 OZ. CANS 
. 
ONLY 

Kosher Wines for the High 'Holidays 
MacKINTOSH 
·.ll . 4 



SCOTCH 
MOGEN DAVID 




CARMEL WINES ~~=~~ 
... 
NIKOFF DIMITRI 
CONCORD OR GOLDEN CONCORD 750 ML.


~~499 
Ihe~Observer-~,~:~o----c~-. 





T0 da~=============W=e=d=n=e::;:sd=a=y='=S=e=p=te=m=b=e=r=30=,=1=9=8=l==p=a=ge=l:;l 

Doonesbury 
SfNI(l{)R, tUMTtil£'?& 5££t!V6 !ltW IS IWffAI{T OPPOI<ll/N­
ISM.II~AI?/;TAKING 
APVANTAGt. OF HI6H INTtPC5T f?ATf;S 7lJ SCIF& 816/N THe / tf1()Vfl RJN()S I 


Simon 


The Daily Crossword 
Molarity 
60H£7HIN&, HU51 B~ :PO!Je 7b CDHBAT POPCoRN ABuSE"", hi£ AI 6£CURITY BELI£V£ THE Flf15T 5T&f' 
15 IO f'JE6T~ICT POPCOP,N 

':'::-"-t--tr--1 29 Ranger 

(£)1981 by Chicago Tribune-N.'t'. N~ws Synd. Inc. All Rights Reserved · 
BUT WHAT DOES THE STUDENT UNION RECORD STORE HAVE FOR ME? 
CHEAPER PRICES PRICES ... Save 24-32% off list prices! MOST CURRENT SINGLES-S6.50 (compare at S8.99 list). Cut-outs...$2.98 to SS.98 
CONVENIENCE...The NDSU Record Store is located on the Main floor of LaFortune and is open 9-S. PLUS-ordered albums take I week only! 
GREAT SELECTION ...Springsteen, Fogelberg, Moody Blues, Stevie Nicks, Cristopher Cross, Pat Benatar, Journey, and many more. 
.Al.SO...recordcd and blank tapes available. 
SO...tor CHEAPER PRICES, MORE CONVENIENCE, and a GREAT SELECTION stop by the S.U. Record Store today'!! 
Michael Molinelli 
eu-r L.Jcu~DN'r 11/t: Rt=5Tl>.,cnorJS 

Garry Trudeau 



]eb Cashin 

Cc!VE. M£, 5itf ? 
" 


Campus 
•I.?.: IS p.m. -lecture, "the role of memhrant.• lipids in the immunologically-mediated killing of tumor cells," dr. seymour i. schlagt.-r, nd, 278 gal­vin. microbioiOb'Y dept. 
• 
.?.:.?.0 p.m. -smc career day speaker kathy Iaverty. projects manager/customs relations, stapleton lounge, sn1C. 

• 
3:30p.m. -IcclUre. "dynamics of nonlint·ar and nonconsnvative systems," prof. earl dowell. prin­ceton univ., 3S6 t1tzpatrick, areo. & mech. engineering dt.·pt. •-t p.m. -lecture, john burgee, johnson and bur· gee architects, n.y.. architel'!Url' aud., arch. dept. 

•·t:20 
p.m. lecture. "high resolution spectrometer for e e-," dr. malcolm derrick, ar­gonne nationaiiabs, I I H nkuwland. physics dept. 

•6 
p.m. smc career spcakn kathy sdmcidcr, holy cross assoc., stapleton loungl·, smc. 

• 
~ p.m. -smc career speaker barbara o'toole, at· torney, stapleton lounge, snJC. 

• 
..., p.m. -game, women's volleyball, nd vs st. joseph's, aux. gym. ace. 

•"":00 
p.m. -meeting. pep rally committel' meeting, room 2d Iafortune ( 2nd tloor ) . 

• 
~ & 10 p.m. -t11m, "a midsumml'r night's drl'am." annl'nbl'rg aud., snite. 

•7, 
9 & I I p.m. -t11m, "singing in the rain," spon­sor, council for the retarded. 

•7:30 
-t11m. "doubll' day," o'shag hall satellite, latin american area studks. 



Television 
7:00p.m. 
7:30p.m. 8:00p.m. 
8:30p.m. 9:00p.m. 9:30p.m. 
10:00p.m. 
10:30 p.m. 
li:OOp.m. 11:30p.m. 


Tonight 
16 Real People 22 A Boy Namt·d Charlil' Brown 28 Greatest Amerkan llero 34 l.ivt· from the Met. "La Traviata" 
46  Messagt· for tht· flour  
46  Oral Roherb  
16  Diffrent Strokes  
22  CBS  Wedne~day  Night  Movil'.  

"Young Love, First Love" 28 The Manions of America, Part I 
46 Lester Sumrall Teaching 
Cope· with lkpression" 16 Facts of Life 46 The Renewed Mind 16 Sophisticated (il·nts. Part l 46 Today with Lt·stl'r Sumrall 34 Daughters ofTillll' 16 News Centn 16 22 22 Eyewitnt'ss Nt·w~ 28 Nt'wswatch lH 34 The Dick Cavt·u Show 46 Christ is tht· An~wer 16 Tonight Show 22 WKRI' & Ft'aturt' .\1ovil' 28 ABC Nt·ws Night line 34 Captionl'll ABC Nt'ws 46 ~tichiana Today 28 LoVl' Boat 46 Prai~l' the Lord 16 Tomorrow Coast to Coast 
"llow to 
' 

HEH£ AFft:: I:V51 ~CH£ OF Tllr= Ho~r C.ONHDN JrtH~ ..,71-11£ fJ..UTR/C f>oPPER ,IHc OIL 1T1/S &lWL VJH/111 7Hn' CALL 117r/e BowL.'' THE 5AL.T AN.P 711E 

H£AA/ YOU IMVt 

NOT REA() "f)U LfiC II! 
I IX!.JI'r TIII#K 

ACROSS 1 Side dish 5 Change 
gears 10 Own 14 Robust 15 Platforms 16 River into 
the North 
Sea 17 Region 18 Kind of 
tower 19 Noted 
Quaker 20 Food fish 22 Woolly 24 Heinous 25 Perry of 
song 26 Lodestone 33 Roman 

greeting 34 Calyx leaf 36 Strainer 37 "Portnoy's 
Complaint" 
author 39 Antics 41 Cookie 42 Sups 44 Billsof 
fare 46 Pindaric 
verse 47 Rigorous 49 Gun part 51 Talks 
amorously 52 Prefix for sphere 53 Boxing bouts 
56 English novelist George 
60 Weaver's device 61 Jeweled 
headwear 63 Pa. port 64 As to 65 Type of 
architec· 
tkure 66 Zola title 67 Hammer part 68 Music for 
nine 69 -off (angry) 
DOWN 1 Hoax 2 Zhivago's 
love 3 Guinness 
or Waugh 4 Sap 5 Energetic 6 Seedy abode 7 Object of 
worship 8 Evergreen 9 Elizabeth 
or Robert 10 Trancelike 
state 11 Confused 12 Outlet 13 Sea bird 21 Poetic 
times 23 Iowa city 25 Punctuation 
mark 26-Gras 27 To have, in 
Le Havre 
28 "1-kick from cham· pagne" 
29 Colorless 30 Pavarotti, 
for one 31 Skirt 32 Fend off 35 Fine cotton 
fabrics 38 Gang members 40 Do a math 
problem 43 Highlander 45 Ditto 48 Weill's"­
the Stars'~ 50 Paca 52 High nest 53 A Wilson 54 Bulwer· 
Lytton heroine 55 Skirt feature 
56 "Death in Venice" author 
57 Dies­58 Fork 
feature 59 Chief 62 c 

Today in History 
Today's highligiH in history: 
In I'>·•6. an international military tribunal in Nuremberg. (;crmany, timnd 2.2 top Nazi leaders guilty of war crimes and sentt.·nced I I of tht·m to death. 
On this date: 
in I ~H~. the sailing ship< :olumhia kft BoMon on the first voyagt.· around world by an American n·s· sci. 
In I H6H. Spain's l,htel·n lsabdla !led to ·France and was declared deposl'll. In I 9·11), Pakistan and Yemen were admitted to the l'nited Nations. 
Five years ago: Congrt.·ss overrode President Ford\ veto of a SS6 billion-dollar appropriations bill for social snvices.' 

CIDil!~CIDillLmillLFl:m~~ &Yrrcern~ ~~ ~Im&YilCIDrn WaNE TONIGHT WED· SEPT 30 We '11 fill your mug at a special price ! !! Both imports and domestic beers! ! ! 9:30-2:00 
Thursday 's special: Schnapps I 


----~ ---------~---------------------------­

Wednesday, September 30, 1981 -page 12 
,______. ~--------------------------------------------------------------===========--===-----------------­

Give credit where it's due 
Across the country, sports writers and fans are asking the same question. "What's the matter with Notre Dame'" 
Normally, the question wouldn't arise. Nebraska, af­ter all, is 1-2 and no ont~ is calling for Tom Osborne's head on a platter. Stanford is 0-3, and no one is suggest­ing that the school is in for an era of mediocrity. Why, then. is Notre Dame in the spotlight again' 
The Irish were supposed LO go 12-0 and win the na­lost a game as well. We w~::re surprised once, they tional championship. Gerry Faust felt it in his heart, and 
seemed to say to themselves. hut it couldn't happen began to instill that dream in the minds of his players. 
again. Michigan had obviously been working toward Writers came from all over the countrv to talk to the 
th<: game since spring practice, and th<:y surprised man who would pull off the biggest mlracle since the Notre Dame. Th<:re would be surprises against
no '69 Mets. :VIichigan, Oklahoma, Southern Cal and Penn 
Purdue. State thought they had a shot at it as well, hut the 
Ir didn't happen that "·ay. either "smart" money was on Notre Dame. In an emotional debut in front of a packed house. 
The team made the same mistake last Saturday it Faust and his players dismantled a mediocre L'iU team. 
made the week before. The players got cockv. Thev On the same day, Michigan lost to Wisconsin, and the thought all they had to do was show up at R~ss-Ad~ Irish were suddenly touted as the best team in the 
Stadium, and the Boilermakers would roll over and die. country. It was as if Faust had found a magic lamp some­
In Ann Arbor, the Irish woke up to find they werewhere on the road between Cincinnati and South Bend. 

trailing 2S-O. "I thought we w<:rt· ready," said quarter­So the team rolled into Ann Arbor on an incredible back Tim Koegel later, "but we just weren't playing ashigh. They were he best team in the country -or so the intensely as Michigan. We couldn't get rolling."

wire service polls said -and they were playing a team that had been humiliated by Wisconsin. Irish players At Purdue, the team finally got going when it realized figured they had the game in the bag. that the game was tied ami time was running out. But 
It didn't happen that way. 
But. not to worry. Most of the other contenders had See ANSWERS, page 8 
ND, Michigan State 
Football facts and figures 
SPARTAN SPECTACLE -Notre Dame faces Michi­gan State on Saturday for the 47th time in the history of the interstate rivalry which dates back to 1897. The Irish hold a 29-16-1 edge, 13-8-1 since the teams started meeting annually in 19S9. Wi'th the exception of the 
.Spartans' 10-3 decision over the Irish in 1974, Notre Dame has won l I of the last I 2 meetings between the two schools. 

ON THE LIGHTER SIDE -lri~-h mentor Gerry Faust 
Last year's matchup between the Irish and Spartans has never lost three straight games during his coaching was a record setter for two Irishmen. Tailback Phil Car­career, and the last time Notre Dame lost three straightter rushed a school-record 40 times and gained 2S4 grid bouts was way back in 1963. 
yards, one yard short of Vagas Ferguson's single-game 
RUNNING ON EMPTY -Michigan State has relied
school record set against Georgia Tech in 1978. Carter much more heavily on its air attack than on its infantry actually broke the school standard on his 39th carry, this season. Spartan quarterback John Leister hasbut was pushed back into the Irish mileage annals with a thrown for S53 yards this season, more than double thetwo-yard loss on his final tote of the day. 
243 yards MSU's rushing attack has gained through theirIrish placekicker Harry Oliver tied the school mark first three games. In fact, Phil Carter gained I I morefor most field goals in a game, hitting four in as many yards against the Spartans in last year's game than Michi­attempts in Spartan Stadium. 
gan State has amassed on the ground so far this season.
HOME, SWEET HOME -Notre Dame enjoys a I 79­
THESE BOOTS ARE MADE FOR SCORING -IfMich­
50-3 (.778) record in the friendly cont1nes of Notre igan State drives to within 40 yards ofthe Irish goal lineDame Stadium. They also sport a 323-60-I2 (.883) 
on Saturday, they do have a legitimate chance of
ledger on the Notre Dame campus as they head into the scoring. Senior placekicker Morten Andersen. who has
first offive straight home games this weekend. 
connected on all four ofhis field goal attempts this yearThe Irish have fashioned I 9 undefeated, untied and booted a league-record 63-yarder aga t inst Ohio'seasons at home, including last year's perfect 5-0 slate. 
State, has been successful in 16 ofhis last 20 three-pointThanks to the LSU victory at the start of this campaign, attempts. Seven of those scores have been from SONotre Dame now boasts a six-game home winning yards or more.
streak. 
BORN TO RUN -Although he was used sparingly
The Irish also enjoy remarkable sucess at the gate, as against Purdue, Irish junior Phil Carter seems to have any of you who have tried to find tickets for friends or healed from the hamstring pull he suffered the first dayrelatives can certainly attest to. Saturday's crowd will of fall practice. The 200-pound co-captain gained 113
be the 40th consecutive sellout in Notre Dame Stadium beaten, but if we're lucky, there's an
yards on 21 carries against the Boilermakers, the sixth By SKIP DESJARDIN 
the last crowd less than the facility's S9,07S capacit; outside chance we could be in the
100-yard game of his Irish career. Carter, who topped Asistant Sports Editor
being the S7,236 who attended the 1973 Air Force picture by the end of the season. We
the 1,000-career-yard plateau vs. L.,U, is only one game
game on November 22nd. rolling
shy of Vagas Ferguson's school-record seven career When Gerry Faust began his have to get things now, 
OUT OF THE BLOCKS -This season's football though."
I00-yard days. weekly telephone press con­
record marks only the sixth time this century (all since to
DEAD IN THEIR TRACKS -Irish co-captain Bob ferences, the room in the ACC was The team has been unable 
19S6) and eighth time in the history of Notre Dame move tha ball at times in their last
Crable, who has notched 43 tackles so far this season, jammed with people. The list ofpar­
football that the Irish have started a season at 1-2. The two games, and generally unable to
now boasts 403 career stops. That ranks second on the ticipants was long, and one Los An­
l 
last time the Irish got offto this slow a start was in I978, put many points on the board whenIrish career charts behind Bob Golic's 479 tackles t be­geles station even broadcast the
when the Irish countered opening losses to Mis sissippi they did move, but Faust sees
tween I975 and 1978. proceedings live.
and Purdue with an 8-1 performance for the balance of changes on the horizon.
SECOND GUESSING? -After Notr~ Dame's loss to After losing two consecutive
I 
the year. "We are just a step away from
Michigan, the Observer received a handwritten un­games, however, the crowds have
I .,_ DON'T LOOK BACK -The Notre Dame football wher<: we want to be," he said.
signed note from a concerned, but illogical irish fa~. dwindled. It's easier to find a seat in
I· 
team has now lost four of it s last five games, including "Monday's practice was probably
The note hypothesied that Michigan coach Bo the conference room, and tewer
last year's season-ending setbacks to Southern Cal ( 20-the best of the fall. The guys have a
Schembechler purposely threw the Wisconsin game in reporters ar<: on the other end ofthe
3) and Georgia ( I 7-I 0 in the Sugar Bowl). When one good attitude and lots ofenthusiasm.
the Badgers' favor so that Notre Dame would be too lin<:. 
counts the 1980 tie at Georgia Tech, the Irish football The transition to a new style of play
I cocky coming into their battle with the Wolverines the "The press has been great to me,"
squad has only won three ofits last eight games, namely takes time, especially when you ' following weekend. Faust said in answer to a question at
Alabama (7-0), Air Force ( 24-10) and L'iU ( 27-9). have a
f Come on, now. yesterday's morning session. "Keep number of players in new
I The last time the Irish dropped four offive games was positions. The guys are starting to
TURNER TURNOUT -Along with the S120 dollars it up, though, I can use all the help I
back in 1963, when the Irish dropped their last five catch on.
donated by fans at the Stars against the Players can get. I just hope w<: can prove 
games en route to a 2-7 season. That was the last season "But that's no excuse for Saturday. 
I 
(translated a~ media vs. b.1sketball team) softball game everything you have said by the end 
I 
under coach Hugh Devore, who was replaced by Ara You have to give Jim Young and
on Sunday, the Observer-Landon Turner Fund has ofth<: season." 
Parseghian. Parseghian led the 1964 Irish to a 9-1 Purdue all the credit in the world.
been receiving checks from students and local resi­Faust will have trouble hdping
record in his first year. Things just didn't go our way."
I dents this week. If you are interested in contributing to those who predicted a I 2-0 season 
In the event that Notre Dame does not win a national The coach said that th<: defense's
l 
the Fund. the proceeds of which will be donated to In­for the Irish, but he was free with hisfootball championship this season, this senior class will inability to stop the big play has
diana University basketball star Landon Turner to offset thoughts on this week's contest with
be the first one since the 1973 graduates to go through been the major weakness thus far.
medical costs incurred after his paralyzing automobile Michigan State. 
I Notre Dame without experiencing a national football Without those few major mistakes,
accident this summer, send a check to Observer-"Our goal was to go 12-0 and win
! championship. Further, they will only be the fourth he says, the dctense has played well,
the national championship," he ad­~class in the last 16 years to miss such an event. See ITEMS, page 8 mitted. "Obviously we can't go un-See FAUST, page 8 









