

The Irish Extra -page 7
' ' ' 


VOL XVI, NO. 45 an independent srudent newspaper serving notre dame and saint mary's THURSDAY, OCTOBER 29, 1981 
'Photo finish' 

Senate approves AWACS sales 

W ASIIINGTON (AP) Th~ S~nate:-approvnJ Prc:sidc:nt Reagan's r~cord SH.S.billion AWACS sale to Saudi Arabia yesterday, crowning an int~nsivt• lobbying effort that reversed long odds and dcliv~r~d a stunning victory in his tlrst major fordgn policy test. 
The s~nat~ r~j~ct~d 52 to 48 a vt·to r~solution that would have scrapp~d the sale of the sophistica­ted radar planes and F-1 5 jet fighter weaponry to the Arab kingdom. The president needed 'iO votes, since a tic would have gone to him. 
The House had voted 301-I I I against the package two weeks ago, and, as lat~ as Tuesday, Senate op­ponents remained contldent they had more than enough support to do 
tht· same. 

But R~agan'S pc:rsonal pow<:rs of persuasion ('roduced a nail-bit<:r than turned his way at the 'i p.m. EST showdown. 
Earli~r. the president told the Senatt· in a letter that the sale is in­valuable to U.S. security int<:rests "improving both our strategic posture and the prospects for peace in the Middle East." 
But opponents o.lled it a thr<:at to Israel, fuel for a Middle East arms rae~ and a risk of losing s~cret AWACS and missile tn·hnology to the: Sovit.-ts or radical Arab nations if tht· Saudi government is over­thrown. 
"It's just about a perfect photo 11nish," said Sen. Charles II. Percy, R­
Ill.,  Reagan's  floor  kader  on  the  
issue,  as  the  climactic  vote  ap­ 
proached.  

Reagan called it a test of his com­mand of American foreign policy. Opponents saw it as a threat to the security of Israel and to the: sanctity of America's most advanced military 
tet·hnolo~,ry. 

The package involved not only sale of tlvc: Airborne Warning and Control Systems radar planes to Saudi Arabia, but also I, I 77 Sidewin­der missiles, I 01 fuel pods and six flying tankers to stretch the range and firepower of F-1 5 jets already in possession ofthe Arab kingdom. 
The president devoted the day to buttonholing senators, two summoned for private persuasion in th~ intimacy ofthe small study in the White House residence. His lobby­ing campaign on the first major foreign policy debate of his presidency rivaled the intensity of his successful effort to cut govern­ment spending and taxes. 
"He makes persuasive arguments based on the· fact that we only have one president of the United States at a time," said Sen. Edward Zorinsky, a conservativ~ Democrat from Nebraska after 40 minutes with R~agan. "He indicated that it is dif­fi(;ult for him to conduct foreign policy with a defeat of this nature." 
And so, after nearly a month of dc:bate, two opponents switched to Reagan and two others said they w.-rt· reconsidering their opposi­tion. All three are Republicans. 
Slade Gorton of Washington and William Cohen of Maine switched in favor of the sale. Aides said Mark 
See A WACS, page 3 


CLC recommends new 0-C housing director 
By SHEILA SHUNICK 
News Staff 

The Campus Life Council voted yesterday to recommend that Fr. Van Wolvlear, Vice-President ofStu­
dent Affairs,  approve  the appoint­ 
ment  of  a  full-time  Director  of  
Off-Campus Housing.  

Kathy Jurado, Off-Campus Com­missioner and representative of the CLC Off-Campus Task Force, strong­ly stressed the need for a commiaed 
director ot off-campus housing. 

If approved by Fr. Van Wolvlear, th~ director would be responsible for such duties as organizing a com­posite Jist ofotl'-campus housing and acting as a liaison to improve rela­tions between the students of Notre Dame and the Northeast Neighbor­hood. 
The former would include compiling· a list of possible off­campus housing which would list specific living conditions of neigh­borhoods as well as working with realtors and developers in an effort to provide new and remodeled housing for off-campus students. 
The latter would include being a member of the Northeast Neighbor­hood Council, working with the Off­Campus Commissioner, bdng in contact with South Bend police and 
N.D. security, and improving rela­tions with the landlords, as well as being more available to students Jiving off-campus. 
The director would also en· courage students to Jive in neighbor­hoods not already overburdened with a dense student population, ;111d would maintain and improve current off-campus to campus transportation facities. 
The CLC maintains that a full time director, fulfilling all of the above responsibilities, would be a major step toward making off-campus living a more fulfilling and worthwhile experience. Within seven days Fr. Van Wolvlear will decide the fate ofthis resolution. 
'Threat-perceptions ' 


Schweitzer discusses U.S., F.R.G. 
Schweitzer observed that the By MOLLY RYAN overall East-West relations have News Staff deteriorated since the mid-1970's, noting that the Soviet Union's politi­Relations between the Federal cal, military and ideological progres­Republic ofGermany and the United sion is largely responsible for this 
States were discussed yesterday af. occurence. The underlying ternoon in a lecture presented by problem in international relations, Professor Carl-Christoph Schweit­Schweitzer statt•d is the concept of 
zer in the Memorial library faculty "threat-perceptions". Schweitzer lounge. maintained "Threat-perceptions can 
Guinness declares 'eternal 'winners 
By SCOIT KRAFT 
Associated Press Writer 

NEW YORK -For a quarter century, people hav~ eat<:n fire, swallowed swords, slept between beds of nails, even devourc:d a bicycle and a tree, just to get into the world's most famous record book. 
Now the Guinness Book of World Records is "dosing the book" on som~ of it~ records, declaring some winners for eternity in categories th~ ~ditors consider life-threatening or particularly dan­gnous. 
No mon: sword-swallowing. No more bike-eating. No more bodies sandwiched hetwe~n beds of nails. 
"There is suftkient planned lunacy on tekvision without our having to add to it," said Norris McW'hirter, the book's co-founder and t•ditor in London. ·1 
"Something eventually r~acht·s a point that we don't want to include it," McWhir­tt·r added in a telephone int~r­view. "People can do what 


they like, hut we're not going to chronicle it. Maybe th~ obituary columns will, hut we won't." 
The 1~H2 American edition of the book is being released tomor­row. Since it wa.' 11rst published in 19'i'i, it has been the superlative hook ofsuperlativt·s. But thne ar~ a few things it's never been, name­ly a plac~ for what the editors call "gratuitously dangerous" feats like the lowest height from which a handcuffed parachutist has dived or the thinnest burning rope ever to suspend a man in a straitjacket from a flying helicopter. 
"We are 3 or 4 percent zany, 25 pt·rcent sports achievements and the rest almost academic -the sciences and the like," McWhirter, 56, said. 
Among th~ new zany entries: 
•M. 
Lotito ofEvrey, France, who ate a bicycle during a 15-day period in 1977. He ate the frame in the form of metall1lings; the tires wen: cut into strips and "stewed." 

•Joe 
Swaltney, 19, who ate an 11-foot birch sapling -branches, leaves and a 4.7-inch diameter trunk-in 89 hours to win a Chicago radio station's "most outrageous" contest. 


-Count Desmond, of Binghamton, N.Y., who swallowed 13 23­inch-long sword blades. 
Desmond's sword-swallowing feats are the final word in that category. "We don't want him trying any more, saying he cut his guts out for Guinness," said David Boehm, 67, American editor of the book. 
The bike-eating cat~gory, which the book calls "the ultimat~ act of stupidity," was recorded because "it is unlikely to attract competi­tion." No other entries will be considered in that category. 
This year the fire-eating category is followed by a warning: "Fire­~ating is potentially a highly dangnous activity." Among eating records, McWhirter said the book will not list 
.See GUINNESS, page 4 

be based on definite facts, on false facts, or on a mixtur~ of tru~ and false facts," and he views the third condition as the most plausible. 
Relations between the Federal Republic ofGermany and th~ United States, however, have been strong, Schweitzer asserted. The govern­ments of both countries have adopted similar foreign and defense policit•s, which are based on the concept of "triangular interdep~n­dence of goals," which recognizes no alernative to detente and the ur­g~ncy of obtainng an arms equi­librium. 
Washington has recently matJe some "surprising leaps and state­ments," Schweitzer said, which may not be advantag~ous for relations between W~st Germany and the U.S. 
But Schweitz~r did emphasiz~, nonetheless, that th~ majority of West Germans are sympathetic with th~ U.S. regardless of the administra­tion. · Schweitzer defined the interest~ of the Federal Republic of Germany, NATO, and the United States as being basically the same. He also d~dared the F~deral Republic of Gt·rmany one of "the United States' most reliable allies." 
Schweitzer, a professor of politi­cal science at the University ofBonn, WeM Germany, is currently a visit­ing professor at the University of Toronto. He is also engaged in an ex­tensiv~ lecture tour of the Mid-West and Eastern U.S. 
Schweitzer, who is active in West German politics, is also the author of several publications which concern Germany's relationship with otht·r countries. 
r 

r 
f 

Ill I be I ihs<'rt'<'r and I be Ass"ciall'd Prl'ss 
President Reagansaid yesterday the Senate's 52 to 48 approval of his arms sale to Saudi Arabia will strengthen "our economic lifeline to the Middle East." Minutes after his victory over the AWACS sale, Reagan told reporters in the Oval Office, "I think we've seen the upper chamber at its best." Reading from a typed index card and speaking in a hoarse voice, the president said, "Our friends should realize that steadfastness of purpose is a hallmark of foreign policy, while those who would create instability in this region should note that the forces ofmoderation haveour unequivo­cal support in deterring aggression." Asked if he could foresee any circumstances under which the administration would renege on its agreement to deliver the Airborne Warning and Control System jets, Reagan said, "I would think that the only thing that could happen to make us not fulfill that would be if by some chance the radical ele­ments that we know are there ... should gain control in the Middle East." -AP · 
Lawyers for the decertified air controllers uni­on said yesterday the union would end its strike if the govetnment would allow it. In a letter sent to the Federal Labor Relations Author­ity, the executive board of the Professional Air Traffic Controllers Organization asserted that some II,500 former air controllers "have been locked out by their former employer and could not return, even if so ordered." The letter was approved by the nine-member PATCO executive board, meeting in Baltimore, and delivered to the labor relations authority here by union counsel Richard Leighton. It was in response to a dissenting opinion delivered by Ronald W. 
Haughton, chairman of the FLRA, last Thurday when the agency or· dered immediate revocation of PATCO's right to represent workers. Although all three members of the authority signed the decertifica­tion order, Haughton wrote a dissenting opinion, saying he felt there was insufficient evidence to warrant such an action. -AP 
Thousands braved driving rain yesterday to cheer Prince Charles and Princess Diana on their first official visit to the Celtic principality of Carmarthcn, Wales. For the second time this week, Welsh nationalists planted a bomb in a city on the royal route. The device was far enough from areas the couple is expected to visit that it apparently was intended as a protest, not an attempt on their lives. Army experts defused a fire bomb in the British Steel Corp. offces in Cardiff, 55 miles west of Carmarthen after a teiephone caller claiming to represent the "Welsh Army of the Workers' Republic," announced its presence to a local radio station. Police said they had never heard of the group before. -AP 
A reputed Black Liberation Armymember wanted in Last April's shootng oftwo policemen in Queens has been identified as a participant in the shootout that followed the ambush ofa Brink's armored car, sources said yesterday. A witness has picked out the photograph of BLA member Anthony Laborde on two occa­sions, the sources said. One source close to the invesgation said the witness identified Laborde as being involved in the shootout at sub-. urban Nyack after a gang shot up a Brink's armored car and made off with $1.6 million in nearby Nanuet on Oct. 20. Two police officers were killed in the Nyack gunbattle following the armored car heist that left a Brink's guard dead. The money was recovered. Laborde, 31, ofQueens is wanted on a federal fugitive warrant in connection with last April's ambush oftwo Queens polieen. OfficerJohn Scaran­gella died in that shootut and his partner, Richard Rainey, was injured. Laborde also has been named as a suspect in the 1979 New 
Jersey prison escape of Joanne Chesimard, a leader of the Black 
Liberation Army. -AP 

Two additional rounds of balloting Wednesday failed to break the deadlock between incumbent Kurt Waldheim and Tanzanian Foreign Minister Salim Ahmed Salim in the contest for 
U.N. Secretary General, well-placed sources said. After six rounds of secret balloting over two days, the sources said the voting trend continued in Waldheim's favor, but the 62-year-old former Austrian foreign minister remained blocked by a veto, apparently cast by China. Salim, who has the endorsement of the 51-nation Organiza­tion ofAfrican Unity and the 93-nation group ofnon-aligned nations, fell short of the nine votes required for nomination by the Security Council. The votes against Salim included at least one cast by a per­manent council member, presumably the United States. -AP 
Researchers say they changed one type of blood into another using an enzyme from green coffee beans, a development that could help eliminate periodic shortages of blood. Using the enzytne, researchers changed Type B blood into Type 0, the univer­sal donor type that can be transfused into virtually any patient, according to Dr. Mercy Kuriyan, medical director of New Jersey Blood Services. -AP 
Chance of rain developing late tomorrow attcrnoon, otherwise a warming trend. Mostly sunny today and tomorrow, with fair nights. High in upper 60s to low 70s. Low tonight in middle 40s. High tomorrow 70 to 75. -AP 

Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
The Obsen•er is an independent Ediwrials represent the 
Thursday, October 29, 1981 -page 2 
.An esti~ated !0? FBI agents, aided by state and county of­ftcers, ratded tbts tsolated bouse near Gallman Miss., arrest­ing Cynthia Priscilla Boston, 33, ofNew Orleans, wanted in connection with last week's robbery of a Brink's armored truck in New York. (AP photo) 
APPhoto 



File 


HOLOCAUST CONFERENCE: 
Elie Weisel, chairman ofthe U.S. Holocaust Memorial Conference, left, talks with Lt. Gen. (Res.) Vas­sily Yakolevicb of the U.S.S.R. during a session of the Interna­tional Liberators Conference 1981 which is meeting in Wash· ington. (AP Photo) 
The_Ohs.er_v:er 
Design Editor................... Deirdre Murphy 
Design Assistants.......... Mike McCaughey 
Randy Rentner Typesetter ............................... Bruce Oakley News Editor................................... Kelli Flint Copy Editors ...................Tom Melsheimer 
Joe Musumeci 

Features Layout.............. Gregory Swiercz Sports Copy Editor............. Skip Desjardin Typist ....................................John McCanhy Systems Control ................... Bruce Oakky ND Day Edltor.....................)oe Musumeci SMC Day Editor....................... Cece Baliles Ad Design ................................. Fran & Mark Pbotographer............................John Macor Guest Appearances .................... Too Many Multitudes ~fReponer·Types Celebrated Jumping Frogs of St. Joe County MolineUI and a Shoner One A Man and His Mouse 
Griff sans Secundus 

Assorted Sordid Women "Something tells me it's all happening at 
the zoo." 

MAYORAL WINNER: 
Former UN AmbasadorAndrew Young and his wife jean enter his campaign headquarters as returns in Atlanta's mayoral race show him leading Sidney Marcus. Final results show Young the winner with 55.1 percent of the vote. (AP Photo) 

SURVIVOR MIMICS WAVES: 
During a press conference at tbe Krome Avenue detension center in Miami, Florida, Frank jean, 24, uses his hands to describe bow a series of waves overturned the boat in which be and over 60 more Haitians were trying to reach the Florida Coast. 33 ofhis compatriots died when the boat 
overturned. ( APPhoto) 
Observer notes_~--------. 
T~e Observer announces the appointment of Anthony Walton, a semor from Batavia, Ill., as Editorials Editor. Walton has served as an editorial columnist and as Features Editor. Gregory Swiercz, a senior from Hammond, Ind., has been named Features Editor. Swiercz has served as a design editor. 
The Observer also announces the following promotions to the· position ofStaffReporter: seniors Bill Kolb andJim McClure, juniors Molly Noland and Michele Dietz, sophomores Mike Schier! and Mark Rolfes, and freshmen Carol Camp,' Margaret Fosmoe, Robert Marovich, Jim Plamondon, Colette St. Aubin, Bob Vonderheide Roger Wilke, and Mark Worscheh. ' 
There was an error in the article Student Ticket Exchange Features HPC Meeting, which appeared in yesterday's Obseroer. It was incorrectly written that the first I,000 students will get in free to hockey games during the team's current season. The first 1,000 stu­dents will be admitted free to the first season arne on! . 


newspaper published by the students of the majority of the Editorial Board. Commen· 
News Editor.............................David Rickabaugh Business Manager .........................Rich Coppola
University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint taries, opinions and letters arc the views o( 
Sports Editor ..............................Michael Ortman Controller............................................ .]oe Mulflur
Mary's College. It does not necessarily their authors. Column space is available to 
Editorials Editor.......................Anthony Walwn Advertising Manager.......................Chris Owen
reflect the policies of the administration of all members of the community, and the free either institution.. The news is reported as expression of varying opinions on campus, 
Features Editor.........................Gregory Swiercz Production Manager...................Michael Monk accurately and as objectively as possible. through letters, is encouraged. SMC Executive Editor...........Mary Agnes Carey Circulation Manager .............Tom Maclennan 
Editorial Board and Department Managers 
Editor-in-Cbief..............................John McGrath SMC News Editor......................Cathy Domanico Executive News Editor......................... Kelli Fiint Photo Editor........................................John Macor 
opm10n of a 
News Editor..................................Tim Vercellotti 


The Observer Thursday, October 29, 1981 -page 3 




1Soviet sub' 

S-weden protests violations 
Tuesday night and that Swedish But a chief of staff spokesman,
STOCKHOLM, Sweden (AP)-A lSO-foot Soviet submarine with a naval rcinf(>rccmcncs were on their ruling out the: possibility of naviga­
way to ward them off. tional failure, said, "You only have tocrew of S4 was stuck fast in a secret zone ncar a Swedish naval base Tues­Other observers of the grounded look at the: nautical charts to realize that it is virtually impossible:."
day. Sweden lodged a strong protest sub included two American naval at­with the Soviet Union over violation taches, presently making a study "To get that far inside the ar­I of Swedish territorial waters and visit at the Karlskrona naval school. chipelago requires very careful !· refused Kremlin requests to tow the -·The: sub ran aground in the navigation," spokcsmanJanake Berg 
PEACE CORPS 
sub free. Karlskrona Archipelago, which juts said. j Authorities said Warsaw Pact uni­into the: Baltic. The captain, iden­Swedish Foreikn Minister Ola Ul­
l
lstc:n also said the: government found 


PRACTICES
ts equipped for submarine: salvage: tified only as Gushin, blamed 
"navigational error due to faulty the captain's plc:a "unacceptable" l
apparently were: heading toward the: and demanded an explanation from l\
area 300 miles south of Stockholm radar and bad weather," officials 

APPLIED SCIENCE.
where the submarine ran aground said. the Soviets. 
,. 
I 

'Country-rock' i ' 
• Conroy publicizes Jamboree 

By MOLLY NOLAND 
StaffReporter 

The signs posted about campus proclaiming "The jam is coming ... The Jam is coming" were explained today by Student Union officer Kevin Conry as publicity for the second annual Country Rock Jam­bon-c. 
Dn·mnl "The best concert I've seen on campus in two years" by a 
former ND student, last year's 
Country Rock Jam featured 
musicians such as John Hall. Vassar 
Clements, and flcartsfield. And this 
year's "Jamboree", set for November 
20 from H:OO p.m. to I:00 a.m in Stepan Center is under way with musical artists whose sounds range from bluegrass to jazzy rock, to reggae. 
• • • AWACS 
continuedfrom page I 

Andrews of North Dakota was think­ing ofdoing the same. 
Hours before the vote, Reagan declared in a letter to the Senate that the sale of AWACS radar planes and thl· jl't fighters arc no threat to Israel and that Americans will be involved in the Saudi operations "well into the I990s." 
Four of the 24 AWACS aircraft within the U.S. inventory already arc operating with Amerkan crews in Saudi Arabia to guard against pos­sible air attack by Iran or other 
hostile powers. Under provisions of 
the proposed sale, the Saudis would 
receive five AWACS in 1985, but 
they would be models without ad­
vanced features such as jam­
resistant communications devices. 

Reagan, seeking to allay fears that a Saudi Arabia armed with AWACS will tip the balance: in the Middle East against Israel, wrote in his letter that conditions had imposed to assure that would not bc thc case. 
If the Saudis violatc any of those agrccmcnts, Reagan said "thc sale will bc cancelled and no cquipmcnt or services will be dc:livcred." 
Thc featured groups for this year's Jam include Buck's Stove & Range Co., (billed as Chkago's premier 
Bluegrass band by WXRT Radio); John Baylc:y (a specialist in reggae and <-·alypso music); and the Ozark Mountain Daredevils (considered a cross between thc Oulaws and Pablo 
Cruz). 
Tickets go on sale today in the Stu­
dent linion ticket office ( SS.OO at Sll 
and 56.00 at the door), and Jam 
chairman Kevin Conry urges 
everyone to "Grab a blanket and a 
fricnd and plan on attending the 
Jamboree for one of the best and 
most fun entertainment events of 
the: year". 
The Observer (USPS 598 920) is published Monday tl)rough Friday and on home football Saturdays, except dunng exam and vacat1on penods. The · Observer is published by the students of Notre Dame and Sa1nt Mary's Col­lege. Subscriptions may be purchased for $25 per year ($15 per semester) by writ1ng The Observer. P 0 Box 0. Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 
The Observer IS a member of The Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
Second class postage pa1d at Notre Dame, lnd1ana 46556. 


NOTRE DAME vs. PENN STATE 
Trip leaves Friday; November 20 and returns Sunday, 
November 22. $110 includes: Game ticket, bus fare and refreshments, two nights hotel at Holiday Inn with Team and Cheerleaders. 
or $85 without hotel 

Packages are available this Wednesday, Thursday and Friday at Student Activities Office, 1st Floor LaFortune on a first-come first-served qasis. Only 25 spaces remain. 
Bring cash, check, or money order. To inquire call 7308. 
And Peace Corps volunteers with science backgrounds do the applying. Teaching biology to high school stu­dents, working on sanitation improvements or disease control. If you have science training or aptitude and care 
to help others, apply.  
::c~ister  nmJ  at rlacer lent  Dureau  or:  
Lcl.an's  ;:all/St.  IJry  for  interviews  
Thur.  &  Fri.  ::ov  1~  &  lJ  

• ~~~..... 

.
• 
• 
l: 



RODNEY •• •• •• DANGERFIELD 

·········~··························..···········..................................... 
The Observer 
Thursday, October 29, 1981 -page 4 
• • • Guinness

~ IUrltarb's :HJ\11il\ ~~JI~N~ Open 6 days a wee~.;_; __Just -/North 417 DIXIEWAY -across from Wend_ys ,.,.0 f -Campus 277-0734 _ personalized Hair Desi!(ns  

The "Iron Maiden" category is an­•Picasso was a prolific painter, but
continuedfrom page 1 
other being stopped. Vernon Craig Morris Katz, 49, of New York City records for potentially dangerous of Wooster, Ohio, set the record in made the new book after finishing items such as live ants, goldfish, 1977 by lying between beds of nails his 82,000th saleable painting. Katz chewing gum or raw eggs in shells. with 1,642 pounds ofweight on top. says he sells his paintings "cheap and 
Bursting a hot water bottle with "It's quite extraordinary, but l often." sheer lung power has also been think if they go up much higher •Walter Cavanagh of Santa Clara, retired as medically "most inad­there's a great danger someone will Calif., has the world's largest credit visable," with the title going to be impaled. We feel that's something card collection -1,098 cards with a 

Franco Columbu, who burst one in we shouldn't encourage." 23 seconds in August 1979. Other new entries include: 
Piell Up 

And Enjoy 

Your Spirits Lower Priees! 



Cases 

Old Milwaukee 
NIKOFF VODKA 
1.75 Liter

Miller Moosehead Tortilla 6-pack 449 Tequilla 750 ML.


KEGS 


Bud or Busch 3399 Michelob 
37 99 1621 South Bend Ave. call us for all your party needs! 233-4603 Roseland 272-2522 

r)IW.<~~)NC)a,.~<}11'J'('11!«'in~e<;~.!'C<~;f«<-l':~;~.--~~-)O-,C>-.~~'~)~)!1Ci()QII()!W.<~lli3t<cK4M;gc:<".,ZC"C~!O~:f,;:e~::'~·l£•:::·::;$C(~tf!R-, 
I HAS A BIG TREAT FOR YOU I
I ~
HGIIoween DG.Y SGieI saturday oct. 31., 10 Am -10 Pm 
~ 
?1'; 
~
I 
~~ for some of the best deGis Groundl! 
1.00 off Gil LP's & tGpes In stock
I
;~.~ 

feGturlng some of the IGtest on CBS Records Gnd TGpes free pGpers with JJO purchGse

I. ~-~ 
I
I 
i ,~~ 2I 
~ 
i ~ 
I ~ 
Dan Fo~:elher~: & Tim ~fi!isher~: Twin Son.1· ofDijfi•rent Mothers Featuring Tell Me To My Face/The Power Of Gold  
DAN FOGELBERG SOUVENIRS Including: Part Of The Plan/Better Change IllinOis /Changing Horsas There$ A Ptace In The Wortd For A Gambler  
Dan Foxelherx Captured An~:el including: Next Time/9elow The Surface10kl Tennessee Comes And Goea/These Days/Man In The Mirror  
DAN FOGELBERG 1'1101-:~IX •ncluding· Phoenu./The Last To Know Wishing On The Moon/longer/Face The Fire  

Dan 
Fogelberg Nether 




I 12~


j fijelief 
Lands 







---·· ~~­
":",£§

1 
r~~:~~:: 
loo... End•


I :::~7~'' ~:~ 
DAN FOGELBERG 

THE INNOCENTAGE 
including: Same 0'.:1 Lang Syne Lost In The Sun Leader OfThe Band Ghosts Run For The Roses Hard To Say 
KE2 37393 

Look for his new album ,"The Innocent Age." And collect Dan Fogelberg's com­plete works. 
nil JI.OO oH plus more on Hnlloween nt 

JUST FOR THE RECORD Co 
combined line ofcredit of $1.25 mil­lion. 
•The world's most prolific living mother is Leontina Albina, 57, ofSan Antonio, Chile, who has produced 44 children and was pregnant when the book went to press. 

One record holder is the book it­self, the "all-time copyrighted best­seller and world's fastest selling title," with 44 million copies in print increasing by 60,000 to 80,000 a week. It's published in 23 languages, and a Chinese edition will come out this year. 
McWhirter and his twin brother, Ross, were 29 when Arthur Guin­ness, Son & Co. Ltd. -brewers of Guinness Stout -hired them to compile a book of facts that would help settle arguments in pubs. The McWhirters already were running a research bureau that fed newspapes with obscure sports records. 
Boehm became the book's American publisher and editor in 1957. When Ross was killed by Irish terrorists in 1975, Norris took over their firm, Guinness Superlatives Ltd. 

Guinness editors say they've al­ways been cautious about encourag­ing dangerous record attempts. U.S. television shows like "That's In­credible!" worry Boehm and McWhirter who think the programs encourage risk-taking. 
"They're going past the normal, common-s~c:nse limits of endurance and we don't want to," Boehm said. 

free music box membership with JJO purchGse free record sleeves with every LP purchGse


~~~(c.-1.
\0 

BILLY JOEL BILLY JOEL BILLYJOEL
I 

52'" STREET STREETLI.~~u;n~RENADE 
GLASS 
The Entertaoner

i DltJiJ/li:JJy JJ(()~lt:!J I 
IIOfiSES 
tncludmg

I SONGS IN THE ATTIC 
All For Leynll

~;,;;;~' ''"' I[LosAng~~~:~~~~~~~1:n~ponde" I
including:

I, Say Goodbye To Hollywood I've Loved These Days/Captain Jack 
Unt1l The N1ghl

Summer, Highland Falls/Miami 2017 
Honesty SMell!' 
You May BeA•ght 
Oon\As\<
Say Goo:;~:~~o~ollywood 
Me Why NewYark State 01 M•ncl I've Lotted These Days,Jameto 

tDontWant M1amt 2oi7(Seen the hgh!S go ou1 on Broadway) 
To Be Alone 
ltsSt11l I

Bif~l' Jodi Piww .Han Rock and Roll mcludtng ToMe 
Captam Jc1ck 'Worse Come!> To Won.t The BallatJOI tJIIIyTheKld Slop In Ne'o'ada Travehn· Praver 
BILLY JOEL THE STRANGER 
mcludmg Just The Way You Are Scenes From An Italian Restaurant Movm Out (Anthony s Song) Only The GoodOte Voung!V1enna 
/)

On't 
~~s~~Jf~~?~J'l\~~ 46544 trJe and :.~; :": f11,
1 




L...________.a..,__:~::.:.,__,.,_,_ ~. lJa II 
~­

The Observer Thursday, October 29, 1981 -page 5 

Burtchaell discusses God, reconciliation 
By PAUL McGINN 
Neu•sStaff 
As part ofCampus !\1 inistry's Cal_h­olic Inquiry St-rit:s, Fr. James Burtchadl lectured on "Confession: Why Tell a Priest?" 
Fornll'r provost and theology department d1airman. Burtchadl stands as om· of the nation's foremost theologian.~. having publislu·d numerous works on an­dent and modern topics. 
Spl·aking to a standing-room-only crowd at llayes-lkaly Auditorium, Burtdladl examined four misun­derstamlings surrounding conks­~ion: <iod, sin, ti>rgiveness, and tht· sacramental meaning of PenanlT. 
Burtchadl stated that while Penance is one of the earliest sacra­ments to be changed into the ver­nal·ular, it remains "in many cases, one of the least rdimned." 
In <.kscrihing the meaning of sin, Burtdladl said, "When we sin, we disobey ... and offend the Lord." 
In t·xamining the topic of God, Burtchadl oft(:rnl a humorous motkrn adaptation of the Prodigal Son. a story which truly conn:rns the love ofa t;tther which is different from any lovt· mortals know: "I k loves us because . . . I k is our father." 
Rdi:rring to sin, he noted that it is 
"highly omsdous...a matter of 
choice." In that vein. he added that 
littk malice but "a lot ofevil''t·xists. 
Burtchadl maintained that the 
Church explains sins as things that 
kill. "The troubk is, you don't ted 
it," he commented. "It kills our 
ahility to know our true selves." 
"Wt· are not awan: of our daily 
deaths ... Our prohkm is to turn 
oursdves and we cannot do that 
without hdp." 
Burtchadl made rdt:rt·nces to the 
twelve steps of Alcoholics 
Anonymous as he rdnforu:d 
Penance as "an arrangement bet­
ween ourselves," so as to help one 
another and to recover. 
Burtt·hadl further stressed that al­though Penance holds a very real sacramental function, "the Church has no franchise on forgiveness." 
l-Ie defined the priest's role as that of a recognized forgiver who, through word and act, teaches others to forgive. 
Burtchadl developed the thought further as he stated that those ti.>r­given should then hecomt: forgiving themselves. The passing on of that forgiveness is the purpose ofconfc:s­sion. 
Questioned on the difkrenn:s be­twet·n public and private confc:ssion, Burtchadl spoke of the one-to-<me meeting as a confronting of conscience against itself in which a "moment of truth" greets the penitent. Burtchaell conduded that a priest who deals in particulars through the Sacrament of Penance brings a person face to face with himself 

Dr. George Pimental of the Uniuersity of yesterday on the use of infrared spectroscopy of Caliji>rnia at Berkeley, the Dreyfuss Distin­crvogenic solids to follow their rates ofreaction. guished Scholar, deli11ered an interesting lecture (Photo b)'john Macor) 


I\liS 


1 ~liilDU~ ·.·. I 
I [*l~ THE F~~UA SCHOOL I
I iilllii I
OF BUSINESS 

I I 
I I
1 A representative of the Fuqua School of 1 I Business will be on campus Friday, I
I I

November 13, to discuss the Duke MBA I Program. Interested students may obtain I
I I

further information by contacting the I Placement Bureau. I 
I I 
I I 
, 


NAVY RECRUITING 
If you desire financial assistance, 
scholarship, or guaranteed job opportunities upon graduation; then you should enter 
12-13 NOVEMBER 
as an important date in your calendar That is the day we are providing info and interviews in all areas of: 
·AVIATION ·ENGINEERING ·PERSONNEL MANAGEMENT 

BARCLAY'S FRESH APPROACH: 




NOW YOU
CAN 

AFFORD 
TOBE 
---.... 
,J / . •, '); 

Dig into the menu broiled in our that won't sink your special barbe­budget. cue sauce, for Talk about a fresh 
So.65. Or. a 
approach. we think 

beefy Rib Eyeyou'll find more on 
Steak, cut from our menu for the the prime rib money than anv­
and charcoal wher~ in town .. And 
nroilcd to capturethere's enough all the outdoor fla­variety to enjoy a 
vor. Just S6.7.'i. And • different seleciion 
all our dinners come everv ni~ht for two with all the home­weeks! ­
made soup you For instance. trv want, special gar-a tender one-hal( 
lic bread. and yourBBQ Chicken in choice of our rice. our own tangy bar­
home fries or baked beeue sauce. just 
potato.
S4.l).'i. Or. our 

So drop hy and Heartv Prime Rib cat up on some low 
bones: slowly . 
prices. 










Features 
Thursday, October 29, 1981 -page 6 
Susan Kelleher 

Speaking of subways and toll plaza~ ... 
0 
ver October break, I had the unequivocal honor of atteading Merrill Lynch's Alfred E. Smith Dinner at the Waldorf-Astoria Hotel. (My dear father had taken ill, so, don­ning a tuxedo, I went in his place.) As I nursed a Perrier and lime, my colleague and I surveyed the crowd. 
"Hey, look!," he said, pointing across the room. "That's). Peter Grace over there with Nancy Reagan." "Fantastic!," I said. "He's just the man I want to see." I made my way through the crowd ofsocial luminaries with visions ofsubways dan­cing in my head. 
"Mr. Grace," I shouted, waving my arms. "Mr. Grace!" 
J. Peter Grace (Grace Plaza, Grace Hall, Grace Chemical) 
turned to me with an incredulous stare. 
"What is it?," he asked, as Nancy shot me a look. 
"I'm a Notre Dame student," I explained, "and I have a small favor to ask ofyou." 
"Notre Dame!," he exclaimed, pumping my hand vigorous­
ly. "Why ofcourse. Anything for the Golden Dome. What can I 
do for you?" 
"How about constructing a subway from the Golden Dome 
to the Big Apple?" I asked. "Nothingfancy, just somethingakin 
to the subways in this fair city along the length of Route 80 
with-" 
"Are you daft?" he asked, interrupting me. "Here," he said, 
handing me his Manhattan, "you need this more than I do." 
As I watched him widk off, I said to myself, "Gee, thanks Mr. G., but I needed this drink two days ago when I had to make the annual October pilgrimage from Notre Dame to New Jer­sey. Ifyou knew what that trip is like, you might have taken my subway idea a bit more seriously." 
Given the fact that travel costs are skyrocketing, and the very nature of the N_otre Dame-New York haul-it's twelve hours too long -constructing a subway between these two points is not as preposterous as it might sound. I have reached this conclusion based on the experiences -living nightmares, ifyou will-that I have tolerated while making this journey. My most recent voyage was no exception. 
This time I had to drive my family's Honda back to Jersey and leave it there. Because my, knowledge ofcars is rather limited -I have recently mastered the self-servicing pump; but have yet to change a flat -and I don't like to drive, I combed the directory in search ofsomeone who possessed these qualities. 
"Hdlo?", asked a sleepy voice. 
"Hello," I said, feeling slightly foolish. "May I speak to Sal?" 
"This is Sal." said the voice. 
"Sal, you don't know me, but word has it that you are a su­
perb mechanic and love to drive. How about afree ride to N.J. 
for October break?" 
"Jersey?", he asked, reiterating the only six-letter dirty word known to mankind. "How about a free ride to New York in­stead? I'm from Long Island, but you could drop me off in Flushing." 
"Ofcourse, ofcourse," I said, "No problem." Relieved to have found a driver, I unthinkingly acquiesced, forgetting that venturing into the wilds of Flushing would lengthen the trip considerably. 
When I picked up Sal the next evening, he announced that he had had three labs to write and a test to study for and that , consequently, he had gotten only three hours ofsleep. 

As it turned out, Sal drove only a third ofthe way. He was kind enough to drive through Pennsylvania, but slept during most ofthe trip. As I crossed the George Washington Bridge en route to Flushing, Sal was in what had come to be his cus­tomary state ofsomnambulism. Delirious with fatigue, I 
turned to him for directions. At that point, Sal looked like a 
leftover from the Giancana clan, and my delirium and vivid im­
agination got the better of me. 

· "Sal, you thug," I said, trying to wake him, "where do I go 
from here?" 

"Huh? What?" he asked, coming to life. "Oh, take the Cross 
Bronx Expressway to the Triborough Bridge." 

Easier said than done, Sal. Simply",aking the Cross Bronx Expressway" necessitated my jumping two lanes ofheavy traf­fic and, in my fear-stricken state, I somehow wound up on the Henry Hudson Parkway, heading north rather than east. Quickly recovering my senses, I took the 125th Street exit in search ofa U -turn. I felt a bit uneasy. Harlem was just too close 
for comfort. At this point, Sal was wide awake and sweating profusely. He was finding out the hard way that my New York driving leaves much to be desired. 
"That's it, over there!," he shouted, his panic ill-concealed. "Take that exit to get back.on the Cross Bronx!" 
After what seemed like a week, I deposited Sal in Flushing, battled traffic on the Long Island Expressway, and·fought cabbies in midtown. I finally made it toJersey in one piece, on­ly to suffer severe jet lag for days after the trip. 
Then there's the one about the "Toll Plaza Queen." 
On this occasion, I rode with a fellow whose windsheild wipers were on the blink. As luck would have it, we drove at night during a severe thunderstorm and it was impossible to see. We wound up stopping at toll plazas along the way and sleepingon their miserable, red, plastic couches until the rain stopped. One of these days I will write a "Traveler's Guide to the Toll Plazas", for we must have slept in about eight ofthem. 
When I related this story to afriend who happened to be an especially vociferous Observerite, he affectionately dubbed me the "Toll Plaza Queen". For weeks afterward, he found it amusing to print personals to me, followed by that "toll plaza" title ofquestionable repute. Fortunately, the name didn't stick. 
Considerations ofspace will not allow me to mention al­ternate forms oftravel. But most ofyou ae probably familiar with these horror stories: ten hour layovers in the Detroit ­or worse yet -the Cleveland airport; the twenty hour train ride which now costs as much as flying used to; and Donna Summer and Bruce Springsteen fighting for airwave time on the ever infamous (and full)Jersey bus. 
There is, however, the Long Island bus for Donna Summer dissidents and punk rock enthusiasts. And the Long Island Club president will proudly tell you that his bus always has a keg ofbeer on tap. I asked my friend Rob from Long Island about this. 
"Oh sure," he said, "Frank always makes sure there's a keg in back. 1don't know ifit's such a great idea though, because last Christmas a freshman really got smashed. He wound up getting sick all over the bus and we had to tolerate that stench all the way to Mineola." 
"Yuk," I said, eloquent as ever. "So no more kegs on the bus, right?" 
"Wrong," he replied. "No more freshmen on the bus." 
All ofwhich makes my subway idea all the more attractive. (Are you listening, Mr. Grace?) Think of the endless pos­sibilities! What a fabulous way to escape the small-town, South Bend blues. Twelve hours ofyour time and a mere S25 round­trip fare could mean the difference between beer fights at Corby's and boogeying at Xenon. 
Who knows? If Mayor Koch ever gets his act together and revamps New York City's subways, maybe he'll sell the old cars -graffitti et a! -to Notre Dame. 
I should write Mr. G. a letter... 
. ]enny Pitts 

For shoppers, it's a 'mall~ worldafter all 
T
he last thing suburbia needs is another shopping mall. 
It really wouldn't break my heart 
ifthey decided to never build anoth­
er, or if the earth graciously opened 
up and swallowed a few. For some 
unknown reason someone keeps 
opening new malls, often just down 
the road from the older ones. Iguess 
it means that the life expectancyofa 
shppping mall is about three to four years. 
From what I can tell, the new malls are not much different from the obsolete ones. The stores are all the same. Sure, they are "chic-ed up" with more plants, wood, ramps, and skylights, but a year or so of wear and tear and its just another tacky mall. 
Malls are not hard to recognize ­they're all the same: Huge white brick structures and a million small­er ones form the enclosed "shopping environment". Off to either side is the obligatory movie theater and auto service center. Surrounding the whole complex is a huge, confusing parking lot. On the other side of the huge, con-fusing parking lot is a pathetic strip of stores, usually including a pet shop and a stereo repair place. 
The movie theaters: They are overpriced, always cold inside, too small (because there are six in space enough for two) and the doors exit at the back of the building miles from your car. Ifhe is willing to put up with these inconveniences the movie goer gets to see the latest releases. That is, if he is near the front of the line, half ofwhich won't fit in the too small theater. 
The automotive service center is neither central nor particularly in­terested in serving the customer. The shopper will discover this when her car stall in front ofSears. She will cross the mile ofconfusing parking lot, point helplessly at her distressed auto, and the attendent will reply: "We don't service Ma'am." 
The shops on the strip do little, if any business. Consequently, they cannot pay the high mall rent and are stuck on the strip. Nevertheless, they are guilty by association. 
Guilty of what? Ofbeing part of The Mall, ofcourse. 
The Mall, itselfwould not be believed ifnot for the fact that so many exist. 
Two middle class, all-purpose stores such as Sears andJ.C. Penney and two upper middle class stores such as Marshall Fields and Hudsons are the mainstays of the mall. There isn't much to be said about these stores; they are relatively boring places preoccupied (perhaps jus­tifiably so) with shoplifting. Ifyou are under twenty years old you are automatically suspect. That elderly lady following you around is probab­ly the security personnel. 
The millions ofsmall stores are a bit mor interesting. They are subur­bia's tribute to fashion, fads, and food. 
Every mall has its Jeans Store. There aren't any walls, just shelves piled to the ceiling with jeans and cords. Don't ask for any help in the Jeans Store. The undernurished teenage sales clerk with blond frizzy hair, wearing a black tee-shirt, will point first to the ladder and then to the fitting room. 
To wear with your jeans you can buy a "top" at the Top Shop. You can't buy a blouse or a shirt, only a 
"top". 
Malls seem to have an inordinate­ly high number ofCraft Stores. I will never understand how these places stay in business. How many people latch-hook that many rugs or build that many models or make even one quilt? Nevertheless, every mall seems to have a few ofthese stores. 
Then there is the food. I would guess that about halfofthe business at a mall is food oriented. And the variety is desigll_ed to please even the most discriminating mall gour­met. There are hot dogand hot pret­zel stands ("Do you want cheese on that?"), greasy hamburgers and chicken burgers, make-your-own baked potatoes, pizza, and tacos. For dessert there are oversized cookies and ice cream. 

There are also stores where you can purchase trendy food and food related novelty items. Jelly Bellies and quiche were recent hot items as were food processors and sqaure egg makers. All are passe today. We are currently between trends, but don't worry, Christmas is coming. 
In the center ofthe mall, in the ac­tual mall part, is the enter-tainment. Exhibitions and demonstrations, which change weekly, are designed to serve a dual purpose. They are supposed to attract shoppers who will then realize the merits ofthis particular mall over the one a mile down the road. Then, when they come and fail to find any par-ticular merits, the exhibitions must enter­tain these disgruntled shoppers. 
. Some ofthe exhibitions are seasonal. Santa Claus, the Easter Bunny, and other secular heroes are common. Some are organizations: a circus, a zoo, the Boy Scouts. The rest are the classics, little home­grown shows that travel from mall to mall. They are the Collectors. 
Antique collectors, trivia collec­tors (the Beatles, Elvis, baseball cards), candles, wooden plaques, macrame wall hangings -anything artsy-crafty is fair game. And price­less. Unless, ofcourse, you "just have to have it". Then the Collector becomes the Dealer. Never get too close to the Dealer. You will end up buying something you don't want and will never use. (Here's where I confess to paying S 1 for a 1972 Nixon/Agnew campaign button). 
But I could take allthis·mall non­sense ifit were not for one thing that really bothers me. So many people, especially little kids, waste so much time at these places. Used to be that shops were not open all weekend and families spent time together. Now they go to the mall. And when they go to the mall they "split up" and "meet here in two hours" and spend the day walking around eating ice cream, watching all the other people walking around eating ice cream. 
Did you ever notice the number oflittle kids and young teenagers that frequent malls? They run from store to arcade and back again. Parents move to the suburbsso their children will have a yard to play in and then the parents allow them to spend days on end at shopping cen­ters. The mall makes a cheap babysit­ter. 
So, what am I suggesting? Nothing, I guess. I'm just hoping that mails are as much a fad as the merchandise sold in them -a fad that is on its way out. 



New league, new optimism for Irish 
Student support 
Where we were and where we are 
By MICHAEL OLENIK 
.\fJorts Wrilt•r 
Well folk~. look no farther ti>r good news 
concerning a major sport at Notre Dame. A 
group lead hy a seasont·d and intclligt·nt 
coach intends to turn some rt•cent mis­
fortunt·s into a prt•tty exciting time at the ACC 
thb year. And hy the looks of things, they may 
not he too htr off hast·. 
With 1 Hh-ttermen n~turning and the arrival ofscvl-n touted frcshnll'n comes an atmos­phl·n-ofgl'llUinc optimism as the Irish bl·gin thdr initial campaign in the Central Collegiate llockl·y Association. 
One of the best sources ofoptimism is Irish Coach Charks "Lefty" Smith, who has stalked behind the Notre Dame bench h>r the last 13 years. llis prognosis on this year's squad lcaVt:s little doubt ofsucn:ssful intentions, hut it's the words and attitudes ofthe players themselves that really points to a revitalized season. Without further adieu, here is a closer look at Notre Dame's 1981-82 hockt·y team, barring injury: 
Forwards 
Putting tht: puck in tht: net should not be a major worry for the Irish this st:ason, as HO percent oflast year's scoringoutput returns to anack opposing netminders. Eleven letter­mt:ri in all will providt: tht: offense needed to keep the Irish in contention for the league leadership, including tilllr seniors. Returning as captain for the st:cond year is four-year startt:r at t:enter. Dave Poulin. Tht: Missis­sauga, Ontario, native began his career with a magnitkandreshman season, and while his production has fallen somewhat in the past two seasons, there is little doubt that he is Notre Dame's most consistent playmaker and scorer. Poulin finds himself cigth on the Irish all-time scoring list and probably willchal­lcngt: for the all-timt: goal scoring record ti>r a center bdore the season closes. 

Poulin, however, seems perfectly satisfied talking ofthe team's progress instead, and af­ter Notre Dame's early season success, he is quite content with that progress. "Everyone seems to finally have accepted their roles and art· doing what they arc capable of. Thl' dig­gers arc doing the digging and the scorers arc doing the scoring. The big thing is confidence, and I think our winning attitude and our relatively good health will only help us gain even more confidence as the season progresses." 
display occurred just hours after the United States O~vmpic hockey team won the gold medal. 
Notre Dame students sbou• theirsupportfor the Irish /Jockey program during the 1980 Marquette basketball game. This 
Flanking Poulin will be familiar figures Bill Rothstein and jeff Perry. Rothstein's scrappy style of play has helped t·ngravc his name in the mind ofmany opposingcoaches, especial­ly in man-short situations, and he looks to im­prove on last year's solid effort. Perry undoubtedly will make his presct·nce felt throughout the league this year, both physi­cally and on the scoreboard. Already, he has beaten opposing goalies six times in only four games as he attempts to leave last year's junior jinx bt:hind him. 
Another offensive standout for the front line is co-captainjeffLogan. Last year's kading scorer and team MVP, Logan's potential is un­limitl·d, as he possesess impressive stkk han­dling, skating and scoring skills that he unleashed consistently a year ago. The right winger gained valuable expricncc this past summer in the National Sports Festival where his t~:am won the gold medal, and he carnl-d runner-up scoring honors. 
Kirt Bjork will center the second linl' for Logan and freshman John lkascy. Bjork's eye­opening play of last yt:ar is remembered by many Irish fans. Quickness and a nose for the puck are this junior's forte, and improving on last y~:ar's 3S-point output would leaVl' Smith more than happy. 
The third line will be kad by Rex Bellomy, a pie t asant suprisc last season to many who weren't expecting too much from a native of Tennessee. Playing wing with the junior cen­ter will be Mark Doman and freshman Brent Chapman, and both will be out to prove that Notre Dame's offense is deep. 
There will be other talented forwards vying for playing time, and there is little doubt that 
See OUTLOOK, page 9 


Students FREE! 
The Irish hockey team will recognize the Notre Dame student body for tomor­row's home opener with "Student Ap­preciation Night." The first I,000 students presenting a Notre Dame or Saint Mary's • student ID card will be admitted FREE! Faceoff is scheduled for H p.m. and tht· gates open at 7 p.m. 

Saturday, March 22, 1980 -It marked the end of the nightmare 
and the beginning of the beginning. It wao; on that spring morning 
that the University ofNotre Dame released it Jong-awaitt•d statement 
which signaled a new beginning for Fighting Irish athletics. 
To briefly summarize: in january, a moratorium was placed on the 
issuing ofs~holarships to athletes in the non-profit bearing sports 
( hockcy-20, track-I I, baseball-four, men's tennis-two, wrestling­
two, and golt~one ), 40 grants-in-aid total. The concern about 
mt·cting spiraling inflationary trends put the status and future of 
these tt•ams in limbo, t·specially Notre Dame's top-tlight hockey 
program which wa<; losing over S100,000 a year. 
It took the powers-that-be nearly two months to get things straightent·d out. But after a bitter outcry from students, coaches, fans and the media, tht:y came up with a sound solution, the effects of which now arc in full throttle. Among them an: compliance with Title IX (scholarships in women's athletics), an athletic endowment fund, students paying for football tickets and the Irish hockey team in the Central Collegiate Hockey Association. 
The CCHA is far more geographically compact than Notre Dame's former league, the Western Collegiate Hockey Association. Travel expense are tar less without annual trips to Colorado, North Dakota and Minnesota. But the thing that may have a more significant and immediate t•ffect, especially on Notre Dame's student fans, will be 
winning 
When attending any event is fun, people will do it. Winning makes things fun for sports fans. Oh sure, screaming, hollering and cheering for the face-pan·d action ofhockey and the beers at the blut: line dub are fun, but winning compliments the other facets like nothing can. 
Notre Dame will win hockey games this season, and that, more than anything else, will bring out the student support that has been so evidently lacking over recent seasons. But the No. I student body in the world must ask itself the obvious question: "Are we really?" 

When a coach or team has needed support, the students have answered admirably. For its performance at tile 1978 upset of un­beaten, No. I basketball giant San Francisco, the student body was voted the game's MVP. Late in close football contests, the students rise to the occasion. And late in the 1979-80 hockey season, the stu­dents rallied. 
When the team's future was in jeopardy, Notre Dame students signed petitions, carried "SAVE HOCKEY and minor sports" signs at the nationally televised Marquette basketball game, and turned out for the final series ofthat season. And for that, students will be rewarded this season. The first 1,000 fans will be admitted free tomorrow night as part ofa "Student Appreciation Night" promo­tion. 
Don't let the "there's nothing to do on this campus" philosophy 
keep sports fans from the ACC on hockey weekends. For basketball 
games there's an excuse. Most of the games are lopsided and during 
the school week. 

Tomorrow, Lefty Smith and the Irish play their first home league game ofthe season. Off to its best start in the history of Notre Dame 

hockey ( 3-0-1 ), the team is born anew. No doubt winning will give 
February', 1980
Irish fans a Renaissance as well. 

The Irish Extra -Notre Dame Hockey Thursday, October 29, 1981 -page 8 
WCHA refugees strengthen CCHA 


By MIKE MCMANUS 
Sports Writer 
After a I 0-year stint in the Western Col­legiate Hockey Association, soaring travel costs have forced Notre Dame and ex-WCHA rivals Michigan, Michigan State and Michigan Tech to jump leagues and join the Central Col­legiate Hockey Association. The addition of these four teams increases the membership of the CCHA to I I teams with a 12th, Illinois­Chicago Circle, scheduled to round out the ranks for the 1982-83 season. 
The new teams will contribute more than just numbers, however, since they represent nationally prominent hockey programs that should enhance the level ofCCHA play and provide bigger headlines for the burgeoning league. 
The CCHA, which began as a four-team con­ference based in Ohio, enters it's IIth season and the expansion has brought about a new playoffformat to determine the eventual league champion and NCAA Final Four repre­:;~;;,t;:~!·:!:. T~':' rrf.IA has split itself into a North and a South Division wni• ,;,~ :::;-""" teams in each division at the end ofthe season advancing to the league playoffs to eventually determining a champion amongst themselves. 
What follows, then, is a brieflook at each team and it's prospects for the season. North 
Northern Michigan -Last year's fourth place NCAA finishers lost their top four scorers to grauation and the pros. But don't feel sorry for the two-time defending CCHA champs who invade the ACC tomorrow night. Sophomore goalie jeff Poeschl, who was the league's co-Rookie ofthe Year, returns as does a strong corps ofdefensemen t~.t, protect him. The Wildcats main concern will be to nurture 
their young offense, which will be led by 
sophomores Eric Ponath and Dave Mogush. 
Michigan Tech-The Huskies put togeth­er a glittering 29-14-1 record last year and look to be explosive offensively this season with six oftheir top eight scorers returning. In addition plenty oftalent returns to patrol the blue line and protect goalie Rob PolmanTuin, who had a fine 3.70 goals-against average last season. The Huskies should be near the head of the pack once again this year. 
Michigan State -The doormat of the WCHA last year, Michigan State hopes that the return of their top four scorers ofa year ago will bolster what was a popgun offense last year. Mark Hamway and Frank Finn led the Spartans in scoring last year but will need help if MSU expects to improve. Defensively the Spartans are young, with three freshmen ex­pected to sec a lot ofplaying time in front of goalie Ron Scott, who was outstanding a year ago. The Spartans will be better than last year, but are probably a year away from being a top contender. 
Lake Superior State -Rookie Coach Bill Selmon inherits a number ofreturning start­ers, but may have trouble staying afloat in his first season with the Lakers. Offensively, Lake Superior has two bona fide scorers in junior Steve Mulholland and senior Steve Sherman, but needs more production from the second and third lines. Defensively, Dave Keegan leads the returnees who will have to work ex­tra hard to hide Lake Superior's sub-par goaltending. 
Ferris State -Nineteen lettermen return from last year's 20-14-2 ~ditiQ.Q._Which.was 

-good ror a third-"iJface CCHA finish. Team cap­tain Jim Baker leads the Bulldog scoring parade and should receive plenty ofsupport from Paul Cook and Randy Strong, both of whom had solid seasons last year. Defensively, 1-LJ.J.:.., ~uu.'-u..:;_;.:-::: !!!!le and allOWS even leSS, as a strong blueline corps is backed up by strong goaltending in the form ofsenior Ted Ykema. Western Michigan -The Broncos success this season depends mainly on their defensive corps, which must improve if they hope to upgrade last season's 15-19-2 record. Five experienced letter-winners return on the backline to protect junior Steve Abbot, who was respectable in goal last year. Offensively Western Michigan boasts a pair ofall-America candidates in Ross Fitzpatrick and Bob Scur­field who must continue to produce if the Broncos hope to unseat the teams that topped them last year. 
South Michigan -Michigan must rely on a strongdefense ifthey hope to better last year's 23-1 7 record and trip to the WCHA finals last year. Steve Richmond and Dave Richter will spearhead Michgan defensively and attempt to hide the loss ofgoaltender Paul Fricker, who opted to turn professional after his soph­omore season. Veteran Peter Mason and two freshmen will attempt to fill Fricker's skates. The loss offive oflast year's top seven scorers puts pressure on junior Ted Speers, who will be expected to pick up much ofthe scoring slack. Miami (Ohio)-In only their second season in the CCHA, Miami hopes to push last 



...' 
Paul Fricker (29), a favorite target of more season, his team jumped leagues and Irish fan abuse, will not be in the nets for he jumped to the pros. (Photo by john the Wolverines this season. After his sopho-Macor) 



1981-82 CCHA 
season's 16-17-2 mark over the .500 level and make the playoffs in their initial season of eligibility. There is good reason to think they may, too, as the top five Redskin scorers return, led by forwards Steve Morris and Rick 
Kuraly. On defense, Miami boasts the loss of only one stalwart from last year's.squad. The goaltending once again will be split between 
Dan Kodatsky and Alain Chevrier who handled the chores last season. 
Bowling Green -Nineteen returning starters and the addition ofsix fine freshmen prospects have the Falcons hoping they can soar above last year's 13-24-2 mark. Offensive­ly, George McPhee and Brian Hills return to head what may become a very potent scoring machine. On defense and bet\\•een the pipes, though, the Falcons appear to be green as sophomores dominate the lineup. Bowling Green should see some improvement this year, but appear to be too young to challenge for the top. 
Ohio State -The Buckeyes, who are com­ing offa third-straight runner-up season in the CCHA, hope that this will be the year to finally 
grab the title. Paul Pooley and captain Larry Marson return to head the scoring attack which should be just as strong as last year's. The defense looks intimidating, with all CCHA performers Dan Mandich and Brent Morrow back for another season. The chink in the Buckeyes armor appears to be goaltending, with all-CCHA goaltender Mike Blake graduated and no outstanding replacement in 
sight. 
Notre Dame -The Irish appear to be strongenough to challenge in this division. An in-depth preview of Notre Dame is provided elsewhere in this section. 
In sum, the teams that appear to be strong­est in the Northern Division are Northern Michigan, Michigan Tech and possibly Ferris State. Michigan State, Lake Superior State and Western Michigan should fight it out for the tourth and final playoff spot. Down south, Notre Dame, Michigan and Ohio State figure to slug it out for the top three spots while Miami and Bowling Green will try to avoid being the only team in the division to miss the playoffs. 

The Irish Extra-Notre Dame Hockey Thursday, October 29, 1981 -page 9 
One thing constant in Irish 
hockey . . . Lefty Smith 
By MIKE SULLIVAN 
.\j}()rts Writer 
<:harks "J.dty" Smith returns with hopes of coaching the Notre Dame hockc:y tc:am to first plact· in its first season in the: Cc:ntral Col· kgiate llockc:y Association. Smith, a familiar face to Irish hoekc:y fans, bc:gins his 14th st·ason at tht· hdm. During his 13 yc:ars at Notn· Dame. his tc:ams have: accumulated a 216-222·23 rc:cord against the: best colkgc hot·kc:y tc:ams in the country. 
During Notre: Dame's I 0 sc:asons in the \X'c:stnn Collegiate Hockey Association, Smith coached the Irish iti two second-place finishcs and missc:d the WCHA playoffs only ont'l'. 
A nativ t e ofSouth St. Paul, Minn., Smith has
, played and coached hockc:y since his high school days. As a high school student he or­ganizc:d his school's hockey tc:am. He turned down hasehall scholarships (his nickname t·omc:s from his year~ as a Ic:ft-handed pitcher) 
from a numbt·r ofcolkgt·s including Notre: 
Dame:, instc:ad playing hockey at the: College 
ofSt. Thomas. Meanwhile he: was busy for­
ming pec:wc:e and midgc:t lc:aguc:s. 
So why did he: pick hockey ovc:r baseball or even tilOthall? "Hockey appealc:d to me most ofall," says Smith, "bt.-cause I thought it combined the: speed and quickness ofsome sports and the body contan and the tlnesse of otht·rs. It's a combination ofall sports. This sort ofintrigued me. Hockey's like a disc:ase­onn· you get it, it is hard to gc:t rid of." 
Smith hc:gan his..coaching carec:r in 1952 in tht· Minnc:sota junior kagues. He: later coached high school hockey for a number of years, posting a .744 winning percentage, somt·thing that attracted Notre Dame's attc:n­tion. 
'Ttl hc:cn offered thrn· jobs on the college kvd hdorc: I came hert·," Smith recalls. "The: thing that intrigued me most about this place was tht· philosophy of the athletic program. Tht•rt· was a great combination ofathletics and academics. Coaching high school for 14 or I 5 yt·ars, I had a chance: to watt·h our 
graduatc:s go on to collc:gc:. At some: colleges they wc:rc: highly c:xploitc:d. 
Tht· kids would go to school and be kc:pt digihlc: for thrc:e to four sc:asons and then they'd end up gc:tting thrown out ofschool. They wouldn't gc:t dcgrt•t•s. We: had other kids who went to Ivy Lc:ague schools where there was a good combination ofathktics and acadt·mics. 
"Coming to Notre Dame to he intc:rviewed for tht· job and to have a chance: to look ovc:r the: school was a very rc:vealing thing to me. Naturally. I'd heard of Notre Dame all of my lift· anti had hc:ard what a grc:at school it was, but at the same timt· I tlid not know much about it. <.>uite frankly, I had serious doubts as 



Brent Chapman Tim Reillv 


Sean Regan 
john Dease_v 

to what the athletic program woulll oc: hkc. 
"I was amazed at the way the athletes were not affordc:d jock-type classes. They weren't aft(>rdcd special privilcdgcs. They ate in the dining halls and stayc:d in the dormitories just like everyone dst·. As you walked around the campus, you couldn't tdl who was an athlete and who wasn't. That impressed me a great deal. It went along with the philosophy that I've always had. That's primarily why I came ht·rc." 
When Smith began building a program in 196H, he essentially started from scratch since Notre: Dame had not had hockey at the varsity level since 1927. Using the existingclub team to build on, and rc:cuiting a few players from Minnesota, he sent out a Notre Dame varsity hockc:y team, something that had not hap­pened since the days of the legendary Four Horsemen. 
Smith did the recruiting and scheduling himself, and bought the equipment and operated the icc rink facility in the brand new ACC. 
"It was my hope to establish a base on which we could continue the tradition of Notre: Dame athletics as far as the student­athlete situation was concerned," Smith remembers. "I wanted to sec every kid graduate. Secondly, I wantc:d to try to have as competitive a team as possible. 
"Ofcourse, whc:nevcr you coach at Notre Dame, certain things arc built in. You have to make sure that you are especially clean, be­cause you don't want to do anything that will dishonor the school. Secondly, because of the academic requirements, we have a much smallcr recruiting base than most other schools, but you still want to establish as good a program as you possibly can. That was the reason we went into Division I. 
"We have to push a little harder than some othc:r places, hut the type of kids and condi­tions at Notre Dame are very unique. Every­thing cpitomizc:s Fr. Hcshurgh's family-type philosophy. I think our students are a cut above the students at any other school that I've had the chance to visit. It makes for an ex­tremely enjoyable working atmosphere." 
Even though Smith has built a successful hockey program, he still is not completely satist1ed. "As long as you haven't won an NCAA championship; as long as you haven't bcl·n No. I at the end ofthe season -that is a thing we're still striving for. I'd like to envision that we're going to be one of the top teams, year in and year out." 
Smith believes that there is more to coach­ing than winning, however. "I'd like to think that I've helped to mold or develop young people; that I may have done something that will be ofa lasting value:." 
"I c:njoy Notre Dame a great deal. I hope that I can continue coaching. Hockey's been my life, and I'd like to stay in it in some form." 

Charles "Lef~v" Smith has coached every the days of the Four Hoursemen. See Mike varsi~y game played by Notre Dame since Sullivan's story• at left. 
continuedfrom page 7 

Adam Parsons, John Higgins and Dan Collard will make a large impact on the success of the Irish this season. All have enough experience to become immediate factors in the Notre Dame offensive system, and Smith will not look lightly on their abilities as the year wears 
on. 

Defense 
Ifthere is a question concerning this year's hockc:y edition. it would have to center on the bludinc corps. Although the defense is anchored by two seasoned and talented seniors, the Irish must receive consistent l'f. forts fro two sophmores and two freshmen. In Jim Brown and .John Schmidt, Notre Dame possesses a combination ofleadership and ability that othc:r teams will tlnd tough to match. Look for Brown, a 6-4 native of Phoenix, Ariz., to make his checks and shots known to both onrushing forwards and un-· suspecting goaltenders. 
An imposing tlgure on the icc, Brown realizes his role and readily accepts it. "We'll have to play good fundamental hockey in or­der to do the job that the team needs," Brown admits. "John and I will just try to do our best to lead by example, and I thihk the younger players will have no problem in doing the job real soon." 
Schmidt, a more offcnsivc-mindc:d dcfcn­scman than Brown, and has been a stalwart on defense for the last three years, starting every game over that span. With a relative lack ofex­perience on the blueline however, Schmidt will be called upon even more to protect Notre Dame's defensive zone. 
Sophmores Tony Bonadio and Joe Bowie will have an opportunity to show what they learned during last season, as both will become wdl acquainted with the ACC icc as ';fell as the opponents rinks' as the Irish make their way throug);llcaguc play. 
Goaltending There will be: two familiar faces between the pipes for the Irish once again this year, and that fact is as much cause for optimism as any. 
• • • Outlook 
Dave Laurion and Bob McNamara comprise an intimidating goaltending tandem, as each has shone brightly in their respective Notre Dame careers.. With Smith changing his split-time philosophy, Laurion will have plenty of chances to prove that he has recovered from an off-season knee operation, and that he can regain the freshman form that propelled him into the WCHA spotlight. 
As Laurion sees it, such a change will be good for whatever goalie is hot and gets the nod. "I really think this system is better be­cause it keeps your mind totally on the series at hand, and you can learn from the other team throughout the series." 
Larion speaks contldently about the play of the Irish defensive units. "It hasn't affected me at all because thc:y've played very consistently thus far. I'm also trying to play more ofa stan· dup style rather than to go down too quickly. So far, it has worked out pretty wdl." 
McNamara, a standup goalie by nature, will give Laurion all the competition he needs, as he often turned in outstanding.pcrformanccs last season. The Toronto native picked up over 40 saves in six appearances a year back, showing that he has the ability to shut the door _whc:n the going gets tough. 
Freshmen 

The seven high-caliber freshmen that Smith and assistants Len Moher and Terry Fairholm came up with have made an immediate im­pact. Dcasey has broken onto the second line anti Chapman skates with the third, but it is the overall confidence and talent that the group displays as a whole that is most im­pressivl·. 
Tim Reilly is penciled in at right wingon the fourth line and two freshmen arc taking regular defensive shifts. Sean Regan, who scored an important goal at Ohio St. last Satur· day, is paired with Brown on the first shift. Rookie: Steve Ely plays on the third defensive shift with Bonadio and has played steady hockey also. In addition, Bob Ricci and Paul Salem arc available: to lcnd support to Smith's crew as they embark on what very well might he successful Notre Dame careers. 
The Irish Extra-Notre Dame Hockey Thursday, October 29, 1981 -page 10­
1981-82 NOTRE DAME HOCKEY STATISTICS 4 Games -3-0-1 overall, 1-0-1 CCHA 

Depth Chart 
PI..AYER-POS GP G A TP P-M PP SHGW 
Bill Rothstein 
Dave Poulin 
JeffPerry 5-9, I 70, Sr. 5-1I, I 75, Sr. 5-9, I85, Sr. Grand Rapids, Minn. Mississauga, Ont. Sudbury, Ont. 
JohnDeasey K.irtBjork JeffLogan 6-0, 175, Fr. 5-9, 170,Jr. 5-I 0, I 75, Sr. Edina, Minn. Trenton, Mich. Grosse Pte. Shores, Mich. 
Brent Chapman Adam Parsons John Higgins 5-9, 175, Fr. 6-I, I80, So. 5-IO, 175,Jr. Agincourt, Ont. To:-onto, ·ont. Toronto, Ont. 
Dave Lucia Mark Doman Tim Reilly 5·10, 175,Jr. 5-8, I65,Jr. 5-1 0, 180, Fr. Madison, Wis. St. Cloud, Minn. Melrose, Mass. 
Jim Brown Sean Regan 6-4, 205, Sr. 5-11, I85, Fr. Phoenix, Ariz. North St. Paul, Minn. 
Joe Bowie John Schmidt 5-9, 175, So. 


6-0, 200, Sr. Toronto, Ont. 
St. Cloud, Minn. 


Tony Bonadio Steve Ely 5·9, I 70, So. 
6-2, 205; Fr. Port Huron, Mich. Woodbridge, Ont. or John Keating 5-IO, I65,Jr. Fitchburg, Mass. 
Dave Laurion 5-7, 165,Sr. International Falls, Minn. 
B1Jb McNamara 5-10, 155,Jr. Toronto, Ont. 

f t 
~ 

more. (Photo byjohn Macor), Dave Laurion displays the standup style that be feels will improve his game even 


Right wing jeff Perry eyes the opposing team-leading scoring totals. (Photo by goalie and another chance to add to his johnMacor) 


Perry-RW  4  6  3  9  5-10  2  0  1  
Bjork-C  4  4  3  7  3-6  2  0  0  
Rothstein-LW  4  2  5  7  3-6  1  1  0  
Logan-RW  4  4  2  6  2-4  4  0  0  
Bellomy-C  4  1  4  5  1-2  1  0  0  
Poulin-C  4  0  5  5  3-6  0  0  0  
Schmidt-0  4  4  5  1-2  0  0  
Brown-0  3  1  3  4  5-21  0  1  
Regan-0  4  2  3  0-0  0  0  
Bowie-0  4  1  2  1-2  0  1  0  
Chapman-LW  4  2  0  2  2-4  0  0  0  
Higgins-LW  4  1  2  2-4  0  0  0  
Bonadio-D  4  0  1  3-6  0  0  0  
Oeasey-LW  4  0  1  1-2  0  0  0  
Ooman-.RW  4  0  0-0  0  0  0  
Parsons-C  4  1  0  0-0  0  0  0  
Reilly-LW  4  0  1  1  0-0  0  0  0  
Ely-0  3  0  0  0  3-6  0  0  0  
Cox-0  0  0  0  1-2  0  0  0  
Ricci-O  1  0  0  0  1-2  0  0  0  
Laurion-G  4  0  0  0  0-0  0  0  0  
McNamara-G  0  0  0  0-0  0  0  0  
NO Bench  1-2  
Notre Dame  4  26  36  62  38-87  12  2  3  
Opponents  4  13  19  32  48-110  2  2  0  
Power Play Goals  Not re D ame 12­ of-29  ( .414)  
O ppon ents 2-of-23  (.087)  
Scoring by periods  1  2 3  OT  T  

NotreDame 7 9 10 0 26 Opponents 7 
3 3 0 13 

Goaltenders' Statistics Name MIN REC GA AVG SVS PCTSO Laurion 210 3-0-1 13 3.71 82 .863 0 McNamara 40 0-0-0 0 0.00 16 1.000 0 
Notre Dame 250 3-0-1 13 3.12 98 .883 1 Opponents 249 0-3-1 26 6.27 152 .854 0 
1981-82 Results (3-0-1)

Injury Report John Cox (D) -Out 4-6 weeks, disloca­
def. YORK, 8-4 ted shoulder. 
def. YORK, 7-0 

Rex Bellomy (C)-Out indefinitely, 
def. Ohio St., 7-5 

injured thumb. tied Ohio St., 4-4 
CENTRAL COLLEGIATE HOCKEY ASSOCIATION North 

W L TGFGA Pet Michigan St. 2 0 0 7 5 1.000 
N. Michigan 2 0 0 12 9 1.000 
W. Michigan 1 1 0 6 5 .500 Ferris State 0 2 0 9 12 .000 Lake Superior 0 2 0 5 7 .000 Michigan Tech 0 2 0 2 6 .000 
South Michigan 

2 0 0 6 2 1.000 Notre Dame 1 0 1 11 9 .750 Miami 
1 0 5 6 .500 Ohio State 
0 1 1 9 11 .250 Bowling Green 0 0 0 0 0 .000 x-Ill.-CC 
0 0 0 0 0 .000 
Co-captain]eff Logan 
x-not eligible for league title Tomorrow's Games Northern Michigan at Notre Dame, 8 p.m. Lake Superior at Ferris State Michigan State at Bowling Green Michigan Tech at Western Michigan Windsor at Ohio State Illinois-Chicago Circle at Miami Toronto at Michigan Saturday's Games 
Northern Michigan at Notre Dame, 8 p.m. Lake Superior at Ferris State 
Bowling Green at Michigan State Michigan Tech at Western Michigan Windsor at Ohio State Illinois-Chicago Circle at Miami Toronto at Michigan 

Co-captain Dave Poulin 



Thursday, October 29, I98I -page II 
lh /be rJIJSel"l'<'l' and I he .·lssucialet! Press 
Three lawyerS from New York City will be panelists for a Sports and Entertainment Law Forum to be held at Notre Dame's Center for Continuing Education next Friday (Nov. 6) The morning session will run from I 0 a.m. to 12 noon. and the afternoon session will begin at 2 p.m. and conclude at 4 p.m. The three panelists will be Seymour Pl·yser, Richard Zahnd and Sidney Bluming, all ofwhom arc specialists in this expanding field of law. Peyser has served as Vice­President ·of and General Counsel to United Artists Corporation. Zahnd is General Counsel to Madison Square Garden Corporation, the pan·nt company that owns and operates the New York Knicks and Rangers. Bluming once represented the New York Yankees. 
The Obsen.1er 
"Student Appreciation Night" is scheduled 
for this Friday as the Notre Dame hockey team plays its first ever home game in the CCHA. The first I,OOO students presenting Notre Dame or Saint Mary's ID cards will be admitted FREE! The game will be the first of a two game series with two-time defending champion Northern Michigan. and begins at 8 p.m. Gates open at 7 p.m.-The Obseroer 
The Notre Dame women's volleyball 
team went down to the wire in beating Goshen last night in the ACC. The Irish won the first two games by identical I5-I 1 scores, but dropped the next two. I3-I5. In the final game, Notre Dame downed Goshen I 5-H, hiking the Irish season record to I3-18. The next game for Notre Dame comes up net Tuesday, when the team will face Purdue-Calumet in the ACC pit. -The Obsen1er 
The Off-Campus hockey team is organizing. In­terested OC men should sign up at the NVA office ( C-2 ACC) or call 61 00. -The Observer 
An organizational meetingwill be held for the 
Notre Dame rugby club tonight at 7:30 in the LaFortune ballroom. All members must attend. -The Obseroer 
The Notre Dame soccer team, rolled over Valparaiso last night, 10-0. Gerard McCarthy and Dan Coughlin earned the shutout for the Irish, who are now 14-3-3 on the season. Notre Dame outshot the Crusaders 43-4, and got two goals apiece from sophomore Ken Harkenrider and freshman David Miles. The next game for the Irish comes up this Sunday at 2 p.m. on Cartier Field, when Notre Dame plays host to Wright State. -The Obsen.1er 
The Observer-Landon Turner Fundwill 
benefit from a dinner and talk by Indiana basketball coach Bobby Knight. Turner, the Hoosier's star forward, was left paralyzed by an auto accident in July. Tickets for the dinner, which is to be held at the Century Center, are $50. The talk is scheduled for the Morris Civic Auditorium on the same night, Monday, November 9. Admis­sion is 10 dollars for adults and five dollars for students. Tickets are available at The Observer offices on the third floor of LaFortune. Donations for the fund are always welcome. Make checks payable to The Observer-Landon Turner Fund, P.O.Box Q. Notre Dame, Ind. 46556-The Observer 
Notre Dame's scuba diving clubwill hold a meeting for all those interested at 8:00 tonight in the LaFortune Little Theater. -The Obseroer 
The Saint Mary's volleyball team dropped two 
consecutive games, and the match at Purdue-Calumet last night. The Belles were downed 7-15 and 13-I5. The loss drops St. Mary's to 10-9 on the season. They will next sec action in this week's Manches­ter Tournament -The Observer 
Referees are needed for interhall basketball. In­terested men and women should contact the NVA office ( C-2 ACC) at 6100 -The Obseroer · 

FOOTBALLtMfl'l~=~
~::~:···~ ..J:. 
NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE NATIONAL CONFERENCE Eeat 
w L T Pet. PF PA Philadelphia 7 1 0 .875 183 112 Dallas 6 2 0 .750 197 167 
N.Y G1an1s 5 3 0 .625 164 121 Sl. LOUIS 3 5 0 .375 158 209 Wash•nglon 2 6 0 .250 135 191 
Central Minnesota 5 3 0 .625 188 199 Tampa Bay 4 4 0 .500 143 128 
Delroil 4 4 0 .500 197 170 Green Bay 2 6 0 .250 136 184 Chicago 2 6 0 250 
126 198 
West San Franc1sco 6 2 0 .750 191 140 Allan! a 4 
4 0 500 222 162 Los Angeles 4 4 0 500 14 180 New Orleans 2 6 0 .250 98 163 
AMERICAN CONFERENCE East w L T Pet. PF PA 

• M1am1 5 2 1 688 186 152 Buffalo 5 3 0 .625 181 128 
N.Y. Jels 3 4 1 .438 165 202 New England 2 6 0 .250 190 183 Ballimore 7 0 .125 148 271 Centrei C1nc1nnat1 5 3 0 .625 194 155 Pittsburgh 5 3 0 .625 164 158 Houston 4 4 0 500 138 163 Cleveland 4 0 .500 150 172 
Weet Kansas City 6 2 0 .750 207 163 San D•ego 5 3 0 625 253 187 .. ­Denver 5 3 0 .625 154 112 
Oakland 3 5 0 .375 98 133 Seattle 2 6 0 250 104 171 
Sundey'a Gemea Allanta at New Orleans Balt1more at M1am1 Chicago al Tampa Bay Cleveland at Buffalo 
See BOARD, page 14 

The Observer will accept classifieds Mon­day through Friday, 10 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. However, classifieds to appear in the next issue must be received by 3 p.m. the business day pnor to insertion. All classifieds must be prepaid, 
either in person or through the r1ail. 




Classifieds 

-.-.-.. -...-...~ LOST. COUCHES $30 and up, CHAIRS $5 and if you have some ga lech l•ckels 10 sell . Need 2 or 4 GA II> !or Navy Call41·4436 Egyp11an grad mel bus 10/9 a1m . keepA Gold walch, Bucherer," around up Call Mrs. Cooper al 272-3004 after 12 sell them lo me call
NOTICES 
you 1n U S. Deb 255-5803. 

Madeleva Monday Oct. 26. II has GREAT noon Free delivery to dorm. senllmenlal value. lllound, PLEASE call Need 1wo Navy GA 11cke1s. Call Paul al
USED BOOK SHOP HOURS WED .. 
MILES LIVES AT THE ZAHM COF­
Kalie a15416 277-0692
SAT. SUN 9·7 CASPERSON, 1303 FEEHOUSE, TONIGHT 9:30 BUCHANAN RD . NILES. 
I'LL TRADE 2 NAVY G.A.s FOR 2 GEOR· ATTENTION ALL ELIGIBLE GUYS: 
LOST. One p1g. goes by name ol Arnold, 
DON T MAKE A RIGHT 
GIA TECH G A.s. I ALSO NEED TWO USED & OUT·PRINT BOOKS boughl. Zalde Avlle'a blrthdey Ia today. Free
approx1ma1ely lour 1nches in height. Las! 
MORE G. TECH G.A.s! sold, searched ERASMUS BOOKS klaaea ere evellable (by appointment
seen 338 Howard. II seen. !ell him lo Two wrongs ~ 
DAVE 1809

come home or bnng h1m to 338 Howard DON'T MAKE A RIGHT 
Tues·Sunday, 12-6 1027 E. Wayne (One only) to enyone who wlahea Zelda a block soulh ol Eddy· Jefferson •nlersec­Penn Sl. 11ckel wanled please call Donna heppy birthday. So call Zelda el 6717 LOST: hght brown vinyl Lev(s wallel w11h UNITED WAY 
FOR SALE 1 PR NAVY STUD TIX CALL llon) end gel your nema on that llall Don't
al6771 
B4 8 PM 277 6187 

10. money. and olher items of personal UNITED WAY 
delay. she's 20 today, and while the 

OVERSEAS JOBS Summer/year importance. II found. please call 3375. Need 2 GA. TECH G.A.·s. Will lrade 2 UNITED WAY roommate's sway-ZAIDA WILL PLAY/!1TWO NOTRE DAME ALUMNI ARE 
round Europe, S.Amer , Auslraha, Asld. REWARD NAVYG.A. ·sorpayCASH. ALEX--x6931 GIVE YOUR FAIR SHARE 
TRYING TO REUNITE THEIR FAMILY 
NOV 1·8 FOUND: A Texas Instruments Tl-35 Cal·Alll•elds. $500-$1200 monthly S1ghlsee· AT THE PARENTS' DAY NAVY GAME 
•ng Free 1nlo Wnle IJC. Box 52·1N-4. BIG BUCKSIIII need lwo GA's lor NAVY Z. To a super roommate and fr1end Have
WE NEED MANY TICKETS!! CALL Corona Del Mar. CA 92625 and/or GA TECH. PLEASE HELP!!! a ternhc 20th birthday! Your room1e
culalor. CALL 3807. UNITED WAY 
JOHN (1697) 

CALL FRANK 8820. GIVE YOUR FAIR SHARE TYPING--Only $.65 a page Call Dan. OF $2 00 OR MORE !IIATTENTION SPIKE II!
Need Navy G.A. and sludenl 11x. Call 272·5549, belore 9 PM BLOOD AND GORE! Ill don'! gel 2 GA's Good luck lon•ghll Don'! be so nervous
SEE YOUR SECTION LEADER 
2197.
lor any home game. Will pay big bread. 
I'd hale to hear aboul an acc•dent


FOR RENT
AMERICAN-LEBANESE CLUB Especially need USC. KEVIN 8214 COLUMBUS. OHIO is where I am headed 
Please ask il you need a hug lrom httle MEETING HAS BEEN MOVED TO THUR on Oclober 30 II you wanl to see lheWill pay HIGH SCHOOL DOLLARS for 2 
Pumpernickel 10/29/81 AT 730 USUAL LOCATION A need several GA or sludenl tix lor Navy Buckeyes or IUS! VISII lhe bars on H1gh lly MOVIE WILL BE SHOWN BRING DUES Furnished House .. N1ce area .Walk to Call Mary 41-4972 slreet 1ha1 weekend call MONICA a1 4t· 
ND.. J1m 3234 Navy GA's Call John 3527 
Dead grandparenls need 2 navy GA·s PLEASE Quenda Nance K. J..
5802. I have room lor lhree nders and I'll 
Call John 232-0921 

NAVY NAVY NAVY G.A.'S NEEDED be returmng lo South Bend around 10 Por hn el gran d1a de lu 21 s1 cumpleanosFurnished House.. N1ce area... Walk to
ATTENTION ALL BUFFALO CLUB WILLING TO PAY TOP DOLLAR. p.m. November 1 ha llegudo. S1 pasamos el d1a runtos. le
NEED NAVY GA TIX $$ CALL MARK MEMBERS PLEASE CALL 234-0418. 8833 seguro que eslara lleno de muchas Navy Pregame Parly Farley Hall base· Hop1ng your comfort quo11en1 is h1gh memonas fehces Vamos a estar JUntos! menl. BEEF on WECK Will be served All ROOMMATE WANTED to share a COM· Are you from Jersey? I'm from Jersey and S1empre pensando de 11. 
ND..J1m 3234 FOR SALE: Four (4) GAs lor Navy and 
sludenls, allumni, lam11y and lnends are PLETEL Y lurn1shed apt. close lo NO ON­I need 2 Navy GA's. Willing lo pay$$. Call Today 1s Ron (Call me old man) Rose's SKY
Georgia Tech. Besl offer. Also will trade
LY $105 I month plus elec · call Dave at 283-1169 after 11 p.m. 
welcome. Ka1e4419. birthday. Have a happy one 
two (2) Navy GA·s lor two (2) Navy Stu· dent lickets and $. Call JB al 8446 after 
Crash. Danny. Jerry, Dumbo. and lhe ZAHM COFFEEHOUSE I Ill ZAHM COF­DESPERATE FOR 2 OR 4 NAVY GA 3PM. QUOTE OF THE WEEK: "WHO SLEPT Big 0" Caveman says hello !rom FEMALE ROOMMATE Ia
FEEHOUSEIll! ZAHM COF­WANTED TICKETS. CALL MIKE AT 1435. ON TOP?" MeXIco. I'll be sure ro send you somelh~ng FEEHOUSEIIII STOP IN FOR THE from Acapulco lh•s February 
share smell, furnished home with NEED GA TIX FOR NAVY CALL 234­
FINEST IN FOOO, DRINK, UVE ENTER­aeme. Ten minutes from NO. $130 per Need 2 GAs lor Navy call Bnan 288-3108 Winmng No 38103r.Call UBC·i~ cl~•m 2 month Includes ell utilities. Call 289-GaTech t1ckels. 
7336 RICH 

TAINMENT AND COMPANY. EVERY Mommy·, Aunt Kath•e". Steve Knees THURSDAY NIGHT ... ZAHM BASE­Tickets for Sale 2 student navy and 2 stu· and lhe rest ollhe yells" Gree11ngs lrom
9117 eller 12:30 p.m. I NEED GA'S FOR NAVY. GEORGIA MENT. TONIGHT FEATURING LIVE dent ga. Tech. Besl Offer 272 6454 Mex1co from lhe Jolly Green Giani. Spe·
SHOW SOMEONE YOU CARE WITH A JAZZ WITH THE QUINTET. DOORS MALE ROOMMATE NEEDED FOR FUR­MONTH OF FLOWERS. A BOUQUET
TECH, PENN ST. PETE 233-8091. 
c1al hello to the Pnncess Praskov1a NISHED APARTMENT. $110/MONTH

OPEN AT 9:00 MUSIC FROM 9:30. I need 2 Georg•a Tech GA's lor my OF FRESH FLOWERS DELIVERED 
HELP!!!I'LL DEFINITELY KILL MYSELF
UTILITIES PAID. 287·5469 parenls Please call Ann al 8038!! EVERY WEEK FOR 4 WEEKS. VASE IN· 
Que onda J1m y R1co? S1guen de culeros? CLUDED IN FIRST DELIVERY WED·IF I DON'T GET SEVERAL GEORGIA 
Pues ya saben se lo Iavan The Force ol NEED 3 GA's lor GEORGIA TECH ...very NESDAYS FLOWERS289·1211. 
TECH GA'S!!IIIPLEASE SAVE MY LIFE-­Rock be w1th you all M. Oca y Mazallan 
-CALL 1009 

desperalell call Larry 1809 01lees. SINGING CHARLIE TELEGRAMS needs 
Need 2 GA Navy lix,Call Jim.289·5311 I need 2 Navy GA tickets. Call232·9652. expenenced s•ngers. Call belween 9·3 at Hey! Carolyn. Marlha. Sheila. Ellen, Col· 234·0959 
leen, Margarel. Kelly. Renee. LIZ, Sanda.

DESPERATE! DESPERATE!
LETS TALK TICKETSII!need 3 Navy GA Anme. Paula. Teresa and Teresa DESPERATE! NAVY GA'S PLEASEWANTED: GA's FOR ANY HOME

LICENSE. IT'S A BOOKLET WITH FIVE t•ckels:call M1ke al 1130 EXPERIENCED TYPIST WILL DO 
CALLCAROL41-5108

GAMES, CALL PAUL 8509 TYPING. CALL 287-5162. 
DIFFERENT LANGUAGES, MY Rob G. 1n Moreau. I still have I he ashes in 
PICTURE AND MY NAME VISOOT DESPERATELY NEED 4 NAVY GAs a vase. You favontelrishman now hv1ng 1n
Who wanls to watch lhe lnsh lose aga1n
PHONGSATHORN IF YOU FIND IT. TYPING WANTED. Fasl. Accurale, Close AND 5 NAVY STUDENT TIX PLEASE A DRUMMER IS DESPERATELY Mex1co C1ty.
anyway? Please lei me lake those un·and Reasonable 272·41 05 or 272-4272. 
CALL 1596 OR 1649 NEEDED TO PLAY AT THEPLEASE CALL 289-2119 wanled NAVY GA'S off your hands. Call CHRISTMAN NAZZ. CALL DAN 8332 H1Knsl
CAROLa141·5108

IN DESPERATE NEED OF RIDE TO
LOST CANON AE·I CAMERA DURING WE NEED Navy G.A. ·s I IIIII Call M•ke at Happy Birthday! 
CLEVELAND THIS WEEKEND (0CT31 ). HALLOWEEN DANCE AT LOGAN CEN· 
USC WEEKEND IF FOUND. PLEASE 1175orChrisa11178. Love, Marc 
HELP! My O.K.-Iook•ng s1s1er is leav1ng
NEED TO WATCH A REAL FOOTBALL TERIII!
CALL2968 REWARDII lhe wastelands ol lnd1ana for good in
GAMEl IF CAN HELP. CALL MIKE 68291 Salurday, Ocl. 31 7:30-10 p.m. LIVE
FOR SALE TWO NAVY G.A. 'S. CALL V•vian(lrom Lew1s):December. and wanls to see an N.D. 

BAND! DRESS UP! EVERYONE'S
LOST before break Brown Tweed Cap; 3340. I'm sorry lor lhe confusion, bull never gol
game before she relurns East I need only Palch on the •ns1de w1th Donegal her las! name. Maybe we can gellogelher
I DESPERATELY NEED 1 NAVY G.A INVITED. 
one Georgia Tech sludent llcket..
CALL DAN AT 8886
Tweed" on 11. Please call Kev1n at3737. DONT SELL YOUR GEORGIA TECH and stra•ghlen lhings oui ... JI 
pleease? Call Tim at 1536. 

TUTOR NEEDED; For H.S. Jun1or 1n I need a ride to Md./D.C. area al Chemistry, 2·3x/wk. Con1ac1 Volunleer TICKETIII Donate ilto send a Logan child 
whoever found a calculator and EPHYS to lhe game. T1ckels will be collected in STUD ATHLETICS 
DESPERATELY NEED 3 NAVY TIX
Thanksg•v~ng; Share usuai.PLEASE call Serv1ces. 7308.1.5 LaForlune. 
book (slreelman) 1n room 212 cushing lhe dining halls dunng dinner nexl week. Stsnlord-LeMsns Tennis Tourney 
STUDENT OR GAl CALL DAVE AT 1128Andy a11247. 
PLEASE call m1ke al 8598. subslanllal Ssmi-Finsls
ANYTIME 

SORRY ND/SMC WOMEN Joe Caputo 
rewardlllll I NEED 2 GA NAVY TICKETS. CALL Kalan Tantis~ra-E1Ieen O'Bnen 
True s1ones about child or leenage gol engaged over break However. Tom
LEADA, 277-6489. vs. heroiCS wanled lor special report. Call Lucky" Bednar IS still look1ng lor
FOR SALE: 2 GA NAVY AND MIAMI 
To Ihe person who acc1den1ally mistook Steve Nickmsh-Ann Welsh Kalhy or Healher al 7850 or 7848. someone who needs help 1n comple11ng
TICKETS. CALL KAREN AT 4·1-5127 
my wallellor h1s in Ihe men·slockeroom ol Need 1 pa1r of Georg•a Tech G. A.'s. Call Mark Moeller· Rosy Whalen 
lhe1r MRS. degree. II you are in1eres1ed.
Ihe Rockne Memonal.l would be elernally Paul at 232-9150 between 5:30 and 7:30 vs
WANTED PENN STATE TICKETS. 
g1ve Tom a call al 8309. P.S. CON­
gralelul II you would relurn lt. I kn»w thai p.m. Terry Hildner·Mary Berg 
CALL PAT 11892 
GRATULATIONSJOE!

the extra money IS very useful Wt please undersland that I will nol have another WAIT!IIIII NEED TWO GEORGIA TECH Mini-Bookstore FlnBl Four 
Need 3 slud. 11x lor httle brother and

FOR SALE 
SENIOR HAPPY HOUUR loday al Tip·
dollar till Chnslmas break. II you can'! find TICKETS. WILL PAY TOP DOLLAR. Multiple o·s
friends. Call Dan 1612 

pecanoe 4-7 load bar and relreshmenl
11 in your heart lo relurn lhe money, I CALL BILL 7289. F1nger & the Four Plays 
specials Don't m1ss i1111

would apprec1a1e 11 11 you would return my Nebo's 111/2 
I need 1 GA 11cke1to G.Tech. Please call DISCOUNT STEREO EQUIPMENT--Top 
1.0 so at leas! I'll be able 10 eal·---· Thank OH NO. My supply of STROH'S will be Shootlo Thrill
Jimal8046.

quallly, most m8jor brands. The best SENIORS: Applications lor SENIOR
vou. x1160 slopped 1f I don'lllnd 2 Navy GA'S. CALL 
values around. Call Mike x 1087 WEEK CHAIRMAN and SENOR FEL· Quanl•ty of money found on Soulh Quad LOW CHAIRMAN are now available 1n lhe 
LORI5168 Help!!ll I need three (3) G.A.'s lor lhe
HELP!!I!I DESPERATELY NEED 3 G.A. 
Georg1a Tech game. II you can help. call on Monday mghi.Call 8810,ask lor 2 studenlllx, s1de by side, lor Navy & Ga. sludent activ1t1es office. All are en­TIX TO THE NAVY GAMEII PLEASE
will trade combined NAVY GA. TECH sl. Tree at6784. Joe.and •denl•ly. Tech. CALL 289-4180 couraged 10 apply.
CALL· JULIE 3829. 
TIX lor PENN ST TIX Phi1233·3411 



The Observer-Sports Thursday, October 29, 1981 -page 12 



~ k~"" ~ 
JEWELERS


FOX'S 
SINCE 1917 
DIRECT DIAMOND IMPORTERS 
University·· Park Mall and Town and Country­Mishawaka 
lScro Discount to all N.D.-S.M.C. Students 


Ticket sales begin Monday 
Notre Dame Students 

f>asketball ticket sales and dis­tribution for Notre Dame students will begin on Monday (Nov. 2). The student basketball season ticket will be split into two eight-game packages ofequal quality as follows: 
Package A Sat., Nov. .28 -St. Joseph's (Ind.) Mon., Dec. 7 -Murray State Sat.,Jan. 16-Davidson Sat., Jan. .23-Maryland Wed., Jan. 27-Maine Tues. Feb. .2 -San francisco Sat., Feb. 27 -DePaul Tues., Mar . .2 -Northern Iowa 
PackageB Fri., Nov. 20 -Yugosiavia Team Sat., Dec. '5 -UCLA Sat., Dec. 12 -Northern Illinois Tues., Jan. 19 -Villanova Mon.,Jan. .2; -Idaho Sat.. Jan. 30-Marquette Sat., Feb. 13 -N.C. State Tues., Feb. .23 -fordham 
Seniors and juniors only will have the opportunity to purchase Package A, Package B or both packages at the designated times listed below. Based upon the demand from the seniors and 
juniors, both packages or just one package will be offered to sopho­mores/lawIgraduate students. All sophomores/lawI graduate students will at least be guaranteed the op­portunity to purchase one eight­game season ticket. Freshmen will be offered the residual of the eight­game season tickets from above on a 
first-come, first-served basis. 
Strict adherence to the folowing schedule is mandatory, and there can be no exceptions: Seniors ­Monday (Nov. 2 );juniors -Tues­day (Nov. 3 ); Sopho­mores/Graduate/Law Students ­Wednesday (Nov. 4); Freshmen ­Thursday (Nov. 5 ). The ticket win­dows will be open from 8 a.m. until "i 
p.m. through the lunch hour. 
Crowd-control gates and student security personnel will be utilized for the ticket issue. Please stand in single lines as indicated by the crowd-control gates. Gate 2 will be open at 7:30a.m. daily. 
Astudent ID and payment must be presented at the ticket windows on the second floor of the ACC. The prices of the alternatives are as fol­lows: Lower Arena -S24 for one package, S48 for both; Bleachers ­Sl8 for one package, $36 for both. Make checks payable to the Univer­sity of Notre Dame. 
All seats are assigned in the stu­dent section, but are NOT preassigned by the Ticket Oftke. If you wish to sit with a classmate, you must present your IDs and money together for adjacent seating. No student may present more than four IDs. 
Married students should report lO the ticket windows· with their respective class and on the scheduled day. When picking their tickets, they are asked to present evidence ofyour marital status. 
Saint Mary's Students 

All classes should pick up lottery forms at their residence hall's desk this week. Completed forms must be returned to the Saint Mary's Student Activities Office no later than friday (Oct. :'10' ). List of lottery winners will be posted in the residence halls and iii the dining hall on Monday (Nov. 3 ). Lottery winners then must bring a check for S18 to the Student Activities office no later than Friday (Nov. 6). -The Obsen,er 

THE CAREER-OPPORTUNITY 
COMPARISON TEST 
Can you be working as a civilian in the most state-of-the-art environment in the world? 

Will your professional responsibilities be challenging and career-building in an entry-level position? 
Will your initiative be encouraged and your capabilities visible?' 
Will you be offered a fine selection of accessible institutions where you can continue your education tuition free? 
Will the comprehensive training program you receive immediately accelerate your pay level? 
Can you be shown exactly how far your potential will take you in 5 years? 
Check Out These 

PERFECT SCORE CIVILIAN ENGINEERING OPPORTUNITIES AIR FORCE SYSTEMS COMMAND ACTIVITIES EJectrical Industrial Mechanical EJectronlc Aerospace Materials 
The Aeronautical Systems Division at Wright-Patterson Air Force Base has an assignment worthy of all the nights you've spent burning the midnight oil-the planning, research, development, testing and acquisition of all U.S. Air Force aeronautical weapon systems. Immediate civilian positions exist in turbine and ramjet engine technology, flight vehicle aerodynamics, structures, flight control and control design, materials research, navigation, communications, swveillance, recon­naissance and weapons de­livery. These areas offer unrivaled opportunity for innovation ...for setting precedents ...and for stretching your abilities. 
Our civilian team of pro­fessionals have found Dayton, Ohio, a super place to live. If you like to breathe the open air, it's all around. If city hustle suits your style, you can have it in Dayton. Everything from King's Island to his-toric Fort Me1gs is tucked into a short drive. And Cincinnati INith it's professional sports, culture and night life'is right next door. 
There's no red tape in coming on board. We can hire you vvithout Bureaucratic delay. The Aeronautical Systems Division has been mighty good at getting places fast. Let us tell you how we can do the same for your career. 
WE ARE INTERVIEWING ON CAMPUS 
OCTOBER 30 

IN THE PLACEMENT OFFICE. SIGN UP FOR AN APPOINTMENT OR CONTACT: Charles E. Witcherr Air Force Civilian Career Recruiting Counselor Aeronautical Systems Division 

WRIGHT-PATTERSON AIR FORCE BASE, OHIO 45433 



-

llliJ~SUA"f ~1()111 fll.. SI~IIS 
Thursday, October 29 
The Bride of Frankeneteln Universal 1935 (80 min.) Director James Whale sends up his earlier Frankenstein in this tongue-in-cheek gothic from a script by John L. Balder­son and William Hurlbut. Music by Franz Waxman; with Doris Karloff and Elsa Lanchester. 
JaJ() rrn ..IJSIIJ.. ()f A~l (§p()IIS()rt?cl ~' tilt? ctclrnlssl()ll t1.()() ~[) S..{ {()....IJ~I{All()~ ~ llliAI~f 
-·-----­


N.D. PARTY HEADQUARTERS 
2128 

PHONE AVENUE 277-3611 
Castillo Rum--white 1 Liter ................... .$5. 79 
Kamchatka Vodka 1 L. Iter. ................... $4.81 
Bois Peppermint Schnapps 1 litre $4.99 
Philadelphia Whiskey 1.75 litre $9.99 


PABST 
Case of quarts

BLUE RIBBON ......$8.49 


The Observer -Sports Thursday, October 29, 1981 -page 13 
A t-ale of t"W"O running backs 

George Rogers 
NEW ORLEANS (AI') -Rookie running hack Gt:orge Rogers, tht: tirst playt:r taken in tht: National Football Leagut· draft, has siknct:d those who felt tht· New Orleans Saints nn·dt:d a lint:hacker mort: than a hall carricr. Coach Bum Phil­lips said yesterday. 
"I don't know any linebacker who has gaint:d H'i9 yards rushing," Phil· lips quippt·d. 
Rogt·rs is second only to Tony Dorst.·tt of Dallas in total rushing yards midway through the NFL st:ason. 
But it was a rough start for the lldsman Trophy winner from tht· University ofSouth Carolina. 
lie cht:t.·knl into preseason camp at Vero Beach, Fla., and immediately ft.-It the prt.·ssurt·. tk failed to com­plete the 1-mile conditioning run re­quired of all players, tht:n almost immediatdy pulled a hamstring muscle and had to sit out a rookie scrimmagt.· ht·twet:n the Saints and the Miami Dolphins. 
lie avoitkd n·porters and seemed 
withdrawn as he moved about the 
training hll"ility. 
"I guess I had a lot of things going had for me:." ht: said yesterday. "One of them was, I wasn't in shape. 
"That kind of depressed me. I had tht· feeling I wasn't doing what was expt·ctt:d of me -and I wasn't. 
"The Saints had just had a coach­ing l'hange. Bum was new, and I didn't know about him. I tried to do a lot of things to impn·ss him." 
lit· had some personal problems, hut he didn't mention those as a reason for his shaky start. 
llis father. only rel-cntly released from jail alh:r serving time for mur­dt·r. was severely injurt·d in -~·ar wreck that claimed tht· two lives in tht· other vchidt· involved. 
Roger~ missed more practice to ht· at his father's bedside. I lis father n-covcrt·d and is hack in jail after that an:itknt. 
"As far as the situation I was in, I knew I couldn't hurt the team. They wt·re 1-l 'i last year," he said. "And with Bum tht·re, if I didn't do good, part of the blame would he because of him. 
"But I wanted to do good. wanted to start, hut how soon, didn't know." 
lie started the st·ason opt·ner again~t Atlanta, hut tht· Saints fell he­hind quickly, and Rogers carried on­ly l ~ times as New Orlean~ went to the passing game. Following the game. some Falcons said Rogers had ht•t·n intimidatt·d. 
I k denied that. hut said he: did get awfully mad. 
The m·xt wet·k was hb tirst regular·Sl'aMlll game in tht· Su­pndoml', hb tirst l00-yard ganH" in tilt" NFI. and thl' Saint~· llrst victory of l91-! l -a 2.'>-1 ~ up~t·t of Los An­
gde~. 1k'~ had four mort· too-yard ru~­hing dap ~inn· tlll'n, induding the la~t thrtT 


ony Dorsett 
I>Al.I.AS (AI') -A year ago Tony Durst·tt toot.. the blame. 
lit· ~aid it wa~ his lttmhk in tht· 'enmd hall that triggered tht· l'hiladdphia Eagles' 20-7 National Conft·n·nt'l' titk vil:tory owr tht· Dallas Cowboys. 
Dor~t·tttTturns to the scent' of his fatal fumbk Sunday when tht· Cow­boys collide with tht· Eagks again in Vt·tt·rans Stadium. 
Dalla~ Coach Tom Landry ·hly ha~ ddi:nded Dorsett, "One pt:rson doesn't lose a game. This is still a team Tony shouldn't hlanlC him-
Dorsett, who has ju~t ont' hig day tht· Eagles, is off to the: tin est start of his National Football League career. 
The former Hcisman Trophy win­ncr needs just I06 yards to become the tlrst NFL player to rush for 1,000 yards in each ofhis first five seasons. 
It also would be Dorsett's 1 1 th consecutive 1,000-yard season, counting four at the University of Pittsburgh and two at Hopewell High School in Aliquippa, Pa. 
He has had live I 00-yard games this year and is dosing on his 1978 team season rushing record of 1.~2'i yards. 
Dorsett, currently leading the NFL in rushing with H'i9 yards, had his biggest day as a pro against the 

montgomery® 
wrll conduct rntervrews on thrs campus MONDAY, NOVEMBER2. Career posrtions in vertical transportation MARKETING/ MANAGEMENT wrll be discussed with degree candidates rn BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION. For more information about Montgomery and our future visit to your campus, contact your placement office. 


montgomery10) 
ELEVATORS ESCALATORS POWER WALKS & RAMPS 
AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER 

Montgomery Elevator Company. Moline. IllinOIS 61265 Montgomery Elevator Co.. L1mited. Toronto. Ontario M9B3S5 Offices 1n pnnc1pal cit1es of North Amenca 
Labatt'sisfirstinCanada. Yourfirsttaste wiDtellyouwhy. 
''1, 


..._ 
LABATT IMPORTERS INC AMHERST. NEW YORK 
Eagles in his 1977 rookie season. 
He rushed for a club-record 206 yards, including a team-record 84­yard touchdown run. 
Since then he has gained just 308 yards, averaging only 3.7 yards per carry in the past seven games against the Eagles. 
He had only I 7 yards last October in Veterans Stadium and just 41 in the NFC title game. 
Dorsett said, "The Eagles arc al­ways a special challenge, particular­ly to me. I have some making up to do." 
He is the best shape of his career after a strcnous off-season program. Marriage has brought stability to his life. 

' 
I 
• 
..... 
-­

,I For further information Wrire: Father Andre Leveille. CSC Box 541 Notre Dame. tndoana 46556 


ANYTHING GROWS 
FLORIST -campus delivery House Plants Gifts, Corsages 272-8820 
N'. IROt~WOOD 


HOUSE PLANTS at 
TOLL ROAD DIRECTLY


GIFTS, TELEFLORIST 
EAST of CAMPUS 1 I 4rni. N. of Douglas


WIRE FLOWERS 
~---~---------------------­
I PRESENT THIS COUPON I I 25% discount on all house plants I and football corsages available 
I 
I 
I 

I NO-SMC 
I I ex. 10/81
·-------------------------­
1 
l 




_T_h_e_o__b_se_r_v_e_r___s_p_o_rt_s_.____________________________________________~T~h~u~rs~d=ay,October29, 1981 -page14 
• • • Montana 

continuedfrom page 16 last sported a winning record. But outstanding receivers for the 49ers . with Montana at the helm, that is Led by veterans Freddie Solomon 
back at Notre Dame to one of the 
sure to change this season. And the and Dwight Clark, the receiving best quarterbaks in the NFL. But the 
young, determined quarterback corps is big, fast, and dependable. story is still being written, and Mon­
shows no sign ofletting up. Beause of his talented receivers, tana realizes that there are still many 
"I haven't done much thinking Montana is afforded the luxury of obsta t des to overcome. 
about a failure period," he said. ''I'm several different targets. It gives grey "Playing quarterback on a pro 
not set up for that. I've always had hairs to defenses that cannot double team is a high-pre_ssure job," he ex­
the confidence that once given the up on a prime receiver, while allow­plains. "And playing quarterback on 
job, I could perform. And my con­ing only single coverage on a lesser a team like the 49ers is even tough­
fidence has been getting better each receiver. This fact was portrayed in er. We're a team that is just forming, 
week because experience gives you in the Dallas game, in whih the 49ers that hasn't learned yet what it's like 
confidence.." embarrassed America's team, 45-7. to win." The success Montana has attained On one play, the Cowboy's secon­It's been five years since the 49ers this season is due in large part to the dary doubled-up on Solomon, leaving Clark to single coverage. Montana took advantage ofthe situa­tion, throwing a 78-yard touchdown 
pass to the deceptively fast Clark. • • Another major factor in Montana's
• Dodgers 
success is the big 49er front line, He had waited an extra day for his 
which has allowed only 13 sacks in 
continuedfrom page 16 

eight games. When a quarterback of ''I'm finally just glad to get a a rainout on Tuesday night, giving Montana's ability is given the time to throw, he can't help but be success­
tina! appearance of I9H I because of 
him six days rest between starts. It had said earlier in the week. 
chance to end something,". Hooton 
may have had some effect, but not ful. The media blitz which has
enough for the Yankees' taste. resulted from Montana's auspicious 
The loser in Game 2 to John, 
Ironically, Hooton was the last efforts has not changed him. Despite 
Hooton worked 5 1-3 innings last 
Dodger to beat New York at Yankee being the best passer in the NFC, he
night, giving up a homer to. Ran­
Stadium, besting Cattlsh Hunter 6-1 does not dwell upon individualdolph in 'the third and a run in the 
sixth before leaving in favor ofSteve in the second game of the 1977 achievements. He is fully aware thatHowe. He yielded five hits and five Series. He pitched a complete game 
there are more important things.

walks, two intentionally, hut he held then but he didn't quite have the "My goal right now is simply to
the Yankees in check. steam on this late October night. help turn around this program. If I can help do that and make the playoffs. all the personal goals will come with it." If Montana continues to play the same high cil.iiber football, he may not only bring the 49ers to the playoffs; he just might lead them right into the Super Bowl. 
• • • Board

• 
cont.~edfrom page 11 
Houston at C1nC1nnat1 NY. Jets at N Y. G1ants San Franc1sco at P1ttsburQh Seattle at Green Bay Dallas at Ph1ladelph1a Detroit at Los Angeles Kansas City at San D1ego New England at Oakland St. LoUis at Washington 
Monday's Game Minnesota at Denver. n 




BASEBALL 
World Series Results Best of Seven Game One 
New York 5, Los Angeles 3 Game Two New York 3. Los Angeles o Game Three Los Angeles 5. New York 4 Game Four· Los Angeles 8. New York 7 Game Ftve Los Angeles 2. New York 1 Game S1x Los Angeles 9, New York 2 
Los Angeles wms World Senes 4·2. 

HOCKEY···­
NATIONAL HOCKEY LEAGUE Top 16 teams qualify tor playoff& w L T GF GA Pta Edmonton 8 4 0 60 46 
16 
15Montreal 6 0 3 59 21 
NY. Islanders 7 1 1 38 29 15 Ph1ladelph1a 7 1 1 38 2 15 Minnesota 6 2 2 43 26 
14 
Buffalo 5 2 3 35 33 13 Boston 5 2 2 37 33 
12 
Quebec 6 5 0 53 44 12 Los Angeles 5 5 0 52 51 10 Pittsburgh 4 6 2 39 52 10 Winmpeg 4 2 2 37 30 10 Chicago 2 3 4 43 46 8 DetrOit 3 4 2 26 37 
8 
8St. Louis 3 6 2 47 52 
Toronto 3 5 2 42 45 8 Vancouver 2 5 3 28 37 
7 
Calgary 2 6 2 33 42 6 
N.Y. Rangers 3 7 0 28 46 6 Hartford 1 4 3 28 34 5 Colorado 6 2 23 44 4 Washington B 0 29 44 2 
Yesterday's Results Edmonton 5. New York Rangers 3 Toronto 5. P1Hsburgh 3 Buffalo 6. St. LoUis 2 M1nnesota 6. Calgary 1 
Tonight's Games Montreal at Boston 

_... 
Calgary at Detroit New York Islanders at Hartford Pittsburgh at Philadelphia

©1981 Pabst Brewing Company, Milwaukee. Wisconsin and other cities. Washington at Los Angeles 
t 






Thursday, October 29, 1981-page IS 

Molarity 
.IT~ FIVE OtLOC.I'\ IN TH£
PART OF /HE" f/f,SP>VP6H P£AL 
MORNIIJq ;\ND :I'11 I-IERE" ~
INVOLVE'S''6!RODHINf=l" ArE.W f'O'T£"1JTIAL CANPI DAT£"5 /Cl 
5f, J"CJSEPH LAKE" ON Tl-it:: f.V£NTVA.LLY 5UC.Ci>EP HIM. 
CAMRJ? OF ~~DAM£" Relo~ 5LJPE~ WAT?DN 
WAtfiN6r lb HE:f.T Tlj£:" FIL E.P TI-ll~ REi PDR"r CfJ 71/E:" 
CAI.ll:>i J)oiT0::5 





Simon 

DO 'IOU :>EE 
TIIEM? 



The Daily Crossword 
Michael Molinelli 
TO PAY BE&,I/1)5 THE" 





Campus
OFF/c./AL 'TP;I\11\JINGp .,-DR FuTURE NOTRE PV-!E 
UNIVERSITY PRE51PENTj 

•9:30 
a.m. -noon -portfolio review, smc galleries, frt·e ofcharge. 

•9 
p.m. -noon -individual interviews, st. louis university law school, Iafortune. 

•1 
:00 p.m. -3 p.m. -portfolio review, smc galleries, free ofcharge. 

•1;30 
p.m. -3 p.m. -interviews, dickinson law school, Iafortune. 

• 
3 p.m. -seminar, "applications of radiation chemical methods to studies of bioenergetics and enzyme function", dr. duncan h. bell, nd radiation lab conf,..rence room.


Garry Trudeau 

•7, 9, 11 p.m. -film, "the graduate", engineering auditorium, S I. 

•7 p.m.-presentation, "the effective usc ofa mail 
RiGHT ONLY 


campaign in one's joh search", paul. reynolds, 123 
Olfftl<fNCC 15 

nicuwland science hall; sponsored by placement
Ht 6()T CAIX)HT ANO THAT I UJII<;JU5T 

bureau, all majors invited. 
•7:30 
p.m. -cila lecture, "world hunger and los ninos", paul weiss, tiajuana, mexico, memorial library auditorium, sponsored by cila, all an· welcome. 

•7:30 
p.m. -film, "the bride of frankenstcin", an­ncnberg auditorium, S I. 

•7:30 
p.m. -reading-lecture, "images of love", professor paul roche, memorial library lounge, spons<lred by general program ofliheral studies, all arc wch..omc. 

•7:30 
p.m. -meeting, american lebanese club, in­







©1981 by Chicago Tribune-N.Y. News Synd. Inc. All Rights Reserved 
YEAH, WHAT 
ARE tHEy
IPING? 
ACROSS 27 Choose 1 Humane org. 29 Pinnacle 5 Show 31 Greek 
approval letter 9 Masticate 32 OPEC word 13 Islands off 35 Dance 
Galway routines 14 Pointed 40 Vicinity 16 Byway 41 Raines and 17 Ponselle Fitzgerald 18 Rippled 43 Kind of 
pattern hammer 19 Movie 44 Exuberant terrier 46 Site of 
20 Large Angel Falls conducting 48 MacGraw pipes 50-Paulo 
22 Call up 51 Coquettish 24 Elusive 52 Collision fish aftermath 25 Not to be 57 Place in trusted order 

Wednesday's Solution 

10/29/81 

ternational student lounge, a movie about lebanon will he sbown.


Jeb Cashin 
•8 p.m. -piano festival, guest artist donna
00 YOU SfE 711fM! 

coleman, little theater, smc.
oo voo ~! 

•8 p.m. -hypnotist, tom dcluca, angela athletic facility. 


Television Tonight 
7:00p.m. 

59 Irritates 26 Site of 60 Overly in· car races 7:30p.m. gratialing 27 lridiscent 64 Zhivago's silica 
love 28 Incas' land 65 Lecterns 30 Of a skel· 67 Ash etal part 68 Vindicator 33 "Brother-" 8:00p.m.
of means 34 Rubber tree 69 Drop in 36 Ft. Worth 
sales inst. 70 Sound 37 Kind of 71 Entree college 8:30p.m.
72 Being 38 Cal. city 73 Children's (with 21D) 
9:00 p.'ll.

vehicle 39 Influence 42 Painting DOWN of a kind 1 Tony-, 45 Eastern puppeteer university 2 Malayan 47 Suit in 9:30p.m vessel the attic 3 Tape 49 Has diffi· cartridges culty with 10:00p.rn. 4 "What's sibilants in-?" 52 Eyed 5 Undergar· 53 Kurds, e.g. ment 54 Garnishes 
10:30 6 Lahr role 55 Hide 
ll:OOp.u.

7 Improper 56 Antelopes 8-diem with spiral 9 Hold horns 
10 Waste-maker 58 Roman and 11 Signon Chatterton 11:30p.m.
door 61 Games using 12 Fatigued· counters 15 Resign 62 Congo river 21 Part of 38D 63 Coconut, 12:00a.m.
23 Arrow for one 66 Bravo! 
12:30-.m. 

16 MASB 22 CBS News 28 Joker's Wild 34 The MacNeil/Lehrer Reporl 46 Miracle Revival Bour 16 South Bend to Bill Street: A NewsCentcr 16 Spedal 
22 Family Feud 
28 Til: Tac Dough 
34 Straight Talk 
46 w. V. Grant 16 The Wallon's 
22 Magnum P.l. 
28 Mork and Mindy 
34 Jazz: An American Classic 
46 Lester Sumrall Teaching 
28 Best of the West 
46 Palterns for Living 16 Ditrrent Strokes 22 Movie: "Blazing Saddles" 28 Barney Miller 34 Sneak Previews 46 Today with lester Sumrall 16 Gimme A Break 28 Taxi 34 The Woodwright's Shop 16 Hill Street Blues 22 20/20 34 Masterpiece Theater 46 jack Van Impe 46 Faith For Today 
16 NewsCenter 16 22 22 Eyewitness News 
28 Newswatch 28 34 The Dick Cavett Show 
46 Praise The Lord 16 Tonight Show 22 Quincy/The Saint 28 ABC News Nightline 34 Captioned ABC News 28 Vegas 16 Tomorrow Coast To Coast 

tonight shoot down the navy with a KAMIKAZEE at IJIBR!tO!I 31AJB KAMIKAZEE SPECIAL ALL NITE! 
saturday nite senior bar will hold a WILD & CRAZY COSTUME PARTY BE THERE! 






···············~············ 
: flit? ~()ZZ : 
e presents e e thursdQy open night 9:00 -?-e : frldQy, oct. 30 : e two fQvorltes e : Bob mQrovlch 9:00~10:30 : e mike Daly 10:30 -? e 
~

.•••••• •••••••••••••••.•••••. , 
... 
-


The New York Yankees faced dejection again last night. They lost their fourth straight game, 

Four straight 

Dodgers beat Yankees, take series 
NEW YORK (AP)-Pedro Guer­rero drove in five runs with a home run, a triple and a single as Los An­geles defeated the New York Yankees 9-2 in Game 6 last night, giving the never-say-die Dodgers their fifth World Series title. 
They  won  it  in  four  straight  
games,  dropping  the  first  two  in  
Yankee  Stadium  before  winning  

three at home and the final game in New York. 
The Dodgers jumped on reliever George Frazier for three runs in the fifth, then went on to score four more in the sixth, to put the game out of reach. 
After a season shortened and torn in half by baseball's first midseason strike, and following a playoff format that included unprecedented divisional showdowns, the Series produced its special memories. 
The most memorable may turn out to be the decision to pinch-hit for Yankee starter Tommy John in the New York fourth with the score tied 1-1. Yankee manager Bob Lemon decided to go with Frazier at that point. 
The series will also be remem­bered as the first in which three players shared the Most Valuable Player honors. Guerrero, Ron Cey and Steve Garvey were cited for their play, and received the award. 
By the end of the game, Yankee Stadium, which had held 56,5 13, was half-empty and nearly silent in shock. The Dodgers raced onto the ft.eld after the final out but quickly retreated as dozens of fans poured out ofthe stands. 
Cey, who was beaned in Game 5, drove in the go-ahead run in the fifth inning with a single and Guerrero pounded home two more with a triple to the wall in the deepest part of the stadium, about 430 feet from home plate. 
Cey left the game for a pinch hit­ter in the next inning, suffering from the effects of the beanball. He had been hit on the batting helmet above the left ear by a pitch from Yankees reliever Rich Gossage and sustained a slight concussion. 
Dave Lopes led off the fifth with a ground single between third baseman Graig Nettles, also playing despite an injury, and shortstop Lar­ry Milbourne. Bill Russell sacrificed Lopes to second and, one out later, Cey strode to the plate. 
"The Penguin" hit a bouncer up the middle that eluded second 
-
baseman Willie Randolph and the Dodgers led 2-I. A bloop single over the middle by Dusty Baker sent Cey to third and Guerrero hit the first pitch from reliever Frazier for his 
. two-run triple. The inning made a loser of Frazier for the third time in the Series, breaking a World Series mark for six and seven-game Series. Jon Matlack of the New York Mets in 1973 lost twice in a seven-game Series, and Dan Quisenberry of the Kansas City Royals lost a pair in 1980. The only pitcher ever to lose three games in one World.Series was Claude Williams of the Chicago White Sox in 1919, the year of the Black Sox scandal, but that was in eight games. The Dodgers ended all doubts that New York's tumultuous season was over in the four-run sixth, sen­ding 10 men to the plate. After striking out Yeager, reliever Ron Davis, who started the inning, walked Hooton and Lopes. But a seeing-eye single between Nettles and Milbourne sent Hooton home and chased Davis in favor of Rick Reuschel, who had started and lost Game 4 in Los Angeles. On Reus­chcl's 0-l pitch to Garvey, Lopes and Russell executed a double steal. Reuschel walked Garvey intention­ally to load the bases and Derrel Thomas came in to hit for Cey, who complained ofwooziness. Thomas hit a grounder to Nettles' right at third. As Nertlcs fielded the ball, he stumbled over the bag and Russell was out, but Nertles' throw to first was late, by a hair, as Lopes scored the second run ofthe inning. Baker then hit a sharp one-hopper to Nettles, who bobbled the ball for an error, and the bases were loaded for Guerrero. Guerrero hit Reus­chel's first pitch into left-center field, scoring Garvey and Thomas, and giving the Dodgers an 8-1 lead. Hooton had been the champion during all the Dodgers' adversity, and now he had his chance to finally end it. After the Dodgers fell behind Houston 0-2 in the National League West Division playoft; Hooton was called upon in Game 3. He beat Bob Knepper to keep the Dodgers going and they beat Houston two more times. Trailing Montreal 2-1 in games in the NL championship Series, Hooton was called upon again to pitch Game 4 in Montreal. He already had been victorious in Game I and he prevailed over Montreal's Bill Gul­

lickson in Game 4 as the Dodgers recovered again. 
Their third recovery came in the World Series, after losing the first two game!!. 
See DODGERS, page 14 

Thursday, October 29, 1981 -page 16 

San Francisco, 49'ers high on Montana 
By MIKE MONK 
Sports Writer 

He earned the title "Comeback Joe" during his illustrious playing career at Notre Dame, and rightfully so. Time and again, quarterback Joe 
Montana wrested victory away from would-be conquerors as he en­gineered some of the most memorable come-from-behind wins in the history ofcollege football. 
But since joining the San Fran­cisco 49ers in 1979, Montana's com­plimentary moniker has gone by the wayside somewhat. Not because he has lost the magical comeback touch that created so many lasting memories for Notre Dame fans, but because now when he glances up at the scoreboard in the fourth quarter, his 49ers are usually up on top. In fact, the once lowly 49ers have won six of their eight contests this season, good enough for first place in the Western Division of the NFC. The Philadelphia Eagles are the only 
team in the NFL with a better record. 
Much of the success of the 49er team can be attributed directly to the exemplary play of Montana. Through the first half of the season, 
he has completed 65 percent of his passes for almost 2,000 yards. Over the course of the last four games, Montana has hurled 99 conseutive passes without an interception, breaking the old 49er reord set by the great John Brodie. By virtue of these impressive statistics, he has earned a rating of 96.1, tops in the 



Catching up on club action 
BENGAL HOPEFULS -Twelve boxers took a hope­
ful step in the march toward March and the Bengal 
Bouts when they won their weight divisions Oct. 1 5 in 
the boxing club's "Novice Boxing Tournament." The 
victors and their weight classes are: Tony Bonacci, 134; 
Mike Schier!, 142; Chip Beatty, 145; John McGarrity, 
148; Kevin Bingec, I 50; Steve Cramer, I 55; Tom 
Luzinski, I 56; Greg DeVoursney, 160;Jeff Messer, 165; Jay Casalduc, 169; Bob Manfreda, 172; and Dave Con­don, 180. 
RECORD FOR ROWERS IN BOSTON -Highlighted by a record-setting performance by the women rowers, Notre Dame's annual fall trip to Boston for the "Head of Charles Regatta" on Oct. 1 7 was another success for the club. The women's time of 18:44.6 on the three-mile course was the best ever for a women's crew team from Notre Dame at the Boston meet, and the team took second place in a nine team field. The Irish squad con­sisted ofcoxswain Fran Verhalen, Karen Langhans, Jane Wagner, Maria Carbone Kellee Asch, Jean McGowan, Vreni Hommes, Rita Harrington and stroke Sharon DiNicola. 
Meanwhile, in the men's division "our places were not the best, but the times were very good," said Bob Bennett, club president. "We were very pleased with all our results considering how the competitive level at the meet has increased so greatly." 
The "Heavyweight Division" of the men posted the second fastest race in a decade of competition at the Charles by Notre Dame squads. The time of 16:45.7 was good for an 18th place finish out of31 teams. The boat's crew consisted ofcoxswainJohn Thompson, Rich Gur­rola, Mike Dugan, Greg Larkin, Pete Warinner, Kevin Mullane, Jim Feider, Dana (Stone) Drury and stroke Ed Dailey. 
The "Lightweight" men finished 27th out of40 teams 
with a "much better than in practice" time of 17:11.3. 
The crew included coxswain Terry Rogers, Rich Green, 
John Williamson, Tom McKenna, Dennis Carney, John 
Rudser, Mike Hawboldt, Scott Cunneen and stroke 
Mark Green. 

WOMEN'S SOCCER ON THE RISE -Under the 
directon of Phoebe Hoffman, wife of Notre Dame assis­
tant socccer coach for men, Hank Hoffman, the newly 
formed women's soccer club has posted a 6-1 record 
wl1ile competing in the seven-team "Michiana Soccer 
Association League." The lone defeat was against a two­
year varsity squad from Marquette in the Notre Dame 
women's first inter-collegiate game. The club has been 
victorius twice over Saint Mary's (also a member of the 
Michiana League), and defeated Soccer'T on Oct. 24 by 
a 4-l score. Currently, there are about 25 members on NFC and second only to Craig Mor­ton of Denver in the entire NFL. 
Since 49er Head Coach Bill Walsh took over in 1979, he has built the offense around the pass. His hard work and perserverance has finally paid off, with San Francisco now averaging close to four touchdowns each game. Combine this with a vast­ly improved defense (last season the 49er secondary allowed the most passing yards in the history of the NFL) and the result is one ofthe best teams in the league. But just like everyone else in the Bay Area, Walsh recognizes the man who deserves 1 
much ofthe credit. 

"Montana has been playing out­
standing football," he said. "He 
makes good decisions under 
pressure. And he's a fine athlete. I 
knew with four games left last 
season that he would be our man for 
the future." 

It was last season when Montana 
finally earned the opportunity to 





