• .Budget-page5
• 

VOL. XV NO. I 0'5 an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and saint mary's THlJRSDAY, MARCH '5, 1981 
Suit settlement
Author Kelly 
Frese receives tenure
reads for 
6yDANLEDUC her tenure after she was turned andJOHN M. HIGGINS do.wn by four committees, by the 
dean four times, and by the provost The proposed settlement of the li.mr times undermines the Commit­faculty class-action sex discrimina­tee." 

Lit Fest 
ByMARYAGNESCAREY 
tion suit against the University in­Another member of the depart­
StuffReporter 
cludes tenuring Delores Frese, ment confirm·.:d a report in The principal plaintiff in the suit, accord­Obsen1er yesterday that Ms. FreseRobert Kelly, author of 40 books ing to members of the English would be tenured "is acl·urate," butand currently a professor at Bard 
Department. refused to comment further.
College, spoke to a ncar-capacity University counsel, Timothycrowd In the Ubrary Auditorium last In addition, a fourth member of McDevitt refused to discuss thenight as the Sophomore Uterary Fes­the department's tenure committee case. "The University will com·tival continued into its fourth day. 
disclosed that he also plans to resign ment," he said, "but only at a poinl
Kelly read selections from his books Convections and Kill The Messenger as well as some ofhis cur­rent projects. Kelly began the reading with "A Canticle for John 
'The issue is the University's possible Baptistu in which the biblical figure 
settling out of court. What is upsetting
dances "his own dance after his 
beheading for the sake of solem­people is that they're not going through the nity." 
Kelly continued the reading with legal process andgetting a presumablyfair "Purity," "The Traveler," and other andjust verdict.,selections he had planned "to read to an audience that's heavily Cat­holic." "Easter" and an untitled piece dealing with the author's first Impressions of the Notre Dame 
from the board. 1 after Judge Sharp has ultimately ac-Grotto, along with "Orpheus," ded­Committee member Robert Lordi ceptcd and approved the agreementkatt·d to to "the shop steward ofour said yesterday that he will resign if we've reached with the plaintiffprofession." 
Ms. Frese is granted tenure as a class." 
Kelly also read "Postcards From result ofthe settlement. Lordi's statement brings to fourThe Underworld," which he "I don't like the way they(the Uni-the number ofcommittee members
described as "little narrative Richard Cordova takes part in an animal behavior experiment in 
vcrsity) handled it," he said. "Giving who have announced their resigna­snatches one might have said after Galvin Life Center. (photo by Linda Shanahan) tion contingent upon the outcomevisting the underworld" along with 
ofthe proposed settl~mcnt.
"The Exercycle," in which a girl dis­Members Walter Davis, Leslie covers a vehiclt• "an uncle rides his Martin, and James Robinson sub­six-pa<:ks away on." 
mitted letters of resignation fromKelly concluded his reading with 
SMC'sMcKee appeals decision 
the nine-member committee Tues­"a revelation." The selection, partial­day to University President Fr.
ly based on a translation of a Stefen Theodore lfcsburgh and other ad­George poem, describes the begin­By MARGIE BRASSIL two years credit for teachin~ at The que'stion of tenure is ministrators and faculty.
ning of the human race. Kelly, Suint Mary's Executive Editor othercolleges, giving him the full six reviewed by the Committee on Rank "I feel, and other people feel, thathowever, said that "most Bibles tell years of teaching ncccssa(y to be and Tenure and a recommendation there is no merit to the case," Lordi the story backwards," and explains A recent decision handed down considered for tenure. is made to President John Duggan. said. "I don't like being called unfairthat womt•n created and educated 
by the Saint Mary's College Board of "I was in a state ofdisbeliefwhen I Duggan then presents the recom­and unjust. That's what the Univer­men for their own purpose until Regents to deny tenure to Dr. Mic­heard I had been denied tenure," mendations to the Board of Regents sity giving her back to us Is saying."
they "fell" for thl'ir creations. 
hael McKee, chairman of the Col­said McKee. "Right now I'm very who make the final decision. The Davis refused to confirm that heAuthors Romulus Linney, Herbert lege's Sociology Department is in hopeful for the appeal. I think we reasons for receiving or being plans to resign. However, he didGold, Anthony Hecht and Margaret the process ofappeal. have a man in Jack Duggan who will denied tenure are kept confidential. commt·nt on tht· discontent within'Atwood wlll conclude the festival 
McKee has taught at Saint Mary's live up to the ideals .of social justice the committee.
According to McKee, the Collegewhich continut·s through Sunday. 
for only four years, but has received .that we all talk about." has always emphasized the impor­"The issues that tht· rt•signations tance of teaching over publishing arc rt•sponding to is not just Delores works to the professors. "Every getting tenun·d," he said. "The issue semester I have recieved high stu­is the llnivt·rsity's possible settling 
dent evaluations. These are of 
out of court. What is upsetting primary importance hy the dcfini· people is that they're not going
Gouletfills justice Chair 
through tht· legal pro<.:css and get­dent, at least according to ting a prt·sumably fair and just ver­everything we've been told." 
lion and hy direction of the Prcsi· 
dict." By JEFF CHOPPIN Brazil, in 1963. "I have al·ted in a<.:cordance with
McKee is the author ofa sociology StuffReporter A pioneer in the study of ethics of development, my own convktions in tht· matter,"
textbook, Social Problems, which Goulet began exploring this new interdisciplinary Martin said. "I submit my resigna­....
he uses in his course and has written A uniqut· professorship devoted to promoting realm in 1956. For 10 years, he served a series of ap­tion as of tht· date that the settlt··
about I 'i articles, which he believes scholarly al·tlvitks in support ofjustice was established prenticeships in France, Spain, Algeria, Lebanon, and mcnt ls signed."
should have fulfilled his require· at Notre Dame in 1<)79. Denis Goulet subsequently was Brazil, to become familiar with development and the ment for publishing. Robinson rdu!>t'd to l'omml·nt named the William and Dorothy O'Neill Professor in sociology of underdevelopment. He has lived among In response to McKee's denial of beyond <.:onfirming the submission Edu<.:ation for Justice. nomadic tribesmen in the Sahara, and worked as a fac­tenure, students gathered in LeMans ofhis resignation. "This endowed t·hair, the first of its kind anywhere, tory hand and laborer. Goulet has also served on lobhy last night to discuss what they The current suit is a combination underlines the t 'niversity's mission ofapplying the fruit development·planning teams assisting national govern­could do to help the appeal. Mary of two st•parate dass-action suits. ofresearch and other educational pursuits to mankind's ments, and studied social change planning in univer­Ryan, asenior, told the students that One was lllcd hy Josephine Ford and advancentl'nt throughout the world," University Presi­sities and research institutes. they should write letters to Duggan, Elisabeth Fiort·nza induding all dent fr. Tht·odore lksburgh said at the time. In 1966, he began a period of teaching, writing and voicing their concern and support of tenured female fa<.:ulty employed af· fr. He~burgh abo said ofGoulet,"We arc fortunate to research in the United States and Canada. In addition, he McKee. ter. llJ74; the other hy Ms. FrcSt· h;l\'t an alumnus with the extraordinary vision to sup­has continued to make field trips to research sites in less Ms. Ryan and three other students including all tenured and non­port a professorship spedfically devotl·d to relating the developed countries, including India, Sri Lanka, Guinea­talked to Duggan on Monday about tenured female faculty employed af· 
t lniversity's in· Bissau, Cape Verde, Senegal, and seven South American the tenure decision. "Dr.· Duggan ter ll)7H. The suits were nations. His publications include six books and some 90 admired the students concern about consolidated last spring when a trial articles and monographs. the situation hut said that the stu-date was set l(>r Nov. 22. That and a Goulet says that the University is sending out con­dents don't really enter into the subscqul'lll date were postponed flicting signals to the students. The two signals are decision of appeal. However he did because of the possibility ofa settle­
-------------· 
low of tht· "primacy of success and making it and the need for say that letters from students would ment. Ovt·rst·as Development Coundl. He received bac­Christian commitment to global justice, compassion be looked at and considered and not The suit charges that the Univer­hdor's and master's degrees in philosophy from Saint and spiritual values. He states that the sociological ignored,"said Ms. Ryan. sity has systematically discriminated Paul's College in Washington, D.C., a master's degree in reason for the conflictingsignals is that Notre Dame still Duggan said he could not com­against women in the areas of social planning from the Paris-based lnstitut de Rcc­is a "staging arena" for Roman Catholics to enter the ment upon the appeal because it was promotion, salary, departmental as­ht·rl·hc et de Fromation en Vue du Dcvelopemcnt in a matter therefore 1 signmcnts and other employment
personal and
See CHAIR, page 5
1<)60, and a doctorate from the University of,Sao Paulo, policies.
must be kept confidential. 
1 



News Brie.{_§ 
Thursctay,March5,t9st-page2 

c=.==~======~============================~ 
by The Observer and The Associated Prm 
The student basketball ticket distribution plan for the 1981-82 season will be revealed next week, according to new Notre Dame Ticket Manager Steve Orsini. Orsini and Athletic Director Gene Corrigan hold the final decision on the type ofticket allocation P_Ia~. used. Despite rumors to the contrary, Orsini stated that the pos­stb~tty ofa sophomore ticket lottery is "highly unlikely." The shortage of Uckets for the upcoming season results from the 500 additional freshmen scheduled to enroll at the University next fall. -The Ob­
server · 
Renowned blues guitaristB.B. King will perform Friday afternoon at the world'~ largest walled prison, state corrections officials said yesterday, King has offered to do two "blues at the big house" shows free for inmates of the State Prison ofSouthern Michi­gan at jackson, said James Pogats, administrative assistant to the war­den. The musician is currently performing at a suburban Detroit nightclub. About 3,000 of the overcrowded prison's 5,700 inmates will get an opportunity to hear King in the prison auditorium, Pogats said. He added that "it's been a long time" since anyone volunteered to 
do a show for the inmates. -AP. 
The recent withdrawal of proposed federal regula­tion requiring bilingual education programs for non-English speaking students "will have a negative effect, but it won't be a catastrophe," according to Prof. Ellen Bouchard Ryan, psycholinguist and chairman ofthe University's psychology department. What is more crucial than mandatihg such programs for specific minority groups, she asserts, is a commitment at the federal level to the importance of encouraging bilingual e~ucation for everyone. The problem with the federal programs, she explains, is that they have always been targeted for the "handicapped" ofthe country -the poverty-stricken minorities, "but it is time for a critical change of attitude, one which recognizes that the total monolingual population is handicapped." Ryan, who helped develop two of the first model bilingual education programs in the United States and has published extensively on bilingualism, is skepti­cal of a philosophy that excludes middle class Anglophones from becoming bilingual and restricts bilingual education programs to poor communities. "There isn't a notion here, as there is in Europe," 
she says, "that any. monolingual is a handicapped, deficient, uned­ucated person."-The Observer. 
How do you steala 240-pound meteorite? For one Uni­versity ofArizona student, it was apparently as easy as lifting it up and carrying it away. Officials of UA's Steward Observatory recently dis­closed the bizarre tale ofthe space rock's disappearance over 15 years ago. That disclosure came only aft,er the rock was recovered from the dirt floor of an outdoor shed 100 miles from Tucson. The meteorite, beleived to have been brought to Tucson by Stewart Observatory founder A.E. Douglass, was on public display from 1922 until it disap­peared in 1965. Because officials considered the theft a fraternity prank, no major investigation was launched for its recovery. Steward Astronomer Raymond E. White continued telling his classes about the rock, however, asking for any information about its whereabouts. His comments led to a student newspaper article and then to an anonymous tip from a man who knew the rock had been taken. The theft was apparently part ofa bet between two students. "One bet his buddy SlO that he couldn't carry the 240-pound rock 100 feet from the lobby ofthe observatory to the bed ofa pickup truck in the parking lot," says White. The buddy apparently did just that, but the other student drove off with the rock, without paying off the bet. The anonymous tipster eventually helped White and two others unearth the rock, where it was buried inside the dirt floor of a metal shed. Recovery of the rock, not prosecution of the thieves, was the main concern ofUA officials, says White. That recovery proved a little more difficult than the theft, however. Whereas one student carried it away, 
it took three men to put it back. -Collegiate Hedlines. 
Prof. Stephen M. Batill, assistant professor of aerospace and mechanical engineering, is this year's re~ipient of the Dow Outstanding Young Faculty Award ofthe Illinois-Indiana section · of the American Society for Engineering Education (ASEE). Dow Chemical U.S.A. will present Batill with a certificate and $200 cash award during the ASEE section's annual meeting at the University of Evansville, tomorrow. A three-time graduate of Notre Dame, Batill received his B.S. in 1969, M.S. in 1970, and Ph.D. in 1972, all in aerospace engineering. While a member ofthe faculty at the Air Force Academmy prior to joining the Notre Dame faculty in 1978, he developed and introduced a new course in aircraft structural design and wrote the textbook for the course. Batill was a distinguished military graduate ofthe Air Force ROTC in 1969 and received the Air Force Association Award for outstandinggraduate ofthat year. He also received the Air Force Commendation Medal with Cluster in 1975 and 1978. -The Observer. 
A huge warehouse burst into flames yesterday, causing a major fire in the industrial park near Terre Haute, fire olD> cials said. Although no injuries were reported in the three-alarm fire the two-block long, wood frame building was destroyed, authorities said. A fire truck was also consumed by the blaze, Fire Department officials said. The truck was driving into the area when a 36,000-volt wire dropped in front of it and the driver swerved to avoid the line. The truck became caught in adjacent railroad tracks and could not be removed. "It was in the area of the worst fire," said the fireman. "It burned right down to the rims." The truck was valued at 590,000. About 120 frrefighers were called, including those who were off-duty and members ofa volunteer department. The cause ofthe fire was not 
known. -AP 
Cloudy with a 30 percentchance ofsnow flurries today. Highs in the mid 30s. Partly cloudy and turning colder tonight. Lows in the teens. Partly sunny and mild tomorrow. Highs in the low to mid 30s. -AP. 

Greed causes crowding 
Overcrowding is on the verge of becoming the next Big Issue on campus, and students here seem unaware for t~e most part. The University has been sending us all the signals for several months now, so either student government hasn't been communicating to its con­stituents or people aren't interpretingwhat they read in The Observer. Either way, the situation is a result ofthe 
University's remarkable lust for increased income, and the side effects seem trivial to them. 
One of the more alarming side effects is reported today in the adjacent News Briefs: next year's sop-prove the boy/girl ratio, but that's about the only bright homores, the class of'84, may have to go through a lot-spot. Plans to increase dining space are non-existent, tery again for basketball tickets. That just stinks. This is even though lines are already impossibly long during the same class which made history this year by not even peak hours at North, where Pasquerilla residents will being guaranteed a ticket to half the games, the first eat. Expanding the hours beyond the present 4:30-6:30 time that ever happened. The reason for this, ofcourse, will not aid matters much. , is that there are a finite number ofseats in the ACC, but How can the University continue to do this? They are the University continues to increase the number ofstu-admitting more people than they have room for. dents who want those seats. Why? ·Increasing the undergrad populace is fine, but usually 


A more obvious example of the impending body certain accomodations accompany these increases. At crunch is the threat ofa_housing lottery, now becoming present, there are exactly 6,942 undergraduates en­~n annual eve~t, but thts game has only recently been rolled, an average of 1,735 admitted each year. The Ad­mvented. Agam, there are more people who want missions Office has argued in the past that more high rooms than there are rooms. This is partially due to the school students were accepting offers ofadmission than reciprocal effect of off-~~ can be normally expected ca~pus_crime, in which the ' but that clearly should no~ Umverstty refuses to part be a problem for more than with any of its precious en-, \.... -/ _ • • one year. dowment to protect stu-"to • ~ It is easy for us to sit back dents, so that they must · smugly and say, once we are return to the fold of Notre in here, "Stop letting so Dame's restrictive housing many people in." But the contracts. University prides itself in 
These contracts are a fine plannmg and preparing for example of the aforemen-the future, and anyone tioned lust, which some looking at this situation· might go so far as to call pragmatically can see that greed. They require that stu-Notre Dame has not done so dents pay S2.60 a week for here. The result will be an laundry service whether or apparent decline in the not they use it, and many quality of campus life, the don't. Many students are factor used so often to tired of having expensive entice students to attend Levis come back as form-school here. fitting Bermuda shorts, 
The University ofVirginia,
so they do their own. which stopped worrying about building its academic The contract also requires !itudents pay for 21 dining reputation· about the time Fr. Sorin was unhitching the hall meals per week, even though no one eats all three horses in South Bend, provides an instructive paradigm. meals seven days a week. And dining hall officials are There, only freshmen live in dorms -one automatical­always reminding students not to give away their ID ly moves off campus after that. Students must go cards because the sizes ofthe slop loads are based on a through an involved process before each game to get certain percentage of students missing each meal. Al­basketball tickets, and even then it's partly luck. Like ternate meal plans, with varying degrees of imprac­here, maintaining the "reputation" is all-important, and ticality, are available only to off-campus students. administrative energies are spent on more important It might be reasonable to expect that with two new things than the needs ofthe students. dorlnitories being built, the overcrowding -at least in 
terms ofhousing-might be eased a bit. Students living in basements, converted study rooms and glorified U.Va. does provide a great deal ofoff-campus housing broom closets m!ght finally be able to live in a real dorm though, and Charlottesville·is not a decaying, industrial 
room for $6,000 a year. 'More social space would be city racked by unemployment. If the University does created as non-rooms were abandoned, and perhaps indeed lottery some students offcampus, it would then, even some experimentation with co-ed living (God for­fmally, have to accept some respon5ibility for the well­bid) could be tried. being ofthe students not packed into dorms. Their own 
The University's response to Frank Pasquerilla's $7 financially-directed policies would force them to com­million gift was to admit 500 more students. Wow. At ply with our long-standing plea for assistance. But it's least the 500 students will be women, which will im-hard to imagine them actually doing anything, isn't it? 
_The_Obsen:er__ celebrate Design Editor..................... Margaret Kruse Design Assistants ......................... Patty Fox Kathy Crossett 

st. patrick's day ear 
Tim Neely Layout Staff............................... Kim Parent Randy Rentner Typesetter ............................... Bruce Oakley 

draw "5" tournament

News Editor........................... Tom Jackman Copy Editor.............................. Pam D-egnan Features Layout.......................... Tim Neely Sports Copy Editors ............ Beth Huffman 

senior bar 
Kelly Sullivan Typist .......................................... Cindy Jones Systems Control ................. Chris Albertoli ND Day Editor ........................ Megan Boyle 
Ad Design ......................... Woody &Jeanne Photographer ..................... Unda.Shanahan 
The Obaerv~r (USPS 598 920) Is published Monday through Friday except during eKam and vacation periods. The Obaernr Is published by the students of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $20 per year ($1 0 per semester) by writing Tile Observer, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Indiana 
46556. . 

The Observer Is a member of the 
Associated Press. All reproduction 
rights are reserved. 



TheObserver Thursday, March 5, 1981 -page 3 


El Salvador 
Junta leader extendsamnesty offer 
SAN SALVADOR, El Salvador (AP) receive popular support for general States in connection with two pos­-Junta leader jose Napoleon strik calls and the military claims it sible planned rightist coups here In Duarte said yesterday he is extend­has "smothered" them despite their 1980. ing his offer ofamnesty to anti-junta attacks on banks, military posts, cot­The United States has shipped S I 0 
guerrillas and has ordered the arrest ton and coffee plantations, and 'million in arms aid tothe govern­ofa retired major who called on the villages. ment and the Reagan administration mlltary to take over the government. announced this week It was sending
The rebel-army fighting and ter­Gunmen fired six shots at the U.S. rorist killings have chased away another $25 million worth. Presi­Embassy from a speeding car, but no dent Reagan has said the additional
ealthy businessmen and investment one was Injured and Marine guards capital, Duarte said, and he placed 20 military advisers would bolster a did not return fire, an embassy the blame on "the extreme right and force of 34 already here, but their spokesman reported. There was no the extreme left." role would be strictly non-combat. immediate claim of responsibility. Duarte also said he has ordered Duarte s_aid he would never allow 
It was the first reported attack on tpe arrest of a retired major of the · El Salvador to becme another Viet­the embassy since the Reagan ad­Salvadoran army Roberto nam, but "the leftists are acting like ministration announced a tripling of D'Abuisson. Vietnamese, with Vietnamese train­
military aid to the· military-civilian D'Abuisson told foreign reporters ing, Vietnamese; arms and financing. junta and the provision of 20 ad-Tuesday the army should oust What they ar•: saying about El Sal­visers to train Salvadoran security Duarte and ·fellow Christian vador becoming another Vietnam Is forces to deal with the guerrilla in-Democrats from the government an effort to fool the United States and surgency. and return the country to military other countries to obtain support 
Duarte, in an interview with The rule. for their objectives." Associated Press, renewed his plea He claimed the Christian The United States has accused for up to $300 million in economic Democrats were "the right-wing of Vietnam of being one of the sur­aid, vowed he would not tolerate the Communist Party." D'Abuisson rogates of the Soviet Union in foreign military intervention in the has been mentioned bv the Unit~cl supplvinll: arms to the leftists. civil crisis and said he has no im------------------------------, mediate plas to meet with inter­mediaries offering to bring an end to the violence. 
On Feb. I I, Duarte announced that leftist insurgents who turned themselves in would be given am­nesty. Duarte told the AP that I,SOO have surrendered in !}1ree weeks, enough to encourage him to extend the amnesty offer one more month to Aprilll. 
Since the New Year, the leftist guerrillas have proclaimed two "final offensives." But they did not 
Judy refutes ACLU petition 
INI))ANAPOLJS (AP) -Con· Judy's case is concerned. It's a most Henry Schwarzschild, director of vlcted murderer Steven T. Judy said difficult episode for anyone who has the ACLU's capital punishment yesterday the American Civil any relation to it. I see no reason un­project, said the organization "acted Liberties Union had no authority to der the sun for me to change my at the first moment we were ready to try to stop his Monday execution, position. act." and Gov. Robert D. Orr said he "My responsibility is to see to it Schwarzschild said he had hoped wouldn't intervene in the case. that the law is carried out as it is on Judy's foster parents would try tv in­



JUNIOR CLASS 

( CLASS OF '82) 
Weekend in Chicago April 3, 4, 5 I $50.00 I 

Four (4) people per room 

Due March 4, 5 in LaFortune l:()()pm 
tervene._ At Judy's request, Mr. and 
Mlehlaaa'•own Eddie O'Neale
Mrs. Robert L Carr of Indianapolis have refused to work with the ACLU 
retara•to FatWally's wlth.A.....,_stS in stopping the execution. 
Satarday evenlag Mareh 7 fh30 pm
Judy has said he would rather die than spend the rest of his life in 
PlaylaiJ the lte•t Progre••lve Roc-k prison, and Mrs. Carr has said she 
doesn't wantjudy: to die hating them for trying to stop it. 
FatWally's 2046 South Bead Ave, South Bealllll 
------·-,_.. 
Get Motiuatedl Applications Auailable 


?fot positions in ~ext year's Student Union
9

'J• ? .-Social Commissioner 
e ~ .., Academic Commissioner 
· , -) , Contemporary Arts Commissioner 
• Concerts Commissioner 


Seruices Commissioner 
Publicity Manager 
Mouie Commissioner Also -Accounting majors--· Applications auailable · for Comptrollers Applications may be picked up in the Student Union Offices, 2nd floor 
The ACW and 10 Indiana religious leaders filed a petition aimed at halting the execution, scheduled before sunrise Monday at the state prison atM ichlgan City. 
Judy issued a brief statement through Warden jack Duckworth saying he doesn't want a hearing as requested by the ACLU. 
"Mr. Duckworth, I understand 
what this statue (sic) means and I do 
not want a hearing," judy said. "The 
ACLU has tlled for this hearing with­
out my permission." 
The ACLU petition was sent to Orr and the State Clemency Commis­sion, which can recommend to Orr, but has no authority to grant a stay. That action would be up to the governor, and at an afternoon news conference he indicated the execu­tion wlll proceed as scheduled. 
He said his position "has not changed one bit as far as Steven the books." 
Orr said it was appropriate that 
the commission see the petition and 
"it's obviously up to them what to do 
with it. I think they know my posi­
tion." 
Asked what he would do if the commission requested a stay to study the petition, Orr said, "I doubt very seriously if they would find themselves In that kind of a posi­tion." 
Orr, asked if he thought the peti­tion was valid, replied, "I question very seriously whether it is. I think it is tairly clear Steven Judy docs not wish them to file this petition." 
Asked If he thought the execution would proceed as schcdlcd, Orr said, "I think you arc correct." 
The ACLU's petition seeks a delay in the execution and a gubernatorial commutation of the death sentence to life in prison. 

LaFortune and..are due Friday, March 6. for any questions call ns1 


GUARANTEED TO BE A GOOD TIME 



j'---------------------....,., 
• ,. 


The Observer Thursday, March 5, 1981-page 4 



PHILADELPHIA for BREAK? 

There's still room on the 
Phila. Club Bus 


CALL 3721 
TtUJB~MY ~12HT FILM SE~IE 
The Conformist Dir. by Bernardo Bartolucci (Italy) 1970 A sumptuous study of the social decay which both creates, and is created by, Fascist ideologies. Alberto Moravia's tex· tured novel is given a definitive treatment in Bartolucci's version. Dominique San'da and Jean-Louis Trintignant give performances which are full of subtlety and repressed pas­sion. A beautiful film.. Thursday, March 5 
THE SNITE 'MUSEUM OF ART 

7:30 pm admission $1.0 

sponsored by the ND-SMC ~=:cOMMUNICATION & THEATR~~ 

GRAND OPENING 



CHAUTAUQUA 

comes to ND 
Friday and Saturday­

9:00 to 2:00 ----t 
Featuring Zibby Tebo Jim Stout/ Mike Gorecki 
Hard Folk Rock & Blue Grass In The Ballroom" ·-----Admission $2.00---

IVEllSITY OF PITTSBUllGB GRADUATE SOBOOL OF BUSINESS 
WHAT'S NIXT? It's a tough world out thvie ·even with that degree you've worked hard for. An MBA isn't magic -but it does open doors, 
Talk to us· 


your MBA is the ~est next step you can take. Write or call 
Peace movement 
Dodaro speaks on Pax Christi 
By TIM PEITERS 
News Staff 

This Sunday, Augustinian Semi­narian Bob Dodaro will speak at the 9:30am., 10:45 am., and 12:15 p.m. masses at the Sacred Heart Crypt about the International Catholic Peace Movement, Pax Christi. Dodaro, along with some South 
Bend residents, hopes to start a Pax 
Christi chapter at Notre Dame and 
Saint Mary's. 

Pax Christi was founded at the end of World War II by Bishop Pierre-Marie Theas of France, who led a crusade of prayer for the Ger­man people, according to Mary Ann Rogers, local organizer of the South 
Hayaw-aka seeks Senate re-election 
WASHINGTON (AP) -S. I. Hayakawa says 'Ronald Reagan's landslide and the Republican maority in the Senate have roused him to new political life. But while he's ready to take the heat ofa tough re-election campaign, the climate around the <::apital still makes him want to doze. 
"One of the things that really hit me hard about this climate -and other Californians have complained about this -is that we are not used to central heating," the 74-year-old Hayakawa said in a recent interview. 
He didn't mention whether fellow 
Californian Reagan is one of those 
who shares the problem, but he 

DELL'S . Carry Out BAR-B-QUE 
• Ribs • C 
• Rib Tips • Sausage 
Open Wed.-Sun. Noon til 8:30 3 Blocks Down from Corby's 
RAME 
.tD!JltESS 
J:J:ij. EPHOifE If UMBER 
MAIL TO:  
GRADUAT~  SHCOOL 01' BUSIIfESS  ~  
4DMISSIOifS, OFFICE  I I I  
UlfiVERSITY 01' PITTSBURGH,  I I  
I  
PITTSiURGH, PA  lSi:tC~ou  I I  
I  
.  I  

--·-··-·--------------------------1 
credits one thing they have in com­mon -senior age -with giving him new hope for a second term in 1982, even as sme of the state's big­gest ·political stars are lining up against him. 
"Age has an awful lot to do with it," he said during an interview. "America is a country that makes a great deal of youth." But Reagan, who is 70, has proved that age is no real issue, he said. 
Reagan's daughter, Maureen, may be a problem, however. She's one of several possibilities to challenge Hayakawa 
After four years in the Senate, Hayakawa says he's fit and alert. 
Bend chapter. The movement spread throughout Europe, also has chapters in Australia, and came to the United States ten years ago. 
The main goal ofthe movement is to promote peace and international cooperation in order to set up a more just world order, according to Mrs. Rogers. Pax Christi has par­ticipated in conferences such as the Conference on Non-Violent Al­ternatives in Berry, Northern Ireland, in 1977, and has special United Nations status as a consult­ant. The movement seeks both nuclear and general disarmament. They support a proposal that would give taxpayers the option of having the tax they pay spent on encourag­
ing peace instead ofon the military. 
Rogers said the movement also hopes to encourage people to live just and peaceful lives. "We hope to set an example by our personal lives," said Rogers. "We want all of our members to take a personal stand. It would be inconsistent for a member not to be concerned about social justice." 
Besides the appearances at the masses at the Crypt on Sunday, Dodaro will be at the initial session next Wednesday in the Presbyteryat Sacred Heart at 7:30 p.m. All in­terested are invited to attend. Dodaro will answer questions after the Masses on Sunday and at the meeting. 
But on a number of widely­
reported occasions, Hayakawa has 
nodded off, including one White 
House meeting with former Presi­
dent Carter where California 
gasoline prices were dicussed. 
Actually, he said, it's not true that 
he began dozing once he got to the 
Senate. "It started long before I 
became a senator," he said. 
Others thought interested in his 
seat include Republican Reps. Paul 
N. McCloskey and Barry Goldwater Jr., Democratic Gov. Edmund Brown Jr., and liberal activist Tom 
Hayden. 
Two other possible Democratic 
opponents are novelist Gore Vidal 
and John Tunney, whom Hayakawa 
unseated in 1976. 
There has been some 
speculation that if California polls 
continue to show Hayakawa slipping 
in popularity, President Reagan will 
find a way for the senator to avoid an 
embarrassing defeat. 
"Reagan could offer him an am­
bassadorship to Tanzania or some­
place," said one knowledgeable 
Senate source, "but that would be 
difficult if it appears he's (Reagan) 
trying to get his daughter into the 
Senate." 
Hayakawa has cultivated a reputa­
tion as a feisty politician with 
original, if sometimes erratic, views 
on a wide range of issues. His com­
ments have sometimes angered 
poor persons and members of 
minorities, although the senator is 
himselfofJapanese ancestry. 
Hayakawa concedes his lack of 
political experience has hurt. "I was 
unprepared in the sense that I never 
served on the City Council or a 
school board, so to be on the inside 
ofthe political process, I had to learn 
all of those things," he said. 
Now, he insists, "I've learned the profession ... I am just beginning to . hit my stride." 
Class gives 
~~eading 
Professor Goerner's Gov. 483 class will be giving a dramatic reading ofAlbert Camus' play 'The Just Assassin~·· at 7:30 p.m. on Mon­
. day, March 9 in the Nazz. Hu:-play;. une of Camus' earlier work~, con­cerns the moral and psychological implications involved in a political assassination of a grand duke by the Revolutionary Socialists during the Russian Revolution. 
The reading is free of charge and open to the general public. 


The Observer Thursday, March 5, 1981 -page 5 
$32.6 billion f 
Pentagon requests increase 

WASHINGTON (AP) -Defense Secretary Caspar Weinberger asked yesterday for a $32.6-billion surge in the Pentagon's budget as the down payment for a larger navy, a faster bomber and other new weaponry because "the United States cannot allow the military balance to swing further" in favor of Russia. 
"I think we've fallen dangerously far behind in a number ofvital areas, and I think it essential that we ... do something about this as quickly as we can," Weinberger told the Senate Armed Services Committee. 
"We are asking for things that we believe are absolutely essential," he declared. 
At the same time, the defense secretary warned that "this is not a 
... Chair 
one-year program for summer sol­diers," signaling that the Reagan ad­ministration plans a long-term and costly buildup of the nation's con­ventional and strategic military power. 
Taking note ofReagan administra­tion plans for deep cuts in domestic programs, Weinberger told a news conference that "some sacrifices are going to be required" to com­pensate for essential increases in U.S. military strength. 
The administration called for a 
16.8 billion addition to the Carter administration's final proposals for this fiscal year, bringing the total to SI 78 billion for fiscal 1981. 
At the same time, It recom­mended a leap of 125.8 billion in budget authority for fiscal 1982, starting next Oct. I. That would raise the level next year to $222.2 
· billion, a total never before matched 
in peacetime. 
Only 15.8 billion ofthe additional 
budget authority will actually be 
spent this year and next. Most ofthe 
additional authority, which would 
permit the Pentagon to make con­
tract commitments, would be 
"spent out" in future years as ne.w 
ships, planes and other equipment, 
including a new furm of nerve gas, 
are manufactured. 
The vast bulk of the additional 
funds asked for in fiscal 1981 and fis­
cal 1982 will be earmarked for 
improving the weaponry and readi­
ness of the conventional sea, air and 
land forces. The only major strategic 
weapons initiative Is a nearly $2.5 
billion request to push development 
next year of an advanced bomber 
called a "long-range combat 
aircraft." 

continuedfrom page 1 
mainstream ofAmerican professional life. 
In discussing his approach to development and the professorship In justice education, Goulet said in a 1979 issue of Notre Dame Mag.azine, "Rarely do philosophers use such concepts as development plans, social policies or contemporary political struggles as the raw material oftheir thought and study. Conversely, most development specialists do not examine, sys­tematically and cumulatively, the ethical implications of their plans and prescriptions. These specalists are trained In a single discipline." 
Goulet explains that is essential to have an interdis­cplinary perspective In managing development to bring maximum benefits to Third World countries. 
Goulet states that every society is "badly developed." 
Some arc overdeveloped, thus they waste resources 
and their benefits are concentrated. The wealth lies in a 
small amount ofhands. 
This, he says, is done by exploitation. Their pattern of 
development implies waste and exploitation of other 
societies or their own society. 
Most societies arc underdeveloped. They provide a 
minimum of material welfare to the masses. The con­
nection between the few overdeveloped and the many 
undt·rdeveloped societies forces people to look at 
power problems, conflicts of interest, justice and in­
justice. 
He defines global development as the process of 
GMScholars 
Dinner tonight 
Howard Kehrl, vice chairman of the General Motors Corporation, Is the featured speaker at a GM Scholars dinner at 7:30 p.m. tonight at the Morris Inn. 
Kehrl earned a master's In engineering mechanics from Notre Dame in 1948. Also present for the dinner will be Ed Kennard, vice president for GM's Cadillac Motor Division and a member of Notre Dame's College of Arts and Letters Advisory Council. 
Ekven engineering students who arc GM scholars wll! also be in atten· dance as well as 14 1:ngineering sop­homores from which two will be selected to receive scholarships for their junior and senior years. 
man's desires for the basic amenities oflife with a mini­mum inequity in their distribution. 
Goulet describes development as liberation. He states that present development strategies place great emphasis on basic human needs, on building up self­reliance or achieving food self-sufficiency. He says that exper .iences ofhuman communities struggling to gain ne~ freedoms are the most important source of wis­dom ofdevelopment strategies. He says that true modes of problem solving must come from such experiences and not from pure theory. 
The strategies must operate within the l:'oundaries of the culture so as to serve value needs. This provides an incentive to the population, because it provides a chance of self-fulfillment. He comments that strategies which do not contain incentives are responsible for starving people in societies receiving substantial aid. 
Goulet will spend this summer working in Mexico for a small, non-profit, non-governmental organization. He will research the cultural and social values of compet­ing developmental strategies. Another area of his research will be the development of non-elite ap­proaches to education in Mexico. This research is part of an attempt to build cultural creativity among the poor in Mexico. 
Goulet claims that "it is necessary to the educational experience to learn the nature of the world we live in. We want to know where to put our energies. We have a role to make the world more human. This makes it pos­sible for humans to be the makers oftheir own historv." 



Applications for SMC Commissioners 1981-1982 
ob descriptions andapplication in Student Activities Office 
due Friday, March 6 

today and tomorrow only senior formal registration 
Iafortune and lemans 11:30 · 1:0 You're coming awful close to missing the celebration (don't do itll 

N 


AT THE 



Thursday March 5 Barry Stevens 
9:00-11:30 

Friday March 6 Nazz Music,Competition 
9:00-1:30 

Saturday March 7 Winners Show 

9:00-? 

Editorials Th~rsday, March 5, 1981 -page 6  
P.O. Box Q where else has freed him toJudy's obstinacy remark flippantly that the black hood will be pulled over his headshould not "just so the spectators don't get sick."dictate precedent Herein lies an incisive insightDear Editor, from a tormented soul: The The refusal of Stephen Judy to society in which he has been exercise legal recourse to halt or judged unfit to live is nauseated delay his execution has made -by the consequences of the clear the contradictions of a judi­punitive measures it allows. Per­cial system that enforces capital sistence in this morbid mockerypunishment yet depends upon the will be Judy's final act of bitter­consent of the convicted in the ness toward a society that is case to administer the full course unable to harness violence not on­ofjustice. ly on its streets but in its gallows. Rightly judged incapable of The legality of the death sen­appreciating the lives of others, tence amidst these confusing cir­he has nevertheless been cumstances is often challenged.provided legal sovereignty over But to outlaw capital punishmentthe fate of his own. He has is not to diminish the culpabilityrejected the requests of family of murderers or to believe naively and counsel alike to pursue ef­that with the proper dosage of en­forts for appeal, and Urgent pleas vironmental modification from others on death row in other criminals such as Judy can be states have been met with Judy's rehabilitated, though this is a pos­unyielding insistence on dying in sibility. Rather, culpability es­the electric chair. tablished, it is an assertion of the The claim that Judy has the principle that life is not ours to right to be executed if he wants to, take. The conflicting claims of implied in the statements of both rights in this case, however, do Governor Orr and State Prison serve to illustrate contradictoryWarden Jack Duckworth, mis­logic upon which the death construes the issue. The crime penalty is based and makes more on-campus act1v1tes. As it is, wewas committed by an individual For the matter may alreadyurgent its abolition within a judi­Fair deal are struggling to improve socialand responsibility for the brutal be out of our hands. It is Stephencial process t whereby justice can aspects of the college. Obviously,homicides is imputed solely to Judy, convicted ·murderer, whoonly be approximated. for Fairfield such behavior only hinders thehim. Responsibility for this holds the cards. The State of In­Judy's unwillingness to face life growth of future programs.prospective execution, however, diana is prepared this Mondayin prison is understandable. But Dear Editor,Probably the most controver­is assigned to the State of Indiana morning to electrocute him with­moral decisions must not be Mark Hannuksela' s recent ar­sial issues on both campusesand the people living in it. Judy is out full use of the judicialguided by sentimentality under ticle on the decline of the Notre today are the abolition of parietalsnot, therefore, simply being processes available. This updatedthe guise of individual rights. Dame spirit reflects a and the allowance of alcohol.allowed to die. He is being given version of burning at the stakeUnlike the liberally conceived singleminded attitude which Rules and regulations oftenthe right to be executed in our will be carried out in our names. It programs for social improvement should not be present at an in­is intolerable that this wretched reflect the maturity of students.names. associated with the decade before stitution of higher learning. He precedent should occur because Therefore, student conduct is aThe helplessness of the com­last, the starting point is not with criticized students for cheeringof Judy's bizarre obstinacy. prime factor in initiating change.munity to prevent a death sen­the structures but with the execu­for Fairfield University during the Do our actions speak louder t-hantence carried out in its name is tion. Then, the principle against FU-ND basketball game.Michael]. Baxter, C.S.C. our words? If we want more op­reflected in the demeanor of Judy However, as a sports reporter,capital punishment intact, . the tions on campus, and if we wanthimself. The rudimentary belief in Hannuksela disbands himselfbetterment of prisons will be apt more freedom as students, par­reincarnation that allows him to from any form of objectivity andmore readily to conform to the Domers mar ticularly at Saint Mary's, l~t' sfancy starting a better life some-principle. takes a" rah-rah" approach to his show some respect for ourselves writing. The Fairfield athletesCarroll Hall and others! played with emotional intensityDoonesbury for the entire game. There is ab­Garry Trudeau film showing Angie Vuagniaux solutely no sense in crticizing us Amy Morris for applauding the· inspirational efforts ofour opponents. FairfieldDear Editor, # came to South Bend a heavy un­In regard to the showing of Forced sacrifice derdog and yet performed on an"Caddyshack" this past weekend even level with NO's all­in Carroll Hall (SMC)... A good not a real American hoopsters. Theyflick, right? Well, I wouldn't played with zeal and enthusiasmknow because I couldn't hear sacrifice and the cheering of the studentabove the pandomonium created body reflected our respect forby many a drunken" Domer." Dear Editor, their tremendous effort in an un­The lack of self-control and the Lent is upon us and once again derdog role.disregard for others during the we are asked to make sacrifices. When one considers how oftenshows last weekend was of­Most of us are prepared to give up Notre Dame has performed in anfensive · and revolting. The eating meat on Fridays. But underdog role and come throughaudience was subject to verbal where is the sacrifice? This is not with a stirring performance, winharrassments, such as the volley­meant to be a comment on the or lose, one should have a bettering of"----you" statements and quality of Saga meat (although it appreciation for the play of aother choice phrases pertaining to could be), but a forced sacrifice is school such as Fairfield when itsmotherhood. I don't know about not a sacrifice. In order for a team gives its all against a nation­you, but if I were a parent visitingNO, NO, I MIGHT sacrifice to be meaningful t.here al power such as NO.my sophomore daughter for the NtE) YOU. AF!EI< must be that element of choice. A The cheering of the studentweekend, such incorrigible be­A YlfAR.IN CAPTN­more meaningful sacrifice, at body for Fairfield reflects no dis­havior would lead me to questionITY, HE MIGHTBe least in my state of poverty, respect for Notre Dame, but rat­the essence of the "Notre Dame 
Paul T. Schweitzer John Conroy


•A Ul'Tl& FI?ISI<Y. 

would be to give up some of my her the appreciation of the gutsyMan." Not only parents, but fel­
I 

little cash aild have a Huddle bur­and inspirational play of the un­
low "Domers" and "SMC 
ger on Fridays. The University no derdog. Mark Hannuksela, if hechicks" alike were disgusted. 
longer requires attendance at were an open-minded reporter,Offended listeners, however, Mass. It should not require com­would comment up,:.n the truewere not the only result of Friday pliance with other traditional Cat­drama of athletic competition in­night's escapades. Two chairs of holic practices. Why not close the stead of attacking fhe studentboth monetary and sentimental dining halls completely on Ash body with blind, righteous in­value were taken from Sister Wednesday? dignation.
Madaleva's Memorial. The film series at Saint Mary's 
is only a first step in promoting 
Editorial Board and Department Managers 
Edttor-tn-Cbtej......................................Paul Mullaney
==Ibe_-Obseaer===== 
Feature~ Editor..................................-.......Molly Woulfe Box Q, Notre Dame, IN ·46?56 Managing Editor.......~······ ..············:· ............ Mark Rust PbotoEditor...................................................john Macor 
The Observer is an independent newspaper published by the students of t~e ·Editorials Editor.............................. Michael Onufrak University of Notre Dame du ~.c and. Saint ~ary'~ C<?llege. It does not ~ecessanly Senior Copy Edttor .....................Mary fran Callahan Business Manager ...._......;.........................Greg Hedges reflect the policies of the admmistrauon .of either m~utuuon. The news 1~ r.eported Executive News Editor .........................Tomjackman Controller ...........................................................jim Rudd as accurately and as objectively as posstble: Edu~n~ls represent the opmwn .of a News Editor ...............................................Lynne Daley Advertising Manager ...................................... Mark Ellis 
Advertising Sales Manager ...............Mi•:hael MeSally

majority of the Editorial Board. Commentanes, opm1ons, and letters are rh.e views SMC Executive Editor .......................... Margie Brassil 
Circulation Manager .............................. Beth Hackett 

of their authors. Column SJ?ace is. a:vailable to all members of the cC!mmumty, and SMC News Edttor ......................................Mary Leavitt 
Production Manager .............................J'.>hn McGrath

the free expression of varymg opimons on campus, through letters, 1s encouraged. Sports Edttor ...........................................Beth Hu1Jman 
~--------------------~-----------------------------------------~---------------------------, 
Features 
The Clash -Sandinista ! (Epic) 

B
ruce Springstn·n was an East Coast barroom rocker seven years ago when an overzealous critic dubbed him thl· "future" of rock and roll. The Boss and the music he lives for haw struggled to qualify this state­ment with humility, hut the hero-hungry adoring masses have succee1.kd in turning Bruce into a self­parodying and thoroughly disenchanted superstar. There can hl· no "future ofrock and roll" -the music at Its hl·st is topical, like a newspaper ora snapshot. It's not a vision, it's a heat. Which brings us to the Clash. 
following just weeks after their marvelous Nu-Disk collection ofloose end singles, BlackMarket Clash, and Jcs.o; than a year after the best album of 1980, London Calllng,Sandinista! is a triple album with a smirk on its face: six sides ofn·hellion issued by the only hand brash enough and great enough to get away with such a 
monstrous gamble. In fact, with these thirty-six new 
tunes, the Clash hit the jackpot. 
The album kicks off with "The Magnificent Seven," in 
which the Clash funk their way through with one-liners 
like: "Socrates and Mllhous Nixon both went the same 
way -thru the kitchen." It gets funnier. With "Ivan 
meets G.l. Joe" the group perpetrates a sort ofcomic 
strip version oflife during wartime that gurgles with the sounds of video games and pinball machines whilst discussing nuclear holocaust. Ivan and G.I.Joe end up going "over the road to watch China blow." A song like this exemplifies the best qualities ofthe Clash. It con­tains both dead serious politicsand great musical enter­tainment -a style the hand refuses to compromise throughoutSandinista!. This is a refusal that asks for hero status, the kind Hruce Springsteen was too humble to go for. The Clash are making political awareness the heroism of 1981, seeking courage and strength against the Increasing llls of modern society. The sounds of Space Invaders are their warning signs. 
When MlckJones docs "Somebody Got Murdered" in his Top Forty "Train in Vain" singalongstyle, irony drips off his tongue like the saliva ofa hungry wolf_ The Clash follow this with an remarkably danceable number called "One More Time": 
You don't need silicone to calculate poverty 
Watch when Watts town burns again 
The bus goes to Montgomery 
'cos it's one more time In the ghetto 
There isn't a rock band on earth that can beat that song for tension, excitement and foreboding. Side three opens with "Lightning Strikes (Not Once 
But Twice)." Here the group hits again with the riff from "The Magnificent Seven." One ofthose "all about New York" songs, it works like Nagasaki_ As eclectic as London Calling was, "The Sound ofthe Sinners" does 
the songs on that album one better by using gospel 
music to say, in effect, "you're the one in trouble, Mr. 
Falwell." 

The fourth side includes "Midnight Log," which boasts a haunting rockabilly beat and lyrics about fin­gerprints, multi-corporations and the Devil. Again, no other rock hand in the world ... 
Anti-draft sentiments are expressed in "The Call Up," anti-CIA sentiments in "Washington Bullets." This song includes the story ofSandinista revolurionaries of Nicaragua, who deposed the hated U.S. puppet dictator Anastasio Somoza, sung in front ofa lovely Latin-style marimba melody. 
As if all ofthis weren't enough, the Clash close the al­
bum with a remake of"Career Opportunities," an ex­
plosive single from their first album. This time, though, 
it is sung by a little child backed by a piano. As the num­
ber ends, the child exclaims "oh, no!" and "Shepherds 
Delight" takes off. Though it's basically a simple sound 
effect, the rush ofwind and wailing ofsirens herein 
make that "oh, no" sound very close to reality. It's Ar­
mageddon time. 

These arc just a few ofthe excellent songs onSan­
dinista!. Others, like "Rebel Waltz" and "Something 
About England," float around like butterflies, serving as 
something beautiful among all this misery. But the true 
potential ofthe Clash is realized on "The Crooked 
Beat." Over insistent percussion, a lazy bass riff, snip­
pets ofacoustic guitar, organ and horns, the singer 
intones: 

Start the car let's make a midnight run Across the river to South London To dance to the latest hi-fi sound Ofthe bass, guitar and drum Seeking out a rhythm that can take the pressure off Stepping in and out ofthat crooked crooked beat 
I'll never forget the feeling I got when Springsteen sang "I Fought the Law" at the ACC a few weeks ago. That performance, "The Crooked Beat" andSan­dinista! together serve as a reminder: rock and roll is here to stay. From "Rock Around the Clock" to "God Save the Queen" it has been waiting for an album like this. And, thanks to the Clash, the beat goes on. 
Stephen Swonk 

Rock History II 
Moody Blues: from blue to moody 
ne of the few groups to remain consistently
O popular for over a decade despite a relative lack of 
nl'W recording..; is the Moody Blues. However, they 
have not always hcen the same group that one hears on 
all,ums like Days ofFuture PtlSSed andA Question of 
Halam:e. 
The Moodics began way back in 1964. Most of the 
original members were members ofprominent British 
hands. In fact, these bands more than once played on 
the same bill with a hand destined to bn·omc much 
more prominent -the Hcatles. Eventually, these 
various bands broke up, and the best members of these 
joined togetht·r and formed the Moody Blues. The 
original band was essentially the same as the current 
band with an important exception: the lead singer of 
the original Moody Hlues was Denny Laine. The style of 
the group was that ofa typical British blues band like 
the Spencer Davis Group and the original Fleetwood 
Mac. They had several releases which made little im­
pact on the charts, but they had one which was big ­
196Ss "Go Now." 
After a lack ofcontinued success (a problem wl)ich l>cfcll almost all early British Invasion groups), Laine and original bass guitarist Clint Warwick left the band_ (Laine tried to hccome a solo star with no success, and in 1971 became one ofthe three permanent members of Paul McCartney's Wings.) In their places camejohn Lod~ andjustin Hayward. With the arrival ofthose two 
to join Mike Pinder, Gracme Edge, and Ray Thomas, the band completely changed. 
The change became apparent with the early-1968 release ofDays ofFuture Passed. Having nothing to lose, the Moodies agreed to record an album with the London Festival Orchestra. It was the first album ofits type in rock history, and was widely praised by critics. It also yielded two hit singles: "Tuesday Afternoon" and "Nights in White Satin." 
Their next album,/n Search ofthe Lost Chord, set the pattern for future Moody Blues releases. Instead of using an orchestra, the Moodies became one. Among the five members roughly 25 different instruments were played. (This continued through the remainder of their LP's; they seldom, if ever, used outside help_)That LP is considered a cheap commercialization ofall the current mind-altering fads and is rather absurd in retrospect. 
They gradually began to build a following; each al­bum was more successful than its predecessor. Finally, the reissue of"Nights in White Satin" in 1972 put the Moodics over the top -their next new LP, Seventh Sojourn, hit number one. 
After a U.S. tour in 1973-74, they broke up to pursue solo projects, most ofwhich ended up in the cut-out bins. After the lack ofsolo success, they successfully reunited for an album (Octave) and another U.S. tour in 1978. 
Tim Neely 
Thursday, March 5, 1981 -page 7 


Quiz :XV: 1980-81 
A 
somewhat difficult quiz was offered last week. Jerry Scott of Flan­ner Hall brought me a response which contained four and a half correct answers. Although the comest part of this quiz ended weeks ago, I felt it only fair to reward his efforts with a mention of his name. I'm sure he, and the rest ofyou, will recog.nize most of the records named; you probably did not realize that all of them bombed at ont· time. 
This week's quiz is going to deal exclusively with 45's and LP's which have been released orotherwise become popular since)anuary 1980. This one should be easy, right? Well, you probably know me too well for that. There is a lot ofinteresting trivia to be gleaned from thl· music ofthe past 14 months. For example: 
-Both of Bruce Springsteen's 45's from The Riter feature B-side songs which do not appear on any legitimate album. One ofthese was mentioned in the Springsteen trivia quiz from last semester -the 8­side of"Hungry Heart," which is "Held Up Without a Gun." The other appears as the flip ofhis current single "Fade Away," a songcalled "Be True." According to the lyrics (which arc included with the 45 ), the song was copyrighted in 1979. That means it may have been intended for his current LP but was not incl_uded because ofa lack ofspace. 
-The 45 version of Billy joel's "Sometimes a Fantasy" is nearly a minute longer than the version on Glass Houses. Additional in­strumentation is tacked on, and at the end ofthe 45,Jocl screams, ~n parody ofjohn Lennon, "I've got blisters on my blisters!" 
-After the death ofjohn Lennon last Dec. 8, six Lennon album~ and six Beatles albums re-entered the charts, includingSgt. Pepper's Lonely Hearts Club Band, which entered for its sixth different chart run. 
-The old story ofa big hit with a songrecorded to fill out an album reappeared. Some previous cases ofthis were "Twist and Shout" by the Beatles, which filled out the British Please Please Me, and "You Ain't Seen Nothin' Yet," which was the last song recorded for Bachman-Turner Overdrive'sNot Fragile. The most recent case is of Leo Sayer's "More Than I Can Say," an old Bobby Vee song used to fill out Sayer'sLiving in a Fantasy LP; the song went to number two In December 1980. 
More ofthe same kind oftrivia can be found in this week's quiz. So here goes: 
1. 
In the song "Woman,"John Lennon mumbles some words over the intro_ What arc his exact words? 

2. 
This record has a very interesting history. It was originally recorded In 1978 and was offered to Arista Records, the artist's then­current !abet They turned it down. In fact, shortly after this setback, Arista dropped the artist from its roster. It wasn't until late 1979 that this record was released (on another labc:l); it bombed in the States, but became a number-one record in England injune 1980. The record finally began takingoffin the United States seven months later, almost three years after it was first recorded. 

3. 
What was the most successful album by a British New Wave band during 1980? It was the only one to crack the Top Ten on the album charts. 

4. 
Several new records were set for mov~ soundtracks during the past year. One ofthese was the soundtrack which yielded the most Top 20 singles (five). All you have to do is name the soundtrack; you don't have to name the five singles. 


5. Name the artist on each ofthese Top 20 singles: 
(a) 
"Take a Little Rhythm" 

(b) 
"Into the Night" 

(c) 
"Pilot ofthe Airwaves" 

(d) 
"Together" 

(e) 
"Everybody's Got to Learn Sometime" 


6. Name the artist on each ofthese Top 20 albums: 
(a)Mouth to Mouth 
(b) Wild Planet ( c )just One Night (d)Gideon 
(e)Fun and Games 
7. 
Late in 1980, Fantasy Records released a previously-unreleased live concert by Crecdcnce Clearwater Revival calledThe RoyalAlbert Hall Concert. Not only that, to make CCR fans even happier, it was list­priced at 55-98. Yet there was a problem with the above release. What was the problem? 

8. 
The Spinners had two bighits in 1980, "Cupid" and "Working My Way Back to You." However, both these songs were actually medleys; the new parts wer~ written by their producer, Michael Zager. Name the other half ofeach medley. 

9. 
Pete Townshend's "Let My Love Open the Door" made the top ten last summer. Name the last Who single (prior to that) to make the top ten. 


I 0. One ofthe first ofthe recently-revived 10-inch albums was a col­lection ofold, new, borrowed, and blue Cheap Trick material. What was it called? 
Here are the answers to last week's quiz: 
( 1) "Nights in White Satin" by the Moody Blues bombed in 1967, succeeded in 1972; (2) "Layla" by Derek and the Dominos failed in 1971 short, hit big in 1972long; (3) "The First Time Ever I Saw Your Face" by Roberta Flack became the number-one single of 1972; ( 4) "Shaving Cream" by Benny Bell was the 29-year old hit of 1975; ( 5) 'Please Please Me" and "She Loves You" were the two top-1 0 Beatie reissues of 1964; (6) "Lady" by Styx was the Chicago hit of 1972, the national hit of 1975; (7) "Amie" by Pure Prairie League was the other 1972-1975 combination; (8) "Wasted Days and Wasted Nights" by Freddy Fenderwas released in 1959, became a hit in 1975;(9)Aeros­mith, with "Dream On" and "Walk This Way," was the other act to hit with two reissues; and ( 10) "Spirit in the Night" by Manfred Mann's Earth Band became a hit only after their other Bruce Springsteen 
. remake, "Blinded by the Ught,"hit number one. 
Ihe-~==~~==========~==================== 
~<:)c:t~~======================T=hu=rs=da=y=,M=~=c=h5=,=19=8=1==pa=g==e8 
Campus 
•4:30 
p.m. lecture: honorable gu!\ cipelli, "role. of sports in his career," room 101, law school. 

•7 
p.m. -junior class: chicago trip sign-up, Ia fortune. 

•7 
p.m. engineering research lecture: "speech digitation," dr.david cohn, 356 fitzpatrick. 

•7,9,11 
p.m.-film: "dirty har­ry," knights of columbus hall, SI admission. 

•7:30 
p.m. -organizational 


meeting: young americans for . freedom, room 2-d, Ia fortune. : •8:00 p.m. -"el salvador: 
revolutions or death," carroll hall ( smc), a discussion will fol­low with roy bourgeois. 
•8:00 p.m. -film: "psycho," , haggar auditorium, admisssion · S. 50, sponsored by the psychol­
ogy dept. 
SMC supports CovenantHouse 
By BETSY CALANCA 
News Staff 
Saini: Mary's Student Government is supporting Covenant House, a 
little-known  charity  organization  
that  helps  homeless  teenagers  in  
New York City.  

The Covenant House was es­tablished in 1972 by Father Bruce Ritter and takes in runaways and ot­her homeless teenagers from the sareets who have been exposed to drug pushers, pimps, and pornog­raphers. No one is turned down, and the teenagers receive food, clothing, professional counseling, a shower, and a place to sleep. Covenant House has helped over I 5 thousand teenagers in the past three years alone. The House is ataffed by volun­teers who are made up ofmostly col­lege students. The cost of this organization exceeds S5 million per year, and most of this money comes from donations. Although the House 
has only recently begun to receive government aid, this assistance only contributes to 20 percent of the to­tal. 
Today's Quote 
The straight and narrow path would not be so narrow if more people walked it. 
Molarity 


The Daily Crossword 
All Aiahts Reserved · 

3/5/81 
Michael Molinelli 
ACROSS 29 Life story, 56 Lookout's 24 Pacific 1 Layers for short spot Islands 6 Cartograph· 30 Artistic 56 Onetopay 25 Italian 
er's output group 59 Assistant city 10 Dinner, 32 Singer Paul IKi Comfort 26 Abodes for one and family 61 Short line 27 Gotham 14 Groupof 34 Hemmed on a fish· tower skits 36 Circum· hook 28 Wife of 15 Distinctive scribe 62 -theline Abraham 
quality 38 Neophyte (behaved) 29 Youth org. 16 All:pref. 39 Lend-63 British gun 31 English 17 Festoon (listen) 64 Like a Poe degree 18 Extreme 41 Opera hero setting 33 Start a 
elation 43 Adage crop 20 Castaway 44 Stops DOWN 35 Became 22 Nervecell 46 Roost 1 Baby tight23 Belgian 48 Acquired: carriage • 37 Subject 
town abbr. 2 "-and the 40 Hollow 24 Ointment 49 Houston Swan" stems 25 Precipitous athlete 3 VIsionary's 42 Backslide 26 Restaurant 50 Paced milieu 45 Public 
employee 53 Brief fling 4 Part of the displays Old World 47 Be fretful Yesterday's Puzzle Solved: 5 Mexican 49 "Orang 

misters nach -" 6 Warclubs 50 Away! 7 -langsyne 51 Singing 8 For group 9 Bathhouses 52 Did a 
10 Obelisk, jockey's perhaps job 11 Arabian 53 "-quam 
VIP vlderl" 12-Domini (No. Car. 13 Charge upon motto) 
property 54 Subs are 19 Nile made here feature 55 A Gardner 21 Himalayan 57 "Whendo nation we-?" 

SPRING BREAK SPECIAL TO O'Hare 
To O'Hare March 12, 1981 6:00p.m. Loads at Circle 6:15p.m. Loads.SMC LeMans Bus Stop 
-
To O'Hare March 13, 1981 

12:30 p.m. &4:00p.m. Loads at Circle 
12:45 p.m. & 4:15p.m. Loads SMC LeMans Bus Stop 
SPECIAL FARE SPECIAL TIME · 25 Percent Discount $15 One Way Hourly Service from O'Hare March 22, 1981 Every Hour 
.LOADS AT O'HARE Lower Level i:ar5on Circle Restaurant Tickets on sale March 5 & 1 0 in LaFortune Activities Center Between noon and 5 p.m. Call 283-3031,9 a.m. to 5 p.m.; 283-6283 after 5 p.m. 
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,J 
THE OMBUDSMAN SERVICE IS SEEKING APPLICAliONS FOR THE POSITION OF DIRECTOR 
APPLICATIONS CAN BE LEFT WITH 
THE STUDENT GOVERNMENT SECRETARY OR IN. · THE OMBUDSMAN OFFICE 
APPLICATIONS ARE DUE BY THE 13th OF MARCH 
FOR MORE INFORMATION 
CALL: TOM-3lOOnnGorO-~U-D 
Thursday, March 5, 1981 -page 9 

Irish women seek win in post-season play 
By CRAIG CIIV AL 
Sports Writer 
BI.OOMINGTON, IN -Bobby Knight 
won't be here, but the folks in Assembly Hall 
still might be in for a coaching treat tonight. 
Coach Mary DiStanislao brings her 9· 1 5 Notre Dame women's basketball team here as the fifth seed in the five-team Indiana AlAW Division I tournament. And she's making it clear that she doesn't expect her Fighting Irish to take their doormat role lying down. Notre Dame opens up against number-four seed Ball State (9-12) at 7:30 tonight, and the last thing Mary D. wants to see is a rerun oflast month's 79-61 Cardinal victory. 
"That was a game we could have, and should have won," DiStanislao insists. "We've got to realize that basketball games can be won or lost in the first five minutes of a half. Our players just don't seem to be used to seeing opposing teams coming out and hustling and playing aggressively right from the opening tap." 
Notre Dame trailed Ball State by as many as 26 points in the second halfbefore ajenny Klauke-led rally got the Irish to within l 0 with 4:00 to play, but no closer. 
"We can't-be satisfied with moral victories or gallant comebacks against teams that we have a realistic chance to beat," DIStanislao said after the game. "This team has to play a solid 40 minutes ofbasketball every night." 
And DiStanislao, not unlike Knight, isn't above kicking a few chairs to get her team's attention. 
The one bright spot of the Ball State loss was Klauke's rampage. The '5-9 I/2 freshman established three Notre Dame single-game records while scoring all of her game-high 27 points In the second half. The 27 points established a mark for most points in one half, and she also set new standards for free throws made (nine) and consecutive free throws (eight). In addition, Klauke led all players with I 3 rebounds in just 22 minutes. 
While encouraged by Klauke's recent surge, DiStanislao is in search of more of­fensive balance. 
"Lately, we've had people taking turns carrying us on offense," she says. "And we can't afford to have that happen. We can't have just one player in double figures, unless it's closer to triple figures." 
But DiStanlslao remains confident th'at her Irish can turn the tables on Ball State and snap their six-game losing streak. 
"That was just one of those nights for them that everything they threw up went in the hole," she shrugs. "It's pretty unlikely that will happen again." 
Indeed, the Irish held the Cadinals big guns, center Shelley Silk ( 14.3 ppg) and guard Lori Robbins ( 14.2) pretty well in check, but were burned by sophomore guardJane Emkes' season-high 20 points. On the season, Emkes averaged better than seven assists per ballgame. 
At the same time Notre Dame's six-game skid -the longest losing streak in the schpol's history -has sent the Irish into post-season play on a downbeat, it has also frustrated Mary D.'s bid for her 100th career coaching victory. She has been stuck on 99 since the Irish defeated St. Ambrose on February 7 to reach the .500 mark. 
"I'm starting to feel like Don Quixote," she joked after' Saturday's loss to Illinois. "It's like I've been searching for this for all of my life. 
"Seriously, though, it's a lot more impor­tant for the kids to get that next win than it is for me," she says. "Especially now that we're in the tournament." 
The winner of tonight's game faces number-one seed Indiana tomorrow, while defending champion and second seed In­diana State and number-three seed Purdue square offin the other semifinal game. Satur­day's championship game is set for 3:00 p.m., with the winner advancing to the Region V tournament next weekend at' Illinois State University in Normal. · 
Indiana AIAW Division I Tournament Bloomington, IN 
Lally, Liebscher • co-captains with confidence 


By MARK HANNUKSELA 
Sports Writer 
At this time last year, Maggie l.ally, Sheila 
Liebscher and the rest of the Notre Dame 
women's basketball team were on top ofthe 
world. 

Okay, so maybe it wasn't the world. But 
they were on top of the state oflndiana. 
They were the best Division III basketball 
team in the state, and they were preparing to 
establish themselves as one ofthe best teams 
in the region. 
Confidence was just oozing from this 
team. Watching them practice, one got the 
impression that they not only hoped, but ex­
pected to win. They weren't cocky, but they 
were good, and they knew it. 
Oh, what a difference a year makes. 
Much has changed since last season. Divi­sion III is no longer the level ofcompetition for this team. And they're not on top any more. And it seems that the confidence has all oozed out. 
If there arc any drops left, the Irish will need them wnight, when they face Ball State in the opening round of the Indiana State tournament. 
The game will mark. a rematch between the Irish and the Cardinals. Earlier this year, Notre Dame dropped a 79-61 decision to Ball State in Muncie, Ind. 
Individually, the players will tell you that that was a game the Irish should have won. They'll also tell you that tonight's game will be different from the first one. 
"There's no doubt in my mind that we can win tonight," says senior co-captain Maggie !.ally. "We have a very good chance, because we learned a lot from the last game. We know what type of ball to play now." 
Liebschcr, Notre Dame's other co-captain, feels the same way. 
"I think we can win," she says. "In the last game, we had a real strong second half, and ma(''' a good comeback, but the first half killed us. I don't think we'll let that happen again. We know now that we have to play 40 minutes ofbasketball." 
Despite the talk, the team is not exhibiting 
the confidence that they carried into last 
year's tournament. Last season's practice 
sessions were filled with comments like the 
following: "C'mon you guys, we gott:· ~et 
this right, because we're going to go ou· ·1u 
win this weekend.'' This season, the com­
ments have been shortened: "C'mon you 
guys, we gotta get this right." 
"We had to start from scratch this year," 
says Lally, a 5-l point guard from Sharon, Pa. 
"That took up a lot of time that could have 
been used to work on other things.'' • 
"Yea, we had to go back to the basics," echoed Liebscher. "We had to go back over the fundamentals. Naturally, when you have to start that far back, you're going to be a little behind the other teams." 
This back to basics movement began last April, when the slate was cleaned and Mary DiStanislao was hired to lead Notre Dame to the land ofwomen's basketball prosperity. 
The movement has continued throughout this season, as Notre Dame has attempted to compete against nationally ranked teams like South Carolina and Virginia. 
Despite the disappointments and frustra­tions that l24-48losses can cause, no one is yet ready to throw in the towel. 
"This has been a disappointing season to the extent that it hasn't been the type of season that I had hoped my senior season would be," said l.ally. "I was hoping the jump would not be that much ofa disaster as far as our record is concerned.'' 
"Next year will be tough too, because it will be a predominately freshman­sophomore ream. 1;\ut I would say that by the time this crop of recruits is able to learn the system, they'll be ready to roll." 
Lally, who was recently named to the Region IV All-Academic tl·am (along with sophomore teammate Shari Matvey ), is sure that Notre Dame women's baskl·tball will soon be ready to roll because, as All-State In­surance says, "they're in good hands." 
"I know Mary D. can get the job done," she says. "She has great coa<:hing ability, and a lot of respect for her players. She <:ommun­icates well with the team, shl· has a gn·at per­sonality, and she's gcnuindy concerned about us. You can sec that when she goes out and puts her reputation on thl·line to argue a silly foul call. I have never had such a good coach in all my eight years oforganized bas­ketball." 
l.iebscher feels the same way about her 
coach. 
"She has a firy personality, a never-ending 
energy," says the Davenport, Iowa native. 
"Coach has a thorough knowledge ofbasket­
ball. I have learned more from her in one 
year than I have'from all my other coaches. 
She's just a great coa<.·h." 
DiStanislao tonight will be looking for her 
100th career coad1ing win. Liebs<:hcr and 
the rest ofher Irish teammates would like for 
:hat win to go,on this 80-81 team's record. 
··we would like to get Coach her IOOth wm tonight. We know how mu<.·h it would mean, and we want to be the team to do it We've missed six times now, so we're just going to ha': to get It tonight." 
Last year, most people would have con­sidered that a promise. This year... well...maybe. Maybe. 

.---------------­
The Observer Thursday, March 5, 1981 -page 10 

.. .Bouts 
continuedfrom page 12 
ing fights of the bouts. 1980 Champ 
Jim Mladenik used a series of com­binations to knock out Buffalo's Mark Nasca just 20 seconds into the third round. Saturday, Mladenik will defend his title against Dave "Spider" Lockard. 
Lockard won the most unpopular decision ofthe night, taking two out of three ballots to defeat Mark Leising. Lockard used an effective left to counter the height and reach advantage held by Leising. A hearty 
round of boos greeted the decision when it was announced by jack Lloyd. 
Now that the regular season is over, the Notre Dame swim team · 1980 163-pound Champ Tom' preparesfor a record-breaking weekend at the Midwest Invitational McCabe·took on a willing but inex­Swimming Championships. (photo by Tim McKeogh) perienced freshman and advanced 

to a Saturday title defense. Ed Bulleit apparently took the words ofhis cor­
CUJB!lcome 9nto ©u!l oflQd 

ner man to heart and fought as 
r .-. r 

though he had nothing to lose. McCabe drew blood early, but 
Bulleit valiantly stood and slugged it out to go the distance.. Chris Digan used his obvious 
1981 Black Cultural Arts 
Fashion Show 

reach advantage to hold off Mike Marrone and win a split decision.
March 7, 1981 8:00pm 

More than any other fighter last night, Marrone showed a great ability to take a punch.
Tickets available $3.50 

Two I 70-pound fighters with great upper body strength won
345 o'Shag per person 

unanimous decisions in their class. Greg Brophy defeated freshman 
I 
Mike Cray, while Rob Verfurth out­distanced Dan "Double D" Dooher. Mike Burke, 1980's 177-pound 
Monogram Room. A.C.C. 

champ, used consistent jabs to stop Gary Holihan at 1:06 of the third In the other heavyweight bout, round to defend his title. He will face Mike Walsh defeated john lglar in a last year's runner-up, jim Burlebach, fight that started out as a heavy­who took a unanimous decision hitter, but quickly deteriorated into from South Bend's Dave Sassano. a wrestling match. 

The heavyweight fighters were The featured match of Saturday's the crowd pleasers of the evening. finals will come in the Super Both bouts ended with split deci­Heavyweight division, when foot­sions, as Neal Ellatrache defeated a ball All-America Scott Zettek takes much taller Mike Collins with his ag­on former Golden Glover Mark gressive style. LeBlanc. 
The ND women's fast pitch softball team has begun workouts for this season, Monday through Thursday, from 3:30 to 5:30 on Green field. New players are welcome. For more informa­tion contact Karen Alig at 1263. 
Digger Phelps has signed a second basketball recruit, 6-0, 187-p~und guard Dan DuffofLincoln, Ill. A four-year starter averaging 15 ppg., Duff helped his Lincoln High School squad compile a I04-II slate since his freshman season, including a 26-0 mark and a number two state ranking this year. A candidate for Illinois' "Mr. Basketball" honors, Duff is Lincoln's all-time assist leader, and was a Class AA All­State player as a junior. Duffboasts a g.p.a. of4.4 on a 5.0 scale. 
• • .Netters 

continuedfrom page 12 
net and sh~e the winner's hand. "Steve really ticked me off," said Miami's 
coach jim Frederick, one ofthe classier coaches in the business. "Line calls 
are tough to make, and you should call them like you see them and stick to it. 
Maybe you make an honest mistake once in a while, but if you think your 
opponent'scheetingyou, there are ways to go about correctingit, like asking 
for a linesman. But Steve's behavior was uncalled for." 
And the apathy of the big-name collegians was evident by Ohio State's All-American Ernie Fernandez. The junior Davis Cupper sat and played a marvelous little eletronic game since a little blister on his racquet hand prevented him from playing. And while his teammates were locked in a close struggle with the Irish and in need ofmoral support, the 1979 BigTen singles champ was pumping in more quarters and recording a new high score. If the Irish were to qualify as this region's representative in the NCAA tourna­
ment, it definitely would rock the tennis world. With just two scholarships (most schools have five for tennis), no conference affiliation and no nationally-ranked players, the Irish would make it on spirit. Notre Dame has done quite well in the past few years(20-8 in '79, 20-3last spring, 4-1 already this season), and the only thing that has kept them from a post-season trip to Athens, Ga., has been a few Big Ten powers. 
Last year's losses came at the hands of Michigan (9-0), Ohio State (5-4) and Wisconsin (6-3), and Michigan went to the NCAAs. This year, Notre Dame has already beaten Ohio State (5-4) and plays host to Wisconsin this Saturday. Michigan comes to town next month. 
Past history dictates that ifyour school isn't in Texas, California or Florida, forget about winning the tournament. But just getting there... "After that," as Digger Phelps would say, "it would all be gravy." 

1~ IL 

OGANIZATIONAL MEETING 
~ iff '* 
SUnday March 8th 7:00pm LaFortune Uttle Theatre 
Ocean Front Hotel 
SPRING 
Rooms in Lauderdale 
BREAK 
This Spring Break?! 
'81! 
Student Sun trips offers: 

eAs low as $139/person/wk 
• All motels conveniently 
located on the strip e Limited space available 
For Reservation Info. call toll-free 1-800-848-9540 In Ohio 1-e00-232-3432. 
AAAANGEMEN.TS BY STUDE"'' ··lJNTRIPS. INC

1.-.----------·-----·.., 
_________.________-­
--~ ­

1 
Thursday, March 5, 1981 -page~ 1

:C1assifieds 1 
LOST ONE. OPAL.RING.IN.ANTIOUE Ann Landers says: • fii;j~~~·~~~;;;ji·~·~~~~·~~·F·;;;j~;;·;.t~;~;; SETIING AEWARDtltl IF FOUND, Have a problem? Can't sleep? Can't 8. Call Cindy al4-t-5792.
NOTICES I· 1'--_FO_R_R_EN_T__.I I PERSONALS I
PLEASE CALL MARY AT 4956 (SMC) work? Can'l? Killed anyone recently? Constipated? Fall down and go boo­GoGonzol More, morel PROFESSIONAL TYPING Term LOST· HP32E calculalor lasl friday boo?
............. ··················· 

FOR RENT· UGLY DUCKLING RENT­
papera, theses, etc. Tape lranscription. morn. lllound. call Brian,1773 JANE-0, Well, all you have lo do Is GET DILLON STILL No. 1 
A-CAR FROM $7.95 A DAY AND 7 ...............................................
Laal year's same low prices. All work WHY DO YOU HATE SCOOP? COUNSELING I guaranteed. aardvark automatiC solu­LOST ACANON 35mm CAMERA (GIII-CENTS A MILE. PHONE 259-UGLY HEY RED PICK-UP GANG, tions. 289-6753 17). PROBABLY LEFT IN THE ACC. 
FOR RESERVATIONS. Take My 1.0. PLEASEIll THE PICTURES (AND THE CAMERA) MARDI GRAS II THE SPOK~SMAN OF THE GROUP 
Jell Jeffers is very ugly. USED & OUT-OF-PAINT BOOKS 
.............. MARDI GRAS II 
HAVEGAEATVALUETO ME. REWARD ................................. .............. 
AVAiLABLE NEXT SCHOOL YEAR 2 -NEW ORLEANS STYLE-
searched. CALL MARY. 8085. Need Ride To DALLASIII For Mid·
bought, sold, ERASMUS NEED R-IDE ·-ra -F'LofiioA . preterabry
FIVE BEDROOM HOUSES 234 2626 semesler Break Call Dave al3306BOOKS. Tues-Sunday. 12-6. 1027 E. 
Ft. Lauderdale area. lor 4 girls. Will 
JUNIORS ....................................................

LOST: A WOMAN'S GOLD PEDRE Jeffer~~on 1nlert18cl1on) WATCH WAS LOST ON FEB.27 NEAR Weekend ln.Chicago AN--TOSTAL AN TOSTAL AN TOSTAL
Wayne (One block aou1h of Eddy­share usual. We wouldn'l mind split­
ling Into 2 and 2 So call il you have 
THE ACC. REWARD IF FOUND! Aprll3,4,5 We slill need more people! Show up
room lor rwo or lour. Ask lor LESLIE or MORRISSEY LOAN FUND PLEASE CALL 7942. MAUREEN 7936. 
Sign-up Wed. and Thurs. Sunday, March 81h al 7:00 pm
WANTED 
LaFortune7-6 p.m. LaForlune Lillie Thealer.

Emergency loans lor NO sludents. $20-.... 
. $200. One percenl 1n1eres1. De tn one Las-r•·aLuE DOWN coAT -sATURDAY RYAN VER .BERKMOES FOR UMOC month Open 11 :30-12 30. M-F Base­NIGHT AT 914 SOUTH BEND AVE. JUNIOR WEEKEND IN CHICAGO Can II be lhal Capt Axe. lhe evilTHERE IS NO DOUBT. ment ol LaFortne. Fmal day lo sen1ors BLACK HAT IN ONE POCKET IF 
NEED RIDE TO PHOENIX. Will BE THERE 1111 bearded one. Is finally dead? Bul whal to apply 11 Fnday, March 13 FOUND. PLEASE CALL MIKE AT 1615. SHARE USUAL. CALL MARK 3303 "Vinyl" Jeffers lor UMOC. c;~~·i·~~&·e·;~~;;~~d....... ············ ........... are these reporls ol Col. Zero Max's dealh? Whal kind of rumour-m111 islhls TYPING--$.65 a page Also profes­LOST·_ SILVER MEDAL ON CHAIN . 
Ne~d .rld~t~D~ii~;·;~;-b·;;;i;c~ii J~h~ David Barlholome galaxy lurntng Into? sional resumes done. Call Dan. 272-LEFT IN ANGELA ATHLETIC CENTER Higgins al 8553 or 1715 and leave a . ............... ..
Partridge, LeDoux, Gurgln, Keyes.
R·viiN iiEii-sERKMoEs FOR uMoc. 
O'Grady, & Meehan
message. BETSY -The answer Is Angers. See
5549 ON WED FEBRUARY 25. Specs­THERE CAN BE NO DOUBTIIIIIIII HE IS SamDismond
......... ...... . you Monday. Good luck lhis weekend I 
double s1ded 1) sacred heart ol Jesus2) THE MOST OBVIOUS CHOICE, OF Daly & Kornick
Need lwo ndes lo Fl. Lauderdale Area -JEFF Gotchen & Muench
NEED AIDE FOR 2 OR 4 GIRLS TO Mary with child Lalin script Family hair­COURSE 111111 
over Spring Break. Will share usual. Ginocchio, MacKrell. Bertolini,FLORIDA AREA. PAEFEAABL Y FT. loom CALL 8477 GENEROUS Call Cathy 4077 SMC. MOTi-IEA Franken, Winking, & O'Conner
LAUDERDALE AREA, OVER SPRING REWARD UPON SAFE RETURN MY ALWAYS SAID a 
woman's got to do what a man gets to Paul KosidowskiBREAK WILL SHARE USUAL. PLEASE 
NEED 2 RIDES TO FT. LAUDERDALE. do" THE OUTCASTS----MARCH 7 FLA. AREA OVER SPRING BREAK Need ride lo Des Moines lor spring Barry Stevens WASH HALL 8PM $2 CALL LESLIE OR MAUREEN AT 7936. LOST: 3 hand grenades while working 
food line in Norlh Dining Hall. Please 

CALL KATHY 4077 (SMC). break. Please call Marlins, 1284 Karen Y-aeger
WILL DO .. TYPING, REASONABLE call Chuck Mason al1715. 
..... Dlelrlch & Bourjaily -;-·.:;E· i:iNLv woi.AeN·s IMPAov coM
RATES. CALL: 287-5162 LOST AT MARDi GRAS-A pair of cuf­
NEED -FiioE i-ioMe TO FLORIDA FOR Chris Quinn may be a sophomore In his Touhy, McConnel, & Johansen EDY GROUP I he outcBsls 
BREAK. Call David 287-6986 own mind, bul he's only a freshman, our second date and a Hoosier allhat. Mary Frances and Kink,INSTANT CASH PAID FOR CLASS flinks w1th great sentimental value and 
RINGS $20-$85 OR MORE. WE MAKE lillie maleriB I value. Each one had a fis­Do you ever read lhese? II so,
Desperately need nde 10 Phllly or stay KMK. Cav. 
HOUSE CALLS. 255-2402 herman set1n rehel. Call BOB-1476-264 Soulh Jersey lor spring break. Will Mother Mooee Nuraery Rhyme luned. HI. II'S me lh1s lime. By lhe way, ho~ share usual. Call Fran 8559. Any lime. (in lieu of Moose Joke) many "late night Qlfls" do you know?
Die-Die IMPROVE YOUR GRADES! Research 

_Lillie Moose Mullet, sal on her 1uffel .. p.s. Why doesn'l anyone ever call me I Ibid Alway•catalog-306 pages· 10,278 descriptive anymore?
NEED RiDE To aiiF=f:ALo FOR BREAK (Aw. you know the resl.) Sooner IIils11ngs-Rush $1 00 (refundable) Box JUNIOR WEEKEND IN CHICAGO 
CAN LEAVE WEDS CALL RAY 8212 Derails on the recent Moose murders
25097C. Los Angeles. 90025. (213) 477-BE THERE 1111 cHAUTAuau:.\ is c6P'.iiNi3'roN o.
lhropghout Control are coming soon. BAG THE BOOKS...slop In al lhe Three fun-loving sun worshippers Moose Control EMPTY KEG lonlght from 9pm lo lam. In que~t ol ~1de 10 DETROIT area lor DESPERATELY crave Ft. Lauderdale LIVE THIS WEEKEND Ill Superb entertamment and munchies. 
8226 AN TOSTAL 
break leaving Thurs. or Fri. Please call rays. But firs/ we needs ride/ WI/I share allhe Coffeehouse: 
MASS ASSASSIN IS COMING 
Sharla --3891 driving & expenses. Can /eave anytime. Zibbytebo Jim Stoui·Mike Gorecki LOW ON s$$ ????'l-t;~~ enjoy superblimlied no ol players Nobody Is uglier lhan Jell Jeffers.
If travelling that way. please call Molly, Hard Folk Rock & Bluegrass enterlalnmenl al no charge.. THEs1gn ups--Sun.. March 6 
8 30-10 30 p.m 
I DESPERATELY NEED A RIDE TO Hannah or Ellery at BOOB. EMPTY KEG In SMC's Clubhouse. NEW HAVEN, CT FOR SPRING BREAK. PROFOAUMOC Tonighllrom 9pm lo lam.
OPEN A DOOR TO SLF Lafortune Ballroom 
OPEN A DOOR TO SLF $3 lee (alaign up) 
CAN LEAVE ANYTIME. WILL SHARE N~~;;-;i;;~-t~-8~;~~~· ;~; ~;;r;~-g·;;;~~k~ OPEN A DOOR TO SLF 
DRIVING AND EXPENSES. PLEASE Will share expenses elc., call Jill al41-COFFEEHOUSE GLEET CALL HEATHER AT 8232. COFFEEHOUSE
OPEN A DOOR TO SLF NOW TAKING APPLICATIONS FOR 
4960 Disgusting, gel a new wordI What's 
every nighllhis week FOOD AND COCKTAIL WAITRESSES: 
COFFEEHOUSE one ol Gerry's kids doing with a BearLOVELEY is not !IIIII PETE LOVELEY

NEED Fiioii--ro PHILADELPHIA oR Need nde to New York cily for spring COFFEEHOUSE Bryant hat.
WAITERS, HOSTESS, AND CASHIER. 
lorUMOC.

DELAWARE AREAII LEAVE AFTER break, will share expenses etc.. call VlgilanleaWOULD LIKE EMPLOYEES WILLING 
111h ANYTIME. CALL ALISON 8139 Janice at41-4960 LaForlune Sludenl Colleehouse
TO STAY THROUGH THE SUMMER. Gnomes, 
GRAND OPENING FRIDAY Ill B~ddh~.-ciau~. Dan, Dave, Kevin, andAPPLY IN PERSON CAPTAIN ALEXAN­Need nde 10 Tampa. FL or surrround­N·;;;;· ;ide lo PHILADELPHIA OR Don't tell Jane, but secrelly I lusl af­
DER'S MOONAAKEA,3-5 PM WEEK­
Mike... mgarealor 1 or2 girls Call Mary al4945 SOUTH JERSEY. call8114. ZIBBYTEBO Thank you lor lhe great n~ghl wilh
ler your being with a passion unknown DAYS.300 E COLFAX DO NOT CALLI 
in lhis seclor ol I he galaxy. Run away
SMC. ZIBBYTEBO our parents. They think as much ol you
wilh me lo the Andorian syslem and I
Need a ride or riders to Columbus or ZIBBYTEBO as we do...
THE OUTCASTS PRESENT 
N~ed~d Ride i~ A~slln or San Antonia. Cenlral Ohio lor Spring Break? The promise a life filled with misadventure, This weekend in I he Coffeehouse. You're I he best! 
our second date" 
romance. and silicon chips. So what Ill special guesls. THE EMMANUEL 
Tx. for Spring Break. Call Carole 41-Columbus Area Ride Board will al­T abies 88,58,59 
get this way just once every seven
4875 or Kalhy 41-4782. tempt to match those with room with Dakness on the edge ol
SINGERS 
years? See you over break, my little WALSH HALL MARCH 7, 8 PM 
I hose who need rides. To sign up for a campus .... ASSASSINS is comingIIIII ATIENTIONI 
Need nders 10 U. ol Vlrgm1a or vicinity nde or to offer a ride, cai1Jamieat1336. tn Tired ol wearing s1ze 34 jeans?
$2 admiSSIOn 
tim
for3-12 or3-13. Ca11John3651 okSUDDENLY.SuzyandTomare back Aacared 10 wear a Bikini? When cross­
logether again. Ing lhe street In a yellow dress doPTY KEG.. THE EMPTY KEG. THE 
Whal will you do? EMPTY KEG. relurns lo lhe SMC 
N~~d ;,;;e;; ;·;~~ Bo~lon lo NO afler Need Ride To North Carolina, people yell "Taxi?" Got more chins
What will you do? Clubhouse tonight from 9 pm lo I am.. 
break. Ca11John3651. Anywhere Near Chariolle Can Leave 3-Harpe lor UMOC! When he was a child lhan a Chinese phone book? Do you 12 Or Alter. Cai1277-3579. his molher had to lie a porkchop sweat much for a Fat girl? Are you a 5EMPTY KEG THE EMPTY KEG. THE 
PLEASE HELP MElli I need a ride loAI· around his neck so lhe dog would play 
who would like to be a "IO?"Orarayou lanla lor spnng break. Will share ~-~~-d~~~i mg.~-~~-~-~·k· ~-~A~~~;~: ·r~ ~~~--~~~ HI, JEAN ... Wllhh1mll ;uat a slone lox who wanls 10 get In dnvmg and gas! Please call LUKE al EMPTY KEG 
break. Will haul luggage, etc. to Texas shape? Well-come lo "AEOAOBIC
... and Louie I 

4339. or any pomt along the way. CALL RC Groucho and Chicoagree: 'HARPO lor EXERCISE-DANCE" Angela (SMC) 
............................ ....... .. UMOC"
1738-1758. MON-WED-FRI 3-4 pm For more info NEED 1 RIDER TO FLORIDA-Tampa 
IFvi:iu't:iv!i iN NEw oRLEANs. HAVE 
call x4674 Mary Rose (Instructor)

ILOST/FOUND I 
BEEN IN NEW ORLEANS. OR JUST
Bay area. Share In exp. lor ran led car NE'E:o··RIDE FoR .2..ro·cLE·ve-c,~..N·o~ Harpo--the missing link--Yes, it's YOU Guaranleed FUN TIME III (Its free tool) Call Nancyat8145 or Maureen at4678 Harpe
WISH YOU WERE IN NEW ORLEANS CAN LEAVE FFUDAY:WILL SHARE THEN COME TO THE NEW ORLEANS 
USUAL-CALL JOHN AT 3008 PTY KEG ... THE EMPTY KEG... THE
LOST -Camera-Wednesday February CLUB'S FIRST ANNUAL MARDI
DESPERATE 2OR 3 NEED RIDE TC An Tostal presenls: 
EMPTY KEG.. returns lo lhe SMC

25 Please call277-7695 Desparalel GRAS(no gambling, this is the real
LAUDERDALE AREA FOR BREAK DESPERATELY NEED RIDE TO N.J.­MASS ASSASIN Clubhouse lonlghl Irom 9pm to 1 am ..
lhing) BALL TO BE HELD THIS
LEAVE ANYTIME AND WILL SHARE WILL PAY USUAL. CALL JOHN AT 1818 1 W11i you be one ollhe512? EMPTY KEG THE EMPTY KEG ... THE
LOST. GREEN NURSING NOTEBOOK FRIDAY. FOR MORE INFO CONTACT
USUAL...CALL PAUL(324\) OR OR FRANK AT 3030 Sign up: Sunday, March6 EMPTY KEG 
N 203 O'SHAUGHNESSY ON TUES­MIKE 8710 OR JOHN 8714 NO LATER 
MARK(3243) When:B:30-10:30 p.m. 
pAY. PLEASE CALL 4486 (SMC) OR THAN THURSDAY. 
NEED 2RIDES TO HOUSTON AREA· Where: La Fortune Ballroom Kalle,~ETUAN TO N.D. LOST & FOUND. 
SHARE USUAL-CAN LEAVE AFTER Run: March23 unlll An Tostal What did I do, ma'am? I'm so
HEY..ADELLE BURTON! HAPPY 19th
11AM ON 13THMARCH.CALL3049 Fee ol$3 includes gun and MASSIVE confused! Maybe you could try and ex­
Loll on 2-22 in Angela one Sp1del gold BIRTHDAY Ill LOVE, CLEM 
....... PARTY... day alter break. Be a Mass As­plain illo me
walch. II found, please call 4332 . ............................. 
sassin II II
1 NEED RIDE FOR ONE RETURNING Str
TICKETS

Reward SENIOR FORMAL REGISTRATION FROM FT. LAUDERDALE FOR SPRING SENIOR FORMAL REGISTRATION 
BREAK. CALL 1161. TO TOBY THE MR. AMERICA jiJ'sT TWO DAYS AND COUNTING UN· LOST Notebook lalt m Malh Bldg alter REJECT! II I LOVE YOU PASSIONATE­
Need 2 DePaul fix badly. Money no ob-TIL THE DIRTBALL BRIGADE
B1o leal Tuesday Return lo 305 Sorln RTH'I'SWEEK ONLY! THIS WEEK ON­
1ecl Call Rob 4443 NEED RIDE TO INDY ON MARCH 6. LVIII THIS WEEKEND WILL BE GREAT, ATIACKS RUSH STREETIIII HEYor call8542 
CALL CHRIS· 1629. 

Need a ride? Lost a love? 
?

Wanta . . . . THEN-Buy Observer Classifieds * ONLY 10 CENTS PER *
* 
*
* *
* *
* SEVEN CHARACTERS! *
* *
* * 
LVI 

AND BREAK TOOill LIFE IS EX­
DIGGER, ARE YOU AEALL Y BUYING? 
.............................. 

CLAMATORYIII FROM THE ROVING ---Lalorlune and LeMans--­
DAY EDITOR I! I Badm w1shes lhe besl lor all I he QlfiS ---11 :30 lo 1:00 --­
...................................... 
born In the llrsl week ol March. Happy 

...........................,............... Margarel -Happy Holiday XI We love 
Birthday lo: MAUREEN CONOLLY,DON.'T MISS THE CELEBRATION! 

you to pieces. have a great weekend 
MAUA EAKINS, BENIE (JK) CAFAREL­with yourr honey! M & J 
LI, RENEE AADY, DARA O'MALLEY.

ONLY TWO MORE DAYS LEFT! 
KATHRYN MATHEWS. LONG JOHN DON AND TAAA...WE COULD NOT 
CRUDO. and MARY LINK Have a greatPANiCIPANiCIPANICI 

HAVE PUT BETIER PEOPLE IN yearIllOnly lwo days lelll(and lhal includes 
OFFICE. GOOD LUCK NEXT YEAR. WE todayI) 
LOVEDON'SHAT. 
Found al last Ill The missmg link from ancien! CAMPBELLontalll R1ghl hereRUN !RUN !RUN I hi eddie o at Noire Dame... the only one ol hisASKIASKIASKI kindlll OTIS CAMPBELL..OTIS

BUYIBUYIBUYI DEAR MEGAN GET A GRIP ON 

CAMPBELL...OTIS CAMPBELL...OTIS REALITYill TAKE IT EASY AND DON'T 
CAMPBELL OTIS lorTOMORROW IS THE LAST DAY! 

GET NERVOUS II! LOVE YOU LOTS II! 
UMOC...REMEMBER: Otis IS lheABANDON INHIBITIONSII GROTESTIII ASK !ASK !ASK I 

DETROIT CLUB PARTY 

4:00 CAMPUS VIEW APT. 302 54585 Jell Jeffers is so ugly, he doesn'l evenLOOKING FOR RiDERS TO KG FOR 
IRISHWAY BRING A FRIEND NO 
deserve UMOC. 

SPRING BREAK. MUST SHARE 
CHARGE DRIVING, GAS AND MAJOR REPAIRS. 
TO THE FOXES IN 2 SOUTH (ALSOCALL DR. CHUCK TYLER AT THE PINE 

Aboultime we see ya In north, anyway, 
KNOWN AS THE SHE-WOLVES ANDVALLEY HOSPITAL AT 3319. 

K.D. 
THE SCREAMERS). 

THE SEX-DEVILS ARE COMING! JOANIE McCURDY FOR UMOC DROP Thorn, apology accepted, apology 
SOONER THAN YOU THINK I 

OFF DONATIONS AT 311 B.P. JOAN g1ven. 
THE STUDS OF 452 WILL MAKE YOU GROAN 

Maureen CHRIS CALLAHAN. 

ATIENTION NO AND SMC WOMEN Tom Kovacevic ARE GODDESSES SUPPOSED TO 
Especially Kathy, Kalhy, Cathy. Cathy, Paler Lochleleid Elisa Dation 
DROP THEIR TRAYS IN THE Calhy, and Cathy. Today Is TJ"s 21sl Brauw1eier, Dressel, Ell1s, Hunkler. & CAFETERIA? KLUTZY,KLUTZYI WE birthday, come and give him all lhe Tranel 
FORGIVE YOU I 

birlhday kisses he deserves. 
WHAT DO ALL THESE PEOPLE HAVE 
THE FOURTH FLOOR IN COMMON? SEE THEM IN THE NAZZ Tom "Like A Date" Jensen. 
MUSIC COMPETITION, FRIDAY, Bernie, Beth, and Margie,Happy21sl Birlhdayll MARCH61111 
Maybe II we slop all lalklng at lha P.S. Congraluiallons for gelling R.A. 

same lime al our Sunday night 

Ray, to a blond Adonis, Didn't "sharing sessions" we will be able lo .;;o-rii Boa SPANN FOR uMoc He·s 
Aphrodite leach you anylhing? Prove It effectively coordinate our lhoughtSO UGLY. HE CAN BURN OUT COM­
at 306. Love con, mo. and les. Happy processes and accomplish our goals.PUTERS BY LOOKING AT THEM Blrlhday. 
Our group interactton leaves some-­BOB SPANN UMOC 
whal lo be daalred Through inlerna BOB SPANN UMOC 
Good Yemc 19 years old and already aaaessmenl, I have dalermined lhal In BOB SPANN UMOC 
pasl your peak. I expecled MI. Saini order to sulllclenlly uae our leadertlhlp BOB SPANN UMOC Helena, and alii gol was CRATER LAKE abilities we must do more planningBOB SPANN UMOC . For Mountain Climbing lessons come through group communication. In on over. love Connie. P.S. Happy 
other words, GET A REAL LIFE I Bernie, 

SPEEDY· Birthday! 
please lranslaleto these non-Business Do you always like "fast" dales? How 
··············· ................................................ Policy people! 
aboul lhe EAST BANK this weekend? Scrib now it is only one more day, are CJ 
The Torloise you excited! 

r--1___ 
Thursday, March 5, 1981 ~page 12

! ----S}Jorts 
~---·-­
----~----------------------------------------------------------------------­

Bouts set for finals 
By SKIP DESJARDIN come to life after he began to bleed, pound division last night. Mike Mul­Sports Writer and finally opened a small cut on ligan of Omaha, who had his jaw Conaghan's face with a fierce flurry broken in last year's bouts, posted a Last night's action in the 2 I st addi­in the third round. very impressive win over Paul tion of the Notre Dame Boxing A pair of unanimous semi-final Durba. Mulligan will next have to Club's Bengal Bouts ended with the winners will square off in t'le finals put his technical boxing skills to stage set for this Saturday's finals. of the 14 5 pound weight class. Dan work against another technical 
Five 1980 champions successfully Mohan knocked his opponent, Mike fighter, John Donovan. defended their crowns in semi-final Doyle,. down early in the first and Donovan earned a shot at the fights at the ACC last night. coasted the rest of the way to win. championship with a win over 
Rob Rivera of Santa Fe, New Tom Bush won the other final berth graduate student Hugh Griffith. Mexico, pound for pound probably by overcoming a third round flurry In the 15 7 pound weight class, last the best fighter in this year's event, from Steve Sierawski. 
night saw two of the more interest-opened the card last night with a Unanimous decisions were also 
See BOUTS, page 10

knock-out of Bob Titzer at I :25 of the order of the night in the 150 the second round of the 132 lb. class. 
Rivera will face sophomore Tim Broderick of Pittsburgh in the finals. Broderick earned the title shot with a unanimous decision over South 
N etters exemplify teamwork 

Bend's Bryan Bergin. Broderick's persistent left jab kept Bergin at bay throughout the fight, much to the dismay of the local fighter's vocal supporters. 
In the 140 pound division, Chat­tanooga's Fritz Fisher slugged out a unanimous decision over Mike Ruwe to advance to the finals. Fisher will meet Mike Martersteck, who overcame an extremely bloody nose to gain a split decision over john Conaghan. Martersteck seemed to 
team, n. a group ofpeople working or playing together, especially as one side in a contest. 
The standard lines often used to describe Notre Dame student-athletes in the so called "minor sports," all fit the guys on the Irish tennis team. Most passed up full scholarships to other schools to come here for a good

Mary D. molds team 
education. _ Most were captains oftheir high school teams. They weren't the very best high school players in the country, but they On the sidelines, Mary DiStanislao is screaming at her 
were among the best in their respective regions. 
players, exhorting them to play defense. Finally, Notre The eight players on the 1981 traveling roster come from six different Dame's Missy Conboy ties up an opponent -jump ball. states and eightdifferent tennis backgrounds. Yet the team chemistryofTom On the bench, the Notre Dame coaches shout en-­Fallon's 25th edition is truly something special, not often seen in the in­couragement. Meanwhile, Conboy jumps up and claps dividualistic world ofcollegiate tennis. her hands, tryirig unsuccessfully to suppress a wide After his team knocked offOhio State this past Saturday, Fallon had reason smile. to be prqud. The win was his frrst over his former assistant, john Daley, since 
After all, if the Irish can win this jump, they may lose 1972. But his pride did not stem from any personal accomplishment, but by 38 instead of 40. rather the way his team conducted itself during a two-day tournament in Believe it or not, this is a true story. No names were Columbus. changed, nor was it spiced up in the hopes ofincreasing "I'll'say one thing about this team," he said after a 9-0 pasting at the hands
one, or getting in on a pick-up game. Last spring. she and circulation. of 16th ranked South Carolina. "It's a together and spirited group, and that's
Maggie Lally combined with three guys to win their first
It's been that kind of a season for the Irish. In this, not very common today in college tennis. Our guys do everything together.
two games in Bookstore IX. Notre Dame's first season of Division I competition, There aren't any cliques. Ifone finishes a match early, he doesn't run to the
But right now, Conboy is caught between a rock and Mary DiStanislao has molded together a group of shower. He sticks around to cheer for his teammates. That makes you
hard place. She lacks the natural ability to be a standout 
women who came to Notre Dame for a variety of proud."
at the game she loves, and at times, it appears that reasons -academics, climate, social life, the cultural there's no end in sight. Notre Dame won't become com­The Notre Dame tennis team is perhaps the only one in the country that offerings ofSouth Bend -into a basketball team. Unfor­petitive until the Irish start getting better players. But enjoys the best of two worlds -national calibre competition without a tunately, most ofthe women Notre Dame has competed when the better players arrive, playing time for Conboy roster full ofhead cases. You see, most ofthe very best teams in the country against are at their respective schools for one reason -may become as precious as peanut butter. are made up ofself-centered, apathetic superstars who often play for a year to play basketball. For now, though, Conboy puts all of that out of her or two and then turn pro or transfer to a school that "promises a better 
The subsequent results have been a little depressing mind. More than anybody else on the squad, she is able opportunity." at times. Notre Dame has lost games by 76, 40, 35 and to maintain her enthusiasm when the only thing in This past weekend's Ohio State Quadrangular was full ofexamples of the twice by 3 I points. South Bend winters are notoriously doubt is whether the attendance or the opposition's current attitudes prevalent in collegiate tennis. 
long, but that's going a little overboard. final score will be higher. For instance, South Carolina's number six man against Notre Dame, Brian 
If there is such a thing as a silver lining in a 9-1 5 "It's just a matter of setting smaller goals for our­McDonald ofAustralia, said that this was his third school in as many years. "I season, though, Mary D. can look to the attitudes ofher , selves," she explains. "Ifwe're getting killed at halftime, get itchy feet," he explained. players. Because although they've been battling can­we go out and try to win the second half. It's hard to And as the weekend continued, the Gamecocks juggled their lineup nons with pea-shooters all season long, the Irish have explain, but I really don't have to work that hard to stay severely (like a man playing number one in one match, third in another and never quit. psyched." fourth in the next) which is somewhat unusual and in some cases, unethical. 
She can be especially proud of her veterans. A year The 5-8 junior forward also has had to deal with per­"The coach has to do that down there," explained Wisconsin's coach, Denny ago, basketball was something they did for fun -and haps the ultimate trauma to a basketball player's ego -Schackter, "because he's dealing with so many egos. He can't please they were pretty good at it. As a hobby, the 1979-80 a signifigantly reduced scoring average. As Notre everybody by letting them all play number one, but he sure has to try." Irish wound up among the nation's top 16 Division Ill Dame's supersub last season, Conboy averaged 6.5 1 In contrast. when Fallon opted to put the well-rested Tom Robison in the basketball teams. Included on last winter's roster were points per game. This year, although a starter, she starting lineup against Ohio State in place ofTim Noonan who had lost twice three honor students in Notre Dame's pre-medical scores just 2.5 points per game. the night before, there were no hard feelings-just a few comforting pats on program. "I try not to let that bother me, because I know that the back from teammates for both Robison and Noonan with a "whatever's 
All of a sudden. though, organic chemistry and biol­best for the team" attitude.
there are other ways I am contributing," she says. "My ogy don't take precedence in these girls' lives. Boxing role this year isn't to shoot the ball -I'm supposed to Friday night's loss to the Gamecocks was a case study of what is happen­out, zone defenses, and 30-second clocks do. set picks and make good passes. People who only look ing. Their lineup against the Irish listed hometowns in places like Yugoslavia, 
For the seniors. 1980-81 can be chalked up as a novel at your scoring average to see how good ofa player you Australia, Sweden and Brazil. It was nothing but a collection ofinternational experience. They tasted success on the Division III are just aren't that knowledgable about basketball, and tournament stars who had no due as to how to conduct themselves during a level, and tasted a year ofthe Division I big time. But for team contest.
you just have to try to remember that." those who will he back, or more correctly, those who Conboy can take some consolation in that her selfless "At major tournaments, these guys don't have to worry about the racquet hope to be back, it's a different situation. attitude doesn't go unnoticed among team members. spin to see whoserves first or about making line calls," said one coach. "They 
On one hand, they're still playing for fun. There are "A lot of times the freshmen will come up to me and have all ofthat taken care offor them. Then they get out here in a dual match 
no scholarships -only hardships. The present, with say, 'When you get excited on the floor, it gets us fired­situation, and they get downright obnoxious." double-digit losses coming with dismal regularity, is no up,' and that's good to hear. "I've always told our guys that throwing your racquet and yelling picnic. The future, by comparison, may be a breadline. "And the coaches are great," she says. "When you do obscenities on the court doesn't help you," said Fallon. "It only hurts you. 
DiStanislao and her staff have already signed three something right in a game or practice, no matter how Everyone gets frustrated or mad at himself once in a while. Our players do, blue-chip high school players for 1980-81, and are hot small it is, you know they'll notice it -they don't miss a too. But some people carry it too far. I'm more proud ofour guys when I see in pursuit in of two more. While the Notre Dame thing. That helps a lot." their opponents trying to rattle them by carrying on." program may he making tremendous strides, veterans Right now, Missy Conboy is doing her best to help a Against Miami (Ohio), Notre Dame's Jim Falvey, known for his honesty like Missy Conboy may be caught on a treadmill. lot -whatever way she can. There are no guarantees, and gentlemanly conduct on the court, made a few close line calls that his 
Missy Conboy takes her basketball seriously. During but she just clings to the hope that she'll be around opponent ~asn't at all pleased with. Miami's Steve Isleib yelled at Falvey on the spring and fall, you can find her on the floor of the when those jump balls start to mean somethin .g on the more than one occasion and when the match was over, refused to go to th1· Rock, challenging one of the guys to a game ofone-on-scoreboard. 
See NETfERS, page 10 

_,..____ 









