. Strip Searches page7 
• 
Gipp's farewell 
Missing Rockne filtn appears 
By TIM PETIERS film from the 1932 game with a play­read "Notre Dame Campus","Notrc News Staff by-play soundtrack. Previously, the Dame Glee Club 1920's", and Sports and Games Collection did not "Dedication of a Building." For that 
The International Sports and have any game films prior to 1934, reason, the films arc being stored Games Collection of the Memorial except for five minutes of the 1926 temporarily in the Sports and Games Lihrary recently discovered 91 reels game with Southern California. Collection until the University of movie film which had been for­"We're excited about these films," decides where they should be kept. gotten for many years. According to said Juliano, "because, for example, Thirty-four cans of the film could Herhert Juliano, the director of the we didn't use to have any game films not be identified before they were <:ollection, these films include Notre of Moose Krause, who played in '32, sent to New York. Some others were Dame football game films dating '33, and '34. We didn't have many not labeled well enough to hack to I930, and also a complete, films at all from the 1930s before we determine exactly what they con­unedited print ofthe motion picture found these." tain. Juliano remarked, "I can't wait 
Knute Rockne, All-American. Some of the films are not sports to see what these other films could 
Juliano recounted that for many related. Several of the film labels be." years the University kept the films under the football stadium. They were moved to a local warehouse for safety reasons, where they 

Takamatsu High Court 
remained until the warehouse owner relocated six months ago. In taking his inventory, he found these 
upholds death sentence 
films, and calledJuliano to ask him to take the films. 
TOKYO (AP) -The court­sons. Critics say prosecutors don't These reels are made of 3S mil­
ordered retrial of a convicted m.ur­want to admit past errors for fear of limeter nitrate film, highly flam­dcrer who has lived three decades losing face. mahlc and hazardous to store. The 
on Japan's Death Row has revived a The Justice Ministry has also University stored the films in a room 
drive to curb police and resisted pressure to overhaul the in the Radiation Research Building 
prosecutorial powers left over from retrial procedure, but the Taniguchi at a constant temperature once they the post World. War II occupation. case could force the issue into the wt·re returned. Father Joyce came open. Already the order for up with $10,000 to pay for the films 
Taniguchi's retrial has won praise to be converted to -16 millimeter 
from major newspapers. The Asahi safety film, and contracted Guffantl Shimbun said, "It is now necessary l.ahoritories in New York to convert to take into account the trend them. shown by the judgment and recon­Tht· first converted films came sider wholly this legal system of the
·.
hack from New York last week past."
The High Court of Takamatsu, a
according toJuliano, and there were Lorret Ruppe, head ofthe Peace Corps, spoke on the importance of
city in western Japan, has uphel~ a See JAPAN, page4
a few surprises. The batch included a the Peace Corps yesterday. (photo by Anne Fink)
1979 district court decision order­print from Knute Rockne, All­ing a new trial for Shigeyoshi
American. When Juliano inspected 
Taniguchi, 50, who was sentence.d 
the film, ht· found that it contained 
Election today
to death in 1951.
several scenes that had heen The Takamatsu prosecutor'srt·movl·d from the movie. 
office decided last week not to ap­The print includes Ronald peal the ruling. Taniguchi thusReagan's deathbed scene as George 
Students nominateFellows
becomes the second Death RowGipp, and Pat O'Brien's "Win One inmate in modern Japanese historyfor the Gipper" speech as Rockne. 
Below is a list of I 5 Senior Fellow candidates who According to a recent Issue ofSports to win a retrial. No date for the new 
show, The Phil Donahue Show. 
were nomina,ed by the senior class. The final vote will
trial has been set.
Illustrated, Warner Brothers 6) Rev. john Dunne, C.S.C. -Notre Dame's resident 
Libertarians have complained for be held today during lunch at LaFortune and at lunch 
removt·d the scenes when they sold theologian, Rev. Dunne's numerous contrihutions to
and dinner in the dining halls. Seniors, don't forget to
years that powers given to Japanese
the movie for television. religious philosohy have earned him the respect and
vote!
authorities In the postwar overhaul
Juliano also found all four quarters admiration of oth his colleagues and students. After 
of the country's laws, especially the
of the game films from the 1930 1) Rev. Thomas Blantz, C.S.C. -Father Blantz is an receiving his doctorate in Rome, he returned to Notre Notre Dame/Southern California power to block the reopening of associate professor and chairman ofthe History Depart­Dame in 1957 to write and teach. His persistent in­criminal cases, led to abuses of the 
ment. He entered Holy Cross Seminary in 1948, made rights ofaccused and convicted per-game, and one quarter of the game quiries and examinations of life and its meaning have 
his final profession at Moreau Seminary in 1956, and made Fr. Dunne a living testament to spiritual and intel­was ordained in 1960. He is a Fellow of the University lctualliberation. and sits on Notre Dame's Board of Trustees. In past 7) Geny Faust -Head coach of Moeller lligh School years, Rev. Blantz has served as an archivist and vice­for 18 years, Faust is Notre Dame's new head foothall


County ABC postpones 
president ofStudent Affairs. coach. The 45-year-old Faust compiled an outstanding 
2) Robert "Rocky" Bleier -Rocky was captain of the record of 173 wins, 17 losses and 2 ties during his years 1967 national championship football team at Notre at Moeller. A dynamic speaker and a highly acclaimed

Corby's license hearing 

Dame before graduating from the University the follow­lecturer, Faust merited all-state honors as a quarterhack ing year. In 1969, Bleier was drafted by the Army and as at Chaminade High School in Dayton, Ohio. He also a result of military action in Vietnam suffered extensive earned 3 letters as quarterback at University of Dayton.
By TOM KOEGEL appearance would not be necessary. SeniorStaffReporter Upon investigation by excise of­wounds in both legs. After much determinatin, he 8) Rev. john Fitzgerald, C.S.C. -A native of Chicago, ficer John Clark, the board found rejoined the Pittsburgh Steelers and became a regular Fr. Fitzgerald entered the Holy Cross novitiate in !96'S. The St. joseph County Alcoholic that the state had accidentally starter in 1974. In 1965, he received his bachelor's degree from Notre Beverage Commission yesterday mailed such a notice to CTI. The 
3) Elizabeth Christman -·An associate professor in Dame and in 1968 he carne t d his master's in theology American Studies, Ms. Christman was employed as a from Holy Cross University in Washington, D.C. Or­
postponed a hearing on a renewal of hoard postponed the hearing until Corby Tavern's license until April Aprlll5. 

literary agent for Harold Ober Association before dained in 1968, Rev. Fitzgerald is acting director of the 
15. The ABC meeting was attended Corby's Is alrc~ady an joining the Notre Dame faculy in 1976. At the age ofSO, Campus Ministry.
facing In­she began to work toward her masters degr<;e at New 9)Rev. Robert Griffin,.C.S.C. -Fr. Griffin has been the
hy approximately 2S Northeast dianapolis hearing on April 6th in Neighborhood residents who signed regard to liquor law violations in the York University and, upon completion, achieved her llniversity Chaplain at Notre Dame-since 1974. Before a remonstrance against the renewal Jan. 30, 1981 arrests of eight St. 
doctorate. Prof. Christman is the author of A Nice this he was an assistant rector at Keenan Hall and a of the license to the CTI Corp. the Mary's College women for underage Italian Girl which was later made into a TVimovie en­member ofthe Campus Ministry staff. The author oftwo operator ofCorby's. drinking. The Northeast Neigh­titled Black Market Baby. She ;tlso has written Flesh inspirational books and a regular columnist in student Yt·sterday's meeting was intended residents by and Spirit and Broken Family, a novel to be released in and alumni puhlications, he is a 1949 graduate of Notre
borhood were led as a review of CTJ's renewal of their Deputy City Attorney james Mas­June. ' Dame. As an Eastern Province Holy Cross priest he alcoholic beverage license, hut the 4 )Dan Devine -As head football coach at Notre Dame divides his ministry between the students of Notre
ters, who demanded that the ABC from 1975 to 1980, Devine led his team to a national Dame and the denizens of Times Square in New York
ABC postponed the meeting when take into account both pending championship in '77. Before coming to the University, City.
Cfl lawyer Thomas Anton notified violations hefore the state commis­tht· Commission that the owners of sion and other evidence. He stated 

he served as head football coach at Arizona State, the IO)Emi/ T. Hofman -A native of Paterson, New Jer-University of Missouri and the Green Bay Packers. His sey, Prof Hofman graduated from Notrt· Dame in 19'53 -­
Corhy's had not heen informed of that the local ABC has "the duty and work with Easter Seals and .the Muscular Dystrohy before joning the University staff that same year. Since
the hoard's proceedings. Anton also the ohligation" to take into account repeatedly emphasi7.ed that Corhy's all evidence -including police 

Foundation has earned him much respect. that time, he has served in several faculty positions, had heen notified hy computerized 
'i)Phil Donahue-Agraduate of Notre Dame in 1957, 
See FELLOWS, page4

See CORBY, page 8 Donahue Is currently the popular host ofhis television letter from the state ABC that their 

VOL. XV, NO. 1 14 an independent srudent newspaper serving notre dame and saint mary's THURSDAY, MARCH 26, 1981 


• 


News Brie/§ './ 
Thursday, March 26, 1981 -page 2 
~==~======~==============================~ 
by The Observer and The Associated Press 
Joseph P. Mulligan, executive director of Notre Dame's Alumni Association, has been named regional director of development for the University in Chicago, responsible for a nine­state area. Mulligan will be returning to a position he held from 1973 to 1975, before moving to Los Angeles to direct development ac­tivities in 11 western states. Dr. James W. Frick, vice president for public relations, alumni affairs and development at Notre Dame, said the change was made because of "the crucial importance of Chicago to the long-range development plans ofthe University and the neces­sity to have an experienced representative in residence in the city." In recent years, the Chicago office has been staffed by regional directors commuting from South Bend. Mulligan, 43, graduated from Notre Dame in 1959 and worked in the University's admissions office before entering development work. John N. Cackley, who served as ex­ecutive director of the association from 1975 to 1980 and had remained on its staff, will serve as acting director. -The Observer 
The chairman of the House Ways and Means 
Committee. pronounced President Reagan's three-year tax cut all but dead on yesterday and urged Republicans to draft a "consensus" al­ternative with just a one-year reduction. But while Rep. Daniel Ros­tenkowski, D-Ill., predicted the committee would pass a more limited package of its own design, 20 Senate Republicans appealed to Reagan to "promise now to veto any tax bill" stripped of he across-the-board reductions of 30 percent over three years. Rostenkowski said his panel would commit itself to reviewing a need for tax cuts in future years, but its legislation "would be a one-year bill." Treasury Secretary Donald Reagan later told reporters that talk of a possible veto of any alternative bill is premature, since he believes the administration's approach still has a chance at passage. "That bill is far from dead in our opinion," he said, and termed,Rostenkowski's comments "most unfor­tunate." Asked about assertidns the administration lacks the votes to pass the bill, he said, "We're counting the votes out there somewhere west of the Potomac," a reference to repeated administration claims that the public supports the president. -AP 
Merchants in ·Nashville, Mich. fed up with taxes decked themselves in black ribbons yesterday, took to the streets and shuttered their shops, declaring small business has had enough. "We're gonna show big government we're tired of this," declared Ahmo Jqrdan, vice president of the Chamber of Commerce and or­ganizer of the one-day protest. "We closed 53 of 58 (businesses) for the day," Jordan said proudly, and among the ranks ofthe closed shops W¥ his Country Corner Farm Markets. The aim of "Tax Strike Day," Jordan said, was to call attention to Michigan taxes, which he said are killing the business climate. The protest in the southern Michigan village of about 1,600 people, about 120 miles west-northwest of Detroit, was sparked by proposed increases in assessments that, in some cases, would double property taxes. The higher assessments resulted from strict enforcement by local assessors of a state law requiring that property be assessed at 50 percent ofits market value, said PhyllisJackson, an equalization director. -AP 
A member of President Reagan's "Kitchen 
Cabinet" solicited donations from executives and investors in the oil instry last month to help redecorate the White House living quarters, and, says an ai, "the response was phenomenat'at SlO,OOO a shot." The drive by Reagan confidante Holmes Tuttle came just four weeks after the president decontrolled oil prices -a decision worth $2 billion to the oil industry, according to an Energy Department estimate. Accord­ing to several donors, Tuttle, a millionaire California auto dealer, held receptions in Oklahoma City anHouston that were attended by Reagan supporters __:_ many with oil interests. Twenty-three in­dividuals associated with the oil industry contributed a total of $270,000 to the White House Historical Association redecorating fund. That amount alone exceeded the $200,000 goal set by first lady Nancy Reagan. As of March 12, the project had raised an overall total of $735,912. -AP· ' 
Solidarity leader Lech Walesa reportedsome progress yesterday in talks aimed at averting nationwide strikes that have raised fears of civil war and intervention by Soviet-led forces. He said talks with the government would resume today. ·:There would be no talks tomorrow without results today," Walesa said with a smile yesterday. He did not elaborate on his 90-minute meeting with Mieczyslaw Rakowski, the deputy premier for union affairs, but the view of progress was confirmed ..i,n a separate statement by another union leader, Andrzej Gwiazda. Walesa also expressed optimism before the talks, but he did not rule strikes out, his independent union stepped up demands and Warsaw television showed another two minutes offilm yesterday night on the Warsaw Pact's current spring military 
maneuvers in Poland and surrounding Soviet-bloc states. Meanwhile, panic buying of food and a ban on alcohol sales were reported here. Solidarity chapters began moving their headquarters into factories for better safety and organization and branches ofa students' association declared they would strike ifthe union did. -AP 
How much do you knowabout your world? Not much, ifyou are a college student, at least according to a recent Educa­tional Testing Service survey. The national study put 101 questions Bn international issues to groups of freshmen and seniors at four-year colleges and to two-year college students. Less than 10 percent ofthe freshmen and two-year students and less than 15 percent of the seniors could answer two-thirds ofthe questions correctly. Although seniors did slightly better than freshmen and two-year students, all of those surveyed had a common body ofknowledge, says Steve Klein of ETS. Questions on religion and American or world history proved particularly difficult, he says, while health questions were most often correctly answered. Education majors ranked lowest on the spectrum, while history majors, math and engineering students topped the list. -The Observer 
Cloudy with a slightchance of showers today. High near 60. Partly cloudy tonight and tomorrow. Lows tonight in the upper 30s. A little warmer tomorrow with highs in the low 60s. -AP 
) 
\ 


Enquirer-ing for truth 

There was no clowning around last ~eek when Carol Burnett took the witness stanQ in her case against the weekly tabloid the National Enquirer. Ms. Burnett is suing the publication for its depiction ofher seemingl-y drunken behavior in a Washington restaurant. 
The magazine subsequently retracted the item, which said Ms. Burnett "had a loud argument with an­other diner -Henry Kissinger. Then she traipsed around the place offering everyone a bit ofher dessert" and "accidentally knocked a glass of wine over one diner and started giggling." 
But the dispute did not end with the Enquirer's ad­mission that these "events did not occur." Ms. Burnett, whose parents both died of alcoholism, determined that theEnquirer should be made to pay to the tune of $1 0 million for the personal anguish she suffered. Six other suits are also pending against the magazine, brought by such big Hollywood names as Phil Silvers, Paul Lynde, Ed McMahon an\t the husband and wife team ofMarty Ingels and Shirley Jones. 
On ABC's Nightline last week, Ingels applauded Ms. 
Burnett's courage for being the first to get her case 
heard before a jury. The difficulty in proving a libel 
charge, he said, was that the person bringing the suit 
had to prove that the editors knew the article was false 
and maliciously printed it regardless ofits inaccuracy. 
· The First Amendment, which guarantees freedom of the press, ensures that very few restrictions are placed on a publication prior to the day it hits the market. In other words, even though Marty Ingels had barraged the Enquirer's office for months before the article about him aAd his wife was published, he could take no legal action before the fact. 
The celebrities in these cases do not advocate the abolition of the First Amendment. They do kel, however, that the sensationalist publications should show some responsibility for what they print. There can be no denying that sensationalism sells newspapers and magazines-theEnquirer alone has a circulation of5.1 million. 
The implications of this case do loom large for even the most circumspect ofpublications. Ubel is always a great worry for any newspaper-even the "cub" repor­ter knows to qualify the words murderer, rapist, thief, etc., with the words alleged, accused, convicted, confessed, etc.· · 
Many times a newspaper is forced to go to press with a story that is substantiated by only a few -perhaps anonymous -sources. The protection supplied by the First Amendment is imperative to the survival of newspapers, for without it the newspapers would have to take an adversarial.stance: "this is true, and we can prove it, see?" and the story would continue, bogged down with a step-by-step proof. Such a careful outline of the structure can only serve to highlight any struc­tural weaknesses it contains, and the story would come crashing down around the readers and the publishers­alike. -Well, that would be life with a carefully regulated press. 
The judge in the Burnet~ case, Peter Smith, ruled that theEnquirer is a magazine, and not a newspaper as the attorneys for the tabloid tried to prove. This is sig­nificant in that a newspaper cannot be labeled libelous ifit prints a speedy retraction. The courts assume that a magazine, on the other hand, lacks the time restrictions that make additional research into a story impossible. A magazine is required by law to get it right the first time. 
As many people have noted, the case comes at a cru­cial time for the printed word. The growth ofthe sensa­tional press throughout the late 70s and into the 80s has been nothing short of phenomenal. Take, for instance, the track record ofnewspaper tycoon Rupert Murdoch. He owns the New York Post and the London Times to name a few, and his empire has yet to reach its zenith. 
TV is not exempt. At least once a week, it seems, a bloody corpse or two find their way onto the six o'clock news. And'look at the number oftimes we saw the jolly Prince Charles fall off his horse last week, or the number of times we saw Lady Di, His Highness's betrothed, fall out ofher strapless evening dress. 
There is, ofcours-e, a large difference between what is true and what is fabrication. Rags like theNationalEn­quirer or the Star should not have have the readership to stay in print. But over eight million people read that trash every week. 
Carol Burnett and the other stars who plan to battle theEnquirer in court should be commended for doing their part.to loosen the tabloid's hold on the American public. It is encouraging that the case focuses on the Enquirer's lack of responsibility, rather than on its ap­parent absolute freedom to publish lies at will. The press' inherent freedom is not endangered by the suit. 
This course ofevents does point out the importance ofresponsible journalism. The freedom promised in the First Amendment is too delicate to be toyed with, as the Enquirer so adroitly does_ Freedom carries with it the curse ofculpability -a burden that should be willingly shouldered by any respectable publication. When this burden is ignored, all credibility is lost. 
Observer notes __...., 
As a public service, The Observer publishes short press releases, better known as blurbs, submitted by campus and local organizations. All blurbs must be turned in no later than I p.m. of the afternoon prior to publication, and they must be typed and double­spaced. Blurbs, unfortunately, are not guaranteed publication, and are run only on a space available basis. The Observer alone should not be relied upon to publicize events, but to ensure some mention of your event, submit a separate entry to the Campus section ofthe paper. 
__TheDhs.enr__er 
Design Editor ................... Deirdre Murphy Design Assistants ......................... Patty Fox Kathy Crossett Tim Neely 
Layout Staff........................ Randy Rentner 
Typesetter............................... Bruce Oakley 
News Editor ...,.......................... Lynne Daley_ 
Copy Editor., ............................ Pam Degnan 
Features Layout.......................... Tim Neely 
Sports Copy Editors ............. Kelly Sullivan 
Michael Ortman 
Typist..........................................Cindyjones 
ND Day Editor ......................... Megan Boyle 
Ad Design ............................... Woody & Co. 
Pbotograpber............................... Anne Fink 
Guest Appearances ........,. The Wanderers 
Tho Observer (USPS 598 920l is published Monday through Fr{da~ except during exam and va•_:a!ion periods. The Observer Is published by the students of Notre DarM and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased far $20 per year ($10 per semester) by writing The Observer, P.O. Box 0. Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame. Indiana 
46556. 
The Obaervtr Is a member ot the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

Applications for the 1981-82 
Student Government Cabinet Positions will be made available starting 
March 24 at the Student 
)



Government Offices 

on the second floor of LaFortune. 
Must be returned by March 31... 

Thursday, March 26, 1981 -page 3

The Observer 
Catholic feminist urges Bible-based equality 
By MARIANNE MURPHY 
News Staff 
Bolding up Jesus and the Gospel mt·ssagc as the prime examples of liberation, Sr. Mary Luke Tobin spoke on the topic of "Faith and Feminism" last night at Saint Mary's Carroll Hall. 
The way Christ trcatt·d women as equals, conversing with them such as the woman at the well, was un­heard of at the time, Sr. Tobin said. "Jesus did other things that got him 
into trouble. He put persons above 
institutions. That kind of resolution 
eventually lead to his ·death," she 
stated. She also noted that it was to 
women that Christ first appeared af­
ter His resurrection. 
The gospal values of mutuality, 
wholeness and equality call women 
today to ask themselves, "How do I 
see myselfand my experience." "For 
too long women have been told who 
they arc," she continued. 
Language Is one ofthe keys to help 
bring about a changed conciousness 
and greater Inclusiveness of women 
in all spheres, Tobin said. "The 
English language is a living language 
-it must respond to people's 
needs... The language ofthe Mass has 
undergone some changes but there 
Is still a long way to go." 
The only woman in the U.S. to be invited to the Second Vatican Coun­cil as an official observer, Sr. Tobin has witnessed many dramatic changes In the Church over the years. As one of I 5 women among 2'500 bishops, she hardly helped to make a "quota," but, she writes in her recently released book, Hope is an Open Door, "it was a beginning." 
Many thresholds of hope and renewal have been crossed since 1962, by this dynamic, white-haired woman. The litany ofher activities is long and comprehensive: an ac­quaintance with Thomas Merton, the Christian poet-mystic, and his in­sights; activity in social-justice movements, Including peace mis­sions to Vietnam during tht• war; and involvement In the pcsent struggles with problems of ecnomic im­balance, multinational corporations, the subordination of women, and the nuclear threat. 
As q>ordinator of the Thomas Merton Center for Creative Ex­change In Denver, Colo., Sr. Tobin is opening doors for others of varying disciplines and professions to pursue the questions that Merton posed. "Merton makes It very clear himself, even though he was a con­templative, that in the world we live In we cannot stay isolated from the world's serious events." 
Sr. Tobin met Merton during her years as president ofher religions or­der, the Sisters ofLoretto. She served as president of the Leadership Con· ference of Women Religious from 1964 to 1967, some of the most tumultuous and critical years for religious communities. For six years, Sr. Tobin wa director of Citizen Ac­tion for Church Women United, an ecumenical group based in New 


Music Dept. presents Carpenter 
The Music Department will present William Carpcntcr, piano, in a graduate dt·grce recital Saturday, March 2H, at 2::W p.m. in thc Mt·moriall.ihrary Auditorium. 
A graduate: of thc Eastman School of Music in Rochcstcr, New York, Mr. Carpenter is a studcnt ofWillam Cerny at Notre: Dame. 
Thc rccital is opcn to the public without charge. 
York. She holds honorary doctorates from Notre Dame: and Seattle Uni­versity. 
Spicing her talk with humorous storis and anecdotes, Sr. Tobin drew laughter from a small but receptive crowd. Moving to more serious issues, she contended that nuclear disarmament is a key issue form feminists: "When more money is spent on arms, it is women and children who suffer -funds for day­care centers, women shelters, arc cut off. Because of their special closeness to life forces, women must say 'no' to nuclear war." 
Sr. Tobin urged women to "draw on Biblical images, such as moving to a promised land of wholeness, a place where all people wil be morc free, more fully human." 
Fink 

George Bush appointment lowers Haig's prestige 
WASHINGTON (AP)-President Reagan insisted yesterday that Alexander M. Haig, Jr. remains his "chiefadviser on foreign affairs," but other officials said the secretary of state clearly has lost prestige and 
authority because of Vice President 
George Bush's appointment as crisis 
manager. 
Reagan's affirmation followed a 
talk with Haig on the third con­
secutive day the secretary of state 
has visted the White House. The 
president denied any suggestion 
that Haig had threatened to· quit 
over the new role for Bush, one 
which he wanted for himself. 
But one informed official said 
privately that while Haig, who went 
public with his unhappiness on 
Tuesday, wouldn't resign this time, 
any further"public rebukes" from 
the White House might cause the 
strong-willed secretary to leave. 
Another official, who also did not want to be identified, said under the new division of responsibility Haig will lack the authority of former secretaries of state Henry Kissinger, Dean Acheson and John Foster Dulles, all of whom had respon­sibility for managing crisis in the foreign field. 
Presidential press secretaryJames Brady predicted even greater cooperation between the White House and the State Department, saying he now expects Haig to par­ticipate in Reagan's daily national security briefing. That role previous­ly has fallen to security adviser Ric­hard V. Allen, but apparently now will be shared. 

"He probably will be here most days," Brady said ofHaig. "He's there to enhance cooperation." 
Asked whether that development was merely a face-saving device for Haig, Brady declared: "I don't think Gen. Haig needs to save face." 
Bush, meanwhile, said he envi­
sions the job ofcrisis management as 
sitting in the White House situation 
room "until the president gets 
there," and foresees no conflict with 
Haig. "Secretary Haig and I get along 
very well indeed," Bush told repor· 
ters. 
Bush said Haig is "the chief ad­
viser on foreign policy, that's clear; 
he's going to be the general manager 
of that policy, that's clear; an excel­
lent secretary of state, that's very 
clear." 
Asked how he would define a 
crisis, the vice president said: "We'll 
know it when the president sees it." 
FAC announcespetitions T-shirts also on agenda 
ByJEFF CHOPPIN  reps and selected members of the  
StaffReporter  faculty with Freshman Year Dean  
Emil Hofman to evaluate the fresh­ 
The Freshman Advisory Council  man courses.  
has announced that it is sending out  The petition acknowledges that  
a petition regarding the social  there is a social problem on campus.  
problem at Notre Dame.  It states that the creation ofa student  
The Council also announced that  ccntcr on campus would solve the  
the class of'84 t-shirts are in and will  problem of a lack of interesting so­ 
be on sale beginning this week. The  cial alternatives. The petition calls  
shirts will be distributed by the  for an outside expert to conduct a  
respective dorm representatives for  study on the social problem and the  
$5.  viability of a student center on  
The freshman formal has been  campus.  
cancelled due to the large number of  Thompson feels that if 90 to I00  
competing formals and scarcity of  per cent of the freshmen sign the  
available dates. In lieu of the formal,  petition that the mandate can not be  
another class-wide activity is being  ignored by the administration.  
planned. According to FAC chair­ Thompson said that most people  
man Robert Thompson, the activity  complain that this administration  
would be a picnic type of event and  will not listen to the students. Hc  
would be held on May 2, with May 3  said the FAC is going to "take a  
as the makeup date in casc ofrain.  chance that the administration will  
Thompson rcported that the  listcn and act if they receive a strong  
movie "Heaven Can Wait" J1ettcd  mandate from thc students."  
about S400 for the FAC trcasury. He  "In the case of a new student cen­ 
also statcd that it is important for any  ter, thc class of'84 would benefit the  
frcshmen who have complaints  most, and I think the administration  
about individual courses to talk to  will pay the most attention to a  
their representatives within the  strong freshman mandate. The only  
ncxt wcck. He said that there is  way this will work is through stu­ 
going to be a meeting between FAC  dent involvement," he said.  


ItiURSQAY NI@HT FILM SERIES 
Thursday, March 26 
Will Penny Dir. by Tom Gries (U.S.A.) 1968 Charlton Heston, Jean Hackett, and Bruce Dern in one of the great-though often overlooked-of Westerns. A dusty, tough, yet moving story set In the classical veln of the genre. 
THE SNITE MUSEUM OF ART 
7:30 pm admission $1.00 sponsored by the ND-SMC 
·~~COMMUNICATION & THEATR'E=~~ 
SUMMEB S!OBAGE SPAOE 
Special dilcoun1i for lfDISMC s1iuden1is Security Patrol Oheclu 




269-0335 

SllLf LOCK S!ORAGil Of MCKIIfLilY 816 Bas1i MeKinley Mishawaka 

Applications for Assistant Treasurer Student Government must presently be a sophomore and going into accounting pick up applications in the Treasurer's Office 2nd floor LaFortune applications due Friday, April 3 4:00pm  



• A Roosevelt University Lawyer's  Lawyer's Assistant Program  
Aaalatant represents the mark of quality  ROOSEVELT UNIVERSITY  
and acceptance in today's legal  430 South Michigan Avenue  
community.  Chicago, Illinois 60605  •lt.  
• If you are a college graduate and  t31Zl 341·388Z  • ~  
qualify, why not give yourself an  Please send me information on  
advantage by attending Roosevelt  Roosevelt's Paralegal Program.  
University's Lawyer's Assistant Program  
which Ia fully accredited by the  1name--------­ 
American Bar Association.  1  

• Since the Fall of 1974, 11150 graduates I phone--------­representing over Z50 colleges and : addreaa--------­unlversltlea have chosen Roosevelt's :clty·---------­
Lawyer'a Assistant Prof!ram for their 1 
career training. alate zip•----­
• 
Specialize In: Corporations-Estates, 1Tuata and Willa-Utlgatlon-Real Estate and Mortgages-Employee Benefit Plana•-or become a Generalist' 

• 
Over 350 law firma, banks, oorporationa and government agencies throughout the United States have hired Rooeevelt graduates. 


llouolrv~llllnlv~rally odmlll lludo!nll on'"" hool• ol lndlvldUIII motrlt and without ~rd to'"'"'· oolor. c.--1, ..,,, or phyolc:al handlcop 
, •tnrMirlfC pnJflnm only 
Rec:nalter will be on campua 

April 9I 1 9 8 1 

The Observer Thursday, March 26, 1981 -page 4 


Up 12.1 percent 
Cost ofliving continues climb 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Despite Administration officials say That promising news should be moderating food prices, a huge jump gasoline and home heating oil prices frustrated by a resurgence in food in gasoline and fud oil rates pushed have risen I0-12 cents since and housing costs -the same items the nation's cost of living up last Reagan's Jan.' 22 order to lift all that have helped moderate inflation month at an annual rate of 12.1 per­remaining controls on domestic in early 1981,Jackman said. cent, the government said Tuesday. crude. Grocery store food prices were 
The latest figures, while not whol­Jackman said most of the impact unchanged last month, after declin­ly unexpected, reversed the from decontrol has worked through ing at a seasonally adjusted 0.4 per­somewhat encouraging perfor­the economy, and price increases cent clip in January. Prices for fresh mance of the previous month. The should subside in coming months as fruits and vegetables, due partly to 
annual rate of inflation had slowed people drive less and spring brings the january freeze, did go up, but to 9.1 percent in january, the lowest warmer weather. "We're already meats, poultry, fish and eggs level since last summer. \ seeing some price cutbacks in declined sharply, down 2.1 percent 
The Labor Department said a March,"Jackman noted. in February. worker with three dependents saw That view was echoed by Murray spendable earnings erode 1. 5 per­Weidenbaum, chairman of Reagan's House prices, meanwhile, fell 1.2 
cent in February. Council of Economic Advisers, who percent and mortgage interest costs 
The department reported that all told Congress he foresees more "rose substantially less" than in consumer prices advanced by 1 per­stable energy costs as soon as next recent months, the department cent last month. However, the index month. 
added. edged up only 0.3 percent after sub­

tracting fast-rising energy prices. Gasoline surged 6.6 percent, the lar~est one-month increase in a year. 
• • Japan
Fuel oil costs· jumped 8.S percent. The acceleration was due primarily 
to President Reagan's decontrol of domestic oil and to recent price in­creases by the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, said Labor Department economist Patrick Jackman. 
However, that doesn't tell the entire story, said a government economist, who asked not to be identified. "With decontrol, oil com­panies saw an opportunity to raise prices, even with a glut ofgasoline," he said. "They used decontrol partly as a rationalization." 
continuedfrom page 1 

Taniguchi was arrested in 1950 on charges of stabbing to death Shigeo Kagawa, a 63 year-old rice dealer, and stealing the equivalent of $36. He confessed to the crime, then retracted the statement and claimed innocence. Nevertheless, he was 
• sentenced to death by hanging in 1951. 
Taniguchi has fought for a new hearing ever since. In 1976, the 


Gordon Lightfoot 
APRIL 4&5 ...... $9.95 
CALL... 

~ {219)769-6600
Holiday Star 
Also at TICKETRON


Theatre 
HOLIDAY PLAZA/1-65 & U.S. 30/MERRILLVILLE,IN. 
Supreme Court sent the case back to the Takamatsu district court which ruled last year that Taniguchi was entitled to a retrial. ­
llpholding that ruling this month, the High Court said there were doubts about tests which found traces of type 0 blood, the same as the murdered man's, on Taniguchi's 
trousers. 

Thejapanese re;td with interest of the debate over capital punishment in the United States, but there is no significant movement in japan to do away with the practice. What move­
ment does exist is small and poorly organized. 
One reason may be that the sub­ject is shrouded in official secrecy, with little attention paid by Qews media. The Justice Ministry says 26 people are on Japan's Death Row, but other statistics are virtually un­obtainable. 
Unofficial figures in 1977 ind­icated more than 500 people have been hanged since the war's end. There were 116 executions in 1948, according to the figures, 62 the next year with far fewer in each year since. The last reported hanging oc­curred in 1979. 
The executions are not an­nounced and many go unnoticed except by family members called to collect remains. 
Taniguchi's case is one of several that have been the subject of recent court rulings. Not so fortunate was Sadamichi Hirasawa, who at 88 is said to be the world's oldest in­habitant of Death Row. Hirasawa was convicted in a 194'8 case in Tokyo in which a man posing as a sanitation official poisoned 12 bank officials with "anti-dysentery" medicine before robbing the bank. 
Hirasawa, a well-known P.!!-inter in Japan, has made 16 appeals for a 
retrial but has been rejected each 
time, most recently in December. 
In almost every case of this kind the defendant signed a confession af­ter arrest and then claimed in­nocence in court. Critics say the pattern indicates )apanese police use heavy-handed methods. 
Police officials refuse to discuss the subject other than to deny the use ofphysical coercion. 
Hirasawa told backers that after days of isolation and accusations by police, he readily signed whatever they put in front ofhim. 
Over the years, the rights of the accused have improved. Search war­rants are required, and physical torture is not common. However, police may hold an individual for up to 20 days before filing formal charges, and a suspect does not have an automatic right to legal counsel. 
continuedfrom page 1 

including assistant chairman of the Oept. ofChemistry, assistant dean of the College of Science and at the present time, dean of the freshman year of studies program. 
11) Richard]. Hunter, Jr. -A native of New Jersey, Hunter graduated from Notre Dame in 1971 and returned to receive a Law degree in 1976. Prof Hunter has served the students in a variety offunctions, includ­ing varsity soccer coach, assistant director of non­varisty athletics, assistant rector of Carroll Hall and most recently, director of Bengal Bouts. He also has provided legal counsel to Notre Dame students. 12 )Edward "Moose" Krause -Truly a living legend of Notre Dame Athletics. Twice an All-American tackle in football and three times an All-American center in bas­ketball for the Irish in the 1930's, Moose returned to Notre Dame in 1949 to succeed Frank L-eahy as athletic director. He resigned his post on Jan. 2 in order to devote more time to his family. 13 )Robert Leader-A specialist in Liturgical Art, Prof. Leader joined the Notre Dame faculty in 1953. He at­tended the Museum of Fine art for one year prior to service in the Marine Corps for which he was awarded the Purple Heart. He returned to the Boston Museum for study before entering Yale University where he 
• • ~Fellows 
received a Bachelor of Fine Arts degree. Prof Leader received his Master's degree from the University of Il­linois in 1951. At the present time, Prof Leader is a designer and associate of Reinart's Studios, a national lecturer of the University Speakers Bureau and an as­sociate editor of Christian Arts. However, he is best known for his "Art Trads" course, a perennial favorite . 
14) Sister jane Pitz, C.SJ. -Sister Jane is the first woman to be actively involved in Campus Ministry in the 138-year history of the University. As an associate director of the office, she is primarily concerned with 1600 undergraduate women at Notre Dame. Sister received her undergraduate degree in art and philosophy from Fontbor.ne College in St. Louis. She received her master of Fine Arts degree from Notre Dame in 1972 after •.:.. ..:hing in secondary and elemen­tary schools in St. Louis, Green Bay and Kansas City. 
15) john Roos -An associate professor of Govern­ment, Roos did his undergraduate work at Notre Dame and received both his MA and Ph.D at the University of Chicago. He was bestowed the honor ofbeingchosen as a Woodrow Wilson Fellow. More recently, Prof. Roos has worked as campaign manager for Mayor Roger Parent ofSouth Bend and U.S. Rep. John Brademas. On 
campus, he heads up the internship program for government majors and is the associate director of the Urban Studie1> program. 


Baggage Truck Concessions 
Contract is mandatory for any group or individual wishing to run a baggage truck this 
' 
May &lor August Pick -up Applications March 30th Student Union Office 2nd floor LaFortune Applications Due: April 8th 
I 

Thursday, March 26, 1981 -page 5 







Features 
45 RPM picture sleeves: more than just free bonuses 
R
emember when you were stlll a teenybopper? Think back to those days when you couldn't alford to buy LPs, so you bought 45s. Do you still have any ofthc:m? You probably do...somewhere. Do you stlll have any ofthe sleeves that came with them? Ifyou were like most people, you probably threw them out, assigning no value to them. Yet the picture sleeves that are a free bonus with many 45 RPM records eventually, in almost all cases, become more valuable than the record contained within. 
The picture sleeve was, and still is, a promotional aid. Most of the early jackets consisted ofpublicity stills culled from the promotion depart· ments ofmajorlabels: An example is this 1956 Elvis Presley sleeve .. 
Throughout the '50s and '60s, 
picture sleeves generally fit into 
three catt~gories: bland, blander, and 
blandest. Most of the pictures on 
them were basic, ho-hum, close-ups 
of the stars Involved. Even the Beatles' picture sleeves lit this for­mula, at least until 1967. The one below Is a bit more interesting than that. It Is from a big hit of 1966. 
Picture sleeves went into a decline for awhile. However, since about 1978, they have come back with a vengeance. Yet at least half of all 45 RPM jackets show a distinct lack ofimagination; they use an Identical copy ofthe album cover. One example Is the below sleeve, which Is Identical, pictorially, to, the LP cover ofhis aibumDouble Fan­
tasy. 
Only slightly more imaginative are those that use a picture con­tained with the album package. Take this sleeve, for example. This is an enlarged version of a photo con­tained In the "tour booklet" which was an extra with his LP~unning on EmpJy. More interesting is the flip side of this copy of "Stay": by the 
time it had reached the top 40, "Rosie" had been replaced by "The Load-Out." 
Columbia Records has recently been releasing the records ofsome ofits more popular artists with series ofpicture sleeves which are somewhat similar In format; have something to do with the hit song contained within; and, in most cases, contain pictures not found with the album package. T<tkc, for example, those from the four singles released from Billy Joel's album Glass Houses. 


Here's a case in point that a record doesn't have to be old to be valuable: This sleeve, from a Columbia Records release ofAugust 1980, was distributed to very few areas ofthe country (somehow, one ofthese wa$ South Bend, Indiana). The record inside was a flop; it didn't even make the Billboard Hot 100. I have already seen this record on sale in collector's markets for S 10. That means its value has ,increased to 1 
eight times its retail price in a llttle 
.over six months. Copies could pos­sibly be hidden in the racks ofsome record store somewhere, so happy hunting! 

A& M Records consistently comes up with very good and im­aginative picture sleeves. Examples are the jackets for the three Super­tramp singles culled from Breakfast in America. Another example (this one, somewhat rare) is this sleeve from one ofStyx's biggest hits. 

Fitting a similar, but not identical, format to the BillyJoel sleeves are Bruce Springsteen's jackets from his two most recent singles (as far as I know, the only Springsteen 45s to come with these freebies). The B­sides of these sleeves contain the lyrics to both songs contained with­
in. 


Tim Neely 

Allpicture sleeves used in the above article are from the author's personal collection. 
I desperately need anyone in­terested in writing LP and/or con· cert reviews. Call Tim Neely at 1426 or 1715 now! 

Music Trivia 



QuizXVII: More Obscurities 
A
s usual, the last quiz contained questions for people with varying degrees ofrock inteUigence. The stage identity ofVincent Furnier is fairly common knowledge, while that ofsuch people as Charles Westover and Delcan Patrick McManus isn't, 
Get ready, because this week's quiz is a real stinker. Several weeks ago I offered a quiz which asked you to name performers who had brieftastes ofsuccess, either commercially or critically, and then fuded away. I am going to do the same thing this week; however, most ofthese "beautiful losers" are even more obscure than those men­tioned a few weeks ago, so look out. 
No introductions this week; straight into the nitty-gritty I go. 
I. A rarity in rock and roll, an all-female band...and they nearly made it big. They were the backup band on Barbra Streisand's Top 10 hit of 1971, "Stoney End," and had a Top 40 hit oftheir own In 1975 called "Butter Boy." Alas, they were never able to follow up that success. 
2. 
This early British Invasion group also had the feminine touch ­thev had a female drummer. In fact, they even named themselves after her: However, they only had one hit, a Top I 0 record late in 1964. 

3. 
A highly-regarded group from the West Coast, their first album received rave reviews and their first 45, "Go Back," made the Top 40. This was in 1970; the group never fulfilled its promise and had broken up by 1972. 

4. 
It's hard to call this group a beautiful loser. They were, in the opinion ofmany, one ofthe most disgusting groups ever to hit the charts. Some oftheir records were banned before they were even released. However, they became one ofBritain's most popular bands. An attempted U.S. tour in 1978 lasted for one concert; an album compiled from British singles did poorly; shortly thereafter, they broke up. One ofits members has since changed his name and formed another band; another died in jail. 

5. 
Formed by two former Yardbirds after that legendary group broke up, they released one album and then folded. However, in 1972, another group of musicians, none ofwhom were in the original band, took the same name and style of music -a cross between rock and 16th-17th century musical styles -and had some moderate success, particularly in the Mideast, hut never really broke through. 

6. 
For two years in the mid-sixties, they were among the most popular American groups. As quickly as they had appeared, they disap­peared, having split up at the peak of their popularity, One member became a successful solo singer and died in 1974; the others more or less fuded from the rock scene. A brief reunion in 1971 didn't work 

7. 
This singer-songwriter-actor wrote and sang the I976 Academy Award-winning song. That record was reissued not long after the award was given, ahd became a Top 20 hit As a result, he signed with Asylum Records, put out one album containing a re-recorded version ofthat song, and has hardly been heard from in the music world since. 

8. 
Some ofthe Gram my Award winners for "Best New Artist" go on to bigger and better things; The Beatles, Carly Simon, and Bettt· Midler arc examples ofthat. Others, like the Swingle Singers (who??), arc never seen or heard from again. This group fulls into the latter category. They had tie-ins to John Denver, had one big hit (a number one, in fact), and have been trying ever since to match that, unsuccess­fully. 

9. 
This New York-based band first recorded an album in 1969 to good reviews but general apathy by the record-buying public. After that, they briefly reappeared courtesy ofJohn Lennon; they were the backup band on the new material on hisSome Time In New York Clly fiasco. 

10. 
In retrospect, this band could be considered one of the first punk rock groups. Their first album, which was produced by Todd Rundgren, is considered by many critics to be a classic. However, by the time punk rock and New Wave music began to gain a larger follow­ing, this band, named after its city oforigin, had broken up. 


And,justfor thefun oftt, another "beautiful loser'' ofa more recent vintage: Another early punk-rocker, this artist's first record was entitled "Piss Factory," and things went pretty much downhill after that. Eventually, this performer had a hit record with a song which was smuggled out ofanother(fur more popular) artist's recording session. This was in 1978; this briefcommerci~l success did not last, though. 
**************** 

~March 12'sAnswers 
Here are the answers to the last quiz. In each instance, the better· known stage name is preceded by his real name. 
1. 
Vincent Furnier -Alice Cooper 

2. 
Chris Geppert -Christopher Cross 

3. 
DeJean Patrick McManus -Elvis Costello 

4. 
Dino Crocctti -Dean Martin 

5. 
Charles Westover-Del Shannon (His best-known song was the 1961 classic "Runaway.") 

6. 
Ross Bagdasarian -David Seville (He also was the voice: of all three ofthe original Chipmunks.) 

7. 
Richard Zehringer -Rick Derringer 


8, Steve land Judkins-Stevie Wonder (His real name has also been given as Steve land Morris and Stcveland Hardaway. Judkins, however, was the last name of his father.) 
9. 
Robert Velline-Bobby Vee (another early rock and roll star) 

10. 
Frederick Bulsara -Freddie Mercury 









Thursday, March 26, 1981 -page


Editorials 
P.O. Box Q 
It is almo$t too ""'"innq•,fni•; , againstthe 
-ne~essaty~ Sen~ 
from SouthCarolina, back.the draft after its eil!:ht<·vear ..,,.•,~ ...·~··A army does. not hay¢ •the· 
length/' • >> · · -A draft is nofne¢essary.at.UtisJii.1Jl~;.Jllt< answer to our military "'""'"'"''~'";. 
volunteer. army has not centives, afavorite. econo1tlriCtd:mdr!iwJ ministration jargon; Qualifi¢ij1m other vttal servicemen commensurate with that of the free petled to remain.I ri the.service. M near-poverty fevelincomeS., starnpassistanee; These makeItacareerthey must right to ask, 
Rep> JQhn .Hiler~ in puplished ne~t week, "paper·tiget;'' Jle 
ThePed@e Corps iS2to>·,,.,.........N········ 
Dissenting views oii Reagan 
have a good-time at a graduation
Dear Editor: 
worth remembering than a
I am a graduating senior, but 
boring, overly solemn ceremony
I'm not disappointed that Ronald which will only be tossed into
Reagan is speaking at commence­
mothballs.
ment. The only thing that disap­
points me is the quality of 
Marshall W. Sprigg

Anthony Walton's "Guns, Butter 
and Notre Dame?" editorial in 
South Bend the March II Observer. His argu­ment is weak for a number of reasons. First, Ronald Reagan is ~ot Dear Editor: speaking at Notre Dame just be­
As a graduate of Notre Dame, I cause he is the President of the 
want to express my empathy with United States. He is coming be­the senior class in their dismay cause those who were responsible about Ronald Reagan's selection for extending the invitation had to as commencement speaker. At find the individual who offers the my graduation, the speaker was 
greatest combination of elo­William F. Buckley, a man I felt quence and credibility and who to be a moral albatross incapable generates the most interest. of representing the · Christian Reagan has proven his eloquence ideals of a Notre Dame education. time and again; his credibility is I faced the difficult decision of fortified by the position of aut­protesting Buckley's selection by hority he currently holds and by not attending the graduation his far-reaching experience; and service, or attending the service as President of the United States for the sake of my parents who as well as "the Gipper", he has had sacrificed much for .me to at­the potential to generate more in­tend Notre Dame. My years at terest within the Notre Dame Notre Dame were a time of community (and the nation) than· spiritual and moral development, anyone except possibly the Pope. notjust a time to accumulate facts Even you admitted that "65 per­and read great books. I felt the 
cent of the students and 90 per­honoring of Buckley was a cent of the parents" will think defacement of Notre Dame's that Reagan's visit is terrific. commitment to its value-oriented What more do you want? After education and my participation in all, graduation is for the students that process. The selection of a'nd their families. 
The second weakness in your editorial is that you fail to offer eveq a single practical alternative Garry Trudeau to Mr. Reagan. In fact, you never 
even define the "true Christian and Notre Dame values" that such an alternative is supposed to exemplify. Instead, you dedicate yourself to assaulting Reagan's charactei. Many people, myself included, firmly believe that Reagan is an honest, competent, hard-working man who is striving for peace, prosperity and the 
welfare of all human beings in the best way he knows how. Just be­cause you and a few others hap­pen to disagree with hi~ conservative approach does not necessarily make him incorrect, unethical or immoral. 
Finally, I am excited about Ronald Reagan speaking at com­mencement, and it doesn't bother me that he will receive an honorary degree. If you don't think that being elected President of the United States is an achieve­ment, I'd like to know what your idea of achievement is. Maybe all of the "hoopla" surrounding the reunion of "the Rock" and "the Gipper" is a bit much, but I don't think it cheapens a Notre Dame degree. On the contrary, I prefer to see Reagan's visit as a compli­ment to Notre Dame's reputation for excellence. Besides, I'd rather 
Reagan is once again a degred 
tion of the Christian ideals t 
which Notre Dame aspires. 
During my tenure at Notre Dame, the University enhanced the prestige of moral and intellec­tual mediocrity by conferring honorary doctorates on Gerald Ford and Jimmy Carter. Now, ND seeks to reward moral and in­tellectual neurosis by awarding Ronald Reagan an honorary d !orate. A great university co dent of itself and its mission doe not need to prove its success b giving an honorarium to every cupant of the Oval Office. Not Dame should celebrate tho people whose lives have bro witness and reality to the missi of the Church and the University. The Gospel teaches us never reward anyone.solely on the ba of their station in life. 
I feel remorse for the gradu ing class. Neither William Buc ley nor Jimmy Carter d. their commencement add to the graduates. Instead, the both used the podium as a politi cal. platform. I cannot think of more tasteless debasement of thi ceremony. 
Three years ago, I decided to attend the graduation service, be­cause of my love for my parents. I wanted to celebrate with them the achievement their sacrifices had made possible. I could not deny them that joy. However, in order to give Mr. Buckley the proper respect his views deserved, I blew bubbles during his entire address. 
James L. Gajewski Class of1978 Philadelphia, Pa. 
M5. KIRK!mRICK, fA/&, /A/13 C4il.. f!AN HOW fA/(i}/J) Yf1J ''M-MG: fOR. "MOO­/J£5CI?JIJC TH& t:MTEL.YREf'R£55/V& GOV&!<NM£NT IVJ7l.IOR!TAR!AN ~­IN R. 511L1#1WR. &RNMENJ:u81/TAT 
70/JAY? /fA5T TH£YI<E f/6HT­!NG lffl?ORJSM. 
/ 
fRIJM 7H&M!L.­
ITAR.Y? 
f 

Editorial Board and Department Managers 
t 

Editor-in-Chtef........................................ .John McGrath SMCExecutive Editor ..................... Mary Agnes Carey
Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
Managing Editor......................................Tom]ackman SMC News Editor ................................Kathy Domanico
The Ob.1er_t·er ;s an independent newspaper published by the studento, of the 
Executive News Editor ..............................Lynne Daley Photo Editor...................................................]ohn Macor
Univers~ry of Notre J?ame clu Lac and Sainr tvtary's College. It does not necessarily 
News Editor .............................................Tim Vercellotti
reflect '.!e policies ur t~e admimstrauon of elt~er InstitutiOn. The news is reponed Business Manager ....................................Rich CoppolaNews Editor..................................................]ohn Higgins
as au.urarely and as •Jt)ecnvely as possible. Edmmals represem the opinion of a Controller........................................................]oe Mulflur Senior Copy Editor ........................Mary Fran Callahan 
~aJonr:.-of the Edironal Board. Commentaries, opinions, and letters are the views Advertising Manager ......................................Mark Ellis Sports Editor ..............................................Beth Huffman Production Manager ...................Ryan Ver Berkmoes
or th_eir aurhors.Column S!Jace IS available to all members of the community, and 
Features Editor..........................................Rick Hermida Circulation Manager ........................Tom MacLennan
the fre~.~xp~~~ of varyi~g opm10ns on campus, through letters, is encouraged. 4 
_T_h_e_O_h_s_e_r_ve_r__________________________..:_T_h_u~rsday, March 26, 1981 -page 7 


In solidarity with Jose Napoleon Duarte 
On Monday, a march in solidarity with the people of El Salvador commemorating the an­niversary of the death of Archbis­hop Romero took place in South Bend. This article is written in response to statements printed by The Observer implying that sup­port for the present government of El Salvador condones repres­sion. 
I, too, am in solidarity with the people of El Salvador. Social justice and an end to violence and repression are also my ideals. But I am not in solidarity with those who won't admit that many of the guerrilla leaders in El Salvador are Marxists, those who flippant­ly describe Napoleon Duarte as a rightist, or those whose ideologi­cal blinders lead them to perceive the junta as the monolithic monster of the repressive right. 
No sensible American favors a foreign policy which arms repressive regimes. No one denies that the violence in El Sal­vador is grotesque. But to categorically describe thejunta as repressive is miserably superfi­cial. The junta which Duarte leads has already implemented the most radical land reform program in the history of Latin America. It has nationalized the banks. It has exiled the most extreme laders of the military right. To label the junta the pawn of reactionaries is ignorant. President Duarte, the leader of El Salvador's Christian 
Democratic Party has clearly demonstrated throughout his political career that he believes in social justice. He also believes in democracy. Only blind ideologues of the left consider him a rightist. But the most feared enemies of the radical left have al­ways been the forces for moderate reform. 
It is difficult to discern the logic 
of those who claim that El Sal­
vador's poverty is caused by that nation's military. El Salvador's army is not a monolith. Duarte's junta was put in power by refor­mers within the military. This is not the governmcnt,of the landed aristocracy, nor is it the govern­ment which denied Duarte the 
Cl-Ap CL~P ~~~ 

BRI~LIANII(Jll~ 
CJ.Ap CW C!.AP 
~vo 

presidency that was consitution­ally his. To claim that this military JUnta causes the poverty of El Sal­vador is to confess unfamiliarity with elementary economic and demographic concepts. It is a sign of commendable, but mis­directed, idealism. 
The government has created an electoral commission to organize national elections by 1982. Duarte and the military have pledged to uphold the results of the election whatever they may be. The head of the commission has called on all parties to nominate candidates for office. The elections are criti­cal to continued U.S. support of the present government. If they are not implemented, or if the results are not respected, Duarte can no longer expect U.S. sup­port. 
But there arc those who say that giving this government military assistance condones repression. Are we to abandon the people of El Salvador to gucr­
rillas whose arms are supplied by ~ub~ and the Sandinistas? Why is tore1gn assistance fom Marxist states acceptable while American 
assistance to the reformist government is not? The junta in El Salvador promises elections much sooner than does the present leadership in Nicaragua. Denying all military aid to Duarte would seem to guarantee a Sandinista-stylc regime in El Sal­vador. The Sandinistas' agenda for reform, elections, and their lack of respect for human rights are not acceptahble to believers in democracy. 
The differences between El Salvador today and Somoza's Nicaragua are undeniable. Wealth in Nicaragua was much more narrowly concentrated. Somoza adamantly refused to abdicate in favor of reformist ~o.derates and led his country to c1v1l war. Somoza's regime· was unconscionable. But in El Sal­vador the wealth, in terms of land 
Robert Nelson Allen, Jr. 
LET ME MAP gurOUR MIP -EAST 
BJUCY FeR ,'().)I I' IF 711£
50VI;rr9{0tJt'J) J)ISTVR.B 7HE S"Jfl1Uf QUO J.lfRE1 OR 9\Y .HtRF, Wf WJUt[) fORCEfUllY 
COUNTER HERE AND H£Rf AND .EVfN HERE I 
I' 

5AME 7HING GO~S FoR 

Et S'AJ..VA!t'R. _. 
and bank assets, has been 
redistributed. Reform is the government's central platform. 
It cannot be denied that there are brutally repressive elements within El Salvador's armed forces, but neither can the blood shed by leftist guerrillas·. The frustration of those directly af­fected by years of repression is easily understood, as is their suspicion of any government sup­ported by the military, but it would be a serious mistake to withdraw U.S. support from Duarte and the moderates. Social justice will not come with massive. military aid, but neither will it be the result of extrinsic solutions imposed by El Salvador's Marxist trained and supplied insurgent leaders. 
The options facing the people of El Salvador arc two: non­democratic authoritarian govern­ment of the radical left or social democracy. Returning to a right wing regime, never desirable, is no longer even viable. Marxist-led revolutions have left the world the legacy of Stalin's purges, Mao's cultural revolution, Castro's political prisons, and Pol Pot's genocide. In contrast, the allegedly repressive government of El Salvador has redistributed the land and promises elections in less than two years. 
Moderate support of Duarte and his reformist government, combined with continual pressure for implementation of democratic mechanisms, was t~e policy of Ambassador White and the Car­ter Administration. It seems also to be that of the Reagan camp. 
I am in solidarity with Archbis­h~p Romero and with the people 0f El Salvador. I am, therefore, in solidarity with Jose Napoleon Duarte. 
Robert Nelson Allen is a third­year law student and former resi­dent of Central America. His undergraduate senior thesis on that region wonthe Florida Politi­cal Science Association A ward. 

Strip searches not limited to SMC 
Maxwell Glen and Cody Shearer 
WASHINGTON Strip searches are for murderers and drug pushers. Not under-aged drinkers and highway speeders. 
But many local police depart­ments around the country haven't gotten the message. They're still requiring suspects to disrobe and display their private parts-even for minor offenses. 
Strip searches are usually restricted to felony arrests but they can be legally conducted on any suspect to protect police of­ficers from weapons and to dis­cover pieces of concealed evidence. 
Still wonder why cops get a bad name? 
On a recent Friday evening, eight college women from Notre Dame's sister school -Saint Mary's College, in South Bend, Ind.-were hanging out at a local bar. So)Tie of them were allegedly drinking (the Indiana drinking age is 21 ). 
Not long after the women arrived at the popular campus pub, the local police showed up. They blocked the front and rear exits, and began checking the cus­tomers' ID cards. Without any protest, the eight women were ar­rested and charged wih drinking under age. A typical Friday night for them was turning into a "C minus" police movie. 
Driven to the city jail in a paddy wagon, the eight students were photographed, fingerprinted and checked for weapons. 
Clearly, these women posed no threat to society or to their cap­tors for downing a few beers. The local police might have reprimanded the women, called their parents or dorm ad visors and asked some adult to pick 
them up and take them home. No harm, no foul. But that's not what happened. 
Each woman was marched into a small washroom, stripped of her clothing and given a thorough body cavity search by a female probation officer. The police then placed all·eight in a large holding cell where they were reunited 
with the bartender who'd served them in the first place. His body cavities had gone uninspected. 
After a two hour wait, the women were moved to a female detention f~,tcility. There they called friends and family mem­bers to pay the $50 bond. 
While the women were amused that one had obtained bail money from a dormitory party fund, none thought the overall incident very funny. 
"This is one of the worst things that's ever happened to me," said one of the women, sobbing on the phone. "I guess next to rape, this is probably the most dehumaniz­ing thing that can happen to someone." 
The women have pleaded not guilty to the drinking charges. This week, the local traffic court may set a trial date or dispose of the case. Some of the women, however, arc reportedly con­templating legal action against the local authorities, noting the American Civil Liberties Union's successful suit against the Chicago Police Department last year. 
The South Bend Police have admitted strip searches for minor offenses are against department policy. And the town's Board of Public Safety will meet this week also to determine if any of the 
police force acted improperly. 
What happened in South Bend, 
however, occurs elsewhere every 
day. In a Washington, D.C., sub­
urb, 4,500 people were strip­
searched last year. And the same 
may be true in your town. Some 
of the crimes around here that led 
to this treatment included eating a 
sandwich on a subway train, 
writing obscenities on a traffic 
ticket and playing loud music in a 
bedroom. 
One Virginia sheriff has conceded that he permits strip­searche-s for all kinds of offenses. He has claimed that he couldn't 
live with himself if one of his of­ficers was killed by a prisoner 
who hadn't been strip-searched. 
Surely, there are other ways for police officers to , identify prisoners with concealed weapons. How about. walking a suspect though a metal detector? 
The Chicago Police·:~t>epart­ment got on the righLir~~k last year when they agrced:;li) strip­search only those persons ar­rested for serious viol~tions or those believed to pose ;a 'serious threat to themselves o'r a:n·officer. No longer arc all suspects strip­searched. 
Other municipaliticsshould fol­low Chicago's lead. 
The practice of strip-searching harmless law-breakers is some­thing only the Gestapo would do. l~'s barbaric and often d.esigned Simply to embarrass suspects. More importantly, it gives policemen a bad name. And they have enough problems already. 
Thursday, March 26, 1981 -page 8 


Campus 
•4:30 p.m. lecture: "spectroscopic studies of thymidylate sythetase com­plexes with nucleotides & folates," dr. charles a. lewis, jr., · university of south carolina, 
.sponsored by the chemistry department, room 123 ' nieuwland science hall. 
•7,9, 
11 p.m. -film: "julia," engineering auditorium, S 1 ad­mission. 

•7:30 
p.m. -talk: "an evening with paul roche," n.d. poet in residence, memorial library lounge. 

•7:30 
p.m. -film: "will penny," annenberg auditorium, sponsored by the department of communications & theater, Sl admission. 

•8 
p.m. -lecture: "the crisis in el salvador & american foreign policy," former ambassador robert e. white, o'laughlin auditorium, sponsored by the teaching and learning commit­tee. 

•8 
p.m. -lecture: "lex orandi, lex credendi: ecumenical & theological considerations," professor geoffrey wainwright, union theological seminary, new york, galvin auditorium, sponsored by the department of theology. 

•8 
p.m. -recital: margaret irwin-brandon, harpsichord, little theater, smc, sponsored by the department of music. 

•8:15 
p.m. -conc~rt: notre dame concert band, ace. 


Elizabethan Trio performs 
University Artist Series of Notre Dame will present The Elizabethan Trio, an ensemble of three drama and music performers, in an evening of entertainment at 8:1 5 Saturday. The program in the Annenberg Auditorium of the Snite Museum of Art is open to the public. 
The California-based trio has been commissioned to prepare perfor­mances fof major historical art shows in the nation. A combination of dramatic narrator, harpsichordist and soprano soloist provides a unique balance for their perfor­mance of"From Prynne to Purcell," a dramatic presentation of the cul­tural changes that occurred in England during the Restoration period. 
i 

.. .Corby 
continuedfrom page 1 
reports, court reports, and the tes­timony of neighborhood residents -in their review ofCorby's license. 
Masters indicated that he and the :'llortheast Neighborhood Council would make such evidence available 
to the Commission during its April 15 meeting. 
The meeting from the minute of its opening rapidly digressed into a disagreement between Anton, Mas­ters, and members of the Commis­sion on the procedure for license renewals. Anton attempted to claim that the renewals proceed automati­cally unless a complaint for the pre­vious year is pending. 
The ABC noted that an unspecified -complaint from March 1980, exists, and although it was dis­cussed at last year's renewal hearing, it is still available for consideration. 
Masters claimed that the Commis­sion can review any license when there is sufficient evidence against those holding a permit. 
I I 
•~-------------------------------­
Michael Molinelli 

HORF?I!IO~~'TlfAr ~ONG, 15 


I ACROSS 26 Conclusion 1 Dingoand 28 Concerto
The Daily Crossword 
griffon parts 5 Prompted 33 Buchwald 9 Hairless 34 Neckwear 
13 Part 36 Tend the 


of QED furnace 14 Eared seal 37 Anatomical 16 Moslem membrane 
prince 39 Puts aside 17 Flying 41 Israeli prefix dance 18 Faith 42 Elevator spreader stop, in 20 Verne's Paris 
Phileas-44 Fortlfica· 21 Layer tion 22 Engraves 46 Fate 23 Love, ltal· 47 Residence 
ian style 49 Simpletons 25 Polly Holll· 51 Before, day role to poets 
Yesterday's Puzzle Solved: 
All Rights Reserved 52 Offshoot 12 Prohibition· 53 Goddess of ists 


Wisdom 15 Comply 57 French gala 19 Sioux 58 Small tribesmen 
bottle 24 Wave:Sp. 
61 Motion 25 Doomed picture 26 Aspect studio 27 Provoked 
63 Neutral 28 Desire color 29 Most 64 Takeout extreme 
words 30 Kind of 65 Downy duck garden 66 Maugham 31 Ohiorub· 
story bercenter 67 Pub offer· 32 Does 
ings ushering 68 Hodgepodge 35 Chill con­69 Metallic 38 Sweater 
residue size: abbr. 40 Needlework 
DOWN specimens 1 Unheeding 43 Correct 2 Mountain: 45 Partner of 
comb. form neither 3 Enormous 48 Expunge 4 Blemish 50 Comedienne 5 Medicated Joan 
cloth 52 Wise men 8 Practical 53 Movledog 7 Facile 54 Instrument 8 Physicians: 55 See3Down 
abbr. 56 Adam's 9 Judge's grandson seat 57 Proposed 10 Nanking 59 Opera song nan a 60 Breathing 11 Italian organ money 62 Tiny-

DELL'S 

Carry, Out BAR-B-QUE 

Chris morgan 9-10:30

525 N. Eddy St. 


Next 10:30-1
e Ribs e Chicken 
e Rib Tips e Sausage 





satutday, match 28 
mark Ulllman 9 -11:00
Open Wed.-Sun. Noon til 8:30 3 Blocks Down from Corby's 
michael Radigan 11 -1:00 

The Observer Thursday, March 26, 1981 -page 9 
From LSU 
No 'Special D' for Isiah 

BATON ROUGE, La. (AP) ­There'll be no spec.:lal defense ­such as a box and one -to try to slow Indiana's standout guard lsiah Thomas in Saturday's Final Four bas­ketball semltinal, Louisiana State coach Dale Brown said yesterday. 
"We'd like to put him in a box for the game," Brown quipped when asked of his defensive plans for the talented sophomore Hoosier guard. "We don't plan to come up with too many gimmicks at this time of the season." 
Fourth-ranked LSU, 31·3, battles Indiana, 24-9, in the opening Final Four semifinal Saturday in Philadel­phia.· 
Brown's message to national writers and broadcasters in a four­way telephone hookup with the other Final Four coaches was simple: no major changes on defense or of­fense are planned. 
Most of the season, the Southeas­tern Conference champion Tigers played man-to-man defense. Senior point guard Ethan Martin will draw the defensive assignment on Thomas. 
One writer noted that Big Ten Conference champion Indiana is noted for its disciplined offense, and that might prove bothersome for LSU which is the highest-scoring
Bobby Knight (left) and his Indiana Hoosiers will be looking to 
team in the Final Four, averaging
the on-the-court leadership of sophomore guard /slab Thomas 
80.2 points a game. 
(right}, but LSUplans nothing special to stop him. 
No problem, said Brown, noting his club can play the deliberate 
For Hoosiers 
From Hawaii to Philadelphia 
BLOOMINGTON, Ind. (AP) ­
The reference point Indiana players 
generally use in gauging their 
progress over the season is the Rain· 
bow Classic in Hawaii. Everything 
before and during that holiday bas­
ketball tournament last December is 
something they'd just as soon forget. 
"I don't think (the NCAA final 
FTour in) Philadelphia ever entered 
my mind when we were on the 
plane coming back from Hawaii," 
says forward Ted Kitchel, recalling 
the downcast mood that accom­
panied the Hoosiers back to 
Bloomington. 
Back·to·back losses to Clemson 
and Pan American in the Rainbow 
Classic -along with earlier losses 
to highly ranked Notre Dame, Ken­
tucky and North Carolina -left In­
diana with a disappointing 7-5 
record heading into the always 
tough Big Ten Conkrence season. 
"When we got back and won our 
first two Big Tt·n games (against 
Michigan State and Illinois), we 
started getting ourselves together 
and started belit-vinng we could do 
it," Kitchd said. 
"We've had to strugglt-anti work 
our butts otl', hut it's all worth it now. 
We never gavt· up hope. and it just 
st·t·ms we've startt'llto gel in the last 
five or six games." he added. "But I 
still think wt· 1.:an get better." 
It was in tht· lloosicrs' 7H-61 vic­tory over Illinois in early .January that Kitchd scored a career-high 40 points, also a singll.'-ganll.' high for any Indiana playt·r this }'t'ar. The 6­tiHJt-H junior hit I I of 13 shots from the fidd and st·t a Big Tt·n record 
with I H straight free throws without a miss. 
In llig Ten play, the I ioosit'rs went I+4, losing to Iowa twin· anti to .\lichiJ,lan and Purdue once each, to earn thdr set'lmd straiJ,lht con­ference championship and their sixth It-ague title in Coat·h Bobby Kni~-tht's I 0 years at the helm. 
other NCAA national champion­
ships, once under Knight in 1976 
and twice under the late Branch 
McCracken in 1940 and 1953. 
Much of the credit for Indiana's ·turnaround goes to sophomore 
guard Isiah Thomas, says 6-6 junior 
guard Randy Wittman. 
"lsiah's really taken over our 
team. He's got the club moving, and 
everybody is responding to his 
leadership," Wittman said of the 
Hoosiers' 6-1 scoring and playmak· ing star. 
"Things have really turned round in our last five or six games," Wit­tman continued. "We're not just going to Philadelphia to play; we're going to win two games. Going there is everyone's dream, but we won't be satisfied unless we win." 
"There's no comparison," he added, "of the way we all felt when we were 7-5 and the way we feel 
now." 

• • .Reds 
continuedfrom page II 
Barranca's solo home run in the flfth gave the Reds a 2-0 lead. Joe Nolan's double and Paul Househol­
der's  single  added  a  run  in  the  
seventh.  
Baltimore,  6-7,  scored  in  the  
seventh  off  reliever  Scott  Brown  

when Gary Roenit'ke doubled, took 
third on Eddie Murray's single and came home on a douhlt·-play groun­der by Doug DeCinces. 
The Orioles added a run in the ninth on doubles by Dallas Williams and Murray. 
The Reds also announced they have cut six players from the major league roster and reassigned them to teams in the Cincinnati farm system. 
They included pitchers jose Brito and Bill Scherrer, catcher Steve Christmas, second baseman Tom Lawless and outfielders Gary Redus and Duane Walker. 
Wednesday's cuts were the flrst of spring training for tht· Reds, who still have 34 players in their major league camp. 
*PHOTOGRAPHERS* 
THE OBSERVER is organizing next year's photo sta:ff (JKUd !J06ilimt) PPLICA TIONS -name and phone 
--work and photo experience -some example of previous work -drop off at 3rd floor LaFortune b_y 3/30 
ALL PRESENT PHOTGRAPHERS 
game as well as fastbreak, and has won 29 of its last 35 games decided by seven points or less. 
"We played 34 games this year. I haven't seen a hunch ofApaches that weren't disciplined in those 34 games," he said. "We played a team similiar to Indiana in Mississippi." 
Ole Miss, coached by former In· diana assistant Boh W eltlich, lost to LSU by four and seven points during the regular SEC season. 
In assessing his team and answer­ing a variety of questions, Brown, dubbed a Billy Graham in tennis shoes by some writers because ofhls rosy outlook, was his usual op· timitic, upbeat self. 
Asked the one aspect of the Final Four he didn't like, Brown paused and replied, "Can I get that man's name?" After another long pause and a searching look, he answered, "Nothing." 
Star senior forward Rudy Macklin, who injured the finger on his non-shooting hand in tht· regional final Sunday while scoring 21 points, returned to practice yesterday and will wear a splint on tht· finger Satur­day. 
Reaching the Final Four was much different than ht· anticipated and "a rather humbling experience." 
"The elation is not as high as I t'X· 
pected," he said. "It's something I 
dreametl of and read about a.~ a kid 
back in North Dakota." 
His personal preparations for tht· 
Final Fvur have concentratetl on 
eliminating distractions, such as 
trying to stay away from gt·tting in­
volved in getting tickt·ts and reserva­
tions for fans and friends. 
LSU has no problem being cast as either the underdog or tht· favorite. One Las Vegas line has his dub the favorite, hut other oddsmakers are picking Indiana hy four in tht· semi­final game. 
"I don't know how anybody can be an underdog in tht· elite lidd of the Final Four," he said. "Underdog or favorite. It's what you makt· it." 
Sports Staff ... 

Important Meeting!!! 
Tonight, 6:30 

Spring Concert NOTRE DAME CONCERT BAND 
THURS· MARCH 26th A.C.C. 
Uniuersity of Notre Dame Admission free 8:15 pm 

Ask Peace Corps volunteers why they travel to Africa, Asia and Latin America to work with farmers, teachers, and trades people. Ask VISTA volunteers why they work for a year organizing poor people in their American neighborhoods. They'll probably say they want to travel. help people, see 
new places and meet different people. Ask someone who's been there. 
Register Now at the Placement Bureau for Interview: 
If the 24-9 Booskrs get hy 31· 3 
April 7 & 8 

Louisiana State on Saturday, they 
MUST REAPPLY 
will play dther Virginia or North 
~~~ so0-62 1-367oJsrA
, Carolina on Monday night for the 
An_y questions call John at 1715 or 3106
NC.A ' ··rown. Indiana has won three 
/ 

' The Observer Thursday, March 26, ·1981 -page 10 
! 
.. . Faust 

continuedfrom page 12 
When people make such com­
parisons, they do so based on Faust's 
charisma since he is still new on the 
job. But the new coach has had one 
major accomplishment since arriv­
ing at Notre Dame -he put togeth­
.er what recruiting experts are 
calling the best recruiting class as­
sembled by any school this year. 
Of the 26 high school seniors that Notre Dame recently signed to na-· tiona! letters-of-intent, 13 were selected to the All-America team of 
Parade magazine, the publication considered by many to be the most accurate in picking such teams. Nine of the recruits were consensus All­America selections. Not bad for a 

Gerry Faust 
.NIT 

continuedfrom page 12 
points for-Purdue, and Mike Scearce, who had 14, were among the Boiler­makers with baskets in overtime. Morris's two freethrows gave Purdue a 7 3-6 7·1ead with I 7 seconds remaining in overtime. 
Purdue, which finished its season with a 21-11 record, led by as many as 12 points in the first half and hd a 38-31 lead at the intermission. But West Virginia, 23-10, passed the Boilermakers at 50-49 on Russel Todd's basket with 9:13 left in regulation. 
After Todd's basket, there were nine more lead changes and four ties 
..... 
before the game went into overtime. 
Todd and Vic Herbert paced the Mountaineers with I 6 points apiece while Greg Jones and Donnie Gip­son had I 2 and I 0, respectively. Jones and Gipson scored all their points after halftime. 
Purdue took a I 2-2 lead in the first five minutes and twice led by as many as I 2 points in the first half. 
A three-point play by Herbert, who scored I 2 of his points in the first half, brought West Virginia within 12-I 1 but Purdue went on a I6-5 run to take a 28-16lead and the Boilermakers later led 32-20 before the Mountaineers cut the margin at halftime. 

[Girl's Bookstore Basketball! 
~ 
I I I 
I 
I' 
'... 
~·.~ .. 
" 
'/.-'. ·:­
,I·. 
SIGN-UPS 
First 32 teams 
Thursday night 7 -9 pm 
443' lewis Hall 
5 girls per team ---• 

NEW CHAUTAUQUA COFFEEHOUSE 
in the Ballroom of Lnfortune 
This weekendi 
Blues Gteat Eddie Shaw 
with specinl guest stnr 
Ellen fficllwaine 
fnmous femnle vocnllst 
Ftiday and Satutday 2 shows ­
9:30 and ffiidnight 
ndmlsslon Sl.OO nt the door 
:\; 
"high school" coach that was con­sidered to be inexperienced when it came to battling the big boys in major college recruiting. 
"I think I had a hidden advantage a lot of people didn't realize in the aspect that our school was so heavily recruited by college coaches," Faust says. "I was on the other end for so long that I really learned a lot that many college coaches don't learn. That's because they always see it from one side, and now I've seen it from both sides. 
"From that standpoint it might have been a real advantage coming from where I came from." 
But Faust quickly adds that there is much more to it than that. "I really surrounded myself with quality people -people that can recruit and people that are outstanding football coaches. I think a real plus was the people remaining on the staff that we hired (five returnees, including recruiting coordinator 
Brian  Boulac)  are  excellent  
recruiters  as  well  as  excellent  
coaches."  

While many people are raving about the talent that Faust is bring­ing to Notre Dame, the most interesting story of his recruiting ef­forts deals with a high school All­American that ended up going elsewhere. 
"We had promised this kid the scholarship when he left here from making his visit," Faust relates. "We went to his home and went upstairs to get ready to sit down and talk to him. We got up there and the stereo was playing. His mom went to turn it off out of courtesy, and he sort of gave her a little shove and said, 'Don't touch that.' 
"So I just gave him a gentle forearm in the ribs and told him not to talk to his mother that way. As we sat down and talked we were able to manipulate him to give us the scholarship back without causing any embarrassment. 
"It's just not the kind of kid you want playing in your football program. There's no room for kids like that at the University. And he'll probably be a great one in college.'' 
That's the same thing a lot of people are saying about Faust. 


• 

Virginia bead coach Terry Holland says bts 7-4 center Ralph Sampson (above) isn't a one-man show, but the Cavaliers certainly will be countinng on him Saturday in theirNCAA semifinalagainst conference rival North Carolina. 
Va. and Carolina: an ACCshowdown 
By LEE LINDER  played  at  the Spectrum Saturday,  
Associated Press  with the championship game Mon­ 
day night.  
PHILADELPHIA -"It's a humbling  "All four of us are on top of the  
experience," North Carolina Coach  mountain," Smith said in a telephone  
Dean Smith said Wednesday about  news  conference  in  which  his  
making it to the Final Four of the  competing  colleagues  also  par­ 
NCAA basketball tournament.  ticipated. "I wish all coaches had this  
The  semifinals,  with  North  opportunity."  Neither Smith, Vir­ 
C:Jrolina facing Vir¢nia and I~diana against Louisiana State, will be  1  ginia's Terr;• Holland, ISU's Dale Brown and Indiana's Bobby Knight  
expected the last two games oftheir  

long season to be easy, and none 
predicted victory. 

No one assumed the role of 
favorite or underdog. 

Both acknowledged, however, 
• • .Devine 

continuedfrom page 12 
It would have been easy to go with a more experienced player, especially since T Devine knew he wouldn't be around in 1981 to reap the benefits of Kiel's baptism in fire. Instead, he went with the talented, untried rookie. 
Devine· nods in silent agreement when reminded ofall this, saying on­ly that although he may have surprised some of the critics, he didn't consider his actions anything out of the ordinary. 
Gerry Faust will open spring practice Saturday on Cartier Field, and with an eye on Notre Dame's 16 returning starters, many experts will expect Notre Dame to claim the 1981 national crown. 

It's a long haul from spring drills and rosy previews to the McArthur Bowl, and if the Irish make it, Faust will undoubtedly have done a tremendous job in his first season. 
But it's no secret that you can't win without the horses, and even though Gerry Faust will be the jock­ey, he'll be riding Dan Devine's thoroughbreds in 1981. 
that they have trimmed some time 
from daily practice sessions, which 
generally run less than two hours. 

The Virginia-North Carolina matchup will be the third meeting this season between the clubs, with Virginia ( 28-3) rallying to beat the Tar Heels ( 28-7) in the first two games. 
"I would expect North Carolina to put In a lot of defensive changes to try to bottle up ( 7 -foot-4) Ralph Sampson," said Holland. "But Sampson is not a one-man show." 
Smith said his team is "now playing with more confidence, but Virginia also is playing better." 
/ 


"n ~a~. • 
(~~-'fm'"
Gentlemen, 
J,j8 

The FRANCISCAN FRIARS invite you to a LIVE -IN EXPERIENCE with them during the month of April. Come join us for a weekend, or make arrangements for a few days during the week. 
For your reservation or for further information contact 
Friar Richard or Friar William St. Anthony Novitiate 1316 W. Dragoon Trail Mishawaka, IN 46544 
(219) 255-2442 

Sports,cB=r=i=e&ifJ=s====~==========T=h=ur=sd=a=y,=M=a=rc=h=z=6,=1=9s=1==Pa=g=e=11:::~ 
by Tht: ObJt•rt·rr .111J The A rrouated Pn11 
ABookstore Basketball meetitigwill be held 
next Friday (April 3) in the Library Auditorium at 6 p.m. Rules and schedules will be distribllled at that time. One representative for each H·am Is required at the meeting. AI t Jwaiting list teams that were ad­mitted into the tournament must bring their $2 at this time. First round games begin Monday, Apri16. -­
Another recruithas signed a letter ofintent to play foot­hall for Coach Gerry Faust at Notre Dame this fall. Mike Richerson, the 26th and final signee, is a 6-foot-I, I85 pound flanker/defensive back from Kirksville, Mo. 
The Irish lacrosse team pummeled Purdue 17-4 
17-4 yesterday In a scrimmage under game conditions at Cartier Field. 
The Irish were paced by sophomore Steve Pearsall's five goals and 
senior Bob Durgin's five assists. The Irish stickmen face Michigan In 
Ann Arbor on Saturday afternoon before embarking on their Midwest 
Lacrosse Association schedule next week. They are 1-1 in regular 
season games thus far. 
lnterhall meetings for baseball, graduate softball and men's and women's soccer will he held today. The soccer meeting is scheduled for 4: I 5 p.m., followed by graduate softball and baseball at 4:45p.m. All meetings will he In the ACC auditorium and attendance is mandatory. 
The ND-SMC Salling Club is beginnnirng its spring season as host to the MCSA Icebreaker Regatta this weekend on St. joe's Lake. Approximately twelve other universities will be represented. The regatta, which is the Sailing Club's major event ofthe year, will begin at 9 a.m. on Saturday and last until approxiately_3 p.m. on Sunday. Anyone who would like to come to the boathouse and watch the proceedings is welcome. Also, there will be a Regatta Prep Party for all old members and any prospective new members from 2 
p.m. to 5 p.m. at the boathouse on Thursday. The club's weekly meeting wiU also be held on Wednesday at 6:30p.m. In 203 O'Shag. 
lnterhall tennis registration deadline is approaching. Each dorm should enter a team consisting of four singles players and two doubles teams. Grad school tennis consists ofsingles competition only. The entry deadline is March 31. 
Sugar versus Trash Man 
SYRACUSE, N.Y. (AP) -Sugar 
Ray Leonard defends his World 
Boxing Council welterweight title 
Saturday night against Larry Bonds, a 
garbage collector from Denver 
whose career has been plagued by 
problems getting fights. 
"I'm just happy to have the oppor­
tunity to he the other guy," Bonds 
said yesterday as he prepared for his 
first world title match. 
Bonds has not fought since he 
knocked out Costello King in Puerto 
Rico nearly a year ago. He was con­
templating retirement when the of­
fer to challenge Leonard came 
through.· 

"I was frustrated," Bonds said. "I told my wife in january that ifsome­thing did not come in the next six months I would seriously think of quitting." . 
Bonds says he has no con~ections in the fight business, is not well known and suffers from the general unpopularity ofleft-handed fighters. 
To stay active, Bonds said he has 
fought out ofhis weight class several 
times. 

He says he docs not know how he ended up fighting for Leonard's title. "I think things just fell into place," 
he said. 

Despite the inactivity, Bonds is ranked fifth in the world by" tbe WBC. He won two national Golden Gloves titles as an amateur and, as a professional, won the Nevada cham­pionship in the welterweight and junior middleweight classes. The 29-year-old fighter has a 29-3 profes­sional record. 
"First ofall, I have to pruve myself worthy of being in the ring with the champion. No matter what happens, if he wins or I win, I have to prove I am worthy and maybe things will fall into place for me so I can get some more fights," he said. 
"This is the first time I've encoun­tered so many people paying so much attention to me. I can't let that 
Reds top Orioles 
TAMPA, Fla. (AP) -Mario Soto, ters and walked two. He has not still unscored upon in three ap­allowed a run in 14 innings for the pearances this spring, set the Bal­Reds, 8-S. timore Orioles down with no hits in Griffey's third-inning single off six innings Wednesday as the Cin­Baltimore starter Dennis Martinez, cinnati Reds won 3-2 in exhibition 1-1, drove in Dave Collins after a 
baseball. walk, a balk and a passed ball put Ken Griffey and German Barranca Collins on third base. rapped two hits apiece for Cincin­
See REDS, page 9 
nati. Soto, 2-0, struck out eight bat-go to my head and forget what ! am supposed to do in tht· fight." 
The $8'5,000 Bonds will bt• paid is 583,'500 more than he ever has received for a fight. 
"That's already gone. It's going in­to a savings fund for my three kids. They will need it more than ! do," he said. "! can always go back to my 

,----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------, 
Al 1 1

•' -ts..,,f,tH~ ,tfl:-, 11 ,!Jill ht! ll't e•I.W1 hv 4 45 U n• IWU dd~S ~'HtC1' '0 ~hf' 
.....~IJt' J\ Whlt'l1 rt•(~ i.J.l .s rtJrl-Thu Observer Olftt~ ·'.<·II .-.ccPpt ~·.~SSITteds M•HHl.t, Ttlrouon F: •. ta\1 , r) 00 ,, '' •u 4 45 p ,,.•\11 \·tass•lleds ""nust he
Classifieds 
Prt··p.11rt. l"olhr.r ,n 1 t!rc;nn c,. throu~'l :hP. mdrl 

USED & OUT-OF-PAINT BOOKS bought, sold. searched ERASMUS BOOKS. lues-Sunday, 12-6. 1027 E. Wayne (One block south ol Eddy· Jelleraon tntersectton) 
INSTANT CASH PAID FOR CLASS RINGS $20-$85 OR MORE. WE MAKE HOUSE CALLS. 255·2402 
PROFESSIONAL TYPING Conventent lo Notre Dame. 272·7623. 
............. 

OVERSEAS JOBS Summer-year round. Europe, S.Amer.. Auatralta. Aata. All llalda $500·$1.200 monthly Stght-tng. Fr"" Info. Wrtle IJC. Bo• 52-IN-4, Corona Del Mar. CA 92625. 
A atudy ta being conducted on com­panoet th-' sell TEAM PAPERS. If you are a lludenl who has lurned In one ol these papers. or a professor who has received one please call Pat at1728. All calls wtll be CONFIDENTIAL. 
Don't mtaa JULIA lhts Wed. and Thurs. at 7. 9 and 11 pm In Engr. Audtlorlum 
Wtll pay cash VW bugs rusted. waffled. roaaled, blown 272-5453 
MORRISSEY LOAN FUND Sentflr& can no longer apply. Last day lor underclassmen to apply ts Thrsday Apr!l2. 
WILL DO TYPING. CALL287-5162. 
VOTE lor the OSCAR wtnning ltckell 
Volunteers needed lor water safety sessions for handicapped at Logan No certlllcallon neceaaary-good swim­mers only. II Interested attend March 30 meellng at Red CrouCenler 3220 E. Jelleraon at7:30 PM or contact Volun­teerServtcea01fice.l.5 LaFortune Cen­ter (7308) lor more detatls 
1LOST/FOUND] 
LOST: BLUE CANVAS WALLET in ACC men's locker room. 3-10-61. PLEASE' return wallet. or more Importantly, Its contents (my ID. license,etc) to either the Psychology dept ollice in Haggar Hall. or the Counseling Center (4th floor Ad Bldg)·-KEEP the cash con­tents as a reward, I Just want my !D's, elclll NO QUESTIONS ASKED. II you have Into about Its whereabouts. please contacl Chuck Lepkowsky at 
17t6 days, or 289-5964 nights. 
"ouNo:P.l:if'lcil'i..AotE:sal.AssEis iN 
ETS THEATRE CALL 1829 AND ASK FOR NIKKI. 
.......... 

LOST Volkswagen car keys. Please call 89t4 
FOUND: Before Break. a BROWN WAAM·UP TOP, In the Volunteer Sevices van, call Mike at1652. 

Furnished 4 bedroom house tor next school year close to campus. good area, 277-3&04 or 288-0955. 
Summer houses and rooms. lurnished. walk to campus. cheap rent. 277-3604 or 288-0955. 
Available for tall --3&5 bedroom house tn walking, dtstance of campus. For details call alter 6pm. 232·3284 
................................ 
FOR RENT-UGLY DUCKLING AENT­A·CAA FROM $7.95 A DAY AND 7 CENTS A MILE. PHONE 259-UGLY FOR RESERVATIONS. 
................................................................ 
6 bedrooms. $100-mo. each. Each has door lock and lavatory. Community living room & kitchen. Fully furnished. 2 baths. Bicycle storage. Free washer & dryer. Clean. Rated superior. Box2513, South Bend 46680. 
AVAILABLE NEXT SCHOOL YEAR 2 FIVE BEDROOM HOUSES, NEAR NO, LEASE. DEPOSIT. 23-4·2626 
Housebroken C.rtoonist needs Aoom.roommates,etc. tor first semes­ter next year ... call Mtchael fNS... whlle NEED AIDE TO U. OF I. (URBANA) THIS FAIDAY-3-27. AICH-1594. 
Wanted: Player lor BOOKSTORE team ot good caliber. People under 611. need not apply. Call Batal3000. 
.. ...... WANTED: cheap six-string guitar. I'm not picky. Cali 2956. 
··················· ......................................... NEED AIDE BACK TO ND FROM D.C. AREA MONDAY AFTER EASTEA-4-20. Will HELP WITH GAS. CHAIS-1595. 
Wanted-Atde to Philadelphia or vicinity somelil'le between this thurs. and sun. (march 26-29) call mlke.283­180t 
Riders needed to PHILL Y lor Fri. 27. Call232-7679 

DISCOUNT Mus I Sell Now 5 Cases Top Qualtty Pool Chlorine Tablets 277-8561 
35mm Camera-Mamiya-Sekor MSX 
500. Includes 50mm. 135 telephoto and 2X teleconverter. All cases Included. $250.00. Call8702. 
TICKETS 

I need 3 (that's three) graduation tick­ets. (Yes, folks, It's starling already.) II you can help me, call Scoopat1772. 
I PERSONALS I 
Ann landers says: Have a problem? Can't sleep? Can't work? Can't? Killed anyone recently? Constipated? Fall down and go boo­boo? Well, all you have to do ts GET COUNSELING! 
BUMPEAST!CKEA 

(1) 
WHEN YOU SAY NOTRE DAME, YOU'VE SAID IT ALL 

(2) 
WHEN YOU SAY IRISH. YOU'VE SAID IT ALL 


First there was Jell Jellers Then there was Cro-magnon man Then there was Neandrathal man (These are actually the current UMOC rankings) 
Vote March 30-CLASS OF '64: L YNCH·Pres. SCAIBNEA-V.P. ROSS-Sec. AADZIKINAS-Treas. LET THE GOOD TIMES ROLLI 
..................... 
Sheep Shot Saloon Schlonghorns II. 
For a great jr. year· Vote Haling, Nairn, Noland & lindquist: They'll go out on a !lmbtoryoull 
......... ............. • ..........,4...... . 
Class ol '83 Vote Haling. Nairn Noland. Lindquist tor the year ot your life !II 
Slippery Liz and Crumbs are Fun Lynn. Buller and Bondage forever! Need I say more? S&M 
SMC students ... Have ideas or suggesltons that you 
want something done about? Come to the Student Forum. Thursday, March 26th at 6:00p.m. And talk to your student gov't. 
SMC clubhouse 
SMC STUDENT FORUM tonight alB p.m. in the clubhouse~ 
lnleresled in Law? The SMC Pre-Law Society is sponsor­Ing a practice, LSAT test for all in­terested SMC·ND juniors on Sunday March 29th. Sign up by Thursday. Call Dr. Brisbin (4925) lor further details. 
Don't wrile Ann Landers ... 
bring your problems lo the SMC STUDENT FORUM. Thursday March 26th at 6 p.m. in the SMC clubhouse. 
........ ..................... SMC commissioners will soon be fill­ing their cabtnet positions Star! think­tng now about how you'd like to become involved. "' 
...... ........................ THE CIRCUS IS COMING I ...............................,..................... . THE CIRCUS IS COMING I 
........••.•••..•••.•.••••••••••••...••••1...................... 
Jell Jailers is so ugly. he knows it! 
TUTORS NEEDED: 
1.Adull in Baste Math. 
2.H.S. sophomore, Geometry Contact Volunteer Services. 7308. 

Senior Formalbid for sale. Cheep (So's my date!) Calf Mike 1795. 
help I need a room lor gradualton weekend. II you have an extra. call Tim al233-5422. 
M. Munsell: have a super week celebrating your birthday .... from Mom and the campus viewers 
FOR SALE: One Senior Formal Bid­$50. Call David at233-3658 alter 7 p.m. 
WILLIAM JUSTIN KICA, 
Thank youl Thank you I Thank you! 
This was the best birthday I've had yell! 
Everything lrom Tippecanoe, Preppy 
Book, to the sur-prise party! If you will 
recall, tt lett me speechless. I was truly 
SURPRISED! You made me so very 
happy! 
Thanks lor keeptng my morale up about grad schools, JObs and home. 1 really needed that most this semester. You always make the lime lo llslen even when you don·t have lito spare. YOU'RE THE GREATEST! I LOVE YOU I 
LOVE. MARIE 
Dear Ltzzy. 
What can I say? You and Bill sure pulled a surprise on mel! Thank youl You lett me totally speechless! The party was great: the sign speaks lor it­sell; and the pix I'll keep forever!!! You're a great friend, LIZZY! Always keep in touch I 
LOVE Mane ...................................... VOTE lor the OSCAR winning ticket! 
................................. 
YOU POOR THING E'O...I NEVER SEND PERSONALS HUH? 
........................... 
FRIDAY NITE OLDIES PARTY !II 
7-9 P.M. O.~WSND-AM64. THE BEST MUSIC FROM THE 50s. 60s, and 70slll AEO\.JESTS FOR YOUR FAVORITE MU~ ::AT 6400. 
............................t •... 
VOTE tor THE OSCAR winntng tickell 

JIM KEENAN. Happy 21 I rom your Ctnnamon Bear! 
Eddie. 
Happy 24th! 
Love. 

Daddy·s Playmate. 7 cents Sam and 
Cathy Cupcakes 

Don.I miss JULIA lhts Wed. and Thurs. at 7. 9. and 1 t pm in Engr. Audttorium 
311 BP WHIP IT---WHIP IT GOOD 
The FCC has bannedJtm Goode You·u never see htm on TV dotng the sports Jim Goode lor UMOC 
Anne. 

We all hope you have a fantasttc btrlhday-alter all. •t could be the last one we celebrate wtth you (You deltn· quent. you) 
Love. Mary. Et. Mary Stobhan. Aoelin, Beth and Diane 
Q: 
What tS the great rallytng cry tn Yukon battles? 

A. 
Remember the Alamoose!? (All's latr •n love and watl) 


Moose Control The Vantans must be purged They shall annoy me no longer 
Who do bunntes and law schools !Ike? Scott-who-never-had·a·personal· and-now-has-had-two. CONGAATSIII 
Today 
I 
only: No Classifleds will be 

supply lasts I HEY TONY BELDEN. 
$2.00 each. Send check or money or·
LOST A green notebook contalntng 
accepted

Nice rendering of Beetle Bailey 11 But To the 200 students that marched Mon­
derto:

biology notea. Thtels cruclallo my biol­
day to protest the El Salvador situalton. 
wasn't I he house justa little big?????
IRISH 

ogy courae sa well eo the MCAT. If 
...... how many ol you will be carrying signs 
P.O. BOX 3364

found pleaae return to 305 Sorln hall or 
after

RAY QUINTON! What did you do the and prolesttng during grad. weekend
CHAPEL HILL. N.C. 275 f 4 

I \
WANTED
call 8542 and collect a handsome 
when I he president will be hera 1 What
other night with that gerbil head !hal

reward DESPERATE. 
wtll you do? Stop believing just tor that 
BRAD HAUSER had bitten oil? Is i1 true 
noon

H~l~i N~d f ~r 2 housemates (OC)Ior NEW WAVE BAND 
weekend? That is when you should
that you both skipped gleefully over the 

FOUND. Some money near La Fortuna next year. Call Scott, 6821 or Ed. 288· BARNABAS 
make II matter most! HOW MUCH DO
turtle heads together? You silly

during break Call Bob 23-4-6293 8726 THIS SATURDAY NIGHT 
YOU AEALL Y CARE? 
,boyslllllllll!

.....................................~ ......~ .................. 
. ~....................................................~..···; .......,........................................................ 


------------~~ -~ 
Thursday, March 26, 1981 -page 12
Sports 
Tulsa nips Syracuse in OT for NIT title 
NEW YORK (AP) Greg Stewart's twisting layup with 30 seconds left in overtime gave Tulsa an 86-84 victory over Syracuse and the championship ofthe National In­vitation Tournament last night. 
Only six points were scored in the five-minute overtime period, forced when Erich Santifer of Syracuse 
scored at the buzzer to end regula­
tion time at 82-82. 

Tulsa's David Brown, who scored 
18 points, and Sean Kerins of 
Syracuse traded two free throws 
apiece in the overtime before 
Stewart's winning shot. Syracuse 
freshman Gene Waldron missed a 
1 5-foot shot with three seconds 
remaining. 

Stewart had 23 points to lead 
Tulsa, which finished with a 26-7 
record under first-year Coach Nolan 
Richardson after going 8-19 last 
season. The 6-foot-9 junior center 
was named the 44th annual tourna­
ment's Most Valuable Player. 
A 17-2 run by Syracuse wiped out 
a 54-46 Tulsa lead in the second half, 
giving the Orangemen, who finished 
the season 22-12, a 63-56 lead with 
12:48 remaining in· the second half. But the rally was defused when Syracuse starters Dan Schyes and Leo Rautins picked up their fourth personal fouls. 
Shortly thereafter, Tulsa scored 11 points in a· row, including seven by Stewart, to take a 69-65 lead with 
7:03 left. The final point ofthe spree was a free throw by Stewart after Schayes was whistled for his fifth 
foul. 

Mike Anderson, who scored 17 points for Tulsa, had seven in the final four minutes of regulation time but he missed the first of a one-and­one with eight seconds left to allow 
Where is he now? 
Dan Devine is accustomed to doing a lot oftraveling during February and March, so I98l was not unlike most other years for the 56-year-old grandfather. 
But it wasn't quite the same. Well-wishers didn't in­quire how Devine thought he'd do next year as much as they asked what he thought he'd do next year. He'd answer, though, with that familiar noncommittal response -~·11 just have to see. 
There were other differences, too. Instead ofseeking signatures -those belonging to the best high school football players in the country -Devine spent much of his time honoring autograph requests. And the itinerary was a little out ofthe ordinary as well. It had been quite a while since Notre Dame had recruited a football player from the Caribbean. 
No, it hardly has been a typical three months for Devine, ever since Notre Dame lost the last game ofthe Dan Devine Era, I 7-10, in the Sugar Bowl. Actually, the craziness goes all the way back to mid-August, when Devine told his assistants and players "no mas". 
He was pushed -no, he jumped. He would take a college athletic director-head coach job -no, he would return to the NFL. And finally, he begged for his job -no, he only wanted to bring his wife to Los An­geles for the Southern Cal game. 
Four months later, Dan Devine still doesn't know what he'll be doing in 1981. It's just that, now that Gerry Faust sits alone in the eye of the hurricane, nobody seems to want to know. 
On the rare days when Devine is in South Bend, he sits in an office on the ACC's second floor, hidden be­hind the Monogram Room. It's a rather unpretentious room, cluttered with boxes that contain the game balls, trophies and plaques that formerly adorned the office of Notre Dame's head football coach. 
He sits behind his desk after spending the noon hour playing tennis in the ACC fieldhouse, insisting for what-· must be the hundredth time, that he really doesn't know.what he'll be doing come September. Devine says
.. 
that he won't be coaching during the coming season, 
but allows that 1982 is a different story -although it won't be in the college ranks. 
Santifer's tying basket at the buzzer. 
Santifer and Tony Bruin, the third 
Syracuse starter to foul out in regula­

tion time, were brilliant for the · 
Orangemen, scoring 29 and 25 
points, respectively. 
Tulsa led 48-42 after a race-horse first half during which Stewart scored 14 points and Brown 12 for the Golden Hurricane. 
Syracuse was bothered by Tulsa's pressing defense and fell behind 9-2. But Rautins scored six points in the next 90 seconds to help cut Tulsa's margin to I3-12. Then the Golden Hurricane quickly took a 27·I8lead and had that nine-point advantage on three other occasions before sweeping to its biggest first-halflead, 43-32, on a basket by freshman cen­ter Bruce Vanley with 2:56 left. 
But Santifer, who scored 10 ofhis 
14 first-half points in the final 4:-ii, 
led a 10-2 Syracuse surge to cut 
Tulsa's margin to 45-42. 
Before Schayes and Rautins 


picked up their fourth fouls, Syracuse ignited the Madison Square Garden crowd of I7,801 with a 23­I 0 explosion ·in the first nine minutes of the second half. During that period when Syracuse never stopped running, Bruin had nine points and Santifer eight. 
In the consolation game played 
Editor's note: Today The Ob­
earlier last night, Drake Morris 

server continues its look at new scored 18 points, includin~ two 
Notre Dame football coach Gerry
clinching free throws in overtime, as 

Faust in the third of a four-part
Purdue captured third place with a 
series. 
75-72 victory over West Virginia. Five different Purdue players 
By PAUL MULLANEY 
scored two points apiece in the ex­
Sports Writer 
tra period after the game was tied 65-65 at the end of regulation time. 
For Gerry Faust, spring football 
Keith Edmonson, who had l 7 

·couldn't have arrived any sooner. See NIT, page 10 Three months have gone by since Faust first sat behind a Notre Dame 
: 

"I can tell you for certain that if rever coach again, it won't be at another college," he says. "After coaching ~t Notre Dame, I couldn't possibly go to another schooU' 
The talk soon turns to the I980 season, and it is ob­vious that Devine has difficulty expressing himself about his final season under the Golden Dome. 
When asked, Devine admits that the 1980 squad is specialto him, even more than his 1977 National Charft­pionship team. That team, as marvellously talented asiit was, merely did what it was expected to do. But trye 1980 Irish personified the underdog image that ep­deare~ Notre Dame to so many in the days of ytjs­teryear. 
And there is something else about Devine's final Notre Dame team. It was just that -Devine's team. After the 1977 season, the wolves howled that he h'ad won all the marbles with Ara Parseghian's team, con­veniently ignoring the fact that Devine was in his tb,lrd season at Notre Dame. i 
Nobody, though, could tarnish the 1980 season. But even more to Devine's credit, he gave countless young players a chance to play. When sophomore Phil Carter edged seniorJim Stone after a heated battle for the tail­back spot, Carter got the opening day nod. Devine:gave junior flanker Mike Boushka plenty of game time even though Boushka was listed behind Notre Dame's most underrated player, senior Pete Holohan. 
The clincher, though, was at quarterback. After start­ing the final nine games of the season, freshman Blair Kiel may well have__been the best quarterback on the squad. But at any r:>te, it was a gamble on Devine's part. 
See DEVINE, page 10 
desk. Three months of recruiting 
travel, three months of interviews, 
three months of constant phone 
calls, three months of speaking 
engagements. 

It's no wonder that Faust is 
anxiously anticipating Saturday's 3 
p.m. opening of spring practice (open to the public at Cartier Field). And although he won't be delving in­to any game plans or detailed strategy, Faust will at leaSt be able to calm his itch to be on the field for the first time in "the only job I would have left Moeller (High School in Cincinnati) for." 
Nevertheless, the fiery new coach has already sparked excitement across campus and in the South Bend area Faust has spoken at most of the residence halls on campus, addressed business luncheons, visited hospitals and retirement homes, and spoken to elementary school students -just to name a few of the things that have kept him busy. 
"I really did my best to hit as many of them as I could," says Faust. "But now with practice starting, I'm just going ito have to cut back on those appearances. And then after the spring, the family will be moving up here, iand I'm definitely going to reserve a certain amount oftime for them." 
Fau~t has been living in a campus hotel iroom while the new family homd is being built in the Knol­lwood subdivision of South Bend. His ~ife, Marlene, and their three children remained behind in Cincin­nati in order to allow the children to complete the academic year with­out .transferring schools. And it hasn',t been easy on Faust. 
"They talk about the pressure of this jo!J, but the tough part for me has been being separated from the family," says Faust, who has been calling home daily. "We've got a real close family. You realize how much they mean to you when you've been away from them. I always knew that, but this has reinforced that." 
Not only has it been tough for Faust to temporarily move away from the family, but the new Irish coach expects it to be even tougher for his wife to move away from Cininnati. 
"She's lived there for 41 years," he says. "This is the toughest thing in 
the world for her. She has never had 
to move out ofCincinnati." 

According to her husband, Mrs. Faust is only willing to move to South Bend because her children will be able to get an education at Notre Dame. "That's the only way she'll come," says the 45-year-old Faust. "I've had some other jobs of­fered to me, and she was really sweating because she didn't want to move. 
"And to tell you the truth, I don't know if she would have moved. I never had to find out, because I wasn't going to leave Moeller for any ofthose jobs." 
Marlene and her children are ex­
pected to join Gerry Faust after 
5C$ool is out in June. And when they 
arrive, they will find that Notre 
Dame's new head coach has had 
little trouble establishing himselfon 
the job. 

"He's off to a great start," claims administrative assistant Joe Yonto, the senior member ofthe Irish foot­ball staff. "He's been perfection in all regards -better than anyone could expect. I anticipate him becoming one ofthe greats here." 
Those words appear to be big ex­pectations, coming from someone who has worked under some of Notre Dame's best known coaches. Yonto played guard under Frank Leahy, coached defensive line under Ara Parseghian, and served as defensive coordinator under Dan Devine. 
"Leahy was called the 'Master,' Ara was known for his intensity, and Dan was known for his politeness and kindness," says Yonto. "Gerry's got all ofthat wrapped up in him in one. They had great things going for thenr, and Gerry's got them all." 
Nordy Hoffman, who played un­der the legendary Knute Rockne and roomed with former Athletic Direc­tor "Moose" Krause while at Notre Dame, also sang high praises of Faust. Last Saturday, at a luncheon honoring Faust held by the NO Club of Washington, D.C., Hoffman pointed to Faust and said, "The man sitting next to me is the closest thing Notre Dame may ever see to Knute Rockne. In fact, I think it's a dead heat." 
See FAUST, page 10 









