


~~~·~=======Y(=:l..=XV=l,N=f~.~4H
v -'IATURDAY, OCT<. :UER .~ •. 1')81 


Irish hope Middies are the answer 

Notre Dame struggling to regain winning ways 
By SKIP DESJARDIN 
Asststant Sports Edttor 
liard times may have befallen the Notre 
Dame football team, currently in the midst of 
its worst start in 18 years, but Navy football 
coach George Welsh says the Irish look as 
good as ever to him. 
At his weekly press n>nfercnce in Annapolis 
this week, Welsh said the only difference be­
tween this year's Notre Dame team, and its 2-4 
record, and the winning teams of the recent 
past is the outcome of the close games. 
"They arc the same Notre Dame team. They 
play the same way," Welsh said. "The dif­
ference is that in past years they've won the 
close ones. This year· they've lost the close 
ones." 
As Gerry Faust pointed in out in a press con­
ference of his own this week, Notre Dame is 
just 14 points away from a S-1 record, with a 
one-point loss to Purdue, a six-point dif­
ference against Florida State and a seven-point 
loss to Southern Cal last week. 
Navy meanwhile is riding a three-game win­
ning streak and boasting a 5-2 season record. 
Welsh was asked at his press conference ifthis 
was the year to beat Notre Dame. 
said if the Middies are to win this year, they must get more yardage out ofthe passing game. He also looks for them to get more rus­hing yardage out ofthe quarterback or ful­lback, taking pressure off the halfbacks. 
"I think Notre Dame's defense has played well for them for the most part. We have our work cut out for us again this week." 
Faust sees the going just as tough for the Irish. 
"Navy is a quick, solid ballclub," he says. "They've given everybody they've played problems. They are very aggressive and en­thusiastic. They play with a lot oft>motion and heart. 
"I'm really impressed with their defense. They get to the football. Their team pursuit is unbelieveable." 
Faust has seen one ofNavy's top offensive weapons first hand. Kicker Steve Fehr is a product ofCincinnati's Princeton High School. He also happens to be the top field goal kicker in the country. 
"He is the best, there's no doubt about it," 
says Faust. "Because ofFehr, Navy is a threat to 
score from just inside midfield." 
Welsh agrees, claiming there is no better 
kicker in the country."He's extremely consis­
tent. Actually, his record speaks for itself." 
See OUTLOOK, page IS 

Blair Kiel will lead the Irish offense again this week. Coach Gerry Faust says Kiel's run-

Navy Coach George Wets/J sees a tough game aheadfor theMiddies. 
"Maybe for some teams," he replied, "but 
not necessarily for us. 
"This is the biggcst team wc'll face this year. That offensive line is huge. They are physically stronger than Michigan." The week after Notre Dame was trounced by Michigan, the Wolverines were only able to pull out a nar­row 21-16 victory over the Middies. 
"That line is so big, we may be hard pressed to get off the blocks and tackle their backs," Welsh said. 
"We haven't been able to do that against Notre Dame for a long time. They've shoved the ball down our throats." 
Welsh, who was mentioned prominently 
among those in the running for the Notre 
Dame coaching job when Dan Devine 
resigned, said he thinks the Irish showed con­
siderable improvement in the loss to Southern 
Cal last week after Faust simplified his offense. 
"It looks as ifthey've gone back to some 
basics on offense, and they are doing a much 
better job of moving the ball." 
Navy has scon:d a total ofonly seven points 
against Notre Dame the last three years. Welsh 
Irish-Middies clashes memorable 
By LOUIE SOMOGYI 
Sports Writer 

Notre Dame vs. Purdue -"The backyard 
battle for the Shillelagh." 
Notre Dame vs. Southern California -"The 
greatest rivalry in college football." 
Notre Dame vs. Navy -"Yawn." 
Notre Dame fans tend to smirk when the 
Notre Dame-Navy game is mentioned as a 
great rivalry. For "rivalry" is defined as an even 
antagonism between two competitors. 
Since the Irish have won by an average mar­gin of 27 points in the last 17 consecutive yearsover the Middies, the battle between the two schools has seemed to be about as com­petitive as a snowball'schancesofsurviving in hell. About the only competition fans have been able to appreciate isseeing which unit of the Irish (first or second string) can put more points on the scoreboard. 
The I 7 straight victories that Notre Dame owns over Navy since 1964 is the most vic­tories in a row ever held by a Notre Dame football team over an opponent. 
The law ofavera~cs might be something to think about today , however, when the two teams tee it up for the 55th consecutive year -the longest intercollegiate rivalry in college football. And although Notre Dame's 44-9-1 record over the Midshipmen reflects a one-sided domination, the games between the two schools have evoked some memories in football lore for both schools. 
The year I928 was not exactly one to be 
treasured by either teams as the Naval 
Academy stumbled through a 5-3-1 campaign 
after having gone undefeated two seaons 
before, while Notre Dame Coach Knute 
Rockne was in the throes ofa 5-4 season under 
his "Minuteman Squad." 
"We'd be in the game one minute, and get 
blown out the next," as he used to say (See. 
Even the legend basked in the agony of 
defeat). 

On one October day at Soldier Field an un­official crowd of I20,000 (a college football record) packed the place to witness a 7-0 Notre Dame triumph in only the secondgame ever between the two schools. The actual paid attendance was I 0 3,08I, but in any case the foundation had been laid for a continuing series. 
Only two years later, Notre Dame again 
faced Navy and a large crowd. On October II, 
1930, Notre Dame Stadium was dedicated 
before a crowd of40,593, who saw a 26-2 
defeat ofNavy on that special day. 
"We played in the stadium with a great deal 
ofpride that day," said one ofthe stars of the 
Heisman trophy winners joe Bellino and Roger Staubach led Navy to wins over Notre 
game, Nordy Hoffman. "The stadium was Rock's. He had such a big impact on its design and construction. It's really a tribute to him; that's why the stadium is so great." 
Led by their "Football Hall of Fame" halfback Fred (Buzz) Borries, the Middies enjoyed two straight victories over the Irish at Baltimore and Cleveland in I933 and 1934. Navy would win again against Elmer La~en's third Notre Dame team in 1936 as theybegan to get Notre Dame's number. 
In the next 19 years, however, the Irish would win 17 ofthe games with the only 
See CLASHES, page 2 

The Irish Extra-Navy Saturday, October 31, 1981 -page 2 

Eddie Meyers surprised many people with his performance against Notre Dame two 
T"\\0 head coaches comment on makitlg the change 
desire to beat Notre Dame than Pittsburgh.
By DAVE IRWIN 
They face that against whoever they play."
Sports Writer 
Ask Michigan, who was looking ahead to the Notre Dame game and got beat by Wisconsin,Gerry Faust knows what it is like to fall from or Purdue, who lost to Minnesota. Both werethe top ofthe world. 
.conference games.

He came to Notre Dame with more fanfare The biggest reason, however, for Notrethan any coach in America has ever ex­Dame's unpredicted start is the transitionperienced. Fans and media personalities period that must be gone through. And yes, turned him into a re-born Knute Rockne Dan Devine was 8-3 in his first season, but itbefore he ever won a game at Notre Dame. 
took two greatjoe Montana comebacks or theIt was understandable with his outgoing Irish would have been 6-5. While Ara Parseg­personality and warmth. But now those Irish hian, a true Irish living legend, instantly wonfaithful have become the Irish doubters. And the hearts ofIrish fans by taking over a 2-7Keith Drum, of North Carolina'sDurham Hugh Devore team and turning it into a 9-1 Morning Herald, has even suggested that squad that came within 1:33 ofthe nationalFaust's fellow coaches are inwardly smiling at championship, Faust inherited only 16 start­his difficult start after the hype he received. 
ers and 38letter-winners overall from a squad·But Faust's counterparts have not written that was 9-2-1.
him off, although one can not really expect Besides the new offense, he made minornten in the same profession to be very critical changes in the defense and introduced newofeach other. It just isn't the polite thing to techniques and responsiblities to the players.
do. 
The coaching staff has four new assistant"I personally have great confidence in Ger­coaches out ofeight and only two ofthe retur­ry Faust as a man and as a coach," says nees are responsible for the men theyLouisiana State head coach jerry Stovall. "In coached the previous year. It is going to takemy humble opinion Gerry Faust will do a time for things to mesh, ifthey don't mesh in
tremendous job and is doing a tremendous the next two or three years then the boo-birds
job. Don't just judge him on the won-lost may have something to complain about.
record." 
"Gerry Faust is going through a normal"Things aren't going very well for him right transition period with older players," says now, but he'll turn it around," says Southern Bowden. "The guy has too much quality goingCal head coach jerry Robinson. "There was' for him and the school has too much qualitysometQing about the look in his eye after the not to turn things around. I know it will workgame that impressed the hell out of me." 
out. He !s recruiting his players and doing it
r 
Florida State's Bobby Bowden agrees. "I've his way." 
never seen a school make a perfect change. Its "It's not his fault and it's not Notre Dame's"going to take a while." 
continues Bowden. "I'm sure he'll overcom~There lies the key. It is going to take time. 
it. I don't know what the situation was withMake no doubt about it, something is wrong Ara, but young players will adjust sooner to a
when a Notre Dame football team is 2-4, racks up 312 yards in total offense against a defense See COACHES, page 15 like Southern Cal's and comes up with just 
Key matchup: Meyers, 
Crable face off today 
BySKIP DESJARDIN 
Assistant Sports Editor 
On November 3, 1979, Eddie Meyers made 
a name for himself. 
"Is that the guy's name?" asked Notre Dame 
linebacker Bob Crable after the game. "We 
hadn't prepared for him. We got ready for a 
team, not players." 
Injuries had plagued the Middies that 
season, and they were down to their fourth­
string tailback by the time they rolled into 
South Bend. 
"Ifthat \Vas their fourth-string guy, I sure 
don't want to see their top three," said Crable. 
"He is an excellenr back.' 
. Si_nce that day, Eddie Meyers has been a 
tamthar figure in the Navy backfield. He ran 
for lO I yards on 17 carries, and has been run­
ning ever since. Ifhe keeps up the pace, he 
may run right into the Navy record books. 
One thing is certain, however. He'll run into Bob Crable this weekend. 
"What a great running back," says Navy Coach George Welsh when asked about Meyers ability. "He has the strength, power, speed and is durable. I call him a great 'six­yard runner' because he bounces offpeople to get that extra yard." 
Crable, too, likes to bounce offpeople. He is creeping ever-closer to Bob Golic's records for most tackles in a career, is a sure-fire All­American and hates running backs. This weekend, he'll have a chance to beat up on one ofthe best. 

Eddie Meyers 

Meyers was an honorable mention All­America selection by the Associated Press last se~n. This year, he has been plagued by in­JUnes that kept him out ofone complete , game, and most oftwo others. Despite that fact, he is averaging 111 yards per game, having rushed for 666 yards so far. 
"I thank the Lord that they weren't serious injuries," Meyers says now. "He kept me injury-free in the past three seasons as well. I've been very lucky." 
He's also been very busy. He's carrying the ball more than ever before. 
"/setgoals, and with the help of the Lord, I am able to achieve them., 
"I feel good about that." Meyers says. "I am confident that I'm able to do the job. I love running the ball, and it's working out fine. 
Meyers makes it clear that he's not entirely pleased with his performance, however. There are some improvements he'd like to make. 
"I'd like to develop a greaterability to break a tackle and run more than 30 yards. Maybe make a few 50 or 60 yard runs." · 
Ifthat begins to happen with any regularity, Meyers may begin to throw a real scare in to Crable and his fellow linebackers. He's already gone 70 yards from scrimmage once this year. 
What's more, Irish coaches have been worried about the team's inability to stop those big plays. Each week, the long run or pass has proven to be their downfall. So it will be up to the linebackers, and Crable in par­ticular, to stop Meyers before he can get a full head ofsteam. Once he gets that momentum, he's hard to stop, and becomes almost like a fullback as he rumbles through holes in the of­fensive line. · 
Crable knows what· it's lik~ to have to bring Meyers down. He got a taste ofit two years ago when Meyers burst on the scene. 
"He runs hard," Crable said after that 1979 game. "It took two or three guys to bring him down on every play." 
Like Crable, Meyers was chosen by his. teammates as a co-captain. Welsh has pointed out on many occasions that. Meyers has a great knack for leadership. That is high praise when one considers the fact that Meyers is leading a group ofhighly trained and disciplined Navy midshipmen. 
"The offense revolves around.him," says ful­lback Timjackson. "Underour type of.offense; the fullback is the blocker, and it's up to Eddie to get the yards. We all have a great deal of confidence in him. It's impossible not to." 
Part ofinspiring confidence is having con­fidence in oneself. 

"I set goals, and with the help of the Lord, 1 am able to achieve them," Meyers says. "I put my trust in Him and what happens happens." 
This weekend, All-America linebacker Bob Crable wilfhave to stop All-America running back Eddie Meyers. Ifhe does, the Irish will win. If he doesn't, the Middies will walk away victorious. 
When two ofthe nation's best go head to head, whatever happens happens. 

seven points and twice has first-and-goal only to come away with naught. But there are many reasons for it, and not all 
• • • Clashes
the fault is Faust's. After all, there is not much separating the Irish from being 5-1. The 
second halfagainst Michigan is the only time span the Irish didn't belong on the same field with their opponent. 
"We are only 14 points away from 5-1," says Faust. "That's really something with the schedule we play." 
Faust isn't joking about the schedule. Notre Dame has lost to some pretty fair football teams in Florida State (5-2), Southern Cal ( 6­1 ), Purdue (5-2) and Michigan (5-2). All but Purdue are ranked and ifthe Boilermakers can win their last four games they too will be ranked and Rose Bowl bound. 
Besides being good football teams, the mere fact ofplaying Notre Dame seems to bring out the best in opponents, regardless of the rhetoric they may give you about the im­portance ofwinning their conference games. 
"Everybody wants to beat Notre Dame," says Bowden, whose Seminoles are indepen­dents along with the Irish. "I had a bigger 
continuedfrom page 1 

blemishes coming in 1944 and 1945 with by scores of 32-13 and 6-6. Another "Hall of Fame" halfback with a catchy nickname led 
Navy to prominen~e in those war years when 
Notre Dame had difficulties with military 
teams. Army may have had "Mr. Outside" and 
"Mr. Inside" but Navy had Clyde (Smackover) 
Scott. 

Again, after winning 10 straight games against Navy, the law ofaverages caught up with the Irish. The Middies made their own contributions in creating the "Dark Ages" for Notre Dame football. Between the years 1956-1963, Navy won five ofeight contests. 
Ofcourse, having players named joe Bel­lino and Roger Staubach didn't hurt Navy's chances any during that same era. 
While Notre Dame,had a comined record of 
5-14 during the years 1960 and 1963, Navy 
prdouced perfect 9-0 seasons during the 
regular season before losses in the Orange and 
Cotton Bowls prevented National Champion­
ships. 
In those same years Bellino and Staubach 
won the Heisman Trophy. The 1960 team 
with Bellino managed to squeeze by with a 14­
7 win in Philadelphia (where the Irish would 
continue to play on every other year against 
Navy till 1976), while the 1963 team behind 
Staubach was a more convincing 35-14 victor 
in Notre Dame Stadium as it marked the last 
time that a Navy team defeated the Irish. 
Since then, the closest Navy has come to lighting the victory cigar came in 1974 and 1976. 
I~ 1974, behind a gutsy defense led by con­sensus all-America Chet Moeller, and the "coffin-corner" punting of)ohn Stufflebeem, Navy jumped out to a 6-0 lead. Two touch­downs in the final six minutes ofthe game. 
however, helped Ara Parseghian's final squad to a 14-6 win. 
In 1976, Notre Dame· had to battle back from an early 14-3 defecit to rally tor a hard­fought 27-21 win as Luther Bradley inter­~epted a Navy pass on the last play ofthe game 111 the Notre Dame endzone. 
The 1976 game also marked the first· presentation ofthe "Waterford Glass Bowl" to the winner ofthe annual contest. The award is meant as a tribute to Don Miller (one of the immortal"Four Horseman") of Notre Dame, and "Rip" Miller (a member ofthe legendary "Seven Mules") of Navy. 

While the only time the "Waterford Glass Bowl" has been away from the Notre Dame trophy case over ~he last five years has been when it needed dusting, the Irish must be ever so wary again this weekend. The law of averages is on the Middies' side. 

~---·-----------~-------------~ 
VOL. XVI, NO. 48 an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and saint mary's SATURDAY, OCTOBER 31, 1981-page 3 
Ni:OOlanced by 1984 
Regan concedes budget failure 
WASHINGTON (AP)-Treasury Secretary Donald T. Regan conceded Friday that President Reagan Is unlikely to achieve his goal ofa balanced federal budget in 1984. 
Regan also confirmed that ad­ministration officials arc debating among themselves whether a large tax Increase to help close the deficit would be desirable,_ particularly in view ofthc recession. 
But he provided no hint of Reagan's views, saying he had not discussed the topic with Reagan in recent days. 
Appearing before the Senate Budget Committee, Regan said balancing the budget in 1984, a promise of the president's 1980 campaign, was "possible but not probable::." 
He later added that meeting the goal was not probable "without the help of Congress to make further budget cuts" and conceded that the reductions needed would be very difficult to achieve. 
Regan said the na~>ion is in for several more months of had economic news, but said that, "the current recession will be mild, its l~nd certain and swift." He predicted the: econvmy would begin rebound­ing from the reces11ion in late winter or early spring of next year. 
He said thl· tax cut voted this year would help the economy come out of the recession. He noted that inter­est rates hav~ declined. 
"More mortgage money should he available, with all that implies for residential construction industries," he said. 
But in the meantime, he said. "the prospect of a reccssitm means that the budget deficit may widen beyo!ld our projection." 
Reagan promised repeatedly in his campaign last year to balance the budget, and cited the goal earlier this year in urging Congress to ap­prow a deep round of spending cuts. 
But the Treasury Secretary's com-. ments were only the most recent in a string of private and public remarks by administration officials that the goal may be slipping out of reach. 
Reagan has asked Congress to ap­prove a three-year package of tax in­creases totalling S22 billion to help 


1966 team -page 12 
close the deficit. Regan said the But Regan said that balancing the proposals would be sent to the budget might not be as important for House and Senate later this year. the economy as showing a trend that 
Other than that, he said the ad­the budget is in control. ministration is still considering a By 1984, he said, the nation will long list of possible tax increases, have a $3.8 trillion economy. including increases in excise levies and Imposing an import fee on oil. Officially, the administration says "We have not come to any conclu­that without further action by sion" about whether to recommend Congress to raise taxes or cut spend­anything beyond the 522 billion ing, the deficit would be slightly plan, Regan told reporters after his below S59 billion in 1984. But public testimony. Budget Director David Stockman 
Some key Senate Republicans are said this week that a congressional calling for tax increases of as much estimate that the actual deficit as 570 billion over the next three would be SIOO billion was "not out years to help balance the budget. ofthe ballpark." 
N>tre Dame honors 
fonner Iranian·hostage 
By RICH COLLIS firmed that his greatest deprivation News Staff was the lack ofND football news. Although a University ofNebraska 
Before the National Anthem is graduate, Holland spent three years played today, Notre Dame will pay at Loras College of Dubuque study­tribute to former Iranian hostage ing for the priesthood. In addition to Col. Leland J Holland, a self­the Rockne medallion he will proclaimed Notre Dame buff who receive today, he is the holder ofthe spent scven and a half ofhis fourteen Distinguished Service Medal (the months as a hostage in solitary highest peacetime decoration) and confinement, longer than any other the Defense Meritorious Service military hostage. Medal for his service in Iran, as well 
With thl' blessing of the Univer­as the Legion of Merit, Bronze Star, sity, the ND Athletic ,Department Army Meritorious Service and Army invited Holland to attend the Notre Commendation Medals, and three Dame-Navy game. along with Ad-Air Medals with "V" for Valor. 
miral Thomas Hayward, chief. of==================================:;::============= Navy Operations, and the Superin­tendent of the Naval Academy, Vice Halloween 1938 Admiral Edward Waller. In a ceremony on the field of Notre Dame Stadium, NO Athletic Director 
Grovers Mill recalls radio hoax
Gene Corrigan will welcome Hol­land and his wife and present them 
By MICHAEL BEWEK motion" the night the program to pick her as the woman who was with a NO blanket and a special among the first of her sex to be per­
Associated Press Writer aired.
Knute Rockne medallion. 

mitted to hose down cows in a largc GROVERS MILL, N.J. (AP) -To about it. Now I tell them, you don't dairy operation. 
"But I'm just plain tired of talking 
Holland, a career military intel­
be sure, jack-o' -lanterns still grin give me no green stuffand you don't Her son, Oliver, prefers to talk
ligence offi(·er who has served in from front stoops here. Children still get nothing." 
about "War ofthe Worlds," althoughGermany, Italy and Vietnam as well he says he hopes "it's the last time." 
dress up as hobgoblins and witches Cora Sayler, 89, still sits in the
as Iran, was taken hostage on Nov. 4, "It's old hat. Beating a dead
-but not as Martians. same chair by the same window
1979, when Iranian students at­horse," he said. "People here are sick
Halloween is not the favorite where she heard the broadcast. She 
tacked the U.S. Embassy in Tehran. 
holiday of Grovers Mill. lives directly across the road from to death of it. It makes you feelUpon his release along with the 51 stupid.and embarrassed ... those who
This is the place that Orson the Wilson farm, where the Martian
other American hostages on Jan. 20, thought it was reaL"
Welles doomed to an embarrassing invaders were said to h t ave landed. 
Holland was asked what he missed He said he believes most of the
niche in modern history 43 years She said she doesn't mind talking
most while in solitary confinement. 
panic occurred in nearby cities such

ago when he made it the setting for about her reaction to the program,
In the category ofsports, HollanJ af­
his broadcast adaptation of H.G. although she is a bit amazed by some as Newark, Philadelphia and New Wells' novel, "War ofthe Worlds." of the city folks who have ques-York, because people there had no Thousands around the country tioned her over the years. 
way to know the broadcast was a prayed, wept or ran for the hil t Is r• spoof. when thc all-too-realistic story of an --------------He said he doesn't know of anyone in Grovers Mill who fled in
invasion from Mars was broadcast 
SATURDAY­
over national radio on Halloween fear on the night of the broadcast, mainly "because those who didev~~~;~ho believed the broadcast -FOCUS.
aren't saying.'' 

have been permitted to forget their As a matter of fact, Sayler said, he hysteria, but not those who reside in doesn't know of anyone in West the several dozen houses sprinkled "This one reporter for the televi­Windsor or neighboring Plainsboro about a pond and abandoned mill in sion, I said to her that I was cool as a Township who was amused by the Grovers Mill, not even a town but an cucumber because I knew nothing broadcast and the ensuing panic. 
area within West Windsor was happening. She asked me what "The thing you have to remember cool as a cucumber meant. Said she is that country people don't like to
Township. "Nothing much goes on here. It's a 
never heard it. She asked me to keep be taken in by the city slickers. And quiet place, except some people gct repeating it for the camera," said that's what most of them think 
real mad if you ask them about that Mrs. Sayler. Welles did, made fools out ofthem," radio program. Some of them who She said one reporter asked her to he said. left town still feel real foolish," said show off her shotgun for the camera Sayler said he worries about a real 
Eddie Kemp, a retired dairy worker. but that she refused, saying, "I don't disaster befalling Grovers Mill, and "But every year they come asking show my gun to nobody unless I people "will just sit right where they 
questions, tourists and reporters. have to usc it." are so that nobody can play a joke on I've been on national TV and in all But Mrs. Sayler said the thing that them again." kinds of newspapers and irritates her the most is that people Joe Hall, who runs a service sta­magazines," Kemp said, adding that never want to talk about the time tion near Grovers Mill, said simply, he hadn't actually heard "the broad­she appeared on the television show "Not that Martian business again. I'm 
cast but remembers "a lot of com-"What's My Une?" The panel failed not even going to talk about it." 





ewsBrie_b 
lh I b<' <J/JseJn•r and I be Associated Press 
President Reagan, declared "fit as a fiddle" after a 
two-day physical checkup, headed for a weekend with the fall foliage 
at the Camp David presidential retreat yesterday. The 70-year-old 
president and his wife Nancy checked out of the National Naval 
Medical Center at Bethesda, Md., in early afternoon -about 24 hours after they were admitted for their first routine examinations in two years. The last test was an eye examination and Reagan wore sunglasses against a cloud-shrouded sun as he walked to his l:telicop­ter for the short flight to the Maryland mountains. "Any problems?" a reporter shouted. "Nope," Reagan replied. -AP 
GERAS, a Gerontological Education, Research and Services program at Notre Dame, will begin its third training program for rural and minority elderly in Albuquerque, N.M., tomorrow. Dr.John Santos, GERAS director and psychology professor; Richard Hubbard, assistant director; Mary Alice Santos, program manager; and graduate student David Burdick will supervise the program. -THe Observer 
Republicans should not sit back and relax 
during off-year elections, Maureen Reagan, the president's daughter, told a GOP gathering in Greenwood, lnd Ms. Reagan said that the off-year elections provide the "first chance for the opposition to fight back" since the 1980 Republican sweep. Whether she herself will step into the election fray remains to be seen. Ms. Reagan, 40, is considering running for the seat of U.S. Sen. S.l. Hayakawa, R-Calif Ms. Reagan told a news conference on Thursday before addressing the 6th District Federation of Republican Women that she will an­nounce early next week whether she will be a candidate for the U.S. Senate in 1982. The president's daughter said she was not expecting much help from the White House if she decides to become a can­
didate in the California primary next spring. She said that her father has always considered it important to avoid primary election en­dorsements so that he will be able to pull the Republican party to­gether before the November elections. -AP 
The chairman of Indiana University's chemistry department says facilities in the Chemistry Building are so unsafe that ifhe were advising students on which school to attend, "I would say go to Purdue." Adam Allerhand, professor and chairman of chemistry, told The Indiana Daily Student newspaper that poorly ventilated and designed laboratories, chemicals improperly stored in hallways and a lack of space make the IU Chemistry Building unsafe. "lfl were advising students about whether they should go to IU or Purdue (University at West Lafayette) for chemistry, from a standpoint ofpersonal health, I would say go to Purdue," Allerhand said. He and Donald McMasters, IU's hazardous waste control specialist, said the space and ventilation deficiencies are serious. However, IU-Bioomington Vice President Dr. Kenneth Gros Louis said yesterday, "I don't think anyone is in imminent danger." -AP 
Rudy andJoanne Sheptock of Elizabeth, N.J. 
have adopted their I 5th and 16th children, who will become part of 
the family that includes seven of their own children and four others 
awaiting adoption. "We have problems and troubles just like any 
other family," Mrs. Sheptock said Thursday after an adoption hearing 
at the Union County Courthouse. "The difference with us is that we 
know where the answer is. We look to God." Six years ago, the family 
became born-again Christians and embarked on a personal campaign 
to aid homeless and unwanted children. When money is a problem, 
the family will "put our faith in the Lord," Mrs. Sheptock said. "The 
Sheptocks are mind-boggling and very unusual," said Phyllis Gold, 
assistant director ofSpaulding Adoption Agency ofWestfield. "They 
can handle all these kids because they chose to. It would be unfor­
tunate, however, ifprospective parents believed they have to be like 
the Sheptocks in order to take a special child into their homes." ­
AP 

Archibald Cox, national chairman of Common Cause, says legislation that would limit the scope of the U.S. Supreme Court's review powers is "extremely dangerous." There currently are 20 bills before Congress that would, in some way, restrict the authority ofthe high court, the former Watergate special prosecutor told a Mercer University law school audience Thursday night. Al­though Congress has the right to define the Supreme Court's juris­diction, Cox cautioned that lawmakers should move "very carefully before tampering with such a decision." Increased judicial restraint has been favored by the Reagan administration. But Cox said that 
overall, judicial review has proved to be the most reliable protector of individual rights. He acknowledged that the Supreme Court has issued some bad decisions but said they can be corrected by "time, debate, judicial reconsideration and constitutional amendments." 
-AP 

Partly sunny' breezyand warm today. High in the upper 60s to low 70s. Tonight, increasing clouds with a chance .of rain developing. Mild with lows in the low 50s. Showers likely tomorrow. High in the low 60s. -AP 
Saturday, October 31, 1981 -page 4 
Goblins and ghouls in guises of all kinds Hallows' Eve. These three communicate with the gathered last night to Marx the occasion ofAll spirits as they celebrate the day. (photo by Cheryl 
Desigr~ Editor............................. Mike Monk Design Assistams....................... Tim Neely Typesetter ............................... Bruce Oakley News Editur.............. : .... Mary Agnes Carey Copy Editor.................................. Tim Neely Sports Copy Editor............. Dave Dziedzic Systems Control ................... Bruce Oakley ND Day Editor................. Karen McMahon SMC Day Editor....................... Cece Baliles Ad Desigr~ ................ Fran & Corby & Mark Photographer ......................... Cheryl Ertelt Guest Appearances ..........•...... Vercellottis KeUi ""Buss" Flint Colonel Zero Max Every Mike 0 we can find Keenan Food Sales Beasties and Ghoulies Go Gra.,s! Tunc:s by Da Box 
Ertelt) 
O"UN\PER ftti~S "MNOUNeES••• 
Michael Molinelli's brand New Collection of Campus Comics 

~olarity: 
Don't Make a Right 
now available at ND/SMC bookstores autograph party Nov. 2 3:30-5:00 LaFortune Rathskellar 
Editorial Board and Department Managers

==Ihe=ObserYer== 
Editor-in-Ch!ef..... ...... .. :... .......john McGrath !,~HC News Editor................ .....Cathy Domanico
Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
Executive News .Editor ......................... Kelli Flint Photo Editor........:...... . ............... .john Macor 
The Observer is an independent Editorials represent the opinion of a 
News Editor ..................................Tim Vercellotti 
newspaper published by the students of the majority of the Editorial Board. Commen­
News Editor.............................David Rickabaugh Business Manager.... . .......... Rich Coppola
University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint taries, opinions and letters are the views of 
Sports Editor ..............................Michael Ortman Controller............................. ..............joe Multlur
Mary's College. It docs not necessarily their authors. Column space is available to Editorials Editor.......................Anthony Walton Advertising Manager .......-.............. Chris Owen
reflect the policies of the administration of all members of the community, and the free either institution. The news is reported as expression of varying opinions on campus, Features Editor .........................Gregory Swiercz Production Manager ....................\fichad Monk accurately and as objectively as possible. through letters, is encouraged. !,MC Executive Editor...........Mary Agnes Carey Circulation Manager .............Tom MacLennan 
The Observer Saturday, October 31, 1981 -page 5 

I.Dw-interest transfers 
Regulator urges mortgage limits 
WASHINGTON (AP) -To help are necessary if S&Ls are to success­both state and federally chartered financially strapped savings and fully weather volatile economic savings and loans. Eight states loans, Congress should curtail the conditions. prohibit the enforcement for state­ability of many homeowners to pass The legislation proposed by Pratt chartered S&LS. They are Mississip­on their low-interest mortgages to also would overrule state laws that pi, Colorado, Georgia, Arizona, New 
new buyers, the chief federal bar due-on-sale clauses in home Mexico, Washington, lllinois and regulator of the thrift institutions loans provided by the nearly 2,000 Iowa said yesterday. federally chartered savings and Legislation sponsored by Sen.Jake 
Loan-assumption deals have been loans associations. The clauses mean Garn, R-Utah, banking committee used more and more, in this period a lender can call in a home loan chairman, would overrule state laws of high interest rates, as a means to when the house is sold, preventing for all lenders approved by the 
help sellers attract buyers in a assumable mortgages which allow Department of Housing and Urban depressed housing market. sellers to pass on low-interest loans Development -which would mean 
But Richard T. Pratt, chairman of to new buyers. both state and federally chartered the Federal Home Loan Bank Board, Three states -California, Florda S&LS. States, however, could decide told the Senate Banking Committee and Michigan -prohibit the en­within three years to override the 
that such deals have frustrated len­forcement ofdue-on-sale clauses for federal preemption. ders' expectations of turning over their low-yielding mortgage loans, which he called "the albatross ofthe thrift industry." 
Poll : Sadat's death hurts
He also said the loan deals have "substantially reduced the supply of mortgage credit and (have) in­

l\1ideast peace chances
creased the cost of mortgage credit to the first-time homebuyer and NEWYORK(AP)-A majority of States government should not for­those least able to afford interest Americans think the death of Egyp­mally recognize and have direct rates existin~ in the economy at this tian President Anwar Sadat hurts the diplomatic relations with the time." chances ofpeace in the Middle East, Palestine Liberation Organization, 
Savings and loans, whose tradi­according to the latest Associated while 25 percent said there should tional function has been to use Press-NBC News poll. be formal relations between the PLO This grease monk~.-'Y doubles as a bartender at Senior Bar -his money from savers to make long­The poll of 1,598 adults, taken by and the U.S. government. Fifteen 
specialty: screwdrivers, ofcourse. (photo by Cheryl Ertelt) term housing mortgages, have been telephone Monday and Tuesday In a percent were not sure. hit particularly hard by inflation and scientific random sampling, also said Sixty-seven percent said they did••••••••• high interest rates. a majority ofAmericans do not think not know enough about the issue to
• 
~~~..... . They have large portfolios of the United States government have an opinion on the proposed mortgages written years ago at should formally recognize and have creation of a separate Palestinian relatively low interest rates. But to direct diplomatic relations with the Arab state on Israel's West Bank,
'•• • attract money in a period ofhigh in­Palestinian liberation Organization. while I 5 percent said they approved
• 
terest rates, they have to pay more Sixty-eight percent said the assas­and 18 percent disapproved. for short-term deposits than they are sination ofSad at on Oct. 6 hurts the The poll reported that Americans taking in from long-term home chances for peace in the Middle East, were sharply divided over the ef­loans. while 22 percent said his death fects of the sale of AWACS radar 
• 
Pratt wants Congress to approve makes no difference in peace planes by the United States to Saudi legislation that would give savings prospects. Two percent said Sadat's Arabia; 4 7 percent said the A WACs and loans broad new powers to death helps the chances of peace sale will not mean the United States operate more like commercial and 8 percent were not sure. 
See PEACE, page 6

: I DON'TGET NO •
•





:traftf!
•
•
•
•
• RODNEY • .-DANGERFIELD • 
FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 6 8:00 • NOTRE DAME A.C.C. • 
• TICKETS ON SALE AT THE A.C.C. • : BOX OFFICE. ALSO AVAILABLE : :AT: ROBERTSON'S IN'S. BEND, AND: : THE CONCORD MALL, ST. JOSEPH'S : • BANK (MAIN BRANCH), 1st SOURCE • :BANK (MAIN), ELKHART TRUTH, : :SUSPENDED CHORD (ELKHART). :
,....••........................ 
•
•
• 
':•
• 

biD:Iks. He CO'!_tend~_!iu_c~ change~ _ _sixty perce"!__said the UniteQ__ 
NOW OPEN ... 
Travel Services Now on the Campus of St. Mary's College 
• 
Computerized Airline Reservations 

• 
Amtrak Tickets 

• 
Bus/Limo Tickets to Chicago 

• 
Tours and Cruises 

• 
Group Travel Services 


st. Mary's (219) 284-5606 ~ t~:~r Le Mans Hall--Lower Level,ormerty ~~n-avet 
Notre Dame Travel Office Located in Badin Hall (219) 236-2374 

UNITED WAY STUDENT DRIVE . 
begins soon 

100 percent 90 percent llll percent 
·o percent 60 percent SO percent 
.. 30 percent . 20 percent . 10 percent 
0 oercent 

.. ..,
u c '0 ..
.. c fa, c t' .. ... ... c ..,, ::£ Qz ~ a ~ ~ 0 tl E ... 't: .. ;,
c ~ = 0 .c ::£ ~ .)l Ill ~ ~ 
e t ~ ~ 
< i <" 'i = :a c ~ a " ?.1 Q ...'5 ... -~ .~ ~ "'' ~-u ~ :c ~ ~ ~ ~ u ::£ f0 II. ; ='t: .. ... i .)l .l'i i:s N 
II. u 

... u
:s -a ,e. ::£ i
:: 0 ' " 
= 
J: :c "" 
Saturday, October 31, 1981 -page 6
·fhe Observer


These two youngsters enjoy a relaxing moment at the empty fountain near LaFortune Student Center. (p'!!}to by Cheryl Ertelt) 

*CONVENIENT, SAf:E, DOWNTOWN LOCATION'' 5 MINUTES TO NOTRE DAME 
* 1&2 BEDROOM UNITS FROM S31,500 10% DOWN, BALANCE AT ll-¥4% 
*TOTAL MONTHLY PAYMENT COST FROM S4l7-INCLUDES HEAT AND AIR CONDITIONING 
RON OLSON 272-8870 SMITH-ZEISZ 272-5444 
In Poland 
Government threatens strikers 
WARSAW, Poland (AP) Premier Wojciech )aruzelski threatened yesterday to use "extraordinary means of action" against Solidarity if the union failed to heed a parliamentary call for an immediate end to the strikes that are keeping Poland in turmoil. 
He also named a non-Communist and a Catholic to his government and reshuffled five Cabinet posts in an apparent effort to gain broader suppon. Meanwhile, the military council of the Soviet-led Warsaw Pact ended a two-day meeting in Budapest, Hungary. No com­munique was issued, but Poland was believed to have been on the agenda. 
"In connection with the dan­gerous situation in the countf¥, I conveyed to the Sejm (Parliament) a government draft proposal for a law on extraordinary means ofaction to protect citizens and state," said )aruzelski, who is also Poland's Com­munist Pany chief and defense min­
ister. 
"If this resolution of the Sejm is 
not respected, I shall propose in an 
urgent manner the start of legal 
procedures for the government 
The Observer (USPS 598 920) is published Monday through Friday and on home football Saturdays, except during exam and vacation periods. The ' Observer is published by the students of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Col­lege. Subscriptions may be purchased for $25 per year ($1 5 per semester) by writing The Observer, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 
The Observer is a member of The Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserv.ed. 
Second class postage paid at Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 
proposal ofa law. 

"The interests of the socialist state, the peaceful and secure exist­ence ofour nation, must and will be protected," Jaruzelski said in a speech to Parliament that received thunderous applause. 
jaruzelski did not explain what he meant by "extraordinary means of action," but a law banning strikes would effectively strip Solidarity of the right to strike, which was part of the August 198 t 0 agreements that gave binh to the first union free of Communist Party control in the Soviet bloc. 
Parliament is expected to discuss the anti-strike resolution and jaruzelski's proposed law for two days. 
Solidarity leaders also were trying to halt the protest wave that has idled an estimated 350,000 workers in scattered cities. It said it would discuss "disciplinary measures in relation to people guilty of weaken­ing union unity and discipline." It was the first threat of internal dis­cipline voiced by the union since it was formed. 
"We must program the use of the strike weapon in a thoughtful apd planned way," said the union appeal from its Baltic headquarters in Gdansk. "We must settle the most important problems of the nation such as economic reform, control over the economy and access to the media." 
On other matters, )aruzelski said prices for gasoline and alcochol must rise. And in an apparent effon to broaden his government's sup­port, )aruzelski named a non­
. Communist Democratic Party leader a deputy premier and a mem­ber of the pro-government Pax Roman Catholic group to a mini­sterial post. 
Edward Kowalczyk replaced Deputy Premier Stanislaw Mach, who had been criticized for his han­dling of food matters, and Zenon . Komender replaced Zygmunt Lakomiec as minister of internal trade, which is also responsible for food distribution. 
Komender's appointment puts two Catholics in the government. Last November,jerzy Ozdowski was named a deputy premier, the first Catholic to hold such a top post since the late 1940s. 
' ' 
continuedfrom page 5 
must increase its military aid to Is­rael, while 43 percent said it will mean more U.S. aid to Israel and 10 percent were not sure. 
In addition, 39 percent said the AWACS sale will increase the chances of war in the Middle East, 
• • . Peace 
while 25 percent said it will decrease the chances ofwar, 32 per­cent said it would make no dif­ference and 4 percent were unsure. 
As with all sample surveys, the results of AP-NBC News polls can vary from the opinion of all Americans because of chance varia­tions in the sample. 
~---------------------------,
MELODY ALARM WATCH THAT PLAYS AFULL ORDER FORM MINUTE OF THE IRISH FIGHT SONG. 
NAME ................................................................................... . ADDRESS ............................................................................ . 
Set the alarm to play the "Victory March" to CITY.......................... STATE.......... ZIP ................... . 
remind you of the start of the game or just press to play at any time. Yellow Gold.............. VISA ............
Order it now to wear to your next alumni party.. White Gold ...............MASTERCHARGE...........
A perfect gift for that staunch ND fan you know. L(]) ~I watch available in men's style white or yellow gold. Lighted display. 24 hr. alarm 
Manufacturer's 1 yr. warranty. Satisfaction guaranteed -if this product isn't everything you expect, simply return it in new condition within 30 days for complete refund. 
Order today. Indiana residents add 4'/o sales tax. Send check or money order. Dealer in­quiries invited. Allow 8-10 weeks fordelivery. 
VISA/ MASTERCHARGE numbers and expirations dates. 





N.D."VI 

H"WATCH 



What tho' the odds be great or small, Old No -tre Dame will win ov -er 



all, 

The Observer Saturday, October 31, 1981 -page 7 
liftoff Wtrlnesday 
NASAbegins shuttle countdown 
CAPE CANAVERAL, Fla. (AP) ­While astronauts rehearsed desert landings a continent away, National Aeronautics and Space Administra­tion crews prepped for a Halloween "call to stations," the start of the countdown for Launch II of the space shuttle Columbia. Even rain and a dent in a fuel line failed to snag the script. 
When Columbia flies again, it will become the world's first ship to go into space more than once. 
Test conductor Gilbert H. Whit­taker was to command the start of Columbia's four-day countdown at I 
a.m. EST today, beginning a 73-hour clockwork sequence leading to next Wednesday's dawn launch. 
In California, astronautsjoe Engle, 49, and Richard Truly, 43, were practicing the landing they will make on Rogers Dry Lake on the Mojave Desert at the end oftheir five days in orbit. They flew in a Gulfstream II jet plane whose con­trols and handling imitated those of the shuttle. 
Columbia, mated with the two rockets and the external tank that will fuel it into space, was buffeted by periodic downpours during the night. The rain did no damage but stalled work on the pad. 
Mark Hess, spokesman for NASA, said tht• work was about 14 hours 
Swedish wait for skipper 
ofSoviet sub 
STOCKHOLM. Sweden (AP) ­
Swedish marines and tommandos 
armed with sub-machine guns 
tightened the ring around a 
grounded Soviet submarine Friday 
and began a waiting game with its 
skipper, who refused to leave the 
ship to face interrogation. 
As night fell, strong searchlights 
were IUrned on and the atmosphere 
became tense as Swedish troops and 
Soviet navy men silently watched 
each other over gunsights at close 
range. One coast guard officer who 
came close to the sub said, "It looks 
so unreal, it's like a war movie." 
A Swedish officer and an in­
tepreter visited the sub three times 
during the day but the Soviet com­
mander, Pyotr Gushin, refused re­
quests to go aboard a Swedish ship 
fur que t stioning. The sub, with an es­
timated 56 Soviets aboard, went 
aground Tuesday in a restricted area 
ncar the Karlskrona Naval Base on 
the Baltic, 300 miles south ofStock­
holm. 
Gushin and his crew were sur­
rounded and blocked off by Swedish 
warships, aircraft and elite troops, 
and one Swedish commander said, 
"Ifthey won't cooperate they can sit 
there, we have time to walt." 
The t.·rew of the sub, described by Swedish experts who inspected it from the outside as specially · modified for intelligence missions, was believed to have fuel, food and probably water for at least two 
weeks. 
The sub also was in radio contact 
with its home base and a Soviet 
destroyer hovering at the territorial 
limit with a few other Warsaw pact 
ships, officials said. They added that 
the sub was able to run its diesel 
engines to charge the ship's bat­
teries. 
Two battalions of elite Swedish 
marine and paratroop commandos 
were stationed on nearby islands to 
reinforce the iron ring around the 
sub. The area, normally totally 
restriced for foreigners, was also 
cordoned off for all Swedish civilians 
except some rt:porters. 
Swedish submarine officers said after an inspection from the outside by navy divers that the sub was 220 feet long, weighed I,000 tons and was of thc 1950s Whiskey class. 
behind, but would not affcct cither countdown or launching. Many of tht· "closeout" activities were carried out simultaneously with the countdown before the first flight of Columbia last. April 12. 
Inspectors going through a final check of the aft end of the orbiter, discovered a depression about the size of a quarter and three­sixteenths of an inch deep in a two­inch diameter line that carries flammable hydrogen. The "ding" was in the plumbing ofengine No. I in the three-engine cluster. 
Officials could only speculate what caused it; perhaps a bump from a work platform or a dropped tool did. It might even have been there throughout the April flight or put there while the ship was being refur­bished. 
"We have a flyable piece of pipe," Hess said after extensive testing was conducted to make sure there were no leaks. The pipe was X-rayed, sub­jected to vacuum and flooded with dye, and a mold was made to determine the depth of the indenta­tion. 
The countdown to Wednesday's 
7:30 a.m. scheduled liftoff has six scheduled "holds," totaling 29 and a half hours. One lasts 12 hours and the other two are eight hours each, to give rest to the launch pad workers and for flexibility in case of unforeseen problems. 
At the call to stations, support per­sonnel made certain all switches and valves were in proper positions. Then-at the command oftest con­ductor Gilbert H. Whittaker ­electricity, conditioned air, gases and propellants began flowing into the shuttle. 
futage ordeal continues at Pennsylvania prison 
GRATERFORD, Pa. (AP) -Flak­jacketed troopers stood vigil Friday at Pennsylvania's largest prison, where convicted murderer Joseph Bowen and three fellow inmates held 38 people hostage for a second day. 
The hostages were reported in good health. Negotiations with the inmates were at a stalemate, and there was no indication when an end would come to the siege that began after the four botched an escape at­tempt Wednesday night, a prison spokesman said. 
"We've been in contact with. the hostages, and they are in good health," Martin Dragovich, an assis­tant to prison Superintendent Julius Cuyler, told reporters. 
He said it was "watchful waiting" in the kitchen area at the state cor· rectional institution where the hostages -three guards, three kitchen workers and 32 inmates ­have been hdd and where a state trooper suffered a minor gunshot wound Thursday night. 
Prison officials identified the ringleader as Bowen, characterized by a jud~e who presided at one ofhis murder trials as a man "who would 
kill for sheer joy." Bowen is serving 
time for the murders ofa policeman 
and a warden and assistant warden at 
another prison. 
The 34-year-old convict has told prison officials he is considering sur­render, but the hours ticked by yes­terday without any action. 
Dragovich said the captors have 
been assured that if they surrender 
peacefully they will be allowed safe 
passage to their cells. But he said the 
"Bureau of Prisons isn't guarantee­
ing any amnesty." 
Robert Wolfe, another prison ad­
ministrative assistant, said Bowen 
apparently had talked with a brother 
and a sister, but that they had not 
convinced him to give up. 
"The feedback I got is that Bowen 
told his brother and sister, 'We un­
derstand your concern, but please 
leave us alone,"' Wolfe said. 
The captors were believed to be armed with at least one handgun, and also had access to kitchen uten­sils, including knives. 
The prison houses 2,045 inmates. Over one quarter of them are serv· ing sentences for murder. 


ctl't? full 
(4rlcJ rn~l:., n:c.,1,._., tt·•···) 
The_Ohs.erY-er_ 
Is looking for design assistants 

@*Late.night wor~ 
-~~~~'..... *Patd positions (If you qualify) 
* 1 Night weekly \.\ Call Mike 8661 
The OBSERVER . FEATURES DEPARTMENT is looking for FEATURE WRITERS!! 
contact Greg at 1715 NOW!! 


The Navy defense will need to pay more attention to Blair Ktel today than thisyoung Irish fan was paying him at last nighfspep rally in Stepan Center. (photo by Cheryl Erte/1) 
SUBSCRIBE NOW! --Ibe Obset:Ver ­
It Only Makes Sense that a newspaper run by students for the students would have the best inside coverage of Notre Dame sports and news. 
After All, The Fighting Irish Players 

are students just like us. Our reporters eat, study, and live with team members--and we know more than any city newspaper about the inner workings of the Irish athletic machine. 
1\l.tk,· .. hn J.., pa\ Jhh: lo. Tht" Obsc.·rvrr Ir.---------------,
,IJld UJ.IIil4 I p () no, ()I 'Oirt' lbll~t·. I'\" th~~() I 
I D Endo~eu b S22 for n:m;&inc.kr of 1 9H l·Hl I
I I
\l':IL 
I DLndoM.·d i~ ~ 12 t(,r n·n101indt.·r of ~c.·mc.·~tt.:r I
I , . I
I •amc . 1 
1'"""'" 1
.. 

I 
( 11\ ~l.llt" 1111 I 

52554 US 31 North across from NORTH VILLAGE MALL 

Old English Atmosphere 
Excellent Steak, Prime Rib 
and Sea Food 
OPEN Mon-Thursday 11:30-10:00 p.m. Friday 11:30-12:00 p.m. Saturday 5 p.m.-12 p.m. Sunday "4-9 p.m. 
Longest Happy Hour in Town 
11:30-7:00 p.m. Monday-Friday Live Entertainment 5 Nights a Week in the Lounge 
I 
~ 
1 
•I 

The Observer Saturday, October 31, 1981 -page 8 
. :· . 
. t ::

Elkh~tt Holiday Inn 

2725 CASsopolis St. 
. :;


Elkhart, Ind. (219) 264-7502 
ComE SEE US TONIGHT 
LIVE ENTERTAINmENT 

6 NIGHTS A WEEK 
JUST 30 minutes away 

. :~ 

Full service hotel : * heated indoat pool * game arcade 
* 
whirlpool * plngpong 

* 
sauna * pool tables 

* 
miniature golf * patio dining 

* 
putting green 






.,
stay with us next week 
our rooms are only J29 I day J33 double occupancy 


Saturday, October 31, 1981 -page 9



Sports Brie!§ 


APTopT-nty 

The Top Twenty college football teams In The As­soclatad Preas poll, wrth first-place votes In paren­theses. this season's records and total pomts. Points based on 20-1 9-t fl-t7 etc. Notre Dame oponents are 1/aJ/c/zed. 
1. Penn Sfete(45) 6·0-0 1,259 2. Pittsburgh (t9) 6-0-0 t,235 3. Clemson 7-0-0 t,t05 4. Sout11em Cel 6-1-o t,079 5. Georgta 6-1-0 990 
. -· 

6. Texas 5·1·0 893 7. Mississippi State 6·1-0 796 8. Alabama 6-1-1 730 9. North Carolina 6-1-0 630 t 0. Arizona State 6-1-0 557 tt. Iowa State 5-1-1 548 t2. Nebraaka 5-2-o 520 
13. Southern Methodist 6-1-0 sog 14. Washington State 11-0-1 501 15. Mlci!IQan 5-2-o 435 16. Iowa 5-2-o 327 17. Flolldtl Slate 5-2-o 2n t6. Washington &-1-o 173 t9. Oklahoma 3-2-1 t28 20. Arkansas 5-2-0 104 
r-----Rmsn~K-----, 
t ST. RD. 23 at BITTERSWEET ! t 277-3143 ' 

SUBSCRIBE NOW! 
tWelcomes all N.D.-SMC students, farulty, graduates, t tfriends. t 
SPECIALIZING IN: Hickory Smoked Ribs and Rib t.. Tips, Broasted Chicken, Broasted Potatoes, t It Sandwiches. and Pizza. t
tHOURS: Tues. thru Thurs. lla.m.-9 p.m. t Fri. lla.m.-lOp.m. Sat. 4 p.m.-10 p.m. t 
L----2~U~~------

Oalat BueW 
ReSTAURAKT 
1212 S. 9taweed, Seal '8ac4 9ufiCIIID 289-1616 

amity dining at reasonable price a •Make checks payable to: The Observer
~ 

----------------,
land mail to: P.O. Box Q I 
Steak dinners & Seafood Live Music houres d'ouvres served -9-12 p.m.----Fri. -Sat. 
I 
Happy Holll: I 4-0 p.m.--Mon.-Frie 
• I 
I
Ironwood on the 
I 


-Ihe-Obse--.~~o·r­
-----. -----&.-=Y~~ -­
It Only Makes Sense that a newspaper run by students for the students would have the best inside coverage of Notre Dame sports and news. 
After All, The Fighting Irish Players are students just like us. Our reporters eat, study, and live with team members--and .we know more than any city newspaper about the inner workings of the Irish athletic machine. 
Notre Dame, IN 46';'561
D Enclosed is $22 for remainder of 1981-82 1. · year. IDEnclosed is $12 for remainder ofsemester. I -=-·~ I 
Name.................................................................................. . Address.......... ·····················································'·············I City ...................................... State.......... . ....... ZiP ........ . 
-· 
By l'b!' 1JIJS<'rt•t•r and lbt• .·lssodaled Press 
The Observer-Landon Turner Fund will 
benefit from a dinner and talk by Indiana basketball coach Bobby Knight. Turner, the Hoosier's star forward, was left paralyzed by an auto accident in July. Tickets for the dinner, which is to be held at the Century Center, are $50. The talk is scheduled for the Morris Civic Auditorium on the same night, Monday, November 9. Admis­sion is 10 dollars for adults and five dollars for students. Tickets are available at The Obseroer offices on the third floor of LaFortune. Donations for the fund are always welcome. Make checks payable to The Obscrver-Landon Turner Fund, P.O.Box Q, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 -The Obseroer 
The final home g3.llle for the Notre Dame soccer team will take place on tomorrow afternoon, as the Irish play host to Wright State. Coach Rich Hunter's squad, now 14-3-3 on the year, still holds a slim chance of gaining an NCAA playoff berth. The Raiders, a Division II school which lost to the Irish, 2-1, last season, enter the contest with a fine 10-5-0 slate. The game begins at 2 p.m. on Cartier Field. -The Obseroer 

Referees are needed for interhall basketball. In­terested men and women should contact the NVA office (C-2 ACC) at 61 00 -The Obseroer 
Three lawyers from New York City will be panelists for a Sports and Entertainment Law Forum to be held at Notre Dame's Center for Continuing Education next Friday (Nov. 6) The morning session will run from 10 a.m. to 12 noon, and the afternoon session will begin at 2 p.m. and conclude at 4 p.m. The three panelists will be Seymour Peyser, Richard Zahnd and Sidney Bluming, all ofwhom are specialists in this expanding field of law. Peyser has served as Vice­President of and General Counsel to United Artists Corporation. Zahnd is General Counsel to Madison Square Garden Corporation, the parent company that owns and operates the New York Knicks and Rangers. Bluming once represented the New York Yankees. -
Tbe Obseroer 

The Off-C3.lllpus hockey team is organizing. In­terested OC men should sign up at the NVA office ( C-2 ACC) or call 6100. -Tbe Obseroer 
The Observer will accept classifieds Mon-1 day through Friday, 10 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. ' However, classifieds to appear in the next issue must be received by 3 p.m. the business day prior to insertion. All classifieds;must be prepaid, 
either in person or through the mail. 


Classifieds 
whoever found a calculator and EPHYS Mom & Dad want to see Georgta Tech UNITED WAY 

WANTED
book (streetman) in room 2t2 cushing 
game. Need 2 GAs. Call Sue 6903 
UNITED WAY 

NOTICES Helpllll I r...:t ttvw C3) G.A.'• tor lhe
PLEASE call mike at 8598. substantial UNITED WAY Gaorgla Tech ....,... K you c., help,
reward IIIII Need tix for Penn State. Call Stan, 3006 or 
TYPING WANTED. Fast. Accurate. Close GIVE YOUR FAIR SHARE 
canT-..1714.
3006. USED BOOK SHOP HOURS WED . 

LOST before break: Brown Tweed Cap: and Reasonable. 272-41 05 or 272· 4272. N0\1.1-8. SAT. SUN. 9·7. CASPERSON, t303 Patch on the tnstde wtth Donegal Tweed s-Progrwna lor SMC & NO stu­
I' 
I DESPERATELY NEED t NAVY TICK­
BUCHANAN AD , NILES. on H. Please call Kevin at3737. SHOW SOMEONE YOU CARE WITH A dents. London (May 16 -June t7) w~h
ETII PLEASE CALL CARRIE AT 803tlll MONTH OF FLOWERS. A BOUQUET travel in Ireland. Scofland, ar>d France. 
lost: Accounting book; NO NAME OF FRESH FLOWERS DELIVERED
OVERSEAS JOBS · Summer/year TICKETS A-(June t5-July t4) willl traver in
I NEED 2 GA's for Geogia Tech for visrting ... ........ .. ......................... perents. Call the Madman, John E. at 
INSIDElin a class on the second noor ol EVERY WEEK FOR 4 WEEKS. \lASE IN· 
round. Europe. S.Amer . Australia. Asta France. Germany. and Switzerlar>d. 
the bustness building: REWARD: ONE CLUDED IN FIRST DELIVERY. WED·
All ttelds. $500-$t200 monthly Sighlsee­Courses in BuiiiOetiS, History, tng Free tnfo. Wrrte LJC. Box 52-IN·4, Phtlosophy, Sociology. and Theate<.
Penn St. ttcket wanted please call Donna 8437 cause I gots lois of MONEY. Thts
CASE,BUO.SCOTT 2153 NESDAYS FLOWERS 289-12tt.
at6T7t advertisement courtesy ofthe 7t4 Club. 
....................... REWARDIII HAS ANYONE SEEN A SINGING CHARLIE TELEGRAMS needs Moreau, St. Mary·s. For "'tormahon cal 
Corona Del Mar, CA 92625. Meeting Wed. Nov 4, 7 PM in Rm 232 
..

Will trade any student ltx, or pay$ for one DESPERATELY NEED lickels to PSU
LITTLE BROWN MOUSE NAMED expenenced singers, Call between 9-3 at HEMAN VERMIN IN THE VICINITY OF 234-0959 
TYPING SERVICE, call684·4t25 Prof. A.R. Black 41·4948 or 2n-3726 as
or two GEORGIA TECH GA's. Call Sue game. Will buy outnght and/or trade for a 
at home. CARROLL? MASTURBATES WILDLY 
3731 ride to PSU. Call Fran at 4365 aner 6PM. 
NITEI TONIGHT! HALLOWEEN DANCE AT THE LOGAN CENTERI 7:30-tO BE FIOHT POUUTION-AIDE A IIII008E.
TO THE BEAT OF JUMPIN' JACK The new Molarity book. "Don't Make a
BIG BUCKSIIII need two GA's for NAVY 

FLASH. IF SEEN PLEASE CALL 4709 Right"-· com•ng soonlfl THEREI and/or GA TECH. PLEASE HELPIIIIMMEDIATELY. 
Happy Btrthday Bruce Kowatsktfff CALL FRANK 8820. 
SENIORS: Applications for SENIOR WEEK CHAIRMAN and SENOR FEL· 
PERSONALS 
Welcome 1o NO mom ar>d dadl How canNEED several GA orr student tix for Navy LOW CHAIRMAN are now avatlable in the the lnsh lose when their top fans are in theCall Mary 41-4972 student acttvttles office. All are en­stands? Hope you entoy the game YOIM'
LOST/FOUND\ 1~....-_FO_R_R_EN_T~ 
Two wrongs 
couraged to apply. 
slarvtng son (We are eattng out. aren'l

NEED 3 GA's for GEORGIA TECH ...very DON'T MAKE A RIGHT we?). Tim 
desperatell call Larry t809

To the person who acc•denlally m•stook JUNIPER PRESS announces the sale of my wallet for his 1n the men's locke room of ROOMMATE WANTED 1o share a COM· the new MOLARITY book. DON'T MAKE RIDERS NEEDED -To Des Moines ot
Need two Navy GA tickets. Call Paul al 

the Rockne Memonal. I would be eternally PLETEL Y furnished apl. close to NO ON­A RIGHT, now available in the Bookstore. along 1-80 West. Leavmg Thunday, Nov.
277·0692. Hulley

grale· fultf you would return 11 I know thai LY $t05/ month plus elec. ·call Dave at Also, meet author and campus per­5, at t :00 p.m. and relurrnng on Sunday.
I gol a letter. It's the Bestl Details com­
the extra money ts very use· lui but please 283·1169 aner tt :00 p.m. sonality Michael Molinelli al a special Call John at 65t0.
DESPERATELY NEED 3 NAVY TIX •ng.

understand that I wtll nol have another Autograph Party this Monday. lrom 3:30 
STUDENT OR GA! CALL DAVE AT tt28 M 
dollar 1111 Chnslmas break If you can't hnd FEMALE ROOMMATE WANTED to to 5 p.m. tn !he Nazz. !he basement of Hello Sw181'cz Family.
ANYTIME 

It In your heart to relurn I he money, I ah•re am•ll, turnlahed home with LaFortune. If you m1ssed the last book. or 
The System would appreciate it tf you would return my aame. Ten mlnutea !rom NO. $130 per the last autograph party. that's wrong. 
Hi. Patty 

I need 1 GA ticket to G.Tech. Please call Bruce
month Include• •II utllltlea. Call 28&­Jim al8046

I 0 so at leasl I'll be able to ear ··--· Thank And two wrongs DON'T MAKE A RIGHT. 
9t17 alter 12:30 p.m. 
you xtt60 


J 
~------~­
-------------------------. 
The Observer-Sports Saturday, October 31, 1981 -page 10 
Montana key to 49er success 
By MICHAEL MONK NFL) and the result is one ofthe best shows no sign ofletting up. 
Sports Writer teams in the league. But just like "I haven't done much thinking 
everyone else in the Bay Area, Walsh about a failure period," he says. "I'm 
He earned the title "Comeback recognizes the man who deserves not set up for that. I've always had joe" during his illustrious playing much ofthe credit. the confidence that once given the career at Notre Dame,, and rightfully "Montana has been playing out­fob, I could perform. And my con­so. Time and again, quarterback joe standing football," he said. "He fidence has been getting better each Montana wrested victory away from makes good decisions under week because experience gives you would-be conquerors as he en­pressure. And he's a fine athlete. I confidence." gineered some of the most knew with four games left last The success Montana has attained memorable come-from-behind wins season that he would be our man for this season is due in large part to the in the history ofcollege football. the future." outstanding receivers for the 49ers. 
But since joining the San Fran­It was last season when Montana Led by veterans Freddie Solomon cisco 49'ers in 1979, Montana's finally earned the opportunity to and Dwight Clark, the receiving complimentary moniker has gone sho\\ what he can do with the corps is big, fast, and dependable. by the wayside somewhat. Not be­pigskin. Midway through the year, Beause of his talented receivers, cause he has lost the magical come­he took over for the inconsistent Montana is afforded the luxury of back touch that created so many Steve Deberg. Montana went on to several different targets. It gives grey lasting memories for Notre Dame establish a 49er completion record hairs to defenses that cannot double fans, but because now when he of64.5 percent, which was also best up on a prime receiver, while allow­glances up at the scoreboard in the in the NFL. After suffering through ing only single coverage on a lesser fourth quarter, his 49'ers are usually five quarterbacks since Brodie's receiver. This fact was portrayed in up on top. In fact, the once lowly retirement in 1973, San Francisco the Dallas game, in which the 49ers 49ers have won six of their eight has finally found itself an outstand­embarrassed America's team, 45-7. contests this season, good enough ing signal caller. On one play, the Cowboy's secon­for first place in the Western Divi­dary doubled-up on Solomon, sion of the NFC. The Philadelphia leaving Clark to single coverage. Eagles are the only team in the NFL '... I haven't done much Montana took advantage ofthe situa­with a better record. tion, throwing a 78-yard touchdown 
Much of the success of the 49er thbzking about a failure pass to the deceptively fast Clark. team can be attributed directly to Another major factor in Montana's
period-I'm not set ~up
the exemplary play of Montana. success is the big 49er front line, Through the first half of the season, which has allowed only I3 sacks in he has completed 65 perent of his /or that ... ' eight games. When a quarterback of passes for almost 2,000 yards. Over Montana's ability is given the time to the course of the last four games, It has been a Cinderella story for throw, he can't help but be success­Montana has hurled 99 conseutive Montana; from third string quarter­ful. passes without an interception, back at Notre DAme to one of the The media blitz which has breaking the old 49~r record set by best quarterbaks in the NFL But the resulted from Montana's auspicious 
the great John Brodie. By virtue of story is still being written, and Mon­efforts has not changed him. Despite these impressive statistics, he has tano~ realizes that there are still many being the best passer in the NFC, he earned a rating of 96.I, tops in the obstacles to overcome. does not dwell upon individual NFC and second only to Craig Mor­"Playing quarterback on a pro achievements. He is fully aware that ton of Denver in the entire NFL team is a high-pressure job," he ex­there aremore important things. 
Since 49er Head Coach Bill Walsh plained. "And playing quarterback "My goal right now is simply to 
took over in 1979, he has built the on a team like the 49ers is even help turn around this program. If I offense around the pass. His hard tougher. We're a team that is just for­can help do that and make the work and perserverance has finally ming, that hasn't learned yet what playoffs, all the personal goals will paid off, with San Francisco now it's like to win." come with it." 
averaging close tO four touchdowns It's been five years since the 49ers If Montana continues to play the each g;.me. Combine this with a vast­last sported a winning record. But same high caliber football, he may ly improved defense (last season the with Montana at the helm, that is not only bring the 49ers to the 
49er secondary allowed the most sure to change this season. And the playoffs; he just might lead them passing yards in the history of the young, determined quarterback right into the Super Bowl. 


WNCH 1
Mon.· Sat. 11:00 ·4:30 
Sun. 12:00 . fo :00 
Douglas
NO 
PHONE 217-6368 ACROSS FROM UNIVERSITY PARK MALL ON GRAPE ROAD 

Irish quarterbackjoeMontana has led the San Francisco 49ers to a 6-2 record thisyear and ts one ofthe league's toppassers. See Michael Monk's article at left. 
Los Angeles celebrates World Series victory 
LOS ANGELES (AP)-With con­you for what you have done this fetti falling under a sunny sky, the year." world champion Los Angeles Escorted by several marching Dodgers paraded through bands, World Series most valuable downtown yesterday to the cheers players Steve Yeager, Pedro Guer­of up to 300,000 baseball fans and rero and Ron Cey waved from the received the ceremonial key to the floats. Among their teammates city. riding the floats were teammates 
Three floats carried the heroes up Steve Garvey, Dusty Baker, Rick Broadway to City Hall, where they Monday, Bill Russell, Bob Welch, were introduced one by one to the Jerry Reuss, Dave Stewart, Terry crowd. Forster, Dave Goltz, Reggie Smith, 
"I think we captured something Bobby Castillo, Derrel Thomas and the city ofLos Angeles waited a long some oftheir wives and coaches. time to have and so richly Dodger owner Peter O'Malley and deserved," said pitcher Burt Lasorda flanked Mayor Tom Bradley Hooton, who won the final game of in a vintage blue convertible preced­the World Series 9-2 Wednesday ing the floats. night in New York. The Dodgers "Ifwe knew it would be this much defeated the New York Yankees four fun we'd have done it a lot sooner," games to two. said Reuss, another of the Dodgers' 
"It's good to bring it home to pitching aces. you," Hooton said as the crowd roared its approval. Cey, the first player introduced, 
One star they didn't see was said, "I've been waiting nine years to rookie pitching sensation Fernando see this happen. Nobody can say we Valenzuela, although they inter­did it the easy way -I'm sure we rupted several officials' speeches had all of you on your seats the last with chants of"We Want Fernando, three weeks. I think our season 
We Want Fernando!" closes this afternoon." 
"Unfortunately, Fernando was not Bradley said the Dodgers' triumph feeling too well today and he was provided the city a unifying occa­unable to attend," Dodger Manager sion. Tom Lasorda said. "He wanted to be Everyday pursuits fell by the here very, very much. I spoke to him wayside for of the celebrators, before the parade began and he ex­whom one police sergeant on the tended his sincere thanks to all of street estimated at "about 300,000." 
,,......................··-··~··· ... 1 _.The Observer.-··~ i
i i
needs 
: Freshmen : : and i Sophomores : 
(no experience necessary) 
Call Bruce 1715 

Paid Position/One Night Weekly/4·6 Hrs. •: 
.................................. 
GO IR~ISH DINNER. N 
interested in Mon. ·Thurs. 5:00 -10:00 Fri..:Sat. 4:3o =12:oo 


Computer Typesetting 


--------------~-~-------­
Saturday, October 31, 1981 -page 11
The Observer-Sports 
Big Ten preview



Basketballtickets 

Hawks, Bucks face tough passers 
ByJOE MOOSHIL passing efficiency, not to mention cause ofnew rivalries and added em­


avdilable Monday 

Associated Press his main target, Steve Bryant, who is phasis on rankings and bowl bids. 
Notre Dame Students 
Basketball ticket sales and dis­tribution li>r Notre Dame students will begin on Monday (Nov. 2). The student ba~ketball1>eason ticket will he split into two eight-game packagl·s ofequal quality as follows: 
Package A Sat., Nov. 28 -St. Joseph's Mon., Dec. 7 -Murray State Sat., Jan. I6-Davidson Sat.,Jan. 23-Maryland Wcd.,Jan. 27-Maine Tues. Feb. 2 -San Francisco Sal., Feb. 27 -DePaul Tues., Mar. 2-Northnn Iowa 
PackageD Fri., Nov. 20 -Yugoslavia Team Sat., Dec. 5 -lJCI.A Sat., Dec. 12-Nonhern Illinois Tucs.,Jan. 19-Villanova Mon.,Jan. 25 -Idaho Sat.,Jan. 30-Marquette Sat., Feb. 13-N.C. State Tues., Feb. 23 -Fordham 
Seniors and juniors only will have the opportunity to purchase Package A, Package B or both packages at thl· designated times listed bdow. Based upon the demand from the seniors and juniors, both packages or just one package will be offered to sopho­mores/law/graduate students. All sophomores/lawIgraduate students will at lca~t be guaranteed the op­portunity to purchase one eight­gamt' season ticket. Freshmen will bt' offered the residual of the eight­game season tickets from above on a first-come, first-served basis. 
Strict adherence to the folowing schl'llule is mandatory, and there can be no exceptions: Set1iors ­Monday (Nov. 2);juniors -Tues­day (Nov. 3 ); Sopbo­mnres/G'radu.ate/Law Students ­Wednesday· (Nov. 4 ); Fresbmen ­Thursday (Nov. 5). The ticket win­dows will be open from 8 a.m. until 5 
p.m. through the lunch hour. 
Crowd-control gates and student security personnel will be utilized for the ticket issu<.·. Please stand in singk lines as indicated by the crowd-control gates. Gate 2 will be open at 7:30a.m. daily. 
Astudent ID and payment must be 
presented at the ticket windows on 
the second tloor of the ACC. The 
prices of the alternatives an· as fol­
lows: Lower Arena -S24 for one 
package, $48 for both; Bleachers ­
S I 8 lor one package, 536 tor hoth. 
Make checks payable to the llniver­
sity of Notre Dame. 
All scats arc assigned in the stu­dent section, but are NOT preassigned by the Ticket Office. If you wish to sit with a classmate, you must present your IDs and money together for adjacent seating. No student may present more than four IDs. 
Married students should report to the ticket windows with their respective class and on the scheduled day. When picking their tickets, they arc asked to present evidence ofyour marital status. 
Saint Mary's Students 
All classes should pick up lottery 
forms at their residence hall's desk 
this week Completed forms must be 
returned to the Saint Mary's Student 
Activities Office no later than Friday 
(Oct. 30! ). List of lottery winners 
will b(• posted in the residence halls 
and in the dining hall on Monday 
(Nov. 3). Lottery winners then must 
bring a check for $I 8 to the Student 
Activities office no later than Friday 
(Nov. 6). -The Observer Ohio State and Iowa take their Big 
Ten title hopes on the road today 
against the aerial attacks of Scott 
Campbell ofPurdue and Tony Eason 
ofIllinois, two ofthe nation's leading 
passers. 
Unranked Ohio State and 16th­ranked. Iowa currently lead the Big Ten with 3-I records, but five other contenders arc only a step behind with 3-2 records, including Purdue and Illinois. 
Ohio State will have to stop Campbell, ranked No. I nationally in tied for first place nationally in pass receiving. 

Iowa will be up on Eason, whose 2,071 passing yards lead the:: nation. Eason doesn't have a No. I target. He has seven receivers whc, have caught passes in double figures, including four who have caught .20 or more passes this season. 
A third key game matching teams with 3-2 Big Ten records tine''; Mich­igan at Minnesota in the battle for "The Little Brown Jug," a ·die of great importance in the past hJt one that has lost some of its glitter be-
Former Purdue player Morris released ­
LAl'AYETTE, Ind. (AP) -Former Purdue University basketball player Drake Morris has been released on $5,000 bond after his arrest on a burglary charge. 
Lafayette police arrested Morris Tuesday, and he had been held on S I 5,000 bond in the Tippecanoe County Jail. At a court hearing, prosecutors agreed with Morris's at­torney to reduce bond to S5,000. 
No trial date was set. 
Police charge Morris, 22, who as a 6-foot-6 forward averaged I 0. 5 points a game during four years at Purdue, and former Boilermaker football player Don Guyton illegally entered an apartment above a Lafaye.tte liquor store July 30. No­thing was reported missing from the apartment rented by Walter Jones and Cedric Perry, a member of the 
I 978 Purdue football team. 
Police said they were trying to 
locate Guyton. 
They said Morris also was arrested 
on an unrelated shoplifting charge. 
Morris' attorney, Charles R. Deets 
of l.afayette, said, "I think there wa~ 

some over-reaction to this just be­cause it wa'i Drake Morris. There's no evidence that they used force to get into the apartment; there's no evidence that anything was taken, and he was friends with the people renting the apartment." 
'There's no evidence that the_y used force 
to get into 
the apartment. , 
The attorney added, "They filed a very serious charge against him on a very fine legal technicality. I think the system will find him not guilty." 
Morris, a I 977 graduate of East Chicago Washington High School, was a starter for the Purdue basket­ball squad his last three seasons. 
Wisconsin, also a contender with a 3-2 record, takes on winless Northwestern. The Badgers should snap a two-game losing streak now that they are back on friendly home grounds and if they do, they will ex­tend Northwestern's losing streak to 28 games, which will match the ..; major college record shared by Kansas State and Virginia. 
Rounding out the schedule will be Indiana, 2-3, at Michigan State, 1-4. The Spartans dropped a 27-26 deci sion at Purdue last Saturday when Morten Andersen's 56-yard field goal attempt blew wide on the final play of the game. 
Ohio State Coach Earle Bruce has a lot of respect for the passing tan­dem ofCampbell and Bryant, but the Buckeyes arc not without ammuni­tion for the task. Quarterback Ar Schlichter and receiver Gary Wll Iiams can more than hold their own in any passing game. 
With Tim Spencer on the mend 

Ohio State will have a one-two run 
ning punch in Spencer and Jimmy <' 
Gayle who gained 186 yards las 
Saturday. 
Eason, who l;las passed for more 

than 300 yards in each of his first fe 
Big Ten games to match the career 
conference record shared by 
predecessor Dave Wilson and Mark 
Hermann of Purdue, has seen every 
pass defense imaginable. 
Butch Woolfolk, the Big Ten's leading rusher with an average of I 42 yards a game, will be adding to his Michigan records. Minnesota's FrankJacobs is a distantecond with a 
96.8 average, but the Gophers also have a dangerous passing combina tion in quarterback Mike Hohensee and reciver Chester Cooper. 
The Indiana-Michigan State game also could turn into an aerial battle "· between Indiana's Babe Lufcnberg who is third in the conference and I I thin the country, and Bryan Clark and/ or John Leister. Clark is fifth in the Bi Ten and No. 8 nationally. 
Catch The Labatt'sisfirstinCanada. 


fighting
• 





----------~--------------------. 
The Observer-Sports Saturday, October 31, 1981 -page 12 
1966 Natimd Olarn~ 

Bombers led Parseghian's squad 


By TIM PRISTER unreal thing that's ever come along. 
Sports Writer I can't think ofa pro club he couldn't start for right now. The only guy who remotely resembles him in the pros is Boyd Dowler. And he's pretty good, isn't he? You know what? I'd take Seymour." 
But the Irish sported more than a two-man show. The numbers racked up by the defense and, better yet, the lack ofnumbers surrendered spelled doom for Irish opponents. Notre Dame systematically rolled through its first eight opponents. Struggling briefly in their home opener against Purdue, 26-14, the Irish outscored their opponents 275-14 over their next seven games. Allowing touch­downs to patsies Northwestern and Navy, the Irish shutout five of the seven opponents and totaled six blankings for the year. 
The grudge match against Michi­gan State has been dubbed as one of the greatest college football games of all time. Both teams were un-
I 
result was a national title and per­haps much undeserved criticism of he~d coach Ara Parseghian. 
I l 
... the Irish outscored .their opponents 275-14 over their next 

continuetlfrom page 14 
back disc that required him to wear a back brace when playing. 
A crowd ofover I00 people were on hand for the practice yesterday, and were present when Andree went down. It was obvious to all that he was in considerable pain, and the arena g.rew eerily quiet as trainers placed the ankle in an inflatable cast. 
Andree was able to make his way off the court with the aid of crutches, and some help from John Shumate, the former Irish center who now works as a part-time assis­tant coach. 


4.15a.m 5.15a.m 715am 9:15a.m. 1115am. 
l.!lOpm J45pm 3:00pm 3·45pm 5·00p.m 5·45p.m 
over the course of the game, six if I can recall correctly. O'Brien had replaced Hanratty but by the fourth quarter he was extremely weak." 
Before the Navy game earlier in the season, it had been discovered that O'Brien had diabetes. He began giving himself injections of insulin, not slowing down his football career. However, the day of the Michigan State game caught O'Brien off guard. 
"The real reason Notre Dame didn't try the long bomb in the final seconds," someone close to the team said, "was because Coley started fading then. He hadn't taken enough insulin that day -not knowing he was going to have to play practically the entire game. He was munching qmdy bars at the end, trying to get his strength up, but he just couldn't throw the long one..." The next week against Southern Cal he completed 21 out of 31 passes, tying a Notre Dame record. 
"The plays we ran were perfect for the situation," continued Yonto. "The draw play to (fullback Larry) Conjar just barely missed. Against a prevent defense, it was an ideal call. We were looking for a break and despite the criticism, we were trying to win. 
"Another thing to be considered was their kicking game. The pre­vious week their kicker had booted a 56-yard field goal. A turnover by us would have been disastrous. We would have loved to win but a loss would have cost us a national title. A tic coupled with a win over South­ern Cal would give us the title." 
A "win" over USC was an under­statement. Destruction was more appropriate, a dismantling which Notre Dame teams still pays for every time they enter the Los An­geles Coliseum. 
Notre Dame had partially avenged its last minute loss to the Trojans in 1964 with a 28-7 victory at home the following year. But the Irish completed the lesson in '66, shellacking the West coast power, 51-0. 
"Sometimes you have games where everything falls into place, every ball bounces your way," said Yonto. "The USC game in 1966 was one t ofthe those kind ofgames." 
And the year 1966 was one of those kind of seasons for the Irish. Not since Frank Leahy's squad 

, allowed only 24 points exactly 20 
' years earlier had a Notre Dame defense so totally dominated its op­ponents for an entire season. 
Defensive Tackle Kevin Hardy, at 6-5 and 270 pounds was perhaps the best athlete of the talent-laden defensive corp. Named to five dif­ferent All-American tean1s as a junior, Hardy found time to letter in basketball as well as baseball, setting the Notre Dame season hitting mark at .398, a record which was only recently surpassed. 
Uttle needs to be said about Alan Page, who is still active with the Chicago Bears. For a defensive lineman to.be named MVP in profes­sional football is as likely as an of­fensive tackle winning the Heisman Trophy, but Page did it. 
Nick Eddy ran for a modest 553 yards in 1966, but brought ver­satility as evidenced by his 96-yard kickoffreturn against Purdue. 
Another multi-dimensional ath­lete, Tom Schoen, led the Irish with seven interceptions and also returned punts, one which netted 78 yards versus Pittsburgh in 1967. 

The; list goes on, as does the legend of Ara Parseghian's first na­tional championship team. It was nearly perfect, except for a tie which brought on much speculation ofPar­seghian's agressiveness. But in the words of one sports writer, "Only the most foolish of critics has ever considered a Parseghian team timid." 
Truer words were never spoken. 

·~-----­
--------------------------..., 
The Observer.-~-=-==-~-=='· 

Saturday, October 31, 1981 -page 13



Weekend 

Mjchael Molinelli  
''NOTRE ZW-iE:",DUR H6TH£R '' WOW, THAT PHM6E" SAYS IT ALL  NCJ'RE JI\HE CNrCS FD~ YOU Ll/<E: AN OVER PRDTE'GTNE" HDTHE:R, .. 5H£ 5:~~g_:; 'ft>l) 50 YOU PON'T 6ROW UP  SHE" CLX>M FOR you, CL£M5 FOR YOU, DOES YOOR LNJNVRY, MAHe-S SJJ?C YDV l)ON'T bJEM{;> TOO H!k:H Tll·f[~ WITH ~EHBEF\5 CF TilE" Of'R)!SIT£ .SCX AND PROTECTSYOU Ff1'0M a=r: CAMPUS CFIIHE' BADDIES  

YOU'F?f. SO PEP£NDENT ON ''MDM '1 YDLl PD AI.JYTHIN6t IO CDM[; BAc:l) AIJP WHEN You PO 5H~ HAKES YoU 
FEEL S?EOAL 
Simon 
ANP NDTR£ PAH£ 6RADVAf£5 AIJEW 5£1 OF LJTTL..'£ BC>Y.S WHO 4D OUT IN/0 TIJf: kbRLP /Hil\11'\/t¥~ II OWES/HEM 5CM£TH1Nq 
ACROSS 25 Hiding 
1 Cowpoke's place sidekick 28 Oceanfront
The Daily Crossword 
5 Supports selling 10 Foolish point 14 Rose's 33 B-flat's 
beloved alias 15 Glacial 35 Small feature amount 
16 "-Ever 36 Wernher­Need Is Braun You" 37 Eject 
17 Uses force 38 Star in to get Orion something 40 Poverty 
20 Corroded 41 Cravat 21 Dream in 42 Mere 
Nimes 43 Pantry 22 Equips 45 Most 23 Something peculiar 
to carry 48 Silly ones 24 Gl offense 49-media 
Friday's Solution 




7 Gaelic 51 Defeats 
8 Flying 52 Flight into defense an Indian arm: abbr. river 
9 Eccentric 53 Enthusias­
one tic review 10 Piddle 54 Level 11 Likewise 55 Comedian 12 Proceed Johnson 
smoothly 56 Words for 13 Containers Nanette 18 More 57 Sale terms reliable 58 Sulks 19 Huge, old 60 Coupe 61 Not at home
10/31/81 style 

Wf ARE" N D 
Campus 
Saturday, Oct. 31 
•9-11 
p.m. -halloween rec, logan center. 

•1 
0 a.m.-12:30 -open house, st. edward's hall. 

•1 
0: I 5 p.m. -nrotc address, chiefofnaval opera­tions address, memorial library auditorium. 

•11 
a.m.-! p.m -alumni hospitality center, north dome, ace, films, information, refreshments, glee club will sing at noon. 

•1 
:30 p.m. -football, nd vs. navy. 

•4-7 
p.m. -american lebanese club happy hour, fisher hall parry room, friends and relatives invited. 

•7:30 
p.m.-10 p.m.-halloween dance, logan cen­ter, live band, refreshments, all volunteers arc invited. 

•7:30 
p.m. -hockey, nd vs. northern michigan, ace. 

•8 
p.m. :..... nd/smc second scene the.urc, "six characters in search ofan author", washington hall, tickets available at the door. 


I 

Sunday, Nov. 1 
•I
:30 p.m. -meeting, urban plunge, memorial library auditorium. 

• 
2 p.m. -soccer, nd vs wright state, earlier field. 

•6:45 
p.m. -meeting, cila, library lounge. 

•8 
p.m. -faculty recital, michcal bjelica, classical guitar, little theatre, smc. 


Television 

50 Frigga's 
spouse 52 Actor Lorne 55 Hebrew lyre 56 Siesta 59 Be crazy 62 Affirm 63 Of rolled 
grain 64 Section 65 Certain 
bills 66 Astaire and McMurray 67 Mix salad 
DOWN 1 Household 
man 2 Adjoin 3 Ceremony 4-Moines 5 Deadly pale 6 Steer 
carcasses 

23 Soften 24 Swiss river 25 Fracture 
aids 26 Jelled dish 27 Bronx­29 Sidles 30 Dodge 31 Torrid and 
temperate 32-nous 34 Sing the­
(extol) 39 Infuriates 40 Famous 
architect 42 Swahili master 44 "I Want-Just Like... " 46 Arabian chiefs 47 Go-(de­teriorate) 
7:00p.m. 
7:30p.m. 
8:00p.m. 
8:30p.m. 9:00p.m. 
9:30p.m. 10:00p.m. 

Tonight 
16  MASH  
22  lawrence Welk  
28  Solid Gold  
34  Sneak Previews  
46  Oral Roberts  
34  Mary Fischer Show  
46  God's News Behind The News  
16  Barbara Mandrell  
22  Walt Disney  
28  King's Crossing  
34  Odyssey  
46  Accent On Living  
46  Lowell Lundstrom  
16  Nashville Palace  
22  CBS Movie: "Killing AI Hell's Gate"  
28  Love Boat  
34  Classics 34: "Phantom ofth~ Opera"  
46  Lester Sumrall Teaching  
46  Good News  
16  Fitz and Bones  
28  Fantasy Island  

• 
BUT WHAT DOES THE STUDENT UNION RECORD STORE HAVE FOR ME? 
CHEAPER PRICES PRICES··· Save 24-32!7o off list prices!. MOST CURRENT SINGLES-S6.50 (compare at S8.99 list). Cut-outs ... $2.98 to $5.98 
CONVENIENCE ... The NDSU Record Store is located on the Main floor of LaFortune and is open 1 0-4 
PLUS-ordered albums take 1 week only! 
OREA T SELECllON...Springsteen, Fogelberg, Moody Blues, Stevie Nicks, Cristopher Cross, Pat Benatar, Journey, and many more. ALSO...recorded and blank tapes available. 
-
SO... for CHEAPER PRJCES, MORE CONVENIENCE, and a GREAT SELECTION stop by the S.U. Record Store today'!! 
d¥4*\-i· 

• The JAMBOREE is coming 
$5 until November 20 to Stepan Center • Nov. 6 then $6.
A night of Music featuring 
The OZARK MOUNTAIN DAREDEVILS 
JOl-IN BAYLEY (Reggae) BUCK STOVE AND RANGE CO. (Bluegrass) 
Tickets on sale in the S.U. Ticket Office. .­

I 
I 
I I' 
I 
I I 
l 
• 
• 
Seniorforward Bill Rothstein (9) scored Notre at the ACC. See Michael Olenik's story at the right. Dame's first goal as the Irish dropped their CCHA 
(Photo byjohn Macor) home opener to Northern Michigan, 3·2 last night 
At yesterday's practice 
Andree suffers ankle injury 
By SKIP DESJARDIN 
Asststant Sports Edttor 
The fortunes of the Notre Dame 
basketball team took a dramatic turn 
for the worse yesterday when center 
Tim Andree injured his ankle in 
practice. 
Initial medical reports indicate that Andree tore ligaments in the ankle, and te.sts continued last night to determine whether or not the ankle is broken. 
The injury occured when the 6-10 Andree went up for a rebound during yesterday's practice. When he came down, the impact twisted the ankle, and Andree immediately fell to the floor. 
"As of now, we really don't know how badly Timmy is hurt." said Notre Dame Coach Digger Phelps immediately after practice. "At the very least, it looks like he will be in a ca~t for a month or so." 
The injury to Andree leaves the ly assess the situation. Irish in the unenviable position of "For now, we'll go with Cedi," having no center. Cecil Rucker, a 6-8 said Phelps, "but we may have to ret­sophomore, replaced Andree at the hink some ofour strategy. spot for the remainder ofyesterday's "Timmy could be back to practice practice, but Phelps said it will be a by the time the season opens, but it while before he and his assistants fuJ. will take him some time after that to 

get back into shape. We'll just have to wait and see how serious the. in­jury is.". 
Irish coaches _had been counting heavily on Andree's contribution up front. The graduatio-n of Kelly Tripucka and -Orlando Woolridge left some places to fill at the forward spot, the transfer of Joe Kleine to Arkansas at the end ofthe last school year simply complicated matters. 
This is only the latest ofa series of injuries for the junior from Birmin::­gham, Mich. The most serious problem, and one that had been a recurring affliction for Andree, was a 
Tim Andree ' ­
See ANDREE, page 12 

Saturday, October 31, 1981 -page 14 
Irish hockey team 
drops home opener 
By MICHAEL OLENIK 
Sports Writer 
A combination of erratic defensive play and poor shooting kept Notre Dame's hockey team from having a succcessful CCHA home debut last night before 2,987 fans at the ACC. Two second-period goals by Northern Michigan spelled bitter defeat for Lefty Smith and his squad as the Irish connected on only two of 46 shots in a 3-2 loss to the Wildcats. 
An additional factor in the loss was the phenomenal play of fresh­man goaltender Bruno Campese, who repeatedly came up with the big saves in the midst ofseveral cru­cial situations. With Dave Laurion pulled in favor of the extra skater, the Irish came up with a last minute flurry that left the crowd on its feet and a frown on Smith's face. 
As he put it after the game, "I thought we did an absolutely ter­rible job ofshooting. We missed two breakaways without even getting off a decent shot." 
The Irish did get a good perfor­mance out of _senior goaltender Lauri on, who kicked out 3 7 shots from primarily close range. Al­though his defense kept Northern Michigan at bay for a good part ofthe 

_game, some poorly timed break­downs lead to prime Wildcat oppor­tunities. On two of those occasions, the Wildcats cashed in for the go­ahead and winning goals. 
Just 1:25 into the second period, winger D"ave Mogush picked up a loose puck in front of the Irish net, ·saw his first shot stopped by Laurion, and then poked in the rebound for a shorthanded scor.e. Bru~e Martin gave the visitors a 3·1 lead when his backhand found its way through a mesh of defenders and finally past a sprawled Laurion, a power-play goal 
which  proved  to  be  the  game­ 
winner.  
Senior  winger  Bill  Rothstein  

started Gffthe scoring when he fired a nice shot from the right circle into the wide side ofthe cage. A little less than six minutes later, Wildcat Dave Smith proved Laurion human by beating him on almost the identical shot. 
After the two Wildcat goals in the middle period, the Irish as well as the crowd dug in for a comeback. Both were partially satisfied when freshman John Deasey scored his first Notre Dame goal by picking up a rebound off the shot of defen­sem,tn Jim Brown and finding Cam­pese in poor position to stop his quick wrist shot. That was the last hurrah for the Irish, however, as Campese time and time again an-
Inside Sports 
1966 team -page 12 
joe Monta1fa -page 10 
L.A Dodgers -page 10 

dpated the Irish scoring attempts . 
' what seemed to be the last pos­
ble second. 
Reflecting on the game in his office, Smith summed up things pret­ty well. "We coughed up a short­handed goal and a power-play goal and that was just what they needed. We had the opportunities, but things just didn't come our way." 
The Irish will be out to ayenge last night's tough loss this evening in the ACC. Face-<1ff will be at 8 p.m. and with some steadier play and a little luck, the outcome will be different. 

UpbeatIrish111l/Stpreventletdownto beatNavy 
If you can be encouraged by a losing football game, then 
we are really encouraged about our football team after its 
14-7 loss to Southt:rn Cal last Saturday. 
We think we found ourselves as a football team, and now as we prepare for a good Navy team tomorrow, we have to remember that we played a good football game and to keep our heads up. At the same time, we also must guard against a letdown and try to maintain the enthusia~m and intensity we had last week against the Trojans. 
Saturday's game was a great game for spectators to watch. There was great execution on both sides and the hitting was excellent. Each team had just one turnover. and the penalties and mistakes were minimal. We ft:el Southern Cal is one of the best football teams in the nation. 
Saturday's performance was easily the bcst our offensive line has produced this season. For the first time the kids had confidence in what thcy were doing and they were really firing offthe ball. That's the reason Phil Carter did so well and gained 161 yards. He would be the first to tell you that, too. 
And defensively, we thought wt: played an excellent team game. People may wonder about that when they notice that Marcus Allen gained 14 7 yards. But he is such a great runner that he is going to get his 100-150 yards because he will carry 
it so much. • It is really hard to single out one player because everyone on defense played so well. But we think defensive tackle Tim Marshall,' a sophomore from Chicago, is really becoming an excellent player. He has been consistent all sea~on and Satur­day he had some big plays, making six tackles, two ofthem for losses. Another reason our football team played well was the work ofour prep squads during the week. They really did an excellent job simulating Southern Cal and that's why we feel they·are the unsung heroes ofthe game. The turning point ofthe game had to be when their punter 


put us in a hole at our own three-yard line midway through the fourth quarter. We wt:re limited in what we could do and when we had to punt it back to them they had good fidd · position and used it to scort: the winning touchdown. 
That shows you the importance ofthe kicking game. 
We fed really bad for placekicker Harry Oliver, who missed two short field goals from tough angles we gave him. If we had hindsight, probably would have run plays that would have given him better angles. But we were trying to score in those situations. 
Harry has madt: some big field goals at Notre Dame. Harry can kick under pressure --he showed it last season by kick­ing the 51-yard field goal with time running out to beat Mich­igan. 
Ifhe had made tht: two field goals our strategy would have been different on the last touchdown. We would have ran towards tht: middle of the field, allowed the clock to tick down, taken our last timeout and sent Harry in to kick with the wind. 
Another'thing that is apparent from Saturday's game is that defenses are becoming increasingly complex. When two evenly-matched football teams meet you won't see the big score unless there are a lot ofturnovers in the game.Just look at some of the scores from last weei,;end. Minnesota beat Iowa, 12-10, and Texas knocked Southern Methodist from the unbeaten list with three field goals, 9-7. 
When you are able to get the ball down deep it is becoming more difficult to score the touchdown. There are so many great defensive athletes who can run now and it is difficult to fool them. They can take away many ofyour options near the goal line. 
We will be facing one of the best defenses in the nation Saturday in Navy. Coach George Welsh always seems to have a great defensive team and this year is no exception --Navy has been ranked high in the NCAA statistics. 
On defense, tht: Middies are led by linebacker Andy Pon­seigo, their leading tackkr, plus they return several top linemen from a year ago in middk guard Tom jordan, tackle Paul Sorres and ends Mike Rouser and Travis Wallington. 
The deft:nse has played a big part in Navy's 5-2 start. The two losses were against two ofthe better teams in the nation --a 21-16-setback at Michigan and a 23-19loss'at Yale, which is currently unbeaten. 
Offensively, we will'have to stop tailback Eddie Meyers, who has gained 666 yards this season and the passing attack ofsophomore quarterback Marco Pagnanelli and senior tight end Greg Papajohn. And if Navy gets close, they have an ex­cellent placekicker in Cincinnati senior Steve Fehr, who kickt:d against my Moeller teams while at Princeton High School. 
We will be without the services oftwo ofour receivers in the game. Senior Mike Boushka, a split t:nd, suffered a broken bone in his lower leg during preparations last week and is out for the season. Then on Saturday, wt: lost senior Dean Masztak, who is one of the outstsnding tight ends in the country, with torn knee ligaments. He had an operation Sun­day and is lost for the season. 
We must overcome those losses, though, and guard against a letdown this week to beat Navy. 
-.. 

The Irish Extra-Navy Saturday, October 31, 1981 -page 15 
Rudzinski's back in a big way 

By MARK HANNUKSELA 
!:.ports \f'rlter 
Don't blameJoe Rudzinski fur Notre 

Dame's four losses. 
Beck, the poor guy didn'reven play in three 

of them. 
Injured midway through the disaster in Ann 

Arbor, Rudzinski did not return to action until 
last Saturday's game against Southern Cal. In 
the interim, he missed the one-point loss to 
Purdue, Win No. 2 against Michigan State, and 
thl· loss to Bobby Bowden's Florida Stat<: 
Sl·minoles. 
lk~pitl" the three-week layoff for the strained tendons in Rudzinski's right shoul­der, he came back as strong as ever against USC. making I 0 tackks against the Trojans; ~t:l"lllld only to Bob Crable's I"5. 
According to his coach, Gt:orge Kelly, you'd never know he missed a day. 
"joe played what I felt was perhaps the best game ofhis cart:er against Southern Cal," says Kelly. "He played with a great deal ofinten­sity, which hl· always does, and just had an outstanding hall game." 
For Rudzinski, the contest was an outlet for the pent up frustration that had built during his three weeks on the sidelines. 
"I wanted to get in there so bad;" he says. "It just gets to you, sitting there watching the team lose. You start thinking that ifyou can get in there, maybe you can help out in some 

\ 

continuedfrom page 2 
new coach than older ones." 
The 9S-_-\0 Sl'holarship rule also has done its part to rearrange the football powl·rs. Geor­gia, Florida State, Iowa, North Carolana and Mississippi State have just emerged in recent years. The Big Ten this year is not the Big Two­Little Eight any more, as seven teams are with­in a half-game ofthe conference lead heading down the'stretch. 
"You just don't have the same talent in the saml· depth," explains Stovall. "The talent kvd is planed out. Two players get hurt and you take a nose dive.'' 
That is evidl·nt in the Irish in recent weeks as sewn starters did not play or saw limited :Ktion against Florida State. Six of those start­ers returned for the USC game and despite the loss most observers, including Faust, feel it was Notre Dame's bl·st effort ofthe season. 
And one thing that is totally misunderstood hy the outside world is the football mentality under the Golden Dome. Fr. llesburgh and Fr. 
.Joyce couldn't really care if Notre care how 
many football gamest the Irish win. In fact, lies­
burgh has made no sl·cret that he wishes 
Notre Dame academk·s would get as much at­
tention a.' the football team. 
Contrary to popular belief there are some schools where athletes do graduate. Notre 
way. But on the sidelines, you just feel help­less.\' Helpless? To some extent, yes. But not total­ly. 
"When one of my kids isn't able to contribute physically," says Kelfy, "you will usually find him talking to his replacement. I've been lucky in that respect. I have guys who are not selfish, who try to hdp one anoth­er. That's what joe did with Rick Naylor." 
All feelings of helplessness aside, there was another, and perhaps more important feeling running through thc 6-3, 21 0-pound Rud­zin~ki, a feeling which many of his teammates shared. 
"I think some of the criticism directed at Coach Faust was definitely unjustified," says the Farmington, :\1ich., native. "He stepped in­to something.that he had never been exposed to -heck, college football is a big business. I don't think people appreciate what actually goes on, the pressure he is under. 
"The team knows it lost some games it shouldn't have," he continues. "We just hate to see all the criticism come down on him like it has. I think once he gets his bearings, he'll produce a winner. It's just too bad people have to make such quick judgements about him." 
All those quick judgements, and all the. second guessing are likely to stop once ~aust and his Irish start regularly comingaway from games with higher numbers on the 
• . Ga-:llf5
• 
Dame football players realize there is more than pro football. All 3I former Irish football players listed on active rosters ofthe National Football League teams during the 1980 season have earned their degree from the University. Others schools may win on Saturday aftel'­noon, but in the long-run tlie Irish are the real winnners. 
As for the NCAA's investigation ofa possible recruiting violation by Faust, it is going to lead nowhere. There will not be the recruiting violations at Notre Dame as there have been at other schools, there will not be any incidents similiar to the one at Arizonia State involving Frank Kush, and there will not be the Woody Hayes types that punch out photographers. The Notre Dame head coach will and has to do more than win football games. 
Remember the words of Bowden who says, "Tell Gerry to be patient and tell the people up there to be patient." 
But as Stove II says, "Time is not on the side ofthe coach." Sad, but true. The administra­tion, however, will stand by Faust as long as he, his players and his staff represent Notre Dame in a positve light both on and offthe football field. · 
The key is patience. In a couple ofyears, Faust's name will belong up there with Rockne, Frank Leahy, Parseghian and Devine. This time the praise he receives will be deservtd. 

scoreboard than the other team. IfSaturday's performance against USC is any indication, that should begin to happen rather soon. This weekend, as a matter offact. As is the case nearly every week of the Notre Dame season, however, there's a but... 
"Navy is so disciplined," says Rudzinski, a resident of Morrissey Hall. "They don't make mistakes. We're coming off ofa very emotion­al game. Teams have a tendency to flatten out after games like that, so it will be very impor­tant for us to keep our intensity level up. They are the kind ofteam that will take advantage of our mistakes, so we have to keep from making them." 
Rudzinski himselfshould have little trouble maintaining his intensity level, since the game against the Midshipmen will be only his fourth appearance of the season. But then even ifhl· 
had been the starter in every game, as he was a year ago under Dap Devine, Rudzinski would l;lave little trouble maintaining his intensity. 
"Joe has never been a tentative person"says Kelly, coach of Notre Dame's linebackers for the past 13 years. "He's a pretty nasty kid when it comes to contact -that's just his nature." 
"I agree with Coach Kelly when he says I'm a very intense player," says Rudzinski, whose brother Paul, after captaining the Spartans of Michigan State, played two years in the NFL with the Green Bay Packers. "I think everybody is to a certain extent. I seem to play 
Bob Crable was surprised at the ability of Navy running back Eddie Meyers after their 
• • • Outlook 
continuedfrom page 1 

The record is impressive indeed: 15-16 ex­
tra points, and 1 5-19 field goals. 
"I've always believed that the main 
responsibiltiy for me as a placekicker was to 
help the team as much as possible," says the 
pre-season All-American. "The pre-season 
honors, along with the fact that this will be my 
final season made me work a little harder over 
the summer." 

The hard work has paid off. Fehr now owns 
I0 Navy records, and his career scoring mark 
of 173 points puts him within reach offieis­
man Trophy winnerJoe Bellino's Navy record 
of 198. 

"This will be just like going against Moel­
ler," Fehr says of his reunion with Faust, and 
long-time nemisis Harry Oliver. 
But it's the defense that has Faust worried 
the most. His team has been unable to 
generate a lot ofscoring, and now they face · another tough defensive unit. 
"It's a great defense," he says. "They pushed • 
Michigan to the limit earlier this season. Navy 
always plays hard against Notre Dame. This 
week will be no exception. I'm sure they'll be 
keyed up." 


joe Rudzinski is back and ready to go. See Mark Hannuksela's profile at left. 
my best when I'm fired up." 
Accused oflying dormant for a good part of ~he early season, the intensity ofthe Notre Dame defense is back, not just in the person of Rudzinski, but in all II members ofjim 
Johnson's unit. Ifit stays this time, then the 
road which lies ahead for the 1981 Irish 
'>hould be much smoother than the one al­
ready travelled. 


... 

Getry Faust hopes the Irish can get back on track this weekend when they take on Navy. Faust says he's particularly worried abo;,t .beMiddies' talented defense. 
• 

The rumling ability ofNavy quarterback Marco PaRnanelli adds another dimension to theMiddies' offensive attack. ( APPhoto) 
~----------------------------------------------------------------~--------·-------­
The Irish Extr~-Navy . Saturday, October 31, 1981 -page 16



~====;:::======· .. ·.·1·•'·
, 
====--=--..=--­

Notre Dame vs. Navv., TheLineups
The Game 

NAVY OFFENSE NOTRE DAME OFFENSE POS NO PLAYER HT WT CL 
GAME: -Fighting Irish vs. Navy Midshipmen 
SITE: Notre Dame Stadium (capacity 59,075) 
POS NO PLAYEA HT WT CL 15 Marco Pagnanelli 6-0 203 So.

QB 5 Blair Klel 6-1 195 So. QB
TIME: 1:30 p.m. EST Saturday, October 31, 1981 
17 TomTarquinio 6-0 173 Jr.

14 Tim Koegel 6-4 205 Sr. TB
TV-RADIO: Metrosports Replay Network 
40 Eddie Meyers 5-9 202 Sr.
TB 22 Phil Carter 5-1.0 200 Jr.
Harry Kalas and George Connor 
23 Richard Clouse 5-9 185 Fr.

28 Greg Bell 6-0 205 So. FB 49 Tim Jackson ~ 116 Sr.
9 a.m. Sunday-WNDU-TV 
FB 33 John Sweeney 6-2 215 Jr. 
38 Andy Skehan 6-3 225 Jr.

39 Larry Moriarty 6-2 220 Jr. E
Notre Dame-Mutual Radio Network 
88 Chris Yelder 6-0 189 Sr.

WB 48 John Mosley 6-1 195 So. S
Tony Roberts and AI Wester 
33 Chris Weiler 6-1 201 Fr.

24 Joe Howard 5-9 165 Fr. FL
WNDU-AM 1500 
89 Troy Mitchell 5-9 171 Jr.

SE 85 Tony Hunter 6-5 220 Jr. 
87 Jay Kennedy 5-9 158 Sr.
WNDU-TV Channel16 

84 Tim Tripp 6-3 205 Sr. T 
74 Keith Boring 6-3 259 Sr.

RT 71 Phil Pozderac 6-9 270 Sr. R
Tom Dennin and Jeff Jeffers 
76 Robert Moore 6-5 240 Sr.

52 John Putzstuck 6-5 262 Jr. RG
SERIES: Oldest intersectional rivalry in college foot­
70 t Craig Smith 6-3 252 Sr.

RG 74 Mike Shiner 6-8 270 Jr. 
60 Rick Pagel 6-3 218 So.
ball 

75 Larry Kissner 6-4 255 Sr. TICKETS: Irish lead series 44-10~1 
51 Dennis McCall 6-4 230 Jr.

c 57 Mark Fischer 6-4 245 Jr. C 53 Peter Oswald 6-2 223 So.
68 Barry Young 6-5 245 So
Game is sold out 
59 M. Woodhouse 6-2 241 Jr.

LG 76 Randy Ellis 6-4 250 Jr. LG 79 Neil Maune 6-5 255 So. 
63 Jeff Johnson 6-4 234 So. LT 64 Tom Thayer 6-5 265 Jr. LT 
71 Doug Borrebach 6-4 235 So. 70 Marty Roddy 6-6 260 Fr. 
68 Dennis Sinnett 6-4 240 Sr. TE 95 Pete Buchanan 6-3 230 Jr. TE 
82 Greg Papajohn 6-5 197 Sr. 90 Ron Mishler 6-4 235 Sr. 
83 Mark Fitzgerald 6-2 222 Sr


TheStatistics 

24 Steve Fehr 189 Sr. 10 Brian Whelan 6-0 185 Sr. 
p 5 Blair Klel 6-1 195 So. P 6-1 
45 Wesley Scott 5·11 163 Fr. TEAM STATISTICS NO OPP PUNT RET NO YDS AVG TO LG DEFENSE TMTL-YDS PBU FR BK 24 Steve Fehr 6-1 189 Sr.
PK 3 Harry Oliver 5-11 185 Sr. PK 4 MikeJohnston 5-11 185 Jr. 
18 Frank Andrews 5-11 175 So. TOTAL OFFENSE YARDS 1872 1882 Duerson 18 108 6.0 0 16 Crable 95 9-36 1 1 0 KO 8 Gary Purk 6-0 185 So. KO 24 Steve Fehr 6-1 189 Sr. Total Plays 419 401 Krimm 1 5 5.0 0 5 Zavagnin 53 2-8 2 0 0 18 Frank Andrews 5-11 175 So.
40 Steve Cichy 6-2 210 Sr. Yards per Play 4.5 4.7 Duerson 33 2-5 5 0 0 PR 23 Dave Duerson PR 14 Jeff Shoemake 
Yards per Game 312.0 313.7 NOTRE DAME 19 113 5.9 0 16 Toran 27 1-6 3 0 0 28 Brian Cianella
30 Stacey Toran PENAL TIES-YARDS 27-257 29-276 OPPONENTS 23 114 5.0 0 15 Griffith 27 3-12 4 3 0 KR 20 GregAIIen
KR 28 Greg Bell FUMBLES-LOST 9-2 12-5 Krimm 26 0-0 2 0 0 49 Tim Jackson
24 Joe Howard 
Yards Returned 0 0 24 3-11 2 0 0
G NO YDS AVG LG ClasbyPUNTING
TOTAL FIRST DOWNS 99 94 Marshall 23 5-23 0 0 0 

NAVY DEFENSE NOTRE DAME DEFENSE 

By Rushing 58 58 20 0-0 0 0 0

Kiel 6 42 1662 39 6 53 Naylor LE 48 T. Wallington 6-2 221 Jr. LE 38 John Autry 6-2 230 So.
35 28

By Passing Autry 20 4-33 2 0 0 91 HampOberle 6-2 214 So. 36 Tony Belden 6-2 230 Sr. 
By Penalty 6 8 18 1-3 0 0 0

6 42 1662 39.6 53 Rudzinski L T 90 Mike Crum 6-2 235 Sr. L T 77 Tim Marshall 6-4 250 So.
NOTRE DAME

THIRD DOWNS-CONV 85-25 92-25 17 0-0 0 0 0 6-4 255 Sr.
OPPONENTS 6 41 1741 42.5 60 Bone 73 Steve Peters 6-4 224 So. 94 Tom Bock 
Percentage .294 .272 Johnson 0-0 0 RT 6-4 RT 91 6-5
17 2 0 67 Paul Soares 246 Jr. Bob Clasby 260 Jr. 
POSSESSION TIME 191:51 168:09 Gramke 16 2-13 1 0 0 69 Bill Triplett 6-4 219 Fr. 92 Joe Gramke 6-4 245 Sr 

Minutes per Game 31:59 28:01 13 3-19 0 0 0 

RE 84 Mike Rouser 6-1 211 Sr. RE 56 Kevin Griffith 6-3 240 Sr. 
RUSHING G NO YDS AVG TO LG ~~~~enn 
9 0-0 1 0 0 

21 ChrisOavis 5-10 188 So. 88 Jeff Lueken 6-5 245 Jr. SCORING GTD PA R-PA S FG TP Bock 7 0-0 0 0 0 LLB 65 Andy Ponseigo 6-1 220 So. SLB 51 Joe Rudzinski 6-3 225 Jr. 
Bell 6 66 405 6.1 3 41 
Larkin 7 0-0 0 0 0 

62 Carl Wagner 6-0 213 Jr. 37 Rick Naylor 6-3 220 So. 
Oliver 6 010-11 0-0 0 4-8 22 Carter 5 78 375 4.8 3 30 Roggeman 5 1-2 0 0 0 43 Bob Crable 6-3 225 Sr.
MG 56 Tim Jordan 6-0 231 Sr. MLB
Smith 4 32 114 3.6
0·0 0 18 4 1 0

Bell 6 3 0-0 0-0 1 22 Cichy 0-0 0 52 George Herlong 6-1 241 So. 49 Jack Sh1Hids 6-2 220 Jr. 
5 3 0-0 0-0 0 0-0 18 Sweeney 5 21 90 4.3 0 12 Liebenstein 3 0-0 0 0 0

Carter ALB 50 Ken Olson 6-2 .230 Sr. WLB 46 Mark Zavagnln 6-2 225 Jr. 
Condeni 3 1 0-0 0-0 0 0-0 6 Brooks 4 16 74 4.6 0 22 Adell 2 0-0 0 0 0 6-1 210 Fr.
57 Todd Hastings 6-3 215 So. 42 Mike Larkin Hunter 6 27 68 2.5 1 13
Masztak 6 1 0-0 0-0 0 0-0 6 Moriarty 2 0-0 0 0 0 LH 19 RaymondDaly 5-11 193 So. WCB 30 Stacey Toran 6-4 195 So. Moriarty 6 1 0-0 0-0 0 0-0 6 Moriarty 6 14 56 4.0 0 18 Spielmaker 2 0-0 0 0 0 45 WesleyScott 5-11 163 Fr. 41 Mike Masini 6-2 200 Sr.
3.9 11
Smith 4 1 0-0 0-0 0 0-0 6 Mosley 4 13 51 0 Gann 1 0-0 0 0 0 

RH 47 Elliott Reagans 5-1 0 182 Sr. SCB 19 John Krlmm 6-2 190 Sr.
Adell 4 6 17 2.8 0 8
Hunter 6 1 0-0 0-0 0 0-0 6 Carter 1 0-0 0 0 0 35 Kurt Dixon 5-11 182 So. 9 Chris Brown 6-1 185 So.

Williamson 1 1 6 6.0 0 € 

Mosley 0-0 0 0 0 s 14 Jeff Shoemake 6-1 190 Jr. SS 23 Dave Duerson 6-3 200 6-3
4 0 11
ND 6 11 10-11 0-0 0 4-8 88 Kiel 6 13 03 Shields 1 0-0 0 0 0 41 John Foley 5-9 176 Sr 40 Steve Cichy 6-2 210 Sr. 

OPP 6 12 6-7 1-5 0 3-7 89 Howard 5 1 -3 -3.0 0 c Schiro 1 0-0 0 0 0 26 Rod Bone 8-2 200 Jr.
ROB 28 Brian Clanella 5-11 186 Jr. FSKoegel 6 14 -66 -4.7 0 
0-0 0 

6-2 Rice 1 0-0 0 0 0 
7 Masini 1 0 0 20 Russell Smith 6-0 185 Sr. 27 Joe Johnson 190 Fr. 
PASSING G NO CO PCT INT YDS TO NOTRE DAME 6 302 1191 3.9 8 41 Howard o 0-0 0 1 0 OPPONENTS 6 2721110 4.1 6 33 ----'----------­
Koegel 6 67 36 .537 3 497 2 
NOTREDAME 477 36-171 26 5 0 
Kiel 6 44 19 .432 5 183 1 477 23-112 14 2 0
NO YDS AVG TO LG OPPONENTS
Condeni 3 1 1 1000 0 4 ci RECEIVING G 


TheSchedule
Hunter 6 1 0 .000 1 0 0 0 0 6 15 13.6 33

Grooms 1 3 0 000 0 Hunter 204 0 Navy(5·2) 
Mosley 4 1 1 1.000 0 -3 0 Masztak 6 13 163 12.5 1 33 

5 4 74 18.5 0 38 Notre Dame (2-4) Sept. 12 beatTHE CITADEL, 17-7 
Sweeney 

Condeni 3 4 49 12.2 1 21 Sept. 12 beat LSU, 27-9 Sept. 19 beat E. KENTUCKY 24-0 
Notre Dame 6 117 57 .487 9 681 3 
INTRET NO YOS AVG TO LG 

Opponents 6 129 54 .419 7 772 6 Bell 6 4 49 12.2 0 13 Sept. 191ost to Michigan, 25-7 Sept. 26 lost to Michigan, 21-16 Carter 5 4 29 7.2 0 14 Sept. 26 lostto Purdue, 1 5-1 4 Oct. 3 lost to Yale, 23-1 9
Zavagnin 2 27 13.5 0 27
Boushka 5 3 52 17.3 0 25 

Krimm 1 11 11.0 0 11 Oct. 3 beat MICHIGAN ST., 20-7 Oct. 10 beat AIR FORCE, 30-13 
KICKOFF RET NO YDS AVG TO LG Mosley 4 2 18 9.0 0 9 Brooks 4 2 17 8.5 0 11 Toran 2 3 1.5 0 3 Oct. 10 lost to FLORIDA ST., 19-13 Oct. 17 beat Boston College, 25-10 Johnson 1 0 0.0 0 0
Howard 5 132 26.4 0 56 Adell 4 2 12 6.0 0 10 Oct. 241ost to USC, 14-7 Oct. 24 beat WILLIAM & MARY, 27­Bell 6 122 20.3 0 26 Moriarty 6 2 10 5.0 1 7 
Brown 1 0 0.0 0 0 

0ct. 31 NAVY 0 
Duerson 2 53 26.5 0 36 Howard 1 1 7 7.0 0 7 

NOTRE DAME 7 41 5.9 0 27 Nov. 7 GEORGIA TECH Oct. 31 at Notre Dame 
Knmm 2 4 2.0 0 3 Kiel 6 1 ·3 -3.0 0 0 OPPONENTS 9 54 6.0 0 29 Nov. 14 at Air Force Nov. 7 SYRACUSE NOTRE DAME 15 311 20.7 0 56 NOTREDAME 6 57 681 11.9 3 38 Nov. 21 at Penn State Nov. 14 at Georgia Tech 0 27 6 6
OPPONENTS 18 341 189 OPPONENTS 54 772 14.3 71 Nov. 28 at Miami (Fla.) Dec. 5 vs. Army at Philadelphia
" 


ThePicks 

Each week, The Observer sports staff GARY GRASSEY BI.LL MARQUARD MICHAEL ORTMAN MARK HANNUKSELA matches wits with Jimmy the Greek's Sports Writer Sports Writer Asst. Sports Editor Sports Writer Sports Writer Sports Writer Sports Editor Sports Writer published line. Records listed are results 51-38-2.573 50-39-2 .562 46-43-2, .517 45-46-2 .495 43-46-2 .483 43-46-2 .483 43-46-2 .483 38-51-2.427
against the spread. Home teams are in CAPITAL LETTERS. CLEMSON over Wake Forest by 20 Deacons Tigers Tigers Tigers Tigers Tigers Deacons Tigers Wolverines Wolverines
Michigan over MINNESOTA by 11 Wolverines Wolverines Gophers Wolverines Wolverines Wolverines North Carolina over MARYLAND by 5 Heels Heels Heels Heels Heels Heels Terps Heels MICHIGAN STATE over Indiana by 5 Spartans Spartans Spartans Hoosiers Hoosiers Spartans Hoos1ers Spanans 
PENN STATE over Miami (Fla.) by 6 Lions Lions Lions Lions Hurricanes Lions Lions Hurricanes Pittsburgh over BOSTON COLLEGE by 18 Panthers Panthers Panthers Panthers Panthers Mountaineers Panthers Panthers 
Duke over GEORGIA TECH by 2 Jackets Jackets Jackets Jackets Jackets Jackets Jackets Jackets 
Iowa over ILLINOIS by 5 Hawks Hawks Hawks Hawks Hawks Hawks Hawks Hawks .PURDUE and Ohio State even Buckeyes Boilers Buckeyes Boilers Buckeyes Buckeyes Boilers Buckeyes ALABAMA over Mlsat..lppl SL by 8 .Tide Bulldogs Tide Bulldogs Bulldogs Bulldogs Tide Tide 
TEXAS over Texas Tech by 21 Horns Horns Horns Horns Horns Horns Red Raiders Horns WISCONSIN over Northwestern by 28 Cats Cats Badgers Badgers Badgers Badgers Cats Badgers Falcons
AIR FORCE over Army by 3 Falcons Falcons Falcons Falcons Falcons Falcons Faicons MISSOURI over Oklahoma State by 13 Tigers Tigers Cowboys Tigers Tigers Tigers Tigers Tigers 
UCLA over OREGON by 10 Ducks Bruins Bruins Bruins Bruins Ducks Bruins Bruins usc over Washington State by 13 Trojans Cougars Tro1ans Tro1ans Cougars Cougars Trojans TroJans SOUTH CAROLINA over North Carolina St. by 6 Gamecocks Gamecocks Gamecocks Gamecocks Gamecocks Gamecocks Gamecocks Gamecocks 
NOTRE DAME over Navy by 12 Irish Irish Irish Irish Irish Irish Irish Irish 
... 





