--~--------~--­
~--------------~------­
Cheerleaders -p_age 1 0 

Space shuttle 
Fuel problems shorten flight 

By MICHELE DIETZ 
News Stuff 
If one enters Pasquerilla East or West today they will see much excitement and last·minute prepara­tion, and with due cause -Novem­ber 13 and I4 mark the festivities of the dedication of the Pasquerilla residence halls. The dedication honors Frank J. 
Pasquerilla and his wife Sylvia of Johnstown, Pa. for their gift to Notre Dame of S7 million for the building of the two women's residence halls. This contribution, the largest gift to Notre Dame from a living person, enabled the University to add 500 
more women to the student body. 
Mr. and Mrs. Pa~querilla are scheduled to arrive at noon today. 
Their party from Johnstown  num­ 
bers 31.  
Numerous  activities  are  

scheduled for this weekend of celebration, beginning with Helen Hayes' lecture for tht• Distinguished Amerkan Series at 3 p.m. today. The ':eremonies continue with a Dedica­tion Musicale. a program of Italian opera to bt· held in the Memorial 
Library Auditorium at 8 p.m. 
Tomorrow, a Dedication Mass of Thanksgiving will be celebrated by Fr. Theodore lksburgh at I 0 a.m. at Sacred Heart Church. Following the mass will be the blessing of the Pasquerilla Halls by Father Hes­burgh, to be held out in the quad, weather permitting; and a tour for the Pa~querillas and the Johnstown 
A special dedication luncheon, the "Festa di Pasquerilla" will take place at Stepan Center at I2:30 p.m. tomorrow. The luncheon is being at­tended by all Pasquerilla residents, 
Mr. and Mrs. Pasquerilla themselves, Fr. Hesburgh and Sr. John Miriam Jones, Assistant Provost. 
The luncheon features a slide 
presentation narrating life at the 
Pasquerilla halls, violin music, and, 
of course, a lunch of Italian cuisine. 
The mistress of ceremonies at the 
luncheon will be Carrie Kirchges­
sner, vice president of Pasquerilla 
West. 
According to Dedication Chair­persons Janet Grawey and Kathryn Guglielmi. RA's from Pasquerillas East and West respectively, the luncheon will be the highlight ofthe weekend. 
"The University planned the dedication weekend for us," ex­plained Ms. Grawey. but "allowed us the freedom to plan the luncheon, which is our expression ofgratitude to the Pasquerilla~ and to the Univer­sity." 
Ms. Guglielmi agreed, comment­ing that "the luncheon is the most exciting part of the weekend be­cause the girls are involved in it I hear Mr. Pasquerilla is a down-to­earth kind of man who will ap­preciate what the girls have done." 
The dedication weekend will continue Saturday with an exhibi­tion ofpaintings by Italian masters at the Snite Museum. The festivities will conclude with a Dedication 
CAPE CANAVERAL, Fla. (AP) ­
Columbia's crew, after taking the 
shuttle on a brilliant return to space 
yesterday, was told that their five­
day mission was likely to be cut ­perhaps in half. The astronauts were 
not in danger and NASA laid plans for a landing as early as Saturday. 
A space agency spokesman ex­plained the mission could continue beyond tomorrow "if things were looking well, a day at a time." The problem was with an electricity­producing fuel cell, but two others worked fine. 
In the meantime, Joe Engle and Richard Truly were expected to cram as much of their flight ex­ercises as possible into today's schedule. 
If Columbia is called home early, 
it will be only the third time in 33 flights that a manned U.S. spacecraft has been summoned in mid-flight because of trouble. 
The fuel cell problem caused NASA to announce that it was invok­ing rules calling for a mimimum flight of 54 hours. That word came less than seven hours after Colum­bia's I 0: I 0 a.m. liftoff. 
Several hours later, NASA's John 
McLeaish in Houston said that did 
not mean that the shuttle would 
have to come down after 54 hours 
-only that the critical items would 
be pushed into that time frame so 
that if necessary, it can. 
Yesterday's flight -the second 
test following last April's trouble-
Residents prepare for dedication 
administration members, and all hall rectors and presidents. 
When asked if preparations were running smoothly, Ms. Guglielmi said that "there's been some bumps along the way but as it gets closer, things go smoother." 
See HALLS, page 4 
Iree debut -began as a spectacular miracle after a plague of pre-launch delays. It soon turned sour for Engle and Truly, who had waited more than I 5 years each for their first space flight. 
In the early hours of flight they were kept in a low orbit -138 miles altitude, rather than 157 -and they already had spent much of the time troubleshooting minor problems. The Mission Control said a major one -the errant fuel cell -would force abbreviation. 
As if that was not enough bad news, weather conditions for a Saturday landing were fast deteriorating at Edwards Air Force Base in California, the prime landing site. 
McLeaish said there remained a chance the mission would be ex­tended to. a third day, or a fourth, "but the present plan is for a minimal 54-hour mission." The flight had been scheduled for I24 hours. 
Columbia's second blastoff made history, for never beore had a ship of any flag tasted space a second time. 
Truly turned 44 yesterday and the launch crew had put a huge "happy birthday" sign over the shuttle's entry door. His traditional steak breakfast was graced with an un­traditional birthday cake, decorated with the red, white and blue eagle design ofthe STS-2 shuttle patch. 
Their journey is officially designated by the Nationa Aeronautics and Space Administra­tion as STS-2 (for Space Transporta­tion System, mission two). 
U.S. official escapes assassination attempt 
PARIS(AP)-The top U.S. official in France ducked an assassin's bul­lets Thursday, crouching behind his car when a bearded gunman in a black leather. jacket emptied a seven-shot pistol at him in a posh residential area near the Eitiel Tower. 
The official, Christian Chapman, charge d'affaires at the U.S. Embassy, was not hit. The gunman escaped and no group claimed responsibility. 
But Secretary of State Alexander 
M. Haig Jr. said in Washington that Libyan leader Moammar Khadafy could have been behind the shoot­ing. 
Police said the gunman, "who looked Middle Eastern," shot at Chapman, 60, as he walked to his car from his apartment 
The Foreign Ministry said Chap­man reently reported he had been threatened, but that he had not ac­cepted an offer ofpolice protection, which will be provided from now 
"I was just walking out of my house, and I noted a young man on the right about 50 feet away," Chap­man said at a news conference at the 
U.S. Embassy after the attack. "He had a black beard, jet-black eyes and an athletic build. He was a very handsome young man -a Middle Eastern type," he said of the man, in his 30s. 
"The attacker emptied his gun very quickly and didn't have time to really aim at Mr. Chapman," a police spokesman at the scene said. He added that it was the first attack he could recall against an individual American diplomat in Paris. A small bomb exploded at the consulate building in I972, but no one was injured: 
Chapman is the highest-ranking 
U.S. diplomat in France pending the arrival of newly-named Ambassador Evan Griffith Galbraith, who is ex­pected here later this month. 
See ATIEMPT, page 4 
Vending machines 'change ' lifestyle 
By TIMOTHY HARPER 
AssociatedPress 
NEW YORK (AP)-Dianne Sauder remembers the last time she bought anything from a vending machine. 
"It was ... five years ago," says the 3I-year-old Boul­der, Colo., health food store manager. It was in a laundromat, and it was the last time she had a s.oft drink. 
But Miss Sauder is unusual. She is not among the mil­lions ofAmericans who chew the gum, drink the coffee, smoke the cigarettes, munch the crackers, crunch the chips or eat the candy, ice cream and cupcakes that come out of those metal boxes. 
Americans put an average of S65.59 each in vending machines last year, I90,000 coins every minute of 
every day for to­ 
tal sales of more than $13.8 bil­lion. That includes more than 53 bil­ FRIDAY -FOCUS  
lion  for  

cigarettes, $2.7 billion for canned cold drinks, S I.1 bil­lion for packaged candy and snacks, S 1.2 billion for bottled cold drinks and 5980 million for cold drinks in from soup to nuts, everywhere from airports to zoos. 
History's earliest known vending machine dispensed holy water for a five-drachma coin in Egyptian temples around 21 5 B.C., and machines offered cigars and candy in this country before the turn of the century. But ven­ding machines did not really come into their own until after World War II, when sophisticated new equipment was developed to keep machines working and from being cheated by slugs. 
There are an estimated 4 million vending machines in the United States: in schools, factories, stores, even coal mines and funeral homes. 
Soft drink machines on military bases and in college fraternity houses dispense beer instead of soda. Bait shops have machines that let after-hours fishermen buy packages of fresh worms. And flower shops have machines that let wayward husbands pick up corsages to soften their homecomings after a late night out with the boys. 
Arthur Yohakm, editor ofVending Times magazine, says Americans today rely on vending machines the way they used to rely on neighborhood merchants such as the iceman, the flower lady, the grocer and the tobac­conist. 
"Today, kids all grow up with vending machines," he 
says. "It's natural to them."
party of the halls themselves. Resi­Dinner at 7 p.m. in the Monogram cups. 
However, he says, the nation's more than 5,000 ven­dent volunteers will conduct these Room of the ACC. Attending the Vending machines have been around for at least ding machine owners and operators -from huge com­
tours, which will include viewing Dinner will be Mr. and Mrs. 2,000 years, but it has only been in the last 20 years that several of the residents' rooms. Pasquerilla and their party, various Americans have come to rely on them for everything See VENDING, page 4 

~~-----~----~~-----~ 
Friday, November 13, 1981 -page 2
ews Brie s 

By The Observer and The Associated Pres 
The Prince and Princess of Wales, tounng two 
British cities yesterday, were greeted by large crowds and lavished 
with teddy bears, rubber ducks and baby booties for the child they 
expect in June. Princess Diana and Prince Charles, who turns 33 on 
Saturday, took a 90-minute tour of a railway museum in York. 
Crowds estimated by police at several thousand sang "Happy 
Birthday" to the heir to the throne. During a brief walk, Diana, 
dressed in a loose-fitting red, black and white silk dress and green 
caped coat, was given a pair ofwhite knitted booties and some baby 
soap by children in the crowd. "That will be very useful," she said. ­
AP 

When Gov. Christopher Bondwent back to 
school as a substitute teacher for a day, he had some explaining to do about his regular job. Bond, dressed casually in a sweater and slacks, Wednesday took part in the Missouri National Education Associa· tion's Back-to-School Program. The governor and about 70 other state officials volunteered for the program aimed at giving a taste of day-to-day classroom activities to those who determine policies for· public education. At Laurel Hills Elementary School, in Raytown, Mo., students got lessons in government, spelling and mathematics from the governor, who also taught first-graders at the Delmar Har­vard Elementary School in St. Louis earlier in the day. -AP 
The eleven Sioux Indian tribes of South 
Dakota, Nebraska and North Dakota plan to ask the federal govern­ment to establish a new national park in the Black Hills, a Sioux official says. The proposed new park, which would be managed jointly by the Sioux and the National Park Service, would also be open to non-Indians, United Sioux Tribes Executive Director Clarence Skye said Wednesday. The Sioux consider the land sacred. 
-AP 

Anti-terroriSt pOliCe raided a Red Brigades hideout in the fashionable Posillipo quarter of Naples, Italy yesterday and arrested 1 5 suspected members, police said. Authoities said the hideout probably was the "prison" where terrorists held Christian Democratic politician Ciro Cirillo for 88 days after he was kid­napped in April. Two bodyguards were shot to death during the abduction. Cirillo was released unharmed after his party reportedly paid a ransom. -AP 
john C. White, former chairman of the Democratic Na­tional Committee, is no longer being investigated in connection with Ubyan efforts to obtain military transport aircraft from the United States. Following an investigation by a federal grand jury in New York City, U.S. Attorney JohnS. Martin Jr. said Wednesday his office had informed :White's lawyer that "as far as his client is con­
cerned" the investigation is over and no charges will be filed. James 
C. Day, a former Texas legislator described by White as "a political acquaintance," received a four-year term last fall after pleading guilty to fraud in connection with a 1979 scheme to act as a lobbyist for Libya, which was seeking the release ofeight planes that the U.S. 
refused to deliver. -AP 
Agroup ofresidentshas raised S3,8oo for a bronze plaque with a 1,200-pound granite base to replace the Kunta Kinte Memorial that was stolen from the Annapolis, Md., city dock less than 48 hours after it was dedicated by "Roots" author Alex Haley.· Wendy Hinton, director of the Anne Arundel Coalition of Tenants, said her group raised the money with help from the Voters Organiza­tion to Educate for Political Development. The original 70-pound plaque was removed from the site at the city dock Sept. 23. A card with the inscription, "You have been patronized by the KKK," was left behind. -AP 
· Police officers inBaltimorewill not be getting 
free food and drink from local businesses any more. What they get they will have to buy, and they will have to pay the full price, officials say. In response to allegations by local merchants that officers have accepted meals, beverages, and discounts on merchandise, Poiice Commissioner Frank Battaglia has ordered an immediate halt to the practice. -AP 
The Chinese governmennt yesterday 
defended a two-year labor sentence imposed on a young woman and said it had nothing to do with ht;r engagement to marry a French diplomat here. The official news agency Xinhua said the Chinese Embassy in Paris delivered a statement about the case of Li Shuang, sentenced to two years' re-education through labor. She was ar­rested Sept. 9, and while official charges have not been disclosed, it was reported at the time that she violated Chinese law by living in a foreign compound without permission. Miss Li was engaged to Em­manuel Bellefroid. Diplomatic sources said he has left China under pressure. "We have no objection to a legitimate marriage between a Chinese citizen and a foreigner," Xinhua said. "We are sure that our French friends will and can understand China's handling ofthis pure­ly internal affair." -AP 
Sunny today and a little warmer. High in the mid 50s. Mostly clear today and tonight. Low in the mid 30s. Tomorrow most­ly sunny. High in the upper 50s to low 60s. -AP 
consult the housing office. 

f-The_Ohs.erYer_ 
Design Editor.................. Gregory Swiercz DesignAssistants........................jim Keyes 
Paul McGinn Layout Staff................................ Tim Farrell Typesetter .......................... Toni Rutherford News Editor........................ Tim Vercellotti Copy Editors .......................... .-... Rkh Adam 
Tim Neely Features Layout.............. Gregory Swicrcz Sports Copy Editor.............. Chris Needks Typists. ~·~~~ Dodee Carney 
Mike Monk ~:ystems Control ................... Bruce Oakley ND Day Editor. .............. Paul McGinn Ad Design. .~ .................... Fran & Mary Pbotographer .............................. Tonia Hap Guest Appearances ..............·. Darby O'Gill 
Father.Griffin . Serious Za 
S~rious Hoi 
Quard :1-kgan 
The Observer (USPS 598 920) 1s published Monday through Fnday and on home football Saturdays. except dunng e.xam and vacat1on penods. The Observer IS published by the students of Notre Dame and Sa1nt Marys Col· lege. Subscnpt1ons may be purchased for $2.5 per year ($15 per semester) by wntlng The Observer. P 0 Box 0. Notre Dame. Indiana 46556 
The Observer 1s a member of The Associated Press All reproduction nghts are reserved 
Second class postage patd al Notre Dame. lndtana 46556. 
Off-campus needs director 
"Gunmen rob 0-C students at home." 
"Security, student leaders discuss crime problem." 

"0-C crime wave continues: more beatings and 
David Rickabaugh
burglaries." 

News Editor --­
"No new director for 0-C." 
Inside Friday

What do these lines have in commom~l They have all been headlines on the front page of The Observer ,, over the last year. I hope that I am not the t only one who This !ine of logic totally ignores the basic n::ason for feels the last line tends to ignore the message revealed t t he request itself-the students want an off-campus in the first three -the University has to take action on director, not just an off-campus housing director. The the problems facing the off-campus students. new director would have no other responsibilities than 
The argument that the students who live off campus to look for possible solutions to the problems which fail to fall under the responsibility of the University confront those off-campus Domers. overlooks some basic facts. Not all ofthe students who live off campus want to be The crime problem is one of the major problems there. Many students have to live offcampus because of facing the10-C students and has nothing to with housing the lack ofdorm space available on campus. The waiting other than the housing office's ability to find the stu­lists to get on-campus housing could fill a few more dents residencies in low crime neighborhoods. Still, dorms. (Don't worry, I'm not proposing the construc­since the students seek low-rent neighborhoods to min­tion of Pasquerilla North and South.) In fact, everyone imize the cost ofliving offcampus, they are the victums knows at least one person that is living in one of the ofrobberies, vandalism, and other crimes. dorms that is not an official resident. Also, despite the How could a full-time campus director assist in reconstruction ofSt. Ed's, students still occupy many of remedying the situation? One major way of using 
the study lounges in the the full-time position would Grace and Flanner towers. NO?~ be the establishment of a Numbers alone make it the ' , rapport between the stu­responsibility of the ad­
dents and the South Bend ministration to concern it­Police Department. Let's self with the problems face it, the hierarchy of facing those students who Notre Dame would get bet­live off campus. These ter results in securing more people should not be forgot­police patrols in the student 
ten or considered "part­neighborhoods and speed­time"; the university ing up investigations after aadmission policies make the crime has occurred than aissue a "full-time" concern. 
group of peon students thatLooking at the decision are leaving in a few years. In economically, it is not other words, money talks.
throwing money away on a What would be the harmfull-time director when one of hiring a full-time off­considers that the tuition campus director on a trialcollected from 2,385 off­basis? The administration campus students could ade­could see how the students

quately pay for not only a full-time director but an off-campus staff as well. If respond to the new service. If students fail to use the money is the problem with installing a full-time direc­service, get rid of it. (They could judge it on the same tor, the administration could tack on an additional $10 basis as the Chautauqua trial plan -ifthe first allotment to raise $23,850 for the director's salary. does not do the trick, deny future funding. In fact, the 
I" !->is rejection of the request for the full-time posi­, second $10,000 slated for use by the club could be tion, Fr. Van Wolvlear claimed the decision against the transfered to set up the director's position for next proposal was made because the job is "seasonal." That semester.) is, the job peaks at the beginning of the year and levels But what lies at the basis of the denial is not a ques­off toward the end. This seasonal trend could possibily tion ofneed or cost ofthe service, it is the attitude ofthe be explained by the argument that after the off-campus administration toward the off-campus students -they students find out the type of job the part-time program view them as part-time students. They are Notre Dame is doing, they feel it is ineffective and take the problems students when they are on the campus, but when they ofliving off campus into their own hands. are in thier apartments they no longer exist in the minds 
ofthe administration.
Another reason for the denial of the request was that most students bypass the housing office in their search Instead of using the opportunity to support the part for housing. In a news article in the Nov. 100bserver Fr. 
of "the Notre Dame family" that lives off campus, the 
Van Wolvlear reportedly reasoned that the need for a decision shows the weak and ineffective method that 
full-time off-campus director was unfounded because the administration uses to deal (or fail to deal) with the 
most students that move off campus receive most of 
problem. their housing information from their friends and never The headlines that will concern the off-campus stu­
dents in the future rest with this decision by the Univer-
A: sf!y_-it's on their shoulders now. _ 
,.~............................................, ....................... 
J. ]'he tnspec:for G£Deral ~ ··1 
J. AComedy by Nickolai Gogol J. 
~ ~ber 13,14.19,211,21 ! :. atS:OOp.m. ~ ~ Washington Hall :. ~ Presented by the ~ :. Notre Dame Saint Marys Theatre ~ ~ Produced in IAlnjunction with :. ~ thelOOth anniversary ~ ~ of Washington Hall ~ 
:. Opening night patronswill receive ~~ ~ one complimentay ticl!et lor! each regularly purchased ticket :illl 
~ for information.call284~4116 ~ 
:. $3.00 General admission ~ ~ $2..10 Studtnts.faculty,staff :. ~ and seniorcitizens ; 
~ ~ 
~ ~ 
~ ~ 

The Observer Friday, November 13, 1981 -page:> 
Indiana Bell sees no relief for delays 
By MARK WORSCHEH 
StaffReporter 
Notre Dame students seeking to take advantage of Bell System's lower rates after 11 p.m. will con­tinue to have difficulty obtaining a long distance line, according to Pat Glasson, a manager at Indiana Bell. 
Students have recently com­plained of waiting up to 45 minutes to place a long distance call. 
Ms.  Glasson  said  the  current  
problem  stems  from  a  variety  of  
sources,  notably  the  switch  from  

Daylight Savings Time by the rest of the country. 
"I have to think that part of the cause is the time difference," said Ms. Glasson. "Because we're on the western edge of the time zone, stu­dents are now more inclined to call someone if it is 10 p.m. there rather than II p.m." 
Ms. Glasson also explained that the trunk line from NO is simply becoming overloaded during the "extraordinarily busy tirhe after 11 p.m." 
"It would not be practical to ex­pand the trunking for that one busy time," said Ms. Glasson. 
Ms. Glasson added that upon in­vestigation, one trunk line was found to be not working correctly, and the line was repaired. She felt, however, that the repairs would not cause any dramatic improvement in service. 
Unfortunately, students are left with no alternative to Bell's long dis­tance service. Other companies, such as MCI, a private long distance phone company, offer lower rates, but require the use of push-button phones. These phones are not com­patible with the University's Centrex rotary-dial system. 
Bro. Kieran Ryan, Assistant Vice President of Business Affairs, does not envision a switch to the Dimen­sion push-button phone system for the students in the near future. 
A lack of space for the equipment in the basement of the Memorial llbrary and the substantial cost ofin­stalling a newer system make modernizing impractical at this time, according to Bro. Ryan. 
Bro. Ryan said that students could have push-button service "if they want to double theix: phone bill." 
"We have a special tariff for the student phones which applies only to college student dorms," said Bro. Ryan. This rate would not apply if a Dimension system were imple­mented. 
As reported in The Observer ear-celebrated Saturday morning. (Photo by Tonia Hap) 

Her this semester, the faculty and administration lines will be chang­ing to the Dimension system in January 1982. Bro. Ryan explained that because the faculty phones were not included in the special tariff, it was advantageous to change them. 
Bro. Ryan sees the student phone system remaining the same until Bell initiates the "measured time" rate. Such a rate would, in effect, measure local calls in the same manner that long distance calls are charged now. This method is already in effect in many major cities across the U.S. 
The change would force the Uni­versity to replace Its system in order to accomodate a new billing proce­dure. 
Bro. Ryan summed up the situa­tion, saying "As long as that system (Bell's) stays the same, we'll stay the same." 
Reagan refus~s OMB Stockman resignation 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Budget Director David A. Stockman recanted his own "poor judgment and loose talk" in what he termed a visit to President Reagan's woodshed yesterday. Stockman said Reagan rejected his offer to quit for having expressed doubts about the administration's economic program. 
Stockman said he tendered his resignation in a 45-minute Oval Office meeting with a "very chagrined" president, who. at the end, "asked me to stay on the team." He agreed. 
He said he told the president that "I have one purpose ... and that is to dispel any notion" that he does not have faith in the program he designed as the president's top budget planner. 
"I deeply regret any harm that I've done," Stockman said, adding, "I am grateful for this second chance to get on with the job the American people sent Presidnt Reagan to do." 
"After reviewing the article on David Stockman ... the president today directed Mr. Stockman to meet with him. Mr. Stockman and the prcident met alone for lunch in the Oval Office from 12:45 to 1:30 p.m. 
"Mr. Stockman acknowledged that he had made a mistake and apologized for what he has now come to recognize as a grievous er­ror. 
"The president expressed his grave concern and disappointment about the issues raised by the article. He expressed particular dismay at the possible suggestion that his ad­ministration -or any members of his administration -might seck to mislead the American public. 
"He stated unequivocally that he would not tolerate any such be­havior, that the policies of this ad­ministration were being pursued ­and must continue to be pursued ­in good faith, on the basis ofthe best evidence and judgment available. 
"Mr. Stockman stated that he shared the president's concern and disappointment. Nothwithstanding his continuing commitment to the president's policies and programs, Mr. Stockman then offered the presi­dent his resignation. 
"Following further discussions of these issues, the president decided not to accept Mr. Stockman's resignation." 

UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO GRADUATE SCHOOL OF BUSINESS M.B.A. Students of All Majors and Fields Invited Come to our meetings to hear about our MB and PhD Programs and to ask any questions about the curriculum, admission,financial aid, and career opportunities available in the 

The Observer Friday, November 13, 1981 -page 4 

goes: 45.5 cents for the product, 
continuedfrom page 1 
52.4 cents for operating expenses 
and 2.1 cents for profit. Those operating expenses, Reedpanics like Canteen to the lone guy says, go to salaries for the peoplewho has a half-dozen machines he who service the machines, replace­services on the way home from his ments or parts for machines, in­regular job each night -are on hard suran_ce, service vehicles,

times. 
warehouse and garage space, taxes

The increase in vending sales has 
and corporate overhead.

not kept up with inflation in recent Typically, he says, the owner of years, Yohalem says, because more the building gets more money from
people are out of work now. For in­a machine just for allowing it on the
stance, he says, vending sales in the premises than the owner of theMidwest are closely tied to how machine does for installing, stocking
many auto workers are on the job ­and servicing it.
and buying things out of auto plant Reed also notes that industry sur­
vending machines. 
veys show that vending machines 

The more business booms, he function correctly about 98 percent says, the more overtime workers put of the time, and ·few people actually in, and the more often they grab a kick or pound on recalcitrant cup of coffee or a sandwich from machines. vending machines. However, Reed concedes a cer­
Walter Reed of the National tain amount ofconsternation among Automatic Merchandising Associa­vending moguls who recently tion says this is where every dollar gathered for an industry conference one puts into a vending machine at a Jackson Hole, Wyo., hotel, where the soft drink machine outside their conference room clearly showed the dents of a sharp
LINES is in operation this weekend. 

and angry cowboy boot. Reed also admits there is

Get off campus--movies, shopping, dining. 
widespread beliefthat people resent vending machines because they are

Town & Country, University Park 

and North Village Malls. 
• Attack 
Buns Friday 4 : 00 pm -12 : 00 
• • • Vending 
so impersonal, but he says prelimi­nary results of an industry survey show the opposite. 
"People expressed an idea, novel to us, that they like vending machine food service because it lets them get away from other people when they're eating," he says. "You're not obligated to sit down with someone and shoot the breeze." 
But Martha Mapes, a nutrition specialist at Cornell University, says people who consistently buy food from vending machines and cat alone are missing the "sociability" of eating with other people. She says they also eat more .quickly, while studies have shown it is better for nutrition and dietary habits to eat slowly. 
Ms. Mapes says her biggest com­plaint, however, is not about ven­ding machines but about the "junk food" in them -foods very high in salt, sugar, fat and caffeine. 
ln places where vendors have replaced candy with granola snacks and cupcakes with whole wheat sandwiches, she says, sales have ac­tually gone up, not only because people want more healthful foods but also because they are willing to pay more for them. 
Saturday 6 : 00 pm -12 : 00 Bus leaves NO Main Circle on the hour, and SMC Holy Cross Circle at 35 after the hour. 
Cost: 50c round trip' pay as you hoard bus. 
ing abroad. It dramatizes the need for the international community to work together to combat incidents ofthis type that plague us all." 
Asked if the United States had in­formation about the identity of the attacer, Speakes replied, "no in­formation we're willing to discuss." 
But Haig told the House Foreign Affairs Committee that Khadafy could have been behind the attack. 
"We do have repeated reports coming to us from reliable sources that Mr. Khadafy has been funding, sponsoring, training, harboring ter­rorist groups who conduct activities against the lives and well-being of American diplomats and facilities," Haigsaid. 
"I think it underlines once again the urgency of dealing with this problem (Khadafy) in an effective, prudent but unequivocal way." 
But Haig made clear he had no specific evidence linking Khadafy with the attack, just his suspicion. 
• • • Halls 
continuedfrom page 1 
She added, "We've had a lot of 
help. We've worried a lot over small 
details, but we just want to make 
sure everything is perfect." The 
preparations began September 18. 
Ms. Grawey commented on the 
residents' enthusiasm, saying "there 
is an aura of excitement. The girls 
are realizing what a once-in-a­
lifetime opportunity this is." 
St. Mary's class sign-up Monday 
The Registrar's office at Saint Mi!,ry's College announced that any Notre Dame student who is planning to take a course at Saint Mary's next semester must register in the Angela Athletic Facility on Monday, Nov. 
16. Seniors can register from 4 to 5 
p.m. juniors may register from 5 to 6 p.m. 
continuedfrom page 1 

White House deputy press secretary Larry Speakes said in Washington, "The president deplores this attack. He is gratified that the charge was unhurt. This incident points once again to the courage displayed daily by our civilian and military personnel serv­


You've considered getting an M.B.A. 
What about an M.Acc? 
Master of Accountancy, that is. Whether your undergraduate background is 
in liberal arts, accounting, economics or any other business-related field, the 
master's degree in accountancy may be the best step you can take into a 
professional career as a CPA, financial executive or other equally challenging 
and rewarding position. 
With concentrations available in Taxation, Financial Reporting and Auditing and Managerial Accounting, Case Western Reserve's Weatherhead School of Management can prepare you for tomorrow, today. We've been teaching accountants for over sixty years in an accountant's town-Cleveland -home of one of the "Big Eight" accounting firms. Northeast Ohio is also 
served by all of the other seven, as well as other important local and regional firms. And Cleveland is world headquarters for dozens of publicly owned corporations, including Sohio, Eaton and TRW. A full range of financial aid is available, including scholarships, graduate assistantships arid grants-in-aid. 
Whether you are interested in taxation, advisory services, computing or auditing, the Weatherhead School of Management and the Master of Accountancy 
degree may be the right professional course for 
you. Call or write for more information today. 
CALL OR RETURN COUPON FOR MORE INFORMATION 
Master of Accountancy Program The Weatherhead School of Management ~1't.. Admissions Office, 423 Sears Library 
CASE WESTERN RESERVE UNIVERSITY
Case Western Reserve University 
CLEVELAND, OHIO 44106 
Cleveland, Ohio 44106 
(216) 368-2073 Please send me information and an application for the Master of Accountancy program at Case Western Reserve University's Weatherhead School of Management. 
D I would also like information on applying for financial aid. 
Name __________________________________________ Address __________________________________________ 
City________________________________State_____Zip_____Phone( 
Current Affiliation ------------------------~------------------------------------------------------­

The Observer Friday, November 13, 1981 -page 5 
Vietnam veteran 
VA hospital admits hostage taker 
SACJUlD HEART
Symphony to perform Sunday ~SURDAY MASSES A~ 
~~~ Masses are for Sunday, llov. 18 

INDIANAPOLIS ( AP)-A Muncie man who hc:ld six newspaper employees hostage to protest media treatment of Vietnam veterans was admitted to a Veterans Administra­tion hospital for psychiatric treat· 
ment yesterday, one day after he was denied admittance to another VA hospital. 
jay Stader, 32, of Muncie, a Viet­nam veteran, was admitted to the Marion VA hospital, hospital officials said. 
On Wednesday, however, Stader was denied admittance to the In· dianapolis VA facility, but was of­fered outpatient treatment, a physician said. 
Stader was arrested for holding six employees of Muncie Newspapers Inc. at gunpoint for over an hour to protest treatment of Vietnam veterans. None of the hostages were injured. 
After being released on $20,000 bond from Dc:laware County Jail Wednesday morning, Stader sought admission to West I Oth Street Veterans Administration Medical Center in Indianapolis. 
Simon sings 
In honor of the 2'ith anniversary 
of Saint Mary's College's ()'Laughlin 
Auditorium, a special performance 
of the South Bend Symphony will be 
prl·scnted Sunday at 3 p.m. in 
()'Laughlin. Joanna Simon, mezzo­
soprano, will be guest artist. 
Miss Simon, .a distinguished grand opera singer, is a member of the New York City Opera and the sister of popular singer Carly Simon. She has appeared in Europe, Israel and the United States, and is currently rcpt·ating hel' successful Giuletta in "Tht• Tales of Hoffmann." 
A frequently-heard soloist with major orchestras, Miss Simon has ap­pl·ared with the Philadelphia Or­chestra. ,\1aestro Ormandy conducting; the Minnesota Or­chestra, Maestro Skrowaczcwski conducting; the Los Angeks Philhar­monic, Maestro :Vkhta conducting; and with James Levine and Carlo Maria Giulini conducting the Chicago Symphony Orchestra. She abo has appeared with the Berlin Philharmonic and tht· Vienna Phil­harmonic. 
As a noted Bach specialist, :VIiss 
Helen Hayes opens lecture series today 
Miss llclcn Hayes inaugurates a series ofcampus visits during 1981­H2 hy women of recognized achievement. 
The series, which celebrates the tenth year ofcoeducation at the Uni­versity, will be kicked otl by Miss Hayes· spl·ech, "The Way I See It," today at three o'clock in the Center for Continuing Education. To ac­comodate the capacity crowd ex­pected to hear Miss Hayes, closed circuit tdevision will bl· providedin 
the  C.C.E.  foyer.  A  question  and  
answer  session  will  follow  the  
speech.  

The Distinguished American Women Lecture Series will continue throughout the academic year, with a different speaker each month. Among the women confirmed for the series to date, are Jane Cahill Pfeiffer, Marina Whitman, Jane Wil­cowski and Helen Flaherty. 
The series has been largely coor­dinated by Sr. John Miriam Jones, Assistant Provost and head of the Ad­visory Council of Women Students. 
Simon 11as appeareo at v1nuauy 
Lukas Foss, and Shumann's every major Bach festival in this 
"Symphony No. 3 in E tlat Major, country, including Winter Park, Car­Opus 97." 
md and Berea. 
Tickets for the performance are The South Bend Symphony will be 
SS for general admission and no conducted by Mr. Herbert Butler. 
charge for Notre Dame and Saint Among the sdections that will be 
Mary's students, although there is performed by the Symphony and 
reserved seating. For tickets, call Miss Simon arc "Scmiramide Over­
284-41 76. Tickets can be picked up aturc" bv Rossini, "Song ofSongs" by 
at 239 Moreau Hall. 
ENJOYA HERTZ FOR THANKSGIVING. 10DAYS 
ONLY  
UNLIMITED  
MILEAGE  
Subcompact manual-transmiSSIOn car  
FOR RESERVATIONS,  
CALL:  ONLYs79  
FORS DAYS.  
219/234-3712  s15.99 PER  
DAY.  

Dr. Randall C. Jordan, the star psychiatrist who evaluated Stader said the veteran was not hospitalize, because "he wasn't, in my judgmenl a candidate for inpatient treatment. 
Jordan declined further com ment, saying that would violat• doctor-patient confidentiality. 
But Terry M. Fauquher, presiden ofthe Vietnam Veterans ofDelawar• County, said Stader was denie1 treatm t ent unfairly. 
Fauquher, who had advised Stade to seek hospitalization in In dianapolis, said "All the VA hospita told him was that he was just feeling 
Soprano__ perforf!l.S in Library Auditorium 
Soprano Michelle Harman-Gulick public, is part of the dedication of of the Lyric Opera Center for the Pasquerilla dormitories. American Artists in Chicago will sing arias frm several ltaian operas in a 
Lee Schacnen, director of the nerformance tonight at 8: I 'i p.m. in_ 
Lyric Opera Center for Amctican Ar­tists and an opl·ra conductor, is herthe Memorial Library Auditorium. 
accompanist.
The performance, free to the 
S:lS PM Saturday Rev. Robert Griffin, c.s.c. 
9:00 AM Sunday  .Rev. George Wiskirchei  
10:30 AM Sunday  Rev. Thomas O'Meara, O.P.  
12:1S PM Sunday  Rev. John Fitzgerald, C.S.C.  

(Rev. Daniel Berrigan, S.J., homiHs1i) 
7:15 PM Vespers Rev. Thomas O'Meara, O.P. 
sorry for himself and that there was nothing they could do for him." Fauquher said Stader needs in­tensive hospital treatme.nt. 
"He is fru t strated, he needs help," Fauquher said. "He's saying, 'I know there's something wrong with me,' but he can't get the kind of help he needs." 
Jordan denied the hospital refused to help Stader, saying he of­fered outpatient treatment, which is the normal procedure in such cases. 
He also denied Fauquher's claim that he told the troubled veteran he was just feeling sorry for himself 
Larger cars available at higher rates. 

This year, forget the homeward-bound hassle ..and hustle down to Hertz. We'll put you on the road in style at a rate that's hard to beat. Just $159 for ten full days with unlimited mileage for a manual-transmission subcompact car. If you are 18 or older. and have a student ID card, and a valid driver's license, that's all you need. TeH us what size car you would like, and we'll have it ready for you start1ng November 20. So call now for reservations and let Hertz make Thanksgiving a happier holiday. 
Rates are not dtscountable Gasoline, appliCable taxes. opt tonal Colltston Damage Watver and Personal Acctdent Insurance are not tncluded. No charge for mtle.>~ge All 
cars subJeCt to avatlabtltty. Cars must be returned to the rentmglocatton no later than November 30, 1981 or h•gher published Hertz Datly Standard Unltmtted Mtleage 
Rates wtll apply to the enttre rental penod, and a drop charge wtll al~o apply. Ask for complete detatls. 

#1 ForEveryone.. 
HERTZ RENTS FORDS AND OTHER FINE CARS 
The Observer Friday, November_l3, 1981-page 6 

Dr. Emil T. Hofman, Dean ofthe Freshman Year ofStudies, stays up-to-date on campus events by reading The Observer. (Photo by Tonia Hap) 
f!mllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll,,
II'he IBM~ Cotnputerl 
1 . tshere. 1 
I vccwSJvaYAr 
I 





I~!!'P!!!!~•
I In College Squcn CICI'OII from Town & Country Shopping Centre 
1 
l•nniiiffiiiiliiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiii•iiiiiffiliiii•iiuiinnl 
;-;;.·.-;;;;;;;~~;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;:;;;;;..;;;;........;.;.._____,.. 
PINOCCHIO'S PIZZA PARLOR -Hours Fast Delivery Service 
Mon-Thurs 11 am-12 pm 

277-4522
Fri-Sat 11 am-1 :30 am 
SUn 4 pm-11 pm 
-Beer Specials 
Every Nite 8:00-10:00 $1.75 Pitcher $.50 Mug 



-HAPPY HOUR 
Mon-Fri 4 pm-6 pm 

Fri-Sat 8 pm-12 am 
4 ft wide screen TV 

E 
s

PlEASE-one coupon per pizza N emmon• 
his coupon good 1 This coupon good J;i•l ]
----------~------------, 1r 
for one I for one ~...boo./" ~ 

juniper 
LARGE PIZZA I MEDIUM PIZZA I'~ ~ 


$1.00 OFF I $.75 OFF I expires11··30···811 expires11·-3G· 811 W 

----------~------------·---------­


FO ER 
New offer 

Senate criticizes Reagan plan 
WASHINGTON (AP) Republicans on the Senate Budget Committee moved to the brink of open revolt against President Reagan's budget pl~n yesterday, criticizing his call to wait until next year before considering tax in­creases or cuts in benefit programs. 
But as the panel opened debate on a binding spending plan for 1982, Republican and Democrat sources cautioned that there was no clear majority either for Reagan's position or an alternative designed to balance the budget in 1984. 
Seven of the committee's 12 Republicans members expressed preference for the alternative, developed by committee chairman Sen. Pete V. Domenici. It calls for 548 billion in higher taxes, S40 bil­lion in cuts in programs such as food stamps and Medicaid and doubling the n 3 billion Reagan wants trimmed from the defense buildup. 
"I think we should move ahead with it regardless ofwhoever else in Washington, D.C., is for or against it," said Sen. Steven Symms, R-Idaho. 
"The flag of leadership is passing from the White House to this com­mittee." said Sen. Slade Gorton, R­Wash. 
Democrats also used the committee session to criticize the president. 
"The notion that this can be put off until after the holidays I think is an insult to the nation," Sen. Donald Riegle of Michigan said in a table­thumping speech. 
"It's an insult to this committee, and I might say it's an insult to you as· a chairman," he said to Domenici. 
In addition to Gorton and Symms, Republican Sens. William Armstrong ofColorado, Mark Andrews ofNorth Dakota, Charles Grassley of Iowa, 
Robert Kasten of Wisconsin and Rudy Boschwitz of Minnesota expressed a clear preference for the budget-balancing proposal to the president's approach. 
Sen. Dan Quayle,oflndianasaid he would support R~agan. 
The author of the balanced­budget proposal, Domenici, was more guarded. 
"I strongly support what I've indi­cated. I feel it is the right thing to do," hesaid after a two-hour com­mittee session. "But how can you do it over the president's objections with the Democratic-controlled House considered almost certain to reject the plan?" he said. 
Domenici ordered aides to dis­tribute copies ofthe plan to commit­
tee  members,  but  he  did  not  
formally prpose its adoption.  
In  the  House,  meanwhile,  the  

Budget Committee was scheduled to begin work on its own budget plan. 
And the Appropriations Com­mitee gave voice-vote approval to an omnibus spending bill designed to keep the government functioning through the end of the fiscal year. The bill would take effect on Nov. 20 when an existing stopgap measure expires. 

Suggests rehiring 

Ford supports air traffic controllers 
INDIANAPOLIS (AP)-Gerald R. 
Ford, who pardoned President 
Nixon and granted amnesty to 
Vietnam-era military deserters, said 
Thursday that some ofthe striing air 
traffic controllers deserve a chance 
to get their jobs back. 
"I would hope the administration 
on a one-by-one basis would give the 
individual members of the air con­
trollers union an opportunity to 
come back to work," the former 
president told reporters. 

President Reagan fired the air traf­fic controllers who went on strike in August. He has been insistent that the administration will not relent and allow the controllers to return to work. 
Ford, who said he speaks fre­quently with Reagan, said he has not suggested to the president that he rehire the controllers. 
The former president said that al­though all of the' controllers who went on strike broke the law, it is possible to differentiate among the ones who were less involved in the strike. 
"The ones who had stimulated 
turmoil, who had been ada,nan!, 
who had violated the law, who had 
created internal problems, I think 
they would be far, far less deserving ofattention than the others," he said. 
The controllers, he said, were misled by the leadership oftheir uni­on, the Professional Air Traffic Con­trollers Otganization. 
Ford was in town to speak as part of a Forum for Famous Americans, sponsored by Indianapolis radio sta­tion WIFE. A crowd of 700 people turned out to hear his assessment of the economy. 
Ford pointed to the recent decline in inflation and the prime in­terest rate and predicted that by the spring of I982 "the American economy will be on the right path to stability, strength and prosperity.'' He chided business for being "much too slow in responding to the tax reductions that the president ap­proved and Congress endorsed." 
Fear of continuing inflation, he said, is probably the cause for -reluc­tance in American business to move forward with new investment. But with the apparent curbs on inflation "I would hope:. that American busi­ness would take advantage ofthe tax 
cut." 
Reagan's economic recovery program could not have overnight success, Ford said, because he "inherited a terrible economic 

Sunday~ Dec. 1·3 
TICKETS ON SALE


No-w--T,-,­
• 

$10.50/9.50 Reserved 
Available at the Box Office, 1st Source Bank, Main Office, St. Joseph's Bank, Elkhart Truth, Robertson 's--South Bend & Elkhart. 
mess" of 13 percent illation, a 21 percent prime interest rate and 7.4 percent unemployment. 
"I think President Reagan will stand his ground. It's a time of tes­ting," he said. "It would be catastrophic if he could flip-flop now, kow-tow and how to political pressure." 
Had he been in Reagan's position, Ford said he would have tried for a balanced budget coupled with moderate tax cuts fgr individuals 
nd businesses. 
Saint Mary's 
juniors host 
Weekend' 
By ROGER WILKE 
News Staff 
Tonight is the beginning of a spe­

. cia! event for the juniors of Saint Mary's, "Junior Mothers' Weekend." This "weekend" was arranged as .a time when the juniors and their mot­hers could spend a few days togeth­er at school. 
Chairperson Mary Kaminski estimates that 300 women will at­

• tend the "weekend." Ms. Kaminski and others have arranged activities from tonight's get-together to a mass Sunday in the Church ofLoretto. Refreshments for the juniors and their mothers will be at LeMans' Stapleton Lounge tonight to open the weekend. 
Saturday morning, a brunch for the participants will be held at 1 0 

a.m. in the Century Center in downtown South Bend. The brunch will feature a fashion show by Hud­son's department store. 
Saturday afternoon there will be a tea and a recipe exchange in Holy Cross Hall and the movie "The Bells of Saint Mary's" will be shown in LeMans at 10 p.m. 
Junior class president Carole Dziminski and vice president Mary 
E. Bunker, along with Anne Clark, Patti Zukaitis, Erin Foley, Lisa Shary and Patty Antoon helped Ms. Kaminski plan the weekend. 
Ms. Kaminski explained that this weekend will be a big event for the juniors at Saint Mary's. "Junior Mot­her's Weekend" will end Sunday with a mass in the Church ofLoretto, with a reception to follow. 

The Observer Friday, November 13, 1981 -page 7 

Zahm soccerfans cheered their team on at last Stanford Hall, but it was to no avail, as Stanford night's interhall championship match against captured the title. (photo by Tonia Hap) 
Cnallobby proposes pipeline 
BLACKSBURG, Va. (AP) -Coal 
slurry pipelines would be the only 
way to create compeition in the coal 
transportation business if hauling 
rates are deregulated, Carl E. Bagge, 
president of the National Coal As­
sociation, said yesterday. 
Ever since the railroad industry 
was partially deregulated last year, 

the railroad lobby has been eroding 
restrictions that would keep rail 
from soaring, Bagge told the Virginia Coal Council at Virginia Tech. 
With the Reagan Administration talking about boosting user fees on the inland waterways, barge traffic will offer less competition to the railroads. Bagge said the only al­ternative left is coal slurry pipelines. 
Already the railroads have won an important reinterpretation of regulations that would include far fewer coal producers under the categories of "captive shipper," Bagge said. 
Captive shippers arc coal producers served by only one rail­road and with no alternative means of transportation. The deregulation legislation provided protection for these shippers by requiring govern­ment review for rate increases in certain cases. 
Now, the Norfolk and Western Railway and the Chessie System, the nation's two largest coal-exporting railroads, arc seeking rate freedom for coal exports as well. The com­
·I • ~t ~t The : 
~ ()11•"•1 ~ Ul NJZzt~ 

Saint Mary's College 
Performing Arts Series
:flit? t:cat £()fnf?§ l>cac:~! : 

O'Laughlln Auditorium
• Nazz favorite • 

Sunday, Rovember 18,
•
•
Mike Daly •
• 
and special guest : 

General Admission
•
Tom Kovacevic: 

.DISMO Students
•
show sta.rts at• 10 pm1e
•
• 
:J()rn()ff()WI at 10:30, enjoy the:
. . 
: talented Dan Keusal.: 

Polish students boycott classes over regional strike 
WARSAW, Poland (AP) -More than 100,000 Polish university stu­dents boycotted classes yesterday, but a major regional strike by 150,000 workers in Zielona Gora province ended. The independent union Solidarity said it would start negotiations with the government next week on the Polish crisis. 
In another development, representatives of 2,500 striking coal miners went on Polish televi­sion Thursday to present their side of the chemical throwing incident that sparked their walkout. 
More than 60 people were injured in the incident at a union rally in Sos­nowiec, southern Poland. The miners, who claim anti-union provocateurs were to blame, demanded television time to air their side of the dispute as a condi­tion for ending the 16-day-old strike. 
About 60 percent ofthe country's 91 institutions of higher learning were affected by the student call for sympathy action for students at a small engineering school in Radom, organizers of the student protest said. Students there were in the 18th 

petitive nature of the international sought to win major new conces­coal market will assure that railroads sions at the expense of the coal in­will not abuse the freedom, the rail­dustry, he said. roads have argued. "The only way we can deal with 
Bagge t said the coal industry sup­this is with slurry pipelines. Only ported partial railroad deregulation pipelines can restrain the instinct of last year in order to improve the the railroads to boost their monopo­financial strength of the railroad in­ly rates to levels as high as the ' dustry. But now the railroads have market will bear," he said. 
MASS followed by
supper 
every
FRIDAY at the 

~IIJ/)ERS
1"f·oF THE LOST ARK 
Starring HARRISON FORD KAREN ALLEN 
6bw6 -2:15-4:30-7:15--9:45 ~ 
PRIICE orTHE crrr 
&lcew6 Swc. h Fri. 1:30-4c40-8:00 
--·--­
&lcmv6 Scaf. 1:00-4:00-7:00-10:00 
1981 
$8.00 

Rossini Semiramide Overture • Lukas Foss
:free Song of Songs • Schumann Symphony No.3 in E Flat Major, Opus 97 
day of a sit-in over-a disputed elec­
tion ofa school rector. 
The student protests were the lar­
gest campus strike since a 28-day 
protest last winter over academic 
reforms. That strike led to registra­
tion ofthe student association. 
Although new strikes by bus drivers and newspaper vendors started Thursday, 150,000 striking workers in Zielona Gora said they had heeded an appeal from Solidarity to end a regional walkout that started Oct. 22. 
Solidarity leaders in Zielona Gora said the strikers agreed to return to work today after receiving as­surances that the union would press their demands for replacement of three state farm managers. 
Poland's strikes have persisted despite Solidarity's leadership call that they stop while government­union talks are on. 
Solidarity leader Lech Walesa ap­pealed to union members for moderation in a speech yesterday in Wroclaw, southern Poland, accord­ing to the official news agencyPAP. 
The Best in 
2Jl0-4:30-7:00-9:30 ~ 
Friday, November 13, 1981 -page 8




Editorials 
Hesburgh extension stopgap measure 
A few weeks ago, an apparently weary Fr. Theodore Hesburgh an­nounced tht he would accept the Board of Trustees' request that he remain as president of the University for another five years. 
The trustees claimed that after a thorough search, they were unable to come up with a suitable replacement for Fr. Hesburgh. 
The Observer disagrees with the trustees' request; particularly because of the way in which the trustees' decision was reached, as well as the implications that the decision carries with it. · 
The Board of Trustees made the mistake of searching for a replace­ment for Fr. Hesburgh, instead of seeking a man to fill the office of the University's presidency. Given Fr. Hesburgh's talents and years of ad­ministrative experience, it would indeed be difficult to come up with 
another Fr. Hesburgh. But university presidents are made, not born. As each year of Fr. Hesburgh's tenure passed, that year of experience en­hanced his handling of the office. The next University president, as well qualified as he might be for the position, will also have to undergo years of "on-the-job" training before he can gain Fr. Hesburgh's expertise in running Notre Dame. This should not deter the trustees from finding a new president; instead, it should spur them on, because the sooner a new president is found, the sooner he can learn the job. 
The Board's decision carries with it several implications, the most apparent being that they have asked a man who has served this university faithfully, a man who was preparing for eventual retirement, to suddenly change his plans. Fr. Hesburgh has given an incalculable amount of time, work and love to this community for the past thirty years. It is un­reasonable for the trustees to ask any more of Fr. Hesburgh, let alone to request five more years of service from him. 
Another effect of the trustees' decision was evident in Fr. Hesburgh's response to their request. He agreed reluctanlty to remain as president, and stated that he has no immediate plans for the university; instead, ~e intends to live day by day for these next five years. While we do not begrudge this of Fr. Hesburgh, a major university needs more than that. Notre Dame, if it is to remain an integral univeity, must have a clear, long-term sense of direction. Fr. Hesburgh has provided this overall direction for thirty years; if he wishes to retire, it is time to find someone else to provide such guidance. It is unfair to all concerned to place this university in limbo for five years. 
Asking Fr. Hesburgh to remain is obviously only a band-aid solution to the problem of finding Notre t Dame's next president. Who is to say that there will be anyone more capable of filling the office of the presidency five years from now? 
There is one hopeful sign to be found in the aftermath of the trustees' request. Shortly after Fr. Hesburgh announced that he would remain, the University announced the appointment of two relatively young Holy Cross priests to the positions of assistants to the president and the ex­ecutive vice-president. While this may have been a mere coincidence, these newly-created positions may prove to be a good training ground for future university administrators. The Board of Trustees would be wise to keep this in mind. Given Fr. Hesburgh's lukewarm receptiveness to the Board's recent request, the next time the question of the university presidency comes up, it is highly unlikely that Fr. Hesburgh will be as willing to agree to the trustees' wishes. 
Hunger is not inevitable. The crisis of World Hunger has reached frightening proportions and, as more than a billion people lie in constant hunger, an overwhelming sense of powerlessness has pervaded our deep concern. The grim statistics remind us that over 100 million people have died of starvation in this century. A complex array of political, economic, and historical factors bur­den the issue further, often con­founding any hope for specific and enduring solutions to the World Hun­ger crisis. But comprehensive research from a broad variety of sources has shown that there is no such thing as absolute scarcity ­Hunger is not inevitable. 
Indeed, every country has the capacity to feed itself. For the World Hunger crisis has not been caused by a scarcity of arable land, overpopula­tion or lack of technology. Many times land has not been efficiently utilized to feed the hungry but rather to serve corporate gain. Economic and social reforms must combine with land and tax reforms to benefit the small farm holder and the land­less peasant. Distribution as shaped through trade and investment can be altered to aid World Hunger. We can. encourage self-sufficiency of hungry countries by teaching them efficient 
agricultural methods. We are certain­ly not powerless to influence the im­plementatin of these reforms through government policy. A commitment to World Hunger can be translated in­to letters to our representatives in Washington. This is an important step. 
There is something more that can be done. Personal sensitivity and solidarity with the hungry of the world is another component n the commitment to World Hunger. In our abundant society and secure en­vironment we seldom know what it is 
Why the fast? 
to be hungry. The symbolic response of fasting is an opportunity to join to­gether with our sommunity in a com­mon expression of our humanity and the desire for a more just world. Next week, Saint Mary's College joins Oxfam America in sponsoring a FAST FOR A WORLD HARVEST. Oxfam, (originally the Oxford Com­mittee for Famine Relief), is an inter­national development agency that funds self-help projects throughout 
''The crisis of World llunger has reached 
frightening proportions 
and, as more than a bil­lion people lie in con­stant hunger, an overwhelming sense of powerlessness has pervaded our deep con­
,, 
cern. 
Africa, Asia, and Latin America. The FAST FOR A WORLD HAR­VEST is an annual nationwide event that takes place exactly one week before Thanksgiving -this year Nov. 19. There will be opportunities to sign up for the Fast during all of the Nov. 15 Sunday Masses at Saint Mary's. Saint Mary's women are also encouraged to sign up through their RA's, who will be distribution additional flyers and information during the coming week. We are requesting that the FAST FOR A WORLD HARVEST be of complete abstinence, beginning at sundown 
Opinion 
-~-­

Wednesday until sundow-n Thursday. Ifthat is not possible, one should cut down on eating according to the measure to which one is able. The fast will begin with a prayer vigil at the Saint Mary's clubhouse at 9:30 
p.m. on Wednesday. A morning prayer service will be held at 8:15 
a.m. m Holy Cross Chapel and various lectures and discussions on fasting and world hunger will be presented in Stapleton Lounge during the times for lunch and din­ner. A Eucharistic Liturgy at the Clubhouse will conclude the Fast at 9:30p.m. Following the liturgy, the participants will officially "break­fast" together a simple meal of soup and bread. 
Why is the symbolic response of the fast an important gesture for World Hunger today? It obviously will not be a direct influence on the World Hunger crisis. But perhaps it will be a direct influence on us as we become quietly sensitive to the reality with which a billion people live. We will not be now feeding the poor, but we will be standing togeth­er with them in solidarity and sup­port. As students, we have little money to contribute to World Hun­ger causes and even less time to give as we run between our endless 
I 
obligations. Fasting is a way ofdoing something meaningful which takes no time-in fact it gives you time. 
The time usually spent eating can 

be used to attend hunger lectures, to take a quiet walk around campus, to reflect, or to pray. In our sheltered 'environment of books, classes, and personal concerns, a fast gives us a 
F=====================================================================================================================new sense of compassion as in­
Liberal criticisms have hollow ring 
The recession is upon us, and the 
liberals are cackling like old hens. 
They want America to believe that 
Reagan caused high interest rates. 
They point to the failure of his 
January predictions for the state of 
the economy this fall and winter as 
proof of the failure of his program. I 
suppose I shouldn't be surprised at 
this latest display of economic ig­
norance by liberals, but I am. 
The present recession showed 
signs of birth during the summer and 
exploded into life in September, one 
month before the tax and budget cuts 
became law. It is the result of the 
highest interest rates, sustained for a 
longer period of time than any ex­
perienced for at least 100 years. 
There are three factors involved in the high rates. First, the Federal Reserve Board has finally become serious about returning to the stable monetary growth expperienced during the 1950s the U.S. Treasury 

has sponged up much of the available capital. Third, demand by other bor­rowers has increased, especially in the short-term debit market. But the Fed and the Treasury are simply doing their jobs, so they can't really be blamed forthe rates. 
The Treasury would not have to seek so much borrowed capital if Congress passed a balanced budget. But for every year of my life, Congress has insisted that the government can spend more than it receives. The leaders in this series of spendthrift Congresses are now trying to shift the blame for the present recession to a nine-month president. 
Actually, the process has been a cumulative one that is now exploding with double-digit increases in entitle­ment spending. The liberal politicians are now out of ideas and 
are left bleating criticisms of the new 
policies like bored sheep. Their only solution, which \\<astried by Jimmy Carter, is to ignore defense, spend like crazy and tax like hell. 
What of their promises? What of their promise that the $227 billion Social Security tax enacted in 1977 would keep the fund solvent through the year 2030? What happened to their promise that the $200 billion Windfall Profits Tax would be used to fund federal goodies? 
The Social Security Fund will be 
broke in a year, while there are no 
federal goodies and we are paying for 
both taxes when we buy almost any­
thing. The results are testimony to 
the impotence of the economic ideas 
of Tip O'Neill and his cohorts. 

The lone solution to the recession 
put forth by liberals is to cut defense 
spending. It has alw3¥s been the 
whipping post for liberal politicians. 
As a result, we have a Navy that is 
one-half of the size it was ten years 
ago and needs 20,000 petty officers, 
Andrew Cocbran 
and an Air t<orce which uses a 33­year-old manned bomber flown by pilots who need food stamps because they aren't paid well. In the meantime the Soviet Union produces an SS-20 each week, a new sub­marine every other week and a backfire bomber every other week. 
Boy, those liberals come up with great solutions. 
Let's face it -the criticism of President Reagan by Congressional liberals is nothing more than the same short-sighted, negativistic, reactionary garbage that Americans have heard for 15 years. There simp­ly is no alternative to the reduction in the federal government's role in our lives. We should stick to it and get the job done. 

dividuals and as a community. The FAST FOR A WORLD HARVEST is aimed at uniting communities in social concern and thus fostering an environment for direct social action. Bringing together people in commit­ment and sacrifice greatly strengthens the bonds of community. The FAST FOR A WORLD HAR­VEST can be especially significant because it is observved exactly one week before the day we give thanks for our abundant blessings. Our reac­tion to the characteristically overwhelming Thanksgiving Day meal should not be one of guilt, for our plenty does not directly diminish the portion of the poor, but we should 
experience  true  thankfulness  and  
prayerful sensitivity.  
Finally,  as  Christians,  we  can  

remember that Jesus set a strong ex­ample of the virtues of fasting, as he abstained from food in order to hear more clearly the voice of his God. The same God calls us today to be sensitive to the injustice of World Hunger. "Do you love me?" said Jesus. "Feed my sheep." 

Editorial Board 
--------______ Editor-in-Chi~f~·:::::.::_················_···_·J_ohn McGrath THE INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER 
Executive News Editor.........................Kelli Flint SportsEditor ...•..........................Mtchael Onman SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
NewsEditor···················--·-········'··Tim Vercellotti Editorials Editor....•..................Anthony Walton FOUNDED NOV. 3, _!?~ News Editor............. : ............... David Rickabaugh 
Photo Editor........................................)ohn Macor The Observer is an independent Editorials represent the opinion of a 
SMCExecutive Editor...........Mary Agnes Carey 
Features Editor.........................Gregory Swiercz 
newspaper published by the students of the majority of the Editorial Board. Commen-SMC News Editor......................Cathy Domanico University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint taries, opinions and letters are the views of Mary•s College. It does not necessarily their authors. Column space is available to Department Managers reflect the policies of the administration of all members of the community, and the free 
either institution. The news is reported as expression of varying opinions on campus, _____Busines~Ma"!!lJI!!" ..................... , ... Rich Coppola 
accurately and as_ objectively _as_£0ssible. through letters, is encouraged. Production Manager...................Michael Monk Controller......................................::::::joe Mulfiur P.O.BOX Q,NOTRE DAME, IN-46S56 (219)283~~-Circulation Manager .............Tom MacLennan Advertising Manager....................... Chris Owen 
The Observer Friday, November 13, 1981 -page 9 
Atnericans tnoving back to the country 
Neither party devotes much time to was 17 percent. Major factors in the improved the saying, "Better redBOSTON -When the results of boning up their candidates on the 
Maxwell Glen
accelerated growth of non­than dead.'' '· It is better to be dead, 
the 1980 census started coming out complexities of the environment, the 
metropolitan areas were 'energy and than a scoundrel," said Bush. 
late last year, Americans learned that economy. or foreign policy. 
other mining developments, resort Two separate news items have and Cody Shearer 
they were moving in a southwesterly Pentagon staffers who prepare bar 
activities, retirement, urban tlight heightened our doubts about the elec­
direction. It came as no surprise. charts and other graphics to help-------------­
and comparatively high birthrates.'" toral system: The California GOP is
But a year later, the "Sun Belt President Reagan understand Here and Now
Many of our parents vacated urban lining up prospective young donors
migration story" has given way to military matters are upset with iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii~iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii.;i~
America in the 1950's and moved to who have money to burn, while both 
subtler conclusions about where Deputy Defense Secretary Frank Yet it still seems worth noting
what are today's well-infested sub­parties are busy grooming would-be 
Americans lived in the 1970's and Carlucci, according to the Armed some of our comtemporariesurbs. The promise of larger homes, politicians in their national candidate 
where they'll be heading in this Forces Journal. costumes. We saw a Rubik's Cube, a 
decade. Figures show that, for the first time in U.S. history, popuations of non-metropolitan areas increased more than three times the rate of metropolitan areas. The November issue of Scientific American suggests there's a bigger story in how people throughout the U.S. moved beyond suburbs to smaller rural towns and villages. For example, while Boston's metropolitan area lost population in the 1970's, rural counties within an hour's commute of this city ex­perienced record growth. The same is more or less true for counties surrounding the metropolitan areas of Albany, N.Y., Hartford, Conn., and Portland, Maine. In 1970, the population of Ogun­quit, Maine, was 944. Over the last decade, however, the Atlantic-coast village 90 minutes north of here swelled to I ,492, or almost 60 per­cent. While the title hamlet isn't about to replace Chicago as the "Second City," it typifies the growth of rural towns in America. "Counties adjacent to metropolitan areas did grow fairly rapidly during the decade," Scien­tific American reported, quoting an Agriculture Department source. "The average population increase Reader disputes Walton column Dear Editor, As an occasional reader of An­thony Walton's column "Outside Wednesday", I am often impressed by Walton's will to say what he believes, and I respect his viewpoint mo~t of the time, even though l al­most never agree with it. However, I regard Walton's comments of November 4 ("The Real Reagan") as absolutely deplorable. Granted, Mr. Walton., the "off the cuff' remark made by the Presi­dent regarding limited nuclear war in Europe is a cause for some concern and should never have been made. You, however, in your violent reac­tion, have blown the event complete­ly out of proportion by actually assuming that the President is now plotting to go to war with the Soviet Union at a moment's notice. How ut­terly absurd! In addition, your overt tendency to overreact has bled over to the President's economic proposals, which, as you claim, are in effect solely because the President's "disarming personality" has hyp­notized otherwise reasonable people into supporting fatally flawed, destructive programs. I beg to differ, Mr. Walton. Could it not be that the President's programs passed because they have some merit? Obviously, you never considered this, and you  better schools and safer neighbor­schools. A lot oftime and money cur­Carlucci ordered them to add car­Pentax 35mm camera, an Atarihoods seemed worth the move. rently goes to these little-known toons to their repertoire to simplify "Asteroids" video game, a'Now another exodus is underway, seminars. what gets sent to the White House. foursome as Gladys Knight and thewhich looks just as strong as well­The alternatives to big money and Halloween came and went this Pips, about I 0 Che Guevaras and five publicized urban renovation efforts. pretty faces, we fear, are hard and year with misfortunes aplenty. Mug­Nazi storm troopers. The new pioneers are searching for few for our two major parties. Yet gings, robberies and a self-inflicted COPYRIGHT 198/ many of the same amenities their they might earn our confidence with stabbing accompanied the mis­FIELD ENTERPRISES, INC.parents pursued. a greater emphasis on substance. chievous night. FIELD NEWSPAPER SYNDICATE Of course, Americans are a long way from abandoning their cities. They still want to live in shouting dis­tance of a mall or a movie. But this, too, may change some­what by the next census. Already, rural populations are growing almost as fast as those semi-rural counties. * * * Overhedrd at last week's disarma­ment demonstration at nnearby M IT during Vice President Bush's ap­pearance at an alumni fund-raiser: A young protester referring to the Soviet-dominated regime of Af­ghanistan President Babrak Karma! as a "popularly elected govern­ment." Disarmament advocates have sufficient difficulty fending off allegations of Soviet inspiration without bearing the label of ig­norance. Meanwhile, inside, the vice -president decided to close his I ,500­~ ~· word address to the M IT crowd with "OK, 50171£ U5 MP P{Uj!JA 51E!J./A Ntx.LEA~ J;l51t1?MAMENTPALT­,56 TllfN WE~E ALLDWf/7 an unsettling anecdote from Soviet ID TAYTO VERJFY711£1RfATY-DK,.507H£N J.J£ VfRIFYIHAfTI£ 5DVJ£1 ONION I~ INexile Alexander Solzhenitsyn. Bush concluded that the Soviet author had FACT V/DLATIN~11-/£1REATYANPMMlN~ NtJCL.fAR WEAPONS Ill OK,TlifN WH-AT???P P.O. Box Q ecstasy. It was good to see SeniorsDear Editor, appear to be totally unwilling to give Roemer, joining in the fun. The music was ex­We have read and heard much inReagan's theories and programs a cellent. It was supplied by tworecent years about the poor relations fair·chance to succeed or to fail (one soloists from N.D. and a guitar-banjo that exist between the Northeast resi­month, Mr. Walton? Come, come, _combo from the neighborhood. dents and Notre Dame students. I am now!) community happy to say that I feel this is oneSincerely problem that is well on its way to The support of the Notre DameMark A. Lynch, President being corrected. Administration was essential.Notre Dame/St. Mary's College ; members Several neighbors said it was the first Republicans time they had seen the inside of theThe Notre Dame Senior Class un­building. They were pleased to meetder the leadership of its President, and chat with Administration mem­Thomas D. Lupo, demonstrated atrespond. to bers also. their "Block Party" last Friday, that University Notre Dame students can be good Thanks, too, go to the N.D. neighbors and that they are very con­Security for staffing the First Aid sta­block party cerned about the quality of life in the tions; to the South Bend police forcould not Northeast neighborhood. neighborhood coverage during and after the party; to the City of South Words cannot adequately expressDear Senior Class: . Bend, both Ex,ecutive and On behalf of the entire University the gratitude I feel towards Thomas Legislative branches; to t_he tavernhave won community, we would like to thank Lupo and the Senior Class; Off­owners who closed from 6-8 p.m.; to Campus commtssJoner Kathythe SeniorClass for their party for the the forty telephone invitors and the Jurado; Dean James Roeer; Professor Northeast Neighborhood. combined N .D.-Neighborhood Over 1400 neighborhood Aut her Quigley and everyone else in­crews who delivereid 1600 invitations Frese suit volved, who are working hard tohouseholds received written invita­door-to-door. build a positive relationship between tions from the Senior Class inviting Dear Editor: the University and the Northeastthem to the party. Many families at­Most of all, we enjoyed meeting Professor Duffy is of course right neighborhood.tended. Those who did attend have and talking with you as individuals. in pointing out in his letter published passed the word to the other neigh­Thanks for inviting us, Senior Class! Sincerely,on Thursday, Nov. 4 that the process bors that a good time was enjoyed by Northeast Neighborhood Council Lewis A. McGann by which Dolores Frese was denied Officers, Board and Members all. President, Common Council oftenure at the University on four It was refreshing to see little kids South Bend separate occasions have never been with balloons playing with Seniors subject to either public or judicial and senior citizens chatting among scrutiny. On the other hand, it seems To tht• Class of'82:themselves and with students. fair to say that the settlement of the You Seniors insisted on preparing Thank you senior class for yourDear Editor, case represents an informed judge­fabulous "Block Party." It was ob­the food for your neighbors and it The Northeast Neighborhoodment that those processes would not vious that alot of time, and care, wentwas delicious. council thanks the Senior Class forstand up well under such scrutiny. into preparing and organizing .such aYou have demonstrated to the the invitation to the Block Party at the The lawyers who represented the uni­monumental event. I hope that yourneighbors your concern and affection A.C.C. on Friday afternoon,versity have the reputation of being legacy will have been that you in­for them. It was a beautiful celebra­November 6, 1981. It could not have one of the toughest employer's firms itiated a great new tradition of bring­tion of community between the succeeded without the sincere efforts in the country. They did not get that ing the South Bend community andyoungest and the oldest. The Unive·r­of several hundred people. If wereputation by advising employers to the Notre Dame students closer to­sity is justifiably proud of this fine mentioned them by name, this lettersettle suits that can be won. gether.Senior Class. would be beyond allowable length to Sincerely, Yours in Notre Dame, Sincerely,print. Tfie cooks were great! TheRobert E. Rodes, Jr. James A. Roemer LynLeoneclown, the balloon blower-uppersProfessor ofLaw Dean ofStudents Neighborhood person and game leaders had the children in  

,....---
Jbe Obscrvc:r friday, November 13, 198I -page: 10 


I Ill IKI\11 <.JII·I.KI.I-AIJ..:K~ (It'll In riKht tup tu'lllo )!'lhdl) Otx-rmlllc:r Paul.;~ Kumn.Jud) ()doun ( V'l 11nd r••w) P.iiUI ...nt·d•. l:d'Aattl IIlin (oU't·n lluh 't'uol·halr., ( lhlrd ro"· J Uun \hank, J>o~u· M.alh 
·. 


AI nnw M).alu:C",lhrrrlradlnRapprantu bC' aU run .anll 

tpmr• nn a ~lurlb" aftrmuun. I'Mtl undC"r 1hc Ati.Miu" ul 
1hr Go&drn l>ume, the jc.tllnvnlvn muc.h murc 
RcKJnnlnM wUh prat:Ut:r!l In tC"hru&r). mlal drtlk .1 Item b ckmandc-d uf all tquad hupC'fuls !Wt-ral and •un mu-.:ln an-thr unly rcwardJ al thnc nrh• prat.llt "' 'f1lto -,UAd l•chctM"n altrr1 wrrk uftryuu&J In laiC' April 
Fur Ihe-dM""n thtnrt'n, thC ...on. tAjull bC'Ktnntntt 
The dwrrlcadcn' nna dly• art" "fK'"' famtU.aruml( on'nt"U wllh CHlC''t panncr. whiJt" 1hi lcprr:'-haun mtll'~~ ahttul aurmptlnl' lo ntnYIOl'C 1ht-ft"malr c:bcC'rtC".Wrr' he-I• OUI I MUlct' 
In nu Umt" 11 &11. tk ftnt publk: apptltant r" m....lr ,u the-BIUt"·(rukl pmc Thoup. lhl• tpmr U. mnfr ul .I phcH••tw:"Mfon Ihan a ('hcc-rinR luk, nnr.ttr~n\ ••• rt"•hlc lhr rt"llpunstbllilk• of chc puaUiun. 1 rulitallun I hal m crnllilkt u lhc wmmc:"r fiWC'rJK hy In lht" mk.l~l ulctk lradtlk,n uf llcx:knr. leah), and Panrf&.tU.m. chc lud•' thinc-rn mu" add In chi' fc-nr, baulc u. ami ~r•l u h• all •·hc,cnmr co thut" ln 1M Nutrr l>amr ltM)(b.tO m'' 
r lk.iUC 

FuntbaU IC'Uun mt'rJtn lntu bakC'tb.lll.-a.'W.m 10 l.11r Nu~nnbt'r, and the 1:nmudluus ACl: bc'cumn itk ~lift' Fuu appe-ar lu hr pra.:tk"all)' on cop uf'f'JU frtc-mh • ht• Ullin,.,_ ,H a1 rhc-ttadtum an: no•· MattnR yuu m 1ht· fxt" ''hal had brttn 1 u"':r·•·wrck cvnu tt'plrllr\1 tn four or murr prk"tk·n hn:nmn almutt a dad~ ncual dunna bat&rd:NIII..:uon And 1hc-unpn-dk·tabtlltr ,uul faoc·poc<d natutt u( tM pr11< ·m..,..ll) 1)1< impurtan« ol COCIIbec-nt crowd pank,peUon M dirn'trd b,-the" 


~:~~. -~~~..~~ .:-i1tt~,·:·...cr.~· 
The Ob!lcrvcr 
Jlrlday, November 13, l9H I -paJlc I I 



' 

Mt·hrr. C lark (,Jlltlctn. Trtl Lunnur ( luurth ru•) 
l..1utll l.c-•tu-.. 'ih11 \Cttii,Jul•• h.tull,l.l. ( kptcl·h~un J 
f'rlr UnutJall)· ~h,llifiM l'o~lll M•• kA~ 

I
' ... f 
I 
I 


I
L I I i 
I 
I 

Prp ralhn. •·hc-thrr fur r..-tthlll ur h»kt'thall. nr 111 urh(or lmportanl fau·c uf ~ulrr Uamr 'hn·rlc~~t.hntl I Uud!illnM t·uunlln~ rult.. ul «.humin. ~:ull ..md ..durmnury atrrnJC1h 'sulltt pipc't.lht unlu'-k) thlrtrcn kl'l murr llkr Wlldkn In l·nmhat rh.n tn..ati&JIIIf'l ul 'P'tU ~arn.llnJC hc'hmd ttk-1r lc-millr 'uuntrrparh. thr mak dlrrrlf'adc-r' nukl the-hana~ uf Jl.IPC'' ~ u'inJI 
" thnr unw•p6.11na lad.k' ., "'tckl• AU 1n aU. lhc 
'' t'XCitrmcnl llf'OC'raac-d In tht)M" thu1, menutn '' well •unh tht-•numb tnl'llttrd ht u~c-r 1r1Jnu• •rll• •·bhc:'n 
lbt' t•hn-rlndrl" lltld lrprrduun &b4t l.ft' •mh'" 'kJnn uf R'Mxl·•tll fur tiM' unl~rNt) t.~l' ltknuftahlr lh<'' travC'I and nr wcn All nttrr chc­':nunu·,· "hrchr'r al humr ur un chc mllkl, cht-y • armh _.-~t't. ml."rt and C'fllrnaln man\ .alum' .an..S wh•·a) alum' Thr'· ur ,·harJif't.l •nh uphokhna cht-•m-ar uf :\iutrr Uamc' an..S hrtniCJnl( I he ~ntrt' Uamr _,.,.nc humr In man) pc-ncm• Thl\ •P«"·• nt ~••trt" l>amr c.:hn-rtna ~ lhr mn.c lrt"MUrrll Tn M"r lht' 'mllC' un lhr rat r uf .a • 
rr handkappc-..S c:hUcJ, ur tu rn:t'IW ath.ank yuu nutC" frum an untunun.atr nri,Rhbnr. I•· rr1urd rnuuJ&h fur all Ihe tun.Wur-...."'taint wuh the-Jnh 
Tnbrapan ufc~ ll'l•uf~P'*-r ••rC'alh what hrlfliC a'h«-rk~r ll all a.huuc 
By I'ETI! BOUJUAU.Y IIDd DAVE RATHGEBER 





~--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­

john Bayley 

T
hejam" returns to Stepan Center next Friday evening and it's fixing to invade the Notre Dame campus with a knee-slapping, hand-
By Molly Noland 
clapping blend ofbluegrass, jazzy 
rock, and good-time reggae music 
guaranteed to "ring the rafters" of 
Stepan Center with its hard-driving 
country rock sounds. 
The true identity of"The)am" needs little explanation for all the country mu~ic fans caught kicker­dancing to Vassar Clement's flying fiddle at last year's event; but for everyone still puzzled over the numerous jam posters plastered about campus, it is the upcoming Country Rock jamboree set to feature such popular groups as "The Ozark Mountain Daredevils," 
"Buck's Stove and Range Company," and "John Bayley". But unlike the previous five band format, the plan this year inlcudes hiring fewer bands (only three), with bigger names and proven college appeal. 
Friday, November 13, 1981 -page 12 
Ozark Mountain Daredevils 

Music Jamboree 
appeals to all tastes 

Buck Stove andRange Co. 

The "Daredevils" making the trip  Most ofthe numbers on their debut  name isJohn Bayley, and he is a solo,  
down from the mountains for next  album contain a rhythmic, hard­ raggae/calypso/ good-time singer  
Ozark Mountain Daredevils  week'sJamboree include five ofthe original band members plus two others who usually play with the band live but not when recording. The seven members are Larry Lee  driving rock beat as background for the complicated, lightning-fast banjo picking of Roger Banister. Banister is responsible for the progressive tenor or the band with  and musical artist whose music bears the influence of Latin jazz, reggae, calypso, British rock, and contemporary popular music.  
First in fame among the three, the "Ozark Mountain Daredevils" will storm in from home-town Springfield, Misouri to deliver their bluegrass sound which has been described as a mix between the hard-driving country-rock of the Outlaws, and the jazzier Pablo Cruise. And although they like to retai::l their image ofa "hometown, good-time country-rock band, the  (on the drums, piano and guitar); Steve Canaday (drums and guitar); John Dillon (guitar); Randy Chowing (lead guitar); Steve Cash (Harmonica, percussion, poet and . singer); Michael"Supe"Granda · (bass); and Terry Wilson (guitar). And although the "Ozark Moun­tain Daredevils" have become more sophisticated in their techniques, they have retained their family spirit  his traditional bluegrass mixed with the pyrotechnica! style ofthe future. Banister's sister, Denise, lends a righ mellow touch with her lead vo­cals and inventive electric bass playing. Charlie Brown adds a jazzy toud to the sound with his mandolin talents tempered by the influence o great jazz mandolinists including Jethro Burns, John Coltrane, McCoy  Believing he could reach more soles by singing and entertain­ing than by reading the bible, Bayley went from a part-time, coffee house player to a professional artist. That was ten years ago, and since then Bayley has grown from an evangilis­tic folk musician to a popular nation­al musical artist, adding pop, jazz, and rock to his repetoire.  
Daredevils boast seven albums and a world-wide following. Born ten years ago in Springfield, the Ozark Mountain Daredevils have gone through label, manager, and member changes without altering their style or philosophy. As they en­ter the eighties, the Ozarks are back to the five original members (plus several others when traveling), have switched record labels from A &. M to the worldwide CBS Records, and joined forces withJohn Boylan-a producer known for his work with Linda Ronstadt, The Charlie Daniels  and promise not to disappoint old fans while doing their best to make new friends. Buck Stove and Range -Co. Termed a progressive bluegrass group, Buck's Stove and Range Com­pany combines the traditional bluegrasssounds with a progressive, forward reaching classical style.  Tyner, David Grisman and Stephane Grappelli. Completing the quartet's make-up is Brad Hevron, who lends lead vo-·. cals, guitar, and most of the bands original material. ~~~~~~~~ John Bayley ..... ~~~~ ............ ~ Rounding out the entertainment trio is a musician whose entire life, including history, musical style, and personal outlook can be summed up with one key word: unique. His  A favorite on college campuses across the nation for his electrifying energy and pulsating rock style of the Caribbean, Bailey possesses one ofthose rare, charismatic stage per­sonalities that captivates the audience and keeps them every­thing but "rooted to their seats." But what is so amazing about this com­plete captivation, is that Bailey ac­complishes it all by himself, aided only by a mandolin, a bazouka, two guitars and all the Latin and African persussion instruments.  

Only on Friday the 13th 
t:ncounters ot this spectral thing are 
A 
day or two ago, I was giving a usage ofthe term, 'superstition,' I documented and freely circulatedtour of Notre Dame to an old asked Noah what exacty supersti­within the Communications andfriend ofmine named Noah tion means. Definitions are his field, Theater Department.
(Webster, not Drake!) We talked of you know, Noah, getting extremely restless,many characteristically Domish 
"Superstition: a beliefor practice queried me, "Illuminating the mind resulting from ignorance, fear ofthe and alleviating ignorance and fearBy Tari Brown unknown, or trust in magic or are the endeavors in which you are chance. It seems to me that your engaged at this university, are they ghGst arises from ignorance ofwhat not?"
things, the Golden Dome, the foot­is actually there or fear ofdiscover­"That is what 'Du Lac' says. Still, ball team and the ghost of Washing­
ing some other more scientific ex­
Noah, we hang onto the myths thatton Hall. For all oftpose who have 
planation ofthe evidence that you 
we have invented to explain thatnever had a third encounter ofthe 

cite to support its existence." 
which we can't immediately ex­

spectral kind, a ghost inhabits the plain. Look at the creation myths of
hallowed hollows ofWashington I seem to recall someone saying the Greeks and in the Bible. People
Hall. just the same thing.11bout what is un­still believe in them despite the ad-
Noah asked me about this super­der the Golden Dome and what goes • vanced state oflearning that existsstition. It seemed odd to him that an on with the football team. The su­

today." "Might I ask, do you believe in them, word for word?" 
"No, not word for word. I do believe that they have some sig­nificance, but not taken literallly. They are explanations... " 
"Inadequate ones at that!" "Maybe, but they do have a his­torical and sociological value." 

"True. I am glad to see that this university has taught you how to dis­tinguish between the myth and the 
reality. I wish I could say the same 

institution ofsuch extraordinary perstitions abound as to how this 
for these superstitions. I fail to un­

learning could foster beliefin super­'loco in parentis' person watches 
derstand why you persist in believ­

stitions. He didn't realize what he eight thousand-plus students and at­
ing in this ghost and 'Friday the 

was actually saying. tempts to discipline them all. The 
13th."' 

With Friday the 13th fast ap­football team seems to be-amatter of 
"Noah, I really don't. I'm a skeptic
proaching, I thought that the topic superstition that some people 
from way back. I intentionally walk 
ofsuperstition was a rather relevent (atheiSts; ofcourse) would call 
under ladders and play with black 

one to be discussing. So that we prayer. The ghost ofWashington 
cats, inviting all the evil spirits I can 
might both be confident in our Hall, though, is a different matter. 

to honor my presence with their mystical powers. Listen, Noah, my greatest preoccupation in life is curing myself.of a terminal case ofig­norance. That's why I am here." 
"You confuse me. Earlier you described explicitly an encounter with this ghost. Now you don't believe in it." 
"I didn't have a personal encoun­ter with it. A friend did." 
"And you believe this friend, with· out any first-hand evidence?" 
"well..... 
I wonder what the ghost is doing Friday the 13th. Maybe I'll pay it a visit. For evidence-gathering, of course. 
The Observer--Features Friday, November 13, 1981 page 13 
Campus stereotypes


Darby at Sundance 
cause awkwardness 
F
or four weeks now, Darby O'Gill II has been going to obedience school. For four Thursdays, he has been moving through lesson plans teaching him to respond to such excellent canine commands as "Heel" -"Sit" -"Stay" -"Come" -"Left"; and next week he will be instructed in the ever-popular"Stand"-useful beyond words, I'm told, in the veterinarian's office when he goes to be checked for hernia. He is an independent creature, full ofthe desire to be self-directed, or put more basely, the instinct to do everything he damn well wants to do. Weary ofhis petty rebellions, I enjoy seeing him groomed into discipline at the end ofa leash, though sometimes I suffer from guilt like that of an im­perial government conquering colonies. Yet I sense fear in him, and I fed bad at feeling him tremble because he is in an unfamiliar place where there arc other creatures wilder than himself. At Sundance School, where O'Gill is being educated, they keep a mustang brought in from the West, and five timber wolves, tame enough to be patted, so they tell me; and an English mastiff whose an­cestors were used by the Romans to bring down lions, and a huge white rooster which seems contemptuous of spaniels as he struts by us. I think they must remind Darby, himself as domestic as a hearth rug, ofsome dark,. primitive force from a predatory world where fierce­ness is necessary for survival. 
Despite fear, he tries really hard; and he's as bright as a Phi Beta Kappa. When he has successfully executed a command, he looks up at me as though to ask: "Is this what you expect of me?" It is my turn to confirm his peformance by offering loving approval. He then trots off as though he felt quite grownup and proud ofhimself for meeting the standards of maturity. 
Right now, he is still in the first days ofbootcamp at Sundance, and he wears a choke collar as an equivalent to battle fatigues. His commands are communicated to him through a training leash. As he approaches the end ofhis novitiate, he will learn to "come" and "stand" and "heel" at a spoken word, and the leash will no longer be necessary. Life will be simpler for me, and enriched for him, I think, when we can move from Pasquerilla West to the post office without visiting garbage dumps. 
Obedience school is as necessary for me as Darby's 
master as it is for Darby. There is no lesson I teach him 
without there being an equivalent lesson I must 

Rev. Robert GriffiJl 
Letters to a Lonely God . 
correcting him when he makes a mistake, and prompt to offer him congratulations when he pleases me with a graceful performance. A woman I know says she thinks it might help her marriage if she brought her husband to Sundance School to learn obedience. I agreed it would probably do him good, but he should bring along papers indicating whether he's been registered as a thoroughbred. Trainers know better what to expect ofa trainee whose breeding they are familiar with. 
Obedience school is full ofmetaphors for life. 1 so~etime~ think: here is a little dog learning lessons. My extstence ts more complicated than his existence, but the distance between us is finite. I, like Darby, am familiar with fear, as though life itself were a dangerous place I couldn't rust. Faith and common sense can become habits that tug at my mind like a leash when I am tempted to run off wildly in all directions except home, and I wait for a kindly word that will settle me down to a quiet waiting. I am anxious to be assured by the touch or word oflove when I have tried hard to avoid mistakes, walking beside someone who sets the pace without my reacting ahead or dragging behind as though I were in charge ofchoosing directions. Watch­ing Darby go to school has been as rewardingfor me as a seminary retreat. 
Darby should finish school at Sundance in time for his second birthday on December 17. He will be "at home" -waiting for congratulatory bones -to his friends in Pasquerilla West that day. In the meantime, he has homework to do. "Lie down" is this week's lesson. Ifwe wait until Wednesday to practice, as we've done some weeks, we may have to pull an all-nighter like a fresh· man chemist. His education is expensive. What Father Hesburgh says is as true for Darby as it is for the rest of us: education is the one thing we pay for and don't want our money's worth. That's very foolish when you are a 
h
ere at Notre Dame, we are shielded from a lot ofthe hard, cold realities ofthe everyday world. One thing Our Mother can't hide us from though, Is ourselves, and we must constantly confront human nature and all its trappings. Like bad breath and body odor, snap judgments and stereotyping have been, and will be, an integral part ofday-to-day life for a long time. 
Notre Dame is an especially fertile ground for this most common ofhuman vices. Whenever a group ofpeople ofdifferent interests and backgrounds assemble, misjudgment is bound to occur. Here you'll find people judging you on the basis ofa) your major, b) '-, where you're from, c) what year you are, d) anything else that strikes their fancy. Some ofthe most common: 
Business majors -one of my personal favorites. The business major can usually be found parked in front ofa TV or out on the quad ~ith a frisbee, fervently Insist-.. ·•·' :~ . ·m § • tng that business is just as hard . m i§ as any other major, and boy, 
Robert Wack 
do they do a lot ofwork. They are right, ofcourse. Have you ever tried to get up for Eagan's H\.unor B-law course after a night at Corby's? Xeroxing 30 pages ofsomeone else's notes and copymg those stupid accounting problems is a real pain, too. 
Pre-Meds-one ofthe most widely known and derided. When pre-med is mentioned, visions ofwild-eyed brary rats spring to mind slightly crazed from lack ofsleep. They walk around like hunted ' animals, flinching at sudden movements or sounds, always alert for pop quizzes. Their lives are like constant final exams, and they live.in mortal fear ofB's. Some people think that a pre-med wouldn't love anything better than to hear that halfofhis Orgo class was killed in a -.... lab explosion, but they still had to hand in their reports. 
Arts a~d Letters -the real blow offs. How can anyone seriously call readmg work? All they do is sit around and throw 'likes' and 'y'.knows' back and forth, chasing their tails in discussion for fifty mmutes, and then patting themselves on the back for being deep. A&L people are usually blamed for writing on the sidewalks and ridiculous letters in the Observer protesting the exploitatin of dining hall workers. They are also blamed for a good portion ofthe unemployment in this country. 
Engineers -a very interesting case. The common conception of the enginectr is a greasy haired, pepperoni faced, four-eyed wimp who talks to his calculator and would rather stay in on weekends and write programs. Boy, have they got us fooled. Most ofthem just sit aro~nd and drag down the curve for the real smart ones, laughing in 
dog attending Sundance, going to school amongpractice myself. A dog cannot be taught steadiness at wolves.the end ofa faltering leash. I must be patient and firm in  their r>leeves the whole time at everyone else because they know no matter how bad they do, some company is going to pay them astronomical sums of money for doing next to nothing. SMC chicks -bedecked in their colorful native garb, these are the fierc~st ofpredators known to graduating males. They will stop at -nothtng to successfully ensnare an unsuspecting senior with a half­way market~ble degree. Their favorite prey is usually either pre­meds or engmeers, although they will also accept a law school bound business major. . N.D. girls ­depending on what I write, I could conceivably generat~ enough irate mail to last the rest ofthe year, so I guess I'll leave thts one alone. Now that I've succeeded in alienating almost everyone on campus, I guess it is time to quit.  
Movie review Prince' commands tribUte narcotics for an informant, the often followed by dialogue whichAfter a recent viewing of Frank detective begins to question his seems to say "No hard feelings,Capra'sMr. Smith goes to Wash­methods. Provided with an oppor­huh?" This mentality reflects theington a friend ofmine commented, tunity to assist an investigation into disturbing possibilities of urban"We've lost our Innocence...." Im­police corruption, Danny agonizes madness.plicit in my friend's observation was over his postion. Finally he agrees to Lumet has directed several out­wear a tape recorder in order to standing films in the past decadeBy Patrick Mulligan gather evidence for the commission. (Serpico, Dog Day Afternoon, Net­By cooperating with the inves­work), but this is his finest work an elegiac longing for a time when tigators Ciello hopes to urg~ himself since Long Day'sjourney Into we could at least imagine ourselves ofguilt; "I want to feel good again...," Night. The director conveys a possessing innocence. Sidney he tells his wife. pristine tone of urban bleakness Lumet's Prince ofthe City offers a Ciello's participation in the inves­through some superb camera angles bleak inversion ofthis idea: modern tigation leads him through a and photography. A sense of society doubts whether nightmarish odyssey of urban enclosure dominates the film: many "innocence" has ever existed. Lumet's film suggests a Darwinian­tinged pragmatism has replaced the Ideals ofthe past. The central figure Prince ****'of the City ofthe film, Detective Danny Clello (Treat Williams), embodies this philosophy. As much as the paranoia. An endless chain ofcor­scenes take place in sparsely fur­audience wants to empathize with ruption and backstabbing charac­nished rooms; Ciello is surrounded  
Trivia Quiz VIII Herewe go again ...another quiz to baffle and amuse you. But first, as usual, here are last week's answers: By Tim Neely I. Meet the Beatles!; 2. "Some Days Are Diamonds" ( 20 weeks); 3. Creedence Clearwater Revival; 4. "You Light Up My Life" by Debby ~oon~ (I ~77); 5. "Second step, tell her she's the one you're dream­mg of ; 6. Chapter two, you tell her you're never, never never never, never gonna part"; 7. "Stand by me all the while"· 8: Dr H ' k and the M~di~ine Show and Lynyrd Skynyrd, respectiv~ly; 9. Eit~:r A Hard DaysNtght orAbbeyRoad is acceptable; I 0. "Lisbon Antigua" by Nelson Riddle ( 1956).  
Danny's struggle against corruption, terizes every level of jurisprudence. by a detail ofheavily armed guards that empathy is tempered by the While Danny's plight appeals to our before he gives testimony; a feeling selfish motives which lead Ciello to sense ofrighteousness, Lumet's ofclaustrophobia grips the viewer confess his guilt. Modern America camera maintains a subtle detach­during the trials. In Capra's Mr. has no room for Capra's Jefferson ment. Why has this detective come Smith... confinement in the Senate Smith. Instead we have Danny Ciello forward to expose a graft-infested chambers leads to vindication and -and the notion that morality is no system when he himself has liberation; Lumet's restricted space longer an unequivocal proposition. benefitted from that system? Danny leads to ambiguity and helplessness. Danny Ciello, a detective in the Ciello yearns for a catharsis, but his Prince ofthe City is an emotional­Special Investigating Unit ofthe determination is single-minded to ly draining ordeal. The scope oftheNew York Police Department, faces the point ofdestruction. His fault director's composition is immense: an ethical crisis. His unit represents lies in an egotistical desire to beat the film is comprised ofhundreds ofa highly effective, elite branch ofthe the system, to secure a personal scenes and runs almost three hours.Department's narcotics division. renewal no matter what the cost. As After the Capra film the viewer feels"...nobody cares ab\>Ut but my Danny's life crumbles around him, euphoric and hopeful; at the conclu­partners," he tells an investigating the consequences ofhis actions sion ofLumet's film the viewer feelsattorney. But in order to perform his shatter the idea that he is doing the desolate and pessimistic. Yet sadly job most efficiently Ciello is com­"right" thing: suicide, exile, and ruin  Finally, this week's quiz. This one Is for Keith Sauter of Morrissey Hall, who asked me all last semester to do a Beatles quiz. Well Keith here it is. ' ' I. George Martin produced most ofthe Beatles' records, but who produced the eight songs they recorded in I96I with Tony Sher~dan? 2. Ofwhat significance is this ­YAA I022 -in Beatles history? 3. This top-I 0 remake ofone oftheir songs was the first record produced by John Lennon and Paul McCartney; It also featured George Harrison on tambourine. Name title and artist on the label. 4: ~hat were the five Beatles records which occup tied the top five positiOns on the April 4, I964, Billboard Hot I 00, in order? 5. Th~ Beatles had 20 number one singles (more than anyone else); mneteen ofthem were listed as "The Beatlcs." Under what name was the other listed? 6. On the stereo version ofthe U.S. album containing what song can be heard two false starts? 7. On the 1968 Brtles' Fan Club Christmas record, this singer  
pelled to engage in unlawful activity. come to those he care for most. enough the character of Danny Ciel­He supplies his junkie informers Violence erupts in sporadic out­lo appeals to the modern imagina­with drugs as a reward for informa­bursts with frightful implications. Af­tion far more than Jefferson Smith. If tion; illegal wiretaps account for ter Ciello batters the skull ofa we have lost our innocence, perhaps numerous busts; and payoffs are an crooked cop, he takes him to a someday we can recover it. In accepted means ofsupplementing waiting car and directs the driver to Prince ofthe City Lumet suggests one's income. But after a harrowing the hospital. "Danny, can you get me that such innocence never reallyepisode in which Ciello brutally as­a deal?" pleads the bloody victim. In­existed in the first place. saults a junkie in an effort to obtain terludes ofviolence in this film are  ~akes a guest appearance. Who is he and what Beatles song does he smg? 8. What song did Lennon and McCartney write for the Rolling Stones? (It has, oddly, never appeared on an American Stones LP.) 9. Which ofthe many remakes they recorded sounds almost exact­ly like the original version? I0. What was the name of the unauthorized "greatest hits" set which led to the release ofThe Beatles 1962-1966 and The Beatles 1967-1970?  

~----------------------~----------------------~----------------------~----~ 
Sports Briefs 
Friday, November 13, 1981 -page 14 
c:: 

lh /be rJbsert't'r ;md /be Assol'iOit•tl Press 
Stanford Hall won the interhall soccer championship 
last night by defeating Zahm Hall, 2-1, on C~ier Field. The teams 
exchanged penalty kicks in the first half, and the score remained tied 
1-1 throughout the second half and four five-minute overtime periods. In the tie-breaking shootout that followed, Mike Flynn tallied the decisive goal as Stanford won the shootout, 6-5, and the title. --The Observer 
Bengal boxers will hold a mandatory meeting Sunday for all boxers interested in participating in this year's program. The meeting is slated for the LaFortune Ballroom at 8 p.m. If you are unable to attend, be sure to contact john Donovan at 277-7533 
The Observer 
The second of two clinics on officiating swim meets is scheduled for next Thursday (Nov. 19)at the Rockne Memorial. The subject will be "Timing, Finish and Stroke Judging and Scoring." In­terested swimming officials should report to Room 218 of the Rock at 7:15 p.m. For more information,-contact Coach Dennis Stark ( 4580) between 4 and 8 p.m.-The Observer 
Women's interhall football reaches the semi­
final round this weekend. Breen-Phillips, which was the only team to 
make it through the regular season undefeated ( 8-0 ), squares off 
with Pasquerilla West (5-3) Sunday at 6:30p.m. P-W had to win its last three game just to make the playoffs. That game will be followed at 7:30p.m. by Pasquerilla East ( 6-2) against Farley (5-3). The games will be played under the lights on Cartier Field. -The Observer 
Men's interhall football also reaches the semi­finals this weekend with Holy Cross taking on the top ranked Big Red ofDillon at 1 p.m. on Cartier. That game will be followed at 2:15p.m. by Off-Campus vs. second-ranked Grace. -The Observer 
Big boat sailors with racing experience on medium to large size boats are needed by the Notre Dame Sailing Club. Call Phil Reynolds at 233-3411 for more details-The Observer 
See MORE BRIEFS, page 17 

NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE 
Sundey'e Games 

Baltimore at Philadelphia 
Buffalo at St. Louis 
Chicago at Green Bay 
Denver at Tampa Bay 
Los Angeles at Cmcinnati 
New Orleans at Minnesota 
New Yori< Jets at New England 
Oakland at Miami Pittsburgh at Atlanta Houston at Kansas City Cleveland at San Franc1sco Dallas at Detroit Washington at New York G1ants Monday's Game San Diego at Seattle 

NBA 

Yesterday'a Reaulta Washington 95, Atlanta 87 Detroit 130, Cleveland 99 Phoenix 95, Indiana 93 San Diego 122. Portland 115 
The Observer will accept classifieds Mon­day through Fnday. 10 a.m. to 4.30 p.m. However. classifieds to appear in the next issue must be received by 3 p.m. the business day pnor to insertion. All classifieds must be prepaid.
Classifieds either in person or through the mail. 
L...--_N_O_T_IC_E_s_ _,ll~..-_F_O_R_RE_N_T_ __, 
USED BOOK SHOP. HOURS WED.. UGLY DUCKLING RENT A CAR. FROM SAT., SUN. 9-7. CASPERSON, 1303 $7.95 A DAY & WEEKEND SPECIALS BUCHANAN RD., NILES. AVAILABLE. CALL 259-8459. 
USED & OUT-PRINT BOOKS bought, NEED third roommate beginning next 
sold, searched. ERASMUS BOOKS. semester CASTLE POINT APTS­Tues-Sunday,12-6.1027E. Wayne(One Iuxurious but affordable, 3 bdr apt, rac­block south of Eddy-Jefferson intersec­quet club with sauna and whirlpool. All for tion) only 120 & elec. Gender irrelevant 
(SMCs--counts as 3-credit lab course WHO ARE THESE PEOPLE? towards advanced degree). Call Mike or A spectacular solo performance by J. 
Larry at 277-3306 

Alexander Gilliam (Soon to appear in RIPLEY'S BELIEVE IT OR NOT) Tired of paying rent? Live for free in your Friday Nov. 13 at 7:15PM in Annenberg own house & choose your own 
Auditorium (in Sn~e Museum) roommates. 3 houses to choose from, private owner 7 flexiable financing. Call The Society for Creative Anachronism is 
288-1224 coming to this campus. Watch for ~Ill 
Urgent: need one or two persons to sublet LECTURE: furnished apt. $90 per month plus utilities, Dr. Steven Taylor 
stereo. full kitchen N.D. Apts. 289-4429 From the Center on Human Policy at Syracuse University Speaking on: THE 
Need to sublet room in house. Rent is COMMUNITY IMPERATIVE: The Right 
$100 a month. Can move in imme-diate­of All Developmentally Disabled Persons 
ly. Call Don at 234-8518 atter6 p.m. to LIVe in the Community. ............................................................... Wednesday Nov. 18 ROOMMATE WANTED-COMPLETELY 
Noon at the Law School, Room 1 01 RURNISHED APT -BAR. KITCHEN. CABLE TV -CALL DAVE AT 283-1169 ­
LOST/FOUNDI j"":;SALE 
LOST: One Grey Suitcoat at the PASQUERILLA WEST-MORRISSEY Half fare coupons on Republic to Florida FORMAL Friday Evening. If you picked 1t 233-6793 up by mistake please call John at x3430 . 
LOST! Pair of gold framed glasses 1n brown case marked Rogers Opt1ca1 If TICKETS found call Mike at 288-3108. 
Lost: A Set of 4 keys, perhaps in the vicinity of the laundry room at Badin Hall. Penn St. ticket wanted please call Donna If found, Please call 7695. at6771 
Lost:back pack, tan and blue. Made by Need tix for Penn State. Calf Stan. 3006 or WyEast. Inc. call Vince x1238 3008. 
LOST: Pearl & gold ring at HC/Badin for­WILL PAY MEGA BUCKS FOR TICKETS mal in Women's room. Highest senttmen~ TO ROLLING STONES CONCERT IN tal value. Please call Sue at 6955. CHICAGO CONTACT MJCK AT 4215 
LOST:Charm Holder with three charms­
FOR SALE: PENN STATE TIX. Call Rich near Alumni Hall -Reward Lori at 
at 8763 or 8765. (41)5771. PENN STATE ticket or tix needed. Call LOST One Gold Bracelet on Saturday John at xt947 anytime--just make it before or during the Georgia Tech game. soon! Most likely lost on Green Field during the Dillon Hall tailga1ter near the backstop GOOD MONEY FOR PENN STATE TIX across from Senior Bar. If found, Please CALL3793 call Michael 233-2969. NEED 4 PENN ST TIX. CALL PERRY AT lost: A silver watch in the first floor 
287-638t AFTER 6 PM. restroom 1n O'Shag Thursday Nov. 6 If you happened to pick 1t up please call 
FOR SALE: PENN STATE TIX. Call Rich x1820 
at 8763 or 8765. 

lost: a large blue econ. and french 
Need 2 Penn State tickets Call Kevin, notebook. also a pair of dark blue ski 
8949 gloves. Reward -call Ron at 6261. 
must self 2 miami ga calf 1574 after 10:30 LOST: WOMENS CLASS RING ON WED. NOV. 5 AROUND THE ACC. TEN­
HELP! I NEED PENN ST Tilt PLEASE NIS COURTS AND SOCCER FJELD. 
CALL BRIAN AT 1777. SILVER, NAVY BLUE STONE,CDC INI­
TIALS ENGRAVED INSIDE. PLEASE. IF 
NEED PENN STATE TIX NOWI2 GA's or YOU'VE FOUND IT COULD YOU CALL 
student tickets CYNDJE AT 2776256. THANX. LOST: 
CALLJOHNATx1947 KEYS ON GREEN AND WHITE C SHAPED RING BETWEEN C2 LOT AND LIBAARY.APPROX. 8 KEYS. PLEASE CALL IRENE 272-4453. 
WANTED 

LOST -One pair of wire-nmmed glassses, in a black case with a clip-on Need ride to Cleveland for Thanksgiving. thing on the side, in the Campus View Calf John at 8450. parking Jot (or thereabouts) Saturday night. J realize you'd love to keep these RIDERS NEEDED FOR highly fashio1 nable, recently chic specs, THANKSGIVING--To Chicago O'Hare, but I'd love to see. Call Tom at 272-8454 if leaving Wed. Nov. 25 at 
you've got em. !2:30pm/returning Mon. Nov. 30 or late 
Sun. Nov. 29. Calf Debbie at 2736. Lost: a Tl55 calculator and 2 notebooks in the AB line of North Dining Hall. If found. WANTED: PENN ST. TIXS. CALL EM­please call Mike at 8657. METT AT 234-6298 
FOUND: GOLD NECKLACE ON SOUTH RIDERS needed to KANSAS CITY for QUAD NITE OF 11/6. CALL 3546 TO Thanksgiving. Leave Tues. Nov. 24. Call IDENTIFY Mike at 3655. 
Need ride to D.C. for Thanksgiving break. Stop. Room-mate needs nde to Mil­waukee. Stop. II you're go1ng either way, stop first and call us. Stop. Then call1158. Stop. Now go. Stop. 
WANTED: Riders to go to Penn State game: have car, need passengers. Calf Kevin at 1894or Henry al1904. 
NEED RIDE TO COLUMBUS. OHIO FOR THANKSGIVING BREAK. CAN LEAVE ANYTIME. WILL SHARE USUAL.'CALL MIKE x8691 
Need ride to Conn/NY area for T -Giving. Share usual. Call Brian at 3378. 
Need ride to Grand Rapids (Aquinas Col­lege) 11/25 to leave atter t 2:30pm. Call Pat at3384. 
GOING TO PHILADELPHIA. N.Y. CITY OR PAST HARRISBURG FOR THANKSGIVING? I NEED A RIDE WILL SHARE USUAL. CALL KATIE AT 4387 
RIDE NEEDED TO ATLANTA FOR THANKSGIVING -CAN LEAVE MON­DAY NIGHT CALL LISA 41-4679. 
to leave at 12:30. Wilf share driving, $$$ . Call 4544 anytime. 
Needed-A RIDE or RIDERS to DETROIT on FRI Nov. 20 a.m.-Please Call Cammy x4034 (SMC) 
NEED RIDE TO PGH AREA FOR PENN STATE GAME. CAN LEAVE THURSDAY. CALL TIM 8195 
NEED A AIDE TO NORTH JERSEY FRIDAY. NOV 20. RIGHT OFF ROUTE 80 CAN LEAVE AT 2:00 
P.M. CALL MIKE AT 1181. WILL SHARE THE USUAL. 
need ride to st. loUis 11/25. will share usual. call jim 1574 atter 10:30 
t'neeo a one way ride to the PENN STATE game. Call Mike at 8657 if you can help. 
Hitt1ng the Promised Land for Thanksgiv­ing? 2 Desperate girlS need a nde to North Jersey -will pay usual. Call Apnl or Corinne any time· 41-5623. 
NEED RIDE TO PENN STATE DESPERATELY FOR GAME. CALL STEVE 8762 OR 8761 
Need ride to PENN STATE GAME. Will share expenses. Please call Dan at 1655. 
NEEDED 1 OR 2 RIDES TO NJ-NY FOR THANKSGIVING. CALL CATHY 4672 
PETER FONDA. alias Chris Beem, needs ride to Henry Fonda's deathbed in Omaha for Thanksgiving break. Call Peter at 3574 
Struggling actor, needs ride to OMAHA for Thanksgiving break. Call Chris at 3574 
NEED RIDE TO PENN ST OR PITTS­BURGH FOR PENN ST. GAME. CALL LEARY 8604 or 8626 
PERSONALS 
TYPiNG! Fast, accurate typing at reasonable rates. Call Lynn Saylor, 233­3423. 
KEN AFRJCANO: WHERE'S PETER GABRIEL WHEN WE NEED HIM? TONY BANKS IS A GOD, BUT HE CAN'T DO IT ALONE. STILL, THE LAMB LIES DOWN 
IN SOUTH BEND.  CHICAGO,  AND  
PHILA. I'LL BE  THERE.  RAEL  
(DINARDO)  
···················  

THE ZAHM COFFEEHOUSE IS OPEN 
EVERY THURSDAY FOR YOUR EXIs­
TENTIAL PLEASURE. OFFERING THE 
FINEST IN LIVE ENTERTAINMENT, 
COFFEE, TEA, HOMEMADE DONUTS, 
FREE POPCORN AND PAT GALLAG­
HER. COME DOWN AND SEE IF OUR PROFESSIONAL CONVER­SATIONALISTS ARE PAID ENOUGH. 9-12 EVERY THURSDAY NIGHT, ZAHIIJ BASEMENT. 
MMMOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOI Saturday! Ylpeeeeeeel QUACK-QUACK 
I NEED A RIDE TO PHILL Y! or there­
abouts. Will gladly share $ & bring 
beverages. Call Mike 13861 
ND/SMC SOPHOMORESIJ We will be having a ·Fnday the 13th" party this Friday at Guiseppes. $3.00 for guys and $2.00 for gals. Party starts at 9:00. Bring your student I.D. 
Kevin, you're so bad, but still taken atter one year. HAPPY ONE!!! The feeling is still strong. "Only you make this change in me, tor it's true, you are my destineee." "HoldOut" "You'd Bener''l LOVE YOU! t t 
-Mama 

MARDI GRAS IS ALIVE AN 
WELLIIIIIIIII 

WANT TO KILL A NmANY LION! I need Penn State tix--call x1947 
ND/SMC SOPHOMORESIJ We will be hav1ng a ·Friday the 13th" party this Friday at Guiseppes. $3.00 for guys and $2.00 for gals. Party starts at 9:00. Bring your student I. D 
SLEEPER starring WOODY AL­LEN....SEE IT FRIDAY AND SATUR­DAY at the K OF C MEMBERS FREE 7,9, and 11 
GROUPSEXII Now that we have your attention, we have an announcement for all you creative. talented, and dedicated(?) people. SCHOLASTIC Production Meeting ­Saturday at 10:00 A.M. Be there or be . 
square. 

l .@ . sf'\ile t 'fa:A_''' ~~ Collee11.ll.!.lA1L 
Happy Birthday Jim DuBoyce and Paul 
Massoud From the ·Party Animals" in 
215 Sarin 

------Keareen-----­GET GENESJZED TO THE FIRST DEEGREEI 
P.O.E.T.S. CLUB FRIDAY 4-7 DILLON PUB 
SENIOR SKATING PARTY Sun Nov15 
6:30-9:00pm $1.75 admission .75 skates 
AT UNITED SKATES OF AMERICA!!! 
Need ride to and from Saginaw area at 
Thanksgiving. Will share usual. Call 
Maryeva at 2915. 

SUNDAY IS VIVIAN'S 18TH BIRTHDAY. 
CALL HER AT 41-5448 AND WISH HER 
A HAPPY DAY!!! 

-TODAY IS THE GODDESS'S BIRTHDAY-HAPPY BIRTHDAY GODDESS-P.S. BEOTH IS STILL A CORKER! NICE SWEATER­
ATTENTION ALL PW RESIDENTS: You may not know this, but your football team begios playoff action this Sunday night against powerhouse B-P. Get out and support your team and watch a great up­set!!! Courtesy of THE BARB SCHUC­HEfiT I PW FAN CLUB 
TRACY, I WANT YOUIIffllll 

Mary the FLAME, YOU DESERVE MUCH, MUCH MORE. 
This week on The Top 20 Time Tunnel: 
The week end1ng November 13, 1965, featuring records by the Beatles, the Rol­ling Stones, the Four Seasons, and 17 others I 
So join Tim Neely Sunday night at 7 on WSND AM 64 and relive your rock ·n· roll past... 
The Phantom's comeback of the week 
-·-·HEY" 

EMIL. everyone human. even YOU. has 
to sleep, but remember. GISM never 
sleeps. GIVE US A BREAK. 
To the ROTC Lacrosse player who lives in Keenan Hall: YOU'RE GORGEOUS! 
tiw (got), the weekend won't be the same without you. hurry hamel for you ... love, moi 
Hey Oscar and Lever-If only you weren't Michael's suitemates! xo Butch 
John. Smile!! Saturday night is almost here. Will a hug hold you over till then? Love, Maureen 
THE WOMEN OF SAINT MARY'S COL­LEGE WELCOME RYAN'S RETURN !II 
HELP MEl I NEED A RIDE TO IN­DIANAPOLIS FOR TWO PEOPLE. CALL 3258. 
FAT GIRLS UNITE! Join the League of Fat 
GIGANTIC PODS FROM OUTER SPACE/ Need Penn State Tix for tood/2 tix--Ga's or Student Call Pod No.1 X1947 
Beware Friday the 13th!! 
Moose of many colors wander the realm 
Who knows what evil lurks in their 
antlers? 
Captain Axe will return to protect us from 
the dread Ver Berkmoes. Bring your own 
Moose. Saturday. You know where. 
The Restless Shade of Moose Control 
TO RICK SOMETHING FAR DIF­FERENT MCBRIEN: HAPPY 13TH BIRTHDAY. YOUNGER SIBLING! JUST TWO MORE YEARS TO DRIVER'S ED ('fHE WORLD MAY CONSIDER ITSELF WARNED)! REGARDS. YOUR LOVING SISTERS, 'ALTOGETHER' AND 'COMPLETELy· 
ERRATUM THE THANKSGIVING PITTSBURGH CLUB BUSES WILL BE LEAVING NOTRE DAME ON WEDNESDAY. NOVEMBER 25 AT 1:00 P.M. FRO'-' THE CCE. THEY WILL RETURN TO NOTRE DAME FROM THE PITTS­BURGH GREYHOUND TERMINAL ON SUNDAY, NOVEMBER29AT 1 P.M. 
9-C Grace is having a birthday party tonight at 9 pm. Come and give a kiss to Danny 0 and the rest of THE SECTION 
ATTENTIONATTENTION -There are still a limited amount of seats ava1lable on the THANKSGIVING PITTSBURGH CLUB BUS. THE BUSSES WILL LEAVE NOTRE DAME ON WED. NOV. 25 AT 
.1,00 FROM THE CCE AND RETURN 
F/IOM PITf'SBURGH ON SUNDAY NOV Z9 AT 1,00 FROM THE GREYGOUND TERMINAL DOWNTOWN. COST IS $45.00 A ROUND TRIP AND$Z9.00 ONE WAY. CALL BRIAN EICHENLAUB AT 1581 BETWEEN 6-8 PM TO MAKE 
RESERVATIONS. 
WELCOME BAC.K MOOSETER VER BERKMOES The gang at The Observer 
anachronism: n. a person or th1ng that IS out of place w1th respect to time. ex: A Saber T oath Tiger on the prowl in Ch1cago is an anachronism. 
What's the Buzz? Well its 1n my Brain, Was it the 7 beers that caused th1s Stram? I lost track. As the company was Great Is that why Bar-hopping IS known as First­Rate? The th1ngs we say, if Who only knew Would put him in gear. If he knew what to do! But ·ce Ia V1e" is my aD­Ditude. If you can't get what you want. Simply be Rude! So Millicent, they say we'll be friends at any Cost tts true. With­out you I would be Lostl 
KATE from CLEVELAND. 
Happy 19th Birthday. 
Love and Kisses. 
Lou, Bob. and Kev1n 
Karen-I Love You-From YLB 
Hey Marc1a -when do I get to meet this feisty freshman lnend and /or hit St. Louis st. ? --Come on ... 

only 26 more days till lorelei's birthday ... 
SUNDAY ... SYMPHONY ...at SMC...at 3 
p.m... ND-SMC STUDENTS FREEl!! 
GET CULTURED THIS SUNDAY AT SMC.. 3 p.m. in O'LAUGHLIN AUDITORIUM 
THE SYMPHONY IS COMING..THE SYMPHONY IS COMINGIJJJ SOUTH BEND SYMPHONY SUNDAY. 3 P.M., IN O'LAUGHL 
Mary Borchers is simply too much. 
Let PAUL SCOFIELD "Lear" you away from your studies ... PAUL SCOFIELD as Lear in Shakespeare's KING LEAR...MONOAY...7 AND 9 ONLY $1 
Call LOVABLE, HUGABLE HEALY at xt250 for a good hug!! (B.P. Loves "Margie") 
NEED RIDE TO U OF ILLINOIS NOV 13,14,15, GAS CALL PATTY 4524 ANYTIME 
My parents need Penn State GA's.. Please call Steve at 8900. 
WENCHES of the ND/SMC community: COACH IS HERE!!! That wild-eyed suave Italian from PNSY is looking to overhaul a few HEATED boilers on this, his firsttrip to this pinnacle of party, NO. He can do AMAZING things with a wrench and pry bar so be sure to take advantage of this once in a lifetime opportunity!! Call him at 4385 to make an appointment with th1s MASTER CRAFTSMAN. Satisfaction GUARENTEED! 
GO PW BEAT BP!!JJI COME WATCH THERESA (ALL AMERICAN) ROSS WALK ALL OVER THOSE ANIMALS. BE THERE SUNDAY-! 
TO JANE THE PW QB-SUNDAY DESSERT LADY (C-LINE) FROM YOUR FAITHFUL RUNNER GOOD LUCK SUN­DAYROMPBP. 
THE MOTOWN SOUND" DILLON PUB FRIO. 10-2 GIRLS FREE!! 
HAPPY HOUR--IRISH COUNTRY 
FRIDAY4-7 
Nina-Rose, You're an awesome sister 
Hope your 21st b'day tomorrow 1s the 
greatest! Love, NAN II 
PAUL SCOFIELD as KING LEAR-­
Engineenng Auditorium--Monday. Nov. 
16, at 7 and 10 p.m.--only $11 
315 KEENAN IS FULL OF FLAWS! 
Shirley 

The Finest In Office Managerial Help And A Really Nice Lady Thank You For The Very Nice Things You Do Just For Us Every Other Wednesday Love Poor Observer Workers 
What t1me of life do all women dread? The 
answer is simple --Meno-poz! 
18WHAT? 18WHO? 18WHERE? 18WHEN? 12 HOCKEY BAND ACC SATURDAY NIGHT 

Just when you thought 1t was safe to go back to the ACC. HOCKEY BAND! 
WIPEOUT" MSU With NO HOCKEY BAND 

Are there really t ,8t 2 members in Hock­ey Band? 
Yes. but a "WIPEOUT" claimed many of them. 
Sports Special -IAIAW Volleyball Tournaments Friday, November 13, 1981 -page 15 
Irish play tourney matclies at V alpo 
nowski will be joined by juniorByJANE HEALEY jackk Pagley in the defensive 
Sports Writer 
responsibilities. Dages and sopho­more Maureen Morin will be settingThe Notre Dame women's vol­
the ball to freshmen Robin Israel and leyball team will be at Valparaiso 
Mary jo Hensler in the front row. University this weekend participat­
Notre Dame ended the regularing in the Indiana state volleyball 
season with a 17-22 record. The tournament. Notre Dame is one of 
team has showed great improve­ten teams included in the Indiana As­
ment over the previous year when sociation for Intercollegiate Ath­
its record was 3-19. Coach Van letics for Women ( IAIAW). 
Slager thinks the difference is the in­The association is divided into 
crease in physical strength which three divisions all holding its tourna­
has produced more powerful spikes ments today and Saturday. Division 
and serves. Another major improve­Two schools, including Notre Dame, 
ment this past year has been the meet in Valparaiso while the other 
higher level ofplay. "When you have two divisions find themselves else­
a higher level of skill -I mean six where in the state. 
players with above average abilitks The Irish begin play in the double 
-teamwork is going to just flow," elimination tournament at 1 p.m. 
says co-captain Pagley: "Teamwork today. The opponent will be the 
is what wins games."winner of the St. Francis of Fort 
The Irish hope to use this team­Wayne and Indiana State at 
work and their C>ther improvementsEvansville match. If the Irish con­
to win the Indiana State volleyballtinue to win, they w.ill play in the 
tournament. From there they hope The Notre Dame volleyball team will be in action beginningchampionships Saturday at 5 p.m. 
to go on to regionals in Illinois and today in the /AlAW Division II state championship tournament.


Spike!

Notre Dame has set three goals at 
then, eventually to the finals in (photo by Cheryl Ertelt) ..C. the stan of the weekend. It wants to 
Colorado over Christmas. be able to pass at a 70 percent ac­

curacy level. The Irish also wish to serve with a 100 percent accuracy. The last goal is to place in the top five teams. Coach Sandy Van Slager says ofthe goals: "Our first two goals concern concentration and skills. Our third goal is sort of com­prehensive because without the first two goals, the skills, we could never pl.ace so high." 
Captain Kathleen Dages artic­ulates the teams vkws on the goals: "They may seem to be high expecta­tions, but we know we have the talent to achieve them. It's just going to take a lot ofhard work." 
That hard work was evident all 
during practice this past week. 
Preparing for this tournament, and 
with the goals in sight, Van Slager has 
drilled the team at least an hour each 
day. She has also had intra-squad 
scrimmages to quicken the teams 
reactions to the ball. "Our practices 
have bet·n very solid and consis· 
tent," Van Slager observes. "I've 
noticed a lot of effort being 
demonstrated. I really think the girls 
want (to win) this tournament." 
The Irish will be using a new 
lineup this weekend. The recent ad­.dition ofDages, who is coming off an in t jury, has bumped Josie Mater­nowski from a setting position to that of a back row player. Mater­

*Sou-rH 
Sef..l'b 
•M~RIOr-1 


@SMc 
f) t>w' s10" m 

~~0€J[Ii)GJ 
Division mtourney includes St. Mary's 
By MARY SIEGER season. Another highlight was, Sports Writer according to Murphy, "Being vic­torious in our rivalry against Notre 
This weekend, the Saint Mary's Dame." 
volleyball team travels to Marion The team's 12-13 record does not 
College to participate in the Divi­reflect the potential of this year's 
sion Ill state volleyball tournament. team. "Although last year's team was 
Despite their 12-13 record the 13-1 going into the tournament," 
Belles are optimistic about their par­cites Murphy, "this year's is the 
ticipation in the tournament. strongest team we've had." . 
The Belles arc involved in an Both Murphy and assistant coac~ 
eight-team, double elimination Dan Anders ton believe that the team 
tournament. In their first round, the has the potential to do very well in 
team will play Earlham College. this tournament. Murphy believes 
Coach Erin Murphy believes that it is that the success of the team this 
hard to predict how her team will do weekend will rely upon its attitude. 
against Earlham since, "We've never "If we can think competitively and 
had the opportunity to play Earlham positively and be mentally tough, 
nor have we ever seen them play." then there should be no stopping 
One ofthe most outstanding high­us," says Murphy. lights of the season was that Mary The coaches and the players arc Beth Hosinski was named to the All­looking forward to the tournament State volleyball team. She is one of because it is the highlight of the only six players in the state who was season. The team has worked very 
given this honor. hard for this tournament. "We arc Other highlights included the looking forward to showing Belles taking second place in their everyone how good we really arc,'~ !~vitational tournament earlier this comments Murphy. 

Theresa Walters u•i/1/ead the Saint Mm:v's volleyball team into toumament action this weekend. (photo by Cheryl Ertelt) 

results in Monday's Observer. (photo by Linda Shanahan) ,­

The Observer-Sports Friday, November 13, 1981 -page 16 
Finally, the-FINAL RESULTS!! 
11111111110 1980

United Way at N.D. Participation Chart 
1981

Ratio is number of students contributing $2.00 or more divided by total number of students 



continuedfrom page 20 
virus that hospitalized him earlier 
this week. Kiel practiced yesterday 
(in South Bend) for the first time this 
week. Offensive coordinator Tom 
Lichtenberg told The Observer last 
night that Kiel looked good yester­
day. "Blair will start Saturday," Lich­
tenberg confirmed. "How long he 
plays depends on his strength and 
how well he holds up." 
Meanwhile, Hatfield is saying a lot 
of the same things about his team 
that Faust has said of the Irish. 
"We're a tremendously improved 
ball club the past few weeks. We've 
had a lot of injury problems and 
position switches that have held us 
back, and on defense people moved 
the ball on us early in the season. But 
we're playing tougher now. We 
haven't had a touchdown scored on 
us in seven quarters. 
Like Notre Dame, the Falcons 
have utilized .several different start­
• p 1 

~ctor x·PLAy FOR ALL AMERICA.NS • 





blends (Nov. 110NIG~1T!m 
in the Annenberg Auditoriumart1st1c (Snite Museum) 
J. Alexander Gilliam, a New Jersey native who has a love for the stage and believes there is a positive way to reduce racism, has taken this mixture, bottled it and is pouring it all over the country. 
talent, 
He's a combination actor -and social psychologist, using the stage as hiS couch and the audience as his patients. The blend is aimed at producin,g good enter­tainment and community understanding. 
social 
In the production. Gilliam portrays 10 different peo­ple with varying attitudes on race and race relations. He says that although the charad~r;> in the play are funny, the subject matter is very sefiotls. 
People?

cotnment Are These 


Badil 

Breen-Phillips!!!!!!!!!!!!1.,...... 
Carroll 



~v-.p........~~~ Dillon!!!!!!!!!!!~~-.~ 

Fisher 
Ana 

Grace Holy Crosslllllllllll.....-111 


Lyons ....._...!llllll.,li Morrissey ,.......lfU.I.A¥-Ul.U.fiJUUf-~~lf-U-A~...~ 
P•g~ ........~....~~ Pasquerilla E. ................ Pasquerilla w.........~~ 

St Edn'ds 
Sori1 



Walsh!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!~ latin~~~~~~~ 
ers at quarteraback. They tried soph­omorejim Miller, a solid passer, and then senior Ed Antoine, a scrambler, but neither proved successful. Soph­omore Marty Louthan has bailed Air Force out lately. He played some quarterback last year and was moved to receiver in the spring, but he was switched back under center in mid-season. 
Louthan saw his first game action this year in the team's win over Oregon, and Air Force is 2-0 with him at the helm. Louthan poses the dual threat to the defense because he canboth throw and run very well. 
Air Force's backfield troubles go beyond the quarterback spot, though. They lost sophomore ful­lback Ted Sundquist, the incumbent after an outstanding rookie cam­paign, and veteran tailback senior George James to injuries at the beginning of the season. Both were thought to be out for the year; however, athletic sources indicated yesterday the possibility that one or 
• • • Air Force 
both will play on Saturday for the Falcons' final home game. 
Preparations for Notrt: Dame have been tough. Hatfield can't point to one specific thing that concerns him most. "They're another typically all­around talented Notre Dame team," Hatfield says. "Some inconsistencies on o.ffense hurt them early because everybody they played was good, but they seemed to have gelled, and the defense has played solidly all year. They kept Notre Dame in every ballgame. They've just played one of the toughest schedules they've ever had." 
And unlike some of Notre Dame's "lesser" opponents, Air Force is hap­py to be of the Irish schedule. 
"I enjoy the series with Notre Dame," admits Hatfield. "I think it's good for our program. We recruit nationwide and it gives us graat ex­posure to play a national team like Notre Dame." 
"We can't play top teams week in and week out," he continued, "because we don't get those kind of athletes -we don't have pro foot­ball staring us down the line. But 
· once in a while, it's a good ex­pericence for the kids to go up against that kind ofcompetition." 
Air Force gave Notre Dame plenty ofcompetition in their last meeting, but Hatfield feels there's no guaran­tee ofa repeat performance this time around. "For some reason, Notre Dame didn't play well then -they just weren't as sharp and we were able to stay with them. , 
"But that was last year's game and last year's team. It's a really different team this year. They've lost early and they know they're not going to win a national championship, but they're playing with a different kind of in­tensity and different goals." 
IRISH ITEMS: After an early morn­ing workout in the stadium, the Irish will catch a flight this afternoon for Colorado Springs...The game will be a homecoming of sorts for Notre Dame· offensive line coach Tom Backhus, who was an assistant at Air Force from 1978-80... Also, the con­test will mark the return home for several Irish gridders who hail from Colorado, includingjohn Putzstuck, Steve Keane, Mike Gann, Kevin Sher­man, Steve Hillburgh and joe Vatuel­
, lo...Kickoff is slated for I p.m. MST, which is 3 p.m. in South Bend. 

0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90100% 0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 100%
-
~ 
The Observer -Sports Friday, November 13, 1981 page 17 
• • • Hoops 
• More Briefs 
continuedfrom page 20 
in the backcourt. A contrast in 
styles, Duff is a playmaker with 
exceptional quickness, while 
Rowan's shooting ability and 6-S 
frame make him a threat from 
outside. 
The game also marks the debut for two assistant coaches, Jim Baron and John Shumate. Baron comes lO Notre Dame from St. 
Bonaventure's, while Shumate 
returns to his alma mater after an 
dght-ycar stint in the NBA. 
Marathon Oil is sponsoring the 
games, which get underway with 
the women at 7 p.m., and con­
tinue with the men's team at H:30 
p.m. The company will present free photos of Phdps' team to 
continuedfrompage 14 
The SMC Turkey Trotis scheduled for the Monday before Thanksgiving (Nov. 23) at 4 p.m. The three-mile run is open to everyone in the Saint Mary's community. First, second and third place prizes will be presented in each of these three categories: stu­dents, male staff/taculty and female staff/faculty. Interested runners must register by bringing the $1 entry fee to the Angela Athletic Facility before next Friday (Nov. 20). For more information, contact Mr. Dillon at 4182(SMC).-The Observer 
All SkiierS going on the Winter Park, Colo. trip in january must have their money in by Tuesday. Money should be paid to Barry Tharp ( 1 S 70), Sue Hull ( 1674) or Nancy Sheft ( 4996 SMC). ­
The Observer 

In the Detroit Pist9ns' 130-99 victory over Cleveland last night, 75 of Detroit's points were tallied by players familiar to Indiana college basketball fans. Former Hoosiers Isiah Thomas and Kent Benson tallied 31 and 22 points, respectively, and former Notre Dame star Kelly Tripucka added 21. Not to be outdone, former Irish standout Bill Laimbeer aided the Cavaliers' cause by scoring one point. -AP 
Mary D. and Diggerwill unveil their 19H1-82 basket­ball squads Sunday at the ACC in the annual intrasquad games. DiS­tanislao's women will play at 7 p.m., and Phelps' men will play immediately following. Student tickets arc SO cents and others arc $1 and available at the ACC's Gate l 0 box office. Proceeds go to the Neighborhood Study Help Program and the Special Olympics. ­
The Observer 

everyone who attends. Tickets arc available at Gate 10 of the ACC, and at all Marathon 
u u 
Oil dealers. 
• • • Backs U 
continuedfrom page 20 
day for Carter. 
"I felt good last week against Alabama," Carter said at the time. "But today I felt great. There was a little letdown after Alabama, but we couldn't look past Air Force. They were ready and played us tough." 
More than likely, the Falcons will play the Irish tough again tomorrow, and James will play a major role. Al­ready this season, he has gained 113 yards in a game. He did it on 28 carries against Boston College, and he's capable of doing it again at any time. 
"I really like to run with the foot­hall," he says. "I think that's what I do best." 
But, like Carter, james is a pretty 
fair pass catcher as well. 
"I like pass receiving because it lets me get my hands on the ball and then I can turn up field and run." Which is just what he does. He's the Falcons' third-leading pass receiver, averaging 12.3 yards per catch. That's more than double Carter's 5.6 yards-per-catch average. 
"My personal goals this year were to finish the season with more yards rushing than I've had in a season, and to finish first in the WAC in kickoff-return yardage," james says. Those goals were not at all out of the ques­tion. He has already broken his career mark for rushing in a season, and is within striking range of the WAC kick-returning lead. 
At first glance, the two seem to be totally opposite. But Phil Carter and George james arc remarkably similar in their value to his particular team. Indications are that they'll have to prove their worth again if their team is to succeed tomorrow. 

CINEMA CITY •s a complete serv1ce tor Cinema collectors dealing wnh ong1nal mov•e posters photos and related collect· ables Or1gtnal mohOn p•clure graphiCS are 
b,~g~~~P~~~o:~~~~: ~~~o~gu~~~~~h~e~~~ 
brance of a memorable 111m and because of lhetr hmtled number may become l1ne 
•nvestmenl p•eces Many tlems w1th the1r dtst•nct•ve art'Nork make anracllve wall decorations that are sure to be the toptc o• d1scusston amonq m0111e to11ers 
All matenal IS oug1nat ~ we deal w11h no cop1es. repnnls or anV1htng ol a bogus nature Our latest catalogue lists thousands ol tlems !hal tnclude posters photos (o11er 30 000 1n slack 1 lobby cards pressbooks and other authentiC 111m memorab11ta II you re lOOking lor a pan1cutar 11em that 1s not .n our catalogue we wtll try to locate 11 lor you To rec.e111e our Idlest catalogue sendS I 00 I refundable wtlh ltrst order) to 
u




iller times::~~ Ufe
u 


u u u 
u 

''MLtst be
u 

a .P~QShlllan.''
u 
/
u u u u u u 
u 
u 
u 
u 
u u 
u 
u 


n 

[]' 
u 
u 
u 
u 
u ..... 
u 
u 
u u u 
[1. 
u u u u 
u 
u 
u 
u 
u 
n 
f ~~· ~:\ ·( 1111" 

r'......................................~.,~ 
Sports Special -ND vs. A~ Force Friday, November 13, 1981 -page 18 




























Fighting Irish( 4-4) vs. Falcons (3-5) The Lineups

The Game 
AIR FORCE OFFENSE 
GAME: Notre Dame (4-4) v. Air Force (3-5) 
NOTRE DAME OFFENSE POS NO PLAYER HT WT CL

SITE: Falcon Stadium (capacity 46,668) 
POS NO PLAYER HT WT CL 
QB 11 Marty Louthan 6·1 180 So. TIME: 1.00 p.m. MST (3:00p.m. in South Bend) QB 5 Blair Klel 6·1 195 So. 7 Ed Antoine 6-0 178 Sr.
14 Tim Koegel 6-4 205 Sr. LH 35 C. I. Dixon 5-11 180 So.
DATE: Saturday, November 14, 1981 TB 22 Phil Carter 5-10 200 Jr. 
32 Usher Barnum 5-6 155 Fr.
TV-RADIO: Metrosports Replay Network 32 Chns Smith 6-2 220 Fr. 
FB 30 John Kershner 5-10 185 So.
H K 1 d G C FB 33 John Sweeney 6-2 215 Jr. 
arry a as an eorge onnor 39 Larry Moriarty 6-2 220 Jr. 37 Charlie Heath 6-1 209 So. 9 a.m. Sunday-WNDU-TV WB 48 John Mosley 6-1 195 So. 
WR 82 Mike Kirby 5·11 175 So. 92 Tom Coleman 5-11 180 Fr.
Notre Dame-Mutual Radio Network 28 Greg Bell 6-0 205 So. 
RH 22 Karl Grant 5·9 170 Fr.
Tony Roberts and AI Wester SE 24 Joe Howard 5·9 165 Fr. 
42 Mike Hoolihan 5-1 0 185 Fr.
WNDU-AM 1500 84 Tim Tripp 6-3 205 Sr. 
RT 61 S. Wachenheim 6-3 220 So.
WNDU-TV Channel RT 71 Phil Pozderac 6-9 270 Sr. 
60 Dave Uzzell 6-2 210 Jr. RG 79 Dave Schreck 6-4 240 Jr. 
16 52 John Putzstuck 6-5 262 Jr. 
Tom Dennin and Jeff Jeffers RG 74 Mike Shiner 6-8 270 Jr. 
75 Tony Rino 6-3 220 Sr.
ESPN delayed broadcast 75 Larry Kissner 6-4 255 Sr. 
55 Richard Smith 6-4 210 Jr.
SERIES: Irish lead series 10-0 c 57 Mark Fischer 6-4 245 Jr. c 
78 Vic Bortka 6-1 220 So.TICKETS: Game is sold .out 68 Barry Young 6-5 245 So. LG 64 AI Wiley 6-0 243 Sr. 
l--------------~-------,:,.....-------....l.--~------------1 LG 7976 Neil Maune Randy Ellis 6-4 255 So. 6-3
6-5 250 Jr. 69 Kelly Heffernan 215 So. L T 76 John Weigan 6-2 220 So. 72 Craig Egan 6-2 240 Jr.
.Stl.cs LT ~ ~~~YT~~~~~ ~~ :~ ~~: 
TE 89 Fred Clnclolo 6-3 220 Sr. · 95 Pete Buchanan 6-3 230 Jr. 
TE 85 Tony Hunter 6-5 220 Jr. 
93 Jimmy Adams 6-3 200 So
The Statl 
P 5 Blair Klel 6-1 195 So. P 39 Jeff Kubiak 6-1 200 So. 10 Brian Whelan 6-0 185 Sr. 
1 Carlos Mateos 5-6 153 Fr.
TEAM STATISTICS NO OPP RUSHING G NO YDS AVG TO LG DEFENSE TMTL-YDS PBU FR BK 
PK 3 HarryOiiver 5·11 185 Sr. PK 7 Ron Rice 6-3 201 So. 1 Carlos Mateos 5-6 153 Fr.
2 1 o 4 Mike Johnston 5-11 185 Jr. KO 7 Ron Rice 6-3 201 So.
TOTAL OFFENSE YARDS 2751 2180 Carter 7 106 480 4.8 3 30 Crable 123 10-34 
2 o o KO 8 MlkeJohnston 5-11 185 Jr. 1 Carlos Mateos 5-6 153 Fr.
Total Plays 556 522 Bell 8 74 462 6.2 3 41 Zavagnin 73 5-21 
Yards per Play 4.9 4.2 Smith 6 40 141 3.5 1 22 Griffith 44 7-24 5 3 o 40 Gary Purk 6-0 185 So. 
PR 82 Mike KirbyYards per Game 343.9 272.5 Sweeney 7 28 130 4.6 0 12 Clasby 42 3-11 2 o o PR 23 Dave Duerson 92 Tom Coleman
PENALTIES-YARDS 43-412 37-376 Brooks 6 21 112 5.3 0 22 Toran 39 2-12 3 0 o 30 Stacey Toran 
KR 92 Tom ColemanFUMBLES-LOST 13-4 18-6 Monarty 8 15 72 4.8 0 18 Duerson 34 2-5 5 0 o KR 28 GregBell 22 Karl Grant 
Yards Returned 0 0 Mosley 6 15 69 4.6 1 20 Marshall 31 8-36 o o o 24 Joe Howard TOTAL FIRST DOWNS 136 108 Hunter 8 27 68 2.5 1 13 Krimm 27 0-0 5 0 0 By Rushing 77 63 Adell 6 10 24 2.4 0 8 Rudzinski 27 3-17 0 1 0 
NOTRE DAME DEFENSE AIR FORCE DEFENSE LE 38 John Autry 6-2 230 So. LE 87 Konda Sullivan 6-3 210 Jr.
By Passing 50 34 Swoboda 2 4 21 5.2 0 12 Autry 26 3-29 2 0 0 By Penalty 9 11 Morris 1 3 20 6.7 0 10 Naylor 22 0-0 0 0 0 36 Tony Belden 6-2 230 Sr. 96 Chris Funk 6-4 220 Fr. 
LT n Tim Marshall 6-4 250 So. L T 71 T. Schluckebler 6-3 245 Sr.
THIRD DOWNS-CONV 15-34 127-32 Hilbert 2 2 12 6.0 0 8 Bone 21 0-0 1 0 0 Percentage .296 .252 Howard 7 2 10 5.0 1 13 Belden 19 4-28 0 0 0 
94 Tom Bock 6-4 255 Sr. 68 Fred Buttrell 6-3 215 Fr. RT 91 Bob Clasby 6-5 260 Jr. RT 88 Bob Avila 6-1 215 So.
POSSESSION TIME 255:51 224:09 Kiel 8 24 7 0.3 1 11 Johnson 18 0-0 2 1 0 92 Joe Gramke 6-4 245 Sr. 70 Doug Thomas 6-2 240 Fr.
Minutes per Game 31:59 28:01 Williamson 3 1 6 6.0 0 6 Gramke 17 2-13 1 0 0 RE 56 Kevin Griffith 6-3 240 Sr. RE 86 Chris Reyman 6-1 206 Sr.
2 0 0 Brown 0-0 0 88 Jeff Lueken 6·5 245 Jr. 85 George Manley 6-2 195 So.
RECEIVING G NO YDS AVG TO LG Grooms 1 0.0 0 11 1 0 
Koegel 8 14 -66 -4.7 0 7 Bock 10 0-0 0 0 0 
SLB 51 Joe Rudzinski 6-3 225 Jr. SLB 56 Mike France 6-0 204 Sr.
Larkin 8 1-15 0 0 0

Hunter 8 21 303 14.4 35 
57 Jeff Rouser 5-11 197 So Masztak 6 13 163 12.5 33 37 Rick Naylor 6-3 220 So.
NOTRE DAME 8 3871568 4.1 11 41 Rogge man 5 1-2 0 0 0 MLB 43 Bob Crable 6·3 225 Sr.· LB 90 Jim Dahlman 6-3 210 Sr.
OPPONENTS 8 3401187 3.5 6 33 Shields 5 0-0 0 0 0
Carter 7 9 50 5.6 0 14 
48 Rick Oleszczuk 6-1 200 So.
49 Jack Shields 6-2 220 Jr.
Moriarty 5 0-0 0 0 0

Howard 7 7 269 38.4 3 96 
WLB 46 Mark Zavagnln 6·2 225 Jr. WLB 58 Tom Sanbury 6-0 195 So. 
Sweeney 7 6 96 16.0 0 38 PUNT RET NO YDS AVG TO LG Rice 5 0-0 0 0 0 49 Carl Dieudonne 6-1 195 So.
42 Mike Larkin 6-1 210 Fr.
Cichy 4 0-0 1 0 0

Bell 8 5 58 11.6 0 13 
WCB 30 Stacey Toran 6-4 195 So. LCB 24 Doug Dunbar 6.0 176 Sr.
Liebenstein 0 0

Condeni 3 4 49 12.2 1 21 Duerson 25 166 6.6 0 19 3 0-0 0 
41 Mike Masini 6-2 200 Sr. 25 Neal McElhannon 6-2 180 Fr. 
Mosley 6 4 39 9.7 1 14 Krimm 1 5 5.0 0 5 Carter 3 1-12 0 0 0 SCB 19 John Krlmm 6·2 190 Sr. RCB 23 David Carraway 5-11 176 Sr. 
Boushka 5 3 52 17.3 0 25 Sp1elmaker 1 4 4.0 0 4 Spielmaker 2 0-0 0 0 0 9 Chris Brown 6-1 185 So. 6 Cleve McCray 5-10 188 Jr.
Adell 2 0-0 0 0 0

Moriarty 8 3 30 10.0 2 20 
ss 23 Dave Duerson 6-3 200 6-3 ss 17 JohhnyJackson 6-4 184 Sr. 
Brooks 6 3 20 6.7 0 11 NOTRE DAME 2.7 175 6.5 0 19 Gann 2 0-0 0 0 0 40 Steve Cichy 6-2 210 Sr~ 16 Craig Zolninger 5-10 170 So. 
Adell 6 2 12 6.0 0 10 OPPONENTS 29 134 4.6 0 15 Schiro 1 0-0 0 0 1 
FS 26 Rod Bone 5-2 200 Jr. ROV 45 Kevin Ewing 5·11 180 Jr.
Masini 1 0-0 0 0 0

Buchanan 7 2 10 5.0 0 6 
M. Golic 1 0-0 0 0 0 27 Joe ,Johnson 6-2 190 Fr. 9 Tod Wolters 6-0 188 Sr. 
Mishler 7 1 25 25.0 0 25 
Murphy

Tripp 3 1 10 10.0 1 10 KICKOFF RET NO YDS AVG TO LG 1 0-0 0 0 0 
Kiernan 1 1-2 0

Kiel 8 -3 -3.0 0 -3 
0Ot------------------------------1
Mosley 1 0-0 0 0 0 NOTRE DAME 8 85 1183 13.9 10 96 Bell 6 122 20.3 0 26 Notre Dame (4-4) Air Force (3·5) OPPONENTS 8 84 993 11.8 6 71 Duerson 2 53 26.5 0 36 
Howard 6 162 27.0 0 56 
NOTRE DAME 634 53-261 32 6 

Krimm 2 4 2.0 0 3 OPPONENTS 735 33-167 21 4 Sept. 12 beat LSU, 27-9 Sept. 12 lost to Brigham Young,45-21 Sept. 191ost to Michigan. 25-7 Sept. 191ost to WYOMING, 17-10
INTRET NO YDS AVG TO LG PASSING CO
NOTRE DAME 16 341 21.3 0 56 G NO PCT INT YDS TO Sept. 261ost to Purdue, 15-14 Sept 261ost to New Mexico 27-10 
Crable 1 33 33.0 0 33 OPPONENTS 26 509 19.6 0 51 Oct. 3 beat MICHIGAN ST., 20-7 Oct. 3beat COLORADO ST·. 28-14 27 0 27 8 39 6 5
Zavagnin 2 13.5 Kiel 85 .459 597 Oct. 10 lost to FLORIDA ST., 19-13 Oct. 10 lost to Navy, 30-13 
Knmm 2 26 13.0 0 15 Koegel 8 78 44 .564 3 585 5 
Oct. 241ostto USC. 14-7 Oct. 171ostto TULANE, 31-13 
Toran 2 3 1.5 0 3 PUNTING G NO YDS AVG LG Condeni 3 1 1 1.000 0 4 0 Brown 0 0.0 0 0 Hunter 8 1 0 .000 1 0 0 Oct. 31 beat NAVY. 38-0 Oct. 24 beat Oregon, 20-10 
Duerson 0 0.0 0 0 Kiel 8 51 2044 40.9 55 Grooms 2 3 0 .000 0 0 0 Nov. 7 beat G~ORGIA TECH, 35-3 Oct. 31 beat ARMY. 7-3 Johnson 0 0.0 0 0 Whelan 2 1 44 44.0 44 Mosley 6 1 1 1000 0 -3 0 
Nov. 14 at Air Force Nov. 14 NOTRE DAME Nov. 21 at Penn State Nov. 21 at Nevada-Las Vegas 
NOTRE DAME 9 89 9 9 0 33 NOTRE DAME 8 52 2088 40.2 55 NO 8169 85 .503 101183 10 OPPONENTS 10 54 5.4 0 29 OPPONENTS 8 62 2498 40.3 60 OPP 8 182 84 .462 10 993 6 Nov. 28 at Miami (Fla.) Nov. 28 at San Diego State 
•

Observer staffers,'Jimmy TheGreek'pick wmners 
Each week, The Observer sports staff matches wits with Jimmy the 
Greek's published line. Records listed are results against the spread. Home teams are in CAPITAL LETTERS. 








CHRIS NEEDLES 
·­
MIKEOLENIK SKIP DESJARDIN BILL MARQUARD GARY GRASSEY KELLY SULLIVAN MICHAEL ORTMAN MARK HANNUKSELA 
Sports Writer Sports Writer Assoc. Sports Editor Sports Writer Sports Wnter Sports Writer Sports Editor Sports Writer 
69-53-3.566 68-54-3 .557 66-56-3, ~541 65-57-3 .533 62-60-3.508 61-61-3.500 59-63-3 .484 56-66-3 .459 
Michigan over PURDUE by 12 Wolverines Boilers Wolverines Wolverines Wolverines Boilers Wolvennes Boilers 
CLEMSON over Maryland by 13 Tigers Tigers Tigers Tigers Tigers Tigers Terps Tigers 
PENN STATE over Alabama by 4 Lions Lions Lions Lions Lions Lions Tide Lions 
GEORGIA over Auburn by 13 Dawgs Dawgs Dawgs Dawgs Dawgs Dawgs Dawgs Dawgs 
WISCONSIN over Iowa by 1 Badgers Hawks Hawks Badgers Badgers Badgers Badgers Badgers 
Navy over GEORGIA TECH by 9 Jackets Middies Middies Middies Middies Middies Middies Middies 
OHIO STATE over Northwestern by 42 Buckeyes Cats Buckeyes Buckeyes Buckeyes Cats Buckeyes Buckeyes 
MICHIGAN STATE over Minnesota by 3 Gophers Gophers Gophers Gophers , Gophers Gophers Gophers Spartans 
PITTSBURGH over Army by 36 Panthers Panthers Panthers Panthers Panthers Knights Panthers Panthers 
NEBRASKA over Iowa State by 18 Huskers Huskers Huskers Huskers Cyclones Cyclones Huskers Huskers 
Southern Cal over WASHINGTON by 10 Huskies Trojans TroJans Huskies TroJans TroJans Husk1es TroJanS 
ILLINOIS over Indiana by 13 lllirii lllini lllini lllini Hoosiers lllini lllini lllini 
UCLA over Arizona State by 1 Sun Devils Bruins Bruins Sun Devils Bruins Bruins Bruins Bruins 
Oklahoma over MISSOURI by 7 Tigers Sooners Sooners Sooners Tigers Sooners Tigers Tigers 
MIAMI (FLA.) over VIrginia Tech by 14 Hurricanes Hurricanes Hurricanes Hurricanes Hurricanes Hurricanes Hurricanes Hurricanes 
North Carolina over VIRGINIA by 19 Heels Heels Heels Heels Heels Heels Heels Heels 
Notre Dame over AIR FORCE by 23 Irish Irish Irish Irish Irish Irish Irish Irish 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
-----------------, 
Friday, November 13, 1981 -page 19




Weekend 
,­

The-Observer=-==-=~=== 
Molarity 


Doonesbury 
rr1@5 GREATa: YOIJ 70 ():)11& cw fXX(N fOR aJR. CAL/.-IN SHOll/, Pf?ESI[)f.NT K/N/3! \ 
Simon 
MR. PRE51DENT! MR. ?RE~IDfNT! 
I'M NOT;\C.Alfi!SICHM.J4£S 
I 
JV~T fXJ~'r ~.,JA/IlTTil6Et: 


MITAT/ILL, MAIX. I IA/!U, I KN01A1 110/1/ IMPOICTJWT 7JW6fiTlf/E 
rrts 70 kEEP ?He M/6HTPI5CIJ5V OIANNEIS OPEN 7lJ 7}{£ /JN/VfJ(S{Ty STlJIJeiTSI tullllT5CfR. Mm/1. YOU 7lJPIC? I Pfle!iEJJltl) 70· 
/ QilY. 

The Daily Crossword 
. All Rights Reserved 


Michael Molinelli 

. 
Garry Trudeau 
Gt?MT.'ro 6(}(}{)CV!?NINS/ Be HAPPY 70N/6HT: "5/KX/16 70.. UP 7lJ All/MNI." 
\ I 

ACROSS 32 Eldritch 61 Jewelry 25 Fashion 1 Deity 33 Bireme's of a sort name 4 Sailing equipment 65 Use an oven 26 Urges 
boat 35 Shlpshaped 67 Wyatt's 28 "Neither 
9 LSD clock family rain-... " 13 Crewman 37 Against 68 Trumpeter's 30 Incompetent 14 Bayof 38 Talismans, adjunct 31 Hawkshaw, 
Florida In away 69 Skating for short 15 Hawk's 44 Throw one's jump 34 No longer 
opposite hat in the 70 Winter working: 16 Nastase ring hazard abbr. 17 Beginning 45 Numerical 71 Czech 36 Sunshine 18 Foreboding prefix river state: abbr. 
19 Amulet 46 Wing 72 Crimson and 38 Monks 
22 Time per-47 Trembling claret 39 Yorkshire iods: abbr. 50 Catchall 73 Actress river 23 Native of: abbr. Duncan 40 Removed 
suff. 52 Select 74 Land: abbr. from con· 24 Fast 56 In a chair tainers 27 Wee 58 Blackbird DOWN 41 Exist 29 Monotonous 60 Writer 1 Plentiful 42 Certain 
routine Deighton 2 Idle acid 3 Feat 43 Kind of Thursday's Solution 4 WriterRex lace 5 Former 48 Merman and cavalryman Barrymore

6 USSR city 49 Teacher's 7 Oil acronym org. 8 Primrose 51 Complained 
ways 53 Maltreat 9 Reneeof 54 Waver 
the silents 55 Penetrate 10 Trade 57 Garb 11 "-~ot a, 59 Not nice 
feeling... 62-fide(in 12 Family bad faith) 
room 63 British gun 13 Power 64 Discharge 20 True 65 Rod 21 Mimic 66 Chopper 
Campus 
Friday, Nov.13 

•1 
-'\ p.m. -Drawings, jack Olsen, Hammes Gallery, Saint Mary's College 

• 
3 p.m. -Pasquerilla Halls Dedication Lecture, "Distinguished American Women Lecture Series", Actress Helen Hayes, Center For Continuing Education Auditorium, All are welcome 

• 
3:30 p.m. -Lecture, "Knowing The One That Knows", Roderick Chisholm, Memorial Library Lounge, Sponsored by Philosophy Department, 

•4-5 
p.m. -Spanish Club Tertulia, South Alcove On Main Floor, LaFortune, Venga para hablar con nosotros y practicar el arte de conversar! 

•4:30 
p.m. -Lecture, "Representations of Al­gebra!...: Groups", B. Parshall, session four, 226 Computing Center and Math Building, 

•7, 
9:30 p.m. -Film, "Blues Brothers", Carroll Hall, Saint Mary's College, sponsored by Student Activities Programing Board, $1 admission 

•8 
p.m. -Show, "Follies '81 ", O'Laughlin Auditorium, Saint Mary's College, Sponsored by St. Joseph Medical Center Auxiliary, Tickets at the door 

•8 
p.m. -Hockey Game, ND vs Michigan State, at Mich;gan State 

•8 
p.m. -ND/SMC Second S<.·ene, "Adieu Emma", Saint Mary's College Club House 

•8 
p.r.1. -Pasquerilla Halls Dedication Musicale, Michelle Hrman-Gulick, soprano with Chicago Ly> _;;,Opera Co., Memorial Library Auditorium 


Saturday, November 14 

• 
3 p.m. -Football Game, ND vs Air Force, at Colorado Springs, 

• 
3:.30-5 p.m. -Pasquerilla Dedication, An exhibi­tion of paintings by Italian Masters, Snite Museum ofArt, 

•7, 
9:30 p.m. -Film, "Blues Brothers", Carroll Hall, Saint Mary's College, S I admission 

•7:30 
p.m. -Hockey, ND vs Michigan State, Ath­letic and Convocation Center, 

•8 
p.m. -Show, "Follies '81 ", O'Laughlin Auditorium, Saint Mary's College, Sponsored by St. Joseph Medical Center Auxiliary, Tickets available at the door 

•8 
p.m.-ND/SMC Second Scene, "Adieu Em.ma", Saint Mary's Club House, 

•8 
p.m. -ND/SMC Theatre, "The Inspector General", Washington Hall, 

•8 
p.m. -Lecture, "The Folly of Peacemaking", Daniel Berrigan, S.]., peace activist, Memorial Library Auditorium, sponsored by Pax Christi, Center For Experimental Learning, Cll..A, and Campus Ministry 


Sunday, Nov. 15 

• 
10 a.m. -Pasquerilla Dedication Mass, Sacred Heart Church, Rev. Theodore Hesburgh, principle cele'·rant, Rev. John Van Wolvlear, homillst, All are welcome 

•11 
a.m. -Seminar, "Learning To Teach: Profes­sional Preparartion of Massachusettes Parochial School Faculty, 1870-1940", Mary J. Oates, College, 600 Memorial Library, Sponsored America::1 Catholic Studies Seminar, 

•12: 
15 p.m. -Mass, Rev. Daniel Berrigan, S.]., homilist, Sacred Heart Church, All are welcome 

•3 
p.m. -Concert, South Bend Symphony Or­chestra, Guest soloist-joanna Simon, mezzo­soprano, ()'Laughlin Auditorium, Sponsored by Performing Arts Series, 

• 
.3:.30 p.m. -French Mass, father Kannengiesser, Morrissey Hall Chapel, Sponsored by French Club, 

•7 
-9 p.m -Basketball Charity Event, ND Men and Women Basketball intra-squad Game, Athletic and Convocation Center, Adults $1, Students ';O cents, Tickets available at gate I 0, Neighborhood Study-Help Program and Special Olympics, 

•8 
p.m. -Meeting, Bengal Boxers. LaFortune Ball­room, 1-tandatory 

•8: 
I'; p.m. -Concert, Craig Craml·r, llnivnsity organist, Sacred Heart Church 


.. 
and &!R&8m!IOJPIPfi1Bii will invade~~ tonight as we introduce a ntte oJ 
ICE CREAM DRINKS! 
You 'II love 'em! 
Saturday night: 
Schnapps special! 
-------,-------.--­
Friday, November 13, 1981 -page 20

Sports 
---~-----,,------­
Irish hit the road, travel to Air Force 
ByKELLY SULLIVAN 
Sports Writ·!r 

"»-COLORADO SPRINGS, Col. -Al­though Notre Dame is leaving the friendly confines of its own home field this weekend, a warm recep­tion still awaits the team at the Air Force Academy. The weather here is averaging near 70 degrees during the day and athletic officials say that might put the crowd in Falcon 
Stadium around 40,000 tomorrow, a 
good draw for a 3-5 Cadet team. 
But along with the temperature change, the Irish will have to adjust to some different atmospheric con­ditions as well. "They'll be huffing and puffing in the fourth quarter," says Air Force coach Ken Hatfield. "They'll have a little trouble with the air if they run around a lot because they're used to that heavy Indiana 

~ air." The Irish are used to Indiana victories, too, but Gerry Faust will try again to get his first on the road tomorrow. On paper, the Notre Dame-Air Force games come out a mismatch every time, but on the field, the Fal­cons have often given the Irish more trouble than Notre Dame has bar­gained for. And though his team is a big favorite tomorrow, Gerry Faust outlined plenty of reasons Ken Hat­field's 3-5 ballclub has given the Notre Dame coach reason to worry this week. 
•They return nine starters on a defense that stifled the Irish offense last season, taking a 3-3 tie into the 
,.. lockerroom at the half before succumbing, 24-10. 
•They've 
got momentum going after two straight wins over Oregon and Army. 

•They'll 
have benefitted from an open date that allowed them two weeks of preparation for tomorrow afternoon's showdown. 

• 
And they're a service academy. "That means they're well disciplined 


and intelligent," adds Faust. "Their football players make very few men­tal errors out on the field." 
The Irish definitely have size on their side, though Faust doesn't think that's always a decisive ad­vantage. "Ifit's aclose game, it might be a factor in that you can wear them down, but when your team has the size, usually their team has quick­ness." 
Notre Dame has picked up speed, though, the last few weeks, thanks to a trio of position switches involving split endjoe Howard, tight end Tony Hunter and wingback Greg Bell. 
"They've given us the big play," says Faust. "Notre Dame so often has been known as a team that grinds out the yardage, but we've proven the last two weeks that we can score from anywhere at any time." 
Part of the progress can be credited to improved success at the wingback slot. John Mosley got a pair of touchdowns from that posi­tion last week, the first set up by a Bell 41-yard wingback sweep. 
"With the offense that we run, we take what the other team gives us," Faust explains. "Georgia Tech was more concerned with our tight end and our split end, and that allowed us to exploit the wingback real well. 
"Mosley and Bell both did an ex­cellent job. A lot of people don't realize that the key to that 96-yard touchdown pass was a good block by Greg Bell -he froze one of their safeties. If the other team is going to give us that added dimension by 

overlooking the wingback, we're 
going to take advantage ofit." 

Faust has taken advantage ofquar­terback Blair Kiel's increased con­fidence in recent games. "He's relaxing now," says his coach. "That's what's helped his passing." 
But Kiel's availability for tomor­
row remains questionable. The 
sophomore made the trip this morn­

ing, but still is recuperating from a 
See AIR FORCE, page 16 


Irish tailback Phil Carter (22), who leads the Force's George james bas scored six touchdowns team in rushing with 480 yards, squares off this season. (photo byjohn Macor) against another talented back tomorrow: Air 
Key matchup 

Carter, James pace running attacks 
By SKIP DESJARDIN 
Associate Sports Editor 
At first glance, the two seem to be complete opposites. In fact, after a cursory investigation, they seem to have very little in common. But tomorrow Phil Carter and George James each will be a key factor in the success or failure of his respective team. 
Four years ago, James was a little­known high school tailback in Lan­caster, Cal. There were no colleges clamoring for his services, no high­pressure recruiters knocking at his door, and little thought that his foot­ball career would go anywhere. 
"I rushed for about 990 yards my 
'Home-and-home 

leers face Spartans this weekend 
By MICHAEL OLENIK 

a. Sports Writer 
Lefty Smith and his crew will have their first WCHA reunion of the season this weekend when they make a Friday night stop in East Lan­sing and then come back to the ACC for a Saturday night date with the Spartans of Michigan State. 
With a league record of 2-3-1, the Itish are muddled in the thick ofthe CCHA standings, while the 4-1-1 Spartans are but a half-game behind conference leader Northern Michi­gan. 
Benefitting from some sensational goaltending and the return of 19 let­termen, Michigan State has strolled 
'. . . it has been the 
second period that has given us trouble. ' 
through its first three CCHA series in surpnsmg fashion, especially considering the Spartans' 1Oth place finish last year in the WCHA. 
The Irish, on the other hand, are looking for that all-important mis­sing ingredient -consistency. In several instances this season, the Irish have clearly dominated two periods ofgames that they have lost, and Smith is searching for a "In all three ofour losses this year, 

we have played only 40 minutes ofa 
game that lasts 60," related Smith af­
ter last week's split with Western 
Michigan. "And for some unknown 
reason, it has been the second period that has given us trouble. All three ofour losses have been by one goal, and in those games we have been outscored by a combined total of8-0 in the second period." 
Probably the most vital key to Michigan State's quick rise to league prominence is sophomore goal ten­der Ron Scott. The WCHA Rookie of theYcar last season, Scott has picked • up where he left off in sparkling form·, as he boasts a 2.33 goals against average in six games, includ­ing 74 saves in last week's series with Ferris State. 
Understandably, Spartan Coach Ron Mason is delighted with his team's progess so far this season. "We are still learning things about this team, but we have been very happy with the progress we are making at this time," says Mason. "We are confident of the bunch we have on defense, and offensively we should be able to score a little better than we have in the past." 
IfMichigan State has a weakness, it 
would have to be the offensive out­put of its front line. Led by center Newell Brown and junior right wing Mark Ham way, the Spartan offense obviously has been getting the job really needs. Last week, for instance, the Spartans found themselves scoring only six goals for the series, an output that will not consistently win in the high-powered CCHA. 
Once again, Smith's senior line of Jeff Perry, Bill Rothstein and Dave Poulin will be looked to for Notre Dame's primary scoring punch, as all three rank at the top of the Irish scoring stats. Perry's five goals and six assists lead the team, while Rothstein and Poulin have regis­tered nine points apiece. 
Dave Laurion will again find him, selfguarding the Irish cage come the opening faceoff Friday, and with good reason. Laurion's play in the last two weeks has been outstand­ing, and his name is mentioned fee­quently in league circles as the goaltender to watch as the season advances. As Smith so succinctly put it this week, "David's play has just been unreal. He's playing as well as we could ask him to play." 
The Irish have the opportunity to 
prove that they belong in the 

league's leadership race, so watch 
for a highly competitive series with 
some enthusiastic play from both 
teams. 
IRISH ITEMS: Irish wing Kirt Bjork 
will return to action this weekend af­
ter sitting out last week's series at 
Western Michigan. Faceofi· will be 
7:30 at the ACC tomorrow night, so have some refreshments early and senior year," James remembers. "I was chosen all-league and all-valley but the only· school that recruited me was a junior college in California. 
"I had a few contacts at the Air Force Academy so I asked them to put in a good word for me. When I got here, I went out for the team as a walk-on and made it." 
Meawhile, in Tacoma, Wash., Phil Carter was well on his way to becoming a Parade All-American at Woodrow Wilson High School. He ended up at Notre Dame, and on UPI's All-America squad with an honorable mention. · 
Despite their diverse back­grounds, the two runners will play key roles in tomorrow's game. Notre Dame's passing game has finally come out from under wraps, but any armchair quarterback will tell you that you have to establish the ground game in order to get the pas­sing game airborne. 
Air Force, on the other hand, has relied heavily on its running game all year. They've thrown just one touchdown pass, but have taken the ball over on the ground 13 times. 
On almost half of those touch­
down runs, James has carried the 

ball. His six scorin lun es ives him the team scoring lead with 36 points. On top ofthat, the 5-9 senior leads the team in kickoff returns, averaging nearly 20 yards per run­back. That is close to his record of last year, when he averaged.over 20 yards per return. 
Nagging injuries have plagued Carter throughout the season. As a result, he has gained an atypical 480 yards on the ground this season. That's a far cry from the early part of last year, when he was rushing for over 200 yards seemingly every week. His 254 yards against Michi­gan State was just one short ofNotre Dame's all-time record. 
And Carter had another big day late in the season. After a thigh injury sufferred on his last carry of that game in East Lansing, he was in and out of the lineup for some time. He came back strong in the season's home finale, however. 
As it happens, that game was the last time the Irish and the Falcons met. Carter carried the ball29 times, and came away with 181 yards in that one, while backfield mate Jim Stone added another 81 yards of his own. It was, to say the least, a happy 
See BACKS, page 17 

Hoops squads play Sunday for charity 
BySKIP DESJARDIN 
Associate Sports Editor 
Digger Phelps and Mary DiS­
tanislao will give the public a 
sneak preview of their 1981-82 
squads at the annual Notre Dame 
charity scrimmage this Sunday 
night. 
The games are held animally for the benefit of the Neighbor­hood Study Help program and the Special Olympics. Admission is S1 for adults and 50 cents for students. The whole night is designed as a means for the public to come out and see the teams, both of whom will be available to sign autographs and pose for pictures afterward. 
"This has become an annual af­fair, and something we look for­ward to," says Phelps. "It's our way of helping the Neighbor­hood Study Help Program and the Special Olympics, and give the people from South Bend a chance to come out and see the team. 
"It's a very informal evening," he continues. "You'll see players changing jerseys in the middle of the game and suddenly playing for the other team. But we always have a real good time, and it's for a great cause." 
Phelps says he has yet to make final lineup decisions for the game, but spectators can expect to see the lineup that has become more or less the "first team" in practice a good deal of the time. That lineup features John Paxson and Mike Mitchell at the guards, Tom Sluby and Billy Varner at the forward spots, and Barry Spencer in the middle. 
Fans should also watch for 
freshman standout Dan Duff and 
classmate Ron Rowan to team up 
See HOOPS, page 17 

-~ ir~e~aso~n~a~b~l~e~e~x~p~l~an~a~tj~o~n~.ii~iiiiii~d~o~n~e~,~b~u~t~n~o~t~t~o~th~e~e~x~t~e~n~t~t~h~a~t~it~~co~m~e~g~e~t~a~go~o~d~s~e~a~t.iiiiiiiiiiii~iiii~~ii~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~iiiiiiiiiiiiiiii~ 

