
~--~---~.......-~-~-------------·---~~·------~----­
.Dogtna page 7 
V< ll.. XV. NO. I ~·) 

'Miracle' flight 
Astronauts relax, debrief 
SPACE CENTER, Houston (AP) -Columbia's astronauts, eagt·r to lly again, began telling specialists yt·sterday till' details of a !light they dt·scribt·d as "just short of a mirack." 
John Young and Robert Crippen had the morning frn· to relax with their families after an historic .2-day orbital !light that cndl'll spectat·ularly Tuesday with a pinpoint landing on a desert runway in California. 
Tht·y huddll'd after lunch with !light operations director (ieorgt· Addcy and t•nginccrs ami technicians anxious to discuss the flight while details still arc fresh in tht· astronauts' minds. 
For tht· next ~even working days, Young and Crippen, with tapt· rn:onkrs spinning, will answer qut·stions fired by relays of expt·rts on all of Columbia's hundreds of systt·ms. Then tht· astronauts will hold a ncs um­ft·n·nce to givt· t,llt'ir impressions to tht· world. 
Columbia. the world's lirst rcflyablc spaceship, was a ncar·flawk's machine. so there are ft-w prohkms to analyzt·. I'rom thc momt·nt of its blning departure from C.tpt· Canavnal. Fla.. on Sunday, to till' landing at Ed· ward!'. Air Force Base on Tm·!-.day, only a few minor prohlt-ms cropped up. 
Till' spaceship will remain at Edwards until next Tut·sday whik-tcchnidan!'. thoroughly inspect it ht'fore st·nding it hack to the launchpad at Cape Canaveral, strapped to till' top of a spt·cial Boc:ing 7·17 jetliner. 

Officials said initial inspection showed the shuttle to he in great condition. A few non-critical thermal tiles on the top of the tail section suffered some shock damage at liftoff, hut the important ones, those that protected the sensitive underside from re-entry heat, were in ex­cellent shape. 
So excellt.-nt, in fact, that the astronauts were told yes­terday that serial numbers on the thousands of underbelly tiles were still rt·adable despite the dive through the atmosphere at temperatures up to 2j0,000 dt·grccs. · 
Three more Columbia test !lights, ranging up to st·ven days, arc plannt·d. But officials said that NASA might consider eutting off the last ont· if the spaceship continues to perti>rm as well as it did on its maiden voyage. 
That could advance to mid· I'JH.2 the vehicles opt·ra­tional date, when it can begin moving routinely into space, ft·rrying payloads and expnimt·nts for military, scientitk and com mercia! missions. 
Donald K.Slayton, a former astronaut who heads the shuttle test tlight program, said the desert landing on Rogers Dry Lake was so perfect that Columbia may start returning to Earth on a 15,000-foot runway at Cape Canaveral soonn than expected. The first touchdown near tht· laund1 sitc now is set for the fifth mission, in I'JH2. 
-Corby's awaits decision 

By TOM KOEGEL 
St•lllorStaffRt•Jmrlt•r 
Tht· ownt·rs of Corby Tavcrn and 
mt·mhers of the Northca..~t Neigh­
borhood Council presented con­
trasting opinions ofthe management 
of the bar at a meeting of the: St. Jost·ph County Alcoholic Beverage Commission ycstt·rday. 
Thc mccting wa..~ to dctermine wlu·thcr Corby's Tavern Industries Inc will be granted a renewal of its threc-way liquor license. The local ABC took all the cvidencc under consideration and will announcc its verdict at its mt.·cting nt·xt Wcdnes­day. 
Yesterday's mccting wa..~ more than a discussion of the: record of Corby's Tavern. Many of the remonstrators against Corby's took time to discus..~ the role: of ND-SMC students in the problems of thc Northeast Nei!lilhorhood, including City Council president and North­ca..~! Neighborhood Rcpresentative Lew McGann. 
McGann rt.·portcd that he had met with Notrt· Dame Dean of Students James Roemn la..~t friday in an effort to tlnd ways to disnJUragc largt· off· campus parties and the prohit ems of on Glmpus students traveling to the 
Five Points bars. 
l>t-puty City Attorney James Ma..~· tt·rs presented police rt·ports documenting arrests and otht·r t'Vidt·nce of underage drinking at Corby's throughout I'JHO. Tht· retTnt arrests of eight Saint Mary's College students were discusst·d, hut they will not bear on this year's license rt·newal since they occurred 
in I'JHI. 
The mt-cting quiekly became a confrontation ht·tween Masters and tht· attorneys ti>r CTI Inc.. Thomas Anton and Jost·ph Quill. Tht• police rt•t·ords dl'!ailcd arrests on January 25 and March 14 of last year, and an incident involving large crowds on 
Novnnhn 25. 
Quill and Anton were quick to 
note that none ofthe arrests were of Corby's personnel, but were in tact only arrests of underage patrons. Ma..o;tcrs was equally quick to cite Regulation 43 ofthe Indiana State: Al­coholic Beverage Code which al­lows the local ABC to take into account all pertinent information in its decisions on license renewal. 

Much of the three and one-half hour meeting was taken up by tes­timony from remonstrators both for and against the rcncwal. The meeting room in the South Bend County·City Building was filled, mainly with residents ofthc area im­mediately next to Corby's who also had grievances against the establish­ment. 
Northeast Neighborhood Council President Arthur Quigley summed up the residents complaints ofnoise, litter, and underage drinking by saying that he hdicvcs in "neighborliness," and that Corby Tavern and its owners "have not been good neighbors." 
Corby's co-owner and manager, Harold Rawley replied that Quigley and other leaders of the Council arc "a cabal of self-serving men who would, in fact, attcmpt to manip: ulate the Northea..~t Neighborhood Association (sic) to their own designs. We arc good neighbors." 
Among the remonstrators in favor of the license rcncwal was United Beverage Company of South Bend President Matthew Dce, who com-
See CORBYS, page 4 
WASHINGTON {AP)-President Rt·agan told Americans just hours before yesterday's midnight deadline for filing income taxes that they already pay too much to the government and should let vacation­ing members ofCongress know thev 

Mideast trip 
Haig changes few minds 
WASHINGTON (AP) -While 
Secretary ofState Alcxander M. Haig 
Jr. scort:d some successes on his mis­
sion to the Midcast, the moderate 
Arab nations were virtually 
unmoved by his claim that the threat 
of Soviet aggression should be their 
~o:rcatest concern. 
Instead, like his ti>rcrunners, Haig 
found the issue of Palestinian 
autonomy the most vexing impcdi· 
mcnt to U.S. foreign policy goals in 
the region. 

llaig heard both in Jordan and Saudi Arabia that lsrad is seen as the greatest threat to security in the region, .and that any resolution of that fc:ar must indude an Arah-lsradi settlement on · the Palt-stinian prohlt-m. 
The tt·rms ofthat settlement, from an Arab viewpoint, arc unchanged: withdrawal of lsrad from occupied taritorics on the• West Bank of tht· 
Jt)rdan River and in Jerusalem, and recognition of the Palestine Libera· tion Organization as the representa­tive of the Palestinian people. 
Those: arc conditions that the Israelis have heretofore been unwill­ing to accept, and llaig apparently heard nothing while in Jerusalem to indicate a softening of Israel's posi­tion. 
The Reagan administration is committed to the I971-l Camp David accords between Israel and Egypt as the basis for negotiations to achieve 

a settlement, even though those negotiations have been stalled ovc.r the question of autonomy for Pales· tinians in tht· Israeli-occupied lands. 
A ranking State Department offi­cial, traveling with. llaig, told rt·porters during the tlight back to Washington that the United S~ates' Europt·an allies may push their own plan for peace negotiations, that could include the PLO, if the Camp David process remains at a standstilL 
·­
The highly placed U.S. official said that "if by the end of the year they arc not comfortable, they will probably he looking for other al­ternatives." This followed meetings llaig held with leaders of Great Britain, France, Germany and Italy. 
Before stopping in Europe, llaig journeyed to Israel, Egypt. Saudi Arabia and Jordan to push the ad· ministration's goal of building a "strategic consensus" of nations to confrom Soviet expansion into the oil-rich region. 
An official statemt·nt in Jordan. read by Foreign Minister Karwan al Kassem, with llaig at his side, didn't c:ven mention the Soviets, while harshly denouncing Israel. Saudi of­tkials were more polite, and cxprt·sscd concern ;1bout tht· Soviets, hut abo said Israel was tht'ir chidconcern. 
Saudi Arabia's forl'ign minister, Prince Saud, said as llaig wa..o; leaving Riyadh that the: "time is propitious" for a settlement. 
.. A ....S:C~:ZUS: 
will no longer stand tor it. 
In a message clearly aimed at get· ting his tax and spending cuts hack on track, tht• convalescing prt'sidt·nt said, "Americans will continue to pay too much money to the fedaal government until the Congress acts on our proposals to rcdun· tax rates across tht· hoard. 
Congress is on a two·week recess, after committees in both chambers delivered setbacks last wt·ek to the Reagan budget plan. 
"Americans ha t ve always ht·en prepared to pay their fair share," Reagan added in a statt·mt·nt. "but today they should make dear to all elected officials that government has gone beyond its hounds and that tht· people will not tolt-rutc tht• t·ver· increasing tax burden tht·y han· t·x­pericnced in recent years." 
Taking note of rival tax proposals 
in Congress. Reagan s;lid "they will 
rt·sult in higher taxt·s for tht· 
American pt·opk. In fau, thl'st· al· 
tcrnatives art· not tht· answer; they 
arc the problem. 
See TAXES, pa~o~c -l 

The Observer will 
resume publication on Wednesday 

Apri/22. 

Have a good break! 

''.
I''
... 





l\T~~S~!=)=f4.~i=~~~~S========~~======================T=hu=r=sd=a=y,=A=pr=il=I=6=ti=9=8=I==p=a=ge=2~ 

by The Observer and The AJJociated PreJJ 
Former U.S. Attorney General Richard Klein­
dienst, who resigned amid the Watergate scandal and later pleaded 
guilty to testifying falsely to the Senate, was indicted on 14 counts of 
perjury by an Arizona grand jury yesterday. The indictment capped a 
six-month investigation that started when Bar Association officials 
told prosecutors that Kleindienst allegedly lied to their administrative 
and disciplinary committees during their 1978 and 1980 inquiries. 
The bar is recommending that the Arizona Supreme Court suspend 
Kleindienst from practicing law for one year because of his alleged 
perjury and unethical conduct during investigations of the alleged 
milking of S7 million in Teamster Union health and welfare funds. 
Kleindienst, who maintained his innocence before the indictments 
were handed down, reacted to them by saying, "holy mackerel." "I am 
not a liar," he said. Kleindienst faces arraignment April 22. -AP 
Thewashington Postwill return its Pulitzer Prize for feature writing because the subject of the article, about an 8-year-old heroin addict, did not exist, the Washington Star reported yesterday. In a story prepared for its late editions, The Star, quoting Post sources, also reported that Janet Cooke, author of the article, had offered her resignation. The Post declined immediate comment. The Star quoted a spokesman for District of Columbia Mayor Marion Barry as saying Post Executive Editor Benjamin Bradlee called the mayor today to say that parts of the story were "inaccurate" and that the child, identified only as Jimmy,' was a "composite." In New York, a spokesman for Columbia University, which awards the prizes upon the recommenda­tion of the Pulitzer Prize board, said the board would have no im­mediate comment on the Star's story. "It's not right for us to comment at this point," said Fred Knubel, the university spokesman. "We've received no official word on it." In the story, Miss Cooke told ofwatch­
ing the lover of the child's mother inject heroin into the boy's arm. 
The story was published at a time when an influx of high quality but 
cheap heroin on the streets ofWashington had led to a surge in heroin 
use. The story had created a storm ofcontroversy from the day it was 
printed with various District ofColumbia officials publicly expressing 
their doubt about its accuracy. The Washington police department to 
subpoena Miss Cooke and editors of the Post in an effort to find the 
8-year-old described in the article. The Post said it would refuse to 
cooperate with them on First Amendment grounds. -AP 
President Reagan issued "full and unconditional 
pardons" yesterday to two former FBI officials convicted ofauthoriz­
ing unlawful investigative practices during the Nixon administration. 
The two, W. Mark Felt and EdwardS. Miller, were appealing their U.S. 
District Court convictions of violating the civil rights of friends and 
relatives of members of the Weather Underground, a leftist, oc­
casionally violent off.~hoot of the anti-Vietnam War movement of the 
1960s. Felt was fined 1!5,000 and Miller, 113,500, by U.S. DistrictJudge 
William B. Bryant after their conviction last December The maximum 
penalty was 10 years imprisonment and a $10,000 fine on the single 
conspiracy charge. Both men admitted approving break-ins ofprivate 
residences, but Miller's lawyer, Thomas A. Kennelly, said the practice 
was long-established and would be possible under current guidelines 
with the approval ofthe bureau's director or the attorney general. The 
two served the FBI and the nation "with great distinction," Reagan 
said. "To punish them further -after three years ofcriminal prosecu­
tion -proceedings would not serve the ends ofjustice," Reagan said. 
Felt was once then-FBI director]. Edgar Hoover's principal deputy 
and Miller headed the FBI's Intelligence Division. -AP 
New violence broke out in the West Virginia coal­fields and coal trucks were pelted with rocks in Kentucky yesterday amid reports that the United Mine Workers and coal operators remain far apart on ending a 21-day-old strike by 160,000 miners. West Vir­ginia authorities arrested two Philpott Coal Corp. guards and con­fiscated two shotguns and ammunition after two UMW officials were alleg~dly shot at outside the union's District 29 headquarters in Be­ckley, W.Va. Kentucky state police said rocks were thrown at coal trucks near Pikeville when they passed a group of about 50 pickets. There were no injuries or arrests, authorities said. In Washington, talks between the l'MW and the Bituminous Coal Operators Associa­tion were recessed until Friday after a meeting Tuesday ended in dis­agreement on attempts to negotiate a new contract. -AP 
The Charges against eight Saint Mary's women for underage drinking were dropped yesterday. In an apparent settlement ofthe case. the eight were ordered to perform ten hours ofunspcified community work. The women were arrested hy South Bend Police in Corby's Tavern in late January and charged with possession of an al­co1wlic beverage hy a minor. The arrests became the subject ofcon­troversy after the \vomen were strip searched by a female probationary oftker. Niether the women nor their attorneys would comment upon any possibile litigation against the city as a result ofthe search. -Tbe Observer 
Those who waited until the last minute to fik income tax returns should expect a 10-week wait before their refunds arrive, an Internal Revenue Service nfikial said in Indianapolis Wednesday. An l'Mimated 2.1 million Hoosiers were expected to file by midnight Wednesday -deadline for filing, speculated Bob Branson, an IRS spokesman. Officials expect the dash of"deadline filers" to slow down the arrival of refund checks. -AP 
Increase in cloudinesswith a 3o percmt chance of afternoon showers. high in the Mid-60's. Showers and thunder­showers likely at night. Lows near 'iO. A good chance of thunder­showers Friday. High's near 70. -AP 

Shuttle promises stars 
"An orbiting truck", "a flying boxcar", "a space taxi" -these are all terms that have been used to describe the Space Shuttle. 
With the successful Columbia mtsston behind us, cynics and critics have been temporarily silenced. Two years behind schedule, and a few billion dollars over budget, the first mission has been a triumph in technol­ogy over nature. Looking like an abstract creation by a demented child, this collection of non-conforming shapes, weighing hundreds of tons, defied the laws of gravity and shot of into space literally like: "a rocket." Later, Columbia broke tradition by returning to earth and landing in manner befitting a cargo plane-albeit a rather stubby one. Thanks to its heat tiles, instead of behaving as nature intended and incinerating itself; Columbia plunged through the atmosphere heating up 
to 2700 degrees. After landing, the heat had not at all 
scathed the craft. 

After the Apollo program of the sixties, NASA asked itself the question: "What next?". Apollo stands as the most impressive accomplishment acheived by the human race. In less than ten years, the United States placed a man on a hunk ofminerals spinning around us a quarter of a million miles away. This had been ac­complished with minimal economic regard. A rocket 
costing millions was steadily 
put~;r chips, and perfect ball thrown away until all that bearings. Later, at the remained was three decade's close, an orbiting astronauts, and a few space station could be as­souvenirs of their expedi­sembled. That will place tion. 
men permanently in space. A steadily worsening Why have men spinning economic climate above us? Because they can precluded such ex-
lay the groundwork for huge travagence in the seventies. 
orbitng solar collector Always politically wise, panels that can catch the NASA realized it's future suns energy without atmos­depended on it doing more pheric interference. This with less. Thus evolved the energy can be beamed to 
design for a space system earth at a cost comparable to able to carry the heaviest present methods of power loads ever into space then generation-without the 
return to earth unscorched to be used again. During the early seventies, the program limped along with meager funds. Developing all the new gizmos cost much more then anticipated, in fact, the shuttle would still be sit­
ting in the hanger if it were not for the military. 
In I977, the Pentagon saw the shuttle as hopelessly underfunded and bailed the program out with a few hundreds of millions. It was no act of charity. The defense applications for the shuttle are astounding. Besides carrying a whole plethora of gear for spying, peeking, and booby trapping into orbit, a few gadgets under development could possibly dramatically shift the balance ofpower into our favor. The days offantasy are over; Star Wars has arrived. In a few years the shuttle will carry a laser gun (yes, a lazer gun) into orbit that will vaporize enemy satellitesspace stations, and missiles. In fact, a third of the shuttles missions will be for the military. Such is the price ofcharity. 
For a couple of years the Soviets have been sending up little satellites resembling cans of hug spray. These little satelites play catch up with other little Soviet satellites, and at the proper time blow themselves and enviromental costs. 
What has the space program done for the average person? Ballpoint pens, teflon, heart pacemakers, HBO & ESPN, pocket cal­culators, direct-dial international calling, synthetic fabrics; these are just a few ofthe products derived from the space program. The shuttle promises to multiply that number exponentially. If that's not spending money on ourselves, what is? 
Finally, the national purpose and pride derived are beyond value. The knowledge gained continues the human tradition of expanding our knowledge of our world. Columbia commanderjohn Young went further: "We're really not too far, the human race, from going to the stars." 
Observer notes.________, 
The Observer is always looking for new reporters. 
No experience is necessary. If you are interested, 
contact one ofour news editors at 8661. 

~The_Obs.eryer_ 
Desig11 Editor................... Deirdre Murphy Desig11 Assistants......................... Patty Fox Layout Staff ........................ Randy Rc:ntnc:r T)pesetter ............................ Stephc:n Brown Neu•s Editor.............................john Biggins Copv Editors ............... Mary Fran Callahan 
Tom Melsheimer Features Layout............ ......... G.A. Swiercz Sports Copy Editor ............. Dave Dziedzic Typist.. . .....................................Cindy Jones S)'stems Co11trol ................. Bruce Oakley ND Day Editor......... ........ Megan Boyle 
S.IIC D'ay Editor........ ...... Mary Kay Hogan Ad Desig11 ........ .... Woody & Co. Pbotographt>r ... .. .... Rachel Blount Guest Appearam·es .......... f-ledges & Rudd 
Benson & fledges Joe "Foot" Treanor & Friends Griff & the Gang The Easter Bunny Lover 
Christina Etc. 
The Observer (USPS 598 920) IS published Monday through Fnday except durmg exam and vacat1on penods The Observer IS publtshed by the students of Notre Dame and Samt Mary s College Subscnpt10ns may be purchased for $30 per year ($15 per semester) by wntmg The Ob­server, P 0 Box 0 Notre Dame. ln­dtana 46556 
The Observer ts a member of the Assoctated Press. All reproductton rtghts are reserved. 

their target to bits. These "killer satellites" pose a major threat to American satelites vital to our national defense. By leapfrogging the russians with the superior capability of the shuttle, we can gain the upper hand in space and force negotiations banning weapons and other equally undesirable items from space. 
Despite its defense duties, the shuttle mission remains to convert space from an expensive adventure, into a cost-effective industrial complex. Initially, more and bigger payloads will be carried into orbit. Starting next year, the "boxcar" sized payload bay will hold a joint American-European "Spacelab," that will test a variety of manufacturing processes. Using the perfect vacuum and weightlessness of space, a number of products can he made that are not possible on earth. These include life-saving drugs, microscopic com­

-


• 
dl'pendable, top-meln!alned power"llft tailgates or 1>-:mdy Ch!J-Jro;ets and other fine trucks loading ramps • hand trucks nnd 

• 
focal or one-way at low rates ·iurnlture pads; low bars to l1i<ller 

• 
panel vans ar.d 12-ft. vans with your car • nat!onwlde roa1 ser­aut;>-shift, othnr sizes to move v:ce • moving tips • lnsu ':J.nce up Ill 7 rooms of furniture • • major credit car ;Is honored 


must be 18 years of age with valid driver's license 


The Observer Thursday, April16, 1981 -page 3 

Collegiate Press 

Observer wins awards 

ByJOHN MCGRATH ofCorby's Tavern. recognized for excellence 16 times litlitflr·in·Cbief Tony Walton, an ObsenJer writer, in I 0 separate categories. The earned second place: honors in the magazine finished first in nine of 
The: Indiana Collegiate: Press As· best news analysis competition for those categories, including best sociation awarded certificates of his pic:cc: on the c:lectoral college. editorial, best feature, best review, ­merit to The Obsen,er and four of its 
Paul Mullaney, former Editor-in­best column, best informative ar­writers at tht• 111 the: Indiana Col· Chid, and Kelly Sullivan, a sports ticle, and best in­
kgiatc: Press Association convention 

writer, received honorable mention tt·rpretive/i,nvestigative article. last wc:c:kl·nd in New Albany, Ind. honors. Mullaney was recognized in 
Among those honored for Tht· Scholastic also placed first in the: best column category and Sui· 
excellence in the: contest were: Ter­the: nc:ws/gt·m·ral interest magazine livan w:;s honored for a story in the 
ry Keeley, Dan Moore, Jeff Ripple, category. best sports story competition. Nick Nikas, Lance Mazerov, Ken 
john Higgins, a News Editor, The Obseroer garnered honorable Scarbrough, Tony Walton, Eliabeth rc:ceivt·d top honors iii tht· best in­mention recognition in the: best 
. Blakely, Eileen O'Meara, Kay TePas, vestigative: story category for his front page make:-up category. 
Tom O'Toole, and Scholastic Editor­st·ric:s on the: li4uor license: renewal The Scholastic also was in-ChiefChuck Wood. 
'Peaceful revolution' 

Machado plans to raise IQs 
Kentucky, Louisville pitch in to repair sewer 
I.Ol!ISVILI.Ii. Ky. (AP) -An the: governnwntal units parti<)pat­a~;:nTilll'llt that spt·cific:s who will ing in the: agreement. flay till' costs of damage from Louis· The sewer l'Ompany has charged ville's Fc:h. I5 sewer explosion is that Ralston's Soybean Division no-11• hc:adt·tl IC1r Jdl'crson Fisl·al plant is responsihk for the: explo· Court for final approval. sions because the: plant c:mittt·tl­
Tlw agnTmc:nt was unanimously hn~anc: gas that allc:gc:dly caused the: approved hy tht· Louisville: Board of blasts. Aldnnwn Tm·sday night. The: agree:· The: city has said it will not sue: nll·nt spc:dtks that the city, county MSI> over the incident. Ralston al· and ~t<Hc: will each put SSOO,OOO in· ready lact·s more: than half a dozen to a pool that got·s toward strtTl lawsuits connectetl with the explo­rt·pairs and intc:fl·st on a loan MSD sions, including in excess of S8 mil· 
will gl'l for st·wt·r fl·pairs. lion flied by IS residents of tht· 
Tht· sc:wc:r company expects to sewer blast arc:a. borrow ht·twtTn S2 million and $'; The: latest estimate of total million to n·pair damagt· from the damage caust·d by the blats is set at explosion, whkh on·urn:d in the 525.1 million. 
(>ld I.ouisvilk and Parkhill neigh· horhootls. Carrell said that SSOO.OOO of the: local money will go towartl street repair and $1 million 

Student cites Rockne 
will be: ust·d to hc:lp pay intt·rc:st on the: sewer c:ompany loans. The: city-county-state pool will 


locker room conditions 
or till' amount to he: sought. sidcration, particularly in regard to ·timism of rc:c:civing feedback from 
If till' city were to recover any "allegetllim huild~1p in the facility." ...othcr girls who agree that the: lock­mont·y through a lawsuit, saitl Van On behalf of the administration;' ~r room shoultl he maintained at a Ryan, it would bt· used to pay hack Etl Kazmierzak, Rockne Memorial cleaner level." 
• 

supplies come from the presidential 
offices. 
As for the budget, "Nothing. Zero," Machado said. "We use what is already there as part ofthe govern­ment's permanent structure. That includes the nation's educational system, the armed forces, hospital and the: various ministries." 
Machado's salary of around $40,000 a year anti his expense al­lowance of $5,000 arc: part of the presidential office's budget, govern­ment sources say. 
Criticism was indeed strong "an average of seven press articles and cartoons a day for several months," Machado said. And there were jokes. A newspaper printed an article un­der the headline "The Right To Be Stupid," a clear reference to Mac­hado's hook "The Right To Be Intel­ligent." 
One reporter commc:ntetl that the world's most culturally advanced societies "never had an office like this one. Greece certainly tlidn't." 
5uch sniping has faded as the: min­istry's progrotms totke shape, Mac· hado sotid. "Now, there is respect 
The ministry's most ambitious program may he: the: "Learn To Think Project," which eventually will he: a n:quiretl course for all Vt·nezuclan stutlents. It consists of teaching school children "to think creatively, dialectically, to analyze and resolve problems," Machottlo sotitl. The: program emphasizes • showing children to consider "a variety of possible answers to ques­tions and problems. 
supervisee, admitted that there 1s "some problem with lime buildup in the women's locker rooms," but was convinced that such buildup "couldn't be responsible for her complaint." 
Kazmierzak said that the pool is kept in "excellent" condition by being "scrubbed down every Tues­day and Thursday and disinfectetl tlaily." He: emphasized the fact-that the: incident with Miss Lang marked "the first complaint in (his) 22 years" at the facility. "Hundretls of girls come through here every day anti no one ever complains," he said. 
Miss Lang, however, claimed that "most girls have complained about how hat! the: (locker room) contli· tions arc:," though they tlon't rc:gis­tt·r formal complaints. 
She atldc:d that, if no health 

problem is uncovc:rc:tl, "I hope, at k-ast, that the dirt problems will be: cleared up." 
Miss Lang expressed further op­

Easter bunnies repel to the nJmor that Hugh llef11er zl'i/1 feature "Girls of the Golden Dome" in the next issue of Playboy. 


Ji"YR"'~'BI"lr llrJifL 
MANDATORY MEETING 

MONDAY APRIL 20 lOpm LAFORTUNE LITTLE THEATRE ~ 




~-*' ~ 
_..,JUDICIAL STAFF... 
I I I 
Applications available at Student Union for all those interested in 
a. position on the Judicial Staff Aoril 16-21 
Any questions call Carol at 7835 or 6413 
~-1_6LCUI2.GJGS OJ: JloLY \,\7"k:.: I Jb.LY CUM.SDAY &' ~OA"" MORNING PRAYER • SACRED HEART CHURLH t l ' ~:OO,.M. SACRED HEART CHURCH (REV. RICHARD WARNER, C.S •. 7;1!;0 f,M BREEN-PHILLIPS HALL CHAPEL (REV. JOHN FITZGERALD, C.S.C.) J: ~0 '-""' ZAHM HALL CHAPEl (REV. THOMAS KING, C.S.C.) &:OO<M GRACE HALL CHAPEL (REV. FRANK FAIRBAIRN) ',f:;:':~~ . ~~~~::~~!A~:~: 0H:~~~~H~~~~C~R~ ~~ V~A:~ ~~A~~p::~A: ~S~~~ ~ (:,DOD f='IZ,.IDA..Y &·. "'O _. .o-1' -MORN 1NG PRAYER" SACRED HEART CHURCH ;}'.00'-"· SACRED HEART CHURCHAREV. PETER ROCCA, C.S.C.) 3'00 r.>l BREEN-PHILLIPS HALl CHAPEL (REV. JOHN FITZGERALD, C.S.C.) 3·. 00 P.M. MO~RISSEY HALL CHAPEL (REV. WILLIAM OOHAR, C.S.C•. ) 3:~0.><. KEENAN-STANFORD HALL CHAPEL (REV. RICHARD CONYERS, C.s.C.) 7: ~0 f. >I GRM:E HALL·CHAP!L (REV. FRANK FU11BAIRN) s:;b,.. .... MORNING PRAYER • SACRED HfART CHUPCH ji;OOP.H. SACRED HEART CHURCH (REV. OAVIO TYSON, C,S.C.) e:bor.11. BREEN-PHILLIPS HALL CHAPEL (REV. JOHN flTZGERALO, C.s.C.) g:~o r.M. GRACE HALL CHAPEL (REV. FRANK FAIRBAIRN) u:oo~"' DILLON HALL CHAPEl (ll[V. JAMES BURTCHAELL, C. S.C.) II:OOP.t-1. ZAHM HALL CHAPEl (REV. THOMAS KING, C.S.C.) GASCGIL SUNDAY 9:00AM. SACNED HEART CHURCH (REV. JAMES SHILTS, C.S.C.) iO'.!j()~. SACRED HEART CHURCH (REV. DANIEL JENKY, C.S.C.) 11..'.15' P.H SACRED HEART CHURCH (REV. JOHN FITZGERALD, c.s.c.) VFSPERS,., SACREO HrART CHURCH {REV. OANf£l JfNKV, C."S.C.) L  

makt· up 2S pncc:nt of the: total cost of the: rt·pair projel·t, he: said, with the: U.S. government supplying the: n·maining 7S percent. He: said he c:x· pects tht· !C:tlnal money to he "forthcoming." 
Akc Van Hyan, press secretary to Louisville: Mayor Williatn Stansbury, saitl c:Xt'l'Utives from Fiscal Court have: alrt·atly givt·n initial approval to the: agrtTmt·nt. lk added that tht· county is c:xpc:ctnl to "kgalize" its part .,f till' agrcemelll somc:t imc: within the next two Wl'Cks. 
(iovnnor .John Y. Brown signnl till' statt·'s part of tht· agrtTmt·nt March 51. 
Somt· offid;us haw said that a law· suit agotinst Halston Purina Co. to rc:c.:owr damagt·~ ti1r the: blasts will he filed by the: dty bdort· tht· end of tlw week. · 
Van Hyn and Carrell both intli· catt·d city attorneys could file: an ac­tion involving tht· st·wt·r blast d;unage yet thb Wt'l'k, hut neither would spedl}• the target of the suit 
ByJEFF HARRINGTON 
News Staff 
Citing "unsanitary contlitions" in the women's locker room at Rockne Mt·moriotl, NO senior Annette Lang registered a formal complaint against Rockne officials with tht· En· vironmc:ntal Health Division of St. 
joseph's County Health Department this pa.~t week. 
Miss Lang fiktl tht· complaint after contracting athktt·'s foot from, she: contends, atlverst· contlitions in the locker room ofthe: pool facility. 
"The: smell is terrihk, dirty rugs are strewn all over, and the water in the: sink tloc:sn't drain," she said,_ humorously adding that tht· "hugs have: hec:n known to tighten up their backstrokes a little: in the sink watcr," she said. 
--'fim Grt·t·nleaf, supervisor of water resourt·c:s t\1r the county ht·alth department, statc:tl that the complaint is currently under con-
By EDlJARDO GALLARDO 
Assodaktl Press Writer 
CARACAS, Vc:nc:zuc:la -Luis Al­ht·rto Machado is Venezuela's t·ahinc:t minister in charge: of Intel· ligencl' -not spying, mc:rc:ly brain· power. 
After two years as Minister for the: I>c:vc:lopmc:nt of Human Intel· llgt·ncc:, Machado fc:c:ls his I.Q.­hoosting job, once the: butt of cartoons and criticism, is gaining sc:rks support. 
"This is pt·acc:ful revolution, a dc:c:p revolution that will change so· cial, political and economic structures in Venezuc:la and, even­tually, around the: world," Machado said in an interview. 
It seems a formidable: task for a ministe~ with portfolio hut neither staff nor budget. 
"And I don't want them," said the 48-year-old, H!irvard-educated Mac­hado. 
His ministry consists of himself and a couple: ofsecretaries in a small office in an annex to the presidential palace. Stationery and other office 
The Observer -Continued from page 1 Thursday, April 16, 1981 -page 4 

... Taxes 

continuedfrom page 1 
"Taxes are much too high to deal in halfmeasures," Reagan said. 
Vice President George Bush, after a brief meeting with Reagan, said, "I think he looks better and bettereach day. I'm sure he probably doesn't feel that way because anytime you have a recovery like this, why, there are bound to be days'you feel better than others." 
Bush said Reagan was "on top of things, as he has been, even when he felt very, very bad; asks all the right questions; gives me the proper direction on certain things that we take up with him." 
From the president on down, ad­ministration officials gave no sign of retreat or compromise from Reagan's plan for a ,10 percent, acr~ss-the-board cut in tax rates each year for three years. 

The ultimate scoper, complete with binoculars, lurks above Rep. Barber Conable, R-N.Y., Howard Hall. (Photo by Rachel Blount) senior Republican on the commit­
tee, said the president will win less than a 10 percent tax cut from Congress and eventually will have to compromise. 
That was not the message from the White House yesterday. 
In a sales pitch to out-of-town editors and 'broadcasters, Bush asserted Reagan "is in no mood to 
Fluid Fun Canoe Rentol 

-~~ l'ie1)ar~~
$12.00 per c101oe 
Styling for men and fH~~MA FUS~ women who like to
includes lranspo to starting points on St. Joseph River 

,. 
compromise on this concept of rate cuts, 10 percent and three years." 
Asked if Reagan would veto a bill lacking those ingredients, Bush said, "Ifit's that clear a call, I would think the president woud probably do that. "But again I want to stop short ofsaying definitively what he would or wouldn't do." 

Corby's 
continuedfrom page 1 
mented on the difficulty ofdetecting and halting underage drinking. 
"In the real world, (underage drinkers) will, ifthey choose, find a way to procure and drink beer," he declared in a two page letter to the ABC. "It is damn near impossible to be 100 percent accurate" in detect· ing false IDs. 
Masters claimed that "nobody wants to see Corby's lose their license. The fact is, there is a problem with minors in the tavern. We simply want Corby's to clean up its act." 
The January 30, 1981 arrests of eight SMC 5tudents, although not related ,to this year's hearings, received considerable attention at yesterday's meeting. Masters at­tempted to introduce depositions into the record from the women which state that their IDs were not checked upon entering the bar. 
The depositions, which are part of the evidence in an Indianapolis hearing on the incident, were not admitted because the women were not available for testimony. 
Corby's still faces the Indianapolis hearing on the matter. Originally slated for April 6, it was postponed when the,eight girls, on-the advice of their attorney, did not respond to subpoenas to appear. 

Return Coupon To: 
DIRECTOR OF THE SUMMER SESSION IONA COLLEGE 715 NORTH AVENUE, NEW ROCHELLE, N.Y. 10801 Please send me fu~ther information about SUMMER AT IONA COLLEGE FOR CREDITAND FUN! NAME_____________________________________________ 
ADDRESS__~--------------------------------------­
1 ' CITY________________--=----­TELEPHONE STATE__ZIP j
L--------------------------------------------­
The Observer Thursday, April 16, 1981 -page 5 
Quayle speaks to S B businessmen on taxes 
By DAN LEDUC 
Nt•ws Stuff 
Senator Dan Quayle yesterday told the South Bend Small Busines­sman's Association that the Reagan administration is "prepared to go to the mat" in ddense of th~· Kemp­Roth tax-cut proposal. 
The proposal is tax-cut package whkh includes a three-year to per­l"t•nttax rate cut for individuals. 
Quayle, a member of the Senate Budget Committee, said the Senate is considering other tax-cut mt·asurt·s whkh includt•: --repealing tht· so-called "Marriage Tax" pt·nalty. --inneases in the exemp­tion on intnest earned in saving ac­nlunts --incrt·ast·s in the standard <kduction --reduction.~ in tht· tax rate~ on investment int·ome. 
"It is vital to have economic growth in this country., 
Quaylt-saic.J peoplt-earning be­tween S I S,OOO anc.J S60,000 per yc:ar pay two-thirds of the taXl'S paic.J to the h·c.Jeral govt·rnment. "If tax rates are not reduced," Quayle daimt·d. "taxes collected by the l'cdcral government will increase from the prest·nt S5H5 billion to over S1.1 trillion by 19H5. 
Wt· arc simply over-taxed and we must have tax reduction," he said. "Tht·rt· is a consensus in Congress this year rcdun· taxes -the qucs· lion is how much and where. 
"It is vital to have economic growth in this country," the st·nator saic.J. Quayle wants to link tax­redul"tion anc.J spt·nding reduction. "Tht· two must go togctht·r," he said. "They must be done simultaneous­ly." 
While it is dillkult to predkt future spt·nding, Quayle is con­vint-cd th;u by llJl-1-t, "we will hve the political will and couragt· to cut spt·nding." The threc-yc:ar plan givcs Congress a course of anion to cut spending. ht· said. 
<.}uaylc admillt'd the admnistra­tion's proposed increases in defense ~pt·nc.Jing art· politically dangt'fous. "It's t•asicr to spend money on soda! program~." he said. 
But tht· senator believes defense: spt·nding must be incrcased and thinks tlw the burdt·n ofdefense cx­pt·nditun·s must be shared with NATO. "For example, .Japan is only spending onc percent of its national budget on ddense," he said. "They're putting tht· rest into tech­nology and bringing that technology Into this country. That isn't going to happen anymore." 
The remark drew an t·nthusiastic response from the South Bend businessmen. 
Quayle said there has been a tremendous change In attitude among many people these last 12 months. "Not too many people said we had to have tax cuts then, but now there arc not too many people who say we don't need tax cuts -so we've made progress." 
He admitted some compromise will be necessary -the legislative demands it. "I'm a realist," he said, "but I hope it (the compromise) 
r-aiYu.;;d-1 
:Methodist Church t t 17646 aeveland Road : tEaster Sunday Services:t t 7:30 am t
t 9:15am ND-SMC 10:30 am t 

~_l)~~~W!L~O~~ 

won't be a three-year plan." 
"The House has complained about the proposed cuts," the senator continued, "but they've done very , little to offer any al­ternatives. I'm convinced, however, that at a given time the leadership in the House will work with the ad­ministration to produce the tax bill that will be supported and be productive for the country." 
While in South Bend, Quayle met with area CETA directors concerned with the proposed cuts. He said he would be taking a special interest in the CETA program because of his membership on the Senate sub­committee on labor productivity. by Rachel Blount) 





You told her you have your own place. Now you have to teD your roommates. 
You've been trying to get to know her better since the be!,rinning of the tem1. And when she mentioned how hard it is to study in the dom1, you said, "My place is nice and quiet. Come on over and study with flle:' 
Your roonunates weren't very happy about it. But after a little persuading they decided the double feature at the Bijou might be worth seeing. 
They're pretty special friends. And they deserve a special "Thanks:· So, tonight, let it be Liiwenhriiu. 
Lowenbriio.Here's to gq!!!!J!:!~!~!:anyMIIwaukee. Wisconsin, 
Thursday, April 16, 1981 -page 6



Editorials
' 

P.O. Box Q 

Fr. Griffin losing sight ofduties? 
Dear Editor: 
Every issue of Notre Dame Magazine contains something of­fensive to those of us who still believe without doubting all Church teachings. The article in the February issue entitled "A True Confession" by Fr. Robert Griffin, the University chaplain, is not only offensive but a source of serious scandal. 
Fr. Griffin said he heard the con­
fession of a 23-year-old youth in 
New York several years ago who 
told him he was a homosexual, a 
declaration Fr. Griffin said he al­
ways found saddening. Docs that 
mean that Fr. Griffin hears the con­
fessions ofhomosexuals regularly? 
Father Griffin seems to have lost sight of what the function of a Catholic priest is. He had a clear duty as a priest to tell the young man that the hideous sin he was committing regularly was a mortal sin for which he could be eternally damned and that it was the sin which brought about the destruc­tion ofSodom. 
By revealing his own dereliction in the alumni magazine, Fr. Griffin gave aid and comfort to the homosexuals and lc:sbians on the campus who an informed source told me plan to form a club oftheir own, as homosexuals and lesbians have done at Catholic University and Georgetown. 
I think concerned alumni and students should form a Blue Army chapter at Notre Dame and promote devotion to the Rosary ant.l Brown scapular. The Blue Army, Washington, N.J., will fur­nish details. 
William H. Smullen Class of1935 Denville, Newjersey 

Rock locker 
unhealthy for women 
Dear Editor: 
I'm addressing this letter to all the women at Notre Dame who are concerned about possible unequal and "unhealthy" treatment here. 
the same problem, as do many of her friends. Unfortunately, the situation could be much more serious than just fungal growth; a friend of mine who suffers form staph infection on her face believes she contracted it at the Rock. (Swimming regularly had been the only change in her daily routine.) 
Three very obvious indications about the sanitary condition ofthe locker room are immediately ob­sc:rvable. First, the smell is ex­tremely powc:rful and noxious. Secondly, rugs strewn about everywherc: are wonderful, per­manent growth centers for fungi and bacteria. And thirdly, the sink in the bathroom doesn't drain at all. Bugs have been known to tighten up on their backstrokes in this mini Rockne pool. 
Coach Fallon, the buildingdirec­tor of the Rockne Memorial, told me that the very poor condition of the women's locker room had not been. brought to his attention before. He was also rat,her skepti­cal about the potential health hazard there, since I was the only girl who had ever complained about foot problems. I strongly urge all women who are disgusted by the dirty, smelly conditions of the locker room, and particularly all who are possibly suffering from foot or skin problems contracted there, to call in your complaints to Coach Fallon. 
The filthy situation can and should be cleaned up. The men's locker room is in good condition, why isn't ours? Brother Louis, after suggesting that I had contracted Athlete's foot in he dormitory room I've lived in for seven months, formulated his solution: "That's your problem. There's only one thing for you to do: don't use the pool." I would hope that a more rational and appropriate solution to the unhealthy situation could be found. Let's call in to help them find it. 
Annette Lang Breen-Phillips Hall 
NDjokes mostlyfunny 
Dear Editor: 
As a regular subscriber to The Observer, !look forward to receiv­
ing each issue, and I particularly items among chuckles was not so wise well done. In fact, I think he enjoyed an article by Mark Ferron humorous. It went: ought to be in Hollywood...the entitled "ND'SMC Jokebook" Question: What do you call a walk would do him good. (March 13). pretty girl at Notre Dame? 
However, being a parent of a Answer: Visitor. jimmy Gambacorta female Domer, I felt one of the Mark's okebook bit was other-New Castle, De/a. 

Reagan info flo-w slo-wing 
WASHINGTON -Obtaining in­been enormously helpful in assist­formation from the federal govern­ing reporters to understand U.S. 
Maxwell Glen 

ment has never been easy. The foreign policy. But last week CIA process can be as fruitless as asking Director William ). Casey ended and Cody ltemer out the most popular cheerleader briefings, claiming his analysts on a Friday night. were already too busy. 
Here and Now 
Routinely, when we need There has also been a similar answers from public information reduction in public information Cabinet, and imposing conflicting
officers they're out to lunch. And it activity at other agencies. For ex­standards of behavior which
doesn't matter whether it's 11 a.m. ample, the Environmental Protec­means that, whatever he does, he
or 3p.m. tion Agency's public information cannot escape unfavorable judg­
If they're not out to lunch, staff will soon be cut from 50 to 17 ment."
they're invariably in a meeting. officers. A more modest reduction The White House denies paying
And when you ask when the has already occurred at the Depart­any attention to Entman's work but
meeting will end, an impatient ment ofEnergy. 

it's hard to tell differently fromsecretary will say, "I'm not sure... "Information capacity at the their recent behavior. ( Entman
can 'Mr. Stretchtime' call you Department ofEnergy is less today says Edwin Meese, coupselor to
back?" than at any time since the 1973 the president, has read his work).
We've been waiting to hear from Arab oil embargo," said one former Most reporters know that the
some public officials for months, department employee. "This ad­Reaganites mistrust the press and
and in some cases, we've con­ministration wants the citizens to even each oher. But we think the
sidered alerting the Missing Per­rely on private industry for its in­administration's clamming up is
sons Bureau. formation on energy choices." more a product of its own incom­
A government spokesman Withholding information from petence than any White Houseoccasionally does return a call. He the public is serious business. Only directive.
usually offers the same helpless several weeks ago Energy "The administration just doesn'tresponse: ''I'll check on it and call Secretary James E. Edwards con­know what it's doing in manyyou right back." Never let a public fjscated a department1mblication areas," said -a former assistantofficial say that, because that's sure that contained an article wih un­secretary who has served in the
to be the last time you ever hear favorable comments about the past five administrations. "What's
from him. nuclear power industry. our policy toward the Soviet Uni 
Several recent steps by the No one is exactly sure why the on? I don't think we have one...the
Reagan administration have made Reaganites are limiting the in­guy who took my place didn't
it increasingly more difficult for formation flow. Some reporters know anything about public in­
anyone to get the facts. Some contend the White House has formation. He came into my office
reporters suspect the Reagan ad­taken the advice ofRobert Entman, and wanted to know one thing:
ministration of deliberately clam­a Duke University professor. He what was the limit of my personal
ming up on information. discourages the president and his expense account?"
At the White House, national staff from "personal mingling with Before it gets into too much
security advisor Richard V. Allen journalists" and he recommends trouble, the Reagan administrationwon't let reporters talk to his staff. keeping the White House press had better loosen its tight informa­The new policy came about a office "in the dark." 
tion policy. Like it or not, the pressmonth back after one staffmember Such steps are necessary, warns has a responsibility to report whatpredicted war unless the Soviet Entman in the Center for Contem­any administration is up to, and
Union gave up communism. porary Studies' book The Imperial will eventually discover whatever
Nowadays, Allen is the sole spokes­Media. In the book Entman claims the White House wants to hide.
man for the National Security the media confuse "the president's The more restrictive the ad­
Council. responsiveness to their demands ministration becomes, the less
Information services at the wth the sensitivity to the public in­well off it will be. If reporters lack
Central Intelligence Agency have terests, inhibiting private negotia­access to the truth, they'll envision
been reduced, too. Since the late tions between the president and the worst scenario. And it's not
1950s, the intelligence agency has other national leaders, particularly nice to fool reporters.
provided reporters wih off-the­those in Congress; complicating record briefings on international executive management by 
Flt'ld Newspaper Syndicate

trouble spots. These sessions have magnifying conflict within the 
The particular condition I'd like to 
draw  your  attention  to  is  the  
women's  locker  room  at  the  
Rockne :-.\cmorial.  

On Apr. 3, I began swimming daily at thc: Rock. After four days of consecutive use of the facilities. I contracted athktc:'s foot. Sinn during that time I had not walkc< barc:tiJOt anywhere else, and since had takl·n my showers exclusively at the Rock, I'm certain I picked up the fungi in the locker room. 
After talking with several other people who use the locker room, I've discovered that my situation is not at all unique. One girl who swims daily at the Rock suffers continuously from athlete's foot. Another person who uses the lock­er room to dress for basketball has 


Doonesbury 
He?£ 'f{X! ~ 7HANI<5 1-ERY 
SIR. DtX1R1JCW MUCH. 7C/..L. M&, AN/J tulllfl< SON, /JO YOU tV­
ON 7H& RIJCK$ 13R li5TEN 70 
\ NEtu tuAV8 
M~!c?, 
Garry Trudeau 
7H81'!<8 ~8/G UP IN 80SION. MYallfeANO I AI?£ 50fmJ{) fF PI& Gl3T SUCH A KICI<. 01/TOF P/ATCH!N6  YOU /)(}'! \  tum, &XC£PTFOR. tuHCN SH& 5P/75 ON l/5. 8IfTI UNDER.­5TAN/J THAT's PAIU CFTH&ACT.  
H&R P£RFORM!  
"  

Editorial Board and Department Managers



==Ibe Obse~er== 
Editor-in-Cbief.........................................john McGrath SMC Executive Editor ..................... Mary Agnes Carey 
Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 _ 
SMC News Editor ................. , .............. Cathy Domanico 
The Observer is an independent newspaper published by rhe srudenrs of rhe Executi1•e News Editor ..............................Lynne Daley Pboto Edttor...................................................john Macor University of Notre Dame du La_c and Saint Mary's Colle~e. lr does nor necessanl~ News Editor .. : .......................................... Tim Vercellotti reflect the policies of the admm1strauon _of enher mstttut1on. The news 1s reported Neu•s Editor..................................................)ohn Higgins Business Manager ....................................Rich Coppola as accurately and as objectively as poss1ble. Eduonals represenr rhe op1n1on of a Senior Copy Editor ................. ...... Mary Fran Callahan 
Jlanaging Editor......................................Tom)ackman 
Control/er....................................................... .)oe Mulftur Advertising Manager .................... -................Mark Ellis 
Sports Editor ............................ : ............ Michael Ortman Features Editor..........................................Rick Hermida
majority of the Editorial Board. _Commentanes, opm1ons, and letters are rhe v1ews 
Production Manager ...................Ryan Ver Berkmoes 
of their aulhors. Column space 1s avatlable to all members of the communuy. and 
Circulation Manager ........................Tom MacLennan
rhe free expression of varying opinions on campus. through letters. 1s encouraged. 
_j 




eatures An Easter dogma 
y dog, Darby O'Gill II, has fallen in love with the 
Easter Hunny. Ont· night about a week ago, ncar nt· husht·s down hy tht· Grotto. Darby met this stupid k rahhit out on a sl:ampcr. "Well, Mr. Bunny," I mght, "or Ms. Bunny, as tht· l:asc may he, you'd better lVC in a hurry, If you want to live to sec Easter." The ·aturc just froze there, while Darby sniffed it from the 
·of Its tail to the tips of its t·ars. Finally, when nose 
laid against twitching nose. the rabbit, tiring of in­
. Robed Griffin 
Letters To A Lonely God 
acy, streaked for its hole. My dog followed, ·dIn his sdf-assurancc like a sensitive freshman. c stood over the holt-, whimpering for the rabbit to -,.a,nn•:·:or, until I dragged him home on the end of a 
Now, several times an t·vt·ning, he wants to play the door Johnnie, waitint.: at that rabbit holt-for a ly cottontail to come out and play with him. "Stick to your own kind," I advise him in vain. "You 
·ouldn't handk tht· problems ofmixed mating. Think of the puppies would look like if they had her cars. nt· the hunch hack at tht· puppy farm, playing 
iut·ss Who's Coming to Dinner?." Tht• two of them have different value systt·ms, or at I think they should. l{ahhit1> arc a fertility symbol. I 
ouldn't allow my dog to he a fertility symbol, whether ·wanted to bt· or not. An annual visit to the stud fitrm as mut·h !Crtility as l>arhy will ever st•c; on the other hand, ht· gt·ts a minimum of flfty dollars a trick. I've nt·vt·r ht·anl ofanyone paying stud fees to Peter Rabbit. Darby O'Gill's problem is that he doesn't know h<:'s 
itti.·n·nt from woodland creatures. If he knew they wt•rt· diffcrt·nt, why would he try to make love to them? I think that if they an: lilllr-t(JOtcd and furry, he doesn't distinguish them from dogs. Therefore: rabbits, if not watdwd, will steal your hones. Squirrds, when your hal:k is turned, will water your posts for you. Cats, if not chased, will steal your place by the fire. 
Adog, getting lont·somc, will try to cross bridges. I'm always saying, "Darby, you can't climb that tree," or "Darby, -that hole doesn't belong to you." He's always giving me looks of reproach that ask me to leave him alone with creatures he's trying to get comfortable with. 
Now Darby's in love with the Easter Bunny. The Bun­ny has her Easter duty to do, hut she can't leave her hole ifl let my dog loost·. If he found the eggs, he would think tht·y were his, and he would ruin Easter for the children. 
Maybe we ruin our pets in domesticating them. Eas­ter t•ggs arc older than Easter, and Easter Bunnies arc older than their eggs. Once upon a time, they say, when the world was young, there lived a god of all-nature whose name was Pan, and both man and beast served him as worshippers. Pan, liking rabbits a great deal, gave them a special obligation: "Eggs are my gift to children," he said, "when the dark winter has ended. I'm putting you rabbits in charge ofdelivering eggs to them as a sign ofthe new life ofspring." 
One day, after the world had changed from heiqg young to middle agt·d, in the woodlands and fields, a lament was heard: the great god Pan is dead. Christ had been horn, and as He died on the cross, when the veil of the temple was split, all of the lesser gods faded before Him. Wild creatures serving i'an, however, never heard the voice; sinless as they were, they did not need the lordship of Christ, so they continued to serve Pan as their appropriate deity. Only men, being sinners, needt:d the grace of Christ to save them. Some beasts, like Darby, becoming domesticated, got separated from tht· fellowship of faith with wild crcatutcs who serve Pan as tht'ir natural lord. No longer close to wild creatures, they lack any sense ofthe natural order ofthe world by which children celebrate springtimt· with the gift oft·ggs from the Easter Bunny. 
Darby, having a faith problem, sees the Easter Bunny only as a love object. He could he assisting fainting robins to their nests, if he were not a st·cularized canine, ignorant of the precepts of his departed god. He lacks the instinct to place duty before passion; to get him to behave ethically, he must he led on a leash. llc cares not a fig about ancient dispcnsaions, because he's in love with a creature that marches to the primaeval heat of a different drummer, whose credentials ofexcellence arc unrcgistt·rahle with the American Kennel Club. Sevt~ral tirnt·s a night I must drag him horne from tht· hushes ncar the Grotto. Othcrwisc.,.thc pagan side of Easter could not he celebrated this year. 
Thursday, April16, 1981 -page 7 


1Conference at One': Not this titne around 
E
very once in a while, a play takes to the stage as a comedy hut 
instead leaves the audience rather disturbed. Such is the case in 
The Conference at One, a play which debuted last Sunday and Monday 
evenings at the Nazz. This play, written by Washington-based 
playwright Alonzo D. Lemont Jr., had never been produced on a stage 
before. Freshman.John Krornkowski directed the produt·tion well; the 
play's taults then lie solely with the author. 
Though full of jokes and light humor, the play does strike a frighten­
ing nerve. Conference is a simple play; it is simply a business meeting 
with the five actors (John Borkowski, Torn Griffin, Tim liartigan, Paul 
Rodes and John Thompson) portraying three-piece-suited corporate 
tycoons. These people compartmentalize life -everything from In­
dians' land claims to Gloria Vanderbilt jeans -into neat, tidy statistics 
which translate into dollar amounts. Ironically, the characters them­
selves arc all copies of one another -Bobs, John!>, Jims and the like, 
and their insensitivity to life carries over to their personas, for they arc 
all indispensable cogs in their own corporate machine. 
Anything that does not translate into dollar signs, the conference 
leader, Mr. Moderator dismisses with either a "F---'em" or a "S---'em." 
He belabors his philosophy once it is quite clear and simply fills the 
dialogue with unncccc1>sary obscenities. 
At times, the humor in the play is taken to extremes, disgusting ones 
at that. The cxccutl' <·~get the idt·a of exhuming the bodies of Elvis 
Presley and Marilyn o1o·1mc and making a movie with the corpses 
since such freakish n ..,·:a! is guaranteed to sell. Though the point of 
corporate insen..,itivil. "· iJlu,-;trated, death is not funny and the 
macabre "humor" is gn t:'squc. 
The play, however, ha~ the potential of being taken on a number of 
levels. On one level, it is a clever, but sometimes rather cxtn·mc satire 
on corporate execs who wear dollar sign~ on their eyes like contac 
lenses. On a deeper level, the play raises questions about how to func­
tion within a system. The cntrc:prl'lll'urs contend they're elitists and 
we arc: the cogs turning gears in their machine in everything we do ­
from the cornflakes we cat to the jeans we wear. In this respect, the 
play is disturbing. 

For the question arises: arc we really controlkd hy a couple of 
dozen tycoons who choose the food we will cat, the dothcs we will 
wear, the hooks we will n·ad, the movies we will sec? lfthe play were 
true comedy, such a philosophical question should not linger with the 
audience. ' 
Mary Fran Callahan 




For British music , the 'Ska's' the limit 

S
ka? What is that? you ask. Well, ~ka is a typt· 
of dance nntsk which wa~ quill' popular in 
the mid-I '>60s. In thc pnlCc!>..,, it wa!> a dirccr 
inflllt'lll't' on the style of musk known as 
rt'ggal·, which cvcnwally bct·ame more 
popular than ...b. 
By tht· late 1970~. howcvn, British youth looking for dann· mu!>ic without the insanity and rcpt·t it ion of till' disco music of that period found a "new" alternative in ska, and a revival was horn. Over tht· past two years, ska musk has consistently ht·cn reaching the Top Tt·n of tht· British charts. 
llowcvcr, it has yet to enjoy similar success in Amcrka. Aprimary reason is the continuing shrinkagt· in the play lists of the most popular album-oriented stations. Because they are primarily concerned with ratings rather than music, they take no chances; they seldom play records by new acts anymore. And, since hit songs often cross over from FM to AM, none: of this makes it to the Top 40 stations, either. 
But it should; that's the sad thing about it. Take: the album Dance Craze, for example. This movie: soundtrack features ovc:r fifty minutes of music by the biggest and best British ska hands, recorded live. On this album can be found songs performed hy The Specials (probably the best-known and certainly the most successful ska group, both in Britain and the U.S.), The Sclecter, The English Heat (whose tlrst album, released last year, rcceivt·d almost universal rave rt~vicws), Bad Manners, Madness, and The Bodysnatchcrs...a vcritahlt-Who's Who of today's ska scene. 
Dance Craze is an exciting album, bursting with energy which is sddom generated by any of the hig-namc hands anymore, either live or in the studio. Almost as an afterthought it serves a!> an cxn·llcnt introduction to tht· at­mosphere, sounll!>, and groups which dominatt• today's British charts. For that reason alone, it should be in every rock fan's collection. 
If you find yuurselflikingJJance Craze, as I did, you will want to check out sornt· efforts by these hands whi<:h arc not on that album. One of these is the current album hy The ~clcctcr, their second, Celebmte lhl!' Bullet. The Sclcctcr, like the currently-popular hands Blondit-and The Prctl·ndcrs, features a fl-rnalc vocalist (Deborah Harry and Chrissie Hynde, respectively). However, unlike either band, they do not feature her exclusively. ·The load oflead vocals is distributed somewhat ClJUally among Pauline Brown and Nco! Davies, the latter of whom was a charter member of The Selccter when they recorded an instrumental, "The Selcctcr," which was the B-sidc of the first single released on the Specials' 2-Tone Records label in 1979. 
Writing chores arc somewhat dominated by Davies, hut three. of the other hand mem­bers get thl'ir licks in as well. This makes for always interesting songs. A problem with many dance records is that many of the songs sound too similar, which makes them easy to dance to, hut tedious to t;s/en to. Not so with Celehrate the Bullet. This is another excellent album, even hcttt·r overall than Dance Craze. .md also deserving of success which it will probably never st·e. 
A somewhat unrelated, yet related, current release is hy a new British band called Span­dau Ballet. Entitlcdjourneys to Glory, upon 
Spandau Ballet 
its rclcasc in Britain it ddnncd at number 
seven on the ll.K. charts. This group draws 
upon ska and expands its houndaries, throw­
ing in disco, Nt·w Wavt·, and l'Vt'n latc·'60s 
psychedelia. The only pmhlcm is that it 
dot'l>ll't work very uficn. 
The best song on the album is its first. "To Cut a Long Story Short." It reached tht· top live in England long before the album came out. It combines a ~ka·influt·ntTd organ. a "Whip Jt". influenced back heat, and detached, almost 
Jim Morrison-csque voctls -an unlikdy mix 
which dominates the entire album and works 
best here. 
This is only Spandau Ballet's first album; maybe with time they can refine their sound to make it sound really unique instead of merely imitative. 
In conclusion, these three new rdcascs, the Dance Craze soundtrack, The Sdcncr's Celebrate the Bullet, and (to a lesser t•xtcnt) Spandau Ballet's journeys to Glory arc reflective ofthe new sounds which arc swn·p· ing the British airwaves. If I had any say in the matter, they would he doing the same to the American. The two pure ska records arc t·arly contenders for Top-Ten-of-the-Year honors, and the third, despite its flaws, is better than most AM music today. 

Tim Neely


r • 

-~---------------------------------------------------------­
The Observer -~--c-~-~-='-==' ==~-~-----·--­
--~=~==~-===== 

Thursday, April 16, 1981 --page 8






Weekend 
Campus 
•12: 
15 p.m. -lenten mass, fr. griffin, Iafortune rathskdlar, all are welcome. 

• 
3 p.m. -lecture, "on his works, on her weaves," artist jack olson and weaver mahoob shahzaman. annenberg auditorium. 

• 
3:30 p.m. lecture, "cell mapping and a method ofglobal analysis for non-linear dynami­cal systems." prof c.s. hsu, u. calif. herkley. 303 cushing. 

•4:20 
p.m. -physics collo­quium, "path integral approach to the nuclear many-body problem." dr. john blaizot, u. of 


ill. I I H nieuwland. 
•dinner 
-daisy sale, dining halls ( nd and smc) an tostal committee 

•6:30 
p.m. lecture in spanish. ''el gn:co," jose garcon, culver military academy. car­roll hall ( smc ). spons: dept. of languages. 

•7.10 
p.m. film, "the robe,"spons: nd film club, engr. aud., $1. 

•7 
p.m. -christian concert, terry talbot, spiritual rock ofnd. library auditorium. 

•7:30 
p.m. lecture, "imageahility and urban plan­ning in renaissance ferrara," prof. charles rosenburg, room 202 architecture building. 

•8 
p.m. -theatre, "equus," dir. by brian wolfe, wash. hall, spons: dept. of comm. and theatre. 


'Lookingfor Mr. Goodbar' 
A Mr. Goodbar candy wrapper has been hidden somewhere on the ND­SMC campus. Clues to its exact loca­tion shall appear in The Observer today and next week in this space. · The first person to bring the wrap­per to the Student Activities office, 
I st floor LaFortune will he the win­ner. You must have possession ofthe wrapper in order to win. 
everyone is elighle except AnTos­tal committee members and Ob­semer staff The prize is dinner for two at the Moonraker. 
TODAYSCLUE 
It's under the Dome. 

ArtDeparlmf!nt sets display 
The University ·of Notre Dame art department is offering its currently enrolled students in the studio arts (both undergraduate and graduate) a chance to display their works in an annual student exhibition scheduled for April 26, 1981, in the Snite Museum's, O'Shaughnessy Gallery. 
Each student can submit up to four works in any medium. All entries must he in O'Shaughnessy Gallery by noon of Tuesday, April 21, so as to he eligible for the jurying which will begin at I p.m. that same day. A limited number ofhonors will be awarded in areas yet to he determined. The show will officially 
open to the public at a reception in O'Shaughnessy Gallery on Sunday, April26, from 1-4 p.m. 

Dr.James Barr 
Dr. james Barr, professor of Hebrew at Oxford University, England, will discuss Fundamen­talism during a public talk at 8 p.m. Wednesday (April 22) in the Galvin Life Science Building Auditorium. The program is sponsored by the Theology Deepartment. 


Molarity 
IN TI·H5 VER6/0N, A 
PLAYER G£T5 1H£ NA~E OF Ali\F!G£'1 6TIJD£Nr WHO H£ HA5 TlJ 6TALK AND 
A5K FOR A POLLAF? B£F'ORE THE tARGET A6KS HIM FOR At>OLI...AR 

THIS k/AY WENDT ONLY ~£ T Rll? OF= THOSE "PFfiGHT£NING" DART6UN5 
WE ALSO RAl5E HONEY FOR Til£" 
UNf\JERjJT'( 
IGU~SI'LL TRY~EOF THATY~~LDW 


STUFF... 

ACROSS 22 Fable 1 Involuntary writer 
muscle 23 Sniggler 
spasms 24 Wise old 5 Cherish counselor 10 Mountain 26 Takeout, 


The Daily Crossword 

gap in printing 14 Part 28 Bowling of QED game 15 Edible 32 Fast plane 
fungus 35 Require 16 Discharge 37-hand 17 Roman (close by) 
emperor 38 Fishing 
18 Violin item maker of 40 Valises Cremona 42 Space 
19 Enameled letters 
metalware 43 Muscle pain 71 Robt.-monarch 
20 Brideof reliever 
Prince 45 Trudge Charming 47 Amt. 
Yesterday's Puzzle Solved: 
4/16/81

©1981 by Chicago Tribune-N.Y. News Synd. Inc. All Rights Reserved 



Fuii BIKES 
16533 Cleveland 
at Grape Road 


271·1121 



FIRST & FOREMOST 
Michael Molinelli 
48 Things that 13 Phase 
attract 21 Songbird 50 Godofwar 22 First-class 52 Dismal 25 Certain 54 Capital muscle 
of Ghana 27 Musical 58 Vote in direction 61 Legendary 29 Baghdad's 
hero land 63 Of flying 30 Cartoonist 64 Impassive Thomas 65 A Gardner 31 Remain 66 Spinnaker 32 Fake 67 Bridal path 33 Wading bird 68 Shopping 34 Chinese 
arcade society 69 Corner 36 Immerse 70 Skins 39 Merry 
41 Theater 
DOWN program 1 Taut 44 Breton 2 Goddesl:o 46 School VIP 
of peace 49 Military 3 Channing or raid 
Lawrence 51 Plot 4 Packed 53 Large deer 5 Oriental 55 Atoll 
nurse substance 6 Bully 56 Esther 7 Speak of TV 8 Take to the 57 An Astaire 
lab again 58 Orient 9 Wallach or 59 Shakespear­Whitney ean king 10 Never-Never 60 Eastern Land youth lake 
11 Hebrew 62 Decorates prophet a cake 12 Storage bin 64 Tree fluid 


Summer Storage Master Mini Warehouses Special Rates 
eVERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS 
eAPPROXIMATELY 21!2 MILES NORTH 
eMICHIGAN STATE LINE ON U.S. 31 N 
e GATES OPEN ALL DAY SUNDAY AND EVERYDAY 

683-1959 

The Observer Thursday, April 16, 1981 -page 9 r 
etters approach20th win 
sudden surge: in success these past haired coach led Notre Dame pao;t three years. "My success could be the 200-win plateau, to an unbeaten Sports Wrlti'TS hecausc of more scholarships, hut I season ( 14-0 ), and tied Tulane for rt·ally think it's the guys on the team. the national championship. 
Tennis coach Tom Fallon, the man "In tht· past I've had all-americans, Fallon has also steered the Irish to with more lifetime wins than any and guys that wert· better than most five Eastern Collegiate Champion­active Notre Dame 1.:oach in any of the players I have now. But this ships ( 1966, 1967, 1968, 1976, 
sport with :\IH, is one: win away from team is a team. There is a great deal 19HO ), two perfect seasons ( 1959, his third-straight 20-win season. of camaraderie between them, and 1966) and only two losing seasons. "It's rt·ally not rye," claims the tht·y rc:ally work wdl togc:ther. Looking back, the Irish mentor is 
modc:st Fallon. "It's the: school. "Also, wt· have more depth than in surprised at his longetivity. "I C:J1Tie Notre Damt· attracts the: athlt:tt' that previous years, and a win at sixth to Notre Dame_ in I95 I, and I wants to play tc:nnis, hut also wants singles counts as much as a win at thought I'd stay a couple ofyears and 
to work hard in school. Our tennis first singles." move on. I wa~ the wrestling coach program is not much difft·rent from Now in his 25th season, Fallon has and Charlie Samson was the tennis otht-r schools, hut our academic done just about everything a tennis coach. In 1954, Charlie went to program is." coach could hope to do. In his third Texas A&M, and I became tht· coach. 
Fallon "hlamc:s." the: team for their year at the hdm ( 1959 ), the ivory-I never imagined I'd he here this long or have this ~uch success." Fallon's greatest talent is his han­dling of his players. Descrihing how
Field expands for women's 
he sees his role, Fallon says "as a coach I really can't teach them things. By now, aftt-r playing for so


bookstore tourney 


long, they have a set game. I can only Tennis coach Tom Fallon is looking for his third crmseculir'e 20­

correct some minor a'>pccts of their win season. (Photo by Rachel Bloutll) 
By KELLY SULLIVAN that they are'tlot on any other team. 
game. What I can do is create an at­

Sports Wrlti'r Squads may list only one varsity 
mosphere that allows them to grow.

hao;kethall player on their roster. 
This means judicious use of chat­

An Tostal's third annual women's There is no limit on athktcs from 
After your lastexam,­
lange matches -not to overdue, or 

bookstore haskethall tournament other sports, however. 
put too much pressure on them. 

whattoughquestions
will get underway next Tuesday, Games will not he officiated until 
"In this atmosphere, they develop

April 21, according to women's the quattt·rfinals begin. All contests 
camaraderie and karn to he a team. 

will you stillbefacing?
commisioner Jean <irao;so, with will he played on the Stepan Courts, 
Also, incoming freshman never gt·t 

games schedulc:d every day that except the semi-finals and finals, 
scholarships. They come to Notre 

wt·ek until the finals on Sunday, which will take place behind the 
Dame because they want to be here. Apri126. 
bookstore and the ACC, respective­
They have to prove they want to
ly.

Grao;so, a sc>phomore from Lewis 
play tennis before they get aid. This llall, and assistant commisiont·r Shari Matvey, who last year led 
avoids jealousy and makes the guyDave Ross, a sophomore rt·siding in 
her team, B.].'s Blowoffs, t(> the 
feel that he has really earned it." Kt·t·nan, st·hedukd 40 hookstore Bookstore title, is one of nine 
Last weekend at the Bowlingentries this year, a ren>rd number women basketball players compet­

Green Quadrangular, the Irish 

for the women's tournament. ing in the An Tostal tournament. 
breezed through their three 

"Wt· wt·re going to limit tht· num­Also oartidpating is women's bao;­
matches, knocking off Akron S-0,

hn to 3.2," explained <irao;so, "hut kethall coach Mary DiStanislao. 
Northern Illinois 6-0 and Bowling

that· sn·ms to he lots oft·nthusiao;m Mary D.'s club, Your Mother, must 
Green H-1. The Akron and Northern 

this yt·ar, so we: made a coupk more be considered the pre-tourney 
Illinois matchc:s were cut short by

hrat·kt·ts." favorite. Playing for the squad is DiS­
rain, and the Bowling Green match 

Rules for the womt·n's tourna­tanislao's assitant coach Mary 
was played indoors. llll'nt li>llow along the lines of the Murphy. A four-year starter for Mary 
This Sjlturday the Irish will host nll·n's lt-agut·. The game is to 21 bas­D. at Northwt·stern, Murphy was a 
Michigarl State at Courtnt·y Tennis kets, ami tht· winning margin must lit nalist for the 19HO Wade Trophy 

Ct·nter starting at I p.m. "We heat 

ht· hy two. The live plyers who start presented annally to the top 
them 6-2 last year," says Fallon, "hut 

till' game must 11nish it, as no sub­womt·n's collcgiatt· basketball 
W. don't have your answers.
they sh'ould he considnahly better

player in the nation, and was dralkdstitutions are permitted. Teams arc 
But 'We'll listen to your questions, 
this time."

in the 11fth round hy the WBL's Dal­
share some of our own

allowt·d. howevn. to usc a player 
Notre Dame then hits the road

las Diamonds: 
abQut who we ~Wnt to beco!)'le
not listt·d on till' roster providt·d 
toward Lafayette, for a Monday after­

and where we want to journey. 
noon matt·h against the Boiler­

For anyone who has considered 
makers of Purdut·. "l>urdue 

the path of priesthqod. the Holy Cross Fathers· One-Year Candidate Program provides an opportunity to ask and explore 
traditionally hasn't been a strong 
team," commerted Fallon,

AnxiousIrish return 
the possibilities in community.
"howevt·r, they arc much better this year, and sh1luh.l play very tough at 
Conlt'KI. 
Rt"'v. Andre I ('VCIIIe, CS.C
home."



to baseballaction 
Vocation OuKtor 
Box 541
Tht· Irish then return home for a 
II
Not"' Damo. IN 46556
match against powerful Northwt·s­
(2191 2BJ-6J85

By DAVE IRWIN baseman Will Sht:phard, who played 
tcrn on Wednesday; The match will 

.\jmrts Wrltt•r on the local Post SO Lt:gion team that 
he televised hy ESPN. 

won the national championship in 
Larry Gallo's express has hec:n 1977 with Notre Dame outfielder slowed hy Mother Nature, hut the Dan Szajkjr>. Shephard hit .305 in 11rst-yt·ar lwad t·oach of the Notre 19HO. Top pitdwr for Butler is 
._.United Limo, Inc. 

l>anw hast:hall te;mJ hopes it won't senior Grady Fclles, who was 7-2 in impcdt· tlu· Irish performance. the 19HO campaign. 
Travel United Limo To/From Chicago O'Hare Airport 
"At this stage of the season it's im­Gallo will pitch senior ace Mike 
portant to play everyday," Gallo Deasey (2-2) and ~enior Bob Bartlett said. "It's unfortunate that the ( .i-2) aginst the Bulldogs. One Way Fare ..... $22.00 weatht-r wouldn't <:oopcratc; Tht· Irish hitting attack remains on 
Deliver to vour airline at O'Hare Airport 
howt·ver. I don't think that it's going a terror as the team hatting average Round Trip .......... $39.00 
O'Han: pick-up ~t Lower Level Carson R~taurant
to afft-ct our play. If anything, the has climbed to .:\34, better than the hrt·ak gavt· tlw players an oppor­school record of.332 set last year. Save over 5u% on Round Trip To and From O'Hare tunity to t·atdl up on thl'ir studies." Senior catcherJim Montagano has Tht· Irish wt·rt· rained out ofa pair taken over the team hatting average 
New Schedule: 

oftlouhlheadt·rs With Western Mich­lead fom juunior first baseman igan and Xavkr ovc:r the weekend. Henry Valenzuela, hut it ha~ not Tut·sday's twinhill with St. Joseph's bet·n because Valcnzuda has failed NOW LEAVING ND BUS SHELTER also was rained out. to hit the ball. Montagano is ripping 
Notrt• Dame dimht·d above .SOO the ball at a .435 clip and lead~ the 6 TIMES A DAY hy swt"t:ping a douhlt-ht·ader from team in doubles with seven and in lkthd College, I j-1 0, I 1-S, on April total hases with 53. Valcnzu.da is hit­
O'IIARF J•KK-lll'_

7 -the last timt· the Irish were in ting a not-too-shabby .431 and leads action. Tht· Irish are now I 1-10-1 af­the squad in runs hatc:d in ( .27) and ter winning l'ight of their last nine with hits ( 31 ). Valt-nzuda and Mon­and I I of tht· last 14. tagano art· tkd for tht· team lead in 
The Irish hopt· to try again against homeruns with four. Hutlt-r today at I p.m. in another Szajko, a junior, leads the Irish in doublt-header on Jake Kline Fidd. runs with 2H and in stolen bases with 
Butler will be looking to snap a new Irish single season record of 
I /lui\ fl/1(' /tu111 /ltllll Ulll t/IJ"f\(1/ 111111" ,'II 111111 uf 1/1~·/t•

Notre Dame's six-game win streak. I0. He is also hitting .329. 
l'l1·:•w mak1· n·wnatinn' !~ hnnr' in ;uhann· The Bulldogs were 22-171ast season The Irish remain husy during Eas­\'k ahnul 'PI'I·ialrharh·r mh·' and own a commanding 14-7 ad­ter a~ they head for Detroit Saturday 
CaU United Limo, Inc. (219)255-3068

vantage in the series. Top returnees and retun home Monday against Ball for the Bulldogs arc senior shortstop State. Detroit was an impressive 32-OFFICE, Tim Blakeley (.360 batting average 21 last season while Ball State was Bittersweet aMcKinley, Big Bear Restaurant, Town aCountry Center, last season) and senior third 14-18. :Notre Dame Bus Shetter, Mlchlana Regional Airport 




Sports Special -Basketball Recruiting Review Thursday, April 16, 1981 -page 10 
Five blue-chip women, two men 




Irish land Parade pair Digger fills guard need 

continuedfrom page 12 
cially when you miss that putt or misread a shot," O'Sullivan says. "That's why it's so important that we play as a team. We're not playing for ourselves, we're playing for Notre Dame." 
Thar.as O'Sullivan knows so very well, is quite a mouthful. In case you haven't noticed, South Bend isn't quite Augusta or Palm Springs. Spring golfin Michiana is often survival of the least frostbitten. 
Year in and year out, though, the Irish field a very competitive squad, and O'Sullivan's approach has more than a little to do with that. 
"Of course, you have to have good golfers,H he says. "But I look for more than that. !like players who have been involved in other sports. It's ·important to have people who are competitors, because the conditions are rarely ideal." 
Every spring, O'Sullivan gamely sets an NCAA bid as his team's goal. He is well aware that the Irish must out­perform dozens of teams with dozens of scholarships and bigger budgets, but in his eternal optimism, he refuses to waver. 
"Yes, we're shooting for the stars, but ifyou shoot for the stars and don't make it, you're still better for it" Until now, O'Sullivan and his men have been tilting at windmills. All of that changed Monday, though. Notre Dame 
• 
By CRAIG CHVAL 
Sports Writer 
In her first full season ofre~ruiting at Notre Dame, the Irish women's basketball coach criss-crossed the nation in search ofhighschool talent to spark her fledgling program. There may bea trend among some Of ttle men's programs in the nations to recruit closer tO home, but one look at Mary D.'s travel log dispelled that notion as far as ihe Irish were con­cerned. 
When the results were in, DiS­tanislao and assistants Patrick Knapp and Mary Murphy had landed five blue-chippers, including a pair of 
·Parade Magazine All-Americans, in the hopes upon building upon this winter's 10-18 record. 
· OneParade choice will grace the Irish backcourt next winter, while the other will bring added punch to the Notre Dame front line. Laura Dougherty, a 5-10 guard from Pas-­cackValley High School in Hillsdale, NJ., was a third-team selection on the basis ofher 1980·81 averages of 22 points, six assists and six steals per contest. 
Only the sixth girl in New Jersey history to score 2,000 career points, Dougherty shot 62 percent from the floor and 76 percent at the free throw line. Sbe led Pascack Valley to a 27·1 season while gaining distinc­tion as a junior. 
Dougherty will be joined along the guard line by 5-8 point' guard Susan Neville. D!Stanislao and her staff really proved their recruiting mctttle by luring Neville from Decatur, Ala., where she started and captained the squad for all four years en route to setting every scoring record at Decatur High School. Her 
19 points, six rebounds, four assists and three rebounds per game hcl.ped Decatur to a 20-S season. Al­thougb the state of Alabama doesn't ·recognize an all-state team for girls, Neville ma.qe every all-tournament and region team available to her during her four years. 
Notre Dame's big catch up front is 6-1 Parade honoree Carrie Bates; A 6-·1 forward. Bates sparked Kansas City's Hickman Mills High School to two successive Missouri 4-A titles by averaging 20 points and 10 rebounds per game over her career. AScholastic Magazine All-American .as a junior, Bates wiH probably see 
considerable action in the pivot for Notre Dame. 
DiStanislao stayed a little closer to home for her second frontcourt ad­dition, 6-1 forward· Mary· Beth Schueth of Perry Meridian High School in Indianapolis. Schueth, who will become the first Hoosier ever to play for the Irish, boasts marks of 22.8 points and 14:6 rebounds pet contest. As a senior, she shot 54 percent from the field and 59 percent at the free throw line, earning first-team all~state recognition. Meridian was 20-1 itt 1980-81. 
The Irish brain trust had decided 
to limit their efforts to four playe~!', 
but D!Stanislao and her assistants 
wavered when they had the chance 
to grab 5-l0 1/2 forward Ruth 
Kaiser from Marcos de Niza High 
School in Tempe, Ariz. A polishe~ 
all-around player, Kaiser carried 
Macos de Niza to the 1980 Arizona 
state crownwith figures of20 points 
and 14 rebounds per game. 1'ije 
1981 season is currently underway 
in Arizona. . 0, 
Notre Dame lost just two seniors 
-:c-starting gQards Sheila Liebscb<tt 
and Maggie Lally -from i~s 1980-~~ 
squad, but there is little doubt that 
the newcomers will play a vital rol~ 
in Ye:u"Two ofMary D.'srenaissanc~ 
program~ . :-y~~ 
Starters Tricia McManus, Missy 
Conboy and Shari Mavey 'return 
along the Irish front line, but if Di~ 
tanislao's liberal substitution policy 
of the past season continues, next 
year's freshmen certainly get an op­
portunity to work themselves into 
the scheme ofthings. " "I like to use a lot ofpeople,.and a 
lot· of different combinations, espe· 
dally at the start ofthe season," says 
Mary D. "All five girls are fundamen­
tally sound players, so they should 
have a minimum amount of trouble 
becoming acclimated to the sys~ 
tem.n 
Even though DiStanislao is bring­
ing in five players who can play five 
different positions, she dismisses the 
notion that the newcomers will 
come in and take over. 
"We learned a lot last season, even 
though we took our lumps," says 
Mary D. "I expect the girls we have 
coming back to blend in well with 
the new players, and the leadership 
they'll provide will be critical to OUr 
success." .. 


By SKIP DESJARDIN 
Sports Writer 

"We're losing five guys, six when 
you count (Kevin) Hawkins. How 
can Digger only bring in two new 
recruits?" 

The questions, suspicions, and quasi-accusations have flown across this campus, seemingly since before Danny Ainge's shot passed through the strings and ended Notre Dame's season. 
"People forget that we brought in four top-notch freshmen this season, despite the fact tha.t we only lost two players from the year before," says Irish coach Digger Phelps. "We don't need to bring in a lot ofplayers this time around." 
What Phelps has sacrificed in quantity, he has made-up for in quality. Two ofthe nation's top high school prospects have signed letters of intent to attend Notre Dame this fall. 
"Our most urgent need was guards," Phelps contends, "and I think we got two of the best in the country in Rowan and Duff." 
Ron Rowan is a 6-5 guard from Beaver Falls, Pa. A great outside shooter, Rowan led his high school to the Pennsylvania Class AAA semi­finals as a junior, and was an all-state selection in each ofhis last two prep 
seasons. 

"Ron is going to give us the size we like to have in the backcourt," says Phelps. "He handles the ball very well, and he's just a great 
shooter." 

A nominee for both the Dapper Dan and McDonald's All-America Classics, Rowan averaged well over twenty points a game for Beaver Falls High. 
"Ron's ability to penetrate inside serves as a perfect balance to his outside shooting, it makes him twice as dangerous offensively," explains Phelps. "It's very tough to defense against a big guard who can do both, get inside and shoot from the outside, as well as Ron can. 
··with the group ofseniors we lost this year, there is no doubt that he is going to play a key role in our program for the next four seasons." 
Joining Rowan in the backcourt for the 1981-82 season will be an­other all-America candidate, Dan Duff. The 6-0, 187-pound Duff was a concensus All-Illinois selection after 
• • • O'Sullivan 
woke up Monday morning with an I !-stroke lead over Ball State in the Indianapolis Intercollegiate, which Notre Dame has never won. That, in itself, was nothing 
new. 

"A lot of the people down there, and the Ball State players, were expecting us to fold," says O'Sullivan, who adds that there have been times in the past when 
they may have been right. 

But sparked by Bob Horak and Tim Sacheck, O'Sullivan's team stretched its lead to 14 strokes, capturing the 12-team event, played over Eagle Creek Country Club, the site of the 1982 Public Links cham­
pionship. 

"Our goals are pride, performance and position," O'Sullivan says. "And we had all three, ;!nd then some. It's one thing to win an event, but it's another to win it with style, and that's what we did. We beat some top­flight competition on a tremendos course." 
Now, Notre Dame really does have a shot in the NCAA bid that used to be only a carrot at,'"the end of O'Sullivan's stick. 
"Yes, now it's a realistic goal," he insists. "We have some tough tournaments coming up, but we have a very mature team, and we know that we can compete with anyone we'll have. It's up to us now." 
That it is. and don't be too surprise? if O'Sullivan and his players come back with a windmill one of these days. 
his fourth season as a starter for Lin­coln High School. 
"Dan is the kind of ballplayer you want running your offense," Phelps says. "He is a.smart player, the best 'floor general' we saw at the high school level this year." 
Touted by many as the premier point guard in the country, Duff combined excellence at both ends ofthe court. 
"He can score when it's neces­sary," says Phelps of the 15-point­per-game scorer. "But his biggest attribute b his ability to take care of the basketball. On top ofall that, Dan is also a ~t·;x-rb defensive player." 
Duffhl!ld~ team records for assists in a singk game, season, and career catcgorit-s. :~nd his playmaking made him a candida[e for Illinois' Mr. Bas­ketball a\\ a rd. 
Both f•;:iyers are academic stan­douts, with Duff ~porting a 4.4 grade average on a ~.0 scale. 
"I just don't want to over-recruit," says Phelp~. "[think our front line is coming al,mg really well. Joe Kleine and Timmy Andree showed a tremendous amount of improve­ment over the course of the year. Plus we've got Billy Varner, Tom Sluby, Barry Spencer, and Cecil Rucker to work with. It's their turn; they workt·d for it and now they are going to get it." 
Phelps points to the numbers situation on the team as a rationale for his strategy. 
"You've got to keep things in perspective. When Mike Mitchell graduates, we will still have nine players on scholarship. Once we recruit three more. we are back up to twelve. I don't think you can work with much more than that. 
"We had the second highest rated recruiting class in the country last year, right behind K .entucky. They a~ bringing in just one player, we're bringing in just two. You've got to put limits on the size ofyour squad. 
"These guys are ct>mmitted to Notre Dame, and we arc making a commitment to them in return. It isn't fair to over-recruit. It makes too many peop)e unhappy." 
So Phelps has brought in the players he and his assistants think will best tit into the program. He is looking for big things from them, as well as from the players that were already here. As he says, it is their turn, and they will have to make the best ofit. 
by Tht> Ohf!·rr•t•r and Tht· ArJuuutcd Pn u 
The Notre Dame lacrosse team plays host to Ohio State ( 1-1. in Ml.A compt.·tition) this aftanoon at 4 p.m. on Cartkr Field, hoping to t.·xtc:nd its two-game Midwest Lacrosst.· Association winning streak. The Irish, <.'urrc:ntly in tirst place in the MIA's llniver· sity Division, arc 2-2 in MI.A play and ~-3 overall. Irish coach Rich O'Leary says, "The Ohio Stale game is the difference between a one· and-a-half game divisional lead and second place." Notrt· Dame will entertain Ashland College ( 0·4 in MI.A play) Saturday morning at 
II ::~0 a.m. on Cartia Field. -The Obserr•er 
ND women's tennis team avenged an earlier 
dc:ft.·at at tht.· hands of DePauw by pasting the Tigers, 6-3. at the Courtney Tt.·nnis Genter yesterday. Tht.· Irish, now 18-6 in dual match competition during 1980-8I, got double victories from Linda IIoyer (second singles and first doublcs ), Pam Fischette (third singles and second doubles) and Mary l.egt.·ay (fifth singls and second doubles) to post its first victory ever over DePauw. The Irish, who are gearing up for tht.· AIAW Division II Rt.·gion V tournament in May, will play host to Wt.·stc:rn Illinois, on Saturday, April 2S.-The Obserr1er 
Referees for Bookstore Basketball are needed. Any certified basketball ollicial interested in one of these paid positions should contact l.t.•t.· Manfred at 7820 or 6100. -The Obserr•er 
A Golf Tournament has been added to the list of An Tostal activities this spring. The nint.·-hole tourney will he played on Tuesday, April 21 on the Burke Memorial Golf Course. There will be ~c:paratc: divisions for men and women and prizes will be given in t.•ach. Prizes also will he awarded in a "Closest-to-the-Pin" compt.·tition on one of the par-thrn· holes. To regista, call Tim at 1387 or 1392. Green fees will be collected when you tee off on April 21. -The Obserr•er 
The annual Blue-Gold game, marking the offi­
cial end ofspring football practice, is scheduled for Saturday, May 2 at I p.m. in Notre Dame Stadium. Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students will be admitted at no charge upon presentation of their student ID cards at Gate I 5 onlv. General admission tickets for the public arc available in advance at the ACC's Gate 10 box office from 9 a.m. to S p.m., Monday through Friday. Prices for these tickets art.· $2.50 for adults and S I for people 17-and-undcr. Tickets will also be available at the stadium on game day priced at $350 and S 1.50 respectively. Thcrt~ will be no reservt·d seating. The game is sponsored annually by the Notre Danu· Alumni Club of St. joseph Valley and supports the dub's scholarship fund which currently sustains 16 area students at the I lniVl'rsity. -The Ohsen•er 


Thursday, April 16, 1981 -page 1 1 

THIRD ROUND Yeaterday'a Reaulta 
Stepan t Tequila White Lightning over Back to Reality by t 7 Take Th1s Ball & Shove It over Roamers Reg1na Raceway by t 0 Roemer's Narc Squad over Dr. J & the Penetration Professionals by 3 The Buzzards over There Once Was a Team ... by 3 
Stepan2 
Keon·s Boundry Spanners over Fat Chances by 12 Golden Griffins over Lovely Bottoms by 14 Athletes Out of Action over Plato & the Fantastic Forums by 5 Jackson 5 over The Virtuals by 7 
Stepsn3 Nelrs R.C.M.P."s over M.D Chapman & the John Lennon Fan Club by 15 
US over R. Pryor & the Have a Coke Freebase 
Players by 15 4 Jerks & a Squirt over Jane·s Tram Gang. 22-20 1n OT 
Stepan4 Larry and Gary Wolf... ? over Jack Schm1dt & the One-eyed Hoag1es by 5 East-Coasters over Puberty & the Newcomers. 22­20 inOT New Malia over Chtibinguists by 5 
Stepan 8 Good Ole Boys over Live Mus1c IS Better... by 10 
Bookatore9 Visual Orgasm over S. Judy & the Shock Absor­bers by 11 WEBB"s End over In Memory of B1g Dog by 15 
W. Pace over WHIPT by 9 
Bookatore 1 0 Lex Talioms over Totally lrrespos1ble, 25·23 1n OT The SqUidleys over The Doobies by 4 
J.J. ·sTeam Wants to Play Gerry Faust"s Team in the 1st Round over Five Footers by 4 
Lyona11 Nebo's II over Wildcats by 2· The Master Gees over LUDUS by 2 
Lyons12 Doug Walsh & the High Rates over Col. Lmgus & the Pnvates by 5 
END OF THIRD ROUND 
Games of Tuea., Aprll21 4th Round· 64 Teams 
Stepan 1 4:45-Roemer's Narc Squad v. Athletes Out of Action 6:00-US (9)v. East-Coasters 6:45-Nebo"s II v. J.J.·sTeam Wants to Play Gerry Faust"s Team in the 1st Round 
Stepan2 4:45-HiIrs Angels v. Flight 5:30-Take This Ball & Shove It v. Golden Gnlfins 6:15-The Assassms (4) v. William Futtbuckly & the Greek lntelectuals 
Stepan3 5:30-Ch1p1gula & the Debauchers (6) v. Chain· saw & H1s 4 Beavers 6:15-Capt. Vaseline & the Slippery Strokes v. Cotton Pony Tony 
Stepan4 4:45-DorothyStratten& the ln-Your-FaceK1dsv. The Interferons 5:30-tst Round Losers del. Penetrators by7 6:00-The Buzzards v. t M. Sllfl Erection Firm 6 45 -Masters of D1saster (8) v. Momsson Schwartzer& the Toxic Wastes StepanS 

6:00 -Jackson 5 (1) v. 4 Jerks& A Squirt 
6:45-The T.P ·s v. Put it'" the Hole Stepan 6 

6:00-The New Mafia v. B1g Organ & H1s Bounc· 
ing Balls 6:45-OUick Shot & the Embarrassmg Stams v. Fubar 
Stepan 7 

6:15 -Dana·s Demons v. The Bncklayers Stepan& 6:15-Doug Walsh & the High Rates v. Good Ole Boys 
Bookatore9 4:00-Tequila Wh1te L1ghtmngv. Keon's Boundry Spanners 4:45-The Squ1dleys v. Lex TalioniS 6:00-T.B. Express (7) v. Fluid Force 
6:45 -McNamara's Band v T01c Shock Syndrome & the 4 Relyables 
Bookatore 10 4·00-WEBB"s End (3) v. Atomic Drops 
4:45 -Nett's R.C.M.P.S. v. Larry & Gary Wolf. 
Where Are You? 6:00-Return ol the Nutmeggers v. Humor at the Expense of Others 
6:45-W Pace (5) v. The Master Gees Lyona11 

4:00 -J1m Pmk & the Blues v. The Open Facers 4:45-A Touch of Class v. Rhame Machine 5:30-Rockets in Our Pockets v. V1sual Orgasm 
6:15 -Head Over Heels v. Wrecked ·em As a Whole 
Lyona12 4:45-Re-classified Nads v. Gone W1th the Wmd 5:30-Gimme Hell v. Oral S1x 6:45-4 Jerks & a Dribblerv. CF 
WOMEN'S BOOKSTORE Firat ROUND Gamea of Tuea., Aprll21 Stepan 5 
4:00-Your Mother v. Debbie Ficker 

Stepan& 4:00-F1led Five v. The Punks That Can Whip It Good 
Stepan 7 4:00-B.P. Enforcers v. Looney Rooney·s & Co. 4:45-Miss Iowa & Her Corntes v. The Unknown Hoopsters 5:30-Cindy Battelv. Fac1als 
Stepan& 4:00-Maura Hart v. The Body Human Phase It 
4:45 -Tigger"s T1gers v. Volleyball Players Pretending To Be Basketball Players 5:30-Go For Blood v. Take It On The Run 

NATIONAL HOCKEY LEAGUE Stanley Cup Playoffs Quarterfinal Round Best-of-Seven 
Tonight's Games Edmonton at New York Islanders Minnesota at Buffalo Calgary at Philadelphia New York Rangers at St. Louis 
Tomorrow's Games Edmonton at New York Islanders Mmnesota at Buffalo Calgary at Philadelphia New York Rangers at St. LoUis 

i BASKETBALL.~WJ 
NBA PLAYOFFS Conference Semifinals Baat-of-Seven Eastern Conference 
Yesterday's Results Philadelphia 116. Milwaukee 109 (Philadelphia leads series. 3·2) 
Tomorrow's Game 
Ph1ladelph1a at Milwaukee 
Sunday's Game 
Milwaukee at Philadelphia, 1f necessary 
Western Conference 
Tuesday, Aprll7 Houston 107, San Antonio 98 Phoenix 102. Kansas C1ty 80 
Wednesday, AprilS San Antonio 125, Houston 113 Kansas City 88, Phoenix 83 
Friday, Aprll1 0 Houston 112. San Anton1o 99 Kansas C1ty 93, Houston 92 
Sunday, Aprll12 Kansas City 102. Phoen1x 95 San Antonio 114. Houstonn 112 
Tuesday, Aprll14 Houston 123, San Antonio 117 
Yesterday's Results Phoenix 101. Kansas C1ty 89 (Kansas C1ty leads senes. 3·2) San Antonio 101. Houston 86 (senes 11ed. 
3·3) Friday's Games Houston at San AntoniO Phoenix at Kansas C1ty 
Sunday's Game Kansas C1ty at Phoenix. 1f necessary 
• • • Track 
amlinuedfrom page 12 
jonesboro, Doyle cleared 2j-feet, one-inch in tht.· pole vault, a Notre 
Dame season best. 
The pole vault will be the biggest challenge for Doyle however. This should bt.· the featurt.· event of the day and one of the key matdlllps in the country in trat.·k and field. Ed Langford of Purdue will test Indiana freshman Dave Volz. 
Langford was the NCAA indoor champ this year at lktroit. Volz however beat l.angtiJrd in tht.• Big Ten Championships to become champion of that conkrt·nce. 

All clt!S~If•r·rt ,tds '1'1USI bP rec~rveo t·v 4 45 p m INn r1,J\oS pr•.Jr 10 !tit.' 
•'>'itd' 111 wt1H h rtw 11! ''> run Tht! Observttr olftre wdl ,,, , t!~l li,l':>Stl l'd!!. 
Mond.tv TtlflloJt~tl Frl\1.-~\ 10 00 ol m !O ~ 00 J) m All Clit~:-.dotH1!1 'l\1/SI llt· 
IJII'·P.tld 1'1 i1f•r 11, l•l'l~()fl ,,r fhi+lUytl !llt! rT'ldll




Classifieds 
~----~.~------------~~-~-~~,:-:-:...::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~::··,::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~ 
HAPPY EASTER TO THE POLISH PRO Lady, 31. seeks ~sertous relattonshtpLOST Green. lined wmdbreaker. back­HELP!!tl I NEED A RIDE TO THE 

MJM. 
AND HIS LIVE-IN DOMESTIC EN·wtth man EnJOY arts. outdoors.

stage at the Jazz Festival thiS weekend. KANSAS CITY AREA FOR EASTER 
I hope you re not too bored this 
GINEER, from your baby alater andchildren. nasa1111 natural foods Non­Would greatly apprectate tis return. Am

L NOTICECJ 
BREAK!!!! WILL SHARE EXPENSES weekend, espectally smce my relat1ves 
her sldek1ck, snuggle bunny and ptck­cold Call T J. 3207 AND INTERESTING CONVERSATION! hate you so much! They hate you al· smoker Wnte 1222 E South St. S. B lepusa. P.S. I DO NOT LOOK LIKE MYIN 46615PLEASE CALL PEG·--1288 most as much as I do.
USED & OUT-OF-PRINT BOOKS LOST A football on Madeleva Field. II BROTHER 
Love. MMB

boughl. sold. searched ERASMUS you ptcked tl up, please call Janet at NO MALES SEEK 3RD FLOOR PW
Male housemate wanted for 81-82 BETH HACKETT·· The only gra1n olBOOKS Tues·Sunday. 12·6 1027 E 4152 FEMALES WHO BELIEVE IN THE POS· 
school year Call x1 075 for mformalton.
Wayne (one block south ol Eddy· ,JANE-OISAFI B.! truth tn the N 0 woman stereotype
SIBILITY OF HAVING SEX ON A 2ND Jetlerson tntersectton) FOUND A SUM OF MONEY OUTSIDE DATE WITHOUT MAKING MARRIAGE 
BETH HACKETT tor UMOC OF HAYES-HEALY ON APRIL 14 CALL JUNIORS. Appllcat1ons tor 1982 Sen1or 
PLANS APPLY AT ANY MALE DORM Atders needed to Evansvtlle. vta In·
ND·SMC photographers Do you need a 8906 TO CLAIM Formal Chatrman are now avatlable rn 
d1Bnapol1s Will be leavmg Thursday
model? t need camera t1me x7344 307 Dillon and 1002 Flanner All In· DEAR EVERYBODY HOW MANY PEOPLE DO YOU KNOWmghl or Fnday mornmg. Call Chns
FOUND Watch 1n tront of Walsh Call tBreSted Senters-to-be are en­BECAUSE ALL OF YOU WERE SO THAT MAKES THE CHILDREN CRY? 
Anne at 1361.
INSTANT CASH PAID FOR CLASS Robm Flynn at 2843 and 1denllly couraged to apply. Deadline· Thursday 
NICE I HADAREALLYGREATVACA· JUST ONE RINGS $20·$85 OR MORE WE MAKE Apnl 23. Any questiOns, call Dave 
TION I THANKS PRO BURKE FOR UMOC HOUSE CALLS 255·2402 (1783) or M1ke (1416)
Need nders to BGSU or Canton. Oh1o LOVE. MARTHA S MOM THE UGLIEST MAN ON CAMPUS II II(or p01nts between) on Fnday. April 24. 
VOTE PRO TYPING. MODEST RATES. 233·9491 HEY' Ladles ol SMC·NDI ThiS IS your 
Leav1ng 1 p m Call Joe 1840 JOE-Its been 3 months and I'm not even bored There's st1ll so much to learn chance to wtsh that crazy and wonder­TYPING--Only $ 65 a page Call Dan. ~RENT But I know I can handle 11 1Can you?! It lui guy· Andy Dempsey · a Happy 21st The anawera to lsat Frlday'aall started w1th the Hemekens!l Thanks foreverythmg I Love You. Drztzy 272-5549 B~rthday! Call today 1535 
Woodatock Quiz are •• tollowo: FOR RENT UGLY DUCKLING RENT· 1. The feattval waa held on the farm
PROFESSIONAL TYPING Term An Tostal Tuck·In Service
A-CAR FROM $7 95 A DAY AND 7 FOR SALE I need three graduation tickets. Call S1gn up today! 5 30-6 30 1n North and owned by Max Yasgur 
papers. theses. etc Tape transcnpt1on CENTS A MILE PHONE 259-UGL Y 2 It was held not 1n Woodstock. bul
Joe Conroy at 8570. FOR RESERVATIONS closer to Bethel, New YorkLast years same low pnces All work South Dmmg Halls 
guaranteed aardvark automatic solu· SURPLUS JEEPS. CARS. TRUCKS 3. The group whtch took tiS name 
•
lions 289·6753 Car-mv value $2143 sold tor $100. Call 
SUMMER APARTMENT Fully PAPER AIRPLANE CONTEST!!! lro[ll a 1958 hit song. and had been to·
Jell Jeffers IS ugly But even 11 he·s not

602·941·8014 Ext 3648 Many other
turn1shed-eqU1pped one-bedroom apt gather tor only a lew weeks when
THE ugl1est guy on campus. he st1ll IS An Tostai··Gentle Thursday available lor summer(5·15 lo 8·15) 4 PM at ANGELA (SMC) asked to perform at ·Woodstock was FLY WITH USI Learn to solo'" about 30 bargatns available 
THE most deservmg of this award Located '" popular apt. complex and S1mply because he deserves 11 Reg1ster 3349 (401 Keenan) by 22 Apnl! Sha Na Nadays Lowest rates '" lhts area Based 
al M1ch1ana Reg1onal A~rport L1censed mcludes color tele . A·C, d1shes & uten· 4 Sly and lhe Family Slone per·pilots may fly our planes also Reg1onal s1ls, etc. Closest apt to club house and tormed 1mmed1ately betore Jan1s
--···CRYSTAL .....

Fly1ng Club, 277·5006 or 277·5181 
pool Rent $205-mo&utlls Oepos1t re· Need nders g01ng 80 East to PA border. Joplin
CRYSTAL ROCKS I! 

QUired 277·7392 leavmg Fnday mornmg Call Dav1d at 5 Jim/ Hendrix closed out I he three· 
CRYSTAL ROCKS POL LOCKS 

Add1t1onal ft1ght 1ns1ructor (CFI) 233·3658 day concert

TICKETS 
and other partymg types on DINGUS AVAILABLE SUMMER AND NEXT 6 The song msp~red by the ramstormwanted tor Regional Fly1ng Club Part 
DAY (Man Apnl 20) at IRISH SCHOOL YEAR 5 BEDROOM HOUSE. VOLUNTEERS DESPERATELY at Woodstock. wrttlen by a woman wholtme. set your own rate Larry Murfin. 
COUNTRY End Easter Break nght With

277-5006 
1 AND 3 BEDROOM APARTMENTS I need 3 lthat"s three) graduatiOn t1ck· a rock·n roll good t1mel!! NEEDED performed dunng 11. was "'Lay Down 234·2626 ets. (Yes. folks 1ts starting already) II 1 People to help pa1nt and possibly (Candles in Ihe Rain)·· by Melanie. WILL DO TYPING CALL287·5t82 
you can help me. call Scoop at 1772. move thtngs to new locatiOn lor 7 The new group whtch featured a
When Nancy Zaczek was little. she 

TWO GIRLS LOOKING FOR AN APT IN Phoen1x House. week ol Apr 21 & 27 former member ol Cream (1 e. Jack
used to work 1n a pet shop but people

BOSTON? NEEDED 2 Student to talk w1th edlerly man Bruce) was Mountain
kept commg tn askmg how btg she d 

We can syblet our apt thts summer MANY TICKETS FOR GRADATION get! about N D 8 The band which was pertorm1ng

LOST/FOUND 
For more 1nfo. wnte or call Laura or CALL TIM AT 16500R 1868 Contact Volunteer Semces. 7308 ltve tor only the second ltme was
Vote NANCY ZACZEK lor UMOCI 

Molly (two ·eo ND grads) at Crosby, Stills, Nash, and YounQ, 34 Medfield St Apt No 4 Bob F1ordahso. 9 The most popular Amer~can band
We don I want to say I hat TOM SHIELS 

Boston, MA 02115(617) 437·9490 Have a wonderful Easter tn Buffalo! at the t1me. who appeared there but not
has acne, but last n1ght a blind man

LOST PAIR OF PRESCRIPTION (No abuse th1s time)' on any ol the compilation albums. wasGLASSES · TORTOISE FRAMES IN was caught 1n the library trymg to read
PERSONALS C1ndy Creedenee Clearwa/er Revival.
hrs lace! 

YELLOW CASE PLEASE CALL IF 10. A total of lhree people d1ed on the
Vote TOM SHIELS tor UMOCI 

FOUND FRANCIE 277-8760 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY TRICIA Mlllll Woodstock test1val grounds dunng the BRIDGETS DAILEY SPECIALS MONOGRAM IS ON THE WAY. lest1vat. 
LOST Tan-maroon reversible ;acket. What do Paul(thats Pawl) Somel~lske.
ALL YOU SMC WINE DRINKERS BE LOVE & KISSES, YOU KNOW WHO ... 
poss1bly at North D1n1ng Hall last week Mary Beth Brennan and Henry F1eldmg THERE T1m Neely

WANTED

Mom will diSown me Call John al3256 have in common? They were all born
75C WINE 3·7 EVERYDAY M.J Ralterty for UMOC 
on Apnt 22! Don·t let thiS Important day

ALL YOU ND BEER DRINKERS Wanted R1de to New Brunsw1ck· 
pass by Without extendmg birthday LOST GOLD MAN S WEDDING BAND 
25C OFF ALL BEER EVERYDAY 3·7 No. 1. HOW DOES IT FEEL HIGH-FIVE Rutgers area ol New Jersey Able to
w1shes to Paul and Mary Beth (Henry 

AT THE ALBERT PICK ON FRIDAY. Need riders gomg 80 Eao;t to PA border. GANG??? leave May 10. Cal13850
Will be a b1t harder to reach!) Only s1x APRIL tO EXTREME SENTIMENTAL teavmg Fnday mornmg Call Dav1d at Alter Break. IRISH WAKE II! more days! 
VALUE REWARDIII277-0458 233·3658 

·• 

~-. 
Thursday, April16, 1981 -page 12


SP-orts 
-

Travels to IU 

Track team faces big test 
By MATT HUFFMAN 
Sports Writer 
The next big test for the surging Notre Dame track team is this weekend's first-running of the In­diana Intercolkgiates in Bloomington, Ind. The event will replace the Big State meet that is held in cross-country and indoor track. The five Division I universities in Indiana will be among the schools competing -Purdue, Indiana, In­diana State, Ball State and Notre Dame. 

The winner will take home a trophy named for three former In­diana track coaches, including Alex Wilson t ofNotre Dame. Wilson com­peted for Notre Dame from 1927-31 as an All-America middle distance runner. 
The events will be named for for­mer athletes in the state, at least seven of whom are expected to be on hand. Included among those ex­p~cted to be in Bloomington is for­mer Irish All-American Rick Wohlhut'er, a middk-.distance star from 1967-71. 
This is Notre Dame's only meet of 
Joe Yonto settles into administrative role 
By FRANK LaGROTTA 
Sports Writer 
For .35 years joe Yonto paced the sidelines -clipboard in hand, heart in mouth -plotting, planning, thinking, scheming. Winning t(Jotball games. 
Before coming to Notre Dame with the Ara ParM·ghian regime in 196·1, Yon to spent 16 years as a high school coach. However, it has been since his return to his 't:ollege alma mater that he has developed his dis­tinctive style which has manufactured more all-American 
defensive  linemen  than Mrs.  
Browner  and  Mrs.  Selmon  
combined.  

So it is a bit hard to figure out why, after 33 years and all those living trophies to show for it, Joe Yonto i~> no longer on the sidelines, clipboard in hand, etcetera, etcetera. With last 
January's changing of the guard, 
Yonto will no longer coach, but in­
stead serve as administrative assis-

Spring Football'81 

tant to new head man Gerry Faust. There was really no explanation for it. New staff assignments just came out and, well, that was that. 
Or was it? Many people wondered why Yonto, defensive line coach at Notre Dame for many years and recently named defensive coor­dinator by Devine. had been moved off the field and into the office. In fact, many people wondered whet­her or not he would accept the job. 
"There was never really any ques­tion about that," smiles Yonto. familiar cigar twirling between his fingers. "It's great to be-a part of Notre Dame in any capacity. 
"I like what I'm doing right now. Of course you can't do something

.• 
for 33 years and then give it up with­out missing it. But I'm happy doing what I'm doing." 
Yonto describes his respon­sibilities as serving as a liason he­tween the foothall office and the administration. 
"I'd say my duties include any number of things," he points out. "ijasically I am involved in all the ad­ministrative functions that are not involved with on-the-field activities. For instance, I handle . the pro coad1es that come in to scout seniors and the high school coaches of top n:cruiting prospects. I deal a lot with films and there is some speaking involved. As far as what my duties will he during the season, well, we'll just have to wait and see." 
Yonto is quick to point out what practically everyone else is saying as well: working with Gerry Faust and the new coaching staff is, as he puts it, "super." 

"They are all hard-working and have great feelings for people," says Yonto. "I also enjoy working with (new athletic director) Gene Cor­rigan. I'd say Notre Dame made some good choices when they hired these guys. It's a great merger all the way around." 
IRISH ITEMS -Sophomore Tony Hunter, last season's first string split end, has apparently been moved to wingback. At this time it seems that likely candidates for the split end job are junior Mike Boushka and freshman-to-be Van Pearcy. 
the year that has qualifying stan­ 
dards, with the exception of the  
NCAA Championships. As a result  
head coach Joe Piane will he taking  
only 1 S runners to the meet. Or-.  
dinarily the Irish have between 30  
and 40 performers.  
Another result of the tough entry  
standards is that_ the competition  
will be the best thus far in the  
season. "If we run competitively I'll  
he very pleased," says Piane.  
During the past indoor season, co­ 
captain Chuck Aragon set the Notre  
Dame record for the mile (which he  
later broke again) at the track at In­ 
diana University.  
The host Hoosiers have two stars  
who should prove to he formidable  
challengers_ They include Jim  
Spivey, winner of the I980 Notre  
Dame Invitational in cross country,  
and Mike Wellman. With these two  
pushing, and Indiana's fast track  
Aragon may be able to break the  
NCAA qulifying standard for the  
I '500 meters of 3:44.1  
Senior Tim Twardzik ran a :'54.2 in  
the 400 intermediate hurdles this  
past weekend at the Arkansas State  
Invitational, and did so running  
against a heavy wind. Twardzik will  
have his hands full with Nate Lundy,  
the Big Ten champion in that event.  
Paul Doyle again will carry the  
banner for the Iri&,h in the field  
events. He will compete in the pole  
vault and the long jump. Last week in  Good sbgoters and air-bailers alike were out in full force yester­ 
See TRACK, page 11  day as. the Bookstorefield was cut to 64. ( Pboto by Racbid Blount)  

=-----======== 
Bookstore Tournament narrows 
By FRANK LaGROTTA and SKIP DESJARDIN 
Sports Writers 
As students head home for the 
Easter Break, Bookstore is taking a 
break as well. The tournament field 
has been narrowed from 384 teams 
to a paltry 64. In Bookstore lingo 
they are known as the Scintillating 
64, and they had better enjoy the 
days off. 
Once the vacation is over, and the tournament resumes, these 320 players will have to play ever day if they wish to go all the way to the finals. The team that can win five games in five days will walk away with the coveted trophies that tradi­tionally go to Bookstore champions. 
There was, as alway, some great playground basketball played as the third round was completed last night. 
Mark Summers, just-five feet tall and a first year law student, hit a lay­up that proved to be the game win­ner, as unheralded Lex Talionis knocked off Totally Irresponsible in a 27-2'5 overtime game behind the Bookstore. The winners, with their motto, "we want to win another one, " exemplify the spirit of Bookstore. 
The top-ranked team of 1981, The Jackson Five, continue to roll. Tim Koegel hit 9 of his 1 S shots to lead the team to a seven point win over the Virtuals. Kevin Mullane's S-10 day was overshadowed as his team went down to defeat. 
"Awesome" was the only word that came to mind as Bookstore spectators saw No. 3 WEBB's End down In Memory of... by 1S. Boh Keenehan was a perfect 7-7, and teammate Kevin Dix was almost there with his 8-9 performance, in one of the shortest games of the year. 
Stan Wilcox of fifth-ranked W Pace was 12-23, and Sean Cooney was 6-23 for WHIPT. The difference in shooting between the two team scoring leaders translated into a nine point win for Wilcox and his team­mmates. 
US, last year's Cinderella team, continues to march toward another fine season. Skip Mark was 9-l 7 to lead the Keenanites to a IS point vic­tory over Richard Pryor.-., whose leading scorer, Nick Odem, could muster only a 3-8 performance. 
In the day's biggest rout, Tequila White... brought 1:heir opponents Back To Reality by handing them a I 7 point loss on the strength of8-14 and 7-13 shooting on the parts of Brian Enright and Steve Passinault, respectively. 

Two. other overtime games kept fan interest at a peak. East-Coasters downed ...the Newcomers, and 4 Jerks beat Jane's Train... by identical 22-20 scores. 
Kevin Hawkins, who missed the debut ofhis team, Born to Run, only to have them lose, joined up with Jack Schmidt & the One-eyed.... The trouble is, they lost too, despite Hawkins' 9-15 shooting. John Allen and Rich Cordova were both 8-21 to spell victory for Larry and Gary Wolf...? in that one. 
Former Student Body President Paul Riehle was 7-26 as his team, Plato & the Fantastic..., dropped a five point game to Don Stromillo (9­
34) and Athletes Out ofAction. 
"The Palos Verdes Connection" came out of the same high school as former Irish roundball star Bill Laim­beer, and last night Tim O'Connor and Rich Danberg led Visual... to an I I point win over Steve Judy & the Shock.... O'Connor was 9-1 S, and Danberg was S-12 to lead Assistant Commissioner Gary Grassey's team to another win. 
In a couple of two-point games, Pete Berg hit 8 ofhis I2 shots to lead Neho's II to Victory, and a 12-19 game by Kevin Kolbeck wasn't enough to bring a win to LUDUS. 



O,Sullivan eyes NCAA bid 
The only people who think Gerry Faust is the first coach to bring 24-hour-a-day, seven-day-a-week en­thusiasm to Notre Dame are the people who haven't met Noel O'Sullivan. 
Unfortnatdy, there are quite a few people who haven't had the pleasure. O'Sullivan, a graduate ofNotre Dame, is the Irish golf coach, as well as an assistant professor ofphysical education. More than that, though, he is a walking, talking advertisement for the Notre Dame athletic program. 
Whether it happens to be football, baskethall or baseball season, O'Sullivan makes time to stop by practice, get out to the games, and talk with the players and coaches. No matter if it's the middle of September or the middle of December, he pops in and out of the offices in the Athletic and Convocation. invariably as­king one question -"Can the Irish do it?" 
And, without fail, he answers his own question before anybody else gets the chance-"Ofcourse they can­they must." 
It's ironic then, almost sad, that O'Sullivan's talented gou· team must peform so far removed from center stage. Notre Dame schedules one, at most two, matches for Burke Memorial Golf Course each spring, but the way O'Sullivan sees it, he has no choice. 

"I could schedule four or five tournaments each spring on Burke, and I'd hreak the coaching records of everyone who's come before here," shrugs O'Sullivan. "But that's not what it's all ahout. I get the better sights and the better competition for my players -it must be that way." 
O'Sullivan's philosophy, combined with the very nature ofgolf, which makes it a ~r:ss-than-idcal spectator sport, means the Irish are on rhl'ir own. So the Irish coach insists hiS' players eat. drink, :-lt-ep -and most i!!lportantly, play -as a team. 
"When you're out there, y·ou'rt· all by yourself, espe-
See O'SULliVAN, page 10 






