Conflicting surveys-page 12 

VOWME XVI, NO. 6 TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER I, 1981
an mdt>pendent student newspaper serving notre dame and saint mary's 

BEIRUT, Lebanon (AP)-Iranian crowds mixed sobs of mourning with chants of "Death to America!" yesterday as the nation buried its president and prime minister as mar­tyrs cut down in Sunday's assassina­tion bombing. 
President Mohammad Ali Rajai, who held the office for 27 days before his death, and Prime Minister MohammadJavad Bahonar, in office for just 25 days, were buried in Teh­ran's Behesht Zahra Cemetery in services that drew a crowd reported numbering 2.5 million people. 
In a speech broadcast by Tehran Radio, Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini promised new elections to replace the "martyrs," vowing their deaths would not alter the course of the Is­lamic fundamentalist revolution that he leads. 
It was the second time in two 

months that Khomeini's top Islamic 
leadership had been wiped out in 
blasts and fire. 
On June 28, an explosion at the headquarters of the ruling Islamic Revolutionary Party killed Ayatollah Mohammad Hussein Beheshti, con­sidered the second-most powerful figure in Iran after Khomeini, and more than 70 other leaders. 
As the funeral procession wound through the streets of Iran, mour­ners demanded the deaths of ex­President Abolhassan Bani-Sadr and opposition Mujahadeen Khalq leader Massoud Rajavi. Both fled to 
HS Studentspay toplay 
ByJOHN BRONSON 
Associated Press Writer 
PITTSBlJRGH (AP) High 

school football teams wm soon be 
defending the athletic honor of 
Uons and Tigers and Bears across 
the land. At halftime, marching 
bands will swarm on the gridiron in 
high-stepping splendor. 
Off the field, math club members 

will twist Rubik's Cubes, and 
choruses will begin practicing for 
Christmas concerts. 
Extracurricular activities are the 

icing on America's academic cake. In 
most communities, they are taken 
for granted. 
But in suburban Bethel Park, stu­dents this year will pay to play. For the first time, kids who want to par­ticipate in various activities are being charged users' fees. 
"Why? Our taxes are very high and we're trying to do anything we can to avoid raising ing them furth," athletic directorJoe Lodge said. 
"Some school districts have flat 

out eliminated their extracurricular 
activities because they simply don't 
have ways to fund them," he added. 
I.odgc was referring to Massachu­setl-!1, where voters approved Proposition 2 last November. That tax-cutting measure: has rcuccd municipal revenues by SSOO million this year. In the· schools, non­academic activities and courses arc bearing the brunt. 
"We're trying to avoid that panic situation. We thought it would be a good idea to get a juntp on what ap­pears to be a trend," I.odgc said in a tdcphonc interview. 
The fcc varies with the activity. Football is tht· most expensive at J3S per student. Boys' basketball is J32, girls' volleyball JIO. Most non­athletic programs, like the astronomy club and the student newspaper, cost a nominal $I or $2. 
I.odge said the amount of equip­ment and supplies used was the criterion for setting the rates. 
Frank I.avalle, director ofbusiness affairs, said Bethel Park spent about 1265,000 on non-academic ac­tivities last year. The figure includes salaries and supplies. 
The fees wiJJ bring in an esti':llated $15,000 to $18,000. "That was enough to be significant, hut not so much in an opening year that it would be outrageous," I.odge said. 
The Bethel Park School District, which has a student population of 6,400, Is located in an aftluent com­munity in the rolling hills south of Pittsburgh. 

Parents look upon the district's education and recreation program with pride. The school also excels in athletics. The football team, 9-3 last year, was the western Pennsylvania runner-up in its category. The bas­ketbal and baseball teams won their· conferences and both the boys' and girls' swimming teams won the state championships last year. 
The new fees have caused hardly a ripple among students, probably be­cause most parents are picking up the cost. But even among the adults, there's been little negative reaction, school officials said.· 
"I can understand what they're trying to accomplish," said John Stil-
Bombing victim 
Iranians tnourn Rajai's death 
Terrorists' bomb rocks US/NATO headquarters 
ley, president ofthe Bethel Park Ath­letic Association, a local booster club. 
"It'sa sad thingwhen people work 4lll their lives and can't afford to stay in their homes when ~hey retire be­cause of the tax structure. I'm not convinced my elderly neighbors 
See PAY, page 5 

Paris in a dramatic July 29 escape aboard a commandeered air force plane. 
A two-man presidential council which assumed executive powers after the explosion in the prime min­ister's office formally announced the deaths of Rajai, 48, and Bahonar, 47, at dawn. It was broadcast in Farsi by Tehran Radio and monitored in Beirut. 
A spokesman at Khomeini's office told the Associated Press by phone 
that the two leaders died hospital of burns and smoke inhala­tion st~ffercd in the fire touched off by the bomb blast. He said five other people were killed and I 5 injured in the blast. 
The presidential council's state­ment blamed the bombing on the United States and on the secular op­position groups that have waged a 
nine-week campaign of urban guer­rilla warfare. Rajavi is the leader of the Islamic­Marxist Mujahedeen Khalq that has 
RAMSTEIN AIR BASE, West Ger­many (AP) -A bomb believed planted by terrorists exploded outside the joint U.S./NATO air command headquarters here ye::;ter­day, wounding a U.S. general, 17 other Americans and two West Ger­mans. 
The blast came at a time of growing opposition by many West Germans to U.S. defense policies. Two weeks ago a American military facility in Berlin was bombed, but there were no injuries. 
No one claimed responsibility for yesterday morning's explosion. West German sources said it was believed to have come from a bomb placed in a Volkswagen sedan in a parking lot outside the headquarters buildings of the U.S. Air Force 
Universitygrants $20,000 to Chautauqua 
ByBD.LKOLB 
News Staff 
Student Body President Don Murday opened the Student Senate's first meeting of the year last night by announcing the Uni­versity's agreement to help finan­cially guarantee the success of the Chautauqua Coffeehouse. 
Terming the $20,000 line of credit "a major commitment to the students," Murday expressed optimism about the Student Uni­on's ability to present "first-rate" shows. "I'm sure people are going to come out," he said. 
According to Mun~ay, half of the fund transfers to the Student Union immediately upon re­quest, the remainder after con­sultation with Mr. Thomas Mason, Vice President for Busi­ness Affairs and Fr. Van Wolvlear, Vice President for Student Affairs. 
Opened on a trial basis by the Student Union last spring, the Chautauqua live entertainment offers live entertainment in an in­

formal environment. I.ocated on the second floor ofI.afortune Stu­dent Center, it operates on a br~ak-even basis. Murday hopes the money enables the Student Union to sponsor -more am­bitious shows. 
In other business, the Senate approved Judicial Coordinator Carol Silva's nominations to the Judicial Review Board. A body comprised of faculty and ad­ministrators, the Board nominees 
include  Juanita  Cleveland,  
Richard  Conklin,  Donald  
Dedrick,  Nancy  Ferran,  Daniel  

Osberger, Sr. Marietta Starrie, Katharina Blackstead, Angie Chamblee, David Dodge, Ber­nard Dobranski, William Eagan and Robert Rodes. 
Before closing the meeting. Murday asked Senate members to form for the benefit of the stu­dent body "a cohesive unit.""You are responsible to whatever group you represent. It's impor­tant we show the students they have a voice." 
been the most at:tive opposition group. 
Both Rajavi and Bani-Sadr, in separate telephone interviews with the AP in Pari:., said the respon· sibility was Kh·.>mcini's because his rigid policies have given rise to the opposition. 
In a recent interview with tht· New York Times, Bani-Sadr predktt·d tht· Iranian govcrnmt·nt would fall If five men were kilkd, including Rajai and Bahonar. Ht· said the other three key figures wen· Hashemi RaJSanjani,the speaker of Parliament; Abdulkarim Musavi Ar­dabili, tht· chief justice; and Ayatol­lah Mohammad Reza Mahdavi Kani, the interior minister. Both are tht· members of the interim presidential council. 
Khomcini, the 81-year-old patriart·h of the revolution that deposed the late Shah Mohammad Reza Pahlavi, told the nation that "Iran cannot be pushed back by as­sassination." 
Europe and the NATO air command. The explosion, which occurred at 
7:20 a.m., catching early arrivals for work, hurled passersby to the ground, shattered windows and in­terior walls up to 100 yards said, AI-

Fifteen people were injuredfrom a bomb blast infront oftbe U.S. Air Force base at Ramstein, West Ger­many.(AP) 
tercd other cars across the lot in flamt·s, witnesses said. A car engine was flung onto the roof of a five­story building. lice said. 
The most seriously injured were Brig. Gen. Joseph D. Moore, assstant deputy chiefofsaff for operations of 
U.S. Air Force Europe, and I.t. Col. Douglas R. Young, an operations of­ficer with the USAFE command. 
Moore's hometown is Myrtle Beach, S.C., and Young's is Glendale, Ariz., tbc Air Force said in Washing­ton. 
Both were reported in stablt· con­dition at the U.S. Army hospital in nearhy I.andstuhl, where they had been taken by helicopter. Air Force officials said several others Injured seriously cnough to be taken to the hospital w1·re treated and releast·d. _ 
"There were two loud blasts, one right after the other -bam! bam! eight as if a Phantom jet haairoken the sound barrier," said Staff Sgt. Harry Baske, an eyewitness. 
"It's a miracle that no one was killed," he said. "A half-an-hour later 
See BOMB, page 5 




News Brie./.§ 
Tuesday, September 1, 1981 -page 2 
c============*==============================~ 
by The Observer and The Associated Press 
Seven separate explosions in uma, Peru, includ­ing blasts at the U.S. Embassy and the residence ofAmbassador Edwin 
G. Corr, caused heavy damage and killed two people today, police reported. The nearly simultaneous explosions shortly after 2 a.m. at the U.S. diplomatic installations coincided with detonations at the Ford Motor Co., the Bank of America and the local distributors of Coca-Cola and the G. Berckemeyer and Co. milk products ad­ministrative offices, which represents Carnation Milk in Peru. The seventh blast was at a private home where a fire killed two people and injured seven others, police said. -AP 
Drivers ended their month-long search 
through the Andrea Doria's murky corpse yesterday and prepared to weigh anchor with a locked safe and an answer to the liner's "last mystery." The divers found the hole that the Stockholm opened in the Andrea Doria's side 2S years ago, expedition leader Peter Gimbel said Sunday. It was so large and so deep, he said, that it ended speculation about whether a missing watertight door caused the ship to sink so quickly. The expedition made what spokeswoman LiUian Pickard termed "a very, very tough decision" to abandon the search for the purser's safe in the first-class lounge. Instead, she said, divers spent yesterday on final filming for a documentary on the expedition. The support vessel Sea Level II was to hoist anchor today and arrive back in Montauk, N.Y., tomorrow. -AP 
A small-town judge who presided ove; the landmark criminal liability trial against Ford Motor Co. has died of cancer in a Winamac hospital. He was 62. Services are planned for Thursday morning for Pulaski Circuit Judge Harold R. Staffeldt, who died late Sunday. Staffeldt once conceded he deserved some criticism for his handling of the 10-week trial-the first criminal trial against a major corporation. Ford was accused in the deaths of three teen-age giris whose 1973 Pinto automobile burst into flames when struck from behind by a van in Elkhart County on Aug. I 0, 1978. The 1980 trial, venued to this northern Indiana farming community of about 2,400, ended when a jury of seven men and five women acquitted the automaker of criminal charges brought by an Elkhart County grand jury. The charges were based on a 1977 Indiana law holding corpora-. tions as well as individuals subject to criminal prosecution. Staffeldt is survived by his wife of 32 years, Helen, and two sons. -AP 
Reflecting growing patience with President Reagan's African policy, a high-level delegation from black African nations called yesterday for immediate steps toward independence for Namibia. However, the delegation carefully avoided any direct criticism of the administration after a meeting of nearly two hours with Secretary ofState Alexander M. HaigJr. The delegation was led by Robert Ouko, foreign minister of Kenya. The administration has been trying to avoid antagonizing black African nations on the Namibian issue while also seeking an agreement for independence for the mineral-rich country that will be accept;tble to South Africa, which has been dragging its heels on relinquishing control of Namibia. Critics have said the Reagan administration's go-slow appro;~ch on the issue is one reason more progress toward Namibian independence has not been made. -AP 
Religious leaders, officials and 2,500 Viennese -both gentiles andJews -walked the narrow cobblestone streets ofthe old city yesterday in a procession mourning victims of the weekend grenade attack on a synagogue. Memorial services were held in the street outside the 155-year-old Israelite Temple, a bouquet offlowers marking a doorstep left bloodstained in the Saturday attack which killed an elderly man and a young woman. Twenty people were injured. Three suspects, described by police as Arabs, were in cus­tody, but the authorities said one appears not to have been involved. Authorities released six others yesterday saying they were not in­volved. Pulice said they did not know who was behind the attack, although one of the suspects claimed ties to the Palestine Liberation Organization. The PLO has repudiated the claim and condemned the attack. -AP 
Chase Manhattan Bank lowered its prime lending rate by one-half of a percentage point to 20 percent today, breaking ranks with the rest ofthe banking industry and sparking new hopes for a sustained decline in interest rates. The move marked the first change in the prime rate since July 8, and analysts said they expected other major banks to follow Chase's lead. Chase is the third-largest bank in the nation. Chase's action followed a better -than-expected money supply report by the Federal Reserve Board on Friday. The Federal Reserve said the basic measure ofthe money supply had declined S3.7 billion in the third week ofAugust. Some economists said that decline would allow the Federal Reserve to provide additional reserves to the banking network, paving the way for further drops in interst rates. The prime rate is the interest banks charge on most shortterm loans to top-rated commercial borrowers. businesses generally are charged at least I percentage point above the prime. The prime rate does not apply to consumer loans. -Ap. ; 
Mostly cloudy and continued warm and humid today with thunderstorms likely. High in the mid to upper 70s. Continued warm and humid tonight and tomorrow with a chance of thun­derstorms. Low tonight in the mid 60s. High tomorrow in the mid to upper 70s. Chance ofrain is 60 percent-today and 30 percent tonight. -AP. 

AP PhotoFile 

VOYAGER RETRANSMITS: The Voyager spacecraft, which hadproblems with Its platform cameras late last week (diagram above), ts now transmitting once again. On the right Is one ofthe first photos obtained from Voyager following repairs, and this view shows some ofthe details and differences in tbe complex system of rings. 
This image came from a distance of2.1 million milesfrom the planet. 
MORE EXPLOSIONS: A bomb bidden under­neath a parked car at Ramstein AirForce Base in West Germany, headquarters ofAllied Air Forces in central Europe, exploded early yesterday morning, injuring 20 persons. A rifle-toting sol­dier in foreground guards the explosion site in back. 
join the 
Design Editor.... ........ Mike Monk 

Notre Dame 
Design Assistants.. ....... Monica Gugle Patty Fox Layout Staff.................................. Barb Daly Bridget Geegan, Sue Poss, Julie Kanak 



Debate Council 
Typesetter .............................................. Ozzie News Editor..................... Cathy Domanico 

compete in debate 
Copy Editor..................... Dave Rickabaugh Sports Copy Editor............. Dave Dziedzic 
·' and 
Systems Control ................... Bruce Oakley ND Day Editor................. Karen McMahon 

individual speech events 
SMC Day Editor....................... Cece Baliles T11pist......................................)eanine Hynes 

travel to other colleges 
Pbotograpber......·............... Unda Shanahan Guest Appearances ................ Lynne Daley Max, Rachel, Griff & Darby 

lie Organizational 
Roger the Fixer, His Sister 

Meeting
and Niece and Nephew The DeviL passing by, noted: "Even ofheU doth it remind me." 

Thursday, September 
WASH. HALL AUD. 7:00 
or call Brother ohn Doran at 

Editorial Board and Department Managers 
Edltor-ln-Cblef.........................................)ohn McGrath SMCExecutive Editor .....................Mary Agnes Carey
Box Q, Notre Dame, iN 46556 
ManaglngEdttor ......................................Tom)ackman SMC News Editor ................................Kathy Domanico 
The qbserver is an independent newspaper published by rhe srudenr~ of the 
Photo Edltor.................................................. .)ohn Macor
Executive News Editor ..............................Lynne Daley
Umversny of Notre Dame duLac and Sainr Mary's College. lr does nor nece~sarilv News Editor.............................................Tim Vercellotti
reflect the policies of the administration of eirher institution. The news 1s reported 
Business Manager ....................................Rich Coppola
News Editor .......................................................Kelli Flint
as ~ccurately and _as ?bjectively as possible. Editorials represent the opinion of a Controller....................................................... .)oe MuUlur Senior Copy Editor ........................ Mary Fran Callahan 
maJority of the Ednonal Board. Commentaries, opinions, and letters are the views Advertising Manager......................................Mark Ellis Sports Editor .........................................Michael Ortman Production Manager.............................. Michael Monk
of thetr authors. Column space is available to all members of the communit\. and Features Editor ....................................Anthony Walton Circulation Manager ..................~ ....Tom MacLennan 
the free expression of varying opinions on campus. through letters. is encouraged' 

Tuesday, September 1, 1981-page 3 
The Observer 





By MIKE SCHIER 
News Staff 
WSND, Notre Dame's student-run radio station, plans to hold auditions Sept. 1 and Sept. 2 from 6 p.m. to 11 
p.m. on the first floor of O'Shaugnessy Hall. Positions remain open in announcing. reporting. production, sales, promotion, public relations, and engineering. The job openings require no prior ex­perience. 
WSND station manager Tom Nes­singer said "there will be no significant changes in either the AM or FM line-ups this year. We'll just continue building on the basic programs developed three years ago." 1978 marked the addition of a music format to the AM station and an overall empha~is on variety for both stations. 
AM programmer Kevin Leitten an­nounces his station's new slogan as the alternative. "We basically stick to Billboard's top one hundred, but requests always take priority. We don't want to be labelled as a hard rock station or as a pop station, says l.citten. 
Nes.<tinger labels WSND-AM unique because of its attempt to of­fer new bands and new releases con­siderable airtime. 
Slight changes in this year's news coverage include expanded news programs at midnight and 6 p.m.; a Talk it up show currently in the plan­ning stages; and a guest interview program dealing with on-campus personalities, slated for Thusday evenings from I 0:30-I I p.m. In addi­
tion,  a  P.H.S.  series,  ·Energy  
Perspecti ves,  airs  offered  in  one  
minute  intervals  throughout  the  
day.  

Bob Lewandowski's Sports Inter­view, offered during the expanded 6p.m. news, marks this year's major sports addition. Interviews with sports personalities such as Art Schliester, Bob Griese, Bear Bryant, as well a'i all opposing football coaches constitute the format. Other sports programming includes Sports Showcao;e at 6-7p.m. Wednes­days, Speaking of Sports at 12-12:30 Wednesday evenings, and Sports Sunday at II a.m. to noon. 
WSND-FM, a non-advertising clas­sical station, continues this year with its airing of in-house special produ<.·tions and live orchestra con­certs. Kris Allen, FM program dircc­tor, emphasizes the variety her station offers in the classical realm as well. "We try to avoid overdoing the same old worn out works. We stay away from repeating the favorites, both modern and ancient, and in­troduce fresh works as much as pos­sible, Allen said. 
The station regularly offers concerts of the Boston Symphony, Metropolitan Opera, New York Phil­harmonic, Chicago Symphony, and Milwaukee Symphony. By courtesy of the University Artist Series, WSND-FM this year offers the Cleveland 6rchestra, which Allen terms one ofthe best. 

Other new programming includes Professor Danehy's theme show Operas from Shakespeare on Sunday nights and a talk show Encounters, currently without a time slot. 

ATTENTION 
PREMED MAJORS 
NEED FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE? 
The Air Force needs doctors. So, we may help finance your college education with an Air Force ROTC scholarship. . 
We have three and two-year AFROTC PreHealth Profes­sions Scholarships for qualified applicants. These scholarships pay full tuition, lab and incidental fees, books, plus $100 a month (tax free) during the school year. Upon completion of Air Force ROTC and bac­calaurf,!ate degree requirements, you'll be commissioned as an Air Force second I ieutenant. When accepted to medical school, additional assistance for medical school expenses is guaranteed with an Armed Forces Health Pro­
A&Ldean 

Burns seeks 'senseofcollege' 
By CAROL CAMP 
News Staff 
Dr. Robert Burns will assume the position of acting dean of the Col­lege of Arts and Letters during the 1981-1982 school year. 
Commenting on his qualifications for the task, Dr. Burns stated, "I've been at Notre Dame for twenty-four years and I know the College inside and out -I had better!" 
The dean received his under­graduate degree in history at Nor­theastern University in Boston in 1948, and earned his Ph.D in 1960 at Harvard. Since 1957, he served as part of Notre Dame's history depart­ment, teaching British, European, and Irish history, as well as Western history. He maintained a role in ad­ministrative work in various capacities since 1968. 
Dr. Burns describes his views concerning the strengths and weaknesses of the College of Arts and Letters as an examination of the needs arid goals ofthe college. 
The College needs to develop more interdisciplinary programs, Dr. Burns stated, adding "Notre Dame is much less interdisciplinary than its peer institutions." He believes this results from the as­sociation of faculty members to their department rather than with the college as a whole. 
''In other words, we need to develop a better sense of college," he said. 
The dean noted the progress ac­hieved through the development of the Arts and Letters Pre-Professional 
•••e••••••••••••••••••••••••••• 
*********AIII~IIU~******** 


Clubs and organizations wishing to apply for 
Activity Fee Funding must pick up forms in Student Activities Office, Deadline for submitting completed applications is 
Tuesday September 15, 5 :00 P· M · 
••..••••••••••ee••••••••••••e•• 
fessions Scholarship. Get together with an Air Force ROTC representative and discuss these two programs. It may be the most import­ant talk you've ever had about your future. 
Call Capt. Gottrich, Notre Dame ROTC (28 3-66 3 5) for more information, 
program and an increasing interest among students and faculty in Middle Eastern affairs. Dr. Burns said he plans to continue this trend in the coming year. 
The Harvard graduate com­mented on his commitment to the developement of a London ex­change program at the University. Dr. Burns said he anticipates that this program, "will serve as an en-



Board of Governance begins busy year 
By CINDY COLDIRON 

News Staff 
During . Sunday's first official meeting of the Saint Mary's student government the topics discussed ranged from food sales to activities night. 
As a result of the SMC Snack Bar 

· Sunday night closing. food sales will take place in the LeMans Lobby from 7 to 11 p.m. Activities Night starts tomorrow at 7 p.m. in the Angela Athletic Facility. The event provides Notre Dame and Saint Mary's clubs and or­ganizations with an opportunity to provide information to prospective members. The SMC student government an­
richment of all major programs in 
the college be<:ause it Is an idea 
whose time has come." 
Dr. Burns states that "we've come a long way in 24 years, hut we still have a long way to go. 
"The idea of a first-rate university in a Catholic context is extraordi­nary. No other school in the t:nited States can b<.· Catholic and great," he said. "We arc the hest hope in 1981." 
nounced the plans for a Labor Day 
Block Party in the LeMans Courtyard 
Courtyard with relay races and vol­
leyball games scheduled as the 
major events. 
The organization plans to sponsor an Energy Awareness Week from September 14 to 18. The activities composing the event include the showing of the film "Energy and Morality" and the presentation of a 
lecture by Notre Dame Physic11 Professor Dr. Gerrit Levey, a mem­ber of the Indiana Council of Bis­hops, on the views of his group on energy conservation. The student government approved the showing of two outdoor movies, "The Hunchback of Notre Dame" and "The Attack of the Killer Tomatoes," for Friday in Moreau Courtyard. 


BOTC 
Gateway to a great way of life. 
--·---------------------­

The Observer Tuesday, September 1, 1981 -·page 4 
IRS warning 


Banks suspend progratns 

By LOUISE COOK asking what to do. "We don't know," AssociatedPress W1'1ter he said. IRS spokesmen said yesterday 
Many banks and savings and loan they did not know when a final associations temporarily suspended ruling on the subject would be bonus programs tied to All Savers issued. 
Certificates ycstt:rday, because of The one-year All Savers Certifites confusion over an Internal Revenue were authorized by Congress as part Service warning about possible tax of the rec<:nt tax cut. They will be problems with the high-interest available beginning Oct. I for a IS­deals. month period. The interest rate will 
"It's really a buyer-beware situa­be equal to 70 percent of the inter­tion," said Randy Renken, a spokes­est on one-year Treasury bills. A man for the National Bank of South · maximum of $1,000 in interest ­Dakota. "A lot of people are calling $2,000 for married couples · will be and we're telling them to at least exempt from federal income tax. wait to give us a chance to talk to the Financial institutions trying to get IRS." customers to deposit money in ad­
In Atlanta, Kevin G. Kidd, vice vance of Oct. 1 have been offering 
high-interest promtional deals. Inpresident of the Bank of the South, general, the bonuses work like this:said the institution was suspending invest now in something called aits high-interest offer "until further "repo" or repurchase agreement ­clarification from the IRS." 
a sort ofloan to the financial institu­Jim Kendall of the U.S. League of tion which pays a high annual rate ofSavigs Associations said member in­interest.
stitutions were calling the league On Oct. 1, your investment willoffices in Chicago and Washington, be converted, usually automatically, 
Ifyou're goingtotakegrueling business courses,you'll needallthehelpyoucanget. 

You'll need a financial calculator made by the people who invented the handheld financial calculator and have led the way ever since. You'll need a calculator with all the functions and power you could ever require. 

· ·· You'll need a Hewlett-Packard. · 
TheHP-38C. 
All the help 
you can get. 
The HP-38C Advanced Finan­cial Programmable 

Memory gives you the most extensive set of financial functions available in a handheld calculator. And, an easy-to-use programming capability. 
So visit your nearest ,HP dealer fm a hands-on demonstration. And check out the dynamic HP-37E business model, too. Then buy an HP. It may be the last easy thing you do for a long time. 
For details and the address of the, dealer in your area, call toll free: 800-547-3400, Dept. 658N, except Hawaii and Alaska. In Oregon, call 758-1010. Or write Hewlett-Packard, Corvallis, OR 97330, Dept. 658N. 

HEWLETT 
PACKARD 
into an All Savers Certificate. Some institutions have been offering cash bonuses; others promise annual in­terest rates of up to 50 percent on the "repo" part ofthe deals. 
On Saturday, however, the IRS in an unusual weekend announcement · said it had "substantial doubt about (the) income tax consequences" of the package investments. 

It added: "interest from All Savers Certificates issued under the condi­tions stated in advertisements placed by financial institutions may not qualify for tax-free treatment un­der the 1981 act." 
The IRS did not give any specific reasons for its warning. 
One possible problem is that many of the programs make the in­terest payments on the "repos" con­ditional on the customer's investment in an All Savers Cerif­icate. 

If the customer does not buy a certificate, he or she forfeits the in­terest on the "repo." If the "repo" and the certificate are considered as one transaction, the total interest paid could be higher than 70 per­cent of the rate on one-year Treasury bills. That would make the investment ineligible for the tax ex­emption. 
Some institutions said that they did not require reinvestment in an All Savers Certificate and therefore thought their programs were safe. 
For example,Joe Scully, president of St. Paul Federal Savings & loan in Chicago, said that customers who in­vested in repurchase agreements had signed authorizations to have their money converted into All Savers Certificates, but people who chose to revoke the authorizations would not be penalized. "We don't have the linkage problem as far as I know," he said. "We have two separate plans and they are not inter­dependent." 

Adding to the confusion, meanwhile, was the fact that several federal regulatory agencies were considering whether to allow people to withdraw money from certificates of deposit, without the usual penalties, to invest in the All Savers Certificates. 
The Federal Deposit Insurance Corp., with authority over 9,300 state-chartered banks, said Monday that such withdrawals would be allowed. 

Aerobic 
class 

slated 

An aerobic exercise class will be held regualrly beginning this week: on the second floor of the Rockne Memorial. The class will meet on Mondays, Tuesdays and Thursdays from 4: 15 to 5:15 p.m. This car­diovascular exercise program will be open to all Notre D1me women free of charge. Please bring student IDs. 
~*****~**********~ 
* *
* *
~Bu11 ~ 
* ~ * 
* *
*;. ** 
* * 

~ Observer :
* *
* *
* ' * 
* * 
* l ifid

: c assz e s...: 
* * 
* * 
: * ** 


:NOW''':••• ~
* 
: * 
................: 

~----------------------------~------~------~---­
The Observer 
/ 
Tuesday, September 1, 1981 -page 5 
Four states hit 
Lightning bolt caus~s blackout 

Cyrus King ofGrace Hall looks forward to a Notre Dame Food Service meal after a long watt In line. (photo by Linda Shanahan) 
• • .Bomb 

and there would have been a mas­sacre." 
Shortly after the explosion, security guards scaled off the base to all but "mission essential" person· nel. Military police in full battle dress and carrying M -16 rifles ringed the parking area. But Air Force spokesman Maj. Tracy McCollester insisted base operations continued normally. 
U.S. Officials also stepped up security at other installations in West Germany, where some 260,000 U.S. troops are stationed. 
In Frankfurt, military police. searched for bombs at the post ex· change, the hcadquartcs orthe U.S. V corps and other installations with­out turning up any further devices. 
The West German Federal Criminal Office took over the inves­tigation ofthe Ramstein explosion. 
The explosion occurred shortly after 7 a.m. local time and apparently came from an automobile parked in a lot in front of the adjacent head­quarters buildings of the U.S. Air Force Europe and ofthe North Atlat· nk Tn·aty Organization air com­mand, West German police said. 
Witnesses said the bomb, which went off as the first stream of civilians and military personnel were reporting for work, shattered car windshields and blew out ·win­dows and interior walls in nearby buildings. 

"Thank the Lord the explosion oc­curred before most people reported for work or we would have had a lot more injuries," an Air Force spokes­man said. He said damage was ex­tensive. 
A spokesman at the West German Federal Criminal Office in nearby Karlsruhe told The Associated Press that German ()authorities believe the explosion was the work of ter­r~>rists, but he gave no further details. No group claimed responabllity. 
"The cause of the explosion has not been determined," a brief Air Force statement said. 
U.S. officials denied Ger­man radio reports that a second bomb was found near the base. 
Yesterday's blast was the second this month aimed at U.S. milltary facilities in Germany. On Aug. 18, small pipebombs exploded at a U.S. garrison in West Berlin, causing minor damage, but no injuries. 
DENVER (AP)-A lightning bolt 

knocked out electrical power yes­
terday to more than 150,000 cus­
tomers in most of Montana, 
southern Idaho, northern Wyoming 
and one Colorado town, utility 
spokesmen said. 
An estimated 150,000 Montana 

Power Co. customers east of the 
Continental Divide lost electricity 
when lightning hit a 340-kilovolt 
line between Four Corners, N.M., 
and Pinto, Utah, Montana Power 
spokesman Russ Cox said. 
The blackout just after midnight 

also affected 1,800 people in south­
ern Idaho and 80 in southwestern 
Colorado. An undetermined num­
ber were affected in Wyoming's Big 
Horn Basin. 
Montana Power lost its entire sys­tem -three coal-fired plants and 13 hydroelectric units. The plants tripped off automatically to protect themselves from a power surge from the lightning, Cox said. 
The Montana blackout )last two 

hours in most areas, but Cox said 
some remote areas were still out af­
ter dawn yesterday. 
Some· Montanans were late for 

work because electrical alarm 
• • . Pay 

should have to pay for my son to play 
football. But on the other hand, I'm 
concerned that they may want more 
and more in fees later," he said. 
Jim Treher, president of the Bet­

hel Citizen Association, a loosely or­
ganized civic group that keeps a 
sharp eye on taxes, is deligted with 
the idea. 
"If we want these extravaganzas 

every Friday night for football and 
the debating socety and so on, that's 
fine, but I don't think citizens should 
have to pay for that," he said. 
Education is big business in Bet· 

hel Park. The district budgeted 
$19.4 million in 1980 and plans to 
spend $20.6 miUion this year. The 
1981-82 tax rate is a hefty 69.5 mills, 
up by 5.85 mills in 1980. 
That means the school tax bill for 

a typical homeowner with a house 
valued at S100,000 will be about 
$1,750, Lavalle said. 
Lodge said the new fees haven't 

caused any drop in the number of 
students reporting for fall sports. 
And even though taxes are steadi­ily climbing here as elsewhere, there 1 appears to be little appetite for 
following the Massachusetts ex· 
ample of wholesale slashing of 
programs and activities. 
"I do recognize that given a 

choice between soccer and math, I 
would pick math," Lodge said. "But I 
genuinely believe athletics is an ex­
tension of education. It's an impor­
tant part of the rounded experience 
we offer to these kids." 
Word of Bethel Park's strategy is 

already making the rounds in 
academic circles and other school 
districts have called asking for 
details. 
"I expect this to happen more and 

more," said Lavalle. "I think that if 
~ople find we're not getting too 
much flak, they may try it, too." 
clocks went otf late and Mountain tween Montana Power and Bell spokeswoman Crystal Hahn said Washington Water Power Co. to the telephone numbers for a record· maintain service there, he said. ing ofthe time "were really busy." Idaho Power Co. spokesman Bob 
Brown said hydroelectric units at Striker, Thousand Springs, Twin
"The Montana black­

Falls and Shoshone Falls went out, affecting about 1,800 customers in
out lasted two hours 

Boise, Twin Falls and Salmon for two hours.
in most areas ... 

In northern Wyoming, Buffalo, some remote areas Sheridan and Lovell lost power for about 10 minutes, said Bob Taran­were still out after tola of Pacific Power & light Co., as 
did oil fields in the Big Horn Ba~in.
dawn yesterday." 
Seibert said Colorado-Ute Power Co. in weskrn Colorado reporte a 230-kilovolt line tripped, causingThe blackout did not affect Butte one coal-fired plant to shut down Missoula and other points west of briefly and creating a blackout in 
the divide, Cox said. There were ap­Mancos, a town ofabout ROO peopleparently sufficient connections be-in southwestern Colorado. 
Judge grants last wish to dying woman 
HUNTINGTQN, W.Va. (AP) -the liver. Golda Yoder, whose last wish was Dr. Donald Klinestlver said he un­that she be freed from life support plugged the respirator at 9:26 p.m. machines, died yesterday night nine "There wa~ a cessation ofcardiac ac­minutes after a doctor unplugged tivity at 9:3'5," he said . the system. The doctor said Mrs. Yoder 
The action had been approved probably would not have lived more earlier in the day by Cabell County tha a day·even with the support sys· Circuit Judge D.B. Daugherty, but tern. She was in coma at the time of only after Daugherty was told the her death and was not aware ofwhat 76-year-old woman already was was happening, he said. "brain dead." During a hearing yesterday in 
Mrs. Yoder's last wish had divided Daugherty's court, Klinestlver her family and put Daugherty on the received a message from the hospi· spot last we"ek when she asked to be tal that the woman's condition had disconnectd from machines that deteriorated rapidly. He passed a were keeping her alive despite near­note to Daugherty which said: ly constant pain. Doctors said she "puplls are dllated and fixed. This in­was dying of incurable cirrhosis of dicates brain death." 
Student Players 
announces open auditions for its production of 
~ 
THE ODD COUPLE 
to be perforOJ.ed Oct. 30 & 31 & Nov. 6 & 
Auditions will be held in Chautauqua (LaFortune Ballroom 2nd Floor) 
Tues., Sept 1 at 7 pm & Wed., Sept 2 at 8:45 pm 
Also: a productiop. meeting for all interested will be held at 6:30 in Chautauqua on Sun. Sept. 6 


·I 
I 


Tuesday, September 1, 1981 -page 6


Features 
Strangeness on a new level: Duke at Doobies 
Ramon Duke 

I tried the rear gate, where a huge
Editor's Note: Observer readers 

white blob was much more
may remember Ramon Duke from 

agreeable. I couldn't really focus on
his expose last March in which be 

his face, but all I had to do was give
uncovered "Fear and Loathing at 

my name, and the words "Ramon
Mardt Gras." With his sidekick 

D'Allures, Duke" immediately gained me
Wilile "Zoot" they 

entrance.
revealed a viciousplot by the clergy 

Some minutes later, I located the
to siphon offmoneyfrom the gam­

press box, which is located some­
blingprofits, followed by the repor· 

where just west of Elkhart, and
ters' extended leave from the 

about the farthest place you can be
University. 

from the stage at the ACC. I was
Unfortunately, Duke was the on­

crowded into a backrow seat next to
ly reporter available on Sunday 

two locals who were surgically at­
night, when the Doobie Brothers 

tached at the lips, and noted my only
and Michael Stanley Band visited 

convenience to be a location where
the ACC. He agreed to do the story, 

I could consume the necessary
but we reached him only half an 

supply of narcotics to wire me
hour before tbe show. Wishing to 

through the show without protest.
carry on in the finest Gonzo jour­

Already on stage was the Michael
nalism traditions established by 

Stanley Band. And one thing is for
his forefather, Raoul Duke, and a 

certain -Michael Stanley wishes he
mythical character, Dr. Hunter S. 

were Bruce Springsteen. But until

Thompson, Ramon staggered to the 

his band acquires the requisite
concert under a variety of in· 

energy and material, they will have Love You," which stirred the dvr­modified
fluences. We pick up the story as arrangements gave each who didn't seem to be enjoying this 
to remain content with the title of mant encore.
Duke arrives in the parking lot. Domers. After their bandmember his own solo time, and trip too much. He died shortly after,
Most Popular Band in Cleveland, which provided me time for two
It was just after I pulled up the sharp harmoni~s. most notably on and the band later became extraor­
Ohio. They can't make that claim in more Black Beauties in the dark, "One Step Closer," led by Michael
emergency brake that the first rush dinarily famous. Too damn famous if 
too many other places yet, Notre they were off, satisfied I guess with
hit. It was a blinding, superfine flash McDonald's backup inversions, you ask me. 
Dame included. In fact, the half-full being a backup band to bigger fish punched the tunes through 
athat veteran mescaline eaters come The Doobies closed out theO'Laughlin Auditorium at Saint like the Doobs.

to look forward to. If I had been remarkably clean sound set up at the regular set with everybody's fave,
Mary's gave MSB a louder reception The intermission seemed overly Bands the oc­
ACC. at ACC can

driving, I might now be wrapped "China Grove," and again the band 
around a sturdy telephone pole, but last winter than the ACC Sunday long, especially ~lS my temples casionally sound as ifplaying during rendered a flawless but indistinctnight. Of course, we're all aware of pulsed at I ~0 beats per second,
luck was with me on this twisted an electric storm, but the Doobies version. Maybe it was just the nar­night. the popularity of freon on the SMC while a senseless second sound had no problem.· 
cotics, but nothing stood out abOut Instead, I was only temporarily campus, and that makes a difference. check took place by the sleazoid "Real Love," keyboardist this show. Yeah, there was im­There was a definite possibility that ants on the distant stage. I made a
immobilized, happily. When I was at McDonald's recent hit from the One provisation every half-hour (no
this crowd was under heavy seda­short run, to the refreshment stand, Step Closer album was another sharp
last sane enough to switch off the great individuals made an impact on
tion. ;.here footlong iguanas were being
I 00 watt Pioneer receiver installed performance with a new, tight en­my distorted brain), but little else ­
in my passenger seat, along with a MSB is a Midwestern hybrid of sold in hot dog buns for $1.25. I ding, and it focused the attention no humor, no spontaneity, no fun. I one part Bob Seger and two parts watched an Indiana mongoloid more on
Bang-Olufsen tape deck, I instead completely the band's didn't expect much from a band 
turned the dial to "RADIO." An in­newest center of attention. MichaelSpringsteen. Stanley himself has down one while we were waiting in with such a cutesy name (no respectcommented that he judges all music line, and I nearly choked. What did joined Doobies in
credible sound blast from my Mar­McDonald the for the law, these freaks), but for 
shall amplifiers knocked me by a Springsteen standard, and his these people take that I didn't? And 1975, and gave the band a stimulant 
S12.50 a pop, a paying spectator
band has an identical lineup to the E he paid for the still writhing creature it needed at a valley in their career.
backwards, as Foghat ro~ed should expect some S\\ eat, or at
Street Band. Their mainstream rock too. Strangeness on a new level.
through my sports car at (} 80 Coming to the band after the least a set longer than 80 minutes,
is agreeabl~. but not outstanding. miserable Stampede, McDonald
decibels. An artificial rush, but which was what these oldsters
Chord progressions are predictable, 
showed not only that Steelr Dan, his but not offensive, and their first big
enough to propel me quickly from clo<;.ked in at. 
last group, sure knew how to pick

the car toward the ACC. "I encountered The perfunctory encore opened
Top 40 hit this summer, "He Can't
The Doobie Brothers are not my 'em, but that the Doobies were with a new song I've never heard
this humid summer's AM radios like a 
favorite band, and Michael Stanley Love You," blasted through a large green smart ~ hell to get bini into their before, but the chances are it was 
band. Only guitarist Patrick Sim­

didn't interest me too much, but I lizardwearing a perfectly recognizable, and I was
momentary breath of air condition­mons remains from the original
felt I had to get the story, regardless not. I had become entranced by the what substaru::es were coursing ing. Of course, it was keyed by blue ACC blazer... " Doobies lineup, but McDonald has 
multi-colored lights above the stage, through my veins. And that was Clarence Clemons' hot intro and more charisma on stage, even from which flickered in patterns perfectly
tenor sax break, but what's the diff, behind the keyboard, and the
definitely going to be a task, espe­acceptable to my psychedelic mood

right? Stanley's own sax man, Rick teenage girls screamed the loudest
cially since I had neither press pass Many frisbees were being tossed 
When I returned to earth, Domers
Bell, shamelessly steals direct licks -the most flashbulbs, always an in­
nor money to enter the arena with. by the anxious crowd, often were singing along amiably with
from Clemons, some traceable to in­tense visual, went off -when the
But my editors at The Observer, transforming themselves into gyrat­
"Listen to the Music," which like
dividual songs. But when he elects bearded heartthrob was introduced.
those cretinous louts, had informed ing orange vultures as they soared most of the show was good but it
to play a clearer tone, dropping the over the But crowd McDonald has also become the
me that a pass would be waiting at crowd. the was not supremely inspiring. Sim­
rasp that is the "Big Man's" brains behind the band, writing all of
Gate 2. The sky was changing colors showed no interest in the live 
mons bounced around the stage
trademark, his sound more their most recent chart hits. But
as 1approached, often flashing into a animals above them, and l'he aging with some energy, but he's been at luminous, bright shade of yellow, resembles someone like David San­Doobie Brothers didn't take the even though they've had monstrous this game since at least 1971, when
born, and fits in just as well with the sales and swept up Grammys like a
but no one else was noticing. When I stage until after 9 p.m., two hours af­the band released their first LP, so
rest ofthe band.
got to the door, I encountered a ter my initial intake. The blotter was bunch of discarded Trifecta tickets, what can you expect? The rest ofthe
The group is nice enough, I NO crowd could get
large green lizard with a blue ACC kicking in marvelously as Cornelius the not band wasn't much younger, and 
suppose, and they closed their motivated. It is my theory that one
blazer. I mumbled something about Bumpus opened the show with a even Michael McDonald checked in a pass, maintaining composure su­regular set, after a string of un­deft jazz sax solo, but it was the day rock bands, when they start rol­
with some gray hairs. But we cer­
memorable sof)gs from their new al­ling out the dry ice fog at concerts,
perbly as this reptile questioned me, bongos and familiar bas~ run that tainly wouldn't want to attribute 
but he knew ofno pass. Bastards. clued tlie sizable crowd in to "Takin
bum North Coast, with "He Can't should combine that worthless gas 
that to any illicit substances, al­it to the Streets," an early hit from with amyl nitrite, enough to reach 
though certain kinds might not have the album ofthe same name. Quick­the padded seats at least. It would 
hurt the band on this evening. ly, they stomped illlto "Jesus is Just 
definitely motivate the crowd, con­

One encore and out. Hell yes. Alright," another crowd-pleaser 
servatively speaking, and several 

Back to the hotel man, out of this from the early day:>, setting an up­heart attacks could occur. But it In an hour and
dump. about 35 0 0 ter.tpo pace that ledl through an uni­minutes, and I don't ev<:_n want to 
would be excitement, eh? nterrupted string of four songs 
Not even "What a Fool Believes," 

hear what that averages out to per which sent a temporary surge 
the huge single that you heard even 

second. Probably enough to keep through the quiet crowd. Apparent­
in the shower a couple ofyears ago, 

.Gary, Indiana stoned for several ly, quaalude dealers have been doing 
got these guys on their feet. Another 

months. Although the people in a banner business in South Bend
I)tAD 
set of multi-part harmonies, the 

Gary are already hardened by a these days, and it shows at decadent 
band's trademark, marked the 

variety of different smokes, not all gatherings such as rock concerts. renowned chorus, but nothing 
pleasant.I probably could have used some could appeal to this drugged 
But off these stupid tangents. Byquaaludes at this point too, for my audience, short of Pink Floyd's the time I finally returned to the uni­

ooii3Jts· 
head was spinning like a Duncan yo­"Shine on Crazy Diamond," which ve~ in the Milky Way, it was late 
yo doing a Walk the Dog. And geez might rouse the mass of metha­run
Monday, and the fascists who was it wild watching the c.eiling, qualone addicts. 
The Observer demanded a story for 
fans, stage and floor go by my head Meanwhile, guitarist Simmons their Tuesday pages. Geez, who can continuously in a m~1tter ofseconds. ventured all the way up to the bleac­rush gonzo genius, you know? The It seemed like hours as the tremen­hers with his radio-equipped guitar, only solution was straight, direct dous rush sent me into semi­a nice touch for those of us without quantities of Wild Turkey over ice,consciousness, but as an adept either high-powered binoculars or followed by intense sessions at this gonzo journalist, I missed none of extraordinary speed. In fact, the last infernal typewriter. Now there arethe songs in fact. The Brothers person I can remember to perform sloth-faced drug addicts pawing atpulled out that backlog of Top 40 such a feat was Angus Young, the 19­my door, begging my patronage inhits from the last ten years, and year-old lead axe for AC-DC, when their supply ofillicit drugs. Have weplayed all the familiar name tunes they open~d for Aerosmith several reviewed the concert yet? Ah ... yes,with a precision that was not, years ago. But then, he was on the up there. Right. Yes, yes, come in.
surprisingly, repetitive. Slightly shouldecl of lead singer Bon Scott,
-

The Observer Tuesday, September 1, 1981-page 7 ' 

ANNOUNCING THREE NEW ARMY NATIONAL GUARD PROGRAMS THAT CAN HELP YOU PAY FOR COLLEGE. 
Ifyou're like many col­lege students, the closer you get to your degree, the deeper you get into debt. But, you don't have to get in over your head. Not when you join the Army National Guard. 
Because now, the Guard has three new programs to help you pay for college: the College Loan Repayment Pro­gram; the Educational Assistance Program, and the 
Enlistment Bonus Program. 
And you don't have to wait for 
graduation to take advantage 
ofthem. You couldjoin the 
Guard right now. · 
You see, the Army Na­
tional Guard is part-time. Mter 
yourinitial training, it takes 
JUSt two days a month and two 
weeks of annual training a 
year to serve. So there's plenty 
of time left for your studies. 
And you get paid for every 
hour you put into the Guard, 
so you 11 have extra cash for 
boOks, lab fees, and all those 
other little expenses that 
come up. 

Ofcourse, there's more 
to the Guard than money. It's a chance to do something good for your CQUI).try, as well as for · people right in your own com-
The Guard is America at its best. 
ARMY NATIONAL 
GUARD 
Call toll-free: S<X>-638-7600. 
munity. The Guard can give you more options in your life-· and more control over your financial future. 
Ifthat sounds like where you want to be, see your fi­nancial aid officer, contact your local Army National Guard recruiter, or use the toll­free number below for com­plete details on how the Guard can help you pay for college. And help in a lot ofother ways, too. But hurry! These special programs for college students are available for a limited time only. · 
In Hawaii: 737-5255; Puerto Rico: 723-4550; Virgin Islands (St. Croix): 773-6438; Maryland: 728-3388; in Alaska, consult your local phone directory. 
Program tenns, payment amounts and eligibility requirements subject to change. All programs not available in aU states. 
( 

f I f f f 
L 
~~(),.tS~~=---==-=·-===========================T=ue=s=da=y=,S=e=pt~e=m=be=r=l='=19=8=l==p=a=ge~8 

Football ticket distribution begins today. All 
Notre Dame and "iaint Mary's students who purchased season footl1all tickets during the summer should report to the ticket windows at Gate 3 of the Athletic and Convocation Center. The following dates have been designated for picking up student football tickets: Seniors -today. Juniors and all undergraduate students tn tbetr ninth semester or btgber. -tomorrow. Sophomores/Graduate/Law Stu­dents -Thursday. Freshmen -Friday. The ticket windows will be open from 8 a.m. until 5 p.m. including the noon hour. The Gate 3 doors ofthe ACC will be open at 7:30a.m. The football ticket commit­tee reminds students that the seats in the student section have NOT been preassigned by the Ticket OffiQC. Therefore, ifas student wishes to sit with a specific classmate, they must present their IDs together for adjacent seating. No student may present more than four IDs.Band members and prospective band members should check with band officials regarding ticket distribution procedures. Married students who purchased tickets during the summer should report to the ACC with their respective class on the scheduled day. When picking up their tickets, they must present evidence of their marital status. Any student who has not filled out a 1981 student football ticket applica­tion mst have done so by 5 p.m. yesterday. Since theJune 21 deadline 
has passed, ticket availability will be on a conditional basis. -Tbe Observer 
Saint Mary's Athletics Department is accpeting ap­plications for the position of varsity track coach for the 1981-82 season. Salaried position. Track experience preferred. For further in­formation call 284-5849. -The Obseroer 
Tryouts for the Saint Mary'svolleyball team will 
be held Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday, Sept. 1-3 at 4 p.m. in An­
gela Athletic Facility. All students are encouraged to tryout. -For fur­
ther information contact Erin Murphy, Director of Athletics and 
Recreation, at 4479. -The Obseroer 
Sign-ups begin tomorrow for two new in­
tramural sports -co-ree water polo and outdoor volleyball. Entries will be accepted at the NVA office in the ACC until Sept. 9. -The Obseroer 
John Shumate, a former all-America basketball player at Notre Dame and a seven-year NBA veteran, is joining the Irish coach­ing staff Shumate will serve as a volunteer assistant to Digger Phelps, in addition to serving as an assistant to the University's placement director in the area of minority recruitment. Although plagued by illness that caused him to miss one year ofcollege ball, and two-and-a­half years in the NBA, Shumate is the ninth leading scorer in Notre Dame basketball history, and owns the career field goal percentage record(.610). Afrrst-rounddraft pick by Phoenix in 1974, and a mem­ber of the NBA's all-rookie team the next season, Shumate played for five pro teams before retiring last season. -The Observer 
11te Notre Dame swim teams will hold their organizational meetings tomorrow in room 218 of the Rockne Memorial Eluilding. Upperclassmen will meet at 4p.m. and upperclas­swomen will meet at 4:30p.m. Freshmen men and freshmen women will meet at 5 p.m. -The Observer 
11te Ultimate Frisbee Club meets daily at 3:3o 
p.m. on the Notre Dame library field. Newcomers arc always welcome. --The Obseroer 
Notre Dame'swrestlingteam wm hold its organiza­tional meetingon Friday in the ACC auditorium at 4:30p.m. Freshmen and other intereted students are encoraged to attend to learn more about the varsity program. For more information, call Brother Joe Bruno at 7454. -The Obseroer 
lnter·hall Athletic Commissioners are 
asked to contact the Office ofNon-Varsity Athletics as soon as possible so that a complete list ofdorm commissioners can be comP-iled. Please eithercall6100 orstop by the NVA office in t_fte ACC.~ The Obseroer. 
Notre Dame's fencing teamwill hotd it organiza­
tional meeting on Thursday at 7 p.m. in Room 411 of the Administra­
tion Building. All members of last year's varsity team should attend. 
For more information, call Rich at 8981. -The Observer 
Hermann's successor 
Campbell, Gates vie for PU job 
WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind.. -~AP) Purdue University has had a long line of top-notch quarterbacks, including Len Dawson, Bob Griese, Mike ·Phipps and, of course, Mark Herrmann. 
The latest candidates for the pres­tigious position, now battling for the starting spot vacated by the graduated Hermann, are Scott Campbell and Larry Gates. Campbell has the job for now, but Gates won't let him relax a minute. 
"The competition is friendly, and it makes us better players, from which we get a better team," says Gates, who figured to be Herrmann's backup quarterback last year before a summer auto accident sidelined him for the season. 
"I feel like I've finally got an op­portunity," said Gates, whose lean, 6-foot-5 build and drop-back passing form are reminiscent of Herrmann. "I just hope to have a good preseason and work hard on the things I've been doing." 
Campbell was thrown into action as.a starter against Notre Dame in his first collegiate game as a freshman last year when Herrmann was out with a thumb injury. Purdue lost 31­10, but Campbell completed 17 of 26 passes for 178 yards and no inter­ceptions. 
"I was very nervous at the start of the Notre Dame game," he said. "But that experience will help me this year. I showed last year that I can do the job. It helped my confidence." 
Campbell, a 6-foot, 197-pound sophomore, is quite different from Herrmann. He's smaller, a better runner and has a different per­sonality. As a result, Purdue's offense will have a new wrinkle this season. 
"We'll still pass a lot, but we'll probably run a little more," said Campbell. "We'll run the option some. i won't get carried away. The coaches have told me I'm No.1 (quarterback) so it's up to the other guys to beat me out. If I don't per­form, they'll change it, but I plan on doing the job and keeping my posi­tion." 
Campbell said he felt honored being the backup to Herrmann, major college football's all-time pas­sing leader. 
"I learned"so much about the of­fense, aboult reading patterns, 
throw the ball ... 

"A lot ofguys want to play as fresh­men, but I didn't," he continued. "I felt it was perfect to get the system down for a year, to adjust, and then come in as a sophomore as No.1." 
A year earlier, it was Gates who was Herrmann's understudy The accident that left him with a separated shoulder, broken clavicle, collapsed lung and concussion changed that. 
Coach Jim Young calls Campbell "a competitive, winning quarter­back who has a good arm and the ability to run. He is really an out­standingall-around quarterback. But Larry Gates is still in the picture. He has a strongarm and is a winner who had two excellent games for us two 
defenses, turning, when to the -years ago." 
---~ ------------·-· -----------------··------------·---·-------------------------------------···----------------­
Houston reactivates Richard 
HOUSTON (AP) Houston Astros pitcherJ.R. Richard, continu­ing a remarkable come-back from a life-threatening stroke 13 months ago, will be reactivated Tuesday and could pitch against the New York Mets during the team's current home stand. 
Astros Manager Bill Virdon would not say specifically when Richard would pitch, but said he was ready to rejoin the team. 
"We don't have to take the step now when he's going to pitch," Vir­don said. "It could be Tuesday or it could be Sept. 25. I told him it just depends on what happens down the road." 
"It's a psychological boostfor him and his 
teammates.  Whether  
or  not he's  able  to  
pitch  is  up  -to  the  
manager."  


Richard's tragic odyssey started July 30, 1980, when he suffered a stroke during a workout in the Astrodome. Richard underwent emergency surgery immediately to remove a blood clot from his neck. 
Amazingly, Richard was able to report to spring training in February 
"' with his teammates and started specialized work-outs aimed toward his dream -to pitch again in the major leagues. 
The dream took another step for­ward Sunday, when the Astros an­nounced that Richard and first baseman Mike Ivie would be reac­tivated Tuesday. Ivie had been on the team's disabled list, suffering from mental exhaustion. 
Astros General Manager AI Rosen said Richard's return was a reward. 
"He's worked hard to get himself into condition," Rosen said. "It's a psychological boost for him and his teammates. Whether or not he's able to pitch is up to the manager." 
Virdon said he was impressed with Richard after watching him throw 20 minutes ofbatting practice Saturday. Virdon said Richard's per­formance was instrumental in the decision to reactivate the 1980 All­Star starting pitcher for the National League. 
------·-------------. 
A!•' I iSS•I't'1 Jl"b •' 115~ t~t_· ll·tel'llt-''1 t>v 4 45 p m tWO d,h S r•·•'"l '0 tne 
·~Sqt' ·, ~\I•~~· I· •t•t• .~.1 .s r,,n The Observer ~)fftce wdl .:1ccep~ c'aSSl'leds 
,\o1•l:'(~,,. tt':rOt·~~n ft1 1av 1 fi 0() 1...,... •o 4 45 p n~ .).II r!.l5Stfter.b "lhtSt b€






Classifieds 
IJI(•-p<l•t~ Pl!llPr 10 l•r?•SOf· (): lhrou:;·: 'tle /Tidll 

~======~=:~~:-:·~~·~·~:::·---::::v-::-:~~~:::~~::::... ~:.::::::::::::::::::::::::::-,:::::::::::·--:::~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~::::::~==~==:~:·="· 
[ . ----·-. ------:-·-··· 
NOTICES 

-------------___ ] t.ioii"fiissi:v" LOAN FNO si~dent 
loans. $20-$200. One per cent interest. Due in one month. One day wait. Open every class day 11 :30-12:30 in LaFortune 
Basement 
TYPING! Fast. accural· typing at ~easonable rates. If you ne d something 1n a hurry, I can type it for y u. No 10b too big or too small. Close to ampus. Call Lynn Saylor. 233-3423. an ime.
r;;-·-----·-----'"-· .., 
'-=-~S1/¢(JUND
---\-· ·-· _______]I 
LOST: A blue-green arm cnair wrthout seat cushion. Last seen in Howard archway last week. If found p_lease call 8085 

The Observer !USPS 598 9201 IS publiShed Monday lhrc ugh Fnday except dunng exam a 1d vaca11on penods The Observer s published by lhe students of Not1 ' Dame and Sam I Marys College S Jbscnptwns 
. may be purchased for ~-30 per year i$15 per semester) by wr.tmg The Ob­server, P 0 Box 0. Notre Dame. In­diana 46556 
The Observer IS a member of the Associated Press All reproduction nghts are reserved 
the person in Prof. Gaski"s 1TT3 Market­ing class who picked up my wallet at 2:30 after class on Thursday, Aug 27: You and I both know how much cash was con· tained wrthin. I promise you a substantial portion of that monay will be yours if you will heed your conscil3nce and feturn the wallet. You ha~e my 10 so you should have no problem if you so choose to anonomously return just the empty wallet. I leave it to you; rt"s in your hands now. 

Please at least return the ID. Even if 1 
could, rm not about to pay $4.45 for that 
stuff at the dining hall. 
[I~~ -R-r~f --~.J 
FURNISHED 1 AND 3 BEDROOM APARTMENTS. 5 BEDROOM HOUSE. 234-2626. 
Furnished apt.. 503 1/2 W. Jefferson. Duplex. 3 rooms, 2nd floor. gas heat fur­nished, 289-6307. 234-0596. 
STUDENT RENTAL ONLY -6 BEDROOM HOUSE, FULLY CAR­PETED WITH SKY PARLOR. CALL 272­7767 OR 232-4057. 
Female housemates wanted lor 915 Corby. Call 287-4008. 
Student housing. University rated supe­rior. Complete facilities. Clean & safe. Call 291-1405 after Sept. 1 . 
One or two male housemates needed. Call 232-6344 for information, early or late. 
8 BLOCKS FROM ND. ROOMS FOR 3 MORE STUDENTS. $500 SEMESTER & SHARE OF UTILITIES. CALL 288-3942 FROM 5-9 P.M. 

Efficiency apartments-$100/mo. Near Notre Dame. On bus line_Call 255-8505 or 259-4629. 
[~. -r~?.~--~~~~---~~J 
Must sell: double loft&_ 14" bar. Very nice. very reasonable. Call Tim 8923 
For Sale Two tick~j~ ~~. ;;;,:~···B;~~e Springsteen in Chicago on Sept. 10. Make me an offer. Call Mike at 1180. 
CLASSIC 1967 JEFFERSON AIRPLANE po~ter (wooden airplane wrth flowers). 28 x 38. Fillmore Auditorium, thick stock, original. lull color. $6 posl-p<t Other San Francisco concert posters from '60s including Hendrix, Doors, Stones. Dead, Who. etc. Send $3 lor color catalogue (140 posters), refundable ·with order. AIRPLANE. P.O. Box27394, S.F., 94127. 
............................................. One beauty of a rug for sale. n. green­whrte shag $40 Call Jud1 8113, 317 
Walsh 

[ -wA_~_N_~o-_·] 
· -­Wanted: roommate. nice hmJse, mce neighborhood. $120/mo. includes 
utilities. 283-2920 or 289-3945. 
..................................••....................•. 
I NEED TWO GA TIX FOR USCII! I WILL 
PAY MEGABUCKS!!! PLEASE CALL 
BETH AT 283-4236. 

Need a ride for two to Springsteen con., on 9/8 in Chi. • will share expenses. Bob 8173 
WANTED: Drummer lor Rock/Dance Band. Call Tom at 1470. 
Now taking applications lor part & lull time cocktail waitresses Apply in person, 2-5 PM. Captain Alexander"s Moonraker. Come to the side door before 4:30. ask for 
Pam. 

Wanted many LSU GA tixl Will pay megabocks. Call Pat at 1942. 
MATURE STUDENT NEEDED TO SHARE LIVING QUARTERS. ALL THE COMFORTS OF HOME AND MORE. $150 PER MONTH TOTAL FOR CABLE TV, LAUNDRY. KITCHEN, STEREO. & MORE. 9 MONTH OR 1 YR LEASE. $100 DEPOSIT. 289-0103 
WANTED: 2 GA TtX TO FSU GAME. ALSO. 1 STUDENT TIX. CALL VINCE 1238 
Need a ride to Chi lor Springsteen sept. 8 Will pay anything. Call John Neblo 151 Alumni 1053 
~ 
TICKETS 
~----~ 

Need LSU Student & GA's Call Jack 11'73. 
Wanted: 2 GA LSU tickets. Call 233­8764 . ··········"·······t'····················· 
Need 2 GA LSU tickets. Call Shirley at 1715 before 5 weekdays. 
HAVE2TIXFOR LSU. FLA. STATE. SO. CAL GAMES. DESIRE TO TRADE FOR PENN STATE TIX. CALL COLLECT. 212-532-4747. 
Wanted GA Tickets lor first 3 Football Help! Help! Need 4 LSU GA tickets. Games. Call283-7884. Please help!! Call Pat 1400 
Need two LSU GA"s, will pay. 8584 WANTED:Two GA tickets for LSU. Will 
pay good$$. Call Jeff 8862. Need 4 GA, 2 student LSU tix. Pay $$$. Ca11Ted8424 Need two LSU GA"s. Call Patty 1321 
Need 4 GA and 1 student ticket for LSU. Will pay top$. Call3676. ~-------­
J 
,:.;~~ci~ci:·;;·G"A:;·i~·;·csul~~~l>~~s~ ir~i~ L!~RSONAlS 
father. Call Scott 1222. . ----­
Need 1 student season ticket for my last .... 
CRYSTAL ROCKS 
yea 

CRYSTAL ROCKS WANTE0:··4··GA''i~k~1·~--f~;·"LSU·g~~~-Crystal is available to entertain you au Call Cheri at 8158_ year long. For the best Rock"n Roll around call Bill at 283-6852 
Need 3·usc GA"s. top$$$. 7858 

ATTENTION INNSBRUCKERS & 
,:.;~~ci ;;~;4-c3A:ii~f~rlsu:i.4su.~iFsu· IRELANDERs oF "79-80 on sat 9/5, -b k c hog roast at Cindy s 1n Fort Wayne from
8 11 St 3008

lg uc s. a an, · 3-? RSVP Kathy 41-5766 or Julie 41­
1. N"Ei:o" TWO .GA rix FOR ..USC..AND 5773 by Thursday. Be there. Aloha! 

WILL PAY ANYTHING!II cALL BETH AT sEix1,, s~~ ii ~~ th~ big ,;;;;~~~ w~<J ~~<J ~2.:3ti"... ...... Thurs. Don't be afraid to ask. FOR SALE: 1 USC STUDENT TICKET. ......... . CALL VINCE 1238. David. . ...................... . They stir batter in a bowl Need two GA"s for LSU lor rich uncle. Call They fry bacon in a pan Paul at 1143. I sure am sorry ................. .. You got the can. NEED 2 GA LSU TICKETS. CALL JOHN Cathy 1001 I miss you in the dining hall!! 
lrcHiN·c;-····Fa·~---·Lsu····ricK·s~-·-·aur H~~ c~th~~-----······-···············..················· 
SERIOUSLY NEED MANY GA'S. CALL Is David for real? 1022. 

................................................................ Even though Colleen McDougall turned Will pay $60 lor two LSU GA"s. MUST 20 on Sunday. she is still accepting have before Friday. Se11t. 4. call JC at birthday ··gifts... Call her at 41-4408 to 8-446. wish her a Happy B-day! 
--~--.· 
------~---~ ,___ 


.. 

Tuesday, September 1, 1981 -page 9
The Observer 
. NFL 


w... 

AIIEIIICAN CONFERENCE -------------------------­
-..~ ..... Oakland 10 9 .526 
Eat DeBerg, a lOth-round draft choice
NATIONAL LEAOUE Chicago 10 10 .500 .5 Pet. PA continuedfrom page 10 
Ee.a KansasCrty 10 11 .476 1 w L PF by Dallas In 1977, was waived by the 
Miami 4 0 1.000 106 54
w L Pd. GB California 9 10 .474 1 New England 4 0 1.000 93 66 Monon. Rookie Mark Herrmann Is Cowboys and picked up by San Fran­St. Louoa 12 6 .667 Texas 9 10 .474 1 
1 104

11 8 .579 1.5 N.Y. Je1s 3 .750 55 No.3 on their depth chan. cisco during that prt·season. He Bultalo 2 2 .500 85 78
Montreal Minnesota 9 13 .409 2.5 
ChlciiQO 11 9 .550 2 Seattle 8 13 .381 3 became the 49ers' staning quaner­
BaHimore 0 4 .000 64 66 Coach Dan Reeves said the deci­
10 2.5

New Vorl< 11 .524 
C.nlntl back In 1979 and set NH records of
Philadelphia 7 13 350 6 Ye8111fday'e Reeulta Pdlsburgh 2 100 sion to cut Knapple and obtain 
2 .500 97 
Ponm..gh 8 15 2116 7.5 Seattle 4. BaHimore 3 578 pass attempts and 347 complc·
Cincinnati 2 2 .500 95 85 DeBerg was made"in order to bringw... Boston 4, California 1 tions that year. He lost his staning
Houalon 13 619 Oakland 5, Cleveland 3 Cleveland 2 3 .400 106 121 Herrmann along slowly, with a guy 
Loa Angeles 12 8 600 . 5 Detrort 3, Chicago 1 job to joe Montana late last season. 
8 

Houston 1 3 .250 57 92 
with experience in front of him. I
w...

s.n FranctACO 12 8 600 . 5 New York 7. Minnesota 0 Cockroft, a 14-year veteran, lost
San Diego 2 2 .500 98 99 feel that with DeBerg's experience
AUanta 12 9 .571 1 Milwaukee 5, Kansas Crty 1 
Oakland 2 2 .500 73 80 his job to ~~e-agent Dave jacobs.
Conconnat1 10 10 500 2.5 Tor onto 3, Texas 0 he will be ready to step in in case 
Denver 2 2 .500 62 84
San Otego 4 .190 9 T-y·eo-e .250 83 Cleveland also cut Terry Miller,
17 SeaHie 3 98 something happens to Craig ... Mark a
._......,-notlnc.,_ California (Forsch 1Q-5) at Boston (Stanley 7-4), n. former 1,000-yard rusher acquiredv...-y'eReeulta Seattle (Abbott 2·4) at BaHimore (McGregor 9·3), n. 
Kansas City 3 .250 33 63 Herrmann has a bright future and it Plwfadelphut 11, A!lanla 8 Oakland (Norris 9-5) at Cleveland (Denny 5-4), n. was a chance for us to get somebod last May in a trade with the Buffalo
Sundey'e R..utt

ClnckiNIIi9, Montreal 0 Detrort (Petry 6-6) at Chicago (Burns 8--2), n. 
New England 19, Washington 10 ith experience." Bills.• •
Houston 8, New York 1 ~ew ~rk (Reuschel1·1) at Minnesota (Redfern 4-7), 
ChociiQO at San OtegO. n Pollalugh Ill Los Angeles, n. Milwaukee (Haas 8·4) at Kansas Crty (lo:tammaker 0­Only games !ICheduled 0).n. 
' T-y·eo.mee Toronto (Leal4-9) al Texas (Darwin 8·6). n. Philadelphia (Caffton 1 Q-3) at Atlanta (Mahler 4-4), n. 
• • .Bottom 

Montreal (Fiogefs 9-8) al Cincinnall (Pastore 3-6), n. New Vorl< (Falcone 2·3) at Houston (Niekro 7-7), n. 
Chicago (Manz 4-6) al San Otego (Wise 2-5), n. 
Pltlsburgh (Solomon 5·4) at Los Angeles (Valenzuela NAnDNALFOOTBALLLEAGUE 
the name strikes fear into opponents' hearts. 
11·4).n. NATIONAL CONFERENCE continuedfrom page 1 2· St. louts (F•JrSCh 7-3) at San Francisco (Blue 6-5), n. Ea81 9) Kansas State (3-8) -Early-season battles with w L Pet. PF PA tied Notre Dame. powerhouse South Dakota and terrifying Tulsa may AIIEIIICAN LEAGUE Washington 1 70 49
3 .750 

1 .750 85 3) Oregon State (0-11) -Beaver wide receivers keep them from moving up.
E... St. Louis 3 65 w L Pet. GB Dallas 2 2 .500 90 98 Flem Hollis and Armond Chong arc small, but slow. 10) Vlllanova (6-5) -Guarantenl not to win (or 8 Philadelphia 2 .500 54
DatrOfl 13 .619 2 .500 85 4)Texas-El Paso (1-11)-All new assistants, bm lose) a game in 1981. 
Milwaukee 13 9 591 .5 N.Y. Giants 2 2 73 92 Baltimore 11 9 .550 1.5 Central head coach Bill Michael ( 5-42) stays., Also receiving votes: 
Boston 1t 9 .550 1.5 Green Bay 3 1 .750 97 66 5) PennsylvanJa (1-9) -Hope to avenge last year's Maine (4-7)-Last in the Yankee Conference. 
Chicago 2 2 .500 62 84
New York 11 10 524 2 blemish against Columbia. 
Toronto 9 10 .474 3 Detron 1 3 .250 85 95 1 Montana (3-7)-Let's go, joe. 
Cleveland 10 12 .455 3.5 Minnesota t 3 .250 70 100 6) Columbia (1-9) -Lost to Danmouth, 48-0 last Libya (0-2) -Penalized for illegal procedure.Tampa Bay 1 3 .250 67 85 
year. Quote ofthe week:
w... 

NewOrteans 3 1 .750 78 83 7) Vanderbilt (2-9) -Star tailback 'Punkin' Wil­Florida State coach Bobby Bowden: "When you put Los Angeles 2 2 .500 117 119 
liams quit football after spring drills with these guys. your schedule on the table and the table tilts, you know

1VFL 
San Francisco 2 2 .500 66 83 Atlanta 2 3 400 93 66 8) Texas Christian (1-10) -Homed Frogs: even you're in trouble."

checks Stabler 
• 
HOUSTON (AP) -The con­troversy swiriing about Houston 


Great America®
Oilers quarterback Ken Stawer spread Monday to include a National Football League investigation of Stabler's assodation with a known gambler and a man in Alabama accuNed ofgun-running. 

College
Stahler, who ended a brief retire­ment last week and played in the Oilers' 28-20 presc:ason loss to Dal­las Saturday night, has refused to comment on allegations that he as­sodated with convicted bookmaker Nichola'i Dudich of Penh Amboy, 

Carload Sale 
N.J. 
Whik Stabler's off-the-field problems mushroomed, Oilers Coach Ed Biles said he sees no problems. 
"If you want me to sum up my 
Who says you've Just flash 
feeling.'i, I think it's time for some­
body to either put up or shut up," 
already had your your student I.D. 
Biles said. "We don't kcl there is a 
prohkm. We're going to sit here and 
last 
summer 
at the parking 

create more problems by discussing 
and going into it." blast? Grab a booth on the 
NFI. executive Director Don 
bunch of friends, way in, and 
Wcis.'i confirm~:d in New York Mon· 
day that the kage is condu~·ting a 
pack 'em into you'll get
probe: ofStabler's acquaintances. "lbe investigation into the overall 
your car, and a speciaJ 
thing goes back several weeks," said 
Weiss, who also iAdicatt·d the NFL drive on out to coupon to 
investigated Stabler previously in 1978. 
Great America. You'll not only present at the main gate. have a great time,you'll save With a car full of people, your White Sox a great deal of money, too. nose may be pressed to the From August 31st through front windshield on the way to
pull 
I I I I 
September 4th, you'll all get in the park. But it'll be worth it. 
I (
triple play for just $20.00. (Limit six people During our College Carload 
I
per car) 'lbat's a mere $3.33 Sale you'll have a great time, 
. (
CIIICAGO (AP) The Chicago 
I 
l (
• Whitt· Sox pulled off a triple play in 
apiece for over 125 dilierent without being pressed for cash.
the top of tht· second inning against 
the lktroit Tigers Monday night. 
rides and attractions. Includmg ,Morraott's 
Kirk Gibson opened the second 
l
with a singk and Lance Parrish the Demon. The Tidal Wave. And 
IR AM I£A
walked. With a 3-1 t·ount on AI 
®

the American Eagle. The world's 
Cowens, both runners broke and 
50 minutes from Chicago or Milwaukee,
Cowens hit a osinking liner to right 
on 1-94 in Gurnee,llhnois.

whkh llal Bain~:s caught. Baines highest roller coaster · 
then threw to Tony Bt·mazard at 
second to douhk Gibson and Ber­
The new Amenccm Eagle The ruqhest, steepest. fastest. nazard rdayed to first basc:man Mike longest racmg roller C'oasler m the world 
I I
Squires to triple Parrish and end the 
l( 
inning. 
J 
Chicago may have won the baule 
I 
I
In that Inning, but Detroit won the 
l ( 
war, defeating the White Sox, 3·1. Detroit's Kirk Gibson extended his hiuing streak to I 0 with a pair of singles. 
The Observer Tuesday, September 1, 1981 -page 10 
N.F.L. cuts 
Oakland waives P3Si0rini 

By BRUCE J~OWIIT to rookie Heisman Trophy winner Associated Press George Rogers, the Saints (and the league's) No. I draft pick, was traded 
Quarterback Dan Pastorini, ob­to the Vikings for an undisclosed tained by Oakland from the Houston future draft pick Monday. Oilers for Ken Stabler in one of last The Saints also picked up season's biggest trades, was waived linebacker Rob Nairne from Denver by the Raiders Monday as Natonal and cut four players, among them Football League teams pared their wide receiver Kevin Williams, the rosters to the: opening-day 45-man team's No.7 draft pick from South­limit. ern Cal, and cornerback Mike 
An 11-year pro out ofSanta Clara, Spivey. Pastorini, 32.. started the f"trst six Nairne will replace Reggie Mathis, games of the 1980 season for Oak­placed on injured reserve after sur­land before breaking his leg. He gery to repair a partially detatched ended the year on the bench as Jim retina. Plunkett led the team to a Super "Tony Galbreath was a fine asset Bowl championship. to the Saints as a person and as a 
In other moves, fullback Tony player," said Saints Coach Bum Piil­Galbreath was traded from New Or­lips. "He will be the same for Min-leans to Minnesota, quarterback Steve DeBerg was dealt from San Fransisco to Denver and veteran place-kicker Don Cockroft was cut 
• 
by the Cleveland Browns. 
A number of teams said they would not announce their cuts until continuedfrom page 12 Tuesday. 
wingback until we could fmd aGalbreath, who lost a halfback job suitable replacement." 

One position that is not giving Faust and Blache any headaches is tailback, where junior Phil Carter returns for another year. The 5-10,• • . Surveys 200 lb. dynamo gained 822 yards rushing last season despite missing continuedfrompage 12 nearly five full games with a deep
place more emphasis on their edca­academics are more important. But tion than on their respective sport. right now basketball is also very im­
thigh bruise suffered in the season's "This is not just another school," Instead, a majority ofthose surveyed portant to me." third game on the rock-hard said the captain of the Fighting Irish said that a perfect balance between Sophomore quarterback Blair Kiel astroturfof Michigan State's Spartan 
hockey team. "Everyone here is the two is essential to success both agrees. "The major reason I came to Stadium -a game in which Carter bonded by the academics, the in the classroom and in athletics. Notre Dame is the fact that all the gained a remarkable 254 yards on 40 sports, and the great traditon of "The biggest reason I chose to at­football players receive their carries, almost single-handedly Notre Dame. And Catholicism is an tend Notre Dame is the balance that degrees in four years. But during the leading the Irish to their 26-21 vic­
additional bond which holds exists between academics and ath­football season, both academics and tory. 
everyone so close together." letics," said John Paxson, the sharp­football are on an even level." But Faust has plans for Carter, too. Tbe Obseroer also found that the shooting guard for Digger Phelps' Tbe Obseroer also found that a ''I'll be doing a variety of things," present Notre Dame athletes do not basketball team. "In the long run, major factor in deciding to attend Carter explained. "I won't just run Notre Dame lies within her great up the middle like I used to. I'll be tradition and aura ofmystique. doing more running around the "It's every young boy's dream to ends as well as catching more 

someday •go to Notre Dame," said passes." Carter will begin working Mark Fische•·. center for the football 
out this afternoon after being ham­team. "There's something special 
pered by a hamstring pull through­here; all the great people who have 
out the entire month ofAugust. been here in the past, the winning 
Carter's absence, though, has tradition which has been . a part of 
given Notre Dame's wealth of tail­
Notre Dame for so long. It all makes backs a chance to impress the coaches, and none have fililed. One
you want to be a part ofit." back who has Coach Blache raving is
Concurring with Fischer and a sophomore Greg Bell, a Carter clone·
majority of the athletes surveyed is who averaged 13.2 yards per carrystar tennis player Mark McMahon. 
in brief appearances as a freshman,"The winning tradition of Notre including a 27-yard touchdown runDame sports and the mystique against Navy. "Greg's been superwhich surrounds the school were 
this fall," Blache said. "We won't definitely major factors in my deci­hesitate to use him in a game situa­sion to attend." 
tion ifwe have to." The differing results between the 
The fullback situation is still un­surveys can be attribted to several 
certain even today, with junior Larry 
f.tctors. The Obseroer survey in­Moriarity still holding a slight edge volved cument scholarship atletes over classmate John Sweeney. while .the other involved alumni Blache feels that both will see a good who have the distinct advantage of bit of action this season, but that looking back on their colloge years. Moriarity's explosiveness and im­The great dilference in the results of proved blocking ability places him the "Catholic factor" could be ex­slightly ahead ofSweeney, who is an plained by more non-Catholic ath­exceptional blocker but who lacks letes enrolling than in the past. the break:!way speed of Moriarity. 

"Refrigerators 
dorm room size students rates 

CA.LL 

I 


TAYLOR

' I 
I I I I I I 

RENTAL

I .
I ­I I I 
277-2190

I 
1427N.Ironwood~ 
nesota. This is one of those trades that will benefit both teams and one that will benefit Tony's career." 
Galbreath was the Saints' No.2 draft pick in 1976. He and Chuck Muncie were thunder and lightning in the New Orleans backfield for several seasons. But they were benched early in last year's 1-1 5 season, then Muncie was traded to San Diego after four games. 
The Broncos acquired DeBerg from the 49ers for an undisclosed draft choice and cut second-year reserve)effKnapple. DeBerg, picked up just six days after the Broncos had waived Matt Robinson, gives them a veteran to back up Craig 
See NFL, page 9 
• Backfield

• 
Blache is also impressed with the new crop of freshman backs, espe­cially tailback Chris Smith and ful­lback Mark Brooks, both from Cincinnati. "They're both fine run­ners," said Blache, "better than any of us expected Both will definitely see action this season." 
The Irish coachingstaffgot its first look at its backfield contingent in last Saturday's scrimmage and, ex­cept for a few minor errors, were generally pleased by the results. "Overall, we had a good scrimmage," Blache said. "But we still have to eliminate the little er­rors -the problems in discipline and concentration, like faking and running our courses. But they're on­ly minor; no missed assignments oc anything like that." 
So, when the "new and improved" Fighting Irish take the field Septem­ber 12 against LSU, the least of their worries should be the performance of the backfield. That will allow them to concentrate on other, more important matters -lilce what color shoes to where with their new out­fits. 
IRISH ITEMS -Tight end Rob McGarry is lost for the season after undergoing knee surgery last week ...the final preseason scrimmage will take place Friday at the Stadium ... the scrimmage will be closed to the public. 
Royalsfire Frey 
KANSAS CITY, Mo. tAP) -The Kansas City Royals announced today Jim Frey has been fired as manager and former New York Yankees Manager Dick Howser named as his replacement. 
Howser was introduced at a 1 p.m. news conference at Royals Stadium. 
"This was a very difficult decision for us to make, especially for me per­sonally," said joe Burke. Royals vice president and general manager. "Jim Frey is one of the most loyal, ded­icated and hardworking individuals I have had the good fortune to be as­sociated with in my long baseball career. 
Howser is 45 and a veteran of 22 years of pro baseball. He was manager of the 1980 Eastern Divi­sion champion Yankees when he guided the club to a 103-59 record. That .635 percentage was best in major league baseball for the regular season. It was only the fourth time in history a first-year manager had won 
100 or more games. 
This year hL was working as a 
scout for the Yankees and as a televi­
sion commentator. 
He was tl• "ankel:'·;' third base coach from l7v-' to I c 1 and served as head baseball co at Florida State in 1979, where !~am ha(! a 43-16-I record. 


The Obserwr-----==-====~~==--=-=--=-=---==--~-----=-=---========~ 

T0 da~===============T=u::;e=s=d=ay='=S=ep=t=e;m=b=e=r=l='=l=9=8=l==p=a=g=e=l~l 
* *
OBSERVER SPORTS STAFF' 
:-high paying jobs 1 
* *
meeting (for those who missed last 
* *
* *
*~ *~
Tuesday's only) TONIGHT at 6 p.m. 
: call Mike or L11nn :
* ~ *
in the Observer office. 
* *
* * 
: at8661. :
Newcomers Welcome 
* *
* * 
l-~*********************~*4 
Molarity 
WE UNI>ER5TAND YOU~ 
IF Y6U ARE" CDAJt:ERNEJ7 
'WfTif TIIEM COLLAP5/f.tl WHY

CCf.JcERN AWJr 6TIJPE.NI 
~UILi LDFTS ... BUT WE FAIL 
ro ALL TH£ NEW RILES PD 

TO 6Ef "PI£ PERTINE'NC£TO 
NDTHIN~ BUT ADOlY-:>1 THE 

-rnK:~EDY m/5 5UMHE~ 
C/I~N61DN5 1\JDT TJ-1£: 

IN K~6 CI1Y 
61TiULTURE' 6F Til£. LOFI 


Simon 


The Daily Crossword 

Michael Molinelli Campus 
WE: ,IH{; IJAJIV£~6/TY, 
BEL"AU6E OF TH£ 

•6:30 p.m. -meeting, alpha phi organizatiooal
FEEL 0&14AiEP Tl> 
~aN OFTII£" ANDRIA 

meeting., little theater, all old members and
CHANGt= "'THE. /'WLIES 
DoRIA I WEAR£ PROP65/ 

prospective members are encouraged to attend.,


NO MA11EI\' HDW f"L.IMSY 
THB£ N£"1 'RULE6 t'tR D

1}11:: HOfiVAT/OtJ... ANI> 
"ffi~ CRE::/..V ll::AVJ .. ,

f'L>"f/-IE:'R HDRC: 
i2:00 p.m. 
12:30p.m. 1:00p.m. 
1:30p.m. 
2:00p.m. 
2:30p.m. 3:00p.m. 
3:30p.m. 
4:00p.m. 

Jeb Cashin 4:30p.m. 


S:OOp.m. 
S:30p.m. 
6:00p.m. 
6:30p.m. 
7:00p.m. 

ACROSS 44 MomorDad 12 Baghdad's1 Tiff 45 Neither's locale 5 Bowling partner 13 After esses 
21 Was delin· 

term 46 Spanish 7:30
10 Step-! quenl
painter

14 Unaspirated 22 Relative
47 Be accurate

15 Rebound 25 Grants
55 P a riner of 8:00p.m.

16 Diminish 26 Mountain
faith and 

gradually ridge
.. 
charity
17 "Pumping -27 Reverie
56 Fished, 
8:30p.m.

18 Lacquer 28 Of ques­
in a way 

ingredient tionable
57 Hercules'

19 Dies-9:00p.m.
meritcaptive

20 Exercise 29 Drink hard 
58 Winglike

care 30 Like a 10:00 p.m.
59 Carnivorous

23 Pitcher house-
mammal

24 Go to court 31 Supply
60 Ina­

25 Military with fresh
(miffed)

groups personnel 10:30 p.m.
61 Hunter's

28 Word with 32 Resided
trophy

time or 34 Grouchy
62 Emporium

deviation 37 Race
63 "Them

33 Made a officials
There-.. 11:00 p.m.

booboo 38 Land turtle 34 lnsuffi· 40 Adam's
DOWN

cient grandson
.1 Svelte

35 Not many 41 Gagster
2 Graceful 11:30 p.m.

36 Gest 43 Implant
girl

37 Full of 44 Hawk
3 Soon

suds 46 Contemptu·
4 Proffered

38 "Of-and ous smile
5 Public

the River" 47 Fellow ~************~************~ 
displays

39 Greek 48 Play part * ~ 
6 Less

vowel 49 October
colorful 





~ The Observer $
40 Chopin birthstone
7 Mars

composition 50 -belt
8 Easywin

41 Reef * * 
51 Palo­
9 Secret

builder 52 Theater * * 
agent

42 Whence came award * * 
10 Stated

three lit· 53 Nastase * * 
11 Ancient 


:needs many typists: 
tie maids 54 Defeats,
ointment 
in bridge 

* * 
* * 
* *
* * 
Television 
Today  
16  Days ofOur Uves  
28  All My Children  
46  Today with Lester Sumrall  
22  As the World Turns  
16  Another World  
28  OneUktoUve  
46  Ught & Uvely  
22  Search for Tomormw  
46  Lester Sumrall Teaching Series  
16  Texas  
22  The Guiding Ught  
28  General Hospital  
46  Tennessee Tuxedo  
46  Tom & Jerry  
16  Bugs Bunny  
22  CBS Afternoon Movie  
28  Edge of Night  
46  Bullwinkle  
22  Woody Woodpecker  
28  Hour Magazine  
46  Rocky & His Friends  
16  Gilligan's Island  
22  Gomer Pyle  
46  Camp Wiiderness  
16  Bewitcht·d  
22  Andy Griffith  
28  Hollywood Squares  
46  Cartoon Festival with Tom & Jerry  
16  Brady Bunch  
22  Happy Days Again  
28  Joker's Wild  
16  NBC Nightly News  
22  CBS News  
28  ABC's World News Tonight  
46  Timmie & Lassie  
16  NewsCenter 16  
22  22 Eyewitness News  
28  Newswatch 28  
46  Jim Bakker  
16  M-A·S-H  
28  Tic Tac Dough  
16  Tuesday Night at the Movies, "The Eagle  
Has Landed"  
22  Walter Cronkite's Universe  
28  Happy Days  
46  Michlana Today  
22  Comedy of Horrors  
28  Laverne & Shlrlc:y  
46  God's News Behind the News  
22  CBS Tuesday Night Movie, "Family Man"  
28  Three's Company  
46  Lester SumraU Teaching Series  
28  Too Close for Comfon  
46  Dwight Thompson  
28  Hart to Han  
'46  Today with Lester Sumrall  
16  NewsCenter 16  
22  22 Eyewitness News  
28  Newswatt·h 28  
46  Good News  
16  Tonight Show  
22  U.S. Open Tennis  
28  ABC News Night line  
46  Pattern for Uving  
22  Cannon & The Saint  
28  Tuesday Movie of the Week, "I Wanna  
Hold Your Hand"  
46  Praise the Lord  
16  Tomorrow Coast to Coast  

~----------------------------------------­


~ports 
Why N.D.? 

Athlete surveys conflict 
By MIKE MONK from Information Servfces. It also uon for set! 'tb up an Athletic En­Sports Writer was not known how many of the 47 dowment f'~.<,;d at Nota. IJame. Such surveyed were scholarship athletes. a fund wvuld constitute the first 
The results of a recent survey According to the survey, most time the llniversity has raised show that the Univerity of Notre club members were concerned money for sports. Dame attracts athletes more be­more with Notre Dame's cducaHon­Conflicting results were obtained cause of its Catholic character and al program and the institution as a from a telephone survey conducted it" reputation for academic excel­whole than with the success of its by The Observer. Current scholar­lenn· than by its succesful athletic athletic teams. Nearly all the club ship athletes from football, baseball, program~. according to the Depart­members cited t~e educational em­men's and women's basketball, ment oflnformation Secvices. phasis in the athletic programs and hockey and tennis were asked why 
The findings of the survey are the high percentage of graduating they chose Notre Dame over other based on extensive personal inter­athletes as being very important to prospective colleges. While all of views with 47 of Notre Dame's them. the athletes cited the J.Jnivcrsity's 3,000 monowam letter winners. It The interviews were conducted academic reputation as a major fac­involved graduates from as far back by Roger Valdiserri (Sports Informa­tor, only 18 percent said that Notre as 1925 through 1979 and tion Director), Dr. )ames Frick (Vice Dame's Catholic character was a fac­canvassed the continental United President for Public Relations and tor in their decisions. States. No women were surveyed Alumni Affairs), James Murphy The fact that Notre Dame is a due to their relatively recent inclu­(Assistant Vice President), and Catholic school had much to do sion in the University. James Gibbons (a Monogram Club with Dave Poulin's decision to at­
A sport-by-sport breakdown of member). tend. 
those surveyed was not available The survey was done in prcpara-See SU1RVEYS, page 10 
Installwingback 

Backfield features new-position 
Tuesday, September 1, 1981 -page 12 

By CHRIS NEEDLES 
Sports Writer 
For months now, Notre Dame football fans have been inundated with news and general gossip about their "new look" Fighting Irish. 
Of course, there is a new head coach, Gerry Faust, who hopes to wake up the echoes that have been lulled to sleep the past few years by too many third-down punts and not enough offensive creativity. But most everyone now knows enough about Faust to write a biography on him. 
Then there arc the new uniforms, a stylish mixture of blue and gold that, if they don't help win football games, at least should place the team atop Mr. Blackwell's next "Best Dressed" list. But one can get a good look at these on the cover of the 1981 Notre Dame Football Guide, right next to the drawing of Bob Crable and Phil Carter doing their schoolwork. 
But now, with the 1981 season opener just II days away, there is nothing much else left to talk about except football. And nowhere else will this "new look" be more in evidence than on offense, most espe­cially in the backfield. 
Gerry Fau~t's new offense, borrowed from his days at Moeller High, features a brand new position -wingback -_and a lot of motion, most of which will take place in the backfield. The tailback and fullback positions remain intact, but the addi­tion of the wingback, who can line up either in the backfield as a run­ning back or in the slot as a flanker, creates endless play-calling options for Faust and his staff. 
"The wingback should be the best athlete we have," says Faust, "or at least one of the best. It has to be someone who is really diversified because he'll be asked to do so many different things." 
Former flanker Tony Hunter, a two-year starter, has been tabbed as the new wingback, without much argument from the critics. The 6-5, 220 lb. junior, who had a superb freshman season but who was limited somewhat by injuries last year, is generally regarded as the team's most versatile performer. Last season, Hunter caught 23 passes to lead the team, and also displayed his rushing ability by gaining 52 yards on five end-around plays. 
Naturally, Hunter is pleased with the change of positions, which also brings with it an increased involve­ment in the offense. ''I'll still be primarily a receiver, plus I'll be in motion a lot," Hunter said. "But lots of times I'll tine up in a 'full house' backfield, which will give me the op­tion to run the ball, too. 
"It's tough to learn a new position, but I really like it. It requires a lot of physical stamina on my part, but I enjoy the increased responsibility" 
There is a potential problem, however, with the newly-created position, one that is adding a few wrinkles to the brow of backfield coach Greg Blache. "We have a definite problem in regards to depth at the wingback position," Blache said yesterday. "Tony Hunter is healthy and he's taking to the new position well, but there is still room for improvement from him. 
"After that, though, we've got problems. 1i'im Tripp (who was slated to be Hunter's backup) will be out at least four weeks with a sprained knee. Past that, we're pret­ty thin. 
"If Tony were to get injured," Blache continued, "we'd probably switch one of our tailbacks to 
See BAtCKFffiLD, page 10 


Northwestern leads the way 
EDITOR'S NOTE: Severalpublicationspublish a ver­sion of"The Bottom Ten." This one ts unique to The Observer. 
AUFHORS' NOTE: "The Bottom Ten" is a light­hearted, often tasteless, look at college football polls. Anything contained herein that offends anyone is ab­solutely intlfmtional. 
Far be it from the Bottom Ten ~oters to learn from their mistakes. 
In 1979, the Florida Gators topped the end-of-se:t!ion poll with an 0-10-1 record. So voters made them the pre-season favorite to repeat as the nation's worst team in 1980. Dt:spite a heroic last-second loss to Georgia, Florida finished with a dismal 8-3 record before going on to the Tangerine BowL 
Northwestern finished last year in the sunspot, with a perfect O-Il slate. That fact, coupled with the loss of several statters, has convinced voters to once again rank them number one, as the 1981 season gets under­
way. 
Teams like UTEP, Penn and Columbia should be 
familiar to Bottom Ten devotees. But, alas, there are 
several traditional powerhouses whose programs have 
sufferred unfortunate improvement. 
The return to power of a Republican administration, 


and the resulting increases in defense spending, have 
doomed Army and Navy to moderate success. That 
much is evident from pre-season scrimmages in North 
Korea and the Mediterranean. 
Don't look for Chuck Fairbanks and Colorado in the polls this year. The Endangered Species Act has rescued the Buffaloes. The annual mid-summer meetingofthe Bottom Ten voters, held this year in Kansas City, was a smash. The announcement that former Arizona St., Mis­souri, Green Bay and Notre Dame mentor Dan Devine had been elected to the Bottom Ten Hall Of Fame brought the house down. 
Here, then, are the 1981 rankings with 1980 records in parenthesis: 
I) Northwestern (0-11) -Denny Green inherits Wildcats' five-year record of 3-51-1. 
2} Georgia Tech (1-9-1} -Yeah, we heard, they 
See BOTI'OM, page 10 

GREG BELL  LARRY MORIARITY  JOHN SWEENEY  TONY HUNTER  PHD.. CARTER  
6-0, 205, So.  6-2, 220,Jr.  6-2, 21S,Jr.  6-S, 220,Jr.  S-10, 200,Jr.  
Tailback  Fullback  Fullback  Wingback  Tailback  
No.28  No.39  No.33  No.8S  No.22  
Columbus, Ohio  Santa Barbara, Calif.  Deerfield, ID.  Cincinnati, Ohio  Tacoma, Wash.  







