, , , Records -page 6 

VOL. XVI. NO. 7~l===========~=a:r=1;ir:1d;e;p;e;n;d;e;m;-sriiu~d~e~n~t~n~e~ws~p~a~pe~r~~~~n~o~tr~e1d~am~e~a~n~d~s1ru1· n1r1m·ary•'•s••••••W•E1o1N1E1s1o.A1Y1,1o1E1c1,E1M.B1E1R191,1t1918•1 
Discrepancies in report 
Investigation of Allen broadens 
WASHINGTON (AP) Thtt justice Department has expanded its inquiry of Richard V. Allen to in­clude the national security adviser's failure to list his consulting firm's clients on his financial disclosure 
form, a government official said yes­terday. 
The official, who asked not to be identified, said justice Department investigators met with officials of the Government Ethics Office in the past few days to discuss the client question. 
"The judgment that he should have listed (his clients) is going to be made," said the ,.pfficial, adding that the only questiO'n was whether Allen would be required to file a second amended disclosure form now, or wait until the justice Department review is over. 
Richard A. Hauser, deputy White House counsel who has been han­dling the Allen case, did not return 
several telephone calls Tuesday about the client question. form. 
On his initial financial disclosure statement, filed last February, Allen provided no list of clients from Potomac International Corp., the consulting firm Allen founded in 
I972. 
Allen also said he had stepped down as president of the tinn and sold it in I978, and listed no finan­cial interest in the company at the end of I980. 
After press inquiries last month, 
.fohn E. jacobs addresses a New York press conference Monday, 
however, Allen said he had made a 
u•bt-re it was announced be would succeed Vernon jordan as ex· 
mistake and amended his disclosure 
ecutive vice president oftbe National Urban League. ( AP Photo) 
Providing jobs 

OK serves area handicapped 
By MOLLY RYAN 
News Staff 
At first glance, the building located at 2609 S. Michigan St. ap­pears to be ju~t another novelty shop. The two swre windows dis­play standard merchandise su(:h as stufft-d animals, children's toys and ceramics. The story behind these items and the establishmt"nt itself; however, is refreshingly out-of-the­ordinary. The project is called "Opportunity Knocks" (OK) and its purpose is to provide work ex­perience tor handicapped people. 
Tht" fledgling operation is a non­profit organization manned by local volunteers. These individuals arc responsible for ket"ping OK atloat. OK has survived even though some 800 businesses in the surrounding art"a have folded. 
Mrs. Freida Fuchs, the founder of OK, has transformed what began as "an ordinal) junk store" into an operation that is becoming more and more specialized. "Our short­range goal is to sell only toys," Mrs. Fuchs said. Although paintings, jewelry, pottery, ust"d clothes and other miscellaneous items are dis­played for sale, many pieces of children's furniture dominate the 
room. 
One man is personally respon­sible for each miniature table, chair, playpen, crib and bunkbed seen in the store. Mr. Bob DuBois, a retired woodworker, has devoted I 0-1 5 hours a day for four months to making children's furniture. His cf­fons have literally turned the program around. He receives no don't care about the money... I payment for his services. "I just mean, what's money when you can came along to get 'em started," he help people?" said. "I'll go back to my hobby in two Mrs. Fuchs envisions even bigger weeks." DuBois promised his skill~ things for OK. "Our long-range goal 
is a residential housing facility for tht· handicapped that would be self­WEDNESDA Y.tfi. su:>taining. It would be a place that doesn't put you in a beggar's posi­
tion."
~ 
-=-·······

I<**'M%liFOCUS 
"The private sector," Mrs. Fuchs continued, "must do things, must in woodworking to help OK get oil" 
See OK, page 4
the ground. A permanent successor for Bob is needed, however, and, as 
form to say that he stopped being president and sold the company last january. He also listed holdings in Potomac International of from S100,000 to 5250,000 at the end of 
1980. 
Willful falsification of a govern­ment disclosure form is a felony punishable by up to five years in jail and a SIO,OOO fine. 
Last week, the department said no special prosecutor would be named to investigate Allen's receipt of 
S I ,000 from two Japanese jour­nalists who interviewed first lady Nancy Rt"agan on jan. 21. Bm the departmt"nt is still rt"viewing Allen's acceptance of two watches from the journalists as wdl as the date dis­crepancy. 

At that time, the justice Depart­ment said, its inquiry would bt" limited specifically to tht" two ques­tions mentioned. The disclosure that the review has branched out in­to the issue of Allen's clients means that the continuing probe is not as limited as had been believed. 
Federal law requires incoming government officials to identify an­nual sources of "compensation in excess of 55,000" in each of the past two years and to give "a brief description of the nature of the duties performed or services ren­dered" 


U.S. believes Soviets forged documents 
WASHINGTON (AP)-The State Department outlined yesterday al­leged efforts by the Soviet Union and other anti-American elements to un­dercut U.S. foreign policy through dissemination offorged documents. 

U.S. officials said a number offalse documents have surfaced in recent years, including one which pur­ported to present secret American plans to blow up Western Europe with nuclear weapons in the event ofwar. 
The officials, who briefed repor­ters on the condition they not be identified, said the Soviet Union clearly was behind some of these ef­forts but the origin of others could not be established. 
They said tbat over the past year and a half, the forgery outlining al­leged American war plans has ap­peared in Great Britain, The Netherlands, Spain, Norway, Bel­gium, Denmark, Malta and Greece. In some cases, the document. surfaced more than once. The for­gery has appeared in newspaper and magazine aricles and in the hands of anti-nuclear groups, the officials 
said. 
According to the officials, the for­gery is based in part on documents stolen in the United States in the 1960s by Sgt. Robert Johnson, a Soviet agent now serving a 20-year 
ofyet, none has been found. But Mrs. Fuchs is not overly concerned. "Bob also said he was leaving at 


HPC takes over 
Thanksgiving," she said with a smile. When a successor is found, however, and Bob is able to return 


escort service duties 
to retirement, he will undoubtedly 
By RICH COLLIS 
remain a familiar figure at tht" 
News Staff 
storefront, if only on a part-time basis. "You just don't find people Student Body Vice President Tara like him very often," Mrs. Fuchs said. 

Kenney announced the resignation"His reward is in heaven." 
of Brian Conway as the head of the Another man has already claimed escort service at last night's Hall his reward. Ray Mitchell, who·wasaf­Presidents' Council meeting in filiated with OK from its beginnings Pasquerilla East last night. 
one year ago, died last week. This Citing lack ofparticipation by cer­52-year old stroke victim was un­tain mens' dorms as the reason, Con­

employed from I967-80 as a result way quit his post as coordinator. 
of his handicap, but found fulfill­Kenney said that tht" HPC was now ment working for OK. "Ray is quite a in charge of the little-used service. 
loss. He loved OK -it had become Begun last spring as a response to a his home," stated Mrs. Fuchs. 
flare-up ofcampus crime, the nightlyPatrick O'Banion is a high school escort service from Memorial 
student who works at OK every day 

Library was originally under Student after classes and on Saturdays. When Senate control. The failure of some 
asked why he devotes so 'much time halls, however, to send 

and energy, he shrugged, smiled, and said, "I get paid 510.00 a week. I representatives on their appointed nights caused Conway to give up his position. The Student Senate conse­quently shunted the responsibility to the HPC, which in turn put the burden on the shoulders of the in­dividual halls. The service will be provided through next week but will probably end next semester. 

In other business, student-alumni 

relations  representative  Bob  
McDonald  announced  that  the  
Alumni  Board  will  send  

representatives to speak in each hall next month. The Alumni Board is in­strumental in finding summer jobs for students and will discuss the placement service at these meetings. 
jail term. 
They said the forgery first began to appear two decades ago then resurfaced in I979 when the European allies were debating a NATO proposal to deploy medium­rangt" ·nuclear forces in Europe to counter the Soviet installation ofSS­20 missiles. 
The Soviets have waged an in­tense campaign in Western Europe in opposition to the NATO plan. The first NATO missiles are scheduled to be installed in 1983. 
' ... the forgery is based 
in part on documents 

stolen in the United States in the 1960's ' 
The officials said the forgery, en­titled "Holocaust Again For Europe," is believed to be ofSoviet origin be­cause it contains some of the same military jargon and phrases as the 

·documentsjohnson passed on to the Soviets. 
The State Department decided to make public details of the alleged forgery campaign in response to a number ofpress inquiries prompted by an official U.S. report on Soviet "disinformation" activities released two months ago. 
The officials cited these other t"X­
amples offorgeries: 
A story from Vienna appearing in the Soviet press in October which alluded to "U.S. document 77707­1 0-70," declaring neutral Austria to 
be in the sphere of U.S. interests and targeting a number ofAustrian cities and nuclear facilities for nuclear destruction. 
The appearance of a Soviet­inspired letter in Denmark recently purponing to detail U.S. and Chinese efforts to undercut Peking's rela­tions with North Korea. The forgery led to the expulsion from Denmark of the Soviet diplomat who was believed responsible for passing the document. 




~~~Sc~==~==i=~~~~S=========*====================W=e=d=n=es=d=ay=,=D=e=ce=m=b=e=r=9,=1=9=81===p=a=ge~2 
by The Oh.rerver·and The As.rociatr:d Prr:.r.r 


Actor DanAykroyd,commenting on a police raid of a Chicago private club he helped start, says it's OK with him "ifI'm associated with bootlegging in any way." "Bootleggers ofthe world" should "stand together," said Aykroyd in an interview Monday, after the raid at the U.S. Blues Brothers Club. Aykroyd and actor John Belushi founded llle club in 1979 during the filming oftheir movie, "The Blues Brothers." Police said they arrested 48 people during the raid early Saturday, and they said an undercover investigation turned up evidence of illicit liquor sales and drug use at the club. Neither Aykroyd nor Belushi were present during the raid. Aykroyd ack­nowledged that liquor was sold at the club, even though an applica­tion for a liquor license had not been granted. The club's manager, Steven C. Beshekas, 33, of Chicago, was charged with illegal liquor sales, failure to display a liquor license and possession ofa controlled substance, police said. Police said a bartender, Peggy Atterberry, 36, 
.of Naperville, was charged with selling liquor without a license and with possession of a controlled substance, said tactical officer Ronald J. Harris. The 46 others at the club were charged with disor­derly conduct and released on $35 signature bonds. -AP 
Polo -the game lo~g associated with the rich -is going blue collar during the 1982 season at the Palm Beach, Fla., Polo and Country Club. For the first time, french fries will be served at the club's concession stand. "You don't have to sip champagne and eat caviar to watch polo. You can just as easily have a beer and munch on greasy french fries," said polo enthusiast David Andrews. The french fry proclamation came at the club's annual, formal season announce­ment Monday, where representatives of its 20 corporate sponsors and the media were wined and dined. Despite what most people think, polo is not exclusively for the rich, according to Andrews. People who watch football and hockey may also enjoy its pleasures, he said. -AP 
Calls to save the manatees, bald eagles and whales are pretty common these days. Now state biologists in Tallahassee, Fla. are taking up the cause ofthe gray bat, an endangered little creature that thrives in just one more cave in Florida. "There is only one population ofgray bats in Florida, and that is in Jackson County, and the population center is right near Marianna," said biologist Anne Shapiro of the Florida Game and Fresh Water Fish Commission. The cave is home to about 10,000 gray bats and 90,000 Southeastern bats, making it the largest known bat cave in the Panhandle, she added. "Even the most hardened bat hater can't help but be impressed by that," said Ms. Shapiro. The commission has asked for 
S92,000 which with to buy the Marianna cave and the forest cor­ridor through which the bats fly to the Chipola River, where they feed. -AP 
Albany, N.Y. voters turned down a s5oo million bond issue to raise money for new prisons, the state Board ofCanvas­sers said yesterday. The board certified the statewide total of votes cast Nov. 3 at 1,272,672 in favor and 1,286,371 opposed. In the balloting, New York City voters approved the prison bond issue by a margin of210,852. However, the measure was defeated outside the city by a margin of 224,551. The bond issue would have provided $350 million to build three maximum-security state prisons, Sl25 million to improve county prisons and $25 million for related uses. The state inmate population already exceeds capacity, state prison officials said. -AP 
One of tllree construction workers trapped and overcome by marsh-gas fumes in a drainage pipe in Stuart, Fla., at a condominium project died yesterday at a hospital. The victim, iden­tified as Shawn Fischer, 24, of Fort Lauderdale, was cleaning the inside of the pipe Monday when he was overcome by fumes described by investigators as a combination of methane and hydrogen sulfide. Two other men, Earl Carver, 45, of Pompano 
Beach and Dennis Green, 26, of Gainsville, tried to rescue Fischer and also passed out. Carver remained in critical condition yesterday. Green was treated and released. -AP 
A philanthropistin Baltimore has purchased and shut down an adult theater which had been the target of picketing by local residents. "It's no longer a theater. It's all nailed up," said Sol Klein, a real estate agent who handled the transaction on behalf of the former owners Monday. The theater, which opened in 1913, changed from a regular movie house to one that showed Oriental films. Later, it specialized in violence-prone films. In July, it reopened as Cinema Xand began showing X-rated movies. Klein said the theater has been sold to the Glenlo Corp., headed by Henry J. Knott, a contractor and philanthropist who recently gave $20 mil­lion to the Roman Catholic Archdiocese of Baltimore. -AP 
"" . bl "

ItappearS tneVtta e that London's D'Oyly Carte 
Opera Company, which produced the· first Gilbert and Sullivan operettas I06 years ago, will close at the. end of this season, a com­pany official said yesterday. Peter Riley; deputy general manager, said the near-bankrupt company would probably close after February 1982. Riley said he believed the company's trustees were unanimous in deciding to close the company. The trustees met Mon­day and canceled a news conference yesteday to announce their decision. Riley said the board members apparently want to meet one more time "to decide whether they can even keep the group going until the end ofthis season." -AP " 
Cloudy and cold today with occasional snow flurries continuing. High in upper 20s to low 30s. Partial clearing and cold tonight. Afew snow flurries possible early. Low in upper teens to low 20s. Partly sunny and not as cold tomorrow. High in low to mid 30s. Chance of measurable snow dropping to 30 percent today and to 20 percent early tonight. -AP 
Not 'just student newspape~s' 

Last week, Northern Illinois University's student newspaper, The Northern Star, did an investigative story on the ease with which students obtained depres­sant drugs from the University's health center. 
The story did not win an award -yet. Instead, it has gotten members of the paper's staff in a great deal of trouble. 
Incredibly, Northern Illinois administrators now 
want to expel the students responsible for tile article. Here's the story: The paper had heard that the pealth center was 
prescribing depressants with amazing regularity, and without the recommended physical examinations. Four reporters went to the center and feigned various symptoms of nervousness. The medical staff allegedly gave three of the women tranquilizer prescriptions, without ever giving them a physical examination, or asking such vital questions as whether or not the girls were pregnant. When the story hit the paper, North­ern Illinois administrators hit the roof They brought the four reporters, and an "accomplice" up on charges of violating the school's judicial code by "giving false information to a University official." The administration said it intended to expel the students from the school if they were found guilty. 
have also lied to others about their relationship with the paper and conversations held with Observer staffers. 
One reporter was told that he would not graduate if a particular story was published. Unfortunately, the story never appeared in print. 
Worst of all, another reporter's life was threatened because ofthe things he wrote. 
In our I 5 years ofexistence, The Observer has broken its share of major stories. Last year alone, our news department uncovered the strip-search incident involv­ing St. Mary's students and the South Bend police; the sports department broke national stories involving NBC basketball announcers AI McGuire and Billy Pack­er, the suspension of the school's rugby club, and The Observer reported that Gerry Faust would be named 
Notre Dame's footbali coach 

Horace B. Barks, the presi­more than a month before 
dent of the local chapter of the official announcement. 
Sigma Delta Chi, the society As recently as last week, we 
of professio?'ll journalists, were one of the first papers 
said, "What the students did in the country to report that 
was in accordance with the UCLA would go on NCAA 
finest, and widely accepted, probation. 
professional techniques of As a result of our efforts, 
investigative reporting. we have gained a measure of 
The University this week respectabiltiy among our 
dropped its charges against readers almost unparalleled 
two of the students, claim­by other student papers 
ing "insufficient evidence." nation-wide. But, by the 
But charges against the same token, we are very of­
three others still stand, and ten dismissed as second­
Northern Illinois is still in-rate, along with student 
1 .
tent on expelling them from __ papers in general, by those 
the school. The paper vows outside the student com­
to fight such a move. munity. 
On its surface, this story is Student newspapers play 
an outrage. Unfortunately, behind the story, and behind every student newspaper, there is a sad story. Try as we might, we have trouble gaining credibility. No matter how many times we break a major story, no matter how correct our facts eventually prove to be, we are almost universally dismissed as "just student newspapers." 
The current situation at Northern Illinois is not unique. Two years ago the University of Maine launched a second daily newspaper, run and funded by the University, and successfully forced the independent student paper to cease publication. 
At Stanford, the student paper was ransacked by 
government officials looking for evidence pertaining to 
a student demonstration. 
Believe it or not, similar atrocities have occurred 
here. 
Campus media representatives have been denied press credentials or been given lesser press privileges simply on the basis oftheir status as "just students." 
Administrators and other officials have lied to repor­
ters, denying that which the paper could prove. They a vital role in American journalism. 
Ifyou don't beleive that, ask the student from Kansas that uncovered a nationwide ring of criminals coun­terfeiting designer jeans. Ask the staffof the USC paper, who broke the story of Southern Cal athletes getting credit for classes they never took 
Better yet, ask the people at Northern IIIinois. A good deal oftheir current difficulties may stem from the fact that in 1978, they did another piece of investigative journalism. That :.cries led to the arrest and conviction of the University's former president on a hit-and-run driving charge. 
Observer notes.________, 
ln the Observer Notes section of yesterday's issue, it was incorrectly reported that the 1982 Senior Formal would take place on the weekend of April 14-16. The correct dates are April 16-18. Also, in Friday's edition, Colette St. Aubin was not mentioned as the reporter responsible for tbe question and answer column with Saint Mary's Stu­dent Activities Director Mary Anne O'Donnell. 


,---The_Qhs.eryer_ 
Design Editor.,,,,,,,,,,, Usa Bontempo Design Assistants,,,,,,,,,,.., Tim Neely Paul McGinn Typesetter,,.,.,.,.,.,.,.,.,.,,., Raymond lnglin AI Novas News Editor............... , .. Mary Agnes Carey Copy Editor ....,,,....., ..., ..,Joe Musumeci Features Layout ..,.,,,..,,,,Greg Swiercz Sports Copy Editor...., ...., ...., Ed Konrady TypisL.., ..... ,,.....................,Jeanine Hynes Systems Control ...................Bruce Oakley ND Day Editor....... , ..., .......... Paul McGinn Ad Design ............. , ........... , ..,,Fran & Shag Photographer ......................... Cheryl Ertelt Guest Appearances ..............Johnney Max Chris Mr. Thursday Night Needles 
The Observer (USPS 598 920) 1S published Monday through Fnday and on home football Saturdays. except dunng exam and vacation periods. The Observer IS published by the students of Notre Dame and Samt Maris Col­lege Subscnpt1ons may be purchased for $25 per year ($ t 5 per semester) by wntlng The Observer. P 0 Box Q Notre Dame. lnd1ana 46556. 
The Observer IS a member of The Associated Press All reproduct1on nghts are reserved 
Second class postage pa1d at Notre Dame. lnd1ana 46556 

Gateway to a great way of life. 



Wednesday, December 9, 1981-page 3
The Observer 
'Lessons and Carols' 


~J~~D~~;s pre~~~~~~~"~.~:.~.~'"E:.~~:b~~i 

mayor of the town. Dr. Jack Duggan,.ng SMC President, will read the sixth 


News Staff 
"A Service of Lessons and Carols," directed hy Dr. Raymond Sprague, will be presented tonight at 8 p.m. in the Church of Loretto at Saint 
Mary's. 
"A Series of Lessons and Carols" is 
a late nineteenth century Protestant 
Advent festival whcrt• nine Biblical 
~~;===============;;;::==========::::::;:= 
ll'omen trans£ers stand 
V V I 11 


good Chance at ho USl 
By ROGER WILKE 
News Staff 
.\1any student.~. especially transfer 
students, may he wondering what 
the situation for campus housing 
looks like in the near future. For men 
transferring to Notre Dame. the 
housing situation looks dim. Women 
transfers, however, have an excel­
lent chance of getting campus 
housing. 
For the first time in the ten years 
since women have enrolled at Notre 
Dame, the campus has enough room 
to house all of its female under­
graduates. The addition to the 
campus of Pasquerilla East and West 
has created this unique situation for 
the women, says Sr. John Miriam 
Jones, assistant provost. 
Before the Pasquerillas were built 
women replaced men one to one on 
NDPress sponsors contest 
Notre Dame's Charles and Mar­
garet Hall Cushwa Center for the 
Study of American Catholicism and 
the University of Notre Dame Press 
are sponsoring a contest to select f(Jr 
publication the best manuscript in 
American Catholic studies. 
Although eligible manuscripts will not be limited to a particular academic discipline, they must per­tain to the study of the American Catholic experience. 
Those interested in entering the competition should submit two copies of their manuscripts by Sep­tcmbt·r I, 1982 to Prof. Jay P. Dolan, director, C:ushwa Center, University of Notre Dame. 
Almost Free Travel Drive -No Rental Fees Reservations & Info for 
Cars to AZ, FL, TX Most Major Cities/
States 
CALL NOW
I
Chicago ....312-939-3600 Elkhart .... 219-264-4105 Split Gas with Friends! 
MUST BE AT LEAST 21 YEARS OLD AUTO DRIVL~WAY CO. 
r--------------------------------------~
mARDI GRAS DANCERS iI 
I I 
Remember: I I, I 
to sell sponsorships at home I I I I 
(Mom , Dad, Neighbors, the Dog .... ) I I I I 
IDancer with most sponsorships sold I 
I I I I I I 

I by Jan. 15 wins a I I I 
I I 




I CAR STEREO I 
I I 
I I I I 

----------------------------------------· 
season) arc read and pertinent 
carols arc sung in between each 
selection. The service is one not 
meant to be liturgical but instead 
tries to project the spirit of Christmas to everyone present. 
Four Saint Mary's choirs, the Saint Mary's Women's Choir, Chamber Singers and Collegiate Choir, all directed by Sprague, and the Chapel M. J.uhen.' w1ll be featured m the serv1ce smg1~g son~s and lcad1~g the assembly m Chnstmas carols m b~tween the rea?ings. Gail Walton will be the orgamst for the program. 
The "lessons" themselves are read in the same set order in which they were read at the first festival on Christmas Eve in Truro Cathedral, nd England, in 1880. At that time, 
the readings were "assigned to" ccr­
tain types of people. For example,
the sixth lesson was read by the 


I 

More Diamond For Your Dollar 
All the quality, selection, and service you've come to expect from John M. Morshall's* for less than you'd expect to pay at the mall! 
• Fine diamonds to fit your budget • Each ring made to order for you 
• Dozens of mounting styles • Free lifetime appraisal 
• Free laser-beam Gemprint™ registration 
ivioion of Diamond Import Company 
Suite 629, St. Joseph Bonk Building 
Open Mon.-Fri. 10·6, Sat. 10·2

• Gemologist, G. G., F. G. A .. 
South Bend, Indiana 4660~ 

~~~s~cn t~;~~~~t~:~c; r:::rs a~n~ 
faculty members and students, all of them corresponding to the reading's original orators. 
This event is not new to Saint Mary's. Actually, tonight's perfor­mance will be the fourth time the Christmas tradition was done here. Last year, the service was not per­formed, but in the three years prior to that, the event was regularly held. Sprague is renewing this event this year, hoping to make it an annual tradition during the advent season. All are welcome to come and par­ticipate. 
This student ponders his selection from the variety ofChristmas cards the Bookstore has to offer. (Photo by Cheryl Ertel/) 


The Observer Wednesday, December 9, 1981 page 4 

Observer office manager Shirley Grauel (left) is stepping down from her duties, and will be relocating in Southern California. Diane Koch 
Venezuela and Libya 



Four hijacking sagas continue 



Reagan pJ;edicts record deficit 

NEW YORK, New York (AP) ­Three hijacked Venezuelan jetliners with about 150 hostages aboard landed in Cuba yesterday and ;t com­mandeered Libyan jet with at least 38 hostages touched down in Beirut. All four aircraft were seized a day earlier and had made several stops. 
Officials said the Venezuelan planes, hijacked Monday on domes­tic flights, made stops in Aruba, Colombia, Honduras, Guatemala and Panama. One of the planes was on the ground briefly in El Salvador. 
Officials' confirmed the planes ­
two Aeropostal DC-9s and an Avensa 
Boeing 727 -landed in Cuba, the 
Communist-ruled island 90 miles off 
the Florida coast. 
Passengers freed along the way said 10 hooded and heavily armed people were involved in the highly coordinated operation. The Cuban news agency Prensa Latina said there were 11 hijackers. 
The motive for the hijackings remained a mystery yesterday. Freed passengers and various offi­cials said the hijackers were Venezuelans asking for $1 0 million and the release ofpolitical prisoners -Salvadoran leftists fighting to overthrow the U.S.-backed civilian­miltary junta, or Puerto Rican nationalists seeking independence for the U.S. commonwealth. 
It was not known whether any Americans were aboard any of the four planes. 
• • • OK 
continuedfrom page I 
take the initiative. People have dif­ferent philosophies and one is to work within the system. But if the system isn't helping people, some­thing must be done. I think people care. We know what is right if we think about it. It's just that we're conditioned." 
The program was originally con­ceived as a means for Mrs. Fuchs to provide services for her hand­icapped son, Kurt. As the storefront operation evolved, however, it was not feasible for him to be active in its functioning. Because he is indirectly responsible for the realization of "Opportunity Knocks," the name of 
the OK toyline will bear his name. 
There were conflicting reports 
about the number of hostages still 
aboard the planes in Cuba. Prensa 
Latina reported 108 hostages. Ear­lier reports had estimated there were about I 50 on board, including the hijackers. 
The Libyan jetliner, take over by 
Shiite Moslems to dramatize the dis­
appearance three years ago of their 
spiritual leader, landed in Beirut last 
night after two unsuccessful at­
tempts to touch down, according to 
witnesses. It was the plane's second 
landing in the Lebanese capital in 
less than 24 hours. 

Reporters monitoring the con­
versations said the pilot radioed he 
hd only two hours of fuel left after 
being refused landing permission by 
Cyprus, Lebanon, Syria and Iran. 
The airliner was commandeered 
Monday over Italy by three 
Lebanese supporters ofImam Mous­
sa Sadr, the leader of the Shiite Mos­
lem sect in Lebanon who disappeared after a visit to Libya in August 1978. The Lebanese Shiites charge that Col. Moammar Khadafy, the Libyan leader, is holding him prisoner, but the Libyans said he left Tripoli by plane for Rome. 
The Libyan Boeing 727 landed in 
Rome earlier yesterday after stops in 
Beirut and Athens, Greece. Airport 
authorities said the plane carried at 
least 30 passengers, eight crew and 
five armed men. Libyan officials put 
the number ofhostages aboard at 40, 
including 32 passengers and eight 
crew. 
The hijackers released a pregnant Libyan woman and-her two small children in Beirut and were joined by two members of a militant Lebanese Shiite organization, the Mujahedeen (Warriors) for Imam Sadr. They issued a statement demanding a U.N. investigation of Sadr's disappearance. 
WASHINGTON (AP) -:-Faced with record-smashing deficits that could top $1 00 billion a year, the Reagan administration now says it can .live with a torrent of red ink without rev t ersing its strategy against in~ation and high interest rates. 
In a turnaround from President Reagan's longstanding assertion that deficits are a cause of inflation, senior White House economic ad­visers sought yesterday to downplay that relationship. One member of 
the Council of Economic Advisers, William A. Niskanen, suggested the connection is virtually non-existent. 
Their defense of deficits came in the wake ofreports from administra­tion sources that a new, bleak forecast prepared for the president last week showed the budget deficit surging to a record S 1 09 billion in fiscal 1982, 11>152 billion in 1983 and 5162 billion in 1984. 
Sources said those numbers al­ready had been revised, though only slightly, by the time Reagan met with his advisers yesterday after­noon on his upcoming budget plan. 
Rudolph G. Penner, a budget offi­cial during the Gerald R. Ford administration, said there is "a cer­tain irony" that the record deficit of $66.4 billion, which occurred in 1976, "was set by a conservative president (Ford), and the record 
will  be  broken  by  another  con­ 
servative president."  
Penner  said  the  deficits  now  

projected by the Reagan team are "intolerable" and should be reduced through significant tax increases. 
However, the giant deficit figures do not reflect further spending cuts Reagan likely will propose when he submits his 1983 bugget to Congress early next year, sources noted. 
Chief presidential spokesman David Gergen disputed earlier reports that Reagan had been handed the revised deficit figures last Friday. Gergen, who refused o discuss specific figures, said the president saw the new numbers for the first time yesterday during a general presentation on the budget 
outlook by budget director David A. Stockman. 
The administration plans to whittle down the projected deficits for 1983 and 1984 through a new round of deep spending cuts in domestic programs. But several aides and many private economists doubt the president can make much headway so long as he continues to rule out deeper cuts in Social Security, a slowdown in his record build-up of the military budget or significant tax increases. 
Meanwhile, House Democrats vowed yesterday to oppose an agreement between Reagan and congressional Republicans to cut an additional S4 billion in spending from the 1982 budget and prevent another presidential veto like the one that shut down much of the 
government t(>r a few hours  last  
month.  
However,  the  Democrats  

conceded they probably lack the votes to block passage of the reduc­tions. 
Reagan had campaigned for the presidency on the promise that he would boost defense, slash personal tax rates and cut spendingenough to balance the budget by 1983, a goal he later postponed until 1984. 
As president, Reagan declared in his first economic speech last February, "We know now that infla­tion results from all that deficit spending." 
Reagan virtually fulfilled his defense and tax pledges, but at the expense ofa balanced budget. 
Private and congressional economists have warned that Reagan's program is headed toward record deficits, projections the ad­ministration had been disputing un­til recently. 
Last March, Reagan rejected as "phony" estimates by the non­partisan Congressional Budget Office that his spending estimates for 1982 were S25 billion too low. 
Now, new estimates by the ad­ministration suggest the congres­sional figures may have been vastly understated, and Reagan abandoned his balanced-budget pledge in favor ofa promise to reduce the size ofthe deficit in the years ahead by keeping pressure on Congress for further spending cuts. 


Sunday, Dec. 13 7:30PM NOTRE DAME A.C.C. 
TICKETS ON SALE NOW!!t 
$10.50/9.50 Reserved 
Available at the Box Office, 1st Source Bank, Main Office, St. Joseph's Bank, Elkhart Truth, Robertson 's--South Bend & Elkhart. 
Human Bights Day Thursday , Dec. 10, 1981 


Film: Politics of Torture 
12:30 Wed. 8e Thurs.­LaFortune Little Theater 
Mass: 5:1& Sacred Heart Fr. Hesburgh-Celebrant 


Speaker: Nerri Barrientos 
former detainee in Chile 

7:30 PM Library Lounge 

The Observer Wednesday, December 9, 1981-page 5 



Secretary Haig .leaves on tour 
WASHIN<iTON (AP)-Secretary 
NATO support f(>r. he told reporters of State Alexander M. llaig Jr., 
yesterday, is possible U.S. action prqnring to leave yt.·stcrday on an 
against Libya. Some U.S. allies arc I 1-day trip to seven nations, plans to 
known to question the wisdom of try to bolstcr global determination 
sanctions against the government of to rt.·sist possible Soviet aggression. 
Libyan leader Moammar Khadafy. llaig's first stop will be a meeting 
Haig will be traveling under un­of NATO's fort'ign ministers in Brus­
usually strict security because of sds tomorrow and friday. At the top 
reports, taken seriously in Washing­of thc agenda will bc an assessment 
ton, that he is a possibk target of a of progress in the ll.S.-Sovict missile 
Libyan assassination team. talks in Cieneva. 
The arrival and departure times After the NATO meeting, and a 
t(>r Haig's stops after Brussels were Saturday meeting with officials of 
being kept secret -even from the European Common Market in 
reporters traveling with him. Brusscls. llaig will travel to Israel, 
U.S.-Sovict negotiations aimed at Turkey, Pakistan. India Egypt and 
eliminating medium-range nuclear Morocco bd(>rc he returns to Wash­
missiles from Europe began Nov. 30 ington Dec. 19. 
in Geneva, and Haig will deliver a At each stop, llaig will stress the 
progress report to the other NATO need to bolster defenses against pos­
ministers. sible Soviet aggression, U.S. oftkials 
The Reagan administration wants said. Turkey is a NATO member and 
to proceed with scheduled deploy­Pakistan, Isracl and Egypt are key 
ment of U.S. missiles, beginning in clements in the U.S. strategy to 
late 1983, if the negotiations drag prevent further Soviet incursions in­
on, as most experts think they will. to the Middle East. 
But lJ.S. officials are privately con­In Brussels, Haig will seck a reaf­
cerned over rumblings in West Ger­firmation of NATO's 1979 decision 
many and other European counties to deploy U.S. medium-range nuclar 
that deployment should be delayedmissiles in Europe if the Geneva 
pending the outcome ofthe negotia­talks fail to produce an agreement 
tions. before the scheduled deployment 
World observes Lennon death 
date in late 19H3. U.S. officials say that during "We will be looking for general meetings with India's Prime Minis­NEW YORK, New York (AP) -At concerts and meetings in blocking thcir ascent. support ofboth tracks," said one U.S. ter Indira Gandhi, Haig will stress From the city where he rose to star­Liverpool, in New York and around The pair unfurled a banner saying, dom to the city where he was shot the world -fans recalled Lennon as and
official, referring both to deploy­that the recently approved U.S. arms "Imagine No Arms" showing ment and negotiations with the package for Pakistan, which includes down, John Lennon was remem­a rock'n'roll drea .•..-cr. working­three clenched fists -one clutch­Soviets. He didn't want to be iden­F-16 aircraft, is for regional defense, bered Tuesday on the first anniver­cl<~,Ss hero and house-husband. ing a flower -beneath a broken 
sary ofhis death by fans who listen to "If the rain comes, they run and
tified. and is not intended to threaten In­bomb. One thing Haig won't try to get dia. his records and music. hide their heads," the former Beatie In a letter distributed to bystan­once sang. ders, the climbers said, "A year ago But about I00 wet and cold fans today, John Lennon was murdered.
'liar and provacateur ' 
attended a morning vigil outside the To us, the call ofhis music, which we Dakota, the apartment building are taking up today, is to imagine; to where Lennon lived and died. imagine a world without nuclear


Polish paper renounces Walesa 
They stood behind police bar­arms." 

WARSAW, ·Poland (AP) citizen realizes towards what ment, and warned ofa general strike ricades outside the dark Gothic A Lennon tribute was scheduled Poland's army newspaper yesterday tragedy the Solidarity leadership is ifanti-strike legislation is used. building, holding flowers, candles at the University of Colorado called Solidarity leader Lech Walesa driving the country .. .It marks the But a top parliamentary official and umbrellas as a steady, cold rain Memorial Center fountain in Boul­a liar and provocateur leading a beginning of an open struggle to said yesterday any measures to limit fell. der, Colo., concluding with a group of madmen toward civil war. abolish socialist rule." strikes would come in a labor law to Lennon's widow, Yoko Ono, ap­candlelight vigil. 
Meanwhile, "iO,OOO students The Soviet news agency Tass said be discussed by Parliament soon. parently was not inside. A spokes­In Kansas City, a memorial vigil ended college sit-ins at the urging of "slandering the party's social and The official said Parliament was not man said she had gone off with her and march were organized by The the Catholic primate, Archbishop economic policy" was the goal of considering a separate law on a state 6-year-old son, Sean, to meditate. Dreamers, an organization formed Jozcf Glcmp, but "iO,OOO others Solidarity, launched 16 months ago ofemergency or outright strike ban. In San Francisco, where Lennon to discuss Lennon's ideals. stayed on strike. as the first union free ofCommunist Thousands of students in 36 performed in his last live concert as In Liverpool, a concert and 
The attack on Walesa in the army Party control in the Soviet bloc. strike-bound colleges and univer-a Beatie in 1966, a man and a woman candlelight vigil were planned with newspaper Zolnicrz Wolnosci Solidarity's Warsaw branch said, sitics resumed classes, ending their protesting the nuclcar arms race and five five bands performing Beatles' followed publication of his state-"It is not the union that wants con-sit-in protest for academic reforms marking the anniversary of Lennon's hits for three hours, followed by a ment at a meeting in Radom last frontation, but the stand of the au-after re;;ceiving a second personal ap­death climbed up the side of a silent vigil and prayer. Thursday that a confrontation be-thorities is such that we must say it is peal from Glemp. highrise office building. In Japan, hundreds of admirers tween the Communist government the authorites who are pressing for a Some 100,000 students had oc-They were identified as Edwin planned to troop to a hall near the and the independent union was confrontation." cupied 71 of Poland's 91 higher Drummond, 36, an experienced site of the Beatles first performance 
"inevitable." The Communist Party Solidarity's national press spokes-education centers for varying British-born climber, and Lia Sim­in Japan. The tribute was to include media Monday accused Walesa of man, Marek Brunne, declined offi-periods of up to a month to demand nacher, 21. screenings of three Lennon movies urging overthrow of the govern-cial comment on the worsening a new academic reform law that The climbers halted between the and live rock music. ment. situation, and cautioned that much would allow students greater voice eighth and ninth stories when build-Elsewhere, Lennon tributes were 
"By his behavior he has shown he of what was said during the Radom in choosing administrators and ing officials removed a pane ofglass planned by rock music stations in is a great liar and provocateur," the meeting was "spontaneous, not restrict police access to campuses. from a window on the ninth floor, virtually every part of the world. 
~ny~~r~~~ili~··~w~ t~u~toR~mdjuMmic~inaili~============================================== 
threat ofcivil war hangs over Poland cussion." and those madmen who want to un­
Wo proof'
Solidarity leaders in Radom, in aleash it arc putting their ambitions communique, threatened a 24-hourand interests above the fate of the national protest if extraordinarycommunity. 




Scientists link TSS, tampons

powers were granted the gove_rn­
"It is high time that every Polish NEW YORK (AP)-University of rare. Its dramatic symptoms and toxin. Wisconsin researchers have found mysterious onset prompted a Schlievert said he does not think new preliminary evidence that toxic nationwide effort to find the cause. Bergdoll has gathered enough data
WINTER WELCOME WEEK '82 ., 
shock is linked to tampon use, but Toxic shock has been publicized to be sure of that conclusion yet.
Start your semester out right 
other researchers said yesterday as a disease that strikes menstruating there is still no proof that tampons women, but it is also found in ·Even if Bergdoll does discover cause the illness. children, men and patients who that tampons encourage production
All week: 
The Wisconsin researchers an­have recently undergone surgery. of the toxin, it will not solve the nounced last spring that they had There is also some evidence that riddle of why tampon use seems to


Snow Football 
discovered a bacterial toxin that the illness is contagious. be associated with l·lxic shock,
Coed teams of 6 
seems to be linked to toxic shock The National Centers for Disease researchers said. syndrome. They have been trying Control recorded 1,407 cases of since then to determine whether toxic shock, 80 of which resulted in 
There is reason to believe that the 

tampons somehow affect the death. Most of those cases were
january 14: 
bacterial toxin identified byproduction ofthe suspect toxin. recorded since 1979, when the Bergdoll, called enterotoxin F, isThe researchers have some disease was first identified.



Tubing at Bendix 
linked to toxic shock. But It is not evidence that bacteria grown on Professor Merlin Bergdoll, the proven. Schlievert has discovered a

No charge, transportation provided 
tampons produce greater amounts head of the Wisconsin research toxin called pyrogenic exotoxin Cof the toxin than bacteria grown on teallJ, refused repeatedly yesterday that also appears to be related to other materials, according to yester­to discuss the research with repor­

Sign up now with the 
toxic shock. 

day's Wall StreetJournal. ters. 

Student Union secretary. 
Studies show that women who Patrick Schlievert, a toxic shock use tampons, especially the super­authority at the University of Min­"No one knows whether these

Deadline is Dec. 14 
absorbent type, are more likely than nesota who is familiar with toxins are the product that causes others to get toxic shock. Bergdoll's work but who has not yet the syndrome," said Dr. Arthur Rein­

Any questions, 
Toxic shock is characterized by seen the data, said it is too soon to gold of the CDC in Atlanta. "It's not fever, nausea and a rapid drop in tell whether the tampons actually clear if they are two different toxins
contact Steve 77S7 or 1748 
blood pressure. The illness is very promote the production of the or the same toxin." 


Wednesday, December 9, 1981-page 6 

Eeatures 
The best and worst of a mediocre lot 
T
he year 1981, in musical terms, was not bad. It wasn't especiallygood either. Then again, I haven't heard a truly good year for music since 1972 ("American Pie," "Alone Again (Naturally)," "A Horse with No 
Music 1981 
By Tim Neely 
Name" and others). It gets harder and harder to pick the ten worst songs ofthe year because of the quantity of material from which to 
choose. At the same time, it gets harder and harder to pick the ten best because I have to struggle to find ten I can compare to past clas­sics. 
Anyway, enough rambling, and on to the top ten and bottom ten albums and 45s of 1981 (including the last two months of1980), in the opinion ofthis reviewer. Two warnings before I continue: one, the 45s are limited to those which made the top 40 because ofquan­tity and familiarity; two, this should not be construed to reflect the opinion ofThe Ob­server as a whole, or anyone else on campus, for that matter. 
The Top Ten Singles of1981 
1. 
"The Breakup Song" by the Greg Kihn Band -they don't write 'em like this any more...at least not very often. Unbelievably catchy. 

2. 
"The Voice" by the Moody Blues -from a group which almost never puts out a bad single, their best since "The Story in Your Eyes" in 1971. 

3. 
"Start Me Up" by the Rolling Stones ­their best leadoffsingle from any album since "Tumbling Dice" fromExile on Main Street in 1972. A catchy Stones 45 without creating.its catchiness artificially (i.e., by disco beat). 

4. 
"All Those Years Ago" by George Har­rison (with Ringo Starr and Paul and Linda McCartney) -George wrote it straight from the heart, and you can tell. It is his best crafted song that he did not steal. 

5. 
"Stop Draggin' My Heart Around" by Stevie Nicks (with Tom Petty and the Heartbreakers) -Nicks comes across more like the Welsh Bitch than the Welsh Witch...and it works. 


6_ "Rock and Roll Dreams Come Through" byJim Steinman-who needs Meat Loaf to sing his songs? One ofthe songs which made "American Top 40" something to look for­
ward to, as South Bend never played it other­wise. 
7. 
"Nobody Wins" by EltonJohn-an almost eerie song far surpassing ()any otherof his last five years' output. 

8. 
"Watching the Wheels" by John Lennon -he lets the world know what he was up to for five years; may be the best song on a well­crafted album (Double Fantasy). 

9. 
"This Little Girl" by Gary U.S. Bonds ­thanks to Bruce Springsteen, Bonds retu t rns with asong which is not merely a parody ofhis early-sixties material; it is better than much of it. 


I 0. "Too Much Time on My Hands" by Styx -mainly because it sounds very little like any other hit Styx single, thank God. 
Honorable Mention. "just the Two ofUs" by 
Grover WashingtonJr. (with Bill Withers)­it isn't anything truly great, but it hit me the right way when it came out..and it still does. After all the others have been forgotten, this one may be the song I remember from 1981. The TopTenAlbumsof1981 
l.MakingMovies by Dire Straits-Mark Knopfler writes better "out in the streets" songs than Bruce Springsteen, and Dire Straits performs them well. In other words, the band out-Springsteen Springsteen. 
2. Tattoo You by the Rolling Stones -yes folks, there is something mote left of"The World's Greatest Rock and Roll Band" than a shallow facade. May be their best album ever. 
3.Sandinista! by the Clash-the most prolific group since the Beatles, with some­thing like 80 songs recorded in a little over a year, 36 of them here...and they never drag or get boring. 
4. 
Dawn ofthe Silver Beatles -ten previously-unreleased Beatles tracks from their first audition for Decca Records on January 1, 1962, including two Lennon­McCartney originals which aren't on any other Beatles album. Only disadvantage is that it is available only by mail order. 

5. 
Double Fantasy byJohn Lennon and Yoko Ono-even Ono has some very good songs on here, and Lennon's are among ifnot his best, then certainly his most accessible. Why did Mark David Chapman have to come: along? 

6. 
Long Distance Voyager by the Moody Blues -as usual, a finely crafted album from the granddaddy ofall synthesizer-rock groups...and they still do it better than any of the others. 


7.Season ofGlass by Yoko Ono-an amazing album considering her limited vocal range and the short time after Lennon's death that it was recorded. As usual, AM, FM, and the public wouldn't give it a chance. 
8. 
Beauty and the·Beat by the Go-Go's ­Their debut album is an example of worthwhile music by a new artist, a very un­common situation today. 

9. 
Arc ofa Diver by Steve Win wood ­many ofthe songs were co-written by Will Jennings, a proven hitmaker with Barry Manilow. "While You See a Chance" is a mar­velous pop song. 


10.Hilnfidelity by REOSpeedwagon-for the first time, they have more than one good song on the same all-new-material album. 
The Bottom Ten Singles of1981 
1. 
"Why Do Fools Fall in Love" by Diana Ross -Frankie Lymon, who recorded this back in 1956, must be spinning (not just tur­ning over) in his grave with this awful version. 

2. 
"Sukiyaki" by A Taste ofHoney-should never have been translated from thejapanese. The group should never have been rranslated from the Disco Era. 

3. 
"It's Now or Never" byJohn Schneider­he proved he can't act on "The Dukes of Haz­zanJ"; he proves he can't sing either on this one. 

4. 
"Elvira" by the Oak Ridge Boys -one of the problems with so many country songs hit­ting the pop charts is that the inane sometimes cross over as well. Such is the case here. 


5. "Endless Love" by Diana Ross and Liom:-1 Richie -the movie was better than the song, 

which isn't saying much. Ross was basically clueless with her selection ofmaterial in 1981 (see 1 also). 
6. "Boy from New York City" by Manhattan Transfer-one ofthose records which makes me· vigorously turn the radio dial every time I hear that dorky "Ba-doom doom doom doom doom do wah do wah" or whatever at the 
beginning. 
7. 
"Tell It Like It Is" by Heart-one ofthe few songs from the sixties I absolutely hate (Aaron Neville did it then), and this is even worse than that version. 

8. 
"Back in Black" by AC/DC -an absolute­ly horrible "singer" singing an absolutely hor­rible "song." Closest thing to pure noise to hit the AM (or FM) airwaves in many a year. 

9. 
"Miss Sun" by Boz Scaggs -still trying to make a living imitatingSilk Degrees, his big­gest and best album. 

10. 
"The Beach Boys Medley" -thanks to the miracle ofelectronics, eight Beach Boys songs played in different tempos and sung in different keys become a four-minute-long hit. It doesn't work, folks. (You may have noticed that seven ofthe above ten songs are remakes. There are always bad remakes -more often than there are good remakes -but this was the first year in rock history where there were so many this bad. There may yet be hope for originality!) 


The Bottom Ten Albums of1981 
I. Urban Chipmunk by the Chipmunks ­does for country music what Ronald Reagan does for the poor_..nothing. 
2. Heavy Metal Soundtrack -exactly one good song on the entire album ( Devo's "Working in the Coal Mine"), the rest is dis­posable. Biggest waste ofvinyl since No Nukes. 
3.Fair Waming by Van Halen-how their albums sell, I don't know. Best used as a Fris­bee out on the quad. 
4. There Goes the Neighborhood by joe Walsh-in other words. "There GoesJoe Walsh." Stick with the Eagles, joe. 
S. Gaucho by Steely Dan -a better name would bt: Ripoff, as it is little more than an overpriced ( S9.981ist for one record) reworking ofAja, one ofthe most overrated 
albums ofthe seventies. 
6. Dir~y Deeds Done Dirt Cheap by AC/DC -a five-year-old album which could have waited another 50 years before being released here, for all I care. An Illinois couple sued AC/DC because their phone number was used in the title song. It serves the ba~d right. 
7./ntensities in Ten Cities by Ted Nugent -each new Nugent release is met with greater and greater indifference. Let's keep our fingers crossed; maybe the next one will be totally ignored. 
8.DadLoves His Work byJames Taylor-a sleeper in the true sense of the word, as the first time I tried to listen to it I did exactly that...fell asleep. 
9. Made in America by the Bh-1es Brothers -the novelty has worn off. Stick to the original versions and put two phonies out of work,please... 
10. Modern Times byJefferson Starship -

not even the return ofGrace SlJck saves this al­
bum. Come on, guys, if"Stairway to Cleveland" is your reply to the music critics of the world, who have justifiably panned your recent "efforts," we can answer back in kind if you want us to...gladly. 
Other Assorted Awards ofMerit (or Otherwise) 
Best singles which didn't make the top 40 -"Walking on Thin Ice" by Yoko Ono...a hauntingpiece recorded the night ofLennon's death; "For You" by Manfred Mann's Earth Band...no one does better versions of Springsteen songs; and "Tbe Farmer's 
Daughter" by Fleetwood Mac... an exquisite 
remake ofan obscure Beach Boys song. 
Best newcomer -The Go-Go's...a New Wave band which actually had a top-20 album this year (surprise, surprise). More amazing yet, it was theirfirst album! 
BestLP cover -Hard Promises by Tom 
Petty and the Heartbreakers... look closely at it 
and you can see Petty looking at a rack ofal-· 
bums priced at S8.98, an in-your-face directed 
at MCA Records for attempting to list-price 
the record at 59.98. 
Worst LP cover -Shot ofLove by Bob Dylan...go to your local record store and see it for yourself. I won't spoil the surprise. 
Most boringLPcover -MakingMovies by Dire Straits... maybe they wanted it to be called The RedAlbum; two colors does not a cover make. 
Comeback ofthe Year-Gary U.S. 
Bonds...not just a great single (see Best Single 
9 ), but a good album too, after 19 years with­
out a hit record. Can Gene Pitney be far be­
hind? Or even Bobbv Vee? 
EtJents ofthe Year -I. Simon and 
Garfunkel's reunion concert in New York's 
Central Park in September. where 500,000 
people saw hem (and more to come on a pos­
sible tour); 2. The discovery ofa 1958 record­
ing by the Quarrymen (an ancestor ofthe 
Beatles), featuring "That'II Be the Day" on one 
side Uohn Lennon, lead vocal) and a 
previously-unknown Paul o\lcCartney-George 
Harrison composition (the only known col­
laboration between the two), "In Spite ofAll 
the Danger"; 3. The Rolling Stones' first 
massive United States tour in years, which 
broke all kinds of box-office records, coincid­
ing with the release of their biggest chart al­
bum ever (nine weeks at number one). 
Non-events oftheyear-I. The new album by Bruce Springsteen; 2. The new album by Boston; 3. Dan ·Fogelberg in concert at the Athletic and Convocation Center, Notre Dame, Indiana, October 28, 1981. 
Worst doctoring ofthe 45 version ofanal­bum track -Atlantic Records wins for "In the Air Tonight" by Phil Collins...they over­dubbed a drum throughout the first part ofthe song, ruining the effect ofthe sudden burst of drums toward the end. Shame, shame. 
Worst new duet -Diana Ross and Lionel 
Richie...their voices don't blend well at all. For 
more dirt, see Worst Single 5. 
Worst old duet -Kenny Rogers (in his mid-40s) and anybody Onefinal thought -whatever happened to novelty hits? 

The Nutcracker 
People flock to yearly favorite 

The Observer--Features Wednesday, December 9, 1981-page 7 
E
very year at Christmas hundreds of ballet companies a1..·ross the nation mount their respective versions ofThe Nutcracker. For many of these com· panics, the assured box office receipts from this pcrt·nnial favorite arc the foundation upon which the rest of tht• fiscal year rests. Many a 

Angelo Adamson 
The Art Gallery 
budding ballerina receives her first 
public attt·ntion in The Nutcracker. 
Many an aspiring dancer, myself in· 
eluded, became inspired by watch­
ing this ballet. The Nutcracker was 
the first ballet I saw, at the ripe old 
ag1..· ofeight. For myself, and for little girls all over Amt·rica, it was love at first sight. But the ballet was not al­ways so highly favored. 
The idea for the ballet presumably 
belongs to Ivan Alcxandrovich 
Ysevolozhsky. the director of the 
Imperial Tht·atcrs in Russia. 
Ysc:olozhsky is credited with making 
tht· ballet a passion in Russia through 
his shrn\'d management of the 
tht·atc:rs. lie commissioned a reluc· 
tant Tchaikovsky to compose a 
score based on Alexandre Dumas' 
adaptation of E. T. A. Hoffmann's 
"The Nutcracker and the The Mouse King." Tchaikovsky resigned himself to the task and composed the music 
according to the detailed directions of Marius Petipa. the ballet master (choreographer) to the Imperial Theaters. Petipa was a meticulous task master going so far as to request thirty two counts of walking music at times. Petipa had worked on the libretto and finished a musical cue book, when, at the age ofseventy, he became very ill. His assistant, Lev Ivanov, took over the production before rehearsals began in August of 1892. The final book, as well as the choreography was by Ivanov, al­though Petipa is often credited. 
Tchaikovsky was not pleased with the score. At the time he was working on an opera. (Iolanthe) which he felt was more interesting. The only part of the music that got him the least bit excited was his dis· covery ofa new instrument in Paris called the celesta. The Sugar Plum Fairy's variation is played on the tin· kling instrument which Tchaikovsky kept as a guarded secret. Today the 
music is almost as famous as the bal­
let. 
The Nutcracker was first per· formed on Dec. 17, 1892 at the Maryinsky Theater in St. Petersburg. The ballet appeared on the same program withIolanthe. The evening was considered a dual flop. The audience did not appreciate the Ger­man story, nor did they like the use ofchildren on stage. They felt there was too much mime and too little dancing. The ballerina who danced the Sugar Plum Fairy was said to be ugly; the music was said to be banal. The ballet sunk into immediate dis­repute, although it continued to be 

The Christtnas Trivia Quiz 
W
ell t<>lks, this is it -the last quiz of 1981. There will be more to come in 1982, ofcourse. 
By Tim Neely 
But before I bid the year adieu, first the answers to last week's "girlie" quiz: 
I. "Denise"-Randy and the Rainbows 
2. "Jenny Take a Ride" -Mitch Ryder and the Detroit Wheels 
.3. "Sylvia's Mother" -Dr. Hook and the Mt·dicinc Show 
4. "Kathy's Song"-Simon and Garfunkel 
S. "Gudbuy !'Jane" -Slade 
6. 
"Peggy Sue" -Buddy Holly 

7. 
"Oh! Carol" -Neil Sedaka 


H. "Wcndy"-The Beach Boys 
9. "Carrie-Anne" -The Hollies I 0. "Josie" -Steely Dan This week I will diverge ever so 
slightly from rock. This week, ap· propriately, I am offering a Christmas music quiz. Someone, I cannot recall who, gave me this idea last year. I did not usc it then; now is the time. 
I. The two biggest-selling single recordings ofall timt· both arc Christma.~ classics. Name number one and numbcr two by titk and art· ist. 
2. Who madt· "Jinglt-Bell Ro<:k" famous? 
5. About tt·n yt·ars ago, an unusual version ofa ~tandard ChriMmas song was making tht· rounds of radio airwaves. and almost became a top· ·lO hit dt·spite having been originally rckased in J9';S. Name the songand the group pert(>rming it. 
4. What was Simon and Gar· funkel's Christmas song, recorded in the late sixties and, I believe, originally released on A Very Merry Christmas. an album offered by W. T. Grant stores? 
S. "Plea.~t· Come Homt· for 
Christmas" was a top-20 hit for the Eagles in 1978, but who originally • recorded it? 
6. What is the name of the Christmas standard which begins: Chestnuts roasting on an open fire 
jack Frost nipping at your nose And also, what is its subtitle? 
7. Perhaps the best rock 'n' roll Christmas album ever recorded has been released on three or four dif. ferent labels (including Apple Records). It is a various-artists set featuring some ofthe top girl groups ofthe early sixties, and despite the musical chairs with labels it is still 

available and still gets played at Christmas time. Name the album. 
8. What was the Christmas song 
·­
rtt~~f 

performed. Tchaikovsky died think· ing The Nutcracker was a bitter failure. 
Eventually the ballet travelled west in altered and truncated ver­sions. Slowly, in this country, it began to take hold. Perhaps the greatest boost the ballet received came from George Balanchine, America's foremost (ballet) choreographer, who dirccted the work fo t r the New York City Ballet in 19S4. This production included thirty-nine children. Today the num­bn has grown to forty-five. Rudolph Nureyev ami Mikhail Baryshnikov have also created versions ofthe bal· let. I suppose at this point I should give the scenario, or story line, ofthe ballet. However. were you to return home for Christmas break to see your own local version ofAmerica's favorite ballet, the chances are likely that the scenario is different from any that I might give. There are as many different Nutcracker's as there are companies that perform them. Balanchine's version includes varia­tions that wece not included in the original version. Nureyev's version uses an adult ballerina to play the main character ofClara rather than a child. Baryshnikov has adapted his 
version into a Freudian psycho· drama. My advice to you would be simply to go and enjoy your own region's production -almost every city in America has a Nutcracker. If yours does not, and you would like to see this Christmas tradition, Mic· hiana offers two versions. Like The Grinch Who Stole Christmas I high· ly recommend this annual event. 
recorded by Paul McCartney in 1979? 
9. While on the subject of Christmas rock, can you name the seasonal songs recorded by each of these acts: 
a. 
john Lennon 

b. 
Keith Richards 

c. 
Greg Lake 

d. 
Jethro Tull 

e. 
Bruce Springsteen 


I 0. And to close this quiz ap· propriately, who made these songs hits: 
a. 
"Auld Lang Sync" 

b. 
"Christmas Auld Lang Sync" 

c. 
"Same Old Lang Sync:" 


For convenience, the answers to toda_y's quiz will appear in today's Personals column. 
...............[EAGLE~ 
~~Mf ~~Mt f~~ L~~l~lMAn 

0 
0 
0 
0 0 
p~ 
Pool fears wash away 
with a big splash 
I
f God had meant for me to swim, He would have given me gills. That's what I used to think, from my humble beginnings as a wading youngster to that first day Islowly descended into the murky depths oftht· four-foot pool in the Rock. Despite my growing up in Phoenix, Arizona, where every other house has a swimming pool to jump in when the temperature hits one hundred degrees, I some­how never learned to swim. 
It wasn't that Ididn't take swimming lessons.. ( did. But while all of the othersecond and third graders were turning into fish, my ft-ar of the water prevented me from progressing any farther than a rock. Once, when we had to swim across the two-foot pool during a race, I "walked" across on my hands, losing the race, hands down. My coor­dination was so out ofsync that all I did was sink. 
It came as no surprise, then, that I didn't pass the swimming test for physical education here at Notre Dame, and so it came to pass that I found myself with thirty other students whose More Ramirez grades on the swim test were 

also "below C-level." 
"Thank God," I sighed in 
relief, "I'm not the only one." 
The first day in the water was a disaster. I don't think I'd had my 
entire head submerged in H20 since baptism. A startling revelation 
was disclosed to me on this day: I couldn't float. I couldn't "walk" 
across the pool this time..it was four feet deep. I felt like a submarine t. 
A classmate observed my troubles and offered me this bit of 
advice: "Think ofyourself," he said, "as a boat. Yeah, imagine you're a 
boat, gliding across the water. Then you'll float." 
I tried it again, flexing my bow and stern before I began. Then I 
shoved offat one-tenth ofa knot. And I felt like a boat, all right .. the 
Titanic. When my feet touched bottom I knew it was all over. So 
much for freestyle. 
After a few weeks came the backstroke. By this time I had figured 
out how to float on my back. All I had to do was imagine that I was a 
piece ofwood. Driftwood. Coordination came a little easier this time 
around. Speed didn't. I lay on my back in the water, doing the frog 
kick as best I could, dosing my eyes in intense concentration. What 
form, I thought. What championship style. I'm a natural. After a 
minute ofvigorous aquatic exercise, I dared to open my eyes. I 
checked the wall markers and my heart sank along with my body. I 
had traveled five feet. 
By now most ofthe class had advanced to The Big Pool. Being in The Big Pool was a sign ofaccomplishment; it became our mission (Operation Breaststroke: Get to The Big Pool), while our com­mando barked out the orders: Hall, lane one, Big Pool! Gomez, lane one! Ramirez, flex a little more! Pryor, lane one! Miss DeBoer, lane: six! Ramirez, you're too tense! Gomez, stop fooling around! Ba<:k to the small pool, Gomez! Ramirez, relax more! 
I never had to worry about being sent back to the small pool be· cause I never escaped it in the first place. But I was making progress. Ihad the scissor· kick ma.~tered. Iwas using only one float. "I may not be able to do the: frog kick," I declared proudly, "but I never saw a frog who could do the scissorkick, either." 
One day I looked around and discovered that I was the only ont· left in the small pool. Everyone else had graduated to lanes one, two, and six. This was the seaweed that broke the seahorse's back. Float in hand, I rolled up the sleeves in my mind and preparcd to do battle with the small pool. 
Iput on the float cautiously. watching suspiciously for any sudden moves by the water. Then, with all the energy that I could mustcr. I did the breaststroke, remembering the three steps that our instruc­tor had outlined for us: pull, kick, recover...pull, kick, recover...pull, kick, rccover...and at last I heard the voice ofCoach Stark command, "Ramirez, lane: one." 
I had done it1 I had broken free ofthe clutches ofthe: small pool! Mark Spitz would have been proud. Walking out of the Rock, my hair still wet, somc:ont· askt·d me, "Gee, what kind ofswimmer are you'" "First-class," I answered. I hadn't lied. Swimming was my tlrst class of the day. 
You never know when you might need a skill like swimming, and so I'm glad that peoplt: like me have the opportunity to learn it hcrt: at Notre Dame. There's no overwork, no extra cost, and no pain in· volved. Well, I have been having a slight pang in my lower back. 
Maybe I'm growing a dorsal tin. 


~-~ ~----~-~---------~---------------------------­
Wednesday, December 9, 1981-page 8

Editorials 
Hard Times for Christians 
This week marks the first anniver­sary of the death of John Lennon. We have been treated to the usual deluge of reminisces, tributes, and analyses of Lennon, his music, and his life. We have been reminded how Lennon "worked for peace," "was a working-class hero,'' and how 'when Lennon died, a piece of the rest of us died." Pretty heady stuff for a rock musician. 
I mourned the passing of John Lennon. He obviously affected the lives of many people, perhaps mil­lions of them, and he died in a most tragic. way. His death showed the need for stricter gun laws, and it pointed to the constant danger that any public person is in. But, I don't sec why all these writers find him such an inspirational character. 
I have to laugh when I hear Len­non described as "a working-class hero." He was worth 250 million dollars when he died. 250 million dollars. Sure, he may have been poor when he was growing up (not that poor in reality), he may have sung a song entitled Working-Class Hero," but that is as far as the relation goes. 
A working-class hero is a man or woman that works in a steel mill or a coal mine, raises a family, and sends three or four kids to college. No one ever knows a working-class hero's name, except his kids. No one ever 
•thanks him. If Lenrion, that tortured soul that his admirers describe him as, had really cared about the working-class, he would have done something with all that money. Len­non could have bought an hourofTV time to broadcast his message of "peace and love" on every TV net­work in the world (and would have had $150 million left),but he didn't. 
He was a fat, rich, spoiled rock star. I don't begrudge him for this; I just don't see him as a hero. But I don't mean to savage Len­
non. He didn't pretend to be anything he wasn't. It's his fans that have lost their perspective and are trying to make him bigger than life. Still, something Lennon said in 1966 troubles me to this day. lt was some­thing to the effect that the Beatles were bigger than Jesus. It was, and is, the truth. The Rolling Stones are 
bigger than Jesus too. 

There's another anniversary c-om­
ing up this month; Christmas. 
Sometimes· it's hard to tell who is 
celebrating what; Christians, the 
birth of Jesus or the business com­
munity, its increased sales. There 
doesn't seem to be that much Christ 
in Christmas anymore. It looks like 
some hard times for Christians. 
I hear a lot of talk about Chris­tians, but to tell you the truth, I haven't seen many lately. The 'best Christian· I know (by the examp'le of his actions, Jesus' standard). describes himself as a "left-wing Jewish atheist." Yet, he is one of the few people I know who is actively trying to live up to the ideal of Jesus. 
Look around you; how many 
people really try to live up to the 
words of Jesus? .. .you hypocrites! 
You pay your tithe ... and have 
neglected the weighter matter of the 
Law-justice, mercy, good faith! 
You are straining out gnats and 
swallowing camels. Jesus dido't 
mince words, that's for sure. How 
about this one? It is easier for a 
camel to pass through the eye of a 
needle than for a rich man to enter 
heaven. Something to think about 
while we all line up for med school, 
law school, Proctor and Gamble, and 
our eventual (we hope) $50,000 a 
year. 

Millions of Americans won't have 
much of a Christmas this year, or any 
year. Through his economic 
program, our president, an un­
ashamed 'Christian' if there ever was 
one, is enshrining greed and selfish­ness as national virtues. When I was naked, did you clothe rrie? When 1 was hungry, did you feed me? ... 
While we discuss "supply-side economics" and tigure out ways to explain to the poor why they will have to suffer even more, it doesn't matter that Jesus said this: I say this solemnly. in so far as you neglected to do this to one ofthe least ofthese, you neglected to do it to me ... ·· 
Ur, how can a 'Christian' explain the largest peacetime military buil­dup ever? The subsidizing of slaughter in El Salvador? How can the U.S. acknowledge and approve of the enslavement of 16 million blacks in South Africa? You must sell 
e1•erything you own and follow me ... 
What was that l heard about an 
amendment declaring America "A great Christian nation?'' 
Or we at Notre Dame, one of the great (and continually growing) bas­tions of corporate wealth in America. We have one of the most affluent stu­dent bodies in the country, we are earnestly building the endowment, and we love to congratulate ourselves on being the ··university that cares." 
You pay your tithes... Blessed are the poor in spirit: j(Jr theirs is the kingdom ldheaven. Blessed are they that mourn: for they shall be comforted. Blessed are are the meek: f(Jr they shall inherit the earth. Blessed are they which do hunger and thirst are righteousness:j(Jr they shall be filled. 
AnthOny Walton 
Outside Wednesday 
Blessed are the merciful: for they shall obtain mercy. Blessed are the pure in heart:for they shall see God. Blessed are the peacemakers:for they shall be called the children of God. Blessed are they which are per­secuted for righteousness' sake: For theirs is the kingdom ofheal'ell.,. 
Perhaps 1' m preaching, it's just some stuff I was thinking about. Merry Christmas. 


McTaggart reports on United Way 
To the Notre Dame Student Body: 
Organizing ana tryini to manage an effort which would have every student on campus contacted in a door to door solicitation is no easy task. Some deadlines were missed, communication broke down a times, wrong messages were sent uninten­tionally, and imperfect human nature took its course. 
Organization begins on the drive far ahead of the week allotted for the actual solicitation. Hall presidents are met, vice-presidents are in­formed, and section leaders are ap­prised of the rational, the goals, and the procedures of collection. Surely in the midst of such a large undertak­ing the best of intentions and or­ganization do not always result in unflawed operation. 
All that aside, the Notre Dame Student Body responded in outstand­ing fashion. Considering the volun­teer time and sheer good will and effort in this drive, our student body 
is exemplary! You are to be com­
mended, mem and women of Notre 
Dame. The $9,000 and 74/ participa­
tion you contributed is an excellent 
manifestation of your good will and 
Christian charity. This money will 
help mend a few lives, heal a few 
hurts, and provide some moments of 
respite in the lives of the poor and 
marginated. This is a result of your 
work and contributions. But in addi­
tion, our goal from the outset has al­
ways been one ofeducation. To work together as one student body in a common endeavor, to experience first hand what the bulk of society does in regard to this drive, and to turn our focus on the city of South Bend and its needs--this is education and experience of the kind that is ex­pected from folks who care about one · another and about their city. 
What seems like such a trite saying rings appropriately true now--you make it happen. Who can offer thanks for the poor? This is not our position. But it is our position and sincere desire to thank you, the stu­den( body, for you response. My per­sonal thanks also to some fine young within that their time and effort and work has, in the final analysis, been for the Lord. Thanks Sean and Joe, Tom and John, and Mary Frances. And special thanks to The Observer-­what great cooperation and help you gave us this year. 
With appreciation and admiration to and for the student body, 
Bro. Joe McTaggart, C.S.C. Office ofCampus Ministry 
• • • another view 
Dear Editor; Recently, the dor­mitory organizers of the campus­wide United Way campaign knocked upon my door and in no uncertain terms demanded that I surrender up to their well-intentioned superiors two dollars. I was politely informed by these representatives of the United Way that two dollars in American currency was the sum determined by the United Way organizers to be my fair share. They did not appreciate my uncomprehending stare and decided to explain to me that Notre Dame was a campus that cared and as 

men' and women. They know 
of this benign un· • it was 
my natural duty to care and hand over the two dollars. I was altogether amazed by the directness used in the United Way's approach. Their insis­tence that I pitch in and help out soon began to annoy me. I had just made up my mind that I really didn't give a damn when one of these solicitors said something to the effect that if everyone in the hall failed to con­:ribute we would never hope to achieve one hundred per cent par­ticipation and Dillon Hall would once again garner all the glory. 
But, Mr. Editor, it struck me as 
odd that the notion of competition 
had invaded that finest of human ac­
tions called charity. Granted, this is a 
competitive campus (as evidenced by 
our venerable athletic tradition) but I 
hardly think a charitable organization 
like the United Way should make use 
of our campus' fine competitive 
tradition for any purpose, honorable 
or otherwise. I was always of the 
opinion that a charitable donation 
was something you gave freely out of 
a compulsion to do good or to escape 
the bracket creep of taxes. To be 
asked to donate because another hall 
might outdo you and gamer your glory seems an awfully poor excuse for soliciting donations. I am afraid, Mr. Editor, that your newspaper must shoulder the responsibility for some of this. Printing what amounts to a ratings chart in order to goad the hesitant into participation is a direct contravention of the charitable spirit the United Way is attempting to in­still. Ratings work wonders for television sit-coms and college foot­ball teams, but in the realm of charity, Mr. Editor? Come on now. 
Personally, I see nothing wrong with refusing to donate money to the United Way or any t other charity attempting to wring money out of me by shoving competition down my 
throat. I still have my fair share tucked inside my desk, right next to an empty football-ticket book. There it will remain until the United Way asks me very nicely for it (without mentioning glory or Dillon Hall). I cannot look into the minds of other students, but I would imagine there are others out there whose arms bear the unmistakable burns left by some 
well-meant arm-twisting. 
Joseph Dolan Los Angeles 

==IhenbserYer== 
Founded November 3, 1966 
T_he f?bserver is an independent newspaper published by the students of the Umverstty of ~?tre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the poltetes of the ~~inistration of either institution. The news is report­ed a~ a.c:curately and as ob)eettvely as possible. Editorials represent the opinion of a maJonty of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, opinions and letters are the views of their authors .. Column s~ace is. a~ailable to all members of the community, and the free expressiOn of varymg optmons on campus; t:h£ouab letters, ii eacouragc:4. 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 {219)283-8661 
Editorial Board 
Editor-in-Cbief..............................john McGrath 
Executive NewsEditor........................-Kelli Flint  Sports Editor ..............................Michael Onman  
News Editor..................................Tim Vercellotti News Editor............................. David Rickabaugh  Photo Editor........................................john Macor  
SMCExecutive Editor...........Mary Agnes Carey  Editorials Editor.......................Anthony Walton  
SMC News Editor......................Cathy Domanico  Features Editor .........................Gregory Swiercz  

Department Managers 
Business Manager .........................Rich Coppola Production Manager...................Michael Monk Controller.............................................joe Mulflur Circulation Manager .............Tom MacLennan Advertising Manager.......................Chris Owen Systems Manager ...........................Bruce Oakley 
Wednesday, December 9, 1981 -page 9

Classifieds 

NOTICES 
'I 
USED BOOK SHOP HOURS .• SAT, SUN 9·7 CASPERSUIII BUCHANAN RD .. NILES 
Watch for The Soc1ety for ~rc.-. . Anachronism nght attar Chnst'lld~ O• ,., . 
HUMAN RIGHTS DAY Dec 10 Sp~ ,. 
Nerrt Barnentos, former detalntte '" l t'!. 
Thur 7:30 Lob Lounge 
Gel your ObHrver Party locke!' :• 
Doane by Frodayl 
CONNECTICUT Bus sogn·up Wo . 
day.Decomber9.7pm atlatortu•.~-,. 
woll leave Salurday Decembeo 1~ 
round tnp For more 1nto. call Pete df 8.· 
Need rode to Oklahoma? Leave AM · o 
or 19th 1n 7 -passenger van tor r ulsd .~ 
Oklahoma Coty areas $25 00 Call 2; 
3293 
ATTENTION ALL ST LOUISANS 
Your St Louos Club IS hoslonq Chrostmas Break RIDER LINf ""' oi , need a rode or roders. c•ll Sharon at65,:, Good luck on your lonatsll 
LOST/FOUND 
LOST A 58-C Texas Instrument l.a culator about a week age maybe ,, tht Cell Boology Class II lound. please Ca• 6737 or return to 143 Farley Hall 
LOST. LADIES BROWN DEARSKr' GLOVES WITH RABBIT FUR LINING OLD AND MENOEQ..NO OUESTIOIII~ WILL BE ASKED-·288·9322 
LOST. NO CLASS RING. OUTS!Uc SENIOR BAR FRIDAY NIGHT NAMe INSIDE IF FOUND, PLEASE CALL PHIL PERKINS AT 8338 
LOST: Tl-58 CALCULATOR YOU CAN MISS IT: CRACKED DISPLAY oF FOUND PLEASE CALL 277-7794 MY CAREER AS AN ENGINEER DEPEN05 ON 
FOUND DETEX CARD IN THE OB SERVER OFFICE COME IN AND IOO:N TIFY NUMBERS. 
LOST: N D. CLASS RING. Tuesddy morn1ng m the 2nd floor men's room of 'nt: edmon. bldg. Quarter palladoum, greer. round-laced stone, S.G Moiler. 81· 82 engraved on onsode. My mother woll kill me ol I go home for Chrostmas wothout ot! II round, please save me by calling Steve~: 233-4381 or 232-5352 
LOST: GOLD IRISH CLADDAH RING 
o.e HEART, TWO HANDS AND CROWN ON IT 14KGOLD REWARD IFFOUNO PLEASE CALL 5265 SMC LAURA 
FOR RENT 
FOR NEXT SEMESTER HOUSE AND APARTMENTS 234·2626 
N D. Ave Apls has lurnoshed apos avaolable. Call234-6647 
NEED THIRD ROOMMATE STARTING NEXT SEMESTEA..·CASTLE POINT APARTMENTS, ONLY 120/month plus alec CALL LARRY OR MIKE AT 277. 3306 
Avaolable second semester, completely lurnoshed, comfortable house. close to campus, rooms lor 1 to 6 people $500 semesler plus utilotoes Call 288·3942 al· ler5:30. 
CLEAN 2-BEDAOOM MOBILE HOME FOR RENT, 2 MILES NORTH OF NO $270 PEA MONTH. LANDLORD PAYS ALL UTILITIES. 272·0116. 
ROOMMATE WANTED· completely fur noshed apt. ·kitchen. bar, cable. call Dave at 283-1169 
Share House: furnished. good neoghbor· hood $ t 00/mo & 113utol 287·0356 
WANTED 
Need rode to Cleveland for Xmas. Please call John at 8450 
TUTOR-part t1me-lor educ. center Re· QUires on-depth knowledge ol college level Boology. Chern, and Physocs Seekong graduate student woth teachong exp tor weekend classes begonmng mod·Jan thru Aprol Call 232·2368 bet t 0·4 
R1de needed to Pittsburgh/Wheeling area for Chroslmas Can leave Tuesday noghl or Wednesday Call Scott at 693t 
Need rode to ATLANTA for Chrostmas Can leave Wednesday afternoon Call Dave at6931 I need a rode to and from the Philadelphoa· Allentown, PA-South Jersey-Delaware (you get the odea) area for Chrostmas break I can leave Thursday noghl. December 17, around 6:15p.m. and can share expenses. Call Tim at 1536. 
Need a rode to and from Northern N.J for Chrostmas break. Aoght off Route 80 Can leave Saturday mornong. Call Moke 1181 
FOURTH FEMALE AOOMMATE NEEDED FOR TWO BEDROOM CAMPUS VIEW AAPAATMENT CALL 272-1661 
TWO ROOMMATES NEEDED FOR HOUSE ON NOTRE DAME AVENUE CALL 232·6301 
Rode needed to and from OMAHA for Xmas break Can leave anyttme, wtll share usual Call Kammoe 288-t 306 
DESPERATELY NEED AIDE TO NEW YORK CITY OR LONG ISLAND CALL JOHN AT t089ANYTIME. 
Rode needed to and from Tampa. Flonda tor Chnstrnas Will share expenses and drov1ng. Help Please TONY 3079 or 3070. 
Need nde to New York State. Syracuse · Watertown are•. Share usual Can leave 12/t 7 or possibly 12/15. Call Pat at 6742 
HOUSEMATE WANTED· OWN ROOM· 100/MO & UTIL CALL 289-5964 AFTER 5PM 
NEED RIDE TO ARLINGTON, VA WILL SHARE EXPENSES. PL CALL NIMMIE 2876234 
NEED RIDERS west on 1-80 to SAN FRANCISCO for X-MAS. Call Boll-3160 
2 ndes needed to long osland for xmas 
call Mary Beth at 4543 (SMC) 
Rode neede to MINNEAPOLIS for Christmas break. Woll share usual. Bear 233·2912 
Need AIDE to ST. LOUIS-Can leave FRIDAY AM-Call Susan 7884 
BUFFALONIANS! I need a nde to Buffalo tor XMAS. woll share usuals. Can leave late Fnday afternoon. Call Troy at 4478. 
Need ride to and from ATLANTA for Xmas break Can leave EARLY on DEC. 15 or later. Woll share usual. Call Cathy at 4·1 4424. 
Need rode to BOSTON and area north 
leavong Froday afternoon before break Call Mark 3403 
WANTED: AIDE TO EAST PA ON I 80 FOR XMAS CALL 1820. 
WILL PAY $65 ROUNDTRIP TO CENTRAL NY XMAS BREAK BARRY 287-9664. 
need a ride to CLEVELAND for xmass call Oennos 3452. 
NEEDEDIIIRIDE TO BALTIMORE AREA FOR XMAS BREAK-CAN LEAVE THURSDAY! WILL SHARE ALL COSTS etc, CALL Dave 323·3181 
I NEED A AIDE TO NORTH JERSEY (MORRISTOWN). CAN LEAVE DEC. 15 OR AFTER. PLEASE CALL KATE AT 2897. 
PILADELPHIAIII That's where I gona be! Or at least closel Call Moke at 1386 PLEASE I 
TEXANS I need art ode to north central Texas for Xmas. Any poonts between Okla. Coty and Dallas will do. Call Robert (3306) 
Need a R1de to Syracuse. Bmg area Anytime after Thursday 17th. Will pay the usual. Call Meg at 6926. 
10 Need rode to north Jersey (roght off I· 
80) Will share usuals. Can leave Thursday noght 12/t7. Call Tom at 2t87. 
Need rode to D.C.. Vorgonoa area for Christmas break. Can leave Froday eve· ning. Please call Henry at t 132. 
STORAGE WANTED: I need to rent a garage or parktng space for car over wtn· ter. Must be a sheltered space. Call Jack Keotel at 6986 before 16 Dec 81 . 
I need a rode to and from Long Island, NY Can leave late-afternoon of Dec. 18-CALL CHUCK at 8920 Thanks I 
Need rode to and from ATLANTA for XMAS break.Can leave only after Dec 18.Return on Jan 2.Will share usual. Call Mocky at 288-0076 
AIDE WANTED TO NORTHERN NEW JERSEY (AT. 80) ON FRI. 12118 WILL SHARE USUAL, CALL JACK 277-1185 
NEED RIDERS to Terre Haute, IN . Fro .. Dec. 18th. Call Joe t 697 
Lookong for three festoval or lower arena lockets to the Foreogner rock concert. Dec. 
13. Woll make an offer. Thos os a must. Please call Kevon, anylome at 291·0008 or 291-3177 
need a nde to and tram COLUMBUS,OH. Can leave afternoon of Dec 18 · Call Bryan at 8853 
AIDE NEEDED FOR CHRISTMAS BREAK TO EITHER NEW YORK CITY, PHILADELPHIA OR BALTIMORE­WASHINGTON, D.C. AREA. CAN LEAVE DECEMBER 19. CALL WILL HARE AT 8635. WILL SHARE USUAL 

FOR SALE 
SURPLUS JEEPS. CARS. TRUCKS. Car-onv. value $2143 sold for $100. For tnformatton on purchasmg stmtlar bar­gaons. call 602-941·80t4, ext. 3648 Phone call refundable 
Have 3 basketball locket packages for sale Lower arena. Best ofoffer. Sell on­dlvodually or together. Call Moke or Ted at 1181 
SURPLUS JEEP Value $3 t 96. sold for $44. Call312-742-1143 ext 7316 for onto. on how to purchase bargams hke th1sl 
FOR SALE. 75 wan stereo receover woth equalizer. tape deck. and paor of speakers Call Cecol Rucker al 8223 
Sony STRV45 Dogotal Receover. 40 WPC. 275/offer. Call Kammoe, 288-t 306 
-STEREO EQUIPMENT GREAT STU· DENT DEALS ON SONY W M · BOSE· JVC-H K.·NIKKO-MOST MAJOR BRANDS AT HOLIDAY PAICESI BOSE 30t'S $225! MUCH MOREl CALL JB AT 8228 or8232 
1974 TOYOTA COROLLA Must Sell $900 or best offer Call Broan 8928. 
ROE FOR SALE. UNITED AIRLINE TICKET FROM LOS ANGELES TO SOUTH BEND ON JAN. 11. ONLY $t60! CALL FRANCES AT 283·4233 
TICKETS 
STUDENT B·BALL TIX. BOTH PACKAGES. CHEAP 277-5329 
PERSONALS 
Experoenced typist .. reasonable Mrs. Bedford 288·2107 Hours BAM to 5PM 
ALL THAT JAZZ 
Two Notre Doime Jazz Bands will 
preunt a concert In Waehlngton Hall 
tomorrow 1118 p.m.: 
Jazz big band from the Swing, Bop 
and Rock perloda by the "Tueeday 
Night Jazz Band" under Marahall 
Scott'a direction. 
The "Monday Night Jazz Band" 
directed by Fr. George Wlaklrchen will 
feature mualc by Beale, Ellington, 
Horace Silver and Charlie Mingus. 
Sololata will Include vocallat Cathy 
Brealln, gultarlat Paul Bertolini, planlat 
Paul Koaldowakl, trumpeter• Marahall 
Scott, Eric GHrtner and Reggie Baln, 
along with Alto aaxophonlat Kurt 
Pfotenheuer and.trombonlat Michael 
Greene. 
NO ADMISSION CHARGE tor thla 
mlni-hlatoYy of bl~t-band jazz 
preHnted by aome 40 NO atudent 
mualclana. 
DearC.J., 
Even though you are white and don't 
play basketball, I still like you. You can 
call me silly, you can call me stupod, you 
can call me wacko -but don't call me 
Jom. I know, I promised no personals. 
but they needed one to fill up space ­
really I Isn't it nice to know that I think of 
you at 4:30 on the morning? • 
Who Else? 

Where is sanity when we need it? 
Where is anybody woth hos or her head on 
straoght at 4 o'clock in the mornong? In ~ed 
asleep, that's wherel And that's where I 
wish I were. 
FDA 

(Well, I've met a couple of exceptions ...) 
And the Restless Shade os on a stampede 
tonoght for there are none to restraon him 
at such a ludocrous hon the cartoon hero 
sandwtch. For there are no rules in Free 
Associatoon Football and he plays ot damn 
bursting overflowong onto the well of souls 
tn Catro, which for those ol you who have 
forgotten your geography -whoch I 
assume can't be many, because how can 
anyone who has forgotten geography fond 
hos way to South Bend (he asked fairly, 
but rhetorocally)? -is in Egypt. And 
Egypt Sphinx as we all know, yessir. 
(Arafal, I'm told.) Just another senseless 
waste of human lite. but if we remember 
the waste of Pearl Harbor. ot's eas1er to 
forget Hiroshoma, where the sun came to 
Earth shrouded on a mushroom cloud-of 
death (OK. so I stole the words from a 
song I heard once when I could still 
pretend to care, though now I've learned 
to love on the real world where real people 
come along once in a great while and 
usually leave 1ust when you get used to 
havong them around). And some ol us can 
still remember the days when Moose 
Control was on his Debell an Sector and we 
all laughed to h1de our fears. Too late we 
learn that ot os not the laughter that con­
Quers fears; it is the tears. And those who 
cry gtve me the courage to conquer. 
Hey Pal-An early Merry Chrostmas. 
Thanx Ed, Cheryl, Tim and Paul 
Sandy and Lisa are always ready forthat. TYPING DONE ON CAMPUS BY 
PROFESSIONAL SECRETARY. LOW 
RATES, QUICK SERVICE. CALL X· 
1315. • 
NIGHTSOUNOS 105 FM 10:30 P.M 
Gene Wilder and Donald Sutherland in START THE REVOLUTION WITHOUT ME" 8, 9 Dec 7, 9, 11 pm on Eg Aud What a pleasure to laugh!" 
ATTENTION MOLARITY FANS 
If you mossed ot the f1rst tome, Mochael 
Mohnello' s forst book. On the Road to Sell­
Ing Out, os now avaolable on an oncredoble 
FOURTH pnntong, and can be purchased 
at the Notre Dame bookstore. Also st1ll 
avaolable os the most recent Molaroty 
release. Don't Make a Right, another ex­
traordinary Jun1per Press publtcat1on 
Both books make a great Chrostmas goft, 
and are only $2.95 Get them now. before 
they re all GONEIIIIII 
SAY HAPPY HOLIDAYS AND SHOW HER THAT YOU CARE WITH A BOU· OUET OF FLOWERS DELIVERED EACH WEDNESDAY FOR 4 WEEKS. (WE CAN BREAK' FOR XMAS BREAK OR WILL DEUVEA IF YOUR LADY IS STAYING ON CAMPUS/ IN TOWN WEDNESDAYS FLOWERS 289 1211 
Here are the answers to today's tnv1a 
qutz. which can be found on the Features 
pages 
1. Whole Chrostmas by Bong Crosby and Rudolph the Red-Nosed Reondeer by Gene Autry. respectovely. 
2 Bobby Helms 
3 · Jongle Bells· by the Songong Dogs 
4 The Star Carol' 5. Charles Brown 
6 The Chnstmas Song (Merry 
Chnstmas to You)' 
7. The curre~t totle os Phil Spector's Christmas Album 
8 Wonderful Chrostmastlme· 
9. a. Happy Xmas (War Is Over)· b Run Rudolph Run· c.· I Behave on Father Chrostmas 
d. 
Chrostmas Song" 

e. 
Santa Claus Is Comong to Town· 


10. a. Guy Lombardo 
b. 
Bobby Oaron 

c. 
Dan Fogelberg 


Hoo schker-dou.. 
Rock and Rollers 
I need two lockets to the Foreigner con· 
cert. Call Tom "Rock and Roll· Drouol· 
lard at 1073 if you can help. 
ACC Caterong Servoce needs 20 men to work thos Thursday noght from 6 to 11 pm for the football banquet. If onterested. call Jeff at 3323. $3.50/hr. 
ATTENTION· ATTENTION 
The v1ce prez ol the H•Man Woman 
Hatera Club has made il clear that 
contr I ary to popular belief, the ratio of 
men to women at NO is not unbalanced. 
Pound for pound they are close to our 
numbers." He is also offering ·HMWHC· 
Starter Kots lor onterested dorms. Just ask 
around, he says: Our underground will 
get in touch with you .. · 
DETAOITERS 
SEATS STILL AVAILABLE FOR XMAS 
BUS ROUND TRIP $23 CALL 8122 OR 8405 TO RESERVE A SPOT WEDS LAST DAY TO SIGNUP 
Indiana Bell would like to thank ots most profitable customer, Tom Melsheomer, for another semester of record-breakong phone bills. The Bell System looks for­ward to servtng Tom next semester wh1le he os studyong on London. 
Handwrollng analyzed by Johns Hopkons grad. For best results. several paragrap· phs on unlined paper, but anythong OK $5. John Young. 1902 Claudoa Circle, Val· dosta, GA31601. 
LOS ANGELES II RIDERS NEEDED TO LA AND/OR BACK FOR XMAS. WILL LEAVE THUAS DEC. 17. CALL DAVE -1786 
ATTENZIONEI BUONA NATALE TO ALL FOOD MAG­NETS AND BARRETT BOYS. SIGNED N/A 
JEFF NOVOTNY DONT DIE OF THE 
SUES. LOVE, BRADLEY 
CONGRATULATIONS !!!!!!!I! 
The charter meetong of the I HATE IN· 
DIANA" CLUB was a rousmg success!! A 
total of 11,345 hoosoer·haters turned out! 
If you mossed the meetong and still want to 
lOin, or of you made the meeting but forgot 
to pock up your certoficate, send $1.00 to 
522 Grace to recoeve your own officoal I 
HATE INDIANA" club certificate!! 
OBSERVER PARTY THIS SATURDAY. FORGET ABOUT FINALS WITH THIS PRE-CHRISTMAS BASH. GET YOUR TICKETS FROM DIANE. 
Dl•ne is Shirley'a ~ew replacement. She has all the lockets to the Oburver Party this Saturday. so. slop up and say hello when you pick up your tickets to thos gala event (to ,be covered on the People· sec· loon of both TIME and Newaweek magazones) 
NEED TYPING DONE? Will accept typong of any kond..50 per page, .25 per footnote 24-hour servoce. Call Randy 7735 
CHRISTMAS CRAFTS SALE to benefot Sr. Maroa's Promary Day School to be heheld in the Memorial Library on Thurs.· Fro. Dec. 10-11 from IOa.m. to 10 p.m Pottery, plants. X·.ltas cards, lmllted Items, elc. Sponsored IH partbylbesopb­o•o,.e class. 
NEED AIDE TO PITT. EARLY NEXT 
WEEK DEC 14 OR 15 5391 SMC PITTSBURGH CHRISTMAS BUS .. There are stoll a limited number number of seats avaolable for the Saturday Bus. If on­terested call Broan Eichenlaub at 1581 before 12:00 midnoght. RESERVATIONS WILL BE ON A FIRST CALL FIRST 
SERVE BASIS. 
CONNECTICUT BUS SIGN UP The Connecticut club woll be runnong a bus to Fa1rfoeld and Hartford, leavong NO on Saturday.December 19. Round trop cost woll be $85. Sogn-up woll be at 7 p.m. Wed· nesday. For more onto call Pete at 8311 
Dear handsome. good look1ng, and AWESOME, Are you happy? I am.l xo 
P.S. Good luck on your new JOb as student 
She must be koddong! 
The System 
grey gargoyles gronnmg old owls openong oranges overweoght octopo on oldsmoboles downtrodden dwellers dance desperately ntce netces name ntn1as tgnored tgloos tgnlte good gruesome goblins grow graceful h1gh holls hover haltongly tall trees tremble tonoght 
the Torea Poet (at 90 degrees) 
GOODNIGHT 
Hey. How many all rughters does ol take to do a HEAT TRANSFER PROJECT? 
Well Wade Woldock. Moke Caylor. Moke Green. Bob. Aleoda Ham. Patly Faughnan. Karen Al1g. Dr tloyd and Vocko Green know who the record holders are !It Thank you all · 
Joule( y) yours. 
S&M 
WILL PAl' BIG • FOR lV'U FOR· EIGNER TIX.. CaU DOUG al6166. 
Like flies to wanton boys are we to the gods. they koll us tor theor sport --·-The Socoety lor the Advancement ol Shakespeare. 
Georgia Boundfll I need riders to Savannah or Mecon or Atlanta or any po1nt in between Only goong down. no rode back Leave on Thursday noght or Froday Lets go down 
south where we belong! Call Boll at x8683. (That's 12/17or 12/18.) 
Hey Grot, 
Willy has arnved and he wants a home where he wt\1 be loved! How about tt? What do ya say koddo? 
Love ya Bubba 
DEAAHMWHC Our non-female constituents are obvious· ly as socoally lomoted as theor wardrobes.II we ate ice cream as often as you wear your '69 vontage Nokes, we probably would be fatl ...but bo.ys woll be boys. 
The Domer De-Loghter· Than· You-Are 
Moke, lUst one more empty promose. Where was the key anyways? Used and abused. 
Another bortng lecture ptture? Who htres the photographers anyways? Especoally Rudy, no omagonation what-so·everl A frustrated desogn assoslant. John B. If you mess around woth ANY of our clocks, we woll KILL you! 
Love, Your Su1temates. 
Please protect the future generatoons of Grace Hall. Remove those pa1nful shower heeda 
Complements of 9-C Grace Hall 
To Pasqueril/a East, Farley, and our 
favorite B. P. girls, We hope you all enjoyed our Christmas caroling this weekend. We know that the rector at B. P. did. Thanks lor putting up with us. 
Love The Christmas Carolers of9·CGrace 
Beware of the frat brats I Kappa EpaUon Gamma 
Yes Kathy and Becky. We do know where your room osl AI, Dan, Ron, and Todd 
Come vial! our frat houae. WE AREclap, clap KAPPA EPSILON GAMMA 
Lady D1 Why are you so shy? PC 
HeyCassoe Don·t you ever sleep? 
Guess Who? 
John B. Get a REAL dusk cover, THROAT Love. You Know 
Little red-headed girl, Somet1mes you wonder what happens to 
love. sometimes the touch ol enough  a fnend Tropper  Is  
Dear Charlie Brown,  

Have yourself a merry lottie Chrostmas, even wothout me. I'll moss you more than you know. You're the best graduation present I could have asked tor. EntOY the snow and the springtome, and wrote lots ol letters. My milllman gets lonely! 
The Lottie Redheaded Gorl You Bfocksl You Stonesl You Worse Than Senseless Thongs I -·--JULIUS CAESEA. (SAS) 
dear st JOSeph's hospital and staff. stuff 11 1 at least you're smart enough to take down the offending sogn for me. thanx agaon, kods. 
a concerned tnend 
• Matthew-You're PERFECT for a person like me and I love youl P.S I moss lhe bonJo'sf 
WADE-TONS congratsl You·ll NEVER cease to amaze mel Happy swommong· · Lisa 
Smokon· Joe Mannell-? 
I trust You, I thonk Anyway I'm goong to gove you a week off from your J&nitoroal dut1es You can go down to my CADIL· LAC RANCH and relax lggy. M1ss Physocs. and Shelly are already there 
HAVE FUNII PREz... 
ATTENTION GIRLS: Lookong for that specoal goff for your room-mate? Call Art Hung loke a Horse· Jackman·s Stud 
Serv1ce at 2140 
Congratulations Marc C. D 0 S on your acceptance! You certatnly deserve 1t. Woth love. Your proud s1ster 
Aug 8 and Feb 28 
I don·l know how to thank you enough for what you dtel for me last Wednesday Your kondness really made ot an excep· toonal day for me 
Dec 2 
P.S The margarotas are on mel 
Rachel. 
Well. Magoo, you ve done 11 aga1nl Congra1s on another clutch last-second photo I always knew you were good (and you take good poctures. too!). 
P.S G1ve lhat gorl a Pona Colada! (How about Froday noght, after studyong?) 
To Denose. Lauren, Sharo, Brodgel, Shan· non, Kelly, Sue, Sue and everyone else who has been so kond to me these pasl months. Thanks for makong my forst semester at SMC as paonless as poSSible. Londy 
SUSANH •• Thanks lor feedong my ego ow wrU sm. nlgbt. Bill ,.e,.e•lw,.... DYNA.tllTII co•e~ '" 5maUpucllages. .Ita'*L. 
................................................................ 
JLK -of you only knew what I'm goong through. Yours on Yates, Fun Donners· 
RYAN· Hope ~ou come back so ~-~~n .tell you all about Californoa Love. Shori'!Y 
Senoor F~;;;,~j i982 need;·~ theme. Any suggestoons call: Losa 1992 Moke 1369 Nono (SMC) 4626 Kathleen 277-2207 
K of C CHRISTMAS PARTY FRIDAY NIGHT AT 9 ..BREAK THE FINALS TENSION 
SKID ROW Put away your blades after Fnday mormng's shave. The sem1-annual Skod Row scuzz lestoval begons then, to contmue until finals are over. Nobody shaves, not even Jamoe.(Aithough noone woll be able to tell the difference.) 
JH­IWYB -FS 
Johnny sends hos love to the bear Keep smohng 
MARK MAl. HAPPY 21ST BIRTHDAY 
I HAVE ONE THING LEFT TO SAY TO MY FRIENDS AT THE OBSERVER: RICH COPPOLA · Clean your desk. JOE MULFLT UA ·Show Rich how to clean hos desk MARK ELUS · Get a jOb. TOM MACLENNAN · Send me an OB­SERVER JOHN MCGRATH · Whole you're at K­Mart. MIKE OATMAN · Keep the mask on DIANE · Get a rea11ob. PAUL MCGINN· How were the Stones? CHRIS OWEN · Hope thos class1hed doesn't get lost JOHN MACOR · Goodbye to THE OB· SEAVERS overexposed flasher. BRUCE · Roast beef 1n June? BILL MARQUARD· Dod the football team really lose because Craog and I were at the games? 
SKIP DESJARDIN· See you at Pauley Pav11ton DAVE DZIEDZIC · I woll get an address 
soon ED KONAAOY · No show at the best party ever MEUNDA MOORE · II YOU ever need any help, let me know MARY AGNES CAREY · Remember, thongs happen for a reason TONY WALTON· Tuesdays and Frodays are donut days GREG SWIERCZ · Does your lOb really gove you a pane in the glass? 
LEFTY MULLANEY-How 'bout yourself? Keep in touch. DAVE RICKABAUGH· Shave. TIM VERCELLOTTI-Don't get los11n the London log. AMY KIZER· Take the summer off. MARGARET UNHART · Lunch agaon · the four ot us? RYAN VER BERKMOES · Moooooool 
I love every one of the above and the red carpet woll be laod out for you of you should ever find yourself on San Doego 
See you agaon soon. Shorley 
Shirley, you lorgot meII Or am I not one of your fro ends?-TIM NEELY 
:I 
,., 
-:1 

The Observer Wednesday, December 9, 1981 -page 10 

Albwnsa 
Casselles 
6.44
PICTURED ITEMS ONLY. 
THE STEVE MILLER BAND Circle Of Love 
featuring Heart like A Wheel · Get On Home · Baby Wanna Dance · Circle Of Love · Macho City 
~­



L.._______________________________ ­



II\· Tbe ( J/Jsert'!'l" and lbe A.s.Wci{l/etl Press 
The NVA Office reminds all intramural basketball players that they must have their insurance forms filed in the NVA Office ( C-2 ACC) by S p.m. the day oftheir first game. All players also must remember to bring their ID's tot the first-round games. -The Observer 
lnterhall basketball gatneslisted in yesterday's 
edition of The Obs<'TI'er for tomorrow night, were incorrectly schedull'l.l for the ACC. All intcrhall games scheduled for tomorrow c.:vcuing will be played at the published times, but in the Stepan Cen­tc.·r. -The Observer 
A ski trip is being organized by the Student Unio~l open to all Notre.· Dame.: stlllknts. Although the trip is scheduled tor March I:"· ll) (Spring Break), an organizational meeting is scheduled for tomorrow at 7 p.m. in a room otr the LaFortune Ballroom. A short film on the Summit County ski areas will be shown. Because ofspace limitations an initial deposit of $2S is required by Wednesday, Dec. 
16. -The Obsen'<'T 
A limited number of individual game tickets remain available for ti>Ur games on the 1981-'82 Notre uame home basket­hall schedule. Tickets arc on sale at Gate I 0 of the ACC for the Val­paraiso (Dec. 21 ), Davidson (Jan. 16), Maine (Jan. 27) and Northern Iowa (Mar. 2) contests. There is no limit to the number of tickets an Individual may purchase. All tickets are bleacher seats at fi4. 50 each. 
Reggiejackson and Atlanta Braves owner Ted -The Observer. 
Turner share a laugh overtheir negotiations. Tur-
A ticket lottery for students wishing to attend the Vir­ginia, LaSalle or Missouri basketball games over Christmas break, will be conducted this week. Registration for the lottery of 200 tickets 
per game will take place at the Student Union box office on the first 
continuedfrom page I3 
tloor ofthe LaFortune Student Center and concludes today. Winners program, I don't think it really fits in­will be posted on the bulletin board outside the Student Activities 
to either team's goals."
Office tomorrow. Winnc.·rs must pick up their tickets tomorrow or Although the Irish have Friday. The limit is two tickets per student, and a student only may 
dominated the series 8-0, both
present one lD when registering. The Missouri game is scheduled for teams agree that a mutual respectSaturday, jan. 2 at Kansas City's Kemper Arena at 8 p.m. The LaSalle 
has developed from the rivalry. "It's
contest will be played in Philadelphia's Palestra, Monday, Jan. 4 at 9 a natural rivalry because we're rightp.m., and Virginia will face the Irish Wednesday, jan. 6 at 9 p.m. at the 
across the street," said Sitlington.
Capital Centre in Landover, Md. -The Observer "It's also a good, hard fought battle." 
"After playing for eight years, I think a mutual · respect has developed between the two teams,"
Bill Gleason, sports columnist for the Chicago Sun­added Conboy.
Times, will be the master of ceremonies tomorrow night at Notre Whether the series continues or
Dame's annual football banquet honoring Coach Gerry Faust and his not depends on several factors. Aplayers. Reservations (at S18) for the 7 p.m. dinner in the ACC may 
major one is the schedule adjust­be made by calling Rich Sherman at either 282-2392 or 272-5887. ­ments made by both teams. Each
The Observer 
team has to allow room on its schedule for opponents within its own division. Ifthis shift in schedul­ing causes a conflict between the 
The WOmen'S golfteatn of Notre Dame ~n_d Saint ND-SMC series, it is likely that the Mary's will meet tomorrow at 6:30 p.m. in the Brecn-Phtlhps 24-game will be dropped entirely. hour lounge (in the basement). All interested in competing in the spring should attend. For more information, contact Mary Beth Hes­lin ( 1279) orJim Rogers ( 3234)-The Observer 
Items 

Strength development and conditioning and its 
continuedfrom page 16
rdation to all sports will he the subjject of the tlrst Notre Dame Strc.·ngth and Conditioning Clinic scheduled for Friday and Saturday, KEEPING YOUR WITS ABOUT l>ecembc.·r I I and 12 at the University of Notre Dame. Registration YOU -Despite the losses the bas­begins at -l p.m. Friday in the auxiliary gymnasium ofthe Athletic and ketball team has suffered thus far, Convocation Center. For further information call Bill Alkrheiligen Digger Phelps has still managed to or Gary Wei! at 778'l. -Tbe Obsen,er maintain his sense of humor. Wit­
ness these quotes during a press 

conference after the UCLA game: About the.: tln·-gamc Christmas road trip: 
"One thing about the.: road trip ­they're at least great cities. \X't·'ll sho-w up for the games and just get the best we can out of it." 
To rc.·porters as he wound up the.: short prc~s conference: 
"Thank you, this is probably the largest press conference.: I'll be at this year (with tongue in check) ...I'm glad it was quick ...Have a nice New Year (breaking into a chuckle) ...we'll see you next year when we have 
Kentucky, Indiana and UCLA in the 
same week ..." 

Digger Phelps will have to regroup his squad and develop a new game plan before the lrisb meet Northern Illinois this Saturday at the ACC. (photo by Rachel Blount) 
"We know that conflicts in the schedules exist, but we hope that they can be worked out," stated SMC junior guard Mary Bayless. 
"I don't think that the series will end, the coaches want to keep it on the schedule," added Conboy. 
_,...__...,._....... DB ·~ ('(' o'{ -:.:-"'l'~""l :'k ~ ~ ']:\h 
,,,,,,., 1l ....~~ ,, ..... ~ ;~·•·.M ~-~'·"' .dlhm;,; ..,,,¥,~Miia..J'-•"*"". 
Yesterday's Results Notre Dame 92, Saint Mary's 29 Saint Mary's (29) 
M  FG-A  FT-A  R  F  p  
Sllhngton  19  1-4  0-0  3  1  2  
VanOrt  23  1-5  0-1  5  3  2  
Sch1rz  25  2-6  0-0  6  3  4  
Armstrong  28  2-7  0-0  1  2  4  
Bayless  8  0-0  0-0  0  0  0  
Murphy  22  1-3  4-4  0  0  6  
McG1nms  10  1-1  0-0  1  0  2  
Short  8  0-3  0-0  0  0  0  
Ayotte  9  0-0  0-0  0  0  0  
Meyer  20  0-2  0-1  2  2  0  
Nolan  10  1-3  0-1  2  2  
Suess  18  1-2  5-6  2  7  
200 10-36  9-13  22  13  29  
FG  Pet  278 FT  Pet  692 Team  
rebounds -25. Turnovers  -43  ASSISts  -4  

(S1thngton. Murphy 2 each) T echn1cals ­None Notre Dame (92) M FG·A FT-A R F 
p Ka1ser 20 7-10 2-2 1 0 16 Schueth 17 5-6 1-5 7 1 11 Bates 21 1-2 0-0 5 2 2 
Hensley 18 2-6 1·2 5 5 Mullrns 20 0-7 0-0 4 0 Monagle 19 2-5 0-0 1 0 4 Nev1lle 10 3-4 0·0 0 1 6 Conboy 15 2-5 0-0 1 2 4 Matvey 23 9-16 0-0 13 2 18 Dougherty 13 6-8 2-2 1 2 14 Crowe 24 5·8 2-2 8 2 12 200 42-77 8-13 39 21 92 
FG Pet 545 FT Pet. 615. Team rebounds -41 Turnovers · 11 Ass1s1s · 25 (Hensley 5. Katser 4) Techmeals-None 
Halftime -Notre Dame 40 Saont Marys 12 
J~~;;~:::-c-;~;1~;G7s;:~
ISeniors, don't let jobs pass by. Have I 
I you registered with CPR? ~ 
I Call toll-free 1-800-368-3093 1 I for details. I 
'-_;---~-------~~' 
• • • Series 
We'll have to wait to see wheth • or not the series will be continued, last night's Irish romp notwithstand­ing. But as far as the coaches and players are concerned, the rivalry has been an intense matchhup for eight years, and they hope to sec it continue. 
NBA  
E•atern Conference  
Atlentlc Dlvlalon  
w  L  Pet.  GB  
Pholadelphoa Boston  15 15  3 4  .833 789  .5  .  
New York  9  9  .500  6  
Washonglon  6  12  333  9  
New Jersey  5  13  278  10  
Centrel Dlvlalon  
Mol waukee lndoana  12 10  6 9  667 I;~  :.,J  
Allanla  p  ~  .471  3.5  
Detroit  8  11  .421  4.5  
Chocago  8  12  400  5  
Cleveland  4  14  222  8  
Weatern Conference  
Mldweat Dlvlalon  
w  L  Pet.  GB  
San Anlonoo  13  5  722  
Denver  8  10  444  5  
Utah  8  11  .421  5.5  
Houston  7  13  .350  7  
Kansas City  6  12  353  6.5  
Dallas  4  15  .211  9.5  
Paclllc Dlvlelon  
Los Angeles  16  6  .727  
PhoemK  11  6  .647  2.5  
Portland  12  7  632  2.5  
Golden State  11  7  611  3  
Seanle  10  588  3  
San Doego  6  12  333  8  
Yeaterday'a Reaulta  
New York 135, Denver 122  
New Jersey 98, Atlanta 88  
Chocago 118, lndoana 116, OT  
Dallas 128. Utah 103  
Seallle 107. Houston 96  
Los Angeles 102. Washongton 98  
Golden Slate 122. Portland 108  
San Doego 121. Phoenox 110  

NOW 
0~ ~ 

TO ••• 
O'HARE-MIDWAY 
SPECIAL . 

. TRIPS DAILY
6 
Ask Your Travel Agent For The Big Bus To O'Hare 
Or Call 234-3108 
.Indiana Motor Bu$ 

J 
The Observer-Sports 

Rookie Marc Wilson and the world champion OaklandRaiders are scramblingfor a position in the post-season playoffs. See tbe story below. (AP Photo) 
ToAFC 
Steelers lend a helping hand 
By BRUCE LOWITI 
Associated Press 
The Pittsburgh Steelers, by losing Monday night at Oakland, helpe just about everyone but themselves in the American Football Conference's scramble for playoff ber t ths. 
The Steelers could have a 9-5 record, and would have trailed first­place Cincinnati by one game in the AFC central Division. 
But Oakland beat Pittsburgh 30­27, and: 
It enabled the Bengals, 10-4, to stay two games up on Pittsburgh. Cu.: more victory by Cincinnati (or one more loss by Pittsburgh) will give the Bengals the division title. 
It left the Steelers with an 8-6 record, tied with the Kansas City Chiefs and San Diego Chargers, and one game behind the 9-5 Denver Broncos in the AFC west, and half a game behind the 8-5-1 New York 
Jets, one game behind the 9-5 Buf­N.Y. Jets (at Cleveland; Green falo Bills and 1.5 games behind the Bay) clinch if they win their remai­9-4-1 Miami Dolphins in the AFC ing games and Miami and Buffalo east. lose one apiece. If they win their remaining two, they're assured of at 
It kept alive the Raiders' hopes of least a wild card spot. reaching the playoffs. Oakland is 7-7 and within striking distance of the second AFC wild card berth, al­/Cincinnati (at Pittsburgh; at At­though it will take a near-miracle for lanta) clinches with a victory of its them to get it. own or a loss by the Steelers. 
The weekend's action eliminated · Pittsburgh (Cincinnati; at Hous­two more AFC playoff contenders -ton) clinches only if it wins its two Houston, 6-8, and Cleveland, 5-9. games and the Bengals lose their They joined Baltimore, 1-13, New two. The teams would finish tied at England, 2-12, and Seattle, 5·9, on 10-6 and the Steelers would get the the sidelines. title based on a better division 
Here is a look at what each AFC team has to do to win a division title 
/Denver (Seattle; at Chicago)(remaining games in parentheses): clinches by sweeping its final two games. 

Miami (at Kansas City; Buffalo) clinches by sweeping its final two or winning one, while the Jets and Bills Kansas City (Miami; at Min­lose one each. Buffalo (at New nesota) clinches by sweeping its England; at Miami) clinches by two games, while Denver and San sweeping its final two games. Diego lose one apiece. 
Gene still out 
Lemon rehired by Yanks 
HOLLYWOOD, Fla. (AP) -Bob Lemon will remain as manager ofthe New York Yankees in 1982, the 
American  League club announced  
yesterday  at  baseball's  winter  
meetings.  

Bill Bergesch, vice president of baseball operations for the Yankees, said that Lemon "would hopefully remain with the organization for the remainder ofhis baseball career." 
Lemon previously served parts of the 1978, 1979 and 1981 seasons as Yankee manager. He took over for Gene Michael on Sept. 6. 
Despite reports from a source close to the Yankees that Michael would become manager again, Lemon was rehired. He said he would stay on for one more season as manager. 
The speculation that Lemon would be gone developed after the Yankees lost the World Series this fall in six games to the Los Angeles Dodgers. 
Bergesch said Lemon was resigned following a lengthy meeting Monday with Yankees offi­cials in Tampa, Fla., the home ofclub owner George Steinbrenner. During his years as Yankees manager, Lemon led the team to two pennants ( 1978, 1981 ) and a world cham­pionship in 1978. The Yankees beat over the Yankees from Billy Martin a month later. 

New York was in fourth place 10 games out ofthe lead, but after drop­ping to 14 games behind, Lemon led the club to the world championship. 
He was named the Associated Press Manager oftheYear for that ac­complishment. Lemon as a player pitched for the Cleveland Indians where he posted a 207-128 record with a 3.23 earned run average in 13 years ( 1946-58). 


Gene Micheal 
Milwaukee in a five-game mmt­series to win the AL East division title and then swept the Oakland A's in three games to capture the American Leagtte championship. 
Lemon, 61, has managed three 
major league clubs. He managed the 
1 1cr~a-r-ttab"'YTo-;;:e;-,az;-1

Kansas City Royals to a second-place finish in 1971, the Royals' third in I I and Blues Band I the league, and finished fourth with 
I •---------------~

the Royals in 1970 and 72. Later, he I~Thursdav-Molson Nite Sl ;managed the Chicago White Sox in 
1 Friday-Christmas Party 2:00-7:00

1977 and part of 1978, leaving 
I -­

Chicago on June 29, 1978. He took 
L---·--X.2.U.JY-9.D:i.lU.Ill.lP-W~!.i!l. ___ 
Wednesday, December 9, 1981-page 12 
Dalla~, Tampa Bay ~~~ vtctory away 

By BRUCE LOWITI 
Associated Press 
The Dallas Cowboys, a wildcard playoff berth already assured, and the Tampa Bay Buccaneers can clinch division titles in the National Football Conference with victories 
Sunday. 
They would join San Francisco as NFC division champions, the 49ers having locked up the West title Nov. 29. 
Last weekend's action eliminated only one team from playoff conten­tion -the Los Angeles Rams. They lost to the New York Giants and fell to 5-9. They're out ofthe playoffs for the first time since 1972, the last time tey finished below . 500. 
The Rams joined the Chicago Bears and the New Orleans Saints, each 4-10, as the only NFC teams out ofthe running. 
Just two years ago, when the Rams won the NFC west and made it all the way to the Super Bowl (where they lost 31-19 to Pittsburgh), the 
Cowboys were the champions ofthe East and the Buccaneers celebrated their "worst-to-first" season won the Central Division. 
Dallas and Tampa Bay are just one victory away from winning those titles again. 
The Cowboys are 11-3 and two games ahead of Philadelphia, whom they beat 17-14 Nov. 1. They face the visiting Eagles Sunday. The Eagles still can win the East title, while the three other teams in the division -the New York Giants, St. 
Louis  Cardinals  (each  7-7)  and  
Washington Redskins (6-8)  - are  
only in wild-card contention.  

In the scrambled NFC Central, Tampa Bay is 8-6 and one game ahead of the Minnesota Vikings, Detroit Lions and Green Bay Pack­ers. 
The Los Angeles Rams will be watching theplayoffs on TV as they were eliminated from post-season play for the first time since 1975. See story above. (AP Photo) 
--,
I 
I 
In the West, Atlanta is 7-7 and clinging to wild-card hopes. 
Here is a look at what each NFC team has to do (and what help each needs) to win a division title (remaining games in parentheses): 
Dallas (Philadelphia; at New York Giants) clinches with a victory or a loss by Philadelphia. 
Philadelphia (at . Dallas; St. Louis) clinches by winning its remaining games, while Dallas loses its two. The Eagles and Cowboys would end up tied at 11-5 overall and 5-3 in division games. The Eagles would finish with a better NFC record, 8-4 to Dallas' 7-5. 
Tampa Bay (San Diego; at Detroit) clinches with one more vic­tory. A tie at the end of the season with any division contender would be broken in the Buccaneers' favor by virtue of a better conference record. The Bucs can do no worse than 8-4 to a possible 7-5 by Min­nesota and Detroit and a possible 6-8 by Green Bay. 
Minnesota (at Detroit; Kansas City) clinches by winning its two remaining games, while Tampa Bay loses once. 
Detroit (Minnesota; Tampa Bay) clinches by winning its two remain­ing games. 
Green Bay (at New Orleans; at New Yorkjets) clinches only ifall of the following occur: the Packers win their two games to finish 9-7, while Tampa Bay loses its two games against Detroit and San Diego, the Lions lose to Minnesota (and beat Tampa Bay) and the Vikings lose to Kansas City after beating the Lions. That would leave the Bucs, Lions and Vikings all at 8-8. 
Data 
!elecommunicaUons Trainees Beaded 
Now you can get paid while you train in this rapidly expanding field. Top notch instruction on 
the most sophisticated equipment. Excellent benefits include up 
to 30 days vacation annuallv.$15,200 to $20,100 available for college. call; SFC Hamilton 234-4187 
Army Be All You Can Be Equal Opportunity 

The Observer -Sports Wednesday, December 9, 1981 -page 13 
Will ND-SMC rivalry continue? 
By SARA ZAPPIA 
.\ports Writer 
When one thinks of great college rivalries, matchups that imml·diately coml· to mind arc Notre Dame­UCLA, Indiana-Purdue, and DePaui­Notrc Dame. Well, since women's hasketball just recently has come in­to its own on the Notre Dame-Saint Mary's campuses, we now can add ND-SMC to that list of intense rivalrks. 
Although the rivalry is a fairly new one, this year being only thl· eighth ml'l'ting hctwcen the two teams, the intensity is high. It's a game where won-loss records are put aside for 40 minutes. "Thl· spirit of tht: game is great," comments Mary DiStanislao, ND women's basketball coach. "Even though thl· two teams arc in dill'crl·nt divisions, it's the spirit of the game that makes it a challenge for hoth· teams. 
"There's already a rivalry hctween ND women and SMC women," she continues, "and what better way to express it than on the basketball court." 
The players also see it as a chal­lenge. "It's going to he a rl·ally tough game and a real challenge," said SMC junior guard Anne Armstrong before last night's game, "hut we're going to give it our best shot, ht:cause it may he our last chance." 
"The rivalry is strong and both teams are up for the game," added teammate Mary Pat Sitlington. 
With rumors that this year's meeting may he the last in the series, the players arc dctinitely in tavor of continuing the rivalry. "I like this game hccausl' it attracts a lot of peopk-," stated ND senior ti>rward Missy Conboy. "It's one of the more popular games of the year." 
teams' goals? "I think that the game has lost some signilicancc," stated Dallcsio. "When ND was still in Divi­sion Three, and when both were competing in the same state tourna­ment, the game was more important to each teams' record and pride -it was like proving who was the top kid on the block. Now, with the dif­ference in emphasis on each 
See SERIES, page 11 
Slaughter 
continuedfrompage 16 
Matvey, in addition to her 18 points, hauled in 13 rehounds to lead both squads. She now needs on­ly 25 rebounds to erase the all-time Irish mark held by jane Politiski. 
"Not starting didn't make that much difference in my play," said Matvey, a native of Youngstown, Ohio. "I didn't think about it really. I know she's still trying a lot of dif· ferent combinations, so all I'm con­cerned about is doing my job." 
After a Lisa Schirz bucket gave SMC an early 2-0 lead, Notre Dame went on a 23-2 tear that left the issue in little doubt at the midway point of the first half. 
The Irish defense held Saint 
Mary's without a point during one 
six-minute stretch in the first period, 
and during a nearly eight-minute 
stretch in the second. During those 
two spans, DiStanislao's club reeled 
off 3 7 unanswered points. 
Next up for the 2-1 Irish is a road 
date with Butler University tomor­
row. 

Saint Mary's will take its 3-3 record back across U.S. 31, and await tomorrow's home match against the Crusaders ofValparaiso. 
Dallcssio's club will then take on Lake Forest Friday in the Angela Ath­letic facility. 
IRISH ITEMS -Last night's win was Notre Dame's tenth in as many tries in this series that dates back to 
1977, the first year women played basketball on a varsity level under the Dome ... For the game, Saint Mary's shot .278 from the tloor, as opposed to Notre Dame's .545 ... Through three games, Ruth Kaiser is Notre Dame's leading scorer, averaging 14.0 points per game ... Jenny Klauke, the first woman ever to receive a grant-in-aid at Notre Dame, is still out indefinitely with a stress fracture in her foot. Klauke is aiming to be back in the Irish lineup by December 18, when they will take part in the Penn Holiday Tournament ... Prior to last night's game, Notre Dame's biggest margin of victory was a 48-point spread against Davidson last season. 

"If the game was discontinued," added teammate Theresa Mullins, "it would he a shame." 
Both coaches also expressed their feelings about ending the series. "I would not want to discontinue the rivalry," said Dallesio. DiStanislao agreed that the rivalry should con­tinue. "It's a neat matchup and I hope it goes on," she said. "It's a rivalry that should he expressed, as any other college rivalry." 
But is it really advantageous to the 


,-.~---­
The Observer Sports. Wednesday, December 9, 1981-page 14 

The Observercongratulates Northwestern Head Coach Dennis Green for winning thejoan ofArc award given by the Bottom Ten staff (APPhoto) 
{8][8][8][8][8][8][8][8] 
All Observer reporters : 
[8] [81 
MANDATORY meeting I?<I tonight at 6:30 IX) 
[81[8][8][8][8][8][8][81 
--:­

It_---------------~--------­
Assistant coach 
Toth-F ejel joins Wrestling team 
but we're not about to take on the and there was all the talk of a

By BRIAN REIMER 
national powers. boycott, I concluded that God did

Sports Writer 
"One technique I've instituted not want me to be on this earth for a this year is one that helped me turn brief moment of glory. I concluded
There is a new face in the Notre from a 13-12 wrestler as a sopho­that wrestling was for enjoyment,

.Dame wrestling circles this season. more to a 26-0 one as a senior. I call but not something to live for. Some
He is Tihamer Toth-Fejel it the Dust Particle Theory. To bet­people play tennis. Some run.
(pronounced Toth-Fail), a graduate ter our concentration, we study the wrestle."
student in electrical engineering dust particles on the mat. If we con­
and a former wrestling stand-out at 
Lehigh. Toth-Fejel is serving as an as­centrate on the particles, the match Toth-Fejel also serves the univer­will take care of itself. If you think sity as the president of the LS or­
sistant coach to his former high too much in wrestling, you end up ganization. "We are a grass roots
school mentor and present Irish coach, Brotherjoseph Bruno. on your back. organization which attempts to ed­"Wrestling is not enough for my ucate the public towards the
Toth-Fejel brings four years ofcol­life. I need the intellectual stimulus benefits of space exploration and
legiate coaching experience to the program, having spent that time as that engineering provides. When I colonization. That, too, is important was preparing for the Olympic Trials for me." 
an assistant at San jose State. As a wrestler, he placed fifth in the NCAA tournament as :a senior at Lehigh and third in the 1981 AAU National Freestyle Championships. He also 
...Grapplers

has experience in Greco-Roman wrestling. Toth-Fejel left Legigh graduate school before receiving his degree. continuedfrom page 16 
At 190-lbs, freshman Shawn "Brother Bruno made me an offer I Moloney combines, in the words of couldn't refuse. A master's degree is class to the 1 SO-pound category, be­

Coach Bruno, "strong self pride and a nice piece of paper to have and cause two regulars at that weight determination" to lead the Irish in 

Notre Dame is a great place to class, juniors Greg Lezynski and an important weight class. Because coach. There are only three schools Doug Skjnner, are sick. Senior Brian where I could coach: Lehigh, Stan­Erard and sophomore Karl ford, and Notre Dame. Those three Dahlhauser represent Notre Dame there is as ofyet no heavyweight on schools refus<: to use their wrestlers at 158 pounds. the team, a dual meet can often be while most s':hools leave you with decided on Shawn's ability to make nothing to do when you graduate. It sure the Irish are winning by more
Freshman Phil Baty, who wrestles

isn't every day when you have the than six points when his match is
in the 167-pound class, is in the

chance to coach at a school like over.
words of Coach Bruno "as good as

Notre Dame. 
always. He opened the season win­
"One advantage of our wrestling In tonight's triangular, three
ning the individual title at Michigan

program is that a good wrestler matches will go on at the same time doesn't always have to wait three on two mats. For some weight
State. That's really good." Baty, a

years to wrestle. When I was at classes, a Notre Dame wrestler will 
fourth place wrestler in the state of

Lehigh, I had two national champs in have two matches. In other weight
Michigan, supports a 1 S-4 record.

my weight class, so I got beat up a lot 
Sophomore Mike Schmitt and fresh­

before it was my turn to start. There classes, Coach Bruno can opt to split 
man Mike Smith (another walk-on)

are two ways to turn a program the duties between two wrestlers. 
around quickly: accepting transfers Tonight's match provides the only and hiring numerous coaches. We battle for the starting spot at 177 chance for students to see the team won't do either. We're improving, pounds. before break. 
• 
Wildcatspurr to top spot 

How, you ask, could Bottom Ten voters give The Cus­ter Bowl, signifying the nation's worst team, to an 0-11 club when another team set the NCAA record for most losses in a season? 
Easy. 

We went through an intricate series of tie-breakers, The Bottom Ten suggested by our good friend Pete Rozelle. We con­sidered pertinent statistics such as: average yearly rain­
faders, Elway tops the list. Stanford was a pre-seasonfall on each campus, uniform design, number offoreign Top 20 team and Elway was touted as one of thestudents, whether or not the school's town had a Den­country's top QB's. Then he signed a contract with theny's restaurant, number of cheerleaders named Gloria, N.Y. Yanks, got confused and started to "throw'emwhether the digits in the schools' zip codes added up to where they ain't." 

an odd number, amount of Mr. Pibb consumed at each school, number of players with father (or mother) Here are the final rankings: 
named Bruno, and other vital facts. When all was said and done, voters got together and 
1) Northwestern (0-11) -losing streak at 31

flipped a coin -a Susan B. Anthony dollar. It came up 2) Colorado State (0-12) -will the Rams move totails and the winner was Northwestern -who chose 
L.A.?

heads. 
3) Eastern Michigan (0-11) -Hurons move to
Thus, another season draws to a close and for the first Division I A next yeartime ever, The Bottom Ten's' pre-season favorite 

4) Baltimore Colts (1-13) -a threat to Tampa

capped a perfect season by winning the natural cham­Bay's two-year record?
pionship. 
5) Texas-El Paso (1-10) -comfortable as an oldWas there ever a doubt? 
slipper
Well, yes, actually. 
6) Oregon State (1-10) -combined with OregonThe Northwestern Wildcats opened the season 
togo 3-19 

against soon-to-be-dismal Indiana, and shocked fans 
7) Memphis State (1-10) -will wear blue suede

everywhere by almost winning. The 27 points they 
shoes in '82 

scored were exactly one-third of their season output. 
8) Virginia (1-10) -basketball season's here ­Fortunately for Cat fans however, the 29 points they 

Wahooo! 

gave up amounted to only 5 percent of their final total. 
9) GeorgiaTech (1-10)-engineered a wreck after upsetting 'BarnaAil told, Northwestern gave up just under SO points 
10) New England Patriots (2-12) -whither 

per game and sc'ored roughly 7. Rarely has a team been Chuck Fairbanks?
dominated so totally -and so consistently. In the process, Coach Dennis Green won the Bottom 
Also receiving votes:

Ten's coveted joan of Arc "Is it hot in here or is it just me?" Award for accepting the head job in Evanston . 
Penn (1-9)
Much ofthe news this year came from the West. 
Columbia (1-9)
Two years ago UTEP added a 12th game to its 
Kansas State (2-9)

schedule, but somehow managed to win a game during 
Oregon (2-9)

the season. Not ones to let a great idea pass, Colorado St. added a 12th game to their schedule this season. When 
Quote ofthe year:

the dust settled, the Rams had lost them all. 
Tampa Bay quarterback Doug Williams, after
The annual and much heralded Lowsman Trophy was 
Buc coach John McKay posted Chicago Bear

awarded last weekend, and to the surprise of no one, it 
quotes in the lockerroom to psych his players

went to Stanford'sjohn Elway. 
before a game: "There are a lot of guys on this
The Cardinal quarterback led his team to a nearly 
team who can read, and the rest had it explainedto 

awesome 4-7 season. When it comes to late-season , 


The Observer _-~=. -=-----c=~--~= =---=I=~,====~==-==~==== 
T0 da~==============W=ed=n=e;::s=d=a=y,=D=e=c=e=m=b=e=r=9=,=1=9=8=1==p=a=g=e=l::::::S

.. 
r 
f 
Wednesday, December 9, 1981-page 16

SRorts 

Matvey scores 18 
Irish ring Belles, 92-29 
Gamecock Coach Pam Parsons had perimeter.

By MARK HANNUKSELA 
only eight players on her travelling "I also thought we held our poise squad. pretty well tonight," he said. Five players, led by junior center 
Sports Writer 
Parsons could do nothing short of "Against Franklin last week, we were Shari Matvey, scored in double telling her players to quit to prevent totally out ofcontrol in the first halt; figures, and five team records were 
them from scoring I 24 points but tonight we were okay." broken as Notre Dame romped past against the Irish. Freshman Carrie Bates, Notre Saint Mary's College 92-29last night Despite the blowout, Belles Dame's leading scorer in it's tirst two in the ACC. Coach Jerry Dallessio saw some contests, started tonight in place of 
Matvey, playing in a reserve role, things that pleased him in his team's Matvey. scored 18 points, 14 of them in the performance. "I'm still experimenting with with second half, as Notre Dame broke "Our defense played well when it my lineup," DiStanislao said, "and I team records for most points ever got a chance to set up," he said. just wanted to see what Carrie 
scored in a single game, most points "They had a lot oftransition baskets, would do in a starting r_ole." ever scored at home, biggest margin sure, but our zone defense was pret­What she did was manage only of victory, most field goals made, ty effective. We wanted to contain one field goal in two attempts, and and most assists. their big people and force them to five rebounds. Freshmen Ruth Kaiser, Laura 
shoot from the outside, and we·did. See SLAUGHTER, page 13

Daugherty and Mary Beth Schueth A lot of their shots were from the 
followed with 16, 14 and 11 points, ====================::::;:::========
while juniorJanlice Crowe had 12. 
w 1 1 

The Belles were paced by fresh­man Elaine Suess, who scored five 
second-halfpoints, and finished with 
se;~~ior 
tri-captain Anne 

Armstrong, and freshman Melissa Van Ort -SMC's leading scorers through the first five games ­
combined for only six points in the contest. 
Irish Coach Mary DiStanislao was very sensitive about her team's mar­gin of victory, and emphasized that she was not trying to run up the score against the overmatched Belles. 
In a sense, DiStanislao had no choice. The situation was similar to
ball. Mary Pat Sitlington, shown her shooting over Notre Dame's 
last season's Notre Dame-South
jan Crowe, said that both teams consider this a strong rivalry. 
Carolina contest, when Lady
(Photo by Cheryl Ertelt) 
.. Basketball teatn sets 1reco1"ds' 
UV AJED (reverse deja vu ) -When Digger Phelps told a handful of reporters after the Murray State game that "this year is certainly different," no one really disagreed. After all, the statistics on this year':> season don't quite measure up to last year's performance. But just like we told you the good news last year, we'll offer you the bad news now. 
Notre Dame's 26-point loss to UCLA on Saturday was 

the worst loss in the history ofthe ACC. The most home days due to final exams. The Irish erupted to thump the games any Irish team has lost in a single season since Huskies, 111-92 in the ACC on December 10, 1969 in 1973-74 has been two, with the Irish losing three in thei1 only previous meeting. 1972-73 and nine games the season before. However. Entertaining the Crusaders of Valparasio on Decem­Murray State represented the first "non-power" team to ber 22 before embarking on a wicked five-game road upset the Irish in the history of the ACC. Notre Dame's trip, the Irish have their work cut out for them over home losses in the last 10 years have been to teams the Christmas break. The Irish do own a 23-I advantage in likes of Ohio State, Indiana, UCLA, Michigan State, their series with the Crusaders (Valpo's only win was in 
-Maryland, Marquette, DePaul and North Carolina State. l92I ), but that is of little solace considering the five They also suffered defeats at the hands ofSt. Louis, Du­games that follow. quesne, West Virginia, St.John's, Fordham and Villanova Notre Dame faces Kentucky (yes, once more in in 1971-72, all of which were highly respected squads Freedom Hall) on December 29 in the first year of a that season. two-year home-and-home contract between the two 
Going back to 1976-77 reveals the last time an Irish schools. The Irish played Kentucky for II straight years team lost three straight games, when the Irish suffered on the "neutral court" of Freedom Hall in Louisville successive losses at the hands of Kentucky ( 102-72 ), (that's as neutral as Elkhart). That contract expired last Princeton ( 76-62 ), Villanova (64-62) and Marquette season, and the new contract calls for one more game in ( 78-69). Ironically, the last time the Irish lost three Louisville this season, followed by a Kentucky ap­straight games by a total of 42 points (69-55 at Indiana, pearance in the ACC next year, its first on an Irish home 75-49 vs. UCLA and 56-54 vs. Murray State) was the first court since 1950. The Wildcats own a 28-15 advantage three losses mentioned above. over the Irish, and only Michigan State ( 35) and Indiana 
Although the Irish have suffered some disappointing ( 29) have more wins over Notre Dame. The Irish upset losses already, there is always a ray of hope. The last Kentucky, 67-61last year, but Joe B.'s boys won the six time an Irish team opened its season at 1-3 was Digger previous battles. Phelps' 1972-73 team. In fact, that squad ran its fortune­The Irish then travel to Kansas City's Kemper Arena less string to 1-6 with losses to Michigan, Ohio State, St. for a matchup with the Missouri Tigers. The Tigers Louis, Indiana, UCLA and Kentucky (sandwiching a win knocked the Irish out ofthe 1980 NCAA tournament in over Valparaiso in between). However, they went 17-6 theif first game with an 87-84 triumph. That was the for the remainder of the season and dropped a one­only previous meeting between the schools. point overtime decision to Virginia Tech in th~; finals of the National Invitational Tournament. 
Notre Dame also challenges LaSalle in the Palestra in Gary Brokaw and John Shumate, both Irish assistant Philadelphia on january 4 before heading for Landover, coaches now, were a starting guard and forward Maryland's Capital Centre for a January 6 date with Vir­respectively, on that team. 
ginia. Notre Dame enjoys a 9-1 advantage over the Ex­EXPERIENCE COUNTS -For those number­plorers, and upset the Cavaliers, 57-56 on an Orlandoconscious sports fans out there, Brokaw and Shumate Woolridge desparation jumper on NBC-TV last seasonhave almost as much NBA experience between them as-. 
i9 their only previous meeting. · the current Irish team has college experience. Shumate The Irish round out their road runnings on the Westis a veteran ofseven NBA seasons, while Brokaw spent Coast when they take on San Francisco in the Oaklandfour seasons in professional basketball. With one senior Coliseum in the first of two annual Irish-Don faceoffs. 
(not including walk-on Marc Kelly), three juniors, three Notre Dame is 4-3, having split a pair of games lastsophomores and two freshmen, this Notre Dame team season with USF. 
sports 12 years ofcollege basketball experience. MORE TO COME -The Irish play host to Northern See ITEMS, page 11 Illinois on Saturday at 1:30 p.m. in their last game in 10 
... 
rest ers grapp e 
h • h 
at orne ton1g t 
By BRIAN REIMER lingness to wrestle: aggressively on 
Sports Writer takedowns is his greatest asset. He 
The Notre Dame wrestling team doesn't give up when he makes a 
opens its home season with a tri-mistake." 
angular meet against Ohio Northern Both wrestlers at 126 lbs. are 
and Olivet tonight at 7:30p.m. in the injured so the Irish will have to sur­
ACC Pit. The Irish stand at 1-0 in render six points at that weight class 
head-to-head competition so far this · tonight. Fresh_man John Bagnasco, 
year, having won at Valparaiso last who has been wrestling well lately, 
Wednesday. Five weeks of tourna-will start at 134 pounds. John was a 
ment competition are behind them. New York state champion in high 
Assistant Coach Tihamer Toth-school. 
Fejel claims that "when I first walked The Irish are loaded at 142 lbs. into the practice room this year, 1 The Agostino brothers, junior Pete was afraid of our lack of coordina-and sophomore captain Joe, hold tion. Now, we're doing really well. records of 14-5 and 12-4 respective­The whole team is better and the im-ly. The two are graduates of South provement is incredible.'' Bend's St. Joseph's High School. Joe 
This year's wrestling team is one may have te miss tonight's match be of the youngest in the school's his-cause of a injured. ankle. Semor cap-­tory. Injuries to some ofthe recruits tain Curt Rood stands at 8-8 and have given the burden of winning feshman walk-on Jeff Herrmann is 8­matches to freshmen. First in the 6. Coach Brother Joseph Bruno is line of freshmen starters is Joe pleased with the depth at that Andreetti, captain of last year's weight class. Florida state champions. Joe, who It is not uncommon for a 142­finished third in the state individual-pound wrestler to jump up a weight ly, has a 6-8 record at 118 pounds. 
See GRAPPLERS, page 14Coach Bruno claims that "Joe's wil-
Former wrestler. sues University 
By BILL MARQUARD 
this year.
Sports Writer 
The suit itself · alleges that Notre Dame officials made anAformer Notre Dame wrestler oral agreement to guarantee thehas sued the University of Notre partial grant for DeBaggis' four­Dame for $150,000 for dis­year stay at the University.
continuing his partial grant-in­aid. However, DeBaggis was in­
Paul DeBaggis, a graduate of formed via a letter last June that Cleveland Heights High School, his grant was being withdrawn. enrolled as a freshman at the Uni­the reason being a money versity in 1979 after finishing crunch. 
fourth at 16 7 pounds in the 1979 Ohio State Championships. At the time of his enrollment, he was offered an annual grant of S3,200 by the Financial Aid Department. 
DeBaggis compiled a 2-2 record as a freshman and an 8-2 record during his sophomore season last year. However, he left the team at mid-season. His father, a 1951 Notre Dame graduate who filed the suit in Cleveland Common Pleas court, 

claims that his son left the team 
Paul DeBaggis
because of a personality conflict with the coach.· However, DeBaggis was recruited by Ray sources close to the wrestling Sepeta, who left his post as wres­team assert that he was dismissed tling coach after DeBaggis' fresh­
for disciplinary reasons, par­man year in order to devote full ticularly for his behavior on an time to his duties in the Fresh­airplane during the team's trip to man Year Office. Sepeta was Virginia for the Hampton Dual succeeded by Brother Joseph meets during early-January of Bruno, CSC. 





