, , , South Africa -page 3 

VOL. XVI, NO. 62 an indt"pendent student newspaper serving notre dame and saint mary's THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 19, 1981 

Russians assail new Reagan proposal 
WASHINGTON (AP)-President Reagan, in his major foreign policy speech, challegcd the Soviet Union yesterday to take "a giant step for mankind" by joining the United States in a sweeping reduction of nuclear and conventional arms in Europe and around the world. But the Soviets immediately denounced the proposal. 
In a speech televised livt· to Europe and the United States, Reagan said he Is prepared to caned deployment of Pershing II and ground-launched cruise missiles to NATO forces if the Soviets dismantle their 55-20, SS-4 and SS-5 missiles. 
"This would be an historic step," Reagan said. "With Soviet agree­ment, we could substantially reduce the dread threat of nuclear war which hangs over the peopk of Europe. 
"This, like the first footstep on the moon, would be a giant stt·p for mankind." 
Reagan asked the Soviets to pull 
ba<:k some of their conventional 
forces, saying there could he "no 
more convincing contribution to 
peace in Europe and in the world." 
And, finally, he renewed a 
proposal for a conference -and an 
invitation for the Soviets to join it ­
to rt>duce tht· risks of"chance ofwar 
arising out of uncertainty or miscal­
culation." 
Tht· prt~sident promised that "no 
NATO weapons, conventional or 
nuclear. will ever be used in Europe 
exet·pt in response to attack." But he 
said "the momt·ntum ofthe continu­
Ing Soviet military build-up 
threatens hoth the conventional and the nuclear halance." 
Cancelling deployment of 5 72 new cruise and Pershing II missiles in Europe and a dismantling of the Soviet SS-20. SS-4 :mrl SS-"i missiles would eliminate intermediate range nuclear forces in Europe. 
It would leave the United States with its current 6,000 short-range nuclear warheads in Europe, which can barely reach the western edge of the Soviet Union. 
The Reagan proposal will be presented formally in Geneva on Nov. 30, the start of talks on limiting theater nuclear weapons. 
Reagan said the United States has prepared carefully for resumptions of strategic arms negotiations "because we do not want a repetiti­tion of past disappointments ... that sends hopes soaring only to end in dashed expectations." 
He said he ha.~ told Brezhnev that the cuts he seeks should result in levels "that are equal and verifiable" and that "our approach to verifica­tion will be to emphasize openness and creativity, rather than the secrecy and suspicion which have undermined confidence in arms control in the past." 
Secretary of State Alexander M. Haig, Jr. is to meet in Geneva on Jan. 26 and 27 with Soviet Foreign Minis­ter Andrei Gromyko to discuss the beginning of the talks. 
The president made no mention of any pre-conditions for the negotiations, although he previously has said he would not meet with Brezhnev or conduct arms talks un­less the Soviets stop arming insur­gents in El Salvador. 


Treasury Secretary Donald Regan raises hisfist ing, left, at Peking's Great Hall ofPeople during to show that be is in good shape at a recent the second annual meeting of Sino-U.S. joint meeting with China's Vice Premier Deng Xiaop-economic committee. ( AP Photo) 
In Europe 

U.S. asks for nuclear reduction 
MOSCOW (AP)-The Soviet Uni­on accused President Reagan of trying to achieve U.S. milit .. ;y super­iority "through the back door" with his proposal yesterday to reduce U.S. and Soviet nuclear missiles in Europe. 
Denouncing Reagan's speech in Washington as "propagandistic," the official Tass news agency claimed 
Allen/magazine deal 


Yat'n ofyen: Japanese tell stoty 
By RICHARD BILL 
Associated Press 
TOKYO -japanese editors and publishers are 
surprised at the uproar created by reports that Presi­
dent Reagan's national security adviser accepted a 
$1,000 honorarium from ajapanese women's magazine 
for helping to arrange an interview with Nancy Reagan. 
It's a "customary practice" in Japan, said one editor, 
although most journalists arc wary ofoffering money to 
public officials. 
"The practice of paying for interviews to celebrities is prevalent in Japan -it's just like paying someone who has contributed articles for publication," said Kinjl Kawamurd. 
--------------------------~\
managing direc­
tor ofthe Foreign 
Press Center. an 
organization 
funded by the 
governmt·nt to 

help foreign journalists. 
But Kawamura, who formerly headed the Wa.~hing­ton hurcau of the mass-circulation newspaper Asabi, said such payments arc made to the person inter­viewed, not to intermediaries or people in office. 
"That is totally unacceptable," he declared. 
White House spokesman Larry Speakes said last week the money wa.o; discovered in mid-September, eight months after the interview, in a safe belonging to Reagan adviser Richard V. Allen. 
While denying any impropriety. Allen acknowledged receiving the money from the magazine Sbufu-no­Tomo (Housewives' Friend), which interviewed Mrs. Reagan in Washington on Jan. 21, the day after her hus­band was inaugurated. Allen said he forgot about the money after it was placed in the safe. 
TheJustice Department Is investigating the incident. 
Asabi reported yesterday that the women's magazine which gave Allen the S 1,000 also sent Mrs. Reagan a handmade letter box. The newpaper said the first lady sent two thank-you letters, written on White House stationary, for the gift to the reporters who conducted the interview. 
The value of the box was not disclosed in the Asabi 
article. U.S. officials are prohibited from keeping gifts 
valued at more than S I 00. The penalty for violating that 
law, enacted in 1977, is a fine ofup to Sl 0,000. 
Speakes identified the gift as a black lacquered 
stationary box with a hand-painted design. He said that 
a Washington gallery that specializes in in Asian art has 
valued it at S75. 
Kawamura said popular magazines like Sbufu-no­
Tomo, which claims a circulation of ';00,000, rarely 
have extensive business contacts or large editorial 
staffs. "So the only way they can get scoop interviews is 
to offer large sums of money," he said. 
Mitsuru Ando, editor of Bungei Sbunju, a monthly literary magazin.: with 700,000 readers, said, "We al­
ways pay money or give gifts to interviewees. Payme range from 10,000 yen ( S45) to millions of yen, depending on news value and the time it takes to set it 
up." 
Ando said ! 1,000 for Mrs. Reagan's interview was "probably the proper amount." But he added: "I won­der why the party in Washington didn't straighten it out (the matter of who received the money) beforehand, since they knew they couldn't accept it." 
Tsunco Takahashi. former editor ofjoset }isbin, a women's weekly, said that publication "usually gives gifts to public figures instead of money when we inter­view them. In the case of private citizens, we usually give money." 
Takahao;hi, who now edits another publication for the same company, said his magazine would not have done whatSbufu-no-Tomo did. 
"We wouldn't give her (Mrs. Reagan) money. We probably would have given a gift to her, not to a mid-
See YEN, page 4 
the U.S. president was only "pretending" to renounce deploy­ment ofnew U.S. nuclear missiles, in order to influence European public opinion. 
"He cited completely fantastic data about the balance of forces on an order of six-to-one, in spite of ir­refutable facts which confirm the existence in Europe ofapproximate balance on these arms between NATO and the U.S.S.R.," asserted the Tass report, read on Soviet tdevi­si!m's main evening news program. 
Reagan offered to retreat from a NATO decision to station 592 Persh­ing II and cruise missiles in Western Europe if Moscow agrees to pull back its own SS-20s and other medium-range missiles, already sta­tioned in Western Russia and aimed at Western Europe. 
Soviet and American negotiators to sit down in Geneva, Switzerland, Nov . .30 to discuss limiting theater llllclcar forces. 
Earlier yesterday, before Reagan's address, the Kremlin rejected this idea in advance. 
Such a move would tilt tht· European balance in the West's favor and would amount to "the Soviet Union's unilateral disarma­
ment," the official N(WOsti news agency said. 
The Novosti commentary was a reiteration of Soviet President Leonid I. Brezhnev's previous rejec­tion of such a U.S. negotiating posi­tion. 
The North Atlantic alliance decided in December 1979 to begin deploying the so-called "theater nuclear forces" in 1983 to counter the Soviet weapons. 
The prospect of additional nuclear weapons on the continent 
stirred growing prott·st demonstra­tions by disarmament advocates in West Germany and elsewhere in Europe in recent weeks. Comments by Reagan about the possibility '1f confining a nuclear conflict to Europe heightened the opposition. 
Reagan's proposal, coming less than a week before Brezhncv visits West Germany, may put the United States in a less defensive position politically as the negotiations begin. 
See U.S., page 4 



Finance club sponsors business lectures 
By TOM SHAUGHNESSY 
News Staff 
Jonathan Lindley, the executive vice president of the National Savings and Loan League, spoke at the Center for Continuing Educa­tion last night in the second of three 
lectures sponsored by the Finance Club. 
Lindley addressed pertinent issues in the field of finance, among them housing mortgages and the current trend toward diversity among regulated depository institu­tions. He stated that "in this period of deregulation, savings and loan in­stitutions should be more free to choose" their financial endeavors and the variety of profit-yielding ventures in which they deal. For the future, Lindley projected that savings and loans will have to become multi-service firms. 
The Savings and Loan League is a national trade organization which represents nearly 300 savings and loan associations, concentrated primarily in the Sun Belt. 
Lindley is a graduate of George Washington University, and he com­pleted graduate work in economic policy there while working as a teaching fellow. In 1964 he was awarded a Congressional Staff Fel­lowship by the American Political Science Association. 





ews Briefs 

By The Observer and The AssociatedPress 
Soon it may be legal to boil bones in west Philadel­phia -and a married woman can buy a sewing machine alone with­out fear ofarrest. The Pennyslvania Statehouse voted yesterday to lift prohibitions against both practices, as it repealed dozens ofobsolete laws, some dating back to the 1700s. Rep. James Gallen of Berks spearheaded "Operation Repeal" to rid the books of laws he described as "kind ofgoofy." -AP 
Notre Dame Professor Norlin G. Rueschoff, chair­man of the Department of Accountancy, has been elected to two separate posts in the 1 0,000-member American Accounting As­sociaton. He was elected to serve a three-year term with the associa­tion's International Accounting Section (lAS) and also to the I 981-82 Nominations Committee. The lAS has 60 members from 47 countries and was organized in 1976 to foster international account­ing education research. Rueschoff has previously served as its academic vice president, treasurer and education committee chair­man. The Observer 
The head Of the Veterans Administration said yester­day that ifthe govet:nment decides to compensate Vietnam veterans for any harm caused by Agent Orange the cost will run into the billions of dollars for years to come. "We would be looking at hundreds of millions ofdollars per year, going into the middle ofthe next century," VA administrator Robert Nimmo said in the first public estimate by a high official of the cost of paying veterans if studies conclude that the herbicide permanently damaged their health. Sen. Arlen Specter, R-Pa., questioning Nimmo at a hearing, suggested that the high cost ofcompensation is "a major inhibiting factor" in reaching a conclusion whether the herbicide has harmed veterans, as many say. Nimmo told the Senate Veterans Affairs Com­mittee of another delay. He disclosed that the Veterans Administra­tion has rejected a proposed design for the study. The design was prepared by the University of California at Los Angeles under a 
$114,288 VA contract awarded May 1. UCLA has been given 35 days to revise it, Nimmo said. The designers of the study said that the investigation will not produce duce findings for four years. -AP 
"Whetherthe issue is one ofincreasing employment stability to enhance group learning, cooperation, and productivity, or ofincreasing employment stability to avert bloody class warfare, the times are ripe for a new 'New Deal' for labor." So says Michael). Carter, an instructor in economics at the University of Utah, in the introduction to a book recently published at the University on labor economics. New Directions in Labor Economics and Industrial Relations, published last month by the University of Notre Dame Press, includes essays by Carter, William H. Leahy, a professor of economics at Notre Dame and Charles Craypo, an associate profes­sor of economics at Notre Dame, as well as three others by economists David M. Gordon; Lester C. Thurow, and Charles C. Kil­lingworth. "The unifying theme running through the essays," 
_ according to Carter, "is that recovery from the present period of economic stagnation requires new approaches to labor relations both at the level of the firm and in terms of government legal and regulatory policy."-The Obseroer 
Soprano Leontyne Price agreed to make an un­scheduled appearance pearance yesterday in San Francisco opposite Luciano Pavarotti in the lead role of Verdi's "Aida." The soloist with the New York Metropolitan Opera Company was to perform the role of Margaret Price, no relation, who has a cold, San Francisco Opera spokesman Jeffrey Rubin said. Leontyne Price, once a soloist with the San Francisco company, was in San Francisco rehearsing for a role in another opera. Tickets to the performances have been sold out for months and scalpers were getting hundreds of dollars for seats. -AP 
Carey Peck, son of actor Gregory Peck, has withdrawn from a state Assembly race in Santa Monica, Calif., against activist Tom Hayden, saying the campaign would cost more than the seat is worth. Peck, 32, said yesterday he will not seek the Democratic nomination in the 44th Assembly District, in part because of the cost. He called the anticipated campaign spending "totally out of proportion to the importance of the office." Peck has lost two con­gressional bids. Hayden, 4 I, is married to actress jane Fonda and heads the Campaign for Economic Democracy. The 44th Assembly District seat is being vacated by Democrat Mel Levine, who is run­ning for Congress. -AP 
Windy with occasional rain today and tonight. High today in upper 40s to low 50s. Low tonight in mid to upper 30s. Rain slowly ending tomorrow. Cold with highs in the upper 30s to low 40s. Chance ofrain 70 percent today and 80 percent tonight. -AP 
Thursday, November 19, 1981 -page 2 

Campbell discusses 0-C plans 
Vice President for Student Affairs Fr. John Van Wolvlear recently announced the appointment of BrotherJohn Campbell as assistant director ofstu­dent housing at Notre Dame, succeeding Brother Edward Luther, who resigned to resume full-time activities as rector of Morrissey Hall. 
Brother Campbell begins serving in this posi­tion Dec. 1 and will be in charge of off-campus housing. 
This announcement comes in the wake of Fr. Van Wolvlear's rejection ofthe Campus Life Coun­cil's proposal for a full-time off-campus housing director. 
The CLC Task Force on the Northeast Neigh­borhood recommended that the University devote more professional attention to off-campus concerns in order to improve neighborhood rela­tions. 
The Task Force decided that a full-time off­campus housing director would help resolve such problems as the shortage of on-campus housing; stressful relations be­tween students and per­manent residents in more densely student­populated areas such as the Northeast Neighbor­hood; the off-campus housing list, which is 
-feportedly somewhat in­accurate; off-campus crime; and the amount of time the director is available for students. 
The Task Force proposed several duties for the position, includ­ing: inspecting new housing listings and re­inspecting old listings; encouraging realtors and developers interested in providing new and remodeled housing for off-campus students; working with the off-campus commissioner; improving relations with landlords; becoming a member of the Northeast Neighborhood Council; maintaining contact with South Bend Police and Notre Dame Security; increasing availability to students; and maintaining and improving current off-campus to campus transportation. 
This program, according to the Task force, would benefit both the University and students by providing a comprehensive approach for off­
• campus housing direction. 
Brother Campbell, assistant rector for Fisher Hall, said he plans to perform many of the duties proposed by the Task Force, adding that he has met with student representatives and plans to schedule meetings with Off-Campus Commis­
The_Ohs.erxer 
Design Editor ...................... Lisa Bontempo Design Assistants .......... Mike McCaught:y Typesetter.......................... Toni Rutherford News Editors ................................. Kelli Flint Mary Agnes Carey Tim Verccllotti Copy Editors ................... Tom Melsheimer Paula Groves Sports Copy Editor ............. Skip Desjardin Typist ........................................... Uave Grote Systems Control ................... Bruce Oakley ND DQ_y Editor .......................... Dave Grote SMC Day Editor ....................... Cece Baliles Ad Design..................................... Fran & Co. Photographer ......................... Cheryl Ertel! Guest Appearances .......... Darby and Griff 
Birthday Girl 
Musumeci 
Kelly 'Star' Sullivan Mules and Assorted Canoonists Trivialities 
Moooo 


-1111J()SI\<\l' ~1~1-11 fll,.. SI()IIS 

Thursday, November 19 
Written on the Wind Universal 1956 (92 min.) Douglss Sirk's most intriguing and elegant 1950's 
Rock Hudson, Lauren Bacall, Robert Stack an Dorothy Malone as the poor little rich girl among the Texas oil derricks. Cinematography by Russell Melly. 
Jal() Jlru ,..IJSIIJ,.. ()f 4()1 §~t)il§(lrt1cl t>l' tilt? c)~ITJ·§~·(l~ ,1.()() ~[) §,..( ((),..,..1)~1(411()~ ~ 111f41()J 

sioner KathyJurado and the Off-Campus Commis­sion, Saint Mary's Off-Campus Commissioner Kathleen Engler and· the South Bend Police Department. "I want to act as a liason between students and the South Bend Police," he said. 
The first major project Brother Campbell plans to undertake is revision ofthe off-campus housing list. "I plan on updating the list by checking back with landlords every 2-3 weeks," Campbell said. "I also plan to have photos ofthe listings available for students." 
Campbell added that he sees no need for addi­tional staff at this point. "I have a full-time secretary," he said. "I don't know whether I will 
need assistants at this point." 
A former Marine Ser­geant, Campbell has been a Holy Cross Brother since 1973, serving as a medical assistant since 1976 at the Holy Cross Brothers Infirmary and the Student Health Cen­ter. Brother Campbell also does volunteer work at St. Joseph's Medical Center and is a Spanish tutor for Notre Dame ath­letes. 
Campbell noted that 
he wants the off-campus /) f<Jl~ housing office to be -I vl recognized by StUdentS. 
"I want to let students know I'm there," he said. "I want students to use the office and take advantage ofwhat we have to offer." 
Campbell emphasized the fact that he has a great deal oftime available to devote to the office, since he is leaving his job at the Student Health Center and, unlike Brother Luther, is an assistant rector at Fisher, which consumes less time. "I feel that I can perform adequately both as assistant rector and off-campus housing director." he said. 
Campbell's immediate plans and enthusiasm for the role of assistant housing director indicate a positive future for the off-campus housing office. 
Observer notes._______, The Observer is always looking for new repor­ters. If you like to write and can devote a few hours each week to reporting, visit our office on LaFortune's third floor. Talk to one of our new .s editors. They'll be glad to get you started. 

Editorial Board 

Editor-in-Chief....-....................... .)ohn McGrath THE INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER 


==Ihe_---ObserYer== 
Executive News Editor......................... Kelli Flint Sports Editor ..............................Michael Ortman SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
News Editor ..................................Tim Vercellotti Editorials Editor.......................Anthony Walton FOUNDED NOV. 3, 1966 News Editor............................. David Rickabaugh 
Photo Editor....... : ............................... .)ohn Macor The Obseroer is an independent Editorials represent the opinion of a 
SMC Executive Editor........... Mary Agnes Carey 
Features Editor .........................Gregory Swiercz 

newspaper published by the students ofthe majority of the Editorial Board. Commen· SMC News Editor......................Cathy Domanico 
University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint taries, opinions and letters are the views of 
Mary's College. It does not necessarily their authors. Column space is available to Department Managers
reflect the policies of the administration of all members of the community, and the free 
either institution. The news is reported as expression of varying opinions on campus, _ _ _J!!!slness Manager .........................Rich Coppola 
accurately and as objectiv~_as possible. through letters. is encouraged. Production Manager ................... Michael Monk Controller.............................................)oe Multlur 
Circulation Manager .............Tom MacLennan Advertising Manager .......................Chris Owen
P.O.BOX Q,NOTRE DAME, IN 46556 . (219)is3-s66t 
_I 

----------------~:---·---~-------------------------------------------­
----------------~-----­
Thursday, November 19, 1981 -page 3

The Observer 

Attitudes and treatment 
Taylor speaks on retarded 
ByBILLKOLB 
StaffReporter 
Dr. Stephen Taylor of Syracuse University discussc·d U.S attitudes and policy towards the mentally retarded in a lccturt· yesterday after­noon in Room I 0 I of the Law School. 
In his lecture, entitled "The Com­

munity Impc-r.ttivc·: The Right of All 
Developmentally Disabled Persons 
to Live in the Community," Taylor 
urgd that the U.S. "de­
institutionalize" the mentally 
retardcds' environment. 
Taylor first traced a hrief history 

of thc· nation's policy of in­
stitutionalizing the disahlcd, assert­
ing that social theorists at the turn of 


Carter discusses policy of South Africans 
By MOLLY RYAN 
News Staff 
Professor Gwendolen M. Carter of Indiana Vniversity discussed the political and economic changes occuring in South Africa in a lecture last night in the Library Auditorium. 
The talk, entitlc:d "Change in South Africa: How Deep Docs It Go?" was thc· fourth in the Provost's Lecture Series which is dedicated to the International Year of Disabled Persons. 
Carter, an international authority and government advisor on African affairs, expressed the hope that, through changcs in economic, political, and racial spheres, race dis­crimination will he reduced in white-dominated South Africa. These changes, which arc currently evolving, arc the result of the achievement of more African con­trol in South Africa and of the desperate demand for skilled laborers, the majority of which come from the predominantly African population. 
The home-land system which separates a vast number of Africans from whites by a forced population movement was deemed "the largest and harshest (movement) in modern times" by Carter. This sys­tem is also not economically feasible, and the South African government may be pressured into action hy the demands of the home­land inhabitants for economic change:. 
Other an:as of hopeful changes are found in South African trade uni­ons, which are demanding better conditions for hlack Africans. The young trade union members and the Allied Workers Union arc two groups cited hy Carter which are achieving positive labor gains. "American companies could take a lead of genuine significance by supporting African trade unions," Carter said. 
The existence of a stable black middle-class and the enactment of constitutional amendments to in­clude the black majority in politics arc two goals which, if achieved, would aid in eliminating black dis­crimination in South Africa. 
"The most significant recent happening for African blacks was the meeting of thirty African organiza­tions who pledged themselves to the 
The Observer (USPS 598 920) IS published Monday through Fr~day and on horne football Saturdays. except dur~ng exarn and vaca11on penods The Observer IS published by the students ol Notre Oarne and Sa1n1 Marys Col­lege Subscr~p11ons rnay be purchased for $25 per year ($15 per semester) by Wfltlng The Observer p 0 Box a Notre Darne. Indiana 46556 
The Observer IS a rnernber of The Associated Press All reproduction r~ghts are reserved 
Second class postage pa1d at Notre Oarne. lnd1ana 46556 
the century wrongly included retardation among the many rising urban social prohlems of the era. "Feehlemindedness" and retarda-, tion were characterized as social evils similar to juvenile crime, vagrancy, prostitution and venereal disease. Fearing the corruption of. society, the public, said Taylor, felt that "if we let these people out in society, they will outbrc-ed or infect 
us." 
According to Taylor, it was not until the Sixties that a significant in the public's attitude occurred. Exposes, scholarly studies and the civil rights and con~umcr move­ments contributed to the new way of thinking, and federal legislation 
was written to correct the appalling 
Freedom Chapter which claimed that Africa belongs to blacks and whites," Carter claimed. 
Thc·sc changes, though a sig­nificant beginning towards achiev­ing racial equality, only emphasize the magnitude ofwhat remains to he done. 
Professor Carter, a vtcum of childhood polio, has served as a member of the State Department's advisory council for Africa and as a trustee of the African-American In­
stitute. A prolific writer, she has published many works, the best of which is entitled, "The Politics ofIn­equality: South Africa Since 1948." 

conditions in state institutions. 
Throughout the country, 
"normalization," the practice of 
treating the mentally disabled no dif­
ferently from others than is ab­
solutely necessary, became the 
catchword used to explain an in­
stitution's approach to treating the 
disabled. 
Unfortunately, said Taylor, the ac­

tual conditions in state institutions have remained "dismal" and "degrading" despite reformative measures. While a few states have encouraged the development of · small model communitics for the mentally disabled, a hacklash against reform has occurred. Many neigh­borhoods discourage the disabled from "moving in next door." Labor unions fear the impact of de­institutionalization on employment, and the courts arc increasingly reluctant to protect the mentally 
retardcds' rights. 
Concluding, Taylor characterized 

de-institutionalization as a 
"fundemental moral issue of human 
rights." While it also raises kgal 
questions and is of concern to 
researchers and sociologists, de­
institutionalization, he said, is a 
question of values: ''Do we want 
~~~~~~e~~.:~~f,.le 
around us or is-Assistant Professor of Special Education and Director ofAdvocacy 
at the Center on Human Policy at 
Syracuse University, Taylor has been•, 
an expert witness and consultant in 
several civil rights cases on behalfof 
the mentally retarded. He has tes­
titled on de-institutionalization 
before the U.S. Senate, and will ap­pear in the CBS program20/20. The White Center of the law School sponsored his lecture. 
I for funh<?r information Write: father Andre lewille. CSC Box 541 Notre Dame. Indiana 46556 
,......................,,...,,,,,,,,,,,,,~ 
~  oanc1nq &. Rock-n-~oll  _  ~  
' '  SatuRbay , 'nov. 21 ]1m Oaly Will B€ th€ 0.). Com€ out roR th€ ~un at th€  ' I  
~ I  Chautauqua la,:ORtUn€ Clus  ' ~  
~  ~  

UR€S€nt€b sy youR n.O. Stub€nt umon_~ 
~,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,
.. 

~ StaRt th€ W€€k€nb €aRty at ~~>.., ~ 
I ~ ~ 
'ton1qht : 9:00-? lEt vouR hlbb€n tal€ntsl 
~ Run w1Lb on OpEn Staq€ !'­'tOmORROW : €XP€RI€nC€ a tRU€ ROCk ~ ~ ]am With ap€X ( f:oRmally 0€Xt ) I
I ~

B€ th€R€ 
....,,,,,,,,,,......,,......, ...,,...,,-.~ 

This Notre Dame securi~y guard puts his foot down when it comes to illegal parking on campus. Violations this year are amounting to a bumper crop, and Security asksyour col;peration in battling this perennialproblem. (photo by Chervl Brtelt) 
.*******************j
~ ~
::t S T R A /GHT FLUSH ~ k' II d t k 
.......,. rOC n r0 an COU n ry rOC ~ ~ ~­

iC now accepting bookings for formals -1l 
~ d h ll . 'l" an a partles.......,. _--­'7' M d" G d ..aS seen at ar 1 raS an  -.......,.J ff 8 ~ e arcus~ ~ 256-5586~  
~  many hall formalS  :  
~  

*******************· 
N.D. PARTY HEADQUARTERS 2128 SOUTH BEND PHONE AVENUE 277-3611 Castillo Rum--white 1 Liter................... .$5. 79 . Kamchatka Vodka I Liter. ................... $4.81 Bois Peppermint Schnapps 1 litre ...................$4.99  
Blatz Case of Quarts.................. $7.99  
PABST Case of Quarts .BLUE ..................$8.49RIBBON  


, 
! 
The Observer Thursday, November 19, 1981 -page 4 
• • • Yen 




Liturgy discussed 
Sr. Mary Lou and Fr. Fttz posed as Laura and Lukefrom General Hospital and spoke on their wedding night at BP's tnterhal/ foot­

Catholic inquiry series continues 
ballpep rally. (photo by Cheryl Erte/t) 
By MARK WORSCHEH 

der, intuition, and "We need to rediscover the StaffReporter surprise,"according to Melloh. earthy spirit in worship," said Mel­
·-····························· 
. : mARDI GRAS : "What liturgy and worship and lob. "In worship, earthy people and·• . things are used in an unearthy way."
Fr. John Melloh presented the the Church's worship life is all about fourth lecture in the Catholic In­is really this second modality ofcon­He explained that such earthy
·: lmpottant Organizational meeting Fot : 
quit ry Series last night before a group sc'.r~ce, the receptive mode," said 
gifts as speech, reading, bread, and of about 60 in the Hayes-Healy Melfoh 
wine are the work of human beings,

• Anyone Interested In Working On • Auditorium. He continued into a discussion of 
and that these are a vital pan of the• • Melloh discussed "Catholicism, traditions in the Church, saying that Eucharist.
• mardi Gras 7:30 P.m. Tonight • the earthy religion," and said that a "recapturing of lost attitudes and a "Without these gifts which come Catholicism requires a new forgotten way of doing things is the forth from the earth, having been : Flannet Hall Pit Any Questions , : modality of conscience receptivity necessary agenda to recover the processed by a community, there is in order to perceive the meaning of worship life ofthe Church." no Eucharist." . : . Call Andy or Jim at 1067. : the liturgical event. During the lecture, Melloh made Melloh also called liturgy an 
Melloh distinguished between the several references to "Molarity," by "invitation," and that what the active mode and the receptive Michael Molinelli. A recent series of liturgy does is "it leaves us with the 
,.~~~~...~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ mode. The active mode "is charac­cartoons dealt with the topic of gnawing question, just like the terized by logic control, analysis, 
liturgical modernization and a parables do, 'What if it's true? How and prediction," while the receptive 
campus priest who was reluctant to do I have to change my life?' It is a
I Jht JDSP££forG£D£Rll -~ 


continuedfrom page 1 

dleman. I don't understand why the money was held by a middleman," he said. 
"l think 51,000 was too much, but I think the price was high because there was a middleman," said Takahashi. 
He said that if his former magazine interviewed the wife ofJapanese Prime Minister Zenko Suzuki, for ex­ample, no gift or money would be given. "We pay only 20,000-30,000 yen ( 590-5135) -such a paltry sum would be taken as an insult.'' 
There appears to be no generally fixed scale of pay­ments within the publishing industry. Amounts vary widely and are determined by what a particular publica­tion con!>iders appropriate or manageable. 
It is generally acknowledged by editors, however, that magazines engage in the practice of paying for in­terviews more than do newspapers. And Japanese television networks appear more inclined than other media to offer cash gifts to public officials for newsmak­ing purposes. 

mode "is one of association, surren-change.
I AComedy by Nickolai Gogol I 
IN ACTIVE SPORTS, 
~ November 13.14.J9.28.21 

! ;jill at8:00p.m. ~ A NICE REMINDER ~ Washingt011 Hall ~ 
OF THE LORD'S HELP 
~ Pnsented by 1M ;jill 
;jill Notre Dame Saint MarrSTheatre ~ Quality T-shirt of 50% poly.ISO% cotton with ~ Productd in coojuncti011 with silk-screened lettering and sun logo.
~ 
~ 1M lllOth anniversary ;jill Lt. Blue w/Navy or Sand w/Brown. Sizes: ~ li WashingtDn llall ~ S (34-36), M (38-40), L (42-44), XL (48-48). ;jill (jpe11ingllight~willreceive ~~ $7 OOplus $1 SO shipping 
Please send check 
~ one complimentay lidtt lor 

or money order to:
~ eadl regularly purcllastd ticket 

DIVINE ENERGY 
~ fwiftformatiOII.call Z8H176 

P.O. Box 6 11 ;jill $3.00 General admissi011 Oakland, CA 94603 ~ $2.ao Sludem,facalty,stalf 
Allow 4 weeks for delivery.
arul seniorcitizeiiS 






~ ltidtatb,li 
1iA1HR iUJ<iN& 
Open 6 days a week
Just North '417-DIXIEWAY f:: 
of across from We~ys 
Campus -i77-0734 
personalized Hair Desi~ns 
Piell Up 
And Enjoy 
r our Spirits Lower Priees! 


Cases 
NIKOFF


ANDRE' 
VODKA
Champagne 
Big 1.75 899 White, Pink, Cold Duck 750 mi. Liter Rhine, Burgundy 
Dlm!TI. 
1.75 Liter 
Y2 KEGS Ron Cruzado Gin. 

1.75 UTER 999 s••· 
Bud or Busch 3399 . Ught Rum 
.orDa--;,k 

Michelob 
3799 1621 South Bend Ave. call us for all your party needs! 233-4603 Roseland 272-2522 
story which when proclaimed takes possession of us. It grabs us and in­volves us and then, this story having taken possession and root in your soul, will change the way that you live." 
Concluded Melloh, "What liturgy is is an event. It is a symbolic action, and it invites us into a meaning. But we can catch the meaning only ifwe have this second modality of con­sciousness, namely receptivity." 
• • • u.s. 
continuedfrom page 1 
Brezhnev spelled· out his bargain­ing stance last month in an interview with the West German magazineDer Spiegel, claiming that Moscow had deployed the SS-20s to protect itself against already more powerful NATO forces. 
Phone 

books available 
Off-campus students may now pick up their new phone books (one per household) in the Student Union office. 
Choir 


presents concert 
The Saint Mary-Notr~ Dame Col­legiate Choir, Chamber Singers and Women's Choir will present a fall concert Thursday, in the little Theatre ofMoreau Hall. The concert will begin at 8 p.m. and is open to the public without charge. The Col­legiate Choir will perform a ..-ariety of works including "Agnus Dei" by Giovanni Pergolesi, "When jesus Wept" by William Billings, "Non Nobis Domine" by William Byrd and "Jesu Dulcis Memoria" by Tomas Luis de Victoria. The Choir will also perform Houston Bright's "I Hear a Voice A-Praying" and "All My Tri­als," arranged by Ed Lojeski. The Chamber Singers, a small mixed vo­cal ensemble, will give a preview of the music to be performed at the I Oth annual Madrigal Christmas Din­ners at Saint Mary's December 3-6. The program for the concert will in­clude Elizabethan madrigals as well as works by contemporary com­posers. 
I 
I 


Sports Brie/§ 
Thursday, November 19, 1981 -page 5 
~ 
Hy The Observer and The Associated Press 

Third time 
Purdue University Head Football Coach Jim Young 



B-Pcaptures l•hall flag 
announced yesterday he will resign at the end of the season to 
devote full time to his position as the university's associate athletic ByJANE HEALEY Kathy Adams on a four-yard run. She tion by Lcs Heiman fromthedirector. A 1 p.m. Sunday news conference in Mackey Arena has Sports Writer was then denied on the point-after four-yard line. The touchdownhn·n scheduled, and Purdue oftkials said Georgt' King, the Boiler­attempt to make the score 6-0. capped a 52-yard drive off the kickmakers' athletic director, will be present to announce plans for find­The women's interhall flag foot­Pasquerilla came on with a strong -return.

ing Young's successor. "After 26 years of coaching, my family and I ball season ended last night as offensive surge in the last two B.P. coach Marty Pallante statedhave decided to concentrate on athletic administration here at defending champion Breen-Philips minutes of the first half on runs by that they figured it would be a lOugh Purdue," Young !iaid. Before coming to Purdue, Young coached four beat the rookies of Pasq uerilla Ea.-;t Carla Cortes and deep passes game. Pallante held the opinion thatseasons at the University of Arizona, and charges recently surfaced 13-6. It's the third year in a row that thrown by quarterback Theresa P.E. was the best offensive team thatthat he allegedly kept a "slush fund" there for football expenses. He B.P. has captured the crown and it is Riley. But the goal line stance by B.P. 

they faced all season. "But ourdenies any wrong-doing in that case. -The Associated Press the eighteenth straight win for the held P.E. offon the two-yard line . 

defense was really the hero herechampions. With 14 minutes left in the game, tonight," Pallante commented. "OurIt looked like P.E. would be on the Adams scored her second touch-backfield of Kathy Adams andscoreboard first as Carla Cortes ex· down on a hand-off from quarter­

Notre Dame's Rowing Club wm hotd a man­
Martha Kultashy has done a greatploded on the kick off return 70 back Patty Talamo. The left sweepdatory practice for the men's varsity Saturday at 10 a.m. in the ACC job, too." The pair had to fill in foryards for a touchdown. But the was from 36 yards out. The point­Fieldhouse. Novices are welcome. -The Observer the injured Lee Richies, who led B.P. 

clever reverse play was called back after was good to make the score 13­in the early season with 10 touch­because ofclipping on the receiving,.. 0. It appeared as if B.P. might record downs in five games. 
team. a shut-out. 
For P.E. the highlight ofthe seasonThe first points of the game were Yet, P.E. would not give up. A 17­was this championship game.

The SeCOOd of two clinics on officiating swim meets Is 

scored minutes later by B.P. running yard run set up a touchdown recep­scheduled for this evening at the Rockne Memorial. The subject will be "Timing, Finish and Stroke Judging and Scoring." Interested swimming officials should report to Room 218 of the Rock at 7: I 5 
• • • Karcher
p.m. For more information, contact Coach Dennis Stark ( 4580) be­
tween 4 and 8 p.m. -The Observer 
The NO windsurfing club will be holding an 
organizational meeting tonight at 7:30p.m. in tht• Grace pit. All are welcome. All those who bought shirts must attend. Topics will in­cludt" a trip to Florida, lessons, and the viewing ofa short promotion­al film on Windsurfing in Hawaii. Refreshments will be served afterward for those who can stay. For more information, call Tim at I 782. -The Observer 
Big boat sailors with racing experience on medium to large size boatl> arc needed by the Notre Dame Sailing Club. Call Phil Reynolds at 233-3411 for more details-The Observer 
The SMC TurkeyTrotis scheduled for Monday at 4 
p.m. The thn·e-mile run is open to everyone in the Saint Mary's com· munity. First, second and third place prizes will he presented in each of these three categories: students, male staff/faculty and female Matf/faculty. Interested runners must register by bringing the S1 entry fee to the Angela Athletic Facility before Friday. For more in­formation, contact Mr. Dillon at4182 (SMC).-The Observer 
continuedfrom page 8 
skills," says Lichtenberg. "He works very hard to improve, and with his talent, Ken could become an out­standing quarterback for Notre Dame. Each day he gets a little bet· ter, but like most young quarter­backs, it takes awhile. 
"Right now, it is tough for Ken to get a lot of work with two good players ahead of him. Basically, Ken needs the work, the repetition, so he can develop more consistency." 
Karcher was offered scholarships by almost every major university, so a logical question would be why Notre Dame? 
"I felt that Notre Dame is the place to be a quarterback," replied Kar· cher. "It is the best university for combining academics and football, and I like Gerry. Everybody wants to be an NO quarterback. Since I thought I could play here, I decided to come::." 
As a freshman football player, Kar­cher has had a major adjustment in both school and football. However, the business major says he had very few problems. 
"When I first got here, I decided that I was going to do it. I think a lot of freshmen psych themselves out before they even set a foot on campus. I just decided I was going to catch on to the scheme of things as fast as I could. 
"Notre Dame is an easy place to adjust to. The whole campus has a friendly atmosphere to it. Whether it's football or walking around on campus or South Bend in general, this place seems like a big family." 
Karcher's confidence and talent are not limited to the gridiron. He won three letters playing first base and pitching for Shaler Area High School. As a junior, Karcher pitched two no-hitters while helping his team to 36 straight wins and the Pennsylvania state crown. 
During his senior year, the all­
around athlete captained h,is foot­
ball, baseball, and basketball teams. 
In basketball, Karcher started at guard for three years. 
In the spring, he will be playing both spring football and spring baseball. 
"While I am playing football in the spring, I'm going to play infield, so I don't usc two different arm motions. When football is over, I'll probably start pitching." 
This weekend Karcher will be able to visit the sights of his former conquests as the Glenshaw, Penn., native will be accompanying the team to Penn State. 
"It should be a lot of fun. I only live two and a half hours away and a Jot of my friends will be there, so I hope to play." 
In a few years, Karcher believes he will not only be hoping to play, but starting. 
"I really believe that I have a good • shot at being the Notre Dame quar­terback. Right now I'm learning a lot behind Blair (Kiel) and Timmy (Koegel). I feel, in my mind, that I will be the starting quarterback for Notre Dame in a ft. N year~· " 


The Observer wtll accept classtheds Mon­day through Friday. 10 a.m. to 4 30 p.m lfowever. classtfteds to appear tn the next tssue must be recetved by 3 p.m. the busmess day pnor to tnsertton. All classifteds must be prepatd. etther tn person or through the mat I

Classifieds 
NOTICES 

USED BOOK SHOP HOURS WED' SAT. SUN 9·7 CASPERSON. 1303 BUCHANAN RD .. NILES. 
USED & OUT·PRINT BOOKS bought, sold, searched. ERASMUS BOOKS. Tues-Sunday.12·6. 1027E. Wayne(One block south of Eddy· Jefferson 1ntersec· t1on1 
NEED REPAIRS DONE ON YOUR CAR? 5th year MECHANICAL ENGINEER WILL DO ENGINE. BODY, and TUNE-UP WORK for MUCH LOWER COSTS than a serviCe stauon can offer. For FREE ES· TIMATES-Call M1ke 289-7414. 
tuggters club meelsthurlldays 7:oo by the ICe nnk 1n the ACC 
. ­

10 ·A splendid ume 11 guaranteed for atr· 4B Friday 

LOST/FOUND 

LOST One Gold Bracelet on Saturday before or dunng the Georgia Tech game. Most likely lost on Green F~eld during the Dillon Hall tallgarter near the backstop across from SeniOr Bar. It found. Please call MIChael 233-2969 
LOST: WOMENS CLASS RING ON WED. NOV 5 AROUND THE ACC, TEN· NIS COURTS AND SOCCER FIELD. SILVER, NAVY BLUE STONE,CDC INI· TIALS ENGRAVED INSIDE PLEASE, IF YOU'VE FOUND IT COULD YOU CALL CYNOIE AT 2778256. THANX 
LOST: 1 NEW GREEN NOTRE DAME JACKET W/GOLD LETIERING ON BACK. SIZE MEDIUM. BOUGHT IN N.D. BOOKSTORE LOST WEDNESDAY. NOV. 11, BETWEEN 5 AND 6 P.M. IN SOUTH DINING HALL. MAY HAVE BEEN MISTAKEN FOR YOUR OWN. PLEASE CHECK. CALLJULLE AT 3857 
lost:back pack. tan and blue. Made by WyEast, Inc. call Vince x1238 
LOST: Canon Camera Saturday 11 n in 
· v1clnty of CCE. Bndgefs, Kmg s Cellar. Call287-1705 illound please. Thanks. 
LOST: A WMe Gold Pearl Necklace. Has Great Sentimental Value I BIG REWARD if found Call 2843. 
............................................................... LOST: 1981 DESMET JESUIT HIGH CLASS RING. GOLD WITH INITIALS JMD. IF FOUND PLEASE CONTACT JOHN AT 8291. 

Fo.uNo:··· 1 bt~e & ~j;,;~ Ho.it..iiiii KAZOO. It you want it back. cough up one buck lor you know what to you know whO. 
REWARD F"O"ii RETURN OF PEARL· DIAMOND RING LOST NOV. 13 BE· TWEEN HOWARD AND FARLEY PLEASE CALL KATIE x6723 
Fout..io:··L;.;9~· ~~;;;~;·~i.srAMPs.it..i 
B.A. Building on 11/16Call Steve at 3121 tocla1m. 
....... ................................... . LOST: KEYS ON GREEN AND WHITE C SHAPED RING BETWEEN C2 LOT AND LIBRARY. APPROX 8 KEYS CALL IRENE 272·4453 
···~-~ ...:·· 


WANTED 

need ride to Cleveland for Thanksg1v1ng Call John at 8450 
NEED A RIDE TO NORTH JERSEY FRIDAY. NOV 20. RIGHT OFF ROUTE 80 (DENVILLE). CAN LEAVE AT 2:00 PM. CALL MIKE AT 1181. WILL SHARE THE USUAL 
NEED RIDE TO PENN · STATE DESPERATELY FOR GAME. CALL STEVE 8762 OR 8761 
PITISBUROH BUS TICKET -FOR SALE AT DISCOUNT RATE! DON"T SIGN UP TILL YOU CALL ME FIRST! LEANNE 7076 
DESPERATELY NEED AIDE TO PENN STATE will waste DRUGS and MONEY on SUICIDE ill don't get there I otherwise. I am willing to share. CALL BOB 1428 
4EED PENN STATE TIXS CALL JIM· 1742 
NEED ONE WAY AIDE TO PENN STATE. PLEASE CALL KATE AT 2897. 
HELP! Must have need of TOTAL RIDE to OHIO, TOLEDO. 8619 
Translated: 
HELP! NEED RIDE to TOLEDO, Ohio over T-g1v1ng break. Call86 t 9 
Need nde to D.C. or thereabouts lor Thanksgiving. Will share usuals. Please call Pete 3049 
Ride needed to Long Island area lor Thanksgiving. Can leave as early as Mon· day afternoon. Will share usual. Call Paul at 1100. 
I need a ride lor two to Ch1cago on Thursday, Nov. 26 (Turkey day) Will share the usual It you can help me out call Tom at 8771 
Need ride to lndt.napolla for Turkey Oay Paul-2277 
Alders Wanted to Denver or west on 1·80 leave Tues. afternoon. back Mon nile. call3476 
I need nders to PITTSBURGH who can leave on Tues.. 11/24. Call Bob 3458. 
RIDERS NEEDED TO BOSTON FOR OCTOBER BREAK. CALL GERARD OR CHUCK, 8192. 
Need nde to Buffalo lor Thanksgiving. Call Kevin at3575 
Need 2 ndes to and from Champagne II for this weekend. Call Joe Montana at 3419 
NEED RIDERS TO IDAHO·XMAS BREAK, 1-WAY. CALL272·5239. 
..................-:............................... ''"' RIDERS NEEDED TO DOWNTOWN CHICAGO, DROPOFF AT UNION STA· TION. LEAVING WEDNESDAY NOON. CALL PAUL 8509. 
r FoR sALE 1 
l 
For sale· 73 red VW Beetle, excellent con­dition. 1 owner 60,000 mites, new t~res, call234·0620 afier 5:30p.m. 


TICKETS 

Penn St. llcket wanted please call Donna at6771 
Need tiX lor Penn State. Call Stan. 3006 or 3008. 
·NEED PENN STATE TIX NOWI2 GA"s or student uckets/ CALL JOHN AT 
X1947/ 
ROLLING STONES TIX FOR SALE CALL KEITH 3702 
STONES TIX FOR SALE call Steve x1416 
FoR sALE 2;;~~~ si~i~ i;~i.~~~: c~i, 
3226. 
DON'T WAIT UNTIL THE LAST SECOND. IF YOU DON'T HAVE A AIDE TO THE PENN STATE GAME, SELL ME YOUR TICKETS. MIKE at 8657 
,h~~~ ;,·13:.\·~ i~; p~~~ si~~~-~~ ~~ii. c~ii 
Tnsh 41·4875. 
.•....... . ·······················•········ Two GA basketball tiCkets lor sate. Call 41·4871 
For sale: 4 Miami GA's ph. 1205 
............................................................ 
Need 2 tix for Fn. nile ( 11·20) basketball 
game. Call 272-5239. 

WANTED·Fourtlckets. preferably togeth· er. to the NO-penn st-massacare. Call Jlm277·5150. 
I 


PERSONALS 
LT_H_E_ZA_H_M_C_O_F_F_E_E_H_O_U_S_E_IS-0-PEN 
EVERY THURSDAY FOR YOUR EXIS. TENTIAL PLEASURE. OFFERING THE FINEST IN UVE ENTERTAINMENT, COFFEE, TEA, HOMEMADE DONUTS, FREE POPCORN AND PAT GALLAG­HER. COME DOWN AND SEE IF OUR PROFESSIONAL CONYER· SATIONAUSTS ARE PAID ENOUGH. 9-12 EVERY THURSDAY NIGHT, ZAHM BASEMENT .. 
ACORN will have a represetat1ve 1n the Volunteer ServiCe Office. 1.5 LaFortune, on Thurs. Nov.19. All are welcome to at­tend the group 1nformat1onat meeting at 
1:00 or JUSt drop by afier that to talk to Bruce McAllister. 
10 FAT GIRLS TAKE HEART! League of Fat IS sponsonng a Fat-Off-·· Friday,Nov.20 at the LaFortune Ballroom I 
GIGANTIC PODS FROM OUTER SPACE/ Need Penn State Tix for lood/2 lix··Ga's or Student Call Pod no.1 x1947 
SHOW YOUR LADY YOU CARE BEFORE THE CHRISTMAS BREAK WITH A MONTH OF FLOWERS. A BOU· OUET OF FLOWERS EVERY WEDNES· DAY FOR 4 WEEKS... DELIVEREDIII WEDNESDAYS FLOWERS 289·1211. 
H E L P ! Two guys need ride to NYCINJ/Ph1l area lor T -Giving. Can leave TUES. CALL 6802 I ill 
M1ssing...One gray mouse, small size, answers to Steve... if found contact · Rita 41·5145. 
CONGRATULATIONS STANFORD SOCCER TEAM IIIII Soccer no.1 in "81. 
PART OR FULL TIME WORK FROM HOME. PROCESSING MAIL OR TYPING. EXPERIENCE UNNECES· SARY. EXCELLENT INCOME POTEN· TIAL INFORMATION, SEND STAMPED. SELF-ADDRESSED EN· VELOPE P 0 BOX 44585-ND LOS OLIVOS STA .. PHOENIX. AZ 85064. 
CURSE YOU RED BARONIII AFROTC 
SNOOPY'" SHIRTS NOW ON SALE ORDER YOURS BY THIS FRIDAY AT THE ROTC BUILDING 
MOOOOOQOOOOOIIII!IIIII RAWHIDE ... 
Lisa: Do you want your meat between buns? Onion Breath 
Richard Grimaldi · here is your personal. A letter is on the way. A fellow dnnker of primordial soup. I hear music 1n the back· ground) 
ATIENTION: Need two (2) attractive females for confidential. professional cntique. Aeq1ure semi-nude and nude posing; no publiCation. Contact R.L Studios at 283-6842 for Interview. 
Ask not what 4B can do lor you. Ask what you can do tbr 4B FRIDAY 
"I am the Uzard King. I can do Any· thing" Meet the King--48 Frldayl 
TEXAS CLUB 1 DALLAS XMAS BUS $150. FOR INFO CALL 1051 or 1103by 11/242T·SHIATS MUST BE PICKED UP IN 828 FLANNER BY 11/2411 
Dedicted to those 10 (IO"s) who made 153 so spec1aL First, spec1al thanks to SOH, Mco·s Arby"s. Save the caramels! Can we fit all 20 on a VIbrating bed? Why is the fondue smoking? 155? Who cares, we're dead I How did I get stuck between the bed and the wall? Leis or lays? Did you get a second wind? But your Jacket was stnpedl Doesn·t Dillon have parietals? Hey Mr ROTC··Aiease, will yal Weill! this IS what steeping wrth a lady is like... Wrth Love, THE WILD FROSH OF WALSH. 
-. 

r--------~-­
---------------~-----­
~ .... The Observer Thursday, November 19, 1981 -page6 
t 
' 
~ 
I 
I I r 
I 

NOV. 20, 21 &22 {FRI., SAT., SUN.) 
FROM 11:00 A.M. TO 9:00 P.M. 

MANUFACTURERS EXHIBITING FROM ALL OVER THE WORLD 



$1I 000°0 STEREO GI VEA wA 
FREE 'T' SHIRTS &GIFTS AT 


DOWNTOWN SOUTH BEND SPONSORED BY AUDIO SOUNDS &VIDEO SHACK 
---~­

Tame The Lions with Fighting Irish 



Tonight 
Thursday, November 19, 1981-page 7 
..r 
See the 

OZARK MOUNTAIN DAREDEVILS LIVE 
Friday Night at Stepan Center 
SHOW STARTS AFTER THE BASKETBALL GAME 

------~-­

Thursday, November 19, 1981 -page 8
SI>orts 
To Olympics? 

Reynolds finds smooth sailing 
> 


Ken Karcher .. .cool underfire. (photo by Cheryl Ertelt) 
Ken Karcher waits for ·chance at QB spot 
By ED KONRADY . 
Wrl "When I first saw htm, I was very
S;ports ter . d . h K , b.l.
tmpresse wtt en s a 1 tty to pass and run," recalls Lictenberg.
What qualities does one look for "However, what Coach Faust and Iin a quarterback? 
liked the most about him was his at­The you"ng man must possess a titude, the confidence he had on therifle arm, sure hands, quickness in field, and how he presented himselfboth feet and mind, and a body as a leader. It was obvious that Kenstrong enough to accept the physi­had the leadership qualities that wecal punishment inherant in his posi­were looking for."
tion. 

Karcher came to Notre DameBut these are qualities that with blue-chip credentials. He washundreds of would-be quarterbacks named to the Parade All-Americahave. What separates the phenom squad in 1980. His high schoolfrom the failure? 
statisics include 2,479 yards passing When Gerry Faust and Assistant and 34 touchdown passes.
Coach Tom Uchtenberg decided to Karcher is now the third-stringrecruit one quarterback, they may quarterback for the Irish, and so farhave answered the question. 
the coaches arc pleased with hisOut ofall the possible young men development.
Faust could have decided on, he "Ken is an excellent technicianchose ~en Karcher. The qualtity that a.1d he has the necessary running
Faust wanted was leadership. There is no doubt that he got it. See KARCHER, page 5 
While the names Bob Crable and John Paxson carry 
proud tags for the University as competitors who are 
among the best in their athletic field in America, anoth­
er name is quite often overlooked since the sport of 
sailing is not exactly one that grabs headlines. 

A relaxed, laid back and winningattitude is what 
characterizes Notre Dame's sailing club. 

And no one better epitomizes that charachterization 
better than fifth year engineering major, Phil Reynolds. 
On October 1 7 of this year, Reynolds competed In 
the "Midwest Single-Handed Championships" at 
Northwestern University. The top three finishers would 
go on to represent the Midwest in the 1 5 field nationals 
to be held on Nov. 9 at Vancouver, Canada. Reynolds 
finished in 4th place out of the 18 participants at 
Norhtwestem leading him to embark on another form 
of"sailing." 

"After that meet I decided to put the boat away 
awhile and head on down to Corby's. There was a slight 
disappointment in having just barely missed the nation­
als," recalls Reynolds. 

Three days before the nationals, however, Reynolds 
received a call informing him that the top finisher at the 
Midwest meet would be unable to compete in the na­
tionals because ofa sustained injury. 

For Reynolds, though, it was just another honor that 
has become quite typical ofhis career as he has proudly 
followed successfully the footsteps of his brother 
"Buzzy," an all-American sailor at Notre Dame in 1976 
and near-miss qualifier for the 1980 Olympic squad. 
Among the awards that the younger Reynolds has 
received includes a third place finish in the 1976 
"National Junior Championships" in the 12-foot pen­
guin boats. In the same year he also placed third in the 
"Mid-Atlantic Youth Championships" in the one-man 
laser boats. 

Since his entrance into Notre Dame in 1977, one im­
pressive feat after another has piled up. In the 1979 
"Timmee Angsten Memorial Regatta," (one of the lar­
gest regattas in America) Reynolds finished fourth in 
the A-division of the race and first among teams from 
the Midwest. Come 1980 he would place third in the 
"Midwest Dingy Championships" which qualified 
Notre Dame as a representativve in the team nationals. 
He would also finish first out of 21 participants in the 
"Midwest Collegiate Single-Handed Championships" 
the same year. 

Finally, besides his qualifying for the nationals in 
1981, Reynolds placed first in both the spring and fall 
regattas at Indianapolis this year, while also placing 
tenth out of 105 sailors at the "Canadian Nationals" 
over the summer. 

Thus, his eighth place finish out of 1 5 competitors at Vancouver may not sound as glamorous as his perfor­. mances ofthe past, but, in essence, it may have been his 
greatest performance. 


Explains Reynolds, "Overall, I was pretty happy with my performance considering that I had hardly any time at all to prepare for it. There were also six all-Americans. a couple ofNorth American champions and past Olym­pic representatives competing in the meet, so I can't be too disappointed." 
In addition, Reynolds cites how sailors at top schools ofthe program from whence they came practice up to five or six hours a day with the best of facilities. In reference to the suitability for racing at St. Joseph's Lake at Notre Dame, members ofthe club have come to call it "the puddle." 
Nevertheless, Reynolds, who completes his studies in mechanical engineering this December, has been more than happy with his nine semesters at Notre Dame. 
"I like the idea ofsailing being offered as a club sport where we can run our own operations on when and how long you want to practice, whereas at schools where it's offered as a varsity sport you don't have that freedom," he says. "Yet we have had more than our share of top performances throughout the country where we have been ranked in the top twenty. 
"I was seriously considering going to the Naval Academy," he continues, "but I didn't want to put up with all that garbage of rules and regulations. Here I'm able to take the spirit ofNotre Dame with me whenever we travel as a team, and also have a social life" -which he reminds us is what you make it. 
While the Barnegat, N.J., native sees sailing as his hob­by rather than a profession, Reynolds does leave room for more goals -including the 1984 Olympics. 
And although that goal will be a little harder to attain, one should not underestimate Reynolds. He has made quite a few difficult things at Notre Dame seem like smooth sailing. 
SAILING -While Reynolds is the star, the team itself has done its fair share in helping the team to the "Timmee Angsten Memorial Regatta" which will be run over Thanksgiving break. The team qualified by finish­ing second out of 6 teams at Ann Arbor. Both the A­division and B-division finished second in their races. The A-divison was led hy skipper Reynolds and· "my very hard working and dedicated crew" Carol Silva The B-division alternated ].B. Kuppe and Bob Hannau at skipper while Dawn Barkkari served as the crew. 
Upsurging Ir-ish take on Pater-no, Lions 
The sign ofa good football team is one that gets stronger as the game goes on. We think we showed the marks ofa good football team last week against Air Force. When Air Force made it close early in the fourth quarter, our players and coaches responded to the·challenge. They did not panic. 
The most imprcssi~ing was the way we exploded in the fourth quarter. Our offensive line really got down to business after Air Force cut the score to 14-7. After that touchdown, the offense went 71 yards on four plays and 62 yards on nine plays on its next two possessions to score. 
Air Force Coach Ken Hatfield did an excellent job getting his team ready for the game. The Falcons had two weeks off to prepare, and their game plan was excellent. And their saf­tey,JohnnyJackson, who had nineteen·tackles, proved to me that he is one of the great ones in the nation at the position. 
Offensively, the Falcons took split end Joe Howard away from us with double coverage and they took away our outside sweep. They forced us to make adjustments in both areas. Without Howard, we had to go to the wingback more, and our wingbacks, especially Greg Bell,-came up with some big plays. 
With the outside sweep shut off, We went to our inside game and it was effective. On the touchdown drive that made it 21-7, Phil Carter had a great run inside of 43 yards and finished with 156 yards on 27 carries. 
Even though he only made one reception, Howard still helped us with his downfield blocking, and our fullbacks ­John Sweeney, Larry Moriarty and Mark Brooks-all played well. We also thought Tim Koegel came through when start­ing quarterback Blair Kiel had to leave the game. 
Blair, who was in the hospital early last week with the flu, 
was still weak during the game, and the high altitude com­
pounded his problems. His 31-yard scramble in the first quar­
ter that set up our first score took a lot out of him, but he 
hung in there. 

When you play in that altitude, there is a noticeable dif-

in your recovery time and )'OU are not used to it, it can be troublesome. That is why we called a timeout at the start of the fourth quarter during Air Force's long touchdown drive. 
Otherwise, our defense played well. We got some solid performances from linebacker Mark Zavagnin, who made seven tackles and had an interception, and defensive end Tony Belden, who had six stops, two for losses. Tony, our special teams' captain, was playing because ofan injury toJon Autry. 
We were also pleased with the performances oflinebacker Joe Bars, defensive end Mike Gann and cornerback Chris Brown. Bars had six tackles after replacing Rick Naylor, who left in the first quarter with a thigh bruise. Naylor had started in place ofJoe Rudzinski, who was left home to recover from some minor injuries. 
Gann, who hails from the Denver suburb of Lakewood, replaced Kevin Griffith in the second quarter whin Griffith suffered a knee bruise. Mike finished with four tackles, the same as Brown, who took over for John Krimm when Krimm became ill with the flu Friday. 
Fortunately, none ofthe injuries or illnesses are serious. 

A big moment for all of us was when middle linebacker Bob Crable made the tackle in the first quarter that broke Bob Golic's career record for tackles. I had asked Coach Hat­field if we could have the ball that was being used when Bob made the tackle, and after the game, we gave it to him. That really meant a great deal to Bob and his teammates. 
We think we have made great strides the last four weeks, and we now have an excellent opportunity to find out how good a team we really are. Despite its loss to Alabama last Saturday, Penn State still is one of the great teams in the country. 
When the topic of Penn State comes up, you naturally think about all the great linebackers and running backs the school has produced over the years. But mostly, you think about the man who has headed the program. Coach Joe Paterno is one of the great coaches and gentlemen in the profession. We are excited that Saturday's game at University Park will be the first ofa long series betwen our two univer­sities. 
This season, Coach Paterno once again has an outstanding running back in junior Curt Warner, who ranked fourth among college rushers last weeek despite some injury problems. His backup, sophomore Jon Williams, is a good one too. 
The Nittany Lions also have a fine pa~sing attack headed by sophomore Tod Blackledge, who was lOth in the NCAA statistics prior to last Saturday. He has an excellent group of receivers in split end Gregg Garrity, tight end Mile McClos­key and flanker Kenny Jackson. 
But what makes Penn State go is its offensive line. Coach Paterno has a great two-guard tandem in Sean Farrell and Mike Munchak. CenterJim Romano is also excellent. 
Defensively, Penn State plays with tenacity, and once again, the linebacking corps is solid and experienced. All three linebackers -Chet Parlavecchio. Ed Pryts and Matt Bradley -are seniors. And we'll be facing another outstand­ing safety in sophomore Mark Robinson. 
Penn State also has a solid kicking game with punter Ralph Giacomarro, who is averaging 44.7 yards a kick, and placekicker Brian Franco, who has kicked 12 field goals this 
season. 
The Nittany Lions will certainly present several challenges to our football team. We hope the reverse is true. 



