Black and white -page 6
' 

VOL XVI, NO. 72 

Federal employment 

Reagan lifts ban on controllers 
Ann Weber and Peggy Walsh toil over the con· troversial course evaluation sheets for a chemistry class. Both students and teachers have 
Campus Life Council passes keg proposal 
By KELLI FLINT 

l:'xeculir'e :Veu•s Editor 
A resolution allowing the usc of kegs in hall party rooms was passed by the Campus Life: Council ( CLC) yesterday. 
The resolution would allow kegs in party rooms tilr an experimental pt·riod during whkh hall rectors and staffs will monitor tht· feasibility of kegs on t·ampus. 
If Fr. Van Wolvlcar ( Vicc­

Prt·sillent for Student Affairs) ac· n·pts the resolution, the experiment will take plat·c during tht· t1rst half of the spring semester, act·ording to Cl.C secretary Paul Callahan. Cal· laban adtkd that the resolution has bt-en amt·ndcd since passage by the IIPC and tht· Student Senate. at the request of tht· rectors. "Tht· rt·ctors wt·rc basically tilr th~· proposal. hut wanted stricter control over kegs in tht· party room.'' Callahan said. "They recommt·nded st·ven amend­
mcnts to tht' resolution. all of which were acceptabk to the authors of the keg proposal." 
Some actions the amendments stipulate include: contlncment of beer to kt'gs. with no additional bottle or cans; the hall rector shall confer with the group hosting a partv to determine the numbt-r of kegs allowable; refrigeration in hall party rooms to preserve and secure kt:gs after a party for future usc; beer must he served in glasses or cups. 
Lloyd Burke. Flanncr Hall Prcsi­dt·nt. noted at the meeting that kegs could improve socialization on campus. emphasizing that ultimate rt·sponsibility tilr the success of kegs on campus depends upon each stu­dent. 
In other business. tht· CLC en­dorsed the recent proposal t·xtending registration to two days in the fall scmcstt-r. Studt·nt Body 
See KEGS, page 3 

THURSDAY, DECEMBER 10, 1981
an .r1oiepende-m student ne-wspaper servmg nmre dame and sainr mary's 
questioned the validi~V ofthe results ofthese tests. (Photo byjohn Macor) 
WASHINGTON (AP)-Pn:sident Reagan, citing a "Tradition that in­dividuals deserve to be treatt;d with compassion.'" opened the door yes­terday for I I, 500 fired air traffic controllers to again seck federal jobs -but not in the flight towers. 
"I do not believe that those who forfeited their jobs as controllers should be foreclosed from other federal employment," Reagan said as ht· lifted a three-year federal hiring ban against tht· controllers who launched an illegal strike last August. 

Transportation Secretary Drew Lewis told reporters that none ofthe dismisst·d I 1,';00 individuals would he accepted at the Federal Aviation Administration, where they previously worked. 
lie acknowledged, ironkally, that , some ofthe tired workers eventually might work as military controllers. The FAA has pkked up some of the slack in its depleted workforce by borrowing from the military. 
Ft·dcral personnd officers said the former controllers' job applications would receive the same treatment as those of any other person, but pen­sion and other bcnetlts would be carried over from the time they went on strike. 
Ikcause of employee reductions across much of the federal govern­ment, there was a question, however, as to how many jobs would be available especially at anywhere ncar the pay levels ­S22,500 to S49,800 a year -tht· controllers once commanded at the FAA. 
Donald Devine, director of the Office of Personnel Management, in­dkatc:d many of the former control­lers might be hired by the Defense Department where, he said, 20,000 additional civilian jobs arc: expected to open. 
But there art· few federal jobs availabk elsewhere. The normal government attrition rate of about 
I 0 percent outside the Defense Dt'partmcnt and Postal Servil-e has bt·cn largely countered by Reagan's budgt't cuts, acknowkdgcd John Scholzen, a spokesman at the Office of Personnel Managemt'nt. 
See REAGAN, page 4 



Provost addresses discrifllination case 
Editor's note: Prm'f>St Timothy O'.'Heam released the follml'ing statement to tbe fact~lt)' in the December II issue of /be Notre Dame Report commenting on tll'o sex discrimination lau•suits recent­~}' settled bJ' tbe Uni1•ersi~)'. 
Two lawsuits have bc:t'n pending in the United States District Court in South Bt'nd since 1978 claiming sex discrimination by the University with respect to tenure, promotions, and other decisions involving our faculty. Although the University en­tered into an out-ot~court settle­ment of these lawsuits several months ago, it was prohibited, along with other parties, from comment­ing upon the: case until final judicial approval. This approval has now come. I am therefore writing to advise you of what we did and why 
we did it so we may finally bring this matter to a close. 
The settlement agreement ack­nowledges that there has been no determination that the University has violated any law or regulation on discrimination. and the University denies any such violation of the law. 
Then why did the University choose to Settle? First, because: of the uncertain outt·omc of any class action lawsuit. particularly one: of this magnitude involving decisions made in an acadcmk context and based on prudt•ntial judgements. 
Second, because of the nature of precedents at Brown University and the University of Minnesota. The consent decree at .\1innc:sota was in­itiated after eleven weeks of trial. It is fifty-one pages long. In it a quota for women faculty is established for the Chemistry Departmenr; an automatic preference for women is established across the University,; a 
special Master of the Court has juris­diction over past and future: dis­crimination claims, at least until 1989. and so on. Tbird, lkt·ausc of a conviction that the disruption of academk lift· and divisivt·ncss as­sociated with this litigation had gone on long enough. A trial, with all the complexities hidden in ap­proximately I00,000 pages of evidence, would have continued ti>r weeks and perhaps months. Win or lose, the toll would have been enor­mous. Fourth, bt"causc contldcntial letters and evaluations would have been made publk, resulting in im­measurable erosion to the integrity of the system of peer review. Final­~)', because heightened attention in a court of law would have st·t us back in the very thing we arc trying to ac­complish -attracting more women 
to the University. The time had come to bring this litigation to an t'nd. We arrived at two separate agreements. As a part of these agree­ments: 
Dolores Frese has been promoted to associate professor with tenure, Josephine Ford to professor; 
The University will make a good faith effort, consistent with its stan­dards of excellence, to renew, promote, and tt'nurc women faculty at the same rate as men; 
A committee consisting of David Lc:cgc: and Charles Wilber on our faculty, and Ann Ida Gannon of Mun­delein College, has been established to consider appeals of class mem­bers desiring a review of denials of 
contract renewals or tenure be­tween January I, 1977 and Decem­ber I, 1980; the comittc:c is empowered to determine whether there exists t'Vidence of sex dis-
See O'MEARA, page 4 

Fulbright scholarship 
Alutnni defend progratn 
ByJIM ADAMS 
AssociatedPress 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Past recipients of Fulbright scholarships arc riding to the rescue of the prestigious award and other cultural exchange programs facing President Rt·agan's budget ax. So far, they have made some progress in nmvincing Congress. 
Fulbright alumni and other scholars argue that the exchange programs are a good way to educate future foreign leaders about America. 
An appropriation bill now before the St'natc would not only restore all the cuts, but also would add an extra S9 million for the Fulbright scholarships and direct the administation to 
----------------------------~'1 
spend  the  
money.  A  bill  
restoring  the  

cuts has already passed the 

House. 
Reagan, however, has vowed to make his cuts stick. 
Congressional sources say they're getting no signals on 
whether the administration is willing to exempt the ex­
change program from the cuts. 
In response to Reagan's fall dirt'ctivt' for every federal 
agency to chop 12 percent from its budget, the Interna­
tional Communications Agt'ncy wants to cut its cultural 
exchange program and not the Voice of America and 
other ICA broadcast operations. 
ICA spokesman Henry Ryan said his agency hopes Congress and the administration will prevent the cuts from being made. But should ICA reductions occur, he said, the agency has decided they must come in ex­change programs. 
ICA has proposed cutting 525.6 million from the 548 million planned for scholarship programs and 51 I. 5 million from the S19.H million for visitor exchange programs. 
The: biggest single cut would slash S 19.8 million from the S41.9 million now tickett·d fi>r the Fulbrights. 
Named for formt'r Sen. ). William Fulbright, the scholarships have brought about 85,000 studt•nts from other countries to the United States sinl·e World War II and have sent about 45,000 Americans abroad to study. 
The Arkansas Democrat, who was chairman of the 

Senate Foreign Relations Committee for many years, 
says the program gives foreign students, many of whom 
become leaders, an understanding of America. And he 
once tcstitled that he doubts the late President Lyndon 
Johnson would have escalated the Vietnam War had 
Johnson been a Fulbright alumni and known more 
about Asia. 
"If he had lived in Asia for a year under this program, 

he would not have engaged in that conflkt, I believe," 
Fulbright told a House committee three years ago. "This 
t·an apply to anybody in a powerful position. I think it's 
one of the reasons there is so much sympathy at'ld un­
dt'rstanding abroad for this country.' 
Rep. Howard Wolpc, D-Mich., chairman ofthe House Africa subcommittee, said during a House debate that the cuts will close down virtually all Fulbright programs in Africa that have "paid off with the creation of a moderatt' pro-Western governmt'nt in Zimbabwe." 
Wolpc said tlve of Zimbabwe's I 5 Cabinet members arc Fulbright alumni, as arc 25 other Zimbabwe offi­cials. 

News Brie./.§ -page 2 
Thursday, December 10, 1981 
~~~~==~~============================~ 
by The Oh.rerl'er·and Thr: A.rrociated Pre.u 
The House approved 233 to t73 yesterday a bill 
which hands industry the authority to start billing consumers for a 
yet unbuilt S43-billion pipeline to bring Alaska natural gas to the 
lower 48 states, the largest private construction project in history. 
But the measure, already pao;sed by the Senate, still faced an obstacle 
before going to the White House. A senate opponent threatened to 
filibuster the usual formality ofputting the House measure under the 
Senate bill's title, even though both bills arc identical. The legislative 
package waives existing antitrust and pricing laws to allow con· 
sumers to be billed for the pipeline before it is completed, a step which industry says is critical to attracting the massive capital needed for construction. The line would virtually dwarfthe existing trans-Alaska oil pipeline. Consumer advocate Ralph Nader charged after the vote that the Democratic Party had "sold its soul" to the oil companies by approving the proposal. And Sen. Howard Metzen­baum, D-Ohio, who led Senate opposition on consumer grounds, said he has notified the leadership he would attempt to block the bill from going to the White House. Should the obstacle posed by Met­zenbaum be overcome, President Reagan is expected to sign the 
measure. The House passed the legislation 233-177 to grant pricing 
concessions to companies building the pipeline, which would be the 
largest private construction project in world history. -AP 
Moslem zealots who commandeered a Libyan jetliner freed their 35 hostages and surrendered early yesterday after a 

7.500-mile hijack ordeal that had taken the plane to Beirut for the third time in as many days, airport officials said. Officials said some of the passengers left the plane after the hijackers got off. Lebanon's state radio reported that the Libyan Arab Airlines Boeing 727 would fly to Larnaca, Cyprus, with the rest of the former hostages, who included 27 passengers and eight crew members. The surrender came after more than five hours of negotiations punctuated by bursts of machinegun fire from the airplane as the hijack team fired warning shots to keep back security forces surrounding the airplane. Officials said there were five heavily armed hijackers on the plane, and they surrendered at 5:30 p.m. yesterday. The (Jfficials said the hijackers gave themselves up to troops ofSyria's peacekeepingforce, sent to enforce a truce after Lebanon's 1975-76 civil war, which had ringed the aircraft along with units of the Lebanese army when it touched down and taxied to the end of the runway. The radio said two buses were sent to the plane for the pao;sengers who decided to 
remain in Beirut. The hijackers seized the aircraft to ba demand for an investigation ofthe disappearance oftheir Shiite Mos­lem leader at the end ofa trip to Libya three years ago. -AP 
A class action suit seeking a permanent court order 
against illegal strip searches at the Indiana State Prison was filed yes­
terday at U.S. District Court in SOI,tth Bend. The suit, filed by two 
South Bend attorneys on behalf of four individual plaintiffs, alleges 
that that as many as 144 people may have been illegally strip 
searched at the prison in December 1979. AttorneysJohn Hamilton 
and Timothy Hartzer said the Indiana Department ofCorrection vi­
olated several constitutional rights of four plaintiffs who were then 
either members or affiliated with volunteer organizations and who 
were visiting prisoners. Hamilton said the plaintiffs have provided 
information indicating that dozens of other persons were illegally 
searched, first sniffed by dogs and then checked by prison personnel. The strip searches were conducted during a period when prison security guards suspected visitors of smuggling drugs to prisoners, the attorney said. -AP 
Tokyo police said more than 7,000 demonstrators waving red banners yesterday protested plans to construct a nuclear power plant in northernJapan. According to published reports, most villagers favor the construction ofthe plant because of the revenues it would bring to the the poor and isolated fishing community of Tomari. Taxes and compensations would reach about 546 million, according to reports. -AP 
Analysts predicted yesterday that inflation at the wholesale level would close out the year at around 7 percent, the slowest clip since 1977, after the government reported November's increase at a moderate 6.3 percent annual pace. That marked the eighth consecutive month that inflation at the wholesale level held beneath double digits. One independent economist called it "very good news" which signals that "we're on a new plateau." The Labor 
Department's official barometer, the Producer Price Index for 
finished goods -went up a seasonally adjusted 0. 5 percent in 
November, compared with the 0.6 percent advance in October. Bar­
ring any unforeseen shocks, the rate for all of 1981 should come in 
well under the li.H percent for 19HO and not far off the 6.9 percent 
tiJr 1977, analysts said. It was 12.8 percent in 1979 and 9.2 percent in 
I97H. -AP 
Israel's army this week held its tast mititary exercises in the Sinai Desert beti>re the area is turned over to Egypt in April. the military command said yesterday. The maneuvers involved armored units. infantry, engineers, artillery and air force planes and attack helicopters, a spokesman said. He refused to say how many troops were involved in the exercise. which also included portions of Is­rael's southern Negev Desert. Israel ha<;·agreed in the Camp David 
accords to withdraw from the land it captured from Egypt in the 
I967 Middle East war. -AP 
A few flurries this morning, thc:n partly sunny. High in the low 30s. Partly cloudy and cold tonight. Low in the low 20s. Mostly sunny and a bit warmer tomorrow High in the mid and upper 30s. Chance of measurable snow dropping to less than 20 percent this morning. -The Observer 



AP Photo File 
BODIESRETRIEVED: 

Emergency crews cany to an ambulanc~the remains ofone ofthe eight miners who were ktlled Monday when an explosion tore through a coal mine near Topmast, Kentucky. 
RESCUERSAT WORK: 

Workers congregate at the entrance ofthe Adkins Coal Co. mine no. 18 in Kentucky which earlier this week was the sight ofan explosion. The explosion, which was 2500 feet deep within the mine, killed eight men. 


~~~~ 

~The_Ohs.erYer_ Design Editor... ................. Monica Gugk Design Assistants ... ......... Randy Rt'ntncr Typesetters.. ...Jim MacLennan MikeJans News Editor. ..................... Kdliflint Copy Editors .. ........... Tom Mt:lshdmc:r Joe: .\tusumc:d Sports Copy Editor .... Skip lksjardin T1•pist ........John :llcCanhy .\),stems Control . ................. Bruce Oakley ND Day Editor. .. ............. David Grote S.I1C Dav Editor... .............. Cccc Baliles Ad Design... ..... . ..... . ....... Fran & Co. Photographer... ......................John Macor (iuest Appearances ............ Gosk and Box Lady Di was a snow hall's throw away llouhk ll and The Statistician Victory Diant·'~ tirM day in chargl:" The Bills' !'an Some who an.· ht·sr forgottt·n  
The Observer !USPS 598 920) IS publiShed Monday through Fnday and on home football Saturdays except dunng exam and vacat1on penods The Observer IS published by the students of Notre Dame and Samt Marys Col~ lege SubSCJiptlons may be purchased for $25 per year t$15 per semester) by wnt1ng The Observer P 0 Box 0 Notre Dame lnd1ana 46556 The Observer IS a member of The Associated Press All reproduction nghts are reserved Second class postage pa1d at Notre Dame lnd1ana 46556  


MINE"RS KILLI.W: 

The bodies ofthirteen miners who were killed in another mine explosion, this one near Whit­well, Tennessee, arrive at Hoopers' Funeral Home in Whitwell. The explosion took place Tuesday. 
RELATIVES MOURN: 
Relatives of some of the thirteen coal miners who were killed in the underground explosion near Whitwell, Tennes­see, gather around at thefuneral home there, where the bodies ofthe men badjust been brought from the mine. See related 
~----------------t
Christmas Eve at Sacred Heart 
t 

This is your invitation to joint us in the traditional walk-int choir for Midnight Mas~ ~ndt 11:00 V1g1l.~ ~ehea rsa1s, nee. 21 , 22, 23 from , \ 5: 0() to 6: 'l'l prn. ' Rehearsal Hall, Crowley ~~usic Building. t 
Instrumentalists also t welcome~ Please contactt us at 7511 for t 
further information. t 
a 
N.D. PARTY HEADQUARTERS 

2128 
SOUTH BEND PHONE 
AVENUE 277-3611 
The Observer Thursday, December 10, 1981 -page 3 
------------------------------------------------------------------~~~~~~~~ 
St. Mary's College 

Com.m.ittee proposes social space 
By MARK BOENNIGHAUSEN 
Stt~f/ Rep"rter 
With the opening ofa new library nt·xt year at Saint Mary's, an ad hoc committee was li>rmed earlier this year to formulate a program ofgoals for tht· soon to he vacated library building. 
The main concern of the: commit­tee, a<:cording to Dr. Kathleen Rice, Dean of Studt•nt Atfairs and Chair­person of the: committee, is to devdop a plan that will increase so­cial space at Saint Mary's. 
Noting the la~.:k of space available for Saint Mary's studt·nts to entertain on their own <:ampus, Rke said, it 
ND-SMC 
Theater 
presents 
one-acts 
Tonight ;md Saturday night, the ND SMC Theatre will be present­
. ing a st·rit·s of ont~-act plays in the Underground Theatre. Tonight's ofkring~ arc two plays by student­playwright Sue: Bt·gky: His just Desserts, a play about men who dine each other to death, and Girl's Room. which deals with the he· havior of adolcstTnt girls in a high school bathroom. Julie jensen d•n.·cts tht· tirst show, while the second is directed by the author. Saturday another thtcc shows will ht· offered: Lanford Wilson'slud/ow Fair will he dirct·tcd by Mark Pizzato as a din.·cting tlnal; Reginald Bain will din.·ct Sam Shepard's Cowb(~vs 2 as a final li>r his production class; and Raul Aportcla will direct a new play by Adri Trigliani, Sbafoose. The shows tonight will be per­formed twice, at 8 and I 0 p.m. Satur­day's production will begin at 8 p.m. Both programs will be held in The Underground, in the basement of Washington Hall, and both arc frt:e ofchargt· 





, , • Kegs 
continuedfrom page I 
President Don Murday will present 
the endorsement to the Academic 
Council in the hopes ofchanging the 
existing format. "Knowing that 
tht: llnivt:rsity calt:ndar is difficult to 
change, I asked h>r tht: CLC's sup­
port in favor ofthe resolUiion passed 
by tht: Stutknt St:nate ~:artier this 
yt·ar," ,\lurday said. "Tht: hacking of 
tht• Cl.C givt:s us tht·t·ndorst·ment of 
faculty. ret·tors, and Student Affairs 
administrator~. which can be of 
great inlluenn·." 
I--------,Katie Wilson t 
tHappy Birthday t 
L __ {q~~:l_J 
1 
Almost Free Travel Drive -No Rental Fees Reservations & Info for 
Cars to AZ, FL, TX Most Major Cities/
States
CALL NOW
I
Chicago ....312-939-3600 Elkhart .... 219-264-4105 Split Gas with Friends! 
MUST BE AT LEAST 21 YEARS OLD At::.'O DRIVE.AJ.JAY CO. 


was decided that a college center and two administrators other than should be developed. The commit­herself, Rice said. The committ .ee tee is formulating goals for the build­will he expanded to include mem­ing by processing input from the bt:rs of the Board of Regents, studt·nts, faculty, and administrators Alumnae, and Parents Council of the collt:gc, she added. during the next semester. she noted. 
At the present time the commit­The committee has also received tee is ranking goals received input from the Notre Dame com­through various surveys, Rice noted. munity through the cllorts of a The committee should have a report group of Saint Mary's students en­ready to present to the Board of rolled in a communications Regents hy late January or early workshop, Rice commented. This l'eburary, ovbserved Rice. group surveyed approximately 300 
Rice added that any construction Notrt· Dame men to see what they costs would he covered by a would like in a t·ollege center at St. 5')00,000 donation received by the Marys, she said, adding that a Notre 
college. Dame architect ural student also The committee is composed of drew up plans for the proposed cen­
tention to tbe Air Force ROTC au•ards ceremony J•esterda}• in tbe library auditorium as student cadets received ,~,;merous ·awards. 
l 
I I' I 
I 
I I 
I 
I 
The Observer 


Mass celebrates Hutnan Rights Day 
By CINDY COLDIRON 
News Staff 
Fr. Hesburgh will celebrate a mass at 5:15 p.m. in Sacred Heart Church and the film "Politics of Torture" will be shown at noon in the LaFortune Little Theatre today by Amnesty International, in recogni­tion of Human Rights Day. 
The coordinator of Amnesty In­ternational at Notre Dame, Professor of International Relations Gil Loes­cher, said that today is the 33rd An­niversary of the signing of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights signed at the United Nations. 
Human Rights Day is celebrated in 
honor ofthat document. 
"This document has a great sym­
bolic value," Prof. Loescher 
remarked. "It speaks to the fun­
damental human rights that all 
people can agree on despite their 
political, religious, and social 
beliefs." 
Amnesty International, founded 
in 1961, is a worldwide movement 
of people working for the release of 
prisoners of conscience, for fair tri­
als for political prisoners, and for an end to torture and the death penalty. Its mandate, which is based on the United Nations Universal Declara­tion of Human Rights, reflects the belief that there are fundamental rights which transcend the boun­daries ofnation, culture, and belief. 
Locally, Amnesty International is 
composed of approximately 50 stu­
dents, faculty , and residents of the 
South Bend area_ Lynn VanHousen, a 
member of Amnesty International, 

stated that one of the purposes of 
Human Rights Day at Notre Dame is 

to make people aware of the issue of 
human rights. "Most Americans who 
are safe and secure in their own 
homes tend to reflect little on this issue," she noted_ Since Amnesty International's founding in 1961, it has intervened on behalf of more than 20,000 prisoners in over a hundred countries. In the United States, 13,000 people do volunteer work ranging from becoming mem­bers of adoption groups to organiz­ing medical services for tortured 
victims: This organization, which is 
worldwide , has 250,000 volunteers 
in more than 130 countries. 
• • • Reagan 
continuedfrom page 1 
Reagan's decision to waive the regulations that bar federal employement for up to three years to anyone who engages in an illegal strike against the government came a week after labor leaders urged him to show compassion toward the 
fired controllers. 
At the meeting Reagan said he would review the matter, but wanted to wait until Lewis returned from japan. But most labor unions had sought to get the fired control­lers back to directing air traffic. 
"We arc clearly disappointed,'' AFL-ClO spokesman Rex Hardestv said of decision. "It is not what th~ AFL-ClO executive council had in mind last week when it asked the president to show compassion ... make the nation's airways safe again and hdp PATCO families." 

memorate the death of the now legendary john Lennon. (AP) 


I 
~ Thurs. Molson Nite $1I Fri. Christmas Party 
I 

2:00-7:00 
I ' . .
1 you won t want to m1ss 1t




1-------------------------­
-----------··----· -----------------­
The Observer Thursday, December 10, 1981 page 5 
'public outcry ' 

KGB grants Aleteyeva leave 

\IOSCO\\' ( AP) -Tlw Soviet 
K<;B ~lTrl·t polin· told thl· daughter· 
in-law of Andrei S<tkharov yesterday 
the Nobd laurl·atc had emlnl his I~­
day hunga strike in t·xile and tlut 
shl· would ht· allowed to go to the 
l 'nitnl St;lll."~ to join her husband. 
l.iza Alexeyt·va. 26. said she was summonnl to K<;B headquarters }TStl·rday <tfh-rnoon and w<t~ told th<tl S<tJ..harov and his wife. Ydena llonna. lwltnl their hungn strike wht·n inlilflnnl that permission had 
ht-cn gr<~ntnl. 
The Sakharovs began the hunger 'trikt· in ( ;orky to protest Sovit·t rdusal to allow \!iss Akxeycva to leave Hus~i<t. Sovil'ls annolllltTd l'riday th<tl the S<tkh<trovs had htTn hospit<tliznl to guard their health. The Sovil't gon·rnment apparently decided to allow .\lhs AkxqTva to leave and rt·solvc tht· confrontation with Sakharov. which hall generatnl a public outcry in tht· \\'est. 
.\1iss Alexeyeva said. however. the KGB warned that her departurtldate could he altned if she didn't limit her contact with foreigner~. espe­cially \\"estern corre~pondents. whost· reports could "provokt· anti· Sovil't senlillll"lll." 
:VIis~ Alexeyev<~ said that after le<tving the K<iB she telephoned OVIR. the Soviet agency th<tl issues foreign travel vis<ts. and <tsknl if " visa was rc<~dy. She said oftlci<tls said they knew nothing <thoul a visa lilr ht·r. 
Speaking with rt·portl'fs in Sak­harov's .\loscow <tpartmcnt. .\!iss Alexeycva quoted K<;B agent Alexander llaranov as saying. "A~ a memhn of the KGB. I c<tn tdl you permission was granted ycsterd<ty (Tuesday) lilr you to kan·." 

Farnilies plan funerals for 13 dead miners 
WIIITWHL. Tenn. ( AP)-An ex· 
plosion that killed I5 ·TemH:sset: 
t·oal mint:rs probably was caust:d by 
methane gas. otlkiab said yt:sterday. 
In Kentucky. meanwhilt:, invt:s· 
tigators entered a mine where I I 
llll'n died of smoke inh<tlation in <Ill 
unexplainnl blast one day earlier. 
In this tiny town in southeastt:rn 
Tt:nneSSl'l', rdatiVl'S identified the 
bodie~ of tht: 1.~ llll'n who dit:d Tues· 
day three miles insidt:" moun win. 
'Thl·y've been mining coal in this 
area for I00 yt:ars and this is the tlrst 
hual l'Xplosion they'vt· ever had." 
~aid Ilarry Joe lloopt·r. father of a 
mintT and owner of a funeral parlor 
usn! as " makeshift morgue for thl' 
bodks. "\\"hat m<tkl·s it tough is that 
I krww all of them. 
'I've got OIH' h;Kk there I u~nl to 
play guitar with. Thert·'s one I went 
to school with I got home at "1:,10 
this morning and lay down hut l 
unrldn'l go to skt·p. It's tough." 
Tuesday's blast wa~ tht· third fatal 
minl· accident in Appalad1ia in !lve 
days -and the worst in Tt·nnesset: 
sinn· lH·t mirwrs WlTl' kilkd in the 
collapst· of a minl· at Co<tl Creek. 
Tt·nn.. in I<J I I. 
Eight minns \\Trt· killed in an t:X· 
plosion in a minl· at TopmoM. Ky.. on 
\1onday. L<tM Thursday. three 
mint·rs wt·n· killnl in " rock and 
slall' fall in a mine in llngoo. W.Va. 
lld'ore that. the la~t major coal 
mine accident wa~ last April. when 
I'; mt·n dinl near Hnlstonc. Colo. 
The lati."M explosion ripped 
through a ~cction of the :'llo. 21 mine 
owrwd hy Tenm·ssec <:onsolidatnl 
Coal Co.. and opnatnl by its sub· 
sidiary. (;rundy .\lining Co. lnves· 
tigators suspect nwthant· gas. a comnwn prohkm in deep coal mint·~. but kdnal minl· officials said it may he snTral morllh~ hdilrt· the cause is determined. 
"I think thne's ~trong t·vidt·nct· that'~ (metham·) \\ h;H it was." said .fohn Parbh. (;ov. Lamar Akxamkr's press secretary. "But I don't think anybody is saying that oftkially." 
Ollkials said about 50 miners were in the Whitwell ,\1oumain mine at the time of the explosion, with I~ in the blast area. The othl·rs got out safdy. 
She said she had no in!imnation on tht· Sakharovs' t·xact wherl'<lbouts or health other than what she learned in a letter Tut·sday. which said they were in "poor con· dition." 
"Thl· tlrst thing in my mind is their 
health." sht· said, adding that 
B<tranov told her she might be able 
to visit them in Gorky. "but that 
would he up to the doctors treating 
them." 
Sakharov. who hdped dt·vdop the Sovil't hydrogen homh. was awankd the Nohd Peace Prize in 19""'; lilr his dl(H·ts on ht·half of human rights. 
ln Washington. \\'hitc llouse Secretary Larry Speakes said Presi· tknt Reagan was "grati!inl" \liss Alexcyeva was grantnl permission _to kave and "pleased" that the hun­ger strike ended. The State Depart­ment hailed the Soviet decision. 
"!'or all of u~ who have been involvt·d in this drama this is a most welcome and happy outconll'." said Alan Romberg. the dt·partment's deputy spokesman. "\\'e would hope that this would mean that the Sakharovs, once they fully recover from the etlt:cts of ther hunger strike. will he allowed to return to a normal life," he said. 
Sakharov. 60. was banished to Gorky. a Volga Rivn city 2';0 miles east of .:VIoscow in January of last year. 

Sunday, Dec. 13 7:30PM NOTRE DAME A.C.C. 
TICKETS ON SALE NOW!!! 
$10.50/9.50 Reserved Available at the Box Office, ·1st Source Bank, Main Office, St. Joseph's Bank, Elkhart Truth, Robertson 's--South Bend & Elkhart. 
With the approach offinals, the use ofthe Memorial Library will reach epidemic proportions. and the inhabitants tl'ill be mcJIIing about so that the)' tl'i/1 on/}' appear as ephemeral blurs. (Photo by 
john .Wacor) 
join us this sunday for our cabaret brunch 
classical music provided by the elkhart string quartet 
for reservations call259·9925 


-·············································· 
Human Rights Day 
: VAN LINES will run this weekend :
Thursday , Dec. 10, 1981 Speaker: Nerri Barrientos • friday 6:00 pm -midnight
•
• saturd.ay 4:00pm -midnight

former detainee in Chile •
•
• depart from main circle on the hour.
•
• Take a study break, 

speaking on Human Rights •
• go out to dinner, or Christmas shop . 
•
• 
Town & Country ,·University Park,
• 
•e
7:30 PM Library Lounge and North Village Malls 
•
. ··~·~·~~~,_~..~--~~~~­'······························ 


Thursday, December 10, 1981 -·page 6




Editorials 
As simple as black and white 
I read a short article in the newspaper about a month ago which has been on my mind ever since. I can't recall the exact details, nor can 
I find the copy I made, but basically, here's what it said: 
A young woman, about 25 to 30 years old, had just discovered that she was white and not black, as she had previously believed. It seems that shortly after her birth she was placed in an adoption agency where she was classified as black because of blotchy discolorations on her skin. She was adopted by a black family and, I presume, considered herself to be black. Some set ofcircumstances, 
which I cannot recall, led to the dis­
avery  that,  indeed,  she  was  not  
black,  that  her  natural  father  and  
mother were white.  

'' I was so excited when I found out that I ran downtown and had my driver's license changed." 
Acccording to the newspaper ar­ticle, this was her first, gleeful reac­tion. No surrounding context was given in which to place the quote (that is, there was no mention that perhaps she always felt out of place, or that she always wondered about 
her racial heritage, etc.) so I felt free to assign to it my own interpretation. The way I read it, it was as if the young woman were saying, ''Thank God I'm not black after all." 
I was amazed. Racial identity seems to me t8 be something that is taken for granted, whether one is white, black or some combination of both. If someone were to come up to me and show proof to document that 
I was someting other than I thought myself to be, I would have a hard time thinking of myself as this ''new person." This woman, however, seemed delighted with the news. 
It was as if the weight of the world had been lifted off her shoulders. I embarrassingly admit that this 
thought only recently ocurred to me 
providing the contextual material 
ommitted by t~e newspaper. I guess 
I can understand why this woman 
was glad at her news. If not the 
weight of the wrold, then perhaps the 
weight of a prejudiced society had 
been unburdened, freeing those tired 
shoulders to be massaged by the 
promising hands of opportunity and 
acceptance. 
It's naive (safe is perhaps a better word) to assume that the civil rights legislation of the 1960s went a long way to eliminate racial discrimina­tion in the United States. Sure, there have been the perfunctory changes 
-no more segregated public facilities, no more scenes of South­ern sheriffs "controlling" blacks with firehoses and police dogs-but the other side of the scale is so weighted that it all but nullifies these gestures. The Klan is on the rise as never before since its inception. Af­firmative action and shoo! desegregation are disgraceful dis­plays of ''going through the mo­
tions.'' 
"You can legislate all you want, 
but you can't hange people's at­
titudes overnight." So goes the stan­
dard reply of those unwlling to admit 
that there is still a long way to go in 
the area of civil rights. 
No, you can't change people's at­
titudes overnight. But, from where I 
sit, overnight was a long time ago. 
Attitudes aren't changing because 
soccial conditions are perpetuating 
old prejudices, if not encouraging 
them. In addition to the K !an, busing 
and affirmative action (which are ac­
tual, not attitudinal problems) there 
are other blatant facts. Unemploy­
ment is highest among young black 
males. Housing projects, for ex­
ample Chicago's Cabrini Green and 
Robert Taylor Homes, are populated 
almost entirely by blacks. Looking at a "project child" it's hard not to think that had he been born white he probably would not be living there. 

It's as hard to stomach that thought as it is easy to think it. 
Television is an embarrassing ex­ample of the perpetuation of racial stereotyping. From the acclaimed mini-series "Roots", programming has devolved to such mindless, of­fensive shows as "Diff'rent Strokes" (note the 'cute' spelling?) with Gary ''look at the cute black kid with the chubby cheeks" Coleman and "Gimme a Break" featuring a modern-day, jive-talking Aunt Jemima. 
Even here on campus -at a uni­versity, the place where people sup­posedly come to broaden their experiences and learn tolerance ­one hears expressions worthy of Les­ter Maddox on a good day. I'm sure more than one parent wondered if their child would have a black roommate. 
Perhaps I judged the young 
woman in the article too rashly. Per­
haps she won't think of herself dif­
ferently. Perhaps, only now, will 
Jenny Pitts 
other people think of her differently. 

It makes me wonder what my reac­tion would be if someone were to come up to me and tell me I were really black. I wonder if I would run downtown and have my driver's license changed. 

When Monsignor Thomas J. McCormack announced that, infla­tion being what it was, he would most regretfully need to charge a tui­tion of $90 per month, nearly 10 per­cent of the parents of the I ,250 students who attend Cardinal Hayes High School wrote in to complain. Complain may not exactly reflect the emotions of parents who had, after all, been paying $85 per month. Everyone knows the impartial ravages of inflation, and any parents who desired to look into the matter at Cardinal Hayes would see that it was running at an anual deficit of $200,000. Moreover, the school's budget is only $1.5 million. 
Just two years ago, a total of 14 teachers approached the monsignor and said, in effe{;t, look, I love this school, and the job it is doing for inner-city students is remarkable, but 
I can't get along with a salary dif­ferential as exaggerated as that paid me by Cardinal Hayes, compared with that available to me in the ublic 

Ideology costs more in the long run 
William F. Buckley
high schools. In other words, the parents recognized that nobody was getting any richer from the five extra dollars per month being asked of them. So that their representations to the authorities were more in the way of an invitation to consider the pain that an extra $5 per month causes the very poor In New York, many of them one-parent households support­ing four, five, six children. 
So what does Cardinal Hayes do? Well, it does everything. There is an Inner City Scholarship Fund (its chairman is Jewish). There is.the an­nual money-raising dinner for the benefit of the 35 schools run by the archdiocese of New York, which last year raised$ l million. The rest has to be got from the archdiocese, which comes up with the money to the ex­tent it can. To the extent it can't, the boys at Cardinal Hayes whose parents can't make it are detached: and go to the public schools, which are free. And which cost the New York tax ayers not $90 per month, 

but three to four times that figure. 
Those who oppose the notion of tuition tax credits are enemies of education. The idea of public educa­tion is first to promote education. The word public is an adjective, adorning the word education, which being public, is advertised as free. In asmuch as we should all by now know that there is no such thing as a free lunch, we acknowledge that even the very poor in the inner city in New York, as elsewhere in inner cities, are paying for their public schools, through taxation direct and indirect. But many of them are not getting an education, certainly not of the sort that causes parents to 
sacrifice to send their children to Car­dinal Hayes. 
The students are there promptly­at the entrance is one of the 36 laymen (there are also 16 priests and six brothers), clapping his hands, ur­ging them to run in to be punctual. They come dressed in tie and coat. There is no such creature as a securit guard. The 14-year-old freshmen of­
ten need a little decompression, and 
five percent ofthem will flunk out for 
failure to meet behavioral standards. 
After making it through sophmore 
year, there are few disciplinary 
problems, none at all of the kind one 
reads of as regularly tormenting the 
life of children in many of the public 
schools. It is hardly a matter of race 
-at Cardinal Hayes 53 percent are 
Hispanics, 35 percent blacks, zero percent are troublemakers. Eighty­five percent of the seniors go on to higher education. 
Not suprising. Father Walsh teaches a history class for advanced placement students and today he is talking about the rough syllogism at­tempted by Alexander Hamilton when he said: a) good government is 
in the national interest, b) the rich 
and wellborn serve the national inter­
est; therefore c) the rich and wellborn 
(by such terms, Hamilton meant the 
18th century sq uirearchy) serve good 
overnment. That isn't necessarily 

On the Right  
true, said Father Walsh. But that was Hamilton's position. Later he told the visitor that he teaches only his­torical episodes in which controversy figures. Much of what goes by the name of social tragedy it is not easy to do any­thing about: for instance, drug abuse, illegitimacy, crime. When one comes upon such an institution as Cardinal Hayes, serving the cause of education, of racial integration, of good manners, and reflects that a few adamant ideologues pleading a con­struction ofthe First Amendment that would have baffled the men who wrote that amendment, threaten its survival by blocking tuition tax credits, one despairs over the noxious lengths to which ideology taxes us.  

Editorial Board
==Ihenbse~er== 
Editor-in-Cbief..............................)ohn McGrath Founded November 3, 1966 
Executive News Editor.........................Kt:lli Flint Sports Editor .............................. Michael Ortman News Editor ..................................Tim Yt:rcellotti 
The Observer is an independent newspaper published by the students of the Photo Editor........................................)ohn Macor 
News Editor............................. David Rickabaugh 
University of Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily 
SMC Executive Editor........... Mary Agnes Carey EditorialsEdttor.......................Anthony Walton
reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is report­
SMC News Editor......................Cathy Domanico Features Editor .........................Gregory Swiercz
ed as accurately and as objectively as possible. Editorials represent the opinion of 
a majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, opinions and letters are the views Department Managers
of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community, and 
Business Manager .........................Rich Coppola Production Manager...................Michael Monk
the free expression of varying opinions on campus; t:hrousb lcuers, ii eacwr&ged. 
Controller.............................................)oe Mulflur Circulation Manager .............Tom MacLennan Aavertising Manag.er .......................Chris Owen Systems Manager ........................... Bruce Oakley
{219)283~8661
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
I 

Thursday, December 10, 1981 -page 7
Sports Brie/§ 

Ill I b<' 1)IJS<'I'I'<'I' and I b<' .lssucilll<'rl I'I'!'SS 
lnterhall basketball games listed in Wednes­
day's edition ofThe Obseroer for tonight were incorrectly scheduled for the ACC. All interhall games scheduled for this evening will be played at the published times, but in the Stepan Center. -The Ob­sen,er 
A ski trip is being organized by the Student Union open to all Notre Dame students. Although the trip is scheduled for March 1 3-19 (Spring Break), an organizational meeting is scheduled for tonight at 7 p.m. in a room off the LaFortune Ballroom. A short film on the Summit County ski areas will be shown. Because of space 
limitations an initial deposit of S25 is required by Wednesday, Dec. 
16. -The Obseroer 
The WOmen'S golfteam of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's will meet tonight at 6:30 p.m. in the Breen-Phillips 24-hour lounge (in the basement). All interested in competing in the spring should attend. For more information, contact Mary Beth Heslin ( 1279) orJim Rogers (3234)-The Obseroer 
Strength development and conditioning and its relation lO all sports will be the subject of the first Notre Dame Strength and Conditioning Clinic scheduled for Friday and Saturday, December I I and 12 at the University of Notre Dame. Registration begins at 4 p.m. wmorrow in the auxiliary gymnasium ofthe Athletic and Convocation Center. For further information call Bill Aller­heiligen or Gary Wei! at 7784. -The Obseroer 
A clutch pin by Mike Smithenabled the Notre 
Dame wrestling team to up its record to 3-0 last night in the ACC Pit. Smith's pin clinched a 27-16 Victory over Olivet after the Irish had finished a 29-18 dumping ofOhio Northern in a triangular meet. Joe Andreetti's pin helped the team's cause against Olivet, while Brian Erard was the lone pin winner in the Ohio Northern match. -The Observer 
Bill Gleason, sports columnist for the Chicago Sun­Times, will be the master of ceremonies tonight at Nmre Dame's annual football banquet honoring Coach Gerry Faust and his players. Reservations (at $18) for the 7 p.m. dinner in the ACC may be made by calling Rich Sherman at either 282-2392 or 272-5887. -The Obseroer 
HOCKEY 
CENTRAL COLLEGIATE HOCKEY ASSOCIATION North 
w  L  T  QF  GA  Pet  
M1ch1gan State  8  3  1  48  34  .708  
N. M1ch1gan  7  3  0  48  33  700  
Ferns State  9  4  1  63  46  679  
MIChigan  5  3  2  31  28  .600  
Bowling Green  5  52  44  .550  
M1ch1gan Tech  5  4  1  44  43  550  
Notre Dame  8  7  1  57  59  .464  
M1am10.  3  5  0  26  33  .375  
W. MIChigan  3  8  48  58  292  
Oh1oState  2  7  32  47  .250  
L. Supenor Sl.  2  7  27  44  .250  

Tonlghl'a Gamea Notre Dame at Northern M1ch1gan Tomorow'a Game• 
-.::: 
Notre Dame at Northern M1ch1gan Bowling Green at Oh10 State Lake Supenor State at Western M1ch1gan M1ch1gan at M1aml 0. M1ch1gan Tech at Mich1gan State 
Saturdey'a Game• Bowling Green at Ohio State Lake Supenor State at Western M1ch1gan M1ch1gan at M1am1 0. M1ch1gan Tech at M1ch1gan State Ferns State at lllino1s-Ch1cago C1rcte 

Classifieds  The Observer will accept classifieds Mon­day through Friday, 10 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. However, classifieds to appear in lhe next issue must be received by 3 p.m. the bustness day prtor to insertion. All classifieds must be prepaid. etther in person or through the mail.  
FOR NEXT SEMESTER HOUSE AND STORAGE WANTED. I need to rent aNOTICES APARTMENTS 234-2626 garage or parking space tor car over win­ter Must be a sheltered space Call Jack P t.a.1 7 ..K SHOP HOURS WED, CLEAN 2-BEDROOM MOBILE HOME Ke1tet at 6986 be lore 16 Dec 81 SAT. SUN 9-7. CASPERSON. ·1303 FOR RENT, 2 MILES NORTH OF NO BUCHANAN AD , NILES. $270 PER MONTH. LANDLORD PAYS I need a nde to and lrom Long Island. NY ALL UTILITIES. 272-0116. Can leave late-afternoon of Dec. 18-CALL USED & OUT-PRINT BOOKS bought. CHUCK at8920 Thanks! sold, searched. ERASMUS BOOKS. ·ROOMMATE WANTED-completely lur­Tues-Sunday. 12-6. 1027 E Wayne (One mshed apt.-kitchen. bar, cable-call Dave Need nde to and from ATLANTA for block south of Eddy-Jefferson Intersec­at 283-1169 XMAS break.Can leave only after Dec tion) IS. Return on Jan 2.Will share usuai.Call Share House: lurn1shed, good neighbor­M1ck y at 288-0076 Watch lor The SociBty tor Creative hood. $100/mo 1/3utll. 287-0356. Anacromsm nght after Chnstmas break! RIDE WANTED TO NORTHERN NEW JERSEY (RT. 80) ON FRI. 12/18 WILL SHARE USUAL. CALLJACK 277-1185 ATTENTION ALUMS & CHICAGO WANTED BOUND STUDENTS. The Notre Dame NEED RIDERS to Terre Haute, IN . Fri.. Club of Chicago w111 sponsor the1r annual Dec. 18th. Call Joe 1697 Chnstmas Mass and Brunch on Dec. 13. Need nde to Cleveland for Xmas. Please 1981 at I tam. Mass w1ll be held at St. call John at 8450. Looking for three festival or lower arena Michael's Pansh '"Old Town Brunch Will tickets to the Fore1gner rock concert, Dec. follow at 12:30 at the Ambassador West TUTOR-part time-for educ. center Re­13. Will make an offer. This is a must. Hotel. Please contact JoAnn at the N.D. qu~res in-depth knowledge of college level Please call Kev1n, anytime at 291-0008 or Club office at 312-263-6063 tor reserva­Biology. Chern. and PhySICS. Seek1ng 291·3177. tions graduate student with teach1ng exp. lor weekend classes begmmng m1d-Jan thru I need a nde to and from HUMAN RIGHTS DAY MASS 5:t5, Apnl Call 232-2366 bet. 1 0-4. COLUMBUS,OH. Can leave afternoon of Sacred .Heart w/ Fr Hesburgh. Speaker Dec. 18 -Call Bryan al8853 7:30 pm L1b Lounge · Nern Barnentos. Ride needed to Pittsburgh/Wheeling area Former detainee'" Ch1le lor Christmas. Can leave Tuesday mght NEED A RIDE TO FLORIDA or Wednesday. Call Scott a! 6931 ANYWHERE AROUND THE EXPERIENEED TYPIST WILL DO JACKSONVILLE-DAYTONA AREA FOR TYPING REASONABLE RATES CALL: Need nde to ATLANTA lor Chnstmas. CHRISTMAS BREAK. WILL SHARE 287-5162 Can leave Wednesday afternoon. Call USUAL CALL GREG-8222. Daveat6931 Need nde to Oklahoma? Leave AM 18th HELP NEED RIDE TO NORTH JERSEY. or 19th '" 7-passenger van lor Tulsa and I need a nde to and from the Philadelphia­anywhere off 1-80. Can leave on Oklahoma City areas. $25.00. Call 277­Allentown, PA-South Jersey-Delaware Thursday n1ght 12/17. Call TOM at 2187 3293 (you get the Idea) area lor Chnstmas break. I can leave Thursday mght. NEED RIDE TO SAN ANTONIO OR ANY ATTENTION ALL ST. LOUISANS: December 17, around 6:15p.m. and can MAJOR TEXAS CITY...CALL JOHN AT Your St. LOUIS Club is hosting 1ts share expenses. Call Tim at 1536. x1605 Christmas Break RIDER LINE IIIII If you need a nde or riders. call Sharon at 6553. Need a fide to and from Northern N.J. for FLORIDA RIDERS 287-7157 Good tuck on your finals!! Chnstmas break. Right off Route 80. Can leave Saturday morn1ng. Call Mike 1181. I NEED RIDE FOR XMAS BREAK TO look1ng for a nde7 WILSON DRIVEAWAY EITHER NEW YORK CITY. PHILLY OR has cars. One-way transportation Your FOURTH FEMALE ROOMMATE BALTIMORE-D.C. AREA. CAN LEAVE cost IS gds & tolls (deposit required) call NEEDED FOR TWO BEDROOM 12/19. WILL SHARE USUAL. CALL WILL 80Bx3t85. CAMPUS VIEW AAPARTMENT CALL AT 8635. 272-1661. Obeerver Party thla SaturdayIll Stop Need ride to BOSTON-To leave between up to the ontce lor ddetalla end your TWO ROOMMATES NEEDED FOR Wed.N1te & Fri.Noon-Have Music-Gib­tlckata. HOUSE ON NOTRE DAME AVENUE. 1628 CALL 232-8301. Ride needed to and from Tampa. Flonda lor Chnstmas. Will share expenses andLOST/FOUND driv1ng. Help Please. TONY 3079 or 3070. FOR SALE ] LOST A 58-C Texas Instrument Cal­HOUSEMATE WANTED. OWN ROOM SURPLUS JEEPS. CARS. TRUCKS culator about a week ago maybe '" the $100/MO. PLUS UTILITIES CALL 289­Car-inv. value $2143 sold lor $100. For Cell Biology Class. II found. please call 5964 AFTER 5PM. informatiOn on purchastng simtlar bar­6737 or return to 143 Farley Hall gains. call 602-941-8014, ext. 3648. Ride neede to MINNEAPOLIS for Phone call refundable. LOST: NO CLASS RING. OUTSIOE Christmas break. Will share usual. Bear SENIOR BAR FRIDAY NIGHT NAME 233-2912. FOR SALE: 75 watt stereo rece1ver with INSIDE IF FOUND. PLEASE CALL PHIL equaliZer. tape deck. and pa1r of PERKINS AT 8338. BUFFALONIANS! I need a nde to Buffalo speakers Call Cecil Rucker at 8223. for XMAS. w111 share usuals. Can leave LOST: Tl-58 CALCULATOR YOU CANT late Friday afternoon. Call Troy at 4478 STEREO EQUIPMENT GREAT STU­MISS IT: CRACKED DISPLAY IF DENT DEALS ON SONY W.M -BOSE­FOUND PLEASE CALL 277-7794 MY Need nde to and lrom J.TLANTA lor JVC-HK-NIKKO-MOST MAJOR CAREER AS AN ENGINEER DEPENDS Xmas break. Can leave EARLY on DEC. BRANDS AT HOLIDAY PRICES/ BOSE ON 15 or later. Will share usual. Call Cathy at 301'S $2251 MUCH MOREl CALL JB AT 4-14424. 8228or8232 FOUND. DETEX CARD IN THE OB­SERVER OFFICE. COME IN AND IDEN­WANTED: RIDE TO EAST PA ON I 80 ROE FOR SALE UNITED AIRLINE TIFY NUMBERS FOR XMAS CALL 1820 TICKET FROM LOS ANGELES TO SOUTH BEND ON JAN. 11. ONLY $160! LOST. N D. CLASS RING, Tuesday WILL PAY $65 ROUNDTRIP TO CALL FRANCES AT 283-4233 mormng '"the 2nd lloor men·s room of the CENTRAL NY XMAS BREAK BARRY adm1n bldg. Quarter pallad1um. green. 287-9664. LOOKING FOR THE PERFECT X-MAS round-laced stone. S G M1ller. 81-82" GIFT FOR YOUR PARENTS OR FAMILY engraved on 1ns1de My mother w111 kill me need a ride to CLEVELAND lor xmas call ? CALL JIM AT 3282 il I go home lor Chnatmas without II! II Dennis 3452. found. please save me by calling Steve at 233-4381 or 232-5352.xxx I NEED A RIDE TO NORTH JERSEY (MORRISTOWN) CAN LEAVE DEC. 15 LOST· GOLD IRISH CLADDAH RING. OR AFTER. PLEASE CALL KATE AT TICKETS 1 e HEART. TWO HANDS AND CROWN 2897 ON IT 14K GOLD REWARD IF FOUND. PLEASE CALL 5265 SMC LAURA PILADELPHIA!II That's where I gotta be! STUDENT B-BALL TIX. BOTH Or at least close! Call M1ke at 1386 PACKAGES CHEAP 277-5329 LOST. YELLOW PHYSICS NOTEBOOK. PLEASE' INC LINE. PLEASE CALL JIM AT 3274 that s pretty cold. buddy OR BRING TO :16 KEENAN HELP!!! TEXANS I need a nde to north central Texas lor Xmas. Any po1nts between Okla. City and Dallas w1ll do Call Robert (3306) FOR RENT PERSONALS ., Need a R1de to Syracuse. B1ng. area Anyt1me after Thursday 17th W111 pay the Available second semester. completely usual. Call Meg at6926. Exper~enceo typ1st -­reasonable Mrs. furniShed. comtortllbfe house. close to Bad lord campus. rooms for 1 to 6 people $500 Need nde to D.C. Vlrg1n1a area lor 288-2107 semester plus ulllit1es Call 288-3942 al­Chnstmas break Can leave Fnday eve­Hours BAM to 5PM ter 5:30. mng. Please call Henry at 1132.  TYPING DONE ON CAMPUS BY PROFESSIONAL SECRETARY. LOW RATES, QUICK SERVICE. CALL X­1315. NIGHTSOUNDS 105 FM 10:30 PM ATTENTION MOLARITY FANS-II you m1ssed 11 the t1rst t1me. Michael Molinelli s l~rst book. On the Road to Selling Out, IS now'" available'" an mcredible FOURTH pnnt1ng. and can be purchased at the Notre Dame bookstore. Also still available 15 the most recent Molanty release. Don't Make a Right, another extraordmary Jun1per Press publication Both books make a great Chnstmas g1ft. and are only $2 95. Get them now. before they·re all GONEIIIIII SAY HAPPY HOLIDAYS AND SHOW HER THAT YOU CARE WITH A BOU­QUET OF FLOWERS DELIVERED EACH WEDNESDAY FOR 4 WEEKS (WE CAN BREAK FOR XMAS BREAK OR WILL DELIVER IF YOUR LADY IS STAYING ON CAMPUS/ IN TOWN WEDNESDAYS FLOWERS2891211 She lost her SPARKLE you know she 1sn t the same What a long strange tnp 1t's been!!! Handwnllng analyzed by Johns Hopk1ns grad For best results. several paragrap­phs on unlined paper. but anythmg OK. $5. John Young. 1902 Claudia C1rcle. Val· dosta. GA 31601. LOS ANGELES I! RIDERS NEEDED TO LA AND/OR BACK FOR XMAS. WILL LEAVE THURS DEC. 17. CALL DAVE -1786 ATTENTION HE-MAN WOMAN HATERS ONLY 9 MORE DAYS UNTIL WE CAN GO HOME TO SOME GENUINE WOMEN Ill NO MORE NON-MALES FOR 3 MONTHS Ill the He Man Woman Haters Club is proud to announce that we of such good tash1on sense and otherw1se well rounded good taste have been on the rad1o !!II we enJoy helping those under the Dome '" their quest of heterosexual seltesteem. male or non-male (ho ho ho. as the tat man says) wait til tomorrow-the HMWHC OBSERVER PARTY THIS SATURDAY. FORGET ABOUT FINALS WITH THIS PRE-CHRISTMAS BASH. GET YOUR TICKETS FROM DIANE. Diane is Shirley's new replacement. She has all the t1ckets to the Obaerver Perty th1s Saturday. so. stop up and say hello.. when you p1ck up your tickets to thiS gala event (to be covered in the People.. sec­lion of both TIME and Newsweek magaZines). JEFF NOVOTNY CHRISTMAS IS AL­MOST HERE!!! LOVE. BRADLEY CHRISTMAS CRAFTS SALE to benefit Sr. Manas Primary Day School to be held '" the Memonal Library on Thurs.-Fn. Dec. 10-11 lrom tOa.m to 10 p m. Pot­tery. plants. X-Mas cards. kmtted items. etc Sponsored in part by the sophomore class. Yes. it~·i.hait;,;;~· ~~··y~~··agaln.·D~n Bad as D1rt Nelson's borth day os again upon us. G1ve the Baron of Badness a call at 8305. or ease on down to 25 Pangborn and let the Man tram EA funk tor you While celebrating h1s 20 years of existence. WILL PAY BIG $$$ FOR TWO FOR­EIGNER TIX. Call DOUG at 6166. l<at1e and Dons. Happy B1rthday to the le1sllst wenches thiS sade of Milwaukee!!! Why not meet me on the steps at the Kmghts of Columbus bU1Id1ng lor some rum and Dom F1co 1mllat1ons prom1se I won I roll off the steps You've shit got to be kiddmg-and I have a REAL JOb. The System  Dear Frustr1ted Oes,gn Ass1stant. BRIAN AND ROB.So your llnally 181 I am more than w1lhng and very capable of Everybody.espec1ally OLD MEN and rellev1ng your pent up WHEET.watch out lor these two hyper des1res Your tust don I want 11 bad children! Bonzo hves on. Work on that enough cross check Bnan! Prod ACCEPT NO SUBSTITUTES SPEND Sen1or Formal 1982 needs a theme Any YOUR EXAM STUDYING HOURS AT suggest10ns call. L1sa 1992 M1ke 1369 THE ONE AND ONLY DARBY S PLACE. N1n1 (SMC) 4626 Kathleen 277-2207 LOCATED IN THE BASEMENT OF LAFORTUNE WE ARE OPEN FROM DEAR McCANDLESS. YOU SHOULD MIDNIGHT UNTIL THREE BEFORE EX­HAVE STAYED AT OUR HAPPY AM DAYS HOUR HOW ABOUT TRYING OUR CHRISTMAS PARTY ITS YOUR LAST DO YOU READ 'SIMON'?CHANCE ... THE K OF C Sot Glassy-eyed. We hope that you arePARTY 101 FINAL EXAM . FRIDAY both lor your 22nd B-day A true sybanteNIGHT AT THE K OF C de­serves a BACCHANALIAN least we·re tust the Types to prov1de 11 PS.Georgia Bound Ill Sorry we·re late. but we we were still hun­I need rider• to Savanah or Macon or At~ gover Monday. lanta or any po1nt 1n between Only g01ng down. no nde back. Leave on TMrsday EW JERSEY BUS. STILL A FEW SEATS mght or Fnday Lets go down south AVAILABLE TO EAST BRUNSWICKwhere we belong! Call Bill at x8683 AND NYC CALL MIKE AT 1077(That s t2/17or 12/18) WHY DO YOU READ 'SIMON'?Little red-headed girl, Somet1mes you wonder what happens to Moooolove. somet1mes the touch ol a lnend IS DEAR SHORT-SHEETER. enough You re go1ng to pay tor that one I Last t1me you get to mess w1th MY bed THETnpper LITTLE REDHEADED GIRL EYEGLASSES NEEDED A group IS MERRY CHRISTMAS MONA II! K.K go1ng to Honduras to prov1de eye care for the poor by examtn1ng the1r eyes and d1spens1ng glasses from a library of used 144 Farley Proudly Presents. Portra1t olglasses. Over break please collect a Cluelss Dorm Room leatunng Bananaprescnpt1on & sunglasses you and your Head' Kopodlansk y and Deb I love h1Slam1ty no longer use and drop off'" Per· BOD Kopp Get a clue gals and Merrysonnet Off1ce.Campus M1n1stry.or Volun­Chnstman. Love. YOOOteer Serv1ces To Seven SMC Sophs. Thanks. 409. ForDELETE nilS LINE no. 1;;, too gosh darn the J.O. the unreal car(don·l askb1zzy!!!!!!!! me ).Milwaukee g~rls. Go Go's. Get a clue I Thanks lor the t1mel aND FroshTo The BEAR. BIG RED and the MUMMY. CANDY IS DANDY. FLOWERS ARENT BAD BUT LIQUOR IS QUICKER SO Tr Colleen N . You owe me a dance!HAVE ONE ON USI!I LOVE.YOUR SWEETIES P S THANKS A LOT NEED RIDE TO LONG ISLAND FOR CHRISTMAS. CALL LAURA ANYTIMEDear The System Shes not k1dd1ngl xo AT4873.P S. Get a REAL JOb!! STOMP OUT DISCO AT SENIOR BAROrt. you ham! THURSDAY NIGHT WITH LESUEIII In the Underground Theatre. Ton1ght. 1 0 Hav1ng problems get11ng yourtwo ong1nal one-act plays by student· MISTLETOE to work lor you? Need someptaywnght Susan Begley -His Just helplul hints? Call DEBBIE HILL at 2723-­Desserts and Glrl"s Room -8 and 10 she used 11 on the ent1re Glee Club! HOp.m.'" the basement ol Wash1ngton Hall HOHODeblSaturday mght. three one-acts: one by Lanlord W1lson. one by Sam Shepard. MIKE FAVORITE. Good Luck on yourand a new play by Ad1 Tng1an1. at 8 p.m '" l~nats. and have a MERRY CHRISTMAS! the Washington basement Both LISA GALLOWAY programs are tree to the public. Be there/ Momca. You look like hell. Is the Dumpy Girl really dumpy? What ore waves? F~nd out tomght! Come see Glrl'a Shorty. As In he1ght. you are tow '" age. Room '"the Underground Theater atso(l1nally 1 91) Anyway. Happy Birthday -even though you do sound like a Puerto Does Joe Dolan really know the dfference Rican when we re stoned Fnends between Boat a Cheval and Ratstn Bran? P.S. Good tuck w1th both of you·reCan Joe Musumec1 really swallow long fnends next semester. ObJeCts un a s1ngte bite? Is 11 good w1th One good ramble deserves another. and orance sauce? Ftnd out by com1ng to see so. The Restless Shade of Moose Control Hla Juat Deaaerta '" the Underground (w1th or without hts glasses. wh1ch someTheater tomght! Be there or be sqarel woman keeps try1ng to take from him wh1te play1ng games) strolls the dom1n10n.APOLOGIES TO WARREN STREHLO wtshtng only an end to lhe empt1ness ol aBEARS page. seek1ng only to turn blank to black. At moments such as these, one must forsake the dnbble and put up the shot.Young Boupre YOUR A GOD YOUR desp1te the zone block1ng the wayAWESOME Meloche The Restless Shade of course has had dealings With D1gger But none of this would be noteworthyRose Gallagher IS so CUTE when shes except for the fact that even down IS upangry! See you'" court Rose these days (check the stock market and think of ducks) and old tokes never d1e, ot' sTo the WEEBLE.a Meg·a-QUEEF. a JUSt that no one 0 laughs at them anyJULUSH. a REETS. and an INTROVERT moreII exams go WELL We II return to thiS Doors have been broken down lor~es­HELL! And on Jan. 16TH throw a Great ser reasons. but that's another story. TheBASH! We II look. & we II rate. & we II toss real 1ssue 1s whett1er all the th1ngs we·re ·.out the TRASH! So take ot yourselves. & miSSin' are really w8111n' at the end of the remember to g1ve me a call But have a nde And now that MaveriCk IS back. canFUN Chnstmas. Wh1ch 1s most 1mportant Rawhide be tar away? of Alii Guess Who???? II religion IS the op1ate ol the masses. TV IS their LSD, and relig1on on TV Is real­M1ke Rentner. ty a trip Congratulations on your superb perfor­ReJevance tends to be a problem in thiS mance last mght. The solo was great! And space. applause. applause lor mak1ng Concert K of C CHRISTMAS PARTY FRIDAY Band!! Oh, and good luck on your f~nals. NIGHT AT g, ..BREAK THE FINALS Your B1g Bro TENSION xx  

.-~----~----------------------------------------------~--------------------------~------------------------------------------------------------------------~---­
The Observer-Sports Thursday, December 10, 1981 -page 8 
Michael in '83 
HOLLYWOOD, Fla. (AP) -The New York Yankees' managerial merry-go-round took another sud­den turn yesterday when the American League champions an­nounced at baseball's winter meetings that Gene Michael would 
return as the club's pilot for three 
years, beginning in 1983. 
The Yankees held center stage at the meetings, announcing that Mic­hael would succeed Bob Lemon, who will handle the club for 1982 before moving on to other duties in the organization. 
The Yankees' shuffle was settled after owner George Steinbrenner granted Lemon's wish to manage the team for one more year. 
Lemon has twice served as a relief manager for Steinbrenner, taking over in July 1978 and leading the club to the world championship, then relieving Michael last Sept. 6 and taking the club to the World Series again. 
"I want to know if I can go nine," joked Lemon. "And George wants to know if! can go nine. I have very few complete games. I'm the Goose "I was wrong," Michael said at the to the news conference. As Michael 
Gossage of the managers." news conference yesterday. began talking about how tough 
10 15 3 93 115 23

Once Steinbrenner agreed to give Steinbrenner could be, the N. Y Rangers 
-
Hartford 7 12 8 92 107 22 
Lemon the Yankees for 1982, the "I know we've got some telephone in the room began rin­Detroit 8 15 5 104 126 21 owner turned to Michael, who still problems, but I think that's over and 
ging. Los Angeles 10 16 1 106 131 21 Toronto 7 13 7 117 122 21 had two years left on his contract. I don't see any major problems again "That's George," a newsman said 8 17 101 113 18
Washington 2 The two agreed to a two-year exten--except winning," he said. loudly. "He's changed his mind." Colorado 4 19 5 69 142 13 
w L T GF GA Pis Edmonton 18 7 6 170 111 42 
Yesterday's Results Buffalo 15 6 7 109 84 37 Boston 4, N. Y Rangers 3 
L.A. gets Orta 
Hartford 5, St. Lou1s 1Boston 16 7 4 109 85 36 Philadelphia 4, Pittsburgh 1 Philadelphia 17 10 1 109 105 35 

Winnipeg 3, Toronto 3 Quebec 15 12 4 141 134 34 
N. Y Islanders 15 8 4 110 93 34 Buffalo 7, Colorado 1 
Montreal6, M1nnesota 6 Minnesota 12 6 9 120 89 33 Montreal 12 7 8 129 81 32 

Trades tnark Baseball talks 
Chicago 7, Wash1ngton 3 

Edmonton 5, Los Angeles 5 HOLLYWOOD, Fla. (AP) -Ac­last season. Perconte batted Ch1cago 8 127 30 Vancouver 4, N. Y. Islanders 3 Vancouver 13 11 5 105 95 31 
.346 Preliminary major league joint 11 8 115 tion continued at the major league Today's Games
Pittsburgh 13 11 4 103 103 3C
with Albuquerque and Sutcliffe, a meeings got under way after the 
Winmpeg 11 12 5 109 127 27 St. LoUis at Boston 
baseball winter meetings today, 
17-game winner in 1979, struggled closing session of the minor league Calgary 9 14 6 111 144 24 Minnesota at DetrOit
with a number of players moving to St. LOUIS 10 15 4 102 124 24
to a 2-2 record in 14 games with the meetings. On the agenda were dis­new teams. 

Dodgers last season. 

cussions of three division play and 
l~~,..$.~f~~.,~~--.';)~:Wtl".::•.:!<;KCK~':!::~
The Cleveland Indians sent out­revenue sharing, among other items.
fielder Jorge Orta and two minor When the Dodgers dropped No votes were taken yesterday.
leaguers to Los Angeles for pitcher 
I WINTER W£LCUME W~EK '821
Sutcliffe, a 6-foot-6, 225-poundRick Sutcliffe and second baseman 

right-hander, from their list of 1 Start your semester out r~ht 1
In another trade, OaklanuJack Perconte. 
eligible players for the playoffs and 

swapped pitcher Rich Bordi to theThe Indians sent Orta, who batted 
World Series, he got into an bitter Seattle Mariners for third baseman­.272 last season, along with minor 

argument with Manager Tom II All week: I ~ 
outfielder Dan Meyer. Bordi spentleaguers Jack Fimple, a catcher, and Lasorda and reportedly broke some 1981 at Tacoma where he was 9-1 I pitcher Larry White, to the Dodgers 
furniture in the clubhouse. I Snow Football I
with a 3.68 ERA Meyer batted .252
for Sutcliffe, the I979 National 
with three home runs and 22 runs 5. Coed teams of 6 I
League Rookie of the Year, and Per­conte, a promisingsecond baseman. 
Dave Garcia, manager of the In­batted in for the Mariners. Fimple batted .288 at Waterloo 
dians, took note of that, saying, "I ~ ]anuary 14 : ~ and White was I0-12 with a 3.51 The Chicago Cubs designated for
don't know him, but I know I'm not gonna talk back to him." 

Tubing at Bendix I
earned run average at Chattanooga assignment outfielders Mike Lum and Jim Tracy and second baseman ~ No char"c01 w! 
~ 
Steve Dillard. The Cubs were three 
· transportationprovided J~ 
players over the 40-man limit after
S Cubed wins i-hall 
completing a tive-player trade with Philadelphia and signing free agent ~ Sign up now with the I pitchers Bill Campbell and Ferguson M ~
1Student Union secretary. 1
Jenkins on Tuesday.
co -rec volleyball
.,.. 

1Deadline is Dec. 14 1 
St. Louis acquired two veteran pitchers with major league 
~ Any questions, j
eperience from the Mexican League. Eric Rasmu t ssen and Vicente Romo were both assigned to the Cardinals' 
~~~~::,::v.:.:~~~,:~~~v-~:~,~,~~::~-,,· . .I
.......~~........~~.....~......,.....~'7···;.-..;................ '"'......~,...~.::,....,.. . .~y~~
Class AAA affiliate at Louisville.
Inside Interhall 

In an exciting match last night at the tieldhouse, SCubed-captured the interhall Co-Ree Volleyball championsip, 15-5, 17-15. S Cubed commanded the first game with great individual effort by Rich Cor­dova. As captain Pam Gorski stated, "Rich is our star player and he really came through for us. That is the best we've ever played." The 
'13ke the EASY RIDER•••United Limo to t1 from 
intensity exhibited in the second game was exactly what it took to 
win. Dion's Dinkers were down in that game by a score of 14-8 at one 
Chicago's O'Hare••• every 2hours -every day! 
time, but with remarkable hustle reeled offsix unanswered points to 
tie the score 1-f-14. In the end, though, S Cubed took the tlnale with 
LEAVE 

LEAVE LEAVE ARHIVE ARRIVE ARRIVE 

MIDWAY 
LEAVE 
BIG BEAR LEAVE 

MICHIANA MICHIANA ARRIVE 

BIG BEAR ARRIVE MIDWAY

good team work and execution, 17-1 5.Jill Strenzel, playing for Dion, 
MOTOR LODGE 
MISHAWAKA 
TOWN & NOTRE REGIONAL ARRIVE REGIONALLEAVE NOTRE TOWN & 

MISHAWAKA 

MOTOR LODGE 
ELKHART 
OFFICE

and a 14-year veteran of the sport said, "We never really played our 
COUNTRY DAME AIRPORT O'HARE O'HARE P.IRPORT 

OAME COUNTRY OFFICE ELKHART 

game". As teammate Barb Walker put it,"the reaction of the players 
4:45a.m.­
5:00a.m. 
5:15a.m. 

5:30a.m. 
5:45a.m.; 7:00a.m. 

8:00a.m. 
11·15 a.m. 
11:Ju a.m. 
11:45 a.m. 
12:00 noon 12:15 p.m.

5:45a.m. 
6:00a.m.

and the teamwork just weren't there for us." The two teams tlnished 
6:15a.m. 

6:30a.m. 
6:45a.m. 


1 45 p.m.
8:00a.m. 

10:30 a.m. 
2:00p.m. 
2:15p.m. 
2 30 p.m. 

2:45p.m.7:45a.m. 
8:00a.m_ 
8:15a.m. 

8:30a.m_ 
8:45a.m. 
10:00 a.m. 

12 30 p.m. 
3 45 p.m. 
4:00p.m. 
4:15p.m 
4 45 p.m.
4:30p.m.

out ofa tleld ofabout 24 and are both deserving ofcongratulations. 
9:45a.m. 
10:00 a.m. 
10:15 a.m. 

10:30 a.m. 
10.45 a.m. 
12:00 noon 2:30p.m. 

5 45 p.m. 
6:00p.m. 
6:15p.m. 
6:30p.m. 
6:45p.m.

11:45 a.m. 
12:00 noon 
12:15 p.m. 

12:30 p.m. 
12:45 p.m. 
2:00p.m. 

4:30p.m. 
7 45 p.m. 
8:00p.m. 
8:15p.m. 
8:45p.m.
8:30p.m


1:45 p.m. 
2:00p.m. 
2:15p.m. 

2:30p.m. 
2:45p.m. 
4:00p.m. 

6:30p.m. 
9 45 p.m. 
10:00 p.m. 
10:15 p.m. 
10:30 p.m. 

10:45 p.m.3:45p.m. 
4:00p.m. 
4:15p.m. 

4:30p.m. 
4 45 p.m. 

11 45 p.m.
6:00p.m. 

8:30p.m. 
12:00 MID 12:15 a.m. 
12:30 a.m. 
12:45 a.m. 

5:45p.m. 
6:00p.m. 
6:15p.m. 

6:30p.m. 
6:45p.m. 
8:00p.m. 

10 30 p.m. 
1 45 a.m. 
2 00 a.m. 
2:15a.m. 
2:45a.m.
2:30a.m. 

We stop at every pick -up point on every !rip!
The offfice of Non-Varsity Athletics reminds all intramural basket­
United Limo

Free parking at our lot; deliver to your airline at 0' Hare, pick -up at 
ball players that the date of first games is rapidly approaching. All 
lower level Carson's Restaurant; fully licensed; passenger and McKinley &Bittersweet Michiana Regior~•
players must have their insurance forms filed in the Non-Varsity Ath­
baggage insured; ICC permit. 
Mishawaka· Airport Oft:-. 

letics Office in Room C-2 ofthe Athletic and Convocation Center by 
Allow one hour from our arrival time to flight time. Please make 255-3068 234-6600
?p.m. on the day oftheir first game. All players must provide proofof 
reservations 24 hours in advance. Ask about special charter rates. or call your Travel Agent 
msurance. There will be no exceptic':~.s. Players must also remember to bring their ID cards to the first-round games. 

Even Bob Lemon doesn't know the next move in the New York Yankees revolving manager game. (AP Photo) 



The Observer -Sports Thursday, December 10, 1981 -page 9 
Sportsboard 
The Notre Dame hockey team, fresh off' a sweep tonight. (Photo byjohn Macor) ofMiami, faces second-place Northern Michigan 
Beat Devils, Boilers 
Cavs , Cards both win again 
Smith was sent to the free throw line Fr~shman jimmy Miller and sopho­
CHARLOTTESVILLE, Va. (AP) ­
when he was fouled by Mike Scearce more Othdl Wilson, with a little 
as he drove the: baseline with seven hdp from All-American Ralph 
seconds to go. "We had a play set up for the lastSampson, keyed a late Virginia surge as th~ fifth-rank~d Cavaliers 

shot," said C t rum. "We couldn't get it ov~:rcamt· l>ukt•'s Blue Devils 92-83 
to the man we wanted and Derek ended up with the ball.

in c.:ollcge basketball last night. 
"I didn't object to Derek takingThe nmqut·st t·nablcd Virginia to the shot. It was just I didn't want himrt·main unbeat~:n at 6-0 and dropp~:d to take it with 7 seconds lc:ft. Thatl>uk~: to 1-5. It was tht· Atlantic Coa~t (:onkrl'IKe opent·r for both teams. 

gave Purdue time to get down and Miller, a 6-toot-H forward, scored 
score iflw missed," Crum said. 2h points -18 in the senmd half­
Smith missed the foul shot, hut whik Wilson tallkd 18 -1-t after 
Wiley Brown rebounded it and, with intermission. 
li>ur seconds remaining, went hack Milkr and Wilson t·omhined for 
up with a short jumper to seal the game l()r 1 he Cardinab.

("7 straight Cavalin points late in the The winning 1ohot was tht· onlygame as Virginia o\Trcamt· an c.:ight· point ddkit to heat Duke li)r the 
basket of the night li>r Brown. a (;. llhh Mraight time. 
li)ot-H senior. 

A pair of trtT throws hy Duke's Vinn· Taylor, who led all scorers with -~I points. \\ ith I 5:2H to play 
• • • Test
g:tvc Duke a 1oix-point kad at 'i9-'i5. 
some over-the-hack calls on them. hut when you're on tht· roac.l, you have to do that mon· to keep from getting reaching fouls yourself than anything else." 
Tonight's contest, which will he 
played  in  l 'i.OOO  seat  Hinkk  
Fieldhouse, is slated  to  get under­ 
way at 7 p.m.  

Last year·~ game, the second of DiStanislao's Notre Dame coaching career, was the only previous meeting between tht· two schools. 
l·oupt>rl and their ~IUdt·nt ID to 
Bud or Busch 3399

the gatemen at hockey or basket­hall games. 
Michelob 37 99 

lntert·stt·d students should The Cardinals, raising their record 
to 3-0 for the season, rallied from a 
seven-point deficit in the first half 
and a fiw-point hole in the final 
period. 

"We made a lot of mistakes early in the game and we gave up a lot of back door layups and things like that. We thought we played a lot . ht·ter defense in tht· second half" Crum said. 
Three straight haskc:ts by Lancas-. tcr Gordon and two straight by Milt \Vagrwr hdpcd Louisville to a 69-6'i lead with four minutes to go, but two free throws hy Kevin Stallings and a haskt·t hy Scearce tkd the game li>r the Boilermakl·rs. 
A stuff shot hy Smith put Louisville: alwad again hdi>rc Cros~ hit his two I(>UI shots to tit· the game: 
BASEBALL 
American League 

CLEVELAND INDIANS acquired Scali Munn1n 
ghoff. pitcher. from the Ph1ladelph1a Ph1ll1e•·.. player 
named late tn the trade whtch sent Bo Dta 1lcher. 
to Ph1ladelph1a. Ass1gned Munmnghoff to ' leston 
of the International League 
NEW YORK YANKEES acquired M1ke Lebo. 
catcher. from the Toronto Blue Jays as the player to 
be n&.ned later '" the trade wh1ch sent Aurel11: Rodn· 
quez. th1rd baseman. to Toronto. Assrgn(1d Lebo to 
Columbus ol the International League 
SEATTLE MARINERS traded Dan M<•y· 1 third 
baseman-outfielder, to the Oakland A 8 A1ch 
Bord1. p1tcher. Traded Rusty McNealy, ou1t1e1· ·"·and 
T1m Hallgren. pitcher. to the Oakland A 8 : Roy Thomas. p1tcher Ass1gned Thomas to Sa' .Ke of the Pacific Coast League National League CHICAGO CUBS des1gnated M1ke Lum. m.'l1elder. and Steve D1llard. 1nf1elder. lor reass1gnmen 
HOUSTON ASTROS traded Gary Woods. outfiel­der. from Tucson of the Pac1l1c Coast League to Iowa of the Amencan Assoc!atton for J1m Tracy. outftelder 
PITTSBURGH PIRATES named John L1pon manager of their Alexandna team tn the Carohna League Named Dan Warthen p1tch1ng coach of Alexandna ST. LOUIS CARDINALS acquired Enc Rasmussen. pttcher. from Yucatan of the Mextcan League. and V1cenre Ramo. p11cher. from Coal­zacoalcos of the Mexrcan League. and assrgned them to Lousrvtlle of the International League 
BASKETBALL 

National Baaketball Aaaoclatlon 
BOSTON CEL TICS activated Danny A1nge. guard 
Sold the contracl ol Tracy Jackson. guard. to the 
Chicago Bulls. 
KANSAS CITY KINGS placed Joe C Menweather. 
center. on the tnjured hst. Acttvated Hawkeye Whrt­
ney. forward. from the InJured hst 
MILWAUKEE BUCKS s1gned Marques Johnson. 
forward. to an etght·year contract 
FOOTBALL 
National Football League 

CINCINNATI BENGALS reactivated M1ke 
Obravac. oHensrve tackle. from the InJured reserve 
hst. Wa1ved Brad Oates. offens1ve tackle 
CLEVELAND BROWNS s1gned Gary Dav1s. run· 
nmg back Placed Curtis Weathers. lmebacker. on the 
tntured reserve Its! 
HOCKEY 
National Hockey League 

MONTREAL CANADIENS traded Serge Serge Savard defenseman. to the Wmn1peg Jets for future considerations 
COLLEGE DELTA STATE named J1mmy Parker head toolball coach 
''i!iBASKETBALL 
College Basketball 

Last Night's Scores Sl Joe s (lnd )96. N E IllinOIS 78 Geotgotown 83 St Leo 37 North Carolma St. 66. Appala1ch1an Sl 38 
-·.--­

1;fW~~tFOO TBALL.M1:&Y 
NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE NATIONAL CONFERENCE Eaat 
.... 
w L T Pet. PF PA y-Dallas tl 3 0 786 336 254 Ph1ladelph1a 9 5 0 643 320 200 NY G1ants 7 7 0 500 262 237 St LOUIS 7 7 0 500 305 350 Washington 6 8 0 429 279 328 
Central Tampa Bay 8 6 0 57! 272 227 Detro1t 7 7 0 500 335 295 Green Bay 7 7 0 500 266 326 
M1nnesota 7 7 0 500 3!2 314 Ch1cago 4 10 0 286 195 294 West x-San FranCISCO tl 
3 0 786 308 227 Atlanta 7 7 0 500 382 304 Los Angeles 5 9 0 .357 275 305 'Jew Orleans 4 10 0 286 !83 322 
AMERICAN CONFERENCE East 
w L T Pet. PF PA M1dm1 9 4 1 679 312 262 Bullaln 9 5 0 643 286 250 
NY Jets 6 5 1 607 313 271 New England 2 12 0 143 291 326 Balltmore 1 13 0 71 222 474 Central Ctnctnnall 10 4 
0 7t4 374 266 Pillsburgh 8 6 0 571 326 259 
--<
Houston 6 6 0 429 254 307 Cleveldnd 5 9 0 357' 242 319 Weal Denver 9 
5 0 643 274 24t Kdnsa~ C1ty B 6 0 571 326 267 San Doego 8 6 0 571 431 357 Oakland 7 
7 0 500 257 297 Seatlle 5 9 0 357 267 344 K·Cflnched diVISIOn lt!Je y-quahlied lor pia yells Saturday'a Games N Y Jets al Cleveland Mmnesota at Detroit Sunday'a Games Balllmorf1 at Washmgton Buffalo at New England C1ncmnatt at P!Hsburgh Green Bay at New Orleans N Y G1an1s al St LOUIS San D1ego al Tampa Bay Mtamt at Kansas C1t y Ch1cad~ at Oakland Houston at San Franc1sco Ph1ladelph1a at Dallas SeaHie at Denver Mond•y·a Game Atlanta al Los Angeles 


And Enjoy Lower Priees! 

White Velvet Vodka 
ULI!IUj 

Ron Cruzada Rum 
tifi!tCl 


Lm11SVrllc 73. Purdue 71 T em pie 54. South Carolina 51 Morquetle 75. Old Dom1n10n 70 (OT) Virgtma 92 Duke 83 
NBA 

Eastern Confer,  ·e  
Allanllc Dlvlai<  
w  
Ptuladelph1a  16  3  
Boston  16  4  
New York  9  9  
Wash1ngton  6  12  
New Jersey  5  t4  
Central Dlvlalon  
Milwaukee  13  6  
Indiana  11  9  
Atlanta  8  10  
DetrOit  8  11  
Ch1cago  8  12  
Cleveland  5  14  

Pet. GB 642 800 5 .500 65 333 95 263 11 
.684 
550 25 444 4 5 421 5 400 55 263 8 Weatern Conference Mldweat Dlvlalon 
w  L  
San Anton1o  14  5  
Denver  8  t1  
Utah  8  12  
Kansas C1ty  7  12  
Houston  7  14  
Dallas  4  t6  
Paciltc Divlat on  
Los Angeles  16  6  
Golden State  t2  7  
Portland  12  7  
Phoemx  11  7  
Seattle  tl  6  
San D1ego  612  6  
Yealerday'a Reaulta  

Boston 109. New Jersey tOO Philadelphia t 37. Denver I09 lnd1ana I I 3. Utah 77 Cleveland t 12. Atlanta 1 08 (OT) Milwaukee 89. Houston 83 San Antomo I 10. Seattle 99 Kansas C1ty t t3. Dallas !09 (OT) Golden State I34. Phoemx I 27 
Today'a Gamea New York al DetrOII Portland at Phoenix 
Pet. GB 737 421 6 400 65 368 7 
.333 8 .200 10 5 
727 .632 2.5 .632 2.5 
Sit 3 ..... 
.579 3.5 990 ·298 

lo21 South Bend Ave. 
check with their hall prc:sidt·nt to 
call us for all your party needs! 233-4603 
locate their hall representative. 
Roseland 272-2522 
The Observer 
..... 

Bob Crable is one of four finalists 
for the Lombardi Award for college 
football's outstanding lineman or 
linebacker, which will be awarded 
tonight. 
But Crable will be the first finalist 
in the 12-year history of the Lom­
bardi trophy to miss the S12 5-plate 
benefit dinner. The Fighting Irish 
team captain elected to remain in 
South Bend to attend the team's 
football banquet. 
The other finalists an: defensive 
end Billy Ray Smith of Arkansas, 
guard Scan Farrell of Penn State and 
tackle Kenneth Sims ofTexas. 
Sims suffered a broken ankle 
against Texas Christian and won't be 
able to play in the Cotton Bowl 
when the Longhorns take on Alabama's Crimson Tide. Smith, the only junior among the finalists, is completing a round of 
banquets before returning to Razor­back workouts in prt·paration for a Gat:>r Bowl appearance against North Carolina. 
'Til miss four practices. I hope I get to start," Smith joked. 
Farrell, 6-:3, 265, is the first player in 20 years to start three seasons for the Nittany Lions. A natiw of Wcs­thamntnn Beach, N.Y. Farrell wa~ a second team AP All-America pick last season and earned first team 

honors this season. 
The Lombardi Award is named in honor of the former Green Bay and Washington coach who died ofcan­cer in 1970. 
Pittsburgh's Hugh Green won the 1980 Lombardi Award. 
Tickets available 
A limited number ofindividual game tickets remain available for four games on the 1981-'82 Notre Dame home basket­ball schedule. Tickets are on sale at Gate I 0 of the ACC for the Val­paraiso (Dec. 21 ), Davidson (Jan. 16), Maine (Jan. 27) and Northern Iowa (Mar. 2) contests. There is no limit to the number of tickets an individual may purchase. All tickets are bleacher seats at S4.50 each. -The Observer. 
BARCLAY'S FRESH APPROACH: 
NOW YOU
CAN 
AFFORD TOBE 

Dig into the menu broiled in our that won't sink your special barbe­budget. cue sauce. for 
Talk about a fresh StJ.oS. Or. a approach. we think beefy Rib Eye you'll find more on Steak. cut from our menu for the the prime rib money than any­and charcoal where in town. And oroiled to capture there's enough all the outdoor fla­variety to enjoy a vor. .I ust 56.7':>. And different selection all our dinners come every night for two with all the home­weeks! made soup you 
For instance. try want. special gar-a tender one-half lic bread. and your BBQ Chicken in choice of our rice. our own ,tangy bar­home fries or haked 
becue sauce. just p1>tato. 
S4.9::.. Or. our So drop by and 
Hearty Prime Rib eat up on some low 
hones. slowly prices. 


-·-------------------------­Thursday, December 10, 1981 -page 10 
Jackson joins '0', sold to Chicago 
be partial to the former Irish tri­
By SKIP DESJARDIN 
captain.

Associate Sports Editor 
"Most of our people really liked him when they saw him in college,"
Former Notre Dame basketball Sloan said yesterday when asked
stars Orlando Woolridge and Tracy about the possibility of Jackson
Jackson have been reunited. The Chicago Bulls of the NBA acquired 
joining the squad. Celtic President Red Aurbach said
Jackson last night from the Boston he hated to part with Jackson, but
Celtics for an undisclosed amount of NBA regulations require that players
cash. on the active roster as of Dec. ·21
Jackson became expendable 
when Celtic guard M. L. Carr remain on the roster throughout the returned to action after an injury se'ason. and Boston signed rookie forward Jackson had not played in the eel­
Danny Ainge to a multi-year con-tics' last two games, and had ap­tract. · peared in only one of their last six 
"My concern is that I don't know contests. On the ~cason, the Silver how he'll ever g('t into a game with Springs, 'VId. native had scored 26 us the way Ray Blume has been points in I I games. playing," said Bulls' General For a time last week, it seemed Manager Rod Thorn. that the Celtics would keep jackson 
But the situation in Chicago is not and release or deal another ~uard. that bleak for Jackson. The 6-5 guard Jackson had played far better than will be a good hedge against the pos-Ainge in practice sessions prior to sibk departun:: of the Bulls' Rick~y the former Toronto Blue Jays' Sobers. second baseman officially joined the 
Sobers is a free agent, and could team. However, in the end. Boston sign with another team in the spring. decided to keep Terry Duerod and Bulls' Coach.Jerry Sloan is known to trade Jackson to Chicago. 

,................•............• 
• ,Jl":\IOR PARE~TS' \VEEKEXD • 
Attef1tiof1 Juf'liors if you did f'lot recieve the first JPW mailif'lg at home, you ca., pick of'le up if'l the studef'lt activities office first floor LaFortuf'le 
• 


·-----------=~-~-:-:-=,.,....,=""" F
The Observer ­
T0 da~===============T=h=u:;r=sd=a=y=,=D=e=ce=m=b=e=r=l=O=,=19=8=1==p=ag=e=;:ll 
Molarity 



WELL, 50M£ fOr< PUE'5 5A!<E, 
IIXJMCN OOV'T. EtiJEi If (IJ()MCIJ 
5Et, THEY FftL WN7 WANT IT, lii£N 7Hn:ATmW BY I)}HA7'5 7H/3 f{}/NF WHAT 7HE.Y.. 7Ht WHat 7H!N6'S 
"­


Michael Molinelli 
Campus 
YOU HAY f(E.LE"I\5t: -rnr=.s£ >'ouR RELA.flVHY iJAAf1LfS.S [)OHERS WHo HAV£ FI\L.L£N INTO qRO:AI i)I.JJIY.,T M15ra{TVrJ£ 

The Daily Crossword 
©1981 by Chicago Tribune-NY. News Synd. Inc. All Rights Reserved 



•

•10 
a.m.· 4 p.m.-Christmas Sale, Hand crafted pottery hy ND graduate students, O'Shaughnessy Great Hall 

•10 
a.m.-10 p.m. -Christmas Sale, Arts and crafts bcnititing· St. Marita Primary Day School, Memorial Library Concourse 

• 
I 2: I"> p.m. -Noontalk,''A Sticky Lecture", Don Vogel, <>'Shaughnessy Galleries 

• 
12::30 p.m. -Film, "Politics of Torture·", Little Theatre. LaFortune, Sponsort·d by Amnesty Inter· national 

•s: 
I 'i p.m. -Mass, Mass for Human Rights, Fr. Theodore Hesburgh. C.S.C., celchrant, Sacred Heart Church. All arc welcome 

•5::)0 
p.m. -Football Banquet, Social Hour at S::)O, Dinner at 7:00, ACC 

•6::)0 
p.m. -Meeting, AIESEC gc:ncral mcc:ting, Lafortune Little Theatre 

•7::30 
p.m.-Meeting, Faculty Senate, 202 Center for Continuing Education 

•7::30 
p.m.-Lecture, Ncrri Barrientos on Human Rights, Memorial Library Lounge:, Sponsored hy Amnesty International. All arc welcome: 


Television 

31 On land 
1 Ragout 36 Old port 
5 Snakes of Rome 
9 Soup 38 Bridge seat 
14 Type of 40 Bird: Lat 
duck 41 Theatrical 
15 Shoe part cliche 
16 Woodworking 44 Fertile 
item soil 
17 Vicinity 45 Consumer 
18 Ballistic 46 Stage 
missile whisper 
19 Flower 47 Certain 
20 Caesar-Coca Arab 
TV vehicle 49 Paper 
23 Sweet stack 
24 Moist 52 Newsmen, 
25 Owns for short 
28 Tolled 54 Poor grade 
Wednesday's Solution 

7:00p.m. 
7:30p.m. 
8:00p.m. 
8:30p.m. 
finish way 
9:00p.m.
65 Thoughts 26 "Forwant 66 Solo of-.." 67 Book 27 Vapor 68 Fracas 29 Evangel 69 Fluff 30 Betting 70 Tied man 71 Ruhrcity 32 Crones 
9:30p.m. 72 Fountain 33 Elliptical or Rose 34 -Janeiro 73 Landlord's 35 Peons of 
10:00p.m.
due old 37 Woe-! 
DOWN 39 Of course! 1 Kill 42 Louise de 2 Source Ia Ramee 
of poi 43 Gentled 3 Australian 48 Famed bird: var. admiral 
10:30 4 Tired 50 Attached 5 Breathing · from birth 
11:00 p.m. disorder 53 Indian 6 London trophy district 55 Chemical 7 Do a farm compound 
job 56 Sagacious 8 Antelope 57 March date 
11:30 p.m. 
9 Dynamites 58 Tennis 10 Foolhardy items 11 German 59 Party 
emperor snack 12 Sinew 60 Great Lake 
12:00 a.m. 13 Towel 61 Slangy 
word negative 21 Abraham's 62 Moved, 
12:30 a.m. 
spouse nautically 22 Accomplish­63 Portent ments 64 Left 
Tonight 
16  MASII  
22  CBSNc:ws  
28  joker's Wild  
34  The MacNdl/Lehn:r Re·port  
46  Mirade Rc:vivalllour  
16  Allin The· l'amily  
22  Family h·u.d  
28  Tic Tac Dou~:h  
34  Strai~:ht Talk  
46  W. V. Grant  
16  The \X'allons  
22  A Charlie Brown <:hristmas Special  
28  Rudolph's Shiny Ne·w Ye·ar  
34  Sneak Prevkws  
46  Lestn Sumrall Te·adlin!(  
22  CBS Special: Dorothy in the· Lmd of  
Oz  
34  .\1ichigan Outdoors  
46  Pattc·rn l'or Living  
16  Diffrent Strokes  
22  Knots Landin!(  
28  Barnc·y :\Iiiia  
34  Cama 1 a Three  
46  Today with Lester Sumrall  
16  (;inllne A Brc·ak  
28  Taxi  
34  The· \\'oodwri!(hl's Shop  
16  Ifill Strc·et Bluc·s  
22  CBS Special: Johnnr Cash's <:hrbtmas  
in Scotland  
28  20/20  
34  Masterpkce Theater  
46  jack Van lmpe  
46  l'aith For Today  
16  Nc·wsCl·nter 16  
22  22 Eyewitness Nc·ws  
28  Newswatch 2H  
34  The I>it'k·Cavc·tt Show  
46  Praise The Lord  
16  Tonight Show  
22  Quincy/The Saint  
28  ABC News Night lim·  
34  Captioned ABC News  
28  Vc·gas  
46  Lester Sumrall Tl·aching  
16  Tomorrow Coast To Coast  
28  ABC News Night line  
46  Sharing  

• 

specials include: egg nog &brandy strawberry daiquiris hot chocolate schnapps 
X-Mas presents will be given away don't miss it 9:30-2:00 


Thursday, December 10, 1981 -page 12 
leers face Northerntonight 
are not entirc:ly good against the nine opportunities, the: Irish im­Wildcats, especially considering proved their proficiency in the: man­their long list ofheralded personnel. advantage situation to a respectable For instance, in only 14 games this 31 percent.
will year, sophomore winger Dave A major factor in that develop­,'.togush has recorded 2 I goals -ment was the pleasant suprbe easily best in the league. Three of provided by Smith's new line of Rex th;>se goals came in the October Bellomy, John Higgins, and Brent series with the Irish, and it is likely Chapman. The three combined for that Smith will have his team on the four goals and six assists in the lookout for an encore performance, series, and Smith was visibly pleased 

Unfortunately, \1ogush is not a with their pt·rformance. one man show, evidenced bv the The play of Notre Dame's first lint: fact that junior capatin Eric P<;nath also put a smile on Smith's face, as has :36 total points, also the best out­Dave Poulin, Jeff Perry and Billthe put in the CCHA. From there, the Rothstein dented the nets withby 
Wildcat offensive output slows seven goals between them. Un­down somewhat, but there is little doubtedly, the play of this line will 
doubt that some top talent exists on directly affect the outcome of the this defending league champion seric .s. team. Whether Smith will split goaltend­
Another reason behind North­ing chores as he did last week is un­ern's 9-3-1 record is its goaltending kown at this point, but in either staff. With the likes of Jeff Poeschl Dave Laurion and Bob \1cNamara, and Bruno Campese, Coach Rick he will get a steady performer. Comley has two of the best netmin­Once again, the Irish have a toughare, however, in prime position for .ders in the business. Poeschl was task before them, and it will take oneadvancement, as only three games against average well below three. He proved himself worthy of praise al­
sepc:rate them from a fourth-place standing. Prospects for upward movement  CCHA rookie-of-the-year last season, and has been more than steady thus far for the Wildcats. The freshman Campese, meanwhile, has literally  of their better efforts to tackle it suc­cessfully. The possibility will definitely be there if they can ex­hibit the more physical and heads­ 
set the league afire. He has compiled  up  play  that  was  shown  against  
a 7-0 record while posting a goals  Miami.  

Irish women face yet another test 
ready to the Irish when he stopped 44 shots on the way to a 3-2 win in
Overconfidence probably would Pipenbrink is the leading Butler
By MARK HANNUKSELA 
the ACC on October 30.
be a natural reaction for a team com­rebounder, averaging 10.:3 rebounds
Sports Writer 
The Irish are counting on a
ing off a 6:3-point win. But this team per game. Purvlicis ( 9.0) and senior 
revitalized state of mind to propel
has something to prove. It wants to Cheryl Kovalow ( 7.5) follow in that
As if finals aren't soon enough, them to success against Northern, asbecome a national Division I power. department.
Mary DiStanislao's women's basket­last weekend's sweep of Miami is
Already, DiStanislao's club has "Their big people get a lot of of­
ball team should have a test awaiting still fresh in their memory. That
begun the transition. Five freshmen fensive rebounds," says DiStanisiao,
them tonight when they travel to In­series showed some marked
have made significant contributions "so obviously we're going to have to
dianapolis for a date with Butler Uni-progress in Notre Dame's powerplayin Notre Dame's first three games,~ versity. 
I'nit, a missing link in the team up toSee TEST, page 9led by Tempe, Az., native RuthThe Lady Bulldogs, a 60-51 that point. By converting on four of
Kaiser, the leading Irish scorer. return I I letter winners from last Kaiser has scored 42 points in the year's Division II state champion. three games, which averages to 14 
winner over the: Irish last season, 
For UCLA, Miami 
Coach Linda Mason's club, 26-2 a per game. Right behind her is junior 
INSIDE: 
Jackson -p. 10 Crable -p. 10 Baseball -p. 8 Basketball -p. 9 

year ago, will enter tonight's contest center Shari Matvey, who has tallied 
with a perfect 3-0 mark after 40 points, while freshman Carrie 
Don't bother with tears 
registering wins over Valpraiso, In­Bates, Notre Dame's third double­
dianapolis Central and Indiana­figure scorer, averages 12.0. Shed a tear for Larry Farmer. While you're at it, cry a 

::. :· .:.
Purdue at Imdianapolis ( IUPUI ). Another freshman, Mary Beth little for Howard Schnellenberger, too. 
"They've played together before, Schueth, is Notre Dame's rebound In the past three weeks, Notre Dame fans have been Skip Desjardinsays DiStanislao, "and experience is leader, having hauled down nearly subjected to the snivelings of these two men. They always a factor when you have up­I 0 rebounds per game. were not whining about bad officiating, nor about the Associate· s Editor perclassmen playing against fresh­Two players have averaged manner in which their teams played -for in each case 
men. Plus, it's always tough to win double figures for a Butler team that 
they won big. on the road, because everybody al­has averaged nearly 81 points per No, the coaches were bemoaning the fact that their ways psyches to beat Notre Dame. game. 
teams are facing NCAA probation for cheating. will not be allowed to participate in the NCAA tou~na­"I just hi>pe we're not riding the Sophomore Elza Purvlicis leads "lt's an unfortunate situation," says Farmer, who yes-ment this coming spring. crest of any overconfidence that the Lady Bulldogs with a I 5_7 
terday called the NCAA investigation nit-peking. "But, Big de;U. The Bruins will still be allowed to go to the ,... may have resulted from Tuesday's scoring mean. Beth Pipenbrink, a 
it's something we are going to have to live with. We will NIT and clean house on the Toledos and Austin Peays of game." junior, is scoring at a 13.3 clip. 
just have to pul together, play like a team, and the world. Then, what about the second year of the overcome this adversity." probation? For all intents and purposes, it doesn't exist. Schnellenberger voiced many of the same thoughts The Bruins will be allowed to be on TV and they'll go to two weeks ago in Miami. "It's a damn shame this team the NCAA tourney. There's no real punishment here at
Ticket office plans 
can't go to a bowl game. We are one ofthe best teams in all. the country, and we deserve a chance to prove that. But Oh, I almost forgot. UCLA's second-place finish in the this is as close as we'll get. That's too bad." NCAAs two years ago will be nullified.
to fill empty seats 
That's not too bad, buddy. That's life. Who is the NCAA kidding? I remember the game be-By MICHAEL ORTMAN ticket office and the HPC to get 
When you cheat, you run the risk ofgetting caught. tween UCLA and Louisville, the school has probably Sports Editor tickets to those who want to use 
To be fair, many of the 66 violations that the NCAA spent the money it made on the game and the players them. "This system allows a stu­
cited in its case against the University of Miami took have the personal satisfaction of having gotten to the In an effort to reduce the num-dent who owns a basketball or 
place before Schnellenberger came on the scene. But at finals. Does the NCAA really think making the school ber of students disguised as hockey student season ticket, 
least some ofthe success that the Hurricanes are enjoy-give back the trophy -as if the game never happened empty seats at Notre Dame bas-and elects not to attend a game, 
ing can be directly attributcd to players that were part -is a deterrent to other schools? ketball and hockey games, the to give up the individual game 
of those irregular practices. "I really can't have my head down or be ashamed, University's ticket office is coupon," Orsini eplains, "so a 
As for liCLA, take Farmer's comments with a grain of because there's nothing for me to be ashamed about" working with representatives of fellow-student or an outside 
salt. He doesn't have the alibi that Schnellenberger has. said Farmer. "If they'll penalize UCLA, I guess nobody:s the 23 dorms on campus in a charity group may attend." 
He's been at UCLA for years, and it's hard to believe hc immune." voluntary student ticket ex-Among the charities that could 
was absolutely unaware ofwhat was going on. Therein lies the problem. Major colleges always think change program. take advantage of available tick-
If he knew UCLA was cheating, he deserves all the they are too good to be disciplined. Well, UCLA's lucky, "No-shows are never -a ets include the Logan Center, the 
heat he and the program are getting. If he was blind to they got less than they deserved. But at least they got problem for the UCLAs and the Big Brothers/Big Sisters program 
the rule-bending, he's too ignorant to be a major college something. San Franciscos," says ticket and the South Bend YMCA. 
coach. .UCLA and .\1iami are prime examples ofwhat's wrong manager Steve Orsini. "But for Students interested in taking 
"We're going to have to make the best ofa bad situa-wuh college athletics today. They are role models for the not-so-big-name opponents; part in this exchange program 
tion," Farmer told reporters Saturday. "I can't do any-schools to look up to when they want to cheat and get like Murray State and St_ Joe's, should understand the following 
thing about the NCAA's decision, so I'll have to live with away with it. These are two ofthe very few schools that there are students sitting home procedure: 
it. actually get caught, and all they get is a slap on the wrist. wishing they had a ticket, while The original student season 
''I'm just trying to be positive about the whole thing. Farmer and Schnellenberger should shut up and take others aren't using the tickets · ticket holder takes the U'bo/e 
I've told the players everything I know about what's what's coming to them -meager as it is. They got off they paid for." coupon booklet to their hall rep-
going on. Now we have to pull together, play like a easy. We don't feel sorry for them. They brought these The ticket exchange program, resentative, preferably before 
team, and forget about the outside world." problems upon themselves and their schools. The verv overwhelmingly supported by noon on game day. The hall rep-
Fear not, Larry. This "unfortunate situation" is not all least they could do is stop crying about how unfair th~ the Hall Presidents Council ear-
that bad. world is and look for ways to solve the problems at lier this year, is an effort by the See TICKETS, page 9 
As punishment for illegally recruiting several players, hand. 
__.~iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii~ii~~~~~iiii~iiiiii~.U~C~LA~~h~as~·~b~e~e~n~p~l~a~c~e~d~<~>n~a~t"~·~o~-y~e~a~r~p~r~o~b~a~t~il~>n~.~T~h~e~·}~·----~L~e~g~al~l}~'·._._._._._._._._._._._._._._._._._.._ 







