Sr. Marita 's -page 6
'
' ' 

VOL. X\ l, NO 6-an tnde-pe-ndent srudenr newspaper serving notre-dame and saint mary's 

174 die 

Airliner crashes in Corsica 
AJACCIO, Corsica (AP)-A char­
ten:d DC-lJ airliner carryin~ 16H 
Yugoslav tourists and six crew mem­
bers slammt·d into fog-shrouded 
mountains ;\0 miles from the airport 
here today and Ajaccio police said 
all aboard were killed. 
Tht·y said the wreckage of the 
Yugoslavian lnex-Adria Airways 
craft was found hy search parties on 
thc· slopes above Casa Casalahriva, 
about :\0 miles south of Ajaccio air­
port, nc·arly four hours after radio 
and radar t·ontact with the plane was 
lost. 
High winds and fog had hampered 
efforts to locate the downed plane, 
police said. 
Ajan:io police said the DC-l) na!'>hc·d on thc· wcM face of Mount San Pktro. Bodit:s wert.· sctttt.·rcd on the sicks oftht· mountain among the dt•hris ofthc· aircraft, they said. 
Civil defense worker!'> were taken to tlw scene hy police helkopter. 
Earhcr polil:c rcported spotting metallic dd1ris ncar Serra di Ferro, about 12 miles south ofAjaccio ncar thc wt·~t coast of this Mediterrant:an b!and. A hdicoptcr was ~ent to the st.Tnt·. Tht· pilot said ht.· ~aw "'something Mlspicious in the region, hill htgh winds prt:ventt:d him from landing. It was not immediately dc·ar if this was part ofthe wreckage. 
Villagers n:ported set:ing an aircraft appart:ntly in trouble and othns said tht·y llt'ard ont• or mort: t:xplosions, possibly as tht: ain.:raft naslll'd into .\1ount San Pietro. 

Tht: airnati sent a distrt:ss mt'S!'>agt: shortly heforc it was due to land at Ajaccio airport, control towt·r oftkials said. Tht· plant· was on tinal approath when tht: tower lost radio and radar contact with tht: nati, they said. 
Tht.· numhcr of people aboard the airliner was nmtirmcd otlkially in Yugoslavia, whcrc the one-day t:X­cursion to Corsica was or~anized hy thc· K0.\1PAS tourist company in Ljubljana. :\lost oftht· pt:oplc aboard the plane wert: believed to ht: Yugoslavian. 
The worst singk airplant: nash in history on:urrcd in France on March 3, ll)74, when a Turkish Airlines DC­I 0 crashed 26 miles northeast of 
WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 2, 1981 

Paris, killin~ :H6 pt:oplc. 
In July, llJ73, a Boeing "707 hdonging to tht: Urazilian airline Varig crashed in !lames ncar Orly Airport outsidt: Paris, killing 122 people. 
A month earlier, during the: ll)i3 Paris Air Show, a Sovkt supersonic Tupolcv 144 crasht:d whitt: attempt­ing an emergency landing during a demonstration !light. Eight crt:w members and nine pt:ople on the ground wt:re killed. 
The worst aviation disaster in his­tory occurred on March 27, llJ77 when Pan American and KL\1 hot:ing 747s collided on a runway on Santa Cruz de Tl·ncrift:, Canary Is­lands, killing 582 people. 

Teamsters make offer to trucking industry 
conct:rn that confronts us as we
WASIIINGTON (AP) The: negotiatt• this new contract is tht: ef­
Teamsters union handed new wagt: fect of dert:gulation on the trucking
demands to the tru<:king industry industry."
yesterday after assuring Prt:sident Williams has been indicted on a
Reagan it will be: "as reasonable: as charge: of conspiring to bribe: a
conditions will permit" in forging a st:nator on that issut:, an accusation
l'ontract that c.:ould sway his quest to ht: denies.
hold intlation beneath I 0 percent He said union leaders pointt:d out
The International Brotherhood of to Reagan that besides I20,000
Teamsters, tht: nation's largt:st uni­layoffs in truckin~. about 6,000
on, exchanged proposals \Vith Teamster union mt:mbers in the
Tru<:king Management Inc, on a airline industry art: out of work.
pan which would directly atl"ect Union leaders mt:l with industry
;\00,000 mt:mhcrs and set a pattern reprt:sentativcs at a suhurhan Wash­
for many others. Overall, the union ington hotel not long after the White
has 2 million members. House mt:eting.
l Inion leaders rcfust:d to disdosc The currt:nt thrt:e-year contract

immediately what wage and hc:nct1t demands would he made, hut 
bt:twecn the Tt:amstt:rs and the Tt:amstcr Prc:sidt:nt Roy Lee Wil­See PACT, page 4 
liams has voiced concern about poor tinancial conditions in tht: in­dustry that have forced the layoffs of 
Desegregation plan 

I .W,OOO members. The Whitt: Houst· had no im­mediate comment on Reagan's 



Kentucky State U. may close 
meeting with \li'illiams and tht: .21 

proposals have heen made since january wht:n tht:

Conway explains on -call 
U.S. Dt·partment of Education's Office of Civil Rights ordered the state to develop a plan to fully dest:grcgatc its public university system. 
All phases of the: plan have been submitled to the


termination to HPC 
by ROGER WILKE 
Nt!wsStaff 
Brian Conway. Srudent Security Commissionl'r, cxplaint:d to the I tall President's Council last night why the on-call numht:r ti>r the Student Escort Systc·m was discontinut:d. According to Conway, tht: service was stopped simply because: o,f lack 
of u~c. lit: added that the library es­cort servict: will continue. 
Anotht:r subject discusst:d at the: fiPC meeting was the usc of Christma.~ decorations on campus. 

mt:mhers of the Tcamstt·r t:xccurivt· 
By HERBERT SPARROW 
hoard. 

Associated Press 
But Williams said union kaders told Reagan thc·y hope he sun:t.·t:ds in turning tht: economy around. 
FRANKFORT. Ky. (AP)-Whc·n the federal govt:rn· "We assured the prcsidt:nt that in ment ordert:d Kentucky to dcvdop ·a plan to our upcoming negotiations which dt:sc·gn:gatt: its public colleges, did it want to turn Ken­begin today for the National Master tucky State University. the state's only traditionallvfreight Agreement aft(:cting some black school, into a two-yt:ar community collt:gc? · .\00,000 Tt:amstcrs. that we will bt: A decision this wet:k on tht· school's status bv Ken· as rcasonahk as conditions will per­tucky's Council on Hight:r Education could k;d to amit us to be." he said. 
legal hattlt: hetwcen the: state on one side and civil"But we will continut: to prott:ct rights groups and the fcdt:ral governmt:nt on the other.
the intt"rests of our member.; and The: central issue is what to do with Kentucky Start:, a tht:ir families," Williams added. "We 
small ( 2,300 enrollment) four-year school whert: a 
art: going to do what is best for our 
majority of its
mt:mbers and their families in the 
full-time, day stu­
bt:st way we know how." 
WEDNESDAYAJ,i~!
dents arc black.
Williams said: "one very serious 
Sevt:ral 

ltt~~@&w FOCUS 
OCR except the portion dealing with Kentucky State. 
Christmas decorations may only be 
The Council on Higher Education, which ovcrsc•t:s 
put up if they arc: flamt: retardant. 
Kentucky's university and college systt:m, meets 
Tht: HPC obtained a timmtla for 
Thursday to consider a rct.·ommcndation from a special 
making decorations tlamc: rt:tardant 
committt:c t(>rmed to study the problem of Kentucky 
hut tht: formula hasn't bct:n ap­
State:. 
provt:d hy the Campus Fire: Dc:part­
That committt:e, by a 3-2 vote, has recommended 
mcntyc·t. 

that Kentucky Statt: bt: turned into a two-yt:ar com­
Tht: HPC's "Container" proposal 
munity college within the Univt:rsity of Kentucky sys­
goc·s to the Student Scnatt: for ap­
tem. Proponents believe a community collegt: would 
proval tonight. If approved by tht: 
attract more whitt: students by offering evening classes 
Senate, the proposal will go to the: 
and part-time curriculum. 
Campus Lift-Council next Wc:dnes­
Such a move would be a radical dt:parture from what 
day. The HPC is hoping that the CLC 
other Southern states have done in respynst: to similar 
will support tht: keg policy and that 
desegregation orders. Most have spent millions of dol­
it will possibly run on a 'trial basis 
lars on improving the traditionally black schools in or­
next scmestt:r. 

der to attract white students. 
"Kentucky is the only state even considering closing 
a black school," said (jalen Martin, c:xccutivt: dirt:ctor of 
tht.· Kentucky Commission on Human Rights. 
And supportt:rs of Kc·ntucky Statt: say a community 
chllegt: was not what thc· ft-dt:ral government had in 
mind wht:n it dirt:ctt·d KenttKky to "c·nhanct:" tht· uni­
vt:rsity. 
"If anybody considt:rs the downgrading of a univer­sity to a community t'olkgc as an enhancement, then tht:ir dictionary dt:tinition of cnhanct:mt:nt is difft:rt:nt from mint:," said Louisvillt: attorney Raymond Burse, the: only black mt:mbt:r oftht: hight:r t:ducation council. 
Some mcmbt:rs of the black community have even stronger words for tht: proposaL The Rt:v. K.L Moore of Frankfort called it "unfair, ungodly and not right" to close KSll. 
"This is a racial issue:, no matter how some council 
members perceive it," said Martin. 
"We will not sit in silence and let it be closed," said 
Moore. 
Supporters of Kentucky State, including studt:nts, 
plan a rally tomorrow outsidt· the building where the 
council will mt:et and have: started a letter-writing cam­
paign to mt:mbers of the council. 
"We: hope to have thousands on hand," said the Rev. 
Richard Wilson of Louisville, executive director of the 
Kentucky Southern Christian Leadership Conference. 
If tht: council approves the community college con­
cept, it would still haw to be approved by Gov. John Y. 
Brown Jr., OCR and the state lc:gislaturt:. 
Tht: Human Rights Commission, the state chapter of 
the National Association for the Advanccmt.·nr of 
Colort:d People and others have vowed to tight any ef­
forts to dose Kentucky State in tht: courts. 
"We're going to fight this. We'll tight it to tht: very end," said Zachary Royal, the student member of the: KSU board of Rt:gents. 
Robert Bdl. an Ashland Oil Inc. c:xc:cutivt: and ti>rmer state natural resources secretary who formulated the community college: proposal, said ht: didn'toclieve the specific criteria used for other states were valid for Ken­tucky. 
He said only I 0 percent of Kentucky's black high 
See KSU, page 4 

•1 

~~--~--~-­

Wednesday, December 2, 1981-page 2


News Brie/§ 
.. 
l 
I 
c===~========~====================================~ 
by The Oh.rerver·and The As.rociatcd Pre.r.r 
Elie Wiesel, the widely-known holocaust survivor and author, will deliver a lecture tonight at 7:30p.m. in the Washington Hall auditorium at the University of Notre Dame. Wiesel's lecture, which is sponsored by the University of Notre Dame Press and scheduled in conjunction with the Press's publication of his new book, "Five Biblical Portraits," is entitled, "On the Literature of the Bible." The lecture is open to the public. Rev. Theodore Hesburgh, C.S.C., University president, will introduce Wiesel, who in 1979 was awarded an honorary degree from Notre Dame and who heads the 
U.S.. Holocaust Memorial Council on which Father Hesburgh also serves. Wiesel is the Andrew W. Mellon Professor of Humanities at Boston University and has written more than twenty books, includ­ing "Night," "Souls on Fire," "Messengers ofGod," and "Four Hasidic Masters and Their Struggle Against Melancholy," which was published in 1978 by the University of Notre Dame Press. -The Observer 
Legal Services ProgramofNorthern Indiana, Inc., headquartered in South Bend, Indiana, has announced that it is being forced to close three of its branch offices due to anticipated severe reductions in its budget. The Program receives its operating monies from the Legal Services Corporation in Washington, D.C., which, in turn, is funded by Congress. The Program provides free legal assis­tance in civil problems for low-income individuals who meet certain income guidelines. Legal Services Program of Northern Indiana, Inc. began an expansive program from the South Bend office in 1977, 
which ultimately resulted in the creation of four branch offices representing the civil legal needs of low-income individuals i~ twenty-four northern Indiana counties. While it is anticipated that the Legal Servict"s Corporation will survive this year, it will be under a substantially reduced budget. As a result ofthe anticipated budget cuts, it will be necessary to close branch offices in Michigan City, Kokomo, and Elkhart. The Michigan City and Elkhart offices will be consolidated with the branch office in Lafayette. Clients formerly served out of the Michigan City and Elkhart offices will now be handled through the South Bend office, and clients residing in the Kokomo service area will now be handled by the Lafayette office.Tbe 
Observer 
Founded in 1950 as the General Program of Liberal Education, the "great books" program of Notre Dame will undergo its second name change. Known for most ofits campus history as the General Program of Liberal Studies (or "GP" for short), the interdis­ciplinary course ofstudy will now be called, "The Program ofLiberal Studies." The word "General" was dropped because it confused Notre Dame's major with general education sequences found in the first two years of colleges and universities as well as in junior and community colleges. Program Chairman Walter Nicgorski has 
invited the 134 students now enrolled to suggest a new logo and subtitle for the program, which has almost 1,000 alumni.The Ob­server 
When the magnolias bloom in front of Notre Dame's Galvin Life Science Center, one of the trees will blossom in memory ofa special man who dedicated 40 years to the University's Life Sciences Departments. The tree and an engraved stone were recently dedicated as a living memorial to Vince Stock, the depart­ments' machinist and building engineer who died in 1979. Father James McGrath, C.S.C., assistant chairman and professor in the Biol­ogy Department, said purchase ofthe tree through donations and its dedication to Stock constituted a "first" in memorializing Life Sciences' personnel. Dr. Morris Pollard, director of the University's Lobund Laboratory, remembered Stock as "an unforgettable, homespun philosopher responsible for technical advances in germfree research." While in charge of the Lobund machine shop, Pollard said Stock constructed specialized equipment that could not be commercially purchased and as building engineeer supervised the operation~ of the Lobund facility. As a staff professional, Pollard called Stock,"one of the most valuable of our staff," and as a friend termed him, "The type of personality one would never forget -­
very strong, very intelligent, and very humane." Tbe Observer 
Dr. Roger A. Schmitz,dean of the college of Engineering at the University of Notre Dame, is the recipient of the 1981 R.H. Wilhelm Award of the American Institute of Chemical Engineers (AIChE ). Presentation of the award, sponsored by the Mobil Oii.Corp., was Nov. 9 during the AIChE four-day annual meeting in New Orleans. Cited for his contributions to the study of chemical reaction engineering, Schmitz received the award for his theoretical and experimental work in the areas of chemical reactor stability and dynamics, and kinetic oscillations. The award includes a certificate and $1 500 honorarium. After receiving an undergraduate degree in chemical engineering from the University of Illinois, Schmitz completed his doctorate at the University of Minnesota in 
1962. He returned to the University of Illinois the same year as an assistant prof<:>ssor ofchemical engineering, advancing to full profes­sor nine years later. He came to the University of Notre Dame in 1979 as the Keating-Crawford professor of Chemical Engineering and chairman of that department. Earlier this year the assumed the deanship of the College of Engineering. He currently serves on the editorial boards of the AIChE Journal and Chemical Engineering Communications, in addition to having authored more thaa 40 technical papers. 
,, 
Occasional light snowor flurries likely today. Col­der with the high around 40. Chance ofsnow tonight and tomorrow. Low tonight mid 20s, high tomorrow upper 30s. Chance of measurable precipitation 40 percent today but decreasing tonight. 

A Step Toward Peace 

As John Maclean states in a recent Chicago Tribune article, the United States and the Soviet Union, like two fighters in a ring, are vying for the same "Peace" crown. 
Both the U.S. and the Soviets seem to be doing 
everything possible to claim peace at the Geneva 
talks. 
Said Reagan of the current disarmament talks, "Our approach with varification will be to em­phasize openness and creativity rather than the secrecy and suspicion which have undermined confidence in arms control in the past." 
The Reagan administration has embarked on a campaign to reduce nuclear arms by announcing that the U.S. would eliminate plans to place 572 missiles in Europe if the Soviets would also eliminate comparable nuclear missiles deployed in Eastern Europe over the past decade. In a letter responding to Reagan's proposal, Soviet leader Leonid Brezhnev replied that the Soviets did not seek confrontation with the U.S. and would be wil­ling to discuss such mat­ters. With this task 
completed, the number together instead of 
of medium ranged against each other to missiles aimed by each form more unified rela­side would be zero. Thus, tions. Reagan's zero-option A reduction in tension 
proposal would be ful­between two giants in filled. military power would 
Maclean writes that it definitely increase our is obvious that both sides security. It would also want arms reduction but mean a step towards this does not mean that peace. The government both sides will get arms alone cannot provide 
such miracles. People
reduction. It does mean .:....,.--:'-•IIP"Pr~--..,...~......,.;,J 
however, that both sides 
must come to grips with public opinion. 
All over the U.S. and Europe people are fighting for a nuclear arms freeze. This expression of public will is merely a wish for peace when peace is threatened with nuclear arms. People fear the growing dangers of a nuclear war between the United States and Russia. And why shouldn't they? Such a war could result in the deaths ofmillions. 
Ifa nuclear bomb were dropped in South Bend, 98 percent of the people would be killed in an area two miles from the blast. It's a frightening thought--almost unrealistic. But if the Geneva talks between the U.S. and Soviets are not succuss­ful, both sides may continue with their present standing and a nuclear war could be possible. 
Anti-nuclear forces say that aside from having the potential to kill 50-250 million people in one day, nuclear arms now cost the U.S. $150 billion a year. This figure is destroying our economy by for-
Design Control ............... Gregory Swiercz 
Design Editor .............................. Tim Neely 
Design Assistant................ Lisa Bontempo 
Typesetters ....................................... AI Novas 
Ron Joe 
Bruce Oakley 
News Editor..................... Cathy Domanico 
Copy Editors .................. Maureen O'Toole 
Steve Navarre 
Features Layout.............. Grt:gory Swiercz 
Sports Copy Editor .............. Bruce Oakley 
Typists ..................................... Laura Degnan 
Jeanine Hynes 
BruceOakky Systems Control ................... Bruce Oakky ND Day Editor ..................... Shirley Grauel Ad Design ................................... fran & Bob Photographer ....................... Rachd Blount Guest Appearances .............. Bruce Oakley 
Mikcy and Macor and Max and Monk and 
Murphy and .\foooooo 
Cashin and Kosidowski and Koch lLl Treanor 
The Observer (USPS 598 920) ,s· 
published Monday through Fnday and 
on home football Saturdays. e<cept 
dunng exam and vacation penods The 
Observer IS published by the students 
of Notre Dame and Samt Marys Col­
lege Subscnpt1ons may be purchased 
for $25 per year ($15 per semester) by 
wnt1ng The Observer. P 0 Box 0~ 
Notre Dame. Indiana 46556 
The Observer IS a member of The 
Associated Press All reproduction 
nghts are reserved 
Second class postage pa1d at Notre 
Dame. lnd1ana 46556 

cing cutbacks in health care, education, housing, and mass transit while military spending is in­creased. Is this where our priorities lie? 
It seems senseless that two world powers con­tinue in the nuclear arms race. The same anti-nuclear proponent states that our govern­ment fears that if it stops its build-up, the U.S.S.R will get further ahead. The Soviet Union says that if they stop, the U.S. will build up its lead. Why can't both countries end this absurd race and solve their differences without nuclear weapons? There would be much less fear in the world and perhaps for once the U.S. and the Soviet Union could work 
. .,. ~;if:ll»6 f.pl}.) must join together and demand that their security be insured. A nuclear arms freeze would only be the begin­ning of the peace movement. It dosen't matter which side begins the movement as long as it starts -soon. A nuclear arms freeze can only become a reality if the government has the sup­port ofthe people. United, the government and its citizens can minimize the threat ofa nuclear war. 
Observer notes 
----------------~ 
The Observer incorrectly reported yesterday that the postponed L-5 Society film, "Reflections", would be shown tonight. The film is scheduled to be shown Dec. 8 in LaFortune Little Theater. The Observer regrets the error. 
The Observer has openings at news editor and copy editor for next semester. Applications are being accepted at our offices on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center. The application deadline is noon Friday. 
Tbe Observer production department needs layout staffers. Students interested in night work should visit or call our office. Promotion to paid positions depends on quality ofwork. 
Donee Theatre presents: 
Directed by Debra Stohl and student choreographer Colleen Quinn December 6 at 230pm, Oloughlin Auditonum 
$3 General admission $250 Students, faculty, staff and senior Citizens Open1ng n1ght patrons will receive one complimentary ticket for each regularly purchased ticket 
For informotion.coll284-4176 


·-----·-----·­
·rhe Observer 
Missile reduction 
Atnericans, Soviets discuss artns 

GENEVA, Switzerland ( AP) ­American and Soviet negotiating teams talked for more than two 
hours  yesterday  in  the  first  full  
hargaining  session  on  limiting  
nuclear  missiles  in  Europe,  and  

prompty reasserted a news hlackout on the conduct ofthe negotiations. 
"Everything is OK," Soviet delega­tion <:hid Yuli A. Kvitsinsky said as he left tht· two-hour, 40-minute meeting. "We meet again Friday" at the Sovkt mission, Kvitsinsky said. 
There werc no other public in­dications here about the conduct of tht· talks, which have seized the at­tention of Western Europeans innt·asingly wary about the medium-range nuck;Jr l(>n:es of the SUpt·rpowt•rs. 
The two ~ilks, in a move they said would l'ncourage progress, agreed to t·mhargo virtually all int(mnation ahout the talks. which arc to he con­duned Tut·~day~ and Fridays. "We han· nmcurrt·d that the details of !ht· nq,:otiations llJU~t be kept in tht· negotiating room," the d1ief I '.:i. negotiator, l'aul II. :-.iitze, said after conft-rring with K\·itsin~ky on :\lon­
day on procedural issues. Nitze 
dcscribcd. that session as "cordial 
and businesslike." 
Deputy head ofthe U.S. ddcgation 
:vtaynard W. Glitman, reached by 
The Associated Press, would not dis­
cuss the atmospherc of yesterday's 
round, the first full-scale meeting of 
the: two delegations. 
"We've finished for this day," said 
Glitman. "I'm not going to tell you 
anything more." 
East Germany's official news 
agency ADN said foreign ministers 
of the seven Warsaw Pact countries 
would be discussing "the status of 
arms control and disarmament" at a 
meeting that opened yestesdav in ' Bucharest, Romauia. · 
Early sessions of the Geneva talks 
on intermediate-range nuclear 
f(>rces were likely to center on 
resolving differences about the ter­
minology. numht·rs, range and 
destructive characteristics of those 
armanwnts. 
Resolution of similar compkx 
maHer., took consitkrahk time 
during SALT II bargaining. Extensive 
portions of the ll.S.-Soviet SALT II arms limitation treaty, which the Senate has never ratified, arc devoted to description and ter­minology concerning the intercon­tinental weapons under negotiation. 
Examples of the difficulties con­fronting the negotiators at Geneva arc conflicting assessments about the number of nuclear weapon sys­tems in Europe:. The Soviets say that an approximate parity exists. The United States contends the Kremlin has built an advantage that ap­proaches 6-to-I. 
:vtost formidable weapon in the Soviet's European arsenal is a mobile, triple-warhead missile which the Americans and their allies call the SS-20 -and the: Soviets call "Pioneer" missiles. 
U.S. Arms Control and Disarmament Agency, said in London on :\tonday that the Soviets would maintain an edge even with deployment of new l I.S. nuclear arms. NATO plans to in­stall 572 cruise: and Pershing 11 missiles in tlve Western European countries beginning in I985. 
AtSMC 
Committee works on curriculum 
Hy KATHY SHANNON 
.Veu•s Staff 
Tht· Saint .\tary's College Cur­

riculum lkvdopnwnt Committct·. 
founded through the Lilly Endow­
ment Foundation. is working to 
rt·vi~t· tht· pre~cnt cort· curriculum. 
The committt't', under the lcader­
~hip of Sr. Eva llookl'f. Associate 
Dean of the Fat·ulty, li>cuscd on two 
main issues in directing the path of 
the l'Urrieulum: women and sol'ial 
justke. 
The committt'l' i~ n>mpriscd of dt'Vt·n faculty members and Sr. Eva, and i~ an extension of the previous DIRIT committet·, which also li>t'Used on currinllum revision. The number on the committee is not limitt·d to twelve; any intl'fcstnl hll'uly mcmht·r wa~ invited to join tht·committee wht·n it was f(>rml'll. 
Saint .\lary's competed with other college~ f(>r the S I26,000 two-year grant from tht· Lilly Endowment, and was ont· of the ten to rt-ccivt· grant~ for nJrril'ulum rt·vision projects. 
Tlw funds arc u~ed for variuus ac­tivities: f(>r till' salaric~ of those tt·adwrs substituting li>r the tt·n professors on rckast· time.currently working on thc building of new COUr~l'S, for Mllllllll'f COUrSe devdopmt·nt grants, li>r spt·akcrs, and for vtst1111g professur~ in residence. For l'Xampll-, the Biology lkpartment n·ccivnl funds to pay ~;tlarit-~ l(>r four rt·pl;tcl'mt·nt ll';Kh­l'r~ as wdl a~ matl'fiab. Till' rl'icasl'll prot(:ssors arc trying to relate the Biology I0.) and I 0-1 causes to et­hics. with tht· hdp .of Notre Dame ethicist, Stanky llowost. . 
The ohjt-ctivc of the new or rcvised courses is to prepare stu­dents to writt· wdl, make compll'x value judgements, and to incor­porate the ideas ofwomen and ofso­cial justice into the program. 
Tht· woman issue will encourage: disciplinary shifts, new interdiscipli­nary arrangements, and an overall t·hangc in curriculum thought. 
Justice, the other main objective:, will employ the: teaching and practicing of right relationships. Ex­peril-nee is mandatory in social justice awart·ncss; some sort of pt:r­sonalexposure to prohlt·ms. 
The Curriculum Devdopmt·nt Committet· strives to achkve corn­plt-te rt·vbion of the core cur­riculum. Last }Tar. Sr Eva, with a mt·mhcr of the Teaching and Learn­ing Committee. visit~·d each depart­ment to examine tht· cort: course required . The courses were inves­tigated on the basis of why they WTrt· chost·n to fulfill the graduation requirement, what tht·y involved, and the rationalt-behind them. 
Through this investigation, and in light of the new objectives. and the women and ~ocial justice issues. three new modl'l core curriculums were devdoped by the Curriculum Devdopmt·nt (:ommittt'l'. These mmkb were similar to tht· hasic core curriculum ofany college. with 
Discount TheQter Tickets Qte AvQiiQble 
Qt the Student Union 
Ticket  Office for  
Plitt Theaters  $2.75  
University Park  $2.50  


some cour~e change~ and ditkrnlt course requirements. These three trial modds were distributed to the faculty in August. and evaluated by each department. 
Sr. Eva reported the summary of these critiques on the three; trial model curriculums to the facultv last Tuesday. Each dcpartmeni evaluated the models. as well as the Writing and Protlckncy Committee and the Justice Education Commit­tee, who also submitted a report. The: critiques of tilt' models were to he evaluated under six main prin­ciples, including the suitability as a structure:, and the case of introduc­tion of new knowledge, but most departments failed to do so. Instead, they offered nt:w model cur­riculums or have a critique from a departmental perspective, rAther than a <.'ollt-gial pnspcctivc. 
Tht· Curriculum Dcvdopment See CURRICULUM, page 4 
Professor Brent Smith of Ear/bam Colle!(e spoke at tbe (;a/i,in Auditorium yesterday on "The Population Dynamics ofFalse .Her­maids." 




More Diamond For Your Dollar 
All the quality, selection, and service you've come to expect from John M. Marshall's* for less than you'd expect to pay at the moll! 
• Fine diamonds to fit your budget • Each ring made to order for you 
• Dozens of mounting styles • Free lifetime appraisal 
• Free laser-beam Gemprint™ registration 
(219) 288-3911 
ivtalon of Diamond Import Company
Suite 629, St. Joseph Bank Building
• GemologiSI, G.G., F.G.A., Open Mon.-Fri. 10-6, Sot. 10-2
South Bend, Indiana 4660~ 
The Observer Wednesday, December 2, 1981 -page 4 


DETROIT BUS SIGN UPS 
• • • Curriculum 
for Crlstmas Break 

continuedfrom page3 
courses should be required, a.'> well annual reports to the Endowment.
Thursday, December 3 6:30-7:00 Pm 
Committee discussed each as computer literacy courses. The Lilly Endowment is basically in­departmental report as it was No new core curriculum will ap­terested in education,-values,
Lafortune Ballroom 

received. They also explored the pear by September 1982 though. women's issues, and citv issues. possibilities of the new or altered Changing the curricululm is a dif­Sr. Eva, chairman ;>f the Cur­
round trip fare: 23.00 
models received. ficult task, and the new core will be riculum Development Committee, 
Although nothing is wrong with phased in gradually. Alhough the Lil­is responsible for the coordination the present Saint .\1ary's curriculum, ly Endowment grant ceased in Sep­of undertaking a curriculum revi­
departure: Friday, December 19 5:30Pm 
return: monday, January 11 5:30 Pm 
a change is needed for the growth of tember 1982, the Curriculum sion project. She finds,"lt is a lot of future generations ofstudents. As Sr. Development Committee hopes to work, but the committee members Eva pointed out," .\1ost major IVy-find funds elsewhere for the con-are wonderful. They have worked league schools have been up-dating tinued exploration of change in the very hard." Indeed, the committee their curriculums, including Har-S.\1C curriculum. needs approximately two hours
DANCE THE NIGHT AWAY 
vard. Lower division requirements The Curriculum Development each week, in order to facilitate the are changing all over the country." Committee is responsible to the Lil­change in Saint .\1ary's core cur­
at mARDI GRAS 
Indeed S.\1C is no exception. ly Endowment in that it must submit riculum. To update the curriculum was the main purpose of the curriculum I
Dancers sign up 
Development Committee's three 
new model curriculums. Faculty 
KSU
reaction was an important part of • • • this process. Many departments fdt
Wed-South Dining Hall -Dinner 
that the new curriculum should con-continuedfrom page I now allocated Kentucky State to upgrade services and programs for
tain more courses. For, example, the school graduates attend KSU. He
Thurs -North Dining Hall -Dinner 
blacks at the other state universities.
History department felt that two also cited the high per-pupil cost at But Burse. council chairman Wil­
Fri -LaFortune 

semesters of History should be re-KSU, which is $2,700 per pupil more liam McCann and Donna Moloney,quired in the new curriculum, be-than the next most costly state uni­
cause the present required semester versity. 
another council member, an­nounced an alternative proposalwas not enough to intellectually ac-Bell's proposal also calls for es-
At All Times -Student Activity Office 
Monday that would keep the schoolquaint students with the field. tablishing a center at the Kentucky as a four-year institution but requireMost departments varied in sup-State campus to train state and local it to make major improvements inport or rejection of certain core government employees. It also academic programs and in reducing
courses. All agreed, however, that would use $5 million of the funds advanced writing and proficiency costs over the next five years. The plan calls for immediate
r-----15FF~-cAlAPus-------, r·····----------····..··········1 
evaluation of existing academic programs, with faculty and staff

i Ihe Obset:ver ! 
reductions, and a strengthening of
I C9Jq?9g<(fu\Jlc)g CC0C<J<tfcA9~ I 
its master's program in public affairs.
: is accepting applications for the :
I ~cA~tr~ I : 0" Oo O Oo· POSitiOn Of : Among the cost reduction
I 

measures recommended are
I 

elimination of the school's intercol­legiate football program and sale of
I <J'huM~. COec. g 9:00-12:00 
its East Campus -a motel used as a dormitory.
I<J'9cpcpgCJJJ<08 cp~JC8 
The plan also recommends tur­
I ning a closed dormitory into a
• .•
~
I federally funded research faciHty 
I <J'w~etg sg.so CJood a11d ~we and demolition of a second closed dormitory.
I 

C8a11d 911cQuded cAQQ <0-C • • 
"My plan doesn't say Kentucky
I d"t
• copy e 1 or. • State would be continued forever,"
I 

Burse said. "But to close it down
I : Applications are due by 12:00 .: 
closes an opportunity for some stu­
* ~...............................J dents to get a quality education that 
they may never get at any other in­
'  

ENGINEERS Gulf Oil Corporation, a major energy company, has job openings for all types of graduating engineers who are interested in building a career in crude oil and gas producing operations. Duties include drilling, equipment installation and maintenance, subsurface reservoir studies, economic evaluation of producing properties, well stimulation and reconditioning, and enhanced oil recovery operations. Training courses will be provided to accelerate career development in oil and gas producing and drilling operations. Positions are located in Gulf Coast, Mid-Continent, Rocky Mountain, and West Coast areas. Excellent employee benefits. If you have interviewed with a Gulf Recruiter or have sent us a resume, thank you very much. If you have not, please send your resume and transcript to: J. R. Ligon, Jr. GULF OIL EXPLORATION & PRODUCTION COMPANY P.O. Box 1166 Pittsburgh, PA 15230 An Equal Opportunity Employer MiF  


L-------------------------~ 
stitution." 
I If you desire financial assistance, scholursbip, or guaranteed job opportunities upon graduation; then you should 
• • .Pact
enter.... 
'"'-8 December
~ 
continuedfrom page I 
As an important date on your calender! trucking industry doesn't expire un­
That is the day we are providing information 
til next March 31, but Williams and interviews in all areas of: 
agreed to start early on negotiations on a new pact, and in so doing 
renegotiate a portion of the existing accord. 
AVIATION 
ENGINEERING PERSONNEL 'MANAGEIHENT 
In agreeing to ropen the current at !\iotrc Dame University. Salaries start from 
pact, Williams reversed a stand taken by the late Frank E. Fitzsim­
17,200 increasing to 28,600-45;700 in four years. 
mons, the longtime Teamster presi­Openings arc also available in: 
dent who died in early May. 
1\latcrials 1\lanagcment Doctors Fitzsimmons had won a
Bus;ness Administration Nurses 
SI.50-an-hour wage increase in the 
Nuclear Engineering Lawyers 
contract negotiated in 1979. A typi­cal Teamster trucker or warehouseman now makes S12.96 in wages, not including benefits.
For more information or appointment for inter\'iew call: 
31'"'-269-619.., or 1-800-382-9404 extension 6197 
-·~::·~~:~~~~=::·i;g-1 
interested in Law ~ 
Department of the Na,·y 
Schools. 7:00 -Thur.~
s-s :\. Pennsyl\'ania St. Lib. Aud. Asst. Dean~
Office, 646 (OPO) Indianapolis, l!\i. 46204 
Waddick and Dean ~ Mclean Will talk ~ about new LSAT andl== other information pertaining to Law ~ 
::!o~~~ ~s:~~p~ees 

of_!:_===. handed out! 



Editorials 
Wednesday, December 2, 1981-page 5 
-

Stockman has worn out his welcome 
and the commerce secretary can read II.) Rep. Del Latta of Ohio will thing."
I am a.;tonishcd that people keep 
that Stockman 1~anagcd them with know how Stockman refers to him as 14.) The White House will learn Garry Wills
saying the complete David Stockman 
what he himself calld a "demagogic pouting and in need of having his that it accepted "a rotten idea" like
article in the Atlantic is less vul­
tirade." hands held. sugar supports because "they don't
nerable than the better-known quotes 
4.) The Secretary of Energy can 12.) The president's advisers in care over in the White House-they
taken from it. The original piece is 
budget numbers -Js even more
read that Stockman considered him a the White House -who Stockman want to win."
far. far worse-not only in terms of 
damaging than Stockman's own
mouthpiece for ·'the same old calls "the West Wing guys"-will The idea that a man can lay about 
content, but in its political effect on 
words. Stockman says he doesn't un­
bureaucrats I've been kicking find they did not know much about him with such derisory accuracy (if
Stockman as a member of Reagan's 
derstand the numbers, because they
around for the last five years.'' their own economic plan, and that that is what it is) and still be effective
administration. 
make no sense. Is he to be the best
5.)Farmers can learn that this farm they "overreacted" to resistance with ego-guarding politicians is ab­
Another mistaken notion is that 
salesman for a product which eve
boy beat their lobbyists by proposing against Social Security reform. surd.
Stockman showed naivete in talking 
calls a bad one? In that case, the bet­
"a farm bill that's unacceptable to 13.) The president has read that he The opposite argument -that
to journalist William Greider. As 
ter the salesman, the worse harm he
the farm guys so that the whole thing renounced Social Security reform al­Stockman has to stay on because only
Greider himself notes, Stockman has 
does. He should go.
begins to splinter." though "he believed it was the right he understands the president's
been an expert in manipulating the 
6.)Secretary of Defense Caspar
press to this point. What tinal~y 
Weinberger can read that "He'll ~ *' .-~·.-s.t. lfi·: ))I~#
showed through, as it was bound to 111 
back off on a lot of this stuff" (i.e.,
time, was Stockman's arrogance, 
4irw
rises in defense expenditures, which
that is, his contempt for all those he 
Weinberger espouses).
deals with as his intellectual in­
7.)The president himself can read
feriors. 
that, far from being the great decision
Now. as far as I know, Stockman 
maker, "If there's a consensus on it,
may be justified in his conte1~pt for 
he's not going to buck it, probably."
these people. I find some of them 
8.) Howard Baker and his T t ennes­
rather contemptible, too. But I don't 
sec constituents can discover that
work for them. Nor do I have to work 
"Clinch River is just life and death to
with them. I don't have to cultivate 
Baker -a very poor reason, I
them in order to pass the president's 
know" (for backing the Clinch River
bills. Stockman's problem is not 
reactor).
what he thinks of them, but that he 


9.)Presidential aide Edwin Meese
allows them to find out what he 
can learn how Stockman tells others
thinks of them. The list is long: 
that he wanted to prevent people
I. )His ally and mentor can now 
from going in to sec Meese, who
read: "Laffer sold us a bill of 
doesn't understand the policy back­
goods." , 
ground."
2.) Cabinet ofticers can read that 
10.) The Democrats in the House
Stockman deliberately ran cuts by 
now know that one of their own. Phil
them before thcy had time to prepare 
Gramm of Texas, was acting as
responses. 
Stockman's spy in their midst. 
3.)The U.S. trade representative 
"POOR, GuY. ~Ll.. ThiS t..::c5t ARMS·R'EDXTiCN TALK GAVE HIM ANASTY fURN. HEY. GENERAL.,
li'S OK -CJVR MASSIVE l'ENTAGJN 'But:GET IS ~I L~ INTACT. ' 
Social justice should be redefined 



Founded November 3, 1966 
The Observer is an independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not neces~arily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is report­ed as accurately and as objectively as possible. Editorials represent the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, opinions and letters are the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community, and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, i5 encouraged. 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219)283-8661 
Editorial Board 

/'tlitrJr·in-Cbhf............ ................ .John .\lc(irath Executiw Neu•s Editor. ................ .. k dli Flint 
.\fJorts Hditor .............................. Mkhad Ortman 
. Veu•s Editor ........................ ......... T:.n \ l'fl dlotti 
Photo Editor.........................................fohn Macor
,Veu•s l;'tlitor..................... ....... l>a\id Hickabaugh S.I1C E.\·ecutil•e l:'tlitor............ \1ary Agnt:s Can.:: Hditorials Editor.......... -...........Anthony Walton !:!~11C Neu•s t:ditor......................Cathy Domanico Features h'ditor .........................(irc:gory Swit:rcz 
Department Managers 
Business Manager ........... ............. Rich Coppola Production Manager.................,.Michad Monk Controller............................................ .joc: :\-tulflur Circulation Manag(.>r .............Tom MacLennan Advertising .Wanager ....................... Chris Owen Systems Manager........................... Bruce Oakley 
P.O.BoxQ 
Student questions new Theology Dept. policy 
way of black economic progress and 
ccpted thesis that ever since the days 
I said that one of them was the labor 
of slavery, black families were 
union. That is a fact. and I'm simply 
dominatd by mothers. the fathers 
William F. Buckley
reporting facts, not prejudices.·' 
having been shipped away to distant 
How do you handle such a man. I 
plantations. The trouble with this is 
mean, if you have a lifetime staked 
that it is not so. ·'The current large 
On the Right 

out on the repugnant cliches? 
and rising numbers of female-headed 
Not long ago Carl Rowan called 
families among blacks is a modern 
economic ethnic group in America­
his black brother Tom Sowell a 
phenomenon stemming from the era 
-please, professor? No. Jews,
"quisling." The charge makes one 
of the welfare state--when the 
Japanese. Poles, Chinese and
smile. In the first place, the idea of 
government bcgaan to subsidize 
Italians make more money.
Sowell being servile to any regime let 
desertion and teen-age pregnancy.·· 
Fourteen percent of Americans arc
alone one that sought accommoda­
Wait a minute,profcssor are you 
professonals, which is to say,
tion with tyrants, is laughable. But 
saying that the state is intcntionaly or 
lawyers, doctors and teachers. Can
mostly one smiles because if you 
unintentionally subsidizing dis­
anybody beat the Anglos on that
took from Carl Rowan the planks 
crimination? The answer to this will 
scale? Well, yes. West Indians, 15
which one by one the scholar Sowell 
alarm not only statists. but the intel­
percent; Jpanese, I!I percent;
turns into sawdust. Rowan is left 
lectual elite who consider themselves 
Filipinos. 2J percent; Chinese, 25
wthout anything whatever on which 
the primary opponents of discrimina­
percent.

to rest his massive frame. It is as if 
tion. It is, once again. yes. 
··How far have we come in remov­
you took from St. Paul the Resurrec­
And so it goes. How acL·ount for 
ing discriminatory pay differences
tion and original sin all in one after­
the success of the (non-white) 
among individuals wth the same
noon. What then would happen to 
Chinese? They arc discriminated 
qualifications ad different racial or
him? 
against through Southeast Asia, but 
ethnic backgrounds? Among the
It isn't as ifSowell ignores the fac­
their income is five times as high as 
yongcr generation?" asks Professor
tor of racism. ··People often say that 
that of their neighbors. "Those who 
Sowell of himself: "We h11ve just
I'm denying that there's racism. On 
argue that the Chinese have gotten 
about all the way."
the contratrary. racism exists 
this by exploiting the natives could 
There are those who sy that Profes­
everywhere around the world, down 
test this out by looking at places 
sor Sowell has become an abject ser­
through history. That's one of the 
where there are only Chinese resi­
vant of the market, to which his icy
reasons it is hard to use it as an em­
dents. such as, for example, Sin­
answer is: ·· I do not have faith in the 
pirical explanation for anything. In 
gapore or Hong Kong. In Hong 
market, I have evidence about the
the United States, for example. 
Kong, 9!1 pacent of the population is 
market."

Puerto Ricans have lower incomes 
Chinese. They have the highest stan­
They talk about "social justice."
than Blacks. I don't know of anyone 
dard of living in Southeast Asia. If 
Social justice these days is best
who believes that Pueno Ricans en­
they arc getting it by exploitation. 
defined as the failure to read the
counter more discrimination than 
they must be exploiting those other 
books of George Gilder and Thomas
blaL·ks. Obviously there must be 
two percent something awful-­
Sowell. Because that failure orients
something else involved besides this 
the other two percent being the 
the governing majority toward the
discrimination." ,.., 
British. who run the colony.·· 
preservation of rules and regulations,
And so the uncluttered mind of 
At least Professor Sowell will 
habits and predilections, which arc
Sowell begins looking around. There 
leave undisturbed the plain dumb fact 
the greatest enemy of full black
is, for instance, the commonly ac-
that Anglo-Saxons arc the privelcgcd 
freedom since the slavcowners. 
return to the theme of Thomas Sowell. but then so would you if you had experienced him, and read his book."Markets and Minorities," or the companion, "Ethnic America." There are very few racial cliches that survive this exposure. Professor Sowell's immersion in the subject has made it very nearly impossible to contend with him. Moreover. he has the advantage of having ironed out in his orderly mind what disciplines he proposes to speak about. 
"Are you against labor unions'!" An indignant lady recently asked him on television. "You asked what were some of the factors that stood in the 
Dear Editor 
I would like to describe a scene in the drama of liberal education, as it is played at Notre Dame. As all at N.D. know, there is a university require­ment for every student to take six hours of theology. Knowing the su­perb quality of this department, I had no objections to this policy as I went to O'Shaughnessy to pick up a card for the check-marked course. "Non­Western Religions." I was told upon 
arriving that I would have to tirst talk to Father Malloy. He graciously in­formed me that due to complaints by the alumni and by the faculty. the departmcn< now follows the policy that unless a student is Buddhist or Jewish or some other "special case," he may not take a non­Christian course for the theology re­quirement. hut only as an elective. 
suppose it is therefore obvious 
that Non-Western Religion is not religion, in the Notre Dame sense of the word. It would, after all. be quite a shame if any good Catholics should stray away because ofevil outside in­tlucnces, like Judaism or Hinduism. We are the chosen people, and heaven knows our Catholic back­ground would be lacking without two courses at ND. 
This is liberal education? It seems while the rest of the world progresses toward humanism and international understanding, our university is taking a step backward. I personally refuse to be discouraged by such in­centives as Notre Dame offers in this case. It only feels strange having to declare myself Atheist for a semester simply to tak.: a Theology course. 
Sincerely. Karen Miranda 

Wednesday, December 2, 1981-page 6 
Eeatures 
At Primary Day School 
Sisters fight odds to educate 

had never had the oppur-Itunity to teach in the inner city," Sr. Marita Stoffel says. "I wanted to find out why the children in the in­ncr city were so far behind children 
By Gus Tamborello 
in other areas. I knew they were just 
as intelligent." 
On the second floor on the old St. 
Stephen's school in Downtown 
South Bend stands the Primary Day 
School. The school is not privately 
owned, nor is it supported by the 
South Bend School Corporation. It 
is, according to Bro. joe McTaggart 
ofCampus Ministry. "an apostolatc 
oftwo women, addressing the needs 
of the inner city." These women arc 
Sr. Marita and Sr. Evodine. 
In 1968, Sr. Marita. then an assis­
tant professor ofeducation at Mar­
quette University in Milwaukee, was doing research on inner city schools tried to get into the schools to find out why these children were so far behind. The schools in Milwaukee would not let her in. So, she packed up and went to Chicago, only to be turned down there as well. She then came to South Bend. 
She arrived in South Bend in Sep­tember of 1968, hoping to be placed in the South Bend School Corpora­tion. Again, she was turned down. "So, "Sr. Marita replied, "I had to start my own school." 
She chose the old St. Stephen's school builing because that was the only place she could find. Originally, she was given one room on the second floor ofthe building. Today, she has the entire seven-room floor which includes classrooms, a library, and a kitchen. 
Sr. Marita wanted to teach the in­ner city children who had failed in school. In order to tlnd them, though she had to go out and look for them. This past summer, Sr. :\tarita spent three weeks trying to recruit thirty students for the fall. This is not an easy task because many of the parents do not want their children in her school. Many fear that it is a religious school, but to this she added, "\'\-'e teach basic Christian principles." 
Most of the children enrolled in Primary Day School come from broken families. In fact, only one of the 26 children presently enrolled comes from a two-parent family. Sr. Marita said that "a child from this type ofenvitonment has a very low self-esteem. He has failed in school and doesn't have any oppurtunities. He has never been anybody." 
The main task is to make these children "somebody." She reminds us, though, that these children are by no means mentally deficient. They are not even slow learners. They are victims ofan environment in which many times a parent does not care about his child. "These children are bright," she said, "and we just have to go out there and find them. We arc really looking for the child who is out there almost alone." 
"Sr. Marita's purpose is not only to teach, but to make the children learn how to learn," Bro. McTaggert added. Her purpose is to remove these children from the "special education" classes in which they do not belong. Sr. Marita wants to take these children, most eleven and twelve year olds, and prepare them to go back to school and succeed where they failed previously. 
"The first thing we do when they come here is try to build up their self-esteem. They come here with a very defeatist attitude. W c try to make them feel like they are real people and worthwhile. We con­vince them that they can do it; they can be somebody." 
Sister Marita is assisted by Sister Evodinc McGrath, a former ad­ministrator at Marquette University before joining the Day school in 1971. Her main job is to seek fun­ding for the school. This brings us to the main problem of the Primary Day School. 

The South Bend Shoo! Corpora­tion (School City) will not fund the school. In fact, they tried to close her down ten years ago, sending in the fire marshall and the health in­spector to cite various violations. Sister did what she had to do, 
· though, and since then the School Corporation has not come around. 
The sisters must seek other means to keep the school going. United Way will no longer fund them. They fed she is duplicating a service al­ready provided by School City. In reality, though, these ladies are doing something which goes beyond public education. 
"Why, we've gotten money from United Way before," Sister Marita says, "but we had School City on our doorstep the next day." United Way then told them that they didn't want 
the hassle. · 
The school has never opened its doors in August with enough money to run the school for the entire year. "Somehow," Sister says,"somcbody always comes through." Many times, Notre Dame provides money. In fact, the school is funded mainly by Notre Dame, not the University it­self, but many different student or­
ganizations and the Campus Ministry. The school docs receive breakfast and lunch for each student from the government. 
Their task is not always easy. They must not only struggle to get stu­dents, they must struggle to keep them. For thirteen years, these ladies have tried to serve the needs of the 'South Bend inner city. "Their success rate is phenomenal," McTaggart adds. "We've tried many times to get these ladies an honorary degree, but we've never been able to get it. These are people in our own neighborhood." 
Even though they have not been honored, they continue to provide their services. In fact, Sister Marita says that it is more an education for her than these children. "It is an education in itself. You have no idea how some of these children live." 
The Primary Day School may have a shaky future, but Sister Marita doesn't let the financial problems stand in the way of her rewarding experience. "You just live and hope and continue to pray that one day our ship will come in." 


The Observer--Features Wednesday, December 2, 1~81-page 7 

Marriott Hotel opens doors 
A 
ftc:r several years ofplanning 
and building, thl· South B~:nd 

Marriott Hotel has finally opened its 
doors to the public. Opening 
By Vic Sciulli 
ceremonies wcrr hc:ld last week in the atrium ofthe new steel and glass structure located in downtown South Bend. 
Thl' new hotel, the 93rd to be 

built by Marriott Hotels is a radical 
departure from the more traditional 
architecture of most Marriott 
Hotels. The dramatic nine-story 
structure is supported by over two 
hundred tons ofsteel with 140,000 
square: feet ofspecially treated glass 
surrounding the outside of the 
building. Seventy five miles of 
electrical tubing are laid throughout 
the hotel. The atrium tloor alone has over ~0,000 sq. feet ofspace. 
Designed by Helmutjahn, architect ofseveral other Marriott Hotels around the world, the 300 room hotel features a number ofguest services and shops, a restaurant, lounge, and sevl·ral thousand square feet ofbanquet and meeting space. 
Many people have wondered why the Marriott Corporation would build such a large hotel in a small city like South Bend. james E. Dur­bin, President of Marriott Hotels ex­plained that Marriott doesn't usually builu a hotel unles~ the city has suffi­cient generators in the three main segments oftheir business: tourism, corporate, commercial, convention and seminars. They also look for a location in which they can have 80/ occupancy. 
South Bend, however, has been experiencing a decline in the diver­sity ofthe industry in the area with a corresponding decline in the population base. 
There were three main reasons why South Bend was chosen for the corporation's new hotel. The new Century Center, located across the street from the hotel will provide, Durbin feels, cultural, meeting, con­vention, and conference posibilities the city did not have before. 
Downtown areas of many cities have experienced a revitalization at: ter World War li because ofthe in­crease in the cost ofhousing and energy. Durbin feels that ifthere can be an integration ofcommercial facilities in a new and fresh way, 
there can be new life for a downtown area. Durbin explained 
that this is not the first time that Mar­
riott has come to a city that has been 
in a decline. He believes that the 
city's administrators arc determined 
to make South Bend a better place 
and that the new hotel can be a 
catalyst for a revitalization ofSouth 
Bend. 
It currently costs five times as much to build a Marriott Hotel today than it did 25 years ago when the first Marriott was built, Durbin ex­plained. The price for building the South Bend hotel went over the costs ofthe original estimates, some­thing Durbin attributes to the ac­celeration ofinterest rates, the extensive lifesaving and security sys­tems throughout thc: hotel, as well as the increase in the price oflabor and energy. 
Dance concert begins Friday 
T
he Notrc: Dame/Saint Mary's Theatrt· is presenting Our Winter Concert, an c:vc:­ning oforiginal dance works Dec. 4 and 5 at 8 p.m. and Dec. 6 at 2:30p.m. in O'Laughlin Auditorium. 
The concert features dance styles from clas­sical ballet to modern ballet, from jazz to musical theatre. 
Choreographers of the concert include Professor Debra S. Stahl and Saint Mary's Senior Coleen (..)uinn. 
This concert marks the first occasion that a student's choreography is being featured in a mainstage production. 
Trivia Quiz X 
T
oday there will bc: a slight changc: in format. Thc: answc:rs to 
By Tim Neely 
Ja..,t weeks quiz are found after this wc:c:k's quiz. This is only out of per­sonallazinc:ss (yes, Christma~ break 
near~) and will not bc: pc:rmanent. 
.\1y thanks go out to Kevin Kc:lly of 

Darby's Place famt'"for this wec:k's 
thl·mc:. Below arc: ten song titks 
with girls' namc:s; idc:ntify thc: artists. 
I. "Dmise" 
2. "Jenny Take a Ride" j, "Sylvia':. ,\!other" 

4. 
"Kathy's Song" 

5. 
"Gudbuy t'Janc:" 

6. 
"Peggy Sue" 

7. 
"Oh' Carol" 

8. 
"\l'endy" 

9. 
"Carrie-Anne" I 0. "Josie" Now I will mention the answers to 


•!"Jc lasi yuiL. The answer to each question appears in CAPITAL LET­TERS. I . "Thc: BEATLES' nc:w rc:cord's a gas" 
2. "I hope NEIL YOUNG will 
rc:member" ~-"Nothing but blues and 
ELVIS..." 
4. 
"And SA.\1 COOKE playin' on the radio" 

5. 
''Puts on SINATRA and starts to cry" 

6. 
"l ncc:d your hc:lp. BARRY MANI LOW" 

7. 
"Mr. Hughes hid in DYLAN's shoes..." 

8. 
"And OTIS brought us all to the dock of thc: bay" 

9. 
"I dig THE MA.\1AS AND THE PAPAS..." 


I 0. "It looks a lot like the one used by JIMMY PAGE" 
Big business shows big interest in arts 
C 
onsider these facts: Kraft, Inc. contributed S404,600 to thc: arts in 1979, United States Steel: S450,500 and Mobil Oil Corporation (Mobil Founda­tion, Inc.) a whopping S I ,042,000. 
21 million Americans in all age groups and at all economic levels attended dance performances in 1979, while 13.2 million went to NFL f(>otball games. 
"Nicholas Nickclby," the latest Broadway extravaganza cost S1.2 _, million and has and estimated operating cost of S400,000 a week. A "straight" Broadway show ( a drama with a small cast) costs about 5450,000. 
I I million people attended Broadway shows during the 1980 
season. Receipts totaled s196.9 million. Mort Neumann. a Chicago businessman who runs a little known 
but succc:ssful mail order cos-mc:tics business under the name Valmour, has amassed a collection of modern art es­

timated to be worth over S50 
million. It took him 30 years. The Art Gallery
Alcoa, the largest aluminum company in the worid, recent. iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii ly ran a full page ad in thc: Wall Street jounallisting the cultural ad­vantagc:s of Pitsburgh, in an effort to attract executives to thc: city in which Alcoa is hc:ad4uartered. 
What do all these tidbits mean? That the arts are big business ad big business is becoming intc:restcd in the arts. This intc:rt'st has been a long time in coming, partially because ofthc: American mindset. As Agnes De Mille said, Americans ae "imbued with the idea that what 
-

was no useful was no good. Ifit had no practical utilitarian purpose­-if you couldn't mc:nd the roof with it... what usc was it. It was cf­ffeminate; it was trivial; it was unamerican." The government, traditionally thc: foundation ofsupport for the arts has never taken too much interest. Ofall democracies, ofall western and morc: or less free societies--and ofsocialistic and communistic societies, too. America has no Secretary of Fine Arts, no officc: ofCulture, no Cultural Advisory. Ms. De Mille says that this is a blatant form of neglect and a dangerous one. 

~----------------------~0 

lfthc: government will take no interest in the arts then it must be the the responsibility offrc:e enterprise. .fohn T. Connor, chairman of the Board ofDirectors ofAllied Chemical Corporation and Secretary ofCommc:rcc during thc: Johnson administration, says that only do thc: arts need business but business needs the arts: "A alliance be­tween thc: arts and business is as ancient as civilization itself; busi­ness has never been able to remain indiffc:rent to the arts without damage to itself." 
So what docs this mean to hl· averagc: Domc:r? It is no sccrc:t that one ofthc: things Notre Dame is well known for is turning out suc­cessful executives. Ifart is important to business, thc:n the executive will havc: to know at least somethingabout, shall we say, culture. The c:xccutivc: will at least have to have some esthetic taste. In other words, you will no longer have to justify that art course you took. Investing in art can be profitable in financial and intangible ways. A corporation's public rc:lations can bc: greatly c:nhanced by support of the arts in a intc:llegcnt manner. And an intc:rviewcr may often remember the candidate who, along with good gradc:s ad extra-... cirriculars, knc:w the diffc:n:ncc: betwec:n a Monc:t and Manet. 
Another thing to think about, ifyou arc: looking ti>r an c:xciting career in a new tlch.l and would considc:r something that docs not carry a hugc: salary: thc: art world needs business pl'oplc:, from ac­countants who arc c:xperienccd in non-profit corporations to lawyers well versed in copyright and royalty laws, as well as laws governing c:statc:s. Ifa wealthy patron comes to an arts organization and wants to donate for tax purposes, somebody has to know the laws. 
So thc: nc:xt time you brush off the latest show at the Snite as a waste oftimc:, remember Mort Nc:umann. And the next time you find yourselfarguing with your roommate ovc:r why th~,; h.t:ck and en­ginec:r should takc: Art Trads, tell him or hc:r tha Mobil Oil spc:nt over a million dollars in 1979 supporting the arts. You are spending three credit hours. 

~-----------. 
f 
Sports Brie_b 
Wednesday, December 2, 1981-page 8 
Thursday's Games

By The Observer and The Associflled Press 
GymiACC


;:tSASKETBALL ECAC 
F1sher v. Momssey. 6 p.m. Carrol v. Dillon I, 7 p.m 
Big boat sailors with racing experience on medium to 
large size boats are needed by the Notre Dame Sailing Club. Call Phil 
Stanford"· Grace, 8 p.m. 
Indiana 69, Notre Dame 55 
Flanner v. Zahm. 9 p.m. Notre Dame (55) 
Reynolds at 233-3411 for more details-The Observer 
BIG TEN 

p GymiiACC
Sluby 37 1-8 1-2 0 1 3 Mornssey v. Howard. 6 p.m. 
M FG-A FT-A R F 
Varner 33 4-8 2-2 7 3 10 -SEC 
Rucker 25 2-4 0-1 0 4 4 GymiiACC 
Men's Novice Crewwill hold a meeting tomorrow at 
7 p.m. in the LaFortune little theatre. Anyone interested in rowing 
Paxson 39 10-17 4-5 1 5 24 Howard v. Off-Campus, 7 p.m. 
must attend. For more information call Mike Hawboldt at 8444. 
1-3 0-0 1 4 2 Cavanaugh v. Sorin, 8 p.m. Dillon v Holy Cross. 9 p.m. 
Mitchell 21 
Andree 22 2-4 1-5 5 3 5
The Observer 
GymiVACC

Spencer 14 2-3 3-4 3 1 7 
Grace v. Flanner, 6 p.m. 
Rowan 5 0-0 0-0 1 2 0 
BIG SKY Duff 4 0-0 0-1 0 0 0 GymiVACC
The SMC ski team will hold a mandatory meeting 
200 22-47 11-20 18 23 65 Morrissey v. Alumm, 7 p.m. 
tomorrow at 6:30p.m. for all women interested in racing this season. 
FG Pet. -.468. FT Pet. -.550. Team Off-Campus I v. Off-Campus II, 8 p.m. 
rebounds-8 Turnovers-11. Asststs -8 St. Ed's v. Flanner. 9 p.m. 
(Paxson 4. Sluby and Mitchell 2 each). 
The meeting will be held in the LeMans lobby. -The Observer 
Hockey

Technicals-None. 
Tomorrow's Games Cavanaugh vs Stanford, 10:15 p.m. 
Indiana (69)
The NVA Office has announced that all interhall basket­
Flanner vs Off-Campus. 11:30 p.m M FG-A FT·A R F 
p
ball players must have their insurance forms filed in the NVA Office 
Flowers 39 5-7 1-1 7 1 11 
Graduate Basketball

( C-2 ACC) by 5 p.m. the day of their first game. All players must also 
Morgan 6 0-1 0-0 0 0 0 Saturday's Games 
remember to bring their ID's to the first-round games. -The Ob­
Blab 10 3-5 0-0 1 3 6 GymiACC H1story v. Biology, 9 a.m
Thomas 39 3-5 2-3 7 2 8 Math v. Soctology-Anthropology, 10 a.m. 
server 

Dakich 6 0-0 0-0 2 0 0 
Law School v. Chem1stry. 11 a.m.
Wtttman 34 6-10 3-4 4 2 15 
GymiiACC

Bouchie 14 1-5 2-2 3 3 4 
MBA I v. Subhumans. 9 a.m.
The interhall hockey season opens tomor­
Kitchel 34 7-12 8-8 2 4 22 
Economtcs v Psychology, 10 a.m. row night. Stanford will play Cavanaugh at I 0:1 5, and Off-Campus 
Franz 17 0-0 2-3 0 1 2 Los PendeJOS v. Job Hunters, 11 a.m. 
Brown 1 0-0 1-3 1 0 1
will take on Flanner immediately afterward. All partidpants are 
200 25-45 19-24 27 16 69
reminded that insurance forms must be in the NVA Office ( C-2 ACC) 
FG Pet. -.556. FT Pet. -.792. Team 
by 5 p.m. today. Players must also remember to have their I D's when 
rebounds-2. Turnovers-7. Assists-15 
(Thomas 5, Franz 4. Kitchel 3). Technicals-None. 
appearing at the ACC for their games. -The Observer 
Spods Writer
Halftime -Indiana 26-23 Officials -Rtchard We11er. Darwtn Brown. Eric Harmon
Saint Mary's basketball team will play Tri-State 
(all Big Ten). A-17,202. 
Inside Interhall 
_.... 
University at 7 tonight in the Angela Athletic Facility. The Belles are 1-1 going into their third game, losing to Kalamazoo Community 

CO-REC BASKETBALL-To recap the final match-ups in the co­College and defeating Kalamazoo College. 
ree tournament. the Five Back Door Men and their 20th Century Foxes will play the Lust Bombs this week and the winner will ad­
The Associated Press AII-Amenca college tootball vance to the finals to battlePLO for the title. 
first team for 1981: 

OFFENSE Tight End -'-Tim Wrightman, UCLA, 6-3, 237, Semor, San Pedro, Caht. 
Wide Rece1vers -Anthony Carter, Michigan, 5­11, 161, Jun1or, R1v1era Beach, Fla., Julius Dawkins, Pittsburgh, 6-3, 187, Jumor, Monessen, Pa. 
Tackles -Ed Muransky. M1ch1gan. 6-7. 275, Senior, Youngstown. Ohio: Terry Tausch, Texas, 6-4. 266, Semor. New Braunfels, Texas. 
Guards-Kurt Becker. M1r.h1gan. 6-6. 260. Sen1or. Aurora, Ill.: Sean Farrell, Penn State, 6-3, 263, Senior, Westhampton Beach, N.Y. 
Center -Dave A1m1ngton, Nebraska. 6-2. 283, Junior, Omaha, Neb. Quarterback-Jim McMahon, Bngham Young, 6­0, 183, Sen1or, Roy, Utah Running Backs-Marcus Allen, Southern Califor­ma, 6-2, 202, Senior, San 01ego: Herschel Walker. , Georg1a. 6-1. 220, Sophomoro. Wrightsville, Ga. Placekicker -Gary Anderson, Sy1 acuse. 5-ii, 
165. Senior, Dowmngtown, Pa. 
NOTICES 

ATTENTION ALUMS & CHICAGO 
BOUND STUDENTS: The Notre Dame Club of Chtcago wtll sponsor the1r annual Christmas Mass and Brunch on Dec. 13, 1981 at 11 am. Mass wtll be held at St. Mtchael's Pansh in Old Town. Brunch will follow at 12:30 at the Ambassador West Hotel. Please contact JoAnn at the N.D. Club off1ce at 312-263­6063 for reservations 
USED BOOK SHOP. HOURS WED.. SAT. SUN. 9-7. CASPERSON, 1303 BUCHANAN AD , NILES. 
WHO WILL HELP ME GET AID OF BEAKER? NOT I SAID KEVIN, NOT I SAID LOCK, NOT I SAID JAY WHO WILL HELP ME TAKE CARE OF THE LITTLE BEAKERS? NOT I SAID KEVIN, NOT I SAID LOCK. NOT I SAID JAY. THEN WHAT SHALL WE DO? SEND YOUR CONTRIBUTIONS TO THE 
SPAY YOUR LOCAL DOG BEAKER CAMPAIGN" (ALL CONTRIBUTIONS ARE TAX DEDUCT ABLE) 
Watch for The Society for Creative Anacromsm nght after Christmas break! 
WINDSURF NOW AVAILABLE AT THE RARE BOOKS ROOM IN THE LIBRARY. NOW ANYONE CAN DO IT IN STYLE! WIND. 
SAINT MARY'S OBSERVER PHOTOG­RAPHERS. REPORTERS, DAY EDITORS YEARBOOK PIX WEDNES­DAY NIGHT AT 6 AT SMC OFFICE·-BE THERE II! 
LOST/FOUND 

Men's Basketball Tonight's Games  CO-REC VOLLEYBALL -S Cubed still awaits an opponent that  
DEFENSE Ends -B1lly Ray Sm1th. Arkansas. 6-4. 227, Junior. Plano. Texas: Andre Ttppett, Iowa, 6-4, 235,  BIG TEN GymiACC Morrissey v. Kennan. 6 p.m. Zahm v. Alumni, 7 p.m.  will be decided after the game betweenNo Name II and theDion's Drinkers-Arkies bout. INTERHALL BASKETBALL -The men's IH-basketball season  
Semor. Newark, N Tackles-Jeff Gaylord, M1ssoun, 6-3, 235. SeniOr, Overland Park, Kan., Kenneth Sims. Texas, 6-5,270, Sen1or. Groe beck. Texas. Middle Guard -Tim Krumne, Wtsconsin, 6-3, 255, Jun1or. Mondovi. Wis.  Dillon I v Howard. 8 p.m. Grace I v. Holy Cross. 9 p.m. PAC TEN GymiiACC Flanner v. F1sher. 6 p.m.  commences tonight. See this week's schedule in Sportsboard on page 8. INTERHALL HOCKEY -The interhall skaters take to the ACC rink this week. See Sportsboard for the schedule.  
Linebackers-Johnie Cooks. Mtsstss1pp1 State. 6­4, 240. Sentor. Leland Miss., Bob Crable. Notre Dame, 6-3, 225. Semor, Cinc1nnat1; Sal Sunsen, Pitt.  Off-Campus I v. Alumnt, 7 p.m. Grace II v. Sonn, 8 p.m. St. Ed's v. Pangborn. 9 p.m.  GRAD BASKETBALL schedule opens this  -This season's graduate level basketball Saturday with many match-ups. Sec  
6 220. Senior. Pittsburgh. Backs-Terry Ktnard. Clemson. 6-1, 190. Jumor. Sumter, S.C : Mtke Richardson, Arizona State, 6-0, 195. Junior, Coplon. Calif.; Tommy Wtlcox. Alabama, 5-11, 191, Jumor. Harahan, La. Punter -Reggie Roby. Iowa. 6-3, 215, Junior, Waterloo, Iowa.  ACC GymiVACC Off-Campus II v. Cavanaugh. 6 p.m Carroll v. Dtllon II. 7 p.m. Stanford v. Grace, 8 p.m. ECAC  Sportsboard for the schedule. CLUB BASKETBALL ­The club cagcrs start tonight. NOTICES -All interhall basketball players must have insurance in to the NVA office no later than 5 p.m. before your first game. FOOTBALL EQUIPMENT RETURN -All interhall football players  
Gym IVACC  who haven't returned their equipment may do so tomorrow from  
Off-Campus v. Flanner, 9 p.m.  6:30 to 9:30p.m. at Gate 9 of the stadium.  

Classifieds 



LOST: A 58-C Texas Instrument Cal­culator about a week ago probably in the 

FOR SALE
Cell Biology Class. If found. please call 6737 or return to 143 Farley Hall. 

Have 3 basketball ttcket packages for LOST: LADIES' BROWI)I DEARSKIN sale. lower arena. Best offer Sell in­
GLOVES WITH RABBIT FUR LINING-­dividually or together. Call Mike or Ted at OLD AND MENDED--NO QUESTIONS 1181. 

WILL BE ASKED--288-9322 LOST: NO CLASS RING OUTSIDE SURPLUS JEEP. Value $3196. sold for SENIOR BAA FRIDAY NIGHT. NAME $44. Call312-742-1143 ext. 7316 for info. INSIDE IF FOUND, PLEASE CALL PHIL on how to purchase bargatns like this! PERKINS AT 8338 

STEREOS JUST IN TIME FOR X-MAS! FOUND. set of keys tn front of library FANTASTIC DEALS ON ALL MAJOR Saturday night. Call Don at 1869 to tden­BRAN'JS OF STEREO GEAR! BOSE-T­ttfy. K. JVC-MANY OTHERS-MANY SPE­
CIALS FOR THE STUDENT BUDGET!· 
FOR RENT 
I CALLJB AT8228! 

FOR NEXT SEMESTER HOUSE AND APARTMENTS 234-2626 
WANTED 
!'LORIDA nders needed for X-Mas cashw1se· the usual. call·7735 anyt1me leave message ok? 
Dnving to Detroit thts weekend? I need a ride to the Detroit a~rport on Fnday and a return on Sunday If you can help call -1188 
Need riders to OMAHA for Chnstmas. Call Carrie at 4654 
Need riders from Atlanta to NO on Jan. 10 or 11. Call Came at 4654 
MINNESOTANS!!!!!! I need a nde home to St. Paul. MN for Xmas, leav1ng the 19th. One catch --I'm graduating. and need to take all my stuff home. If you wtll take me and my stuff only, I'll pay all expenses $20. PLEASE HELP!! X3445. 
A1de needed to MINNEAPOLIS for Chnstmas break. Wtll share usual Bear 233-2912 
TO THE CUTE BLONDE IN THE WHITE SCIROCCO... IF YOU DONT HAVE ANY PLANS. DO YOU THifllK YOU COULD FIT IN A FEW DATES BEFORE YOU HIT THE SLOPES? I'D REALLY LOVE TO SEE YOU IF POSSIBLE!! -ROCCO­
I TICKETS 
Need UCLA GA·s Call John 1809 
NEED HOME BASKETBALL TIX CALL DENNIS8712 
UCLA TIX FOR SALE x3793 
wanted 4.4. or 6 ga llckets for UCLA game wtll pay mega bucks call Tod 1807 
STUDENT BBALL TICKET BOTH PAKAGES CALL TIM 232-4257 
FOR SALE 2 GA'S UCLA t1x lower arena best offer call 4375 
YES. I'm from Jersey and I need 1 or 2 UCLA ttckets. Call Deanna at 4308 for $$$! 
Have two tickets on main floor for Danger­field show on Sunday; wtll sell for best of­fer. Call John at 1526 

PERSONALS 
THE ZAHM COFFEEHOUSE IS OPEN EVERY THURSDAY FOR YOUR EXIS­TENTIAL PLEASURE. OFFERING THE FINEST IN LIVE ENTERTAINMENT, COFFEE, TEA, HOMEMADE DONUTS, FREE POPCORN AND PAT GALLAG· HER. COME DOWN AND SEE IF OUR PROFESSIONAL CONVER­SATIONALISTS ARE PAID ENOUGH. 
9-12 EVERY THURSDAY NIGHT, ZAHM BASEMENT. 
TAUFF~E. n.: ltle CJark & rugose edible subterranean fruiting body of several European ascomycetous fung1; often made into pate. 
Mo Happy Belated 21st B1rthday! to a wtse psycho who ain't very tall, but hears it all! Thanks for everythtng! We love you! your fnends, Laura, Mary Jane, Karen. Gill, and Mary 
Dear Mom, Dad, Anne, Joe. And Kat1e. Thanx for a great Thanksgtving! See ya soon. I Love You! Mary 
December 2. I couldn't miss wishtng you a 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY! Have a wonderful day and CELEBRATE!!! August 8 P.S. Buy ya a marguerite? 
Cheryl E. 
You can do things between the 
blankets in the back of a van that other 
women only dream of. Thanks for the 
wonderful ttme on the road to and from IU. 
Dave, Mtke, John, Chris, and Tom 
To x31. This ones early, but, anyway, GOOD LUCK agatnst UCLA! Heard you d1d pretty well in the last game. See ya ·round. Maryland Sunshine 
SAY HAPPY HOLIDAYS AND SHOW HER THAT YOU CARE WITH A BOU­QUET OF FLOWERS DELIVERED EACH WEDNESDAY FOR 4 WEEKS. (WE CAN BREAK. FOR XMAS BREAK OR WILL DELIVER IF YOUR LADY IS STAYING ON CAMPUS/ IN TOWN. WEDNESDAYS FLOWERS 289 1211 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY AILEEN ALLARD!! 
Ola. Mdn maste btnda stg tallsammans med ett lag er hemhg beundrare 
MOVIE. MAGNUM FORCE see 1! tomght at the K of C BUILDING 7. 9. 11 pm. members tree 
DEAR GREG, I LOVE YOU. BONNIE 
GIRLS OF ND-SMC!!!!! Today 1s John March s 20th b-day. Call thiS super stud at 1697 and wtsh htm a happy one. c·dehver hts b-day ktsses tn person to 229 Dillon' (How much is 1t worth to you for Ktm not to find out about this, John?) 
Mark I remember I almost got an A mtnus once· IS contemplating g01ng to the Mor­nssey dance w1th h1s E-Phys book. Call 3592tf you have any better ideas. Hell go wtth any two legged creature (dead or alive). 
Club Basketball 

Tonight's Games Army ROTC A v. Navy ROTC Gold, 10 p.m. (Gym I ACC) ­Army ROTC B v. Navy ROTC Blue, 10 p.m. (Gym II ACC) Mtcro B1ology v. Scuba Club, 10 p.m. (Gym IV ACC) 
Tomorrow's Games Rook & Euchre v German II, 10 p.m (Gym I ACC) Rowtng v. German I. 10 p.m. (Gym II ACC) Ph1la. v. AFAOTC, 10 p.m. (Gym IV ACC) 
The interha/1 racquetball tournaments enter their closing rounds this week. Pairings are listed below. It Is the responsibility of each participant to contact his or her opponent and set up a match. Results of matches must be turned In to the interha/1 office (C-2 ACC) before noon on the following Tuesday. Failure to report results will mean disqualification of both participants. 
Men's Semifinals Tony Pierce (1424) v. Atch Cordova (1249) NetI Chadwtck (277-6320) v. Tony Catenne (1621) 
Women's Finals Pam Gorskt (1262) v. Martha Gallagher (4312) 
Men's Grad-Fac Jim Croke (234-2880) v. Ken Roos (277-7158) Women's Grad-Fac 
Winner's Bracket Finals Sally Derengosk1 (277-7325) v. Joan Doversp1ke (7711) 
Loser's Bracket Finals Sue Roberts (282-1029) v. Jane Barker (272-7325) 

The Observer will accept classifteds Mon­day through Fnday. 10 a.m. to 4.30 p.m However. classifieds to appear tn the next tssue must be recetved by 3 p.m. the bustness day pnor to insertion. All classifteds must be prepatd. etther in person or through the mail. 
Experienced typist --reasonable Mrs. Bedford 288-2107 Hours BAM to 5PM 
TYPING DONE ON CAMPUS BY PROFESSIONAL SECRETARY. LOW RATES, QUICK SERVICE. CALL X· 1315. 
NIGHTSOUNDS 105 FM 10:30 P M. 
ATTENTION· ATTENTION 
The Notre Dame chapter of the 
HE-MAN WOMAN HATERS CLUB 
is be1ng brought to life. You too can 
express your dissatistactton wtth, as our 
esteemed President calls them, the non­
males on the ND-SMC campuses. Stay 
tuned to this column for further detatls, a 
prestdenttal address, and upcoming 
lectures sponsored by the HMWHC. 
I NEED A RIDE TO AND FROM PH ILLY AT CHRISTMAS. CAN LEAVE ON THE 19TH OR AFTER WILL SHARE USUAL. CALL MAAYEVA AT 2915. 
Sweet love, sweet love, o sneeze thy frying. If you know what I mean. 
Go. Chamber Pots! 
CLASS OF 83 JUNIOR SKI TRIP ! 
WEEKEND OF FEB. 12.13, and 14 
BOYNE MOUNTAIN AND HIGHLANDS 
$15 DEPOSIT DUE TUESDAY DEC 1 LA 
FORTUNE 6:30-8.00 AND WED. DEC 2 FIRST COME FIRST SERVE 
STUDENT REP NEEDED to promote our annual spnng break lnps to Flonda. FREE TRIP TO FLORIDA plus commiSSIOn Call or wnte. Coastal Tours. 5461 N East Atver Road. Ch1cago. IL 60656 (312) 693­4759 
Tt>e personal battle has begun May 11 contmue unconst1pated and unedtted!!! Two weeks of 1mplytng, tnventtng and revealing obnox1ous. vulgar. mcnm1nat1ng hes that can tarmsh even the worst of reputat1ons. LONG LIVE SMUT!'! llove il! 
ALL SAINT MARYS OIJSEAVER REPORTERS, PHOTOGRAPHERS. DAY EDITORS YEARBOOK PICTURE AT 6 PM WEDNESDAY AT SMC OFFICE--BE THERE!!' 
CRYSTAL ROCKS--at Chautauqua Sat nite. Come get off on Rock'n Roll-by CRYSTAL!! 

LISA Bubba" SIROKY, HAPPY 21st BIRTHDAY!!! So glad one of us is finally legal! We love you (and your 1.0.). -The QwazyQutnt 
To the girl who loves CREAMED CORN­If he says yes (and he will) you must write your romantic fantasy and let me read it. Remember, realism Will not be tolerated! The Romantic 
I need a ride back to N.D. from Purdue Sun. Dec 6-Will pay usual. Call MARK 8317 
Show a fnend or sweetheart that you care -Send a CANDYGRAM! 
Go SWIMMERS!-Beat J.C U. Don't dts­appotnt your fans! 
A tnvta qu12 for Mike from Kettering ­What was Carne·s last name? What isMs Ste1n·s mtddle name? What planet are we on? What is your favorite color? P T 
Is it true you ktlled a man? 
Attention Please -Whoever has stolen BETH SULLIVAN's Santa Claus had bet­ter return 1t now! 
Walsh has 1ts own POAB! 
Happy Birthday Patty M. Love M.L. 
Lady Di. Why do you he? Although you told me you were ex­penenced (sophomore) I knew that you were 1nexpenenced (freshman accordtng to the phone book) when you dtd not know what mornmg Sickness was! 
Love. Pnnce Charles 

WE WOULD LIKE TO THANK THE GIRLS FROM B P FOR THEIR HOSPITALITY AFTER OUR PORTA-PARTY! LOVE. THE GUYS FROM 9-C GRACE. 
Q Who heads the Yukon Church? 
A. The Peep. supernaturally. 
The Restless Shade of Moose Control Peep Heap 
__________ -41 

The Ohservcr Sports 
Wednesday, December 2, 1981 page 9 
• • • Item.s 


continuedfrom page 12 coach in college football history. record with wins over fellow Divi­The composer obviously took ad­sion II foes West Liberty, Cenrral
th..: ..:ntir..: s..:a~on, which tks tht: vantage of much artistic licens..:, State, California State of P..:nnsylva­
singk-s..:ason t..:am record set in since one line of the song recounts nia, Slippery Rock, Indiana Univ. of
1941. 
that "Th..: Gipper would tell old Pennsylvania and Kutztown.
On the individual side, Greg Bell's Rockn..: he's the hest h..:'s ever In fact, the Clarion State faithful
9H-yard kickoff return tied him for 
seen...When the Bear wins numher arc so happy about their current
third on the list of longest returns. 
31 S..." 
standing that one school represc:nta·
<ieorge .\1elinkovich returned a For the record, "The Bear" has a tive phoned The Obsen•er office four
kickoff the samt· distant·e against commanding 0-4 record against times until he ti>Und someone to tell
Northwestt·rn in 19 32. Tht: last time Notr..: Dam..:. 
about it.
aQ Irish player had returned a kickoff THE NUMBERS GAME -Friday's TAKE A BOW -Observer staffers
for a touchdown was back in 1973, 
"game" in Miami assured the Irish of .\1ike Ortman and Skip Desjardin
when AI llunter toted the hall 93 
their tirst losing season since 1963 presented representing
yards against Alabama in the 1973 a check and snapped their string of con­roughly 59000 to Bobby Knight and
Sugar Bowl. 
secutive winning seasons at I 7, a timner Indiana Governor OtisDave Duerson's HH-yard intercep· 
tion return wa~ fact that makes the people at Clarion Bowen prior to last night's game in
the 11fth longest in 

State in Pennsylvania very happy. Bloomington. The check
Irish history and the longest since a According to NCAA rankings, represented Notre Dame student
92-yard theft return hy Nick Rassas 
Alabama's 24 consecutive winning and staff contributions to Theagainst Northwestern in 196';. The seasons is the top current string in Ohserver-Landon Turner Fund, as
last time an Irish defender returned the country, followed hy Nehraska well as benefit donations from local
an interception for a touchdown 
and USC at 20 and Tennessee State at residents. The appreciative Indianawas last season, when Tom Gihhons 
I 9. Going into the season, Clarion fans responded with a one-minute Fighting Irish middle linebacker Bob Crable(43), here returning
ran S.3 yards with another Miami 
State and Notn· Dame were tied for standing ovation in thanks to the an interception against Georgia Tech, bas been named to The· As·
aerial. 
the next spot at I7. Unlike the Irish, Notre Dame and South Bend com­sociated Press All-America Team. Crable set a career record for
On the otht:r side ofthe field, Hur­
Clarion State rosted a successful 6-4 munity. tackles at Notre Dame. (pboto bJ• Tom O'Brien)
ricane punter Dan Miller tied the Notre Dame record ti>r most field goals hy an opponent with three thrl·e-pointers, all in the second 
.. : .. 

quarter. WilEN IT RAINS IT POURS-As if 

JUNIORS!!! 
this year's foothall season was not disappointing enough for Gerry l:'aust, his Cincinnati Moeller High School team was hlanked I 3·0 by Canton McKinley over the weekend 
LOTTERY for Morris Inn rooms for 
in the Ohio state d1ampionships. PUT ON YOUR HIP BOOTS -In the fine. ( ?) tradition of "The Little 
February 19-21 Junior Parents·'
Blue Nun" and other timeless musi· cal classics from the state of Alahama. another artistic creation 
Weekend will be on Wednesday,
has sprung from the pen of some Confederate composer. 
December 2 1n LaFortune Nazz
This time the song com­memorates the 31 "ith coaching vic· 
7:30pm.
tory of Coach Paul "Bear" Bryant, which vaulted him over Amos Alonzo Stagg as thl· winningest 
~'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-. 
'~ . . ~ ­
~ ' 
i oafather's Pizza® i 
~ ~ 
I ~ 
~ ~ 
~ ~ 
~ I 
~ I 
~ ~. ~ ~ 
I ~ 
I ROSELAND 277-5880 I 
1 ~ I 
IDELIVERINGto II NOTREDAME ii and SAINT MARY'S i·­!~ Medium Size: !~ 
~ ~
! -pepperoni -sausage -combo ! 
~ ~ 
~ ~ 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-..~ ~ ....~,,~.......................................~................~~~........~~~................~~~~~........~~....~~..........-' 
---------------· 
The Observer -Sports Wednesday, December 2, 1981 -page 10 
• • • Hurricanes 
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 

When the guys at Miller asked me to write an ad on writing, I said, "Forget it. Not even if you held a gun to my head:' So they held a bottle of Lite Beer to my mouth. 
They're a pretty persuasive group. 
THUGS TO MUGS 
If you're going to write anything, know what you're talking about. And that means three thinus: Research. research, and more research. The more you know, the more you can tell your reader. 
Take my characters. A lot of them I base on actual people. There's this buddy of mine who pops up in every book I write. In one story he's a cop. In another. a pri­vate eye. Once, I made him a millionaire. Using hirn not only helped make character developrrent a heck of a lot easier, he was so carried away by the rich image, he bought me a lot of free dinners (and a lot of Lite Beer from Miller). So use the people you know as models. 
Even locations should be bas,.ed on real things. If you're writing about a bar, know that bar. Hang out there. Watch the bartender. The customers. Whatever they drink, you drink. When they drink Lite Beer, you drink Lite Beer. Re­member-research is most fun when you soak up as much subject matter as you can. It can only help you paint a better picture. 
HI, DOLL 
No caper is complete without dames (or ladies in proper English). Experience has shown me that in mystery writing, the sexier the dames, the better. Experience has also shown me that sexy scenes make great punctuation marks. This is where research has the greatest potential. Use your own discretion in this matter. But when you write about it, don't be too explicit. That way, your reader gets to paint a more vivid picture. 
CAPER TO PAPER 
O.K.. you've got your characters, loca­tions, and dames lined up. Now comes the good part: Putting your caper to paper. There's no mystery to it. As long as you write the ending first, the rest will follow. Write short, terse, to-the-point sentences. Be as clear as possible. And make sure you've got the right stuff around for when you get thristy. After all, writing is pretty thirsty work. 
I suggest a couple of mugs of Lite Beer-who ever heard of a caper that didn't involve a couple of mugs? 
Why Lite Beer? It's a lot like me and my books-great taste, less filling (some pebple can't get their fill of my books), and always good to spend time with. 
At any rate, follow my advice and, who knows-you might turn out a heck of a story. Or you might turn out to be a heck of a Lite Beer drinker. 

-; 

Notre Dame's Kevin Griffith (left) and john Krimm have been honored as Academic All-Americans in the NCAA's Distrift Four. The selection places the two seniors on the ballotfor the national team to be chosen Dec. 9. 
when Tennessee beat them 40-18. 
"We just ran our basic attack," ex­plained UM's coach, "but Jim did a good job of audibilizing. We were hitting them away from the strengh oftheir defense." 
Kelly, who threw scoring strikes of 18 and 63 yards, set both single season and career passing yardage and passing touchdown records with his efforts. 
"We accomplished what we wanted to do," said Kelly. "The first half was probably the best our of­fense played all year. Their secon_­dary was daring us to go deep so we tested them. They never adjusted to what we were doing." 
"I felt good going into this game because we had the right combina· tion ofoffense and defense to handle Notre Dame," said Schnellenberger. "The offense played the first half as well as anyone's capable of playing. And the defense took over in the second half and totally dominated. We accomplished what no one in football thought we could do." 
"This has to be the biggest thing that's ever happened to me." 
".\1aybe instead of people looking to kno<:'k :\lotre Damc," offered wide receiver \like Rodrigue::, on rhc end of one of Kelly's touchdown pa_.,~es. "thev should just praise us." 
• Hoops 
continuedfrompage 12 
said. "We played well for the first 12. then we lost our intensity -of­fensively and defensively." 
The loss left Notre Damc 1-1 and looking to Saturday's matchup with UCL\. 
We're going to go home, get some rest and go back to work tomor­row," Phdps said. "UCLA is coming off a tough loss to Brigham Young. They'll be gunning for us. 
''I don't worry about losing early," hc said. "We've got a whole season to grow up. Indiana was 7-'i in December last year, and they won it all. UCLA was 8-6 by New Year's Day two years ago, but they went to the NCAA final game. 
"A lot of things can happen be­
tween now and March." 
IRISH ITEMS -Paxson fouled out 
ofa game for only the second time in 
his career. but at least two ofhb fivc 
fouls were intentional fouls late in 
thc game . . . The Hoosiers out· 
rebounded the Irish 29-28, but 
:\lotre Dame was credited with eight 
team grabs as opposed to Indiana's 
two ... Turnovers were a problem 
as well, as Notre Dame had given the 
ball up I I rimes to only four times 
for the Hoosiers at one point in the 
game. 
BECOME AN EXPERT IN FOREIGN LANGUAGE 
Training includes theory and practical experience. When 

the training is complete, you will work overseas, using the language. In addition to pay and training, you 
will receive a cash bonus of $1500 to $4000 if you qualify. You may also be able to 
accrue an additional $15,200 to $20,100 for college. Call Army 
Opportunities SFC Hamilton 234-4187 

continuedfrom page 12 
wanted to show everyone we could do it." 
Miami's senior class had a lot to prove. They were touted as one of the best bunch of recruits in the school's history. When coach Lou Saban signed them, he felt their potential could take Miami to the top. 
"I made the statement that they had a ch'!nce to be the national champion," said Saban from New York last week. "I wasn't too far off." 
"Most classes can't come in and say they're going for the national championship in four years, and come as close as we did," noted defensive end Tim Flanagan. "I can't think about the probation now, I want to remember this positively." 
"This win wraps up four years of hard work toward respectability and national prominence for us," said Marion. "When I first came here we couldn't even stay on the field with Notre Dame." 
"We dominated Notre Dame like we were playing North Carolina State," added linebacker Scott Nicolas. "They may have thought they cuuld come in here and shove the ball down our throats like they did last year, but we've improved in every respect since then." 
---~~----~-·~---­
-

The Obs.erver 
T0 da~==============W=e=d::;n=es=d=a=y=,D=e=ce=m=b=e=r=2=,1=9=8=l==p=ag=e=::;ll 
Molarity 




The Daily Crossword 
Michael Molinelli 
Campus 

/~ GIVEN 7H£ I?EUC4CY OF 71115 
I(!Ni? OF r.:¥3PLOYMtNT, 7Hf Tf:CJINIC4L ASPEV5 AJ<E f1'RY
1 
/AJORRISOM/3. FRIWKJ.Y, I'M 
NOT PERSIJAJ)E[) WE COUW
\ 
•~' r.:¥3LJVCR. SUCH A WeAPON ON TIM£ IWO ON TAR6&T 

•12: 
I Sp.m. -Seminar, "Host-parasite Interac­tions in Chronic Infections" Dr. Maurice). Lefford, Wayne St. U. School of Medicine, Galvin Auditorium, Sponsored by Microbiology Depart· ment 

•3:30 
p.m. -Seminar, "Parametric Cost Estima­tion," Frank Freiman, Freiman Parametric Systems, 356 Fitzpatrick, Sponsored by the Department of Aero/Mechanical Engineering 

• 
3:30 p.m. -Seminar, "Mechanisms of Strain Aging," Dr. U. Fred Kocks, Argonne National Laboratory, I05 Cushing Hall, Sponsored by Material Science 

•7:00 
p.m. -Swimming, ND women vs. Saint Mary's College, Rockne Pool 

•7:30 
p.m. -Lecture, "On the Literature of the Bible", Elic Wiesel, author, Washington Hall, Sponsored by University Press 

•7:30p.m. 
-Lel·ture, "The World of'lnner Space':


HMM.. ftfR PRESI!?ENT, WHAT DO I UKE 77J THIN!< 
Quarks, Leptons, Photons, Gluons & All That," 
YOU THINK, H!fi?OSH!MA SPEAKS 
Professor V. Paul Kenney, Notre: Dame:, Library
AL ? \ FOR. ITSa.t=. 
Auditorium, Sponsored by Student Council, Col· lege ofScienct• 
•Hp.m. 
-Lecture, "The Old Ball Game: A Pre­Columbian Religious Movement," Douglas Bradley, Curator, Snitc Museum, Annenberg Auditorium, Sponsored by Snite Museum •• 

•9p.m. 
-Meeting, Fellowship of Christian Ath· letcs, Howard Hall social space, all arc invited 


Television Jeb Cashin 
Tonight 
Wednesday, December 2 


ACROSS 
1 Hollywood studio monogram 
4 Gush out 
8 Bass,e.g. 12 Anger 13 Visual 15 "Essays 
of-" 16 Scale 
notes 17 Fashionable 18 Comrade 19 A fast food 22 Peopleof 
Panjim 23 Kitty 24 Playing 
7:00p.m. 
7:30p.m. 
8:00p.m. 

46 Baker's 10 Part of cousin? RSVP 
8:30p.m. 47 Bill's 11 Fodder partner 13 Aloof 
9:00p.m. 48 Residue 14 Nicklaus 49 Some gem Nebraska 20 Aureole cityfolk 21 Snack food 53 Contributed 26 Ready 
9:30p.m. 

as toward 27 Eelpout 
10:00p.m. a gift 28 Orchestra 56 Span member 59 Armexer· 29 Fishermen's cise spot 60 "-were 30 "Beautiful" king" river 
10:30p.m.

61 Italian 31 Don't 
ll:OOp.m.

city 32 ln­62 Strengthens (wealthy) 
16 MASH 22 CBS News 28 joker's Wild 34 The MacNeil/lehrer Report 46 Believer's Voice of Victory 16 Allin The Family 22 Family Feud 28 Tie Tac Dough 34 Straight Talk 
46 Oral Roberts 16 Real People 22 Mr. Merlin 28 Greatest American Hero 34 Christmas Eve On Sesame Street 46 Lester Sumrall Teaching 22 WKRP In Cincinnati 46 The Renewed Mind 16 Facts OfUfe 22 Nurse 28 Oral Roberts Fall Special 34 Snow Goose 
46 Today With Lester Sumrall 16 Love, Sidney 16 Quincy 22 Shannon 2K Dynasty 34 The Making Of The Raiders Of The 
Lost Ark 46 Calvary Temple 46 Michiana Today 16 Nc.:wsCenter 16 22 22 Eyewitness News 28 Nc.:wswatch 2H 46 Praise.: The.: Lord 16 Tonight Show 22 WKRP/Featurc.: Movie 28 ABC News Nlghtlinc.: 34 The.: Dick Cavell Show 28 Love.: Boat 
46 Lester Sumrall Teaching 16 Tomorrow Coast To Coast 46 The.: Renewed Mind 
25 Cartoonist Thomas 27 Cleaning 
implement 30 Walking 33 Hebrew 
bushel 34-supra 35-polloi 36 Housing 
agcy. 38 Infant 39 Dance 
or nail 40 Office­
holders 41 Vendetta 43 Wobble 45 Cryof 
area: abbr. wonderment 63 Evil 37 East 64 A Carter city 
11:30p.m.

Tuesday's Solution 65 Printer's 42 Teensy 
term  tear  
66 Crone  44 Come­ 
agreement  
DOWN  48 -off the  12:00a.m.  
1 Displease  old block  
2 Yankee  50 Brawl  12:30a.m.  
Nettles  51 Grownup  
3 Angler's  52 European  


big catch capital 4 Stone of-54 Places 
Today in History
5 Places for 55 Circlet 
fish 56 Network 6 Neuter letters 7 Desire 57 Stadium 
Today's highlight in history: 
8 Observance sound 
In 1804, Napoleon Bonaparte crowned himself 
9 Ailing 58 Dernier-
Emperor Napolc.:on I of France. 

,;rama A lBJBB&Ia '8BJrGEB 
STUDENT UNION Presents: 
~AllaiJ A~ ~l:m~il@ffi 
; "Do Black Patent Leather 
~®JSllCBill~~~~ 
ShoesReally Reflect Up?" 
~~~UJ~COll~2L a 
3rd Hit Year in Chicago Transportation 

& Ticket $22 per person. Limited Tickets 
Available Bus departs 6:15 pm, Friday, Dec. 
9:-30-2:00 
4th. Returns to ND immediately after show. Arrive 1:15 am. 
--------~ -~-·­
-----,---~--=---~--_____
r 
t 
Wednesday, December 2, 1981 -page 12 
l' 
I 
After slow start 
IU Hoosiers outplay Irish 

BySKIP DESJARDIN 
Associate Sports Editor 
BLOOMINGTON, Ind. -When 
all was said and done, Ted Kitchel 
and Randy Wittman made the dif­
ference. 
Indiana's top returnees scored 22 
and I 5 points respectively, as the 
Hoosiers handed Notre Dame its 
first loss of the season, 69-55. 
Indiana Coach Bobby Knight 
surprised many observers by start­
ing four freshmen. The move 
worked, as Hoosier regulars came in 
and were fresh late in the first half. 
"Kitchell came off the bench and 
turned things around," Digger 
Phelps said after the game. "He did 
things inside that really hurt us." 
The 6-8 forward picked up 14 
points in the first half and led the 
Hoosiers in scoring. 
In the second half, it was Wit­
tman's turn. After 0 for 4 shooting in 
the first half, the 6-5 guard got hot. 
He hit all6 ofhis shots after halftime, 
pounding the final nail into Notre 
Dame's coffin. 
"We played very well for the first 
12 minutes," Phelps said. But In­
diana wiped out a 22-16 Irish lead by 
reeling offeight unanswered point ts 
before the half. 
"I thought our starters played 
great," said Knight of his freshmen. 
"They played so well, I almost put 
them back in when things were 
going bad." 
Injuries played a key role in the 
Irish loss, as Tim Andree and Bill Var· 
ncr played hurt. 
"After about five minutes, my calf 
felt like jello," said Andree. "I was 
very physically tired. Eventually I 
had to use positioning to get 
rebounds. I just couldn't get off the 
floor." 
NBC shows UCLA in ACC 

BRUISED BRUINS -The Irish entertain UCLA Satur· 
~ day in what has become one ofthe classic rivalrks in all ofcollege basketball. NBC-TV will beam the game to a nationwide television audience beginning at 2 p.m. in the first offour Irish games to be shown by the peacock network (UCLA in Los Angeles, DePaul and Michigan in the Pontiac Silverdome are the other three). The Bruins own a 16-1 I edge in the all-time series and won both gamt:s played last year, 94-81 on the coast in December and -; 1-50 at the ACC in early February. Besides being the only blemish on Notre Dame's 16-I home record last ~cason, UCLA won two games over Notre Dame in the same season for the first time since 1972-73. The Irish and Bruins have met twice annually every year since 1971·72 when Digger Phelps assumed the Irish cage helm. Phelps owns a 9-11 record against the Westwood wonders and the Irish have won seven ofthe last I 1 games. Notre Dame and UCLA have split the 12 series games _,. played in tlte ACC, with the Bruins providing the only home court setback of the season in 1976-77 and 1978­79, along with last year. The Bruins, ranked second in The Associated Press's preseason listings, succumbed to Brigham Young 79-75 on Friday and edged Pepperdine 76-69 Saturday. The Bruins travel to the Meadowlands in New Jersey for a Thursday night date with Rutgers before journeying to South Bend. MIDWEST HOSPITALITY? -The Bruins will be led into the ACC on Saturday by first-year head coach Larry Farmer, who probably doesn't have fond memories of the Irish home court. A I973 graduate of UCLA, Far­mer's only loss as a player was an 89-82 setback to Notre Dame in 1971. The odds may be against Farmer on Saturday, since on the last three occasions that a new UCLA coach has 
cnt<:red the ACC for the first time, Notre Dame has 
ernerged victorious. A pair ofJohn Paxson free throws 
in -the waning seconds welcomed Larry Brown with a 
77-74 loss in 1979, while the Irish have spoiled tht· 
beginnt:r·~ luck of Gene Bartow (95-85 in 1975) and 
Gary Cunningham ('75-7 3 in 1977 ). 
WORDS OF WITDOM-As you read Skip(Clement) 
Desjardin's story ahout the Indiana game on these same 
pages, keep in mind what Hoosier coach Bobby Knight 
says about sportswriters: "All of us learn to write in the second or third grade. Some ofus move on to other things." 
ACADEMIC ACCOLADES -Irish seniors John Krimm and Kevin Griffith have both been named to the NCAA District Four Academic All-America football team. Krimm, a fellow philosophy major, has main­tained a 3.70 academic average while starting at corner· back for three years. Griffith, a defensive end from Kettering, Ohio, has earned a 3.30 grade average in government. 
Both Krimm and Griffith, who plan to attend law school, will be listed on the ballot for the national Academic All-America team, to be announced Dec. 9. 
STAGE FRIGHT -Last Friday's disaster in Miami 
marked the fourth straight nationally or regionally 
televised game that the Irish have lost. Along with the 
3 7· I 5 setback to Miami, the Irish lost 25· 7 to Michigan 
(the worst loss of the season before Miami) earlier this 
year. Last year, both of Notre Dame's losses, 20-3 to 
Southern Cal and 17-10 to Georgia were nationally 
televised as well. 
The last game the Irish won on live television was a 
7-0 win over Alabama in Birmingham last season in a 
nationally beamed battle, while the Irish also whipped 
Purdue 31·1 0 on regional TV that year. 
RECORD SETBACKS-The last team before Miami to beat the Irish by 22 points was Tennessee, who thrashed the Irish 40-18 at the end of the 7-4 1979 
season. 
RECORD-SETTERS -The Miami game was not a complete loss, since the Irish did tie one team standard, and two individmils wrote their names into the Irish record books. Notre Dame lost only six fumbles during 
See ITEMS, page 9 
It was Andree's first action since tearing ligaments in his ankle in a preseason practice session. Varner was on the mend as well, recovering from a dislocated toe. 
"It's sore," Varner said. "It really started bothering me in the second half." 
Knight conceded that the injuries to the Irish front-liners played a big part in the final outcome. 
"Ifthose two guys had been in top shape, this would have gone down to the wire," he said. 
Phelps told reporters ater the game that the contest was lost on the offensive boards. 
"You can't win against a bigger team without getting offensive rebounds," he said, shaking his head. "You just can't afford to have one of your guys up front pull down just one offensive board. 
''They beat us. I have no excuses. 
We were outplayed inside and on 
the boards." 
John Paxson led all scorers with 24 points, but many of them came late in the game when the outcome was no longer a question. 
"We've got to learn to con­centrate for a full 40 minutes," he 
See HOOPS, page 10 

Hurricanes celebrate team 's greatest day 
By KELLY SULLIVAN better performance than the one Sports Writer they orcht:strated in the Orange Bowl Friday. "What could we do for MIAMI, Fla. -"It shouldn't end an encore?" asked all-American here," .'vliami fans were complaining safety Fred Marion. "A bowl should after their big win Friday over Notre be the climax of your season, but Dame. "We should be going to a winning some minor bowl would bowl." have been a letdown compared to 
The Hurricaines, on NCAA proba­this." tion, are banned from post-season Schnllenberger knew emotions play, but they made the most oftheir would be high among the seniors in opportunity to show people they're their tlnale, but was he surprised by for real. the early and seemingly easy 
"This is the greatest <.lay in Univer­domination his club assumed? sity of Miami football history," said "I don't like the '1\'0fd surprised," UM Coach Howard Schnellenber­he responded. "I like the word ger. "The stage was set for some· delighted better." thing classical to happen and it did. I "We came into this game really think it demonstrates that we havt: contldcnt, but not overcontldent," arrived." offerl'd quarterback Jim Kelly. "We 
And maybe it's just as well that his Sec HURRICANES, page 10team doesn't have to come up with a 
'Always next year ' only solace for Irish 
Isn't it amazing how one loss can turn a "disappointing" season into a "disastrous" season. But what made last Friday's loss in sunny Miami so disastrous was that it made Gerry Faust's initial Notre Dame campai-gn a losing season. 
There's something about the word "loser" that just doesn't set so well on the Notre Dame campus. No doubt the more boisterous members of the "Notre Dame Family," the ones who boast of Iri!.h exploits without thinking twice, were catching a considerable amount of much deserved abuse at weekend social functions. 
The losing numbers hold up. The Irish managed to beat losers and lose to winners. The five teams Notre Dame beat own a combined 19-32-1 record (Georgia Tech and Liberty Bowl-bound Navy still have their season finales remaining against Georgia and Army respectively). On the other hand, the six teams to beat the Irish have finished their seasons with a combined 45-20-1 mark. 
To further the argument, consider that of the five Irish victims only Navy will finish with a winning record ( 7-3 at present), and the Middies defeated only two teams with winning records (Citadel 7-3­1 and Eastern Kentucky 10-1 ). At the same time, Purdue ( S-6) was the only "loser" to beat Notre Dame. 
It all adds up to mediocrity. In general, the Irish could beat the poor teams but couldn't defeat the good ones. 
Perhaps the Blue and Gold had it coming to them. After the rash of miracle finishes ofthe past, this may have been God's way ofevening the score. 
Ifyou read between the lines, you'll see that part of Faust's rookie year was a big winner. It seems an eternity ago when he and his staff posted a resounding victory in the recruiting war. You'd have to go a long way back to find a year when so many freshmen made sig­nificant contributions-Joe Howard,Joe]ohnson, Mike Gann, Mike Larkin, Mark Brooks, Chris Smith, Joe Bars and Mike Golic. 
Another solid recruiting year, coupled with the fact that only Crable, Krimm, Oliver and Pozderac will have graduated from the starting lineup that closed. out the season, could be cause for springtime optimism. Yet people (Faust included) will be reluctant, no doubt, to spout off too much this time, fearing they again will be burned. 

··­





