Volleyball -page 6 

VOL XVI, NO. 10 an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and saint mary's MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 7, 1981 
Murday seeks to make senate "efective body"
• 

,1,s prestdent of the Notre Dame student hodv. Don Murdav is called to act .n a /tats/on between tbe ad­miTJistratlu11 ami students as be deals with the many problems facing Notre Dame students. Ob­server senior sluff reporter David Sarpbie talked with Murday about, the challenges ofthe comingyear. 


Q: flow willyouradministration differ from lust year's student gcJIIernment? 
A: Probably the most drasti t·hange Is that last year, Paul Riehk fol·used his admin1station on the es­tablishment of the student senate and to try to work out all the bugs that might have prevented it from ht-comlng a very effective body. He did so, and basically what he has dont· Is turn the key ovt·r to me and said "Look, you have the foundation now to do something, and it's up to you to get tht: hall rolling." So, what Wt' have plannt·d for tht· st·nate Is to 
ac.Jdrt·ss all the issues that pertain to the University, both on and off t·ampus. We're going to try to make the st·nate an effective body by ac­t:ompllshlng t:crtain goals that we have 'tel for ourselves. Basically, these goals are to address major areas of con<.·ern that the students have. 
Q: What effect will this har1e on the Campus Life Cou11cil? 
A: I plan to use the CLC more of­ten than Paul did last year. I believe Paul didn't use the CLC just for the fact that he was very busy In setting up tht: senate and felt that that's where his attention should be. I think the CLC Is a very Important body for the students In that not on­ly Is It just the students who are voicing their opinions and concerns but It's also the other facets of the 
By CAROL CAMP 
News Staff 
Under the guidance ofStudent Ac­tivities Director Jim McDonnell, a seven -member committee will dctl·rmine the allocations campus clubs and organizations are to receive this year. 
Students annually pay a S25 stu­dent activities fee. Revenue generated is then divided between student government, which receives 80 percent ofthe funds, and various campus organizations, which receive the remaining 20 per­cent. 
The branches of Student Govern­ment that reccl',re the majority ofthe funds Include 1ln: Student Union, Ombudsman, Student Government, Off-campus Activities, Judicial Coor­dinator, and An Tostal. The remain­ing 20 J.:ercent is divided In several 
Placement Office initiates newcomputersystem 
By DAVID GUFFEY 
News Staff 

This week, the Notre Dame Placement office begins its annual ef­
forts to bring prospective emplO}t:rs and students together with the 
help ofa new computerized sys~em. 

Under the old system, students were assigned placement Interviews on a first-come, first-serve basis. As a result, 50-75 students usually camped out in LaFortune on Sunday nights waiting to sign-up for inter­views on Monday morning. 
This year, there will be no need for interview seekers to line-up early on Sunday due to the new computerized method of assigning andom assigning of interview slots. After initially registering with the Bureau, persons wanting interviews apply for them on Mondays and Tuesdays two weeks In advance. 
The application, called the Interview Preference form, is fed into a computer which randomly a.o;signs Interviews ba.'iCd on the apllicant's date ofgraduation, level ofinterest in the interview as indicated on the Preference form. and the number ofinterviews the person has already had. 
Results are then posted in the Placement office, room 213 in the Adminstratlon building by the following Tuesday. Interview slots left blank by the computer may be taken by Interested students at that time. On Wednesday those Interview slotsstill not fllled may be taken . 
See PLACEMENT, page 4 

school. That's very important be­cause onen these other facets arc in concurrence with the students. It Is also important because it will showcase to the students where the students stand and where the ad­ministration stands. I will not set a regular meeting for the CLC, however we will be meeting on an ad hoc basis to address the issues that arise that need the input of the 
CLC. A few examples are the re­evaluation of party rooms to get the input from the admlnlstation and from the rectors, who experience the problems first-hand. Sometimes, unfortunately, the students shut down any ideas other than their own. J'm a tlrm believer in having an open mind, and taking into account the concerns of the faculty and ad­ministration before making any decisions. 

Defense Secretary Casper Weinberger smiles after See Q 4 A, page 4 bitting a target with a laser-equipped M-16 rifle while 
From campus groups 
Budgeting comtnittee a"\Vaits fund requests 
ways. 
The majority of the money is ear­
marked for volunteer services. 
McDonnell commented, "These 
people contribute services and time 
to help the less fortunate; thus, we 
try to provide as much funding a.'i 
possible so they can do volunteer 
work. We want them to spend time 
helping people rather than raising 
funds." 

The present appropriations sys­tem was adopted two years ago after it was determined that clubs and other organizations were being left "hard-pressed for funding." Under the previous structure, students were charged a sr• enteen dollar ac­tivity fee, which was then dis­tributed between all facets of campus activities. McDonnell said Student Government did not receive enough money. 
With the present system, clubs 
and special projects received as 
much as S32,800 last year. Student 
Government received an estimated 
S20-25,000 In additional appropria­
tions last year. 
To receive consideration for fun­ding by, clubs and organizations should submit seven copies of a written request to McDonnell (Office of Student Activities -1st floor LaFortune) by Monday, Sept. 

14. Forms are available at the SA office and require a description of the club and Its membership. Each organization must also submit a proposed annual budget. 
If funds arc requested on an an­nual basis, a statement detailing of the previous year's financial situa­tion must be filed In the Office of Student Activities during April or May prior to the beginning of the next school year. 
This information is considered by the seven-member committee which McDonnell chairs. Commit· tee members include: Sr. Judith (Volunteer Services Director), the Student Body President, Vice­President, and Treasurer. In addi­tion, the SBP and the Student Activities Director are each per­mitted to appoint a student to serve 

on the committee. The goal of the .committee is to determine all ap­
propriations by October 1. 
If a group wishes to appeal th committee's decision, It must sub­mit its request In writing to the Director ofStudent Activities within one week of the announcement of appropriations or Oct. 1 (whichever occurs later). Appeals are heard on an in-dividual basis, and the com mince informs the group ofthc date~ and time of Its appeal. Deadlines for the second semester arc Friday, )a­nary 29, 1982 for appropriation~! and Friday, February 12, 198lfor ap· peals. 

Administration affirms stand on air controllers 
WASHINGTON (AP) The Reagan administration and or­ganized labor widened their dispute yesterday over whether the ad­ministration is pursuing policies harmful to America's workers, with Labor Secretary Raymond Donovan vowing "no amnesty" for striking air controllers. 
In nationally televised Interviews timed to coincide with Labor Day, Donovan, AFL-CIO President Lane Kirkland and Kenneth Blaylock, head of a large federal employees union, argued about Reagan's dis­missal of controllers who began an illegal strike a month ago. 
Donovan rasscrted the ad­
ministration's position that "there 
will be no amnesty" for the nearly 
12,000 fired controllers. 
"I believe the most important 
message that could be given on 
Labor Day Is that this Is a nation of 
laws and that we cannot pick and 
choose those we will keep and those 
we will get rid of," he said on ABC's 
"Issues and Answers." 

Kirkland and Blaylock, president ofthe American Federation ofLabor, maintained in separate interviews that Reagan should rehire the con· trollers. They contended the na­tion's flight control system is suffering In their absence. 
"He's established the fact that he'~ hard-ftstd," Kirkland said ofReagan. "What remains to be established Is where's the rest of him, where's the 
heart and where's the understanding of these people's problems that will make it possible to have a decent resolution of this problem that will ... restore these quaillied people back to their jobs." 
Interviewed on the CBS program, "Face the Nation," Kirkland said the air control system will "limp along, sharply curtailed, at great expense to the public, and I think the cir­cumstances cry for a decent resolu­tion" ofthc dispute. 

On NBC's "Meet the Press," Blaylock suggested that the ousted controllers might have a better chance of getting their jobs back af. ter the government has concluded its efforts to strip the Professional Air Traffic Controllers Organization ofIts right to bargain for workers. 
But, Blaylock also said, "the con­
trollers have had some very serious 
problems at the work site for years. 
...Unless mechanisms are developed 
to address the problems that public 
workers have, there will be strikes." 
Donovan asserted that Reagan's 
firm response to the air controllers 
'ltrlke should signal state and local 
government officials to hold the line 
against illegal strikes. 

"There Is not an ounce ofgloating In this administration," over the firing of the controllers, he said, ad­ding: "I would say, yes, the message Is to follow the lead of the president in protecting the Constitution. 

·)j 
~ 
.JJ 
.l~ I 




~~~Sct=J=~==i=~~~~S========~x=====================M=o=nd=a=y,=S=ep=t=em=b=e=r=7=,1=9=8=l==p=a=ge~2 
by The Observer and The Associated Press 

The Los Angeles district attorney's office has drop~d drug chuges against rock singers Sylvester Stewart and George Clm­ton. Tbe Los Angeles Times reported yesterday that authorities dis­covered there was not enough of the suspicious substance that was found in their car to conduct tests. Stewart, known as Sly ofthe group Sly and the Family Stone, and Clinton, leader of Parliament· Funkadelic, were arrested Aug. 20 for investigation of possessing cocaine and paraphernalia. They were released on bail the same day.
-M . . 
.. _· 

When Israeli Prime Minister Menachem Begin ;n~et~ .· President Reagan this week, Israelis are hoping to see a spark of chemistry between two hard-line leaders who prefer action to words. Begin arrived Sunday in New York for a 10-day visit that includes meetings with Reagan on Wednesday and Thursday, talks with Jewish leaders and a visit with former President Jimmy Carter in Plains, Ga Begin's attache case is stuffed with problems. Chief among them are the U.S. sale of spy planes to Saudi Arabia, an alleged Palestinian arms buildup in southern Lebanon and the U.S. role in talks on Palestinian self-rule in Israeli-occupied territory. But sources who discussed the 
trip with Begin say his most crucial task in Washington is to get on well with the U.S. president and set a cordial personal tone for the next 3 1/2 years.-& 
The Reagan administrationand organized labor 

ridened their dispute yesterday over whether the administration is pursuing policies harmful to America's workers, with Labor Secretary Raymond Donovan vowing "no amnesty" for striking air controllers. In nationally televised interviews timed to coincide with Labor Day, Donovan, AFL·CIO President Lane Kirkland and Kenneth Blaylock, head of a large federal employees union, argued about Reagan's dis· missal ofcontrollers who began an illegal strike a month ago. Donovan rasserted the administration's position that "there will be no amnesty" for the nearly 12,000 fired controllers. Kirkland and Blaylock, presi­dent of the American Federation of Government Employees, main­tained in separate interviews that Reagan should rehire the controllers. They contended the nation's flight control system is suffering in their absence. -& 
The independent union Solidarity pledged yes­terday to keep talking with Poland's Communist leaders "as the only way ofavoiding a tragic confrontation." The remarks in a policy state­ment by the union's national secretary, Andrzej Ceinski, coincided with maneuvers by an estimated 100,000 Soviet troops in the western part of the Soviet Union bordering Poland. State Department officials said Friday in Washington the maneuvers may be intended to in­timidate Solidarity, the only independent labor movement in the Soviet bloc. "It's no exaggeration to call (the events ofthe past year) a revolution, and its main force is Solidarity," Celinski told the union's ftrst congress since its founding in August 1980. -AP 
Entrenched outside lima, Peru, in dank tent camps are 420 Cuban refugees who call themselves "los olvidados," the for· gotten ones. They are the remainder ofa group that in 1980 occupied the Peruvian Embassy in Havana, an event which led to the eventual exodus of nearly 125,000 Cubans to the United States in a massive boatlift. The Cubans stranded on the outskirts ofthis city of 5 million people for 15 months say the United States reneged on a promise to take them in too. The Cuban refugees left in Tupac Amaru park say U.S. officials promised it would be only a 30-day stopover in Lima before a reunion with their friends and families in South Florida In Washing­ton, the U.S. State Department said the Cubans left in Peru hav~ little chance ofgetting to America, which has virtually end Cuban immigra­tions following negative public opinion caused by the boatlift. -AP 

Monsignorjohnj. Egan, director of the University of Notre Dame's Center for Pastoral and Social Ministry, was honored last week by the Industrial Areas Foundation with a scholarship in his name. The presentation was made at the foundation's annual con­ference at the Dunrovin Retreat Center, Marine-on-the-St. Croix, Minn. The FatherJack Egan Scholarship is to be awarded annually by the foundation "in the spirit ofFather Jack Egan for his untiring efforts and commitment to the work ofthe Foundation and its founder, Saul 
D. Alinsky." Edward T. Chambers, executive director of the founda­tion, said, "Father Egan's ministry to the Church, to Saul Alinsky and to the Industrial Areas Foundation is immense. He ranks in the front lines ofthe twentieth century greats. Few Americans have lived at the cen­ter of their commitments like Egan has. The nation, the Church, but especially the poor blacks, Hispanics and whites, honor and revere him." The Father Jack Egan Scholarship is designed to meet the tuition needs of potential organizers and leaders for national training programs which the Industrial Areas Foundation conducts. There 
were three scholarship recipients this year. -Tbe Observer 
Becoming partly sunny and warm. Highs in the upper 70s. A 40 percent chance of rain tonight. Lows in the low 60s. Mostly cloudy with a chance for thundershowers tomorrow. Highs in the mid 70s. 

In search ofdialogue 

As weeks go, last week was a particularly violent one around the world. In the space of seven days, bombs exploded, bullets were ftred, and chaos ensued as groups made their statements for all to see. To refresh your memory, here's a briefsummary ofrecent events: 
•Vienna, 
Austria: Two died and twenty were injured as terrorists stormed a synagogue with guns blazing, while a bar mitzvah was in progress. It was later determined that one ofthe terrorists was a member ofa guerilla unit ofthe PLO. 

•Tehran, 
Iran: Seven died and thirteen were wounded, among them President Mohammed Ali Rajai and Prime Minister Javad Bahonar, as an explosion ripped through the prime ministry. 

• 
Ramstein Air Base, West Germany: Eighteen Americans and two Germans were injured when a bomb went off in the joint US/NATO air command headquarters. 

•lima, 
Peru: Bombs were set off at the. U.S. Embassy, the residence of U.S. Ambassador Edwin Corr, and the local offices ofCoca Cola. 

•Beirut, 
Lebanon: Unidentilied gunmen opened fire on French Ambassador Louis Delamare as he was being driven back to his residence. Delamare died shortly thereafter from gunshot t ; 




wounds to the head, chest, disagree. While murders and and abdomen. maimings were taking place 
It's hard to imagine that all all over the world last week, of this happened in the a group of Polish workers space of one week. Looking were preparing to celebrate back over this list of current the flrst anniversary of events, I've begun to won­Solidarity, a union that has der what possible motives effected change without could justify any of these violence. 
acts. Perhaps, as in the case Last week Solidarity 
oflran, violence is viewed as leader Lech Wale sa spoke to 
a means of change. Former the Polish people over na­
President Abolhassan Bani­tional television regarding 
Sadr, speaking from his the impasse that had been 
Parisian sanctuary, noted reached in Solidarity's 
that as a result of the bom­negotiations with the 
bing, "victory is near." government for control of 
It may lbe that these the media. He didn't tell 
crimes wer(: committed in people to bomb their local 
an effort to bring attention Communist headquarters, 
to one's group or cause. For example, in the attack on the Viennese:: synagogue, one of the terrorists shouted "PLO! PLO!", as he wielded a machine gun and hand grenades. 
Finally, it could be that violence has simply become a way of life in some parts of the world. One Iranian offi­cial declared that, in spite of the loss of their national leaders, the Islamic revolution would not be slowed down "by thj~se unfortunate events, which we are al­ways ready for." 
Looking past justifications, or the lack thereo( I'm inclined to question the courage needed to carry out these acthrities. How brave does one have to be to throw hand grenades at a group ofpeople who are par­ticipating in a religious ceremony? How much guts does it take to set off a bomb at an embassy? What is courageous about gunning down an unsuspecting diplomat? Take the weapons away from those who were responsbile for these acts, and then ask if they are wil­ling to further their cause. 
r-The_Obs.erxer_ 



r·JtJNIORSlr·· 
Design Edit01r..................... Mike & Monica Design Assistants ............... Doris Costello 

~Anyone interested in applying to Typesetter ........................... Raymond Inglin News Editor .............................. lynne Daley 
~be chairman of Junior Parents 
Copy Edftor................. Mary Fran CaJiahan Steve Navarre 


~Weekend or chairman of the
Sports Copy liditor........ Mark Hannuksela Typist .......................................... Vicki Regan 


Senior Class Trip can pick up an
Systems Cont1"'I ................... Bruce Oakley ND Day Editor ......................... David Grote 

~E TO n.E <GI!lr-JD<STON~ application at the 
SMC Day Editor ....................... Cece Baliles Ad Desfgn ..................................... Fran & Co. Pbotograpber .......................... Susan Quinn 


Student Activities 
Guest Appearances ...... Deirdre, Kathy M. The Devi~ pass! ng by, noted: 


Office, LaFortune, 
"Even as In hell doth they suller." 

: ~. from Mon., Sept. 7 ~-............................~~--rt:~~,. ~P.!.~. J.1...... 
News Editor 

Inside Monday 

True men of courage will stand up for what they believe ln. What separates these men from terrorists is that they will use non-violent methods to get their point across, as was the case with Martin Luther King, Jr. He once wrote that "courage breeds creative self­alfrrmation; cowardice produces destructive self­abegnatlon." 
King's "creative self-alfrrmation" took the form of peaceful rallies and marches. While tangible changes didn't result overnight, at least people were made aware of the situation, and that is the first step in the search for a solution. Dr. King must have been aware of this when he wrote that "there is nothing more power­ful to dramatize a social evil than the tramp, tramp of marching feet." 
But this is 1981, not the mid-60s, right? Some say that such beliefs are outdated. I 

and he didn't encourage anyone to take to to the streets with guns. Walesa simply said "ifthere are problems, we should talk." 
Solidarity opened their frrst national congress on Saturday. There Wale sa remarked that "we deliberate in a spirit of truth as free and reasonable men." Labor reforms have been a result ofthis dialogue. It's not hard to imagine how much would have been accomplished if, instead ofstrikes, violence had been used. 
Walesa and his followers are demonstrating a courage that is rare these days. It takes a lot to stand up for your beliefs without a gun to serve as your "inspiration." Perhaps this is the key to change in our world. Looking back, little is different as a result of the violence of last week. Recalling Dr. King's words,· "It (violence) leaves society in monologue rather than dialogue." Walesa has shown us that dialogue isn't such a bad alternative. We could use a lot more ofit. 

~ditorial Board and Department Managers 
Box Q. Notre Dame, IN 46556 The Observer is an independent newspaper published bv the ~rudenr" ol dw University of Notre Dame duLac and Sainr Mary's College. Ir does nor neceo.,-.arrh  Edltor·ln-Cblef........................."........ : .......]ohn McGrath Managing Editor ......................................Tom Jackman Executive News Editor .............................. Lynne Daley News Edltor.............................................Tim Verce'tlotti  SMC Executive Editor ..................... Mary Agnes Carey SMC News Editor ...................... ......... Kathy Domanico Pboto Editor..................................................John Macor  
reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news 1s repmred  News Editor .......................................................Kelli Flint  Business Manager ......... ......................... Rich Coppola  
as accurately and as objectively as possible. Editorials represent the opinion ,,fa  Senior Copy Editor ........................ Mary Fran Callahan  Contro/ler....................................................... .)oe Mulflur  
majority of the Editorial Board. Commenraries, opinions, and letters are rhe views  Sports Editor ...................................... : .. Michael Ortman  Advertising Manager...................................... Mack Ellis  
of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the commun1rv. and  Features Editor ....................................Anthony Walton  Production Manager..............................Michael Monk  
the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through leners, is encouraged.  Circulation Manager ........................Tom MacLennan  



The Observer Monday, September 7, 1981 page 3 




Constitutional Studies 
Gaffney directs la-w center 
ByJIM McCLURE 
News Staff 
Edward 1\t. GaffneyJr. is the new Din·ctor of the Center for Constitu­tional Studic:s at Notre Dame Law School. Gaffney, who had served as Associate Director under Philip R. Mo01s sinn: I977, assumed his m•w post on July I, 198 I. 
The Centt·r for Constitutional Studies was founded in 1977 to analyze and rcsarch legal and public polit-y issues confronting independ­ent institutions of higher learning. The l't•nter's work frequently deals with the unique and sometimes con­trovt·rsial problems confronting churL·h-rclatcd colleges and univer­sitlt•s 
Professor Gaffney, who did his un­dergraduate work at St. Patrick's Collt·ge in Menlo Park,Callf, is a graduate of the Catholic University of America Law School where he earm:d aJ.D. and a M.A. in History. In addition, Gaffney merited a LL.M. de· gree from Harvard Law St·hool and the S.T.L degree from Gregorian University in Rome. Gaffney has taught at Boston University Law School as wdl as teaching a course 
on law and religion at Boston Col­
lege. 
A member of the Washington, 
D.C. Bar, Gaff'ney did legal work with a public interest law firm which represented municipal utilities. Prior to his arrival at Notre Dame, he served for two years as an adviser on the policy staff ofAttorney Generals Edward Levi and Griffin Bell. 
Wht·n questioned as to what changes may occur in the center due to his new position, Gaffney responded that "we probably will step up more appearances before courts as a friend of the court." 
The Center for Constitutional Studies occasionally takes part in selected litigation and gives tes­timony at administrative proceed­ings and legislative deliberations at both the state and federal level. 
The center has filed amicus brlefs(legal briefs submitted as a friend of the court) in such cases as EEOC v. Mississippi College, a case which according to a center brochure focused on "the statutory and constitutional authority of the federal government to regulate the employment practices of a Southern Baptist Collt'ge" and also in Chess v. Widmar, a case which dealt with a Lutheran pastor who was denied access to minister on a public uni­versity's campus. 
In another typical case, the center staff assisted counsel representing Grove City College, a college with strong Presbyterian ties, in litigation with the federal government which. concerned the "relation between student aid and federal regulation." 
Professor Gatfney has testified before the Senate Foreign Relations Committee and most recently before the Senate Finance Commit­tee where he testified regarding tui­tion tax credit legislation. Gaffney is quick to point out,however, that "we aren't lobbyists" and that the main purpose of the center is to "basically serve as a research cen­ter." 
The Center for Constitutional Studies also publishes research on major policy themes. Two such publications are Church and 

Campus: Legal Issues in Religiously 
Affiliated  Higher  Education  
(University  of  Notre  Dame  
Press,1979)  and  The  Federal  
Government  and  the  Campus:  

Federal Regulation of Religiously Affiliated Higher Education (Notre 
Dame Press, 1980). 
Gaffney was asked by the Ob­server to comment on the recent case where Oral Roberts University l.aw School faced a possible loss of accreditation by the American Bar Association since the school had a policy of only admitting those stu­dents who professed a personal committment to Christianity. 
Gaffney stated that "an independ­ent school ought to be able to set its own standards," and pointed out that legislating acceptance to church-related schools could make matters worse. "You can't tell a synagogue not to hire a rabbi," he said. 
He went on to say that "ofcourse race or sex discrimination has no place in an ABA-afiliated institu­tion." 
The center has a national advisory board which determines policy for the organization.The board is chaired by University Provost 
Timothy O'Meara. Board member come from many different faiths and denominations , and, as Gaffney noted, "this Is a fairly unique situa­tion. Not many organizations have a Baptist minister talking to a Jewish rabbi who's working with a Catholic priest." Gaffney added that "This is a national center represented by all faiths. We attempt to reflect that in our briefs and testimony." 

Supreme Court nomineeSandra Day O'Connor arrives at tbe Ket~­nedy Omter in Washington. ( AP Photo) 
r l mcndllY night filnl series I 
' 

Monday, September 7 
Citizen Kane Directed by Orson Welles, 1941 
(119 min.) Little can be added to the thousands of words already spent on this genuine classic of film art. With Welles, Joseph Cotten, and all the talent of the Mercury Players. Greg Toland significantly extended the range of cinematic language In this film. 
THE SNITE MUSEUM Of ART 7:30pm adrni~sion $1.00 sponsored by ND -SMC COMMUNICATION &THEATRE 


Council for Retarded wins service a"'ard 
By KATHLEEN SHANNON 
News Staff 
Logan Center awarded the 
ND/SMC Council for the Retarded 
tht• distinguished Lee Slaughter 
Memorial Award for active par­

ticipation in volunteer programs last year. 
The award is annually presented to a group or individual who is com­mitted to helping physically or mentally-disabled persons. 
l.ogan Center, an institution located on the edge of the NO campus for mentally retarded children and adults, depends greatly on volunteer help. Parents of men­tally retarded children founded the center in 1968. 
''The rewarding feeling is really worth the effort." 
N(}/SMC students participate in a variety of voluntet·r programs at IA1gan -the main ont· being Satur· day "Rec." Tht· weekly recreational period offt·rs t'Vt'C)'thing from arts and crafts to games to music, and student~ conduu c:ach activity. 
Students also take Logan patients bowling every Friday afternoon (leaving the drclc: at ~: 1..5 ); bowling Marts Sept. I R l.ogan Center also sponsors pt·riodic dances -the first being Friday, Sept. 25 at 7 p.m. 
Volunteer Services offers an as­sortment of programs which en­compass everyting from hospitals to with the Center find it "rewarding" and "beneficial." 
Volunteer Mike Martinelli said "The rewarding feeling is really worth the effort. One does much for the kids with whatever limited potentials. One doesn't need any ex­perience to become involved in helping others." 
Students interested in volunteer­
ing their time can contact Volunteer 
Services ( l.5 floor LaFortune) to 
find something which matches their 
interests. 

Merit scholarships up to $20,000 
Notre Dame 1981 
FOOTBALL SCHEDULE 
SEP. 12 SEP. 19 SEP. 26 OCT. 3 OCT. 10 OCT. 24 LOUISIANA STATE MICHIGAN at ANN ARBOR PURDUE at W. LAFAYETTE MICHIGAN STATE FLORIDA STATE SOUTHERN CAL 



C PROVIDES 
OCT. 31 NOV. 7 NOV. 14 NOV.21 NOV. 28 NAVY 
GEORGIA TECH AIR FORCE at COLO. SPRINGS PENN STATE at UNIV. PARK MIAMI at THE ORANGE BOWL 
tutoring programs. Sr. Judith Ann Beattie. VS dirt'ctor, said she believes all who become involved 

Graduate from Ngtre Darne as an Arm~ Officer 

--------------~------------------------------------­
The Observer 

Mo~day, Septem~er 7, 1981-page 4 
• • • Q&A 

hall to help alleviate some of the into alternate meal plans tor on­
continuedfrom page I 
problems. But I think the long lines campus students who don't want 21 
will continue as long ;c, everyone meals every week.
Q: Will tbere be an attempt to eats at the same umc::. Now. if we Q: Will of(campus crime con­
challenge tbe admtnistation's policy on kegs? express this concern to the ad­tinue tu plague ,,..utre Dame. and 
A: The issue of kegs ha.!> always ministration and complain about th<: what willyouradmmtstation ao to been a pivot between the students long lines at the dining hall, they're fight if? 
and adminisl ration. Over the years it not going to go build a new dining has been thl· classic argument. I 'hall What they will do is tell us A· Because many of til<: off­think it has gotten tr> the pomt now when to eat, and I think th<: students campus students live in South 
will be more opposed to that than Bend's rough neighborhoods. I think
where the administration automati­cally turns off anything they hear waiting in line. So students arc going crime will continue to plague them 
about kegs just for the fact that 
to have to realize that if th<:v don't It's scary out there. especially be­they've heard it so many times. Even 
want to wait in line, they're going to cause most of these students aren't if we com<~ up with a feasible have w come a little earlier or a little use to th<: poor surroundmg~>. I later. Tara (Kenney, student body know this fear t1rst-hand, as I myself 
proposal--on•e in which we show the 
vice-president) has been looking in­live off-campus. I think all we can do
administration that there will not be alcohol abus•e and that the students to the policy of meal plans and into is ask for the cooperation of the 
South Bend Police Department. I

are responsible enough to handle the establishment of a soup and also plan to invite some security offi­them--the administration will still sandwich bar. This would be open' 
stand against kegs. They always almost like continental breakfast is cials to speak to the students during have, and they always will. open after breakfast. That would lunchtime at Lafortune. The only 
Q: What .are your expectations help alleviate the problems of over­way to fight this crime is to take 
about the success of the Chataqua crowded lunches. She's also looking precautions against it. coffeehouse in LaFortune? 
A: 1think that with this guarantee from the University, I'm sure this
Construction is still underway on the new Saint Mary's library. 
place will make a go of it this year. 
IRA hunger strikers quit
(photo by Susan Quinn) · 
We're bringing in quality entertain­ment. In conjunction with the Nazz, I think we can make Lafortune the 
fasting on request ofkin
• • .Placement 
viable student center that we've:: 
been looking for. I think we can 
without food and Patrick

BELFAST, Northern Ireland (AP)
continuedfrom page 1 Director of Placement Robert make it a place where people will McGeown's strike was ended Aug.
-The mother of jailed IrishWillemin stressed the importance of 
walk through on Saturday nights to 
20 after 42 days. Another hungerRepublican Army hunger strikerby those who do not meet de-these meetings to graduating stu­

either go downstair:s and listen to 
striker, Brendan McLaughlin, gave

gree or citizenship specifications of dents' career planning and place-Lawrence McKeown removed him
music or come upstairs and li.sten to 
up his fast May 28after 14 days when

the interviewing company or by St. ment processes. Willemin from the fast yesterday and an IRA
music. Also, the middle floor will 
doctors said he would soon die ifhissplinter group said it would reduce

Mary's students. pointed out the advantages of each 
become a sort of crossroads of the 
bleeding ulcer was not treated.

This week the Placement office is system but declined to comment on its participation in ~he deadly
University, where people know they 
Shortly after McKeown's fast was

sponsoring Placement Nights for which was preferable. "With the old · protest.
will see _their friends. Because of its 
ended, the Irish National UberationMcKeown is the second hungereach the the Univer t sity's colleges. At system, interviews were on the open 

central location between the quads, 
Army, an IRA splinter group, said it striker in three days to be taken off

that time more information about market where those students with 
it is the perfect location or such a 
would not replace Michael Devine,the fast by his family and the fifth to

this new procedure, as well as inter-the greatest interest went to the 
crossroads. 
its hunger striker who died Aug. ~0.

leave the strike since it began March
view techniques and employment greatest inconvenience to get the in-
Q: Wttb the increase tn students, 
However, the lNLA announce­1 at the Maze prison outside Belfast.

outlook will be provided. terviews they wanted. 
especial(v on the North Quad, will 
ment said the IRA "can be sure ofourOfficials said McKeown had lapsed

any changes be instituted in dintng 
full militant support for the cam­into a coma yesterday fn his 70th day

ballprocedures? 
paign." One INLA member, Uam

without food when his mother aut­

··················~
N.D. MARTIAL ARTS + 
A: I know the University was 
McCluskey, is among the five cur­horized medical attention for him 

trying to persuade some of the hunger and
Patrick Quinn's fast was ended bv rent strikers the or­
ASSOCIATION +
dorms to eat at a particular dining 
his family on July 31 after 46 day~ ganization gave no indication he would end his fast.
ORGANIZATIONAL MEETING : 

The group said it could no longer afford to contribute one lNLA man 
i 
to the hunger strike for every three IRA fasters because the British government is "far more intran­sigent than we had first expected." 
Sept. 7 7:00 p.m. 2nd floor of "Rock" + 
Questions call 1702 

For the benefH of Channel 34 


MARK RUSSELL 
"The funniest man In-Washington ­oulslde Congress." 
...  ...  
*  *  . . . '-.,;--"", ~  ...  •  
*  ~  *  

~ 

*
~ 
j \'--.,
~ 

~ 
) 
~ ~ 

* 
{!
)t 

tr {{
/
1:!' 
n­

8:30 pm Friday, September 11 O'Laughlin Auditorium, Sf. Mary's College 
Reserved Seals at $12.50. $6.00 and $5.00 
Tickets Available at Olaughlin Auditorium. Century Center and Truth Reader Service Phone Orders at (219) 674-5961 
The appearance of Mark RuiSell Is being underwritten by the St. Joseph Valley lank of Elkhart, the South lend Tribune and kings Cellar. 
:-································
• 4111~11()~ :
• (lui>§ Clllcl Ul~<llllze~tl()ll§ e I• Adh'lty ft!t! hJ11~I11§ : 
: Clubs and organizations wishing to apply for : e Activity Fee Funding • e• must pick up forms in Student Activities Offic~. ••
•e Deadline for submitting completed applications is •: : Tuesday September 15, 5:00 P· M · e 
................................... 
FOOTBALL CONCESSION STANDS 
All football concession stand 
lottery winners must pick up packets Student Activities Ofice by Monday, Se ternher 7 or forfeit our stand! 
"We have only 28 protesting prisoners," it said, "and if we con­tinue to maintain this ratio all our 
prisoners will be dead within six 
months." 
The IRA is seeking to end British 
rule in predominantly Protestant 
Northern Ireland and unite the 
province with the Irish Republic 
which is overwhelmingly Roman 
Catholic. The INLA split from the 
IRA in 1970 and at that time was 
considered to be more militant and 
farther to the left in its political 


SportscB=r=i=e:.t!:s=====F==========M=o=n=da=y=,S:::ep=t=em:::::b=e=r=7,=1=98=l==p=ag=e~5bv Tht Uhlt'rt't•r .tnd Tht• .4.Hiit'lll/f'd }'rt'llGerry Faust will be the featured speaker at an orientation 

Scoreboard 
meeting for all prospective freshmen student managers to be held t<miftht at 8:30p.m. in the ACC Auditorium. This meeting is forfresh­
Yellterdey'a Aeaulla San Doego 0 0 000 0 0 Boston 6, Seattle t Oakland 0 000 7 9 
men only. Call the student managers' office ifyou have any questions. 
BASEBALL 
Baltomore 8, Oakland 4 Seattle 0 000 21 27 
Cleveland 2, Calfornoa 0 Toronto 3, Chocago 2 Salurdey'a AeiiUII Second Helf Molwaukee 8. Monnesota 7 ( t 01 TampaBay2t. Monnesotat3 NATIONAL LEAGUE New York 6, Kansas Crty 1 Yallt-y'a Reaulla 
-The Obsen.,er 

Ee81 Oetro•t o4. 1exas 3 Denver 9 Oakland 7 w L Pel. GB Toclloy'aGamea Kansas Crty 37. Pottsburgh 33
Anyone interested in playmg hockey for coach Lefty 
~mith tlu~ wimer should attend a meetmg at -1:30 p.m. today in tht· 
Sf Louos t5 9 625 Baltomore 29. New England 28 
Montreal t3 12 .520 25 Molwaukee fLerch 4·71 at New York (Guodrv 9-3) Houston 27, Los Angeles 20 New York 13 13 500 3 Seattle (Beattoe 1-1) at Chocaqo (Dotson 8·51 Pholaclelphoa 24 N Y Goanos t 0 Chocag<J 12 15 444 45 Toronto t6erengueo 2·71 at Monnesota (D. Jackson Dallas26, Wasnong1on 10 x-Pholaclelphod 10 t6 38~ ~ 2·21 Atlanta 27. New Orloans 0 P•ttsburgt• 10 18 357 'fexas (Honevcun 9·31 at Oakland tNorns 9·61 Buffalo 3t. N Y Jet• 0 
ACC Auditortum -The Observer 
The Martial Arts A~:.octatton will hold an or~o:amzational 
w... CluvPiand (Waots 6-7) alllaltomore (Palmer 4·7), n Detroot 24, San Francosco t7 mcettn!( totll~ht at 7 p.m. on the second tloor ot tht· Rockn~: Memorial. Houston 1A 9 .667 Boston (Oteda 4-to at Uetroot !Morros 11-4), n Moamo 20, St Louos 7 
lor hoth old ami m·w rm:rnbt·r~. Call Bub Rtckert in Howard Hall or 
I 
San Franc•scc.:• 16 10 61! t 5 Lalfornoa (Won 5·71 at Kansas Coty (M Jones 3·1), n Green Bay 16, Chocago 9 i x·Los Angeles 16 11 !>9 I 2 Conconnato 27. Seattle 21 
)<~vtcr Marune.t at 1702 lor mor inlormauon -Tbe Obsen1er 
Atlanta t4 12 .b:ltl 3!; 
Tonlghl'a Gllflte Cmc1nnat1 t3 13 500 45 San D1ego at Cleveland San Doego 286 10.5 Thurad8y'a Game 
8 ~0 


FOOTBALL 
Pottsburgh at Moamo, nk-hrst halt champton 

Sunday'aG8maa(S.pt.13) Ye81erdey'a Reault• 
Anyone who missed last week'!> or~anizational 
Atlanta at Green Bay

mt·cting for swimmers but is still interested in being a member of the 
Buffalo at BaltomoreHouston 4, MontreaiJ (t2) NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE 

tm·n·~ or wonwn·s u·ams may call Coach Stark at b22l to stgn up. 
Chocago at San Francosco Cmcmnali 5, Pholadelphoa 4 NATIONAL CONFERENCE Cinconnato at N Y. Jets

Atlanta 5 New York 2 E... 
Los Angeoes 5. St Louos 0 w L Pel. PF PA 
The (Jbsert'(.,. 

Denver at Seattle PottsDurgh 9. San Doego 5 
DetrOtl at San Doego

Dallas 0 1.000 26 tO San Francosco 3, Cnocago 0 Pholadelphoa 1 0 t.OOO 24 10 Houston at Cleveland Toclloy'a a.mea St LOUIS 0 000 7 20 
Los Angeles at New Orleans

Women who want to play football for the Off-Campus 
New England at Philadelphia

Chocago (Bird 3·2) at St Louia (Sorensen 7·5) 
New York 0 000 10 24 N Y. Goants at W ashongton 
squad should call t 28H-9342 or 7521 to sign up. -Tbe Observer 
New York (Scott 4·6 and Falcone 2·3) at Pinsburgh 
Washongton 0 ,1 .000 10 26 (Long 0-t and Jones 2·2), n St. Louos at Dallas
C.ntr.. San Doego (Welsh 5·6) at Conconnato (Seaver 10·2), n Tampa Bay at Kansas Crty 
Tampa Bay 0 1.000 21 t3 Montreal (Bahnsen 2·11 at Pholadelphoa (Davos Q-3), n 
Monday' a Game (Sept. 14)

Detrool 1 0 1.000 24 17 Oakland at Monnesota, nHouston (Knepper 7·3) at Atlanta (Boggs 3-t 0), n Green Bay 1 0 1.000 16 9 
San Francosco (Whotson 5·6) at Los Angeles 
The Novice Crew Team will hold its first workout 
Chocago 0 .000 9 16
tomorrow at 4:30 p.m. Members should meet In the C line of the 
(Valenzuela 11·4), n Mmnesota 0 .000 t3 2t 
North Dining HalL -The Observer 
w... 
Atlanta 1 0 1.000 27 0 Los Angeles 0 1 .000 20 27 AMERICAN LEAGUE San FranciSCO 0 .000 17 24 E... New Orleans 0 .000 0 27
Registration begins todayfor the Student Ticket 
Notre D.,.. e, Cllk:8110 Circle o w L Pel. GB Singlea
Lottery for the Michigan and Purdue football games. Students may 
Detroit 18 .687 AMEIUCAN CONF£RENCE
9 No. 1 -Lisa LaFrana (NO) def. Carla Trudo 6-0, 
register from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. today through Wednesday at the Stu­
Molwaukee 17 11 .607 1.5 Eellt 6·2.
,.,

Baltimore 15 11 .577 2.5 w L Pel. PA No. 2 -Pam Foshene (NO) def. Doane Zalatoris x-New York 15 12 .556 3 Buffalo 0 1 000 31 0 
dent Union Record Store/Ticket Office. Students must present their 
6·3,6-0 

own ID when registering. -The Obseroer 
Boston 14 12 .538 3.5 Moami 0 1.000 20 7 
No.3-Peggy Walsh (NO) def. Wendy Cyarnecki Cleveland 15 13 .538 3.5 Baltomore 1 0 1.000 29 28 6·4,6·0 Toronto t3 t2 .520 4 New England .() 000 28 29 
No. 4 -Camille Cooper (NO) def Kathy Delpena w... New York 0 1 .000 0 31 
6·0,6·2. KansasCrty t3 t4 .48t C.ntr.. No. 5 -Carol Shukla (NO) def Karen Bola 6·0, 
x·Oakland 12 13 .480 Houston 1 0 1.000 27 20 6·2. 
Caltforma 11 t4 440 t Ctnc.nnalt t 0 1000 27 21 
The Boxing Club will hold an Informational meeting 
No.8-Laura Lee (NO) def Doane Lenongea 6·0, 

for novices today at 4 p.m. in the boxing room in the ACC. Practice 
Texas tt 14 440 1 Cleveland 0 0 .000 0 0 
6-2 

Chocago tt t5 423 1.5 Pottsburgh 0 000 33 37 
Seattle 10 17 .370 3 w... 
will hegin Tuesday at the same time and place. The novice tournament 
will he held before October break, so don't delay. -The Observer 
Monnesota 10 16 .357 3.5 Kansas City I 0 1.000 37 33 
See BOARD, page 6

x·first half champion Denver 0 1.000 9 7 


.\II • L•s~dH•rl .HI~ ITlll'il llP rt'CP.ryefl t1't' 4 ..1.0 p m lwrl rldv~;. ur1rll to fh~ 
,.,..,,,,. 111 ,,.,,.~,,~h 111'' o~d '" 111r. .fhP. Observer olltce wdl dCt:l!PI cl.I~SIIted!lo 
MundI'{ ''"IIII!Jh Fnd.t\ 10 no .I m 10 ~ 00 p'" All claSSif~t•ds must hl'





Classifieds 
I'''' "" d ,., llr•t n• po•rson rH lhro11(Jt1 ltl~ lllttll 
..__._,_____..... ...
-.~~---~.-=-""~'"-~­

-~-~··---·-=====~:;:;;::;;;:;;;,:===========;::===========~
Desperately need 3 GAs lor PENN Need 3 LSU GA, top$$ Call Tom t764 For sale. t complete book of studenlloOI· CARROLL STREET MAY HAVE NONEED LSU TIX YOUR Pnce CALL Greg 
STATE. Wolhng to pay megabucks! Call ball to•. best offer 6363. 
QUALMS, BUT IT HAS OTHER1692 Pany t321 
FOR SALE 1 STUDENT SEASON NIGHTIIME EXCITEMENT
~OTICES 
FOOTBALL TIX CALL DAR 7160 BEST Aelaltve Nun Loves Faust, Needs ltckelsHELP! NEED 2 GA'S FOR MICHGAN Need LSU GA's PAY MUCH$$ Call 283· OFFER! to LSU and FSU. Call Dan Smrth 234· 2 SPRINGSTEEN TIX For 9/IO·BESTSTATE OR FLORIDA STATE CALL 
8598 8121 
OFFER Cal14t·4562MORRISSEY LOAN FUND 
80t9 Student loans $20·$200 t per cent on1er· 
FOR SALE 2 SPRINGSTEEN fiX, est Due on one month One dBy waol 
ITCHING FOR LSU TICKS BUT CHICAGO SEP 6. BEST OFFER CALL WANTED...FOUR GAS FOR THE LSU Congratulatoons Moke and Shawn! SERIOUSLY NEED MANY GA'S CALL GAME ARE FOR CORPORATE
Open every class day 11.30·12 .30 on 2773 TIX LaFortune Basement [ FOR SALCJ t022 BRASS WHO ARE WILLING TO PAY HELEN F SATURDAY WAS THE MOST NEED 3 TICKETS TO LSU. GA OR STU· TOP DOLLAR PLEASE CALL 234·04t8 MEMORABLE AND PASSIONATE EVE· HIDE NEEDED TO HOUSTON lEX FOR 
help! helpl need 4 LSU lockets woll pay DENT, CALL SUE: AT 4-t-5773 NING OF MY LIFE. 
7t Mercury Wagon, good condition, $400 OCTOBER BREAK WILL SHARE anythongll please help helpl help! neea 4call Rob at 234·6298 
USUAL CALL CHRIS AT •1676 LSU GA lockets Please helpll call Pat FOR SALE· One complete student loot· NEED FOOTBALL TIX? I DOl I NEED Hey Gregala, 
1400 ball locket ...D!lst seats possible Best USC AND PENN STATE fiX AND AM Glad you're back. I hope the Espanol offer at4604 WILLING TO BUY. SELL OR TRADE and Psych tests went well. I mossed you ALL YOU MCAT CANDIDA TESIII STAN· 
LEY KAPLAN BOOKS FOR SALE· StOO 

WANTED.Two GA lockets ·for LSU Woll ANY OTHER TIX TO GET THEM WILL 
VTC
CALL BETH AT 4236 

pay good$$. Call Jef1..6862. MSU TICKETS NEEDED. (LOTS) DEAL IN CASH ALSO CALL LARRY
\LOST/FOUND] 
PREFERABLY GA. JULIE 289·6731 277·3306 Jo Baby Congrads on the engagementNEED TO REVIEW FOR THE MCAT? 
DESPERATELY NEED USC TIX FOR The abuse os tust begonnongSTANLEY KAPLAN REVIEW BOOKS 
IRATE ALUMNUSIII CALL CHRIS at N D ALUMNUS DESIRES SEX, BUT NEED. 2 or more GA LSU tickets! Call
FOR SALE ONLY $100 FOR THE To the bum on Prof Gasko s 1TI3 Markel· WILL SETILE FOR 8 GA LSU GAME TIX 
x1676 WILL PAY GOOD BUCKS. Laura 5272 Hey Jo F Reoner.
WHOLE SET CALL BETH AT 4236. mg class who found my wallet after class & 4 GA MICH. TIX. CALL COLLECT AF· 
How could a such a wold woman btle the last Thursday and osn·t man enough to 
HAVE 4 ADJACENT GA TIX FOR LSU TEA 5 (4L9) 666·4LL8 SEX AND DRUGS are out of the ques· dust so soon? The btg attaor must be
MCAT REVIEW BOOKS FOR SALE gova ot back -I am atoll offerong you a AAMC, BARRON'S AND ONE OTHER 
WILL TRADE FOR 4 GA TIX FOR FSU. lion, but I wolf pay or trade ANYTHING durong sp<ong break, on the beach. com· 
larg<~ reward for rt• return but I guess by BOOK FOR SALE. BEST OFFER. CALL CALL 6451 DAYS 232·354t CASH$$$ for paors of GA TIX to any and else lor ONE USC GA locket. Call Anne plate wrth kegs and drugs. Lots of drugs now you va clecoded to keep the money EVENINGS. all games. Please call John at269·8117. Maroa, 1291. And the abuse goes on ...and on ... and'lln 
BETHAT4236 and the wallet HOWEVER. I laol to see how you can gal any benelot !rom havong 
WANTED. 2 OR MORE GA LSU TIX. NEED FSU ticketslll Call8093 Help I Need up to 4 GA MICHIGAN ST to• 
WILL PAY I CALL ROB t628 so excoted relatives can see NO tn actoon Karen Moedlar: Thanks so much lor themy dnver's license and mthlary 10, too I 
FOR RENT 

NEED 4 NAVY GA's. Call Jon 8892 Call Pat6601 roses What a roomoelll at least these two otems Just slink onto 
hope you have halt ahear1 and can return I REALLY NEED ONLY 1 GA TICKET 
FURNISHED 1 AND 3 BEDROOM FOR THE LSU GAME. PLEASE JIM 3587 MUST BUY FOUR MSU TIX FOR FAMI· -ATIENTION LADIE$-­them uncler the door of Am 210, or at APARTMENTS. 5 BEDROOM HOUSE. L Y VISITINGII PLEASE CALL CAT, 1273 Mike "HOOKSETT'' llreen would like least tusl drop them somewhere on 234·2626. to publk:ly ennounce hla ,_ Morrossey late soma noght and shove 

PERSONAL~]
Need 6 GA and t Stud. TIX for LSU Call DESPERATELY NEED LSU GA TlX

campus where some HONEST person telephone number-can hnd them and return them Student housing. Unlversoty rated supe· CHIP3123 $$$$$CALL JOHN 1764 HELPI Need up to II 1k:ketelor any ND 11180 PLEASE gove me a bt'eak geme. Woll pay good p<lce. Call Mary at So pick up the phone •nd give him •
nor. Complete lac!lltoes Clean & safe. Call 29t·1405atterSept.t. Mega BUCKS for 2 LSUIGA's Call7745 

DESPERATELY NEED FLA ST. TICK­4788 SMC. thrill; dlaiiiMIO. Found on Fosher party room Saturday ETS CALL STEVE x6655 nognt, one paor of gorls shoes Call 308t ST. JOSEPH'S MEDICAL CENTER IS A Karen and Eileen, •
Efficoency apartments--100.00/mo. Near WILL TRADE USC TICKET FOR LSU OR Notre Dame On bus line Call 255-6505 PAY WHAT YOU ASK CALL JENNY 4t-Need 2 or more GA's for LSU game Call PROGRESSIVE 337-BED ACUTE CARE How 'bout yourselves? How come you LOST GOLD RALEIGH 5·SPEED or 259·4629 8391 INSTITUTION. DESIRABLE JOB OP· haven't dropped us a lone yet? We're
4507 

PORTUNlTIES ARE AVAILABLE. doong well, but we'd be bener of you wrote RENT TO OWN A COLOR TV OR Desperatly need 5FLA State to• GA or BICYCLE ANY INFO . PLEASE CON· 
FOR SALE: 4 LSU GA'S (2 PAIR) BEST PLEASE CONTACT MIKE FERRY, Schmolzoe and the new Penguin STEREO CALL SUN APPLIANCE 29t· Student Jenny-41·4507 OFFER. CALL: CRIS8360 OR TOM 8387 EMPLOYMENT SPECIALIST AT ?37­FOUND Solver Pen durong last sprong·s 
TACT JENNIFER MAGUIRE 6239 
5112 7665 OR PATRICIA SHEYKA, NURSE Campus Monestrone The way to salve· lonals. Call8791 and descrobe RECRUITER A 237·7275 Iton.
need 1 LSU student locket call Dan at House lor rent Walk to campus For onto 3597 need 1 GA or t student locket lor LSU call Jom at 3234 game call Dan at 287·9572 BEWARE:· Use your noodles '-folio.. the lead of 
woll trade 2 navy GAs lor t Fla St. GA call RAMON DUKE IS WATCHING YOU Campus Monestronel .
~ANTED j 
Need one male housemate Fof'lnlorma· Colleen x34 77 NEED ONE LSU TIXI DIANE 277-8803 AND HE DOESN'T LIKE WHAT HE Scoop, what do you tovo now? Some stal· 
~~---------
loon call 232-6344 early or late SEES WHICH ISN'T MUCH ters want to hear from you! I NEED TWO GA TIX FOR USCIIII WILL USC locket wanted, woll pay mucho bucks HELP. I ONLY NEED ONE LSU STU PAY MEGABUCKS!" PLEASE CALL UGLY DUCKLING RENT·A·CAR From call Donna at 6771 TICKET WILL PAY$$$. THANKS CALL TAPS. KEGS, ICE, TUBS. QUARTS, And then there are others. BETH AT 283 4236 $8 95 a day and 8 cents a mole Phone JIM, 8t65 CANS, CUPS, BLONDES, BRUNETTES, 
259·64591or reservatoons 1 OLSU locket wanted. Money os no object RED-HEADS: CALL TOBY AT 272· The restless shade of Moo•a Control call Donna at677t NEED 2·4 GA TIX FOR ALL HOME t653 FREE DELIVERY!! wanders the kongdom ol noghls, for some· FOOTBALL GAMES. CALL ART AT 1593 lh.ng IS roHen 1n the land The usurpers TheObaerver(USPS 598920) ts 
LSU locket wanted Woll pay mega-bucks. LABORERS UNITE Ill now control the realm, and hts sptrtt


LjJCKE~ 

Call Donna at 677t Celebrate your holiday, Monday, Sept. 7. knows no peace Bnware the wrath ol the and on home football Saturdays, 
pubhshed Monday through Froday 
DESPERATELY NEED TWO GA TICK· at the Saont Maoy·~ BLOCK PARTY. restless noghtwalker Need LSU Student & GA·s. Call Jack Penn St. lOcket wanted please call Donna ET~ FOR LSU WILL PAY YOUR PRICE LeMans Courtyard. 2· 7.00 p m Hosstory
except durong exam and vacatoon 
tt73 at677.t CALL PAT 6635 Volleyball and Relay Races from 2-4.00 Carven as ot old, 
peroods The Obaerver IS pubhshed 
and Musoc by WRBR from 4· 7.00 These words I read on stone.
Need 2 'GA LSU lockets Call Shorley al

by the students of Notre Dame and 
Wanted..2 GA LSU llckets..Call 233· NEED PENN STATE TICKETS CALL No admiSSIOn charge Here toes Mvose Control.
t7t5 before 5 weekdays 8764 '

Sarnt Marys College Sub!l(:ropi!Ons 
7905 Conon candy, popcorn. watermelon. & He loved and doed alone may be purchased for $25 per year 
lemonade fix 3/St .00. All are welcome-­
I NEED TWO GA TIX FOR USC AND ($15 per semester) by wrotong The 
Need 4 GA lox lor Penn State Call Dom, 

Need Flonda St '"kels Call Steve,272· bnng your rollerskates, skate boards, tns­Sorrow slowly turned to dread Obeerver. P 0 Bo• 0. Notre 
WILL PAY ANYTHING Ill CALL BETH AT 

3075 2925 bees. etc. As I looked upon the name, 4238!! 
Overthrow the class" struggle Ill For I knew even as I read. 
Dame, lndrana 46556 
Need 3 or 4 GA lockets tor FSU game Call Woll trade 2 LSU GAs for 2 MSU GAs Call I moght end the sameNeed 2 or 4 GA tox tor LSU, MSU, or FSU
The Obaerver 1s a member of 
collect219·362·4292 evenongs Lewos, 1234, from Sam to 5pm Bog bucks Call Stan. 3008 

The A..ochned Preae. All 
'. ·~' ........ O·C MONDAY NIGHT FOOTBALL at And so. the weary shade of Moose reproductoon rtghts are reserved 
need 2·4 G A L.S U lockets call collect

Need 2 sludent to• for LSU Call John Need 2 student LSU's. Chns 3364 IRISH COUNTRY tonight. Watch the Control wanders on 3527 Chargers trash the Browns. 
(318) 478-3502· (busoness) or (3t6) 477· 9540 home ask lor Joe Fournet· I NEED lSU GA JOE 8810 

The Observer Monday, September 7, 1981-page 6 
In second year 


Volleyballers look to improve 
"We have a lot oftalent on the squad, and it is in a widespread range with little differentiation." 
With the season opener only two weeks away, the team is finalizing their game strategies. While hoping for opening victories over both Val­paraiso and Purdue-Calumet, the Irish are more anxious for their first home series slated for September 30 in the ACC pit. 
. Board 
L·onttnuedfrom page 5 
Doubi.. No. 1 -Pam Fishene and Ttna Stephan (NO) del. Diane Zalaloris and Kathy Delpena 7-6. 6-1. No. 2 -Laura Lee and Linda Hoyer (NO) del Carla Trudo and Wendy Cyarnecki 6-4. 6-1. No.3-Usa Gleason and Cathy Schnell (NO) del. Diane Leningea and JoAnne Jagtelo 6-0. 6-0. 
Saint Mwy•a College 8, Chlc11g0 Circle 0 
Single a No. 1 -Debbte Laverie (SMC) del. Carla Trudo 6-2.6·2. No. 2 ~ Mary Ann Heckman (SMC) del. Diane Zalatoris 6-0. 6-3. No. 3 -Maureen Fitzgerald (SMC) del. Wendy Cyarnecki 6-3. 6-1. No. 4-Ann Huber(SMC) del. Kathy Delpena6-1. 6·2. 
No.5 -Ann Dodd (SMC) del. Karen Baca 6-3. 6-3. 
No.8-Carmel Maenza (SMC) del. Diane Lenin­gea 6-2, 6-3. 
Doublea 
No. 1 -Fitzgerald and Laverie (SMC) def. Del­pena and Zalatoris 6-0. 6-1. No. 2 -Young and Berg (SMC) del. Trudo and Cyarnecki 6-7.6-0.6-0. No. 3 -Roesler and Pellar (SMC) def. Baca and Leninger 3-6, 6-0. 6-2. 
• • • Line 
continuedfrom page'S 
Lastly comes defensive end, and Meyers once again has a wealth of talent at that position. "Both }on Autry and Tony Belden are consis­tent performers who can be both physical and agile. We are very pleased with their progress, and }on especially has played well recently." 
All in all, one has to get the im­pression that Meyers' unit is suffi­ciently laden with the talent needed to get the job done in fine fashion. Despite some u t nproven performers, most show the intensity and intel­ligence to learn the skills and play the game in the traditional Notre Dame manner, an undeniably dismal prospect for the opposition. 
IRISH ITEMS -Freshman center Tom Doerger underwent surgery Saturday and is lost for the season. The Cincinnati native went down with a knee injury in Friday's scrimmage ... Tailback Phil Carter was held out of the practice session to nurse a hamstring pull ... Fresh­men Mark Bavaro (TE Danvers, Mass.) and Chris Smith (TB Cincin· 
nati, Ohio) have impressed the Irish coaching staff with their perfor· mances in the last few practices ... Sophomore John Mosley (Omaha, Ncb.) has been moved to tailback in lieu of the knee injury which befell Tim Tripp last week . . . Friday's season-opening pep rally has been moved outside in anticipation of a large crowd inflicted with Faust Fever ... Instead of the Stepan Cen­ter, the normal site, the rally will 
Notte DGme Science 
QuGttetly OtganlzationaI meeting 
Tues., Sept. 8 7p.m. 341 NleuwiGnd Anyone lntetested Is 
encoutGged to attend_. 

jimmy Connors barely survived yesterday's U.S. Open match against AndrPs Gomez. For more results, see page 8. (APPhoto) 
& F F 
•
' 
Succeed 



inbusiness. 
ult's a lot easier with a Texas Instruments calculator designed to solve business problems." 
Touch a few special keys on these Texas Instruments calculators, the TI Business Analyst-II"'and The MBA'': and lengthy time-value-of-money problems suddenly aren't lengthy anymore. You can automati­cally calculate profit margjns, forecast 
' 
r 

By MARGARET GREENE 
Sports Writer 
After a disappointing initiation at the varsity level last season, Notre Dame women's volleyball coach Sandy Vanslager has had a year to work out a new winning formula. Combining her own expertise, demanding conditioning drills, and 
12 cohesive members, the 1981 squad is pUitting its talents on the line less than two weeks from now. 
Though last season saw a dis­
appointing tally ofthree wins against 
19losses, Vanslager is quick to point 
out the improvements. 
"The maturity of the team has greatly increased along with the in­tense enthusiasm the girl.o; have both for their sport and their school," Vanslager says. "This positive at­titude has set us on to the right track." 
Another bright spot in the season outlook is the addition of Notre Dame volleyball's first scholarship athletes. Freshmen Mary )o Hensler ( Cincinatti, Ohio) and Josie Mater­nowski (South Bend, Ind.), along with junior Jackie Pagley (Miami, Fla.) bring to the squad superb ath­letic ability and have been awarded grants-in-aid. 
All of this has led many to believe that for the first time, Notre Dame can be recognized as a volleyball school. This factor will greatly in­fluence athletes looking for a school with both strong academics and a good volleyball program. 
Vanslager is a firm believer in dis­ciplined conditioning methods. Each practice begins with a warm­up jog quickly followed by jump training and exercises before the volleyball is even touched. 
According to· Vanslagcr, this in­
tense training program has created 
much of the balance seen in the 
offense-defense aspect of the game. 
sales and earnings and perform statistics. 
And problems with repetitive calculations are a piece of cake for the MBA, because it's programmable. 
These calculators mean business, and what they give you is time-time to grasp underlying business concepts, while they handle the num­ber crunching. To make it even easier, each calculator comes with a book written especially for it, which shows you how to make use of the calculator's full potential. 
The Business Analyst-II and MBA business calculators from Texas Instruments. Tw~o ways to run a successful business rna-lj 
jor, without running yourself ragged. TEXAS INSTRUMENTS 
I NCOR PO RAT ED 
~.~61~~;::;.~\ 
~:~\~~'t:\ 
t.;;JWW\.:::.lU·.. 
Li:::JUU&&U' 
~uuua· ~:.::JIIillUUU t:~UUtriaSl 

f" 1981 T~xa.~ ln::.trunwnt-5 Inrorporate-d 
• 
& F ~ 
The Observer==c~~o-= 
~c:}c:)l~~===========================M~o=nd=a=y='=Se=p=te=m==be=r=7='=1=9=8=1===pa=g=e~7 

Doonesbury 


Simon 

W#AT ll? YOU 5/JY TO TilE. /'fli,Y WHO INVENT£/) PHEI./..:s 


The Daily,. Crossword 
1981 by Chicago Tribune-N.Y. News Synd. Inc. All Rights Reserved 

Molarity 
TheN· D· Pre-Law Society Presents; 
Ptof. Tom fficuullo: 
A Wotkshop On The Ptofesslona 
In The Lib. Aud. Sept. 7, 8., 9 
7:00-9:00 


Garry Trudeau 
)eb Cashin 
WIIAT ~ GOJt1Jr, CtJ FI/TII£1? rot?EZ IS ~ 
ACrllllLLY Tl/lKW6
TO EMIL!I FffR (J(fT.' 



Posters! 


Campus 
•2·7 
p.m. -party, lemans block party, Iemans courtyard.. 

•6:30 
p.m. -dance classes, holy cross (nd) party room, sponsored by abiogenesis dance collective. 

•7 
p.m. -meeting, world hunger coalition, library lounge. 

•7·9 
p.m. -workshop on the professional state· ment, prof thomas marullo, library auditorium. 


Television 

Tonight 
".I THINK TilER£ AR£ HAW PfOI't.£ CfoJ CAHPV5 L.IKI£ ~/£ WHO HAVE NEVER 7l>IJOIE/? CVI?SEI..VE'5 BELDW tvR WAIST AIJD F~L 7J.//S .. .91VI 16 A)D/ 
6UI/AISLE' Poff 4 CHR/5T7A.~ 
' 

7:00p.m. 
8:00p.m. 
8:30p.m. 9:00p.m. 10:00 p.m. 
10:30 p.m. 
11:00 p.m. 
11:30 p.m. 
16 22 28 34 
-'6 16 
22 28 
46 22 46 22 46 16 22 -'6 16 22 34 28 46 16 28 
Uulc House on the Prairie WKRP in Cincinnati That's Incredible Great Performances: "Tannheuscr from Bayreuth" Believers Voice ofVIctory 
Monday Night at the Movies: "The Place to Be" Pan I M·A·S.H ABC's Monday Night Football: San Diego at Cleveland Lester Sumrall Teaching Series House C:Uls Blackwood Brothers Lou Grant Today with Lester Sumrall NewsCentcr 16 22 Eyewitness News 
Jimmy Swaggan Weekly TQnight Show Quincy & Harry 0 Sec What I Say Newswatch 28 Praise the Lord Tomorrow Coast to Coast ABC News Nightllnc 
Thousands of large and small posters 
to ·choose from. I Cover your bare~ walls or peeling plaster. 
RIVER CITY RECORDS 
. I 
50970 US 31 North 277-4242 Open until 1 0 every ni ht 
ROCCOS  
men's and women's hairstyling at comfortable prices 531 N. Michigan 233-4957  


Pre-Law Society hears experts on admissions 
By ROBERT M. MAROVICH 
News Staff 
At the Pre-Law society's first meeting, an es· timated 100 members gathered In the Library lasl week to hear campus experts speak on about get· ting Into law school. 
Dean Robert Waddock, Dean David Unk of the 
Notre Dame Law School, and Professor Thomas 
Marullo all stressed the need for realistic ap· 
proaches to law schools. 
"The study of law Is time consuming; make sure 
It Is your profession before selecting a law school," 
Unksald. 
According to Vice-President Nat Walsh, the Pre· Law society has arranged a Mini-Caravan on Oc· tober 14 from 4:30 to 11:00 p.m. The Caravan will feature several law schools who will be available to provide Information for prospective students. Other law schools will be visiting Notre Dame at times to be announced. 
Walsh said that other functions on the fall calen· der include a writing workshop given by Professor Marullo on September 7,8,and 9 at the library auditorium. 
Other officers for the 1981·82 term are Eileen Wirley, president, Marie Spicuzza, secretary, John Senica, newsletter editor, and Katie Whelahan, SMC representative. 
' 
... 
.... 
·ACROSS 1 Opera by Delibes 6 Ten: pref. 
10 Caesar's 
unlucky day 14 Over 15 Middle East 
airline 16 Bottle part 17 Part of 
a rial 18 Gambling city 19 Father of 
Ahab 20 Resin 21 North 
African dish 23 Dehydrate 

26 252wine gallons 27 Buckeye 
state 28 Calumniate 31· Meadows 35 "To-is 
human" 36 Divine revelation 37 Single·dose containers 
39 Authorof "The Silver Chalice" 
40 Rhinos' cousins 41 Package letters 42 "Desire Un· der the-" 
43 Makethin 44 Celebes ox 46 Buchwald 47 "The-
Abroad" 52 Discharge 55 Brook fish 56 Court 
procedure 57 Singles 59 Fine fur 60 Fired 61 Actor 
Robert De­62 Useful 63 Dreadful 64 Utters 65 Tough 
question 
DOWN 12 Beige 13 Slaloms 22 Moves 24 Inferior 25 Something 
put on 28 Primitive religion 29 Flam's 
companion 30 Itches 31 Cowardly 
Lion 
32 Blood condition: suff. 
33 Assessor 34 Supplant 38 Attics 39 Hartford's 
state: abbr. 
1 Put aboard 2 Spry 3 "Citizen" 
and others 4 Dolphins' 
home 5 Fermi 6 "-Rosen· 
kavalier" 
7 Participant in one col· lege 
8 Pirogue 9 Baseball name 
10 Inject a serum 11 Fiendish 
41 Food 
factory 45 Misbehaves 47 Ancient 
region 48 Muse of 
poetry 49 "Ora pro-" 50 Sheer silk 51 Pilot 52 Modified 
organism 53 Kind of skirt 54 Electrified particles 58 Call for help 
Monday, September 7, 1981 -page 8 

On defense 
Experience keys front line 
a pass in a pre-season workout, bas been named the starting quarterback for Saturday's home opener against LSU. Klel nosed out senior Tim Koegel in get­ting the assignment. See story below. 
.... 
Kielgets starting nod for opener againstLSU 
By KELLY SULLIVAN 
Sports Writer 
Coach Gerry Faust and offensive coordinator Torn Uchtenberg have begun preparations for the LSU game by naming sophomore Blair Kiel the staning quarterback for 
Saturday's contest. 
Kiel, a starter in Notre Dame's last 9 games during the 1980 season, has battled senior Tim Koegel for the number one nod since last spring, but his performance during Friday's closed scrimmage earned hlm the call. Kiel was 1 0-for-13 passing in ad­dition to putting on a fine running 
demonstration. 
"We feel both of the quarterbacks 
are pretty equal, but we had to make 
a decision," explained Faust. "We 
didn't want to wait. Blair has been 
corning on a little sharper the past 
few days, and he had a better 
scrimmage Friday, so we have to go 
with him right now." 
Koegel turned in a solid perfor­
mance as well, going 8-for-15 pas­
sing. "Tim will play Saturday, and 
he'll play with the first unit," said 
Faust. "We feel we can win with any one of our quanerbacks. But we wanted.to name a starter now to get some continuity going this 'Yeek." 
Intense competition has also been waged in the backfield this fall, and it looks as if Larry Moriarity will open up at number one fullback, although Faust said a final decision won't be made until about Wednesday. 
"You can wait until midweekwith linemen or running backs, but not with quarterbacks -you've got to know early." 
On defense, Faust anticipates alternating two separate front lines. "We'd like to play a lot ofthe kids, as long as we've got the depth. We may even run two backfields with the number one line. We'll just have to wait and see." 

By MICHAEL OLENIK 
Sports Writer 
upon initial inspection, the average Notre Dame follower would assume that the primary question mark on the 198 I squad would be the ability and depth ot the detenstve line. 
After all, the loss of Scott Zettek 
andJohn Hankerd would be difficult 
for any teat;n to handle, especially if 
their backups are relatively inex­
perienced. Yet the question doesn't 
seem so obvious when the situation 
is discussed with defensive line 
coach Bill Meyers. In fact, the third 
year Irish <:oach feels comfonable 
enough with his herd of linemen to 
have eight ofthem on the frrst team. 
"As of right now, there are no first 
or second team linemen through 
our frrst eight players," says Meyers. 
"As long as we can stay in good 
health, we'lll use two units on the 
defensive line. We feel very com­
fonable with the progress we've 
made so far and we expect things to 
run real well." 
Meyers' expectations are based 
on the much improved play of the 
line thus far this fall, and on the fact 
that he has some very good athletes 
waiting to prove themselves in the 
pits. 
With tht~ existence of ·some 
seasoned and talented interior 
linemen, much emphasis has been 
placed on tutoring a new defensive 
end and establishing a new position 
referred to as contain tackle. The 
man who has handled the position 
best in practice has been senior Pat 
Kramer. The 6-4, 250-pound native 
of Colton, Wash., has performed in 
outstanding fashion in a postion that 
seems to suit him well. 
"I really enjoy playing the posi­
tion because it is a true defensive 
tackle position," offers Kramer. 
"Actually, it is somewhat similar to 
our alignment last year. so there 
wasn't any problem with adjust­
ment. We feel that we can play well 
against any type ofoffensive system, 
including an option offense such as 
the veer," a reference to the offense 
used by this week's.opponent, LSU. 
Although the Tigers put on a dis­
appointing show in a 24-7 loss to 
Alabama Saturday night, Kramer 
sees no reason whatsoever for using 
the game as a valuable judge. 
"They arc: a much more dan­
gerous team than they looked 
against Alabama," says Kramer. 
"They have the potential to be a very 
good team, and thats where our 
depth will help us. The people 
playing with me and behind me are 
all good, so there should be no 
problem with getting worn down." 
Alongside Kramer in the present 
alignment is Kevin Griffith, a fallen warrior from last year who has found himselfback in the running for some extensive playing time. Meyers says that Griffith "is the guy who has the capability of making the big play be­cause he's agile, strong and intel­ligent" 
Despite practicing mainly at end thi~ till, Griffith has been swttdted to contain tackle Jue to an mjury problem wtth Mike Uebenstein and freshman Mike Golic. 
At nose tackle are provt~n perfor­mers Joe Gramke and Bob Clasby, both of whom do extemely well at containing and offsetting the oppos­ing center. 
"My job basically is to make the 
center ineffective and  to  free  the  
linebackers  to  make  the  tackles,"  
says Gramke.  

As Meyers sees it, Gramke seems to perform his task well. 
"Joe is a great team leader who works very hard every day. An added plus is that he is a very smart player, which is an immeasurable asser.'' 
Meyers also had some pleasant words about Clasby, a junior. "Bob is big, strong and tough, which is very important for the posi­
tion he plays. He jams up the middle well and will definitely help us a lot this year." 
The third tackle position in this revamped defens1ve line is the flip tackle, presently occupied by Torn Bock and Tim Marshall. Although Bock has set:n limited playmg time for the irish. Meyers s~e~ lurn as a b1g contributing torce in-the Notre Dame defensive game plan. 
"Torn Bock is a tough, hardnosed player who is extremely physical and well suited for the flip tackle position. He also is very willing to work hard at what he does, and that impresses me." 
Marshall needs no major intro­duction, since he opened many eyes last season as a heralded freshman. This year should be no different, as he expects to contribute through­out the year. "Although I'm still learning some new and different techniques from coach Meyers," l'vlarshall admits. "I think I'll be readv to play once the season comes around. I just hope I can help ;u much as possible." 
See LINE, page 6 


Connors survivesscare; Borg beats. Carter 
NEW YORK (AP) -"I dodged a to capture his first U.S. Open. bullet," Jimmy Connors said after 
Caner was never in the match as barely beating back an upset bid by 
the nearly toll stadium of 20,146 Andres Gomttz of Ecuador Sunday 
watched the "Swedish Machine" and advancing to the founh round of carve up his opponent. the U.S. Open tennis championships. Two seeded players fell Sunday: "I played great in some spots," Mike Cahill eliminated 12th-seeded 
Connors said "He played great Johann Krick ofSouth Africa 4-6 6-2 throughom. I don't think you've 6-I, 6-4. while 1 7-year-old Bar;bar~ seen as many forehands like that Gerkin a high school senior from 
from anyone. He goes all the way in­Thousand Oaks, Calif., upset the to the stands to hit a forehand." 
women's No.7 seed, Wendv 
The battle wasn't decided until Turnbull ofAustralia, 7-5, 6-3. · Connors frred only his second ace of the match to win a fifth-set 
''J played great in 
tiebreaker 7-5. 
On the winning point, Connors some spots ... swung his serve wide to Gomez' forehand, and the gritty left-bander he played greatjust watched it as it hit on the line. It ended a dramatic 4-hour, 23-minute throughout. '' battle that saw both players repeatedly question line calls. In other third-round matches, 
"I thought maybe the serve was eighth-seeded Elliot Teltscher out," Gomez said. "I was so nervous defeated Vijay Amritraj of India 6-2, that maybe I wanted them all to be 6-4, 6-0; No. 9 Roscoe Tannerousted out." Chris Mayotte 7-6, 6-1, 6-I and No. 
But when it was over, Connors 16 Brian Gottfried eliminated Tim had won the bitterly contested Mayotte 6-2,6-3, 6-7, 7-6. battle 6-7, 6-3, 6-1, 4-6, 7-6, while In the women's singles, founh­
Gomez had won respect. seeded Manina Navratilova crushed 
The No.2 seed, Sweden's Bjorn JoAnne Russell6-2, 6-1, while No. 11 Borg, swept past David Carter of Barbara Potter downed lindsay Australia 6-2, 6-2, 6-2 In his attempt Morse 4-6, 6-2, 7-5. 


6-2, 230, So. 6-3, 240, Sr. 6-4,245, Sr. 6-4; 250, Sr. LeftEnd Right End Right Tackle Right End No.38 No. 56 No.92 !'io. 97 FortWayne, Ind. Kettering, Ohio Cinclnnad, Ohio Colton, Wash. 



