.This Weekend -page 8 


VOL. XV, NO. 84 an indt>pendent student newspaper serving notre dame and saint mary's 
Reagan cuts back urban spending 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Big city 
mayors said President. Rt•agan told 
them yestt:rday that his drivt: to 
prune ft:deral spending mt:ans sharp 
cuts in urban aid and major changes 
in a program that provides mont:y 
for cities hard hit by recession. 
"Tht:st: people art: st:rious about cutting and wt: have to be serious about reducing our t:xpectations from govt:rnment and acn·pting and absorbing our share ofthe cuts," said Indianapolis Mayor William II. Bud· nut Ill, prt:sident of the National League ofCities. 
Mayor Edward Ko<:h of New York said Reagan promised, however, that "those who arc truly in need will not he asked to sulfer, hut all others hopdully will sulfer equally.". 
lludnut and others said they were alarmed by plan~ for changes in the urban development action grant program begun by the Carter ad­ministration to help rt·vitalize distresst·d urban areas. 
Reagan also met with hlack con­grt·~smt·n who art· worrkd that his budget nils will hurt the poor. 
.. Blat·k people arc dispropor­tionatdy reprt·st·nted in the ranks of tho~t· hardest hit by intlation," said lit·p. Walter Fauntroy. D-D.C.. chair­man of the Congrt•ssional Black Caucus. ··we told the president that Wt' art· ~otravely eoncernt·d that policit·:o. dt·vised to reign in inflation do not disproportionatdy burden tlw poor. tht· dtkrly and moderate income people." 
Such a change "would he a 
tkvastating dfl'ct on us." said Mayor 
Tom Bradley of Los Angeles. llud-
WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 4, 1981 
nut, who like Reagan is a Rt:publican, said a block-grant system would not work and would gut the program. 
Thirteen mayors met over lunch with Rt:agan and his economic ad· visers, · as well as Samuel Pierce, secretary of housing and urban development. 
Reagan will make a televised speech tomorrow to spell out a general view of the nation's economic problems and his proposed solutions. He plans to sub· mit a package of tax cuts and spend­ing reductions to Congress on Feb. 
18. 
The president also will visit Capitol Hill today to talk with mem· hers ofCongress. White House Press Secretary James S. Brady called the session "the resurrection of the practice of having offin· hours on tht• hill." 
See CUTS, page4 
A unifiedJerusalem 
NO profreflects on Committee 
By MIKE O'BRIEN 
StaffReporter 

. Rctlecti~g on the recently concludedJerusalem Committee meeting held ~t Notrt· Dame, government Prof. Alan Dowty expressed optimism concern­tng an eventual solution to Middle East problems anti described last week's mt·cting as a contributing mechanism to Arab-Israeli peace. . 
Dowty indicated that his optimism is based on continuing trends of "mutual at·ccptancc and compromise" in the area. He called these trends "more positive in perspective" than in past years. 
U.S. industrialist predicts South African revolution 
.JOllANNESBliRG, South Africa ( AP) -Industrialist Harry Oppen­heimer. chairman of the giant Anglo American Corp., has warned of pos­sible revolution in South Africa in t1ve years unless blacks get major t·ont·essions. 
Whites must 
((adapt or die" 
(>ppenheimer's remarks, delivered in the 72-ycar-old in· dustrialist's typical low-key style at a luncheon with foreign journalists on Monday, were in line with a long­held political philosophy he terms "radical conservatism." 
But with a national election 
scheduled for April 29, Oppcn· 
heimer's warning was considered 
the dearest so far to Prime Minister 
P.W. Botha that the new t1ve-ycar mandate he sees could be the most important in South African history. 
As t'hairman of Anglo American, Oppenheimer's remarks carry some weight. 
The South African-based multina­tional corporation produces some 40 percent of the country's gold, about a third of its coal and a like amount of its uranium. 
Oppenheimer told the journalists that Botha and previous National party govt·rnmt·nts, following the of-tidal policy of apartheid or racial segregation, have squandered too much time in trying to reach an ac­commodation between South Africa's 4. 'i million whites and 20 million blacks. 
He said that during his two years as prime minister, Botha had raised the hopes ofblacks with promises of a new deal, at the same time telling whites they must "adapt or die." 
Most South African blacks view the upcoming election as irrelevant because they don't have the right to vote. They tend to see Botha's reforms as window-dressing for the outside world and say they won't be satist1ed until the entire apartheid system is dismantled. 
Oppenheimer said time is running out and unless "substantive 
changes"  arc  made  by  the  mid·  
1980s,  South  Africa  could  face  
violent revolution.  

"We've got to see whether this rhetoric will be turned into action," Oppenheimer said. 
Oppenheimer has long been an advocate ofpeaceful reform ofSouth Africa's racial segregation system for sound economic reasons. 
South Africa is currently riding the crest of an unprecedented economic boom led by such com· panics as Anglo American. Total gold production for the country as a whole· was worth about $1 3.'i bil­lion in 1980. 


In building up long-term interna­tional markets for its strategic minerals and industrial equipment, South Africa has placed great store in the reliability of its deliveries -and a stable political system. 
Failure to deal with black grievances, industrialists argue, could set off a chain of disruptive labor troubles among the blacks, who perform the vast majority of menial jobs in the South African 
economy. 
The professor called the Jerusalem Committee's Notre Dame Statement 
important because it highlighted the positive aspects of"a working city" and 
identit1cd many intellectual leaders with the framework ofcontinued Israeli 
sovereignty over Jerusalem. Dowty added that this framework is basically 
the "only viable solution" to the city's problems. 
The Committee also received praise from Dowty for giving publicity to the everyday problem ofthe uniquely international city. lie calledJerusalem a successful "laboratory for Arab-Jewish cooperation." 
Dowty characterized Jerusalem Mayor Teddy Kollck as born to he the city's leader. He said that the mayor is a talented administrator and mediator who enjoys the widespread support ofJews and Arabs alike. 
However, Dowty cautioned that the political issues of.Jerusalem cannot be solved outside ofan overall Arab-Israeli peace settlement. 
The prime issue in any overall settlement is, according to Dowty, the establishment of "some form of political self-determination for Palestinians in the West Bank and Gaza." 
Dowty stressed that much more negotiation is necessary to resolve this issue, which is further complicated by Israeli security interests, the wishes of 

the inhabitants and of Jordan, which is tied both economically and geographically to the Palestinian people. 
Dowty said he believed the chiefimpasse in current negotiations to be the lack of a community-supported Palestinian leadership which is willing to accept co-existence with Israel. The Palestine Liberation Organization ( PLO) has publicly committed itself to the destruction of theJewish state. 
See COMMITTEE, page4 

On bribery charges 
Israeli Minister pleads innocent 
JERUSALEM (AP) -Religious Af­fairs Minister Aharon Abu-Hatzeira pleaded innocent to bribery charges yesterday at the opening of a trial that could become a political cam­paign issue in Israel's June election. 
It was the first time in Israel's .32· year history that a Cabinet minister had gone on trial. Coming at the out· set of what'promises to be a bitterly fought election campaign, the trial could further damage Prime Minis· tcr Menachcm Begin's coalition government. 
Abu-Hatzeira belongs to the Na­tional Religious Party, a small but powerful party that has been the key partner in almosl every coalition government to rule Israel. It is likely to continue to play that role after the election but there is no telling how seriously the Abu-Hatzeira trial may weaken the party's electoral appeal. 
Outside the Jerusalem District Court building Abu-Hatzeira's sup· porters, many from the Moroccan Jewish community in which he is a leading t1gure, demonstrated noisily, chanting his name. 
Meanwhile, the Law Committee 
of Parliament set June 30 as the date 
for national elections, a week earlier 
than the government had originally 
proposed. The change, a com· promise between Begin and the op­position Labor Party, which wanted an earlier date, wa'l expected to be ratified this week or next by Parlia­ment. 
The governmt•nt ha'l been eager to get Abu-Hatzcira's trial t1nished as fast as possible, partly to spare him a lengthy ordeal and partly to prevent the scandal from turning into a major campaign issue. 
Abu-Hatzeira also served notice that he wanted a quick trial. At the opening session his lawyer quickly blocked an attempt by the attorney 
See MINISTER, page4 


.. 

News Brie/§ 
----~-----­
Wednesday, February 4, 1981 -page 2 
c===~======~============================~ 
by The Observer and The Associated Press 
A study group suggests that Harvard University set up an agency to work to improve racial relations at the school. The group urged President Derek C. Bok to establish a "Harvard Foundation" because "relations among the races have reached a critical juncture in ... both the nation and the college." The group's report said a founda­tion could also provide a forum "for the work ... ofThird World artists, poets, musicians and the like." -AP 
Sweden called on the Reagan administration yesterday to drop objections to the SALT II arms limitation treaty with the Soviet Union, saying the alternative would be a "futile", stepped-up arms race between the superpowers. Without mentioning the United States by name, Swedish delegate Inga Thorsson told the 40-nation Geneva dis­armament conference, opening a 12-week round oftalks, that "strong voices" favored shelving eight years of arms limitation talks "in anot­her vain attempt at achieving that ... impossible nuclear superiority." She said the U.S. and Soviet governments should "find a way to finally complete the laboriously negotiated SALT II agreement ..." -AP 
Premier Arnaldo Forlani of Italy told the Cham­ber of Deputies yesterday that evidence gathered by Italy's secret services raised the possibility that Italian terrorist groups "may be fed or exploited by other countries." But he said the Italian government lacked "absolute certainty" that any particular foreign government was linked to terrorist groups, including the Red Brigades. -AP 
Michael McAliskey, the husband of Belfast's Roman Catholic civil rights advocate Bernadette Devlin McAliskey, moved to a secret hideaway yesterday after being released from a hospital for treatment of wounds suffered in an assassination attempt against the couple, friends reported. McAliskey moved to the secret address with the couple's three children, who were not injured when gunmen burst into their rural home west of Belfast on Jan. 16. Mrs. McAliskey was still hospitalized but making a "steady recovery," the couple's friends said. Three Protestants await trial on charges of attempted murder in connection with the case. -AP 
Pleading for the freedom of Marine Pfc. Robert Garwood, who is accused ofcollaborating with the Vietnamese com­munists, defense lawyers yesterday argued the case is "one ofa kind" and will not create any precedents for the Marine Corps. That asser­tion came as the final arguments concluded. The jury offive Vietnam veterans then decided to wait until today to begin deliberations. The presiding military judge said he will give his final instructions to the jury at 8 a.m. In closing arguments in the court-martial, which has been a year in the making, chiefdefense counselJohn C. Lowe charac­terized Garwood as a victim ofsystematic intimidation that drove him insane during 14 years ofcaptivity in Vietnam. Defense lawyers have managed to whittle the charges against Garwood from four to two. But he still faces possible life imprisonment ifconvicted on either charge of collaboration with the enemy or maltreatment of a fellow American. The court-martial ofGarwood, 34, ofAdams, Ind., who was captured by the Viet Cong in 1965 and returned home voluntarily in 1979, is seen by many as a test of the U.S. military's code of conduct that requires captives to resist. -AP 
The major u.s. airlines are requesting emergency fare increases because ofhigher fuel prices, including those expected from President Reagan's order lifting the remaining price controls on domestic oil. The Civil Aeronautics Board is expected to review the request quickly, CAB spokesman Ted Lopatkiewicz said Monday. The Air Transportation Association, which represents the nation's major airlines and othercarriers, asked the CAB to increase the standard fare level to reflect the higher fuel costs the airlines must pay, said Bill Jackmar, spokesman for the association. The association's petition does noc ask for an increase ofa specific size. -AP 
Bitten by an elephant at the Jungle Habitat wildlife park in NewJersey, a 68-year-old woman has been awarded $200,000 in damages. Elizabeth Ennis of Long Island was bitten and slammed against a fence by the elephant inJuly of1974 while visiting the animal park with her husband, Edmund, and their grandson. Mrs. Ennis won the award from Warner Bros., owners ofJungle Habitat, after a six-day trial. Her husband also was awarded $5,000 for loss ofher companion­ship. The park went out ofbusiness in 1976. -AP 
Five people were killed in a fire that ripped through a two-story wood-frame house yesterday in Milltown, Ind. Bobby Dean Nesmith, 31, his three children -Shirley, 7; Frank, 4; and Marc, 23 months, and a nephew, Randall Manus, 15, were killed in the 30-minute blaze. "I don't know why it happened, but I know my children are in heaven," said Agnes Nesmith, 27, the mother of the family. "It will be tough living without them. The preacher came over and we talked and prayed." Mrs. Nesmith and her brother, Elliot, also staying in the house at the time, escaped the blaze unharmed. "I woke up coughing," said Mrs. Nesmith. "I saw flames and smoke." She said she opened a window, kicked out a screen and jumped. On the ground, "I told him (her husband) to throw the kids, and that's the last I heard of him." Jerry Mackey, fire chief in this community of 800 people, said it was "the worst thing that has ever happened in the 27 
years I've lived here ... We've never had anything like this." -AP 
Partly cloudy with a 3o percent chance of light snow today. High in the teens. Becoming clear and continued very cold tonight. Low from zero to 5 above. Partly cloudy and not a cold tomor­row. High in the low to mid 20s. -AP 



Save Our Schools! 
Save Our Schools. This statement simply reflects what has preoccupied the minds of parents of South Bend school children for the past two years. Slapped with an ultimatum from the federal government to desegregate its school system by the fall of 1981, the city of South Bend is up in arms about how to decide what integration plan will be the least detrimental to the community. 
On Monday evening the South Bend School Board conducted a public hearing to debate some of the key issues of its proposed desegregation plan. Some of the issues include: the establishment of an alternative elementary school program (open classrooms, self­study class sessions etc.), the adoption of a middle school grade structure and most importantly whether schools in the area will have to be closed in order to 
successfully implement desegregation. 
The meeting started off with a 30-minute "visitors hearing", during which South Bend residents had the opportunity to air their concerns and complaints regarding the plan. The first speaker was a woman whose son attends kindegarten in the Mapleton­Tarkington area, the schools first desiginated to be shut down ifthe plan is approved. Ifapproved, the five-year­old will have to walk one mile, crossing seven inter­sections to get to school. If denied, the little boy will just have to walk across the street, just as he does now. Is desegregation justified? 
Those in favor of the Board's plan, however, did not remain quiet. Helen Arms, principal of the Whit­ney Alternative School, ser­monized that a systemic race system has been the cause of segregation and that it is the responsibility of the American people to eradicate this evil. She em­phasized that although some people will invariably ex­perience some discomfort, the end result -integration -will outweigh any dif­ficulties. 
The NAACP also offered it two cents. The vice­president of the South Bend chapter ofthe Association said it was pleased with the Board's attempts at compos­ing a desegregation plan, and stated that this concept, alone, can provide an "equality education" for all Americans. However, as are the majority opinions of most South Bend residents, the NAACP does not sup­port alternative school program, since this would in­
, evitably result in a "seperation" among students and does not advocate any school closings because that would result in an overcrowding situation. 
Perhaps the most effective argument of the evening was that if the Board can not economically justifY school closings then it can not justifY desegregation. According to recent budget figures, it appears that it is actually cheaper to keep the designated schools open than to have to pay exorbitant busing fees. As one con­cerned parent pointed out, school budgets are statis­
tics, not children. 
r-The_QhserY-er_ 
Design Editor................... Deirdre Murphy Design Assistants .., .............. Greg Swiercz 
Raylnglin Layout Staff........................ Lisa Bontempo Typesetter ............................... Bruce Oakley News Editor........................... Margie Brassil Copy Editor.............................. Kathy Casey Sports Copy Editors ............................ Grass 
Ed Konrady Typists ............................. Mlchelle Kelleher Systems Controi.. ................... Many Hynes ND Day Editor ...................... Molly Woulfe Photographer ............................ Helen Odar Ad Design ............................... Woody & Joe Guest Appearances ........... Bob Bontempo 
Woody Kaybar 
The Obaerver (USPS 598 920) Is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer Is published by the students of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $20 per year ($10 per semester) by writing The Observer, P.O. Box 0, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 
The Observer Is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

So what, right? What if a few schools get shut down? So what ifchildren are bused 8 blocks or 8 miles to get to their school? So what if South Bend property taxes are jacked up again? So what if this desegregation plan, as it stands now, disrupts the communityand bitterness, distrust and fear become a way oflife in South Bend? So what, right? 
The stark reality of this situation is that the South Bend residents, whether they are parents or not, care about the future ofthis city, its people and more impor­tantly, its children. They care that this city, which is already in the throes of trying to get back on its feet again, economically and socially, will, eventually self­destruct, if the plan is approved. They care that their 
children might be forced to walk blocks and blocks out of their way, out on the streets where it is not safe. Or that their children will have to get up at 6 a.m. to catch a bus for a destination that is clear across town. They care that taxes will be raised for extra buses and al· ternative school programs -projects that seem illogi· cal, unreasonable and downright socially unaccep­table. 
Take for example, a small committee of parents who are collecting money door­to-door to hire a lawyer. These concerned parents hope to gain an injunction 
that will delay the final voting on the plan, presently scheduled for Feb. 26. Although they believe the prin­ciple ofintegration is morally and socially "right", they emphatically believe that there must be a better way. And so the search goes on. 
Whether this concerned committee, which is only one of many, is granted an injunction, will depend on whether the entire South Bend community throws dif­ferences and arguments aside and rallies together to prevent this particular plan from being approved. 

Observer Notes 
The Observer is always looking for new reporters ­experience is not needed. If you like to write and are willing to contribute a couple of hours a week, our news department wants you. Ifinterested, come up to our offices ( 3rd floor LaFortune) anytime between 12 and 1 p.m. during the week, and talk to one of our news editors. They'll be glad to get you started. 


S20.00 ( ticket and transportation ) Tickets on sale, in S.U. Ticket office Limited Number Available Sponsored by YOUR Student Union Union 

The Observer Wednesday, February 4, 1981 -page 3 
Saint Mary's counselor plans Couples Exploration Groups 
By KATHRYN DALE 
News Staff 
The fact that over one-third of all 
marriages end in divun:e is an all too 
familiar statistic. An increase in 
economic pressures a.~ well as socie­
tal demands may account for a por­
tion of the prohlcnt, but acc.·ording 
to Tony Camphdl, assistant director 
of Saint Mary's Counsding and 
Career devdopmc.·nt, lack of com­
munication bc.·twn·n couples is " 
primary impetus in marital disputes. 
While at the University ofGcorgiot Campbell devdoped a progrum gc.·an·d toward incrc.·a.~ing com· munication berwcc.·n c.·ngagnl couples and people thinking seriously ahour marriage. Bc.·ginnin~ Feb. I 7. Campbell and his witi. Mdissa will begin l'ighr w~c:kly meetings ofthe Couples Exploration Group hc:ld on Saint Mary's campus. Camphell empha.-;izc:d that thl' ses­sions arc separate from Prc:-Cana and are not ma.rriage therapy sessions. 
"Its main purpose is to explon: 
Violinist toplay Saturday 
The llniverslty of Notre Dame Department of Music will present violinist, Tom Wellin, in a faculty recital Saturday, Feb. 7, at 8: I 5 p.m. The.· recital will take place in the Memorial Library auditorium. 
Wellin, who is concertmaster of the Elkhart Symphony and Midwest Pops Orchestras, will open the program with the.· Sonata in G major, <)p. 30, no. 3, by Beethoven. Also katured will be the Bach G minor and Franck A major sonata.~ for violin and piano, Paganini Caprices op. I, for solo violin, and the Liebeslied and Liebesfreud hy Kreisler. Mr. Wellin will he assisted by pianist 
William Carpc.·nter. 


Communist Party accuses Poland's unions ofanarchy 
WARSAW, Poland (AP) Poland's Communist Party leader, in his strongest denunciation of the in­dependent trade union movement, accused Solidarity yesterday of seeking to become a "political op­position party" and of spreading anarchy. 
Stanislaw Kania affirmed the 
government's opposition to a union 
of private farmers an~ said Poland 
was faced with "manifestations of 
anarchy" and with transformation of 
Solidarity into an organization "far 
removed from what is laid down in 
its statutes." 
Kania's speech, made public yes­
terday, was given Saturday to a 
closed-door meeting ofa committee 
preparing for next month's party 
congress and excerpts were broad­
cast by Polish state radio yesterday. 
It came at a time of new charges 
from the Soviet Union and its allies 
that independent labor leaders were 
hostile to Communist Party rule and 
exploiting the crisis for their politi­
cal ends. The Soviet government 
newspaper Izvestia charged yester­day that the Voice of America and Radio Free Europe were broadcast­ing "coded instructions" to anti­socialist forces in Poland. 
Meanwhile, Solidarity leader Lech Walcsa went to the southern town of Biclsko Biala to join talks between government negotiators and workers to end a general strike that was in its eighth day. 
Kania, who wok over leadership of Poland's beleaguered Communist Party and agreed to formation ofthe first independent labor unions in the Soviet bloc, said the government "cannot Ignore, let alone accept" that "Solidarity is being steered in the direction of a political opposi­tion party playing with the workers' trust." 
He said that while the govern­ment recognized a right to strike, it "is a weapon oflast resort ... many of our strikes arc clearly political in character." Kania also warned party members that they should not take part in strikes. · 
On the issue of Rural Solidarity ...., an organization of Poland's private farmers -Kania said it comes down to one question: "Is the countryside to he a scene of cooperation be­tween the people's regime and peasant-farmers or is it to be the scene ofpolitical struggle?" 
See UNIONS, page4 

A tightly bundled girl smiles out at the snow, protectedfrom tbe bittercold by the vestibule ofthe bookstore. (photo by Helen Odar) 

JUST FOR THE RECORD 100 Center Mishawaka 259-1813 
JFTR has this long awaited LP by DUKE TOMATOE and the ALL * STAR FROGS 
WAIT NO LONGER-------t GET IT NOW !!! Wait no longer to be a part of the most 
energe tic live performances around. DUKE TOMATOE and the ALL * STAR FROGS 
• 

at THE MUSIC BOX on FEB 5,6&7 Don't ml.ss the Album or the SHOW 
JUST FOR THE RECORD 100 CENTER 
THE 
MUSIC BOX 120 W. Mish. 
Ave. 
256-5440 

issues that are typically left unex­plored until after marriage," Campbell said. The eight weekly ses­sions revolve around the formation of a marriage contract which is used only as a "catalyst" for discussion and not legally hinding. 
Discussion is geared toward making the couple aware of each partner's expectations. Raising children, privacy rights, dealing with relatives and role expectations are only a few of the topics dealt with in the formation of the con­tract. The marriage contract is meant to he revised and reviewed in order to maintain communication between the couple after marriage. 
The Couples Exploration Group is limited to five couples, interviewed and selected by Campbell. Members of the group will be encouraged to take a careful look at their decision as well as their marital expectations. 
"You can break up and it could he a success for the group," Campbell said. "A failure would be making a decision without really thinking about it." 
For more information about the group, contact Tony Campbell at Saint Mary's Counseling and Career Development Center, LeMans Hall, or call him at 4437. 

~ 
r 
f 
i ~ 
I 
l 
l 
t 
The Observer 
This workman keeps warm making the sidewalks less treac­herous. (photo by Helen Odar) 

Buy 6 Albums or Tapes 
and get an original Peaches 

Record Crate Freel 
-offe-r e-xpires Feb 16, 1981 ­
River City Records 50970 US 31 North 3 miles north of campus 
277-4242 open ti110 every night 

IMPORTANT 
Mandatory News Reporters meeting Wednesday Night, .6:30 pm OBSERVER Office 

11w Stwfeld UHiM 
!leW 3o.Hte depMdPL!e ~1!41'£e bOJt 
'P06fwt 'Di6Wlud.imt 9Jtbo. & SUjKUfJ fiiVUtt3 twai£ab£e Ut S.U. Ofifiir,e 2Kd b~ ..CaFIJ.!tlww 
NEED ASECOND CHANCE? 
If you want to continue your education, no matter what your age, study money can be yours. . 
Interested? Ask the financial aid admm­istrator at the school you plan to attend, or write to Box 84, Washington, D.C. 20044 for a free booklet. APPLY YOURSELF-TODAY. 
..., Education after high sch_ool 

~~~·i\-can be the key to a better hfe. 
United States Office of Education 
WASHINGTON (AP)-In an in­his recent sharp attacks on Soviet terview on Monday with reporters policy, in which he said the Soviets from five publications, President · were bent on world domination. 
Reagan answered questions concerning the returned hostages, the economy, relations with the Soviet Union, the Strategic Arms Limitation Talks and the Mideast. 
Reagan said the Iranians were "kidnappers." 
"They were the ones who broke international law, who committed, actually, an act ofwar," Reagan said. 
The president said the United States should have issued its own demands and told the Iranians, "here's the price that we put on your 
/.keeping them." Commenting on his-review of the agreement that resulted in the hostages' release, he said, "There were some executive orders apply­ing to our own people and so forth that I want checked out with regard to not only international law, but our own law ... How do we give up the right of an individual to sue for damages?" He was referring to one facet of the agreement • in which former hostages were barred from pursuing legal claims against Iran involving their capture. Reagan reiterated that he favors resuming SALT talks with the Soviet Union "any ~ime they want to sit down and discuss a legitimate reduction ofnuclear weapons." But he cautioned that the Soviets "should be under no illusions" about America's resolve to maintain a strong defense. Reagan made it clear he stood by 
• • .Unions 
continuedfrom page 3 
Kania claimed that the strike in Bielsko Biala, to back worker demands for firing local officials, had cost the economy the equivalent of 1!70 million over eight days. 
Labor unrest continued in the towns of Bielsko Biala, Rzeszow, Ustrzyki Dolne and)elenia Gora. 
The issue of registration of Rural Solidarity was to be discussed again today by a government group headed by Agriculture Minister Andrzej Kacala. Some observers · predicted that continued.;efusal hy the government to register Rural Solidarity might result in a general warning strike. 
A nationwide warning strike scheduled for yesterday was dropped by Solidarity after a com­promise with the government over the weekend on a 42-hour work week and greater union access to the mass media. 
St. Mary's Student Body and Class Officer Elections 
Mandatory meeting 
Wed., Feb 4 6:00pm in the 
Student Govt Room for all those/ intereste1d in runnin 
ELECTION DAY 
THURS· Feb 19 
The Soviets have "come back snarling at me and charged me with lies and everything else. But I haven't heard them refute what I said," Reagan said. 
Reagan said Israel's combat-ready military "is a force in the Middle East that actually is ofbenefit to us." 


Gas priees rise 
NEW YORK (AP)-Several ofthe nation's largest refiners boosted wholesale prices of gasoline, home heating oil and diesel fuel as much as five cents a gallon yesterday as the lifting of federal petroleum price controls continued to drive fuel prices higher. 
·The hikes could be felt shortly by consumers, although one industry source said gasoline dealers in some regions "are going to have to eat a lot" of the wholesale increases be­cause demand for the fuel has been weak following earlier price hikes. 
The source, who asked not to be 
• • .Cuts 
contin:redfrom page 1 
After their session with Reagan, the mayors said the president left no doubt that urban programs will be cut, but they said there were no specifics other than the change for the urban development action grants. 
"The message we got loud and clear is that the country's economy is in deep trouble," said Mayor Pete Wilson of San Diego. "Everybody's got to make some sacrifice," Bradley added. 
identified, said heating oil users probably would see the full effect of the wholesale increase because "they've got to have" the fuel. 
Mobil Corp. said it raised gasoline, diesel fuel and home heating oil prices a nickel a gallon nationwide to reflect "increased .crude oil prices" here and abroad. The na­tion's second-largest oil company said the domestic crude oil price 
hikes  came  "as  a  result  of  
decontrol."  
Standard  Oil Co.  (Indiana),  the  

No. 6 oil company, said its wholesale prices for Amoco gasolines rose four cents a gallon while those for its heating oil and diesel fuel climbed two to four cents a gallon, depend­ing on region. 
"Amoco still is attempting to recover the increases in crude oil costs that were incurred prior to last week's total decontrol of domestic crude oil prices," the company said in a prepared statement. A spokes­man, who asked not to be quoted by name, refused to comment when asked if further product-price in­
crc;ases were planned. 

Among others, Marathon Oil Co., ranked 17th in the industry, said it raised wholesale prices for gasoline, heating oil and diesel fuel three cents a gallon. 
See GAS, page 5 
• • .Minister 
continuedfrom page 1 
of a co-defendant to postpone proceedings on a technicality. Judge Asher Landau, president of the three-judge court, ordered morning sessions five days a week with after­noon sessions added on three days a week. 
Testimony will be heard begin­ning Feb. 15, as yesterday's session was only to read the charges and en­ter pleas. · 
Abu-Hatzeira and his aide, Moshe Gabbai, are accused of taking about $19,000 in bribes on three different occasions in 1979 in return ior approving loans and grants ofpublic. 
money for )ewish religious institu­tions. 
Also on trial are diamond dealer Shmuel Daskel and Rabbi Amra_m Korach, who are alleged to have paid the bribes. 
The 42-year-old minister, dressed in an elegant gray suit and wearing a purple skullcap, maintained the pose ofindifference he has displayed ever since the bribery investigation began a year ago. 
Abu-Hatzeira insists he is in­nocent, a victim of what he calls "a political libel." 
The judge asked each defendant whether he admitted or denied the content of the charge sheet. Each replied that he denied the charges. 
.Committee 
continuedfrom page 1 
Dowty also criticized the "rigid positions" ofother Middle East counries, saying the Israeli Labor party ofShimon Peres, which opposes current Prime Minister Menachem Begin, might be more "amenable" to some ofthe issues. 
The professor said that Egypt has accepted the need to co-exist with Israel, but that Jordan is still too weak. to follow that lead. He added that Saudi Arabia, a key to the situation, is "cagey" in supposedly supporting United Nations Resolution 242 (which established Israel) but failing to support Egypt in fts quests for peace. 
Dowty predicted that the new Reagan administraion will probably un­dertake diplomatic initiatives in the area of Palestinian autonomy after the Israeli elections this· summer, but that until then, the world will just be "marking time." 
Finally, Dowty outlined the methodology ofany Middle East peace settle­ment as moderate and dealing with workable issues in a "step by step" fas­hion. He concluded, "I'm an optimist...but it's still a rocky road." 
Wednesday, February 4, 1981 -page 5 


houses Chetnical Revie~s 
cal Neviews, the publication When approved, the article is features "authoritative, critical, and typically published in three to four comprehensive reviews of recent months, Trozzolo commented. "The research in the various fields of review article takes much more time chemistry". to write than a usual journal article; 
The bimonthly journal of the the author discusses not only his American Chemical Society came to own work, but rather Is com­to An· Notre Dame in 1977, when Trozzolo prehensive," he added. 
hony M. Trozzolo, editor ofChemi-assumed the editorship. Articles A special feature of Chemical come from around the world, and Reviews is the inclusion of a biog­arc primarily from invitation. These raphy and picture of the contribut­Invitations arc extended In response ing author. The author receives a to suggestions received from the token honorarium for his work Editorial Advisory Board or else­Trozzolo !!<>ted. ' where, Trozzolo said. Each year about six hundred Other souces include unsolicited pages, roughly 30 articles, are 
Senate 
approves 
articles, where authors contact the published. The journal has a sub­editor and express the desire to scription list of over 6,000. It was prepare a review, and manuscripts begun in April, 1924, as a special
Donovan originally written for another jour­journal for review articles in nal and then referred to Chemical chemistry. Reviews. Trozzolo, Charles l. Huisklng 
WASIIINGTON (AP) ·Raymond). Regardless ofthe source, a review professor of chemistry at Notre Donovan was approved as labor article generally takes 18 months Dame, is the publication's sixth secretary by tht· Senate yesterday, from Its beginning to actual publica· editor. He is assisted by Jay A. Labin­ovt·rcoming pt·rsistcnt, unverified tion. Writing takes approximately gcr. assistant professor oft·hcmistry. 
allt·gatlons of tics to organized The Editorial Advisory Board is a
one year. and tht.·n is submitted to crime. 
tht· editor. He in turn distributes the nationwide group of respected 
The vote was HO-I-:' to confirm manuscript to two reviewers, chemists, whose function is to fur­Donovan's nomination. lie was the authorities in the field, who judge it nish article suggestions and to aid in last membt·r of President Reagan's thl' reviewing process.
and suggest appropriate revisions, a Cabinet to win approval. 
process which takes three weeks to Chemical Ret,ieu•s is printed by All the "no" votes were cast by 
a month. Mack Publishing Co., of Easton, PA. lkm()(:rats com:erncd ahout the al­
kgnl links hctween Donovan and CUSTOMER INFORMATION FROM GENERAL MOTORS 
labor rat·kctcns. despite Donovan's own dt·nials and the FBI's failure to t·orroboratt.· a single charge. 
Republicans said fairness required a vote to cont1rm Donovan, especial­ly sinn: an extensive FHI investiga­tion turnt·d up nothing. 
See SENATE, page 7 
HOW TO FOIL ACAR THIEF 
A FEW SIMPLE PRECAUTIONS CAN REDUCE THE RISK OF THEFT 
Harp 

player performs 
Tht· University of Notre Dame Department of Music will present harpskhordist, Darlene Catello, in a Departmental Recital, Sunday, February I'5, at 4:00p.m. The recital will take place in the Notre Dame Library Auditorium. 
Ms. Catello will be performing on a French Doubk Harpsichord made by Willard Martin for St. Mary's Faculty member, Bruce Gustafson. Sunday's program will include Ordre II In d minor, (Pieces de Clavccln, 1717), by Francois Couperln, Toccata by Girolamo Frest.·obaldi, Tombeau de Mr. de Chambonnleres, by Jean-Henri d'Anglcgert, and Sonatas K 430, in D major, 426 In d minor, and 450 In g minor. 
The progral"' '>pen to the public without char~ 
• • .Gas 
continuedfrom page 4 
The national average price for ga1iollnc was about J 1.27 a gallon before President Reagan announced Jan. 28 he had lifted the oil price controls, eight months before they had been due to expire. 
Analysts have said the President's move could boost lJ.S. fuel prices about I 0 cents a gallon, and several refiners subsequently announced wholesale price Increases of one to six cents a gallon. 
On Monday, No. II Sun Co., Inc said It Increased wholesale gasoline and home heating oil prices by two to three cents a gallon in the East, Midwest and Southwest following , an Increase of as much as 2. 5 cents a I 
allon in several regions late last ! v.eek. 
The numbers are stag­gering. Every 37 seconds or so a c.;ar is stolen some­where in the U.S. That adds up to almost 800,000 cars a year. But you can do something to keep your car from becoming a statistic. Start by avoiding these four common parking mistakes. 
The "Just for a Min­ute" Syndrome. When you leave your car, even if it's "just for a minute:' lock all of the doors and take your keys. In fact, about one of every five cars stolen was left unattended with keys in the ignition. Keep driver's license and vehicle registra­tion cards in your wallet or purse. If a car thief finds these documents in the ve­hicle's glove box, .he can impersonate you if stopped by the police. 

The Isolated Loca­tion. It's safest to park in a locked garage, but if you can't, don't leave your car in a dark, out-of-the-way spot. Instead, try to park on a busy, well-lighted 3tret!t. Thieves shy away from tampering with a car if there's a high risk of be­ing spotted. 
The Display Case. There's nothing more invit­ing to a thief than expensive items lying in your car, in plain sight. Ifyou lock these items in the trunk or glove box, there's less incentive for a thief to break in. Also, when you park in a com­mercial lot or garage, be cautious. Lock your valu­ables in the trunk, and, if you must leave a key with the attendant, leave only the Ignition key . 
The Space at the End of the Block. In recent years, professional car-theft operations have become an increasing problem. Unlike amateurs, the professionals are not easily deterred. Cars parked at the end of a block are easy targets for the pro­fessional thief with a tow truck. So, it's best to park in the middle of the block. Be sure to turn your steer­ing wheel sharply to one side or the other. That will lock the steering column and prevent the car from being towed from the rear. 
Unfortunately, there's no such thing as a "theft­proof" car. But at General Motors, we're equipping every car we build with anti­theft features. We want to help you make it as difficult as possible for any thief­amateur or professional­to steal your car. 
This advertisement is part of our continuing effort to give cus­tomers useful information about their cars and trucks and the company that builds them. 
Genetal Motors 
People building transportation to serve people 







Editorials 

Outside Wednesday 

Who needsgun control? 
I've been reading and thinking a lot about guns and gun control and now I've seen the light; I agree with Ronald Reagan and all his cronies in the National Rifle Association. Who needs gun con­trol? Ifguns are outlawed then on­ly outlaws will have guns. It's true. Just look at the newspaper. Here are a few clippings that I've been saving the last few months. 
Dec. 14. 1980-Chicago. An IBM salesman is killed as he ~truggles with four teenage hitchhikers, the oldest of whom is 18, who allegedly robbed him of $17 and took the keys to his van. The trigger man, a 15-year-old 
girl, says, "We were looking for a sucker to rip off, that was the plan. The gun wasn't supposed to go off." 
Jan. 10. 1981 -Chicago. A man is shot and killed during a quarrel with an acquaintance in a bar. Detectives said both men had been drinking. 
March 10, 1980 -Purchase, New York. Dr. Herman Tar­nower, nationally known developer of the Scarsdale Diet, is shot to death by his former lover, the headmistress of the ex­clusive Madeira School for Girls. She says, "I was trying to kill myself and he was trying to stop me. I thought I shot him in the hand.'' 
Jan. 19, 1981-Liberty, Texas. Price Daniel Jr., former speaker of the Texas House, is shot to death by his wife during a quarrel in their home. Mrs. Daniels repor­tedly fired "a warning shot," and "didn't mean to kill him." 
Dec. 8, 1980-New York City. Former Beatie John Lennon is gunned down by Mark Chapman in front of his apartment building. Chapman says, "I couldn't help myself." 
I could go on and on and on, but there is neither space nor need. What these five clippings il­lustrate and what they have in common is that they are handgun murders, committed not by career criminals or even people with criminal records, but by people who were caught in the heat of a moment and who made a very tragic mistake that might have been avoided had a handgun been unavailable. 
These people weren't protect­ing themselves, they weren't stopping a crime, they weren't 


!))onesbury 




CAN YOU GUa>S WHICH ON~ Be~N BANNeD? 
doing anything except killing. Even in the case of Chapman murdering Lennon, wh1ch was a premeditated assault, the fatality might have been avoided if hand­guns weren't so easily available in Chapman's home state of Hawaii. I say that it might have been avoided because if Chapman was going to attack Lennon and did not have a gun, Lennon would have stood a much better chance of survival, and could have pos­sibly avoided the assault. 
I'd like to quote Jack Mabley, a columnist for the Chicago Tribune, from 1963: "I have long campaigned for this. Guns are for killing. They have no other purpose. Target shooting is to sharpen the skill for killing. If there are fewer guns there will be less killing. If there had been more restrictions on possessing guns, the president might be alive today." Guess which president he is talking about? Yep, John F. Kennedy. And in the seventeen years since, 150,000 people, 
11'5 ~WCJ<Y at/Y, 8AJJ) rJJE. /1./&Yt 8£EJ.I7011170 6fX1)Pf.AN. !UP Y()(J Ai.IV/3 A$ A YaJ IAKJN'T 
/JAI?f3AIN/NG RE6RET IT. 

(three times the number slain in Viet Nam), have died by guns in this country. 
This is without even mention­ing the shooting deaths of men like Martin Luther King and Robert Kennedy. Just page through any big-city newspaper and note the carnage that goes on daily. It is even more incredible when you multiply it by all the cities and towns in America. 
We read so much about people being shot that it numbs us to what is going on. For every Lyman Bostock or Michael Hal­berstam, there are I 000 anonymous people who hap­pened to be in the wrong place at the wrong time or were the victim of someone's temper, or were plain unlucky. How many times have we read that so-and-so shot himself by accident while clean­ing or playing with his gun, or that a six-year-old child who found his father's gun in a drawer, shot and killed himself when the gun dis­charged? 

--.-.-­

Wednesday, February 4, 1981 -page 6 

Anthony Walton 

--~-......,.­
Cartoon court~sy ofMilu P~ters and th~ Dayton Daily News. 
I'm not saying that gun control will stop the violence that has become epidemic in this nation. It will, however, slow it down. And it will protect some people from themselves. That's why the NRA and the gun~ manufacturing lobby are so disgusting to me. These two special interest groups keep pressuring Congress not to pass any gun control legislation. And millions of people are affected in the meantime. 
Though I'm personally opposed to hunting, I do respect the rights of hunters. I also respect the constitutional right of a citizen to bear arms. But hand­guns are not used for hunting, so something should be done to restrict them. 
I would immediately restrict the manufacture and sale of hand­guns to law enforcement officers and those who are in real personal danger, such as couriers. This would slow the flow of handguns into society. Then, I wold propose a crackdown on gun 

Garry Trudeau 


violators using the existing laws, which are actually adequate, before imposing any new laws. The problem with the current gun laws is that they are not enforced. If there is a need for new laws, they would probably fall into the category of automatic harsh penalties for gun crimes, such as 15 years for a crime committed with a gun, and five years for anyone possessing a gun without a permit, no exceptions, no early 
parole. 

This would encourage the public to give up their guns. Gradually, guns would become less prevalent. It will take a while, but there has to be some start or it will only get worse. 
Much of the rhetoric concern­
ing gun control emanates from the 
American tradition of bearing 
arms. This tradition grew out of 
the frontier experience, with the 
need for protection from wild 
animals and to obtain food. But 
this tradition does not apply to 
modern society. Guns, as Jack 
Mabley said, merely kill people. 
That's what they are for. It's a 
known fact that a gun purchased for protection has a much better chance of harming the owner or his family than any intruder or at­tacker. 
The most depressing thing about this is that the current presi­dent seems to have no interest at all in gun control. I guess he doesn't want to take away Nancy's "teeny little gun." Per­haps if he runs into a Sara Jane Moore or a Squeaky Fromme he will change his mind. 
Anthony Walton is a junior from Batavia. Illinois. Outside Wednesday is a weekly feature of The Observer editorials page. 
Editorial Board and Department Managers 
Edttor-tn-Cbief..................................... Paul Mullaney Sports Editor...........................................Beth Huffman 

· Edt•or Mark Rust Features Edttor.......................................Molly Woulfe
M anagmg ,, ..........................................
Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 

Editorials Editor..............................Michael Onufrak Pboto Editor ...............................................john Macor
The Observer is an independent newspaper published by the students of the 

Senior Copy Editor.....................Mary Fran Callahan 
University of Notre Dame du ~-c and_ Saint Mary'~ C<?llege. It does not ~ecessanly 

Business Manager ..................................Greg Hedges
Executive News Editor.........................TomJackman
reflect the policies of the a~mm1strauon _of euhe~ m~nruuon. The news ~~ reported 

Controller........................................................Jim Rudd 
News Editor............................................... Pam Degnan
as accurately and as objecuvely as poss1ble_. Eduo_n~ls represent the opmton _of a 

Advertising Manager...................................Mack Ellis
NewsEditor ............................................... Lynne Daley
majority of the Editorial Board. _Com~entanes, op1mons, and letters are the vtews 

SMC Executive Editor..........................Margie Brassil Circulation Manager............................Beth Hackett 
of their authors. Column space 1s avatlable to all members of the c~mmumty, and 

SMCNews Editor......................................Mary Leavitt Production Manager...........................)ohn McGrath
the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, IS encouraged. 



--------------~---------~-------------.--~ 
The OIJset:ver,,.-=-=c-~,,~~--====--======= = 



T0 da~============W=e=dn=e=s=da=y=,F=e=b:;ru=ary=4='=1=9=8=1=p=a=g=e::;7 
Molarity 
WHAT I~ iHI5 TOPSY­TIJRVY l-./ORL.D WHERe. UNIVE~ITY PRE-51PENT5... 
RUL.E'... 

Peanuts 
THE'( SAID If'S 
GOING TO 6ET 
COLDEI< TONIGHT 
6 Eigerand 30 Elev.


The Daily Crossword 
Jungfrau 31 Vaquero's 10 Flight rope org. 33-orange 13 Poe's step· 37 Piscators, 
father at times 14 Swain 39 Abates 15 Arm bone 41 Father of 17 Place for Abraham 
seesaws 42 Disconcert 19 Snoozes 44 Nov. and 20 Gaucho's Dec. 
weapon 45 Place lor 21 Sprinters coal 23 Davits . 47 Elec. unit 25 Soft.furred 48 French 
monkey novelist 26 Dame Myra 49 Estate·llke 27 Kingdom 53 "The Mouse letters That-" 
Yesterday's Puzzle Solved: 
All Rights Reserved 


*********************************** 
* •
DON'T STAY AT HOME TONIGHTII 

* • 

OUT THIS STUDENT 
SPECIAL 


i GET IN SHAPE!Ji 
&THURSAT * •
:*********************************t

JYUftR01> BAR ~BECOMESEL~CONflDENTt
* ~
of Beer $2.50 * ~
* ~ 
Fish-All you can eat S :I f.TT ~ LEARN t : ifi ¥ SELF-DEFENSE 
~ ...'".... ,pinball and jukebox 

~, tft ii Join the
Visa & Master Charge accepted ·-"·,.,.,......·ete menu--open 6:30 pm 
~ 


till 3:00 am bring your id 



: Karate CluB : 
511 S MICH ST : SigK UfJ fedaq at the South Dining BaD duing t : diaDer or call Jolm 309 3 •
DOWNTOWN SOUTH BEND 

*********************************** 
Michael Molinelli 

Charles Schulz 

MAI/6E l{OU'D LIKE I DON'T THINK THE!t'RE TO BORROW THESE 601N6 TO WORK ~OLl{ SOCKS.. ~ 
•y 
ACROSS 29 "-are my 1 Diadem sunshine" 

55 Turkish 12 See 48A Inns 16 Aide: abbr. 56 ~yFriend 18 Bacon slice 
22 Kiss 57 Brad 23 Graph 58 Tailors' 24 Southern 
boards signature 63 Schumann· 25 Convened Helnk,e.g. 28 Tabula­64 Netman 31 Takeon 
Nastase again 65 Appellation 32 "My Name 66 Early Is-" 
wetness 34 Naval 67 Fancy mug department 68 Root words 35 Crystal· 
lined stone 

DOWN 36 Ancient 1 Spigot chariot 2 Indisposed 38 Taft.Hart· 3 "Thine-ley Act 
cities 40-de corps gleam" 43 Remainder: 4 Acetate abbr. 
fibers 46 Nincompoop 5 Fish 48 Chess ploy 6 Native 49 Obey 
Australian, 50 "Theway for short of a man 7 Romanian with-" coin 51 Artless 8 Bearlike 52 Commune mammal nearTre· 9 Clerical vlso veil 54 Declaim 10 Amusement 59 Costa 
park 60 Isle feature 61 Tree 11 Bitter 62 Coral or drugs Aral 

• 


Campus 
•11·1, 2·4, 4:30·6:30 p.m. flower sale: smc dining halls and le mans lobby, smc french club. 
•t2:1 
S p.m.-seminar: genetic control ofImmune responses to beg. dr. reiko kokamura, nih tokyo, galvin auditorium. 

•3:30 
-semlnar:intergratcd computer aided manufJcturing systems & the development process, richard mayer, 3'56 fitzpatrick hall. 

•4:20-seminar: 
physics ofhy· pernuclei, t.d. barnes of car­negie mellon, I 18 nsh. 

•7, 
9, II p.m. -film: the spy who loved me, carroll hall, (smc), n. 

•7, 
9, II p.m. -film: 10, go bo, engineering auditorium, Jl. 

•sp.m. 
-lecture: self-portrait 1945; study ofkarl krolow's ear­liest poetry, vera b. profit, faculty lounge in memorial library. 

•s 
p.m. -basketball; nd vs. Ia salle, ace and metro tv. 

•8p.m. 
-concert: musiche of sundrle kinds, anncnbcrg auditorium, free admission. 


Forum 
holds talk 
The American Political Forum will be holding Its first discussion of the semester tonight at 7 p.m. In room I 08 O'Shaughnessy. The title of tonight's discussion will be "Education and the Inequality of Public Schools." All Interested In­dividuals are Invited to attend. 
Copies of the text of tonight's presentation will be available on the bulletin board of room I 08 O'Shaughnessy until the time of the discussion. For further Information, pleast• contact either Rob Gould or Dan Gonzales at 277-06'51. 



NDoffers English class 
A course in English as a second language will be taught from 6:30 
p.m. to 9:00 p.m. on Monday and Thursday in Room I 07, O'Shaughnessy Ball. There is no charge for this course. Foreign stu· dents and their spouses arc invited to attend this class which will enable them to improve their English and increase their understanding oftheir courses and they will feel less con­strained speaking to fellow students. Mrs. Sandra Hayes is the teacher. 
...Senate 
continue(~ from page 5 
Donovan, a '50-year·old New Jersey construction executive who served as a campaign fund-raiser for 
Reagan, initially indicated he ex­
pected to be sworn in formally late 
yesterday at the White House. !Jut a 
spokesman at the White House said 
the ceremony would probably be 
held today. 
"I have a large responsibility to 
the president and the American 
people," he told reporters. "I now 
intend to get on with that job and to 
meet that responsibility." 
Several sources have alleged that 
both Donovan and his construction 
company have ties to labor rack­
eteers and organized crime figures. 
The nomination was held up for 
more than two weeks for an FBI 
probe, which failed to provide con­. firmation ofany ofthe charges. 

~-------~-­
• 

The Observer-Sports Special Wednesday, February 4, 1981 -page 8 

On Gunpus 

This Weekend 
FRIDAY 
ND SWIMMING Notre Dame vs. Wayne State, 4 p.m. in the Rockne Memorial Pool. 
SMC ROUNDBALL CLASSIC ­
Illinois Benedictine vs. Xavier, 7 
p.m. in the Angela Athletic Facility ( AAF ). 
ND TRACK -Notre Dame vs. Bowling Green, 7:30p.m. in the ACC. 
SMC ROUNDBALL CLAS.\JC ­
Saint Mary's vs. Findlay, 9 p.m. in the AAF. 
SATURDAY 
ND-SMC FENCING -Nlltn· 
Dame and Saint Mary's (men and women) vs. Wi~consin Parkside, Chicago Circle and Tri State, I I 
a.m. in the ACC fencing gym. 
ND SWIMMING Notre Dame vs. Marshall, 2 p.m. in the Rockne Memorial Pool. 
~MC ROUNDHALL CLASSIC ­Consolation game, 4 p.m.; Cham~ pionship game, 6 p.m., in the AAF. 
SUNDAY 
ND BASKETBALL -Notre Dame vs. UCLA, 2 p.m. in the ACC. 

The track team challenges Bowling Green Friday. 


ND cagers to battle UCLA Sunday. 
Fencerspreparefor Saturday's three matches. 



SaintMary's hosts Roundball Classic. 

The swim squadgoes up against Wayne State Friday. 

The Observer Wednesday, February 4, 1981 -page 9 
UCLA must wait 



Digger ~yes Explorers 
.West 
continuedfrom page 10 
who placed for us in the tourney even though we didn't accomplish ourgoal ofwinning a coupleoffirsts. 
"I was .especially pleased with Steele Mehl ( 167) and Carl Dahlhauser ( I 77 ). I thought both wrestled very well, especially considering they wrestled one weight class above normal." 
The problem plaguing tht· Irish 
coaching ~taff may be the lack of a 
'set' lineup card. · 
"Although our people wrt·:.1lcd fine, it doesn't mean that we won't juggle our lineup more," reminds Bruno. "Wt· have a lot of people in the same weight classes and the ros· ter can always change after our chal· lenge matches in practke." 
Across the Notre Dame campus, talk is slowly hut surt:ly turning to one subject. The last stories about Christmas break have been told, some for the 


Skip Desjardin
hundredth time. Spring break is still six weeks away and it is too early to make plans for then. 
SportsWriter 
Juniors arc undertaking mass clcan·up efforts in an· ticipation of invading parents. It would never do for Mom and Dad to see that half·empty bottle of01' Gran· 

dad on the shelf or November's underwear under the "We all saw what can happen when a team is up by couch. Moms always look under the couch. • twenty points with six minutes to go in a game last But as the weekend approaches, thoughts turn to Saturday. South Carolina cut our lead in half in a couple THE c;AME. Some of us discuss stratcgy. Some of us dis· of minutes. You can't assume that a game is over at that 
cuss thc rivalry. All of us are looking for tickets. point. "Tht• hell with UCLA," growls Irish coach Diggt·r "Cecil knows his role here, and he is playing it well. Phelps. "We've still got LaSalle to play." fk is going to grow and develop into a solid ballplayer. I 
Phelps is clcarly worried about the Explorers, despite remcmher how Orlando Woolridge: was built when he the absence of Kodak Player of the Yt·ar for 1979·80, was a freshman. Now Cecil is on a similar weight Mil"hael Brooks. program. He is alrcady broader in the shoulders than 
Orlando.
"I'm not worricd about the student body coming "I don't think that the extra pressure is going to bot·
through for us on Sunday for lJCLA," says Phelps. "They are always tht·re for the big games. I just hope that thcy her Cecil that much, he can handle it. But I don't think ht· should have to be ti.>rced to handle it right now. He
don't ovt·rlook this game: tonight." doesn't need it, or deserve it."
"We need a lJCLA·game crowd for the first six minutes of each half against LaSalle. We can't let them The Explorers played an impressive game against gt·t control ofthe game like they did in Philadelphia last 
DePaul in the Palestra a week and a halfago. That, along year." 
with their win over the Irish last year, is going to give Students d<i seem to be overlooking, or at least them a big contldence boost as they come into the ACC tonight.
disregarding, tht· Explorers potential. "Their I2·7 rn:ord is deceiving," says Phelps. "They This is the kind of team that Notre Dame has to do wert· 14· I I when they heat us at the Palestra. 
well against in order to prepare for the N(::AA tourna· ment.
"Brooks graduated, and a lot ofpeople picked LaSalle to tlnish last in thdr conference. But they've beaten Vii· 
"We don't worry about the Louisvilles and the LSUs when the tournament rolls around," says Phelps. "Our
lanova, St. John's, and some real quality teams. Now main concerns are the Missouris, who catch you
tht·y are up at the top of Philadelphia's 'Big Five."' Phelps is looking for a big boost from the crowd 
looking ahead. They shoot 70 percent from the. floor, tonight. hut he wants the enthusiasm focused in the 
and before you know it, it's overtime and your season is over."
right direction. The Irish arc in that same situation tonight. Sure, the
"I think it's great that the students have taken to Cecil UCLA game is a big one. But for the next few hours, all
Rucker so well," he says. "But they aren't hdng fair to him right now." · thoughts should he on the Explorers. 
Who knows -you may meet someone at the game us. Toby only played 87 minutes histreshman year, and 
"Someday, CJ is going to he another Toby Knight for 
tonight who wants to sell you two UCLA tickets. At cost.
ht· has gone on to he ope oftht· top players in the NBA. 
Irish prove inhospitable at home 
ByJOHN NELSON center, a small gymnasium hy com· out the din, the hoots, and hollers of APSp11rts lf'riter parison with many other major col· the Notre Dame fans. lege facilities. And that night, with "Still, it's pretty hard to shoot a 
Thl· two milk·white doml'S of the the temperature dropping below I 0 jump shot with the ghost of George Athletic and Convocation Center at degrees, far ft-wer than.the capacity Gipp looking over your shoulder," Notre Dame Wl'fl' covert·d with I 1,34'i would attend. one couurtside veteran observed. snow. A storm h01d moved in from !lours bdi.>re the game, the halls There is no tougher place in the l.akt· Mkhigan, bringing with it a hit· of the building rang empty. Those country to play basketball than at tl'r cold shroud ofpristine white that tkket holders who decided to at· Notre Dame. soml'lww st•t·med befitting of the tend came late. The 14 rostcred In his lOth season as <:oach of the c;unpus. players from Saint Mary's (Cal.) Col· Fighting Irish, Digger Phelps has es· 
Ttw Fighting Irish were pl<~ying a lege arrived before most of the fans. tablished a home winning mark of haskl·thall game that night .at the They took their warmup shots with nearly 86 percent. 
• • .Macauley 
The Observer Sports Staff: meeting tomorrow at 6:30p.m. newcomers welcome 



Freshinan foru•ard Cecil Rucker bas become a student body famrite. 


Applications Now Available For 
The Position Of --------1 STUDENT UNION 


COFFEEHOUSE lviANAGER 
Applications and job descriptions are available at the S. U. Offices on the 
1 
2nd floor of La Fortune. Completed applications are due by Feb. 6 


OFFICE OF VOCATIONS 
SISTERS 0 
MISSIONHURST-C.I.C.M. 
BROTHERS 0
4651 N. 25th St. 
PRIESTS 0
Arlington, Va. 22207 
Nome ·-~--·---·------·­
Address_. ··-·-·-..--...-·-·-· _ 
--------------ZIP-·-:·-----­
Age ___ 
Year ofStudies Nome ofSchool 

continuedfrom fJaRe 12 
als. (Aragon has already met the NCAA qualifying standards in the HHO·yard run and Mal·auley was .6 shy of the magic I:'i2.2 numbers in the t•arly going)" 
"Tht· middle dist;mce guys 01re all kirlJ.l of off tht· wall," says Macauley, "But we gl't along well. We push t•ach other l'\'ery day. Kids art·, just very compl·titivc around here." 
Now, with the possihility of his al· 
n·ady shortened Irish career coming 
to an end, Mat·auky has begun to ex· 
tol the virtues of his Notre Dame ex· 
(Wril'nl'l'. 
"I spcnt my first semester here off.campus," he says, "and I really didn't ~et into the Notre Dame thing until the end of my sophomort· year and tht· ht·ginning of junior year. Af· ter this semester it may be over, though. 
"I've gotten a solid, all·around un· dergrad education here," says Macauley. "And I've been able to run. Thl·re have bt·en a lot of good times, so I really can't complain." 
Nobody will he complaining if Tim Macauley gets the chance to return to Notre Dame one more timt·. 


crmtlm.tetlfrom /)(t!{e II 
other. If we fenced regularly, in u>mpetition, we'd he at each other's throats." 
The future of the Saint Mary's fen· clng squad is in doubt, however. The tt·am consists of just five members. With two fl·ncers due to graduate, recruiting rephtt·ements is a top 
priority. The cluh has set up a novice 
program to get new recruits. 
• • .SMC 
Any Saint Mary's woman who has an interest in the sport is welcome to stop hy Angela Athletic Facility weeknights at 7:30 for introductory Instruction. Otherwise, feel free to contact any team member. Four· year fencer, three·year captain, and two·time national competitor Sharon Moore is quick to notify those interested that "No ex· perience is necessary!" By the way, Sharon Moore never fenced a day in, her life before entering Saint M_ary's! 



TheObserver Wednesday,February4, 1981-page 10 


Grapplers go west to face Stanford 
By LOUIE SOMOGYI coach who is completing a four-year Brunq. "we'll be stronger in the the . Invitational included junior Sports Writer program toward his doctrate degree lower weights while they'll be stron­Mark Fisher (13-8-2), freshman Joe from Stanford in interdisciplinary­ger in the upper weights, so the Agostino (9-4), and ·junior Brian The sunny shores ofCalifornia rat­humanistic studies. Bruno, a former outcome ought to be interesting. In Erard (7-13), who all placed fourth her than the snow drifts of South Stanford coach, is credited with spite of our injuries and illnesses, I at 126, 142, and 158 pounds, Bend marks the calendar this bringing the Cardinal wrestling think we have a good chance ofwin­r~spectively, for a team total of 27 weekend -for the Notre Dame wres­program from club to varsity status. ning the meet." points -well behind John Carroll tling squad. "This trip to the coast is one ofthe A number ofpositions in the Irish University's I08-point first place to­
Sporting a 6-7 dual meet ledger, bright spots for our team this ranks remain up for grabs, but some tal. the Irish grapplers will face the Stan· season," says Bruno. "It gives us the question marks were cleared up in Nevertheless, Bruno remains op­ford Cardinals in Palo Alto, Cal. opportunity to_ travel and get away last week's National Catholic Invita­timistic about his young and Friday night before wrestling the Air from 'Alaska'. tional. Notre Dame took fifth place inexperienced squad. Force Falcons in Colorado Springs, "We'll be pretty even with Stan­in the nine-team affair and was led by "I don't like talking about the low Col. Monday afternoon before ford," he continues. "They've had junior John Campana's runnerup points we've had," emphasizes returning home Tuesday morning.-problems ~imilar to ours and we'll performance in the 150-pound class. Bruno. "I know that I was happy 
The West Coast trip marks a be facing them on a match-to-match Campana's dual meet record is now with the performance of the guys homecoming of sorts for Brother basis without including forfeits. 16-6-1. • 
Curt Rood 

Joseph Bruno, the first-year Irish "Against Air Force," predicts Other scorers for Notre Dame in See WEST, page 9 
--..l.­

u\A.alldi n!lag tftcketg gaQeg 

Pa'iifcipation Chart 
100 percent 
90 percent 
80 percent 
70 percent 
60 percent 
50 percent 
40 percent 
. 30 percent 
.... 20 percent 
.... 10 percent 

.. ..
... u 0 "0 a >-1;; c ..
... -~ 

~ = c a. == i, c 0 ... ... c ... :::;; z :; ... a :::;; ; ~ 0 ~-E ... ·i 't: 'o 
~ ~ 'i u ~ ; := ... ~ ....~ £ \!) "' :t 0 :.t !l 0 ; !! ~ j .,.; "' ~ N
§ ] ; .c f ,;; ~ ... !! ~ :a -~ .§, t1l ~ ~ 
1>. 0 X

<" < = c ~ E! e ~ :::;; 1>. 'E
u u
u

u :::;; " 
::-" ~ 0 " a'
-a :11
= X 1>.
X 

• 
• 

NOTRE DAME STUDENT -UNION 

SPRING BREAK IN DAYTONA BEACH 
MARCH 13 -22,.1981 
4PER ROOM
1207 
[2 Double Beds) 


6 PER ROOM
1195 
13 Double Beds) 
TRIP INCLUDES e·Round trip motor coach transportation on first class charter coaches leaving the campus Friday 


evening March 13 and traveling straight through with plenty of partying to Daytona Beach, arriving the following day. The return trip departs the follow­ing Sat. in the afternoon, and arrives back on campus the next day. 
• 
A full seven nights accommodations at the Plaza Hotel of Daytona Beach, Florida. 

• 
A great time in Daytor.Ja with special parties and activities. 

• 
Optional trip to Disney World available. 

• 
All t::~xes and gratuities. 





SIGN UP NOW AT THE TICKET OFFICE IN THE LA FORTUNE BUILDING 
8:00 a.m. -5:00 p.m. MON.-FRI. OR CALL 283-3031 [after five 2Sa-6283J 


~j)(),-tS~J~J~~~i~~~~~~S~====~~===================w==ed=n=es=d=~=,F=e=br=u=ary==4=,1=9=8I===p=ag=e~II by The Ohsem'r and The AHuciatcd PrrJJ Mary Pat Sitllngtonscored 14 points and pulled down 13 rebounds as the St. Mary's basketball team downed Goshen, 46·39, SMC fencers split triangular meet in Goshen. Cheryl Magt paced the losers with 12 points. The win hikes the Belles record to 8·7. The women next take to the court in the St. mcnt because of a conflict with her did." Mary's Tournament this Friday night at 9 p.m. against Findlay College By DEIRDRE GRANT Senior Comprehensive Exams. The parallel that Moore draws be· at the Angela Athletic Facility. Sports Writer The girls quickly regained their tween the teams from neighboring composure and defeated their campuses is a legitimate one. Both The Saint Mary's fencing team suf· second opponent of the day, Case teams practice and enter tourna·A pre-UCLA pep rally ~ill be held Saturday at 7:30 fered its first defeat of the season Western, 14·2. Moore, captain ofthc ment play together. The interplayp.m. in the ACC Pit. Featured speakers include Coach Digger Phelps Saturday, in a highly competitive tri­team, noted that it was not a lack of between the two teams is so strongand tri-captains Kelly Tripucka, Orlando Woolridge, and Tracy angular battle against Ohio State and ability on the Saint Mary's squad, but that the only times they raise a foilJackson. Also on hand as guest speaker will be the new Fighting Irish Case Western. The Belles record rather the completely superior against each other in competitionhead football coach, Gerry Faust. Students are asked to enter and exit now stands at 4-1 overall. talent of the Ohio State fencers. arc the Great Lakes Tournament andthe ACC through Gate I only. • In their first match ofthe day, the "Ohio State is very competitive. The the Nationals. Moore commented fencers were easily conquered by girls have a great deal ofexperience that because of the closeness of the the Buckeyes, 14-2. Twila Kitchin and the coach has his eye on the Na­Speed skater Eric Heiden, who set five Olympic teams, it would be difficult to com· and Sharon Moore were 1-3, whilerecords while winning five gold medals In the 1980 Winter Olympics, tionals each year. We gave it our pete against each other. "We helpEileen Mendez and Ann Hendrickreceived the U.S. Amateur Athletic Union's prestigious Sullivan Award best, but they're an extremely dif· each other every day and know each were 0-4. Michele Strohman wasMonday night as the nation's outstanding amateur athlete. ficult team to meet. The Notre Dame unable to participate in the tourna· See SMC, page 9women had as tough a time as we  
All classified ads must be received by 5:00p.m. , two dars prior to the Issue In which the ad Is run. The Obalrvlr office wll accept classlfieds Monday thrOUQh Friday, 10:00 a.m. to 5;00 p.m. All classlfieds must be pre·pald, either In person or through the mall.Classifieds  
FOR SALE: Nlkon F camera with Need 3 GA UCI.A llx. Call SMC Interc:sted in a volunteer program af· Just a quick thank you to alltht· guys 4779. ter you graduate? The Marianist In the DT who made our OPENINGLl__NO_T_IC_ES~''~_FO_R_R_EN_T~] 50mm r/2 lens, S250. 200mm kns for Nlkon, S40. Pete 3895. Voluntary Service program alms al NIGHT such a success. Keith, you TWO UCI.A ALUMNI WILL PAY serving the needs of the urhan poor were a charmc.-r. Saigh, we owe you a Furnished house for rent a couple: In Midwestern clUes. The DirectorFOR SALE· STANLEY KAPlAN MEGA-HUCKS TO SEE THE HRUINS hlg one...glad you could make it. PROFESSIONAl TYPING. Tt·rm block• from campus and furnl•ht·d wiU be In the Ubrary ConcourseMCAT BOOKS. EXCELLENT CON· GET WHIPPED IN THE ACC. CAI.l Orlan, w<:'ll try 10 forget about the papen, thc:sc.s, etc. Tape..· tran~crip· country house: for rent, 12 minutes today the 4th from l :30-4 pm.DITION AND GOOD PRICE. CAll JIMAT4613. little spill. Gracey, you're always a tlon. l..ut year's same low pril'c..·s. All to N.D. 277·3604, 2KK·09~~. JANET 277-7776. doll. And Jim, what can l say? Thanks work suarantccd. aart.h·ark l need 2 or 4 G.A. Tickets for TUTOR NEEDED · Freshman In h.s., you guys. It was fun. automatit· solmiuns. .289-6..,.~.'\. Houses for rem for next sc.:hool UCI.A. Call Don at x l 14 3. 1st y~:ar French. Contact Volunteer l.ove and kisses, Tht• Corporal year or summer. Furnished, good Services, 7308. P.S. Hill. we'll forget ahout that night.19H I GRAI>S: Resumes TYPF.~F.T nt."ighborhood. dose to campus. NEED 2 UCI.A GA's. Would like to OK? (camera ready). Special II n. Clost· l77-3604, lHH-09~5. exchange for 2 or 3 Student tix ATTENTION LADIES: Michael). K.TICKETSIll N.ll. Calll7l-3716. and/or US. Call Mary-6747. will be arriving at his Intellectual and ATTENTION PRE-PROFESSIONAl.~: Houses for rc..·nt HI -K.2 sl·hool year. sexual peak this Thursday at I 0 AM . EAT EARLY The Thurs. K-9 ~ml Thur.. 9·1 o Close to l'ampus, good condition, For Sale: 4 padded G.A.'s to lJCI.A. AlL are Invited to attend this gala The 2nd Pre-professional cluh mtg mlxoloi!Y da.'""" will have ~heir tlrst partially furnished. Call lK"·~~61 af· event In Keenan. Please RSVP AndyNEED 2 GA TICKETS FOR ND· CHEAP! Call between mldnl!e and 6 will be held on Thursday, Ft'h. 5 at 6 meeting at their respective.· hours or Dave.ter6 p.m. a.m. Jim x3637. p.m. In 127 NSH. Topks: Organi>a·UCI.A HASKETHAI.L GAME. PLEASEthis thursday In the llaAA'Jr llall CALL SHIRLEY AT K66I OR 1715 lion (officers & commluees), sign· Auditorium. These dasse!t arc.· fur Rem: large, four bedroom, par­Mary & Ann's Second Annual Heach DEFORE 5 P.M. Need many UCI.A !lx, Student or up for Loyola Med School tour, doM"d, only thu5C' students who tially furnished house. Alarm system G.A. Call Doh at I 744. Party is being postponed until Feb. Physician lecturers, Smoker at rejlistered may al!end. availahk. lK3·K702 27. Hold on to your heach !Owds--itNEED UCLA GA'S··CAU. MATT AT Senior Bar and kick-off Happy hour. will be worth the walt!!232·0921. Need two UCI.A llckets. Will pay Also slgn·up for Physic and Organic MOM ANI> I>AD WANT TO SEE MALE NHDED TO RENT apart· U. Calli I 54. study sc:ssionsthat will ht• held again. UCI.A GAME. I>ON'T lF.T ME I>ISAP· ment with thre~ other.. furnished. THE SECOND CITY IS HEREI!IWANTED, I UCI.A TICKET, STU· NOW IS TIH; TIME FOR AU. l'RE· POINT Tlll:MI IF YOliiiAVE l GA'S. fully secure, 190/mo. plus You've seen them on TV! You'veDENT OR GA. PLEASE CAll. PAT AT Need UCI.A tlx··l GA and I stu· PRO~liSSSIONAI.S TO COME TO CAI.l. THERESA AT 6!16!1 clc.:ctrldty. Notn· Dame An.'IHJl' seen them in Chicago! Now see them277-8727. dent. Please call Allee at 128~. TilE AID OF TllEIR CL!IH!!I Apanments. Call llrian at H<J20 after live at St. Mary's O'l.at~ghlln l>aytuna...Summcr fun...Studcnt 10 p.m. Auditorium. Thursday, February ~atWANTED: ONE STUDENT TICK· FOR SALE: l UCI.A Student tix. fiEll.O PAlTY llninn...Lc.·t's go! (call tic..·kt.•t oftkt') 8p.m.ET TO TilE UCI.A GAME. WILl. PAY Best offer. Call Pat at 3089. US. CAll MICI!El.l.E AT 136~. APllROUITE, Nt·rd a RIDF. TO ST. I.OlllS and What do JOHN liEllJSill, DAN AYK· THE GODS GROW IMPATIENT hat·k for any weekend. Will.,hart· ex· ROYD. JANE CURTIN AND Gll.DANeed 2 tix for UClA game. Call TO l.EARN MORI: KNOWLEDGE penscs . Call Mac at Ill ~. RAJ>NER have in common? They allEileen at IIU4l. ABOUT THE GODDESS OF l.OVF.![ PERSONALS 1 staned in the Second City comedr ·ZEUS A'n'f.NTION! THURSDAY NIGHT [ W~NTED I troupe. Sec them at St. Mary'•BLESS ME WITH I PAIR UClA IOWl.lNG l.EAGIIE NOW FOR· O'l.augltlln Auditorium on ThursdaySTUDENT OR GAs. RECEIVE $US ANNIE GOLD STAR: ~IN<i! CONSISTS OF ~­MAN at 8 p.m. (C'mon, you missed Mlc·CAll GREG 2754 I OPM OR LATER ELEGANT,l.OVEI.Y.<:HARMINGINSTANT CASII PAID FOR ClASS 'f.AMS, STARTING IN EARI.Y hael Stanley three months ago and he AND DENNYISH CAN ONI.YRINGS, S20· 1115 OR MORE. WEEHRliARY. H>R INFORMATION Will pay U for Huston U G.A.'• on has a song In the Top Fony already.Need 2 GA UCI.A tickets. Call Dl:SCRIIIE TillS COL/Pl.E AT TilEMAKE HOUSE CAI.L~. 2~~·2402.lR TO TliRN IN TEAM ROSTERS l'eh. IU. Call Tracey ~206 ( SMC ). l>on't mess up this chann: to srt·12K4. 1ST ANNUAl. 6-~·4·3·2·1·1! l llAll .ALL RAY AT 66~l OR TOM AT --------------­tomorrow's stars today!) AN EXCEI.l.ENT liVENING AVECWill pay U for Hoston U G.A.'s on·O:W. --------------­My fatht·r will sdl his soul (!lOOt! TU.Need Two UCI.A GAs. Call Hob at Feb. 10. Call Tracey ~2()6 {SMC).Hlue llook value) for just one, ONE, For the hcst in IMPROVISATIONAl.1201. l.OVE l'INF.CON!; measly UCI.A GA tkket, anywhere --------------­COMEDY come see SECOND CllY---------------MegK-Inside thr arena··ls willing to sweep In O'l.augltlln Auditorium. Thursdayl need UCI.A GA or Stdnt TIX. HIDDEN HEARTS? ASK A ZAllMBIE. Red Draw Two...Uno!! fluor at halftime, or dance with Ban· at8 p.m.PLEASE CALL TOM 1700. T.D.I LOST/FOUND l dng Irish If necessary. Call 'IJ at OPENING NIGHT was a hu11e--------------­~207. Pronto. Happy birthday, Paul "l.efty" Mul·l NEED UCI.A TIX··SUJOE 1142. SUCCESS thanks to our l.liADING--------------­laney! May you continue to elude MEN:jdf,John, Chrl•. Mark. Stoney. ---------------Flanner 6-A · Need experienced guitar teacher death as successfully a.• you havePARENTS ARE COMING FOR Unt·, Orlan, Paul, Nt·d, and Dave. WeWhat the hdlls ERNDT!?LOST: GOI.l> AND PEARl. thus far!to teach beginner. Will pay. Call jim JPW. DESPERATELY WANT TO SEE only lOVE YOll!-·WWW BRACf.l.ET ATOR ON TttE WAY TO The Gangat6Kll. scoop and the thursday nile staffUCI.A GAME. NEED TWO GA'S FOii TilE SAN I'RANCISCO HASKI'THAI.l. THEM. CALl. TOM AT 3770. Desperately need ride F.ast.GAME. IF FOliND Pl.EASE CAI.l. --------------­TD Valentine's weekend. Going to 8os­llH4 REWARD. --------------­What docs Moose Control do at 7:()0URGENT! Need ride WILD CARD, Go blue...UNO!UCI.A TIX ·· NEED 2 PAIR GA TIX. pm.? ton. Will shar~ expenses. Pkasc <"all Columhus,O. this we~kend. Can MAKCAll277·6853 AFTER~. Nat tlllll.o!'6l. An)'onc who ha~ info ahout a They sit around the TV and watchleave anytime Frl.2/6. Call Rita pair uf wire frame gla.•sc• found at --------------­M<X>StiE. X (344. Angelita Sleeper,DliSPERATEL Y!!!!Need many ND· Faustin: How do you know this girlHcndlx Wont!• on Friday, jan. 2~. Beware Go-fair!Dayton tickets!! Prefer GA's hut also I'm with so wrll?plrase t'all jim at ~260. Reward If ARTISTS! ARTISTS! ARTISTS! The HEY ENGINEERING ELITISTS! Au-revoir.need some student tickets. Will pay Steve: She's my sisu.·r!found ur returned!!! TAU HETA PI meeting this Wednes·Collejliate jazz Fe.rlval nt·ed• )'OU to Your Huddi~sfair price. Please l·all Maureen at Faustin: Oh, S!?/design T-Shlns. l.ogos, etc. If rou day at 6:30pm in room 303 EG for alll72-04K4. LOST: ONE PAIR OF MEN~ old and new m<:mbers. Importanthave and Ideas or suggestion~ pll-aM· Attention Domers:--------------­Yrslerday's Moose joke wa.• ddetedGLOVES ON ST. MARY'S Sllll'lTl.E. business lndudes election of l9H I suhmlt them w Student A~tivities In 1lldp!! Despcratdy need 4-6 GA's SMCJockette ofthe year, that red· hccause of space limitations. It IsBEIGE WITH DROWN SUEDE officers, distribution of cenlficatesl..afununc ur call Sandy Pancoc at for the ND-Dayton game.Please call headed bombshell Colleen M. obscure, anyway, but here f'Oc."S:FACING. IF FOliNll, Pl.HSE C:Al.l. and gold pins, and more. Plea.•e pay 6169. You will ht· rewardt·d If your Monica at 51 ~4 or Pa!!y at rrcently injured herself running. Q: What du you call a private invc-s·HOIIHY I OI>K. balance of dues now1 design Is chosen!!!!!!!! 4IOH.(SMC) Needs full time trainer who tigator in the Yukon? spt>cializes in body massages. A: A shamoo!rte, ufc..:oursc:! AEI.P!!! IIAVE l.OST l ring.• l:~.•t --------------­TO All OBSERVER EMPLOYEES: NEED Rll)E TO ST. LOlliS AREA DESPERATEI.Y NEED 2 UCI.A HEWARE! Don't rub her the wrong werk; a 19KO Dalla.• Jesuit ring. IF YOU HAVE NOT l'ICKED UPTillS WEEKEND. CALL lH7·6'134. GA's. WIU. PAY MEGA-HUCKS!!! way. Karen,out•lde Morrlssc:y···the nthrr. a gold YOUR W-2 FORM FOR 1980 PLEASEl'lease call Susan or Anne at 6409. The' pa.•t Is history. Still want toInitial ring with letter• R.l..S. Pl.HSE· DO SO; IT IS AVAli.AHlE FROMWANTED: Rll>E fOR T\X'O TO dlmb a dome with you someday.·thek ring.• have great srn!lmental SHIRLEY IN TilE OBSERVERDAYTONA 1\EACII FOR SPRING Needed two UCI.A GA's. Will pay MARY AUCE: PARTY AT FISHER l.ct's talk about it.value and l will rclra.•e frozen assets OFFICE FROM 9·5.HREAK. Will. SHARE COSTS. CALl. US. Call1050. THIS WEEKEND· HE TIWRE­Th<: llratfur their return. (Hesldes, l have 1270. ALOHA! DAVE alerted local pawn shops) ()ul with It's only for procreation!!! Willing to tradr season !lx & f for LOST: One very largt· sca.rf sometimeRoh, ~678, 12~ Morrissey. 2 UClA GA's call jack 12011. DAVE-I'LI. llE THERE. MARY Al.ICE before Christmas. Ma1n color: rust Ifjaneo·o, found, PlEASE t·all Deirdre at KO 13l.ust: Autographed football. Gift write me immediately or'dh:.Need 4 GA liCI.A tickets pleaS<· l.Oll·FOR SALE or 11661. for little hruther In hn•pital. Lust day with love,call Kevin 1400. , CONGRATS ON GETTING INTO hcli>rr hrrak. Plea.-.· call Mike. 14~4. lim Hf.RKI.EE; WRITE liS All A SONG! PIPPIN Is here this fRll>AY!!! JOINReward. ---,-----------­My Father "Mr. GlJGl.lEl.Ml" will 38 US!!!For Sale 1974 AMC llornet. Good JE T'AIME! Say It with carnations.make you an offer you CANNOT CAl.ClllliS HOOK. lND EDI· Condition. SlOO SMC French Cluh pre-Valentine'srefuse' Please call Kathyx6KH<J Q: Where do Yukon lnhahlrants PIPPIN Is cool. See it. TION, FOUND IN ACC LOCKER flower sale. Feb. ~ & 6 SMC diningNOW! l need l G.A. UClA tlx. spend their vacations? Rc..·frigt'ratur for salt·. Grt:ar f(Jr Moo•e ConlrolROOM. CAI.I.K7ll. hall & leMans lohhy. A: ?In Moosecow! keg.•. S.'\0. Call 6823. Uke hundreds of others, I am get· (Communist moose joke courtesy of Mary:LOST at tht· alier·the-Kt·enan "Spy Who Loved Me," Carroll Hall,!Inti dt·speratc for a pair of !ICI.A Jeff Moore. Keep those cards ;md lt·t· l.c:!'s makt· Paradise hy theFOR SALE; 197H IIONDA IIA\X'KRt·vicw Party ln the ha."llc..·mcnt of SMC, tonight at 7, 9, II p.m.tickets, HUT check my price first. ters coming, folks; Moose Control Dashhoard Lights.MOTORCYCLE 400 t'cKeenan Ifall: One pair ofdark hruwn Call Mike at 16U l. appredates the help. We've already M.M.AUTOMATIC f 6UO. CALl. lH~­leather glnvt·s with fur linings. If you Anne S. ( Hozo ), got quite a collection of your347..!.have found tht·m. PLEASE!, PI.EASE!, Offthe wall and on the Ooor! What material to use in the next week or Mary Arkush: RIG DUX FOR DAYTON TIX! IT'Sreturn thc..·m before my tlngc:r!'l Kt'l arc you up to? Art· you sure? A goldt·n two. R.C. Kentner, wat<·h this spot -How do you hralnwa.•h a woman?FOR SAI.E: 1974 Mercury Cougar. NOT TOO EARLY TO SELl.! STU·frusthite! Pkasc t·all Su.an at l""· hall, abuse, what a hassle. You're neat you will be responsible for some ol Ask your do<:tor!Call2724. DENT OR GA. STEVE 3369.Hll.\9 US (corny?)!!! these UJKoming moosetcrpieces!) l.H.  


Wednesday, February 4, 1981 -page 12 

Against LaSalle 






Irish seek revenge 
I6.2 average, and Greg Webster, open up the game. Digger also
By TIM LARKIN 
who has II4 assists. The center spot expressed the desire that Notre 
Sports Writer 
will be handled by Tom Piotrowsky, Dame must come out ready to play, a 7-1, 240-pound sophomore. because the Explorers won't roll The Fighting Irish will be out for The Explorers coach, 'Lefty' Ervin, over tonight. 
EXPLORING THE EXPLORERS-The Irish hold an 8-I edge in their revenge tonight when they host the is in his second year at LaSalle. Last Notre Dame will be looking for its all-time series with LaSalle. The only blemish on the otherwise perfectLaSaJic Explorers at H:OO at the ACC. season, LaSalle finished with a 22-9 eighth straight victory tonight after Irish ledger was a 62-60 loss in the Palestra last season. In that I980Last season, the Explorers upset record. The Explorers went on to two road losses to Marquette and contest, Tracy Jackson poured in a team high 22 points and OrlandoNotre Dame 62-60 at the Palestra in win the East Coast Conference San Francisco. After their impressive Woolridge pumped in IO.
Philadelphia. championship and received a berth win at Maryland, the Irish have The Irish boast a I2-game home court winning streak and sport anIn last year's game, LaSaJic played in the NCAA tournament. La SaJie scored easy victories against Cor­impressive I 59-27 all-time record in the ACC. 
a very controiied game and dictated has a 12-7 record thusfar in 1980-81. nell, South Carolina and St, Mary's the tempo. "I over coached in that Against No. 3 DePaul, the Ex­(Calif). In these games, Digger has STRAIGHT SHOOTERS-The Irish hoopsters have hit better thangame," said Digger Phelps, "We had plorers gave Ray Meyer's Blue been able to rest the regulars and 50 percent of their field goals in all but two of I8 games this season.
just come off a great win against Demons a real battle before falling give the reserves some playing time. 
Their 55.2 percent efficiency (boosted by a 62.1 mark against St.
Maryland and we were flat. It was a 69-62. With the balanced scoring of Kel­Mary's) is well ahead of the Irish season record of 53.0 percent settwo-point game and we didn't go af­Although they are missing Brooks ly Tripucka, Orlando Woolridge, during the I973-7 4 campaign.
ter them. but you have to give them for last year's team, the Explorers are Tracy Jackson, and John Paxson, The Irish have also out-boarded every foe except Kentucky thiscredit." going to give the Irish a game along with some help from subs Bill season. Notre Dame has a 32.2 rebounds-per-game average to a 25.9
This year's LaSaJic team is without tonight. Varner and Tom Sluby, the Fighting mark for' opposition bounders -a 6 . .J carom (love that word) dif­Michael Brooks. who led all scorers "They'll be very confident be­Irish arc getting in tune for remain­ferential.
a year ago at the Palestra with 29 cause they beat us last year," said der of their tough schedule. "Once points. Stanh:y Williams, a 6-8, 215-Digger. "The way they played we get past LaSalle, we have five big PEACOCK INVASION -This weekend's semi-seasonal tipoff withpound senior forward leads LaSaiie against DePaul, a few weeks ago, games before the tourney," said the UCLA !Jruins is slated for national broadcast by NBC-TV. Afterin scoring ( 16.9 ppg.) and rebound­shows they are a good ball team. Phelps. "But we're not looking past "being joined by the entire NBC network" and applauding as we areing (9.2 rp) this year. The other for­They had a good chance to beat LaSalle." 
dutifully told (with signs in hand), the game will start a few minutesward is 6-5 senior Donald Word (8.6 them." IRISH ITEMS -Notre Dame's after 2 p.m. The peacock network is sending their heavy hitters toppg. and 4.9 rpg.). The Explorers LaSalle will try to keep the tempo next contest is against UCLA on Sun­South Bend this weekend, namely Dick Enberg, Billy (the ACC is col­have two exceiient players in the down like they did last year against day at 2:00 at the ACC...Thc six game lege basketball) Packer, and AI (Billy counts the top six teams in thebackcourt with Kevin Lyman, the Irish and two weeks ago against home stand concludes next Tuesday country on one hand) McGuire. Notre Dame's season-opening 94­second on the team in scoring with a DePaul. Phelps plans to run and against Boston. 
81 loss to UCLA was the worst defeat the Irish have suffered in the series since 1975. Yet Notre Dame usurped the UCLAns twice last season and has held the Bruins' number on seven of the last ten occa­sions. 
IF DIGGER CAN TALK AT FOOTBALL RALLIES... -The pep rally for the UCLA game will be held in the pit at the ACC on Saturday night at 7:30 p.m. Irish coach Digger Phelps, the Irish players, the cheer­leaders and the pep band will be featured, along with special guest speaker Gerry Faust. 
YES, VIRGINIA, THERE IS A SELLOUT -Notre Dame's intersec­tional showdown with Ralph Sampson and his Virginia Cavalier teammates at the Rosemont Horizon arena is officially a sellout. Start­ing time for the Feb. 22 affair is 2 p.m. EST or I p.m. Chicago time. not 2 p.m. CST as listed on the tickets. 
DISTANISLAO WAGERS TWO BLUE CHIPPERS -Notre Dame women's basketball coach Mary DiStanislao has announced that two of the country's premier prep players have agreed to enroll here next fall. 
Carrie Bates, an All-American center-forward from Kansas City, Mo., has led Hickman Mills High School to two consecutive state cham­pionships. Averaging 20 points and I 0 rebounds per game during her career, the 6-0, I67-pound Bates was a Scholastic magazine All­America choice as a junior. She is also ranked 38th in her graduating class of 400 students. 
"Carrie is destined to leave her mark on Notre Dame basketball," offered DiStanislao. "She is an excellent offensive rcboundcr who will dive to the floor for a loose ball or shoot from 17 feet equally well." 
DiStanislao's other prize is Laura Dougherty, a 5-I0 guard from Pas­cack Valley High School in Hillsdale, N.J. She has averaged 22 points, six assists and six steals per game while leading her team to a 14-0 record this year and a number-three rating in NewJersey (the home of Bruce Springsteen). 
Boasting I,942 career points, Laura soon will become only the sixth girl in New Jersey state history to eclipse the 2,000 point mark. A pre-season all-American selection by Street and Smith magazine, Daugherty earned all-state honors while leading her Pascack Valley squad to a 27-I ledger. This year, she is hitting a blistering 62 percent
By GARY GRASSEY he's thinking about coming back." 

from the floor and 78 percent from the line. AssistantSports Editor There was a time, however, when 
program, I wouldn't have to sit out a 

"Laura is a great shooter, the kind of player who can put the ball in Macauley wasn't so sure he'd ever 
year here." 

the basket from anywhere on the floor," said DiStanaslao. "She's a Tim Macauley likes to joke abou! make it to Notre Dame. 
Obviously, Macauley has made it 

scrappy player with a lot ofcourt savvy." Notre Dame. "I come from a strong Notre 
and contributed to much of what 

She is also ranked eighth in a graduating class of360 with a 3.9 GPA. After three long winters, as he's Dame family," says the half-miler. 
Notre Dame track calls success since 
I979. As a member of the two-mile wont to expound on, Macauley, a "My father is a subway alumnus and 

CAN YOU TOP THIS? -The I24 points scored by South Carolina's senior and all-American member of my brother (Bill '76) went here. I 
relay team that reached the 1979 

Lady Gamecocks on Saturday were not an ACC record. The Irish men the Irish track team, has come to 
NCAA indoor finals in Detroit, 
didn't know if I'd make it, though, 

scored I35 points against St. Peter's (the Pope should have stoppedbelieve there's more to Notre Dame 
(where it was disqualified after a 
because I didn't get in the first time 

that one) in I970. The Gamecock total was the largest score for an than just frostbite and earmuffs. around." 
shoving incident provoked by the 

Irish opponent, since Indiana's I06-point outburst during the I970 "I complain a lot about the weat­
University of Texas-El Paso's Jan 
Macauley, an all-state performer 

men's season (pretty consistent year for the Irish) became the high for her," says the Sherman Oaks, Cal., 
Buggmann dropped Irish runner 
at Notre Dame High School in Sher­men's opponents.
Chuck Aragon out of contention)native. "Especially when it's 80 man Oaks and unrecruitcd by Piane . 
Macauley gained national recogni­degrees in Los Angeles and 20 here, in I977, was the one who brought. 
tion as a sophomore.but I'm happy I decided to enroll. his credentials to the Irish coach on 

FROM OUR OBSCURE AND LITTLE KNOWN FACTS DEPART­"I have another year of eligibility the advice of his father. But the Uni­
Since then, the red-haired govern­

MENT -Did you know that Frank E. Hering, Notre Dame's first bas­here," he continues. "And if I get in­versity admissions procedure had al­
ment major has built a reputation on 

ketball coach back in 1898 and a former Notre Dame student, is to MBA school, it's a tough decision, ready run its course and refused 
the individual level as a consistent 

known as the "Father of Mother's Day?" Hering, who also coached but there's a 90 percent chance I'll Macauley's application. 
800-~eter specialist, while continu­

baseball ( 1896-99) and track ( I897-98), delivered over one hundred come back." On the suggestion of Piane, 
ing his relay chores. 

speeches around the country by 1909 in favor of making the second Nothing would please Irish track Macauley decided to attend Loyola­
"Tim has sort of been in the 

Monday in May some sort of"Mother's Day." coach joe Piane more. Marymount, a small private school 
shadow of Chuck Aragon since he's 

By 1909, the governors ofmany states proclaimed it as a holiday and "Tim is a very good runner," says in the Los Angeles area with no track 
been here," says Piane. "They run 

even pardoned some prisoners in commemoration. U.S. President the sixth-year coach.·"This year, he's program. 
head-to-head all the time and Chuck 

Woodrow Wilson made the date official in 1914, and in I925 the started out well. He's been using his "I still planned to come to Notre 
has just been a half-step better. But 

American War Mothers proclaimed Hering as the "Father of Mother's head and he's stayed in command of Dame," recalls Macauley, "So I went 
this year, Tim is looking strong and 
day."
he'll probably qualify for the nation-
all his races. He makes a lot of jokes to Loyola to pick up my grades a 

The question still remains, who is the "Mother of Father's Day?" about the weather here, and now littk and since they didn't have a See MACAULEY, page 9 






