---~-------­
---~ 
---------------. 
, juggler-page 6
' 
' 

z_l.... 

VOL. XVI, NO. 43 an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and saint mary's MONDAY, OCTOBER•i!-3, 1981 
Robertson discusses dining hall changes 
know of the process, there wasn't

Editor's note: Few things have as 
any reason related to the way SAGA

widespread an effect on the student 
was doing the job or anything like

body of a university as its food 
that. It's just that we think we're at

service, and Notre Dame is no ex­
the point now where we can take it 

ception. lf'ith the discontinuance of 
back over and have our management

the contract to the SAGA Food 
people here on campus, on the

Service this year, several changes 
Notre Dame payroll to manage the

have occurred. Senior Food Service Director Robert Robinson discussed operation. these changes with Observer senior Q: Does student feedback enter staffreporter David Sarphie. into menuing decisions, and, ifso. 
to what extent? 


A: First of all, because of our ex­periences over a period of many years, we already know what stu­dents like. About two or three years ago, we did ·a detailed student preference survey on campus. It didn't tell us anything we didn't 
Robe'*'t Robe'*'tSOn 
know already. our campus is a little 

1 , 1 , different from other campuses, be­-~ ~ _ ~ cause ours is pretty mul:h a national 
Q: lias this year seen any major campus. We draw our students from changes in the food serr,ice? all over the country and from many 
A: There haven't been any major foreign countries, and not just from changes that we haven't already an-three neighboring towns. The nounccd. Most have been pretty ob-production managers are on the vlous. We Increased the serving menu committee that builds the hours, adding fifteen minutes to hot menu for Notre Dame. On a daily breakfast. We open a half hour early basis they keep track ofthe number on Sunday evenings. We've made a of entrees produced, the number few menuing changes, adding an left over, and so on. With this in­entree to the four-week cycle or formation, they predict how often to changing an entree in the schedul-serve individual entrees and the lng. That, of course, goes on every · number ofentrees to produce. year, so we haven't made ,any major Q: Why aren't some of the more changes in the mtnu. popular items, pizza, for example, 
Q: What were the reasons for dis-served more often? continuing SAGA management? A: We serve pizza twice or three 
A: The University made a decision times in a four-week cycle, and we to go back to managing a basic may increase that frequency In the service in Itself. They always did future~ The reason we don't have it before, and I think it was just an ad­
See QltA, page 3ministrative decision. From what I 

WASHINGTON (AP)-President Reagan said yesterday he won't sign the compromise budget resolution worked out between the House and Senate to return the government to solvency. 
Reagan, talking to reporters outside the White House; suggested Congress continue over the Thanksgiving holiday the spending 
Enforced retirement 



The exploitation ofemeriti 

Rep. Jamie Whitten, D-Mr:;s., catls a meetmg oF congressional conferees to order Friday as.they try to arrive at a budget bill acceptable to Prest-
Congress budget plan 
Reagan says no to compromise 
ByJIM PLAMONDON 
News Staff 
Each year for the past twenty years, about eight or nine professors at Notre Dame reach the age of 65, retire, and are given the title of "emeritus". Although many faculty members actually look foward to this merited retirement, others wish to continue their careers and teach beyond this age. Despite their desires, the University ofNotre Dame forces these professors to retire anyway. 
Dr. James P. Danehy, formerly a chemistry professor here at Notre Dame, challenged this policy in court in 1976. He pointed to the "Faculty Handbook ofthe Uni­versity of Notre Dame" as supporting his arguement. "Tenure," according to the handbook, "is MONDA permanence or appointment." 

._FOCUS
The definition of tenure implies that a person has the right to hold an office or position. 
The faculty handbook also states that "a member of the fa,·ulty ordinarily retires and becomes emeritus on the first day ofjuly following the faculty member's 65th birthday." Thesl· two passages in the handbook are completely contradictory. Danehy argues,"tt·nure is terminated by a birthday; there is nothing permanent about it." 
President Carter's 1977 amendment to the Age Dis­crimination in Employment Act has moved the retire­ment ag~: to 70. The President felt that discrimination against older people was just as wrong as discrimination against women, racial groups or religious groups. Danehy is upset because "Notre Dame's policy will be changed by federal law rather than recognition of jusuce." 
Professor Emiritus Rufus Rauch describes a faculty member's decision to retire as "a one way street." 
Professor of Sociology and Anthropology Dr. Irwin Press is "saddened by the fact that Notre Dame holds this policy." He adds that "the law will catch up with Notre Dame" when the 1977 amendment takes action." 
Several faculty members who are nearing the critical age of65 simply refused to comment on the issue. 
In addition to the ambiguity in the definition of tenure, Danehy contests another clause in the faculty handbook. It reads: "When a member is permitted to continue in active service beyond the date prescribed by retirement, service beyond that date will be on the basis of a year to year appointment, and the member will retire at the end of any service year unless reap­pointed for another year." Some professors are rehired at a normal salary, teaching the same courses as before. Others, however, receive a inuch lower salary, three or four thousand dollars, for teaching the same courses. 
Danehy calls this "exploitation." He feels that Notre Dame takes advantage of the emeriti simply because they reach a certain age. In many cases a professor must face the decision of either losing his or her job com­pletely, or being rehired at this lower salary. 
Dr. Press ~lieves that Notre Dame's policy is"less than charitable"in dealing with emeriti. Press is upset that "faculty members have given so much of their professional lives to the University...and haven't received fair treatment." 
Dr. Robert Vacca, assistant professor of Modern and Classical Languages, claims that the University "doesn't have a policy" and that most cases are "individualized." Yet he also realizes that the issue must not be treated as a one-sided question. "Younger people," he says,"must be given the chance to teach also." Ifprofessors insisted on teaching beyond the traditional retirement age, new teachers would lose valuble opportunities. 
Dr. Rauch, the representative for retired faculty members on the Faculty Senate, thinks that the Univer­sity has been successful in satisfying some of the 
See EMERITI, page 3 
measure wnich expired Friday. 
Expressing frustration with Congress' inability to adopt budget bills in an orderly manner, Reagan said, "This is no way to run a ra.l· road." 
On Capitol Hill, House Speaker Thomas P. O'Neill said, "The presi­dent just called me to tell me he'll veto it." O'Neill spoke to reporters as he recessed the House before it could vote on the compromise. 
Reagan has vowed repeatedly to veto any "budgt-busting" funding bill. 
O'Neill made his comments after Budget Director David A. Stockman told reporters the president found the compromise worked out over two grueling days of House-Senate negotiations was unacceptable. 
Faced with the threatened veto, it was not clear that congressional leaders would ever submit the proposal to a vote. 
Officials said that instead of hoping to resolve the dispute over the measure immediately, the ad­ministration was seeking a 15-day, stripped-down extension of the expired stop-gap funding bill. That would minimize disruptions in government services while Congress and the White House worked to resolve their disagree­ments. 
Technically, the government ran out of money at 12:01 a.m. 
The Reagan administration earlier had declined to say whether the president would accept the com­promise plan agreed to by House and Senate conferees as meeting his austerity budget or reject It with the 
See COMPROMISE, page 4 

Campus escort service on trial this week 
By MARGARET FOSMOE 
News Staff 
The Campus Escort System has been placed on a trial basis this week in order to evaluate a lack ofinterest in the program, according to Brian Conway, Student Security Commis­sioner. 
The evaluation will determine whether student response is great enough to warrant continued exis­tance of the program. If not, the serviCe will be discontinued. 
The escort system was inacted two weeks after fall break in response to what seemed to be a genuine interest in such a service. Utilization, however, has been mini­mal, with few women students taking advantage of the service. In 
addition, the program has been plagued by organizational problems and a lack of male escort volunteers. 
Conway said there has been an es­cort system at Notre Darn,e on and off over past years. However, this is the first time the program has lasted to a second consecutive year. 
The response has dropped con­siderably from last year. causing the need for a re-evaluation of the sys­tem to determine whether It will be continued. 

"The program is for the benefit of the student body as a whole~, 
Conway attributes much of the lack of interest to the fact that there have been no reported attacks after dark so far. this year. This may have lulled students into a false sense of security. He warns: "Last year there were no attacks reported until about this time of year. Because of the warm autumn, more people have been out at night." Conway went on 
See ESCORTS, page 4 

News Brie -s 
By The Observer and The AssociatedPres 

CIA DirectorWilliamJ. Casey,one ofa hand­
ful of men with broad access to the government's secret data on international economic developments, has reversed the practice of his two predecessors and kept control ofhis personal stock holdings. Casey and his wife own stock worth at least $1.8 million, and per­haps more than $3.4 million, in 27 corporations with major foreign operations. Many of the firms are involved with oil, natural gas and strategic minerals and operate in nations of deep interest to U.S. intelligence. Unlike Casey, others with access to closely held economic secrets -including President Reagan, Vice President George Bush, Secretary of State Alexander M. Haig]r. and Treasury Secretary Donald T. Regan -placed their holdings in blind trusts. Secretary of Defense Caspar Weinberger divested his stock in com­panies which do business with the Pentagon, but he did not create a blind trust. Casey, whose past business dealings are under investiga­tion by the Senate Intelligence Committee, maintains ultimate con­trol over his stocks although an investment adviser handles day-to-day management of the portfolio, according to CIA general counsel Stanley Sporkin. -AP 
Massachusetts General Hospital,one ofthe 
nation's major medical research centers, issued new guidelines yes­
terday ordering doctors to avoid experiments on children unless the 
risks are "decisively outweighed" by the potential benefits. In all 
human experiments, the regulations say, "concern for the individual 
takes precedence over the interests of science and society." The 
new code is the first revision ofthe hospital's ethical gudelines in II 
years. The rules were written by the hospital's Subcommittee on 
Human Studies, which reveiws human experiments at the institu­
tion. Dr. Edgar Taft, the panel's secretary, said Massachusetts 
General's $37.7 million research budget is the largest of any inde­
pendent hospital in the United States, and halfofthis money is spent 
on human studies. "We are a group ofpeople who are committed to helping others and not making life more difficult for them or poten­tially risky, and perhaps that's why we have tended to be so con­servative," Taft said in an interview. -AP 
Almost 300,000 Spaniards, offering the Fascist 
salute and cheering the leader of last February's failed right-wing coup, packed a square in front ofthe Royal Palace yesterday to mark the sixth anniversary ofthe death ofdictator Gen. Francisco Franco. Rally organizers, emboldened by rumors in recent days predicting another coup called the turnout the biggest since Franco, Spain's iron-fisted ruler for 36 years, died on Nov. 20, I975. The militant right-wingers defied a government order prohibiting the use of military uniforms and the Spanish flag at political raies. Dressed in the blue shirts of the Fascist-style Falange party and waving tens of thousands ofthe red-and-yellow flags, they shouted for freedom for Lt. Col. Antonio Tejero, the Civil Guard officer who led the storming of Parliament nine months ago in a vain bid to overthrow the con­stitutional monarchy government. Raimundo Fernandez Cuesta, chief of the Falange party, said the rally was not a routine com­memoration, "but a national affirmation, necessary because Spain is in danger ofdestruction." -AP 
Ringo Starr, back in Britain with his new wife after two years spent mainly in the United States, says he's happier than ever. In an interview with the Sunday Mirror, the drummer, singer and former Beatie said it wasn't fear of assassination that brought him home some six months after ex-Beatle]ohn Lennon was slain in New York. "I'd been making an album every November and releasing it the following April. It was becoming boring, like working in a fac­tory," the 41-year-old millionaire musician was quoted as saying. Starr, who has a 17th century mansion in Berkshire, married actress Barbara Bach, his second wife, last April. "Barbara has changed everything," he said. "Look at me. I'm smiling more than I ever used to and I'm in love." Starr's latest album, "Stop and Smell the Roses," is dedicated to Barbara. It also carries the inscription "Thanks to My Three Brothers," the other Beatles -John Lennon, George Harrison 
and Paul McCartney. -AP 
Fr.JosephMcVeigh, a Catholic priest from Ederney, County Fermanagh, Northern Ireland, will speak in the Library Auditorium at 8 p.m. tonight. His topic will be "Northern Ireland: Past, Present, and Future." The lecture, which is sponsored by Notre Dame's Center for Pastoral and So.cial Ministry, is open to the public. McVeigh, who is on study leave in the United States, was a Catholic chaplain at Long Kesh Prison from 1971 to 1975. During the con­troversial parliamentary campaign of the IRA hunger striker Bobby Sands, McVeigh urged Catholic voters in Fermanagh and Tyrone to elect Sands and to make "a clear and direct statement to the British government: 'Rule with justice or get out." Since last April, Fr. McVeigh has been barred from Long Kesh Prison by Church authori­ties and government officials in Northern Ireland. -The Observer 
Cloudy and not as cold todaywith a 6o per­
cent chance of light snow in the morning changing to rain in the afternoon. High in the mid to upper 30s. Rain ending tonight. Low in the low to mid 30s. Mostly cloudy and warmer tomorrow. High in the upper 30s to low 40s. -AP 

THE INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME 'AND SAINT MARY'S FOUNDED NOV. 3. 1966 

----.---­
Monday, October 23, 1981-page 2 
~--~--­




Still on the Reagan team? 

When Office ofManagement and Budget Direc­tor David Stockman began an eight-month series of interviews with William Greider, assistant managing editor of the Washington Post, he probably didn't realize the furor the article, published in the December issue of Atlantic 
Monthly, would create. In the 24-page piece Stockman did a lot of damage to the economic program President Ronald Reagan has tried to sell Congress and the public. Stockmam attacked the President's plans for budget balancing, tax cutting and defense spending, invalidating the program Stockman himself had worked "twenty hours a day for ten months" to shape. As the Atlantic ar­tide quotes in reference to his recommendations for cuts in Social Security benefits, a statement that easily applies to his present situation, "Basically, I screwed up quite a bit." 
Stockman has never denied his quotes published in Atlantic but, instead has questioned Greider's right to quote him. "Do people think I'm (Stockman) a dope?" he questioned immediately after the story broke. "Does anybody think I'm stupid enough to say things like that with my
00
name attached to it?" Yes,  
David, we do. "Nowhere  ~  
in our conversations did  
he (Stockman) ever say a  
word about 'This is all off  ~  
the record' or 'You're not  ~Dib~l!ll~ ~  
going  to  quote  me,  
right?" journalist Greider  
responded. The 18 At­/antic interviews were conducted over an eight­ 'IOU YDll  f-IAD TO TELL! JUS1 ltN> TO TELL~ \  
month  period,  with  "'.  
plenty of time for Stock- 
man to refute any state­ 
ments,  and  the  OMB  
director even posed for  
the  magazine's  photog­ 
rapher last month.  
Since the inital uproar,  
however,  Stockman's  

charges of Greider's un-.J...JI~iill~il·ll~...-with 35 tiny hatchets (to 
refused to accept his resignation. Stockman is still an intelligent asset to the Reagan administration, an asset it can't do without. For as much uproar as Stockman has caused, he still is a hard working, dedicated man who wants to remain a part of the President's "very happy group." His team, however, has been bickering among themselves lately, with Secretary of State Alexander Haig ab­solutely sure that someone is trying to replace him (not a bad idea, actually) and National Security Adviser Richard Allen misplacing a $1,000 (or is it $10,000?) token "gratituity" from a Japanese monthly requesting an interview with Nancy Reagan. 
Stockman's credibility has been damaged more severely than Reagan's 
~..--.--.,.-,.--' but Americans still want him to keep his job. The latest Associated Press ­NBC news poll shows that a majority of citizens who are familiar with the Stockman situation think the OMB director should remain and that his com­
ments have not changed their minds about the chances of success for Reagan's economic program. Besides, Stock-man knows the budget better than anyone else. For Stockman's 35th birthday, Administration members gave him a cake 
fair quoting have turned into a "misunderstanding" between the two, "not an act of bad faith" on either side. It's doubtful that Greider, a respected journalist and friend to Stockman would be unethical in his dealings with Stockman and publish something that was originally intended to be kept outofprint Instead it's much more probable that Stockman felt too relaxed and said too much to a newsman not afraid to do his job -reporting the facts. 
Stockman's apologies for his "loose talk," "poor judgment," "careless rambling" and use of a "rotten, horrible, infortunate metaphor (supply­side economics as a "Trojan horse" policy) have been delivered to the President, press and public, but one wonders when Stockman, if ever, will be forgiven. Greider's article, "The Education of David Stockman," reveals a candid, bureaucrat with enough courage to speak his mind but per­haps too foolishly. 
Reagan was angered by Stockman's remarks, yet symbolize his attempts to slash the goverment's overgrown budget) as well as at-shirt proclaiming "I AM A TEAM PLAYER" Stockman should con­tinue his membership, struggling with the dif­ficulties of the bureaucracy, for of all Reagan's "team players," Stockman is one of the most vital members, much too valuable to lose. 
Observer notes 

----------------~ 
The Observer is accepting contributions for The Landon Turner F1ind, created to help defray medical eJ(penses for the Indiana University bas­ketball start paralyzed in an automobile accident this summer. Send your contribution to The Observer-Landon Turner Fund, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN, 46556. 

The_Ohserxer 
Design Editor ...................... Usa Bontempo Design Assistants ............... Marilyn Larkin 
Mike McCaughey Layout Staff.......................................... Sandy Typesetter .................................. Birthday Oz Neu1s Editor..................... Cathy Domanico Copy Editor ............................. Paula Groves Features Layout .............. Paul Kosidowskl Sports Copy Editor .................. Ed Konrady Typist ......................................... David Grote Systems Control ................... Bruce Oakley ND Day Editor ......................... David Grote SMC Day Editor ....................... Cece Baliles Ad Design .................................. Fran & Tom Photographer..................... Unda Shanahan Guest Appearances ............................ Sandy Vanian Trippers Buckeye Bears (f.tsrer than a speeding Vanian) Moose Bell Roper and the Cows 
Coguno'g 
om egign 18461 St. Rd. 23 South Bend, call ;or appotntment 2 71-18 7 



NOVEMBER SPECIAL!* 
-shampoo, conditioner, cut style Guys-$7.00 (reg. 13.00) Girls-$10.00 (reg. 18.00) 
*with Co-Designers only 

Editorial Board 
Editor-in·Chief..............................]ohn McGrath 
Executive News Editor.........................Kelli t-unr 
Sports Editor ..............................Michael Ortman 

NewsEditor ..................................Tim Vercellotti 
Editorials Editor.......................Anthony Walton 

News Editor.............................David Rickabaugh 
Photo Editor.................. : ..................... John Macor 

, The Obseroer is an . independent ';ditonals represent the opinion of a SMC Executive Editor...........Mary Agnes Carey 
Features Editor ...................... , ..Gregory Swierc;z

newspaper published by the students of the majority of the Editorial Board. Commen-SMC News Editor......................Cathy Domanico 
University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint taries, opinions and letters are the views of Mary's College. It does not necessarily their authors. Column space is available to reflect tpe policies of the administration of all members of the community, and the free either Institution. The news is reported as expression of varying opinions on campus, accurately and as objectively as possible. through letters, is encouraged. 
P.O.BOX Q,NOuc.E DAME, IN 465'6 l.J:19)283-8CK>l 

Department Managers 
Business Manaser ....................._....Rich Coppola Proauction Manager...................Michael Monk L"ontro/ler ............................................. Joe Mulfiur Circulation Manager .............Tom MacLennan Advertising Manager.......................Chris Owen 
\ 
I I 
I 

The Observer Monday, October 23, 1981 page 3 
Resolves little 


Allen investigation continues 
envelope the money was in and Allen has said he took the
WASHINGTON (AP) -Justice 
"some kind of receipt" found in the honorarium to spare Mrs. Reagan
Department officials doubt that na­
safe. embarrassment an t d put it in his
tional security adviser Richard V. Al­
Miss Kamisaka has been quoted by office safe, where he forgot about it
len received S I 0,000 instead of 
two major Tokyo newspapers as until the cash was discovered by
SI,000 from two Japanese jour­
saying she reminded Allen several someone else eight months later.
nalists, but that possibility is still 
times that she needed a receipt for The Justice Department is in­
being investigated, it has been 
the S I ,000 she gave him for helping vestigating the Allen affair, but
learned. 
arrange the interview. Allen department sources who asked not
Meantime, presidential counselor 
repeatedly promised to mail her a to be identified have said the
Edwin Meese Ill said yesterday, "I 
receipt but it never arrived, said lawyers handling the case believe Al­
don't see any plans at the present 
Miss Kamisaka. len committed no crime.
time for Mr. Allen to leave the White 
House" as a result of receiving the 
money as an expression of the two 
journalists' gratitude for obtaining a 
• QandA
Jan. 21 interview with First Lady • • Nancy Reagan. "Until and unless there's some ad­know how many more:. It's a worse
continuedfrom page 1 

verse intimnation that comes to situation than we: had hoped for. We light, I think the situation will any more often is the tremendous had hoped more students would get 
remain as it is," Meese said on CBS­production problem involved. We tired of the long lines at North and TV's "Face the Nation" program. 
· have to be careful with the menu get over to the South. Early in the Meese also confirmed that he was 
planning so that we can produce it semester we didn't have the equip­the person who brought the FBI into 
properly. We know it's popular, and ment over there to keep up with the the case, when he learned that 
we think we're serving it enough for demand. We've added two new Sl ,000 had been discovered in a safe 
our purposes. On the other hand, if kettles in the kitchen and a couple of in one of Allen's office:!. "It was my 
we have an item that continually people: to the staff. If they arc still responsibility as a federal official to 
isn't eaten by very many students, it running out now, it's because report that information to the FBI," 
will tend to go off the cycle com­someone is making an error. he said. 
pletely, or it will be mcnued less fre­H T c defended the handling ofthe 
quently. Liver and onions is one 

Q: Are there any plans for tbe
affair by White House officials, but 
where we may serve seven or eight 

creation of a soup and sandwich
said "whenever you have these hundred portions in both dining 
bar?

things come up they do some 
halls when we serve it. We don't take damage" to an administration. But 
it off the menu completely, because A: It is still only in the planning · he said, "we hope it's not too great." 
some people do like it. We just serve stages. Right now, we're trying to The Japanese newspaper 
it less frequently. 

decide if it's feasible or not -
Mtlinicbi quoted sources Thursday whether we have the space for it and Carol Los/, a native ofOrange, California, is host oftbe eveningao; saying "the most important thing Q: To meet tbe increased demand how we could do lt. I'm working concert which can be beard Wednesdays at 10 p.m. on WSNDIFM. 

the FBI asked Japanese police to in­at tbe North Dining Hall because of with the Student Senate and the food (photo by Linda Shanahan)
vestigate was the amount paid toAl­tbe opening of tbe two new 
committee on it right now. ----.;;_------------­
len, because the figure written on Pasquerilla dorms, bas there been 
the envelope (containing the cash) an increase in tbe budget and num­Q:Aretbereanyplansforextend­
!SMC Business Club w>tf&h!Wb"tf,&tf,&b"b"mtf&ff..f&&£#£01Wd;~: 
could possibly be read as III 0,000 ber ofportions served there? 
instt·ad of sI ,000 " ingthedinnerboursto7p.m.? : gpy,t&,W&.o/tf«"'&hlf?i!Mftfuff!M & N.D. Marketing Club ,
1

A: Currently, there are no pans to ' ' Tokyo police and U.S. Justice A: How naive do you think we arc! change the normal dinner hours of ' ' Department officials refused to com­If we know there are 500 more 4:30 to 6:30. ' ' ment on that report, but yesterday, people to feed, that must go into ourthe Japanese newspaper Asabi menu planning. t PARTY t quoted Fuyuko Kamisaka, the free­
lance journalist who conducted the t TONIGHT at Senior Bar! t 
interview, and an editor for the Q: If that is true, then wby, more 
women's magazine which printed it often than not, is tbe main entree 
t 9:30 to ? t 
as saying they gave a S I ,000 thank­gone by 6 p.m.? What accounts for 
t Members and Guests Welcome! t
you fee in the form of I0 bills in this inconsistency? 
Sl 00 denominations. 
It was learned that U.S. Justice Department officials believe the A: When that happens, it is be­possibility of a SIO,OOO payment cause we didn't plan for enough. The will prove to be a dead end, but they best thing for you, the student, to do arc awaiting additional information is to let them know that. ·You can 
from the FBI. either look for the manager or direc­
It could not be learned why tor then, write a comment card, or Justice Department officials had not come yell at me, but let someone dismissed the possibility the pay­know we ran out. They obviously ment was S I 0,000. Tbe New York know, but student input with some­Times quoted an unidentified ad­thing like that helps me make sure ministration official in yesterday's we're doing the job we should be editions as saying the figure doing. "S I0,000" wao; written on both the 
The manager and prqduction staff over at the North Dining Hall has been working very hard to make 

• • • Emeriti 
sure that things like that don't hap­pen. Obviously, when we started this fall, we knew we were going to 

continuedfrom page I 
have more people, but we didn't 




in  satisfying  some  of the retiree's  
needs. In 1979 and 1980, the Faculty  
Senate looked into the problem and  
presented a report to the University.  
Consequently medical benefits and  
other  m:cds  were  given  to  the  
emeriti who needed them. Rauch is  
"optimistic"  about  the  financial  
future of rctin·d professors.  
At present the Student Senate is  :·'  
also considering the is..~uc  of man­ 
datory  retirement.  .\tany  ~tudcnts  
have  exprcsst·d  their  concern  for  ,: ''  
tht'  professors \\'ho  ha\rc:  been af­ · ·.:  
fccted  by Notre  Dame's policy  or  
lack of it.  ;. : :·  

E;DISON & IRONWOOD 
hllr dnip for the 1w1re IDIA 1nd w...n
r------COUPON'-----­
1 

L_D~!!ISION~ ~J~~}J~!!_nNG & FR~~ J 
t  FALL SPECIAL  1  
: 1 0% Off  c6'J~~N  :  
I  ON ALL PERMANENTS-ON ALL  I  

If you desire financial assi~tance, scholursbip, or guaranteed job opportunities upon graduation; then you should enter.... ~ -8 December 
As an important date on your calender! That i~ the day we are pro,·iding information and interYiews in all areas of: 
AVIATION ENGINEERING PERSONNEL 'MANAGEMENT 

at !\otre Dame Unin:rsity. Salaries start from 17,200 increasing to 28,600-45,700 in four years. 
Openings are also aYailable in: l\laterials 1\lanagement Doctors Business Administration Nurses 
Nuclear Engineering Lawyers 
For more information or appointment for interview call: 
31-·269-619~ or 1-800-382-9404 extension 6197 
Dl'partml'nt of thl' Na,·y 
:;-:;, N. Pl'nnsylvania S.t. 
Office, 646 (OPO) 
Indianapolis, IN. 46204 
The Observer (USPS 598 920) IS published Monday through Fnday and on home football Saturdays. except dunng exam and vacat1on penods The Observer IS published by the students of Notre Dame and Samt Mary s Col· lege Subscnphons may be purchased lor $25 per year ($15 per semester) by wntmg The Observer P 0 Box 0 Notre Dame lnd1ana 46556 
The Observer IS a member of The Associated Press All reproduction nghts are reserved 
Second class postage pa1d at Notre Dame. lnd1ana 46556 
. ':: 



The Observer Monday, October 23, 1981 -page 4 
._ 
....

N.D. students enjoy semester at sea 
By David Guffey recording them for the government 
News Staff and research organizations. 
When the ship was ncar an island, 

A year ago Chris Patricoski, a participants were usually allowed to 
senior biology student, was on a go ashore provididng that they were 
schooner just off the Virgin Islands back to take their watches. 
participating in an acreditied Patricoski said that he went ashore a 
program called Sea Semester, and few times on some of the Carribean 
last Friday Patricoski gave a slide islands, was able to go snorkeling 
presentation and discussed the along the Tobago coral reef 
program which took him to sea for Patricoski was the first Notre 
54 days. Dame student to participate in the 
program, but he commented that 

Sea Semester is run by a private scheduling and transfer of credits
educational institution affiliated 
was not difficult.

with several major colleges includ­Next semester two Notre Dameing M.I.T., Cornell, and Boston Col­juniors, jeanne Grasso and Barbralege. The program includes a six Jacobs will be participating in Sea
week shore component at Woods 
Semester. Grasso commented thatHole, Massachusetts and a six week the cost of the program is com­voyage aboard the research vessel parable to a semester at Notre Dame.

Westwind. 
Transportation custs, however, toPatricoski left for Woods Hole in the port of rendezvous made itthe Fall of last year. He and twenty slightly more expensive.

participants spent the six weeks Either to cheer players or to hassle referees, over ship, in which Dillon defeated Off-Campus.
Notre Dame is not directly af­

there taking three classes on sub­100 spectators turned out in yesterday's cold to (photo by Linda Shanahan)
fliated with the Sea Education As­

jects relating to the literature and witness the men's tnterhallfootball champion·
sociation which conducts the Seascience of the sea. 

Semester. Daniel Winicur, assistantAlthough the sea-portions of the Dean ofthe college ofScience, com-

program begin in various ports mented that there have been noaround the East coast and Carribean, 
• • • Compromise
problems fitting it into the academicPatricoski's left from Woods Hole. 

programs of the students who haveFrom there, the ship headed north, decided to go.

made a loop around the Eastern At­called the two chambers into after­
Dean Winicur commented that it continuedfrom page 1 new work week without funds to
lantic and then headed south for the noon sessions to consider the bill.
"is a super program, from everything first veto ofhis presidency. operate.
warmer waters ofthe Carribean. The floor action capped a frantic
I've been told it is a well worthwhile Edwin Meese Ill, one of President "There are a lot of numbers float­
few days ofcongressional activity toAboard ship, the participants have experience that one can't get in the Reagan's top advisers, said the con-ing around up there and we have to replace existing legislation that a rigorous schedule of classes and classroom." He also commented "I ference agreement "did not produce sort them out," Friedersdorf said af­expired at midnight Friday.

crew member duties. Duty times, wish I'd had the oppurtunity to do it the kind of savings in domestic ter House and Senate negotiators The measure is necessary be­
called "watches" were spread myself." programs that we would have liked, reached their post-midnight agree­cause, except for congressionalthroughout the entire twenty-four There are eight sea semesters a and also they have not yet resolved ment yesterday. 
operations, none of the regular ap­hour day and included kitchen, ship year, however space is limited so ac-the problem of (foreign military Senate leader Baker and House propriations bills has been signed in­maintenence and scientific chores. ceptance into them is selective. Ap-aid)." 

Speaker Thomas P. O'Neill, D-Mass., tolaw. The Westwind, according to plicants are chosen, according to Questioned on CBS' "Face the Na-Patricoski, "is one ofthe most active Patricoski, by grades and extra-tion", Meese said the conference research vessels in the world." Much curricular activities invovled with report achieved "a very low level of of his watch time was spent taking water. One need not be a science savings" and he indicated the White readings on various instruments and student to apply. House was advising House and 
• • • Escort 

******************·**.Senate lea~ers 
to try to change the
' · · -f( plan when tt reaches the floor. 
~ White House Chief of staffJames continuedfrom page 1 received, it will be assumed the in­
~ A. Baker Ill, Stockman and Max L. terest is simply not present, said ~ Buy to emphasize that with the advent of 
~ i( Friedersdorf, the president's chief Conway. "The program is for the
cold weather, the campus will be 
iC 
benefit of the student body as a~ Observer ~congressional lobbyist. met with more deserted at night, providing
~ House and Senate GOP leaders whole. The evaluation will
little protection for a lone female. 
~ iC before the chambers went into ses-determine ifthe student bodyfeels it
This, he says, is the importance of 
.Jif sion yesterday. is an important and necessary
•£• d 

maintaining the escort system.
~ The administration officials program, and whether it should beiC: 1 ~ returned to the White House to dis-retained." 
• c ass1 1e s 
The system works on a volunteer basis, with each male dorm supply­. ing escorts for a particular night and
******************** cuss the situation. with ~eagan.
Later, Senate aides said the presi­

monaay.!night film senes11 
Monday. November 23 
Cries end Whispers Directed by lngmar Bergman, 
1972 (106 min.) Very few works In the cinema carry this intensity, honesty and seriousness of purpose. An invaluable source for the study of formal and Informal cinematic elements, and, at the same time, an example of the formodable Swedosh director working at the top of his bent. A majestic example of the art of the cinema. 
THE SNITE MUSEUM OF ART 
7:30 pm admissionSl.OO .sponsored byND -SMC COMMUNiCATION &THEATRE 
dent called Senate Majority leader time. Escorts are avaflable at the 
Pittsburgh

Howard H. BakerJr., R-Tenn., asking library to escort a woman to her that Congress adopt a simple 1 5-day dorm from 10-11:45 p.m. Else­
bus

extension of an interim spending where, women may call 7668 to be plan that lapsed Nov. 20. escorted anywhere on campus from available But during House debate, Rep; Sil­7-12 p.m. 
The Thanksgiving Pittsburgh Club vio 0. Conte, R-Mass., urged the 
Conway insists the program has Bus has a limited number of seats president to accept the compromise had plenty ofpublicity, with posters available. measure. having been hung in all ofthe female The buses will leave Wednesday"This continuing resolution is not dorms. 
at 1 p.m. from the CCE and leave the place for a fight to the death," 
He emphasized that the response Pittsburgh Nov. 29 at 1 p.m. from the Conte said. 
and evaluation this week will Greyhound terminal downtown. A · A veto would send Congress back 
determine whether the ·escort sys­round trip is S45; one way fare is to the drafting table -and plunge 
tem will ultimately be maintained or 529. Call Brian at 1581 to make 
the entire federal government into a dropped. Ifonly one or two calls are reservations. 
WELCOME! 
s2

00 0FF I 
I 

Anylarge Deep Dish Sicilian Pizza 1 
Good at Cleveland Road store across 1 
from University Park Mall • 277-5300. I 
One coupon per pi.ua. Expires December 5, t98ll 
••~ble'll9maJt'S••••
! 

FREE I 
Pitcher of Coke 
I 

with any large Monster Pizza 
Good at Cleveland Road store across I 
from University Park Mall• 277-5300. I 
One coupon per pizza. Expires Sept. 19. 198-1. I 
277-5300
•••~ble1lom~ •••.1 


These days, money for college is becoming harder and harder to find. Except for people who look in today's Army. 
The Army combines good-sized college benefits with a short two-vear enlistment. So you could a~cumulate $15,200 for college and be home to use it in just two years.. You'II also bring home the kind of maturity that can help in college. 
So, if you're in a hurry to earn money for school, consider the Army's two-year enlistment. It can get you money for college before you even start to lose your study habits. 
Serve your country as you serve yourself. See the Yellow Pages under "Recruiting." Or call: 
SFC HAMILTON 234-4187 
ARMY. 
ALLYOU CAN BE. 
..... -~ 
The Observer Monday, October 23, 1981 -page 5 



the bottom ooze ofSaint Mary's Lake for Benthic organisms. (photo by Linda Shanahan) 
Protests mar German 
-. 
yisit by Brezhnev 
BONN, West Germany (AP) ­Soviet President Leonid I. Brezhnev arrived here yesterday for his first visit to the West in two years. Chan­cellor Helmut Schmidt was at the airport to welcome the Soviet leader and top level Kremlin officials and joined the motorcade rhat bypassed the site of anti-Soviet and peace protests. 
Brezhnev and his party, which in· eluded Soviet Foreign Minister Andrei A. Gromyko, arrived just af. ter 7 p.m. at Bonn-Cologne airport, ringed by hundreds ofarmed guards. 
The ailing Soviet leader, who will turn 75 next month, moved careful· ly with short steps as he descended the Aeroflot jetliner's steps to meet Schmidt and West German Foreign Minister Hans-Dietrich Genscher. At one point he almost lost balance and was grabbed by a Soviet military of­ficer. 
Hours before the Kremlin chief arrived, 50,000 people took part in three anti-Brezhnev demonstrations in the West German capital to protest Moscow's military and human rights policies and demand nuclear disarmament. 
Brezhnev's talks with Schmidt and otherofficials have taken on new im· portance because of the growing West European peace movement and next week's U.S.-Soviet talks on 
reducing nuclear missiles in Europe. The government mobilized 5,000 police to protect the Kremlin leader, and ordered about 20 groups of Af. ghan and other refugees to stay home. Agovernment spokesman said-on­ly refugees who had applications pending for political asylum were af. fected, but others were free to demonstrate. Earlier, officials rejected the Soviet Embassy's re· quest to ban all protests during Brezhnev's four-day visit. 

In St. Joe county 
SMC chooses 'Hospice' for charity 
By KANDY POWELL 
Nl!wsStaff 
Hospice of St. Joseph County has been chosen as Saint Mary's Collt:ge charity for this year. Hospice was chosen through the result of a school survey given by Saint Mary's student government. Twenty-one· hundred surveys were distributed to the student body listing six possible charitys. Over SO percent ofthe sur­veys were returned and the majority vote was determined to be Hospice. 
Hospice of St. Joseph County is located in the Angela Building across from the St. Joseph Hospital. It is a special program of health care for the terminal patient. Hospices don't focus on death, but on the period of life that is left -making it more meaningful for the patient. 
The interdisciplinary hospice team inludes a registered nurse as patient care coordinator, a volun­teer coordinator, the medical direc· tor, a social worker, a spiritual coordinator, an office manager, and volunteer nurses. Together they provide services for both family and patient. Hospice views its role as being four-fold, to provide medical relief for pain, to educate those in­volved in horne care, to provide sup· portive servies, and to provide bereavement follow-up and council· ing for the family for up to a years time. 
Betsy Boyle, a Saint Mary's stu· dent, is the first intern to St. joseph's 

6 
TRIPS 
DAILY 
Ask Your Travel Agent For The Big Bus To O'Hare 
Or Call 234-3108 
. Indiana Motor Bu' 
Hospice. Anyone is able to volunteer to work for Hospice. It requires a three week training course consist­ing of two three hour sessions a week. The sessions teach the volun­teers about patient care and family need. An internship to Hospice is available through Saint Mary's sociology department. 
Hospice was started through fun­ding by the Junior League of South Bend. The program rt:ceives no state money. They do, in special cases, receive third party benifits, but most of their funds are from personal donations. Saint Mary's student government will start their money 

raising  campaign  at  the  end  of  
January.  All  donations  will  go  
towards  helping  terminally  ill  
patients and their families.  

Police fear clash in Northern Ireland 
BELFAST, Northern Ireland (AP) -Police arrested three Protestant militants driving a van full of ex­plosives yesterday, a day· before planned demonstrations and a 12­hour general strike by Protestants 
demanding Britain crack down on the IRA. 
A police spokesman said the van was stopped at a checkpoint near Newtownards, a staunchly Protes­tant town 10 miles eaj;t of Belfast. The Rev. Ian Paisley, who has or­ganized today's "Day of Action" protest, plans to parade men of his vigilante-style Third Force in the town tonight. 
More than 600 members of the 
Third Force, some of them armed, 
marched through two villages in 
Londonderry, northwest of here, 
Saturday night. It was the first time 
since Paisley founded the group two 
weeks ago that its members had 
publicly brandished weapons. 

The events heightened police concern that violence will erupt during today's protests. The demonstrations were called to protest Britain's failure to prevent the assassinations of 10 Protestants this month -including a Protestant member of the British Parliament repesenting Northern Ireland -by the almost exclusively Roman Cath· olic Irish Republican Army. 
Bergan 
returns here 
Dr. Thomas P. Bergin, Dean of Continuing Education and a mem· ber of the National Council on the Arts, has returned to Notre Dame af. ter participating in the annual meeting ofthe International Council ofFine Arts Deans in Los Angeles. 
~ ycm wi6k fD. IJ1daiK 

OBSeRVeR 
PHOTOGRAPHS 
fkat luwe ap~eaJWL iK fke ~ape~t 
Send $4.00 and the date and photographer's name to: 
john Macor Photo Editor Box Q Notre Dame Indiana 
46556 
Include a return address . 


The spire ofSacred Heart Church and the Golden Dome, two of 
the most recognizable edifices, stand patiently awaiting the com­
ing ofwinterand thepromise ofsnow. (photo byLindaShanahan) 
Stanford MBA 
REPRESENTATIVE COMING TO CAMPUS FRIDAY, DECEMBER 4 
A representative of the Stanford Graduate School of Business will be on campus to discuss with interested students the exceptional educational opportunity of the Stanford MBA Program. 
Appointments may be made through The Placement Office 
The Stanford MBA Program is a two-year general management course of studies designed for men and women who wish to develop management skills to meet the broad responsibilities required in both the private and public sectors today and In the future. 
GRADUATE SCHOOL OF BUSINESS STANFORD UNIVERSITY Stanford, California 94305 


--~----­


Features 
Monday, October 23, 1981 -page 6 
Juggler tradition • • 
T
he most recent issue ofthe suspending its budget. However, group ofliterary enthusiasts, but juggler, Notre Dame's various faculty members including the entire NO/St. Mary's com­student-run literary magazine, the magazine's current advisor, munity. Anyone may contribute to came out last Thursday. Thejug­Prof john Matthias, managed to the magazine, which accepts gler? A literary magazine?. That save thejuggler. poetry, prose, artwork and photog­must be for English majors or those This magazine has an impressive raphy. Faculty advisor Matthias few who are really into poetry. Un­legacy. Nearly every one ofits believes the absence ofa literary fortunately, too many people feel editors has gone on to distinguish magazine on campus is "like this way about a very fine publica­himself as a writer. Michael Ryan, having a University without a tion. editor during the 1966-6 7 chemistry lab." 
academic year. has won the Walton, Kreitzburgand Matthias By Bill Kracklauer coveted "Yale Younger Poets stress that young writers need to Prize." Other notable former have an audience in order to Published under the aegis ofStu­editors are Michael Patrick progress. But more importantly, dent Activitie~ and moderator Fr. O'Connor, Larry Siems, Rory people must be exposed to the Mario Pedi, thejuggler has a long Holscher and john Santos, who is arts. Thejuggler is an integral part and distinguished history here at Notre Dame's most recent Rhodes of the University which people Notre Dame. The first independent Scholar. take too lightly. It suffers an image literary magazine to appear on Last year, thejuggler entered problem because too few people 
The Ozark Mountain Daredevils entertained the crowd at the 
campus was the Script, which was the "Coordinating Council of have any knowledge of its purpose 
Country Rockjam this weekend. 
published from 1929 until the Literary Magazines" national com­and content. Notre Dame and St. beginning of World War II. During petition for the first time and was Mary's should be places where the war years, the University awarded second place. Prof Mat­people broaden their horizons­thought oflittle else than victory in thias feels that it may have won -including their awareness ofthe Europe and the Pacific. But in other awards had it been a more arts. 
President faces a
April, 194 7, the first issue of the frequent entrant. 
Thejuggler will be available this thejuggler became available for With such impressive creden­
Monday and Tuesday and again after 
distribution. tials, why does thejuggter sell 
the break for only twenty-five
Sadly, thejuggler has always had relatively few issues? Editors An­
fickle press corps
cents. Copies may be picked up in 
a bit ofan image problem. thony Walton and Doug 
the English Department oftice, room 
Recognized nationwide as a supe­Kreitzberg feel that much ofthe 
309 O'Shaugnessy and at the rior campus literary publication, Notre Dame/St. Mary's community 
bookstore. A quarter is not much to the magazine nearly died in in misjudges the magazine's purpose. 
pay for a publication with such a If the job ofthe president ofthe United States was to jump 41 feet, 1968. Because ofpoor circulation, Both stress that thejuggler is not 
long tradition ofexcellence. run a mile in three minutes or swim the English Channel both waysthe University contemplated intended to only serve a select 
without an escort, we would never have had a successful president. 
Ifthe job ofthe president ofthe United States was to run the country perfectly to the satisfaction ofeveryone, which it is, we'd never have had a completely successful president either. We never have, ofcourse.
• • • Continues in '81 
President Reagan is beginning to turn against newspaper and television reporters who suggest he's less than perfect. He's begin­ning to suggest that they're unfair. He's beginning to say that some of 
T
he first thing one notices about 
the people in his administration are talking too much.
resonant poems. Anthony Walton the fall issue ofthe juggler is I personallyhope that the president keeps doing the best he can. I 
shows to readers who only know that it is nothing like last year's hope that reporters stay on his tail, hounding him about every pos­
him from his editorial column publication. Despite the quality sible mistake he may be making. Finally, I hope the people in his ad­
other facets ofhis talent. Before 
and success oflast year's juggler, ministration continue to leak
the Storm is a beautiful, tender 
including a second place award in poem ofthe loneliness that comes tidbits ofinformation to the !¥1-)f:M;­a national competition ofcollege 
And R

when love is lost. Summertime is a press. Most ofall, I hope he 
literary magazines, this year's humorous sketch ofthe im­does a good job and retains ' ooneyeditors, Douglas Kreitzberg ·and aginative wanderings brought on the trust the people ofthis ---=----------­Anthony Walton, felt a few changes country put in him when they
by the heavy, sweltering heat ofa were in order. From what I can see, summer's day. elected him. iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii the changes that were made only President Reagan ought to
"Brother," one ofthree poemsenhance what is already an excel­remind himselfevery night before he and Nancy go to bed that we
by Marcia McBrien is interestinglent literary magazine. both for its content and its subject never promised him it was going to be easy. We never said, when we One drawback to last year's col­voted for him, that we wouldn't criticize him. I suspect he's made
matter. The subject ofthe poem is lection ofpoems, short stories, and some terrible mistakes, and he probably knows it, too. Why would
a dermoid cyst, tumors appearing(Elizabeth Burlage, Paul 
drawings was that with such an he think smart, experienced reporters with inside information 
on the body which are in fact the
Kusidowski, Tom Kovacevic, Mar­wouldn't know about them ?

remains ofa spontaneously 
cia McBrien, john Savoie, Melita Ifsomeone wrote a viciously critical and inaccurate story about

By Jenny Pitts aborted twin. The thoughts of
Schaum, Anthony Walton), short me tomorrow, my inclination would be to find the person who

carrying around these remains are 
stories Qohn Burbridge, Douglas wrote it, confront him and suggest he step out into the alley. Ifthe

bewildering if not eerie. McBrien 
abundance of material, much did Kreitzberg) and a short play by reporter was a woman, I'd think ofsomething else to suggest.
not receive the full attention war­captures both the eerieness
Greg D'Alessandro. Although each A president can't get into any alley fights, and when he takes theranted. This year the Juggler will is an individual creation, there and the unusally close yet empty job he should know he can't. He's got to swallow criticism along be published in three smaller does seem to be a common con­feeling the surviving twin must with high and unreasonable praise and understand that neither is ab­issues (rather than the one large cern that is focused upon. That is, it feel. ("I imagine you sometimes in solutely accurate. 

issue) in an effort to avoid this is a highly imagistic, somewhat sur­complement/What you are or The press has ultimately gotten to everypresident we've ever had.
problem. In addition to the current realistic collection. were..."). This is a fine a poem as Ican't remember one who didn't eventually ask the press to step outJuggler, the editors will publish a one will read anywhere, including 
John Macor's tranquil, scenic into the back alley. I can see that coming now with President Reagansecond iSsue early next semester English class. 

photographs seem even more so and I wish there was some way it could be avoided. The best chanceand a third in the spring. The con­Perhaps my favorite (ifit is 

when contrasted with Richard we have is his sense ofhumor. It isn't easy to keep a sense ofhumorsiderably smaller issues should al­indeed possible to make such a

Stevens' eerie amusement park when someone attacks you, the kind ofjob you're doing, your wife,low the reader to focus his choice) is An Autumn Tale by·

photographs. Stevens' distorting your family and your friends, but President Reagan ought to under­attention more closely without Douglas Kreitzberg. The imagery

technique results in an overall con­stand that we expect him to have Christ-like qualities. 

being overwhelmed. in this short story is wonderfully 
vex illusion with individual figures What the press does to a president is almost as a democratic aThe change from a bound paper­precise, yet there is an aura offas­

strangely disproportionate. The two process as a national election. There are more than 8,000 newsback volume to a glossy, magazine­cination, an ineffable quality which

almost grotesque figures in one peo{lle in W T ashington writing about events there and reporters ac­like volume was also distances it from the reader. The

photograph are incongruent with curately reflect the opinions ofthe electorate. There are a lot ofgoodadvantageous. The magazine has a imagery seems to be secondary to

the rigid equipment on which they honest news men and women who let the facts fall from theirvery polished, professional look. Kreitzberg's ability to use and in­

rest and with the idealized figures in typewritersas they may. They have no axe to grind They are profes­The glossy finish is especially ef­dulge ian guage. 

the background. 

sionally suspicious and inquiring but they are dead honest with theirfective in reproducing photo­This is only an incomplete and 
Melita Schaum's two poems The reports. There are other less admirable journalists who let their
graphic clarity, something often insufficient sketch ofa little of
Dream Hour and Return from the opinions choose the facts they use when they're writing about Presi­
sacrificed when using unfinished what the juggler has to offer. The 
Dream use imagery as ethereal as dent Reagan. About half ofthose are consistently negative and the 
~per. epigram on the inside cover reads: 
· the dream experience described. other halfare consistently positive with their reports. The public isA final change, or more correct­The imagery of Return from the What shall the world do witlllts protected by this diversity ofopinion that pervades bad reporting. 
ly a new addition, to thejugglerare Dream concretizes from the cell's children? Itis my firm and long-held opinion that the public, in the end, getsbiographical notes on the con­bright filigree and the soul's san­There are lives the executives an almost perfectly accurate picture ofwhat any president is really tributors. It is a nice idea It makes tana to green apples and a Know nothing of... like. I don't think that any president has ever been maligned whothese artistic people more acces-­farmhouse gate as the poem didn't deserve to be maligned. None has ever been revered who
Certainly, ifthere are artistic lives 
sible -taking them from their progresses, paralleling the didn't deserve reverence. Jimmy Carter's public image in America, 
the university knows nothing of, a
"loftier plane" and setting them dreamer's return from a dream after all the negative reporting about him that he hated so much, is 
remarkable example ofwho they
down in the world ofchemistry world to the world ofeveryday ex­generally a good one. We thought he was a good man, saintly in some
are and what they are capable ofis
and engineering majors. 
perience. respects, but not a great president. Would anyone argue that ?Would
to be found in the current Fall '81 Elizabeth Burlage's Three Kin­The current issue oftheJuggler 
he?
Juggler.
is a collection ofphotographs seys far from being merely three We like President Reagan. We're beginning to think he may be
Qohn Macor, Edmund Moreno, Juggler's are available in the 
descriptions ofDoug Kinsey paint­making some serious mistakes. It doesn't call for a fistfight in the al­
Michael Mulligan, Eileen O'Meara, English department office and the 
ings, are vivid, well crafted, and ley with reporters.
Bookstore for 25 cents. 
;~_j 


.r----------------------------------------------"----------------------------------------------­
Monday, Oc_tober 23, 1981 page 7
Sports Brie/§ 
-· 



The ObsBrver will accept classtfieds Mon­day through Fnday. 10 a.m. to 4.30 p.m. However, classifieds to appear tn the next 1ssue must be rece1ved by 3 p.m. the business day prior to insertion. All classtfieds must be prepaid, 
either 1n person or through the mail. 

Classifieds 
COSMO GET A LIFE II II On Thanksgiving Day, Darby's Place COMING SOON NOTICES presents MY FAIR LADY in the basement jUSt when you thought rt was safe to go 
of Lafortune Student Center. Times are back home for 
===F_O-=R=R=EN=T=-__JI. I FOR ..~ALE ........... . 
11:00 AM and 8:00 PM, Adm1ssion and Thanksgiving vacat1on ... USED BOOK SHOP. HOURS WED.. UGLY DUCKLING RENT A CAR FROM 'For sale-73 red VW Beetle, excellent con­TURKEY BOWL 5 
THE ZAHM COFFEEHOUSE IS OPEN 
snacks are FREE!II SAT., SUN. 9-7. CASPERSON, 1303 $7.95 A DAY & WEEKEND SPECIALS dition, 1 owner 60,000 miles, new tires, 
EVERY THURSDAY FOR YOUR EXIS. TENTIAL PLEASURE. OFFERING THE FINEST IN UVE ENTERTAINMENT,
BUCHANAN RD., NILES. AVAILABLE CALL259-8459. call234-0620 after 5:30 PM TO ROME WITH LOVE am't nolh1n· FOWL about 
HELLO THERE A.A.N. THE TURKEY BOWL COFFEE, TEA, HOMEMADE DONUTS, M,M,M,S,T,E.etc
Have 3 basketball ticket packages for FREE POPCORN AND PAT GALLAG­
HAVE YOU HUGGED YOUR PERUVIAN 

sale. Lower arena. Best ofoffer. Sell in­HER. COME DOWN AND SEE IF OuR Expenenced typ1st --reasonable OSCILLATING ATTACK BOULDER
dividually or together. Call Mike or Ted at PROFESSIONAL CONVER­Mrs. Bedford TODAY???
1181. SATIONALISTS ARE PAID ENOUGH. 
288-21079-12 EVERY THURSDAY NIGHT, ZAHM Hours BAM to 5PM CONGRATULATIONS TO DR.-TO-BE

Need ride to Cleveland for Thanksgiving. 
BASEMENT.

Lost: back pack, tan and blue. Made by GRETCHEN LOAIGI MED. SCHOOL
Call John at 8450. WyEast, Inc. call Vince x1238 CHRISTIAN LIFE COMMUNITIES or­WILL NEVER BE THE SAME. ARE YOU 
Cherie, Ca fait deja un an, e11e l'aime plus I need a ride for two to Chicago on TICKETS ganizational meeting, Monday, Novem­PSYCHED FOR THE CADAVER? (AT
que j&mais: et je n · a1 pas change d' avisl Et 
Lost: back pack, tan and blue. Made by LEAST YOU CAN LEAVE THE OVER­
ber 23, L1ttle Theater, at 7 pm. All areThursday, Nov. 26 (Turkey day). Will 
toi?SB

WyEast, Inc. call Vince xt238 invited to attend. If unable to come, call SEXED FLIES BEHINDIII) 
share the usual. If you can help me out, Penn St. ticket wanted please call Donna call Tom at8771. 
7870 for further information. LOST: 1981 DESMET JESUIT HIGH TYPING DONE ON CAMPUS BY
at6771 SHOW YOUR LADY YOU CARE 
BEFORE THE CHRISTMAS BREAK
CLASS RING. GOLD WITH INITIALS PROFESSIONAL SECRETARY. LOW
SCA IS COMING I 
RIDERS NEEDED TO BOSTON FOR Two GA basketball tickets for sale. Call WITH A MONTH OF FLOWERS. A BOU­
JMD. IF FOUND PLEASE CONTACT RATES, QUICK SERVICE. CALL X·
OCTOBER BREAK. CALL GERARD OR 

41-4872. QUET OF FLOWERS EVERY WEDNES­CHUCK, 88112.
JOHN AT 8291. 
SCA IS COMING I 1315. 
DAY FOR 4 WEEKS... DELIVEAEDIII FOUND: RING, Initials MMW, at Senior 
for sale: 2 GA miami tixs call 2948 WEDNESDAYS FLOWERS 289-121 t. Need ride to Buffalo for Thanksgiving. 
SCA IS COMING I Suzanne, HAOLI LAHANAUI I 8-finally I Bar, 13 Oct: call Betsy 277-6082. With love & aloha, Lyndy P.S. I hope you 
Call Kevin at 3575 

FOR SALE:2 M1ami-ND Tix.CHEAP.Call PART OR FULL TIME WORK FROM 
What can th1s one-armed bandit" say were suprisedl FOUND: I blue & white HOHNER 
Budx1502 HOME, PROCESSING MAIL OR NEED RIDERS TO IDAHO-XMAS 
about a bunch of crazed individuals who TYPING. EXPERIENCE UNNECES­
KAZOO. If you want It back, cough up one rise above the masses? I thank you all hke yes folks, it's time to ii;~ ~P ttl~ d~atti sta~
BREAK, 1-WAY. CALL272-5239. 4 MIAMI G AS--BOXES BEHIND NO SARY. EXCELLENT INCOME POTEN­buck for you know what to you know who. 
a Banshee for getting me th•u this yearly agam..
BENCH. CALL MARK 3403 TIAL. INFORMATION, SEND RIDERS NEEDED TO DOWNTOWN 
ordeal. My parents know me as "HeyFOUND: 1 blue and gold HOHNER 
STAMPED, SELF-ADDRESSED EN­CHICAGO, DROPOFF AT UNION STA­
You" but my friends call me JUNK LEONARD VERCELLOTTI IS LEAVING KAZOO. If you want 11 back, cough up one SOON--OH NO--HOW WILL THE OB­
Need UCLA GA's Call John 1809 VELOPE. P.O. BOX 44585-ND, LOS TION. LEAVING WEDNESDAY NOON. 
OLIVOS STA., PHOENIX, AZ 85084. 
buck for you know what tc you know who. SERVER SURVIVE??
Take the long way home..
CALL PAUL 85011. TICKETS FOR THE ROLLING STONES/SA NT ANA/IGGY POP CON­PAT GALLAGHER.... EVER WONDER Why not? 
Need nde to St. Louis and back forT-day. CERT DEC. 1 AT PONTIAC SIL­Peep.
REWARD FOR RETURN OF PEARL­If FRANCIS COPPOLA EVER WROTE 
Will share expenses and driv1ng. Call Lou VEROOME ARE NOW ON SALE AT Peep Heap. J.J.D.: Only 3 more days of baing 171 The
DIAMOND RING LOST NOV. 13 BE­A PAPER ON "NATTY" HAWTHORNE. 
at 1428. Thank you. RIVER CITY RECORDS, 50970 U.S. 31
TWEEN HOWARD AND FARLEY. WHY DON'T YOU JUST GO TO LAW t 7 jokes were GREAT while they lasted, N. SOME SPACES ARE STILL
PLEASE CALL KATIE x6723 SCHOOL UKE EVERYBODY ELSE. 
right?. Have wild times In NY--whera

AIDE NEEDED FOR 2 TO THE AVAILABLE ON THE SIXTH BUS FOR EVERYONE KNOWS THAT THERE'S DON'T PANIC you're legal. Have a STUPENDOUS B.
DETROIT/FERNDALE AREA OVER THE CHARTER BUS PACKAGE TO THE NO LIFE AFTER FILM SCHOOLIII SIN­dayII JK&SP 8/26/8 t
THANKSGIVING BREAK. WILL SHARE ROLLING STONES CONCERT. USUAL PLUS SUPPLY THE COOKIES II! PACKAGE INCLUDES ROUND-TRIP 
WINDSURFER, FLY IT Ill CERELY ... PAULINE KAEL. 
Cheryl, BOSTON 1111 Need several riders for
PLEASE CALL 8031 BUS TRANSPORTATION FROM RIVER How was your weekend? Were 5 guys ThanksgiVIng break, Leav1ng Tuesday.
I found a camera Wednesday near the CITY TO PONTIAC. REFRESHMENTS WHO IS GERADO VELEZ AND WHY IS enough for you? 
(That's tomorrow!) Call Dan 1153 Need ride to NORTHERN VIRGINIA for

ACC. If you think 11 1s yours, call Dave ON BUS AND TICKET TO CONCERT. HE SAYING ALL THESE TERRIBLE Much Funl 
Thanksgiving. Can leave Tuesday after­

( 1 927) and give your 1nrt1als. FOR MOREINFORMATION, CALL 277-THINGS ABOUT ME. 
An Attestment to the World: 

noon. Will share the usuals. Please call 4242. Jim at 1763. THE PINGA COMES OF AGEl 
BARBARA J. COSGROVE is a highly in­telligent, smart person I TONY WALTON... CAN JAMES LOVE AND KISSES LOST: A 58-C Texas Instrument Cal­M.J.C.

Desperately need ride to Rochester N Y WRIGHT PLAY PIANO? CAN TAL FAR­THE SPACE ACADEMY 
culator about a week ago maybe 1n the 
for Thanksgiving. Will share driving and LOW WRITE POETRY? WAS MONK AND CARLl The Restless Shade of Moose Control ISCell Biology Class. If found, please call 
expenses. Call Steve 8265 EVER EDITOR OF THE COLLEGE d.
6737 or return to 143 Farley Hall. 
PERSONALS near ... I can hear the footsteps .
NEWSPAPER? THE HALLOWED KNOCK KNOCK Help -My daughter's pregnant, my wile HALLS OF MICHIGAN ARE CALLING who's there? 
0: Who reports news In the Yukon? 

has VD, and my 19th birthday is the 27th. YOU. WILL YOU ANSWER? WILL YOU IHADALOST LADIES' BROWN OEARSKIN A: The moose media, of course . 
Must get home for ThanksgiVIng to ."SIMON" PUT THE IVY LEAGUE ON HOLD? WILL ihadawho? Hi, Shirley. Yippee! 
GLOVES WITH RABBIT FUR LINING-­
Philadelphia area, Can leave anytime the touching story of a Father and his I HAD A GREAT TIME SATURDAY The Restless Shade ol Moose Control 
OLD AND MENDED--NO QUESTIONS YOU TAKE ME WITH YOU? 
Wednesday and will share expenses. Call mouse... SINCERELY, GEAADO VELEZ. LINDAIII THANKS AGAIN I MIKE 1427. 
WILL BE ASKED--288-9322 
lh" The IJhsen•er and I 'be ..tssodaled Press 

Nine Notre Dame wrestlersplaced in the top four 
in their weight class as the Fighting Irish wrestling team took third. in the Michiana Aurumn Tournament on Saturday. Phil Batey once again was the highest individual placer as he won the title at 165-lbs. Mark Fisher, wrestling as an unattached entry in an open division, placed second at 126 pounds. Joe Agostino ( 142-lbs. ). John Bag­nasco( I34lbs. ), and. Joe Andreetti (I 18-lbs.) all finished in third place. Shawn Moloney ( 190-lbs. ), Brian Erard ( 158-lbs. ),Jim Calcag­nini ( 150-lbs. ), and Curt Rood( 142-lbs.) each claimed fourth. Triton won the team title, while Taylor edged Notre Dame for second by 
fhe margin of one match. -The Observer 
Gregory Keiser has been traded from the Detroit Pis­tons to the Seattle Supersonics for guard Vinnie Johnson. Keiser, a forward, played for the Mi<.:higan State Spartans when they won the 1979 NCAA basketball cham-pionship. -AP 
The SMC Turkey Trot is scheduled for today at 4 
p.m. The three-mile run is open to everyone in the Saint Mary's com­munity. First, second and third place prizes will be presented in each of these three categories: students, male staff/faculty and female staff/faculty. Interested runners must register by bringing the $1 entry fee to the Angela Athletic Facility before Friday. For more in­formation, contact Mr. Dillon at 4182 (SMC). -The Observer 
Big boat sailorswith racing experience on medium to large size boats are needed by the Notre Dame Sailing Club. Call Phil Reynolds at 233-3411 for more details -The Observer 
The ND-SMC ski team wants everyone interested in having a spot on the team this year to pick up their turtlenecks from Sean Chandler ( 1001 Flanner, x1416) before Thanksgiving break to sell for the fundraising. Sweatshirts are now available from Barry Tharp ( 1 104 Flanner x 1 5 70). -The Obseroer 
Yugoslavia whipped Luxemborg, 5-0, Saturday to gain the World Cup soccer finals scheduled to be played in Spain next year. -AP 

Friday'a Game 
Notre Dame 6, Ohio State 4 

Ohio State 1 3 0 ­
Notre Dame 0 5 .1 -6 
Scoring 

FIRST PERIOD-1, OSU, Browne, 2, (Cosgrove, 
Collins), 9:32. Penalties-Brown, NO, (h1gh sticking, 
minor) 1:23. Ricci, NO. (elbowing, minor) 5:22. 
Sheridan, OSU. (holding, minor) 10:07. Kobryn, 
OSU, (charging, major) 16:49. Perry, ND, (roughing, 
minor) 20:00. Perry, NO, (roughing, m1nor) 20:00. 
Mandich, OSU, (roughing, minor) 20:00. Mand1ch, 
OSU, (roughing, m1nor) 20:00. 
SECOND PERIOD -2, NO, Bjork, 7, (Regan, 
Brown), 118. 3, NO, Bjork, 8, (Rothstein), 1:31. 4, 
NO, Brown. 2. (Bjork, Higgins), 6:32. 5, OSU, Paul 
Pooley, 5, (Marson, Browne), 9:10. 6, OSU, Paul 
Pooley, 6, (Marson, Browne), 13:10.7, NO, Schmidt, 
4, (Doman), 15:21. 8, OSU, Amoruso. 4, (Browne, 
Macoun), 18:51. 9, NO, Poulin, 3, (Perry, Bowie), 
1:06. Penalties -Mandich, OSU, (hooking, m1nor) 
4:40. Brown, NO, (hooking. minor) 9:00. NO, Schmidt, (elbowing, minor) 12:17. Deasey, NO, (hooking, minor) 14:33. 
THIRD PERIOD -10. NO, Logan, 8, (Laurion), 
19:51. Penalties-Bjork, NO, (tripping, m1nor) 1:04. Deasey, NO, (hooking, minor) 4:57. Poulin, NO, (roughing, minor) 8:20. Rousseau. OSU, (roughing, minor) 8:20. Bench, OSU, (too many men) 8:35. Logan, NO, (tnpping, minor) 10:12. Schmidt, NO, (slashing, minor) 16:15. Mandich, OSU. (slashing, minor) 16:15. Brown, NO, (high sticking, minor) 
17:24. 

Shots on goal: 
Oh1o State 7 11 11 -29 
Notre Dame 14 7 5 -26 
Goaltenders -Ohio Stale, Damralh, Dougan. Notre Dame, Laurion. A -1,750 
Saturday• a Game Notre Dame 6, Ohio State 3 Ohio State 1 1 1 -3 Notre Dame 2 4 o -6 Scoring 
FIRST PERIOD -1, OSU, Browne, 3, (Marson), 
4:44. 2, ND, Rothstein, 6, (Bowie, Schmidt), 9:42. 3, NO, Perry, 10, (Poulin, Brown), 15:32. Penalties­Farley, OSU, (hooking, minor) 1:35. Cox, NO, (hooking, minor) 4:40. Cosgrove, OSU, (holdmg, minor) 7:52. Brown, ND, (roughing, minor) 9:04. Man­dich, OSU, (roughing, minor) 9:04. Macoun, OSU, (elbowing, m1nor) 9:27. Bjork, ND, (hooking, minor) 
10:45. Lucia, NO, (high sticking, minor) 13:30. Paul Pooley, OSU, (high sticking, minor) 13:30. Macoun, OSU, (high sticking, minor) 17:47. Higgins, NO, (high sticking, minor) t 7:47. 
SECOND PERIOD-4, NO, Perry, 10, (Rothstein, Poulin), 1:44. 5, OSU, Marson, 7, (Mandich, Macoun), 11:12.6, NO, Lucia, t, (Regan, Schmidt), 15:21.7, ND, Chapman, 3, (Bellomy, Higgins), 18:06. 8, NO, Rothstein, 7, (Perry, Poulin), 19:50. Penalties -Kobryn, OSU , (slash1ng, minor) :52. Ricci, ND, (roughing, minor) 3:08. Reilly, ND, (roughing, minor) 
3:08. Lucia, NO, (roughing, minor) 3:08. Lucia, NO, (high sticking, minor) 3:08. Cosgrove, OSU, (roughing, minor) 3:08. Amoruso, OSU, (roughing, m1nor) 3:08. Macoun, OSU, (roughing, minor) 3:Q8. Macoun, OSU, (high sticking, minor) 3:08. Rousseau, 
OSU, (tripping, minor) 3:45" Higgins, NO, 
(unnecessary roughness, m1nor) 11:07. Mandich, 
OSU, (hooking, minor) 19:06. 
THIRD PERIOD-14, OSU, Browne, 3, (Perry 
Pooley, Marson), 12:49. Penalties-Bechtel, OSU, 
(tnpping, mmor) 6:10. Chapman, NO, (high sticking, 
m1nor) 12:21. Reilly. NO, (unnecessary roughness, 
m1nor) 20:00. Malcoun, OSU, (unnecessary rough­
ness, minor) 20:00. 
Shots on goal: 
OhioState 9 14 14 -37 
Notre Dame 15 7 .• 5 -27 
Goaltenders-Oh1o Stale, Dougan. Notre Dame, .!:aurion. A-2,200 

Saturday'a Game 
Notre Dame  7  7  7  0  21  
Penn State  14  3  0  7  24  
Scoring  

PSU-Jon Withams 4 run (Bnan Franco kick) ND-Phil Carter t run (Harry Oliver k1ck) PSU-Todd Blackledge 1 run (Franco kick) PSU-FG Franco 27 ND-Tony Hunter 17 pass from Blan K1el (Oliver 
kick) NO -John Sweeney 4 pass from K1el (Oliver kick) PSU-Blackledge 1 run (Franco kick) 
NO PSU First downs 13 16 Rush1ng attempts 37 59 
Net Yards Rushing 108 293 Net Yards Passing 184 66 Passes camp-attempted 14-30 6-14­Had Intercepted 0 0 Total Net Yards 292 359 Fumbles-lost 1-t 2-1 Penalties-yards 4-27 3-25 Punts-average 8-35 8-39 Individual Leadera 
RUSHING-Notre Dame: Ph1l Carter 20-58: Greg Belli 0-30: John Sweeney 4-9: Larry Moriart t -7: Joe Howard 1-5; Blair Kielt-m1nus 1; Penn State: Jon Wil­liams 27-192: Tom Barr 12-50: Curt Warner 4-12: Todd Blackled 10-19: Tony Mumford 2-minus 1: Frank Rocco 1-mmus 1; Kenny Jackson t-7: 
PASSING-Notre Dame: Blair Kiel13-28-1, 183: Greg Bellt-1-0, 1: Joe Howard 0-1-0,0; Penn State: Todd Blackrid 6-13-1, 66: Tom Barr0-1-0,0: 
RECEIVING-Notre Dame: Joe Howard 4-102; Tony Hunter 4-36; John Sweeney 3-28; Greg Bell2­
17: Blair Kielt-1 : Penn Stale: Gregg Garrity 2-42; Jon Williams 2-27; Kenny Jackson 1-mmus 1: Tom Barr t-minus2; 
Attendance -84,175 
Sunday'a Gamea Cincinnati 38, Denver 21 Detroit 23,' Chicago 7 Tampa Bay 37, Green Bay 3 Buffalo 20, New England 17 New Orleans 27, Houston 24 New York Giants 20, Philadelphia 10 Pittsburgh 32, Cleveland 10 Kansas City 40, Seattle 13 St. Louis 35, Baltimore 24 San Diego 55, Oakland 21 
New York Jets 16, Miami 15 San Francisco 33, Los Angeles 31 Dallas 24, Washington 1 0 
Monday'a Game Minnesota at Atlanta 
Frlday'a Game Yugoalavla 81, Notre Dame 78 
RED STAR (81)-M11ivajs8 0 0-0 0, Kovacevic 4 0-0 8, Milekic 0 0-0 0, Aadovic 1 4-6 6, Karadz1c 5 1-5 1t, Nikolic 8 2-3 18, Jokanovic 1 0-0 2, Jankovic 1 2-3 4, Bogoslavjev 91-5 21, Salat51-1 11. 
IRISH (78) -Varner 7 3-3 17, Sluby 7 0-1 t 4, Spencer 0 1-21, Mitchell 0 0-0 0, Paxson 7 15-16 29, Duff 0 I -2 I, Rowan 2 0-0 4, Rucker 4 2-2 I0. 
FOULED OUT -Nikolic, Bogoslavjev, Mitchell, Duff. TOTAL FOULS-Yugoslavia 23, Notre Dame 24.A-11,345 
Bowl pairings 
RoM Bowl January 1 Iowa vs. Wash1ngton Orange Bowl January 1 Clemson vs. Nebraska Sugar Bowl January 1 Pittsburgh vs. Georg1a Cotton Bowl January1 Texas vs. Alabama Holiday Bowl Dec:ember11 Washington State vs. Brigham Young Bluebonnet Bowl December31 Michigan vs. UCLA Tangerine Bowl December 211 Southern Miss1ss1ppi Gator Bowl Dacember28 
Arkansas vs. North Carolina Uberty Bowl Dacember30 
Ohio State vs. Navy FleataBowl January1 Penn State vs. Southern Cal 
Independence Bowl December 12 Oklahoma State vs. Texas A & M Garden State Bowl December 13 Wisconsin vs. Tennessee PaachBowl December 31 West Virgima vs. Flonda.Aa. State Hall of Fame Bowl December 31 MiSSISSippi State vs. TBA California Bowl December 12 Toledo vs. San Jose State Blue-Gray Claaalc December 12 North vs. South All-Stars ShrlneGama January II 
East vs. West All-Stars Hula Bowl January II 
East vs. West All-Stars Japan Bowl J•nuary 111 
All Stars 

-------------~--~~~~~~--------------------------aiJ 
r-------­
The Observer -Sports Monday, October 23, 1981-page 8 
• • • Yugoslavians 
continuedfrom page 12 
to the Yugoslavians as the Irish played catch up ball in the waning moments. Layups by Predrag Bogos­lavjev and Branko Kovacevic and a pair of free throws by Slobodan Nikolic gave the Red Star team an in­surmountable 76-67 lead with only 
I:22 remaining in the contest. 
Twenty turnovers, twelve in the second half, marked the demise of the Irish fortunes. Freshman Dan Duff was ineffective as a replace­ment for Mitchell, turning the ball over five times in his briefstint. 
"Dan just has to learn that you can't make a twenty-five foot entry pass. This game was a learning ex­perience. It's just a matter now ofsit­ting down with the team, looking at the tape of the game and analyzing the individual performances," added Phelps. 
The major weakness appeared to be the lack ofa conceptualized team uefense. Several times the Yugos­lavians beat their men to the basket and the Irish had little or no weak sic' ~ help. When there was help, it tended to be in the form of a shot 
~ blocking effort insteac of defensive positioning. ''I'm not sure how we are going to rebound against the bigger teams," said Phelps. "We've been working on rebounding and we've got to come up with a defense. You've got to understand that this is a sophomore-junior oriented team and there's a lot ofgrowing up to do and injuries to overcome. But we'll figure it out. Just get ready for a dif­ferent style of play from last year. Our seven-footer this year will be 
our home crowd." 
Early season injuries are depleting an already sparse Irish roster. Twenty seconds into the game, Sluby crashed into the folding chairs in the band area cutting and bruising his left shoulder. However, Sluby returned moments later after icing the bruise and played effectively hit­ting seven of his ten field goal at­tempts. 
Varner suffered a dislocated toe during the frantic final moments and will remain sidelined for seven to ten days. Notre Dame's only authen­tic center, Tim Andree, is recovering from an ankle injury slightly ahead of schedule and is expected to practice Thursday. 

Irish Items -Free throw shoot­ing was a bright spot for the Irish connecting on nearly 85/, most of which was contributed by Paxson... Slick shooting Slobodan Nikolic came off the bench and scored 18 points including 8 of 9 from the field...Another non-starter, Predrag Bogoslavjev led the Red Star team with 2I poims...The Yugoslavians seem to shoot better with defensive pressure hitting only 56/ of their free throws. 
Purdue names Burtnett head football coach 
but I've asked them all to stay on," WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. (AP) -Burtnett said. Leon Burtnett, 38, defensive coor­
He said the Boilermakers of the dinator at Purdue University for the future would be "very, very pro past five years, was named head foot­oriented." ball coach yesterday, replacing Jim The new Purdue coach said he Young. prefers an offense that includes pas­
Young, who announced his retire­sing 60 percent of the time, con­ment as coach last week, will trasted with Young's preferred ratio become fulltime associate athletic oftwo runs to every pass. 
director. Burtnett listed his No.1 priority as 
Burtnett came to Purdue in 1977 retaining the players' currently on after a year as assistant coach at the campus. Recruiting was his Michigan State. He previously was second priority. an assistant at San Jose State, 
"I feel I'm very strong in this area Wyoming, Washington State, Mon­
(recruiting). It's still an excitingtana State and Colorado State. 
thing for me to go into the home ofa .Announcement of Burtnett's ap­
(high school) senior and try to inter­pointment was made yesterday at a 
est him in coming to our school." news conference in Mackey Arena. 
Improving the defensive secon­Burtnett said all coaches on the dary is an immediate goal of Leon Purdue staffwould be retained. 
Burtnett, who was named Purdue "We're a close family. The exact University's 30th football coach at a duties of each coach could change, Sunday new.; conference. 

CecilRuckerleaps high into the airattempting to block a shot by the Yugoslavians. Rucker also scored 10 points in the contest, but all to no avail, as the Belgrade Red Star squad defeated the Irish, 81-76. Injuries-to Irish regulars Tom Sluby and Bill Varner didn't help Notre Dame's cause. (photo by Linda Shanahan) 

UNLIMITED MILEAGE 

219/234-3712 
and we'll have it ready for you starting November 20. 
Rates are not discountable. Gasoline, applicable taxes, optional Collision Damage Waiver and Personal Accident Insurance are not included. No charge for mileage. All cars subject to availability. Cars must be returned to the renting location no later than November 30, 1981 or higher published Hertz Daily Standard Unlimited Mileage Rates will apply to the entire rental period, and a drop charge will alsoapply. Ask for complete details. 

#1 furEveryone. 

Larg~r cars available at higher rates. HERTZ RENTS FORDS AND OTHER FINE CARS 

• • • Gridders 


and deflected it, but I was able to 
continued from page 12 
keep an eye on the ball and catch it." in tne third period led to fullback "Right before the play started, I John Sweeney's 4-yard touchdown knew the ball was coming my way grab, his first at Notre Dame. and I said a little prayer: 'Lord, let me 
"When it happened, I couldn't do well.' I swear, if we ran that play believe it," said the jubilant junior. I00 more times, I probablywouldn't "The defender was in front of me have made the catch (with the 
f'c:-CILA 
• Christmas Cards 5 for S 1.00 


On Sale , Next Week Only 
------·---~--·......-· Nov. 30-Dec. 3 ~ Library 6:00-9:00 
Christmas Dining Halls 5:00-6:30 
is Here!
LaFortune 12:15-1:15 
deflection)." 
The Irish threatened to widen their lead when they moved to PSU's four-yard line with about 10 minutes left in the game. On fourth and inches, tailback Greg Bell tried to leap the pile-up, but was denied the gain. 
"It was a great call," Paterno stated. "It's just one of those things. You make it or you don't." 
_Faust said a field goal at that point was out of the question. "We're not out there to tie, we're out there to win. A field goal would've just set it up for a tie, and they'd have probably gone for two anyway. With a half yard to go, you've got to go out there for the win." 
"On the goal line stand, we just knew we had to get down on them, fire out, and stop them right there," said Penn State defensive end Rich D'Amico. "We didn't want another blowout like we had against Alabama. We wanted the seniors to go out with their heads up and with a victory." 
Though victory escaped the Irish for the fifth time this year, it was a game they could walk away from with their heads up, too. 
"Notre Dame is a very fine football team," praised Paterno. "They're su­perior defensively and they execute very well. It's one of those games where you hate to see a team lose." 
"We wanted to beat Penn State to show people our last three wins weren't flukes," Sweeney said. "But I think we gained some respectability today." 
"It was a heck of a game for the· spectators and a heartbreaker for the coaches," added Faust. "I can't fault our kids. I'd just like to be on the other side once in a while." 


......

The Observer -Sports Monday, October 23, 1981 -page 9 
Ferguson runninghis \\Tay back 
By SKIP DESJARDIN Joe Ferguson hit Roland Hooks AssoduteSports Editor with a desparation pass to the · endzonc. and Butlalo shocked New ORCHARD PARK, NY -It's been England 20-17. The Bills went 73 afrustrating yC'ar tlJr Vagas ferguson. yards on two plays to pull out the 
victory.

Just a year ago, hews a mainstay in 
Overshadowed by the shocking

the New England Patriots' starting 
loss and by the 2-1 0 record -at

lineup. Sam Cunningham was sitting 
least for ferguson -was the fact

the season out in a contract dispute:. 
that he may havt· won his job back.

Andy Johnson was out for the year 
"It's no consolation," he insists.

with an injury. Chul·k Foreman was 
"It's not like I'm back in the lineup

but a shadow of what ht:'d bc:en 
for,good. Tony just had a bad game."

during his glory years at Minnc:sora. 
That's putting it diplomatically.

"Vagas was the guy we went to 
On the Patriots' second posses­

when we needed three or four surt: 
sion. Collins fumbled on the first

yards," says one club otlicial. "lie 
play from scrimmage.

was what football fans in New 
The next time he carried the ball, .

England call a 'bread-and-butter 
Collins fumbled again, and never

guy.' When we had to have the yards, 
returned to the lineup.

Ferguson would get them." 
"Everybody's entitled to a bad

As the 1981-82 season opened, 
game," says Ferguson, who came off

however, Ferguson was on the 
the bench to lead New England in

bench. An ankle injury suffered in 
rushing. "I've had a few myself.

one ofthe Patriots' preseason games 
Those things happen sometimes. 

was the culprit. 
The less said about them, the bet­Penn State's Todd Blackledge scrambles for a stay, 24-2/. (photo byjohn Macor) 
At first. 
touchdown that put the Nittany Lions ahead to
ter."

The new culprit is Tony Collins, a 
Perhaps it's the frustration, but

rookie out of East Carolina. He took 
Ferguson can't help talking about 

over the job as the Patriots starting 
Dillon wins 
them.

running back when Ferguson was 
"I'm trying," he says. "I go out

hurt, and wouldn't let go. His 751 
there every day and I do my best. Ap­

yards rushing leads the team and 
futerhall championship decided 
parently, it isn't enough."

he's one of the few bright spots in 
Patriot officials insist that the

Foxboro during this 2-10 season. 
most of the day. Although Ott­facemasking penalty in the drive
ankle injury has prevented Fer­ByWILLHARE
Sunday's game here against the 
Campus maintained ball control in which only added to the Dillon fire. 
guson's return, but he doesn't buy Sports Writer 
Buffalo Bills was typical of New the first half, neither team 
Off-Campus desperately tried one
that excuse.

England's misfortunes this year. 
"I've been feeling good for two threatened until the fourth quarter. more time on offense bur Dillon's months," he says. The Big Red from Dillon Hall The play that perhaps turned middle linebacker Mike McGuire around the game for Dillon was a 42-picked off another errant Huffman
"Sure, it's tough not playing, but rallied for two fourth quarter touch­yard flea flicker from Yogi Spence to pass to sew up the contest. McGuire,
what can you do? Tony's having a downs to captured the interhall 
Bob Wicke. The bomb went to the
great season. That's just the way it football championship yesterday, by along with defensive endsJoe Boyle 
Off-Campus 19-yard line, and three and Larry Andreini, were the key
goes. I can't do much more about it; I defeating the Off-Campus Raiders, 
plays later, it pass from Kevin Kenny. figures in the Dillon shui:out. 
just work hard, and take things one 14-0, at frozen Cartier Field. 
Hart Green's point-after made it 7-0 With the victory, Dillon com­
step at a time." The game was scoreless for three' Dillon, with about six minutes left in pleted a perfect 6-0 season. As Big
While there was very little for quarters and resembled an old NFL the game. Red Coach Marty Finan said after the
Notre Dame fans to cheer about last championship game played at Lam­
"It was the first time we used the game, "They worked hard all year.
weekend, there was cause to take beau Field in Green Bay or Soldier (flea-flicker) play," Spence noted. We all felt we worked too hard all
heart. AU is not lost. Field in Chicago. The sub-freezing Vagas Ferguson is on the way temperatures and icy ground shut "We designed it just this week." season to let a big play beat us in the Dillon's furthest penetration prior second half. All season long our
back. down both teams' offensive attacks to the flea-flicker was to the Off­defense bent a little but didn't Campus 45-yard line. In all, the drive break." went 61 yards in just four plays. On the play following the touch­
Dillon again showed the strong down, Raider quarterback Matt Huf­
defense it did all season. On the year, fman was intercepted by freshman 
Dillon allowed just eight points. Brian Broucek. Huffman thought 
"Our defense allowed us to stick that play was the key to the game. "I 
with them," Finan noted. "They thought we had a pretty good just two
(Off-Campus) had goodchance to drive in the fourth quar­
plays in the first half Mike McGuire ter," Huffman said. "But I threw that 
was the leader for us." interception and that just caused a letdown for our defense." Leading rushers in the game were Following the interception, Big McMahon, who gained 51 yards on Red tailback Dave McMahon spear­13 carries and the Raiders' Willie headed the drive for the final tally. Sotis, who ran the ball 14 times for McMahon's carries in the five-play, 45 yards. Reserve tailback Mike Dan­53-yard attack included a 21-yard durand was another key off of the run and a four-yard burst off tackle Dillon bench, as he carried the ball for the second Dillon touchdown six times for 27 yards. Bob Wicke, with I:30 remaining. The frustration who has been a standout for Dillon of the Off-Campus defense was fur­all season long, finished with four ther exemplified by a costly receptions for 62 yards. 
Brent Chapman and an unidentified Ohio swept the physical weekend series against the State player vie for a loose puck. Notre Dame Buckeyes. (photo by Linda Shanahan) 



Shanghai Restaurant in Roseland M onRolian Barbeque Szechuan and Mandarin style dinners Sunday 4pm to 9pm 
Mon-Thurs 11:30am to 9:30pm Fri-Sat 11: 30am to 10:30pm CARRY OUT SERVICE Luncheon Buffet 

A II you can eat $3.75 1:30am to 2: 
r '"" .1. ~
GRAND OPENING SPECIALS! 
;j South Bend's 
newest & finest
---FREE--...,
.--FREE­
II
Gift To 

Merchandise Drawing 
~ 

in cuisine. 
'
Everyone! No Purchase Necessary! 

~10% OFF­On All Shoes And Clothing  ~15% OFF­All Tennis & Racquetball Equip.  Specials Good Now thru Dec. 6  Dine among the antiqueand enjoy our view of the new downtown!  s, ' -+-....-,  
Featuring: Nike Adidas Bill Rodgers  
Saucony Puma New Balance  ,  
In University Commons , <"'•;;r.7•;;:ss•,,.l fl-, Mon.·Sal10·9 St•n.12·5:30 ~~\..Visa & MasterCard Welcome  • -. ~JS ~\.~ (D0~ • )(  ,., ~  
 
....  
------­ --·-­ 
..  

------~--------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 


The Observer-Sports Monday, October 2 3, 1981 -page 10 
l . Alumni pressure 
I Big ones give Paterno trouble 
"'' 

..\. 
.... 
_,... 
Dtllon defeated Off-Campus, 14-0, yesterday in the men's i~ter­hall football championship. See story on page 9. (photo by Lmda Shanahan) 
EVERYTHING 
YOU 
HEAR 
IS 
TRUE. 

.. I am truly amazed with the total clarity and lifelikeness that is coming from these records. I would almost swear that Boz Scaggs and Michael Jackson were standing next to me doing their songs in person." 
.. This record is one ofthe best recordings I have ever heard. I found the tonal balance and musicality to compare equally with any ofiny recordings from Sheffield Lab or Mobil Fidelity. The pressing wasjar superior to my Nautilus records and equal to my Thlarc and Sheffields... 
.. Thank you for greatly satisfyingthis audiophile's dream." 
"I'mabsolutely thrilled with the brilliance ofthe sound and equally with the absence of hisses. pops, scratches. Bravo, and keep 'em coming." 
"Compared to ·conventional· recordings, your Mastersound recordings are far superior in frequency response. dynamic range and signal-to-noise ratio. !feel they are worth the higher price." 
.. I was truly astonished atthe sonic purity." 
"Your records are the best buy in audio today." 
Now, review them for yourself. 
CBS Mastersound'M is the 
world's largest and finest line of 
Extended Range Half-Speed 
Mastered and Digital 
recordings. For a free full-color 
catalog write to: CBS, 51 West 
52nd Street, New York, NY 
10019, Rm. # 826 
ON CBS MASTERSOUND 
RECORDS AND TAPES. 
CBS. Ma~ter~nd. ~-oretrademork~oiCBSirK t 
By CHRIS NEEDLES 
Sports Writer 

UNIVERSITY PARK, Pa.-It was a 
Penn State first down at its own 21, 
late in the third quarter. Uon tail­
back Tony Mumford took the hand­
off, but was stood up tor no gain by 
Notre Dame's Bob Crable and Tim 
Marshall. 

The boos rained (or, more ap­propriately, snowed) down on Penn State coach Joe Paterno. Here he was, trailing the Irish, 21-1 7, after charging out to a quick 17-7 ad­vantage in the first half. His offense had been stymied on its last six pos­sessions with only one first down, and Paterno was stubbornly sticking 
to his ball-control game plan. Maybe the cold finally was getting to him. 
But Paterno ignored the 84, 175 armchair quarterbacks in Beaver Stadium on Saturday. Being an op­timist, he no doubt thought they were booing the latest brutal gust of wind, or that everybody in the 

Available at your Favorite Record Store. 
crowd was from Philadelphia and it was just a primal instinct for them to boo. 
Finally, Paterno's patience paid off, thanks to the marvelous running ofsophomore tailbackJonathan Wil­liams. After two key defensive plays -a goal line stand and an intercep­tion -stopped Irish scoring drives that would have put the game away, Williams, who gained 192 yards on the day replacing the injured Curt Warner, ran for 46 yards on four 
carries to pace the Lions' winning 82-yard touchdown drive in the fourth quarter. Penn State went on to beat the Irish, 24-21, and Paterno had his vindication. 
joe Paterno has been well revered in his 16 seasons at Penn State. Satur­day's win places him one short ofthe 1 50-victory mark for his career. But, in all those years of prosperity and bowl bids, he has one rap against him -he can't win the big game. 
The examples are numerous: the 1979 Sugar Bowl ( 14-7 Joss to 
Alabama for the national champion­
ship); the 1976 Gator Bowl ( 20-9 
loss to the Irish); last year's 14-9loss 
to Pitt; and, most recently, this 
season's losses to Miami (Fla.) and 
Alabama. The alumni and other 
natives were getting restless. Many 
fans even displayed "Joe Must Go" 
signs on Saturday. 

But, at least for this week, those 
rumblings will subside. "It was a 
great football game," said Paterno af­
ter the game. "Notre Dame is a very 
fine football team. But it was good 
for us to come from behind in the 
closing minutes with the pressure 
on. 

"We've played so many good foot­
ball teams lately. It was a great win 
for Penn State. It feels good to come 
back." 

But, by no means is Paterno out of 
the woods yet. In between the first 
and last touchdown drives, the Lions 
offense was sloppy. The most telling 
series of downs was on Penn State's 
second touchdown, when it took 
the Lions seven plays to go the final 
three yards, with quarterback Todd 
Blackledge inching in for the score. 
And it won't get much easier. Pitt, 
the nation's No. 1 team by default, 
plays host to Penn State this Saturday 
in Three Rivers Stadium. "I haven't 
even had a chance to think about 
Pitt," Paterno admitted. "They ob­
viously have a great football team 
and it should be a great game." 

However, even with a win against the Panthers, there is still the Fiesta Bowl on New Year's Day against USC. Maybe, just maybe, a three­g:,tme wining streak. to finish the season finally would knock that overweight monkey off Paterno's back. 
On Saturday, though, Paterno was content with beating the Irish, al­though Notre Dame is only a 5-5 team and played like one quite often against the Lions. "I'm especially pleased for our seniors," he said. "They've worked too hard. I didn't want them to leave this place (Beaver Stadium) with two straight losses." 
Neither did Joe Paterno. One got the impression that ifhe had, he may never have come back. 
• • • leers 
continuedfrom page 12 

that reserve strength. You go out on the ice for thirty seconds, going hard, and you have to take a rest. So the fourth line becomes a very key part ofany success." 
The pair of Irish victories gives them a 2-3 mark for confrence games this season, compared to their 2-14-1 mark for the past two years. 
This weekend the Irish will host Ferris State at the ACC. 
IRISH ITEMS -Dave Lucia's win­
ning goal last Saturday was his first of 
the season...Attendence for the two 
games was 3,950...Andy Browne, a 
right winger for Ohio State scored 
three goals and had three assists of 
the Buckeyes seven goals this 
weekend...ND's Bill Rothstein had 
two goals and two assists... Kirt Bjork 
had two goals and an assist, all in 
Friday's game...This weekend 
marked the return of senior defen­
seman john Cox and winger Dan 
Collard. 

;---··.........-.......~···········~ 
i : Rocco's Hair Styling : f 
South Bend 
Phone-233-4957 
I ~ • 

L_................................._..----~, ! 



~­


Molarity 
CIIUC.K. :X: !IOH£ SECURITY A FoPI TIIMI.~IVI!Iq ... WUAT:S DIDN f<:>R PDPcotW AND CiOINq Cill HEF!E '? 



Shoe 

The Daily Crossword 
©1981 by Chicago Tribune-N.Y. News Synd. Inc. 11/23/81 All Rights Reserved 
ACROSS 31 Store grain 1 Tennis 35 "Remember 
great the-!" 5 Soft masses 36 Joe 9 Unite 38 "-the 
13 To shelter season..." 14 Astrodome; 39 Town near 
e.g. Omaha Beach 16 Until 40 Hubbubs 17 Cordelia's 41 History 
father 42 -the mark 18 Caruso, 43 Lovers' 
for one meeting 19 -majeste 44 Silk 20 Nitwits netting 22 Sultry 45 Safeguard 24 Cranny's 47 Salad 
p,11rtner contents 26 Rebecca's 49 Learning son method 27 Kinder-51 Department gartner in France 
Friday's Solution 

52 Newport 
events 56 Thingamajig 60 Image 61 Chemical 
compound 63 Cunning 64-En-lai 65 "Superman" 66 Archibald 
of basket­ball 67 Bricklaying adjuncts 68 Stepped on It 69 Pung 
DOWN 1 Comfort 2 Butterine 3 Guard or 
admiral 4 Apache chief 5 Holmes's sidekick 6 "You-my sunshine" 
7 Parking lot mishap 8 Make night 
music 9 Caesar 10 Arabian acronym 11 Words with 
boy or girl 12 Coward 15 "-a rose" 21 Something 

forbidden 23 Criticizes 25 Grace, 
before Ranier 
27 Part of 30D 28 Johnof song 29 Storms 30 Cook a 
turkey 32 Balbo the aviator 
33 Strong 
thread 34 Kefauver 37 Sinclair 40 Worry wart 41 Humiliating 
remarks 43 Hurry 44 Edible root 46 Fatherof 
the Titans 48 Arthur's 
nephew 50 Alleviates 52 Affluent 53 Reverberate 54 Friday 
or Hope 55 Phase 57 Telephone 58 Der­
(Adenauer) 59 Colored 62 Holiday 
time 
Campus 

•I2:
IS p.m. Development Workshop, "Production Conditions in Guatemala's Key Agricultural Product: Corn" Joe Phillips, Kenneth Jameson, Larry Marsh, ND department of Economics, Memorial Library Lounge, Sponsored by Economics Department, All are welcome 

•4 
p.m. -Lecture, "The Economy and the Elec­tions of I980 and 1982", Edward R. Tufte, Yale Uni­versity, 122 Hayes Healy, Sponsored by Economics Department, All are welcome 

•s:OO 
p.m. -Ireland Program Meeting, 232 Moreau Hall, Saint Mary's College, Attendence Re­quired at this or 6:30 meeting 

•6:30 
p.m. -Ireland Program Meeting, 232 Moreau Hall, Saint Mary's College, Attendance Re­quired at this or 5:00 meeting 

•7:30 
p.m. -Film, "Cries and Whispers", Annen­berg Auditorium, J I admission 

•7:30 
p.m. Lecture, "Small Christian Communities and Liberation", Rev. Robert Pelton, C.S.C., Carroll Hall, Sponsored by Justice Educa­tion Committee, All are welcome 

•8 
p.m. -Lecture, "Reaganomics Beyond '8I ", Mark Green, Author and Washington Lobbyist, Hayes Healy Auditorium, Sponsored by United Steelworkers of America and Department of Economics, All are welcome 

•8 
p.m. -Lecture, "Northern Ireland: Past, Present and Future", Rev. Joseph McVeigh, parish priest from Northern Ireland, Memorial Library Auditorium, Sponsored by Center for Pastoral and Social Living, All are welcome 


Television Tonight 

7:00p.m. 16 MASH 22 CBS News 28 Joker's Wild 34 The MacNeiVLehrer Report 46 Believer's Voice ofVIctory 
7:30p.m. 16 All in the Family 22 Family Feud 28 Tic Tac Dough 34 Straight Talk 
8:00p.m. 16 Uule House on the Prairie 22 A Charlie Brown Thanksgiving 28 That's Incredible 34 Great Performances 46 Lester Sumrall Teaching 
8:30p.m. 22 No Man's Valley 46 Blackwood Brothers 
9:00p.m. 16 NBC Movie: "Fire on the Mountain" 22 MASH 28 NFL Football: Minnesota at Atlanta 46 Today with Lester Sumrall 
9:30p.m.  22  House Calls  
10:00p.m.  16  "Loretta  Lynn,  The  Lady...The  
Legend"  
22  Lou Grant  

34 Beginning Again 

46 Jimmy Swaggart 10:30p.m. 34 Rural America: Coming ofAge ll:OOp.m. 16 Newscenter 16 
22 22 Eyewitness News 34 The Dick Cavett Show 46 Praise The Lord 

11:30p.m. 16 Tonight Show 22 Qulnj:y/Harry 0 34 Captioned ABC News 
12:00a.m. 28 Newswatch 28 46 Lester Sumrall Teaching 
12:30a.m. 16 Tomorrow Coast To Coast 28 ABC News Nlghtline 46 Blackwood Brothers 

~
I ,___________ 

By half a yard 
Irish gridders fall short 
By KELLY SULLIVAN momentum, you go with it." (Williams) just took advantage ofhis "We didn't play very well at all, great offensive line and burned us."
Sports Writer 
and I don't know why," offered Yet earlier, Notre Dame had the UNIVERSITY PARK, Pa_ -The linebacker Bob Crable ·about the offense that was on fire. They defensive breakdowns that cost climbed from a ten point defecit to
,-, Irish will go to a bowl this season, confirmed Coach Gerry Faust. them the game. "They didn't show go up 21-1 7 on touchdowns right "We'll be in the Orange bowl next us anything different -we were just before and right after the half Mar­Friday," he acknowledged. "We'll be lousy." shall's fumble recovery set up a Kid playing Miami (Fla.)." "We prepared for both Williams .to Tony Hunter score in the second This week's nationally televised and Warner," explained tackle Tim q~rter. An interception by Crable tangle with the Hurricaines will Marshall. "There isn't much dif­
See GRIDDERS, page 8
bring Notre Dame's 1981 schedule ference between the two. He to a close after the Irish came up short against 13th ranked and Fiesta­bowl bound Penn State Saturday. 
leers sweep series 
Though it's true that quarterbacks get too much credit for a win and too much blame for a loss, a pair of 
against Buckeyes 
big plays by the two sophomore field generals were the difference in By ED KONRADY pos1te sides of the goalie near the the game's outcome. Sports Writer boards. Irish signal caller Blair Kiel, who 
The new formation, which the threw for 183 yards and a pair of The Notre Dame hockey team Irish used to confuse Ohio State, has touchdowns, also threw an untimely broke its ACC ji t nx, destroyed the a single point man at the blueline, 
.,.interception that led to PSU's win­dreaded second period slump, and the two wingers in the same spot as ning score. swept its series with Ohio State this t.efore and the addition of another "I guess it wasn't the smartest past weekend, winning a 6-3 deci­center into the slot which caused 
thing on my part," said Kiel of his sion Saturday night after stopping more disruption in front ofthe net. 
toss to Phil Carter; it was picked off the Buckeyes 6-4 on Friday. There was a lot of disruption on by third string tackle Greg Gattuso. The enmity between the teams the ice in the second period ofSatur­"They were using a 'spy technique.' was quite evident, as the two day's game as a wrestling match 
Their linebackers would come in referees called 48 penalties over the broke out among several of the and blitz and their linemen would weekend for 99 minutes ofpenace. players. drop off Phil ran a good pattern and The second period slump which "There really wasn't any fighting," I tried to lob the. ball out there to has haunted Notre Dame this season said Head Coach "Lefty" Smith. 
him, but he (Gattuso) was there." may have finally been exorcised as "Tempers have a tendency to go Revitalized by the fourth quarter in the opening game as sophomore every once in a while when you get turnover, Penn State's Todd Black­center Kin Bjork tallied twice in a real intense and sometimes it gets a 
ledge, booed for a poor performance 
minute and a half Utile bit out of whack. I didn't think earlier in the game, came through in The key to breaking the slump, 
it was anything ofany serious nature. the clutch and marched the Lions of­according to Bjork, was "We were 
I thought the referees handled it fense 82 yards, carrying the ball over going into a shell and not getting to very well." himself from the one-yard line to puck. the second period
the In "I don't approve of it (the fight­
give his team a come-from-behind tonight we went out for the first ten ing)," said Irish captain Dave Poulin, ·'•24-21 win. 
minutes and beat them to every "but if the referees were tougher,
"That quarterback delay was puck, and we controlled the game·.'' it'd take away a lot of stick work. If something we had last week," ex­In all, the Irish scored five goals in they (Ohio State) know that we're plained Coach Joe Paterno. "It that frame against goalie John Dam­going to stand up to them, since worked because Notre Dame rath, who coming into this weekend, their game is physical, and that 
doesn't use the option in their of­
was eighth in the CCHA with a 3. 12 they're not going to get away with it, fense. They don't play against it." 
goals against average. then it makes it a world ofdifference 
"Blackledge had a good game un­Senior goalkeeper Dave Laurion out there. So I think the referees did der adverse circumstances with the played well for the Irish, stopping 29 right, as long as they keep control of wind," he continued. "He made shots Friday and 3 7 blasts Saturday. the game." 
some good passes, ones to get us out Laurion led the league coming into 
Akey to the series was the play of ofa hole and he ran tough." 
this weekend's action with 233 the fourth line, Tim Reilly, Mark But the toughest running was saves. 
Doman, and Dave Lucia "Dave had done by reserve tailback Jon Wil­Of the seven shots <hat slipped 
himself an excellent weekend," said liams. Subbing for an injured Curt 
past Laurion, five were while the Smith. "Saturday, Timmy Reilly did Warner (State's leading rusher), the Irish were short-handed. It seemed 
an excellent job, got his wheels real­sophomore kept his team on keel all that Notre Dame's penalty-killing 
ly moving out there. Reilly, Doman day. He spearheaded the Irish unit allowed Ohio State to penetrate and Lucia gave us that fourth line defense when it counted most, the "box," the area in between the that we could put our there regular­. carrying three straight times for 46 
four defensemen on the ice, which ly. Not only did they keep us even, 
.,. yards on Penn State's winning drive let the Buckeyes take point-blank they got some outstanding scoring 
to set up Blackledge's plunge. Wil­shots against the Irish goalkeeper. opportunities and then Lucia even 
liams had 192 total yards, the most 
got the winning goal.gained by any back against Notre 
Powerplays played a big part in 

Notre Dame's success story. Half.of "The fourth line is very importantDame this season. 
us "Our kids thought Notre Dame 
the Irish's 12 goals came in man-up to because when you're going 
two nights in a row, your endurance might have gotten a little tired on 
situations. One possible reason for 

starts to wear down, and you have a our last drive (for the go-ahead 
this was the addition ofa new forma­

lot of specialty situations, so it score)," offered Paterno. "But that's 
tion for the power play lines. The 

becomes very important to have what football games are all about. 
most familiar set up has two 
pointman on the blue line, the cen­

Two teams are in there slugging it 
ter in the slot in front of the goalie

out, and when you get some See ICERS, page 10 
and two wingers who are on op­
-tlv 

Monday, October ~1981-page 12 


By TIM PRISTER the ·~orst shooting of his basketball Sports Writer career. Spencer was 0 for 10 from the field and Paxson's backcourt 
The Belgrade Red Star team's 81-counterpart Mike Mitchell came up 76 victory over the Fighting Irish of empty in four attempts. Notre Dame is easily explainable. Sophitmore string-bean Cecil The visiting Yugoslavians played as a Rucker pitched in with 10 points team and Notre Dame didn't. It's as and shared rebounding honors with simple as that. The Red Star team Spencer as they snared seven each. used a deliberate almost methodical Not surprisingly, it was Paxson, 
offensive approach which despite who also dished out a team leading being unspectactular was steady and six assis~ that caught the eye of very effective. Yugoslavian coach Ranko Zeravic. The Irish used full court pressure 
"That number 23 runs the show for to take an early 22-8lead sparked by Notre Dame. He speaks one lan­forward Bill Varner who scored half guage while the rest of the team of Notre Dame's points during the speaks a second language." successful stretch. But the Yugos­The Belgrade Red Star's spoke a 
lavians height advantage as well as distinct language oftheir own build­their excellent outside shooting ing their vocabulary with "defense" began to surface late in the first half as their base word. The Yugos­narrowing the deficit to four, 41-37. lavian's forced Notre Dame into 36 "I thought we played extremely percent shooting in the second half well during the first ten minutes," and a meager 43 percent for the 
said Irish coach Digger Phelps. "But game. as the game progressed it became "There's no doubt that they came obvious that we couldn't handle to play tonight because they know 
them on the boards. They remained who we are," said Phelps. patient offensively and began to get "Europeans don't dribble against the the ball inside the lane. On the other press which was effective early but hand, we started rushing our shots not late in the game. They're fun­aud before you knew it, our 14 point damentally sound, they shoot well, lead had dwindled to four.'' and they're starting to build a team 
Notre Dame's junior guard John in much the same way Russia did Paxson tossed in 29 points connect­before the boycott by touring the ing on 15 out of 16 from the line United States." 
with Varner and Tom Sluby adding The press that was instrumental in 
' 17 and 14 respectively. But unfor­h<~llooning Notre Dame's lead in the tunately the balanced scoring con­first ten minutes posed no problem tributed by Paxson, Varner and Sluby didn't rub offon the rest ofthe . See YUGOSLAVIANS, page 8 starting lineup. Starting center Barry 

... whofumbles thefootball after the hit ... ... and the ball ts recovered by theIrish. The offense converted the turnover into a touchdoum. (photos by johnMacor) 
In this series of photographs, Bob Clasby (91) tackles Penn State quarterback Todd Blackledge ... 







