----------~---~-----------------------------------------­
• • .Pizza -page 10 

VOL XV, NO. 96 


La~tnakers 
oppose 'risky' cuts 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Presi­dent Reagan's plan to hand Americans a tax cut by July 1 ran head-on into congressional realities yesterday, and some ofhis supporters predicted lawmakers may be working on the proposal the rest ofthe year. 
Many members of Congress ­especially Democrats -say they aren't against a tax cut. But they consider the Reagan proposal a big 
risk for  the economy and  a  big  
windfall for the rich.  
Reagan's  tax  bill,  which  he  

outlined Wednesday night as part ofa plan to revitalize the economy, is targeted on middle-and upper­income Americans in the hope they will invest the saving in ways that wilt I create jobs and slow infla· tion. 
Sen. Alan Cranston, D-Calit:, was setical. There is no assurance those earning $200,000 a year would make such productive invest­ments, he said. "They may just buy more fur coats and Cadillacs," Cranston suggested. 
Rep. Henry Reuss, D-Wis., pursued that theme with Treasury Secretary Donald T. Regan at a 
See TAXES, page4 

FRIDAY, FEBRUAKY 20, 1981 
SMC elects Murphy 
SBP for next year 
Eileen Murphy was elected preside.:.t of the Saint Mary's College student body yesterday, receiving 52 percent ofthe popular vote. 
Other members of the ticket. Emmie Lopez and Donna Perreault, were elected vice president for academic affairs and vice president for student affairs, respectively. 
"We're looking foreward to a really good year," Ms. Murphy said. "We've got lots ofplans for next year, and with such a long transition period, we've got plenty of time to implement them." 
The other two tickets in the race were headed by Beth Makens and Beth Mitchell. Anne Hulme and Pam Kelly ran on the Makens ticket, and Ann Bourjally and Vicki Pagnucci competed on the Mitchell team. 
No total figures were compiled for the vote, according to Margie Quinn, SMC election commissioner. The officers elected for the Senior Class are 
"We,ve got lots ofplans for nextyear, and with such a long transition period, we,ve gotplenty oftime to implement them.,, 
Marianne Callan, (president) Gay HarlesS, (vice president), Marybeth Bren­nan (secretary) and Molly Thompson (treasurer). They were elected by 56 percent of the vote. 
A run-off election will be held for the officers ofthe junior and sophomore classes. Candidates for the junior class officers are Carol Dziminski, Beth Bunker Catherine Burns and Anne Clark; and Nancy Rodgers, Mary Beth Boldt, Sarah Clark and Ann Flaherty. The Dzminski ticket won 45 percent of the vote while the Rodgers ticket won 43 percent. . For the sophomore class the run off is between Bridget Dolan, Kathy Jen­nings, Carol Mcnerney and jane Leinenweber, with 30 percent; and Kath­leen Murphy, Elaine Hocter, Denise Drake and Maureen Hughes with 43.1 percent. . . 
The campaigning for the run-off election will go from Sunday at midnight until Monday at midnight. Voting will be held on Tuesday. 



Proposals spur anger Poisonous diapers 

abroad: dollarfalls Mercury threatens babies 
LONDON (AP) -President Reagan's economic proposals to Congress, with sweeping spending cuts and a big defense increase, By RICHARD BOUJ)REAUX kidneys," said Dr. Carlos Gotelli, determine whether there was drew angry words from the Soviet Union yesterday and odler nations Associated Press Writer head of the toxicology laboratory criminal negligence by laundry ex­
reacted cautiously. at the University of Buenos Aires. ecutives or city inspectors."Too many ifs," said the authoritative Financial Times of London, BUENOS AIRES, Argentina -At "Even in the most serious cases 
Police acting on his orders in 
reflecting the attitudes ofmany European economic specialists. Most lea.'it 1,062 babies have been analyzed here, the kidneys were January closed Seven Seas,observers were quick to point out that the proposals could change on sickened in the past 12 months by not affected." 
LaPanalera and Forget, the three the way through Congress. mercury contained in a disinfec­Newspapers began reporting largest diaper laundries in Buenos 
The Soviet News agency Tass zeroed in on Reagan's proposal to tant used by community diaper the outbreak several weeks ago. Aires. Until they were allowed to 
boost defense spending by 5169.5 billion through 1986. laundries in Buenos Aires, city offi­The municipal public Health reopen early this month on a chal­It accused him of inventing figues on Soviet defense outlays "to cials say. Secretariat, which had urged lenge by their attorneys, their shut­justify the unbridled increase in in a war ofwords since the new presi-, 
Three of the city's four major laundries to stop using mercury down had posed another healthdent took office vowing a harder line in U.S.-Soviet affairs. diaper laundries were shut down 
salts last Nov. 25, banned them hazard for the city -piles of un­
The dollar fell on foreign exchanges despite days ofeuphoria before for several weeks as a result of a outright on Jan 2, along with "all washed diapers inside.Reagan announced the proposed cuts in spending and taxes. The U.S. 
judge's investigation that has sent other potentially toxic disinfec­"We inspected these establish­currency touched its highest levels in years last Monday. three laundry executives to jail tants." 
ments regularly," Dr. AlbertoDealers said the drop had little to do with the president's announce­and two others into hiding. 
For parents, the measures were Fridman, municipal director of ment. They said it came about when German and Swiss authorities painfully slow, considering that Ecology and Sanitation, said. "Buttrying to halt th slide in their currencies raised their interest rates the first cases came to light in they were registered only as 
while U.S. rates fell. FRIDAV:=============================================: February 1980. 
laundries, so we checked the 
There was little immedate government reaction from Western 
"What wasn't done at the ear­diapers for nothing more than Europe. ·================*=~F 0 CUS liest moment cannot be corrected whiteness. Nobody knew that 
In Britain, where Conservative Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher is now," said Emilio Bianchi, waiting besides washing diapers, these seen as a model for Reagan with her anti-inflation policies, there was . to testify in court. "Jailing those 
companies were treating them lukewarm comment from the vice chairman of the House of Com-l The infants have experienced responsibile isn't going to solve with disinfectants." 
mons Finance Committee. Ij skin discoloration, irritability, lack anything. My two baby boys are Before his arrest and jailing on William Waldergrave, a Conservative, said: "the first reaction is that 1 of appetite, sleeping difficulty, still sick." charges of "negligently endanger­it all looks very familiar and that it will run into the same sort of ! diarrhea, abnormal sensitivity to juvenile court Judge Oscar Her­
ing the public health," La Panalera 
problems we've found ... Public spending cuts are much easier to do ' light and other symptoms of mer­melo, who specializes in crimes in­president Jorge Young denied 
on paper than in reality." ' , cury intoxication. flicted on minors, began the using mercury. But Seven Seas A Dutch Economics Ministry official commented: "Reagan's steps 1 No fatality has been reported, investigation at the request ofdoc· 
director Fernando Quintano, also are quite in line with what he had promised all along." ! 
and doctors say they expect full tors who detected high mercury jailed, told a magazine interviewer 
There was specific criticism for Reagan's proposals to cut foreign ! recoveries in all known cases. But levels in the urine of two infant his firm "probably used" a mercuryaid -he wants the 1982 budget reduced 26 percent from S7.2 billion l the Red Cross last month had to patients at Children's Hospital. Of­salt called Fungosol PA-5. "AU the to S'5.4 billion. ~ 
import large quantities of ficials there suspected the mer­laundries ht:re use it," Quintano
The World Development Movement, a British pressure group with ; 
Cuprimine, a drug that speeds cury came from diapers supplied said. 5 I 000 members ' protested on behalfofThird World countries. I I passage ofmercury from the body, by the hospital and laundered at an If convicted, the executives "This decision means that the U.S.A. has now joined Britain as the ! after Argentina's limited supply ran 
establishment called Seven Seas. could be sentenced to three yearssecond country out of 1 7 rich industrial nations that are making J low. In the court investigation, 
in prison. The two fugitive laundrymassive foreign aid cuts during the world recession," said the moe-; 
"They worst damage phenol widened by hundreds of new executives approached authorities ment's director, john Mitchell. i mercury acetate can cause is to the medical cases, Hermelo is trying to through their lawyers. 

~-~ ..._, --•"""''"---.....
~-~­


NewsBrieb 

Friday, February 20, 1981 -page 2 
The range of the question
A 23-year-old busboy was formally charged with first-degree arson and eight counts of murder yesterday in last week's fire at the Las Vegas Hilton Hotel. The complaint alleged that Philip Bruce Cline set the fire "willfully unlawfully, maliciously and feloniously," killing eight persons. The district attorney's otftce, which filed the charges, thus rejected Cline's alleged confession in which he claimed he touched off the fire accidentally while engaged in a homosexual act near an eighth-floor elevator. The nine-count com­plaint specifically named the eight people who perished in the fire ­seven dying of asphyxiation and one from injuries suffered when he leaped to his death from a hotel window. In another development, justice court clerk Eleeen Carson said Cline's attorney had notified the court he would move to exclude news media and cameras from the courtroom during Cline's arraignment later in the day before Judge Dan Austin. She said the judge would rule on that motion before Cline is arraigned on the charges. Meanwhile, the Las Vegas Hilton reopened some 1,000 rooms ofthe hotel below the eighth floor where the killer fire broke out Feb. 10. -AP 
The Nevada Ga.tning Commission, after 
praising Frank Sinatra for his charitable works and chasti~ting the news media for reporting the entertainer's alleged ties to organized crime, voted yesterday to grant the entertainer a state gaming license. The vote was 4-1 to approve a gaming license, which Sinatra lost 18 years ago. The dissenting vote was cast by Carl Dodge, who said he was not voting against licensing Sinatra but wanted to retain a Gaming Control Board recommendation that the license be limited to six months. The license approved by the commission carried no restrictions. Commis­sion Chairman Harry Reid said eight days ago he would have voted against Sinatra but after reading the results of the control board's ex­haustive 13-month inquiry, "I have to be very candid and honest in saying that I was totally wrong." Sinatra, 65, appeared to sigh in relief after the board vote. -AP 
The ·Indiana Supreme Court's Disciplinary Commission fLied a complaint yesterday against former state Sen. Mar­tin K. Edwards of New Castle -the first step in the disciplinary process against any lawyer. Edwards, the former president pro tern of the state Senate, has been convicted in U.S. District Court on felony charges of bribery and conspiracy in connection with a legislative influence peddling scandal. He awaits trial on federal income tax charges. Under Indiana court rules, a lawyer who is convicted of a felony is almost certain to be disbarred. The contents ofthe complaint are sealed, pending the investigation. Sheldon Breskow, the commis­sion's executive secretary, fLied the complaint. Copies will be sent to Edwards at his law offices in New Castle and to his attorney, Daniel Byron, in Indianapolis. Byron represented Edwards in the federal trial. 
-AP 

The Postal Rate Commission approved yesterday a 3­cent increase for first class mail and added another two cents to the price of a dime postcard. The.increases could take effect as early as next month. The new 18-cent stamp still will be two cents short of what the Postal Service requested, and may lead the mail agency to ask for another increase.next year. Commission Chairman Lee Fritschler said the rate decision was "anti-inflationary." A dissenting commission member said the new rates will be inadequate to cover Postal Service expenses and agreed another increase is likely before long. The deci­sion will give the the Postal Service about S 1 billion less per year than the S3.75 billion it said it needs. Moreover, President Reagan is proposing cuts in the postal subsidy. Postm~ter General William F. Bolger said last week the agency may need to ask for higher rates again later this year if the rate commission did not approve the full request. 
-AP 

The Weatherclaimed more than 1,400 American lives and cost the nation well over $20 billion in 1980, a year dominated by a heat wave and drought, the government reported yesterday. In addi­tion to the widespread drought, he 1980 climate impact assesment • detailed other disasters including the eruption of Mount St. Helens, blizzards, wind and rainstorms and severe tornado outbreaks. The drought and associated heat wave affected 42 states and killed 1,318. Many of the victims were old or poor, living in non-air-conditioned apartments and homes, the report said. Losses, ·primarily in agriculture, were estimated at Sl9.3 billion. The heat led to a billion­bushel decrease in the soybean crop, damage up to 90 percent of the spring wheat crop over large areas, slowed livestock growth and the loss of thousands of acres of cover leading to increased soil erosion, the report said. Milk and hay production were also down sharply in som~ areas and water levels dropped dangerously low. The report estimated rota! climate-related damage for 1980 at S26.3 billion, including S5. 5 billion in damage done by the eruption of Mount St. Helens. -AP 
My professor was bothered -not by the question, but by its limited range. 
The trouble, he said, was not the sex discrimination suit, which was the subject ofmy question. Unlike many faculty members and all administrators, he did not squirm in his chair when I broached the topic. Why they squirm may require some exposition. 
The University has been slapped with a class action suit by a former professor, Delores Frese. Denied tenure two years ago, she sued, charging sex discrimination, and named all past and present faculty women as co­plaintiffs, or members of her "class." Half of the poten­tial class members decided not to sue; half decided to remain in the suit. The suit has a long, involved history, but finally a "settlement in principle" has been reached. No one -save the principals in the case -the judge and lawyers, and perhaps a University president or whatnot -knows what that settlement is, or how close the two parties are to reaching a decision that would make a "settlement in principle" a settlement in fact. 
The trouble, my professor said, is not the suit itself, but the kind of settlement some expect to come of it, and what that settlement would reflect about the man­ner in which the University handles its business: the business of big-time academia. 
The troublesome settle­ment would be one that granted Ms. Frese tenure before going to trial. That would end things and side­step the larger issues of sex 
sticky settlements. Ms. Frese's case may be, he said, a bad example that represents a good cause. Ms. Frese requested tenure ear­ly, after two years ofemploy­ment rather than the usual six, and requests of this 
nature have been granted only three times in the last twenty years. In those cases, the tenure was awarded to exceptional prospects for a variety of reasons. Ms. Frese's sole reason, according to an article in National Catholic Review, was domestic. What she published, he said, was a careless effort at best. He pointed to a short story, among other items, in which a papal encyclical was misnamed. She was not, he said, a careful scholar, nor is she the kind of professor the University should 
tenure. 
Ifthe University tenures her as part ofa settlement to the sex discrimination case, it will have ended the dis­crimination issue and used up one more tenured post. Both situations, he intimated, are deplorable. 
Using up on~ more position leaves a bad taste in his mouth since he has seen a number Qf professors denied tenure for some unclear, inconceivable reason. He cited numerous examples: Albert Lemay, a popular modern languages professor and contributor to com­munity education, denied tenure three years ago; Madonna Kolbenschlag, a respected communications professor and writer whose recent book Kiss Sleeping Beauty Goodbye was hailed by its publisher as one of the more solid feminist literary efforts; and composer David Isley, former head of the music department whose tenure denial my professor called "a crime." 


It will have ended the discrimination issue which, he suggested, might not be such a bad issue to raise. Dis­crimination exists and it raises its head in tasteless, per­sonal ways. The examples he gave me, like the examples other professors have used to illustrate this point, are personal, and detailing them would only serve to reveal their source. Sources do not like that prospect, mostly because of the tremendous tension that surrounds the case itselfand the entire subject ofdiscrimination, with its attendant political repecussions. 
Why do some speculate that an out of court settle­ment would entail tenuring Ms. Frese? According to my professer, a settlement of this sort .would be consis­tent with the kind ofstrategy the University seems to have employed in the last ten years to become A Pres­tigious University. This strategy relies heavily on a quantitative standard: get your_ name in print by publishing often, prove on paper your worth, and we will consider you important enough to tenure. By my professor's reckoning, this strategy has not landed the University Guggenheim Award 
winners. It has, instead, proved a fertile ground for the academic entrepeneur. The professor used this term to describe the type of academic who knows how to play by the quantitative 
and political rules in order to market himself into a tenured position. It is a type, my professor maintained, to which this university increasingly clings. 
All ofthis business points to a problem, ifnot "in fact" at least "in principle," (to use a familar legal phrase) and certainly a problem in morale. Other examples exist: the Wednesday meeting, for instance, for all tenured English professors regarding the faculty suit, out of 
which we were ushered; the device used by Dean Isabel Charles' office to convince us no such meeting was planned; and the dead silence maintained by most who were at the meeting regarding what went on. But if I have learned one thing from my professor it is this: Don't worry about the mere specifics o,fthis case. 
There are broader topics that must be addressed. 

Design Editor ...................... Scoop Sullivan 
Design Assistants .......... Kevin Korowicki 
Tom O'Connor 
Don Rodriguez Layout Staff .................... Mary Ellen Ewen 
Stephen Abowd Typesetter ............................... Bruce Oakley News Editor.............................. Lynne Daley Copy Editor ................. Mary Fran Callahan Features Layout.................... MoUy Wo111fe 
Ryan Ver Berkmoes Sports Copy Editors ........... Skip Desjardin 
Chris needles Typist ....................................... Kathy Murray Systerm Control................Stephen Brown ND Day Editor........... Ryan Ver Berkmoes SMC Day Edttor...................... John Higgins AdDesign ............................ Woody & Anne Photographer ....................... Rachel Blount 
The Obaerver (USPS 598 920) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer Is publishedby the students of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $20 per year ($1 0 per semester) by writing The Observer, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 
The Obaerver is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 


' 

15% Discount 

" to all 
N.D.-S.M.C. 
Students 


University Park Mall and Tol\Tn and Country-Mishawaka 
FQg clearing today. Panty sunny and cooler with highs in the mid 50s. Clear tonight with lows in the low to upper 30s. Mostly sunny tomorrow. Highs in the upper 50s. -AP 
.... 

. ---· 



The Observet Friday, Febrvaty 20, 1981 -page -3 

By TIM VERCELLOITI 
SeniorStaffReporter 
Astudy is currently underway to explore the possiblity of installing a sprinkler system in the Ad­ministration building, accordingto 
Physical  Plant  Director  Donald  
Dedrick.  
The  investigation,  which  
Dedrick  termed  as  "quite  far  

along," will determine, among ot­her things, the architectural effect that a sprinkler system might have on the I02 year-old structure, and the cost ofinstalling such a system. Dedrick expects to have some answers within a month. 
Dedrick explained that this study is the "logical progression" of a plan begun two years ago, aimed toward making various campus buldings less prone to fire. "We are currently putting in a sprinkler system in St. Ed's; and sys­tems have been installed in Badin, Sorin and Walsh so far. We will probably put one in Carroll Hall this summer," Dedrick stated. 
Director of Fire Safety Jack Bland confrrmed that flow tests, which determine the supply of water available for fighting frres, have been conducted in Carroll, as well as Holy Cross Hall. 
According to Dedrick, the lack of a sprinkler system in the Ad­ministration building is "not against the law." Currently, the on­ly devices capable of sensing a fire are heat detectors, installed beneath the stairwells and in 
test day for signups ... lrcL~1 officeHwed feb 25 
' -. 

... 
storage areas ofthe building. 
Bland pointed out that people can also serve as early warning sys­tems for fire. "We depend on people in a building to discover problems, and then call the fire sta­tion, or pull the fire alarm," Bland explained. He added that there are 30 new flre extinguishers in the building, as well as a number of firehoses. 
'We depend on people in a building to 
discover problems ... : 
It is difficult to estimate the speed with which a fire would spread in the Adminitration build­ing, according to Bland "The spread. of ftre is dependent on when and where it breaks out, and a lot ofother things," Bland said. 
The most recent fire in the Ad-

Tony's Shoe Repair and Moccasins 
announces a new location 1023 E. Madison 234-8999 
Hours: 8 am -4:30 pm Mon. -Sat. 
Soecial 10% Off Ask Tony about Special Student Discount 
THINK ABOUT ITI GUARANTEED TO BE A GREAT TRIP 
ministration building occurred in 1939, when flre broke out under a crawl space in the western wing of the ~tructure. After it had spread through the crawl space, the ftre was put out. "The _damage to the building was not very extensive," recalled • one member of the campus fire department who was present at the time-:­
The most destructive fire in the building's history took place on April 23, 1879. As a result, a large part ofthe university, as well as an earlier version of "the Dome," were destroyed. 
According to Dedrick, ensuring that similar catastrophes don't oc­cur in the future involves time. "We do so much each year. We have to plan. You just can't ar­bitrarily run pipes down the hall of the building," he explained. 
In the meantime, he assured, there is little need to worry. "We have an excellent fire department here on campus," Dedrick said. 



AT THE NAZZ 
frida  feb. 20  
ERIC BARTH WALLY TIMPERMAN  9:00-10:30  
TOM KOVACEVIC  10:30-?  
saturda  feb. 21  

GARCIA/MARCELLO BAND 9:00-? 
DARBY' W OPEN ON SAT. NIGHT 
PINOCCHIO'S PIZZA PARLOR 
live band--­
-----Mt 


.,.____......,..laturday 9-12 ~--~unday 6-10 $1.50-COVER CHARGE 
~--~---------------------1 
I $.50 OFF SMALL PIZZA I 
~------~------~-------~ 
: $.75 OFF MEDIUM PIZZA I 
t-----~---------------~ 
I $1.00 OFF LARGE PIZZA•
1---------------~------U
enunons 
s' expires feb. 28 
juniper 
~---·1 
Advnncement Does Not Require An Advanced Degree 
You can spP.nd another two to three years 1n graduate school or you car. tum foury .:arsofliberal arts education into a practical, chrllenging and rewarding career in just three months-as ar. Er1ployee Benefit Specialist. 
Benefits totJay amvun from 30 to 35 percent of wages and salaries. R' :cent pension legislation has created even more demand for trained specialists. As an Employee Benefit Specialist )'O:J'II be called upon to excercise your own judgement, initiative and intelligence in a challenging, professional en·1ironment with progressive responsibility. 
The Institute for r:Jnployee Benefits Training is the first and most prestigio.Js school in the United States, training Employee Benefits and Pension Specialists. This is a dynamic, gro .\'ing career field in which advancement does not require a 1 advanced degree. Our graduates are in demand by I ,w firms, pension consulting firms, insurance companies, Janks, and personnel and benefits departments· of corporations. The Institute's Placement Service will place you too. If not, you will be eligible for a substantial tuition refund. 
Furthermore, you will earn graduate credit towards a Master of Arts in Legal Studies through Antioch School of Law for all,;ourse work completed at The lnsmute. 
Ifyou're c.. seniorof high academic standing and looking for a meaningful career, contact your Placement Office for our catalog and arrange to have an interview with our repre­sentative. 
We will visit your campus on: 
recruitment will take place on st~ mary's ca11apus
The 
Institute 
235 South 17th Street Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19103
for 
(215) 732-6600

Employee Benefits Training 
(()peri\led by Para·Legal,lnc.) 
Approved by The American Bar Association Programs Earn FuU Credit Toward M.A. in Legal Stu<jies through Antioch School of Law. 
AC-003 t 
' . 
.. 
-

The Observer Friday, February 20, 1981 -page 4 
KXAS reports second attempt 
FORT WORTH, Texas (AP) ­Secret locator beacons encoded in videotapes and Christmas presents laced with electronic gadgets were pari Olan abandoned effort to stage a second rescue mission in Iran, a Fort Worth television station reported yesterday. 
~S-TV also reported that a
··7ec crash one/lftan

killed _-;; . . , a pcactice exercise i>r the ·'(~~~·abandOned second rescue ef­. fOrt. Eight Americans died and five others were injured April 25, 1980, when the first aborted rescue effort ended in an inferno on an Iranian desert. The station's-report resulted from a joint investigation by KXAS· and NBC news. An NBC spokes­
man said the network would 
broadcast the report on the NBC NightlyNews to~ay. 
KXAS said a helicopter crash Ju­ly 18, 1980, near Monticello, Utah, in which 22-year-oldJay Schatte of Fort Worth died, occurred during a training exercise for a second Iran rescue mission. 
At J'1e link, Sgt.t._-~~ ~aae, an Army spokesman, deatied'ithe crash 
' .,,. 

was in any way connected with a second rescue effort, telling Schaue's parents and reporters that the accident was part of a routine training exercise. 
"I sort of knew. I had an idea it (planning for a rescue attempt) was going on when he was out here (visiting in Fort Worth}," Schatte's father, John, told The As-
SURDAY MASSES A! SAOUD BlAB! 

campus
miniStrv 

8:15pm Saturday Bev. Robert Griffin, C.S.C. 
9:00 am Sunday Bev. James Shilts, C.S.C. 
10:10 am Sunday Bev. Marvin O'Connell 
12:15 pm Sunday Bev. Austin Fleming ·'1:15 pm Vespers Bev. Marvin O'Connell 
sociatedPress. 
Schatte said he suspected his son died training for a second mission because he had trained for the first, failed mission. 
A month after the crash, the idea for a second ~ue mission, a plan so secret that former Secretary of State Edmund Muskie did . .not knpw_ofJt, was scrubbt:d,·t!Jsr'~­
. ....,,\,.... . .
tion said. · · 
The idea was abandon,ed, the sta­
tion said, because -despite 
elaborate schemes involving sop­
histicated transmitters -planners 
could still not pinpoint the exact 
location of the hostages. 
U.S. officials were not available yesterday night for comment on the report. But several high-level Pentagon sources told the AP they recalled no exercises being held in preparation for a second raid. 
KXAS reported that Dallas Cow­boy coach Tom Landry became an unwitting cover for the govern­ment to get secretly coded video tapes into Iran. 
Landry said he sent letters and tapes ofCowboy football games to Iran. 
But the station said the tapes were rigged with electronic sig­nals recorded underneath every play, turning television sets into 
• secret locator beacons 



.Taxes 

continuedfrom page I 
loint Economic Committee 
hearing. "Are you prepared to adv­
:lcate an excise tax on such luxury 
items as fur coats an expensive 
motor cars?" Reuss asked. . There is some concern in both 
parties that passing a three-year tax 
cut now, as Reagan recommended, 
could shatter efforts to control in­
flation. 
Senate Republican Leader 
Howard Bake said at a news con­
ference that because lawmakers 
have their own ideas of whn and 
how taxes should be reduced, "It's 
possible (debate over) a tax bill 
may extend into next year." 
Rep. Dan Rostenkowski, Df-Ill., 
chairman of the House Ways and 
Means Committee, predicted his 
committee will complete action 
on the tax cut no earlier than the 
end of May. That wouldmake it all 
but impossible for Congress to 
send the completed bill to Reagan 
for his signature by the administra­
tion's june 1 target date. 
'We have to give the public and 
members of Congress a full 
hearing" before approving such a 
major bill, said House Speaker 
Thomas P. O'Neill. 
Baker said Reagan's call for 
dpspending cuts will have an 
easier time winning cop.gressional 
approval than will the tax reduc­
tions. He outlined a chedule that 
would have the Republican­
controlled Senate complete action 
within a month on tl'e fl.rst phase of 
the spending reductions. 
No one in the Democratic­controlled House would make a similar prediction. Speaker O'Neill, alleging inequities in the spending cuts that would penalize the poor, said "there'd be a revolu­tion in the House" if a efort were made to rush those proposals. 
Unless the two houses pass the Reagan program, Baker said, "people will rise up in a rage of in­dignation" in next year's elections and decide whether to fault the House or the Senate. 
The House will work flrst on the tax cuts while the Senate tackles spending reductions. But there is agreement among leaders that at some point the two issues will have to be combined into a package so that Congress will not, approve the politically popular tax reductions and forget about spend­ing cuts. 
However the program is packaged, it is unlikely to win the endorsement of those who stand to lose government benefits. The Congressional Black Caucus, for example, immediately rejected Reagan's assurances that the budget cuts won't hurt those in need. 
In fact, the caucus leaders said at a news conference, the Reagan progam strikes at the "lifelines of millions of the poorest families, and children who will become hungrier, colder and sicker than they already are." 
Coal miners who receive special aid because they suffer from black­lung disease picketed the White House yesterday. 




The Observer Friday, February 20, 1981 -page 5 
Pope reiterates social concern 


CEBU CI1Y, Philippines (AP)­Pope John Paul II, hailed by more than 1 million Filipinos in this cradle of East Asian Christianity yesterday, condemned casual sex, upheld priestly celibacy and strongly reaffirmed a Roman Cat­holic Church ban on artificial birth control, divorce, abortion and polygamy. 
Reflecting his pastoral concern, the pontiff at the same time stressed that the church "as a good mother" will aid its children "in difficult times." 
It was the pope's most com­prehensive statement on family issues since the Roman Catholic bishops discussed the subject in a month-long Vatican synod last autumn. 
he pope was greeted by huge crowds in this city where he celebrated a 2 1/2-hour Mass at the spot where the Portuguese ex­plorer Ferdinand Magellan raised the cross of Christianity for the frrst time in the Far East in 1521. 
Meanwhile, Vatican Secretary of State Agostino Casaroli said yester­day that the pope "hopes and wishes" he could visit China. On Wednesday the pope appealed for resumption of friendly relations with China. 
Relations between the Vatican and Peking were severed in 1949 when the communists took over 

Note to all sun bathers: Regardless of the time spent in the sun during our unseasonable weather, one will not be able to obtain a tan due to the su~'s position relative to the earth. (photo by Rachel Blount) 
SMC ORIENTATION '81 Artplications are now being accepted for: 
Assistant Chairman Social Chairman Publicity Chairman Off-Campus Chariman Big Sister-Little Sister Transfer Chairman Chairman General Committee 
Workers Applications are available in the Student Activities Office -166'LeMans. Deadline is Friday, Feb. 27. Sign up for an 
interview when returning applications. 

the mainland, but Vatican sources have said there had been encouraging signs in the last two years that a rapprochement can be worked out. In Peking, Catholic Bishop Michael Fu reacted without enthusiasm to the pope's overture. 
In his homily on arrival in Cebu, John Paul said "the selfish pursuit of pleasure, sexual permisiveness, and the fear of a permanent com­mitment, are destructive forces." Speaking in English, the pope declared that the church will "never dilute or change" its teach­ing on marriage and family which, he said, is frrmly rooted in the Bible. 
See POPE, page7 


student uni·on 
~NO-VIRGINIA 

the NOTRE DAME circle 
SUN· FEB.ll at 10:30 
• 
....
• 
WE PUT 
IT ALL TOGETHER. 

A challenging future and continuing contribution to the 
growing health care industry ... a few of the pieces ~hat make 
up a career with American ~o~pital Supply C:orporatiOn. W,e provide our people with unlimited opportumty and potential in 22 divisions located around the world. American Hospital Supply Corporation realized over $2 billion in sales last y~ar and as our growth continues, so do our career opportumtles. 
We need people in the following areas: 
Accounting/Finance/Operations Sales/Distribution/Marketing 
Learn how you can fit into the picture when our representative is on campus: 
March 4th and 5th (Sign-up sheets will be posted the week of February 23rd) 
We are an equal opportunity employer m/f 
••• American Hospital Supply Corporation 
... 



\· 
\ 
\ 
\· The Observer Friday, February 20, 1981 -page 6 ,
\ 
' 
\ 
\ SB: college town?
l 
.L ( year's Hofman discusses problems
best film!' 
-Charles Champlin, 

tty MEGAN BOYLE portunities for social interaction doesn't provide the answer to 
LOS ANGELES TIMES 

News Staff that existed in the days ofhis youth what you, the students, really want and today at Notre Dame. and need," he said. Stressing the need for social "South Bend is not a college Although he sympathized with
tTESS' 

facilities on campus, Freshman towR," Hofman said, "and ~e need the administration, he did say he shows,l Dean Emil T. Hofman addressed a a place here on campus." saw the construction of a social group of 50 students late Wednes­"Socially, what we have at Notre center on campus as a partial solu­
1:30-4:45-8:10 

day on the subject "The Big Band Dame today is not much different tion to the problem of social life. Era or What It Was Like Being Your than when the University was an "What we need is a place with a Age When I Was Your Age." all-male institution," the dean club atmosphere," he explained. 
Hofman, a Big Band enthusiast, commented. He contended that Hofman suggested, "a decent spoke of the evolution of jazz and parietals and the keg policy did not theater" would he a good place to swing and its effects on the social cause the campus' social start when planning a new social 
life of his generation. Hofman used deficiencies. center, since it might he franchised the Swing Era to contrast the op-"Drinking beer by the keg at little cost to the University. Hofman emphasized the impor­
' ................................., ·-·····........................,..._.............................................................................., tance ofexpert consultation in the 
• "Vincent the Comforter: • planning of a new facility, because,
t interested in becoming a 
he said, he believes social recrea­

: fte Ministry of Vincent van Gogh" • 
tion is so essential to the Notre

DIRECTOR 
Dame community. "We, the

• 
: an illustrated presentation by Henri Rouwen •: faculty and administration, are
l of the 1981-82 
educators, theologians, chemists.

: Priday, February 20 8:00pm Wuhington Ball : 
· We need a consultant in this field ·

t ND/SMC WORLD 
to advise us," Hofman said. 

\ \ •• sponsered by: CILA-center for lxperiential •• _ HUNGER COALITION_.... The dean concluded his talk by soliciting student response to his
\ •• Learning-student Union ••. suggestions.
call: Lou ••• l407 Kae..•4-l-4504 ~ 
: no admission charge •
• • Mary...4-1-5632 I
l .................................~. -........................................................................................................................ Judges,
~ 

1 
~ 
,­
! 
I 
\ 
~\ 
; 
' 

PREVI 
February 26 
Starring 
I An Intel Recruiting Team 
In 
t~L ABOUT INTEL'' 
Twice during the last decade. technological innova­If you're about to J""C(X!ive a degree in thf._ following 
tions at Intel Corporation have ~volutionizcd the world disciplines-Electrical Engineering, Computer Science 
of microek'ctronics-first with the semiconductor mem­Engineering, Solid State Physics, Chemical Engineering, 
ory, then with the microprocessor computer-on-a.,chip. or Materials Science-and are interested in careers in 
Our business is built on this ability to introduce new the design, manufacturing, marketing, or technical technologies and products. To this end. we've been sales of Intel products; sign up now in your placement responsible for more than a dozen highly innovative office to talk with one of our representatives on campus. products that are now industry standards, and at least Or send your resume to Intel College Relatioru; at one seven major semiconductor fabrication processes. of our locations in the area of your geographic preference. 
Today. we are the indisputable leader in four sig­nifiCant product areas: semiconductor memory. memory systems, microcomputer components, and micro­CALIFORNIA: 3065 Bowers Avenue, computer systems. And from sales of just S4 million in Santa Oara., CA 95051 1970, we've grown to over $660 million in ~venues in 1979. 
H-ow did we do this in such a short period of time? OREGON: 5200 N.E. ElamYoungWith a lot of bright, dynamic. and innovative people at 
Parkway, Hillsboro, OR 97123. 

every level--from management to staff suppon. We'd like you to be in on the excitement and the 
ARIZONA/TEXAS/NEW MI~XICO:
challenge. At any of our five Intel locations: Santa Clara, 
California; Portland, Oregon; Phoenix, Arizona; Austin. 6401 W. Williams Field Road, 
Texas; and Albuquerque, New Mexico. 
Chandler, AZ 85224. Sign Up for Campus Interviews. 
An e~ualopportunity employer m/f/h.

Our recruiting team will be on campus soon to give\ you a preview about careers at Intel. 
•
I 
psychs responsible? 
INDIANAPOUS (AP) -The judges and psychiatrists who allowed Steven T. Judy back on the . streets after numerous acts of violence must accept some blame for four murders he committed and the death penalty he now faces, a therapist who counseled Judy for three years said yesterday. 
"It doesn't make you feel as though you're a great success when someone you worked close­ly with, and cared about, becomes something you had hoped he would not become," said Carol L Hill, department head for Bahr School at Central State Hospital. 
"I still feel an emotional attach­
ment to him. I spent a lot of time 
working with him. I feel there must 
have been something else I could 
have done, but I don't know what," 
he said. 
Judy, 24, convicted of the 1979 murders of Terry L Chasteen and her three infant children, is scheduled to die in the electric chair March 9, in the first execu­tion in Indiana since 1961. 
Nouwen 
to speak 
Henri Nouwen, a native of Hoi· land, and a former visiting profes­sor at Notre Dame, will offer an illustrated prest·ntation on "Vincent the Comforter: The Min­istry ofVincent Van Gogh" tonight at 8 p"m. in Washington Hall. 
The program is sponsored by the Student Union and the Center for Experiential Learning as a part of the 20th anniversary celebra­tion ofCll..A. 
Ordained to the priesthood in 1957, Nouwen studied psychology and theology at the University of Nijmegen and was a fellow in the program for psychiatry and religion at the Menn~.tger Founda­tion. 
Nouwen is an a5S()Ciate profes­sor in pastoral the<•l-ogy at Yale Divinity School, ami lectures ex­tensively both here ~ i abroad He has writtt ., such ;..•r des as Witb Open Hands_ Out oJ Jolitude and Reacbtng Out 
..;, 
• 
,j 

The Observer Friday, February 20, 1981 -page 7 
Parnell announces 'work •••' 



By NORMAN PLATE 
News Staff 
Professor Charles Parnell, Direc­

tor of the Foreign Study Programs 
at Notre Dame, recently an­
nounced a meeting for any stu­
dents interested in work programs 
in Britain or Ireland. 
Chris Lawrence and Carole 

Dodd of the "Work in Britain" 
program, and Seona · Mac 
Reamoinn of the "Encounter 
Ireland" and "Work in Ireland" 
programs will be available for 
questions at the International Stu­
dents Lounge in the basement of 
LaFortune from 11 a.m. to 2 p.m. 
on Monday. There will be formal 
presentations by both groups in 
the I.ittle Theater in Lafonune at 4 
p.m. 
The "Work in Britain" program 

is available through the Council of 
International Educational Ex­
change ( CIEE) in cooperation 
with the British Universities North 
American Club (BUNAC) in Lon­
don. Those who qualify for this 
program are given a "Blue Card" 
which permits them to obtain 
"work experience of any kind, 
anywhere, for any period up to six 
months, starting at any time of the 
year." 
Both Ireland programs are the result ofcooperation with the Uni­on of Students in Ireland (USI). The Work in Ireland Program is run by the CIEE, which issues work permits for qualified students. The work permit is valid for any four consecutive months, but most par­ticipants visit Ireland duringJune, 
July, and August. Both the Work in 
...Pope 
continuedfrom page 5 

"The church condemns any at­tempt throgh the practice of polygamy to destroy the unity of marriage, and any attempt through divorce to destroy the marriage bond," he said. 
"I owe it to my apostolic office ... to reiterate vigorously her con­demnation of artificial contracep­tion and abortion," the pope said. 
The Philippines, Asia's only predominantly Catholic nation, does not recognize divorce and bans abortion. 
In an address earlier in the day, John Paul upheld mandatory celibacy for priests. 
A river of humanity flowed across this central Philippine city of 500,000, singing and dancing and desperately trying to catch a glimpse of the pope, who came here on the third day of his six-day tour ofthe Philippines. 
The wife of Philippine President 
Ferdinand E. Marcos, Imelda, flew 
in on an unannounced visit and at­
tended a solemn Mass the pope 
celebrated in a vast abandoned air­
port packed with a million faithful. 
attention pre~aw soci 
fficer applications due Spm, feb. 24 in 101 O'Shag 



RADIATION 
Britain Program and the Work in IESEAICH Ireland Program cost S SO, which is used to cover the cost of processing the work permit. The Encounter Ireland Program is "a one month homestay educa­tional and travel experience." The program costs 1795 including round trip transportation between New York and Dublin. The par­ticipants stay with host families and are exposed to many cultural events, including a series of 
·~..:

lectures at Trinity College. 
"I recommend these programs all of the time," said Professor Par­nell, "I think it is a good way for a student to see the country and ex­No, this is nota Radiationjoke, however, this tree, like allthe otherinhabitants ofND, is enjoying th~-~. perience a different lifestyle." unseasonable weather. (Photo byRachelBlount) 

....,. .. :.~~ '. :---~ :. 
Meet theJ.!lrAll-Stars during Spring Break 
Escape with your friends to Florida for a few days 
this spring. Enjoy the fun, bask in the sun ... and 
spend your vacation with Lite beer. 
Meet the Lite All-Stars, those popular personalities from the TV commercials. Look for them wherever Lite beer activities are scheduled-at hotel pool­sides, on the beachfront and in the Expo America exhibit hall in Daytona Beach and Ft. Lauderdale. 
C 1981 M1fler BrewutQ Company. Milwaukee. W•sconsen Great Taste ••• Less Fllllne 
•
'.'r·.., 
-~-­


Friday, February 20, 1981 -page 8
Editori 
s 
Pulling America back together again 
Michael Onufrak 


Many people believe that Time Inc. owns and operates a single magazine, Time. Another, older group, perceives this corporation as keeper of two publications ­Time and the revived Life. There is another, better-read group, which is aware that this company owns these two magazines, plus Sports Illustrated and either People or Fortune. And then there is another, much smaller group, which knows that Time Inc. is the corporate con­glomerate which owns seven magazines ·(the five already men­tioned, as well as Money and the new science magazine Discover), a book publishing company, and several other endeavors. Finally there is the corporation itself whose self-perception includes all of this, as well as the notion that Time Inc. is author of the national attitude and director of the na­tional interest. 
And, in many ways, with respect to these last two roles, the conglomerate is correct. When Henry Luce founded his magazine empire way back in the 1920s, he began with the chronicler of Big Business, Fortune. In those days, when Andrew Mellon was Secretary of the Treasur and ca italism was 

thriving at an unprecedented rate, Fortune fit the national image. It was, and still is, the main bastion of business journalism whose an­nual list of the nation's 500 largest corporations (now expanded to 1000) has been the measuring stick for corporate America. When government began to ~x­pand and became the dominant force in American society (replacing the business com­munity), Luce started a news weekly primarily geared towards politics -Time. And the con­servative business-oriented dogma which dominated Fortune followed Luce to Time. It was this dogma, acceptable to the majority of potential readers, as well as in­
novative and excellent reporting, which endeared the latter publica­tion to the American public as a voice to be trusted and relied upon. 
When technology permitted the reproduction of color pictures in a glossy magazine, Time Inc. added a third magazine, Life. This magazine was the pioneer picture magazine. It folded in the early seventies primarily because o(the advent of television whose pictures moved and were available in infinite variety 24 hours ada not ·ust on a weeki 


basis. Today, that magazine has been resurrected in modified form and on a less competitive basis. When Americans began their cur­rent infatuation with sports, the company constructed Sports Il­lustrated. And when the "Me" decade began, Time Inc. offered People which employed the same glossy style to report on a plet­hora of famous and interesting "Mes." 
Most recently, Money and Dis­cover have joined the fold. The former appeared in the mid­seventies, about the time Americans were discovering that the economy was infested by a troubling demon known as infla­tion. Clearly, there was a need for a magazine which explained how the economy worked, what infla­tion was, and h<1w monetary and financial matters were related. Discover was created to take ad­vantage of the science fiction boom-in the movies, on televi­sion, and in the industries they spawned -and to compete with other magazines like 0 mni. 
It is no surprise that magazines are the" products of their times." After all, they must be sold, and in order to be sold there must be a significant interest among the 
ulace. In the twenties the in­

terest was business, in the thirties, politics. In the fifties it was sports, in the seventies, per­sonalities. As these interests survive or wane, so do the magazines. 
But now the seven magazines which comprise the majority of Time Inc. have gone beyond their accustomed roles of mirrors for the times to become guide-posts. With their respective latest issues, each Time Inc. publica­tion features a special section en­titled "Special Project: American Renewal." This section begins, in each magazine, with an essay penned by corporate archon Henry Anatole Grunwald, editor­in-chief of Time. Besides this reprinted essay, the section con­tains several articles which docu­ment the decline of American life and suggest remedies to eradicate the situation. While the Huddle's deli newstand had received only the new People, Time, Sports Il­lustrated, and Discover by press time, Time Inc.'s message to the American people is clear: 
l )America is in trouble. 2)There is still hope, and change is possible. 
3)And journalism, as it is manifested by the Time publica­tions can offer some directions. 
Thus the new guise of''author of the national direction" and "director of the national will" should be added to Time Inc.'s bonnet of titles. 
Co-ordinating a journalistic ef­fort among seven magazines is an impressive effort. Making that ef­fort cohere ideologically is even more difficult. This problem crops up in Time, where the magazine calls for massive budget cuts, and is then seemingly con­tradicted 10 Discover, where revival of an expensive space program is called for. 
But contradictions aside, the Time Inc. effort is impressive be­cause of its constructive com­mentary. Frequently, in publications of this kind, there is much criticism and little sugges­tion for solution. In each of the · publications for each instance of criticism, there is one of sugges­tion for improvement. While one may personally disagree with the reforms called for-compulsory military service, public funding to congressional campaigns, SALT II-one must admire the persis­tence and sheerjournalistic scope of the entire phenomenon. 
Presented in Til1te alone are a See AMERICA, page 9 


I, 
( 
.,( 


Another bole in AirBag ~nstallments? 
Colman M cCartby 

WASHINGTON -In the to save more lives than .the air debate on air bags and other bag. Second, nothing in the 1966 
.automatic crash protection in highway safety law says that the cars, two facts are unassailable. Department of Transportation First, no technology for crash can back away from a rule be­protection has been more tested, cause GM, Ford or Chrysler proven more reliable or promised aren't selling as many cars as 
Doonesbury Garry Trudeau 
I H~ I [)100Pf!T 7lXJ 

they'd like to. 
Despite this, the Reagan ad­ministration, though Transporta­tion Secretary Drew Lewis, is proposing to change the current rule that requires air bags in tlarge cars in 1982, medium-sized cars in 1983 and small cars in 1984. In the history of passive restraints, which goes back to a 1969 Nixon administration decision requiring air bags, some five delays have been won by the industry. Every delay has been used for one purpose; to lobby for another delay. 
In the latest proposal, Lewis echoed the often-heard industry arguments, ones that safety offi­cials have been rejecting for 12 years: Detroit has enough woe without more regulations, and air bags in big cars mean that smaller foreign cars. ould gain a com­petitive edge. In other words, as Ralph Nader points out,"The sales curve for the industry is deciding the death curve on the highway." 
With the Reagan budget trim­mers promising not to hurt "the truly needy," it is no doubt a com­fort for some that there is concern about the needy auto industry. But a common theme runs through past efforts to "help" Detroit. After political pressures build to push the automakers into producing fuel-efficient, low­polluting and sturdier, less fragile cars, the pressures ease off. It is now understood, though, that these relaxations in getting the in­dustry to make safe, clean and mechanically sound cars have 

been no favor at all. 
It has been a reinforcement of backwardness, coming when many foreign competitors have been energetically moving for­ward. Mercedes has an air bag in many of its cars sold in Germany and reportedly is soon to offer them in the United States. Anot­her European firm is equipping cars with an extra-safe windshield which does much to eliminate decapitations and facial lacera­tions in frontal crashes. 
The. pervading fear ofthe industry is that safety costs too much.... 
Instead of pushing t past this competition and gaining the edge through the sale of safe cars ­and advertising this safety with the passion that horsepower, sleekness and bucket-seat com­fort have been advertised-auto leaders like Henry Ford II, Thomas Murphy and Lee Iacocca have consistently retreated. 
The seeking of another air bag delay might be a temporary ex­pedient. But it won't help the in­dustry to gain long-haul stability. What's needed in Detroit is com­mitment to act like entrepreneurs 
using  competitive,  socially  
responsible  technology in  the  
marketplace.  

The pervading fear of the in­dustry is that safr;ty costs too much and the public, at some point, will balk. 
But according to the Center for Auto Safety, air bags have a 4 to 1 cost-effective ratio. For every dollar spent for them, four dollars are saved in accident costs. If the Reagan administration is so ar­dently anti-inflation, why isn't it seizing the chance to lower the massive expenses of highway crashes? Researchers at the Har­vard School of Public Health report in the current Socioeconomic Newsletter that in 1975 after cancer the deaths and injuries in motor vehicle acci­dents created the nation's heaviest economic costs: $14.5 billion. 
Safety officials estimate that if the original air-bag rule had been enforced, as former Secretary of Transportation John Volpe or­dered in 1969, as many as 9,000 lives a year would have been saved. During all these years of death and injury, countless cit­zeus have been denied their right to safety. The choice is either avoid using cars totally or be sub­jected to the risks impoed b the in­dustry on motorists and passengers every time they go out on the road. 
As for getting American car­makers to market safety, the citizens can't persuade them and now the Reagan administration won't force them. With highway deaths on the rise again, the losses continue to be staggering. 
Colman McCarthy is a synd­icated columnist who appears oc­cassionally on The Observer's editorials page. 

Editorial Board and Department Managers
'Ihe

' 
I ~ Editor·in-Cbief......................................Paul Mullaney Features Editor....................................... Molly Woulfe Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46.5.56 Managing Edltor..........................................Mark Rust Photo Ed~tor ...............................................John Macor The Obseroer is an independent newspaper published by the studems of the Editorials Edttor..............................Michael Onufrak Business Manager ..................................Greg Hedges University of Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. It does nor necessarily Senior Copy Editor ..................... Mary Fran Callahan reflect the policies of the administration ofeither institution. The news is reported Executive News Editor.........................Tom)aclunan Controller........................................................Jim Rudd as accurately and .as <;Jbjectively as possible,. Edito.ri~ls represent the opinion .of a News Editor ..............................................J,.ynne Daley Advertising Manager...................................Mark Ellis majority of the Ed1tonal Board ..Com~entanes, optmons, and letters are th.e vaews SMC Executive Editor..........................Margi.e Brassil Adt'erllsing Sales Manager............ Michael MeSally ·of their authors. Column Sf;lace ts available to all members of the commumty, and SMC News Editor......................................Mary Leavitt Circulation Manager............................Beth Hackett the free expres~ion of varytng opinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged. · Sports Edttor...........................................Beth Huffman Production Manager...........................john McGrath 

·. 
~ 

The Observer Friday, February 20, 1981 -page 9 
P.O.BoxQ 
Student 
applauds 
escorts 
Dear Editor, 
I would like to take this oppor­tunity to applaud the new Student Escort Service. As a resident of the 0' Hara Grace Townhouses it is a welcome relief to know th;t I don't have to be afraid to stay late at the library. Prior to the institut­ing of the Service, I c ailed Security on two separate nights 
_ for an escort home. Once they never showed up and the other time I was told "the girls" were asking for more rides because of the cold, not the . danger. The spirit of concern exhibited by the male students and their willing­ness to take positive steps to help alleviate the dangerous situation is a refreshing change. The or­ganizers and volunteers of this service deserve our appreciation and encouragement for their con­tribution to the safety of the Notre Dame Community. 
Cathy Ann K unzinger 
"Save our space" 

When I was in high school here in South Bend, one of myI have never held in much 
Dear Editor, 
pasttimes awas coming to the ep~te the notion that progress as 
campus with friends to play pool, t as popularly understood is 
pinball, and sordid other juvenile
~ 
worthwhile merely because it is In retrospect, see
excursions. I possible, or because there is an 
that those actions were of no .. apparent" and unverified need 
benefit to the campus and that my for it. I am speaking of the coming only reason for doing them was reformation of Lafortune Student because they were there. I fear Center. I am, like most, the victim now that Lafortune will be so 
of rumours as to what renovations overrun with peurile va;mints, are to take place, and so my high school and college students primary purpose in writing this is alike, as to make it an unbearable to ask that the plans be made place, and to drive the respect­available. able discourse and atmosphere 
"1 0" too much 

Dear Editor, 
increasing number ot people, a 
The recent showing of the 
movie of this type only serves to 
movie" I0" at Notre Dame was in 
promote the idea that casual sex is 
poor taste, and was a bit of bad 
a permissible act. Notre Dame 
judgment on the part of the Stu­
does not need to assist the promo­
dent Union. A movie of this type, 
tion of that idea. 

with its telling scenes of casual 
Those Notre Dame students 
sex certainly does not portray the 
who wish to see this movie cer­
moral values the Catholic Church 
tainly have the freedom to do so, 
attempts to uphold. Because 
but would have little difficulty in 
Notre Dame is a Catholic Univer­
going to one of South Bend's 
sity it should also try to uphold 
numerous cinemas for that
these moral values. The showing 
purpose. The Student Union does
of "10" is definitely contrary to 
not have to bring "10" to 
this purpose. 
everyone's doorstep.
In a day and age where casual 
Bob Riley

'iex is being accepted by an 
. . .America 



away. If, as I have heard, the planners install pinball machines, pool tables, and what-not, it will do no good, but will certain bring about some degeneraton. Again, I do not at present know the surrounding circumstances. But I do know that there is nothing wrong with Lafortune the way it is. Lafortune has a good atmos­phere, good hours, an excellent maintenance crew, but above all, everyone enjoys it. 
It seems that student govern­ment is responding to the need for "social space," and that is ad­mirable. But student government must be discreet in . their dis­tincton between "social life" and "social space." Social life is ade­quate without social space, but not vice-versa. The Dorms all have their own lobbies, some of them very nice, with many ad­vantages over Lafortune, as well as their own amusements. There is no reason to invite wretched­ness and encourage the baser side of social life in Lafortune any more than there is a reason to do so in one of the dorms. 
I might greedily mention that Lafortune is, literally, the only place off-campus students have to go. Great things are not decided there daily, but it is for off­campus students the only on­campus speakeasy. It is their base. If this base degenerated, the already mounting off-campus dis­may will evolve into an outcry so hot and fiery that student govern­ment will have to wear asbestos 
earmuffs. 
Buildings go up these days with no discerning characteristics among them, save for bizarre names. Lafortune is one of the few grand old buildings left on 
.campus. Of course, it is the old 'probelm of preservaton over "progress," money talks, swinging-pendulum values, and now it's fashionable, now it's not, etc. Big deal. We don't need pin­ball machines any more than South Bend needs more hairstylists or shopping malls. We do need to remember that only mental dust floats around in social "space" without social life, and 
when that" space" is degeneratd, there's not even much dust. 
But, do at least let students know what marvelous progress is planned for their homes. 
GeoffLyon 

Wake 
up 

America!! 
Vear Editor, 
Like most reporters dealing with a specific subject that he or she feels the self-righteous need to commment on you take an in­dividual's comment, fabricate a mendacious extreme, and then develop a dramatic piece of sensational journalism. I agree with you that a number of in­dividuals were probably black­balled unjustly due to the investigations of the House On­
American  Activities  Commis­ 
sion.  However,  the  HUAC  
reflected  the  attitude  of  most  

people in the United States during that turbulent period. 
You stated that "conspirators can never have the power or the resources to adequately infiltrate a political system as complex as ours." Had you studied the his­tory of our country you would clearly see how wrong or naive you are. It was the HUAC, sup­ported by the testimony of Whit­taker Chambers, that exposed (to this day) the greatesat infiltration of Communists in our govern­ment's history. People whose aim 
it was to destroy our government from within by such methods as delivering classified materials and 'other documents to the Soviet Union, facilitating the hiring ofot­her communists in order to dis­rupt our government (especially 
during times of war). 
Alger Hiss was convicted by the HUAC of active espionage. He was not some unimportant government employee, but assis­tant to the secretary of state. Not only was he unconditionally guilty of passing top-secret docu­ments to the Soviet Union, but he also played a very.important pan in the writing of the Treaty that was presented to Stalin in 1945 at the Yalta Conference.. One need only look at the deplorable conse­quences of that Treaty to post­ulate what government he was working for. 
It is reporting like yours that makes Americans afraid and hesitant of standing up and fight­ing for what they believe. Liberty makes authority necessary, aut­hority makes Liberty possible and effective. Just because we 
. hold personal freedom sacrosanct does not mean we as a nation have to accept terrorist groups, whose purpose and ideologies are aimed at undermining the foundations and values of the government that makes one's freedom possible. 
Back in the late '40s and early '50s people were as amazed that communists had infiltrated our_ government as you or I would be· amazed to find out that the Soviet Union was sponsoring Sister Teresa. 
Communism is a threat to you, to me, to every individual who loves their freedom, country, religion, family, yes even their souls. McCarthy took an idea to an irrational extreme. However that does not mean a committee like the HUAC guided by reasonable men wold not be valuable to this country's security and welfare. 
Our government is unique in that it keeps itself in check through its distribution of power. I seriously doubt that a committee such as the HUAC would become powerful enough to dictate policy. The "danger of freedom" you so prophetically warn us about will not come from any ac­tion taken by one agency of our grovernment, but by the inacton of the American people. The potential for terrorism in this country is a grave threat to the stability of our country because our desire to protect freedom has distorted into an obsessed tolerance for anything. Americans are constantly told by the press that if today we do not accept subversive groups tomor­row America will be a totalitarian government. 
It is only if America refuses to stand for what it believes ­morally, politically, socially, religiously -that it will lose the freedom it so deeply cherishes and that has been the foundation of the greatest and most revered nation in the history of the world, a nation which every other country in the world looks at in wonder, in awe, and in Hope. 
Louis Basso 

continuedfrom page 8 
number ot rubncs tor overhauling the US government, a detailed white paper on foreign policy, as well as Grunwald's pep talk. 
The larger question here though, is how this report affects journalism. Normally, journalists confine themselves to reporting on policy, not formulating it. Though investigative reporters have always helped to improve government and society, never has a journalistic entity seriously tried to implement public policy at so detailed and sweeping a level. And given the sympathy with which the new administra­tion and the Time Inc. empire view each other, never has such a project shown the prospects to be well-received by those in power. 
There is no question that Time Inc.'s perception of America in 
trouble is correct. At the same 
time there is no guarantee that 
their call for reform and optimism 
will be heeded. What is certain, is 
that their proposals are well­
researched and, if only in their 
opinion, capable of being practi­
cally implemented. It is this last 
point that journalism is 
prepared to lead and lobby for 
much-needed reform ·_ that is 
most important. After all, besides government, few institutions have been blessed with the ion­.gevity, scope of subject, and ac­curacy for reflecting the American character as Time Inc, 
has. 

Michael Onufrak is editorials editor ofThe Observer. 



r
I . . 
, ~ 
,I 
'
, 
I 
1 
' 
eatures
1 
I 
I Which Pizza? 
1 
P
i izza is a staple of collegiate diets everywhere. During four years ofcollege, an average student consumes at least twice his or her own weight in pizza Locally, a number of establishments vie for the student dollar. The choices in pizza range from one creation two inches in height, to a few pies just over one quarter ofan inch. In between, styles vary from the familiar, flat round pizza, to such transgressions as "deep dish," "Chicago style," "Sicilian-style," and even one known as "stuffed." A whole array of toppings and ftllings abound ranging from the popular pepperoni, to the eschewed anchovy, and even including oddities like pineapple. Each establishment has it's own idea of The Perfect Pizza Personal preferences vary as well, some like 'em laden with a myriad of items, while others enjoy a thin pizza hos­ting a few mushrooms. This comparison is in no way complete, but instead covers the most popular of the local eateries. The reviews were based solely on the taste ofthe pizza Whether a piz­za was thick or thin did not matter. How well the product acheived its goal was the only criterion. Special attention was paid to the the quality of the cheese, the taste of the sauce, and the texture of the crust. A pizza wa"i downrated if the sauce was ag­gresive in taste, the cheese bizarre in texture or lacking in taste, or if the crust W!IS tough and chewey. Not affecting the ratings but noted in each review is the atmosphere of the place, which ranged from op­pulent to early bus station. The variety of items on the menu, and opptional styles of pizza are men­tion~d. Since many people like Photo byjohn Macor salads with their pies, salad bars are reviewed if available. Finally, a basic per person price 
Drawings by Pat Byrnes
for a pizza and drinks for four is at the end of each review. Please note that the price can vary by a couple of dollars either direction. 
·--­

Godfather's 

As one ofthe closest restaurants to campus, "Godfather's" is probably one ofthe most popular. The pizza is Chicago­style, which means the cheese is over the toppings. The resulting pies are about an inch in thickness, ofwhich half an inch is a rather unassuming, thick crust. The sauce is reminis· cient oftomatoes. The cheese on top is Jacking in rich cheese flavor. It is properly gooey, but does not have rich mozarella flavor. • • 
A well-stocked salad bar with a variety of vegetables is available, one ofthe best locally. A couple ofsandwiches grace the menu, but the reason to go to "Godfather's" is piz­za. A jukebox containing all that is and was "top 40" and several video games are present. "Godfather's" pizza is thick and filling. The entire concoc­tion, however, is generally bland. Fortunatly, parmesian cheese and hot peppers are available to spice things up. For some, the restaraunt's biggest shortcoming may be un­availability ofbeer or wine. This !s because a state law for­bids it due to the proximity to a local church. 

Price per person: S4. • 
Shakey's 

Everybody knows about Shakeys' all you can eat deal, but since they are a pizza place, what is their pizza like? The crust is rather tough. The tomato sauce is the culprit here; it oozes out ofevery corner. The tasteless cheese is awash in a sea of this overly-sweet tomato matter. Worse yet, the few bits of topping are mere flotsam amongst this mire. Frankly, the piz­za is not very good. 
What Shakey's has going for it is it's all-you-can-eat deal. It's a veritable symphony ofstarch. Crunchy but tender gar­lic bread, spaghetti made with that same sweet tomato stuff, chicken, and a concoction called "mojo" potatoes that are pretty good. All this and the pizza make for a filling repast. It's not exactly gourmet, but it sticksto your ribs. Even better is a high-quality large screen T.V. that provides a nice diversion ifyou are saddled with some dolt as a companion. An ade­quate salad bar is in evidence along with numerous video games. The decor is uninspired. and patrons are forced to sit upon plastic barrels which discourage loitering. Signs proclaiming Shakeys' greatness litter the walls. 
For those in need ofagastronomic fill up, Shakey's should suffice, but do not go just for the pizza Price per person: $3.50 
Friday, February 20, 1981 -page 10 
Gianetto's 
The best pizza in Michiana is an awe-inspiring creation called "The Stuffed Pizza." A house specialty, the pie is two full inches in height, and oozing with cheese. A stuffed pizza differs from your average doughy affair in that the cook starts with a crust in a deep dish and then fills it with mounds ofmeats, vegetables, and cheese. Then a paper-thin dough is layered over the top, and an unassuming tomato sauce is layered on top. This creation looks uncon­ventional, but the taste is simply fabulous. Each bite contains a wealth of flavors that vie for the palate's attention. The crust is sweet and crunchy, yet 
not tough, a perfect combination. 
Gianetto's is located about 20 minutes away in Mishawaka; this is a fair 
Pinnochio's 

This restaurant is fairly close to campus, but not often thought ofas a place to go. It should be. Lovers ofthinnnnnn pizza will be delighted. The pizzas come with an ultra-thin, crisp crust with a floury flavor. The sauce tastes of rich tomatoes, but is applied very thin. By far the best ingredient is the cheese. Unlike some of the tasteless, gooey concoc­tions used elsewhere, this mixture is rich in the flavor of mozarella. 
At Pinnochio's you can find the best thin pizza available and you can have it delivered to your door. The setting is nice, and much, much beer can be consumed. 
Price per person: S4. 
Village Inn 

Located up the strip, the best thing that can be said for the Village Inn is that it does have a full bar. The pizza is not good. The crust is cracker-like and bland. There was too much tomato sauce, and the little cheese present is of the tasteless variety. The toppings are so-so with the mushrooms tasting fresh from the can. 
The interior is hurting, displaying signs ofwar and wear. The salad bar is large and soup is available, too. A jukebox awaits those in need oftunes. A better bet would be one of the sandwiches ofwhich there are many to choose from. Prices have been lowered recently making it acceptable to the budget conscious. 
Price per person: S3. 
Barnaby's 

"Barnaby's" is a broadly-based establishment, split 
between pizza and sandwiches. The pizza is of the thin 
variety, the crust thin and crisp. The sauce is p{esent in small 
quantities, and very neutral in taste -a plus. The cheese is 
the sought-after, natural-tasting dairy delight. It's flavor 
makes each piece a thrill to eat, and leaves a nice mozarella 
after-taste. All the toppings are good, one combination in 
particular that deserves note is Canadian bacon and olives. 
Each bite ftrst crunches and then dissolves into oozing 
cheese and meats, a good experience. 
The interior is dark and has an attractive oakish decor, 
with heavy beams, hard floors, and heavy furniture. The Jack 
ofa jukebox is compounded by piped in Muzak that reminds 
one ofadentist office. Bored children with quarters will find 
few diversions, since there are no video games in sight. All 
sorts ofbeers and wines tnay be purchased for consumption. 
Price per person: S4. 
drive, however it takes 40 minutes to prepare one of these works, so those pressed for time might call ahead. Better yet is to order after arriving, and take time to sample the numerous 
i wines, beers, and mixed drinks available from the bar. The inte­rior appears unchanged since the 1920's, the floors are linoleum, the tables topped with checked vinyl tablecloths, and not a false ceiling panel in sight. All that is missing is a low slung limo spouting tommy guns. 
Price per person: $6. 
The broadest number of pizza styles are available here. They are hand-tossed round, 
or as the "The Monster". The hand-tossed has crisp crust, and acceptable cheese. With toppings, the result is above average, being flavorful and of fine texture. Completely different, is the deep-dish style. 
is thick, but not chewey. The 
cheese is next. On top are the various top­pings ordered. The most interesting feature is the method of applying tomatoe sauce. A dollop of the rich tasting mixture is on each piece. · At the high end of the menu is "The Monster". Premium-priced, this pie is more conventional deep-dish style. The result is an excellent ex­ample of a thick pizza containing gobs of ingredients. 
A vast salad bar is available for the veggie·conscious. Entertainment is limited to old movies of minimal in­terest or quality. The interior is very 

very shcK, dearly the result ofa professional firm. Red, white, and 
green dominate the carpeted dining room. Overall the setting is 
pleasant. Beer and wine are available, but by all means try the Sangria 
Coolers. Price per person: $4.00 
Julio's 
Many have heard ofjulio's but few have 
ever to the actual establishment. The pizza is offered in two variations; thick and chewy, and thin and crispy. The differences be­tween the two are not that great. Both are thin, however the sauce on the chewy one is far too tangy, befittinga taco. The thin one was not bad. Crust, sauce and cheese are all ade· quare. Pizzas of this quality can be found anywhere. 
One thing. however, sets)ulio's apart: not its lack of am­biance (it features two newspaper-littered tables); not it's lack ofbeer and wine (none on the premises) or it's lack ofa decent jukebox. What sets Julio's apart is that they deliver­and they deliver warm. 
For those trapped in their dorms, victims ofdining hall meals or the late-night blahs, a pizza from Julio's can he a salvation. But, by all means, don't drive out there-call­and order a thin and crispy with excellent sausage. The crust may be a bit soggy when it finally arrives nearly one to two hours later, but the tasty slight garlic aftertaste is intact. 
Price per person: S3.50. 
The Dining Hall~~ 
What can be said for this place? Despite the law of averages one always gets a corner piece devoid ofall topping except for that rancid sauce. The pizza is tough, covered with too many green peppers, and generally icky. Any place else in this review is better. The other aspects ofthe place are not woth mentioning, except for those long lines. I can­not recommend this pizza unless the the only otherchoice is mystery caserole. 
Price IJ(:r per~on: your health. 
Ryan Ver Berkmoes 
d<hght 

This writer would like to thank the following people who accompanied me at various times during an intense three-day pizza eating Org)': Lynne Daley, Molly Woulfe, Tom jackman, Beth Huffman, john McGrath, Mark Rust, Mike Onufrak, Molly Noland,john Macor and Bruce Oak· ley. 
... 

.........................
----------------------------------~----~~--­


2

................... eatures 
The Stag at Eve 
H
e sat on a bar stool, drinking too much and making up soliloquies in his head. "I feel haunted" he thought. "The universe is haunted, and my he~d it haunted. God is dead, but the earth is haunted by His ghost. That's the reason people drink." 
He thought ofthe cello sadness ofa Mahler sym­phony, so gruffand melancholy, or the plaintive French ofa Piafsong. "They leave you all stretched out," he thought, searching for an image, "like thieves crucified 
against an evening sky." 

He enjoyed making up imageswhen he wasdrinking, because he liked to imagine that he had poetic gifts. He made up fantasies about himselfat times when otherfel­lows would have been thinking ofgirls. 
He remembered the day and the hour when he became aware oflife as a search. A woman was reading lovely words in a lovely gentle voice, and she spoke of the lovely, necessary things people are searching for. Suddenly, for him, the rubric had been announced by which he must conduct his life: it was plainly and simply a Search. Life, because it is alwaysa searchingand never a finding, is fore-ver filled with restlessness and exhaus­tion, but it is also an affair of never-ending hope. 
He ordered another drink. "Christ," he said to the bartender, "I take myselfseriously." "Feel free," the bartender said, making sure he was paid. 
"The stagat eve had drunk his ftll/ Where danced the moon on Nickies grill," he said, paraphrasing Scott's "The Lady ofthe Lake." 
He thought: "I wonder if Augustine felt as half-assed as I do." Half-assed or not, he tried to recall the dearest loves he had known, the headiest wines he had sampled, and all the times he had satisfied passion (memories failed him after the third remembrance). "All the good 
...Until It's Too late 
T
he tragedy is not that things are broken, It's thaNhey are not mended again. .." 

Alan Paton Delta-Flight 457-Atlanta to Chicago -leavingat 5:50p.m. Barely enough time to catch a cab from Grant Field and get to the airport. Thank goodness that cabbie had driven in traffic before. Ofcourse the good thing about running through airports was not having any time to brood over Notre Dame's 3-3 tie with Georgia Tech. Oh well, give her your boardingpass, find a seat in the back and forget the score. Forget the game. Try to sleep. When the stewardesses served dinner, 40 minutes later, we were all wide awake. And that's when I first noticed him, sitting by himself, in the row right in front ofus. He was in the seat by the window, gazingoffinto space· I neverthought oftalking to him. He looked preoc­cupied and I was tired and, really, why bother? Besides, he looked like he had some secrets he was keepingand, like every American knows, getting involved can only get you into trouble. But when he turned around and stared at us, I knew there was no way to avoid him. Everyone waited to see who would speak first. We didn't have to wait long. "I heard you guys talkin' about football and stuff," he started slowly. "And Ican see your fancy suits and all so I figure you must be big shots." All ofus laughed, waitingfor the punchline that had to follow. "Yeah, you're laughing at me cause I ain't nobody," he continued. And that stopped us. For the first time I looked at his face and noticed it was cut and stitched in a few places. And he must have read my mind. "So, I gotafew cuts on my face," he said. "I'm a rodeo rider and I took a few hard ones lately." • "Well, we're not big shots oranything," I started. "We're juststudents--" "You guys wanna know where I'm going?" he inter­rupted. "I'm going to my best friend's funeral." "That's too bad," we voiced mechanically, somewhat in unison. "Nah, that ain't the bad part," he went on. "The bad part is that I ain't spoken to him in five years." "Wait a minute," I stopped him. "I thought you said this guy was your best friend." "He was," the guy insisted. "Best friend.. .like my own brother." "So whydidn't you ever talk to him?" inquired one of mycompanions. "Cause I'm a stubborn bastard," he spat back. "And so was he. See, we was close foe years, business partners at 
experiences," he thought, "are the only promises of 
something better. The better thing has neither a face 
nor a name. I live in the shadows ofdeep desires that 
have no objects I have words for, but which I must look 
for anyway, irresistibly, whether I want to, or not." 
He felt so sorry for himself that, maudlin with drink, he began to cry. 
"I am such a Romantic ass," he sobbed. "I feel I should have died with Byron, or be buried with Keats in the Protestant cemetery in Rome. I should have drowned in the sea with Shelley, after musing over daffodils with Wordworth in the Lake Country. I should be hanged for my inferiority as a nco-Platonist, after being forced to explain the Epipsychidion to road hogs at a truck stop, or made to read the Immortality Ode to children sent to work in a mine." 
He could see that the bartender was watching him with disgust. "Why do I do this to myself?" he thought. He decided to put a floor under his emotfons by figuring things out. "My mood begins with a sense ofbeing limited," he reasoned "I exist as one very limited center ofconsciousness; that is all I am, and all I can hope to be: one damned, limited center. I promise myself-from the foolish assertions offaith -that this center is pre­cious and immortal; but when I think about it, that thinking, precious, immortal mind gets shoved against a f------wall. I stare at the wall for a while. Then, to escape, I think about other centers ofconsciousness in other people. I buy a thousand books, trying to make those ot­her centers part of my personal consciousness, and it can't be done. One ofthe reasons it can't be done is that nobody has got time to read a thousand books." 
He pondered this while the great heavens moved in time from sunset to the evening star. Then he began to slump towards the floor. The stag at eve was passing out. Fortunately, there were friends nearby who were willing to help him. They gave him the assistance of strongarms, and offered him the service ofbringing him home. 
The bartender stared after him contemptuously. "God damn stupid college kids," he said. "Foul mouth rotten kido;. All they ever have on their minds is broads and booze." He made a pantomime ofspitting. 
One wonders at what age he himselfhad finished the Search that begins with the centerofconsciousness and ends face-forward against an unspeakable wall. • 
one point. And you know how everybody says the best 
way to break up a friendship is to go in business toget­
her? Well, even that couldn't separate us. 
"But about five years ago we had this fight oversome­
thing like -see, I can't even remember what it was 
exactly. But it just got worse and worse cause both ofus 
was too proud to back offand apologize. Then, before 
you know it, neitherofus was speakingand neitherone· 
knew why." 

He paused here and no one responded. Playing"true 
confessions" with a stranger isn't exactly the easiest 
situation to fall into. 
"Then today they call me and tell me he's dead," he 
sighed. "Just like that he has a heart attack and dies. So 
now I'm going to his funeral." 
''I'm sure he'd appreciate that," chipped in another 
guy who was listening. "He probably knew how you 
really felt." 

"Sure he knew!" the guy responded angrily. "He 
knew, I knew. Big deal. We didn't speak for five years 
and now he's dead and just because I knew don't make 
me feel any better... 
"And it probably didn't make him feel any bettereit­
her." 

Just then the pilot brought us back to earth with a trite announcement that we were approaching Chicago so we should put out ourcigarettes and pull up our seats and"it really was a pleasure serving you and we hope to see you aboard another Deltaflight real soon." 
All ofwhich kind offorced an end to the guy's story. 
"I know I'll feel bad about not speaking to him," he said. "I'll feel bad for a long time. But I guess I can live with that...hell, I have to. But I wish I could have told him just once how I really felt. Could have? Hell, I could have.. .I just never did." 
Then he turned around and never said another word. When the plane reached the gate, he remained seated as everybody else stood up to "make sure all carry-on items were removed from the storage compartments overhead." 
I said goodbye to him but he never responded. He was lookingout the window again... "Whydo you think he told us all that?" someone asked as we entered the terminal. "Ah, he just needed somebody to talk to," answered another fellow. "He was just blowin' offsteam." 
Yeah, maybe, Iagreed silently. But maybe... 
Maybe he told us somethingin the process. 
Somethingmost people never thinkabout until they have to. 
Frank LaGrotta 
Friday, February 20, 1981 page 11 

A Hellish Experience 
W
alt Disney's latest effort to snare the 
teenage and early adult market, The Devil and Max Devlin, indicates that Disney is still locked in the Pollyanna mode. Humans be­tween the ages of 13 and 29 comprise tht' 


majority of the movie-going public. Disney's 
traditional well-laundered, squeaky-clean fare, literally scared offthe masses who preferred glimpses offlesh, and litanies of naughty words. Unfortunately, Disney's s~rategy to lure these folks in has merely been the placement ofPG ratings on standard fare. It's just a shame, for fllms devoid oftawdy aspects translates into ftlms devoid ofinterest. 
The DevilandMaxDevlin opens with promise. It offers an insight­ful view ofSouthern California's infamous decadence. Numerous films have used L.A. as the butt for many a joke, but this ftlm's observations are fresh -giving the viewer.a sense ofhope. This hope proves to be unfounded as things go down the tubes fast. Very quickly, the wit is replaced by all to predictable boredom and triteness. 
Elliot Gould stars as Max Devlin, a despicable manager ofan apart­
ment complex gone to seed. The story's plot is set up in one ofthe ear­
ly and rare amusing moments. Gould refuses to help an old lady 
across the street and subsequently trips on her cane. As per LA., 
Gould's misfortune is to fall under the wheels ofa bus loaded with 
beings belonging to a cult (Hare Krishnas, best known for their 
baldheaded airport book-vending). They begin chanting at Gould's 
lifeless form. The scene works because the absurdities oflife come 
together 
Gould ends up in a fine representation ofhell. Extras abound in a 
scene sowing fiery heat, and endless misery. It exemplifies what Holy 

Men have always warned errant mortals to avoid. Comic Bill Cosbyen­
ters the plot as the chiefdevil who negotiates a deal with Gould, 
whereby ifhe can find three saps willing to sell their souls, Gould can 
save himself 
Gould returns to earth for a limited time -only to find his three 
suckers. Cosby, acting as his supervisor, grants h.im a number ofspe­
cial powers to help him in this scam. Predictably Disney -Gould's 
three victims are all kids. The balance ofthe movie is an unending 
bore, with Gould continually trying to con these typically-streetwise 
youths. Aglaring weakness that grates upon the viewer is that nothing 
is said ofGould's hate for kids. The story sets up this premise, yet when 
Gould ends up having to get three kids to save his soul, nothing is 
made ofthis logical punchline. 
Gould and Cosby are both veteran actors with proven talents. Neit­
her, however, works up a sweat in their respective roles. Hopefully, 
both men's bank accounts have grown, because they couldn't have 
gotten much else out oftheir performances. Fault lies with them for 
not even attempting to bring their characters to life. One can almost 
here them snoring as they recite their lines. Second, and the worst 
crime is the script. A good word for it is lifeless. How the writers 
managed to not lapse into a coma while writing it is beyond me -or 
maybe they were. 
Advertisements have pushed the Gould-Cosby pairing to the hilt. Potential victims (including this writer) will probably surmise that this pairing is brilliant and the yucks and chortles will flow like cheap wine. In this case the wine has turned. The DevilandMax Devlin is best relegated to the scrapyard littered with such other big star misfJies as TheJazzSinger andSame Time Next Year. 
Lost in this celluloid mire are three fine young actors; Adam Rich, julie Budd, and David Knell. The three bring youthful e:u~berance to their roles, only to have it smothered by the aforementioned cinematic crimes. For their sakes, their successful performances are easily noticed, and we should be seeing more ofthem. 
Disney's attempts to lure new audiences have thusfar been like the cons in thisftlm. Ifthey hope to lure the fickle youth market, they will have to do more then make hellish versions ofthe "Boatniks". 
Wnlers 11ole: Each week's review is accompa11ied h a Pat Byn.esiJIIlstration that corresponds to the fJm 's 011erti11 qiUiiity. &I~ n a ~J-ofU., ry•bol<,..; 'b.v -•" 
'fli1 

~~4~S&£ 
To be avoKkd A real snoozer As exciting Worth S«ing, Not to be at all costs as knitting • solid effort missed, a classic: 
... 

\
r. 
,' ~ 
, t 
, , r 
' 
r 
, 
r ~ 
I I 
I1 
f . 
r ( r i 
iI i 
I 
I 
l 
j 
j 
l 
I I i 
,i 
l ) 
j 
J 
J 
'l 
I 
I 
I 
J 
.... 
-· 
Catnpus 
FRIDAY, FEB. 20 
•9 
a.m. -public defense of thesis, patricia j. simpson, "characterizaton and evalua· rion of large unilamellar liposomes as carriers of syn­thetic, single-straanded polynucleotides to affect rna · virus replication in cell culture" 102 galvin. 

•3:30 
p.m. -perspectives in the philo_sophy of science, "theoretical explanation: the appeal to unobservable en­tities," welsley salmon, mem. · library lounge. 

•s:t5 
p.m. -mass and supper, bulla shed. •7, 9:30, 12 p.m.­film, "the shining" engr. aud. sponsor: navy council. 

•s 
p.m. -symposium, "el sal­vador: pathology of a revolu­tion" sponsored by government graduate organiza­tion, ur iversity village com­munity· enter ( 222 cripe st.) 

•s 
p.m. -film, "gone with the wind," carroll hall, smc, sponS< .ed by sapb, $1. 

•s 
p.1 . -nd/smc theatre, "a resto . tion comedy, the cour :1 y wife," frank canino, torr to, guest director. o'l: .ghlin aud. 

•s 
p.m. -lecture and presen­taton, "vincent the comforter: vincent ban gogh as minister," rev. henri nouwen, yale divinity school. wash hall. sponsor: cila and ctr. for experiential learn­ing. 

•9 
p.m. -nazz, eric barth and wally timperman, nazz. 

•10:30 
p.m. -performance, tom kovacevic, nazz. 


SATURDAY, FEB. 21, 
•Tesi, 
Law School Admissions Test. Engr. Aud. 

•1 
and 7 p.m. -film, "gone with the wind" carroll hall smc, $1. 

•7, 
9:30, 12 p.m. -film, "the shining" engr. aud. 

•s 
p.m. -nd/smc theatre, "a restoration comedy, the country wife," o'laughlin aud. 

•8:30 
p.m. -film, "the cross and the switchblade", library aud., free admission. 

•9:00 
p.m.-performance, gar· cia/marcello band, nazz. 


SUNDAY, FEB. 22, 
• 2 p.m -young people's con­cert, featuring teenage children 
of nd faculty and staff. mdm. library aud. sponsor: ladies of nd music group. 
•2-4 
p.m. -opening recep­tion, "recent acquisitions 1979­1980" west gallery o'shag. 

•2:30 
p.m. lion's club travel 'lm, "wilderness trek through ·-:w zealand," grant foster. car­


1 II hall smc. 
•4 p.m. -slide lecture, in­formation for students wishing to work abroad in Ireland or England given by reps from the 
student unions of Britain and 
___:1-=rel=an=dsz.::.,laf<.=.;:.o::....;:.;rt=un=-e-lit-tl-et-he-at-er_.___.
•7 p.m. -auditions for 2 plays, washin on hall. 
~ 
'Rock' extends hours 
Extended hours are now in effect at the Rockne Memorial, which is 
open  Monday  through  Saturday  
until I a.m.  and ·sunday  until  II  
p.m.  

• 



Molarity 
HOW CAN I PDS!>IBL Y TWJJ A SCHOOL ON ONLY Fol.JA Hl.1Jt>R£t> POLLA 
I :5HOUL.D """1(£ AAI 
PP£AL 7D 7H£ ALLJMN I TO DONATE ~HE MONEY .5D WE CAN GE.f THIS JJNIVER.~I1Y OFF 711/Z 


BUI 11-tERE AR£ 
No ALUMNI .. , WE.RE Tli£ Flf?ST PEOPLE TO 
COM£ HERe 


Michael Molinelli 




The fishhawkl3J:m~ 
To tbebrillialft,1~1.
AMemoir 
indisyensable,~worJ.<.ing, 
ACROSS 31 Doctrine 1 Aggressive 32 Rowdydow 9 Consortium 33 Drinks like 
15 Onewho a dog loves 35 Tabriz blindly native 
16 Baltimore 37 Snapshots 
athlete 40 Wool 17 Boring 41 Discreet 18 Facial 43 One of the 
plus Aleutians "19 Louis,par 44-Oop exemple 45 Consumer's 20 Worked concern: 
dough abbr. 22 Cupid 47 Affectation 24 -Park, 50 Promontory 
Colorado 51 Gem weight 25 Crown of 53 Purposive the head principle 29 Depots: 55 Giza sight abbr. 57 Sesame 
Yesterday's Puzzle Solved: 

58 Wildly confused situation 
62 Impel 64 Fly 65 Taught 66 Careless 67 Fidgety 
DOWN 1 Snail 
genus 2 Dialects 3 Golden 
oriole 4 Dot of 
land: Fr. 5 Chore 6 In a state 
of unity 7 Relentless avenger 
8 Picks up the tab 9 Morse and 
zip 10 Jejune 11 Volcano 
feature 12 Goone better 
13 Cloth· measuring unit 
14 Trevino 21 John or tasse 
23 Recaptures the initi· ative 25 Antarctic 
bird 26 Gallimaufry 27 Fatherof 
Cordelia 28 USSR river 30 Piquant 32 Blanket 
shawl 34 Air weight 
unit: abbr. 36 Deserter 37 Nine inches 
in England 38 Lacquered 

metalware 39 Troubles 42 Overtoast 43 Fashionable 46 Swiss math· 
ematician 48 Take turns 49 Retinues 51 Flower 
clusters 52 "-Andron· 
icus" 54 Toboggans 55 Butter 
units 56 Lexicon: abbr. 58 Drinking place 59 "The Stag at-" 60 Indistinct 61 Medieval 
lyric poem 63 Lace 

+ + ++ + In  ar  •1  
+ + : Friday•  
~  
6•.00 _ 7.• 30 WSl\.TD"f  

7:30 -__9:00 Dan Zimmerman 9:00-9:30 WSND 9:30-2:00 Crystal rock band 
s.u. sponsored
•

L .. 

Tbeauthor. 

The Daily Crossword 

All Rights Reserved 
ras ••• •·i 
Saturday 
12:00 -7:00 WSND 
:• 

7:00-9:00 Smokey Joe 
•
:

10:00 -11:00 Crystal • 
•

11:00--12:00 Awards : 
Raffle, sellers drawings etc... : 

············~····················••++•• ..··········-~····..···~ 



Sports Special -ND vs. Vtrginia Friday, February 20, 1981 -page 13 
In Chicago 
Irish battle top-ranked UVa 


By KELLY SULLIVAN 
A.uistantSports EdUor 
Only the time and place are dif­ferent. Otherwise, Sunday's show­down between Notre Dame and Virginia will include all the ele­ments you'll see in the games in ~lphia in March. 
), •o·~~ thi$ ~oo~ · takes 
~ ko ~· . 
place in Chicago in February, two 
:·1 · · highly-rated teams, the country's fmest college center, several all­America candidates, the NBC cameras, and Billy, AI, and Dick will all be on a neutral court for what could be another in a long line ofIrish giant-killings. 
"This game should really be a great moment for college basket­ball," says Digger Phelps. "When we arranged the home-and-home agreement with Virginia last year, we had hopes that the games would attract this kind of atten­tion. With Virginia unbeaten at this point, I don't think anyone is disap­pointed a bit." 
"We're looking forward to the game...it should be a super show for college basketball fans." 
The I ranked Cavaliers, NIT champions of a year ago, bring a 23-0 slate into the Rosemont Horizon for a 1:00 p.m. CST (2:00 EST) tipoff. Clemson's Wednesday night upset ofWake Forset assured 
·;''i~>_{· 
Irish point guardjohn Paxson has the tough task ofengineering 
Virginia of its first ever regular
Notre Dame's offense against a tough Virginia squ~ on Sunday. (photo by]ohn Macor) 
season Atlantic Coast Conference championship, something Coach Terry Holland has wanted 
"This is the fulfillment of one ot 12 rebounds per contest, best on . the primary team goals we had set the Cavalier roster. .But Sampsotl· for ourselve.s back in October~"· dominates aU aspect5 of the game, Holland said. "Winning the ACC as is C;·videnced by his ability to crown is a tribute to the seniors on create high-percentage shots ror the team that made our program his teammates wJ:len he's sue· what it is today. However, dus r~-.. . rounded. Guard Jeff Lamp, a 6-<i. 
ly_ doesn't change an,yt~o.·~¢;tf :· ~·-:senior, boMH ¥· .~xcellc.~t' rs,o:t·-:~ '·~ 
stiH approach ~very pte as .u it . were crucial to the ourcome ofthe · conference race." 
Or crucial to his team's playo« preparation. The first-ever matchup between Virginia and the Irish will show just how much muscle the Cavs possess. Holland anticipates a very physical con­frontation, something his team, which belongs to a conference ~riticized for its overuse offinesse, has not had to contend with very often. 
'The physical nature of the game concerns me more than any­thing else," explains Holland. "Notre Dame has a lot of 'quality depth...they're going to come at us very hard. You'll probably see a lot of fouls called and that'll take its toll on both teams. Ifthey don't call the fouls then the gradual wear and tear at the end of 40 minutes will take its toll on us. But we'll have to learn how to play under those con­ditions to be ready come March." 
Seven-foot-four behemoth Ralph Sampson, though not Vir­ginia's whole show, is certainly its star attraction. The sophomore center is averaging 19.3 points and 
Virginia vs. Notre Dam.e 
at the Rosemont Horizon Rosemont, ill. Sunday, February 22, 1981 
Game time: 2 p.m. EST 
·. PP8· figure aad has lllttn a· key tQ' ~ · . ;~. the Cavs success this season. Hoi• ~. land calls Lamp "an aU-American in·· · every respect... when the pressure's on and we need a basket in the clutch,JeO's always there." The other halfofVirginia's back-court duo is 6-4 junior JeffJones, who leads the team in assists while scoring at a 5.2 clip. The forward slots are manned by 6-S senior Lee Raker ( 11.9 ppg.) and 6-8 sop­homore Craig Robinson ( 6. 5 ppg. ). "There aren't many teams in the· . country that provide the kind of problems for a defense that Vir­ginia will," states Phelps. "We simply can't be concerned with trying to stop Ralph Sampson and forget everyone else, because Jeff Lamp and Lee Raker shoot !'f) well. They come at you from all angles." 
Notre Dame, now 19-4 after their narrow escape with Fairfield last Monday night, will counter with their usual starting line-up, paced by Kelly Tripucka's 18.4 scoring mean. Sunday will mark the return of Notre Dame's two senior forwards, Orlando Wool-ridge and Gil Salinas. 

ND vs. No.l--one more time 
• 
"You can tell it's getting closer to game time -Dig­ger's got hisgame face on." 
-an unidentified observer 

Now that's an understatement. Digger the Teacher has suddenly become Digger the Creature (like from the Black Lagoon.) Everyone and everything that gets in his way gets a piece ofhis mind. 
A very loud piece. 
But it is his way ofgetting himself and his team ready for Sunday's game. And everyone knows it. 
"Sure Digger yells a lot," points out one player. "but he just wants to make sure everyone concentrates and keeps their mind on what's going on.". 
What's going on is intense preparation for the No. I team in America. Before practice Digger is challenged to a shooting contest by his counterpart in the football office, Gerry Faust. Faust displays remarkable accuracy (although unorthodox form) in hitting a few long­distance set shots. But Digger is able to stay right with him and actually makes one more than Faust. 
Afterwards, Faust makes his rounds as the players stretch for practice. He offers a word ofencouragement to everyone and departs with a "Let's beat Virginia!" yell that echoes offthe walls of the Moreau Seminary gym. 
The team has spent the week at Moreau -evicted from the ACC arena by i.he annual invasion of the Ice Capades. However, other than the poor lighting, no one seems to mind the extra walk. Distractions here are few 
_) 


/ 

and the only notse besides the bouncing balls and 
squeaking sneakers is Digger. 
"C'mon, let's do it and let's do it right!!" he implores. 
The clowning around that went on before practice sud­
denly stops and everyone becomes serious. They know 
what they're here for. 
Under the watchful eye of ABC's camera (Dick 
Schaap is here doing a TV profile on Faust, Phelps and 
Notre Dame) the Notre Dame basketball team prepares 
for yet another close encounter of the nationally­
televised kind. The Irish have become notorious for 
playing giant-killer against No. 1 teams and Sunday this 
team will attempt to add another chapter to that private 
collection offairy tales. 
1974.. .Irish versus Bruins...number one ranked... 
88-game winning streak on the line... 
Final score-Notre Dame 71, UCLA 70. 
1978.. .Irish versus Warriors...number one ranked.. . 
national champions...Butch Lee, Jerome Whitehead.. . 
Final score -Notre Dame 65, Marquette 59. 
1980...Irish versus Blue Demons...number one 
ranked... undefeated...double overtime.. . 
Final score-Notre Dame 76, DePaul74. 
• To name a few. And Sunday another top-ranked bully will try its hand against the legend. Not the team, mind you, the legend. 
All of those squads mentioned above were much 
more talented than Virginia. Granted, none ofthem had 
a stud like Sampson, but a line-up like Butch Lee, Jim 
Boylan, Jerome Whitehead, Bernard Toone and Ulice 
Payne, is certainly more imposing than JeffJones, Lee 
Raker, Craig Robinson and...uh...oh yeah, Ralph 
Sampson andJetfLamp. 
But that doesn't mean they're gonna be easy. They're 
good, they're undefeated and they'd love to beat the 
Irish. But that goes without saying. Everybody loves to 
beat the Irish. 

However I don't think it's going to happen. I think 
Notre Dame is going to twin the game by, maybe five or 
six points. I wasn't sure until I talked to John Feinstein, 
who writes for the Washington Post. 
Feinstein, college basketball sage that he is, told me: 
"You guys are gonna win. I don't know how but 
you're gonna win. You guys always win games like this 
so you're gonna win Sunday." 
Now how can I argue with logic like that? 

Friday, February 20, 1981 -page 14
TheObserver 

Coach Fallon looks for best tennis teatn ever 

j 
\ 
.. 
lrlsb trackmen Improve agility and speed by concentrating on T & A. See related story on page 16. (pboto by]obn Macor) 

IT'lSBUBGH CLUB PABTY 
LI 



Harris also paired with the 1981 captain Herb Hopwood 
(Arlington, Va) at first doubles, a
1 Pittsburgh C:lub members are in.tted 
duo that made a serious bid for a 
to a pany in l'lanner.' s C:omaoner 
berth in the NCAA tournament with a 20-3 mark. 
this Prlday at 9:00 (J'eb. 10) 
On top ofthe Irish singles lineup for the second straight year will be sophomore Mark McMahon (San
ittsburghers are I'UI with some proof 
Diego, Calif.). As a freshman,
that you.'re from the "Steel City". 
McMahon played all but two matches at number-one singles,
__. ·----P~Hte~~e you there!.________ 
compiling a 16-7 overall record Right behind McMahon will be 
By MICHAEL ORTMAN 
Sports Writer 
Let's see that one more time! 
That's what Irish tennis coach Tom Fallon hasto be saying to him­self about his 1981 team. For the third straight year, Fallon has al­most his entire squad returning from the previous season, and with a little good fortune, his 25th Notre .Dame team could be the winningest ever. 
With seven ofeight starters back and a rigorous 33-match schedule ahead, the quest for a third con­secutive 20-win season should be somewhat easier than it was a year ago when the Irish finished with an impressive 20-3 record, the best since 1967, and their fourth East­em Cohegiate Tennis Champion­
ship. 
The only man Fallon lost to graduation was captain Carlton Harris, who played second singles and finished with an individual slate identical to the team's, 20-3. 

Hopwood, a seasoned Irish veteran who owns a 46-29 career singles mark. Hopwood compiled a 15-8 slate at third singles last spring. "Herb's an incredibly mature player," says Fallon. "He has a real desire to win and to fill the captain mold, and he really has no 
weaknesses on the court." • 
Junior Jim Falvey (Ocala, Fla) should fall the number-three singles spot. In two years on the team, Falvey has played only three singles matches, winning two of them. Last season, however, Faley teamed with freshman Tim Noonan (St. Louis, Mo.) at third doubles, forming one of the most consistent and effective doubles teams. "Jim's quickness is his big­gest asset," says his coach. "He 
makes routine, what others have trouble getting to." 
The number four and five spots are very close, talentwise. Senior Mark Hoyer (Port Clinton, Ohio) will fill one position and junior Tom Hartzell (Rochester, N.Y.) will fill the other. Hoyer has run the gambit during his Notre Dame career, playing number six as a freshman, frrst as a sophomore, and last spring, posted a 17-5 record at fourth singles. "Mark's a fiery com­petitor," says Fallon, "and he's got perhaps the best serve on the team. When Mark sets his mind to it, he can beat almost anybody." 
Hartzell possesses tremendous reach at the net, using his 6-3 frame to his advantage. Hartzell is the on­ly player on the roster to play singles in every match over the last two seasons, posting a 37-14 record at number five. "Hartzell is basically a serve and volley man," explains Fallon, "but his long reach is such an asset, especially in doubles." 
The schedule this spring is the busiest ever and one of the toug­hest in recent memory. Three top­20 contenders -Michigan, South Carolina and Southern California -grace the agenda 
.Runners 
continuedfrom page 16 
slowdowns in hanooffs, he would have to run his leg in just over three minutes for the team to qualify. Eady's best is 40.3 in the 440 while Rogers has a personal best of I :52.1 in the 880. 
Besides the two relay teams Piane cites a number ofindividuals who have an excellent chance to place (in the top six) in the seven­teen team field. 
"We should have s<>me pole vaulters and triple jumpers doing welL" comments Piane. Also men­tioned were Steve Dziabis in the 600, Dave Bernards in the high hurdles and Greg Bell in the 60 · yard dash and the long jump. 

( 
J' 


J'I 
HOLY CROSS 
ASSOCIATES 




pplications Due Now! 4397 I 7308 
. 

. . f 
._.,._, 


Friday, February 20, 1981 -page 15 
All cl.,sslf•ed ads must t>e receovea by 4 45 p,m" two days pnor to the rssue m whtch the ad tS run The Observer offtce woll accept·classolreds Monday throug'h Ft~dav. 10,00 a m to !'d)O p m 'All classtfteds must be
Classifieds 
pre-para ~tther tn person or through the maol 
····························••·························
Found: 1 pair of Keys, 3 Keys on CALL CHRIS 232·6140$$$ MARDI GRAS '81 PRESENTS WOMEN OF ND-SMC Need ride to Pittsburgh­NOTICES ring at Rockne Gym Phone 1487 CRYSTAL, FRI., FEB. 20, 9:30­
to Identify. REJOICEIll Morgantown, W.Va. area on
Need five Dayton GA's, 11:30 AND SAT., FEB. 21, 9:30­
call BOB (What a babe) COONEY March 4 to see The Dead. Call
11:00.

PROFESSIONAL TYPING. Term Chris at x8619 TURNS21 TODAYICALLHIMAT Don at6718 
papers, theses, etc. Tape ....................................,.................. 6755 AND WISH HIM A H4PPY 
.......................................................... 

transcription. Last year'a same FOR RENT I desperately need GA tickets for COME HEAR SMOKEY JOE AT BIRTHDAY... 
Bro,

MARDI GRAS ON SAT., FEB. 21,
low prices. All work guaranteed. the NO-Dayton game!! Please The art of Manlzlng, like fine
FROM 7-9 P.M. 

aardvark automatic solutions. call Llza at 1258.
FOR RENT· UGLY DUCKLING wine, Improves with age. I'm just
289-6753. ....................................................... JESUIT VOLUNTEER
RENT-A-CAR FROM $7.95 A DAY reaching my peakll
HAPPY BIRTHDAY, KAREN.
Help! Desperately need two CORPS ... Creatlve 
AND 7 CENTS A MILE. PHONE Manlzer
YOU ARE REALLY COASTING
WILL DO TYPING, GA's for Dayton. Name your Slmpllclty...People lnvol~ed with
259-UGL Y FOR RESERVA· ..........,.............................................
NOW, KID! LOVE, BRIAN 

REASONABLE RATES. CALL price. Call Sue, 6777. People. If Interested, Sun.,
TIONS. Manlzer: 
287·5162. ....................................................... Feb.22 at 7:00 pm., Katie Carter
........................................................ What happens when you pop 
For next school year, furnished Need 3 Dayton Tickets GA or ATTENTION ALL NEW JER-from JVC along with a few N.D. your cork? DON'T WALK ALONE !II Student Call: Tom 234-1367 grads wW be In the Library
SEYIANS:

houses, walk to campus, 2n-Bro
THE N.J. CLUB WILL BE HAVING
GET AN ESCORTIII Lounge 'fo talk with all In­
3604' 288-0955. 

A HAPPY HOUR THIS FRIDAYIII
Student Escort Service-On-Call terested. All are welcome.
....................................................... Demar,
Sun to Thurs 7 to Midnight. Call SEE THE NEWSLETTER FOR ........................................................ 
Is It "just me and you and a

MORE INFO. DON'T MISS ITIII
6283 (OBUD) At the NO Library FOUR MORE TORTURES OF PAT
I PERSONALS J 
dog named Boo" (alias Mr. B.)

YOU DESERVE SOME FUNII
10to 11 :45 pm. All student Volun­BORCHERS tonight?
teers. 5) BEING HIS ROOMMATE 
L WANTED 
Kwlckl

THERE ARE A LIMITED
USE ITII!!II 6) BEING HIS MOTHER 
I Anyone who~; co~;;;;;;·s;~;;;~; 
P.S. Do you walk to school orcar­

AMOUNT OF SEATS LEFT ON
DON'T BE AFAID TO CALLI 7) KISSING HIM (ICKIII} 
Valentine can collect their ry your lunch?
······················································· THE N.J. CLUB BUS FOR 
8) SEEING HIM IN THE SHOWER Needed: Ride to Houston for refund from 6-7 p.m. In Crowley 
SPRING BREAK. THE BUS GOES 
USED & OUT-OF-PRINT BOOKS PAT "OXY 10" BORCHERS FOR
Spring break. Will share the Hall. Ava
TO EAST BRUNSWICK AND
bought, sold, searched. UMOC
"usual". Call Kathy (41-4291) Are you going to Introduce
N.Y.C. COST IS $73.00 ROUND
ERASMUS BOOKS. lues-BORCHERS TORTURES! 
....................................................... INSTANT CASH PAID FOR Glbbey to John Galt -the Econ
TRIP. CALL KEVIN AT 7687 OR
Sunday, 12·6. 1027 E. Wayne Stay at the lovely ABAD ABODE CLASS RINGS, $20-$85 OR major (ccon? Ecnomlcs. I
CHRIS AT 4479 BETWEEN 6 AND
(One block south of Eddy­In Daytona Beach for Spring MORE. WE MAKE HOUSE know... ) 
10 P.M. FOR MORE INFO. 

Jefferson Intersection) Kwlckl
Break. Will provide free food and CALLS. 255-2402. SENIOR BAR II 
........................................................ 
lodging at my home In Daytona If FOOSBALL TOURNAMENT II 
HEY ALL NEW JERSEYIANS: 
MORRISSEY LOAN FUND you give me a ride (or will share THE FULFILLMENT OF THE FOOSBALL TOURNAMENT II Laura Holland, 
THE N.J. CLUB IS HAVING A
Emergency loans for NO stu­expenses and driving). Call Greg PROMISE DEPENDS ON FAITH.• LAST DAY TO SIGN UP IS SAT. What? Today Is the big 1-9? So 
HAPPY HOUR TODAYIII COME
dents. $20.$200. One percent Abad 8101. FEB. 21. DOUBLES AND when are we going to Farrell's?
OUT AND HAVE SOME FUN. SEE
Interest. De In one month. Open SINGLES COMPETITION JACK We all must pig out on pig
THE NEWSLETTER FOR MORE
11 :30-12:30. M-F. Basement of Wanted: Ride to Dallas or kooblng is normal and natural. DANIELS FOR THE WINNERS troughsII (Check out those snout
INFOIll

LaFortne. Final day fo seniors to surrounding area for Spring don't be ashamed If you like to AND SOME LOSERS II marks!) Happy B-daylapply Is Friday, March 13. Break. Will share expenses. koob. Your roomies
LINDA
Please call 4606 anytime. 

······················································· I want to apologize for my be-·
HEY ALL NEW JERSEYIANS: JANE-Q, Cypress:
havlor last Saturday at the SMC 
COME TO THE N.J. CLUB HAPPY Desperately need ride to Dallas WHY DO YOU HATE SCOOP? You asked for It Bob! You can drink a Boilermaker
Valentine Party. In my drunken
HOUR THIS FRIDAY FEBRUARY or any surrounding area as well as visit one. Our party
state I was more obnoxious than
20. SEE THE NEWSLETTER FOR 
(Including At"kansas or Ok· terl mlchleluttl, goes on the road!
usual. It Is not often that I meet a
MORE INFOIII lahoma) for spring break. Will I want to marry that girl congrats on maintaining your "Capri"
girl of your caliber and I want to
share cost. Michele 41-5110 lovely feminine form as suc­
see more of you. Call me at 3459. 
CRYSTAL ROCKS Friday & TO THE BASKETBALL TEAM: Yours always cessfully as you have so far. Bunky,Saturday nights at Mardi Gras. DESPERATELY NEEDED 2 OR 3 You are still GRRRREATI Kelly, JOE may you continue to do so for What do hair, teeth, and feet ....................................................... TICKETS FOR THE N.D-U.V.A . Orlando, Billy, Digger, countless eons to comet happy
Tracy, have In common? -OPEN A DOOR TO THE SOP­BASKETBALL GAME. EX­you are still gods. M.K. llr Sue birthday. z
JULIE OLINGER WILL BE
HOMORE LITERARY FESTIVAL· DOMER WANTS TO SEE THE from Lyons scoop
ACCEPTING KISSES AND
-march 1·7 
GAME. ANYONE WITH TICKETS ps-don't get plowed If you don't Mr. & Mrs. John F. Sweeney
DRINKS TOMORROW IN
··········································•············ PLEASE CALL RAY 283-6652 HOW FAR CAN $6 SEND YOU? HONOR OF HER 21st BIRTHDAY. want to, even If It Is medicinally would like to announce the mar­JOB OPENING for dependable ALL THE WAY TO NEW OR· helpful... ..... riage of their son, John, NO foot­
BE SURE AND HELP HER OUT. 
person to work In college related Need ride to Phllly, York, or D.C. LEANS! SMC SENIOR CLASS ball stud, to himself. Says John, bookstore. 25 • 30 hrs. a week. area for spring break. Can leave PRESENTS A SUITCASE Zurch, "I've never been so happy."
Augusta this
PANDORAS BOOKS, 937 S. by ~11. Call Jr-1177 PARTY! FEB. 26 AT LEE'S. OPEN HOUSE at Have a happy birthday and
Sunday, 2-4 p.m. for Interested
Bend Av. 233-2342 CHECK POSTERS FOR TICKET take up sports, OK? Knees:
Saint Mary's students!

Need ride to Springfield Ohio LOCATIONS. Sully Have some t juice and love. BIG BOOK SALE on all theology area on Feb 27128 Will pay for Skinny
"VIncent the Comforter:The Min­
titles. bks.

and science Used gas. Call Rich 1421. EVEN A ROOM IN MOTEL E A move to ban all Scoop Sullivan
Istry of Vincent van Gogh".Frl. Branda for UMOC50 I off or 2 for 1 use price. New 
COSTS $11.951 SECOND PRIZE mush personals from this
Washington Hall-8pm. Il­HEY! REAL PARTY GIVERS, bks. 20 I off. PANDORAS Need ride to Dallas area for SENDS YOU TO THE SENIOF lustrated presentation by HENRI newspaper Is underway -help Why haven't you thrown a realBOOKS, 937 S. Bend Av. 233-spring break. Will share ex· FORMAL SMC SENIOR CLASS stamp out Scoop before he
NOUWEN. Free. party at night like the 8-Cers?
2342 penses. Call rona at 3704. SUITCASE PARTY AT LEE'S makes us all violently Ill. 
Afraid of the dark? Whooooollll
FEB. 26. 

" .•.and I'm wasted and I can't ...............................................................
TYPING-$.65 a page. Also Need ride to Purdue for the FEATHER· the sly scumpuppy;
find my way home." Who says BOB SENIOR: professional resumes done. Call weekend of weekend of Feb. Its Friday and we all know what that, you may ask? No, it's not voluptuous queen of micro Is wil­WELCOME TO THE NOTREDan, 272-5549. 27,28. Will share expenses. Call that means. Stanford 3EW will be ling to help any econ major max­
Eric, It's TR on a Friday night out DAME SCENE. GOOD LUCK Liz· 8911 at egeln with Portaparty Ill. at the bars. Imize their Investment. She's got 
THIS WEEKEND ... 

.......~................................................ the curves-areal"macro" body GORDON 
LINDA THOMPSON: CRYSTAL with great distribution. Ken she
Thanks for the fun In the fog... I ........................................................ ----­
--·-··· .. ........................

rocks you tonight at Mardi Gras! help you? Call6232. 
hope we didn't bother the ducks Did anyone see AI Big (niceWill you be my groupie?
!LOST/FOUND I I FOR SALE too much. At least THEY can pugII alsm) at the bars last night?
Luv,Leo WATCH OUT PREPSII TWO
waste time sleeping in the mor­Oh, you did. That's a surprise, 
~----------------------------~ PEOPLE, AN OFF-CAMPUS
ning. Have a good time tomor­he's always zipping about fromFOUND: ONE SET OF KEYS ON 
PITTSBURGHES • THERE WILL SENIOR & ON-CAMPUS FROSH, 
rrow, but PAY ATTENTION when place to place.
ORANGE RING NEAR CAMPUS 
BE A PITTSBURGH CLUB HAVE THE OUTSTANDING 
you go Into bars! .......................................................
VIEWAPTS. CALL 1816 ARMSTRONG FLUTE. USED OC­PARTY IN FLANNER'S COM­ABILITY TO DETECT YOUR Today's Architects' Moose 
...................c ••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• CASIONALLY. $400 OR BEST MONER THIS FRIDAY NIGHT PECULIAR CHARACTERIS. Joke:
LOST: ONE 14 KT. GOLD OFFER. 232-97821N EVENINGS. (FEB. 20). ALL MEMBERS ARE TICS .... SO, BEWAREII DON'T
PEOPLE. (The BCAs had theirs, arkles
BRACELET WITH INITIALS. FREE. (BRING SOME POOF TO WOR'RY THOUGH, THEY STILL
PEOPLE WHO NEED PEOPLE. deserve one, too)
PLEASE CALL 4336. For Sale: 1980 Raleigh Super SHOW THAT YOU'RE FROM PIT· NEED MORE PRACTICE II
GET THEMSELVES A POM· Q: Who Is the greatest architect
....................................................... Grand Prix bicycle with new TSBURGH). BE THERE! 
PADOUR . In the Yukon? ,
LOST: EYEGLASSES, RIMLESS, Brooks seat. $250 or reasonable ....................................................... OTIS IS GROTEST
AND KNOW WHEN TO FOLD UP. A: Moose van der Rohe, natural-BROWN CASE, 127 offer. Call 232-6433 after 10:30 TERRIBLE TOWELES • DON'T Mike "chuck norris" Burton ly.
NIEUWLANO, LAST THURSDAY. p.m. or write to Owen Lippert, FORGET ABOUT THE PIT· Note: A "Moosetrap personal" (Thanks to Stevie Hurn andCALL JOE 1183. Dept. of History, Campus. TSBURGH CLUB PARTY was here. The line's been used.
. LONG ISLAND CLUB BUS for Davey Sacha, according to the........................................................ ....................................................... TONIGHT IN FLANNER'S COM­Moose ControlSpring break, sign-ups on Tues­printed crayon markings on thisLOST: AT BP PARTY FRIDAY MONER. MEMBERS ARE 
day, February 24 at 7:00 PM. letter I received the other day.)
NIGHT, RED SCARF.
PLAID FREEl!I Notice from the Latin
Little Theatre, La Fortuune. Must Moose ControlPLEASE CALL 1284. 
........................................................ Bombshell: Men needed
pay full amouunt when signing
I 
TICKETS

·········-························..·················· SENIOR BAR LADIES NIGHT up. desperately-my supply Is dwin­REN.eG"ioe.cows·;;~~id·i~~,·~ 1
LOST: MEN'S FUR LINED LEAT­
FRIDAY SENIOR BAR LADIES dling. I'm actually down to two.
....................................................... soon chew somebody else's cud
HER GLOVES IN BP ON JUNIOR 
NIGHT FRIDAY SENIOR BAR Please make a shortstop to the
Maryann Zurcher needs a asthelrown.
PARENTS WEEKEND. CALL Need Many Dayton tlx. Call LADIES NIGHT FRIDAY casa de Iniquity and check out
birthday kiss. 

1284. Monica at 41-5154. "Bolzano ······················································· 
........................................................ my -Welerstrau" MOOSE CONTROL IM­
A RAFFLE FOR THE WOMEN theorems. Hurry • 1 may wear
······················································· David, PERIALISTS:
LOST: ELECTRIC TIMEX I NEED MANY DAYTON TIX, AND DRINK SPECIALS FOR myself out.
Happy Birthday, Sweetheart! We THE RED-HEADED POACHERWATCH, BLACK BAND, ON STUDENT AND GA-PLEASE EVERYONE WOMEN COllE ONE are really on our way. lleve you COL ZERO MAX GIVES YOU 32SATURDAY NIGHT AROUND CALL BETH AT 1715 OR 2n-COME ALL FRIDAY NIGHT Scunge Man, always. Little one. DAYS TO MEND YOUR WAYS. IF
SOUTH QUAD. CALL KEN, 3779. 8037. ....................................................... How did you like
........................................................ MOOSE PERSONALS DO NOT 
......................................................... Zurch, EVERYBODY'S ~llermaker?
BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL CEASE, WE WILL HAVE NO OT·LOST: GREEN JADE HEART Need 4-6 tickets for Dayton. Will Homesickness couldn't kep B.K.
SIGNUPS ORIGNALLY WERE HER CHOICE BUT TO LAUNCHCHARM between McCandless pay big$$$. Call Joe 4625 you down; appendicitis couldn't TAKEN OVER THE PHONE IN THE FINAL OFFENSIVE...
Parking Lot and LeMans. Great keep you down; losing me Scunge Man, How does It feel to
ROOM 151 MORRISSEY••• ....................................................... 
sentimental value. Please call NEED 2 VIRGINIA TIXI WILL PAY couldn't keep you down; but the come where every man has CAPTAIN AXE ·and the evfl Teresa at 4788. ANYTHING CALL PAT AT 234 drinks we're gonna put In your ······················································· gone before? Scunge Control. 
ASSASSIN IS COMINGIIIII As­MOOSE CONTROLLERS: DIE, 
........................................................ 9657 AFTER 7:00 system Saturday-now that will 
SASSIN IS COMINGIIIIII DIE, DIE 
LOST: A T.l. calculator, probably keep you downlll Happy It's her 21st birthday.•. Even 
······················································· 

around South Dining Hall. NEED STUDENT OR GA'S FOR Birthday, Wisconsin Womanlll ······················································· Tracy needs PASSION! Happy atlantL••ATLANTA••. atlanta 
same aslt ever wu 

Please call Ann, 8163. DAYTON. CALL BRIAN TUCKER Love, Birthday Traut Love US. P.S. are you going TO or THROUGH 
....................................................... 234-0711. LEAVE A MESSAGE! Your famous friend In B-P ······················································· Drink "lots" of beerl this spring break??? take me
Moosery loves company(?) 
with you•.• JEB 8641 or8630FOUND: An off white glove atthe The Lone Moose 

\

ACC after the UCLA game. Ann need 1 or 2 tickets for VIRGINIA Ann Landers says: Teresa ATLANTA ... atlanta. ..ATLANTA
........................................................ 
8163. or DePaul vs NO Pay BIG $$$ Have • problem? Can't sleep? My lovely little Italian lenuce
1went to a dance last Saturday
Call Tlen 272·7447 · Can't work? Can't? Killed .......................................................
........................................................ lady, I watch you every evening
night

LOST: Tl 58C CALCULATOR IN anyone recently? Constipated? from afar. The tall, dark LIZ, HAPPY BIRTHDAY Ill LOVE,
My girl was so ugly she gave 
JUDYNORTH DINING HALL ON NEEDEDII 2 DAYTON GA TIX Fall down and go boo-boo? handsome man.

meafrlght

~17181. CALL KAREN AT 1263. FOR PARENTS. GOOD $$$. Well, aH you have to do Ia GET .......................................................
She was big and she was tall 
....................................................... PLEASE CALL FRANK AT 8295. COUNSELING! HI mom & dad, could be bener UGLY MAN IS COMINGI
She plays a mean game o' 
Save your pennies!

LOST: STAINLESS STEEL ($$$) but 1'1! llve... To John,
basketball

PARKER PEN ... WITH Needed 2 or 3 GA Dayton Tlx. UMOC Is en equal opportuntty
SEN· ···········-·········································· She's got a swelled hoad Jeanine Jackie and Jimmie: one 
ch.-tty.

TIMENTAL VALUE .. IF FOUND Please call Michele 41-5110 lynne and jana, big ud-up.•.Bo
She thinks she's hot

PLEASE CALL 8882 ...• thanks for having mary stay ...................................................._.
Well, I know better and I say
....................................................... NEED TIXIRIDE TO VA·ND over this weekend. don't worry, NAZZ MUSIC COMPETITION • 6 MARY CARTER AND COMPANY, 
she's not

LOST; one LEACH raquetball GAMEl! JIM 3349 she's merciful, jana; you won't March 1981 Appllc.UOn WELCOME TO NOTRE DAME. 
Oh, never go out with a female 
racket...brown...lf found please feel • thing. besides, If you're deadline Monday 23 February. MAY YOUR FRIDAY AND
jock

call x•2.... after 11 :00. NEED 4 DAYTON TICKETS, GA nice to her, she might let you Pick up applications In Student SATURDAY HERE BE AS 
........................................................ OR STUDENT. 232-0982 both live. see you later this ······················································· Union Office or at the Nazz. ENJOYABLE AS YOUR SUNDAY 
Bob Fiord aliso, 

LOST: Georgetown jersey lest weekend (unless you see me IN CHICAGO WILL BE
···································•··················· Pie...leave me alone. I don't
first!)

Thursday In ACC Fieldhouse. H Need two Dayton GAs $$$ Jim Lynn Forthaus HATES BIU DEPRESSING.
ftke you, so quit foUowlng me
found, call Jeff 8644. 2n-o331 scoop Dempsey.
around . 

.. .~ 

..'>.; ,. ,., . .. ' ........ 
o' ...
,. ••• ·.. .,-.. . .. •r-/ 
...... 
.~·... " ,.,. """'--. . :~.:_. ')·' :.. . .... -· ! . ..:....·. 



• 

Friday, February 20, 1981 -page 16 

leers to host Colorado College 
I 
By BRIAN BEGLANE 
Sports Writer 

I ' 
'. '' 
Showdown! 


The Athletic and Convocation Center becomes the scene of a fierce Western Collegiate Hockey Association battle for the playoffs tonight and tomorrow when ninth­place Notre Dame plays host to seventh-place Colorado College. 
The Irish, coming off their first WCHA sweep of the year, trail the Tigers by only three points with two weeks remaining in the regular season. Notre Dame is looking to at least latch on to the number-eight spot -the last qualifying position for the playoffs -after this weekend. The four points on the line here this week could determine the playoff hopes for either team. ­


Face-off both nights at the ACC is scheduled for 7:30p.m. EST and plenty of tickets remain available. ND-SMC students may purchase reduced tickets for $2.50 at the door. 
Notre Dame set the stage for this week's showdown by sweeping . I Michigan State last week, 4-2 each 
' 


night. It was Notre Dame's first
" 
sweep of a league opponent this ,. year. The Irish gained two points
•., on Colorado College, which split with Wisconsin (losing 4-3 in overtime and winning 4-2 ), and four points on Minnesota-Duluth, which was swept by Michigan. The Irish trail eighth place Duluth by only one point and both Notre Dame and Colorado College will be keeping a watchful eye on this week's series between frrst-place Minnesota and Minnesota-Duluth. It takes place in Minneapolis. 
The Irish are 8-1 5-1 in the WCHA and 12-18-2 overall 

"We have to be pleased with our play last week," says Irish coach Lefty Smith. "Michigan State took the first lead each night, but we fought back both times. Everybody gave 100 percent, and we were playing with more than our shareof injuries." 
"It was very encouraging to see us come back as we did," said Smith. "We needed a sweep desperately and we got it. Now we have to set our minds on doing the same thing this week against Colorado College. We an put our­selves into the playoff picture. I would hope being on home ice helps out also." 
The Irish bring a 1-8-1 home record against WCHA teams into this weekend's series. On the road, Notre Dame is 7-7-0 against league opponents. 
Notre Dame oened the season at Colorado College with a split. The Tigers won the first night, S-4, while the Irish took the second game 6-2. Notre Dame leads the rivalry, which began in 1970, 25­14-1. 
For the Tigers, Tom Frame and Randy Strutch have been splitting in goal, while Bruce Aikens ranks 
as  the  WCHA's  fourth  leading  
scorer.  
Injury-wise  for  Notre  Dame,  

defenseman Scott Cameron is probably out the rest ofthe sea">On with a shoulder injury. He sat out last week. DefensemanJim Brown, goalie Dave Laurion, and forward Dick Olson will sit out. Brown has· an ankle injury; Laurion has been out two weeks with strained knee ligaments; and Olson sat out last week with a knee injury. 
After tis week's series, Notre Dame concludes the regular season at home against Wisconsin. 
78-65 victory 

Iowa beats Indiana 
ket. Krafcisin said he tried to hold Thomas back and as the Indiana guard kept trying to get through, he hit Krafcisin in the face. 
"It was just a reflex more than anything," Krafcisin said. "He came up and apologized later. He said he was sorry and that it was an acci­dent. 
"It's no big deal. It happens all the time," he concluded. 
Krafcisin, who like Thomas is from Chicago, said the incident was out of character for Thomas. He called Thomas "a heck of a player," adding"I don't think he's a crybaby." 
Thomas sl.id he was just trying to get by Krafcisin and noted he had never before been thrown out ofa game. 
"There's just no reason for that type of reaction," he said. "I can't blame the officials. It was just a stupid play." 
Indiana Coach Bobby Knight saw it a little differently, however. He contended Krafcisin grabbed Thomas' jersey before the inci­dent. 
"He was trying to get around 
that (the jersey grabbing)," Knight 
said. "It was not a good play. It sur-e 
was a play you don't want to see, 
but I'm anxious to look at the film. 
I'll reserve judgment until then. 
"I'm sure it will show that he was 
trying to push Steve's arm away to 
get through there." 

After Thomas was ejected with 
39 seconds left, Krafcisin hit two 
free thows to give Iowa a 71-63 
lead. 


The Fighting Irish hockey team, led by goaltender Bob McNamara, willface Colorado College in a Crucial WCHA series tonight and tomorrow at the ACC. (photo byjohn Macor) 
Incoming frosh for Faust's first team 
By DAVE IRWIN 
Sports Writer 

Wednesday was the first day that high school football players could sign national letters of intent and The Observer was able to learn the names of 18 of those signees. Yes­terday The Observer gained the names of five more recruits who plan to continue their student­athlete roles at Notre Dame. 
It is believed that Notre Dme has 
received national letter-of-intents 
from 24 student-athletes. Repor­
tedly the Irish are seeking to sign at 
least two more prospects and pos­
sibly a third. 

Heading the list of names that The Observer acquired Thursday ls Parade all-American Mike Gano from Lakewood, Colorado. Gann, a 6-5 235-pound defensive end, was considered one of the top two players in the state. He had signed a non-binding conference letter with the University of Oklahoma, before changing his mind. 
Kevin Sherman, the second quarterback the Irish have signed thus far, was the Colorado Playerof the Year. Sherman, hailing from Colorado Springs, led his team tc the No. 1 ranking in Class 4A (the state's largest) and in the proces_ was named first team aU-State by the Denver-Post. He completed 114 tosses out of 21 5 tries for a completion rate of 53 percent while being intercepted just nine times. Sherman accounted for an amazing 33 touchdowns -20 by the air and another 13 rushing. 
Notre Dame added some bulk with the signin!; af}ay Underwood. Underwood, a 6-5 240-pound tackle, calls Danville, Virginia his hometown. He was named to Scholastic's all-American team. 
In Brian Behmer, Notre Dame 
signed its ninth player from Ohio. 
Behmer is a 6-6 205-pound wide 
reciever from Brecksville. 
Joe Howard, a 5-9 175-pound defensive back, is from Was­hington, D.C. (Arch Bishop Carroll High School). Howard is con­sidered the best point-guard in the greater Washington area. 
The signing of Gann brings the 
total to 12 Parade all-Americans 
headed to Notre Dame. Obviously 
the Irish are offto a very good start, but according to one well· informed national writer, it is still early in the reruiting process to call it the best. For instance, Geor­gia freshman Herschel Walker didn't sign with the Bulldogs untill May. And he turned out to be player ofthe year. 
"It is one ofNotre Dame's better ones," Joe Terranova, who follows the national recruiting scene, said. "Untill all the chips fall it is hard to say it is the best. At the very least you could say it is.a typical Notre Dame recruiting season. If some other kids sign it could make it the top." 
One man that could turn this recruiting season from one of the best to THE best is Parade all­American Van Pearcy. Pearcy, a running/back-wide receiver from Andrews, Tex., is a world-class run­ner owning a personal best of 9. 5 in the 100-yard dash and a 46.9 in the 440-yard dash. He has also long-jumped 24-6. 
"Van will put the icing on the cake," Gerry Faust, Notre Dame head coach said. 
Percy should have no problems with Notre Dame's admission office either -should he decide to sign -after compiling a 4.0 grade point average in high school. 
Irish assistant coach Brian Boulac is in Andrews and plans o~ staying until the talented Pearcy chooses between Notre Dame and Southen Methodist. Pearcy had signed a non-binding conference letter-of-intent to SMU. However, an investigation of the SMU ath­letic department by the NCAA has prompted Pearcy to reconsider. 
Reportedly Aaron Roberts, a running back from Detroit Cat­holic Central, has narrowed his chooses down to Notre Dame and the University of Michigan. Roberts, yet another Parade all­American, is considered among the top five running backs in the country. 
jack DelRio, from Hayward, California, js also interested in Notre Dame. He, however, is an ex· cellent basketball player and is yet undecided upon which sport to even pursue in college. 
T and A to aid runs 
By MA1T HUFFMAN 
Sports Writer 
Teamwork and attitude are the watchwords for this weekends Central Collegiate Conference meet at Ann Arbor, Michigan 
"We want to try and qualify both 
· -our distance medley and two-mile relay for the NCAA's" says head coach Joe Piane. "Our attitude is excellent right now, and that al­ways helps you to run better." With the team in a top mental and physical state the chances are better than good that both squads will run well enough to qualify. The NCAA Indoor Track Cham­pionships are scheduled for March I 3-14 in Detroit, Mich. The two-mile relay squad is made up of seniors Chuck Aragon and Tim Macauley, junior Rick Rodgers, and sophmoreJim Moyar. The same team ran 7:36.0 at the Knights of Columbus meet two weeks ago. The qualifying time is 
7:33.0 so each half-miler will have 
to cut about three-fourths of a second off their individual splits to make te cut. 
. The distance medley consists of a half-mile run, followed by a quar· ter, a three quarter and finishs with a mile. Jacques Eady will join Aragon, Macauley, and Rogers and will run the 440 leg of the event. The qualifying time is 9:49.0. 
The mile is the most important leg of the race not only because it is the last but also because it is the longest. The extra length enables the anchorman to make up any dis­tance that might have been built up in previous legs. Running the last 1760 yards for the Irish will be Aragon who last week at the Big 
• State meet set a new school record of4:03.11 in the mile. 

Macauley has not run the three­quarters competitvely this season. However, assuming that each of the other membes of the team can run their best, and allowing for 
See RUNNERS, page 14 

,.. 
l. 
I. 

I' 
~~ 
r 
)\ 
, I'~ 
IOWA CITY, Iowa (AP) -In­diana Guard Isiah Thomas was ejected from Thursday nigbt's Big Ten Conference basketball game with Iowa after hitting the Haw­keyes' Steve Krafcisin in the face in the final minute ofthe contest. 
Thomas, a 6-1 sophomore, apologized to the 6-1 0 Krafcisin af­ter the game, and Krafcisin brushed off the incident, calling it "no big deal." 
The incident occurred as Iowa was wrapping up a 78-65 victory to leave the Hawkeyes in sole posses­sion offirst place and push Indiana into a tie for second with Illinois. 
With Iowa leading 69-63, Thomas was trying to get open be­tween the free throw line and bas-
Hockey tickets 
discounted 
The Notre Dame Athletic Department has announced that students may purchase tickets for this weekend's home hockey series with Colorado College at a reduced price. The usual S4 tickets can be purchased for only S2. SO at the door (with student identifica­tion) both tonight and tomor­
. row night. Faceoff for both 
~ ga~~s ls7,30 

~~--=--~~--~---------------------------------------------------­
I. I 



