• • .Tenure-page6 

Polish union seeks free media 
North Koreans fire missile at U.S. plane 
WARSAW,  Poland (AP)  - The  Communist Party chief SUnislaw  
Polish  government  and  Solidarity  Kania warned in a speech televiStd  
marked the opening of talks yester­ Wednesday  that  the  government  
day on the issue of the independent  will not allow its monopoly on the  
union's  access  to  the  state-run  media to be broken nor will it stand  
mass media with a bitter exchange ofthreats.  for anyone to "paralyze" the nation's communications system.  
Solidarity said in a statement that  Solidarity insisted on accCIII to the  
the government has started "an un­precedented anti-union campaign" and direct access to the mass media  mass media to be able to warn Poland of"the specterofstarvll.tion." Food shortages, the most visible  
is needed to counter it.  symbol of the nation's devastated  
The government contended Solidarity is coqducting a  economy, have prompted demonstrations and strikesin recent  
propaganda campaign of Its  own.  weeks.  
"There was Indeed a campaign, but  The year-old independent union,  
it was directed against the party and  the first ofits kind in the Soviet bloc,  
the government," a commentary In  has said it will call either a six-day  
the official PAP news agency said.  printers' strike or a blackout of the  
In what appeared to be an attempt  national radio and television unless  
to  postpone  substantive  negotia­ it receives direct access.  
tions, a Solidarity official said government press spokesman Jerzy Urban told the union's representa­tive he "had no time" for more dis­ In a communique, the national Solidarity leadership charged the government with stirring up ten­sions by provoking local confticts  
A truc·k transferring chemicals to a helicopter to be used  California. See related story page 3. (AP)  cussions Friday. The union official said Urban added he might continue the preliminary talks Saturday. - such as the one in Olsztyn where holdouts from last week's two-day printers' strike still refuSt to print the Communist Party's newspaper. The union sentJacek Kuron, head  
Soutli accuses nortll  of the dissident Committee:: for So­cial Self-defense and a trouble­ 
shooter on  tough labor Issues,  to  

Olsztyn to try to persuade the prin­ters to return to work. SoiJdarity's national printers' coordinatingcom­spokesman Park Chong-shik claimed the Armistice Commission, which
SEOUL, South Korea (AP) -United States is contacting the mission has offered to call a 
the alleged missile attack, as well as
South Korea on Thursday accused oversees the truce between North Chinese and Soviet governments "to nationwide strike Saturday If the 
the reported intrusion of North and South Korea. In Washington,
North Korea of "serious military request that they convey our deep dispute is not settled. 
Korean MIG jet fighters over Paen­
provocation" in the firing of a State Department spokesman Dean concern over this incident to North In an effort to push for a week of missile at an American spy plane and ghyong Island Aug. 21, "proved that Fischer said the meeting was called Korean authorities and that North labor calm before the union opens warned against any further the communist North is always "to protest directly to the North Korea avoid any repetition of such its first congress Sept. 5, Kuron met 
committing military adventures." Koreans this violation of the 1953
"reckless" actions. dangerous activity." Thursday with the Olsztyn stri.ldng 
The United States branded the The military command charged armistice agreement." The SR-71, which can fly at better printersand told them they were the missile incident an "act of lawless­on Aug. 21 that two North Korean The commission was established than 2,000 mph, can photograph first to defy a national appeal to ness" by the communist North MIG-21s had flbwn over Paen­to deal with violations of the truce 
wide areas from altitudes over return to work. 
Korean government and said that ghyong, a U.N.-controlled island that ended the fighting in the 1950­80,000 feet. The United States never The Olsztyn printers are protest­during the mission Wednesday, the about 125 miles west of Seoul, but 53 Korean war. At past meetings, has acknowledged any SR-71 flights ing a local television report that theySR-71 "Blackbird" spy plane was al­fled when South Korean planes North Korea has charged that over North Korea, but there have used force to prevent non-Sol.ldarity 
ways In dther international or South scrambled to intercept them. American planes violated its air been repeated allegations of such printers from working during the Korean airspace. The Pentagon said "Our armed forces will closely space. 
operations. two-day strike. 
the missile missed its target by miles watch future North Korean move­The command said North Korea and the plane landed safely. ments and are fully prepared to had not yet replied to the request for 
For hours after the Incident the counter any reckless North Korean a meeting tomorrow at Panmunjom, Pentagon had not directly accused provocation," the Defense Ministry the truce village in the demilitarized the North Koreans of firing at the spokesman said, adding: "we hereby zone dividing the North and South. plane, but said the missile could issued a stem warning that in case In a dispatch from the North have come from any of a number of the North continues such provoca­Korean capital of Pyongyang, the launching sites in North Korea. It tions, It should be held entirely Japanese news service Kyodo said said the SR-71 was on a routine mis­responsible for all consequences." there was no mention of the report sion. The U.S. military command, in North Korea's news media. 
South Korean Defense Ministry meanwhile, called for a meeting of In Washington, Fischer said the 
Cattle prods used 

Cons claim confessions forced 
BESSEMER, ala. (AP)-The cattle A cattle prod consists ofa handle, to his groin area five times. prods that became symbols ofSouth· a slender metal tube containing Gates Pritchett contends officers ern resistance to the civil rights from six to 10 1.5-volt "C" batteries Billy Ray Smith and Lamar Cruse movement in the 1960s -along and two prongs at the end. The beat him on June 4 and that Smith with police dogs and fire hoses -prongs are touched to the skin and stood on his hand while Cruse are still being used by Bessemer the switch Is pushed to send an applied a prod to his chest and groin pollee to torture prisoners, a federal electrical charge. area eight times. lawsuit contends. The suit claims that on May 7, Amos Lee McCrary says that on 
Police officials in this industrial Alfred Washington was physically May 7, Cruse beat him and that Ack­city of 33,000, neighboring Birmin­beaten by officers Steve Crump apd. 1 er applied a prod between his legs gham, deny the allegations. The and on his hands. public safety commissioner says it's 
Washington and McCrary have a political ploy. been Indicted on burglary charges 
Three prisoners, in a suit filed in FRIDA and Pritchett has been bound over 
early August in federal court at Bir­to a Jefferson Countygrand jury on a mlnghar:n. are asking $250,000 each burglary charge. from the city and four Bessemer of­Former Police Chief George Bar­

~FOCUS 
fleers, claiming they suffered "pain, ----------·---ron said between 60 and 70 of the humiliation and mentatanguish" at prods were bought during the early the hands of policemen who used Doug Acker. Acker, 'the suit con­1960s "more or less for crowd con-cattle prods to try to extract confes­tends, forced Washington to pull sions. down his pants and then put a prod See surr'page 4 • 
ND grads take on landlord 
By MICHAEL WILKINS dows nalled shut, no screens in News Staff the windows, no locks on the doors, and a poorly built front 
A trial date has been set in a door. 
housing suit filed by three NO Because of this, the women ­
women which stems from an al­who are represented by Notreleged breach of contract that 
Dame Legal Aid -are suing for a they charge resulted in substan­return of their noo initial 

dard housing conditions. 
deposit
Theresa Mary Power, Denise Schroeter has Wed a coun­

Haradem, and Marla Gomez, all of terclaim charging that the former
whom graduated from Notre students still owe him one
Dame last year, charge that their month's rent plus 1327 informer landlord, David J. 
damages. Schroeter's attorneySchroeter of Granger, failed to stated in court yesterday,make contracted repairs to the however, that Schroeter ls wil­residence they rented from him. 

ling to accept 1252 in his coun­But the women, who appeared tersuit

in South Bend Small Claims Court yesterday, were unable to The women refused that offer, produce that contract. as well as a court-proposed offer 
The women said they rented instructing Schroeter to pay the residence in May of 1980 them $1 50. They said they would with the understanding that accept a payment of 1250. lbat Schroeter would improve what offer was taken into considera­
they said were deficlences In the tion by Schroeter's attorney. property. In August, however, The trial was Stt for 2 p.m. the women said they found win-Monday, September 28. 





l\T~~Sc~==t:==i=~~~=S========~========================&=id=a=y,=A=u=~=st=2=s=,I=9=B=I==p=a=ge~ 
by The Observer and The Auociated Press 
Belize, the last British colony in Central 
America, will become independent on Sept. 21, despite lack of final 
approval from neighboring Guatemala, the Foreign Office in London 
said Thursday. 

But the door remains open for fresh negotiations on an amicable 
agreement answering Guatemala's traditional claim of sovereignty 
over the tropical colony of about 180,000 people, a spOkesman said. 
Belize, formerly British Honduras, has had self-government since 
1964 but full independence was delayed because of the Guatemalan 
claim. 

In the most recent British-Guatemalan talks, which took place in New York last month, "we were unsuccessful in resolving the problems but there was a cordial atmosphere and the door is still open for negotiations to continue," said Foreign Office spokesman Brian Bowley. -AP 
{ 

The Social Democratic Party's youth wing 
Thursday called for a mass demonstration by West Germans to protest 
the Reagan administration's "peace-endangeringpolicy." 
Astatement by the YoungSocialists said the p t rotest would be held 
Sept. 13 when Secretary ofState Alexander M. HaigJr. is scheduled to 
visit the western sector ofBerlin. 
The Young Socialists said they believed Reagan was pursuing a 
polky of confrontation with the Soviet Union that would lead to a 
"dangerous sharpening'' ofthe national situation. -AP 
Gone With the Wind for four days, Scarlet O'Hara is 
back where she belongs, nibbling grapes. 
Scarlet, a South American macaw worth $2,500, was stolen from Ed 
Bohemler's Topsfield bird shop on Sunday. Yesterday, she was back 
and her kidnapper was under arrest. 
Scarlet rolled her pink eyes when she was returned to Bohemler, 
and squawked,"Happy, appy, happy." 
Police arrested Arthur Todisco, 19, of Boston, who was charged 
with receiving stolen property worth more than $100. 
Officers said they found Scarlet munching bird seed in a nine-foot 
cage in Todisco's apartment Wednesday, four days after she was kid· 
napped 

Bohemler told the police Todisco came to the shop Saturday and 
was put offby Scarley's $2,500 price tag. He promised to return, said 
Bohemler. The next day the bird disappeared. -AP 
Elevated bedswill be permitted to stand as high as seven feet, said Vice-president for Student Affairs Fr. John Van Wolvlear in a letter to Hall Presidents Council Chairman Mike Martin. But the student-built beds must still be at least three feet from the ceiling, in accordance with Dulac regulations. The change in the regulation, which originally stipulated that beds could stand no higher than six feet, came as a result ofan HPC request to that effect. -AP 
Fires set by riotersin the urban violence that erupted in several cities last month destroyed property valued at $8.3 million, the British Insurance Association reported yesterday. The riots erupted in London, liverpool, Manchester and other cities. -AP 
An anti-abortion groupwill protest to the Vatican because a group ofnuns are backing a women's rights rally. 
The New Hampshire Right to Ufe Committee called it "disgraceful" 
that the Sisters of Mercy is among more than 90 groups sponsoring a 
rally on Saturday to protest violence against women. 
"We will be sending information on them to Rome," said Commit­
tee President Barbara Kerouac. The nuns' involvement is improper, 
she said, because "anti·life and pro-homosexual" groups are also spon­
sors. 

But SisterJoanne Bibeau said the Sisters ofMercy felt they "would 
be very negligent" ifthey didn't fight violence a~ainst women. -AP 
WhennuDOrs beganto spread that Northern Indiana Public Service Co. might scrap its controversial Bailly nuclear power plant, state Rep. Bill Drozda decided to "clean my house for a victory party and keep my fingers crossed." 
Drozda, a Gary Democrat and outspoken anti-nuclear critic said he 
wanted to be ready for a celebration when the formal announcement 
came. 

That occurred Wednesday afternoon when NIPSCO president Ed­
mond Schroer announced the firm would end the project that has 
encountered 10 years oflegal battles. The unfinished plant is located 
on the shores ofLake Michigan near Burns Harbor. 
Schroer said NIPSCO's board members voted to shutdown the plant 
because ofcosts. 

Drozda said that more than 200 party·goers celebrated Wednesday 
night. 

Many local political figures, NIPSCO construction workers and uni­
on officials -all opponents of the nuclear power plant -attended 
the party, he said. -AP ­

Tom Gerspach, the driver of the Long Island baggage truck that crashed and flipped on its side when its btakes failed on the Ohio Turnpike, said yesterday that he is "seriously considering" press­ing chargesagainst the U-Haul company that leased him the truck. The club, which was insured for $10,000 in the venture, said it does not plan to take the U-Haul company to court. Gerspach, however, who says "I was in the truck just as much as their baggage was," insists that the club should stand behind him.In his suit if he decides to press charges. He plans to contact the Notre Dame Legal Aid department for legal advice in the case. -Tbe Oberver 
Showers and a few thunderstorms likely Friday. High in the mid to upper 70s. A 50 percent chance for thun· derstorms Friday night. Low in the mid 60s. Scattered thunderstorms Saturday. High in the mid to upper 70s. -AP 
~------------------------------~ 
~The_Ohserxer_ 
Design Editor ...................... Maura Murphy Design Assistant ................ Usa Bontempo Typesetter .......................................... RonJoe News Editor ........................ Tim VcrccUotti Copy EdUon........................... Paula Groves 
TJ.Conlcy 
Sports Copy Editor ............... Gary Graascy Systems Control ................... Bruce Oakley AdDesign ................................. Fran & Mary Pbotograpber ............................ Beth Prczlo Guest Appearances .................. Cartoonists illustrators ctal 
The Observer (USPS 598 920) 1s published Monday through Fnday except dunng exam and vacatiOn penods. The Observer is published by the students of Notre Dame and 
· Sam! Mary·s College Subscriptions may be purchased lor $30 per year ($15 per semester) by wnling The Ob­server, P 0. Box 0. Notre Dame. In­diana 46556. 
The Observer 1s a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction nghts are reserved. 

\._________________ 
.-~--------------~ 
I Clip this C<q)On! I 
I J 
I i I And getthreegames II(per person) foronlv I 
1 . 3.00 . :
1Bringyour friends along ._, 
1 

I We"U letthem bl on the dealtoo. 1 
•I 3615 N.Main.. QPEN: ! 
. Mishawaka .'&M-:1\llDNtTt: ,
SUN.::NOON-MtDNITE
1 
1

259-4171 ; 1blOck South of Eclieon Road : 
COIJMNEXPIU.S9-IAJ
L 


----------------~ 
Coming out ofour shell 
If you read the editorial page of Wednesday's Ob­server, you know that we are enteringourfifteenth year ofpublication. 
Those years have seenTbe Observer grow from a very 
defensive, unsure, almost underground publication to 
one of the nation's few truly independent newspapers 
and one of the most technologically advanced student 
publications anywhere. Both the amount and quality of 
the editorial content of the newspaper has also grown 
over the years. 
But in some ways, Tbe Observer is still coming out of 
its shell. 
Times have oftep been harsh on Tbe Observer, both financially and otherwise. In fact there have been dan­gerous moments in the pastdecade and-a-halfwhenTbe Obseroer came uncomfortably close to following its predecessor, the .mid-sixties student newspaper Tbe Voice, into editorial-and financial-bankruptcy. 

Because of the sometimes unfavorable climate, Tbe Observer has over the years developed a rather thick, defensive skin:in part to protect itself from outside criticism, and in part to maintain its club spirit. 
I must admit that the skin has often served an in­
valuable service; Tbe Obseroer is still publishing, it is 
still editorially independent, 


negotiated some wide-ranging items that should assure improvements in the quality of the material you read and see every weekday in Tbe Observer. To us, this indl· 'cates that the on-again off·again cold wa.W>etween The Observer and the administration may have entered a new era a detente. Certainly, we look forward to even more improved relations. 
Over the summer Tbe Obseroer opened its facilities to student seminars and group teach-ins and during the next few weeks, several classes from the American Studies Department will tour our facilities as part of their introduction to news writing and communication classes. We welcome this instructional use ofour com­puter system and editorial facilities and encourage any interested group on campus to arrange similar tours if 
they can be helpful in 

and it is financially solvent. 
augmenting classroom in· The time has come in this struction. anniversary year, however As far as individual stu· for us to intensify our efforts dents are concerned, Tbe to crack out ofthat shell and Observer again urges you to 
open ourselves more per­become involved. As one of sonally and professionally to the largest student organiza­the Notre Dame and Saint tions on campus, we can of­Mary's community. / fer a diversity of positions Although we have never ranging from business and tried consciously to isolate circulation to writing and 
ourselves from our reader­desinging. , 
ship, a feeling of mistrust Furthermore, let us put to and distance has sometimes rest forever the false notion risen between our organiza­that The Observer is com· tion and the administration, \~~UJ:W~ei prised of departmental student leaders, and even at cliques. This year's staff time between us and the stu­alignment could not be fur­dent body. Many times this ther from the truth. In fact,
~--~~41/J.fV:.\·
cloud of dissatisfaction has we have suffered an unusual­
had no justification. Other times, there were distinct reasons, with blame shared by our organization and our readers. 
In my time at Tbe Obseroer, I have witnessed the coming of an age of maturity however. The kind of maturity that comes from growing self-confidence and the recognition that your readers are accepting you as a campus institution. Maturation is a never ending process, however, and even though we have the foundation left to us by departed staffs to rest upon, Tbe Observer's .goal is to better serve you through whatever means we have at our disposal. 
Hopefully this year, we will continue to make dramatic strides in opening the door to an even more mature and open relationship with our constituency. 
Some ofthe first steps in this direction were initiated this spring. In a spirit ofcooperationfound onlysparing· ly over the last 15 years, Observerofficials and the Vice­Presidents for Student Affairs and Business Affairs, as well as the University Controller and members of his staff sat down amicably at the meeting table and ly high turnover rate this year and many positions remain open. In such a large and diverse organization, with so many students from different backgrounds and majors working together, there is no room for small cliques. 
There is, however, a place for you. Whether you are a student, a faculty member, a member ofthe staff; or an administrator, Tbe Observer is your newspaper. As we celebrate fifteen years ofsurvival, we invite you to work with us in a renewed spirit ofcooperation to make the future a promising one for us all. 
Observer notes.____..:....---. 
Contrary to a display ad in yesterday's edition of Tbe Obseroer, the sports staffmeeting scheduled for Tuesday (Sept. 1) evening begins at 6 p.m., not 6:30 
p.m. This meeting is for all returning members ofthe sports staff, as well as interested newcomers, who missed the meeting this past Tuesday. 

The Observer Friday, August 28, 1981 -page 3 
Spraying continues 



Med ffies descend on LA 
SAN FRANCISCO ( ap) -Six more adult medflies were found near Los Angeles yesterday, but its Infestation may have been brought under control In the lush San Joa­quin Valley and the San Jose area where It began. 
The latest discovery of Mediter­ranean fruit ftlcs In suburban Los An­geles was announced as officials ended the first round ofaerial spray­lngthere. 
Local agriculture authorities recommended a 165-square-mlle quarantine area be established around Baldwin Park. The state's med.fty eradlcatlon advisers are proposing a 3,600 square mile quarantine zone, more than double tablished in Northern California. 
In recent days, flies also have been found near Oakland, east of here. The Baldwin Park and Oakland areas, 400 miles apart, are the sout­hernmost and northernmost points Invaded by the flies. 
Helicopters dumped pesticide­laced bait over 9 square miles around Baldwin Park on Wednesday night and were to spray malathion over 12 square mlles of Oakland on Thursday night. 
Meanwhile, state agriculture offi­cials said the cost ofbattling the pest could reach S 1.2 billion if the in­festation becomes endemic. 

A & LCol~ege plans London program 
By FRANCES NOLAN , NewsStaff 
Although Information about the new Semester in London program for Arts and Letters juniors is scarce at present an informational meeting for those who are Interested will be held In the near future, according to Acting Dean Robert Burns. Signs announcing the meeting wiU be posted around the campus. 
The College of Arts and Letters has developed this program for juniors primarily because of the many cultural and educational op­portunities In London. 
The program will be conducted 1 
NewiD,s 
increase efficiency 
By COLLEEN PATI 
News.flaff 
The new student Identification system Is designed primarily to en­hance efficiency In the Registrar's office, according to University Registrar Richard Sullivan. 
The new system centers on the use of social security numbers as identification numbers. In previous years, the first three digits of the ID number indicated the student's year and level of entrance. The last six digits ranked students alphabetical­
ly. 
The computer can now al­phabetize a name automatically when presented with a social security number. Sullivan added that the Registrar's office can now give students their ID numbers when they apply to the University, instead ofat registration. . 
Sullivan does not forsee any problems In the transition between the systems. The computer can still use the old identification number to store or give information if it is necessary. 
Shanghai Restaurant in Roseland MonRoiian Barbeque. Szechuan and Mandarin style dinners Sunday 4pm to 9pm 

Mon-Thurs 11 :30am to 9:30pm , Fri-Sat 11 :30am to 10:30pm CARRY OUT SERVICE Luncheon Buffet 

AII you can eat $3.75 11: 30am to 2: 

the size of the zone already es­The cost study, by the UniversitY 
during the spring semester at Notre Dame's London--center in Picadilly. Professors from both Notre Dame and London will teach the courses. Currently, both the Notre Dame Law School and the College of Business are using the London Center. 
There will be courses available in fine arts, social sciences, and religion/phllosophy. The courses and credit hours that students receive will be recorded on their transcripts and will apply toward the students' GPA at Notre Dame. 
Tutorials will be available In each student's major subject and there will be a variety of mini-courses available. 
Students who go to London will be housed In either a block offlats or In one ofthe central London hotels. 
Approximately 140 students have expressed strong interest to date, while 80 or 90 have asked for more information, according to Dean Burns. He hopes to send a group of between 35 to 50 students, which would make this program com­parable in size to the sophomore programs in Angers, France and In­nsbruck, Austria. 
Dean Burns indicated that while students of all Arts and Letters majors expressed interest, the response was strongest in the English, Government, American Studies and Economics Depart­ments. 
It Is not yet known how much the cost of the spring semester in Lon­don will be, but It is expected that it will be covered by the student's ordinary Notre Dame fees. Dean Burns pointed out that students cur­of California at Berkeley Cooperative Extension Service and the marketing services division of the state Department of Food and 


Agriculture, said a permanent in­festation could destroy about 10 percent of the state's S4.1 billion-a­year soft-skinned produce Industry .-primarily peaches, oranges and 
tomatoes. 
State officials continued to insist 
the eradication program was 
working and the pests would soon 
be gone. Only 275 fertile flies have 
been found in two years here. 
The ftles were first discovered in June 1980 in the Santa Clara Valley, a largely residential area south of here. 
Medfly pmject spokesman Richard Stetlan said aerial pesticide spraying appears to have wiped out most of the tiles In that 267-square­mile region. 





RENT TO OWN 
-no down payment -no credit check -monthly payment 

can be done over the phone 
we also have TVs 



Quasar. 
CS7600 A.UD/0 SYSTEM 
• Built-in, front load record/playback Cassette section with Synchro Touch Tape System, Dolby Noise Reduction System, metal tape capability, Multi-function Vu meters, 3·dlgit tape counter • DC Servo Belt Drive Automatic Record Changer with magnetic cartridge. Low Mass S-shaped tone arm • AM/FM-Stereo Radio • 3-way multi tuned port speaker system, 8". 3'12'', 2'h" speak­ers and 3-posilion high frequency level control • Model CS7800. 
···Dolby Labs 




SUN APPLIANCES 
rently employed by the University._ may not receive jobs In England. Students will be responsible for paying for some of the extra costs, 
291-5112
such as theatre tickets, trips outside of London, some bus and under­ground fares, and dally lunches. 
4!Xlam 415a.m 4.30 a.m 5:(Xla.m 10 IS am 5:00a.m 5!5am 5:30am 5·45a m l24Spm 7(XJa.m 7 !5 am 7 :lOam 746am 245pm <HXl aQ1 9 !Sam 930am 945a.m 445pm 11 ()()a,;, 1115am ll:lOa.m 1145am b.45p.m. IOOpm 115p.m 130pm 145pm 9 15p.m 3:(Xl p.m :liS pm 330pm :J45pm bW p.m 1045 pm. _5:00p.m 515pm 530p.m 5.45 p.m H!Xlp.m 
1215am 
FREE PARKING CAll (219) 255-3068 FOR RESERVATIONS 
O'Hare 
$20 
one 
··,way 
1_$38 
HOUND TRIP 

) 
The Observer Friday, August 28, 1981 -page 4 

Examiner coO.ducts autopsy 
AUGUSTA, Maine (AP) -New brothers, whose reported financial the wooden casket as it was lift'ed in­
York City's chief medical examiner dealings with ex-CIA spy chief Max to a shiny bluehearse. More than 80 conducted an autopsy Thursday on Hugel led to Hugel's resignation on people had assembled at the the exhumed body of Dennis •July 14, and charges by a former cemetery Wednesday -one family McNeil, hoping to learn whether he business associate that Dennis shared a picnic lunch on top of a was murdered six weeks before his McNeil was assaulted on two earlier relative's nearby grave. brothers' allegations led to the occasions. But the mood turned somber and resignation ofthe CIA's spy chief New York authorities, who no one spoke as the gravediggers 
Dr. Elliot Gross entered the . originally refused to perform an removed two heavy, concrete lids to morgue at Kennebec Valley Medical autopsy, now suspect foul play may the vault and the stench of death Center in Augusta a few minutes af­have been involved in McNeil's wafted into the air. ter the chief justice of Maine's death. Nearly two months after his An FBI agent was at the cemetery supreme court rejected efforts by June 3 burial, a former busiqess as­Thursday but declined to answer McNeil's family to stop an autopsy. sociate ofthe family said McNeil was any questions. The FBI is looking for 
Earlier in the day, a t Superior abducted and beaten twice this year McNeil's brothers, who vanished ­Court judge in Augusta had refused as "awarning for the McNelis to cool along with ~ore than $3 million ' to revoke an order allowing it with Hugel." from two oftheir firms -after their McNeil, who suffered from
McNeil's body to be eXhumed from allegations about Hugel were its resting place in the Southwestern hepatitis and cirrhosis, diedJune 1at published in The Washington Post. Maine resort town ofBridgton. New York's City Hospital Center McNeil was hospitalized May 31 The body was exhumed yesterday while doctors were preparing to after returning to his Queens, N.Y., 
morning and transported 70 miles to operate for a suspected ruptured home from jogging. He complained the hospital morgue in Augusta until spleen. The death certificate ofsevere abdominal pains. the Supreme Court decision. received by his widow attributed his Queens County District Attorney 
After a 90-minute hearing in death to natural causes. John Santucci requested the post­
Portland, Vincent L McKusick ofthe McNeil was buried in Bridgton, burial autopsy after a Chicago busi­Maine Supreme Judicial Court ruled Maine. The exhumation, delayed nessman and former associate ofthe ' that the family's lawyer failed to one day by the family's efforts to McNelis told The Chicago Tribune 
meet the specific requirements block it, took less than 30 minutes. about the alleged beatings. needed to block the autopsy. Some 60 people -reporters, Court documents fl.led by New John Whitman, the Portland police officers and spectators -York authorities state that a lawyer who represented McNeil's pressed against ropes surrounding 
ruptured spleen almost always is the mother, sister and two missing older the gravesite to catch a glimpse of result ofan external blow. brothers, said no further attempt to 
McNeil's brothers, Thomas and block the autopsy would be made. 
Samuel, told the Post in July that The case has attracted much Hugel joined them in an illegal publicity because of McNeil's scheme in 1974 to promote the
Governors 






~ CII~EIHAI * 

monday night film series 
An eclectic series of films shown in conjunction with the course GOTH 140 (Basics of Film Studies) and sponsored by the Department of Communication & Theatre. The series is historically and nationally varied, not only to suit the pur­pose of the class, but also to provide local viewers with the opportunity to see films not otherwise available here. 
All showings in the Annenberg Auditorium, the Snite Museum of Art, Notre Dame campus at 7:30 P.M. Individual Admissions $1.00 Series Ticket: 13 films for $10.00 

stock of Hugel's Brother Interna­tional Corp., a New Hampshire­
based electronics firm, through the McNelis' Wall Street stock­brokerage firm. 
·schedule 

meeting 

Hugel denied the allegations through his lawyer, but stepped down from his CIA post. 
MILWAUKEE (AP) -Even if fel­low Democratic Gov. John BrownJr. of Kentucky were to attend, John 

• • .Suit 
Carlin of Kansas would likely feel outnumbered at the Midwest Gover­nors' Conference beginningSunday. continuedfrom page 1 
Brown was originally scheduled trol ... riot control." 
to attend but canceled because of The present chief, Jenda Smith,other commitments, leaving Carlin said only 16 were on hand when he as the lone Democrat among a con­destroyed them in late June. 

ference brimmingwith Republicans. 

"I personally bent them in two," he said. "The switches were disabled 
Ten GOP governors will attend, 

and I sent them to be thrown in the i~cluding host Lee Dreyfus of Wis­
creek." 
consin and James Thompson of Il­But two unidentified Bessemer 

linois, conference chairman. 

police officers told radio sttion An 11th Republican governor, WZZK on Wednesday that the use of Allen Olson of North Dakota, had the prods in the Bessemer City Jail 
earlierannounced that he would not was "standard procedure" and thatattend because of prior commit­they had seen the prods used to

ments. 

force suspects into police cars onThe governors will assemble for a several occasions. Furthermore thereception Sunday evening, then get officers said, two .patrolmen carrydown to the business of the the prods as part 'of their"Economic Recovery of the Mid­''equipment" at part-time jobs at Be·west" Monday and Tuesday. They ssemer bars.
will focus on energy, water manage­Commenting on the allegationsment, agricultural exports and capi­by the three prisoners, Public Safety tal formation -and how they relate Commissioner Max Williams said,to the economy of the nation's 

"We just don't do that around here." 
heartland. 

Williams said he feels the accusa­Astate dnner -black tie optional 
tions are an attempt to discredit him -will end the conference Tuesday 
with black voters, who played a key evening. 
role in his election. 

Monday, August 31 
Day for Night Directed by Francois Truffaut, 1972 
(116 min.) Truffaut's love song to the cinema. A funny, witty, warm, complex film about ... well, about the making of a film. With JacQUeline Bisset, Jean-Pierre Aumont, Pierre Leaud, Valentina Cqrtese. 
Monday, September 7 
Citizen Kana Directed by Orson Welles~ 1941 
(119 min.) Little can be added to the thousands of words already spent on this genuine classic of film art. With Welles, Joseph Cotten, and all the talent of the Mercury Players. Greg Toland significantly extended the range of cinematic language in this film. 
Monday, September 14 
"Z" Directed by Costa-Gravas, 1968 (127 rrin.) The political thriller-a new genre-burst upon the scene with this taut, exciting, committed film. With Yves Mon­tand, Irene Pappas, Charles Denner. 
Monday, September 21 Mon•laur Vardoux Directed by Charles Chaplin, 1947 (123 min.) War, violence, crime, morality; are these really subjects for a comedy? They are, when the form is in the hands of a genius like Chaplin. Particularly relevant now when we seem Immersed In one or all of the above. 
Monday, September 28 
It Happened One Night Directed by Frank Capra, 
1934 (105 min.) With Clark Gable as a wisecracking newspaper reporter and CCaudette Colbert as a spoiled heiress who meet on a Greyhound bus. This film was responsible for the virtual demise of the American men's underwear Industry (upper torso division) when Clark Gable removed his shirt to reveal all. 
Monday, October 5 
Padre Padrona Directed by Paolo and Vltorlo Tavlanl, 
1977 (114 min.) A recurrent prizewinner (Cannes Film Festival, etc.), this rich and complex film demonstrates the eontlnuing vitality of the italian cinema. This beautiful film explores human relationships with a density worthy of a great novel. 
Monday, October 12 . Vlrldlana Directed by Luis Bunuel, 1961 (90 min.) The great Surrealist master Is at It again, this time staging a version of the Last Supper to end all versions. Full of verve, wit, and insight. 
Monday, October 26 
Who'll Stop tha Rain? Directed by Carel Reisz, 
1978 (125 min.) Nick Nolte, Tuesday Weld, and Michael Moriarty star in this fine adaptation of Robert Stone's National Book Award· winning novel Dog Soldiers. This film should be part of any definitive artistic statement about the 60's in America. 
Monday, November 2· 
Tha Whlta Shalk Directed by Federico Felllni, 
1952 (86 min.) This early Fellini already develops most of the themes which he would later expand. His acid sense of fun, in· sight, and charm are completely winning. 
Monday, November 9 
lnva•lon of the Body Snatcher• Directed by 
Philip Kaufman, 1978 (114 min.) This recent remake of the science fiction classic is being scheduled during the same week as the original (which will screen on Thurs. Nov. 5). Which is the better? The making of the comparison may prove more worthwhile than trying to decide. 
Monday, November 16 
Weekend Directed by Jean Luc Goddard, 1968 
(105 min.) Goddard delivers one of the great statements about the consumer society in general, and the automotive dream in particular. An impressive example of the work of a major screen dialectician. 
Monday, November 23 
Crla• and Whlapar• Directed by lngmar Bergman, 
1972 (106 min.) Very few works In the cinema carry this Intensity, honesty and seriousness of purpose. An invaluable source for the study ot formal and Informal cinematic elements, and, at the same time, an example of the formidable Swedish director working at the top of his bent. A majestic example of the art of the cinema. 
Monday, November 30 · Lola Montez Directed by Max Ophlus, 1955 (110 min.) Ophlus used cinematic technique at the farthest reaches ot its possibilities, both technically and artistically. Here, in the story 01 the celebrated courtesan, he seems to even outrea~h himself. 
;;; 
e,~~~~·~·~l ...-'~" ~~ 
P-------------------------------------------------------~--------------------------------------------------· ----~ 
The Observer 
Friday, August 28, 1981-page 5 
Discussing the trades trends during their coffee the ACC yesterday. (Pboto by Beth Prezio) 


as saying. 
A South African defense force spokesman declined to comment on th reports. Angola's restrictions on the Western pceu did not allow in­dependent confirmation ofthe news agency's claims. 
South Africa's white-minority government claims the fighting, which Angola says began Monday, Is directed at black nationalist guerril­las seeking Independence for Namibia. Angop, however, reported that Angolan forces were Involved. South Africa has said It was possible Angolan forces would be Involved 
TaX cuts may weaken charities 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The country's private charities said yes­terday they stand to lose more than $18 billion over the next four years because President Reagan's tax cuts will give the wealthy less Incentive to make contributions. 
"This unintended but unfortunate side effect of the broader tax bill could weaken many of the very voluntary organizations the presi­dent and the public are counting on to make up for federal budget cut­backs," said Brian O'Connell, presi­dent ofIndependent Sector. 
Independent Sector is an umbrdla organization reprentlng most of the nation's public service organizations. 
The Income loss projected for private charities and public service organizations follows a study, released by the same group last spring, which concluded that cuts In the federal budget would take away $27.3 billion. 
With the 118.3 blllion expected to be lost because ofthe tax package, the total lou In charitable giving wlll total 145.6 bllllon through 1984, O'Connell said 
Reagan's budget proje@ions had assumed that some of the cuts made in federal support for social service programs, the arts and simUar areas would be made up by private phibnthropy. 
Instead, O'Connell said, private philanthropy and the services It sup­ports are caught In a "triple wham­my." 
"Federal program support has already been cut, contributions are now projected to go down and all this at a time when everyone Is looking to these same organizations to expand their services," O'Connell said. 
The new study says that while charitable giving will go up slightly, It will grow at a considerably slower rate than It would have under the old tax law. 
"As a result, private giving Is projected to decline as a share of personal income," the report says. 
Waldheim, the Angolan president said the territory was under attack by 135 tanks, 38 helicopter and 140 transport and "attack cars." 
Angola said South African planes and troops destroyed the town of Xangongo In attacks Tuesday and occupied the bridge that connects to the province of Huila, Angop reported. The ministry said South African planes a1so· bombed the t~wn ofCahma on Tuesday. 
The reports of fresh fighting Thursday came after the govern­ment hews agency said the incur­sion Into southern Angola was slowing down and that the South Africans were trying to gain time for a "discreet withdraw!'' because of adverse international reaction. The attack has been condemned by the United States, Britian, West Ger­many, Sweden, Canada and Yugos· Iavia 
break, these antique dealers were two of many at 

Dance class begins 
An aerobic dance class will be held regularly beginning next week on the second floor of the Rockne Memorial. The class will meet on Mondays, Tuesdays and Thursdays from 4:15 to 5:15 p.m. This car-1 diovascular exerci~ program wiU be open to all Notre Dame women free ofcharge. ' 
...-Hours 
Mon-Thurs 11 am-12 pm Fri-Sat 11 am-1 :30 am Sun 4 pm-11 pm 
•-Beer Specials ,, 
Every Nite 8:00-10:00 
$1.75 Pitcher $.50 Mug 
....._HAPPY HOUR 
Mon-fr14 pm-6 pm Fri-Sat 8 pm-12 am 4 ft wide screen TV 
PlEASE-one coupon per pizza 
This coupon good This coupon good for one for one 
LARGE PIZZA MEDIUM PIZZA Sl.OO OFF $.75 OFF expires 9-30-81 expires 9-30-81 
-·~--------------· 

r--ARTIO'S IRISH PUB ·~ 
t::::::::..........~.g-~-~.~-~:-~~~~~-~-~?.?.~~~................:.::::1 ~LCOMEBACKNOTREDAMffi 
AND SAINT MARY'S STUDENTS 

....m.ich€ioi\lt~···············60**~·r.................................................... m•chaos R€Ci. I.........: Web., ttnms., fR•. 
ano sat. 4:00pm t1U aos1nq



·····aiiii.AJVi5..Gii·r;fc·······uA.iNr£nl 
jms plaza 
Minutes Away!!! 
grape rd. 


TEST PREPARATION SPECIALISTS SINCE 1938 For lnforiT\atlon About Other Centers In More Than 85 US Cities & Abroaa Outside NY State CALL TOLL FREE: 100-223-1712 . 
buy one big mac­get one free 
•
exp1res Sept. 30, 1981 
,Qffer good only at McDonald's + 1819 R. Ironwood Dr. South Bend, ln. 

Bobody can do it; like McDonald's can(··rM 
Limit 1 cou:pon per customer per 'visit Oash redemption value 1110 of 1 cent. 



~ ~-------------~----~--­
~-­

Friday, August 28, 1981 -page 6 


Editorials 
Controlled· keg policy ~ order for campus 
As the puty season rolls around, students once again will be compelled to oomply with DIILoc's anti-keg directive. This will mark another year thlt students will become exasperated by the senseless restriction, wlti,k:' alWDIIi are casually exempted, and no one is satisfied. 
For the record, the policy formally bans.all kegs ofalcoholic bevera within the campus boundaries~ And evet: since enforcement began by Secwity department (which consists ofconfiscation ofkegs as well as hefty deposit), students have tried many ways, both· openly and sub-,,# versively, to cin:umvent the rule. But all attempts at creating a discussion forum with the Administration on this subject have been fruitless. 
1beclassic argument that kegs promote excessive dririking seems to usT1 little more than useless rhetoric. lt is perhaps true that unsupervised use of a keg may lead to irresponsible drinking which could lead to irresponsible ;tctions. But this does not mean a controlled keg policy is not in order. 
A controlled keg policy would allow kegs on campus under certain cir­cumstances. An absolute ban on kegs is both uneconomical and unfair to responsible students, and we feel the possibility of allowing kegs to be used at hall parties should be explored. At a large ball party, there is no difference between a kegand numerous cases ofbeer, except that the keg is far cheaper and easier to clean up. 
' 
Consequently, we would like to make this suggestion for an equitable keg policy. After consultation with the rector of a hall planning a party, a number of kegs needed for that party can be approved by the rector. This written approval would be granted only to parties that will have a practical number of people present. This number can most certainly be worked out 

Frese case settles little 

between the Administration and student leaders -a number as simple as It should surprise no one that the probability, end up reversing an ad­15 ueoole per keg would be a responsible ratio. 
University quietly eased its way out verse tenure decision. The settlement 

Tom Jackmma
of the Frese-Ford sex discrimination also waves hello to the affirmative 
case this summer, finalizing the action program, but only to pacify 
settlement which was announced last Tbe students planning a party at which they would like to have kegs 

the Equal Employment Opportunity spring. The 16-page document is an 

would be required to present their rector with a detailed plan for the number Commission, which intervened inofpeople planning to attend the get-together. After the plans for the party awarded tenure in the settlement after 
interesting one, but in the end it ac­

are given to the rector, he can arrive at the number ofkegs allowed for that 
the case. being turned down four times (she party. 
complishes very little toward One problem with tenure commit­
never appealed through established promoting and tenuring more female tees is that they are made up of an 
procedure). Their open letter protest­
faculty members. instructor's colleagues, and in cases 

ing the settlement, released last We believe this to be a very prudent, reasonable improvement on the 
What the Frese-Ford women based like this that opens up the possibility 

week, is signed by most of the senior existing keg policy. It would provide students with the use of kegs for 
their suit on was a famed section of of personal grudges, petty argu­

members of the English department economy and clean-up ease, while still leaving the final decision in the 
the 1964 Civil Rights Act, Title VI I, ments, and sexual discrimination. 

(all male) and appears in today's hands ofthe University. It has been quite some time since the Administra­
which contains the portion stating And at Notre Dame, where women P.O. BoxQ.
that employers may not discriminate only joined the faculty ten years ago, tion acknowledged any real student opinion on the subject of kegs. Now 

'\o what has happened? Dolores appears to be a vet:y opportune time. 
on the basis of sex, religion, etc. To 
Frese has tenure, and rumblings are 
satisfy this standard Notre Dame ­
About the Author: Tom Jackman, 
that she will be cold shouldered by
like many employers -long ago 
a 20-year-old senior from Reston, 
fellow professors. The other women 
devised an affrrmative action plan to 
Va., began his journalism career 
in the case will appeal their judg­
hire more women and minorities. But 
reading sports scores over the public 
ments to the three-person board, but 
they have never been able to meet the 
address system in the sixth grade,



P.O. Box Q 
those that are approved will also have goals set forth in the plan, and until 
and has been going hard at it ever 
won back their jobs on a charge of this case no one had troubled them 
since. He is a double major in 

sex discrimination, thus alienatingjective, and unbiased evaluations of about it. 
English and American Studies, and 
the colleagues who passed earlier

Englisli profs 
Dr. Frese' credentials was made by Hiring women is one thing, but 
his articles have appeared in tlw 

judgment on them. It makes for an the English Department Committee !enuring them is another matter 
news, features and sports sections in 
uneasy atmosphere. 


protest settlement 
addition to his contributions on the

on Appointments and Promotions. entirely, and the fact that there are 
Those who hoped major changes We particularly deny that our very few tenured women professors 
Editorials page. Jackman, The Ob­
might occur in the tenure process


in open letter 
server's monaging editor, also edits 

proceedings were marred by any sex at Notre Dame seems to indicate that 
have been defeated. Those who discrimination as charged in Dr. something is seriously amiss. But by 
the Editorials page, which runs every 
hoped the sex discrimination charges 

Editor's Note: The following openl Wednesday, Thursday and Friday,
Frese's lawsuit. settling out of court, the women in would be brought out in the open,led
lener, signed by the members of the· 
It is always regrettable when a col­the Frese-Ford case have lost the op­
and he invites your contributions 
by the EEOC, have lost. Those

English , Department's promotion 
leag~ is not granted promotion and portunity to make lasting advances 
and/or comments. 
pmfessors who wished to be publicly 

committee, wa.r relea.red earlier this 1 
tenure by the academic processes of for future female instructors. vindicated in a trial have lost. And
month in reaction to the final settle­
the University, but it is unjust and And the very first paragraph of the the University, which has successful­
all-male review boards seemingly

ment reached in the Frese-Ford law­
professionally intolerable that such agreement in effect absolves the Uni­strengthen the CaBe of someone like ly avoided a messy court case which
suit against the (lniversity. 
bestowed of
promotion be upon Dr. versity "any discriminatory Ms. Frese. would have drawn a great deal of at­As members of the Notre Dame Frese as the result of unproven practices, past or present,'' although Even so,· there are alternative tention to its remarkably dispropor­English Department who have srved 
charges in her lawsuit and of an un­
this has never been decided by an im­processes for teachers denied tenure, tionate male/female faculty ratio, has on those promotions committees academic and compromising settle­partial third party. This is a statement and one group involved in that won.

which reviewed Dr. Dolores Frese, ment by the University's allowed to appear in the formal process is also unhappy with the Familiar ending, huh? 
we disapprove of the University's administration and layers. We do not settlement by the women in the case, settlement. The members of theout-of-court settlement that grants see how a University can develop a in exchange for more appeals and ap­English Department's tenure com­promotion and tenure to Dr. Frese. 
faculty of any quality or repute by peals' processes concessions made mittee, which denied Ms. Frese's ap­The Observer editorial page isHowever individual members may submitting to legalistic expediency. by Notre Dame. And this, of course, plication in four different years, your page. On it, debates andhave voted with respect to Dr. 
Prof. Joseph X. Brennan is exactly what Notre Dame wanted. badly wanted the case to come to crusades on various issues of local 
Frese's promotion, each member en­Prof. Edward A. Kline They emerge from the case without court, so that they could be vind­and national import take place three dorses and supports the majority 
Prof. Thomas Jemielity any sort of evidence that they might icated of the sex discrimination times a week. But the contributors decision of any committee on which 
Prof. Walter R. Davis discriminate on the basis of sex, and aren't just student or syndicated he served. Four successive commit­
charges made agiiinst them. Some of 

Prof. PaulA. Rathburn in fact the charge never gets any sort columnists, or the opinions of our
the members felt slandered outright

tees found Dr. Frese's credentials in­Prof. William J. Krier of public airing. editorial board. They also come
by Ms. Frese's original brief. 

adequate fO£ promotion and in each Prof. James P. Dougherty What the women in the case have from you, the readers. We invite your 
If there is sex discrimination at 

case their judgement was decisively Prof. Robert J. Lordi won is another avenue of appeal for submissions, both in our Letters to
Notre Dame, the English professors negative. We believe that only Prof. Leslie Martin themselves through a special, three­wanted to be set apart completely the Editor section, "P.O. Box Q," tbrougb the objective and thorough panel contains from " looks on the and the "Opinion"
Prof. Donald P. Costello person which a it. It bad in weekly 
processes of evaluation by faculty woman professor from another column. Send all items to the
Prof. James E. Robinson surface,'' acknowledged one English 
can an academic judgment about a Prof. Joseph Duffy school. The University also has prof, "but appearances are deceiv­Editorials Editor, P.O. Box Q on 
faculty member's rank and tenure formed a new appeals process campus, and include your
Prof. Donald Sniegowski ing." Yet they do not feel acquitted name, truly be made: we wish it to be known 
Members, English Promotions Com­designed strictly to ferret out sex dis­of Frese's charges, especially since address and phone number. As al­tha a series of such thorough, ob-mittees crimination which will never, in all Frese herself was summarily ways, we reserve the right to edit. 

Editorial Board and Department Managers 


==Ihe_-Obset:ver== 
Editor-in·Cbief.........................................John McGrath . SMC Executive Editor .....................Mary Agnes Carey 
Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 . 
Managing Editor ......................................Tom Jackman SMC News Editor ................................Cathy Domanico 
The Observer is an independent newspaper published by the students of the 
Executive News Editor .............................. Lynne Daley Photo Editor ...................................................John Macor 
Universiry of Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessanly 
News Editor ...........:.................................Tim Vercellotti reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news IS reported Business Manager ....................................Rich Coppola as accurately and as objectively as possible. Editorials represent the opm10n of a Senior Copy Editor ................. ...... Mary Fran Callahan Controller........................................................Joe Mulllur majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, opinions, and letters are the v1ews Sports Editor ......................................... Michael Ortman Advertising Manager ......................................Mark Ellis of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community, and 
Circulation Manager .~ ......................Tom Maclennan
the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, IS encouraged. 
--------------------------------------------~----------------~--------­

~~()1"tSc~==,..==i=e~S=?======~=====================F=ri=da=y=,A=u=~=st=2=s=,t=9=Bt=-==p=a~~7

by The Ohsen•t•r and The A.r.rociated Prt'rr 
The Notre Dame water polo club will start 
practice for the upcoming fall season on Monday August 31 at 4 p.m. In the Rockne Memorial pool. Newcomers arc welcome to attend. For 
more Information contact Pat McDivitt at 3815.-·The Observer 
The Off-Campus interhall football team 
wlll hold an organizational meeting In the LaFortune ballroom on Tuesday September 1 at 7 p.m. If you have any questions call Matt 
Huffman at 232·0921.--Tbe Observer 
The Notre Dame lacrosse team will hold a 
meeting on Monday August 31 at 4:30p.m. in th ACC Auditorium. Anyone interested In playing lacrosse should attend this meeting. If you are Interested, but cannot attend, please call Coach O'Leary at 4563.-·Tbe Observer 
The Notre Dame soccer team opens its 198t 
exhibition slate Saturday at 7 p.m. on Cartier Field against St. Francis (Ind.) College. Admission Is free for this sneak preview of the young and talented Irish kickers.--Tbe Observer 
Football ticket distribution begins next week. 
All Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students who purchased season foot· 
ball tickets during the summer should report to the ticket windows at 
Gate 3 of the Athletic and Convocation Center. The following dates 
have been designated for picking up student football tickets: Seniors 
-Tuesday, Sept. I. juniors and all undergraduate students In their ninth semester or higher Wednesday, Sept. 2. Sopho­mores/Graduate/Law Students -Thursday, Sept. 3. Freshmen ­Friday. Sept. 4. The ticket windows will be open from 8 am. until 5 
p.m. Including the noon hour. The Gate 3 doors of the ACC will be open at 7:30a.m. The football ticket committee reminds students that the seats In the student section have NOT been preassigned by the Ticket Office. Therefore, If as student wishes to sit with a specific clao;smate, they must present their IDs together for adjacent seating. No student may present more than four IDs. Band members and prospective band members should check with band officials regard­Ing ticket distribution procedures. Married students who purchased tickets during the summer should report to the ACC with their respective class on the scheduled day. When picking up their tickets, they must present evidence of their marital status. Any student who has not filled out a 1981 student football ticket application may do so before Sept. I, at the ticket office on the second floor ofthe ACC. Since the june 21 deadline has passed, ticket availability will be on a condi· tlonal basis. -The Observer 
N.Y. Mets, Expos continue surge 
Mike Marshall, 2·0, who also was the beneficiary of Wilson's late in· Frank Taveras singled home the 
By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS 
ning heroics Tuesday night, was the tying run and Hubie Brooks doubled 
winner again Thursday. in the game-winner in a two-out ral· 
Ray Burris held Cincinnati to one hit for eight innings--a one-out single
ly in the eighth inning off Houston's by Ken Griffey In the seventh--and
ace relieverJoe Samblto as the New rookie Terry Francona drove in the
York Mets defeated the Astros 3·2 first three runs of his major league
Thursday. 
career as the Montreal Expos com­
Alex Trevino started the Mets' ral­pleted a three-game sweep of the
ly with a one-out single off Houston Reds with a 12-0 victory Thursdaystarter joe Niekro. Sambito, 3·5, night.
came in and struck out Mookie Wil· Burris, 6-5, lost his no-hitter when
son as Trevino stole second. Griffey blasted a single to left field 
Taveras then looped his game· after one out. Burris struck out threetying single to right-center and batters and walked one for his thirdBrooks chased home the winning straight victory of the secondrun with a shot Into the left field cor­season.
ner. 


Bird anxious to resume season 
BOSTON (AP}·Larry Bird, well was beat. I was playing those games Bird said his weight will be down rested and 20 pounds heavier after a at the end of the season on emo· to normal once he starts working relaxing summer back home in In· tion." out regularly at training camp. diana, is ready to play basketball. Bird said weighed 21 5 when the 
"In the early part of the season, I"I had a great summer," says Bird, season ended but has beefed up to picked up some kind of virus or lluwho will start his third season with 235, relaxing with his friends at and it stuck with me for awhile. I lostthe Boston Celtlcs this fall. "It was French lick, Ind. 

nice going home like that and seeirig "Getting that championship about 208."
how much my friends enjoyed it. meant a lot to me. I won't say that it That made it even better for me. It was like carrying a burden around, Bird also said he was pleased that was the first time since my sopho· but...now we've got it, I think I can Julius Erving of the Philadelphia more year in college that I could just just go out and have more fun 76ers won the NBA's MVP award 
playing the game. I feel so good that

relax and enjoy myself." "He deserved it and I was happy
I'm ready to start the season right

Working out at the team's Nation· for him because he is such a super
now."

al BasketbaJI Association rookie nice guy...I didn't play well the first camp in Marshfield, Bird said he But Bird said first he wants to en· half of last year and when you put "was worn out" after the Celtics' joy the squirrel hunting season In In· thinS'! Into perspective, he had a bet· NBA championship last spring. "I diana ter season than I did." 
I 


The Observer Friday, August 28, 19~1 -page 8 


-

The Observer Friday, August 28, 1981-page 9 

Aikens, Lozinski po-wer Royals and Sox 
By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS 
Wlllie Aikens drove In four runs, two on a homer, and Rance Mul­liniks added two RBI with a pair of doubles as the Kansas City Royals beat Toronto 11-5 Thursday for the Blue Jays' fifth consecutive loss. 
Aikens, who has hit three homers In the past four games, keyed the Royals' five-run fourth inning against Jim Clancy, 3-8, with his two-run shot Into the left field bleachers for a 6-I K..insas City lead. 
Doug DeCinces' grand-slam home run and a pair ofinfield singles by AI Bumbry led the Baltimore Orioles to a 6-2 victory over the California Angels Thursday night. 
Scott McGregor, 9-3, notched his eighth straight win over the Angels since the start of the 1979 season. He allowed five hits, including solo homers by Bobby Grieb in the seventh and ninth lnnlng."i. 
Jim Dwyer launched the winning rally off Ken Forsclf, 10-6, with a single in the seventh and moved around on a sacrifice, an infield out and Bumbry's grounder into the hole which was fielded by shortstop lkrt Campaneris. Campanerls, who had no play, was playing for Rick 8u who missed his first 
St. Louis Cardinal manager Whitey Herzog reaches to grab shortstop Garry Templeton after tbe Redbird Infielder was ejected from Wednesday's game with tbe San Francisco Giants for making obscene gestures to beckllngfans. Templeton wasfined 15,000 and suspended indefinitely by tbe St. Louis club. (Photo by Associated Press) 

'Refrigerators 
dorm room size students rates 
CALL 
TAYLOR 



RENTAL 
277-2190 
1427 N. Ironwood~ 
' 

of the season because of a jammed 
right ankle. 
Baltimore clinched the game in the eighth as DeCinces hit his 1Oth homer of the season and second grand slam this year. 
A pair of two-run doubles by Jorge Orta highlighted a 12-run Cleveland outburst in the first three innings Thursday night as the In­dians sent the Seattle Mariners to their seventh straight defeat, 12-2. 
Cle"..eland starter Burt Blyleven, 9-5, allowed six hits, struck out seven and walked two in seven in­nings before giving ing way to, reliever Dennis Lewallyn. 
Randy Stein, the third of five Seattle pitchers, was ejected in the third inning for thro~ing a pitch be­hind Indians' shortstop Tom Veryzer. Blyleven hit the Mariners' Tom Paclorek the previous half­inning, after Stein threw at Indians' catcher Ron Hassey during Cleveland's seven-run third. 
Dwight Evans capped a Boston comeback with a two-run' homer with two out in the eighth inning Thussday night, rallying the Red Sox to a 6-5 victory over the Oakland A's. 
and at-bats, unloaded on a 3-0 pitch by The contest was delayed 47 Oakland reliever Tom Underwood, minutes at the start by rain, then bysending a towering drive over the ;zo minutes at the end ofthe seventh screen in left for his 1 5th homer. It inning. The third stoppage came In marked the third time this year Evans has homered on a 3-0 pitch. 
the bottom of the eighth with one 

The Red Sox were held to one run out and runners on first and second for six innings by starter Rick for the White Sox. But the rain did Langford before drawing within 5-4 not subside and the game was called. with three runs in the seventh. 
Lamarr Hoyt, 5·3, was the winner Leon Roberts, batting .163 for the in relief of Britt Bums, who left in second half of the season, drove in the seventh inning without havingfour runs with a hornet and a double allowed a run, lowering his earned and Danny Darwin pitched a four­run average to 2.40. 

hitter to lead the Texas Rangers to a 
5-1 victory over the Milwaukee •••-.P.-1111!!!!1!1!•~--IIII!IIIIIJIIIIIIIIII!!!!!-1111!•-.••~-----· 
Brewers Thursday night. Productions Present Darwin, 8-6, struck out six and 
JHE 

retired 13 consecutive batters over 1-------------.. li-----------­




0 0 B I E 
;un:es;~etch in his first victory since 
The Rangers broke a 1-1 tie with · two runs in the fourth off Mike Caldwell, 8-7, on a single by Buddy Bell, a sacrifice, a walk and Roberts' 
~~~~~~ 
Greg Lozinski belted a three-run homer to bring the Chicago White· Sox from behind for a 3-1 victory , 
over the New York Yankees Thursday night in a game called in the eighth inning because ofrain. 
Lozinski's homer came with one out in the eighth inning with Ron LeFlore and Mike Squires on base. LeFlore was walked by reliever Ron Davis, 2-4. Squires followed with a single and Carlton Fisk advanced both runners with a sacrifice before Lozinski's 14th home run, a tower­ing shot to left field. 
.. .Coach
• 

continuedfrom page 1.2 
the backfield...Faust wasn't as 
pleased with the rest of
practlce..."We slacked off after scrimmaging. The team doesn't have that killer instinct yet and we've got 
to develop it. Today the players learned a lesson." 
• 
MORRIS CIVIC 

..-------------------iiiii.iiiliiiiiiiiiiii.-1
Good seats still"available for the Doobie Brothers/Michael Stanley: ~12.50 reserved seats at River City Records (50970 U.S. 31 North &4626 Western Avenue) and ACC Box Office. 
Ozzy Osbourne tickets: $9.50 reserved seats and on sale at River City Records (50970 U.S. 31 North & 4626 Western 
s 
Special Guest Star 

' 
MICHAEL STANLEYBAND 
Sunday, Aug. 30, 1981 7:30 PM NOTRE DAME AC.C. {South 
Special Guest 


DEF LE 


Saturday, Aug. 29 
OFF-CAMPUS . SENIOR CLASS HAPPY HOUR 
at CORBY'S! Friday,. August 28 
The Observer 
Reggie undergoes physical exam , 
NEW YORK (AP)--ReggieJackson "We want to convince ourselves Uf!derwent a physical examination that Reggie's OK. He's a very 
Thursday amid concern that the valuable ballplayer and we think he 
once-slugging outfielder was deserves the best," Tallis said after 
nearillg the end ofhis time with the meeting with Jackson and his agent, 
New York Yankees. Matt Merola, prior to Wednesday ·Jackson checked into New York 
night's game against Minnesota at University Medical Cent~r for a Yankee Stadium. series of tests at the request of Jackson, 35, was benched for Yankee manaement to try to find if Wednesday night's game. On Tues­any physical problems have caused day, Manager Gene Michael had his season-long slump. light-hitting veteran Aurelio Rodri­He was expected to catch a plane 
quez pinch hit for the outfielder later in the day to Chicago, where 
who has slammed 416 homers in his the Yankees opened a four-game 
major-league career. series with the White Sox, according 
·"It wasn't a reprimand," Michael to a spokeswoman for the American 
said. "I'm trying to get more offense League club. 
generated. We're lOth in the league Jackson, batting .212 with six 
and that's not good enough for me. home runs and 28 runs batted in this 
When asked how he felt, Jackson season, was asked to take the physi­
said, "I haven't felt anything for a cal in a letter from Cedric Tallis, the 
week. I kind ofwish I was ticked off. I 
Tbree members of tbe Notre Dame field hockey terday's practice on Alumnt Fteld. (photo byjobn 
kind ofwish I was something. I haveYankees' executive vice president,
team ftnd sometbtng to laugh aboutfollowing yes-Macor) 
the juicesto still play. I still want it." ) ackson is in the final year ofa five-'Wednesay night. 
r--~------------------------~, 
year contract with the Yankees and
I 
since before spring traininghas beenI I One Block South of sparring with owner George
I Copp • • .Draft 
Memorial Hospital Steinbrenner over terms of a new
I 
pact. Tallis said Jackson had made no
i I~! 
continuedfrom page 12

f 
mention of his contract at Wednes­all-America choice on most lists. Last reporting last July to the Denver day's meeting, which also was at­spring, Atlanta Falcon officials said Bronco camp, Gibbons was cut in tended by Michael, Lou Saban, the 
Banjos Scully's major drawback was that he two weeks. Yankees' president, and EdGuitars & Accessories didn't snap for punts. Since that time Gibbons, at least, wasn't lonely in Broderick, the club's lawyer.
Harmonicas Recorders& Scully has turned it around. the Mi!e-High city. Defensive end Penny Whistles John Hankerd, who was drafted in
Pianos S: Organs "John Scully has been doing pret­
the twelfth round, left camp aboutSheet Music ty well for us," said one Falcon 
eighth round by his hometown
the same time as Gibbons. Hankerd, 
spokesman. "We've got him listed as
10 % OFF EVERYTHING WITH THIS, however, left on his own accord, Chicago Bears. On the second day of 
our No. 2 center and also No. 2 punt 
training camp, the former all­deciding football was just not forsnapping.'' 
America defensive end walked into
AD! "We've got about five more him anymore. 
head coach Neil Armstrong's officeRunning backJim Stone, who was
people to cut and we're pretty sure
NO LIMIT drafted by the Seattle Seahawks in and, explaining that he had had
he'll survive the cut." 
enough pain, retired from pro foot­
434 North Main Street-South Bend -233-1838 Defensive back Tom Gibbons was the ninth round, was cut just two 
ball. As uf now, Zettek plans to at­the only one ofseven Irish potential weeks ago. 
tend graduate school at DePaul.
Scott Zettek was drafted in the
~----------------------------~ pros who wasn't drafted. After 

• i( •~ ~ ~ 
i( 
~ ~ 

THIS BUD'S FOR YOUR 
~ 

INTRAMURAL PROGRAM
~ -~ ~ 

Why buy generic beer when you can get a quality product fo;~ly a few extra ~ pennies per 12 ounce serving) In addition, we will donate one dollar per half 
~ 

keg to your notre dame intramural athletic fund for each keg you purchase
~ 

~ from us. (August 26 thru September 30) 
~• ~ ..• ~ . 

~ Current Prices (plus deposit and tax)
~ 
~ 

~ V2 keg !4 keg
~ ~ 
~ 

~ BUDWEISER1 S34.00 S20.00
~ 
~ 

MICHELOB S38.00 S21.00
~ ~ 

~ STROH'S S33.00 S20.00
~ 
~ 

~ BUSCH S33.00iC ~ HEINEKIN S65.00
~ 

~ ~ _STROH LIGHT S30.00
-~ 

'NATURAL LIGHT S33.00
~ ~ 

~ MICHELOB LIGHT S38.00 S21.00 
~ ~ 
~ 

~ ~ Taps-Cups-Ice-Always in Stock 
~ 

~ Get Decorations for Rooms 
~ ~~ 

Ask about your opportunity
~ 

~ i .-tc '* for 2 Football tickets * ~ This offer applies only to ND-SMC students 
-~ 

~ of legal drinking age and faculty. 
~ 
----­
~ 

HOURS: 
~ 8:30 AM to 4:45 PM Daily ~ 9:00 AM to 11:00 am Sat. 
287-1067 840 Prarie Ave 
~ 
• ~ 
~ ~ 
~ ~ 
~ ~ 
~ 
~ ~ 
~ 
~ 
• ~ 
~ 
~. i(
~ 
~ ~ 
~ ~ 
~ 
~ ~ 
~ 
~ ~ 
~ 
~ ~ 
~ 
~ ~ 
~ 
~ ~ 
~ 
~ ~ 
~ 
~ ~ 
~ 
~ ~ 
~ 
~ ~ 
~ 
~ ~ 
~ 
~ ~ 
~ 
~ ~ 
~ 
~ ~ 
~ 
~ ~ 
~ ~ 
~ ~ 
~ ~ ~ ~ 

Ihe~Obsener==============-=~=-=-=~ 
Friday, August 28, 1981 -page 11




Weekend 

Molarity 
HER£ IT IS JIH 1.. HDHC: lj 
VIP@ CORNER,.. CDN'JERSATII)J 
P/f ~ml FIRE PLACE,.. AND THREE LOFTS: "THE CEPFiODI-15. 
DININ~ROOH ANP tiVNDE'CK!I 



Simon 
----·---­f1ARGE! 
tap tap 
-l:ap 

~ 
tap 
tap 




The Daily Crossword 
Michael Molinelli 

JOHN TO/(E2, R£LIC/dUS PEP/. '5/ICI(JL.{) l CH!fNGiI /N'Tb MY SIVEifT.:) .. 

\ 

ACROSS 25 Remnant 47 "Do-say, 21 Highold1 Farmer's 28 Produce not..." time place manager's 48 Top-notch 22 Mill input5 Speed-trap concern 49 Deflates 25 Poisonous device 33 Horatlan one's ego 26 "A Bell 10 Easy creations 56-and for-" victory 34 Religious hounds 27 Succeed 14 Understand· 35 Notatall 57 Give the 28 Buildinglngwords strict runaround locations 15 Creme de 36 Memorial 58 Eagerly 29 Parnassian 
Ia creme post expecting 30 Formal mall 16 Concept 37 Object 59 Out yonder 31 Highlanders17 Warbled 39 Memento 60 Diehard's 32 Highway
18 Digs for of Maul cry signsmetal 40 Wlfeof 61 Rubberneck 34 Wlleyor19 Ripped Athamas 62 Thickens Emily 20 Makea 41 Furnace 63 Long lock 37 Fourth striking control 64 Otherwise estate appearance 42 Trapper's 36 Addressee 23 Catchy quest DOWN of junk thing 43 Disputes 1 Kind of mall 24 FOR agency 45 Compulsion jockey 42 Portend 2 Jacob's 44 Spudstwin 45 Indulgent 3 Fast period parents 4 Envoys 46 Italian 5 Jog the numeral memory 6 Dress shape range 7 Feast 49 Bistro 8 Osiris' 50 Riverto crown the Caspian 9 Like a 51 Donewith plastic 52 Comber ingredient 53 Slanted 10 Ceremony print abbr. 11 Bouquet 54 Hotfoots it 12 Paltry 55 Fencing 13 Review foil unfavorably 56 Crone 
Campus 
Friday, August 18 
•12·1
0 p.m. -antique show, ace 

•7, 
9 & 11 p.m. -film, animal house, knights of columbus, U, members free 

•9:30 
p.m. -film, airplane, stepan center, 


sponsored by student union Saturday, August 19 
•7, 
9 & 11 p.m. -ftlm, animal house, knights of columbus, I 1, members free 

•9 
p.m. ·-party, polish wedding. "rumorz", stepan 


center, sponsored by student union Sunday, August 30 
•7:30 p.m. -concert, doobie brothers/michael stanley band, ace, I 12.50 
Television Today 
Friday, August 28 
12:00 p.m.  US  Days of Our Lives  
21  All My Children  
34  Mary Fischer Show  
12:30 p.m.  22  As The World Turns  
34  Straight Talk  
1:00p.m.  11  Another World  
21  One Life to Live  
34  The Dick Cavett Show  
1:30p.m.  21  Search for Tomorrow  
34  Over Easy  
2:00p.m.  11  Texas  
22  The Guiding Light  
21  General Hospital  
34  Romagnoli's Table  
2:30p.m.  34  This Old House No. 113  
3:00p.m.  18  Bugs Bunny  
22  Woody Woodpecker  
21 34  Edge of Night Sesame Street  
3:30p.m.  21  Hour Magazine  
4:00p.m.  11 'Gilligan's Island  
22  Gomer Pyle  
34  Misterogers' Neighborhood  
4:30p.m.  11  Bewitched  
22  Andy Griffith  
21  Hollywood Squares  
34  The Electric Company  
5:00p.m.  18  Brady Bunch  
22  Happy Days Again  
21  Joker's Wild  
34  Studio See  
5:30p.m.  18  NBC Nightly News  
22  CBS News  
21  ABC's World News Tonight  
34  Over Easy  
8:00p.m.  11  NewsCenter 16  
22  22 Eyewitness News  
21  Newswatch  
34  The MacNeil/Lehrer Report  
8:30p.m.  18  M·A-S-H  
21 34  Tic Tac Dough Straight Talk  
7:00p.m.  18  Harper Valley PTA  
22  The Incredible Hulk  
21  Benson  
7:30p.m.  34 11  Washington Week in Review Comedy Theatre  
21  Krypton Factor  
34  Wall Street Week  
8:00p.m.  11  Friday Night Movie: "24 hours of the\  


/ 
l 
I I 
~IP\OOB3~cem ATSENIOR BAR Saturday, Aqgust 29 9:30-2:00 Special on HOT DOGS  Rebel" 22 The Dukes of Hazzard 21 ABC Friday Night Movie: TBA 34 Gala of Stars '81 8:00p.m. 22 Dallas 10:00p.m. 11 NewsCenter 16 22 22 Eyewitness News 21 Newswatch 28 10:30p.m. 18 Tonight Show 22 CBS Late Movie & Night Stalker 21 ABC News Niahtllne 11:00 p.m. 21 Fridays 34 The Dick Cavett Show 11:30p.m. 11 SCTV Comedy Network 12:10Lm. 21 Solid Gold 1:10Lm. 21 Late Night Newsbrief  

Friday, August 28, 1981 -page 12
SROrts 

Veteransinapress 

Johnson coordinates defense 
By MICHAEL OLENIK year's version, preparation for LSU ecute properly. Sports Writer will not begin until next week. It is "The challenge is to overcome the Johnson's hope that after this week pressure caused by expected im­The imposing schedule which his unit will know and understand provement," he predicted. 
creeps dose to the 1981 Notre Notre Dame's entire defensive sys­H the Irish can handle the Dame squad has been the subject of tem. pressure and Johnson's "two-first talk for many Irish followers. This "Right now we are preparing for team defensive line units" can con­year's docket deserves plenty of at­the season as a whole," he said. "We tinue to impress as they have in the tention as five legitimate Top 20 are showing them our total last two weeks, Notre Dame's rookie teams lie in ambush for Gerry Faust's defensive package, rather than con­defensive coordinator will not only first collegiate effort. centrate on any specific set out of have little trouble adjusting to his 
However, because dust rises and our multiple defense." new responsibilites, but he might settles daily now ori Cartier Field, Considering the achievements of even begin to feel less ofa burden to discussion can finally center around last year's unit, improvement is dif­produce the results of 1980. 
performance rather than specula­ficult to expect. According to IRISH ITEMS·-The weatherman tion. And one ofthe key observers of Johnson, there is little to be im­cooperated, and the Irish were able performance on the Irish practice proved upon. to do some hitting out on the field field is first-year defensive coor­"We'd be very happy to play as yesterday...the team coll'ducted a dinator Jim Johnson, formerly the well as we did for most of last year. goal-line scrimmage, running off Notre Dame secondary coach. Al­We do want to force more tur­plays from the six-yard line...Dave though he still spends plenty oftime novers, and we are working on Condeni had a nice reception, grab­with his seasoned pass defenders, causing those turnovers. We would bing a Blair Kiel pass in the end zone Johnson now controls the reigns on like to get the ball for the offense and with one hand...Tim Koegel scored the defensive unit as a whole, and he help them get some opportunities." on a quarterback keep from the two, seems to have grabbed on tightly. Overall, Johnson exudes con­and connected with Mike Favorite 
Stationed in his office· a few days fidence in the players and coaches for a touchdown pass... Fresh!Jlan after double-sessions had ended, he has at his disposal. He knows he running back Chris Smith was a Johnson related his thoughts and has class athletes and he knows they tough ballcarrier to bring down...On 
hopes on Notre Dame's defense as can play good defensive football. For defense, tackle Kevin Griffith made a the season approaches. once, the question is not whether good showing, batting down a "Because of the tremendous per­the squad has the ability to perform, Koegel pass and causing a fumble in formance ofour defense last year we but whether they have the mental 
See COACH, page 9haven't made a lot ofchanges," said fortitude and concentration to ex-the 39-year-old Irish assistant. "Many ofour goals and philosophies from last season have carried over to 
Ovett, Coe 'continue
this season. The key is to perform consistently well from the first game to the last. With openers like LSU and Michigan, a slow start would 

mile record battle 
First-year defensive coordinator jtmjobnson bas a veteran Irlsb definitely be disastrous." defense atbts disposal as Notre Damepracticesfor its season opener Although the defense has but a wltb LSU on September 12. (Pboto by]obn Macor) few minor adjustments from last LONDON (AP)--Steve Ovett and mark. 
Sebastian Coe, the fastest middle dis­IfCoe breaks the record again, he tance runners in history, are locked would become the first to smash the in a bitter battle for the world mile world record three times. record. Thatfact would give him less satis­
The two Britons each have faction than regaining the record
Irish grads viefor NFL spots 
reduced the world mark twice in the from Ovett. past two years, and over the past The pair seldom speak of each week, their intense rivalry has other's achievements and Coe 
MATI HUFFMAN pass-catching gr~duate ofMaryland. Jer, the Charger informant said, "I reached new heights. greeted the news of Ovett's latest Sports Writer "Holohan's going to be an out­think he will, he's doing great." Wednesday night at Koblenz, record by going to bed early without standing swingman, 'wide reciever, Of the six Irish draftees, center West Germany, Ovett clocked 3 comment. There is little doubt that With the 1981 Notre Dame home flanker-type of player," said the John Scully was chosen highest, minutes, 48.40 seconds, shaving .13 .although they respect each other, football opener ahead, complete Charger spokesman. "Ofcourse he's though not until the fourth round, to of a second off the mark Coe set at they don't like each other. with a top ten team and a brand new not the starter because we have a the former Notre Dame all­Zurich, Switzerland, exactly a week Although they clashed twice at coach, most eyes in these parts are guy by the name of Kellen American's dismay. Three centers earlier. the 1980 Moscow Olympics, Coe tuned in on South Bend. But let us Winslow." Winslow was chosen as were chosen ahead of Scully in last Coe is expected to attack the winning the I,500-metergold medal 
not forget our dearly and recently an All-Pro last season. May's draft, despite the fact that the record again in the Ivo van Damme and Ovett taking the 800-meter title, departed. San Diego still has four cuts to 1980 Irish captain was a first t~;~m meet at Brussels, Belgium, tonight they have not raced over a mile, avoiding the confrontation the
Of the 1981 Notre Dame graduat­make and when asked if he thought and he hopes to render meaningless ing class, seven football players have Holohan would make the final ros-See DRAFT, page 10 all the controversy over Ovett's world wants to see. had tryouts or at least skirmishes 
Instead they chip away at each with professional teams. The results other's marks in the other three have been, to say the least, mixed. middle distance events. Coe cur­
Despite sitting out most of the rently holds the 800-and 1,000­1980 season with a broken ankle, meter world records, while Ovett guard Tim Huffman was still drafted owns the I,500 mark. in the ninth round by the Green Bay The rivalry between the two often Packers. "Tim Huffman's chances of breeds controversy and so it was surviving the next cut are good," earlier this week. said a Packer spokesman. "He's But the doubts about the validity doing real well backing up Mark of Ovett's mile record at Koblenz, Koncar at the left tackle though we where it was feared an International have been using him at the right Amateur Athletic Federation rule tackle spot also." had been violated, diminished 
Huffman, a Dallas, Tex. native, was Thursday. obviously drafted on the strength of The mile was added to the meetso his performance previous to last late that it was not mentioned in the season, though he did play a few official program. IAAF rules specify downs during the season and per­that a race must be mentioned in the formed in post-season bowl games. printed program. So must the com­"Right now we don't know if his petitors. ankle is 100/," said the Packer John Wigley, the IAAF informa­spokesman, "but he's been able to tion officer said: "the West German perform real weU for us." Federation will check with the meet 
H any of the six Notre Dame organizers that all the rules were players drafted was chosen by a complied with. Ifthat is so, they will team whtc!J. could use hls special file an application and forward it talents, it iS' Pete Holohan. The 6-5 with the program. The Germans are flanker was,cll.osenby Don Coryell's very meticulous and follow the rules San Diego' ~t'Si :r team known to the letter." to put tb(t.~ In the air quite fre­Peter Bruehel, one of the or­quently.. \" ·. . ganizers of the Koblenz meet, said 
"Pete Holo1Wtlsdolnga fine job," that because of technical reasons, one spoltdma' fbt the Chargers Ovett's name could not be listed as a said. "He'sgofn3to make it with this mile participant in all copies of the ball club'', · program, but he confirmed that 
On the end of-quarterback Dan everything was in accordance with Foul's passes in recent years h:ave the rules. been redevers like AU-Pro John Jef­He said the details would shortly
A bappy Steve Ovett waves to spectators after Koblenz, West Germany Wednesday night. (Pboto 
ferson. In addition to Holohan, a be sent to the German Track Federa­
b~aktng fellow Briton Sebastian Coe's week-old byAssociated Press) 
seventh round pick, the Chargers tion.
1J11/e run ~cord wttb a 3:48.40 clocking In
took Erlc §S)v~rs a fourth J'Ound :; ..,._ ~ ~ .-:
--~ -.,.
..._ ....)"_ -.~.-.~~----::-..:-. -; ......_ If& I§ 
..

'W'i'" '# 





