• .Pippin -page5
• 



VOL. XV, NO. 88 an independent student news notre dame and saint s TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 10, 1981 

Atheism·thrives in Russia 
By THOMAS KENT 
Associated Press Writer 
MOSCOW Konstantin 
Petrovich Shvets, for 16 years a 
priest, is a born-a~o:ain atheist and 
proud ofit. 
One of 200 anti-religion propagandists who lecture regularly at Moscow schools and factories, Shvets says he's been happily preaching atheism since "I made my decision" to give up Christianiy in 19'59. 
"Just the other day, someone told me I was a Judas. that I had betrayed Christ," said the bald. burly Shvcts, whose t·yes shine with an evan· gelist's dedication. 
"I was a bdiever for 36 years and a priest for 16," he added In an inter· view at Moscow's "scientific At· heism Center," a rambling 19th century mansion with a permanent staff of 10. "Hut I could not go on with tht• rdigious life. I wanted to be a person with a pure conscience." 
The '58-yt·ar-old Shvets and his colleagues are the shock troops of offidally sanctioned Soviet atheism campaigns. Although churches, synagogues · and mosques are allowed to stay open in this country, years of anti-religious propaganda have taken a heavy toll on the size of congrcgations. 
Atheism "enthusiasts" as the cam­paigners call themselves, claim that only R to I 0 per cent of the Soviet Union's adults, roughly 15 million people, arc still genuinely religious. 

And they claim that each new generation has about one-third fewer religious faithful than the generation before it. 
"Bringing people to atheism Is a very slow, gradual process, and wc still have a long way to go," said Vik­tor Timofeyev, another atheism lec­
turer. 
"Remember that churches still operate in this country and have their own rights," Timofeyev said. "We aren't allowed to go into a church, grab someone by his lapels and say, 'Look, there's no God, so let's get out of here.' The police would fine us for interfering in church activities." 
Still, the Soviet Union's atheism campaigners have plenty of oppor­tuniy for their work. Moscow's "enthusiasts" say they lecture to more than 200,000 citizens a year on such subjects as "What Science Knows about jesus Christ." 
They are aided by regular anti­religious cartoons and articles in the Soviet press, a monthly atheism jour­nal called "Science and Religion" and virulent press attacks on foreign "imperialist" subversives who al­legedly play on citizens' religious feelings. 
Some Russians fear a display of religious feelings can retard their career or political advancement, al­though official policy forbids job dis­crimination on religious grounds. 
"But we have to be careful, and we can't go around just stopping people on the street and asking if they're religious," Timofeyev said. "People might say, 'What business is it of yours?"' 
900 families 

juniors entertain parents 
Hy SUE KELLEHE.R 
StaffReporter 

A splendid time was guaranteed, and had, by the juniors and their part·nts who participated in Junior Parents Weekend February 6, 7, and 
H. A rt·t·ord 900 lamilies -over ha:f of the 1600 mt·mber junior class ­attt·nded the annual event. 
Chairman William Flynn com· mented that the weekend was worthwhile and that stu<knts and parents alikt· st•t•mt·d to have a great time. "I'd rt·ally like to th;ulk everyont· who hdped out, especial· ly the committee, who did a lantastk job." The weekend hq.:an with a co<.·ktail party in the ACC's Monogram room, and featured a live hand. Chairman Mike Kennt·dy felt the event was a hit crowded, hut 
nevertheless a sun·ess. "Most of the responses I've received havt· been wry positive." he said. 

Part·nts and students attendnl l'OIIt·~o:iate workshops li>r the Arts and Letters, business and engineer­ing schools. Deans and assistant deans spoke at the workshops which were coordinated by various juniors ofeach college. Following the deans' speeches were informal "rap ses­sions" with faculty members. AI· though workshop attendance was not overwhelming, those who par­ticipated found the workshops in­formative and worthwhile. 
Liz Ann Welly chaired the mass 
held in Sacred Heart Church at 6:30 
p.m. on Saturday. The cekbrant was Rt·v. Theodore Hesburgh, and Rev. Edward Malloy delivered the homi­ly. 
Cavanaugh junior Mike Kclley chaired the President's Dinner following the mass at the ACC. Wil• liam Flynn emceed the events following the dinner including a medley of tunes by tht· Glee Club, a spee<:h by Junior Class President Michael Cassidy and an informal address by Father llesburgh. The t•vt·nts were concluded with a bless­ing by Sr. jean Lenz. 

The grand finale of the weekend was a breakfast held Sunday morning in the ACC. Rev. James Burchaell, who is on sabbatical this year, was the main speaker. Breakfast chair­man and emcee Ann Marie Hank cited Fr. Burchaell's speech as a 
SeeJUNIOR, page 3 
Boycou urged 

There's more ofthis ahead. See the weatheron page twofor the had news. (photo by Helen Odar) 
Fr. Heppen hints at housing lottery 
By MIKE DUPLESSIE 
News Staff 

The on-campus housing crunch may continue on into next year, resulting in a lottery for dorm space among next year's senior class, according to informed sources on the Ball Presidt·nt's Council. 
University Director of Student Residences Fr. Michael Heppen refused to comment on the matter, but preliminary indications are that a high number ofcontracts were returned to that office. Students cite the high incidence of off-campus crime as one reason for their reluctance to move o-c. as well as the shotgun-armed rapist who is still on the loose. 
Fr. Heppen noted that should a lottery occur, it would be for male students only. He did not elaborate. 
. 
Senatefights vendingprices 
ByJEFF CHOPPIN 
News Staff 

The high prices charged by Notre Dame's vending machines were the main topic at last night's Student Senate meeting in Hayes-Healy. The escort service and Senate reactions ti> the strip search of eight Saint Mary's students were also discussed. 
A time change for the mandatory meeting of SBP, SBVP and Student St·nate candidates was announced at last night's meeting. It has been changed from today to tomorrow at 
6:30 in the Student Government Offices in second floor LaFortun(:. 
There wa:.~ ~~ t·harge that Notre Dame's prices for sodas and candy were higher than those in local ven­ding machines. It was also charged that their markup on the products ranged from '54percent to R4percent. Terry Parker, who is manager of Flanner Food Sales, says he is familiar with the prices charged by-local distributors, and said that the prices charged by Notre Dame were "unnecessarily high." A 12 oz. soda, for example, costs Notre Dame 
5.258. Local venders are selling that soda for S.3'5 to S.40. Notre Dame machines charge $.4<;. Furthermore, the halls receive no compensation for housing the vending machines. 
When the question was raised why the halls do not rent their own vending machines, Parker said that the South Bend vending companies would not help because the ad­ministration would make them haul their machines away. 
Br. Kieran Ryan, the assistant vice president of business affairs, has been unresponsive to criticism so far, according to Parker. However, 
Parker said, Thomas Mason, vid: president for business affairs, has been more receptive. Mason said that, starting this week, soda prices would be dropped to $.40. Potato chip and candy prices will receive a formal analysis on July I, according to Mason. Mason and Ryan have stated that the reason for the high prices was to keep the cost oftuition down. 
A possible move to combat the high prices is a boycott. Parker proposed a seven-day boycott of all vending machines on campus. Pa•.alj. Riehle, SBP, proposed that the Ad­ministration keep normal profits and reimburse the halls with the addi· tional profits. It was reported by Parker that Mason was against any 
kind ofreimbursement. 
In other business, it was reported 
that the student escort service has 
been "getting better and better 
every night," according to Pat Bor­chers, who heads the escort program from the Senate. lie said that the number of escorts needed per dorm would drop from ten to live until demand picknlup. lie also proposed splitting up the participat­ing male dorms into three groups. One group would serve the North Quad, one would st·rve tht· South Quad, and one would serve the 
library. 

Riehle's reaction to tht· strip st·arch came in thrn· statements. The llrst statement was th;lt the search. although it may bt· kgal, vi­olated human privacy. Tht· second statement said that this incident may be just another instance of students getting "dumped on" by City llall. A third statement proposed that police serve a summons instead of arresting underage drinkers. This would be efficient in terms of money 
and officer's time. 

Also announced was a Student Government Smoker at Senior Bar on Tuesday, Feb. 17, from 9:30p.m. until "all the world's problems have been solved." Riehle said that an "apathy has been developing on campus, and one way to deal with it is to have a few bet·rs." 



News Brie_& 
Tuesday, February 10, 1981 -page 2 

c===~~======~====================================~
by The Observer and The Associated Preis 
Brother Kieran Ryan, assistant vice president for 
business affairs at Notre Dame since 1970, will be honored May 1 when he will recieve the James E. Armstrong Award of the Alumni Association. The annual presentation honors an employee of the Uni: 
Responsible censorship

versity "who has performed outstanding service and demonstrated 
enough. 

qualities in his personal life that reflect the high principles of the Uni· versity." The Armstrong Award was initiated in 1978 to honor the former executive director of the Alumni Association who served 42 years as secretary before his retirement in 1970. Brother Kieran, a former director of financial aid and scholarships at Notre Dame, received a business administration degree at the University in 1945. He was awarded a master's degree at New York University in 1947 and served until 1953 as vice president and dean of the commerce divi­sion at St. Edward's University. He has also served as provincial tn·asurer and steward of the Midwest Province of Brohers of Holy Cross at Notre Dame and was instrumental in the planning and con­struction of Holy CrossJunior College. -The Observer 
The defendant in a kidnap-murdertrial in 
Anoka, Minn., lunged at the star prosecution witness with a knife as she testified against him, wounding her on the neck and leaving the future of his trial in doubt. An Anoka County District Court spokes­woman said yesterday the trial of Ming Sen Shiue had been postponed and no date for resumption had been set. There was speculation a mbtrial would be declared. Shiue is on trial for kidnapping and second-degree murder in the death of six-year-old Jason Wilkman of Roseville. He pleaded innocent by reason of mental illness to both charges. As Mrs. Stauffer was on the witness stand testifying Sunday, Shiue bolted from the defense table as three stunned security officers watched. He grabbed Mrs. Stauffer around the neck and threatened to kill her, one law officer said. Mrs. Stauffer, a Baptist missionary, screamed, "Oh, my God! Someone do something!" Shiue was wrestled 
to the floor, handcuffed and dragged struggling from the courtroom. Judge Robert Bakke then cleared the room and recessed the trial. ­
AP 
Prof. Titnothy O'Meara, university provost, has commissioned the preparation ofa plan for the data automation needs of the University. The plan will focus on administrative systems and will be done by Richard A. Spencer, who will report to the provost and to the Executive Committee for Computing Policy, composed of Rev. Ferdinand L. Brown, associate provost; Robert E. Gordon, vice presi­dent for advanced studies, and Thomas]. Mason, vice president for business affairs. An assessment will be made in six areas -data processing expenditures, the status of technology, what applications are being supported, how the University is organized to provide automated services, the effectiveness of planning and control for automation, and the level of user awareness. The assessment will provide the starting point for a projection of needs over the next five to ten years as well as strategies to meet them. -The Observer 
A search committee has been appointed by the Provost for the new position ofdirector ofliturgical music at the Uni­versity of Notre Dame's Sacred Heart Church. The members are: Rev. Daniel Jenky. rector of Sacred Heart Church, chairman; Rev. Peter Rocca, assistant rector Sacred Heart Church; Rev. George Wiskirchen, assistant director of Notre Dam<: bands; Dean Isabel Charles of the College ofArts and Letters; Ethan Haimo, assistant professor of music, and Sister Patricia Dowd, rector ofBreen-Phillips Hall. Officers of the Chapel Choir will have an opportunity to meet with candidates for the position and convey their opinions to the committee, O'Meara said.· The director functions under the rector ofSacred Heart Church and holds a concurrent appointment in the Department of Music with part-time teaching responsibilities. The director's principal activities include training and leading performances of the Chapel Choir, the University's Summer Choir and ofas yet unformed year-round Sacred 
Heart choiro;. -The Observer 

, . t •
There S JUS no accounttngfor college students' taste. Who would have predicted that G. Gordon Liddy, the convicted Watergate burglar who has admitted contemplating far more heinous crimes, would be the star of the college lecture circuit while Jerry Rubin, the former revolutionary and 1960s hero would face hostile student audiences? Rubin, who traded his protest sign and jeans for a stock portfolio and three-piece suit on Wall Street, has found college students don't always warm up to his "work within the capitalist sys­tem" approach. Rubin's speeches have often been interrupted by boos and occasional cries of "sell-out." Liddy, on the other hand, often draws cheers for his "Let's get tougher, America" speeches. The con­victed Watergate burglar has appeared on more than 30 campuses this fall, and while student newspapers and some others often object to his appearance, and his S3,200 fee, audiences themselves have most often been large and attentive. -THe Observer 
Snow, heavyattitnes,throughout the day, with highs in the mid 20s. Cloudy and cold tonight, with a low of zero to five above. Partly sunny, with the high in the mid-teens tomorrow. -The 
Observer 
The recent raid on Corby's and the subsequent arrest of eight Saint Mary's women raised some amount of furor here at The Observer. An unstated policy that had, in the past, discouraged the publication ofnames ofstu­dents who were arrested and charged with underage drinking came under fire from many departme"lts. 
Obviously, we elected to publish the names, which should have relegated the whole incident to "past his­tory" status. But it hasn't. 
Opponents ofthe policy ask what we, as a newspaper, gained by making the names public. They somehow feel that the privacy of those who were arrested was vi­olated. They are unimpressed by the fact that the South Bend Tribune had "scooped" us by a full two days, having noted the names of the culprits in its Saturday edition. 
One thing that we considered in making the decision to publicize the identities of the eight was that the in­formation was public knowledge. The women were ar­rested and booked on charges they allegedly committed against society. That may sound corny and melodramatic, but that phrase defines our conception 
of the word "crime." To withhold the information in question would be to squelch something that is 
-n.\E_ FOL-LON 11-.1&
public knowledge -or, put of valor. Many times the more succinctly, it would be ~"'S 3-\&_L press is required to impose a censorship. Why should we, ~fv'\AI"-1 measure ofselfrestraint on a a group ofstudents who just ~'-{MOVS... • matter of public interest. 
happen to work for the school's newspaper, have the power to regulate what the campus knows and doesn't know? 
Sure, every day a news editor determines which of the major stories is printed in its entirety on page one, which becomes a meager news brief, and which is completely omitted. But no one deletes portions of this news to protect the guilty. Or, as in this case, the accused. 
Many people do not seem to realize that newspapers in the "real world" print the names of persons who are arrested. The only exception that. is made is for juveniles under the age of 17. If The Observer had declined to print the names, we would have offered a shelter· to those who alledgedly had committed the crime. And that is akin to tacit approval. And that, fur­thermore, is just plain unprofessional. 
Why, then, did so many people worry that we might 
somehow injure these women's reputations? We did 
not ask them to be in Corby's at the time of the raid. 
They were arrested independent of The Observer's in­
fluence. 
It should be noted that the role ofthe press is to bring 
public knowledge to the public. The media acts as a 
historical record in many cases, and is often catalogued 
and referred to as a research document. For this reason 
too, The Observer had to consider the long-range conse­
quences of boycotting this piece of information. Years 
from now, should the case be important to anyone, we 
would be accountable for what we had recorded and 
r-The_Ohs.erY-er_ 
Design Editor............. Ryan Vcr Berkmocs 
Destg11 Assista11ts ............... Maura Murphy Rich Fischer 
layout Staff................................. Tonia flap 
Jell" Moore. Kim Parent. Randy Rentner 
Scoop Typesetter ............................... Bruce Oakley News Editor.............................. Lynne Daley Copy Editor........................ Connie Cooney 
Lynne Daley Features layout.................... Molly Woulfe Sports Copy Editor.............. Beth Huffman 
Typist ··························•:·············Katie Bigane Cindy Jones Svstems Co11trol .................... Tim Debelius ND Day Editor ......................... Lynne Daley SMC Day Edltor...................... John Higgins Ad Design ....................... Woody &Jeannie Photographer ....................... Tim McKeogh Guest Appearances ............. Monica Gugle Koob and the vanishing AP 
• • • 4).


'• SPRINGSTEEN • REFUNDS 
are available at the 
STUDENT UNION 
TICKET OFFICE 
9:00 am -4:30 pm BRING ID and RECEIPT 
~REFUNDS AFfER FRii FEB.13 -.. 

what we had neglected to record. That, when you think about it, is an awesome responsibility, and one that should not be dismissed lightly merely because we are "not a professional newspaper." 
Many people would have preferred to deprive the campus of its right to know the facts. But, had anyone called the police station, they would have been given the names in an instant. Those who wanted to know would have been able to find out. And they could have accused us of not doing our job. They would have been nght. 
This problem poses an interesting question to the media as a whole. While this case may have been cut­and-dried, there are instances where journalistic 
discretion is the better part 
Take, for instance, the case of the Americans trapped in Iran after the seizure of the embassy. They remained in hiding at the Canadian em­bassy while the Canadian government struggled to smuggle them to safety. Meanwhile, the New York Times knew of these ex­ploits and kept mum. It derived no benefit from this other than the satisfaction that by remaining silent, these people were freed. Certainly that was payment 
There are instances when "silence is golden," just as there are times when silence accomplishes nothing other than appeasing a few consciences. It would have been eas;' to withhold the names, and it might have made some ofus feel good inside. But, there would have been nagging notions offavoritism in some minds. After all, if some big athlete were arrested in a bar raid we would probably publish such information with glee. Professional glee, that is. 
The Observer may not be professional on the same level as The Times, but we do strive for some degree of excellence. If we didn't, there would be no reason for any of this. 

Observer Note.__ 
The Observer is looking for nell' uriters. Call the office at 8661, 1715 or 7471 for more infonnation. 
Editorial Board and Department Managers 

Editor-in·Chief......., .............................. Paul Mullaney Sports Editor...........................................Beth Huffman Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 Managing Editor..........................................Mark Rust Features Editor.......................................Molly Woulfe 
The Observer is an independent newspaper published by the students of the Editorials Editor..............................Michael Onufrak Photo Editor ...............................................john Macor University of Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily SeniorCopyEditor.....................Mary Fran Callahan reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported Executive News Editor.........................Tom jackman Business Manager ..................................Greg Hedges as accurately and as objectively as possible. Editorials represent the opinion of a News Editor...............................................Pam Degnan Controller........................................................Jim Rudd majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, opinions, and letters are the views News Editor...............................................Lynne Daley Advertising Manager...................................Mark Ellis of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community, and SMC Executive Editor..........................Margie Brassil Circulation Manager............................Beth Hackett the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged. SMC News Editor......................................Mary Leavitt Production Manager...........................)ohn McGrath 
==Ihe_Obsaver== 


The Observer Tuesday, February HJ, 1981 -page 3 
New dormitories 'Wccup' 
By MOLLY NOLAND hut the architect ( Ellerby & Ellerby) jurisdiction over the Notre Dame Neu•s.\'taff and/or the builders accidentally campus. Therefore, the proximity of built Pasquerilla East approximately Pasq ucrilla East to Grace defies no 
The two new women's dorms, 20 feet further south than zoning regulations. Pa.~qucrilla East and West, wert· Pasquerilla West. With regard to the "leaning tower ddibcratdy built unaligned, and arc Dedrick said that the purpose in of Notre Dame," or the new Stepan not tht· product of a large construc­this asymmetrical design wa.~ to Chemistry Center which several stu­tion blunder, DircctorofND's Physi­"create a wall with Grace against dents and faculty members swear to cal Plant Donald Dedrick said. "You Juniper Road, thereby giving more he leaning toward the library, both just do not make major mistakes like privacy and creating a courtyard." Donald Dedrick and Bernard foster, that," ht· said. "From the very begin­There are two major reasons the head of the construction site, ning we never considered running Pasquerilla West was built ap­deny hearing such a rumor, and also 
montgomery® 

the dorms even." proximately twenty feet to the south deny that the building is in fact slant­The Past1ucrilla controvt·rsy con­of Pasqucrilla East. First of all, ing to the cast. foster remarked that will conduct interviews
n·rns the approximately 20-foot dis­Pasquerilla West was built upon a the building, to he completed next 
on this campus 

cn·pancy between Pasquerilla East steam tunnel which would have had December, "has solid foundations 
TUESDAY,FEB.17,&

and West and whether they were to he moved to create a symmetrical and is not leaning." 
WEDNESDAY, FEB.18. 

built this way on purpost· or by acci­C. Secondly, more space, or an Career dent. Many students and faculty opening for the courtyard was positions in bdit'vt· that the dorms were in­desired on the west side. vertical tended to bt· symmetrically aligned, Backing up Dedrick's denial ofany transportation 
construction or architectural 
MARKETING/ MANAGEMENT

mistakes, Father Richard Conyers, 
will be discussed 

rector of Keenan Hall anti member 
with degree 
.Junior

• • of the August, 1979 advisory com­
candidates in 

mittee for the new dorms, remarked 
BUSINESS 

that the new dorms 
were ADMINISTRATION. contlmwdfrom {Jtl[~e I "engineered to be offset -a sort of For more 'hiccup' setup was desired to make a information 
major highlight. "Fr. Burchadl's 
'piazza,' or Italian courtyard." about 
uniqut· vit·ws on the familial bond Montgomery
According to Conyers, a piazzabrought tears to many parents and and our future
needs to be open on one sidt·, and 
students' eyes," she said." lie verbal­visit to your
relatively closed on the other. The 
campus,

ly exprt·sst·d the idea ht·hind the small, nearly closed entranceway 
contact your

whole weekend." In a lighter vein, between Grace Hall and Pasquerilla 
placement

the humorous insights related hy East forces channeling of traffic like 
office.

Junior Class Vice-President Megan 
a gate would. Uoylc brought many a chuckle. The 
Conversely, the larger entran­breakfast was concluded with a 
ceway between Flanner Hall and prayt·r hy lkv. Mario l'cdi. 
Pasquerilla West crt·ated a spacious illusion and opens the Piazza onto the center of capus. If Flanncr and AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY 
EMPLOYER

Pasquerilla West were any closer on
Conservatism 
Montgomery Elevator Company, Moline, Illinois 61265 

the west, a visual block would be 
Montgomery Elevator Co .. Limited. Toronto. Ontario M9B3S5

created. 
Offices in principal cities of North America

forum to meet 
Anotlwr major reason cited hy Father <:onyers for tll'c uneven
The American Political Forum formation ofthe new dorrus was that
will hold its st·cond discussion ofthe they were designed so that the trees
semc:stcr tonight at 7 p.m. in room would not be destroyed; the trees 
This Wednesday and Every Wedn~sday ...

IOH O'Shaughnessy. The title of provide privacy and beauty and
tonight's discussion is "Too Much should not be needlessly eliminated.
<:onservatism?". All interested in­
ND/SMC SPECIAL 

An additional consideration ·
dividuals are invited to attend. which added fuel to the rumors of
Copks of tht· text of tonight's 
Pitcher of Beer $2.00

the dorms being out of line concern
prt·sentation will ht· available on the 
the South Bend zoning laws and Pitcher of Pop $.75
built in board of room IOH regulations which require a
O'Shaughnessy until the time of the 
with purchase of a large pizzc.

spccitkd distance between two
discussion. For further inlim11ation, t·all dther l{oh Gould or Dan buildings. Conyers explained that 
Tuesday & Thursday

South Bend zoning laws have noGonalt·s at 277-06') I. 
$100 Off ROAD TRIP Any Large Pizza Thursday
Virginia vs. 
$100 Off

N.D. Any
Basketball Game at 
CHICAGO HORIZON 
Sun. FEB. 22 
520.00 ( ticket and transportation ) PIZZA KING 
Tickets on sale, in S.U. Ticket office NORTH
Limited Number Available Sponsored by YOUR Student Union Union 
U.S. 31 North Roseland Across From Big "C" Lumber

Ocean Front Hotel
SPRING 
Rooms in Lauderdale
BREAK 
This Spring Break? 
CarryOut Dial 272·6017 

'81! 
Student Suntrips offers: e As low as $139/person/wk e All motels conveniently 
OPEN EV·ERY DAY 

located on the strip e limited space available 
MON.-THURS. 11 :00 -12:00 For Reservation Info. 
FRI. & SAT. 11:00-1:00 call toll-free 1-800-848-9540 
SUN. 4:30-11:00 In Ohio 1-800-282-3432 
ARRANGEMENTS BY STUDENT SUNTRIPS. INC Us For Your Pizza Parti 

The .Obsen!er====-=--==-=--== 
Toda~=======================T=u=e=sd=ay=,=F=eb=r=u=ary=l=O,:::l=9=8=1=p=a=ge=4= 
Molarity Michael Molinelli
Campus 

•12:
l 5 p.m. -noontalk, "the snite museum ofart," dr. dean a. porter, annenberg auditorium. ­

•4:30 
p.m. semi­nar,"neuroendocrine regula­tion of the juvenile hormone titer during insect metamor­phosis," dr. noel! a. granger of northwestern, room 278 galvin auditorium. 

•7:00 
p.m. -film, "chaplin's first national films," ( 1918­1923) annenberg audiorium. 

•7:00 
p.m. -discussion, "too much conservatism," sponsored by the american political forum, I08 o'shaughnessy. 

•8:00 
p.m. -seminar, "a per­sonal perspective on carter's foreign policy," col. gail bul­mer, cavanaugh hall study lounge. 


Doonesbury 
Garry Trudeau 
IA/tU, 7DPAY'5 7H& BIG OAY, MR. [)(}f(E ( 
1-W's rrr&a. w813 
t301NG HOME A 
'tW EJe"t7ER BW&VE IT. 
/TsGtXJO~ 
MY IJP 70 50% 0/S­I#HATr COfNTS IN WIJR. 1-lMEWN.
\ 





Tuesday, February 10, 1981 -page 5 

Features 
'Pippin' Dazzles Crowds 


S
tudent produnions o~t~n rcncct thc_fac~ that thcyare student produnions. Ihey lack dcdtcatton, en· thusia~m. style, and skill. Pippin, however, has none of these faults. The Notn· Dame Student Players put on a show that is a stTia.\hing success. Performing to a sold· out house on Saturdav evening, thc cast rcccivcd a 
standing ovation upon its finale. 
Tht· play indudcs a number ot fine individual pcrfor­mant·cs. Most notable is that ofSophomore Mike Kelly, Pippin himself. Pippin is till' son ofCharlemagne, the King of the Holy Homan Empire. Finding himself disen­chanted with hb existence, young Pippin attempts to find for himselfsome perfect happiness. Kelly inspires both laughs and sympathy as he blunders his way through various attt·mpts to achieve this sublime happi­ncss. lie llnds no solace in war, sex or power; where is the answer? 
Charkmagnc. playt·d by Tony Mockus, proves to he no help, as he is mort· concerned about being a giant in tht· ht•droom than hl'ing a good fatht:r. Pippin's steamy, scheming step-mother, Fastrada (Susan Grocst·hcl) is too busy attempting to install her son, Ixwis, as heir to worry about Pippin's quest also. 
Lewis, portrayed by Michad Taylor, is t·xn·pt"ional as Pippin's vain, dim-witted step-brother. Wht·tht·r polish­ing his armour in tlw sun or prancing about slaying \'isigoths, Taylor's sdf-ahsorht·d manner grab~ the audktll'e'~ attcntion. 
Providing a link encouragemt·nt in Pippin's quest is his <irandmothcr, Ikrthe (Mary Fr;mcdi ). Although she t;tils to supply him with ~pedtk an~wt·r~ she docs dis­courage him from pursuing war. noting that Men raise flag~ wlwn they can't get anything else up. 
At this point Pippin despair~. II is search seems hope­less; ht· give~ up on Iiii:. Acharming young widow (Chrbtine llechinger) along with her precocious son Tht·o (Jt·remy Manier) and his pet duck Otto provide him with a temporary rdicfto his plight. But he still is not ~atislkd. IIis final n·alization and solution w his prohlt·m gt·nerates the play's climanic and memingful <.'onclusion. 
Hick Dohring, dubbed th<.· Leading Playt~r. not only 
provides till' play with continuity through his narration, 
hut also It-ads many ofthe musical's song and dance 
routines. Dohring's energy and asides lend an added 
sparkk to an aln·ady hrillant production. Pat Byrnes 
also instills the play with mt·morable comedy as the 
talking lu·ad. 

John Macor and Molly Woulfe 
john Macor is Photography Editor ofThe Observer. Molly Woulfe is Features Editor. 

justice Teach-in Week Begins 
T
his is tht· week ofthe fourth annualjustice Teach-in. Many faculty members have indicatt·d that they plan to fo<.·us a portion of their dass activities around justice issues during the week. The importance of integrating all subject matters with a Christian aware­ness ofand perspective of justice is undeniable. Teac­hc.·rs ~hould feel a responsibility and students should demand the opportunity to discuss the justice issuc.~s arising from each class subject. 
Thejustice Teach-in wec:k is organized by theJustice Education Subcommittee ofthe University Education for Justice Committee. It is their hope that all teachers will allocate some of the most valuable resource, time, to thejustice Teach-in effort during this week. They fed that seminars and speeches on justice will have littk or no lasting impact unless the content ofthese ef­
l'ippin (Mike Kelf:r) and King Charles (Tony Mockus) 
The chort·ography ofPippin, arranged by Maureen Manier, is as professional as the play's acting. Par­tkularly stunnmg 1s the erotic dance sequence where Pippin is almost lured into the pleasurable, but empty world oflust. Set to red light and a throbbing drum beat, the dancing is, in itself, powerfully provocative. The choruo; ofPlayc:rs must be cspecially commended for • this scene: as well as for their support in the others. The bright and bizarre costumes ofthe chorus arc further accentuated by the simple stage setting. 
The only drawback to this play's success is the fact that it is held in Washington Hall. With its archaic acoustical set-up, and poor lighting systems, there is no wonder a~ to why the band sometimes over-whelmed the singers and why lighting miscues occurred. These problems appeared to be almost beyond the control of the: cast and crew, and they are to be commended for working with such limited facilities. 
Although Pippin is a comedy ofgreat merit, there is much thought-provoking material in the plot. Pippin's search for a perfect happiness is grounded in the human experience. Consequently, since the play demonstrates the fact ofhuman imperfection, a perfect happiness can not exist. One must choose between a real, but com­promised and limited happiness, ora deceptive life sur­rounded only by temporal pleasures. Pippin's search ends qnly after much mental toil; his final situation is trapped, but happy. The play can be looked upon a-; a ac­centuation ofthe human experience; and Pippin is the 
eyes through this experience. 
forts can be related to tht• academic materials that the students arc studying, discussing and analyzing in their classrooms. It is their hope that students will he actively involved in analyzing these issues in terms ofthe sub­jects and disciplines they are studying. 
"Justice, Competence and Success" is the theme ofa seminar to he held tomorrow at 7:30p.m. in Room 120 ofthe Hayes-Healy Center. Apanel will be discussing Its views, attitudes and perceptions at that time. Members ofthe panel include: Sal Bella, Management; Ed Gaffney, Law; Denis Goulet, O'Neil Chair in Education for 
Justice; and Murty Kanury, Engineering. This seminar 
promises to he very informative, interesting and 
thought-provoking. All should make a concerted effort 
to be there. 

Feolures Writer 
Italics Mine 
Guess Who? 
T
he question mark ha.-; traditionally been a symbol ofSt. Vak-ntinc's 
Day. The 14th of February was always a festival welcomed hy the 
shy. On that day the secret admirer could send a lal.·y heart or rose to 
the beloved ":ithout attaching his name. An inarticulatc boy could · 
compose a poem to the golden curls and adorable dimples ofthe 
school belle, and slip it onto her desk unsigned. He could evc.·n watch 
her open it from his scat across the classroom; he could sec her charm­
ing blush -or possibly her hurtful scorn. If the latter, at least his 
secrecy protected him. 
Agentle wallflower could send a sentimental verse to the high 
school football star she had been yearning for, signed with quc.·stion 
mark. Perhaps he would show it to his girlfriend, the prom quecn, and 
they would both laugh -a painful thought. But perhaps he would 
keep it to himsclf, furtively scanning faces to find the one which might 
betray its sweet secret. Ifhe met her eyes -hut the gentle walltlowcr 
would go no further in her dream. It wa.~ enough for her to have 
expressed her love. 
That wa.-; thc great boon ofSt. Vakntine's Day: the chance it gave to 
the ha.-;hful, the incpt, the clumsy, the gauche, to express thdr loVl.' 
without fear ofridicule or rejection. Atrue Valentine declaration can­
not bc rejected because it asks for nothing. It is a one-way ollcring. It 
says only "I love you." It does not dcmand: "Love me hack." 
This quality ofSt. Valentine's Day ha.~ been obscured in curr<.·nt practice. The festival as wc celebrate it today is no tliftcrent from othc.·r gift-giving feasts, on which prt·sents art• presl.·ntnl, exclaimed over, and acknowledged Cards sent, and gifts otJcred on Christma.'i, birthdays, Mother's Day, graduations, and othn such occasions arc the symbols ofaffections which both parties al·knowledge. 
Granted, acknowledged lovers give each otlwr Valentines. But Valentine's Day has traditionally been the one chance for unack­nou•ledged lovers to express their yearnings. It's a hitterswcct solace -yes -but it is a solace to address a tribute to tht· one you admire silently and from afar. The shy Iovcrs of the world ought not to he defrauded of their day. 
f.~· 
There is a singular beauty in a gift oflove which asks no recognition or response or thanks. Think ofCyrano de Bcrgerac, the homely man with the huge nose, who composed eloquent poetry to the woman he: loved, wooing her on behalfof his friend. The very fact that the lady was out ofhis reach, that he had no hope for himsdf, gave his lyrics the exquisite passion that won her heart for the man Cyrano imper­sonated. 
Silent lovers have an honorable plal.·e in literature. Think ofllolden Caulfield, wistfully watching Stradlatcr groom himselffor a date with the girl Holden secretly cares for. Think ofJay Gatsby, pacing the Ia~;n ofhis estate and looking over the waters at the lights of Daisy Buc­
hanan's home. 
Valentine's Day should be a feast ofquestion marks, mysterious en­velopes, anonymous poems, roses quietly left on doorsteps, sen~nadcs sung from the shadows beneath windows. The shy, the hopelessly yearning, should have the gossamer satisfaction ofoffering their un­
signed tokens oflove. Gentle wallflower, find the stanzas that Emily Dkklnson and Emily Bronte composed for their unwitting lovers. Inscribe a_quotation 
beautifully on a thick white card and mail it to your own unwitting beloved. Or compose your own. Clumsy swain, there are Shakespearean sonnets galore to describe the lips, eyes, hair, and . other charms ofthe girl who doesn't know you adore her. There is also Hallmark. Slip a pink envelope under her door and steal silently away. 
But no cheating, Shy Ones! Don't hide your initials under the stamp. Don't use a cipher ofnumbers, or a code word, or a hint in a foreign language to encourage your beloved to guess who you arc. You'll spoil it that way. Once you start hinting, you'll start hoping. You'll start wan­ting a response, waiting for an acknowledgment, feeling disgruntled and disappointed ifnothing comes ofit. No, the beauty ofa real valentine is that is is a free tribute, a generous, pure, undemanding 
proffer oflove. It puts no obligation whatever on the receiver. And the reward for the giver is nothing at all hut the frail joy ofhaving done something graceful and gallant. 
Shy Ones ofthe world, this is your day. Seize it! 

The Observer Tuesday, February Hl, 1981 -page 6 
Flowers 

will say it lovingly to your Valentine. 
Let Judy Blue and Jay Davis-Reed help you pamper your Valentine this year. 
The Blue Jays Nest 
Your florist in UNIVERSITY CENTER 6502 N. Grape Rd. Mishawaka 
277-6776 

FlflWl'rs st-nl anvwherP • Visa • Master Card 
continuedfrom page 8 
made him a much stronger swimmer and has helped him recuperate from the shoulder injury. 
To say that all of Mike Shepardson's off-season work has paid off would have to be an under­statement. He has shown little mercy towards his opponents or the record books this year, as in littl<: more than half a season he has broken three pool records, a varsity record and two meet records. 
He specializes in the SO and 100 freestyle events, along with being a member of the medley and freestyle relay teams. His contributions have been a major factor in the success of this year's team, which currently sports a 6-1 record. 
The only loss the team has suf­
fered this season occurred over the 
weekend against Marshall University 
and the meet has been protested to 
the highest of all governing bodies, 
the NCAA, because of a disqualifica­
...Shepardson 
tion assessed to a victorious Notre Dame relay team. Ifthe protest is up­held, the Irish will have won the meet and own a perfect 7-0 record. 
Impossible as it may seem, Mike Shepardson has also found time while at Norre Dame to become very involved in student govern­ment. Two years ago he was elected President of the Freshman Advisory Council. Last year he served on the Flanner Hall Judicial Board and was Student Housing Commissioner, and this year he has served as President ofFlanner Hall. 
Shepardson had planned to run for Student Body President this Spring, but is currently reconsider­ing that decision since his vice· presidential candidate abruptly announced to him over Junior Parent's Weekend that he, too, would run for Student Body Presi­
dent. 
As for the future. \like Shepardson feels that due to the efforts of Coach Dennis Stark, the swimming 


6:30pm 


Attention SBP/SBVP and 
Student Senate 
in the Student Government Offices 2nd Floor La Fortune 
program is no longer treading water. "Coach Stark is just a super in­dividual, he's always around to help with problems and he's always wil­ling to listen and help regardless of 
the situation. 
"There will be a meeting soon about starting a scholarship program for the swim team. We have also al­ready had one scholarship named for us, and I feel that with a few more scholarships this program would really take off." 
A little more support from the stu­
dent body in the way of attendance 
would also help the swimming 
program tremendouslr. Attendance 
has increased lately due to the 
team's excellent record but it still 
isn't as good as it could be. Granted, 
a swim meet may not be the most 
exciting event imaginable, but 
check one out sometim"e. You just 
might !>ee Mike Shepardson shatter a 
few more records. 
.Hensley 
continuedfrom page 8 
most on defense. She is just so smart 
out there, she has become a jack-of· 
all-trades. On this team, she can give 
us a boost in a couple of different 
positions, which is a tremendous ad· 
vantage." 
But Hensley sees a role on the 
team which exceeds court boun· 
daries. "Being a sophomore and a 
new person, I can help the freshman 
around Notre Dame. I'm kind of a 
transition-llelper for the freshman, 
so they can adapt to the different at­
titudes at Notre Dame." 
DiStanislao also sees a role that 
Hensley fills. "Debbi Hensley is 
regarded as a freshman because she 
is a new player this year, but she has 
made such tremendous strides that 
she's very much a leader by ex· 
ample, and I see her growing into an 
important role on this team." 

The Interhall Office has announced two more raqut·t­balllournaments (an "open" tournament and a mixed doubles tourna­mt·nt) with deadlint· for entries tomorrow. Anyone on campus (students, faculty and staff) is eligible for the "open" singles tourna­ment. For mort· information, call the Interhall Office at 61 00. 
Bob Tull has been nanted the new head football coach at Mishawaka Marian lligh School. Tull, who served the last st·ason under Gerry Faust as an assistant coach at Moeller High School, is a 197H graduate of Notre Dame. A native ofSouth Bend and alumnus ofSaint Joseph's lligh School, Tull played football as a walk-on at Notre Dame and lettert·d during the 1977 National Championship season. lit• tht·n rt·maint·d with the Irish tt·am as a graduate assistant undt'f Dan Devine liJr two years. -The Obseruer. 
Sports tneeting 
6:30 Thursday 
Observer office 



Newcomers welcome 
• • .Boston 
continuedfrom page 8 
press conference last Sunday that he was attending Georgetown. So, it looks like Boston lJ. will have to live with obscurity for a while. 
Notre Dame, meanwhile, is com­ing oft' their heartbreaking o; I-SO loss to UCLA on Sunday afternoon. Coach Phdps hopes that his starting unit will rebound from its sub-par performance against the Bruins. Guards John Paxson and Traq Jackson combined for only IS points, while forward Orlando 
Woolridge contributed just 13 points and a single gorilla dunk. Cen­ter Tim Andree was limited to zero points and three personal fouls in just six minutes ofplaying time. 
Only forwards Kelly Tripucka and Tom Sluby had what could bt• clas­sified as good games for the Irish on Sunday. 
But that is precisely why teams like Boston University are on Notre Dame's schedule -it provides an opportunity for the Irish to rebound from a poor performance and, also, to gain momentum for the next tough opponent. 
Or, as Digger said, in jest, at Satur­day's UCLA pep rally when asked why he had put St. Mary's (Calif.) on the schedule, "I needed a win." 
IRISH ITEMS: Tonight's game is the last game of the current six­game homestand... On Saturday, the Irish travel to Raleigh, N.C., for a Valentine's Day date with Jim Val­vano's North Carolina State Wolfpack... Then, they return home 
Sup(•rb body control isjust one ofthe fa(· tors contributing to}oh11
to face Fairfidd on February 16. 
Paxson's.s.uccess at the guard position. (photo by Tim McKeogh) 
-----------------------____.. ·-.. 
--------------------------------~ 
/\II I.J-.'odti••l ddS llllJ~I to•· It'• #JVI•tl 1,, 4 4!,) p nl I-NII ddyS .Jii·.Jf 1\1 I he" 
•:,.,,,,. ,,, o·'ldll· h lt11• t 11 ''• 11111 Tt":'OhsiH\ItH .,/fret• wdl d;, t!p1 cl.l~srf.P.t1!. 
Mt~nd.li thrtlllljh rrld.t, 11) on ,\Ill 1•1''1 ()(J IJ m /\II !'l.iitllfl!n1s Ill USI b~

Classifieds 
;11o· li.tld •' 111'1 111 IH'r'SiJI• \•I ri11.,•Hjl• llu~ 1ndil 

~=====::::,-·----.·-..-UO ,..,_,,__,,...,...,.__,? __ 
~· I ..... , __,__,_ .. --___4_,.. __''"'''""""'•1.....__, -------~==.::::::::::::::~ 
LOST: GOLD MEDALLION WITII FOR SALE: 1974 M~r<:ury Cougar. SOCIAL CONCERNS FILM SERWS S~ND A SINGING VALENTINE. Brad llauscr throw~ squirrc..·l~ ovl·r
L-------CJ
NOTICES 
PICT!IRE OF JES!IS AIIO!IT SIZE OF Ca1127l4. CONTINI !ES TillS WEEK WITII AVAII.AIIl.E MON. AND TllliRS. AT hridKt.'!\, stomp~ on turlll.'!\, and ht·t· DIME. LOST FKIDAY NIGIIT HE· 1101 IND Fl >R GI.OKY 80TH I>INING IIAI.I.S. J.7~ I'OR lt.·r yl"t, hiles off gerhil ht.·ads. Girls of --·--------TWHN CAKROI.L IIAI.I. PARTY FOR SALE· STANI.EY KAI'I.AN MCAT PitONE CAI.I., Jl. ~0 IN l'ERSON, Notre.· Damt:' -wouldn't you likl' a 
KOOM AND MORRISSEY IIAI.I. !lOOKS. EXCEU.ENT CONDITION SAY IT IN SON<i!! TilE SMC AND SliNG OY MEMBERS OF TilE datt.' with thht maniac?~!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! PRO~l'.SSIONAL TYPING. T"rm 
NOTRE DAME CIIORALL P"l"'""· IMOC:O, "IC TIP" lrUIIICrlp­
PARTY ROOM. CAI.I. TRISII 41· ANI> <iOOil I'KICE. CALL JANET WOMEN'S CIIOIR WILL liE SEL· 
464~. l77-7776 !.lNG SINGIN(i VALENTINES ON m• ----------­llnn. l.a~ y"ar's """"' low prices. All CONGRATlli.ATIONS IIETSY-­J!IST Wtii;N YO!I TI!Oll(,lfT IT
TII!IRSDAY AND FKIDAY IN

work guaramero. aardvark 
IlAI.EIGII WILl. NEVER liE TilE WAS ~AFE TO <iO IIACK INTO Till' au10ma1k •nlullnns. 289-6753. 
SMITII CORONA l'ln'lrk porlabk LEMANS IIAI.L COST IS .~0 HJR

~-------·-] 
lypt.·wrilt:'r in carrying c:&st.·. S160. VALENTINES (VIA PIIONES) TO SAM I; KIT<.IIEN-FREDRICK II!!!!!!! L~OR RENT IIOOVEK porlahk washing Till' ND AND SMC CAMPUSES AND 
MOM, DAD AND TOM Nil loolball pholograph• n"ed"d for 
machint·. JllO. llolh m·goliahk. Call l.OO H>R I.ON<i DISTANCE CAI.I.S. TilE DATIN!i GAM!; .. Fill DAY NIT I' •pla.•hy loolhall bunk. Play·a<:tlon, 

IN TilE IJII.I.ON !'ARTY KOOM slddlne•. !an•. lh~ worb. Color, 
l:I7..JI!H (H-~) W~l'kda)'' & 2~')-IIIG VAKIETY OF VALENTINES TO 
6179 alter<> & wkmls. UIOOSE FROM. FOil MOllE INH> 1): Whal do rou g~l srrip·S<·ardu·d CONTESTANTS UIO~EN AT RAN·Will pay U for 11<,.1011 (I G.A.'s onb/w. Any fool ball era bul musl M CAl.!. MONICA AT 41-~ I ~4 . f(Jr in th'-' Yukon? DOM FROM TilE <.KOWD l 0 -l.

I'd>. I0. Call Tratt')' 'ilO(J ( SMC)ablt· lo idrnllfy. Fe~ per photo UIICd. 

A: A Moosc.·(kmeanor. Photo crcdil K]vcn in book. Submll 
Pt:nguin, \tooM.' Control c.·n·dits thou ont.· 10 In lku-.y'!ot room, lhc.·n· 11rc.· picture~ olAllTISTS! ...llTISTS1 ARTISTS! Th~l'Hntac.·t ~ht·et!tt or ponfnlio to h.:aru.,.; 

W~ and Miss PiK)I)' wish you a llappy I J.ul Sill~ frtJm Darhy'~. Kc..·c.·p lht,~c.· la·r III'.ROES on lh<· wall. hul lo K<'lCollq(iall' Jat.z h·!'ltival nt.Td!'. you toPr~.-. llox I I. NOirt· Dam<· ( l'J I· 

21 slllinhday! ( Jn.h and ktlt:'rs coming! to lkt~y·~ room you J40Cl01 waiJ... tlw

dt.'!'lit(n T-Shirt!'l, Logos, c.·tc If you
Hl)(l) 
Batman, l{ohin, <:atwtJman & Riddlc.·r darknc.'!'l!\ of Md:atH.IIc.·!\!'1 flaW

han· and idc.·a:rt or SUAAl'Mion~ plt.·aS4..' 
I nt'l'd ~-6 Dayton GA!\. Pka~t.· call 
.\1 ulfy Rogers, P.S. Rt.•mt.·mht.·r Kdly Tripu~:ka. if you~uhmil lht.·m to Sttu.knt Activities in

I nt·t·d a ridt· to 1.\'./Rioominglon Monka al ·11·51 '\4 !1-lary Ann Ckary. Thi~ pt:'rsnnal is not dirty. II'~ just wanna he.· wild -yuu gnl 01 lot toLafort unt:' or l.·all Sandy Pan cot:' a1Vakntlnt·'~ Wt.'l'kt·nd. Will !than· all Jot:' Z. ~ends hi~ rq~.ard!\. Ron Jlaynes l.·utl.'. 'Will you ht.· my Vakntine? lt-;trn.
6169. You will he: rt:'warded if rour
npt·n,.·• <.all I .lain· ~non I d~spt·rall'l)' nn·d ·1 GA and l slu· 
i~ ~till around. The.· Sorin LUIH.'h Cluh llmmm?

dn.iJ(n i~ d1o~l·n!!!!!!!! 
d~lll ND-Daywn lkkt·ls!!! Will pay 
kind ofdit'd, hut thost~ of u~ who Mill Till' llahy h·lluw !\Wisht.·r~­U J l'kast· nil Liza a1 12~H. 
attl'nd miss you. Kf<: was around last l.a.'t nilr(ht lht.· nkt· KUY!\ tlm!\hn.l tlrM 

Nt't'd ridt· 10 ST I.!Jl11S lh~ w~~kmd SMC'S ARE PEOPLE, TOO. WAKI' liP Wl'l'k, hul I didn'l K~l 10 ·~~ her. I'm 
Two down, thret• mot.· 1o KO. Partyof h·h I 3 and Ft·h 20. Can !caw Dnpcraldy nn·d Daylun G. A. and AND SMELL Tm: COI'fEE, NIJ!! 

off. triday.>ll)'lim~. Call !lob 1066 Studc:nt Tix. Good mont·y!!! Pll'asc: 
P.S. Pt·lt·'s •hirl wa• u!lly! nlll.yn al 2737. 
LOVl', 
AI.L PERSONNEL PHJI>l£ AGREE:
Jl!

IIELP1 I N~~d Rid~ 1o Madbon FEll WE LOVE SMC'S IIECAliSii. SMC'S 
Wha1 do lht· lri•h ha•k<·lhall 1<·am, 13 CALI.l.H·OlH NHDED!1! 2 GA 1ix 10 lkl'aul vs. AilE I'EOPLE, TOO!! 
St.·ouish music, and pourlotk LOST: ONE PAIR 01' Mt:N'S GLOVES 
ND. Pkas~ .:all. Call Calhy 41-431-10. 
OPEN A DOOR TO TilE SOP· 

Amt:'rit:an song.' havt· in t.·ommon? ON ST. MAllY'S SIHI'ITLE. IIEIGE 
I!OMORE I.ITERARY l't:STIVAI. 
HAPPY IIIRTIIDAY SUSIE l.ANMAN 

NOTHING. WITII llROWN SliEIJE fACING. II' DESPERATELY NEED I 0 Sl. Frands !!!
TilE l'liLFILLMENT OF TilE

fOIINU, PI£ASE CAI.l.llOilllY 10611. GAs by friday Please t'all Laura al Th~ llarn. 
ll~y Hob llouhall, you t·ul~ lhing. H042. Will pay. 
PROMISE DEPENDS ON fAIT! I. 
Huw t.·omt· you don't rt.·at.l the pt·r­

N~~d ridl' 10 lndpls. Can leave fri TODAY 
!rton:.d l'nlumn anymore? You lll'Vt'r CAI.Cllt.ll~ BOOK, 2ND I'I>ITION, l/ I 3 or Sal. Call Pam I :161 jana, 
know wh~n on~ will appt·ar for YOU fOliNI> IN ACC I.OI.KEil ROOM. hopei didn'l borl' you 10 l~ars friday !!!!! What?? or c.:ourst• 1 IOVl' you, GIVE A SMC THE TIME OF
[_ PERSONALS I DAY!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!

CAI.I.H722. Ridn• n~~dl'd lo MII.W !lave Thurs nitc:--thanks for your t•ars. t wish 1 chinkt·ns!! 
2-ll a1 3pm 233-6061-1 didn't talk so mul'h! see you soon,HEY ·, WAKE UP!!!!
LOST: REI.IGIO!IS MJ;t>AI. IN sc:oop
INSTANT CASH PAll> FOR CI.ASS SMC'S ARJ; PEOPLE, TOO.

RO!.KNI: MEMORIAl. ON RINGS, J20· Jll5 OR MORE. WE GEEI'loRS! Jant:'-0, 
Tll!IR.~I>AY. I /2'.J. SENTIMI;NTAI. JOE IIOFfMAN: 
S1ill no kll~r YAI.IIf. CAI.L BARRY AT 21·10 liRA VO! VF.RY NICE SOI.O,IIliT 
MAKE HOUSE CAI.IS l~~-2402. • 

FORSALO Tim 
WHERE I>ID YOll DISAPPEAR TO
Lynne: liE NICE TO MAT WINTER!! OR

I.OST: 111.111; DOWN JACKET AT AnER THE CONCERT?
Uave you greasc:d your knees? I DIE'! SomclltlnK is dr~adfully wrong.

SENIOR liAR WEI>Nt:SI>AY. PI£ASE Tlilo ! :OTAI>EI. KID
h:ttc noisy kf )ohing. There was a typo~raphkal error in CAI.I.IlARil AT 41-4711. 
Mr. Ryan ­

l'or Sail' I'.J74 AMC llornt'l. Good To lhc <:ulc girl who all' lwic~ .. .l y~slerday's mooS<' jokt· Yukon 
HEY SKINNY!

Condilion. J20U apologize. Will you forgive me? was mis...pdkc.J. 1 am Capt<tin Axt.· of 
I.OST· Men'• <iold W•rt·h. Call 2H· Thanks for salvaging my Ilk. I love
Let us all put an t•nd to this Moose tht· fourth division, M.'t'ond wing.

3.\tll or H<Jl~. Rt;WARD. you.
Availahk for nt·xt Sl.'hool yt.·ar: l fivt.·· stuH·. My glands at'hl' from it W ANTE!>: Rid~ to lJ of Conlrol Corps -I build lill'SC 
your very own "I()"

hedruom houses, nt.·ar ND, lease, Ryan Vcr Bcrkmocs I( Champaign) on Valcmint·s Moo!rtt.' Control unit~. No Moost· LOST Hlut•·hnotkd knil M:arf. II dl'(><"il. 234-2626. P.S. Axe Moost.· Control! W~ckmd. Callllill al 11115 Control unit h;u, c:vt·r madt· :.m t.·rror 
found nilJa<·kte. 41 ~I H TONY IIELDioN DRAWS GOOD 
in produc.:tion. Thi~ unit Is not PICASSO'!!!! 

llou!tl·~ JCJr rt·nt H 1-H.l ~<:houl )'t:'at. Daisy, Daisy f'unt.·tioning propt:'rly. Stl"P!\ mu!'>l ht· hmmJ.. a pair of n·d down mittt·ns on lakt·n.... No, I have said ll>o mudl al·
GcJ. omd., dose to c;.ampu~. ~t:Ture, God's only mistake. Jin, '"'omk for 'hutll<-. Call (SM<.) ~196. furni>h~d. l.alll.H-677') afil'r6 p.m. WI!O'S TilE LOON? !IMOC. BAN THE BAGPIPES n·ady. 
--------------r­


-
_______ .. -. 
Tuesday, February 10, 1981 -page 8

SJ>orts 


With 9-9 slate 
Terriers invade ACC tonight 
By CHRIS NEEDLES tain, (5.6 ppg) is Boston U.'s rather Rindge and Latin High School in Sports Writer small center. nearby Cambridge, Mass., is un­The Terriers play out of the animously regarded as the best Playing Boston University right af­watered-down East Coast Athletic schoolboy prospect in the country, ter UCLA is sort of like taking your Conference as members of the having led his team to two con­best girl to a buck movie the night secutive Massachusetts state cham­
ECAC North, along with teams like after the Senior Formal -there is Holy Cross, Maine, and New pionships. His stats are, in a word, bound to be a letdown. 
Hampshire. The ECAC used to con­shocking -for instance, in one A letdown is just what Digger tain the best teams in the East, but game he once blocked 22 shots; in Phelps' Fighting Irish will be trying 
another, he shot only 16 of 17 from
the formation Df conferences like to avoid tonight as they face the 9-9 
the floor, including 1 5 slam dunks.
the Big East and the Eastern EightTerriers at the ACC. Tipoff is Being from the Boston area, he is
have stripped the ECAC ofits major
scheduled for 8 p.m. naturally regarded as the next Bill
talent. Currently, Boston U. is in fifth 
Russell. In short, he is a potentialIt's not that Boston U. is that bad of place in their nint·-team conference program saver. 
a team. Last season, they compiled and are comingoffan upset road vic­Until last week, Boston U. was in an impressive 21-9 record and par­tory against Iona .:>n Friday night. 
the running in the race to enrollticipated in the NIT, losing in the But last week, Hoston U. suffered Ewing, who had, in the style ofDavefirst round to cross-town rival Bos­
perhaps the biggest setback in its 
Winfield, sent letters to five schools ton College, 95-74. But the Terriers 
obscure 80-year basketball history (Boston U., Boston College, Vil­lost their top two scorersfrom a year 
-without even having to take to lanova, North Carolina, and Geor­ago, forward Steve Wright and guard 
the floor. The Terriers' biggest battle getown) informing them that he was Glenn Consor, and do not have a 
ofthe year -one that, if they were interested in dealing only with starting player taller than 6-6 -so 
victorious, would no doubt have them. Unfortunately for the Terriers,they are hardly a UCLA. 
propelled them to national despite the lure of playing in his Boston U. is lead by a pair of sop­prominence -took place in their hometown, Ewing announced at a homores: 6-5 guard Tony Simms, own backyard. See BOSTON, page 7
who is averaging 1 5 points per game Pat Ewing, a 7-1 senior from but shooting less than 45 per cent from the floor, and 6-5 forward Ar­
turo Brown, who carries a 14.5 ppg average while leading his team in rebounds with just under eight per 
Hensley makes s-witch 
ball game. Guards Brett Brown, another sop­
to all-around player 
homore ( 5.4 ppg, four assists per 
game), andJohmty Ray Wall, a junior 
-··~­
(8.1 ppg), round out the Terriers' 
By ED KONRADY wards play on offense, the guards,three-guard offense. Senior Des-
Sports Writer defense. The players cannot cross mond Martin, the 6-6 Terrier cap-the half-court line. The only time the

Though only a freshman, Irish forward Tom Sluby bas figured 
heavily into Coacb Pbelps' recent stategy. (photo by Tim McKeogh) 
When the Notre Dame women's guards touch the ball is to bring it up basketball team is mentioned, talk the court to pass it to the forwards. centers on the new players. The talk Debbi played guard on her high is about the future of the team with school team, and as a result, did not

Shepardson reboundsfrom injury eight new players, seven of them shoot the ball. "Because Debbi freshman. didn't play offense in high school, she is not that offensive-minded,"
That last phrase always brings a

to shatter records, pace Irish 
says DiStanislao. "She isn't com­
smile to Debbi Hensley's face, for fortable with a ball in her hands, but

she is the sophmore who walked By MIKE MCMANUS college and then you must make a The injury to his shoulder just that's just inexperience."
onto Coach Mary DiStanislao's team Sports Writer living. You can't really make a living made him more determined to this year. This inexperience with five-man on your swimming ability, and I felt come back this year and have a fan­basketball lead to her decision not to 
"Initially, there was no question

Being a collegiate swimmer is not the education I could get from Notre tastic season. He worked out all sum­try out her freshman year. "My fresh­
about the fact that she was going to

the easiest or most rewarding ex­Dame would fflr outweigh a scholar­mer, setting a rigid schedule for man year I went to the initial 
make the team," says DiStanislao.

perience to be found in life. A swim­ship from a school that is weaker himself, "I got up at seven in the meeting and the first couple of 
"She is so enthusiastic, and works so

mer practices at least once a day, academically." morning and swam for two hours, af­practices, and I was really in­
hard, you could see progress in her

with practice consisting of, Mike's freshmen and sophomore ter which I would go out to the timidated," says Hensley. "So I 
playing."

well...swimming. The only way to seasons were both considerably ~each and run for a while. Then at played co-ree, interhall and 
become proficient at a stroke is to ~hortened, due to an injury to his about two in the afternoon I would Hensley, a 5-6 swingman from Ok­bookstore last year. Then I found out 
repeat it for lap afterboringlap, until shoulder. · lift weights for two hours and after lahoma City, Okla., played basketball the team was getting a new coach, 
all motion is perfected and coor­"I missed the second semester my that swim for another two and one­at Mount Saint Mary's High School. and that she emphasized defense. 
dinated so the body is propelled for­freshman year and the first semester half hours. After all that I was usually However, in Oklahoma the girls in Since I have been playing defense ward as fast as possible. And unless sophomore year because there was so tired that I would just go home to high school play six-man basketball. since fifth grade, I knew that this vou swim for one of the best teams something wrong with my rotator sleep." The major differences between. five­would be my only opportunity to m the country, such as Indiana or cuffand deltoid muscle. It was never The weightlifting he did has man and six-man basketball is that ill make the team." · 
Florida, notoriety is hard to come completely diagnosed, but the pain helped him twofold, because it has six-man you have three guards and Now that Hensley has made the 
by. There are very few heroes in from it was so severe that I just could three forwards, and they are on op­team, she has made some valuable 
swimming, so most swimmers must not swim," says Shepardson. See SHEPARDSON, page 6 posite sides of the court. The for-contributions. "Debbi has come in 

seule for self-satisfaction. 

So who would put up with all of the hassles of swimming for a little self-satisfaction? Mike Shepardson for one. Shepardson, a junior from Fort Lauderdale, Fla., loves th~ sport and has participat.cd in it for most of his life. 
He swam for Nova High School in Fort Lauderdale and was so good that he was named a prep all­American three times over bySwim­ming V:ur/d, the Sports Illustrated ofswimming magazines. 
He was ranked in the top five in the state in seven different events his junior and senior years which led to his being named the third best swim­mer in the state his senior year. Being the third best swimmer in Florida is roughly comparable to being the third best high school football player in Ohio, so college recruiters began offering scholar­
ships to Shepardson. 

"Florida, Florida State and Arizona were some of the schools that of­fered me scholarships," he says, "but I came to Notre Dame because I feel 
· you have to set your priorities since you can only swim for four years in 
and saved the day in a couple of dif­






