With dreams ofa future as an Irish cheerleader, tyke is already practicing tbe arduous routines at the Hofstra basketball game. (Photo byjohn Macor) 
-
• .Eagles pageB
• 
1 
I 
• 
• MONDAY,JANllARY 19, 1981 
U.S., Iran come to terms on hostages' release 
WASHINGTON (AP) The 
fcrence tody, Monday, jan. 19, United States and Iran, in accord on 1981." every point but still working on final 
A White House official said Sun­translations, stood at the brink of day evening that the signatures
agreement yesterday for the release awaited oly a final translation of theof 52 American hostages, probably terms into three languages -English,before President Carter leaves office 
frcnl·h for the Algerian Inter­Tuesday. 
mediaries, and Farsi, the language ofIt "wa.o; believed that thc.· freed 
Iran.
Americans would be flown to Al­The Pars report, dated early Mon­giers, and from there on to West day Tehran time, was ret:clved lateGermany, where they would spend a yesterday Nkosia, Cyprus. The"decompression" period of a week Iranian media said Nabavi would or so at a U.S. military hospital. 
conduct a news conference about 3
Six Algerian doctors were illrcady p.m. Tehran time (6:30 a.m. EST)
In the Iranian capital to examine the 
Monday.
hostages and certify their condition 
Nabavi indicated in his remarksbefore their release. But there was that the agreemc.·nt had not yet been 
no word on whether the doctors had 
formally signc.·d and the documents seen the hostages, or even on the entrusted to the Algerians, as ha.~
whereabouts ofthe 52. 
been planned.
A man who identified himself as Nabavi had similarly anmmnl·ed a one of the doctors told7'be As­"final agreement" several hours ear­
scociated Press ir. a telephone inter­
lier, but said ar that time thatview, "I think that we can leave "several wholly trivial points"before Monday night, We shall go . remained unresolved Uls later an­back by special airplane ... We k-ave nounccmt·nt apparently was madeTehran with the hostages, and I after Iran bl·ame satistlcd that thosedon't know if we shall go to Algiers points had bc.·cn settled. 
or West Germany." 
In Its report ofNabavi's announce­ment, the Iranian news agency Pars 'I think that we can said, "The U.S. government has final­ly acceptt.•d all the ter~s set by the government of the Islamic Republic 
leave before 
of Iran for the release of the American hostages. The minister said that the details ofthe agreement 

Monday night.'
will be disclosed In a press con-
VOL. XV, NO. "'2 

Key talks on rip-offs 
Tbe exploitation of consumers through tbe advertising media is a growing problem, according to Wilson Bryan Key, wbo bas served as ajournalism professorat several major unltJer"silles In tbe U.S. and Canada. Key bas studied tbe problem for over ten years and is president of a media research group. Obsc:rver staff reporter DavidSarpbie spoke wttb Key when be lectured at ND in December. 
Q: Dr. Key, what is subliminal seduc·tton, and bow widespread is 
it? 
A: 
Ba.o;lcally, it's a technique of the advertising agencies to sell products by manipulating the unconscious mind of the consumer. How widespread, you ask? It's definitely a multibillion dollar Industry. I've been examining advertisements since the early 70s, and I've yet to find a national ad that didn't employ the technique. 

Q: How does It work? 

A: 
I've discovered two distinct ideas that these ads seem to play upon. One, as you might have guessed, is sex. If you look closely at the ice cubes in many alcohol ad­vertisements, you'll sec that they arc not ordinary lee: cubes. In fact, they aren't icc cubes at all. They arc pieces of plastic. Some are designed to spell out the word 'sex'. Others get a bit more graphic and portray the sex organs. These techniques are by no means limited to booze ad­vertisements. No, I've found phallic symbols in sul·h seemingly innocent ads as thost· for a margarine com­pany. Strange, isn't it? 


The other major idea used in many of the ads is that of the death wish. I've found skulls in those same Ice cubes used in booze ads. Grotesque faces of monsters appear quite fl'l·qucntly, a.o; well. In fact, I've found many images related to self destruction and death. 
Q: /lou• does that sell pmducts? 
A: Ever sinl'e I 'i5H and the work of Thomas Hobbes, philosophers have pomkrnl the n·a.o;ons behind man's self destnKtivc tendencies. Such hrilliant men as Nietzsche, Freud, and Fromm have all delved into this area, and they haven't hccn able to find the answer. I don't un­derstand it, either. But I do know that companies have spent millions of dollars on ads that play on this death wish idea. 
Q: Hasn't Congress been able to do anything in terms oflegislation in this urea? 
A: Are you kidding? Congress is so swayed by spedal interest groups that legislation is very difficult. Of courst·, Big Business is probably the dominant force among those special interest groups. Their power ex­tends into other areas, as well. For example, sc:veral years ago the United Nations did a study on this media exploitation. Their condu­

sion was that this type ofmedia must you andyourstudies? recognize these techniques and be prohibited. Not one word of that realize that they exiSt, the ads can't study appeared in a U.S. newspaper, A: The research corporation of be a.o; harmful. However, these ads not even in the New York 1'imes. which I'm currently president, are very dangerous to the uni­Belgium is the only country that has Media Probe, ha.o; been studying nformed person who allows it to definitive laws concerning this these advertisements for quite real·h his subconscious. That's why I media exploitation. awhile. We know the problem ex­give over 90 lectures each year. The: ists. Our job now must be w educate more people we can reach, the more 
Q: What does the future bold for the consumers. If people can good we can do. 
Stereo stolen 

Sorinitesfallprey to another robbery 
ay LAURA LARIMORE  Paul Korzenecki, one of the theft  Malloy concurred, stating that to  
Sentor Staff Reporter  victims, noted that record albums  the best of his knowledge the front  
and a hat were left in his room. "I  doors remained locked throughout  
Stereo equipment valued at over  don't know whose they are," he said.  the break. "But you know as well as I  
SHSO was reported stolen from two  "The door was locked when I came  do that a person can get into any  

Vice President W'lllter F. Mondalc: 
said earlier yesterday the remaining 
differencc.·s were "not substantial," 
involving the precise amount of 
frozen assets to he returned to Iran, 
and a problem nmcernlng court 
jurisdiction ofcertain daims. 
A U.S. offidal said the second problem related to arrangements for transferring U.S. court daims against Iran to an International arbitration panel. 
Tehran radio said Nahavi wa.~ asked whether hc:: now expe'-·tcd tht· hostages to be rclea.~cd In the next few days. 
"Yes, of courst•," he rt·portt·dly replied. "On the hasis of the agrt·c::· mcnt rcal·hc.·d after tht· statcrnt·nt ha.~ been signc.·d by hoth sidt·~ and the Algerian governnll'nt has made It public and the a.~sets whkh It has 
rooms in Sorin Hall during the recent semester break, despite what hall officials termed "an excellent job by Security." The items were dis­covered missing when residents returned on Monday, jan. 12. 
Fr. David Porterfield, rector of 
Sorin, appeared baffled by the inci­
dent. "Security noted that doors 
locked on say, Monday, would then 
be open on Wednesday," he said. 
In addition to Porterfield and as­sistant rector Fr. Edward Malloy, part ofa high school basketball team stayed in the hall over the vacation. According to Porterfield, seven team members, their coach, and a priest were allowed to use student rooms for several days, without the students' prior knowledge. 
"The priest was a good friend of mine," Porterfield remarked. "The students wished they had been con­sulted, but they probably wouldn't have cared if nothing had been mis­sing." The rooms burglarized were among those: occupied by team members. 
back Monday afternoon. They cut the cords and the plug from my receiver and turntable, but left the speakers and the reel-to-reel." 
Two speakers and a turntable dis­appeared from the room of Mark Skorcz, down the hall. "They left the re~iver and another turntable, and took the wires," Skorcz said. He noted that his door was also locked when he returned Monday evening. 
Blankets reported stolen from neighboring rooms may have been used to conceal the equipment, resi­dents surmised. Nothing else has been repOrted missing. 
Porterfield said that he assumed full responsibillty for his guests. He stated that he felt it unlikely that the team could have been responsible for the theft, but said it was being in­vestigated. "I will see that the stu­dents are reimbursed," he promised. 
"I never saw anyone out of the ordinary," he said. "Construction workers were repairing some showers and were in and out but I didn't see anyone else." 

been agreed to deposit In an aCl'OUlll
dorm on the campus if he wants to 
with the l'entral hank of a third
badly enough," he remarked. 
country have bet•n so deposltt·d the
Security is continuing its investiga­
hostages will .bt· rdea.~c-d lrn­
tion. 
mt•diatcly." 


Masked gunman rapes ND student 
A female Notre Dame student wa.~ raped at gunpoint late Friday 
afternoon ncar the cast perimeter oftheJake Kline ba.~ehall ticld in an 
incident that ND security surmise is related to a similar assualt la.~t 
Thursday. 
According to the county sheriffs office, the student was walking 
home alone to her apartment when she was confronted by a black man 
wearing an orange ski mask, light-blue bell-bottom trousers, a blue 
nylon jacket and carrying a green blanket. He: dragged her into a 
nearby wooded area at pistol point and then raped hct. 
"!be victim was treated at Saint joseph's Hospital and relca.~ed a few 
hours later. 
NO security, working in conjunction with the county sheriffs 
office, theorizes that the rapist is the same person who was reponsiblc 
for an incident Thursday in the same area when a lone: female student 
was harrassed at gunpoint while cross country skiing. 
• •.& 
.,. ·­


NewsBrie_b 
by The Observer and The Associated Press 
Dolls, dope andpornare courses ofstudy at various colleges and universities around the U.S. At Arizona State U., the Health Sciences department is offering "Marijuana and Man," a course which examines the history of the drug and its sociological and psyc­
hological impact. The purpose of the course, according to instructor "Quick! Someone tell me who was the mother ofLee B. Croft, is to provide students with the facts needed to make a 
Oedipus? You know, the one he married?"
"sound, intelligent judgment" about marijuana use. At MacAlester "Does anyone know what was the rhyme schemeCollege in St. Paul, Minn., a number of female professors and ad­
Shakespeare made famous?"
ministrators are objecting to a psychology class that will focus on "What was the major theme ofthe Romantic poets?" 
pornography, because they believe that pornography is degrading to Panic!! 
women. And at Yale University, art history major Ella King Torrey is These are just some of the questions senior Englishwriting her final thesis on the phenomenal success of the Barbie Doll majors will be mumbling back and forth for the nextand the changes the doll has undergone since her introduction in two weeks until their comprehensive exams are over.
1959. -Collegiate Headlines • 

This panic is not unique to English majors, for within the next couple months, all departments at Saint Mary's PANIC!! will be conducting comprehensive exams that seniors What is it like to study for one of these exams? Well, are required to pass or face the consequences (as yet there are various S};Stems that have been used over the
Adult bookstores and movie theaters in Atlanta have unknown). years. One method is to not study at all and trust toagreed to close in return for dismissal of charges against their Comps is an almost dirty word on campus. We heard memory when exam time comes. Students who have

employees, and a prosecutor hailed the bargain as proof that "law rumours about them during our freshmen year. When tried this method were removed from the exam by am·
enforcement now has the upper hand" against pornography. '"If you we declared our majors in sophomore year they bulance, having fallen comatose after reading the first
need a dirty book, you'll have to leave Atlanta to get it," said Glenn warned us about them, but then, it was still too far away essay question. Another method, used primarily byZell, an attorney for the stores. Zell said owners ~fat least 16 adult to worry about. Last year we watched in horror as our departmental throats, is to begin studying secondbookstores agreed Friday to close their doors on condition that anti­senior friends crammed and cried until the exams were semester junior year straight through the summer, skip­

pornography crusader Fulton Co.unty Solicitor General Hinson over. Then it was real, and anyone who was unwise ping Christmas in Florida to finish studying. These stu­
McAuliffe dismiss all charges pending against their employees. Assis­enough not to save their notes for every class during dents are usually pried from the desks at the end of thetant Solicitor GeneraLLeonard Rhodes said that would leave one adult their four years probably spent the summer copying exam screaming,"But I've only filled ten blue books!"

bookstore, three adult theaters and one peep-show still operating in over notebooks. 

There really isn't any proven way to insure the pas­
Atlanta. "We're tired of fighting. We're getting out of here," one To most people at NO, sing of these exams. In the
bookstore employee said. Zell blamed "inflation" for the bookstore 
(and probably the yet uni­
end it will all be up to theclients' decision to move out of Fulton County rather than continue 
formed freshshmen at SMC) 
judgement ofone's teachers,the battle against McAuliffe. He said "hassles with the police, fees for 
the comprehensives are an 
as they read the blue bookslawyers," and higher rents had made "the marginal profits for pornog­
unknown phenomenon. 
and listen to the presenta­raphy unbelievably low." -AP Comprehensive exams are 

tions, with the option to yell, an archaic academic torture 
"That stinks!" at the student created to give seniors their 
of their choice. Just the final nervous breakdown 
realization that she will have SaudiArabiawill renewtemporary crude oil supp­
during their academic 

to face all her profs at once ly contracts with countries whose fuel supplies have been affected by 
lifetime. Depending on the 

and display what she reallythe Iran-Iraq war, excludfng Japan, for the first quarter of 1981, the 
department, the com­

knows, (or doesn't know),Middle East Economic Suroey reported yesterday. In a report quoting 
prehensives can take the 

has been know to send even unidentified "reliable sources," the weekly newsletter said Japan, 
form of an exam, research 
the most coherent and intel­previously the largest recipient at 140,000 barrels a day, was excluded 
paper or year-long project. 

ligent students into fits and because of reports of irregularities in oil pricing to customers. The 
As the weeks dwindle down 

spasms. war relief contracts, involving a total of atiout 600,000 barrels daily, . 
to the final moment of 

This is really just a war­were concluded for the last quarter of 1980 with countries facing 
presentation, panic sets in. 
ning to the rest of the SMC­'shortages because of the war which erupted Sept. 22. Other cus­
The real purpose of the 

ND world, that if you tomers are France, Italy, Brazil, Greece, Spain, Turkey, Yugoslavia, In­
exams, of course, is to pull 

happen to come across dia, Pakistan, Morocco and Somalia. -AP together four years of 
some poor bleary-eyed academic endeavor and knowledge and to try and make 
senior wandering around in a daze during the next few some sense ofit all. Being a senior English major, I have weeks, be kind to her--she's probably trying to warned my roommate not to talk to me as I try to cram 
memorize, "Wban that Aprille in the shore soute/Tbe 
900 years of literature into my head, since all I'll drought ofMarcbe bath pierced to the route.... " Reagan's four-day, $11 million inaugural party kicked off this weekend 
From bluegrass to black-tie ballet Ronald 

probably be able to .say is "To be or not to be..." with a show from the Mormon Tabernacle Choir and the biggest 
(wishing that I could not be, until its all over.) I plan to fireworks display in the history ofthe nation's capital. Reagan and his 
be buried under notebooks and textbooks for two wife, Nancy and the Vice-President elect George Bush and Mrs. Bush 
weeks, and I've told all my friends that I will be un­were scheduled to brace 20-degree weather for the official half-hour 
Observer Notes----­
available for the usual senior fun for awhile. (If anyone 

tells you that senior year is all fun and games, she is not The President Inaugural Committee started out with a budget ofabout 
opening ceremony just after dark on the Lincoln Memorial grounds. 

from Saint Mary's.) S7 million, but it has mushroomed to close to $11 million. Four years 
Seniors from the other departments will probably 

Have you witnessed a crime which should be ago, Jimmy Carter's inaugural cost 55 million. The entire show is 
want to deny this statement, but it has been rumoured eported? Do you have newsworthy information being financed by private donations, including contributions by cor­
that the English comps are the worst ones at the college. hich might turn into an important article? Is porations who can take the cost off their taxes. The incoming First 
(A statement that does not make me feel any better.) there something we should be covering? Ifso, call Family attended three concerts at the Kennedy Center featuring a 
Whether true or not, the English exams would definite-The Observer news department and let us know. we long list of opera, ballet and orchestra stars, and also attended two 
ly be in the running. Picture this: some 20 students with 

elcome any and all contributions from our
bloodshot eyes huddling over piles of blue books as they write for 90 minutes on the use ofthe color blue in eaders -call283-74 71' 8661' or 1715, 24 hours a imagery from Chaucer to Fitzgerald. And there are four ay, Sunday through Thursday. All sources are candlelight dinners, priced at Sl00 per plate. -AP 
such questions to be answered in a two.~d;a~y~p:.er~i:o:d~.___!::;u;;;a;;;ra;;;n;;;t;e;e;d;;c:o:n:f:id:e;n=ti:a:li:ty:::.====;;;;;;:;;~
Browsers can no longer find a copy ofJonathan Swift's "Gulliver's Travels" among the frozen foods at the Hall Meat & Poultry butcher shop in Port Huron, Mich. The book was one of640 

~The-Obs.et.Y-er_ Design Editor ............................. Mike Monk Design Assistant.................. Monica Gugle News Editor............................. Pam Degnan Features Layout.................... MoUy Woulfe Sports Copy Editor ......... Michael Onman Systems Control ................... Bruce Oakle.t Pbotograpber ............................ )ohn Macor Guest Appearances ............. )ohn McGrath Paul Mullaney, Mark Rust Ryan Ver Berkmoes  
The Observer (USPS 598 920) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is publishedby the students of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $20 per year ($1 0 per semester) by writing The Observer. P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame. Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved.  

NSHP TUTORING 
being stored in the market's freezer in an attempt to salvage them. 
They were soaked over Christmas when a water pipe burst at a public 

Neighborhood Study Help
library branch. St. Clair County Library Director Harry Wu said put­
ting meat in a freezer for a ong time will dry it out, adding the same 

Program Sign-ups Tues.Jan. 20 and 
thing applies to books. So, in they went -right along with the lamb 
chops and ham. Owner Howard Hall said the books were drying out 

Wed. Jan. 21 During Dinner in the 
nicely until a meat inspector came along and dampened the process. 
The inspector ordered the volumes moved,. saying books, money and 


Dining Halls. 
mail all are sources of bacteria. And, Hall said, the statedid not want anything to contaminate the meat. Librarians say the books are drying out now in another freezer -but no one is saying where Gulliver 

Openings Include: 
traveled. -AP 

Mon. & Wed. Twes. & Thurs. 
1_2 Kennedy 1:30-2:30 St.John's
The recent cold spell that froze water pipes and 
stopped many automobiles in the East had an equally chilling effect on 

4 34Jefferson
3
many major insurance companies based in the Hartford, Conn. area. 

McKinley 34 Martin Luther 
Aetna Life and Casualty, Allstate Insurance, Travelers Insurance and 
4-5Madison 
The Hartford Insurance Group all report that the number of claims 

4:30-5:30 South East Side :30-5~tethodist
from homeowner and automobile policy holders jumped dramatically 
last month, and all blame the recent subnormal temperatures. 

5:30-6:30 LaSalle Fillmore 4:30-5:30 LaCasa 
Weather-related claims in Connecticut, New Jersey, New York and 

6-7 Clay -7 Boys Club . 
Pennsylvania resulted in a S30 million loss to insurance companies in 
6-7 N .E. Side. 
a five-day period alone last month, the Insurance Group reported. ­
AP 

OffCampus Students Sign up at Student Activities Office -First Floor LaFortune
Cloudyand mild todaywith a 3o percent chance of 

Saint Mary's Students Sign Up by Calling
rain. High in the mid to upper 30s. Cloudy with achance ofrain chang­
ing to snow tonight. Low in the mid to upper 20s. Light snow expected 

Joan Driscoll at4-1-5121 orJoe Witchger 
tomorrow. High in the low 30s. -AP 


at 1652 or1714. 
-
/ 


Monday,January 19, 1981 -page 3 
Notre Dame 

procedures. 
the time and place for the ,.............na ofInterviews, causing an among many seniors. Under changes, scheduling begins on at noon In the LaFortune nt Center, Instead of Monday morning"~ In the Administration 
Building. 
Perceiving this new procedure as a tremendous Inconvenience, stu· dents have reacted negatively. Some must mi!IS their required classes on Tuesday morning"~. In the past, 
waiting lines have begun to form 
several hours prior to the opening of 
the placement offices. 
"This is absurd," remarked one 
outraged senior. "They didn't con· 
suit us once about our feelings." 
The changes were necessitated by 
Increased security precautions In 
the Administration Building. The 
hazard offire In the old building and 
the administration's reluctance to 
keep the building unlocked over 
weekends were Instrumental In the decision. 
According to Placement Director Richard Willemln, the admlnlstra· tlon also took Into consideration the needs ofthe seniors. 
"We were reaUy choosing be· tween the lesser oftwo evils," he ex· pl:L:ted. "We felt that there were fewer classes to be missed on Tues­days than on Mondays." 
Wlllemln said the new hours would also alleviate the problems of early morning waiting lines which cost many seniors their sleep. "The previous arrangements were almost Inhuman," he observed. "I think the new hours wlll cause much le!IS In· convenience." 
Wlllemln hesitated to say if the 

The Irish cheerleaders do their part in the success of the Notre Dame basketball team. (Photo byjohn Macor) 




All Clubs and OrganiLations: 



Final applications for 

STUDENT ACTIVITIES FUNDS are nowbeing taken. Please fill out·application in the ::Jflden.,t Activities office, 
1st Floor LaFortune...__ _____.., DEADLINE Monday', January 26,5:oo pm. 
~---LEARN TO FLY----~ 
Earn your private pilots license 
this semester at Michiana Regional Airport in Piper Aircraft 
For details call Bob Mihlbaugh at 8171 


DORM LIFE CRAMPING YOUR STYLE? 

I j 
I 
A 
~ 




~ -------~--~----­
Monday, January 19, 1981 -page 4
The Observer 

NO participation 
College Bowl sponsors competitions 


By ANNJANE DREGALLA 
StaffReporter 
Each year as the holiday season closes, bowl season begins. Our community is in the middle of its own bowl--College Bowl. 
College Bowl, "the varsity sport of the mind", is a question and answer game of quick recall played on hundreds ofcampuses across the na­

Meandering through the recently opened SniteMuseum, these stu­dents admire some of art's more recent products. (Photo by john Macor) 

Advancement Does Not Require An Advanced-Degree 
You can spend another two to three years 1n graduate school or you can turn four years ofliberal arts education into a practical, challenging and rewarding career in just three months-as an Employee Benefit Specialist. 
Benefits today amount from 30 to 35 percent of wages and salaries. Recent pension legislation has created even more demand for trained specialists. As an Employee Benefit Specialist you 'II be called upon to excercise your own judgement, initiative and intelligence in a challenging, professional environment with progressive responsibility. 
The Institute for Employee Benefits Training is the first and most prestigious school in the United States, training Employee Benefits and Pension Specialists. This is a dynamic, growing career field in which advancement does not require an advanced degree. Our graduates are in demand by law firms, pension consulting firms, insurance companies, banks, and personnel and benefits departments of corporations. The Institute's Placement Service will place you too. If not, you will be eligible for a substantial tuition refund. 
Furthermore, you will earn graduate credit towards a Master of Arts in Legal Studies through Antioch School of Law for all course work completed at The Institute. 
If you're a senior of high academic standing and looking for a meaningful career, contact your Placement Office for our catalog and arrange to have an interview with our repre· sentative. 
We will visit your campus on: 
WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 28, 1981 
The 
Institute 235 South 17th Street for 
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19103 (215) 732-6600
Employee 
Benefits 
Training 
(Operated by Para-Legal, Inc.) 
Approved by The American Bar Association 
Programs Earn Full Credit Toward M.A. in Legal Studies 
through Antioch School of Law. 


sions Scholarships for qualified applicants .• These scholarships Contact pay full tuition. lab and incidental fees. books, plus $100 a month (tax free) during the school year. Upon completion of Air Force ROTC and bac­Capt. Gottrich calaureate degree requirements. you'll be commissioned as an Air Force second lieutenant. When accepted to medical school. additional assistance for medical
-(283-6635) 

school expenses is guaranteed with an Armed Forces Health Pro­

For More Information 

Gateway too great way of life. 

fessions Scholarship. Get together with an Air Force ROTC representative and discuss these two programs. It may be the most import­ant talk you've ever had about your future. 
tion. Competitions are categorized as intramural, intercollegiate and regional championship tournaments guided by the College Bowl Co., Inc. 
The intramural level is open to al­most anyone. The game is played be­tween two teams of four players each to score points by answering toss-up and bonus questions. 
Junior Parents Weekend set 
Junior Parents Weekend is scheduled for Feb. 6-8. Notice and irformation on the event was sent to juniors' parents prior to Thanksgivi­ing break Parents who have received their packets and plan to attend should return the forms with pay­ment as soon as possible. 
Junior!; whose parents have not received packets can pick up the forms in the Student Activities Office, Lafortune. All ticket applica­tions should be placed immediately to guarantee reservations. 

ATTENTIONJUNIOR CLASS 
Seating for President's Dinner 
Junior Parent's Weekend 
LaFortune Main Lounge· 
Thurs., Jan. 22, 7-10 p.m. 
Fri., Jan. 23,6-9 p.m. 
1 
For Se ing Arrangements the Following In­forma on Is Necessary: 
1)Ea.. person may bring 3 ID's total (including his own) 
2) Parents' full names and home addresses wlll be required for each student ID. 
3) Number ofpeople attending per family. 
For those wishing to sit together involving more than one table, there must be one representative per table to make seating arrangements. 
We wlll not sign up anyone who does not have the above in· formation or who has not returned reservations for the Presi­dent's Dinner. 
Maximum Seating PerTable: 9 


ATTENTION 
PREMED MAJORS 

NEED FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE? 

The Air Force needs doctors. So, we may help finance your college education with an Air Force ROTC scholarship. We have three and two-year AFROTC PreHealth Profes­
The varsity tournament team is then made up of up_to eight players, usually four from the winning team on campus and up to four chosen from an all-star team of other campus competitors. This varsity 

team then competes on the intercol­
legiate and tournament level at 
regional competition. 

This year, intramural winners will 
travel to Illinois State, Feb. 6-7, for 
competition with 12 other schools 
in the region. This region includes 
Ohio, Illinois and Indiana. 
In the spring, all regional cham­pions and any other team who has won three games in a row on radio or television (special attraction games) are invited to compete for the College Bowl National Cham-

The itinerary for the weekend is as follows: Thursday, Fev. 5: Registration -Lafortune 7-10 p.m. 
Friday, Feb. 6: Registration -Lafortune 9:30 a.m.-8:30p.m.; Cock­tail Dance, ACC 9 pm. 
Saturday, Feb. 7: Registration -Lafortune 7:30 a.m.-12 p.m.; Col­legiate Workshops 9:30am.; Junior Class Mass 6:30 p.m.; President's Dinner, ACC 8 p.m.; Receptions in Dormitories 10:30 p.m. 
See PARENTS, page 6 
pionship. 
The United States national crown winner than completes in the Col­lege Bowl World Championship. 
Notre D~me held its on-campus tournament in the two week period prior to break. The on-campus win­ning team includes Scott Jacobs, An­nette Lang, and Michael Kristo with Edward Bylina as team captain. This team has earned the right to com­pete against a team of all-stars chosen from among the other com­petitors to determine who will com­prise the tournment team attending the regionals. 
· Notre Dame, after retiring from College Bowl Competition for a few years, once more entered the com­petition three years ago. Notre Dame reached the national level all three years with the 16 best players in the country, an objective Notre Dame College Bowl coordinator Dr. Lombardo ofthe CCE hopes to attain 
once again this year. 
Lisa Schulte, the Saint Mary's coor­dinator is working under Mary Anne O'Donnell who has been appointed the Regional Coordinator for Ohio, Indiana and Illinois. Saint Mary's has nine intramural teams vying for the chance to compete on the regional and hopefully national level. This on-campus competition begun Wednesday evening, will continue through the week-end and conclude Sunday,January 24. 
English Dept. sponsors 


Chaplinfilms 
The English Department is sponsoring a Charlie Chaplin fdm festival beginning Tuesday, Jan. 20, and continu.ing on consecutive Tuesdays through April 28. Each film will shown at 9 p.m. in the An­nenberg Auditorium of the Snite Museum ofArt. 
The series begins with Chaplin's silent films (1914-1936) in which he develops his beloved "Tramp". OnJan. 20 the Keystone shorts such as Caught in a Cabaret and The 
Property Man will be projected. 

More of Chaplin's classic shorts will 
be shown onJan. 27. 
Such classics as Tbe Gold Rush, City Lights, Modem Times, and Monsieur Verdouxz are also scheduled. The festival will con­clude with some of Chaplin's last fllms (1952-1957),Ltmeltgbt andA 
King in New York. 
The films are open to the general public. The charge for each is n. Tickets for all fourteen films can be purchased for $1 0 from Anne Brown at 2108. 
The Observer 




News Dept. 
Needs Day Editors Sun. -Thurs. 
12:30­
4:30pm A Paid Pos4tion




ICa:am,:661 




O
n Christmas Eve, I listened patiently as the young man told me ofmaking love to the young woman he was going steady with; ofhow beautiful it was, an~ ofhow close it made them feel; and ofhow neither ofthem, afterwards, felt any sense ofguilt orshame. Obviously, as he explained it, for both ofthem, this was really it: a legitimate passion that was the eat's pajamas. Mar­riage was a formality that could be added later; but for now: wow, Father, they had experienced passion, and pronounced it good. I felt as though I were expected to applaud. 
It was Christmas Eve, and Ididn't feel like arguing; I felt sure enough ofFaith that I didn't need to argue. I was suddenly happy enough to laugh, because I knew I wasn't going to try to prove anything to anybody. "It's obvious," I said, "that being deeply Catholic isn't everyone's cup oftea. You have to be alittle nuts, to be a good, serious-minded Catholic. You have to be slightly absurd to accept literally the teach­ings of the Church." 
"Our love," he said very solemnly, "is cenalnly sanctified by holiness as though God had breathed on our heans." 
Maybe, I thought, God had breathed on your beans, or maybe you have only breathed deeply on one another. I wasn't tempted to judge whether their relation­ship was wholesome. "You'll pardon me 
Monday,January 19, 1981 -page 5


Features 
'Twas the Night 
Letters To A

Before Christmas 

for saying this," I said, "but your arrange­
ment doesn't strike me as being particular­
ly Christian." 

"The love that we have," he said, "and 
the way_ we express it, makes us feel that 
we are very close to Christ." 
It was Christmas Eve. I could smell fir 
trees, and I was waiting to hear sleigh bells 
ringing in the midnight sky. "You don't 
have to defend yourself," I said. "I'm not 
accusing you ofsln." I'm never com­
fonable posing as a travel agent selling 
tickets for a guilt trip. 

"In Bethlehem, on a night like this," I 
said, "angels were heard singing in the 
heavens above a manger. In the Middle 
Ages, It was believed that creatures, on 
Christmas Eve, fell on their knees at the 
stroke ofmidnight, and that ghosts and 
demons were kept chained in their 
prisons, unable to stir during the days of 
Christmas." 

He wanted to tell me how much in love he was. I wanted to tell him how much in love he might be. 
"Catholics, ofcourse, bellevemore of these pious legends than anyone else," I said. "It is embarrassing, Ifyou are sophis­ticated, to notice the beliefs that Catholics take seriously." 
"My grandmother" he said, "takes religion very seriously." 
"Grandmothers,"! said, "are an endan­gered species. When the last believing grandmother has gone to heaven, the world will be a more practical place In which to be a Catholic." 
He said: "It's nice, even when it isn't Christmas, to believe thatJesus is Son, and Mary is His virgin mother." 
"Ifyou believe that," I said, "the rest ofit is easy. I suppose you also believe in Easter?" 
"I thought to be a Catholic," he said, "that you had to believe in Easter." 
"You've really put it all together," I said. "You and I believe in incredible things.· We're regular chips offour old grandmot­hers." We laughed as we imagined our­selves saying rosaries and lighting holy candles, as grandmothers are reputed to do. 
He said: "You see, I am Christian after 
all." 
"Words reflect faith," I said. "Actions 
reflect faith even more honestly than 
words do." 
"I've been very honest in loving a 
woman," he said. "I want to be with herfor 
the rest of my life. Am I being dishonest in 
sincerely believing that we've got a good 
thing going for us?" 
"I think that the Church has more in mind for you than that you should have a ·good thing going for you," I said. "Of course, what the Church has in mind may 

not be your cup oftea" "The Church undoubtedly has In mind that we should be married," he said. 
"At Christmas, when you think ofGod's loving the world, and all that," I said, "the most ordinary love gets caught up on God's love. Married love, the Church thinks, should reflect Christ's love when He laid down His life for the Church, His 
bride." 
"As poetry," he said, "it's very nice." 
"It's more than a metaphor," I said. "It's a pattern for Christian husbands. "Sexual love especially represents the way God loves the world as a Bridegroom. That is why sexual love amon~ Christians is an in­timacy properly expressed between hus­band and wife." 
"Give me hell for sleeping with a girl," he said, "though I don't know why you should want to. But don't, in the name of faith, expect me to bank my lustiness in a mystical fog." 
"How silly, ofme, ofcourse, I'm being mystical," I said. "What a fool you must think me for supposing that your sex life has anything to do with the birthday or death ofthe Son ofGod" 
I knew it wouldn't be his cupoftea. Uke everybody else, he only wanted the com­fon ofChristmas, without making a com­mitment to the Cross or the Crib. 
-
No playing hooky in life 
I
fUfe were acourse, would any ofus take It? 
Imagine finding this course description in an Arts and Letters catalogue: 
Life 101 Cn!dit: Variable 
1 2SMTWTFSI2 No Pren!quistte 
Variable length, variable credit course, divided into tbr'f!e majorsections: Youth, Adolescence, and Adulthood, with primaryemphasison the latter. Covers all ar'f!as ofhuman experience, including sicknessandhealth, love andhate, wealth and poverty in a series ofunpn!dictable experiences. Many unannounced quizzes and tests, with a cumulativefinal, also unannounced. 
God is the Prof, naturally, determining how long the class lasts, when we have to 
~ 
I
1: 
"' ! I ) 

) 
( ( 
stay after, when tests are due, and most im­ponantly, whether we pass or not. 
Life would have some advantages over a regular class. We wouldn't have to worry about registration because our parents had already taken care ofthat. No lines for com­putercards, no Form 50's to fill out, no add ordrop slips. We'd just show up on the ftrst day. 

J 
The Class could be frightening at first, 
with no syllabus, and with the Professor 
not really explaining what He expected of 
us. And unless we had already heard about 
the Class from someone else (which is 
doubtful), it's a wonder that we wouldn't . all run to the Divine Registrar and dropLife after the first day. But then again, being impressionable freshmen, we'd decide to stick it out. 
Life could be taken many ways. Most of 
us might take it pass/fall, although some 
would just as soon audit it. But evenLife 
would have it's holy roller grace-throats, 
wrecking the salvation curve for the rest of 
us. 
And some, ofcourse, would want to handle Life on their own, as an independ­ent study.·Notcontent to work at everyone else's pace, they would go offand study on their own. Alben Camus and Ayatollah Khomeini are obvious examples. 

What Ifthe great Professor would call on us and we would be asleep? Or Ifwe had blown off Class on the day He took atten­dance? Or even worse, what Ifwe walked Into Class and discovered we'd forgotten to do the day's assignment? Life would also have additional expenses at mid­semester which we hadn't counted on. There would be plentyoftime to droplife, but where can we transer to?Life doesn't have any USC's. 
Many ofus are stuck In classes we aren't too wild about. In Life, some are destined to be bunched together and sleep through Class like it's an eternal Emil. Others might sit back and watch Life flash by In an unending version ofAn Trads, knowing Life is pass/fail and that they can work hard early and take It easy when the final comes. 
A third group ofstudents would be in a perpetual Accounting class, analyzing, graphing, and evaluatinganything they can debit and credit, looking at their final as one big CPA exam in the sky. 
Still others might prefer to talk their way though Life as in a non-stop seminar Class, an all-encompassing core Course. They could BS their way out ofevery test, and would probably end up as salesmen, sponswriters, or U.S. Presidents. 
And there would be those caught up in a lifelong philosophy course. Athough no better offthan anyone else, these people would at least have a sense ofsecurity in that they can rationalize where thev are (but in relation to what?) · 
When God graded our finals, we'd find 
out our fates. Ifwe passedLife, we'd go to 
heaven (orEternal Life 102 ). Borderline 
cases would be sent to purgatory, a kind of 
God-given summer school. If we failed It 
would be back to Life again, but with dif­
ferent classmates, a different syllabus, and a 
different final. 
I wonder IfGod accepts extra credit... 
Bill Marquard 
BillMarquard ts an Observer 
sports wrltwr. 

' 
Ihe~==================== 


~4[)c:t~~=====================M=o=nd=~='J=an=u=ary==19=,1=9=81===pa=ge==6

Campus 
•6:30 
p.m -alpha phi omega, rm 2-d, lafortune. 

•7 
p.m. -women's basketball: saint mary's vs. taylor, aaf. 

•7:30 
p.m. -ftlm: north by northwest, annenberg aud., Sl admission. 

•8 
p.m. -men's basketball: nd vs. fordham, ace. 


. . .Parents 
Continuedfrom page 4 
Sunday, Feb. 8: Closing Breakfast -ACC 9:30a.m.. 
The opening event, the Cocktail Dance, will prove to be one of the weekend's hightlights. It will be held at the ACC and attended by parents, students, and guests. Extra tickets will be available at the door. 
Seating reservations for the Presi­dent's dinner will be taken on Jan. 
22, 23. More information concerning seating will appear in The Obseroer soon. 
To ob­tain additional tickets for this event, contact Student Activities. 
ND Choir 
holds 
auditions 
The Notre Dame Chapel Choir will hold auditions to ftll several spaces in the second-semester choir. Both male and female voices are needed. Interested persons should contact the choir director, Professor Sue Seid-Martin at 277-5181. 
Chapel Choir is a liturgical choir which sings at the Sunday 10:30 Mass in Sacred Heart Church, and at Sunday evening Vespers in the Lady Chapel. The choir also celebrates various other university events, such as graduation and Holy Week 
fhe choir will tour through the Mid­west during the last two weeks of May with jazz musician Dave. Brubeck. 
Molarity 
Peanuts 
IN CASE OF ILLNESS OR ACCIDENT, NOTIFY: NAME-----­STREET APT._ 

ACROSS 
1 Indian wheat 


The Daily Crossword 
flour 
5 Steep declivity 10 "The -We 
Were" 13 Couple 14 Ankle 15 Hot under 
the collar 16 Spread 17 Violin 
maker 18 Algerian seaport 
19 Devices for clean­ing gas 


1 Soldiers' addresses 2 Powder 
ingredient 3 Layer 4 24-hour 5 Horses' 
milieux 6 Coat 
material 7 Winglike 8 Grooves 9 Greek 
©1981 by Chicago Tribune-N.Y. News Synd. Inc. letter All Rights Reserved 1/17/81 10 Coward 
Michael Molinelli 


Charles Schulz 
WHAT'S AN 11 APT II MARCIE?DON'TTELL ME! I'LL 8ET IT MEANS ''ARE '(OU THE KIND WHO'S . 
APT TO GET SICK?" 




21 Andy and 42 Atomic family machine 22 Nice--43 Milk sugar prudish 45 Conducted 23 Smudge 46 Burn super· 
or stew ficially 24 Violins 47 Steam 27 Heavy 50 Supposed 
applause medical 31 Organiza-remedy tion 54 Norse name 32 Stock-55 Repent holder 56 Failure 34 Collar 57 War machine edging 58 Enchantress 36 Mohammedan 59 Book of 
name the Bible 37 Release 60 Crafty 38 Seemingly 61 Kilmer 41 Avoid poem 
62 Hollow stem 
DOWN 
11 "I don't 
give-" 12 Cravings 15 Texan, 
for one 20-canto 21 Russian 
dramatist 23 Bakery 
item 24 Exictement 25 Busy 26 Pronuncia· 
mentos 27 Sheen 28 Flower: 
comb. form 29 Wine drink 30 Monotone 33 Priestly 
wear 35 Go in 39 Turf 40 N.Y.team 44 Vehicle: 
abbr. 46 Sleep sound 47 Soldiers 
no more 48 USSRsea 49 Coniferous 50 Agitate 51 Leak 
slowly 52 Monster 53 Frog's 
cousin 55 Perform 
I I 
I I I I I 
I. 


"The next day,John was at the river again with two ofhis disciples. As he watchedjesus walk by, he said, 'look, There is the Lamb ofGod!' The two 
disciples heard what he said, and followed Jesus. Whenjesus turned around 
and noticed them following him, he asked them, 'What are you looking for?' 
They said to him, 'Rabbi, where do you stay?' 
"COME AND SEE," 
he answered. So they went to see where he was lodged, and stayed with him tbat day." 
GENTLEMEN: 

THE FRANCISCAN FRIARS 
/•. 
·~ 
INVITE YOU TO "COME AND SEE", 
VOCATION RETREAT 
JAN30-FEB1 
FRANCISCAN RETREAT CENTER Mount Saint Francis, Indiana 
For your reservation or for funher Information contact Friar Richard or Friar William: 
St. Anthony Novitiate 1316 W. Dragon Trail Transponation will be providedMishawaka, IN 46,44 tor ND !5tudents 
1
(219)2SS-2442 
Need 

Then sell air time for WSND I 
Organizational meeting for WSND sales staff tonight, 7:09pm Room 36 J O'Shag. All NDISMC Students welcome. 


Monday,January 19, 1981 -page 7






Sports Brie s 
~~~~~~==========================~ 


by The Ohsm•t•r and The Auucialt•d Prnr 
The Water Polo Clubwill hold a mandatory meeting tomorrow at 7 p.m. In the small auditorium of LaFortune for anyone Interested in playing water polo this spring. Elections for officers will also be held. Contact Pat McDivitt at 8650 or Mike Gosclenski at 8603 for more information. 
Bjorn Borg, the master cr~man from Sweden, thrashed Czechoslovakia's Ivan I..endl6-4, 6-2, 6-2, yesterday to win his second consecutive Volvo Grand Prix Masters tennis tournament. Borg's vic­tory in New York's Madison Square Garden avenged two straight losses to Lend!. It was the first trip for Lend! to the eight-man, round­robin tournament that climaxes the 92-tourney worldwide Grand Prix circuit. The 20-year-old Czech was the top junior player in the world in 1971'1 and has risen quickly to the top of the professional ranks. The victory was worth S I 00,000 and a new Volvo for Borg. Lend! received $64,000. -AP 
The Rugby Club will hold a meeting on Thursday at 7 
p.m. in the LaFortunt• Ballroom. New members are welcome. 
The Notre Datne and St. Mary's fencers all 
enjoyed success this weekend, posting three team victories apiece. The Irish men rolled past Tri-State. ( 22-5 ), Purdue ( 22-5) and Wisconsin-Parkside ( 26-1 ). Marc De Jong, Jim Thompson, Tom Lansford, Dave Anthony, Jaime Colley Capo and joe Gamarra all went 3-0 in the ti>il competition. In the epee, Rich Daly went 5-0 and John Mcllride went 3-0. Greg Armi, Sal D'Allura and Sal Muoio went 2-0 in the sabre. The Notre Dame women beat the same three opponents by 
14-2, 5-4 and 9-0 scores respectively as Marcella Lansford (Tom's sis­ter) wcnl H-0 with the foil. St. Mary's turned back the same-trio by 12-4, 6-j and 9-0 counts. Twila Kitchin led the Belle's going 7-0 in the foil. Tht·se were the tlrst matches oftht· season for .all three teams. 
The women's track club practices every day in the ACC concourse at 4:30p.m. Anyone intercstt•d in participating is en­couraged to attend. Be prepared to run outside. For more information contact Cindy McNally at 81 52 or Rosanne Bellomo at 6896. 
DePaul forward Mark Aguirre shattered the 
Blue Demons all-time scoring record of I,896 points with a 25-point 
performance yesterday to lead the fourth-ranked Blue Demons, now 
l'i-1, to a 90-75 victory over Wagner. Aguirre, a 6-foot-7 junior, 
surpassed the mark of former DePaul center Dave Corzine. who 
amassed his points from 1974-78. Aguirre, who now has I,902 points 
in less than three years, set the mark when he converted a slam-dunk 
with II: 17 remaining. 
Practice for Bengal Bouts will being today at 4 
p.m. in the boxing room. The Bengal Bouts are scheduled for March I 4 and 7. 
.. .leers 
Grassey's article on page B. (Photo byjohn Macor) 

purist's delight, marked by close checking and steady goaltending by Jensen and McN;;omara McNamara was almost perfect, allowing only a point-blank wrist shot by Phil Sykes -at 1 :48 ofthe first period -to get 
past him. He faced 34 shots on the night, and looked sharp in his first . full ?Uting since suffering a 12-1 shellacking at the hands of Wiscon­sin. 
The Irish offense was more effi­cient, but not more effective. They managed 40 shots onJensen, but on­ly Humphreys could get the puck past him. Midway through the third period, Poulin ~et up Logan with a shot from the right wing circle. His shot was blocked, but Humphrt·ys, parked in front, slapped in tht· rebound to tie the game. 
The ten-minute overtime produced no serious threats to cit­her goal, although Smith agreed that his squad looked tentative in its forcchccking, allowing the Sioux to outshoot his club 13-4 in the extra period. 
"It was really sort of hairy out there," Smith said. "We started to be a little bit too cautious, and this is 
exactly  what  we  warned  them  
against doing."  
Also  hairy  wa.~  Notre  Dame's  
glaring inefficiency  on  the power  

play, with the Irish failing on all I 0 advantages Saturday night and all six Friday night. "I don't think this has happened before in the entire his­tory of the league," Smith joked af. tcrwards. But it was a punchline accompanied by frustration: "It just drives you out ofyour tree." 
.Eages1 

Continuedfrom page 8 
Vermeil is one of those coaches who has a bit of a warped sense of purpose in an amateur setting. But at the professional level. the former UCLA head coach's Lombardi-like philosophy seems to fit. 
"The only fun thing about football," he professes, "is winning." / 
And to win in Philadelphia, Vermeil has gone to great lengths, including grueling training and practice ses­sions. staff meetings until 3 or 4 a.m. and then work by himself aftt·r that. The week before his team knocked off Pittsburgh in 1979, Vermeil spent the entire week in Vt·terans Stadium -night and day. 
The Bergeys and the Charmichaels and the LeMasters 
know what the Vermeil Work Ethic has done for them. 
They remember the days when Ed Khayat made all of 
his players with facial hair remove it or they would be 
removed from the roster. They also remember Khayat's 
dismal 2-1 1-I record in 1972. 
They remember Mr. Nice Guy, Mike McCormack, 
who left George Allen's staff in Washington to lead the 
Eagles. They remember Mike's disappointing 4-10 1975 
season. 
.Hoops 
Continuedfrom page 8 
with Fordham will tipoff at 8 p.m. in the ACC...the game will be telecast nationwide on independt·nt net· works as part ofMadison Square Gar­den's college basketball series on Monday nights... Fordham, coached by Tom Penders, is 10-3 on the season and penders has been saying this could be the year of a Fordham win over the lish in the New York papers the past few weeks...Digger's move from Fordham to Notre Dame ten years ago has not been forgotten by the revenge-seeking Ea.~ter­ners...Thc Rams possess a balanced attack led by David Maxx.well's 12.6 scoring mean... 7-0 Dud (that's Dude) Tonga! and cousin Edward Bona arc key Fordham guns who hail from Sudan. 
They remember the Bicentennial weekend. 
Everyone else in the country was whooping it up as 
they celebrated America's 200th birthday. The Eagles 
were beginning their first Dick Vermeil summer 
survival-test, at least a week ahead of the rest of the 
teams. 

They remember wondering, "What on earth could be worth all this?" The Eagles' first draft pick in 1976 was in the 4th Round, in 1977 the 5th Round and in 1978 the 3rd Round. All the blood, sweat and tears in the world couldn't build a future for this team. 
But Dick Vermeil did. 
Philadelphia enters Super Bowl XV with a roster that features just four 1st Round draft choices (DB Roynell Young, 1980; LB jerry Robinson, 1979; OT Jerry Sisemore, 1973 and Claude Humphrey, 1968 by At­lanta), hardly a home-grown dynasty like the teams of the '70s -Pittsburgh, Dallas, Miami and Minnesota. 
Vermeil took his own wisely-chosen picks, a surpris­ing number offree agents, like Herman Edwards, Louie Giammona and Charley Smith, and refUgees like Ron Jaworski, Woody Peoples and Humphreys, and built a... championship... Vermeil-style. 
SCUBA LESSONS 
Spring Semester Come to Room 2D LaFortune Center 7:00PM -Jan. 22 Bring $30 Deposit 
Find out about our Bahamas Trip for Spring Break! 

Call 272-8607 or 272-9780 
Aquapro Scuba Center 


I'MBEHIND THE IRISH The cheerleaders have BOOSTER POMPOMSand I'MBEHIND THE IRISH (rumperstickers & cloth patches) 
for~le. 
You ctJtJ cotJitJCt the Sludt~fll A.clitJiti. office, 1st Floor Lt~Portune (13(J8) 
ort~•Y Cheerletldt~r 


AIRLINES 
Major airlines are now accepting ap­plications for the following oppor­tunities: FLIGHT An:ENDANTS RAMP A BAGGAGE PERSONNEL TICKET AGENTS RESERVATIONS AGENTS CLERICAL POSITIONS CUSTOMER SERVICE FOOD SERVICE AIRCRAFf CLEANING BOOKKEEPING AIRCRAFf MAINTENANCE Individuals interested in applying with these alrUoes companies must be career oriented, have a public relations personality, be willing to travel if required, and be in good health. Major alrUoes will provide training for many of the posidon.s listed above. For further lnfonnadon on bow to im­mediately apply directly with these maJor alrUoes companies, ·write to: TRAVELEX, INC. A1TEN: AIRLINES APPLICATION INFO 3865 SOU111WASATCH BLVD. SUITE 101 SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH 8U09 
Please indicate brlefty your background, wbat alrUnes posl­don(s) you are interested in applying for and enclose a stamped, self-adt:lftsaed, letter-size envelope 110 that you may receive further lnformadon as to what steps to take 110 that pos­sible interviews miaht be arranaed by these alrUoes. All dUIJor lllrUn 



Monday,January 19, 1981 -page 8 
Five minute letdown 

leers salvage Saturday tie 
ByTOMJACKMAN Notre Dame continued to out· between Laurion's legs. Forty Sports Writer skate the Sioux early in the second seconds later, Laurion was beaten to period, but Dakota smartly 'took ad­the glove side as Dean Dachyshyn By Lefty Smith's estimate, his Irish vantage of two briefdefensive lapses floated into the slot untouched and hockey club played about 12 5 to find the net five times and put the whipped a waist-high shot just minutes of solid hockey this game out of reach. inside. the post. Finally, Dachyshyn 
weekend against the nation's top· "There's always a snake out there scored again -Dakota's fourth ranked team, North Dakota. But in waiting to bite us," noted Smith, shorthanded tally of the year ­the remaining five minutes of the "everyiime we make a mistake." It taking advantge of NO's failure to 
series, the visiting Fighting Sioux was an appropriate metaphor to backcheck. The junior wing netted scored more goals than Notre Dame describe Dakota's tying goal, a an easy backhander off another two­could muster both nights combined, routine slapshot from just inside the on-one break to up the margin to 5· and Dakota left South Bend with point by Craig Ludwig, which broke 1. Sophomore goalie Bob McNamara was nothing short of spec­three additional points in the stand­through the heel of Laurion's goalie Laurion faceli only eight shots in tacular during Saturday night's sudden-death overtime period, ings, via a 7-3 victory and a I-I tie. 
stick and slid into the net. the period, but stopped only three,collecting I3 ofhis game-total 33 saves during a 1·1 tie with top­The series kept Dakota solidly in Less than three minutes later, and Smith replaced him with Bob 
ranked North Dakota. (Photo by RachelBlount) first place in the WCHA, with a I0-4-Dakota went ahead for good. Apply­McNamara in the third period. 2 league record, but the Irish fell fur· ing heavy pressure in front of the Notre Dame looked ready to jump ther back in their continued struggle Irish goal, Troy Magnuson finally back into the fray in the third period, 
for the league's eighth (and last) picked up a rebound and scooped it scoring two goals in the first 40 playoff spot. The Irish fell to 5-l 0-1 into the upper heart ofthe net over a seconds. Both goals were courtesy
Women drop tw-o 
in the league (II points), while sprawled Laurion. Dakota now had of Notre Dame's only effective line eighth place Colorado College the momentum, and used it not long of the night: the line of Kevin picked up a Saturday night victory after for a three-goal burst that ex­Humphreys -Dave Poulin -JeffBy DONNA WITZLEBEN Notre Dame's disappointing 40 per over Minnesota-Duluth, giving them ploited some obvious Irish lapses. Logan. Poulin scored after 12
Sports Writer cent shooting from the ·floor made 
three points of breathing room be­First, Dunstan Carroll scored on a seconds when his centering passthe difference. 
tween themselves and the Irish. two-on-one break, sailing down the 
Notre Dame's women's basketball Chicago-Circle See ICERS, page 7
Against Illinois Notre Dame did well to shut left side and then poking a wrist shot 
team met two tough Division I op· yesterday, DiStanislao decided to 
down the high-powered Dakota of· 

ponents over the weekend. But the "try and break out of the slump," 
fense, led by freshman center Troy

inexperience ofthe Irish at that level starting freshmen Klauke, Ryan, 
Murray (52 points in 22 games) and 



CagersgetbyHofstra,
showed as they lost bth games by Teresa Mullins and Kara O'Malley 
sophomore wing Glen White ( 42

decisive margins. and sophomore Debbie Hensley. 
points in 22 games). Ofthe two, only

Saturday, the slumping Irish Little seemed to go well for the Irish, 
White was able to pick up a point 


readyfor Fordham
played host to Miami of Ohio. The however, as Circle rolled to a 78-6I 
when he assisted on Friday night's

Irish and the Redskins played a tight victory. One of many fast break 
game-winning goal, while Murray

first half as visiting Miami clung to a buckets put the hustling Chikas up By GARY GRASSEY scoreless tie before Tripucka con­
was shut down completely.

slim 27-26 margin with 3:48 remain· by I2 with 8:07 remaining in the Sports Writer verted a three-point play almost four
The Irish skated well on both

ing until the intermission. first half. Notre Dame was unabte to minutes into the contest. Hofstra
nights, forechecking aggressively

The Redskins then exploded, taking pull no closer than nine points Fresh from two last-second didn't grace the double-figures
and keeping the pressure off of its

advantage of an defensive break· thereafter. The Irish couldn't con­defeats at the end of its Christmas category for I1 minutes when 6-8
goalies. Notre Dame probably

down to outscore the Irish 33·4 for a tain red-hot Linda Blackwell who road trip, the Notre Dame basketball Gary Cheslock hit an awkward hook
played most effectively during the 

6I·30 lead early in the second half. finished with 26 points. team returned to more familiar quar­from in close to lift the score to a
first period of the first game, when 

"We just died." said Coach Mary Notre Dame was led by game-high ters, but even some good home­resounding I2-11 count in Notre
Dakota could manage only six shots 

DiStanislao about her team's effort in scorer Matvey with 29 points. on Laurion and the cooking and the confines ofthe ACC Dame's favor.
Dave Irish 

the secnd half. Klauke added 16 in a losing cause. couldn't generate more than the Hofstra, which chipped in 22 tur­
repeatedly pressured Dakota goalie 

The Redskins,now 8-I0 on the The Irish shot poorly from the floor sloppiest ofvictories over Hofstra by novers to the Irish cause on the day,
DarrenJensen. 

year, took advantage 62 per cent once again -a 34 per cent effort. a 65-55 margin Saturday afternoon. was very sloppy. Btft Notre Dame's
The pressure finally paid offlate in 

shooting for the game to tie an all­The Irish record dropped to 5-8. "They gave us a scare when they offensive play was equally gracious
the period, when scrappy wing Bill 

time Notre Dame opponents record DiStanislao's crew now got (the lead) down to four," said in the missed-shot category and the
must Rothstein dug the puck out from be­
for most points in a game enroute to regroup for its Thursday night dash All-America forward Kelly Tripucka Irish struggled to a 31-28 halftime
hind the net and sent a centering

their 93·53 romp. with visiting Valparaiso."We're ofthe seventh-ranked Irish, now 9-3 edge.
pass in front. Defenseman Scott 

Notre Dame's freshman guardJen­going to play more aggressively." on the season. "But we kept our "We're just not shooting well,"
Cameron picked up the loose puck 

ny Klauke poured in I4 while said DiStanisiao, who must erase this composure. I never felt we were said Irish guard John Paxson, who
and fired it past Jensen with I5

calssmate and backcourt mate Molly weekend's preformance from her goir:tg to lose." was an uncharacteristic 2-of-8
seconds left -his second goal ofthe 

Ryan and sophomore forward Shari team's mind. "Tomorrow's another But the Flying Dutchmen from against Hofstra. "But then again
year -and the Irish had a I-0 inter­

Matvey each helped with I 0 a piece. team and another game." Long Island sure felt they had a anytime you can beat a team by I 0 
mission lead. 

chance to steal an unlikely win with and shoot whatever we shot, we're 
4:32 to play and Notre Dame's lead not in bad shape." cut to 51-47. Hofstra had trailed by Notre Dame lead all the way and
For Eagle vets 
seven, but Dutchmen high scorer by as much as 45;34 eight minutes David Taylor drove to the hole and into the second half, but Hofstra, one drew an invisible foul from Notre of the best 6-8 teams in the country,
Tears ofjoy in Philly 
Dame's Orlando Woolridge. never gave up. Tayior worked the Taylor, who totaled 16 points, hit lane effectively with the unor­PHILADELPHIA -It's n-ry easy to accept things that 

both free throws and was awarded a thodox Cheslock ( 14 points) and 
are given to us. It's another matter to fully appreciatt· third because Woolridge had Lionel Harvey ( 13 points), but thethem. 
grabbed the rim on after his foul. Tripucka-Woolridge-Jackson trio The City ,of Brotherly Love was quite fortunate The 6-8 Dutchman hit the technical bailed out the Irish when it counted. 
during the last lO months. The world of profession;!! 
and Hofstra'prepared to inbound at Jackson used his muscle to sports blcs~ed this city with thl' best baseball team, the midcourt. Despite the pleas ofcoach dominate Hofstra's smallish back­second hest basketball team and the second best Dick Berg fot:, his team to call a ourt with I 7 points and 8 rebounds,hockev tl·am in 1980. Now Pittshurgh's replacement as timeout, the Dutchmen inbounded,.., while Tripucka and Woolridgethe Ciiy ofChampions is on the verge ofowninga Supn Taylor traveled, and the momentum cashed in 19 and 1 5 points
Bowl championship. for five years, and I'm not slighting the ones who have swung to Notre Dame. respectively. The 6-6 Tripucka sank Philaddphia Fagle fans cannot fully grasp what thc11 been here for four or three or two or one, but you guys Tracy Jackson hit a jumper from four ofhis nine foul shots in the final team accomplished this year. They filled the stand,. like Harold Carmichael and Stan Walters and Bill Bergey the left side of the key for Notre minute to end Hofstra's final threat. 
made their feelings known when they disapproved and and Jerry Sisemore and Frank LeMaster -you remem­Dame. Irish forward Bill Varner "I thought early in the game, our went bonzo when everything went the way it w,J, ber what it was like when I first got here. You hated the followed home his own miss and shot selection was poor," said Notre supposed to. But to really appreciate what the team ;Jl" way I made you work. But man, it was worth it." 
Hofstra, although the lead was only Dame coach Digger Phelps. "Ai the complished, they would have had to have been part ,,r And a week later, the dream of a lifetime became a four with 1 :37 left, was forced to end of the game we kept our poise
the organization for the paM decade. reality. The Cowboys couldn't turn things around like play catch-up and foul the: rest ofthe and made our foul shots." 
Their helm-ed "lggles" had just beaten the Minncs<'LJ they did in Atlanta the previous week. The Eagles over­wav. 
Tripucka was relieved to end the 
Vikings, 31-16. to earn a spot in their first confcrenn· whelmed the line of scrimmage, and Dallas, 20-7. They 
,;1 thought two of them (Hofstra two-game losing streak, but title game in 20 years. The crowd of 70,000 stron!! were on their way to New Orleans. The scoreboard told players) were looking right at me or surprised by the Dutchmen. "l think remained in the stands chanting"We Want Dallas," with the fans who had endured a 17-bclow wind-chill factor I would have stepped further out on there was a confidence factor hopes of a Cowboy victory over the Falcons the nc:>.t the good news: the court,"_-Berg said of the non­working against us," he said. "After day. That would bring the title game to Phitadclphi.l 
timeout. two tough losses to two teams we instead of making their "lgglcs" go to Atlanta. "WEATHER IN THE SllPERDOME-72 AND DRY" The game probably wouldn't have were better than, to turn around and In the locket room, the scene was somewhat dif­stayed close had the Irish been able play somebody we didn't know ferent. The players and coaches were politely telling lrv "America's Team" would be watching the Super to dispell the gang-that-couldn't­much about was hard. 
Cross on CBS that they didn't care who they played next Bowl on American TV. His team was on its way to per­shoot-straight image that has "We'll get the momentum back," week. "I'm just happy to be going," said veteran haps the biggest sporting event in North America, but plagued them since Tuesday's loss to he added. "We're trying to catch up
linebacker Bill Bergey. Vermeil couldn't believe it. 
San Francisco. Saturday's 37 percent on our sleep after the trip, but A few minutes later, the room fell silent. The players "I really can't visualize going to the Super Bowl," he performance from the floor waS only Fordham's gonna be tough...these fell to their knees asthe team chaplain read a Psalm of said. "I really can't. I told the squad that last night. I said, 
the second time Notre Dame has next three games are gonna be Thanksgiving. Then Coach Dick Vermeil collected him­'It's almost incomprehensible we're this close to going,' 
failed to make halfits shots in a game tough." 
selfenough to express a few heartfelt emotions. and now it's almost impossible to believe weare going." 
all year. HOOP-LORE -Tonight's game"You guys know how I feel," he said as he fought to 
The game had all the makings ofa
See EAGLES, page 7

hold back further tears. "You guys who have been here See HOOPS, page 7 






