

VOL. XVI, NO. 69 an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and saint mary's 

Assassination plot 
Khadafy denies reports 
NEWYORK(AP)-Ubyanleader been sent to the United States with protection in recent days around Col. Moammar Khadafy denied yes­orders from the Libyan leader to kill I Reagan, Vice President George Bush terday that he has sent "hit squads" Reagan. and Cabinet officials while asking to as.'>assinate President Reagan and Reagan said Friday he was news organizations to show 
challenged the United States to "concerned" about intelligence in­restraint in reporting specific provt· that such a plot exists. formation that he is the chief target security measures that might aid 
"We an: sure we haven't sent any of a Ubyan-trained assassination would-be assassins. people to kill Reagan or any other squad. Asked if he took the plot Khadafy ridiculed the American people In the world, and we want to seriously, the president said, "I think attention to a supposed threat from see these big lies," he said. "We have you have to." Libya, which he pointed out has no patience to hear this again, and if Before the Khadafy interview Sun­about one-hundredth the popula­they have evidence, we are ready to day, ABC news reported that V.S. in­tion ofthe United States. see this evidence." telligence officials have identified "How you are silly people!" he 
Khadafy's challenge came in a said. "You are superpower, how you television interview from his office are afraid? Oh, it is silly this ad· in Tripoli for the ABC News program 'It is the behavior ministration, and this president. 
"This Week with !)avid Brinkley," America must get rid of this ad­beamed live to th United States by ministration, and fell it down, as they
of America ... to 
satellite. did with Nixon, and elect another 
"We want investigation, to see the respectful president to get respect truth, and let the American people assassinate me, for America." and the Libyan people and the Khadafy said Reagan "is silly and congress of America to know the he is not qualified to lead America as 
truth, who is liar: Reagan or Ubya," a superpower." The Libyan then
to poison my food ... ' 
he said. "I am challenging them. I am said: "He is dying like a child," but challenging them to make this inves­his off-camera adviser broke in to tigation." the members of a five-man squad as correct: "he is behaving." 
Khadafy, dressed in a red shirt three Libyans, an Iranian and an East Sen. Daniel Patrick Moynihan, D­covered by an embroidered blue German. It said the FBI was tracking N.Y., acting chairman of the Senate cape, spoke in English, but with a the team, which was said to be Intelligence Committee, said on 
heavy accent that was sometimes armed with automatic weapons and ABC immediately after Khadafy was difficult to understand. Occasionally under Khadafy's direct control. interviewed that the demand for an olf.(:amera prompter suggested a Newsweek magazine said Satur­proof of a Libyan plot is "a fair re­word, or corrected something day that a Lebanese defector told quest. I think something like this 
"/ tell you, I get no respect ... I
Khadafy said. U.S. intelligence that he was present should be done." 
told my son about the birds and the
Rodney
The 39-year-old Libyan at a meeting in Libya six or eight But Moynihan said the United 
a bees, and be told me about m_y wife
strongman, who took power in weeks ago at which Khadafy ordered States has firm evidence Khadafy has 
and the milkman . . . " Rodney
1969 coup, called Reagan silly, ig· the assassination of Reagan and been planning terrorist actions for 
Dangerfield at the ACC. See related 
norant and unqualified, and said the other top U.S. officials. years and said that during the inter­

Dangerfield 
article on page 6. (Photo by john
American president was lying and Security officials have tightened view, "That man was lying to us." 
Macor)
behaving like a child. But he denied ordering Reagan's death. "We refuse to assassinate any per­son. 
It Is not our custom, our be­Face lawsuits havior, to assassinate any person," he said. "lt is the behavior of America ...to assassinate me, to 

State to sell water from the Missouri River 
olson my food, and they tried many 1mes to do this." By ERIC NEWHOUSE that South Dakota has decided to sell with Wyoming coal to produce a 1 OOfoot-deep Oahe Reservoir, White House spokesman Robin Associated Press Writer water from the nation's longest soot-colored milkshake which will located near Pierre, S.D. Gray said the administration would river. creep south through 40-inch pipes More water is lost through
ST. LOVIS (AP)-French explorers
have no comment on Khadafy's chal­Forcenturies, the Missouri flowed to power plants in Arkansas, -ok­evaporation alone on the reservoir,
Jacques Marquette and Louis Joliet 
lenge to produce evidence behind freely for 2,546 miles from Three lahoma and Louisiana. The 1,300-said the governor, noting that 7.16
wouldn't recognize the "Big Mud­Forks, Mont., to the Mississippi, mile trip would take about 12 days. trillion gallons of Missouri Rivernews reports that intelligence offi­dy," today and still more changes are 
draining surplus water from I 0 
water flow out of South Dakota andcials believe a terrorist team has in store for the Missouri River now states east of the Rocky Mountains into Iowa each year. -an area roughly one-sixth of the MONDA "The river hasn't been completely continental United States. developed yet," agreed Carroll It changed its channel at will, Hamon, executive director of the

Fire breaks out · -.FOCUS1 1
flooded frequently, and dwindled to Missouri Basin States Association. a stream in dry times. "According to a 1975 study, as During the past 90 years, man and janklow has defended the deal -much as a million acre feet (about 
nature cut off 230 miles of the river which could net South Dakota S 1.4 325.8 billion gallons) could be sold 1 by removing some of its natural billion over the next 50 years -from the river before full in-basin By TIM VERCELLOITI "I yelled to my date to get out of loops. saying it would take only an inch of 

in Planner kitchen 
See FOCUS, page 4 
News Editor the way and to get everyone out of water per year from the top of the
And the V.S. Army Corps of En­
the section," Bacic said. Another 
gineers built levees along the river 
A fire in a kitchenette on the third third floor resident, Greg Austria, 
banks, stabilizing the channel. lt has floor of Flanner Hall broke out at ap­came to Bacic's assistance with a fire also harnessed the mighty river with 
proximately 10 p.m. on Saturday extinguisher, which Bacic emptied six huge dams since World War II. 
SMC Board of Governance 
night. There were no injuries, onto the fire. In spite ofthis, the fire The dams created reservoirs, which according to Third Floor Resident continued. Austria proceeded to ended the flooding. Assistant Bob Bacic, and little pull the fire alarm, while Bacic put "Those six big bathtubs can store 
makes proposal for HPC 
damage. out the fire with a second fire extin­more than three times the annual 
Bacic explained that he was pre­guisher. flow of the river," says Harry Dol­MARY MciNERNEY Mary's.students in forming opinions. heating the oven in the kitchenette The Notre Dame fire department phin of Omaha, Neb., a spokesman News Staff We would like to have some channel for a batch of cookies, when he arrived shonly thereafter, and in­for the corps. to get a better idea of student 
The provides The Saint Mary's Board of Gover­
noticed that there was smoke in the spected the kitchen. A member of river power and opinion." 
oven. Baclc discovered a grease­the department's staff reponed that drinking water for cities along its nance met last night to discuss a There has been a problem with ef­route, as well as irrigating 50,000 newly formulated proposal for a Hall fective publicity in dorms.
covered piece of foil in the oven, there was little damage. According acres of cropland. In the planning President's Council. Trimarchi stated, "As a council, we
which he discarded. He placed the to the fire department, the Univer­stages or under construction are ir­Hal,l Presidents met before think we can be a lot more effectivecookies in the oven, and left the sity will make an assessment of the rigation projects to irrigate an addi· Thanksgiving Break and formulated in utilizing section reps as far as bet­
room. incident. 
tional 600,000 acres. the proposal, in the hope that the ter publicity is concerned. " Upon return to the kitchen a short Bacic recalled that most of the And more ambitious projects are Board ofGovernance would suppon Student Body President, Eileentime later, Bade, along with Christie damage was to the oven. He said that being developed for the river's their efforts. Julia Trimarch t i, Murphy said, "There is no reasonPeters, his date for a "Screw-Your­there was little else that "could not 
water. Augusta Hall President submitted why these issues can't be introducedRoommate" which was going on in be cleaned up". 
One such plan, worked out by the proposal saying, ''We want to in seperate halls. This proposal looks the basement of the dorm, noticed Bro. Pete Mahoney, Flanner Hall South Dakota Gov. BiliJanklow, and pull the dorms together and not like a student senate, not an HPC. 
that the kitchen was filled with Rector, praised Bacic's quick action. 
approved by the state legislature in a have them operate as seperate en­This is what Board of Governance smoke. "He responded very well, he special September session, involves tities. We want to present this on a is."
was Bacic entered the kitchen, very conscientious" Mahoney said. selling 16.3 billion gallons ofwater a 
formalized basis. When you have Mary Anne O'Donnell, Director of opened the oven door, and was hit Ms. Peters commented that the year to Energy Transportation Sys­something formally created, you get Student Activities, agreed saying, with a "wall of flame". Bacic was far hall staff "handled the situation very tems Inc. for a coal slurry pipeline. more participation." Lemans Hall "The proposal sounds like a student enough away from the oven that he ETSI, a company set up by five President, Kim Kentra said, "It is our
See FIRE, page 4 See SMC, page S
was not burned. large corporations, would mix water hope that the council will aid Saint 
i' 




l\T~~S~j5J==~==i=~~~~S========~======================M=o=n=da=y=,D=e=ce=m=b=e=r=7,=1=98=I===p=ag=e~2 
•
I 
I I 
l 
I ~ 
by Tl1e Oh.rerz'er and The Associated Press 
Toss-ups, bonus questions, the buzzer and 
the bell all return to the airwaves whenCollegeBowl begins its third season on the CBS Radio Network the week of)an. 4, with a 26-game schedule featuring Art Fleming as host and Nelson Davis as an­nouncer. The CBS Radio Network version ofthe "varsity sport ofthe mind" revives the acclaimed game program which began on radio in the '50s and moved to television in the '60s. The CBS Radio COL­LEGE BOWL broadcasts will include 17 regular-season games and nine post-season match-ups from the National Championship tournament, highlighted by the title game. CollegeBowl is playedon more than 300 campuses across the country under the auspices of the Association of College Unions-International. Teams qualify for National Championship berths by winning one of 1 5 regional tournaments, or by capturing three wins in a row during several College Bowl"mini-weeks" where the games are taped for later CBS Radio Network broadcasts. The question-and-answer format ofCol­lege Bowl games pits two four-member teams in competition to score the most points in answer to questions .as asked by the m:>derator. Toss-ups, worth 10 points, are open to both teams, and 
the team responding correctly is offered a bonus question, for 20 to 35 points. The questions themselves are drawn from a wide range of subjects, including science, culture, the arts and history, .and are researched and authenticated by Time magazine. The Obseroer 
The University ofNotre Dame has added a 
sixth undergraduate foreign study program, this one for College of Arts and Letters students located in London, England. Since the es­tablishment ofa Sophomore Year Abroad Program at the University oflnnsbruck in Austria in 1964, Notre Dame has added programs in Angers, France, Mexico City, Tokyo, and Rome (architecture). Also, the Center for Experiential Learning has two small, culturally focused programs in Mexico. Some Notre Dame undergraduates are also enrolled in two programs run by Saint Mary's College in Rome 
and Maynooth, Ireland. The new undergraduate program will be located in Conannon House, the University's London facility, which houses the Notre Dame M.B.A. studentsstudying in England. Provost Timothy 0'Meara has appointed Edward W. Jerger Special Assistant to the Provost. He is charged with supervising the move into the Concannon House and with the sharing ofthe facility. The academic directors of the programs are Thomas Fern, Associate Professor of Art for the Arts and Letters program, W. Anthony West, Professor of Law for the Law School, and Raymond Powell, Professor ofAccount­ing, for the M.B.A. students. While in residence in London from Dec. 1981 to June 1982, Jerger will also examine the possibility of expanding Longon programs to include undergraduate science and engineering students.The Obseroer 
Asian natiOnS are concerned about United States policy "which encourages Japan's remilitarization," the Soviet army newspaper Red Star said Sunday. They are also watching "certain circles" which hope to restore Japan's military prestige, the newspaper said. Japan's militarism, the Soviets said, "always posed a grave threat to security and the very existence ofother peoples. To facilitate its revival and further consolidate (the) means to jeopard­ize peace once again means to forget the lessons ofhistory." -AP 
Flash floods that swept western Turkey last week have unearthed a tomb tentatively dated back to the Hellenistic age in Asia Minor, officials at the archeological museum in Aydin said Sun­day. The officials ofthe archeological museum in Aydin, southeast of the Aegean coastal city oflzmir, said the tomb was discovered in the village of Tekir. It contained a bronze mirror-like object, two por­celain perfume containers, a statuette and seven coins, the officials said. 
Archeologists have tentatively dated the tomb to between the fourth and 1Oth centuries B.C. -AP 
Female prisoners are trained to perform 
low-paying domestic and traditional "women's" occupations while men learn high-paying vocational skills, a lawsuit by four inmates of the Indiana Women's Prison alleges. The federal court suit, filed Friday by Carol A. Wilds, Carolyn Pinkston, Mary Sink and Geraldine Mitchell, accuses the Indiana Department of Correction of dis­criminating against female inmates. An aide to Gov. Robert D. Orr, who is named as a defendant, declined to comment on the suit. -AP 
A state trooper who stopped a car for speeding dis­covered S750,000 in stolen jewelry, officials said. State police said the jewels found in the carSaturday had been stolen in Houston from an international shipment. Victor Antonio Mendez, 32, and Anthony John Romanello, 44, both of Elmont, N.Y., were charged with rob­bery, kidnapping and customs violations and were held on 51.3 mil­lion bail each, .police said. The jewelry -70 pounds of it -was taken Thursday evening at Intercontinental Airport in Houston from an Air France courier, Houston Police Det. Michael E. Hurley said. ­
AP 
Partly cloudy, mild, high toctay in the mid-5os, cooler tonight, lows in the 30s. -Obseroer 

A semester of Obs~rvation 


The closing days of a semester are usually a time of reflection for students. We all look back over the past f~ur months, and take stock of what we've done, and how we've grown as we inch closer to a degree. 
For many of us here at The Obseroer, this newspaper also figures into that personal inventory. After sixteen weeks oflate nights and enormous amounts ofcaffeine, I've begun to weigh the advantages and disadvantages ofworking as a news editor. 
For starters, this newspaper can take up a large amount of one's time. After awhile, section-mates have trouble recalling your name, and friends begin to leave notes reading "How are things going? See you at com­mencement!" Your roommate looks at you suspiciously as you return to the room late at night, and you know he's asking himself "Hmm, was that the guy I saw at room picks last year?" 
In addition, member's of this staff, like participants in 
an extracurricular activity, must try to strike a balance 
between The Obseroer and the classroom. This is .a 
struggle at times, and unfortunately, there are times 
when the scale tips in one direction, and something suf­
fers. 

Late nights, less time with friends, lower 
grades...there must be more 
to this job than that. Perhaps 
it's the fame. One reader, 
when I identified myself 
over the phone, replied 
"Jim? Jim Vercellotti? Yeah I 
read your stuff all the time 
Jim." Maybe it isn't the fame. 
The problem-solving that 
is part of this job may be 
what makes it attractive. 
Here is a sample of some of 
the unexpected hurdles that 
may need to be crossed 
during an eveningofediting. 

•8 
p.m. -Areporter calls in to say that the energy con­servation lecture scheduled for 7 p.m. at Moreau did not take place. As a matter of fact, none of the good fathers there know anything about such a lecture. You calmly remind the reporter that the lecture was at Moreau Hall, not.Moreau Seminary. 

•10:30 
p.m. -It's two hours past deadline, and one story has yet to come in. You call the reporter's room to 


find out where the story is, and her roommate tells you that said reporter is out on "freshmen date night." Somehow, that wasn't the story that was indicated on the assignment sheet. Two hours later, a very apologetic reporter returns your call, explaining that another editor had told her not to bother writing the story. All is not lost, however. The reporter had a great time on "freshmen date night." 
•1 a.m. -The design editor reminds you that because the size of the paper had been increased by four pages during the course of the evening, you have two more pages of news to fill. Having exhausted the supply of campus and Associated Press news, you return to the wire to see ifanything new has come over since you last checked. Unfortunately, the most exciting things at this hour are the Joliet livestock prices. 
News Editor 
Insid~ Monday 
•3 a.m. -One more headline to write. Headlines are written according to the space above the news story. What's a five-letter word for inflation? 
Yes problem-solving, when it is possible, makes this job challenging and enjoyable. With such a large or­ganization, however, there will always be problems. An important part of this job is the realization that try as you might to plug all of the leaks, there will always be one or two left over. This brings to mind Math 105, where we learned that asymptotes always approach, but never reach the axis. Perhaps that is a good way to characterize The Obseroer's news department. Perfec­tion may never be reached, but we try to push the department as close to perfection as possible. 
Working with reporters is perhaps the. most impor­._..,:-1:""" tant, and most satisfying part 
of this job. I've come to 
realize that news editors are 
here primarily to pass along 
the writing know-how that 
they picked up as reporters. 
Sitting down with reporters 
and reviewing their work af­
fords us the chance to make 
suggestions about one's 
writing style and interview­
ing techniques. It is reward­
ing to watch a reporter's 
progress over the course of 
the semester, and I like to 
think that we've helped in 
that progress. 
Also, many of our repor­
ters have written in the past, 
and from time to time, they 
teach me a few things about newswriting. 
In additon, there is nothing like watching a reporter eagerly tracking down a story. Seeing someone tackle an assignment with enthusiasm and tenacity reminds me of the reason ofThe Obseroer's existence. As it was written in the first issue fifteen years ~go, The Obseroer is here to "observe, remark, notice, comment and ad­here." Through our reporters, we try to live up to those lofty ideals. 
The challenge of improving campus news coverage, as well as the rewards of working with the reporters tend to balance out the late nights, the hours that could have been spent with friends, and the struggle to keep up with classes. When I start to doubt this, I think back to occasions when I am reassured that what we are doing isn't all for naught. From time to time someone will write or remark that "The Obseroer did a good job ofcovering..." At times like that, it's hard not to like this job. 

f-The_QhserYer_ 

BOSTON CLUB MEMBERS 
Design Editor............................. Mike Monk Loogootee Lightning......... Marilyn Larkin 
IMPORTANTI

Typesetters .......................... Bridget Emmer Toni Rutherford 
meeting for any and all who want 

News Editor..................... Cathy Domanico Copy Editors ........................... Paul McGinn 
to ride a BUS home for XMAS. 

joe Musumeci 
Features Layout.............. Paul Kosidowski Sports Copy Editor........ Mark Hannuksela Typist .................................... }ohn McCarthy 
7:00 pm Monday 12/7 

Systems Control ................... Bruce Oakley ND Day Editor......................... David Grote 
LaFortune Little Theater

SMC Day Editor......; ................ Cece Baliles Ad Design ................. Fran & Corbs & Shag Pbotograpber ............................ }ohn ~acor Guest Appearances ..............................Sully Assoned BiUs Fans 

~ !!!! only meeting, 

Rickety Dave and the Consumers The infamous Cheryl E. 
and will-determine whether 
. 
we run a bus! 
Editorial Board

==~ObserYer== 
Editor-in-Chief..............................]ohn McGrath Founded November 3, 1966 
ExecutiveNews Editor.........................Kelli Flint Sports Editor ..............................Michael Ortman News Editor..................................Tim Ven:ellotti
the Observer is an independent newspaper published by the students of the Photo Editor.............................. : ........ .)ohn MacorNews Editor.............................David Rickabaugh
University of Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily 
Editorials Editor.......................Anthony Walton

SMCExecutiveEditor...........Mary Agnes Carey 
reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is report­SMCNews Editor......................Cathy Domanico Features Editor.........................Gregory Swiercz
ed as accurately and as objectively as possible. Editorials represent the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, opinions and letters are the views Department Managersof their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community, and 
Business Manager ......................~.. Rich Coppola Production Manager...................Michael Monk
the free expression of varying opinions on campus, th.rou&b letters, ii ·encoura&ed. 
Controller............................................ .)oe Mulflur Circulation Manager .............Tom MacLennan AdvertisingManager.......................Chris Owen SystemsManager...........................Bruce Oakley
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219)283-8661 
The Observer 
Outstanding performance 

Cadet receives Bronze Cross 
By MARK WORSCHEH 
\la{fR~tporter 
ltundreds of Air Force ROTC 
ctdt·t~.dres~ed in formal blue attire. 
joi1H'd thdr otfin:rs for the annual 
Dinin~·ln, held Friday night at Ccn· 
tury Centn. An inspirin~ allures~ hy 
re<.Tntly n:tirnl Chid .\taster Ser­
gt·ant James M. \1cCoy ht~hlighted 
an t'\'Cill 1hat also ~ervt·tl to honor 
\lotrt· Dame cadet jamt·s M. 
Plant· aux. 
Plant·aux, a ~enior-ycar chemical en~inl'l~rin~ major, was presented the Lt:gion of Valor Bronze Cross for achkvement in recognition of his outstanding military anti academic pt~rfurmancc in AFROTC. Cadet l'lant·aux was one of five AFROTC students sl'lectcd world-widt• to receive the awan.l. He now becomes eligible for a one-year all-expense· paid scholarship at a foreign univer­sity. 
"I'm rt,ally happy to get this, 'mainly because I'm interested in going on to graduate study,'' said l'latlt'aux. "My ultimate goal is to go on anti get a graduatt' degree. even a 
phi>." 
He called the prospect of foreign study "exciting," adding that it would "be a challenge." 
Chief McCoy spoke to tht· cadets following the prt:scntation. McCoy rdlected on the year he spent at ND as Asst. Commandant of Cadets, saying that when he learned of his assignment he thought he had "died and gone to llt'aven." 
.\k Coy called his nine momhs at ND ··probablv till' most exciting nine months of my life." 
Dallas Cowboy coat·h Tom Landry's three requirements tor success formed the ba~is of McCoy's remarks. 
"Discipline, the dcsirt• to com­pete, and the willingness to pay the price" were.~ the ingrcdknts neces­sary to succeed, according to Landry, and McCoy said these "apply to about any activity you can think· about." 
Directing his thoughts primarily towards the military, he commented on the return of a respect for dis­cipline after years of n:bdlion in the 60's and ""O's. 
"I'm happy to say that in thcst· 
recent months it's turning around, it (discipline) is coming back," said McCoy. 
Motioning toward1o the cadets, he said, ''You're the ones who want dis­cipline and national pride." 

\kCoy used the occasion to give his opinion on the recent build-up of deknses by the United States. 1-k ~aid that we arc not in competition with the Soviet linion, but rather "I'm saying wt·'rc trying to catch up. We may ncvt·r catch up, possibly." He called the strengthening of forces "long overdue." 
Concluding, McCoy told the cadets that "it's your turn to main· lain the watch of this country." 
Chief McCoy began his career as a radar oprerator in January l9S I. Following assignments at Lackland ArB, Notre Dame, and Bunker Hill ArB, he worked for the Strategic Air Command (SAC). He be<:ame SAC's first senior enlisted advisor, and worked there until 1979 when he was selected to the position of Chid Master Sergcant of the Air Force. :'1-kCoy now resides in Nebraska and works for a subsidiary of .\1utual of Omaha. 

For protection 
Solidarity demands armed guards 
WARSAW. Poland ( AP) Solidarity chief Lech Walt:sa met Opolc without permission and who Solidarity's powerful Warsaw local for 90 minutes on Saturday with 
refused to show identity cards. dcmandt~d yesterday the union train Glt:mp, Poland's spiritual leader, to its own guards to stop police raids, enlist his help in calming unionists 
and called for nationwide protests angered by the government's anti· In another such incident, agaln~t the Communist govern­strike stand. Solidarity in Olkusz, a small town in ment's plan to ban strikes. In southwest Poland, the official southwest Poland, said police "We need a program for establish· news agency PAP reported police patrols halted a group of "Rural 
ing a permanent group of worker seized 21 people who put up Solidarity" farmers from putting up guards to ensure that we are Solidarity posters in the city of posters, but made no arrests. protected in the future," said an offi­
cial of the independent union's 900,000-member Warsaw local who asked that his name not be used. 


Foreign aid plan
Solidarity's Warsaw local said the union should train squads of guards and arm them with clubs. Unit>n ac­tivists who paint slogans around the 

faces to~gh battle 

capital arc already ringed by WASHINGTON (AP) bill.
workers wearing construction Democrats arc telling the Reagan ad­Speaker Thomas P. O'Neill, 0­hardhats and bradishing truncheons, 
ministration that the president will Mass., said Reagan will have to help

presumably to fend off police. 
have to lobby personally to prevent deliver at least 100 Republican votesOfficials of the Warsaw local also the House from defeating his S I I to prevent the administration­

said such guard~ arc necessary be­billion-plus package of foreign aid backed bill from going down in
cause police harassment is increas· this week. defeat.
ing nationwide. The local ended a two-day Lawmakers of both parties are Long said he has warned Haig that meeting as Roman Catholic Arch­wary about the political consc· getting the measure through the bishop Josef Glemp urged a new qucnccs of voting to boost foreign House will demand the kind of in­"1opirit of dialogue" to solve the na­aid to more than 70 countries tensive drive Reagan mounted in tion's worsening labor crisis. around the globe at a time when October to gain Senate approval of domestic programs are being cut the controversial AWACS radar back heavily. plant· sale to Saudi Arabia. 
The Observer (USPS 598 920) 1s 
Reagan was expected to meet "It will take discipline on both

published Monday through Fnday and 
with GOP congressional teadcrs late sides and an absence of
on home football Saturdays except dunng exam and vacatiOn penods The 
today and st•nd a letter to all House demagoguery," Long said. 
Observer IS published by the students 
members urging support of the aid 

ol Noire Dame and Sa1nt Mary s Col· 
bill. Secretary of State Alexander M. In other developments coining up

lege Subscnp11ons may be purchased for $2[1 per year ($15 per semester) by 
Haig Jr. also planned to appeal for this week on Capitol Hill: wnt1ng The Observer P 0 Box 0 . 
votes while addn·ssing House A House-Senate conference com· Notre Dame. lnd1ana 46556 
Republicans tomorrow. mittee will go to work on reconcil­

The Observer tS a member of The 
"It's going to take a good deal ing dillerences between a S208. 7 

Associated Press All reproductiOn nghts are reserved 
more than just a letter," said Rep. billion dt'fensc appropriation bill 

Second class postage pa1d at Notre 
Uart•nce D Long, D-Md., ch.tirman passed b~· the Senate Friday and a Dame 1na1ana 46556 
of the Hou~e Appropriations sub­llouse bill providing about $1 I bil­committn· whkh drattcd the aid lion less for till' Pentagon. 


Monday, December 7, 1981 -page 3 


ChiefMaster Sargeantjames McCoy spoke to the Air Force ROTC unit at Friday nighfs Dining In. See related story at left. (Photo by john Macor) 
Washington D.C. Club X-mas Bus 
Sign-ups Tues. , Dec. 8, 7:30 -9:30 in LaFortune Ballroom. S70 round trip--will leave either 
Fri. , Dec. 19 or Sat. , Dec. 20 

JOIN THE MOST SOPHISTICATED 

-NUCLEAR ENGINEERING PROGRAM IN THE WORLD.
CJ • 
2 IMMEDIATE OPENINGS FOR COLLEGE 
STUDENTS WORKING TOWARD A BS!BA IN ENGINEERING. MATH.
w PHYSICS. OR CHEMISTRY. INCLUDES A FUll YEAR OF GRADUATE LEVEL NUCLEAR TRAINING AT OUR EXPENSE WITH A $3.000 BONUS UPON COMPLETION.a: • 
EARN A STARTING SALARY OF $24,100 THAT INCREASES TO OVER

<1: 
w 
$44.800 AFTER FOUR YEARS., PLUS FREE MEDICAL AND DENTAL 
CARE, UNLIMITED SICK LEAVE, THIRTY DAYS ANNUAL PAID VACATION. AND

.... 
EXECUTIVE CLUB PRIVILEGES. 
PERSONNEL WILL BE ON CAMPUS

u December 7 and 8, 1981 
or call number below

:) DEPARTMENT OF THE NAVY 
575 N. PENNSYLVANIA STREET 

2 
OFFICE 646 OPO 
INDIANAPOLIS. IN 46204 

317-269-6183 OR 1·800-382-9404 
Monday, December 7, 1981 -page 4 
The Observer 
• • . Focus 


continuedfrom page 1 

development occurs in the year 2035," he said. 
But at least four downstream states are considering lawsuits to block the project, calling it a dan­gerous precedent. 
"Iflarge quanitities of water were removed, it could threaten naviga­tion on the river," Hamon said. "And every gallon of water you remove above the main-stem dams reduces electrical power generation." 
Officials believe other industrial 
projects are waiting to see how the 
ETSI deal fares. 

Two other companies have indi­cated an interest in an additional I 6. 3 billion gallons .of water, while Exxon says 651 billion gallons of Missouri River water could be available in South Dakota for its syn­thetic fuel operations. 
"There are many programs with their eyes on the river," says Roy Downing of the Iowa Conservation Commission staff. "If they're all ap­proved, the river could be dry by the time it gets to Iowa." 
Perhaps the most ambitious project so far is a plan under con­sideration by the interstate High Plains Study Council to siphon off more than 3 trillion gallons of Mis­souri River water to irrigte farmland in Nebraska, Kansas, Oklahoma and the Texas Panhandle. 
"That's about what our winter flow is," says Donald Boyd, director 
of the Kansas City Water and Pollu­tion Control Department. "The Mis­souri River could run dry here in Kansas City." 
No federal agency oversees al­location of river water -and the . Reagan administration apparently opposes such regulation. 
Missouri Attorney General John Ashcroft has asked Interior Secretary James Watt to block the 
ETSI deal, but the secretarv is on record as supporting the project. "I think the governor Oanklow) 
pulled off a brilliant and creative suggestion," Watt said Oct. 15 in South Dakota. "I support it 100 per­cent. I think that's the way states ought to do it." 
"As long as there was enough water to go around, there was no at­tempt to allocate it," said Hamon. "But now that one state has said there's enough water to sell and get some benefit from, the sisters state~ are beginning to get serious about dividing the water so they don't lose." 

11 s~ydivers killed in crash 
HONOLlJLU (AP) -An airplane taking skydivers to a football game jump sputtered and spun into Pearl Harbor near the USS Arizona Memorial, officials said. Eleven of the 13 people believed aboard were killed. 
One man was pulled alive from the harbor by three men who saw the plane go down, and crews 
The ickest way to get 




emergency money. 

These days a trip to the college book­store can reduce your available funds to some small change. Luckily, that's about all you need to make the one phone call that can replenish your depleted funds in a couple of hours. Here's what to do: 
1•Call home. Report the situation, and tell the folks they can get emergency cash to you fast by phone. 
I.Ask them to call Western Union's toll-free number, 800-325-6000 (in Mis­souri, 800-342-6700), anytime, day.or night. They charge the money and ser­vil'Pi~ to thPir MasterCard* or VISA t card. A Western Union Charge Card Money Order, up to $1,000, will be flashed to the Western Union office or agent nearest your emergency. 
3.Pick up your money-usually within two hours-at the local Western Union office or agent. There are 8,500 nation­ally, except in Alaska. Conveniently, about 900 locations are open 24 hours. It's that easy. 
Be sure to remind your parents about our toll-free number. It's all they need to i back you up at the bookstore. · ~ 
*The MasterCard name is owned by Interbank Card Association. tThe VISA name is owned by VISA International. 

Western Union Charge Card Money Order. 
searched the waters Sunday for one person still missing. 
Aboard the twin-engine Beechcraft were members-of Jump Hawaii, a sports parachutist club. Club vice president Stephen Fischel identified two oftjlem as club presi­dent Byron Black and his son, Danny Bl ack, who was piloting the aircraft. 
Richard Rothrock, deputy public affairs officer for the Pearl Harbor Naval Base, said the Navy could not confirm how many people were in the plane. 
• Fire 
continuedfrorn page 1 

well" in informing residents of the 
fire and clearing out the building. 

Bacic also praised the hall stall but criticized the Notre Dame fire department's handling of the inci­dent. He pointed out that the firemen took the elevator instead of the :.tairs to the scene of the fire. Bacic also said that the firemen did not examine the kitchen adequately. 
Director of Fire Safety Jack Bland had inspected the kitchens recently, and was not pleased with the condi­tion~ of the ovt·ns, according to Bacic. Bacic said that the hall main­tenance staff is responsible for the upkeep ofthe kitchens. 
ftDII•..............-•••••••••••••••••••dlliiiDHUui&AI 
~ Rocco's Hair Styling aj 
531 N. Michigan St.,i 
South Bend 
Phone-233-4957 
1ft 

;.IIIIUIIII!_IUIIIIIiUIIIIUAIIIililllaulaHill............ 

6 
TRIPS 
DAILY 
Ask Your Travel Agent For The Big Bus To O'Hare 

Or Call 234-3108 
Indiana Motor Bu$ 

~----~-l 
The Observer Monday, December 7, 1981 -page 5 
At Purdue 

Soundwaves detect breast cancer 
WEST LAFAYETIE, lnd: (AP) ­High-frequency sound waves used to take pictures of body organs might be ablt: to help doctors detect brt:ast cancer more accurately and without biopsies, according to researchers at Purdue University. 
Professor Avi Kak and graduate students in Purdue's School of Electrical Engineering are trying to improve ultrasound images so breast tumors 1..·an he diagnosed as malignant or benign. 
Ultrasound imaging has an ad­vantagl..' over X-rays because the patient is not exposed to potentially harmful radiation. says Kak. 
Ultrasound imaging doesn't work <lll objects that have hone or air hut the method is well suited to detect­ing breast cancer without surgery, a1..·cording to Kak. 
In ultrasound imaging, the pictures arc taken from sound waves which either bounce otl"an object or pass through the object. Kak is studying images based on sound waves passing through the object, a process which is callcll transmis­sion. The process of sound waves bouncing off objects is called echo imaging. 
Kak says the transmission process is better than echo imaging to distin­guish a malignant tumor from a benign one. 
So far, ultrasonic images based on echos have mostly shown the shape of llifferent tissues in the breast. Al­though a foreign mass can be seen, 
, , , SMC 
continuedfrom page 1 
assembly. This type ofidea has failed 
in the past." 
Trimarchi replied, "What we are 
saying is that we want to try some­
thing and try it in this way." 
Vice President of Student Af­
fairs,Donna Perreault stated, "I am 
not convinced that you have given 
the present framework a chance. There is a lot of elasticity to work with in that framework." 
Members of the Board of Gover­nanet: will submit any amendments of the current proposal to Julia Trimarchi and further discussion of the proposal will continue next Sun­day. 
Other issues discussed at the meeting were a presentation concerning the athletic program conducted by the Directors, Erin Murphy and Tim Dillon, an an­nouncement for a Board of Gover­nance reception next Sunday, support for next semester's used book sale, and a report by Donna Perreault about the student leader­ship conference that some of the B<iard members attended over Thanksgiving Break. 
NO 
6 
Ask Your Travel Agent For The Big Bus To 0 'Hare 
Or Call 234-3108 
. Indiana Motor Bus 
the information alone makes it hard to tell whether a tumor is malignant or benign. 
Through work supported by the National Institutes of Health, Kak is developing techniques which will give hard data about different tissues in the breast. He uses a model of a female breast that is made up ofgels with properties such as sound con­duction that are similar to real breast tissue. 
Malignant and benign artificial 
tumors are inserted into the anificial 
breast. 

The breast model is suspended in a vat of water. A transmitter placed in the water-gives off high-frequeny sound waves as it moves across the tank. The sound waves, which are picked up by a receiver at the other end of the tank, are changed into elecronic signals. 
In a clinical setting, a woman would lie face down on a bag of water on a breast-scan table. 

Unanimous decision disbands Cambodian Communist party 
BANGKOK, Thailanll (AP) ­Cambodia's communist Khmer Rouge regime, driven from power by Vietnamese troops and Cam­bodian rebels in January 1979, has dissolved its Communist Party, the Khmer Rouge radio announcNJ yes­terday. 
The broadcast said the decision was made "unanimously" at a Central Committee meeting in Sep­tember but the annuncement was delayed until yesterday to gain time to inform party members. 
The Khmer Rouge had been un­der pressure from non-communist countries in Southeast Asia to enter a "loose coalition" with two non-communist Cambodian resistance factions to gain s t upport for a politi­cal settlement and withdrawal ofthe Vietnamese troops. 
Foreign ministers of the Associa­tion ofSoutheast Asian Nations -in­donesia, Malaysia, the Philippines, Singapore and Thailand -are to meet Thursday in Thailand to dis­cuss a joint strategy for supporting a non-communist Cambodian opposi­tion. 
Led by Pol Pot, Khmer Rouge guerrillas ousted an American­backed regime in 1975 and then ruled for almost four years of tur­bulence and death. Soviet-backed Vietnam claims three million Cam­bodians perished under the Khmer Rougt.• government. Western es­timates usually put the number at one million or more, with many dying during forced resettlement from cities to rural areas. The na­tion's population was estimated at 8 million when the Khmer Rouge took 
power. 

Boston club meets for 
• , 

szgn-ups 
The Boston Club of ND-SMC an­nounces an important meeting on Monday, Deumber 7.t!t, at 7:00p.m. in the Lafortune Little Theater, for any and all students who wish to ride the bus home for Christmas. This will be the only sign-up meeting, so you must attend. This meeting will determine whether or not we will be able to provide this bus service. Also, be prepared to pay in full at this time ( $1 I 0 round-trip, 560 one­
way). 


The Observer 
is looking for assistant news editors. Applications should be submitted to the Observer otfice by noon Thursday. 
e runs thru school yr. 
t;DISON & IRONWOOD 
hllrdesip fer the awan ••and w...n
f------cOuPON·------1 I STUDENT SPECIAL 
WITH 
COUPON



:10% Off
I 

I ON ALL SERVICES 
L-------COUPON------J 
@REDI<EN 
FREE HAWAIIAN VACATION 
.C...in fer de!•ils reprdill& Red ..ns S•eepstakes tNaJ. HOURS' MON.-8:30-5:00 Thln.-8:30-1:30 fri.l:l0-5:30 Sat.-4:00-4:11 
Phone 234-6767 

Professional comedians Bruce Konstant (r) and Bill Slattery work at Morrissey Hall Christmas show. Next appearing at Hyatt Regency over Christmas in Chicago. (Photo by Gonzalo Reyes) 

18461 St. Rd. 23 South Bend, call for appointment 2 77-18 75 
-shampoo, conditioner, cut style Guys-$7.00 (reg. 13.00) Girls-$10.00 (reg. 18.00) 
ATTENTION LONG ISLANDERS! 
LONG ISLAND BUS 

Leaves Sat. Dec. 19.lt1JI] 
Returns Mon. Jan. 11 $70 per person: Bring checks to: 
Frank Brady : 01 Morrissey Manor 
or other information call 3409 





Features 
Rodney earns respect at NO 

'Southern Comfort' 

Hill's losing battle 
I
n 1979 Director Walter Hill 
created quite a stir with the 
release ofhis second feature film, 
The Warriors. (Hill directed Hard 
Times in 1975.)Some critics praised 
the tilm for its choreographic treat­
ment ofgang warfare, deeming it a 
ballet ofurban violence. Others lam­
basted The Warriors as excessively 
graphic, a work ofpure physical 
violence withfew moral implica­
tions. Hill's third release, The Long 
Riders served to fuel the con­troversy over whether or not the director possessed any genuine 
talent. This film dealt with the legend ofthe]ames-Youngergangin a style best described as Philip Kauf­man (The Great Northfield Min­nesota Raid) meets Sam Peckinpaugh (The Wild Bunch). Were these the films ofan aspiring artist? Or merely the superfluous in­ventions ofan exploitive film maker? 
Walter Hill's latest effort, South­ern Comfort, makes it eminently clear that he is a fake. This is one of the most unintentionally funny movies ofrecent memory. As in his previous films, Southern Comfort provides a good degree ofsuperfi­cial titillation while lacking im­aginative substance. This time, however, Hill's vacuous direction removes all doubt as to whether he is a serious artist. 
The plot concerns a group of Na­
tional Guardsmen on maneuvers in 
the Louisiana bayou. The "Weekend 
Warriors" lose their bearings and 
unwittingly trespass into Cajun country. To complicate matters the supercilious guardsmen comandeer several Cajun canoes and attempt to ford a river. In the process the audience is tr~ated to a slow motion closeup ofthe squad leader having his brains splattered about the river, the product ofa skilled and ap­parently disgruntled Cajun trapper. The remainder ofthe film involves the platoon's attempt to return to 
civilization. Ofcourse the Cajuns have other ideas: 
The motley guardsmen represent a stereotypical assortment ofred­necks, regular military, and wise guy recruits. These characters come across as one dimensional, cardboard cut-outs; most ofthe dialogue consists of monosyllabic utterances which eventually begin to annoy any member ofthe audience who has made it through kindergarten. Hill might have made an innovative film had he eliminated the dialogue and allowed Andrew Laszlo's camera to convey impres­
. sions to the audience. Indeed, per­haps the only redeeming characteristic ofthe movie is the naturalistic, dullish green scenarios produuced by Laszlo. Yet every time a character speaks one cannot help but think that the next words will resemble those ofan old Monty Pyt­hon skit: "We're on film...." The players seem to be aware ofthe fact that they are appearing in a movie; a sense ofinsincerity permeates several individual performances. Accordiingly the texture ofthe film 
is irreparably damaged. Walter Hill does possess the ability to create adequate concep­
, tual metaphors. Unfortunately that talent is smothered beneath shallow dialogue and unnecessary camera shots. The analogy of U.S. involve­ment in Vietnam is obvioI us, but Hill does not know what to do with the analogy. The ambiguous conclusion ofthe movie serves to highlight the 

Pat Mulligan 
Movies 
director's difficulty. Hill appears -­
afraid to commit himselfto a resolu­tion. It might be argued that in the case ofsuch an analogue a resolution is uncalled for. However Hill's en­ding does not make that point clear; 
one can imagine Hill on the last day 
ofshooting turning to an assistant 
and asking, "So how are we going to 
end this?" 
The wistful contentions of Walter 
Hill enthusiasts fail to justify the in­
ept composition ofSouthern Com­fort. While the camera work sustains the audien t ce's interest throughout a good portion ofthefilm, the flaws in direction provide for numerous comical moments in a supposedly serious film. Walter Hill is not an aspiring artist. He is a two-bit com­mercial filmmaker whose im­aginative pretensions belie artistic shame. 
Mondav. December 7, 1981 -page 6 

Doctors are as dumb as the next guy 
D
octors should never talk to ordinary people about anything but medicine. Ifl were a doctor, I'd never go to another party where there were anything but other doctors present. 
When doctors talk politics, economics or sports, they reveal themselves to be ordinary mortals, idiots just like the rest ofus. That isn't what any ofus want our doctor to be. We want our doctor to be an intellectual giant who knows all about everything. We don't wanr him to be someone who has a lot ofpetty little theories about what's wrong in Washington or what play the coach should have sent in Sunday when it was third and nine on the 24. 
Saturday night I wa~ talking to a doctor at a party and he was telling me that .the nurses situation is getting desperate. "Young women just don't want to do that kind of hard work anymore," he said. "A lot of the good ones are quitting," he told me, 
~~~~tat~ee t~:: ~i!;e~~~~.?ut Another. thing, he said, was that a lot of nurses resented  mm!~t4&&iwr;.§;;;i(WiWi\,i1,\tt&¥iAndy Rooney  
doctors and often thought  
they knew as much about a  
patient as the doctor did.  
Well, first thing you know  

we were arguing about how little a nurse is paid compared to a doc­tor and how a lot of women ended up as nurses when they should have been doctors and vice versa. I won't teH you which side ofthe arguments I was on but neither of us distinguished ourselves. It was the kind ofconversation that makes me realize doctors are only mor­tal men and it's always a disappointment. I'm looking for a god in my 
doctor. 
Surgeons I meet worry me. When I get talking politics with a sur­geon who has done 150 open-heart operations, I usually wonder how he ever did it without killing the patients. It turns out he's just as dumb as I am. His opinion ofthe Reagan administration is the same as the one I heard last week from the man who runs the shoeshine stand in the station and I certainly wouldn't want the shoeshine man fooling around with my heart valves through an incision in my chest. 
Years ago my wife and I were spending the weekend in the-house­ofan old college friend ofhers whose husband was an orthopedic surgeon. One morning I started out the front door and the knob came loose. It just twisted around in my hand, so the doctor went down to the cellar to get a few tools. The doorknob was obviously on the critical list. 
All I could think, as I watched him attack the problem, was how. happy I was to be a houseguest and not apatient. He fussed with that doorknob for more than halfan hour before he got an ill-fitting set­screw in there to hold it. I'd give that doorknob another three days. Here was a distinguished surgeonwho had replaced the head of200 femurs with stainless steel balls that enabled patients to walk once again free ofpain in their hips, but he couldn't figure out how to fix that one lousy doorknob. What do you make ofthis? 
One problem medical men and women have is one we all share with them. To be really expert in our chosen field takes more than one type ofskill, and a person who as one, doesn't necessarily have others. The young medical student who masters the details of anatomy gets the best marks in his class is not necessarily manually dexterous. The dentist who has the ability ofagood cabinetmaker to put together perfect, tight-fitting parts that will hold together in a person's mouth, was not always -or probably even usually -the dental student who finished at the top ofhis class. 
Adoctor can't help it if he isn't born with dexterous hands, but if he also has a lot ofdumb opinions about the world, the least he can do is keep them to himselfso we don't get wondering about his hands. 
·-------------------~-----,
IComing this week. . . 1 
1 Tim Neely examines the year in records, including his I1 own top ten albums and singles of 1981 and Pat Mulligan II takes a look at the best movies ofthe year. Compare their II picks with yours, this week inFeatures 1 
I ... The best of '81 I 

--------------------------· 
H
ere I am in South Bend ­Whoopee, huh?" 
With these words, Rodney Danger 
field began his show at the ACC last 
night. Nearly 3500 people heard this 
comic spokesman of middle-aged 
America tell ofhis troubled life. 
Describing his genealogy, Rodney 
said, "I looked up my family tree and 
found out I was the sap. Aaah, I tell 
ya. I was able to trace my roots back 
by Mike Raab 
to a cesspool." Growing old also worries him. "I went by the cemetery the other day, and two guys with shovelsstarted running af­ter me." 
Much of Dangerfield's material came from his recent "No Respect" album. He dealt with personal sub­jects that most comics avoid, com­
plaining about everything from 
growing old to his sex life to his 
"good looks." 
"Once I stuck my head out the window and got arrested for mooning. Then the other day my doctor told me I was going crazy. I said I wanted a second opinion. He said, 'Alright, you're ugly too."' 
Rodney Dangerfield's real name is Jacob C-ohen. Born Jewish and poor in a Waspy section ofNew York City, he delivered groceries and wrote gags at the age offifteen, and by nineteen was playing the.Catskills at $12 a week. He then landed a job as a singing waiter at a Brooklyn club named the Polish Falcon, where he met another young comedian named Lenny Bruce. They spent their time together at a local drugstore, exchanging material and testing their entertainment wings. 
Dangerfield was still on the road 
playing small clubs when he met 
singerJoyce Indig. They were 
married, and Rodney, worried that 
the long weeks on the road would 
damage the marralge, dropped his 
comedy and took a job selling paint. 
Unfortunately, the marraige fell 
apart, and he raised the children 
himself. 
During the mid-'60s, Rodney put a new act together. His 1967 ap­pearance•on the "Ed Sullivan Show" launched him into a second career, and by 1969 he was a comedy star. Rodney then opened Dangerfield's, a nightclub in Manhattan's East Side, and since then, has sallied forth at his leisure. 
Jacob Cohen has come a long way from those early days in the small taverns, and now really enjoys him­selfon the stage. After his monologue, Dangerfield took ques­tions from the audience and described how he got no respect from his wife's cooking. "How can toast have bones in it?" he ex­claimed. "My wife's cooking is so bad ('How bad is it?' asked the crowd) that all the flies chipped in to buy a new window screen." 
Wcaring a white dressing gown, and appearing happy and relaxed in his dressing room after the show, Rodney said he"...enjoyed the crowd. You have great kids here." When asked what made him attempt a comeback after the years ofselling paint, he said,"I don't know. I just kind ofdecided to do it because I was getting older. Did you know," he said with a grin, "that when I 
retired the first time I was the only 
one that knew?" 
Rodney is out of retirement now 
and judging from the crowd's 
response last night, he's not the only 
one who knows. 
Mike Raab is a sophomorefrom Batavia, Illinois who doesn't get any respect either. 

'Sports Brie/§ 
lh· lhe Ohsert•er and '/he As.wdaled Press 
Big boat sailorswith racing experience on medium to large size boats are needed by the Notre Dame Sailing Club. Call Phil Reynolds at 233-3411 for more details -The Observer 
The NVA Office has announced that all interhall basket­ball players must have their insurance forms filed in the NVA Office (C-2 ACC) by 5 p.m. the day oftheir first game. All players must also remember to bring their ID's to the first-round games. -The Ob­
server 
In the Indiana State Tournament. the 
Notre Dame wrestling team placed ·fifth behind three nationally­ranked teams -Indiana, Indiana State and Kentucky. Two Irish wrestlers placed in the tournament. Pete Agostino finised third at 142-pounds, and Phil Baty was third at 167-pounds. Brian Erard "was wrestling well until a back injury forced him to leave the tourna­ment," said Coach Brotherjoseph Bruno. -The Observer 
Marcus Allen. winner of the 1981 Heisman Trophy as the outstanding college football player in the nation, thought about the amount of work he had invested in winning one of the most prestigious awards in sports. "It is indeed worth it," said Allen, the University of Southern California tailback. "I love the game. That makes it easy. I've found my place in history. Nobody can take this from me. It makes me feel proud and it's something I'll always cherish." Allen beat running back Herschel walker ofGeorgia for the award. Quarterback Jim McMahon of Brigham Young was third, followed by Dan Marino of Pittsburgh, Art Schlichter, Ohio State, Darrin Nelson, Stant<>rd, Anthony Carter, Michigan. Kenneth Sims, Texas, Reggie Collier, Southern Mississippi and Rich Dana, Yale. 
AP 
lsiall Thomas of the Detroit Pistons suffered a sprained right ankk in Saturday night's game against Milwaukee, but will pos· sibly ht· hack in anion Thursday when New York plays the Pistons in Detroit. a club spokesman said yesterday. Thoma' was among ~t·veral players who ft.-11 when Kevin Stacom ofthe Bucks drove for a basket early in tht: tourth quarter, said Bill Kreifcldt. X-ray~ taken Saturday night showed no bone fracture, bur Thomas will undergo further ..:xamination today by an Ann Arbor doctor, Krdfcldt !>aid. Thoma~ had ht·en averaging 21 points per game before Saturday's Milwauket· game. wht·rc he had only I 0 points. -.4P 
Monday, December 7, 1981-page 7 


Sportsboard 
*
-,,,,!&-'''B_A_S_K_E_T_B_A_L_L_w_·~ Wright 1-2 2-3 2 o PhoeniK 11 5 .888 1.5tb )g,,,,,,;,:; Sears 1 0-0 0·0 0 0 u Portland 12 6 '.667 1.5 200 25-42 25-30 39 12 79 Golden State 10 7 .588 3 FG Pet. .595. FT Pet. -.833. Team Seattle 10 7 .588 3 Saturday's Results rebounds -2. Turnovers -12. Assists -10 San Diego 5 12 .294 8 UCLA 50, Notre Dame 45 (Jackson 4). Technicals -UCLA Coach Far­
Saturday's Results 
UCLA (50) mer, Gray. 
Seattle 92, Atlanla 85 
M FG-A FT-A R F P Notre Dame (49) 
Philadelphia 114, New Jersey 105 Joyner 32 4-13 2-3 9 1 10 M FG-A FT-A R F P Milwaukee 111, Detro~ 108 Jones 29 3-7 0-0 6 0 6 Varner 36 3-10 0-0 5 3 6 New York 1-()3, Boston 83 Thompson 37 5-8 0-2 10 2 10 Sluby 34 3-12 2-2 3 4 8 Washington 94. Cleveland 87 Swenson 32 4-7 4-7 1 1 12 Andree 30 3-5 6-7 5 4 12 
Dallas 1 09, Denver 105 Houston 110, Portland 98 
Hegarty 23 1-3 0-0 1 2 2 Mitcheh 19 0-2 0-0 0 2 0 Phoeni•101, Utah 99 Hardy 13 2-6 0-0 1 0 4 Paxson 39 9-15 1-3 2 2 19 Golden State 138, San Diego 113 
Hanible 4 0-1 0-0 0 0 0 Rucker 14 1-1 0-0 0 0 2 Horn 9 1-3 0-0 1 1 2 Spencer 1 0 1-5 0-0 1 2 2 Yesterday's Results Eulert 10 2-3 0-0 0 0 4 Duff 10 0-3 0-1 0 3 0 Los Angeles 119, Kansas City 106 Thurston 11 0-0 0-0 1 0 Rowan 3 0-1 0-0 0 0 0 Today's Games 
200 22-51 6-12 30 8 50 Grassey 1 0·0 0-0 0 1 0 
No games scheduled 
FG Pet. .431. FT Pet. -.500. Team Love 2 0-1 0-0 0 2 0 
rebounds -3. Turnovers -16. Assists -14 Kelly 2 0-0 0-0 0 0 0 (Joyner 4) Technicals ·none. 200 20-55 9-13 18 21 49 Notre Dame (45) FG Pet. -.364. FT Pet. -.692. Team M FG-A FT-A R F P rebounds -2. Turnovers -9. Assists -8 
Katser 40 2-9 0-0 5 1 4 (Mitchell3). Technicals ·NO Coach Phelps. 
Friday's Game 
Matvey 18 2-7 0-0 2 2 4 Halftime -UCLA 26. NO 23. Officials -J1m 
Notre Dame 5, Mlaml4 Schueth 29 4-7 0-0 11 4 8 Bain (Big Ten). Bob Showalter (Big Ten), Miam1 2 2 0 -4 Hensley 23 0-2 0-0 0 1 0 Ralph Rosser (Big Ten). A-11,345. Notre Dame 2 2 1 -5 Mullins 16 2·5 0-0 2 2 4 FIRST PERIOD-Scoring -1, M, Morns. 14, 
(Wheeldon), 3:58. 2, NO, Poulin. 4, (Perry. Rothstem). 6:22. 3, M, Kirwin, 3, (Bok), 12:12. 4, NO,
Neville 17 1-4 0-0 2 2 2 
Dougherty 24 3-11 0-0 1 1 6 
Perry. 12, (Bellomy. Schmidt). 13:30. Penalties -
Crowe 4 0-0 0-0 1 2 0 
NO, Schmidt, (m1nor-hold1ng) 3:12. M. Norton, Bates 29 8-14 1-2 7 17 (minor·hookmg) 4:51. NO, Doman. (minor­
NBA 
Eastern Conference 200 22-59 1-2 31 16 45 Atlantic Division inlerference) 15:34. NO, Rothstein, (mmor-trlppmg) FG Pet. .373. FT Pet. -.500. Team W L Pet. GB 19:29 rebounds -2. Turnovers -26. AsSJsts -13 Ph1ladelph1a 15 3 .833 
SECOND PERIOD -Scoring -5, NO, Chap· man, 4. (LUCia), 3:04. 6, M, Norton, 4. (Wheeldon.
Boston 15 4 .789 5 New York 8 9 471 65
(Hensley 4) Technicals-none 
Bealon). 6:31. 7. M. Wheeldon, 9. (Morns. McChn
Halft1me-ND 23, UCLA 22. Officials· Molly 
tack), 12:09 8. NO. Pouhn, 5, (Bow1e. Schmldl),Sapp (East Lansmg). Margie Wnght (Normal, 
Washington 6 11 353 85 
14:24. Penalties -NO, Ricci, (m1nor-mterlerence) , Ill.). none. A-500 11:31 M, Bradford, (m1nor-cross-check1ng) 13:51. M. 
New Jersey 13 .235 10.5 
Central Division 
Sketchley. (m1nor-elbow1ng) 16:17
M1lwauke<> 12 6 .667 
THIRD PERIOD -Scoring -9. NO. Bellomy. 3. (Chapman), 14.46 Penaltl&s-NO. Bow1e. (minor· 
lnd1ana 10 8 .556 2 
Saturday's Results Atlanta 8 6 500 3 
Interference) :40 M. Skelchley, (minor·hlgh slicking) Detroit 8 11 421 4.5 Chicago 7 12 .368 55 9:40
UCLA 75, Notre Dame 49 
UCLA (75) 
Shots on goal: M FG-A FT-A R M1am• t2 11 6 -29 
Cleveland 4 14 222 a
F p 
Sanders 39 6-9 12-12 7 1 24 Notre Dame 7 15 3 -25
Western Conference F1elds 38 3-4 4-5 9 2 10 Midwest DIVISIOn Goa/renders -M1am1, Kodalsky. Notre Dame. Gray 26 3-8 1-4 9 4 7 W L Pet. GB McNamara A-1.474 Jackson 34 2-6 4-4 4 1 8 San Antonio 13 5 722 
Saturday's Game Notre Dame 6, Miami 4 
Denver a 9 471 4.5 Ulah 8 10 444 5 
Holton 37 7-9 0-0 3 2 14 M1am1 I 1 2 -4 Foster 8 1-2 0-0 0 0 2 
NotreDame 2 3 1 -6 Daye 1 0-0 0-0 I 1 0 FIRST PERIOD -Scoring -t 0, NO, Perry, 13. 
Houston 7 12 .368 6.5 
KansasC1ty 6 12 .353 6.5 
0
Eaton 1 1-1 0-0 1 0 2 (Bellomy, H1gg1ns). 10'58. 11. M. Rob1nson, 8.
Dallas 3 15 .167 10 Maloncon 1 0-0 0-0 0 0 0 Pacific Division M1guel 13 -1-1 2-2 0 1 4 La~ Angeles 15 6 714 See SPORTSBOARD, page 8 
The Observer will accept classifieds Mon­day through Friday, 10 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. However, classifieds to appear in the next issue must be received by 3 p.m. the business day prior to insert1on. All classifieds must be prepaid, 
Classifieds either in person or through the mail. 
HELP! ANYONE TRAVELING TO BER­look1ng for three festival or lower arena KEENAN HALL PROUDLY AN· MARY O'BRIEN would sell her soul for a GEN COUNTY. N . .P/o ROCKLAND tickets to the Fore1gner.concert. W1ll make NOUNCES THE FORMATION OF A REAL man! 
~~__NO_T_IC_ES~~~~__w_AN_T_ED__~I 
COUNTY, N.V'to N.Y.O'toor ·LONG IS­an offer. This IS a must. Call 291.0008. NEW SECTION--HEREBY TO BE LAND AND HAS ROOM FOR ONE Ask for Kevin. DENOTED AS I-SOUTH. APPLICA­Patty. Sorry about the lack of personals. MORE RIDER FOR XMASS BREAK, TIONS FOR SECTION WENCH ARE Thmgs are f1ne Kanak IS qu1ckly los1ng PLEASE CALL JIM AT 3030. (CAN BEING TAKEN A LIST.OF REQUIRE­her m1nd Lowden·s IS already gone. LEAVE AS EARLY AS FRI. 1ll'o18 AT 4 MENTS. RESPONSIBILITIES AND Hope P11t IS t1ne Only one more 
USED BOOK SHOP. HOURS WED., Need r1de Ia Cleveland tor Xmas. Please O'CLOCK P.M.) PERSONALS SALARY IS POSTED ON THE DOOR OF week then f1nals. Call you soon SAT. SUN. 9·7 CASPERSON. 1303 call John at 8450. 146 KEENAN HALL. Mon1ca BUCHANAN AD . NILES Needed: Stanley Kaplan MCAT Books 
TUTOR-part lime-tor educ. center Re­will offer $$ . Call Greg 1175 BOSTON BOUND Watch for The Soc1ety tor Creat1ve QUireS In-depth knowledge of college level E•penenced typ1s1 -reasonable ...from Taunton searching tor a nde to and Patty Hulley 1nv11es all to a Wild New Anacromam r~ght aher Christmas break! B1ology, Cham. and Physics. Seeking DESPERATELY NEED RIDE TO NEW Mrs. Bedford from for X-mas break or any place Year's party at her apartment 1n Pitts­
graduate student w1th teach1ng exp. tor YORK CITY OR LONG ISLAND. CALL 286-2107 nearby. Take me w1th you. Call Colleen al burgh. You'll have to br~ng your own bed. weekend classes beginning mld·Jan thru 
JOHN AT 1089 ANYTIME. Hours 8AM to 5PM 41-44241 Her's are already broken. (For obv1ous April. Call232·2386 bet. 10-4. reasons!) .......................................................... 
R1de needed to and from Tampa, Flonda Rock and Rollara I need two t1ckets to Ride needed to Plttsburgil'oWheeling area for Christmas. Will share e•penses and TYPING DONE ON CAMPUS BY the Foreigner concert. Call Tom "Rock HEY YOUIII SIGN-UPS FOR THE 
for Christmas. Can leave Tuesday night driv1ng. Help Please. TONY 3079 or 3070. PROFESSIONAL SECRETARY. LOW and Roll" Drouillard at 1073 11 you can WASHINGTON. D.C. CHRISTMAS or Wednesday. Call Scott at 6931 RATES, QUICK SERVICE. CALL X-help. BREAK BUS WILL BE TUESDAY. 1315. DECEMBER 8 FROM 7:30 TO 9:30PM LOST: LADIES' BROWN DEARSKIN Need ride to ATLANTA for Christmas. Need ride to New York State, Syracuse -MAGGIE AND KAREN, IN LAFORTUNE BALLROOM. COST IS GLOVES WITH RABBIT FUR LINING·· Can leave Wednesday afternoon. Call Watertown area. Share usual. Can leave NIGHTSOUNDS 105 FM 10:30 PM We ausl want you I~ know how much we $70.00 ROUND-TRIP OLD AND MENDED--NO QUESTIONS Daveat6931 1ll'ot7orpossibly 1ll'o15. Call Pal at6742 apprec1ate your concern for our moral WILL BE ASKED--288-9322 Gene Wilder and Donald Sutherland in well-bemg. But aren't rules made to be MR GREYHOUND WANTS YOU TO . . . . . . .. . . .... . . . . . ... . I need a ride to and from the Philadelplu­HOUSEMATE WANTED:OWN ROOM-START THE REVOLUTION WITHOUT broken. even No. 8? May you en;oy your RIDE THE WASHINGTON, D.C. LOST: NO CLASS RING. OUTSIDE AIIentown, PA-South Jersey-Delaware 106\oMO.& UTIL CALL289-5964 AFTER ME" semor year as much as we are. 81 &t'· 2 CHRISTMAS BREAK BUSIIII COME (you get the 1dea) area tor Christmas 
I LOST/FOUND I 
SENIOR BAR FRIDAY NIGHT NAME 5PM. 8, 9 Dec 7. 9. 11 pm in Eg Aud and 82&1>.2 SIGN·UP IN LAFORTUNE BALLROOM INSIDE IF FOUND, PLEASE CALL PHIL Whal a pleasure to laugh!" FROM 7:30-9:30 P.M. ON TUESDAY,
break. I can leave Thursday night. PERKINS AT 8338 December 17, around 6:15p.m. and can NEED RIDE TO ARLINGTON. VA. WILL I WANT TO BE AN AIRBORNE RAN­DECEMBERS.. share expenses. Call Tim at 1538. SHARE EXPENSES. PL CALL NIMMIE GER, Found: On the South Quad by Alumni and 287-6234. ATTENTION MOLARITY FANS -If you LIVE A LIFE OF SEX AND DANGER, Shirley, We're all going to miss you very the Law bwlding, a pair of glasses In a missed it the first time, Michael Molinelli's SEX AND DANGER, AIRBORNE RAN­much. Keep In touch and hurry your
Need a r~de to and from Northern N.J. tor Christmas break. Right off Route 80. Can RIDERS to return.
black glass case. Report to the OB­SEED west on 1·80 SAN first book. On the Road to Selling Out, is GER, SERVER office to cla1m them. leave Saturd11y morning. Call Mike 1181. FRANCISCO tor X-MAS. Call Bill-3160. now available in an incredible FOURTH GO TO SMC AND ... STRANGER, Mike and the Production staff 
... ......••.. ' .•............•...•. printing. and can be purchased al the KILL THE BABY IN THE MANGER . LOST: Tl-58 CALCULATOR YOU CAN'T FOR XMAS break.Will share usual, call 2 rides needed to long island tor •mas. Notre Dame bookstore. Also still available MISS IT: CRACKED DISPLAY. IF Doug at 8310. call Mary Beth at 4543. ( SMC) is the most recent Molarity release. Don't Katie and Doris, Recent surveys show FOUND PLEASE CALL 277-7794 MY Maka a Right, another e•traordinary that everybody had a great lime on CAREER AS AN ENGINEER DEPENDS Jumper Press publication. Both books Friday, but the results may have been In­
IN DIRE NEED OF RIDE TO ON. make a great Christmas gih, and are only Holiday Inn fluenced by the tacl that those surveyed
SYRACUSE. NY AREA FOR XMAS ......................................... $2.95. Get them now, before they're all the smell of fish. the taste of chernes were completely drunk out of their minds. 
BREAK Ill Can leave Dec. 19, will share FOUND: DETEX CARD IN THE OB­GONEIIIIII Film at II
IL-..-_F_o_R_sA_LE_]
usual. Call STEVE at 8317. 
SERVER OFFICE. COME IN AND IDEN­DEAR FEATURES EDITOR, The Survey Taker TIFY NUMBERS. SAY HAPPY HOLIDAYS AND SHOW I don't do thaH allly all-nlghlar thlnga
I NEED A PLACE TO STAY NEXT SEMESTER.(..AERO) PLEASE CALL su.RP'i.'us JE.iiPs. C::.\Rsi rRuci<s HER THAT YOU CARE WITH A BOU· for fullt anyone, you know. And, 277-7794 Car-inv. value $2143 sold tor $100. For 
QUET OF FLOWERS DELIVERED ballave me, It Ia axpanalve. Ara you Ort1, Don't be a stranger. Good luck. And EACH WEDNESDAY FOR 4 WEEKS. prepared to pay? Shall wa negotlllta? remember. in my heart. you'll always look (WE CAN BREAK FOR XMAS BREAK A VERY TIRED PEEP like hell. 
information on purchasing similar bar­
allanta atlanta atlanta gains, call 602-941·8014. e•t. 3648.
FOR RENT 
OR WILL DELIVER IF YOUR LADY IS Prod Thursday night· and would like Ia return ........................................ 
I need ride to and from. I can leave Phone call refundable. 
STAYING ON CAMPUS. IN TOWN. DEAR TIRED PEEP, ....... ............ evenluaHy. No hurry though. T t ake me Have 3 basketball ticket packages tor 
WEDNESDAYS FLOWERS 289-1211. All with tha aweap of my wand (and my .... ,...... ....... FOR NEXT SEMESTER HOUSE AND alde-klcka moneyI) T1m, Have a good t1me 1n London Don't
with you! Call Jeb 664911tlanta atlanta at-sale. Lower arena. Best otter. Sell in­APARTMENTS 234·2626 lanta dividually or logether. Call Mike or Tad at ~~~~~~ii~r~~~-~:~~~~~iaiir Af7.: FEATURES EDITOR target to classes. Hope to see you up here 1181. 
next year. Ne•t Sem. Housemate $80 ll'om incl. all .................... M1keM . 
ATTENTION N.D. MEN:Stopby737 P E. The He Man Woman Haters Club w1shes or call4530 and wish MIMI HALEY a hap­
utll. 233-3552 FOURTH FEMALE ROOMMATE FOR SALE: 75 watt stereo rece1ver wrth .......................................... NEEDED FOR TWO BEDROOM equalizer, tape deck, and pa1r of to take this t1me and space to honor our py 19th birthday. She will be accepting 
founders, Spanky, Alfalfa, and Buck­kisses, flowers, candy. alCohol. dales, Mon1ca the Goose Girl, How's the Farmer 
WANTED 1 MALE ROOMMATE TO CAMPUS VIEW AAPARTMENT. CALL speakers. Call Cecil Rucker at 8223. 
SHARE CAMPUS VIEW APT 2ND wheat. We also would like to gnmace w1th room keys. or any other appropriale gih Boy? Are you go1ng to lend the geese tor SEMESTER. 120.06bMO. TRADITION­mutual disgust at the memory of the first this week only. (Did I geteverylhmg riyhl. him when you're marr~ed? And if you ever 272·1661. 
THANK YOU FOR SALE Boston·Ch1cago stand-by a1r ticket $100. Call237-4318 
AL PARTY APT. DON'T CALL UNLESS TWO ROOMMATES NEEDED FOR threat 10 our He-Manliness, Darla Hood. Mimi?!?!) You're a great room1e: have fun! want to get the weekly award you're gomg YOU'RE A REAL CHARACTER. 277-HOUSE ON NOTRE DAME AVENUE. who would make a good ND-SMC type to heve perform a heck of a lot better than 0617 these days. you did last night. 
CALL 232·830 1 . Sony STRV45 Dig1tal Receiver, 40 WPC. 
presented as a hlstoric8i service Cheer up and think about the Rhode Is· Prod27S.otter. Call Kammie, 288-1306. 
N.D. Ave Apts. has furniShed apts. Ride needed to and from OMAHA tor by the He-Man Woman Haters club land beaches in summert1me. 
available. Call234-6647 Xmas break. Can leave anyt1me: will share usual. Call Kamm1e 288-1308. 
The BOSTON CLUB will have an impor­Goodbya Bhlrlay, I'll look for you on TV Hola Ana VA TACO Teesh ..................... NEED THIRD ROOMMATE STARTING tant meeting for any and all who wis to lit Pauley when NO playa U.C.(u In THANKS to lhe girls tor the fudge pie. BE .
TICKETS · take the BUS home tor XMAS. This IS the !*)LA.,Rich Gawd-Do I ever feel stupid now· MILLER APARTMENTS, ONLY 126bmonth plus only meeting, so you MUST attsnd. MON· 
NEXT SEMESTER---CASTLE POINT NEED RIDE FOR 1 OR 2 TO CENTRAL 
FLORIDA FOR CHRISTMAS BREAK. alec CALL LARRY OR MIKE AT 277-FLORIDIANS PLEASE HELP! CALL DAY, 1ll'o7, 7:00PM, LaFortune Little I-SOUTH Keenan -watch that Cynthia ................................... 3308. Theater. Bring cash or ceck tor full stuff a concerned friend For a good time call 1409-AND HANG 
DONNA (2734) OR MIKE (277·3306) I need TWO FOREIGNER TIX. Will pay 
payment-$110 roundtrip, $60 one-way. UP! THE MYSTERY CALLER FROMgood$$. Call Joe at 1200. 
LEWIS.. . ................................. . 
The Observer -Sports Monday, December 7, 1981-page 8 
• • • leers 

The lead was short-lived, 
continuedfrom page 7
however, as Poulin picked up the puck at his own blueline and skated through three Miami defenders to 
Thursday's Results 
(Lukas. Sketchley). t6:5t. t2, Nd. Rothstein, 8. (Regan, Poulin), t8:55. Penalties -NO, Perry, 
Houston 17. Cleveland 13 beat Kodatsky on a breakaway just (minor-elbowing) 8:42. M, Corrigan. (minor-slashing) two minutes after the Redskins had 11:05. NO, Chapman. (minor-slashing) 11:05. M, 
Yesterday's Results 
Wheeldon, (minor-delay of game) 17:06. 
gone ahead. Green Bay 31 . Detroit 17 
N.Y. Giants 10. Los Angeles 7 SECOND PERIOD -Scoring -13, Nd, Chap­Chicago 1 0. M1nnesota 9 
Both teams missed goal-scoring man. 5. (Higgins), 1:42. 14. NO, Higgins, 2. (Bellomy, Miami 24. New England 14 Brown). 8:20. 15. M. Lukas. 5. (Block, Sketchley), St. Louis 30, New Orleans 3 
opportunities in the third period, as 
12:00. 16. ND. Rothstein, 9. (Schmidt, Bowie), 14:26. Washington 15. Philadelphia 13 . 
both goaltenders rose to the occa­Penalties -NO. Regan. (mmor-hooking) 9:26. M. San Francisco 21. Cincinnati 3 Kirwin, (minor-interference) 13:07. NO, Brown. Dallas 37, Baltimore 13 
sion successfully aside from Bel­
(minor-interference) 16:02. NO, Schmidt, (minor­Buffalo 28. San Diego 27 
lomy's gamewinner. charging) 19:12. Tampa Bay 24, Atlanta 23 Denver 16, Kansas City 13 Seattle 27. N.Y. Jets 23 
The Irish will travel to Northern THIRD PERIOD -Scoring -17, M. Lukas, 6, (Kirwin. McClintock), 6:42. 18, M. McMillian. 2.
Michigan for games on Thursday and 
(Robinson, Beaton). 16:45. 19. NO, Poulin, 6. Friday nights before breaking until (unassisted), 19:53. Penalties-NO. Regan, (minor­tnpplng) 4:35. M. Bench. (minor-too many men,
December 29-30 for the Great Lakes 
served by Kuraly) 12:49. M, Beaton. (minor-cross­Invitational Tournament, held an­checking) 14:13. M. Block, (m1nor-charg1ng) 16:59. 
• • • Women 
ND. Schmidt, (minor-face-mask) 19:09. NO. Bellomy. (minor-roughing) 19:09. M. Kuraly. (minor-roughing) 19:09. NO. H1gg1ns. (m~nor-slashmg) 19:15. 
nually in Detroit. 
Conference play will resume for Shots on goal: continuedfrom page 12 
Miami 6 11 10 -27
Notre Dame on January 15-16 when 
Notre Dame 12 10 17 -39 test, "so conditioning will have to bethey travel to Ann Arbor for a series Goaltenders -M1ami, Che"ier. Kodatsky Notre 
a priority with us. They might have
Dame. Laurmn. A -1.687
with the Wolverines. _ been one or two players deeper than us, but I think the difference is that they've been in games like this . before. This was an excercise for us. 
"You know," she said, "it's OK to make a mistake. The thing is ­never make the same mistake twice. Now that we know what it's like, we'll be in better shape the next time around. 
"Now, I've got to go sit down. I'm tired." After that performance, both coach and squad deserved the rest. 
IRISH ITEMS -Bates, a native of Kansas City, Mo., was the game's leading scorer with 1 7 points ... Freshman Mary Beth Schueth was once again Notre Dame's leading rebounder, hauling in 11 ... Swen­son, one of three Bruins in double figures, finished with 12 points, while Joyner and center Necie Thompson added 10 each . . . The meeting between the Irish and the Bruins was the first ever between the two schools, and DiStanislao hopes to turn the game. into an on­going series . . . Freshman Ruth Kaiser played the entire 40 minutes of Saturday's game ... As she did in the season opener, DiStanislao twice had her five scholarship freshmen on the floor at one time . . . And finally, from the "Laughter is the Best Medicine" catagory: Mr. Richard Matvey, father ofjunior cen­ter Shari, was in the stands when, with 0:01 left in the game and the Irish trailing by five, DiStanislao called timeout. Said Matvey: It better be a helluva play." 

~ 
continuedfrom page 12 small crowd of 1,474. Bellomy took a pass from fresh­In fact, their performance may well man Brent Chapman and beat have been the best weekend that any Redskin goaltender Dan Kodatsky line has had for us thus far this year." on the glove side to salvage the vic· And while the Bellomy line rightly tory for the Irish. The Irish were earned the plaudits ofSmith,the con­forced to play outstanding defensive sistency of Rothstein continues to hockey for the last minute and a half speak for itself. His seven-goal, 20-as the Redskins pulled Kodatsky in 
point totals for the CCHA are high favor of a sixth attacker and put for the Irish, as are his five pressure on the Notre Dame goal. powerplay goals. And indeed, it was "Both teams played bdow their 
one ofthese extra man scores which capabilities, but I was pleased to see sent Chevrier to an early shower and our boys do a good job at the end," Notre Dame to a 5-2 second period 
Smith said after the contest. "I'd lead and eventually the win. 
rather play sloppy and win than playIn Friday's game, Bellomy 
good and lose." provided the margin with a goal at 
Junior Bob McNamara drew the the 14:46 mark of the third period, starting goaltending assignment, and and the Irish won their tirst game in 
after a shaky first period, responded as many tries against Miami before a 
with a steady game. ''I wasn't


-······j·········llli!Uilli.. 
I!.J!!I!YP
.• "'l;t~,l!-11111!21!!il!!)&&!ti!!I&I!!."':!!'"!II!W!I,.!'!JILWJM 

Irish co-captain Dave Puolin is caught here just seconds away from scoring his fifth goal of the season, a pretty backhand shot that hit the crossbar andfell in the goal. Poulin circled behind the net with the puck before scoring the goal. (Photo byjohn Macor) 
~ 
~ 
! 
i 
:i 

THEROADTOA COLLEGE DEGREE IS EXPENSIVE 
AIR FORCE ROTC 
~CAN PAVE THE WAY 
There are a lot of scary stories about the cost of college education these days. Many high school students aren't planning to attend college because they don't have the money. BUT WAIT! Air Force ROTC can help. With our scholarship programs, we will pay for your college tuition, books, along with certain fees AND pay you $100 per month for living expenses. 
After you receive your degree you'll be eligible for a commission as an Air Force officer. If you can qualify, Air Force ROTC can mean a college degree and a brighter future for you. Find out more. For your country and yourself, make Air Force ROTC a part of your plans. Contact: 
Capt Gottrich, 283-6635, ROTC Building 
Gotew'Jy too great way of life. 

surprised I was playing," McNamara said. "I felt a little shaky at first, but after the first period I felt great." 
Miami's Steve Morris opened up the scoring at 4:51 ofthe first period with a powerplay goal that bounced off Irish defenseman Jim Brown's skate and into the Notre Dame goal. 
After a slow start that saw the Irish go five minutes without a shot on goal, Poulin tied the game on a tip-in of a perfrectly placed pass from linemate Bill Rothstein. But Miami winger Mike Kirwin put his team on top again at 12:12 of the period with a twenty-foot blast past McNamara's glove. 
Notre Dame'sJeffPerry ended the first period scoring at 13:38 by banking a goal line shot off Kodatsky's back to tie the game at 2-2. 
The Irish controlled the second period, outshooting the Redskins 1'5-9, but were unable to keep a lead. Chapman banged in his own rebound during a scramble in front ofthe net to give Notre Dame its first lead at 3:04 ofthe period. 
The Irish continued to put pressure on the Miami goal through­out the first five minutes but could not come up with another tally. 
Mike Norton tied the score for Miami, tipping a shot from defen­seman Kevin Beaton into the top of the net. Less than six minutes later, Miami took the lead for the third time, as Wheeldon capitalized on some shabby Notre Dame defensive play for a goal from close range. 
., • .c· -..:·~ ----·· 
-Freshfnan Susan Neville from Decatur, Ala., goes airborne to deliver this pass in Saturday's thriller against UCLA. Defending is Susie Swenson and an unidentified Bruin player. 
• • • Sportsboard 
The Observer -Sports Monday, December 7, 1981-page 9 
Saint Mary's splits two in Goshen 
By DAVE WILSON 
Sports w·rtter 
Thc Saint Mary's basketball tt·am picked up a victory and a loss at the Goshcn Classic this pa'it weekend, boosting their rccord to 3-2 for thc young season. 
Tht: Belles will face the Irish 
tomorrow night at 7:30 p.m. in 
the ACC. Saint Mary's coachJerry 
Dallessio was asked to comment 
on the upcoming annual cla'ih. 
"Notre Dame has become a 
very big and talented team since 
moving into Division 1," he said. 
"They're good inside and they 
can rebound, so we're going to 
havc to concentrate on cutting 
offthis part of their game. 
"You have to remember that 
we're only Division Ill ourselves. 
We should give them a good 
game, but we can't expect too 
much." 
Friday night the Belles dropped a close contest to powerhouse Franklin, 63-58. Considering that the team was down by eleven points after 20 minutes, and by seventeen early in the second half, the final tally reveals little about the actual game. 
"We just had a lousy first half," 
said Dallessio. "They ran a fast-
paced offense, and we got caught 
up in it. That l·aused turnovers, 
and turnovers ruined our game. 
"I thought our defense was solid all the way, and we did get our act together in the second hal( but by then, we just had too many points to make up." 
Anne Armstrong and Lisa Schirz led the Belles in scoring with I4 points apiece, while Mis­sy Van Ort pulled down I I rebounds and Mary Baykss had 1 I assists. 
Saint Mary's returned on Satur­day' afternoon to destroy Tri­State University 74-49, their second viCtory over this op­ponent this season. This time Van Ort led in scoring with 1 7 points, while Armstrong helped with I 2 points, Schirz with 8 rebounds, and Bayless with 8 assists. Gretchen Meyer returned from the injured list to contribute 9 points. 
"It was a bigger victory than I expected," said Dallessio, "because we lost the night before, and we already beat Tri­State by 30 this season. Our defense was good again, and we were able to slow down our game and thus cut down on our turnovers. I hope we can be this much in control against Notre Dame on Tuesday." 
IMMEDIATE OPENINGS TO TRAIN FOR MEDICAL LABORATORY WORK 
Training includes theory and practical "xperienrt'. A variety of specialities is available. Good pay and benefit~ while you train. Up to 30 days vacation annually. 
Call Army Opportunities: 
! .............................. ie 
• ARMY -Be All You Can Be !
. . 
iC iC ' 
At the Rock 
ND swimmers capture title 
By LOUIE SOMOGYI 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame men's swimming 
team opened up its 1981-82 season 
in impressive fashion this past 
weekend at the Rockne Memorial 
Pool. 
The Irish opened up by winning 
its own six-team invitational on 
Friday night and followed up with a 
61-41 dual-meet triumph over Ferris 
State on Saturday night. 
After losing some key performers 
from last year's squad. the Irish will 
he hard pressed to match last year's 
9-3 record and third place finish in 
the Midwest Invitational (the team's 
best-ever finish in the Invitational). 
Nevertheless, the return of 14 letter­
men and this weekend's perfor­
mance does provide optimism for 
senior co-captains Don Casey and 
john Gibbons. · 
"Coming into these meets we had 
some unanswered questions about 
this team," says Casey, "And I think 
we answered them positively. It still 
is early to tell how good we can be, 
but I would say that we are in the 
same league of competitiveness and 
talent as last year's team." 
Depth is the key word cited on 
this year's team of 31 swimmers. 
"We have events where there really isn't much seperatiot'l in talent between the first, second or third men in that event," notes Gibbons. "That is going to be a positive factor for us since we can keep pushing each other for better perfor­mances." 
Head Coach Dennis Stark agrees on the depth assesment as he states that the closc competition between team mcmber~ can lead to a very competitivc squad this year. Th~ position that he feels nc.eds morc work t()r now. thuugh, is the dt"pth in thc freestylc sprint~. 
The top position in the sprints is nothing to worry about. however, as the I<)HI reccpit:nt ol the first Ed· ward Krause "l\lalc Athlete of the Year" award at Notre Dame, Mike.: Shepardson, returns for hi~ st·nior campaign. Shepardson picked up from where he left off last year with first place finbhes in both the SO­yard (:22.2) and 100-yard (:49.3) freestyle events on Saturday. 
Other first place finishers for the Irish on Saturday included the 3:46 time posted by the 400-yard medley relay consisting of junior Glenn Battle, senior John Willalllowski, Casey and sophomore:: Al H.uding. The 200-yard freestyle was '·on by Harding with a time of I :46.6 while junior Gary Severyn won ZOO­yard individual medley wit .t time:: of2:02.7. 
Also, junior Louis Bow•·rsox's time of2:07.09 in the 200-yanl back­stroke was tops in his event. Junior Paul McGowan· won the meter diving with 257.94 tota· :Joints while freshman teamm;. John Hirschfield took top honLi in 3· meter diving with 207.Y.i total points. 
What stood out in the .nind of Stark the most, however, was Casey's winning time of 1 '>2.26 in the 200-yard butterfly. Not only did it crush his previous best time of 
I:5 7.4 set last year, but as Stark said, "The very fact that he was able to swim below two minutes this early in the season is quite impressive. 
"AI Harding's effort in the 200 is also very pleasing," continued Stark, "The backstroke performances gave me encouragement too since we lost some key people there." 
Led by four first place finishes, the Irish were able to win the Notre Dame Invitational Relays on Friday night. The 94 team points by the Irish were enough to hold offsecond place Wisconsin-Stevens, which !icore~ 87 points. 
Sophomore Tim Jacob, Harding, Severyn and Shepardson took first place in the 400-yard freestyle relay, ... while thl· 400-yard individual med· ley relay winners consisted ofBattle, sophomore Mark Staublin, Casey and Severyn. Shepardson, Gibbons, freshman Tim Bohdan and Battle comprised the winning 200-yard breaststroke team, and Severyn, junior Mike Hilger (who had a fine second place finish Saturday in the 1000-yard freestyle), Jacob and Har­ding won the 800-yard freestyle relay. 
"It is too early to rate this team yet, but I feel that the question marks have been answered to a cer· tain extent," concluded Stark. 
The next meet for the Irish will be tomorrow at Western Michigan. The swimmers will not have another meet after that untilJanuary I 7. 
... 


Driessen set to start for Reds in 1982 
HOLLYWOOD, Fla. (AP) -Dan 
Driessen. who asked the Cincinnati 
Reds to trade:: him lao;t season, 
probably will start at first ba'iL' for 
Cincinnati on Opening Day I 9H2, 
club Presidelll Dick Wagner sap•. 
Wagner. who i~ attending rhe an­nual winter baseball meeting~. said over the wt·ekend that he has no in­tcntwn of trading till" shck·lielding firM basnnan. who temporarily lost hi~ JOb to Johnnv Bench last scason. 
' Dan Driesst·n is basically the first baseman and· I think hL·'ll probably opL·n at first ba~e ior us in 1982," \X'agncr said. "It is not in our bask scheme to talk about trading Dries· sen." 
Driessen hit .236last season. Reds Manager John McNamara ·inserted Bench at first base when Driessen was injured early in the season, and Bench's hot hitting kept him in the lineup. 
Driessen then said that he wanted to bt· traded and didn't change his mind whl·n Bench frat·tured hb ankle before the playns went on strikt· in the middle of the season. 
But  Wagnn  ha~  maintaint·d  
throughout  that he  won't  tradt·  
Drit·sst·n.  

"You have to think ofthL· fanor of ddenst· and overall tL·am spt·t·d,"Wagner said. "Johnny Bench Hts in in a number ofways ...But he has to win a job." 
Bt·nch askt:d last season to catl·h no more than two gamt·s a week. He went to spring training hoping to win anoter starting role. Apparently, he will be in the same position again next March, bar~ing any significant roster changes. 

Someold-fashioned reasonsto spendthe holidaysat our house. 
._,vMarvel at old-fashioned deco­rations from our special house decorat­ing contest. 
._,... See a spectacular gingerbread house created by Chef Ray. 
•vHelp us make this Christmas spe­cial for everyone by contributing at Tip­
~ Cnnlmt•ntal ~t'Siilllntlll S~·slt'lll!l, \~HI 
pecanoe Place to the Marines' Toys for lots program. 
•vSee our fabulous Christmas tree in the Grand Hall beautifully decorated by community groups. 
So start a new tradition for your family this season. Come home to Tippe­canoe Place for the holidays. 
Special Holiday Events This Week • Tues., Dec. 8, 3 p.m. Chef Ray Bcrtschy demonstrates how to make ChriMmas cookks and edible decorations. Recipes will be given. Class is free, but limited to 15. Sign up now. •·~Tues.,Dec. 8, 6:30p.m. Niles High School students sing Christmas carols on Grand Hall Steps . ._,... Thurs., Dec 10 thru Dec. 24 Wassail Bowl in the Grand Hall. Join us in a toast to a happy and hL·athy holiday season. Frl'l· to the public. ._,.,Sat., Dec. 12, 10 a.m.­1 p.m. Muscuhtr Dystrophy Charity Tour and Awards Presentation. S2 a tick· ct. Dcmon~trations in variou~ form~. -­ 

Be sure to lopk for t!Jis ad announcing our weekly event of the season. 

620 W. Washington, South Bend, 234-9077 Reservations available. 
.. 
.. 

The Observer Monday, December 7, 1981 -page 10

AlbUIIISa 

Casselles 
6.44
PICTURED ITEMS ONLY. 
THE STEVE MILLER BAND Circle Of Love 
featuring Heart Like A Wheel Get On Home 
0 0 
0
Baby Wanna Dance ° Circle Of Love 
Macho City 
Givethegift ofmusic. 
't 

The Observer---~=-.. ­


T0 da~===============M=o+n=d=ay='=D=e=c=e=m=b=e=r.=7='=1=9=8=1==p=ag=e=l=ll 
Molarity 





The Daily Crossword 

©1981 by Chicago Trlbune-N.Y. News Synd. Inc. All Rights Reserved 

YOU KNOW J.IOW P£0F'LE 6;0 TO 1H£ GFfOTTO I DONATE. A DOLLAR AND 1..-luiiT A CA/JDL£ FoR THE/If 6F!:CIAL 
lXJN'TIIJO/l/l.Y, G//?JS, 6RE:AT1 ~SPffCf/15 WHAT'S ALR&APY (j(JAR­7H& CfJN5!7· ANT£!3[) BY 7H!3 TI/T/ON? 
CONSTITI/T!ON. I 
Michael Molinelli 

tJ£LL, J: FIGI.Jf?ED rDR 
EACH CA/1/DL£ I BLOW (JJT 
J C.OULP iAKE A j)OLLAf(.. , 
Garry Trudeau 
12/7/81 


ACROSS 30 Dapper ­
1 Heavy club 33 Oahu dance 5 Social 34 Cheerful, 
division In England 10 Detect 35 Samuel's 14 Cut-mentor 
(dance) 36 Russian 15 Negative mountain particle range 16 Dies-37 Repugnant 17 Condition 36 Obstacle 
of no mercy 39 Raced 20 A Hunter 40 Clerical 21 Iridescent vestments 
gemstone 41 Small 22 Expels suffix 23 Fire 42 Influenced 
remnant 43 Chinese 25 Zoroastrian Island 27 Profession 44 Wool 29 Vlkkl of embroidery 
song 46 Split 
Friday's Solution 
1zma1 
Campus 
•9:30-4:30 
p.m. -UNICEF Card Sale, Saie of Christmas cards and gifts, Memorial Library Con­course, Sponsored by Ladies of Notre Dame 

•4 
p.m. -Colloquium, "A Pythagorean Tonal Genesis", Professor Calvin M. Bower, Notre Dame, Crowley Hall, Sponsored by Music Department, All are welcome 

•7 
p.m. -Meeting, ND/SMC Boston Club, LaFortune Little Theatre 

•7 
p.m. -Chistmas Program, Saint Mary's Col· lege Christmas Caroling Program, Regina Lounge, All are invited ' 

•s 
p.m. -Basketball, ND men vs. Murray State, ACC 

•8 
p.m. -Lecture, "On What Can We Rely? A Christian Orientation In A Disoriented Society", Rev. Hans Kung, Swiss Theologian, Professor at West German University ofTubingen, Washington Hall, Sponsored by Theology Department, All are welcome 


Television Tonight 
MONDAY, December 7 
7:00p.m. 
7:30p.m. 
8:00p.m. 
8:30p.m. 9:00p.m. 
9:30 p.m. 
10:00 p.m. 
10:30 p.m. 
11:00 p.m. 
11:30 p.m. 
12:00 a.m. 
12:30 p.m. 
16 MASH 22 CBSNews 28 Joker's Wild 46 Believer's Voice OfVictory 16 All In The Family 22 The Christmas Raccoons 28 Tic Tac Dough 16 Uttle House On The Prairie 22 Private Benjamin 28 That's Incredible 34 Great Performances 46 Lester Sumrall Teaching 22 The Two Of Us 46 Blackwood Brothers 
16  NBC  Movie:  "Child  Bride of Short  
Greek"  
22  MASH  

28 Monday Night Football: Pittsburgh at Oakland 
46 Today With Lester Sumrall 
22 House Calls 
34 Presenting Karen Akers 
22 Lou Grant 
34 The American Folk Painters 
46 Jimmy Swaggart Dally 
34 Christmas Special with Luciano Pavarotti 16 NewsCenter 16 22 22 Eyewitness News 34 The Dick Cavett Show 46 Praise The Lord 16 Tonight Show 22 Quincy and Harry-0 34 Captioned ABC News 28 Newswatch 28 46 Lester Sumrall Teaching 16 Tomorrow Coast To Coast 28 ABC News Nightline 46 Blackwood Brothers 

Today in History 
Today's highlight in history: In 1941, japan bombed Pearl Harbor, sending 
the United States into World War II. On this date: In I 91 7, the United Stat declared war on Austria­
Hungary.:.. In 1974, Archbishop Makarios returned to Cyprus after five months in exile, sayng he would pardon those who had plotted his overthrow. And in 1979, militants occupying the U.S embas­sy in Tehran reaffirmed their demand that the ousted Shah be returned to Iran as a condition for the American hostages" release. Ten years ago: An unmanned Soviet space capsule was sending radio and television signals back from the planet Mars. 
.... 
48 New Zealand 
native 49 Book part 51 Troubles 52 Dixie 
school letters· 55 Twoof 
fifty 59 Solar disk 60 Formal 
poetic 
tribute 61 Part 62 French 
father 63 Repaired 64 Poker money 
DOWN 1 Placeof 
trade 2 Scope 3 Dixie 
waterway 4 Conceit 5 Golfer 
Billy 6 Lend­
(llsten) 7 Window part 8 Digit 9 Naval man: 
abbr. 10 Head cavity 11 White House 
name 12 Kiln 13 Hardy girl 18 Garment 19 Wordof 
regret 24 Repast 25 Trousers 26 Chl·chl 27 lll·bred 
one 28 Nimbi 29 Famous 
batsman 31 Winglike 32 Actor 
Bruce 34 Type of fowl 37 Alaskan town 38 Fortune 
teller 40 Collapsed 44 Made water· 
tight 45 Painter 
Bonheur 47 Senseless 48 Small fly 49 Typeof 
cookie 50 Fountain In New Orleans 51 As strong 
as­53 Season 54 Certain 
plaintiff 
56 Pershing's men: abbr. 57 Movie star 
MacGraw 58 FOR agency 
• 
BUT WHAT DOES THE STUDENT UNION RECORD STORE HAVE FOR ME? 
CHEAPER PRICES PRICES··· Save 24-32% off list prices! MOST CURRENT SINGLES-$6.50 (compare at S8.99 list). Cut-outs•..$2.98 to S5.98 
CONVENIENCE...The NDStJ Record Store is located on the Main floor of LaFortune and is open 10-4 PLUS-ordered albums take 1 week only! 
GREAT SELECTION•••Springsteen, Fogelberg, Moody Blues, Stevie Nicks, Cristopher Cross, Pat Benatar, Journey, and many more. 
ALSO...recorded and blank tapes available. 
SO...for CHEAPER PRICES, MORE CONVENIENCE, and a GREAT SELECTION stop by the S.U. Record Store today'!! .. a a a a a a 0 




Monday, December 7, 1981 -page 12 
Inexpertence showed 
'Circus maximus' indeed 
By SKIP DESJARDIN UCLA's depth, and its talent. It is "Andree did some things today • Associate Sports Editor staggering to think that the Bruins never thought I'd see him do inside," dismantled Notre Dame in such a Phelps said in the post-game press 
Thirteen years ago today, Notre fashion without Cliff Pruitt, who's conference. "He had a great game, Dame~s Athletic and Convocation on suspension for four games for and is coming along well after his in­Center was opened. The center­playing in an umauthorized summer jury." 
piece-of a week-long celebration league. They whipped Notre Dame Andree, who says his injured leg is called "Circus Maxim us" was a game with Darren Daye sitting on the feeling better every day, also hit a between UCLA, chasing the second bench for all but the last I :26, and surprising 6-of-7 free throws. 
ofwhat would be seven consecutive with AU-Everything Rod Foster For UCLA, Mike Sanders was the national championships, and Notre seeing action in only the last seven steadying force. He hit all 12 of his Dame. Over one hundred newsmen minutes of the first half, plus an in­foul shots, as well as banking in 6-of­were on hand, and a national televi­cidental minute late in the game. 9 from the field. His 24 points led all sion audience watched from their "They have a lot of quality scorers. living rooms. players," Phelps admitted. "They al­"I work on foul shots every day in 
Lew · Alcindor and Lucius Allen ways seem to have great personnel. practice," the only Bruin senior said. each scored 21 points in that game This year is no exception." "I just went out there, and and, despite Austin Carr's 26 points, Contrarily, there were few bright pretended I was at practice. I just the Bruins defeated the Irish, 88-75. spots for the Irish. shut out everything that was going 
Saturday, Notre Dame sufferred Frontliners Tom Sluby, Bill Var­on around me and concentrated on its worst home defeat since the ACC ner, Barry Spencer and Cecil Rucker making the shots." was opened, and again the culprit were 8-28 from the field, and pulled Also a surprise was the play of 
was UCLA. down just 9 rebounds between guard Michael Holton. He beat out "Our inexperience really showed them. With the exception of John Foster for the starting position, a today," said Digger Phelps after the Paxson, Irish guards fared even move UCLA Head Coach Larry Far­
75-49 thrashing. "Some ·people 
mer says was for defensive purposes, aren't into their offensive game yet, 
and contributed 14 points to the
Inside Sports 
Bruins' third straight win over Notre as a team. 
and we still need some time to grow 
Dame. "We aren't getting offensive 
Swimmers -page 9 
"Playing for UCLA is a dream rebounds, and we aren't hitting our 
come true," said Holton afterward. foul shots." 
"I just want to play, and it doesn't Those two points were painfully 
matter if I come off the bench or obvious to the packed house Satur­
St. Mary 's -page 9 
start." day afternoon, as UCLA out­
Decisions on starters are not as vi­rebounded Notre Dame, 39-18, 
tal for Phelps as they might be. His
Sportsboard -page 7 
limited roster gives him little choice compared to 9-of-13 for the Irish. 
while hitting 25-of-30 foul shots, 
as w lineups, a fact that did not "That's the difference right worse. Mike Mitchell, Dan Duff and escape Farmer or Indiana's Bobby there," said Phelps. Ron Rowan missed all six shots they Knight. Both used their depth to 
But the difference was far greater 
attempted. wear down Notre Dame's depleted than that. The difference was in "We improved somewhat from ranks. Tuesday's loss to Indiana," said Time won't bring more players in­Phelps. "But we need to get a lot bet­to the Irish camp, at least not this ter. We have to get some production season. But Phelps insists that time out of our forwards, and we've will heal some of the ills that have somehow got to put together 40 plagued Notre D;1me this season. minutes of concentration. Tuesday "We just n~ed to work out our
Process begins for women 
we kept our intensity for just 12 mistakes," he said, as if he himself minutes, but today we were in were on the court setting screens things for the first 17 or 18 minutes. 
and taking shots. "We have to learnBy MARK HANNUKSELA ing, made a pair of free throws to gave UCLA the lead for good, 37-35 That's the kind of improvement we to concentrate, and learn to talk to 
Sports Writer complete the run ofpoints. with 9:47 remaining, 
need every game." ecah other when we're out there. A pair of layups by freshman Swenson, sister of Denver Bronco Phelps had to be extremely We need some time-that's all." 
It was, to say the very least, a Carrie Bates brought Notre Dame linebacker Bo and the lone senior in pleased with at least one area of im­But time is a precious commodity,valiant effort. back to within five points at 50-45 UCLA's starting lineup, and fresh­
provement. Tim Andree played a and the Irish undertake a gruelingUCLA's eighth-ranked women's with 0:I 7 left, leaving many in the man center CharlotteJones gave the 
game that ranks with last year's Vir­road trip in just three weeks. As basketball team was the opposition crowd ofabout 500 to wonder ifthis Bruins a 41-3 5 lead, and the Irish 
ginia and Valparaiso contests as NBC's AI McGuire said Saturday: "If in a game many observers felt Notre still might not be one of those typi­could come no closer than four 
among the best ofhis career. Andree Digger wins 17 games with thatDame had little chance ofstaying in, cally impossible Notre Dame upsets. points the rest ofthe way. 
scored 12 points and pulled in five schedule and those players, helet alone winning. 
"We told them during the timeout "We were a little bit tired at the rebounds, while continually deserves to go right to the Hall ofOnly once before had the Irish (with 0:20 left and Notre Dame trail­end," D_iStanislao said after the con-frustrating UCLA's seven-foot cen­Fame -with his picture right next even played a nationally ranked ing by seven) that if we scored, we 
See WOMEN, page 8 te~, Stuart Gray. toJohn Wooden's."
team, and from the word "jump," 
were not to let them get the ball past that one was no contest. 
half-court without a foul," DiStanis­So it came as a big surprise, even 
lao said. "They got the ball past half­
... First since ,-78to Coach Mary DiStanislao, that court before our players Notre Dame still was tossing around remembered that." the idea "upset" with less than two Notre Dame's inexperience aside, leers sweep weekend series
minutes remaining, the outcome was settled at the foul 
"We didn't count on beating our­line, where the Bruins canned six of selves down the stretch," said DiS­12 attempts. tanislao following her team's 50-45 The Irish paid only one visit to the By RICK CHRYST and But the Irish ran into a stubborn his 13th goal of the year midway loss to the Bruins. "Our inex­charitystripe, that cominglate in the MICHAEL WRKINS Miami outfit in that last stanza, and -through the first period for Notre perience just killed us." first half, when Bates connected on Sports Writers after Greg Lukas tallied his second Dame, and after a Miami goal six 
That inexperience led to a pair of one oftwo tosses. goal ofthe night at 6:42 ofthe period minutes later, the Irish proceeded to crucial turnovers that ended all Although disappointed with the "Naturally, I'm pleased with the and Andrew McMillian made it 5-4 light the red light three times in suc­hopes ofan Irish victory. outcome, DiStanislao had plenty of fact that we swept this weekend, ten minutes later, what had been a cession. 
Twice within the last two reasons to be proud ofher squad. especially at home, " commented breather ws suddenly a nail-biter. Senior Bill Rothstein, who shares minutes, Irish guards tried to force For openers, the Irish controlled Irish Coach Lefty Smith after watch­Things became even more the team scoring lead with Perry, the ball inside of UCLA's collapsing the tempo of the game, keeping the ing his team broom their second interesting when both Irish defen­opened the barrage on sophomore 2-3 zone, a defense Bruin Coach fast breaks of the much quicker conference opponent of the year at semanJohn Schmidt and center Rex goalie Alain Chevrier with a quick Billie Moore swiched to during a Bruins down to a lonely few. home -the first time Notre Dame Bellomy were whistled off the ice shot to Chevrier's stick side with on­timeout with 8:39 remaining in the Also, a staunch defensive effort has accomplished that feat since along with a Miami skater with just ly 1:05 left in the initial period. contest. Each time, the pass was held UCLA to its lowest offensive November of 1978. 51 seconds remaining in the game. Brent Chapman, teaming with stolen, and UCLA capitalized on the output ofthe season. "It was good to see us start As if that wasn't a big enough chal­Bellomy and Higgins for the first
• turnovers, v. idening a five-point "Ourgoal was to keep them under moving the puck again," continued lenge, junior John Higgins was time this year, made it 3-1 just 1:42 margin to a nearly insurmountable 70 points," said Notre Dame's Smith, "and our self-discipline and called for slashing just six seconds into the second frame on a near­50-41 lead with 0:43 left. second-year coach. "They had been physcial play was much better that it later, giving the Redskins a six on impossible flip shot over the goal­
"Our zone offense still needs a averaging over 80." has been of late. Particularly on three advantage with the pulling of tender's glove shoulder from just 10 little bit of work," said DiStanislao. Notre Dame was a team inspired Saturday, I felt that we played ex­goaltender Dan Kodatsky. feet away. "We're not patient enough or smart in the first half, running off eight tremely well. We still have a long It all proved in vain however, as Shortly thereafter, Higgins gave enough against that type of defense straight points in one four minute way to go, but at least now we're senior co-captain Dave Poulin's long the Irish a three goal lead, and the yet. Today, our guards kept forcing stretch to take its biggest lead ofthe heading in the right direction." backhand shot slid into the empty Bellomy line found itself with four the ball inside after we told them not game, 14-8, with 8:38 left in the For much of the third period in Miami net to seal the game. For goals and six assists for the series, a to." period. Saturday's 6-4 triumph, however, Poulin, iL was his third goal of the statistic not unnoticed by an ap­
The first Irish miscue resulted in a The two clubs traded leads over many of the 1,687 loyalists who weekend, thus equaling his goal to­preciative coach. fast-break layup by forward Jackie the last five minutes, Notre Dame gathered in the ACC must have won­tal for the year prior to the series. "I thought Rex's line really did an Joyner, one of three sophomore all­coming out on top, 23-22 when the 
dered just what direction that was. From the beginning, it looked as if outstanding job, " praised Smith. Americans in the Bruin lineup. The buzzer sounded. 
Having played superb hockey for the the Irish would have little trouble "They created loose pucks, theysecond resulted in another fast­The contest was tied three times first forty minutes, Smith's charges moving past Miami and into sole were physical, and they scored well. break for the Bruins, and guard Susie early in the second half, but a layup 
took a comfortable 5-2 advantage in­possession of seventh place in the Swenson, fouled in the act ofshoot-l:!y Angel Hardy following a steal See ICERS, page 8
to the final period. CCHA. Senior wingjeffPerry scored 



