• • • Irish Extra, page 5 . 


VOL. XVI, NO. 65 an mdependenr student newspaper serving notre dame and saint mary's TUESDAY, DECEMBER 1, 1981 
Nuclear talks 
U.S. ,Soviets discuss arms 
' 
GENEVA, Switzerland (AP)-U.S. American studentsstood outside the many, President Reagan on Nov. I H arms negotiator Paul H. Nitze and U.S. mission at either end of a sheet announced he was willing to stay the Soviet Ambassador Yuli A. Kvit· on which a message was painted NATO plan if the Soviets dismantle sinsky met for I 0 hours yesterday at saying nuclear arms "cost one mil· their SS-20 missiles and older SS-4 the start of talks aimed at checking lion dollars a minute." and SS-S rockets. the nuclear arms race in Europe. The negotiations, officially call Brezhnev countered with an offer 
Calling the introductory session the Theater Nuclear Forces, or TNF, that both sides call a freeze on "cordial and businesslike," the 74-talks, are the Reagan administra­deploying more weapons while talks year-old veteran U.S. negotiator told tion's first attempt to negotiate an proceed here. He also said he might reporters he and Kvitsinsky agreed arms agreement with the Soviets. reduce the nuclear arsenal in the 
there would be no public dis­The 15 NATO countries agreed western part ofthe Soviet Union, but closures on what is being negotiated two years ago to deploy 572 U.S. NATO has rejected similar previous in the months ahead. Pershing l. and cruise missiles to offers. 
The two men shook hands warmly counter the 250 triple-warhead SS-A key issue at the Geneva talks is several times in front of photog· 20 Soviet missiles aimed at Western the East-West disagreement on raphers before entering the Soviet Europe. Deployment is to start in parity, or who holds the advantage mission for their meeting. Both 1983. But the Western allies said the in nuclear warheads on the Con­sides' full delegations will hold their United States in the meantime tinent. The United States says the first meeting today at an annex to should open talks with the Soviets Soviets have a 6-1 edge. The Soviets the U.S. mission. on reducing the continent's East­claim it is about equal because of 
"In following the instructions of West nuclear arsenals. ~ nuclear-armed U.S. submarines and 
both our governments to engage in Four days before Soviet President bombers based in Europe with serious negotiation!>, we have con­Leonid I. Brezhnev visited West Ger-ranges extending to Soviet territory. curred that the details of the negotiations must be kept in the negotiating rooms," Nitze said at the 
Dance -a -thon added
U.S. mission. 

That is the only way, he said, that "we can hope to look at the hard 
to Mardi Gras plans 
issues which divide us, and to search for solutions that will assure security By VIC SCIULLI mum ofl.O sponsors to participate in and reduce tensions... The stakes are News Staff the marathon. The marathon will be 
very high for all ofus." open to all Notre Dame students, There was no comment from the part.·nts and friends who can par­
Plans for this year's Mardi Gras are 

Soviets on yesterday's ~ession. ticipatt" as sponsors or dancers.
well under way but bt·cause of the 

Downtown, a torchlight march A numbn of incentives will be
no-gambling rule instituted by Bis­

for world disarmament, organized available for dancers and sponsors.
hop McManus for all events taking

by the local group "Women t(Jr Door prizes will be awarded
place in the diocese, a number of

Or. rfeisfeiler ofPenn State Unil't'rsi~v galle hisfirst ofa series of 
Peace," drew about 1,000 people throughout tht: evening. Prizes will
changes in the format of the annual

lectures titled "The Case of Lie Groups" yesterday evening in the 
last night, but otherwise Geneva was also be awarded to the most valuabk
event have taken place.

Computing center. (photo by Beth Prezio) 
in day.
quiet. Earlier the two One of the additions to this year's dancers (dancers who raise the most 
money) and 10 the best dancers.
Mardi Gras is a Dance-a-thon. 
Dancers will be eligibk for prizes af­
schedukd to take place February I 3 ter nine hours ofdandng.
in the Hockey Dome of the ACC There will also be an incentive forfrom I p.m. to I a.m. The format for residt.·nce halls. The dorm with thethe dance marathon will be slightly highest per capita byJanuary 25 will 


Rock'n'roll weds business 
difti:rent from the format of most have pick in the lottery for the gamemarathons. Instead of using sponsor booths. Each hall will n:ceive 15

LOS AN< iELES ( AP) -It would have been un­Similarly, rock stars who once feared that "if thl' kids sheets to get sponsors. participants pert.-ent ofthe money raised by their
thinkahk a fi:w yt·o~rs ago. To buy one of the two official think they're wo commercial, they may not be con­will sell tickets at 53 each. Tlu: tick­booth.
postcr1> for tht· Rolling Stones' current North American sidered hip any more" have rethought their attitudes in ets, which will be divided into three Money raised from Mardi Grastour, you have co purchase a bottle ofjovan perfume as light ofskyrot.·keting tour costs, the soft music market of parts, will sponsor the:• dancers, ad­will benefit a number of charities,well. recent years and -for all but thl' biggest ofsuperstars mit the sponsor to the public dance including CILA, Hig Brothers and Sis­And if you wear the oftlcial Rod Stewart T-shirt bdng -the problem of maintaining public exposure. (9 p.m.-I p.m.) and make the spon­ters and Part:nts Anonymous.
sold outside his current concerts, you'll be walking "When an artist dot.·sn't have a hit record out, they're sor eligible to win one of the prizes Dancers can begin registeringaround with the Sony logo emblazoned on your back. generally not getting a lot of airplay. "The primary to be given away during the evening, tomorrow at South Dining Hall and
Signs of the times, and to paraphra..'e Bob Dylan, the reason the artists do it (make advertising deals) is not so including a trip for two to New Or­Thursday at North Dining Hall. After 
times they are indeed a-changin' as far as relations go much for the dollars but for the visibility." leans. Thursday, dancers can register in
bctwn·n Madison Avenue and rock'n'roll. To jay So over the last few years, Earth Wind & Fire have Also included with each ticket the Student Activities Center in
Colt-man, whose become national spokesmen for Panasonic's Platinum will be a S3 coupon for Barnaby's. Lafortune.
';-year-old New 
Series of portable radio cassette recorders; Charlie Dancers arc required to have a mini-York marketing Daniels has endorsed Busch beer and Skoal tobacco; firm Rockhill Eddie Rabbitt is singing a Miller's beer ad; and the list played marriage goes on, with tie-ins between Ronrico rum and the Mar­broker to the shall Tucker Band, Camel cigarettes and the Allman 
Portrait by friend honors 
Stones-jovan and Brothers Band. Stewart-Sony matches, the change is nothing short of Because rock bands are so sensitive to their images, n:volutionary. the deals are almost as varied as they arc numerous. For 

Sr, Made/eva, Art 's Center 
"When I started Rockbill," recalled the 31-year-old example, on the free Rockhill concert poster for the formt·r pre-med student. "Madison Avenue and major Marshall Tucker Band, band members pose casually By MICHAEL WILKINS Mary's Public Relations Department. corporations had no interest in tying thc;mselves in with with a few bottles of Ronrico rum quite visible; but Neu•sStaff Schlesinger . started painting rock'n'roll because there was still this image of Camel was limited to an ad on the back of the Allman professionally in Europe where she rock'n'roll being a counter-culture movement. There's Brothers poster. Saint Mary's College, in conjunc· graduated from the Academy of Fine no question that going to Woodstock was as much for In an unusual deal, a new band called Sneaker not tion with the twe-nty-fifth Arts. She concentrated on portraits making a statement of your political feelings as for the only wearsjordachc Athletic Wear attire in a poster but anniversary of the Moreau Fine Arts while in Vienna, and also illustrated entertainment." actually put the jordache logo on the back cover of its l.O children's books. She came to the
Center, recently unveiled a portr.Iit But more than a decade has gone by. Music -with debut album. The payoff, I ,000 pairs of jordache of Sr. Madeleva, former president of United States in 1939 and has ex­the possible exception ofthe anti-establishment output sneakers worth an estimated 520,000, was used in radio the college. hibited her work in Los Angeles and of some punk and new-wave bands -is back to being station promotions for the band. The portrait of Sr. Madeleva was South Bend as well as in Vienna. plain old entertainment, and the Woodstock generation At the other end of the spectrum are the precedent· painted by Alice Schlesinger, a Schlesinger, who belongs to many has grown up. setting Stewart and Stones arrangements, in which neil· professional painter and friend ofSr. local and regional art groups, "Someone who went to Woodstock today could be her act endorsed the sponsoring product. Madcleva. The paintng was unveiled received a commission from Saint an advertising executive in his mid-30s making deci· In fact, when asked what the Stones contributed to Oct. 30 by Schlesinger and John Mary's to commemorate this year, sions on how to spend millions of dollars," Coleman the multimillion-dollar jovan deal -described by all Duggan, president ofSaint Mary's. the year of Sr. Madeleva, with a said. "They understand that rock music is a very concerned as the most lucrative tie-in involving rock Sr. Madcleva was chosen as the portrait of her. She has held exhibi­positive part of someone's lifestyle. It's a great way to stars -band spokesman Paul Wasserman re)Jiied: subject of the painting, not only be· tions in many local galleries while communicate to teens, not something to be afraid of." "Nothing. They were just lending jovan some sort of cause she was president of Saint working on portraiture in South Teenagers have also changed, Coleman added. subliminal association in return for X amounts of Mary's but also because she Bend for the past six years. 
was a "Ten years ago a kid had an anti-business attitude. money." writer, poet and aided efforts to have The portrait of Sr. Madcleva will You go to college today they're not picketing against the Moreau Fine Arts Center con· permanently remain on display in ·
See ROCK, page 3 big companies, they're trying to get a job." structed, according to the Saint the Great Hall of Lcmans Hall. 


ews Briefs 

By The Observer and The Associated Press 
A key national measure of future economic strength dipped substantially again last month in what one independent forecaster called "the last big blowoff' ofthe current recession. Buta government official said the economy would remain "pretty weak" the rest ofthe year, with no real upturn until spring. The Commerce Department reported that its Index of Leading Indicators fell 1.8 percent in October, the third straight decline and the fifth in six months. The sizable drop still wasn't as bad as September's dip of2.2 percent, the sharpest decline since May 1980 and the heart of last year's recession. "The recession is for real and it's continuing," said Robert Ortner, chief economist for the Commerce Department. ­
AP 

The Los Angeles Coroner conducted an autopsy yesterday in hopes ofunlocking new clues in the mysterious death ofactres~ Natalie Wood, whose body was found floating in the chilly Pacific waters off Santa Catalina Island. Miss Wood, clad in a blue nightgown, knee-high socks and a red down jacket, disappeared late Saturday in a small boat from the 60-foot power cruiser Splen­dour while it was moored in Isthmus Cove in the remote northern area ofthe island, officials said. She was found Sunday morning just beneath the surface of the water a half-mile away, off Blue Cavern Point and about 200 yards from the 13-foot dinghy. The Coast Guard said the clothing would have made it hard for her to swim. Authori­ties said Miss Wood apparently drowned, although exposure was also cited as a possible cause of death. Sheriffs homicide inves­tigators remained on the island yesterday gathering information on the events leading up to Miss Wood's death. Unexplained was how the 43-year-old actress was able to slip away from the yacht un­
noticed -apparently in spite ofher stated fear ofdeep water. -AP 
Sen. Harry F. Byrdjr., of Richmond, V.A., the only independent in the U.S. Senate, said yesterday he will not seek rc;­election next year, opening what promises to be a tough fight for the seat he has held since 1965. "Eighteen years is long enough," Byrd said at a news conference. A noted conservative, he said the trend toward curbing excessive government "and moderating its cost" was a key factor in his decision to bow out. Sen. Bob Packwood, R-Ore., chairman of the National Republican Senatorial Committee, said Byrd's impending· retirement "ensures that Republicans will take the Virginia Senate seat" in 1982. -AP 
Wizened Fransie Geringer of Anaheim, Calif., was up early yesterday, struggling to overcome his shyness, eager to get to know the boy he waited so long to meet. "At 6 am. he was tugging on my sleeve to wake up. 'I want to see Mickey,"' Fransie's father, Herman, 37, said. "He's in a new mood now." Fransie, 8, who suffers a rare aging disease known as progeria, traveled thousands of miles from his home in Orkney, South Africa, to visit his fairy tale idol, Pinocchio, the wooden puppet who battled to become a real boy. Waiting for Fransie to arrive Sunday night was Mickey Hays, 9, of Hallsville, Texas, another progeria victim, who like Fransie is a bald dwarf with fingers and toes bent like those of an elderly man. Yesterday, they watched cartoons and planned a luncheon together. Both boys believed they were the only living cases of the disease until last August when The Associated Press carried a story about Fransie's plight, mentioning his love for Pinocchio. Mickey badgered 
his mother to contact Fransie. -AP 

A 20-year-oldformer mental patient in New Orleans told a magistrate yesterday he would resist being returned to Mississippi where he is charged with the sledgehammer slayings ofhis mother, stepfather and half-sister. james E. Billiot was arrested Saturday in New Orleans in connection with the Thanksgiving Day killings in Leetown, Miss. Orleans Parish Magistrate Gerard H. Hansen set a Dec. 28date for an extradition hearing. Billiotwas held in an Orleans Parish jail in lieu of $310,000 bond. -AP 
A Providence, R.I. motorcyclist who hit a car and was catapulted 25 feet into the air, striking a utility pole and bouncing off the roofofa house, was conscious when police arrived. Lawrence D. Marandola, 30, ofProvidence, was reported in satisfactory condition yesterday at Rhode Island Hospital's intensive care unit. Police said his motorcycle collided Sunday with a car driven by William C. Benevides, 23, ofofProvidence. Benevides, who was uninjured, said 
he was turning left at the time. -AP 

Windywith intermittent rain likely today. Highs in the mid to upper 40s. Windy and colder tonight with rain showers changing to snow flurries. Lows in the low 30s. Chance for a few flurries windy and cold tomorrow. Highs in the mid 30s. Chance for precipitation 60 percent both tonight and tomorrow night. -AP 
Tuesday, December 1, 1981 -page 2 
The Notre Dame Experience 
Unfortunately, I think this is going to come offsound­ing like a typical Notre Dame rah-rah article, but please don't stop reading. I've been bumbling and tumbling · through that terrible reality ofgrad school applications that face many seniors now. And whether it is these or job interviews or whatever, the signs are all too prevalent that the Notre Dame experience is rapidly coming to a close for us seniors. The real world is a dog barking on our doorsteps wanting to be let in, or that rumbling of thunder off in the distance that ~e con­sciously ignore. But soon it will arrive upon us, and our four years at Notre Dame will become but a memory. 
We all seem to have taken our life here at Notre Dame, that mystical Notre Dame experience for granted these last four years. It seems that we have been lulled into accepting nothing less. It probably will not be until long after we graduate that we sentimentally realize just how good we have had it here. 
You, of course, will ask, "Well, what IS the Notre Dame experience?" The answer can be nothing more than indefinite, but as we move away from this place, each in a different direction, we will begin to see it clearer. Obviously, this is a caring place with caring people, people who give a damn about your welfare. I am not talking about our sometimes-confused ad­
The_OhserYer 
Design Editor................... Deirdre Murphy DesignAssistants.......... Suzanne La Croix Tim Farrell Typesetters .......................... Bridget Emmer Stephen Brown News Editor....:.............. Mary Agnes Carey Copy Editors .......................... Valerie Evans Kathy Murray Sports Copy Editor............. Dave Dziedzic Sports Supplement............. Skip Desjardin Michael Ortman Typist......................................]eanine Hynel Systems Control ................... Bruce Oakley ND Day Editor................. Karen McMahon SMC Day Editor....................... Cece Baliles Ad Design ............................... Fran & Corby Photographer............................ Beth Prezio Guest Appearances............................ Roper Diane "the new girl' 
Trivialities 
Scots 

Picts andJutes 
Intense Desire 
"I have squandered my resistance" 
•
•• Applications available for 1982 ••• • AN TOSTAL Executive Staff • 
• from Tues., Dec. 1 until Mon., Dec. 7 at the Secretary's •
•

• Desk 2nd floor LaFortune 
• 

• 
Positions available include: :vice Chairman Comptroller 

•Personel 
Special events :secretary Booklet 


eKeeper of the zoo Day Chairman (Thurs., Fri., Sat.) : 
•Head 
Lion Tamers Bookstore Basketball (boys & girls) e 

• 
Deadline for return of applications is 5:00pm e : Mon. Dec. 7. Interviews will take place Dec. 9-11. : 



Inside Tuesday 

tremendous pressures, these will be small compared with what is to come once we leave Notre Dame. These fours have and should have been special simply because we have been at a special place with special people. 
But for all the good that is here at Notre Dame, there are a number of balancing faults. This place is not a Utopia. Consequently, there is room for improvement, and as members of this community we have an obliga­tion to improve that Notre Dame experience. There is so much potential to make our experience here even better than it is now; the only thing stopping us is stu­dent apathy. Student apathy has been the biggest disap­pointment here at Notre Dame. For four years we have allowed the administration to continually place the dol­lar sign before the interests ofthe students, and we have lived with so many of the inane rules they have laid down before us, without really making any stand. In 
~l!\~ ~Nl sat back without speaking 
and presenting their 
opinions. We have allowed the administration to lead us like obedient 2-year-olds who have no minds of their own. What a better place Notre Dame could be ifthe students were truly treated 
as adults and not as children, and ifthey were allowed to make the decisions which the administration feels that we are not fit to make. 
But as long as the majority ofstudents passively com­plain to each other about this, without complaining to the administration, nothing will change. An active stu­dent voice is needed in eveyone to promote the stu­dents' interests properly to the administration. We've only got six precious months (or a year and six precious months, or two years and six precious months, or even three years and six precious months) left to make our voices heard. 
•
• 
• 
• Night events: Mobilization • Publicity • 

Founded November 3, 1966 
The Observer is an independent newspaper published by the s.tudents of the . University of Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is report­ed as accurately and as objectively as possible. Editorials represent the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, opinions and letters are the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community, and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, is enco1,1raged. 
P_o. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 {219)283-8661 
f:"xecu Iit•e \"ell'S f:"di tor.. Sel/"s l:'dilor ... \"ell'S l:'ditor.. 
SIIC l:'xecutit•e l:'dilor... Site \"el/"s l:'ditor. 
./Jusiness llanager .. ConIroller. .·ldt•erlising llmu1ger.. 
Editorial Board 
l:"tlitor-iii·Chit'f..... ... John \ldirath .... I'-dIi Flint .\j)(wts /:ditor .......... .\I ichad ( >rt man ...........Tim \"nedIotti 
Photo l:ditor ... John \l,tnlr 
..... David Kickahaugh ..... \lary Agnes< :arey l:ditoria/s Fditor.. ..........Anthony \\.alton 
...... Cathy Domanico Features Fditor .. ..........Cn·gory Swiercz 

Department Managers 
. ... l{ich Coppola Productin11 lfllllti,C.Wr .................. .\lichat:l .\lonk ..Joe \lultlur Circulation .llanager .. ........ Tom .\lad.cnnan .................<:hris ()\\Til .\J'Sh'IIIS llmwger.. . ........... 1\run· <lakin 
ministration only; I basically am talking about the stu­dents and faculty. To be sure, we have many self­centered losers, but 
overall experience has been that students here con­sciol,lsly care about other and their problems. 
Unfortunately, that is not to ·"'~l'l<IV·.,., 
be found too much in the 
real world. 
Our stay here at Notre Dame has been one of a thousand different ex­periences. There is literally 
something here with which everyone can get involved. There is some niche into which any student can be comfortable, be it acting, writing, photographing, running, boxing or simply socializing at Corby's. I've been told by friends back home that everyone at Notre Dame is a jock. This com­pliment, although not quite true, points to the fact that the people here, despite all the intelligence and books, also work at being well-rounded individuals and not some book worm whose head is too big to carry. 
It would really take much more space than I have to totally explore what we call the Notre Dame ex­perience. But, it IS a reality here, and its atmosphere is not to be found elsewhere. Each day we see many ex­amples of it, but we do not properly assimilate them because we have grown used to them here. Our four years here are supposed to be some of the best in our life because we have only the responsibility to do our best in school. Although this can sometimes create 
defense of the administra­
tion, their intentions, I 
believe, have always been 
good, but so often mis­
directed. In attack of the ad­
ministration, they have been 
deafto student imput. 

Most of us have allowed 
the administration to be 
deaf; we have done nothing 
to solve their hearing 
problems. There have been a commendable few who have tried to make the ad­ministration listen, but generally the students have 

The 0 bserver Tuesday, December 1, 1981 -page 3 



Prof. Tuft:e speaks on politics, econo~y 
By ED KONRADY 
News Stuff 
"Political life is more than an oc­casional random shot to a self­contained isolated economic system," said Prof. Edward Tufte in a speech last Tuesday. "Rather, economic life vibrates to the rhythm ofpolitics." 
Liturgy honors slain 
. .

•
mtsstonartes 
Uyt»lJSTAMBORELLO 
News Stuff 
On Wednesday, a liturgy and 
prayer service for the four mis­
sionaries slain in El Salvador one 
year ago will be sponsored by tht 
Holy Cross justice and Peace Center 
and the Leadership Conference o f 
Women Religious. 
The United States Embassy iden­tified the four as Sr. Dorothy Kazel of the Ursuline Order, Sr. Ita Ford of Brooklyn and Sr. Maura Clarke of Belle Harbor, Queens, both of the Maryknoll Order, and jean Donovan ofWestport, Conn., a lay missionary. 
Sr. Dorothy and Donovan, called the "Rescue Squad" for their generosity and loyalty to the Sal­vadoran people, met the two Maryknoll nuns at the airport that day. The four drove from the airport to the poverty stricken neighbor­hood of San Salvador in which they worked. They never reached their destination. 
Officials found the van in which the four were riding burned and abandoned. Tht• four bodies were found in a ditch ncar the highway. It was appart·nt that the four had been shot at close range. 
A high official in the San Salvador Archdiocese told a reporter from the New York Times tllat "everything indicates that they were murdered by members of the government security forces. The Government thinks that the priests arc all Communists." 
To honor the four missionaries, a noon prayer ser;vice will be con­ducted at the Federal Building on Main and jefferson, and at 12:15 p.m. in Sacred Heart Church. The services will conclude with a liturgy at the St. Stephen's Church on Thomas St. at 7 p.m. 

Tufte's speech, "Current Research 
in Political Economy," dealt with the 
theories combining political science 
and economics. 
"The regular, routine features of 
political life, that is, the beliefs ofthe 
politicians about the electorate, the 
timing of elections, tl!e ideology of 
the platforms ofthe poliUcial parties 
and the position in the left/right 
spectrum of the political party in 
power; all of these things are 
signficant determinants ofalmost all 
important aspects of macro­
economic policy and performance. 
"Politics exerts a tremendous 
force upon economics, but because 
the state of the economy affects the 
re-election chances of politicans, 
economics also exerts a powerful 
force on poltics." 
Tufte, a political science and statistics professor at Yale Univer­sity, is a political analyst for the New York Times,Newsweek, and CBS-TV. approach. (pboto by Betb Prezio) He has written four books, including 
Political Control oftbe Economy. 


Pelton reflects on Christianity, liberation 
By CINDY COLDIRON 
News Staff 

The current director of the Notre Dame Institute for Clergy Educa­tion, Fr. Robert Pelton, shared some ofhis reflections on "Small Christian Communities and Liberation" last 
Monday  in  Carroll  Hall  at  Saint  
Mary's College.  
"The  modern  roots  for  small  

• • • Rock 
continuedfrompage I 
In addition to the poster offer ­buy 55 worth ofjovan products and you can purchase the poster for $1 · jovan was allowed to put its name on the tickets for the Stones concerts, and to· use its name in other tour promotions (but no advertising at 
the concerts themselves). A dif­ferent poster was available outside the arenas where the Stones per­formed and from Rolling Stone magazine. 
Coleman said the Stones initially approached him to look into a spon­sorship deal. 
"Originally it was to just have a 
Police arrest suspect in 'ski-mask rapist' case 
BATON ROUGE, La. (AP)-Au­thorities in nine states, including In­diana, want to talk to three men arrested In Louisiana in connection with the so-called "Ski-Mask Rapist" case, said the head ofstate police on yesterday. 
"We have heard the number ofat­tacks may approach 100 nationwide," Col. Bo Garrison said at a news conference. 
"Based on the information our task force has developed over the last few weeks, we firmly believe that john B. Simonis committed ski­mask attacks in jena Gonzales Baton Rouge, and Je~nings," h~ added. 
Simonis, 30, and john Glass Dick­inson Ill, 26, both of Lake Charles La., were arrested Friday night. ' 
Frederick A. Boerman Jr., 27, also of Lake Charles, was arrested early yesterday in connection with the case. 
"We believe they were the drivers," Garrison said, referring to Dickinson, a pharmacist, and Boer-man, a musician. 
Simonis is unemployed and "apparently has been living out of his car," said Garrison. "The vehicle has 76,000 miles on it and it's only seven months old." 
Garrison said Simonis will formal­ly be charged with attacks in jena, Gonzales, Baton Rouge and jennings "as soon as our investigators can file the official documents." 
Simonis is being held in jena on robbery and assault charges under a $300,000 bond._ 
"All of the cases seem to revolve around Simonis," said Garrison. "You might say he formed the core or a nucleus. Som'etimes he worked alone and sometimes in concert. His accomplices were not always in­volved in the sexual assaults, but sometimes they were." 
Garrison said Simoni;-;'may have been involved in numerous attacks in Louisiana, Mississippi, Texas, Ok­lahoma, Florida, Ohio, Indiana, Wis­consin, California and possibly others." 
sort of nest egg for the tour," 
Wasserman says, indicating that 
even the Stones were a bit nervous 
about the sluggish state of the con­
cert market. 

They needn't have worried. "The tour grew and grew like Topsy and will be the most lucrative there has ever been," Wasserman said. He es­timated the gross from ticket sales and merchandising alone at close to 1150 million -and that's not count­ing revenue from the closed-circuit broadcast ofa concert coming up iJ:t December. 
Stewart's arrangement with Sony is a bit broader than the Stones' deal, involving the printing of"Sony Tape presents Rod Stewart" on the official T-shirts. It's also a bit more con­troversial in music industry circles because of the controversy over the use of blank tape to record music and thereby circumvent purchase of records. 
"We feel that it's inappropriate," said Bob Merlis, spokesman for War­ner Bros. Records, Stewart's record company. 
But there wasn't anything the company could do, he said: "We we~e presented with a fait accompli. We don't own Rod Stewart, we jus( sell records." 
L-5 Society 
•


movte postponed 
The film "Reflections" originally scheduled for today has been res­cheduled for tomorrow at 8 p.m. and 9 p.m in LaFortune's Little Theatre. The film is cosponsored by the L-5 society and the Notre Dame Philosophy Department. 
man ofthe department from 1959 to 
1962. In 1971, he was elected to the 
National Board of Directors as religious representatve in the Or­ganization for Continuing Education of Roman Catholic Clergy. In addi­tion, he served as a correspondent for the Religious News Service for the visit ofPopejohn Paul II to Brazil in 1980. 
"Being evangelized by the poor or those without power," he con­tinued, "means a move to a new un­derstanding ofour collective reality in the light of the Gospel. We also begin to experience our own powerlessness." 
According to Fr. Pelton the major strength of the weak is that they unite such that their own fundamen­tal rights given to them by God are not trampled on. 

Explaining liberation theology as an assumption of the "living of the Christian faith," he added that It is also a "response of the enslaved, both poor and rich, which can lead to the liberation ofall." 
Fr. Pelton used the Church in Brazil as an example to reinforce his message. In Brazil the official church stands with workers even at the risk of great persecution. "The reality of Brazil is that many people are in dif­ficult circumstances." 
Fr. Pelton concluded that "the greatest glory of the Catholic Church was the fact that it was being oppressed and had, instead of collapsing, grown stronger." He was referring to the reality of the ec­clesiastical communities and their reality in other parts of the world, particularly in the Third World. 
Christian communities are found in the roots of the Second Vatican Council. The basic Christian com­munity not in touch with the poor or alienated runs the risk of creating a parallel church of the powerful and prosperous," Fr. Pelton stated. 
Before his current position at Notre Dame, Rev. Pelton served as a professor of theology at the Univer­sity from 1953 to 1963 and as chair-
If you desire financial assistance, scholarsbip, or guaranteed job opportunities upon graduation; then you should enter.... 
7-8 December 
As an im~rtapt date on your calender! 
That is the day we are providing information and interviews in all ateas of: 
AVIATION ENGINEERING PERSONNEL 'MANAGEMENT 
at Notre Dame· University. Salaries start from 17,200 increasing to 28,600-45,700 in four years. 
Openings are also available in: Materials Management Doctors Business Administration Nurses 
Nuclear Engineering Lawyers 
For more information or appointment for interview call: 
317-269-6197 or 1-800-382-9404 extension 6197 
Department of the Navy 
575 N. Pennsylvania St. 
Office, 646 (OPO) 
Indianapolis, IN. 46204 

The Observer Tuesday, December 1, 1981 -page 4 
Drug smuggling 



Supreme Court to decide tactics 

WASHINGTON (AP) The Supreme Court agreed yesterday to decide the fate of a federal program against drug smuggling and heard arguments on whether presidents can be sued for money damages for violating the rights ofAmericans. 
The justices will use a Florida case to determine whether law enforce­ment officers can stop, question and even search air travelers whose be­
havior fits a "drug courier profile." 
The other case specifically in­volves whether former President Nixon and his top aides can be sued for money damages by an Air Force 
"whistleblower" who claims his right to free speech was violated by his dismissal for speaking out about cost overruns. 
However, the justices seemed more interested in a payment Nixon made to limit his losses in the S3.5 million suit by A. Ernest Fitzgerald th t an in the constitutional issues raised by the suit. 
Under that agreemet, a S142,000 payment already made to Fitzgerald will settle the suit if the Supreme Court upholds Nixon's arguments. But Nixon will have to pay an addi­tional S28,000 if the court rules 
against him. Although the financial arrange­
ment essentially settles the
Richard Allen, President Reagan's national security adviser, 
Fitzgerald case, Nixon is pressing his
talks with reporters before his appearance on NBC's "Meet the 
appeal in an attempt to get a ruling, that would have the effect of 
Press" program in Washington. Allen said that be bas asked the 
President to place him on "administrative leave" until thejustice 
squelching any other lawsuits
Department completes its investigation of gifts Allen received 
fromjapenesejournalists. (AP photo) 

seeking money damages for his ac­tions as president. The court's decision is expected by July, but comments from a
ARMY RESERVE 



majority of the justices yesterday VETERANS NEEDED PART-TIME 
suggested they may find the case $116/ WEEKEND AND UP. 
moot because of the agreement be­tween Nixon and Fitzgerald and
If you served in the Army, Navy, Air Force 
send the matter back to a lower 
or Marines, the Army Reseve urgently needs your 
court without deciding the constitu­
experience to help train new people one weekend 
tional issue. a month and two weeks annually. It's a nice 
In other matters yesterday, the extra income. An E-5 with 4 years makes almost 
court: Refused to disturb racial
$116 a weekend, over $1,833 a year. Plus PX 
desegregation plans in effect for
privileges, low cost life insurance, retirement 
public schoois in St. Louis and Buf­
benefits, and more. Interested? Stop by the 
falo. The St. Louis plan last year re­quired the busing of some 7,600 students within the city and soon may result in city-suburb busing. About 3,200 pupils have been bused since last September under the chal­lenged phase ofthe Buffalo plan. 
-Ruled in a case from Santa Ana, Calif., that communities seeking to ban pornographic movies or close down theaters showing such films do not have to prove "beyond a reasonable doubt" that the movies are obscene, but can use a less strin­gent standard ofproof. 
·Refused to give 12-year-old Karen O'Connor of Prospect Heights, Ill., a chance to play on the boys' basketball team at her junior high school. 
In the drug "profile" case, Florida courts ruled that such tactics are im­permissible because they allow of­ficers to stop people without the constitutionally required "probable 
cause"  to suspect that  a  crime is  
being committed.  
The  program,  begun  by  the  

federal Drug Enforcment Ad­
ministration in 1974, is in operation 
at some two dozen municipal air­
ports around the country. 

Under it, federal agents or local police look out for passengers displaying "characteristics" or "behavior traits" that fit a predetermined stereotype of a drug smuggler. 
DEA officials claim the program has been successful in curbing drug trafficking via commercial airlines. 
Two Supreme Court decisions last year left the legal status of the ·program in doubt, however, and the Florida case is expected to clear up 
that confusion. 

The Florida case stems from Mark 
Royer's Hrest Jan. 3, 1978 at Miami 
International Airport. Dade County 
detectives found 65 pounds of 
marijuana in his luggage. 

i<oyer's subsequent conviction 
was overturned when Florida ap­
peals courts ruled that Royer's con­
stitutional rights were violated 
when the police officers detained 
him because he fit the drug-courier 
profile. 



Resident assistant selection begins 
Graduate students are a minority but it is not necessarily more difficult for a graduate student to be selected. 
A grade point average of at least 
3.0 is required, along with three let­ters ofrecommendation. 
These recommendations, Green noted, should come from "Head Staff members, either former or present, because those people know best how that person performs within the resident hall. However, ifthe ap­plicant doesn't know anyone within the hall, then someone who can at­test to their relationship will be ade­quate." Following acceptance, a resident assistant should not have work or activities that would inter­fere with the position. 
After receiving the applications, the University will begin a screening process. Those applicants who pass this process will be notified by February I. 
All Recturs will then be informed of those candidates seeking a posi­tion as resident assistant in their respective halls. 
"It is up to the Rector whether, when and how the candidate will be interviewed," according to Green. The Rector may show preference to students residing within the resi­dent hall, but it is not impossible for a student to apply for a position at a hall other than the one in which he or she resides. 
A list of accepted candidates will be submitted to the Office of Stu­dent Affairs. On March 8, the Office ofStudent Affairs will send letters of appointment to those applicants ac­cepted as Resident Assistants. 
Applications will be available Monday through Friday from 8 a.m. to noon, and from 1 p.m. to 5 p.m. in Room 31 5 of the Administration building. Any other questions should be directed to Fr. Greg Green, assistant vice-president of Student Affairs. 
"Leadership, responsibility within the hall, a sense ofcommunity, and a willingness to serve," are the qualities Green cited as desirable in a resident assistant. 
The Observer (USPS 598 920) 1s · published Monday through Fnday and on home football Saturdays. except dunng exam and vacat1on penods The Observer 1s published by the students of Notre Dame and Sa1nt Mary s Col· lege Subscnpt1ons may be purchased for $25 per year ($15 per semester) by "'"'t1ng The Observer P 0 Box 0. Notre Dame. lnd1ana 46556 
The Observer IS a member of The Associated Press All reproduction nghls are reserved 
Second class postage pa1d at Notre Dame. tnd1ana 46556 
By GUS TAMBORELLO 
News Staff 

The selection process for resident 
assistants begins tomorrow with ap­
plications available in Room 315 of 
the Administration Building. 

The position of resident assistant 
is open to any student entering the 
senior or graduate student level for 
the academic year in which they 
serve. 

Between 600 and 650 students apply each year, according to Fr. Gregory Green, assistant vice­president of Student Affairs. 
Army Reserve Center and talk to us. You'll get the warm welcome a veteran deserves. We need you. call: 
SFC Hamilton 234-4187 Be All You Can Be. 
FO 

Sunday, Dec. 13 7:30PM NOTRE DAME A.C.C. 
TICKETS ON SALE 
NOW!!! 
$10.50/9.50 Reserved 
Available at the Box Office, 1st Source Bank, Main Office, St. Joseph's Bank, Elkhart Truth, Robertson 's--South Bend & Elkhart. 

E;DISON & IRONWOOD 
hair desip for the aware ••and w...n 
r----~-coUPON'------, 
L-------COUPON------J 
1  FALL SPECIAL  1  
:10% Off c~~~N I  :· I  
I  ON ALL SERVICES  1  



@REDI<EN 
FREE HAWAIIAN VACATION 
CNM in for de~ails reprdi•& Redkens Sweepstakes tollly. HOURS~ MON.-1:30-5:00 Tllllrs.-1:30-8:30 Fri. 8:30-5:30 Sat.-8:00-4:00 
Phone 234-6767 




e Irish Extra 
an Observer sports supplrqment 
Tuesday, December 1, 1981 -page 5 
Irish face Hoosiers in first real test 
Phelps says 'Rat Pack' will surprise some people 
spccitic situation," says AI McGuire. "He

By SKIP DESJARDIN 
adapts his system, and his personnel, to fill

Assodate .\jwrts litlitor 
specific needs." This season, the needs arc many. "We haven't got any depth to speak of,"Many pcopk arc still grumbling about Dan· Phelps admits. "We just have to pray we don'tny Aingc, Mormons, and Digger Phelps. They have any injuries. We lack experience at a lot saw that which Notre Dame basketball fans ofpositions, and it's just going to take time tohad hungc:rcd for the most -anational cham­get that experience. We need to be consistent,
pionship-only to have it wrested from them 
play with intensity, and conc:entrate at all on the floor of Atlanta's Omni. 

times.

Some blamed Phelps and his slow-down of· fcnsc. Others blamed Ainge and his miracle "But don't tell these kids they can't get thedrive down the court. But those who looked job done. Don't tell them they're going to end at it objectively blamed the players them· up in the NIT. They know they can pull it offselves, who failed to execute when the time 
We have to learn-early and 
came to do so. 
and we'll go from there. 
But that was eight months ago, and now the Fighting Irish have begun a new season, with "There is the potential here for a terrificmany new players -or rather, without the 
team. But we have to get contributions from
old ones. Gone to the NBA arc the three men everybody. We will not win becauseJohn Pax­
primarily responsible for what Phelps calls son scores 30 points a game. We'll win be­
"the most sucn·ssful period in the history of cause Mike Mitc:hell dishes out six assists, Billy 
Notre Dame basketball." Now he must find a Varner pulls in ten rebounds and Dan Duff 
way to do without Woolridge, Tripucka and turns it on when you least expect it."
Jackson. 
"We have quality athletes in this program He's right, ofc:oursc. He needs everyone on right now," Phelps says. "Before the year is that team. Barry Spcnc:er must adapt to the over, they art: going to surprise some people. center spot until Tim Andree recovers. Tom They arc going to surprise a lot ofpeople." Sluby has got to become aggressive in the 
That is a lot easier said than done, however, front-court and on the boards. Cecil Rucker and the kind ofstatement we've come to ex­must c:oncentrate on his defense, and play pect from basketball coaches with mcdi(Jcrc with some consistency. Ron Rowan will have teams. But speaking with Phelps, his players to show that he can beat the zone with his and assistant coaches, one hegins ~o believe outside shot. that this group of rdativc unknowns -"The 
There arc a lot of things that must go justRat Pack" Digger calls them -can indeed pull right t(>r this team to achcivc the succ:ess theyoff their share of upsets. 

want to ac:heivc. It will take determination, a "The first II games ofthe season will lot of luck and good c:oaching. But it can, and decide just what kind of year it will be." 
very well could, happen.
Phdps says. "Ifwe can go 7-4 during that 

lead the Irish to the NCAA tournament om:e again. (Photo byjohn 1'1-facor) 
stn·tch, I'll be very happy. These guys will still 
he karning the system,·and we'll have the 
toughest part of the st·ason out of the way." 
One look at the sc:hedulc tells you that any 
part of the year would he "the toughest" for 
most sc.:hools. It is, by far. the toughest 
schcduk that Phdps has faced in his decade at 
Notre Dame. 
liCIA twice. San francisco twice. Virginia, Missouri. Kt·ntucky, LaSalle, Dayton and Mich­igan on tht· road. :VIarqucttc, DePaul, Man·land and North Carolina State at home. Tough, hut somcwhat unknown tcams like Murray State, Villanova, Idaho and Northern Illinois. 
Thcrc art·'vcry few breathers thcrc. 
"Sure, it's a tough schetlulc, but you need a tough schedule in college basketball today," Phelps says." Rt·memher. tht· regular season is only good for one thing: getting ready for the tournamt·nt. If you don't prqnre right, you don't makl· it, or you get knocked out early. 
"We ntTd tosteal somt· wins to get in the tournamt·nt this year -and that. a~ always, is our goal. ( >n paper, we mav not matc:h up with a lot ofteams. But on the court. we will match up with the best of thc.·m." 
It'~ hard to argue with Phelps. His track record is too good In I•>-·1 he upset UClA, breaking their HH-gaml· winning streak. with a team that was outmatched physically. In llJHO, he devised a way for hi~ front·c:ourt men to neutralize Ralph Sampson. arguably one of the best big nH·n ever to play c:ollege basket· ball. In between. there were memorahk up· sets ofSan Fransisco, De Paul and more. 
"Digger is the best coac:h in the c:ountry on game day," says Billy Packer. "His teams arc ready to play." 
"The guy is the ht•M at preparing his team for a game," agrees Bobby Knight. "He takes cac:h team he fac:es. and comes up with some u•a)' to heat them... 
.: lie is at his best when he's c:oaching t(>r a 
All-American 
Paxson exemplifieS team leader 
By LOUIE SOMOGYI Sports Writer · 
In the year ofquestion marks for Notre Dame basketball. at !cast there is one person whose name has been repeatedly mentioned with large marks ofexclamation. 
Out from the shadows ofNotre Dame's vcr· sion of the "Triumvirate Coundl" emerges a 
. guard who has had quite a burden plac:cd on his stocky 6-2 I HO-pound frame by faithful Irish tans. 
His calm under fire tlrst became evident when, as a freshman. ht· sank ti>ur free-throws in the final seconds against UCLA to defeat the Bruins in thc ACC. But it is the potential that was unveiled in his sophomore year which rt·ally started the buzzing. 
"If lsiah Thomas is the best guard in the country. then John Paxson should be con­sidned the second best," summarized Mar­quette assistant coach Rick .\lajcrus after his squad defeated Notre Dame at the buzzer in ,\lilwaukcc last year. 
Top that off with Paxson and UCLA's Rod Foster's sharing of the c:ovt·r ofStreet anti Smitb's midwest edition and Paxson's ap· pcarance on that magazinl·'s list ofthe top tt·n players in America for the pre-season. The pressure c:an mount quickly. 
As a result, there seems to he the popular beliefon c:ampus and around the nation that ti>r Notre Dame basketball to rcc:civc an in­vitation to the NCAA tournament next spring, Paxson will have to average ~0 points, a dozen assists and about I 0 steals a game. 
Hogwash, says his c:oach. Digger Phelps. 

"There is no doubt in my mind that John is one of the top guards in the country." main· taiilS Phelps, "hut ifpeople start looking at him as just someone who has to take over the scoring for .us, then they arc making quite a mistake. 
"John is a great teamplayer," he continues. "lie doesn't have to he even the leading scorer to show his true value to the team. I don't w·ant John to put that pressure on himself dthcr." 
Fear not, coac:h. John Paxson can takc care ofhimself He views his upcoming role for the squad with anticipation, hut also with surpris­ing assuredness. 
"I sec all the stuff people say about me and what I have to do this season as just a lot ofex­aggerations," says the Kettering, Ohio native with a shrug. "I realize that since I've played the most ofthe n·turning players(last year his 
Sec PAXSON, page 12 

Knight, Phelps 
Coaches match wits tonight 
By SKIP DESJARDIN 
Associate.\ports Editor 
"llold it. Hold it. What the hell arc you 
doing?" 
Nc:arly everyone under the ACC's south dome thought Digger Phelps was watching a zone defense drill going on at one end of the court. Somehow. though, he noticed that one of his assistants was at the other end of the floor, outlining options that Irish players had when defensing vari<)us inbounds plays against Indiana. 
"Well, the sec:ond man to break out of the line has the option of moving down-screen out of this formation," the assistant explains. .. I wanted these guys to be aware of it." 
"Forget it," Phelps barks. 
"But the films ..." "They won't run it," Phelps glares. "Just 
trust me. I know their system." 
The same typt· ofsituation may have arisen 
in Bloomington during tht·last few weeks. For 
Bobby Knight knows Phelps's system as well. 
The two old friends will match wits again 
tonight, as the Irish arc put to their first real · 
test of the young season. 
Patience will he the watchword for Notre Dame tonight. They arc looking to control the tempo ofthe game, and to do that they have to control the hall. That means no needless tur­novers, and no forced shots. 
"When we arc patient things will work for us," says Phelps. "We need to control this game, and make Indiana play the way we want them to. If we c:an do that we'll be in good shape." 
See HOOSIERS, page 10 

The Irish Extra -Basketball Tuesday, December 1, 1981 -page 6 
Senior Mitchell wants to prove himself in '81 

By MICHAEL ORTMAN 
Sports Editor 
In a season full ofunanswered questions, Irish fans definitely will get a chance to see ex­actly what II unproven players can and can­not do. One ofthose question marks has been an enigma ofsorts since the day he arrived at Notre Dame from California in I978. 
Mike Mitchell has stood alone for over three years. Digger Phelps' sole signee in the spring of I978, he was Northern California's Player of the Year after his senior year, having averaged an astounding 31 points a game. 
His freshman year at Notre Dame saw him filling a backup role behind mainstay Rich Branning, the pl;tymaking guard. 
"I was satisfied with things that year," he recalls. "I had plenty ofopportunity to play 
( 
13.4 minutes per game), and I was able to contribute. When that season was over, I remember being really optimistic about my future here." 

But things went steadily downhill from there. A preseason knee injury required sur­gery and caused Mitchell to miss the first several games ofhis sophomore campaign. He spent the rest ofthat year rebuilding his game, and the project never really was completed. 
Injuries hampered Mike Mitchell's col­"I thought my sophomore year was frustrat­legiate career from the start. Now the Irish ing," he says now, "until the end ofmy junior 
After first decade 

Digger contemplates his future 
By SKIP DESJARDIN 
Associate Sports Editor 

Years ago, Digger Phelps wrote a letter that 
would change his life. The young basketball 
coach informed Ara Parseghian, then Notre 
Dame's football mentor, that he was available 
whenever the University wanted a new bas­
ketball coach. It was his dream, he said, to 
coach under the Golden Dome. 

Phelps has been the head coach at Notre 
Dame for ten years now, and has turned the 
basketball program into one ofthe five most 
consistent in the country. But he's not the 
same man that wrote the letter to Parseghian, 
and he's not even the same man that devised a way for his team to snap UCLA's incredible 88­game winning streak. 
"I came here with a fantasy about Notre Dame," Phelps says. "And that fantasy became a reality. I love the fact that we can stand out -academicaly and athletically -and survive. We'll have our peaks and valleys, but we'll exemplify what Notre Dame stands for." 
The basketball program has come a long 
way in ten years, and so has Phelps. Those who 
see him every day, the people that work with 
him season after season see that. He's different 
offthe court than he used to be. He's matured. 
"I've grown to know what I am as a person," 
he says. "When I Hrst came here my life was 
nothing but basketball. My life has changed 
because ofwhat this university is-I've got­
ten caught up in it. 

"I think I've learned to put things in their 
place. And I can enjoy the good things in life 
that are out there." 

He's less flamboyant, and not as concerned 
with constantly being in the spotlight. On the 
day before a game, he's as intense as ever, but 
some ofthe edge is gone. He's easier to get 
along with. Put simply, he's getting older. 
"I think I can concentrate as a coach on the 
game itself," he says. "People say, 'He's not 
screaming and yelling like he used to.' 

"My technicals are down to none, actually. 
I'm more mature as a coach." 

More than that. he's matured as a person. 
"He is a lot different than he was ten years 
ago," says Dottie Van Paris, Phelps's secretary. 
"But it's not like you'd think. When he first got 
here he was very quiet -almost shy. But as he 
got used to the place, and had some success, 
he began to come out of his shell. 
"There is a big diference between the 

Digger you see on the court and the Digger 
who works in this office." 

In ten years, Phelps has come full circle. 
The .quiet, efficient teacher gave way to a 
brash, cocky floor commander. Now, when 
he's on the court, Phelps keeps up the image 
ofthe New York street-fighter. He wants to 
come offas the ringleader -the star ofevery show. But off the court, he is becoming more and more like the quiet, efficient teacher he was ten years ago. Offthe court, he's the Beacon, N.Y. suburbanite concerned with family, friends and doing the best job he can. 
"I'm still difficult to live with during the season, so I know it's tough on my family," he says. "I don't know ifthat will ever change, al­though I'm more aware ofit. I have trouble at times dealing with it, and I know it's tough on them." 
Life in the limelight has been tiring, and 
Phelps says he wants out -eventually. 
"I don't want to be in the limelight when I 
leave here," he says. "My ego's fine, it's been 
fed enough. Sometimes too much. I just don't 
want to be in the public eye after I'm done 
here." 

Off the court, Phelps is surprisingly quiet. He can, at the right time ofthe year, talk for hours about Van Gogh. He enthusiastically delves into the world ofErnie Sandene's poetry, never even mentioning that Sandene 
once wrote a poem about Phelps himself He's visibly touched when retelling stories about · visiting Logan Center. This is the human side ofPhelps never seen by the fans. 
The public Digger Phelps -the coach crouching at courtside -has changed in ten years as well. 
"I'm more involved in games now, as opposed to ten years ago when I was still learning and making mistakes," he says. "I still make mistakes, but not as many. 
"I love taking a game situation, and making adjustments to that game as it progresses. I try to stay three plays ahead ofeverybody and an­ticipate the next move. That's something I couldn't do when I came here." 
Looking back on a decade ofcoaching at 
Notre Dame, Phelps says he's proud ofthe ad­
vances that have been made by the program 
and the university. 

"Making this program a financial success was one of the major challenges when I came here," he says. "My background is in business, so I've marketed basketball. It's great to see us in a position where basketball takes over when the football season ends. That's very 
satisfying because it wasn't always that way here. 
"I love the things this university stands for, and the effect it has on people. Notre Dame has grown in the last ten years, as well, and for the better. It's turning out better people all the time." 
But what about the future? How long will 
Digger Phelps be around? 

"The second decade will be the last for me 
as a coach," he conf~sses. "Who J<:nows what 
I'll be doing then. I'd still like to be around this 
place, but not in the limelight. I think I'd 
rather be on the other side ofthe street 
(outside the athletic department). 1just 
believe in this place. Especially when it comes 
to academics and social awareness." 
Deep down inside, though, like all of us, 
Phelps has a fantasy about where he'll be 
when the 1990's arrive. 
"I'm behind the scenes," he says with a tone ofintrigue. "Bill Bradley is President. I'm his trouble shooter, and I meet Sergei Belov (the coach ofthe Russian National basketball team) in Paris some night. And we prevent a nuclear holocaust. 
"Maybe that's a wild fantasy. But if some­body from Washington said, 'Hey, listen. You could really help us, we've got it set up, and Belov's the contact.' We'd meet in the Louvre under a Van Gogh. 
"It'd make a great movie." 
Digger Phelps says his second decade as Notre Dame's basketball coach will be his 
year. That's when I realized things could get worse." 
Another preseason knee injury followed by another round ofarthroscopic surgery forced Mitchel to endure the frustration ofwatching I6 oflast season's 29 games. 
Now a senior, Mitchell sees his final Irish campaign as his big chance to set the record straigth and erase the past. "I'm ready," he says with an excited smile. "I'm in the best shape I've been in since high school, and I'm more confident than I've been in a long, long time." 
"He's a greatperson and deserves to be captain. It has nothing to do with playing time, and has everything to do with leadership.,, 
Ah, confidence -the thing wherein lies the 
key to Mike Mitchell's success or failure. And 
for the 1981-82 season, this business major is 
oozing with it. 

Being named the lone captain ofthis year's edition certainly cont t ributed to that. Many thought the all-everything junior, john Pax­son, was the natural choice for the team's leadership job. Yet Phelps went with seniority. 
"I always give the seniors a shot at it," says Phelps. "I told Mike when I recruited him that he'd be captain of the team. He's a great person and he deserves to be captain. It has nothing to do with playing time, and has everything to do with leadership." 
Visitors to practice over the last six weeks have seen a new man on the court wearing No. 
15. "He's been playing well and shooting well," says his coach with a sigh ofrelief "He's playing like he was the end ofhis freshman year when we were in Yugoslavia. Mike's got a lot ofknowledge ofour system and the mental experience that we need. We've got to let Mike just go out there and play. It's more ofa situation now of just letting Mike blend in. He's got to help us." 
And no doubt that will be Mike Mitchell's number one priority this year-"helping us." But there's a little more incentive for him. He's got a few lost years to make up for. 

The Irish Extra -Basketball Tuesday, December 1, 1981 -page 7 

Bill Varner 
Tim Andree 

By CHUCK GREENE 
Sports Writer 
When a team loses three of its top five players to graduation, its obvious that the team is going to put a very inexperienced team on the tloor. That is the case this season 
for our fighting Irish. With Kelly Tripucka, Orlando Woolridge, and Tracy jackson gone and joe: Kleine: as well, several players who saw limited action last year will be called on to make outstanding contributions to this year's squad. 'rwo such players are juniors Tim Andree and Bill Varner. 
At 6-10, 230-pounds, Andree has the size to 
be an excellent center. Astarter most of last season, Tim had some fine performances, such as those against Maryland and Virginia. This season he will be needed to provide strung inside play as Notre Dame's only true center. 

"Obviously, Timmy is going to play a major role in what we do this year," says Phelps. "He's shown that he has the ability to play with anyone -as he did against Ralph Sampson and Virginia. It'll be a challenge for him now that he knows he is our center -no ifs, ands or buts." 
Andree feels he's up to the challenge. "I've worked hard and I think that work will pay off. I have more responsibility than ever and I feel I'm ready for it." 
As for the outlook for this season's team, Andree thinks the media is selling them way short. "John Paxson is a great basketball player, but there is more to us than john. His support will be very strong once we gain some needed experience. In addition. we 

Kelly, Grassey, Love 
Walk-ons kno-w their roles 
By BILL MARQUARD 
Sports Writer 
walk-on, n, a small, usually nonspeaking part in a dramatic production. 
Although a Digger Phc:lps-directed team 
could easily be termed a "dramatic produc­
tion," Daniel Webster certainly was not 
watching this year's Irish squad when he 
tagged walk-ons as a small part. 
Walk-ons traditionally have been the also­
dressed on the roster, the: names at the bottom 
ofthe boxscore with the big DNP ("did not 
play")penciled alongside, the players the fans 
cheered for in the waning minutes ofa game 
the: Irish arc winning or in the opening 
minutes against Valparaiso. 
But behind the scenes, the walk-ons were 
the players who sat at practice for countless 
hours waiting to spell the "scholarship" 
players, who had to run windsprints with the 
best of them so that they were always ready 
just in case. 
Until this year. 
When the doors to Phc:Ips' recruiting stable 
were shut last spring, the Irish coach had but 
nine scholarship athletes, not even enough for 
two full squads at practice. With three-year 
walk-on veteran Marc Kelly already in tow, 
Phelps turned to the asphalt courts of Notre 
Dame's Bookstore Basketball Tournament 
and invited tourney stars Gary Grassey and 
Karl Love to join him for the 1981-82 voyage 
ofthe "Rat Pack." 
"At the beginning ofthe season, Digger told 
us that we all had roles, and that our success 
Playing key roles 
Andree, Varner recovering quickly 
have alot ofpride, and feel we can come 
through when we have to. We believe in our­
selvesand I think we'll be a tough team to beat 
before this season is over." 
Bill Varner, much like Andree, came to 
Notre Dame as a highly-touted high school su­
perstar, and has had two good years here. This 
season Varner is also expected to be one ofthe 
team leaders. At 6-6, 200-pounds, and with an 
especially strong sophomore season behind 
him, he seems ready to fill the role.. 
''I'm finally ready to start, after two years of 
waiting my turn on the bench. I think I've im· 
proved, but still need to mainrain intensity in 
the games." Varner is indeed rc::ady to start af· tcr playing in every game last season, shooting a blazing 53 percent from the field, and hitting for I 7 points against Belgrade before injuring his big toe. ' "Billy's been playing with a lot ofconsistency this fall," says Digger Phelps. "He's got to become our best defensive forward, and that's what we're trying to do right now. 
"He'll have: to play somebody that's 6-8, 
pretty quick, good rebounder · that's the type 
ofoffensive player we're going to go up 
against. I also feel he's got to make a contribu­
tion rebounding at both ends ofthe floor. 
That's one of the reason~ we recruited him. 
for his rebounding." 
Varner thinks the lack of respect from the 
media for this year's team is just fine. ''I'm glad 
they expect nothing from us. john will get alot 
ofconcentration which is also good beausc: 
they don't realize we have four other talented 
players." 
Ironically, both Andree and Varner have fal­len to injuries in preseason play. Andree suf­
fcrs from an ankle injury, while Varner has a dislocated big toe. Both an· expected to rciUrn against Indiana. 
would be dictated by how well each ofus per­
formed our roles," explained Kdly, a senior 
from La Crescenta, Calif. "The role ofGary, 
Karl and myself is even more important this 
year than the role: ofwalk-ons in years past, be­
cause due to injuries and a smaller team we 
have a more active role in practice." ' 
Grassey echoes Kelly's sentiments. 
"The primary role of the walk-on is to hc:Ip prepare the team for upcoming opponents," offered the pride of Hackettstown, N.J. "The past couplc of weeks we have been running Indiana's offense and defense so that th t e rest ofthe team is exposed to and practices against what they will be facing Tuesday in Bloomington." 
"I consider our preparing the team as im­
portant a role as any other," concurred Love, a 
product ofColumbia, Md. "I have come: to ac­
cept the fact that I probably won't play that 
much in game situations, but the: preparation 
of the team is the most important role we: 
play." 

One: would expect that Kelly, Grassc:y and 
Love would work and sweat primarily for 
those: few minutes ofglory at the end ofan 
Irish game:. But the trio all agreed that they 
took a lot of pride in the performance oftht· 
team they helped to prepare. 
"We can measure the contribution we 
make to the team in the performance of the 
squa<J that is on the floor," explained the 6-8, 
220-pound Grasscy. "If the team executes 
well offensively and defensively against a 
given team, then we know that we have done 
our job in practice." 
"Our walk-ons are assuming a much more prominent part in this year's team," remarked Phelps." Due to injuries and the small number ofplayers on the team, we have no choice but to use the walk-ons extensively in praticc ­and they arc doing the best they can do." 
Kelly, a three-year veteran !Jf the ACC hardwood and the only senior on the team besides Mike Mitchell, captains the blue team, composed ofGrassey, Love and freshmen Dan Duffand Ron Rowan. Kelly has scored 14 points during his 6 I -minute varsity career, dishing out six assists in the prot·css. 
"Although I don't play that much, I still feel that a lot ofthe younger players look up to me and Mitch," Kelly said. "That is a heavy responsibility in itself. It is fun to go in and play, too, but at this point in my career I take more satisfaction in seeing the team as a 
See WALK-ONS, page 11 


.-•-, ._. ,y­

~~"q • , , , , ;.. ,, ··.':.:I-. , •.J · _.. 
Marc Kelly 

1---------------------------------·
,4. OFF-CAMPUS ~ I 
1 Christma~ Cocktail Party db I 
I I
1 Thurs., Dec. 3 9:00-12:00 I 
I I 
I Tippecanoe Place Tickets $3.50 I 
I I
I Food and Live band included. I IALL 0-C STUDENTS AND FRIENDS INVITED1 
·---------------------------------! 

The Irish Extra Basketball Tuesday, December 1, 1981 -page 8 
Duff, Rowan making all 
the necessary adjustments 

Ron Rowan's versatility came in bandy forward when injuries hit the Irish in thepre­ear~y this season. The 6-5 shooterfilled in at season. (Photo byjohn Macor) 
Sluby, Spencer, Rucker contribute more and more 
wise.
By CHRIS NEEDLES 

"I'm surprised," Sluby says, "but there
Sports Writer 

doesn't seem to be much pressure at all on me or the others. I just go out there, playing my
In a year where Coach Digger Phelps faces a own style ofball, and do my best.
major rebuilding job because ofheavy losses, "We're adjusting pretty well, but it's still
a trio ofrather inexperienced sophomores going to take a little while longer. We just
will be depended on to do a lot ofgrowing up have to realize that those guys are gone and
in a hurry. we'll have to do it without them."
All three-forwards Tom Sluby, Barry Sluby was impressive in Saturday's victory,
Spencerand Cecil Rucker -were forced into scoring 1 7 points and adding four key assists.
starting roles in the season-opening victory But, in 32 minutes ofaction, he garnered just
over St. Joseph's because ofinjuries to junior two rebounds, after grabbing just one board
frontliners Bill Varner and Tim Andree. That against the Yugoslavs. ''I'm not rebounding
represents quite an adjustment for the trio, enough yet," admits Sluby. "I'll just have to go
which saw very limited action last season for to the boards tougher and box out a little bet·
the senior-laden squad. 
ter."

Well, at least there's no need to worry about For one reason or another, Barry Spencer
a sophomore jinx plaguing the Irish this has seen very little action in his last three
season. years ofbasketball, both at Notre Dame and in
Sluby, a 6-4, 200-pounder from Washing· high school at Detroit's Catholic Central. "It
ton, D.C.'s Gonzaga High School, managed to feels good to get in some playing time," Spen­
average 14 minutes per game last season, but cer said after Saturday's win. "I had a broken
played very little in key situations, although ankle my junioryear in high school, so I really
he was on the court for Danny Ainge's in­haven't played much ball the last three years."
famous "coast-to-coast" layup in the loss to The 6-7, 195-pound Spencer recovered
BYU in the NCAA Tournament. well from his 0-for-1 0 disaster in the Yugoslav
But even though he saw limited playing game to tally six points and grab 1 I rebounds
time, Sluby did show flashes ofbrilliance, against the Pumas before leaving in the
reminding some Irish observers offormer second half with a slight ankle sprain. "I see
Notre Dame and now·NBA All-Star Adrian my role as being one of the leading reboun·
Dantley. He averaged about three points a dcrs on the team," says Spencer. "I also have to
game, but shot just under 52 percent from the 
play good defense and keep the middlefield. Sluby feels that, despite his inex· clogged up.
perience, he is capable ofstepping into a start· "I don't feel any pressure to do much
ing position this season. scoring. All we have to do is move the ball
"I feel I'm pretty ready now," he says. "Last around and the points will come."
year was more ofa learning year for me. But I Cecil Rucker saw 3 7 minutes ofaction
know oursystem now, so I'm pretty confident against St. joseph's, which is just thr~e
I can do the job." minutes short ofhis total playing time all last 
One would think that most of the pressure season. The fact that he scored 22 points is not
ofreplacing the departed Kelly Tripucka and all that surprising, for Cecil's always been
Orlando Woolridge would fall squarely on the shoulders ofthe sophomores who will serve 
See SO PHS, page 11 

as their replacements. But Sluby thinks other· 
~................................................,....................................................., 
~ JUNIORS!!! ~ 
~ ~ ~ LOTTERY for Morris Inn rooms for ~ 
~ February 19-21 Junior Parents' Weekend will ~ 
~ be on Wednesday, December 2 in LaFortune ~ ~ Nazz ~ 
~ ~ 
~ 7:30pm. ~ 
.........................................................................................................~ 
By DAVE DZIEDZIC 
Sports Writer 
Rowan and Duff. Duff and Rowan. Ifyou haven't heard their names yet, you soon will, because Dan Duffand Ron Rowan may be the best pair offreshman guards to enter Notre Dame since Bill Hanzlik and Rich Branning. 
"Rowan and Duffcomplement each other excellently." says Irish head coach Digger Phelps. "Duff is the playmaker and Rowan is the shooter. They should be able to play well together." 
Rowan is 6-5 and weighs 185. Duff, who is five inches shorter than Rowan, is also two pounds heavier. But don't let that pudgy frame fool you -Duff is quick. Just ask Digger. 
"He's very quick on his feet," says Phelps. "And he's a terrific passer. He's had a lot oftur­novers in practice because the other guys aren't expecting his passes. He's the point guard that we were looking for." 
Duffs high school statistics exemplify his style ofplay. Last year at Lincoln Community High School in Lincoln, Ill., heaveraged 11 as· sists a contest. He holds the school records for most assists in a game ( 18), season ( 239) and career (622 ). Oh yes, Duffcan shoot as well. Last year he averaged 1 5 points a game. 
He was a starterall four years in high schooi, during which Lincoln compiled a I05-13 mark. He captained the squad his senior year, leading the team to a 28-1 record. Lincoln ad­vanced to the state finals during Duffs junior year. 
Duffhas been honored by several organiza­tions. He was named to the Adidas All-America team and participated in the Kentucky Derby and McDonald's classics last season. He was named to the lllinois AA all-state teams by the Associated Pre;;s and the United Press Interna­tional, as well as the Chicago Tribune. He was the most valuable player in the Big 12 Con­ference in his junior and senior years. 
"I'm an aggressive player," says Duff, who could be the hands-down winner ofa Stan Wil­cox look-alike contest. "I like to control the offense and set up my teammates. I get a lot of satisfaction when I make a good pass that leads to an easy shot." 
Duffthinks he arrived on campus at a good time. "Most ofthe guards here are upperclas­smen," he says, referring particularly to senior Mike Mitchell and juniorJohn Paxson. "I hope to be able to contribute right away. I'll be able to give the starters a rest while adjusting to college ball." 
Duff is aware that many basketball obser­vers are predicting a tough year for the Irish. especially because ofNotre Dame's lack of height. "That's okay," he says. ''I'm used to playing on small teams. Last year our tallest guy was 6-4, and we ended up ranked 17th in the nation. We played the way that Notre Dame will have to play this year -agressive, hard-nosed basketball." 
Rowan also comes to Notre Dame with im­pressive statistics. He averaged 27 points, 13 rebounds, 6. 5 assists and 3.8 steals last season at Beaver Falls High School in Beaver Falls, Penn. He owns the school record for most points in a season (672). · 
Obviously, college coaches heard about Rowan's fine shooting ability, as he was recruited heaviiy. Ohio State, Virginia, and In· diana are some ofthe other schools that con· tacted him. 
"Everybody considers me a great outside shooter," Rowan says, "but I think that I can score from anywhere. I like to drive to the bas­ket." 
Even though Rowan will eventually play guard for the Irish, he was moved to forward last week due to injuries to Bill Varner and Tim Andree. "Right now, Ron is our first for­ward offofthe bench," Phelps says. "Against St. joseph's (last Saturday) he played e~cel­lent forward defense. We can tell he's a hard worker." 
Like Duff, Rowan realizes that this could be a tough year for the Irish. "It might be a tough year, but we can do well if we work hard. We are going to have to want to win more than the other team." 
Rowan was on the receiving end ofanum­ber ofawards, as well. Acclaimed as an All­American by Converse, Adidas,Basketba/1 Weekly,Street an Smith,Basketbal/News and Coach and Athlete, He was twice named player-of-the-year in the Western Pennsylva­nia Interscholastic Athletic League. And as if all that is not enough, Rowan played in the McDonald's, Akron Cage, Derby, and Dapper Dan classics. 
Both Rowan and Duff were on campus last Feb. 8 when UCLA defeated Notre Dame by one point amidst the clamoring crowd ofthe ACC. "I thought that the arena was loud during the state high school tournament last year," Duffsays. "But I've never witnessed anything as exciting as the UCLA-Notre Dame game." 
"It was unbelievable," Rowan says ofthe ex­perience. "I'm glad I didn't have to play for UCLA that day." 
But is Notre Dame's dynamic duo ready for the noise and pressure that college basketball is known for? "We can handle it," says a confi· dent Rowan. "I think the enthusiasm could help to improve my game. It won't take long 
See FRESHMEN, page 12 


Tom Slubv 
Barry• Spencer 

The Irish Extra -Basketball Tuesday, December 1, 1981-page 9 

Irish women 

Top-flight freshtnen -w-ill contribute 

By KELLY SULLIVAN 
Sports Writer 

Thanks to a wp-rate recruiting effort that 
welcomed fin-blue-chip freshmen to the 

Nmre Dame campus, a very new and vastly 
improved Notre Dame women's basketball 
team will take the tloor this season. 

Along with her cast of rookies, second-year coach Mary DiStanislao will look for support from her six returning veterans who now have a ~cason ofDivision I competition under their belts. The Irish, who jumped to the big 
leagues a year ago, figure to considerably bet­ter the I0-18 mark they notched in 1980-81. 
"We'll win if we play as a tt·am whose sole aim is to improve every game," DiStanislao of­fers. "Last season was very much a transition year. We played in a new division. I was new here and the demands ofa tougher schedule presented a new cxcrience to the players." 
DiStanislao is breathing easier now that her team has some idt'a what to expect. 
"We've made that transition. We've faced a power like South Carolina. We know what it taks to play the best teams in the country. Now it's time to put our nose to the grindstone and become one ofthe best teams in the country." 
To achit've that goal, DiStanislao says she'll employ a liberal substitution policy enabling her to usc several different combinations in the lineup. 
"I like knowing I have eight or nine start­ers," she explains. "It's hard to play people 40 minutes anymore. We're going to utilize the 
Mary D. tries to build another winning team here 
By MARK HANNUKSELA 
Sports Writer 
The interview is nearly over. 
She stands, walks across the thick, blue­
plush carpeting that covers the floor ofher 
office, and takes something off the top of her 
desk. 
"There's no reason for this," she says, revealing tht· coverofthe December 4 issue of Basketball Week~y. Pictured is Camden (N.J.) High School's Billy Thompson, the most sought-after high school basketball player in the country. 
She returns to the sofa that aligns the room's 
rear wall, still holding the publication. 
"The women are getting to be just as bad," sht· says. "They're all anxious to see what they can read ahuut themselves. It's just hype." 
Mary DiStanislao is not one to play on the fanaticism of the basketball-savoring public. In a ~ense, she's like Digger Phelps, the man who was largely responsible for making her the first full-time women's basketball coach at Notre Damt·. On the floor, she is constantly vbablc. She attracts the attention of the tan, leaving the players free to concentrate on littk things likt· shooting, rt·bounding and winning game~. 
She's also like her men's counterpart in that sht· hails from the East, and has a rather liberal substitution policy. She draws comparisons in other areas as well. 
"I've walked into arenas for the first time 
and heard sorm·hody in the stands yell 'Sit 
down. Digger.' That may he meant as 
criticism, hut professionally, I consider it a 
compliment. lie's a masterful strategist and 
tactition. 
"I'm in a diflt:rent game and at a different kvel than ht· is, th<mgh," DiStanislao adds. "We're just another team competing for time here, whik he started with a program that was second only to football in attracting attention, although ht· had a good hit ofbuilding to do af­terJohnny Ike left." 
That's another comparison that people are likdy to make a few year~ down the road. DiS­tanislao's aim is to build a program similar to tht· one Digger built in the mt·n's program, a program similar to tht· one DiStanislao herself built while the head co;Kh at Northwestern. In 11vc seasons at the Wildcat helm, the New .Jersey native compiled a 90-27 record. Her 11nal two squads earned trips to the AlAW na­tional tournamt·nt, and reached the quarter­
t1nab both times. The 78-79 dub came within 
a game of reaching tht• Final Four. 
Aformer playerat Douglass College in New 
Brunswick, N.J., ("They're good now; they 
wnc lousy then," she says) DiStanislao's over­all coaching record, including a year at Notre Dame, is 100-45. She reached the century mark in career victories, after failing in seven previous tries, with a 59-58 win over the Uni­versity of Alaska at Anchorage in a season­ending tournament. 
Last season's I0-18 mark included losses to such national powers as Viii t anova, Marquette, South Carolina, Michigan and Virginia. Four of those games were double-header games com­ing either right before or right after men's games between the same two schools. Four more double-headers are scheduled for this season. But they are about to stop. 
"I think Friday is a good night for us to play," says Mary D. "I don't like the double-headers -ifwe play after the men, then it's anti­climactic; ifwe play before, it's usually too early. The UCLA game (scheduled for Satur­day at 10:30 a.m.) is going to be a real snore. 
"We havt· to cultivate our own audience. That's another reason I want to play on Fridays. Besides, it will give the students something to do before heading out to Corby's." 
With that, the interview end1>. Hcfore leaving, almost as an afterthought, the repor­ter asks if she is ready for the season that begins Thursday. 
Quietly, the coach says "Nervous" while nodding yes. ''I'm like this for every season, though," she adds. "You have to be willing to 
eat, sleep and drink basketball for four months, it's your responsibility for that time. If you don't live it for four months, you just can't do it. You can spend the rest ofthe time cultivating yourselfas a three-dimensional person." 
Surely, though, there has to be at least some respite during such a busy period. 
"Oh, I try to get away from basketball at least an hour or so every day," she says. "I do it by playing Suzie Homemaker, by cooking or cleaning house. They'rt• pretty pedestrian things. but they work. 
"I've also been blessed with friends who might give me a bricf'How's the season 

· going?' then turn the conversation to other things." DiStanislao admits very candidly that "Being a coach at Notre Dame is an ego trip," but adds that, at 30, she realizes that there has "got to be something after basket­ball." But as for her immediate plans, well, they are simple. 
''I'll stay here as long as they'll have me. I really think that this can be the greatest program in America. Ofcourse, the people who play under you arc the ultimate judges. If they are better tiJr it, if you can do something special for them, then that's all you can ask out oflife." 
assets ofall our players to show our op­
ponents different fooks. We have a lot ofcon­
fidence in the people we have and their ability 
to contribute." 
One familiar contributor is senior captain 
Missy Conboy, who has earned a pair of 
monograms at her forward post. The 5-8 spark 
plug from Tuscaloosa, Ala., averaged 2.9 
points aift!t 2.6 rebounds in her role as Notre 
Dame's supersub, but DiStanislao insists her 
value can't be measured statistically. 
"Missy provides a lot ofleadership for us," 
says her coach. "She's very aggressive on the 
court, and she teaches the younger kids by ex­
ample. Missy typifies the way we want our 
team to play." 
Notre Dame's catalyst on the front line is two-time letter winner and last year's leading scorer and rebounder, Shari Matvey. The 6· 1 junior out ofYoungstown, Ohio, who rewrote most ofthe Irish record books her rookie season, is already Notre Dame's all-time leading scorer and ranks second in rebound­ing. She finished the 80-81 campaign boasting a 14.8 scoring average, while rebounding at a 7.6dip. 
"There's no doubt that Shari can score points for us," DiStanislao confirms. "What she's had to work on is her defense, and she's shown great improvement in that area." 
Other contenders vying for a spot up front include the freshman trio of6-0 Carrit: Hates, 5-1 0 Ruth Kaiser and 6-I Mary Beth Schueth. 
"The most e;xciting thing on this team is its 
youth," admits DiStanislao. "We have a 
tremendous nucleus for the future of Notre 
Dame basketball. These freshmen are a very 
talented lot." 
Bates, a Kansas City, Mo., native averaged 20 points and 10 rebounds per contest as a senior at Hickman Hills High School, while gaining t1rst-tcam all-state honors three con­secutive seasons. She also was named to the 
Parade All-America squad. DiStanislao describes Kaiser as "total enthusiasm on the court." The Tempe, Ariz., product helped her prep squad finish as state champion in 1980 and runner-up in 1981. And Schueth, a record­breaker at Indianapolis' Perry Meridian High School, merited all-state selection last year af­ter shooting at a 23-points-per-game mark, 
while pulling down 12 rebounds and dishing 
out four assists an outing. ' 
A number ofable-bodied candidates fill the 
Irish backourt picture. Sophomore Jenny 
Klauke heads the list ofveterans at guard. The 
5-9 Glenview, Ill., native, Notre Dame's first 
woman to receive an athletic grant-in-aid, 
posted a I 0.2 scoring mean last season, 
second best on the team. She'll be presst•d by 
returnees Theresa Mullins (3.9 ppg. ), a 5-6 -­
sophomore, and Debbie Hensley (0.9 ppg.), a 
5-6 junior. 
"Jenny and Theresa arc hoth solid players," 
praises their coach. "They hoth came back on 
top oftheir game. And Debbie's developed in­
to a fine point guard for us-she'll see a lot of 
playing time as well." 
A pair of newcomers, 5-I 0 freshman Laura Dougherty and 5-9 freshman Susan Neville, also have their sights set on a starting berth at guard. 
Dougherty, a superb ballhandler, was named to several prep All-America team~ following an outstanding career at Pascack Valley High School in Hillsdale, N.J. She averaged 22.7 points and dght assists last season en route to her squad's 30-0 record. Neville, a pacesetter at Decatur (Ala.) High School, postd marks of 20 points and eight rebounds per ~ame. 
"Laura's an intelligent and well-coached 
player," DiStanislao adds, "and Susan boasts 
quickness which we'll utilize in fast-break 
situations." 
Others arc prepared to lend a hand this year 
include two walk-ons, juniorJan Crowe, who 
was sidelined early last winter due to 
academic difficulties, and freshman Janice 
Monagle. 
"I feel really good about this season," con­dudes DiStanislau. "We know what to expect. We need to just take practice one day at a time, and take our games one at a time. Ifwe do that, we'll take our program up one year at a time, too." 
The Irish, who tackle a schedule that in­dudes national powers DePaul, Missouri, South Carolina and UCLA, will be eligible to compete in the first-ever NCAA Women's Bas­ketball Championships. 


... 
-----------~----­
f 
The Irish Extra -Basketball Tuesday, December 1, 1981 -page 10 
Big changes due for the 'new-look' Belles team 
Dallessio's 1981-82 edition will be striking­
By DAVE WILSON 

ly different from last year's. "You'll sec
!l'jJorts Writer 

some new things in the offense," says Dalles­sio. "We want to press a little more, and mostAs the Saint Mary's Belles get underway importantly, we want to speed up the wholewith the 1981-82 basketball season, fans can 
pace ofthe game. We don't have the depth
expect to see not only a number of new faces inside that we did last year, but I think that canon the squad, but some noticeable changes in 
be made up for with speed and more con­
the game plan as wdl. Jerry Dallessio enters centration."
his fifth year as head coach of the team, and is quite optimistic in his outlook ofthe challeng­ing season ahead. 
The Belles dropped a close contest to "I think we'll be a better team than last Kalamazoo Valley Community College 10 year," says Dallessio "I'm not predictinga bet­days ago in the season opener, 56-52, but Dal­ter win-loss record necessarily, but I think lessio was pleased. Armstrong led the Belles 
we're a better team." 

with 16 points, while Sitlington added I 1 The Belles take a 1-1 record into tomor: points and seven rebounds, and Lisa Schirz row's game with visiting Tri-State. The game is pulled down eight rebounds. Bayless had an scheduled for 7 p.m. in the Angela Athletic 
outstanding night with II assists, and Van Ort Facility. 
made a remarkable debut with 15 points and "There's a good attitude out there on the eight rebounds. 
court. The girls are really working, and they're 
The Belles posted their first win ofthe noticeably more competitive than last year's 
young season last Tuesday over visitingsquad." 
Kalamazoo College, 98-43. Van Ort had anoth­The team has been reduced to 12 pit ayers, er impressive night -22 points and eightthree less than last year, and Dallessio sees the 
rebounds. Nolan contributed 16 points and change as an improvement in team character. 
Sitlington added 14. Suess and McGinnis "We've got 12 quality kids out there," he chipped in 1 1 a piece.
says. "A smaller roster allows more playing "The Kalamazoo game was a good chance time and less bench time for each girl, and that to let everyone get in some playing time," said 

should boost team confidence." Senior captain Missy Conboy will lead
Dallessio. "We looked very, very good

Three juniors, three sophomores and six Notre Dame's women's basketball team in
tonight."

freshmen make up lhis year's squad, which will attempt to defend last year's district and Roundball Classic championships. 
Dallessio takes his game very seriously
"The girls are really 

By SARA ZAPPIA show a definite improvement. I let them know when they're doing things working, and they're Sports Writer During his third season at SMC, the 1980-81 right. This helps to build their confidence." Belles became the winningest basketball team The Belles are a young team consisting ofnoticeably 1nore competitive "Hard work and and confidence are the key in the school's history with a 15-11 mark. three juniors, three sophomores, and six to being successful." They also took the District Championship as freshmen. Dallessio sees this as an advantage.
than lastyear's squad." 

That's the philosophy that SMC head bas­well as finishing third in the state. "The juniors and sophomores provide the ketballJerry Dallessio will be trying to instill Akey factor in turning the Belles into a win­team with leadership both on and off the 
Junior Mary Pat Sitlington is the Belles' in his players this season. ning team is Dallessio's outlook on the sport. court, while the freshmen contribute a very starting center, and juniors Anne Armstrong "Ifyou work hard but don't believe in your­"I take basketball very seriously, and that's an competitive attitude to the team." and Mary Bayless lead offat guard. Bayless is a self, your work will go to waste," stated Dalles­understatement. It's my life." While his team may be young, Dallessio is transplanted forward replacing last year's sio. "You can't have one without the other and He believes that team effort and attitude are instilling in it some qualities that he feels will standout guard, Tracee Hargreaves. hope to be successful." This philosophy has also necessary ingredients for a winning take the Belles far this season. "Finishing third 
"Mary has improved tremendously," Dalles­helped to bring about definite improvements season. "I give them 100 percent in preparing in the state last year and beinga tough tourna­sio says. "I think her effectiveness as a player .in the SMC basketball program. them for a game, and I expect them to give me ment opponent, proves to us that the state has been increased by the move from forward Dallessio, a 1974 Notre Dame graduate, is 100 percent whenever they're on the court." championship is a definite goal for the to guard." not a stranger to women's basketball. Before How is the player-coach relationship on season." He's a coach with confidence in him­
At the forward spots, Dallessio has placed coming to SMC, he coached in NewJersey as this young and rising team? Well according to selfand his team. "A good description ofour sophomore Lisa Schirz and freshman Melissa well as at St. Joseph's High School in South Dallessio it's just fine. "We have a mutual group this season is a hardworking team with Van Ort (filling in for injured sophomore Bend. In 1978 he brought his winning respect. They may not always agree with me, a competitive attitude. This is the best group Gretchen Meyer). Sophomore swingman philosophy and style to SMC and the records but they listen and do what I tell them. In turn, ofgirls we've had in my four years at SMC." 
.Cyndy Short will back up at both forward and guard. "We won't be set as a team until Gretchen returns to the line-up," Dallessio admits of 
• • • Hoosiers 
Meyer. "We could be really hurting without her." Meyer is expected to return in time for the Rock sometimes, with graduate students, pleased with the team's performance against
continuedfrom page 5 

the annual clash between Saint Mary's and walk-ons and assistant coaches playing major Miami. Notre Dame one week from tonight. roles. But, finally, Phelps will have all 12 "I feel really sorry for Miami," he said Satur­
The team's shape has been Phelps's majorBesides Van Ort, the freshman members of players available tonight. day. "I've always thought that the team that
concern thus far. Injuries have devastated the this year's squad include Teresa McGinnis, "Having Andree and Varner back in the line­plays the best ought to win the game. They
squad in the pre-season. First Tim Andree tore Elaine Suess, Trisha Nolan, Chip Ayotte and up is a big plus for us," Phelps says. "flut we outplayed us in every department today, and
ligaments in his ankle during a practice ses­Kathy Murphy, all ofwhom have potential, still don't expect either ofthem to be at 100 it's a shame they didn't win."
sion. Then Bill Varner dislocated a toe, and 
according to Dallessio. percent." That's Knight at his best. 
Tom Sluby banged up his shoulder when he "Missy (Van Ort) seems to improve by the The Hoosiers will be hurting as well. Don't Tonight, he and Phelps will both be at their
collided with the basket's upright against
day," he says, "and we're looking for some look for the team that swept through the best. They've worked for weeks preparing or
Yugoslavia. In the season opener with St. Joe's good support from Elaine Suess and Teresa NCAA tournament to the national champion­this matchup, and they each think they have
Barry Spencer and Cecil Rucker twisted their 
McGinnis. All the players will come around ship to take the court at Assembly Hall the system for beating the other.
ankles, and Dan Duff strained a thigh muscle. 
with time and playing experience." tonight. For now, Knight's system is secret. Phelps's
Practices have looked like pick-up games at is simple. 
Wunderkind Isiah Thomas is in the NBA. So "Deny Kitchell and Wittman," he says. is Ray Tolbert. Landon Turner has been "That's what we have to do. Besides that, we confined to a wheelchair by a tragic auto acci­just'have to concentrate, be consistent and 
dent. Glen Grunwald graduated, as did Steve crash the boards. Ifwe do those things right,
-Ibe-0-bse--~~e.r­
---------A.~Y~ --
Risley. we'll win." This won't even be the same team that IRISH ITEMS -The game is set to begin at
is. accepting ap.plications for the .position of snuck by Miami (Ohio), 71-64, Saturday. 7:30p.m. (EST) ...The Madison Square Gar­Freshman forward Rick Rowray broke his arm den TV network will televise tonight's gamecopy editor. in Sunday's practice, and is out indefinitely. to cable systems across the country ...Marv
. .. 0~. 

What you will see tonight is somewhat ofan Alpert and Bucky Waters will handle the
Oo (J Qo· 0'" unknown Indiana team. Freshman lJwe Blab, announcing chores ...All I 7,000 of the seats 7-2, will start at center. Blab is a superb ath­in Assembly Hali have been sold. and reports 
lete, but his co-ordination and finesse are are that tickets to tonight's game are among 
questionable. Guard jimmy Thomas showed the toughest to come by in years ...The last his potential in the late-going last year, but has time the Irish and the Hoosiers met was last yet to prove himselfover the long haul. 
Dec. 9, when Notre Dame won, 68-64 ...The The keys to the Hoosier offense are Randy Hoosiers grabbed a narrow 67-66 win in 1977 Wittman and Ted Kitchell. Wittman, a 6-5 
in the last game in Blomington between the 
shooting guard, runs the show on offense. He two schools ...Indiana leads the series, which is the floor leader, much asJohn Paxson is for dates back to 1908, 28-16 ...Only Michigan the Irish. Kitchell is the driving force in the State, with 35, has more wins against Notre frontcourt. The 6-8 forward has big shoes to Dame ...Six ofthe last ten Irish-Hoosiers fill now that Tolbert and Turner are gone, but clashes have been decid.::d by four points or 
.... he's more than equal to the task. less ...Notre Dame's travelling squad left "We just don't know what to expect from South Bend last night at 8 p.m., and is this season," Knight says. "We're going to have scheduled to practice here today ...the team
Applications are due by 12:00 Friday. 
to wait and see." will return to Notre Dame by bus immediately One thing is certain, Knight was not at all after the game. 

The Irish Extra -Basketball Tuesday, December 1, 1981 -page 11 

this year. See Chris Needles's profile of the 
Cecil Rucker and his classmates will play 

sophomores on page B. (Photo by john 
a L'ital role in any success the Irish achieve 
Macor) 

continuedfrom page 8 
known as a deadeye shooter after hitting '>~ percent ofhis shots freshman year. What came as a shock was his game-high 15 rebounds. 
"I was on a very intensive weight program all summer," says Rucker. "That helped a lot. But what helped the most was Coach Oohn) Shumate. He worked with me day and night, on any court we could find, and we'd just work on rebounding. 
"He told me to use my jumpingability to my advantage, and it seems to be working." It's a known fact that Digger has been on 
Rucker's back all during the pre-season, motivation to keep me on my toes. It makes me work harder and gets me in a position criticizing his every move. "Actually, I kind of like it," says Rucker. "I think I need that kind of where I can never relax." 
"I was really pleased with Cecil," com­mented Phelps after Saturday's game. "He's a big plus for us when he rebounds like that. He still has to work on his endurance, but he's coming around." 
Phelps originally planned to have a fourth sophomore coming off the bench this season to aid his team's cause, butjoe Kleine decided to transfer to Arkansas. "I really thinkJoe wanted to stay here," says Phelps. "He enjoyed it here at Notre Dame and he was a Dean's List student. 
"But it was probably his dad that forced him to transfer. He didn't like the fact that his son 
• • • Walk-ons 
continuedfrom page 7 
whole do well -then I know I've done my 
part." 
"Being a senior, Marc is obviously the most 
experienced walk-on we have," recounted 
Phelps. "Marc means a lot more to us than the 
30-foot rainbow jump shots he makes at the 
end ofa game. He plays quite a part in 
practice." 
Grassey, a dean's list economics major, found himselfin Digger's office last April after a successful Bookstore campaign. 
"Digger asked me to get in shape this sum• mer so that I could go hard for a full practice;" described the part-time Observer ~portswriter. "He wants me to assume a physi­cal role on the team, and thus give the for­wards and centers a· rough workout underneath. 
"Digger isn't as concerned about Marc and 

Karl and I making mistakes as much as he is 
concerned that we hustle amd give as much as 
we can for as long as we can. Effort is the most 
important thing. 
Despite the satisfaction he enjoys when he 
sees the team performing well, Grassey was 
still thrilled when he stepped onto the ACC 
court for the first time against St. Joseph. 
"That was without a doubt the biggest thrill ofmy athletic career. There is really no way to describe it." 
Against St. Joseph, Grassey and Kelly even enjoyed a few light moments on the bench, particularly when Love was called on for a brieffirst-half playing stint. 
"I turned to Marc and told him that the way things were going he had better be ready to guard Rod Foster," mused Grassey as he thought about Saturday's UCLA game. 
• • • Sophs 

wasn't playing that often. Ofcourse, he didn't realize that Adrian Dantley, when he was a freshman, only averaged about six minutes a game, and look what he's done." 
So, it will be up to Tom Sluby, Barry Spencer and Cecil Rucker to provide the Irish with the necessary depth to compete on the national level. "People look at the players we lost," says Phelps, "and they can't see how we'll be very good. Well, the kids who sat the bench last year will show people they can play. 
By season's end, these "unknowns" may become household words -it all depends on how much growing up they do. And with In­diana, UCLA, Kentucky and Missouri on the schedule before the new year, these sopho­mores ~houldn't stay green for very long. 
"Gary is in the best shape he has been in since high school," said Phelps. "He has worked very hard on his own to ~elp us out." 
Love, a vetera t n of the Masters of Disaster, who fell in the semi-finals oflast year's Bookstore classic, was named to the Bookstore all-star team when he caught Phelps' eye. 
"Karl is a very good shooter and a smooth player," explained the Irish coach. "And he works just as har.d as Gary and Marc to prepare..-.. himselfand the i~am." 
((/turned to Marc and told him ... he had better be ready to guardRod Foster." 
"Digger expects good things from us, but I expect even better things from myself," the junior guard remarked. "Becoming a part of the Notre Dame team has been my biggest thrill in athletics and I want to live up to that. 
"I played against All-Americans in high school and a few all-staters in Bookstore, but I think the caliber ofcompetition I am facing here in the collegiate level is the biggest dif­ference for me. I am really becoming familiar with the strategies and thinking process in­volved in the game of basketball." 
"It has been a big transition for Gary and Karl from Bookstore to varsity, and a big change for Marc since he is taking a more active role on the team," remarked Phelps. "I don't know where we would be without these guys." 

~-ll\(i!••tt~-1.41 
Thank You 

Tonight we will present a check for nearly $2,400 to the Landon Turner Fund. Your generosity has been 
greatly appreciated. 
The Observer 

Someold-fashioned reasonsto spend the holidaysat our house. 
....Marvel at old-fashioned deco­rations from our special house decorat­ing contest. 
.._... See a spectacular gin~erbread house created by Chef Ray. 
....Help us make this Christmas spe­cial for everyone by contributing at Tip­
~ l'onllth·ntal Rt·~lauranl S~~lt·m~. HIHi' 
pecanoe Place to the Marines' Toys for Tots program. 
•vSee our fabulous Christmas tree in the Grand Hall beautifully decorated by community groups. 
So start a new tradition for your family this season. Come home to Tippe­canoe Place for the holidays. 
Special Holiday Events This Week 
•··· Tues., Dec. 1st: 
Chef Ray Bertschy demonstrates how to make a Yule log. Recipe will be given . Classes free, but limited to 15. Sign up now. 
._... Thurs., Dec. 3rd: 
Decorations from South Bend's Clay Middle School go on display in Grand Hall. 
._... Fri., Dec. 4th, 6 pm: 
Tree lighting ceremony with 
Ann Kolata, director of dep't. of 
economic development and 
redevelopment. 

Be sure to look for this ad announcing our weekly events of the season. 
620 W. Washington, South Bend, 234-9077 Reservations available. 
.. 

F ~----~ --­
The Irish Extra -Basketball Tuesday, December 1, 1981 -page 12 
• • • Paxson 

continuedfrom page 5 
37-minutes per game led the entire squad) 
that people are pointing to me to play a big 
part for the team. What they don't realize is 
that we still have a lot ofgood returning 
players who can also get the job done well for 
us." 
Yet, there is no doubt that a lot will revolve 
around Paxson's·abilities and experience. 
Phelps has stated that he wants the basketball 
in Paxson's hands 70 percent ofthe time when 
the Irish are on offense. From there, his penetrating, shooting and passing talents take charge. 
'"I definitely will have to contribute more 
this year," admits Paxson. "Last year my job 
was quite easy at times in just having to feed 
the ball off to the seniors whenever we 
needed a score. 
"But this is something I've waited for ever 
since I came here," explains Paxson of the 
take-charge role he is to assume on the court 
this year. "It will be a challenge, but I'm 
looking forward to it with confidence." 
What is surprising about Paxson is that in a 
year when he'll make most All-America teams, 
he refuses to set any particular goals for him­
self. 
Says Paxson, "I never try that. Ifl go into any 
game thinking 'I've got to score 20 or more 
points today ifwe are to win,' then it leads to a 
very bad habit ofbeginning to force things­
things that you aren't really capable ofdoing. 
Then you start making all kinds of mistakes 
that can really destroy a team." 
It's the same system that Paxson followed last year. And for some reason he always 
seemed to perform best against the other top 
guards in the country. His best scoring nights 
( 22, 21, 20 and 18 points) came against All­
Americans Quinten Daily (San Francisco), 
Foster, Zam Frederick (South Carolina) and 
Thomas. 
"Psychologically, those games gave me the confidence to know I could compete against some ofthe top players in the nation, Those games arc really just examples ofhow I try to take whatever the situation offers,'' says Pax­son, whose 9.9-point points per game doesn't really tell the story. "We either got into a run­ning game with those teams -which always helps a guard's scoring average -or things just opened up for me. 
"All I ever try to do is go out and play the hardest I can because that's all you can really ask ofanybody," he continues. "From there it's a matter ofdoing the best I can for the team by taking advantage of whatever they offer us. Whether that calls for me to be a passing or shooting guard doesn't matter." 
And how does Paxson feel about this year's "Rat Pack?" 
"We will just have to wait and see," he smiles. "Ifl, orany ofus, go into a game with a pessimistic attitude, though, we shouldn't be out there on the court. I'm optimistic. We've worked really hard this year, and I think a lot ofour players who haven't had the chance to show their stuffbefore are ready to show what they can really do." 
WithJohn Paxson leading the new, but talented, crop ofNotre Dame basketball players, Irish fans shouldn't be pessimistic either. 
Dan Duff will see a great deal of action the talented freshman's leadership. See Dave this season. Digger Phelps is impressed with Dziedzic's story on page 8. (Photo byJohn Macor) Freshmen• • • adjusting quite well. "I've had to learn how tocontinuedfrom page 8 manage my time,'' Duffadmits. "The other o get used to the noise." guys on the team have been great. They're all Duff is a little less optimistic. "It might be helping me learn the ropes." ough to play on the road," he says. "I'm sure Rowan quickly noticed the difference be­0 ther gyms can get as loud as the ACC." tween high school and college practices. Rowan and Duff cite similar reasons for "Practices here are so organized," he ob-choosing Notre Dame overother universities. serves. "They don't seem so long." 'Academics was a major concern of mine," What can we expect ofour new guard tan-Duff says. "There are other things in life dem, Digger? "The freshman year is always a besides basketball." growing year,'' Phelps replies. "We are not Rowan agrees. "Notre Dame has the best that deep this year, so maybe Rowan and Duff combination ofaca&:mics and athletics will be called on early. But it will take time for availablc," says the business major-to-be. "I them to get used to our system." was also attracted by Notre Dame's com-So as the Irish jump right into things petitive schedule and great publicity. (Indiana tonight and UCLA Saturday), keep Being a college freshman is tough enough your eyes tuned for the freshman guard tan-without the added pressure of practices and dem of Rowan and Duff. You'll be seeing a lot scrimmages, but Rowan and Duff seem to be ofthem soon.  Rosters Notre Dame Men No. Player Pos. Ht. Wt. Yr. Hometown 13 Barry Spencer F 6-7 195 So. Detroit, Mich. 15 Mike Mitchell G 6-2 175 Sr. San Bruno, Cal. -21 Gary Grassey F 6-8 220 Sr. Hackettstown, N.J. 22 Dan Duff G 6-0 187 Fr. Lincoln, Ill. 23 John Paxson G 6-2 180 Jr. Kettering, Ohio 24 Ron Rowan G-F 6-5 185 Fr. Beaver Falls, Pa. 25 Marc Kelly G 5-10 160 Sr. La Crescenta, Cal. 31 Karl Love G-F 6-4 180 Jr. Columbia, Md. 33 Tom Sluby G-F 6-4 200 So. Washington, D.C. 34 Bill Varner F 6-6 200 Jr. New Kensington, Pa. 43 Cecil Rucker F 6-8 190 So. Washington, D.C. 53 Tim Andree c 6-10 230 Jr. Farminton, Mich.  

Notre Dame Men Final1980-81 Statistics Player GIGS MiniAvg FGIFGA Pet FTIFTA Pet RebiAvg PFIFO A PIS Avg Tnpucka 29129 919/31 7 1951354 .551 1371168 .815 16915.8 8112 81 527 18.2 Woolndge 28128 924133.0 1561240 .650 901135 .667 16816.0 6710 40 402 14.4 Jackson 28128 942133.6 157/282 .557 46165 738 15615.6 4610 59 362 12.9 Paxson 29129 1062/36.6 1131218 .518 61189 685 53/1.8 6111 138 287 9.9 Varner 2912 504117.4 531100 .530 36158 621 6012.1 3011 41 142 4.9 Sluby 2710 377114.0 36/70 .514 14121 667 3811 4 5110 30 86 3.2 Andree 28118 390113.9 30156 .517 16129 .552 5812.1 64/1 17 76 2.7 Kle1ne 29111 291110.0 32150 .640 12116 .750 7112.4 4411 11 76 2.6 Salinas 1310 8816.8 14132 .438 10117 .588 1411.1 1610 5 38 2.9 Rucker 1410 40/2.9 13/22 .591 418 500 910.6 210 2 30 2.1 Wilcox 1910 10815.7 11128 393 014 .000 310.2 710 7 22 1.2 Spencer 1510 77/5.1 7124 .292 6112 .500 1811.2 1110 1 20 1.3 M11chell 1310 8516.5 7113 .538 315 .600 310.2 410 5 17 1.3 Hawkms 610 811.0 011 .000 212 1.000 210.3 110 1 2 0.3 Kelly 1010 1011 0 010 .000 011 .000 110.1 210 0 0 0.0  Notre Dame Women No. Player Pos. Ht. Wt. Yr. Hometown 10 Janice Monagle G 5-5 135 Fr. Brooklawn, N.J.­11 Susan Neville G 5-9 140 Fr. Decatur, Ala. 13 Missy Conboy G-F 5-8 138 Sr. Columbia, Mo. 20 Mary Beth Schueth F 6-0 142 Fr. Indianapolis, Ind. 21 Debbi Hensley F 5-6 130 Jr. Oklahoma City, Okla. 22 Shari Matvey F-C 6-1 155 Jr. Youngstown, Ohio 23 Laura Dougherty G 5-10 144 Fr. Hillsdale, N.J. 24 Theresa Mullins G 5-6 140 So. Wilmington, Del. 25 Ruth Kaiser F 5-10 145 Fr. Tempe, Ariz. 32 Jenny Klauke G 5-10 140 So. Glenview, Ill. 34 Jan Crowe F 6-0 140 Jr. Deerfield Beach, Fla.  
Team 7212.5 Notre Dame 29 S8251200.9 82411492 .552 4391630 697 895130.9 48916 437 2087 72.0 Opponents 29 ~;8251200. 9 75211534 490 3061434 705 749125.8 570124 320 1810 62 4 Notre Dame Women Final 1980-81 Statistics Player GIGS MlniAvg FGIFGA Pet FTIFTA Pet RebiAvg PFIFO A BS St Pts Avg Malvey 28124 690124.6 1841379 .485 46168 .676 21317 6 5011 13 23 13 414 14.8 Klauke 2613 468118.0 1031226 .456 58181 .716 13015.0 7013 28 2 22 264 10.2 Ryan 2812 552119.7 841233 .361 48/77 .623 5612.0 5111 49 2 39 214 7.6 McManus 26122 6671238 761211 360 38/76 .500 16916.0 9714 25 27 30 190 6.8 Crowe 10/7 273127.3 471106 ..443 40163 .482 102110.2 1910 7 6 22 134 13.4 Mullins 2811 449116.0 521166 .313 6112 .500 3711.3 4210 15 0 17 110 3.9 L1ebscher 28125 472116.9 34198 .347 14121 .667 7812.8 37/0 0 3 3 82 2.9 Conboy 28117 44115.9 331115 287 14126 .538 7312.6 4711 23 0 32 80 2.9 OMally 24110 426117.7 23169 .258 14126 .538 6913.7 3410 29 2 26 60 2.5 Sm11h 2110 259112.3 17/78 .218 20129 .690 61/2 9 28/0 1 3 9 54 2.6 Lally 26127 544119.4 22171 .310 9117 .529 2510.9 5510 52 1 38 53 1.9 Hensley 2312 295112.8 8130 .267 5111 .455 3311.4 3411 7 2 16 21 0.9 Forbes 9/0 5616.2 119 .111 212 1.000 1411.6 410 6 0 2 4 0.4 Curliss 1/0 5/5.0 011 .000 010 .000 010.0 010 0 0 0 0 0.0 Team 171/6.1 Notre Dame 28 5600/200 68411812 .377 314/529 .594 1251144.7 s68111 ·288 68 299 1680 60.0 Opponents 28 56001200 76511741 1439 369/577 .640 1112139.7 534117 360 84 336 1899 67.8 -SaintMary's stats unat•ailable  42 Carrie Bates F-C 6-1 175 Fr. Kansas City, Mo.  
Saint Mary's , No. Player Pos. Ht. Yr. Hometown10 Anne Armstrong G 5-5 Jr. Sylvania, Ohio 23 Chip Ayotte F 5-8 Fr. Columbus, Ohio 15 Mary Bayless G 5-7 Jr. Evanston, Ill.14 Teresa McGinnis G 5-6 Fr. Lexington, Ky. 24 Gretchen Meyer F 5-9 So. St. Louis, Mo.11 Kathy Murphy fiG 5-4 Fr. Niles, Ill.31 Trisha Nolan F 5-8 Fr. Richland, Wash. 12 Lisa Schirz F 5-11 So. Rudolph, Wis. 20 Cyndy Short G 5-6 So. Calgary, Alberta 32 Mary Pat Sitlington I F 5-11 Jr. Frankfort, Ill. 40 Elaine Suess G 5-6 Fr. Grand Blanc, Mich. 25 Melissa Van Ort F 6-0 Fr. Auburn, Ind.  

Tuesday, December 1, 1981 -page 13
Sports Brie/§ 
Central Division

By The Obserwr and The Associated Press 
CENTRAL COLLEGIATE 
Atlanta 8 5 .615 

NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE Milwaukee 9 6 .600
HOCKEY ASSOCIATION 
NATIONAL CONFERENCE Detroit 8 7 .533 I
W L T GF GA Pet
Big boat sailors with racing experience on medium w 
lndtana 8 8 .500 1.5 
Ea.t

Mtchtgan St 7213925 .750 
Chtcago 6 10 .375 3.5 

W L T Pet. PF PA Cleveland 4 11 .267 5
large size boats are needed by the Notre Dame Sailing Club. Call Phil 
N Mtchtgan 6 2 0 38 24 .750 
.708 Dallas 10 3 0 .769 299 241
Ferns St. 8315436
Reynolds at 233-.:H II for more details-The Obseroer 
Phtladelphta 9 4 0 692 307 185 Western Conference
Mtchtgan 4 2 2 21 19 .625 
N.Y. Gtants 6 7 0 462 252 230 Mldwe81 Dlvlalon
Bowl. Green 4 3 1 43 35 .563 
.500 St. LOUIS 6 7 0 .462 275 347 W L Pet. GB
M1am1 3 3 0 3 3 
Washtngton 5 8 0 .385 264 315Mtch. Tech 3 4 31 35 .438 

San Antonto 10 5 .667 Notre Dame 4 7 46 51 .375 Central
Joe Agostino and Phil Baty claimed individual 
Denver 8 5 .615 1

titles as the Notre Dame wrestling team finished second to Mar-
W Mtchigan 3 6 40 45 .350 Detroit 7 6 0 .538 318 264
Utah 7 7 .500 2.5 

Lake Sup St. 2 7 27 44 .250 Mtnnesota 7 6 0 .538 303 304
Houston 6 11 .353 5

4uette at the Concordia Invitational last Wednesday. Agostino took 
OhtoSt. 6 25 37 .188 Tampa Bay 7 6 0 .538 248 204
Kansas Ctty 4 10 286 5.5

the crown at 142-lbs., winning an exciting match against his brother 
Green Bay 6 7 0 462 255 309Dallas 2 13 .133 8 Chtcago 3 10 0 .231 185 285

Pete in the finals. Baty won his third championship when he claimed 
Paclftc Dlvlalon Los Angeles 12 5 706 Weat
thl· title at 167-lbs. Mike Smith finished second at 177 pounds. 

Portland 10 4 714 .5 x-San FranciSCO 10 3 0 .769 287 224
Shawn Moloney ( 190-lbs. ). Karl Dahlhauser ( 158-lbs. ), James Cal­
Phoemx 8 5 615 2 Atlanta 7 6 0 538 359 280 
Seattle 7 6 538 3 Los Angeles 5 8 0 385 268 295
cagnini ( I 50-lbs. ), Jeff Herrman ( 142-lbs.) and Joe Andreetti( 118­
3.

Golden State 8 7 .533 New Orleans 4 9 0 308 180 292
lbs.) rounded up the individual placers as they all finished fourth. 
San Otego 4 10 .286 6.5

Saturday's Results
This Thursday, the wrestlers travel to Valparaiso for their only dual 
X·Chnched diVISion IItie 

Notre Dame 82, St. Joseph's 52 
Sunday'a Reaulta

match of the season. -The Obsen,er 
St. Joseph's (52) 
Kansas Ctly 104. Golden State 100 AMERICAN CONFERENCEM FG·A FT·A R F P Los Angeles I 22. Houston 104 EaatPlamondon 31 6-11 0-0 2 1 12 Milwaukee 1 05. San Antonto 89 W L T Pet. PF PA Wood 26 2-8 4-4 5 4 8 Portland 114. Chtcago 1 09 

M1am1 8 4 .654 288 248 Jotnes 22 0-5 0-0 5 3 0 
Yesterday's Gemea N Y Jets B 4 t 654 290 244No games scheduled

Wtnters 29 2-5 1-1 2 0 5 Buffalo 8 5 0 .615 258 223
Today'a Gamea 

Colltns 24 4-14 1-2 6 3 9 New England 2 11 0 154 277 304
Men's Novice Crewwill hold a meeting on Thursday 
Detrott at New York 

Krone 4 0-2 0-0 2 1 0 Baltimore 12 0 77 209 437
Dec. ~at 7 p.m. in the LaFortune little theatre. Anyone interestt:d in Phtladelphta at Atlanta 
Central

Htckey 2 0-0 0-0 0 0 0 Boston at lndtana
rowing must attend. For more information call Mike llawboldt at Cinctnnatt 10 3 0 769 371 245
Sackett 2 0-0 0-0 0 0 0 San Antonto at Washtngton 
Ptttsburgh 8 5 0 615 299 229

1-1'144. -The Obsert,er Marttn 8 2-6 0-1 2 2 4 Mtlwaukee at Cleveland 
Cleveland 5 8 0 .385 229 302 Kenstnger 3 1-3 0-0 0 0 2 
Kansas Ctty at Houston Houston 5 8 0 385 237 294Portland at Denver

McDonald 5 O·t 0-0 0 0 0 Weal
San Otego at Phoentx 

Bureau 16 1-4 0-0 1 0 2 Denver 8 5 0 .615 258 228
Utah at Los Angeles 

The SMC ski team will hold a mandatory meeting this 
Thteme 9 2-6 0-2 2 1 4 Kansas Ctty 8 5 0 615 313 251
Chtcago at Seattle 

Thursllay at 6:30p.m. for all women interested in racing this season. Duncan 1 0 2-6 0-0 2 1 4 San Otego 8 5 0 615 404 329 Oakland 6 7 0 462 227 270
The meeting will be held in the LaMans lobby. -The Obsen,er. Beatty 9 1-1 0-0 1 0 2 200 23-72 6-10 30 16 52 
~)•f~Q~Q~T~B~A~L~L-== 

Seattle 4 9 0 .308 240 321 FG Pet. -.319. FT Pet. -600. Team 
Thursday'a Reaulta 
~ 

rebounds -6. Turnovers-19. Asststs -7 Detrott 27, Kansas Ctty 10 Friday's Game
Goaltenders -Ferns State. Hughston. Notre (Winters and Collms 2 each). Technicals-2 Dallas 10, Chtcago 9 
Notre Dame 6 0 3 6 15

Dam. Launon. A-1,835 Collms. 
Mtamt 14 16 0 7 37 Sunday's Reaulta
HOCKEY 

Notre Dame (82) 
Scoring 

N.Y Jets 25. Balltmore 0 S8turday'a Game M FG·A FT·A R F P UM-Rodnque 4 run (Mtller ktck) Ctnctnnatt 41, Cleveland 21 
Ferrla St8te 6, Notre Dame 2 Spencer 24 2-5 2-2 11 4 6 ND-Bell98 ktckoff return (ktck blocked) 
Green Bay 35, Mtnnesota 23 Friday's Game Ferns State 0 2 4 -6 Sluby 32 7-13 3-6 2 4 1 7 UM-Rodnque 18 pass from Kelly (Mtllr kick) 
Ptttsburgh 24, Los Angeles 0 Rucker St. Louts 27, New England 20 
Farrla St8te 3, Notre Dame 0 Notre Dame 2 0 0 -2 37 9·t4 4-6 15 2 22 UM-FG Mtller 49 Fems State I 2 0 -3 UM -FG Mtller 53 
Mttchell 27 3-6 0-0 1 6 Buffalo 2 I. Washtngton I 4 Notre Dame 0 0 0 -0 Paxson 33 10-14 2-2 1 0 22 Tampa Bay 31, New Orleans 14 
FIRST PERIOD -Scoring -4. ND. Btork. 9. UM-Belk 63 pass lrom Kelly (Collard, Logan), 1:32. 5, ND, Bowie, 4, (Logan, UM-FG M1ller 24
FIRST PERIOD-Scoring-t, FS. Ftle, (Po~rier. Grassey 2 0-0 0-0 0 0 0 Atlanta 31, Houston 27 
Scmtdt), 18:05. Penalties -BonadJO, ND, (minor­ND -FG Oliver 36 
Wtnter). 10:25 Penalties -Bowte. ND, (minor­San Otego 34, Denver 17 
slashing) 5:22. Lucta, ND, (mtnor-~nterference) 10:15. Duff 19 1-3 0-0 2 1 2 ND-Duerson 88 tntercepllon return (pass fatted) 
roughmg) :32. Baker, FS, (mmor-roughmg) :32. San FranCISCO 17, N.Y. G1ants 10 
Buchly, FS, (mtnor-roughtng) 17:53. Strong, FS, Rowan 21 2-8 1-1 4 1 5 UM-Gnffm 14 run (Miller kick) 
Schml<:lt, ND. (mtnor-roughtng) 6:31. Smith, FS, Oakland 32, Seattle 31 
(minor-roughtng) 17:53. Perry, ND, (minor-roughing) Kelly 2 0-1 0-0 0 0 0 NO UM
(mtnor-roughtng) 6:31 Perry. ND. (mtnor-roughtng) 
17:53. First downs 10 23
7 I 1 Baker, FS, (minor-roughmg) 7:11 Perry, ND, Love 3 1-2 0-0 0 0 2 Yaatardey'a Raault 
Rushtng attempts 22 52

(mtnor-roughtng) 7:11 Baker. FS, (mtnor-roughtng) . SECOND PERIOD-Scoring-6. FS, Hildestad, 200 35-66 12-17 36 13 82 Mtamt 13, Phtladelphta 1 0 
Net Yards Rushtng 53 183Btork, ND, (mmor-htgh sttcktng) 9:43 Htggtns. ND. 2, (Cook, Wtnter), 1:09. 7, FS, Blair, 4, (Pel yak, FG Pet. -.530. FT Pet. -.706. Team Net Yards Passtng 147 279

(mtnor-roughtng) 10.59 Bndeau. FS. (mtnor· Smith), 9:49. Penalties -Buchly, FS, (mtnor· Thuraday'a Game
rebounds-7. Turnovers-18. Asststs-19 
Passes camp-attempted 13-37 17-29

roughtng) 10:50 hooking) 1 :28. P01ner. FS, (mmor·hooking) 7:05. Cleveland at Houston. n
(Paxson 5. Sluby and Mttchell 4 each). Had Intercepted 3 1SECOND PERIOD-Scoring-2. FS. Ross, 3, 
Techntcals-None. Total Net Yards 200 462 Sunday'a Gemea(Wendt). 8 25 3. FS. Strong. 7, (Baker, Ftle), 11:38. THIRD PERIOD -Scoring -8, FS, Ross, 4. Panaltlaa -Rothstem, ND. (mtnor-slashing) 5:43 (Winter, Cook), 9:24. 9, FS, P01ner. 2, (Strong), 
Halftime -Notre Dame 41-20. Officials Fumbles-lost 1·0 3-1 Detrott at Green Bay Penalttes· yards 5·90 7·46 Los Angeles at N.Y. Gtants Htggtns, ND, (mtnor-roughtng) 9:42. Buchly, FS. 11:38. 10, FS, Pel yak, 4, (Smith, Blair), 14:52. I 1, FS, -Phil Robtnson. Bob Showalter, Gil Haggert Punts-average 8·45.5 7-41.3 Mtnnesota at Chtcago(mtnor·roughtng) 9 42 Chapman. ND, (mtnor­Baker, 8, (Bndeau, Strong). 18:56. Penalties-Mac· (all Big Ten). A-1 t ,345 (c). 
Individual Leaders New England at M1am1tnpptng) 11.10. Buchly, FS. (mtnor-tnpptng) 19:58. Netl. FS, (mlnor-facemask) 3:19. Brown. ND. (minor· 
RUSHING-Notre Dame. Phtl Carter 12-33; John New Orleans at St. Louis 
THIRD PERIOD-No sconng. Penalties-Blair, roughtng)4:14 Collard, ND. (mtnor-chargtng) 10:10. Mosley 1-6; John Sweeney 1-13; Bla1r Ktel 3·10. Phtladetphta at Washtngton
FS. (mtnor-checkm"'owhtst) 4:42. Brown, ND. (mtnor­Bowie, ND, (minor-hooking) 11 :49. Ricci, ND, (minor· 
NBA 
Mtam1. Ketth Gnfftn 2·65; Chns Hobbs t 0-60: Lorenzo San Franctsco at Cinctnnatt roughtng) 7.03 Ftle, FS. (mtnor-roughtng) 7:03. tnpptng) 17:07. Buchly, FS, (mtnor-tnpptng) 18:33. 
Eastern Conference 
Roan 8-31 Dallas at Balttmore Buchly, FS. (mtnor-roughtng) 10:52. Htldestad. FS. 
Atlantic Dlvlalon 
PASSING-Notre Dame Ktel 10-25-2, 90; Ttm Atlanta at Tampa Bay(mtnor-htgh sttcktng) 10:59. Poulin. ND. (mtnor-htgh Shota on goal: 
W L Pet. GB 
Koegel 3-11·1, 57. M1am1. Jtm Kelly 17-25-0. 264; Buffalo at San Otego 
-

sttckmg) 1 0.59. Ftle , FS. (minor-tnterference) 14:27. Ferris State 15 14 15 44 
Phtladelphta 13 1 929 
Mtke Rtcht 1-4·1, I 5. Kansas Ctly at Denver Logan. ND, (mtnor-cross checktng) 19:42. Notre Dame 11 7 11 -29 
Boston 13' 2 .867 .5 
RECEIVING -Notre Dame: Joe Howard 5-77: N Y Jets at Seattle Shota on goal: Mosley 3-40: Tony Hunter 1-13. Mtamt: Rocky Balk
New York 6 8 429 7 Goaltenders -Ferns State, Hughston. Notre 4 10 .286 9 Next Monday's Game 
Fems State 11 18 5 -34 Washtngton 2-87, Larry Brodsky 4·79; Mark Rush 4-42. 
Dame, Launon. A-t.792 3 .2QO 10.5 Ptllsburgh at Oakland, n
New Jersey 12
Notre Dam 15 9 9 -33 Attendance-50,681 

The Observer wtll accept classtfteds Mon­day through Fnday. 10 a.m to 4 30 p m However. classtfteds to appear tn the next tssue must be recetved by 3 p.m. the bustness day pnor to tnsertton All classtfteds must be prepatd. etther tn person or through the mat I
Classifieds 
Need nders to OMAHA for Chnstmas TYPING DONE ON CAMPUS BY FOR SALE 2 GAS UCLA 11X1ower arena I need TWO FOREIGNER TIX. Wtll pay Call Came at 4654 PROFESSIONAL SECRETARY. LOW best offer call4375 good $$ Call Joe at 1200 
RATES, QUICK SERVICE. CALL X-Need nders from Atlanta to ND on Jan 10 1315. HEY MAINTENANCE: When the hell are• Dan the Odd Rod (he tsn't playtng wtth a or 11 Call Came at 4654 you gonna ftx the w1ndow 1n 310 Alumnt? full deck) needs a date to the Dillon 
NIGHTSOUNDS 105 FM 10:30 P.M Get on the ball, wtll ya? Dance. Someone help lhts hurttng buck LOST. A 58-C Texas Instrument Cal­Call1725. 
.._ 
THE ZAHM COFFEEHOUSE IS OPEN culator about a week ago maybe tn the BEWARE--Count Sven lives alter dark!! To CHRIS FATFIELD: Whaddya th1nk of EVERY THURSDAY FOR YOUR EXIS. Cell Btology Class If found. please call the dectston to make football a club sport? STUDENT REP NEEDED to promote our
FOR SALE

TENTIAL PLEASURE. OFFERING THE 6737 or return to 143 Farley Hall. To my favonte Vaman tnpper, Weekends N.D Football as we know 11 no longer ex· annual spnng break tnps to Ftonda FREE FINEST IN LIVE ENTERTAINMENT, 
are too short--espectally wtth a tsts!!! Oh my suckage!!l TRIP TO FLORIDA plus commtsston Call COFFEE, TEA, HOMEMADE DONUTS, LOST LADIES' BROWN DEARSKIN chaperone Try agatn somettme? The or wnte. Coastal Tours, 5461 N. East FREE POPCORN AND PAT GALLAG· GLOVES WITH RABBIT FUR LINING-­Have 3 basketball ltcket packages lor Ltttle Redheaded Girl HAPPY ANNIVERSARY TO LEE AND Rtver Road, Chtcago, IL 60656 (312) 693­HER. COME DOWN AND SEE IF OUR OLD AND MENDED--NO QUESTIONS sale. Lower arena. Best offer. Sell in· BARBARA KOPP! Much love from your 4759 PROFESSIONAL CONVER­WILL BE ASKED--288-9322 dtvtdually or together. Call Mike or Ted at ATTENTION-ATTENTION f811hlul domer and eldest daughter SATIONALISTS ARE PAID ENOUGH. 1181 The Notre Dame chapter of the The personal battle has begun May 11 i-12 EVERY THURSDAY NIGHT, I LOST MY RADIO SHACK EC-4004 HE-MAN WOMAN HATERS CLUB SHIRLEY: SO SORRY TO SEE YOU GO conttnue unconsttpated and unedttedlll ZAHM BASEMENT. CALCULATOR IF YOU FOUND IT, STEREOS JUST IN TIME FOR X-MASI is bemg brought to life. You, too, can BYE-BYE Two weeks of tmply~ng, tnventtng and 
PLEASE CALL289-21 19. FANTASTIC DEALS ON ALL MAJOR express your dtssattsfactton wtth. as our revealing obnmctous. vulgar . .ncnmtnatlng ATTENTION ALUMS & CHICAGO BRANDS OF STEREO GEAR! BOSE-H­esteemed Prestdent calls them, the non­ATTENTION FAITHFUL OBSERVER hes that can tarntsh even the worst of 
BOUND STUDENTS LOST. ND CLASS RING. OUTSIDE K. JVC-MANY OTHERS· MANY SPE­mBies on the ND-SMC campuses Stay PERSONAL READERS AND/OR SUB­reputations LONG LIVE SMUTI!IIIove ttl The Notre Dame Club ol Chtcago wtll SENIOR BAR FRIDAY NIGHT NAME CIALS FOR THE STUDENT BUDGET! tuned to this column or further detatiS. a MITTERS!! SHIRLEY IS LEAVINGttf sponsor their annual Chnstmas Mass and INSIDE IF FOUND. PLEASE CALL PHIL CALLJ B AT 8228! prestdenttal address, and upcomtng COME SAY 'BYE-BYE' TO OUR IN­The buck ts shot agam. but the hunter Brunch on Dec 13. 1981 at 11 am Mass PERKINS AT 8338 
lectures sponsored by the HMWHC FAMOUS OFFICE MANAGER. KISSES leels no patn and the crowds wtll be held at St. Mtchael's Pansh 1n Old ARE NOW BEING ACCEPTED UNTIL cheer . then forget. Who even cares? Town Brunch wtlllollow at 12.30 at the Lost. Set of SIX keys on Gemmt key chatn hi lynn -dtd you have a good monday? DECEMBER B. Ambassador West Hotel Please contact somewhere between ad bldg and matn JUSt wondenng... well keep out of trouble When you touch me I feel like If you 
TICKETS

JoAnn at the N D Club offtce at 312·263· Circle Sat. nile If found, reply tn lhts 11m WELCOME DIANE TO THE OBSERVER can complete thts sentence you are ob­6063 for reservattons column. Reward (wow what an exc111ng personal) STAFF/I HOPE YOU STAY SANE AS vtously PRIDELESS. 
LONG AS POSSIBLE!!/ USED BOOK SHOP HOURS WED, Need UCLA GA s Call John 1809 Bethy. Ralonda, Trace. Nance. Kathy. 2 MMMMOOOOOOOOOOit/1 CRYSTAL ROCKS at CHAUTAUQUA SAT. SUN 9·7 CASPERSON. 1303 Carole s. Lynn. and Jen. THANX TONS THE OBSERVER STAFF Sat. nile 12/5 PARTY!I 
BUCHANAN AD . NILES NEED HOME BASKETBALL TIX CALL for all your love and support! I love y·all
FOR RENT ] 
DENNIS8712 TONSI Here's to a TONS FUN weekend ALL SAINT MARY'S OBSERVER EXPERIENCED TYPIST WILL DO of SYR's and formals! TONS of love-USA Alas. what hope of speedtng REPORTERS. PHOTOGRAPHERS, TYPING CALL 287·5162 UCLA TIX FOR SALE 3793 (T.S.) DAY EDITORS YEARBOOK PICTURE 
FOR NEXT SEMESTER HOUSE AND Deo Grauas? Deo Grallas! AT 6 PM WEDNESDAY AT SMC ATTENTION ALL FUTURE ROMANS APARTMENTS 234·2626 wanted 2,4, or 6 ga llcl\.els for UCLA game BEWAAEII!The grubby-faced raptsl IS OFFICE--BE THERE Ill There wtll be a mandatory meettng on wtll pay mega bucks call Tad 1807 INSIDE today anachronism n. a lhtng or person that IS Tuesday. December 1, at 7:00 tn room SNOW CONTROL out of place wtth respect to ttme. Ex A Men are terks 232, Moreau Hall. St Marys STUDENT BBALL TICKET BOTH moose tn the pleistocene IS an 
PAKAGES CALL TIM 232·4257 BEAKER IS A SLUT. anachrontsm Oh. Chtcago. you make me feel sooooo Walch lor The Soctety for Creattve WANTED good Anacrontsm nghl after Chnstmas break! I NEED A RIDE TO AND FROM PH ILLY --Mtck Jagger 
YES. I'm from Jersey and I r.""~d 1 or 2 

AT CHRISTMAS. CAN LEAVE ON THE HELP!! I NEED A AIDE TO TONtTE'S Rosemont ·81
UCLA ttckets. Call Deanna at 4308 for 19TH OR AFTER WILL SHARE USUAL (DEC 1) STONES CONCERT IN
$$$! 

WINDSURF NOW AVAILABLE AT THE 'coSMO GET A LIFE!II! CALL MARYEVA AT 2915. DETROIT. IF YOU'VE GOT ROOM IN hello demse lauren anna va. shan shan­
RARE BOOKS ROOM IN THE LIBRARY YOUR CAR. PLEASE CALL 3238 IM· non kelly NOW ANYONE CAN DQ IT IN STYLEt FLORIDA nders needed for X-Mass Colleen and Dabble: MEDIATELY lhts IS your personal hello from brtg·tl. WIND cashwtse· the usual, call-7735 anyttme Things look brighter when you realize 
leave message ok? how tough a short caterpillar has it... CLASS OF 83 JUNIOR SKI TRIP I Q What IS the favonte mustcal group 1n
PERSONALS

SAINT MARYS OBSERVER PHOTOG· WEEKEND OF FEB 12, 13, and 14 the Yukon? 
RAPHERS, REPORTERS. DAY Dnvtng to Detrott lhts weekend? I need a BOYNE MOUNTAIN AND HIGHLANDS A Gladys Kntght and the Peeps, natural· EDITORS. YEARBOOK PIX WEDNES­nde to the Detroit a1rport on Fnday and a $15 DEPOSIT DUE TUESDAY, DEC 1 lyl DAY NIGHT AT 6 AT SMC OFFICE--BE return on Sunday II you can help call Expenenced typtst .. reasonable Mrs LA FORTUNE 6:30-8:00 AND WED , The Restless Shade ol Moose Control 
THERE Ill -1188 Bedford 288-2107 Hours BAM to 5PM DEC 2 FIRST COME FIRST SERVE P S. Ht, Shirley and Diane. 
'''""·"-'t{!" 
• 


The Observer -Sports 

IrishjuniorcenterRexBellomyforgets the puck weekend hockey at the ACC. (Photo by john as he shoots on Ferris State goalie Rob Hughson in Macor) 
continuedfrom page 16 

throughout the season, the safety­valve move of dumping the ball off to a running back was successful for Irish oppponents. 
But that's just the defense. Ifany­
thing, the offense was worse. 

"We had to simplify our offense," Faust admits now. "It was just too complex for the_ players to grasp." But there's a fine line between simplicity and predictability, and Irish coaches have crossed it. Someone has to devise more than two patterns -fly down the 
sideline or cross over the middle·­forJoe Howard. 
It's time for Faust and his assis­tants to scrap the wingback position altogether. First Tony Hunter was wasted there, then Greg Bell. Notre Dame got no production out of that position all year. The wingback­around was a disaster, no matter who ran it, and the wingbacks looked like they had hands of stone 
when they had to catch a pass. Hun-
IU warmup 
·Fighting Irish defeat Pumas in 'no frills' game 
By CHRIS NEEDLES 
Sports Writer 
It was "no frills" basketball at its best. 
No cheerleaders, half a student section, and a few people disguised as a pep band -all were, or weren't, 
on hand Saturday at the ACC, as the Irish opened its 1981-82 version of the Reconstruction Period by beating St. joseph's (Ind.), 82-52. 
Even though all the fanfare was missing from a typical home opener, that didn't take away from the sig­nificance ofthe victory. Granted, the Pumas are not UCLA -maybe 
-they're not even up to Valpo's caliber -and the fir!>t true test for the young Irish squad will come tonight in Bloomington against In­diana. 
But Saturday's victory, and it was impressive, gave a few of this season's question marks a chance to .strut their stuff, and many of them 
took full advantage of the oppor­
tunity. 
"You can see that this is a young, inexperienced basketball team," said Coach Digger Phelps. "The more game situations we can create, even against a team like St. joseph's, the better off we will be in the long 
run." 

With juniors Bill Varner and Tim Andree in street clothes nursing foot injuries, Phelps was forced to start an all-sophomore front line of 6-4 Tom Sluby, 6-8 Cecil Rucker and 6-7 Barry Spencer. All responded surprisingly well to their first start-



HEALTH CARE OPPORTUNITIES 
CAREERS IN HEALTH CARE BEGIN IN THE AIR FORCE 
Positions an• now available for upcoming graduates in: PHARMACY (BACCALAUREATE DEGREE) SOCIAL WORK (MASTERS DEGREE) BUSINESS AND PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION (MASTERS DEGREE) ENGINEERING (BACCALAUREATE DEGREE) 
Internships are available for: 

DIETICIANS (BACCALAUREATE DEGREE) CLINICAL PSYCHOLOGIST (PhD) MEDICAL TECHNOLOGIST (MASTERS DEGREE) 
FULL SCHOLARSHIPS FOR MEDICAL SCHOOL ARE STILL AVAILABLE. 
Benefits include: excellent salary, complete health care and knowledge of final assignment prior to commitment. For further information contact: 
Lt. Ted Pantaleo or MSgt. Bob Reese at 317-269-6164 ... CALL COLLECT 
or write 4 7 Pennsylvania St., Indianapolis, IN. 46204. 

Tuesday, December 1, 1981 -page 14 
ing assignments, most especially the lanky Rucker. 
"I was really pleased with Cecil," commented Phelps. "When he hits the boards like that, he's a real asset to the team, in addition to his scoring touch." 
Rucker, who has been the target 
of most of Phelps' wrath in pre­
season drills, responded with a 
game-high 22 points, mostly from 
underneath, and snared I 5 
rebounds, six more than he grabbed 
all last season. 
This is the new and improved Cecil Rucker. No more 30-foot rain­bows. There wasn't even any time for the fans to chant "Ce-cil!" Rucker played 37 minutes on Saturday, just three short of his season total as a 
freshman. 

"I know my starting role is only temporary," said Rucker. "But I just have to keep up my self-confidence. I've been working real hard, and while I'm in there, I'll just have to be a dominant force." 
"Cecil got a little tired out there in the second half," Phelps said. "He just has to build up his endurance. But that will come with time." 
After a close first five minutes, the 
Irish hit three-straight buckets to 
pull away from the Pumas en route 
to a 4I-20 halftime advantage, al­
though they shot just 48 percent 
from the floor for the first half. 
In the second half, Notre Dame extended its lead to as much as 32 points, as Phelps was able to get all ten healthy players into the contest. 
"I think you can see what a bad injury situation we are in," said Phelps, "when I have to sub a walk-on (Karl Love) late in the first half. We're just injury-prone for some reason. 
"Rucker and Spencer picked up slight sprains today. We would love to put a big lineup on the court (with John Paxson and Varner as guards), but until we get over these injuries we just can't do that." 
As for the Pumas ( 1-1 ), they were 
led by Gary Plamondon's 12 points, 
as he was the only player to hit 
double figures. St. joe's was hurt by a 
dismal 32 percent shooting perfor­
mance from the floor, 

john Paxson continued his steady 
play by hitting I 0 of 14 from the 
field for 22 points, and he added five 
assists. Sluby chipped in I 7 points, 
and fellow forward Spencer grabbed 
II boards. 

It may have been "no frills," but with Indiana and UCLA coming up this week, it was a welcome breather for Phelps and his Irish. 
Tar Heels defeat Trojans 

CHARLOTTE, N.C. (AP) -james Worthy and Sam Perkins scored 18 points apiece last night to lead No. I North Carolina to a 73-62 college basketball victory over Southern California. 

CHRISTMAS GIFTS FROM 
SAINT FRANCIS SHOPPE S THIRD WORLD HANDCRAFTS 
WHAT IS THE ST. FRANCIS SHOPPE? It's a non-profit shop set up to serve the Third World who can produce high-quality handcrafts and sell them for their livelihood. By supporting the ST. FRANCES SHOPPE with your purchases, you can buy great gifts for loved oneswhile helping those most in needy in a world growing hungrier each day. 
TONIGHT! 
WEDNESDAY & 
THURSDAY 4 to 9 pm in the LIBRARY LOBBY 

Buy a gift that will touch somebody continents away! 
Whimper 
ter, though brilliant at times, dropped countless passes, many of which hit him right in the hands. That's inexcusable, especially from the man reputed to have "the best hands in the country." 
Irish quarterbacks looked bad all year. A great deal of that was due to the fact that the team runs many timed pass routes. The quarterbacks are supposed to throw to a spot, and its the job of the receivers to get there. When they don't, one of two things happens. Neither of them is 
good. 

Another main reason for the mediocre performance of the quar­terbacks must be pinned on the coaches. Dan Devine could never figure out, and Faust never learned that you need one -count 'em, one 
-quarterback to win. Alternating Kiel and Mike Courey didn't work for Devine. Alternating Courey and Tim Koegel didn't work for Devine. Alternating Kiel and Koegel was a disaster for Faust. Yet, when it came down to the last game ofthe season, Faust insisted on bringing in relief at the first sign that Kiel was faltering. The platooning of Kiel and Koegel was not only unwise, it was unfair to both players. 
"Using hindsight, which is always 20/20, we probably made some mistakes," says Offensive Co­ordinator Tom Lichtenberg. "Things such as alternating quarterbacks and expecting players to master the dif­ficult offensive system in just one year." 
But those weren't the only mistakes. 
This team needed leadership from their coach. What they got was a pal. Now, there's nothing wrong with a coach befriending his players, but things got out ofhand here. 
"Coach spent a lot of time last 
spring trying to convince us of his 
ability," said Irish captain Bob 
Crable after the fiasco Friday. "He 
spent more time on that than on 
coaching." 

Faust was too much a friend and not enough a coach. Players do not vote on what play to run on fourth­and-short. A coach decides. Players do not tell their coach they enjoy one position better than another and should be alllowed to stay there. A 
coach decides. That should be that. But it wasn't. 
Faust may still prove to be among the Notre Dame success stories. He deserves another year to prove that. Let's not judge him on a single season, albeit horrendous. But by the same toKen, let's not gloss over the serious problems that exists. Something went terribly wrong this year, and someone must be held ac­countable. 
It boggles the mind to think that this team, with few changes in per­sonnel, could have won the national championship last season. These players have already proven they can win with consistency, so the blame for Notre Dame's first losing 
season in 18 years can fall only one place -on the sidelines. 
Righetti 
• 
wzns ·!AL honor 

I NEW YORK (AP) -Hard­
,throwing Dave Righetti of the New York Yankees was named American League Rookie of the Year by the Baseball Writers Association of America yesterday, beating out Bos­ton teammates Rick Gedman and Bob Ojeda for the award. 
Gedman, who batted .288 in 62 games replacing Carlton Fisk as the Red Sox's catcher, received the ther five first-place votes :md totaled 64 points. Ojeda, who was 6-2 after being called up following the players' strike, finished third with 27 points. 
-----~·-­

-~-:==.-------=-------=-------·-----­
The Observer 


T0 da~·-================T=u::;e=s=d=a=y,=D=ec=e=m=b=e=r=1=,=19=8=1==p=a=g=e=1=.5 

Doonesbury 
,-~Nf) UJ(TH YOUR O:JN­~ STIWTBICI'£RJNG ANO 8ACK8fTING. YOU'R£ IJNP~­M!N!NG CVWTH!N6 ale'!<'& 
TRYING TV 00 IN THIS 
NH(!EHaJSC I 

Simon 

I OONT WE If !TIS ONLY A MATTER OF 57'1/.13, I CANT 00 TH& JOB UJITHOIJT TCAMUJORK I /.JJHeN 'tOU LeT ME W/.JJN, 'tOIJ 
La muN !He AMEI<ICAN 
P&OP/.13I IJN[}ERSTANP< GOOO I 
' 


The Daily Crossword 
©1981 by Chicago Tribune-N.Y. News Synd. Inc. 1212/81 All RiQhts Reserved 
Michael Molinelli 

Garry Trudeau 
.rn -­
II·~~ 
NOW, NANCY

' \ -:HOSE 
!XWTUJORRY,

\ !JARN 
EVERYTHING

!.VTCR/01<. 
LrxJIS GREAT

f)E{X}FAT[)?.51 

]eb Cashin 

ACROSS  25 Jewelers'  47 Meadow  22 Ratgenus  
1 Travel in  concern%  48 Oneof  25 Transfers  
water 5 Transparent material  29 Lecturer's platform 31 Student's  fifty·two 56 One on the move  26 Aromatic herb 27 Entree  
10 Charity  workroom  57 Pastoral  28 The top  
14 Sherry or  34 Mr. Arden  nymph  29 City in  
Chablis 15 Tragic  35 Japanese native  58 Elf·like creature  France 30 Blackbirds  
young lover 16 Bacchana·  36 Hustle and bustle  59 Japanese shipping  31 Loiters 32 Muddle  
lian cry  37 Big eater,  word  33 "Gaslight"  
17 "-Death"  big spender  60 Coeurd'­ actor  
18 "I want­ 40 Existence:  61 Desert·like  35 Egyptian  
just like..."  Lat.  62 Uppity one  lizard  
19 Corn or oat  41 Commotions  63 Notnow  36 Speaker of  
product  42 Firearm  64 Easygait  baseball  
20 Famousgem  43 Collection  38 NBAword  
23 Legal  44-end  DOWN  39 Fresh.water  
matter 24 Stocking  (over) 45 Smaller  1 Do in a fly 2 Hope  fish 44 Perfect  
nuisance  46 -·distant  3 Arrow  45 One ahead  
's Solution  poison 4 Network  46 Scour 47 Climbing  
5 Wine's  plant  
beginning 6 Theatre  48 A Crawford 49 Of planes  
sections  50 FDR'sdog  
7 In the  51 Food  
thick of  regimen  
8 Mexican  52 Gemstone  
Indian  53 Mad Roman  
9 Sun parlor  emperor  
10 Fiend  54 Fall by  
11 Baking  drops  
chamber  55 Contesting  
12 Burden  party  
13 Lamprey  56 Metric  
21 Straight  weights:  
12/2181  prefix  abbr.  

Campus 
•1 
p.m. -Meeting, Ladies of NO, Christmas Tea honoring life members, Stapleton Lounge, Saint Mary's College 

•4:30 
p.m. -Seminar, "The Population Dynamics of False Mermaids", Professor Brent Smith, Earlham College, Galvin Auditorium, Sponsored by Biology Department, All are welcome 

•4:30 
p.m. -Lecture, "The Isotopic Theory of Borel and Tits", B. Weisfeiler, 226 Computer Cen­ter/Math Building, Sponsored by Kenna Lecture Series, All are welcome 

•7:30 
p.m. -Basketball, NO vs. Indiana, Away 

•7:30 
p.m. -Meeting, Ladies of Columbus, Knights of Columbus Building 

•8 
p.m. -Lecture, "Social Policy and Private Wealth", James D. Smith, Institute for Social Research, llniverisity of Michigan, Hayes Healy Auditorium, Sponsored by Provost's Lecture Series, All are welcome 


7:00p.m. 
7:~0p.m. 
8:00p.m. 
8:~0p.m. 
9:00p.m. 
9:30p.m. !O:OOp.m. 
lO:~Op.m. 
ll:OOp.m. 
ll:~Op.m. 
12:00a.m. 

Television Tonight 
16  MASH  
22  CBS News  
28  Joker's Wild  
34  MacNeil/Lehrer Report  
46  It's Your Business  
16  All in the Family  
22  College Basketball: Notre Dame at In­ 
diana  
28  Tic Tac Dough  
~4  Straight Talk  
46  God's News Behind the News  
16  Father Murphy  
28  Happy Days  
~4  Cosmos  
46  Lester Sumrall Teaching  
28  Laverne and Shirley  
46  The Lahayes On Family Ufe  
16  Maverick Premiere  
28  Three's Company  
~4  National GeographicSpecial  
46  Today with Lester Sumrall  
22  Hallmark Hall of Fame  
28  Too Close For Comfort  
28  Hart To Hart  
46  ~wight Thompson  
34  The Duchess Of Duke Street  
16  NewsCenter 16  
28  Newswatch 28  
46  Praise the Lord  
16  Tonight Show  
22  22 Eyewitness News  
28  ABC News Nightline  
~4  Dick Cavett Show  
22  McCloud  
28  Fantasy Island  

46  Lester Sumrall Teaching  
12:30a.m.  16  Tomorrow Coast to Coast  
46  Ught and Uvely  

Today in History 
Today's highlight in history: In 1935, Chiang Kai·Shek was elected president of the Kuomintang, China's ruling party. 
On this date: 

In 1934, Joseph Stalin's collaborator, Serge Kirov, was assassinated, leading to a purge of the Russian Communist Party. 
Five years ago: Jose Lopez Portillo was sworn in as Mexico's 60th president. 
One year ago: It was reported that Syria had doubled its military buildup, to 50,000 troops, along the border with Jordan, as Mideast tensions flared anew. -AP 
... 
... 
.,. 
-
··············································································­
i···················· STUDENT UNION Presents: ••••••••••••••••••·: ~"Do Black Patent Leather Shoes Really Reflect tJp?"~ 
: ••••••••••••••••••••••••• 3rd Hit Year in Chicago 
···························:
•

•••• Transportation & Ticket $22 per person. Limited Tickets Available • •
•

•
• Bus departs 6:15 pm, Friday, Dec. 4th. Returns to ND immediately after show. Arrive 1:15 am. • 
.• .•
\ 

~··············································································~ 
~-----=---_--------­
Tuesday, December 1, 1981 -page 16
Svorts 


Quarterback Tim Koegel, who replaced Blair Kiel in thefirst quarterofFriday'sgame atMiami, fires a pass. Kiel was later reinserted at the helm, 
Weekend defeats 

Ferris St .' crossbar foil icers 
By MICHAEL OLENIK; 
Sports Writer 
A sharp-shooting Ferris State hockey team handled Notre Dame twice this past weekend at the ACC, as the ill-fated Irish continue to search for the missing ingrediant for winning consistently in the CCHA. 
In absorbing ~0 and 6-2 losses at the hands of the Bulldogs, the Lefty Smith & Co. are left with a 4-7-1 league record, good for a seventh place standing just ahead ofWestern Michigan. Ferris State, meanwhile, made a serious advance towards the top of the league, as their 8-3-1 record clearly indica.tes. 
Despite the seemingly decisive scores, the discrepency in the two teams was not as apparent on the ice as it is in the standings. In fact, the Irish probably controllnl play more effectively on the whole, but t:ould 
not convert their opportunities as well the Bulldogs converted theirs. 

-
Although Saturday's performance was inferior to Friday's effort, many of the problems that plagued the Irish the first night were evident the 
second. Probably the most frustrat­ing development of the series was the emergence ofa seventh man for the Bulldogs -the goal post. On five seperate occasswns Irish shots found either the post or crossbar of the Ferris State c 1 age, and each came in what could be called key situa­tions. 
It looked as if the Irish would shake the goal post hex at the outset of Saturday's contest, as Kirt Bjork and Joe Bowie each notched a goal in the first period, while the Bul­ldogs came up empty after testing Dave Larion with 1; shots. Bjork's tally came just 1:32 into the game, and it came on shot from an impos­
sible angle that probably surprised Bulldog netminder Rob Hughston. 
Houghston was even more surprised when Sean Regan stole a puck at center ice in a man-short situation for the Irish and beat the goalie with a hard shot from the right point. The only problem was that the puck hit the left pipe instead of the twines -something the Irish were beginning to learn to live with. 
Nevertheless, tht: Irish finally found themselves with a two-goal lead, but they were able to enjoy it for only a short period of time, as Ferris State ran together six un­answered goals during the next two periods. 

"We sure played a lousy third · period and not a very good second 
period, " complained Smith after the 
game. "Our backchecking was poor 
and our defensemen did not move 
the puck well at all." 
Unfortunately for the Irish, the 
Bulldogs were executing well in 
both aspects, and it showed when 
defenseman Paul Hildestad beat 
Laurion just 69 seconds into the 
period after a long flurry in the 
Notre Dame end. 
Steve Blair tied the score midway 
through the period when he wristed 
a shot over l.aurion's left shoulder 
on a Bulldog break. and the Irish 
were back where they had started. 
It looked, as if Notre Dame was 
going to assert itself snon afterwards 
however, as jeff Logan swept in on a 
breakaway that brought the crowd 
to its feet. Almost r:xpectedly 
though, his shot det1ected otf the 
crossbar, and the 1,792 in atten­
dance shook their heads once again 
in disbelief. 
The 2-2 score stood up until 9:24 
of the final period when Steve Ross 
utilized a three-on-tw9 Bulldog 
break to score the game-winner, and 
it was downhill from there as Ferris 
State added three other scores to its 
evening bounty. 
"It hurts like hell," said Smith in 
reference to the two losses. "We 
played right into their hands, and we 
got caught too many times. We 
didn't win the face-offs when we 
needed them and we took too long 
on our shots, because they blocked a 
lot of them." 
In Friday's game, the Bulldogs dis­
played some tight checking and an 
effective powerplay. Jim File's slap­
shot from the point found its way 
through a gauntlet ofbodies and past 
Laurion at the 10:25 mark of the 
opening period, as the visitors hit on 
one oftheir two powerplay goals for 
the night. 
Ross slid a loose rebound past a 
sprawled Laurion for the second 
Bulldog goal, and Randy Strong 
added icing to the cake just two 
minutes later with a nice wrist shot 
from the right circle at the 11:38 
mark ofthe middle period. 
For the remainder of the game, 
the Ferris State gameplan became 
obvious to any observer. It was to 
play a tight checking and defensive 
style of hockey, and they did it all 
too successfully, as the Irish we.re.· 
shut outfor the first time this season. 
"It was one of those games when you play well yet don't win, " ad­mitted Smith. "I can't fault them for effort. We had all the opportunities, but things just didn't go the right way. Their goalie played well enough without the help of the post." (The Irish hit it three times on 
the night.) 
It was a costly weekend for the Irish in terms of personnel also, as Bill Rothstein and just returnedjohn Cox found themselves in street clothes for the Saturday game. Rothstein suffered a thigh contusion while Cox aggravated his shoulder injury, and loss-ofboth will probably be out for a couple of weeks. 
With the Redskins invading the ACC this weekend, Notre Dame will sec if it!> initial CCHA campaign can prove to be more satisfying. 
Irish learn tough lessons in Miami 
By KELLY SULLIVAN 
Sports Writer 

MIAMI, -The Notre Dame foot­
ball team has learned some tough 
lessons this season. 

"I've learned I don't like to lose," 
said coach Gerry Faust. 

"We learned that you win and lose 
on the football field and the Notre 
Dame tradition can't win it for you," 
offered quarterback Blair Kiel. 

And 50,000 plus spectators, along with millions of television viewers, learned that Miami will no longer be a doormat to the Irish. They beat Notre Dame for only the second time in 14 tries, 3 7-15, in a game 
more lopsided than even that score indicates. 
"This loss doesn't sit well with me," linebacker Joe Rudzinski remarked. "It's bad enough to lose and especially to lose on national television. But to be embarrassed the way we were by Miami on na­tional television is hard to swallow." 
Yet the Irish will have to accept a 
5-6 record, their first losing season 
in 18 years, after allowing the Hur­
ricaine offense to roll up a 516-216 
yard advantage. After letting Miami 
quarterback Jim Kelly to eclipse all 
kinds ofschool passing records with 
his 17-of-25 for 264 yards perfor­
mance (238 in the first half). And af­
ter failing to put points on the board 
themselves, except for a Greg Bell 
kick-off return (98 yards), a Dave 
Duerson interception return (88 
yards) and a Harry Oliver 36·yard 
field goal. 

··we knew the t y were a good 
defensive team and we knew that we 
had to go out and execute and we 
didn't do it," said co-captain Phil 
Carter, who got 33 yards on 12 at­
tempts. 

"Yes, we were humiliated," ad­
mitted Kid, 10-25 for 90 yards. "We 
didn't take Miami too lightly, but 
they took it to us," said the sopho­
more who was yanked after just one 
series, Notre Dame's first, in which 
he threw an interception. Faust in­
serted Tim Koegel. Passes were 
dropped, the offense failed to move, 
Koegel threw an interception, and 
Kiel went back in for the duration. 
"I'm upset at the way the quarter­back situation was handled," he confessed. "I just wish the coaches would've made up their minds and decided to go with one of us, whoever it was. I don't think this was really fair to me or to Tim." 
Split end Joe Howard gave the Irish their only threat offensively. He caught five passes for 77 yards, meriting ABC-TV's Most Valuable Player award for Notre Dame. 
"This game typified our season," continued Kiel. "It was up and down, shaky and disappointing. I really feel bad for our seniors. We wanted to go out and assure them of a winning season." 
That possibility was eliminated 
Friday for the same reasons victory 
has eluded the Irish all through the 
season, according to linebacker Bob 
Crable. The defense missed tackles, 
had an ineffective pass rush and gave 
up the big plays. Miami threw at will 
against the Notre Dame secondary, 
and successfully ran flanker 
reverses, quarterback options and a 
fake punt for a first down. 

"I don't know anyone who would have thought this possible," he said. "We've got almost everybody back from last year. When that happens you're supposed to improve and we digressed." 
"It really gives you a bad feeiing knowing that you are a part of the first losing team in decades. lt hurts." 
"I hurt," echoed Faust. "! don't want to go down in history this way. To be honest, though, I hurt for the kids more than anything. But we'll be back. Notre Dame is bigger than a losing season." 
"It hurts," agreed Kid. "'because this year was supposed to be a good year; we were supposed to go out and win it all." 
''I'm glad it's over." 

Picking up the pieces 
And nothing to look back on withpride, And nothing to look forward to with hope. RobertFrost 
MIAMI -The 1981 football season began with much 
promise. But it ended, as T.S. Eliot said, not with a bang, 
but a whimper. Totally outplayed in every facet of the 
game, the Notre Dame football team was humiliated 
before 50,000 fans in the stadium, and millions in their 
living rooms. 
"Yes, we got embarassed on national television," said 
Kiel afterwards. "We learned that you win and lose on 
the football field and the Notre Dame tradition can't 
win it for you." 
Perhaps these players should have learned that long 
before last weekend. But, now that the season is finally 
-mercifully -over, we can look back and wonder 
where things went wrong between Labor Day and 
Thanksgiving. 
It could have been in Ann Arbor, where Faust was 
taught his first lesson in college coaching by Bo Schem­
bechler. 

Perhaps it was in West Lafayette, where Irish players 
were reminded that the game is never over. While 
Notre Dame was in dreamland, Purdue was driving the 
length ofthe field for the win. 
"We were overconfident early in the season," co­
captain Phil Carter says now. "We thought teams would 
roll over and die for us." 
Things may have fallen apart for good in South Bend, 
when Florida State's Bobby Bowden gave Faust his 
second lesson in college coaching. 
Maybe it was in Colorado Springs, where Notre Dam(;: 
fans learned once and for all that the overconfidence that had cost their team wins over Michigan and Purdue . -had not disappeared. Forget the fact that the Irish came back to win big after Air Force closed to within a touch­down. Air Force never should have been within a touch­

down in the fourth quarter. 
In any event, by the time this team got to the Orange Bowl, things had reached rock bottom. Friday's game typified everything that was wrong with Notre Dame's football team this season. 
"These guys are mad that they had to come off the 
beach to play today," one member of the athletic 
department said on the floor ofthe Orange Bowl Friday 
afternoon. "The game's inrerrupting their vacation." 
That statement is, more than anything, an indictment of the Irish coaches. Faust makes a good deal of money giving pep talks to businessmen and corporate ex­ecutives, and is very good at it. For some reason, however, he was unable to get his players excited about playing football. Friday's game was not a unique in­stance, either. The team ha.-; been lethargic and unin­
spired all season. 
But emotion alone can't carry a team through an entire season. It can win a game here and there. but that's it. There is more to the problem than that. It was painfully obvious to anyone who saw the Miami mas­sacre that Notre Dame was badly outcoached. 
The Irish were absolutely unable to stop the option play, one ofthe most basic weapons in the game. Players looked as if they had no idea where they should be or what they should do. 
Notre Dame neglected to covet players who came 
out of the backfield to catch passes. Time and again, 
See WHIMPER, page 14 








