, , , Auction-page 3 

VOLUME XV* NO. 130 an mdependent student newspaper serving notre dame and saint mary's WEDNESDAY, APRIL 22, 1981 
Talks conducted 
Japan urges curb in exports 
TOKYO (AP) -Government officials are pressuring Japan's automakers for a seven percent voluntary cutback in exports to the United States to stave off protectionist moves in Con­gress, a respected financial newspaper reported yesterday. 
But the auto ch1efs were reported by Kyodo News Ser­vice to be resisting the 1. 7 million-vehicle limit, a •educ­tion of 120,000 cars and light trucks from 1980 exports tota­ling 1.82 million. Kyodo said they favored an agreement limiting exports to the 1980 level. 
Government and auto com­pany executives who met yes­terday would not discuss their closed-door talks, which the economic daily Nihon Keizei Shimhun reported were in progress. The Ministry of International Trade and Indus­try confirmed it had summoned the auto executives to seperate talks, but officials refused fur­ther comment and auto indus­
pledged to silence. 
The newspaper said officials from three automakers -Honda Motor Co., Mitsubishi Motors Corp. and Fuji Heavy Indus­tries -took part in talks yesterday, and that others would be called in today and Thursday in hopes the mmistry can take a compromise offer to the Reagan administration in Washington next week. 
The newspaper said Toyota and Nissan (makers of Datsun) Motors, heavyweights in the industry here, and Toyo Kogyo, would be called in for the subsequent meetings. 
'Kyodo News Service,quo­
ting unidentified sources, said the executives argued they would be willing to hold ex­ports to 1.82 million but go no further. The company officials also were quoted by Kyodo as saying the limits should be for just one year. 
In Washington, Sen. John Danforth, R-Mo., is pushing for passage of his bill to limit 

try spokesmen said they were Japanese auto imports to 1.6 
HPC and. PACE prepare report for Fr. Hesburgh 
social space was sharply criti­By MIKE DUPLESSIE cized in last night's meeting. News Staff The faults of the LaFortune 
Student Center were also dis­

The first study group of cussed. Student Body President University Provost Timothy Don Murday stated that LaFor­O'Meara's Priorities and Com­tune "was not serving it's point mitments for Excellence as a student center.'' He went (PACE] committee met last on to stress the need for a night with the Hall Presidents centralized social space. Mur­Council to garner information day also cited a study he had for their report to Father Hes­completed which he believed burgh. PACE's function is to exposed unnecessarily high identify strengths and weak­prices in the Deli. nesses on the cam.Pus to deter­The study group also dis­mine which activities should be cussed such areas as the office given priority attention. of the Dean of Students, the 
The HPC voiced opinions ont Student . Health Center and the merits of many campus Security, noting the beneficial organizations and student ser­points and the problems asso­vices. The lack of available ciated with each. 
By TIM VERCELLOTTI 
News Editor 

One of the major concerns of Arts and Letterss students is the prospect of finding a job after graduation. At times, students may q_uestion the ''marketability'' of a degree in a particular field. With this in mind, several faculty members of the arts and Letters College have established the COmpu1er Applications Program; a second major which enhances the students' liberal arts background, as well as improves one's chances of finding a job in his or her field. 
The program, now entering its third year, is coordinated by ED-NES 
Prof. C. Lincoln W DAV:'.!.::::::::::::::::: 
£t~;t1;:~ ,,,,,,,,,,,....Focus 
and Research Laboratory. According t? Joh~son, some ~xper­ience with computers IS qutckly becommg a million units a year for the next three years. The Republican­controlled Senate could vote on the measure as early as next month. 
President Reagan and Prime Minister Zenko Suzuki are scheduled for a summit meet­ing May 7 and 8. Officials in both governments are trying to resolve the issue so as not to cast a shadow over their meeting. 
Japan automakers have said the beleagured U.S. auto ind­ustry brought about its own problems by failing to respond early enough to the growing demand by Americans for fuel­efficient cars. 
Japan last year captured 21 percent of the total auto sales 10 the United States. Eight of every 10 foreign-make cars bought by Americans were 
Japanese. 
Supporters of protectionist measures argue Japan has been able to garner such a huge share of the market because of lower labor costs. 
Last year, General Motors, Ford, Chrysler and AMC, the big four U.S. automakers, re­ported losses totaling $4.2 bil­lion, their worst year in his­tory. As of last week, 170,000 autoworkers were on indefinite layoffs. 


Randy Fahs discusses with a group of 18 students an approach to protesting the planned appearance ofPresident Reagan at commencement May 17. [photo hy Beth PrezioJ 
In protest ofaid 


Solidarity collects signatures 
By KELU FLINT mittees that were functioning Senior StaffReporter-at Saint Mary's, Notre Dame, and the Justice and Peace 
volunteers working for the El Center in South Bend, accor­Salvador Solidarity group are ding to activity coordinator Sr. gatherin~ signatures from stu­Carolyn Burgholzer. dents this week in sup~;>ort of ''The groups that these three the U.S. bishops' pos1tton re­organizations initiated came garding United States military together and formed the El aid for El Salvador. Salvador Solidarity group," 
The Solidarity group is the she said. ''The collection of result of three separate com-signatures on petitions su(>pOr­ting the bishops' position ts an 
actton of that group.

ALprogram ''This week, students will be working the dorms to set support. We will then approach the faculty and staff,

Computer major enhances studies 
both here and at Saint Mary's. 
''Through this activity we 

prerequisite in the job market. hope to show the support of the Notre Dame-Saint Mary's com­
The program, now entering its third year, is munity for the bishops' state­coordinated by Prof. C. Lincoln Johnson, ment asking the Americandirector of the Social Science Training and government to stop military aid R~search Laboratory. According to Johnson, to El Salvador. 
some experience with computers is quickly "We are trying to show thatbecoming a prerequisite in the current job a significant number of peoplemarket. 
from what we consider to be a"I think it is pretty clear that in today's age significant Catholic academicpeople really aren't well-educated unless they community support the bishops have some familiarity with what computer in the leadership that theytechnology is, what it can do, and what its have taken in this situation.

limitations are," he explained. 
"We will be sending a copyAt present there are sixty students in the of the results to the UnitedCAPP program, 17 of whom will receive degrees States Bishops' Conferencenext month. 

showing that we support them. 

The program requires the successful comple­
· We are also sending a copy to
tion of 24 credit hours, including nine hours of President Reagan, and wecomputer languages, a three-credit J?hilosophy 
hope to get to the media. ' course entitled "Technology and Soctety," and "We would like to get nat!

See MAJOR, page 3 ional exposure if we could, to show our support for the bishops in takmg their stand against military aid,'' she explained. 
Sr. Carolyn, Brother Rodney Struble, and freshman Felicien Brown are coordinating the activity for the Notre Dame campus. Sr. Mary Turgi and Dr. Albert LeMay are coordi­nators for the Saint Mary's campus. Rita Kopczynski, a staff member at the Justice and Peace Center in South Bend, and part-time librarian for the Notre Dame Law School library, is the overall chairman of the Solidarity group. 

We're assuming that most students know very little about the Church's position with regard to El Salvador," Bro. Rod said. 
"We all know the bishops' position on Right to Life. Wuh regard to other issues, such as Sunday collection, we all know their position. But regarding El Salvador; the people's plight, the church -we know very little, other than what we read in the newspaper. 
''As for the church's position -it doesn't always get front page. 
"Our objective in this acti­vity is to sttr interest and raise awareness. This will be done by volunteers simply going around their dorms 

,­
-------------------------------~--­


News Brieb 
wednesday, April22 -page 2 

~~~======~==============================~ 
by The Obserz,er and The Associated Press 
Governors see familiar Reagan ­
WASHINGTON (AP) -President Ronald Reagan, who is 
currently lobbying members of Congress to vote for his 
economic program, met privately with eight governors at 
the living quarters of the White House, all of whom later 
told reporters they support the administration's program of 
tax and spending cuts. 

"He looked very much himself," Gov. Robert Orr of 
Indiana said afterwards. His meeting with the ~overnors 
was part of the same lobbying effort the President ts making 
out of the White House while he recuperates from a bullet 
wound in the left lung. 


Chinese Ambassador Nixon?­
GREENCASTLE Ind. (AP) -Citizens in the People's Republic of China would welcome President Reagan's appointment of former President Richard M. Nixon as U.S. ambassador to that country, a touring Chinese journalist and professor said yesterday. Hubert S. Liang said Nixon's initiative as president in re-establishing relations between the two countries has made him popular there. Lian~ made his remarks during a luncheon at DePauw University, the central Indiana college that he graduated from in 1926. Liang, who teaches English and journalism at the University of Nanking, said many Chinese believe Americans are unfairly judging Nixon solely on his role in Watergate. 

Agnew accepts lion's share-
ANNAPOLIS Md. (AP) -A one-time head of the State Roads Commission described yesterday how former Vice-President "piro T. Agnew allegedly accepted the lion's share of more than $100,000 in kickbacks from engineers while he was governor of Maryland. The testimony came in the first day of a civil suit seeking to force A~new to pay at least $298,110 to the state treasury as retnbution for the alleged bribes, plus interest. Jerome L. Wolff testified in­Circuit Court that IJ A. "Bud" Hammerman, a friend and advisor to Agnew wnen he was governor in 1967 and 1968, would solicit money from consulting engineers who had been awarded state contracts. Wolff said he and Hammerman would each get one-quarter of the money and that Agner would get the rest. 

Sexual harassment deepens-
WASHINGTON (AJ:'). -Th~ _head of the Equal Employment Opportunlt!es Commtsston said yesterday that s~xual harassmen~ on the job may be deeper and more wtdespread than his agency knows. "Sexual harassment in the_ workplac~ i~ not a figment of the imagination,'' said actmg commtsswner J. Clay Smit Jr. "It is a real problem." Testifying before a Senate Labor subcommittee Smith r~ported on results of guidelines published by th~ EEOC _m November 1980 under which women may file co~platnts of sex~al discrimination. "My instinct tells me thts may be the up of the iceberg,'' said Smith. Smith a Republic~n who is hoping to be named permanently to ~he P?st,_ s_<ud. there hll:s been a steady increase of sex dtscnmmatton cases m the federal courts. He al~'> cited a study by the U.S. Merit Systems Protection Board in which 42 percent. of a group of federally-employed women surveyed satd they had been victims of sexual harassment. 

Students speak freely-
Students of the 1980s are assumed to be more conservative than their late 60s counterparts. But a recent survey by two Kent State University speech professors shows they may be more liberal on one issue-freedom of speech. The survey tallied reactions of 700 students and faculty members toward 31 different subjects, ranging from flag desecration and draft card burning, to dorm search and book censorshiop, says Dr. William Gorden, who with Dr. Dominic Infante conducted the survey. Results of this latest report were compared with those ofa similar survey done in 1970, before four KSU students were killed by National Guardsmen during a 1970 anti-war protest. The two professors found today's students substantially more tolerant toward draft card burners, protesters who occupoy buildings and nudity in campus theatrical productions. In 1969, <l% of those surveyed thought the university had the tight to search dorms, but that figure dropped to 25% iln l'P'). Curting off loan funds to protesters was favored by 6 %in 1969 and by 4: %·in 1979. -Collef!.iate Headlines 

Irish rioting continues ­
BELFAST (AP) -Rioting broke out in Northern Ireland for the seventh day yesterday as Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher refused to make concessions to end the hunger s~rike by Bobby Sands, the jailed IRA guerilla and member of Parliament reported ready to lapse into a coma. An es~iJ?ated 100 y~ung Roll?-an Catholtcs attacked police and Bnush troops wtth gasolme bombs and bricks m Derry's Bo~side quarter and set two mail trucks on fire. There were no tmmediate reports of casualties. 

Weather-

Thundershowers developing. High in the mid 60s. Lows around 50. Partly cloudy tomorrf>w with a chance of thundershowers. High in the low 60s. 


Th~ high-priced prize 

Last week, a first occurred in the world of 
honors and accolades; a Pulitzer Prize was 
returned. The entire Pulitzer fiasco is quite an 
unbeleivable tal~, and to briefly recap, I shall 
start at the story s outset. 

The Pulitzer Committe awarded its most ~ovete~ l!terary award ~nd most prestigious Journaltsttc honor--The Pnze--to the Washington .Post for a feature article authored by staffer Janet Cooke. Ms. Cooke won the Pulitzer for an article which told the _story of an eight-year-old boy named Jimmy, who, hopelessly addicted to heroin, would inject the drug at home. Such 
material obviously makes for good features. 
A week ago Monday, papers ran photos ofMs. 
Cooke, smiling at her desk in the Washington 
Post .newsroom upon hearing her wonderful 
news. A week ago today, Ms. Cooke confessed 
that she fabricated the story, and her academic 
background. She then became the first writer to 
"return" a Pulitzer. The writer also resigned 
from the Post, a polite gesture, indeed. 
Now when the Pulitzer Committee announces 
its selection of J?rize recipients, it traditionally 
releases such mformation as the academic 
backgrounds of the winners. According the the' 
Post, Ms. Cooke received an undergraduate 
degree from Vassar College and a masters 
degree from the University of Toledo. When the 
colleges heard this, however, they found Ms. 
Cooke had, in fact, not received degrees from 
their institutions. So brewed the scandal. 
The writer finally admitted she had duped her 
editors. Ben Bradlee, editor of the Post, 
immediately issued an apology to his paper's 
readers. In more recent editions, the Post ran a 
four-page retraction of the SeJ>tember article 
and explained how they were fooled and had 
never participated in any sort of coverup. 
The entire fiasco poses some interesting 
questions about the media in general. It is 
frightening to think that news could be printed 
and taken as truth, when in reality it was only 
fabricated. If Ms. Cooke had not won a Pulitzer, 
no one would have ever discovered the ruse. 
If such a respected writer from such a 
respected newspaper won such a respected 
award from such a respected committee, and the 
only way the fraud emerged was because she 
won the award, just think how simple it would be 
for the smaller writers on the smaller publica­
tions to fabricate and print. The question 
arises:Just how accurate is the news? 
The entire fiasco in which an established 
journalist risks and loses everything with her 
stunt says something not only about the media, 
but also about society itself. The woman, 
according to the Post staff, was acknowledged as 
a talented writer, so obviously her emfloymtnt 
status was not in any danger. The 1000 cash 
award that accompanies a Pulitzer, does not 
seem like a large enough bribe for the risks 
involved. Why then would she fabricate such a 
story and risk so much to gain the transitory 
glory which accompanies a prize? Such a 
question only Ms. Cooke could adequately 
answer. 
Wire copy detailing the fiasco said the mood 
at the Post's newsroom was a mixture of anger 
and sadness. Anger somehow does not seem 
quite right. Even though Ms. Cooke embar­
rassed both her newspaper and the Pulitzer 
Committe, she threw away her career and could 
possibly face severe legal recourse. How could 
anyone be genuinely mad at someone who took 
such desperate measures and faces such harsh 
consequences? 
Sadness, however, seems equally extreme. How could anyone sincerely feel sad for Ms. Cooke since she "lost" the Pulitzer? Perhaps one could feel sad that so much was lost but then the writer was the cause of her ~own downfall--and did stoop despicably low. 
Overall, the writer seems to be as much of a victim as an offender. I think the fiasco represents the '80s and the implicit motto the decade seems to be advocating: Succeed at all costs--regardless. Though Ms. Cooke had falsified her academic background to obtain employment, on the surface, she was a "successful" journalist since she was writing for such an acclaimed newspaper, which did not have a clue to her true situatton. It would appear then that she simply wanted to succeed a tad bit more, to gain an additional edge and an ounce more prestige. Such a desire merely mirrors the competitive, always-reaching-for-more society that we now live in. 
Said one Post reporter, "They don't give prizes for five years of consistent craftsman­ship ...The emphasis is on making a big splash.'' 
Sometimes, splashes drown. 
Observer notes---------, 
Due to technical difficulties in our type­setting equipment, The Observer had to re_vert to our former compugraphic style. We wtll return to our usual printing style in tomorrow's issue. 
Tomorrow's issue will also feature a sports supplement on Bookstore Basketball. 
The Observer is always looking for new reporters--experience is not necessary. Ifyou like to write, come up to our offices (3rd floor LaFortune) and talk to one of our news editors. They'll be glad to get you started. 
The_Ohseryer 
''The Ship is Sinking'' 
Night Editor 
Greg 'Main Mast' Swiercz 
Assistant Night Editors 
Lisa 'Icebergs' Bontempo Elizabeth 'Bulkheads' Clay Kim 'not a Swabbie' Parent 
News Editor 
Tim 'Walking the Plank' V ercellotti 
Copy Editor 
Valerie 'Cruise director' 
Evans 
Sports Copy Editor 
, Chris 'Mayday' Needles 
Emergency Typists 
Cindy 'Hey Sailor' Jones Bruce 'Any Port in a Storm' Oakley 
Photographer 
Beth 'Seaweed' Prezio 
Guest Appearances 
Ryan 'Minnow' Ver Berkmoes Rick 'Little Dinghy' Hermida John 'Captain's Boy' McGrath 


Daisy Sale! 
Order during dinner 
only $1.00 per bunch delivered Thursday ND-SMC 


Al'f ~futleHm Utfe11e3fed Ut joildMg Ike 
1981..82 A'tf3 & .£effe10 SfudeMl Advi381tY Cotutcle 
fieo6e emcWet Ly frtiday fke 24fk 9wm 8001 HowD1Ul 1725 


~ 6947 

The Observer 

Used furniture 


Student Union plans auction 
~---~-~ -----~----­

Wednesday, April 22 -page 3 
An Tostal Committee members demonstrate the good lapsitting form necessary to break a world record tomoTTOw at the An Tostal picnic. 
All PITTSBURGH Club members Announcing Elections!!! 
Applications for those members wanting to 
for office will be auailable at the Student Actiuities Office first floor Lafortune April 21 to May I 
9-3 

traveled use for business lunches, huying clothes for work, paying for vacations-for all sorts of after-schlX)l activities. 
One of the surest ways to establish yourself is to start out as if you were already established. And just having the Card gives you the chance to establish a solid credit rating. 
So trade up now. Yt)u'll find application t(xms on campus hulletin boards. Or call toll-free 800-528-8000 and ask for a Special Student Appli­cation. And set yourself up for next year before you finish this one. 

The American Express Card. Don't leave school without it. 
By JIM McCLURE 
News Staff 
The Student Union Services Commission will be holding a furniture auction Thursday, April 30 at 6 p.m. in Stepan Center. Students will have the opportunity to buy and sell such items as chairs, sofas, tables and carpets. A professional auctioneer will be on hand, and there is no service charge. 
Trucks will be available at drop-off centers to transport furniture to Stepan Center with soecific times and locations for drop-offs outlined on campus 
continued from page 1 
twelve hours of advanced 
courses. Independent studies 
are also available to senior 
CAPP majors. 
Johnson is quick to point out 
that the CAPP second-major is 
not a study in computer 
science. "Computer science 
teaches you about the nuts and 
bolts of the machinery. We 
don't teach that. We teach the 
elements of programming lan­
guage and give s~dents a lot of 
hands-on expenence so that 
they are familiar with the use of 
computers,'' he stated. 
The CAPP major serves as a supplement, rather than a sub­stitute for a student's primary course of study, according to Johnson. "The liberal arts deg­re~ provides students with the flexibility to do a lot of different things. The CAPP program enhances that flexibiltty,'' he said. 
Johnson also suggested that 
a computer applications major 
would aid students who mi~ht 
be insecure about the JOb 
prospects of a graduate with 
skills that they feel they can use 
in the job market," he said. 
Johnson explained that in 
addition to improving one's 
marketability, aCAPP degree 
will aid applicants to graduate 
schools,'' he said. 
The CAPP major will also give students a proficiency with statistics, which Johnson sees as important in the iob market. "I can't think of a single profession where you don't have to deal with either the evaluation of some kind of statistical report that's been given to you, or your own evaluation of a program that you are running'" Johnson explained. 
Johnson termed the market­ability of students with CAPP degrees "fantastic." "If you 
This coupon entitles you to a 80% I 
SAVINGS on one cassette copy. The 
prices listed below Include the I 
R.ezound Copy Cassette!® 
cu1. COPY aao. w1m 
I 
I.RIIOTH TIMR PRICR COUPOII 
30 min I min 12 19 11.011 
60 rnm 2 man 12 89 Sl.411 
I 
90 mm 3 min 13 "79 11.81 
Th;"nHd~·m;~79 N~t;e I 1 Dame Bookstore I I12e21:>lND® Coupon r~xplres I 
L ~~Nit~ ___ May.:::: 1~1 J 

posters to be distributed later this week. An off-campus drop­off center will be located at Campus View Apartments. Those wishing to drop off merchandise in person may do so at Stepan Wednesday, April 29 from 6 p.m. until mtdnight, and Thursday, April 30 from 1 
p.m. until 6 p.m. Items will be auctioned off in the order they are tagged or brought in with the merchan­
dise open for inspection on April 30 from 4 p.m. until 6 
p.m. Refreshments will be available from a concession stand during the auction. 
look at the Sunday want ads of any major metropolitan News­paper, the need for people who are computer programmers or who even have some knowledge of statistical packages is just phenomenal,'' he said. 
Johnson listed a few of the 

Student Union Services Com­missionerJohnJ. Kelly empha­sized that no middleman is 
involved in the auction. Kelly stated that sellers ''will get full value for their items. The 
advantage to buyers is that they will have the widest selection possible.'' 
This is the first time an on-campus furniture auction is being held. "We expect a 
stron~ turnout, but we're really countmg on a large number of sellers to make the auction a success," said Kelly. 
• • . Major 

liberal arts fields where com­puters are used; these included linguistics, historical research and English. 
'It turns out that there are computer applications in almost every field you can think of,'' he stated. 
If you have a $10,000 job waiting for you, you could have an American Express® Card right now. 
Trade the card you've been using every day for the Card you'll be using the rest of your life. 
You're about to leave sch<.x>l and enter a whole new world. You've got great expectations. So does American Express. For you. 
TI1at's why American Express has created a special plan that reduces the usual applicc1tion requirements-so you can get the Card bd( 're you finish sch(x)l. 
All you need to apply is a $10,000 job or the promise ofone. You'll use the Card the wealthy and the well­

------~---------­




Editorials 
Wednesday, April 22 -page 4 
The elusive education continues 
I never let schoolget in the way of would have to be some sort of tes­means all bad. To lucky, students. An extensive re­spectacle. It is productive of end­
my education. ting program, of course, but per­determined and/or gifted in­
evaluation of plans and priorities less fads and panaceas; it is preten­
-Mark Twain haps it could work on the English dividuals, Notre Dame probably of­would be necessary for such im· tiously scientific and at the same College would be great if you system, where there is only six fers the best education that is provements, and any university time pathetically conventional; itdidn't have to go to class. weeks ofactual class and the rest of available in this country at the m·o­that could offer these kinds of op­is scornful ofthe past, yet painfully 
-Dave Yordy, Notre Dame '82 the term is spent reading and ment. Very few universities offer portunities would have to either 
inarticulate when it speaks of the discussing the material to be the kinds of extra-curriculars and run its own high school or else be future." It looks like I picked the right covered in class. the access to professors that Notre extremely selective. There has to time to write about education. In my dream system, professors Dame does. But this seems to be be something done, or we will be Newsweek, The New Republic and would serve as Socratic sages tliat the exception rather than the saying 50 years from now as Boyd other assorted publications challenged and criticized the ideas norm, as perhaps it must. It would Bode said fifty years ago, Anthony Walton's "Outside devoted themselves to the ques­of the students, instead ofdispens­be nice, though, if there were a "American education is a confus­Wednesday" appears weekly on tion of education in the United ing "knowledge" as they do now. way to extend these benefits to all ing and not altogether edifying the Editorials page. States. I guess education is a per­Sometimes I wonder if professors tinent topic these days, what with actually think students do all that all the turmoil involved on issues work that they assign. How many as varied as busing and federal fun-times have you heard someone say "Professor So-and-So thinks this is WELL JOHN~ WE JU51 my only class." What ends up
Anthony Wolton PUT AMEff!CA INTO A
harrening in our current srstem is 

that a student develops an NEW ERA IN .5PACE ... . elaborate shell game to finesse his 
Outside Wednesday NDW 5PACE 15 FDR 1/1[
way through mountains of work. Students learn how to play both PEOPLE... JOHN, WE 'Vf 
ding. Last week I talked about sides agains the middle, and then ,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,.,,,.,,,,,,,,,,"TAKEN ANOTHER STEP 
some of the general crises in 
the middle against the end, and American education, and I will while they can escape, very often, !NTO TH( FUfUAE 
continue in the satne vein, only 
with healthy grade points, which more specifically. 
are the true objectives ofthe game,It is safe to say that American 

they also manage to avoid learning education is in a state offlux, and is 
anything. And they spend $7,000 a at a very crucial crossroads in 
year doing it. terms of its future. The problem 
Which brings me to good old with this problem is that people do 
Notre Dame. Notre Dame is clearly not really perceive it as a problem. 
one of the best schools in the Mid­School is seen as just as much of a 
west, and some would say one of part of life as it has always been, 
the best in the country. Perhaps. If and because students can still read 
Notre Dame is one of the upper­and add, there is nothing, on the 
echelon schools in the country, surface, to worry about. But there 
then perhaps that is the problem. seems to be a rising concern, at 
Notre Dame suffers tremendously least among the press and certain 
from the student-professor shell intellectuals, that there is a 
game that I spoke of previously. problem, and something needs to 
There also seems to be some con­be done, (pre-strike cartoon)
fusion in the administrative offices I agree with this wholehearted­

ofcertain coUegea as to what their ly, because as I said last week, I am 
respective missions are. An ex­very dissatisfied with my educa­
ample of this is the proposed Arts tion. There has not been any sort of 
and Letters Business Program, 


P.O. Box Q
cohesive or continuous force in­
which seems to be a contradiction volved, and it has consisted of hit­
in terms. I understand the rationale or-miss connections with 
behind such a proposal, but I think It is truly the show that never ends. ter world, but '!iomeday, perhaps,individual teachers and professors it smacks ofsellingout to pressures 


r reading Anthony Walton's It is boring. we'll be as civilized as the rest of
who happened to touch or strike from direct directions as to the show that never ends" (April Are Americans inherently more the world. 
me in a special way. Most of my utility ofan Arts and Letters educa­I ), I feel that this is indicative of violent and selfish than other We are not a nation ofsaints, but
time in school has been spent hur­
tion. This proposal can only liberal mindset, the hate­human beings? I doubt it. (One im· to suggest that we are a nation ofriedly memorizing something the weaken the college, because Arts mentality, that breeds a agines Mr. Walton, after examining John Hinckleys is not only absurd,day before a test, then forgetting it and Letters should be involved of masochists. "We are un­the latest crime statistics, coming it is perverse. Mr. Walton shouldas I answered each question. So I'm with educating Arts and Letters " they chant monotonously to the conclusion that black attempt to control himself whenin a situation where I don't remem­students, not quasi-business they flagellate themselves -people are a race ofcriminals.) It's near a typewriter: what he does tober much if anything about last majors. Resour.ces devoted to any American unlucky enough true that our country has yet to logic is itself an act of violence.

semester, except for an interesting programs like this would be better 
be near. This is how the de· produce a selfless leader like a Hit·book here and there, and that 
spent developing a more coherent Ed Graham
mented act of a lunatic is trans· ler, or a Stalin, or a Mao, willing toseems to me .to be a very expensive 
and unified college. U. ofWisconsin
formed into an accurate reflection slaughter millions of people as anon-vacation. 
Notre Dame, however, is by no Madison, Wise.
of"the state ofthe American soul." prerequisite for establishing a bet·
And that's what college is nowadays, either a high-powered vocational school where one learns to be an accountant, or an 
Ih:>nesbury Garry Trudeau 
engineer, or a doctor, or else it is 

four years ofsporadic herculean ef­forts which are forgotten as soon as the paper is turned in. That's where my epigrams come in. School really doesn't have much to do with your education, and man, would college be great if you didn't have to go to class: Then you could learn something. And this isn't that far from the truth. Im­agine a school, although it would have to be filled with committed and concerned students, where the learning was done through ex­changes ofknowledge and ideas in­stead of rote memorization of esoteric and mundane facts. There 

I'M SORRY
WHATARE 

7HATU/(}(JL.O I KNOW, BUT
OUK&? 15 
YOUOO!NG!N 
THAT YOU, 

HAV& 8eEN I OON7tu4NNA
WASHINGTON? THAT5 

YaJR RIGHT. GtTTHROWN
I THOUGfiT.. ClOSE 





Editorial Board and Department Managers

==Ihe Obset:Ver==-= 
Editor·in·Chief.... . ....john McGrath SMC Executive Editor ....................Mary Agnes Carey 
Box Q, Notr~ Dame, IN 46556 

il1anaging Editor . ... .... ..... . ..........Tom Jackman SMC News Editor ..............................Cathy Domanico
The Observer is an independent newspaper published b~ the ~tudenh ot the 
Executir•e .Veu•s Editor.. . .. .................... Lynne Daley Photo Editor...... . ......................... .John Macor Untverstty of Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's Colle~e It does not nece-,,anh 
,\leu's Editor..... ........................ . . .Tim Vercellotti reflect the policies of the administration of e1ther tnsututton. Th<'.' new-, ,.., reported Veu•s Editor... . . .............. .john Higgins Business Manager ... ................................Rich Coppola as accurately and as objectively as possible. Ednonals repres<'.'nt the opmton of a Senior Copy Editor.. .. ... Mary Fran Callahan Controller... . ....................... .Joe Mul.ftur majority of the Editorial Board. Ct>mmentanes, opm1ons. and letters are the \'lew-, .\ports Editor... . .... Michael Ortman Advertising Manager ... .................................Mark EUis of thetr authors. Column space is available ro all m<'.'mbers of the communuv. and Features Eclitor... 
..... Rick Hermida Production Manager ........ .......... Ryan Ver Berkmoes Circulation Manager ....... ................Tom MacLennan
the fr<'.'e expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters. ,.., enu1uraged. 
-------~~--~--~-~ 
The Obsetwer _____ _ 
T0 da~====================w=edn=es=da=y,=A=pril=·=22=·-=pa=ge~5 
Molarity 
Carroonisr Srrih No Molarily 



Michael Molinelli 

The Daily Crossword 

All Rights Reserved 

ACROSS 25 Je vous -56 Reject 24 Eastern 1 O'Hara home 28 Sweethearts 58 Reverence nursemaid 5 Sandwich 34 Expression 61 "Ethan-" 25 Item in 9 Pieces of contempt 62 Supplies black 
of land 36 Shade of temporary 26 "First-, 
14 Mimic blue aldto first ln.•." 15 Latin poet 37 French 64 Strength of 27 Watered 16 Richards nobleman a solution silk fabric 
of tennis 38 Make no 65 Smallbllls 29 Merman 
17 Sweeping waves 66 Ibsen 30 Ofage: abbr. majority 42 In one -heroine 31 -a dozen vote and out... 67 Reaches 32 English 
19 Consumed 43 "Dies-" 68 Exchanges royal 20 "Me -my 44 Apia's land vows house 
shadow" 45 Sites for 69 Dlll,once 33 Anglo-Saxon 21 Senior rat races coin 22 Concerning 49 Sprightly DOWN 35 Thumb 23 Shoe or 50 Luplno 1 Wodehouse exercisers 
family 51 Suits to -good-bye 39 La Douce 24 Aggregate: 53 "I want -2 "See-and 40 Pacific abbr. just like..." pick..." 
porgy 3 Foxx 41 Record a Thursday's Solution 4 Parseghlan TV show 

5 Screamed 46 Pilots 6 Onewho 47 Praised 
gets away 48 Accent 7 Tear apart 52 Navyman: 8 Czech river abbr. 9 lntroduc· 53 Matinee 
tions times: abbr. 10 Shack 54 Satchel 11 Feed the 55 Tittle 
kitty 56 Pack away 
12 Adolescent 57 Evergreen 13 Mailed 58 Bard's river 18 Celtic 59 "TheWay 
sea god We-" 23 Period of 60 QEDword service 63 Go-tear 
·campus 
• 
4:15 p.m.--lecture, "infla­tion and world disorder in the 1980s, part i, prof. dudley sears, univ. of sus­sex, engr. aud. cushing. 

• 
4:30 p.m.--tri-military re­view, nd stadium, spons: nd rotc. 


4:30 p.m.--lecture, "effi­ciency of thermal and chemical engines,'' prof. john ross, 123 nieuwland. 

· • dinner--daisy sale, nd and smc dining halls, spon: an tostal committee 
• 
dinner--tuck-in sign-ups, nd and smc dining halls, spon: ~n costal committee 

• 
dinner--umoc voting, din­Ing halls, spon: an tostal committee. 

• 
6 p.m.--meeting, nd gym­nastics team, rockne mem­orial, 3rd floor 

• 
6:45--films, •·•power to change," "a thousand suns,"-"incident at brown's ferry," 3~1 mad­eleva hall ']sff!c]. -spon: s.u.r.e., free 

• 
7 p.m.--film, "distant thunder," engr. aud., spon: govt. dept. ' 

• 
7 p.m.--film, "limelight," arch. aud., spon~ chaplin film series, $1. 

• 
7 p.m.--semi-finats, trivia bowl, wash. hall, spon: an costal committee 

• 
7:30 p.m.--film and speaker, ''crossroads: south africa,'' peter walsh follows, lib. au d., spon: amnesty international 

• 
7:30 p.m.--lecture, "pa­ternalistic treatment of children: on making moral persons," prof. hugh Iafol­lette, east tenn. u., 161 lemans [smc], spon: philo dept. . • 7:30--meeting, "primacy of conscience and conscien­tious objection," ba.ement of sacred heart _presbytery, spon: pax christ! 

• 
8 p.m.--concert, . area composers' concert, little theatre, [smc], spon: music dept. 

• 
8 p.m.--lecture, "funda­mentalism," prof. james barr, u. of oxford, galvin aud. · 



Argonne Director 
Dr. El Massey 
addresses banquet 

Summer Storage Master Mini Warehouses Special Rates 
eVERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS e APPROXIMATELY 21/2 
MILES NORTH  
e  MICHIGAN STATE LINE ON U.S. 31 N  
e  GATES OPEN ALL DAY SUNDAY AND EVERYDAY  
683-1959·  



Dr. Walter El Massey, Direc­tor of Argonne National Labora­tory near Chicago, will ,present the concluding speech at the annual Initiation Banquet of the Notre Dame Chapter of Sigma Xi, the honorary Scientific Research Society of North America, .at 8:15 ·p.m. this evening in the basement dining area of the Notre Dame Center for Continuing Education. The banquet is honoring 33 newly elected members. · 
Dr. Massey, a young black physicist prominent in. both teachmg and research; . has headed the Argonne National Lab since 1979. He ,is also reco~~ize~ for his effe~tive paructpatton on several umver­sity boards of trustees, profes­sional societies and · ·the National Science ·Board:' His talk will be of general'interest 
and is open  to  the  unive.r;sity  
community.  ..  ,  
,.  




The Observer Wednesday, April 22 -page 6 
ATTENTION ALL GRADUATING STUDENTS 

Measurements will be taken for 
Caps and Gowns 
Monday April 27 Tuesday April 28 Between 9:00 -4:00 
at the 
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 

PUT WINGS ON 
YOUR COLLEGE DEGREE 
Your professional flying 
career could start 
with ~ phone call 
The United States Air Force offers some unique career­starting advantages to college graduates between 20\12 and 27 years old. After graduation from Officer Training School you'll earn over $16,000 per year while attending flight training; automatic increases plus promotion in rank can raise your income to $28,000 in just 4 years. And you'll acquire valuable training and experience that will pay off in civilian life ... like a head start on a flying career ... or impressive leadership and million-dollar responsibility credentials to go with your degree. Benefits include 30 days paid vacation annually, world-wide air travel. medical care and much more. Call now for more information without obligation. It's a great way to serve your country' 
The Air Force Pilot and Navigator Interview team will be at the South Bend Ramada Inn 
on app April ointm 24th. ent.  CaU  219-233-4747  for  an  
Air Force ... A Great Way of Life  


High enthuiasm 
Wotnen begin Bookstore play 'i 
By KELLY SULLIVAN 
Sports Writer 

jjeJow-normal temperatures didn't prevent above-average enthusiasm from prevailing at yesterday's first-round action of women's bookstore basket­ball. 
Saint Mary's junior Lisa Gasiorek established hc;-self as an early contender for the coveted "Hoosier Award," connecting on six of 18 shots for The Punks That Can Whip It Good. Her effort was to no avail, as Jan Schlaff's eight buckets lea The Filed Five to a 
continued from page 8 
Notre Dame beckoned. 
"I was fortunate to be with Gerry when he got the job," said Higgins. "I came with him because I enjoy coaching, and this was a very good opportunity. I don't have any aspirations to be a head coach 
right now. I just want to do the 
best job I can, wherever I am. • • 
While at moeller, Higgins Y~as also a teacher of English Literature and Theology. Ta­
king the position here at Notre 
Dame has meant that he will be forced to give up that part of his career, however. 
"I think I am going to miss teaching a little bit,'' he said, "but I think I'll be able to make up for that by establish­ing a closeness with the play­ers. I mean the season is longer, and you have weight training in the off season, and 21-11 win over the Punks. 
B.P. Enforcers suffered the day's biggest rout. Just min­utes before the game, The Enforcers had only one avail­able player. They found four others, but managed only one basket in their loss to Loonie Rooney's & Co. 
Freshman Pam Fischette, a proven competitor on the ten­nis courts as Notre Dame's No. 3 singles player, displayed fine athletic prowess on the basket­ball court, hitting nine shots, a first-round scoring high, to lead Take It On The Run to a 
yo~ h~ve spring fo~tball -;­whtch ts somethmg--you don t have in high school -so I think the close relationship with the players will kind of make up for my being away from the classroom." 
Higgins added that these are the type of players that make the game enjoyable for him. 
''I don't think I would like to coach in the pros,'' he said. ''I like the high school and col-lege-aged players. I think you can have more of an influence 
on a person's life at that age, rather than at a later time. I also don't I would like to be working with the same players seven, eight years in a row • or whatever the case may be." 
Higgins, who is staying in the Morris Inn for the time being, will be joined by his wife and two young sons m June. When the three arrive, 21-2 win over Go For Blood. 
Volleyball Players Pretend­ing To Be Basketball Players did a good job of it, coming from behind to defeat Tigger's Tigers by 10. 
Miss Iowa & Her Conies and The Unknown Hoopsters are two truly humble teams. Recognizmg the overall lack of talent of squads, the two sides agreed beforehand to shorten the contest to 15 points in an effort to end the 4:45 game before ni~htfall. They did, barely, wtth Miss Iowa tri­umphant by 11. 
• • . Higgins 
they will offer him a diversion from the game that occupies so much of his time right now. 
Until they do arrive, how­ever, the hour and a half or so that he manages to spend reading a night will have to be enough of a respite from football. Not that he's ready to get away yet. 
''You have to get away from the game now and then, and I do that mostly by ~pending time away with my family, or by reading or running and 
working out." 

"Butllike what I'm doing. I am really impressed with the intelligence and the enthu­siasm of the players, and the co-operation I've been setting from everyone. I think this is just an ideal place to work, and I'm very, very ready to start next season. I want to get on with the challenge." 
r-------VALUABLE COUPON.·-------·
I · · Pay for three, 1 the fourth ! is free. 
n KODAK Color Reprints 
• Bring in this coupon with your 
0 
Kodacolor film negatives from your
c:: 
"'0 favorite pictures. 
• Get 4 KODAK Color Reprints for the
0 
price of 3.

z 
• Hurry, offer ends May 13, 1981.
IIThe Hammes Notre Dame 
COLOR 


PROCESSING 
•• Kodak 

I
1 Bookstore
&.--------CLIP AND SAVE --------J 
Artists, matketing majots, ot othets••• •••if you find this ad lacki~g or. would like to use your talents productively 
Apply for Publicity Comm~ssion 
for the comang year 

layout personnel Advertising coordinators Poster & flyer distributors 
paid position 

Leave name & qualifications with Secretary, 2nd floor Lafortune by April 24th 
I
1 
• 
2 z 
::l 
0 
u 
I I I 

• 

SJPorts~13~r=ie~s~~~T=========~~~==~w=~=e=~=~=,A=p=ro=22=-=pa=ge~7 
Toman to U. O:Y;:~:anr .tnd Tht· Arrouated Pr,·•l ~~~~¥rSOOKSTORfi;,1j:~ ~~e:b~e/5) over The Master WOMEN'S BOOKSTORE 
Ron Toman, who had served as an assistant coach for five seasons under Dan Devine but was not rehired by Gerry Faust, was named yesterday as an offensive assistant at the University of Texas. Toman, an Irish varsity/erformer from 1960-62, had coached the quarterbacks an receivers while at ND.-The Observer 
ND Women's softball split 
The Irish women's softball team split a doubleheader at P':lrdue yesterda~. The_pitching of Jill Strenzel paced the Insh to a 7-5 victory m the opener· the Boilermakers th•mgh, captured the nightcap, 11-1. Notre Dame now 3-l on the year, will face Valparaiso on Thursday 'at South Bend's O'Brien Field. -The Observer 
Zampedro wins tourney 
The An Tostai_Golf Tournament was contested yesterday on Burke Me mortal. A t~tal. of ?6 gol_fers participated. Jon Zampedro won the. men s dtvlston wtth a nine-hole total of 
36. Three golfer~ tted for second with 37-Jim Woll, Mike Gunther and Cra1g Peters. In the Women's division Kathy Im~onen won first pl~ce honors with a _46. Marcy 'Trybus w~s sec_ond after shoottng a 49 and Caroline Carson finished th1rd 'Yith a 54. _T_rybus also won the all-around closest to the_ ptn competttto~ by landing her tee shot 15-feet, 11-mches from the pm on the 157-yard sixth hole. -The 
Observer 
Irish Baseball takes four of six 
Resuming action over the Easter weekend, the Notre Dame baseball team took four games in six decisions. On Thursday, the Fighting Irish played host to the Bulldogs of Butler and swept their fourth straight doubleheader. This time it was the Irish pitching that led the way in 2-1 and 4-3 victories. Bob Bartlett (5-2) and Mike Deasey (4-2) were the pitchers of record as they were for the Notre Dame doubleheader win against Ball State on Monday. Bartlett won another one run decision, 3-2, and Deasey pitched the second Irish shutout, 8-0. Sandwiched between these victories, Notre Dame lost twice, 4-3 and 8-7, at U. of Detroit on Saturday. The Irish season record is at 15-12-1 and their home record is a sparkling 11-1. Today, Notre Dame travels to Rensselaer, Indiana, to face St. Joseph's to ma_ke up a doubleheader which was rained out last Tuesday. Th1~ ~eekend, the Irish will play in the Rocky Miller Invttattonal tournament sponsored by Northwestern Uni­versity in Chicago. -The Observer 
Lacrosse team meets MSU 
Notre Dame lacrosse coach Rich O'Leary must believe that his team is an exception to Dorothy's rule that "there's no place like home.'' The Irish dropped two home lacrosse decisions last weekend, losing to d1visional foes Ohio State (9-6 on Thursday) and Ashland (10-9 on Saturday). Although they outscored both opponents by two goals in the second half of each game, the Irish nevertheless managed only two goals in each of the sluggish first halves en route to their third and fourth Midwest Lacrosse Association setbacks (all at home). Notre Dame won its only two league games on the road, so the Irish sport a 2-4 MLA mark and a 3-5 overall slate heading into today's MLA clash with Michigan State at 3:30 p.m. on Stepan Field. The Irish whipped the Spartans 12-4 in East Lansing two weeks ago. -The Observer 
• 

Classifieds 
First Round 

Lyons 11 
Yesterday's Results 

Jim Pink & the Blues over The 
Stepan 5 Yesterday's Results Open Facers by 4 

Your Mother over Debbie
FOUR1H ROUND A Touch of Class over Rheme Ficker by forfeit 
Stepan 1 Machine by 10 Athletes Out of Action over Visual Orgasm over Rockets in Stepan 6 Roemer's Narc Squad by 2 Our Pockets by 11 Filed Five over The Punks That US (9( over East-Coasters by 5 Head Over Heels over Wrecked Can Whip It Good by 10 Nebo's II over J.J.'s Team 'em as a Whole by 3 
Stepan 7 

Wants ... by 5 ' Lyons 12 Looney Rooney's & Co. overStepan 1 Re-classified Nads over Gone B.P. Enforcers by 14Hill's Angels over Flight by 12 With the Wind by 7 Miss Iowa & Her Cornies overTake this Ball and Shove It over Gimme Hett over Oral Six by 5 The Unknown Hoopsters by 12William Futtbuckly & the Greek 4Jerks & a Dribbler over CF by Cindy Batte! over Facials byIntellectuals by 10 7 forfett
Stepan 3 Chipigula & the Debauchers 6 Stepan 8 over Chainsaw & His 4 Beavers SECTIONAL FINALS Maura Hart over The Body
by 8 Today's Games Human Phase II by 15Capt. Vaseline & the Slippery Stepan 1 Volleyball Players... overStrokes over Cotton Pony Tony, 5:30--US v. Take This Ball and Tigger' s Tigers by 10
22-20 (OT) Shove It Take It On The Run over Go ForStepan 4 6:30--The Assassins v. Captain Blood by 19
Dorothy Stratten & the In-Your­Vaseline & the SLippery Face Kids over The Interferons Strokes by 5 The Buzzards over l.M. Stiff Today's Games 
Stepan 2 
Erection Firm by 7 Stepan 1 
5: 30--Chipigula & the De­
Masters of Disaster 8 over 5:30--B.P. Benders v. Take It
bauchers v. Athletes Out of
Morrission Schwartzer & the On The Run 
ActionToxic Wastes by 11 

6:30--The T.P. 's v. Quick Shot
Stepan 5 Stepan 5 
& the Embarrassing Stains 
Jackson 5 (1) over 4 Jerks & a 4:00--Basket Cases v. Loonie
Stepan 3 
Squirt by 4 Rooney's & Co.
5:30--Hill's Angels v. Dorothy
The T.P.'s over Put it in the 4:45--Immoral Minority v. Mary
Stratten & the In-Your-Face
Hole by 9 Murphy
Kids

Stepan 6 Big Organ and His 5:30--Bean Hayeds v. Miss
6:30--Masters of Disaster v.
Bouncing Balls over New Mafia Iowa and Her Cornies
The Buzzards 
by 4 6:15--'hot Stuff II v. Cindy
Stepan 4 
Quick Shot & the Embarrassing Battd
6:30--Jackson 5 v. Big Organ &
Stains over FUBAR by 4 His Bouncing Balls 
Stepan 7 Stepan 6 Bricklayers over Dana's 4:00--Nothing But Gold v. Demon's, 28-26 (OT) Bookstore 9 Return of Dribbling Ovulas 
Stepan 8 4:45--Gimme Hett v. A Touch of 4:45--Short But Sweet v. We Doug Walsh & the High Rates 

Class Bad 
over Good Ole Boys, 22-20 (OT) 
5:30--The Squidleys v. Nebo's 5:30--Your Mother v. Hacks Bookstore 9 II 6: 15--Lyons, Tigers, and Bears 
Tequila White Lightning over 6:30--T.B. Express v. v. L.K.S.F.A. 
Keon's Boundry Spanners, 
McNamara's Band 23-21 (OT) 
Bookstore 10 Stepan 7 The Squidleys over Lex Talionis 4:45--Nell's R.C.M.P.S. v. 4:00--Guy's, Gals v. Maura 
by 7 Hart
Tequila White Lightning T.B. Express (7( over Fluid 5:30--WEBB's End v. Visual 4:45--Filed Five v. Just for Force by 5 
Orgasm Laughs
McNamara's Band over Toxic 6:30--Return of the Nutmeggers 5:30--To Be Named In the Shock Syndrome & the 4 Rely­v. The Bricklayers Finals v. Volleyball Players ... 
abies by 10 Bookstore 10 Stepan 8 
WEBB's End (3) over Atomic Lyons 11 Drops by 6 5:30--Re-Classified Nads v. Jim 4:00--Basic 500's v. Oreo's Nell's R.C.M.P.S. over Larry & Pink & the Blues 4:45--Crime & Punishment v. Gary Wolf, Where Are You? by 6:30--Head Over Heels v. 4 The Graduates 
6 Jerks & a Dribbler 5:30--20th Century Foxes v. Return of the Nutmeggers over Lyons12 Four Babes & ... Humor at the Expense of 6:30--W. Pace v. Doug Walsh & 6:15--Big Mac & The Quarter 
Others by 7 the High Rates Pounders v. Lee Ann Dargas 
----------·----·-···--·-·-· -----------·--------. 
AI• ol n.·,• 11t>l1 .HI~ fl d~T tn• 1•:ren11"1 u.,. 4 45 IJ.', r...vo :u~. ;·,··, ·~1 !r•f' 
1..,..,.11;-' n v\tllod"• !bf• tl 1 '" r~111 The Observer ~.ttu_~ .\>II A_, t•p! ·.~· '''IPdS 
f\..1oP1tlci\ tflfOII~jh Fr~l..-h 1{)00 .1,...... 'II 4 45 I• ,,. ~II ,-ld~!.,f•e(f~ •1 o,l !Jf"' 
IHI'·P.I''I ~>t 1 11e• H1 ,,,lf5011 {Jf lhftJ\J~'I 'tH.. fTldd 

===============--========~============-=--=====================~ 
AVAILABLE SUMMER AND NEXT

LOST A football on Madeleva Foeld. If WANTED: One-way plane llcket to NEEDED MANY TICKETS FOR GRADA­SAVE 50 percent SCHOOL YEAR 5 BEDROOM HOUSE,
you pocked 11 up, please call Janet at ANYWHERE. Please contact JIM TION CALL TIM AT 16500R 1868Roghl now you can save 50 percent olf 1 AND 3 BEDROOM APARTMENTS
4152. GOODE.
the pnce of your first Rezound cassette 
234-2626 
GRADUATION TICKETS NEEDED.
copy. You can copy any cassette Irom 1 

FOUND: A SUM OF MONEY OUTSIDE NEED RIDE to Miami-Ft. Lauderdale WILL PAY$$ Call Jean 7130 mmute to 120 minutes in less than 4 House For Rent 919 So. Bend Ave. 5
OF HAYES-HEALY ON APRIL 14. CALL AFTER GRADUATION lor 1 or 2mmures t1me. both stdes simul­bedrooms, 2 baths call Tom McGann
8906TOCLAIM. people. Call John Hoggms al 8553 or Need 2 GRADUATION TIX Woll pay b•g taneously Oller good through May 31. 
277-346t or 272·9299 

1715 and leave a message. bucks, call Jell at 8620 1981 only at your Hammes Notre Dame 
Bookstote. 

FOUND. Watch on front ol Walsh. Call Robon Flynn at 2843 and identity: Rich cousin needs 4 GA lockets lor USC Do you have 11ckets for a bus or a tratn
House lor SUMMER · LOW RENT OR 
WORK FOR RENT CALL 277-3461 OR game in fall. Call4373 or a plane to ANYWHERE? PLEASE,PRO MAKES THE CHILDREN CRY 

272·9299

RING FOUND NEAR LIBRARY gove them to JIM GOODF SUITER MAKES PRO CRY 
BEFORE '1REAK. CALL 5240 AT SMC HOUSE CALLS 255-2402 TO IDENl 1FY. 
FOR RENT: One ugly person. Great lor --------~ SURVEY 
scaring babies, or ending boring 

Interested in a photography clu~? [ FOR SALE
TYPING, MODEST RATES, 233-9491 LOST: parties. Call JIM GOODE. Due to a
·-Use of Keenan's darkroom lacllitoes. 

--...... '~-·· .. ··-·-~---­
Our lunch. 
·-Lessons on developong and prontong.

TYPING--Only S 85 a page. Call Dan, when we saw JIM GOODE. 
Call Carl al3346 Wed-Fri. 
.. -------------~

272-5549 1974 VW Super Beetle Good condotoon, 
. ··················· breakdown m our NOTICE: 
Los!: Blue Lowenbrau hat in Bridgers WANTED Good mileage Call277-7160 PROFESSIONAL TYPING Term 
[

on Fnday, April 10. Please call 1612 il papers. theses, etc. Tape transcription. found • "··-·--·-"· ..• ""'"-..·-·--· 72 CHEVY Impala, 4-dr.. air, power 
Anyone who sees JIM GOODE, avert 
your eyes to avood pamlast year·a same low pr1ces. All work NEW BRAKES. EXHAUST. TUNE UP 

typesetting system , 
guaranteed aardvark automatic solu­Male housemale wanted lor 81 ·82 
Uses reg. gas. VERY GOOD CONDI· llona 289-6753 school year. Call x10751or inlormatoon. TION. $995. 256·2815 DID YOU KNOW. 
that Jom Goode was born in South 
Bend, bul now loves In Texas? 

FLY WITH USI Learn to solo onaboul30 .............(....... we could not print
lor sale. 72 pontoac catalina. call ERIN days lowest rates m lhts area Based Need riders to BGSU or Canton, Ohoo 234·6298 
JIM GOODE FOR UMOC. 

'I FOR~~_EN_T__.
What a loser. 

at Mtchtana Aegronal Airport ltcensed (or pomts between) on Friday, April24. .. ... 
,,.#..

ptlots may tty our planes also Reg tonal Leavong 1 :00 PM. Call Joe 1840 For sale. Sears Kenmore ·cubrcle
SUMMER APARTMENT Fully 
the personals.

Flymg Club, 277·5006 or 277-5181 relngerator. Excellent condition. Calllurnoshed-equipped one-bedroom apt. 
Wanted· house male lor next year. Call Jean 2958 
IlOST/FOUND ] 

avaolable lor summer(5·15 to 8-15).
Addlloonat lloght onstructor (CFI) 288·8726 or 6821
Located in popular apt. complex andwanted lor Regoonal Flyong Club Part oncludes color lele., A-C. doshes & ulen· 
ltme. set your own rate Larry Martm. Need nders lo Columbus, OH., leaving The Observer
LOST GOLD MAN'S WEDDING BAN.D 

sots, ere. Closest apt. to club house and 
277-5006 AT THE ALBERT PICK ON FRIDAY Fro., Apnl24 Call Jell 1803
pool. Rent: $205-mo&utils. Deposit re­
TICKETS
APRIL 10. EXTREME SENTIMENTAL 1
quored. 277-7392 

WILL DO TYPING CALL 287-5162 VALUE. REWARDII1277-0456. Would like lo share Wolloamsburg-on­
apologizes for this
the·Lake apt. thru summer. Fireplace, 
. . .............. 

FOR RENT· UGLY DUCKLING RENT­pool, tennis & racquetball, good at­I need 3 (thai's three) graduatoon tick­VOTE FOR SUITER LOST. Tan-maroon reversoble jacket 
A-CAR FROM $7.95 A DAY AND 7 possobly at North Dinong Hall last week. 
EVERYBODY'S CUTER mosphere lor study and growth. ets. (Yes. folks, ors startmg a/ready.) II . . 
CENTS A MILE. PHONE 259-UGLY $150.00 mo. 256-6643. you can help me, call Scoop al1772 mconvemence.
SUITER FOR UMOC Mom woll dosown me. Call John at 3256. 
FOR RESERVATIONS. f 

Bookstore X 

'Thirsty 32' in action today 
By FRANK LaGROTIA · on only 3 of 10 attempts. But 
and SKIP DESJARDIN Bill Copeland was good for 8 of 
Sports Wn'ters 14 and that was enough to lead 
Head Over Heels to a three­
OK, OK, back to the old point win over Wrecked 'Em on drawing board. ''They'' said Lyons 11 yesterday. Mark Kelly Tripucka wasn't going to Meyer also had a good outing play Bookstore. "They" were with a 7 of 18 performance that wrong. paced Return of the Nutmeg­
gees to a 21-14 win over"They" also said Tracy Jack­Humor at the Expense ... Steve son was going to play Book­Fernandez hit 5 of 12 for the stor_e. "They" were wrong losers. 
agam. 
John Martin hit 7 of 9 for 
Oh, well ... Visual 0 ... , to pace his squad 
Meanwhile, back at the book­to a 21-10 win over Rockets in store, No. 3 WEBB's End Our Pockets. Three players had dumped The Atomic Drops by 3 points for the Rockets. 
6. Former All-Bookstore stand­Tripucka returned from out Bob Keenahan dropped 9 of sunny Honolulu, compiete with 14 shots for WEBB's crew while dark tan and University of Andy Cashman's 3 of 9 was Hawaii gym shorts, to lead the tops for The Atomic Drops. Reclassified Nads to a seven­
In other action, No. 7 T.B. point win over Atlanta. . . Tri­Exl?ress relied on the tough pucka hit all five of his field instde play of "Mean" Gene goal tries. He was matched in Smith to manhandle Fluid the scoring column by team­Force, 21-16. Smith hit 6 of 8, mate Ken "Midget" Stack, while teammate Jim Stone con­who was 5 of 7. Ralph Horgan nected on 7 of 15 field goal managed five points for the attempts. Rick Naylor's 5 of 12 losers. was tops for the losers. Nick Vehr hit 9 of 17 shots to 
In other action, former Irish pace The Assassins to a 21-11 eager Tim Healy had a few win over William Futt. . . in a problems from the field, hitting key game behind Stepan Cen­ter. John Krimm had six points on 24 attempts for the losers. 
With the Bookstore X field now down to 32 teams, comis­sioner Rob Simari continues to compliment everyone involved. 
''The crowds have been en­thusiastic, the games have been exciting and everyone on my staff is doing a super job," said the commissioner. He remind­ed that beginning with today' s Thirsty 32 games, officials will be used. The Bookstore Com­mission also awaits the arrival of tournament commissioner emeritus Tim 'Bone' Bourret, who is coming to South Bend expressly to help celebrate the tenth annual tournament. 
"Not only will Bone be here, but Fritz Hoefer and Vince Meconi, the fathers of Book­store, are also expected," re­vealed Simari. Many other Bookstore legends, including Dwight "Alex" Marcel and Rusty Lisch, will be in town Sunday for an all-star game to be played before the finals. A private reception will follow at the Senior Bar after Sunday's final game, which will be played behind the ACC. 
As coach 

Higgins' injury launches career 
Coachin~ came as an ac­
cident to J tm Higgins. No, that's not right. Coaching came because of an accident to Jim Higgins. Yeah, that's better. It is because of an accident 
suffered back in his profes­sional football playing days that Higgins is now Notre Dame's offensive line coach. 1969 was the fateful year. Higgins was in his sixth year of pro ball, his third as a member of the Miami Dolphins of the­old American Football League. 
He was blocking down-field for one of his running backs, when he collided with a Buffalo Bill defender. 
As Higgins hit the ground, his helmet came off. When the defender's foot met the side of Higgins' head, it was, for all intents and purposes, over. 
Jim Higgins' visions of grandeur were suddenly blurred. 
So were the rest of his 
VISIOn. 
When the brain hemorr­haging started, doctors said his 


playing days were over. 
Coaching then became the 
next best thing. 
''Coaching and t·eaching 
were opttons that I planned to 
look into after my pro career 
was over,'' said Higgins while 
walking off the practice field 
yesterday. "Of course, I 
hadn't intended for my career 
to end so soon.'' 
"But coaching is my way of staying around the same.'' 
As if he needed more. 
Football has been a part of Jim Hig~ins' life for more than half of hts 38 years. So has the city of Cincinnati, for that matter. 
Born in the Queen City, 
'Higgins' football career bloomed during his high school years in that southern Ohio town. 
It blossomed during his three years of college ball at Xavier University. 
It reached its peak during his six year pro career, when he played for the Cleveland Browns, the Edmonton Eskimos of the Canadian Football League, and the Dolphins. 
It changed directions fol­lowmg the acctdent. The first stop was Cincinnati's Purcell High School, where he spent four years as ao assistant. 
While in this position, Higgins got plenty of opportunities to watch his current boss at work, since Gerry Faust's Moeller team played in the same league as Purcell. 
In 1974, Higgins took over the duties of offensive line coach at Moeller, following the recommendation of Dick Barattieri, a good friend who was giving up the post to enter private business. 
Higgins stayed with Faust for the next seven years, until 
See HIGGINS, page 6 


Wednesday,_ April 22 -page 8 
MOOSE ROAST -A star-studded dias will be on hand for the testimonial dinner of Moose Krause, Notre Dame's retiring athletic director. Keith Jackson, the play-by-play voice of NCAA football for ABC-TV, heads the list of invitees for the May 2 dinner. 
Jackson will serve as master of ceremonies for the 
long-awaited event, the guest list of which features 
administrators, coaches, players, media members and a 
host of University, alumni and South Bend community 
representatives. 

Among the roasters honoring roastee Krause are former Air Force football coach Ben Martin, National Invitational Tournament executive director Pete Carlesimo, DePaul basketball grandfather Ray Meyer and former Irish grid mentor Ara Parseghian. 
. Also included are University president Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., University executive vice-president Rev. Edmund P. Joyce, C.S.C., and former University alumni association director Jim Cooney. 
On the media front, NBC Sports' play-by-play broadcaster Don Criqui and Chicago Sun-Times columnist Bill Gleason will join Jackson. Irish track All-American Aubrey Lewis, 1947 Heisman Trophy winner John Lujack and former Irish basketball captain Bill Hassett will represent Irish athletes at the Krause feat. 
The dinner is scheduled to follow the annual Blue-Gold 
game. A reception in the ACC's north dome at 6 p.m. will 
kick off the festivities followed by a 7:15p.m. dinner. For 
those who may be interested, a limited number of tickets 
(priced at $30 each) are available to the public and may be 
obtained by contacting Notre Dame ticket manager Steve 
Orsini. 

BLUE-GOLD IN LIVING COLOR -Sportschannel will broadcast the Blue-Gold game back to many Chicago area homes next weekend. The annual scrimmage will be produced by Metrosports, the independent sports network which handles the Notre Dame football replay network during the regular grid season. Harry Kalas, Notre Dame's basketball play-by-play man for Metrosports, will handle mike duties while former Notre Dame All-American George Connor will assume the color commentary chores. 
UNEQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYMENT -Leon Hart, an all-American end for the Irish and Heisman Trophy winner in 1949, has joined the ranks of commentators who are making their feelings known about the choice of Gerry Faust as the new Irish football coach. 
Asked about the selection of Faust, Hart (who now resides in Birmingham, Mich.) said over the weekend, "I think it's unfair." 
Unfair to whom? 

"Anybody that plays against Notre Dame." 
TV BEEN BERY BERY GOOD TO BASEBAll -Next Monday, April 27, the Irish baseball team is slated to entertain the Wildcats ofNorthwestern in a 1 p.m. twinbill. Although details have not been finalized, portions of one or both games will be broadcast to Chicago and Long island on a delayed basis by Cablevision. 
A representative Notre Dame broadcast crew, Dick Gonski and Jim Gibbons, will handle the mike duties. Gonski played on the Cartier diamond from 1962-64 and shares Notre Dame's career home run record of 12 with 1980 graduate Dan Voellinger. He also owns the team mark for round-trippers in a season, cracking 10 in 1964. Gibbons, who currently serves as director of special projects for the University, was also a freshman baseball coach for Notre Dame and coached in the Pittsburgh Pirates farm system. 
BEEP! BEEP! -Junior speedster Dan Szajko has already eclipsed Notre Dame's team record for stolen bases in a season. The 5-10 outfielder from South Bend has pilfered 11 bases while being gunned down only four times. The previous single season best had been ei~ht thefts by Frank _Fiascki and Dave Lazzeri, both dunng the 1976 campatgn. 
RUGBY SHORTS -It seems that the Associated Press found the rugby team's elephant walk in a Houston bar a little more amusing than did Dean of Students James Roemer. News of the team's exploits hit the nationaf news wire last Wednesday and appeared in many papers around the country. 
A follow-up story in which Roemer evaluated the penalty leveled against the club appeared over the weekend and Roemer even made the AP's quote-of-the-week list on Sunday morning, commenting that "The only person who didn't participate was on crutches." 
Others seem to be intent upon jumping on the already-full media bandwagon. Rugby Press magazine has been researching the story trying to promote rugby in America and wants to untarmsh rugby's reputation nationwide. 
Although nothing ·has been written as of yet, interviews which they have conducted indicate that they would like to place the blame largely on the Administration for not providing a faculty sponsor for the club while it was in Houston, although they do not condone the actions of the team members either. 
Too bad Walter Cronkite retired. 




