
Football fan letters -page 1 0 
' ' ' 


VOL. XVI, NO. 44 an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and saint mary's WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 28, 1981 

Nationwide 
Solidarity rebels in hour strike 
WARSAW, Poland (AP) 
Solidarity defiantly went ahead with 
plans for a one-hour, nationwide 
strike today over food shortages and 
other problems. The Polish Com­
munist Party's Central Committee 
and the Soviet-led Warsaw Pact 
were reported preparing separate 
meetings. 
Lech Walesa, leader of the inde­pendent labor movement, had been expected to hold talks with govern­ment officials last night, apparently in hopes of heading off the walkout. But union sources said he had not met any officials, and that the nationwide protest would go ahead as planned at noon. 
The government information agency Interpress said Polish troops were taking up positions in villages and towns and their initial reception wa~ "friendly." 
Communist Party officials said the 200-member Central Committee would meet just hours after the strike, the biggest since a four-hour, national walkout March 27. They said Gen. Wojciech Jaruzelski, the party chief, defense minister and prime minister, mi~t reshuffle the Cabinet or Communist Party Polit­buro. 
The Hungarian news agency MTI said the Warsaw Pact defense mini­sters would meet soon in Budapest, Hungary.MT! did not give a date but thert: have been fears ofSoviet inter­vention in Poland ever since Solidarity was created 14 months ago as the first union free of party control in the Soviet bloc. 
The Polish protest is expected to idle millions of workers, and has been condemned by the govern­ment and party as threatening Poland's "political, economic and defensive" foundations. It has also sparked protests from state-run uni­ons who vowed to work. 
Wildcat strikes have been simmering for weeks and continued Tuesday in Zyrardow, 20 miles west of Warsaw, where 12,000 workers occupied textile mills, in southeast­ern Tarnobrzeg, where 120,000 


RetJ. Edward Malloy, CSC Rev. David Tyson, CSC 

Rev. Wi/ liam Beauchamp, CSC Rev. Ernest Bartell, C~G 
Hesburgh announces 
administrative post,~ 
l'uur administrative appointments were announced yesterday by President Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C. Fr. Edward A. Malloy, C.S.C., associate professor of theology ha: 
oeen named associate provost designate by the Board of Trustees 
and will succeed the retiring Fr. Ferdinand Brown, C.S.C., June 1, 1982. 
Malloy, an ethicist, received his B.A. and M.A. in English from Notre Dame In 1963 and 1967, respectively, and his master's ir. theology from the university in 1969. He was ordained in 1970. Hi:. Ph.D. In Christian ethics was received In 1975 from Vanderbilt Unl versity, where he was a Smith Fellow from 1970 to 1972. Malloy, 40, joined Notre Dame's Theology faculty in 1974. 
Fr. David T. Tyson, C.S.C., assistant professor of management at Notre Dame, will be named to the newly created position of ex­ecutive assistant to Fr. Hesburgh, effective Jan. 15, 1982. 
Tyson, 33, received his undergraduate degree in sociology from Notre Dame in 1970 and his M.Th. degree in 1974. He was an admis­
See PRIESTS, page 4 
more struck heavy indnstiial plants, and in far western Zielona Gora where some 150,000 workers were offthe job. 
Walesa met with about 5,000 people at a rally in Zyrardow, where 
women textile workers were on 
strike for the 15th day over food 
shortages. "The strength of the uni­
on lies in unity of action, but this 
strike was unavoidable," he told the 
rally. 
In a surprisingly open report, Jn­terpress said troops were countering "indolence," "stupidity and license of bureaucrats," and halting "the scandalous wastage and favoritism." 
Interpress said the soldiers who were orderd:l into villages and towns Monday were beginning to study causes of a drop in meat supplies, the illegal trade in meat and to supervise procurement of supplies offuel. 
Lt. Col. Stefan Lukaszklewicz was quoted as saying that his squads had already solved problems in sugar distribution at one factory and reopened a shop which had been closed because the shopkeeper was ill. 
Western observers said that the reported success of the military squads would enhance the image of the army as an organization ap­parently capable of acting when the bureacracv C.ecame bogged down. 

Harold Wells, ;,u, wearing a bag over bts bead, Is led by an uni­dentified police official in New York following his extradition from Chicago to face charges ofraping a nun In aNew York co.-.­vent on Oct. 10 and carving 27 crosses on ber body. (APPhoto) 

Animal inventory 
System keeps mating straight 
ISIS handles about 80,000 transac­
By GALE TOLLIN 
tions a year, including 15,000 to
Associated Press 
18,000 donations, sales, trades or loans for breedingpurposes. 

APPLE VALLEY, Minn. (AP)-In a "We now have current Informa­cramped little office on the ground~ tion on about 50,000 live animals, ofthe Minnesota Zoological Garden. plus 30,000 to 40,000 of their computers keep track of vital statb­departe.t ancestors," Flesncss, 34, tics for 50,000 animals and birds on said. "We know how many of a three continents. The aim i~ species are in zoos, who has them, matchmakin~~;. their age and sex, their birth rates, 
why they die and who their close rela~ives are.

WEDNESDAY.. "It's not enough to simply know, for example, that the San Diego Zoo has 12 Siberian tigers," Flesness ex·




-Focus 
plained. "We have to know who they 

~--------·----·­are, how old they are and who's 
related to whom, so brothers and sis­ters and cousins aren't mated." 
Inbreeding lessens the chance of survival, builds genetic defects and eventually causes infertility. 
There are other reasons why biological information Is important. Some species' wild populations arc falling off because their natural habitat is being destroyed. In addi· tlon, national and lntcrnationa regulations now forbid takinJ animals out of the wild. Captiv• populations must therefore be sell sustaining and breed their own 
population. 
See ANIMALS, page 4 

This "animal dating game" is a . =:::i;;;:;;;;;;;;;;;;;;:::::;:;;;::;:::::::;;;;;:;;;:::::;;;;;;;;;:::=============== 
[>roject of ISIS, the International .ipecies Inventory System. Isis was the Egyptian goddess offertility; ISIS helps member zoos mate animals to avoid inbreeding and subsequent in­fertility. 
Each of 150 member institutions, 'ncluding 130 zoos in the United )tales, Canada, Europe, New Zealand, Puerto Rico and Colombia. pays a minimum of UOO yearly, or U for each animal or bird reported to ISIS. 
ISIS enables zoos to pool and share information. Nate Flesness sees the nonprofit research or­ganization as a middleman, combin­ing on a different scale the functions of the U.S. Census Bureau, the American Kennel Club and a genetics counselor. 
For each animal or bird reported .o ISIS, zoos list the age, sex, parents, present where-abouts, where born, where acquired, tattoo identifica­tion or tag number. 
Reports are updated for births or deaths or when animals are moved. 

Student ticket exchange features HPC meeting 
By CHUCK ZAMMIT 
News Staff 
Ticket policies, the student escort service and the Landon Turner Fund were the main topics of discussion during last night's Hall President's Council meeting. 
Ticket Manager Steve Orsini proposed a new policy for exchang­ing unwanted basketball tickets. The procedure, for students only, will be run by a student in each hall. 
Unwanted tickets are brought to hall representatives who remove the ticket from its book and validate it for use separate from its original booklet, contrary to standard Uni­versity procedure. 
Students who do not have tickets for a specific game can use one ofthe validated tickets for a specific game, but will have to present student identification to prevent scalping at more p i. opular games. 

It was also announced that the first 1,000 students will get in free to hockey games during the team's cur­rent season to demonstrate support for the team. 
All proceeds from the intrasquad basketball game Sunday, Nov. 15 in the ACC Arena will support the Spe­cial Olympics and the Neighbor­hood Study Help Program. 
The split package method for basketball games was discussed. Having "quality" games and "dud" games separate wa<s proposed (details of this year· s plan are 
See HPC, page S 

News Briefs 
Wednesday, October 28, 1981 -page 2 
I"" 

ll\· /be I J/Jsert'<'l" ami /be .·lssrJCilllerll'ress 
After a Campaign on increasingly racial lines in At­lanta, Ga., a "city too busy Hi hate," voters went to the polls yesterday for a mayoral runoff between former U.N. Ambassador Andrew 

The Drinking Game -Part Two Young and state Rep. Sidney Marcus. With temperatures in the mid­'iOs under dreary skies, voter turnout was described at midday as lighter than on Oct. 6, when Young, a 49-year-old black, and Marcus, 
In the article ofSeptember 2.:S. "The Drinking Game", 'i.~ and white, led a field of seven candidates seeking tv succeed attempted to approach the subject of student 
Mayor Maynard jackson. Jackson was elected in 197.3 as Atlanta's problem-drinking at this University from the simpk, ob­

John Macor

tlrst black mayor and was re-elected in 1977. He cannot seek a third 
consecutive term and endorsed Young. -AP 
Eli Lilly & Co., the Indianapolis-based pharmaceutical giant, announced plans yesterday for a S60 million biomedial laboratory for research ranging from the common cold to cancer. Earl B. Herr. president of Lilly Research Laboratories, said the expan­sion will mean .300 new jobs in the construction industry, 600 jobs for scientists and tecnicians and another 600 jobs in support in­dustries which provide products and services for Lilly employees. "We are pleased to point out that this undertaking is a visible show. of support for President Reagan's new economic program," Herr told reporters. "While this project has been on the drawing boards for some time, the research and development tax incentives involved in 
the administration's economic recovery program provided addi­
tional impetus for us to go forward at this time." -AP 
An amendment to eliminate Sl3'i million for con­tinued development of the Solvent Refined Coal I synthetic fuel plant at Newman in Daviess County was dekated yesterday by a 57-40 vote in the Senate. After defeating the amendment, offered by Sen. William Proxmire, 0-Wisc., the Senate also agreed to disap­prove an administration request to defer funding for the project. Proxmire had argued that the project's costs were excessive, and that government had no responsibility to help fund synthetic fuels 
through the demonstration stage. But Sen. Wendell Ford, D-Ky., who, with Sen. Walter D. H~ddleston, D-Ky., led the effort to retain the funds, said "If this project had been killed, I am afraid that some­where we would look back with 20-20 hindsight and realize we made a mistake. -AP 
The Indiana Court of Appeals ruled yesterday that the Public Service Commission doesn't have the legal authority to regulate any aspect ofthe cable television industry. The ruling came in a suit by Illinois-Indiana Cable Television Association, Inc., challenging the PSC's 1979 decision assuming control over cable television pole attachment rates and charges. Those are the rates that electric and telephone utilities charge cable TV companies to piggy-back their lines on the utility poles. The effect of the ruling means that the utilities can work out their own agreements with cable television companies on what to charge for pole attachments. The agreements are subject to guidelines in federal law. PSC chair­man Larry J. Wallace said he wasn't troubled by the appeals court's decision. "I've already written a letter to the FCC (Federal Com­munications Commission) to retain our certification of authority over cable," he said in an interview. -AP 
British actor Oliver Reed, often cast in mms as a swashbuckling rogue, soothed feelings yesterday in Montpelier, Vt., a ski town where he was arrested in a barroom fight scene that packed in fistfights, broken furniture and smashed bottles. Reed, 43, who has played in "The Three Muskeers," "Lion of the Desert" and "Oliver!" changed his plea from innocent to no contest and agreed to pay a $1,200 fine. Police had accused him of starting the brawl earlier this month in Stowe, a ski resort where Reed plans to build a vacation home. The actor also made a $1,000 donation to the Stowe 
Rescue Squad, an all-volunteer ambulance operation. "He likes the 
idea ofa nice gesture, something that will help provide some service 
to the community," said Reed's lawyer, After the plea agreement, 
prosecutors agreed to drop charges of unlawful mischief and at­
tempted simple assault, in exchange for a no contest plea to two 
counts ofsimple assault. In the incident, Reed was hauled out ofa bar 
by Stowe police after he allegedly challenged patrons to arm­
wrestling matches and fist tights, breaking funiture and bottles in the 
process. -AP 
Britain's Prince Andrew, the pilot of a Royal Navy helicopter involved in a dramatic sea rescue last month, has a new military assignment, Buckingham Palace announced yesterday. The 21-year-old prince, second of Queen Elizabeth Il's sons, has been assigned to a squadron of anti-submarine helicopters flying support for the cruiser HMS Invincible, the palace said. On Sept. 23 Andrew piloted a helicopter in the rescue ofa submariner who had been swept overboard off the Scottish coast. -AP 
Fog liftingby mid morning today and becoming sunny. High around 60. Clear and cool today. Low around 40. Mostly sunny and mild tomorrow. High in low to mid 60s. -AP jective perspective of a responsible student drinker. I tried to examinl.' the University's alcohol policies in Photography Editor light of its acknowledgement and prevention of al­coholism among srudents. In this examination. I tiJUnd Inside Wednesday these policies to he lacking in any direct and substantial 

method ofstopping rhe occurrance ofstudent drinking 
prohlcms. It appeared to me that the University was 
controlling student drinking in general as a cover-up of 
the real problem of student alcoholism. This I felt was 
an inadequate way to help the problem-drinkers on this 
campus, and I registered disgust and anxiety with the 
University's present and ineffective policies. 
This brings me to the point of the article at hand. 
Having presented a pure student outlook, I've felt it 
necessary to approach the alcohol abuse situation from 
a different, more University-oriented point of view. To 
do this, I went to Psychological Services and Peggy Cronin, the University's alcohol abuse counselor, to dis­cuss with her this threatening situation of student al­coholism. 
There is no question that there are numerous, serious 
alcohol abuses on this 

iiiiii9i!!!~ijij!iji;?, campus. Both students and ~iJtl!l administration will certainly agree to this. Mrs. Cronin es­timated that approximately 10 percent of the Notre Dame population has or will have alcohol related problems during their stay here. This means that one in ten here will have his or her 




BEEI
life adversely affected be­cause of continued alcohol abuse. It was conceded that the present University al­cohol policy is generally in­effective in preventing alcoholism in students. Treating student drinking as the ultimate source of stu­dent PROBLEM-drinking is a 

simplified approach to a complex problem. The sources of student problem-drinking are many-fold, and the availability ofalcoholic beverages is but one small part. 
Drinking problems here at NO arise from so many different factors that an enumeration is impossible. However, Peggy Cronin cited a number of very impor­tant factors which contribute to the alcohol abuse at this school such as strained male/female relationships, adjustment problems and drinking-problems brought in as freshmen. Possibly the most significant factor is that drunkenness among students is accepted as a way ofthe Notre Dame social life. We, as students, are either too embarrassed or too insensitive to say something to someone who makes drunkenness the central feature of his social life here. This is wrong. The University, too, appears to ignore the fact that so many of its students are continually "plastered" every weekend in lieu of anything else to do. 
What is needed is an attitude among students that drunkenness is not an acceptable part of the campus social scene. Students should be made aware ofthe dan­
f---The_Ohser~er_ 
Design Editor .................. Gr~gory Swiercz Design Assistants....................... Tim Neely Typesetter .......................................... Ron Joe News Editor................... :v!ary Agnes Carey Copy Editors .................. Maur~en O'Toole 
Steve Navarre Sports Copy Editor.................. Ed Konrady Typist. .. ............................Jeanine Hynes ~),stems Control ................... Bruce Oakley ND Day Editor......................... Paul McGinn SMC Day Editor............... Mary Kay Hogan Ad Design ................................... Fran & Bob Photographer ......................... Cheryl Ertel! Guest Appearances ............................... Max 
Shirley's n~w stuff 
Bruce's new stuff The comfy chair 

gers of alcohol abuse and thl.' role of alcohol as an in­tegral ingredient for the ND social life should be removed. THIS CAN NOT BE ACHIEVED THROL'GII AN 1:'\/Efl'ECTIVE CONTROL OVER STUDENT DRINK­ING. A change in the students' attitudes and social life is necessary. 
It is the attitude that a student has toward himselfand his drinking that may be the ultimate source of abuse problems. It is in this area of helping students adopt a responsible attitude towards alcohol that the University should place all its efforts. Rather than trying to check alcoholism among students with misdirected and illogi­cal policies, the administration should seek to remove alcohol from the center of the ND social scene. RULES CONTROLLING ITS USE ARE NOT THE ANSWER; 
PROVIDING ALTERNATE SOCIAL OUTLETS IS THE ANSWER. The recent cry from students for more so­cial space is but a small in­dication of the totally foreign social atmosphere present in this college. Work must be done to make the social scene one in which men and women at Notre Dame are comfortable and involved. Then, a de­emphasis on alcohol as the main social outlet most cer­tainly will reduce problem drinking. To close this subject ofal­cohol abuse here at Notre Dame, one final word on responsibility must be said. 

In the end, it is each and every student who is respon­sible to himself for his attitude toward drinking. Mrs. Cronin said, "There is always the choice to drink or not to drink. Ifstudents CHOOSE to drink and CHOOSE to occasionally get drunk, I have no problem with that. I think that is what happens in college." But if one no longer has this choice ofgetting drunk or not, there is a drinking problem. If one finds it difficult to choose to 
. 

stay totally sober at a party, there is a great potential for a drinking problem. We must be responsible to our­selves in choosing our drinking patterns. If we cannot make the choice to drink or not to drink, but instead, our drinking has already made the choice for us, there is a problem. Anyone who feels that he or she might have any problems with the choice to drink or not to drink should immediately contact Peggy Cronin or Wayne Pellegrini at Pysch Services for even an informal talk. Their presence, although not well publisized by the University, is a step in the right direction for dealing with alcoholism at Notre Dame. 
Basketball Shoe Sale! 
Atr'Basketball Shoes 
I

Inc udlng 
adidas • Converse 
F 


~Dynasty! 1./ O'* O 
• Nike • Puma 
°F 

Hurry • Sale ElK& NOV. 81 • ,._ 
ln.University Commons ~~~~\J
~-thtMWinpr$tn) ~d~ 
272-7565 l'! 
......... 11-t k12-UJ 0~ 

Editorial Board and Department Managers 
Editor-in-Chief..............................]ohn McGrath SMCNews Editor......................Cathy Domanico
Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
Executive NewsEditor.........................Kelli Flint Photo Editor........................................john Macor 
The Observer is an independent Editorials represent the opmton of a 
NewsEditor..................................Tim Vercelloui 
newspaper published by the students of the majority of the Editorial Board. Commen­
News Editor.............................David Rickabaugh Business Manager ......................... Rich Coppola
University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint taries, opinions and letters are the views of Sports Editor ..............................Michael Ortman Controller.............................................joe Mulflur
Mary's College. It does not necessarily their authors. Column space is available to Editorials Editor.......................Anthony Walton AdvertisingManager.......................Chris Owen
reflect the policies of the administration of all members of the community, and the free either institution. The news is reported as expression of varying opinions on campus, Features Editor .........................Gregory Swierc:z Production-Manager................... Michael Monk accurately and as objectively as possible. through letters, is encouraged. SMC Executive Editor...........Mary Agnes Carey Circulation Manager .............Tom MacLennan 
·-------------------------·------·· 
The Observer Wednesday, October 28, 1981 page 3 
Analysis 



Israel denies AWACS association 

JERUSALEM (AP) Israel 
remains opposed w U.S. sale of 
AWACS radar planes to Saudi Arabia, 
but ha.~ muted its criticism and taken 
steps to disclaim responsibility ifthe 
sale is blocked by the U.S. Congress. 
With a slim majority appart·ntly 
lined up against the deal, the Senate 
is to vote today on whether to ap­
prow the S8.S billion package, the 
largt·st arms deal in history. 
Israelis believe the AWACS radar planes and offensive equipment for the F-I S tighter planes, though in­tended to defend the Persian Gulf, ultimately will be turned against Is­cad. 
With President Reagan's prestige at stake, Israel has taken steps to dis­daim rcsponsibility if the Senate: vetoes the deal: 
-lnstrutions went out to the Is­raeli Embassy in Washington to stay out ofReagan's battle with Congress. 
-Prime Minister Menachem 
lkgi,n scrapped an idea to send a 
bipartisan parliamentary delegation 
to lobby against the package. 
-lkgin rarely volunteered 
puhlk comment on the deal in 
recent weeks, although he has readi­
ly reaffirmed his opposition when 
asked. 
Last Wt'l'k Hegin issut·d a mildly worded statement in response to reports attributed to Reagan that Begin wa:. kss opposed in private talks than in public to the arms package. Begin said ht· always stres~nl till: dangers to Israd in all his meeting~. 
Begin ~pokt·srnan Uri Porat said Tuesday brad was only a minor con­~ideration for Senate opponents and could not bt.· blamed fur a congn·s­sional vl'to. 
Israel al!'o wa.-; concl'fned that deti:at in the Senate could trigger a wave of anti-St·mitism in the United State~. Por:n said. 
Senate lkmocraric Whip Alan Cranston has accust•d the Rt"agan ad­ministration of "raising the spence of anti-Semitism" and of "seeking to make a scapegoat of Israel and its friends" by accusing Israel of interfering in policy decisions. 
"It was the administration itself which said that whoever votes against the deal is acting in Israel's interests and not for the good of America," said an editorial in the mass-circulation Maariv. 
"In this way the administration created a comfortable backgrond for propaganda against Israel and against the Jews, who will be presented -should the deal fail ­as having control over Congress and through it over American foreign policy," warnedMaariv. 
Some analysts say Israel is in a no­win situation: a defeat for Reagan 

ND 1enforcing policy' in campus driving 
By MARK BOENNIGHAUSEN 
News Stuff 
Saint Mary's students arc en­nmnrering difficulty driving onto the Notre Dame campus due to Notrt· Dame Security's enforcement of a long standing policy that only allows a limited number ofpeople to drive on campus. . 
Director of Security Glen Terry t•xplains that Saint Mary's students arc giving "contriwd," "phony" and "not legitimate" reasons in ordt'r to drive on t·ampus. To control tht' problem, Terry stated that the gate guards were givt·n instructions not to allow Saint Mary's students to drive on campus. When asked to spt·dfy what problems, if any, the Saint Mary's students were causing, Terry replied, "just problems." 
Saint Mary's students arc allowed ample parking space in most parking lots on campus, space that has been expanded since I')80 according to Terry. The only space not open to Saint Mary's students, noted Terry, is the lot behind the ROTC building. 
Terry commented that the action is only a reinforcement of a long standing policy. Notre Dame stu­dents arc restricted in their access to the Saint Mary's campus, Terry stated. Notre Dame students arc also not allo~ed to drive on campus ex­cept in "special ca!>es," noted Terry. Students should park in the lots, he explained, as Notrt· Dame is a "Pt'destrian campus." 
may strain U.S.-Israeli relations, while approval ofthe sale would put a powerful weapon in the hands of Saudi Arabia, a country Begin once called "the most extreme enemy of them all." 
Israel says Saudi Arabia is a leading objector to the Israeli-Egyptian peace accord and the largest finan­cial backer of the Palestine Libera­tion Organization, Israel's arch-enemy. 
Begin has said the AWACS -Air­borne Warning and Control Systems -would make Israel's defenses "transparent." Information scooped up by its 250-mile-range radar would be passed on to Arab frontline states, he has said. 
Reagan nears vote needed for AWACS 
WASHINGTON ( AP) -Pn:sidcnt Reagan switched three opponents and picked up five other vott·s from among uncommitted senators yes­terday in a major gain for his fight to rescue an $8. S billion Saudi arms sale from Senate defeat. 
The gains put the president within 
four votes of a come-from-behind 
victory for the sale of AWACS radar 
planes and F-I S jet fighter 
weaponry. 
The latest Associated Press count had <;2 senators dcdarnl against the sale. 46 announced or leaning in favor, and two undecided. 
Switching in favor ofthe sale were Sen. Roger W. Jepsen, R-Iowa, who had been a declared opponent, and Sens. Charles E. Grasslcy, R-lowa, and _). .James Exon, D-Neb., both of whom had been leaning against it. 
Five senators who had bccn un­committed l'amc out in tavor of the sale yestt•rday. They wert': Robert Dole, R-Kan., Harrison Schmitt, D­
N.M., Walter D. Huddleston, 0-Ky., David 1.. Boren, 0-0kla.. and Frank 
H. Murkowski, R-Aiaska. 
At the White House, President Reagan lobbied senators individual­ly for the second day in a row yester­day and his chiefspokesman said the president was "very encouraged" by the day's devdopments. 
Describing the administration as 
being "within a very few votes" of 
winning Senate approval, David R. 
Gergen said: "We definitely can win. 
The gap is closing. We're within a 
handful of votes." 
Gergen said the president was 
spending much of the day "in what 
we call quiet persuasion," meeting 
separately with at least nine senators 
in the study in his living quarters. 
"It's an intimate setting," Gergen 
said. "It's a nice, warm room." 
In addition, Reagan telephoned a 
handful ofsenators and plans to con­
tinue his meetings Wednesday. 
Despite his success with others, 
the president failed to sway at least 
five opponents -Sens. Paula Haw­
kins, R-Fia., Howell Heflin, D-Ala., 
William Roth, R-Oe!., Wendell Ford, 
0-Ky.,.and David F. Durenberger, R­
Minn. -as he continued his one-on­
one lobby blitz at the White House. 
Reagan plans to send Senate 
Majority Leader Howard Baker, R­
Tenn., a letter Wednesday outlining 
the arrangements between Saudi 
Arabia and the United States for the 
sale, Gergen said. The letter will not 
be classified, he added. 
Gergen said the arguments 
Reagan was using in his talks with 
senators were "along the lines that 
this sale is in the best interest of 
peace and the national security of 
the United States." 
Boren told the Senate: "I cannot in 
conscience ace<:pt even a part ofthc 
responsibility for the consequences 
ofa rejection of this sale. The poten­
tial damagt· to our country is too 
grave. The risk is too great." 
r NOTRE DAME vs. PENN STATE 
Trip leaves Frida~ November 20 and returns Sunday, 
November 22. SflO includes: Game ticket, bus fare and refreshments, two nights hotel at Holiday Inn with Team and Cheerleaders. 
or S85 without hotel 
Packages are available this Wednesday, Thursday and Friday at Student Activities Office, 1st -Floor LaFortune on a first-come first-served qasis. Only 25 spaces remain. 
Bring cash, check, or money order. To inquire call 7308. 
This young couple find a way to warm their bands as the weather turns colder. ( pboto by CiJery•l Ertelt) 

ATTENTION FRESHMEN Freshman Registers must be picked up 

The Observer Wednesday, October 28, 1981 -page 4 

continuedfrom page I 

sions counselor at the university for three years and served as assistant rector of Dillon Hall. He was awarded his doctorate in higher education administration from In­diana University in 1980, the same year he joined the College of Busi­ness Administration faculty. He is a member of the committee currently studying the University's priorities. 
E. William Beauchamp, C.S.C., has been named administrative assistant to Fr. Edmund P. Joyce, C.S.C., ex­ecutive vice president of the univer­sity. 
Beauchamp, 40, is completing study for the Holy Cross priesthood after receiving his M.Th. degree from Notre Dame last May. He also has an undergraduate degree in accounting ( 1964) and an M.B.A. in finance ( 1966) from the University of Detroit. He was graduated with honors from the Notre Dame Law School in 1975. He taught and was associate director of admissions at Alma College in Alma, Michigan., for six years and practiced law for two years. Ordained to the diaconate last September, he is scheduled to bt.· or­dained to the priesthood this spring. 
Fr. Ernest J. Bartell, C.S.C., a fel­
e. 
low, trustee and former faculty 
member of the university, has been 
appointed executive director of the 
Helen Kellogg Institute for Interna­
tional Studies at Notre Dame, ef­
fective immediately. 

Bartell, 49, received his undergraduate degree in 1953 from Notre Dame and earned master's degrees in economics from the Uni­versity of Chicago ( 1954) and in theology from Holy Cross College, Washington, D.C. (1961), and a 
• 
continuedfrom page I 

Many species would soon become extinct, Fiesness said, ifit weren't for captive animals. The only Mongolian horses known alive are some 3.:;0 in captivity. 
Flesness said ISIS and memhn zoos can play an important onserva· tion role. "Ifwild populations go un­der, zoo populations can replan· them," he said. "Eventually maybe they can release species back into the wild." 
Members get three routine 
''" .,. " 

\.· ·~ .:'~,~-;;air~ "" ·~ ~~7,~ 
..... ~. \ . ...r"" ,,...
'"' . ~.,,.,.
,.4 • ~ ->t '! 
4 
,.,. ¥ \ 
• • • Priests 

Ph.D. in economics from Princeton in 1966. He joined the Department of Economics at Notre Dame in 1966, and was director ofthe Center for the Study of Man in Contem­porary Society for three yeats. He assumed the presidency ofStonehill 
College, North Easton, Mass., in 1971, and six years later resigned to direct the fund for the Improvement of Postsecondary Education under the Department of Health, Educa­tion and Welfare. 
• Animals
• 
reports from ISIS. The inventon 

report shows the current holding~ of 
a zoo, aiding in the institution's own 

record-keeping. The acqUisitiOn­
release report sumarizes changes in 
a zoo's inventory. 
The twice-yearly species distribu­
tion report shows all known in­
dividuals ofevery mammal or bird. It 
is 3,250 pages long. Reptiles and am­
phibians were added to the inven­
tory this year. 
ISIS rents offices at the Minnesota Zoological Garden and buys com­puter time from the University of Minnesota. Its annual budget of Sl66,000 comes from m~:mber in­stitutions, the American Association of Zoological Parks and Aquarium~. the American Association of Zoo Veterinarians and various federal agencies and private foundations. 
Flesness, a University of Min­
nesota chemistry graduate and a 
Ph.D. candidate in evolutionary biol­
ogy, heads a staff offive. 
ISIS was started in 1 9 7 3 by Drs. 
U.S. Seal and Dale Makey, two physicians who used laboratory animals for research at the Min­neapolis Veterans Administration Hospital, but discovered there was little physiological data available on animal norms. 
Unlike medical doctors who treat only humans, veterinarians care for frogs and snakes, camels and lions and hundreds of other animals. Fles­ness said zoo veterinarians are great general practitioners but, in detect­ing illness, can't know the degree of deviation from normal if they don't know what's normal. 
The physiological data goal was 
sidetracked by the inventory 

project, but this year, ISIS began 
collecting blood chemistry and 
hematology data on healthy animals. 

Some I0,000 blood samples have 
been collected so far. 

Another ISIS function is to help monitor the breeding of chimpan­zees in the United States. In Flesness' opinion, chimps have become a "vital national resource" as hepatitis vaccine can be tested only on 
humans and chimpanzees, and chimps are barred from import. 
Because it takes lots of attention and about $20,000 to raise a chimp to age 2, Flesness said few animal breeders were interested in going into the business. Now 70 to 80 per­cent of the nation's chimps are bred and owned by federal agencies. 
The Interagency Primate Steering Committee ofthe National Institutes of Health contracts with ISIS to monitor the U.S. population ofchim­panzees. To assure research chimps are always available, ISIS makes sure plenty of male and female chimps are available for hreed!_rlg 
The Observer (USPS 598 920) 1s published Monday through Fnday and on home football Saturdays, excep) dunng exam and vacation penods. The Observer is published by tne students of Notre Dame and Saint Marys Col­lege. Subscnpt1ons may be purchased lor $25 per year ($15 per semester) by writing The Observer. P 0 Box 0 Notre Dame, lnd1ana 46556 
The Observer 1s a member of The Associated Press All reproduction nghts are reserved. 
Second class postage paid at Notre Dame. Indiana 46556. 


~------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~'-~----------~------~ 
DISCOVER THE CHOCOlATE MINT FLAVOR OF IRISH MOCHA MINT. 

...
-------------------------------------------~----­
The Observer Wednesday, October 28, 1981 page 5 
Brink's woman captive 


linked to BLA: FBI 
NEW YOlO\. (AI') -Ont: hundrt:d law ollkers stTking suspects in a bloody S1.6 million Brink's holdup raided a :\lississippi farmhous~: ycs­tt·nlay and arrt·stl'tl a woman alleged to han· linb with a ttTrorist or­ganization, ollkials said. 
:\leanwhik. a federal complaint 

dbdosl'tl hert· )TStcrday idt·rHitkd 
two otht:rs wanted in the investiga­
tion of tht· ( kt. 20 rohhny that 
claimed tlw lives of two polin· of­
fleers and a Brink's guard. 
l '.S. attornt·y .John .\!art in of New York said ht· will cmpand a grand jury to invcstigatt· a possihk r:Kkt·tnTing conspiraq hy mt·m­hers of tht· Weather llmkrground. Black Liberation Army. the Black Panthers and other radical groups. 
Cynthia Priscilla Boston, :B. was arn·stcd in <iallman, Miss., on a charge of conspiracy to commit armed hank robbery, spccitkally the Brink's holdup, according to author­ities in Mississippi, New York and Washington. 
John Kelly, special agent in charge of the fBI offlt:c in Jackson, Miss., said :\1iss Boston was arrested with­out incident. Sht· was arraigned hl'li>re a federal judge and hdd on S';OO.OOO bond pending a Nov. '; ht·aring on a defense request that tht: cast· be movnl here. 
The fl'tkral complaint, obtaint:d hcrt· tht· day after the rohbt:ry hut st·all'tl umil yestt:rtlay, asserted that :\1iss Boston "is rhc minister of infor­
• • • HPC 

continuedfrom page I 
locatl'd on thl' hack page ot today's Obsen,er), hut tht: rt:ason given for the prt:st:nt systt:m was to insure at­tentlanct: at all games. Tickets are mort· expt:nsivt: due to two t:xtra games this season and a per-game in­nt·ast: of11fty ct:nts. 
It was also reported that .II! I0,000 was rect:ntly recl'ivt:tl from the trus­tt:es spt:dlkally for party rooms and furniturt: in ND rt:sidence halls. 
Tht: campus escort service schetluk will ht: changnl in order to involve mort: dorms and to shorten tht: timl' each dorm will providt: this servit't:. Tht: times ti>r this st:rvit'e art: from 7 p.m. to midnight. Days can be chosen and art: not assigned. The t:scort st:rvict:'s dirt:ctor nott·tl that all women's rt:sidenct: hall councils vil'w tht· servict: as valuahk. 
Tht: prohkm of getting cars on campus wa.~ also tlt:alt with. Clairt: 
Dr. Gordon represents GREboard 
Dr. Robert E. (;ordon, vice prt:~J­dt·nt ti>r Advanct'd Studies of Biol­ogy at thl· l'nivnsity of Notre Danlt', will rcprt·st·nt the Council of (;raduatc Schools on thl' (iraduatt' Rt'l'ord Examinations Board t(>r a four yl'ar term. 
The Council of (rraduatt· Schools int:ludes soml· ~60 academic institu­tions olkring graduatt· work. Among thl' rcsponsihilitil's of the <JRE Board art: dt·sign and administration of thl' <;raduatl' Rt:cord Examina­tions Program. dt:vdoping testing programs in fordgn languages and English a.' a ti>rdgn language and t.•x­
lensive research of graduate educa­tion. 
matin li>r the Republic of Nt:w Africa, a tt:rrorist organization." 
In addition to :\1iss Boston, the complaint named ti>r the t1rst time two otht:rs wantnl in connt·ction with tht: investigation. They were idcntil1cd as William Johnson, also known as Balil Sunni-Ali and said to ht· Miss Uoston's common-law hus­band. and Donald Wccms, an cs­
capt'l' from a New .Jcr.~cr prison. Both w t'rt· suspccH·d of bl'ing Bl.A memht·rs. 
Asshtant ll.S. Allorncr Stacey :\loritz of New York said ,\!iss Boston uses a varit'ty of African namt:s, had links to the Black Liberation Army and Republic of New Africa and that ht:r common-law husband is a mcm­bt:r of tht· New Africa group. 
Thus far, ti>ur people have bt:cn spt:cifically charged with the slaying of a Brink's guard at tht: st:ne of tht: rohht:ry, in Nanuet, N.Y., and with killing two polict· oftkt:rs in a shootout in nt:arby Nyack. 
Authoritil's had prt:viously said tht:y wt·rt: looking for at least four 

mort'  suspt·cts  in  tht'  ht'ist  anti  
shootout.  
Arrt:sted  immt·diatdy  after  the  
Stepht:n W. Hawking discussed thl' 


incident were thrt:t: memht:rs of tht: Weather llndt:rground -Kath~:rint: Boudin, .Judith A. Clark and David _1. Gilht·rt -and Samud Brown, who officials said had a long record hut no known affiliation with radical groups. 


Hypnotist Tom Deluca 


to perform at AAF 
Hypnotist Tom Dduca will per­from tht: audience. form Thursday night, H:OO p.m., at Dduca rt:ct'ived a B.A. in Com­Saint Mary's Angela Athll'tic facility. munication and Psychology from 
The paformance is comprised of the University of Miami, Coral two shows. The 11rst st:gment tlt:als Gables, and a mastt:r's degret: from with thl' pht:nomenon of t:xtt:ntled Sangamon State University, sensory perception betwl't:n Deluca Springfidd, Illinois. l-It: ha.~ worked and mt:rnht:rs of thl' audience. Tht: as a hypnotherapist for over four second part consists of various years, trt:ating psychosomatic disor­levds of hypnosis with voluntt:ers ders. 
I!.EE II 1\EIS 

Tommorow!! 

A musical extravaganza in Stepan Center. 
November 20. 
Tickets are $5 November 6. 



Physics lecture 
Hawking gives audience 'a bang' 
World-renowned Physicist Dr. 

"Big Bang Tht:ory," the naturt: of' 
"black holt's" and other topics 
t:oncerning the expansion and con­
traction oftht: universe to a capacity 
crowd at tht: Mt:nwrial Library 
Auditorium last night. 
Hawking's kcture, "Tht: Limits of Space and Timt:," indudt:d a histori­cal analysis of concepts of space and 

, 

,. " 
f • 
' 
• 
• ,.1(1 
'h 

• "' 
~ 

hal'e a losing football season at Notre Dame. (pboto b)• Cberyl Ertelt) 
Many alumni share tbe opinion ofjim Blaha '80 that it is easier to swallow a goldfish tban to 
time from Ptolemy to Einstein. rdativity. including his discovery 
Hawking prt:dicts that tht: next that black holt's consist of radiated great accomplishmt:nt in physics particles of em:rgy. have won him a will bt: the "grand unitkation of trt:mt·ndous rt:putation as a genius everything" including the tht:ory of in his fidd. In 197H, he recdve~ the rdativity, quantum mt:chanics and Albt:rt Einstdn Award, tht: highest other aspl'cts of theoretical physics. award in tht: United States for 
Although Hawking was present on theort:tical physics. 
stage, his speech was ddivercd hy Dr. Hawking wa.~ a guest of tht· 
Nicolus \X'arnt:r. Provost's Lecturt: Series, sponsort·d 
Hawking is a proft:ssor of matht:-at Notre Dame to mark tht· United 
matics at Camhridgt: University in Nations proclamation of 19H I as thl' 
England. His grt:at contributions in llllt:rnational Year of Disabled Pt'f· 
lht: art:as of gravitation anti sons. 
f"'"'"'"'"'"'"'"'"'"'"'"''............................................, 


I Ihe Qbserwr_ i 
~ MANDATORY MEETING ~ ~ Observer news reporters. ' ~Wed., 6:30pm in the ~ ~ Observer office, 3rd ' 
~floor LaFortune. ~ l .............................................................................................~ -···-~ '• ~~~ 
Cat hoi ic Inquiry~ Series 
I 90 minutes of your time li 
. ~ 

.~ could change it your perspective on Catholicism. 
Wednesday 7-8=30pm 
j 
Oct. 28, Nov. 4, Nov. 11, Nov. 18, Dec. 2 

Hayes-Healy Auditorium 



October 28 

"Why Tell a Priest?" -the dilemma of Confession Fr. James Burtchaell, CSC 
Padgt:tt, senatt' mt:mber in charge or security, suggestt:d making fifteen minute pa.~ses available. 
Tht: Landon Turner Fund was the last topic prest:ntt:d at tht: mt:t:ting. Somt: suggt:stions for more par­ticipation were for each dorm to contribute a check to the fund or getting the food salt's from t:ach 

uorm to contribute I 0 pt:rcent ofits sales for one night to the fund. 
Bobby Knight will be in South Bt:nd to raise money for the Turner Fund Nov. 9 at the Morris Civic Auditorium. Tickt:ts are available through Tbe Obsen•er and the price of each ticket for stutlt:nts is SS.OO. 
Wednesday, October 28, 1981 -page 6





Sports Brie/§ 
by The Uhserz,er and The A_rroliated Prer.r 
Three lawyersfrom New York City will be panelists for a Sports and t Entertainment Law Forum to be held at Notre Dame's Center for Continuing Education next Friday (Nov. 6) The morning session will run from 10 a.m. to 12 noon, and the afternoon session will begin at 2 p.m. and conclude at 4 p.m. The three panelists will be Seymour Peyser, Richard Zahnd and Sidney Bluming, all ofwhom are specialists in this expanding field oflaw. Peyser has served as Vice­President of ;;.nd General Counsel to United Artists Corporation. ZahncJ is General Counsel to Madison Square Garden Corporation, the parent company that owns and operates the New York Knicks 
and Rangers. Bluming once represented the New York Yankees. 
The Observer 

The Sailing Club of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's will meet this evening at 6:30 p.m. at the boathouse on Saint Joseph's Lake. All are welcome. -The Observer 
The Notre Dame lacrosse team will hold a 
short, but manditory meeting for those wishing to play varsity lacrosse today at 3:30p.m. in the ACC auditorium. -The Observer 
Baseball Coach Larry Gallo will be the guest 
speaker at tonight's meeting of the Fellowship ofChristian Athletes. The presentation is scheduled for the Badin Hall Chapel at 8:30p.m. FCA promotes Christian fellowship among athletes and coaches in hopes that this will be shared with the whole community. All are invited. -The Observer ' 
"Student Appreciation Night" is scheduled 
for this Friday as the Notre Dame hockey team plays its first ever home game in the CCHA. The first 1,000 students presenting Notre Dame or Saint Mary's ID cards will be admitted FREE! The game will be the first ofa two game series with two-time defending champion l:'Jorthcrn Michigan and begins at~ p.m. Gates open at 7 p.m. -The Observer 
Notre Dame's scuba diving club will hold a 
meeting for all those interested at 8:00 tonight in the Lafortune 
Little Theater. -The Observer 

The Irish volleyball team hopes to improve its 13­18 record this evening when Notre Dame plays host to Goshen Col­lege. The match is scheduled for 7 p.m. in the ACC Pit. -The Observer 
The Season iS OVer for Notre Dame's field hockey team, as it lost to Ball State, 7-1 last night on Cartier Field, ending the year with an 11-10 record. Clare Henry tallied the only goal for the Irish. -The Observer 
Onward to Valparaiso Notre Dame's soccer team will go, as they face the Crusaders today. The Irish record stands at 14-3-2 after losing a hard-fought battle to Indiana last Sunday 2-0. This Sunday Notre Dame will play Wright State at Cartier Field start· ing at 2:00. -The Observer 
An organizational meetingwill be held for the Notre Dame rugby club tommorrow night at 7:30 in the Lafortune ballroom. All members must attend. ~ The Observer 
Saint Mary's volleyball team upped its season record to 10-8 yesterday with a convincing win at Tri-State. The Belles knocked offtheir hosts in straight sets 15-10, 15-8, 15-13. Coach Erin Murphy was quite pleased with the performance on freshman Ann Boutton who led the Belles with 40 percent kills on spiking. Sopho­more Loret Haney turned in a fine performance at the service line while captain Terri Walters helped out with her on-the-court leader­ship. Over fall break, the Belles competed in the Illinois Benedictine Invitational and finished third among six teams. Saint Mary's defeated Thornton Communittee Collge, Illinois College and Clarke College, and lost to eventual champion Illinois Benedictine and runner-up Elmhurst. Tonight the team will be at Purdue Calumet to face the same team that defeated the Belles earlier this season at the Angela Athletic Facility. Tonight's match carries added importance since it will be a district game, crucial for Saint Mary's to advance to the state tournament. -The Observer 
• • . Tickets 
continuedfrom page 12 
the University of Notre Dame. 
All seats arc assigned in the stu­dent section, but are NOT preas­signed by the Ticket Office. If you wish to sit with a classmate. you must present your IDs and money together for adjacent seating. No student may present more than four IDs. 
Married students should report 

to the ticket windows with their 
respective class and on the 
scheduled day. When picking their 
tickets, they are asked to present 
evidence oftheir marital status. 
Saint Mary's Students 

All classes should pick up lottery forms at their residence hall's desk this week. Completed forms must be returned to the Saint Mary's Stu­dent Activities Office no later than Friday (Oct. 30! ). List of lottery winners will be posted in the 
residence halls and in the dining hall on Monday (Nov. 3). Lottery winners then must bring a check for $18 to the Student Activities office no later than Friday (Nov. 6). 
-The Observer 
Buy 
Observer 
Clas#fieds 

Classifieds  The Observer will accept classifieds Mon­day through Friday, 10 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. However, classifieds to appear in the next issue must be received by 3 p.m. the business day prior to insertion. All classifieds must be prepaid, either in person or through the r1ail.  
Need-2 GA. TECH GA's. Will trade 2 NAVY GA'sorpayCASH. ALEX--x693t~__NO_T_IC_Es___..JI ll.__FO_R_R_EN_T____. Will trade any student tix, or pay$ for one or two GEORGIA TECH GA's. Call Sue USED BOOK SHOP. HOURS WED . 3731Furn1shed House .. N1ce area . .Walk toSAT. SUN. 9-7. CASPERSON, 1303 ND.. Jim 3234 BUCHANAN AD , NILES. BIG BUCKS!!! I need two GA's tor NAVY and/or GA TECH. PLEASE HELP!!!Furnished House..N1ce ar~a . .Walk toOVERSEAS JOBS -Summer/year CALL FRANK 8820. ND.. Jim3234round. Europe, S.Amer., Australia, As1a. All fields. $500-$1200 monthly. Sightsee­Need 3 Navy tix tor folks call Ernie at 3852 ROOMMATE WANTED to share a COM­ing. Free into. Write IJC, Box 52-IN-4, atter 10pm. PLETELY furnished apt. close to ND ON­Corona Del Mar. CA 92625. LY $1 05 I month plus elec. -call Dave at BLOOD AND GORE I283-t169 after 11:00 p.m. AMERICAN-LEBANESE CLUB It 1don't get 2 GA's tor any home game. MEETING HAS BEEN MOVED TO THUR Will pay big bread. KEVIN 82t4UGLY DUCKLING RENT A CAR. FROMt0/29/81 AT 7:30 USUAL LOCATION. A $7.95 A DAY & WEEKEND SPECiitLSMOVIE WILL BE SHOWN BAING DUES NEED several GA or student tix tor NavyAVAILABLE. CALL 259-8459. PLEASE. Call Mary 41-4972 FEMALE ROOMMATE WANTED toAITENTION ALL BUFFALO CLUB FOR SALE CHEAP: 2 NAVY G A'S CALL share smell, furnished home withMEMBERS SANDYAT614t same. Ten minutes from NO. $130 perNavy Pregame Party Farley Hall base­month Includes ell utilities. Cell 289­ment. BEEF on WECK will be served. All Need many Navy GA tickets. $$$ Call9117 •Iter 12:30 p.m.students. alumm. family and friends are Mark at 272-8454 welcome. MALE ROOMMATE NEEDED FOR FUR­NAVY NAVY NAVY G.A.'S NEEDED.NISHED APARTMENT. $1t0/MONTH WILLING TO PAY TOP DOLLAR.UTILITIES PAID. 287-5469. PLEASE CALL 234-0418. Are you from Jersey? I'm from Jersey andLOST/FOUND I need 2 Navy GA's. Willing to pay$$. Call Kate4419.LwANTED DESPERATE FOR 2 OR 4 NAVY GA FOUND: Camera tripod. 1dent1ty & claim. TICKETS. CALL MIKE AT 1435. call 6614 WANTED GAs FOR ANY HOME NEED 1 STUDENT NAVY TICKET. CALL GAMES. CALL PAUL 8509 I LOST MY INTERNATIONAL DRIVER MARY ELLEN AT 7872. LICENSE. IT'S A BOOKLET WITH FIVE TYPING WANTED. Fast, Accurate. Close DIFFERENT LANGUAGES, MY Need 2 GAs tor Navy call Brian 288-31 08 and Reasonable. 272-4105 or 272-4272. PICTURE AND MY NAME: VISOOT PHONGSATHORN. IF YOU FIND IT. Need NAVY GA Tickets. Call t210.HELP!!! I desperately need a r~de to PLEASE CALL 289-21t9. Madison WI.( Mad City) tor this upcoming Tickets tor Sale 2 student navy and 2 stu­halloween weekend. Please call 3059 it LOST: CANON AE-1 CAMERA DURING you are g01ng. dent ga. Tech. Best Offer 272 6454 USC WEEKEND. IF FOUND, PLEASE CALL2968. REWARD!! IN DESPERATE NEED OF RIDE TO . WILL TRADE2NAVYGA'SFOA2PENN ST. GA'S. IF INTERESTED, CALL 3tt9.CLEVELAND THIS WEEKEND (OCT31 ).LOST before break: Brown Tweed Cap; NEED TO WATCH A REAL FOOTBALL Patch on the inside with ·oonegal NEED 3 GA's tor GEORGIA TECH... veryGAMEl IF CAN HELP, CALL MIKE 6829! Tweed" on it. Please call Kevin at3737. desperate!! call Larry 1809 whoever found a calculator and EPHYS I need 2 Navy GA tiCkets. Call 232-9652. book (streetman) in room 212 cushing PLEASE call mike at 8598. substantial LET'S TALK TICKETS!!!need 3 Navy GA reward!!!!! [ioR SALE tickets:call Mike at 1130 To the person who accidentally mistook DESPEAATEL Y NEEDED: 2 g.a. s tor the my wallet tor his in the men's locke room of NAVY game. Please call Kala at 8160. the Rockne Memorial,! would be eternally DISCOUNT STEREO EQUIPMENT--Top grateful it you would return it. I know that quality, most maJOr brands. The best DESPERATELY NEED 4 NAVY GAs the extra money is very useful but please values around. Call Mike x1 087 AND 5 NAVY STUDENT TIX. PLEASE understand that I wtll not have another CALL 15960R 1649. dollar till Christmas break. It you can't find 2 student tix, side by side. tor Navy & Ga. il in your heart to return the money. I Tech. CALL289-4180 WE NEED Navy GA's !!!!!! Call Mike at would appreciate it it you would return my 1175 or Chr1s at 1178. I.D. so at least I'll be able to eat-----Thank you. x1160 FOR SALE: TWO NAVY GA'S. CALL 3340.TICKETSLOST: A Gold watch, · Bucherer." around DON'T SELL YOUR GEORGIA TECH Madeleva Monday Oct. 26. It has GREAT TICKET!!! Donate it to send a Logan child sentimental value. It found, PLEASE call Penn St. ticket wanted please call Donna to the game. Tickets will be collected in Katie at 5416 at6771 the dining halls during dinner next week.  NEEDTWONAVYGA'SCALL 1730 I NEED 2 GA NAVY TICKETS. CALL LEADA, 277-6489. Need 1 pa1r of Georgia Tech G.A.'s. Call Paul at 232-9t50 between 5:30 and 7:30pm. WAIT!!!II I NEED TWO GEORGIA TECH TICKETS. WILL PAY TOP DOLLAR. CALL BILL 7289. OH NO. My supply of STROH'S will be stopped it I don't find 2 Navy GA'S. CALL LORI5168 Unless I get ONE GA. TECH ticket, 6000 wild Llamas will be sacrificed in Bolivia. It you can prevent this, call Save the Llamas Society at 8627 or 8623. Beautiful girl thinking of transferring to N.D. Help convince her. Give her your Navy ticket. Call 1516. will trade combined NAVY GA. TECH st. TIX tor PENN ST TIX Phil 233-3411 it you have some ga tech tickets to sell . sell them to me call cody at 1143 Need two Navy GA tickets. Call Paul at 277-0692 Need 2or4 GA tix tor Navy. Call 4t-4436. I'LL TRADE 2 NAVY GAs FOR 2 GEOR­GIA TECH GAs. I ALSO NEED TWO MORE G. TECH GAs! DAVE t809 ·FOR SALE 1 PR NAVY STUD TIX CALL B4 8 PM 277-6187 TWO NOTRE DAME ALUMNI ARE TRYING TO REUNITE THEIR FAMILY AT THE PARENTS' DAY NAVY GAME. WE NEED MANY TICKETS!! CALL JOHN (1697) Need Navy GA and student tix. Call 2197. Will pay HIGH SCHOOL DOLLARS tor 2 Navy GA's Call John 3527 Dead grandparents need 2 navy GA's Call John 232-0921 PERSONALS] DON'T MAKE A RIGHT Two wrongs DON'T MAKE A RIGHT EXPERIENCED TYPIST-Resumes $12; term papers/thesis $25; misc. 75 cents page or ask tor quote. 233-5861 after 6 p.m.  UNITED WAY TO THE MIGHTY WARRIOR AND UNITED WAY CHAMPION BOXER XERXES: Happy UNITED WAY Belated Birthday! WE apolog1ze tor be~ng GIVE YOUR FAIR SHARE late but you know how the mail is these NOV.1-8. days--it got all backed up between the Persian War and the Homeric Age. Have THANKS TO YOU IT WORKS FOR ALL you checked the children? By the way. OFUS we're lost at Walsh--will you come get GIVE TO UNITED WAY us???? With love. THE SIREN AND FAIR SHARE: $2.00 OR MORE HELEN. SEE YOUR SECTION LEADER HALLOWEEN DANCE AT LOGAN CEN­CASH IN CASHIN!!! TERII!! JABJEB!!! Saturday. Oct. 31 7:30-10 pm. DUMP SIMON!!! LIVE BAND! DRESS UP! EVERYONE'S INVITED. ····················•··· Of Mice and Men To SuperFAEAK Kurt 1n the ITh t:15 COLUMBUS, OHIO is where I am headed swim class: on October 30. It you want to see the GET LOST! Buckeyes or just visit the bars on High From ALL the girls in the class. street that weekend call MONICA at 4t­5802. I have room for three nders and I'll CHARLOTTE WOLF: IF F. LEE BAILEY be returning to Soutb Bend around 10 WAS MEANT TO BE A KEYBOARD p.m. November 1. PLAYER, HE WOULD NOT HAVE GOT­TEN 716 ON HIS LSATs. KEITH EMER­SON CAN RELAX HAPPY BIRTHDAY BAG! Today is one choice day because it is Kerns and Oreads: smoke latakia and KATHY MILLER'S birthday. Hope you experience kef in Nada have a great day. Don't bag out on us tonight and we'll have you feeling prime in TO THE GIRLS WHO CALLED SECOND no time!! FLOOR PANGBORN MONDAY NIGHT, Love, all of us bags from 3rd McCandless It you think we're tunny on the phone, g1ve last year us a call back and find out what we're like in person! We'd really like to meet you! JOE C AND HIS PAL XAVIER B. (B ISRyan---Why do people keep runmng into FOABIG1)your rear end? I hear you've had to buy cloth from some KTS MEMO FROM. Parliamentarian AT­woman to protect the anatomy there! TN: Purge Cha~rman RE: 1981 Purge Season Hi Bruce! Please consult the KTS Constitution. Art. I, Sec.5, regard~ng the illegality ot the likewise, I'm sure. following purge methods. 1) Naval and aenal attacks. What does M1ke 0. do while listening to 2) Tactile nuclear weapons. the Best of Bread. side 2? 3) Biological warfare . Also read Sec. 6. concerning the recy­He loses it. cling of purge victims into expressway off­ramps.Don't Make a Right! Dear Marg, Con. Bon. Dav1d and allDon't Make a Right.. D.T..Sue F. and gang. Hugs and kisses from Mex1co. Love andDON'T MAKE A RIGHT!!! miss you all. • Leslie QUOTE OF THE WEEK: "WHO SLEPT Dear Krt, m1ss1ng you from Mex1co. HugsON TOP?" and Kisses, Maura. Winning No. 381037 Call UBC to claim 2 We are mean, lean ultimate maChines. C.1Ga Tech tickets. 10-21-81 the NO-MEXICO CITY ult1mate tr~sbee team RULED.SINGING CHARLIE TELEGRAMS needs experienced singers, Call between 9-3 at There once was a g1rl tram Purdue. 234-0959 Who knew exactly what she wanted to do. VEMILLION only held her hand. A DRUMMER IS DESPEATELY So she said. ·See ·ya DAN". NEEDED TO PLAY AT THE Irs back to the FrUit Files tor you!!! CHRISTMAN NAZZ. CALL DAN 8332 TO THE STUDLY FLORIDIAN J. I.. MIKE FRAWLEY is. a swell, down-to­Please use last names in your next ads. earth guy who wants to begin a meaning­You're g1v1ng me a bad name! ful relationship this Friday night. Another VIVIAN (from Lew1s). Interested ladies who like to bake cookies P.S. I'm glad your exper~ence was truly call t812. ennchtng.  

The Observer -Sports Wednesday, October 28, 1981 -page 7 

the string art design by sophomore Ivw1 Rivas. See related story at right. 
Sophomore designs 
e 


strtng-art mascot 
By MARC RAMIREZ 
Sports Writer 
If you ncwr thought that you 
would see string art in the Athletic 
and Convocation Center, look again. 
Along with the trophies, plaques 
and memorable artifacts that adorn 
the second floor walls of the ACC, 
there is one Notre Dame student's 
creation on display as well. It is a five-by-six foot string-art design of the Notre Dame leprechaun in full color valued at !400. 
The string-art design was created by ND sophomore Ivan Rivas, a chemical engineering major and a resident of Fisher Hall. Rivas has been involved with this art form since he was in seventh grade, and had a simple motive for selecting the Fighting Irish symbol as ont• of his designs. "I made it because I came to Notre Dame," Rivas says. "I decided that whatever college I went to, I would make a string art design ofthe school mascot." 
Rivas became interested in string art on his own "because it was.dif­ferent. I can design anything," he says. "I only nn·d a picture, but it takes a long time because there's a lot ofplanning involved." 
He has made over 60 string art designs, including a similar rcprcst·ntation of the mascot of his high school in Hempstead, N. Y. The leprechaun design took three weeks to make, and Rivas used his Christmas vacation freshman year to work on it. "It was murder," Rivas jokes. 
Rivas is allowing the design to be put on display "for the student body. Iwanted people to sec and enjoy it." 
After NY Marathon 

Salazar calls TAC 'hypocrites' 
INDIANAPOI.JS (AP) · Alberto 

control over the athletes. They have 
policy il). order to enable athletes toSalazar, winner of the New York no right to. They're just a bunch of retain amateur standing is to collectMarathon, says officials of The Ath­hypocrites and thieves." the prize money for deposit into aldcs Congress arc "a bunch of TAC spokesman Pete Cava said at trust fund, only to be withdrawn forthicvt·s and hypocrites" for their the amateur athletic organization's training expenses.
stand on tlnancia! payments for run­
headquarters here that "wc'rt· not 
nt·rs. 
sure why he said those things or
TAC is the nation's track and Held "It pretty much opens up track
what his problems arc."
governing body. and field," Cava said of the new
Current policy calls for athletes 

"Why should TAC have control policy, which still has to be ap­
not to accept prize money from 
over my money?" Salazar sail.: Mon­proved at the International Amateur
professional races, like those
day after winning Sunday's New Athletic Federation's meeting at 
sponsored by the ·-Association of
York Marathon. "They want to be Rome, Dec. 12-1 3. 
Road Racing Athletes. 
like our agt•nts. They want to have 
Cava said TAC's compromise 

"We feel it is a step in the right direction," Cava said. "Now if this makes us thieves and hypocrites, I don't know. We're optimistic on the
• • • Itetns 
IAAF's approving this.' 
Salazar also said, "TAC knows it
The Observer-Landon Turner
continuedfrom page I 2 
can't stop under-the-table payments (to athletes). They try to present an 
Fund. Tickets for the dinner are SSO 
each (which includes the 8: I 5 
by any kicker in Naval history. 
image of a pure athlete, which is
program), while adult tickets for
A BOWL GAME -The winner of Bobby Knight's talk are S I 0 for hypocritical."
Saturday's game will be awarded the 
general admission and SS for stu­
Waterford Bowl, a trophy donated in dents. "Every year we hear stories of
memory of the late Don Miller, one Digger Phelps is opening his under-the-table payments, but
of the Four Horsemen, and Rip Mil­team's practice to the public on nobody ever comes up with definite ·
ler, l(>rmcr coach at Navy who Saturday bc:forc the Navy game from proof," Cava said. "Unless you haveplayed for the Irish in 1922, '23 and 9:30 to II :30. At the practice, dona­hard evidence, there is nothing you
'24. The trophy was started by the tions for The Observer-Landon can do ... I think (Salazar's) remarks
Waterford Society of Cleveland and Turner Fund will be accepted. arc totally uncalled for."
was first presented in 1976. After Saturday's dash, the Bowl will only be awarded when the two teams meet in Cleveland, where they have waged I I baules in the all-time 
Attention APPLE II Owners! 
series. 
DISC CALlBRATION AND
TUNE IN NEXT WEEK-ABC-TV has announced that it will beam the HEAD CLEANING SPECIAL Penn Statt·-Miami game next weekend. With both Piu and 
Regularly Priced OFF
Alabama remaining on the Nittany 
at $40 now, _____ 17L2~ only
Lions' schedule, it looks as if the al­phabet network will scrap the lrish­Limifld tim1 only $20 Pt·nn State dash in favor of one of those two games. However, with the Army-Navy game moved to Decem­ber c; and Miumi with another ap­pearance left, the Notre Dame-Miami game from the Orange Bowl may be a viable possibility on 
November 28 (over Thanksgiving break). TURNER TRIBUTES -The In­
Let us perfomilheM atQustmentsa 
diana University Varsity Club and 
Mech11nical: • Disk Speed Adjustment • Read Write Adjustment
Alumni Association, in conjunction with many banks and service dubs 
• Collet Hub Centering • Track Alignment 
in South Bend. arc holding a Landon 
• Guide Adjustment • Drive Door Adjustment • Head Cleaning 
Turner Benefit entitled "A Night 
Electronic: • Amplitude Adjustment • Azimuth Adjustment
with Knight." The benefit will take 
• Carriage limit Adjustment • Head Radial Adjustment
place at Century Center and the Morris Civic Auditorium on Mon­day, November 9, 198I. A 6 p.m. din­ncr and reception at Century Center will be followed by "Barbs from Bobby" at Morris at H: IS p.m. 


~!'P!!!!~!!!k~® 
Tickets for the alfair will he 
In College Square across from Town & Country Shopping Centre 
available at The Observer to benefit Mon. thrv Fri. 10 a.m. ta 6 p.m.-Thun. Eve. to 9 p.m.-Sat. 10 a.m. ta 4 p.m. 

COLOR ENLARGEMENTS 
DEVELOPED & PRINTED ON KODAK PAPER 
From 110, 126, 135 Kodacolor Negatives Only 
Offer Ends Jan. 31, 1982 Mail Film, Ad With Check Or Money Order 
To: 

PRINT FILM DEVELOPED & PRINTE ON KODAK PAPER 
20 & 24 EXPOSURE SIZE 110-126-135MM $2.95 POSTPAID 

36 EXPOSURE. 135MM-$4.95 POSTPAID 
weuse
-~~~·:Kodak~paper-.. J
. 1.
I . fora good look. 
II __ 
Offer Ends Jan. 31, 1982 Mail Film, Ad With Check Or Money Order 
To: 


Senior Pat Kramer (97), who u•as sidelined in the Michigan gamefor the duration ofthe season, will applyfor anotheryear of eligibil~y Photo by Cheryl Ertelt 

~ext week, it will pay you to keep in touch with your campus communicator .. 
Spencer's 26-yard score. "Our kids IRISH ITEMS -Senior tackle Pat were in the right spots on that play, Kramer, who's been sidelined since by game." 
continuedfrom page 12 

they just got outphysicaled." the Michigan game with a shoulder "Tim has done an excellent job, 
This year is far from over, as far as injury, and freshman wingback Van he can really throw well. But our of­
Faust is concerned. "With a little Pearcy, recovering all season from a fense wasn't developing the running 
luck, it could still be a heck of a knee injury, have petitioned for an­game the way we wanted, so we had 
season. When we get it rolling, we'll other year ofdigibility. 
rt"ally bt" rolling." threat that Blair gives us as a runner. Blair did a fine job, he's definitely developed a lot of confidence the 
to get that added dimen~ion, that 

Kansas City surprises 
past two weeks." The Irish will continue to work on two nagging problems -giving up 

everyone but coach 
the big play and punching the ball into the endzone. Twice against the 
KANSAS CITY, :vto. ( AP) -It was The Chiefs, HH in ll)HO andTrojans Notre Dame had a first and just four years ago that the Kansas thought to he another year awaygoal inside the six. "It's getting City Chiefs, at 2-12, had a vise-like from contention. took o\Tr the toptough for any college team to score grip on last place in the American spot with a 2H-l..., victory Sundayfrom six yards in," Faust explained. 
Football Conference West. over Oakland, the defending Super":vtost of the touch<;(owns scored Now those same Chiefs, to the Bowl champion.
against us have been from I 0 yards surprise of many observers, are Kansas City wiped out the out or more. Unless you have great alone at the top of the AFC West and Raiders' 17-0 halftime lead with team speed, it's hard to get it in that making a bid for their first National three touchdowns directed by relief
dose." 

Football League playoff berth in a quarterback Steve Fuller, then short­
"And I don't know that you can decade. circuited Oakland's own comeback 
say we gave up the big play against Don't count Coach Marv Levy, when linebacker Gary SpaniUSC," he said about fullback Todd however, among those amazed at recovered a fumble and returned it the resurgence of the Chiefs, who 91 yards for a touchdown in the final will take the AFC's best record, 6-2, seconds. into a key dash this weekend at San Diego. "We've had some great wins iu the 

"I'm not surprised-but that's be­past," said Spani, whose touchdown cause I didn't try to speculate before was the Chiefs' third on a fumble
lnterhall racquetball and handball tournaments begtn thts week. Patrtng wtll appear each Wednesday the season where we'd be," said return this year. "But this was the tn The Observer. Pta yers not patred thts week 
Levy. "But I wouldn't have written greatest comeback win we've ever 
recetved byes and should watch for their patnng next week.lt ts the responstbthty of each parttctpantto con­off anybody. had." tact hts or her opponent and set up a match 1n each round Results of matches must be turned in to the tnterhall office (C-2 ACC) before noon on the follow­lnQ Tuesday. Fatlure to report results wtll mean dts­
quahficatlon of both parttctpants 


NFL Standings
Men's Racquetball 
Matt Stollwyk (8944) v. Tony Pterce (1424) Frank Byrne (1427) v. Ne1l Hutch1nson (8314) 
NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE
Ike Euteneuer (2832) v. Mtke Jasper (1130) NATIONAL CONFERENCE AMERICAN CONFERENCEVtncent Thomas (1620) v Kev1n Sampson (3379) East EastChns Hatfield (I 171) v. Mike Popovich (1480) 

w L T Pet. PF PA w L T Pet. PF PA Phlladelphta 7 I 0 .875 183 112 Mtamt 5 2 186
1 .688 152 Dallas 6 2 0 .750 197 167 Buffalo 5 3 0 .625 181 128 Kevtn Norburg (1573) v, Tim Tallanda (I 504) NY. Gtant~ 5 3 0 .625 164 121 N.Y. Jets 3 4 I 438 165 
202 Don Shank (871 7) v. Chip Schachner (6706) St. Louts 3 5 0 375 158 209 New England 2 6 0 250 190 183 Dave Paco (1661) v Larry Klink (1592) Washtngton 2 6 0 250 135 191 Balttmore 
7 0 125 148 271 Paul Penida (8718) v. R1chard Cordova (1249) Central Central George LaChance (6175) v. Todd Young (1244) Mtnnesota 5 3 0 .625 188 199 Ctncinnatt 5 3 0 .625 194 
155 Steve Danco (1731) v. Randy Htll (4540) Tampa Bay 4 4 0 .500 143 128 Pittsburgh 5 3 0 625 164 158 Bruce Turner (1386) v Mtke Burton (1789) Oetrott 4 4 0 .500 197 170 Houston 4 0 500 163
4 138 Damtan Marshall (1509) v Bnan Ulicny (2258) Green Bay 2 6 0 250 136 184 Cleveland 4 4 0 .500 150 172 John Shea (1721) v. Dave Desaulnters (1750) Ch1cago 2 6 0 .250 126 198 West Steve Pearsall (3510) v. Mtke He1nle (8951) West Kansas City 
6 2 0 .750 207 163 Dana Hovtg (8838) v. Bob Denck (277-11 17) San Francisco 6 2 0 .750 191 140 San Dtego 5 3 0 625 253 187 Matt Brach (1069) v. Dave Brusc1no (1169) Atlanta 4 4 0 .500 222 162 Denver 5 3 0 .625 154 
112 Net! Chadwick (277-6320) v. John Runger (4549) Los Angeles 4 4 0 .500 14 180 Oakland 5 0 375 133
3 98 Mark Cunneen (1841) v Jtm Henry (8760) New Orleans 2 6 0 .250 98 163 Seattle 2 6 0 .250 104 171 Tom O'Bnen (1248) v. Frances James (1391) Glen Kempf (8655) v. Joe Skelly (881 0) Rob Ebert (8428) v Dom Tncome (3075) Greg Marttn (I 165) v. Btl! Shanley (272-6355) Jack E1senbeis (1058) v. Tom Murray (1058) Ken Schmitz (8892) v. Kevtn O'Bnen (1767) Joe Roveda 13191) v. Tony Catenne (1621) 

Rodgers
Mike Mulligan (3345) v Steve J. Smtih (1034) 

' ' ' 
---~---­
The Observer -Sports Wednesday, October 28, 1981 -page 8 
• • • Faust 


Joe Staten (1200) v. Bob Powers (3306) 
• 

have with the other runners, but the 
• 
Women's Racquetball 
continuedfrom page 12
• 

Karen Fleck (288-0993) v Paula Corngan (6914) compeuuon is dog-eat-dog."
• 
Mary Gerrard (6912) v. Pam Gorski (1262) 
Though Rodgers is not an imposing
• 
Mananne Meyers (1262) v. Tamara Miller (1363) are a part of modern living," says 
::hns Cervenak (1363) v. Laura Larkner (1298) figure, he claims, "When I'm run­
• 
Rodgers. "Running can do that. En­
Women's Grad Racquetball 

ning, the competition is so intense 
Jane Barker (272-7325) v. Cynthta Watson (7711) durance exercises are good for your Men'a Grad-Fac Racquetball that I could take on Mean Joe
body, but they can also be a grind. 

Mark Muller! (3844) v Jtm Jentsta (277-3306) Green." D1nesh Natk (283-3381) v. Jack Jones (8827) Running is what you make it . 
"Marathon running is its own kind
Handball 
"There are a lot of myths about 

• 
James Frances (1391) v. M1ckey McGowen of athletic event. You don't see sub­(272-1322) 
running that just aren't true," says four minute miters running with us. 

• • 
I •: 

IDON'T6ET NO •
• 
• ' 
•

• • RODNEY • 
•

• DANGERFIELD • 
: FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 6 8:00 : : NOTRE DAME A.C.C. : 
• TICKETS ON SALE AT THE A.C.C. • 
Dame! Kolb (272-7033) v. Dave Paco (1688) Rodgers. "There's no lonliness in 
Even when I don't win," says
being a long distance runner. 
There's a sense of comradery you 

UNITED WAY STUDENT CAMPAIGN 
COLLECTIONS IN ALL DORMS BY SECTION LEADERS 

STUDENT FARE SHARE $2 
Rodgers, "I can salvage some con­solation by finishing the race. In Montreal a,t the 1976 Olympics), I finished 40th, but there was the prestige and satisfaction of finishing the course." 
"I think the world is ready for open (both amateurs and profes­sionals) running. Therl"'s a big 
change 01. the way tor the sport." 
Rodgers noted that the present sys­
tem ofdenoting amateurs is open to 
abuse, commenting, "it's possible 
for a country to place an athlete in its 
army and train him." 

What remains for Rodgers to ac-· 
complish? "The L.A. ( ll)!H) Olym­
pics are a long way oil but I'm 
thinking about the world champion­
ships in Helsinki, Finland in 1')83. 
That will be a big event, but I can't

: BOX OFFICE. ALSO AVAILABLE : 
see why there isn't a world cham­

I 
pionship every year in marathoning,
logo
:AT: ROBERTSON'S INS. BEND, AND: 
like there is in most other sports."

''Notre Dame is a caring place ' ' 
Rodgers placed third in the race,

:THE CONCORD MALL, ST. JOSEPH'S : 
behind second-seeded Jim Spivey,

• BANK (MAIN BRANCH), 1st SOURCE • 
who finished second. Duane Gaston, 
a schoolbus driver from Lexington,

I :BANK (MAIN), ELKHART TRUTH · : 
Kentucky, won the race with a time

: SUSPENDED CHORD (ELKHART). ' : 
of29: 13. 

············~·················· 
The Observer -Sports Wednesday, October 28, 1981 -page~9 
For 1982 


Bobby Unser slows down racing 

Another Billy Martin? 

NEW YORK (AP) -Auto racing 
entrepc:neur Rogc:r Penske Tuesday 
annoum:c:d that Rick Mears and 
newcomc:r Kevin Cogan will drive 
the full Indy car schedule for his 
team in 1982, but that Bobby Unser 
will be back only for the In· 
selected races." 
Penske said, during a news con· ference in New York, that Unser, the disputed winner of the 1981 Indy race, will become team manager for young Mexican driver josele Garza and is expected to concentrate on those duties during the upcoming year. 
There: have bec:n rumors and un­
substantiated rt~ports to that effect 
for several months, but Unser ap· 
parently did not make his final deci­
sion until after a special U.S. Auto 
Club appeal panel gave him back his 
third Indy victory several weeks ago. 
llnser, who was not at the news conference, won the: race on the: track last May 24, but hours later was pc:nalizcd a lap for illegal passing un­der a caution tlag. 
That put him in second place and gave the: triumph to his former Penske tc:ammate Mario Andretti. Hut Penske and Unser appealc:d the LISAC decision, and two mc:mbers of the special three-man panel found for Unser, restoring the victory to 
him. · 
"I think Bobby's decision (to cut down on his racing) had a lot to do with what happc:ned at In· dianapolis," Penske said. "I know the whole thing made him really sick ­he was treated for ulcc:rs in Mil­waukee (.in August). 
"He told me he had a heck of an opportunity, and I agreed with him. 
But I also told him we had to make a 
commitment to our sponsors, keep 
the continuity in our program and 
go on with testing (for , 9H2 ), not in 
January, but right away.' 
The Indy car season is scheduled 
to end this Saturday in ,'hocnix, 
Ariz., but Mears, who al• ady has 
clinched the PPG·lndy car World 
Series driving championship for this 
year, is set to spend next week tes· 
ting Penske's new PC-I 0 race car at 
Phoenix International Raceway. 
Mears, who will be 30 ' Dec. 3, 
has won six races this sea , and 13 
since joining the Pcnske : am five 
years ago as a virtual unknc ·vn. 
Cogan, 25, will rt•plaetc Unser as the second full-time: dri\ c.T on the: team, although Mears obv10usly sup· plants the: 47-year-old lJn~t:r as the team's No. 1 driver. 
The youngster, an Indy car rookie in 1981 after two years as a top com­petitor in Formula Atlantk racing, started six racc:s, finishing an im­pressive tourth at Indy and second at Milwaukee:. 
"Cogan comes to us as a 2'i-year­old with experience at most tracks and, particularly. a lot of road racing experience," Penskc: said. "And that's what you rc:ally need today. 
"lfhc:'lllisten to Rick the: way that Rick listened to Hobby, hc:'ll learn fast and he should do a great job for us." 
Cogan, a slim, handsome blond, said he realized that all young drivers would like to get the: oppor­tunity to drive for a tc:am like: Penske's. 
"The first thing that goes through your head is 'I guess I've got no t•xcuses now," Cogan said. "I think this is just a grc:at chance and I'm really looking forward to iL· 
Asked if there is going to be pressure on him to produce im­mediately, Cogan grinned easily, looked at Penske and asked, "I don't know, Roger, is there?" 
Penske just laughed. 
Bill Alsup, who drove a third team car for Penske in part of the 1981 .,. schedule and his own car the rest of the season, will not be: back next year. 
Hut Penske said details are being worked out for his team to provide Alsup with an updated PC-9B racer, and that the veteran driver apparent­ly will take: along his major sponsor, 
A.B. Dick. 
Penske's top two cars will again be sponsored by the Gould Inc. and Norton Co., along with Goodyear, CAM2 Motor Oil and Champion. 
Penske. who has bc:en involved in virtually every kind of racing, either as a driver or car owner, said there is a deal in the works that could see his tc:am also campaigning a turbo­charged Mustang, in conjunction with the Ford Motor Co., in Interna­tional Motor Sports Action en­durance races nc:xt sc:ason. 
Mear~ and Cogan would co-drive that effort. 
One other annuncemcnt yester· day was that the Penske team will tc:st a stock hlock Chevrolc:t engine in a PC-I 0 chassis for possible: usc in road races next season. 
The Penske PC indy cars all have bc:en powered by turbo-charged Cosworth engines and, according to the team owner, will continue to be for oval racing. 
-

i81G-,~ii.WiiU-ii•si·ncilnl •eln!~nn·~•• ~-~ 
_ Sunshine Promotions presents A~ 1·.\"E:\1!\G WITH 





r'' Dan Fogelberg 
If you desire financial assistance, 
scholarship, or guaranteed job opportunities upon graduation; then you should enter 

-
12-13 NOVEMBER 
as an important date in your calendar 
That is the day we are providing info 
and interviews in all areas of: 
·AVIATION 
·ENGINEERING 

·PERSONNEL MANAGEMENT 
at Notre Dame. Salaries start from $16,000 increasing to $27,500--$40,000 in 4 years. Openings also available in:· 
·Materials management 
T 0 u R 9 8 
Dan Fogelberg's Band includes:
·Business administration 
Joe Vitale \like Hanro:1
·Nuclear engineering 
Kenny Passarelli \lark Ha\1 ;an
·Doctors 

Russ Kunkel Barry Ht ,,
·Nurses 

Wednesday October 28 8p.m. >tre Dame A.C.C.
·Lawyers 

All Seats Reserved Sil.SO and Sll.OO On Sa dl\\ at: 
A C.C. Box Of1ice, Rolwrtson\-South J d & Comord \!all, St. Jot· Bank-\lain Branch. Firt Fir!>t I ,k-'\lain Branch, 
For more info or appointment for 
interview call 317-269-6197 or 
1-800-382-9404, ext. 6197 

The Observer -Sports Wednesday, October 28, 1981 -page 10 

Fans speak out on Faust, Irish football 
the Purdue game and the Irish played Michigan early and Alabama
Irish fans 
struggled on offense last year. 

Chuck Noll of the Pittsburgh Steelcrs, in an interview in the foot­ignored ball news last week, stated that a coach is only as good as his person­
. 
nel. Noll said that he considered


wamzngs 
himself a superior coach the year he went l-13. He said if the coaching
DearEditor: 

could do it, he never would have been 1-13. Last May, Tom Uchtenberg was 
Gerry Faust is the best thing to on a recruiting trip in Pennsylvania. 
happen to Notre Dame and its funs. 

The athletic dirt:ctor ofBishop Guil­
Give this man some time. For the 
The Obsen:er has received quite a bit ofmail over the last few weeks reacting to the first halfofGerry Faust's first foot­ball season at Notre Dame ­some pro and some con. These three letters are repre­sentative of the entire spectrum of views. The first two were received last week, and the third on Monday. 

foyle High School in Altoona, Pa., ar­Other quick comments:
first time in years, we Notre Dame ranged for Tom to show the 1980 fans in Pennsylvania could smile af­The Irish announcers apologizing 
Highlight Film and have a question 
ter the recruiting season. Gerry for another loss: "It takes time no and answer session with the public matter how many talented players
signed the best QB and two of the in the high school gym. you have, to build a new system."
three best linemen in Pennsylvania

Lichtenberg told the ND fans that last spring. Don't alibi for Coach Faust ... Gerry Faust's goal this year was to please.
If the Notre Dame students are as 

make a major bowl game. He said I seem to recall a coach named
special as Gerry believes they arc, they will rally behind him. He will
that the National Championship Parseghian installing a new system 
would be very unlikely for the in one year. ( Ara, it's too bad you had
get the job done. He will get the jobfollowing reasons: to retire!)
done. He is a superb recruiter. His 
• Whik they were putting in a new And what is the head coach doing
enthusiasm and charisma arc a offense it would make it more pos-ddiriite plus for Notre Dame. shuffling quarterbacks in and out? 
• sible to lose against quality op· 
This isn't high school football where ponents. you can substitute freely and
Barry Sbevock 

• The Notre Dame linemen that 
dominate just because a fresh player Faust inherited were not great ath­
Curwensvilie, Pa. 

comes in. This is big time college letes as compared with the freshmen 
football and no one dominates ofthe coming year. anvmore. 
• The linemen were not very strong Replace i thought Notre Dame was to have as most did not bench press their 
an imaginative offense? Heck, this is weight when tested this winter. He 
worse than Oevine, and no matter said this was a major concern. 

quarterback 

what you may think or say about Mr. Lichtenberg made it quite 
Devine. he did win, and he did bring clear that most of the Notre Oame 
a National Championship to Notre players Faust inherited arc great kids 
Dame. but not great athletes. He said Notre 

and coach 

As far as I and many of my fellow­Dame was definitely overrated as far 
Notre Dame fans are concerned. as talent goes. DearEditor: these first five games have wiped out 
It is quite possible that Gerry any confidence in this squad and Faust did not want to rain on the stu­Blair Kiel is NOT a good quarter­coaching staff. dents' and fans' enthusiasm when he back; hell, he's not even a good pun­For I 7 years I have religiously agreed that his team could go un­ter. Is this player supposed to lead . followed the Irish and had this inner 
defeated and win the National tht· Irish? Be serious. Is there no one confidence before every single Championship. better? I'm not blaming the player. game that they would win. Since 
W'hen you reflect on the tie with He's giving his best. Uut I am Michigan State (No, not after the Georgia Tech. the struggle with Air blaming the pc:rson making the deci­Purdue shocker. That's happened Force and the losses to USC and sion that allows him to play. w·hcrc, before, but NO has always come Georgia, you sec that enthusiasm oh where, is a "Notre Name quarter­back with a vengeance to clobber and optimism are blind at times. back?'' ( Huarre, Hanratty, Theis· the next opponent. What a lifdcss Thank God Mark Herrman missed mann, Clements, Montana)? performance versus the Spartans!) 
-
BARCLAY'S FRESH APPROACH: 

NOW YOU
CAN 


AFFORD

-

TOBE 
Dig into the menu broiled in our 
that won't sink your special barbe­budget. 
cue sauce, for Talk about a fresh 
56.65. Or, a approach, we think beefy Rib Eye you'll find more on Steak, cut from our menu for the the prime rib money than any­and charcoal 
where in town. And broiled to capturethere's enough 
all the outdoor fla­
variety to enjoy a vor. Just 56.75. And 
different selection ali our dinners come 
every night for two with all the borne·weeks! 
made soup youFor instance. trv want, special gar­
CHOOSEY
a tender one-half· lic bread, and yourBBQ Chicken in choice of our rice. 
our own tangy bar­home fries or baked

CHOOSEY
becue sauce, just potato.
54.95. Or. our So drop by andHearty Prime Rib eat up on some low


CHOOSEY.
bones, slowly prices. 


A fresh approach to good food:rM 52885 US 31 North South Bend,.272-5478 
OContinental Restaurant Systems. 191!1 


that confidence is lacking. And now Florida State! Are we looking for a losing season? Look who's next: Southern California. I do not even want to think about it. 
What else is there to say? This is embarrasing ... two wins and three losses. Notre Dame? Notre Dame!! What's an honest, hard·working sports fan to do? Who else is there to root for? Hell, I still root for Arnold 
Palmer  to  win  one  more  PGA  
tournament.  Am  I  a  dreamer  or  
. what?  At  least  it  used  to  be  

reasonable to assume that every single damn year Notre Oame had a chance to win the National Cham­pionship. And now this. Agghhh! 
Good luck -Boy does the foot­ball program need it. 
SteveZulim Santa Clara, Cal. 

NDplayers 
are human 
beings too 
Dear Notre Dame Family: 
"OlJST FAUST" and "BURY GER­

RY" have been noticeable and 
annoying outbursts to each of the 
Notre Dame football tamily. I feel 
these are being remarked by those 
football fans who are interested in 
the score, and not seeing any deeper 
than that. 
Someone doesn't have to or need to, but I want to speak out along with sharing a little insight on this overall football team for the simple reason that I love each member of this "Irish ·• squad. 
When you pull a cup or glass out of your cupboard, most of you look inside to make sure it's clean. Well it's the same with these young men who are representing Notre Dame. For so many of you just look and watch the team just as uniforms or numbers. Inside those unitorms with numerals are young men with emotions, feelings and pride who love what they are doing along with giving everything they have on that field. They're using their God-given talents to their best. Just think when 
For information or to talk about these things, jerJI frerJ to call on mrJ. 
Br. David Baltrinic, CSC Vocation Director 103 Columba Hall phone: 3215 or 6284 
Brothers of Holy Cross Vocation Counseling On Campus How Jo I know if the Lord is callin,g me? 
+ 
How does Brotherhood fulfill my need for prayer, cornmtmity sharing and service? 

r How do I pray to discern the Lord's call? 

+ 
'Vhat are the Brothers' ministries? 

+ 
How do Brothers respond to the needs of our Jay : cornmittrnent to Jesus in the poor, oppressed , social justice? 


_J.. What is the formation program for the Brothers of Holy Cross? 
your child or even you do some­
thing and don't come out on top, 
doesn't your child or you say, "I gave 
my all?" Along with that you respect 
the person or or people who in­
structed you. 
I would like to summarize what all 

I've said. I have been able to get to 
know the coaches not as coaches, 
and the players not just as players, 
but (and I emphasize) as individuals. 
They arc just like you or I, human 
beings with purpose in life and that 
is to let the Lord direct their lives. 
Coach• Gerry Faust and his staff, 
along with those young men who 
take the field each week, are only 
human as you and I. Remember 
there is only one who perfect and 
that is our Heavenly Father. To go 
along with this, I would like to inject. 
a thought, one which you all have 
heard at least once while growing 
up, and that is God did not create 
this earth in one day. 
So please think about Coach Faust 
and this fine and great group of 
young men and the way they feel 
inside. just as God stays with us, let's 
show these fellows and Gerry you're 
with them all the way too!! 
This is directed to each of you 

who are questioning the coach and 
team. Before you do, get to know 
them as people then you'll find out 
how much they give of themselves. 
They're great and fine individuals 
who I have come to ktlOW and love. 
One last thought, when you get down or cut down the coaches and players you art· getting and cutting down your Heavenly Father for the simJ:!le reason He gave His lik on the cross and rose again so we may have life. So in turn they arc living Christ's life. 
A True Friend and "Irish" Fan, 
Keith A. Penrod 

EDITOR'S NOTE: Although his name may not be a familiar one in Notre Dame sports circles, Kietb Penrod is very• much a part ofFight­ing lrisb athletics. lie is the young man aflicted with Cerebral Palsy, often seen in a wheelchair or bright 
yellow motor etlrt, on the bench or sidelines or Cartier or scooting around campus. Kielb association 
with Notre Dame atbletics as been a great source of inspiration and motivation in his life. 



--· --~---------------------------------­
The Observer_-==­
T0 day==============W=e=d;:;:n=es=d=a=y=,=O=c=to=b=e=r=2=8='=1=9=8=l==p=ag=e=l:;l 
Molarity 


Simon 
I HATf TlfE ~I 1-\E~E. 
THE" T1W5TEE3 A~E 6TtLL NERVOV5 !\BOUT GERRY F"AU5TS /JIJC:ASY TRANf>mO/J AIJP ARE AFRAIP RE:PLA,CIN{f HE.5BU~c':!H loWJULD HAM££: NDT1ff PA/vf£'5 
ACADEMIC. fVtN~/Nt, PRoP IN BOTI+11/t: AP ANPVPI PoLL6 

I Tfi/NK THERE'S fl CI!UNK oF MEAT IN MY ~ftGHfTTI. 
A WHAT? 
\ 


The Daily Crossword 
©1981 by Chicago Tribune-N.Y. News Synd. Inc. All Rights Reserved 
Michael Molinelli 
Campus 

Tiil5 SAHf CLI~VATJ5H 15 EX~HP/..IFIC:P BYTII£ COWT//JVAL APPE"AIWJC£ OF 6POM5 Plfff'LTQK £H£FiiTV5,''/-1D06£" !';RAU5£, AT A/..l. £VENT'S /N5TE'AP OF 

ND_ RfRLLY. IT'~ ALMOSr LIKE
1

A I'IE'ATMLL OR toMfTII/1'16. 
HE'f~ llf':> RI6/!T! 
LfT ME 

ACROSS 25 Deadly 1 Repair 29 Picnic 6 Eban of pest 
Israel 30 Divan 
10 French 34 Moral statesman, nature of Leon a group 
14 Consent 35 USSR range 15 Scatter, 36 Circuit 
in battle 37 Preferred 16 Facilitate alternative 17 Final song, 41 Make lace 
at times 42 To be, in 20 Heraldic Paris 
term 43 Young eel 21 Beetle 44 Holdup 22 Listed 46 Cambridge 
items school 23 Against letters 24 Before ball 47 Officer 
or fall trainees 
Tuesday's Solution 






•9:00 
a.m.-2:00 p.m. -group interviews, new york law school. 

•9:00 
a.nl.-noon -portli>lio review, smc ~allerks, free ofcharge. 

•12: 
I'; p.m. -seminar. "research in japan", dr. charles f. kulpa, galvin auditorium, microbiology seminar. 

•1 
:00 p.m.-.3:00 p.m. -portli>lio review, snl<.' galleries. free ofcharge. , 

• 
.3:50 p.m. -seminar. "microphont· design and the microphont·". dr. robnt c. ramsey, 50.3 engineering building. spon~on:d br the aerospan· and mt-chanical engineering departments. 

• 
5:50 p.m. -demonstration. ibm writer. I I<; cnnb. sponsored by computing ct·ntl'f. •--l::\0 p.m. -dreyfuss distinguisht·d scholar lecture, "vibrational excitation ofcht·mical relaxa­tion in cryogenic solids", dr. george pimental, uni· versity of california 'at berkeley, 127 nicuwland science hall. sponsored by chembtry department. 

•4:50 
p.m. -piano festival, studt·nt recital, piano festival, smc little theater. 

•6 
p.m. -volleyball, nd vs. goshen college. ace, auxilliary gym. 


•: p.m. -catholic inquiry series, "why tdl a priest?", rev. james t. burtchadl, c.s.c., hayes healy auditorium, sponsored by campus ministry.
•7. 
9, II p.m. -tllm, "the graduate", engineering auditorium, student union, S I. 

•7, 
I 0 p.m. -shakespeare film, roman polanski's "macbeth", annenberg auditorium, SI. 

• 
7:.30 p.m. -study session, pax christi sessions ';-6, sacred heart presbytery meeting room. 

•H:OO 
p.m. -meeting, 1-S society meeting, latest nasa movies on shuttle, Iafortune little theater, bring dues.· 

•H 
p.m. -dreyfuss distinguished scholar lecture, "science and public policy", dr. george pimentd, memorial library auditorium, sponsored by depart­ment ofchemistry. 

•H 
p.m. -concert, dan fogdberg, ace, SI I.SO and $1 I. 

•H::\0 
p.m. -speaker, fellowship of christian ath­letes forum, head baseball coach larry gallo, badin hall chapd, all interested are invited to attend. 


Television Tonight 
16  MASH  
22  CBS News  
28  Joker's Wild  
34  The MacNeil/Lehrer Report  
46  Message for the Hour  
16  All in tht: Family  
22  Family Ft:ud  
28  Tic Tac Dough  
34  Straight Talk  
46  Oral Roberts  
16  Rt:al Pt·opk  
22  Mr. Merlin  
28  Greatest Amt:rican Hero  
34  Picasso: A Painter's Diary  
46  Lt:ster Sumrall Teaching  
22  WKRP in Cincinnati  
46  The Renewed Mind  
16  Facts of Life  
22  CBS Movie: "Tht: Ambush Murders"  
28  The Fall Guy  
46  Today with Lester Sumrall  
16  Love, Sidnt:y  
34  The World ofFt:rnando Bott:ro  
16  Quincy  
34  Views ofAsia  
46  Calvary Tt:mple  
46  Michiana Today  
16  NewsCenter 16  
22  22 Eyewitness Nt:ws  
28  Newswatch 28  
34  Tht: Dick Cavt:tt Show  
46  Praist: the Lord  
16  Tonight Show  
22  WKRP/Ft:ature Movk  
28  ABC News Nightline  
34  Captiont:d ABC Nt:ws  
28  Love Boat  
16  Tomorrow Coast to Coast  

-
-
48 Snakes 50 The whole 
shebang 51 Work of art 54 Consumed 55 Lupino and 
others 59 Cliche for 
kids 62 Gardner 63 Land of 
shamrocks 64 Devoutness 65 River dam· 66 Evans or 
Carnegie 67 Blend 
DOWN 1 Leaf 2 Literary 
conflict 3 Turkey 
or fox 4 Yield 5 Coop 
occupant 6 Gas 7 Physicist 
Niels 8 Except 9 NATO word 
10 Moistens 11 Reclined 12 Secondhand 13 Tableland 18 Man on a 
pedestal 19 Past 23 Convincing 

argument 24 Trap 25 Latvians 26 An Allen 27 Greek 
letter 28 Play-
with 29 Aware 31 Popeye's 
girl 32 Gem plane 33 Mimics 35 Phrygian 
youth 38 Treated, 
like steel 39 Makaweli 40 Ogygian 45 Amass 47 Skein 49 Litigate 50 In harmony 51 Duck 52 Raced 53 Hun bigshot 54 Indigo 55 Footnote 
abbr. 56 Consider 57 Wine city 
of Italy 58 Mythical stream 60 Malay isthmus 61 Health resort 
7:00p.m. 
7:30p.m. 
8:00p.m. 
8:30p.m. 
9:00p.m. 
9:30p.m. 
10:00 p.m. 
10:30p.m. ll:OOp.m. 
11:30p.m. 
12:00p.m. 
12:30 p.m.. 

r--------------------~

I Student Union presents 
I 


THE GRADUATE 
I I
I STARRING -Dustin Hoffman 1 
I I
I Music by Simon and Garfunkel 1I wed/thurs Oct. 28,29 I
·---------------------· 

Bill Rodgers talks about aspects of running life 
-
By BRIAN REIMER 
Sports Writer 
As the majority of Notre Dame 

and St. Mary's students fled South 
Bend two weekends ago, Bill 
Rodgers and other world-class run­
ners arrived in the river city for a ten 
kilometer road race. The Sports 
Medicine Clinic of Saint Joseph's 
Medical Center sponsored the 
event, which coincided with the 
Center's opening. A total of 1,600 
runners participated. To kick-off the 

weekend, Rodgers met with the , press on a variety oftopics. 
The four-time Boston Marathon 

champion claimed to have a per­
sonal interest in the rapidly expand­
ing field of sports medicine, 
Sixth game of series postponed 
NEWYORK(AP)-The SIXth game of the 1981 World Series was postponed by rain yesterday with the Los Angeles Dodgers leading the New York Yankees, 3-2 in the best­of-seven set. 
Game Six will be played tonight at 
Yankee Stadium with a seventh 
game, ifnecessary, tomorrow night. 
The baseball commissioner's 
office announced the postponement 
at 3:45 p.m. EST yesterday. The 
game had been scheduled to be 
played at 8:20 p.m., but with inter­
mittent rain during the day and the 
threat of heavy rain at night, the 
game was postponed. 

The last World Series game postponed by rain was Game One of the 1979 classic between the Bal­timore Orioles and Pittsburgh Pirates. That Series opened in Bal­tionore. 
··especially u. its psychological aspects. They're very big. As I see it, running has two kinds of benefits: physical and psychological. 
"It's necessary to relax the heart and lungs, but it's also necessary to relax yourself from the stresses that 
See RODGERS, page 8 

Wednesday, October 28, 1981 -page 12 
Irish seaworthy? 
Navy lurking on ND horizon 
CLOSE ONLY COUNTS IN. . . -Despite Notre Dame's disappointing 2-4 record, the Irish have not played as poorly as that mark would indicate. Had the · Irish scored only 20 points in each of their games this season, they would be 5-1, losing only to Michigan. With the exception oftheir trouncing in Ann Arbor, the Irish have only been 1 7 points away from that 5-1 
ledger, losing by one to Purdue, six to Florida State and 
seven to Southern Cal. 

SKID ROW -The Fighting Irish entertain Navy on 
Saturday, looking to halt a two-game and four-of-five 
losing skid. The last time the Irish lost four straight 
games during a season was back in 1963, when the 
Hugh Devore-coached Irish posted a 2-7 season ledger. 
That was also the last year that the Irish lost three games 
ina row. 

Notre Dame is also obsessed with a two-game home losing skein. The Irish dropped two straight home con­tests to Missouri and Michigan at the start of the 1978 season, but have not·lost three in a row in Notre Dame Stadium since 1960 when the 2-8 Irish dropped home decisions to Purdue, Michigan State, Pittsburgh and Iowa. 
TAKING ON WATER-The Irish have managed to 
sink Navy's ship in their last 17 meetings. Notre Dame 
enjoys a 44-9-1 advantage heading into the 55th 
meeting between the two schools on Saturday in a 
series which began in 1927 and has been contested 
continuously since then. The Middies' last decision 
over the· Irish was in 1963, when Navy's Heisman 
Trophy quarterback Roger Staubach downed the Irish 
35-14 in Notre Dame Stadium. 

The Irish have won 13 of 16 games vs. Navy in Notre 
Dame Stadium. 
ON THE DEFENSIVE-Notre Dame's defensive ef­
forts against Navy in recent years have probably made 
the Middies happy that we are on their side for a war. 
The Irish have shut out Navy since the last quarter ofthe 
1978 game in Cleveland which Notre Dame won 27-7. 
Last year, the Irish cruised to a 33-0 decision in Giants 
Stadium in East Rutherford, N.J. and they blanked Navy 
14-0 here in 1979. 

In last year's contest, Jim Stone slipped through 
Navy's defense for 211 yards on 31 carries, while the 
Irish defense stoppe~the Middies with 130 yards ofto­
tal offense. 

OUT OF THE BLOCKS -Ifpast history is any guide, 
Navy may have a tough time scoring against the Irish in 
the first quarter this weekend. Notre Dame has not sur­
rendered a first-quarter point yet this season, and has 
only given up I 7 points in the second quarter. After 
their halftime r~soite. however, thr Irish defr'lse ha1• 

been nicked for 39 third quarter and 33 fourth-quarter 
tallies. 

The Irish offense has struck early this season as well. 
Of Notre Dame's 88 points this season, 31 have been 
scored in the first period, with 16, 20 and 21 points 
recorded in each ofthe last three frames. 
TAILBACK TOTALS -Marcus Allen's 14 7 yards rus­
hing against Notre Dame marked only the sixth time in 
the last 19 years that a USC tailback has gained over 100 
yards vs. the Irish. O.J. Simpson only managed the feat 
once along with Ricky Bell, while Charles White rushed 
for 100 yards on three separate occasions. 
However, five of those six 100-yard days have oc­
curred in the seven games since 1975. 
SEASON HIGHS -Two Irish offensive stalwarts 
enjoyed season-high statistical accomplishments 
against the Trojans. Split end-turned wingback-turned 
split end Tony Hunter caught five passes for 76 yards, 
his best day for the Irish since catching five for 119 
yards at Tennessee his freshman year. Blair Kiel com­
pleted 12-of-23 passes for 115 yards, the most attempts 
and completions ofhis Irish career. 
And, for the first time this season, the Irish hurling 
corps did not throw an interception on Saturday. 
TRAINER'S TABLE -With the unfortunate injuries 
to Dean Masztak and Mike Boushka last week, and to 
Dave Condeni earlier in the season, the Irish have .now 
lost three oftheir top four receivers. Masztak, who tore 
ligaments against USC, retires with 62 receptions for 
924 yards for the Irish, second among Irish tight ends 
only to Ken MacAfee's 128 catches for 1759 yards. 
DUEUNG KICKERS -Irish placekicker Harry Oliver 
~ill square off with a crosstown rival when the Irish 
entertain Navy. The Middies' Steve Fehr has booted 15 
field goals in seven games this year to share the NCAA 
lead with Georgia's Kevin Butler. Fehr has made all of 
his last nine attempts and has missed only four attempts 
this season, all from outside the 40-yard line. 
Fehr, who played high school ball at Princeton High School in Cincinnati where he was a prep opponent of Oliver, owns Navy records with 39 career three­.pointers and 53 attempts. Fehr's 173 points is the most 
See ITEMS, page 7 
Basketball ticket distribution plan 
Notre Dame Students uemand from the seniors and 
Basketball ticket sales and dis-juniors, both packages or just one tribution for Notre Dame students package will be offered to sopho­will begin on Monday (Nov. 2). _mores/law/graduate students. All The student basketball season tick-sophomores/law/graduate stu­et will be split into two eight-game dents will at least be guaranteed 
packages of equal quality as fol­lows: 
Package A Sat., Nov. 28 -St. joseph's (Ind.) Mon., Dec. 7 -Murray State Sat.,jan. 16-Davidson Sat.,Jan. 23-Maryland Wed.,jan. 27-Maine Tues. Feb. 2 -San Francisco Sat., Feb. 27 -DePaul Tues., Mar. 2 -Northern loVI 
t»ackageu Fri., Nov. 20 -YugoslaviaTeam Sat., Dec. 5 -UCLA Sat., Dec. 12 -Northern IllinoU, Tues.,Jan. 19-Villanova Mon.,Jan. 25 -Idaho Sat.,jan. 30 -Marquette Sat., Feb. 13 -N.C. State Tues., Feb. 23 -Fordham 

Seniors and juniors only wtll have the opportunity to purchase Package A, Package B or both­packages at the designated times listrd below Based upon the the opportunity to purchase one eight-game season ticket. Fresh­men will be offered the residual of the eight-game season tickets from above on a first-come, first-served 
basis. Strict adherence to the folowing schedule is mandatory, and there can be no exceptions: Seniors ­Monday(Nov. 2}Juniors-Tues­day (Nov. 3 ); Sopho­mores/Graduate/Law Students­Wednesday {Nov. 4 );Freshmen ­Thursday (Nov. 5 ). The ticket win­dows will be open from 8 a.m. until 5 p.m. through the lunch hour. Crowd-control gates and stu­dent security personnel will be utilized for the ticket issue. Please stand in single lines as indicated by the crowd-control gates. Gate 2 will be open at 7:30a.m. daily. A student ID and payment must bepresented at the ticket windows on the second floor of the ACC. The prices ofthe alternatives are as follows: Lower Arena -$24 for one package, $48 for both; Bleac­hers -$18 for one package, $36 for both. Make checks payable to 
See TICKETS, page 6 

USC 'outphysicaled' the Irish, .rays Faust 
By KELLY SULLIVAN 
Sports Writer 
A lot of hard hitting goes on in a 
typical Notre Dame-Southern Cal 
game, and ifGerry Faust didn't know 
that before, he found out first hand 
on Saturday. 
"I got a real taste ofthe hitting," he 
laughed, referring to the fall he took 
on the sidelines when USC lineback­
er Chip Banks ran into him. Faust 
bounced right up after the knock­
down, something he said his team 
has done after their latest loss. 
"I was really amazed at Monday's 
practice," he told reporters at his 
Tuesdaypress conference. "The kids 
got so fired up for the Southern Cal 
game, and they played their hearts 
out. I was concerned about them 
keeping their heads up, but 
everyone, especially the student 
body, has been great and that's made 
a real difference to these players." 
Not everyone has been so 
encouraging to Faust. Following the 
game, one reporter asked the Notre 
Dame coach ifhe though he was the 
right man for the job. "What do you 
think?" Faust snapped back, and 
went on to the next question. 

"That was impossible for me to answer," Faust said yesterday. "If I had said yes, then I'd have sounded cocky, and if I'd s':ud no, I would have been tearing myself down. On­ly time will tell if I'm the right per­son." 
Time has told the coaching staff 

that NoLre Dame's 2-4 recou.J 1s not 
indicative ofthe talent on this squad. 
"We're 14 points away from being 
5-I," he said about the three close 
losses to Purdue, Florida State and 
Southern Cal. "With our schedule 
that's saying a lot." ' 
Faust explained that the problems 

associated with any transition have 
been especially troublesome be­
cause of Notre Dame's demanding 
schedule. He's had to simplify the 
new offensive system, because the 
Irish haven't enjoyed a healthy back­
field thia season. 
But technicalities like sophistica­

ted blocking schemes and 
complicated pass patterns have 
started to take hold, and every unit is 
beginning to benefit now that the 
coaches are becoming a cohesive 
unit themselves. "We're starting to 
think alike now," added Faust. "We 
all sawsomething in Saturday's game 
that we've been looking for all along. 
The staff has a better idea ofwhat we 
want done." 
Because · Blair Kiel got the job done Saturday, Faust will go with the sophomore quarterback again in the . Navy game. He emphasized that senior Tim Koegel has not been pushed out of the picture because he won't be back next season. "We haven't scrapped this season," stressed Faust. "To be honest, we're not looking at the future, we're looking at the present. Therefore, we're evaluating every player 11,ame 
See FAUST, page 7 
-









