
, , , 'Breaker ' -page 6 


THlJRSDAY, SEPTEMBER 24, l9H I
VOL XVI, NO. 24 J!l :I~,l,rendenr srudent newspaper serving notrt" dJ.me and saint m.uv··s 
Space Shuttle Columbia's planned Oct. 9 launch may be delayed by more than a month because ofa fuel leak which damaged protective tiles on the craft. The propellant spilled below the 
white patch ··near the front of the nose cone, damaging 200 heat-resistant tiles. Columbia, seen here in the Vehicle Assemb~y Building at Cape Canaveral, was being prepared for its second mission. See related story• on page 3. (AP Photo) 
High level meetings 
Haig, Gromyko begin talks 
Reagan concedes on Social Security 
WASHINGTON (AP) The president's reported decision against recommending the change in Social Security would represent a concession to Congress, where the plan has encountered strong opposi· tion from Republicans and lkmocrats alike. White House aides said the delay would have meant an averag~; of S I 00 in foregone benefits for Sol'ial Security recipients over the three months. 
The prt•sident had been consider­ing an overall plan for S 16.3 billion in spending cutbacks. By far the most controversial t:lcment was thc proposed dt:lay from) uly I to Oct. I for next year's Social Security cost­of-living increase:. 
Similar delays werc to bc rccom· mcndcd for railroad retirement bt·ndlts; federal or military pcn­sions; food stamps; Supplemcntal Securitv Income; vctcrans' pensions; compe~sation for injured federal workers; black lung bcncfits for coal miners and the school lunch and child nutrition programs. 
Thc plan also indudcd a S2 billion rcduction in thc administration's plan f<>r a defense buildup, across· thc-board cuts in virtually all of the government programs, phasing out 75,000 kdcral jobs over three years, abolishing the Departments of Energy and Education and phasing out general revenue sharing. 
But thc president and his closest advisers went back to the drawing board earlicr this week when the two top Republicans in Congress, Senate GOP Leader Howard Bakcr of Tennessee and House Leader Bob Michel of Illinois, said defcat for the plan was likely in Congrcss. 
In addition to thcir complaints over the plans for Social Security, many congressional leaders said thc administration's plan fur a S2-billion cut from its carlicr dcfensc budgl't would likely be increased in Congress. 
But Defense Secretary Caspar Weinberger told the House Budget Committee thc S2 billion "is the maximum" the president will recommcnd. 
To cut deeper tha t n the s 13 bil· lion, three-year program cndorsed by the president "would have a dramatically bad dfect" on the na­tion's security," Weinberger said. 
Later in thc day, Reagan poscd for pictures in thc Oval Office with wel­tcrwcight boxing champion Sugar Ray Leonard, who oftercd this advice on how to balance the budgct: "all it takes is a good punch." 

restraining deployment of medium­range nuclear missiles in Europe. The U.S. sidc was said to favor mid­November in Geneva. 
In Washington, a high-ranking Defense Dcpartmcnt oftkial said the United States may approach the Soviet Union within the ncxt six months with proposals for limiting strategic weapons. Richard N. Perk, an assistant defcnse secretary, said that in any SALT talks the Reagan ad­ministration's aim would be to limit weapons within "broad catcgorics" rather than producing a detailed agreement such as the SALT II pact. 
Considering the harsh rhetoric thc two nations have directed at each other in reccnt months, the fact 
See TALKS, page 4 
Belief remains 

Family comes first for Amish 
By MARSHA HAMILTON 

AssociatedPress Writer 
BERNE, Ind. (AP) . A team of horses trampled Mar­garet Wickey's husband to death a year ago. The Amish woman was lc.:ft with eight children -the youngest born a day after the father was buried. 
"It was a hard time for her," Mrs. Wickey's mothcr, Mary Jane Schwartz, recalls. "We got lots of help from friends everywhere:, but those children necded a father." 
Mrs. Wickey's r.usband had a younger brother, six 
years her junior. 

"We kcpt hoping hc would stcp forward and marry hcr, but he: just didn't," her mot· her says with a TH URSDA Ytm~~::::iJ\ji.i.:!:::::j:!!\:!:1 : 
toothless smile. "We didn't know 
~J.]l1t!i.:!:~~,:jjt~:::i.i.i'FO CUS
what to do and we were nearly at wits' end." 
But this summer, nearly a year to the day after her husband's death, Mrs. Wickey married his brother. "Those kids love him just like they did his brother. We're all so happy," Mrs. Schwartz says. Mrs. Schwartz's relief stems from the Amish bclief 

Bell claims Reynolds never gave charge ·Card approval 
By MARK WORSCHEH 
Neu•sStaff 
Spokesmcn for Indiana Bell and 
American Telephone and Telegraph 
(AT&T) have denicd rumors that ac­
tor Burt Reynolds authorized public 
use of his Bell charge-card number 
amid wide reports of such usagc at college campuscs across the nation, including Notrc Dame. 
Spokesmen for Rcynolds, inter­vicwed by NBC's Rona Barrett for the Sept. 17 Today Show, denied that the number \Vas Reynolds' and that ·Reynolds had any involvement in the mattcr. 
"The entire mattcr is now in the 
hands of the phone company," said 
Reynolds' spokesman. 
According to Indiana Bell In· 
formation Spccialist Dennis 
McCabe, rumors of unknown origin 
began circulating last week that Burt 
Reynolds had won a S2,000,000 law­
suit against AT&T. Instead of 
keeping the money, thc rumors sug­
gest, Reynolds oftercd to kt thc 
general public charge: thcir long dis­
tance: phone calls to his credit card 
number. 
"This typc of thing has happcned in the past," said AT&T spokcsman Phil Delong from Ncw York. 
"Operators havc bcen informed about the number." 
"The idea is to take a wcll-likcd celebrity who has a certain touch of Robin Hood and build rumors around his name. The same thing happened to Steve McQuecn and Paul Newman a fcw years ago," said Delong. 
Delong, who lcarncd of the rumors last week, was unable to es­timate thc scopc of this recent wave of toll fraud, but said that after the next billing cycle some hard num­bcrs would begin to appear. 
A check of some major univer· sitics across thc nation rcvcakd that usage of the so-called "Burt's num· bcr" has indccd occurrcd, and that usage is still going on. A Notrc 

that the family looks after its own, no mattcr what. 
"There's an old Amish saying: you raisc your own 
farm hands," says professor Atlec Stroup, former head of 
thc sociology dcpartment at Wooster College: in Ohio 
and a studcnt ofthe Amish for more than 30 ycars. 
"There would bc a stigma associatcd with going to 
federal or state groups and asking for hclp. They 
wouldn't do that. They havc their own social system," 
he said. 

That social system depcnds on thc family to meet both the demands of today's economy and the dictatcs of the strict Amish religion. It is a delicate balance:. 
Amish religion bolsters thc family by insulating it from 20th century temptations. The Amish believe in following the ways of thcir ancestors, emulating their plain style of drcss and refusing to use most tools of modcrn technology. They also turn down most outside help. Self-reliance is a primc virtue. 
Amish children go to Amish schools, but only through the eighth grade, believing that lift:·learning is more important than book-learning. 
The Amish own no cars. They usc horse-drawn buggies for short trips and hire a driver fur about SO cents a mile for longer journeys. 
Amish children who work outside the household give their salaries to their parents until they arc 21. 
See AMISH, page 4 
Dame student, who wished to remain anonymous belicves that "about 400 students" have uscd thc numbcr. However, another bclit•vcs that up to 'iO percent ofthe students havc uscd the fraudulent number. 
All AT&T rcprcscntativcs con· taned agrccd that thc matter will not bc treatcd lightly. 
Said McCabc,"The usc of such a number is highly illegal. There arc fcc.Jcral penaltics of up to five years in prison and up to $1000 in fines fur fraud." 
AT&T and Indiana Bcll could not, 
howcver, cxplain how they planncd 
to catch all thc illegal callers. 
"What we normally do is to inves­tigate it going through the people who were called. The bottom line is that it is not an innoccnt prank. Any charges not recovered must bc treated as a loss to bc paid through incrcascd ratcs," explained McCabe. 
Delong said that in many cascs, Bdl security would go through with an interview with thc people who reccivcd thc call. "At that point, the people can lic, but we think that whcn thc evidcncc is prescntcd, they will nut be able to deny knowledge:," said Dclong. 
He also mcntioned that billing thc recciving party would be onc pos­sibility for AT&T. 
"Each instance will require: inves­tigation," emphasized DeLong. 
"Ccrtainly thcrc will bc losscs, and thcy will bc trcated as a bad dcbt. Ewntually thc phone-using public will pay." 
Furthcr commcnting on the rumor, Dclong said, "A,s it mush· rooms, somc pcople will go cuckoo and try many numbcrs while others will try onc maybe and rcalizc it is wrong." 
DcLong implicc.J that the: morc flagrant misuscrs would bc among the first to be traced. 
"Telephone fraud is a big problem. Somewhcre in the ran11.c of 
See BURT, page 4 

UNITED NATIONS (AP) Secretary ofState Alexander M. Haig Jr. ami Soviet Foreign Minister Andrei A. Gromyko, relaxed and smiling, exchanged pleasantries yes­terday and then started the highest­levd meeting so far between the Reagan administration and the Soviet leadership. 
The two diplomats, each dressed in a gray suit and seated on green sofas in the I I th floor ofiice of U.N. Ambassador Jeane J. Kirkpatrick at the U.S. Mission, conversed in English. 
Haig told Gromyko he had read his biography Tuesday night. Taking note that this is the 25th year Gromyko has held his post, Haig referred to other foreign ministers across the street at the U.N. Head­quarters by saying, "They've not got the experience you have." 
Their talks were expected to last three or four hours before recessing until next week. 
They were expected to decide the dare to start negotiations aimed at 

-------------------------------------------, 



News Brie!§ 
Thursday, September 24, 1981 --page 2 
c===~========~=================================== 
by The OhJerz•cr and The Assoaated Prr:SJ 
Northern J. Calloway' who plays David in the d1ildn:n's tdevision series, "Sesame Street," will plead innocent by reason of insanity to a charge that he beat a woman friend on the head with an iron rod here last year, according to his lawyer. Clad in only a T-shirt. the 3.3-year-old Calloway then allegedly went on a rampage through the neighborhood, snatching a child's book satchel. smashing a car window with a rock and entering a private home where he reportedly smashed the family's crystal. Lionel Bar­rett. Calloway's lawyer, said his client has undergone outpatient treament at New York's .'v1ount Sinai Hospital after spending time at \Iiddle Tennessee :\!ental Health Institute here. An Oct. IS court date has been tentatively set. -AP 
Solidarity's offer to compromise on the issue of wllrker ~elf-management could be a "step toward realism," the Polbh government said yesterday. Official sources said the union's offer indicated the start of "some bridge-building" that could case the confrontation between the government and the independent union. l 'nion leaders resolved at a meeting Tuesday to let the government keep the exclusive right to appoint managers of state enterprises if the regime allowed workers a veto. This was a step hack from the union's previous insistence that it have sole power to hire and !Ire managers. The government oftlcial in charge of union aft:tirs. Stanislaw Ciosek. told a news conference that if the regime treated the new offer "separately from other n:solutions. statements and opinions and separate from statements maue at the congress, then in my opinion it would be a step toward realism." -AP 
A plaque marking the spot where Kunta Kinte, an­
cestor of"Roots" author Alex Haley, arrived on a slave ship in 1767 
was stolen yesterday and replaced by a Ku Klux Klan calling card. 
The small bronze plaqut·, dedicated only two days earlier, apparent­
ly was pried loose from its concrete bell in the Annapolis City Dock 
sometime in the early morning hours, police Sgt. john Wright said. 
"You have been patronized by the KKK," read a business card !(JUnd 
in its place. The theft was branded "a despicable act" by Gov. Harry 
Hughes. Mayor Richard Hillman said that "when the culprits are ap­
prehended, it would he nice to return to corporal punishment." ­
AP 

Two firefighters plunged 16 floors in the blazing elevator shaft of a highrise oftke tower, and their comrades desperately hacked through walls in a futile attempt to save them from death. Six other firemen and a cleaning woman were injured in the tire Tuesday night at the .38-story Willoughby Tower on Michi­gan Avenue. The bodies ofjoseph Hitz, 56, and Craig L McShane, 2.3, were t(mnd in charred debris atop an empty elevator cage that had plummeted in tlames from the 25th to the ninth when its cables snapped. They were the tlrst Chicago tiremen killed in line of duty since 1978. -AP 
Some airlines are seeking and winning wage concessions and stepped-up productivity promises from their uni­ons as they struggle to recover from their worst year in history. But not all have gone as far as Pan American World Airways, Trans World Airlines and Branift-by actually demanuing that workers accept pay cuts and wage freezes. The Air Transport Association, a trade group, n:ported last wct:k that the controllers strike and the earlier threat of one, in June. had cost the airlines $250 million in lost business and had !(>reed as many as 1--i,OOO layofts_ For some, however, the problems prccecded the Professional Air Traffic Controllers Or­ganization strike, which started in early AugustAP 
Actress Linda EvanShas learned there's truth to the 
adage, "Once bitten, twin: shy_" :\Is_ Evans, who plays Crystal Car­
rington in the ABC-TV series "Dynasty," was rehearsing !(>r the CBS­
TV special "Circus of the Stars" when she was knocked down twice 
and bitten by a leopard. She now sap she won't appear on the show. 
accoruing to her manager. Jay Bernstein. The actress was alone in a 
cage with two leopards. using a whip to coax them to do tricks, when 
one of the animals, a female namcu Sheba, jumpeu on her from be­
hind, knocking her down. When she got up to resume practicing, 
Sheba jumped on the actress again, knocking her Jown and biting 
her on the side just below the shoulder, Bernstein said_ -AP 
Reports by a television station and several newspapers here that Bill Galkgos -one of the 52 American hostages held in Iran -was jobless and strapped for money have brought in several job oft"crs for the former .'v1arine. 1-;.BTV in Denver said three firms had called in to the station to oft"cr positions to (ial­lcgos. 2.3, who had said he would like to work as a security guard. The offers have been forwarded to Gallegos. KBTV spokesman Steve Lewis said. but there was no immediate word on his reaction. Gal­legos has said he has been out of work since he left the :\larines 2 months ago. -AP 
Partly sunny and warmer touay. Highs in the low ""Os. Becoming mostly cloudy tonight with a chance for showers. Low around SO. Good chance f(Jr showers tomorrow. Highs in the low to mid ""()s_ Chance t<Jr rain -tO percent tonightAP 
AP 

Photo File 
0 'CUNNUR ATTt.'.V/JS J1HJJURIAL SERVIO:": 
Sandra O'Connor, recent()' confirmed as the nation's first u•oman Supreme Court justice, talks tl'ith mour­ners at a funeral sen1icefor her uwtber-in-lau•, .VIrs. Sai­l}' O'Connor in Scottsdale, Ariz. 



HAJG TALKS WITH POLISH MINIS­TER: 
U.S. Secretary of State Alexander Haig confers witb Polish Foreign Minister jozef Czyrek in /Veu• York. Tbe meeting empbasized tbe Reagan administration's concern about 

Poland. 
AMBASSADORS RECOMMEND AWACS PLANE: 
Fonner U.S. Ambassadors to Saudi Arabia -from left to right, james Akins, Robert Neuman, john West and Parker Hart -.hold a news con­ference in Washington to recom­
mend the sale of the A WACS radar plane to Saudi Arabia. 

r-The_Ohs.erYer_ IJ<.•signl:'dzlor . ..................... .\1onica (,ugk Oesij!.n .-t:o;sislants ............. Rand~ Rt'IHIH:r Layout .\'Itt}) ........................... <:hri~ Placco Kevin <:anfidU l)•fJesefler. ........................... , ..... .\like .I an~ Veu·s l:"tlitur... . 1:\.clli Flint Copl' /:"tUtors ............. \tar~ I-ran Callahan Tom .\kbhciml'r Features Layout ............... I{J.ndy H.t·mnt:r .\jJort...· Cop)' /:"tlitor. .......... Skip Dl'~jardin (J'jJist .. .Dodcc Carne~ SJ•stems Control .................. Brun: ( >akl<..-y .\"/) /){~J' J:"ditor.. ..................)crt· \l1 maghan \"HC /Ja)' l:"ditw ...................... ( eL"e Balilc~ Ad /Jes(~n ... .fran&. .\lark H.icciutti Photographer. ................... Lind~t ~hanahan (lues/ AfJjJean.oJn•s.. ...... Dong \\on ( l1o1 Dc.:irUrt· \likt· Onman  
The Observer (USPS 598 920) 1s published Monday through Fnday and on home football Saturdays. except dunng exam and vacation penods. The Observer is publtshed by the students of Notre Dame and Satnt Marys Col­lege. Subscnptions may be purchased for $25 per year ($15 per semester) by wnttng The Observer. P.O. Box 0. Notre Dame. Indiana 46556 The Observer ts a member of The Associated Press. All reproduction nghts are reserved. Second class postage patd at Notre Dame. Indiana 46556.  





~ ~,~,~ 
~,

~!~'~ "»
~ ~\...~"" ~ 
15"o Discount to all 

N.D.-S.M.C. Students 



University Park Mall and Town and Country Mishawaka 
'i'he Observer Thursday, September 24, 1981 -page 3 
Escape fails 



Murderer gets life sentence 
'-Al.T l.A~L CIT\' (AI') -Ahl'r a la~t·ditdl nl.·ape attempt failed. <.:on­' ined murderer Jo~eph Paul Franklin was sl'ntenn·d to life in prbon yeMerday by a 5rd Dbtriu' <:ourt jurv whi<.:h ddihnatetl his "t'lllt~nn· for kss than two hours. 
Franklin es<.:aped from deputies at a counhoust· )'t'Stcrday shortly hdilrt· a jury wa~ to dn·ide whetlll'r to ,.,ent<'!Kt: him to death or life. hut ht· ''a" recaptured I'; minutes later 111 an ekvator shaft, authorities said. 
Salt Lake County Sheriff Pete Hayward ,.,aiJ Franklin was ti1und in the shaft near the top of the tive­,.,tory :\ktropolitan Hall of Justice, "here the penaltr pha,.,<.· of hb mur­der trial was under way. 
lla~ ward saiJ Franklin haJ l'"t·apnllrom two transport ofiicer,., and two polK'l' det<Ttives Juring a n-ct·ss in the hearing to <.ktnmine wht·thcr he should he semenced lO lik imprisonm<.·m or death b~ tiring squaJ. 
Franklin, 31. an avowed racist, was convicted Saturday of first­degree murder in tht• ,.,niper shoot­ings of two black jilggers. 
While being hdd for questioning at police headquartt-rs in Flort·nce, ~y., on Sept. 2S, 19HO. Franklin had es<.:apt:d through a t1rst-tloor win­dow when an oltker turned his b;~ck brietly. 
As the court in Salt Lake City was reconvening aft<.'f a I 0-minutt· t'l'n·ss. a bailiff motioneJ urgently to plaindotht·,., otlict·rs seated in front of the pre,.,s row. After watching several plairH.:Iothc,., oftkcr,., Mlmmoncd ti·om the room, repor· Lers quit'kly kft the courtroom. ran downstarrs and ohsern·d a number of law enlilret·nH·nt otllccrs "currY· ing around the outside of the build· ing. 
Finally. sheriffs LL Dean Carr 
nmllrrncd that Franklin was mi,.,sing. 
At kast two dozen sheritfs deputies began combing the build­ing and the area at once. 
Bdorc the rt·cess, the prosccution told the 12-mcmber all-whitt· jury that Franklin does not consider blacks to be human and shows no remorse for his \'ictims. Ted fidds. 20, and D;~vid ,\J;~nin. I H. 
The dosing argument by Deputy Salt Lake County Attorney Robert Stott came after tht· prosccution du.:lined to prt·sent any witnt·sst·s at a penalty hearing ti>r franklin. The ddi:n,.,e prt·sented juM one witness. Franklin'" sister. 
The two blacks wert· guniH'd down Aug. 20, I<JHO, by a sniper "hilc jogging with two young white women ncar Salt L.lkc City's Li!wrn· Park. 
Ticket lotteries· 

S.U. announces new system 
By MOlLY NOLAND .Veu•s Sltlft' 
Thl' SIUdent Union will introduce a new ticket lottery system this Sun­da\· at 7 p.m. <JI Stt·nan <:entt·r for tht· 
Nov. 7 "Fort:ignn" conct·rt. new system will take approximatdy 
Conceived by Student !Inion 50 minutes of tht• student's timt~ Director Bill Lawkr, the new pron:-The.: plan, which will not affect a durc ti>r obtaining a place in line ti>r student's chances in the lottery. in­tickets ~hould ~ave students hours of volves four steps. waiting. According to Lawler, the First, at 7 p.m., the Studt·nt llnion 
hegins checking I. D.'s and giving out 
numbered tick<.'ts. After students recdve ticket,.,,
Spill causes damage 
they must t·ntt·r Stepan Cl·ntt·r and wait until t·vcryone has a ticket and b inside.


-to space shuttle tiles 
CAPE CA:'IJAVFRAI. Fla. (AI') ­
Work,·rs were in,.,pc..Tting up to 200 
loo~ennl thnmaltik,., on the ~pace 
~hunk l :ulumbia ycMertlay. a~sess­
ing damage trom a propellant spill to 
Lktermim· how long 1he ,.,paeecraft's 
s<.-cond mis~ion must bt· ddaynl. 
\I11ft' 1han 200 of the ,.,pacecraft'~ 
.~ 1.000 ht·at·resbtant tilt·,., wae af 
li.Ttt·d by Tuesday's spill. oftkials of 
til<.' :-.Jational Aeronautics and Space 
AdminiMration said. 
Tlw spill has ddaveJ the .~huttlc's 
st·cond mi~sion at least a Wt'l'k and 
pos,ihlv two beyond the scheduled 
Ott.') date, :\A~A otlicials han· ~aid. 
litH if damage is found inside the.· 
<Talt ami the shuttle ha~ to bt· 
rl'tlloved from the launchpad, 
po.,tpotll'llll'llt could he "in exn·.,~ 
ol a mont'h." ~ail! ,.,luntle operations 
dirt'l'tor (;<.·orgt· l'agt·. 
~l'lliKdy ~pace Ct·nll·r teCh· 
nit·i;uh nllldtKting a "'nitf tt·,.,t" also 
dettTtnl 'apors from the spilled 
propellant in an arc..·a in,.,idc tht· nose 
oltlic ~pan·cralt. 
Page t·,.,timatc..·d that a" man~ a,., 
2'i0 of the trks would have to be 
rcplan·d. 
The tile" protc.:l'l tht· shunk against tht· high temperatures of re­entry into the atmosphere. They arc.: individually sized, tittt·d and bonded onto 7'> pt·rn·nt of the.· orhiter's ex­ternal surfac..·e. 
:\1uch of tht· otha work at the.· 
laund1 compkx was at a standMill at~ 
Project pick-up announced 
All students of Philosophy of An and Rdigion in Art cour,.,t·~ must pick up tinal spriog projt·cts he­tween I0:00 a.m. and -f:50 p.m. frida\·, ~cptembt·r 2 'i. at G-l-f6 l.ibran·. PinT~ not colkctt·d at this time will he disposed of for further information l'all Prot Robert Caponigri at .H2H. 
Once  l'\'lT}'onc  h;~s  a  ticket  
(around  7:.~0  p.m.)  they  may  all  
tcr the "pilL Tht· accident  wa~  caused  by  a  leave rathn than waiting around l(>r the number calling as in the old sys..  

t:tulty ,·alve or a s<.·al on tht· ground tt·m. 
fttding ,.,ystem kading to the scn·it·· ing pand, said :\lark lless, a spokes­Next. Student l 'nion ofticials man li>r till' space tTnter. compiles a random list of ticket 
lks~ said engineer~ wuuld try to numbers and poMs it in l.aFortunl'. do allnt't'l'ssary repair~ at 1he launch Students can check thi,., li,.,t to pad. Pagt· had indicatc..·d Tuc..·sday dt·termine thl'ir place in line in time that if damage was found within the to pick up tickeb. spacetTaft. the whok shullk systt·m would have to be rc.:mo\'l'd from tht· Sll workers will gin· the list to the p;~d ;~nd disa,.,,.,cmblnL Repair work ticket dbtributor, who will scht·duk on the orbiter would then hl' carried a spccitk timc ti >r ~tudcnts to pick out at its hangar. Pal!e "aid. up and pa\ for tickcb. 
Sat day Special!
:t friday and ur 1350 
'tl\J"(9.1 . • • STEAK FOR 2 ..tt.,~lsfl-f· 'lO oz. stR\.O'u"'· fresh h&etable Salad Cart 
, v s,apttti and nMIU• Kometn• Soup. ca.oiui~,;r; sERVED Mon.-Fri. 11 to 2 L T., RESTAlJRANT
TON\: S 
'ti19, Fri. & Sat. 'tillO Open Wed. & Thu~· foods, Cocktails Italian I Amencan 



: FOREIGNER CONCERT ! 
: TICKET LOnERY : 
: Swuloy Sept, 2 7 : : 7 pm Stepan Center :
•
: bring ms : 

······················~········ 
Check out the NAZZ on its very special open stage night 
Thursday, Sept. 24 9:00 to II:00 pm 
Fri Sept 25 Tom Kovacevic 10-11:30 pm Sat Sept 26 Paul Kosidowski 9-10:15 pm Mike Daly 
10:30 -? no admission char~e 

Carol Cenci ofPastfUerilla lf'esl ( aboi'e. center) turns ot•era nell' leafat tbe plant sale in LaFortune. (photo b)• Linda Sbanabtm} 
Off-Campus Masses 
every Sunday -Bulla Shed-7:30pm Campus View-11:00 pm 54631 Irish Way-Apt. 206 
·' ·:·~,,~. ': ;i • All WELCOME 
~-~..;;~~~ ~.~ 
~~~ i.:' :_~ ~-~ '¢. ~ 
··':.:.~. -~;. -r~' 









Cantmakeup your 
. . 
. 


mindat 
J..,...~.....~~\: 
.-~¢0ff.;hateVU"YOiid~cld;~:
I ~ " 
IIavin)( trouble making up your mind is understandable.•I '-'~1{'Z ~ Whik other places give: you a few choices, we have over a _.,/j lJ(JZt:n. From Mexican favorites like burritos and enchiladas to I ~'IJJf)) the mon: American taco burger and taco salad. But whatever
I 1 
I 
~ ~ .. ,'· you decide on, you'll save: <I with this coupon at participating1 4; l . ·, ?::·oJohn's TACO JOHN·s. 1 
l_f.,);A ' ~~ More thanjusttacos.
11!JJ?.. ~ :'\orth lrunwoud l.a~&:ulnwOly Wc~l L:.s. ;\ 1 I 
~ ~ Suuth Hc.·nc.J .\11!thawotk;, :\'ilc!'l
I Limil one coupon per cuMomcr per vt~lt ( lixparc~ I 0· I 0-~ 1)I-------------------· ~ 
The Observer ... Thursday, September 24, 1981 -page 4 
• • • ADiish 
For further infonnation Write: Father Andre Leveille. CSC Box 541 Notre Dame. Indiana 46556 
continuedfrom page 1 

They don't watch television, listen to radios or usc 
telephones. 

Most Amish don't want to break with tradition. 
Asked if she would ever like to drive a car, Ruth Ann Hilty, 18, shakes her head emphatically. "I would probably demolish it and hurt myself," she says. "I would rather drive a buggy, if the horse isn't too wild." 
Her sister, Wilma, 21, says she cannot imagine living more than a buggy ride away from her family: "being together at the end ofthe day is the best thing about the way we live." 
Some do reject their religion and leave their homes, but their number is few, the Amish say. 
"Some Amish leave our community and come back driving Cadillics," says Samuel Hilty, a carpenter who lives near Berne. "I myself like to go to airports and watch the planes take off. But those who leave us are never as happy as they were here with their families." 
The Amish "were kicked around in Europe and adopted a passive approach," Stroup explains. "They see themselves as an example, a shining light in the community. But they withdraw from the community, and believe lines must be drawn." 
They can't, however, escape financial competition 
with the society around them. Most Amish are farmers or carpenters and must market their products against those produ'--ed.with the help of modern machinery. 

"Technology is tough to battle. and it's become tougher in the last I'; years." Stroup says. "The Amish are aware of this. They can see these:: things going on around them. They have pondered the questipn of whether to make a break and usc some modern tools. So far, they've decided against it. 
"They may be able to continue like this indefinitely because they are very good at adjusting," Stroup said. "But a high percentage of the Amish live close to or below the official poverty level." 
For thos~ Indiana Amish farmers living near that level now, this winter may be particularly hard. Indiana farmlands were ravaged by floods this spring, destroy­ing acres ofcrops. 
Many counties in the state have been made eligible for federal aid, but Dale Redding, a Department of Agriculture extension farm agent in LaGrange Count\'. says he doubts the Amish will make use of that govern­ment help. 
"I've already talked with one farmer about it," he says. "But I'd be surprised if any of them come in and fill out the applications." 
Mrs. Schwartz, whose husband was not able to raise enough corn this year even to feed their hogs. knows it will be a tough winter. 
• • Talks
• 
continuedfrom page 1 
that they were meeting at all was im­
portant in itself. The two men were 
scheduled to meet here again. next 
Monday. 
Each side accused the other Tues­
day of trying to achieve military su­
periority and warned that the other 
would not get away with it. 
But hoth sides also indicated a wil­
lingness to talk. Reagan said in his 
letter to BrezhneY he hoped for a 
"framework of mutual respect" with 
the Soviets based on the recognition 
ofthe legitimate interests ofhoth na­
tions. 
Gromyko said the Soviets wanted "busines~like" relations with the United States. in a speech that was otherwise tilled v.:ith denunciations of the Reagan administration·~ foreign policy. 
Cheysson also said he was en­
couraged that llaig stressed North­
South economic issues in his speech 
to the assemhly on :\londay. rather 
than focusing on the li.S.-~oviet 
rivalry. Haig did say the Soviet and 
Vietnamese intervention in Af­
ghanistan and Cambodia was a 
threat to the peace ofall nations. 
• • • Burt 
continuedfrompage I 
SS <; million a year is lost to toll fraud. Credit card calls are just one aspect," said DeLong. 
Rumors also circulated that Burt Reynolds had made his number puhlic on "'BC's Tonight Shou·. but Joe Bleetlan. puhlicist for the show called such rumors "incorrect and false... saving ··we don't talk ahout that c--· on our show." 
71Je .Yeu· }'ork Times also tkmed printing the story. Summanzctl lkLong,"Peopll-who arc doing this could not possihh· helinT that thh thing is truc. They rna,· he ltahlt-lor paving it. and ma\· he rcponsihlc tor 
their actions·· 

NEEDLES 

&.PINS 
•Alterations •Mending 

mtr~utml\ DENZElWASHINGTBN·!PAULWINF1ELDI•mrecturat p~~ot4ifal*r fRED J. KO£NEKAMP.u.c.•Ml!Sit ny BillCONTI 
becutivtPriJducerJOHN OALY·Prodll(edby CART£R De HAVEN an11STANLEV SHAPIRO·writtenby STANLEY SHAPIRO 
•Custom Sewing
(ZIPPERS REPLACED)

Directed by MICHAEL SCHULTZ•AfiRST CITY FILM Prhtti By Cfl ~~~~~ \~L=.=~"!: l 
Phyllis Gar*ee 

-:-941' oi.IIC(l EMI!IA.SS~ f'TCTuRES COAl' 
Tt~~1 607 Geyer Ave {t~-1' Mishawaka


Opening soon at a theater near you. 
"255-7793 CALL FOR APPOINTMENT 


1'he Observer Thursday, September 24, 1981 -page 5 
13';billion 


Weinberger outlines defense cuts 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Defense 
Secretary Caspar \'\'t:inberger said 
yesterday S13 billion is "the maxi­
mum" that can be cut from the 
military budget during the next 
three years without impairing a 
planned arms buildup. 
"These cuts arc getting into vitally 
needed areas," he told the House 
Budget Committee. 
However, Sen. Nancy Landon Kas­
sebaum, R-Kan., issued a statement 
later saying she found the secretary's 
arguments "lt:ss than compdling." 
She said she will seek a three-year 
military spending reduction "in the 
range of .S20 billion to S25 billion" 
rather than the president's recom­
mcndcd cut of SI3 billion over 
three years. 
Wt:inbcrgcr gavc fcw details in outlining the s13 billion in cuts recommended by Prcsidcnt Reagan and said the administration remains "fully committed" to upgrading U.S. 
military might. 
Hc said there has bt-en "no change whatevcr in the Soviet threat" and stressed the administration "will work steadily on expanding our capabilities for deterring or prosc:t·uting a global war with the Soviet Union." 
The cuts Wdnbc:rger outlined wt·re spread across the Army, Navy and Air Force. However, he gave few details on how much would be savnl on individual programs and spokesmcn for thc three services said they had no further details. 
Major actions proposcd by the secrt·tary included: 
·-Putting the 7th Infantry Division at Fort Ord, Calif., on "cadre" status in list·al 19H3, meaning its force would he cut from I 5,000 to 5,000. \'\'t:inberger said, however, that 
St. Mary's schedules 
• 

cappmg 
A :\1ass and capping ceremony 
will be hdd for -ll nursing majors at 
Saint Mary's College Saturday, Sep­
sincc the nursing program was 
reinstituted at Sailll Mary's in 1973. 
will he hcld at 6 p.m. in the Church 
of Lort·tta on the Saint :\1ary's 
campus. 
The Mass and ceremony are for 
junior nursing majors who are ready 
to begin their clinical practice in the 
community. Students will work at St. 
Joscph's Hospital, thc Visiting 
Nurses Association, .\kmorial 
Hospital, and various othcr health services. 






dukE 
University 

A representative of the Institute of Policy Sciences will be on campus 
Wednesday, October 14, 1981, to discuss the Duke master's program in Public Pol.icy Studies. Interested students may obtain further information by contacting the Placement Office 

these savings might be achieved planned. Also retired would be all 52 
through "similar changes to other of the Air Force's Titan II nuclear 
units in the United States." missiles, leaving the st:rvice with 
--Saving S.l billion by slowing a I,000 long-range Minute-man 
planned increase in ammunition nuclear missiles. 
stockpilc:s. --Slowing by two years a planned 
--Cutting by 11 the number of manpower buildup in the Air Force. 
ships to be built, retiring other vc:s­The: administration's March budget 
sels earlier than c:xpected, and called for increasing the Air Force in 
cancelling plans to reactivate the tlscal 1982 by 17,800 military per­
aircraft carrier Oriskany. sonnt:l and 3,600 civilians. 
--Canceling a program for a Weinberger stressed that the 
military cargo aircraft and curtailing spending decreases wt:re being 
construction offighter jc:ts as well as made not for military reasons but in 
retiring B-52 bombers earlier than ln effort to cut the federal budget. 
r--~--~--~-~~-~~-------------.-.....j
COme OUt for an evening Of rhythm & blues t0 th ( h · L 
e. autauqua a Fortune Club 
frfday, sept 25 Larry and the Lady Killers 9:00 
. . 
admission J2.00 
~~:···············: 



················•;u 
SEE THE IRISH AT PURDUE GO HERTZ FllOM $15.99 A DAY 
;hese Economy Fares are 
Touring Rates, subject to change without notice and non-discountable.· 
There are no minimum day and advance reservation requirements, but 
restrictions on wheG and where cars must be returned. Gas is not 
included. CaJJ Hertz for details. ~ 
234-3712 at Airport 
=

WHERE WINNERS RENT.
232-5871 Downtown 
HERTZ RENTS FORDS AND OTHER FINE CARS 

th€ n·O· PR€-laW SOCiety 
IS Still acceptinG memBeRshiP appt1cat1ons· 
bu€s $3.00 s1qn up m 101 o'shaq · b€abllnt Oct. 1 



lll1JI?S[)4' fll()flJ fll.. SII?IIS 
Thursday, September 24 

Out of the Paat RKO 1947 (97 min.) Jacques Tourneur directed this definitive film noir with Robert Mitchum as the hard-boiled detective, Jane Greer the femme fatale, young Kirk Douglas the ice-cold gangster. Cinematography by Nicholas Musuraca. 


laJ() ()ITl ~IJSIIJ~ {)I 41?1 S()()IIS()It?e.J ~l tilt: Cle.JrnlsSI()Il ~1.()() ~[) S~( ({)~.~IJ~I(411{)~ ~ 1111411?1 
COPP MUSIC CENTER INC 
430 N. Main So. Bend 133-1838 Take 31 South, turn right one block past Memorial Hospital 
eGuitars eHarmonicas eMetronomes eBanjos Accessories eLessons 
•Recorders esheet musiceRepairs 
10% off anything with this 

I, , J 

ad•••no 1m1t • 
N.D. PARTY HEADQUARTERS 

PHONE 277-3611 


Castillo Rum 1 Liter...................$5.79 

Kamchatka Vodka 1 Liter....................$4.81 
Barclays Bourbon 1 Liter....................$5.99 
Calvert's Extra Soft Whiskey 750 mi.................. $4.99 
-Pabst Blue Ribbon 1 case of Qts•.......$8.49 
for disco-unts call]ohn Lock~ 277-3611 



Features 

Thursday, September 24, 1981 -page 6 
Save It For A Rainy Day 
few neatly stored screens and the oil one around someday and see how an empty wooden nail keg. That's 
them our for anything.

Andy Rooney 

burner. they live. I bet they don't do any­how dumb you Neat People are. I, on 
.\1y wife says the old bookcase 

I fed toward neat people the same thing, that's how they keep every­the other hand, have been ready 
took out of the twins' room in 1973 

way I used to feel toward the thing so neat. They probably do all with an empty nail keg for the past 
should be thrown our. She gets a 

brightest kid in our class who was sorts of dumb stuff like putting twenty years. That's about how long 
little ncar every once in a while her­

also a good athlete and handsome. things back where they belong. it's been in the cellar, right there in 
self Thank goodness that never hap­

My dislike for the tidies of the They probably know which shelf the way if I ever need it. 
pens to me. That's why I still have 

world is particularly strong this everything is on in the refrigerator; You probably throw out broken 
the bookcase.
:\~eat people are small, petty, nit­

week because I realized Sunday that they could probably put their finger plates and glass pitchers that can't be 
We have four children and I'm not

picking individuals who keep ac­my desk is such a mess that I can't on the nozzle to the garden hose. repaired, don't you? Tell the truth. I 
saving much money, but should I
curate checkbooks, get ahead in lift: 

find anything, and my workshop What do you do with all that stuffI don't. I keep broken plates because I 
ever die. I'd like to leave the kids
and keep their cellars, their attics. 

looks like a triple-decker club have cluttering my cellar, neat can't stand to throw them out. I'm 
something. I have nineteen cans of
and tht:ir garages fret: of trt:asured 

sandwich with tools on top of wood people? Did you throw away the waiting for them to make glue that 
partly used paint, some dating from
possessions. They just don't seem to 

on top of plans on top of sandpaper hammer with the broken handle? will really mend china and glass the 
the late '50s in the cellar. I don't

treasure anything, those neat on top of tools on top of wood. If I Mine is still down there. way the ads say the glue will now. 
want them fighting over my estate

people. If they can't use it or freeze need a Phillips screwdriver, it's What about the twenty feet ofleft­Many years ago a man who owned 
when I go, so I think I'll make a will
it. they throw it away. I detest neat 

easier to go out and buy a new one over aerial wire and the small empty a hairbrush factory gave me a bushel 
and divide the paint among them. I
people. I was in a neat person's 

than to find any ofthe three I already wooden nail keg? Don't tell me you basket of odds and ends of 
want it to have a good home. I'm not
home several weeks ago and he took 

own. were so heartless that you tossed rosewood. They're beautiful little 
sure of the girls, but I know I can 
me down into his cellar. He must be 

How do neat people do it? I hate that out. You don't even appreciate pieces and I've never figured out 
depend on Brian to keep the paint in
making a dishonest living because 

them so much I don't want any help the fact that you never know when what to do with them but I wouldn't 
his cellar. He's messy after my own
there was nothing down there but a 

from them, but I would like to follow you're going to have a good use for neaten up my cellar by throwing 
heart. 
•
~cia! Concern Film Series • 
Editor's Note: The following image of Australians, who arc opposes executing Boer prisoners analysis written by Professor Gene regarded as uncivilized outlanders. and lying in court despite Bern.stein deals with the last ofthe But as an aide to Lord Kitchcner overwhelming evidence that the Social Concerns films -"Breaker wryly notes, Morant and Hancock British hierarchy condones the for­Morant." Thefirst film, "Something will hardly prize these victories of mer and, even under oath, practices Beautiful for God", documented diplomacy and public relations the latter. Mother Theresa's work with the respectively. As we are shown both sides of poor. "To Kill a Mockingbird" dealt Neither will viewers of the film. their characters, so too we arc with the issue ofracial prejudice in Director Bruce Beresford never lets shown both sides of the complex a small southern town. "Hospital" us forget the travesty of justice and war. When, for example, Captain concerned itself social respon­morality we are witnessing, nor the Hunt leads the raid that results in his sibility, and "War Without Win­humanity of these sacrificial victims. death, the loyalty ofthe native scout ners" may best be described as an Though the film moves along briskly and Boer translator is calkd into anti-warfilm. "Breaker Morant"­because of cuts from court room to question. Yet shortly thereafter we which will be shown tonight, countryside action, from long shot see British officers at an opulent Friday and Saturday -concludes to dose, from low angle to high, meal dining with and being enter­this distinguished series ofthought­Beresford is careful to pause long tained by other Boers. provoking c:inematic efforts. enough to make Mora~. Hancock Or again, in cuts from the court 
and Witten come alive. room to the battlefield, Beresford 
As he is being led to his execution The very genuine humanity of visually juxtaposes the sterile, by firing squad, Harry "Breaker" these characters is brought out abstract rules ofwar, martial justice, Morant waves off a minister and through flashbacks and dreams and military hierarchy to the lush if claims he is a pagan, despite having (which parallel the cuts to the battle treacherous countryside where previously recollected Sunday Bible t1dd) as well as in the casting itself. "right" and "wrong" are not so easi­reading sessions with his !amily. Fel­Actor Edward Woodward is ex­ly, nor so perfidiously ajudicated. If low prisoner Peter Hancock, ig­quisite as the regal, exacting, poetic, strong, realistic characterization norant ofthe term, is told by Morant even Byronic Morant. Likewise Jack through close-ups and flashbacks is 
that: "A pagan is one who does not Thompson has just the right rugged, one great asset of this film, the un­believe in a Divine Being above darkly handsome face to play the flinching look at the complexities of dispensing justice in this world." simple, hot-blooded and sensual the situaion is certainly another. Hancock quickly acknowledges that Hancock. And so too does Bryan Tragic though the loss of lives al­he too is a pagan. Viewers of Brown have the perfectly youthful ways is, however, the film itself "Breaker Morant" might well share face to capture his innocent sense of focuses upon and is structured that faithlessness in justice, Divine family, country and empire. around the court martial proceed­or otherwise, so powerful and They arc real men, with both gal­ings. American audiences cannot convincing is the film. lantry and foibles, and thus we fed help but think of the trial of Lt. Wil­
Morant and Hancock's paganism the poignancy, indeed tragedy, of liam Calley for the My Lai massacre. 
evolves from their belated realiza­their situation all the more. For all In Vietnam, as in tht: Boer War, "the tion that they are scapegoats of the their skill at war and loyalty to the gentleman's war is over." More British Empire, sacrifices on the altar Crown, Beresford wisely lets us specitkally, as the defense attorney of Anglo-German relations. Tht: know that Hancock joined the Bush­pleads in his dosing argument, "the court martial and execution ofthese ville Carboneers because he was un­atrocities of war are not committed two hapless Australians by the employed at home and became by abnormal men, but by normal British, as well as the life sentence of unfaithful in Transvaal. And that the men in abnormal situations." a third, is but a "sideshow of the noble Morant can succumb to the What is finally on trial in "Breaker (Boer) war" intended to prevent desire for vengeance after seeing his Morant," as it is to a certain extent in Germany from entering on the side brother-in-law-to-be's mutilated "To Kill a Mockingbird," is not so 
of the Boers and to improve the body, while the naive Witten much individuals but justict: itself 
Rock Trivia Quiz No, 3 
The answers to last wct·k's quiz,  Originally the Blue Velvets, later the  Alive")  
dealing with tlops before big careers  Golliwogs ­ Creedcm.:e Clearwater  :3. Hugh Masekda ("Grazing in the  
got rolling, arc as ti>llows:  Revival; 8. One hit single in six years  Grass")  
I. First single had wrong name,  of trying, then the seventh LP hit big  -i. Jackson Browne  
second one had name spelled wrong  - Styx;  9. Took  eleven  albums  5. Stars  On  -±5  (they  did  that  
-The Bcatlcs; 2. First five -i5s failed  before  national  success  - RliO  Beatles medley this summer)  
to make charts while one was a very  Speedwagon;  I0.  Took  l.f albums  6. Abba  
big country hit  -Elvis Presley; 3.  before great American  success  - 7. John Kay (lead singer of Stcp­ 
First two -!5s released on Stedtown  Fleetwood Mac.  pcnwolf)  
Records ­ TheJackson Five; 4. First  This week's quiz has to do with  8. Freddy :\1crcury (lead singer of  
LP bombed, two singles from it did  rock and/or pop stars of unusual  Queen)  
likewise,  no  singles  even  released  nationality.  Most  artists  art·  trom  9. Gordon Lightfoot  
from  second  LP  Bruce  either the United States or Britain.  I0. Bob :VIarlcy and the \\'ailers  
'>pringstcen; 5. Most of his tirst three  but none of these ten are.  Identify  A small hint: no two of the above arc  
years of British records not released  the country from which each of the  from the same country.  
here-Elton John; 6. First American  below came.  

~ingle taken off the market because I. The Singing Nun (of of~uppo~ed drug references in an in­"Dominique" fame) 


Tim Neely
~trumcntal -The Rolling Stones; 7. 2. Patri<.:k Hernandez (.. Born to Be 


'Breaker Morant 
In the cold, stt:rile comfort of court man missionary was killed. rooms and even living rooms, how Such ignoble, unjust, unchristian can we judge the actions of those behavior took place at the Boer War who must act out of sdf-ddense or and My Lai court martials, and per­
for the military expediency their su­haps it does so now and here at periors demand but will not defend? Notre Dame, particularly in the ex­
The ultimate victim is justice it­pedient out-of-court settlement of self The concept becomes as barren the Frese sex-discrimination suit. In and hollow as the court room in all three cases the Machiavellian which it is prostituted to political legal maneuvering sacrifices justice expediency and public relations. in a ritual which mocks the very con­When the institutions entrusted cept it upholds. "Breaker Morant" 
with upholding justice are willing to closes with a slow, long shot of corrupt it, so too do the innocent Morant and Hancock being ex­victims, as Hancock must when he ecuted against a brilliant rising sun, swears he was "entertaining" two but it is really a rather dark moment Boer women the afternoon the Ger-when justice itselfis a scapegoat. 
Pavlova Celebration highlights weekend 
and the Ladykillers. If they can giveDeidre Grant all of that to you for only S2 they're bound to be very talented. The following events are available to you on both Friday and Saturday
Weekend 

nights, but only for a price. I already know that about half of the male Once again Thursday rolls around 
population on this campus has and the weeke:1d begins for most 
skipped to the next paragraph. The students at Notre Damt: and Saint 
film, "Breaker Morant" shows its Mary's. I'm really looking forward to 
final two days in the Annenberg some future years when I can wake 
Auditorium in Snite Museum at 7 up and on any particular day of the 
and 9:30. East year's award winning week start the weekend. Luckily 
movie ''Ordinary People" is showing stories from last weekend such as 
in the Engineering Building at 7, sleeping on a curb up in Michigan, 
9:1 5 and 1 1:30. This movie deals climbing an eighteen foot barb-wire 
with the delicate subject of a fence to see Anthony Carter score, 
teenage boy and his difficulty and Regina Hall computer (ditch-a­
dealing with his brother's death and date) night, have been enough to 
his family. Fans ofChicago's popular help me survive yet another week. 
comedy group Second City will find On Thursday night Saint Mary's is two performances at Century Cen­proudly presenting The Pavlova 
ter. Friday night is student discount Celebration. The evening promises a 
night with tickets for S6. The show re-creation of performances 
starts at 8 p.m. in the Bendix previously done by Anna Pavlova 
Theater. Saturday's show is at 9 p.m. during the early part of this century. 
in the Convention Hall. If you're Starr Danias,who starred opposite 
really up for a big night on the town, Mikhail Baryshnikov in The Turning 
for S20 you can get cocktails at 7 Point, will head the troupe 
p.m., dinner and the show! (I'm composed of many dancers from the 
accepting offers until Saturday at Joffrey Ballet. The "celebration" 6:55.) begins at 8 p.m. in O'Laughlin 
The tootball team travels to Auditorium. There are a limited Purdue still looking for victory num­number oftickets left for Thursday's 
ber two. Corby's is having performance. 
Gametime Specials, and they Ifyou have a different idea ofhow 
probably hav~ a lot left over trom you'd like to start your weekend off, 
last Saturday afternoon. Saint Mary's Corby's is having a Heincken Night, 
Volleyball Invitational will be going tht: Senior Class has tentatively 
on in Angela Athletic Facility start­planned a bonfire on Greenfield, 
ing at 9:00. Also on Saturday evening Sorin takes on Dillon at 8 p.m. in an 
is an event that honors the Saint interhall soccer battle on Cartier 
Mary's junior nursing majors. The Field, and freshmen will !:>e studying 
Church ofLoretto will be the sight of for Emil. 
the beautiful :\'urses Capping Friday night at 9:00 the 
Ceremony at 6 p.m. Chautaugua LaFortune Club 
There's lots going on. so rt·mem­presents a "funk, soul. rhythm. 
ber. weekends were made for having blues" band by the name of Larry fun. 
-~-~---~---------­



Editorials 

Thursday, September 24, 1981 -page 7 
Selling AWACS to Saudis 
!won't hurt U.S. interests 
I ~.:e, in th.: AWAC~ for Saudi Arabia. a long anu tangled shadow llf 

Wllliom F. Buckley
symboli~m. and that is a pity. 
lk~.:ausc, upon rdlection -and this i~ written by somconc whosc ..:riticisms of Saudi Arabia arc on th..: On the Right r.:~·ord -Congr.:ss should authoriz~ 
the way of Iran-the loss would be H.:r~.: arc th~o: salient ,·on~id.:ra­irrcparabic. Wrong. Th~.: softwan: is tions: 
th~.: ~ate. 
dc~igned amund cod~.:s that could be 
I. Do we desire that Saudi Arabia d~o:ciphcrcd overnight. should have the information it would 
You see-and here the sales tak is best said in a whisper -th~.: Saudi
get by Jh~.: us~.: of th.: A WAC? 
2. h the security of Israel AWAC~ havc to do not only with the threatened by the A WACs? 
security of thc Saudi oil fields, but ~. Is th.: prestigc of thc Unitcd with our comprehcnsive presence in States govcrnment jeopardized by a 
the area. The A WACs art: vicwed ·efusalto sell the A WACs'! 
primarily as an instrument for the 

JM HELMS AND THE TRULY NEEDY
presentation of the Saudis· trcasures, Ycs. No and Yes-then we should 
If the answers to the above are 
but also as an adjunct of our own in­go through with tht• proposed deal. telligence. If the Sovict Union In geopolitical terms, Saudi 
elected to pounce on Sauui Arabia, it Arabia is important as the principal 
would not be thc Saudis alone who 


P.O. Box Q
could deter it. Our prcsence would be reserves need to be protected as ob­
source of western oil reservcs. These indispensable. But a technical and ACC. Some arc coming hcrc," he 

empirical evidencc. The work­viously as we need to protect the 
military cooperation between the saiJ solemnly as his eyes glistened.

Domers impress disincentive cffccts of welfare arc notUnited Stat.:s and the Saudis must beeconomic life of our allies. As things Words came hard. A lady rush~.:d for­significant. Neither is it true that now stand, the Saudis would receive exactly that, a cooperation that pre­ward with a hu!!c. !!rccn styrofoam 
ec·onomic growth is the panacea for two to four minutes' warning from 
emps the Saudis' alternative. Which 

Tigerfan NO hat and off~rcd 'it to hm amidst 
poverty. as the bcncfits of economic the land-based Saudi radar installa­
is, quite simply, to turn to th.: Soviet rising applause. but he saiJ. "You 

growth arc not nccessarily dis­tions in the event the Soviet Union Union. 
k.:ep it." 
tributed evcnly. How ideologically
Dear Editor: 
decided to cripple Saudi oil facilities, Mr. Begin cannot seriously The packcJ crowd intensified their convenient for conservatives like

I recently had the opponunity to
believe that the United States is goingwhich arc congested in a small area appreciation abov.: any funhcr Cochran (and more famous types like 

visit your campus to sec thc LSU­
to risk the security of Israel. He isof the kingdom. With A WACs on speech. With bowcJ head anJ slight­George Gilder) to overlook this. 


Notre Dame football game. Whilc
playing symbolic stakes. And so areduty, this critical interval rises to 15 ly bent shoulder he walkcJ to his car. 

Ben Clements 
the game did not turn out as I had
a number of congressmen andminutes, during which Saudi applause acwmpanying him. 

South Bent! 
hoped-I'm an LSU alumnus and
senators. Begin wants to prove to hisairplanes -and its allies -can get We hope his (anJ the team) hcarJ 

die-hard Tiger fan -I was very
people that for any deal in the Middl~launched in order to prove cover for 

our suppo11 a~ he drove out of si!!ht. East involving another powr, he is in 
impressed with the class of the Notrc Evcrybouy cheers a victor' butthe tlclds. 

Dame fans. I wore an LSU t-shin Immaturea position to veto. The congressmen Now if that were the whole of the loyalty is shown in defeat. 
and LSU coach's cap but did not hear
wish to register that no conceivableproblem, presumably the Congress 
Bro. Richard Roesch 

a single put-down or insult all day Domersopponents running for public officewould vote overwhelmingly for the 
Brmrn.wm Hall 
which was directed at mc. This in­

can outdo the incumbents in servility cluded walking around campus prior ruin sundaesale. But critics argue the offensive 
1 t .:apability of these A WACs in to Mr. Begin. 

to the game, sitting in a Notre Damc Evidence doesn,t
It is not right. The haunting part of More mystery, it would seem, at­it is that it isn't right for Israel, 
1 respect of lsrae I. 

section, and a couple of hours drink­dinner atSouth taches to the A WACs in question either. Because the strength of the 
ing at the Senior Bar/ Alumni Club support attack after thc gamc. Evcrybody wasAmerican presence in the area is thethan is reasonable. They arc in one 
Dear Editor: 
friendly and generally quite com­
principal sourc~ of lsracli sccurity.
sense formidable intelligence gat­on programs This letter is addressed to the

plimentary of LSU's team. I must
herers. but there is a definite limit to Mr. Eugenc Rostow. than wom no young (as in immature) men who 

say that you Irish have the class to go
stauncher fri~nd of Israel was everwhat they can accomplish. They arc. 

Dear t.'diwr: positioned themselves in the "Make
along with your great football tradi­
brcd, is (thankfully) in charge ofafter all, Boeing 707s. Their radars It is always a hit amusing to sec a Your Own Sundae" area of the South tion.

were designed somctimc in the early arms control programs for th.: 

political conservative like Andrew Dining Hall Sunday evening,
However, I would like to warn
'60~. Their computers, though adc­Rcagan administration. His Cochran suggest how best we can im­wearing the !-shirts proclaiming "No 

you that the Tigers will be ready
wholchcartcd backing of the A WAC yuatc, are only a statc or two morc prove our economic system for the Fat Girls" above a not-too-tlattering

when the Irish visit Baton Rouge in
dcal deserves considerabk n:spcct.
refincd than the kind of thing you can poor ('"Reaganomics the rcmcuy to drawing of a "fat girl."

1983. We all know what happencd
Senator Packwood, who is hcadingIget at Radio s.hac k. . . 

Great Society damage.·· Sept. 16). a I suppose they thought they were
the last time you entered the Tigers'
the opposition, wears anoth.:r hat: hc, What IS ol course spec1al 1s the social group he most probably is not a funny, adding a little spice to our

den-history may be repeated!
is in charge ofthc Rcpublican Scnatc ~oft ware, and s\Jmc critics claim that member of anJ probably not well ac­otherwise Jull lives, and perhaps

Charlie Dorman 
Rc-elcction Committcc. Gentlemen.
it the airplanes fell into enemy hands 

quainted with. even doing some of us a favor. Per­
Cedar Rapids, lmm
please behave.
-if Saudi Arabia were to go, say, 

Cochran argues that ~incc we still haps, from their point of view. havc economic inequality anJ It would be ridiculous for me to powny amongst u~. whik employ­utilize that whole artillery of' "typical
Faust Fever ing Great Society aid programs, that Notre Dame male" jargon that we these programs arc not only ind­employ in situations such as these. Itundiminished fcctivc in battling povelly anJ inc-wasn"t such a major incident in the 4uality hut arc in fact contributing whole scheme of things to justify my
byfirst loss causes to them. Neculess to say he getting all bent out of shape. 
fallaciously assumes simpk correla­However, I would like them to Dear Ediwr: tion implies causality. think about one thing; that is, they Everybody cheers a winner but a Do.:s Cochran r~.:ally think that probably hull a few people in pursu­removing program~ designed to al­ing their own amusement. I know
loser has few followers. Saturuay night, atier our dcfcat at 

leviate povcny is the way to people who arc very self-conscious eliminate it? Will the poor, suddenly of their appearance, who eat very
Michigan, there were few followers 

··unchained" from their ··economic little (dangerously little, even)
for the returning team at th~o: main circle. We waited long-very long. 

slavery" (Cochran's terms to the throughout the wcek, and treat them­Th~.:n unexpectedly ap­
welfare system immediately go out selves once in a while. Anybody so and gct computer programming jobs treating themselves on Sunday eve­
plause broke into our conversation~. with IBM? A more probable vision is ning did not need to be reminded
Faccs turncJ, applause rose. A lone 

figure walkcJ resolutely, bowed, toward the nowJ hunurcd. Applause mountcu. 
They recognized Coach Fau~t. Clapping ros.: still "Ger-ry. Ger-ry." 
·'They lcti the team off 
head of one 
Gerry more. 
at the afforded by the cxpcricm:c of England this past summer. where ..:onservativc c..:onomi<.: poli..:ics con­tributed to the so~.:ialtensions that led to the race rioh. 

The basi..: problem with Cochran's argument is that it is not ~upportcd by once again of how our society sings lhl! praises {)f the thin. This "amusement" may have been a..:­hicvcd at the expense of someone' s self-esteem. 
Hope it was worth the laugh. 
Name Withheld 


Editorial Board and Department Managers 
t:ditor·in·Chief................... .....................John McGrath .\MCExecutive Editor ..................... Mary Agm:s Carey 
Box Q, Nom: Dame, iN 4!J55!J 

.IJunaRing Editor ......................................Tom Jackman !>MC News Editor ................................Cathy Domanico
The Obsert,er is an independent newspaper published b\ the -,tudent" ol rht· 

Exec·utive .Vews Editor .............................. Lynne Daley Photo Editor...................................................john Macor Unrversny of Notre Dame du Lac and Sam~ !\tar\'' s College. It doo not nne..,..,;mh 
Nercs Editor .............................................Tim Ven.:cllolti rdlect the poltctes of the admtntstrauun ot en her Institution The new" j-, reporrnl J'•ieu•s Editor .......................................................Kclli flint Business Manager .................................... Rich Coppola 
as accurate!~· an_d as obJeCtively as posstble: Ednonal~ repre-,ent the op1111on of a Senior Copy Editor ........................ Mary Fran Callahan Controller........................................................joe Multlur 
m.aJortty of the Edt tonal Board. Commenranes, opmion~. and ktter.., are rhe \ 1ew" Sports Editor .........................................Michad Ortman Advertising Manager......................................Mark Ellis Features Editor ....................................Anthony Walton Production Manager.............................. Michael Monk
ot thetr authors.Colu:nn space is available to all member~ of the uln1n1Uillt\. and Circulation Manager ................. ......Tom MacLennan
the tree expresston ot varying opintons un ,ampu-,. rhrough letter~. I'-etllouraged. 


~j1(),-tS~lJ~~~i=~~~~S~~==~~============~=====T=h=u=rs=da=y~,S=e=pt=e~m=be=r=2=4,=1=9=8l===p=ag=e~8
by The Uhserwr and The A_rrociated Prnr 
Novice fencers arc reminded they have a meeting schcdukd for tonight at 'p.m. in tht: ft:ncing gym abovc Gate 4 of tht: ACC. -The Observer 
A softball game bt:twt:en the Notre Dame basketball team and coachcs and mcmbers of tht: local mcdia will bt: ht:ld this Sunday at 3:30 on Jakt: Kline field. There is no admission charge, but donations will bt: acccpted. Procet:ds from tht: cvcnt will go toward The Observer's Landon Turner fund. Turncr is tht: Indiana Univt:rsity basketball playcr paralyzcd in an automobile accidt:nt this summcr. ­
The Observer 
The Notre Dame soccer team is fit w be tit:d. 
For thc second timt: in as many games, tht: Irish were extcndt:d to two overtime pt:riods last night, only to come away with a 2-2 tit:, this time at Whcaton Collegc in Illinois. Notrt: Dame, now 5-0-2 on tht: year, battlt:d to a 2-2.dc:adlock at Ohio Statt: Sunday. Last night, junior for­ward Mario Manta scort:d twict: in a four-minutt: pt:riod to give tht: Irish a 2-0 t1rst half lead. Twenty minutes into tht: second half, Notre Damt:'s sophomorc fullback Joe Holterman rcceivt:d a rc:d card for obsccnities and tht: Irish were forced to play ont: man short for the final 4<; minutcs of play. The Irish wcrt: chargcd with 41 fouls during tht: contest whilt: Wheaton was called only 16 timt:s. Wht:aton out· shot the visitors, 18-13. Notte Damt:'s next game is tomorrow night at Dayton. -The Observer 



Classifieds 
AMERICAN LEAGUE

BASEBALL FOOTBALL 

East W L Pet. GB Second Hall Detroit 26 17 .605 
NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE NATIONAL LEAGUE Boston 
25 17 .595 .5 East Mtlwaukee 
25 19 .568 1.5 Sunday's Games 22 19 .537 3 Atlanta at Cleveland. 12
w L Pet. GB Balttmore Montreal 23 19 .548 x-New York 22 20 524 35 Buffalo at C1nc1nnat1, 12 19 21 .475 5.5 Houston at N.Y. Jets. 12St. LOUIS 22 19 .537 .5 Toronto 
Cleveland 20 23 .465 6 New England at Pittsburgh, 12New York 20 22 .476 3 Chicago 19 21 .475 3 West Oakland at Detro1t. 12 
.550 Wash~ngton at Philadelphia, 12x-Ph1ladelph1a 18 23 .439 4.5 x-Oakland 22 18 19 .548 Mtamt at Balttmore. 1Pittsburgh 17 25 405 6 Kansas City 23 21 .488 2.5 Mtnnesota v. Green Bay at Mtlwaukee. 18 22 450 4 Kansas C1ty at Seanle, 3 West Mtnnesota 22 
Houston 27 15 .643 Texas Ctnctnnatt 25 17 .595 2 Seattle 18 24 .429 5 New Orleans at San Franctsco, 3 
16 26 381 7 N.Y G1ants at Dallas. 3 San Franc1sco 23 18 .561 3.5 Ch1cago St. Lou1s at Tampa Bay, 3x-Los Angeles 22 20 .524 5 California 15 25 375 7 San D1ego at Denver. 3Atlanta 21 20 .512 5.5 x-f1rst half champs 
Monday's Game

San D1ego 13 31 .295 15 Wednesday's Results Los Angeles at Ch1cago. 8 x-flrst half champs Boston 11, M1lwaukee 5 Wednesday's Results 
Baltimore 1 . Detroit 0 Ch1cago 2, New York 1 
Oakland 6. Toronto 0 
Montreal 3, Pittsburgh 2 

TRANSACTIONSm':
New York 6. Cleveland 1 
Ph1ladelph1a 9, St. LOUIS 4 M1nnesota 6. Kansas City 2 Atlanta 3, Houston 1 Seattle 2, Texas 1 Cinc1nnat1 5. San D1ego 1 Califorma 7. Ch1cago 3 FOOTBALL San Franc1sco 8, Los Angeles 4 

National Football League Thursday's Games Thursday's Games 
GREEN BAY PACKERS Signed veteran runnmg New York (Falcone 3·3) at Ch1cago (Griffin 2·41 Cleveland (Biyleven 11-7) at Boston (Torrez 8·2) n 
back Delvm _W1IIrams to a multr-year contract. P1ttsburgh (Jones 4·3) at Montreal (Lee 3·5) Baltimore (Palmer 6-7) at New York (Guidry 11-3) n 
TAMPA BAY BUCCANEERS s1gned rook1e place­Philadelphia (Oav1s 0-3) at St. Louis (Sorensen 7·6) Minnesota (Jackson 3-3) at Kansas C1ty (Leonard 8­
kicker 6111 Capece. formerly of Flonda State. To make Atlanta (McWilliams 1-0) at Houston (Knepper 8-4) 
11) n room on the roster. the Bucs released veteran place Los Angeles (Welch 7-5) at San Frans1sco (Griffin 8-Seattle (Beattie 3-2) ~t Cahforma (K1son 0-0) n 
krcker Garo Yepremran The Cyprus-born 14-year 
7) n Only games scheduled NFL veteran was cut by New Orleans last year and Only qames scheduled M1am11n 1979. 
The Observer will accept classifieds Monday through Friday, 10 a.m. to 4:30p.m. However, clas­sifieds to be run in the next issue must be received by 3 p.m. the business day prior to insertion. All clas­sifieds must be prepaid. either in person or through thematl. 
NOTICES 
USED BOOK SHOP HOURS WED. SAT. SUN 9-7 CASPERSON, 1303 BUCHANAN AD . NILES. 
NEED RIDE TO HOUSTON TEX. FOR OCTOBER BREAK. CALL CHRIS AT x1678 ANYTIME. WILL SHARE USUAL 
USED & OUT-PRINT BOOKS bought, sold. searched. ERASMUS BOOKS. Tues-Sunday, 12-6. 1027 E. Wayne (One block south of Eddy-Jefferson Intersec­tion) 
COLLEGE BOWL Organizational meet1ng THURSDAY at 7:00pm, CCE­ROOM200 
ATTENTION PROSPECTIVE KNIGHTS 
AdmiSSIOn Degree at K of C Hall 
Sunday. Sept. 27 at 12:30 pm 
Coat and T1e requested 
Bus to NEW YORK CITY-LOWER WESTCHESTER area lor Oct. break. W/return for USC game. Call Ted 1087. 
I know 11 s fnghtemng thought, but are you gett1ng ENGAGED in the near future? If you·re not filthy nch and don't know the. f1rst thing about diamond nngs, settings, etc . g1ve me a call. I'm the campus rep tor a very reputable diamond 1mporter 1n So. Bend. They're professionals and carry an enormous 1nventory at nearly cost. You owe 11 to yourself to check 1nto th1s! Call Markat277-0617 

LOST/FOUND 
Found. on Mon 9114 between P.E. & 
P.W. wnstwatch. half band m1ss1ng. To 1dent1fy and claim, call8058. 
I LOST A BLACK CONTACT CASE IN THE AREA OF THE ACC. PLEASE CALL 282·1546 AFTER 5 P M 
Lost: Medallion w1th inscnpt1on on back. found please contact Dan at 234-8518. Reward 
lost: 5 BeachBoys T1ckets. Last seen 1n -B-L1ne of North DiningHall. If you have them please call-1188. Reward for return. 
Lost 
a two tone blue sweat Jacket 
call V1nce x 1238 
FOUND! sweatshirt on South Quad Call NICk 6708 
FOUND: a Silver necklace on Sunday. September 20. on tenms courts. Call Jeff at 8994 

FOR RENT ] 
RENT TO OWN A COLOR TV OR STEREO CALL SUN APPLIANCE 291­5112 
UGLY DUCKLING RENT-A-CAR From $8 95 a day and 8 cents a m1le. Phone­259-8459 for reservations 
RECENTLY AVAILABLE ONE AND THREE BEDROOM APTS ONE BEDROOM HOUSE 234-2626 
PLANTS PLANTS PLANTS 
PLANTS PLANTS PLANTS 
PLANTS PLANTS PLANTS 
Colleg1ate Plant Fa1r 1s HERE 
TODAY AND FRIDAY 9 TO 6 
FIRST FLOOR LaFortune 
Over 1.000 Plants 
PLANTS PLANTS PLANTS 
PLANTS PLANTS PLANTS 
PLANTS PLANTS PLANTS NOTRE; DAME APTS 1/3 or 2/3 SUite sublease available close to NO call DAVE at 288-4170 ANYTIME 
Student hous1ng, clean. sate, laundry. kitchen. rated supenor. $100 Includes all. 291-1405 
Male roomate(s) needed to share three bedroom house across from campus. $100/month plus share of ut1hlles Call 8700 

WANTED 
NEED EXTRA INCOME? DO YOU LIKE SALES? DO YOU HAVE YOUR OWN CAR? If so, you could become a sales­man selling microcomputers and related soft-ware programs m the M1ch1ana area. Hours are flexible to fit your schedule. Work when you have te time. Call Carl Larsson at 233-9922 for more lnforma­
tJOn. 
TAX ACCOUNTANTS, ACCOUNTING MAJORS!! Need extra inCOme? Would you like to work a couple of hours a week and earn good money. Call Carl Larsson at 233-9922 for more ~nformat10n. 
WANTED: GA's FOR ANY HOME GAMES, CALL PAUL 8509 
Need nde back to NO from MIAMI of Oh1o Sun 27th Jenny 41·'\507 
DESPERATELY need FL.ST.TIX--ST or GA--call Steve-8655 
I desperately need 4 GA TIXS for GEOR­GIA game Will pay b1g $$.Call Anne 41­5473 
Desperately need nde to BUFFALO-ALFRED. NY. area th1s weekend or any weekend. PLEASE call Laura 41·4673 
Need nde to CLEVELAND for break. Will share usual. PLEASE call Cathy 232­8301 
Need 3 GA TIXS to FLORIDA STATE game. BIG$$$ PLEASE call Paula 232· 8301 
Marketmg & Sales Representative Wanted. Entertainment & Sports com­pany expandmg 1nto South Ben_d area. Ground floor opportunity lor nght person Call Amencan Entertainment Assoc. 236· 8029 
DESPERATELY Need a nde to Purdue. Call Paul8810 
I need a nde to Anderson IN on Fn 9/25 Call1729 




FOR SALE~ 
FOR SALE 72 CHRYSLER NEWPORT 49000 Ml EXC. COND $1000 SCOTT­4204 
FOR SALE: 1964 BUICK· $125 cal1283· 1611 after 10 PM 
I 974 PLYMOUTH DUSTER Slant S1x. AutomatiC. Power Steer. Cruise. Tape. Motor excellent cond11ion. Call 289-0123 
Two NO/So. Cal. GA t1x for $200. 602· 978-7501 
Stereo record player -like new. 2 speakers. $45. Call 233-4908. 
Texas Ins Programable 58, hke new. everything 1ncluded. Best offer 8507 after 11PM 

TICKETS 
Penn St. ticket wanted please call Donna at677t 
NEED 2-4 GA TIX FOR ALL HOME FOOTBALL GAMES. CALL ART AT 1593 
HEYI!I I NEED GA TIX FOR ANY HOME GAME. PLEASE CALL DAN AT 288­6251 ANY TIME AFTER 6. 
'I need 3 or 4 GA tiCkets for the M1Ch1gan State game. Call1222 and ask for Peter 
PLEASE HELP!! Need 2 or 4 Penn St. GAs. W1ll pay b1g bucks x1142 
NEED 2 MSU GA TICKETSWILL PAY TOP PRICECALL287-2088 EVENINGS 
Need 4 MICH ST t1x Please Call 1827 
2 GA FLORIDA STATE TIX NEEDED BADLY.MONEY NO OBJECTBob 234­0418 
Need 2 or 4 GAs for the Flonda St game. Call Ralph at 1007 
NEED MSU TIX. Will pay$$$. Blll8927 
HELP! NEED GA TIX FOR MICHIGAN STATE GAME. CALL MARIANNE 277­1099. 
NEED GA TIX TO ANY HOME FOOR­BALL GAME. CALL CATHY 277-2244 
Need 2 GAs lor USC-Please call Chen x8158 
Have 2 USC and 2 MSU GA. Will trade for FSU t1x. Call Ed 1208. 
I NEED 2 G.A MICHIGAN STATE TIX!! WILL PAY$$$ CALL JIM 4642 
NEED USC TIX, ONE STUDENT AND TWO GAs. CALL CHRIS AT 1678. 
PLEASEII! NEED 2 TICKETS (GA) FOR FSU AND GA TECH WilL PAY BUCKS CALLJOE 8866 
Need 4 GA t1ckets for any home game Call Lynn at 8007. 
W1ll pay top$ for NO-USC game l1ckets. Need 6 tickets. best locatiOn ava1lable. Please call collect (714) 835-6505 ask tor Tony Herenda or Judi Carlos. 
NEEDED!! 2 MICHIGAN STATE GA TIX WILL PAY$$$ CALLJIM AT 4642 
DESPERATELY NEED 2 STUDENT OR GA TIX FOR MSU. WILL PAY MEGA BUCKS. CALL KATHY 2126 
Big bucks for USC or FSU tlx. Call Mark at1074. 
Need 4 MSU and 4 USC GA t1x John 1001 
Need 2 GA MSU t1x Money no object. Call Susan 41·4361 
Desperately need 2 USC GA t1x Money no obJect Call Mana41-5191 
I need 2 USC llx. student or GA. money IS no Object. Call Bndget 41-5153 
Ill--DESPERATE--Ill Need 2 t1x to see lnsh trounce T ro1ans Also double occupancy room Oct. 23-24 If you have e1ther/or: When you THINK you have your BEST pnce. call Bob Daley COLLECT (212) 762-0242. I WILL NOT BE OUTBID! 
SURFS UP--If I can get 1 GA or Student t1cket lor USC game For fun-1n·the-sun guy from FLA Have a heart!! Call Pam 4-1 5236. 
Have 2 MSU GA t1x to trade for Penn St 
llx. Will also buy 2·6 Penn St. t1x. Call616­429-1311 collect B410 p.m. 
Have 4-6 Purdue t1x. W1111ng to sell and/or trade. Call Dave I. at 3456 Leave message 
DESPERATELY NEED USC TIX. AM WILLING TO TRADE ROLLING STONE TIX TO DETROIT SHOW NOV.30. PREFER GAs. BUT MIGHT SETTLE FOR STUDENT TIX. CALL CHRIS AT 1678. 

Need U S.C. tickets. 3 G. a. sand 2 Stu· dents. W11! pay well and/or trade tor Navy G.A.'s (1f you like) Call Ron at 6261. Th.anks 
NEED 2 MICH. ST. TIX CALL 8700 
NEED 2 ADJACENT PURDUE GAs Call 
Ph111764 

........ .. ········· 
WILL SELL SOUL FOR 2 NAVY GAS 
AND 2 STU ·s AND 2 GA. TECH GAS 
AND 2 STU'S MARK 1164. 
NEED FLORIDA ST TICKET. CALL JOHN 1615. 
BIG BUCKS FOR USC OR FSU GA TIX. CALL MARK AT t074. 
Need 2 GA t1ckets for M1ch1gan State game. Please! Call Cindy 2917 
Will pay anyth1ng for FLA ST t1xs Need 5! Call Jenny 41-4507 
STUDENT SEASON FOOTBALL TICK­ET FOR SALE-BEST OFFER. CALL CHUCK AT 1479 
TWO GA FSU TICKETS. MONEY NO OBJECT. CALL BOB 234-0418. 
I NEED FOUR MICH ST TICKETS 
CALLJASPERAT 1744 
PSU Tx needed many as possible any Will help CALL M1ke xt396, 1866 
Need three GAs for USC please help · call3691 
NEED 2 GEORGIA TECH GA. TIX CALL BILL 7289 
Need 2 GA TIX USC You name it I'll PaY 11. 226 Stanford 8654 
Will Trade 1 FSU GA plus MUCH CASH for 2 Navy GAs. Please call TOM 1865 
Need as many GA llx as possible to ANY home game. For Ch1cago area Chnstan Brothers. W1ll throw 1n bottle of the1r best Brandy. John 1658 
Need t1x for October 3 Mich. St. game Call Beth, 6945. 
DESPERATELY NEED MSU TIX! CALL JULIE 289-6731 
MAKE A GIRL HAPPY! Need 2 GA llx for FSU and USC Call Donna at 4410 SMC 
Desperately Needed! 2 Purdue GA's. Will pay$$ Call Greg at 232-2578 after6 p.m. 
Need Purdue GAs, Chns 1714 
Purdue Ticket FOR SALE 3856. after 10 p.m 
NEED. 1 MSU stud & 2 FSU GAs Will trade 2 MSU GA s V1nce 1238 
Have 1 Purdue GA. Will trade lor MSU GA or stud. Need other MSU 11x pref stud. Call Sue4495. 
I need MSU t1x' as close to 10 as I can get PRICE NO OBJECT call DOUG 8838 
HELP Need 4 MSU GAs Call J1m at 8630 
WANTED 2 MSU GAS call NICk 6708 
Wanted' 2 USC GA'S Call John 7791 
I NEED 4 GA TICKETS TO THE NAVY GAME. CALL PETER 1222 
Need MSU and Ga Tech GAs desperately. Call Paul at 1222. 
have 2 MSU IIX & HOTEL RESERVA· TIONS call Pat 8762 
HELP'! HELP'! HELPII GRANDMA AND THE GANG ARE COMING FROM IRELAND TO SEE THE IRISH TURN M S U. GREEN WITH ENVY WHEN WE WIN IF HAVE ANY GA. TIX PLEASE CALL CATHY (SMC) 4219 or PATTI (NO) 6763. THANKS 
DESPERATELY NEED 4 NAVY GAS· FAMILY S LAST CHANCE TO SEE HOME GAME PLEASE HELP' CALL CAROL at 41-5108 
Need 3 GA t1x for MSU W1ll pay substan­tial dollars. Call Jerry. even1ngs 289­1467 
Need Penn State t1x. Call Stan. 3006, or 3008 
DESPERATELY NEED 2 PURDUE STU­DENT OR GA TICKETS. CALL ROSE 3750. 
GRANDMA CRAWLING TO GAME. NEED USC GA's AND STUDENTS. CALL ERIC 8580 
NEED 2 USC GA TIX FOR MOM AND DAD CALL SANDY 272-5198 
Need as many GA's as poss1ble! Relat1ves from sunny So. Cal want to see MSU. USC, or FLORIDA! Call Rene at 4408SMC 
WILL TRADE OR SELL PURDUE GAs for MSU GA's or$$$ M1ke 8335 
MISS PENNSYLVANIA fly1ng 1n lor MSU game. Please help w1th student t1cket Vir­glma x7957 
I have 4 GA t1xs to Any Home game. and am w1111ng to trade tor Penn. St. only Call 4609 
NEED 2 GA TIX FOR NAVY GAME ­WILL PAY!! CALL CASEY AT 227-5626 
NEED 2 STUDENT TIX FOR USC GAME · MONEY NO OBJECT!!!! CALL CASEY AT227-5626 
Need 5 FSU GA·s. Call Jack or B1ll at 1100 

PERSONALS 
Annenberg Aud1tonum ---Sept. 25&26 
7 & 9.30 p.m.----AdmiSSIOn 1.00 
SOCIAL CONCERNS FILM SERIES--­September 15-26 
Soc1al Concerns Film Senes WAR WITHOUT WINNERS LaFortune Little Theatre ---Sept 22. 23. &24 
12:00 noon--· FREE AdmiSSIOn 
Soc1al Concerns F1lm Senes 
BREAKER MORANT' 
Sept. 22,23.24 --· 7 & 9:30p.m. 
Engmeer1ng Aud1tor1um 
1 00 AdmiSSIOn 

Part lime JOb for AM Lung Assoc Satur· day hours Must have car Call287-2321 
CRYSTAL ROCKS 
CRYSTAL ROCKS 
CRYSTAL ROCKS 
CRYSTAL ROCKS 
CRYSTAL ROCKS 

every Saturday n1ght at IRISH 
COUNTRY' 

D.C. CLUB MEMBERS---S1gn-ups for the Oclober Break Bus Will be held on Sep­tember 24 from 7-9 p.m 1n LaFortune Ballroom. We w111 be back 1n t1me for the U S.C. game!! Round-tnp t1cket--around $65.00. Any questiOns? Clare-3714 
WE WANT ZOO All members of Patrick's ZOO Choir are 1nv1ted to take the long and W1nd1ng Road to McCandless on Saturday CALL 5726 
DALLAS BUS FOi'l OCTOBER BREAK SIGN UP BY 9/27 CONTACT JOHN AT 619 FLANNER x1103orBOB xt05t $100 ROUNDTRIP 
Whats happen~ng Fnday at THE ZOO? I g1ve up. what? Should I bnng my gnu? I g1ve up. should you? 
DAE 

Have Journal, scrapbook & vanous 
prctures of your own& only ntece" Wtlhng 
to negotrate terms for thetr return. Are you 
?K 125 

VALERIE YOU RE THE LOVE OF MY LIFE TILL THE END OF TIME AND SPENDING IT WITH YOU WOULD BE MY ULTIMATE DREAM COME TRUE LOVE ALWAYS AND FOREVER JON 
GAY STUDENT HOTLINE 288-3247 Thursdays 9·11 Students helping students. 

PURDUE TAILGATER: Sen1or Class Will sponsor a ta1lgater at Purdue before the game. Stop by and get pnmed! Look for N D. SENIORS s1gn 
PLAYING ANSWERING MACHINE WILL JUST NOT DO./ TOO MANY GUYS ARE AFTER YOU./THE '81 DOGBOOK PROVED A GREAT SUCCESS/YOU LOOKED STUNNING IN YOUR LAVEN· DAR DRESS./MELISSA. YOU KNOW WE LIKE YOU.WE REALLY DO./ BUT NOW THAT YOU DON'T LIVE IN 422./MAY WE SET THE GUYS STRAIGHT?LET THEM SEE,/IT'S ON THE SECOND FLOOR-ROOM 243/ THAT'S WERE SHE LIVES -IT'S NO JIVE./THE PHONE NUMBER IS 6925./WELL, MELISSA MIRANDA, WE ONLY WANT TO STATE/IT'S NOT YOU THAT WE REALLY HATE./ IT'S RUN· NING TO THE PHONE. ONLY TO CUSS./'CUZ AS WE LIFT THE RECEIVER ITS NOT FOR US./ MELIS· SA LIVES IN BADIN HALL ROOM 243./SO PLEASE CALL HER NOT MY ROOMIE -AND ME!! 
How are your Muddpies? J& T 
JIM LOVES SARAH! CALL HER AND TELL HER-8092 
Wanted: Alders to Cleveland (leav1ng Fn. Oct. 2)-G01ng to John Carroll. Call John 3527 
LATIN AMERICA WEEK 1981 beg1ns th1s Saturday, Sepl. 26 A vanety of speeches, mov1es and presentatiOns deal1ng w1th the political. soc1al, econom1c and rehg1ous aspects of the countnes of Latin Amenca are slated Anend and par­tiCipate!! 
LATIN AMERICA WEEK 1981! Don t miSS II! 
Patty-You re SOOOO CUTE 
Ok Boo-Boo. 

I wont take your name anymore I don t even want to be cacalled Boo-Boo But I'd Still rather k1ss you than a wook1e (I hope that can be arranged!!!) 
Mucha smooch1es. 
Yog1 
S1gh 
HEY. You 2 Volleyball Stars' YES. You JULIE & JO-Show ThiS Campus What Those Bun Huggers are Made of' Good Luck· We are proud of you 2 
Luv. M & M!!1! 

WHY CUT YOUR FALL BREAK SHORT ? sell your SC t1x yo me en1oy game at home on TV call 3275 $$$ 
L1sa T 1n Angers. Happy 19th Don t dnnk too much w1ne on your b day or Fr Gorsk1 Will g1ve you your b1rthda y spank1ng' Tom & RICh 
Attention CHEMISTS' RICH YOHON has been unammously declared CHEMIST of the WEEK because of h1s awesome performance and devot1on to Chem1stry Any pretty girls Interested 1n PRIVATE TUTORING SESSIONS. call RICH at 6984 or else stop by at 504 FLANNER 
HEY KAY HOLLAND! YES, YOU, KAYt HAPPY 20TH BIRTHDAY! 
P.S. Remember -never tell me what you don't want! 


The Observer -Sports Thursday, September 24, 1981 -page 9 
• • • Ruggers 
\'iichigan. Reynolds tlnished second 
continuedfmiii{}{IR£' 12 
in the "A" division with senior Carol Silva and junior Angelo Capozi alternating as his crew. In the "B" 
innon:nt suffer" messa~e. 
I lnfortunately, in tJ:!is hank both sides lose. Ru~hy loscs the status of 
division, freshmen Tom Fink and possibly over 60. competitors and 
Bob Hannau alternating as skippers tht· NYA office loscs a tine program 
with .Jerry Daus as crew led the club in rugby which hitherto has been 
to seventh place. Next weekend the one of t ht· most successful and es­
club will send teams to Annapolis, tablished clubs, along with sailing, at 
Detroit and \'iarquette. the tlnivcrsity. Included over the 
WATER POLO -Things got years have been trips to New York. 
carried away for another Notre Florida, Texas and Ireland, and the 
Dame team in Ann Arbor last Satur­largest membership tlgures of any 
day as the water-polo club lost to club. 
\'iichigan, 13-6. It got carried away This wet•k normallv would have 
in more ways than one as a lack of seen the third of tlve fall season 
experienced officials really didn't matches for the club. Instead only a 
make it a match of control. Pat green-white scrimmage between 
McDivitt and .John Smith scored two wme of the members is scheduled 
goals apiece to lead Notre Dame. for Saturday. 
who may host Michigan this Satur­Oh, sure, some of the players still 
day at the Rockne ;vtemorial Pool. If not, the next meet would be a week


scrimmage for the excerdse and for The SprinRfJoks, Soutb Africa's National RugiJJ• Tbe team, sbou•n bere in a xame earlier tbis some fun. hut almost all the thrill from Saturday at the Ohio State team, u•on its game in Neu• York, 41-0. amid con-u•eek in Raci11e, Wise., m£~)' play another Rame before and luster are gone. Tournament. ~ travers!'. . leavinR (he U.S See related storl' DaRe 9. ( AP Photo) 
"You know we had about 20 fresh­men alone that would have come out if we weren't on this suspen­sion," explains Colarclli. 
"All we need now are some answers soon so that we can have something or other to shoot for and so that this season would not be a total waste -especially for the seniors." 
One of the written proposals made by the club is to offer their services in volunteer work for the Northeast neighborhoods of South Bend, whcrt· Notre Dame students aren't particularly held in high es­teem (most notably during w~·ekends ). 
"We could get in about I00 man­hours of work for the people during the cours~· of a week. and probably devdop a better relationship with those people in the ndghhorhoods. 
Coping With Graduate School­
-------------·-­
a Couples Survival Workshop 
Open to Notre Dame graduate student couples 
Saturday, Oct. 10 University Commons, Social Center Bulla Ave. 
9:00 to 5:00 Call Psychological Services (283-7336) bv Oct. 5 

~ i&it4a:r~ '11 / ]J{A1H& ii1E~1J(J)N@I Open.6 days a week / ,~Just 417 DIXIEWAY / -North acrossfrom Wend,y~ ,..of Campus 277-0734 personalized Hair Desi!(ns  

Come to\,Wolfies us 
ND
31 
just 10 min 

Brin!f this AD! 
It's worth 10% offan_y away

5· ~ 

Sanyo Portable in Stock!
It could henl'lit the I iniversity as 
wdl as us," relates Colardli. 



I~---------------~---------,RIVER CITY RECORDS I 
...

Stull Rd. 
"\'\'c warned them of the stan· 
Wolfies
1 Northern Indiana's Largest Selection of Albums &Topes. I 
dards ofbehavior that they must car­
I· Why pay more any place else? I
ry out in representing our 

'f)SANYO
llnivnsity," reminds Kelly. "Who's 
I $l 00 OFF'any regul~r ~ecord or lope with ad. 1 
to know if they'll abide hy them if I L1m1t 1 per person 1 

AM/FM Stereo

I • •
they w<.·rc to be taken off their Expires Oct.lO ,1981 

Portable Cassette 
'uspension." 
1 50970 US 31 North e Open tiII 1 0 every night I 

Recorder·. (the athletic dc:partmt'nt) take thdr 13 miles North of Campus e ND/SMC checks cashed I
However he docs add that "We 

Built in mikes 
I 
next to Al's Supermarket up to $20 over I
proposal in good faith. At least it is a good first su·p." 
purchase amount 
I 


$99.95
277-4242 eRecord Crates available
But here's to a plea that the top of 
.. 
Custom Installation 

Wolfies 
Car Stereo 1202 South Main Cruise Control 288-4733' Air Conditioners Hours 
Car Alarms 8: 3D-5 :00 Sat. 8:3D-5:3D Mon.-Fri. Layaways Visa & Masterchange 
• 


tht· stairway be reacht'd hy the t'nd of tht· semester so that hy spring the Rugby Club can have at least some knowledge of what the ncar future holds. 
Sacritlces have to he made on both ~kit's. A "we-they" argument just won't do the trick. Th~· <.·oopera­tion of both parties is greatly needed. The question is. though, do they want it badly enough' 
SAII.ING -Led hr another fine pl'fti1rmance hy senior skipper Phi I Reynolds the Sailing Club tlnished fifth out of 15 tt·ams in the Notre Dame Intersectional at Eagll' Lake in 



--------------------------· 
ATTENTION ALL BOSTON CLUB MEMBERS!!! 
Important meeting this Thursday, 9/24 at 7:00 PM in LaFortune Little Theater (first floor) We'll discuss bus, tailgaters, and other events PLEASE COME! 

ANNOUNCING ... 
Travel Services Now on the Campus of St. Mary's College 
• 
Computerized Airline Reservations 

• 
Amtrak Tickets 

• 
Bus/Limo Tickets to Chicago 

• 
Tours and Cruises 

• 
Group Travel Services 


(219) 284-5606 

~source 
St. Mary's 

•Travel 
LeMans Hall--Lower Level 
Notre Dame Travel Office Located in Badin Hall (219) 236-2374 
' 



The ObserYer Thursday, Stptember 24, 19H I -page 10 
Molson Nite at Lee's~ 
5()(y Drafts ' of Molson Canadian
$2.50 pitcher Thurs. " Sept. 24 9-l 
21 ID's Required 
''TASTE CANADA" 


Miller H~h Life Weleo You 
~~----r--•--------------------------------------­
Mail $16.95 plus coupon for each camera ordered to: 
Miller Partytime Offer P.O. Box 9654 St. Paul, MN 55196 
Ple.ase ship ______________ Partyt1me Camera(s) 
Spec1ty Clty 
TO 

Address-Street= PO Box Apt :::\
1
.State 

1Your S1gnatun• Your money order or check must be enclosed and m_ade pJyable to Miller Partyt1me Otter No Club or Organ,zat,on quant1tv purchase· please (Offer exp~res May 31. 1982) 
------------------------------------------~ 
CaptureYour MillerTime 
... with Kodak's Partytime Instant Camera! 
A Special Back-to-School offer from your friends at Miller High Life Beer. · A Kodak Partytime instant camera for only $16.95­
a comparable $35.00 value. Clip the coupon. and send 
it along with a check or money order for the amount of purchase. (Allow 4-6 weeks for delivery.) 
1981 Miller Brewing Company, Milwaukee. WI 

Host meet 

Runners face tough cotnpetition 
ByEARLRIX 
.Sports Writer 

After shutting out Ohio State last weekend, hopes are high for the Notre Dame Cross Country Team as they host the National Catholic Cross Country Championships tomorrow. 
The five-rvile race, which will 
start at 4:00p.m. on the 16th fairway 
of the Burke ·"lemorial Golf Course. 
will feature I<) seven-man teams 
from catholic univisit:ies across the 
nation. 

This is only the second annual :'-~a­tiona! Catholic .Vleet. Marquette won the inaugural a year ago..VIar­quettc and Cicorgetown shape up as the pre-race favoritdi. ''Its going to be a very challenging meet," saitl senior co-captain Pat Sullivan. "Georgetown and Marquette, as far as we know, arc: the: two teams to go after, and we've gut rc:spc:ct for both squads. 
"Its a meet of high quality." con­tinuc:d Sullivan. "Thc:re are a number of outstanding individuals as well as teams. The team attitude is really. positive. We're excited by the chal­
lenge."  
'  There:  should  be  more  of chal­ 
lenge  than  the  Irish  met  at  Ohio  

State last weekend. "I think we over­estimated their abilities a little bit," said head coachJoe Piane. "Our guys really weren't pushed. \X'e're still un­
tested -we ~till don't know how 
good we t'an he." 
The Irish should gt:t an indication of ho'w good they can be this wc:c:kend. Included in the fidd :s Pc:te Skorseth of .\1arquette who r.Iaced second in the meet last year and who should be the favorite to win the: individual honors. accord­ing to Piane Another runner to 
v. ateh for will be Georgetown'sJohn Gregorek. an olympian in the steeplechase and a ;'.:';6. miler. 
Last weekend the lrish.wc:re abk 
to run eight out of their nine mt'n in 
a pack which beat the entire OSl' 
~quad. "The key to our win wa~ 
group running. I'm sure that 
demoralized the other team. " said 
Pian e. 
With 1<) teams racing tommor· 
row. running as a team should be 
more ditlkult and probably even 
more important. "In order for any 
team to win," Sullivan said, "They 
will have to run as a group. They will 
have to get a really solid group es­
tablbhed early in the race. If your 
runners get sprc:ad out at the start. it 
really hurts your d1ances." 
Last year Marquette t1nishnl tlrst. 
the Irish sc:cond, St. Thomas third, Holy Cross fourth, and St. Johns fifth. Georgetown is a new addition to the meet this year. "The competition should boil down to Marquette, ·Notre: · Dame. and Georgetown," 
Piane said. 
"We're in bettter shape than last year and all the guys seem to be healthy. Thty competed wdl against Ohio State. It should give: them' a great deal ofcontldence." Piane con­tinued. "They have to be able to see themsdves as winners -ami I'm sure they do. Its going to take anoth­t'f real good competitive dt(Jrt for these kids to beat Marquette and Georgetown." 
Springboks .defeat 


U.S. team 
ALBANY, :-.i.Y. (AI')-The South African Springboks rugby team, having dekated an American all-star team on the playing tleld and Gov. Hugh Carey in the courts. i~ keeping secret whether it will leave the country or try to play one more game. 
About, I. 500 prote~ters against South Africa's policy ofracial separa· tion stood in the rain outside Bkeck­
c:r Stadium on Tuesday night chanting "stop tht: !5"""-'"' "'~ ::­cially mixed Springboks slogged rhrough mud to a 41-0 victory over an Eastern Rugby Union all-star tc:am. Earlier in the dav. U.S. Supreme Court Justice i;hu~good ·"larshall turned down a last-ditch appeal from statelawyers trying to stop the g-•.11ne. Carey had said he feared the game would spark a ri(Jt and said he had reports that up to I 5,000 demonstrators would appear. However. there were no injuries Tuesday night. Albany Police Chief 
Thomas Burk~· said one person with 
a knife was arrested inside .the 
stadium and four others were ar­
rested t(>r disorderly conduct at a 
nearby fast-food restaurant. :-;one 
was identified. 
There was one tense moment when about I00 protesters broke: away from the main demonstration. moved toward a police line and faced off against the hdmeted police:. .\1ost of the splinter dc:monstrators moved back when 
folksinger Pete Seeger began to per­form. 

L__ 


,The Observer. ___ 

T0 da~==============T=h=u=rs:;:d=a=y=,S='e=p=t=e=m=b=e=r=2=4=,=19=8=1==p=a=ge=1=:1 
Molarity 


COACH FltU5T JNANTS HE ID ti£VIEWTH£ PoUBLE A.CT/DAJ REVER~ B!!O<Ft£L-P Ho77oN WITH YoU FoP. TH£ NfXI PLAY WAlCH 5;6.7.g,,. 

Tonight: Post bonfire special 


Meet the Canadian-Windsor & 7-t.JP Friday: Pre Purdue 

Michael Molinelli 





ACROSS 

Campus 
•noon 
-t11m. "war without winners", Iafortune: littk theatre:, sponsored hy social concerns sc:rks. • -i pm -seminar. "dc:ctron transfer and light induced processes of porphyrins & chlorophylls" prof haim kvanon, nd, conft:rc:nce room rad lab. •-t:50 pm -kenna kcturc: sc:rks, "topics in aritb· mc:tk groups", prot: j.l'. humphreys, 226 ccmb. •-1:50 pm _;_ provost's kcturc: sc:ril's, "biological docks: the time of your lik", dr. stanky beck. univ of wisconsin. galvin aud. 

•(J::'IOpm 
-AIESEC ml'l'ting. llanner commonlT. 


•"' and l):;'.O pm -soda! concerns tllm, "breaker morant''. enginn-ring aud, S I. 
•"':50 
pm -m~Tting. nu·mori;tl library aud, ~pon~ornl by prl·-law society. 

• 
"':;'.0 pm -lecture, "hbtory as inquiry". prof john lyon. mi. mnnoriallihrary lounge, sponsored hv general program. • -. ;'.0 pm -thur~day night t11m ~nics, "out of thl· pa~t", annl·nhn'g aud. 

•H 
pm -lecture. "thoma~ more's utopia", gnard \\cgcmer. nd grad student, I I 0 o'~hag. sponsorl·d lw thoma~ more !>odctv. 

•H 
pm -pavlova ·n·ll-hration, Marr d<tnais, o'Jaughlin <tUd, ~pun:-.urnl by perfurming arts series. S-1 adult!o, S2 stmknts. 

•l)-1 
I pm -open swge night. nazz, come one, cuml· all' 


Television T()Oight 
7:00p.m. 16 (;amcs Pcopk Play 
22 Magnum PI 
28 Mork and Mindy 
34 .Jazz: An Am~·rican Classic, "Born in 
Anwril'a" 

46 Mirack ll.t-vival !lour 
7:30p.m. 28 lkM of till· \\'l'SI 
34 Tht· Vi"nory < ;ardt·n 
46 W.V. Granl 

8:00p.m. 16 A l.ovc lxtlt·r to.Jat·k Benny 
22 Nurse 

28 Taxi ( I hour) 
34 Stll'ak Previews 
46 l.estt·r Sumrall Tt·aching Serics 
8:30p.m. 34 Vic Bradl·n's Tl·nnis 
46 Panern for Living 
9:00 p.m. 28 20/20 

34 Mastt-rpicn· Thl·atn· Favorites 
46 Today with Ll·Mn Sumrall 
10:00 p.m. 16 NewsCl·nter 16 
22 22 Eyl·wiuwss Nl·ws 
28 Nl·wswatch 2H 
34 Thl' Dick Cavctl Show 
46 Jat·k Van lmpt· 
10:30 p.m. 16 Tonight Show 22 <)uitll')' & Till' Saint 28 ABC News Nightlinl· 34 Captioned ABC Nt·ws 46 faith h>r Today 
11:00 p.m. 28 Charlie'' Angl·h 46 Praisl' thl· Lord 
11:30 p.m. 16 Tomorrow Coast to Coast 
This Day in History 
Today's highlight in history: On Sept. 2-!, I6HH. Franc.:l·'s l.oub XIV declared war against the lloly Roman Empirl·. 
Allll in 197<), the .Justin· lkpartment said Presi­dent Caner·~ brother. Billy, had takl·n preliminary step~ toward declaring himsdf a tl>rl'ign agent of the Libyan government. 
Five year~ ago: Patricia Ikarst was sentencnl to Sl'H·n }Tars in prison f(>r her part in a 1<)7'-1 hank robbery. 
One year ago: anti-.\larxbt rcbds in Afghanistan claimed to have killed I,'iOO Soviet troops in that nation during a month of tlghting. -AP. 
,._ ':"' 

1 Soviet city 6 MIT or RPI 10 Thickening 
agent 14 Gem state 15 Speck 16 East Indian 
vessel 17 Start the 
day 18 Soon 19 Play part 20 CPA's 
realm? 23 Raven's cry 26 Newsstand 27 Horror film 
actor 28 Musical passage 
Wednesday's Solution 

moving aid 31 Caron film 32 Journalist 
James 36 Rehearsal 
call? 41 Laughing 42 Hat rack, 
for example 44 Platforms 48 Theatre 
employees 50-nous 51 Denude 54 Tennyson's 
before 55 Psychia­trist? 58 Sobriquet for Nureyev 
\ 
cloth 60 Of birth 64 Medical 
suffix 65 Weights 66 Wear away 67 Fake 68 Sword 69 Hogan's 
relative 
DOWN 
Rus~&ian 
plane 2 Small fish 3 Turner 
or Cole 4 Synagogue 5 Coins for 
Tevye 6 Adult 
insect 7 Roman date 8 Heron 
relative 
9 Care for 10 Los­11 Stroller 12 Clothes 13 1937 Oscar 
winner 21 Scenic rep· resentation 22 Chan player 

23 White House 62 Citrus nickname refresher 24 Pavarotti 63 Marvin or song Remick 

25 Determina· lion 29 Peanut or 
olive 30 Pipe 33 Flightless 
bird 34 Draft org. 35 Digit 37 Seraglio 38 Ordinal 
suffix 39 Canadian Indian 
40 Jean or Walter 43 Inhabitant: suff. 
44 Certain rockets, forshort 
45 Forward flow 46 Roman 
arenas 47 Cliche 49 Small piano 51 Journalis· 
tic triumph 52 Threefold 53 Wash cycle 56 Der ­57 Sympathize 61 Go one 
better 
r 
----~-~--,---~­
~ ../ 

Thursday, September 24, 1981 -page 12
orts 

N.D. Invitational 

Netters in only fall action 
By CHUCK GREENE 
!>ports Writer 

The defending champion Fighting Irish will serve as hosts this weekend for the 12th annual Notre Dame Fall Invitational Tennis Championship. Purdue, Indiana, Indiana State, Il­linois State, Miami (Ohio), Western Michigan and Missouri will par­ticipate in the two-day tournament, played at the Courtney Tennis Cen­ter. 
The teams will be randomly placed in either the "Blue" or "Gold" division. Each team will play a dual match with the other three teams in its bracket, and then be ranked according to the results. A match with the team ranked op­posite them in the other division will determine the final standings. 
Coach Tom Fallon leads the Irish squad into the tourney confident his team will do well, but cautious nonetheless. "We have five return-
Penance completed? 
Give ruggers achance 
"We don't need each other...or do we." -Kenny Rogers 
One of the great tragedies in life is never knowing the 
value ofsomething until it is lost. 
Briefly, back on March 31 ofthis year, the Rugby Club (or at least 25 members) was placed on "indefinite suspension" by the University stemming from their "elephant walk" in a closed private rugby barroom in Houston, Texas after one of its matches. Trouble was, the "walk" was done in elephant clothing too -plain skin. 
"I still don't know how word got out about our inci­dent last year, but it was pretty sneaky," says Nick Cularelli, tht: spokesman for the club. "But we had people running tht: team last year who operated on a standard that a majority of the team did not want, but for which now everyone (including the innocent) has to absorb the punishment. 
"Rugby Clubs, not just here, but throughout America, ing players and a good compliment of freshman," he says, "so the talent is there for a good showing. But, it's hard to compensate for the loss of our No. 2 and No. 3 players right away. The biggest question for us is 

whether or not our talent will be ready." 
'I would definitely be in favor ofa split schedule,· with some matches in the fall and others in the spring. ' 
Mark McMahon will play No. I singles again this season, but not without some stiffcompetition from No.2 manJim Falvey. These two are followed by senior captain Tom Hartzell, in the No. 3 slot. McMahon, Falvey and Hartzell will form the nucleus of the squad, after winning winning almost 75 percent of their matches last spring. 
Senior Tom Robison, junior Paul Idzik and freshman Mike Gibbons round out the starting lineup going into the fall tournament. Robison is a three-time monogram winner, while Idzik moves into the starting lineup for the first time. Gibbons is one of four freshmen who should see a Jot of playing time in the years to come. The other three are Paul Najarian, John Novarny and Tom Pratt. 
This tournament b the only fall competition scheduled for the squad. Fallon feels the fall tourney is very valuable to the team, providing a chance for some match play before the spring schedule rolls around, but also thinks a split schedule would bt: much more fcasiblt:. 
"I would det1nitdy be in favor. ofa split schedule, with some matches in the fall and others in the spring," he says. "The fall season would be bet­ter in that it provides us with better weather to play in, the players have less academic pressure to deal with, and arc at the top oftheir game from summer tournaments. 
"I've been trying to get a fall schedule for years, and I think it's coming, but not in the near future." 
Fallon, the winningest active Notre Dame coach with 388 career wins, will enter his 26th season as head coach this spring, looking for his fourth straight 20-win season. He is looking forward to the spring, saying, "If the team can mature in the fall tournament, then I think we have a good shot at the 20-win plateau. 
Name  Class  Hometown  
Jim Falvey  Sr.  Ocala, Fla.  
Mike Gibbons  Fr.  Miami, Fla.  
x-Tom Hartzell  Sr.  Rochester, N.Y.  
Paulldzik  Jr.  South Wales, N.Y.  
Mark McMahon  Jr.  Sar:' Diego, Calif.  
Paul Najarian  Fr.  Norwalk, Ct.  
John Novatny  Fr.  Creve Coeur, Mo.  
Tom Pratt  Fr.  Thousand Oaks, Calif.  
Tom Robison  Sr.  St. Petersburg, Fla.  
x-denotes captain  




One may quickly come to the impression that a bitter battle is being waged, which is really not the case. One may more so call it an unrest in purgatory. It's easy to empathize with both feelings; on one hand the dis­cipline factor, and on the other the "why should the 
See RUGGERS, page 9 

Working to bounce back from Michigan 
EDITOR'S NOTE: Today The Observer begins publication ofNotre Damefootball Coach Gerry Faust's nationally syn­dicated column. 
I never allow the thought of losing to enter my mind but 
I've always been realistic enough to know that it is inevitable. 
Even when a loss does come about, it is hard to convince 
myself that something good can come out of it. I prefer less 
painful lessons. However, there are times when there is 
something worthwhile to be learned from a losing effort, for 
coaches and players alike. 
In our game against Michigan last week it was apparent 
that Bo Schembechler's team came to play. Like all good 
teams should. They took advantage of all the psychological 
factors surrounding the game; an opportunity to rebound 
from a previous defeat, opening at home before a magnificent 
crowd of over 105,000, performing before a national televi­
sion audience, and going up against a team that was ranked 
No. I in the national polls. In addition, they played superb 
football by being aggressive on offense and by employing great pursuit on defenst:. 
When a team as talented as the Wolverines puts it all to­gether, the result can be an awsome display of finesse and power. Offensive speed and power form a beautiful combina­tion that creates a great deal of problems for a defense. In fullback Butch Woolfolk and tailbacks Stan Edwards and Lawrence Ricks, the Wolverine running game can be devastating, and when you add a devastating wide receiver like Anthony Carter to the attack, then the problems for the 
defense are compounded. 
Carter is an unusual athlete. He has the grace and speed ofa 
thoroughbred and displays uncanny ability to get open when 
running his pass routes. And he has the acrobatic ability and 
great hands that make him one ofthe premier receivers in the 
country. In Michigan's passing game, Carter can be flanked 
on either side of the field aand is always a deep threat. Even 
so, when he lined up on the same side as John Krimm, our 

-:~:;:;:;.;::::::::::::-: ;:;:;:;.;.:-:-: :-:-;.:-:;:;:;:;:;:;:,:;:;:;:;:,.;-:-:·:.:;:;.;:;:;:;:;:;:;.;:;:;:,:,:;: -:·:·:·:·:·:·:;:;:;:· .;.;.:-: ;.·.;.;.;. ••;.;.;-:-..--:-:-:;::-:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;.;::;::;:;:;:;:::::::=::·::::::;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;::;:::::;:~
\l@illmt :i:i~;ii\;\~ t\\~})lii?J\U)/~~~IU?~~~~=~=~~n~~~~ :~g~n::/::::: =·=·:<:=·=======·=========·==============:=:=:=:::::::::::::=:=:=:=:=:=:::::::=:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~~=~=~ 
Gerry Faust FoothaD Coach 


cornerback, the game films indicatt: that John did an out­
standing job of keeping the ball away from the speedy 
receiver. Krimm made a number of key defensive plays in 
these situations, either knocking the ball away or covering 
Carter so closely that he V~<as unable to make the catch. 
Krimm has been a fine pcrformt:r the past three years for Notre Dame and is destined to graduate with high honors. tHe is a philosophy major and currently carries a 3.6 grade point 
average. 

Our task this week is clear. We must eliminate the little errors that cause a team to stop itselfin crucial situations. We also will be faced with the challenge of regrouping as a team to overcome the disappointment of defeat and to prove to ourselves that we can play with the-kind of intensity it takes to be a consistent winner. The mental preparation for an op­ponent is just as vital as the physical and tactical because there is such great parity on the major college level today. Consequently, keeping the emotional pitch on an even keel and yet playing each game with the necessary intensity is no small matter. And indication of why this is important is the fact that there already has been a number of "upsets" even 
though the college football st:ason is only several weeks old. 
In reviewing the results of last wct:k's games it was 
interesting to see how things went for many previous losers 
and winners. Nebraska, for instance, shwed a great deal offire 
power in beating a good Florida State team after having lost 
to Iowa, who in turn lost to Iowa State last Saturday. Wiscon­
sin and Georgia Tech pulled offbig surprises in their opening 
games, but fell the following week to UCLA and Florida. Just 
as in our own case, there are other examples of teams that reached great emotional heights in winning followed by dis­appointing losses. The psychology in sports is an interesting subject, and coaches are faced with the problem of how to deal with it each week. 
Exactly what is the best approach a coach should take? What are the choices, and is there one better than another? I've been told that when John McKay coached at Southern Cal, he never scrimmaged his team once the season started, win or lose. Other successful coaches feel that the best way to get teams back on track after poor performances is to make the practices intense, with a Jot of hitting and running. Get­ting back to the basics -blocking and tackling -is another tactic used by others. 
Some coaches have gone to extremes by scrimmaging 
three or four days in a row. I guess it boils down to how each 
asseses the reasons fort a defeat. lf it was the result of a total 
lack ofconcentration, then a more mental approach, such as 
drills and a thorough review of assignments, might be in or­
der. If the performance was a lackluster one without emo­
tion, then the practices would be geared to regaining the 
proper emotional level. Perhaps a coach will feel that full­
scale, game-like scrimmages might produce better con­
centration, emotion and intensity all at the same time. 
I've always felt that you havt: to have a certain amount of 
physical contact during the early part of a game week in or­
der to improve techniques and sharpen execution, and tht:n 
taper off the last two days prior to the game. It would be my 
guess that most teams that want to be better, expect to work 
hard at improving and in eliminating mistakes, and arc wil­
ling to do whatever the coaching staft. ft:els it takes to be 
better than its next opponent. 
Our next opponent is Purdue, and this game is always a typical bad:yard battle. Both teams usually are well-prepared mentally and physically for this contest, and some classic games have resulted from this intrastate rivalry. 









