Roots -page 3
' '
' 


VOL. XVI, NO. 38 an mdependent srudent newspaper serving notre dame and saint mary's MONDAY, OCTOBER 12, 1981 
Heppen, Dedrick discuss dortnitories 
Director ofStudet>t residences Fr. Michael fleppen ami Physical Plant Director james Dedrick recentzy met witb ObserverNeu•s Editor Kl!l· li Flint to discuss current renova­lions in on-campus student housing. 
Q: W'bat are your immediate plans for the donnitories? 
A: (Dedrick) lmmediatc:ly, we plan to continue the long-range dor­mitOI'}' renovation project that we started in the summer of I 980. Our first concern, particularly in some of the older residence halls, was that of life safety. We looked at the exits, put in new exit towers, and addressed the fire sufficiency of the corridors. In the last couple of years 
we have installed total sprinkler sys­


Heppen-Dedrick 
i:ems in Saint Edward's Hall, Sorin Hall, Walsh Hall, Badin Hall, and Car­roll Hall. We also put individual room hard-wired smoke detectors in each of these buildings. We arc going to continue that program. We art· even going to work at additional fire safety in some of the more modern dormitories, the so-called "fire resistant" dorms like Pangborn . Fisher Keenan, Stanford, and Brcen­Phillips which are made ofconcrete. We plan to add individual smoke 

detectors and detection systems in those dorms. 
Q: Do all ofthe dormitories have fire towers or something com­parable now? 
A: ( Heppen) There is a problem in a couple of dorms that we have not addressed as yet. For example, we have a "dead" corridor in Alumni which has to be addressed some­place down the line. I think we also have a dead corridor in Dillon. (Dedrick) It's true we have those corridors, but they are not long enough that I would consider them a hazard. (Hcppen) We are conduct­ing an ongoing study of what has to be done here in the future to make the halls as safe as possible. 
Q: What other renovations are you planning? 
A: (Dedrick) In addition to the safety, we arc also addressing some of the ambiance of the dorms: cracked plaster has been replaced or repaired, we replaced showers and toilets in Badin Hall, and we have created new rooms in Carroll Hall. If you talk to boys who have lived in Carroll for the past three years they will definitely tell you what an upgrade of life has ocurred there. (Heppen) We are also addressing the liveability of the dorms. One of the unfortunate things is that some of these dorms were built for stu­dents in the '30s,'40s and '50s, when students did not have as much electrical equipment as they do 
these days. There were no stereos or hi-fis around when I came to school 
See Q&A, page 4 

The formal commemoration of the 25th an­Mary,·s was held yesterday. The concert featured niversary of O'Laughlin Auditorium at Saint the music ofNorman Dellojoio. (photo by Cheryl Ertel!) · · 
After Sadat's funeral 

Gunmen attack minister's hotne 
CAIRO, Egypt (AP) -Egyptian police sources said yesterday that gunmen in two cars sprayed machine gun fire at the home oflnte­rior Minister Nabawy Ismail, killing an undetermined number of his bodyguards. Ismail told a news con­
ference the report was "completely a lie." , 
jean Harris analyzed 

Book examines. ''appetite,, 
By EILEEN PUTMAN 
Associated Press Writer 

jean Harris deeply hated Herman Tarnower, a sadis­tic bully to whom she crawled like an addict for sex, love and money, according to a newly published hook by a longtime social critic. 
"Deep in her mind and heart she wanted to kill Dr. 
Tarnower," Diana Trilling writes ofthe former Madeira 
School headmistress she sees as "neither fine nor 
ladylike." 

As for Tarnower, Mrs. Trilling labels him a tyrant with 
"an insatiable appetite" for power and fawning women. 
"Little wonder he became famous as a diet MONDA doctor; he was a glutton for other people's vul­


••FOCUS 
nerabilities," the author says in Mrs. Harris: the Death ofthe Scarsdale Diet Doctor." 
The book may shock Mrs. Harris' defenders, who saw her as a lady of Victorian principles and impeccable breeding who wanted only to shoot herself amid the daffodils surrounding the backyard pond ofthe man she loved. 
Now 58, Mrs. Harris is serving a 15-year-to-life sen­tence on her conviction for the March 10, 1980, mur­der of Tarnower, 69, in a jealous rage over another woman. 
Mrs. Trilling's book is being published a year after Mrs. Harris' trial began and just one month before an appellate court will convene to hear her appeal. 
Attorney joel Aurnou said on Friday that he hadn't read the book and therefore would not comment on its and jean Harris unlawfully convicted of his murder." 
The book is the work ofa respected essayist and critic who at age 76 has edited literary works and published commentary on political and social events but has no particular training in law or psychology -discussions ofwhich dominate her book. 
Mrs. Trilling also admits to never interviewing Mrs. Harris: "if I was going to take a point ofview which was in any way disinterested and only objective, I couldn't do it." 
The author makes no pretense at being a reporter. Her book is rife with unconfirmed hearsay: "a story I had heard", "was said to have told the press", and "can it be true?" In an interview in her Manhattan apartment, she said she is used to "interpreting" what events mean to society. 
Mrs. Trilling had never been inside a courtroom and never written a book when she decided to telljean Har­ris' story in a 5,000-word essay embellished with trial highlights. 
A daily observer at the trial, she said she first viewed the defendant as a symbol of a woman "driven to desperation" by a womanizing, manipulating man: "I could make a feminist identification with her ... and I think many women did." 
But she came .to see not the pitiable middle-age woman the defense portrayed, but a "hard woman" who matter-of-factly handled Tarnower's bloody sheets and pajamas and showed "unflagging snootiness." 
"To be there in the courtroom and to have seen her total lack of remorse... She wept only for herself," Mrs. Trilling said. 
"Is this the best we can do in the way offemale cham­pions? Surely what's wrong here is that we're confusing an irremediable and fatal collision between one man and one woman with a remediable attitude toward 
The police sources said the attack occurred hours after the funeral on Saturday of President Anwar Sadat. They also said there were armed at­tacks on at least two police stations in Cairo, and a shootout between police and Moslem fundamentalists barricaded inside a Cairo mosque. 
Security sources, meanwhile, said they were seeking at least two other suspects in the assassination ofSadat last Tuesday. 
Ismail called a news conference 
minutes after the report ofthe attack 
on his house, but later refused to 
field questions. Instead, he took 
reporters on a tour ofhis offices and, 
in the process. said there was no at­
tack on his house. 
He characterized th(: report, from 
sources whose reports in the past 
have been accurate, as "completely 
a lie, don't believe it." Then he said 
there would be no news conference, 
and told reporters to leave. 
Reponers who drove by his house last night saw no evidence of damage but security men prevented r~porters from getting a close look. 
The police sources said the cars used in the attack -a white Peugeot and an orange Fiat 12S -were believed to be the same vehicles used by armed men who assaulted two police stations in Cairo on Satur­day. 
The official Libyan news agency 
]ANA had reported Saturday that Egyptian guerrillas raided the Shubra police barracks Friday after­noon and that a number of people were killed or wounded. 
]ANA in reports in the Libyan capi­tal ofTripoli, also reported Saturday that Egyptian "patriotic guerrillas" had blown up two major railroad lines. 
An Egyptian security official said authorities are seeking two more suspects in connection with Sadat's assassination during a military parade in Nasr City, a suburb of Cairo. 
The government has insisted that only four men -three civilians in army uniforms and an artillery lieutenant -had participated in the attack against Sadat. 

Thatcher condemns latestIRA attack 
LONDON (AP)-Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher yesterday took flowers to the soldiers and civilians wounded by the IRA's bomb attack on a busload ofIrish Guards and con­demned the bombing as a "cold, cal­lous, brutal and sub-human thing." 
"I shall never, never give them political status -never,'' Mrs. Thatcher said of the outlawed Irish Republican Army, which claimed responsibility for Saturday's deadly bombing. Scotland Yard said the at­tack, which came exactly one week after the collapse of the IRA's 7­month-long hunger strike in North­
attached to a van set off the explo­sion as a bus carrying 23 Irish Guards back from duty at the Tower of london passed by, authorities said. 
A 62-year-old widow passerby was killed and 38 other people, including 22 of the guardsmen and two children aged 2 and 5, were wounded in the shower ofnails from the bomb and glass and debris flying from nearby buildings. Witnesses said nails pierced some of the vic­tims in the face, head and body. 
Thirteen people, including 10 sol­diers and the wife of one of them, 

ern lrel~nd's Maze Prison, could were still hospitalized yesterday. A
portrayal of his client, pending next month's court ap­women in our society." signal the start of a new terror cam­Defense Ministry spokesman said
pearance. But contained in the appeal is this statement: "it will do no good to search for villains or heroes in this 
See HARRIS, page 4 paign1n the British capital. Guerrillas using a command wire See THATCHER, page 3 case, for there are only victims -Dr. Tarnower dead 


News Brie/§
8 
by The Observer and The Assoczated Press 
A National Awardfor distinguished preaching will be established as a memorial to Fr. William A. Toohey, director of campus ministry, who died Oct. 13, 1980. 
Fr. Toohey earned a master's degree from Northwestern Univer­sity in communications and public speaking and taught homiletics at Holy Cross College in Washington, D. C. from 1962 to 1968. He joined the Notre Dame faculty in 1968, the same year he served as president ofthe Christian Preaching Conference. 
The annual award was decided upon by Fr. Toohey's co-workers and friends after the University's trustees set aside funds to be used as a memorial to the priest, whose own sermons in Sacred Heart Ghurch during his ten years as head ofcampus ministry were widely acclaimed. 

Bowing to a demand by Solidarity's congress, the Communist government offered yesterday to include representatives of the independent union on a commission to solve the country's food crisis. The government annou.1ced however, at the same time, that more price hikes will be necessary by next month. The conciliatory gesture came as Polish consumers 
thn:atened another round of strikes to protest food shortages, and amid reports of panic-buying of gasoline in Warsaw. Poland's economy is shackled with a foreign debt estimated at S23 billion to S27 billion, chronic shortages, a fall in coal exports and rationing on most goods. Past government attempts to bring the price of goods more in line with the cost of producion have sparked strikes and violent protests. Solidarity, the first independent union in the Soviet bloc, was formed during one of those protests last year. -AP 
Egypt's "foremost friend" in the Middle East is 
the United States, according to a statement made yesterday by American Secretary of State Alexander Haig. Haig also predicted a reconciliation soon between Egypt and Saudi Arabia. He also said the United States would become more involved in the Mideast as a result of President Anwar Sadat's assassination, "demonstrating that it is not fatal to be an ally of the United States." "We're going to have to show our presence here from time to time," Haig added. Haig talked with Egyptian President-designate Hosni Mubarak for nearly an hour yesterday in their second meeting since the Haig arrived Friday at the head of the U.S. delegation to Sadat's funeral. "The United States intends to work actively with our friends in the region, and foremost among those is the government ofEgypt and the people ofEgypt, for whom our friendship and respect have been deepened by this tragedy," Haig said. "We would welcome closer relationship be­tween Egypt and Saudi Arabia," Haig said. "I do not expect this will be too difficult in the weeks ahead." Saudi Arabia's conservative government and most other Arab regimes severed diplomatic ties with Egypt because ofthe Egyptian-Israeli peace pact. -AP 
The Soviet Uniongovernment issued an official state­ment early today accusing the United States of exerting "gross pressure" on Egypt by alerting American military forces after the assassination of President Anwar Sadat. In an unusual move, a dis­patch by the official Tass news agency said, "The. Soviet government resolutely condemns U.S. attempts at interfering in an any way in the internal affairs of the Arab Republic of Egypt. "What is happening around Egypt cannot but affect the interests of the Soviet Union's security and it will attentively follow the development of events." The statement, apparently written by top Kremlin leaders, did not refer directly to the assassination Tuesday nor did it specify how developments in Egypt involved Soviet security. Tass occasionally prints "Tass statements" that serve as major Soviet policy 

pronouncements, but it rarely carries direct government-to· government communications. It began today's dispatch by saying, "The following statement by the government of the U.S.S.R. to the government of the U.S.A. has been issued here." A U.S. Embassy spokesman said he had "no comment" on the statement. -AP 
Barred from Anwar Sadat's funeral to 
ensure the security of foreign dignitaries, Egyptians were allowed for the first time yesterday to visit the place where their president died and was laid to rest. Children poked curious fingers into the bullet holes and their fathers shook their heads and asked how it could have happened. A few women wore black and someone had a tape of the fatal gunfire. It was the first time authorities allowed the everyday citizens to inspect the bullet scarred reviewing stand where Sadat was cut down last Tuesday by assassins identified 9y the government as a renegade army officer and three men masquerading 
as soldiers in the annual military parade. Authorities say the killers are linked to a cell of Islamic extremists and security sources told The AssociatedPress yesterday that at least two more suspects were being sought. News photos of the attack showed at least four assas­sins within point-blank range ofthe president, firing repeatedly from the chest-high marble barrier five feet from Sadat's body. The government has not explained how Sadat's security melted away in the face of the assault. The United States reportedly spent 1!25 mil­lion to train and equip the president's bodyguards. -AP 
Highs today in the upper 60s. Increasingly cloudy tonight. Lows in the low 50s. -AP 
Monday, October 12, 1981 -page 2 

The Power ofAssassins 
Everyone knows it now. Another world leader, An­war Sadat, was killed last week and buried Saturday. Struck down in a military parade by what Egyptian au­thorities termed an "isolated" group of four soldiers, a man whose main concern was peace has been killed in a violent manner. 
According to a story by Associated Press Writer Steven K. Hindy, Sadat was reviewing troops during a holiday celebrating Egypt's 1973 "victroy over Israel," when the assassination occurred. Tanks, helicopters and jets were assembHng for Sadat's review when the lead tank, a Soviet-made T-62, "swiveled its turret and lowered its gun to Sadat's level as it rumbled by." Dis­tracted by the jets above, Sadat probably didn't see his assassins as they left the tank, thro'Ying grenades into the stands and bombarding the platform with machine­gun fire. Along with Sadat, seven others were killed and 27 were wounded. Yet, the power of the assassins had just begun. . 
When news of such violence is announced, it reminds one of the other terrors that have happened throughout history, especially those which have hap­pened in one's lifetime. To me, this attack brings back memories of the assassinations of brothers John and Robert Kennedy, Martin Lut­

I just wonder where fascination replaced anger. I just don't know why the public is so often more concerned with the motivations behind so violent an act than an­gered because ofit. I'm not telling Americans to run and lynch the next assassin, but it's important to think about the injustice that has happened, and will probably con­tinue to happen, when one person decides to take the life ofanother. 
It's also important to think of hov.· assassins' actions force one to summarize the condition of the world. When another leader is killed. or another bomb ex­plodes (assassins don't always kill with guns), or anoth­er violence, whatever its form, occurs, one tends to assume the world is "a mess" in such a hopeless state that peace can never be achieved. When that assump­
tion is made, the assassins 
her King) r. and the shooting have become too powerful. of Gov. George Wallace, as They have not only taken a well as the senseless life but they have taken away violence that occurred the spirit and faith· of during the past year. Sadat's thousands, possibly millions 
murder reminds me of the of people. The first injustice cruelness of Mark David is uncontrollable, but the Chapman's shots which second can be stopped. killed singer John Lennon; The assassins do not have 
Chapman destroyed not on­the right to destroy hope. ly musical legend, but also They may continue to take took away a husband, father away lives, but they should and friend. Sadat's death not be allowed to destroy conjured further memories the public's perspective of of the fear thousands of the entire world. Think Americans experienced about and realize the use­when President Ronald lessness of their actions, but Reagan was shot, and of the don't allow their violence to anger and confusion the overpower your hopes for a world felt when Pope John better world. Don't give the 

Paul II was attacked in Rome. 
After every assassination or attempted assassination, most ofthe world thinks about the ramifications ofthe murder (for Sadat, what will happen to peace in the Middle East; for the president as to what will become of the nation's security; for the pope in his peace-seeking missions), but people aren't angered enough about the basic action that has occurred: a human life has been taken by someone else who had no right to begin to assume the responsibilities ofanother's death. 
Who do the assassins think they are? They certainly receive plenty of attention after their actions. Newspapers, television, authors of screenplays and books give assassins all the glory they could ever desire. And the public listens, too. The motivations ofthe assas­sins actions are sought; their lives become a challenge ofanalysis, and their trials are followed with a fever uni­maginable, a fever that lasts a long time (recently Lee Harvey Oswald's body was exhumed to guarantee the tomb did contain the body ofJFK's assassin, a murder that occurred almost 20 years ago). 
assassins that powe!. 
Observer notes.______, 
The Observer is always looking for new repor­
ters. Ifyou like to write and can devote a few hours 
each week to reporting, visit our offices on 
LaFortune's third floor. Talk to one of our news 
editors. They'll be happy to help you get started. 
We also have openings for late-night production workers. Prior experience is not necessary; we will train applicants. Promotion to paid positions depends on the quality ofwork. 
The Observer newsroom welcomes information leading to the investigation of crimes in the Notre Dame-Saint Mary's community. If you have wit­nessed a crime that should be reported, call our offices at 283-8661 or 1715. All sources are guaranteed confidentiality. 
The Observer is your newspaper. Comments and constructive criticism are appreciated. Stop by our LaFortune office, give us a call or drop a line to The Obse-·ver, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556. 
r--The_Ohs.er.xer_ 
Design Editor...................... lisa Bontempo Typesetter ............................ Stephen Brown News Editor.............. . ........ Kdli Flint Copy Editor... Paula Grows, Paul Mcginn Sports Copy Editor........ Mark Hannuksda 
Typist .................................... )ohn McCarthy Systems Control ................... Bruce Oakky ND Day Editor................... ..... David Grote SMC Day Editor....................... Cecc Batiks Ad Design .................................. Fran & Shag Photographer ......................... Cheryl Ertel! Guest Appearances Daw (new job) Rick· ety, The Reston Rambler 
rz:==:=:=z::::==:::z:==:::~=:::~=::::=~==:::~==~=::::=~:::~=~ 
~~ Medical School Ill 

Applicants 
We have placed hundreds of students into the best foreign medical schools... including St. George's University in Grenada, world's highest ECFMG average English speaking school. Personal, professional, effective since 1975. 
Pay.....2!l!.y on acce12tance. Call or write for our 1981 Bulletin describing how we can help you obtain a quality medical education. 
~{f!'IA,/\J\(2{? ~3~~~~1~nal
•,,V..t11Lt\!0,~~ Corporation 
Flonda office 2119 Embassy Dnve. West. Palm Beach Fl 33401 New York off1ce 117-01 Park Lane South. Kew Gardens N Y 11418 
(305) 683-6222 (212) 441-7074 

:-:·:~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-:-: 
:~:~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:::;;;:;::::::~ 
Editorial Board and Department Managers 



====Ihe=o~~~==== 
'Editor-in-Chief..............................)ohn McGrath Photo Editor........................................John Macor
Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
News Editor ..................................-Tim Vercellotti

The Observer is an independem newspaper published by rhe srudenr~ of the University of Notre Dame duLac and Saim Mary's College. lr does nor neces~anly 
News Editor.............................................Kelli Flint Business Manager .........................Rich Coppola Controller............................................ .)oe Mulflur
reflect the policies of the administration of either insrirurion. The news is reponed Sports Editor ..............................Michael Ortman as accurately and as objectively as possible. Editorials represent the opinion of a Features Editor..........................Anthony Walton Advertising Manager ...........................Mark Ellis majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, opmions, and letters are rhe v1ew~ SMC Executive Editor........... Mary Agnes Carey Production Manager ...................Michael Monk of their authors. Column space is available to all members of rhe community, and SMC News Editur....................•.Cathy Domanico Circulation Manager .............Tom MacLennan rhe free expression of varying opinions on campus, through lerrers. is encouraged. 
The Observer Monday, October 12, 1981 -page 3 

......... 

···················~ 

Students explore Neighborhood Roots I • 
By ROGER WILKE 
News Staff 
Over 100 Notre Dame and Saint 
Mary's students participated in the 
Neighborhood Roots program last 
Thursday evening. 
The purpose: of the program was 
to lcarn about the neighborhoods of 
South Bcnd. 
The: tour took the students and 
othcr participants through a cross­
section of neighborhoods, offering 
examplcs of aftlucnt, middle class, 
ethnic and dccaying arcas ofthe city. 
After the tour, the: students dined 
on a Hungarian meal and discussed 
the tour. the role of neighborhoods, 
and the University programs ofcom· 
munity service, experiential and in 
class lcarning. 
The program began with a tour of 
the various neighborhoods of the 
city. The upper dass Ranch Acres 
area was one of the first stops. 
Studcnts thcn visitcd Oakmont Park, a middlc income neighbor­hood. 
Rum Village:, a Hungarian neigh­borhood, and St. Casimir's -a Polish arca -followed. 
The tour condudc:d with a drive through the: decaying area of Ohio Avenue:. 
The Observer (USPS 598 920) IS published Monday through Friday and on home football Saturdays. except dunng exam and vacat1on penods. The Observer IS published by the students of Notre Dame and Sam! Mary's Col­lege Subscriptions may be purchased for $25 per year ($15 per semester) by wntmg The Observer. P.O. Box 0. Notre Dame. Indiana 46556 
The Observer is a member of The Associated Press All reproduction rights are reserved. 
Second class postage paid at Notre Dame. Indiana 46556. 
=The Obsener= seeks appliconts lor 


position 
of 

Editorials Editor 
Inquire: John 8661 



Thursday 

IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIUJIIII••~n·i 
Rocco's Hair Styling ; 531 N. Michigan St) South Bend 
Phone-233-4957 





l------~-·-·----J 
OMING SOON I 

The Observer-= ;1 r 
······················~ 

After the: tour of the: city, the: group visited Our Lady of Hungary Church. Fr. Thomas Molnar showed the: visi!Ors murals and stained glass windows in the: church and then invited the students 10 the cafeteria for a Hung .arian meal featuring goulash and fric:d chicken. 
During dinner, South Bend Mayor Roger Parent spoke: on the effect of neighborhoods on the: city, emphasizing that the success of tht. 

. Thatcher 
continuedfrom page 1 
two of the soldiers were in serious 
condition. 
Mrs. Thatcher toured the scene of 
the blast -outside Chelsea Army 
Barracks less than a mile from Buck­
ingham Palace -before visiting the 
injured at St. Thomas and 
Westminster hospitals. 
Visibly upset, she pulled a 6 inch nail from the shattered van used in the bombing and said later, "These pcople arc just criminals without rcgard for human life and limb." 
Standing on the hospital steps. 
..•••• ...
... 

inner city areas depends on the resi­dents' attitudes toward their area. 
Prof. Irwin Press gave an overview ofthe tour, noting the significance of each neighborhood students stopped in. 
Prof. John Roos followed with a talk on "neighborhood cycles". "Neighborhoods tend to follow a pattern of growth, prosperity and eventual decline," he said. 
Mrs. Thatcher said, "The people who did this were murderers, mur­derers. This was the most brutal at­tack I have ever seen." 
The New York-based Noraid (Northern Ireland Aid) organization has raised S2SO,OOO for the IRA since March I, when the IRA launched its hunger strike. Ten men died in the fast demanding privileges for jailed Irish nationalists privileges the British government said would amount to political prisoner status, thereby legitimizing the IRA's violent campaign to end British rule in Northt:"rn lrt:!arl(l 
When You Choose American Hospital Supply Corporation You Have A Choice! 

Multiple Divisions: 26 diversified divisions contributing products and services to the expanding health care industry. 
Geographical Lm .ions: American Hospital Supply Corporation maintains sales and distribution centers in 91 cities throughout the United States with 59 additional locations around the world. Presently there are 92 manufacturing locations in the U.S. and other countries. 
Lifestyle: Depending on the geographical lo~ation and career direction you choose. 
Career Direction: You'll have many ways of contributing to the health care industry in the following areas: 
Accounting/ Finance/Operations Sales/Distribution /Marketing 
If you seek a company in which you do indeed have a choice, come 
to our informal career seminar on: 
Monday, October 12, 1981 
7:00pm 
Alumni Room-Morris Inn 
Refreshments served 
Presentation by Dan O'Hara, Vice President-Class of '74 
We are an equal opportunity employer m/f 
American Hospital Supply Corporation 

The Observer Monday, October 12, 1981 -page 4 
... Harris 

University President Fr. Theodore Hesburgh was presented a plaque last night by the residents ofAlumni Hall. The plaque com· memorated 30 years ofservice to Notre Dame, and was presented after Mass last night in the hall chapel. The presentation also marked the celebration of Alumni Hall's 50th anniversary. On hand for the presentation were (left to right) Fr. George Rozum, Alumni rector; Mark Cecil, hall president; Fr. Hesburgh; andjohn 
Green. 
I I I I 
I I I I I an I 
I I 
I campus I I miniStry I 
I I I 
ANNUfL FOUNDER'S DAY MASS 
F E A S T 0 F S T. E D WAR D 
5:00 PM -October 13 
Sacred Heart Church 
Presider: Fr. Len Banas, C.S.C. Homilist: Fr. Tom Blantz, C.S.C. 
I ... ----------,-·----------­
1 I 
I I I I I I I I I I I I 

continuedfrompage 1 
Mrs. Trilling noted Tarnower's 
many affairs, about which Mrs. Har­
ris was "well acquainted" during 
their 16-year relationship. 
!'Sexual variety was the pattern of 
Tarnower's life, its boast really, 
which he protected by bachelor­
hood," Mrs. Trilling writes. "It was 
obviously one of Tarnower's 
pleasures that his women should be 
aware ofeach other." 
Denied Tarnower's exclusive 
love, Mrs. Harris turned to money 
and sta'tus, and in that arena the pair 
mutually used each other, M(s. Trill­
ing said. 

Tarnower was a "vain, self­important" man whose insecurity about being an Eastern European Jew led him to cultivate German Jewish friends and take middle-class respectability from Mrs. Harris' WASPishness, Mrs. Trilling writes. 
For her part, Mrs. Harris never made it among the WASPs of her native Middle West, but "was making it beautifully among the 
Jews (of New York)," Mrs. Trilling writes. 
Mrs. Trilling's parents were Jews forced out of Poland, and she in­sisted the "German Jewish-Eastern European jewish thing is real." 
Mrs. Trilling suggested that in the 
NEED A RIDE TO NEW JERSEY? OR HOW ABO-UT NEW YORK CITY? 
THE NEW JERSEY BUS 
will get you there The bus bus stops in East Brunswick, N. ]. and the Port Authority in Manhattan. Approximately-15 seats remain. The Round-Trip-Only ticket costs $73. Buses will return before noon on Friday, Oct. 23. 
Call Bod Bob Ritger at 283-1141 for more information. 
l(..N] Club Members ¥ 

Tailgater will be at the Navy game not USC. 
end, Jcan Harris was seduced not by Herman Tarnower, but by her desires for money, social class, sex and a love she never found. 
She rationalized her lengthy liaison by telling herself Tarnower was worthy ofher love, Mrs. Trilling said. When he ended the relation­ship, the realization that she had betrayed her moral values and received nothing in return came crashing down, she continued. · 
"She'd been seduced by our 
continuedfrom page 1 

here, and we didn't have as many clothes. I have also noticed thai over in Alumni Hall this year there is a boy who has a computer. I think this is the wave ofthe future. Computers will probably be very common around here within the next five years. (Dedrick) We're trying to address the public facilities, study space and social space in each dor­mitory. Unfortunately, we are not able to accomplish all that we believe is necessary in these areas as quickly as we would like. In the last three years. however, we have done present-day culture into believing that a free sexuality is anyone's for the taking, that one can throw over one's moral rearing without emo­tional consequences," writes. 
She said the Harris case is impor­tant to present day culture. 
"This was a mature woman, not a youngster carried away by some wild passion," she said. "Ifshe could do it, it's just as if we were saying, 'look what human nature is capable 
Qf."' 

Q&A 
quite a lot in terms of adding social space, study space, and beds. 
Q: Will these renovations leave less space to house students? 
A: (Dedrick) Definitely not. When you renovate an old building, you tend to find new space; you rework the old space in such a manner that 
you use it more efficiently. We are actually finding space. ( Heppen) We also have a general rule that the ar­chitects follow to delegate square footage per student, which we use as an overall guide in any of these renovation projects. 





Sports Brie/§ 
by The Ohserwr and Tht' A.rsociated Prnr 

The Seminole harriers shut out the Irish cross country team 40-1 5 in a dual meet Saturday at the Burke Memorial Golf Course. Herb Wills paced the Seminoles, who took the first five places. The top two Irish runners were Ed Willenbrink and Marc Wozniak, who finished in sixth and seventh place. The Irish lost their top runner, Ralph Caron, for about a month when he suffered a hamstring pull early in the race. -The Observer 
The Wind-Surfing Club will have a meeting t<imorrow at 9 p.m. in the Grace pit after Digger Phelps speaks. All members who placed orders for club T-Shirts should bring their money. Michigan Championship T-shirts will also be raftled off. 
The Observer 
Sharon Petro's women's tennis team captured its second consecutive Indiana Division II state championship this weekend by winning eight of nine individual titles. Notre Dame finished the weekend competition with 35 points, 15 better than Butler and Franklin, which tied for second. Irish players reached the championship round in all nine brackets, and only No. 4 singles player Carol Shukis emerged without a triumph. Three freshmen ­lisa LaFratta (No. I), Laura Lee (No. 5) and Lisa Gleason (No.6) won straight set finals in the singles competition. Sophomore Pam Fis­hette won her second straight singles title with a 6-0, 6-0 thrashing of Franklin's janet Muston in No. 3 singles. -The Observer 
Monday, October 12, 1981 -page 5 

RECEIVING -Flonda State: Michael Whiting 5­ West  
44; Phil Williams 2-28: D~innon 2-11: Rick  Denver  5  1  0 .833  133  75  
Stockstill1-14: Zeke Mowatt1-9; Ricky Williams 1-8.  San D1ego  4  2  0 .667  193  153  
Notre Dame: Greg Bell2-25; John Mosley 1-9: Tony  Kansas City  4  2  0 .667  151  132  
Hunter 1-5: Bern1e Adell1-2; Blair K1e11-minus 3.  Oakland  2  4  0  333  63  89  

Saturday'a Game  Attendance ­· 59,075  Seattle  5  0  .167  85  136  
FlondaState 0 3 10 6 1& Notre Dame 3 0 3 7 13 Scoring NO-Harry Oliver, 43-yard FG FSU-Mike Rendma, 25-yard FG NO-Oliver, 23-yard FG FSU -Michael Whiling, 17-yard pass from Rick Stockstill (Rendina kick) FSU-Rendina, 23-yard FG NO-Greg Bell, t-yard run (Oliver kick) FSU -Whiting, 5-yard pass from Stockstill (kick failed) FSU NO First downs 19 15 Rush1ng attempts 43 51 Net Yards Rushing 250 218 Net Yards Passing 114 38 Passes camp-attempted 12-28 6-19­Had Intercepted 0 0 Total Net Yards 364 256 Fumbles-lost 2-0 4-1 Penalties-yards 5-69 8-72 Punts~ average 6-49 8-43 Individual Leaders RUSHING-Flonda State: R1cky W1ll1ams 15-135; Michael Whlt1ng 15-71: Greg Allen 7-54: Rohn Stark 1-10; R1ck Stockstill5-mlnus 20. Notre Dame. Greg Bell25-120: John Sweeney 5-29: Larry Moriarty 5-23: Mark Brooks 1-12; Bla~r K1el4-9:  NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE NATIONAL CONFERENCE East w L T Pet. PF PA Philadelphia 6 0 01.000 140 67 Dallas 4 2 0 .667 140 123 N.Y. Giants 3 3 0 .500 105 97 St. Louis 2 4 0 .333 108 151 Washington 5 0 .167 101 156 Central M1nnesota 4 2 0 .667 136 146 Tampa Bay 4 2 0 .667 117 90 Detro1t 2 4 0 .333 118 126 Green Bay 2 4 0 .333 106 140 Chicago 5 0 167 89 133 West Los Angeles 4 2 0 .667 160 131 San Francisco 4 2 0 .667 157 120 Atlanta 3 3 0 .500 157 115 New Orleans .1 5 0 .167 64 136 AMERICAN CONFERENCE East w L T Pet. PF PA M1ami 4 0 1 .900 125 83 Buffalo 3 2 0 .600 127 67 N.Y. Jets 2 3 1 .417 129 169 New England 1 5 0 .167 130 149 Baltimore 5 0 .167 106 186  Yesterday's Results Pittsburgh 13, Cleveland 7 Los Angeles 37, Atlanta 35 N.Y. Jets 28, New England 24 Philadelphia 31. New Orleans 14 C1ncinnat1 41, Baltimore 19 Kansas City 27, Oakland 0 Houston 35, Seattle 17 Tampa Bay 21, Green Bay 10 Wash1ngton 24, Chicago 7 San Francisco 45, Dallas 14 Denver 27, Detro1t 21 Minnesota 33, San D1ego 31 N.Y. Giants34, St. Louis 14 Tonight's Games Miam1 at Buffalo Sunday'a Games Buffalo at N.Y. Jets Houston at New England New Orleans at Cleveland Philadelphia at Mmnesota Pittsburgh at C1nc1nnati St. LoUis at Atlanta San Franc1sco vs. Green Bay at Milwaukee Washington at Miam1 San D1ego at Balt1more Tampa Bay at Oakland  
Tony Hunter 2-1, T1m Koegel2-minus 10.  Central  N.Y. Giants at Seattle  
PASSING -Florida State: Rick Stockstill 11-27­ C1ncinnat1  4  2  0 .667  153  131  Denver at Kansas C1ty 
3,100; Cednc Jones 1-1-0.14: Notre Dame: T1m Koegel3-9-1,24: Bla~r K1el2-9-1,17; John Mosley 1­ Pittsburgh Houston  2 0 .667 2 • 0 .667  141 111 115 99  Los Angeles at Dallas, n Monday'a Games  
1-0.minus3  Cleveland  2  4  0 .333  88  127  Ch1cago at Detro1t. n  


The Observer will accept classifieds Mon­day through Friday, 10 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. However, classifieds to appear in the next issue must be received by 3 p.m. the business day prior to insertion. All classifieds must be prepaid, 
either in person or through tl1e maiL


Classifieds 
NOTICES ] 
USED BOOK SHOP. HOURS WED , SAT. SUN. 9-7 CASPERSON, 1303 BUCHANAN AD , NILES. 
OVERSEAS JOBS · Summer/year round. Europe, S.Amer.. Australia, Asia. All fields. $500-$1200 monthly. Sightsee­Ing. Free info. Wrne IJC, Box 52-IN-4, Corona Del Mar, CA 92625. 
MORRISSEY LOAN FUND Student loans. $20-$200. One percent in­terest Due in one month. One day wait. Open M-F, 11:30-12:30 in LaFortune Basement. 
rLOST/FOUN!8 
LOST: a two-tone blue sweattacket Reward, call Vince x1238 
LOST: TWO GOLD RINGS AT THE ROCK. EXTREME SENTIMENTAL VALUE. IF YOU HAVE ANY INFORMA­TION, PLEASE CALL CINDY -3141. 
LOST: SMC CLASS RING (pinkie), Ini­tials RMS. Reward. Call287-2405. 
LOST: Brown umbrella in room 366 of Old Cham. Bldg. Call288-9322. 
FOUND: Hat last Sat., Oct. 3, during play at O'Laughlin Theatre at St. Mary's. Call 288-9322 if yours. 
FOUND: Lady's watch 1n front of Badin Halt. Call 8593 and ident1ly. 
TO WHOMEVER FOUND MY CHECK­BOOK: I HAVE STOPPED ALL THE CHECKS: THEY ARE NO GOOD TO YOU. MY NAME IS ON THE CHECKS: YOU KNOW WHO I AM. PLEASE EITHER RETURN THE CHECKBOOK TO THE NOTRE DAME CREDIT UNION OR CALL ME AT 287-7157 
LOST A GREEN 60/40 PARKA SHELL 
JACKET. IT IS FOREST GREEN. HAS A 
HOOD. AND IS MONOGRAMMED 
SET" ON THE BREAST POCKET IT WAS A GIFT FROM MY LATE SISTER AND HAS GREAT SENTIMENTAL AS WELL AS PRACTICAL VALUE. IF YOU HAVE INFORMATION ABOUT THE JACKET, OR IF YOU HAVE THE JACK­ET, PLEASE CALL SCOTT AT 287-7157. NO QUESTIONS ASKED! 
I jUSt want to thank the person who took my jacket from the dining hall and tried to sell it back to me. I was willing to pay you lor it, but tw1ce, you never showed up. II you are the same person who called up and did the same thing to the girl with the purse and the kid with the sweatshirt, I think that I speak lor all of us in saying that you are probably the lowest form of life that can exist. I don't understand what you are going to do with a tacket like mine be­cause you certainly can't wear it and nobody else but me would buy it from you. II you still have my Jacket or any of the other stuff, I hope that you will seriously consider g1ving It to lost & found, or arranging to return it. I can't understand how playing games like this turns you on, but your cheap thrills have come at the expense of others. I hope that soon you will sit back and just think about how low you have been stooping. You are nothing, but a loser. 
FOR RENT 
Student housing -clean, sale, laundry, kitchen, rated supenor. $100 includes all. 291-1405. 
One bedroom, furnished apt. near NO. Newly decorated, private entrance, $165/month. Call255-8505 or 259-4629. 
Furn1shed House...Nice area.. .Walk to ND...Jim 3234 
ROOMMATE WANTED. NOTRE DAME AVE. APTS .. HAVE YOUR OWN ROOM! ON BUS ROUTE, FIVE BLOCKS FROM CAMPUS: KITCHEN, BAR, CABLE TV. BE FIRST TO CALL 288-4170 NITES. 
Male roommate needed lor lurn~shed apartment near NO. $110/month. Utilities pa1d. 287-5469. 
WANTED 
Two wild g~rls need ride to Gainesville, Fla. (or general VICinity) lor October break. Will share $ and gas. Can leave anyt1me. Call Pam or Sus1e (and they'll leave a message lor the wild g~rls) at 41­5236. 
W1ll pay b1g bucks lor 2 to 4 G.A. Navy tickets-please help-call Glenn at3387. 
Need nde to COLORADO Springs. WILL SHARE USUAL Call MARK 288-5208. 
Riders needed anywhere along 1-,57 to Memphis area for break. Please call Laura at6896 a.s.a.p. 
HELP! HELP! HELP! MUST get G.A. s and Student tix lor GA TECH game!! PLEASE call Stephanie at 4347 to get top dollar for your tixll 
Need 2 riders to NYC or VICimty leaving Oct. 14 AM. Call Eileen 4602 or Donna 4455. 
YO! I need riders to Philadelphia. I'll be leaving this place on Oct.16. If you're in­terested, call Fran at 4385. If I'm not in, leave your name and number. 
Need ride to NJ/NY OR ATLANTA lor break. Call Michael233-2969. 
PLEASE-Need ride to Minneapolis/St. Paul lor Oct. Break. Call Helene 41-4964. 
I Need a ride to Long Island. Can leave Oct. 14 or after. Jim 3234. 
Need ride to BOSTON or PROVIDENCE Oct. break call Janet 4501 at SMC. 
NEEDED: Law student with insurance license to market ABA/LSD group In­surance plan. 
Need ride to Minneapolis lor October break. Like to return lor USC game. Will share expenses. Call 1338. 
NEED 2 ($.A.'s lor GA TECH. Big $$$. Call EILEEN 6620. 
Ride needed to Baltimore or Annapolis for October Break, will share all costs...etc. CALL DAVE 232-3181. 
Need nde to CANTON or CLEVELAND for break. Please call Cindy at2917. 
Need nders to Canton and along 1-77 to W.Va. Call Tom at 1143. 
2 g~rls need to be dropped off on 1-80 an hour west of Davenport. Will travel light and pay gas. Please call 2967 Sarah & Monica. 
Need ride to DALLAS lor Oct break. Louis 3160. 
FOR SALE 
ATTENTION 
PHOTOGRAPHERS FOR SALE: An Omega B-22 enlarger w1th copy stand and 36 column. Th1s is just the condenser head and copy stand No tense included, but head takes any standard Omega enlarger tense. Pnce: $25. Call John Macor at1715 or 8661 and leave your name and number. 
TICKETS 
I 
Penn St. ticket wanted. Please call Donna at6771. 
Will pay top$ lor NO-USC game tickets. Need 6 tickets, best location ava1lable.­Please call collect (714) 835-6505 ask for Tony Herenda or Judi Carlos. 
Need three GA's lor USC ... please help 
call3691. 
NEED 2 GA TIX TO USC. WILL PAY 
WELL CALL RAY AT 8371. 
Have lour Navy GA's. Will sell. Call Bill at x8251. 
TOP DOLLAR FOR USC GA CALL SUE (SMC) 4889. 
DESPERATE ALUMNI NEEDS GOOD TICKETS TO USC GAME CALL COL­LECT (BEFORE 2PM): JOHN DE ROSA (213)485-1100. 
PENN ST. TIX: WILL BUY PSU TIX OR TRADE FOR USC GA'S. BILL 80 212­759-4846. 
2 to 4 G.A. U.S.C. tickets needed ­
please help-call Glenn at 3387. 
SC GA tx needed. Call Mike 3686. 
PROMINENT CHICAGO STOCK­BROKER NEEDS 10 USC GAS. WILL PAY SUBSTANTIAL PREMIUM. CALL 312-621-3799 COLLECT. ASK FOR TED. 
j~i,· sFiE.t.:l<. o~ct. ;~ b;~~ki~g ~~~ ~~ ~~i,· to 
see the NAVY game. I need two GA's lor that game. Please help Call Lynn at6766. 
Need 2 USC GAs$$ M1ke 1502. 
THE SMITH HILL GANG needs tiCkets for Notre Dame's date with the TroJans. Con­Siderable money will be spent to watch the show. Call Mike 0. at 8896 and earn some easy bucks. 
DESPERATELY NEED USC TIX. CALL PETE 233-8091. 
NEED GA TX FOR ANY GAME. CALL 4436SMC. 
NEEDED: 4 USC GA's 1n order to save me. Call M1ck 1178 
'Need USC and Navy GAs urgently. Call Chns 1222. 
NEED SEVERAL GA'S FOR GEORGIA TECH!?! MAKE SOME DOMERS HAP­py -CALL 1 009 
HELPIII DESPERATELY NEED GA'S FOR USC. CALL4687 SMC. 

NEED 1 GA TECH GA. CALL JENNY 8026. 
HELP!! Homes1ck g~rl wants to see parents who won·t come unless they get 
G. A. tix for Navy. Will pay$$$. Call Kathy 6997. 
DESPERATE for 3 G.A. USC tix. Call MARK 1074. 
will trade 2 to 4 GAs to USC lor 2 to 4 GAs to PENN ST. Call AL-3549 
GEORGIA TECH GAs need 2 Or 4 call ED 1068 
Need t1x for Penn St. or fat man w111 s1t on me. Call Brian at 1777. 
HELP! In d~re need of 4 USC student or GA's and 2 NAVY GA's IIX. Call Matt at 1652. 
4 GA's needed for Navy or Georgia Tech. Paul x3370. 
HELP!! I need PSU tickets. Will pay bucks and/or trade lor a nde out to PSU. Call Fran at 4385. 
NEEDED! At least 4 USC GA tickets for my lam1ly. Please contact Colleen at 41­4408 
Need 2 GA. TECH G.A. s. Will trade 2 NAVY G.A. ·s or pay CASH. ALEX ­X6931. 
Going home over Fall Break? Will pay many b1lls for your USC student ticket. Call F1tz x3569. 
MEGA-BUCKS!!! I need 2 NAVY GA'S. Leave message for PAUL at 734;>. 
Need 1 Navy student ticket.. Paul x3370. 
Need 2 GA tix for USC-call1625. 
I need USC tickets (student or GA) lor out­of-town friends!! Please call Jane at6614 or 7704 (or 277-1079 after9 PM)!!! 
DESPERATELY NEED TWO USC STU­DENT TIX-BROTHERS WILL KILL IF THEY DON'T SEE GAME. CALL CHRIS AT 1678. 
WILL PAY UP TO $50-60 (OR MORE) FOR USC GAS. CALL CHRIS 1222 BEFORE BREAK PLEASE!! 
DESPERATELY NEED 2 NAVY GAs CAN TRADE 2 USC STUDENT TIX CALL JIM AT 1067 
PERSONALS 
DARBYS PLACE IS OPEN TONIGHT FROM MIDNIGHT UNTIL THREE. IN THE LAFORTUNE BASEMENT 
NAVY GA DESPARATELY NEEDED IMMED. WILL PAY ANYTHING Call Mike 8854 
For those of you who missed Michelle 
Meesh" Gilmore's 2oth birthday cards, 
g1fts and kisses at 209 Lew1s. Happy 
belated birthday to that allunng ChEgl 
Where·s the redhead? 
LOST: an adjustable copper nng w1th the words real copper on the 1ns1de. PLEASE call De~rdre at 8013--calllate if you can't rreach me at a reasonable t1me 
LOST: A wh1te jade pendant. It fell off its necklace a week or so ago. PLEASE call De~rdre at 8013--calllate if necessary. 
To LAURA D.IN PE-PULL!IIII 
ATTENTION NO MALES: 
SO YOU THINK THAT STANFORD'S 
THE ONLY ONE WHO CAN THROW A 
PORTA-PARTY?? BEWARE--THE 
PORTA-BROWNIE IS COMING!! YOU 
HAVE BEEN FOREWARNED.. 
PART TIME OPPORTUNITY AVAILABLE CALL ANYTIME AFTER 5 
p.m. MONDAY-FRIDAY 259-0019. ASK FOR JERRY KWIATKOWSKI (QUIT­COW-SKI). 
BAGPIPES What are they? How do they work? What Is worn under the kilt? Should Notre Dame have a pipe band? For the answers to these and other questrons (or if you 1ust want to learn to play the bagptpe--no mus1cal expenence re­qUired), come to a meeting October 27 at 
6:30 PM 1n Fitzpatnck 356. Experienced DRUMMERS interested 1n a demonstra­tion of the intncate style of p1pe band 
drumm1ng are also encouraged to attend. If interested tn either p1p1ng or drumming but unable to be at this sess1on, call8878. 
Reserved t1cket on the D.C bus lor Oc­tober break. ROUND TRIP $55 call1360 and ask lor J.B 
Hey G~rls, yesterday wasPHIL RANDAZ­ZO'S B-day. Wish h1m a happy one when you see h1m today! Love, Car 
To those 1n BDBDTC. Don't you think 1t's our turn to party? Break -starts NOW!! Gofor1t!!! 
Hey Ryan, MOOOOOOOOOSE ALERT Heard olany good moose jokes lately? 
It's Arch-it's not me The System 
Congratulations to the future Mrs Pam Cote Williamson II! 
Copy Ed1tors: 
Are you watchrng? The trmes, they are a-chang1ng. So let 11 be wntten; so let 11 be done. 
The System 


MONDAY NIGHT FOOTBALL SPECIAL ._._._..._.._._._._._ .................................................. 

enjoy the game with: -HOT DOGS
7 5 c -ICE COLD DRAITS 
• 
-shots of schnapps 
when your team scores 
--~ 


rrmond(Jy night film serieS(I', 
Monday, October 12 

Vlrldl•n• Directed by Luis Bunuel, 1961 (90 min.) The great Surrealist master Is at It again, this time staging a version of the Last Supper to end all versions. Full of verve, wit, and Insight. 
THE SNITE MUSEUM OF ART 
7:30 pm -admlssion_SJOO 
:sponsoreq by .. , ~D -SMC COMMUNJCATION 8t JHEAJRE~i 


·-~--·-----------~ -·--~­
The Observer-Sports Monday, October 12, 1981 -page 6 
... Playoffs 
50 feet above the 353-foot sign.
Los Angeles opens the league
continuedfrom page 8 

erased a 2-0 Milwaukee lead. It was
championship series at home Tues­day afternoon against MontreaL his 16th post-season homer and
each was retired on a force play. 

The Dodgers will host the Expos second of this series. Gamble on Tuesday afternoon and Wednes­followed with his second ofthe East LOS ANGELES (AP)-Jerry Reuss day night before the best-of-five playoffs, a 400-foot line drive into outpitched Nolan Ryan and the Los championship series move to the right center field bleachers, Angeles Dodgers scored three runs Montreal. chasing Brewers starter Moose Haas, in the sixth inning to soar to their who also lost the playoffopener. third straight victory over the Hous­
NEW YORK (AP) -Reggie Jack-The victory gave the Yankees the 
ton Astros Sunday, winning 4-0, and 

son, New York's celebrated "Mr. Oc-series 3-2 -they won two games in 
qualified for the National League 

tober," and Oscar Gamble smashed Milwaukee, then dropped two in 
championship series. 

consecutive tape-measure home New York-and sent them on to the runs in the fourth inning Sunday AL championship series against their
The Dodgers shelled Ryan -who 

night, rallying the Yankees to a 7-3 ex-manager Billy Martin and his
had allowed only two hits in his pre­


victory over the Milwaukee Brewers Oakland A's. The A's swept Kansas
vious two outings ings against them

Seniorforward Ed O'Malley is engaged in a little incidental con­
and the championship of the City in three games for the West
-in the seventh inning as they won

tact with an unidentified Wisconsin player during yesterday's 2-2 
American League East. Division crown.
the best-of-five divisional series after

tie with the Badgers on Cartier Field. The tie keeps Rich Hunter's 
losing the first two games in Hous­Jac,kson's two-run shot into the The best-of-five series begins at
club unbeaten through 13 games. For more, see story on page 8. 


"IN THE ROUND" 

October 13 BPM Notre Dame A.C.C. 
Choice seating still available 

Tickets now on sale at 
(Photo by Cheryl Ertelt) ton. 
----------------1 

I 52°0 OFF k~s::%?7~
ILarge Sicilian Deep Dish Pizza I 
I Good at Cleveland Road Store I I across from Universtiy Park Mall. I 1277-5300. One coupon per pizza. I 
I Expires Oct. 24, 1981. 1 
r----------------~
I 52°0 OFF I
IAny 16 or 20 -inch Hand Tossed I I Round Pizza 1 ~ 
1Good at Cleveland Road Store I oiJJe~ 
I across from Universit11 Park Mall I OR(~~
J PIZZA 
1277-5300. One coupon per pizza. I 211-s?JXJ 
I Expires Oct. 24, 1981. l~=o:::::::-"':::~-.:::::r-:l....-;r-:;~=--=~~-r-r-:,....­
~----------------Jr~~~~/ 
upper right field stands, more than Yankee Stadium Tuesday night. 
WEEKEND RETREATS


,.-------------------------,I Friday Evening to Sunday Noon I I
House at Lake Michigan 
I 
Dec. 4~6 . . .Prepare Ye the Way of the lnrd (Fr. John Fitzgerald) I 
I 
jan. 22-24 ... Spirituality of Woman 
I (Sr. jane Pitz & Ms. Terry Phelps) I 
jan. 29-31 ... The Road of the Heart's Desires (Fr. john Dunne) I 
I 
Feb. 12-14 ... jesus: God Con Carne (Fr. John Fitzgerald) 
I I
I Mar. 26-28 ... I Have Food of Which You Know Nothing 
I
I (Fr. jim Burtchaell) 
I
I II I
Apr. 23-25 ... Is There life After Commencement?
I I
(Fr. joe Carey et . al.)
I I
I I
$7°0 per person
I II Reservations Begin Tues. Oct. 13th I 
1

._ library Campus Ministry Office I 
-------------------------~ 
ACC Box Office Robertson 's-S?uth Bend & Elkhart Also available by mail-with with check or money order v.· t ('~ Ba k v1z..h rrr payable to :
rtrs uuurce n DK art .1 ruth Notre Dame-Barry Manilow Show St. joseph Bank Suspended Chord in Elkhart Notre Dame , Ind. 46556 You must enclose a self-addressed , stamped envelope State number and price oftickets desired. $15112.50 Reserved at ACC Box 0 ce limit 4 tickets per person. A jam Production 
Ihe~======================================== 




Molarity 




The Daily Crossword 

Michael Molinelli 
Garrv Trudeau 
Jeb Cashin 
64 Red's Pete 24 Soldier's 65 Flemish address tapestry 27 Ticket part 66 "Mary­28 Whetstone, little..." for one 67 Caspian 30 Stolen 
feeder property 68 Quench 31 Rootstock 69 Norwegian 32 Charles 
navigator Lamb 70 Wise 33 Fuel source 71 Anticipated 34 Boxer's 72 Clockmaker weapon 
Thomas 35 Quechuan 73 Quaker 36 Hart pronoun 37 Predicament 
38 -champetre DOWN 42 Furnace Facing the escapee of pitcher the Bible 
2 Trespass 45 Confined 3 Instructor 47 Center or 4 Metric gram 
measure 49 Morse code 5 Evening on word 
the town 52 Yearns 6 Other: Sp. 54 Integument 7 Scorch 55 Pentateuch 8 Signa of 56 Application 
films 57 Conflict 9 Schoolboy's 58 Singer assignments Johnny 10 Comedian 59 Column 
Johnson support 11 Qum's land 60 Make a 12 Christmas package 
drinks 61 Bakery item 13 Robert -62 Leveret 22 Silkworm 63 Revise 


Campus 
•12: 
I 5 p.m. -biology seminar, "current mor­phological observations on hormone receptor localization," dr. alton ford, indiana univ., bloomington, galvin life science aud. (room 278), sponsored by biology dept. 

•7:30 
p.m. -film, "viridiana," annenberg aud., snite museum. 


Television 
7:00p.m. 
7:30p.m. 8:00p.m. 
8:30p.m. 
9:00 p.m. 
10:00 p.m. 
10:30 p.m. 
11:00 p.m. 
11:30 p.m. 
Tonight 
16  Little Houst· on the Prairie  
22  Private Benjamin  
28  That's lncredihle  
34  The Shakespeare Plays  
46  Believers Voice of Victory  
22  The Two of lis  
16  Monday Night at tht· Movie~. "l'amily  
Reunion"  
22  M·A·S·H  
28  ABC's Monday Night Football, Miami  
at Buffalo  
46  Lester Sumrall Teadting Stories  
22  ISth Annual Country Music Associa·  
tion Awards  
46  Blackwood Brother~  
46  Today with Lester Sumrall  
16  NewsCenter 16  
22  22 Eyewitness News  
28  Jimmy Swaggart  
16  Tonight Show  
22  Quincy and Harry-0  
28  Newswatch 28  
46  Praise the Lord  
16  Tomorrow Coast to Coast  
28  ABC News Nightline  

Simon 

Today in History 
Today's highlight in history: 
In 1492, Christopher Columbus discovered 
America. 
On this date: 
In 1942, American forces defeated the Japanese in the World War II battle of Cape Esperance on Guadalcanal. 
In 1945, the Allied Control Council in Germany ordered the dissolution of Nazi Party after World War II. 
In 1960, Soviet Premier Nikita Khrushchev up­set the decorum of the United Nations General As­sembly by pounding on a desk with his shoe::. 
In 1964, Army forces took control in South Vietnam, ousting the government of Maj. Gen. Nguyen Khanh in a bloodless coup. 
An in 1978, peace talks between Israel and Egypt 
opened in Washington, under United States 
auspices, amid predictions thar rapid agreement 
will be reached. 
Ten years ago: President Nixon announced he would make a trip to Moscow, independent of his planned journey to Peking. 
Five years ago: swine tlu vaccinations in I 0 states were suspended after the deaths of three elderly persons who received the vaccine at a Pittsburgh clinic. 
One year ago: officials of the Algerian Red Cross said 1,500 persons died in an earthquake that had devastated the city of AI Asnam. 
ACROSS 26 Fashionable 1 Residences: 29 Shoe part 
abbr. 34 "Like a­5 Light snack water" 9 Frankie 39 Marsh 

the singer 40 Division 14 Racetrack word 
figure 41 Adjusts, as 15 Willow a radio 16 Flynn 43 Recitative 17 Reduce the partner 
Intensity 44 Gamut 18 Mardi-46 Take the 19 Playplace blame 20 Acidity 48 Remnant 21 Common 50 Benefit 
perception 51 OSSsuc­23 Intimida­cessor tion 53 Obiter­25 Valencia 58 Locomotive gold part 
Saturday's Puzzle Solved: 


ATrENTION ALL ND CLUBS 

Applications for the 1981 Spring Movie lottery are now available in the Student Union office. Applications will be due 1bm, Oct. 15,1981, 4PM. 
-

Monday, October 12, 1981 -page 8 
'Like a nightmare' 
Irish can't explain third loss 
ference call on Boushka, redeemed

By KELLY SULLIVAN ception to FSU's seven at the begin­himselfwhen he came up with an in­
Sports Writer ning of"the third quarter. They were terception, the fifth that Kiel has
denied the endzone when Kiel was thrown this year. Moments later,
Notre Dame, ranked No. 1 in the stopped on a bootleg on third-and­Stockstill found Whiting in the
nation less than a month ago, is goal. endzone again for the winning
below the .500 mark this late in the "IfBlair had kept going around the score.
season for the first time since 1963. corner he might have outrun that "We knew that play would be
The players find that hard to explain. defender," said Faust. "But I don't open, because we saw that they had
"I don't know what the problem think Blair thought he could beat a tendency to uverpursue," said
is," offered quarterback Tim Koegel. him." "If I knew, we'd be 5-0." "Normally, I could beat a defense 
Stockstill ofhis five-yard screen play. "It's so hard to explain," remarked to the corner, and the bootleg would 
"Mike made a good catch, and the linebacker Bob Crable, who kept have worked," Kiel stated. "But their 
endzone was wide open." Faust reinserted Koegel in the

busy by making 19 tackles. "This is quickness was very obvious out lineup with seven minutes left. "I
like a nightmare."· there. Had we scored, the momen­had just thrown a pretty costly inter­
It's not hard to find reasons for tum would have shifted our way." Saturday's 19-13 loss to Florida The Irish did get three points from 
ception at the time, and that's probably why I got taken out," of­

State. The Irish lost their last chance Harry Oliver on that series, which for victory on a trick play in the put them ahead for the last time, 6-3. 
fered Kiel. "The coaches were trying to go with the quarterback who was

closing minutes, a shift into the shot­But from then on, the momentum moving the team best. But Tim and I 
.... gun designed to draw FSU offsides belonged to Florida State. Quarter­on fourth-and-five. back Rick Stockstill directed an 80­really weren't sure when we were going in."
"That's one of the objectives, but yard scoring drive that ended on a there's a play in it, too," insisted touchdown pass to Mike Whiting, 
Nothing really worked with either Faust, whose plan backfired when one oftwo scoring receptions by the 
one, as the Irish managed just 38 his team was assesed a five-yard fullback, who accounted for 44 
yards through the air. Koegel was three-of-nine, Kid, two-of-nine.

penalty for illegal procedure. "They yards in the air and 72 on the "We forced them to pass," Bow­
said the 4uarterback (Koegel) drew ground. Seminole tailback Ricky them off; it's an official's decision." Williams ran for 135 yards. 
den stated. "We knew we had to stop But you can't pin the loss on that "Three times, the linebackers ran 
their running game, because one play. Notre Dame suffered too right by me when I had the ball be­
Nebraska crushed us on the ground, many breakdowns in crucial situa­cause they were trying to get to 
and Notre Dame did, too, for awhile. tions. It was outplayed by a much Stockstill," said Williams. But our defense began to adjust." faster Seminole s4uad. The offense "I didn't think we could sustain a 
The Irish just couldn't com­failed to put points on the board, drive on the ground against Notre 
pensate for a lengthy injury list, with while the defense, worried about Dame," admitted FSU Coach Bobby 
key players like Dean Masztak, Phil FSU's passing game, let the draws Bowden. "But when we started 
Carter, Randy Ellis and John Krimm and sweeps go by. And the players throwing, their front four started to on the sidelines. "We knew going in­know it. lose discipline because of their pass 
to this game that we were in pretty "Florida State's biggest asset was rushing, so we went t9 our running 
bad shape physically," Faust added. its speed," said linebacker Mark game." "We just hoped to get through it." 
Zavagnin. "Both of their backs were Kiel did get the Irish moving late as quick as any we've faced. And I in the third quarter. A drive was don't think I've ever seen a team get helped along by a pass interference 'Oktoberfest OK' 
their receivers out into their pat­call on a pass intended for Mike terns faster. Boushka. Wingback John Mosley, "We just weren't consistent subbing for a banged-up Tony Hun­enough all the way through, and ter, had runs of 11 and 10 yards to 
Bowden converting skeptics
they were," he continued. "They get Notre Dame down to the one. were able to run the ball against our Greg Bell, who had 121 yards on the 
timidated. The coaches instilled in back Rick Stockstill, wno had passes
By KELLY SULLIVAN 

defense, and those breakdowns afternoon, took it in to knot the us the last two or three seasons that picked off by Mark Zavagnin and
Sports Writer 

were all they needed to get going." score at 13-13. if we go into a game and fight hard, Chris Brown. Stockstill threw for "We still lack consistency on of­"I had the feeling we were going 
we can win." 100 yards, his lowest total of the fense," explained quarterback Blair to get whipped, that we were letting 
Florida State's Bobby Bowden 

Fullback Mike Whiting wasn't season. "It was as good as we've seen Kiel, inserted for Koegel right before the· momentum get away from us," thinking about legends, either. "The all year. Nebraska's was heavy, but 
quickly is making believers out of 
the skeptics who scuffed at his na­

halftime after the offense repeatedly confessed Bowden. "I thought they 
only thing on my mind today was Notre Dame was really tough, and its stalled. "There's no reason a team of were going to come back and win winning," he offered. "If we give it 
tional championship aspirations. 

secondary played just as well as we our caliber should be going 1-for-14 it." So did some ofhis players. all we have, we're just as good as thought it would." 
"Octoberfest ain't so bad, yet," 
smiled the Seminole coach about 

on third down conversions." "Midway through the third quar­
anybody." And the senior feels this victory "We made mistakes in key situa­ter, I thought we had them," said The Seminoles may be a little fas­has earned his team its just rewards. 
the murderous 1981 schedule 
which pitted him against Nebraska,

tions," agreed guard Mike Shiner. tackle Garry Futch, "but that touch­ter than anybody, and Bowden was "This shows that we can play with
Ohio State, Notre Dame, Pittsburgh"It's very demoralizing when you down gave them a spark, and I knew worried he wouldn't be able to use the best," he stated. "I mean, we're
and LSU, all on the road on con­

can't even make a yard." it would be a dogfight from then on." that to his advantage Saturday. on the road for this long, and we
secutive Saturdays.The two teams played to a 3-3 The Irish couldn't fight both the "I got weather reports all week come up with two big wins. I think
Bowden made some pretty cocky

halftime tie, and the Irish had a Seminoles and the bad breaks. On saying there was a good chance of now we deserve the respect that
predictions before the season began.

chance to go up by a touchdown their next possesion, cornerback rain with temperatures in the 40's," Notre Dame gets."
"If we go 10-1, nobody else in the

when Zavapnin rewrned an inter-James Harris, who got the inter-he said. "That scares me to death They might get that from
country can win the national cham­when I hear it might be cold and everyone but their own coach. "This
pionship. I wouldn't care who went 11-0, if we can get that 10-1 we'll 

wet, because a muddy field would was the biggest win I'll ever have," beat out anybody." 
neutralize our speed." admitted Bowden. "I've always had
Irish still unbeaten 
But the weather reports were in­tremendous admiration for Notre accurate, and FSU was able to utilize Dame. You can't imagine how much H'e may be right. His team has 
looked particulary impressive the its best asset, despite a furious effort respect I have for a place that
last two weeks, beating the

after tying Badgers 
by the Irish defense. produced the likes ofKnute Rockne,
Buckeyes and the Irish in their own 

"I thought their pass rush was ex­Frank Leahy, and a tailback namedbackyards.
Notre Dame's soccer team, the match at 1-1, and it stayed 
ceUent," complimented quarter-Ronald Reagan." 
"What does this do for your

ranked ninth in the Mideast that way until Henige's goal mid­
program? " he was asked. "It puts ya

region, battled No. 6 Wisconsin way through the second stanza. 
in there with the best of them,

to a 2-2, double-overtime tie yes­The two goals scored by Notre 
doesn't it?" Bowden responded. "I 

Yanks, Dodgers, Expos
terday on Cartier Field. 
Dame marked the biggest of: 
never believed we'd bt: where we

The Irish, who trailed twice in fensive output against the 
are ( 4-1 ). I figured we'd be 2-3 at

the contest, battled back to tie Badgers this season. Wisconsin best." 
advance with wins
the game at 2-2 on a Sammi 
entered the game having allowed 
But it's the Irish who are now 2-3

Kahale goal at the 78: 18 mark in only one goal in nine previous after a rare loss at home, where they PHILADELPHIA (AP) -Steve Rogers beat Carlton in theregulation time. 
matches. 

boast an .833 winning percentage. It Rogers pitched a six-hit shutout and opening game ofthe series, pitchingIt was the 1Oth goal of the · 
The tie capped another perfect 
looked like they were destined to singled home the first two runs Sun­8 and 2-3 innings and allowing one season for Kahale, who leads the weekend for the Irish, who also improve that figure, too, after Harry day as the Montreal Expos beat the earned run. He is 4-1 against theIrish in that catagory. 
went into double-overtime Oliver's first field goal bounced off Philadelphia Phillies 3-0 to win their Phillies this year, including the 
The Badgershad taken their 
Friday evening before beating the top ofthe left goalpost and sailed first National East Division title in playoffs.
second lead less than five Marquette 1-0. Sammi Kahale through the uprights. the 13-year history ofthe franchise. Carlton, who worked six inningsminutes earlier, on a goal by scored the game-winner with "I thought about the luck of the The Expos won the first two in the opener at Montreal, worked Chris Henige. 
4:02 remaining in the second ses­Irish on that one," Bowden said. But games at home, but the Phillies won eight Sunday, allowing seven hits 

Wisconsin scored first on a sion, his ninth goal of the season. 
his players weren't hung up on mys­here Friday and Saturday to send the and all three Montreal r.tns. 
Mark Babich goal midway Now 10-0-3 on the season, the 
tique. best-of-five series to a fifth game. Rogers walked one and struck out 
through the first half. -Notre Irish will travel to Rensselaer, 
"We weren't intimidated by the It was Rogers' second triumph of two. He was in slight trouble in the 
Dame countered with an unas­Ind., Wednesday for a 4 p.m. date 
Notre Dame prestige," said punter the series and he again beat Phillies first when the Phillies had hits from 
sisted Rob Snyder goal just :48 in­with St. Joseph's College. -The 
Rohn Stark, who saddled the Irish ace Steve Carlton to seal the victory Pete Rose and Mike Schmidt, but 
-
to the second half. That knotted Observer 
with poor field position all day. over the defending World Cham­
"Maybe we're too young to be in-pions. See PLAYOFFS, page 6 





