----------------.-------------. 
Christmas Nazz page 8
' ' ' 

Campus activities 

O'Donnell talks on student life 
Student actit•ilh•s are a11 integral part ofa college commtmi~)'. In or­der to better understand hou· stu­dnll actil'ilies are run at Saint Jtarv's, The Observer asked JlmJ' Anne ()'Donnell, director of Stu­dent Activities, to comment on cer­tain aspects ofherjob. 
f.!: What duties does your office 
entail.~ 
A: Advising all student organiza­tions in kadership development, program planning, promotions, con­tracting. com mittt-c organization and hudgt·ting is an overall tkscrip­tion of my job. There arc, however, a grt·at number of other respon­sibilities indudcd in tht· job. Over­


.Mary Annp O'Donnell 
all, I au as a facilitator in thc Swdcnt Activities pron·ss. I work with and cducatt· thc stutknts and I am al­ways open t<> ncw ideas and ncw ac­
tivities. 
Q: Do you feel tbere is tl lack of aci!Jities at Saini .lfary•'s? 
A: Not a lack of actvitit:s, hut too much of the same things going on. Thnt· is a need for a wider varkty of anivitks, and that is where student imerl'St survey~ come in. The sur­veys are now being distributed to find out what kinds of activities stu­dents want most. 
Q: Some Saint Mary•'s students feel pressured into going to Notre Dame to fJtlrticipate in activities. Do you feel that this situation ex­ists? 
A: No. there arc sc::veral clubs 
which are co-sponsored with Notre Dame. It is true that some:: Saint Mary's activitks cannot compare to those at Notrt· Dame. Saint Mary's is a much smaller school and the money and facilities for some ac­tivities arc lacking. The:: biggest problem at Saint Mary's, though, is publicity. More people must bt•comc aware of the events at Saint Mary's, and there:: is a fall down in 


W aldheim withdraws from UN election 
UNITED NATIONS (AI') -In­cumbent Kurt Waldheim dropped out of the: deadlocked balloting for 
U.N. secretary general yesterday but remained under consideraton for an unprc:cc::dented third term in oftke. 
Ugandan Ambassador Olara Otun­nu, Security Council president for December. was asked by a reporter whether Waldhcim's candidacy had bt·cn withdrawn following 16 incon­clusive rounds of council balloting. lie said "absolutdy not." 

Otunnu said he had asked both Waldheim and the Third World chal­lenger, Tanzanian foreign Minister Salim Ahmed Salim, "to step aside so we can consider other candidates, and Waldheim complied." 
Otunnu said Salim's reply was ex­pected after a meeting of the group of African U.N. member states. 
China is committed to electing a 
Third World candidate and has con­
sistently vetoed Waldheim and the 
United States has repeatedly vetoed 
Salim. 
Otunnu said it was possible that, if the 15-mcmher council could not agree on a compromise candidate::, it 




iHesburgh, Wiesel pleal
I 

'for dissident's life 
Notre Dame President Fr. Theodore M. Hesburgh and Elic 'Wiesel, the holocaust survivor and author, have sent a telegram to Soviet President Leonid Brczhnev in support ofAndrei Sakharov, the dissi­dent Soviet physicist who began a hunger strike on Nov. 22. 
The telegram, dated Dec. 3. read as follows: 
"On behalf of humanity, we appeal to you to save:: Andrei Sak­harov's life. We are concerned, troubled, worried that his hunger strike may cause him to die. His dc::ath would create such indignation that peace may be endangered. We therefore urge you, as men of peace, to kec::p Sakharov alive." A copy of tht· telegram was sent to 
Prt·sident Reagan. 
Sakharov, who has had a long career in the Soviet Union as a nudear weapons specialist, has been a controversial figure in Russia since 1968, when he wrote an article expressing concc::rn about the nmsequenccs of the nuclear arms race. Since then, he has grown increasingly outspoken in his criticism ofSoviet human rights viola­tions. He was exiled to the:: city of Gorky two years ago and he is 
closely guarded by Soviet Security police. 
Sakharov has expressed hope that the hunger strike will persuade Soviet authorities to allow his stepson's fiancee::, Liza Aleksc::vya, to t•migrate to the United States. Sakharov's stepson, Aleksci Sc::myonov, was expelled from the:: Soviet Union four years ago and is now a graduate student at Brandeis University. Sakharov believes that the government has enforced the separation "for rc::vc::ngc:: and to put pressure on me." Sakharov chose the hunger strike, he said, as the only available means "of breaking through the K.G.B.-built wall." 
Although the immediate goal of the protest is to win Lisa Alcksvya's right to emigrate, Sakharov's hunger strike is widely · regarded as being intended to draw increased attention to Soviet human rights abuses in general. 
Fr. Hesburgh said yesterday that he and Wiesel, who had visited Notre Dame for a lecture, sent' the telegram "hoping that it will induce others to follow spit." 


might agree as a last resort to split the next term bt·tween Waldhc::im and Salim. 
"I want the matter to be settled 
·before Dec I';," when the U.N. Gcnc::ral Assembly's current session is due to adjo~rn, Otunnu said. The Scn1rity Council nominates a can­didate for election by the !57­member assembly. qtunnu said he 
expected the couiKil to begin con­sultations with a view to opening the race. 
Since the on-and-off balloting began on Oct. 27, Chinese and Amt·rican vetoes have:: stymied both Waldheim and Salim. Balloting has been suspended since Nov. 17. 
The five permanent council mem­

Bearing a striking resemblance to the bearded round man oftbe
bers -the:: United States, China, the 

North, aneu•IJ•-decorated Moses reminds students ofthe approach­
Soviet Union, Britain and France 

ing holidays.-(Photo by Carrie Koplin)
have:: veto power. 

'We're undermanned' 
Police shortage hits Houston 
publicity because some events arc not publicized early enough.6 This situation is being remedied through publicity workshops where student leaders learn how to properly ad­vertise their events. 
Q: Do you feel there is adequate participation in activities at Saint Mary's? 
See Q&A, page 5 
ByJAMES R. KING 
Associated Press 
HOUSTON (AP) -Issuing traffic 
tickets is now considered an extra 
duty of regular patrol squads in the 
nation's fifth largest city, where a 
severe manpower shortage in the 
Houston Police Department has 
eliminated all but the essential 
police services. 
It means, "unfortunately, you can 
speed or run a red light in Houston 
and not get caught if you're:: lucky, 
and you don't have to be:: too terribly 
lucky," said police spokesman Larry 
Troutt. 

Houston has about 3,000 officers and needs at least 5,000, he said, to cope with a population ofabout 1.6 million that is growing at a rate of 1,000 people a week. 
The department has launched a national recruiting program focusc::d on urban arc::as of the:: Nonheast and aimed at blacks and Hispanics, but because of the department's rigid standards, only 70 out of every 
I,000 applicants qualify for the city's new S I I million police academy. 
Another problem, said Deputy Chief Bill Gaines, is the tarnished image of the department in recent years and hostility among young people toward any kind ofauthority, a holdover of the "lifestyle of the 1960s." 
To complicate matters, nearly half of all applicants arc:: disqualified be­cause of their past use of drugs, Gaines said. At the present rate, "it will take:: us 1 0 to 1 2 yc::ars to get to 5,000 and by that time we're 
probably going to be behind again," 
because of the:: city's rapid popula­
tion growth, he said. 
In the meantime, Troutt said, if a 
Houston resident is involved in a 
minor traffic accident or his home is 
burglarized while he is away, the 
police:: depanmc::nt's advice is: don't 
callus. 
"What we're doing in Houston is 
saying, 'Folks, we're:: undermanned, 
and until we get it together, you're 
going to have to help us out,"' said 
Troutt. He said motorists involved in 
non-injury accidents should go in 
person to the nearest police substa· 
tion_o_!_ ht;a<:!_qu~rte~ within 2~ 
FRIDAY..-~vzg~ 

:;0J~~k~~'F0 CUS 
hours and fill out a repon. Burglary victims arc told to do the same thing. 

"It used to be:: that the citizen role in the:: policing effort was more of a crime prevention effort," said Troutt. "Now we're actually getting them involved in the working situa­tion -stuff a police officer has had to do in the past." 
According to the department's Statistics Division, crime in seven major areas murder, rape, burglary, robbery, larceny, assault and auto theft, increased 1.6 percent from 1979 to 1980. The number of murders actually decreased from 
-
1979 to 1980 -657 to 6:B -hut so far this year, the murder count stands at 650 with about four weeks left in the year. 
The:: police:: shortage has attracted a chapter ofthe Guardian Angds, the teen-age citizens security group founded in New York City. And some businessmen have hired their own police guards. Merchants in the poor Montrose neighborhood near downtown pooled their funds six months ago to hire two off-duty of­ficers to walk the heat, which Troutt 
said  was  congested  with  
"prostitutes, con  artists and mug­ 
gers."  

Gaines said Houston has I. 7 police officers for every 1,000 resi­dents -the lowest ratio among the nation's top 10 cities. He said Philadelphia, which has about the same population as Houston, has more than five officers per every thousand citizens. 
The FBI has recommended a ratio ofat least 2. 5 officers per I,000 resi­dents, but if that were used here, "we've been undermanned for 10 to 12 years," said Gaines. 
He said in 1974, when the depart­ment had about halfas many officers as it needed to meet the FBI mini­mum standard, it accepted S3. 5 mil­lion in federal funds and embarked on a national campaign to attract recruits. 
As a result, as many as three­quarters of the cadets in training here today are from out ofstate, with New York and Detroit at the top of the list ofhome towns. 
·~ r -•• ·-·......:;: • ........ ~ .... .__ .._ -~ ..... _...~

. -· ~-:-l'··~... ·-· . ~ ...... 

------------------.. 



NewsBrie_b 
Friday, December 4, 1981 -page 2 
~ 

c===~~======~======================================
by Tl1e Oh.rcrt'er and The A.rrociated Pre.r.r 
A $200 reward is being offered by Saint Mary's College for any information concerning the destruction oftrees and bushes on Friday, Nov. 20. Saint Mary's Security estimates that the incident took place between sundown and 9 p.m. along the Saint Mary's North Road near the softball field. Anyone with information about the incident should contact Director of Personnel Bob Foldesi at 284-4575 or Saint Mary's Security at 284-4313.-The Observer 
Cht~erful as the"Annie"she portrayed on Broad­
way, 16-yearold Shelley Bruce said yesterday she is resting up after 
successli.Jileukernia treatments and she feels "really good." Just two 
hours after receiving her last radiation treatment at Memorial Sloan­
Kettering Cancer Center in New York City, the pert redhead, her 
blue eyt:s sparkling, also expressed thanks to the thousands who sent 
her lettt:rs and cards ofencouragement from around the world. Miss 
Bruce, the second star of the Broadway musical "Annie," was 
released! from the hospital Monday after 40 days of treatment aimed 
at riddi111g the system ofall evidence ofleukemia. "She's in complete 
remmission now." said her physician, Michael Sorrel, explaining that 
with new drugs and treatment methods there is a 65 to 75 percent 
chance of a long-term cure for the childhood cancer. For the next 
two years, Miss Bruce will go to the hospital once a month for an 
injectio111 and will take oral medication daily, Sorrel said. ~ AP 
Philip Bruce Smith, of Madison, Wis., has been con­victed by a Dane County jury of sexual assault despite the victim's testimony that she wanted to drop the charges and marry him. The jury deliberated just over two hours Wednesday before returning guilty vt:rdicts on charges of second-degree sexual assault, battery and falst: imprisonment. The woman testified that she loved Smith, and was engaged to marry him. She also tetified that she consented to the ac·ts that had occurred, but she admitted telling a preliminary hearing that she had been beaten, and she feared she would be beaten again. -AP 
A ciircuit judge has decided that a Manitowoc, Wis. man who killed his parents can collect part oftheir estate. A jury had found Charles). Wilda guilty ofslaying the couple Feb. 13. But Wilda also ple<llded innocent by reason of mental defect, and the jury ruled he was not legally responsible for the shootings. Judge Allen). Deehr ruled Wednesday that, because of the jury's decision, Wilda, 39, is entitled to a portion of the estate which attorney Louis Croy says is valued at $50,000 to $60,000. Wilda has been committed to Win­nebago Mental Health Instsitute, where law entitles the state to bill him for his treatment. -AP 
Eugene Rostow' director of the U.S. Arms Con­
trol and Disarmament Agency, in The Hague, Netherlands, said yes­
terday that the United States views European protests against 
nuclear arms "with great sympathy and understanding." "It (the 
protests ) is a very natural and reasonable reaction by people who 
have slowly and reluctantly come to recognize the nature ofSoviet 
foreign policy and the menace of the military buildup on which it 
rests," he said at a news conference. An estimated 350,000 protes­.ters marched in Amsterdam on Nov. 21 in the largest of a series of anti-nuclear demonstrations in Europe this fait -AP 
City officials in Antwerp, Belgium, said 
Thursday that security has been increased in Antwerp's predominantly Jewish diamond trading district, where a car bomb explosion killed three people and injured more than 100 on Oct. 20. The city council approved this week deploying an additional 100 plainclothes and uniformed police officers in the downtown diamond district made up of six narrow streets. Parked cars in the area will from now on be towed away immediately and a police station will be opened to protect the city's 30,000-strong Jewish community, the council said. -7tP 
A British judgeyesterdaytold Showaddywaddy, 
a top British rock band, they can keep a $9,480 fee after cutting short 
a show in front of a "disgraceful" hostile audience in London. High 
Court Judge Sir Hugh Mais said the group, which specializes in 
1950s-style rock music, was "entirely justified" in refusing to go 
back on stage aftc:r lead singer David Bartram was struck by a full 
beer can thrown from the 4,500 strong audience. Saying the 
musicians were "in danger ofbeing injured," he dismissed a demand 
by the organizers of the November 1979, show at London's 
Alexandra Palace concert hall, that the eight-man band return the fee 
paid to them in advance. -AP 
. Becoming windy with snow diminishing to 
flurries early today. High in mid to upper 30s. Mostly cloudy with a 
few snow flurries possible tonight and tomorrow. Low tonight in the 
mid 20s. High tomorrow in the mid 30s to around 40. Chance of 
snow dropping to 30 percent early today and to less than 20 percent 
tonight. --AP 


APPhoto File 

VERDICT WAIT CONTINUES: 
Eugene Tafoya, center, smiles as he is ledfrom district court to the Fort Collins, Colo. countyjail. The jury began deliberation Wednesday evening on the verdict in the former Green Beret's at­tempted murderofa Libyan ex-patriate. As oflast ·night, the jury hadyet to reach a decision. 
FINAL FAREWELL: 

Actor Robert Wagner reaches for a flower off the bouquet-draped casket of his wife, Natalie Wood, during services Wednesday at Westwood Memorial Park. The 43-year-old actress was an apparent drowning victim offthe coast ofSanta Catalina Island over the weekend. See related story on page 6. 
f-The~Ohs.erYer_ 
Design Editor ...................... Maura Murphy DeslgnAssistants ........................ jim Keyes Layout Staff. ............................... Mary Shilts Typesetters ....................................... AI Novas Ray Inglin News Editor ........................ Tim Vercellotti Copy Editors ............................... Rich Adam joe Musumeci Features Layout.............. Gregory Swiercz Sports Copy Editor .............. Chris Needles Typists .................................... Dodee Carney Laura Degnan Systems Control ................... Bruce Oakley ND Day Editor ........................ Paul McGinn AdDesign ................................. Fran & Mary Photographer ........................ Carrie Koplin Guest Appearances .............. Griff & Darby Cashin & Co. LLL 
Donius and assorted loons 
The Observer (USPS 598 920) IS published Monday throu(lh Fnday and on home football Saturdays. except dunng exam and vacation penods. The Observer 1s published by the students of Notre Dame and Sa1nt Mary's Col­1eqe Subscriptions may be purchased for $25 per year ($15 per semester) by wnt1ng The Observer. P 0 Box Q. Notre Dame. Indiana 46556. 
The Observer is a member of The Associated Press. All reproduction nghts are reserved. · 
Second class postage pa1d at Notre Dame. lndtana46556. 
WHITE HOUSE CHRISTMAS TREE: 
First lady Nancy Reagan gazes up at a 20-foot Christmas Tree, grown in Pennsylvania, that was donated to be displayed in the Blue Room at the White House, during a ceremony in the driveway at the White House Wednesday. At left is Eric and Gloria Sundback ofBethesda, Md, who grew the tree at theirfarm in Spartansburg, Pa. 

CROWD SURROUNDS BUIWING: 
Crowds of people surround a firefighters' school in Warsaw, Wednesday, after special police unitsswooped down from a helicopterand burst through the doors ofthe school, forcing out more than 300 protesting cadets. In response to this action, the Solidarity labor union may con­duct a general strike. See story on page 5. 
The 1'\btre Dame Sa1nt Marys Dance Theatre presents 
OuR 
WINTER

GONGRT 
:.'1rec lej by Debra Stohl and stucen• choreographer Colleen Ou1nn Ce~emtJer 4and 5O! 8p m )ecember 6 at 230p m C~a~ghl1n A,,a,toflum 
$3 General odmss1on $250 Students focJt, >toH and seno ohzens 
Open1ng n1ght patrons 

w.il rece.ve one compimentory t1cket for each regularly purchased tiCket 
f'o· .nformat.on col! 284-4176 
-. 
--------------------------------------------------· 
·~----­
The Observer Friday, December 4, 1981 -page 3 
For 'Formal' weekend 
Seniors choose Pallller House 

By KAREN MIRANDA 
Neti'S Staff 
Plans for the 19H.2 Senior Formal 
will soon he definite. This year's gala 
will takl· place at the Palmer House 
in Chkago on the weckt·nd of April 
1.2-14. Although ticket prices will 
not be established until after 
Christma~. tht· Senior Formal Com­
mittee anticipates that the inclusive­
price pt·r couple, excluding hotel 
accommodations and cash bar, will 
ht· somewhere between !'i5-65. 
The Palmer House was chosen from a group of three hotels deemed suitable to capacitate the expected Notre Dame-Saint Mary's crowd of 1,000. The other hotels considered were the ,\1arriot, which was used for last year's formal, and the Hyatt. 
The deddinl( factors in the Palmer House choice include, according to SMC Chairperson Kathleen Engler, the less-convention-oriented facilities, especially the Grand Ball­room, the extreme courtesy and cooperation of the hotel staff, which includes two ND graduates, and the 
low prices offered to students. 
Must significant for guests will he the special reduction in hotel rates at thc Palmer Housc for all nigts during the Formal weekend. Rooms available.: under this reduction in­clude only unisex triples and quads, priced at S I 2 per person per night. Regular rates at the hotd range from S I 00-400 per night for a double. 
After last year's controversy over whether the administrations or the students should decide the hotel ar­rangt·ments, University officials an­nounced that they would no longer sponsor the formal. Formal chairper­son Mike Kelley emphasized that this year's decision on rooms was made jointly by the Senior class of­fleers, the Senior Formal Commit­tee, and University officials. 
The committee views the 
decision as an important attempt to 
~-:ain the confidence of the Univer-
W ASIIINGTON ( AP) -Richard 
V. Allen failed to disclose the iden­tity of his consulting firm's clients despite a legal requirement that any of them "dirct·tly involved" with him be listed if they paid at , least S'i,OOO during the two years before 
he joined the White House. 
White llouse spokesman David 
Gergen said Thursday he wasn't sure 
whether the national security ad­
viser should have listed his clients 
and otht·r White House officials 
rduscd to discuss the issue. 
Allen has argued that the White 
House counsd's oftke told him he 
did not have to list his clients be­
cause, technicaly, he was an 
employee of the company, Potomac 
International Corp., and fees were 
paid to tht· tirm. 
Federal law rt·quircs an incoming government oftkial 10 identify sources of "compensation in excess of S'i,OOO" in the past two yc.:ars and to give "a brief description of the nature of the duties performed or service~ rt·mkred." 
Tht· main exception to the rc­quircmt·nt is if the oft1cial was an employee of the firm and not "directly involved" in work for that client. 
Allen has said he did havt· "several clients" who paid more than S'i,OOO a year. Allen was Potomac Interna­tional's founder, owner. president and chief consultant. His wife, Patricia, was the corporation's vice president and trcasurn, and his son, Michael, was its secretary. 
A source fo~miliar with Allen's business said ht· had only five to seven clients, all of whom were japanese or aft1liatcd with Japancst· sity, and encourages seniors to par­ticipate fur the purpose of preserving this class acttvlty. Though students arc always frt:e to tlnd their own accommodations elsewhere in the city, Kelley noted that street prices for rooms are con­siderably higher than the special rates at the Palmer House. Also, the reductions will nut be offered to any guests seeking single or double.: rooms there. 
The ticket price includes enter­tainment, pre-dinner cocktail party, prime beef dinner, and champagne. Entertainment tentatively includes a piano player at the cocktail party and the continuous music of a I'i­piece band. In addition, the commit­tee is working on a booklet of information which will cover all events in Chicago during the Formal weekend, including plays, bal­lgames, and symphonies. 

The formal itself will be held on Saturday evening. Dinner will be served from 9 p.m. to 2 a.m. in the room adjacent to the Grand Ball­room. Eight cash bars will be in service throughout the evening. The dance will be held in the ballroom itself, which Ms. Engle.:;-describes as "ornate and majestic." Since the usc of the Palmer House for a Notre 
Dame Senior Formal several years ago, the hotel has undergone com­plete renovation. This year's com­mittee considers the facilities to be excellent. 
The committee is still looking for a theme for the formal. Anyone with ideas is encouraged to submit t them to the Student Activities office, or to any of the committee chairpersons. Notre Dame representatives arc Lisa Lombardi and Mike Kelley. Saint Mary's representatives arc Nancy 
. Stoll and Kathlt:en Engler. 
Rugby club continues service with food drive 
By BOB VONDERHEIDE 

StaffReporter 
The Notre Dame Rugby Club, still suffering under an "indefinite" probation incurred last spring, will sponsor a food drive for South Bend's Northeast Neighborhood this Sunday afternoon. 
The club will seek food donations 
between noon and 6 p.m. from stu­
dents living in the ne.ighborhood. 
Students can also drop off contribu­
tions at H25 Notre Dame Avenue 
anytime next week. 
The food collected will be used to 
provide Christmas meals to resi­
dents of the low-income neighbor­
hood where many off-campus 
students live. 

The food drive, however, is just ont· of several community service 


Allen fails to report 
former client's names 
firms. 
Allen has said he docs not recall who in the counsel's office gave him the advice not to file a client list. He refused to discuss the issue further yesterday. 
Allen initially reported that he stepped down as president and sold the Potomac International Corp. in 197H. But after press inquiries, he said he had made a mistake and amended his disclosure form to say he remained president until he sold the company in .January 19H I -a few days before joining President Reagan's White House staf[ 
MASS 

follow-ed b:}r 
supper 

every_FRIDAY at the 
projects the Rugby Club is sponsor­ing. 
"We have to put in 1,200 hours of community work before our proba­tion will be reconsidered," Club Treasurer Kirby Muldoon said. 
The probation itself resulted from an "elephant walk" the rugby club performed last Spring in Houston while celebrating a victory. 
Since the spring, the club has repaired the Saint joseph's Grammar School Little Theater, mowed lawns for citizens in the Northeast Neigh­borhood, and taken down storm windows for elderly citizens. 
In the future, club members will 
be involved in individual service 
projects such as working at Logan 
Center, coaching little league ball 
teams, or helping Cub Scout packs. 
All ofthese projects, however, arc 
just "stepping stones" toward 
reversing the rugby club's proba­
tion, Kirby said. "It's not a cut-and­
dried deal. Just putting in the 1200 hours of work doesn't automatically put us back in the good graces ofthc University." 
But the club is hoping the Univer­sity will change its mind in time for the club to play a complete spring season. The club has already sat-out two seasons, both the fall and spring of this year. 
Initially, Kirby said, the rugby players weren't very happy with the community work requirement. "But when we started doing things that really helped people, that was tlnc. We can do that if it means we can play rugby next semester," Kirby said. 
"We know we have a good team," 
Kirby said, "and we're not just sitting 
around doing nothing about it." 
Prof Nancy D'Antuono of Notre Dame's Modern Languages Department presented "Theatrical Influences: The Comedia dell' Arte and Spain's Golden Age Theatre" yesterday afternoon in the Library Lounge. (Photo by Carrie Koplin) 

SU.DAY MASSI& A! SAOBID BlAB! OBUBOB . -. 
Masses for Sunday, Dec. 8, 1981 
8:18 PM Saturday Bev. David JJ. Schlaver, 0.8.0. 
9:00 AM Sunday  Bev. rrancis Oafarelli, 0.8.0.  
10:10 AM Sunday  Bev~avid  Tyson, 0.8.0.  
11;18 PM Sunday 7:18 PM Vespers  Bev. Austin lleming.-Bev. David Tyson, 0.8.0.  

join us this sunday for our cabaret brunch 
classical music provided by the elkhart string quartet 

for reservations call259-9925 
~-~------------~------­
The Observer Friday, December·4, 1981 -page 4 

An interested customer browses through the wares available at the annual Third World crafts sate: currently going on in the con­course ofthe Memorial Library. (Photo by Carrie Koplin) 

'Good and getting better' 



Poll reveals a healthy Alllerica 
WASHINGTON (AP)-In its an­
nual pulse-taking of America's 
health, the government said 
Thursday people are taking better 
care ofthemselves than ever and the problem now is how to care for the large number of people who live longer as a result. 
"The level of health in this country is good and getting better," Dr. Edward N. Brandlt Jr., Assistant Secretary of Health, said in present­ing the yearly overview. 
ButT Dr. Sidney Wolfe, an associate of Ralph Nader, said the credit for that must go to previous administra­tions. 
"At the very time they are announcing this good news, the Reagan administration is unleashing a plague upon this country," said Wolfe, director of Public Citizen's Health Research Group. 
He cited proposed spending cuts 
for government health and safety 
agencies such as the Occupational 
Health and Safety Administration and Environmental Protection Agency. 
Brandt noted society's success in permitting people to live longer is putting "great stress" on the nation's health care resources. 
The solution to the demand for 
health services in an aging popula­
tion will have to be in prevention 
and education so people will enter 
old age in a healthful condition, he 
said. 

Some other highlights of the 
report: 

The nation's life expectancy rate, 
after years of increases, fell slightly 
in 1980, but Brandt blamed last win­
ter's unsual pneumonia epidemic for 
that. Life expectancy was 73.8 years 
for an infant born in 1979 but it fell 
1980. 

The rate of deaths caused by 
motor vehicle accidents dipped 
dramatically between 1970 and 

If you think"high bias" is discrimination against tall people, 
you're not ready lor New Memorex. 
H1gh bias tape is specially formu­lateo to deliver remarkably improved sound reproduction, particularly in the higher frequencies. 
And no high bias tape does that better than totally new Memorex HIGH BIAS II. 
We've developed a unique new formulation of superfine ferrite crys­tal oxide particles. And while that's a. mouthful to say, it delivers an earful of results. 
Singers ring out more clearly. Snare drums snap and cymbals shimmer with startling crispness. 
· Even quiet passages sound clearer. Because new Mernorex HIGH BIAS II has 4 to 5dB lower noise. Which means dramatically reduced tape hiss. 
And thanks to Permapass,'" our extraordinary new binding process, the music you put on the tape stays on the tape. Play after play, even after 1,000 plays. 
In fact, new Memorex will always deliver true sound 
r---------------~---· 
1 Ready? GetaMemorex : HIGH BIAS II Cassettefor $1oo. 
Send us this coupon with $LOO check or money order payable toI "Mernorex," and we'll send you a HIGH BIAS II C-90 (sugg. retail price1 $5.99). Mail to: MEMOREX, P.O. Box 2899, Reidsville. NC 27322~ 
Note: HIGH BIAS II tapes are designed for exclusive use on recorders with a 
L coupon may not be mechamcaJJy reproduced and must liecompany your 1equest £xp1re':J March 1 1982 
I  Type II (CrO:z) setting.  
I I I  Name ________________Usual tape brand Street----------------------­C1ty State z,p,______ LIMIT ONE PER PERSON Offer vo>d where proh<b>ted laxed or restncled Allow -1 to 6 weeb lor dehvery Tl1>s  I I I.J  

:§) 1981. Memorex Corporat1on. Santa Clara. California 95052. U.SA. 
reproduction. Or we'll replace it Free. 
So trust your next remrding to new Memorex. In HIGH BIAS II, normal b1as MRX I or METAL IV. 
As a discriminating tape user. you'll have a high opinion of the results. 
A highly biased opinion. that is. 
NOW MORE THAN EVER WE ASK: IS IT LIVE, OR IS IT 
IVIEIVIOFIEX 
1975 but has climbed agair.. Joel Kleinman of the National Center for Health Statistics said lower speed limits and the gasoline shortage ac­counted for the decline; an increase in the number of small cars in use accounted in part for the more recent increase, he said. The rate fell from 26.9 deaths for every 100,000 people in 1970 to 21.5 in 1975 but climed to 24 in 1978, the latest year for which statistics were included. 
While fewer people smoke, those who do are smoking more. In 1965, 25 percent of male smokers said they used at least 25 cigarettes a day; by 1980, the percentage had grown to 34. Among women smokers, heavy users increased from 14 per­cent of the total in 1965 to 24 per­cent last year. 
The nation's health care bill rose by 11.7 percent in 1980 and by 15 percent in the first quarter of this year. In 1980, health care cost an average of $1,067 for every person in the country. 
About 40 percent of adults who have had at least 1.3 years of school­ing practice at least four out of five "good health practices" -such as sleeping seven or eight hours a night, not smoking, limiting alcohol consumption, controlling weight and being physically active. But only 30 percent ofthose with less than 12 years of education had that many good health practices. 
Jury remains out in Tafoya murder trial 
FORT COLLINS, Colo. (AP) -A jury tried again yesterday to reach a verdict in the trial ofex-Green Beret Eugene Tafoya, a man accused of trying to murder a Libyan dissident but described by his lawyers as a "forgotten patriot" who got a raw deal from the CIA. 
The jury was unable to reach a verdict after several hours of deliberation Wednesday. 
Faisal Zagallai, then a student at Colorado State University, was shot twice in the head with Tafoya's .22­caliber revolver on Oct. 14, 19HO. lle survived. but lost an eye. Tafoya admitted shooting Zagallai. .35. but said he did so in self-defense, after the Libyan pu.lled a 9mm semi­automatic pbtol from beneath a sofa cushim1. 
Tafo\'a. ~t(>. said he belie\'ed lw 
v. a~ ••n a mi~siun l<lf the CIA when he wenr lo Zagallai's apartment. 
The most serious charge before the jury wa~ attempted tlrst-degree murder and conspiracy to commit first-degree murder. The jury also had the option of convicting_him of the lesser charges of attempted second-degree murder, third­degree assault or conspiracy to com­mit third-degree assault. 
Prosecutors alleged that Tati.>ya was hired to kill 'zagallai by Edwin Wilson, a fugitive former CIA agent who has been indicted on charges of shipping explosives to Col. Moam­mar Khadafy. 
Defense attorney Gerash pictured Tafoya as a "forgotten patriot" who was "left out in the cold" by the CIA's denial of involvement with him. He tearfully read from the Bronze Star citation Tafoya was awarded in Vietnam in 1965. He told the jury tht someone "so efficient and so powerful and so expert in combat" would not have bungled the job if he had been sent to kill Zagallai. 
It was the chance discovery of Tafoya's .22-caliber revolver in a nearby irrigation ditch mat led to his arrest at his home in Truth or Conse­quences, N.M., six months after the 
shooting. 







~·he Obse~v~:-­
Friday, December 4, I 981 -page 5 

Retaliatory effort 

Solidarity threatens strike 

WARSAW. Poland (AP) Solidarity declared yesterday that Polish authorities wrecknl chances for rt'l'onciliation by u~ing forct• to end tht· lird1ghter cadets' protest, and that the union will consider a retaliatory gt·neral strike. 
"The developments of the past weeks provt· that by opting for violence the government has jct­tisont·d the possibility of dialogue with society," the independent uni­on's leaders said after a meeting in central Radom. 
Tht· statement blamed the 
govt·rnmcnt li>r ignoring a new law 
giving greater autonomy to factory 
workers, and attacknl the Com­
munist Party's call in Parliament to 
BySANDYVALENZUELA 
Neu•sStaff 
Saint Mary's Madrigal Dinners began last night and will continue nightly through Sunday. Seating for tht· dinners, which are being held in the Regina North Lounge, will start at 6:.~0 each evening. Dinner will be servt·d at 7:00. Tickets arc available at S I 2 per person at the Office of Spt'l'ial Programs. 
The Madrigal dinners arc a Saint Mary's tradition that is now in its tenth year. The dinner is a re­creation of a I7th century English Christmas feast. 
contirmedfrom page I 
A: Yes, I think students are taking advantage of the opportunities, but one must weigh the conditions which exist in order to determine the amount of participation. Some activities which expect a large turn­out, do not recl'ive it. while other events are overwhelming successes. In particular, the Speaker Series and the weekly movies have been espe­cially well attended. 
(J: How do you feel about the present parietal situation? 
A: I think the problem is that there is nor a social space where students from Saint Mary's and Notre Dame can intt·ract in an inti>rmal atmos­phert·. Tht·re is the nmsideration. however. that the old Saint Mary's library would bt· turned into a stu­dent union. I undt·rstand that at timt·s, wht·n parietals are not in e1: feet, the dormitory lobbies providt· littk privacy. I fed that a student union would provide for both the public and private social space. The paril'tal situation itsdf b now being 
rt·vil'wed by an Ad-lloc committn· to sec if a change in parietal procedures would be benetkial. 
(J: J)o you feel that there are enough clubs and planned ac­til,ities betu•een Saint .limy's anti Notre Oame? 
A: If there art· not enough clubs, students can form tht·m. New ideas are always wdcomnl, and the pron·ss ti>r crt·ating a nt·w dub is very simple. 
(J: It is also the belief of some Saint Mary,·s students that ifan ac-
Buy Observer 

classifieds 
general strike, which would be the first since police beat union mem­bers in northwestern Bydgoszcz in 
March.  "The  situation  is  inflam­ 
mable  and  dangerous  as  never  
befon:," the papt:r said.  

The raid on the firelighters' academy was an apparent effort by the authorities to demonstrate a new, get-tough attitude in the face of Communist demands for an end to strikes crippling Poland since Solidarity s formed 16 months ago as the first union free of party control in the Soviet bloc. 
The assault by some SOO com­mandos backed by several thousand police and army troops was the big­gest show of force in Poland's labor crisis, and came amid an apparent freeze in talks over a union­government front ofunderstanding. 
Although there were no injuries, Solidarity chapters across Poland reacted angrily to the raid, declaring strike alerts in Warsaw and Gdansk and demanding tough action from national leaders. 
A Solidarity spokesman in War­saw, where some .34 unionists seized during the raid were released with­out charges, said, "People arc get­ting upset because they can see we're being quite often out­maneuvered." 
The raid ended a week-long sit-in by about 320 cadets demanding they be given civilian status by the Interior Ministry and that their school be included in a new academic rdi>rm bill that limits police access to campuses and gives students broader power to elect ad­ministrators. 
give the government "extraordinary" powns to end strikes. 
"The usht-ring in of the socallcd extraordinary measures ...is tan­tamount to an attempt at liquidating civil and employee rights won in 
1980," tht· statement said. 
Union chief Lech Walesa, who put 
his 9. S million members on alert at: 
tcr the nid Wednesday, said he may 
ask for a referendum among factory 
workers on such a strike call if the 
Parliarm:nt grant~ such powers to 
the government. 
There was no reaction from the 
government, but the state labor 
newspaper, Glow Pracy sct·mnl to 
warn th1· union not to declare a 


SMC Madrigal Dinners continue to Sunday 
Included in the events of the eve­ning are a roast beef dinner, which would have been typical of the times. There will be a display of sin­ging and dancing by the Saint Mary's Chamber Singers throughout the two .1-hour dinner. The Christmas songs and dances center mainly on that period of British history. 
The expense of the tickets will pay for the printing of programs, food, decorations ti>r the hall, and the improvement of costumes from year to year. Whatever money is left over is usually used to pay for tour and production costs of the Saint 
Mary's Chamber Singers. 

• • • Q&A 
tivi~y does not include alcoholic beverages, then students will not attend. How doyoufeel about this? 
A: Saint Mary's students must give the activities a chance and look for­ward to the activity with a positive attitude. Students should plan to have a good time and forget about the alcohol. The way in which an event is presented makes a big dif­ference in its attendance. Students should take on activities positively and get the emphasis offofalcohol. 
(J: Do you beliet'e that a 1l'inter slow-down in activities real~J' ex­ists? 
A: No, what the winter slump real­ly is is the nature of winter and the timing. Winter is naturally an indoor time. and after tht· holidays some 
FO 

students get a kind of let-down. As far as activities are concerned, all the regular events still go on, and this year a special Winter Carnival Week in February is being planned. 
Q: In general, how do you feel things havegone so far this year? 
A: There are frustrating moments, but we learn from our mistakes. This year we have hard-working students and we are all working together to serve students better. The most im­portant point, though, is that we need more student feedback. Stu­dents should let us know ifthey have any problems, suggestions or com­ments. Students should not be afraid to give suggestions; we need to know better how we can serve the student body. 
ER 

Dr. Otto Bird, the founder of Notre Dame's General Program (now the Program ofLiberal Studies), retunwd to campus yester­day to speak on Pascal at the Library'Auditorium. (Photo by Carrie Koplin) 

TICKETS ON SALE NOW!!! 
$10.50/9.50 Reserved 

Available at ihe Box Office, 1st Source Bank, Main Office, St. Joseph's Bank, Elkhart Truth, Robertson 's--South Bend & Elkhart. 
~--~-·-=-l 
The Observer Friday, December 4, 1981 -page 6 

A potential resident assistant picks up his application from the Office of Student Affairs. Applications are availalable now throughjanuary 15. (Photo by Carrie Koplin) 

The 

1s accept1nq appt1cat1ons ~oR 
Day Editor at nO ano smc. 

appliCatiOn b€ablm€ IS noon ~Ribay. 


I'
. 
New questions raised 



Wood death remains mysterious 
LOS ANGELES ( AP) -New ques­tions were raised Thursday about the drowning of ~"' atalie Wood as a woman who was near the actress' 

yacht reported she heard a female voice screaming for help and then heard someone say "We're coming to get you." 
Marilyn Wayne, who was aboard 

I the yacht Capricorn off Santa Catalina Island Saturday night, said she told authorities earlier this week that she heard a woman's cries at 
11:45p.m.onSaturday. 
She said the cries, which lasted until 12:10 a.m. Sunday, came from the direction of Miss Wood's 60-foot yacht, Splendour, where the actress was spending the weekend with ac­tor Robert Wagner, her husband, and Christopher Walken, her co-star in an unfinished movie. Her body was found after dawn Sunday. 
The Splendour and the Capricorn were moored aboutt 150 feet apart in Isthmus Cove on the island's north side, Harbor Master Doug Oudin said Thursday. Only one other boat was nearby, although Oudin said "75 or 80" were moored in the cove Saturday night. 
Ms. Wayne, 38, a commodities broker for Shearson American Express in Beverly Hills, said she woke up at the sound ofscreams. 
Ms. Wayne said she thought the woman might have: been attending a loud party on a nearby sailboat, and she and her friend, whom she didn't identify, went back to sleep when they heard someone respond. 
She said she could not see anyone and "I was in sort ofa sleepy state, so I wasn't listening that carefully." 
"Despite the fact there was a woman calling for help the ap­pearance was not urgent," said Ms. Wayne. "She seemed well within reach ofseveral boats if not right on top of her own. And there were so many boats in the isthmus it didn't seem to be an emergency situation." 
Los Angeles County Lifeguard Curt Craig said he stopped at the Capricorn while looking for Miss Wood Sunday and was told of the screams. 
Craig said the screams "didn't seem relevant at the time. We were just looking for a person, so it didn't seem all that important." 
Investigators rc:fused comment Thursday on Ms. Wayne's report. 

Assistant County Coroner Richard 
Wilson said the coronJr·s office 
learned of the reported screams 
through news accounts yesterday 
and doubted they would affect the 
findings of death by accidental 
drowning with "no evidence offoul 
play." 
Coroner Thomas Noguchi has 
said Miss Wood slipped and hit her 
head while trying to board a dinghy tied to the Splendour. Wagner and Walkcn had quarreled, the coroner said. However, sheriff's homicide Detective Jluy Hamilton said offi­cials talked to both men and there was no indication there had been any argument. 

Her body was found floating in the cove at 7:45 a.m. Sunday. She was buried Wednesday at Westwood Memorial Park after a private Rus­sian Orthodox service. 
Wh• H c !

tte ouse OOierence On Aging concludes 
WASHINGTON (AP) The White House Conference on Aging ended yesterday with near unani­mous adoption ofnearly 600 recom­

mendations  despite  an  
undercurrent  of  complaints  that  
pro-administration  forces  had  
rigged key committees.  

By the end of the four-day meeting, even 81-year-old Rep. Claude Pepper, D-Fla., an early critic, was praising the outcome. Pepper called the conference's So­cial Security proposals "wonderful recommendations." 
"Democracy has a way of rising to its proper height," he said. "There may have been some influence in the early days that I didn't like, but it all sort of came out in the wash ... These reports are good reports on the whole. They deserve, on the whole, implementation." 
President Reagan saluted the delegates for "unselfish contribu­tions and for making the 1981 con­ference a productive, memorable event." 
"Their goal has not necessarily been to reach unanimous agreement on every issue, but rather to share diverse views and arrive at recom­mendations for the common good," he said. 
Conference critics who declined to be identified produced what they said were documents obtained from conference files on a detailed plan to stack key panels, pinpoint "adversaries" of the Reagan ad­ministration and orchestrate com­mittee votes through a system of 

DANCE THE NIGHT AWAY­

at mARDI GRAS 
Dancers sign up 
Ftiiday-LaFottune 
At All Times -Situdent Activities OHice 
committee "whips." Some were 
dubbing it, "Gray Scam" and 
"Eldergate." 

David Newhall III, chiefofstafffor 
Health and Human Services 
Secretary Richard S. Schweiker, 
denied that the Reagan administra­
tion had manipulated committee as­
signments or tried to stage-manage 
the conference. 

ButJack Ossofsky, chairman ofthe Leadership Council of Aging Or­ganizations, called alleged attempts to pack committees "just un­believable, absolutely a terrible dis­grace" and demanded an investigation by the attorney general. 
The committees took conflicting 
stands on some issues, including So­
cial Security policy. But there was 
consensus on trying to protect 
present benefits for elderly and keep 
the same level of protection for the 
future. 

Knights of 


Columbus contribute 
By KATHLEEN DOYLE 
News Staff 

Two representatives of the Knights ofColumbus ofNotre Dame will make a monetary contribution to a South Bend charity today at 3:30 pm. 
Ernie Mayor, Grand Knight, amd 
Pete Couzzo, Deputy Grand Knight, 
will present Brother Flavius, C.S.C., 
director of Corvilla House, with a 
donation of 53000. The contribu­
tion will aid in funding the operation 
of this home for the mentally 
retarded. Corvilla House, a private 
institution, receives no state or 
federal aid. 

The Knights of Columbus have 
been aiding Corvilla House for 10 
years; continuing the tradition this 
year, the Knights exceeded their 
goal of S2500, the amount donated 
by the group last year. This year the 
mon t ey was raised by holding steak 
sales at each of the home football 
~ames. •· 

***************************************************~ 
~  AKIWilf St..  ~  "Dog CIW6btw 'Pwdy  !  
*  ~e.~t  fb CH9.C'D'ReK  "**  
!  e.h Ute Kwte 'Dtutte ad St. ltt'"y'& Ce.~tt~ttwcity  !  
* ;  KtOK. nee 1  *!  
!  5:10  Itt~~~  61Vt Ute F~l e.h Ute  !  
~  911tHC~ CatteetJtitm  !  
;  P~~~~ w~t  A.c.c we.cco~tte  !  
~ !  6:30  .CigkUMg e.6 Ute c-~~ Cklli6t.Cl6 Tw Ul 6JtMt ei .Co. Faldwte 6ol!ewed 1uJ a PARTY ill fb 'B~  ~ !  
~  WITH A VISIT  ALL CHILDREN  :  
:  FROM ST· NICK  PLEASE COME  :  

~*************************************************~ 
----~ 
Friday, December 4, 1981 -page 7





Editorials I , 
America, assassinations and. John Len.non 
''The way things are goin' They're gonna crucify me.'' Perhaps this is a year too late. 
But that's how long it's been, this Tuesday, since a confused introvert living in a fantasy world pulled out a small handgun and emptied it into John Ono Lennon, 40, American citizen and renowned proponent of peace. In the year since then, it's been inte!:_csting to observe the reac­
/  -~  -,  
. /  ~~·}  ~  
'  IJ /  /:(/,,  
I .  I  i  J,I ·1  ,  
- '  I  
I'll~~~  

Lordi letter draws response 
Dear Editor: It appears from Professor Loflli's letter publisheJ on hiJay, November 20 that his unJcr­~tanding of how a civil rights class action works i~ not quite accurate. The burden of proof in such an a..:tion i~ not on the defendant eitha in theory or (despite what defense lawyers sometimes feel) in pra..:ti..:e. The lawyer~ who represent the plain­tilh Jo not merely represent the per­son who instituted the litigation; they represent thc whole dass. Their fit­ness to do so must hc shown to the court before the court may allow the das~ a..:tion to proceed. Nor arc the plaintiffs' lawyers paid hy the person who iniated the suit. If they win. they arc paiJ by the opposing party. if they lose they are not paid at all. If the case is settled, their compensa­tion is not provided for in the settle­
ment it is fixed by the court after the settlement is approved. No settle­ment of a class action is possible un­less he is satisfied that it is in the interest of the whole class for him to do so. 
From this role of counsel and judge, I infer that when counsel ac­cepted and the judge approved a settlement giving better terms to Professor Frese than to the other 
tion to the murder of this great man, the overreaction, then the counter­reaction, and so on. The same process is occurring right now, in a more drawn out fashion, over the death of another pop culture celebrity, "the King" of rock 'n' roll, Elvis A ron Presley. In the main, it has become a sickening process which, I fear, is uniquely American. The establishment reaction to the 

P.O. Box Q 
killing of Lennon was -at first ­
surprisingly sympathetic, in the 
media especially, due probably to a 
combination of the nation's guilt and shame over another insane handgun assassination, and the remarkable, ever increasing number of people whom Lennon affected in his short career as' a musician and artist. Magazines, newspapers and broad­cast media, both above and under-
arguing that lawyers and judges arc because in their informed profes­
members of the plaintiff class, it was 
inherently more worthy of credence sional judgment she had a better case 
than English professors, deans, and than the other members of the class. 
provosts. I l}m only pointing out that We must realize, of course, that 
the appeal to authority, if anyone this argument is being carried on 
chooses to make it, can cut either way.
largely in the dark. The appointment and promotion process at Notre 
Meanwhile, Professor Frese is Dame is highly confidential. I am 
about to takt: her place as a tenured member of the faculty. We shall allnot allowed to know what went on have as much opportunity as we wishwhile these decisions about Professor to make up our own minds aboutFrese were being reached. Whatever whether she is competent or incom­Professor Lordi and Professor Duffy petent or, like most of us, somewhereknow, they arc not allowed to say. 
in between. I suggest we dos~ thi>The only people not involved in the t.:ontrovcrsy and let her get on with it. 
process who have had access to in­
formation about it are the lawyers Sin..:ercly. 
Robert E. Rodes, Jr. 
who negotiated the sc!tlt:ment ;md 
the judge who approved it. I am not Professor of Law 


==Ihe_-Obset:Ver== 
Founded November 3, 1966 
The Observer is an independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is report­ed as accurately and as objectively as possible. Editorials represent the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, opinions and letters are the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community, and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, thtOU&h letters, i5 ·encouraged. 
(219)283-8661P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
ground, devoted huge amounts of space and time to mourning the "ex­Beatle," as he was always labeled, and even American network televi­sion produced numerous specials about this British-born rhythm guitar player, poet, and recently retired· househusband. 
''A working class hero 
Is something to be." 

Of course. all this was just irritat­
ing overkill for the many who never 
enjoyed John Lennon, or anything he 
stood for. su..:h as popular music, 
domestit.: happiness, and peace. 
While Time and Newsweek were set­
ting newsstand sales records with 
Lennon memorial issues, these 
people sat back and seethed, then 
reacted when they had endured 
enough adulation and grief. Who was 
this Lennon charat.:ter anyway? 
Didn't he once say the Beatles were 
greater than Jesus Christ. or some­
thing? Didn't he advocate drugs. and 
get busted a lot in L.A. a few years 
hack? And what about that Yoko 
chick? 
One of the things I liked most 
about John Lennon was that he was 
not perfct.:t. Not by a long shot. And 
he would tell you so, right to your 
face, or screaming primally with the 
Plastic Ono Band shrieking behind 
him. Lennon was honest to the point 
of hurting himself. He om:e remarked that if a kid in 1966 had a choice between goirig to see a Beatles concert or seeing Jesus Christ, the kid would go to the show. In 1980, that was even more true. The headline read, Lnmon: Beatles Bix­
ger Than Christ. 
Another of Lennon's imperfec­tions was that he fell in with a had st.:cne in London, and started shoot­ing junk on..:e. But he kicked it. And he wrote about it. in songs like· 'Cold Turkey." He also experienced a painful separation from his wife. lover and probable savior, Yoko Ono. And he did it all in public, al­ways in the spotlight. not an easy task if you think about it. That he died in public was perhaps inevitable. And that Yok<; Ono should ever have endured the baseless hatred th tat was rained upon her fnr a decade. is due in part in this country to our em­barrassingly obvious case of xenop­hobia. 
·'Some call iT maxie, 
To searchji1r the xrail. · · 
The real King is J..:ad. For those 

who subtly welcomed his departure, it was an outrage that a scruffy ro..:k 'n' roll musician should be accorded such worldwide attention. But John Lennon could have foreseen that, especially after wat..:hing the Elvis spectade. He realized that the amount of importance and priority on entertainers was and is riJiculously high, but he also realized, after 15 years as a Beatie, that he could never escape the public eye. So he turned 
around and yelleJ back at it. What 
did he yell? Peace. Peace peace 
peace. Peace. Peace dammit. 
The a!lention which revolved around Lennon after his death, greater than ever before, should have surprised no one. We have an un­usually grisly fascination with mur-
Tom Jackmp1. 
der and assassination in this country. Dealcy Plaza in Dallas docs a great business every November 22 at the site of John Kennedy's killing. The tributes, the apologies, the exploita­tion which follow such an event are predictable, but they arc simply a part of the game we play 
Then there is always the specula­
tion about who killed who, and the 
attention invariably fo~.:uses on the 
brutality of the act, rather than the en­
ding of a human life, especially one 
with the impa<.:t of Lennon's. That is 
wrong. 
·'Livinx is easy ll'ith 1'ye.1· closed, 
·'Mi.1·under~·tandinx all you see.'' 
And somebody shot this guy. Mas­sacred him in cold blood, right in front of his wife (the ultimately terrifying experience), with his five­year-old son five floors above. I'm glaJ television crews weren't arounJ at the time, like they were for Presi­dent Reagan in March (which is ex­actly what they're supposed to he around the president for, by the way). The endless replay would have been too horrifying, too fantastically grotesque. And it would probably he playing in homes as a video novelty a few years later. 
"But 1ww these days 
have gone, I'm not 
so self-assured. 
Now I find I've 
changed my mind, 
I've opened up 

the door." 
Then there is the assassin, always raised instantly to celebrity statu~. even favorably in the ca;e of un­popular victim~. What of Mark Chapman, a diagnosed paranoid schizophrc tnic who truly believes he rules a cnuntry of small invisible people? Having etched his name in history, Chapman joins Sirhan Sir­han Charles Manson. James Earl Ray and others in a unique sort of Rogues Gallery. forever immortalizeJ as an­other American star killer. 
·'AIIIII'ant is the truth.'' 
This gruesome assassination process has happened many times before. It revolted many people that John Lennon was murdered. It revolted more people to sec how the rest of the world reacted to the kill­ing. It will happen again. It seems that the sickening process. in which the act receives more attention than the victim, is not recognized until it happens to someone who has deeply affected one's life and ideas. That shouldn't keep us from dreading it in any and every case. John Lennon was a Working Class Hero. 

j 
Editorial Board I ! 
Editor-in-Cbiej............................. .)ohn McGrath 
l 
Executive News Editor.................... .... Kdli Flint Sports Editor .............................. Michael Ortman News Editor ..................................Tim Vern:llotti 
Photo Editor........................................John Macor
Neu•s Editor............................. David Rickabaugh 
Editorials Editor.......................Anthony Walton
SMCExecutive Editm·...........Mary Agnes Carq 
I
SMC News Edftor......................Cathy Domanico Features Editor .........................Gregory Swiercz 

Department Managers 
Business Manager .........................Rich Coppola Production Manager...................Michael Monk Controller.............................................joe Mulflur Circulation Manager .............Tom Maclennan Advertising Manager.......................Chris Owen SystemsManager ...........................Bruce Oakley 
''··---~·-...... ·4.:i--~~ •.•.__._..._ ......._ .... ___ --.,J.-•• ···~ b---­
l· 



Friday, December 4, 1981 -page 8 



Christmas Nazz brings yuletide cheer_.._ tolllorrow 
C
hristmas in the United States has nights. Many ofthe performers for acts include guitarist Paul Bertolini come to represent a widespread 
this year's Christmas Nazz frequent­. of the Notre Dame Jazz band; Anne set of traditions ranging from the ly perform at the Nazz. but some of Denny, singer and reader of"Twas customary celebration ofChrist's the acts are new to this campus 
the Night Before Christmas;" andnightclub. 
Mark Davis, narrator for "The Bar­
Although the Christmas Nazz is a
By Molly Noland rington Bunny." 'Another favorite
speial production instigated and run 
act, "How the Grinch Stole Birthday, to a jolly fat elf named by the Minstrels, co-chairman Bob 
Christmas," will be performed bySanta Claus, and more recently, to a O'Donnell, the newest Minstrel 
Mark Davis, Greg Sabkowski, Grinch who supposedly stole (alias Seamus), stresses that the Anne Denny, George

show is "an all student production Wilmes ( Fanago ), Christmas. 
for the students, in the tradition of refuses to let exams block the yearly the Nazz". Matt Feeney (Jester) Bill Eckert,and celebration of these customs. For Bob 0'Donnell (Seamus). 
A small group at Notre Dame 

'The format of this year's Christmas the last five years their spirit has Nazz, to be held tomorrow night 'Other Christmas traditions include produced the "Chnstmas Nazz" (so 
from 9 pm to approximately called because ofits location in the 
I l :30pm, includes thirteen acts of Nazz in LaFortune's basement), an 
songs, skits, and readings all related event which evokes the Christmas 
to Christmas. The only two remain­spirit on campus with songs, skits 
ing Minstrels on campus, co­
chairmen O'Donnell and Feenoy,
and readings. Who art· these people, and why will act as emcees for the event as Bob 0 'Donnell 
are they so obscure? Perhaps be­
well as providing some entertain­cause they number a mere five mem­
ment to continue the Minstrel tradi­bers (only two of~ hom still reside tion. George Wilms ( Fanago ), a on campus). This fraternity ofsin­
"graduate Minstrel" will return this 
gers call themselves the "Minstrels," year to accompany the other cast and have attempted to bring a members in the presentation.ofDr. semblance ofromance back into our 
Scuss'sGrinch. somewhat sterile world. 
Because the Christmas Nazz is in­
Started in 1977 by Carl Casazza tentionally tied to the past, most of and Matthew Feeney (aliases the songs and acts, such as"How the "Ringo" and "Jester") the Minstrels Grinch Stole Christmas," "The Bar­
originally wandered around campus rington Bunny," and "Twas the 
serenading dozens ofdamsels 
Night Before Christmas," will appear beneath their dormatory windows. in the program for the fifth straight On December lOth of that year, 
year. And although many ofthe per­


Casazza and Feeney (both of Howard Hall) created the "Christmas Nazz" as an offshoot of  formers have changed, the key to the show's success is the traditional showing ofthe "Christmas regulars".  a Charles Dickens re:ading, a reading of"Yes Virginia, There is a Santa  
their role as campus minstrels. Although the first show consisted ofall Howard Hall acts performed for Howard residents, it caught on and spread campus wide. According to magician/entertainer Mark Davis, the Christmas Nazz. was "one ofthe  Even the simple story ofthe Grinch has be .come an unbreakable Christmas ritual to many people, just as others claim that Christmas would not be the same without the three mandatory showings of Dick­en's "A Christmas Carol" each year.  Claus," and a Nativity rea~!Jng by Seamus, Joe Caufield and John Faryt. 'Rounding out the entertainers arc Chris Cipoletti and Dan Kcusal. As a finale, a group from the chapel choir will sing traditional Christmas Carols.  
greatest entertainment experiences I've ever had."  The introduction to tomorrow's "Christmas Nazz" will feature the  Thanks to the Minstrels, a little bit ofChristmas spirit and romance still  
'Throughout the year, the Nazz features local and campus talent and  two campus Minstrels, O'Donnel and Feeney, who will sing the  exists in the '80's. The Christmas Nazz seems a perfect opportunity to  


opening song accompanied by catch up on some ofour forgotten
is open for students' free entertain­
Photos by Carry Koplin 
ment Thursday, Friday and Saturday O'Donncl's guitar. Specially featured traditions, even at exam time. 
The necessity of convenience 
I
'm confused. crust: "Dahling I simply must have they never were, iftheir inventor 
I recently came across an old that fur...'" (Sometimes they do com­had never lived. Some would say 
review ofRaiders ofthe Lost Ark. plete the thought), "...or I'll just die." that life would be unlivable. Think of 
Gene Siskel said last summer that it all the things we would be without
The problem is that '·necessity" is 
was a must. I haven't seen it yet and I -the Golden Gate bridge ... Ohio
being used more and more these 
am still here: alive and, except for a turnpike ... Detroit ... drunk
days. It has come to apply to every­
bad tooth from· a recent overdose of drivers?
thing from food and water to PAC­
.Sugar Sm:acks, rca!>onably well. What was probably called the
MAN. "Conveniences" on the other
A simil.ar occurence:"Abner (my luxury ofthe auto has become the
hand seem to he on the way out.
lovable 1971 Oldsmobilt•) needs a necessity of t~nsportation. It was a
Their decline is due to a very short
rebuilt carburetor." said Rex, my slow evolution. It occured much
life expectancy rather than a low 
trusty mechanic. ":-.Jo question more quickly in the case ofair con­
birthrate. The research staffs of the
about it." That was last August. No ditioning, the automatic dishwasher,
corporate world pump out luxuries 
one has touched Abner's innards and all those wonderful instant

with blinding speed, but the 
foods -Cup o'Svup. Mug o'Lunch,
advertising world wastes little time 
Bunch o'Noodles etc. Life is now

miraculously transforming them in­
@~G~ ....
much easier; we have more time.
Paul Kosidowski 

to "necessities." 
But we try to save still more time ­
194<J1!1i1F. 
Take video games (please!): enter microwave cooking, McChick­
Second Thoughts Atari's advertising department in­en, McLunch, McDinner. banks in street. Necessities, once born, never my life will he. It is sometimes un­our supermarkets, restaurants in our
formed me some time ago that it was die. It took our parents years to give pleasant. out to turn the peace and quiet of banks, gas stations in our res­us what we have, yet we expect our We face economic hardshipssince May and he's still running ­
every American living room into the taurants, pharmacies in our gas sta­lives to change little as we make that today also. We are to "tighten our 
90,000 miles young. 

insanity ofa penny arcade. Judging tions. sudden and terrifying transition belts." It has been a while since I ran Need and must are usually Being busy at college, I don't
from current Christmas shopping from dependent to provider. into someone selling apples or pen­followed by an achievable condi­statistics, they're on their way. really know what people arc doing Today, parents loan substantial cils, but I know a few people who tion. as in "One needs Linear with all this time -becoming more
These electronic marvels wj)) tread sums of money to their children; had to get rid ofa tax shelter or two. 
Analysis to get a job" or"I must have the paths ofother electronic mar­active in the community, returning 
they make down payments on our Just like everything else, they don't Big Mac's to surviYe." Perhaps I vels before them -the televisions to school. starting a new career, or 
dream houses. We need loans be­make recessions like they used to. 
overlooked the remainder of Rex's maybe playing games in penny
and the stereos. They will soon be cause we cannot give up the weekly But we do complain. No one likes statement: -"Abner needs a rebuilt 
"givens" in American households arcade living rooms. I am most nights on the town or the yearly to tighten their belt, but it may be a 
carburetor to have a chance on the rather than mere "novelties." puzzled when I try to separate all 
vacations which we have grown ac­little easier ifwe take offsome oftheGran Prix circuit this year." But I wonder if Henry Ford ever this into cause and effect. Do we feel customed to. 
cashmirc sweaters we're wearing.then, perhaps not. thought of the implications ofhis in­compelled to save time because we We need our musts. This is the season for thinking There are quite a few fragmented vention. Internal combustion have so much to do or are we so Our parents and grandparents had about people who don't have what need's and must's floating around in engines are responsible for every­busy because we have so much 
to face the challenges ofa great we have. It is a time ofcharity. I will conversa1:ion these days. Try to lis­thing from getting the kids home time? depression and three wars. We are try to think about what/ have or ten for them. But don't be fooled; from the playground to getting the There is something tragic about 
the symbols of their persistence and don't have, about needs and musts, some conversationalists use clever bombs to where they are to be this phenomenon for our genera­courage. It sometimes occurs to me about what I depend on and what I 
disguises ("Daiquiris arc key" or "a dropped. If they were to suddenly tion, we who have been brought up that, for us, starting where they left may come to depend on. fix ofSpringsteen" ). They have even disappear, the world would certain­to have everything our parents 
off, mere survival is not enough. I It seems I have a lot to think about. rctu.-ned as catchwords ofthe upper ly collapse. It would be different if never had. We are on a one-way wonder who or what the symbols of I hope I have the time. 
=-I 
The Observer--Features 
Friday, December 4, 1981 -page 9 j 
1 
1 
. 

The fortunes of war 
T
he tirst casualty of World War II, as far as I was con­
cerned, was my brother. lk wasn't wounded or 
kilkd in any ofthe big batiks against the Germans or 
Japanese, but he was wounded by the war. He suffered 
pain every time he read a newspaper. I couldn't stand to 
stay in the same room with him when the radio was on, 
reporting American losses in the South Pacific. He would yell and swear and carry on as though he could fed every sniper's bullet lodging somewhere in his brain. I felt that he envied the dead, for in the big war, at least, they had had their chance to be heroes. 
<>n December 8, 1941, he tried to enlist. The problem was that hl' had been seriously injured in an auto accident two years bd(>re, and the services wouldn't touch him until his injuries were healed. He had, as a result ofhis accident, just the slighest stagger in his walk which would undoubtedly disappear with timl'. You probably wouldn't even notice it, but doctors 
notked it, when he went for a physical. He tried to talk 
the ml·dks into passing him. but they always said the 
same thing: "It wouldn't bc fair to you. You could get 
hurt too easily." 
Ill' would come home looking as whipped as a galley 
~lave. humiliated and ashamed; rejected by the Army, 
th~: Navy, and the Marines, and finally classitkd by the 
Draft Board as 4-F. "This is thl" Big Show ofour genera­
tion," he said in the fustian rhetoric that young ml·n use 
in war. "There were guys down at the armory, trying to fail their physicals. Th~:n· were guys wetting their pants over having to go. Thcy're drafting the cowards and kel·ping home the heroes. Wl· deserve to lose the damned war." 
It st.:ared me to hl·ar him talk about losing the war. I was a young kid in high school. I had s~:~:n the newsceels of thl· goose -stepping German armies and the planes making rubble out ofcities. He was my brother, and he wa~ hurting; hut as llllu.:h a~ Ilov~:d him, I was surc we hadn't don~: anything to des~:rvl" to los~: the war. 
"Shut up," I ydled at him. "I don't lik~: hearing talk 
likl' that. What would happen to thl" family, if the Ger­
mans l'ame? What would happ~:n to Nana and 
Grandpa?" 
"Wl·t.:ould tight them on the beaches," he said. in a 
line out ofChurchill. "We could drivl" them into the sea. 
The old men could tight beside the young men, and 
nobody would ask whet)J,Sir your draft board knew you 
Wl'fl' carrytng a gun. 
My father had come into the room while we were 
talking. lie said to my brother: "I hate to hear you wis­
hing harm to your country." To me, he said: "I'm sorry 
to ~l·e you afraid. Your grandfather was a brave man, and 
his fatha was a soh.lier. as brave as they come, in the 
Civil War. We may nevl·r have been great heroes, hut 
nonl· of us was afraid; or, if we were, we kept the secret 
until (iod was our judge." 
Ik turned back to my brother. "Why don't you go to <:anada," he said, "ami try to enlist there? The Canadians have h~:en fighting since 19:W. Maybe they have lowt:rl'd the fitness n·4uirements. Afellow like you might he able to get by the doctors in a small country that has already lost a lot of men in action." 
"I've thought of the RCAF," my brother said. "Their 


Rev. Robert Griffin 
Letters to a Lonely God 
doctors are tougher than our own." 
"Then you probably wouldn't make it," my father 
said. "Canadian fliers are the best and the beautiful. But 
when the casualties have been heavy, any service takes 
a second look around. It will be the same here, ifthe war 
lasts long enough. The tillest are called up early, and the: 
lame shall be last, instead offirst, and the halt shall not 
enter at all." 

"They'll be suspicious," my brother said. "They'll 
want to know why I'm classified as 4-F." 
"I never taught you to lie," my father said. "Ifthey 
won't take you, it will be for a good reason, same as 
here. There's only one piece ofadvice I want to give 
you." 

''I'm listening," my brother said. 
"Never speak badly ofyour country," he said. "That's part ofpatriotism. Aman loves his country like he loves his family hy himsdf, without flag or home, a man isn't worth anything." 
My brother never made it into a Canadian outfit. One day, we got a card from Halifax, Nova Scotia. My brother wrote that he was shipping out. He'd been able to get in­to the Merchant Marine. 
It was nearly a year before we saw him again. He had seen men die, but he never mentioned it. He wasn't going back, he told us. He got tired very easily as though he had been drawing on energies that burned out early. There was a sadness about him that made him a stran­ger. Old sailors have a certain kind of look, when they'Vl' hl·~:n in peril on the sea. My brother, I thought, had that look. 
On December I';, 194';, my father died. Icame home from my first semester at college for the funeral. Talking with my brother. lmentionl·d how happy dad had been for him when he got into the war in the only way he could t1nd. lk said: "Dad was the best man I ever met, but he told me one thing I know is wrong. Do you remember the night that the three of us talked?" 
"Yes," I said. My father made me ashamed that night. I hated being ashamed from a judgment made of me by my father. 
"Dad told me I should never speak badly of my country," he said. "But t•very time I hear the Presidetll and the politicians talk ofgetting into war, and peopk cheer them instead ofshouting "Bull----," I think badly of my country, and I would never hesitate to say so. Ifpatriotism means saying, 'My country, right or wrong,' then I would hate being a patriot." 
As I said in the beginning, my brother got hurt by World War II. After forty years, I'm not sure if his wounds would have 4ualified him for the gratitude of his government and the American people. He certainly wasn't buried with military honors. 

Campus squirrels 
speak out on issues 
A
ny visitor to the Notre Dame campus sees many interesting 
sights which have years ofhistory and explanations connected to 
them. One prominent campus feature though, which is lacking a 
public history, is the large population ofs4uirrels. Where did they 
come from? Why are they so weird looking? 
To find an answer, I went to the most obvious source: the lillie 
buggers themselves. You ask: How can the stupid crillers have the 
answer? Well, as I found out, the little guys talk. 
I first suspected it when one day I happened upon an old priest 
squalling down in front of two s4uirrels, handing each one peanuts, 
one at a time. Making sure not to disturb them, I approached very 
quietly. As I drew into ear-shot, I overheard the priest say, "...so 
then I said, 'Ted, you can't do that, you're a priest!'" Both s4uirrels 
promptly fell over, their lillie furry bodies wracked with rodent 
mirth. Chuckling, the priest 
looked up, and noticing me, 
began nervously tossing 


peanuts, saying "Here S4Uirre-Robert Wack 
ly, nice squirrely." Both s4uir­
rels immediately straightened 

up and played dumb. but it Humor 
was too late. I knew some­
thing was t1shy. 

My suspicions were confirmed a week later when I witnessed a 
prank pulled by three ofthe creatures. I was silting on thl' 4uad onl' 
afternoon, when I noticed a young couple approaching a single 
s4uirrel with a dining hall doughnut. At first it appeared timid, shying 
toward a nearby tree trunk. The coupk advanced slowly. extending 
the morsel before them. The s4uirrel came forward, retrt.'ated, came 
forward again. appearing very indecisive. Then I noticed two oth~:r 
s4uirrels in the br~nches abov~:, waiting silently. The one on the 
ground seemed to be drawing the couple undernl·ath tht· two above. 
This continued for a few minutes until, suddenly, the s4uirrel below 
darted to the tree trunk and disappeared. Simultant•ously, the coupk 
was showered with a barrage ofrodent refuse, w~:tting tht.'ir hair and 
staining their Izods. With a smirk ofadmiration,! realized that th t csc 
weren't ordinary s4uirrl'ls. 

My tirst personal encounter occurred on an afternoon when I was 
feeling particularly melancholy. Slowly walking down the 4uad, I 
happened upon one of them assiduously foraging through a brim­
ming wastebasket. We both stopped what Wl' were doing and looked 
at each other. As the silence grew, finally I spoke. 
"What is the purpose ofsuffering, 0 s4uirrl'l? Why must there be 
hurt and pain'" 

The s4uirrel looked at me and blinked, then returned to his task. 
Feeling very stupid. I turned and began walking away when I heard a 
voice behind me. 

"Maybe it's a part of living. Life is a problem to hl· solved and 
suffering is a factor in the e4uation." 
Iwhirled around to t1nd no one there but the s4uirrl'l, peering at 
me keenly. Resuming his search, he said, "But what do I know, I'm 
only a glorified gerbil." 

Heroically ballling the urge to wet myself in disbelief, I managl·d 
to stammer, "B-but were do ynu get that from?" 
"I'm double majoring in philosophy and math. I hope to write on 
the subject one day." He jumped oft' the trash can and waddkd over 
to a bench. "C'.mere, have a scat." 
Dumbfounded, I walked over. Finally overcoming my awe, I 
asked, "You go to school here?" 
"T Yeah," he replied maller-of-factly. "N.D. is one of the few 
schools that has a Philo program for talking s4uirrels. Besides, I'm 
from this area." He nibbkd on a halfeaten Huddk burger, then 
threw it away with a sound ofdisgust. 
"Does anybody else know about you guys?" l4uericd in wonder­
ment. 

"No, the University likes us to keep a low protik. Sure. some ofthe 
priests talk to us, and a few weird students. I talk to a lot of drunks, 
too. Seems that's about all the conversation a s4uirrd can get around 
here." 

"This is unbelil'vabk." I muttered. shaking my head. "But why hen·'" I asked. "Where did you guy1> conH· from'" "I told you we're from this area. We couldn't alwap talk, y'know. It all started when that Radiation I.ah was huilt many yl·ar~ ago. 
Bet(>rc that, all thl· squirrels werl· skinnv little rats tllat werl' ahout as sharp as howling halls. Thl·n, gradually. bigger and smarter squirrcb were being born. We started hanging around the l.ibrary, reading 
books. At night we'd sneak into the listening labs in O'Shag and listt·n to language tapes. When tht' University found out about us. they tried to cover u~ up for ft-ar we'd turn the school into a tourist attrat·­tiun and ruin its academic reputation. So we sort ofblal·kmaill'd them. They give us a h'l."l'education, we keep 4ukt." 
"Unbdkvahlc. Don't peopk get suspicious when till'}' sec !mgt· s4uirrels with enormous heads waddling arund campus? You guys never run around likl' normal s4uirrels. Aren't 4Ul'stions asked?" 
"Why should we run? Security has orders to arrt•st anyone who bugs us. As for snoopers, thq· haVl· a bunch ofstories to give out keep them happy. 
"Amazing," I mumbled. 

"So now you know the story. I'd kl'Cp 4uiet though, if I were you. 
This is sort ofa touchy suhjel'l with the Administration. We're brt'ed­
ing so fast, they have to build anothl'r residence hall t(>r us. We're 
also trying to get e4ual tinancial support for sports teams under Title 
IX. What am I saying! Listen, I better shut up, for your sake. Just for­get we had this little conversation. You could get in big trouble for spreading it around." 
''I'm not sure anyone would believe me anyway. Thanks a lot." The s4uirrd jump~:d offthe bench and started offacross the 4uad. 
As I watched, he stoppt·d and turned back to ml· and said, "Back to you vny first 4uestion. Life at N.D. isn't all winning foot hall and good
See in Features 
grades. Just likt· in the n·al world, everyone's got to have a bad day 
j
now and then. Tighten up and stay cool. Later."
Pat Mulligan's review of Southern Comfort Mo-nday 
"What a smart s4uirrd,'' I thought to myself. 
The Observer Friday, December 4, 1981 -page 10 



~-------~----------­
I 
Friday, December 4, 1981 -page 11
Sports Brie/§ 
I 
Classifieds  The Observer will accept classifieds Mon­day through Fnday, 10 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. However. classifieds to appear in the next 1ssue must be received by 3 p.m. the business day pnor to insertion. All classifieds must be prepaid. etther 1n person or through the mail.  
NOTICES 1 ~..--1_w_AN_T_Eo_ __J SEASON B-BALL TIX GOOD SEATS (CHEAP) PKG A AND/OR B 287-9342 .....____________, FLORIDA nders needed for X-Mass cashwtse: the usual. call-7735 anyttme thaMED SCHOOL? SUPERMEMORY PLD.I 7 , ,K SHOP. HOURS WED., leave message ok? techntques bnelly descrtbed and spectft­SAT., SUN. 9·7. CASPERSON, 1303 cally applted to medtcal subtects-­BUCHANAN RD., NILES. Need nders to OMAHA tor Chnstmas espectally anatomy. Send $4.95 $1 lor Call Carne at 4654 postage and handltng to: Memory: c/oUSED & OUT·PRINT BOOKS bought. The Observer P 0 Box 2452 Ann Arbor. sold. searched ERASMUS BOOISS. Need nders from Atlanta to ND on Jan.t 0 Ml 48106 I wtsh I had read thts book Tues·Sunday.l2-6 1027E Wayne(One or 11. Call Carne at 4654 before taktng Comparattve Vertebrate block south ol Eddy· Jefferson tntersec­Anatomytlon) MINNESOTANSIIIIII I need a nde home to St. Paul. MN for Xmas. leavtng the 19th THANK YOU FOR SALE Boston-Chtcago EXPERIENCED TYPIST WILL DO One catch -· I'm graduattng, and need to stand-by atr ttcket $100. Call237-4318 TYPING. CALL 287-5162 take all my stuff home If you will take me and my stuff only. I'll pay all expensesWatch for The Soctety tor Creattve $20. PLEASE HELP!! X3445 Anacrontsm nght after Chnstmas break! TICKETSNeed nde to Cleveland for Xmas. Please call John at 8450. ATTENTION ALUMS & CHICAGO BOUND STUDENTS The Notre Dame TUTOR-part ltme-for educ center. Re· NEED HOME BASKETBALL TIX CALL Club of Chtcago wtll sponsor thetr annual qutres tn-depth knowledge of college level DENNIS 8712 Chnstmas Mass and Brunch on Dec. I 3.. Btology. Cham. and Physics. Seektng1981 at 11am Mass wtll be held at St. graduate student wtlh teachtng exp. for UCLA TIX FOR SALE 3793$$$ Mtchael's Pansh tn Old Town Brunch wtll weekend classes begtnntng mtd·Jan thru follow at 12:30 at the Ambassador West April Call232·2366 bet. 10-4. One patr of Rodney Dangerfield ltckets-Hotel Please contact JoAnn at the N D. 15th row-best offer-call1972 Club offtce at 312·263-6063 for reserva­Rtde needed to Pittsburgh/Wheeling area ttons for Christmas. Can leave Tuesday ntght Look1ng for three festival or lower arena or Wednesday. Call Scott at 6931 tickets to the Foretgner concert. Will make I WOULD RESPECTFULLY ASK THAT an offer. Thts is a must Call 291-0008 WHOEVER MISTAKENLY REMOVED Need nde to ATLANTA tor Chnstmas. Ask for Kevin MY JACKET FROM THE UPPER CON· Can leave Wednesday afternoon CallCOURSE OF THE A C. C. ON MONDAY Dave at6931 PITTSBURGH CHRISTMAS BUS SIGN· BETWEEN 4 30 AND 6:00 RETURN IT UPS. thts SUNDAY. Dec 6 at 7:00 TO ME IT IS NAVY BLUE. AND TUCKED I need a nde to and from the Phtladelphta­LaFortune Ltttle Theater Be there. INSIDE ONE OF THE POCKETS WAS A AIIentown. PA·South Jersey-Delaware Aloha!!!!! NAVY STOCKING CAP WITH A TAS· (you get the tdea) area for ChnstmasSELl HOPE YOUR CONSCIENCE break I can leave Thursday ntght. MUFFY. HAPPY BIRTHDAY!!! Don·t getWONT ALLOW ME TO FREEZE THIS Dec 17. around 6.15 p m and can share too O.O.C. tontght!!l WINTER. PLEASE CALL ED AT xl905. expenses Call Tim at 1536 BIFF AND THE KIDS DON'T WAIT Need a rtde to. and from Northern N.J for Christmas break Rtght off Route 80 Can FOR A GOOD TIME •• SIGN-UPS thts leave Saturday morntng. Call Mtke 1181. SUNDAY DEC. 6 at 7.00 tn LaFortuneLOST/FOUND NEED RIDERS West on 1·80 to San Fran­Linle Theater lor the PITTSBURGH CLUB CHRISTMAS BUS A real tnp! LOST· A 58·C Texas Instrument Cal· cisco for X·MAS culator about a week ago maybe tn the BABY. YOU CAN DRIVE MY CAR .. ATCell Btology Class If found. please ca~ 10 AVOID THE CHRISTMAS RUSH ! THE UCLA GAME SUNDAYAT2.6737 or return to 143 Farley Hall plan now to gtve me a nde to CONNEC­TICUT FOR XMAS break Wtll share Baby. you gotta be cruel to be ktnd.. NoLOST LADIES BROWN DEARSKIN usual. call Doug at 831 0 Newspapers for UCLA. Car Keys Instead.GLOVES WITH RABBIT FUR LINING-­OLD AND MENDED..NO QUESTIONS IN DIRE NEED OF RIDE TO WILL BE ASKED·-288-9322 SYRACUSE. NY AREA FOR XMAS BREAK Ill Can leave Dec 18. wtll share Tom. Too bad you can I light anyones ftre but your own and maybe Ropers???LOST. ND CLASS RING OUTSIDE usual. Call STEVE at 8317. SENIOR BAR FRIDAY NIGHT NAME PAUL MCGINN. SOMETHING THE CATINSIDE IF FOUND. PLEASE CALL PHIL I NEED A PLACE TO STAY NEXT DRAGGED OUT!II PERKINS AT 8338 SEMESTER.(4/AER0) PLEASE CALL 277·7794 Mtke D D.D.S. CONGRATULATIONS onATTENTION IF YOU HAVE NOT AL­ell of your acceptances Your dearest fan. READY FOUND A NEWSPAPER FOR atlanta atlanta atlanta ShawnTHE UCLA GAME. PLEASE DO IM· I need nde to and from. I can leave MEDIATELY. LErS MAKE THIS YEAR Thursday ntght and would ltke to return Rock and Rollera I need two ltckets toAS SUCCESSFUL AS LAST YEAR eventually No hurry though Take me wtth you I Call Jeb 8649 atlanta atlanta at-the Foreigner concert Call Tom "Rock FOUND. Grey cat wtth whtte paws and lanta and Roll Droutllard at 1 073 tf you can helpchest found tn Hayes-Healy No collar. but well-groomed Please call 234· 7483 UCLA-THE BEST TEAM MONEY CANto tdenttfy FOURTH FEMALE ROOMMATE NEEDED FOR TWO BEDROOM BUY Vrrrroooooom Found. On the South Quad by Alumnt and CAMPUS VIEW AAPARTMENT. CALL the Law butldtng. a patr ol glasses tn a 272·1661 black glass case Report to THE OB­SERVER offtce to clatm them TWO ROOMMATES NEEDED FOR PERSONALS HOUSE ON NOTRE DAME AVENUE LOST Tl·58 CALCULATOR YOU CANT CALL 232-8301 MISS IT. CRACKED DISPLAY IF THE ZAHM COFFEEHOUSE IS OPEN FOUND PLEASE CALL 277·7794 MY EVERY THURSDAY FOR YOUR EXIS. CAREER AS AN ENGINEER DEPENDS TENTIAL PLEASURE. OFFERING THE ON FINEST IN LIVE ENTERTAINMENT,,j FOR SALE COFFEE, TEA, HOMEMADE DONUTS, FREE POPCORN AND PAT GALLAG­HER. COME DOWN AND SEE IF OURFOR RENT Have 3 basketball ltcket packages for PROFESSIONAL CONVER· sale. Lower arena. Best offer Sell in­SATIONALISTS ARE PAID ENOUGH. dtvtdually or together. Call Mtke or Ted at 9-12 EVERY THURSDAY NIGHT, FOR NEXT SEMESTER HOUSE AND 1181 ZAHM BASEMENT. APARTMENTS 234·2626 STEREOS JUST IN TIME FOR X· MAS! ATTENTION • ATTENTION the Prest· Next Sem Housemate $80 p/m tncl all FANTASTIC DEALS ON ALL MAJOR dent of the HE-MAN WOMAN HATERS Ultl 233-3552 BRANDS OF STEREO GEAR! BOSE-H· CLUB deltvers hts first sample of K. JVC-MANY OTHERS· MANY SPE­Prestdenttal sagactousness "there areWANTED I MALE ROOMMATE TO CIALS FOR THE STUDENT BUDGET! very few females 11 notre dame -just a101SHARE CAMPUS VIEW APT 2ND CALLJ 8 AT 8228! of non-m.tes " stay tuned lor the ttme and SEMESTER 120 00/MO TRADITION· place of our great President's first lecture · AL PARTY APT DON T CALL UNLESS FOR SALE: 15 wan stereo recetvar wrth How to start a woman hater s club soYOU.RE A REAL CHARACTER . 277­equaltzer. tape deck. and patr of successful that 3 gtrls fOtn up·0617. speakers Call Cectl Rucker at 8223  Expenenced typtsl .. reasonable Mrs Bedford 288·21 07 Hours BAM to 5PM TYPING DONE ON CAMPUS BY PROFESSIONAL SECRETARY. LOW RATES, QUICK SERVICE. CALL X­1315. NIGHTSOUNDS 105 FM 10:30 P.M Wade-good luck at the meets-a secret ad­mtrer I NEED A RIDE TO AND FROM PHILL Y AT CHRISTMAS. CAN LEAVE ON THE 19TH OR AFTER. WILL SHARE USUAL CALL MARYEVA AT 2915. Go. Chamber Pots! The personal battle as begun. May it con· ltnue unconstlpated and unedtted!l! Two weeks of tmplytng. mventlng and reveal­tng obnoxtous.vulgar.tncnminattng hes that can tarnsh even the worst of reputa· ttons. LONG LIVE SMUT!!! !love it! SAY HAPPY HOLIDAYS AND SHOW HER THAT YOU CARE WITH A BOU· OUET OF FLOWERS DELIVERED EACH WEDNESDAY FOR 4 WEEKS. (WE CAN BREAK FOR XMAS BREAK OR WILL DELIVER IF YOUR LADY IS STAYING ON CAMPUS/ IN TOWN WEDNESDAYS FLOWERS 289 1211 We all want to wtsh you. ANNE LAN­GENSTEIN. a HAPPY 22nd BIRTHDAY Love. Sparky. Fltnt. John B .. Jerry F and PASOUERILLA WEST are KofC HAPPY HOURS as much tun as the UCLA CHEERLEADERS ? FIND OUT on FRIDAY at 4 at the K of C BUILD­ING LLL, I was born to boogie .. Tripper LAURA MARIE..when will I see you agam? ATTENTION· A TTENTIO,N He-Man Essay Contest tn 25 words or less descnbe why you chose to be a He-Man woman hater PRIZES Grand Pnze · $25 gtft certtftcate 1st prtze · All expense paid date wtlh a townte 2nd prtze · a bat to beat on abustve ND-SMC Non Males 3rd pnze -He-Man Woman Hater T·Shtrt Submtt entnes by 12/6/81 to club prestdent start wrnlng How does Manana make a battleship float? Wtth some root beer. two scoops of •ce cream. and a batt1esh1p! PHILADELPHIA CHRISTMAS BUS NOW ACCEPTING RESERVATIONS. $8000 ROUND· TRIP. LEAVE DEC.18 5:30PM. FOR MORE INFO. CALL DAVE 6740 OR CHUCK 8702 IMPORTANT! The I HATE INDIANA club wtll hold tis charter meettng tn the south dome of the ACC on Sat.. Dec 5, at 2:00PM. ATTENTION. PITTSBURGH CHRISTMAS BUS SIGN·UPS -· SUN· DAY. DEC. 6 at 7.00 PM tn LaFortune Little Theater. Buses will leave on Thursday. Dec. 17 at 1 :00 PM and on Saturday. Dec. 19 at 11:00 AM from the CCE. All buses wtll return to ND on Man· day Jan 11 departtng from the Greyhound Termtnal Downtown at 1 :00 PM. Round trip ts $45.00 and one way ts $29.00. NO REFUNDS. Any questions? •• Call BRIAN EICHENLAUB at 1581 before 12:00 AM. The BOSTON CLUB wtll have an impor· tant meetmg tor any and all who w1s to take the BUS home for XMAS. Thts is the only meettng. so you MUSTanend. MON­DAY. 12/7. 7:00PM. LaFortune Ltnle Theater. Brtng cash or ceck for full payment· SII0 roundlnp. $60 one-way.  JOIN the KNIGHTS OF Alii destre tor Chnstmas ts a jug of wtne. a COLUMBUS NOTRE DAMES ONLY box of TRUFFLES. and thou FRATERNITY IINDUCTION ts SUNDAY AT NOON .. CALL 7018 for tnlormatton HEY JIM CHIP. GILLIES!! Are you gotng to tnvtte us to your PREPPY PARADISEHelen F tS the only thtng that could lure on NANTUCKET?South·stder Bnan McMahon to Notre Dame Have tun Saturday ntght! To the platd lover who asked me to marry htm tn South Dtntng Hall Mon. ntght-don·t KEVIN BALDWIN. how many ltmes have you thtnk we should get to know eachyou swt!ched your maJor today? other a hnle better ftrst? P S. Sewtng tsnl my only domesttc sktll Laura Mane. you are a REAL fox! JMP Bnng your car keys tomorrow DnveHow do you s1nk a Manana battleship? UCLA out of the ACC Put 11 m water A very spectal Top 20 Time Tunnel wtll Last year 11 was newspapers, thts yearclose out lhts semester on Sunday ntght CAR KEYS II.tbust> tbe bruin~ II Hou•at 7 on WSND-AM 64 Jotn Ttm Neely for abaullbe dancing lrlsb doing "Babyyouthe top 20 songs lhts week tn 1967 -can drlr~ my c:•r" or "Ctn·wtUb"tncludtng tunes by the Beatles. Gladys Kntght and the Ptps. and the Monkees. et 9·C GRACE THANKS FOR AN E T VENT· at -PLUS the top 10 Chnstmas songs FUL AND FUN EVENING! WE MUST DO wtch made the top 20 dunng the rock era IT AGAIN! LOVE BP L1sten 1n and rehve your ghosts of Cnstmases past HEY BP, WE BEAT YOU TO THE PUNCH AGAIN BUT WE DO WISH TO THANK YOU FOR THE THANK YOU Rachel. OUR SECTION IS ALWAYS READY TO It s been a wonderful year Remember DO IT AGAIN! moose ears .. Dr Zh1vago aand French OUR TRUE LOVE ALWAYS exams marathon phone calls .long lot­9·CGRACE tenes. but we have a good 11me when we go out n1ghts wtth the dryer m the Hey John B mens room. double Double D s...(of Get your sell a REAL beer cant course). more marathon phone Guess Who calls. San FranCISCO and the w1nmng shot you re ftred the Angel Award THANKS FOR THE FRAGRENT GIFT! and Denny s for breakfast a ntght aat Darby s Place.. mushy let-ATTENTION HMWHC We weren I aware ters uncomfortable explanations Sox that there were any HE MEN on thts Wtn! Sox Wtn!" (sorry about the campus Domer Deltghts Royals) ...chorus How bout them Hawks?I' ptzza at Bruno s .and I could See any ghosts yet. Scrooge? go on and on... May the next year be as ·The guys wtlh CHRISTMAS memorable as the last SPIRIT on Stanford 1 NS A Fnend Always. Ttm BOSTON BOUND from Taunton searchtng for a nde to and from for X·mas break or any place The baldtng shade speaks puns nearby Take me wtth you. Call Colleen at Not dtsturbtng sleepy nuns 41-4424! He types on a selectnc When not talktng he tS Qutle quiCk PITTSBURGH CHRISTMAS BUS SIGN· He yells when he s not restless UPS lhts SUNDAY. Dec 6 at 7:00 Or when the papar s a mess LaFortune Ltltle Theater Be there He s pleased. tl s catchtng on Aloha II!!I I Sit here. whtle approacheth dawn Watltng lor the dtntng cue MUFFY. HAPPY BIRTHDAY!!! Don't get How long can this conttnue? too O.O.C tontghtlll BIFF AND THE KIDS Herotcally yours. tn couplets The Ttred Poet GOODNIGHT! FOR A GOOD TIME -· SIGN-UPS lhts SUNDAY DEC 6 at 7.00 tn LaFortune Thank you To the person who found my letter and sent tl back to me by campus Lttlle Theater lor the PITTSBURGH matt. A Zltoba CLUB CHRISTMAS BUS A real tnpl KEENAN HALL PROUDLY AN· Humpty Dumpty sal on the wall. NOUNCES THE FORMATION OF A Humpty Dumpty had a great fall NEW SECTION--HEREBY TO BE All the Ktng s horses. DENOTED AS I-SOUTH. APPLICA· And all the Ktng s men. TIONS FOR SECTION WENCH ARE !$() the Queen · BEING TAKEN. A LIST OF REQUIRE· AN and T M MENTS. RESPONSIBlLITIES AND SALARY IS POSTED ON THE DOOR OF BABY. YOU CAN DRIVE MY CAR AT 146 KEENAN HALL THE UCLA GAME SUNDAY AT 2 Mtke. Ill meet you and Mr Bubble in the Baby. you galla be cruel to be ktnd .No tub tontle. Forget the water:we can make Newspapers lor UCLA. Car Keys Instead our own bubbles! MART 0 BRIEN. Is tl true that Kelly needs Tom. Too bad you can·t ltght anyones ltre a crane? but your own and maybe Ropers??? Hoo schker -dou PAUL MCGINN.SOMETHING THE CAT DRAGGED OUTIII Jingle, Jingle. Vroom, vroom. Bnng your car keys. and dnve the Mtke D D.D.S. CONGRATULAliONS on Bruins back to L A. ell of your acceptances Your dearest fan, Shawn NAIVE ONE..HAVE YOU BEEN TACT· Rock end Roll8ra I need two ttckets to FUL TO A CLASSY DROOLER TODAY? the Foreigner concert. Call Tom "Rock ENJOY X·MAS. JERSEY, AND llRCI Roll Droutllard at 1073 II you can BABS..~STELLA help Rufus Katser·Good luck In, b·ball tru. UCLA-TNE-8EST TEMII MO...Y CAN season. We love you & are behtnd you. BUY Vrrrroooooom Dad, Mom. J•m & Mary.  

II\ I I>!' I ihs!'rt'<'l' ;111d I b!' .lssucitll!'d Prl'SS 
Big boat sailors with racing expe~i~l~Ce (~n me~ium to Notre Dame Rowing Club will hold ames's 
large size boats are needed by the Notre Dame Sathng Club. Call Phtl 
team workout tomorrow at I 0 a.m. on the "ACC track. All men are Reynolds at 2:B·:H II for more details-The Observer expected to attend. If you have questions, call 1573 or 2121. -The Observer 
The NVA Office has announced that all interhall basket· ball players must have their insurance forms filed in the NVA Office First year sailors are encouraged to sail in the ( C-2 ACC) by 5 p.m. the day of their first game. All players must also 
Donahue Cup regatta which will be held on St. Joe's Lake Sunday remt·mher to bring their !D's to the first-round games. -The Ob· 
Dec. 6. The ND/SMC Sailing Club hosts this annual competition to 
serr•er 
determine the best rookie sailor of the year. The winner will be honored with a cookout. All are welcome to attend the races. For more information, call Brian ( 81 05) or Phil ( 2 33·34 I I ). -The Ob­
The ND-SMC ski team will hold a meeting tonight server from 4 to 6 p.m. in the Flanncr Commoner. All students going on the Winter Park trip to Colorado Jan. 2·1 0 must attend in order to co­ordinate travel plans. -The Observer BrotherJoseph Bruno's wrestling squad travels 
to Terre Haute for the Indiana State Invitational tomorrow. "The Indiana State Invitational will provide us with our stiffest challenge to date," says Bruno. The Irish open their 1980-81 slate next Wed­
The SMC basketball team plays in the Goshen nesday at the ACC against Ohio Northern and Olivet. -The Ob· Tournament this weekend. The Belles play Franklin College tonight server at 8 p.m., and face Tri-State University tomorrow at 2:30p.m. -The Observer 
See BRIEFS, page 14 

NATIONAL HOCKEY LEAGUE 
Top 16 team& qualify lor playoffa 
w L T GF GA Pta Edmonton 17 7 4 160 105 38 Quebec 15 10 4 134 122 34 
N.Y Islanders 14 6· 4 100 83 32 Boston 14 7 4 100 79 32 Minnesota 12 5 B 109 75 32 Montreal 12 6 7 119 68 31 Buffalo 12 6 7 91 77 31 

Ptnsburgh 13 8 4 97 89 30 Phtladelphta 14 10 92 100 29 Vancouver 12 10 4 99 85 28 Chtcago 9 8 8 117 110 26 ~· Wtnntpeg 10 11 98 115 24 
St Louts 9 13 4 96 110 22 NY Rangers 9 13 3 85 105 21 Detrotl 8 14 5 102 121 21 Los Angeles 10 10 0 104 128 20 Calgary 7 14 6 97 126 20 Hartford 5 11 8 80 99 18 Toronto 6 13 6 105 115 18 Washtngton 7 15 2 7 15 16 Colorado 4 17 5 67 133 13 
Yaatarday'a Raauna Boston 6. Buffalo 3 Detrott 4. Montreal3 Phtladelphta 6. Calgary I 
See BOARD, page 12 

..------~-~----------------­
The Observer-Sports Friday, December 4, 1981 -page 12 
.Joe T.. 
• • • Board 
the air and has thrown I5 TD passesDespite being selected by the
continuedfrompage 14 

for a respectable rating of 75.9.
Miami Dolphins in the fourth round of the 1971 draft, Theismann Theismann leads a diverse offense 
continuedfrom page 11 

that includes five players with 20 or
.,, 
conditions I'll nevn understand." realized that his chances for taking
FOOTBALL 
more receptions. Leading the pack, surprisingly' enough, is a runningAlthough Theisrnann enjoyed his over Bob Griese's job were slim, so 

he signed with Toronto Argonauts of the Canadian Football League. He back, speedyJoe Washington. Wash­
most productive outing in that game 
NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE 
against USC, ht: was already
NATIONAL CONFERENCE 
starred three seasons there, passing ington and ex-Cardinal Terry Met­
recognized as one of the better col­
East 

legiate quarterbacks, and came with­for over 6,000 yards and rushing for calf provide Theismann with two
Today'a Games w L T Pet. PF PA 
1,000 more. outstanding secondary receivers
\ Buffalo at Hartford Dallas 10 3 0 769 299 241 
in a stone's throw of snatching the
Winnipeg at Washington Philadelphia 9 4 0 .692 307 185 
Heisman Trophy away from Stan­In 1974, the Washington Redskins when sure-handed, Art Monk and 
Vancouver at Edmonton N.Y. G1ants 6 7 0 462 252 230 St. Louis 6 7 0 462 275 347 
obtained him from Miami. But with Ricky Thompson are covered. When Washington 5 8 0 .385 264 0 ford's Jim Plunketlt. If the decision the indomitable Billy Kilmer still Theismann can't find any of his
had been left up to Parseghian, the
Central 

throwing passes into old age, it was receivers open, he is not left totally
Detroit 7 6 0 5;38 318 264 
Heisman would have been awarded 
Minnesota 7 6 0 .538 303 304 
not until '78 when Theismann helpless. Averaging better than five
to a different player that year.

Tampa Bay 7 6 0 .538 248 204 
became the 'Skins number one quar­yards a carry, Theismann uses his
Green Bay 6 7 0 .462 255 309 
"Joe was one of the top quarter­
NBA 

terback. Since then, he's proved mobility to add an extra dimension
Ch1cago 3 10 0 .231 185 285 
backs that I've ever had the pleasure
Easter11 Conference 
WestAtlant.lc Division 

himself as one of the more durable to the Redskin attack. 
of coaching, and I've been blessed
x-San Franc1sco 10 3 0 769 287 224
w L Pet. GB Atlanta 7 6 0 .538 359 280 

and consistent quarterbacks in the Theismann's success in life is not
with some ofthe great ones," Parseg­
Ph1ladelph1a 14 2 .875 ­

Los Angeles 5 8 0 .385 268 295 . 
physically demanding and perilous limited to the football field. He is
Boston 14 3 .824 5 

hian says. "He possessed all the ele­
New Orleans 4 9 0 .308 180 292
New York 7 9 438 7 role ofan NFL signal-caller. currrently the proud owner of two

ments that make up a great
Washington 5 11 .313 9 AMERICAN CONFERENCE 

In 1979, he was the second hig­restaurants, one in Virginia, the
New Jersey 4 12 .250 10 

quarterback. Joe has a complete
EastCentral Division 

hest rated passer in the NFL The other in Maryland, called, ap­
grasp for the game and an innate
w L T Pet. PF PA
Milwaukee 10 6 .625 ­

propriately enough, Joe Theis­
Miam1 8 4 1 .654 288 224 
following season Theismann threw
ability for reading defenses and
Atlanta 8 6 .571 1 

N.Y. Jets 8 4 1 .654 290 244 mann's Restaurant.
Indiana 9 8 .529 1.5 

for 3,000 yards. This season, with
taking advantage of the opposition's
Buffalo 8 5 0 .615 258 223
Detroit 8 9 471 2.5 

New England 2 11 0 .154 277 304 
two games still remaining, he has al­Not too shabby for a sociologyweaknesses.
Chicago 6 12 333 5 

Baltimore 1 12 0 .77 209 437
Cleveland 4 13 235 6.5 

ready gained 2895 yards through major.
"You can teach some people the
Central Ctncmnati 10 3 0 .769 371 245 
X's and O's, but the inner qualitiies
Western Conference 

Piltsburgh 8 5 0 .615 299 229Midwest Division 
that make up an outstanding quar­
Houston 6 8 0 .429 254 307
w L Pet. GB 

terback are things that you just can't
Cleveland 5 9 0 .357 242 319
San Antonio 12 5 706 ­
West 

teach. These are qualities that Joe
Denver 8 7 .533 3 Denver 8 5 0 .615 258 228

Utah 8 8 .500 3.5 
possesses."

Kansas City 8 5 0 .615 313 251 
No.lBUNLV
Houston 6 12 .333 6.5 

San Diego 8 5 0 .615 404 329 
One of these inner qualities that
Kansas Cit1· 5 11 313 6.5 

Oakland 6 7 0 .462 227 270Dallas 2 15 .118 10 
every accomplished athlete must
Sealtle 4 9 0 .308 240 321Pacific Division 
x-Ciinched Divtston 
have is confidence. This is one at-
Portland 12 4 .750 ­
Title

Los Angeles 13 6 .684 .5 Yesterday's Result 
tribute that Theismann seems to car-
crushes Arizona
Phoemx 10 5 .667 1.5 

Houston 17, Cleveland 13 
ry around in ample supply.
Seattle 9 6 .600 2.5 

Sunday's Games 
"J h d fi

Golden State 9 7 .563 3 Detroit at Green Bay 
oe a great con 1dence," says
San Diego 5 11 .313 7 Los Angeles at N.Y. G1ants 

Parseghian. "He fully believed in 
TUCSON, Ariz. (AP) -No. 18 scorer wuh 16 points, went to the
Yesterday's Results Minnesota at Chicago 
himself and his objectives. No goalWashington114, New York 88 New England at Miami 
Nevada-Las Vegas, paced by forward bench with his fourth foul and Las 
Phoenix t37,Denver 109 New Orleans at St. LoUis 
was too high for him. He always 
Larry Anderson's 16 points, raced to Vegas immediately ran off seven
San Diego 113,Dallas 111 Ph1ladelph1a at Washington 
knew that whatever he set out to do Today'aGames San Franc1sco at Cincinnati 
h ld d . , ' a 69-49 victory over Arizona in a straight points.
Dallas at Balt1more e COU 0 It. 
non-conference basketball game last The Rebels, who also got 12
Philadelphia at Boston

Detr01tat Indiana Buffalo at San Diego 
Theismann finished out his il-Portland at San Antonio Atlanta at Tampa Bay 
night. points from center Sidney Green Seattle at ~:ansas C1ty Kansas City at Denver 
lustrious career at Notre Dame, set-
The Rebels, who led 38-33 at and 10 from guard Michael Burns
Los Angele·s at Denver N.Y. Jets at Seattle 
ting records for total passing 
halftime, saw their lead dwindle to increased their record to 3-0. ' 
Atlanta at Milwaukee Monday's Game 
yardage ( 4411 yards), touchdown 
Ch. tUt h P11tsburgh at Oakland 
one point in the opening minutes of
'=,..'c;.;a;::g~o~a.=a;;;.;___________________________...J passes (31), and completion per-Arizona also got 14 points from the second half. But sophomore 
~enior forward Greg Cook in losing
centage (57 percent). 

guard Jeff Collins, Arizona's leading Its season opener. 
: Applications available for 1982 : 
• AN TOSTAL Executive Staff • 
• • • • • UCLA 
• from Tues., Dec. 1 until Mon., Dec. 7 at the Secretary's • 
• Desk 2nd floor LaFortune • 
did for the first twelve minutes sion. outplayed his op­
continuedfrom page 16 Each man 
• Positions available include: • against Indiana, we can play with ponent at home last year, with anybody. Foster dominating the game at
:vice Chairman Comptroller Night events: 
That is not to say that the fifth spot "In the early going, we've got to Pauley Pavilion, and Paxson gaining
•Personel Special events Mobilization • 
is a weakness. To the contrary, 7-0 work to correct our mistakes," a measure ofrevenge in South Bend. :Secretary Booklet Publicity • freshman center Stuart Gray has Phelps continues. "Each game is an­"They're big," Phelps admits, "but eKeeper of the zoo Day Chairman (Thurs., Fri., Sat.) : forced his way into the starting other chance to get right what we we've got to stay with them on the lineup. The move sent Fields to the failed on during the previous game." boards. That's the only way we can
•Head Lion Tamers Bookstore Basketball (boys & girls) • 
• 
lnnertube Waterpolo e forward spot,Jackson to a guard slot, If Phelps and his players hope to hold our own against bigger teams. 

• 
Deadline for return of applications is 5:00pm • and talented Holton to the bench. come out of tomorr.ow's game alive, We've worked on rebounding all Forward Darren Daye, another they have got to undergo a dramatic week, and we're making some


: Mon. Dec. 7. Interviews will take place Dec. 7-10 : 
familiar name to Irish fans, has been improvement under the basket. Of­progress. How much progress 
relegated to a substitute's role as fensive rebounds will be crucial, and remains to be seen." well. the Irish cannot afford to grab just Last year, UCLA's success on the 
"They're deep, no question about seven of them, as they did on Tues­foul' line made the difference late in it," says Phelps. "This is going to be a day night. the game at the ACC. Tuesday, Notre tough one. In addition, the matchup ofguards Dame again failed to fare well from 
"We need to concentrate. 1 can't will play a key role. John Paxson and the line, and couldn't keep up with stress that enough. If we can keep up Foster have gone up against each the Hoosiers. That trend will have to our intensity for 4'Q..minutes like we other before, gaining a split deci-be reversed ifthe Irish are to win. "This is the greatest rivalry in col­lege basketball,' says Phclps. "It's 
•••o••••••••••••••••••••••••••• 
PINOCCHIO'S PIZZA PARLOR 
what the game is all about. Every time UCLA and Notre Dame play, it's
-Hours 

Fast Delivery Service a show. This week will be no excep­
tion. If we can get the rebounds we
Mon-Thurs 11 <Jm-12 pm 
277-4522 

need, and make our foul shots, this

will go down to the wire, just as so
Sun 4 pm-11 pm 

many games have in the past." IRISH ITEMS -Tim Andree and
Sign-ups for Christmas Vacation ' 
-Beer Specials 

Bill Varner are getting more healthy 
every day. Both report real progress
Sun, Dec. 6 at 7pm 
Every Nite 8:00-10:00 
since Tuesday's game ...UCLA leads
51.75 Pitcher 5.50 Mug 
the series with Notre Dame, 16­
LaFortune Little Theater 
1 I ...NBC reports that it will have a 
Buses will leave ll D 
microphone placed in the stands to
-HAPPY HOUR 
pick up the sound of students
Mon-Fri 4 pm-6 pm

Thurs., Dec~17_ ~t 1 pm and 
shaking keys at UCLA Fri-Sat 8 pm-1 :2 am 
players ...Dick Enberg and AI
Sat., Dec 19 at 11 am 
4 ft wide screen TV 

McGuire will handle the announc­
E 

ing chores for the 2 p.m.
lluses will return Mon., Jan 11 at 1 pm 
s 

game ...Freshman Gray led Bruin
PLEASE-one coupon per pizza N entnlon• 
rebounders with 18 after two games,
tt; $45.00 round trip 

while Cecil Rucker is Notre Dame's big man underneath, grabbing 1 5 
-----------~------------~his coupon good 1 This coupon good I ~.;~11r"" 
for one I for one I ~.P_.._o""' ~
$29.00 cne way 
juniper 
thus far, all against St. Joe'~ ...
LARGE PIZZA I MEDIUM PIZZA I,c{l ~ 
UCLA's other loss ofthe season was a
Questions? 

$1.00 OFF I $.75 OFF I 
79-75 decision to Brigham Young.
Call Bria.n Eichenlaub at 1881 
!.!~~~!::~I.:-.!.!l._~!!~!.l!.:-1~:~1,,.1._____w____• 





---------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
The Observer --Sports Friday, December 4, 198I --page 13 · 
Frazier-Cun1n1ings 'fight' ends in draw 

CHICAGO ( AP)-joe Frazier, his age and a roll around his middle showing, returned to the ring for the first time in almost five-and-a-half years last night and battled to a I 0­round draw with Floyd "Jumbo" Cummings. 
Referee Nate Morgan scored it 46­45 for the 30-year-old Cummings, who turned ·pro in 1979 after servng 12 years in prison. 8utjudge Harold Maravitz scored it 47-47 and judge Collins Brown saw it 46-46, making the decison a draw. 
There were no knockdowns, but Frazier almost was staggered in the third round and nearly hit the deck in the eighth. 
"Smokin' joe," the former heavyweight champion who will be 38 on January 12, landed his famed left hook on several o<'casions, but more often he missed. 
Earlier in the day, Frazier had told 39-ycar-old Muhammad Ali, who had called him from Nassau, The Bahamas, where ht· will tight Dec. 
I I. that ''I'm not old." 
lie might not be an old man, but he was an old tighter on this night bd(lrc a crowd of about 6, 500 that cht·ercd him on at the International Ampithcatrt·. 
Frazier, who wdghcd 229 pounds -live-and-a-half pounds more than Cummings -was the harder hitter, hut Cummings landed many more punches and was more ctl'ective to the body. 
In tht· third round, Cummings sent Frazkr back on his heels with a one-two to tht· jaw. 
Early in the fourth, Frazier turn<:d 
away from Cummings, who was bent 
over from a low hlow. After a few 
st·conds hesitation, referee Morgan 
motioned for action to resume. 
"He can't tight, this old guy," Cummings' handlers shouted as Jumbo forced Frazkr hack with st·veral head and body shots. 
• • .Women 
n mlinuedfrom pagt• 16 
pcct not to get blown out." 
LICI A will check in ..with a 2-I mark ahn sulli:ring a 9 1-69 sethack 10 l{utgns last night. Tht· Bruins, ranknl dghth nationally. opnlt'd thdr 'cason with wins over Brigham Young (H.'>--_>,) and l'cppcrdinc (93­"tl). 
The Brums art· led b\ a trio of sophomon: Ali-Amt·ril"as, including center 'lkci ThollliNln ( 14.5 ppg. ), turward .lack it· Jovnt·r (9.2 p[1g.) and guard .\1ary llagarty ( -.5 rrg. ). 
"\X l' will have the advantage uf ht'ing ahlc to sec thnn play," DiS­tanislao said. "We tapnl tht'ir game on TV tonight, so if wt· <:an ext-cute our game plan, we should haVI: a good show." 
IRISH ITEMS -Last night's win was tht· I 0 I st of Mary DiStanislao's t·oaching career. Win No. I00 came in a season-ending tournament last year in Anchoragt·, Ak. ... l'rcshman Laura Dougherty put on the best shooting performance last night, connecting on +of-5 from the floor, and 1-of I from the charity stripe ... Speaking offree throws, that was the one area that Notre Dame fared poorly in against the Pumas. The Irish hit only 6-ot: 14. That's 4 3 per­cent . . . Shari Matvey's nine rebounds moved her a step closer to yet another Irish record. The junior native of Youngstown, Ohio needs only 40 more to eclipse jane Politiski's mark for most caroms col­lected in a career . . . A note to Sports Writer Mark Hannukscla: Mis­sy Conboy's eyes arc blue. (That's al­right, they're still captivating.) 
In the tlfth round, Frazier brought the crowd to its feet when he landed a hig left hook to Cummings' head. Cummings mugged, but then Frazier landed two more hooks and a good right to the jaw that hurt Cummings. 
In the eighth round it looked as though the tight might end in a defeat for Frazier, whose previous 
<-.. ' 1 
bout was a tlve-round knockout loss to George Foreman june 15, 1976. With Frazier along the ropes, Cum­mings landed a right to the jaw and followed with several head shots. Frazier's knees bent and he appeared drau• last night in Chicago. It was Frazier's first 
about to fall, but was able to grah fight in 5 I /2 years. (AP Photo) Cummings. 
················································································~······················································••' 

iller times=::~~ ute· 
Those co1Jege 
kids thinl< 
the~'re so
Smart:o, 

1 l 



c-1981 Beer Brewed by Miller Brewing Co., Milwaukee. Wis. 
., 
·······················································································································~················ 
..-------~------------~~---------­

>­
_
.. 
..... 
--~ 
I lit? t:<lrn Jll!§ rn lll§tft?l Jllf?§t?llt§ 
flit? (IJJI§trnel§ ~ClZZ 


Specia] HoJiday Events This Week 
'0-"1 Wed., Dec. 8, 3 p.m. 
Chef Ray Bertschy demonstrates 
how .to make Christmas cookies and 
edible decorations-Recipes will be 
given. Class is free, but limited to 15. 
Sign up now. 

•·,Wed.,Dec.8, 6:30p.m. 
Niles High School students sing Christmas carols on Grand Hall Steps . 
.._... Thurs., Dec 10 thru Dec. 24 
Wassail Bowl in the Grand Hall. Join us in a toast to a happy and heathy holiday season. Free to the public. 
'0-"1 Sat., Dec. 12, 10 a.m.­1 p.m. 
Muscular Dystrophy Charity Tour and Awards Presentation. S2 a tick­et. Demonstrations in various forms. 
Be sure to look for this ad announcing our weekly events of the season. 
620 W. Washington, South Bend, 234-9077 Reservations available. 
Someold-fashioned reasons to spend the holidays at our house. 
. 
. 

.._...Marvel at old-fashioned deco­rations from our special house decorat­ing contest. 
..,.,See a spectacular gingerbread house created by Chef Ray. 
-..~Help us make this Christmas spe­cial for everyone by contributing at Tip-
c CnntJm•ntal Kt'~luurant Syslt•ms, 1!-lHI 
pecanoe Place to the Marines' Toys for Tots program. 
•···See our fabulous Christmas tree in the Grand Hall beautifully decorated by community groups. 
So start a new tradition for your family this season. Come home to Tippe­canoe Place for the holidays. 
At Notre Dame, it often appeared as if Theismann and the Fighting Irish could play successfully with just one receiver, as Tom Gatewood became a one-man pass catching corps. During the '69 and '70 seasons, Gatewood accounted for al­most half of Notre Dame's total pas­sing yardage, including unprecedented marks of 77 recep­tions for 1123 yards in 1970. 
It was during this same season that Theismann earned his well­deserved reputation as one of the greatest of all Notre Dame quarter­backs. He threw for over 2400 yards and 16 touchdowns to lead the Irish to a 10-1 record and a number two ranking in the AP's final football poll. 
Theismann performed brilliantly in every contest that year, but no one will ever match his courageous performance against USC. In that memorable game, he threw for over 520 yards under conditions which were considered just a little less than favorable. Syndicated sports writer Jim Murray wrote that the field was "playable only by canoe... luckily, no one drowned." 
Battling from behind for most of the game, Theismann attempted to keep his team above water, but the Irish finally succumbed to the determined Trojans (who possessed an unfair advantage since most of them were majoring in swimming at the time), 38-28. Still, very few quar­terbacks have put on such a show since. 
Former Irish head coach Ara Par­seghian recalls that game with mixed emotions. The loss probably cost Notre Dame a National Cham­pionsip but Theismann's incredible show still brings a smile to his face. 
"Joe's performance that day is without a doubt the most un­believable quarterbacking perfor­mance I've ever seen," relates the man who witnessed quite a few ex­traordinary achievements during his 11 seasons as Notre Dame's head coach. "It was the greatest singular performance of any football player, college or pro, that I've witnessed. And I don't see how it could ever be equalled again. 
-"The rain was coming down so hard that it was cascading down the stadium steps like a waterfall. How Joe threw for 526 yards under those 
SeeJOE T, page 12 

------------~-----­
The Observer.--_,~ ~~-c.• 
Friday, December 4, 1981 -page 15
Weekend 
Molar~ty Michael Molinelli 

-mo B4I> rr LDOK5 L-11'$ 1r 

WAS PE:C.oRAIEP 'l>Y 

SALVAPOR PAL/ /Jij/LE:' 1/f' 
Doonesbury 
;X~~ 
r;--~~--------~ 
/ :'~,<::.
f "'<"" #) IA/HA1 AR£ Ya' 6tT-\ IAI&LL. fA/£ SHOIJW FIND OUT 
""" GOOD fOR HIM , ' T'i/6 FROM CON6R£55 7VOAY HE 11/c:NT UP 7D TUE 
I THAT T~JXEs GUT5. 
, ABOUT 5TDCKMAN? HAS \ HIU 7VDAY 7l} PR£5EJ.IT 
-I'M SIJR£ TH& COM· ~ HIS Ci?EP18/LITY BEEN \' OUR LATEST 8Ur::t3eT 
~ MITT/313 WIU.. R£35PfCT 
. t IRIUTRJEVABLY COMPiliJ-CJeFICIT F113UR£5 
,. HIM FOR IT ' I M/5f[)? ' 

\ 
• ··---=--"-"-~Tl:!~·~~lzt.-..~ . ''??' ~I • r" T7'
')·t ' . I ~"...:,
r~.-·~·.~·-1-{J.
"'-~' , , . : r ·~.,-->:
'1 , . -i I ' ;~\.~~ . I .. _'-;.:.~ 
~>.---~:~::-~ 
:.. !4-··~· ....:-·<::~ 
Simon Jeb Cashin 



•8 p.m. -Dance Theatre, ND/SMC Dance 

Theatre Winter Concert, O'Laughlin Auditorium, Saint Mary's College Saturday, Dec. 5 
(,OT .' I!IIIH\T 


•8 p.m. -LSAT Test, Engineering Auditorium 
•9 
· 11 a.m.-Logan Center, Christmas Rec, The last one ofthe semester, 

•2 
p.m. -Basketball, ND Men vs. UCLA, ACC, NBC-TV 

•7, 
9, II p.m. -Film, "Strangers on a Train", Engineering Auditorium, Sponsored by Film Club ofND, 51 admission 

•7, 
9 p.m. -Film, "The Way We Were", Carroll Hall, Saint Mary's College, Sponsored by SAPB, S I admission 

•7 
p.m. -Swimming, ND Men vs. Ferris State, 


ACROSS 28 Bombast 49 Scarlett 22 Before act 1 Broom 30 -O'Shanter and Ilk or play 6 Exec's 33 Inter-56 Lioness of 25 Saguaros, 
wheels 34 Dint "Born Free" perhaps
The Daily Crossword 
10 Turkish 35 Hubbub 57 Carol 26 Unalaska 
general 36 Jose 58 IJrchin native 14 Man-! Napoleon 60 Exocarp 27 Origins of 15 Astride Duarte, e.g. 61 Mind specie 16 Way out 40 Wordof 62 Music piece 28 Leonine 17 Ancient disapproval 63 Royalist protests 
doctor 41 Form of 64 Bahrain 29 Host 18 The Amazon corundum VIP 30 Unspoken begins here 42 Pinochle 65 Enchase 31 City near 
19 Democritean underling again Tarsus concept 43 TGIFword 32 French 20 Aurora 44 Fortas DOWN painter 
borealis and Beame Porte· 34 Be swift 23 Weather 45 Nihil-monnaie 37 Cometo 
word 47 "-on 2 Verve 38 Environ· 24 Comp. pt. parle..." 3 Minuteman's ment 25 Serai 48 Baseball home 39 Winterize 
sights name 4 Suffer 45 Grand­siriasis OpryThursday's Solution 5 Psychic 46 Dancer Ray 6 Carnation's 47 Lombards OlOE.ASCAP,SAME 
locale settled lAIR.REAMS ALAD 
7 Anatomical here A M E R I C A N 8 I T T E R N 
passage 48 Fitter 8 Matutinal 49 Mo. A 
beginning 50 Fridge 9 Wealth Item 

A BIUilll 
10 Apothegm 51 Consumer 11 Theodoric 52 Meander 
was one 53 Saint 12 Ululate Philip­1a Culverin 54 Casso­
andfusll waries' kin 
GREE~WOODPiCKER 
21 Part of 55 Faction ©1981 by Chicago Tribune-N.Y. News Synd. Inc. 
A G E R T U N E R R I T A 
HRH,some­59 Weapon for All Rights Reserved 
E E L S 
S T E R E U N A l 
12/5/81 
times a retiarius 
1215/81 

-

Campus 
Friday, Dec. 4 
•12:
15 p.m. -Lecture, "Paradise Lost and Catul­lus' Carmina LXIV", Lorenzo Minnelli, graduate student, Memorial Library Lounge, Sponsored by Graduate Student Advisory Committee, All are welcome 

•12:30 
p.m.-Forum. "Is The TCE A Good Idea?", Profs. Nancy Carter, George Howard and Jerry Jones, Memorial Library Auditorium 

•4 
· 5 p.m. -Spanish Club Tertulia, South alcove on main floor, LaFortune, Venga para hablar con nosotros y practicar el arte de conversar! 

•4:30 
p.m. -Lecture, "Homomorphisms of Groups with Communitive Quotents", B. Weis­feiler, 226 Computer Center Math Building, Sponsored by Kenna Lecture Series 

•7 
p.m. -Swimming, ND Men's Invitational Relays, Rockne Pool 

•7, 
9 p.m. -Film, "The Way We Were", Carroll Hall, Saint Mary's College, Sponsored by SAPB, S 1 admisssion 

•7:30 
p.m. -Logan Center, Christmas wrapping for volunteers 

•7:30 
p.m. -Japanese Film,"No Regrets For Our Youth", Memorial Library Auditorium, Sponsored by Educational Media 

•7:30 
p.m. -Slide I Lecture, "Our Lady of Guadalupe", Robert Feeney, Moreau Seminary Auditorium, Sponsored by Lourdes Confraternity 

•7:30 
p.m. -Hockey, ND vs. Miami (Ohio), ACC 


Rockne Pool 

•7:30 
p.m.-Hockey, NDvs. Miami(Ohio),ACC 

•8 
p.m. -Dance Theatre, ND/SMC Dance Theatre Winter Concert, O'Laughlin Auditorium, Saint Mary's College 

Sunday, Dec. 6 

•8 
a.m. -Exhibit, Northern Indiana Gun Club, ACC Concourse 

•1 
p.m. -Meeting, International ND Host Family Association, Memorial Library Auditorium 

•2:30 
p.m. -Dance Theatre, ND/SMC Dance Theatre Winter Concert, O'Laughlin Auditorium, Saint Mary's College 

•8:15 
p.m. -Concert, "Messiah", ND Chorale and Orchestra, Sacred Heart Church 


Television Tonight 
9:00p.m.  16  McLain's law  
22  Dallas  
28  Darkroom  
34  Enlerprise  
46  Today With lester Sumrall  
9:30p.m.  34  The Great Radio Comedians  
!O:OOp.m.  16  It's Only Human  
22  Dallas  
28  Strike Force  
34  Firing line  
46  Jimmy Swaggan Weekly  


28th meeting 

UCLA battle poses questions 

elsewhere these days. By the same "It just doesn't bother me.'' says
By SKIP DESJARDIN 

token, all of UCLA's players have Farmer. ''I'm family here. I played for
AssociateSports Editor 

returned. Coach Wooden, and learned a great Digger Phelps is still at Notre deal from him. Then I watched each
The questions arc: roaring through Dame, but Larry Brown has departed of the men that came after him, and I
the air like a stiff Santa Ana wind. Have the Bruins become preoc­01'«-'estwood for the glamour and learned something from each of prestige of New jersey and the NBA. them, as well. I'm ready for this job."
cupied with the prospects of their hard work being negated by NCAA 
~ The latest in a line of would-be His team seems to be ready for the successors to john Wooden is Larry job at hand. too. Before the shadow
probation? Is the Notre Dame-UCLA Farmer, no stranger to the ACC. He of the NCAA's investigation was cast
rivalry in jeopardy when the proba­tion becomes areality? Can the Irish 
·was a forward on three straight na­upon them, the Bruins were one of tional championship teams, compil­the prime contenders for the nation­
rebound from Tuesday's loss at In­diana? Can the Irish rebound? ing an 89-l record as a player, an al championship. Now, they have to UCLA's shocking 57-54 loss to NCAA record. He returned to Pauley wait to see if they'll even be given a Rutgers last night (see related story) Pavilion as an assitant coach, first to shot at it. raises serious questions as to this Gene Bartow, then to Gary Cunnin­The talent is unquestionable. gham, and finally to Brown. Guard Rod Foster is among the best
team's ability to put aside the "Larry's going to be a great head in the country at his position, as is
problems that have befallen the school's athletic department, and 
coach," says Phelps. "He knows the forward Mike Sanders. With Ralph UCLA system inside and out, and Jackson in th backcourt, and Kenny
the basketball program in particular. won't try to live up to the john Fields up front, four oflast year's five
The Irish and the Bruins will face Wooden legend." starters for the Bruins remain con­
off again tomorrow for the 28th time, and Notre Dame has a score to 
That legend has plagued each of stant. settle. See UCLA, page 12
the three previous coaches, and has The score that is sticking like a taken a re!;.:·a::.:l:..:t~o~ll:;:...-~------~ 
,~--­

bone in the throats ofIrish players is 1 
I

51-50. That was the final when last the Bruins visited the ACC. Free throws by guard Michael Holton and forward Mike Sanders spelled the difference in that one, and gave UCLA a sweep of the season series. 
Freshman Ruth Kaiser (25) snares a rebound from two St. 
A lot has happened since 
joseph's pla_}er's in last night's 78-44 Irish win. Kaiser scored 22 
February, however. Six Irish letter­
points to lead ND. (photo by Cheryl Ertelt) 
men are playing their basketball 
In opener 

UCLA loses again, this time to Rutgers 
EAST RUTHERFORD, N.J. (AP) tied the game and Black followed -Layups by Rich Brunson and with a layup at 1:09 to provide Kevin Black in the final two Rutgers with a 54-52 lead. Rut-minutes helped Rutgers register gers freshman Brian Ellerbee hit a 57-54 upset victory over one of two foul shots, but UCLA's eighth-ranked UCLA last night Michael Holton followed with 
Kaiser, Matvey pace Lady Irish lt;:~!~~:1~EEI,r~:~~~·,:-; E:~~~~:~~:~z::i:"::'";s'~:
I Rutgers, down 33-21, opened Ellerbee's driving layup as the By MARK HANNUKSELA der six and a half minutes to play. their physical attributes with some ; the second half by outscoring clock ran out cemented the vic-Sports Writer When the Pumas scored again al-intelligence. We have to have full UCLA 16-2. Mike Sanders, who tory.
I 

most four minutes later, the confidence for 40 minutes, some-finished with 18 points, chipped Freshman Ruth Kaiser, fresh out of outcome was well in hand. thing we lacked tonight, if we ex-·~' in six of the Bruins' next eight The victory boosted Rutgers' Bates hit a short jumper from the points to regain the lead, 42-41. record to 2-l and dropped UCLA
the cumbersome cast that has been 

1 h f h See WOMEN, page 13 With l :28 remaining, Brunson to 1-2.
part of her right arm for the last few ane to start t e run o Iris points. ·--· _____ L ...... _____.._______ 
weeks, scored 16 first-half points on Laura Dougherty, a freshman from -~---· 8-for-12 shooting, and Shari Matvey Hillsdale, N.J., followed with a five-Weekend hocke"-' scored 16 points to lead a second­foot bank shot from the left side. J half surge that carried Notre Dame to a 78-44 win over St. joseph's 
~~:~~rp~:;~:~~:e::~~iv~nr:b~h~~~: 1Ce,y'S plary host to Mz·am·z· 
(Rensselaer) in last night's women's Matvey hit a short jumper from the 1 ~ / • basketball season-opener at the left baseline, Bates connected on an­ACC. other rebound goal, and Matvey By MICHAEL OLENIK Miami seems to be ready to show scorer Bill Rothstein, who took a 
Kaiser, who had worn the cast for took a pretty feed from captain Mis­Sports Writer that they can play winning hockey heavy hit to his thigh in last Friday's two wec~ks after tearing ligaments in sy Conboy and hit a short jumper when it counts. They are 10-4 this contest and was forced to watch the her thumb, celebrated yesterday af­from the lane to hammer the final Questions concerning the perfor­year overall. As far as Cady is con­rest of the series from the stands. ternoon's removal of the cast by nail in the Pumas' coffin. mance of the Notre Dame hockey cerned, that is a distinct possibility if The scoring punch will have to be finishing with a game-high 22 points. "I was really happy with the play team have surfaced quite often as of his team can begin to display inten­picked up by the newly-formed line 
Playing with the thumb heavily of Shari tonight," said DiStanislao, late, and more often than not they sity, another quality somewhat lack­ofJeff Logan, Kirt Bjork and jeffPer­taped, Kaiser also dished out six as-who is in her second season as Notre have been met with the same type of ing in the Irish. ry -all proven scores for Irish this sists. Dame's head coach. "Her playiug answers. It seems that "We are struggling to sustain season. 
Matvt:y finished with 18 points with confidence will make all the 'fundamentals' are the quality most intensity, " states the Redskin men­Dave Poulin will center for fresh­and nine rebounds for Notre Dame, difference in the world. She's a good lacking in the play of Lefty Smith's tor. "Very few teams in the CCHA man Tim Reilly and Dave Lucia, a which exploded for 47 second-half athlete, and she can be a consistent team, at least according to the 13-have been able to sweep this year. Madison, Wis. native who has skated points, most of them coming from scorer for us. She's been concentrat­yearcoach. Mental toughness !s lacking in the and checked well as oflate. the floor, where the Irish shot .6 I 8 ing on her defense, ·and she showed "Once again, we returned to league, and we need to work on "Hopefully, the shake-up will do for the period. great improvement in that area doing things that have cost us vic­developing this." some good, but I have the feeling 
Carrie Bates, a freshman from tonight." tories in the past," related Smith ear­It would be difficult to question that the problem is more fundamen­Kansas City, Mo., scored 15 points in Statistically, Notre Dame was lier this week. "Even when we went the intensity of the Redskin tal than that," admits Smith. "We've the second stanza, and finished with dominant in every catagory. The ahead 2-0 on Saturday night (the firepower thus far however, as four just got to get better at the basics." 
17. Irish outshot St. joe's 36-l 7 from the Irish were later subdued 6-2 ), we players have already racked up 24 Once again, the task of stopping Still another of the talented quin­floor, outrebounded them 39-25, weren't executing the fundamen­points or more. Junior captain Steve the opposition's scoring threat will 
tet of players second-year Coach and committed 1 1 fewer turnovers. tals. We weren't jpassing crisply, we Morris is leading the team with 13 be left to Dave Laurion and the Irish Mary DiStanislao brought in last "Coach emphasized rebounding were leaving the slot unguarded, goals and 16 assists in only 14 games, blueline corps led by seniors john spring, Indianapolis native Mary tonight," Kaiser said. and we weren't shooting well. It's while junior defenseman Kevin Schmidt and jim Brown. Smith will Beth Schueth, finished as the game's "Yeah," Schueth echoed, "they hard to be pleased when you keep Beaton has chipped in 21 assists in be looking for both to show the ag­leading rebounder by hauling in 11 stressed blocking out underneath." seeing the same mistakes over and that stretch. gressiveness needed on both offense in just 24 minutes ofaction. Kaiser and Schueth also agreed on over again." Dave Wheeldon and Dave and defense for the Irish to play most 
Schueth is ju~t starting to recover another thing -they were both Such mistakes will almost always McClintock are also forces to be effectively as a team.
... 
from a bout with vertigo which tired. haunt a team, and the Redskins of reckoned with, as each has regis­The scene will be similar to that of caused her to miss much of this "I've never played that much con­Miami will do their best to make the tered 24 points to make the Redskin the past two weekends for the Irish, week's practice tinuously," said Kaiser, a native of Irish pay when they visit the ACC attack one of the most potent in the as they search to establish a feeling "It wasn't artistic," DiStanislao Tempe, Ariz. "In high school, we had this weekend in the first meeting league. ofcontinuity while they still can en­said afterward, "but then you can't four quarters, and we only played a ever between the two teams. Defense isn't exactly a weak suit joy some comforts of home. It will expect it to be. You can't expect to total of 32 minutes. This was a lot." Coach Steve Cady's squad has on­for Miami either, a fact substansiated be interesting to see if they can se·e evc:rything done right the first Next up for the Irish is a 10:30 ly played half the· number of league by a team goals against average of indeed take advantage of the situa­time om. a.m. date with the-Bruins of UCLA games as the 4-7-1 Irish, and have just 3.07. Dan Kodatsky has stood tion and show that they can play in 
"It wasn't a good first half," she tomorrow. Consistently ranked run off three consecutive series tallest in the nets for the Redskins their new league. said, "but the sc:cond half, we were among the Top 20 in the pre-season splits in that period. With a 3-3-0 with a 2.95 gaa. -one ofthe best in IRISH ITEMS -Face-off for both clearly dominant." That they polls, the Lady Bruins will pose a record, the Redskins stand right in the league. His 6-2-0 record should F .riday and Saturday is set for 7:30 were, outscoring the Pumas by 20 special problem for DiStanislao's the middle of the league dogfight, provide the Irish with a suitable tar­and tickets are available at the ACC. points, including 13 in a row during troups. despite playing even hockey with get for breaking out of the scoring The Irish will travel to Northern one three-minute stretch. "They have a lot of quick players CCHA powers Northern Michigan slump that plagued them last week Michigan for Thursday and Friday 
Cindy Figel canned a 12-foot jum­and drivers," says Mary D. "Their and Ferris State earlier in the year. against Ferris State. dates with the first place Wildcats
1 per from straightaway to cut the strength is in individual talent and Coming off a sweep ofnon-leagu~ The Irish offense meanwhile, will next week before breaking for ex­
Irish lead to 19, 59-40, with just un-we're going to have to counteract opponent Chicago-Circle last week, probably be missing second-leading ams and the holidays. ·---'------... ·-·-----··-.-----------­
.......~:;r ' ~·~.· ~""!" ......~ ... :-.:: 




