-----------~-------~----~-------­
• Cheerleaders -page 4 

VOL XV, NO. 126 MONDAY, APRIL 13, 1981
an independent student newspape-r serving notre dame and saint mary's 
Hiler discusses policy, problems 
liditor's note: Rep. john/Iller ( R· Inti.) begun his first term as Third District representcltive in january, succeedhll( Mujori~y Whip john llrmlemas. 1/e u•as intert•iewed in lf!ashingtml recent~y by Ohsnver .ltmwging Etlttor TomjcKkman. 

Q: Whtlt do you hold hopes for in this first tenn? Do you hope to ac­complish much tlS tlfreshman? 
A: Personal goals? Oh, a tremcn· dous amount I havt· c:ssentially threc: goals, three areas that I think a frt·shman congrc:ssman can he ef. kctivt· in. Ont· is to gain thc: n·spcct of my colkaguc:s as somt·one who knows what hc:'s talking about when ht· talks. It's no hig thing to bc: ekctcd, therc:'s nothing distinguish­ing then·. The only way that you can gain somt· respc:ct is through com­mittel' work, so I've spt:nt a lot of time prt•paring for hearings, asked qut•stions, hopd"ully intelligent questions, and only askt·d quc:stions that pc:rtainc:d -not to talk just to hc: talking. 
The second arc:a is in dealing with tht· lkagan economil· plan. As someone who has a hat·kground in supply-side economics, and who is a full-scak believer in the Reagan economic plan, l'vc: trkd to speak with my freshman colkagucs and othc:r members ahout the desirability of thc: plan and the need for supporting it I00 percent. There arc: a few of us within the freshman class that are doing that, and there are some other things that wc:'re in· volvcd in that involve trying to get thc: whok thing pa~sc:d through thc: Congrc:ss, particularly on the tax sidc:. 
Thc: third area has to do with gc:t­ting a smooth-running office here. We get about 100 letters a day, and that's about 500 a week, and we've answcrc:d 2300 kttt·rs so far. Our mail right now is running about as high as it runs for somc:onc who's been in Congress tc:n years, which is pretty phenomenal. Our mail right now is running almost twice as high as any other freshman congressman that wl"rc: aware of, and that's put­
ting dc:mands on our internal office 
See Q&A, page 4 
By SUSAN KING 
Bourd ofGovernance 
The Saint Mary's Board of Gover~ nancc: formt·d a parietal Ad-hoc committee at a meeting last night in Rc:gina Hall. 
Student Body Prc:sident Eileen 
PACE report 
O,Meara reviews ND 
By TOM KOEGEL 
St•nlor StaffReporter 
Study groups across the campus are discussing the t'utllre ofNotre Dame in tht· 1980's in an c:ffort to gather Information for University Provost Timothy O'Meara's rt·port to Prcsidc:nt Hcsburgh on Prioritks and Com­mitments for Excdlcncc (PACE). 
"Our projc:ct has two aspects, one practical and one philosophical, O'Mt:ara said. "The practical quc:stion is how, today, do we best allocate our rt•sources. Prior to dctt•rmining that, wc: must reassess what is the mission ofour llnivc:rsity as a Catholic University, and as a great Catholic llnivt·rsity. 
At first glance, thc: undntaking looks much like the Curriculum Rt·vi----------------­
sion 
Committc:c: MQNDAY···-·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·;·;·;·.
(CRC) of thc: late .·.·.·.·.·.·.··············-· .. · 
:~~::::. a~~~~m~:::>:::::::::::::=:F 0CUS 
whose proposals kdiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii to swcc:ping changes in thc: Univc:rsity. "PACE, O'Meara notes, "has a much broader perspective than thc: Curriculum Rc:vision Committee. Thc: curriculum is only one of the many topics we may consider. The seventeen study groups are divided into various area~ of concern to tht· Notre Dame community, ran· ging from traditional groupings of academic study such as the Humanities, Fine Arts, Engineering and Science, to other areas such as Studc:nt Affairs, the Library, Ath­let,cs and Alumni. '(he divisions of the study groups arc not intc:ndcd to discover thc: needs of isolated scgmc:nts of the Unvcr­sity. Acct?rding to O'Meara, they arc divided as a matter of "logistical convenience... in order to establish con· tact with all partil's in the University. We do not want thc:n to talk about thdr own areas, but instt·ad to think about campus-wide priorities. In ordc:r to assurc: the discussion of university wide concc:rns, two ovcrarching committees will advise O'Meara. The two committees, one a standing Provost's Advisory Committee and the other a newly created 
committc:c offaculty, wc:rc: selected from a wide variety 
ofdisciplines. 
Not only arc membc:rs of thc: main committees 
varied, but membc:rs of the individual~~ udy groups dis­
play trc:mc:ndous dlvc:rsity as well. Such diversity is 
shown in such placements as Radiation Laboratory 
Dirc:ctor Robert Schuler on the Soda! Sciences group. 
Mc:mbc:rs of the two main committcc:s, together with 
others from concerned disciplines, including several 
students, compose the seventeen groups. 
"In choosing the mc:mbers, I looked for people 
rc:cc:ptive to and interested in all points of view on thc: 
university, O'Meara said. "I wanted them to be capable 
of changing their minds on any issuc: c:xccpt one: that 
Notre Dame is destined to be the great Catholic Univer­
sity. 
Student representatives include Patty Hackett and 
formc:r SBP Paul Riehle, and current SBP and SBVP Don 
Murday and Tara Kenney, serving on the two Student 
Affairs groups. (The groups will split duties, one speak· 
ing to Student Government, and the other to rectors.) 
Othc:r students include Pat Borchers and Rosemary 
Canlno on the Student Affairs and the Academic group. 
"By June wc: will have all the input from the Univc:r­
sity, and we will have to put in ordt•r what they havc: 
found, O'Meara said. "The two committees will set 
priorities and then we will have to appoint a final group 
to analyze the possibilities for implementing the 
proposals. 
O'Meara declared that he docs not have any advance 
idc:a ofwhat the committees' proposals may be. "I don't 
want to go into this study with any bias that might atfc:ct 
its operation or outcome. 
O'Meara emphasized that thc: multi-tiered arrange­mt·nt of committees and study groups is intended only to advise him on a report that he eventually must write. O'Mc:ara will note in his report any major differences bc:twcen his views and those ofthe committees, but he ,.hopes that they will"see eye to eyc: on the futurc: ofthc 
University. 
0'Meara also stated that it was too early to detcrminc: 
how any of the proposals would bc: implemented ifap· 
provc:d, or ifthey would be presentc:d to the Trustees of 
thc: University. 

Looks at parietals 
SMC Board sets ad hoc committee 
Murphy proposed "an Ad-hoc com­mittee that would do a sdf-study t;n college policy to parietals" and the board unanimously voted in favor. Mary Leavitt, SAPB commissioner, and Kathlcc:n Engler, Off-campus prcsidc:nt, volunteered to co-chair the committe. 
The board stressc:d that the com­mittc:c's main objective is to or­ganize and present a platform concerning thc: changing of parktal regulations to the Administration. Board mc:mbers plan to write to other all-womc:n's n>llegc:s in ordt•r to learn their parietal policies. This information will then be compared to Saint Mary's parietal ruks as one board mcmbc:r suggested, "to sec if our rules arc too archaic." 
The committee also plans to do more research into past parietal rules and lc:arn why parietal hours on Sunday have changed from the orginall2:00p.m.~ !O:OOp.m. to the prcsc:nt I:00 p.m. · 6:00 p.m. times. Thc: hoard also suggt·stc:d making one of the dorms parietal-free, similiar to Augusta llall, which houses about 60 sl..'niors, all twc:nty~ onc: or ovt·r. 
One board memhc:r spt-culated that the elimination of tht· strict parktal ruks would discontinuc: "tht· largc: number of pt·ople that transft·r to Notre Danu·." One probkm of eliminating parietals is thc: parental reaction "because somc: peoplt· sc:nd their kids ht•rc: just for parietals," said Leavitt. Other dif­ficulties would be sc:curity of the dorms; the increase in cost; and final approval of the Administration, thc: Board of Rc:gcnts, and the lloly Cross sisters. 
In otht·r business, thl' board drs-
See SMC, page 3 
Dr. Stryker explains socialpsychology 
By PAUL MCGINN 
News Staff 
Dr. S~cldon Strykt:r, Professor of Social ~sychology at Indiana Univer­sity, s~>ke on '1Developmcnts in So­cial lrltcraction," to a noonttme audicn,cc and later on "Resc:arch ldenti~ics: Multiple Pc:rsonalitics" Friday-at Hayes-Healy. 
Dur:ing his first engagement, Stryker commented that though some!sociologists have announced the death of symbolic interaction as a live, viable, developing set of ideas," he feels that such sociologists as these arc: absolutely wrong. Stryker asserted that symbolic inter­action plays an integral role in such disciplines as sociology and psycho­logy. 
"Symbolic interaction is very m'uch alive and kicking," he said. 
/"In the past ten years there have been major theoretical develop· ments in symbolic interaction in such area~ as thc: social, agc: and sex structures. 
"Thc:re Is a social structurt·," in contra~t to what symbolic 1nterac· tionists formerly put forth by thdr basic dc:finitions." 
The later kcturc ccnterc:d on a particular study rc:cently done in In~ dianapolis. Randomly chosen variabks of sex, age, and income were related to four hasic commit· ments which helpc:d to detl'rmine identity salience: spousal, pan·ntal, religious and work tics. 
Basically, Stryker was of the opinion that the major determinants of identity salience arc intenst· and commitment to home and fdmlly. In essence, Stryker revealed behavior as shown through commitments hao; great bearing upon thc: formation of idt·ntity, which in turn Influences the self. The self thc:n affects relationships which influc:nce socie­tal interaction, ultimately leading to a profile of that society. 
.-----------------------------------------------------------------­
l\T~~Sc~==~==i=~~~=S========~========================M=o=nd=a=y,=A=p=ri=Il=3=,1=9=8=t==p=a=ge=2 
by The Observer and The Associated Press 
Space shuttle Columbia shot straight for the heavens on a tower of white hot flame yesterday and sailed a perfect Loursc around earth; a spectacular heginning to an American era of making space a workplace for mankind. Everything worked. Flight One ofthe winged space freighter, piloted byJohn Young and Rohert Crippen, got off on time, soared smoothly into orbit, and flawlessly exercised its cargo hay doors during a critical early-flight test. Some of Columbia's troublesome tiles shook off, but officials weren't a.larmed. flight director Neil Hutchinson, at the johnson Space Center in Hous­ton, said nine thermal protection tiles arc missing on the left side of the spacecraft and four to six on the right. "I don't think that's going to bother us," he said. "We don't plan on any other tiles breaking loose." 
-AP 
Vice PresidentGeorge Bush said yesterday that critics of President Reagan's proposed hudgct cuts are wrong in raising doubts that the administration is insensitive to the economic problems of blacks and other minorities. "Believe me when I say to put aside your Joubts," the 1 ice president assured a largely black audience. "In this president and in his administration black and minority Americans have a man who will act, not deal in rhetorical flim-flam, to improve the quality of life for those who have suffered from bigotry and dis­l'fimination in the past." On his first out-of-town assignment since Reagan was shot March 30, Bush substituted for the recuperating president at Tuskegee Institute's Founders Day and Centennial Celebration. The predominantly black school was founded by renowned educator Booker T. Washington 100 years ago to educate former slaves and their children. -AP 
Deviation from communist theory has "fatal 
consequences," a key Soviet leader w,arned yesterday at East Ger­
many's Communist Party Congress, a meeting marked from its start by 
a comment on Poland. Mikhail Suslov, a Soviet Politburo member 
known as the Kremlin's chef ideologist, did not refer explicitly to 
Poland in his speech, in which he said only "consistent implementa­
tion of Marxist-Leninist principles guarantees the triumph of our 
Socialist ideals." "There is no other rad," Suslov said, "and any devia­
tion from our socialist teachings results in fatal consequences." He 
appeared to concede the Poles limited freedom to tinker with the 
system when he noted, while discussing East Germany, that Lenin had 
!>aid principles could be modified to fit national differences. That 
passage was the only one underlined in an official text of Suslov's 
speech provided hy East German officials. -AP 
Violent clashesbetween blacks and police erupted Sun­
day for the second straight night in the Brixton district ofsouth Lon­
don, hours after police sealed offthe burned and looted neighborhood 
and angry youths jeered touring Home Secretary William Whitelaw. A 
police spokesman said the rioters were attacking police "with any­
thing they could get their hands on" and described the clashes as 
"very violent." The new fighting broke out after more than 1,000 
police officers cordoned offmuch ofthe working-class distrid follow­
ing Saturday's violence, among the worst racial violence to erupt in 
Britain since World War II. Scotland Yard said at least 194 people, 16S 
of them police, were injured by rocks, gasoline bombs and bottles 
hurled in running street battles and attacks on police, medics and 
Hrcmen. -AP 
The school board met in special session yesterday and ratified a contract that ended a five-month teachers' strike, the longest in the nation's history. But the teachers at the meeting made it clear that bitterness lingers in the school district that serves 3,700 pupils. The 21 0-membcr Ravenna Education Association struck Nov. 12, seeking a 5300 raise on a base starting salary of $11,300. Ninety-two pl·rcent of the union members walked out at that time, but the sys­tem's nine schools stayed open with 14 non-strikers and substitutes. In time the issue ofa master contract to govern teacher rights became dominant and by last week just II 0 ofthe teachers were still out. The teacher~ ratified a master contract offer Thursday, with any pay raise cor1tin6cnt on a tax to be considered in a special election on June 2. "They'll be back (in school) today," said Richard Schneider, a negotiator from the Ohio Education Association "There arc still hattles to he fought, though." -AP 
To protest President Reagan's proposed cuts of Guaranteed Student Loans (GSL) and Basic Educational Opportunity Grants ( BEOG ). Notn· Dame Student Government officials will distribute pditions for student signatures tomqrrow in the dining halls and La Fortune Student Center, according to Don Murday, student body president. The ND Financial Aid Office estimates that the proposed nils will directly affect 4.100 University students, and the American <:ouncil on Education (ACE) estimates that the reductions will force SOO,OOO to. 700.000 students to drop out of school. An additional SOO.OOO to -,00.000, the ACE estimates, will be forced to transfer to another institution to continue their education. -The Obsen•er 
A 50 percent chanceofrain Monday with highs in the low to mid -,Os. A60 percent chance ofthunderstorms tonight Lows in the upper _iOs to low -!Os..Cooler. windy and cloudy Tuesday. Highs in 1he upper -lOs to low SOs. -AP 
Union leaderpays dues 
Baldemar Velasquez is a union boss. When I hear the words "union boss," I think ofan overv.·dght Teamster puffing on a huge cigar as he skims money from the top of the union dues to finance his next vacation. Please forgive the generalization; it is probably false i~ many cases, Baldemar's in particular. He is a down-to-earth, unpretentious man who leads a union of farmworkcrs that goes by the acronym ofFLOC (Farm Labor Organiz­


ing Committee). 
I covered Baldemar's talk when he was here last year, and it was then that my stereotypical view ofthe union boss was weakened just a hit. He only had time for two or three questions, but those few minutes were enough to convince me that this man was not heading up a uni­on of migrant farmworkers because there was any power or money involved, but because he had grown up working on farms. He knew firsthand of the condi­tions both in the fields, and in the labor camps which the workers called home from April to August. 
Baldemar returned to Notre Dame a few weeks ago for Farmworkers' Week. At that time I was able to get a more extensive interview With him. 
Baldemar painted a bleak picture ofthe working con­ditions in the fields of Northwestern Ohio. The day begins when there is enough light to sec the tomatoes, and work continues until sundown. There are no bathrooms or facilities for washing up in the fields. The greatest danger lies in the usc of pesticides in these areas. 
At first, the seizures and fainting spells due to over­exposure to these chemicals were thought to come from sun stroke. "All this time we thought it was the hot sun. Our parents would instruct us to go and sit in the shade for a while, until we could get some fresh air. Then, we went back when we felt bet­ter," Baldemar recalled. It was later discovered that pesticides were the cause of respiratory and cardiac problems. As a result, the Department of Labor has set the life expectancy of a migrant farmworker at 49 years. 
The conditions at home were no better, according to Baldemar. The farmworkcrs must live in one room shanties, within labor camps. The dimensions of the shack range in size from 12 by 14 feet to 18 by 22 feet ("If you're lucky."). Baldemar explained that the average house usually holds two beds, and a stove. "You have to do all of your cooking, washing, bathing, sleep­ing and visiting all in that area," Baldemar said. As one of a family of eleven, he is no stranger to overcrowded conditions. · 
What makes thse facts all the more poignant is that they arc not coming from a pamphlet or a slide show; these descriptions are coming from someone who has grown up under such conditions. 
FLOC seeks an end to these working and living condi­tions. They propose to reach this end by negotiating a contract with both the growers, and the companies 
The_Ohs_erYer 
Design Editor .................. Gregory Swiercz Design Assistants. ... Patty Hulley 

Kim Parent Typesetter... . ... Stephen Brown 
MILWAUKEE BREWERS 
.Veu•s Editor ................... Mary Agnes Carey Copy Editors ..... Kelli Flint Steve Navarre 
WHITE SOX OPENING DAY TRIP* 
Sports Copy Editor ......... Michael Ortman 
Tuesday April 14
T)pist ......................................... Mike Monk .\)•s/<'IIIS Control ... Bruce Oakley S.WC Dav Editor. .. .. Cece Balilcs 
Price: SlO
Ad Design.... ................... Woody & Co. Photographer... .. ............ Anne Fink Guest Appearances ........ Beth lochtefdd 
Call Mark Kelley 232-2578 FOR 
and her An Tostal Vanians Onc·Whosc·Hair·Has·Gone 
or TIX 
Epitaph t(Jr Moose Control 
Bob Durgin 277-6353 
*"Refreshments" will be provided on bus 
receivmg the produce, in this case, Campbell's, and Libby-McNeil-Libby. 
The key lies with the companies. The canning com­panies determine the amount of money that they will pay the growers each year for their harvest, and the growers in turn pay a percentage ofthis to the workers. Thus far, Campbell's and Libby's have refused to enter into talks with the growers and FLOC. The union also seeks hospital coverage and insurance for the months which they spend in the fields, as well as transportation to and from their homes in Florida and Texas. These demands have yet to be accomodated. 
The strike is the primary weapon of any labor union. FLOC is no exception. A general strike has been waged against the growers in the Toledo. Ohio area since the 
summer of 1978. Baldemar explained that during the winter months FLOC mem­bers travel to the home states of migant workers to encourage them to help on the picket line in the ap­proaching harvest season. A strike fund ha~ been or­ganized to support these pickets during the summer months. "Those who cannot afford to do this are asked to boycott the area, to go to other states to support their families," he said. 
Baldemar stated that the strike has had a "tremendous impact" on the area. "The growers' and agricultural officials' own es­
timates indicate that, in an area that normally neces­sitates over four thousand workers to harvest a crop, the past two seasons there have not been more than twelve hundred workers," he explained. 
News of the plight of FLOC has spread throughout the Midwest in the past year, spurred on by the boycott of Campbell's and Libby's products that was supported last year in a referendum by the Note Dame student body. Baldemar hopes to expand the boycott to include the East coast in the near future. 
After talkng with Baldemar, I could sense the strength and determination with which he appoaches his work as head of FLOC. These qualities can only in part he attributed to the sense of duty that goes along with being the head ofa labor union. He and his family have worked all of their lives under the conditions which he is now seeking to improve. He has worked alongside the people he is now fighting for. It is this personal back­ground that prompts Baldemar to continue his efforts on hehalfofthe migrant farmworkers. 
sox 
vs. 

Editorial Board and Department Managers 
Editor·in·Cbief. . . .. ..................John McGrath SMC Executive Editor ............... Mary Agnes Carey
Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
.11anaging Editor.. ...Tom Jackman SMCNews Editor .. ..................Cathy Domanico 
The Observer is an independent newspaper published bv the students of the 
E.>:ecutit•e .Veu·s Editor ... .......................lynne Daley Photo Editor............ ..........................John Macor 
ntversny of Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. it does nor nece..,sarih 
Neu•s Eqjtor.. ............ .. . .... .. ...... .Tim Vercellotti ·fleet the poltc1es of the administration of either institution. The news 1s reponea .\'eu•s Editor... .. .. .John Higgins Business Manager .. ..............................Rich Coppola ; ~ccurately and as obJeCtively as posstble: Edrronals represent the oprnion of a Senior Copy Editor . .. ... Mary Fran Callahan Controller................... .. .. .joe Mulftur 
.aJortty of the Ednonal Board. Commenranes, oprn10ns. and lerrers are the views Sports Editor.. .. .............. Michael Ortman Adt,ertising Manager .................. .. ...... Mark Ellis thetr authors. Column space is available to all members of rhe communrt\. and Features Editor. .... .... .. ... ... Rick Hermida Production Manager. .. ...... Ryan Ver Berkmoes Circulation Manager ........ ...............Tom Maclennan 
·e free expression of varying opinions on campus, through lerrns. is encou~aged. 
----------·------­
The Observer Monday,· April 13, 1981 page 3 
Due to demand 
'No discount' policy continues 
By DAVID SARPHIE 
StaffReporter 
Due to tht· high demand for tick­t•ts to athletic events, staff members will remain without the discount bt•nefits that mt·mht·rs of the faculty ren:lve, according l<l Director of Personnd Thoma.~ Bull. 
"It's true that members of the staff 
don't  receive  tickets  to  the  
games,"Bull  acknowledged.  
"There's such  a  high  dt~mand  for  

tickets now that we don't have enough to go around." Bull noted that In years past, tickets for one football game each year were given to tht· staff "We can't do that anymort•, hn·aust· the stadium is al­ways full," he commented. 
Staffmembers include custodians, food service workers, and the secretaries fur the various athletic and administrative oftkes. Adminis­tators, deans, and the heads of the various departments art· included on the administrative staff. 
Bull said the discount tickets ·are part ofthe ovt·rall privileges given to members of the faculty and ad­ministrative staff. "It's just like a nor­mal husint·ss," he remarked. "Executivt•s and management people usually have additional priv­leges over those received by the rank and filt:." 
Bull maintained that his office has provided for the basic needs of the staff mt·mbers. "Over tht· years, this University has improved in the areas of health insurance, life insurance, disability pay, and pension," he ex­plained. "From an institutional point of view, we've done a pretty good job in meeting their basic needs." 
The Observer learned of staff dis­content in a lt:tter from an anonymous staff member addressed to the editorials editor. In the letter, the staff member also charged that they arc barred from entrance to the University Club. 
A spokesman for the University Club acknowledged that only faculty and administrative staff members are allowed to join. "In the by-laws it states that the dub is only for the faculty and administrative staff," she said. "We don't even like students coming in with their parents." 

This youngster bad a tough time deciding u•bicb Bookstore Basket­ballgame to u•atcb this u•eekend. (Photo by Ann Fit>-k) 
'Great shape' 
Reagan recovers in seclusion 

FREE FLYING LESSONS 
PLUS OVER $16,000 INCOME YOUR FIRST YEAR 
And that's only the start of your career as a pilot/navigator. An Air Force officer. You'll acquire valuable experience that will pay off in civilian life like a head start on a commercial fly· mg career ... or impressive execu· tive credentials to go w1th the degree you're earning now: proven leadership ability and million-dollar responsibility. You can earn 
$28,000 per year after 4 years. 
Benef1ts including 3U days pa1d vacat1on annually, world-w1de alf travel, medical care and much more. It's a great way to serve your 
country. If you're between 20Y. and 27. a senior or graduate-college student, you may qual1fy. 
Air Force.•• A Great Way of Life 
The Alf Force P1lol and Nav1ga1or lnlerv1ew loam will be allhe Soulh Bend Ramada Inn on Apnl 24 Call 219-233·4747 for an appomtment 
WASIIINGTON ( AP)-President Rt·agan, sedmkd with his family at tht· White !louse, watcht·d the laufl(:hing of the space shuttle on tekvision yesterday and declared: "It's a spt·ctacular sight." 
A day after he was discharged from George Washington University llospital, the president's staff made a "hard and fast" dt·cision to leave him alone as ht· continues 10 recuperate from the bullet wound in his left lung. 
Reagan arose about 10 minutes before the shuttle launch and was visited by his personal physician, Dr. Daniel Ruge. lie spent the day watching tl'levlsion and reading briefing papers. 
"He's in great shape," Ruge said through Speakes. "He looks great." Reagan was taking penicillin orally to ward off infection in the lung 
wound  ht·  incurred during  an  at­ 
tempt on his life March :\0.  
Neverthdess,  aides  wt·re  reluc- 

Inmates rebel; take hostages 
SO liT II BEND, Ind.( AP) 
Inmates protesting living conditions 
at tht: St. Jost·ph County jail escaped 
from thl'ir n·lls yesterday and hl'ld 
two hostagt·s for thret· hours until 
city and county SWAT teams 
stormt·d the building. No injuries 
wt·re rt•portnl. Otlkials said about 
·10 Inmates In tht· jail's st:cond-floor 
fdony st·ctlon hroke out of their 
<.'ells about 7 a.m. and captured 
ft·rnale guard Marty Lynch and male 
guard Robert Crt·sst·y. then freed all 
other inmates -numbering about 
l.lO -in tht· four-story jail. 
It wa!> not immt·diatdy known 
how the first inrnatt·s broke out. The 
inmates asknl to air thl'ir grievances 
with two lo<.·al tdevision stations, 
hut polkt• nt·gotiators insisted the 
hoMagt·s ht· frn·ll first. 
The inmates rd'usnl, and a police SWAT tt·am ami <:anine unit stormed the huildin~ about I 0: I "i :tm. Tht· two hostages were freed unharmed :md inmatt•s wert· returned to their t·ells, polin· said. 
Assistant County l'rosenllor Mlc­hal'l Barnes said <:riminal charges may he filed against some of the inmates involvt·d. 
Inmate complaints tiJCused on a lad of visitation rights for tht· past yt·ar because of construction, lirnitt·d tt·kphone rights and had food. 
The jail is being remodded and the fourth floor, now usn( only for storagt·, is hl'ing renovated into inmatt· housing. The construction is scheduled to continue for anOLher four or live months. 
Thl'fe have hn·n two breakouts from tht· county jail this year, and city and county oftkials admit it is overcrowded. Last month the city jail dosed down and its inmates were transferred to the county jail, causing further overcrowding. 
Conditions at the jail were dis­t·ussed Friday at a met·ting held by the Black Anwrican Coalition, a local civil rights group, where County Councilman Odell Newburn said he would ht·gin his own investigation into conditions at tht· jail. 
• • • SMC 
continuedfrom page I 
cussed their budget. "Thirty-nine thousand dollars have het·n all­ocated and will ht· used li>r SAI'B and other things," Murphy said. "SAI'B will recievc most of th<.· money be­
. cause we want to make Saint Mary's the center of activities. I'm not hap­py with the way the;: budget was all­ocated, hut all the money will definitely bt· used." The money for the studt·nt government hudgt·t comes from tuiton and student government ft•es paid hy tht· stu­dents. 
SUMMER STORAGE SPACE 
Special discount for NDISMO students Security Patrol Checks 
259-0335 
SELF LOOK STORAGE OF MOKINLEY 816 East Me Kinley Mishawaka 
tant to disturb the president, whose only companions we;:re his wife, Nancy and daughter, Patti. "No one;: from the staff has seen him since he went into the elevator yesterday," Speakes said. "There wa.~ a con­scious decision on the part of the senior staff yesterday that once he went into that elevator to leave him alone and give him some time with his family. 
' 
ROCCOS  
I~ en's and women's hairstyling at comfortable prices 531 N. Michigan 233-4957  



¥¥¥¥-¥-¥ Special on Screwdrivers•••••• 
The Observer Monday, April 13, 1981 -page 4 

INTRODUCING 
~ic~imm 
lbl~l~~~ 
ADVERTISE FREE AS MANY ARTICLES AS YOU WISH PAY IF AND ONLY WHEN YOU SELL Private Owners Only 
Pick up your copy of the First Issue April 10 from your neighbo.rhood 
stores  or  from  our  office  at 1717 E.  South  Bend  Ave., SUite E,  
South  Ben d, IndWrite  iana or  46637. call  277-8521  to  place  your  ads.  

Deadline for accepting ads for our April 24th issue is Friday, April17. SPECIAL INTRODUCTORY OFFER Advertise for two weeks free in our April 24th issue even if you sell. 

DORMLIFE CRAMPING YOUR STYLE? 
t 
J 
t 

NOTRE DAME AVE. APTS 
2hedrooms completely furnished completekitchen off-streetparking up to 4 students 
$340-$360/month call234-6647 
continuedfrom page I 
system. We've had about 200 people write in or call in requesting assis­tance, in Social Security or Immigra­tion or any number of things, so dealing in that area and setting up a good communications network in the district -that third area is here. 
Now those issues that I've been talking to, and the kind ofrole I play in them, are not glamorous issues, they're not high visibility issues, they're not destined for the national press. But the things that I believe can make me an effective congress­man are the areas I want to move in­to, and I think that those are things I can best do in the next year. Now after six or twelve months in this area, then I'll take an assessment of where I am and see what I can do in 
the second year. 
I'm not sure that a freshman 
congressman is best served by trying 
to push through legislation under 
his own signature. You don't know 
the history -everything here has a 
history. I've had 1800 bills cross my 
desk, that have been introduced, and 
of those 1800 a handful will be 
passed. Now I can introduce bills for 
the sake of introducing bills, send 
them out and have them reported to 
a committee and never have them 
acted on. That hasn't done anything. 
I think what you have to do is when you get that issue that you find is most important, you know the his­tory of it, and you know who the main actors are in the Congress who can be responsible for getting it through, thenyou work on getting it through. That's very hard for a fresh­man to do -you're still learning the 
names ofeverybody. 
Q: On one of your first floor votes, otherthan for confirmations, you voted against bringing Presi­dent Reagan's proposal to increase tbe debt ceiling to the floor, but later you voted in favor of the proposal. 
A: No, what l voted against was bringing it to the floor under a closed rule, meaning that there could be no amendments added to it. I think that when you're a minority party, amendments on the floor are one of the few ways that a minority party has to have some in­fluence. In general, I'm never going to vote for closed rules, because I think that's an avenue we have to have to bring things through. The debt ceiling was one ofthem, where there were some amendments being considered on impoundment, and a couple of other things that would have been interesting to discuss. But the president wanted a clean bill, wanted strictly the debt ceiling on it, 
monday night film series 
Monday, April 13 
Badlands (Warner Brothers) 1974 Martin Sheen and Sissy Spacek lead as star-crossed young killers on the run across the American prairies in the 1950s. A brilliant and original film by Terence Malick. With Warr~n Oates. 
THE SNITE MUSEUM Of ART 
7:30 pm adrni~sion $1.00 sponsored by NO -SMC COMMUNiCATION &THEATRE 

I 
·Homecoming Statts NOWI' 
Be a part of the Action 
Attend the Organizational meeting 
Tuesday, April 14 6 pm. 
Student Union , Lafortune 
Questions? Call Beaty 8497 
SMC-ND 
Cheerleaders planspringdebut 
The women on the squad include: 
Obermiller; Laura Lewis. a fresh­hails from Ft. Wayne, Ind., Pattv·MacKay, a junior from LeMans and Lansing, Mich.:Jody Oegraft: another LeMans junior, from Lisle, Ill.; Lewis fresh­Alliance, Oh.; and another freshman, Farley of 
The new Irish leprechaun will be Peter Bourjaily. a sophomore from 
Alternates for the squad are fresh­man 'Fed Connor, a Dillon resident Stoll, . a Toledo, Oh., native and a freshman 
The squad will make its debut at Intrasquad be held in the 
Q&A 
and the Senate went along with it, and the House went along with it. 
Q: Under President Reagan's budget cuts, would the funding for ti.~e proposed ethanol plant (in South Bend) be lost? 
A: Yes. 
Q: Areyou going to try to do any­thing about that? 
A:No. 
Q: Is that going to hurt South Bend in any way? It would have created lots ofjobs, right? 
A: One has to make a determina­tion that either you believe in a program, and what it's trying to do, or you only kind of believe in it, and I'm 110 percent behind the presi­dent's program for economic recovery. I think it's the only al­ternative we have to bring down in­terest rates, to bring down inflation rates and unemployment. As a result, under the president's program, loan guarantees under the Department of Agriculture and the Department of Energy for alcohol fuel products have been terminated. And I'm supporting the program, and I'm not going to go to the president and say 'I support the program but...' and I've had more than one opportunity to do that, too. 
Q: Has Mayor Parent been in to visityou? 
A: Yes, he's been in several times. Naturally we disagree over the issue. 
Q: I guess you feel the same way about student loan guarantees. 
A: In general, I don't like loan guarantees, and the reason is that with the great increase in the general level of loan guarantees, I think it's led to higher interest rates and a higher prime rate. There's only so much credit around, there's only so big a pie for loans, and right now the government accounts for 2 5 per­cent of that pie, which is pretty dramatic. So what happens is that the bigger share that the govern­ment takes it puts guarantees on. That means that the rest of the pie is going to have higher interest rates, and so the small business guy that goes down and ge~s a loan pays 22.5 
percent. 
Q: Regarding committee assign­ments, did you ask for either the Government Operations or Small Business Committee? 
A: I asked for both ofthem. 
Q: What subcommmittees are you on? 
A: On the Government Opera­tions, my subcommittees are Energy, Environment and Natural Resources, and also Commerce, Consumer and Monetary Affairs. On the Small Business Committee, the titles are long -one deals with the Small Business Administration, there's Minority Enterprises, and one on energy. 
----------------------------... The Observer.-------~-----------~--=--=-=­
-~-----~---====--=======:::;_;.-=-:======== 
~«:)cJl(l~========================M=on=d=ay=,A~p=ri=lt=3=,1=9=st===Pa=ge~s
Molarity 
Michael Molinelli 

Campus· 
•12: 
I 'i p.m. -lt:nten mass, fr. Kriftin, Iafortune rathskelkr, all art· welcome. 

• 
3:30 p.m. -colloquium, space, time ami deity: ar­chitecture and lift· at notre dame, presentations hy r.j. aus­tin, c.s.c., prof. t.j. strich, h.p. kelly. 

•4:.~0 
p.m. -kcture, "heyond 


·legalism: the code, the chris· tian, and his conscknce," dr anne carson daly, I O'i Ia" school, spons: st. thomas mon· law colloquium. 
•6:00 p.m. -panel disn1ssion, l'haired hy prof. p. horsbrugh, 

The Daily Crossword 

All Rights Reserved 
ATTENTION ALL CLUBS AND ORGANIZATIONS Can You Believe It?? Club re-registration for 1981-82 is now taking place at Student Activities, 1st floor LaFortune. 
1. 
Annual registration form for 1981-82. 

2. 
Report of Activities. 


13. Financial Statement for 1980-81 
1, 2 and 3 must be completed by all student clubs in order to retain status of recognition and all its benefits, including funding from Student Activities Fee, eligibility for concession stands, and use of University facilities. 
Pick up and return forms by Friday, May 1 , 1981 . 
space, time and deity: ar­
chetecture and life at notre 
dame. 
•8 p.m. -drama reading, womenKt>nemad, a public reading of euripides, the hat·chae, directed by paul rtKhe, galvid aud., spons: Keneral program 
Doonesbury 

ACROSS 29 Orchestra 49 Isolated 24 Aggressive 1 Goswlftly member 52 Tarra· 25 Hautboy 5 Shoot 30 Branch diddled 26 City on the 10 Sticky 33 In repose 53 Souchong Wlllamette lump 34 Jackie or 56 Credit what 27 "This­14 Champing James Is heard aiL." at the bit 35 Birdcall 
60 Part 28 Attack 15 Mental 36 Fallin of QED 29 Chores balance love with 61 Viper 30 Thespian 16 Take on 40 Seth's 62 Overgrown 31 Revolving cargo mother 63 Inveigle part 17 Get Into 41 Like a 64 Poor 32 lntrospec· difficulty sieve 65 Lawyer: tive 20 Football 42 Heroof abbr. 34 Substantial holder Sherwood 
37 Certain 21 "-Lynne" forest DOWN ester 22 Senseless 43 Encountered 1 Entranced 38 Close by 
23 Encrust 44 Devours 24 Barrel 45 Fruit or chop 47 Distrustful 26 Wooden 48 Teamster's shoes command 
Friday's Solution 

2 Chills and 39 Mother fever of Zeus 3 Sheep 45 Pleasant 
shelter 46 Brick 4 Conceit carriers 5 Delivers 47 Be an 
an oration author 6 Western 48-and 
group dined 7 Split 49 Biblical 8 Equal: pref. brother 9 Earth: 50 Inca land 
comb. form 51 Winglike 10 Wink invol· 52 Comstock ­untarlly 53 High-strung 11 Turner or 54 In the 
Cantrell past, once 12 Pagangod 55 Wan 13 -noire 57 Vehicle 18 Shipshape 58 Dutch 19 Albania's commune 

P--------1
IBUY I 
I Q * I 
I B I
lc s 1 
I L E I 
I A R I 
I S V I 
I S E I 
I I Rl
I I
I F I 
I I I 
I * E I
I D I
..I ________Sl. 
Garry Trudeau 
.. /ll([) GeN/3RAUr, 5tNA7lJI?., r FEel-Hrtes 8ttN AN(M;WEIICT fl$fONSE 70 T111311fAJ) NIJJ SITU­mlfJIIN 8.. Sllllt4~. 5PWAU.Y IN U6HrOF GVIIJ£NCE 7HAr 7lE VICflM5 MIGIIT HillE !*EN 1ERM!Nit!WPJ!Ite I'JJN­
Yc5, cov­
GRE55MAN, 
I THIN!< I CAN.. 
! 
------~-------... 
Monday, April13, 1981-page 6 
• • • Sportsboard 
The Observer 

continuedfrom page 7 Dean Roemer & the Keg less Demers by 4 Masters of Disaster over Upper Mulakan Off­
Head Over Heels over Buster Hyman, Connie 
campus by 15 Lmgus & the Cherries by 8 
Stepan2Bookstore 10 
I. M. Stiff Erect1on Firm over The Ox & the Hot­4 Odds & an End over The Bald Heads, 22-20 (OT) 
Shooting Z-Men by 3 Oral Six over B. Foley, Kmg of the Uglies by 13 
The V1rtuals over Their Wives With Whips & TOXIC Shock sy-ndrome & the 4 Relyables overS. 
Chains by 16 Judy & the ELO by 11 
The New Mafia over ..Youth Foundation by 17 Let's Win One for... over Lou's Legacy by 10 
Dr. Dunkenstein & the 4 Skms over The Inner 
Lyons11 
Th1ghs of Attila the Hun by 15 WHIPT overS. Judy & the Hometnes by 11 
The Good, the Bad, and the Ugly, and ... over A. .. s A heme Machine over Sprout & the Clue Finders by 
in Action by 12 
3 
Stepan 3 A Touch of Class over St. Ed's Arson Squad by 5 
819 Organ and h1s Bouncmg Balls over Now S. Judy & the Electric Shocks over 4 Jokes & the 
Mark Foresman don't... by 3 Jock by 4 
Pontius Pilate & the Nallbeaters over W1ggly . Lyons12 
Worms by 13 Good Ole Boys over 4 Skms & a Jew by 15 
Jane's Tram Gang over Baby Killers by 14 Spoofhounds over Gram Pulls II by 5 
The Buzzards over Strokmg lnsh by 9 Fame less Outcasts over Boomer's Bombers by 10 
Stepan 4 Wrecked ·em as a Whole over Geritol Express by 
Hill's Angels over fighting Monvirconntl's by 14 10 
The Celibates overS. Judy & the Grateful Dead by Saturday's Results 
10
Stepan 1 4 Jerks & a Squirt over Muff divers by t4There Once Was A Team... over Mr. T. & Bootsie by The Jackson 5 over TR Douche & the Rubber
4 
Receptacles by 8 Team A over The Charmutas by 11 
Rams v. Clit1bingU1sts over Rams. 23-21 (OT) Bookstore9 Morrisson Schwartter & the Toxic Wastes over Jim P1nk & the Blues over Killer Tomatoes by 18 
Muff Diver & the Beavers over Stv & the Family V' by? In Memory of B1g Dog over .. Graves by 12 
J. Arthur & the Traveling Hose Bags over Sir 
Cumc1s1on & the 4 Skms by 7 Last Year's Champs over Rita Jenrette & the Abscam Bucket Shavers by 8 Gimme Hell over Born to Run, 23-21 (OT) 
Bookstore 10 
The Open Facers over Angela Cartwnght & the Robot Refugees by 14 Captam Muff & the Seamen over T1gers by 5 Atomic Drops over 1st Round Bye by 8 
S. Judy's Electnc Co. over Spots Yardapes by 3 4 Jerks & a Dnbbler over JATAT by 4 
T. B. Express over Lennon& Chapman Smg H1t Me With Your Best Shot by 9 Lyons11 The Squ1dleys over 5 S. Carolma's Lookmg for.. 
by 12 The Doobies over Fabulous Furry Freak Brothers by 12 
Uncle John's Band over Mymynezablank by 12 
McNamara's Band over Yesterday's Napkms. 22­20(0T) CF over Judy's Jurors by 5 
Lyona12 Lex Talion1s over SPIDER 5 by 3 Totally Irresponsible over Rednecks by 7 Cosmo Carbones over F1ghtmg Intellectuals by 4 We Jamm1n' m the Name of the Lord over Court Jesters by 6 
Flu1d Force over P... Jack & the Casket Kids by 20 Yesterday's ReauHa 
Stepan 1 BYE over Dnbblmg Dyxz by 10 Flight over Prof. Bruce & the Wallamalloo Wnst 
Ra1sers by 17 
S. Judy. Dan SillS ... over S B P D Search Squad. 25-23 (OT) 
Stepan 2 Dorothy Straiten & the In-Your-Face K1ds v. Destroyers by 9 
The lnter1erons over No. but senously. where are .. by17 1st Round Losers over Celts by 8 Stepan3 
US over Sweat Glands by 6 Richard Pryor & the Have a Coke Free base Players over C.D.S. by 6 
Puberty & the Newcomers over Bruno & the Natural Love JUices ... by 16 
Stepan 4 East Coasters over Bouncmg Bongs by 11 Roemer s Reg1na Raceway over Luc1ous L1nda & the F~remen·s Hoses by 9 Take This Ball & Shove It over Razor backs by 14 
Bookstore9 Wildcats over Defendmg Meyers by 9 Live Mus1c is Better.. ovr Hammer Head & the 
Sharks by 6 
W. Pace over Worst Team m the Tournament by 12 Five Footers over Brooke & the Panty Sh1elds by 3 
J. J.·s Team Wants to Play Gerry Fa"st's Team in the 1st Round over The New K1ds on the Block by 6 
Bookstore 10 Nebo's II over Happy Hour by 9 Doug Walsh & the H1gh Rates over The S. Judy Sw1m Team by 12 
CoL Lmgus & the Pr1vates over Kmg Kong & the 4 
Monkey Spankers by 5 Return of the Nutmeggers over Honk Haley & the Comets II by 9 
Proud Father & the 4 Uncles over Strap­pamasquon & the Combat Wombats by default 
Lyons11 The Master Gees-over The 69 Mets. Etc. by£ The Bnck Layers over The Afterb~rths by 13 Aggravated Assault II over Net Prophet by 5 Logan Leapers overThe Bemhos by 16 
Lyons12 LUDUS over The Fighting Ish by 4 Dana·s Demons over Peter & the Penetrators by 3 Humor at the Expense of Others over Panama Red by 2 
SECOND ROUND Today'a Games Stepan 1 
4:00-Golden Griffins v. The Marty Wemers 
4:45 -Lovely Bottoms v Mayor Parent & the 
Stnpsearchers 5:30-M. D. Chapman & the John Lennon Fan Club v. We can·t play b-ball. but we Know how to score 
Stepan 2 4:00-Nell's R.C.M.P.S. v. Toxic Shockers 4:45-Jack Schm1dt & the One-Eyed Hoag1es v. Henry Cabbott Henhouse Ill & the Superch1ckens 5:30-Larry & Gary WaiL' v. Sons of Thunder 
Stepan 3 4:00-Tequila Wh1te L1ghtnmg v. Rocket J. SqUir­rel & H1s Flymg C~rcus 4·45-Back to Reality v. Lennon, Chapman & H1s 3 Good Shots 
Stepan 4 4:00-Keon·s Boundry Spanners v DDS Squad 
4.45 -Fat Chances v. Frank LaGrotta. Craig Chval & 3 Other.. 
Bookstore 9 4:45-S1d & the Seamen v. V1sua1 Orgasm 5:30-4 Cool Guys & Grant v. WEBB's End 6:30-The Fightmg Koalas v. The Assassms 
Bookstore 10 4:45-Rockets m our Pockets v S Judy & the 5 
Volts \ 5:30-Doctors of Bnck v. S Judy & the Shock Absorbers 
6:30 -Proverbial Societal Sponges v. Mini­
Maggie & the G1ant K1tters Lyons11 
4:45 -J. Kleme & the Forced Entnes v. Re­classified Nads 
5.30 -Fr. A1ehle s Cheap Cigars v A. Parent. 
Mark Fatum & 6:30-The Pretenders v. W1111am Futtbuckly & the Greek Intellectuals 
Lyons12 4:45-Atlanta Joe... v. Gone With the Wind 5:30-LegaliZed Abortion & the Coathanger K1ds 
v. Skywalker & the C~rcle Jerkers 6:30-Solemn But Deadly v Orange Sk1masked Duck Molesters


~j)()~tS~!I~.T~h~~r~,~=:~:,.(.,~a:n~~T~he~A~JJu:":"''~d;,f',:tri~=========================M=o=n=da=y=,Arp=~.:
..:.~.~.·=:IB=Io=3=,01=9K=8S=I=T=O=PRa=gE=e.~:
They are one win away from reaching thdr third The Notre Dame women's track clubput ...N ~ 
t·onsecutive 20-win st:ason. Notre Dame's men's tennis team, now 19· 
H. took thrt·e matd1es over tht· Wt'l'kend at the Bowling Grt't'n Quad· rangular. defeating Akron, '\-0 anti Northern Illinois, 6-0 in rain-shortt·ned matches. and Bowling Green H-1. Against Akron and Northern Illinois, the Irish did not drop a single set. In their match against Bowling (;recn. Mark Hoyer and Jim Falvey took three sets to heat thdr opponents, while Tim Noonan and Paul Ipsik dropped a squn·ker, 6·7, 7-6, 6-7. The Obserr•er 
The Notre Dame lacrosse team jumpt·d to an early 1·0 lead after one quarter ar~d held offseveral Wooster thrt·;us to earn a 6-'\ Midwest Lacrosse Association victory on Saturday. Juniors Bill llondt· and Stevt· Linehan notched two goals apiece for the Irish, who upped thdr Ml.A record to 2·2 and their ovt'fall mark to 3· 3 with their st-cond straight kagut· decision. "Since Wooster felt they had a slight edge.: in the game.:, our shutting them out in the first quarter definitely hdpt·d," said Irish coach Rich O'Lt·ary. "Our deft·nse played very wdl and our offenst· kt·pt things happening on thdr end of the t1eld too." Wooster's league ret·ord dipped to 2-2. -The Obserr1er 
Notre Dame's women's tennis team left for 
the statt· of Michigan friday and returned home yesterday with an Oreo cookie. Tht· Irish lost to Michigan and Michigan State Friday and yesterday by identical 8-1 scores, but salvagnl tht· weekend with a 9-0 thumping of Wayne State Saturday. Junior Pegj.,>y Walsh, playing in the numbt·r-six singks spot, prevented Notre Dame from being whitt·washed by Division I teams Michigan and Michigan State by pos­ting tht· lone Irish victory in both matches. Walsh's 3·0 weekend boosted her 1980-81 singles mark to 23·9. The Irish, now 17-6 in dual matches, will play host to DePauw Wednesday at the Courtney Tennis Ct·ntt·r. -The Obserr1er 
Signups for interhall golf tournament and trat:k meet are now taking place at the Non-Varsity Athktics otlke in the ACC until Tues. April 14. You may register by stopping by the office or hy calling 718'\. -The Observer 
·----·_____________..___ 
on another impressivt· performance Saturday in the Notre Dame In­vitational. The Irish finished second out of the three teams, handily defeating Southwestern Michigan, but losing to Hillsdale. The finish, however, was decdving since the Notre Dame learn didn't have any performers in any 11cld events because ofinjurit.'s, nor any avialablc for the I'iOO mt•tt·rs, 100 meter hurdles, and the -4x100 relay team. Four first place finishes for the dub highlighted the meet. Freshman Cindy Short ran a I :02.7 400 meters whik classmate Carolyn Woidat ran a 
I: 1O.H 400-meter hurdles which knocked I 0 seconds off her previous best time. Senior Kathy Merra put on another top-flight performance with a I0:4H.O .~000 meters run which bettered her previous personal best by 16 St'l'onds. The mile relay squad of Barb Jacobs, Mary O'Connor, Woidat, and Short also won the gold with in 4: 17.7. Other top Irish performances included freshman Rosemary Desloge's 
18:16.0 SOOO meters which won second place, freshman Rachel AI· len's fourth place in the I00 meter dash (: 13.3 ), the second and third place finishes hy sophomores O'Connor and Jacobs in the 800 meters with times of. 2:24.1 and 2:26. 'i, respectively, and sophomore Melani Murray's second place finish in the 3000 meters ( I I :09 ). -The Ob­serrJer 
Tom Watson turned back any would-be challen­gers with a front-running 71 and scored his second Masters victory yesterday in the 4'ith renewal ofgolfs annual spring rite. Watson, who established himselfas golfs current king with his 1977 triumph on the rolling hills ofthe Augusta National Golf Club course, won this one by two strokes with a 280 total, dght shots under par. While he never trailed over the last 18 holes of this, the t1rst of the year's four major tests of gol11ng greatness, the green jacket was a hard-won piece of cloth. First -and last -there was the indomitable figure of .Jack Nicklaus, now 41 and secure in his position as the finest player the ancient game has produced. At other times, there were johnny Miller, gritty little John Mahaffey and Greg Norman, the white-haired Australian sharp-shooter. All got close at one time or another on the warm spring afternoon, but none ofthem could ever take that last step on the trek through the azaleas and dogwoods. None ever managed to pull even with Watson. -AP 
SECOND ROUND Frldoy'a Reautta 
Stepon 1 John Murphy's Slime Tram over 5C Whalers by t7 Chuck Connor Real Eslate R1t1emen over F1ve GuardO by t1 SophiSIIcados over Lynne Daley & the Baby Seal Slaughterers by 11 Capt Vaseline & I he Slippery Strokes over Oock1e 
S. s AII·Stars by tO 
Slepan 2 Stooges over Hoag·s Monslers by 7 Chamsaw & H1s 4 Beavers overS Judy s Electnc Company by 9 Roemer's Narc Squad over Basketcases by I 8 Cotton Pony Tony & the over Dnbblmg Beavers by 10 
Stepon 3 Dr J & the Penetration Professionals over Wed Rathher Be Sw1mrmng by 10 Alhletes Out of ActiOn over S Judy & !he Rismg 
Sun by 14 Ch1p1gula & I he Debauchers over Wall Gamson & the 4 D1ps by t2 
TheT P ·severS Judy&theEiectncPersonalilles by tB 
Stepon 4 Plato & I he Fan1ast1c Forums over Boxer At bel· l10n by t1 
Slaughterhouse 5 over Rubber B"CUIIS by 4 SOt Sl Louis St Bu, nouls over Muacle on Court by 7 Takee·Outee & the Weasel Bleeders over Sean·s Cella Express ReviSited by 7 
Stepon 5 Pu1111n I he Hole over J. C & the Apostles by 12 Stepon8 69ers over Rock Heads by tt Stepon 7 Ou1ck Shot & the Embarrassmg Slams aver Vaselme Alley by 4 
Stepon 8 Fubar over Willie Classen & the Unconscious Shoolers by 6 
Bookotoroe 
Cocoon's Surf Squad over A1co Carty. a Party. by 9 S1r V1c's Explorers II over Mr Belland Has No Ha1r by 5 Sisler Polansk(s Pnmary Day School over A1ver C1ty Res1due. 22·20 (OT) 
see SPORTSBOARD, page 6 
~\11, :.,~·o~lr•·d .tlb 1t ~~~~ t1~· t~!t.et..,t!r1 h-,. 4 45 p ,.,, 'Wt1 ;1oJ\5 pr•o· ·o lhf• 
•!-.StH' "whrt·t· Jt•P .:.1 IS r11n Tht> Observer offiCt' ,\.<II ..tCt fiOI · '·"'S'Stltf!d~ MonOd\ ltHOli~Jh Ftid;l\r 1('I no .t ,.,. 'U 4 45 p m 411 \ lass•ftt!fh '11uSI llfl
Classifieds 
fl/1!-p,lltl f111hf>t Ill t.PrC:.Ofl rn 111WlJ'~I1 HlP rl,dll 
LOST. Tan-maroon reversible racket. Need nde to Massachusells area tor Hey Mamie & Andrea: R&R & BHs ONLY 34 DAYS UNTIL GRADUATION MUFFY, Han1e, Janeo·Dramoposs1bly at North D1nlng Hall last week Easler. Call M1ke-t780.
LNOTICES] 
foreverlll DAY! 
I promised you I wouldn't send you aMom will d1sown me. Call John at 3256. 
personal I also promrsed not to tellNeed ride to Northern Jersey. NYC area pam degnan, BRIDGET$ DAILY SPECIALS everyone how beautiful. sweet, won­EXPERIENCED TYPIST WILL DO tor Eastor. Will share usual. Call Donal how d you like to have your mstep ALL YOU SMC WINE DRINKERS BE derful. awesome. and mcandescentTYPING CALL 287·5t62 
67t8 Can leave Tuesday. 
caressed? (lor cheap I) THERE 
yuu are Promtses are made to be scoop 75C WINE 3-7 EVERYDAY 
broken. ESPECIALLY BY LITTLEINSTANT CASH PAID FOR CLASS RIDE NEEDED TO PITTSBURG AREA ALL YOU NO BEER DRINKERS BROTHERS! Happy Birlhday!
RINGS $20·$85 OR MORE WE MAKE OR ANY PLACE CLOSE 2 PEOPLE.. 
25C OFF ALL BEER EVERYDAY 3·7 Vou.1gnorant S·-·1 Hope Cat.Calhy. andHdUSE CALLS 255·2402 CALL 277·8280 BRIDGET$ SPECIAL DURING SPRING 
Ihe S·· ·MOBILE surv1ve you tor another COME BY AND CHECK OUT THE DAl­We have room tor two nders to 
year. now that your20All those Interested 1n buymg BOSTON I NEED RIDERS TO SOUTH CAROLINA LY SPI=CIALS Cleveland area. Call Liz 2t79 LOVE AND POPOV VODKA. Dav1dCLUB sh~rts can call J1m G1blin att528 AVAILABLE NEXT SCHOOL YEAR 2 OVER EASTER BREAK. WILL BE WIL· 
HAPPY HOUR 3-7 EVERYDAY The cost IS $8 and all SIZes are FIVE BEDROOM HOUSES. NEAR NO. LING TO TAKE RIDERS GOING TO HIL· 
HOW MANY PEOPLE DO YOU KNOW NEED EXTRA GRADATION TICKETS?
ava1lable LEASE. DEPOSIT 234·2626 TON HEAD II mterested call BRENDAN Nme mare days un111 the Long Island THAT MAKE THE CHILDREN CRY??? 
Call Tom Shiels.. he has no fam1ly orat 8440. 
Lover's b1thday. Ladles. be on hand JUST ONE PRO BURKE FOR UMOC tnends Vote TOM 'CLEM SHIELS lorElections lor BOSTON CLUB ot11ces AVAILABLE SUMMER AND NEXT when Paul enters manhood as he THE UGLIEST MAN ON CAMPUS!II! 
UMOCtor t981-1982 will be held next Mon· SCHOOL YEAR t AND 3 BEDROOM NEED RIDE TO BOSTON AREA FOR celebrales the b1g 2-01 Birthday k1sses VOTE PRO day, Apnl t 3, at 6 30p m. m the APARTMENTS 234·2626 EASTER BREAK. CAN LEAVE WED AT w111 be accepted at 200 Stanford Hurry, 
Ques. What s the only lhmg that can because \he line is already tormmg. ATTENTION LONG ISLAND CLUBLafortune Lillie Theater II you are In­NOON WILL SHARE DRIVING AND make Gerry Fausl leave Notre Dame?
terested m ge1t1ng Involved. you must Furnished 3·4 bedroom house for sum­$$$.CALL STEVE AT 8630. 
Don't be the only girls m your section to MEMBERS MEETING ON TUESDAY Ans Have h1m meet Tom Shielsattend mer. $200-mth 233·3552. 
m1ss out on Paul (that's Pawl) Some· APRIL t4 AT 6:30PM IN LAFORTUNE Vote TOM SHIELS tor UMOCNEED RIDE TO EVANSVILLE. INO FOR lofske·s big day NO men, don't forget LITTLE THEATRE CONCERNING OF·TYPING. MODEST RATES, 233·949t Houses for rent summer and next EASTER. CALL CAROLYN 4t-5716 that Apnll 22 IS also Mary Belh Bren­FICER ELECTIONS, BAGGAGE TRUCK Oues Who 1s Phyllis Diller?
school year. Gd. cond . close to nan·s birthday, and should be com· RESERVATIONS AND BUS GOING 
Ans Runner up '" the Nancy Zaczek memerated With tons at birthday k1sses HOME FOR THE SUMMERTYPING··Only $ 65 a page Call llan. campus. turn Call 287·5361 after 6 NEED RIDE TO BOSTON AREA FOR look·a·llke contest272·5549 pm. BREAK. IF GOING HOME. PLEASE 
as well! 
Vote NANCY ZACZEK tor UWOCCALL SHAWN AT 4t-5t24. 
HELPIIII I NEED A RIDE TO THE DAISY SALEII ORDER A BUNCH SUMMER SUBLET 2 Bedroom LADY FRANCIE -KANSAS CITY AREA FOR EASTER Quos Why IS 11 always ra10y m South(ONLY $1 00) AT DINNER APRIL Townhouse. Complelely Fun1shed tr' you need a ~ide to lndia~a~lis on MY HEART WILL FOREVER BE BREAK!!I! WILL SHARE EXPENSES Bend?
t5,t6,21,22 WILL DELIVER lncludmg washer&dryer. pool Rent Ne· Thurs. call Steve at t070 YOURS. AND INTERESTING CONVERSATION' Ans Nancy Zaczek went sunbath mgtANYWHERE ON CAMPUS got1abte. Call277·8158 COSMO PLEASE CALL PEG··· I 28B. Vote NANI.Y ZACZEK tor UWOC 
Large 11ve bedroom house. furnished, 

Professional tree climbing lessons anyone with any information regardtng JUNIORS A~,_.,ca110ns tor 1982 Senior on Notre Dame Ave. Call272 8870 Call Lisa Long at 3429 tor deta1ls. 
the whereabouts. alias·. or sexual Formal Chanman are now aYallable tn preterences of e1ther Gretchen Falsi or 307 Dillon and 1002 Flanner All m·
l.osT/FOUND! 
HOW BOUT THAT LUMBERJACK Kathleen Bneg PLEASE CALL 8701 teresled Sen1ors-to-be are en·
~------------~ ---------] 
LOOK? FRANK CETTA FOR UMOC! 
couraged to apply Deadline Thursday On Apr 13 VOTE K1mberly Kentra·· 
April 23 Any ques11ons call Dave
WANTED
I lost my room keys 1n an 1ntox1cated HEY N.D.I P.W. HAS FOODSALES. Heather Qumn for LeMans 81·'82 (1783) or M1ke (t4t61moment I don 1 know exactly where I component stereo for may purchase 
~------· 
OPEN 9·t2 SUN-THURS. 9·1t FAI· 
lost !hem. but I believe 11 to be on Green bob 232·0982 SAT. EVERYONE WELCOME. You know you're a second semester HI BFIUCEF1eld II you tmd a set ot keys w1lh t 008 TENNIS INSTRUCTORS WANTED. Ex­
senwr when the most Important thmg on them please call Mike t474 cellent h1gh paymg Summer JObs tor 
TUTOR NEEDED Basic Math lor an on your mmd IS what's for dmner at the HIstudenls w1th tennis expenence Call 
adult Contact Volunteer Servtces, dmmg hall. Incidentally. there are onlyLOST A blue racket w1th a while limng Pat al (301) 654·3770 7308. 35 days left unt1l graduation day! 
VKH.
al S!epan on Sunday between 6,30 and Congratulations on your scholai'Shlp
cTICKETS
8 00, Return to Mark al305 Sotin or call Needed R1de to Washmglon D.C. for lady seeks senous relationship w1lh JANE-0 IS A F I B ! 
and your great piiChlngl (Never mmd8542 Easter Can toave Thurs A.M. or Wed man, EnJOY the arts. outdoors. non· the th1n blood Ill)P M Call Mary Jut1e. 41 ·4376 smoker Wnte t 222 E. South Sl. SB, Molly Woulfe 1s a F. I B, too! Just ask Your future room maloLOST A green notebook conta1nmg 1m· Desperate tor nde1 
466t5 Bnan portant biology notes Return to Mark 
I need 3 (lhal·s three) graduation liCk· 
ets. (Yes. folks. 1ts startmg already.) It Clare lor UMOCat 305 Sonn or call 8542 REWARD NEEDED 2 RIDES TO&FROM R1de Needed lo the Leh1gh Valley or FOR PHOTOGRAPHERS WHO 
G1mme a break CLEVELAND FOR EASTER BREAK you can help me. call Scoop at t772, You cant bear to stare at Claie 
Anywhere m Eastern Pa. for Easter. APPLIED FOR A POSITION ON NEXT Clare tor UMOCWILL SHARE$$ CA~L JIM 8700 
Can leave Wednesday Afternoon. 4· 15. YEAR'S OBSERVER STAFF. !he dec1 LOST PAIR OF PRESCRIPTION 
NEED 2 GRADUATION TICKETS please call MIKE at t866 sian will be announced 1n the personal Mtss1ng Nan KoslowCALL Tom 234·t367GLASSES -TORTOISE FRAMES IN NEED 2 GRADUATION TIX $$WILL column Tuesday or Wednesday alter It located. callt588YELLOW CASE PLEASE CALL IF PAY$$ CALL JOHN AT t846 OR t787 SECRET PAL Easter break. AI thai lime both stall andNEEDED MANY TICKETS FOR GRADA­FOUND-FRANCIE 277-8760 YOUR LETTER CAME TOO LATE alternate photographers will be an·TION CALL ToM AT t650 OR t868
NEED RIDE to Miami-Ft. Lauderdale or 
CALL AGAIN-RAH nounced. and a t1me Will be grven tor Need nde to MILWAUKEE lhursday 
LOST BASKETBALL BEHIND almost anywhere else In Florida AFTER before Easter lor break Can share ex­
appll· ccarlts to pick up the1r appl1ca·Desperately need to buy grad 11x
BOOKSTORE TUESDAY. APRIL 7. AF­GRADUATION. Call John H1ggms at Dan LeDuc: A lace not even h1s mother t1ons and photographs penses Call De~rdre at 80t3 Call late 1f 
Please call Kathy at t2878553 or t715 and leave a message
TER 5 30 PM CALL PIERRE 32t7 could love Dan LeDuc tor UMOC Dan you cant reach me any other l1me 
LeDuc will make you puke! Vole Beth DeBauche and Barb Be· Needed Ride to Sl Lou1s for Easter 
ckman La Mans Hall Otf1cers Can Leave Tues. PM. or Wed. A.M, Will Q What do you do 1n the Yukon when
JUNIORS-SENIORS TO BE Prov1de the unusual plus gas call tog1c and proport1on begm to lade?
Applications now available tor t98t·82 Best of luck 1n Book.stote Gt 'd 'ol 
The Observer (USPS 598 920) IS 
Re1ne11e 4t·5732 or Mary 4t-5729 A Remember what the darmoose sa1d
Semor Advtsory Counctltn Student Ac· Boys! published Monday through Fr1day 
PERSONALS Feed your head1
IIVIIIeS OffiCe m LaFortune Apply by Your No. t fdns except dur~ng exam and vacatton 
Need nde Ia Philadelphia for Easter (One tor the Tnv1a Man. and tor tans of
Apnlt4 Can leave on Wednesday Please call The sky IS the llm11 when yot• vote for rabbitS af"'d au planes)
per~ods The Observer 1s publiShed 
Maureen at 4t·5791 I Moose Con• rot
BUNNY & TINA. DeBauche and Beckman Lei. ans Hall
by the students of Notre Dame and 
Jell Jeffers IS so ugly, he knows 11! You know who I am. when do I f1nd otlicers
Samt Marys Colteg" Subscr1pt1ons 
NEED RIDE TO ANN ARBOR Ml FOR out who you are? You know where to Carven as ol old,
may be purchased tor $30 per year 
EASTER WILL SHARE EXPENSE CALL GOODE IS BAD ltnd me APPLETON WISCONSIN Need t nde These words I read m stone
($15 per semester) by wntmg The Ob­
3048 GOODE IS BAD JOHN for Easler Break Call Jim tt59 
Here has Moose Control server, P 0 Box 0 Notre Dame In· 
GOODE IS BAD He lived and d1ed atone tm gomg to Rockford. lllmo1s on Eas· J1m Goode tor UMOC.
d1ana 46&56 
ter Sunday Need a nde? Will be gone FOR AN UGLY FACE LOOK AT PRO ATTENTION N.D WOMEN, Tired ot 
Sorrow slowly turned to dread
The Observer 1S a member of the 
JUSt tor the day Call4·1·5792 PRO BURKE BURKE. THE UGLIEST THING ON bemg degraded? Here·s your chance 
As I looked upon I he name.
Assoc1ated Press All reproduction 
PRO BURKE CAMPUS JUST WHEN YOU THOUGHT to gel back at a FAT UGLY N D male For I knew even as I read 
r~ghfs are reserved 
NEED RIDERS TO CHAMPAIGN. ILL VOTE BILL KATZENBERGER FOR
HE MAKES THE CHILDREN CRY!!!I IT WAS SAFE TO WALK THE QUAD IN 
I m1ghl end the sameAREA FOR EASTER BREAK CALL SAVE THOSE PENNIES FOR UMOC PEACE. YOU SAW PRO PRO BURKE UMOC! H1s UGLINESS IS only MARTHA 4·1·5151 PRO. YOU'RE AN UGLY MAN I!! FOR UMOC!III exceeded by his CHUBBINESS! 
Brooe Oakle 
~--­
1 I I 
I ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------·-------. I The Observer Monday, April 13, 1981 --page 8 
I 
I f Defense dominant
I 
I 
I 
I Offense sputters in scritnmage 
• 
By MICHAEL ORTMAN yards on sacks. scoring burst. Sports Editor Both Kid and Koegel overcame Irish Items A host of rough starts to move the Irish of-. celebrities watched the scrimmage 
Coach Gerry Faust has said all fense. Kid completed four of eight from the press box. Former Irish along that by the end of spring passes for 35 yards and had one pass coach Ara Parseghian ( 1964-74, 95· practice, he will have picked out hi~ picked off by linebacker Tim 17-4) arrived early and saw war· number one and number two quar­Ponslcr. mups and the first half hour of the terbacks for the 1981 football Koegel, who led the offense to the scrimmage. Parseghian was trying to season. And even though it may be match names with numbers as he too soon to predict who will be call­evaluated the talent. Executive Vice ing the signals on September 12 Spring Football'81 President of the University, Fr. Ed­against Louisiana State, two men al­mund Joyce joined Ara shortly after ready seem to be emerging as the the first play and then Dan Devine two leading candidates as spring ( 1975-80, 53-16-1) arrived to, as practice nears the half-way point. only score of the afternoon, boasted Devine put it, "second-guess with 
In Saturday's hour-and-a-half the most impressive statistics, the experts." Parseghian couldn't scrimmage in thc Stadium, incum-completing 8-of-14 for 75 yards. stay very long because ofan engage­bent Blair Kicl and senior Tim Like Kiel and Grooms, Koegcl also ment in Elkhart, but Devine watched Kot·gcl saw considerable action had a pass intercepted, this one by with Fr. Joyce until the finish. with the top two offensive units, and linebacker Steve Cichy who recent· A sun-tanned Digger Phelps ob­both showed that they are ready to ly made the switch from strong served from the field, as did high lead Faust's first Irish team in the faiL safety. school coaches from Cincinnati 
As Faust expected, the scrimmage "I was very pleased with Tim's Moeller. A crowd of about 400, was dominated by the defense. "I play today," said offensive coor· mostly students and Quarterback thought the defense looked super," , dinator Tom Lichtenberg. "What he Club members, watched from the l'aust said after his team's first full-needs most is to gain a little more east stands. umtact session of the spring. "They confidence." Lichtenberg certainly The only other scrimmage of this got off the ball welL They were should know, having coached Phil kind will be on Saturday, April 25, agressive and they were quick. I real-Simms (now with the New York one week before the May 2 Blue· ly don't know how much better they Giants) at Morehead State. Gold game... April 25 is the eve of could have played. Koegel, who led Faust's 1975 and the Bookstore Basketball finals, 
"The offense played in spurts, but '76 Moeller teams to the Ohio state speaking of which, Faust was in a that's bound to happen in the first championships, has to work out the hurry to leave after the scrimmage contact scrimmage." kinks, having seen very limited ac-Saturday, because he was flying to 
AII in all, though, Faust was tion in his four years at Notre Dame. Cincinnati to visit his family which pleased with the progress on both "I was a little nervous at the begin­he left behind when he came to sides of the line. "I think this gave us ning," he said. "But by the end, I was Notre Dame (They'll be joining him an honest appraisal of our people," feeling more relaxed. It's all coming after the school year). But he had to he said. "The attitude out here is just back, but it takes time when you've fly back yesterday to play in his super, and that makes it a lot ea~icr been away from it." team's bookstore game last evening. to teach new things." Kiel echoed those sentiments. "It 
All four of the leading candidates just takes time, especially when for the quarterback slot saw action you're trying to learn a whole new 'New Kids' fall Saturday. Freshman Scott Grooms offense. We just have to work out and senior Grag Knafelc split time our timing." with the second offense. Knafelc hit Koegel led the No. 1 unit on the on one oftwo passes for seven yards day's only scoring drive -a 9-play, 
Faust caps off big weekend 

and picked up 18 yards on the 65-yard march. Split end Mike ground on two carries. Boushka and wingback Tim Tripp 
Grooms had his troubles as he saw had key receptions during the drive By FRANK LaGROTIA considerable pressure from the for 12 and 1 I yards, respectively. and SKIP DESJARDIN defensive front of the No. 1 unit. He Tailback Phil Carter, the leading Sports Writers completed two ofhis seven attempts ground-gainer on the afternoon with for eight yards, threw an intercep· 68 on 1 5 carries, picked up 36 yards "This was definitely one of the tion which linebacker Mark Zavag· during the scoring drive on two best weekends in the 10-year history nin returned 35 yards, and lost 23 carries including the 1 5-yard of Bookstore Basketball," panted ================================Rob Simari immediately after his 
team, Brooke Shields.. dropped a tough one to The Five-footers, 21­
Irish runners race 
18. "Having Coach Faust play was one of those 'moments' that those who saw won't soon forget."
tofifth-placefinish 
Faust's entry in the tournament, The New Kids on the Block, took on JJ's Team Wants to Play Gerry By MATI HUFFMAN standing performances. Aragon won Faust's Team in the First Round, in Sports Writer the mile which has come to be com· front of one of the largest crowds monplace. But in the half-mile the ever to see a basketball game behind 
For the second consecutive year senior co-captain missed first place the bookstore. Nearly 1,000 people Notre Dame's track team turned in a by :00.02 seconds. saw J.].'s Team... send The New strong performance this weekend at The versatile Paul Doyle came up Kids... to an early exit from the the Arkansas State Relays in jone!l· with the only other first place finish. tournament, 21·13. 
boro, Ark. The Irish finished fifth in Doyle, with a strong tail-wind, Oliver Franklin paced the winners the prestigous 15-team field. Last hurled the javelin 194 feet for the with 10 points on 26 attempts but it year Notre Dame tied for first in the win. That might have been longer was the spirited play ofFaust and his meet with the host Indians. without the wind or if he were teammates, ticket manager Steve Or­''This was by far the best meet we throwing the other way. A javelin, sini, and assistant coaches Greg have run in this year," remarked like an airplane taking off, travels Blache, Tom Lichtenberg and Jim coach joe Piant:."It wao; also the best with less resistance when moving Higgins that drew the partisan sup· mec:t that Arkansas has had. There against the wind. So much for port of the crowd. Orsini, returning were: better teams and more quality physics. Doyle also placed in the dis­to Bookstore after a three-year ab­
runners there than I've ever seen in cus. sence, picked up right where he left any previous year.'' off in 1978. He connected on only
"I thought that Pat Sullivan ran One of the pre-meet favorites, very well in the 5000 and Brian 
4-of-23 shots in a typical display of 
the·team 
player in 
l victory over Proud 
the 4 Uncles. As a result; Bookstore Basketball Commis• sloner Rob Simari has announced that the game's outcome be reversed, and Strappamasquon be eliminated from the tourna· merit. "It's unfortunate that things like this happen,'' Simiui said; "I appreciate pamasquon's honesty.''·. Father;:. now advances thifdround against ~e1ruin~n1:ue. 
TJ;lom Englert and Stan Wilcox combined for 13 points to lead fifth­see~ed W. Pace to a 21-9 drubbing of Worst Team in the Tournament. Englert was 7-of-14, and Wilcox was accurate on six-of-seven. Cal Cag­niniihit 5-of-I 9 for the losers. 
Tj1e Return of the Nutmeggers def~ated Honk Haley and the Com­ets, :21-12, despite Mike Radi~an's 8­
1 . ­
of-18 performance for the Comets. Fr. Edward "Monk" Malloy, the only person to play in all 10 Bookstore tournaments was a surprising 0-of­11 while John Buzdid had eight and Mark Meyer, seven, for the Nutmeg­gers. 
On Saturday, the tournament's number-one seed, Jackson Five, defeated TR... , 21-13. Tim Koegel and Tony Anderson each had six for the winners while AI Pinado's 6-of­1 1 was tops for the losers. 
Balanced scoring was the key to Gimme Hett's 23-21 overtime win over Born to Run. Dave Hett had six and Ricky Thomas, four for the win­ners while Steve Wezdenko and Tom Lange each had seven for Born to Run. 
"All in all the tournament is run­
ning very well," commented a worn 
out Simari after last night's action. 
"Games arc being played on time 
with very few problems.'' 
Simari again reminded that un­sportsmanlike conduct, including any kind of physical or verbal abuse of a player or scorekeeper, will not be tolerated. Simari requested that scorekeepers be aware of this and take appropriate action when war­rented. 
I
Southern Illinois-Carbondale, won Maculiffe competed well in the "Steelton" shooting that he mas­by a wide margin. The host team was triple jump. Jim Moyar also did a tered back home in Hummelstown, a distant second and Southeast Mis­good job in the mile," commented 
Former boxing champ
Pa. 
o;ouri State finished third. Higgins and Blache each scored
Pian e. "Southrn Illinois has an e;xcellent three points, Lichtenberg had two 
In addition to these placers were
team," remarked Piane. "They were and Faust connected on only 1-of-18 
],oe Louis dies at 66 
john Filosa in th mile Tim Macauley
the Missouri Valley Conference in­shots, a 25-footer from beyond the in the half-mile and Jacques Eady in 
door champions this year. They real­top ofthe key. LAS VEGAS, Nev. ( AP) -Former 10:05 a.m. PST the high jump.
ly put on a good demonstration. I "All in all it was great for the heavyweight boxing champion Joe He had been ill for quite some 
think even if we had combinc:d our "I was really impressed with tournament to have Coach Faust Louis, who held the title for 12 years time. He had been hospitalized score and Arkansas State's, they still Jacques. He ran well in the 200 and play," repeated Simari. Faust's ap­and ranked as one of history's before. He had had a stroke and dif­would have won.'' on two relay teams, and he didn't pearance, which ran from 6:50 to 8 greatest fighters, died yesterday af. ferent things," said Ms. Brown. 
While South Bend was enjoying slow up a bit," praised the sixth year p.m. drew coverage from the local ter being admitted to Desert Springs She said that Louis' wife Martha thunderstorms, it was a balmy 80 head coach. newspapers and television stations. Hospital here. He was 66. and some immediate family mem­degrees in Arkansas. But the wind Terron Wright of Memphis State Unfortunately, all ofThe New Kids... "He was in a cardiac arrest state bers we.r_e with him when he died. was so·strong that the weather has to was named the outstanding perfor­except Orsini were too out ofbreath when he arrived," said nursing su­In 71 fights as a professional after he listed as a factor which hindered mer of the meet. Wright, who holds to make any comment. Orsini, pervisor Shirley Brown. "They did he graduated from the Golden 
all performances. the world record in the 300 meters, however, was busy arguing with the • everything they could to revive Gloves in Detroit, the Brown Bomb­Chuck Aragon again led the Irish, ran a :10.1 in the 100 and a :20.2 in scorekeeper over his shooting per-' him.'' er scored 54 knockouts in posting a though there were a number ofout· the 200 to win both events. centage. 68-3 record.
Ms. Brown said Louis died at 
