-----~---· 
-------------~--~--~---~­
, , , 'Getting Out ' -page 8 
an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and saint mary's THURSDAY, OCTOBER 1, 1981 
Out West 

Reagan opts to scatter missiles 
Performing the duty ofllniversizy liaison, this student acts as the guide to one ofthe many campus tours which are scheduled each day. (Photo byjohn Macor) 
Force bases in North Dakota, South Dakota, Montana and Wyoming. Four hundred of those arc large enough to accommodate tht• MX and would require little moditka­tion. 
Of the -400, I 50 are controlkd hy Grand Forks Air force Base in North Dakota, 50 hy Maelstrom AfB in Montana and .200 by Francis E. War­ren AfB in Wyoming. 
Delaying a decision on where to deploy the MX wold not necessarily set back the 1986 period when the t1rst of the missiles is scheduled to be in operation, according to an Air Force spokesman, Lt. Mike Terrill. 
In fact, Terrill said, the Air force does not expect environmental im­pact statements on all the areas un­du consideration -Nevada, Utah, Texas and New Mexico -to be completed until next month at the earlit·st. 
"We had not planned on making 
the selection on the deployment 
area until late November or early 
December," he said. 
, But a delay ofseveral months past Dn-cmher could set back the MX schedule because of problems with further environmental studies and land acquisition," Terrill said. "You run into a prohkm with land withdrawal," Terrill added. 
Reagan is expected to go ahead with plans to manufacture the B-I bomber, was rejected by then­President Jimmy Carter, and to develop Stealth bombers able to elude enemy radar, the source said. Air defenses of the U.S. continental also would he srrengthencd. 
Aides to several members and committees of Congress concerned with the MX project said they were having difficulty nailing down the 
See MISSILES, page 4 
WASHINGTON (AP)-Presidem 
Reagan has decided to scatter I00 
MX missiles among I 000 shdters in 
the \X'est and to build the B-1 bomb­
er while a more advanced, radar­
eluding Stealth aircraft is developed, 
sources said yesterday. 
A key Senate source, asking anonymity, said he understands Reagan has not settled on which states will house the new generation of nuclear missiles. The possibilities include shuttling them, shell-game 
fashion, on desert land in Nevada and possibly Utah, or basing some in existing Minuteman missile silos in other states. 
The president is to announce those multibillion-dollar decisions tomorrow as he discloses plans to modernize the nation's strate~ic forces, which he contends have fal­len dangt·rously behind those of tht· Soviet Union. 
One thousand vertical Minuteman silos are buried on Air 

Postal Service hikes first-class stamp rate 
WASHINGTON(AP)-The Post­al Service defied its rate-making watchdog yesterday and raised the cost ofa first-class stamp to .20 cents, effective Nov. I. Two minutes after it was announced, the move was challenged in court. 
The two-cent increase will be the 
Pt>stal Service's first that has not 
been approved by the Postal Rate 
Commission, which three times 
rejected requests for a .20-cent rate. 
The new price represents a .2 5 percent increase in first-class mail rates this year and a 233 pt·rcent in­crease since 1971, when a letter could be mailed for a nickel and a 

penny. 
Rohert L. Hardesty, chairman of the Postal Service Board, defended the increase as "reasonable, equi-
Missionary or CIA? 

Students suffer mistaken identity 
By DONNA ANDERSON 
Assoctatetl Press Writer 
SALT lAKE CITY (AP) -Traveling in pairs, dad in 
distinctive white shirts and black ties and wearing their 
hair dose-cropped, young Mormon missionaries 
abroad are hcing mistaken for CIA oftkers. 
"I was accused of being CIA," said Floyd Rose, a for­
mer missionary in Spain who is now a student at church­
owned Brigham Young University. "We were different than most Americans and some of the people really believed it." Itt· said he was asked about the CIA at least onct· t·vcry two weeks. 
"People wert· always asking LIS if we were CIA," agreed Mike McQuain, ;moth­t·r BYll student TH URSOA Y ti:&~:~~~::::::::iliMili~1~:1: who did his missionary work 

i~ml1r~mrfO CUS 
in France. "People would ask us at doors and yell 'CIA' at LIS as we went by." 
_kif Turley said the CIA label was a standing joke among missionaries in Peru. For laughs, he said, some of them would tease the Peruvians by whipping oft' a shoe and speaking into it. or do the same with a buzzing digi­tal watch. 
The< :hurch ofjesus <:hrist of Latter-day Saints, which ha1> more than .)0,000 missionaries worldwide, denies any connt·ction tth the< :lA. But the confusion b under· standahlc -the CIA dol'S some of its most successful recruiting in predominantly Mormon Utah. 
This summt'f, tht· CIA condut"tt'd an cxpnimt·nutl radio advertising cunpaign in lltah. Cl1arlcs Jackson. till' CIA's t:hid recruiting omen, said "well on-r 100 applicants n·spondl'll to the radio spots." 
Jackson ~aid the agency b looking for potential over­.st·as case ollkers. intdligenn: analysts. scil-ntists and t·omput·r specialists. the latter two cttegorics difficult to recruit because ofcompetition from industrv. 
··t 'tah i~ ont· of our good sources," said lknver CIA 
recruiter _lack llanst·n, now in Provo to recruit at BY( I, 
whose student newspaper -the Daily Universe -is 
currently running CIA job advertisements. 
"A lot ofpeople here have language or foreign culture 
experience," he said. "That's what we look for." 
Many young Mormon men spend two years proselyt­
ing for the church. Those sent to foreign missions 
return with foreign language ability and knowledge of 
specific countries. BYlJ records indicate that about 
6,700 people in its 26,000-mcmhcr student body are 
former missionaries. 
"We've never had any trouble placing anyone who 
has applied to the CIA," said Dr. Gary Williams, head of 
the BYU Asian Studies Department. "Every year, they 
take almost anybody who applies." 
Former Mormon missionaries have the three 
qualities the CIA wants: foreign language ability, train­
ing in a foreign culture and former residence in a 
foreign country, Williams said. 
In addition, he said, "our Mormon culture has always 
been more supportive of the government than 
American culture as a whole." 
In the late 1960s and the 1970s, Williams said, many universities took a negative view of the CIA and other government agencies and discouraged students from accepting their jobs. Throughout those turbulent times, however, the Mormon Church continued to encourage government service. he added. 
Williams said a sense of conformity and .respect for authority which Mormons learn as missionaries, along with their abstinence from drugs or alcohol, may also appeal to the CIA. 
But he also said that many former BYU students who land jobs with the CIA become disillusioned and leave after about a year. They tlnd they're SLUck in a Washing­ton office translating newspaper articles when they had hopt·d to go overseas. 
The most promint·nt exampk of a former Mormon missionary who later worked for the CIA -but didn't much like it -is Elder Neal Maxwell. a member of the church's governing Council of the Twelve Apostles. \laxwell said he work~·d for the CIA in \Va1>hin~ton for 
See CIA, page 5 
table and fiscally responsible." 
Since rates were increased from 
I 5 cents to 18 cents in March, the 
Postal Service has lost almost S I .26 
million, he said. 
Without the higher rates, the Post­al Service would have had to borrow money to meet its costs, Hardesty said. He said this "would have been fiscally irresponsible." 
Postmaster General William F. Bolger said the new rate is high enough to avoid another incrt·ase for at least two years. Such stability is important to large users who must know postal costs before deciding on mass mailing, he said. 
The National Association of Greeting Card Publishers filed a suit challenging the legality of the in­crease at I0: 19 a.m., two minutes af­ter it was announced. 
The suit in the U.S. Court of 
Appeals contends the increase is dis­
criminatory because it applies to 
some classes of mail while some-
See STAMP, page 4 

Crash helmet saves life ofND law student 
By LYNNE DALEY 
Executive News Editor 
Third-yt•ar law student Edward McNally is alive today thanks, he says, to a combination of the "luck o' the Irish" and a hit of divine providence. 
McNally, 25, is temporarily confined to a wheelchair as the result of a two-car accident Sept. 20 ncar Union City, Mich., on Michigan Interstate 60 as he was returning to South Bend from the ND-Michigan football game. 
Michigan state police said that McNally was driving west on M-60 when his car was hit ht·ad-on hy a car driven by Monica Szymanski, .2.2, of Grosse Point, Mich. According to Sgt. De raid Saltzgaver, the Szymanski vehicle swerved to avoid the car in front of McNally, which was making a lcfthand turn. 
:vtomt·nts before the accident, McNally says, he had stopped his MGB convertible -"a tiny, link car" -because he was cold. "It was too nice t a day to put up the top," he says, "so I put on the motorcydc crash helmet I had in tht· trunk, just to stop the wind from whistling by my cars." 
On impact, :vtcNally, who was not wearing a seatbelt, wt•nt through tht· windshield at what he says police told him was a rate of 120 miles an hour. 
"Terry Paul (of the Michigan state police) said in 30 years he's never seen an automobile passenger wearing a helmet," McNally says. "He said that without it I certainly would have been dead." 
McNaly was taken to Coldwater (Mich.) Community Hospital and later moved to Chicago's Rush­Presbyterian St. Luke's Medical Cen­ter, wht·re he was trt·ated for a badly broken ankle, a collapsed lung and bruises. 
The Northbrook, Ill.. native returned to South Bend Monday and began attending classes Tuesd:ty. 
"Evt·ryone at Norc Dame has been just great," he says. 
Nt·gotiating inter-class travel will he "tricky," he admits, but the law school, as the National Center for l.aw for the Handicapped, has "lots of ramps." 
The inconvenknces art· all st·con­dary to McNally, however, who says he's "so happy" to lw hack. "I don't considt·r that this (the whedchair) is had,"' he says. ,·'I'm so incredibly lucky to be alive." 




News Brie/§ 
Thursday, October 1, 1981 -page 2 
by The Observer and The Associated Press 
The federal govein.ment'S financial "New Year" 
begins today but there's no cause to celebrate in Indiana, where 
Reagan budget cuts will mean millions less for Hoosiers. State 
Budget Director Judith G. Palmer said Indiana will lose 525 million 
in federal funds just in the consolidation of57 categorical grants into 
nine big block grants. The Department of Highways was in line for 
Sl05 million in federal'money, said department director Gene K. 
Hallock, but that was before President Reagan's plan for another 12 
percent cut. That would bring the department down another $12.6 million to S92.4 million. The Department of Puplic Welfare isn't actually losing any money because the federal government pays for welfare by reimbursing the state. But Welfare Department spokes­man Les Green says tighteni~g the eligibility standards for food stamps, aid to families with dependent children and Medicaid will result in a savings of up to S29 million a year. -AP 

After a 3 yearcourt battle with his employers, a 35-year­oldJapanese cab driver won the right yesterday to wear a mustache, and was awarded the equivalent of 56,500 in compensation, Japanese newspapers reported. The out-of-court settlement ended a case filed against the Eastern Airport Motors Co. of Tokyo by Yos­hifusa Takeishi, who claimed he was not being paid by his employers because he wouldn't shave his mustache. As part of the agreement, however, Takeishi will retire on Dec. 31. A company spokesman said the firm still frowns on unshaven faces and hopes "to work out a contract with our union forbidding drivers from sporting mous­
taches while on duty." -AP 
Two priestsand four laymen in Czechoslovakia have been sentenced to prison terms from I 0 months tot three years for "illegal trade" in religious literature, the Austrian Catholic news agency Kathpress reported yesterday. Foreign reporters and observers were not permitted to attend the two-day trial at Olomouc in Moravia. The trial was prompted by the discovery by authorities of a secret printing shop for religious writings, Kathpress said. It said that those sentenced Tuesday included a jesuit priest, the Rev. Frantisek Uzna, 40; parish priest Rudolf Smahel, 31, and laymen Josef Adamek, 67; jan Krumpholc, 54; jan Odstroil, 67 and josef Fleck, 61. Lizna and Adamek are signers ofthe Charter 77 human rights manifesto. -AP 
Two Baltimore, Md., men have been sentenced to six years in prison for an apparently racially motivated attack on a black man who lost an eye in the assault. Carl Michael Bull, 19, and Albert Wilson Sheckells, 18, pleaded guilty Tuesday to assaulting 42-year-old Rufus ~now on Sept. 7, 1980. The incident occurred in the Hampden section of Baltimore, where Snow was lost when he was confronted by the youths. In july, a third man, Dennis Layman, 19, received an identical sentence after pleading guilty to the same charge. -AP 
Forty South Dade County, Fla., growers have filed a :SSOO million class action lawsuit here, charging that their crops were ruined because federal, state and local water agencies failed to drain water off their land. The growers claim that the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, the state of Florida, the South Florida Water Management District and Dade County kept drainage canals closed and wen: "grossly negligent." More than 20 inches of rain flooded portions of the south Dade area when Tropical storm Dennis passed over south Florida in mid-August. And a storm last week dumped another 1 1 inches ofrain on still-flooded parts of the area. -AP 
The principal of Valparaiso. Ind., High School will recommend expulsion this week for two students who burned a cross during a football game with a Gary high school. The two uni­dentified male students burned the cross in view of about 2,000 people during the game with Gary Roosevelt High School. The Gary school has a predominantly black population. Valparaiso has one black among its 1,316 students. Valparaiso school administrators said Tuesday they consider the matter an "unfortunate prank" rather than a serious racial incident. Spokesman for Gary Roosevelt agreed the incident was "isolated." -AP 
Indiana residents want tougher laws[() curb the sale ofalcohol to minors, the state legislature's Alcoholic Beverage Study Committee learned yesterday at the first oftwo public field hearings. The 16-member committee, which is part ofthe General Assembly's Alcoholic Beverage Commission, was in Richmond to get citizen input on about 18 of 106 issues the committee has addressed in the past three months, said Rep. Marlin K. McDaniel, R-Richmond. McDaniel, the comittee chairman, said the second field session will be Oct. 7 in Lafayette. After that, the committee will return to the statehouse for voting sessions on Oct. 14 and 21. joyce Lammott, who described herself as a non-drinking mother from East German­town, told the legislators she was frustrated with state laws that are too lenient toward teen-age drinking. "I would estimate that 75 per­cent of the 15-, 16-and 17-year-olds around here are drinking," she said. "I would say alcohol is a bigger problem than drugs."-AP 
Mostly cloudy.windy and cooler today with a chance of showers in the morning. High in the upper 50s to low 60s. Clearing and very cool tonight. Low from the upper 30s to low 40s. Partly sunny and continued cool tomorrow. High from the upper 50s to low 60s. -AP 

Polish labor leader Lech Walesea, celebrating his thirty-eighth birthday, is carried into a conference hall by shipyard w~rkers in Gdansk, Poland. The workers were attending the second round of the Solidarity Union Congress. 
PRES/DhNTIAL NOMINATION: Norman Braman, 48, is President Reagan's 
AP Ph 

nomination for the head of the Immigration 
oto 

and Naturalization Service. Braman is from Miami. 

File 
MXMISSILE: 
This is an artist's cut-away drawing of theMX missile in flight. The missile weighs approximately 96 tons, has a 92 inch diameter, and is 71 feet long. See related 


story on page one. 


Design Editor........... ..... Monica Gugle Desixn Assistants ............. Randy Rentner l.flyout Staff.. ........ llruce Oakley 7)•pese/ler......... . ......................... Mike jans News Editor. . ................. Kclli flint Copy Hditors ... Mary Agnes Carey Lynne Daley 
Tom Melsheimcr Features Layout ............. Anthony W'alton Sports Copy Editor. ....... Dave Dziedzic Typist. ....... Deirdre Murphy Systems Control ................... llruce Oakley ND Day Editor ... ................)elf Monaghan ~MC Day Editor.......................Cece llaliles Ad Design ................ ........ Fran, Mary, Mark Pbotoxrapher. . ............... John ·sober 
and responsible' Macor 
Guest Appearances........ John "Peckinpah" McGrath 
Gremlins and faerie~ 
Robin Goodfellow 'What fools these mortals be.' 
The Observer (USPS 598 920) is published Monday through Fnday and on . home football Saturdays. except dunng exam and vacat1on periods. The Observer is published by the students of Notre Dame and Saint Mary·s Col­lege. Subscriptions may be purchased 
for $25 per year ($15 per semester) by writing The Observer. P 0. Box Q. Notre Dame. lnd1ana 46556. 
The Observer is a member of The Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
Second class postage paid at Notre 
Dame. lnd1ana 46556. 


Canadian Prime Minister Pierre Trudeau rides a bicycle as he tours the Bulguksa Temple in Kyongju, near Seoul, South Korea. Trudeau is now spending three days in Australia. 
:~:r:=::;:::::;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:::;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:::::;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:::;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:~;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;~~: 
:l:l' American University I!j~j


I'WashingtonI~
II Se ter 1:1 
I Spc;ng l9B2 r 
Separate programs in 
*American Politics 
*Criminal Justice 
*Urban Affairs 
*Economic Policy 
*Arts and Humanities 
*Foreign Policy 
*Journalism 
The American University is an equal opportunity/ affirmative action Programs lnclude *Seminars with decision makers *Internships on Capitol Hill, in government 
agencies and with public interest groups *Research with guidance by University professors 
*Specializ«l courses in a wide variety of disciplines 
*Campus housing if desir~d For further information, contact: Dr. David C. Brown, Executive Director Washington Semester Programs The American University 

The Observer Thursday, October i, 1981 -page 3 

Middle East 
Congress negotiates peace force 
WASIIINGTON (AP) -House worked out in time. The legislation peacekeeping force was a relatively and St·natc negotiators agreed yes­is designed to provide funding for minor section of the bill, but Rep. terday to spend S 12'; million to help government programs through Nov. Clarence Long. D-Mo., sparked a opt·ratt· a Middle East pt·acekeeping 20, hy which time Congress is ex­lively debate when he said that force in the Sinai Desert, hut harrell pectcd to have completcd work on granting the Reagan administration's 
stationing any American troops most or all of the I 3 regular ap­request for S12'; million without thae without prior approval of propriations hills. restictions would be a ''financial <:ongrcss. Also to he resolved were disagree­GulfofTonkjn Resolution." 
The agreement came as ments over proVISions in the The Tonkin Gulf resolution was lawmakt·rs worked on a Senate-passed bill to give memhers used frequently by President Lyn­multihillion-dollar stopgap spend­of Congress a liberalized tax break, don B. Johnson to justil)' for ing hill to keep the government run­iift the S2';,000 limit on outside American participation in the Viet­ning after midnight, the heginning of income senators may carn from nam War even though Congress the new fiscal >car. speeches, and raise thc pay cap never voted a formal declaration of 
The llousc and Senatc passcd dif­affecting about 46,000 high-ranking war. ferent versions of thc measure, and federal workers from sc;o, 112 to congrcssional leadcrs expressed !';7500. Sen. Robert Kasten. R-Wis., said, hopt· that a compromisc could he The provision relating to the Sinai "the process of peace in the Middle 
East is more important than the process of a committee referral" in Congress.
M~dical pro~ession 
The money represents the llnited States' share of financing the 
peacekeeping force that will 
monitor Israeli withdrawal from By DAVE GROTE in 190 I hrought it much more most of the Sinai Peninsula in ac­Neu•s Staff power. he said, as it passed more cordance with the Camp David ac­
stringent liscncing laws and educa­cords betwC:'en the Jewish State and 
The history oftht: American medi­tional requirements. By 1930 medi­.Egypt. cal profession is punctuated by the cal schools required a bachelor's low reputation it enjoyed in the mid-degree for acceptance and included The United States, Israel and 19th ccntury and its subsequent heavy clinical laboratory training in Egypt have agreed to have the dimh IQ prominancc, ohscrvcd Dr. their programs. peacekeeping force in the Sinai by Ronald L. Numbers, chairman of the March 20, 1982, prior to the department of the history of The elevated standards of medical scheduled Israeli withdraw( from mt·dicine at the University of Wis­schools and their increased quality the area on April 25, 1982. consin at Madison. of education brought the profession The force is slated to consist of 
Dr. Numhers, a puhlishcd author credibility. By 19';0 the profession about 2, 500 personnel, including an in his fidd, said the medical profes­had achieved the prominence it en­American contingent of about sion was looked upon as "merely a joys today, Dr. Numbers said. 1,200. tradt·" in the 1800s when he spoke "Medical education differs from that 


enJoys prom1nence 
This young Purdue fan had no qualms last weekend about
Tuesday night to a crowd of about of other professions in that even a Under Long's prodding, the House 
expressing his feelings for the Irish. Gerry Faust and his gridders
80 at the Center for Continuing graduate of the worst medical and Senate· negotiators agreed that 
have high hopesfor the game this Saturday against Michigan State.
Education. He was the second of school can be considered com­in voting the funds, it would specify 
(Photo byjohn Macor)
den·n speakers in the "Professions petent, whereas there can be very that no troops would be allowed in in American History" lecture series good and very bad lawyers," he the area without "prior authoriza­sponsored by the history depart­noted. tion hy Congress." 
i·-ruVEJiCifY-RECoiffis--1 
mt·nt. 
I Northern Indiana's Largest Selection of Albums &Tapes.
IIis address was titled "Medicine: ~----------------~ I the development ofa profession." t t 1 Why pay more any place else? I
The ffiichoel Stanley Bond
In the late 1700s and early 1800s, 
t t I $1 00 OFF 'any regul~r ~ecord or tope with ad.
tht• medical profession in Amerfca 
I L1m1t 1 per person 
was highly regarded. Dr. Numhers Expires Oct. 26 ,1981 
t t 
said. Many state legislatures awanh:d special privileges to doc­t I 50970 • US 31 North • eOpen till 10 every night II 
Thurs, Oct. 8 Valparaiso Univ. t 
tors which included legislation . t 13 miles North of Campus e ND/SMC checks cashed
t
allowing the profession to run its Hilltop Gymnasium lnext to Al's Supermarket up to $20 over
8:00pm t 

own licensing boards. t purchase amount By 18.30, however, the medical 277-4242 eRecord Crates available ..
profession began to decline in t t

"The bond tho t broke 
prestige, he said, due mainly to 
t t 
lowered professional standards. Many less-than-qualified medical tLed Zeppelin's ottenonce record" t schools -with no admission re­
t

quirements or clinical instuction -t graduated a flood of incompetent 
t t 
doctors. "Too often one's ability to pay tuition rather than his ability in t t medicine determined whether he 
all seats reserved J7.50 t
would get his diploma," Dr. Num­t berssaid. 
t t 
At this time, tht· rise of a number of well-received sectarian groups t tickets at Student Union & t promoting the idea of self-healing 
t t 
led to a radical reversal in legisla­St. mary's Activities Office tion. States began to repeal laws 
t t 
giving doctors special practicing privileges so that by 18';0 only two states had laws restricting the practice of medicine. The practices of these various sects subjected the profession to ridicule, Dr. Numbers stated. 
In 1847. in response to this chal­lenge to medical professionalism, tht· American Medical Association was formed. "Its first action," said Dr. Numbers. "was to draw up a 
code ofethics that not only outlined a doctor's duty towards his patients and peers but also the patient's duty tYwards doctors." 
This organization immediately pushnl for Latin, Greek, writing skills, and geometry as prerequisites for becoming a doctor. Also, it ex­tt·nded the length of the medical curriculum to three yt·ars. 
Evt·ntually. Dr. :"'umbers noted. 
the A.M.A. was able to bring about 
tlw re-establisment of lisccncing 
hoards and stall" rq~ulations that re­
quirt•d a hachclor's tlt-grt·e from an 
atTrnlitt·d schooL Many poor 
s{·hools disappeart·d as educational 
requirements tightened. 
The re-organization of tht· A.:\I.A. 

• I I
c
• need a study break? relax at the NAZZ 
tonight : try out your hidden talents! open stage 9:00-11:00 
tomorrow: A Nazz Favorite the Mark Davis Show with a special guest Dan Brahier 9 :00-? 





~ J&ir4arb's 
1iA1HR 1Jf_@,1J~N& Open 6 days a wee~,;_

Just 
417 DIXIEWAY~-


North 
across from Wend_y~ ~~.

of 
Campus 277-0734 
personalized Hair DesiKns 


~ -~ -~-~---~--~ 
-----~-------------------­
The Observer Thursday, October 1, 1981 -page 4 
• • • Missiles 



Yesterday in the architecture building was characterized by a party throt~•n by the majors who inhabit that stru£.·ture. (Photo by john Macor) 
continuedfrom page I 
president's plans. 
"We've been up a good part ofthe 

night and this morning" trying to 
confirm various news reports, said 
Mary Lou Cooper, an assistant to 
Rep. jim Santini, D-Nev. 
Rep. Byron Dorgan, D-N.D., com­

plained that he, too, was rebuffed hy 
White House officials. 
Dorgan said he does not think using the Minuteman shelters for the new missiles made much sense since the administration's contends that the silos would be sitting ducks for destruction in a Soviet attack and therefore require a mobile system. 
A l 00-missik MX system would he a cut-down version of the now-
discarded plan by Carter to rotate be patient until the official word 200 missiles among 4,600 shelters in tomorrow. Nevada and Utah. "I've said from the beginning if 
The Carter plan had drawn strong people would only wait until the opposition from environmentalists, president has made his decision and ranchers and the influential Mor-made his announcement we'd all get mon Church in those states, and the it accurate," Weinberger said on prospect ofa smaller version has not ABC-TV's "Good Morning, America" mollified many of the critics. program. 
Nevada Gov. Robert List, for in-""But nobody seems to want to be stance, said in an intervie..w on NBC-in favor of accuracy. Everybody TV's "Today" show yesterday: "We seems to want to be there t1rst. And don't think it makes good sense as a result a very substantial amount militarily. We feel very dearly it ofconfusion has been created." would just turn our landscape and lifestyle upside-down." 
Defense Secretary Caspar W. Weinberger, noting conflicting reports about Reagan's decision, 
Stamp

urged the news media and others to 

• 
• 
•
• 
•
•+ -$· 

LITE BEER FROM MILLER. 
MRYTHING YOU ALWAYS WANTED ~
• 

IN ABEER. AND LESS. 
•
• 

CAPER TO PAPER 
O.K., you've got your characters, loca­tions, and dames lined up. Now comes the good part: Putting your caper to paper. There's no mystery to it. As long as you write the ending first, the rest will follow. Write short, terse, to-the-point sentences. Be as clear as possible. And make sure you've got the right stuff around for when you get thristy. After all, writing is pretty thirsty work. 
I suggest a couple of mugs of Lite Beer-who ever heard of a caper that didn't involve a couple of mugs? 
Why Lite Beer? It's a lot like me and my books-great taste, less filling (some people can't get their fill of my books), and always good to spend time with. 
At any rate, follow my advice and, who knows-you might turn out a heck of a story. Or you might turn out to be a heck of a Lite Beer drinker. 

continuedfrom page 1 
thers are being decreased or kft the same. 
"I can't believe they are doing this right before Christmas," said Norm Halladav, the association's executive directo~. "Th<;ir own studies show that the reason people send fewer Christmas cards is increasing postal rates." 
The Postal Service and the rate commtsston • generally have cooperated in the past. At times, the commission even has been accused of being a "rubber stamp," approv­ing anything the Postal Service wanted. 
But they have been at odds thb year, with the commission saying the mail agency could break even under the rates it has and the Postal Service claiming such a feat was im­possible. 
Last week, the commission said 
the Postal Service charges less than 
it should for second-and third-clas~ 
mail. It also said the Postal Service'~ 
accounting procedures understate 
the effect of congressional ap­
propriations on its income. 
Consumer advocate Ralph Nader 
said the unilateral increase by the 
Postal Service "shows that it 
operates totally without oversight 
from any government agency and 
without respect for the facts or the 
rights of the mailing public.·· 
The :W-cent rate will apply to the 
t1rst OldlCC of first-class letter~. The 
rate ti>r additional ounce~ will stay at 
the current I -:r cenb. but the 
postcard ratt· will go from I 2 to I~ 
cents. 
Boston Club 
schedules 

sign-ups 
Signups for the Boston Bus for ()c­tober break will take place Monday, October 'i, in the LaFortune hall­room. The bus leaves friday. Oc­tober !6, and returns for the USC gamt:. 
Students should bring SI I0 for round trip. Contact Mike ( HH'i4) or Jim ( 1S2H) if there arc any 4ues­tions. 

NEEDLES 

&-PINS 
•
Alterations •Mending

•Custom 
Sewing


{ZIPPERS REI'LACED) 
Phyllis Garice 
~Yj 607_Geyer Ave ~~ Mtshawaka 


/ ~~ 259-7793 

CALL FOR APPOIWTMENT 

t.... 
' 

The Observer Thursday, October 1, 1981 -page 5 
Taiwan reunification 







China offers autonomy 

PEKING (AP) -China offered Taiwan reunit1cation terms yeste::r­day that for the t1rst time mention letting Taiwan leaders join in run­ning the Communist government while ket:ping control oftheir island nation's local afi·air. 
The offer, madt· on the eve of Na­tional Day marking the 32nd an· niversary of Communist rule, was eonLaint:d in an interview with Mar­sahl Ye Jianying, the country's top parliamentarian and the equvilant of head ofstate. 
A spokesman for the Nationalist Chinese government, which tied to Taiwan in 1949 aftt·r losing tht: mainland to tht: Communists, said Ye's offer contained nothing new and was intended to subjugate the people on Taiwan under Com­

munist rule. 
"Tht· only way to bring about na­tional reunitkation is to abandon the Communist system," said spokesman Dr. James Soong. 
While a high·ranking Chinese army officer told reporters that the purpos~· of Peking's overture was to reduce fears of the mainland among 
peopil'  on  Ta!wan,  Wt:stern  
diplomats  saw it  as  aimed  at  the  
United States.  

The diplomats, who asked not to be named, said one aim appeared to he to make it harder for President Rt:agan to justify arms sales to Taiwan, and to prepare tht: Chinese public for worsened lJ.S.-China rela­tions if the sales go through. 
The sense of urgency in tht: latest proposal, the diplomats suggested, resulted from tht· desire to remove the: Taiwan issue as a thorn in ll.S.­China relations. 
Another goal of the reunification campaign, observers say, is to polish the tarnished reputation ofthe Com­munist Party, which suffered greatly during the 1966-76 purges of the Cultural Revolution. 
Ye's proposal follows numerous offers to Taiwan for unification. Run­ning through all of China's state­ments on Taiwan has been that Chin 
'The only way to bring about national reunifica­
tion is to abandon the Communist system. ' 
is adopting a reasonable, tlt:xible position while it is the leaders on Taiwan who have been blocking a peaceful solution. 
China formerly talked of 
"liberating" Taiwan by force, but 
now  it  says  it  prefers  peaceful  
means.  
While  various  parts  of  the  

proposal had been revealed before, it was the first time that China offi­cially offered government positions to Taiwan leaders. 
The kind of posts Taiwan officials could have in the central govern­ment would be subject to negotia­tion, the Chinese officer who brief reporters said. 
In his interview with the ofikial Xinhua news agency, Ye said, "People in authorily and representa­tive personages of various circles in Taiwan may take up posts of leader­ship in national political bodies and participate in running the state.'' 

North Dining Hall situation improves 
ByJIM PLAMONDON 
News Staff 
The long lines that frustrated many hungry Notre Dame students at the North Dining Hall during the 
first few weeks of classes have ended, said john Garrity, manager of the hall. 
Last we::ek many students com­plained of wailing up to 20 minutt:s before:: getting served, e::specially at 
II:15 a.m. when many classes art: lt:t out simultane::ously. Garrity, howeve::r, has calculatt:d the waiting pt:riod to be only eight minutes. 
Robert Robinson, dirt:ctor offood servict:s, said he believes part of the problem is cause::d by the lack of workers during the:: busy hours. Many employet:s have classes during that time period and it is not fe::asible to have tht:m work tilr only a few minutes, he said. 
"The opt:ning of Pasquerilla and St. Ed's have certainly contributed to the problem," Robinson said. 
One answer to the problem, Robinson proposed, would be a return to eating at certain assigned dining halls. 
But Garrity insisted that this solu­tion is not logical. "It would bt: a great inconvenience to the stu­dents," he said, "if they were forced to walk all the way to the:: South Dining Hall while their classes were right by the North Dining Hall." 
He said that students should realize:: what times are busy and, when possible, avoid them. The people should be educated as to what lines are open at what times, he said, and the problems should disap­pear. 
• • • CIA 


cuntinuedfrom page I 
about ayear, doing economic analyses. Iksaid he: didn't 
cart· hlr the: work and hasn't been aftlliated with the CIA 
ti >r :~0 years. 
Williams admitted that some: governments arc: con­
cerned about the "pretty good dose of returned mis­
~ionarics who've: gone hack to the countries they were 
in, a!-> Ct·ntrallntelligc:nce agents." 
lie said Brazil was among the: countries which have: 
questioned the church about the number offormer mis­
sionaries who've returned as CIA employees, and 
Taiwan had expressed concern because a mission presi­
dent there had worked with the: CIA several years priot 
to hb church assignment. 
Stanley Taylor, director of BYll's International Rela­
tion~ Ikpar!ment and a consultant to the Senate: Inrel­
ligt·ncc Committee, said he doubts many foreign 
govcrnnH'lll!-> worry about a possible CIA-Mormon con­nection. 
"The govt:rnments are sophisticated enough that they know better," he said. "I don't think they take it very seriously, (hut) I don't doubt for a minute that a lot of the people may." 
Young Mormons leaving on missions for the church have sometimes been approached to work concurrent· ly for the CIA, Williams said, adding that he knt:w of none who had evt:r accepted the offer. 
F. LaMond Tullis, protcssor ofLarin American govern­ment at BYU, agreed. 
"I don't know of any Mormon missionary who has ever been involved withJhe CIA," ht· said. "But they are out there, knocking on doors and talking to people in a way that would lead people to believe they art: t1nding things out about the: country." 
Morman missionaries resemble CIA 
Close-cropped hair 

1'he Observer Thursday, October 1, 1981 -page 6 

Arms sale 


Opposition grows to Saudi deal 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Senate for joint lJ.S.-Saudi manning of the with the foreign ministers ofCanada, Republican Leader Howard BakerJr. planes in an effort to mollify Mexico, Portugal, Tunisia, Syria and told President Reagan yesterday he Congress. Pakistan. An official said Haig, who is does not have tht: votes to clear the Haig is to give the Senate Foreign to return to New York tonight, S8. 5 billion arms sale to Saudi Relations Committee a closed brief­would try to reschedule the ses­Arabia, and Secretary of State ing this morning, presumably on sions. Alexander M. Haigjr. hurried home progress toward that compromise. Haig was overruled when he from the United Nations to try to Haig's decision to return to Wash­urged keeping the A WACS sale save the deal. ington was preceded by high-level separate from the rest of the 
Baker told reporters he thinks the staff meetings through the night in package. He believed the sale of the president still can win the congres­New York. A senior administration planes would be endangered by in­sional test, but opponents now have official who asked not to be named clusion of Sidewinder missiles and the upper hand. said ofthe sale, "We're taking it hour fuel tanks to increase the range of 
"It is in trouble but it's not beyond by hour." the f.J '5 jet fighters the United States salvaging," Baker said he told the Haig had been scheduled to meet has sold the Saudis. president. 
" think Ronald Reagan's going to get the AWACS through," Baker said. But fur now, he told reporters "We 

Porno workers stage 
don't have the votes.'' A .30-day clock for congressional veto of the sale was to start running 


12 -hour strike and win 
later in the day with the administra­tion's formal submission of the sale CHICAGO (AP)-Employees of ment," said Skoglund. "We were to Congress. I I adult bookstores were back on promised legal costs would be paid 
If the House and Senate have not Ihe job peddling dirty books and in case of arrests. That was a big rejected the S8.5 billion sale by Oct. movies yesterday after they won item. But we also got the promise of 30, the deal goes through. their main demand. in a 12-hour no retribution, more job security, 
It includes five Airborne Warning strike: payment of legal costs when reasonable work breaks and more 
and Control System radar planes they are arrested in police raids. open dialogue. After 21 days, the plus Sidewinder missiles and "We've been more effective than lawyers for both sides will meet and longrange fuel tanks for 62 Saudi f. (Moral Majority leader) Jerry Fal­firm an agreement." 15 jet fighters. well," said Art Martinez, one ofthree Skoglund said wages were not a 
The administration says the sale is store managers who engineered the big issue, although employees arc vital for defending the Saudi oil wildcat walkout of 51 employees unhappy over low pay. Martinez supply but opponents call it a threat Tuesday in the downtown and said: "we only make S5.50 an hour,
Practicing in the shadow of"Touchdownjesus" seems to provide 
to Israel and a compromise ofsuper­North Side locations. and we're supposed to pay S I, 700
this student with an added intensity as he practices his frisbee 
secret equipment. Managers Martinez, Chris for a lawyer? That's nuts."
routines. (Photo byjohn M a cor) 
Haig canceled meetings with six Skoglund and Charles Dunham met There also is a 1 5 percent com· foreign ministers at the United Na­with representatives of the stores' mission on film sales . tions and hurried back to Washing­operator, the Capitol News Agency, Some pickets were at the shops ton to take charge and try to save the and negotiated an agreement that Tuesday. Many disappointed cuS· 
: _/~ ~fi) • sale. brought employees back to the job tomers shrugged their shoulders Earlier, Haig sent Ambassador at 8:30 p.m. The stores are open and ambled off
. : 
Richard Murphy to Saudi Arabia around the clock. "We called the strike strictly on with a new compromise proposal "It's a 21-day tentative agree· our own -we are not unionized,
.• It~~ .•
~ 
just united," said Skoglund. "We have no immediate plans to join a union or form one ourselves, but it's
• • llliJI!S()Al' ~lfJill fll.. SEI!IES
..:-rua 8rothers Big Sisters Is looking forward e possible."
Thursday, October 1 
A spokesman for Capitol News

e to another year of exciting· activities! : 
Gun Cr•zr United Artists 1949 (87 min.) 
Agency said the company did not 

King of the B film, Joseph H. Lewis directed this low­
renege on picking up legal gal tabs.

budget outlaw-couple-on-the-run story with John Dall and
:If you are one and have not recelve~the e 
"This issue was misconstrued, that's

Peggy Cummins. An unexpectedly imaginative and poetic 
all, and all points prior to the job ac­

meditation on guns, love and America.
e newsletter, please contact: : 
tion have been settled," said the 
spokesman, who asked that his name

.laJ() vrn ..IJSEIJ.. ()f A~I
: Andrew Kottkamp 8448 (after 6) or e 
not be used.

§~()ll§()f£'cl ~l' til£' c.ciiTII§§I()Il S1.()() 
Among complaints, Martinez said,

e South Bend Agency 232-9958 : 
were the firing of employees who 

~() S..( (()....IJ~I(Afl()~ ~ lllEAI~f 
close their stores to take lunch 
breaks and the periodic dismissals of 


managers 
~***•*************************************************************************************~ 
~ *
attentiOn OBS€RV€R phOtO(jRaph€RS: 
manbatoRy m€€tJnq ~oR all stat:~ 
_I -T H E River City Records Announcesthe Concertoftheyear... l 
* ~ 

sunbay 
4th 8:00 pm * ~ at th€ 0BS€RV€R 
f ~ ROLLI G I ~ 
~~~~~~~--~~~~"~~"--~~~~~~~.-~~ * * * * 





ISTO ES I
~ ~ 
~ * 
~ ~ ~ ~ 
* ~ Special Guest:SANTANA ~ ~ 
~ ~
i Tues~ay -.December 1, 1981 * 7:30p.m. i ~ Pont1ac S1lverdome * Pontiac, Michigan ~ 
~ * 
! $1.00 OFFT !
i Special Charter Bus Packager All Rolling stones i 
: includes: and Santana albums ! 
: *round trip bus transportation from and tapes now at both :
! River City Records to Pontiac River City Records ! 
: Silverdome. Bus departs at 1:00p.m., : 
! returns approlt. 3:30 a.m. Limited number of package ! 
! * Refreshments on bus tickets now on sale at : 
! *Ticket to The Rolling Stones/Santana River City Records :
i concert 50970 U.S. 31 North i 
: * safety/convenience/avoid driving &. : : parking expense and hassler For more information call-277-4242 : 
*~ *~ 
~ . * 
~ ....••.•......................................•...............................•...•.......• 


The Observer Thursday, October 1, 1981 -page 7 

Pyschological warfare 
Solidarity conden1ns fear tactics 
<;t>ANSK, Poland ( AP) -The in­dependent union Solidarity accused Poland's Communist authorities yes­terday of waging a "kar campaign" and "psyd10logical \varfarl· against tht· nation." 
"\Ve arc warned we may lose our national indcpl-ntkncc," the resolu­tion said. "We do not possess tanks and truncheons as a means of com­pulsion. It is rather our conviction that we art· strong because we arc right, and in the last analysis because we have the right to strike." 
The rt·solution was passt·d after Solidarity's national nmgrcss opened a tkbatc on a program it said could save Poland from catastrophe without taking it out of the Soviet­led Warsaw Pact. But the Kremlin 
blasted  the  draft  as  a  political  
mani .fcsto  aimed  at  countcr­ 
rt·volution.  

Tht· program blanll·d centralized authority for bringing the "country to ruin" and said the independent pcricnccd, in the course of nearly 
three decades, the constant breach­ing of human and civil rights," it added. 
It blames the "ruling system" which it says is "based on unlimited authority ofcentral party and state institutions" for bringing the "country to ruin." 
In Moscow, the Soviet news agency Tass declared, "This is not a document of a trade union, but a manifesto of a political party that claims leadership of society and of the country." 
· It said while the program blames Poland's Communist authorities ti>r ruin, "it is common knowledge that the present situation of anarchy and dislocation is entirely ·on the con­science of the extremist leaders of Solidarity and other counter­revolutionary forces." 

union was aware that Poland faced the possibility of bloodshed if the country tries to abandon the Com­munist systt·m. 
At least three days arc expected to be spent discussing the program, which calls for more union control over state enterprises and increased press freedom, among other things. 
"There could be very, very few amendments and very, VtT)' few changes," a Polish journalist close to the year-old independent labor federation said. "The program is very clear cut and should survive mostly intact." 
The 39-pagc document says: "The union is elaborating its program at a moment when the country is threatened with catastrophe. We cannot accustom ourselves to living in the crisis. We must get out of it. 
"The union grew out of the revolt of Polish society which had ex­


•.~ 
Hitachi·D·E1 0 
Full Auto Stop, Dolby Noise Reduction, 
Metal Tope Capabilities 
Hitachi·D·E25 
Soh·Touch Controls, Dolby NR, Metal Tope Capabilities 
Nikko-ND-590 
30-18,000 Frequency Response, 
Cve-Review, Output Control 
AIWA·AD·L450 
3-Color LED's, Direct Drive Dual Motor, 
Soft Touch logic Controls 
HARMON /KARDON·200XM 
World's most inexpensive Dolby HX 
I Odb High Fre~ency Extension 
Denon-DR·230 
Equalized LED's, Dual Motor, Direct Drive Soft·Touch Full logic 'Controls 
DUAL·822 
loser Direct loading, Full logic Controls, Totally Un•que 
Nikko·ND-990 (Rack Mt.) 
Illuminated Full logic Control · 
30-21,000 Frequency Response '' 

HARMON /KARDON 705 
Electronic loading Equalized LED's Dolby Hx, 1 Odb, High Frequency Extension 

Tbe unpredictable weatber in its most ominous moments can tun1 the tbougbts of anyone toward more depressing matters. ( Pboto byjobn Macor) 


AUDIO SOUNDS OFFERS ATAPE DECK FOR EVERYONE 
'•) ~
0~· ~-n
-~-q =__...-____ I , ­



lliil -'' .,,-, l + • 1 I I ' ' -• • 
AIWA·M·BOO 
AIWA·R·500 (Auto Ievene) 
World's only perfected Auto Reverse with Turnaround an unbelieveable 0.4 seconds 
AIWA·M-700 
3-Heads, 2-Motor, Dual Capstan VU Metering with peak LED readout 
Denon·DR-300 
3-Heod, Servo Tope Tension System 
Denon new pot. Solid Machine 
AIWA·3600 
3-Heod, Dual Capstan, 2-Motor Dolby HX, 
Automatic Demagnetizing System 
Denon·DR-330 
De non best 3-Heod, Cue-Review Servo Tope 
Tension System, VU with peak LED's 



TANDERG·TCD·420A 
The European Alternat1ve for the Discriminating 
Audiophile, 2-heod, 3-motor 

AIWA·M-800 
S1mply Advance, Compietelv ComputertZed 
Wireless Remote, AIWA's lop of the lme 


TANDBERG·TCD·440A 
3-Heods, 3-Motors, Dual Capstan Dyneq 
Actilinear, Near Recording, Metai Tope 
TANDBERG·TD·20A , ...... ,..., 
The Most Respected Reel to Reel Available 4-Motors, Quarter Track, Both 10" and 7" Reels 



~--~~~ -~---~-----------------------------------------,. 


Feature~ 
Thursday, October 1, 1981 -page 8 


Thinking, College Style . 
• • ~imagination was less limber I s_imp-
PauiiOSidOWSki Iy relaxed and started a seemm~y endless monologue -full of wm­
ding digressions and tangential tur-
Se d Th h nabouts _ on the important issues COfi OUg tS ofthe day 
My editor said it wouldn't but I 
knew it would. He said I would have ~ plenty of things to write about, but here I am; there he is ­glaring at me from across the newsroom -and there is the 
deadline, hovering over my head like the sword of Damocles. I wish they could just printPaul Kosidowski is on vacation in a little box on the bottom of the page, like they do in the big time. But there are no "little boxes" or "vacations" here, just mean­looking editors. I had alot of ideas...mostly from over the summer, when I did a lot uf thinking. When one cuts grass for eight hours a day, one can do that. Every morning as soon as l started up Egor, my lawn mower, and began pushing him around the city parks of Milwaukee, the thoughts flowed. I could be anywhere I wanted: on a Broadway stage belting out Maria, tal t king to J.D. Salinger, or winning at Wimbcldon. When my 
I could start with depressing 
predictions of the future: Where 
would I be? Where would America 
be? Where would Woody Allen be? 
Then, quicker than you could say 
"Ralph Nader," I could dive into a 
blissful state of nostalgia, back to 
the days of Red Skelton and Vince 
Lombardi and, after recalling those days, wonder about the present. I could took at something that 1saw every day, a McDonalds maybe, and let that image spring board me into a stream ofconsciousness that could last the rest of the afternoon -just because I had nothing else to do. My mind was free. 
The best thing about these thoughts was that they were private and not subject to the flip­pant labeling that is so often the fate of public thoughts. I could dream without being "idealistic" and recollect without "sentimentality." 1was not radical, right, conservative, left or even (heaven forbid) middle-of­the-road. I was just thinking. 
NOW, I AM HERE, at a univer­sity -at a "thinking" place an? my 
musings of the summer are ~~JCkly 
dismissed as aimless and tnv1al, as 
distractions from my academic 
purpose. 
We all think here, but it is dif­
ferent. Another part of our brains 
are being used, the part that specializes in deriving equations and churning out papers (or columns) overnight. The other part ofour brain has locked itselfin a musty back room up there. "I will have nothing to do with these 
thoughts," it says. It probably just sits around and watches I Love Lucy reruns. 
Some people try to spend some time with that part of their brain. They'll read the newspaper or pick up aNewsweek every so often and really try to prevent that other part of their brain from getting fat and lazy. I've tried it, but other thoughts keep interfering. They tell me about all the things I'm supposed to think about, the things I'm paying lots of money to think about. 
It's hard to forget that we're paying for all this thinking, or that this thinking will be evaluated by some authoritarian being after it's done (or after it's supposed to be done). So we feel guilty when we st~p _thmkmg statistics anu. start thm~mg thoughts. We ta~e speed readmg and speed learnmg (the !~test craz~) so we can spend ~ess time workmg and have more time to worry about what's duc_nex~. Of 
course we do _rake classes 111_t~mgs 
we want to thmk about, but Its not 
th N tt h h 
e same. o rna er ow muc we want to know about something, when we have to know about it, we hate it. "That cl'!_ss is really interesting but..." 
IT'S AMAZING WHAT slips by 
h t hoot try·n to
us w en we are a sc I g get our money's worth. I am sure that I have ignored hundreds ofin­sights in the last years, some profound and some just interesting -from friends, family and maybe · even a few teachers. They just came at the wrong time -when I wasn't looking or listening_ 
I was visiting an urban campus 
once and was amazed at all the 
winos and bums that students 
were almost stepping over to get 
to their classes. I asked someone 
about them. "Don't worry, after a 
while you get used to them," she 
said I don't think I ever want to 
"get used to" things like that. But 
I'll wait until I get out of school, 
when I have more time to think 
about "things like that." 
I re_member once readmg a poem m an old DOME._ It_ talked about a Notre Dame education and then said that mayb~ all th~t we've done and learned 1s nothmg but "an empty hat." I recalle? th~t poem again when ~~ad Salinger s Franny and Zooey. Four years of d h d
college an I never once car anyone say wisdom," Franny com­plains. I don't think I ever have either, but ifanyone did, I probably wasn't listening. _ 
I LOOK FONDLY UPON las[ 
d · II r think
summer an occaswna Y c 
some of those listless thoughts by 
paging through a journal or 
reading some old, unsent letters. 
The thing I worry about the most 
now is that next summer will 
probably be different. I won't be 
cutting grass or eating lunch under 
the silent branches ofan oak tree. I 
don't know where I'll be, but I 
know I will have reports to make 
and bills to pay. Those things have 
a tendency to preoccupy minds 
and sometimes put them to sleep. 
I know, however, that some­
where in the back of my skull, 
watching television is that guy 
who I spent my summer with. 
Someday, I'll go back and shoot the 
bull with him for a while...if I have 
the time. 

' 'Getting Out '' raises interesting issues 
In this somewhat sheltered, cious circle of crime and poverty. Julie Jensen believes that ".. the middle class world of a mid­whole issue in this play is one of
Getting Out concerns Arlene, an western Catholic university ex-con just released from prison af­class and one ofsex." As most ofus 
campus, not many have heard the ter having served an eight year 
belong to the middle and upper name Marsha Norman. Yet Marsha term for murder. Although she has 
classes, it is difficult, if not impos­Norman may very well be one of truly changed during her incarna­
sible, for us to understand the life the most important playwrights of tion, she returns to find that not options available to persons in the our time. Her plays arc not par­only is she still treated as she was lower classes. All our lives we've ticularly funny, nor are they before, but is now held in higher been told that if we work hard 
romantic in any sense of the word. suspicion and contempt. Arlene is keep our noses clean, and get a fe~ 
They ·do not even move one to constantly haunted by the rebel­breaks, we will be successful in 
tears in any way we might be ac­lious, hateful person she used to anything we choose to do. We've 
customed to. What they do convey be. This "Arlie" is played by anoth­never had to make a choice be­
arc incredibly powerful, poignant er actress, and provides an tween barely surviving by washing 
looks at certain aspects of society interesting theatrical device as she dishes for $95 a week, or selling 
that most of us never sec, or even plays out for us various scenes dope or hooking to make better 
know exist. from Arlene's memory ofher past. 
money. AsJensen says "The choice Getting Out is such a play. This In Getting Out, Marsha Norman really isn't: 'Do I want to be a brilliant new drama explores one presents us with some disturbing hooker?' The choice is: 'Do I need ten dollars?' " 
woman's inner struggle with her questions about ourselves and the past as she attempts to escape a vi-structure of our society. Director "For us, the gate is open;" Julie 
Consider the Plunge 
T.J. Conley 

For most Notre Dame and Saint sociology textbook and the rear deeper recognition of the Mary's students, a reference to window of my car as I drove dynamics ofthe situation, "the American City" produces a through the city on my way to the Obviously in 48 hours it is im­variety of conflicting images. subcrbs. I had never experienced possible to realistically experience Everything in the city becomes lar­the city other than as an area to urban life or to come to grips with ger than life, a monstrous com­pass through. On the Plunge,_ all ofits complexities. The purpose plexity we can never hope to however, l lived in the city and of the Urban Plunge is not to understand. Either the city is im­became part of it for 48 hours. l provide a comprehensive survey agined as an endless line of 
changed from a passive observer to ofthe American city. Rather, it is an bombed-out buildings, grim an active participant. Perhaps for introduction, an opportunity to housing projects filled with people the first time, I became involved 
spend two short but intense days 
destined to live thier lives in with a city and its peoples. And my in this new environment with the 
poverty and despair; or else the view ofit changed dramatically. To hope that we will be able to ask 
city is a magic place, filled with tall another plunger, any other way of 
some basic and essential questions glittering buildings and enormous viewing the city "would be like afterwards. On my own Plunge, I department stores, a place oflimit­looking in a fishbowl and observ­was bombarded with images and less opportunity for all. ing...tsk, tsk, it must be awful. The impressions for 48 hours, and af­Reality, ofcourse, is somewhere only way one can know how awful, 
terwards I felt drained, almost between these two images. The Ur­how painful it is, is to live that life, burned out. Yet the real challenge ban Plunge is a 48-hour immersion even if it is for only 48 hours." 
came after, as I tried to sort out all into urban life which allows us to Viewed from this new 
that I had experienced and find see past these stereotypes and get a 
perspective, the city becomes some meaning in all of it. I am cer­glimpse of the realities of inner­more than just a two-dimensional 
tainly no closer to finding answers city America. Sponsored by the landscape. It comes alive, and its now that I was before my Plunge, Center for Experimental Learning, complexities become apparent. As 
but at least now I have a sense of the Notre Dame Theology Depart­my understanding of urban life which questions to ask. This is the ment, and the Office of Justice changed during the Plunge, many 
real purpose of the Urban Plunge: Education at Saint Mary's, this one­of my simplistic explanations and 
to raise the crucial questions 
credit course is an opportunity to unjustified assumptions were shat-· which challenge us to search for 
discover the truth within the tered. I could no longer afford to answers and solutions in the 
American city. hide behind naive theories and cal­future. As one plunger suggested, 
The emphasis on the Plunge is lous objectivities. Becoming "One might ask oneself, 'What can 
personal experience. Before my directly involved in urban life chal­I do to improve the situation, and 
Pl~Jngc, most of my knowledge lenged me to move beyond these for that matter what am I doing to 
ab~ut urban life had come from a superficial understandings to a create it?'" 
smiles, "but from birth, these ditional insights will be lent to the 
people arc in a different category. production by the attendance of 
Never once, was the world open to the author at the October 3rd per­
them. They had to make choices formance. Ms. Norman will hold a 
from a very narrow range." No one, question and answer session im­particularly not a woman, talks mediately following the produc­about going to college; they barely tion; even talk about going to high The general public is invited to school. The important thing is to attend Getting Out on October get a job, any job, in order to 2,3,8,9,10 in O'Laughlin survive. Then, if one can not quite Auditorium at 8:00p.m. Ms. Nor­make it on that job, crime becomes man will appear in conjunction the only available option. with the 25th anniversary celebra­
In Getting Out, Marsha Norman tion ofO'Laughlin Auditorium. 
addresses these complicated 
issues, plus many other powerful, 
Mary Francell 
but disturbing questions. Many ad­9:00 The Mark Davis Show


Deidre Gr0111 
composed of a group of six guys, none of whom are listed as being named Mark Davis. Saturday night 

iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiWiiiiiiiiieeiiiiiikiiiiiie;;n;;d= two talented Saint Mary's students,
ii 
Sarah Wachter and Carol Cahalan, 
The campus will once again be the will perform from 9:30 until I 0:30. focal point for most of this An open stage follows for as long as weekend's activities. Rather than the people are willing to try their hand mass exodus to enemy territory, we at stardom or embarrass themselves can sit back and watch our campus beyond belief. become filled with plaid-panted Friday and Saturday mark the alumni. Be care-ful this weekend opening of Getting Out, the first when dealing with these visitors be-production of this school year for cause most of them arc pretty up-ND/SMC theatre. Under the direc­tight about the outcome of this tion ofJulie Jensen, the play starts at Saturday's matchup between (gasp!) 8:00 as part of the Twenty Fifth An­unranked Notre Dame and Michigan nivcrsary Celebration of ()'Laughlin State. Auditorium. 
Contrary to popular opinion, foot-The movie, "Superman," star-ball isn't the only thing going on un-ring Christopher Reeve and Mar­der the Dome on Fall weekends. If got Kidder in a romantic tale of an you happen to see alot of people alien of extraordinary physical running around campus at about powers, the villains he battles, and Happy Hour time on Friday, don't the woman and the nation he think that Corby's announced that loves, will be showing in the they're no longer carding or that Engineering Auditorium both Irish Country is giving out more free Friday and Saturday at 7, 9:30 and beer. Rather, realize that the Notre midnight. The film is sponsored by Dame Cross Country Invitational the Knights of Columbus. Admis­just got under way and you still have sion is $1, free to K ofC members. plenty oftime to get happy. This week it seems as if everyone 
The weekend's rivalry against has been hit hard by tests, projects, Michigan State will start off at 4:00 and papers. In many ways it's not dif­Friday afternoon on Alumni Field in fcrent from most weeks around a soccer confrontation. Saint Mary's here. It's hard to think about putting volleyball team will travel across the academics aside for a little while be­road to face the Notre Dame women cause we wake up to Monday classes at 8:00 in the ACC. all too soon. But, for sanity's sake, 
Also at the ACC on Friday night take some time out and hit a Happy are the Commodores with Evelyn Hour or two, or a tailgater or two, Champagne King as an opening act. and hopefully this week will end 
In the basement ofLaFortune, The with victory number two! En­Nazz will present on Friday night at joy...only sixteen days until break. 



Thursday, October 1, 1981 -page 9





Editorials 
I 
Goldwater attack on New Right not laudable 
l am perhaps disqualified from murder another Christian -or for a writing a column to detach myself Christian to murder a Hindu, or for a 
from probably my favorite person in Moslem to murder an atheist. 


all this world, but I have been Now the whole of the movement 
travelling, and everywhere I go I toward emam:ipation in the 19th cen­
hear quoted Sen. Barry Goldwater's tury was ultimately grounded in On the Right 
views on the desirable division be­religious understanding. It isn't that 
tween religion and politics. It was a non-believer can't come out against proved by Protestant, Catholic and 
last week that Senator Goldwater slavery. The ethical autonomy of the Jewish leaders? This affront ­
blasted the New Right. saying, "I skeptics is perfectly capable of com­defended by liberals, opposed by 
don't think what they're talking ing up with congruent moral-civil conservatives-on the liberty of the 
about is 'conservatism.·... The determinations. But those who people to inject the presence of 
religious issue of these groups believed in God and devoted them­religion in the schoolroom isn't the 
(abortion, school prayer) has little or selves to attempting to understand his kind of issue we're supposed to leave 
nothing to do with conservative or Gospels came-however slowly­to God to settle. 
liberal politics," said the senator. to the conclusion that slavery was in­The rebuke of the Supreme Court 
·'One of the great strengths of our compatible with God's work. John for its arrogation of power, and its 
political system always has been our Brown, swinging on a sour apple distortion of the First Amendment, is 
tendency to keep religious issues in tree, may (like Nat Turner) have something tha only the people, acting 
the background." profoundly misjudged what methods through Congress and if necessary 
Here, l think. is where the senator the Bible enjoins, or tolerates. But he through a constitutional amendment, 
is mistaken. was moved by the Bible and gave his can handle. And the need occasional~ 
"Religious issues" are of two life in pursuit of his vision. ly to discipline the Supreme Court 
kinds. denominational and universal. There has seldom been an age in used to be one ofthe favorite compul-
Catholics may argue on and on which "the religious issue" has been sions of Senator Goldwater. · 
whether the clergy should be per­more pointedly directed at social Abortion either does or does not 
mitted to marry. and Jews on whether policy. When Senator Goldwater in kill human beings, even as Southern 
this practice or that violate kosher 1964 courageously voted against the chains did or did not fetter human 
standards. These arc probably civil rights bill he did so profondly beings. The decision that blacks were 
denominational issues, and one believing that sections of it were un­human required the last word in 
would not expect the disputants to constitutional in that the hill gave to political struggles: a civil war. The 
take them before Congress (although the government powers reserved un­abortion fight will, everyone hopes, 
suppression of Mormon bigamy in der the Ninth and Tenth Amend­stop short of that. But to say that it is 
the 19th century was an interesting ments for the state and for the people. purely a religious issue, in the sense 
exception). But the denunciations of Senator that eating fish on Friday is purely a 
But other concerns of religion are Goldwater were sharpest from men religious issue, underestimates the do they think they are?" the senator South Vietnam.· So the moralityuniversal in character. Jews -and of the cloth, notably the Rev. Martin obligations of the moral man to seek is reacting to that kind of overbearing bombastic set should take note of theChristians-believe in the integrity Luther King Jr., who in his exhorta­an answer to a question that's trou­moral smugness that often brings out threshold of human irritability,of man, and in his derivative unas­tions to racial equality relied primari­bling him today as the issue of the cantankerous in one. The kind of which is lower than they suppose.
sailability. Accordingly they concert ly, even as Abraham Lincoln had slavery was yesterday. 
thing that brings forth "Nuke the But Senator Goldwater, God bless to construct a society in which these done, on the word of God. I happen to know Barry Whales" buttons in young people him (and this is a universal, not abeliefs are retlected. If one· s religion Now what is an American citizen Goldwater very well, and when he sick and tired, to use the senator's denominational injunction), shouldteaches that murder is wrong, its to do when confronted, as he was 20 says, " I'm frankly sick and tired of phrase, of the rodomontade of the cautiously retreat from the line he ha~mandate against murder extends years ago, with a Supreme Court that the political preachers across this fashionable moralists. Every time I taken.

beyond its own !lock. It becomes, forbids prayer in the public schools country telling me as a citizen that if see the Rev. William Sloane Coffin 
then, not only morally wrong but notwithstanding that the prayer in I want to be a moral person l must Jr. I am tempted to publicly regret 
Universal Press Syndicate 

criminally wrong for a Christian to question had previously been ap-believe in A, B, C, and D-just who that we didn't use the atom bomb in 

P.O. Box Q 
handicapped on earth, not so that we the sale of the A WACs. 
Now Congress must decide this their lack of concern for the God­Kosidowski "normal" people may teach them, Yet the Israelis feel that the issue. If it listens to the paranoia of given gift of a healthy body. 

but rather that we may allow the A WACs would somehow be used the Jewish people and votes down the What it all boils down to, in lightfeature article handicapped to teach us. against them. These fears are without sale of the A WACs to Saudi Arabia, of the "guarding of the ice cream,"Thank you, Paul, for reassuring us foundation. These fears are without then the United Stats will be hurt. is that people are taking notice of theis reassuring that the message of your Ann and our foundation. Because the Saudis The prestige of this country will be abuse others are causing themselves. 
Ben is being received. would be handling aircraft new to
Dt•ar Editor: jeopardized by the direct defeat of Some might say that it's none of their
Theresa Cotter them, American technicians would
My husband and I each attempted our president's wishes. If Congress busness, but if something is going
Minneapolis, Minn. be on the scene -and will always
to read aloud Paul Kosidowski's "A acts responsibly and votes for the wrong it is only right that something
know what the Saudis are doing. In
Message from Ann" (The Observer, sale, not only will the security of be said about I it and get it into the
addition, a compromise is now being
Sept. 17) to our younger chiltlrcn. Saudi Arabia be increased, hut also open. True, it is dreadful that some Neither of us succeeded in finishing 
Israelis are worked out that would ensure joint overall world security will be greatly may have felt ridiculed by those ac­
Saudi-American crews on the planes
the article for we were overcome enhanced. tions, especially if they are putting
paranoid on at all times; this would be another
with emotion. Mike Beaudine forth a sincere attempt to change.
safeguard against any possible Sautli 
We too have a daughter named Alumni Hall Every person that has ever been on a
A WACs sale threat to Israel.
Ann -our Anne is a freshman at diet realizes that much encourage­
I see a different reason, however,
Notre Dame. We also have a Down's ment is needed and a little criticism
why Israel is opposed to the A WACs 
Syndrome l'hild-Benjamin, age 9. Dear Editor: 'Fat Chicks' goes a long way in destroying con­
sale. Ever since Israel declared its in­
About the time that Paul Kosidowski In response to recent articles on fidence.
dependence in 1948, it has had
received the hirthtlay card from his your editorials page, l feel com­abuser defends This letter is not meant to belittle
several contlicts with various Arab 
si~ter Ann. our Anne received a note pelled to comment on the proposed overweight people who arc trying to 
states, to the point that the Arabs
from her youngest brother Ben. It sale of the A WACs to Saudi Arabia. South actions gain control of their bodies. But for
(with the exception of Egypt) are 
too was laboriously printed, emhel­The situation seems simple. those who don't respect their bodies
Dear Editor: 

considered the enemy -even in
lishetl with superfluous pum:tuation, The United States wants to sell and grow fatter and lazier with each
peacetime. Israel continually fears This letter was born when the con­
and expressing that same kind of some highly sophisticated advance­succeeding "Sundae," maybe this
troversy of "No Fat Chicks" began.wonderfully open and accepting warning airplanes to a good ally, letter and the actions of the ice cream
the Arabs; Israel is are paranoiac in 
But the attitudes expressed were love. Saudi Arabia, a country that is also watchers will spark some guilt and
that they think the Arabs are always 
within me long before I came to 

"Dear Anne, the largest producer of crude oil in cause some to evaluate their situa­planning and plotting against them. 
This is why Israel bombed Iraq's Notre Dame. Although l can only
You an:.,, 10 lady! the Middle East today. Israel, and tion. I'm definitely not saying
speak for myself, I feel I share myLove, Ben the majority of Jews in the United everybody should be or even want to
nuclear reactor last June. Israel 
sentiments with many in that I have 

However, it \II~~ neither the States, are opposed to this proposed be thin, but I do believe that
feared, without real proof, that the 
little pity. and often no kind words similarities in letters or names that sale, claiming that the A WACs everyone should do everything in
Iraqis were going to build an atomic 
for grossly overweight people who 

brought forth our emotional response would endanger Israeli security. against Israel. So Israel carried out don't care about themselves. (This is their power to strive to he the best to the article. Instead. it was the fact Therefore, Congress is being they possibly can mentally, spiritual­
bomb at that site designed for use 
to exclude those, who for mental or that Paul already knew, at his age, pressured by American Jews to vote ly, and physically. 
an air assault that caused destruction 
physical reasons, have no al­what we as parL'nts have only recent­down the sale, while the Reagan ad­Pete Wuellner 
. and death. In a similar way, Israel 
ternative.) In fact, I become sad­ly learned =--that God places the ministration is heavily lobbying for Morrissey Hall 
fears what the Saudis would do with 
dened, frustrated and angered withthe A WACs. 


Editorial Board and Department Managers 
Editor·in-Chief.........................................john McGrath SMC Executive Editor ..................... Mary Agnes Carey 

Box Q, Notrt: Dame, iN 46556 _ 
Managing Editor ......................................Tom jackman SMC News Editor ................................Cathy Domanico The Observer is an independent newspaper published by the students ot the Executive News Editor ..............................Lynne Daley Photo Editor...................................................]ohn Macor University of Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College It does not m·~:essanlv 
News Editor ................ ...........................Tim Vercdtotti reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news 1.., report~·d News Editor.... .. ...................................Kctli Flint Business Manager ....................................Rich Coppola as accurately and as objectively as possible. Editorials represent the opm10n of a Senior Copy Editor ........................ Mary Fran Callahan Controller........................................................joe Mulflur majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, opinions, and_ letters are the v1ew.., Sports Editor ................................ ........ Michael Ortman Advertising Manager ......................................Mark Ellis Features Editor ....................................Anthony Walton Production Manager.............................. Michael Monk
of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the communi!\, and 
Circulation Manager ........................Tom MacLennan

the free expression of varying opinions on campus. through letters. 1s encouraged. 
Thursday, October 1, 1981 -page 10 
..~ 
.:.. -:=.;·r...-.··_,• 
8111 Kramer (6633) v. John Grey (4641) Women's Grad-Faculty Rob Ebert (6427) v. Jerry Walker (181 t) Susan Roberts (282-1029) v. Dorothy Pashley 
Men's Singles Novice (Semifinals) (287-6738) Barry Fay l 1026) V~ Ted Dare (6756) Sally Derengoski -bye Pat Toole (6609) v. Greg Koch (233-2274) Men·s Grad-Faculty (Finals) 
Women's Singles Jack Jones (8827) v. Nickos Apergh1s (287-9341 1 Joanne Swieczak (4633) v. Louisa Demello (1261) Round-Robin Grad-Faculty Mixed Doubles Kathy Tully (2643) v. Linda Radler (2948) Roberts/Phillips (282-1 029) v. Jones Ltnda Cleveland (4661) v. Sue Gordon (6027) (8627)/Weeks (7385) 
Pashley (6584)/Fre~ter (267-6736) v. Mixed Doubles 
Apergh1s/Derengosk1 (277-7325) 
------------------------~----------~--~---­

~ ~---~~---------~ 

Shorts BriefS L 
1. L_;.,~~:-. ;.-:..~~~--.;~~.-::. .... :~ :~ ---.··.· :-·~~-"":.~::..:~::: by Tht-Oh.rcrl'r'r and Tht· ,;JJ<Xlti/c·rl Pn r1 
An lflterhall CrOSS COUntry meet on Burke Memorial Golf Course is scheduled for Monday, October 5. Contes­tants are to report to the second tee. For more information call the NVA office at 6100. -The Observer 
Pennant races in major league baseball tightened up last night In the National League, Philadelphia defeated St Louis, 8-5, while Montreal edged Pittsburgh, '3-2. The Expos now lead the 
N.L. East by a halfgame over the Cardinals. Cincinnati, by virtue ofits 5-2 victory over Houston, narrowed the Astros' lead in the N.L. West to just a half game. In the American League, Kansas City clinched a playoffberth in the West by defeating Minnesota, 5-2. In the A.L. East, Milwaukee pulled into a virtual tic for the lead with Detroit-AP 
,__..:_~~~-,~~.. -~. ~·'r ::::::'".~~t...:~~ :.:·~~·:~:.;::,.; ~:...·: ·
· 


Fall tennis tournaments are smgle elimination. Painngs will appear each week in The Observer. It is the responsibility ot each partic1pant to contact his or her opponent and set up a match in each round. Results ol matches must be turned 1n to the tnlerhall office (C-2 ACC) before noon on the following Tues~ day. Failure to report results wdl mean disqualification of both participants. Results will only be accepted 11 insurance forms are completed and on file 
Men's Open Singles Damian Marshall (1509) v. Tom W1lkas (1066) Mtke Smith (8437) v. Jack Etsenbets (1058) Donald Zelazny (1761) v. Fred Sharp (3252) Alex Sztlvas (6931) v. Kevin O'Brien (1767) Pat Collins (1201) v. Mark Loman (6833) Andy Smith (3443) v Tom Walcott (1774) 
Unger ( 1641 )/Robtnson (3352) Gergen (3321 )/Hackett (6752) Chelskey (7289)/Meger (8015) v. Williams (1774)/Ford (1339) Logan (277-2025)/Schuster (277-4897) v. Huberty (8441)/James (1391) Davts/Re1lly (7637) v. Eichenlaub (8773)/Hemtng 
(2956) Runger/Schm1dt-bye Straub/Swleclak -bye Demello /Clark-bye 
Pep Rally 7 pm Stepan Friday 

SENIOR WEEK CHAIRMAN and I need MSU tix! as close to 10 as I can get HELP!! Need 4-5 FSU GA·s for visiting NEED STUDENT TICS FOR MSU, Pardon me.. I d like to speak to you SENIOR FELLOW CHAIRMAN applica­PRICE NO OBJECT call DOUG 8838 famtly! Save a life! CALL KEVIN 1658 PREFERABLY TOGETHER CALL MIKE about. Football ttcs. I need 3 MSU GAs.
NOTICES I· 
tions are now available for all interested AT 1692 NIGHTS. Please call Mtke 3260. seniors~ Pick up applications in the Stu­I NEED 4 GA TICKETS TO THE NAVY HELP! DAD WANTS TO SEE NO BEAT dent Activities office in LaFortune. GAME. CALL PETER 1222~ HIS ALMA MATER I NEED 2 GA TIX FOR HIGH SCHOOL FOOTBALL FANS COPY EDITORS--Please pick up DEADLINE OCT. 15. \1SU GAME DESPERATELY!I!! JULIE-critiqued papers.
NEED FLORIDA STATE TIX. Call Tom at

USED BOOK SHOP. HOURS WED.. 
Need MSU and Ga. Tech GA's 3829 3573 Need riders to Cleveland (leavtng Frt. Oct. desperately. Call Paul af 1222. IN DESPERATE NEED TO TWO RIDE£
SAT.. SUN. 9-7. CASPERSON. 1303 
Bl'CHANAN RD, NILES. 
Need 2 GA Mich~ St. tix,Call Jim:289· TO DETROIT FOR OCT. BREAK. 5311 PLEASE CALL T ARI AT 7870. 

2) -Going to John Carroll. Call John I need tolal of 5 FSU Ttx, student or GA. 
3527. Need Penn State tix. Call Stan, 3006. or will trade my USC stdnt tix for FSU t1x. Call sold, searched. ERASMUS BOOKS 3008 RICH at 1797 
USED & OUT-PRINT BOOKS bought, 
Need a ride to TN for break~ Call Mtke '.JEED TWO GA TIX FOR MICH ST. BOSTON CLUB 
Tues-Sunday, 12-6. 1027 E. Wayne (One block south of Eddy-Jefferson 1ntersec~ 
6657 PLEAt.E! WEAL THY friend needs 4 good( inside WILL PAY YOUR PRICE Call Chris at NEED 2 FSU TIX.WILL PAY $f'. AND October Break Bus lion) 30.above row 20) USC TIX~ MONEY IS 8776 UP.ED 1206 S1gnups: Mon. Oct 5 NEED RIDE TO VERMONT FOR OC­NO OBJECT-WILL TOP YOUR BEST 7-8 pm LaFortune 
To all those planning to ride the TOBER BREAK. W/SHARE COSTS. BID! Call Jim 283-1863$$$ Need MSU student tickets. please call HAVE 2 MSU TIX.WILL TRADE FOR PHILADELPHIA CLUB BUS 
CALL SUE 7526 Tim at8923 FSU.ED 1208 PAUL DiNARDO IF YOU WERE MEANT TO BE A
I have 4 GA tixs to Any Home game, andplease try to get your money tn by Frtday 
NEED~ Lots of Ttx to all home games' esp. am w1lling to trade for Penn Sf. only Call HELPIII DESPERATELY NEED STU­BIG $$$$$ for 2 GA TIX & 2 ST TIX for LAWYER YOU WOULDN'T HAVE TO 
Chuck Bergere x8702 Fla. St. & Navy Call Ph111150 4609 DENT OR GA TIX TO MSU GAME. GEORGIA TECH. PLEASE call BEFORE TAKE THE LSAT. REMEMBER KEITH Please call Paula at 4688 SMC. EMERSON ONCE WANTED TO BE A Dave Zatt x6740 
BREAK!! JAY at 1703 RIDE TO BOSTON FOR OCTOBER NEED 2 GA TIX FOR NAVY GAME -······· ........................... . DOCTOR
ATTENTION L.I.ER'S OCT BREAK BUS; LEAVING OCT. 16, RETURNING BREAK. WILL SHARE USUAL. CALL WILL PAY!! CALL CASEY AT 227-5626 GAs for FSU 4 GAs and 2 students for Desperately need tix for Michigan State BOBAT3241 Navy. call1596. NEED RIDE TO DALLAS OVER FALL
OCT~ 23CALLJOHN; 8437 Dave 1809 NEED 2 STUDENT TIX FOR USC GAME 
BREAKI CALL JOHN, 234-9709. 
Need two Student or GAs for MSU~ CASH

Horse for lease. 1 m11e north of N.D Ex~ REWARD! I need a ride back from the -MONEY NO OBJECT!!!! CALL CASEY I need 6 GA's and 1 stu. or GA t1x for fami­
D.C. area during October break AFTER AT 227-5626 RENUMERATION! Call Brian 266-3106 GIOVANNIIJEVON; HAPPY 20th! Tt
perienced english riders only. call Reeny ly coming to FSU game~ Call x1729. 
the USC game. II you can help call me! Amo. It's great being back together. It234-4985 George -3182 I NEED MSU TIX!! Up to 7 needed;prefer I NEED TWO GA. TICKETS TO M.S.U. seems that everything has worked out IN
NEED MSU & FSU GA TtX' CALL TOM ATTENTION: GA'sbufwilltakestud ·scALLED 1686 GAME CALL ROB AT 277-6065. x8391 THE LONG RUN. I'm going to KEEP ON 
LOVING YOU. for fly1ng

The mov1e,Superman w11l be shown Fri Roomate wanted to share expenses. In­So watch out 
darts, because they'll be CUPID arrows!

and Sat., Oct. 2 and 3, at 7, 9:30, and mid~ terested parttes contact Sandy 282-1942 Need 2 GAs for Flortda State. Call Stan. I'M GOING INSANE' NEED 3 MSU TIX NEED 3 ADJACENT MSU GAs CALL 
ntght in the Engineering Aud. Admission after 3 p.m 3006. AND 2 FSU TIX. ASK FOR CARL AT PHIL 1764 $1-members ot the KofC free 
6827! GOT A SPECIAL FRIEND STUDYING 

RIDERS needed to MANSFIELD. OHIO NEED 8 NAVY GA TIX PLEASE CALL NEED 3-4 FLI\ ST GAs FOR FAMILY. OVERSEAS THIS YEAR? PAY TRIBUTE TYPING--Only $.65 a page Call Dan. area Leave FRI OCT 2. back Sun. Call MICHAEL AT 1615. WILL TRADE any home stud ticke' for a WILL PAY TOP$ CALL TIM 277-7590 TO THAT SPECIAL SOMEONE THIS 272-5549. before 9:00P.M 
Chns x1771. USC stud~ ticket. CALL HAMIL 1 068 FRIDAY AFTERNOON FROM 1-3 PM Qua Pasa! I need oneGA or student tx for 2 USC GA's needed Please call MARK at 
JOIN HOST . MARVIN GARDENS.. ON 

Desperately need ride fo New York City FSU. Call Steve 6645 I NEED 2 OR•4 MSU GA'S. CALL 1841 WSND AM-64 FOR THE DEDICATION for fall break Will share expenses. etc. JASPER AT 1744. SHOW Ttm 3249 Need 2 GA'S for GA TECH and/or 2 USC GA NEEDED. BUT bra and new 
NAVY. Call FRANK 8820 Desperately need FSU t1c. student or GA. dad-in-law can only afford $70 for the pair atlanta! ATLANTA! atlanta! Need ride to SAN FRANCISCO area for Call Joan at 6553. (october break.) 
SACRIFICE extra $ for a great cause. Oct break-call Paul at8626/6604 Need 4 TIX to PENN STATE. CALL Gib-1628 1need a ride for two if you are going to or FRANK 8620 Desperately need MSU GAs $$. D1ck through Atlanta take us with you Will top highest bid for 2 FSU GA's 277-0692 Please call Jeb at 8649 or Colleen at 41­
Have two MSU GA tix. will trade for two Chris8930 NEED 6 MSU GA TIX FOR FAMILY $$$ FSU GA t1x. Call Erin 1321 
4424. CALL 272-8156 BROTHER ESCAPING FROM IRAN ATLANTA! atlanta! ATLANTA! 
WANTED: Room-s1zed carpet in white. JUST TO SE~ NOTRE DAME PLAY!!! He need GA"s for Usc.will pay your pnce!! call LOST: a two tone blue sweat jacket tan or brown. Call8621. I need four of those USC t1x Call Tom at needs 2 tickets to MSU game.Piease 1625 DC CLUB--THERE IS A CHANCE THAT Reward. call vtnce x1238 4626 don t disappoint htm and call Pat at 8847 WE CAN CHARTER A SECOND BUS IF 
ENOUGH INTEREST IS SHOWN SIGN­

Need ride to and from Daytona Bell. for Urgently need 2 student or GA tickets for 
LOST or 'borrowed' from the South Dtntng October break. Will share usual Donna NEED USC TIX One student and G A NEEDED 4 NAVY GA TICKETS JOE. USC Game~ Will pay in U S Dollars UPS--OCT 1--9.30-10:30 PM. IN Hall-A blue windbreaker with 'LENOX' tn 2734 Call Steve 366 f. Steve 234 ~ 1539
8862 .LAFORTUNE BALLROOM PEOPLE ON 
THE WAITING LIST MUST BRINGorange on the back It means a lol to me 

$65.00 BY 10:00 P.M. TO RESERVE call Justin at 3110. Thanks AREA FOR IJCT BREAK! CALL TOM at Call Susan 41-4361 G A FOR MICH STATE CALL KEVIN THEIR SEATS PEOPLE NOT ON THE 1689' 6758 OR 6821 WAITING LIST ARE ASKED TO SIGN~ 
so if you know anything about if. please NEED A RIDE TO THE 0 C./SALT Need 2 GA MSU !IX Money is no Object. TICKETS I NECD 3 STUDENT AND 2 UP AFTER 10.00 PM THOSE ONE­
LOST. 1 Kodak camera tn a black case NEED!!! Two G~A TIX For M.S U Game 
PERSONALS 

with· bug" writlen on it. Was Siting in front MONEY NO OBJECT !!! Call Gordon W1ll pay or trade alrr1ost anyth1ng for Mtch WAYS WHO ARE ON THE WAITING of library on curb If you found it call Jane 3001. St. ttcket lor dad. Call M1ke a! 8657 LIST WILL BE ACCEPTED BUT WE at 7628. Reward 
CANNOT ACCOMODATE ANY ADDI­

[loR SALE 
ANN WEBER SAYS THE PRETTY GIRL HELP I NEED AN EX1 RA TICKET TO TIONAL ONE-WAY RIDERS (UNLESS FOUND: Brown sweater in O'Shag. Call 
DOESN'T NEED TICKETS. BUT HER 1HE MSU GAME HAVE 2 ~ WILLING SEX has notliing to do with the fact that I YOU WANT TO RIDE FROM DC~ TO 1764 Mike. ROOMMATES STILL DQ. SO IF YOU 1OT 0 TRADE FOR 3 AND PAY TE DIF­need 2 (two) GA or student tickets for N D) CAN HELP THEM OUT WITH GAS FOR FOR Mtchigan Enn
Couch for sale. good cond1tion. Call after FERENCE THIRD IN FACT. Stale PLEASE call at 4 p m. at 272-4457. 7515
LOST: Soccer Ball on Monday, Sept 28. ANY GAME CALL 6773. COULD USE AN EXTRA TICKET FOR M&M's approx. 9 PM at Cartter dunng St Ed's ~ EACH OF TE REMAINING HOME SURE TASTE SWEET' 
? have 
GAMES UNDER THE SAME ARRANGE~ paneled and clearly marked HUNK~ MSU,USC,and Ga Tech. ttcket I need TRADE FOR TICKETS CALL MONTY MENT-EXCEPT FOR FLORIDA STATE MUGS AND DAISY SALE Navy tickets,GA or STU . for traae call Jtm -GAGAME thts week mali d1n1ng halls 
Morrissey game The ball is black NEED TICKETS-I one NEED 2-4 NAVY GAs WILL PM OR SMC OKTOBERFEST G~J. 
Please contact M1ke Hunkler, 209 Morns­1068 NEED 3 FOR THA1 CALL HANG~ IN THERE BOO-BOO -I LOVE 
at 1380 
say, x3507. Thank You. DAVE I -3546 YOU"' 
DESPERATELY NEED 1 student & 2 EXPERIENCFD TYPIST WILL DC Lost: Whf. & Blue Sk1 Vest, probably ten 1n GAs for faMily. Please make a ntce g1rl TOP DOLLAR FOR USC GA CALl SUE TYPING. CALL 287~5162 JUNIORS & SENIORS GET A VISA. Hayes Healey classroom. Please call happy Call Nancy at SMC~~ 4435 (SMCt4889 MASTERCARD. OR SEARS CHARGE 
ENJOY NEEDLECRAFT?Turn your nob­CARD" APPLY AT SMC~LEMAN5 HALL.

Tom x1689 or lost and found. 
TICKETS 
DESPERATELY NEE[) 1 student & 2 MEGA BUCKS for 2 MSU lickcts. ca:, by into$$$$' Call Roste at 232-2116 4~6 THURS & FRI 11-1 30 IN LEMANS OR 
one G. As for M S U. Game Ple~se make a xl745 p m. da1ly. THURSDAY 4:30~6 151N DINING HALL wallet Please return to Ted 233-3552 Penn St !lcket wanted please call Donna nice girl Happ~ Call Nancy at SMC~ at6771 4435. NEED MSU 11CKETS FUR EX~ $$$$$$ N AS OR ALIAS NtNI 
LOST Green Field or thereabouts ­
ROOMMATES GIRLFRIENDS SIS~ ATLANTA' ATLANTA• ATLANTA' MiCHIGAN STATE IS THE SHOW­classroom. PLEASE return if found. Need MUST BUY FOUR MSU TIX FOR FAMI­F~S U student !lcket for sale Need an; TER S FIANCE AI. SO NEED USC (October break J DOWN'!" ~LL EYES WILL BE ON THE LOST small tan clutch purse in O'Shag 
1.0 's desperately Donna 2734. LY VISITING!! PLEASE CALL CAT. 1273 NAVYGA's Will buy or trade call4641 TICKETS. CALL MIKE 1071 I neAd a ndP. for fWQ II you are gomg IO Or PRINCESS!! I HOPE AlL GOES WELL 
th1ough WI! I shar~ dttvtng and el(penses RAH·RAH RAH YLR LOST: Head Tenms Racket at E line Need 4 MICH ST t1x Please Call 1827 WILL PAY ANY1 HING FOR SOUTHERN URGE NT need lwr MSU t•x student or GA Call Jcb '8649 North Dintng shelves on 9~ 18 Please call CAL STUDENT TICK Eo TS CALL DAN 234 A1LANTA'A1LAN1A'ATIANTA' BILLY BACHUS Tom at 1470 2 GA FLORIDA STATE TIX NEEDED 1441 Happv 21st B1nrtday1tlt1 
BADLY MONEY NO OBJECT Bub 234-For SALE slUdent USC Besl olfet Laura Spare Ttme Advert!smg Salespe-rson Its oruy r1g111 that one of the f111.e most 0418 I NEED 2-4 GAS FOR FSU $$$ CAll 2858 wantf!d fo~ local a!l·ernattVe news· paper IJDpular guy~ on campus ts FINALLY a DAVE 277~5883 20 percent COMMISSION CALL Mark or mat or I ype Beware of LSA T aftermath W1ll pay top$ for NO-USC game 11ckets vVia trade ANY sludent llc.ket fo; d M1ch M1ke al 232-0854 a her 4 p m a type IS a wonderful thmg to waste' 
FOR RENT 
Need 6 tickets, best location ava1lable THE TIME IS NEAR I need 2 GA t" for St. C:JA trx Call Rocco al8556 Please call collect (714)835-6505 ask for FSU Wtll pay$$$ Call Henry at 1480 COPY EDITOR NEEDED TO WORK Marc1a Tony Herenda or Judi Carlos. NEED 2 NAVY GA TIX. CALL SUSAN SUNDAY EVENING SHIFT. PAID POSI· 1-low are all of your ktds? You certa1nly 
RENT TO OWN A COLOR TV OR NEED several GAs for MSU call J1m 1593 ·~020! TION. ENGLISH MAJORS have. been busy II d1dn·t know you had 1! m STEREO CALL SUN APPLIANCE 291-Need 4 MSU and 4 USC GA !IX. John PREFERRED. CALL LYNNE AT THE you! Should I ask about the fatherls)? 5112 1001 FLA ST II' I M DESPARATE·WILL PAY OBSERVER--1715. 
Desperately need 2 or 4 GA M1ch1gan ANYtHING FOR TIXS JENNY 41-4507 Mom 1nCA Student houstng, clean. safe, laundry. DESPERATELY NEED USC TIX AM State ttx. Call Cathy-8085. Tric1a hkes peaches. Well. maybe tusf the I ran out of malathiOn and the fru1t fhes are 
kttchen, rated supenor. $100 includes all. WILLING TO TRADE ROLLING STONE NEED MSU TICKETS CALL CHOW 7289 fuzz after me Send me cook1es. the only sure 291-1405. TIX TO DETROIT SHOW NOV.30 Need 2 MSU ttx (student or GA) lor PREFER GAs, BUT MIGHT SETTLE brothers Call Ted 8424 MB choose your appendengagesl!! Your lov1ng son 
Female roomate needed to share com­FOR STL:DENT TIX CALL CHRIS AT FOR SALE. One MSU Studenl Ttx Call fortable two bedroom house near 
1678 Help! Need 2 or more t1x to any home Tom at x3176 after 6. Duck. cute couples' Meva don· like that BOST-QN BUS SIGNUP. MONDAY. 7-8. 
campus~ call 289-6731 game. Call Maureen at 284-4156 $$$ Bang! But she mtsses Bnan LaFortune. Br1119 $110, tncludes all TWO GA FSU TICKETS. MONEY NO I need 4 GAs for MSU W1ll pay $45 cash OBJECT CALL BOB 234-0418. WANTED: 2 GA's or 1 GA & 1 stud t1x to per pa11 or $95 for 4 together. Call JC at MSU student fix or NAVY GA needed HELLO COLLEENI 
FSU call VINCE xl238 8446 wh1le he st1ll has money tmmed1ately·M1ke 8854 
Have four Navy GAs Would like to trade The qoute of year as submitted by A.W. for FSU GAs~ W1ll also sell Call 8111 at Desperately need two GA twkets lot· need 3 USC Gas wtll pay $50 each. Steve Volunteers mterested in all aspects ot of Farley: "A Mrs. degree Is more Im­>6251. M.S.U game Ticket• for Alumnt of class 1854 JOUrnalism work. Call M1ke Knaack ~ 232~ portant than a PhD." You've got to be
WANTED 
of 56. If you can help out please caii.01ck 0654; Monday & Wednesday morn1ngs: kidding, I mean.... Desp~rately need 2 or4 FSU ttx~ Please af x3279 or at x3263. FLORIDA! FLORIDA I or after 4:00pm. call Lisa at 6648 (tiCkets) 0 What was wrong w1th the Yukon fad 
I NEED 2 NAVY G~A ·s ---$$$ CALL I need TWO GA. sand TWO student tick­Volunteers needed to help supervtse 20 who loved h1s mother very much? WANTED: GA's FOR ANY HOME Need t1x for October 3 Mich St. game PAUL6452 ets to the Flonda St. game~ I pay mucho 9-14 yr. olds with thetr homework. Two A He had an Oedimoose complex. of GAMES, CALL PAUL 8509 Call Beth. 6945. ;~ dtnero. OK? Call Jim at 8641 sesstons/week. Tuesday & Thursday at courset 
NEED MANY FSU TIX (GA). WILL PAY 4:00 at St. Hedwtck:s Pansh Call Lynn H1, Shirley DESPERATELY need FL. ST. TIX--ST or DESPARATELY NEED MSU TIX! CALL BIG BUCKS AND FIRST BORN Parents fhreatemng me!·~-H~Ip! Need 3 Fall at Neighborhood Outreach Program: Espec1ally for you GA--call Steve-8655 JULIE 269-6731 SON~CALL TOM -1175 FSU GAs. Call6nan 4521. 287-6932. The Restless Shade of Moose Control 

The Observer will accept classifieds Mon­day through Friday, 10 a.m. to 4:30 p.m~ However. classifieds to appear in the next issue must be received by 3 p.m. the business day prior to insertion. All classifieds must be prepaid,

Classifieds either in person or through the Mail. 






---~--~ 
The Observer Thursday, October 1, 1981 -page 11 

FALL'S THE TIME FOR 



'HiinJon 


. All four stores are joining the celebration! 
!COMPARE COMPARE COMPARE COMPARE 
l 
Compare our prices on any item .•• any day . • • any week •.• any month ••. anywhere 
•.• any way. You'll find, as thousands have, thot our prices are consistently lower than our competition. Here is a partialli5t for your comparison ••• 
CANADIAN c.n.o.. Clllt •••••••••••••••••••••1.75 '11" vo ------------------------------1.75 117•C.•••• LTD .....................1.75 11.?9 Windsor --------------------------1.75 '12" 
CenM· au.________________..___,1 •1o-Clnllliaa Supnme .................1.75 •1r 
BOURBON £lltr Tiates •••••••••••••••••••••••1.75 '1211 Jack 0..ills •••••••••••••••••••••••1 L 111• ' lllltil&tr &......................1.75 •u• Ten Hlp ••.••..••••••••••.•••••••1.75 '11" 
11211 
........................1 L 6.98 1.75 
BLEND 
'1311 Pllilldelpbil•••••••••••••••••••••••1.75 '1GB ltssltr ••••••••••••••••••••••••••1.75 11~ Clhert •••• -•••••••••-•••• 1.75 '12• 
VODKA er.. ._-------------------·--1-JI 9.98 Cenlllls-•• ···-••·-••-••• -•• --.-••1.75 10.39 Dirt E,.. ·······················--' L 5.59 Dart Ern •••••••.•••..••••.••••..u5 '10" C..... ...........................1 L 5.49 lalllchltka ••••••••••••••••••••••••1 L 4.98 , ....................1.75 8.79 
GIN c.r-...........................1.75 11.98 Btllows --------------------------1.75 1951 leotlls •••••••••••••••••••••••••••t.75 '1111 Fltischman •••••••••••••••••••••••1.75 11.49 
SCOTCH c.tlr Slrt ••••••••••••••••••••••••1.75 '2211 llaclintosh ••••••••••••••••••••••1.75 L 12.29 J & I ---------·--·---------------1.71 '22'1 IICilintolh ------------------------1L 7.19 
.,..... -----.-•• -••• --•••• --••• -••1.75 1,3.19 
RUM 
IACARDI •••••••••••••••••••••••••t.75 '1211
IACAIDI -·-----------·-------·---1 L'7" 
LIQUEURS s.tlllnl c..t.t -·-····-·----·----1.75 '15• 
Hln111 Walker Brandies ••••••••••••••tL '6"" ........, .........................1 L rr' Christian Brothers BrandJ ••••••••••••tL 8.49 Jliram Walbr Ptppennlnt Schnapps ••••1 L •s•
lalllla ·----------·····--·----·-··751 .... 
CASE DISCOUNTS 



LIQUOR FULL CASE ---------10% SPLIT CASE ---------5% WINE MIXED CASE -----., _10% FULL CASE_------_ -15% 
THIS AD CONTAINS ONLY 
A PARTIAL UST OF OUR 
EVERYDAY LOW PRICESI 
We're cheap ••• 
aslc ~ur competitfonl 


WAREHOUSE LIQUORS 
Original 4401 West Ireland and 1723 O'Hanlon'& Weatem lronw-d Road South lend Ave. 
Uncolnway East (Phoenix Plaza In the New the comer of and Ironwood nearMartfn'sl Ireland Square Yane11 & St. Rd. 23 
I 
1 
' 
*JUG WINES * 
, •••••SL 
Almaden Mountain: ---• ----:----.u ' " 
Sebastiani Mountain ---·-• • _____ .n 8 taylor Cal~. te\\ars----·::: •••• --u '611 cart4J RoSSI ------~~QIIWis. _ .u 'T'11 lnglenook Ma1=::'"'~~.:--_.n '1 
Ga\\o Rhine,....,.... 
pOPULAR WINES * '2"
* .........lSIW. , 4• 
Andre Champagnes --• ______no • ~~~• ers Rose -----------now. -,.
l anc I et Cbamp ----------'3se
Jacques on ___________no 111. , C"ateau taSalle-------no• 411 

'" ---·-~ 
Blue M~n 1----.-A~i:::: ________noiiL ,4se 
Martini & OSSI _______no • , • a .. l\a Soave -----------___ u L 5 
uv • bruSCO-----------'3• 
Riunite ~m &Red Port --------• -u L '421
Gallo Whitt ____ •___ .lSI• Mateus Rose --••----. ~•-tioa• . , . 
_...... on our wtnt ..,...., 
e...U. OUra~P"­

W 1"'_.. nt1 who are •~·­we hart~wHII.,., we hart tltt ,...,.... ••• COfllll 
Class of '65
Owner: John O'Hanlon 
onS 
..
• 



~-----------------------------------­
The Observer-Sports Thursday, October 1, 1981 -page 12 
• • • Jungle 

continuedfrom page 16 
Phelps hypothesizes. "You mean to tell me I have a chance when I go in there and tell the kid that Notre Dame is the greatest place in he world, but he'll have to work his butt off in class?" 
It's happening all over the country. The NCAA is currently in­vestigating UCLA for n:portedly giving automobiles to Rod Foster, Darren Day and others in an effort to get them to enroll in the school. San Francisco recently came off proba­tion for making illegal payments to a player. An investigation has been conducted into the practices ofWic­hita State in Kansas and Iona in New York. 
"I'm telling you, it's a jungle Obt there," Phelps says. "And the worst thing is, the NCAA is doing nothing about it. 
."The president of USC publicly admits that over 300 athletes were admitted to the school who never should have been. and that athletic department officials had been in­volved with the admissions process. What did the NCAA do? Nothing. The president of the university ad­mits that they cheated and the NCAA looks the other way. Unbelievable." 
Phelps has been talking to basket­
ball people all over the country, and 
he says he's amazed at the stories 
he's hearing. 
"Rumor has it that we lost three 
recruits last year for a total of 
S120,000. Each one of them got 
$40,000. I guess 40 grand is the 
going rate. It used to be 20. 
"They tell me I lost a recruit the year before for 40,000 bucks, too. You'd think the price would've gone up in a year." 
If you're wondering how schools get away with it, pull up a chair, and take a lesson from Digger. He's 
checked it out. 
"It's all cash," he says. "There's no way anyone can prove anything. All a coach has to do is call a big booster, somebody who's a good friend. That guy contacts two other people, who each raise some of the money needed. They pay the kid them­selves, and the coach is never in­volved in any way. There's no way to trace anything back to him. 
"Sometimes the kids are bought off, sometimes it's their parents, and more often than not, the high school coach is dealing as well. There are a lot of coaches out there living in houses you just can't buy on a high school teacher's salary." 
:\<Ioney is not the only problem out there in the basketball world, al­though it is the biggest problem. There is a new. almost unmentioned violation going on. It's difficult to catch, and becoming more and more widespread. 
NCAA regulations say that in or­
der for a player to enroll in a school 
and participate in intercollegiate 
athletics, he must have a 2.0 
cumulative grade point average in 
high school. Once they get to col­
lege, they must maintain a 1.8 GPA 
to remain eligible. 
"Here's what's going on, though," 
Phelps says. "A school signs a kid to a 
national letter of intent in April. But 
he doesn't have a 2.0. Who's going to 
check on him? If you do, the NCAA calls it tampering. So, in the second semester of his senior year, he mys­teriously gets all A's, and his average just makes it up to 2.0. 
"The college is covered, because the kid has the 2.0 coming in. But he didn't have it when they signed him. There are some awfully funny things happening to players' grades in their last semesters, let me tell you." 
Reports are wide-spread of major 
. 

cheating in basketbalL Accounts of players from single-family homes driving brand-new cars shortly before or after signing to play at a given _school are common. 
"What's to stop them? The judge told Ellenberger that w~ht he did was alright, and let him go. Then El­
lenberger comes out and says that if he gets another coaching job, he'll do it over again the same way. 
"The guy will probably get a job, too." Phelps is at a double disadvantage. He refuses to cheat, and Notre 
Dame's academic standards are far higher than those of most schools. To be accepted here, an athlete must have a minimum of 16 college preparatory units, and three years of college prep math. ­
"Coaches are visiting players and saying, 'You don't need a degree, you are going to get a million dollar pro contract.' How can I compete with that?" Phelps wonders aloud. "I go in and tell a kid that he has to go to class, and I'm not going to give him cash or a car. Do you think he's 
going to listen to me?" 
"You have maybe 10-20 percent of the major schools who never cheat, either getting kids in or keeping them in school," Phelps says. "Those teams are usually in the tournament anyway. But now, they 
are going to expand the tournament to 64 teams. Hell, you've already got the honest guys, so all you're doing is letting in 16 more outlaw teams!" 
There will be basketball recruits visiting Notre Dame in a steady stream over the next two months. and Phelps is confident that he will get tht: personnel he is looking for. 



C"fC~ OVT OUR 
S004 ~lft~NI~E 
~~ ~ERS ' t» f ~~ 
~ ~cot~~'-.n,f, R£tQ.8P, 'J. 
r-------------------------------, 


Givethegiftofmusic. 
C () · C ()jS 
Beautv and the BPat 



.. 
Sports Special -Cross Country Thursday, October 1, 1981 -page 13 
At age 27 


Wozniak lives out dream 

ByEARLRIX 
Sports lf'riter 
It was a childhood dream of Marc Wozniak to come to Notre Dame. At thl· age of 27, the five-time junior college All-American has finally made it, and he is one of the reasons why prospects for this year's Irish cross country season are so good. 
\X'ozniak brings a penchant ti>r hard work and a record of proven sUClTSS from Southwestern Michi­gan Junior College. In addition to achieving All-American status tlvt· times, Wozniak ran for the li.S. Cross Country team and was the top American tlnisher at the \X' orld Stu­dent Cross Country Champinnships. In June he became the National 
Junior College Champion in the 
• marathon with a time of 2:27.-t I. In order to get to Notre Dame, Wozniak has had to get good grades at Southwestern Michigan, support his wife and three children, and run extremely well uvcr the past two years. Wozniak turned down several scholarship offers after high school and decided to go to work. He said he fell into a routine of having a couple of beers after work and slow­ly got out out shape. "A few times I walked up a tlight of stairs and got winded," says Wozniak. 
After a five year layotl he decided to get back into shape and started running again. "I guess I wanted a challenge and started running more," says Wozniak. "I increased the distance and started reading things about running and trving 
them out... 
He also started winning races, including a marathon with a time of 2:2H. He caught the attention of the track coach at Southwestern Michi­gan and was offered a scholarship. He accepted it. Wozniak says, "When I wasn't in school I realized that I wasn't going to get anywhl·re without an education." 
While at Southwestern Michigan, Wozniak artracted a lot of anention from tiJUr-year institutions, indud­ing Notre Dame. "I had 2'i or .;o scholarship offers from other schools," Wozniak says, "but I held them to the side and kept hoping and praying that I would get ac­ceptcd to Notre Dame. It was a dream col11c true. It fulfilled a lot of other requirements in addition to fulfilling my dream because I didn't have to tlnd another job or rdocate. 
"A major difference is that now my classes arc during the day and I can tlnish my studying at a decent hour. The last two years my classes were at night and I'd have to study after them," Wozniak adds. "I generally get in an early fUll at about 
look to Marc as an example of someone who is achieving the im­possible. lie's an inspiration to the other team members. You know that he's going to perform well day in and day out. He's a settling influence." 
Irish head coach joe Piane says he first noticed Marc two years ago, "There was no way he could get into Notre Dame. He went to a junior col­kge and got his gradl·s up. lie worked his tail off. It was a dream of hb to come to ND and it's come true. Another dream of his is to graduate, which I'm sure that he'll do." 
Wozniak is majoring in economics and plans to work in advertising or marketing following his graduation. lie also plans to at­tend summer school this year so that he can catch up on credits and graduate with his class. 
At the age of 27, Wozniak is nowherl· nl·ar being over tilt.' hill. lie should be reaching his physiological peak in the next couple of }'l'ars. According to Pianc, "Most distance runners don't reach their peaks until their later twenties." 
This year Wozniak purposdy 
6 a.m. In the afternoons we have till·. postponed some of his distanct.· team workout. Because I have tilur work so that he wouldn't peak too classes on .'vlonday, Wedensday, and early in the season. lie bdkvcs that Friday. I make Tuesdays and some of his teammates did likewise. Thursdays my heavy work days. Be-"I think that you will sec this team causl· I work at a piece rate, I only improve each week and do very have to work about 2'i hours a week. wdl. Wl·'re a unique group and we I'm tlying because I've got to make all have something to offer -that's my time count. I spend my cvl·nings what is going to make us successful. 
with my family and doing my You've got to believe in yourself and homework," Wozniak says. I think this group rl·ally dot.·s ­Senior co-captain Tony llatherly morl· than any group I've ever hl'l'll says, "The other athletes on the tl·am associated with." 
Oct. 2


Irish face tough road ahead 
By EARLRIX 
sJwr/s Writer 
The Notre Dame lTosss country 
ll'am will fan· tough competition as 
it hosts till' :'\lotrc Dame lnvitatation­
al on Friday at the Burkt· .\krnorial 
( ioll Ctntrse. 
The oldest and largest collegiate 
inviational in till' countn will 
tl-atun· I H teams in the Blue Division 
starting at .! p.m., and .!H teams in the 
(,old Division starting at .~:00 with 
thl· Open Division starting at ·1 p.m. 
:-.<otn· Dame will run in the tirst race, 
which features largl· universities. 
The Sl'l'OIId ran· will include smaller 
college and universities amlthc tlnal l'Vl·nt is lor unnattachl·d runners. 
Tht· Irish harrins \\Trt' im­prnsivt· in shutting out Ohio State I wo weeks ago, and looked good in finshii1g second to ,\lart.)Ul'tle at the :'llational Catholics last week. 
The team has been a hit-w run as a pad. and maintain \Try good team spirit. This Wl'l'kend'~ pertimnancc should hdp determine whether or not the tl·am will continue its im­pron·mt·nt <tnd realize it~ early Sl·a~on promise and potential. "This is a very prestigious meet and we'd really likt· to run wdl," said Irish Ikad Coad1 Joe l'ianc. "This mt'l't can indicatl' a lot for till' futurl·." 
The compl·tition thi~ week will he thl· toughc~t thl· Irish han· faced this }Tar. "The l'tllll))l'tition is so much lwttl'f than last week that there is no comparison," said l'ianc. "The two teams that t il'd ti>r the Big Tl·n crown, .'vlichigan and Indiana, will hl· hl·rc as wl'll as Purdue ·and <)hio ~tatl·. Ea~tern Michigan, Western Michigan. Northern Illinois and Bowling (inTn will represent the .'vlid-Amcrica Conkrl·nn·. "Also fl·turning is last year's surprise tl·am, :'vlalonl· College from Canton. Ohio, which placed Sl'l'llllll in the :'\~AlA's last year aftn taking tinJflh in the .'Ootrc !lame lnvitalional. 
l'hl Irish hope to improve um­sidcrahl\ upon last 'car·, dis­sappointing I (Jth place lin ish. The Irish arc hoping to place in tlw top 
live this )Tar. "If we can run in the 
top th-e this weekend." Pianc 
said," I'm sure we can qualify a team .li>r the NCAA's." 
1\'larc Wozniak, Ralph Caron, Andv 
Dillon, Tim Novak, Ed \\'ilknbrink, 
Tim Cannon. and John Adams will 
start li>r the Irish on Friday "All of 
them arc running well in practice," 
said Pian e ... Each one of these Sl'\Tn 
guys has to run well this Wl-ckcnd. If 
tlwy do we can place higher than 
11fth. The guys have 10 realize that 
they arc darn good, because they 
really arc." 
Notrl' Dame will he led lw sopho-

NAME John Adams Tim <:annon 
Ralph <:aron Andy Dillon Tim Novak Ed \\'ilknbrink Marc Wozniak 
Oct. I 0  
more  Ralph Caron, who paced the  Oct. 16  
lrbh last weekend by tlnishing sixth  Oct. 24  
at  the  National  Catholic  Meet.  Nov. 14  
"Ralph appears  to  be in excellent  Nov. 23  
shapl·," said senior co-captain Tony  
liatherly.  "lie  looks  so  good  in  

workouts, he's in a class by himself. l think Ralph is capable of tlnishing in thl' top I0." 
llathnly abo cited Tim Novak'~ n.-cul! pcrti>rmancc. "Tim Novak is rapidly improving and he should ex­pect a furthur <kcrease in his time this Friday," llathnly said. "I think Novak and Caron arc thl· keys for l'rilhty." 
IRISH STARTERS 
CLASS  HOMETOWN  
Fr.  Jackson. :\1iss.  
Fr.  Bloomfield Heights, Miss.  
So.  Orland Park, IlL  
So.  Redh>rd, Mich.  
So.  Chestt:rton, Ind.  
So.  Louisville, Ken.  
.Jr.  South Bend, Ind.  

1981 Cross Country Schedule 
NO INVITATIONAL  NOTRE DAME  
FLA. STATE  NOTRE DAME  
State Chmpsps  \X'. Lafayt.'tte, Ind.  
Ct.'ntral Collt.'giatt.'S  Yspilanti, Mich.  
NCAA District IVs  Milwaukee, Wis.  
NCAA Nationals  Wichita, Kan.  

"· 



The Observer-Sports Thursday, October 1, 1981 -page 14 
Herdegen tallies twice 
Irish defeat Blue Demons 


Former Notre Dame star forward Kelly Tripucka signed a con­Lucrative contract tract yesterday with the Detroit Pistons that reportedly guarantees him 1600,000 over the next three years. See story below. (Photo by johnMacor) 

Tripucka signs with Pistons 

By HARRY ATKINS Tripucka, a 6-6, 230 pound for­round draft choices for the Pistons 
AssociatedPress ward, denied reports that he didn't in the 1981 college draft, gives want to play for Detroit. However, Detroit a complete roster for the PONTIAC, Mich. -The Detroit the Bloomfield, N.J., native admitted opening of training camp. Pistons yesterday announced the he would rather have played in the Tripucka averaged more than 1 S 
-Campus Masse 
every Sunday-
signing of former Notre Dame star East where he was raised. points a game over a span of I 12 Kelly Tripucka to a muliyear Nation­games in four seasons at Notre 
al Basketball Association contract. Dame, where he led the Fighting Although terms, of the contract Irish in scoring in each of his last were not disclosed, it has been three seasons. 
Bulla Shed--7:30pm 
'I'm here to play

Campusview--11 pm 
reported that Tripucka's contract Tripucka closed out his college covers three years and guarantees career as Notre Dame's fourth
54631 Irish Way 
him $600.000 whether or not he leading scorer with 1,719 points be­
and I'll give 

makes the team. hind Austin Carr, Adrian Dantley and
Apt. 206 
Detroit Coach Scotty Robertson ·Tom Hawkins. 
~"i''!;V­
said he expected to use Tripucka as a "Being part of a winner as I have 
....;t!r;: ·<\,,.. '~r 
small forward and guard when the been in my lifetime, I don't want to
my best.' 

Pistons open training camp Friday at start being a loser now," Tripucka the University of Michigan's Crisler said i1. reference to the Pistons' dis­Arena in Ann Arbor. ''I'm just happy as hell to be mal record the past several seasons.
tO! 
t 
"Detroit is a working man's town playing anywhere," Tripucka said. "I can understand what they (the where people roll up their sleeves "There are a lot ofpeople who never Pistons) went through, only win­and get their hands dirty," Robertsn get this chance. I'm here to play and ning 21 games last year, but you've said. "In my opinion, Kelly typifies I'll give my best." got to start somewhere. that kind of spirit. When the ball The signing of Tripucka, who "I'm a firm believer in a good at­game is on the line, and there's one along with Indiana All-American titude. I'm going to get that attitude second to go, Kelly wants that ball." Isiah Thomas was one of two frst-across-even though I'm a rookie." 
ND Women
ISMCOKTOBERFEsT---~ 
1 October 1 behind Angela I Volleyball team drops two
I
I Band Tent 8 pm -llpm ByJANE HEALEY The Irish met the Belles once al­Van Slager hopes that this fierce Sports Writer ready this season in the Saint Mary's rivalry won't work against the team Invitational. Notre Dame lost that instead ofhelping them. "We have to
I Live German Music 1 
In their first home tri-meet of the match, 17-1 S and 1 5-6. But the team view the St. Mary's match just like season, the Notre Dame volleyball won't let that get them down. On the any other. We can't forget that we
I I 
team dropped both matches to make contrary, they will try to use the pre­have to play Indiana before we evenI ,I their record 5-8. In the first match, vious loss to their own advantage. face Saint Mary's. We want to beat1 music b_y 1 Notre Dame was solidly defeated by Co-captain Jackie Pagley explains, the Belles, but we also want to beat 
Indiana State, 1S-3, 15-0. The Irish "Sure Saint Mary's beat us once. But Indiana and any other team we1 Mug WRBR 1 came back in their second match, that doesn't mean they'll do it again. play."I Specials 1 giving Saint Joseph's a real battle If anything, it gives us a sense of Pagley agrees with her coach. She 
I I 
before finally losing, 14-16, 16-14, vengeanc,e. We want to even the says, "Coach's philsophy is right. We and 1S-12. score by beating them on our home want to beat Indiana, but we really want to ring those Belles.
"I think the girls were a little nerv­tcrr t itory." 
ous in that first match," commented 
I I 
Coach Van Slager. "After the initial shock of playing at home finallyI I wore off, the Indiana game was over. We didn't really start playing our 
I I 
1Knockwurst, Pretzels., _ I Observer erratum 
game until the St. Joe's match."1 Taffy Apples, Bobbing for apples, I The Irish have one day of practice to regroup before they meet Indiana A column in Monday's edition of defensive coach at Santa Clara. He
1 k~to~ 1 University of Fort Wayne and Saint The Observer incorrectly stated the rejoined the Cal-Berkeley staff as of­Mary's tomorrow night. That tri­Notre Dame defensive line coach fensive line coach in 1977 before meet will take place in the ACC Pit had never before been a defensive coming to Notre Dame, where he 
_, I BIERGARTEN I starting at S p.m. The St. Mary's vs. line coach. In fact, Bill Meyers also served as offensive line coach Notre Dame rivalry will be the last served in that capacity for four years prior to this season. We apologize match ofthe night beginning around at Cal-Berkeley. He later served for this error.IL (21 ID required) Jl 7p.m. three seasons as linebacker and 
By RICK KRIST 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame soccer team started its five-game home stand with a bang and extended its un­beaten streak this season to ten games yesterday by soundly beating DePaul, 6-0. The Irish dominated every aspect of the game and out­shot their opponent, 42 to 5. 
Playing against a weak opponent gave coach Rich Hunter a chance to use a host of players. A total of .10 players were dressed for the game, including ten freshmen. 
The game, originally scheduled for Alumni Field, was instead played at the Stepan Field, due to wet grounds at Alumni. The team is hoping that Alumni will be ready for the important Michigan State con­test tomorrow at 4 p.m. 
Although the win was a convinc­ing one, the Irish missed on several scoring opportunities, something a good team can not afford to do often. "I feel we played well," comments coach Rich Hunter. "Our passing game was good, and we played well 
together. The only thing I was dis­
sapp~inted in was our shooting." 
Ed O'Malley started the scoring 
less than two minutes into the game with his fifth goal of the season. 
O'Malley's role at halfback is offense­
orientated and he ranks fourth on 
the team in scoring this season. 
Freshman Richard Herdegen, 
from Somerset, England, made it 2-0, ·at the 37:30 mark, on a rebound of a Sami Kahale headball, which hit the crossbar. Defenseman .Jim Stein got 
the assist as he set up Kahale's head­
ball with a centering pass from the 
corner. 
Ed Williams capped off the first 
halfscoring with just IS seconds left 
in the half, to make it 3-0. 
As the second half began, Notre 
Dame's dominance was even more 
obvious and Hunter began substitut­
ing often, on one occasion sending 
in virtually a whole new team. 
Sami Kahale added his eighth goal 
of the year on a penalty shot at the 
54:36 mark. Kahale leads the team in scoring this season with eight goals and eight assists, ahead of Mario Manta, (eight goals, four assists) who sat out because of tendonitis in his heel. He hopes to be able to r'~y tomorrow. 
"My condition is improving," states Manta. "My foot feels better now than it ever has since I injured it. I think I'll be able to play against Michigan State, but you never can be sure." 
Herdegen tallied his second goal ofthe game and fifth ofthe season on a line drive into the corner of the net. the assist going to O'Malley. The goal occured at the 67:04 mark, and gave the Irish a S-0 lead. 
Sophomore Rob Snyder, who ranks third in team scoring, capped off the scoring for the Irish with eight minutes left in the game. He now has six goals and five assists on the season. 
The Irish now have a genuine chance at an NCAA playoff berth. However, it won't be easy. Notre Dame now ranks eighth in their region and.are scheduled to play five games against teams ranked ahead of them. Hunter feels the next four games (all at home) will be impor­tant in deciding the team's fate. 
"The next few games will be cru­cial in deciding whether or not we make it to the playoffs. We'll be facing a lot of teams in our region and several of them are ranked ahead of us." CORNER KICKS ­In addition to facing Michigan State tomorrow, the Irish will host Chicago on Sunday (2 p.m.. Alumni Field), Marquette a week from Friday, and Wisconsin the following Sunday. 

---------------------------~---~----------~~----~-----­
_The~,=Obset:ver========-== 







~c:>c:llC3L~~===========================T;h=u=rs=d=ay=,=O=c=to=b=e=r=l=,=l9=8=1===p=a=g=e=1~5
Molarity 


Michael Molinelli 
AH I TH£ ONLY ONE vJf.IO FiNDS IT /PiDNlC. 71-IAT FK. NI£UWL.ANP, A I'J0/1AN CATHDLIC Pf'1/£ST JNIIE"NTEP 
SYNTH£T/C. r:uBf>E"R? 
Garry Trudeau 
14/AU 5lllEeT! N&IMX/S. fW All£ itlh JITTlll<t. OtP BOYr arr OF 

Jeb Cashin 



Campus 
•t2:30 
pm -film, "seeds of liberty", Iafortune ballroom, sponsored by latin american awareness week. 

• 
2:20 pm -speech, marge andrysiak, director of personnel, stapleton lounge, sponsored by smc college w career days. 

• 
3:30 pm -computer mini-course, intro to computirg with pascal, rm 1 1 5 ccmb, sponsored by computing center. 

•4 
pm -lecture, "phosphorus removal in municipa. treatment plants of lower great lakes" dr. joseph v. depinto, clarkson college of technol­ogy, rm 254 fitzpatrick hall, sponsored hy depart· ment ofcivil engineering. 

•4:30 
pm -speech, doris wilke mikesell, director of public relations rko general, inc. stapleton lounge, sponsored by smc college to career days. 

•5 
pm -seminar, human rights, 600 memorial library, sponsored by thomas more society. 

•6 
pm -speech, rosi lopez, medical student, iupui, sponsored by smc college to career days. B6:30pm -meeting, AIESEC, Lafortune Little Theater. 

• 
7 pm -panel discussion, college to career days speakers, stapleton lounge. 

• 
7 pm -· film, "sound of music", carroll hall smc. 

•7 
pm -slide show, "machines, migrams, and monopolie~ an agricultural crisis", rm 123 nieuwland, sponsored by farm labor organizing committee, all welcome. 

•7:30 
.,r.. -film, "gun crazy", annenberg aud. 

•8 
pm -h:cturc, "china today: chinese views on the soviet union and world politics", dr. rob't f. byrnes, indiana univ-bloomington, sponsored by helen kellogg ir.stitute. 

•8-1
I pm -biergarten, behind angela athletic facility, spo'1sored by oktoberfest. 

•8 
pm -faculty recital, jeffrey jacob on piano, little theatre. 

• 
8: 1 5 pm -meeting, arts and letters student ad­visory council, cce, sponsored by college of arts and letters. 

• 
8: 1 5 pm -meeting, alumni board of directors, cce, sponsored by university of notre dame. 

•9·1 
I prr. -open stage night, nazz, Iafortune rathskellar, a!l welcome. 




Television 



The Daily Crossword 
11  12  13  




1981 by Chicago Tribune-N.Y. News Synd. Inc. All Rights Reserved 
ACROSS Drakes and cobs 
6 Head man 10 Offend 14 Falsewing 15 Willow 
genus 16 Novello 17 Baker's 
utensil 19 Strange: 
comb. form 20 Devoured 21 Evans or 
Carnegie 22 "Valse-" 24 Put on 
freight 25 Family group 
26 Mixed tongues 29 Strengthen· 
ing rims 32 ICBM 33 Fricassee 34 Windmill 
part 36 St. Paul's 
architect 37 Gleamed 38 Pulitzer 
author, 
1958 39 O'Fiaherty 40 Wan 41 Drew or 
Glasgow 42 First books 44 Depositors 45 Dec.25 
7:00p.m. 
7:30p.m~ 
8:00p.m. 
8:30p.m. 
9:00p.m. 
!O:OOp.m. 
!0:30p.m. 
11:00 p.m. 11:30 p '11. 


Tonight 
16 Country <ialaxy ofStars with Md Til­lis 
22 Magnum Pl 
28 .\1ork & !\Iindy 
34 Washington Week in Review 
46 Miracle Revival Hour 
28 lkst of the West 
34 Wall Street Week 
46 W.V. (;ran! 
22 Nur~t· 
28 The Manions of America Part 2 
34  Enterprise  
46  LeMer  Sumrall  Teaching,  "Ilow  to  
cope with fear"  
34  lkn Wattenberg at Large  
46  Pattern for Living  

16 Sophisticated Gents, Parr 5 of.~ 
22 Knots Landing 
34 !'iring Line 
46 Today with Les!er Sumrall 
16 :'\:ew~ Center 16 
-2 22 Eyewitness News 
28 :"<ewswatch 2H 
34 The Dick Cavett Show 
46 jack Van lmpe 
16 Tonight Show 
:n ()uincy The Saint 
28 ABC News Nightline 
34 Captioned ABC News 
46 l';tith for Today 
28 Vegas 
46 Praise tht· Lord 
16 Tomorrow Coast to Coast 
46 Thun's river 47 Excited 
speaker 50 Indigo plant 51 Unseld or Santee 
54 -Ben Adhem 
55 Bartender 
58 Malt drink 
59 Waterless 
60 Midler 
61 Otiose 
62 Winning margin 63 Frome 
DOWN 1 Household lady 2 Touched 
ground 3 De -(posh) 4 Whitney 5 Huaraches 6 Scripture 7 Indian 8 Baste 9 Utah city 
10 Plumbing device 11 Composer 
Charles 12 Assortment of type 13 Cleaving tool 18 Rambles 
23 Flowed 
24 Result of a carburetor adjustment 
25 Alter ego, in a sense 26-out (scold) 27 Raised, as 
an anchor 28 Dim 29 Jesters 30 Golf feat 31 Grimace 33 Burns 35 Nights, for 
Jonson 37 Oldtime 
soldier 41 Otic part 43 -deStael 44 Lateen, 
for one 46 Positive pole 47 Physicist, 
lsidor 48 Slumbering 49 Carol 50 WWII 
group 51 Beside 52 Como-
usted? 53 British gun 56 Postwar 
relief agcy. 57 Progeny 

············································~ 
GW&W~&~G~ALa.Oa~BEG~VE Jli'~~"JJW:I.:I ~:Ii::llilaR~_, • 
... CIDU'Iill&1"Lr .• ~ CDCID~~rnTI' illCIDCDm rn~ ·f 
.... :ll'::f1::Illi.il'% CG'a:, !I Wteill ' 
.... special: 12 oz cokes for 154 in the club ! ! ! 


~--·-----.-------~-------·---·---------~---~--------------­
r 
Thursday, October 1, 1981 -page 16




Snorts 
Faith helps Oliver with pressure 
By MIKE MONK footbal completed its journey, look ahead to the next opportunity." Sports Writer gliding through the beckoning Oliver's story certainy makes a uprights 51 yards away. strong case for the power of God. 
A hushed silence descnded upon Such is the stuff that legends are His developing success in the kick­the previously boisterous crowd as made of. And dn that hot September ing game semed to be mysteriously the small placekicker strode confi­day in 1980, Harry Oliver joined a linked with· his increasing faith in dently on to the playing field. Just a long list of Notre Dame football im­God. nome in the land of behemoths, yet mortals as he kicked the game­"Freshman year, I was absolutey he was not intimidated; instead, he winning field goal against Michigan terrible," confesses Oliver with a seemed to revel in the tremendous in Notre Dame Stadium as time ran boyish grin. "Sophomore year I was challenge facing him. out. a litte better, but not much. It was in 
The kicker gingerly placed the But even today, over a year later, the spring of that year that I im­small black tee on the plush green Oliver has not fully realized the mag­proved a great deal." grass, carefully measured off three nitude of that lone kick. It was also around this time when steps, and prepared to make history. "I just don't think of myself as a Oliver started to incorporate his 
As the football was snapped, legend," Oliver confessed. "The im­faith with football. The tremendous 59,000 Hail Mary's raced frantically portance of that kick hasn't hit me success he garnered from such a skyward. The placekicker moved yet. Maybe 20 years from now when favorabe merger thrust him into the courageously toward the football I hear a bunch of guys talking about national spotlight during the follow­and swung his leg into the pigskin that game I'll feel a little special. But ing football season. with all thee force ofa canon. as the right now I don't feel that way." "My faith has helped ease a lot of ball arced gracefuly across the clear Oliver's kick against Michigan was the pressures that accompany blue sky, the heaven-bound Hail no fluke. The Moeller High School placekicking. Knowing that God is 
Senior co-captain Sami Kahale scored his team-leading eight 
Ma_ry's united to form an im­alumnus finished last year's cam­with me, I feel more confident goal ofthe season yesterday during Notre Dame's 6-0 victory over 
penetrable wall against the cocky paign as one of the top placekickers Defore each kick. If I miss the kick, I 
the DePaul Blue Demons. The Irish are now undefeated in ten 
south wind. As th'e final seconds -in the nation by booting 18 of 23 don't worry about it because I know 
games this season. See the story onpage 14. (Photo byjohn Macor) 
ticked impatiently off clock, the fleldgoals and finishing the season I did my best." with 73 points, two points short of The religious faith which is so im­the Notre Dame record. His success portant to Harry has resulted from did not go unnoticed by the press as several influences. both Football News and UPI named "It started with my parents, who
Digger in recruiting jungle 
him as a third-team all-America pick. provided me with a very positive en­Despite such achievement, Oliver vironment in which ~o grow. Then is sincerely modest. He does not feel Coach Faust planted the seed during 

Today is October l. That means that one phase ofthe 

comfortable when elaborating on my years at Moeller and then it recruiting season is over for Digger Phelps. NCAA his individual accomplishments. But reached fulfilllment in the spring of regulations say that between now and December 1, a Skip Desjardin when he does, he gives credit where my sophomore year." college coach can have no contact with high school ath­credit is due. And ever since then he's been letes other than on the coach's own campus. Assistant Editor . "I feel that a great deal of my kicking the hell out of the football. 
It has been a long summer for Phelps, who says he has success is reated to my strong So far in this young season, Harry put more time and effort into recruiting this year than religious convictions," related has not yet been afforded the kicking perhaps at any other time in his ten years at• Notre Oliver. "My belief in God and Our opportunities he experienced last Dame. "That's_unbelievable," Phelps says. "Those people are Lady has helped methrough the year, but he insists that he'll be 
Life on the roads and basketball courts of America kidding themselves if they think a successful team will rough times." prepared whenever those chances have opened Phelps eyes to a stark reality. There's a help keep the university financially solvent. You can't The life ofa plackicker is certainly arise. whole lot ofcheatin' going on out there. possibly run a University on the profits from sports. a rough one. Placekicker is perhaps ''I'm in a good groove right now 
"We are in a real minority here at Notre Dame," he "If we are lucky here at Notre Dame, we gross $5 the most mentally demanding posi­and I feel 'good about the way I've says in disbelief. "There are some serious problems million from football and basketbalL We sell out all the tion in footbalL It is an emotional been kicking in practice," Oliver with intercollegiate athletics, and things are not going time, and we have great revenue from TV and post­roller-coaster ofups and downs, and said. "Whenever they need me, I'm to change unless we make a concentrated effort to season play. But it takes $108 million every year to run the tremendous pressures inherent ready." change them." this place. Where is the other S 10 3 million coming with the job have ended the careers Does that mean he would 
Over the summer, former New Mexico basketball from? of many men with weaker constitu­welcome another situation similar coach Norm Ellenberger was convicted on 21 of 22 "Winning won't save a university. But they seem to tions. to the one he faced against Michigan counts offraud in connection with transcript-fixing and think it will. That's the problem with sports in college "My faith has been instrumental in one year ago? payoffs to his players. The judge in the case, however, today." helping me cope with the pressures "Well, let me put it this way," he set Ellenberger free. Phelps knows what he's ,talking about. He spends of the job," Oliver said. "Whenever I said as flashed that charming boyish 
Society had forced Ellenberger to cheat, the judge time in the homes of high school superstars who are missed a field-goal or extra point in grin once again, "I hope we win said. He was under such pressure to win, and to fill the being wooed and enticed by the biggest names in col­the past, it would get me down and every game by three touchdowns." arena, that he had no alternative but to cheat. The bas­lege basketball, and he's having trouble competing. negatively effect me on my next at­Perhaps not a realistic wish for the ketball fans in the state wanted a winner, and they didn't "Let's say I'm recruiting a kid from Alabama, and tempt. Now I realize that, with God's struggling Fighting Irish, but one care how Ellenberger went .about getting one. some big state school is offering him a car and cash," help, I'm doing my absolute best. So thing is for certain; a more honest 
In effect, the judge was saying that what the Lobos' now when I miss a kick, I don't let it man than Harry Oliver you will
SeeJllNGLE, page 14 
coach had done was OK. bother me as much, and I just try to never meet. 






Rebounding from Purdue ;preparing for MSU 
consider all the pressure _he was under in both situations, his One ofour big concerns, however, will be the health ofour performance becomes all the more remarkable. defensive unit since there are some starters still on the 
As some can imagine, our lockerroom was a solemn place doubtful list because ofinjuries. Two ofthe players, lineback­following the game. Everyone had that empty feeling that er Joe Rudzinski and defensive end Pat Kramer missed the comes after losing a close, hard-fought game. It is a feeling Purdue game and may not be ready to play this week. Two that stays with you until you win again. It is also a feeling that others, defensive tackle Bob Clasby and cornerback John should serve as extra motivation for the next game. Krimm, may have to sit out our game against the Spartans. 
I felt in the second half we moved the ball rather consis­Offensively, we will be without the services of left guard 
There's not much a coach can do or say to ease the pain tently but we just couldn't get it into the end zone. Four Randy Ellis, who was unable to make the trip last week, and after the heartbreaking loss we suffered at Purdue last Satur­times we had the ball inside Purdue's 35-yard line and didn't Dave Condeni, our split end who underwc·nt surgery Sunday day. It was a game ofemotional highs and lows for both teams get any points, and we've got to do better than that. after sustaining a knee injury in last Saturday's game. and for us it ended on the lowest possible note. Defensively, we have to tighten up things and get a little Because there are a number of doubtful performers we 
What made the defeat so difficult to accept was that our more pressure on the quarterback. Our secondary didn't do a will in all likelihood move other players up from the junior 
players showed such great determination in driving 50 yards bad job ofcovering but we gave Campbell too much time and varsity team. We were able to get a number of these players ~in only 57 seconds for the go-ahead touchdown only to be he often made the play good by either throwing on the run or some playing time last Sunday when they played against th<: stunned minutes later by a series ofgreat plays by Purdue and running himself. Even so, we did some good things at times. Purdue reserves. Playing a four or five game s<:hedule gives some last second heroics by Scott Campbell and Steve We stopped Purdue three times on fourth down, and even the junior varsity actual playing experience, the kind of av Bryant. when they got down to our one-yard line in the last minute of tion they normally cannot get during practice week. Our 
On our own drive it took Phil Carter, our fine tailback, just the game, we got great efforts on the first three downs, even coaches then have an opportunity to view the film~ and arc three plays to go half the length of the football field. His final pushing them back seven yards. But Campbell's fourth down 'able to check on the progress ofeach player, advancing those 30 yards for the touchdown was an excellent display of his pass play was the beginning of the end. that demonstrate they are capable ofhelping out in positions running ability. Unfortunately, Phil has seen limited action so This week we will be playing Michigan State, our third Big that need added depth on the varsity. It also gives the players far this year because of a pulled hamstring he suffered on the Ten team in a row and the first of five consecutive home something to look forward to after putting in a lm of work first day offall practice. games in the next six weeks. helping to prepare the varsity for an upcoming game. The fun 
Purdue, ofcourse, must be given a world of credit for the Michigan State's quarterback, John Leister, is much the ofplaying in a game at any level is the reward for all the time 
way they were able to travel 80 yards in almost two-and-one same kind of player that Purdue's Campbell is, so our secon­spent on the practice field. half, minutes, and to their quarterback Scott Campbell for dary and defensive line will again be severely tested. So far The game following a defeat becomes a double challenge coming up with the key plays that kept the drive alive. His this season, Leister has completed 42 of 93 passes for SS3 for any team. Not only does if have to overcome the op­final two passes, one for the touchdown and the other for the yards and he has some excellent receivers in Daryl Turner, ponent, but ther~'s the furtht:r challenge to prove to itself two-point conversion, were picture perfect. And when you Ted Jones and Otis Grant. that it can over(·omc adversity. Good teams do both. 





