.. .ND Government -page 7 
VOL XV, NO. 135 an indept·ndent student newspaper serving notre dame and saint mary's WEDNESDAY, APRil. 29, 19H I 
Standing ovation 
Reagan delivers address 
WASHINGTON (AP)-President Reagan, cheered to the echo as he returned to the public stage, told Congress last night that his tax and spending cuts are "the only answer we have left" for a sick economy. 
In his first address since he was shot in an assassination attempt on March 30, the president pronoun<:ed his own health much improved, but said the economy is as sick as ever. 
Reagan was welcomed by a rafter· shaking ovation which left him with "no words to express that greeting." 
He said his recovery was buoyed by the "friendship and yes, love" of his fellow citizens since he was shot. 
Congress seemed to have gotten the message even before the presi­dent presented it. Earlier in the day, the Senate Budget Committee ap­proved by a vote 'of I S-6 a budget blueprint which seemed made to or­der for the chiefexecutive. 
At the same time, the president, who showed no evidence whatever of his wound, told the House and Senate they risk public wrath unless his economic package is quickly ap­proved. 
It was his first public appearance since the assassination attempt, and an occasion of high c.lrama. The president was received with a three minute ovation of applause, c.·heers and whistles bcf(>re he interrupted with: "You wouldn't want to talk me into an encore?" 
Registration for nextyear is In full swing Ibis week us everything In a speech for a joint session of from class schedules to ID pictures are being taken care ofatStepen the House and Senate and a national Center. (Photo byjobn Mucor) radio and television audience, the 
Honorary degree 

SMC announces speaker 
Mrs. Helen M. Luke, a Jungian counselor who wrote, "Every reflective and discriminating woman has the responsibility to ask herself, what kind of free spirit is it that breathes through me and is the dominant influence in my life?" in "The Ufe of the Spirit in Women," will deliver the commencement address and receive an honorary doctor of humanities degree at the !34th commencement exercises at Saint Mary's College on Saturday, May 16. 
Also recevlng honorary degrees arc Monsignor John Joseph Egan, director of the Center for Pastoral and Social Ministry at the University of Notre Dame; Sister M. Bertrand Sullivan, general treasurer of the Congregation of Sisters of the Holy Cross; and Sister Jeanne Knoerle, president of Saint Mary-of-the­Woods College. The President's 
Medal  will  be awarded  to  Father  
Casimiro  Roca,  and  Maria  Mazza  
Kompare.  

Belen M. Luke studlt:d the psy­chology of Carl G. Jung in Zurich and practiced as a counselor in Los Angeles for 14 years. She moved to Three Rivers, Ml, in 1963 at which time she established a small center :md guest house for people seeking to understand the transforming power ofsymbols In th t eir lives. 
Mrs. Luke, who is now In her 70's, ha.'i spent most of her life exploring the symbolic dimensions of the of her essays has just appeared in a of the Hospital' Financial Manage­book entitled Woman: Earth and ment Association, she served as its Spirit. president and received the Associa­
Mrs. Luke, a native of England, tion's highest honor, the Morgan holds a master's degree from Some­Award for distinguished service in rville College, Oxford University, hospital financial management. where she studied Italian and Franch Sister Bertrand also held the posi­language and literature. tion of general treasurer of the· Sis­
Monsignor John Joseph Egan is ters ofthe Holy Cross from 1961-67 the founder and past chairman ofthe and has served as secretary and Catholic Committee on Urban Min­member of the Board of Regents at istry and a board member of many Saint Mary's College since 1973. Sis­foundations and organizations ter Bertrand will be awarded an including the National Catholic 
See COMMENCEMENT, page 4 
Reporter, Guild for the Blind and In­president called anew for swift pa.'isage of his economic package, saying inaction "will dday even lon­ger -and more painfully -the cure which must come." 
"The American people now want us to act, and not in half measures," he said in the nationally broadcast address. "They demand -and they have earned -a full and com­prehensive effon to clc.-an up our economic mess." 
Although the president's program ofbudget cuts has been linked to his tax reduction proposals, the speet·h included only a passing rdC.·rc.·nc.T to tht· tax plan, considered tlw more difficult clement to pass in the lc.-gislative package. 
Congress sc.·c.·mnl in a tar mort· cooperative mood c.·vt·n hcfort· the president heac.kd l(>r the wdl of the House. Thret· Republicans rejoined the administration's li>ld on the Senate Budget Committc.T. ckaring the way ti>r that panl'l to get t ht· president's spending hluepnnt had on track. And llousc.· kadcrs indi· cated the presidc.·nt prohahly no\\ has the votes to win thc.·n· too. 

Cosmos·producer calls planets consciousness key 
By TOM SHAUGHNESSEY 
News Staff 

Gentry Lee, co-producer of Carl Sagan's television series "Cosmos," presented an audio-visual lecture on"Man and the.· Cosmos" at the Cc.·nter for Continuing Education auditorium la.'it night. 
"Man can never go back to the state ofnot knowing... ~00 years from now. people will look back with wistful romanticism on the discoveries being made today." With this statement Gentry Lee set the tone.· for his discussion ofJ~piter, Saturn, and their moons. using photographs taken by the Voyager space missions. 
Mixing scientific concepts with entertaining asides, Let· treatt·d the 
audience to a computer graphics film which gave the viewer a tour ofSaturn 
and its moons from the vantage point ofthe Voyager space craft. 
"We are chemicals who havt· become a wart· ofour own chemistry," said Lee. stressing that the study of other planets "will tell us a lot about the chemistry that led to us," and will create " a continuation of the asking of questions and the getting of answers which has set us apart from other creatures." 
Lee Defended the space program, a victim ofthe president's proposc:d tax cuts, saying,"The cost per citizen of the Voyager has been J2.40 pc:r American over 1oix years...for S2.20 per American pt r yt·ar, we could give your children an accurate atlas oftht· universe." Health and Human Services costs Americans in excess of S800 per person, and the tht· Pt·ntagon J7'i per American per year "to build weapon systems that have no possibility of being." 
According to Lee, there is "good reason to suspect that the sky is humming with the sound ofother civilizations." Lee postulated that if one percent of the creatures that may exist in the universt• "figure out how to harness their conciousness and live in harmony," then there are "between two and fivt· million advanced technological civilizations in the Milky Way." 
Lee graduated summa t·um laude from the University ofTc.·xas and studit'd mathematics, physics, and aerospace engineering at Ma.~sachusetts lnstitutt· ofTechnology. He is presently t:onnected with the Galileo project a span craft that will probe the atmosphere of Jupiter and then become a pc.·r· manent satellite ofthe planet. 
Before calling for questions from the audience, Lee lamt·ntt·d. "Pt•opil who think more than two or three years in tht· future or try to tt·ach pt·oplt something that doesn't help them to deal with thdr daily lives art· con· sidered irrelevant." 
terreligious Foundation for Com­munity Organization. He served the New AMstyle Archdiocese of Chicago as director of the Cana Conference of Chicago, 1947-S8; as director of the Office of 

WSND undergoes change
Urban Affairs 1958-69; and as a 
counsultor from 1966-69. Editor's note: The ;ollowing is tbe 
Monsignor Egan acted as chair­conclusion ofa two-part series on man of the Association of Chicago radio station WSND. Observer Priests from 1969-70 and received reporter Kellt Flint interviewed the the first University of Notre Dame directors of the News, Sports, 
Reinhold Niebuhr Award in 1973. Production, and Sales Departments Earlier this year Monsignor Egan oftbeAM/FM stations. received the John XXIII Award for Excellence in Ministry from the As­By KELLI FLINT sociation ofChicago Priests. SeniorStaffReporter 
In addition to his duties as direc­tor of the Center for Pastoral and The WSND News, Sports, Produc­Social Ministry, he serves as assistant tion, and Sales departments service to the president of Notre Dame. 
both the AM( 6400) and the Saint Mary's will confer Monsignor 
FM(88.9) stations. Egan an honorary doctor of 
WSND news underwent many humanities degree. positive changes this year, accord­Sister M. Bertrand Sullivan, has ing to News Director Dan LeDuc. 
next semester. We will also res­chedule AM news times, and in­crease features for the AM station." 
Gus Tamborcllo, chiefannouncer for WSND-AM, pointed out that, 

"The D]'s news announcers and sportscasters working together not only enha:1ces the professional sound, but also provides valuable learning experience for those stu­dents who wish to pursue hroadca.'it­ing as a career." 
been very successful this year," he.· said. "Encounters dt•als with corn· munity affairs, and air~ on Sunday evenings. 
"Wt· will also have a nt·w styk AM talk show, which will hopdully in· volve more students both inside and outside the station. 
The newscasts for the.· FM station will remain the same as this year. beginning at 7:.~0 a.m. and c.·nding ;H midnight." 
He added that the News lkpart­ment provides students with train­ing. "We are here to train students to broadcast news," he said. .. In tht· process, we Inform the student body of the basic news that comes int6 

human psyche through dreams, served as general treasurer of the "We hope to continue .this trend LeDuc added that he hopes to their day." Images, and myths. She Is the author Congregation of the Sisters of the 'through the coming semester. We continue the Encounters program" 
See WSND, page 4 

ofa book on Dante and a collection Holy Cross since 1973. Co-founder plan to increase campus reporting on the FM station. "Encounters ha.'i 

• 

r 


News Brie_b 

wednesday,April29, 19s1-page2 
~~~======~============================~ 
by The Observer and The Associated Press 

New York members of the Newspaper Guild voted today to strike The New York Times ifno contract is reached by mid­night. Guild spokesman Pat Smith said negotiators for the Times' 1,900 guild-covered employees would meet today after meeting "all day and all night Monday" to no avail with Times management. Smith said the Daily News or the Post, or both, also could be struck ifthere is no progress in negotiations. The deadline at the Times was sd by the 20 member Executive Committee of the New York local after the nearly 500 editorial and clerical employees represented by the guild at the three dailies voted in early April to authorize a strike. The guild softened its demand for an immediate elimination ofdual pay rates at the Times and Post and asked that they be phased out over four years. The guild's position on dual minimums at the Daily News was not disclosed. The three year contract that expired March 30 allowed employees hired since March 31, 1978, to be paid at a lower scale-than employees already working. Weekly base pay under the expired con­tracts ranged from $400 for paperhandlers to $617 for top-rated guild members. -AP 
Atlanta police searched for two more mtssmg black youths Tuesday, as medical authorities said the 26th victim in At­lanta's string of slayings probably died of asphyxiation like 14 of the earlier cases. The body of 21 year-old)immy Ray Payne, who was last seen April 22, was found Monday floating in the Chatahoochee River. He was the fourth adult victim ofslight build in the series of murders. Assistant Fulton County medical examiner Saleh Zaki said he had made a "working diagnosis" of death by asphyxiation in Payne's case by excluding other causes. To determine a definite cause, he said offi­cials would need lab data that would not be available for several days. The case is "very similar to some ofthe othercases," 14 ofwhich were 
1
ruled asphyxial deaths, Zaki said. He said there was no evidence of external injuries, se-xual moestation or a struggle. Meanwhile, police were investigating two more reports of missing young blacks who may fit the profile ofthe latest victims. Both cases were"being handled by tl"!e missing persons unit rather than the special task force in charge of the 26 murders and one disappearance of black youths since July 1979. -AP 
IRA guerrilla Bobby Sandslingered on the verge of death at Maze in prison in Belfast yesterday 9n the 59th day of his hunger strike and_his supporters said he was given last rites again. Britain's government repeated its refusal to give in to Sands' demands and Northern Ireland's security forces prepared for a bloody con­frontation if he dies. Pope John Paul II's personal envoy went to the Maze after a half-hour meeting in London with a British Foreign Office minister. Protestant leaders angrily denounced the visit at a time when fears of all-out sectarian violence were rising steadily. British Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher reiterated her refusal to accede t0 Sands' demand that imprisoned guerrillas be given special privileges like the "political prisoner" rights they had in the mid 70s. Sands, serving a 14 year sentence for weapons possession, was elected to British Parliament in a special election April9. He has been subsisting on water alone to back his demands that jailed guerrillas be allowed to wear civilian clothes, associate freely and receive one visit each week, and that they not be forced to do prison work. The British government has refused on grounds that a concession would give political legitimacy to the outlawed IRA's campaign to end British rule in Northern Ireland and unite the predominantly Protestant province with the Irish Republic. -AP 
Fr. Theodore M. Hesburgh, president ofthe Uni­versity of Notre Dame, says more "imaginative solutions" are needed to ensure racial equality. Speaking Monday night before the In­dianapolis Notre Dame Club, Hesburgh told reporters the answer to dealing with most ghetto schools is simply "to bulldoze it. Just wipe it out." Hesburgh, a 15 year member and current chairman of the U.S. Commission on Civil Rights, envisions citywide systems for the grades of kindergarten through 12 grade, patterned after college campuses. He said the concept offers a vast combination ofopportunities to en­courage a racial mix of "thousands of students to participate in the learning process." He said he is scheduled t.o go to Washington next week to urge Congress to "get rid of the deadwood" restrictions bar­ring foreign immigration to the United States. Hesburgh, chairman of the Select Committee on Immigration and Refugee Policy, said his committee will begin joint hearings before U.S. House and Senate sub­committees next week. -AP 
Labor leaders Walter Reuther and George Meany, of the 
nited Auto Workers union are seeking reaffiliation with the AFL-CIO 
1 a reunion born largely offinancial need after a 13 year personality 
onflict and seperation. Sources within the labor movement said yes­
tnday that regional leaders of the UAW had voted about 2-to-1 for 
reunification in a merger that wCN!d bring the AFL-CIO's membership 
.,.,nearly 15 million nationwide. Some 1.3 million workers belong to 
;he UAW, down from a peak of 1.5 million before the auto industry 

,Jump began in 1979. "The UAW is extremely beleaguered," said .leanne Gordus, a research scientist at Uni~c;rsity ofMichigan Institute ·>f Labor and Industrial Relations. "They arc extremely short ofmoney ~ost due to layoffs. And the AFL-CIO is certainly in better financial ·ondition. "They are overcoming ideological problems for practical -neans. I don't see they have much choice. It's a question·ofsurvival." !"he AFL-CIO and the UAW split in 1968. lJAW leaders differed with the hard-line foreign policy of Meany. then president ofthe federation. They also felt the AFL-CIO's organizing efforts were inadequate. -AP . 
Good chance for showers and cooler Wednes­day. High in the low to mid 60s. Chance for showers Wednesday night. Low in the mid 40s. Thursday partly cloudy and pleasant. High in the mid to upper 60s. -AP 

Always Something • • • 

At this point in the semester, it is very difficult to come up with something fresh, entertaining, witty or thought provoking to say. All thoughts have already been spent pot unding out last-minute papers. And with finals impending, motivation to sit in front of a com­puter and write constructively has hit an all-time low. 
So -for my last column ofthe semester, I thought it would be most appropriate to takt> a look back at what was in the campus news a few years ago. While poring over some forgotten Observers, I found the following article which appeared 13 years ago on October 4, 
1968. I kid you not: 
Rumors ofa mysterious ghost inhabiting Washing­ton Hall have long lingered among Notre Dame tradi­tions: the suppposedfleeting spirit ofGeorge Gipp, or whateverform be now assumes. 
Few have ever taken the rumors seriously, but over 

, the years in the evening hours, some strange oc­curences have been noted within the ball. Senior joe Doyle, a present resident in Washington, tells a story ofhis cousin Charley Morrison who set up a rendez­vous with the ghost two years ago. Morrison was violently assaulted alone offstage that night, andstill swears that a supernatural force roams the balls of Wasbington. 
With all this in mind, four ND juniors, Dave Ed­monds, Bob Spaulding,]im Brogan and Tim Berry, decided to invade the ball Sunday night and inves­tigate on their own. 
Edmonds said, "It all started as a prank. We 

..planned to stage a farcical ghost hunt as a feature. But it's no prank now. The ghost, or something, does exist. The place is really haunted." 
The group sneaked over to Washington at 11 p.m.,/ carrying photographic equipment, and a white 
sheetandfootball helmetto 
simultea ghoulish disguise. They entered the dark ball 
and began to explore the upstairs region. 
Spaulding claimed, "I've neverseen anything like it 
in my life. The place was spooky: a cigarette smolder­
ing in an ashtray, an open Bible, a record album titled 
"For Us the Living" and evil, brooding portraits all 
over theplace." 
The students moved cautiously downstairs and 
onto the stage platform, where they set up their 
camera. Brogan, the contrived ghost, posed for shots 
around the auditorium. His footsteps reverberated, 

• sounding exactly like heartbeats. 
At this point Spaulding and Berry ventured toward the back tiers of the seats, and Brogan playfully flicked off the lights, and was unable to turn them back on. The switch would simply not hold in the on­position. 
Brogan claimed, "Some crazy force paralyzed my fingers." The group was split in complete darkness. Suddenly, there was a strange sensation ofsomeone else nearby; the sound ofcreakingfootsteps, a flash of 

ducted to determine the location ofrooms which contain illegalphones. 
The article concluded with the telephone company spokesman asking students to report illegal phones to the business office. And if students had illegal phones, they could tum themselves in and avoid disciplinary action. 
Notre Dame--there is never a dull moment here. 
Observer notes 
·------------------~ 
The Obsen1er is always looking for new reporters. If you like to write, stop by our office on the third floor of LaFortune and talk to one of our news editors. They will be glad to help you get started. 
The Observer will publish its last regular issue of the semester Friday. A special graduation issue will be published May 15. Regular publication will resume in late August, with a special issue planned to welcome incoming freshmen. 

The_Obs_erYer 
Design Editor...................... Maura Murphy 
Design Assistants .............. Usa Bontempo 
Elizabeth Clay Typesetter ............................... Bruce Oakley News Editor..........C.:..............John Hisgins Copy Editor............................Valerie Evans Sports Copy Editor.............Skip Desjardin Typist ...................... : ........ Michelle Kelleher ND Day Editor.......................... Ed Konrady SMC Day Editor....................... Cece Baliles Ad De.sign ..................................... Fran & Co. Pbotograpber ........................... .)ohn Macor Guest Appearances .................... No Names 
You wouldn't believe it itrtold you 
Supplement Layout...................................... . 
Ryan "Trustee" Ver Berkmoes 
Tim "Trainee" Vercellotti 
Lynne "Joyous" Daley John "No Bother·· Higgins Bruce "Petulant" Oakley 
The Observer (USPS 598 920) IS publ1shed Monday through Fr~day except dur~ng exam and vacat1on per~ods The Observer 1s published by the students of Notre Dame and Samt Marys College Subscr~pt10ns may be purchased for $30 per year ($15 per semester) by wr1t1ng The Ob­server, P 0 Box 0. Notre Dame. In· d1ana 46556 
The Observer IS a member of the Assoc1ated Press All reproduction r~ghts are reserved 

light, and a muffled moan. 
Now actually shaken, they raced for the exits and breathlessly gathered outside. The old opera house stood defiantly against the black sky, having again protected its secrets. 
Edmonds said, "Now we didn't really see anything, but all ofus agree that something else was in there. 1, for one, plan to return." 
Whether or not anyone has returned and explored in 
search ofthc legendary ghost, I do not know. But such 
an article amidst all the traditional news, traditional 
gripes and grievances against the University and the the 
tradtional sports coverage was refreshing to find. 
Five years later on April 13, 1973, the following ar­
ticle received prominent placement in the paper: 
Obscene and harassing 

phone calls are on the in­crease in the Notre Dame community, according to Dick Miller, an employee of the campus Bell system. 
In order to combat the situation, the company has installed a new device at the central switchboard in the Memorial Library. "For the protection of the stu­dents, we have acquired rather sophisticated equip­ment that makes itpossible to trace a call,"Miller said. 
...Another problem con­fronting campus personnel is the illegal room phone. A survey was recently con-





CAMPUS 
VIEW 
APARTMENTS 
NOW I RENTING FOR SUMMER I BEDROOM-$230 2 BEDROOM-$275 
(monthly rates) special low summer 1rates: available June-August IS 
utilities paid. central air and heated pool. 
THE place to be off-campus 


-----------~--------­
_________;______ 

The Observer ----. 
Special committee 
ND aids disabled persons 
ByJEFF HARRINGTON became chairman of the committee activities at the University to be ac­Neu>sSta/f this fall when the post was vacated cessible to the handicapped; it by Prof. Donald Sniegowski. doesn't mean that every classroom 
In observation of 1981 as the In­The ND committee formed five must be changed to accomodate ternational Year of Disablt:d Per­years ago in response to the I975 them." sons, the Notre Dame Committee United Nations Declaration which He furt_her noted that the "dozen for the Physically Handicapped is stipulatt·d that "recipients offederal or so" severely handicapped stu· striving to "make known the special funds must insure auxiliary aids (for dt:nts currently attending Notre needs of the handicapped," accord­the handicapped) for equal par­Dame all go to classes regularly. ing to Prof. Steve Rogers, committee ticipation in (academic) programs. "The declaration doesn't mean spe­
chairman. Rogers said the resolution was in­cial breaks for the handicapped or Rogers, blind since the age of 2, terpreted as requiring "the types of altering the whole program to suit them." Since tht: committee's institution, major steps have been taken to in·

Israeli planes engage 
crease the physical accessibility of the handicapped to Notre Dame, said Rogers. "We installed ramps

Syrians over Lebanon 
outside many of the huildi t ngs on campus, following the guidelines and the deadline set (by the UN)"
BEIRUT, Lebanon (AP) -Israeli Begin said the Israelis intervened Following ND's compliance to the
jets shot down two Syrian helicop· to stop the Syrians from taking over physical aspects of the resolution,
ters yesterday, for the first time tht· mountains around Zahle. From Rogers added that the committee at·
joining directly in the fighting in those heights the Syrians could shell 
tempted to make the University Yesterday's inclement weather left the area behind the Stepen
eastern and central Lebanon be· jounieh, the Mediterranean port "intellectually accessible to the Chemistry construction site an obstruction sitefor students making
tween Syrian forces and Lebanese through which, according to foreign 
handicapped by removing the their way to O'Shag. (Photo byjohn Mucor)
Christian militias. reports, the Israelis keep the Chris­
academic barriers confronting
"lsrad again is making it clear that tians supplied. 
them." Interpreters for the deaf and
in l.(:banest: skies there will be no The Israeli· air missions in eastern 'k************~-******************** 
aids to transportation around
Syrian air activity," Israeli Deputy Lebanon began as Syrian Foreign 
~SMC and ND Girls and Guys!
campus arc some of the main
Defense Minister Mordechai Ippori Minister Abdul Halim Khaddam 
measures implemented hy the com­
said in Tt'l Aviv. arrived for day-long talks with 
~~****************************** ~ 
mittee.
Wt·stern diplomatic analysts in Lebanese government leaders and 
In the future Roger foresees ~ ~
'Get a great style cut
Beirut said Israel's action "broke all Christian and Moslem 
increasing the number of hand·
tht· unwritten rules" under which representatives in a hid for recon· 
tht· Christians and Syrians have been ciliation in this half-Christian, half· icapped students at the University :* complete, for only * ~ by showing them "Notre Dame ha~
battling since April I around the Moslem Mediterranean nation of something special to offer."
ChriMian city of Zahle 30 miles t·ast three million. 
~ $4.75 reg. price $8.50 ~ 
He also plans to increase campus
of Beirut. The direct intcrvt:ntion Israel said its hordt:r gunners awareness of this "collection of
raisnl a threat ofa spreading contlict blasted guerrillas strongholds in 
* * * no * 
in Ihe volatile Middle East. southern Lebanon with heavy ar­minorities" thmugh establishing ~ ~PERSONAL TOUCH~ expiration~
programs such as "a provost lecture
The lsradi military t·ommand ack· tillery yt:sterday, in response to a series" next fall featuring four or five * * STUDIO OF * date * nowlt-dgt·d shooting down the barrage of Soviet-made Katyu~ha 
distinguished guest speakt:rs who
hdit'opters, but denied rt:ports from rockets that gut:rrillas firt:d into Is­
* * HAIRDESIGN * * 
have overcome their severe hand­
lkirut that its American-made rael's northern Galilet: 
* * * *

panhandlt: 
icaps.
warplanes rot·kl·tt:d Syrian ground overnight. 
positions bt·sieging Zahlt-. It also dt·nit-d a radio report of a dogfight bt·twt•t•n Isradi and Syrian fightt·rs. 
The first Syrian helicopter wao; stru<:k by an air-to-air missile from a Phantom F-4 fighter bomber at mid­day and the second by a F-1 S rocket about five hours later. Lebanese government sourn·s said. 8oth were shot down ncar Zahle, whcrt• the Syrians and Christians have been battling since April I for control of tht· snow-blankett·d Sanninc Moun­tain pt·aks. 
Christian spokt·smen in Beirut said Syrian artillery positions bom­barded Christian militia strongholds in and around Zahlc aftt:r tht· Isradi air assaults. The spokesmen reported 12 people were killed and 
t6 wounded in tht: new shelling. 
Tht· Syrians insist that the Chris· tian militias should withdraw from Zahlt-and tht· surrounding heights, saying they pose a thrt·at to the Syrian border 20 miles to the east. 
Prime Minister Mt·nachcm Begin said tht· Israelis plannt·d further stt·ps against Syrian forces, saying, "We will not sulfkc ourgclves with this action." lie did not elaborate. 

Need a tide to Philly after finals? still room on the Phila. Club bus. Call Bill at 3721 
i6 ~ 4/30af Htut6 Hm0 Re6fautu~Hl fielub $5.00 OK 3afe Ut 142 Fallfey 
~ ~ 50741 US 31 N ~ Clip this ad for~ ~ ~ 277-0341 ~student dlscoaal~ ~***t*:;·****************~ ********)f 


~----DORMiiFE 
I CRAMPING YOUR STYLE? 
\ 

I 




II NOTREDAME 
1 AVE. APTS 
2bedrooms completely furnished complete kitchen 
I off-streetparking · I up to 4 students 1 $340-$360/month

L call.234-6647 
The Observer Wednesday, April29, 1981 -page 4 

• 
Alexander Ginzburg Soviet Dissident Speaking on: 
The Gontinuin!( Human Ri!(hts Stru!(!(le in the USSR 
April 30, 1981 8 : OOp m. Library Auditorium 
Workshop -Question and Answer Pericxl 
May1, 1981 10 : OOam. Library Lounge 
Admission for both is free 
Sponsored by Student Union AcademiC O:>mmission and Committee on Academic Progress 

Tiger Flower I Jam 1 River City Records Present 

Starring:
*George Clinton 
*Bootsy Collins 
•Sly Stone! 
•Notre Dame A.C.C. • South Bend. Indiana 
T1ckels $9 00!$8 00 ~II seals reserved on sale at all 3 R1ver Clly Records 1 U S 31 North. Western Ave ·South Bend ana Dunes Plaza·M1th1gan Cl!y) Suspended Chord IEikharll J R ·s !LaPorte). Recordland (Benton Harbor & Kalamazoo) Karma (fort Umled Records (Gary). T1cketron tCI11cagoJ and the A C C Box Oll1ce 

AlLlL eGIEiilt&~~~e! ~'fl'lE..Pm-! ~~'W'CD'1l'll®~ Drop-off your rug, couch , chair or lamp at Stepan Wednesday 6-12, 
or Thursday 1-6 or load it on the truck at the following places and times; 
HALL Sorin, Walsh, Badin, Howard Morrissey, Lyons 
Fisher, Pangborn, Dillon, Alumni Cavanaugh, Zahm 
Breen-Phillips, Farley 
Keenan, Stanford, 
lewis Off-Campus 
LOCATION Behind Bookstore 
Basketball Courts behind Lyons Behind South Dining Hall 
Next to the Band Hall By the Old Fieldhouse Behind Stanford 
Campus View 
continuedfrom page 1 
honorary doctor oflaw degree. 
Sister Jeanne Knoerle, president of Saint Mary-of-the-Woods College since 1968, is known as one of In­diana's leading educators. She is president of the Indiana Conference of Higher Education and has served as chairwoman for the Association of Catholic Colleges and Universities. 
Sister Jeanne, a past member. of the American Commission on Women in Education and Indiana's Coordinating Commission for the celebration of the International Women's Year, holds degrees from Saint Mary-of-the-Woods and In-
continuedfrom page 1 
WSND Sports is responsible for relaying sports not only from the Notre Dame community, but from all over the country, according to Sports Director Bill Dempsey. Dempsey noted that, "The other sta­tions in this area don't emphasize sports. They either 'feed in' to ABC, or plug in to CBS three times a day. 
We give the sports every other hour, and cover it on a national level, as well as acampus level. 
Our primary goal is covering Notre Dame sports, as well as nation­al sports. This year we did the home play-by-plays for every football game, every basketball game that we were here for, and every hockey game. 
We did all of the road games in football except for Alabama, and all of the road games for basketball, ex­cept for over break and the NCAA tournament. 
We do a lot of sports on the FM station, and are responsible for bringing more sports into the Mic­hiana area. We are slightly limited on FM because it is a fine arts station, and some of the things we say may go away from the format." 
Dempsey pointed out that, "WSND sports is a great learning «:!1:­perience for sportscasters. Not only is it important to keep people in­formed with extensive coverage and play-by-play, but it is also important that these announcers are all doing 
• • . Commencement 
diana University. She will receive an honorary doctor of law degree at commencement. 
Father Casimiro Roca, who is cur­rently assistant pastor ofHoly Family Parish in Chimayo, New Mexico, has dedicated his life to missionary work with Spanish Americans. 
In 1954, Father Roca left his home in Spain to work as a missionary in New Mexico. At that time, he built Our Lady of the Holy Rosary in Truchas, N.M. and Holy Family Parish in Chimayo, N. M., which served as the center for seven mis­sion churches across the Sangre de Christor mountains. 
Father Roca also established the 
this for the first time. 
Besides play-by-plays and sports shows, we also have several special shows. Probably the best of these is Sports Sunday, where everything that happens over the weekend in sports is covered. 
'we also have Speaking ofSports, Thursday nights. On this show, we open up the telephone lines for an hour, so that people can call in and talk about whatever they want. We usually won't have a guest on this show, just to give people a chance to talk about whatever they want," he noted. 
According to Director Mark Rowland, the WSND production department, while less known, is ex­

.tremely important to the station's operation. 
"We handle the production of special shows, such as broadcasts of sporting events and special shows, like AM's Talk It Up," he explained. 
"Our main problem is getting people interested enough to remain with the department. We lose much of our staff, because they felt that they were not needed. ­
Production is a very low-glamour position. We're the 'unsung heroes' ofradio, in any market. 
Next year, we hope to emphasize the learning aspect of production. I would like to almost formalize the training program for students, so that they can learn and gain ex­perience. I plan to give in-depth training," he added. 

WSND Sales is responsible for making money for the survival ofthe station. According to Sales Director Mark Hannuksela, "We only get a limited amoum of money from the University, and we can't do a lot of the things that we now do, such as travelling to Los Angeles, Florida, etc., to do play-by-plays for Notre Dame Sports. 
Sports is our biggest benefactor. Thq benefit the most from sales. 
What I would like to do next year 
is emphasize regular sales. Selling 
straight air time for the AM station 
will both supplement our income 
and hopefully help our advertisers 
with an increased audience," 
Rowland concluded. 
Unfortunately sales have dropped 
this year. Sales co-director George 

Calafactor believed this was because "<the rates were too high. 
Our rates are a little bit higher 
than those of regular radio stations, 
such as WRBR and WNDU. 

Advertisers are reluctant to take a chance on a student-operated AM station, because the audience is limited to the student body. They believ~ that with the high rates, WSND would be a risk. 
What we will do" he stated," is check with certain stations to find out what their rates are, and adjust our rate cards accordingly. 
Next year I plan to have a training 
program for staff members. Sales will 
also pay about 10 percent commis­
sion," he added. 


BARCLAY'S MEAT & PRODUCE RESTAURANT • 52885 U.S. 31 NORTH SOUTH BEND, IN 46637 
Sinl:e our inceplion in 1969. il has been the philosophy of Barclay's that students make outstanding employees. 
Our company, Continental Restaurant Systems, is presently expanding throughout the United States. Locally, we will employ 140 to 160 people both full and part lime, da) or night. 
We are currently accepting applications for: 
Food Waiters & Waitresses Cocktail Waitresses Hostesses Busboys/Busgirls Dishwashers Cashiers Bartenders Secretaries Broiler Cooks Food Prep Maintenance Men Management Trainees 
Barclay's provides an excellent opportunity for fun and lucrative jobs. 
Apply in person between 8:00a.m. -5:00 p.m. Monday through Saturday. 
Due to various state labor laws, we are forced to set a minimum age of 18. Interested?? 
Barcla)·'s Meal & Produce Restaurant 52885 U.S. 31 North South Bend, Indiana 46637 
An Equal Opportunity Employer 
APRIL 
29 5:00­5:50 
6:00­
6:50 
7:00­
7:50 
8:00­
8:50 
9:00­
9:50 10:00­10:50 
11 :·00­11:50 
30 1:00­1:30 
1:40­2:10 
2:20­2:50 
3:00­3:30 
3:40­4:10 
4:20­4:50 
5:00­5:30 
New Mexico Mission Program which young Catholic women, including students from Saint Mary's College, work and teach in the churches ofNew Mexico. 
Maria Mazza Kompare, a 1964 graduate ofSaint Mary's has worked with the Navajo and Hopi Indians in Tuba City, Arizona, for the past 10 years. She created a program which offers non-Indian workers psychological, cultural and practical preparation for life on a reservation. 
Mrs. Kompare's husband, Dr. Ed­ward Kompare is chief of medicine at the Public Health Hospital in Tuba_ City and a Univfrsity of Notre Dame alumnus. 
. WSND 


Wednesday, April 29, 1981 -page 5





Editorials 
Abolish interhall 
P.O. Box Q
Whether it's Breen-Philllps versus Farley in flag football, Dillon a~inst Alumni in soccer or Grace battling Howard for the basketball title, nothing serves to strengthen both the intrahall enthusiasm and the interhall rivalries better than interhall athletics. In the fall, there will be 22 dorms l~ompt:ting in interhall competition. And then there 
Reagan dialogue is renew_ed 
will he "the other guys" -Off-€ampus. As t(>od for thought, The Ob· server would like to propose the abolition ofoff-campus teams. 
country. Notre Dame students man who in his short tenure in
Editor's Note: The Observerbas
In11tead, tht'11t' off-campus residents could be allowed to compete should, therefore, feel honored. He office has instituted policies that
learned that President Reagan
for the dorm in which they once lived. Transfer students could have will also greatly affect the lives of seem antithetical to what Notre
tentatively bas agreed once again
their choice, or the Inrerhall Office could assign them randomly to us all -for that reason alone, Dame has traditionally stood for.
to attend commencement ex­
teams in nl·cd ofplayers. 
Notre Dame students should, While some might maintain that
ercises May 17. This week, we wtll
Acertain camaraderk develops among members ofany team at any 
whether they view that prospect Mr. Reagan's appt"arance at Notre
publish portions of our huge
level in any sport. Just because a person moves from a dorm to a house with anticipation or with ap­Dame represents no endorsement
backlog of letters and "Opinion"
or apartment docs not ne~·cssarily mean that they must leave the team 
prehension, be extrl'mely In­of his policies, we disagree. Press
piecessubmitted in the briefinter­
th t ey have been so much a part offor one, two or three years. 
terested in what he has to say. coverage of Reagan's visit to Notre
im between the announcement of
The problems with the current sysu;m are many. Students living all EdGFabam Dame will be of valuable political
Reagan's visit and the failed as­
over South Bend arc pooled together under one umbrella for or· l!. ofWisconsin usc to the administration in its
sassination attempt. In total, let­
ganizational purpose~. Yet the pooling proc.:css, as most off-campus 
Madison, Wise. plans to build support among Cat­
ters ran approximate~y 2-1 in
compclitors can attest, is a difficult one. Leaving messages with holics for budget cuts and in­
favor of the president's visit. Ex­
housemates, notin·s in LaFortune and reminders at practice ofren are creased military spending.
cerpts follow:_ 
not dkctive mc;tlll> ofcommunkation anu organization. 
Perhaps the University feels a The cost offielding afull complement ofteams, whether for a dorm Dear Editor: presidential visit by Mr. Reagan or for Off-Campus, is quite high. Adding up the expenditures on ice Dear Editor: It is indeed appropriate that will serve to bolster its prestigetime, pads, helmets. sticks, bats, balls and other equipment can be Having the President of the Notre Dame, which so eagerly and fund-raising. Such oppor­staggering. F.liminating one team can only help hold down aggregate 
United States as our guest Is an pursues excellence in all of its en­tunism, at the expense of the poor costs. 
honor. It says a lot for the respect deavors, should honor Ronald both here and abroad, would be in The temptation is often great tor off-campus teams to use players which this University enjoys. Presi­Reagan, a man of achievement, tragic contrast to the ideals of so­who are, for one reason or another, ineligible to compete. Any student dent Reagan doesnot come here to with an honorary degree. Mr. cial justice and world peace which who carncd a varsity letter or monogram at another college, prior tc;> advocate his position on the Reagan is a man of achievement: a the llniversity has promoted in the transferring to Notre Dame, may not compete In the same sport in our budget or El Salvador. Rather, the noted actor, a successful business­past.
interhall program. This type of rule violation,.whl~ther intentional or President shall be visiting Notre man, two-time governor ofCalifor­We strongly urge that the llni­not. seems to be most common among the off-campus teams. 
Dame as a gesture of his respect nia, an eloquent spokesman for tht· vcrsity reconsider its invitation to It was during the mid·l970s that the possibility ofa housing lottery and friendshp, and to recognize conservative political movement the president for these reasons. 
was first proposed. At that timt\ the Office of Non-Varsity Athletics 
Notre Dame's academic achieve­and currently, president of the Lou Brien '78 drafted a resolution that would give any studcntforced offcampus the 
ments. United States. Bobjones '80 diOkc ofcompeting either for their former residence hall or for the 
We as respectable and respon­Ronald Reagan is not only a man Paul Kapczuk '80 Off-Campus team. Wht~n the lottery was abandoned, tht• proposa~ was 
sible American citizens should not of accomplishment but a man of TomLenz'77 filed away. · 
continue to fight Reagan at every deeply felt convictions. He Chicago, Ill. Perhaps a t:hoict• is not the answer. Since such an option would 
turn. We should recognize the fact believes that each member of decrt·asc the off-campus crop of athlett~s dramatically, it may no lon­
that he is President now, and that society must be allowed the ger be feasible for there to be any Off-Campus teams. But most ofthem 
we should work with him to greatest control possible over his 
Dear Editor: 
onct· lived in a dorm, and could compete for the Hogs or the Big Red achieve our goals as well as his; life and at the same time fiercely It makes me extremely angryor tht: Dogs or whomever. Graduate students and transfers could play even though the candidate you, I opposes the extensive and per­when, day after day, I pick up Thefor the dorm oftheir choice. 
or anyone else voted for lost. vasive role of government in Observer and other newspapersWhy not resurrc,:t and !>ligthly alter that scuttled proposal of five Gregory Sleven American life. President Reagan is and see nothing but criticism foryt·ars ago? C<lmpctltion is for fun. We suggest that Notre Dame permit St.}osepb's Hall a man committed to peace. 
Ronald Reagan's actions as Presi­its off·carnpus student-athletes to become "free agents," free to enjoy, However, he favors a peace based dent ofthe United States. A certainathll'tic competition with the same hall, even after they have moved on strength rather than vacillation. 
amount of criticism is expectedoffcampus. 
And Ronald Reagan is strongly 
(and t"Vcn encouraged) from the 
DearEditor: committed to the right to life for media for any president, but it is "He was like a cock who thought the unborn. Do these ideals con­usually countered by an equalthe sun bad risen to bear him flict with those of the Notre Dame amount ofpraise :dso. In the case of
Doonesbury Garry Trudeau 
crow." community? I think not. In fact, the 
The Observer, the latter is nonex­
--George Eliot Notre Dame student body 
istent. 

overwhelmingly backed Mr. 
The climax of this criticism


Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556  Jiditor-in-Cbief...... ..... Managing Editor.. ..  ........ _John Mc:Grath ........ Tom jac:kman  SMC Executive Editor .............. .... Mary Agnes Carey SMC News Editor.. .. ........Cathy Domanico  
The Observer b  an  independent newspaper published bv  the students of the  Executir•e Neu•s Editor . ...  .... I.ynne Daley  Photo Editor.....  ......................  ......John Macor  
University of Notre Dame duLac and Sacnt Mary's College. It _does not nece:--san~\  .Veri'S J-;ditor.  .... Tim Verc:ellotti  
reflect the policies of the admmtstranon of either mst1tut1on. 1he news 1:-­ reportt d  .Veu•s Etlitor....  ...john Higgins  Business Manager...  .. .. Rich Coppola  
as accurately and as objectively as poss1ble. Ednonals represent the optnwn of a ma·ority of the Editorial Board. Commentanes, op1n1ons, and_ letters an· the vt~w:-­of /h~ir .....t .s. Cdumu S(?ace 1s. a_vatlable to all members of the cornmu_nlty.' .:~~d  Senior Copy Editor .... Sports l:'tlitor .. . Features Editor.....  .. Mary Fran Callahan ...............Mil·had Ortman .. Rid Hermida  Controller..... ..... Joe MuUiur Adr,erttstng Manager.. . .. .. ........ Mark EUis Production Manager .... .............. Ryan Ver Bcrkmoes ctrculatton Manager.. ..Tom MacLennan  
the {  •:ssior. of ":trytng op:mons on campus. througl' lt"tters. 1s enun1r l..,t d.  

~~iiiiiiiiiiiii~~~~~~~~~~~~~iiiiiii.-~~--~i.iiiiiiii~iiii-iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii--ii-ii_iii.iiiitiij_iiii-:.: w---.......~-~--.F ,:::;:::_;;;w;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;-....~­
he Observer-Editorials WedJ:!esday, April29, 1981 -page 6 
Final musings from Outside Wednesday 
doing four minute mile, and I guess I'll not
When started this and is taken seriously, but see the other side. As I have said 
Anthony Walton
column, I didn't think that I would jump on the bandwagon and con­Riehle's administration showed before, if the Reaganites at Notre ever get to the last one, that every gratulate him also. His is a tremen­that some things can be done, and Dame have the right to have week l would have something on dous achievement, and all the if the student body ever gets be­Reagan speak, those unhappy with hind tlie SBP office substantial the choice are entitled to know the
my mind worth discussing at more impressive in light of the Outside Wednesday length. Some would say that I diversity ofhis other activities and changes and improvements could rationale behind the decision. never did, but it. has been an achievements. There's a lot oftalk come about. Another of this
facet Reagar1 made without consulting students interesting learning experience. and conjecture about what makes Which reminds me: Why hasn't situation bothers me also. In his one way or the other. Of course, There are all kinds of classic last Notre Dame the place it is, and Fr. Hesburgh yet answered the column this past Monday, John that is one ofthe prices you pay for column topics, ranging from the men like Aragon are among the ex­questions, or explained the choice Higgins spoke ofthe difficulties en­attending a private, Catholic 500-word thank you note to the amples. of Reagan as commencement C01Jntered by the Students Con­school, but something that last-chance scathing polemic, but I I would also like to _congratulate speaker. Once the decision has cerned About Commencement everyone to lose sight of
seems 

will not indulge in any of those. l Paul Riehle on his term as SBP. This been made and the invitation has (SCAC) in .getting their flyers around here is that universities ex­
will take advantage of the last is a much maligned position, and a been extended, there is not much printed by the University Copy ist for students. Students pay column right to step outside ofthe very thankless job, but I think that can be done in terms ofchang­Center. Perhaps this incident was thousands of dollars to go to column and tie up a few loose Riehle accomplished some good ing the speaker or affecting the nothing more than coincidence, school here each year, and are . 
reforms, developed new ideas
ends. ceremony, but Fr. Hesburgh does but there have been other more in­treated like a herd ofcattle. There First of all, I would like to con­(Chautauqua being first and owe us an explanation beyond sidious occurrences involved, 
is no relevant student input on any­gratulate certain people on their foremost) and opened. doors for "There are two sides to c::.v.ery such as female members of SCAC thing of any consequence,achievements this year, most nota­his successors to continue the pancake; You can see one side and being assaulted in Dillon Hall whether it be room assignments bly Chuck Aragon and Paul Riehle. progress. Student government at l can see the other." I, for one, while distrubing literature, leaders for Senior Formal, kegs in rooms, Aragon has gotten a substantial Notre Dame has gained the reputa­would like it if he would flip over of SCAC receiving obscene and parietals, commencement amount of publicity since his sub-tion of being something of a joke the pancake so the rest of us could abusive phone calls, the removal of speakers, student government, or SCAC literature and posters from housing. Whose university is it? public places around the campus, But, this is still a good place. In and other incidents of abuse and fact, I couldn't imagine going to harrassment of SCAC members. school anywhere else. That's why This is the tlipside of the Golden we have to be concerned with Dome, the kind ofthing that makes making it better. I've often thought people either love or hate Notre that the main problem with Notre Dame. Controversies bring out the Dame is that people come here to best and the worst in people, and be alumni, not students. It's easy to I'm disappointed that there are fac­get that impression, and I don't tions on campus that feel thalt k>IOW if it's true or not. Only time other groups are not entitled to will tell. But another year is down their opinion. and nothing has happened to make I often wonder what it will take me think not. Perhaps next year to make the administration more will be different. accountable to the student body, because the Reagan controversy is Anthony Walton, ajuniorfrom just the latest in a long line of ad­Batavia, Ill., will return with ministrative decisions that were "Outside Wednesday" in thefall. 


Spying increase will boost CIA business 
Things may be looking up at the CIA. Some Reagan supporters Art Buchwald and intelligence officials have asked for permission to once again spy on Ameicans at home 
Capitol Punishment 

Reagan visit ·an honor 
11nd abroad,. as well as use illegal searches, physical surveillance and infiltration of domestic or­"I'm not saying they did or 
I would rather be addressing the recognizing the value of a strong ganizations. they didn't. But we must go in following words to the students family unit in society are Christian Louis J. Bosso After the abuses of Watergate there and find out who was really and faculty who will be showing moral values. Liberal "give-away" and Nixon, Presidents Ford and behind the demonstrations." up tonight in front of the South programs destroy not only the Carter told the CIA to get out of "So every group that won't go
Opinion
Dining Hall to protest President most important unit ofsociety, the the domestic spying business, along with Reagan's program has Reagan being chosen to speak at family, they also destroy the pride which was a blow to the Agency's to be monitored by you. people?" commencement. H T owever, be­and responsibility Americans dents Concerned About Com-pride, and caused terrible mon.:le "Not every group. We have to cause they would most likely not should have in their lives, their mencement (SCAC) was that "El problems out at Langley. zero in on the ones who will be grant me the courtesy to express work, their actions, and their Salvador is a complex issue." Lin-.. M" told me it had been a dark hurt most by cuts-the poor, the my feelings, will not be a fair country. fortunately it was not presented as period for "'The Company." students, the unemployed and the representation of the Senior Class, Conservatives do not know all one. It is imperative that the U.S. "Our hands were tied in the environmentalists. Under Nixon and because the issue at hand is a the answers. But conservatives help other weaker countries in United States under Carter," he we were able to keep a close eye matter ofconsiderable importance know that certain values are essen­their fight against oppressive and said. "We couldn't do a thing on them. But Ford and Carter and debate, I have decided instead tial to society if it is to survive. ruthless governments such as the without checking with the attar-made our job impossible." 
to write this statement to The Ob­Most of those values, if not all of Soviet Union and Cuba. ney general to if we were "I thought Americans had a
see sert>er in the hope that it would them, are in concordance with right to prates\ against their
lhaveonlysuperficiallytouched violating somebody's constitu-Christian values. government.''
reach a greater part of the student upon two of the more important tiona! ights. Thank God the long 
of "'They do have, but we have a
body especially the seniors concerns demarcated in the nightmare is over." 1981. right to know -who they are. We
ThebillionsofdollarsthatPresi-leaflet.lwillbemorethanhappyto "Why is the CIA so intent on 
need dossiers on the Tingleaders
dentReaganhascutfromthesocial discuss these issues in greater spyingonAmericans?" 
to find out what their game reallyLast Saturday night someone programs is not coming out of the detail with the people who think "We have to know who's be-
is."
slipped a leaflet underneath my hands and mouths ofthe needy and they are so concerned with Social hind them, if we're going to do our "If I didn't have a job, I would door. which explicity declared the hungry, but out of the wallets Justice and Christian Values. job.'' 
certainly want to protest. Wouldthat Notre Dame would be acting of the wanton cheats. He has Finally, I feel something should "You lost me." 
that make me a target for theagainst its Catholic tradition in restructured these programs to do be said about our commencement. .. Lqok, Reagan is cutting the Agency?"
choosing President Reagan to away with the tremendous amount I am graduating May 17 and hope budget. A lot of people in this "No, you would be 1n aspeak at commencement. I read of waste of federal dollars to that my commencement will be country, affected by the budget separate category. You're athe leaflet very carefully and al-ensure that those who need assis-remembered as the ~ulmination of cuts, are organizing protests, and 
newspaperman; so you would be
though at times fallacious and tance get it and not merely those ·a very wonderful four years and many of them are coming to investigated by our media branch.
presumptuous statements found who want it. My biggest gripe with not the nefarious embarrassment Washington. This is gong to make We have to keep tabs on yowithin almost made me throw it most of you socially concerned at the hands and mouths of a Reagan look bad. Who has the people to find out who in theout immediately, 1 felt it was my people is that you put everything presumptuous and deluded few. most to gain from making the government is leaking anti­responsibility to finish it. I'm sure in terms of dollars and cents. This We as a student body should be president look bad?" 
administration information tothe other students who agree wih attitude is typical of the .liberal honored that the President of the "The Democrats?" 
you."
the body of the paper appreciated mentality: the more money a per-United States has accepted the in-"No, stupid. There are sinister "It sounds like we're back tothe demagoguery of the writers son has, the better off he is, vitation to speak at our graduation. forces at work in this country that 
the good old days of Watergate."
who took it upon themselves the therefore give the person more ForthebenefitofmostoftheCiass are only too happy to use the dis-responsibility of representing the money. Theiiberalisrenownedfor of 1981, and for the reputation of content of the people for their "The innocent will not be hurt. conscience ofthe Senior Class and never taking astand; he has none. the University: for those who will own subversive purposes." 
The only ones who have anything articulating their concerns. His only aim is to placate public not be able to tolerate President "Are you trying to say that to fear are those who don't like President Reagan is a very moral opinion even if that means the Reagan speaking at commence-when the miners came to town to their mail being read by stran­gers."
and compassionate man, or do 1 destruction ofsociety in the erid. ment, Please, Please don't show up. protest the cuts in their black lung presume too much to say that One ofthe correct statements in Louis]. Basso is a senior resid-cancer benefits, ·the Communists 


being agai·~-s-t_a_b_o_r_r~~n ~:-,,:~~:~:;jiiclii,eii<Jii_iiiojj;~;_:..;:;:-by:_~ -~ui-iiiiii.iSiniigiirii·niii_~~-;:;eii~--n.,a•nlllliHiiiaiilill._iiliiiiii.iiiiiiiilli;ii;;iiiipiiiiuiitiithiieiimiiiiiiluiipiiti;;ollliiliot?.ii.,ii,iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiLiioiisiiAiiniigeiiliie,iiTiiiiimiieiii.,BSiiyiindiiiiic~~:.'..iiiiiiiilll
.. 

~--~ ~ -~-~ --~ 
-


Notre Dame Government 
an Observer news supplement 


WEDNESDAY, APRil. 29, 1981 
38leaders 
Trustees, Fellows head University 
By KATIE McDONNELL 
News Staff 
The Hoard ofTrustees, which Is comprised of381eaders who meet biannually to act upon all University legal is:mes, presides as the hig­hest governing body at Notre Dame. 
Acording to James E. Murphy, associate vice-president for public relations and development and briefing officer for the Board, all busi­ness that is discussed at theSt.' meetings in October and May is initially brought up through one of the Board's seven committees. 
Each committee is made up offrom five to seven members, and no Trustee is required to serve on more than one committee. It is through these committees that new issues are discussed several times a year, and then acted upon according to the respective committee's decision. If an Item receives a recommendation it is brought before the Board at its next meeting. All items that do not receive a commit­tee approval arc immediately dropped. 
Each committee chairman under the Board of Trustees submits a report at each Board session, relaying all activity within the particular area ofthe University to which he is assigned. These chairmen are also responsible for calling a meeting ofthe respective committees at least twice a year. Although one ofthese meetings usually occurson the day before the Board meets, varying circumstances otherwise dictate these dates. 
The seven committees mentioned ~nder the Board ofTrustees are the Executive, Student Affairs, Academic and Faculty Affairs, Financial, Investment, Public Relations and Nominating Committees. 
The Executive Committee acts as the surrogate Board of Trustees when the full Board is not in session. Comprising this select group arc the officers of the Board, the chairmen ofeach committee, officers of the llniversity and other members appointed at-large by the Chairman 
Investing and spending 
O,Meara does job quietly 

By TOM KOEGEL 
SeniorStuffReporter 
The Provost of the University of Notre Dame is the second highest officer of the in­stitution, is in charge of academics and faculty affairs and is the direct superior of 
the Vice-Presidents of Student Affairs and
Provost Timothy O'Meara 
Advance Studies. Nevertheless, the name of 
Roemer oversees order; upholds rights ofstudents 
By TOM SHAUGHNESSEY 
News Staff 
"The Dean of Students is appointed by the University to be in charge of the entire due process that is involved in the rules and regulations ofthe University...and is responsible for enforcing the rules and regulations in a way that student rights are recognized and respected in a due process manner," according toJames Roemer, the dean ofstudents. 
James A. Roemer, a graduate ofNotre Dame with degrees m economics and law, has been the Dean ofStudents sinceJuly of 1975. As the Dean ofStudents, Roemer's responsibilities arc many and varied. Under the direction ofFr. John L Van Wolvlear, the vice president for student affairs, Roemer oversees the student discipline and judicial system, the use of University grounds and lakes, the University Security, all excused absences from class, the Traffic Appeals Board, the J.ost and Found, the Alumni-Senior Club, the Judicial Review Board, and the du Lac Guide to Student Life. Roemer also works closely with the ~irector of Psychological Services to implement withdrawals fur psychological reasons, and to refer to their professional alcohol treatment program any student whose disciplinary infraction was occasioned by alcohol abuse. 
Regardless ofhis other responsibilities, Roemer is usually brought to the forefront in his role a.'i disciplinarian. The "High Sheriff' ofthe University, as he has been called, Roemer works In conjunction with the hall rectors, resident assistants, and judicial boards, han­dling the'more serious breaches ofdiscipline. In his own words, the Dean's job consists of handling disciplinary cases"in a professional way ...using the resources ofthe community." 
The Dean ofStudents cites alcohol abuse as the most serious problem on campus. "Quite a few people occasionally, and a few quite frequently, abuse alcohol. Students commit infractions, such a.'i stealing chairs from (estaurants, punching someone else in the nose, and do other thin~'i that they wouldn't normally do. Sixty to sixty-five percent ofthe cases I handle have something to do with alcohol use. 
"The University recommends moderation in the consumption ofalcohol. Some people go out just to get bla.'ited. This abuse can cause problems now. and continued abuse could cause problems later." 
Roemer realizes that his position often makes him the villain in the eyes of the students, but he accepts the lack of popularity as an inevitable part of the job. He would prefer, however, not to be regarded as a heavy-handed executionerofthe rules. He approaches his · work with a 'different philosophy. "I try to pass a mim>r in front oftheir actions...to get the students to examine thc:ir own behavior." 
ofthe Board of.Trustees. 
The Student Affairs Committee studies the non-academic aspects of student life, by keeping in close touch with student leaders and or­ganizations. 
The development and review of the current academic program is handled by the Academic and Faculty Affairs Committee, in efforts to plan for a successful future. 
The Financial Affairs Committee monitors business proceedings for the University, recommends tuition increases when necessary to the Board, and draws up the annual University budget, which must also receive the Board's approval. 
Investing Notre Dame's endowment and other funds in its jurisdic­tion is the Investment Comm)uee of the Board. As of last May, the increased total reported to the Board placed the University's endow­ment at H51,368,000, one ofthe highest in the country. 
The Public Relations Committee is concerned with programs dealing with the public, in addition to its alumni and fund-raising ac· tivities. Like the Investment Committee, Public Relations also works to increase the University's endowment. The Nominating Commit­tee submits names to be considered for election to the Board ofTrus­tees, by studyingapplicants who best fill the needs ofthe committees. 
These integrated committees were established along with the Board of Trustees in 1967, when the University made a substantial renovation ofits entire governing process. 
For the first eight decades of the University's existence, legal mat­ters were decided upon by a group ofsix Holy Cross priests. In 1920, however, thc!se six decided to establish a group called the Associative Board of Lay Trustees, in an effort to create an advisory council that would administer the University's endowment. though they would 
See TRUSTEES, page 10 
I 
ProvostTimothy O'Meara is not a household word on the Notre Dame campus. "I suspect that I am doing a quiet job of 
,administration," O'Mearasaid. 0'Meara's job may be quiet, but the areas that he handles are not. Decisions that are in some way af­fected by the Provost's office Include faculty tenure and promotions, advanced studies, the University-wide review of the PACE committee, and decisions from Fr. John Van Wolvlear's Office ofStudent Affairs. 
The amount of review exercised by O'Meara in regard to any department's deci­sions varies. While he· is formally placed above the deans of the colleges and the two vice-presidents, he does not formally review all the decisions ofthese areas. 
' "Generally speaking, if there is an issue 
, involving Student Affairs, I expect Fr. Van Wolvlear to handle it," O'Meara said. "The Deans and Vice-Presidents are running their shows, and I expect them to analyze all their options. If Fr. Hesburgh or I see some solu­tion that tb~y may have missed, we may meet with them to point it out, but for the most part they arc responsible for their own areas. "I would love to have a totally open door, but I can't solve all the problems," O'Meara said. He points out his involvements in areas where problems have arisen and he could help, such as the recent changes in the structure of the liturgical music organiza­tion on campus. O'Meara's duties as second-in-command to Father Hesburgh do not involve the larger portion of his time as Provost. "I certainly don't open his mail when he is out oftown," he laughed. "My duties as second-in­command are for the most,part only in case oftremendous emergency." Hesburgh recently appointed O'Meara to write a report on Priorities and Commit­ments for Excellence (PACE), an examina­tion of the University's progress during the 1970's and its direction during the 1980's. A faculty advisory committee and the sranding Provost's Advisory Committee, together with sncnteen study groups will advise O'Meara on the project. "The two committees will, with the in­formation gathered by the study groups, report to me their feelings on where the Uni-
See O'MEARA, page 9 
PAGE7 

Fr. Theodore Hesburgb 
Fr. Hesburgh 
•


gtves 160 percent 
By MARY FRAN CALLAHAN 
Senior Copy Editor 

... 
• Most people who know Notre Dame know the name Theodore Hesburgh. The specific duties, however, which accompany the post ofUniversity President are not com­mon knowledge. 
Some think that Fr. Hesburgh is the man with The Last Word on campus affairs. He, however, must also answer to higher author­ity. The University's Board of Trustees, chaired by Edmund Stephan, literally con· trois Fr. Hesburgh. 
"Hardly a day goes by when I don't talk to Ed (Stephan)," the president said. He ex­plained the Board as a "self-perpetuating body" which "preserves the Catholicity of the place." 
The trustees, however, are not all Cath­olic, but they arc all distinguished and respected in a variety offields. Fr. Hesburgh must obtain permission from the trustees for large University expenditures, such as build­ings, or consult them on controversial policy matters. 
Fr. Hesburgh's "main dealings" though are with the University's five vice presidents. He also has the final word on tenure and Univer­sity appointments. The vice presidents, who oversee the collegiate deans, handle all the academic and student affairs. 
Also acting as a liaison between the Alumni board and the University, Fr. lies­burgh annually addresses the Board and periodically speaks to the rcgronal alumni clubs, located throughout the country. 
The president also celebrates Masses on campus and spends time fundraising outside of the University. If he is out of town, his power is assumed by either the provost or the vice presidents. 
Fr. Hesburgh is also actively involved with a number ofpolitical, acadt·mic, thcolngkal and corporate committees. This year's com­mittees Included: the Washington. D.C.­based Overseas Development Coundl, the 
U.S. Select Committee on Immigration and Refugee Policy, the Camhodian Crisis Com· mittee (chairman), the Jerusalem Ecumt·ni· cal Institute for Advanced Thenlogkal Studies (chairman), the Coundl on Foreign Relations, the Rockefeller Foundation and the Chase Manhattan l¥.mk board -to men­tion a few. 
He said, however, that tht· past rear ht· had "too many" committees. Next year, he will serve on fewer committet·s. Two oftht•t·om­mittees he will be leaving are tht· Rockcfcl· ler Foundation and the Chase Manhattan board, which has caused some controversy since the bank has been accused ofunethical tactics in Third World countries. 
Such outside activities have bt'come a sensitive issue with Fr. Hesburgh. for critics contend that he is not working enough on University-related affairs. 
He answered the charge saying. "I put over 100 percent of time in on the job be· cause 60 percent of the time, I work double shifts. That adds up to more than I00." 
See HESBURGH, page 10 
--~------·----.,­
Observer News Supplement -Campus Government Wednesday, April29, 1981 -page 8 
29 years 
Joyce sees selfas ND treasurer 
ByjEFF HARRINGTON "The only private schools that will term of office In the nation," Fr. Joyce em­
News Staff survive," he said, "will be those able to raise phasized the successful rapport existing be­enough money." tween the University President and himself 
Subordinate only to the University Presi­Considering the University's recent suc­"The officers meet monthly to discuss dent and Provost. thP Executive Vice­cessful fundraising drive, Fr joyce expressed problems and I remain in close contact with President holds one of the most powerful his optimism that Notre Dam~ would be one Fr. Hesburgh," he said. positions at Notre Dame. For 29 years Fr. Ed­of the surviving private institutions. The He added that the decision-making 
mund P. joyce has been the one man in financial campaign, which wound up a year process utilized is "a relaxed, team effort charge of the office's diverse respon­ahead of schedule last December, raised with no formal vote; a good al)ministrator sibilities. pledges of Sl80 million, S50 million over doesn't make decisions unilaterally." Fr. 
Although, technically, the role of the Ex­the original goal. Fr. Joyce attributed the joyce explained that a consensus is usually ecutive Vice-President Is to oversee all drive's success largely to Notre Dame reached thrWJgh consultations with his stall departments within the University, Fr. joyce alumni, a group he labelled"the backbone of and officers ofthe department in question. views his major responsibility as being any fundraising effort." An unprecedented Born and raised in Spartanburgh. South treasurer for Notre Dame. "Since my back­86 percent of NO alumni participated in the Carolina, Fr. joyce received his BCS degree ground is in accounting, I think my foremost campaign. in accounting from the University of Notre duty is to act as chief financial officer," he Fr. joyce explained that his other major Dame in 1937. Immediately after being or­said. 
responsibilities (faculty board chairman, dained in 1949, he was stationed at Notre 
Using the maintenance ofschool athletics director of athletics, and building commit­and the building expansion program as ex­tee chairman) all took a "backseat" to his amples, Fr. Joyce stressed his beliefthat "all financial role in the University during the decisions come down to resources -· and campaign. that's money." He further stated that Notre Fr. Joyce was elected Executive Vice­

Evolving process 
Dame's financial troubles are multiplied by President by the Board ofTrustees in 1952, 
today's nationwide economic woes. "The simultnaeous to Fr. Theodore M. Hesburgh's major issue (at Notre Dame) is surviving be­rise to the presidency ofthe University. 
Student govt. seeks unity
cause offinancial problems. Costs are going Deeming the 2 9 years of experience he up and up, so the future is anybody's guess. and Fr. Hesburgh have shared "the longest 
By KELLI FLINT Riehle expressed optimism regarding the Senior StaffReporter Murday administration. "I can foresee many good things happen­
The Student Body President, along with ing in Don Murday's administration. Don is his Cabinet and the Studeht Senate, the most experienced SBP Notre Dame has represents student interests in all aspects of ever had. He has been a hall president for 2 student life. terms, which means that he served on the 
"Student government is as good as the HPC for 2 terms. people who form it," according to former "He. has worked in student government as SBP Paul Riehle. executive coordinator ofthe cabinet, which 
Riehle described the tone of student gives him a better understandingofthe func­government in general as it has evolved over tions of the cabinet. He has also worked on the past ten years. issues with the Board of Trustees," Riehle 
"Student government underwent a major explained. change aft~r the term of 'The King and His "I was an inexperienced SBP. I came in, Cat' in the early '70s. 'The King' ran on an not knowing how to make all ofthe bodies of 'anti-student government' platform, and at student government work. Don has a very that time, there was much bureaucratic good idea about how to accomplish this, so fighting within the system. As a result ofthis there was a good transition period between fighting, there wasn't much getting ac­his administration and mine. complished in student government. "We communicated information.on an in­
"The King and His Cat" was more or less a formal basis. I think that Don knows all ofthe joke ticket. 'The King' did a lot of funny ins and outs ofthe administration, as well as things during his 2-term 'reign' in student its functions. In an institution like Notre government. 'The King' said he believed that Dame. this is halfofthe battle,~· he said. many students were taking student govern­Riehle sees the need for social space as ment too seriously, which resulted in the one of the most important issues facing the fighting and lack ofaccomplishment. new administration. 
"After 'The King', during the mid-'70s, "I think that Don's major challenge will be mitted ro sponsoring agencies are ac1ce1)ted. there was a rise in the 'me' generation. Stu­the social space problem on campus. He was 
Gordon acts as a middleman between the inciivildualJ)t<lie~IS()t dent government tried to win the respect of involved in getting the Chautauqua project sponsoring agency the professor is seeking funds the nation. offthe ground. What he has to do now is im­wishes to initiate a projectjs to write a·ll!IOlPmiali "As a result, nothing concrete was prove it, make it a real coffee-house.
ac­formulating a budget and su~rnitti~~ the orc:>D<'sal complished. Student leaders made most "There really isn't any atmosphere in the orpublic sector. t ''' )biifih. %1 decisions behind closed doors. Chautauqua right now. He'll have to imple­
Government officials often select grants "Toward the late '70s, the attitude ment the second and third phases of the L.. tri1mn1in.g_ a budget ~v•u'-'"' towards student government reflected that Chautauqua project, which include a game d \ie to the u~""''"" 1""";etn..~··· of the nation. People took more of an inter­room, non-alcoholic beverages -the whole 
sciences.· We'Jl try to bend®tn:.Oqp~•-tt!lwait<.i1~ est in things, and wanted to get rid of those aesthetic quality," he explained. institutions that weren't working," he said. Murday describes the CLC, Cabinet, HPC, 
.. 
and Student Senate as 'constantly interact­ing'. "There is constant interaction among the

Public relations 
separate bodies, with the Senate as the power base. "The SBP operates with all of the student




Frick works as ND~s no. I salesman 
government bodies. When necessary, I deal directly with the administration, as repre­By DAVID SARPHIE "This is a comment on the success ofour graduates and on the part sentative ofthe bodies as a whole. 
StaffReporter 
Notre Dame plays in the realization ofthis success." "The Senate serves the constituents. All The Notre Dame Alumni Association honored Frick for his service legal matters come to the senate, as well as "The one quality that separates Notre Dame from many similar in­to the University and its graduates by presenting him with thejames E. matters of canftict that need an 'OK' by Fr. 
~titutions is the motivation of the faculty and student body," com­Armstrong Award. The award honors an alumnus and employee ofthe John Van Wolvlear, Vice-president for Stu­ments James W. Frick, the University's vice president for public University "who has performed outstanding service and dent Affairs. relations, alumni affairs and development."This motivation propels demonstrated qualities in his personal life that reflect the high prin­"The Cabinet serves as 'troubleshooter' good people to come here. It is the perfect environment for the ciples of the University." Frick is also a Knight of Malta, one of the for students. It doesn't make laws -it inves­
hit l~som ming of both the student and the teacher." 
highest honors bestowed upon Catholics. tigates, which includes dealing with the ad­Frick probably knows the qualities of this University better than Through participation in organizations not related to the Univer­ministration. 
anyone. because for over 15 years his job has been to "sell" Notre sity, Frick has followed the example of University President Fr. "The HPC is an 'input' body. The HPC has Dame to the public. He is in the process of completing the highly­Theodore Hesburgh. He is-currently the chairman of the executive 3 representatives and a chairman on the succeo;sful "Campaign for Notre Dame." This fund-raising effort was committee of the St. joseph County Bank and has worked with the Senate. It is the main lobbying body on targetted to raise $130 million, but the final tal{ies ofgifts and commit­United Negro College Fund and the United Way. "Working with campus, coming up with both resolutions 
ments will total over S 1 79 million. 
outside organizations makes my job here at the University much bet­and input," he concluded. 
Frick credits hard work and a busy travel schedule to much of the ter," he explains. "It gives me a little different perspective." The HPC is the most representative body · campaign's success. "I can't represent this institution while sitting be­Frick's association with the University began when he entered as a on campus, even more so than the Senate, hind a desk. I have to go out and meet people." And when Frick says he freshman in the fall of 1947. Four years later, he received his under­according to HPC chairman Mike Martin. goes out, he means it "Last year I ate 254 dinners away from home," graduate degree in Business Administration. He later received his "We represent both the halls and the he remarked. Frick's travel often takes him to such diYerst: settings as Ph.D. in Educational Administration from Notre Dame. campus community, with representatives Rome, Italy or Lima, Peru. 
Frick joined the University's development stallin 1951 and became from eac:h dorm serving on the council. Although Frick spends much ofhis time talking with the corporate. Director of Development in 1961. Four years later, he was elected "Our goal for '81 -as in every year -is executives ofsuch giants as GulfOil, he realizes that the successofany Vice President for Public Relations and Development, becoming the to improve campus life, particularly dorm 
fund-raising effort depends on the alumni. Frick cites "a genuine Jove first layman to hold such an office at Notre Dame. life. for Notre Dame" and "a pride of association" as causes for the Frick's long association with the University is partly responsible for "The HPC forms a very powerful body. generosity of Notre Dame graduates. 
his high praise of its qualities. "A good organization like Notre Dame Through this power we would like to first Whatever the reasons, their generosity is quite impressive. 86.4 must know who it is and where it's going," he remarks. Few men have improve campus life. We would then like to percent ofthe "living, lay, domestic alumni" participated in the recent worked harder than Frick to help Notre Dame find that,.special iden­develop and define the relationship be­
"Campaign for Notre Dame," and the average alumni gift was U,994. tity and plan its future. 
See UNI1Y, page~ 



!Observer News Supplement -Campus Government Wednesday, April29, 1981 -page 9 
.. . O'Meara 
continuedfrom page 7 
vc:rslty stands and where we: are going In future: years," O'Mearasaid. "The: final report to Father Hc:sburgh, however, will be my 
own... 
O'Meara is excited about the future ofthe 

Fr.jobn Van Wolvlear 

Van Wolvlear oversees student life 
By DAVE RICKABAUGH 
SeniorSkiffReporter 
Fr. John Van Wo!vlear, vice-president for student affairs, characterizes the Office of Student Affairs as being "responsible for every aspect of the student's life except for academic and financial." 
The office of vice president oversees the the dean of students, dean of placements, minority student directors, student ac­tivities, foreign student advisors, psycho­logical services, the health center, campus ministry, housing, the rectors and staff of each hall. 
Fr. Van Wolvlear said the decisions which are his alone "occur when there's a policy question of the University that might con­flict with a proposal coming from one ofthe 
offices. 
"I work closely with the various heads of the departments and If they meet with any thorny problem we sit and discuss it and come to an equitable solution as f.tr as a working arrangement for the students or 
whomever it may be." 
The decisions made by the office result from recommendations submitted by the head of the department involved. Fr. Van Wolvlear stated "the student organizations have a good bit of influence. We try to answer the needs of the students and their rea.<;<mable requt.-sts. I think that that is our main task, to see if It is reasonable. Despite what some people may think, they do have Influence." 
• ·~.Unity 
continuedfrom page 8 
tween the HPC and the Senate. Thirdly, we would like: to further our own Independent identity as a student government body," M artln stated. 
Martin explained that the HPC "had to take a step back" during past year, thus permitting the new Student Senate to gain prestige:. 
"We: arc: now ready, however, to join the Senate and all of the other forms ofstudent government In the front court. We wllljoin them with separate, independent roles, yet work together for all of the students," he sald. 
The: Senate forms a united voice, which can express student views to the administra­tion, according to District 2 representative Brian Callaghan. ~ 
"&fore:, with the: HPC and the CLC, there were too many branches. Very little was get­ting done:, and a lot ofrepltltion was happen­Ing. 
"I think that the new form of student government at Notre Dame will be much more: c:tfc:ctivc:. Hopefully, a lot more can be done: by using the: Senate," he said. 
Martin credited Murday with the prc:sc:ntation of a student consensus to the University administration. "Murday's good rc:lationship with the: administration is making the: Senate: the: one: voice: -a means 
University. "Our report will have to reassess 
the mission of our University as a Catholic 
University, as a great Catholic University," 
he stated. "When Ichose the members ofthe 
central committee (of PACE), I chose 
people who are capable of changing their 
minds on any issue except one: that Notre 
Dame is destined to be the great Catholic 
university." 
O'Meara Is not yet certain Ifthe proposals of PACE will be submitted to the Board of Trustees for approval. "You must remember that the job of the Trustees is not to run the University, but to ensure that the,University is well run," he said. 
One of the chief responsibilities of the Provost Is to review faculty tenure and promotion decisions. After lengthy proceed­ings on all levels, the Provost produces a final evaluation of a candidate's qualifica­tions. 
The tenure process begins with the proceedings ofthe department committees, and then moves through the department chairmen to the deans of the colleges. After the tenure packets have followed this route, they arrive at the Provost's office for con­sideration. 
All tenure decisions are reviewed in two series of meetings In March and April by the Provost's Advisory Committee, which then makes recommendations to the Provost on the decision. According to a letter sent from O'Meara to the faculty earlier this year, the function of the committee is to "provide a broad base of experience and expertise, to detect and help solve problems...and to help ensure that high standards are equitably applied across the University." 
Like the PACE committee, however, the final decision lies with the Provost. "The Provost makes his own decision based on his own knowledge and overall perspective of the University," O'Meara said. ­
O'Meara's decision is then subject to a final review by Fr. Hesburgh, and the can­didate for tenure or promotion is generally notified by the second week in May. 
O'Meara took over the office ofProvost in 1978 at the request of Fr. Hesburgh. In the past he had served as the chairman of the department of mathematics, where he taught freshman calculus for Arts and Letters students. 
"I enjoy the job of Provost," O'Meara said. 
"Ofcourse you have to find time amidst your 
duties to keep up with the developments in 
your field, and research Is no longer pos­
sible." 
"I miss the research and the teaching, but the Provost's office offers other challenges," he said. "I no longer get to see my graduate students publish their work in Russian, but there are other rewards." 
by which the students and the administra­
tion can maintain an effective line of com­
munication," he stated. 
Martin does not see the Senate as having a negative effect on the HPC 
"There are three representatives from the HPC serving on the Senate, so the input is there. These representatives are urged to give their input and ideas they receive from the HPC meetings. 
"Consequently, instead of the HPC presenting their views directly to the ad­ministration, they can submit their ideas to the Senate, which can then submit all ideas to the administration as one voice," he ex­plained. 
The Cabinet serves a decision-making function, according to Social Concerns CoordinatorJim Wolfe. 
' "The Cabinet combinesdifferent points of view to decide on issues," Wolfe said. "We act as 'feelers' for the students, on various aspects ofstudent life. 
"There are three executive coordinators, each with six sub-positions in their area. 
"The Cabinet as a whole is mainly ac­countable to the Student Body Officers. Wolfe outlined the primary concerns o. his group for the 1981-82 school year. 
"Our main project for next year, thus far, is the Social Concerns Film Series. We spon­sor two series, one each semester. 
I BOARD of il 
I 
!uNIVERSITY FnLOWS 
I 

~r----------{~Hn~bu~~lhJP~R~E~~D~E!N~---------, ­
I O'Meara PROVOST I 
I II.---L-1_ 
I 
I 
M81on Van Wolvlear I 
BUSINESS AFFAIRS STUDENT AFFAIRS I 
I 
!CAMPUS LIFE COUNCILII Roemer L~-----.. 
' DEAN OF STUDENTS r I 5BP and CABINET I I HALL RECTORS I 
1 
EXEC· YPI 
J 
FriCk PUBLIC RELATIONS ALUMNI RELATIONS 
DEYELO~NT 

I 
McDonnell I 
DIRECTOR OF STUDENT ACTIVITIESJ 
\ STUDENT SENATE I 
1' 
IHA L PRESIDENT'S COUNCIL fSTUDENTSI 
Cbart by Michael Molinelli 
30-year history 



Studentvoicefluctuates 
ByJEFF CHOPPIN 
SeniorStaffReporter 
The student voice at Notre Dame has both risen and fallen throughout the past few decades, reaching the height ofits power in the late 60 s with the creation of the Student Life Council, a predecessor of today's Campus Life Council. The introduction of the Stu­dent Senate this year indicates that student leadership may be growing once again. 
The student government of Notre Dame from 1950 to 1968 focused around a student senate. In 1968, the senate was composed of41 members: four representatives from each dorm, four off-campus senators and four stay (transitional) senators. However, this senate proved to be too bulky to perform as an effective body. 
In 1968, in response to the radical outcry for a student voice, the Student Life Council was formed. The SLC was initially endowed with legislative power to change Dulac. However, due to structural flaws and ineffective membership, this power was never realized. 
The SLC was created to address broad issues and to set up a tripartite body. This tripartite body would serve as a forum so that administrators, faculty, and students could sit down together and discuss various issues. 
IY The first meeting was held on Oct. 22, 1968. The SLC served effe<.·tlvely for several years as a truly representative and responsive body for the University. The make-up ofthe SLC included six representatives and two ex-officio members each from faculty, student body and administration. By 1973, the SLC had exhausted its energy by battling parietals, the University and South Africa, the Afro-American issue and hall autonomy. The years 197 4 to 1977 saw little action from the SLC. Although a major ruling on sexuality was proposed, this was vetoed by University President Theodore Hesburgh. As the council debated its function to the University, Fr. Hesburgh called the SLC an "anachronism," a throwback to the radical 60s when campus tension had peaked. In 1976, the student body recognized the SLC as no longer dealing with student life. However, the students realized the value of retaining a tripartite body, so they effected a change. In 1977, Dave BenderandJ.P. Russell ran on platforms which called for the restru<.·turing ofthe SLC. Bender won the presidency and proposed the formation ofthe CLC in April of 1977. The focus ofthe new body would centeron hall residence life:. The new membership would includesix rectors, four hall vice presidents, SBP, SBVP, aStudent Union n.·presc.·nta­tive, a HPC representative, the vice president ofstudent affairs, the dean ofstudents, and one faculty representative. The Board ofTrustees authorized the CLC, effective October 31, 1977. On May 4, 1979, the Board amended the original charter to include another faculty rep, an off-campus rep, and the student judicialcoordinator. The first meetingofthe CLC took place on February 6, 1978. Through the change, the body lost all legislative power and merely retained the power to recommend. The recommendations passed in the CLC are sent to the vice president of student affairs. Ifthe CLC wished for an appeal, the recommendation would be sent lO th.e provost, and upon further appeal would be sent to the president. However, since Provost O'Meara and President Hesburgh have never overruled Fr. Van Wolvlear, the appeal process is largely ignored. ­The Hall vice presidents, picked because it was believed that they would be able to donate more time than the presidents, turned out to be an ineffective group. They pla<:ed emphasis on dorm interests and not campus-wide issues. The two faculty reps displayed very little interest in the CLC. Quorums were infrequent and the active members found themselves frustrated. • The purpose ofthe rector's presence was unclear, too. The original intention ofinclud­ing the rectors was to represent the students' needs. The CLC reasoned that the rectors would know the students' needs through having lived with them and would respond to these needs. Instead the rectors chose to block vote and lobby for the administration's wishes. When a resolution would finally be passed by the Cl.C, Fr. Van Wolvlear, Vice President for Student Affairs, would either veto it or indefinitely postpone his response to it. Last spring, several members of the CLC attempted to extend its life. They wanted to change the composition to make the council a viable body. However, the extension was voted down, and the CLC would not meet for almost an entire year. SBP Paul Riehle, who sat on the council last year, proposed changes in the composition ofthe CLC, which the Senate passed onJanuary 28, 1981 and sent to the Board ofTrustees for approval. The Board agreed with the changes and authorized the new constitution. Un!1er the new constitution, the composition includes the five district senators, two faculty, an HPC rep, the judicial coordinator, the off-campus commissioner, the student union director, and the dean ofstudents as voting members. The vice president for student See VOICE, peae 10 
-, 


I 
I I I 
~ 
1' 




Campus Government Wednesday, April29, 1981 -page 10 
24 hours a day 

Rectors create environment 
By MOLLYNOLAND 
News Staff 
What exactly is the role of a rector at Notre Dame? Can he kick a student out ofa dorm? Is he merely an extension ofthe "Notre Dame Bureaucracy" ordoes he operate autonomously? The answers to these questions vary from situation to situation and .from rector to rector, but the basic premise upon which the rectors function is unique to Notre Dame and the envy ofmany schools. 
The role of the rector is much more complex than that ofa live-in house-mother or house-father. According to Fr. Richard Conyers, eight year rector of Keenan Hall, "the role of the rector is the most important role at Notre ·Dame; the rector's role is a first-level pastoral presence in which the rector lives amongst the students and offers interest, enthusiasm, and a 24-hour-a-day presence." A rector must do everything required to guarantee a sound environment for the stu­dent, including taking responsibility for maintenance problems, counseling, spiritual guidance, discipline, community involvement and administrative responsibilities. 
The rectors are important also in. the formation of hall character. Because every rector is different in his use of the power allotted him, the atmosphere of the halls are largely formed by their ideals. "The dorm mirrors the individual rector's view ofdorm life, says Conyers, "and a rector must have a broad, complete vision to make the hall the best it can IM:." 1 
From a woman's point ofview, Sr. Marietta Starrie, four-year rector ofLyons Hall, says "the rector needs to be an adult role model who the students are looking to." Although her role itself differs little .from the role of a male rector, she says, "my position here is challenging and exciting because I am assisting women to make their presence known and felt on a par with men's halls ratherthan simply adjunct to them." 
Stressing the importance of the assistant rector, Sr. Starrie believes that having one lay and one religious staffmember in the hall benefits the students: "it is important for students to see a role model from every walk of life." Like many rector/assistant rector teams, Starrie and her assistant divide up the responsibilities: she takes the Liturgical duties for herselfand leaves the so~bl and governmental activities to her aid. This system frees up the rector for availability to the student, one of the most important requirements of the rector according to both Conyers and Starrie. 
With regard to the question ofadministrative vs pastoral leadership, Starrie admits to feeling a conflict between the two: "although I prefer to handle problems in a pastoral sense, I am responsible to the ad­ministrative rules, and am sometimes forced into an administrative role. However, my experience has been that most people respond pastorally." 
The problem ofexactly how tar that responsibility goes, and exactly what power the rectors have in a student's life, exists as a major con­cern for many students. However, the amount of power a rector ex­erts depends on his or her personality and philosophy. According to ·Conyers, "a rector who shuts himselfofffrom the problems in the hall is not doing his duty." Although every hall head-staffer will use dif­ferent guidelines for dealing with trouble, they must follow basic Uni­versity rules, and eventually refer the problem to Dean of Students 
James Roemer. 

Conyers uses two guidelines to determine delinquency. First ofall, 
a person who exerts negative influence on the hall will be brought 
before Dean Roemer; and secondly, if off-campus living would be 
more beneficial for the student -for instance, ifhe finds an aversion 
to certain hall rules and habitually breaks them -he will be referred 
to the Dean. Although the rector initiates disciplinary action, Dean 
Roemer has the final decision. 

Observer News Supplement ­


-----------J 
jim McDonnell 
McDonnell coordinates activities 
By DAVID SARPHIE 
StaffReporter 
"I am the administrative person who coor­dinates and oversees student activities on campus." This is Jim McDonnell's-own description of his job as Director ofStudent Activities at Notre Dame. McDonnell also serves as an. administrator and advisor for the approximately I70 clubs and organiza­tions at Notre Dame. 
Of primary concern to McDonnell is the funding ofover 50 clubs that do not receive money from other sources. He is the chair­man of a student activity fee subcommittee that must annually allocate 20 percent ofthe total student activity fee to these clubs. With a budget of $34,000, the. subcommittee met last September to determine this funding. 
In years past, the approximately 50 mis­cellaneous clubs received only the left over funds from the student government budget. McDonnell was pleased with this year's al­location process, which allowed the student government 80 percent of student fees and the subcommittee 20 percent. "Two years ago, only 21 ofthe 50 some groups received funds," he !!aid. "This year we were able to fund 50 some groups." 
McDonnell's subcommittee was able to fund several special projects this year. Among these projects were the Van Lines to nearby malls and improvements in the Nazz and ticket office. 
Unlike other institutions, many of the or­ganizations at Notre Dame receive their fun­ding directly from the University. This is one of the reasons that Notre Dame has one·of the lowest student fees in the country. "The activity fee that you pay has a very specific purpose," McDonnell commented. "The large chunk of activities which are university-funded here at Notre Dame come out ofthe student fees at other institutions." 
McDonnell's subcommittee gives highest priority to those funding requests of the volunteer service organizations. "I think it would be fair to say that we give the volun­teer services -those organizations that are providing a ·valuable service to disad­vantaged members of the Notre Dame and South Bend communities, the highest priority." 
Sr. Judith Beattie. the director of Volun­teer Services, and Fr. Mario Pedi assist \1cDonnell as advisors for many University activities. Beattie serves on the student ac­tivity fee subcommittee with McDonnell, while administrating Notre Dame's volun­teer organizations. Pedi is an advisor for the sophomore, junior, and senior classes r.md also works with the Scholastic and thejug­gler. 
\1cDonnell, who has a master of arts de­gree in teaching English and a Ph.D. in history of education from Notre Dame, is in his second year as Director of Student Ac­tivitic:s at Notrt; Dame. McDonnell taught at the high school level for four and one-half years before becoming assistant dean ofstu­dents at Saint Joseph College in Maine. He later served as the dean of students at that college, while teaching part time in the ~nglish and education departments. McDon­nell and his wife, Colleen, have three children. 
Mason manages Universityfunds 
ByJIM McCLURE 
News Staff 
Monetary support of the major goals of the University is the responsibiltiy of the Vice-President for Business Affairs, Thomas ). Mason. 
Mason listed those goals as "instruction, research, and public service," and added that "We are not involved in any of these areas. Our basic thrust is service. We're here to service the academic community." 
Notre Dame's current total revenue is S96,524,295. Mason oversees and records how this money is spent and invested. His areas of responsibility include the control­lers office, the financial aid office, the invest­ment office, the University insurance office, and any areas relating to non-academic per­sonnel. 
Other responsibilities include the physi­
continuedfrom page 7 
In .order to work double shifts, he works into the early hours ofthe morning and often answers mail on airplanes. Much of his time is spent in New York and Washington, D.C., where a majority of his committees are headquartered. 
He prides himself on answering all his mail personally and doing so with a certain degree ofexpediency. "I can make decisions quickly," he said, "I have to." 
A sample of mail? According to the presi­dent, approximately ten letters croSI' his 
• • .Trustees 
continuedfrom page 7 not be the legal trustees of Notre Dame. Today, the University Fellows provide three basic functions at Notre Dame. These duties involve electing trustees every six years, maintaining the University's religious character, and approving all issues concern­ing the disposal of any appreciable amount of University property. Aside .from these functions, the Board ofTrustees governs the University. In recent years, the Board ofTrustees and its integrated group ofUnivesity Fellows has been faced with many controversial issues, such as coeducation at Notre Dame, the ap­proval ofalcohol on campus, the question of subsidizing off-campus housing, and a re­quest fqr more social space that still exists today. 

Thomas]. Mason 
cal plant (construction and maintenance ot campus buildings and grounds), suppoh services (such as the laundry, golf course, and dining halls), and maintenance of the records ofthe Campaign for Notre Dame. 
• • .Hesburgh 
desk each week from mothers of rejected students -pleading with him to let the,ir children in. There are also grievances and requests for appearances and advice. The committees generate their own sacks of mail. 
This year, Fr. Hesburgh will deliver seven commencement addresses at colleges and universities throughout the nation. 
Since he frequently travels to foreign countries, the question of communication does arise. Fr. Hesburgh said he can speak five languages fairly adequately, and speaks seven to eight "O.K." 
"The lion's share of the money comes .from student tuition and fees," Mason stated. The other sources of revenue are sales and services of auxiliary enterprises, endow­ment income, and various gifts, contracts, and grants. 
Mason does not set the priorities oft Campaign for Notre Dame. That is done in part by James Frick, Vice-President for Public Relations, Alumni Affairs, and Development, and in part by the donors themselves. "Most donor's dollars are clas­sified as Restricted, which means the money is restricted to specific areas the funding was raised for," Mason explained. 
New construction currently underway in­cludes the Stepan Chemical Buildingand the new WNDU Studios. Mason is also involved with an extensive dormitory-remodeling project and the rebuilding ofSaint Edward's 
Hall_ 

He has set 1982 as his retirement year, a year which would mark his 30th year as Uni­versity President. He said he thinks and hopes the trustees will give him another job at Notre Dame, which "could possibly in­volve some travel" 
As for the present, he has another year's work waiting for him in his plush office beneath the golden dome. Sitting J>ehind his desk with a stack of mail, a packed travel schedule and a number ofdecisions to con­front, he said, "I just take life a day at a time. That's the only wav 1know how to survive." 
.Voice 

continuedfrom page9 
affairs was made a non-voting member. 
Riehle re-created the CLC to serve as a body more oriented towards student affairs in general, not just those related to hall life. The council will still continue to serve as a recommending body, but the new constitution contains mandatory attendance require­ments and a shorter reply period for Fr. Van Wolvlear. The five senators create cross ties between the Senate and the CLC, with each body providing input to the other. The Senate will serve as the students' legislative body. 
The administration views the council as a "sounding board." However, Fr. Van Wolvlear said that the CLC has "lost its effectiveness and usefulness with this office" because it met only twice this year,and he stated that he hoped the CLC would be "resuscitated" next year. He reported that two years ago "alot was discussed, we got quite a bitaccomplished." 
Dean Roemer, despite his negative actions in the ClC in the past, still holds a voting 
.position in the CLC. Explaining that the CLC is the official student advisory group to the Office ofStudent Affairs, he said the students have more power now than ever before in the CLC because ofthe better student to faculty/administrator ratio. In regard to the change from a legislative body (SLC) that addressed University policy to the present CLC which addresses student affairs, R~emer said,"Students nowadays are more interested in their careers, the personal aspect, and less interested in University policy." 
i 
I 
I I I 
I I 
~ 


r------------------~------------------.--­
Wednesday, April29, I98I -page II
The Observer=-=== 




Toda~========~== 
Molarity Michael Molinelli 


WA~ H'tLF ASL-EEP 

ACROSS 25 Rds. 56 Neverth• 13 Raise 1 Cause 26 Understand less, for 14 Affirms Involvement 27 Maize unit short again
The Daily Crossword 
10 Lowest 29 Soul: Fr. 57 Richards of 23 Tiny point 30 Illegal tennis 24 Deviate 

15 Soaks In pitch 56 Formal wear 26 Fashion sauce 34 Pull-over 59 Baseball 28 Harvests 16 Entertainer 36 Hanky· -61 Certain 30 Plundered 
Bordonl 37 Deputy chemical 31 Forebears 17 Outstanding 38 Bobolink compounds 32 Increase 18 Garcia-, 41 Feasts 62 Made an of power 
Spanish 43 Confederate educated 33 Boxing poet hero guess result 19 -all(take 44 Chemical 63 Obtuse 35 Mohammedan 
one's life) ending 64 Repairmen, title 20 Pasture 45 Asner and at times 39 Conjunction 21 Turkish Ames 40 Not one or 
bigwigs 46 Hostelries DOWN the other 22 -we forget 48 The same 1 Urge on 41 Chemists' 23 Cleverly 50 Drunkard 2 River vessels 
humorous 54 Confused in WWI 42 Nigerian 3 Goads tribesman Tuesday's Solution 4 Utmost 47 Vends 
49 The others 
50 "Merry Widow" composer 
51 Join together 52 Jewish feast 53 Pays atten­tion to 55 South African fox 57 San-, Italy 60 Pose for a 

WEL.L1 1F TI-l~ WORM lr.}OUL-l> Jusr ~TAY IN 
5DH£TIH£~ .I71-liAlK B£P TH~ eARLY BIRD 
HAJJ~ qREA.TEST 
ADVAAJC.ES IN 1HOU6,HIWeRe HAD£ WHt:'N H£ 
WDULI>N'T HAVE AN'(THIN6J 

Campus 
•12:15 
p.m. -microbiology department seminar, "the im­munology ofaging." dr. marc r. weksler, cornell univ. medical college, galvin auditorium. 

•3:30 
p.m. -aero/mechanical engineering seminar, "effect of interblade phase angle and loading on cascade pitching stability," dr. f. carta, united technologies research center, 356 fitzpatrick. 

•4 
p.m. -air force rotc awards ceremony, memorial library auditorium. 

•7 
p.m. -film, "a king in new york," architecture 202. 

•7,9,11 
p.m. -film, "life ol brian," engmet·ring auditorium, sponsored by semprc fidclis 


society. 

•7:30 
p.m. -arts and letters business society pn·scntation, career opportunities and place­ment advice, 124 hayes-healy. 

•7:30 
p.m. -me<.·ting, pax christi group, "education for peace," presbyu·ry basement. ~H p.m. -philosophy dept. lecture, "science, folk lore, and ideology," geoffrey lloyd, u. of cambridge, galvin aud. 

•H: 
15 p.m. rc.·dtal by soprano susan I. groesl·hd, memoriallibrarv auditorium. 



. . . Tennis 



When you're discussing something as important as your future, it's urgent that you get the straight facts ... and that you understand them. Air Force ROTC can be an important part of your futur~. We would like to outline some of the facts and invite you to look into gathering more. 
It's a fact: the Air Force needs highly-qualified, dedicated officers ... men and women. It's a fact: we need people in all kinds of educational disciplines. It's a fact: we're prepared to offer financial help to those who can qualify for an Air Force ROTC scholarship. 
Get together with an AFROTC representative and discuss the program. We'll give you all the facts. It could hp· one of the most important talks you've ever had with anyone about your educational plans. 

Call Capt. Gottrich 'No ROTC Bldg. 283-6635 For more information 
J I • way of diE 
nmttnuedfrompage 16 
least we played tough when we had 
to." 

Petro was especially pleased with 
Walsh, who waged war with Dvonch 
in the sixth spot. 
"Peggy really showed me a lot 
today," Petro said. "She mad<.· a ter­
rific comeback, especailly consider­
ing she was playing agirl who played 
number-two last time. She's not at all 
fazed by that kind of thing -she 
doesn't think in terms of the score, 
or how good her opponent may be, 
she's only concerned with how she's 
playing." 

Schuster and Shukis each posted 
important momentum-generating 
singles victories heading into the 
AlAW Division II Region V tourna­
ment May 14-16 in Detroit. Both 
players bounced back aftn first-set 
losses to snap pt·rsonal four-matd1 
losing strt·aks. 
"It was very t•ncouraging to sec 
Cindy and Carol win, especially thl· 
way they did it," Petro said. "It 
wasn'r like thc:y coasted to 6-0, 6-0 
wins, but they showed a lot of 
character to com<.· back after losing 
the first set, especially since they 
had been in slumps hcfore today." 
The Irish, who wc:re scht·dull-d to travel to DeKalb, Ill.. for the North­ern Illinois Invitational this weekend, instead will he idk until the regional tournament. Thl· North­ern lllinois tournament was l'an­cc:lled after the Huskies' facilities were damaged by a ren·nt tornado. 
Yesterday's Results Notre Dame 9, Saint Mary's 0 SINGLES 
No. 1 -Cindy Schuster (ND) del Ann 
Huber 5-7. 7-6. 6-2. 
No.2-Linda Hoyer (ND) del. Karen Smith 
6-0.6-1 No. 3 -Pam Fischette (ND) del. Mary Soergel6-2. 7-6. No. 4 -Carol Shukis (ND) del Carmel Maenza 2-6. 6-2. 6-1 No. 5 -Mary Legeay (ND) del. Maureen 
O'Brien 6-0,4-6. 6-t. No.6 ~Peggy Walsh (ND) del. Jan Dvonch 4-6. 6-4, 6-2. 
DOUBLES 
I 

No. 1 -Hoyer & Tina Stephan (ND) del. 
i

Huber & Soergel6-4, 7-6. No. 2 -Legeay & Fischette (NO) del Dvonch & Maenza 6-3, 6-3. 
I 

No. 3-Sheila Cron111 & Stas1a Obremes­I key (NO) del~ O'Brien & Smith 6-2, 6·2 
l 
I 



------------·----~~ 


--~ ----------------------~--·-----~~--------------­
The Observer -Sports Wednesday, April29, 1981 -page 12 


By ED KONRADY since all of the courts •over there are year this year in the fact that he im­Sports Writer made of clay. If anything, I need to proved a lot over the summer, but work on my consistancy with we really didn't have any room for
Noonan 
An "arkie" is a often sterotyped as groundstrokes, which is necessary him. He really came in and played always inside the architecture build­to do well on clay. well; but Coach (Head Tennis Coach ing, hunched over a drafting board, "If I don't get a chance to play," Tom Fallon) put him in at doubles drawing and worrying over the aS­continues Noonan,"! will really have because he would help the team
cotnbines signment due the next day. Do they to work hard the summer of my more. Tim has sacrificed a lot this ever do anything but draw, someone junior year to regain my spot." year, and has really helped the team, may wonder. Noonan's captain this year, Herb and I commend him for it." 
One person that certainly does Hopwood, is a bit more confident Noonan was ranked second in the something else is Tim Noonan, who about Ban a regaining his spot. "It will Missouri Valley Conference in

studies 
successfully combines an ar­hurt him a little bit competitively, doubles. According to Hopwood, chitecture major with the life of a but ifanyone can do it, Bana can. His "Tim has very good volleys, and is varsity tenis player. strokes are so natural, that he could smart about what he is doing. He has 
Noonan, who is also known as stop playing for a month, and come been playing doubles so long, that "Bana", plays third doubles with back onto the court and play well, he knows what to do at the right
and 
Paul Idzik, and plays sixth singles simply because he is such a good time." when the match goes indoors. athlete. It will definitely help him This afternoon, Noonan will be 
The sophomore Keenan Hall resi­mentally, because he can relax for a teaming up with his present partner, dent is looking forward to his trip to year, then come back and be ready Paul Idzik, and will be shooting for Rome next year with his fellow to play tennis." his 20th win at doubles this season.

tennis 
"arkies". Hopwood also emphasizes the im­Noonan was paired with Jim Falvey "If I get a chance to play over portance of Noonan's role on the early in the year, and has a 2-3 there, it will really help my game, team this year. "Tim has had a tough record with him. Paired with Paul 

GRADUATING TO INDIANAPOUS? 
VISIT AN OXFORD COMMUNITY! mention this ad for a graduation bonus 


Ever one 
hast eir 
eyeonan Oxford 

Apartment. 
Discover services far exceeding your expectations 
CORDIALITY. MAINTENANCE. SOCIAL YOUR 
It is 1mportant to us that yuur Your free time is important 
PROGRAMS. HAPPINESS. 
new home and communitv to you for relaxation and Everv Oxford Communitv is
surroundings meet your · recreation. The management It has been reported that Oxford expectations. Our professional and maintenance staff .of Communities far exceed their
<kdi~ated to providing a ;,ay of life ... not just another place to
management staff is ready to every Oxford Community will competition in SERVICE and 
live. Enjoy a variety of activities
assist you in any way possible guarantee your apartment is SERVICES to their residents. with a courteous and friendly ready when you move in and that Why? Because we are proud of
designed to meet your social, recreational and educational
attitude. In an Oxford requests are handled promptly, our communities. It is our goal
needs. A monthly newsletter lets
Community, you are number one. courteously and efficiently. to make your life comfortable you know the many activities 
and enjoyable during your stay.planned each month. 
Visit one of our communities listed below, today. 
Wesr

Ido believe 
• Abington 298-8005 A hit of Engiand come to the States at -l?th and Georgeto~m Road

I'vecome 
Bayhead Village 298-7510 Dock vour frigate

onto 
One quarter mile West of 1-~65 on W. 38th Street 
Chesapeake Landing 297-2240 Rest your dinghv

something. 
One Quarter mile West of l-~65 on W. 38th Street 
* Deercross 297-4700 \enture into the Canadian North Woods \Xest of l-~65 on 38th Street at Eagle Creek Pkwy. 
Homestead 297-1630 
Re_lax and "go fishing" or play a hearty game of racquethall S100 \Xest 3-lth Street 
Pebble Point 297-1338 The Californta sun has set West on 
S.R. 136 hetween 1-~65 and Dandy Trail 
*W.ndDrift 291-7700 Come sail the silken sails to
i.~ 
7100 W 38th Street
OXFORD DEVELOPMENT CORP 
Norrh 
Easr
Autumn Woods 849-1422 Scandia 842-4005 
Salem Courthouse 542-1001
Every season of the year glows at 
Contemporary, spacious and luxurious . 9lst and Allisonville Road A touch of "Colony" and a jogging track.
complete with racquethall at 9200 North Allisom·ille Road 
N.E. corner of 1-465 and E. 56th Street
Riverwood Apartments and Townhomes 842-2434 
Cheswick 897-9200 Enjoy a stroll in the woods or cozy up *Woods Edge 849-9400 A charming English Tudor Communi!};
6200 E. 86th St. 
with 'pacious townhomesnext to the fireplace at Along the north edge of Castleton Square. 
IJ20 I East 30th Street96th and Allisonville Road 
Idzik, Bana has a 1 7-7 mark. 
The Irish are playing the Blue Demons of DePaul, whom they beat 9-0 last year. "They shouldn't be too tough," says Hopwood, "I don't an­ticipate a tough match, but you never know. One advantage for them is that the match will be played on clay, but that shouldn't be a real problem since all of us have played on clay before. When we went to Mexico last year, all we played on was clay." 
Looking past DePaul, this Saturday the Irish will play their final match in the friendly confines of Courtney Tennis Center, against Eastern Mich­igan at 2:30p.m. 
Scully 

continuedfrom page 16 
MacAfee in 1978. 
Scott Zettek, John Hankerd, Pete Holohan, Tim Huffman, Jim Stone, Toin Gibbons and others will con­
tinue their wait today when the league conducts rounds five through I5. The Observer will run a feature on each Notre Dame draftee in a Sports Special tomorrow. 
-The Observer 
• • .NFL 

continuedfrom page 15 
Third Round 

t. New Orleans, Frank Warren (DE) Auburn. 2. Seattle, Bill Dugan (OG) Penn St .. 3. N.Y. Giants, John Mistier (WR) Arizona St.. 4. N.Y. Jets. Ben Rudolf (DT) Long Beach St .. 5. St. Louis. Jeff Gnf· fin (DB) Utah, 6. Green Bey, Ray StiiChowlcz (K) Michigan St., 7. Los Angeles (from Tampa Bay), Greg Meisner (DT) Pittsburgh, 8. Cincinnati. John Simmons (DB) Southern Methodist. 9. San Fran· cisco. Carlton Williamson (DB) Pittsburgh. 10. Loa Angelo (from Wahlngton), Bob Cobb (DE) Artxona, 11. Chicago, Ken Margerum (WR) Stan· ford. 12. Baltimore, Randy Van Divier (OT) Wash· mgton, 13. forfeited by Denver because strong safety Bill Thompson played last summer belore signing a contract. 14. Washington (lrom "!iami thru Los Angeles). Russ Grimm (C) Pittsburgh, I 5. Kansas City, Marvin Harvey (TE) Southern Missis­sippi. 16. New Orleans (from Mlnneaota), Hoby Brenner (TE) Soutllem Cal, 17. Detroit, Don Greco (OG) Western Illinois, 18. Pittsburgh, Rick Donnalley (C) North Carolina. 19. Minnesota (tram New England), Tim Irwin (OT) Tennessee, 20. Kansas City (from Cleveland thru Denver), Roger Taylor (OT) Oklahoma St., 21. Buffalo, Mike Mas· 
ley (WR) Texas A&M. 22. San Diego, Irvin Phillips (DB) Arkansas Tech. 23. Kansas City (from Los An· geles), Lloyd Burruss (DB) Maryland. 24. Houston, Mike Holston (WR) Morgan St .. 25. Atlanta, Scott Woerner (DB) Georgie, 26. Dallas, Glen Titensor (DE) Brigham Young, 27. Philadelphia, Greg Lafleur (TE) LoUJsoana St. 28. BuHalo (from Oak· land), Robert Gathers (DT) South Carolina St. 
Fourth Round 

Miami (from New Orleans). Sam Greene (WR) Nevada-Las Vegas, 2. N.Y. Giants, Cliff Chatman (RB) Central St. (Oklahoma). 3. N.Y. Jets, AI Wash· ington (LB) Ohio St.. 4. Seattle, Scott Phillips (WR) Brigham Young, 5. St. Louis. Steve Rhoades (WR) Oklahoma. 6. Tampa Bay. John Holt (DB) West Texas St .. 7. Washington (from Green Bay). Tom Flick (QB) Washington. 8. Dallas (from San Fran­cisco). Scott Pelluer (LB) Washington St.. 9. Cleveland (from Wa•hlngton), Mike Roblneon (DE) Arizona, 10. Cincinnati. Guy Frazier (LB) Wyomong. 11 Baltimore. Tim Sherwin (TE) Boston Ccllege. 12. Chicago. Todd f3ell (DB) Ohio St. 13. Miami. Brad Wright (OB) New Mexico, 14. Kansas City. Ron Washington (WR) Arizona St .. 15. Den­ver, Mark Herrmann (QB) Purdue, 16. Detroit. Tracy Porter (WR) Louisiana St.. 17. Pittsburgh, Rabble Martin (WR) Cal Poly·S.L.O.. 18. Mln­nnote, John Swain (DB) Miami (FIL), 19. New England. Don Blackmon (LB) Tulsa. 20. Loa An­gelea (from Buffalo) George Lilja (C) Mlchlg8n, 
21. San Diego, Amos Lawrence (RB) North Carolina. 22. Green Bay (from Los Angeles thru Washington), Richard Turner (DT) Oklahoma. 23. Houston, Nick Eyre (OT) Brigham Young. 24. San Diego (from Cleveland), Eric Seibers (TE) Maryland. 25. Dallas, Derrie Nelson (LB) Nebraska. 26. Atlanta, John Scully (C) Notre Dame, 27. Philadelphia. Calvon Murray (RB) Ohio St., 28. Oakland. Johnny Robinson (DT) Louisiana Tech. 
To My 
Notre Dame Family 

for your outpouring of affection and care expressed at the death of my mother, much thanks and blessings. 
Peacefully, 
Joe Cosgroue II



The Observer 
Golfleaders moving'o 
By ARMAND KORNFELD 
.\jmrts Writer 
Earning four monograms in one 
sport is a rarity at Notre Dame, so 
one: is surprised to learn that this 
year's golfteam includes two players 
who have: achieved this feat. Both 
co-captains, Tim Sachc:ck and Tom 
McCarthy, an· playing their fourth 
seasons on the squad of six. They 
have also dcvdopcd into close 
friends off tht· golf course, and 
Coach Noel O'Sullivan credits much 
of the team's succ:css to the kader­
ship oftht· two st·niors. 
Sachc<:k is a native ofSouth Bend, 
and says of his dedsion about col­
kgt.·,"l used to he a Notre Dame­
hater when I was in high school. I 
almost went to Purdut·, hut in the: 
t.'fHI Coach O'Sullivan nmvinn·d me 
of the value of tht.· education at 
Notn· D:~mt· :~nd g:~ve mt.· the hcst 
offer." 
I k ha.~ nt·vt.·r lookt.•d back. A husi· 
ness major, Sadlt.'l'k t·arncd a spot in 
till' top ~ix during hb frl'shman yt.·ar 
and ncVl'r rclinquishl'd it. ll<>wcvl'r, 
that ir; not to say tht·rc havl' hn·n no 
prohlt-ms, 
"Early in his can·c:r hl'rl'," O'Sullivan explains. "Tim was a very stn·aky player. lie wa.~ brilliant at trrnc:s and mnliocrl' at timcs. Finally, this yt·ar, ht· has devdoped tht· con­sistency nt.Tded to hl' great. And from this consistcnc:y coml's a grl'at tkal of kadt·rship. I lc It-ads hy t'X· ampk." 
Act·ording to Sat·heck, the im­provt·ment is a result of simply learning the courses on which he plays. "I've learned my limitations. I've learned when to ht· aggressive and where to hl' aggressive." 
All this suggt.·sts a quality which O'Sullivan set's as the 6'2 senior's most valuable. "Tim is a very intcl­ligt·nt pl'rson, and his intelligence ha.~ carried ovl'r on to the golf course:. lie probahly knows thl' rules as wdl as anyone, and this improves his game trl'mendously. 
"Tim will make it hig one day, in 
lift'. I ml'an. lie ha.~ the intelligence 
and certainly tht· drive." 
All tht· lntdllgence and hard work Is paying off this season. Sacheck has the low average on the team, the low round, and will ht· awarded the academic award a.~ well. In addition, ht· stands an c:xcellcnt chance of receiving a personal invitation to the N< :AA tournament. 
As t<>r next year, Sachcck has ac­cepted a job offer from a South Bend accounting firm and will continue playing In local tournaments as an amateur. 
"I used to dream ofgoing pro," he says, "until I got to college." 
Which brings us back to Tom McCarthy, for he too once dreamt of the pro golfers' tour, and his dream also faded. The senior business major sees only the positive side. 
"Finally, there will hl' no pressure playing golf. All through high school and college that pressure existed. 1r will be nice to go out and just play with friends for a change without having to worry abour my scc:zre so much." 
'We're allgreatfriends, and that's unusual be­cause most teams have match play amongst themselves and wind up hating one anoth­er.' 
llis tone sounds almost am· hivaknt. hm once on the golfcourse Tom McCarthy is anything but am­hivaknt. 
"McCarthy h~s the most com· pctitive head and heart that I've ever coached. He wa.~ raised to he a win­ncr," says O'Sullivan. 
Maybe, hut he shies away from questions about his own game and speaks about the team instead. 
"Coach O'Sullivan does·a good job 
of recruiting guys who fit together. 
We're all great friends, and that's un­
usual because most teams have 
match play amongst themselves and 
wind up hating one another liS a 
result. For us, a tournament is kind of 
like a road trip, and we play golf 
when we get where we're going." 
Still, McCarthy is a very good gol­
fer, and he has maintained his stroke 
average ncar 77 during his four years 
a very respectable mark. 
O'Sullivan attributes McCarthy's 
good scoring ability to his short 
game and green play. 
"He can save par better than any 
player I've ever coached," says 
O'Sullivan. 
Of course, even golfers arc nor­
mal, and McCarthy's favorite 
pasttime is goirl'g to bars. 
"We're still trying to get Stoney 
( Fcrlmann) to drink," he kids. 
Thl' two seniors arc tht· heart of 
this yl'ar's ream, but they arc sup· 
ported by a .strong cast. Senior Bill 
McGuiness has playl'd well despite a 
hack injury, while junior Bob Horak 
ha.~ been a very pleasant surprise. 
Sophomore Stoney Ferlmann and · freshman Dave Pangraze 1111 out the squad strongly. Ncvcrthdcss, when one takc1> a 
dose look. it b not ditlicuh to oh· 
,serve the importance of Tim Sac­heck and Tom McCarthy to Notrl' Dame golf. They will he missed after graduation. 
A Boston Experience June 6 -July 5, 1981 .l'','·
I ICollege age men thinking of priesthood and religious life are invited to live together for 3 weeks and share community, prayer, & ministry in Boston .. Deadline for applying: May 15 • For more information : Fr. Frank Cafarelli, 
7113, 1456 or Fr. Bob Wiseman, 
10 1 Marta Dr. Newark DE 1971 1 
Jesuit Volunteer Corps Are you: 21 or older? Do you: Dream of promoting social justice Want to help the poor & oppressed? long for a simple lifestyle? Then: J.V.C. might challenge you to a 1-yr. commitment that could enrich your life! H interested , come to' V.S.O., 1.5 LaFortUne between 1 -5 today to interview 


Student Union 


REFRIGERATOR DROP-OFF 

FRIDAY, MAY lst 11:30 am-7:30 pm Back door of Stepan Oenter 

.:.... friges must be cleaned and defrosted (else $5.00 fee) -Loss of deposit for unreturned refrigerators 
-:* SMC ~ liD SIJlliOR NIGHT OUT! 
An Irish soccer player follou•s the flight ofthe ball en mutt: to a 
collision with his head as the team u•orks out. (Photo bl' John Macor) .. 
Pitt Luggage Truck 
Loading Saturday, May 9th Stepan 10:30 -11:30 Bookstore 12:30 · 1:30 Lemans (SMC) 4:00 -5:00 
Elections for next year's officers will also take place at all three pick-ups. 
FINANCIAL AID Full scholarships available to 
medical & osteopathic students. Tuition Supplies Academic Fees $485 per month Text Books 
For information call Capt. Sam Redding or MSgt. Bob Reese Air Force Health Professional Procurement Office 
317-269-6164 
CALL COLLECT. 
Air Force-A Gr at Way of life.... 


Jt 
* 
*FOR LADIES ONLY! * 
* Direct from Hawaii and Las Vegas
* in tf-telr grand homecoming ta Michlana ... 



~FA~T 
iF/tEDDY
.. 
+
: &The Playboys·! 
If-"a class act af singing, comedy*+ and dance for the ladles" 
: SINIOR NIGHTS: :Thursday May 7 and! thursday May 14 
!fardner's Saloon • Downtown South Bend 
.,. 
Limited advance tickets on sale now at River City Records 50970 u.s. 31 North Admission $8.00 Call 277-4242 for further information 
The hottest male go-go 
.. 
* 
* 
* 
..* 
.. 
*· 
*
*
* 
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
* 
featured on: : 
• Phil Donahue * e ABC 20/20 * 
• 
Today Show : 

• 
Time Magazine * 

• 
Playboy Magazine 



show In the natlonl *********************** 


,_________________ _ Wednesday, April29, 1981 -page 14 
Backhus enjoys security 




o-aseRueR 
f GAa:OOR!tR 
t GGB»NN~GR 

* PDMiLieille6 fJM doily 3blip& 
"'~~ 
( q you Me geed .. * Paid fJ86ilimt* CmcWtl 9eb Kfe9wfk 
wifk 3~ D6 yourt W01Ik 
._~~------~~--~~----~--~~--~~~-­
., 
Ifyou have a $10,000 job waiting for you, you could have an American Express® Card right now. 
Trade the card you've been using every day for the Card you'll be using the rest ofyoudife. 
You're about to leave school and enter a whole new world. You've got great expectations. So does American Express. For you. 
That's why American Express has created a special plan that reduces the usual application requirements-so you can get the Card before you finish school. 
All you need to apply is a $10,000 job or the promise ofone. You'll use the Card the wealthy and the well-
By MARK HANNUKSELA 
Sports Writer 
, 
Maybe it's just coincidence. 
But Gerry. Faust seems to have a hang-up about picking assistant coaches whose playing careers ended because ofinjuries. 
joe Yonto and George Kelly, a pair ofholdovers from Dan Devine'sstaff, both played briefly at Notre Dame before injuries forced them into the coaching ranks. 
Offensive line coach Jim Higgins played six seasonsofpro ball before some inconsiderate oaf stepped on his head in a game. 
And Tom Backhus, who will help out with the offensive line chores, had his playing career come to an end when he tore ligaments in his foot in the third game of his senior season at Ohio State. 
There is a difference between Backhus and the other three, however. He didn't go straight into coaching. He didn't even stay in the country. 
"I went to work for Kroeger right after my senior year," says Backhus. I was working in marketing and dairy merchandising, but I didn't really like my job. Since I still needed one 
traveled use for business lunches, buying clothes for work, paying for vacations -for all sorts of after-school activities. 
One of the surest ways to establish yourself is to start out as if you were already established. And just having the Card gives you the chance to establish a solid credit rating. 
So trade up now. Just fill out the Special Student Application you'll find in this paper. (If somebody beat you to it, call this toll-free number: 800-528-8000.) And set yourself up for next year before you finish this one. 
TheAmerican Express®Card. Don't leave school without it. 
more quarter to graduate, I went back to Ohio State in the fall, and Woody Hayes signed me on as a stu­dent assistant." 
Still not sure that he was doing something he really wanted to do, Backhus took his 1970 marketing degree and went to Europe, where he lived for eight months. 
He returned to the United States, and to Ohio State, in 1971, and 
Spring Football'81 
served a year as a graduate assistant to Hayes. 
As fate would have it, Earl Bruce, who was also an-assistant to Woody, accepted the head coaching job at the University ofTampa at the end of that season, and offered Backhus a position as offensive line coach there. 
It's been coaching jobs ever since for the 32-year-old Cincinnati native. 
"I thought coaching would be a pretty good opportunity," says Back­hus, "and I was single and mobile at the time, so I followed Earl to Tampa, and then to Iowa State ( 1973, 74, 75 )." 
In 1976, Backhus took over as the offensive line coach at the Univer­sity of Wisconsin, and in 1978, he moved to the Air Force Academy, where he served in the same capacity. 
Last year, he served as the of­fensive co-ordinator under Ken Hat­field at the Academy, in addition to working with the offensive line. 
As a player, Backhus had some outstanding credentials. He was a three time letterman in both football and wrestling in his career at Moel­ler High School, where he was Gerry Faust's first prep All-American back in 1965. 
The former all-Big 10 guard also earned three monograms at Ohio State, where he played on the Buckeyes' 1968 national champion­ship team, and on the 1969 team that finished in a first place tie in the Big 10 race. 
Despite his earlier frustrations in the working world, Backhus has ap­parently found a home for himself on the sidelines, at least for the time being. 
''I'm not sure what I'm going to be doing when I'm 50 or 55, nor do I want to set any kind of schedule for myself," says Backhus, who lives in South Bend with his wife and three daughters. "I enjoy coaching, but I'm not working up any kind of lad­der that leads to being a head coach. 
"I came here because I think that this i s the most significant college coaching job in the country," he says. "We are in a position to win a national championship, but we don't have to cut corners to do it. We can recruit quality people without cheating or lowering our standards to get them. 
"I have seen more respect here than I have at any other school I've been at. The students have respect for the athletes, the faculty has respect for the students -no one is looked down upon, no matter what they do. 
"I've been a~ schools that were just too big .to be able to treat every one with concern, to provide leader­ship and guidance. Here, there is an administrative concern which makes that possible. There is always somebody available to the student who can help out when a kid needs help. Whether it's Tom Backhus or Gerry Faust, or Mike DeCicco or Fr. joyce, there is always someone there." 
Backhus is fortunate to have come to Notre Dame in a year in which all but one of the starting offensive linemen are returning, saving him the trouble of having to rebuild the unit in his maiden season. 

He is also fortunate to be coming to Notre Dame in a year which many . feel could end with the Irish on top 
ofthe final wire service polls. 
He and his fellow coaches will be preparing for a rather brutal schedule in the fall, but maybe that was in the cards. Maybe it was all in the cards, the hiring by a firm for a job he really didn't enjoy doing, the acceptance of a job that would become his livelihood, the hiring by a coach who has shown a prefer­renee for injured players. 
Maybe. Or maybe it was just coincidence. 
SPRING PRACTICE 




r~~~i:n~~ ..J,, 

TRYING OUT FOR THE 
IRISH GUARD 
WED· APRIL 29, 19814PM on Band practice field {between Stadium & Green Field) ***You must be 6'2" or taller•u 
Be there or call Mark at 2833. 

t ' 

• 




~~()1"tscfl:=r=t=·=e~_=S========*=====================w=ed=n=e=sd=~='=Ap=r=il=29='=t9=B=t===pa=g=e~I5 
by The Oh.rert•t•r and The AJJua/J!(·d Pru.r 

West Carolina, 19. New England, Broan Holloway (OT) Los Angeles 14 3 .824 Stanford, 20. Washington (from Los Angeles). Atlanta 9 7 .563 4.5 
Mark May (OT) Potlsburgh, 21. Oakland (from
Football and hockey ticket applications and in­
Houston). Ted Watts (DB) Texas Tech, 22.
Cincinnati 8 7 .583 5 
Cleveland, Hanlord Doxon (DB) Southern Mossis­
formation were mailed out Monday. The sale and distribution oftick­
San Francisco 7 12 .389 8 
soppi, 24. San Diego, James Brooks (RB) Auburn.
cts is being handled somewhat differently than in past years, but the 
Major League Baseball Standings San Diego 6 11 .353 8 
25. Atlanta, Bobby Butler (DB) Florida St., 26. Dal­
forms currently in campus mail arc quite sclf-explanitory. The 
American League Houston 4 12 .250 9.5 las, Howard Richards (OT) Missouro, 27. Philadel­
East (does not include last night's games) phoa. Leonard Motchell (DE) Houston, 28. Buffalo w L Pet. GB Today's Games (from Oakland), Booker Moore (RB) Penn St 
deadline for returning the 1981 football ticket application isJune 20. 
Tht· due date for the 1981-82 hockey ticket application in August 1 "i. 
Cleveland 7 4 .636 St Louis at Chicago (2), 1 :35 p.m. 
Any student wishing to return their application to the ticket office 
Milwaukee 8 5 .615 Montreal at Philadelphia, 6:35p.m. 
Second Round before they leave for the summer is encouraged to do so. Ifany stu­
New York 9 6 .600 Houston at Atlanta. 6:35p.m. I. New Orleans. Russell Gary (DB) Nebraska, 2 Boston 7 6 538. I San Diego at Cincinnati, 6:35p.m N.Y. Jets, Maroon Barber (RB) Monnesota. 3 Detroit 7 9 .438 2.5 Pittsburgh at New York, 7:05p.m. Seattle. Davod Hughes (RB) Boose St . 4. N.Y. 
dent docs not receive an application this week, they MUST contact 
Steve Orsini at tht· ticket office ( 73"i4) before they leave for the sum­
Baltimore 5 7 San Francisco at Los Angeles, 9:35p.m. Gtente, Dave Young (TE) Purdue, 5. St. Louos, Neol
.417 2.5 
Lomax (QB) Portland St. 6 Tampa Bay. James
mer. -The Obsen'f!T 
Toronto 5 11 .313 4.5 
Wolder (RB) Mossourl, 7 Green Bay. Gary Lewos
West 
(TE) Texas-Arlongton, 8 San Francosco (fromOakland I 7 2 .895 
Washongton), John Harty (OT) Iowa. 9 Conconnalt
FOOTBALL
The ND-SMC Right-to-Life groupis holding a 
Chicago 10 4 .714 4.5 Chros Collinsworth (WR) Floroda, t 0. Chocago 
'california 9 9 .500 7.5 (from San Francosco). Moke Songletary (LB) Texas 7 7 .500 7.5 
jogathon on Sunday May 3rd between 1:30 and "i p.m. on Cartier Field 
Baylor, tt. Monnesota (from Ballomora). Mardye
behind tht.· ACC. Sponsor forms can be picked up at the Tom Dooley 
McDole (WR) Mossissoppo St . 12 San Francosco
Seattle 5 12 .294 11 NFL Draft
Room in LaFonune, 110 Uoly Cross Hall, 21 "i Rrcen-Phillips, or 332 
(from Chocago), Eric Wroght (DB) Mossouro. 13
Kansas City 3 9 .250 10.5 The following IS a complete rundown of the first 
Kansas Coty, Joe Delaney (RB) Northwestern
Holy Cross ll.tll ( SMC ). -The Observer. 
four rounds of the draft conducted yesterday m
Mmnesota 4 12 .250 11.5 
Louosoana, 14 Denver, Clay Brown (TE) BroghamNew York. Notre Dame players and players for
(does not include last night's games) Young, 15 Los Angeles (from Moamo). Jom Coltons
Notre Dame's 1980 opponents are in bold. 
(LB) Syracuse. t6. Pottsburgh. Anthony Washong· 
The ND/ SMC Sailing Club is holding its last 
Today's Games ton (DB) Fresno St., 17. Monnesola, Robon
FlriiiRilund

meeting of the year today at 6:30 p.m. at the boathouse on St. Joseph's 
Sendleon (LB) Texas, 18. Detroot, Curios Green
New York at Detroit, 12:30 p.m. 1. New Orleans, George Rogers (RB) South 
(DE) Alabama St.. 19 New England, Anthony Col·
l.ake. All membt·rs are strongly urgt.·d to attend. Also, the race team 
Seattle at Minnesota, I :15 p.m. Carolina, 2. N.Y. Giants, Lawrence Taylor (LB) Ions (RB) East Carolina, 20. Oakland (fom Hous·California at Oakland, 3:30p.m. North Carolina, 3. N.Y. Jets. Freeman McNeil (RB) 
finished scnmd overall at the Area A's in Michigan over Easter Break, 
ton) Howie Long (OTI Vollanova. 21 Buffalo tfrom Toronto at Milwaukee, 6:00p.m. 
UCLA, 4. Seattle, Kenny Easley (DB) UCLA, 5. St. 
Cleveland), Chris W.lloams (DB) Louosoana Sl . 22
which qualifies it to race in the Midwest Collegiate Championship 
Louts, E.J. Junior (LB) Alebame, 6. Green Bay,
Chicago at Baltimore, 6:30p.m. Buffalo, Byron Fra'lkhn (WR) Auburn. 23 New Or· 
Roch Campbell (OB) California, 7. Tampa Bay.
Rt.·gatta this spring. -The Obsen1er 
Kansas City at Cleveland, 6:35p.m. leans (from San Ooego), Rocky Jackson (LB) Potts· 
Hugh Green (LB) Pittsburgh. I. Sen Francisco,
Boston at Texas. 7:35 burgh, 24. Monnesota tfrom Los Angeles lhru
Ronnie lott (DB) Southern Cef, 9. Loa AngelesNational League 
Washongton and Ballo more). Jarvos Redwone (RB) 
(from W•hlngtcln), Mel Owens (LB) Michigan,
Women soccer players arc urged to attend an or­
Nebraska, 25. Dallas. Doug Donley (WR) Ohoo St .
East 10. Cincinnati, David Verser (WR) Kansas, 11. 
26. Atlanta, Lyman White (LB) Louisoana St, 27
ganizational meeting to make plans for the formulation o a soccer club 
W L Pet. GB Chicago, Kleth Yen Horne (OT) Southern Cal, 12. 
Pholadelphoa. Dean Moratdo (OG) Utah. 28 MoamoBaltimore, Randy McMillan (RB) Pittsburgh, 13.
for next year. Varsity soccer coach Rich Hunter, and Astrid Hotvedt, 
St. Louis 9 2 .818 0.5 
(from Oakland thru Los Angeles), Andra Frankton Miami, David Overstreet (RB) Oklahoma. 1~.
Montreal 11 3 .786 (RB) Nebraska
co-ordinator of women's athletics, will speak. The meeting will be 
Kansas City, Willie Scott (TE) South Carolina, 15. 
Philadelphia I I 5 .688 I
held Monday, May 4, at 6:30p.m. in the LaFonunc Uttlc Theater. Call 
Dennis Smith (DB) Southern Cel, 16. Detroit.
Pittsburgh 4 6 .400 5 
Mark Nichols (WR) San Jose St.. 17. Pittsburgh,
Beth ( 7976 ), Tracy (8020), or Ellen ( 69S7) with any questions. 
New York 4 7 .364 5.5 Keith Gary (DE) Oklahoma. 18. Baltimore (from See NFL, page i 2
The Obsen'f!T 
Chicago I 13 .071 10, Minnesota), Donnell Thompson (DT) North 
-----------------·------·---··---­
' 
AP • lt~'l•'"'' HI._, r1 .l'>f f•t' ll·t t·l'l.f•·! h .. 4 45 p ,, 1\'\10 :1J~S t'r ,, 't1 PH• 
·~!=.;a• .r> .."t', '' ~~-,. ,, ; .•. ,.,., Tht~ Observer :llhtt' ,\-•11 ·h....,topr ............ ·~~·h 
.\1nnn,•• ltliO<~•Jfl F• t,.n, .'>100 .1 r· ·o 4 45 p ,,.. •\II ,·J,t~h•f•t•(b ''l>~!ool bf' 
llfi•·p,tl'! ••o'l\f•< 111 l•t:l<iOI• !•I ltHUII(J'l '!\P JTI.td




Classifieds 
~ 
LOST: PAIR OF GLASSES IN BROWN Need 2 tickets to Graduation. Call Bill One of the former members of the Car­THERE'S BEEN A FLUKE II! Ten molloon
[ ·-NOTICES1 CASE IN 02 SATURDAY NIGHT. CALL 1535 BLUZE BROTHERS 
penters band used to live down the gorls from ND-SMC turned on the or votes 
ANNE, x6932. Washington Hall
street from me. Therefore, you should too late for the REAL UMOC--Mr Dave PURDUE STUDENT NEEDS TO SUB· Friday 9:30p.m. 
----------~_j 
sell me your graduation tickets. If this Tolley of 021 Morrossey Hall. Tolley--theUSED & OUT·OF PRINT BOOKS LOST: Gold dogotal watch around LEASE AN APARTMENT FOR SUM· doesn't make sense call Mike at 232· TRUE UMOC--because ugly isn't onlybought. sold, searched ERASMUS Noeuwland or Math Bldg. last Friday. MER. SEND OFFERS TO 1059 WILEY, 0921. 
appearance, it's a state of mmdlBOOKS lues-Sunday. 12·6 1027 E. And you thought the only blues were
Call Greg at 8314 if found. Reward is W. LAFAYETTE, IND. 47906 OR CALL BIGBUCKSifl 317-493-9238. CLOSER TO MISHA·
Wayne (one block south of Eddy­those found m the classtcal records WAKA PREFERRED W1th France m your pants. you'll be in
Jefferson Intersection). I dominated Joe Kleone ·s high school department of your local public 
basketbal team.lfyou don't believe me, library... Friday night 9:30 THE BLUZE A HOW TO BUY OR SELL THE BUSt­or 1f you do, and have any graduation BROTHERS play Washington Hall. 
Lost: Yellow reverstble ram coat at Irish pretty good shape. LT, MM, and CC. I 
Country Monday before Easter break. I Do YOU need a roommate? boarder? wonder if they have Ugly Duckling
NESS OPPORTUNITY" WORKSHOP tickets call Kent at 232-0921.
have yours and some stuff that was in housesitter? I will be staying in South RENT A CAR? I'll moss you all next year May 2nd. Notre Dame Center for the pocket. Call Bill at 1238. Thanks. Bend for the summer, and I need li•ing THE BLUZE BROTHERS while you fear up Europe. (fuSI remem· 
Contonulng Educ. For reservation call Washington Ha119:30 Friday noght 
space. Please cal Alex at 3255. REWARD: LOVING AUNT WILL PAY ber the golden rule LT--3 roomates on a 233-7200 If you picked up my blue notebook by BIG BUCKS TO SEE GODCHILD $1 Benefits Andy Sowder Scholar-noght puts you on the ranks ot MMI) I mistake at the Bookstore, PLEASE NEED RIDER TO LOS ANGELES. GRADUATE. NEED 1 TICKET. CALL ship Fund promise I'll be good next year--of not I'll 
INSTANT CASH PAID FOR CLASS "We're on a mission from God"
return it. I have a final coming up. and LEAVING MAY 12. SPLIT COSTS. CAR DANNY3636. be good AT itll You guys are all the RINGS $20-$85 OR MORE WE MAKE you have all my notes. Call Rob at 8767, GETS 32 MPG. GOOD STEREO. CALL greatest! LYONS HALL REIGNS!! 
HOUSE CALLS 255-2402 no questions asked JIM 283-1148. Want to run? Enter the Roght-to-Life Thanks for everythong. Love. the mid· 
TICKET REBATE: Make your best deal Jog-a-thanI western quitter (kond of toke So-Cal, eh TYPING--Only S65 a page Call Dan, woth me (and I am very desperate) then Sun May3RD
End of Year Models going quickly. Get LP?) 
get a $5.00 rebate direct trom Dad !
272-5549 [ ----·--..·---Outdoor Track. ACC. 
an Off Campus Roommate; get a Please, please sell me your grad. tick­
Sponsor Forms in LaFortune. PROFESSIONAL TYPING. Term ets. John 233-6573 Busboys stoll needed to help at ACC rebate. Comes with all standard equip­
-FOR RENT____j ment and many extra features. Low
papers, lheses, etc. Tape transcnpt1on. PITTSBURGH CLUB LUGGAGE dinner this Saturday noght. $3.50 per
mileage, hardly any gas. Call Mike
Lal year's same low pnces. All work TRUCK-Loading will be SATURDAY, hour, no expenence necessary. Call
1795. NEED MANY TIX TO GRADUATION
guaranteed aardvark automatoc solu· MAY 9TH. STEPAN, 10:30 • 11:30 Tim attt69 tonote 5-6:30
AVAILABLE SUMMER AND NEXT WILL PAY. CALLJIMAT3647 Ilona 2119-6753 BOOKSTORE 12:30-1 :30 
SCHOOL YEAR 5 BEDROOM HOUSE, Rode needed to Wash. DC. Can leave 
1 AND 3 BEDROOM APARTMENTS anytime alter 1:00pm on Sat.. May 10 or LEMANS (SMC) 4:00 • 5:00 
WILL DO TYPING CALL 287-5162. DESPERATELY need 3 or 4 GRAD (Elections will also take place at all HeyWALOSI TICKETS, Please call277-8757. three stops for next year's oHicers.) Want a little o .. ? (we woll fond out!) Bog prohtal Your own wholesale buso­
234·2626 anytime on Sun.. May II. Callll53. 
House For Rent 919 So. Bend Ave. 5 Desparately need a ride to Wash. D.C .. 
neu. 2,000 fast·oelling items. Free 707 SPANKATORIUM ·-BEWARE THE GLEET .
bedrooms, 2 baths Call Tom McGann Can leave after 10 am Sat. Call Mike 
I'll pay$$$ for graduation tix. PLEASE, 277-3461 or 272-9299. 1474.
success detaolsl Horizons, Box 8020-Z, MUDPITS ARE STILL THERE. YOU'RE AN OVER THE HILL BB JOCK 
MY FAMILY IS COUNTING ON ME T0
Unoversal Coty, Calif. 91608 A NEW WORD Hahl GET A NEW COME THROUGH. Call Tony at 4613. 
Heighdy-Ho... SPORT. TRY FLAGPOLE SITTING. 
House lor SUMMER -LOW RENT OR 
Thanks.
DO A FRIEND A FAVOR VIGILANTES
WORK FOR RENT CALL 277-3461 OR 
GIVe him or her a copy of your favorite ROOMAVAILABLEFORGRADUATION
272·9299 
cassette Now through the end of May -·---·-·-·-·;----·--] 
AT THE HOLIDAY INN AT 31..FRI .. SAT DON, 
you can purchase your forst copy at half & SUN. MY PARENTS DON'T WANT TO I have never called you 1ncons1derate
STAYING IN SOUTH BEND THIS SUM­
FOR SALE 
proce. For onstance a C-63 monute tape 1 LOSE THE DEPOSIT. CALL ANNE at and never w1ll. You are too much! The
MER? RENT OUR CAMPUSVIEW 
I -... ~---~---... •··-._-...-·~--~·­
11 regularly $2.98 woth free copying. 1669. flowers were beautiful and so are you
APARTMENT. 2 BEDROOMS, 2 
Now only $1 45 Otter good only at Love, Marta
BATHROOMS, FULLY FURNISHEb. 
STUDENTS I If
Hammes Noire Dame Bookstore for sale: snow tires in excellent condi~ Need Riders to Houston! After gradua­
CHEAPIll CALL CATHY 4-1-4380 AF­
IF YOU LIVE ON THE NORTHSIDE TER6 PM 
loon. call277·8839 after 7 pm. tion. Dave 3402 
CHICAGO AREA, CALL US NOW! WE NO MEN NEEDED-WANTED TO HELPWILL THE STUDENTS WHO TOOK MY 
WANT BRIGHT. AGGRESSIVE STU­SMC FROSH MOVE INTO DORMS ON summer sublet--2br townhouse woth DENTS TO SEll RADIO ADS OVER AUGUST 22 SIGN UP IN STUDENT AC· 
TWO LEPRECHAUNS FROM MY RIP/ME OFF! MUST SELL 5 CASES CRYSTAL ROCKS FRONT PORCH OVER THE WEEKEND POOL CHLORINE YOU CALL PRICE CRYSTAL ROCKS 
washer & dryer. Great apt. rent nego. THE PHONE, THIS SUMMER, TIVITIES OFFICE ··t66 LE MANS OR
FOR A PARTY, PLEASE RETURN 277-8561 CRYSTAL ROCKS 
277-8t58. 
NATIONWIDE. SUPER PAY POTEN­CALL 41·4319 BY MAY 7 
THEM NO QUESTIONS ASKED IF At FAT WALLEY'SIII 
TIAL! IF YOU QUALIFY, WE'LL
NECESSARY. CALL 234-7332 FOR SALE YASHICA TLX 35MM W,ITH Saturday May 2 
Near NO. Furn. Apt. Utils. May t5. Sum­GUARANTEE YOU POSITION AND BLUE MANTLE APPUCATIONS STU 
VIVATAR 70-210 ZOOM, 28MM WIDE Be there aloha
mer. Fall Small house turn. May 28, PAYI CALL TIM -FREE'. 9:00-5:00. DENT ACTIVITIES OFFICE SMC 
Do YOU need a roommate? boarder? ANGLE FLASHER, FILTENT, CASE
Summer. Fall 272·6t74. MON. THRU FRI. CALL NOW! 1·800­
houseoltter? I woll be staying on South CALL MAJOR BURNS 7274 ·------SELL SOMETHING----·-­
621 ·6426. don't letthe lollle setbacks ollote keep
Bend for I he summer, and I need hvong ·------SE LL SOMETHING------­
House ror rent summer and or next you from hvmg to the fullest to rachel 
spa~e Please call Alex at3255 For Sale-1968 Ford Custom 500 Good AT THE STEPAN FURNITURE 
school year. Furn , gd. end., close to IF OFF-CAMPUS HOUSING IS COS­from a fuend 
campus, rent negotoable. Call287·536t TING YOU ABOUT $t 00 A MONTH AND 
con dolton. Call SMC 4526 AUCTION THURSDAY 6:00-? INTERNSHIPS are avaolable on Cromona! DROP OFF PLACES AND TIMES 
alterS p m. YOU 'ARE NOT GETTING THE BEST, dollo
Justice and Urban Studtes These inter­SUPER BACKPACK FR. JO 7118 POSTED AROUND CAMPUS 
CALL 291 • 1405 
nships are for 2 semesters. For more m­Summer Sublet Mark Hopskond·Sorry about donner lasttormatoon, contact Prof Vasolo at t357 FOR SALE Couch, Easy Chaor, Skos RedJac speaks. 
2 bedroom townhouse mcludmg was­Student Player Fall dorector search! Weds -I had a bookstore game and I
or287 7996 (with bindongs), Toaster-Broiler, End Rebels beware! All of you woll soon JOon
her and dryer, completely furnoshed Sign-up to be one atStudent Unoon by guess 11ust m1ssedyou I m really sorry! 
Rent negotoable Call277-8158 Tables. Calll943 Alton good condtoon Derban The planetary stabilozer woll
May 1 Your Walsh Mystery Date 
Come to the AnnuaiAnT!ll!tal Donner• soon arrove. The Em pore Forever II 
8 30 p. m Thurs at Hans Haus Res· AVAILABLE SUMMER HOUSE -3 HEYBO.
taurant Tockoi.S avaolable on 142 Farley AM Br
BEDROOMS, 2 PORCHES, BIG YARD 1 YOU SHOULD HAVE WON THE UMOCHurry, don·l let your screen of con­
BLK FROM CAMPUS ON EDDY Sogn-up lor Fall Student Player dorector WELL. AT LEAST YOU SHOULD HAVE 
POSSIBLE NUCLEAR ATTACK ON genoahty and morth degenerate ter·
CHEAP 7819 OR 232-4539 at Student Umon by May 1 GOT I VOTE'II CONGRATS ON
PRESIDENT REAGAN FOR THE COM rnmally mto the true ammos1ty and BOOKSTORE VICTORY MENCEMENT EXERCISES!' susp1cton you seem to thrtve on RONESLIBERALS OF NO UNITEII Interested? Extremely Observant 
Call Ken Fosher at 19581 MUST HAVE 6, (Yes that was SIX).
[-W~_~TE-~--~:J 
ATTENTION RICH ALUMNI OURGRADUATION TIX !1!1!1 WILL PAY ANY The Student• Concerned about POOR CIRCULATION MANAGER CAN· 
NEED RIDE to Moamo·Ft· Lauderdale REASONABLE PRICE I CALL ANNE at Commencment woll hold a rally today 
NOT AFFORD AN UMBRELLA. AS 
AFTER GRADUATION for t or 2 6872..If I'm not on try agaon. ot woll be at4 pm on tront of the South Donong Hall 
ANYONE WHO SAW HIM RUN FROM people Call John 'Ski Mask Hoggons worth your wh1le. to protest the appearance ol Presodent 
HAYES-HEALY TO OUR HALLOWED at 8553 or 17t5 and leave a message 
Reagan at COJ11mencement Come. tf OFFICES COULD ·SEE DON T LEI you are concerned about Prestdent

SENIORS: DO YOU KNOW WHY YOU THIS POOR. UNFORTUNATE YOUNG 
WANTED A VOLKSWAGON ('72 76). Reagan's presence at our graduatiOn
WERE BORN A HUMAN BEING AND LAD SUFFER NEEDLESSLY GIVE.
LOSl ONE GOLD WATCH BETWEEN MUST BE IN GOOD RUNNING CONDI· NOT A CHAIR? SEE A THOUSAND GIVE. GIVE, UNTIL YOUR CON·WALSH AND HAYES HEALEY BUORE Glenda,
TION CONVERTIBLE IS PREFERRED CLOWNS" THURSDAY OF SENIOR SCIENCE IS EASED 
tASTfR BREAK IF FOUND. PLEASE CALL CATH 4·1·4380 AFTER 6 PM WEEK Sorry about last weekend. but I quess 
CALL JANE 804t, you were wrong Apparently I'm not
I need 3 (that's three) gradualmn tick­
Beth & LIZ. HI IMMEDIATE OCCUPANCY' ets (Yes. folks. ot's startong already ) If 
t'larmless when I'm drunk but then. 

LOST Loght blue dark blue ram stocker A warnong to all motorosls the roads netther are you 
at Senoor Bar on Wadnesday noght Has between South Bend and Santa Cruz. 
CAMPUSVIEW APARTMENT you can help me, call Scoop at 177? DONKEY BASKETBALL 
AVAILABLE FOR RENT IN MAY 2 FRIDAY MAY t <:ar key• on poc~et Plei\"" ~all Shetta at BEDROOMS, 2 BATHS, FULLY·~UR Calolornoa woll be hazard-lolled and pas· Love Jerry 
Woll pay for gradllaloon lockets Please 
800 4 1 4421 NISHED CHEAP !I! CALL GAY 4·1·444t contact Lorne ASAP!I277-8348 or 283-sobly ompassabte begonnong May t8, STEPAN CENTER AFTER 11 PM 7097 1981 Moose Comrol and Mr Ver Maggoe-LOST One EliLL BOLANGER·~ of Berkn:toes w1ll be ventunng west to Brunch Sunday? Your arttst roommate 
DONKEY BASKETBAll roghl settle HELP' 3 LITTLE BROS AND SISTERS mvtted too Gtmmee a call FRIDAY MAY t 8 00
tound, please do NOT return' (Just get All Ill for a rode mellow out and expenence ··sprouts 
tong even Bolli) · and ·tubs man" Anyone londing rem· Bus Ad MaJor
ANYWHERE on Floroda AFTER WANT fO SEE BIG SIS GRADUATE. STEPAN CENTER 
GRADUATION The closer to Moamtthe GOT 1\NY EXTRA TIX? CALL. DENISE nants of our car at the roadside are CAVANAUGH· FARLEY vs 
' ZAHM BP AT x8803
Found large whole dog To clatm call betler. Call John Prom Noght" Hoggons asked to return them Moke-I toke you· LOTS!" Love. Prob· 
See your fnends tall victim to the asses 1983 or 1967 at 8553 or 1715 and leave a message 
by 




SRorts 
-
Scully in 4th 
Rogers moves from S.C. 
NFL clubs 'ignore' 
Irish 
The National Football League came within three picks ofdoing something to Notre Dame yester­day that hadn't. happened since 
1977. Irish football players were almost shutout of the first day of the NFL's college draft held in New York. 
Center John Scully was the sole member of Dan Devine's I9HO roster selected yesterday. The 6-5, 255-pound native of Huntington, N.Y., was selected by the NFC's Atlanta Falcons as the 26th pick in the fourth round, the I09th pick overalL Scully was the fourth center selected in the draft. 
The teams made it through four rounds before calling it a day. 
In recent years, Notre Dame has seen several players go in the first few rounds, including Vagas Ferguson, Dave Waymer, Tim Foley and Rusty Lisch last year; Dave Huffman, Bob Golic andJoe Montana in 1979; and Luther Bradley, Ross Browner and Ken 
See SCULLY, page 12 
with 1,781 yards. He averaged six yards per carry and scored 14 touch­downs, finishing his collegiate career with 22 consecutive I 00­yard games. Rogers said his biggest adjustment in the pros would be a need "to be more physical." 
NEW YORK(AP)-The New Or­leans Saints opened the 46th Nation­al Football League draft yesterday by sdec:ting running back George Rogers of South Carolina, the 19HO Heisman Trophy winner and fourth leading rusher in college history. 
Rogers made an immediate ap­pearance next to NFL Commissioner Pete Rozelle at the podium after the announcement, hoh.lng aloft a Saints helmet. He dismissed suggestions that he would be the immediate savior for the 1-15 Saints. "I don't think I'm an Earl Campbell," he said. 
Rogers said he would like to build the Saints into a winner, just like Campbell, once a Heisman Trophy winner at the University of Texas, has done for the Houston Oilers. "But I can't turn it around by 

George Rogers 
myself," Rogers said. "I'm not a one­man team; 1 play with a team. "As an individual, I can't do it. It has to be the team that will do it." The 6-2, 220-pound power run­ner led the nation in rushing in 1980 
I'm too excited really to say any-
In tennis 


SMCchallengesND 
thing," said Rogers. "I'm certainly 
going to give my best every time on 
the field." 
Bum Phillips, new head coach of 
the Saints, is a firm believer in a 
bruising running attack. When Phil­
lips coached at Houston, he had 
Campbell rushing some 20-25 times 
a game. 
Rogers said he might be a little 
more versatile than Campbell. "I 
want to receive the ball, rather than 
run it all the time," he said at the 
news conference. 
Asked about playing under Phil­lips, Rogers said: "I'm impressed with the way he coached Earl Campbell. Earl's one of my idols." 
Notre Dame's John Scully, a 6-5, 
255 pound center, was picked 26th 
in the fourth round by the Atlanta 
Falcons. He was one ofthree players 
from the state of Indiana chosen on 
the first day ofthe clraft. 
Dave Young, a tight end from 
Purdue, was the fourth player 
selected in the second round. The 6­
6, 240 pound Young was chosen by 
the New York Giants. 
Mark Herrmann, the nation's all­
time major college passing leader, 
and an All-American teammate of 
Young's at Purdue, was chosen by 
the Denver Broncos on the 15th 
pick ofthe fourth round. 
The Carmel, Ind. native set nine NCAA, six Big Ten, and 23 scho t ol passing records for the Boilermakers en route to being named the As­sociated Press's first-team choice at quarterback. 
Two trades livened up the proceedings yesterday. The Bal­timore Colts traded running back Joe Washington to the Washington Redskins for three choices. And Tony Reed, a 1,000 yard rusher for Kansas City three years ago, was dealt to Denver in exchange for two choices, one this year, and one next. 
By CRAIG CHVAL 
Sports Writer 
Saint Mary's tennis coach Ginger Oakman did enough lineup shuffling before yesterday's match with Notre Dame to make a manageria.l genius like Earl Weaver dizzy. but it was all in vain. Notre Dame pasted the Belles 9-0 in its final dual match of the season, reaching the 20-victory plateau for the first time ever with a 

l0-6slate. 
Oakman's headaches began in 
December when sophomore whiz 
Patsy Coash transfered. With Coash 
playing first singles and doubles 
against the Irish last fall, t~ ·Belles 
hung close, bowing 6-3 at the Angela 
Athletic Facility. 
Ann Huber, who played the sixth 
singles spot when the two schools 
met in October, was elevated to the 
number-one spot yesterday. She per­
formed admirably, taking Notre 
Dame's Cindy Schuster to three sets 
before falling. 'jc7, 7-6, 6-2. Oakman 
also dropped Jan Dvonch from the 
second singles spot to number-six, 
where she faced Notre Dame's Peg­
gy Walsh, winner of nine con­
secutive matches. Walsh bounced 
back after dropping the first set to 
make Dvonch her tenth straight vic­
tim, 4-6, 6-4, 6-2. 
Two factors combined to make 
the Belles' death a slow and painful 
one yesterday. One was the weather, 
which forced the match into the 
Athletic and Convocation Center 
and made the event a five-hour affair. 
The other was singles competition, 
'where Saint Mary's dropped four 
split-set decisions. Carmel Maenza, a 
2-6, 6-2, 6-I loser to Carol Shukis at 
number-four, and Maureen O'Brien, 
who dropped a 6-0, 4-6, 6-1 verdict _to Mary Legeay at the fifth spot, joined HuJ)er and Dvonch as three­
set losers. 
The Irish had an easier time ofit in 
doubles, where all three tandems 
won in straight sets, but once again it 
was apparant what the loss ofCoash 
• and senio~ Maureen A. O'I¥ien, who 
decided to sit the spring season out, meant to the Belles. 
Last fall, Coash and O'Brien turned back Linda Hoyer and Tina Stephan at first doubles, while Huber and Mary Soergel earned a victory at second double over Shukis and Schuster. This time around, though, Hoyer and Stephan disposed of Huber and Soergel at number-one, 6-4, 7-6, while Legeay and Pam Fischette breezed to a 6-3, 6-3 win in the second spot. Sheila Cronin and Stasia Obremskey com­pleted the Irish sweep with a 6-2,6-2 whipping ofO'Brien and Smith. 
"Several of our players had trouble maintaining their con­centration during their matches," said Irish coach Sharon Petro. "Maybe the fact that they were playing without Patsy and Maureen made us a little too relaxed. 
"I was very impressed with the way the Saint Mary's players battled back," she continued. "We always have a tough time with Saint Mary's, because in addition to their talent, a lot of the players on the two teams are good friends, and that doesn't help matters much." 
For the most part, though, Petro was pleased with her squad's pefor­mance yesterday. 
"We still need to play with more intensity, but you have to be happy when you can win four-of-four three-set matches. If we had main­tained our concentration a little bet­ter, we might not have found ourselves in those situations, but at 
See TENNIS, page 11 
• 

30,000 IS A CROWD -If :anyone needs cakulable proof of the 
interest in Gerry Faust's first Irish football team, just check ticket sales. 
Advance sales for Saturday's Blue-Gold football scrimmage already 
have more than doubled last year's figure. With good weather this 
weekend (the weather should be good -An Tosta.l is over), predic­
tions are for a crowd in excess of 30,000 for the 1 p.m. kickoff. 
The Blue-Gold game pits tht' White squad against the Green squad 
(sounds like something Devine would have figured out). The W T hite 
team will be composed of players who currently work with the first 
unit or who have a good chance of making the first team come next 
fall. Blair Kid and Tim Koegel, who split time with the starting unit 
during last weeks' intrasquad faceoff, will divide their time with the 
White squad. Kiel's classmate Scott Grooms, who is a close third in the 
signal-calling derby, will start for the Green team but is also expected 
to play the final quarter for the White unit. 
Other notable White teamers include tailbacks Phil Carter and Greg 
Bell, fullbacks John Sweeney and Larry Moriarty and wingbacks Tim 
Tripp and Greg Williamson. Mike Boushka and Dave Condeni will split 
the split end chores while Dean Masztak and Pete Buchanart will share 
the tight end slot. 

Among those sidelined this spring and unavailable for the annual 
scrimmage are linebacker Bob Crable and receiver Tony Hunter, both 
of whom are nursing nagging injuries from last fall, and defensive 
tackle Tim Marshall, who injured his elbow this spring. 
For those who want to bring l:ameras or notepads, the coaches and 
players will be available following the game for pictures and 
autographs. 

NBC, PROUD AS A LEPRECHAUN -Since the NCAA awarded CBS­
TV the contract to televise tht' NCAA basketball tournament for the 
next three years (at a price tag of $48 million), bidding has been hot 
and heavy for prime regular season games. And it seems that NBC 
Sports has cornered CBS Sport!i out ofquite a bit ofthe market. 
The peacock network signed a two-year contract with Notre Dame 
to televise nationally at least four Irish games per year. A spokesman 
for the network said that the Notre Dame-UCLA games will be 
televised, but the other two games have yet to be determined. 
NCAA regulations allow a S(:hool or conference to sign a contract 
with only one of the networks, so CBS will not be able to beam any 
Notre Dame games for at least the next two years. At least if Digger 
_Phelps does do color commentary for CBS, he will not have to worry 
about calling Notre Dame "we."' 

NBC has also signed contracts with the Atlantic Coast Conference 
(that should make Billy "Skip Desjardin is my favorite sportswriter" 
Packer happy) and the Big Ten, :md will broadcast the ACC tourna­
ment championships along witllt several regular season games. 
The recent NBC acquisitions have made it difficult for CBS to put 
together an appealing 14-game regular season basketball package, 
something which they promised in order to gain the rights to the 
NCAA tournament. 

SIGN ON THE DOTTED UN£ -No less then three Notre Uame 
sports have announced six top-notch recruits who have recently an­
nounced their intentions to enroll at Notre Dame. 
Track mentor Joe Piane added a long sprinter, a middle distance 
runner and a long jumper to his stable oftracksters.James Patterson, a 
native of University City, Mo., posted a season-high long jump of 23 
feet, five inches, and participates in the triple and high jumpsas well as 
sprints. 

North Babylon, N.Y., product Mitch Van Eyken specializes in long 
sprints. He won the indoor 300 title at the Easterns with a :31.5 clock­
ing and ranks among prep bests in the 300 and quarter-mile. Bill 
Theisen of West Des Moines, Iowa, brings two Iowa Class 2A prep 
cross country crowns to Notre Dame along with the outdoor half-mile 
and 4x800 relay titles. 

Larry Gallo has added a talented righthanded pitcher to his bullpen 
in Bobby "Buster" (sounds like a pitcher) Lopes of New Bedford, 
Mass. Lopes compiled a 6-1 record last year while averaging 12 
strikeouts per game with a fastball clocked at 90 miles per hour. He 
also boasts a .375 batting average. 

Finally, Mary Jo Hensler of Cincinnati, Ohio, and Josephine Mater­nowski ofSouth Bend have announced their intention to attend Notre Dame and play for Sandy Vanslager's Irish volleyball team, the first athletic grant-in-aid recipients on the team. Hensler guided l'ler Mot­her of Mere¥ High School team to a 27-2 record and the Ohio AAA .state championship in 1980, while Maternowski was an all-Northern 
Indiana Conference selection from LaSalle High School. 
CHICAGO STYLE -A brief note for those of you from Chicago ­
the White Sox are looking for a mascot (like the Phillie Phanatic) and 
are accepting applications. Being young, acrobatic, energetic, in­
ventive and a free spirit are all prequisites for the position, as well as 
owning a car. Ifinterested, inquire with Steve Schanwald at the White 
Sox office. 

I wonder what kind ofmascot the Cubs could use? Maybe an under­
taker. 


ITEMIZED -So ends Items. Have a good summer (it should be ­
Springsteen is on tour) and we'll see you next fall.
. 











