• • .WOW-page6 

TUESDAY, MARCH 24, 1981
VOL XV, NO. 112 an indt"pendent student newspaper serving notre dame and saint mary's 
Coal tniners agree too late to halt strike 
WASIIINGTON (AP) -The United Mine Workers and the soft coal in­
dustry tentatlvc:ly agreed yesterday on a contract calling for wage and 
benefit boosts of 36 percent over three years. The breakthrough likely was 
too late to avert an anticipated strike Friday, but approval by the rank and file 
could keep the walkout to a few days. 
UMW president Sam Church declared "we've got a decent contract ... I 
think our membership will accept it." He said workers probably will be off 
the job for four or five days. 
Despite the tentative settlement, the strike will proceed because the uni­
on says It does not have enough time to complete the ratification process 
before the current agreement expires at 12:01 a.m. EST friday. 
The lJMW, which has followed a strict no-contract, no-work policy, has 
struck over every contract since 1964. Ratification ordinarily requires about 
10 days. 
Church said the union won major concessions from the 130 coal com­
panies represented by the Bituminous Coal Operators Association in the 
area ofworking hours and pensions. 
A settlement seemed far from sight when bargaining collapsed last Tues­
day, triggering wildcat strikes at some mines and a prediction by Church that 
the walkout starting Friday might last even longer than the 111-day shut­
down of 1977/78. 
The two sides accused each other of failing to bargain In good faith, and 
Church charged that the Industry wanted a strike. 
At 7 a.m. yesterday, however, Church and B.R. Brown, chief BCOA 
negotiator, jointly announced an accord after a five-hour bargaining session. 
The union president said lJMW officials would prepare the contract for ElSalvador 
consideration by the union's 39-member bargaining council on today. Ifthe 
council approves, the pact will then be voted upon by the union's 160,000 
rank and file members. 
Approval by the bargaining council is by no means routine; twice during 
Marchers remember slain bishop 
the strike of three years ago, the council rejected tentative contract settle­ments, and the rank and file voted down a contract after It had been on strike for 90 days. vador Oscar Romero. The marchers Holy Cross Hall at Saint Mary's and 
By TIM PETTERS

Church said the bargaining council would likely discuss the possibility of gathered at Saint Joseph's High met the other marchers at Saint 
News Staff

extending the contract deadline to prevent a strike. But such a move would School and wound their way Joseph's High School. From there violate union tradition, and UMW sources said It was extremely unlikely the through downtown South Bend. they proceeded to the Holy Cross council would approve it. An assassin's bullet killed Archbis­Justice and Peace Center
Over 200 Notre Dame and Saint
Brown said he was pleased an agreement was reached, but declined to hop Romero during his Mass on downtown. There, Bishop William
Mary's students joined other Cat­
comment on what was In the contract. He said that "it would be inap­March 24, 1980. Archbishop McManus led a prayer service In
holics from South Bend in a march
propriate at this time." Romero, an outspoken opponent of rememberance of Archbishop
commemorating the anniversary of 
See MINERS, page4 the ruling military junta, called for Romero and four murdered
the death of Archbishop of El Sal-
an end to what he saw as oppression American missionaries. The mar­ofthe Salvadorian people. chers then proceeded to Saint Step­One month before his death, hen's Church, where the Bishop

Protesting curfew 
Archbishop Romero wrote a letter celabrated Mass. to former PresidentJimmy Carter as­Notre Dame student Michael Hag­king him to halt U.S. military aid to El gerty, one of the leaders of the Salvador and to guarantee that "the march, has travelled to El Salvador
Poles threaten generalstrike 
U.S. would not intervene directly or twice. Haggerty said that he and the indirectly.... to determine the des­other marchers feel that the Sal­tiny ofthe Salvadorian people." vadorian military causes the ex­

BYDGOSZCZ, Poland (AP) -It made no mention ofa strike and Observers here speculated that Archbishop Romero, in his last treme poverty, and that the U.S. lech Walesa, national leader of the there were conflicting reports the union would not call on its mem­words before dying, stated, "Let us government condones the repres­sion by supplying the junta arms.
Independent union Solidarity, caller. One soun:e said here were bers to stage a oationwide strike un­be united in faith and hope." Those threatened to strike every factory in "voices" calling for a strong til its leaders had a chance to meet words set the tone for the march. "There is no 'leftist' threat," Hag-Poland If the communist govern­response to the beatings, but anoth­with Rakowski again during talks The students gathered at Sacred 
See MARCHERS, page4ment declares a state of emergency er said there would be no call for a scheduled to resume on Wednes­Heart Church at Notre Dame and or Imposes a curfew, union sources general strike. day. said early today. 
Less than a block from the railway 

They said Walesa made the war­workers' club, farmers seeking an in­ning In a motion he submitted to a dependent trade union continued a 


'Toto, seeks origins
meeting here ofSolidarity's national week-old sit-in at the headquarters commission. The meeting was ofthe United Peasants Party. called to decide whether to strike · Local sources said Bydgoszcz, an over la.~t week's beating ofthree uni­industrial and river port city of 

oftornadoes
Warsaw Radio reported that
onist in the government building of 350,000 about 155 miles northwest
Walesa, opening the meeting,
this northwestern city. of Warsaw, ha.~ been quiet since last
thanked the delegtes for accepting WASHINGTON (AP)-Scientists · small enough to be carried in theThe urgent talks opened last night Thursday's incident which left three
the commission's appeal for a trying to unlock one of weather's of a truck,
and went into the early morning men hospitalized. back fa.'it pickup ex· 
suspension of strikes and other most savage secrets have developed plained the inventor, Alfred ).
hours. The union sources said Workers here and in surrounding
protest actions until a decision an instrument station called Toto -Bedard of the National Oceanic andWalesa also had proposed a suspen­cities staged a two-hour warning
could be made by the commission. 
and like Dorothy's dog, they hope, it Atmospheric Administration.
sion of the talks, but they gave no strike last Thursday over the inci­
Solidarity has placed its estimated will get run over by a tornado. Currently, cha.-;e teams follow andfurther details. dent, which has raised new tensions
10 mlllion members on strike alert. 
The idea is to ·find out exactly study severe storms. "I realized thatThousands of people milled about nationwide. But the leaders of
The meeting was called after talks what goes on inside a twister, a the chase teams can gt•t vt·ry dose to
outside the railway workers' club Solidarity have called on all their
between union leaders and Deputy problem which ha.t; plagued weather tornadoes, and if they had thenear the main train station as the uni­members to refrain to strikes or
Premier Mieczyslaw Rakowski ad­researchers for year. proper unit, they could just put it
on chiefs discussed the worst pollee strike threats pending their meeting
journed Sunday without conclusion But tornadoes rarely pass over out. So I decided to build one,"
union clash since Solidarity wa.'i In Bydgoszcz.
in Warsaw. 
stationary instruments, and when Bedard explained.
formed last summer. With Solidarity chid Lech Walesa 
The Polish Politburo on Sunday they do, they destroy them. Then, he said, the t·ha.t;e tt·ams can
Union sources said the meeting and the union's national coordinat­
accused the independent unionists Hence: Toto, the Totable Tornado drive to the area ahead of the tor-
also dealt with a demand by farmers ing commission was dissident Jacek 
of "creating a state ofanarchy" with Observatory. nado, "deploy Toto. and then leave."
for thdr own lndpendent union. Kuron, a member of the Committee 
their protests over the beatings. It At 7 feet tall and 400 pounds, it "Our current (deployment)
Oelegates Issued a communique ear­for Soci'll Self Defense which advises 
said the government "cannot and looks like a fat robot -and certainly record is 15 seconds," he said, ad­
lier saying they supported the far­the union. About 300 union mem­
will not tolerate" illegal sit-ins and far larger than its canine namesake in ding that with a tornado bearing
mers and urged that the farmers' bers including national and local problems be met more than strike threats resulting from the inci­"The Wizard of Oz."But that's still down on you "that's probably a long 
dent. See STRIKE, page4 time."
"halfway." 


~ -­
Tuesday, March 24, 1981 -page 2

News Brie/§
c=============*=================================~
by The Observer and The Associated Press 


Is justice served?
Rushing the bench and denouncing his judge and 
prosecutors, avowed racist Joseph Paul Franklin was sentenced Mon­day to the maximum penalty of two consecutive life terms for violat­ing the civil rights of two black joggers by shooting them to death. About I 0 marshals wrestled Franklin to the floor and handcuffed him after the outburst, which began with Franklin telling U.S. District Judge Bruce Jenkins, "This whole thing is a farce." He also called the two prosecutors in the case "a trained monkey" and "a faggot" and said Jenkins was "nothing but an agent of this communist govern­ment." Jenkins denied a motion for a new trial and said, "This whole tragic affair is something that needn't have happened, shouldn't have happened and must not happen again." Franklin, 30, of Mobile, Ala., still faces Utah murder charges in the case which could lead to the death penalty, and last week was charged with four additional racially motivated slayings in Oklahoma and Indiana. 
Cabrini Green residents, enthusiastic about 
Chicago Mayor Jane M. Byrne's prospective move to their crime­
ridden housing project, said yesterday they expected her to "put fear 
in the hearts" of the criminals. "What a lady. That's my mayor," said 
resident Sadie Hall when she heard Mrs. Byrne was moving in. "I think 
the mayor is going to make a difference. A big difference." What the 
mayor is doing "isgiving everybody here something to look up to. And 
that's good. That's real good," said resident Annie Olden. "Everybody 
knows it's cleanup time ifthe mayor is coming over here," said Cora 
Moore, who has lived in the vast near North Side project for 25 years. 
"Even if she doesn't move in, she'll put fear in the hearts (of the 
criminals)." Many of the project's 15,000 residents said the mayor's 
presence may help defuse gang warfare, shootings and terror at the 
70 acre project. -AP 
The job OUtlOOk for Indiana University graduates isn't bad, but master of business administration and computer science degrees are better for the pocketbook than others. Students with liberal arts majors will be paid $13,000/$15,000 to start. Those with science majors will get $14,500/$22,000. Those who hold the degrees in computer sciences will be looking at the high end of that range. And, those with master ofbusiness admnistration degrees will top out at about $24,000. IV officials say the job outlook for seniors is good although the federal hiring freeze and cutbacks in hiring have not been assessed. Wayne Wallace, placement officer for the college ofarts and sciences, says businesses and industries continue to recruit graduates although the job offers are frequently outside the Midwest. The job outlook is especially favorable for those with technological skills, such as, mathematics, geology and chemistry, Wallace said. "Opportunities are about average -not a boom, but not a disaster 
either." -AP 
A fugitive from the Oregon Correctional Institution was found nailed by one hand to a telephone pole Monday and authorities said he threatened paramedics who were sent to help him. Steven L Phillipi, 27, was found several hours after he failed to return to the institution, where he had been given a social leave pass. Police Lt. Lee Sims said investigators did not know who nailed Phillipi to the pole. He said Phillipi told them a person he had a fight with nailed him. Albany police disptcher Kathy Wyatt said officers were notified by the fire deartment shortly after 3 a.m. that a man was nailed to a pole in the downtown area in this community 60 miles south of Portland. Fire 
department paramedic Bob Omstead said when he and his partner 
arrived at the scene, Phillipi did not want to be released. "We got there 
and we found this gentleman with his right hand with his palm to the 
pole with a 16/penny nail through it," Omstead said. -AP 
Defense attorneys for convicted collaborator Marine Pfc. Robert Garwood asked for a delay Monday in his trial on charges of molesting a 7-year-old girl. The attorneys are seeking a contiuance until Garwood is finished with psychiatric treatment in Virginia. Ac­tion on the request is not expected this week because the preiding judge is out of town. Last week, defense attorneys made a number of motions in connection with the trial. Among them was a motion as­king that jurors be sequestered during jury selection and that they be prohibited from taking notes during the trial. The attorneys also asked that prosecution witnesses be sequestered and kept apart and that prosecutors be required to furnish the defense with a list ofwitnesses and information about the witnesses. Gawood was indicted by an Onslow County grand jury Feb. 23 on charges of taking indecent liberties with a child, attempted first-degree sexualoffense, attempted 
first-degree rape and first-degree sex offense. 
Fair and cool nights with sunny and mild days through Wednesday. Highs in the low 50s. Low tonight in the upper 20s. -AP 

I watched a man die earlier this month. 
He was not what I would call a good man, an ad­mirable man or even a likeable man. He was an "iceman." He did not care about his own life; he did not care about the lives ofothers. His death was, neverthe­less, tragic. 
Steven T. Judy raped and murdered Mary Chasteen by the side of a road. He then drowned her three children in a nearby river. He was convicted and sen­tenced to death after advising the jury that they could be his next victims. On March 9, he was electrocuted. 
I have no great sympathy for StevenJudy; he brutally 
murdered four people. If he had been left to rot in 
prison for the rest of his life, I would never have given 
him a second thought. But he was put to death. In order 
to deter others from committing murder, in order to 
repay him for his crimes, he was executed. As Indiana 
Governor Robert Orr said, "Justice was served." 
Is capital punishment just? Does society have the 
right to put a man to death? In the 1976 landmark case 
Gregg vs. Georgia, the United States Supreme Court 
ruled that society does indeed have that right. In es­
sence, the Court based its judgement upon the 
"standards of decency" of contemporary society. The 
majority opinion concluded that the re-establishment of the penalty in 35 states -af­ter capital punishment laws had been struck down by the Court four years previously effectively demonstrated society's ac­ceptence of capital punish­ment. As long as society approves, men can be sen­
tenced to death. 
There is little argument to society's support of the death penalty. Despite protests following the ex­ecution of murderer John Spenkelink in Florida two years ago, t-shirts picturing an electric chair with the slogan "1 Down, 133 To Go" -a reference to the 133 people remaining on Florida's Death Row -became more popular than "I Love NY." Certainly not everyone supports capital punishment, but acceptence by society at large is clear. 
The Court considered other factors in its approval of the death penalty. The Justices determined that the penalty did not represent cruel and unusual punish­ment as defined in the Constitution. While recognizing the death penalty as "unique in its severity and ir­revocability," it is also proportionate to the crime of 
murder, "an extreme sanction, suitable to the most ex­
treme ofcrimes." 
Finally, the Court accepted capital punishment as a 
real deterrent to murder. While unable to cite statistical 
evidence, the majority of the Justices felt they could 
"assume safely" that in cases ofcarefully contemplated 
murder, such as murder for hire, the death penalty may 
well serve as a deterrent. 
It is with these points I take exception to the legitimacy of the death penalty. The basis for the 



prohibiti~uel and unusual punishment~is~t~h:e:,:in~-~!::==================::::--_. 
Design Editor.................. Gregory Swiercz Design Assistants ....................... Tonia Hap Jeff Moore Layout Staff. .................................. Kim Kohl Michele Dietz Typesetter ............................... Bruce Oakley NewsEditor.............................)ohn Higgins Copy Editor..................... Dave Rickabaugh Features Layout.................... : ..... Tonia Hap Sports Copy Editors .................. Dave Irwin Skip Desjardin Typist .............................. -......... Katie Bigane Systems Control .......................... Ray lnglin ND Day Editor...................... Dan Gonzales Ad Design ............................... Woody & Co. Photographer .......................... Greg Maurer Guest Appearances ............... Short People 
Tall Person The Red-headed Vanian 

Purdue Convos ... presents 
Toshiko Akiyoshi /Lew Tabackin 
Big Band  1o.,.,.  
lO.....  
Monday, April6  8 p.m.  

Loeb Playhouse at Purdue University West Lafayette, IN 
$6&$5 

Visa & Master Charge orders call317-494-1320 ..."the band 8U8tain8 a 8park, bite and cri8pneu that few if any
a Convo Special Event othen can match., 
tegrity of human diginity. Punishment of society's criminals must be consistent with society's perception of the worth of a human being. To put a man to death pales the value ofthe human individual in the shadow of society. The purpose of the death penalty is to demonstrate how much we value a human life: what it really shows is how little we actually do. 
Capital punishment might be acceptable if it were indeed an effective deterrent. It is not. Murders are committed either in the heat ofpassion or absolute con­fidence in one's ability to kill without being caught. In the one case, the murderer is not thinking ofany conse­
quences; in the other he simply shrugs them off 
The most popular argument for capital punishment 
completely abandons society's moral respon­sibilities. Some argue that we, as taxpayers, should not be forced to support a mur­derer for the rest of his life. The purpose of the judicial system is to maintain some semblance of moral order in society. To accomplish this objective, we must pay a certain price. In the case of murder, that price is either to compromise our moral code by executing the criminal or to spend tax­payers' money keeping him 

P. ~· alive. The cost of imprison­ment is far less than the price ofhypocrisy. 
I cannot reconcile or rationalize the death penalty. It is murder by the state. A law or a judge saying it is lawful does not make it moral. Society may have an emotional need for revenge and imprisonment of murderers may be expensive for tax­payers, but society must take a moral stand. Revenge and expediency are no substitute for morality. 
Another execution has been scheduled for next month. This time convicted murderer James Brewer will die in the chair. like Judy's execution, I will be at the Indiana State Prison in Michigan City. Like last time, I will be part of the journalistic circus that gathers at these events like leeches. Like last time, I will write an article describing the scene and the events as objective­ly as I can. 
And when I go to bed that night, like last time, I will 
c . 

The Observer is always looking for new reporters. 
If you like to write, stop by our office on the third floor of LaFortune and talk to our news editors for details. Experience is not necessary. 

SMC Executive Editor .....................Mary Agnes Carey 
Editor-in-Cbief.........................................]ohn McGrath SMC News Editor .............................•..Kathy Domanico
Managing Editor......................................TornJackrnan
The Ob~en·er ,.s an independent newspaper published by the student;, ,)f :he 
Photo Editor.................................................. .John Macor
Executive News Editor ..............................Lynne Daley 
Universl[y of Notrl" Dame du Lac and Saint !\1ary' s College It does not necessarily News Editor .............................................Tim Vercellotti
reflec: :he policies vf the admini,tranon of either mstitunon. The news is reponed Business Manager ............................... -...Rich Coppola as acLUrarely and as •Jbjecrive!~-as possible. Editorials represem the optn!on of a · News Editor.......,.,....................................... .John Higgins Controller........................................................joe Mulflur majority of the Edironal Board. Commentaries, opinions, and leners are the views Senior Copy Editor ........................Mary Fran Callahan Advertising Manager......................................Mark Ellis 
of their. authors. Column space is available ro all members of rhe community, and 
Sports Editor ..............................................Beth Huffman Production Manager ..............•....Ryan Ver Berkrnoes the free exprr:-ssior. of varying opmions on campus, through Jeerers, is encouraged. 
Features Editor..........................................Rick Hermida Circulation Manager ......................•..Tom Maclennan 

----------·------------------------·------·--­The Observer -Tuesday, March 24, 1981 -page 3 
U.S. pushesJapanese to bolster defenses 

Notre Dame Security cites this vehicle for a three-second violation on the bookstore courts. (Pboto by Greg Maurer) 
Space shuttle makes safety changes 
CAPE CANAVERAL, Fla. (AP)-A special investigative board or­dered changes In safety procedures yesterday and postponed for 24 hours the test loading ofsupercold liquid fuels into the space shuttle Columbia's huge external tank. 
If Investigators make further safety changes, the shuttle's maiden launch, now scheduled no earlier than April 8, could be delayed fur­ther, officials said. 
"Right now It appears to be very shaky for April 8," said a sourl·e 
who asked not to be identified. "It looks like we're moving toward the 
end ofthe week, like the 9th or the lOth." 
The loading test, which will check an insulation patch-up job on the 
aluminum skin of the I 54/foot/tall tank, was shifted from today to 
early Wednesday, said spokesman Kris Kristofferson of the National 
Aen>nautics and Space Administration. 
The delay wlll give the special panel time to print and distribute 
written safety procedures, which it revised as a result ofa launch pad 
accident that killed one worker and critically Injured another last 
Thursday, he said. 
The NASA board waS reviewing all testing and countdown 
procedures to guard _against a repeat oflast week's fatal mishap. 
Launch pad technicians yesterday were completing repairs on the 
large chunks ofinsulation tom loose from the tank in an earlier test. 
Wednesday's "low-pressure loading" ofliquid oxygen and nitrogen 
propellants will put greater stress on the insulation than a normally 
pressurized loding. The procedure was to be repeated Friday using 
normal launch pressure. 
That second tests had been scheduled for Thursday. Launch Direc­
tor George F. Page called the fuel-loading tests "a big hurdle" to be 
oven·ome before the shuttle takes its maiden 54-hour flight. 
...-.~------------·---..·-------..-­
Buy --.--· Observer Classifieds ,=== 

TOKYO-(AP) The United States 
wants Japan to take over more of its 
own defense. But Japanese officials 
say public pressure from the Reagan 
administration could cause trouble 
for a government faced with the 
public's strong anti-military feeling. 
Defense is one ofthe major issues President Reagan said he will discuss with Japanese Prime Minister Zenko Suzuki during Suzuki's visit to Wash­ington in May. Foreign Minister Masayoshi Ito is In Washington now for talks touching on defense, but primarily .dealing with a possible curb on U.S. imports of Japanese 
cars. 
Since the Allled occupation after World War II and U.S. promulgaton ofa constitution outlawing an army, Japan has relied heavily on the United States for Its security. 
Japanese officials fear the Reagan government may begin pushing for changes in Japan's strictly limited defense policy -changes they say arc impossible at present and unlike­
ly in the near future. 
"Some continued, quiet pressure 
would be necessary and useful," said 
one Foreign Ministry official who 
asked not to be Identified. "But 
public pressure by the United States 
on Japan would exacerbate the 
Issue," he said. 
The problem, officials here say, is that the japanese people never have overcome a dislike of the military brought on by the disastrous defeat in World War II, or the "nuclear allergy" caused by the atomic bom­bings of Hiroshima and Nagasaki. 
Japan's recently resigned top sol­dier, Gen. Goro Takeda, claimed that few japanese are convinced they can or should defendJapan even from an outright attack by another country. 
Even though Japan has become increasingly worried about the Soviet Union, ddense policy is so controversial that even to suggest changes can bring pressure on defense officials to resign and start a storm ofprotest. 
In Fort Lauderdale 
Police seek identity ofJane Doe 
FORT LAUDERDALE, Fla. (AP) -
Pollee who have been seeking clues 
to the identity of a woman found 
naked and near death In a state park 
say they will ask an Illinois couple to 
determine Ifjane Doe is their long­
missing daughter. 
Doctors and investigators say it Is 
most likely the woman is Cheryl Ann Tomlczek, of Roselle, II., who dropped from sight seven years ago. 
"We've asked the Tomiczek fami­ly to make arrangements, that we wlll be notifying them within a week to come to Florida," Fort Lauderdale police Sgt. Frank Schueler said over the weekend. 
"All I can say Is we have more 
diagnostic tests for Jane this week 
and we arc checking out three dif-
Formal bids sale today 
The senior formal l'ommittee an­nounced that due to popular demand, bid sales for the formal will be reopned for one day after spring break. Despite the fact that bid sales went very well during the original sales week, numerous requests for bids have been received by the com­mittee since. The bids will be on sale Tuesday, March 24 from II to I in 
Lafortune Student Center and l.eMans Hall, following the same procedure as the original sales week. There will be no tickets sold at the door, making it the final opportunity to buy bids. The formal will be held March 2H at the Chicago Marriott. The committee recommends that seniors without dates implement a search algorithm immediately. 


ATTENTION: 
All Creative Students Concerning SCHOLASTIC Magazine especially Production Staff members who don't like getting up at 9:30am on Saturdays The next production session will be on Tuesday, March24th 6:30pm Scholastic Office, 3rd floor La Fortune~ 
FRESHMAN AND SOPHOMORES TO TAKE PART. 


ferent families," said Jackie Dale, a spokeswoman at South Florida State Hospital. "All three of them look very promising, but she can't belong to their families, can she?" Ms. Dale said. 
The amnesia victim has been confined to the hospital since last September, when a ranger found her !noBirth Stare Park. Schueler said the other families considered "strong possibilities" arc from the Western and Southeastern United States, but 
would not Identify them. 
Officials said jane Doc provided dues to her Identity while under the influence of sodium Amytal, a drug 
that can act as a ''truth serum." 
The  state  hospital  and  Fort  
Lauderdale  police  rc:ceivt:d  
hundreds  of  Inquiries  about  the  

brown-haired woman, believed to be In her .:\Os, after she appeared on ABC's "Good Morning America" program Feb. 10. "When I looked at her on TV, I said, 'That's my daughter,"' Irene Tomiczek said. 
Mrs. Tomkzck said she and her husband, Andrew, last ht·ard from their daughter, who would now be 34, when she called them, hysteri­cal, from a telephone booth In Hol­lywood, Fla., seveJt years ago. 
Applications for the 1981-81 
Student Government Cabinet Positions will be made starting 
~March 24 
at the 

Student Government Offices on the $econd floor of Lafortune. 
Must be returned by March 31... 
CRLb ghac~ 
welcomes all NO -SMC students less than 10 min. from campus 
~· 7 I 'i 11'1 
Spociaf!zinq in: Hrckory ~~:n•.,ki'Cl ria--,.., ami Rrb Tip:.; Bruastr:·d Chic•.•~;,, Pr·~~·.te'J Po~.-,toes. S;~rVJWiCile() <1:1J l'lt •W pillet 
TUES. THRU THURS.. PITCHER OF BEER $2.25 
Hours Fri. IIAM-IOPM 
Tues. thru Thurs. Sat. 4PM · IOPM IIAM-9PM Closed Sun & Mon. 
The Observer Tuesday, March 24, 1981-page 4 

.. 

r 
' 
LOS ANGELES -(AP) Carol Bur­nett's libel case against the National Enquirer went to the jury yesterday after her attorney asked jurors to "hit them where it hurts" by award­ing substantial damages. 
An attorney for the National En­quirer said Miss Burnett's libel claim should be rejected to protect the First Amendment and the public's right to know. Miss Burnett's lawyer, Ed Bronson, said in his closing arguments that the item, 
describing an alleged run m with Henry Kissinger at a Washington res­taurant,Jibelously implied the enter­tainer was drunk. 
Superior Court Jude Peter Smith made it clear that to award damages the jurors must conclude that the National Enquirer "acted with actual malice," when it printed the story. 
Because the Cl!ie was submitted to the jurors late in the day, Smith suggested they meet briefly, select a foremean and return this morning 



FELLOWSHIPS 
AVAILABLE 
The Department of Linguistics at the University of Illinois at Chicago Circle offers work leading to thf· MA in theoretical and applied linguistics. including an MA in TFSOI. tTearhihg English ro Speakers of Orher Languages I. 
A generous number of Fellowships are available tn qualifying graduate students. The Fellowships include a stipend of S I ,000 for rhe academic year, plus a Tuition Fee Waiver. In addition. other kinds 11f financial aid are available tn prospective students. The deadline for ap­plications is April .10, 1981. For application and infor­nlation. writ<· to: 
Andrew Schiller, Head 
Department of Linguistics 
L'niversity of Illinois at Chicago Circle Box -1.>-iS, Chicago, lL 60680 



ENGINEERS 
Gulf Oil Corporation, a major energy company, has job openings for all types of graduating engineers who are interested in building a career in crude oil and gas producing operations. 
Duties include drilling, equipment installation and maintenance, subsurface reservoir studies, economic evaluation of producing properties, well stimulation and reconditioning, and enhanced oil recovery operations. 
Training courses will be provided to accelerate career development in oil and gas producing and drilling operations. Positions are located in Gulf Coast, Mid-Continent, Rocky Mountain, and West Coast areas. Excellent employee benefits. 
Please send resume and transcript to: 

J. R. Ligon, Jr. GULF OIL EXPLORATION & PRODUCTION COMPANY 
Sec. E. P.O. Drawer 2100 Houston, TX 77001 
An Equal Opportunity Employer MIF 

for deliberations. 
Lawyer William Masterson, in his final arguments on behalf of the En­quirer, said, "I speak almost as much for an idea as for a client. News dis­semination is important -it's the stuffthis country is all about. 
"There are some who may feel that some news is more important than other. But according to the Supreme Court ... news is news ­period. It's all entitled to the same protection." 
continuedfrom page 1 
The union president declared last Friday that his efforts to revive; the talks had been futile.and told miners to brace for a long strike. 
Church continued his quest to resume bargaining throughout the weekend. The two sides returned to the table early yesterday, neither one saying what led to the breakthrough. 
Church said shortly after the two 

sides reached agreement that the 
union's 160,000 members likely 
would be on strike for four or five 
days -starting with the expiraton 

Coal tniners -wage -wildcat strikes 
(AP)-Hope ofaverting another long strike by the 160,000-member United Mine Workers of, America spread through the coalfields yester­day following the word ofa-tentative agreement, but 7,000 miners stayed offthe job in wildcat strikes. 
Miners and operators alike ap­peared optimistic as UMW President. Sam Church early in the morning an­nounced a proposed settlement with the Bituminous Coal Operators Assocation after a five-day stalemate. 
At least a brief national strike by the UMW, which mines about half the nation's coal, remained likely. The union's present contract expires Friday and official said ratification ofthe settlement by uni­on members would fake about 10 days. The UMW has a tradition ofnot 
working without a signed contract. 
Church predicted the national 
strike would last only four or five 
days ifthe settlement is approved. 
"We're pretty gratified that a 
tentative agreement has been 
reached, but obviously it has a way 
to go yet," said Doug Matyka of 
Amex Coal Co,, which has mines in 
Indiana and Illinois. 
"Ifit is a decent contract they will go with it," said Randall Duncan, vice president ofUMW district 23 in western Kentucky. "But they're going to look at it." 
The union's 39-member bargain­ing council will consider the proposed settlement today. If it ap­proves, the rank and file members in about 930 locals in Appalachia and the Midwest will be asked to ratify the agreement. 
But on everybody's mind was the UMW's record 111-day strike in 1977/78 that came after the mem­bership rejected a negotiated settle-. ment. 
Church said he would not go into the details, but that the union had won a 36 percent increase-in wages and benefits over the three years of the contract. 
He added that industry had abandoned its proposal for mines.to be open seven days a week, while the union agreed to study an in­dustry proposal to abandon national pension plans in favor of company­by-company plans. "I don't think the fellows would go back to work unless the pension plan was included right now," said Gene Connors, president of UMW locall643 in Monongah, W.Va 
Some UMW officials said a key to the settlement's fate will be Church's credibility with the rank and file. 
"I think they (miners) have more faith in Mr. Church than in anybody else in the last 10 years because he knows what's going on in the coal­fields," said William Harper of Dis­trict 29 in south central. West Virginia. 
Scattered groups of mines were staying home in Pennsylvania, Kt:n­tucky, West Virginia, Illinois and Ok­lahoma, but all wildcat strikes apparently had ended in Virginia, of­ficials said. At total of 12,000 were out at one point last week. 
• • .Miners 

and the package, I think it would 
probably be better for us to go ahead 
and work.... I can't see anything 
positive happening by having a four­
day strike that you really wouldn't 
need to have." 
Church added, however, that he 
does not know if the union's 39· 
member .bargaining council would 
be willing to seek an extension of 
the old contract during the ratifica­tion process, something the union traditionally has balked at. "I don't have the authority to do that," he noted, but "I would be willing to go along with it if the rest of the board did." 
He cautioned, too, that the coal in­dustry would have to agree to retroactivity for the interim period, · and had not yet been approached about that possibility. 
r • • .Strike 

continuedfrom page 1 
delegates filled the meeting hall but reporters were barred. 
The official media suggested that there were many unanswered ques­tions surrounding the beating inci­dent. 
The official Polish news agency PA~ published a lengthy statement saying that Solidarity activists who had refused to leave the government building after the meeting there was adjourned "were led out" without the use offorce. 
The statement said the issue ofin­juries that left three Solidarity ac­tivists hospitalized "requires careful examination and is being ex­amined." It suggested that some in­juries to one of the men rii'ay have been suffered in a car accident March I 5 in which another person was killed. 
Solidarity's account of the clash said that police beat up 23 people and that three were beaten so badly they were hospitalized. 

• . . Marchers 
continuedfrom page 1 Socialjustice is the issue." Signs carried by the marchers 
gerty said. "These weapons are read "Hands 0~ El Salvador: spend being used against the people. Ifwe money on jobsland peace","10,000 have to spend mopey on El Salvador, dead", and "In the name ofGod stop 
,spend it on schools and health care the repression.", centers." Today the activities will continue Some ofthe marchers sang protest with prayer serVices at 5 p."m. at the 
S?ngs such as "We Shall Overcome." Grotto, and at 6:15 p.m. at Saint Others objected, stating that the Mary's Church · of Lorretto for march supported Catholic positions, Archbishop Romero, the four mis­not liberal ones. One marcher com-sionaries, and the Salvadorian 
mented" Left or Right isn't the issue. people. 
• 

The Observer 

Tuesday, March 24, 1981 -page 5 
Taiwan rejoins Olympics 
LAUSANNE, Switzerland (AP) ­

The two/China dispute that has been a thorn in the Olympic Games for years was resolved Monday when Taiwan signed an accord at the ln­tern~tional Olympic Committee and rejoined the games, ending two years oflitigation and bickering. The accord, between the IOC and the new "Chinese Taipei Olympic Com­mittee" entitles Taiwan "to par­ticipate in future Olympic games ... like every national Olympic com­mittee with the same status and the same rights," according to a seven­line IOC announcement. 
Taiwan accepted a new name for the committee, a new flag and a new Olympic emblem replacing the old pre-revolution insignia under which the Taipei leadership claimed to speak for all ofChina. 
Taiwan was part of the Olympic movement under the name "Republic ofChina" untill979. The 
· mainland government consistently refused to take part in the Olympics while Taiwan was recognized. 
A small contingent ofathletes and coaches from Taiwan came to the 1980 Winter Olympics in Lake 
Yanks flock to Canada 
Dollar-a-gallon gasoline isn't the only thing drawing Americans across tht· border to Canada. The grass is also grt·ener on the Canadian side for those who want to cure a backache, get cut-rate dentures or save a bundle having a baby. 
And as the Yanks stream north passing them in the southbound lanes are Canadians in search of X­rated movies, cheap appliances or easy abortions on the American side. 
They are all taking advantage of a unique symbiosis between two na­tions that goes back a century and a half, when they settled a series of territorial squabbles. 
More than 70 million border crossings arc made each year, with heaviest traffit· in such spots as Niagara Falls and Detroit where Amerkan motorists lately have been queuing up at Canadian stations for gao;olint· up to c;o cents a gallon cheaper than at home. 
But perhaps the strongest bonds are formed in the little country towns that hug the 3,989-mile long border. Calais, in Maine, and St. Step· hen, in New Brunswick, are a pair of 200-year old towns linked by two bridges across the 1 00-foot breadth of the St. Croix River. 
"In some senses, it's like one com­munity of 10,000 people," ex­plained the Calais city manage William Bridgeo, the U.S.-born son ofCanadian parents. 
Calais and St. Stephen sometimes 
lean on each other. The Maine city 
buys its water from St. Stephen, and 
the two fire departments respond to 
each other's emergencies. The fami­
ly and commercial web uniting the 
towns is even thicker. 
Women from one side often have their babies at the hospital on the other, "depending on your doctor," Bridgeo said. Sometimes it depends on whether the woman is a dual U.S./ Canadian national who wants to capitalize on generous Canadian government maternity benefits by giving birth in St. Stephen. 
"Some people spend their lives 
erecting the system," the city 
managcr said with a laugh. 
At the other end of this continen­
tal divide, Blaine, Wash., population 
2,500, has become something of an 
X-rated outlet for the 1.5 million 
people of metropolitan Vancouver, 
British Columbia. 
Blaine's two "hard-porn" movie 
theaters, "adult" bookstore, 11 bars 
and bingo parlor are packed with 
Canadians who have no similar at· tractions at home because of anti· pornography laws, "dry" Sundays and other restrictions. 

But thousands on both sides make 
the crossing for more serious pur­
suits, often driven by pain, fear or 
high prices at home. 
For years, women from the heavi­
ly Roman Catholic province of 
Quebec have been having abortions 
in the U.S. Northeast. Although the 
operations are legal in Quebec, 
many medical personnel refuse to 
perform them, prompting women. to 
head south. 
Going the other way, one medical lure for Americans is a drug called Chymo Papain, which docs not have 
U.S. Food and Drug Administration approval. Some U.S. doctors swear by this extract ofpapaya as a cure for spinal disc problems and send their patients to Canada for injections. 
Canada can also cure a pain in the pocketbook for dental patients. 
"Lots offolks from around Buffalo go to the other side to get their dentures made," a U.S. Customs offi­cial at Buffalo's International Peace Bridge told a reporter. 
In Ontario, Americans can be fitted with full upper and lower plates for about S400, half the price back home. 
Placid, N.Y., but attempted to fly their flag and were kicked out. 
Taiwan filed suit against the IOC in an attempt to keep its flag and committee name and declined to send athletes to the 1980 Summer Games in Moscow. Mainland China, which had a small contingent at Lake Placid, joined the United States-led boycott ofthe 1980 Summer Games. "The accord assures Chinese par­ticipation" at Los Angeles, site of the 1984 Summer Games, Sarajevo, Yugoslavia, site of the 1984 Winter Games and all subsequent games, IOC spokesman Alain Coupal said. 
The agreement was signed by IOC president Juan Antonio Samaranch of Spain and Shen Chia/Ming, head ofthe Chinese Taipei Olympic Com· mittee. Henry Hsu, the IOC member from Taiwan, also attened. Photog­raphers were barred from the brief ceremony and the terseness of the press release on the accord also made plain that the IOC was not in· terested in giving the event much publicity. 
Chow Chung Hsun, secretary general of the Nationalist Chinese Amateur Athletic Federation, said, "Now that the (name) problem has been settled, our athletes should be able to take part in more internation­al competitions." 
A foreign ministry spokesman in Taipei, who did not want to be iden­tifi.ed, said the ,qovernment had no comment. 

KKK complains 
Protesters who pelted Ku Klux Klansmen with rocks and bottles in an assault that left at least 25 people injured were part of "a clear-cut conspiracy to deny us our rights to free speech and freedom of assemb­ly," says a national Klan leader. Bill Wilkinson, imperial wizard ofthe In· visible Empire, Knights of the Ku Klux Klan, said he hoped to meet today with Justice Department offi· cials to request that they investigate the Saturday violence by "cowardly communists." "We want to do all we can to see that the people involved are investigated and hopefully in­
dicted," Wilkinson said Sunday, sur­rounded by heavily armed police. The injured, inluding five Klan members and 19 police officers, 
were given hospital treatment and released or did not require treat· ment, except one female Klan mem· ber who is in guarded condition after being hit by a brick. 

1 
LSAT • MCAT • GRE 
GRE PSYCH • GRE 810 ·MAT GMAT • OAT· OCAT • PCAT VAT • SAT • CPA • TOEFL 
MSKP • NAT'L MED BDS ECFMG • FLEX • VQE NOB • NPB I • NLE 
~-HKIIPUIN 
EDUCATIONAL CENTER Test PreparatiOn Specialists S1nce 1938 

GRADUATE LAW PROGRAMS 
Full-Time or Part-Time Programs 
MASTER OF LAWS TAXATION 
AND 
BUSINESS AND TAXATION 
* 
Full-Time Program 
MASTER OF LAWS BUSINESS AND TAXATION­TRANSNATIONAL PRACTICE 
Salzburg, Austria and Sacramento Campuse~ 
* 
APPLY TO REGISTRAR 
McGEORGE SCHOOL OF LAW 
UNIVERSITY OF THE PACIFIC 

~ . 3200 FIFTH AVENUE ~SACRAMENTO, CA 95817 PHONE (916) 739-7106 
MEMBER OF THE ASSOCIATION OF AMERICAN LAW SCHOOLS (AALSJ -ACCREDITED BY THE AMERICAN BAR ASSOCIATION !ABAJ-FULLY APPROVED BY STATE BAR OF CALIFORNIA 



-~.~ 
Tuesday, March 24, 1981 -page 6 
Features 

Fourth WOW Opens N~xt Week 
W 
omen's Opportunity Week (WOW) began in the spring of I978, inspired by a few graduating seniors, sponsored by Saint Mary's Student Govern­ment, and dedicated to women. Student Government strongly supports this women's educational experience and invites you and your department to encourage col­leagues and students to participate in WOW 1981. This year's Women's Opportunity Week is set for March 29 ·April 3. The theme is "Celebration of Women" and the program is as follows (time and loca­tion are subject to change): Sunday, March 29, II:00 a.m.; Community Mass-­"Celebration for Women" 

Pat Carroll will delight ND-SMC audiences on 
April I. 
Monday, March 30, All Day; Women's Fair--(location to be announced), including Brigitte Nioche, Fashion Consultant; and at 8:00p.m, The Outcasts will perform at the Little Theatre. 
Tuesday, March 31, 8:00p.m. at Carroll Hall, Keynote Speaker:Nora Ephron. Ms. Ephron is a well-known writer and contributing editor toEsquire. She is the author ofthree books: Wall Flower at the Orgy, Crazy Salad, Scribble, Scribble. Reception following sponsored by Regina Hall. 
Wednesday, April I, 8:00 p.m. in O'Laughlin Auditorium; The Performing Arts Series presents Gertrude Stein, Gertrude Stein, Gertrude Stein wih Pat Carroll. Pat Carroll as Gertrude Stein invites you into her salon at 27 Rue de Fleurus where vivid stories, petty gossip, and the ghosts ofher illustrious and creative friends permeate the art-filled salon. 

Thursday, April 2, 8:00p.m. at Carroll Hall, Keynote Speaker: Mrs. DeBolt. Mrs. DeBolt is the mother of20 children, 5 by her first marriage, I by her second mar­riage, and 14 adopted children ofdifferent races and nationalities who were physically and socially hand­icapped and deemed "unadoptable." Reception follow­ing sponsored by Alulmnae Association. 
Friday and Saturday; Movie: Norma Rae and the opening ofNotesfrom the Nile by Adriana Trigiani. The new concept initiated in this year's Women's Op-

Dorothy DeBolt will speak ofher unusualfamily. 
portunity Week is the Women's Fair. The Fair has been 
designed to enable Saint Mary's students and women 
faculty to share their talents from their studies, hobbies or interests. Performances from the drama and music departments and readings from the English writing department are encouraged. Science comprehensives can also be displayed, and artists may decorate the Fair rooms. Departmental clubs and organizations may also want to participate. 
This celebration is going to celebrate all women, especially our guests ofhonor, Saint Mary's Women­Won't your celebrate? For more information, contact Meg Breslin, P.O. Box 559 LeMans, or phone 4410. 


Verbalpollution -the newpornography 
T
here's a new pornography taking over our language, and it makes 
me feel a ----ofa lot more uncomfortable than those Anglo-Saxon 
verbs and gerunds that are deleted from polite journals. When I hear 
somebody say "I think I know where you're coming from," I avert my 
eyes in embarassment. And if the response is "Yeah, I've been getting 
in touch with my feelings," I cringe as from a lewd anecdote. 
Can you believe I heard a college professor inviting another: "Let's 
get together and dialogue." Have they no shame? People are talking 
openly about "interfacing" and "interacting" wih one another. A stu­
dent told me that he had gone home for the weekend and had enjoyed 
interacting with his parents. He didn't even have the grace to blush at 
this incestuous confession. 
Ofcourse we've heard so much about communicating that there's no more juice in that word. It sounds as tame and old-fashioned as necking. And we've got so used to hearing people talk about relating to one another, or developing meaningful relationships that we've become quite callous to such language. I fear it may even have filtered down into the grade schools. 
"Resonate" is the latest indecency. "Certain aspects ofmy own life resonate in pop," Ralph Bakshi was quoted as saying the other day. A nun remarked -yes, a nun -that her experience resonated with the charismsofothercommunities. And a priest urged people to resonate wit·h one another in a shared encounter. What kind ofexample is this from the role models? 
"Role models!" There's another term that ought to be banished from respectable speech. It ought to be shoved into the closet from which "homosexual" and "masturbation" have emerged. "Role model" might be all right in the bedroom, or between psychiatrist and patient, but we mustn't use it in front ofthe children or they'll be pick­ing it up. Let's keep a few ofthese otherobscene compounds out ofthe hearing ofchildren: "peer group," "value judgment," "learning ex­perience." 
That ubiquitous "experience" has even tainted sacred words, so that in church we hear ofdevotees having a "faith experience" or a "conversion experience." Ifthey're not having an experience, they're having an encounter: a "sacramental encounter," or something even more kinky. "Married couples share encounter at weekend retreats," said a church bulletin. 
Anyone who uses "awareness" without giving it a decent object should have his mouth washed out with soap. On all sides people speak of"becoming aware," "getting involved," "caring,'' "sharing," ­and leaving these participles indelicately naked ofany object, direct or indirect. 
Astudent declared that he wanted a job which would "expose" him 
to a variety ofpeople. Another recalled that her year abroad had been 
valuable because she had been "exposed" to other cultures. Let's stop 
this indecent exposure before people begin talking ofbeing exposed 
to a new movie, or even being exposed to their grandmothers for 
Christmas dinner. 

People are "conceptualizing" and "internalizing" all over the place 
without a shade ofembarrassment. A young woman declared that she 
was trying to achieve "the internalization ofher various roles." Her 
boyfriend was searching for a "conceptualizing framework" for his 
career objective. 

What's the reason for this deplorable laxity in linguistic behavior? Can it be blamed on Communism? Oron Vatican II? Oron radioactive particles in the ionosphere? Whatever the reason, all lovers ofseemly speech must unite to stop the flood ofgrossness which is saturating our public utterance.. We must speak modestly ofmeeting new friends instead ofbeingexposed to a wide variety ofpeople. We m usttalk, not dialogue; we must learn rather than have a learning experience. Let's stop relating to people and simply get along with them. 
We grownups mustoe models to the young-not role models, just 
models. We must purify our speech of monstrosities like "public sec­
tor" and ""private sector", crudities such as "supply-side", and all 
phrases which include the word "facet." We must demonstrate the 
clean beauty ofsaying "I understand" instead of"I see where you're 
coming from." If we adults indulge in such loathsome phrasing as ''I'm 
into geneology," how can we blame our youth for a foul word like 
··charism." 

Above all. let us wipe out that perversion ofpoliteness: .. Have a nice 
day." And those nasty sentimental signs: "Have you hugged your kid 
today?" and "Have you called your-Mom today?" Clean language 
begins here. 




The Observer 
~«:)cJl~~======================T=u=es=da=y,=M~M=ch=2=4=,1=98=1==p=a=~~7 
Michael Molinelli 
YES~IR, .. WOUL.P 'tt>LJ L.IKE ~OME JCNURE? 


_ 


Molarity 



45 Force 24 Normand of 48 Puts back early tnms 52 Look out 25 Choice 
for no. 1 26 Dogma 54 Unemployed 27 Was con· 
The Daily Crossword 
©1981 by Chicago Tribune-N.Y. News Synd. Inc. All Rights Reserved 



1JOOOO 
r 
rn~ U®IP~n.rn wm~••• 
one day only rv:JBBII&Y 
~ -~~--4\
Wi:y'll®ffi LF(ID)]3XUJ,)J1 

~ illi:D])~ ~ will he sold again ~ Find somebody over break? ~ Don•t miss the celebration 
~ ~ 11:30-1:00 ~ ~LaFortune and LeMons 
ACROSS 27 Serves 1 Snake's 31 "Has-and weapon hungry 
5 Grovel look" 10 Information 32 German 14 Exchange region 
premium 33 Snout 15 Tanker 34 Obligate 16 Wood 35 Discharged 
sorrels 36 Expectancy 17 Sharethe 37 Cannes fortunes of season 20 Percussion 36 Fireplace Instrument Item 
21 "Betwixt a 39 Wounds Saturday 40 Educated and-" 42 Rider's leg 
22 Speeds covering 23 Got up 43 City on 24 Shooting theOka 
star 44 Think 
Yesterday's Puzzle Solved: 

LENTEN PENANCE SERVICE 
Sacred Heart Church Wednesday , March 25 
10 pm 

Presiding: Sr. Judith Ann Beattie, ·esc 
Homily: Fr. Dan Jenky, CSC 
an 
Confessions 
Following 
Campus 

•12: 
15 p.m. -lenten mass; fr. griffin, Iafortune rathskeller, all welcome. 

•4:30 
p.m. -biology dept. seminar, "aspects of develop­mental biology among the digenetic flukes," dr. raymond cable, purdue u., galvin auditorium. 

•7 
p.m. -chaplin film series, "city lights," annenbcrg auditorium. 

•7. 
9, II p.m. -hollywood classic film series,"mr. smith goes to washington," engineering auditorium, sponsor: nd student film club. 

•7:30 
p.m. --peace corps an­niversary celebration, "what does the peace corps do for a changing society?" welcome: ric­hard celeste, former dir. peace corps, keynote: sargent shrivcr, first dir. peace corps, library auditorium. 


Doonesbury 
Garry Trudeau 

IN llf£11/A/<£ t:FW. ~STAI<TUNG /)5(1/lj{Jf(£ 7JVlT 7llt U,!;. foltVfR 
mwmllltv~mx~~~~~ 
fJ(AJJtj HM {1Hf(}f?IUIIRJ1J aJNF/RM ~ HIS ClAIM. 5tiT. I£NNf,ffCCfMY/?lC4IiS. 
55 Words 

after 45 D 56 Ferber 57 Far: pref. 58 Peruvian 
ruminant 59 River In Belgium 
DOWN 1 Truth 2 Thickening 
agent 3-prius 4 Was suc­
cessful 5 Scaleless fish 6 Cambodian 
currency 7 Otherwise 8 Lamprey 9 Backed 
10 Depressant 11 Boric or 
citric 12 Adios 13 Like Mount 
St. Helens 18 Pungent 
bulb 19 Memento 23 Certain 
bird 
cemed 28 Derisive sound 29 Hogan's relative 30 Far from thin 32 Entertainer Theodore 35 Prognostl· cate 36 Laundered 
currency 38 Roost 39 Fats 41 Exactly 42 Spanish 
coin 44 Fabric 45 "-should 
rain we'll ..." 46 Iranian 
of yore 47 Satiate 48 Papal 
tribunal 49 Cerise and crimson 
50 Anglo-Saxon laborer 51 Havethe lead 53 In-law: abbr. 


The Observer Tuesday, March 24, 1981-page 8 

IN SOLIDARITY WITH THE PEOPLE OF EL SALVADOR on the anniversary of the assassination 
I 

of ARCHBISHOP OSCAR ROMERO March 24, 1980 in San Salvador, El Savador 
" ... reforms are worthless if they 
are stained in so much blood." 
Mike Delaney Anne Marie Mallon James Fenstermaker, C.S.C. Fr. John Fitzgerald~ C.S.C. Jane Walshe Judith A. Zaccaria Peter Wa lshe Sr. Jane Pitz, C.S.J. 
.Jeffrey M. Burns Emmas Wa !she John O'Neal 
Greg Higgins Albert H. LeMay Mike Ewing N.J. Meyerhofer Josie FoehreJlbach Peter Checca George McAleer Michel Marcy 
Michael White Kathleen Kennedy Stacy Balthrop Lynelle McBride Joe O'Donnell Susan Flynn .Julie Myers Ann Marie Bracken 
Anne Rudser Mary Cox John Rudser Clare Boesen Tony Cl ishem Mary Pat Golden 
Alice Kaufmann 
Mr. & Mrs. Conrad Kellenberg Chris Borre Michael Haggerty Veronica Fisher,c.s.c. Brendan Hudson Chris Oliver Caroline Cotter Lisa Schulte Louie Soelcke Sue Sommers 
"Without God there can be no true concept of liberation. Temporary· liberations, yes; but definitive, solid 
liberations --only people of faith can reach them." 
Maria More Colleen Cullen Sally Williams Larry Sims Karin Colsen Michelle Neislen Keala Smith Laura Reed Josie Callahan, C.S.C. Kathryn T. Dale Marv Ann Fenwick JoAnn Wenner Tri~ia Burke Sheila Draine Barb Schmuckel Hairead H. Deelan 
S. Kathryn Callahan, C.S.C. Barbara J, Mangione 
S. Kathleen Moroney, C.S.C. Mary Jane Murray Hare S. Murphy James Rauner Mary Turgi, e.S.C. Mary H. Bernard 
Jean Sneer Inger C.A. Soleta, C.S.C. Anthony Muse! Carolyn Burgholzer, R.S.M. Sandra Peterson Peggy Roach Chalon Mullins John J. Egan James G. Ryan Ken McCarthy Rod Struble, C.S.C. Monica Morin Suzanne Founier Br. Peter Mahoney, C.F.X. Jane Gaffney Mary Ann Roemer James A. Zarzana Don McNeill, C.S.C. 
Deborah J. Smith Thomas McLaughlin, C.S.C. Joseph V. Corpora, C.S.C. Paul Wharton Marty Mosby Kevin Fete 
"...I have an obligation to see that 
faith and justice reign in my 
..
Country... 
Jack Jemsek Ted Dilenshneider Tim Ungs Therese Anne Brown John Forbes Anne E. Colligan 
Bob Antonelli, C.S.C. kevin Allison Rich Smith 
Eliza Sullivan Rev. James T. Connelly, C.S.C. Kathleen Mass Weigert Michael Tota 
Daniel Osberger Louis Mario Nanni 
John A. Scanlan Kevin Guillet 
Gil Loescher Frank Guilfoyle 
Sharon 0' Brien William Dohar, C.S.C. 
Alice Wilber Dean Masztak Anne Kellenberg lohn Gibbons 

the repression !" 
Michael Sis Anonymous Rick RPnzi Celeste Hank Deborah Berry Dee Schlotfeldt Connie Maher Elizabeth Christt::an Julianne Chesky Phil Manz Beth Domnick Charles R. Hutti, Jr. Nancy Haegel 
"...I do not believe in death without resurrection. If they kill me, I shall rise again in the Salvadorean people." 
"...the voice of all those people 
without a voice ... " 
Helen Volkemener Thomas Cain 
J. D'Arcy Chisholm Scott Jacobs 
Anne Smith Jason Joyce Sr. Constance Gaynor, F.M.S.C. Steve Navarre Marilyn Bellis Anonymous Robert Pelton, C.S.C. Michael J. Greene Marcia LeMay Lisa H. Pimenta Sean Manix Tara Anne Carney 
Ann Pettifer Walshe Sarah Greach Denisard Alves Andrea Weber Will!.am A. Phelan Fran Firko James Kelly Thomas Haddox Velly Leahy Robert M. Powers William 0' Brien Jack Arends Rafael Molina Chris Peker Mark E. Pasquerilla Paul Thiel John J. Gilligan Marty Speranza Rita H. Kopczynski John Engeman Joseph H. Cosgrove Joe Ortega Tim Grothaus Michael J. Radigan Peg Miller Gerry R. Campbell Joseph O'Donnell Tom Parrill Tom Penucc io Andy Crave Edward F. kelly Paul Hurley 
"May my death, if it is accepted by God, be for the liberation of my 
people and stand as a testimonial 
of hope in the future." 
Dan Bell 
Michel Brennan Stacy Hennessy Daniel Verbin Steven Mangine 
Charles Brown Maggie Brett 
Michael J. Humbolds Julie Roehrig Mitch Moore Br. Bill Hewes, C.S.C. 
Philip m. O' Lorey Br. David Baltrinic, C.S.C. Tracy E. Arnold Thomas Dadlek, T.D. Carole HcCollester Tom Brady 
Hike Golden Ken Gaylord 
Tom Krueger Bridgit Lowry 
John Carlos Mary Kay Talbott Loz Boo Margaret 1. Osberger Tim Mitchell 
Martha Jimenez John Dunne, C.S.C. Mark Sullivan 
Pat Sullivan, C.S.C. Bill Lawler 
Eileen Durkin Joe WillkeDelores Mary Dwnm Delores Fain 
Lee Givan Marianne Murphy Amy Kerwin Joseph Godfrey Mike DeWeirt Hadhu Menon 
Jane Bennett Patrick Mooney Kimberly B. Flint Leslie LeMay Kristin Neubauer 
Marty Carrigan Laurie Zellmer 
"...in the name of God, stop 
Hugh MaHaney Lisa Sheiur Terry Coonan Sue Herbring Judi Langley 
Brian Fogarty Paul Kennedy Mark McNuhy Sean Faircloth Angela Vuagniaux Mike Rhodes Kevin Finnev Pat Smith 

A Prayer Service Commemorating the martyrdom of Archbishop Romero will be held TODAY, March 24, GROTTO 
5 PM 

The Observer Tuesday, March 24, 1981 -page 9 

Golfers capture fifth place in Florida Sunshine tourney 
jack Nkklaus is priming him§(:lf for the Masters while Noel O'Sullivan wa.'i geuing his Notre Dame golf team readied. The Irish began their sea.'i<m placing fifth in the four·day Florida International Sunshine tournament during spring break. 
"We hoped to get ·back into the swing with te weather and cour§(:s dt·signed for our sport," O'Sullivan said. "We also hoped to compete with teams ofthe Florida region, and we played very well against the Florida squads. Our fifth-place finish placed us ahead of our Northern 
competitors. It puts us in good shape for the·rest ofthe season." 
The Irish face Tri-State March 31 and the next day Valparaiso on their home course, the par 71 Burke Memorial GolfCourse. 
Sophomre Stoney Ferlmann led the Irish contingent in Florida with a 316 performance over the 72-hole tournament. 

By ED KONRADY 
Sports Writer 
The spring road trip for the Irish baseball team was rather bumpy. Its "exhibition'.' record is 0-7-1, al­though five ofthe eight games could have been won by the Irish had it not been for costly mistakes. 
Looking ahead, the Irish continue their extended road schedule, facing Purdue on Wednesday, Huntington College on Saturday, and Dayton on 
Sunday before their home opener against rival Indiana on the first of April. 
Highlighting the Irish trip were performances by pitchers 1 Bob Bartlett and: Bill Matre. Bartlett stuck out I 0 in a loss to Memphis State, and Matre, a sophomore, showed good form thoughout the trip. 
Also standing out was junior first baseman Henry Valenzuela, with a .380 batting average. 
In the first game, against Christian Brothers College of Tennessee, found ND leading 2-0 in the fourth inning when rain caused the scheduled doubleheader to be can­celled. A fine pitching peformance by Mike Deasey and a home run by 
.I 


Suffering with my team 
And then It was cJIIer ... 
The first memory I have ofsports is from the night my 
Dad took me to the local Elks Club to meet a coach and a 
player from the Boston Red Sox. I was five or six. 
For I'; years I absorbed every scrap of information 
about the team. I studied box scores. I made fantasy 
trades (always better than the real ones.) I prayed for 
the Tony Conigliaro comeback that was not to be. I 
went to the 197'; World Series. 
ll1e Red Sox were my tt·am, and I lived and died with 
their success or failure. lllere were no other important 
teams, in any sport ... until this year. 
lllis year I began covering Notre Dame basketball, 
in-depth, f<)r The Observer and WSND. 
Like the freshmen on the squad, I wa.'i nervous about 
attending those first fall pra<:tices. I cringed every time 
Diggt·r Phelps barked out instructions. Uke the fresh­
men, I made mililakes until I got the hang of my new 
role. I learned a great deal about ba.'lketball, and being a 
reporter, as the season progressed. 
'111e Irish became my team, and I lived and died with 
their success or f.lilu~e. But unlike my long-distance 
romanl·e with tht· Rt·d Sox, I fl'lt like an integral part of 
this tt·am. 
Sure, I'm flattering myself. I never set a pick or dived 
after a loose ball. Hell, a couple of players still can't 
remember my name. But it doesn't matter.
•1 was with these guys on their first road trip and, like them, I got goosebumps just being in Pauley Pavilion. I wa.'i also with them when they pulled out games against l.a.•ialle and Fairfield, overcoming overconfidence. 
I was there at the end ofthe long winter road trip, and sufferred through the frustration in Oakland. But I was also then· when the buzzer sounded and Virginia felt tht• frustration. 
I acht·d for Gilbert Salina..., when a cheap shot left him in the scats undt•r tht· San Francisco basket. I celebrated for Orlando Woolridge when a miracle shot left the Cavaliers with a 23-1 record. 

I listened to Digger Phelps praise opposing coaches after wins over Boston University and Cornell, and I lis­tened to him accept defeat at the hands of UCLA and DePaul. But more than that, I listened on planes and in 
his office as he spoke about his desires, goals, and the 
NCAA tournament. 

Finally, after all the preparation, after all the joy and 
sorrow after the hotel rooms and the airport terminals, 
after the sweat and the bruises, it was time for that 
tournament. 

My family came to Providenc~ I think they got a taste of the excitement and involvement that I felt all year. They must have, because in spite ofa ho-hum win over james Madison and Danny Ainge's 37 points against UCLA, they made travel plans for Philadelphia. 
Ispent only two days at home before flying to Atlanta. There, literally before I could unpack my suitcase, it all ended. 
I wanted to hear a whistle that would mean that Ainge travelled. I wanted the five seconds put back on the scoreboard that were lost when the scoreboard mal­functioned earlier in the game. I wanted to swear, but knew that my microphone would pick it up. 
I felt bad for Digger, and for the six seniors, and for all of the coaches, players, and managers. 
But, damn it, I felt worse for me. 
They've all been part of a team before. But this was the first time for me, and it ended too fast. 
Irish openbaseball season 
catcherJim Montagano were in vain. The Irish then travelled to Delta 
State to play three games with the second-ranked team in Division II, and although the Irish hit the ball well, they lost in ten innings, 8-7. 
"I wasn't upset with the team," said Larry Gallo, the Irish head coach. "We hung in there and it could have gone either way. This was our first game this spring, and it was their twenty-third ( 19-4 ). I consider it to be the best game the Irish have played since I have been associated with them." 
However, the game was costly as senior outfielder and captain Mike jamieson suffered a pulled hamstr­ing. He missed the rest of the trip, and will be sidelined indefinately. 
In the second game, Delta State 
simply out-slugged the Irish to win 
11-6. In the third game, the Irish 
were leading 8-6, when a costly er­
ror let two runs in and the game was 
called because ofdarkness at 8-8. 
Thursday Notre Dame played Mis­
sissippi in a double-header. The Irish 
had an early 3-0 lead when David 
Clemmets, a third baseman for 
Coach Gallo in the Cape Cod 
Baseball League, hit a three-run homer to lead 'Mississippi to an 11-'; victory. 
In the second game, the Irish were behind 2·0 when Jim Montagino hit a grand-slam home run. Brian Smith pitched a six-hitter, however with the wind blowing out at 2'; miles­per-hour, five ofthe hits were home runs. But in the end, key base­running and fielding errors gave Mis­sissippi a 7-5 win. 
The Irish ended their trip with three games against Memphis State, who had a I ';-0 recorH before the ser~es. In the opening game, Bobby Bartlett struck out 10 batters, but came up on tht• short end, as Memphis State won 6-'; in eight in­nings. 
Memphis State then took the next 
two games, a close one, H-6, and a 
not-so-close one, I 2·2. 
"We made foolish plays at key 
times," said Gallo, "and the teams 
took advantage of them. It will be 
tough coming back, but I think we 
have the mental toughness to do it. I 
am concerned that the team might 
start expecting to lose, but they 
haven't yet. What we really need to 
do is to take it one game at a time, 
and to get a victory under our belts." 
I 

'ND gets byJMU 
By SKIP DESJARDIN 
Sports Writer 
PROVIDENCE, R.I. -A week of preparation for an NCAA second­round match-up with Georgetown was discarded as Notre Dame arrived here. james Madison Univer­sity had upset the Hoyas and was ready to take on the Irish on March 14 for the right to meet BYU at the East Regional in Atlanta. 
Orlando Woolridge was ham­pered by a calcified thigh bruise that seriously limited his mobility. Tracy jackson and_Joe Kleine picked up the slack, however, and led the Irish to a 54-45 victory. 
"I had to help out more on the boards because ofOrlando's injury," said jackson after the game. "Whenever Oohn) Paxson didn't shoot, I went after the rebound." 
The senior tri-captain pulled 12 shots offofthe glass and contributed a game-high 21 points. 
Notre Dame came out very slow in the first half, shooting only 36 per­cent from the floor. Madison, on the other hand, hit 70 percent of its shots to keep the game close. 
There wa.'i never really any doubt that the Irish would win the game, but they couldn't seem to pui Jt away. Final 
Paxson threw In a left­
;~'~!
\~~~ol'"' 

(pHIA • tAP.q.. handed reverse lay-up that turned into a three-point play to put Notre Dame up by eight, and tht· victory was assured. 
Woolridge managed to play 39 minutes, but was not effective. Kleine came off the bench to play one of his best games this season, contributing eight points and seven rebounds. 
NOW OPEN! 
New and Better 
Notre Dame Credit Union Financial Center 

2 Drive In Windows Expandeq Teller Service 
Longer Hours, Speedier Service Better Able To Service All Your Financial Needs 

The Observer Tuesdar., March 24, 1981-page 10 


Inconsistencyfrom thefoul line broughtdefeatforKelly Tripucka and the Irish. (Photo byjim McDonnell) 
McLaughlin accepts U Mass helm 
By FRANK LAGROTIA 
Sports Writer 
Tom McLaughlin, assistant basket­ball coach at Notre Dame, today ac­cepted the head coaching job at the University of Massachusetts. 

The 30-}·ear-old McLaughlin, who served under Digger Phelps for three seasons, will replace Ray Wil­son as coach ofthe Minutemen. He is a 1973 graduate ofthe University of Massachusetts where, as a starting forward for three seasons, he helped the Minutemen to three ap­pearances in the National Invitation-' al Tournament. He was a teammate place with a great student body. Ob­ofJulius Erving while at Massachu-viously, I have a lot of close friends setts, where he earned a bachelor's there and I love the area. I'm looking degree in political science. forward to getting underway. 

Upon graduation, Mclaughlin, a "I am sorry to be leaving Notre native of New York City, played Dame because I have really enjoyed 
I professional basketball. in Switzer· the three years I've spent here. I am land until 1975. During the 1973·74 grateful to Digger Phelps for giving season he averaged 34 points a game me a chance. I learned a great deal and led his team to a fifth-place finish from him _and I think I'm a better out of30 teams. He came to the Irish coach for having worked under from Stanford University, replacing him." Dick Kuchen, who moved on to the McLaughlin and his wife, Debbie, head job at University of California a 1974 University of Massachusetts at Berkeley. graduate, have one son, Corry. His 
"I feel very fortunate to have been brother, Frank, a former assistant at given this opportunity," Mclaughlin Notre Dame, is head coach at Har­said. "I think Massachusetts is a great vard. 
PEACE CORPS MEANS BUSINESS. 
Teach bookkeeping in Belize. Help manage a handicraft shop in Tonga. Work with Filipino lending guidelines. In over 60 countries Peace Corps can use your business skills. Knowledge in areas like accounting, budgeting, personnel management. and marketing can help pro­vide jobs and economic growth. 
Register Now at the Placement Bureau for Interview: April 7 & 8 or calf 800-621-3670 

Vanishing before your eyes 
ATLANTA -Like a too-fast slide show run in slow 
motion did the disjointed scenes from Notre Dame's 
game with Brigham Young flash by. 
Irish up by 14. 
Irish up by 10. 
Up by eight. 
By six. 
Eight. 
Three. 
One. 
.. . /.{)2 ... 1:01 ... 
Behind. 
... :11 ... :10 ... 
Tripucka's prayer. 
Ainge's answer. 
... .{)2 ....{)1 ... 
.{)0. 

The double-time walk across the cosmetic court 
through the thrill ofvictory to the agony ofdefeat. 
Inside Notre Dame's locker room the silence is 
deafening. You're surrounded by emotion, but not the 
kind you can see or hear or easily discern. 
Hard to figure. • 
You can sense it but not describe it. 'Ihere is no way to make real what is surreal; to turn images into words .. . the right words. 
Out offocus ... it isn't supposed to be this way. 
But that's the way it is. Brigham Young won and Notre Dame lost and the numbers stay lighted high abote the Omni, daring you to argue. 
Of course the scoreboard didn't give reasons, but that's okay because the "experts" had plenty. They scrambled from the rafters like ants at a picnic, smelling a free feed. The object of their ascerbic criticism was, naturally, Digger Phelps. They blamed him because they had to blame somebody and it would have been oh so tacky to blame the players. But Phelps accepts it. It comes with the territory. 
Yet, to harp solely on strategy was to miss a crucial pal't ofwhat actually happened last Thursday in Atlanta Missed shots, critical turnovers and a 57 percent ac­curacy rate from the free throw line were just as in­strumental in causing Notre Dame's early exit from NCAA tournament play. 
Still the vultures forgot (or conveniently ignored) the latter as they screamed: 
"Nah, it was that stupid stall? Up by 14 and hold the ball?! No way, Digger! You shoulda went for the jugular." 
Given a chance, however, Digger could have defended his strategy. He could have explained that the delay game is an offense, not a stall. He could have even pointed out that the object of the delay is in fact, to score points, although not in the run-and-gun fashion that basketball fans think the price of a ticket entitles them to see. 
On the contrary, patience is the watchword here. Move the ball around the perimeter and wait for the mistake that leads to a backdoor pass and a Woolridge slam-dunk, ora slithering move down the lane that ends with a patented Paxson lay-up. 
He could also have claimed that the delay offense 
must have some merit because with it the Irish built a 
14-point lead. 

Still, Phelps chose not to publicly exonerate his game 
plan because doing so might have sounded like he was 
indicting his players. The best he would ~o is offer a 
simplified explanation ofhis motives. 
"We decided that the best way to attack Brigham 
Young was to be patient and let them make mistakes," 
he says. 

"Hey, UCLA tried to run with them in Providence and 
look what happened to them." The Cougars ran over 
the Bruins, 78-55. 

So he and his assistants watched film of the Cougars 
until their eyes burned out. Together they agreed on 
this game plan which they spoon-fed the team during 
practice sessions the week before the game. 
"Work the ball," Digger ordered. "Be patient. BYU 
will make mistakes." 


And BYU did make mistakes -for about 32 minutes. Then the rooffell in and it was Notre Dame that started to err. The Irish became tentative; they started worry­ing about losing instead of thinking about winning. They held the ball and watched the clock as the Cougars slowly bought their way back into a ballgame that should have ended their season. 
Hard to swallow but easy to understand. 
With Notre Dame up by 14 and coasting along at a solid clip, a let-up was only natural. And not only the players showed signs of overconfidence. More than a few Brigham Young fans were trying to peddle their tickets to Saturday's championship game while most Irish fans were buying all they could get their hands on. Questions in the stands rapidly moved from who would win the game to what there was to do in Atlanta be­
tween now and Saturday's game with Virginia 
But Phelps wasn't buying it. He'd been here before 
and learned quite a few lessons from being on both 
sides ofsome pretty unbelievable comebacks. He knew 
that Yogi Berra wasn't just being funny when he said: 
"The game isn't over until it's over." 
And Phelps had a feeling that this one-was a long way 
from being over. 
With 6: 11 remaining, Kelly Tripucka hit a 1 0-foot 
jumper to pUl the Irish up 46-42. Six minutes later 
Tripucka took another shot -a 20-foot bomb that 
found its target. In between Notre Dame attempted on­
ly one other field goal which, incidentally, missed its 
mark. _ 
Meanwhile, in the last 11 minutes of the ballgame, BYU outscored Notre Dame.21-10. Second half stats showed the Irish were outshot 23-16, out-rebounded 16-9. It was a classic let-up, comparable to winning the early rounds ofa fight then hoping to grab the decision on points rather than going for the KO. 
Too much too early. Too little too late. • 
But all ofthis is not to say that the players should be 
damned while Phelps and his assistants come out smell­
ing like roses. Breakdowns like the Irish suffered against 
BYU are a lot more complicated than missed shots and 
mental mistakes and if you sit down and really analyze 
it, you'll probably find more than enough blame for 
everyone. Or no one. 
"We win as a team and we lose as a team," Pht"'ps 
emphasizes. And that's all he's going to say about it. 
All of which was a moot point as Danny Ainge 
pirouetted from baseline to foul line, lofting home the 
winner as the game clock ticked down to zero and the 
season clock struck 12 for the Irish. 
Kelly Tripucka, head in hands, sobbing openly. Or­lando Woolridge, sitting in a corner, shaking his head. john Paxson, holding it in and facing the press when the others couldn't; taking up the slack like he had all year. Senior manager Mike Vanic, going about the business of packing up equipment; saying nothing, but hurting as much as anyone. 
And Tracy Jackson, strapped to a stretcher while being wheeled across the court to an ambulance waiting to take him to a hospital where he would be treated for a concussion. He is dazed; totally oblivious to most ofwhat is happening around him. 
And it is tough to see it end this way for players, coaches and managers who have worked so hard, come so far and wanted so badly to win it all. And, ofcourse, none of the X and 0 explanations, silent embraces or shallow "I'm sorrys" really matter. Nothing can ease the haunting pain that comes from knowing that they had it. 
And they let it get away. 

--------·-----·------------~-------~---------­
~j)()~tS~lJ~~~i~~~~~~S~======~====================T=u=e=sd=ay=,=M=~=c=h=24=,=19=8=l==p=a=ge=l~l 
by Tht' OhJert•t•r and Tht' A.rsuuatcJ Prru 
Digger Phelps,head basketball coach ~t t~e U~iversity ?f Notre Dame, has unequivocally denied rumors md1caung he will leave Notre Dame next season for an announcer's position at CBS. 
"I have not spoken with anyone from CBS and I have no plans to do 
so," stated Phelps when asked to comment on the validity of reports 
saying he has been offered S600,000 for three years by the network 
that recently acquired the television rights to NCAA basketball for the 
1981-82 season. "Right now all I'm concerned with is recruiting and 
planning for next season. All I want to do is win 20 games and get our 
ninth straight NCAA bid. 
Phelps, 40, will begin his eleventh year as head coach a~ Notre 
Dame where he has compiled a 206-84 record. He led the lrtsh to a 
23-6 record and an NCAA record eighth straight playoff invitation. 
. Notre Dame was defeated in the semi-finals ofthe Eastern Regional 
by Brigham Young University, 51-50. -The Obseroer 
lnterhall meetings for of the following sports ­men's and women's softball and soccer, along with baseball and graduate softball -will be held this week. The softball meeting is scheduled for Wednesday at 4:30 p.m. The soccer meeting is Thursday at 4: 1 5 p.m., followed by graduate softball and baseball at 4:45p.m. All meetings will be In the ACC auditorium and attendance is 
mandatory. 
lnterhall Wrestling champions are: Lee Vetter (Stanford) at 123, Frank Maneri (Fisher) at 137, Tim Schier! (Morrissey) at 145, Mark Prlmlch (Flanner) at 152, Rich Turgeon ( Zahm) at 160, Brian Baxley (Fisher) at 167, Tom Duer ( Flanner) at 
177 and Tony Masi (Stanford) In the unlimited division. 
Senior Chuck Aragon, the only Irish track man to ever break the magic four minute barrier In the mile, failed to qualify for the finals of NCAA Indoor Championships on March 14 at the joe Louis Area In Detroit. Aragon was fifth in his qualifying heat with a time of 4:14.0. His heat was won by eventual winner, Texas-EI Paso's Suleiman Nyambui. Nyambul's winningtime In the finals was 4:01.85. 
Notre Dame's men's fencing team, coached by Mike DeCicco, placed fifth in the NCAA tournament last Saturday at the University of Wisconsln-Parkslde. The Irish were elsht the year before. 
Mary DiStanisJaogained her IOOth coaching victory as 
the Irish defeated the University of Alaska-Anchorage, which also 
ended a seven-game losing streak, the longest in the school's history. 
The Lady Irish, however, lost to San Diego State and one other squad 
to fin ish their season at I 0-18. 
lost to San Diego State and one other squad. The Lady Irish close thier 
season. 
Notre Dame lacrosse Coach Rich O'Leary says that the team's first venture into varsity competition was a success. The team's spring break road trip included a 17·5 win over Radford Uni­versity, and a hard-fought 13-12 loss to Morgan State. The trip also included losses to junior varsity squads from Washington & Lee and john Hopkins Universities. O'Leary noted that despite the losses, the competitive matches against such quality opponents was heartening. 

• • .Ainge 
continuedfrom page 12 
fered a mild concussion and missed 
the rest ofthe game. 
The Irish used the same ball­control offenses in the second half that got them their early lead. However, as the game progressed they didn't take it to the basket as often. Notre Dame attempted 16 second-halfshots -only five in the last 7:34. 
"I don't think we slowed it down too early," claimed Woolridge, who said the calcium deposits in his bruised left thigh did not hamper his play at all. "We've had success doing it all season and It's worked. We just didn't score like Digger wanted us to during that stretch. We tried to con­trol the ball better in the second half and still get the shots. The shots just weren't there." 
.Era 

continuedfrom page 12 
When he left Moeller, 20 years later, he left a I 7 4-1 7-2 record, 12 Greater Cincinnati League crowns, eight regional titles and three mythi­cal national championships. A friend ofhis speaks warmly ofthe contribu­tion Faust made while at Moeller. 
"When he was here, Gerry was football coach, athletic director, fund-raiser, ticket manager, cafeteria monitor, booster club moderator, walk-a-thon chairman, athletic groundskeeper," and the friend goes on and on. "Why he was even responsible for keeping the sign in front ofthe school updated. 
"But you know something? He did every one ofthose jobs like it was his only job. When Gerry was in charge 
of something,  it  always got done  
right.u  
Besides  his  duties  at  Moeller,  

Faust ran a summer football camp and gave an average of two motiva­tional clinics a week during the of­fSeason to major corporations around the country. Said the Wall Streetjournal: "Gerry Faust is one of the most dynamic public speakers 
for industrial meetings." 
Roger Staubach, former all-pro quarterback with the Dallas Cow-
Arnold hoped that "nobody inter­prets this the wrong way" when he said that "I've seen in tourney play so often teams playing not to lose rather than to win. Ofcourse, Notre Dame has had success with their slow-down offense all year. 
"But maybe they did us a little favor by slowing it down too much -especially since we were in foul trouble." 
Ifthe Irish were dishing out favors in the closing minutes, they didn't give themselves any. Tripucka missed the front end of a one-and­one with four minutes left, center Tim Andree missed a wide open layup at 3:17, and Woolridge missed the first of a bonus opportunity at 
1:43. Yet Notre Dame kept its lead because Paxson rebounded an er­rant Ainge shot (after Andree's missed layup) and Ainge was called for walking (after Woolridge missed his free throw). 
It appeared that Notre: Dame wanted to freeze its lead for good in the last three minutes. That's when the Irish spread their offense ovc:r the entire half-court. While tht.• Irish tried to play keep-away out on top Paxson posted low to keep Aingc out ofthe BYU defensive picture. 
But Woolridge: was tied up by Timo Saarelainen ncar half court. That forced a jump ball with I: I 7 left. BYU controlled the tap and set up a Ballif jumper from the top ofthe key, which gave the Cougars a 49-48 lead -their first -with I :02 left. 
The Irish ( 23·6) worked for the last shot and thought they had it when Tripuck:t connected al the I 0 second mark. 
But the lights didn't go out untl Ainge pulled the plug. 
boys and a long-time friend of Faust, highly recommended him for the Notre Dame position saying: "I don't think there is a job in the world Ger­ry can't handle. Notre Dame will be getting a real prize ifthey hire him." 
Faust calls the Irish head coaching job, "the only job I would have left Moeller for; the only job I ever really wanted. It's a chance I've been waiting for all my life." 
Now Gerry Faust finally has his chance. And Notre Dame: fans everywhere are waiting to see wha he does with it. 
Tomorrow: Michael Ortman looks bat-·k on bow Faust got tbe job. 
Irish nettersface tough away tneets 
Notre Dame's men's tennis team and I'm sure the other two will also. continues its tough road grind that Indiana State may not be as good as sees the Irish play 20 oftheir first 21 they've been in the past, but I'm sure matches on the road as they take a they'll be ready for us." Both teams 11-6 record to Ball State this Satur­lost to Notre Dame last season by 7-2 day and continues down the road to scores. Indiana State on Sunday. The Irish won six of ten matches over spring "I think what we need to start vacation. doing is winning three-set matches, 
"This isn't going to be an easy Fallon said. "We've: lost an awful lot weekend for us," head coach Tom of those so far -five against Long Fallon said. "I think Miami, Western 
Beach. We can't afford to continue 
Michigan and Ball State rank one­in this trend." The Irish are 16-21 in two-three in te Mid-American Con­three-setters compared to 3S-16 ference this year. Miami gave us a during the 20· 3 campaign last very tough match this year already, 
season. 
------------------------------------·----·------------------------------·--------------------------------------·-----------------------·­
All r.l,tSSiht•r1 .Hl'i must he rl-'t"fHVt'CI h\ 4 ~5 p m twn dd\'S pri.J' ''J ,,...... ·~i'tltl' ,,~ wV~lll'h lht• 'HI ''i r\tn The Observer oi!ICI' ,-\lrli rlC:Ccpl c!.losd ~~ts M~tnd.h• th,n.,qll F'n•L11 10 00 ,, m to!) 00 IJ m ;,,, ,·lils:c;•f,.,ds "'t:'"' t.•t
Classifieds il.. ·lhttd ,., .,,., ,., lh'IS11n <•r rhrouqt1 !lle .,.,,u· 
QorlcEO 
USED & OUT·OF·PRINT BOOKS bought, sold, searched ERASMUS BOOKS Tues·Sunday. 12·6 1027 E. Wayne (One block south of Eddy· Jefferson mtersecllon) 
INSTANT CASH PAID FOR CLASS RINGS $20·$85 OR MORE WE MAKE HOUSE CALLS 255·2402 
PROFESSIONAL TYPING Convenrent to Notre Dame. 272· 7623 
OVERSEAS JOBS Summer-year round Europe. S Amer.. Australia. Asra, All fields $500·$1.200 monthly. Srghtseemg Free mfo Wrrte IJC. Box 52-IN4. Corona Del Mar. CA 92625 
A study rs berng conducted on com· pan res that sell TERM PAPERS. II you are a student who has turned 1n one of these papers, or a professor who has recerved one please call Pat at t 728 All calls wrll be CONFIDENTIAL 
Don't mrss JULIA thiS Wed. and Thurs. at 7, 9 and 11 pm m Engr. Audrtorrum 
Wrll pay cash VW bugs rusted. waffled, roasted. blown 272·5453 
MORRISSEY LOAN FUND Semora can no longer apply L.ut day for underclassmen to apply is Thursday Aprll2 
II LOS"!_I­
__FO-U-ND--...,\ 
LOST: BLUE CANVAS WALLET in ACC 
men's locker room, 3-10·81. PLEASE 
return wallet, or more Importantly, its 
contents (my ID. lrcense.elc) to either 
the Psychology dept office in Haggar 
Hall. or the Counseling Center (4th 
floor Ad Bldg)--KEEP the cash con· 
tents as a reward. I just want my ID's, 
etclll NO QUESTIONS ASKED. If you 
have rnfo about rts whereabouts. 
please contact Chuck Lepkowsky at 
1718 days. or 289·5964 nrghts 
FOUND PAIR OF LADIES GLASSES IN ETS THEATRE. CALL 1829 AN[) ASK FOR NIKKI. 
LOST Volkswagen car keys Please call 8914 
LOST A green notebook contarnmg biOlogy notes. Thts is crucial to my btol­ogy course as well as the MCAT II found please return to 305 Sortn hall or call 8542 and collect a handsome reward DESPERATE. 
=~=FO=R=RE=NT==/ 
Houses tor rent 81·82 school year and summer. Close to campus. gd. end. turn. Call287·5361alter6 p.m. 

Avarlble for fall -· 3&5 bedroom house in walking distance ol campuus. For details call after 6pm 232·3264 
FOR RENT · UGLY DUCKLING RENT· A·CAR FROM $7.95 A DAY AND 7 CENTS A MILE. PHONE 259-UGL Y FOR RESERVATIONS. 
6 bedrooms. $100-mo. each. Each has door lock and lavatory. Commumty livrng room & krtchen. Fully furnrshed 2 baths. Brcycle storage. Free washer & dryer. Clean. Rated superior. Box 2513, South Bend 46680 
L--1_W_A_N-T_E-D~~l 
NEED rrde to NY area lor Aprri2-Aprrl5 Please call232·3656 
r·-P-ER-SO_N_A-LS........,/ 
Ann Landers says: Have a problem? Can't sleep? Can't work? Can't? Killed anyone recently? Constrpa1ed? Fall down and go boo· boo? Well. all you have to do is GET 
COUNSELING! ' 
Don. I mrss JULIA thrs Wed. and Thurs. at 7. 9. and 11 pm in Engr. Auditorrum 
BUMPERSTICKER 

(1) 
WHEN YOU SAY NOTRE DAME. YOU'VE SAID IT ALL" 

(2) 
WHEN YOU SAY IRISH. YOU'VE SAID IT All" $2.00 each. Send check or money or­der to: 


IRISH' PO BOX 3364 CHAPEL HILL, N.C. 27514 

Dear M.J. Thank you lor all of the 
Southern Hosprtalrty" you showed to me over break. I hope that I may return the favor m the very near future. 
Much Love. 
Tom 
Just when you thought it was safe to go back to commencement ~~ Knute Rockne /I I! II 
STARSISTARSISTARS! 

Be here May 17, 1981. tor a star· studded cast of thousands. Prostrate yourself before The Hero of the ·eos 
Ronald Reagan. Also starnng· Alexander Harg and the Cambodtan B­52's Davrd Stockman and the Grim Reapers Jack (God love him) Kemp and his East Side. West Stde. Supply Side Dancers The baccalaureate ceremony will be presrded over by the Rev Jerry (God loves me) Falwell substituting for Fr. Theodore Hesburgh who wrll be with Fritz Mondale buying a new hat at Shannon Atrport. 
Senior Formal bid torsale. Cheap (So's my dateI) Call Mike 1795. 
ND·SMC photographers Do you need a model? t need camera time x7344 
WILL DO TYPING. CALL 287·5162. 
ATTN. JUNIORS 

Sign up today lor your SENIOR 
YEARBOOK PHOTO by callrng x3557 
or STOP by 2c LaFortune (oil the ball· 
room between 9·5). 
Vote March 30· CLASS OF '84 
l YNCH·Pres. 
SCAIBNEA·V P 
AOSS·Sec. 
RADZIKtNAS· Treas 
LET THE GOOD TIMES ROLL! 

COPY EDITORS NEW AND OLD 
meetmg tonight 7 p.m. newsroom 
0: To whom do artrsts appeal for Jn· sp1ration? 
A: To the Nme Mooses, of course. Speakmg of msp1rat1on. I owe a credit lor the Mrdsemooseter break")oka to Stephen B1racree, who is a lrie'nd f6r reasons beyond my control. 
Moose Control 
P.S. Beware the Restless Herd 
The Vanlan Saga 

Evrl agam drsturbed Conttol last 
week as my starcrUtser traversed the 
Vanian Sector. My crutser was 
obstructed by the TrumbutJran 
Regulator. and thrs has aroused my rre. 
I wrll take vengeance upon the per· 
petrators of this vrle deed. I am 
resolved to nd Control of the Vanrans. 
They are a pox upon my realm 

Moose co'ntrol What wll/ you do? 
What wrllyou do? 
NEW WAVE BAND 
BARNABAS 
THIS SATURDAY NIGHT 

Members of the 81· ~2 SMC Board of Governance Tomght wtll be our ftrst unollrcral meetrng. Call Eileen (5196) lor further mlo on trmes, etc 
Karen, 
Nrce fOb you drd to Steves hand You should be 1hanklul he s not gorng to sue 
Schmttzte s parents 

Howard does tl agaml 
Well, tt's that ttme ot year once agatn Yes. rt's Debbre·s brrthday Whatever shall we do to celebrate rt properly? Most everythtng that has been con­stdered so far IS precluded due to the arnval ol Lent II YOU have any sugges· Irons please call 3783 or stop by 444 Lewrs At the very least. stop by lor a brrthday krss durrng regular workrng hours 
tane·o. r'm thmkmg of you wrth love always. trm 
brucegod. koob much lately? the 'vaman 

Tuesday, March 24, 1981 -page 12
SRorts 
·Ends Irish season 

Ainge pulls plug on ND 
By PAUL MULLANEY 
Sports Writer 
ATLANTA -Brigham Young's • Danny Ainge did very little to hurt Notre Dame in the first 39 minutes of Thursday night's East Regional semi-final contest. But the All­American guard pulled the plug on the Irish by hitting a layup on the game's final play to give the Cougars a 51-SOwin. 
It happened after Kelly Tripucka had given Notre Dame a 50-49 lead on a jumper from the right corner with just I 0 seconds left. BYU called timeout with :08 showing on the Omni scoreboard clock, and prepared to inbound the ball under the Irish basket. 
Ainge took the inbounds pass, determined to go all the way him­self. He dribbled past the entire Notre Dame team before arching a shot from the lane over the out­stretched fingers of Orlando Wool­ridge. The ball fell through with two full seconds remaining and Notre 
Dame, out of timeouts, was left 
feeling the pain that many of its last­
second victims have felt over the 
past few years. "We set up two op­
tions during the timeout," said BYU 
coach Frank Arnold of the last play. 
"If they dropped back in their 
coverage we were going to try a long 
pass. But if they pressured us, we 
Faust begins a new-era at ND 
Editor's note: Notre Dame opens spring football drills this Saturday, marking the on-the-field debut of new Irish coach Gerry Faust. This week The Observer will take a look at the new coach in a four-part 
·series which begins today. 
By FRANK LaGROTIA 
Sports Writer 
Gerry Faust became Notre Dame's 24th head football coach with an an­ticlimactic turn of the mimeograph machine that spews forth official 
jock  talk  from  the  Fighting  Irish  
sports  information  office.  An­ 
ticlimactic  because  rumors  that  

Faust would come to South Bend had been circulating since the August evening when Dan Devine announced his resignation. Of course, no one among the athletic department's heirarchy would con­firm the report; but no one would deny it either. And if you're familiar with the way things work at Notre Dame, you know that no denial is as good as a confirmation. 
Anyway, at 3 p.m. on Nov. 25, Faust was in the locker room at Cin­cinnati's Moeller High School get­ting ready to show his team the films of their most recent victory -a 30­7 trouncing of the Ma6sillon Tigers that gave the Crusaders a fifth state title in the past six years. He was summoned to the school's main office to take a phone call from Father Edmund P. Joyce, Notre Dame's Executive Vice-President and Chairman of the Faculty Board in Control ofAthletics. 
It was a call Gerry Faust had been waiting for for 45 years. 
The five-hour drive from Cincin­nati to South Bend was the begin­ning ofa dream come true for Faust. He had always wanted to come to Notre Dame. But Notre Dame had never been interested, until now. 
"I used to hum the Notre Dame Fight Song when I rode my bike back · 


and forth to CYO football practice in 
third grade," he admits with a smile. 
"I was a Notre Dame diehard even 
then." 

After his career at Dayton's 
Chaminade High School ended, 
Faust, naturally, wanted to enroll at i 
Notre Dame. But the Fighting Irish 
just weren't interested. 

"I was too small to come here," he points out. So he opted for the Uni­versity of Dayton where he began a long relationship with the Society of Mary, whose priests staff the univer­sity, as well as Moeller High School. Faust earned three letters as a quar­terback for the Flyers and, upon graduation, he returned to Chaminade as offensive and defensive backfield coach under his father, the original Fuzzy Faust. 
"I wanted to work for my father," he relates, "because he was and is my idol. He calls the elder Faust, Chaminade's coach for 49 years, "the greatest coach that ever lived." 
After two years at Chaminade, Faust heard of a new Catholic High School that would open with a fresh­man class in 1960. He was just what the new school was looking for, so he left Dayton in August, 1960, for Moeller High 'School and his ap­pointment with destiny. 
See ERA, page 11 

were going to get it to Danny Ainge and he was going to go all the way to the hoop." 
The Irish employed full-court pressure, the Cougars got the ball to Ainge, and Ainge ended Notre Dame's season seconds later. 
"I was hoping to either draw the foul or get the basket," said Ainge, who doubles as a third-baseman for the Toronto Blue Jays. "I saw an opening to the baskrt and decided to take it to the hole. I guess I was just fortunate." 
It was virtually the only time in the game that Ainge could consider himself fortunate. BYU's catalyst (averaging 25.2 points before tip­off) was stopped throughout most of the contest by a box-and-one defense that saw Irish guard john Paxson become Ainge's shadow. 
"He was following me everywhere I went," said Ainge. "He doesn't make any mistakes." 
Notre Dame held Ainge to only 12 points -his lowest output of the season. His only points of the first half came on two free throws. He took only four shots in the half ­missing them all -while the Irish pulled ahead by 10, 28-18, at inter­mission. 
"Ainge had 37 points against UCLA, and we didn't want him to do it again today," said Irish coach Digger Phelps afterwards. "We 
wanted to control him, and we did .. 
. until the last eight seconds." 

While Phelps' defensive game plan called to shut off Ainge, his of­fensive strategy was to avoid the type of transition game that BYU • used to destroy UCLA a week earlier. "We did not want to run and shoot with them," Phelps said. 
Notre Dame's patient offense worked well in the first half. The Irish committed only five turnovers in the first 20 minutes and used a trio of three-point plays to build their halftime bulge. They had great success working the ball underneath to Woolridge, who scored 11 of his game-high 17 points before inter­mission. 
"We were really embarrassed at the half," confessed Arnold. "In fact, Notre Dame outplayed us Virtually the entire ball game. They con­trolled the tempo, and we weren't ready for their box-and-one. It was the first time we had seen it all year." 
A minute into the second half, the Irish had built their largest lead at 32-18. They continued to keep a double-figure lead as Tripucka 

· scored Notre Dame's first eight 
Greg Bailiffputs BYU up for the first time in the game. (Photo by jim McDonnell) 
points of the stanza. When Wool­ridge hit a short bank shot with 

11 :49 left, the Irish found them­selves leading by 11, 40-29. That's when the Cougars, according to Ar-1 nold, "chipped away, and chipped away, and chipped away" at the Notre Dame lead. 
While three of its starters (center Greg Kite, guard Steve Craig and for­ward Fred Roberts) were one per­sonal away from fouling ou"t, BYU scored seven unanswered points in the next two minutes. The Irish lead slowly dwindled as Notre Dame bas­kets became fewer and farther be-· tween. 
With 3:34 left, BYU came within one point when Greg Ballifs three­point play made the score 48-47. Ballif drove the lane for the bucket and drew the foul on a collision with Irish guard Tracy jackson, who suf-
See AINGE, page 11 

Accepting the loss to BYU 
Needless to say we were very disappointed after last week's loss to Brigham Young in Atlanta In a lot ofways it was hard to accept, mostly because it was the last game for our six seniors. All of them worked very hard to win a national championship. Each of them, in his own way, gave Notre Dame something special and I am going to miss them all a great deal. 
It is very difficult to accept a loss like that, but there is really no one to put the blame on. I think we had a good game plan and I think we were prepared. Alot ofpeople will criticize us for some of the things we tried to do, but I think if you look at the films of BYU all year, that was the way to beat them. UCLA tried to run with them in Providence and we saw what happened there. 
It just wasn't in the cards for us. First we lost Wool­ridge for two weeks ofpractice and that had to hurt his timing. His stats against BYU were great but the little things were missing. But that wasn't his fault. He gave more than we had a right to ask of him. Besides, if we would have won that game, it was the opinion of the doctors and trainers that he might not have been ready to play Virginia two days later. One good game we could expect, but his leg might not have been able to give us another one 48 hours later. 
Then we lost Tracy Jackson with a concussion at the end of the game and we probably wouldn't have had him ready on Saturday either. We never fool around with a head injury. So that means we would have played Virginia without Jackson and with Woolridge at less than 100 percent. You see what I mean about it not being in the cards? 
But I don't want this to seem like I'm making excuses. We had a 14-point lead and we lost it. We had BYU where we wanted them and we let them get away. We lost the game. Period. 
But give our kids some credit. We had a hell ofa year. Nobody thought we could beat Indiana, Maryland at College Park, North Carolina State at Raleigh, the way we beat Virginia ... it was a great season. One we can be proud of. 

Regarding the rumors which say I'm leaving Notre Dame for a job with CBS, alii want to say is that they'rl"' lies. I have not talked to anyone from CBS and I have no plans to do so. My plans right now are to coach at Notre Dame next season. 
Right now what we're worried about is recruiting some kids to come in with Ron Rowan and Danny Duff, the two guards we've already signed. I'd like to say I'm sorry to see Tommy McLaughlin leave, but I'm very hap­py for him and I think the University ofMassachusetts is getting a great coach and a great human being. We'll move Gary Brokaw up to a full-time assistant and Iknow he'll do an excellent job for us. 
As for me, I'm going to finish up recruiting, take a little vacation, and come back and start planning for next season. Rumor has it that·we'll be rebuilding next year; that we'll have a weak team and an off-year. Well, I say let them believe what they want to. I hope the whole country thinks we're going to be terrible. That way we can surprise everyone we play. 
Our goal next season will be to get it going, win 20 games, and earn Notre Dame's ninth straight NCAA playoff bid. That's the challenge we're facing and, per­sonally, I can't wait to get started. 
~' ' 




