• • • Glee Club -page 6 

United Way leaders discuss campaign 

In preparation for this week's Onited WaJ' campaiJ<fl, Observer Neu•s stuffer Sonya Stinson met in· dit•iduai/J• tl'ith Bro. joseph McTag· gert, Sean /Jigan and joe Urie, the orxanizers of the campus driue, to discuss the campaign. 

Q: lf'haf are somt' of lht' goals and organizatumal plans of the United Way dri11e at Notre Dame? 
A: ( .'vlcTaggert ) What we: have set as a goal is I00 percent participa· tion. Notre Dame has bec:n improv· ing ovn the }Tars. United Way has not always hl-en as organized as it is now. Our goal t:ach year has been to tightl·n up the: organizational structure. I think it's wdl organized now, so that we hopl· to move this nl·xt year under the: auspices ofStu· dt:nt Activities. 
Q: If/bat kind of response hcwe you gotten from students? Are the}' t•nthusiaslic about fht' dril1e or is tbere some skepticism? 
A: ( Digan) It's both. Soml· pt:opk look at it as kind ofa pain, hut I think a lot of pcopk li:l'l that it's some· thing they can hdp out the com· munity with. A lot of studl·nts don't rl·ally know what United Way is and who it hdp.., out. Around hne, we have a lot of questions about ahor· lion. The l 'nitnl Way in St. Joseph county doesn't suppport any of the ahortion-rdated groups. Every yt'aJ Wl' pass out abortion disclaimers. kttl'fs saying we don't sl·nd money 
to organizations like the March of Dimes and Planned Parenthood. 
Q: Are there any neu• ideas this yearfor encouraging contributions to the door-to-door collections in the dormitories? 
A: (Orit:) We want them to give because they want to give. We don't want to use pressurl· tactics. There has really been no major change. We: push for section leader involvement. We have bar graphs in the Observer. We just want to c:ncourag(· friendly competition within the dorms. ( Digan) We are trying to get to the off-campus students more. We are going to have: some people at Campus Vic:"· go around and collect, and we're going H) Sl't up in Lafortune next wc:ek so that oft~ campus students can make their donations. 
Q: The section leaders have become more int'olved in the or­ganization of the drive in the last IU'O years. lf"/.1J' do you u•ork through tbem? 
A: ( Digan) W l' fc:lt that. collecting door-to-door, we'd do better if we got people whom the students knew. You're more apt to give money to someone you know. What makes or breaks our whole cam· paign is whether the section kaders do a good job. 
Q: Holl' do you determine tbe amount tbat you ask each student to contribute? 
A: ( Orie) In a sense, the two dol· Iars we are asking for is not mul·h compared to everything dsl'. When we look at the overall plan, we: sec that of the 21 groundskeepers here, 20 of them gave: S4H oftheir salaries. And we'rl· asking two dollars from the students. I think that next year 
See Q&A, page 4 
'Surviving life 
Wotnan UJins battle UJith cancer 
By NANCY SHULING 
As.wdated Press 
NEW YORK ( ap). Cancn invaded 
Stephani Cook's body at a timl' when 
thosl· who knew her thought of her 
as a hl·autiful mothl·r of two, a Bar­
nard Colkgl· graduate and former 
modd, married to a successful Wall 
StrlTI investment bankn. 
She was all those things. 
Shl· was also a 27-yl·ar-old woman 
who wanted to dit:. 
The: story of Stephani Cook is not juM a story about outwitting death. It is a story about learning to survivl· lift:. 

She tdb it in a nl·w book <:alkd Second Lif<'. whid1 chronicles a dist·asl· and a life gone haywire, an illnl·ss and a recovery from a rare ti1rm ofcancer· and ;1 more common malady: "a lift-time of indecision. fl·ar. guilt and PARALYSIS." 
As a young woman, she dreamed of a pa.,sionat<: husband hut chose a pragmatk ont·. As a young wife, shl· kit like a tailure and blamed hersdf for her unhappiness. 
She couldn't set:m to do anything about it. 
Whc:n she first brought her shout· der and chest pains to her doctor, he responded with kindly skepticism and fathl·rly advicl· about the dan· gers of sdf·indulgence and tht: im· portann· ofgetting enough rt:st. 
"My resolve, my impulse to ·insist, taltt:red Olll'l' I had been examined and found mys .elfacross from Dr. G. in his tastefully decorated oftke," she wrote. "I smelled patronization coming on.... Evc:n upside down I could read the word 'Lihrium."' 
She interprl'led her pain as punishment for her inability to do what other women seemed to manage so easily: to accept life's limitations, to abandon romantic no· lions, to grow up. She vowed 10 try harder to make: hl·rsdf happy. 
But the symptoms persisted. The doctors poked, prohl·d and puzzlc:d. tht:n attacked with tests and opera· lions, most of whieh were painful, lkhilitating ·and unnn-essary. 
She wasn't getting any better. And she couldn't seem to do any· thing about it. 
"I could hardly get out of bed in the morning; how then could I get 11<:w dO<:tors and start with them all over again, complaining, apologiz· ing, convincing~" she wrote. 
Finally. in November 1971, Ms. Cook's illness w;1s diagnosed as can· l'l'r of the placenta · a disl·asc: that 
STOCKHOL\1, SWEDEN T ( AP) Swedish authorities said Sunday . "therl· must he some other reason" than Soviet hureacracy keeping a skipp~-r aboard his grounded sub· marine. hut they dismissed the pos· sibility of using force to end the stalematl· off the Baltic coast. 
Lt. Cmdr. Pyotr Gushin poked his head out of the sub's turret Sunday for a breath of fresh air. but the 3"i· 
can bl· spotted with a sie1pk urinalysis, a disease that devdoped during her second pregnancy. 
Until recently, 90 pern·nt of its victims died within a year. By the time it was discovered in Ms. Cook, she'd had it for two years. 
See CANCER, page 4 
year-old skipper was still rdusing to come ashore for interrogation despite instructions from the Soviet Embassy here to cooperate with Swedish oflkials. 
The boat ran aground in a restricted area of the Baltic Sea on Tuesday night. about nine miles from the Karlskrona naval base, a key defense installation. 
Gushin has maintained all along that he is awaiting instructions from his home naval base at Kaliningrad, Swedish oftkials said. One theory put ti>rward hy the Swedish press is that he is kept on hoard while being interrogated hy Kaliningrad via radio, and that the Soviets want their investigation to take precedence ovl·r Swedl·n's demand for a 
thorough explanation of what thl· sub was doing poking around in Swedish waters. 
Commodore Lennart Forsman of 
thl· naval base at Karlskrona con· 
firmed at a nc:ws confc:renn· that 
there had been intermittl'nt radio 

coJltal·t hl·twtTil the sub ami 
Kaliningrad. 
Swedish expnts say the 220· foot· 
long, dic:sd-powl-red sub is specially 
moditkd for intdligentT missiom. 
Swedish ddi:nse otlkials said thq• no longer hdkve Sovic:t hureaucraq· is hd1ind thl· standoff. in which Sweden refuses to allow the sub to he pullnl frn· unlc:ss it gets a satisfal'tory explanation of its mission. 
"Tlwrt· must he some orher reason," said Swedbh naval com· manlier Svt·n Carlsson. 
Meanwhile, Swedish Ddl·nsl· Min· ister Torstcn <iustafsson .-,aid in a tell-vision interview Sunday that IH· docs not forl·see force bl'ing used to resolve the deadlock. 
"I l'an't StT any such possibilities." <iustafsson said. 
"The Swedish government has actl·d with considerable firmness,"· in it.-, dealing with the Soviets, (ius· 
See SOVIETS, page 4 

1The Solidarity Movement' 
Lecture examines Polish labor 
ByBILLKOLB 
StaffReporter 
The Polish Solidarity movement's origins, devdop· 
ments, and status wc:re discussed Friday afternoon in a 
lecturl· presented by Professor Karol H. Borowski in the 
ETS Theatrl· of the Center for Continuing Education. 
Titled "Poland Seen and Experienced: The Solidarity \1ovement in Sociological and Personal Perspl·ctive," the lcnurc: tran·d the conflicts between the Catholic Church and the Communist Party that have kd to the currl·nt crisis. Poland, said Borowski, is a "country of numorous pardoxes." Noting that Poland's culture is deeply rooted in a thousand-year-old Catholic tradition. he ohscrwd that the Polish Church has bc:en revitalized 
since communism was imposed upon Poland as a result of World War II. 
"Despite a restrictive atmosphere," said Borowski, "the: Church strengthened and priestly vocations grew." Instead of a "service station" dispensing weekly religious services. it became a genuine: "Church t>f Christ," enjoying a strong relationship with the people. 
Noting that the t·ommunist government's t•fforts to dividl· and repress the Church in fact strc:ngthent·d it, Borowski maintained that the Churl·h's tight for human rights and dignity have: played a crucial rok in the Solidarity movement. Borowski said that despite the harassment of bishops, tht· removal of the: intdligc:ntsia from positions of leadership, and the: show trials of Polish dissidents, Poles have nc:ver conformed to Soviet supremacy. Recalling several uprisings after WW II which were brutally suppressed--one: in which 400 Poles dl·manding food and frn·dom of religion wc:rc: killed--Borowski observed that Polish opposition to the: government gathered momentum with the in· creased awareness of corruption. While the: Wc:stc:rn 
press failed to report the repressive nature ofthe: Polish government, th<: anti-communist untkrground pr<:ss in Poland flourished, along with the illegal distribution of 
See SOLIDARilY, page 4 

ewsBrieb 

II\ I be< lhst•n•er and /he .·lssociated l'ress 
Two inmates at the Indiana State Prison 
have been hospitalized in the wake of a four-week hunger strike to 
protest against prison conditions, The Indianapolis Star reported in 
yesterday's editions. HO\vever, Department of Correction officials 
maintain everything is normal at the maximum security facility in 
.\1ichigan City. "It's nothing more: than shop-worn propaganda tac­
tics," said Warden jack R. Duckworth. "I don't think we c:vn had a 
strike: here:. We had a few inmates who skippnl a meal or two. hut I 
don't think tht·rc: wa~ ever total abstinc:m:e." Inmates say Duckworth 
and other correction officials arc trying to cover up the strike. The Star said. An Indiana State Prison employee who t.kclincd to he idcn­tifinl told The Star that at least eight prboncrs in tht· 1-Cell-hlock detention unit have been on a hunger strike for the last li>Ur weeks to protest lack of medical atlention. unsanitary condition in the cel­lblock, guard harassment and broken windows in the lockup unit. 
AP 
A man who lost his only son in Vietnam was 
being held on a murder charge yesterday, accused ofshooting a 13­ycar-old trick-or-treater who wore an Army costume and carried a toy suhmachine gun. Daniel Kevin Breaux. described as large for his age, was shot once in the chest with a .357 Magnum on Saturday night as he and two other boys stood waiting for Halloween treats on Robert james Bouton's front porch, sheriffs deputies said. "They rang the doorbell and he answered the door." said Sgt. Browning, slammed the door, ran to his bedroom and got his .357 Magnum and came back out. "He stepped out on the porch, said something to the effect that 'You think it's funny, huh?' and he shot him." said Brown­
ing, the chief investigating officer in the case. Breaux died about 75 
minutes later at Earl K. Long Hospital. Bouton, 58, was held at the 
city jail on a charge of second-degree murder. Depuries said bond 
was set yesteray at S2 50,000. Bouton was expected to undergo psyc­
hiatric tests, deputies said. -AP 
Interior Secretary James Watt, whose anti­
environmental stance has garnered enemies among ecology groups, has nothing to worry about despite public protests, a Interior Department official says. james R. Harris, director of the U.S. Office of Surface Mining, said political pressures won't harm his boss. regarding the massive petition presented to President Reagan last week calling for the removal ofWatt, Harris said that "all the petition proves is that I, I00,000 people in the United States today can sign their names." Harris, a former Indiana legislator, addressed the fall meeting of the Illinois-Indiana section of the American Institute of Professional Geologists held at Indiana University last week. He was appointed to his position by Reagan and confirmed by the Senate in July, and immediately undertook to rewrite the regulations which the office of Surface Mining imposes on coal mining companies. ­
AP 
The percentage ofpeople votingin last year's 
presidential election dropped to its lowest level in three decades, but that's not the way Americans remember it. According to a new, unpublished, Census Bureau survey, 59.2 percent ofAmericans aged 18 and over reported having voted in 1980. That would have topped the percentage turning out in both the 1972 and 1976 elections. However, the Federal Election Commission reports that 53.9 per­cent of those eligible actually voted, the smallest percentage since 1948 when Harry Truman upset a favored Thomas E. Dewey. 
"There is a general tendency for people to overreport their par­ticipation on voting," explained Martin O'Connell of the bureau, which collected the information about two weeks after the election as part ofits regular population survey. 
A few discrepancies between actual votes cast and the number 
who say they voted occur, he said, because some people may vote in 
some elections, but not for president, some ballots are eventually 
disqualified, and in some cases one family member may ant swer the 
survey for another and give an incorrect answer. --AP 
The University ofNotre Dame Alumni Associa­
tion will honor an outstanding senior each year when it presents a 
citation based on service to the University and community, as well as 
good academic standing. Officials of the 67,000-membcr organiza­
tion say the first distinguished Student Award will be presented at a 
national meeting in May 1982. Nomination forms arc availble to 
members of the University community and may be obtained in the 
Alumni Office, Student Government. and the offices"of deans and 
rectors. The nomination deadline: is November 20. and a committee. 
coordinaed by Rev. David E. Schlaver. C.S.C, director of campus 
ministry, will study the list of proposed honorees during the 
Christmas Break. Other members of the selection committee are 
Rev. John L. Van Wolvlcar, C.S.C., vice president for student affairs; 
James McDonnell. director ofstudent activities; Dr. Emil T. Hofman. 
dean of Freshman Year of Studies. and Dr. Katherine Tillman. assis­
tant provost. The new award has been described as equal in sig­
nificance to the present Sorin and Armstrong Awards presented by 
the Alumni Association each year to an outstanding alumnus or staff 
member, respectively, on the basis of service to Notre Dame and 
their communitv. -The Obsen,er 
Partly cloudy and mildwith a 4o percent chance of rain today and a 20 percent chance tonight. High today in the mid 60s. Low tonight in the mid to upper 40s. Tomorrow partly cloudy 
Monday, November 2, 1981 -page 2 
Freezing the·Arms Race 
The nuclear arms race is soml'thing that people do not like to think about. and lilr umlerstandahle reasons. :'llo one wants to dwell on the buildup ofarms in the li.S. and the Soviet !Inion, and the possible consequences of the: usc ofthose arms. Y ct. as we ignore what is going on, advanced technology is making it possible to conduct a 
"limited nuclear war" to "neutralize" Soviet forces should hostilities break out in Europe. Have we: come so far from the ashes of Hiroshima and Nagasaki that a nuclear exchange, as limited as it may he:, now seems feasible? 
Lt is at times like this, when we discuss the prospect of tactical nuclear warfart· as if it were a game: of "Stratego", that we'd better step back and see where the arms race: is leading us. As nuclear war becomes .m\lre and more practical, we inch closer to the use of nuclear weapons to resolve a conflict. There is only one waY'5o alter this course of events, and that is to halt the arms race altogether. 
The Nuclear Fn:cze Campaign offers such a proposal. The campaign's call for a halt states that "to improve ·national and international security the United States and the Soviet Union should stop the nuclear arms race. Specifically, they should adopt a mutual freeze on the testing, production and deployment of nuclear weapons and of missiles and of new aircraft designed 
primarily to deliver nuclear pumped into defense could weapons. This is an essen­he used to balance the tial, verifiable first step budget, improve human toward lessening the risk of • services, or increase aid to nuclear war and reducing developing nations. In addi­the nuclear arsenals." tion, inflation, spurred on hy 
The campaign does not the military-industrial com­have a lobby in Washington plex, could be slowed down. to further its cause; it relies Information regarding the on newsletters and petitions freeze campaign will be dis­to spread its message and tributed tomorrow, and build support. In this spirit dorm reps from Pax Christi the Notre Dame/Saint will gather petition Mary's chapter ofPax Christi signatures door-to-door 
is sponsoring a "Nuclear 
Freeze Week." The group 
will aid the campaign hy 
circulating informational flyers, and pettions calling on 
Indiana's Congressional delegation to take action 
towards a nuclear arms moratorium. 
In addition. Ed Laarman, a Ph.D. candidate in theol­
ogy, will speak on "Nuclear War,Just War, and Christian Faithfullness" tomorrow evening at 7 p.m. in the Hayes­.Healy Auditorium. Fr. Jack Keefe of the Fatima Retreat Center will celebrate a Mass for Peace on Sunday, Nov. 
8 at 10:30 a.m. in the Farley Hall Chapel. 
Bro. William Mewes, coordinator of the week, ex­
plained that the focus ofthe campaign is to halt the arms 
race, as the first step toward eventual disarmament. "It 
is like driving off ofa cliff. First you stop, then you back 
up," he said. 
The logic behind the campaign is simple. If nuclear war is dangerous and costly, why should it be con­tinued? The U.S. and the Soviet Union both fear that if they halt the production ofnuclear weapons, the "other side" will get ahead. Most experts agree that the countries are equal in military strength. so why not stop now before one of the two produces more weapons 
The_Obs_eryer 
/Jesign Editor... . ............ l.isa Bontempo Design Assistant...... .. .... Tim Nedy Trpesetter............ .. ..... Ray lnglin .Veu•s Editor... .. ..... David Ri<:kahaugh Copy Editors ......................... Paul .\lcGinn 
Joe .\1usumt'ci 

Features Layout... .......... Gr<:gnry Swkr<.:z .\ports Cop)' Editor....... ,\lark Hannuksda 1)•pist... .. .........John ~lcCarthy Svstems Omlrol .................. 1\ruc~ Oaklq .VD lh~y l:.'tlitor... ... David (,rotc: .\',11(.' Day t'ditor... .. ... Ct-ct· llalile' Ad Design .... Fran & Shag Pbotographep· ... .. Carl Frushon Guest Appearances ... ............... ·Boss' Flint 
·\la lldl' ~loose 
Tim Neely 
He of the Ll'h Hand 
Tim & ~ike 
lkhy Lehy The Mac Bat girl 

O"UN\PIR Pli~S AMNouNeES••• 

Michael Molinelli's brand New Collection of Campus Comics 
~olarity: 
Don't Make a Right 
now available at ND/SMC bookstores autograph party Nov. 2 3:30-5:00 . LaFortune Rathsk liar 

Tim vercellotti 
News Editor 

Inside Monday 
(Such as the American Pershing II and ,\IX missile sys­tems. and the Soviet SS I:', SS 18, SS Jl) ICB .\fs )? 
Vnification procedures play an important part in this proposed freeze. Randall Forsberg, of the Institute for Defense: and Disarmament Studies, the founder of the freeze campaign, writes that "satellite sensors can now read a license plate in Moscow." U.S. satellites can tell the number of missiles and subs. their type, and whether or not they are being transported around the 
country. A freeze  on  warhead  production could he  
monitc:red  by  the  safeguards  of  the  International  
Atomic Energy Agency.  

The benefits from such a freeze are numerous. An end to the arms race would prevent both the U.S. and the Soviet Union from developing weapons that would make nuclear warfare more "practical," and therefore, more possible. The money that is currently being 
beginning Wednesday. The 
petitions will be sent to 

Third District Congressman John Hiler's office, and copies will be sent to Indiana Senators Richard Lugar and Dan Quayle, as well as to 
President Reagan. 

The importance of a halt to the nuclear arms race cannot be underestimated. As the distance grows be­tween our world and the world of August, 1945, the horrors ofnuclear warfare become less vivid, and less of a deterrent. As technology advances, the prospect of a "winnable" nuclear war becomes more feasible. I won­der ifsuch a war would really have any winners? I think it would be easier to stop the arms race than to find out1 the answer to that question. i 
Observer notes________, 
The Obsen,er newsroom welcomes information leading to the investigation ofcrimes in the Notre Dame-Saint .\1ary's community. If you have wit­nessed a crime that should be reported, call our offices at 283-8661 or 171 5. All sources are guaranteed confidentiality. 

Editorial Board and Department Managers ­
==Ibe=Obset:Ver== 
Editor-in-Chief....................... ......John McGrath S.WC .Veu•s Editor......... .....Cathy Domanico
Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
Executive News Editor........... ............. Kc:lli Flint Photo Editor ................... . .....John Macor 
The Obsen,er is an independent Editorials represent the opm10n of a 
Neu•s Editor ..................................Tim Vcrcellotti 

newspaper published by the students of the majority of the Editorial Board. Commen­
Neu•s Editor......... ................... David Rickabaugh Bus~ness .Wanager. ...... Rich Coppola
University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint taries. opinions and letters are the views of 
Sports Editor ..................... .........\1ichac:l Ortman Controller..................................... ......Joe Mulflur
Mary's College. It docs not necessarily their authors. Column space is available to Editorials Editor............. .........Anthony Walton Ad11ertising .Wanager ......... .............Chris Owen
reflect the: policies of the administration of all members of the community, and the free either institution. The news is reported as expression of varying opinions on campus. Features Editor ................ ........Gregory Swiercz Production .Wanager.... ...... ,\1ichac:l .\1onk accurately and as objectively as possible. through letters, is encouraged. SMC Executil'e Editor. ..........\1ary Agnes Carey Circulatil-m Manager ... ...Tom .\1acl.ennan 
' 
The Observer Monday, November 2, 1981-page?. 
Devine discusses 
moral problems 
By MARK ROLFES and SUE FLECK 
StaffReporter 
Dr. Philip Devine, professor at the 
University ofScranton and author of 
The Ethics of Homicide, read his 
paper entitled, "Birth, Copulation, 
and Death" last Friday in the library lounge The paper discussed and questioned the views one has toward present day moral problems sm:h as the death of an individual, reproduction in the interest of fi1ture society, and sexual relation­
ships. Devine also presented the overflow principle, which he defined as ''that which Is associated with a person ought w be treated with respect." 
Devine said that Death is concep­tualized as a lover, a journey, or a homecoming. In order to make it in­telligible to us. Death is mysterious to us only because we refuse to see what it really is --the annihilation ofthe self, according to Devine. 
Stating that a living being is related to its corpse, Devine said that moral problems can arise cont·eming the disposal ofthe body, promises made lO the person when he was living, and the wishes of the dead being respected. He said that the way one acts toward a corpse reflects one's reaction lO a living being as well as to the whole society. The connection between persons and remains that is presented in the overflow principle should assure the respect for a corpse and all that is related to it. 
On the subject of reproduction 
and birth, Devine calls the former a human good, necessary to the "welfare of human posterity." Al­though one is not obligated to have children, bodily creatures tend toward reproduc~ion, and therefore have a responsibility to it, according to Devine. 
Fivetentative principles ought to govern this area of reproduction, according to Devine. They are "1 ) reproduction is a basic human good, 
2) the human species is to be con­tinued, 3) not aJI possible concep­tion should occur, 4) numbers are secondary, 5) the incursion of technical process into the human reproduction is to be limited." 
Devine then discussed sexual morality, distinguishing between rules and principles of individuals and those of a broader sort. He said that he was "not trying to say how to behave but why sex has a peculiar moral importance." Moral conclu­sions depend on moral com­paratives such as the commands of society and of God, according to Devine. 
Rape and sexual assault, he said, violate moral rules that forbid violence. Prostitution involves ex­ploitation. Homosexuality falls short ofthe "ideal union ofthe two sexes". Child molestation and incest are wrong since in those instances, love should not be expressed sexually Devine also said that there is an ar­bitrary inexplicable limit on autonomy. Use of the human being merely as that steps beyond this limit, according ~o Devine. 
Devine closed by saying that his overflow principle is a principle and 
not  a  rule.  ...,  
I  
.  II  

The ~01--:--_l
-~c-=-va;_ 
·~····················-­
8-5 
•
3 •

: H you are in~erested in : working for an innovative
• 
:energy company considered 
• 
: a leader in. its field, we will :be recruiting on campus on •:Nov. 10, 1981. 
•
•
•
• 

~t l~t night's SMC Student Government Boarg Meeting, Hall_section leaders met with the board members at a re(.:eption to encourage their participation in the government. (photo by Car~]. Frusbon) 
Standoff continues 
Union plans for new strikes 
WARSAW, Poland (AP)-Challeng­ing the Polish Parliament and nation­al union leaders, local Solidarity unionists planned new strikes and vowed Sunday to continue wildcat , protests now idling some 250,000 
workers across the country. 
Prosecutors in the Baltic port of 
Szczc --in began a criminal investiga­
tion oflocal Solidarity leader Marian 
Jurczyk for a speech he gave calling 
legislators and the government 
"traitors to Polish society," the offi­
cial PAP news agency reported Sun­
day. 
It was the first reported 
investigation of a senior Solidarity 
official in the union's 15 months o( 
existence. 
Walkouts are scheduled by 
Solidarity chapters in at least six 
cities this week, but officials could 
not immediately be reached to say if 
they planned to cancel the protests 
in light of Parliament's appeal Satur­
day to end them. 
The Solidarity National Commis­sion is to meet tomorrow in Gdansk to discuss the protest wave, and may take diciplinary measures against its own members for the first time. 
Meanwhile, the worst spate of wildcat walkouts since the inde­pendent labor federation was spawned in August 1980 showed 
: THE BROOK.LYN UNION GAS ! ! COMPANY CONGRATULATES ! : THE 1982 GRADUATES OF : : NOTRE DAME. : 

•
•
: • 
•a •
•
•
•
•
• 

: Plea~e visit your career planning center for details.: • 
little sign ofabating Sunday. 
Strikes --some of them up to 3 weeks old --continued in Zyrar­dow, Tamobrzeg, Zielona, Gora and Sosnowiec over food shortages and other issues. 
Many local leaders remained adamant that strikes would continue until the labor disputes were resolved. 
"The strike committee considers all important matters and it will have 

The Sejm said in its resolution Saturday that such protests endan­gered Poland's existence --an ap­parent reference to continuing economic decline. Poland has an es­timated S27 billion foreign debt to the West and its lack of hard cur­rency has exacerbated the strike ef­fects by curtailing Poland's ability to import raw materials needed for its manufacturing base. 
to consider both the Solidarity-~====~=======:::::~:;:;:~
leadership and Sejm (Parliament), 
resolutions," said a spokesman for striking unionists in Tamobrzeg. 
"But the strike will certainly con­tinue today and under the current , circumstances, there is almost no chance that the strike committee will decide to stop in the next day," he added. 
The union official cited the "stubbomess" of government negotiators who demanded the protet be suspended before talks commence. 
-. ....... 

The Obaerver (USPS 598 920) is j published Monday through Fnday and I on home football Saturdays, except I during exam and vacation periods. The I ObHrver is published by the students 1 of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Col­lege. Subscriptions may be purchased 
for $25 per year ($15 per semester) by writing The ObHrver. P.O. Box Q, ' Notre Dame, Indiana 465~6. I 
The ObHrver is a member of The ; Aaaocleted Preaa. All reproduction 1 rights are reserved. . Sacond class postage paid at Notre I 
,,,?~~~· Indiana 46~56. _ _) 
··~ 
PIZZA 
277-5300 

r~~---~--~-~-----,

I S200QFF
ILarge Sicilian ~p Dish Pizza 
I Good at Cleveland Road Store 
I across (rom Universt~y Park Mall. I 277-5300. One coupon per pizza. IIExpires Oct. 24, 1981. 
r----------------~
I S200QFF 
1-Any 16 or 20 -inch Hand Tossed IIRound Pizza 
1Good at Cleveland Road Store 1across from Universi(v Park Mall 1277-5300. One coupon per pizza. 
!Expires Oct. 24., 1981. 
~--------------~~ 
Monday, November 2, 1981 -page 4 
• • • Solidarity 

continuedfrom page 1 
books such as Orwell'sAnimal Farm. 
Borowski also. included the creative leadership of Lech Walesa as a factor which led the strikes in the pon city ofGdansk to evolve into a national movement. Call­ing himselfa "man full ofanger," W alesa has been jailed over one hunded times for his panicipation in it. Admit­ting that "things can't change suddenly," Walesa urges a cautious wresting of control from the Communist Pany. He admires the West, said Borowski, but says "the Western World sometimes wants to pay its bills with Polish blood." 
During one ofBorowski's frequent trips to Poland, he 
witnessed a food line that extended halfa mile. But the 
stores are empty except for incidental items such as 
Chinese tea. He said that the Communistsare usingfood 
as a weapon to gain bargaining power, and the Poles 
know it. 
Surprised by the general optimism among the people, 
Borowski repeated several jokes currently popular in 
Poland that are critical of the government. Unlike the 
past, however, Poles are impatient with jokes, prefer­
ring action instead ofwords. 
Political awareness, Borowski said, is high. One Pole 
said,"We've been misled for thiny years. The Com­
munists claim to represent peasants and workers, but 
they are thieves." Noting that Poles are not as afraid of 
Soviet invasion as the West thinks them to be, Borowski 
said "The Soviets are already there." On a recent visit, an eighteen-year-old nurse said, "We won't trade our -dignity for f~~d and shelt~r. We are ready to makeany sacrifice to maintain our human rights." Borowski said the food situation is indeed critical, but Poles might survive the winter with food from privately-held 
stockpiles. 

The Polish people, he said, want to be a free nation. 
They do not trust in the government or in the pany, but 
in.the Church and in Solidarity. The leaders ofSolidarity 
consult the Vatican and the Polish Church, a practice, 
he said. th~t is "!ood but dangerous." 
In conclusion, he stated "Solidarity is a genuine social 
movement whose roots are complex. Its purpose is a 
better quality of working life through revitalizing the 
whole Polish society and challenging the political and 
economic structures. In panicular, Solidarity points out 
all contradictions of the socialist system and demands 
democratic concessions for the whole nation. Solidarity 
is also a challenge to the world's democracy." 
Currently Professor ofSociology at Laboure College, 
Boston, and visiting scholar at Yale University, 
Borowski was educated in Poland at the Catholic Uni· 
versity ofLublin and in the United States at Yale. 
Founder and Secretary-Coordinator of The Yale 
Committee for Academic-Cultural Relations With 
Poland, he returns to Poland three to four times a year. 
He is the author ofseveral publications on social change 
in Poland and in the United States. 
• • • Cancer 
continuedfrom page 1 
self-defense. I wanted to show why it 
is important to make courageous 
decisions about life-even ifyou look 
selfish or self-indulgent, and I 
wanted to show what can happen 
when you stan mixing up what you 
can trust with what you can't." 
In the beginning, she thought she could tell her story by skimmng the surface, without digging up too much old pain. 
In the end, she found that imos­sible. She dug it all up and put it on paper, resisting temptation to leave the messy pans out. 
With anotherbook planned --a novel this time --she's beginning to think of herself as a writer. She al<to has a doctorate in psychology, which she's been usi(lg ~o interp~et 

To entertain Irish fans, Laura Lewis attempts to out-do fellow cheerleader Shelly Obermiller's stunt at the game Saturday. (photo by Carl]. Frushon) 
'T SELL YOUR GA. TECH TIC 
Tickets will be collected this week iD the 
DiDiDg Bolls. 
Off cOIDpas studeDis cOD drop them off ot the Studeat Activities OBice Zad Floor LoFo'....
1 

IT'S A GRAND OPENING! 
MONDAY~NOV.2-SATURDAY,NOV.7 
9:30A.M.· 5:30P.M. MONDAY· 8:30P.M. 
She had also undergone -open 
bean surgery and a radical hysterec­
tomy in which doctors removed her 
uterus, both ovaries and her cervix. 
"What if this is it? Right here? What if my last view of the world iS the cracked ceiling, the peeling green paint, instead of the sky and the trees and the Hudson (River) in the late-afternoon sun? What if I have long since eaten my last heavy, dark, moist chocolate cake? With a glass ofsweet cold milk to go with it? ... What if I die?" she wrote. "What ifI die?" 
After four months of chemical 
warfare, doctors cured the cancer. 
After a lifetime of-psychological sur­
render, Stephani Cook cured herself. 
She's 3 7 now, well into her second life, divorced and happily settled in a Manhattan apanment. Opera music wafts through cavern­ous rooms. Fat red candles light the way to a warm, cheerful kitchen. 
The dark, silky cunain ofhair that r..!! out during chemotherapy has grown back; the beauty believed lost to disease has returned. The cancer has not, and she is "basically very healthy," she says. 
Second Life grew out of shon ar­ticles she wrote for Tbe journal of CutTent Social Issues and Glamour magazines. It is "neither revenge nor self-therapy," she says now. "It staned because my experience ap­peared potentially helpful to other people." 
It also staned as "an exercise in 
• • • Q&A 
continuedfrom page 1 
they·should raise it. 
Q: How mucb ofthe money col­lected In tbe drive actually goes to the agencies, and bow mucb is for overhead expenses? 
A: (Digan) From the students, 100/ goes to the organizations. We have a budget from the Student Ac­
. tivities office to pay for posters and ads. In the overall organization ofSt. Joseph county, 95/ goes to the or­ganizations and 5/ goes into over­head costs. The whole organization is volunteer except for two people, so the costs are kept pretty. low. 

reader reaction to "Second Life." 
Most of it has been positive, al­though one female reviewer took her to task for leaving a husband who proved so supponive during her illness, expressing regret that "her moral fiber is not up to the quality ofher writing." 
For Stephani Coo~ morality has to do with making courageous deci­sions, determining what can be trusted, learning to take -rather than relinquish -control ofone's life. 
"It is easy to forget that cancer is not so much death as life gone monstrous and out of control," she wrote. 
Second Life is a reminder of that --and of other things wonh remembering. 
Q: How-is the money ailocated among tbe different organiza­tions? 
A: (Orie) I believe it's allocated within the city. Different organiza­tions will apply for a cenain amount offunds. The United Way chapter in South Bend distributes it on the basis oforganizational size and how much funding they required in the 
past. 
• • Soviets 

continuedfrom page 1 
-
tafsson added. 
Swedish officials dismissedilie · Soviet skipper's claims that the in­trusion was an accident, saying it took highly skilled maneuvering I through difficult waters to get the sub into the area where it is stuck, · just off Sweden's southeastern coast. 
sw"edish and Soviet authorities·, negotiated on the conditions for a Swedish inspection ofthe sub and an interrogation of its skipper, but no ~esults were announced. 
I 
,.....--......................-iM,. Rocco's Hair Styling 1, 531 N. Michigan St.,! 
Ii South Bend 
I 
! Phone-233-4957: 1ft
·IL.......,,auouau•""""-''""'ua"""""'""--.1 
SAU¥S 
SitliBill 
18473 EDISON ROAD (ODIIHIII or EotsoN AND IVY, NEAR Sovnt BEND Avz.) 
-NEEDLEWORK FOR THE DESICNINC WOMAN.. FEATURING THE FINEST IN: 
NEEDLEWORK ** FINISHING PAITERNS ** ** BLOCKING FRAMING FABRICS
** ** CANVAS YARNS ** *CUSTOM DESIGNING BY LOCAL ARTISTS* *GIFTS FOR CHRISTMAS* 
2n.,fd3 
CLASSES IN: GRAND OPENING SALE: 
N-.-...rr, CouN"m> C,..._Snrcn, W...-rs 10% OFF ON ALL STOCK 
C.urv.u, CMwa., ~rrrtNo, CIIOCHEllNc 5 °/o MORE WITH THIS FL YERI 

The Amos Tuck School 
of 
Business Administration 
Dartmouth College • Hanover, N.H. 
Men and Women Seeking Graduate Education for Management are invited to discuss the 
TUCK MBA 
Thursday, November 12 
Scott Settle, Assistant Director of Admissions 
Check with the Placement Office Administration Bldg., Room 213 • 283-8342 

---------------·----­The Observer Monday, November 2, 1981 -page 5 
--------·-----·­
After 'quick fix' 
Shuttle ready for launch 

CAPE CANAVERAL, FLA. ( AP) --A $2 million, quick-fix water system --designed to keep span: shuttle Columbia from being damaged hy its own launch-pad shockwaves --was hooked up Sunday during a countdown notahle mostly for its smoothness. 
Space agency oftkials remained optimistic ahout a Wt"dnesday liftoff. despitt" temperamt"ntal weather conditions. Tile mission --a spaceship's first return to orhit -­is scht.·dulnl to last H.'\ revolutions, or five days, four hours and I 0 minutes. 
The Columbia is making its second test trip into space and NASA engineers have worked for six months to apply lessons learned from Columhia's April 12-14 maiden mission. 
The expensive shock absorber will flush 400,000 gallons ofwater in 35 seconds into the shuttle's launch exhaust. It was designed hastily over the past five months to correct the most significant problem enccoun­krt:d in the April flight. Though t-he inaugural launch looked flawless, in­spections six weeks later rt"vcaled that five struts, supporting two fud tanks. were ht·nt. 
Engineers blamed shockwaves houndng hack from the launch pad when the shuttle's rocket boostt:rs ignitt"d at four times the t.·xpt"cted pressure --far beyond the design limits. 
During the weekend, Columbia's second countdown went forward without a hitch. The ships' windows 
were cleaned, its rockets wert· pronounced ready ("closed out for flight") and officials had only the Cape's unprt.·dictable crosswinds and cloud-prone skies to worry about. 
"Not cvt·n the bt"st engineer can tlx tht.· weather," said Roland Raah of the National Space and Aeronautics Administration. 
At tht.· Johnson Space Ccntn in Houston, astronauts Joe Engle and Richard Truly spent Sunday review­ing their t1ight plan. Colleen Truly went to work at her hospital nursing joh and Mary Catherine Engle was pat·king for the family's trip to Cape Canavt.·ral. 

Engle's 19-yt"ar-old son, jon, unahlc to get an excused absence 
from his midterm exams at the Uni­versity of Kansas, will comt.· to Florida at the last minute while the rest of the families travd on a NASA plane on Monday, a spokesman said. 
NASA's Sunday report of launch pad activities containi.'d no surprist.·s. 
"The space shuttle countdown continut.·s on schedult.-," the agt.·ncy said. "Almost all activitit's schnlult.-d to he tlnished bdorc the start of the 

tlrst  huilt-in  hold  in  the  ~-~·hour  
countdown  have  already  heen  
tlnishl'd."  

The "hold" --an eight-hour period when the countdown clocks art" stopped and pad workers go home to rest --was at j p.m. on Sunday. 

SMC-Surveys done on Tuesday ln . Dining hall. 
R_~SMC-ND STUDENTS ~ SUMMER PROGRAMS 
LONDO May IS-June 17 
with travel in Ireland, Scotland and France 
KQME: June IS-July 14 
with travel in France, German_y and Switzerland 
Classes auailable in: ··business ··philosophy ··history ··theatre ··Sociology 
Informational meeting: Nou. 4 7 pm Rm. 131 Moreau, SMC 
All Wekome 
For more info. contact: "Prof. Black at 284-4948 or 272-3726 


Roos lectures 
Workshop outlines Plunge 
By MARGARET HANK and KELU FLINT 
.Vt•u•s Staff 
<iovt·rnmt.·nt Proft.·ssor John Roos 
was tht.· ti.:aturt.·d spt.·aker at an llrhan 
Plungt.· orientation work~hop yt"s­
lt.·nlay aftt.·rnoon in tht.· library 
auditorium t(,r tht.· 552 students 
who applied for tht· llrhan Plunge 
program. 
Roos rt.·plan·d schnlulnl t spt.·aker 
.\lonsignor John J Egan, Director of 
tht.· Center t(,r Pastoral and Social 
\liniMry, who could not attend tilt" 
workshop hccmst.· of a throat ail­
ment. 
Tlw purpose of the worbhop is t(,r swdents to receive a tim11al in­trodudion to various aspens of the program through lt.-cturcs explain­ing tht.· histol)' of the program , its rl'lalt"d courses, responsibilities and ~ite contacts. 
Roo~ discussed the social makeup ofcities. noting tht.· high pt·n:cntage of minoritks in innn-city schools. 
Roos t·mphasiznl the satislitction 
t.·xpnit.-ncnl hy pcoplt.-commitnl to 
social ministry. adding that those 
pcoplt.-who live and work as Jesus 
did arc "truly happy". 
<:l"llll"f for 1-:xpt.·rit.-ntial Learning l>irt.Ttor 1-r. l>on .\lcNdll olkrnl a hrid hhtory of the plunge. tracing it~ origin to ;t visit to \lonsignor l:gan's parish in <:hil'ago. 
Formn plunge participants ,\lary _lane \lurray and John l'atrick Revord presented a studcnt perspective on the plunge. 
\lurr;ty notnl that stullt'llls often han· rt·~t-rvations about tht.· plunge, adding that she also had rcscrvations hut linmd the ·IH-hour immersion a lwndkialeXJWrit·ntT 
Revord advised sttu.knt~ not to arrivt.· at 1hdr plunge sitt.·s with prcumcl'ivnl notions ami en­couragnl thn11 to "hang loose" during their stay. 
The program i., tlt.-signnl to expose student~ ((, new situations dealing with urhan life in various cities. "It i~ a ·IH-hour livt·-in t."XJX-ricnct.• 
with peopk working for so<.:ial justice in the innn-city," commt.·nts Regina Weissert. llrhan Plunge Coordinator. 
The agenda each student t(,llows will dctermint.· which ofthe 60 cities 
throughout  the country  the  par­ 
ticipant will visit.  
"Among  other  things  students  

may sec an inner-city jail, an t.•mt.·r­gt'lll")' rdidshdtn. a center for hat­
ternl womt.·n or have the chance to 
see an actual court situation," 
Wdsscrt said. 
"They will also he given thl· op­portunity to talk to people con­cernnl with alleviating the problems of the communitv." 
The program takt.·s place on two days during the wn·k of Jan. 3. Gennally, students will reside in convents or rectories in groups of four to seven people. 
Congress eyes steps to balance budget 
WASIIIN<iTON (ap) 
Congress. not in a mood to raist.· 
taxes in IIJH2. will han· to come up 
with a massive new tax in I'JH:'>-H-1 
or perhaps dday the Il-l bomber or 
\IX missile, Senate Financc Commit­
tt.'l' Chairman Rohnt Dolt-said Sun­
day. 
"We're going to have to han· some massive (spcnding) ntb or somt· massin· (tax) itKrcascs" to ful­tlll Presidcnt Reagan's promise of a 
halan<.:nl ft.·tkral budget in 19H-I, Dolt.-, R-Kan.. ~aid on NBC's ".\lt-ct the Prt·ss" program. 
l>omcst ic programs such as f()()d stamp~ and school lunches cannot absorb much more in· cuts. Dole said. In response to a question. he said putting oil 1he B-I bombn am\ .\IX missilt.---the backholll· of Reagan's ddi.:nsc buildup --is "a 
ED WAY STUDENT CAMPAIG from Sunday Nov. 1 to Sunday Nov. 8 Collections in all dorms by section leaders 

Student fair share $2.00 
"Notre Dame is a carin!( place" 
possibility, particularly on the B-I " 
Dole said ht" is hct:oming more convinced that there will not he any tax increase in the 19H2 tiscal year which began Oct. I. 
"I haven't ruled out any tax in­crease in 19H2, but the prospt.·Cls are rather dim," ht.· said. "It's more and more diftlc t ult to gt.·t any consensus on increasing taxes. starting with the Prt·sidcnt. I might add, on down." 
White !louse spokesman David Gngt.·n said Saturday that Reagan has nut accepted the conclusions that higher taxes arc nt·ccssary or that the administration will not he ahil' to balance tht· budgd by I'>H-1. 
Treasury Sccrt.·tal)' Donald Regan conceded Sunday that IIJH2 tax rnTnuc~ will he lower than what the administration anticipated but said he is still opposed to any tax in­crease this year. 
------~--~~~­ ---­ ~-­ -­ 

 ~~-··-·­--­.. ­ -­--···--··­----­ 

Monday, November 2, 1981 -page 6
FeatureS 
-~---------~-------~--~---..---~-.oEa~.~·~ ....-...:.,..,.......,_,.......,..,_.,-''"·..---'l:o:l~c.::....,• ..e~;r~...·o-lli'":;.>CO'::'~'.~.._,.,.,~y ...~"--~==·-·~========================== 
------------------~-~------~1:_~-~-----......-.--,~-.-...c.--...;..r ...1.-...-.."DDr'""!"'ll:l,..,..~ ·~-.-"'"'"'""""'''•""'.l 

Auditorium. They are pictured here infront ofthe Grotto. 
Glee Oub to perform tonight 
T 
he University ofNotre Dame presents the Glee Club. At 8: IS tonight, at Saint Mary's ()'Laughlin Auditorium, the Glee Club presents its f~ll concert. This 
By Tim Farrel 
free event notes the 6Sth anniversary of the Glee Club, and the 2Sth year ofO'Laughlin Auditorium's existence. Also, this performance marks a "homecoming" ofsorts for Director Carl Starn and the Glee Club. 
The Glee Club is returning from recent engagements in Washington, D.C., Philadelphia, Pittsburgh, and Chicago. Tonight's concert will feature the musical numbers performed on those tours. 
The first group ofsongs arc original Greek and Ger­man classics. A selection oflighter and more humorous tunes, such as Ching-A-Ring-Chaw I Bought Me a Cat, will preempt a barber shop quartet sequence. The Vic­tory March and Alma Mater will conclude the perfor­mance. 
Future events for the Glee Club include an appearance on the Bob Newhart Thanksgiving Special, a Christmas concert on December I I, and caroling at women's dormitories. 
For a refreshing evening, attend this concert. As Director Starn says, "I'm looking forward to it." 

Second Scene produces play 
L 
uigi Pirandello'sSix Charac­Betsy Quinn, who played the regular audience seat. ters in Search ofan Author, DAUGHTER, and Bridget Dolan, Besides being invisible, performed this past weekend to a who was the Italian bordello D'alessandro wasn't doing much of small crowd in Washington Hall, is proprietor MADAME PACE, were anything in those scenes. It a play which contains parts of an­the stars ofthe show. Quinn is an ex­seemed like he was waiting to other play. The play within is the cellent actress. Her presence is felt throughout. She has many different deliver his next line. And his next By Elizabeth Blakey smiles which were believably lines, such as "Enough of this ram­smiled in just the right places. Her bling" came out rehearsed rather expressions were perfect during the than annoyed and authoritative as
tragic story ofa family ofsix Father's speeches, as during the ac­they should have been.
characters. The play itself, 
tors' attempt to play her scene. At
however, is the story of those six D'alessandro,though, warmed
times, It truly seemed she was
characters searching for an author up as the play progressed. He
suppressing a laugh. Bridget Dolan
to give them meaing. became an Oscar Madison type
as the "ladies lady" was great, and
Piranddlo's play opens rather and the timing ofhis one-liners of
she stole the show. Her Italian ac­
abruptly, without a curtain rise. the third act was exact. Dunlap, on 
cent was so good that I didn't under­
The stage is empty. A manager and the other hand, didn't really come
stand a word. The screaming exit
some actors arrive and begin to through. His voice, like the actors' 
was unbeatable. It was the funniest
rehearse. The audience:: on Friday laughter, was forced and affected. 
move in the show.
night did not immediately know In contrast to Quinn's versatility, 
that the play had begun. The Dunlap did the:: same:: hand to chin
The partsofthe FATHER, played
audience continued talking for a pose whc::nevc::r he gave a
byJames R Dunlotp,Jr., and ofthe 
minute before:: realizing this. This is monotone speech.
DIRECTOR, playc::d by Greg
deliberate::, for Pirandello's begin­
D'alessandro, were less satisfac­
ning is supposed to be slowly Most ofall I disliked Bosco's en­
tory. I think the stage direction 
noticed. The playersin the produc­ding. She had the:: six come back
which called for the FATHER to sit 
tion properly handled the opening. out on stage after the play should 
on the edge of the stage whe11 
"The rehearse::!" had barely have ended, and stand under the::
talking to the:: DIRECTOR at his 
begun when suddenly, from the green again. The Pirandello ending
dc::sk, was a good idea. But it wasn't 
side exit, the six characters ap­was actually like:: the beginningand
carried through. His position there 
pc::ared. The lighting device used the intermission: odd and uncer­

should have lent an air ofshared 
here:: for their entrance was both tain. When the shot rings out and creative and apt. The:: charactc::rs confidc::nce between him and the stood still in a family picture type director. Instead. it was unnatural, everyone scatters cryingout about pose for a few moments while an rc::peated too often and not under­death and pretense, the audience is eerie green light was shone on stood. Not understood because the supposed to be left wondering them. The effect was a transforma­director was not visible to the what happened, how can a time­tion ofthe characters into strange audience. I had to strain to see him less being have died, and if this waxen figures -quite appropriate below the stage and over the heads strange play is over. Bosco added a for a group ofsuch, as we later of the audience. I think it would completion which contradicts the learned, uncertain realness. have been better were he in a purpose and text ofthe author. 
Leave sports quips up to the viewer 
T
he announcers ofsports events on television and radio fail to un 
derstand that those of us who watch or listen enjoy having a 
thought ofour own about the game occasionally. It's hard to think 
while you're listening, and all of us wish they'd shut up once in a 
while. There is simply no need to tlll the air, wall-to-wall, with words. 
The wor~t recent development is the pre-recorded interview. 
They're using them on both radio and television. They'll talk to a 
dozen of the players a couple ofdays before the game and then, 
during the game, dredge up snippets of the interviews at what the 
producer ofthe show thinks is an appropriate time. You're sitting at 
home, enjoying a play you've just seen and considering what will 
happen next, and suddenly you have an old interview thrust upon 
you. Ifquarterback Craig Morton throws a touchdown pass and 
you're savoring the action, the technicians flash a still picture ofMor­
~~~~~;J~i~ ~~) ~~;~~~i ~;~~~ ~ t ;~:~:~::::::::j~~~:::~:*::t~:::~lll:::t::~:~~:~:~::::~I:~~t:;t:m:~t:~::~:~:::;;;:?r~:j:n:~:~:~:~:~:::::~~j:::::j:~:::::: 
something that doesn't inter-

Andy Rooney 
est you at all for the moment. 

Asports fan wants to add his -------------­
own color comments to the 
game. He doesn't want to be 

spoon-fed. I enjoy Monday Night Football but I'd be just as happy if 
they didn't have anyone announcing the game except Frank Gifford. 
For the most part, he just tells you what's happening and fills in some 
things you might not have known or noticed. I sort oflike Don 
Meredith, but I certainly wish he and Cosell would not feel so 
obliged to earn their pay by talking nonstop. 
The other night I listened to the first five innings ofthe first World Series game on my car radio. I got home to watch the last four in­nings on television. CBS Radio had Yin Scully doing the play-by-play and Sparky Anderson, the Detroit's Tigers' manager, doing the color commentary. For Detroit's sake, I hope this road-company Casey Stengel is a better manager than an announcer. He's sort ofthe il­
literate listener's Howard Cosell. He talks as if he knows a lot about 
baseball, but all he ever gives us is cliche'after cliche'. I sometimes 
suspect that's all there is to know about basebalL 
lfa businessman goes.to a foreign country, he often studies the lan­
guage so he at least knows the basics. IfCBS is going to pay Anderson 
to announce the games, he might pay us the courtesy of taking a 
crash course in English at Berlitz before he does it again. Stengel 
makes himselfa folk hero with his fractured English, but there was 

often a kernel ofwisdom buried somewhere in his sc::ntencc::s that 
made them worth translating. There's no gold hidden anywhere in Sparky Anderson's pigeon English. Most ofit is meaningless any way you say it. 
"A club that's winning don't have no problems," he said. He always uses the word "club" instead of"team." That's basc::ball expertise, I guess. 
About the Yankc::es and Dodgers, he said, "Both these:: teams are ve.ry professional as far as the Big Leagues is concerned." When someone threw a bottle at a Dodger outfielder, Dodger manager Tommy Lasorda came out on the field. "I know Tommy good enough, so he don't let nobody throw no bottles at his player.:.' Sparky ali-Americanized. 
Whc::n Lasorda left a wild pitcher in the game while the hurler walked a man with the:: bases loaded, Sparky said, "Tommy done a great thing there." I couldn't figure out why it was a great thing, but Sparky said it would give the pitcher experience next time he was in that situation. 
After four innings with the score 4-0 in favor ofthe Yankees, he said, "It's gonna be a great series." Shortly after that, he said, ''I'd say the Dodgers have to get some runs on the board in the fifth or sixth inning." 
''I'm glad I seen some ofthe game on the TV last night but it don't look like nobody's gonna beat them Yankees which was so hot with their bats and fielding." 
l

Sports Briefs 
Monday, November 2, 1981 -page 7 
II\ I"" rJlist·n·,·r .111d llw 1.\st" illft'tll'r<'ss 
The Observer-Landon Tumer Fund will 
lwndlt from a dinner and talk hy Indiana baskt·thall coach Bobby Knight. Turnl'r, tht· lloosil'r~'s star forward. wa~ Idt paralyzed by an auto atTidl'nt in July. Til'kl'tS for the dinnl'r, which is !0 hl' held at the Cl'ntury Centl'r. art· SSO. The talk is schnlulcd ti>r the ;\;!orris Civic Auditorium on the samt· night, .\londay. Novl'mhcr lJ. Admis­sion b S I() ti>r adult~ and SS for studl'nts. Tickets are available at The ()bserl'l'l' oftkt·s on till" third floor of LaFortune. Donations for the fund arc always wdconn·. Makl' chl'cks payabk to The Observcr­Landon Turner Fund, P.O. Box Q, Notrt· Dame, Ind. 46SS6-Tbe 
( JIJserl.'er 
The Off-Campus hockey team is organizing. ln­tcrl'stl'd OC men should sign up at the NVA oflltT ( C-2 ACC) or call (>I 00. -The ( JbSI!I'I'I!t' 
Three lawyerS from New York City will bl' panelists for a Sports and Entl'rtainml'llt Law Forum to bl' held at Notre Dame's Ct·ntq. ti>r Continuing Education Friday. Thl' morning session will run from I 0 a.m. to 12 noon, and the afternoon session from 2-4 p.m. Tht· thrl'e pandists will be St·ynHlur Peyst·r, Richard Zahnd and Sid­m·y Bluming, all of whom an· specialists in this expanding field of law. Peyser has served as vice-president of and gent:ral council to llnitt·d Artists Corporation. Zahnd is <ieneral Council to Madison Squan· Garden Corporation, the company that owns and opnates tht· New York Knicks and Rangers. Bluming once represented the Nt·w York Yankees. -The Observer 
Referees are needed ror interhall hasketbatt. tn­tt·resteu men and women should contact the NVA office ( C-2 ACC) at 6 I 00. -The Observer 
The Notre Dame men's crew team will 
hold a brief. mandatory mt·eting tonight at ""p.m. in the Lafortune Littk Theatt:r. All varsity and novict· oarsmt·n should attend. Wintt·r workouts and spring t·oaching will be discussed. -Tbe Obsen•er 
The ND-SMC racing ski team will hold an or­
ganizational meeting Thursday at H p.m. in the Lafortune Littk Theatn. All ND-SMC students who wish to race this }Tar, includin'g any nt·w members, must be present. A presentation 'will he. made concerning the trip to Colorado at the end of Christmas break. Anyone interested hut unahk to attend the meeting should call ont· ofthe captains-Barry Tharp (I S70 ), Nancy Shdt ( 4 l--ll)l)6) or Sue Hull ( 1674) -sometime this week ti>r more informa(lon. -The Obsen•er 
In their final home appearance this season. 
Rich Hunter's Notre Dame soccer team recorded a 1-0, uouhk­overtime shutout of Wright State. Sami Kahak scored his fourth 'game-winning goal of the season on a penalty-kick with S: ll) remain­ing in the first overtime to give the Irish their I Sth win ofthe season. Kahak's goal, his 12th, tku him with Rob Snyder for the team kad iQ goal-scoring, and moved him into sole possession ofsecond place on the all-time goal-scoring charts behind Kevin Lovejoy. Kahak is tied also with senior Ed O'Malley for the team kat.! in game-winning goals. Senior goaltender John Milligan registered his tenth win and 
his second shutout of the season hy turning aside six \X' right State shots. Next action for the Irish will come Thursday afternoon on the road against the Falcons of Bowling Green State llnivnsity. -Tbe Obsl!l'l'l!r 
FOOTBALL 

Saturday'a Game Navy 0 0 0 0 0 Notre Dame 14 14 3 7 38 
Scoring NO-Bla11 K1el 1-yard run (Harry Oliver kick) NO-Joe Howard 13-yard run (Oliver kick) NO-Tony Hunter 27-yard pass from K1ei(Oiiver 
OICk) 
NO-Howard 52-yard pass lrom K1ei(Oiiver k1ck) NO-Oliver 37-yard FG NO -Larry Monarty 20-yard pass from T1m Koegel (Oliver k1ck) 
Navy NO F1rst downs 5 21 Rush1ng attempts 37 46 Net Yards Rush1ng 36 193 Net Yards Pass1ng 87 249 Passes camp-attempted 10-18 15-27 Had Intercepted 0 0 Total Net Yards 123 442 Fumbles-lost 2-1 3-1 Penall1es-yards 3-40 8-59 
Punts-average 11-29 3 4-39 5 Individual Leadero RUSHING-Navy Meyers 18-39. McCallum 4­
21. Clouse 2-3. Jackson 2·2: Tarqu1n1o 2-m1nus 7, Pagnanelh 9-mlnus 22 Notre Dame. Carter 11-55, Brooks 5-38: Smith 6-27: Morns 3-20, Bell 6-16. Sweeney 3-14. Howard 1-13. K1et 8·7. Adell 1-5. Grooms 1·0. Mosley 1-mmus 2 
PASSING -Navy Pagnanelli 9-14-0. 83. Tar­qUiniO t-3-0. 4. Kern 0-1-0.0 Notre Dame. K1el 13· 23·0. 225. Koegel2·4·0. 24 
RECEIVING -Navy:• Meyers 2·11, Papa(ohn 2·11. Yelder 1·22. Mitchell 1-17: McCallum 1-14 Jackson t -6. Skehan 1-4: Clouse 1·2 Notre Dame Howard 5-115, Hunter 4-82. Carter 2-12: Monarty I­
20. Bell 1-9. Sweeney 1· 7: Buchanan 1-4 Altendance-59.075 
NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE NATIONAL CONFERENCE 

Eaat  
w  L  T  Pet.  PF  PA  
Dallas  7  2  0  778  214  181  
Ph1ladelph1a  7  2  0  778  197  129  
NY G1ants  5  4  0  .556  171 147  
St LOUIS  3  6  0  333  179  251  
Washington  3  6  0 .333  177 212  

See BOARD, page 9 

The Observer w111 accept class1fieds Mon­day through Fnday, 10 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. However. class1fieds to appear 1n lhe next 1ssue must be rece1ved by 3 p.m. the business day pnor to insertion. All class1f1eds must be prepaid, 
e1ther tn person or through t:1e matl.
Classifieds 
REWARD'!! t-<AS ANYONE SEEN A
r-·.._NOTICEs-! 
LITTLE BROWN MOUSE NAMED 
-.. ________J 
HEMAN VERMIN IN THE VICINITY OF 
' -~o"R ·;;;;:i."E--1 
CARROLL? GOES WILD TO THE BEAT 
USED BOOK SHOP HOURS WED . 
I. ...._,__ -------·-.. ··--______!
OF JUMPIN JACK FLASH IF SEEN
SAT. SUN 9·7 CASPERSON. 1303 
PLEASE CALL 4709 IMMEDIATELY 
BUCHANAN AD NILES 
COUCHES $30 and up. CHAIRS $5 and LOST AE·1 CANON CAMERA DURING up. Call Mrs. Cooper at 272-3004 after 12 OVERSEAS JOBS · Summer/year USC WEEKEND IF FOUND PLEASE noon Free delivery to dorm round Europe. S Amer Austraha. As1a CALL2968 REWARD!!!
Allllelds $500·$1200 monlhly Sightsee­
Ing Free 1nlo Wnte IJC. Box 52-IN-4. Corona Del Mar. CA 92625 
------·-·--· ---------·------l 
TYPING--Only $ 65 a page Call Dan. 
FOR RENT
f
272·5549. before 9 PM 
"-------------·' 

TYPING SERVICE call684·4125 Penn St. tiCket wanted please call Donna at6771 UGLY DUCKLING RENT A CAR. FROM 
$7.95 A DAY & WEEKEND SPECIALS AVAILABLE CALL 259-8459 
,----------:1 
I need 2 Georg1a Tech GA·s lor my parents. Please call Ann at 80381!
I LOST/FOUND 1 ---------------,
L -------· HELP!!! I'LL DEFINITELY KILL MYSELF 
[ WANTED 
IF I DONT GET SEVERAL GEORGIA whoever found a calculator and EPHYS 
TECH GAS!I!I! PLEASE SAVE MY LIFE­book (Streetman) 1n room 212 cushing 
--·-·-...... .. --·--·-····--_____j 
··CALL 1009 PLEASE call m1ke at 8598 substantial 
WHO IS GOING TO COLUMBUS. OHIO
rewardII!!! 
FOR NOV 6 WEEKEND? I 
I need 1 GA llcketlo G. Tech. Please call 
DESPERATELY NEED A RIDE! CALL
To the person who accidentally m1stook J1m at 8046 
MIKE AT 3213. 
my wallet tor h1s 1n the men s lockeroom of 
the Rockne Memonal. I would be eternally . Mom & Dad want to see Georg1a Tech grate· lul1l you would return it. I know that game. Need 2 GAs Call Sue 6903 the extra money IS very use-ful but please Want to buy p1x from Barry Man~low con­
understand that I w11l not have another cert. Call after 5 p.m. 234-5398 Need IlK lor Penn State Call Stan. 3006 or dollar ttll Chnstmas break II you can·t hnd 3008. . 11 1n your heart to return the money. I AIDE NEEDED TO LONG ISLAND FOR would apprec1ate 1111 you would return my THANKSGIVING!! CAN LEAVE AS EAR­GROUCHY FAMILY HAS NEVER BEEN I 0 so at least Ill be able to eat ··---Thank LY AS MONDAY AFTERNOON WILL TO GAME Need 5 GEORGIA TECH GAs you K1160 SHARE USUAL CALL PHIL AT 8278 Call Chris 232-21;>49 $$$ 
lost Account1ng book. NO NAME I NEED 2 GAs lor Geog1a Tech lor V1S1I1ng
AIDE NE!'OED TO LIMA. COLUMBUS.
INSIDE 1 In a class on the second floor of parents. Call the Madman. John E. at 
OR FINDLAY OHIO WEEKEND OF NOV
the bUSiness bUilding. REWARD. ONE 8437 cause I gets lots of MONEY. Th1s 
6-8 CALL MARK 3243
CASE.BUD SCOTT 2153 advertisement courtesy of the 714 Club DESPERATELY NEED llckets to PSU game Will buy outnght and/or trade lor a nde to PSU Call Fran at 4385 after 6PM 
For Sale. 211K to ND-A11 Force game Call Ann~e at 2785 
DON T SELL YOUR GEORGIA TECH TICKET'I!I! Donate 11 to send a Logan Center ch1ld to lhe game Tickets w1ll be collected this week 1n the D1n1ng Halls Off-campus students can drop them off at the Student Activ111es Office--2nd floor LaFortune 
FOR SALE. 2 GAs tor GA Tech. Best of­fer. Call E1leen 5824(SMC) 

~_______________, 
Two wrongs DON'T MAKE A RIGHT 
UNITED WAY UNITED WAY UNITED WAY GIVE YOUR FAIR SHARE NOV.I-8. 
The Sail D1ps are com1ng' The Salt D1ps are com1ng! Prem1ering Nov. 7 
EXPERIENCED TYPIST WILL DO TYPING. CALL 287-5162. 
GOLLEE!! Country Mus1c Festival!! HOOOEEEEE!!! Get senous-·bnng back the Blues Fest1val. You saps don 1 know 
whal you re miss1ng Happy 21st B11thday M1cn~"' Jl Now you re legal (But that never STOPPED you belore) M&D&S&S 

JUNIPER PRESS announces the sale ol 
the new MOLARITY book. DON'T MAKE A RIGHT, now ava1lable 1n the Bookstore Also. meet author and campus per­sonality M1chael Mohnellt at a spectal Autograph Party thiS Monday. lrom 3.30 to 5 p m 1n the Nazz. the basement of LaFortune II you m1ssed the last book. or the last autograph party. that s wrong And two wrongs DON'T MAKE A RIGHT. 
Summer Program• lor SMC & NO stu­dents. London (May 18 -June 17) w1th travel tn Ireland. Scotland. and France Rome (June 15 · July 14) with travel 1n France. Germany. and Swttzerland Courses 1n Busmess. Htstory. Philosophy. Sociology. and Theater Meet1ng Wed. Nov 4. 7 PM 1n Am 232 Moreau. St Mary s. For tnformatlon call Prol A A Black 41·4948 or 272-3726 as at home 
JESUIT VOLUNTEER CORPS REPRE­SENTATIVE TO RECRUIT AT NOTRE DAME ON TUESDAY. NOV 3 IN V S 0 
1.5 LAFORTUNE 9 30 · 4 30. SMC STU­DENTS JVC REP TO RECRUIT IN LEMANS HALL SAME DAY 
Helpllll I need three (3) G.A.'a lor the Georgia Tech game. If you can help, call Tnte816784. 
SENIORS: Applications lor SENIOR WEEK CHAIRMAN and SENOR FEL­LOW CHAIRMAN are now available 1n the student activ1t1es oH1ce All are en­couraged to apply FIGHT POLLUTION-RIDE A MOOSE. 
Ted Ozark Mountain Bluedevll Caahln: 
How the heck is that arm of yours? Maybe you can get il CAST in a play or some­thing?... (sick. huh?) 
HIGRANTIII 
YOU MAKE IT HAPPEN• GIVE TO UNITED WAY NOV I -8 FAIR SHARE $2 00 OR MORE SEE YOUR SECTION LEADER 
Kath. thanks lor every1h1ng You te a great room1e ZD 
ATTN PAUL MORRIS You re so funny. bul so are most ES­KIMOS (funny-lookmg. tool HAl HA!) I owe you one ZD 
Oemse Atvard. 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY to the best lookmg 
UMOC we know (Even tho you did get 
more votes than Tnpucka) Hope 11 was 
happy' 
Love. K.Mup.Specs.Brenda & Pam 
To the man from Darby·s who once satd. 
1 may be easy but I m not cheap!' does that mean that your pnces are nego­llable? I hear that Slovaks are great lovers From an adm1rer and more. 
... 
RIDERS NEEDED -To Des M01nes or along 1-80 West Leav1ng Thursday. Nov. 
5. at 1 00 p.m. and returning on Sunday Call John at 65~ 0. 
WANTED Part-T1me Wa1tress. Apply 1n person ONLY lrom 12 to 7PM 130 01xieway S. Soulh Bend SHANGHAI RESTAURANT 

UNITED WAY STUDENT DRIVE . 
begins soon • • 

w 0 '0 ; ;"' !l a ~ >-E t; c: ~ .c: 
'!;! .. ·= c g. -a, c: >-'ii ~ :,; :::;; z :; c: :::;; ~ 0 u ~ ~ " ·c t.E 'E 'b .;
E .. 'C" .c: c " _:j ~ '6 ·c .8.., ~ 
0 ~ ] " .. -~ ~ "' ~ :.t " _:j .. :; "' ~
~ :2 u.. .... 0::" 1.) " :; 0 c: ~ .7! ~
" oa II. ~ ~ :I: .)';
< ~ u :::;; 'E
< c: w :,; l 
~ ~ ·:::;; " 
"~ ~ .£ " 
oa i
i i II. 
The Observer-Sports Monday, November 2, 1981 -page 8 
• • • Andree 

continuedfrompage 12 
This is not the first injury to 

plague the junior center. 
"It seems like I just can't get a 

break," Andree said. "Sunday, I had 
finally gotten my back into shape, 
and Ifinally felt it was I00 percent. 
"Two days after the coaches first 

told me I was going to start, I tore 
up the other ankle. Then my back 
went out. Now this happens. I just 
don't know." 
No one seems to know the exact 

timetable for Andree's return to ac­
tion. He is slated for extensive tes· 
ting today. He estimated last night 
that his ankle would remain in a 
cast for two weeks, and after a 
medical evaluation, the rehabilita­
tion period would begin. 

"I may not he I00 percent," he 
said, "hut I should be ready to play 
by the St. Joe's game." 

In the meantime, Phelps has filled the center slot with 6-9 soph· omore Cecil Ruckn. He finished out Friday's practice as the center, · and played the post position again 
in Saturday's scrimmage. 
"We saw a lot of things we liked Saturday morning," said Phelps. "John Paxson played great, but that's becoming routine. Mike Mitchell and Dan Duff also played especially well." 
The scrimmage was open to the public, and nearly S400 were col· leered for the Observer-Landon Turner Fund. Coupled with the SI SO donated at Friday night's pep rally, the scrimmage made the weekend the Fund's most profitable to date. 
• Hockey 

At Saturday's Navy game, the ND marching band dazzled fans with their trumpet and saxophone soloes. (photo by Carlj. Frus­hon) 

The Features Page Ifeeds Writers 
Human Interest, Culture, Humor, Satire and'. General Interest Music, Book, ~ Theater Reviews -Also we are looking for a Weekend/Entertainment Columnist 

An_yone interested contact: Anthony Walton at 1715 
continuedfrom page 12 
notched a goal at 4:21! by blasting a shot from the left circle past fresh­man goalie Bruno Campese. 
Wildcat Dave Smith got . the equalizer six minutes later by pick­ing up a loose puck in the Irish zone and be..ting Laurion with almost an Irish beat Laurion with almost the an identical identical shot. 
Northern Michigan struck for two goals in the second period on a shor­thanded goal by Mogush and a powerplay goal by Bruce Martin. The thought of those two important goals left Smith visibly upset. 
"We coughed up a shorthanded goal and a powerplay goal and that's just what they needed. It was a mat· ter of their players taking advantage ofthe situation and our players not." 
John Deasey, a freshman from Edina, Minnesota, scored his first career goal midway through the third period to bring the Irish within one, but that was as close as they would get. Consistent pressure and an exciting last minute flurry left the Irish fans on their feet, but Campese just stymied the Irish at every turn. In all, Campese stopped 44 shots in what had to be the performance of the game. 
"They had good overall quick­
............................. ...........
~ 

•
~ The Observer
•
• needs
+ 
:• Fre.shmen 
: and
* ­
·sophomores

i
+
+ 
interested in

t
:f Computer Typesetting 
• (nO experience neCeSSary) 
i + 
Call Bruce 1715 

+ 
t p •d p "f .IQ N• ht W kl r14 6 H 
• 
ness, but their goaltenders really hurt us. Luckily we escaped the series without any injuries, so we'll 
have to get the wins hack next 
week." 
The Irish travel to Kalamazoo this week to face Western Michigan, a team that split its weekend series with Michigan Tech. It will be anoth· er early season test for Notre Dame since Broncos sport a 2-2·0 league record and return I7 lettermen. In the meantime, Smith will have his squad working hard to minimize the mistakes and to improve a powerplay unit that was shut out in eleven tries against Northern Michi­gan. 

i al . OSIIOn;1 ne IQ ee Y;·-rs.• West.Bothclubsare6-3. 
Cowboys

: · • · 
+ continul'dfrom page 9
•
.• but came back shortly afterward and 
ran 69 yards to give Los Angeles a 
first-quartn lead. Then, with 9:'i9

+ remaining in the game, Tyler scored 
from one yard out to lift the Rams 
from a I j.7 deficit and put them 

+ 
aead to stay.

+ 
Rolf Benirschke kicked a 22-yard••• field goal with 13 seconds remaining 


to lift the Chargers over the C:hief.~. Kansas City had taken a 20-19 lead

• 
with 6:32 remaining on a 32-yard field goal by Nick Lowery. But the 

• 
Chargers marched ""0 yards in 16


+ plays to get in pos111on for
i"'::::::::;~::~::~~:·;~::.,,
+ 
to move into a first-place tie with the 

+ 
Chiefs in the American Conference 


.........................+ ............ 
·~·Y..-.:~,~~>.aRNIIC~~)·~-3!~ 
The OBSERVER jrb FEATURES DEPART:ME,NT~1is lookingfor II FEATURE WRITERS!! ~l 
I contactGreg atl715 NOW!!~ 
L:>.a:~:~KC!(·~~)!!!JX~%-.nw..<~;~:~~c;~:~·~!t~~0J 
Touch ofClass 
DRY CLEANERS 

Special Same Day Service iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiil 
IN BY 10 -OUT BY 4 
Quality Service iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii~ Dry Cleaning & Shirt Serviceiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiil (done on premises) 
hours: mon.-fri. 7-7

10% o OFF FOR 
sat. 8-3ALL STUDENTS 

277-8868

6303 st. rd. 23 
I 

University Commons across from University Park Mall 

"WE'VE GOTA DATE NOV.19th': 
"That's when the American Cancer Society asks every smoker in America to give up cigarettes for a day. Give it a try. You might find you can quit forever:' 
THE GREAT AMERICAN 
SMOKEOUT 
American CancerSociety 
Th1s space: contributed by the publishe:r 

------------------------------------------------------------------------------~-·---------------------------~ 
The Observer -Sports Monday, November 2, ~981 page9 
• • • Board 
Cleveland al Denver continuedfrom page. 7 New Orleans at Los Angeles 
N.Y. Jets at Baltimore 
c.mr.. Pittsburgh at Seattle Minnesota 5 3 0 .625 188 199 MoncUiy'e Gam•• Tampa Bay 5 4 0 .556 163 136 
Detron 4 5 0 .444 210 190 Green Bay 3 6 0 .333 170 208 Chicago 2 7 0 222 136 218 
WNI San Francosco 7 2 0 .778 208 154 Atlanta 5 4 0 .556 263 172 NATIONAL HOCKEY LEAGUELoa Angeles 5 4 0 .556 214 193 Top 18 1_,1qUIIIIIy for pleyotr.
New Orleans 2 7 0 .222 108 204 w L T GF GA Pia Edmonton 9 4 0 71 50 18
AMERICAN CONFERENCE N.Y. Islanders 8 1 2 47 34 f8
ENI 
Philadelphia 8 2 1 48 41 17w L T Pet. PF PA Minnesota 7 2 2 48 30 16M1am1 6 2 1 .722 213 162 Monlrea! 6 1 4 65 28 16Buffalo 6 3 0 667 203 141 NY. Jets 4 4 1 .500 191 209 Boston 6 2 3 49 41 15 
Quebec 7 6 0 60 56 14 Buffalo 5 3 3 36 36 13
New England 2 7 0 .222 207 210 
Ba"omore 1 8 0 .111 158 298 Los Angeles 6 6 0 60 59 12Centrei Winnopeg 5 3 2 49 42 12C1nc1nnat1 6 3 0 .667 228 176 Pittsburgh 5 7 2 46 59 lli!
Pottsburgh 5 4 0 .556 188 175 
Vancouver 4 5 3 39 41 11
Cleveland 4 5 0 .444 163 194 Houston 4 5 0 .444 159 197 
Chicago 3 3 5 52 54 11 Detroit 4 5 2 42 46 10
Weill KanaasCny 6 3 0 667 227 185 
St. LoUIS 4 6 2 52 56 fO Toronto 3 6 2 47 51 8 Hartford 1 4 5 36 42 7
San Otego 6 3 0 .667 275 207 
Denver 5 3 0 625 154 112 N.Y. Rangers 3 8 0 31 53 6Oakland 4 5 0 444 125 150 Calgary 2 7 2 37 54 6Seattle 2 7 0 .222 126 205 
Colorado 2 7 2 30 51 6. Washongton 1 11 0 36 57 2
Yellterdlly'e R..uha same as it was a yearagq,_when Harry Oliver beat Allanta 41. New Orleans I 0 with a.5J-yura field goal as time exptred. Everything was exactly the same in the .•~ 
Slllurday'a ResultsMoamo27, Baltomore 10 
Vancouver 8, Philadelphia 4 second quarter of Saturday's game, but this time, Tim Jordon stopped It. (Photo by Rachel Blount)
Tampa Bay 20. Chicago f 0 Chicago 2. Hartford 2, toeBuffalo 22, Cleveland 13 Boston 7, N.Y. Rangers 3 Conctnnalo34, Houston 21 N.Y. lslandeos 2. Montreal1N Y. Jets 26, N Y Goanls 7 Pthsburgh 3, Buffalo 1 San Francosco 17, Pittsburgh 14 Wonnopeg 6, Toronto 5 Green Bay 34, Seattle 24 Minnesota 5. Detroit 4
St. LoUis 5. Los Angeles 4 Los Angeles 20. Detrool 13 
Cowboys edge Eagles in NFC tilt
Colorado 6. Washonglon 4 San Doege 22. Kansas City 20 Edmonton 11 , Quebec 4 Oakland 27. New England 17 Washonglon 42, Sf Louts 21 Ye81erdey'a ResultsTonlghl'e Gamea 
Boston 4, Hartford 1 defeated the Philadelphia Eagles 1 7-10 2:15 into the final quarter.
Minnesota at Denver SuncUiy, Nov. I Buffalo 6, Pholadelphoa 2 By WILLIAM R. BARNARD 14 in a key National Footall Con­After the Cowboys kicked off,
Delroot 3, Vancouver 1 
AP Sports Writer 
Delroot al Washonglon N.Y. Rangers 4, Calgary 2 ference game yesterday. Jaworski was sacked twice for losses M1amo al New England 
Chicago 9, Toronto 4 Both tc:ams are 7-2 in the National 
that moved the ball back to the
N Y Goanls vs. Green Bay al Molwaukee 
Danny White passed I 7 yards to 
Oakland at Houston Football League's NFC East and they Eagles 5. Philadelphia pumed to the 
Pholadelphoa al St. Louts Today·a\.iam•• Doug Cosbie and Tony Dorsett 
Montreal al Quebec. n meet again in Dallas Dec. 13. Eagles' 39, from where Dallas scored
Tampa Bay at M1nnesota Tomorrow'a Gamn dashed 9 yards for another touch­
Chocago al Kansas City The Eagles, after Rafael Septlen on five running plays, including the
Calgary at N.Y. Islanders, n down to highlight a fourth-period
Atlanta at San Franc1sco gave the Cowboys a 3-0 second­
Winnipeg at Colorado, n final nine by Dorseu. 
Conconnato al San Doege comeback as the Dallas Cowboys 
quaner lead, went ahead 14-3 on a In other games, Atlanta ripped 2-yard TD run by Wilbert New Orleans 41-10, Miami Montgomery and an 85-yard scoring swamped Baltimore 27-10, Tampa pass play from Ron Jaworski to wide Bay tripped Chicago .20-10, Buffalo 
receiver Harold Carmichael. defeated Cleveland 22-13, Cincin· Philadelphia had an opportunity nati beat Houston 34-21, the New 
to win or send the game into York Jets swamped the New York overtime when it drove from its 10 Giants 26-7, San Francisco nipped to a first down at the Dallas 16 with Pittsburgh 17-14, Green Bay out­
2:06 remaining. But a running play lasted Seattle 34-24, Los Angeles and two incomplete passes stalled stopped Detroit 20-1 3, San Diego the drive before barefoot kicker edged Kansas City 22-20, Oakland Tony Franklin was wide to the left stopped New England 27-17 and with a 34-yard field goal attempt that Washington outscored St. Louis 42­would have tied the game. 
21. 

Dallas took the kickoff after the Wendell Tyler scored both Rams Carmichael touchdown bomb with touchdowns as they came from be­
5:20 left in the third quarter and hind to beat the Uons. Tyler hurt his drove 75 yards in 14 plays, capped knee on the fourth play of the game 
by the TD pass from White to Cosbie See COWBOYS, page 8
that reduced the Eagles' lead to 14­

monday night film serie~ 
. . 
Monday, Novambar 2 The White lhelk Directed by Federico Fetllni, 1952 (88 min.) This early Fetlini already develops moat of the themes which he would later expand. His acid sense of fun, In· sight, and charm are completely winning. 
THE SNITE MUSEUM OF. ARt .7:30 pm adrrli$$1on $1.QO· .sponsored ~b .
mL-.SMS .~ ~MlJN!CA1I9N tk niEAJRE: 
i-!iiiiUii-i 
I [0]~ THE FUQUA SCHOOL I
I 'iilllii I
OF BUSINESS 
I I 
I I
1 A representative of the Fuqua .School of 1 
I Business will be '">n campus Friday, I
I I
November 13, 1 discuss the Duke MBA 
WEEKLY PRIZE FOR I Program. Intel ~d students may obtain I THE BEST 
I I
further infonna< · 1 by .contacting the 
NEWS/SPORTS TIP 
I Placement Burea. I8661 I I I I 


The Observer -Sports Monday, November 2, 1981 -page 10 

fortunately for lrlsb fattbjul, the Ctncmr•att Moeller product on ly needed to sit out one play. (Photo by Rachel Blount) 
Electrical Engineers Mechanical Engineers Physicists If you're ready to begin your technical career, but aren't looking forward to a 
pencil and paper pushing existence, we want to tell you about a highly unusual profession. 
Essentially, we're the people who make it possible for energy producers to evaluate the productivity of well sites. Our equipment measures resistivity, conductivity, acoustic travel time, radioactivity and various other physical characteristics of the well bore. 
As a Jr. Field Engineer, you'll undertake extensive training including supervis· ed field work and 12 weeks of classroom instruction before being promoted to Field Engineer. 
At this stage, your career adventure really begins. You'll be assigned a logging unit, crew and company car. Your generous base salary will be supplemented by monthly bonuses based on the income your work produces. Your progress will be in your hands on a job that is tough, demanding and long. But If you're Interested in accumulating real-world experience fast, there's nothing like it. 
We offer full company benefits, relocation assistance and a variety of attrac· tlve locations, including the career active Rocky Mountain and Sur.belt areas. Enjoy the kind of personal recognition that come$ from a high profile career 
like this one. 
I 
See Your 
J f

· Placement Office 
i We Will Be o, CampusL...,__ Friday, November 13th 
If you ar:": ur.abl£1 to visit with us, send your resume detailing your background to: 

Manager, Recruitment & Coliege Relations P.O. Box 1407 Houston, Texas 770C1 
Dra..ar Atlaa Ia An l!qual O,.portunltr lmpl.>yar M/P' 
Some things just never change 
By KELLY SULLIVAN 
enjoyed a lot more success follow­
Sports Writer 
ing his move from the backfield. "I'm relaxing now and having fun again

To Navy coach George Welsh, the -that's what it's all about," he of­
more things change, the more they fered. "I was putting too much
remain the same. "Coaches change, myself to do well at
jersey colors change, but the results pressure on 
don't change," he stated. 
wingback. "I'd like to stay in one place so I

The Notre Dame offense did, can get used to it and develop some
though, and the switches look good. consistency," added Hunter.
Freshman Joe Howard, at wingback ''Switching positions can really mess
earlier this season, got word of his with your emotions."
transfer a week ago. "I found out last One player benefitting from an
Monday I'd be starting at split end," emotional change is quarterback
said the native ofClinton, Md. "I was Blail' Kiel, whose statistics have im­
relaxed all week and even today. I proved with every game. "I'm
just told myself to concentrate and gaining a lot of confidence as the
get my asignments done and that weeks go by," he said. "I'm glad I had
things would take care of them· the opportunity to stay in. That's
selves. I never thought I'd be this made a lot ofthe difference."
active so early in my college career." Navy's defense noticed a big dif­
And he never.thought he'd be so ference in Kiel~ the sophomore,
tired, either. "I'm exhausted," said from Kiel,the freshman. "last year,
Little Joe. "When you're on the he was so tentative," noted
sidelines, the game goes so quickly, defensive end Travis Wallington.
but when you're in there, it seems "He's more decisive now. His throw­
like five or six hours. At halftime, I ingwas great, he was hitting them on
thought the game was over. I had to the money."
remind myself I had another half to "That's because the line blocked
play. I've never run that much." He ran his routes well, grabbing well and gave me time," Kiel five passes for 115 yards. The last 
responded. "And the pass routes we used were effective, and the

freshman to make five catches in a receivers ran really well -they
single game for Notre Dame? Tight 
end Tony Hunter, now at his third 
came back on some bad throws. I felt position ofthe year. 
pretty lucky today. Everything seemed to be going my way."

"I played tight end in high school, Things went the way senior Don
and I thought I might play it when I Pawelski has hoped they might for
came here," explained Hunter, who four years. Pawelski, a walk-on pun­
had four receptions for 82 yards and a touchdown. "As far I'm ter, played in his very first Notre
as con­Dame game Saturday, though he
cerned I'd like to stay there." didn't do any kicking. "They put me
Hunter said that the adjustment in on the line on the specialty__...!
from wingback to tight end hasn't teams," he said. "I had been prep-/
been bad because the blocking as­ping there all week because they
signments are pretty much the same. needed bodies. I didn't mind, I just 
The big difference, and one that he wanted to play. Getting in was the
likes, is on pass routes. biggest thrill ofmy life."
"I find I'm working far more often Getting in threatened his life,
against linebackers than against according to co-captain Bob Crable. 
defensive backs, and I think that's to "He was wearing his punting hel­
my advantage," he said. "I know on met," said Crable, Pawelski's.
that touchdown pass (a 27-yard roomate for three years. "H he'd
strike in the second quarter) I beat been hit, he would have been dead."
their linebacker -I can take ad­"But I loved seeing him in there,"
vantage of my speed when I'm up Crable admitted. "It's things like that
against them." that made this game so enjoyable."
The 6-5. 220-pound junior has 
'.t Any eligtJble bachelor interested in : playing St. Mary's version of1 ''The Dating Game '' f with with Holy Cross-SMC 
1

• please C6il utlc ofthese numbers 
l

l by Fri. Nov. 6th
IHoly Cross Pres. Sara Wachter-4719 
4 Holy Cross Pub. Commissioner l : Bridget Dola11-486 7 t(Holy Cross Commissioner :i Trisha Sigler-48 75 i 
f ••••••• I
i •••••••••• t 




M<)larity 

Doonesbury 




The Daily Crossword 
©1981 by Chicago Tribune-N.Y. News Synd. Inc. All Rights Reserved 
Monday, November 2, 1981 -page 11 




Wt/.1... UNClE. HtNR'/, ATLEA~ YOI/'RtW!UINGTOAOMIT!T. 7HEit AJ?e AWT OF F0/..1<5 WHO CIJM­., MIT FIIR IAKJRSC AC75 Of 
·. !JEPf?AVfTYAN[' f)ON'T 
I

13Vet-l KNOW IT. 
~:~~!¥. 
.. .r...-.,~ ,..;_....-.,--~-~~. 

8:30p.m. 9:00p.m. 
9:30p.m. 
10:00 p.m. 

11:00 p.m.' 16 N"wset:ntcr 16 22 22 Eyt:witness N"ws 34 Tht: Dit"k Cavt·tt Show 46 Prais" The Lord 

ACROSS  29 Bunch  56 Flock  26 Nativeof  
1 Absorbed  32 Of certain  members  Lodz  
5 Terminal  poems  60 Robt.­ 27 Roman  
10 Rancor  33 No others  61 Split  official  
14 High: pref. 15 Lariat  34 Pipe joint 36 Almost  62 Sharpen a razor  28 Unyielding 29 Scorches  
16 Harem  weightless  63 Pairin  30 Anesthetic  
rooms  40 High priest  harness  31 Staggers  
17 Advice to  of old  64 Overweight  33 Russian  
the greedy  41 Painting  65 Inspects  rulers  
20 Attempt  genre  35 Gaelic  
21 Sale  42 Slippery  DOWN  37 Sums up  
condition  ones  1 Large  38 Addresses  
22 Related  43 Disakeuasts  amount  for Gls  
thru the  45 Scanty  2 Maple  39 Sign of  
mother  47 Deep voice  genus  sorrow  
23 Otherwise  48 Parch  3 Entreat  44 Footnote  
24 Cipher  49 Benefit  4 Youngster  word  
26 In a jaunty way  52 Find fault 53 in the past  5 Stylish 6 Out of this world  45 Placid 46 Epithet for Hemingway  
7 Compensates 48 Places for  
8 Ear prefix  valuables  
9 Greek  49 Encourage  
letter  in crime  
10 Lady's hat  50 Abominable  
11 Thought  51 Surface  
12 Endure  52 -in  
13 NobiA  (succumb)  
Italian  53 Nautical  
family  command  
18 Foyer  54 Hackman  
19 Indian  55 Mineral  
Ocean arm  earths  
23 Engrave  57 Gold: Sp.  
24 Fissure  58 Little  
25 River in  white lie  
England  59 Article  

Campus 
• 
.k~O-'i p.m. -autograph party. "don't make a right."' mkhad molindli. the nazz. ~pon~ornl hy juniper prt·s~. hook~ availahk at party ( S2.9'i ). 

•6:.\0-H 
p.m. -choo~ing a maJor night. ~nK coundling and career development center. all arc invited. 

•7 
p.m. -al!ernate work~hop, urban plunge. I0,1 o'shaughnessy. 

• 
~ p.m. -graduate school information night. donald f. caMro, director of grad ~chool admb­sion~. memoriallihrary lounge, sponsored hy abac. all arc wekolllt'. 

•H: 
I c; p.m. -conn-rt. gin· duh. carl stam­UH!ductor, o'laughlin auditorium. frn· of charge. 


Television 
7:00p.m. 
7:30p.m. 
.8:00p.m. 

22  <)uincy/llarry 0  
12:00 p.m.  28  Newswatch 2H  
46  Lestn Sumrall Tcad1in~  
12:30p.m.  16  Tomorro\\: <:oasl To <~oast  
28  ABC Nt:ws Ni~htlint·  
46  1\lackwooJ Broth,·rs  

Today in History 
Today's highlight in history: 
In 1917, Britain's Balfour l>n:l;tration on Pakstinc calkd for the estahishment of a Jewish national state. 
On this date: In 19,10. IIaile Sdassk wa~ crownnlemperor of Ethiopia. In 19'i6. the Hungarian' government rcrwunced the Communist-bloc's War~aw Treaty. In I964, King Saud of Saudi Arabia was deposed and sucn'l'ded hy King Faisal. 
And in I96~. whitt· mt·rn·narks and black troops invadt'd tht' Congo from Portuguese An­gola. 
Ten years ago: The Nohd Priz<· li1r physics wa:-. awarded to Dr. Dennis Cabor of the't'lnitnl Statt·s, who devdopnl ,1-D photography. 
Five years ago: Jimmy Cartn hecame the 59th president ofthe United States with an Election Day victory over Gerald Ford. 
One year ago: The Iranian parlianwnt voted to free tht' Amt·rican hostages if the United States agreed to conditions set hy Ayatollah Khomdni. -. 
AP 

Tonight 
16  MASil  
22  CBS N"ws  
28  Jokn's Wild  
34  The MacNdl/l.t-hrn lkport  
46  Believer's VoitT of Victory  
16  All in tlw Family  
22  Family Fl·ud  
28  Til: Ta,· Dou~h  
34  Strai~ht Talk  
16  Little Uouse on tht· Prairil­ 
22  Privat" Benjamin  
28  That's lncn·dihlt·  
34  Gn:at Pnti>rrnances  
46  Lt:ster Sumrall Tt·achin~  
22  The Two of lis  
46  Blackwood Brothers  
16  NBC .\1ovie: "Born To Bt· Sold"  
22  .\1ASII  
28  NFL Foot hall: ~1inn<·sota at lknvn  
46  Today with L"stt·r Sumrall  
22  llous" Calls  
34  EisenstaedL <iermany  
22  Lou Grant  
34  Holocaust -The Survivors Ciatlwr  
46  Jimmy SwaAAart Daily  

,'~ .., 

R . tter_y will be Tues. and Wed. the 3rd and 4th from 10-4 at the SU ticket office 1st Floor LaFortune brinK !D's Winners allowed 2 ticketseach and will be announced in Friday's Observer 
0 D D . ~~~~ ~~-~..~..~~...u~..04..~~..~ 
Go out to dinner with George McGovern! Win the Stun Student Union Lotterv and be the one person 
to dine with him before his speech on Thursday Nov.5. Sign up at front desk in the SU off1Ce before 
7 pm Wednesday Nov. 4. McGovern will speak on "Conservatism in America" 

·-----------------------··----~~---··--·-··-··--·---· ...
-------·-·--­
'Who's Joe Howard?' 
New hero sparks Irish offense 

By KELLY SULLIVAN 
Sports Writer 
"So who's Joe Howard and where 
have you been hiding him?" 
It was the first question asked of 
Gerry Faust following the game. 
Everyone there was by then familiar 
with the name of Notre Dame's S-9 
dynamo, but the question was still 
legitimate. 
Faust had been hiding the brilliant freshman receiver this week. "We were trying to pull a little surprise on Navy," revealed the Notre Dame coach. "We had to make changes when we lost Dean Masztak last week, so we moved Tony Hunter to tight end." 
"We noticed Joe really had im­proved as the year went on," contined Faust. "We felt after that super kick-off return against USC (56 yards) he was ready to play." 
The coaches were right. Lining up at Hunter's vacated posn•on, Howard proved ready. He got the call on Notre Dame's very first play, a 34-yard reception from Blair Kid. "I didn't know what the first play was going to be," said Kiel. "We didn't plan to come out and do that. 
But I thought the call ~as great." 
Kid wasn't bad, either. He 
enjoyed his finest day in a college 
uniform, giving the.: Irish their first 
score on a keeper from the one, and 
completing 13 of 23 passes for a 225 
yards and a pair of touchdowns. The 
sophomore quarterback hooked up 
with a lot ofpeople, but the connec­
tions with Howard ( tive for I 1 S 
yards) provided the fireworks in 
Notre Dame's 38-0 bombardment of 
Navy. 
Two were for scores. the first. a 13-yard scamper off a reverse, and the second, a 52-yard strike that Howard came back for. "I was lucky on that one," Kicl admitted. "I threw a floater and still got away with it." 

There was nothing lucky about the reverse play. "It worked out ex­actly as it had in practice," said Howard. "It always seemed that just one guy would come through with the right block. I wasn't sure whether to cut inside their defender or not, but he stopped when I stopped, and I just beat him to the corner." 
"He was quick, just too quick," confirmed linebacker Andy Pon­seigo. "I just couldn't catch up to him." 
Another six-point aerial to Hunter put the Middies in a 28-0 hole their offense just couldn't climb out of. Navy managed only one first down before halftime and didn't cross the SO-yard line until the third quarter. Tailback Eddie Meyers registered a mere 39 yards rushing. 
"Notre Dame stopped our run· ning game," Meyers said. "That was the key. Their defense was excel­lent, bigger and stronger than Michi· gan's up front. And Bob Crable played a good game. I know, because l saw him a lot." 

Crable made his presence known often, accounting for 14 tackles, while Mark Zavagnin totaled 10. Yet Crable credited the line for stifling Navy's offense. "We had good sup· port from the linebackers and the secondary, but to go after a team the way we did. you have to have success on the line. They were in the 
ri~ht place on runs. Thev had great 
pursuit. Thty did a great job of 
containing." 
Tackle Tim Marshall thinks much of the improvement up front is due to a cut-back in platooning. "You hate to play knowing that if you make a mistake you'll be taken out," he said. "We're jelling as a unit now. The coaches have more confidence in us and that helps." 
The defense has also been aided by the return of linebacker Joe Rud­zinski, who rejoined the line-up against USC after nursing a shoulder injury the past few weeks. "It feels great to be playing again," he said.­"It's frustrating standing on the sidelines. The intensity in you just builds up." 
He let some loose on Saturday, coming up with a big quarterback sack and a fumble recovery that set up a Harry Oliver 37-yard field goal. Tim Koegel dosed out the scoring with his 20-yard toss to Larry Moriarty in the fourth quarter. 
"Notre Dame's a better team now than they were in the beginning of the year, there's no doubt about that," said Navy coach George Welsh. "They've settled down and started to execute better. We just got overpowered again. They're too good for us." 
Welsh's team hasn't scored on the Irish since the dosing moments of the 1978 contest. "I haven't exactly enjoyed the series lately," he confessed."My gosh, how could you? We used to play them dose, but they've been routs the past five years. I can't explain it." 

In CCHA opener 
·Northern Michigan sweeps Irish 
By MICHAEL OLENIK seems to he bad luck for the Irish at It \vas :46 into the final period .sports Writer the supposedly friendly ACC. when Notre Dame improved the "It almost seems unreal. We must situation by tying the score on a nice Notre Dame's hockey team be snakebittcn. because every time play by left winger Bill Rothstein. Af.· lt:arned the hard way that mistakes we had some good opportunities, ter \Vinning a scramble for the puck will come back to haunt you, as they we couldn't capitalize. Its a shame,· behind the Wildcat net. the senior saw four defensive miscues turned because I thought the kids worked slid a pass to a creeping Joe Bowie 
into Northern Michigan goals during very hard both nights." who easily beat the outpositioncd their lt:ague home opener this past The fact that the Irish had 44 shots Poeschl. weekend at the ACC. on goal in Saturday's loss is a dear During the subsequent eight 
Despite playing impressive hock­indication that Smith was right, but minutes, however, the Irish dis· ey overall. the Irish found them­the hot goaltending of Wildcat Jeff played what proved to be their selves on the short side of the score Poeschl left the Irish a goal short for major weakness thoughout the both Friday and Saturday nights in 3-the second consecutive night. series. On both a two-man and a one· 
2 and 4-3 losses. The defending It looked as if revenge was the man powcrplay advantage the Irish 
league champs played aggressive motivating factor during the failed to capitalize, and the missed and opportunistic hockey to remain opening moments Saturday, as Jeff chances seemed to burn a hole in in first place in the CCI-lA with a 4-0-Perry found the net for the seventh Smith. 0 record, while the Irish fell to a 1-2-time this season only :35 into the "To have that many shots and not 
1 league record and sixth place game. The right winger from Sud­score is very hard for me to take. We standing. bury, Ontario took Dave Poulin's have been taking some bad shots, 
Irish coach Lefty Smith was at a face-off pass in the left circle and but that's no excuse for not scoring loss for an explanation after the 4-3 beat Poeschl with one of his vicious on the ones that were on goal." loss Saturday, as he pondered what 
wrist shots. It was at the 14: 16 mark that 
Andree may play in opener 
By SKIP DESJARDIN amination. however. it was were counting on the 6-I 0 center Associate Sports Editor determined that Andree merely for a great deal of action this had torn ligaments around his season. 
There was bad news for the ankle. The injury will sideline him "Obviously, we are relieved that Notre Dame basketball team over for at least two weeks. but he could Timmy may be hack by the start of the weekend. but very large sighs be back in the lineup by the season the se.t~on." said Phelps. "He has of relief could be heard echoing in qpcncr on November 28. been working very hard, and it the halls ofthe ACC by last night. "This is so frustrating." Andree showed." A healthy Andree 
Fridav afternoon, Tim Andree said last night. "It had been a great became a necessity after the scared I.rish coaches and fans when week in practice. Things were graduation of front-court regulars he went down in a .great de~l of going really well ... and BANG!" Kelly Tripucka and Orlando Wool­pain with an ankle injury. Initial Andree had indeed enjoyed a ridge last spring. Matters were medical reports indicated that fine week in practk~>. Digger complicated further when Joe Andree had broken his ankle, and Phelps and his assistants were Kleine transferred to Arkansas to would be out of action for an t in· pleased with the team's progress in continue his collegiate career. definite period of time. the early going. They were also 
See ANDREE, page 8

After a thorough weekend ex· very happy with Andree's play, and 
For the remainder of the period, Northern Michigan cashed in on one the Irish actively sought to build on · of Notre Dame's mistakes, as that 1-0 lead by peppering the Mogush once again burned the nets Wildcat goalie with 16 shots and by taking a pass from linemate Eric keeping play almost exclusively in Ponath and walking in on Laurion 
the opponent's zone. Notre Dame unattended. The play occured while nctminder Dave Laurion saw but Notre Dame had the man advantage, five shots during the first 20 minutes and it was the second shorthanded of play. as the Irish consistently out­goal in as many nights for the hustled the seemingly tired team Wildcats. from Michigan's northern peninsula. About a minute and a half. later, 
The second period saw a freshman Brian Campbell scored the rejuvenated Wildcat team rebound gamewinner -his first collegiate with two powcrplay goals, one com· goal -and the visitors looked ready img from the league's leading scorer to sit on their two-goal lead. Dave Mogush and the other from The tactic proved effective until senior defenscman Jeff Tascoff. Rothstein finally slammed the puck :vlogush beat the second period home with only five seconds horn by only five seconds when he remaining in the game. It was too snatched up a rebound and threaded little, too late, however, and the Irish a shot past a fa!len Laurion. were sent off the icc shaking their 
Freshman defenseman Scan Regan heads for the second night in a row. was off the ice at the time on a In Friday's opener, the Irish took double minor penalty for slashing, the early lead when Rothstein and the Irish went into the locker· 
See HOCKEY, page 8 room looking at a 2-1 deficit. 



