---l 
j
Robbins page 4 
J 
j j 
~ 
j 


WASHINGTON (AP)-President Reagan was wounded in the chest Monday by a gunman who tried to assassinate him with a burst of .22­caliber bullets from a "Saturday night special." White House press secretary)ames S. Brady was critical­ly injured in the blaze ofgunfire. 
Dr. Dennis O'Leary said "a really mangled bullet" was removed from Reagan's left lung. He said the presi­dent's condition was stable, the prognosis excellent. 
But Brady was said to be fighting for his life, a bullet through his brain. 
"His condition is critical," the doctor said. He was shot in the side of the forehead, the bullet passing through his brain. "He obviously has significant brain injury and he is in critical condition," O'Leary reported. 
He would not speculate on Brady's chances of recovery, but said It is likely Brady, 40, will suffer permanent brain damage if he survives. 
Brady 'critical' 

Reagan rests after surgery 

Social Security 

Senate endorses benefit axe 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Senate Republicans, intent on giving Presi­dent Reagan the budget cuts he wants, ignored Democratic charges 

Social concerns 

Students view politics 
Editor's note: The following Is the first ofa three-part series on a Social Concerns Seminar held in Washing­
ton,IJ.C. during semester break. Observer reporter Kellt ') 
Flint participated in the seminar, which focused on justice issues in government. 
Sc:venteen students participated in a Social Concerns seminar in Wao;hington,D.C. during the semester break. 
Tht· Center for Experiential Learning sponsored the week-long seminar, which wa<; coordinated by Sr. Carolyn Burgholzcr, developer for the CEL The students who auendcd the seminar include: Senior "lbt·rese Anne Brown; Juniors Ann Barsanti and Tom McStcen; and Sophomores julianne Chesky, Kathy Col­lins, Ken Golonka, Gregory Hartmann, Gregory Hauth, Michael llolloway, Roger Keating, josephine Nevarez, Karin Olsen, Tom Parrill, Denise Smith, Loren Solfest, and Diane Tobdmann. 
The seminar focused on justice issues in government, 
ac:cording to Sr. Carolyn. Students met with 
representatives 
of organizations such ao; the Legal Servkes Cor­poration, tht• Sekct Commit­tee on Aging, 

NETWORK, the International Office of Justice and Peace, the Center ofConcern, the Religious Task Force on El Salvador, and the Department of the Navy at the Pentagon. 
"Sr. Carolyn and I designed the trip to help students learn how the political process works," Ta~k Force Chairperson Therese Anne Brown said. "We organized it to enable them to sec how Christian values can be reflected within the political system. Students looked at how NETWORK and other lobbying groups that are solely committed to Christian values and ideals in­fluence the political process. 
" The trip wa~ a pilot project this year. I am really excited with the way that it went. My hope is that the seminar will be continued annually." 

Sr. Carolyn also considered the seminar a success. 
"The first-hand exposure to the legislative process and 
the accessibility ofthe congresspeople had a significant 
impact," she said. 
"Speakers such as Fr. Peter Henriot of the Center of Concern, Fr. Brian Hehir of the International Office of Justice and Peace, Kathy Flaherty of the Religious Task Force on El Salvador, and the NETWORK staff focused many of the legislative issues as they related to social justice. 
"Congrssman Romano Mazzoli ( D-Kentucky) provided a Notre Dame link. Mazzoli, N.D.'54,met with the students and arranged tours at the Pentagon, the the White House, and the Capitol. He also arranged meetings with Congressman Dan Lungren ( R­California), N.D.'68, and Principal Deputy Assistant for Navy Logistics Tom Harvey, N.D.'63 and '66(Iaw)." 
Former Congressman Fred Schwengcl (R-lowa), 
President of the Capitol Hill Historical Society, -con­
ducted the tour ofthe Capitol building. -
Schwengcl stated his views on the 1980 Presidential election. "I wasn't satisfied with either candidate," he said. "I knew and supported John Anderson. He did not win the election, but he won something else. 
"Neither political party is perfect, but now they will be closer to perfect as a result of John Anderson. He didn't win votes because he spent most ofhis time win­ning ballots." 
Schwcngel also stressed the need for religion and morality in politics. "The mural force has got to be kept alive," he added. "The Moral Majority does not ade­quately represent this force. It is dangerous to allow the Falwells to tell Congress how much to appropriate towards defense." 
NETWORK staff member Ruth Nieland gave back­ground information on the Catholic social justice lobbying organization. 
"We have 5500 members throuibout the United States," she said. "We are organized via states and Con­gressional districts. 
At 2:25 p.m., EST, six shots rang out, one hitting Reagan in the left chest, others felling Brady, a Secret Service agent and a policeman. Secret Service agents and police seized John Warnock Hinckley, 25, ofEvergreen, Colo. He was wrestled to the ground outside the Washington Hilton, pinned against a wall and taken away. Hinckley was booked on charges of attempted assassination ofa president, and ofassault with in­tent to kill a police officer. He was in FBI custody Monday night. 
There was no known motive, for the savage burst of gunfire that ex­ploded as the president stood beside his limousine, ready to step inside for a rainy, one-mile ride back to the White House. 
One eyewitness said the assailant, standing ten feet from the president, "just opened up and continued squeezing the trigger." 
Anxious hours later, Reagan was pronounced in good and stable con­dition after surgery. -"1 can reassure this nation and a watching world that the America!' govern­ment is functioning fully and ef­fectively," Vice President G... ,,rgc Bush said at the White House last night. "We've had full and complete communication throughout the day." 
O'Leary said Reagan might be hospitalized for as long as two weeks, but called that only a guess. 
While Reagan wa~ in the operat­ing room, his aides made a point of emphasizing the banter with which he went to surgery, as reassuring evidence that he hadn't been grieviously wounded. 
He winked, according to Nofziger, then saw three top staff members and said, "Who's minding the store." 
The gunman leveled his pistol at Reagan from amid a crowd of newsmen and bystanders as the president left the hotel after address­ing the AFL-CIO build1ng Trades Council. 
that they lack compassion Monday, and endorsed elimination ofthe min­imum Social Security benefit. 
On a vote of 55-39, the Senate rejected a move to restore $800 mil· lion in spending to continue a guaranteed monthly benefit of $122. 
The majority wa~ made up of 51 Republicans and four Democrats. All the opposing votes were cast by Democrats. 
Shorly afterwards, the Senate rejected a move by Sen. Ted Stevens, R-Alaska, to restore SI. 5 billion of the S3 billion the Senate Budget Committee recommended cut from spending for the Strategic Petroleum Reserve, an emergency oil supply. The vote was 71-23. 
The vote on Social Security followed Democratic attacks on t;le GOP for allegedly singling out the poor and elderly in their drive to restrain federal spending. 
• "You're talking about thoffiiands ofpeople who arc literally eating out of garbage cans to stay alive," Sen. David Pryor, D-Ark., said as he argued for a proposal to keep money in the budget to continue paying the 
S122 minimum retirement benefits. 
Sen. Donald Ricgl_c, D-Mich., leadc:r of the move to restore $800 million, said he would save the money elsewhere in the budget by allowing "junkyard dogs" to go after waste, fraud and abuse. 


Large voter turnout highlights primaries 
ByJEFF HARRINGTON 
News Staff 
Two tickets from each class advanced from yt·sterday's class dec­lion primaries to tomorrow's runoffs with what Tom Kot·gcl, Om­budsman election chairman, termed "a pht·nomenal turnout, the ht·st in years." 
The tick;ets headed .by presidential candidates Torn Lupo and Tom Schuler received 227 votes (2;\ percent) and .216 vott·s (.21.8 per· cent), respectively, to earn spots in the senior class elec:tion runoll Over 56 percent ofthe current junior class voted. 
In the race for junior clao;s officers the tickets of Mark Mal andJulian Rowe advanced to tomorrow's runoff. Nearly 62 percent ofthis year's sophomore class cast ballots giving the Mai ticket 29S votes, or .28..2 percent ofthe vott•s cast, and the Rowe ticket 290 votes, or 27.7 per­cent ofthe votes ca~t. 
An unprecedented 69.3 percent ofthe freshman clao;s turned out to push the tickets headed by Lou Nanni and Bob Thompson into runoff positions. The Nanni ticket gained 307 votes, or 26.4 percent of the votes cast, while the Thompson ticket garnered 294 votes, or 2S.3 percent of the electorate. 
Kathy Jurado and Anne Maureen Slowey advanced to the runoff.o; in the race for off-campus commissioner, capturing 47 percent and 31.3 percent ofthe vote, respectively. 
Tuesday, March 31, 1981 -page 2

NewsBrieb 
c===~========~================================~
by The Ohserwr and The Associated Press 
John W. HinckleyJr., arrested in the wounding of 
President Rt~agan and three others yesterday, was carrying three hand­
guns when he was arrested in Nashvile last October while then­
l'rt·sident Carter was in town, the FBI said. Rep. Bill Alexander, D-Ark., 
said the Evergreen, Colo., resident was arrested by Metropolitan Air­
port Polic on Oct. 9 for carrying handguns. Former President Carter 
wa~ conducting a town hall-style meeting at the Grand Ole Opry that 
day. FBI agent Richard Knudsen confirmed that Hinckley, 25, had 
been arrested by airport police but declined to release details of the 
arrest or charges. The Police Department referred all calls to the FBI. 
Knudsen said information on Hinckley was being sent to Washington 
and any further details would have to be released in Washington. 
Roger Young of the FBI described the weapon as a "Saturday night 
special" and said it was purchased in a Dallas gun shop. Hinckley was 
booked on charges of attemptd assassination of a president, and as­
sault with intent to kill a police officer. He was awaiting arraignment. 
Young, the FBI spokesman, said there had been "no problem" with 
Hinckley's coherence when questioned by authorities. -AP 
Organizers of the Academy Awards 
ceremony decided yesterday to postpone the nationally televised program 24 hours because of the assassination attempt on President Reagan. Charlie Frank, a spokesman for ABC television in New York, said the decision had been made to delay the program until tonight at I 0 p.m. EST. Earlier, Norman Jewison, producer of the show, Fay Kanin, president of the Academy of Motio_n Picture Arts and Scences, and johnny Carson, the show's host, had met with ABC television offi­cials at the Los Angeles Music Center to discuss their options. Fans had started arriving before dawn for front-row seats outside the Music Center and a chance to view the winners and losers at the evenings's extravaganza. -AP 
American leaders are out of step with the public, which is more religious and more concerned about moral values than top people in most fields such as science, politics, the news media and education, a study said yesterday. "It is clear there is a dramatic gap," john C. Pollock, the project's research director, said recently. "Overall, leaders are different from the public. They don't represent the public." The study of 3,780 respondents, made by Research and Forecasts, Inc., was commissioned by the Connecticut Mutual Life Insurance Co. to explore American values ofthe 1980s and how much they are shared by leaders. Although there was no intent to focus on religion, it emerged as "the one factor that consistently and dramati­cally affects the values and behavior of Americans," the report said. The report said the influence of religion "has penetrated virtually every dimension of American experience" and "is a stronger deter­minant ofour values" than any other f.lctor such as age, sex, economic status, race or political belief. "Our findings suggest that the increas­ing impact of religion on our social and political institutions may be only thepeginning ofa trend that could change the face ofAmerica," it said. -AP 
Striking coal miners snubbed United Mine Workers President Sam Church in the union's largest district yesterday as he made a last bd to sell a proposed contract one day before it goes to the 160,000-member rank and file for a vote. Meanwhile, trouble flared in southern West Virginia, where UMW pickets tried to keep non-union miners from reporting to work. A sheriffs deputy was struck in the face by a rock and a picket was charged with malicious wounding, 
authorities said. Mingo County Circuit Judge john Bro,nson later 
issued a temporary restraining order against the striking miners, limit­
ing to three the number of pickets who may gather at each mine 
entrance. Church was in West Virginia ending a five-day tour of the 
coalfields for a showdown with critics of the proposal, but most 
miners he wanted to reach stayed home. Only about 50 ofthe 26,000 
members of UMW district 17 showed up in Charleston to hear him 
defend his settlement, which will be put to the membership for a 
ratification vote today. -AP 

The body of a black boy was -discovered yesterday afternoon in the Chattahoochee River southwest of here, the 21st black child to be found dead in the Atlanta area in the past 20 months, authorities said. Residents of South Fulton County fund the body about .~:.30 p.m. while boating on the river, county police Sgt. Denny 
Hendrix said. The body was clad only in underwear, he said. Dr. 
Robert Stivers, Fulton County Medical Examiner, said, the body was 
"pretty well decomposed" and probably would not be identified until 
later today at the earliest. Members ofthe special task force investigat­
ing the lO child slayings and two disappearances were sent to the 
Sl"ene in southwest Fulton County, said Atlanta Police spokesman 
Roger Harris. Asked to estimate the age ofthe victim, Hendrix said he 
was "more than I 0 years old and less than 20." The two children 
whose disappearances had been under investigation by the task force 
art· I 0-year-old Darron Glass, who was last seen Sept. 14, abd 16-year­
old joseph Bell, who disappeared March 2. \ 
Becoming windytoday with increasing cloudiness late in the day. Warmer. High in low to mid 70s. A 60 percent chance for thunderstorms tonight. Low in upper 40s. Partly sunny and cooler tomorrow. High in low 60s. -AP 
H:;x tJ .\',_,r,·e D~m.,?, iS 4(•5.5~, 
.Observing changes 
This time of the season is traditionally one of transi­tion on campus. New student leaders and class officers will soon take office, and many clubs and organizations are also changing their leadership. The Obseroer is also going through such a period, but this year's transition warrants special mention. · 
If you are a junior or senior, I don't have to tell you 
how much The Obsemer has changed during the past 
two years -you've witnessed dramatic changes in 
both the appearance and content of the newspaper. 
During the 1979-80 administration of Editor-in-CI:ief 
Rosemary Mills, The Obseroer underivent a complete 
design overhaul. The result was a much more profes­
sional, established appearance. That progress in itself, 
not to mention the improvements made in editorial 
content, could have made the job of the 1980-1981 
Editori;i.l Board somewhat anti-climactic. That fear 
could not have been more completely dispelled than it 
was under the administration of Paul Mullaney. 
Mullaney's 1980-81 Obseroer, in my opinion, moved 
further ahead in one year than any administration that 
has run this newspaper since it'S eirth nearlJ! J.5,:yt:Ciflir" 
ago. Why such a sweeping statement? The evidence to 
substantiate the view is impressive. Some points ofpar­
ticular importance: 
-In one year, The Ob­seroer has completely over-hauled its production, editorial, and business func­tions by making the dramatic shift to a computer system. This quantum leap forward in newspaper tech­nology has placed The Ob­

seroer among the finest and most progressive college dailies in the nation. To pur­chase, install, and adapt to such a comprehensive com­puter system in the short span of one school year is certainly the most im­pressive achievement of the outgoing staff. Put in very simple terms, The Obseroer now has the technology and staff structure to make it a remarkably true small-scale model of a modern metropolitan daily newspaper. Reporters can now write news and sportsstories on video display terminals very similar, ifyou will, to those seen on·thelou Grant television series. Editors can then summon this copy from the central memory unit of the system at a mo­ment's notice by simply inputting several computer codes. Business functi~ns like advertising lineage totals, accounts receivable, and payroll can also be handled through the use of the central computer system. 
-In the short span ofone school year, The Obseroer advanced the technological level of its typesetting operations three stubborn steps. Last year, all copy was hand-set by typists who simply re-typed all the copy into manual typesetting machines which then produced the camera-ready film which readers even­ttially see as columnar newspaper print. The next step came at the beginning ofthe Mullaney administration. A semi-automated typesetter was installed. Although it 


Jobo McGndh 
Editor-in-Gdef Inside Tuesday 
worked in conjuction with the main coq1puter unit, The Obseroer's rapidly expanding need for speed and ac­curacy forced a move to an even more sophisticated typesetter which could be fully integrated with the central memory unit. This additional upheaval came in earlyjanuary. The Merganthaler computerized typeset­ter that we now operate finally gives us the speed, quality, and flexibility needed for a daily newspaper to serve its readers with the latest news and the minimum 
number oftypographical or content errors. 
-Alsoduring the one-year Mullaney administration, The Obseroer became truly capable ofstaying abreast of the far-flung natuce of Notre Dame sports and news events. Our mobile terminal now permits the instan­taneous transfer ofa story from any point in the nation, whether it be Pauley Pavil­lion or the U.S. Capitol, to 
the  Obseroer's  computer  
memory.  
In  retrospect,  these  ac­ 

hievements, and many other improvements in design and editorial quality -like the addition ofdaily news focus stories, and weekly inter­views with important people in the "Q & A" sec­tion -constitute a giant move ahead for our or­ganization. 
The results are impressive in themselves, but consider for a moment under what circumstances they were ac­complished. The decisions, financial arrangements, and 
implementation ofthe new policies and practices were all accomplihed by students in the time between study­ing for tests and writing term papers. The funds were secured entirely from Obseroer resources saved up over the years. And student-solicited ad revenue, not . student fees, paid for the bulk ofall the improvements. 
The bottom line is this: The administration of Mul­laney and Company has played a major role in making The Obseroer a newspaper that is now widely respected for editorial content, sports and news coverage, and level of technology. I think it is important for our readers to know how we are trying to improve our service, and exactly where The Obseroer stands in rela­tion to other newspapers. And for anyone who ap­preciates that importance, the Mullaney administration certainly deserves a tip ofthe hat. 

Friday's article entitled "Hesburgh to study crime problem up close," accidentally omitted the byline offormer editorials editor Michael Onufrak. 

_The_Ohserver_ 
Design Editor..................Gregory Swiercz Design Assistants ....................... Tonia Hap 
Jeff Moore 
Typesetter ............................... Bruc.e Oakley 

News Editor .............................. Lynne Daley 
Copy Editor ..................... Dave Rickabaugh 
Sports Copy Editor............. Skip Desjardin 
Typist ......................................... Katie Biganc 
Systems Control .......................... Ray Inglin 
ND Day Editor ...................... Dan Gonzales 
Ad Design ..................................... Fran & Co. 
Photographer ........................... Mike Tuohy 
Guest Appearances ......................... Vanians 
Haifa mole 
·The lovely Anne Fink 
Hal and the First Mistake 
CHAUTAUQUA COFFEEHOUSE 


Duke Tumatoe 
and the All Star Frogs 
ONE SHOW ONLY WEDNESDAY NIGHT Admission $1.00 
in the Ballroom of LaFortune 
Managing Editor ......................................TomJackman 
"j,:,,_. c•i;.,·~·z·t' .~ an ;ndq::c;;dt :Jt ncv.s~',lpt:r publi:::.hed ln the ~rudenr<-n! the 
Executive News Editor ..............................I.ynne Daley 
·nl,lT-n·. ,)j \,·;,r ;),u;·,c J_1: LL andSain1 \lary"s Collq;e It d,>e5 n~>l ne1.essanL 
NewsEditor .............................................Tim Vercellotti 
rdleu t'":(.' DI".J;, H'S ,,f rhc .H.!m;n,<rr;mon ot c;1 11er msnturJOn. The nrVI.S IS repl1 rtcd 
News Editor ..................................................)ohn Higgins
.l~ d•. l;•.l=Ci} aile ,l, ~·hect"-'d} as p,,ssihk. Ediwria!s. n·presenr the opwwn of .1 
Senior Copy Editor ........................Mary Fran Callahan 
nJ3j<lLl: •.II rhr r.:.dlt•)f!d.l l),,ar.J \~ummrnrar1es, opmiorb. and Jerters are the VIeW~ 
Sports Editor ..............................................Beth Huffman 
nf :!ietr dlHiwrs ( ulur.ir. sr<l c 1s d\.dablc to all members of the communH~. and 
Features Editor....................... : .................. Rick Hermida
:Lt tn·t· cxpr·~·ssHJt~ ,)!· -.·anm~=. ,·.pmwn~ ·.:>n ·:arnrus. through letters. is encouraged 
-·----·--·~·R·-·-...,_.. 0---..--.. ...:~ ...--• 

SMC News Editor ................................Cathy Domanico Photo Editor ...................................................john Macor 
Business Manager ....................................Rich Coppola Controller........................................................)oe Mulflur Advertising Manager ......................................Mark Ellis Production Manager ...................Ryan Ver Berkmoes Circulation Manager ........................Tom Macl.ennan 


----~----­
Tuesday, March 31, 1 ~81-page3
The Observer 


Final meeting 
1980-81 senate bows out 
ThtJo 19R0-191i I Student Senate formallly approved the 1981-1982 student senators in its final meeting last night at Hayes-Healy. They also discussed party room policies. 
Student Body President Paul Riehle thanked all those who par­ticipated in the first Senate and t·xprt·ssed optimism in the Senate's accompishments this year. New SBP Don Murday also expessed his thanks to Riehle ·and the <)ld Senate for "setting up a base which could make tht· Senate a very viable and pownful body." Ik also thanked them for their paticnn· in working out the kinks and prohkms of the new body. 
In lottery news, Murday said that l'r. Ikppt·n's secrt·tarics were unable to n:lcase any information. lie said that the implimentation of a lottery remains uncertain. 
The Senate approved a motion to • send a lettt·r to Presidt·nt Rt·agan on 
behalf of the Notre Oamt· student 
body wishing him a speedy recovery 

Business program aids Arts and Letters majors 
' 

By TIM PETI'ERS 
News Staff 
The College of Arts and Letters plans to offer a supplimental program in business next year. The Program for Administrators, as it is called, which is neither a major or a second major, will he available for t·urrent freshmen and sophomores beginning In the fall. 
According to Dr. Kathleen Weigert, assistant dean of the col­legt· and director oftht· program, the program consists of eight courst·s. Rt·qiurt·ments include tiJUr courses in gt·neral business -accounting, 
SUMMER STORAGE SPACE 
Special discount for !ID/SMC students Security Patrol Checks 


259-033&) 
SELl' LOCK STORAGE OF MCKINLEY 816 East MeKinley Mishawaka 
Applications for the 1981-82 
Student Government Cabinet Positions will be made available starting 

March 24 at the Student Government Offices 
on the second floor of Lafortune. 
Must be returned by March 31... 
finance, management, and market­
ing -as well as elective courses 
such as Sociology of Business, 
American Business History, and two 
economics courses. 
"Our hope," said Dr. Wcigert,"is 
that the program will help the stu­
dent to understand the relationship 
ofbusiness to our society. It is meant 
to suppliment whatever major the 
student is enrolled in." 
The program will be open to a · 
limited number of students, Dr. Weigert stated. Interested students ·should attend a meeting on April 9 in room I04 O'Shaughnessy Hall at 7 
p.m. 

and offering their prayers. 
A six-step recommendation regarding party room policy received passage hy the Senate. The first step called for an investigation of a number of rectors on the man­ner that they carry out the policy, mentioning the rectors of Cavanaugh, Lewis, Lyons and Stan­ford halls specifically. The second step requires the 191-J 1-1982 Senate to check out what halls have ade­quate party room space. The third part suggested the study into the ef­fect of the policy on campus social. The fourth part calls for complaints about' any rectors to he brought before the Senate. Mickey Turzai, author of the proposal, recom­mended that the Senate form a standing committee to inve_sigate the complaints. · 
The fifth and sixth components of the proposal dealt with the pos­sibility of kegs in the party rooms and a Senate sponsored survey to look into tht· drinking 'S'ittilltkl11'"1tr 
Notre Dame. 

Turzai recalled that two years ago the banning ofsection parties by the administration by instituting a policy which designated certain rooms in each dorm as party areas. He quoted the administration as saying the reason for this policy enabled the students to socialize "in a more humane way." 
Turzai reported that this policy "has drastically reduced the number of parties on campus." He said the "policy requires too much planning and has resulted in forced socializa lion." He reporte<.l that the part) rooms cause a reduction in the num­ber ofsocial outlets on campus. 

Turzali further said that the policy is forcing people to party offcampus and suggt:sted that section parties be reallowed. He stated that the party rooms "have madt· socialization more inhumane." 
Frank Tighe brought up the point 
that the party rooms area more 
v.iwk. road for ..allowing kegs on 
campus. He continued hy saying that 
it makes it easier to control who 
comes to a party and sited cases of 
vandalism in instances of section 
parties. 

Tighe said that "we will never liberate the party rules unless we in­vestigate the drinking problem on campus." Riehle suggested that the Senate make up its own alcohol awareness survey to determine whether the administration's view which believes that there is a drink: ing problem on campus, is accurate. 
Rich Coppola said that the view 
came about as a result of drinking 
surveys distributed by the ad­

ministration and that the problem 
may exist with the surveys and not 
the students. 
LSAT • MCAT • GRE 
GRE PSYCH • GRE 810 • MAT 
GMAT • OAT· OCAT • PCAT 
VAT· SAT ·CPA· TOEFL 
MSKP • NAT'L MED BDS ECFMG • FLEX • VOE NOB • NPB I • NLE 
~-H IUIPIIIN 
EDUCATIONAL CENTER Test Preparation Specialists S1nce 1938 
For informatton, Plet1Se Call: 
291 3150 

COMMURIOATIOR ARTS at ROTRil DAMI 
Practical skill-oriented communications courses desiined for teachers and for prospective professionals. M.A. may be acquired in four summers, or in two summers and the connecting academic year. Also open to nondegree students. 11 day session 
from June 13 to July 7. II day 1111ion from July 8 to August B. Courses also available for entire 33 day period. Special feature of 1981 session: An all-4ay Workshop on Writing and Designing Publications. Other 1981 courses: The Art of the Cinema, Television Production, American Short fiction, Seminar in the Teaching of Short fiction, Introductory and Advanced 
•on • rictlon Writing, and IS Propositions about Mass Media, Photography, film II Insight, Creative Writing, Design, Television in American Life, Publishing, Public Relations, Independent Projects. Write 
Prof. Donald P. Costello, Chairman, Department of Communication Arts, University of Botre Dame, •otre Dame, IR 46886. 
BEST ACTRESS 
1980 DRAMA 
DESK 
AWARD 
PAT CARROLL in GERTRUDE STEIN 


GERTRUDE STEIN GERTRUDE STEIN 
SAINT MARY'S COLLEGE PERFORMING ARTS SERIES WEDNESDAY, APRIL I, 1981 8:00PM O'LAUGHLIN AUDITORIUM 

TURDAY, APRIL 11, 198 

St. Joseph County Police Dept. Fraternal Order Of Police Presents••• BILL ANDERSON 
SHOW 
and 

AONNIE McDOWE 
SHOW 

IN CONCERT 
Morris Civic Auditorium 
6:00 P.M. and 9:00 P.M. SHOWS 
For Ticket Information Contact: 
Student Union Ticket Office 
Main Floor La Fortune or Morris Civic Auditorium 
RONNIE 
McDOWELL 
,., 

Tuesday, March 31, 1981.~ page 4 
"• ..

Features 
DavidKnight 

Robbins, uWoodpecker,,stillgreat 
D ecently two of my favorite lady friends -a pair of ­

transplants during their first year. If the operationft.Lcslies -introduced me to an altogether excellent "takes," the law students are shipped offto Washington.
Tom Robbins' novel: Still Life With the Woodpecker. 
They become politicians. As I was cruising the bokstore aisles with these two 
Much of Robbins' tale, however, concerns the trials lovelies, I asked them, in my suave little way, to recom­
and tribulations of Princess Leigh Cheri as she seeks mend some reading material. My mood required a light 
sexual, ideological, and romantic fulfillment. hearted, witty, semi-serious little ditty with a touch of Leigh Cheri is just your average confused, sexually
much needed sex and adventure. 
active, coke-snorting, leftist, expatriate member of The Leslies agreed -an unusual situation itself-on royalty. Gender is hardly important in this scheme. I 
Woodpecker. 
found myself -a red-blooded male -truly under­They did not steer me wrong. Woodpecker is just 
standing of the female point of view. Robbins shares plain fun. Robbins, a young author with several books 
with his reader the woman as a person, not a symbol. already to his credit, leads the reader through some 
The cosmic humor of life's ironies and adventures slightly absurd episodes in the life of the expatriate 
overwhelms gender and focuses on the person. This is, I Princess, Leigh Cheri, and the "Woodpecker-" an out­
think, Robbins' point. law dynamiter. 
of Robbins' style. In two page chapters, Robbins develops ideas; be it Ifyou likedEven Cowgirls get the Blues you will love Robbins' bizzare perspectives and observations are Ralph Nader, a clanking heart valve on a compulsive gambler, or lunar this book,Ifyou didn't like Cowgirls but are a breathing both witty and accurate. You'lllaugh out loud through cycle contraception, and fully incorporates them into the plot. The human being with a taste for adventure, sex and the 
most ofthe book. 
mind boggles. absurd, pick up a copy of Woodpecker, put tongue Imagine a slightly stoned Kurt Vonnegut happy with As a law student, I was subjected to a particularly scathing -albeit squarely in cheek -and get set for some real ad-the wo~~d and in love with life, and you will get a not!on accurate -attack. Robbins observes that all law students are given anal venture. 
. ' ~~r ~ ..• '! •t 19 I; • 
Chautauqua: Has blues, will succeed 

Guitarist Ellen Mc/lwaine 

I 
had just concluded my interview with the well-known blues saxop­honist and vocalist Eddie Shaw. When I first met him he was half on a couch in LaFortune. I'm afraid that by the time I concluded ·the interview, he was considerably closer to the real thing. I did manage to learn, in the course of our discussion, that Eddie Shaw toured with blues great Howlin Wolf for fifteen years: "When Wolf died in '75, I went out on my own." For Shaw this roughly translated into being on the road touring for 46 weeks a year. With Shaw's sum­
. mary that he plays "old blues, classic tunes revitalized," I walked away feeling content, if not a litt}e drowsy myself. 
· Onstage, the show opened with Ellen Mcllwaine. Mcllwaine and her guitars employed open tunings, bottleneck slide, electronic gim­micks, and an incredibly powerful voice in her attempt to make the concept ofsolo rock work. The result was often loud, energetic, and interesting, but seldom musical. 
Her repertoire, consisting of mainly original tunes (four on acous­tic, four on electric)simply did not include enough variety to keep the crowd very interested. 
To her credit, Mcllwaine appeared poised, professional, and fully in charge. This I would assume is the direct result of 16 years of ex­perience on the road. All in all, Mcllwaine was certainly different, not very musical, but certainly different. 
After a short intermission, Eddie Shaw and the Wolf Gang, sans Shaw, appeared on stage. The Wolf Gang consists of Earl Howell on drums, Layfette Gilbert on bass (Howlin Wolfs old bassist), and Eddie Shaw, Jr. on guitar. This trio played two moderately paced blues tunes before being joined onstage by Eddie Shaw. My earlier interview with 
Mr. Shaw in no way prepared me for what I was to see. Eddie came on stage "cookin' and poppin' and burning." 
Eddie Shaw and his Welf Gang proceeded to show those in atten­dance what buies and swing arc all about. From alow Chicago blues to fast boogie tunes, Shaw and his band displayed an ability to commun­icate which is all too infrequently e_ricountered. 
One of the most well-received tunes was something off of their latest album called "My Woman is Ugly." Last year this song was nominated for a Grammy award. This should provide the reader with some indication as to the overall quality of the group. 
The rhythmic feel of the group was excellent. They played with remarkable sensitivity, and intensity as well as precision. Whenever minor rhythmic discrepancies between the guitar and drums threatened to destroy the groove, Gilbert's bass interceded to pull everything back together again. In short, if Eddie Shaw and his Wolf Gang had swung any harder, they would have been crossing state lines into Ohio and Illinois. 
The great blues guitarist T-Bone Walker was once heard giving this advice to a young aspiring blues musician: "Swing the blues...put a little life into it, a little pep; rock into it." It was very evident to everyone at Chautauqua Friday night that Eddie Shaw and his Wolf Gang took this advice to heart. 
PaulBertolini 

World,s smallestcircus performs today 
T
he all new 1980-81 edition of The Royal Lichtenstein Circus in-, eludes an expanded menagerie, an aerial act, jugglers, acrobats, magicians and clowns. Now on its nl!tth annual national toyr ofover forty states, the world's smallest complete circus features the acrobatic and juggling antics of Stve Vacha from Lincoln, Nebraska; the rota bola skills and single trapeze act of Albuquerque's Stephen Desaulniers; illusions by Chris French of Sacrament; and sleight of hand and eccentric juggling by John O'Laughlin of Denver. The 
menagerie, including five different species oftrained animals, will be 
under the direction ofringmaster-founder, Nick Weber. 
Also in the unique Royal Lichtenstein Circus format will be two 
narrated mime fables. "Neighbors" recounts the adventures of a ro­
dent odd couple as they practice the Golden Rule; while "The Impos­
sible Steam" pits an extremely altruistic and idealistic switch-engine 
against the challenges ofwork-a-day reality. There are overfifteen acts 
in the full hour performance. 
English, History, Music, or American Studies majors interested in creative writing, music, restaurant, or book reviews are invited to a meeting at The Observer 
Wednesday, Aprill, 7:30 p.m., or call Rick at x1715. 
.• 

The~======~================================= 
T0 da~=================T=u=e=sd=ay='=M:::;ar;:::c=h=3=1=,=19=8=l==pa=g=e5 
Molarity 
DID YOO READ ABWT THE 65"·Y£AR-at> GJVY 
WHD15 A~ 00tfR6MD 

Hr IJ~KED IN liEW YDRK · UNTIL J.l£ R'ETIREj) AND 15 
NOW A GENERAL 

Michael Molinelli 



I Gur~s B£CAU5£ 
HE'5 NOT WORRI£I>ABOVT 6£TTIN6t A JoB lJJ.IE"I\l 

Campus 

• 
12:15 p.m. -lenten mass; fr. griffin, Ia fortune rathskeller, all welcome. 

•12:30 
p.m. -farmworkcr week; "outcasts," smc/nd im­provisational group, Ia fortune student center, sponsor: floc. 

•3:30 
p.m. -lecture: "the natural law: a perennial problem," dr. ronald p. mcar­thur, pres. thomas aquina.o; col­lege, I 0 I law school. 

•4:30p.m
.. -biology dept. seminar, "selective neutrality of allozymes in e colt," dr. daniel hart!, purdue univ., galvin aud. 

•7p.m. 
-chaplin film series, "modem times," annenberg aud. spons: english dept. 

•7,9:45 
p.m. -film, "oliver," engr. aud. spons: student union. 

•sp.m. 
-women's oppor­tunity week, speaker, nora 

• 
ephron (writer) in carroll hall smc. ' 


Doonesbury 
Garry Trudeau 




,I 
r 
~ . 
r 
---~--------------------~~~--------------------------------------------~----------------------------------------------~ 
Sports Special -Rockne Remembered Tuesday, March 31, 1981 -page 6 
Half-century later, Rockne still lives 
There is little doubt that Knute Rockne was one of the best known sports figures ofhis era, if not the best known. If the great Fighting Irish coach bad any competition in that department it might "have come from football's Pop Warner or baseball's Babe Ruth. At left, Rockne is flanked by those two con­temporaries, Warner (left) and Ruth in Decmeber, 1925. Fifty years ago today, the nation was jolted to mourning when the popular 43-year-old Rockne was killed in a plane crash near Bazaar, Kan. Six ofhis outstanding players were pallbearers at the funeral (right). All­America quarterback Frank Carideo and 1930 captain and end Tom Conley are at the bead of the casket as it left the Rockne home. The others are halfbacks Marty Brill and Marcby Schwartz, fullback Larry (Moon) Mullins, and center and 'captain-elect for 1931 
Tommy Yarr. 

Oz•er I00,000 people lined the streets ofSouth Bend to pay their last respects to Rockne. The city's population at the time wasonly 77,000. Those who couldn'tget into Sacred Heart for thefuneral, bidfarewellfrom outside. • 
.Rockne 
continuedfrom page 8 

That was enough for the members ofthat 1928 ~qua<.! who were 4-2 going into a game with un­<.lefeate<.l Army. Everyone knew Gipp playe<.l his greatest games against Army ~ he never lost to Armv -an<.! Rockne use<.! the <.leathbe<.l tale to win a game. 12-6 that he coul<.l have never won any other way. 
( )r maybe he could have. Maybe it really <.lidn't make any difference in the outcome ofthat game. \laybe he never really said it. But the important thing to remember is that it worked then. 
And it undoubtedly works today. 
:'>lumerous stories have been told of the stunned reactions to this tragedy that struck fifty )'ears ago this day. In Atlanta, one well­authenticated story tells ofa newsboy who stood on a corner waiting for his afternoon papers. They were dropped from a truck and he grabbed the top paper from which screamed the headlines proclaiming Rockne's death. Tears streamed down the newsboy's face as he tore up the paper and threw the rest into a gutter. 
"I can't deliver them," he mutt~red. "I don't want nobody to read about Rock." Knute Rockne...the personification ofa feeling 
that runs deep through the Notre Dame campus; through Notre Dame men and Notre Dame women who can add their own stories to the thousands that circulate wherever these people congregate. Storiesofvaliant come-back t sand un­believable blow-outs; of memorable victories and once-in-a-lifetime performances that have become the trademark of this university. Inci­dents it seems, that have become the rule rather than the exception. 
All of which started with Knute K. Rockne. A man and a myth whose intluence is still undeniab­ly present at the little Catholic college that sits on the hank ofSaint Mary's and Saint joseph's lakes. 
(phow by john Macor) 

A liturgy of Christian burial was celebrated by University President Fr. Charles L. O'Donnell (above). The mass was attended only by family, players and close friends. Each year since, Rockne's players and friends have returned to nearby Highland Cemetary (on Pm·tage Avenue)for a memorialservice. (Sports Special photos courtesty ofNotre Dame Sports Information.) · 

~~(),.tSclJ==~=t=·=~~S========~=====================T=u=es=d=~='=M=~=ch=3=I=,=I9=8=I==p=ag=e=7 
by The Oh.rerr•t•r and The AJSuautt•d Pnr.r 
The annual Blue-Gold gatlle, marking the offi­
cial end ofspring football practice, is scheduled for Saturday, May 2 at I p.m. in Notre Dame Stadium. Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students will be admitted at no charge upon presentation of their student ID cards at Gate 15 on~v-General admission tickets for the public are available in advance at the ACC's Gate 10 box office from 9 a.m. to 'i p.m., Monday th'rough Friday. Prices for these tickets arc 52.50 for adults and S I for those 17-and-under. Tickets will also be available at the stadium on game-day for at S3.'i0 and $1.50 respectively. There will be no reserved seating. Th.: game is sponsored annually by the Nore Dame Alumni Club ofSaint joseph Valley and suppors the club's scholarship fund which currently sustains sixteen area students at the University. 
•The Ultimate Frisbee Club of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's will practice Wednesday and Thursday afternoons on Madcleva tkld at Saint Mary's, weather permitting. Preparations {or Saturay's away meet will take place. Saint Mary's students are par­ticularly encouraged to attend. 
, I ­
continuedfrom page 8 
came into the final game of this tournament with~ 25-9 record. The nine losses is the most ever by an NCCA champion. 
Early on in the game, it appeared as though the Hoosiers would be beaten. 
North Carolina opened the game by outscoring the Hoosiers 8-2. In­diana did not get a field goal until 'i: 16 had elapsed. That basket came on a tip-in by reserve Steve Risley and started a run of six straight points that created the first of four tics in the first half. 
Thomas scored 23 points for ln­

• • .Hoosiers 
diana and Wittman added I6. AI Wood topped North Carolina with IS. However, freshman center Sam Perkins was held to II and James Worthy scored just 12 before he fouled out with 5:07 to play. 
In the consolation game played earlier in the night, Jcff Lamp rallied Virginia with some clutch foul shooting and Othcll Wilson preserved the victory with his hal­lhandling as the Cavaliers downed Louisiana State 78-74 last night in the NCAA basketball tournament's consolation game. 
The game began on a somhcr note when the public address announcer asked the crowd to ohserve a mo­ment of silence for President Reagan, shot hours earlier in Wash­ington. 
Virginia led hy I 0 points when the Tigers ran off a I7-6 spurt in a 4:1 <; span that put them up hy one point, 67-66, with 4:36 to play. 
Later, Wilson ran the dock down to I3 seconds with some fancy hall handling hcfore he was fouled hy 1-.!­han Martin and hit one of two t(ml shots for a 76-74 lead. 
L.'ilJ's Tyrone Black missed a jump shot at the other t·nd and when Vir­ginia's Lee Raker rehoundt•d ht• was fouled hy Willie Sims. Rakl'C t'anned two free throws with no tim!.' li:ft on the clock for the final margin. 
Classifieds 
LOST. A while cotton blazer. no bul· 
DISCOUNT Must Sell Now 5 Cases Top tons. sattn lining. Possibly tell at SMC. 
Quality Pool Chlorme Tablets 277-8561 LNoTtcEO Finder ple,ase call283-8663 

J 
FOR SALE: Peavy 300 wall bass amp. 15 1n spkr like new $325. x8S49 INSTANT CASH PAID FOR CLASS RINGS $20-$85 OR MORE WE MAKE 

FOR RENT 
HOUSE CALLS 255-2402 
MORRISSEY LOAN FUND 
L. TICKETS

Furmshed 4 bedroom house for next 
Semors can no longer apply Last day 
school year close to campus. good lor underclassmen to apply IS 
area. 277-3604 or 288-0955. 
Thursday Aprll2. I ~eed 3 (thai's three) g;~du~ti~n tt~k­ets. (Yes, folks. it's slartmg already ) If
Summe1 houses and rooms, IU!mshed. ASSASSINS Tell me an Assasstn story. 
you can help me, call Scoop al1772.

walk lo campus, cheap rent, 277-3604 Only the tnterestmg ones please Call 
or 288-0955. 

John Htggtns at t 715 or 8553 N~~d EXTRA GRADUATION TIX b~djy : PLEASE call Mary Pat al8091
IIVAILI\BLE NEXT SCHOOL YEAR 2 FAAMWOAKER WEEKI FIVE BEDROOM HOUSES, NEliA ND. 
FAAMWORKER WEEKI SEE REX HARRiSON iN. MY FAIR
LEASE. DEPOSIT 234-2626 FARMWORKER WEEKI 
LADY"-TWO TICKETS TO APRIL 3RD SHOW IN CHICAGO, 15TH ROW, $25

Housebroken Cartoomst needs Room, 
EACH CALL 7884

OVERSEAS JOBS · Summer-year roommates, etc. for first semester next round Europe. S.Amer. 1\ustralta, year.. call Mtchael 1795.. while supply As•a 1111 helds $500-$1200 monthly. lasts! Stghtseemg Free tnfo Wnte IJC. Bo• 52·1N4. Corona Del Mar, Ca. 92625 AVAILABLE SUMMER liND NEXT 
SCHOOL YEAR 1 AND 3 BEDROOM 
APARTMENTS 234-2626 FIIRMWORKEAWEEK! FIIRMWOAKEAWEEK!


\LOST/FOUN~J -~~~·~~·~····· 
The Outcasts. Lunchltme today tn LaFortune In cormBTlOI'at on ofFOUND Some money near La Fortune [ ___________] 

FlftMCRKfRWEEK I durmg break Call Bob 234-6293 NEED RIDE TO CINCINNATI AREA 
SMC SENIORS! FREE CHAMPAGNE! 

FOUND Before Break. a BROWN WEEKEND OF IIPAIL 3. CALL BARB liT You can still p1ck up tix for Sen10r WARM-UP TOP. •n the Volunteer 41-4726. 
Brunch. Go for il. 

Sevtces van. call Mtke at 1652 EASTER BRK FlY SOUTH 
TomR. 

FOUND SLUE COAT AT CORBY'S ANYWHERE BET.ATLANTI\ AND WIN­To the best roommate a guy could CALL 46t 4 FOR INFO TERHAVEN FLA.FOR $140 have. 
ROUNDTRIP .3005 OR 8171 Love,PLEASE gtve me back my wallelll had 
Tim gtven tla good home It was like a chtld Need riders fo Columbus. OH., leavmg to me It d<H!sn·t have any money m 11. Fn., l'.prtl3. Call Jeff 1803 anyway (I'm not that sluptd.) IfUBI want 
THE CIRCUS IS COMING! my 10 back Call John Htggtns at 1715 At de needed. ST. LOUIS week"nd or 8553 or brtng up lo I he OBSERVER APRIL 3; call JIM t 145 
THE CIRCUS IS COMING! 

OilICe 
You've seen better heads on pimples. 
Jim Goode tor UMOC.

lOST A pair of blue sandels stze 7 1·2 al 
Pangborn SYA before break CALL 
FOR SALE]
4451 ATTeNi-'j~~·sMc FRESHMEN! Applications for next year's commis­LOST. LARGE BROWN DRESS BOX IN 
BUMPEASTICKER sioners are available NOW at your 
(1) WHEN YOU SAY NOTRE DAME.
THE LOBBY OF THE CHICAGO MilA· hall's front desk. We encourage RIOT SUNDAY AFTERNOON MARCH YOUVE SAID IT ALL' EVERYONE to apply. Get involved with 
(2) WHEN YOU SAY IRISH. YOUVE lhe Class of '84!
29 IF YOU FOUND IT PlEASE CALL 277-3990 SAID IT 1\LL 
$2 00 each. Send check or money or­1\ls. Suzte Restic,(alias Lady Diana)-11 lost at Santor Formal· One Cole-Haan der to: may be Itme to break open the Aiuntte shoe bo• cntaming a patr of brown IRISH' and celebrate once more. Remember loa1ers and a tan lotletry k1l w•lh I he ini­P.O. SOX 3364 it's your last year-so live it up. 
ltals TAB. tn the hotel lobby on Sunday 
CHAPEL HILL, N C. 27514 Prince Charmmg 
mormng around noon. II you have DELUXE BACKPACK, $55 value. used
them. please call Tom at I ISO Reward K. Delame. future summer roomie; ollered want my postcard!
only an hour. Fr. Joe 7118 SMC Student Activity Programming Board IS now accepting applicaltons for lhe following chairperson post tions·. -FILM SERIES -TRADITIONAL ACTIVITIES -SPEAKER SERIES -ENTERTAINMENT (CONCERTS) -RECREATION and TRAVEL -cOFFEEHOUSE -GENERAL PUBLICITY -PUBLICITY ARTIST -SAPB SECRETARY -SAPS TREASURER APPLICATIONS 1\VAILI\BLE IN STU­DENT ACTIVITIES OFFICE, LEMIINS HALL and liRE DUE BY 91\M, APRIL 2. QUESTIONS? CALL MARY· 5754 
FIIAMWORKER WEEK! FAAMWORKEA WEEK! FIIAMWOAKEA WEEK! 
Women of the World Beware! 
You have ollended me for the last time. I grow wea1y of your tiresome transgressions against my being. You wtll pay dearly for your crimes. 1 have wallowed In I he muck of abuse thai you hurl upon me for far too long. The time has arrived to act w1th tmpunity and ter· nble JUStiCe. Beware the furor that can be mme. You have been warned 
wifh love always. Scoop 
TO THE GIRL AT THE PENN STATE-NO SOCCER GAME, WE TALKED ABOUT FOOTBALL HOPE TO SEE YOU liT PSU-ND FOOTBALL GAME. AEPL Y OliVE HARTMAN, 602 SPROUL. UN!· VEASITY PARK, PA 16802. 
Happy Birthday STEVE Love your Flortda Girl 
Happy Birthday NICK Love your Lewis Ladtes 
Moe, quil waiting 1111 the last night to find a date. Guys like you need al least two weeks lo gel a datal Hacker!! 
Join the 'Elect Wm.D. Boos lor DiKon Township Clerk Club" You won't be sorry... Look for the red key chains! 
THE CIRCUS IS HERE!!! IN FRONT OF SOUTH DINING HALL NOON TOOIIV IN CASE OF RAIN LAFORTUNE 
JUNIOR ADVISORY COUNCIL MEETING: TUESDAY, 7 PM, WALSH HALL! LET'S HAVE 100 PERCENT liT· TENDANCE. PLEASE BRING ANY NAMES OF JUNIORS !INTERESTED IN PERFORMING AT THE NIIZZ AND THE LENGTH OF THEIR ACT 
..\II, ld:-.~dn·d .ub lll11ST h,-rc•, t>l\it'LJ t . .,.. 4 -l!.J p !11 "'"' : l~·-~ 1 ··l...h-1 rht­,.,.,,,f' •n wh" h !111• .td ·~ tlHl Thf• Ohsen.~r l'lfnt• ,,,lj .t., ..,d, t· ~·' •·d~1 Mor•d.h '"'''''Hill F~td.rl 11) i){) it r11 10 I) do p m d't, t,1., ,,r, ... f-. "l!"a! Ill' II"' jhtrd ··• 'It•( I'• l"'iSlHl .,, lt,tdlhjl• Hll• 1l.t1: 
MOBY. Heard about !he show lh1s weekend When's the next one? 
dear mary, rob, and tom 
watch out for I he wrath of god it I he backgammon tourney contmues before the phtsto test. and due to Jack of space and time tn the living room d•mension. may be called altogelherlll 
the hebrew dante/ 
SMC Senior Brunch IlK still avatlable. Stop In al the alumnae ottice. the otttce in leMans closest to the library eKtt One last chowdown wtth your frtends 
Anyone havmg the name RICH COLLIS should contact anyone in Holy Cross Hall tor accurate mformatton teadmg to his qutck ellmmatton from the game. Patd lor by I he Committee to Lake Rtch Collts, T. Swartz, Chatrman 
lynne daley looks terrific in her lla-ed state, even tf she does go to bed like a ·greased ptgl" scoop 
tane-o. 
thanks for call mg. i feel great! see ya ,.. over easier (If you invite me!) and be sure to keep those cards and letters coming! 
mtssmg you, 
11m 
hey shtrley, when are lhe paychecks going to be in? everybody 
Brucegod. we koob lnday. yes? yes, 1 pay. call. we koob much! scoop 
1\tn't he a peach? 
Marcia, Kristin, Kris, Nora, Paul. Steve, 
Scott, Andy, Sob. Roy. Tom. Ann and 
Mike: 
Thanks for the great dtnner tn Boston. 
You all made my birthday really spe­
cial! 
Love, 
Jana 
THE CIRCUS IS HERE!!! IN FRONT OF 
SOUTH DINING HALL NOON TODAY IN 
CASE OF AlliN LAFORTUNE 
ATTENTION CONNECTICUT VALLEY RESIDENTS Do you need a summer 10b? Look1ng tor transportation home lor you and your possesstons4f Get involved tn for­mtng the Connecticut Valley Club here at Notre Dame For Information Call x t 620 and ask t01 B1ll 
MIKMIKE. PtoTEA. H :· liND TIM IN 
REGARDS TO YOUR CAMPAIGN 
PROMISE DO YOU THINK THE NO 
GUYS liRE SO DESIRABLE? WE SUG· 
GEST YOUR CAMPAIGN INCLUDE II 
CAMPUS-WIDE FIGHT AGAINST ND S 
GREATEST' PROBLEM--MilLE 
EGOTISM liND IMMATURITY PER· 
HAPS YOUR SOCIAL TACT WOULD 
HAVE BEEN AIDED BY THE USE OF II 
DICTIONARY WHEN CLI\SSI~ING ND 
WOMEN AS WENCHES ' 
CONCERNED WOMEN OF NO 
HELP DID YOU HAPPEN TO PICKUP 1'. LARGE BROWN DRESS BOX IN THE LOBBY OF THE CHICAGO MARRIOTT ON SUNDAY AFTERNOON DURING CHECK-OUT IF SO PLEAS!o CALL BUFFY, 277-3990 IT CONTAINS MY FORMAL. 
TEST 
USE ONLY A NO 2 LEAD PENCIL 
CHOOSE ONE IINSWE R ONLY 
1 Bill Gnzz Nelilsl has a) a face tt\at 
can curdle mtlk b) could turn the 
Medusa to stone c) looks ltke len miles 
ol bad road d) could be the poster chtld 
for a ZPG poster e) 1111 of !he above 
2. Btll Gnzz· Nellis! IS so ugly a) young children start crytng at the stght of h1m .b) h•s younger brother •ns1s1s Ihal hots ·an only chtld c) he could be mtstaken to 
a Neanderthal man d) he could make a neo-otyugh stck to tis stomach e) 1111 ol the above ANSWERS 1e. 2e VOTE BILL GAIZZ NE LLIST FOR UMOC! 
Happy 19th. Maureen The Rest of the 2 South Whorehouse 
Desperately need 2 itx 10 graduattonl Call Ruth al41-5459 
Joante. 
I hope today has been a beautiful 
day. jUS! as you ordered Have a great 
19th btrlhday I suppose now you 11 be 
more sophtsllcated 
Just when you thoughltt was sale 10 go back to lhe formal. Thumper II' 
Jtllo-man lor UMOCI 
a What IS !he lavon to saytng of Jtn••e the Yukon s lavonte cat? 
A: I hate mooses to pteces! (A /ow-brow toke for all you O'VOr· aged adolescents who know your car· 
loons!) MoDse Control 

CRLb ghack 
welcomes all NO · SMC students less than 10 min. from campus 
St. Rd. 23 at Bittersweet 277-3143 Specializing in: 

Hickory Smoked Ribs and Rib Tips, Broasted Olicken, Broasted Potatoes, Sandwiches, and now Pizza 
TUES. THRU THURS. 
LARGE PIZZA $1.00 OFF 
Hours  Fri.  IIAM-IOPM  
Tues. thru Thurs.  Sat. 4PM  · IOPM  
IIAM-9PM  Closed Sun & Mon.  



Tuesday, March 31, 1981-page 8 
S~orts 
Catches compliments 
Snow returns as coach 
Former Irish All-America receiverjack Snow bas returned as a special assistant to Coach Gerry Faustfor the spring. (Photo by ]ohnMacor) 
By CHRIS NEEDLES 
Sports lf'rlter 
For the 1962 and 1963 football seasons, Jack Snow was nothing more than a reserve player, being shuttled by his coaches between the split end and halfback positions in order to buy him some playing time. Snow had fulfilled a life-long dream to attend Notre Dame -"It took me 20 seconds to decide whether to ac­cept the scholarship offer," he says now -but prior to his senior season, he had played sparingly, catching a career totat·of only ten passes to that time. 
Then came 1964, the first year of the "Era of Ara," and the year Notre Dame had its last Heisman Trophy winner. And forJack Snow, it was the year that all the pieces fit together, when he shed all the frustrations of the past two yt:ars like he did oncoming tacklers. 
Snow, working with eventual Heisman winner John Huarte as his quarterback and Ara Parseghian as his new c.oach, responded with a phenomenal season, which at the time was the best season ever by a Notre Dame wide receiver. That year, Snow caught 60 passes for 1,I 14 yards, totals that were previously unheard of for the run­oriented Irish. For his efforts, he was rewarded with numerous awards and was a concensus first-team All­American selection. 
"There were a number of factors that contributed to that season," said Snow, who has returned to his alma mater to help Coach Gerry Faust during spring drills. "First, ofcourse, was that we had a great quarterback who could throw in John Huarte. We also had two ·Other great receivers in Nick Eddy and Phil Sheridan, plus the guys out of the backfield, who helped divert atten­tion from me. 
"Also, remember that back then there was no double coverage, it was just straight man-to-man. So that helped greatly." 
Following seven consecutive sub­par seasons prior to 1964, Notre Dame registered a 9-l record in Par-

Knight, Hoosiers take nationalcrown 
PHILADELPHIA (AP) Isiah Indiana took its first lead of the Thomas, Indiana's All-America game at the buzzer ending the first guard, broke North Carolina's half when Randy Wittma hit a jump frontcourt barrier and led the shot from the right corner. That Hoosiers to a 63-50 victory over the made it 27-26. And after Knight Tar Heels last night for the 1981 talked to his players in the locker NCAA basketball championship. room, Thomas, the 6-1 Indiana 
The championship, the second for guard, went to work. Indiana Coach Bobby Knight, was He scored eight points, three on marked with a somber note follow-layups and two after his own steals, ing the shooting ofPresident Reagan as the Hoosiers out-scored North earlier in the day. Carolina 12-4 in the opening 4:28 of 
As the NCAA division I basketball the second half. committee listened to reports on Indiana led 39-30 with 15:35 to the President's condition, game-play and the Hoosiers were on their time drew nearer. It was not until way to a fourth national title, the the NCAA, the presidents of both second in Knight's 10 years at In­schools involved and NBC televi-diana. sion, which was broadcasting the Indiana won-fhe title in 1940, 
event, all were sure that the Presi-1953 and 1976, the last under dent was out of danger, that the Knight. It capped off a season in game was iven the go-ahead. which the Hoosiers had been all but 
It started only I 5 minutes later written off. and it was preceded by the Rev. After a 7-5 start this season, Donald Bolton, who asked the Hoosier fans nearly had given up. basketball-crazy to pause .one roo-But Knight, the consummate coach, ment to pray for the safety of the would not let his players even think President. of folding. The Hoosiers wound up 
The game began as an anti-cli_rn.ax, ----~·:!nning the BigTen Conference and But as it progressed, the tension ofa 
See HOOSIERS, page 7national title was driven home. 
seghian's initial season. According to Snow, sophomores, including Alan Page and Jim Lynch, played pivotal roles in that '64 season. It was those players that, as seniors in 1966, helped Parseghian win his first na­tional championship. 
The 1964 squad, though, was also in contention for national honors, and they eventually finished third in both wire service polls. "We were 9­0 before we lost to USC the final 
Spring Football'81 

game of the season," Snow recalls. "Ifwe had beaten SC, we would have been I 0-0, and the ru!]J.ors were that 
we would be invited to ·the Sugar • 
Bowl to play Alabama." 
But, back then, the Notre Dame policy was to reject all post-season bowl bids. And 1964 was no excep­tion. "We had taken a team vote," Snow said, "and we all decided that since they hadn't accepted a bowl bid since 192 5 (for the Rose Bowl against Stanford), we wouldn't change tradition. 
Jack Snow eventually went on to a fine career with the NFL's Los An­geles Rams, catching 353 passes and gaining All-Pro statusyon numerous occasions. He retired in 1976 and went into the real-estate business in Orange County, California, with his college roommate (Snow was a resi­dent of Cavanaugh, St. Ed's, and Alumni Halls). 
He now lives with his high school 
sweetheart and wife of 16 years, 
Merry Carol ("Born on Christmas 
Day," says Snow), in Seal Bay, Cal. 'The Snows have three children ­Michelle, 15;).T., 13; and Stephanie, 12. 
But football once ag::in came-a­
callin', and Snow jumped at the op­
portunity'. "I had called Coach Faust 
to congratvlate him when he got the 
job," related Snow~"and I offered my 
services ifhe needed me. I was going 
to be in the area on business anyway, 
so I was available." 
During the next six weeks of spring practice, Snow will help out 

with, of course, the wide receivers ­as they learn Faust's new offense. But Snow is not at all unfamiliar with the Irish receivers. Last season, -he was able to attend the Notre Dame battle with the; University of Arizona in Tuscon, and he has kept abreast of 
Irish football just as any alumnus is wont to do. 
And while the players adjust to a brand new coach, Snow can readily relate. He himself played for three different coaches in his three seasons at Notre Dame. "Joe Kuharich (5-5 in 1962) was more a pro-type coach, and he wasn't used to college football. Hugh Devore (2­7 in 1963) was more hardened, skilled in college coaching -in the motivation aspect, especially. Ara Parseghian ( 9-1 in 1964)was a com­
bination of both~ he was low-key, but he was a great motivator." 
When asked whether he had a preference among the three, Snow replied jokingly, "Well, 9-1 beats tl)e hell out of 2-7!" 
Surely, Gerry Faust wouldn't 
• argue with that. Coach Faust hopes thatJack Snow can help the Fighting Irish towards that type of record next season. Oh, and 60 receptions for Tony Hunter wouldn't hurt, either. 
Flash: Rockne dead 
"Since his death there have been longings at Notre Damefor the touch ofa vanished bandand the sound ofa voice that is still." 
Edward McGuire 
Transcontinental-Western's Flight 599 was 
scheduled to depart Kansas City for Los Angeles on 
March 31, 1931 at 9:30 a.m. A one-year-old, eight­
passenger, trimotor Fokker, it left on time with two 
pilots and six passengers. There were two no-shows. 
Afew minutes later, a Kansas farmer, plowing his field 
near the town of Bazaar, looked up when he heard the 
motor of a transport plane falter. Flight 599 had flown 
immediately into a storm, picked up a load of ice and 
was plummeting into a wheat field. The farmer began to 
run. 

When the plane hit the ground there were no explo­
sions, no fires and no survivors. 
Knute Kenneth Rockne -his first name is correctly 
pronounced Ka-NUTE-was ness!"

born in Voss, Norway on March 4, 1888. It is believed that the Rockne family emigrated to America sometime in 1893. They settled in Chicago, where Rockne's father, Lars, made quite a name for himself as a carriage-maker who actually had some pieces exhibited in the Chicago Worlds Fair. 
Young Knute received an in­formal introduction to the American way on a sandlot field in the Logan Square district. A slender kid with a good set of legs, he was one ofthe first guys selected when neighborhood pick-up football games were played. Ofcourse, no good foot­ball story would be complete without two worried parents who constantly shook their heads at the bumps and bruises, warning that "You, Knute, must give up this barbaric game!" 
Fortunately however, either the Rocknes were soft touches or Knute managed to get away with plenty, be­cause, he never "gave up" the game until the last day of his life. In fact, the game became a very important part of his life, and he used it a~ a mechanism to touch the lives of millions who knew him, played for him, watched him, read about him or simply believed in what he tried to accomplish in his 12-year career as head football coach at Notre Dame. 
"Rockne was a man-builder," wrote Edward McGuire in a North American Newspaper Alliance article com­memorating the 20th anniversary ofhis death. "He was a great man and he taught more things than football." 

Chemistry, for one thing. As an undergraduate at Notre Dame, Rockne showed a remarkable aptitude for the sciences and, at one point, he was forced by Father Julius Nieuwland _to decide between football and science. 
"Knute," moans the old priest in the movie, Knute Rockne: All-American, "you have a great opportunity to be a brilliant chemist. Give up this football foolish­
"Sorry, father," came Pat O'Brien's staccato reply. "I'm a football coach." 
Truer words were never spoken. Knute Rockne was Notre Dame's head coach in body for 12 seasons -1918­
30. During that time his record was 105-12-5 for an .897 win­ning percentage. 
In spirit, it is said, Rockne never left Notre Dame. Every coach, every pep talk, every win and every loss associated with the university, even today, is inevitably compared to Rockne and the unbelievable legacy he left behind. 
Stories about Rockne are not only too numerous to mention, they are too many to even bother wading through. Briefly, however, they all portray the 
same character: a stubby, balding, fireball ofa man who 
had a remarkable gift for marketing and motivating 
people. Certainly the truths have been magnified over 
these last fifty years; the man has becomea myth and the 
facts about him have been reworked into whatever 
form best fits a particular need. 
But today, on the fiftieth anniversary of his untimely death, those facts are secondary to the legends that sur­round tht; mystique that ha., become Knute Rockne. Whether or not George Gipp actually asked the boys tQ "win one" for him is not nearly as important as the fact that Rockne said he did. 
See ROCKNE, page 6 





