-~-~­
}Jill 
UMOC Standings-page 7 

VOL XV, NO. 134 an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and saint mary's TUESDAY, APRIL 28, 1981 

Plan rally 

Students protest Reagan visit 
By KELLI FLINT 
S.-nior Slt4ff H.-port<..-
Tht· Stu<knts Conl-crnt·d about Commencement, an ad hoc l·ommit­tt·t· formed in response to President Rt·agan's scheduled commt·nce­ment address, plan to gather Wed­nesday for a protest rally on the South Quad, according to SCC mem­ber Will O'Brien. 
"Wt• fed that Rt·agan's presence Is In one sense an honor, but more a chalknge to Notrt· Dame," O'Brien said. "In our perception, Reagan's appearance at commencement would be Incompatible with wtiat we sense the University to be about. 
"We view Notre Dame as a Cath­olic institution committed to social justice, and to educating its students to take their Christian values and Catholic traditions seriously. 
"Reagan's presence, just like Car­ter's presence, points out the fact that Notre Dame is an Institution of national prestige and influence. Notre Dame's students will go out Into the world with a certain degree of lt:adership, and hopefully with a sense oftheir Christian and Catholic responslbilitles." 
O'Brien added that the SCC has l"Ontacted other organizations about Its cause. 
"At this point, we are com­municating with different members of groups like CILA, World Hunger Coalition, FLOC, and Amnesty Inter­national -not so much as organiza­tions, hut the pt·ople within those organizations. 
"From their expericm:e and t·xpn·sM·d conn·rn for social justice, we an· inviting them to take up the cau~e with u~. 
"Wt· mt:t with the El Salvador Solidarity ~o:mup Sunday night. and they a~n·nlto help us out. 
"Tht·rt· is abo a rdigious task tor~T in Chicago that is planning a major tlt-monstr;Uion ht'rl." on May 
17. Wl." an· com111unicating. hut not workiug wilh tht·m to set· what tht:y arc doirl!o\. and tht·y would also like to J..now what we an· doing. 
"Tlu· Chit:a~o:o ~o:roup consists of proft·ssional demonstrators. They will havt· spt·akcrs, musicians, etc. outsidt· during commt·ncemcnt. 
concerns, and in expressing them to the campus. The night following the rally, we plan to have a meeting from which we will plan further strategies. 
"We have done a little brainstorm­
ing about what could be done 
during commencement weekend. 
We arc first waiting to build a base of 
support. 

"We are sensitive to actions that would disrupt the commencement ceremony, so the feeling right now is to be careful in what we do. 
"However, If there is a huge base of support that takes us by surprise, and people feel the need to do some­thing more, then the group it self will plan accordingly." 
O'Brien noted that no organized opinion against the SCC exists. "Our only negative response has been nasty phone calls. We are waiting for more intelligent replies, to create a dialogue," he said. 
According to Bob Murphy of tht· College Republicans, no retaliation is planned against the sec. 
"I don't think retaliation is neces­sary," Murphy said. I don't see it as many students who are really in­volved. 
"I think that it is just a group of 
See RALLY, page 5 

Senate asksDell to reduce prices 
ByJEFF CHOPPIN 
SeniorStaffReporter 
The Student Senate, in the busiest evening of its existence, passed five resolutions last night. Three ofthese proposals will be presented before the Board of Trustees at their meeting next Thursday. 
The first resolution, presented by Brian Callaghan, charged the Deli with charging higher prices than comparable stores and recom­mended that the University lower the prices to a "reasonable rate." Callaghan reported that the prices at Kroeger's were 23 per cent lower than the Deli's. 
The resolution stated that tht.· stu­dents are subjected to a monopolis­tic situation where only the University owns and operates services for.the students. 
"The Deli is supposed to be a service to the students. It sh<,uld cater to the interests of the stu­dents," said Student Body President Don Murday. Murday added thatthl." profits from the Deli go back to tht· general funds ofthe University. 
The second resolution, presented by Clare Padgett, recommended that bicycle registration cards be prbvided to students as they check into their dorms. The cards would be sent to security, who have agreed to the proposal Scl·urity would then give t:ach hall Lh, appropriate num­ber of bicycle stickers so that the students may place them on the bicycles. 
The purpose of the resolution, according to Padgett, is for on campus students to register thl'ir bikes and to make security's joh easier. The registration is for in· surancc purposes also. 
Don Murday suggt·sted the pos­sibility of engraving serial numbers so that the studt·nts could pick up their hikes downtown if recovered. lie also mentioned tht· possibility of the University installing additional hike racks across campus. Ue t:alkd the proposal a "good step in combat­ting crime on campus." Bike thd'ts make up the highest incidence of erimt· on campus, at·cording to Mur­day. 
.Julian Rowe, junior class prcsi­tlcnt, questioned the Senate's rl."sponsibility to off-campus stu­dents who bring their hikes on campus. Kathy Jurado, off-campus commissioner, suggestt•d tht· place­ment ofa table at courSl' rt•gistration specifically for off-campus students. 
Tht: third proposal, presented by 

Pat Borchers, suggt·sted that the Uni­
vt:rsity commission a study into the 
See SENATE, page 4 
Student radio 

WSND speaks ND's language 
Editor's note: The Notre Dame radio station WSND originated as a club transmittingjrom a room in Walsh ball in 1947. Now located on the fourth floor of the O'Shaughnessy building, WSND bas since ex­panded to include both AM and FM broadcasting, as well as News, 

Riveryields Atlanta~s 


26th black victi"' 
ATLANTA (AP}-Authorities have identified the black man whose body was pulled from the Chattahoochee River yesterday as 21-year-old Jimmy Ray Payne, who was last seen at his southwest Atlanta home five days ago. 
Three boys who were fishing in the river Monday spotted Payne's body caught in tree branches about 20 feet from the bank ofthe river, authorities said. 
It was the fifth time in the past 28 days that a black male has been found in an area river, authorities said. Fulton County medical examiner Dr. Robert Stivers said tht: body weighed 138 pounds and was 5-foot-H . Paynt:'s became the 26th death to he investigated by tht: special police task force handling the murdt:rs ofyoung Atlanta blacks. Brown said. Atlanta authorities had said earlkr yesterday that Payne's disappt·arance had not bt•en assigned to the special task force. StiverssaiJ Payne's ~kntal rn·ords and medical charts•hag been brought to the mnlical examiners office in an attempt to identify the body. Payne, who was slight jn stature, was wearing red jeans, a gray shirt and and red jacket when he was last StTn. The task force investigati.ng till" 25 mu Jers sinceJuly 1979 also is probing the disappeal'~nce of I 0-year-old Darror ·_;lass, last seen St:pt. 14. 
The discoYCf}' marks the fourth time it css than a month that the body ofa young black male has hct·n pulled fron tht: Chattahoochee River, which forms the boundary between Fulton ' lllnty and suburban Cobb and Douglas Counties on the west. 
Tht· last to ht· found was the body of 2;. , ear-old Michael Camt:ron Mcin­
Sports, Production and Sales departments. The following is the first ofti 2-partseries on WSND. Ob­server reporter Kel/i Flint inter­viewed Station Manager Tom Nessinger and Program Directors 

Kevin Leitten and Krls Allen on the fonnats and functions of AMIFM broadcasting_ 
By KELLI FLINT 
SeniorStaffReporter 
The University of Notre Dame owns radio station WSND. Students and volunteers from the area operate the AM/FM stations. 
Two major sets of guidelines restrict the station: rules and regula­tions set by the FCC, and a financial budget that the University determines. 
Approximately two-thirds of the 

money allocated to WSND is allotted to the FM station, the n:mainder to AM. However. much of the equip­ment and many of the supplies purchased hendlr both stations. 
Many pcopk arc under the im­pression that WSND broadcasts from the WNDll building, act·ording to Station Manager Tom Nt:ssirigt:r. 
"Until 1953, we were known as WNDll. However, when O'Shaughness} was completed ('53}, we assumed our currt·nt posi­tion in the tower, and in '55 officially became known as WSND. We either 
to the commercial station now 
operating from behind Breen­
Phillips Hall. 
"WSND was a single station that 
broadcasted popular music, until 
1959, when 'channel 2' originated. 
"Channel 2 broadcasted classical 
music. In 1962, Channel 2 received 
an educational FCC license, and 
then became WSND-FM. In 1971, 
WSND-FM received a S25,000 grant 
from the Ford Foundation, whkh 
they used to purt·hase a stereo 
transmitter. 
"The FM station currently ha.o; a 35-mile radius, and one ofthe largt·st record librarks in Indiana. 
"WSND-FM wa.o; recently cited as the I radio station in South Bend by a South Bend Trihunt: columnist," Nessingcr notl."d. 
WSND-FM is a non-commercial fine arts and educational station, according to FM Program Director Kris Allen. 
"During the day, wt· havt·tlnt: arts and educational hroadctstin~o:." Al­len said. "At midnight, we hroadca.'t a show calkd 'Nocturnt· Night Flight'. Nocturne featun·s various typt:s ofmusic, mainly nKk and jazz. 
"We curn·ntly haw about 50 an­nouncers. In addition to studt·nts, volunttTrs from the community come in to announlT lor us. 
"In addition to tlw rt·gularly programnll·d concerts, WSNI>-FM has many special programs, includ­ing: the Chicago Symphony Or­chestra, the Boston Symphony Orchestra, the Metropolitan Opera( whkh is a livt: brqadcast ), and the New York Philharmonic. 

"Through our rally, we hope to 
tosh, who was discovered April 20 in the Chattahoochee in the southwest 
gave br sold the call letters 'WNDll' 
See WSND, page 3

nJmt· to a t·kar artkulation of our 
corner of Fulton County. I 

~--~-­

l\T~tllscL=)=t:==i=~~~=S======~~==================~==T=ue=s=da=y=,A=p=ri=l2=B=,I=9=B=I==p=ag=e=2= 
by The Observer and The Associated Prers 
President Reagan, readying his return to public life, yesterday fine-tuned his speech to ~ongress, preparing to tell the na­tion that "the day ofdecision is near" for his economic program oftax and budget cuts. He worked on the speech Monday morning at the· presidential retreat in Camp David, Md., before returning to the White House in the afternoon to meet with his chiefspeechwriter. Entering the executive mansion after the 30-minute flight home aboard a U.S. Marine Corps helicopter, the president carried a thin briefcase bearing a red tag. He uttered a one-word word response to a shouted question about how he felt, four weeks after he was shot in an attempt on his life: "good." The president's speech to a joint session of the House and Senate at 8 p.m. today is intended to apply increased pressure on Congress, which returned yesterday from the two-week Easter recess and turned to important votes on the budget and tax proprosals. -AP 
States may outlawabortions performed outside hospi­tals on women more than three months pregnant, the Supreme Court ruled yesterday. The decision was a significant victory for the "pro­life" or anti-abortion forces in the heated legal and political battle sparked by the Supreme Court's 1973 ruling that legaliZed most abor­tions. Without waiting to conduct oral a£guments or to write an opinion, the court voted 6-3 to uphold an Indiana law that makes it a felony for a doctor to perform an abortion, other than a first-trimester one, away from a hospital. A doctor who runs a Gary, Ind., abortion dinic and three women identified in court records only by fictitious names sought to block enforcement of the law. In separate action yesterday, the court left intact Patricia Hearst Shaw's 1976 bank rob­bery conviction, turning away arguments that famed trial lawyer F. Lee Bailey gave her "insufficient" legal help. The justices refused to consider ruling that defense lawyers always fail to provide adequate legal help when they contract for the exclusive rights to write a book about a trial before it begins. -AP 
Former Vice President Spiro T. Agnew accepted kickbacks from ~ngineers while he was governor of Maryland and must pay the state 5248,735 for violating the public trust, a circuit judge ruled yesterday. "There is no question that Mr. Agnew violated his public trust," said Judge Bruce Williams. The judge said evidence presented at a civil trial proved that in 1967 and 1968 Agnew was engaged in an unlawful relationship with two associates, I.H.I'Bud" Hammerman and Jerome Wolff, to solicit kickbacks from consulting engineers who were awarded highway contracts. The evidence also showed that Agnew accepted m<•ney direcy from two engineers, Les­ter Matz and Allen Green, the judge said. The case grew out of the federal investigation that led to Agnew's resignation in 1973 as Richard Nixon's vice president and his plea ofno contest to one count offederal income tax evasion. -AP 
Seventeen-year-old Kent Gladhill didn't expect much of a Utah state income tax refund, so he was more than a little surprised to get a check for 5800,014.39. Gladhill, a high school junior who works at a local restaurant, said he realized he couldn't keep the excess $800,000, but he thought he'd try cashing the check at a neigh­borhood convenience store for a joke. The store didn't take the check, but he·has put it in his bank to draw interest money until the state asks for its money back. Apparently neither the State Tax. Commission nor the State Auditor's office was aware ofthe error until contacted by The Associated Press. "He's probably richer now than he'll ever be," joked Tax Commissioner Georgia Peterson. "I'm glad to know the state's got that kind of money." -AP 
The Marine Corps may know how to spot a good man early, but it was just a little too early in trying to recruit justin Fer­guson. A letter from Marine Corps headquarters in Washington invited the 7-year-old athlete to join up at a starting salary of $400 a month. "Little b9ys like to play Army," Diane Ferguson said of the letter her son received last week. "But he was astounded they'd pay him 5400 a month. He'd be one for free." The Marine Corps couldn't explain the slip-up. "We only mail those to lith and 12th graders," said Sgt. Ned Stackfield, a Tidewater-based Marine recruiter. "We'll put him in our fil~ and in 10 years we'll contact him." -AP 
The Saint Mary's Board of Governance 
expressed concern for the plans to renovate the old library at last a meeting held last night. The Board hoped that the needs of the Saint Mary's students get highest priority during the planning stages ofthe renovation. Student Body President, Eileen Murphy commented that the student members of the library committee plan to prepare and present student proposals for the use of the old library as a student union. Board members received a proposal to distribute letters to students concerning President Reagan's Budget cuts. Students af­fected by the cuts plan to mail these letters to their Congressmen. Dining halls serve as the distribution center for the letters. The Board opened discussion on the proposal of establishing a College Energy Committee. The resposibilities of the planned College Energy Com­mittee include educating and providing practical service concerning energy conservation. The Board set tentative dates for the next semes­ter and orientation schedules for the fall. -The Obseroer 
Variable cloudiness today, with scattered showers. and thundershowers. Mostly cloudy and cooler tonight and tomor­row, with a 40 percent chance ofprecipitation. -The Obseroer 

/
Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
The Sound ofSilence 
Granting tenure to a professor is a complex and com­prehensive process, and often students do not know the importance of their opinions in the final decision to grant or deny tenure. 
To receive tenure, a professor must not only have high student evaluations, but he must also demonstrate h.is abilities in otherareas -such as published research, faculty evaluations, presenting papers at meetings of professional societies, designing new programs. A majority of students may believe a professor who receives tenure has "fulfilled his responsibility" as an instructor, which is "to seek and to state the truth ef­fectively" (Saint Mary's Faculty Manual, p. 42). However, a teacher who has fulfilled this requirement still may be denied tenure, without students being told why. 
Confidentiality is tl:fe most important element in the tenure process, according to Dr. Donald Horning, chair­man of the Committee on Rank and Tenure. The com­mittee operates under guidelines established by the American Association of University Professors (AAUP), which stresses that a confidential process is needed to protect both the individual being evaluated and the the individuals contributing to the evaluation procedings. Even the candiate request­ing tenure may not be told the reasons for denial, but Horning explained that it is ':clearly understood that specifics may not be spelled out." 
Dr. Horning stated that the Committee on Rank and Tenure is composed ofthree elected faculty, the vice­president and dean of faculty, and an administra­tion representative ap­pointed by Dr. John M. 

Duggan, Saint Mary's Col­lege president. The commit-· tee examines a candidate's department chairman's evaluation, the candidate's personal evaluation, student course evaluations, student evaluations soliticited by the committee from past students currently on campus as well as alumnae, letters from members of the can­
didate's department and possibly letters from other members of the college community. "All (of these ele­ments) become a part of the evaluation process (but are) not weighed equally," Horning stated. He also ex­plained that the Committee on Rank and Tenure reviews, makes judgements and submits recommenda­tions to Duggan, who has access to and may review all evaluation materials. 
Dr. Duggan stated that an instructor's "teachingis the primary content" in a tenure decision, but the impor­tance ofthe students' opinions in the tenure process has not been clearly defined. Duggan added that students "do not have a direct vote" in the granting or denial of tenure, so students don't know what kind ofa vote they do have. Under the current administrative policy, stu­dent participation in the tenure process appears weak · 
_The_ObserYer_ 
Design Editor.................. Gregory Swiercz Design Assistants ............... Kathy Crossett­
Jeff'Genghis' Moore Typesetter ...................................... Ray Inglin News Editor.............................. Lynne Daley 
.Copy Editor..................... Dave Rickabaugh Features Layout.................... Greg Swiercz Sports Copy Edltor............. Skip Desjardin Typist ......................................... Katie Bigane Systems Control ................... Bruce Oakley ND Day Editor...................... Dan Gonzales SMC DayEdltor.' .............. Mary Kay Hogan Ad Design ................. Woody & Fran & Co. Photographer ....................... Tim Me Keogh Guest Appearances ....... WaylonJennings The Boss and His Cabinet ' A Man and His Axe A Boy and His Dog A Coke and a Smile Mephistopheles 

The Observer is an independent newspaper published by the studenrs of the 
Executive News Editor .................... ......... Lynne Daley-University of Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. It does nor necessanh News Editor.. . .................... .Tim Vercellotti reflect the policies of rhe administration of either institution The news,is reporr~·d .Veu•s Editor.... ..~ ......John Higgins as accurately and as objectively as poss1ble. Ednonals represenr rhe op1111on ot a SeniorCopy Editor. ..Mary fran Callahan majority of the Editorial Board. Commentanes, oplllwns, and letrers are the v1ew~ Sports Editor.. .. ~·Michael Ortman Features Editor.. . ............. ~ ....Rick Hermida
of their aurhors. Column space is available to all members of the communi!\·, and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through. letters, IS encouraged. 
·~ 

minated one year after he is denied tenure. 
The granting of tenure cannot become a popularity contest, but changes must be made. Students must feel included, not excluded in the tenure process. Recom­mendations for in<..reased student involvement should come from the Saint Mary's Faculty Assembly, the Board of Regents or from student government leaders in an effort to increase student participation in the tenure process. Saint Mary's students themselves must also become more concerned and aware of the com­plexities surrounding tenure. 
Horning noted that "it is important to protect the tenure process" but it is just as important to protect the value ofstudent opinion in the decision to grant ordeny tenure. Students are concerned when a teacher they 
value doesn't receive 
tenure, when a Committee 
on Rank and Tenure deci­
sion surrounded by silence 
does not help students to 
understand the process. In­
stead, the silence leads to an­
ger, distrust and confusion. 
The current tenure process 
must be restructured to in­
clude students as active par­
ticipants, instead of their 
present role as simply 
recipients of administrative 
decisions. Students who 
want to be involved in the 
tenure process should 
receive explanations for ad­
ministration's decisions, in­
stead of being told "it's 
confidential." Sometimes, 
silence is not golden. 
Observer notes______, 
In tomorrow's Obseroer, the news department publishes a four-page pull-out supplement on the powerstructure at Notre Dame, from the Board ofTrus­tees down to the Student Government, with features on key University officials. 
In yesterday's Obseroer, Chuck Aragon's time in the mile was incorrectly reported by the Associated Press as 4:14. Aragon's actual time in the weekend meet was 4:04.3. 
The Obseroer is always looking for new reporters. If you like to write, stop by our office on the third floor of LaFortune and talk to one of our news editors. They will be glad to help you get started.. 


and unimportant, yet students are most affected by a tenure decision since a professor's contract is ter-L----------------------...J 

sign-ups will continue until Friday, May 1 
at ND/SMC Student Activities Offices Trip will be limited to 300 people. 
Absolutely no reservations can be taken in the Fall since final room list must be sent to the hotel in May. Please bring $50 non-refundable deposits. 

Editor~in·Cbief.................... ~ .......~ ..John McGrath ,1/anaging Editor...... ...............................rom jackman 
Editorial Board and DepartmentManagers 
SMCExecutilll! Editor .....................Mary Agnes Carey SMC News Editor ................................Cathy Domanico Photo Editor...................................................]ohn Macor 
Business Manager ....................................Rich Coppola Control/er......... , ........................................ , ..... ]oe Mul.tlur Advertising Manager......................................Mack Ellis ~roduction Manager ...................Ryan Ver Berkrnoes Circulation Manager........................Tom MacLennan 

The Observer 
continuedfrom page I 
We arc currently in the midst of 
our 'Summcrfund' campaign. Our 
goal is to raise $4,000 by April 29. 
"We have 'Summcrfund' because 
the University docs not finance 
WSND-FM broadcasting during the 
summer or vacation periods. This 
means that when our volunteers 
leave, we havt· to pay people to an­
nounn· for us. 
"Sumrnerfund has always been 
Mu.:cessful in the past. Our listeners 
havt· been consistt·nt and generous 
in supporting WSND-I'M. I t'Xpect it 
to bt· successfitllhis yt·ar also. 
WSNI>-AM is .for the students. 
a<.'Cording to AM Program Dirt·ctor 
Kevin l.dltt·n."Wt· cater to what 
they want to he;tr." he said. 
"\\,.arc planning a rww li1rmat fur 
nt·xt yt·ar. \Vhat \H' will do b play a 
lot of the albums listed in Billboard 
a~ hctwt•t•n ·Ill and 200. 
"We want to t·xpost• more in 
musk to tht· pt·oplc around here. 
I 1ur <:ompctition ( WAOR, WRBR, 
119 .~. and WVPE) docs not play the 
newn music, music that we tccl is 
good. 
"We havt· D)'s from all walksQflitc 
at WSND-AM, and we try to get them 
all involved with tht' station. One 
thing wc'vt· done to increa.~c in­
volvement is t'xpand the showsfrom 
I to 2 hours. 
We try to schedule each an­
noun<.Tr ti1r 2 shows pt'r wet'k. This 
hdps them to learn the trade. They 
are all doing a tine job. 
"WSND-AM has plenty of sports, 
n<.·ws coverage, and features. Next 
year we plan to have news features 
along with sports at 12:00 and 6:00. 
"Our main concern is to provide 
the students with the music they 
want to hear. That is why we always 
have an instant request line at 6400. 
SPRING PRACTICEJ·~ 
FOR ALL TIIOSE INTERESTED IN TRYING OUT FOR TilE 
IRISH GUARD 
WED· APRIL 29, 1981 4PM on Band practice field ( b-n Sloldium & Green Field) ***You mrut be 6'2" or taller••• 
Be there or call Mark al 2833. 
LSAT • MCAT • GRE 
GRE PSYCH • GRE 810 • MAT GMAT • OAT· DCAT • PCAT VAT • SAT • CPA· TOEFL 
MSKP • NAT'L MED BDS ECFMG • FLEX • VQE NOB • NPB '.1 • NLE 
~1\MPUIN 
EDUCATIONAL CENTER Test Preparation Specialists Since 1938 
·For mlormat10n, Please Call: 
'291 3150
• 
Tuesday, April 28, 1981 -page 3 

Belfast uprisings 

~omb kills one; Sands fades 
BELFAST, Northern Ireland (AP) widespread violence if Sands dies. British government restore l!pecial -A booby-trap bomb planted in a In London, Scotland Yard said a privileges for imprisoned IRA guer­hijacked truck exploded in . Belfast letter-bomb sent to a Conservative rillas. 
on yesterday killing one policeman member of Parliament was safely Later a mob of 200 youths fn the and injuring three others. The bom­detonated but that it might be part of staunchly Catholic Falls Road area of bing, claimed in the name of the a new IRA offensive against Belfast, near Andcrsonstown, stoned Irish National Liberatioa._ Army, prominent Britons. It was the police and hijacked two buses 
followed the arrest of 20 prominent second such mail-bomb in three which were set afire, police said. supporters of jailed hunger striker days. Rioters dispersed when police Bobby Sands. A delivery truck, hijacked in moved ln. 
Sands, 27, a convicted Irish central Belfast early yesterday and 
Sinn Fein, the IRA's political front, Republican Army guerrilla recently rigged with a bomb, was driven into 
said in Belfast that Sands wa:'i "veryelected to British Parliament, was the predominantly Roman Catholic 
seriously ill, extremely weak and reported drifting nearer to death on Andersonstown district where 
close to death." the 58th day of his fast at Maze police found it. The bomb went off 
The IRA gunman, serving 14 years Prison. as they tried to mve it, police said. 
for illegal possession of a firearm, Northern Ireland's security chiefS One officer was dead on arrival at 
was in bad shape. ~aid his lawyer, Pat canceled all police leave as the Royal Victoria Hospital, spokesman 
Finucane. But Sands was experienc­British province prepared for Gerry Carson said. He said two ofthe 
ing "periods of lucidity," the lawyer injured men were in critical condi­
adde<l. 

tion. An anonymous caller to a 
An authori<athe British source

Northern Ireland radio station later 
reported that Sands weighed abou t

claimed responsibility for the blast 
95 pounds, down from It;<; pounds

on behalf of the terrorist splinter• • . WSND when he began his fast March I. 
group INLA, which claimed respon­
Requests take top priority at WSND­AM. 
"The response over the last year has been good; we've had increased listenership. 
"What WSND-AM needs is ex­posure. We need for people to know that we arc here. 
"Our music is progressive. We're not out to play the hits. We dig for the other songs that radio stations will not latch on to until they have 'burned out' one ofthe other ones. 
"We have aired many new songs, and made them popular before they go big nationwide." 
sibility for the 1979 car-bomb assas­sination of Conservative politician Airey Neave at the House of Com­mons in London. 
The blast came after police ar­rested 20 leaders of a campaign supporting Sands' demands that the 
VISAt card. A Western Union Charge Card Money Order, up to $1,000, will be flashed to the Western Union office or agent nearest your emergency. 
3.. Pick up your money-usually within two hours-at the local Western Union office or agent. There are 8,500 nationally, except in Alaska. Conveniently, about 900 locations are open 24 hours. It's that easy. 
Be sure to remind your parents about our tOll-free number. It's all they need to call Western Union to the reseue. 
•Thl" MasterCard namE' is owned by lnwrbank Cant AMOC"iation. 

• 
•Tht> VlRA nam(' is own(>(t hy VlSA ln\t'rnational. 
A prison spokesman said Sands was taking only mineral water be­cause he was no longer able to hold down tap water which contains fluoride. The mineral water was not expected to prolong his survival sig­nificantly. 

The quickest way to get emergency money. 

An eme~gency stop for repairs can wipe out even the best-heeled traveler. Luckily, all you need is the price of a phone call to get you the money before your car gets off the lift. Here's what to do when you need money in a hurry. 
1•Call home. Report the situation, and tell the folks they can get emergency cash to you fast by phone. 
I.Ask them to call Western Union's toll-free number, 800-325-6000 (in Missouri, 800-342-6700), anytime, day or night. They charge the money and the service fee to their MasterCard* or 
• 


Tuesday, Apri128, 1981-page 4

The Observer 
• • • Senate 


BARCLAY'S MEAT & PRODUCE RESTAURANT • 52885 U.S: 31 NORTH SOUTH BEND. IN 46637 
Since our inception in 1969, it ha> been the philosophy of Barclay·~ that studenr~ make outstanding employees. 
Our company, Continental Restaurant Systems, is presently expanding throughout tho United States. Locally, we will employ 140 to 160 people both full and part time, day or night. 
We are currently accepting applications for: 
Food Waiter~ & Waitresses Cocktail Waitresses Hostesses Busboys/Busgirls 
Dishwashers · 
Cashiers Bartenders Secretaries Broiler Cooks Food Prep Maintena~ce Men Management Trainees 
Barclafs provides an excellent opportunity for fun and lucrative jobs. 
Apply in ~rson between 8:00 a.m. -3:00 p.m. Monday through Saturday. 
Due to various state labor laws, we are forced to set a minimum age of 18. Interested?? 
Ban:lay's Meal & Produce Restaurant 32885 U.S. 31 North South Bend, Indiana 46637 
An Equal Opportunity Employer 
THIS WEEK at CHAUTAUQUA: 
April 28 
April 29 


POETRY 
TUESDAY WEDNESDAY 
WOMEN. YOU'RE EQUAL IN THE AIR FORCE. 
Women start out on the same footing as men in Air Force ROTC. Women wear the same insignia and hold the same cadet positions in AFROTC, just as they do later on as Air Force officers. 
And the same AFROTC scholarship can be yours as a woman. If you qualify, you can have your tuition, book costs and lab fees paid by the Air Force, and receive $100 a month for other expenses. It helps free you to concentrate on your education. And that's important. · 
As an Air Force officer, you'll be expected to use your train· ing and education, and be a leader managing people and complex systems. You'll be handed executive responsibility starting with your first job. 
It's a great way to be equal, i\lld a great way to serve your country. Check into the AFROTC program at your campus. Be sure to ask about AFROTC scholarshipS' -you may be helping yourself earn an exciting new lifestyle. 
Contact Capt Gottrich 283-6634 for additional information. 
continuedfrompage 1 
feasability of on-campus senior townhouses. The proposal is designed to relieve overcrowding of male dorms as well as to "provide many of the experiences sought by off-campus students, while not providing the inconveniences and the dangers ofoff-campus living." 
The resolution also contained a clause which stated Fr. Heppen's last directive regarding the distribution ofhousing contracts to male juniors on a "space available" basis next year. 
Mu~day said that he hoped the townhouse would operate on a stu­dent/tenant relationship. He reported that the townhouses would contain certain privileges that the dorm residents would dot. 
Off-campus senator Matt Huffman raised the possibility that females 



CAMPUS 

VIEW 

APARTMENTS 
NOW RENTING FOR SUMMER 
I BEDROOM-$230 2 BEDROOM-$275 
(monthly rates) special low summer rates: available June-August IS 
utilities paid. central air and heated pool. 
THE place to be off-campus 
would want to get included if mal,es receive extra privileges in the townhouses. Murday said it is impor­tant for the inclusion offemales, but nothing definitive on that role emerged from the arguments. 
Borchers concluded by saying "that townhouse living would be at­tractive enough that th~y would al­ways have occupants." He will present the proposal before the Board ofTrustees. 
Murday presented the fourth and fifth proposals and plans to bring them both before the Board ofTrus­tees. The fourth proposal recom­mended that the Board of Trustees, who hold constitutional authority over the Campus Life Council, amend that constitution to to in­clude the Chair ofthe Faculty Senate as one ofthe two faculty reps on the CLC and an ex-officio member. 
Murday called the chairman " the 
May1&2 

Jurnr 111 
til~ SClclcll~ 

13Cll!cl 
FRI& SAT 


best informed faculty voice" and commented further that the two members presently running for the position expressed interest in such a revision. 
The fifth proposal recognized Notre Dame's social life "as beingac­curatelty described as lacking" and proposea that the coffeehouse project be completed. It also sug­·gested a study be conducted for a possible permanent location for the Placement Bureau. 
The proposal recounted how the administration divided the $100,000 project !p.to four phases. It reported that the initial $30,000 phase has been completed, but described that phase itself as "inadequate." It continued by saying that Chautauqua still lacked the at­mosphere of the desired "hangout." The proposal also recounts the ad­ministrations ruling that furnishings and coffeehouse "are contigent upon the success" of the first stage. Murday termed the first stage as a success if numbers represent success. He reported that "a gameroom has been approved for room 20 La Fortune." 
The Senate discussed possible 

relocation for the Placement Bureau 
and expressed the value of the 
Bureau. The old Credit Union Build­
ing and the WNDU Building were 
r.1entioned. 
Murday reported that at the next 

meeting, the Senate would approve 
the agenda for the Board of Trustee 
meeting. Murday described the ap­
proval as a "matter ofprotocol." 


Registrar eliminates Sunday finals 
By DAVID SAKPHIE 
SeniorStaffReporter 
The exam schedule for the spring semester differs in at least one respect from those of l·ast semester -the elimination of tests on Sun­day. According to University Registrar Richard Sullivan, concern about the appropriateness ofSunday exafi1S occasioned the change. 
"We wanted to free Sundays from exams," Sullivan said."Students don't have classes on those days, and we felt they shouldn't have to take any exams." 
The Registrar's office rescheduled the tests that normally take place on Sunday, placing them in time slots on the previous Saturday and follow­ing Monday and Tuesday. "We found that the academic schedule allowed us to place these exams among the 27 necessary time slots, without having to schedule any on Sunday," Sullivan explained. 
According to Sullivan, the Registrar's office instituted Sunday exams several years ago because ofa problem in the academic schedule of the fall semester. "We wanted to end finals at noon on the last day to allow students an afternoon oftravel before Christmas," he said. "This dictated that we schedule some ex­ams on Sunday." 
Sullivan explained that schedul­ing for exams in the fall is much tighter, because the Registrar's office devotes less time to working out a plan. "In the spring, we have four months to work with, and we can schedule exams up until Com­mencement exercises in the third week ofMay. Scheduling is more dif­ficult in the fall, ifwe are to have the 72 necessary class days and still finish before Christmas." 
He stated that Sundays would remain free of exams in the future. "lfthe academic schedule permits it, we will cerial.nly try to keep Sundays free." . 




• 
The Observer Tuesday, April28, 1981 -page 5 

Defecting Democrats 
House favors GOP budget plan 
Reagan's two giant sttps forward yesterday as Houst conceded they lack the votes to pass thdr own stnators revistd blueprint to accommodate the administration's tax and spend­ing cuts. 
tionally program Speaker Thomas P. private Democrats" will vote to approve the president's budgc.·t plan. 
Feikes lauds An Tostal participants 
By DAVID RICKABAUGH 
SeniorStaffReporter 
Mitch Feikts, chairman of the 1981 An Tostal committee, labelled the week-long series ofevents finan­cially successful. 
"We have money left-over for ntxt year," the Notre Dame stnlor said. 
"I'd really like to thank all the people that participated. We had a week ofbad weather but the crowds continued to turn out. It was pouring down rain at the SMC pic­nic, but we still had a good number ofpeople on hand." 
Sunday, solely Brian Anstlman of Holy Cross Hall and Barbara Bower of Breen-Philips remained in the ma'is a'iSao;slns game. Yesterday An· selman sat in on Bower's organic class and when she left the class­room, he: shot her to gain the title of 
19H I Ma'is Assassin. 
The Ugly Man On Campus honors went to Mike "Gorgar" Gurdak with 74,025 votes. Second plact went to Jim Goode, who gained 50,570 votes, while third place went to Joe "For Visual Abuse Look at the Moose" Musumt•ci as a result of his 22,796 votes. The highest female who finished on the list, Saint Mary's Hollie Ezze. placed in the tenth posi· lion with 62H4 votes. 
l't·ikes added, "This years An Tos· tal wao; a grt·at time. There wao; one fn·shman on the campus who wao; going to transfer because of the lack of social life here at N.D. But after taking part in som.c.· ofthis week's ac· tlvities he hao; decided to stay." 
• • • Rally. 
continuedfrompage 1 
studt·nts looking for a cause to rally 
bt·hind. 
"They say the University shouldn't allow Reagan to speak at commencement because they feel that he doesn't uphold the Catholic standards ofthe University. 
"I think the studc:nts should be: 
expostq to the world as it Lo;, not as 
they think it should be. [{eagan's 
being Presidt·nt is qualifi<.·ation 
c:nough for his being chost·n a'i com· 
mt•ncement spcakt•r. He has 
worldwide: pown and influence, 
and he deserves our respe<.:t." 

"I've been in politics an awful long time, and I know when you fight and when you don't," said O'Neill, who presides over a House where Democrats have a nominal 53-seat majority. 
In the GOP-controlled Sente, Sen. Pete Domenici, R·N.M., predicted the Budgc:t Committee he heads would meet today to approve a plan tailored to the president's budgc:t and tax programs. 
Floor votes in both houses could come as early as Friday on a plan leaving room for heavy spending cuts as well as a three-year, across· the-board reduction in income tax rates requested by the president. The deficit for 1982 would be about J40 billion. 
Although it would mark sig· nificant progress for the administra· tion's program, passage of the budget resolution would not guarantee the tax cut Reagan wants or make the actual spending cuts. Those decisions will come later. 
Domenici said the revised budget 
plan would envision a balanced 
budget in 1984, as the president 
want.-;, to be achieved through bil· 
lions ofdollars in un_specified cuts in 

SUMMER STORAGE SPACE 
Special discount for :NDISMO students Security Patrol Checks 

259-0335 

SELF LOOK STORAGE OF MOKI:NLEY 816 East MeKinley Mishawaka 

Restaurant The Best in 
NDSU 

Aged·steaks 
120 N. Main Street Downtown, Mishawaka 
255-7737 
for reservations 
Lunch 11:00 A.M. to 2:00P.M. Dinner 5:00P.M. Clo!>Pd Sul)days & Holidays 
government programs and billions more in unspecified administrative savings. 
The committee dealt the ad· ministration a stinging setback ear­lier this month when three conservative Republican· members voted with Democrats to reject a budget resolution. 
The three Republicans, William Armstrong of Colorado, Steven Symms of Idaho and Charles Gras· sley of Iowa, all expressed concern about the S44. 7 billion deficit that 
· was penciled in for 1984. 
The House budget proposal that appears headed for approval is slightly different from the one Reagan outlined earlier this year, calling for deeper cuts in social • programs and a smaller budget deficit, but it leaves the administra­tion's proposals for defense spc:nd· ing intact. 
The alternative plan being pushed by the Democratic leadership calls for more spe1;1ding for social programs and less on de(ense, a 
sharply smaller deficit of S24.6 bil· 
lion for 1982 and a balanced budget 
in 1983. But the Democratic plan 
left room for only a one-year tax cut. 



Starring:
*George Clinton 
* Bootsy Collins 
•Sly Stone! 

•Notre Dame A.C.C. • South Bend. Indiana • 
T•ckels $9 00/$8 00 all seals reserved on sale al all3 Rove• C•IY "•cords !US 31 Nor! h. Weslern Ave ·Soulh Bend. and Dunes Plaza M•ch•gan C11y1 SuspeMed ChOrd (Eikharl). J R ·s (laPorle). Recmdland (Benlon Harbor & Kalamuoo) Karma 1For1 Umled Records (Gary) T•ckelron (Ch•cago) and !he A C C Box Dlhce 


** cosm1c qu1z .1'
************************** * 
1) Who biR€Ct€b th€ plann1nq o~ th€ ~IRst lanb1nq on mms? 
2) Who 1s caRL Saqan 's pmtnrn 1n th€ pRobuctlon o~ "COsmo" on PBS? 
3) Who IS {jiVIn{j a ~R€€ talk Mlb VISual PR€S€11tatJon ton1qht on th€ ~utu~€ o~ unmann€b spaC€ ~llqht? 
************* answrn: *************... 





i* qentRy lee i* 
~-------~-­

tonlqhtat 7:30 CC€ auOttORIUm 

• Oon't If-*:** 

·•"*miSS It!!1l~ 
----------· 
Tuesday, April28, 1981 -page 6


Features 
Michael Schier/ 
Chicago Baseball: ~ true religion' 
have long been bafHed by the un­
mistakeable presence of optimism and excitement in the cool Chicago air every spring. 
Iy put, a "die-hard Sox fan" is someone who shows excessively fixed enthusiasm and in­tensely unchanging devotion for two woven coverings ofthe foot. 
thodoxy (the display ofritualistic enthusiasm regardless of the team's performance) and 3) a concrete focus for this devotion and faith (the nine sets of sox on the playing field followers a common religious reward: the op­portunity to be "die-hard." "Die-heartedness" is similar to traditional religious claims ofim­mortality, afterlife, and eternal ha!Jpiness. 

This state of eager expectation reaches its apex on the opening day for Chicago's two baseball teams, the Cubs and the White Sox. A seemingly religious devotion to, and en­couragement for the teams continues for three months, until each team works safely out ofcontention for the pennant. 
Each, and every year, one of the Chicago teams pulls a patented "choke" assuring a usually dismal position in the standings. Despite this lack of success on the field, however, Chicago baseball manages to attract and instill faith into thousands ofpeople each year. 
Chicago baseball is more than a game. It is a religion. A typical follower of this religion is the "die-hard Sox fan." I shy away from examining a Cubs fan. A majority of Cub op­ponents refuse to recognize the Chicago Cubs as a major league team. The phrase "die-hard Sox fan" can be easily broken down into the words "die-hard," "Sox," and "fan." According to the Webster's New Collegiate Dictionary, the definitions of these words provide a strong religious argument for White Sox baseball. 
"Fan" is defined as "short for fanatic" and, under "fanatic," one finds "f"xcc:ssive en­thusiasm and often intense, uncritical devo­tion." "Die-hard" is defined as "strongly resisting change: completely and determin~d­Iy fixed." The definition of "Sox" reads "two knitted or woven coverings ofthe foot." Simp-
Apparently, White Sox baseball offers its fol­lowers three fundamental religious neces­sities: 1 ) a reason for enthusiasm, faith, and devotion (the Sox's yearly run for the pen­nant); 2) a sense of permanence and or-t including the players who wear them). 
The presence ofa deity stands as one ofthe 
few explanations for the unnatural excite­
ment and frenzy in Chicago every April. This 
godlike magnetism of Sox baseball offers its 


Baseball claims to be able to make people happy and feel young despite their age, sex, or occupation. To test the faith ofthe "die-hard" fan, however, Chicago baseball requires him to remain dlevoted even when the Sox start to slowly sink in the standings. The Sox's choking -losing many key ballgames near the season's end -tests the baseball "die­hard" in th•~ same manner the problem ofevil tests Catholic theologians. 
Chicago baseball exhibits an abundance of objects and activities easily comparable with elements ofreligion. The Latin word "fanum" meaning "temple" hints at the similar role played by ballparks, temples, and churches: meeting places for the faithful. The ritualistic, family-oriented Saturday afternoon baseball game is the equivalent of Christian Sunday mass. The player who is a fan favorite is much like a preacher, except that the fans come to see the sweet things he does with his bat and glove-rather than to hear the Good Word. 
Baseball in the Chicago area does fulfill the common requirements which define religion as we know it: a justification for faith and devotion; a sense of orthodoxy and per­manence; and a concrete focus of worship. Clearly this indicates the creative role man can take in religious worship and his ability to see religion in the objects and occurrences'of everyday life. 

J:::ace Dances is the first album of the Coat" and "Cache Cache," 
J.~new Who material since the 1978 represent a new introspective bent release, "Who Are You." Between in Townshend's songwriting. Absent the two albums, much has happened are the power-chord guitar rhythms, to the group. Immediately after Who the machine-gun drum patterns, and 
Are You, hit the market, drummer the gravelly-voiced screeches. Keith Moon died, to be replaced These two songs are totally unique, later by ex-Small Faces drummer different even from Who ballads of Kenriy Jones. Add to this solo the past, such as "Love, Reign O'er projects by Daltry and Townshend, Me" from Quadrophenia and "Love movies the Who Films Inc., and the is Coming Down" from Who Are inevitable spats between group You. members (especially Daltry and The fourth of the tracks on side Townshend), it is a wonder the one is a tune written by John record-buying public ever got a new Entwhistle, one oftwo on the album. Who album. 'The Quiet One" is a Townshen-
The Who's longevity is due to the desque rocker, and it rocks harder flexibility ofthe group. The Who roll than just about anything else on the with time instead oftrying to stop it. album. Strangely enough, the two Mick Jagger is almost 40; he is still Entwhistle compositions sound singing "Satisfaction" and he more like Townshend songs of yes­probably will until he dies (the ques-teryear than anything Townshend tion is, will he die rather than sing himselfhas written for a long time. "Satisfaction" when. he is 40?). Side one is rounded out with "Did Unlike Jagger, Townshend no longer ·~ou Steal My Money,'; a little funk writes about the same generation he and fun for Who fans, lest we think defined in "My Generation." He is Pete has gone manic-depressive on 
singing ofan older and wiser genera-us. tion, a generation whose youthful Side two begins with "How Can dc;fiance has been replaced by You Do It Alone," a song about cautious wisdom. middle-age perversity. The song 
On Face Dances, the Who come contains a fantastic bass line: to grips with the middle age, follow-Entwhistle pulls offquite a few gems ing the trend started on Who Are on this album. You. The trials of youth have "Daily Records" is probably the become the frustrations of adult-best song on the album. Everything hood, and the Who have to meet the clicks on this one. The lyrics are fun­real world of executives and ac-ny and deep at the same time, and countants head on. One cannot af-Daltry sings them like he was born to ford to be forever looking sing this song and no other. backwards. Entwhistle creates another in-
The Who open their Warner Bros. credible bass line. The guitar solo in debut with a songcalled "You Better the middle of the song is straight You Ret." This song, released in ad-'60s British pop; it makes you think vance as a single, is a humourous, up-of Rickenbacker guitars, Vox amps,• beat song somewhat similar to the tie-dye shirts, and mop haircuts. title track from the last album. "You "You" is the other Entwhistle Better You Bt"t'' shows that even if song. It sounds like it belongs in Townshend is gettin~ older, he still Quadrophenia. Lyrically this song is will not join the ranks of the es-a bit weak, but it rocks hard enough tablishment. Anyone remember T. to more than compensate for it. Rex? The Who always seem to end their 
The next two songs, "Don't Let Go albums with classic songs, and this is no socal crisis justanother tricky day for you. Another tricky day has passed for the Who, and once again, the Who not only survive, but come back stronger than ever. They will never fade away, and ifthey can keep from burning out. they will be at the forefront of popular music for years to come. 

Bill Zink 
album is no exception. "Another Tricky Day" ranks right up with "We're Not Gonna Take It" from Tommy, "Won't Get Fooled Again" from Who's Next, "Love, Reign O'er Me" from Quadrophenia, and the title track from Who Are You. "Another Tricky Day" is a song of hope for the future. While today is 
full of pain, there is, nevertheless, a solid base for tomorrow:just gotta get used to it We allget it in the end justgotta get used to it We go down and come up again just gotta get used to it You irritate me myfriend This is ;,o social crisis This you having fun No crisis Getting burned by the sun This is true This 





Features 
Thought for the Picking 
W
here Has Tommy Flowers Gone? is a play which is thought provoking -to say the least. For three hours, the audience is placed on an emotional roller coa.•iler by the main character Tommy Flowers (Larry Gard). ~<lowers is a 30-year-old character who has al­ready gone to college, does not work and goes to New York City to blow up the Lincoln Center. 
He explains that he does not hate the earth; he hates what they (apparently, the establishment) have done with it. At one point in the play, he says he would like to blow everytt>ing up and "start over." The play, however, does not advocate the the hippie culture of the sixties. What It exactly does advocate is not so clear. 
The play Is structured as a juxtaposition of separate skits -some poignant, some humorous -which reveal the various people in Flowers' life to the audience. Some of the characters include: his mother, his older brother, Jimmy Dean, his high-school sweet­bean and his dog. Tommy then meets several new people throughout the play -among them a crusty, but endearing, vagabond named Ben Delight (Dan Duc­heon) and a crazy, but sweet, aspiring cellist with an equally crazy name -Nedda Lemon (Rena Collins). 
All these people represent a variety of things. There arc those (Tommy's older brother and high school flame) who "sold out" to the establishment. Although they have no regrets, they wonder what life would be like If they had taken Tommy's route. There are those (Nedda) who at first find Tommy's life quite appealing and then eventually see It goes nowhere. And then there is mother, (whom he calis a "sainted angel" at one point) who worries about him. 
Ben Delight and Nedda are especially delightful, for they are characters In every sense of the word. Ben, Nedda and Tommy all live together quite happily, at Nedda's. Their lifestyle is Bohemian; they steal their food at the supermarket. 
Bunny ("I think all people who hate America should be electrocuted") Barnum is a high school girl who Tommy meets in NYC and her appearance raises some more thematic concerns. In shon, Bunny is the All· Amerkan, cheerlcadt•r, rich, flouncy, cheescake son of person who, being quite gullible, is enraptured with Tommy's free spirit and soon spends the night with him and smokes his marijuana. She then lapses into a ram­bling, drug-induced monologue which seems to criticize American materialism. She terminates the monologue by slitting her wrists, and dying. Tommy, tht· gallant gentleman, runs out on her once he dis­
covers she is dead. 
Nedda, meanwhile, has been taken to jail because 
Tommy took her out to dinner at HowardJohnsons and 
did not pay the bill. Feeling guilty, she returned to foot 
the tab, but was promptly incarcerated. While she is in 
jail, Ben dies, and the once happy threesome becomes a 
thing ofthe past. Nedda wants nothing to do with Tom­
my, although he does not feel the same way. 
Up to this point in the play, one gets the idea that the 
materialistic establishment types, who often go through 
life quite superficially, are being knocked. Bunny's 
death with marijuana in her hands in a hippie's apart­
ment would seem to suggest this. But then comes the 
part with Nedda leaving Tommy. She, who at one point 
admits she is In love with Tommy and wonders how he 
feels about her, finds she cannot go through life not 
paying bills and stealing food. So perhaps the play is not 
so anti-establishment after all. At the play's close, Nedda 
is alive; Tommy is dead. 
One scene, quite an emotional one, has Tommy's brother badly wanting to just talk to his younger sibling. His brother has been through the Korean War, come back and become financially successful and quite WASPish. Unhappy with life, he envies Tommy. A few scenes later, however, Tommy's old high school flame, now a WASPish homemaker, reminisces and wonders what life might have been like had she stuck with Tom­my. She, however, appears rather contented with her lot and holds no strong regrets. 
There are scenes which are ba1fling. Tommy is in a bar withJames Dean right before the star kills himselfin a car wreck. Tommy has a brief affair with a Lincoln Center tour guide, but they· go their own ways. In the last scene, Tommy is shot and dies onstage. What then is the playwright trying to say? 
Perhaps that extremism -either by totally taking the establishment by the hand or by totally bucking the sys-. tern does not work. Or the possibility does arise that the, playwright simply wrote and was not quite sure what he was saying; he could be toying with the audience's mind by having them read into the. play more than was actual­ly intended. 
The Hierophant theatre company, nevertheless, is quite a talented collection of actors and actresses. Ac­ting was more than commendable considering the con­stantly shifting scenes and moods ofthe play. 
Whatever the playwright's intentions were -they were cenainly quite thought provoking. 
Mary Fran Callahan 
• 



UMOC: Where They Stand 
Pinal UIWIOC -.dlnp 1981 f.c..l cafrull 100 Mike "Gnrgar'' Gurt.lak 740l~ Hear ChJic.:uu 
HlO Jim (itKKk-~0~70 Nk'k Conti 100 )tJC "McK.HM."" Muaumrl'i ll796 Manyl>t-tmr:r I()() 1>1\"r "Jar" Karph.:k ll27~ Mlkt' DISptgnu 100 
l>tc:klr Knkt kJ liW.\ Bob "'fhr PutM"" Drouin 100 jt"ff"Vlnyi"Jrl'kB 1699~ Paul "P T "ldztk 100 
Rrtan Foky 1249~ AncJrc:a Lafever 100 
Dtll"<•rlu"Ndll!'lt 97411 Mike: Mal 100 
Pro lturkr H:\~0 Jim Montagano 100 
tlulllt· t-:uc 6l84 
Mlc:had T. O'<:cmnor 100 M.uy t.ynn <.arp 3717 Joc:Phdkr 100 


Hrtan~IIC'r 

1!1. 
CSa

24'"'2 Torn S4.:hustC'r too 
l>tdr. lk·~ut:hc!'lnc l371 
Tom Shtdds 100 l>tdcl:knta ll11 
Rkhard StanaRC" 100 Pac:Wclxr ll26 jlmStt"in 
I!Kl frank (.C"11a l04l 
l>omtnh.: Yoclua 100 81111UI:t:t"nbf:f1Ct"r 1497 Tom Vogan 
100 Nadine Chapman 21 Steve "Buzze-r" Wczdcnko 13"Jrw Buy" Barrrll 1463 Mattannr t-:rgava'-· 91 Rkh Daly 21 Chuck Wood 13

Mary l)l\lanW•• IH9 Kelly Tripucka 90 Claro ''Boom-Boom" Mike Zusl 13She-lly ( Jbf:rmlllcr IIH~ john FeUer 
87 l>evereaux 25 Dan Crimmins 12 lkth lladdl 903 AngJe Oc.-LaRosa !16 john Gale~ 25 
John Fragala 12 IMTJ'I'uJIIIa 744 Fr Mario Pcdl 78 l'hil lleron l5 Larry jones 12 Barry SU~YC'M 722 Su.qn (Jrilwald 75 Katie Hu~n 25 Clem Kadlddlchoppcnkl 12

Chrlalllpn 700 Erk l>avis 71 
Tom F. Klucgle 25 TomO"I>ay 12jamn Mad&..Jn Kennedy ~2~ jim "junKie" Farmer 66 21

Br. Pete Mahoney MaUSIOiwyk 12Sc:ou Orrll 125 Rich "'fhc Reaper" CuUI1 60 21
Poml Parker Kevin Sweeney 12Cuunncy She'a 114 Shms O'Mallry -'i9 • Hill Pan 21 john Clements IIMary Jan< IWirny 1011 l>on Glnol:chJo 

H Barrymore Tharp 2~ Jim Filar II Juhn MuM~y 440 Tim Neely 
H Wad~ C. Waldoc.:k 21 AI Gardner IIHob Wllklnon 42~ ll.ay Ayala 
10 jim Grudc:n 22 Mill Legrand II)l<'k f.lan<l><la 422 Hillf.JIIll 

~0 John Doyle 21 l>an Rauch IIf T r "Munk" Malloy ~51 Rkh Hermida 

50 Mlke ""farboy" l.arkin 21 AmySpalz IIJay ''ltlg Nuw'' <:ornlnJ HO Mary KlnliC"III ~0 
Paul Fruehlkt" 20 Jim SCaplc:ton IIThorn Krutlk:h ~10 Tom Muc:ali 50 Ken Hcndttt.:b 20 Tim Andree 

10

J•:k (,rtftln :100 Mike McClure 10 
Carrie Koplin 20 Scan Boyle 10kcnNt"U :100 Billy Murphy ~0 .
TomML·Ca~ 19 Mark Corcoran 10

<.hip ""lkansUJk" llcnlmvt'-· 22~ sc~vrn B Tanner 50 Bonzo Hoyd 16 Mike Corcoran 10
Slcpbankl.cwla l21 MauSchdbcr 40 
Jim ""Anllchrlsl"" Fldal 15 Redwood l>avls fr111d1 l>'f.nmu 219 Pat "ftnr" Carey 40 10 
Tum Mahoney 15 Kevin lkvJnc 10Al Vl.ru•ek lO? A.F. Cleary 3~ 
Lynn Malooly 15 Paul Doyk 
10

BobMunyak lOI (:harlcs"Hnllywood'' Dyer 34 Don Murday I~ Brendal>upnjoe Belkmorc-lOO <:hucldes Urlgantl 10 
H Pa1Bon·hen 14 Franklin Fraz~l 
10

l(.athy 0 from fulry lfKl Jm-Lombardi 
H MlkeMc:tzl~r 14 Bod Fricke Uc-nlk" Rivard 
lOO Steve Laham 32 Tummy Austgen 13 Fr. An Lomgrpio 10 
10

1>1111 ""Make Mt" Puke-" Ld>m: 190 Mary "Muddy" Sleven• :10 NdiBalmc:rt 13 Katyt.ang 
10

Trd St:hwanz 170 Marc Durene l9 Andy Carkc 13 Jim Unk 10.
Rrtan ()tla <:ampbt-11 1~9 ( .hrlstinc Hayes 29 SCcvc lkBol 13 Anne Lorenz 
10

Bl"lM r Barrun I ~5 
MlkC" Bruwn 
l? Greg Desmond 13 Moon Malouly 10Juhn Gonz I ~0 

Mr. ami Mn. Paul Gales l6 Pal '"<..:ar:o" J;amc:a 13 J<II"Hihallk 10Kc-vtn jurdan 1~(1 
Tod ""fhc: Rod" Bcalrh.:t" 2~ john "t:instctn" Klec 13 ilia Monti 10Bob "<.ruw" l..auMblln I ~0 
(ircgBnncl l1 Kevln-l.c:lttt"'n 13 lkbbic Nauta 10frank Nubrt"p ll? 
Margarrl Callihan n Larry Nono 13 Pat Peluso 10Hill ••t.rzbk:kl 121 
Guy Campbell l5 Pal "Psyche-out'' O'Quinn 13 Donna Schacfrr 10 Tum NrulnFr 103 ~untnlc <:anonlcu l~ Fr.jtm Riehle 13 Bob Simoni 10 
Tuesday, April28, 1981 -page 7 
A Broken Family 
D
an's roommate, Bernie, had gone to Cleveland for a football game, and Dan would have the room to himsell He thought ofinviting Sarah over after the movie. He would get some coke or some elder, or maybe even a bottle of wine, and he and Sarah would sit on the floor and talk about life and the future and their hopes. 
What hopes? he asked himselfbrutally. In all likelihood he wouldn't even be in college next semester. With his father gone and the family finances so desperate, he'd probably soon be spending his days in a factory instead ofin a Physics lab. 
Just the same, he invited Sarah, somewhat tremulously, to come up to his room after the movie. Miraculously, she came. Now they sat on the floor, just as he had planned, with the stereo playing softly, his arm around her shoulders. Dan didn't intend to force anything, though, in spite ofBernie's cynical advice. 
Elimbeth Christman Features Writer 
Italics Mine 

"Don't let 'em prude up on ya," Bernie was always saying. "They want it as much as you do." 
"Man, you're still in the nineteenth century," Dan had recently countered. "Women have rights. Haven't you heard? The girl ha.o; as much right as the guy to say what they do." 
Bernie didn't buy it. "Don'tlet those libbers fool ya. frustrated. Show 'em you're a real man-they love it." 
Sarah wouldn't love it, Dan was pretty sure of that. She wa.'l very much her own person, temperamentally, intellectually, and ofcourse physically. Dan liked her the way she was. He wanted to get to know her better. That was all he wanted. 
"What are you going to be when you grow up?" she a.'lked dreamily as they sipped their wine. "But I wish we dido't have to grow up." 
Dan talked about science, nuclear science of some kind. Graduate school. Research. Ph.d. Sarah looked at him in awe. "I didn't know you were that kind ofa brain!" 
Brain. That label had dogged him all through high school: the big brain who was no good at spons or girls. He wished he hadn't men­tioned nuclear science. 
"It's just a dream," he said. "Maybe nothing will come of it." That was true enough. Ifhe had to leave school, that would be the end of such big-headed ambitions. And the end of scenes like this, too, he thought bitterly. He drew Sarah closer and his hand slid down and cradled, very gently, her breast. 
She sat up straight. "Hey, no," she demurred, smiling into his eyes. "Let's not get into that X-rated stulf:" 
"X-rated!" Dan protested. "That's not X-rated. PG at the most." 
"PG? Parental guidance? I better call up Mom and get some guidance." Sarah jumped up and grabbed Dan's phone and b~·gan to talk into it. "Mom, I need a little guidance. There's this neat guy ­yeah, I'm in his room -and it's kinda nice and dim, and he's got the stereo on. Yeah, Mom, it's kind of romantic. And Dan's got his arm around me, or rather he did have, and his hand kinda slipped down ­you know what I mean?" She held the reciever toward Dan. "Mom doesn't seem to like the idea, Dan. She's buzzing or whining or some­thing." She put it back to her car. "But listen, Mom, I realy like this guy, and I don't want him to get mad at me. What's that, Mom? I can't hear you when you whine. Speak up, Mom." She paused, listening. "Okay. Thar.ks, Mom." She replaced the phone and looked down at Dan, who was laughing in spite of himself. "Mom says we should play gin rum­my." 
So Dan got out his cards and they played gin rummy, and madt· the bottle ofwine last a long time. Dan's heart sang. He kept rt·mt·mbt·ring that Sarah had said, "I really like this guy." 
Later, after he had walkt:d her back to her dorm and gatht·red ht·r into his arms for a goodnight kiss, he still felt dated bt·caust· sht· had said, "I really like this guy." Ht: was sure he could find a way to stay in college. · 
When Bernie came back the m:xt day ht· saw the wine bottle in the wateba'ikt:t. "Had your marshmallow up hen·. huh? Didja score?" "Don't be so damn crude." Dan wanted to slam his fist into Bernie's leer. "Too bad, man," cackled Bernie. "Better luck next time." 
Excerpted from A Broken Family, to be publisht·d in June by Wil­liam Morrow and Co., Inc. Copyright c 19R I by Elizabeth Christman 
PhJIBordcn 19 Jim Bruns 10l>lanr Marp.rct KJn1 no Robc:"n Plu.·hcn ~0 

Chuck Tasch  10  
Tracy Walten  10  
BobZoog  10  
Ed Ncucn  8  
Dave Sundry  6  
Tom Bohlin  6  
Bob Bennett  
Bro. joseph Bruno CSC  ~  
Bob Derick  5  
Kevin Embach  
Terri Grohaus  
C. "Pete" Lost  
R. Gaynor McCown  
Julie Olinger  
Carl Ritter  
EUza Sullivan  
Thomas C. jennings  
Beaver Meehan  
Chip  
Ilaic  
(:oppdia  
Amy Faulhaber  
Douglas Gaulhier  
ND/SMC Thcauc Depl  
Annie Pancrson  
Jc.-ffRade  
MlkeWdch  I  

Tolal nurnbt-r of votes cast .281.866 



/

-The ObserYer== 


~«:)c:t~~=======================Tu=es=d=~=,A=p=ril=2=8,=1=98=l==p=ag=e=8 
/ 
Campus 
•3:30p.m.-tennis, 
nd women vs. st. mary's college, home. 

•4:30p.m. 
-biology dept. seminar, "neuroendocrine regulation of the juvenile hormone titer during insect metamorphosis," dr. noelle a. granger, northwestern u., gal­vin aud. 

•7,9,llp.m. 
-film, "high noon," spons: nd film club, engineering aud, $1 

•7p.m. 
-lecture, frank shep­herd as robert frost. mem.lib. aud., spons: student union academic comm. 

•7p.m. 
-film,"el cuagillo," spons: dept. of modern Ian-· guages, carroll hall smc. 

•7p.m. 
-chaplin film series, "a king in new york," annenburg aud. 

•7:30p.m. 
audio-visual lecture "man and the cosmos," 

b. 
gentry lee, coproducer of "cosmos." former viking mis­sion planner, cce aud., spons: cce, ccmb, college of arts and letters. 


Doonesbury 
Garry Trudeau 



Molarity / 
Michael Molinelli 


ANOTH~ NAK£D MID FDR NDTR£ ~ME 1.5 
ANOTHE.~ SUCC.C:56F/JL 
57VPENT /5 CAUq/-11 NUPE ANATOYI/E~ RJ::qULATION CORPS 





ACROSS 26 Birthstone 
1 Tuileries for Novem-Gardens, ber for one 27 Hockey's 
5 Bottle size Bobby 
9 Krazy -28 Drawing 12 Sheltered room 13 "Pagliacci" 30 "Pagliacci" 
clown heroine 14 Straight 34 Clears away 
beam 36-out 16 TV part (just beat) 17 Sounds 38 Coin of 
familiar Teheran 19 Cuts of 39 Sahara meat stopover 21 Cask 41 Charm, for 
stoppers example 22 Poorest 43 Hacienda 23 Retinues lady: abbr. 24 Occasional 44 Disrepu­
china table 
Monday's Solution 
.f 
' / 

Alexander Ginzburg Soviet Dissident 
Speaking on: 
The Continuing Human Rights Struggle in the USSR 
April 30, 1981 8:OOpm. Library Auditorium 
Workshop-Question and Answer Period 
May1, 1981 10:OOam. Library Lounge 
~ 
Admission for both is free 
~ 
Sponsored by Student Union Academic Commission and Committee on Academic Progress 

46 Tooted 48 Hard sub­
stances 50 Urbane 51 Offenbach's 
"La Belle 
_.. 

52 French 
composer 55 Arsenals 57 a followers 58 Limetree 59 EarlyTV 
program 60 Irish John 61 Ship's bend 62 Part of 
USA: abbr. 63 Greek peak 
DOWN 1 Launch 
sites 2 Et­3 Astern 4 Instruments 
forCasals 5 Nub 6 Tourist 
meccas 7 Work on 
stone 8 Even chance 9 Fifth wheel 
at the card 

table 10 Poplar 11 Legends 13 Operatic 
hero 15 Literary 
monogram 18 Of bees 20 Mineral 
earths 23 Unitsof loudness 24 Corrida 
star 25 Silkworm 26 Disdainful, 
old style 29 Onuses 31 Prescribes 32 Challenge 33 "Whenl 
was-.•." 35 Affection­ate 37 Composer 
Claude 40 Ladd role 42 Ceylon 
products 45 Look 
out!: Sp. 47 Exceedingly 48 Apportions 49 Remove, 
in law 50 Philippine island 
51 White House 
monogram 52 Fashion 53 Greek 
letters 54 Salad fish 56 Mynheer's 
uncle 

Cf'Qat\~ and 6Qowetts in the <:Basement o~ $£ev\A.ons 

~peri.aQ dL~rou11t 011 Qa~ge qua11tity o!rd.e~ (a11y bQow~) 
Ca~~ 284-5891 oft stop b~ 

I 


The Observer -Sports Tuesday, April28, 1981 -page 9 
............................~~---~~-..~~~--..

I RIVER CITY RECORDS 
1 Northern Indiana's Largest Selection of Albums & Tapes. 1 Why pay more any place else? I 
1 $l OO OFFfany regul~r ~ecord or tape with ad. I 
Cubs stand with tradition 
CHICAGO (AP)-For 35 years, the Chicago Cubs camouflaged futility by scattering a few victories among many losses. 
But with I2 straight setbacks in the young I98I season, the chronic National League doormat can't hide behind fleeting good times any lon­ger-
The last time the Cubs lost 12 in a row was in I944, when they set the club record of I3 stra(ght defeats. A year later, the North Siders won their last pennant. 
But that doesn't mean they will cop the Nl flag next season, or in the forseeable future. The plain fu.ct is that thl~ team, now shouldering a 1­
continuedfrom page 12 
death of her. 
"l't·ggy never quits -she tries twke as hard ao; anybody elst• on the team. People are amazed when they see some of the things she does in spite ofher size." 
Try ao; she might, Walsh cannot completely dlo;regard her height when she steps onto the court. 
"I get so many lobs," she sighs. 
But lately, she has thrown caution to the wind, and has begun to play the net aggressively, something she had been wary ofIn the past. 
"There were a couple of matches in the f.dl that I lost because I didn't come to the net," Walsh explains. They were long three-set matches, and afterwards I was pretty disap­pointed. So I finally decided that I'd have to change things." 
Easier said than done. 
"You just have to keep convincing yourself that you have to do it Ifthe opportunity is right," she says. "You can't be reckless about it and just charge the net wildly, but if the op­portunity is there, you have to take it." 
l.ately, Walsh has taken advantage ofquite a few opportunities. Peggy is currently riding a nine-match win­ning streak, which she'll try to stretch at 3:30 p.m. this afternoon when the Irish play host to St. Mary's in their final dual match of the season at the Courtney Tennis Cen­ter. 
As the I9-6 Irish shoot for their first 20-vlctory season ever, Walsh will be taking aim at triumph No. 26 at her number-six singles spot. And don't get the idea that the ftve-foot dynamo ha.o; been pounding lumps on scrawny opponents. Two of the victories In her nine-match tear have saved Notre Dame from 9-0 whitewashlngs. 
Walo;h's 25-9 1980-81 season Is a pka~ant turnabout from a nightmarish sophomore campaign, during which she played in just two matches after recovering from a broken leg. But that frustrating year prohably tells more about Peggy Walsh than any statistic you could I 3 record, is bad. 
Cub hitters -even I980 Nl bat­ting champion Bill Buckner -are embarrassing the big leagues; the· pitchers are giving batting practice 
in real games, and the defense is poor. 
Maybe some people think practice makes perfect, but not everyone. Manager joey Amalfitano ordered members ofthe Nl's Titanic team not to work out at Wrigley Field Monday, a welcome off-day. 
"I think it's good to keep them away from here," observed Amal­fitano. "When you go through some­thing like this, there is a tendency to 
dig up. 
After hreaking her leg during a Fourth of july softball game, Walsh actually tried out for and 'made the Irish squad in August while the leg was still broken. She stopped playing only when she failed the physical and x-rays showed that the leg hadn't healed. 
"That was. pretty foolish," Walsh shrugs. "I wasn't very good, because alii could do was hop around on one leg. But I knew something was wrong because it hurt." 
Her "ridiculous" determination, as she describes It, becomes more than a little ironic when you con­sider that Walsh owns a 3.9 grade­point average in chemistry, think too much, which makes you try too hard. 
"I think about the fans as well. God love 'em. In the '60s and '70s, when I was here as a coach, they 
were the most supportive, loyal fans in the country. I hope they will con­tinue into the '80s." 
The Cubs' latest humiliation was Sunday, a 6-2 loss that gave the visit­
ing Philadelphia Phillies a three­game sweep. The losing skein began April II against the Mets at home, bu the Cubs managed to stave off futility April 13 and April 23 -off­days -and April 14, when they 
were frozen out in Montreal. 
.Walsh 
, "There is some conflict hetween studying and playing," she says. "But I like it because I couldn't do just one. I could never study all day." 
ll's rather mind-boggling tq think what Walsh might have done had she devoted all of her time and determination t'o tennis. Instead, she has accumulated enough credits to graduate at mid-semester next year (although she won't ifshe makes the tennis squad), and she'll spend her summer on campus doing research. 
Only one thing boggles the mind even more -the notion that a girl with enough Intelligence to explore the diffusion theory of the energy transfer process in photosynthesis would be crazy enough to play ten­

dramatically dispelling any notions nis on a broken leg. about a dumb jock. 
Jt' 
* *FOR LADIES ONLY! 
*
* SMO .t •» SII.IOB •I&RT OU!f
*
* 
Jt-Direct from Hawaii and Las Vegas
*
* in tfleir grand h~ecamlng to Mlchiana ... 



IFA~T 


iFNEODY
.. 
.. 
: & The Playboys!
..
*"a class act of singing, comedy
*ancl dance for the ladles" 
: SB.IOB •I&R'rS: : fturaday May 7 and : fturaday May 14 
:_pnner's Saloon • Downtown South Bend 
* 

Limitied advance Uckets on sale 
now ati River Oitiy Records 50970 U.S. 81 •orth Admission $8.00 Call 277-4242 for further informaUon 
The hottest male go-go 
,..,,.,on: . *
* 
• Phil Donahue lt­
• ABC 20/20 : 
• 
Today Show. * 

• 
Time Magazme * 

• 
Playboy Magazine 



show In the natlonf *********************** 
Mudenti Union 





RlfRIGIRATOR DROP-orr fRIDAY, MAY 1st 



11:30 am-7:30 pm 
Back door of Stepan Center 
-rrtcu aut be cltllllcl ancl clefroatecl (elH $8.00 fee) -Lou tf 4qollt for Ul'lhrllld nfrl&traton 
1
1 • •
I 50970 US 31 North 13 miles North of Campus 
• next to Al's Supermarket I 277-4242
& 

Lamat 1 per person Expires May 20,1981 1 
eOpen till 10 every night ~ e ND/SMC checks cashed I up to $20 over purchase amount 
eRecord Crates available 
1 

.................................................... 
AfterJOUI" last exam, whattoughquestions will you stillbe facing? 

W don·t have your answers. But we·11 listen to your questions, 
share some of our own about who we want to become and where we want to journey. For anyone who has considered the ~th of priesthood, the Holy Cross Fathers· One-Year Candidate Program provides an .opportunity to ask and explore the possibilities in community. 
Contact: Rev. Andre Leveille. C.S.C. 
Vocation Dir~or Box541 ~ 
• Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 283-6385 



ICELANDAIR~ 



S EUROPE 
T $199 
A 

ONE 
N WAY 
D 
CHICAGO TO LUXEMBOURG 
8 
y 

VALIDITY  STANDBY  
PERIODS  ONE WAY  
May 7-May 31  $199  
June 1 -Sep 14  $249  
Sep 15-Oct 31  $199  

DAYS OF DEPARTURE TUESDAY Ill THURSDAY 
SEE YOUR TRAVEL AGENT FOR DETAILS OR CALL IC.ELANDAIR TOLL FREE AT 800·223-5390 
RESERVATIONS MAY BE MADE ON THE DAY OF DEPARTURE AT THE AMERICAN AIRLINES TICKETING OFFICE AT 2 S. LASALLE ST., CHICAGO, ILL. OR, AT THE KLM AIRLINES COUNTER AT O'HARE AIRPORT. 
Fare subject to change and governmental approval 
ICELANOAIR !f/1 lftLL YOUII ...T VAL..TO .UIION 



TheObserver Tuesday, Apri128, 1981 -page 10 

continuedfrom page 12 
be in the starting lineup." 
Another "good problem" for Blache is at the fullback slot as juniors-to-bejohn Sweeney and Lar­ry Moriarty are ·waging a dead-heat battle for the starting position. In Saturday's scrimmage, though, Moriarty picked up 4 3 yards on eight carries while also reaching the end zone twice. Sweeney picked ~ 25 yards on seven carries. 
"Moriarty has a lot of natural ability and is a hard worker," says Blache ofthe 6-2, 234-pounder, "He is more adept with his speed and maneuverability than Sweeney so he very well could beat outjohn. 
"But Jphn is one tough, ex­
perienced (two-year starter) com­
petitor," continues Blache. "There is 
just a certain soundness in him. If 
you'd ever be trapped in a foxhole, 
he's the type you'd want around for 
help. He has good knowledge of the 
game in general, and works well 
with the inside and blocking games. 
The main edge that Sweeney (6-2, 
225 pounds) has is experience for 
now." 
Others in the battle for fullback 
are current-sophomore Rodney 
Morris and walk-ons Steve Hilbert, 
Dave Swoboda and)effBanko.­
At halfback, one ofthe "aces" from last season returns. Although there will be better balance in running plays, one still could expect him to 
be at least a "king" of the backfield. 
"'Phil Carter is more than I ever expected," praises Blache of his 5­10, 193-poun'd junior-to-be co­captain. "He's one of those people that jumps right above everyone in a crowd. He's just a winner, and he'll give whatever it takes to win." Car­ter had 93 yards on 18 carries Satur­
day. 
Should Carter go down with an injury like last year which caused him to miss halfofthe season, Blache remains confident that a back-up could take up the slack like Stone did last year. 
"Greg Bell (sophomore-to-be, 6­0, 195 pounds) is improving every day. He's working as hard as anybody, and could be easily start­ing. He'll be playing a lot for us this year." Saturday he gained 59 yards on 15 carries. 
"john Mosley (sophomore-to-be, 6-1, 190 pounds) is aiso a good tail­hac.~ He's a good outside runner, but needs some work right now on inside awareness and blocking." (Picked up 34 yards on I 0 carries, Saturday) 
Since Barber has elected not to 
return to the gridiron for his senior 
season, the tailback position elder 
statesman will be senior Bernie 
Adell, while walk-on joe Batuelo is 
aiso working with the tailbacks. 
Come August, there should be something else that Blache may come to appreciate a lot -three of the best high school pospects in the nation for a coliege backfield. 
ay now, the average Notre Dame fan has heard of two. of the Parade 

ATTENTION ALL GRADUATING STUDENTS 

avall.asl€ 1n 
._c____bu€ sv 7:00 p.m. apRtl 28._.__?.~ 

a&1LiJ~&! ~~auF~ ~un.Iilll ~'iJJcDW<lD~ 




Drop-off your rug, couch , chair or lamp at Stepan Wednesday 6-ll, 
HALL Sorin, Walsh, Badin, Howard 
Morrissey, Lyons 

Fisher, Pangborn, Dillon, Alumni Measurements will be taken for Cavanaugh, Zahm
Caps and Gowns 
Breen-Phillips, Farley 

Monday April 27 Tuesday April 28 
Keenan, Stanford, Between 9:00-4:00 
Lewis at the Off-Campus 
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 
• • • Backfield 
all-America prospects Mark 

or Thursday 1-6 or load it on the truck at the following places and times; 
APRIL 
Brooks, the massive 6-3, 219-pound Ohio AAA Player of the Year from Moeller, and Van Pearcy, the 6-2, 190-pound 9.4 100-yard dash sprin­ter from Texas. 
But many scouts believe that Chris Smith, a 6-2, 215-pound prospectfrom LaSalle High School in Cincinnati, and a thirdParade selec­tion may be the best of the bunch. joe Terranova, considered the dean of analyzing top high school talent, said in last w«:k's issue ofSport's Il­lustrated that Smith "may be the on­ly player in America to compare favorably with Herschel Walker (from a physical standpoint)." 
The talk ofany three ofthem start­
ing next fall has run rampant, but 
Blache prefers to remain low-key 
about the situation. 
"It excites me," maintains Blache, "but once they come out to our practice field here, they can throw their press clippings out the win­dow. I don't think that you should ever count on a freshman to come in and contribute right away. Anything good you gain from a first-year player during the season is a plus. I'd hate to have to bank on a freshman to come in and help us right away. 
Whoever will be in the Notre 
Dame backfield come September, 
Gerry Faust's "New Deal" should 
please everyone. 
IRISH ITEMS: More notes from Saturday's scrimmage: Tackle Tom Bock had an interception for the No. 1 defense...Linebackers Mark Zavag­nin, Rick Naylor and Steve Cichy all had good performances. Cichy, working with the second unit. made two straight stops at the goal line before Phil Carter's one-yard plunge opened the scoring...in the s punting department, Kiel punted four times for an average of 40.8 yards, includ­ing one 54-yarder after he scoopt·d 
up a bouncing snap...Brian Whelan had a .30.4 average for seven punts, his longest a 46:yard kick...Harry Oliver, with Dave Condeni holding, missed two of his five extra-point at­tempts...linebacker Bob Crable and wingback Tony Hunter sat out Satur­day's scrimmage, and will not play in this week's Blue-Gold gam.e... "There's no sense in taking a chance in playing them for just one week," ~ays Faust. "We want them both at full health next year." 
LOCATION Behind Bookstore 

Basketball Courts behind Lyons Behind South Dining Hall 
Next to the Band Hall By the Old Fieldhouse Behind Stanford 
Campus View 
29 5:00­5:50 
6:00­6:50 
7:00­
7:50 
8:00­
8:50 
9:00­
9:50 10:00­10:50 
11:00­11:50 
30 1:00­1:30 
1:40­2:10 
2:20­2:50 
3:00­3:30 
3:40­4:10 
4:20­4:50 
5:00­5:30 



Football and hockey ticket applications and in­In their first televised home gamesfor the 
SportsChannel cable network, the Notre Dame baseball team swept a ets is being handled somewhat differently than in past years, but the formation were mailed out Monday. The sale and distribution of tick­
doubleheader from Northwestern yesterday. In the first game, catcher forms currently in campus mail are quite self-explanitory. The 
Jim Montagano went 2-for-4 and drove in three runs to give the Irish, deadline for returning the 1981 football ticket application is June 20. and starter Steve Whitmeyer a 10-2 victory. In the second game, The due date for the 1981-82 hockey ticket application in August 15. George lams and Henry Valenzuela had three hits a piece, enabling Any student wishing to return their application to the ticket office Notre Dame to get by the Wildcats, 8-7. The Irish hiked their season before they leave for the summer is encouraged to do so. If any stu­record to 18-14-l. -The Obseroer 
dent docs not receive an application this week, they MUST contact Steve Orsini at the ticket office ( 7354) before they leave for the sum­Notre Dame golfers finished 13th in the Mid­mer. -The Obsen•er American Invitational meet held at The Moors in Portage, Mich. Sun­
day and yesterday. Bob Horak's 225 was good enough to put him in a tie for third place in the tournament Minnesota won the event, which featured 96 golfers representing 16 MAC, Big Ten, and IndependentThe Notre Dame Lacrosse team evened its schools. -The Obseroer 

Midwest Lacrosse Association retord at 4-4, and its overall mark at 5-5, with a 10-9 overtime decision over interdivisional rival· Kenyon The Montreal Allouettes have announced that Saturday afternoon on Stepan field. Mike Lynch, Steve Linehan, Steve Vince Ferragamo will be throwing passes, and James Scott will be Pearsall, and Danny Pace each scored a pair ofgoals for the Irish. Notre streaking down the sidelines to catch them, when the Canadian Foot­Dame, who also thumped the Chicago Lacrosse Club,16-12, in an ex­
ball League Club opens the 1981 season. Ferragamo, the NFC's hibition match Sunday, will face divisional foe Ohio State in Columbus 
second-leading passer last season with the Los Angeles Rams, and Thursday. The Irish must defeat the Buckeyes, and Ashland College 
Scott, a starter with the Chicago Bears, played out their options and Saturday, while OSU must lose to Michigan State as well, in order for 
signed as free-agents. Ferragamo's four-year pact is believed to be Notre Dame to clinch the University Division title. -The Obseroer 
worth at least 11400,000 a year. Scott signed a three-year deal. -AP 

National Hockey League Playoffs Semifinal Round 
Best of Seven 
Today's Gamea New York Rangers at NY Islanders Minnesota at Calgary 
Thursday' a Gamea New York Rangers at NY Islanders Minnesota at Calgary 
Saturday, May 2 New York Islanders at NY Rangers Sunday, May 3 Calgary at Minnesota 
Tuesday, May 5 New York Islanders at NY Rangers Calgary at Minnesota 
Thursday, May 7 New York Rangers at NY Islanders. 1f necessary Minnesota at Calgary. if necessary 
Saturday, Ma'J !1 or Sunday, May 10 New York Islanders at NY Rangers, if necessary Calgary at Minnesota. 1f necessary 
Tuesna)•, May 12 New York Rangers at NY Islanders. if necessary Minnesota at Calgary, if necessary 
L-------------------------------------------------------------------------~
,----------------·--------------------------------------------------------------------. 
.. 

AI! rl.tssrl!l'\1 acls rnusl hP fP.I'er"fHl b'lo; 4 45 p m lwn d.JyS IJri,J' ~o 1~e ·~ •.._,,,, 111 ....vhrd1 tlw Ht r\ nm ThE> Observer ,.Jfrce wrll ,1rrep1 ciJ~s•freds MorHI.n •hrll•rlJh FrrdiH 10 00 ,, m to 3 00 p m .1\rt r.la)srlrt~d:, 'l1USI be 
p1r· l)clrll 1 •"'H'r _.. ~H'r~d'n or through till;! rn ..u~



Classifieds 

c·· NOTICEo 
INSTANT CASH PAID FOR CLASS RINGS $20-$85 OR MORE. WE MAKE HOUSE CALLS. 255·2402. 
TYPING -Only $.65 a paiJe. Call Dan. 272-55<49 
PROFESSIONAL TYPING. Term papers. theses, etc. Tape transcnption. Last year's same low prices. All work guaranteed aardvark automaflc solu­tions 289-8753. 
WILL DO TYPING CALL 287-5182. 
B1g profits! Your own wholesale busi­ness 2,000 fasl-sellmg items. Free success details I Horizons. Box eo20-Z, Umversal City, Calif 9teo8. 
WE CLONE CASSEITESIII Bnng any cassette mto our store and you can make as many copies as you want FREE by Simply purchasmg our Rezound copy cassettes. PLUS w1th a 50 percent off coupon we will sell you !he first caasette at one-half price. Copy eo mmute tapes m two mmutes. 90 minutes m three mmutes. both sides simultaneoualyl Offer good through May 31, 1981 al Hammes Notre Dame Bookatore 
WILL THE STUDENTS WHO TOOK MY TWO LEPRECHAUNS FROM MY FRONT PORCH OVER THE WEEKEND FOR A PARTY, PLEASE RETURN THEM NO QUESTIONS ASKED. IF NECESSARY, CALL 23<4-7332. 
Do YOU need a roommate? boarder? houses11ter? I Will be staymg m South Bend for the summer. and I need living space Please call Alex at3255. 
INTERNSHIPS are available m Criminal Justice and Urban Studies. These inter­nships are for 2 semesters. For more in· formation, contact Prof. Vasol1 att357 or 287-7996. 
NEW JERSEY BUS 
There are still a few seats left 1 . The bus stops In Easl Brunswick and NYC. $73 mcludes return trip 1n August. Call Mike McClure at x1207 Seats are reserved by payment only. 
Come to the Annual AnTostal Dinner! 
6:30 p m. Thurs. at Hans Haus Res­taurant tickets av•ilable m 142 Farley 
CRYSTAL w111 be available for engage­ments through graduation. Reduced rates for all. Call Bill at 6823, Steve at 1398, or Douganandy at272-1643. 
ILOST/FOUND I 
LOST ONE GOLD WATCH BETWEEN WALSH AND HAYES HEALEV BEFORE EASTER BREAK IF FOUND. PLEASE CALL JANE eo45. 
LOST· Light blue-dark blue ra1n slicker at Senior Bar on Wednesday mghl. Has car t<eya in pocket Please call Sheila at 4-1-4421 
LOST One BILL BOLANGER -1f found. please do NOT return I (Jual get­ling even, Bllll) 
Found. large wh1le dog. To claim. call 1983 or 1967 
FOUND. PAIR OF GLASSES in Sen1or Bar on Aprll22. Call Mike at3158. 
.. . . .. . LOST: PAIR OF GLASSES IN BROWN CASE IN D2 SATURDAY NIGHT. CALL ANNE. 6932 LOST: Gold digital watch around N1euwland or Math Bldg. last Friday. Call Greg at 83t4 II found. Reward is BIG BUCKSIII 
FOR RENT -UGLY DUCKLING RENT­A-CAR FROM $7.95 A DAY AND 7 CENTS A MILE. PHONE 259-UGL Y FOR RESERVATIONS. 
AVAILABLE. SUMMER AND NEXT SCHOOL YEAR 5 BEDROOM HOUSE. 1 AND 3 BEDROOM APARTMENTS 234-2626 
House For Rent 919 So. Bend Ave. 5 bedrooms. 2 baths Call Tom McGann 277-3461 0( 272-9299 
House for SUMMER-LOW RENT OR WORK FOR RENT CALL 277-3461 OR 272-9299 
STAYING IN SOUTH BEND THIS SUM­MER? RENT OUR CAMPUS VIEW APARTMENT. 2 BEDROOMS, 2 BATHROOMS. FULLY FURNISHED. CHEAPIII CALL CATHY 4-1-4380 AF­TER6P.M. 
summer sublet -2br townhouse With washer & dryer. Great apt. rent nego. 277-8158. 
Near ND. Furn. Apt. Utils. May 15. Sum­mer. FaiL Small house turn. May 28, Summer, Fall. 272-6t 74 
·-----·---]·
WANTED
l__ 
------·­
TENNIS INSTRUCTORS WANTED: Ex­cellent high paying Summer ;obs for students with tennis experience. Call Pat at (301) 654-3770. 
NEED AIDE to Miami-Ft. Lauderdale AFTER GRADUATION for I or 2 people. Call John Higgins at 8553 or 1715and leave a message. 
........\ .. Rich cousin needs 4 GA tickets for USC game in taiL Call4373" 
.................. 
WANTED A VOLKSWAGON ('72-'76). 
MUST BE IN GOOD RUNNING CONDI­
TION. CONVERTIBLE IS PREFERRED. 
CALLCATH 4-1-4380 AFTER 6 P.M. 
IMMEDIATE OCCUPANCY! CAMPUS VIEW APARTMENT AVAILABLE FOR RENT IN MAY. 2 BEDROOMS, 2 BATHS, FULLY FURNISHED CHEAPIll CALL GAY 4-1-4441 AFTER 11 PM 
All right. I'll settle for a ride ANYWHERE 1n Florida AFTER GGRADUATION.The closer to Miami the better. Call John H1ggins at 8553 or 1715and leave a message. 
Need 2 11ckets to Graduation. Call Bill 1535 
Riders wanted to California (San Fran­CISCO area) Leav1ng NO on or around May 19 (flexible). Call Jaime between 7:11 p.m. 3852. 
PURDUE STUDENT NEEDS TO SUB­LEASE AN APARTMENT FOR SUM­MER. SEND OFFERS TO 1059 WILEY. 
W. LAFAYEITE, IND. 47906 OR CALL 317-493-9236. CLOSER TO MISHA­WAKA PREFERRED. 
Ride to Columbus. Oh. (OH.ST.) May 1. Please· call5255 SMC. Share expenses. 
l 
Do YOU need a roommate? boarder? housesitter? I will be staying in South Bend lor the summer, aand I need living space. Please cal Alex at 3255. 
NEED RIDER TO LOS ANGELES. LEAVING MAY 12. SPLIT COSTS. CAR GETS 32 MPG. GOOD STEREO. CALL JIM 283-1148. 
End 'Of Year Models going quickly. Gel an Oft Campus Roommate; gel a rebale. Comes with all slandard equip­ment and many extra features. Low mileage, hardly any gas. Call Mike 1795. 
Ride needed to Wash. DC. Can leave anyt1me alter 1:00pm on Sat .. May 10 or anytime on Sun.. May II. Callll53. 
-·-----·------·1 
r FOR SALE l 
'---+---· --· -----~---'"""·--' 
1974 VW Super Beetle Good condition, Good mileage Call277-7160 
For sale. 72 pontiac catalina. call ERIN 234-6298 
For sale: snow tires in excellent condi­tion. call277-8839 after 7 pm. 
1974 FORD GALAXY PS-PB-AT-AC EXCELLENT RUNNING CONDITION. $500 OR BEST OFFER. 283-8573. 
FOR SALE: YASHICA TLX 35MM WITH VIVATAR 70-210 ZOOM. 28MM WIDE ANGLE FLASHER, FILTENT, CASE. CALL MAJOR BURNS 7274. 
For Sale -1968 Ford Custom 500. Good cond1tion. Call SMC 4526. 
SUPER BACKPACK FA JO 7118 
FOR SALE: Couch, Easy Chalf, Skis (with bindings). Toaster-Broiler, End Tables. Call1943. All in good condtion. 
FRENCH-BUILT BICYCLE 30 lbs., 23" frame, great con d., $105-call3189 
cTICKETS I 
I need 3 (that's three) graduation tick­ets. (Yes, folks, it's starling already.) If you can help me, call Scoop at 1772. 
NEEDED MANY TICKETS FOR GRADA­TION. CALL TIM AT 1650 OR 1868 
Need Graduation tickets w111 pay handsomely call Rick 1932 
Will pay for graduation tickets. Please contact Lorna ASAP II 277-8348 or 283­7097 
Need ONE Grad ticket. Will pay. Call Rich at287-6596. Thanks. 
HELP! 3 UTILE BROS AND SISTERS WANT TO SEE BIG SIS GRADUATE. GOT ANY EXTRA TIX? CALL DENISE AT eeo3. 
One of the former members of the Car­penters band used to live down the street from me. Therefore, you should sell me your graduation tickets. It this doesn't make sense call Mike at 232­0921 
I dominated Joe Kleine's high school basketballeam.lfyou don't believe me, or if you do, and have any graduation tickets call Kent at 232-0921. 
REWARD: LOVING AUNT WILL PAY BIG BUCKS TO SEE GODCHILD GRADUATE. NEED ONE TICKET. CAll DANNY3636. 
TICKET REBATE; Make your best deal with me (and I am very desperate) then get a $5.00 rebate direct from Dad I Please, please sell me your grad. tick­ets. John 233-6573 
NEED MANY TIX TO GRADUATION. WILL PAY. CALLJIMAT3647 
DESPERATELY need 3 or 4 GRAD TICKETS, Please call277-8757. 

[.~~.ERSONALS] 
STUDENTS!!! IF YOU LIVE ON THE NORTHSIDE CHICAGO AREA. CALL US NOW! WE WANT BRIGHT, AGGRESSIVE STU­DENTS TO SELL RADIO ADS OVER THE PHONE. THIS SUMMER, NATIONWIDE. SUPER PAY POTEN­TIALI IF YOU QUALIFY. WE'LL GUARANTEE YOU POSITION AND PAY I CALL TIM-FREE-9:00-5:00, MON. THRU FRI. CALL NOWI 1-eoo­621-6426. 
SENIORS: Are you tired ot being rejected? Have we just conceded to the ultimate rejection ...A rejection of rejec­tion night? Let's let the staff of Senior Bar know how we feel and reject their rejection of our greatly deserved rejec­tion night. 
CONNECTICUT CLUB: reservations for the baggage truck with FULL PAY­MENT must be made by Wednesday April 29. reservations can be made in person from 7-9 p.m. on Wednesday in the Student Center. The truck load on May 11. and unload on May 14 in Hartford. Any questions contract Bill at 1620. 
WILL THERE BE A REJECTION NIGHT? 
IF OFF-CAMPUS HOUSING IS COS­TING YOU ABOUT $100 A MONTH AND YOU ARE NOT GEITING THE BEST, CALL 291-1405. 
Foreign Policy; the End of Human Rights? An Informal Debate Professors: Walshe, Loescher, Hommes Tuesday, April288:00 pm Walsh Hall-South Lounge 
JESUIT VOLUNTEER CORPS repre­sentative to be in Volunteer Services Office, 1.5 LaFortune on Wednesday 4­29-81 between I:00 and 5:00 to inter­VIeW persons interested in making application. 
Die you imperialist dogs! 
--vote­
-QBREMSKEY 
-HENSON 
-QGREN 
-ROSS 
'For Finance Club 
on April 29th. 
see frank shepherd as robert frost april29. 1981 
8:00 library auditorium 
robert frost live! 8:00p.m. library auditorium tuesday, apri128, 1981 
si~d~~i-·P-,~~~;· F~ii··,;i;~~~~;·~~~;~h' 
Sign-up to be one at Student Union by May!. 
Sign-up for Fall Student Player director at Student Union by May 1. 
Desperate: Need to complete music collection before going over-seas. Need the following lor recording purposes: Stones-Hot Rocks & Fazed Cookies, Goatshead Soup. Flowers. Metamorphosis; Beatles-Rubber Soul. Magical Mys_tery Tour; David Bowie­Hunky Dory;'Stevie Winwood-Arc ot a Diver; Eric Clapton-Siow Hand, Back­less, Another Ticket; Grateful Dead­Bears Cheice; Doors-Soft Parade; Jef­ferson Airplane-Surrealistic Pillow; Jethro Tull-Stand Up, Minstrel in the Gallery. Passion Ptlly. The greatest care will be provided to the records which wil be so gracious to lend their records. Please call-Bill 15SS, Tom 6891', or Don 6718. 
MUST HAVE 6.(Yes that was SIX). GRADUATION TIX 111111111111111111 WILL PAY ANY REASONABLE PRICE. CALL ANNE at 6872 ...1f I'm not in try again, it Will be worth your while. 
PHOTOGRAPHERS WHO DID NOT PICK UP THEIR APPLICATIONS AND PHOTOGRAPHS FROM THE OB­SERVER: THE LAST DAY TO PICK THEM UP IS ON APRIL 29 FROM 2:00 TO 4:00PM. IF THEY ARE NOT PICKED UP AT THAT TIME, THEY WILL BE DISPOSED OF. 
SENIORS: EVERYONE ON STAGE FOR THE HAWAIAN NUMBERIII 'A THOUSAND CLOWNS' THURSDAY NIGHT OF SENIOR WEEK. 
Joliet Jake and Elwood Bluze bring the blues to Notre Dame Friday 9:30 p.m. Washington Hall 
One Night Only -The Bluze Brothers Show Band and Rhythm Revue Wash­ington Hall Friday 9:30p.m. $1 Benefits Andy Sowder Scholarship Fund 
"We're on a mission from God" Friday night-Washmgton Hall 
David, Roses are red Chocolate milk is brown You sure were a jerk When the tuck-in service came around. 
Cathy 
To my rafting buddy-thanks for sharing the pain I 
STEFE II Please disregard this. Sin­cerely, Enrie . 
Want to run? Enter the Right-to-Life Jog-a-thont Sun May 3RD Oulooor Track,ACC. Sponsor Forms in LaFortune. 
PIITSBURGH CLUB LUGGAGE 
TRUCjK --Loading w1ll be SATURDAY. 
MAY~TH. • 
STEPAN 10:30-11 :30 
BOOKSTORE 12:30-1 :30 
LEMANS (SMC) 4:00 · 5:00 (Elections w111 also take place at all three stops for next year's officers.) 
.......... 
MEG--YOU LOOKED GOOD AT THE 
MUDPITS SATURDAY. I HOPE YOU'RE 
LOOKING FORWARD TO NEXT YEAR. 
HEY OLD COLLEGE! The NEW SEMI­
NARIANS 8lrlke 11t181nt You re811y out­did yoursetv" end llt..,ka lor Ute gr..tttme. H•v• a fun IIUIIImer. YourBtnC, TheDwlllf 
DEAR NANCY. 
Just a note to say hello and let everyone know how WILD you are. Dancing on tables at the WEST SIDE DEMOCRATIC CLUB ... YOU ARE TOO WILD I 
Waller 
DAN I'M SUREtll YOU'RE TOO SWEET! THANKS FOR THE FLOWERS YOU MADE MY DAY I MARV 

To All (Molly, CBA. Rebound, Mary, 
J.J.. Manan. Dr. Otto, Daynuh. Junk, and Sox): Thanx lor Friday's 3-4 party, the p1zza. and the presents (no more tears for me II). I was truly surprised. YOU GUYS ARE THE GREATEST II 
Love, Ms. Walker 

ROOM AVAILABLE FOR GRADUATION AT THE HOLIDAY INN AT 31 .. FRI., SAT & SUN. MY PARENTS DON'T WANT TO LOSE THE DEPOSIT. CALL ANNE at 1669. 
THNAKS TO ALL OF MY SCOREKEEPERS, kathy, moya, gina. anne, pia, margr, dave, steve, krls. chris, terri, l1sa. jeanne, & all of the others. Without you we never would have made It through the tournament. anne 
HIGH-C ROB, MB. FRANK, SKIP. GARY, BRIAN. BETSY & RICH. THANKS FOR A GREAT THREE WEEKS. I'VE GOT MY RESERVATION FOR NEXT YEAR ALREADY anne 
Need Riders to Houston! After gradua­tion. Dave 3<402 
CRYSTAL ROCKS CRYSTAL ROCKS CRYSTAL ROCKS At FAT WALLY'S!!! Saturday May 2 Be there aloha. 

the film club presents.. HIGH NOON 7, II, 11 tonight Engineering Auditorium -one m•e dotl•r 
high noon tonight high noon tonight high noon tonight 

HIGH NOON TONIGHT 
-------SELL SOMETHING···-··· ····---SELL SOMETHING-'····· AT THE STEPAN FURNITURE AUCTION THURSDAY 6:00-? DROP OFF PLACES AND TIMES POSTED AROUND CAMPUS 
Thanks to Steve Carbury and Co., for a great time and plenty of foot stomp­. mg... from the Barn 
DONKEY BASKETBALL DONKEY BASKETBALL DONKEY BASKETBALL FRIDAY MAY 1 8.00 STEPAN CENTER 
AMBr. 
Hurry, don't let your screen or con­geniality and m11th degenerate terminally 1nto the true animosity and suspicion you seem to thnve on. 
Extremely Observant 

The Sludenta Concern~ about CommenctHnent Will hold a rally Wed­nesday at 4 pm 1n front of the South Dining Hall to protest the appearance of President Reagan at commence­ment. Come. if you are concerned about Presidenl Reagan's presence at our graduation. 
Gomg to Northern California after graduation? W1sh you were gomg to California? Need a new mantra? An all-organic, all~ natural diet? Ready to see an earthquake first-hand? Weel, you can have 11 all, and more If you join us on our journey to the sun: mmimum eo mph: fun and laughs guaranteed as we pass by the Midwest cornfields; roomy car (and back seat. nudge. nudge); and at no extra coat to you· you share the exl"'nsaa. Interested? Not really, but maybe? Reply now: Observer Travel Bureau, 
P.O. Box 0, campus mail. 
Yes, VIrginia, we •e going to Catltor­nial 
Tuesday, April28, 1981-page 12
S~orts 
Who'll get the ball? 
Irish to spread chores 
By LOUIE SOMOGYI tack," says Blache who was with the year," explains Blache of the switch Sports Writer Irish as an assistant coach at the of the 6-5, 211-pound junior. "As a time. "We'll be more diversified this wingback he can handle the ball 
For the past two years, the balance year. The fullback will be used more, maybe 20 times a game through rus­ofpower in the Notre Dame running and the wingback will be a very im­hing and receiving. We definetly attack has been perhaps the weakest portant part of the offensive set. want the ball more in the hands ofan intricacy ofthe team. We'll have eight or nine different excellent athlete like him." 
In 1979, Vagas Ferguson rushed formations, and then some slight However, because of an ankle in­for 1,432 yards. Ty Barber was variations. There will be something jury to Hunter, and a sterling spring second in yardage gained rushing for everyone misdirection, performance by senior Tim Tripp, the same year with 172 yards. Last power-1, split backs, full house... It's Hunter has been alternating with the year, two aces at tailback combined a hcckuva offensive system. The second unit with walk-on Greg Wil­for 378 carries while the top two players just love it." liamson. Other performers at glorified guards... uh... fullbacks, had wingback include Chris Stone, Tom 77 carries between them. The third Merrick andjohn Murphy. man in the backfield attack, flanker "I honestly don't know how it's
Spring Football'81. 

Pete Holohan, had just one carry. going to tum out and who'll start," 
It's not that people didn't want to says Blache of the Tripp-Hunter see the football in hands of Fer­dual. "They're creating a very good guson, Jim Stone or Phil Carter. It's There still might be some im­problem for me. Both guys have 
just that "familiarity breeded con­balance in the amount of carries a great ability, and I know that either tempt," because familiarity brecded back will have, but that depends on one could do the job for us. Either opposing seven-man defensive front what defenses opposing teams could move to split end too, so lines prepared to engulf the usual throw at the Irish. there's a chance that both may still Notre Dame tailback sweep. "In working with Coach Faust, 
See BACKFIELD, page 10

This familiarity generally is I've seen that he has just a great in­believed to have been the founda­tuitive sense in going with what's tion of an Impotent Notre Dame of· best for every action. Therefore, the 
fensive attack in the latter stages of number of carries a back may have the past two seasons. Last year tht· , •luld vary from week to week. offense scored hut five touchdowns 
"The tempo and conditions of the 

Bookstore: Weekend reward 
in the last five games -three against 
game will dictate the ratio ofcarries. hapless Air Force, and a fourth at 
If the defense keys on the tailback, Alabama on a two-yard drive. The Sunday's finals of the lOth Annual Bookstore Basket­
our fullback could carry about 25 fifth was the only Irish touchdown of ball Tournament marked the end of a crusade that
times; if it keys on the tailbji.Ck, then th(· Sugar Bowl. began in the fall of 1980. Tournament commissioner
our tailback could run 25 times. Our 

Known to enjoy a card game or Rob Simari, his associates Mary Beth Sterling and Anne
wingback will probably not be a 

two during his free time, Gerry Faust Fink, and their a<>sistants, Skip Desjardin, Gary Grassey
leading balA-carrier, but he too could has taken one fact from poker, etd and yours truly, first met in October B.W. (that's
easily carry the ball 20 times a game 

applied it to the new offensive back· "Before Winter") to determine things like times, dates,
whea the misdirection is going well. field format: A "full house" beats a places and who's buying the aspirin anyway? Eventually
"Ideally, we'd like 20 carries for "pair ofaces." they found a number ofinvaluable people to help them
each back." he continues. "We'd like 

"What Coach Faust is employing out, people like Brian Reimer, Betsy Klug, and Rich stories and basicaHy have a good time. It was a time to
to maintain control of the ball 

is a collection of backfield systems through balance. Yet, we also have O'Connor, without whom the tournament would not celebrate for Simari & Co., who orchestrated a tourna­have run as smoothly. ment that came offpractically without a hitch. likewise
he's encountered over his 20 yeasrs the the big-play potential. There is in coaching, and molded it all to They were nice enough to give me a title -assistant it was a memorable time for Bourret, Meconi and
hardly a play in our system that can't create a transitional attack that is possibly go for the distance be it commissioner in charge ofpublicity -and, ofcourse, I Hoefer who probably still are pinching themselves and exciting and explosive," explains from five yards out, or 85 yards." was vain enough to accept it. In retrospect, however, it wondering how this all got started. the new backfield coach, Greg The new wingback position may was really not much more than that; a title. I had much Maybe it sounds like I'm making a big deal out of a Blache. "If we tried to list all the dif­be the most difficult individual posi­less to do with this year's tournament than the four pre­simple basketball tournament, but when you stop and ferent formations of where and vious that I've been involved with. Perhaps they kept think that all 383 games are scheduled, scored,
tion on the team as well as the most when any ofour backs equid get the demanding. me around for advice? Sage wisdom maybe? Or maybe recorded and reported every night for the duration, you ball, we could blow a computer's "There is a lot of learning and because I'm the only one on the staff who knows what can begin to realize the magnitude ofit all. And it seems mind." TILCS reallymeans? even more unbelievable when you consider that the
thought process involved." says 

In other words, a true balance of But ifI was feeling my age before last weekend, I felt whole thing is run by students, with no assistance
Blache. "The wingback has to be an power is returning in the Irish back­positively antideluvian afterwards. For on this (financial or administrative) from campus organiza­
excellent athlete because the posi­field in the form ofthe wing-T attack weekend, the I Oth anniversary of this crazy madness tions.
tion demands it all -running, that led Notre Dame to the 1973 Na­now refered to as simply "Bookstore" (with acapital B, Ofcourse there are people that must be thanked. Bob
receiving, and blocking." tional Championship when fullback ifyou please) all of the people responsible for it's dis­LoeiDer and his crew who set up the stands behind the
Enter two-year split end Tony Wayne Bullock gained 752 yards, covery and longevity came back to see the monster ACC for th1e finals. Chet and Faith and the people in the
Hunter, who generally is regarded as 

while starting backfield mates Art they created. kitchen who set up the refreshments for people who
the best athlete on the team, if not 

Best and Eric Penick amassed 700 Bone Bourret, Vince Meconi and Fritz Hoefer were in sleep late and blow offbrunch to get a good seat for the
on the campus. and 586 yards, respectively. town to see what might have been the best of the I 0 games.
"As a split end last year, Tony "It's something like the 1973 at-Bookstore final games, and the looks on their faces And there arc more. Many, many more.
handled the ball about 2 S times all throughout the afternoon was alone worth the price of So it's over now, for another year, and the next order admission. of business for Simari is to select the person that will 

Hoefer, the originator ofthe tournament even played replace him as commissioner. Somebody with Hoefer's in the all-star game that preceeded the finals. Interest­enthusiasm, Meconi's energy, Bourret's knowledge, Leo ingly enough, it was the first Bookstore game he'd ever Latz's tact and Simari's own ability to organize and ad­played in, even though he started the tournament in ministrate that is, in my opinion, second to none I've 1972 because h<: wanted to play against the best players ever worked with. on campus. Well, he finally got his chance and, like you Ifyou know anyone like that, tell him to give us a call. might have figured (after all, this is Notre Dame), he hit Oh yeah, if he gets the job, buy him the economy size the shot that won the game for his team. bottle. 
Afterwards, a large group gathered to celebrate, swap Ofaspirin, that is. 



By CRAIG CHV AI. 
Sports Writer 
Frank LaGrotta once wished in a column that he could be six inches taller. What Frank failed to realize was that no matter how tall he was, he'd still be an ovenveight, hyper­active pain in the neck. The National· Basketball Association would laugh if he told them he wanted to go hardship. 
But there is a person on campus 
who could make good use of a little 
added height. At five-foot even, Peg­
gy Walsh is a pretty fair tennis 
player. In three sea<>ons at Notre 
Model student-athlete 

Walsh unlocks success recipe 
Dame, she's earned one state cham­pionship and finished second twice. If she were S-6 or so, Walsh just might be unstoppable. 
"I think it might make a moderate difference if I were four or five inches taller," Walsh admits. "But just an inch or two probably wouldn't matter. 
Walsh doesn't waste much time thinking about her helght. though. In fact, she claims she only became conscious ofit because ofothers. 
"I never considered myself small until people pointed it out to me," she says. "But I think I've gotten used to it, mostly because I've never 
known any other way." 

Still, Walsh often senses an air of overconfidence on the part of her opponent before a matchbegin!i. 
"Most people do that -they say, 'Oh wow, she can hit the hall so hard, and she's so littk.' I don't have a lot of respn·t for that kind of an attitude." 
Even Walsh's teammates are guilty of a little unintentional dis­respect on occasion. 
"When we were freshman, she 
won the whole tournament during 
tryouts," remembers teammate 
Mary Legeay. "We were scared to 
See WALSH, page 9 









