Mass Assassins-page 7 


Close races highlight class elections 
VOL. XV, NO. 119 THURSDAY, APRIL 2, 1981
an md('"pendent student newspaper serving notre dame and saint mary's 
By MIKE DUPLESSIE 
Neu•s Stcclf 
Yesterday's class elections lcaturc:d a st·rks ofclosely contc:stcd rac:c:s, with no t·andidatc: t·apturing a largt· majority of the vote. Tom Koq>\cl. Omhudsman c:lection chair­man. tc:rmed the voter participation in yc:stt'Hiay's dection "t·xcc:llc:nt li1r a run-off." Tht· turnout consisted of 'H.'i paet·nt li1r thc: seniors, 'i7.9 pt•rt·c·nt for juniors and 66. I pcret·nt li1r tht· sophomores. 
Participation was 'excellent for a runoff' 
l.upo, Favret, Lewis, and Olenik garnered the senior class ollices yt·s­tc:rday, defeating the: ticket of St·hult:r, Hammer, Kelley, and Dailey. l.upo's ticket <.·apturc:d 'i3.1 pt·n·ent of tht· vote:, while Schuler's tickt·t earnt·d 46.9 percent. 
Tom Lupo, comnu:nting on the race: statt·d that "there wen· five: good tickets, and all of them put forth 01 lot ofc:tfi1rt and showed a lot of da~s. We: fc:l'l fortunate: to have: hc:en selected hy our dassmatc:s. i\s for Harh, Dave:, Mike and myself we ar<.· looking foward to making next yt·ar a good year for tht· class." 
In tht· most dost'ly nmtestc:d race of tht· day Rowe:, Schuchc:rt, Timko. and llatfkld edged out Mai, Power, McNally and Cooney hy four votes for the junior class positions. Rowe 
Editor's note: The Center for Ex­perh•ntia/ Leaming sponsored a u•eek-hmg seminar in Washington, 
D.C. during semester break. Ob­sen,er reporter Kel/1 Flint par­tidpatecl in the seminar, and gatht'T'etl the following statements from representatives of Congress and the Legccl Sen,ices Corporation conc:emlng President Reagan's budget proposals. 
By KELLI FLINT 
.\'t•nlorStaffReporter 
(iail Fogarty of tht· Counsel for Courts Suht·ommittec on Legal Sc:rvil.:cs Corporation met with the studt·nts about the futurt· of Legal Services. President Reagan has propost·d abolishing legal aid. "Consc:rvativt· Democrats recently cncouragt·d Reagan to eliminate legal aid," Fogarty said. "The con­servative Democrats will have: an innc:asingly significant impact on the: future: of Legal Services. 
"Legal Services offers low salaries, yet ha~ a high application rate," she: added. "There is a high turnover rate:, because: the: lawyers involved in legal aid c:xpc:rlc:ncc: great frustra­tion. These: lawyers always have more: clients coming in for aid than tht•y are able: to handle:. 
"l.c:gal Aid is an effective "safety mustt·rc:d 50.2 percent of the: vote: while: Mai won 49.H percent. 

In the: class of'H4 c:lc:ction, Nanni, Terpin, llenry, and Guillet defeated Thompson, Manley, Giunti, and Ruc:hlmann. Nanni's ticket com­manded 'i 1.4 percent of the vote: to Thompson's 4H.I pt·rcc:nt. 
Nanni echoed tht· sentiments of tht· majority of the candidates "I wo'uld like to t·xtt·ml my sincere ap­preciation tn all thost· pc:rsons who voted for our ticket, and moreover l(>r all those people who helped in our campaign. I would also like: to commend the other tickets on a very competitive and we: II-run race:." Nanni added that his ticket "will he working very hard to make our sophomore year a very c:njoyabk and successful one." 
In the off-campus race Kathy Jurado edged Anne Slowey for the position of 0-C commissioner. Jurado earned 'i4.6 percent of the 
A student from Lyons Hallt'otes in yesterday's runoffelection for class officers. (photo by Rachel 
vott· while Slowey garnered 4'i.4 
Blount)
pc:rct·nt. 
Resumes duties 

President continues improvement 
WASHINGTON (AP)  -Despite:  Rugc: dc:darc:d late in the: day that  tlng comfortably," Ruge said.  
some  pain  and  fatigue:,  a  high­ "The: president continues to  make  Earlier,  Vice  President  George  
spirited President Rt·agan got out of  excellent  progress  toward  full  Bush said after a vist that "The presi­ 
hc:d and set to work in his hospital  recovery'; from  the  bullet wound  dent is doing so  well  ...  it's really  
suite yesterday, signing an c:xc:cutlvc:  which  punctured  his  left  lung  in  amazing."  
order, conferring with staff  mem­ Monday's assassination attempt.  john  W. Hin_cklc:y Jr.,  charged  
bers and planning a major trip in just  "He: has experienced some pain,  with trying  to  kill  Reagan,  under­ 
three weeks.  which is normal for .., an injury and  went three hours of psychiatric tc:s·  
White  House  physician • Danid  surgery of this type. He: is now res­ ting to determine if he: is competent  

Students study national budget 
net" for the poor. It makes them a part of the legal system. If denied legal aid, the poor may fed Isolated from the legal system. Riots could develop this summer as a result of the reduction of Legal Aid and other social programs." Congress-man 
Harold  Washington  (D-Ill.)  
addressed  the:  issue:  of  Reagan's  
proposed budget plan.  


In response: to the proposed 
budget cuts, Washington called the 
plan "a plan for economic disaster." 
"Our nation's economic security requires a budget which promotes employment and economic growth, which safeguards the basic human survival programs for the needy, and which avoids waste for the tax­payer's money on mistaken military projects. 
"The budget presented to Congress by President Reagan fur­thers none of these objectives. Mr. Reagan attempts a crud hoax when he: claims that his plan will 'stop runaway inflation and revitalize our economy.' In truth, his is a program for economic disaster. His plan would spread malnutrition through the land, rc:!lucc our nation's productivity, and destroy the most effective programs for stimulating private creation of jobs while it squanders billions of dollars on spe­cial favors and tax breaks for private industry." 
Washington particularly opposes the proposed cuts in student aid. 
"The: Reagan Administration plan to cut college aid for moderate income: students will, if adopted, block the path to educational ad­vancement for thousands of our young people:. 
"It would also impose new finan­cial dislocations on institutions of higher education already suffering because of declining enrollments. It will hurt American industry hy reducing the pool of wcll-c:ducatc:d workers in an economy which ha~ increasing need for skilled employees. 
"It is an unfairly targeted program. 
It will cause the most harm to 
precisely those: families which arc: 
struggling hardest to obtain a good 
education for their children." 
Washington's legislative: assistant, Steve: Askin, noted that many or­ganizations arc attempting to fight the cutbacks. "Seven thousand mineworkc:rs demonstrated here for one day to protest the cut in aid for Black Lung Disease, and they seem to have: won a victory. 

"The cutbacks proposed arc a broad attack on the: neediest in our country. The: key to success in opposing these: cutbacks is linking up in an organized way," Askin said. 
Gary Caruso, ND'73-, special assis­

tant to Congressman Austin Murphy 
( D-Pa. ), offered insight into the 
See ClJTS, page 4 
to stand trial. He is being held at the: 
Quantico, Va, Marine: base, south of 
Washington. 
Reagan was moved into a private: room in a surgical ward and a "full­time office" was set up nearby for staff mc:mhc:rs, at:cordlng to presidential counselor Edwin Meese 
III. Meese said the prc:sidmt may he sent home from the: George: Wash­ington llnivc:rsity Jl T ospital early next week. 
White House chiefofstatf'Jamt•s A. Baker III and his deputy, Michael K. Deaver, who with Meese make: up the triumvirate that directs the White: House and administration operations, spent about I0 minutes 
with the president shortly after .., 
a.m. At that time, the prt·sidc:nt signed an executive: order granting lower import tariffs for pruducts from developing nations. 
At the: White House, Bush fillt'd in 
at the president's only previously shcdulcd appointment for the day, presiding at a National Sc:t·urity Council meeting h{· would have at-
See REAGAN, page: 4 

Reconstruction progresses on schedule 
By TOM SHAUGHNESSY 
News Staff 

The: construction on St. Edward's llall will he finished hy Aug. I, the scheduled completion date, according to Fr. Michael llc:ppen, the director ofstudent residences. 
The new facility, which will house approximately 1HO students, will cost in excess of S 1 million. Renovations include the addition ofabout H7 hc:ds and a larger area for studying and socializing. The compktc:d St. Edward's will be "safer and more: commdious," Heppc:n said. 
Regarding the possibility ofa housing lottery, Father Jleppc:n stated 
that no decision can be made until after April I0, the deadline for 
those: students who will he living off-campus next year to Inform the: 
Office ofStudent Residences of their decision. 
"I would like to see about SO more students move off-campus for 
next year," Fr. Hc:ppen said. 




News Brie/§
==============*=================================~ 
by The Observer and The AIIociated Prm 
A new drug fested in Europe helps protect heart attack victims from suffering a second, fatal seizure, researchers say, and the drug's maker seeks approval to market it in the United States. The drug, called timolol, reduced the death rate among heart attack vic­tims by 39 percent in a 33-month experiment. "We are very enthusias­tic about these results," Dr. Terje R. Pedersen said in an interview. We think they represent a breakthrough in the management of these pa_tients." He predicted timolol or a similar drug may someday be taken routinely by as many as 80 percent of the people who have survived heart attacks. Produced by Merck Sharp & Hohme, the drug has been used in Europe for treatment of angina chest pain and high blood pressure. But it has not been cleared by the Food and Drug Administration for distribution in the United States. -AP 
The Steady reCOVery White House press secretary James Brady is making from a bullet through the brain is "truly excep­tional" and indicates he may regain more mental functions than earlier hoped, say brain specialists. White House officials said yesterday that Brady was conscious, talking, moving both arms and both legs and generally continuing to improve. "Physicians continue to be cautious­ly optimistic as Mr. Brady's neurological condition continues to im­prove," yesterday's report said. However, he remains in critical condition at George Washington Univ<:rsity Hospital. Brady, 40, and his wife, Sarah, played catch with a ball of cotton Tuesday night,­"demonstrating his ability to move in spite of his weakened condi­tion," said a White House statement. James A. Baker II, White House chiefofstaff, said doctors believe Brady will survive and "that mental capacity will be there" despite damage caused by a .22-caliber bullet ripping through his brain. However, it is unknown how much and what kind of mental capacity will remain following massive injury to the right side ofBrady's brain and minor injury to the front lobe ofthe left side. During five hours of surgery soon after Monday's assassina­tion attempt on President Reagan, doctors reportedly removed large 
amounts ofbrain tissue from the right frontal lobe ofBrady's brain and a small amount from the left. -AP 
Msgr.JohnJ. Egan, director ofthe University of Notre Dame's Center for Pastoral and Social Ministry and special assistant to the president of the Universiy, has received the John XXlll Award for ministry from the Association ofChicago Priests (ACP). The ACP cita­tion noted that Egan "had provided not only a persistent vision ofthe best the Church has to offer in its social ministries but also has nurtured many to carry out effectively this work." Egan was ordained for the archdiocese ofChicago in 1943 and gained public attention for 
community organization and urban ministry when director of the archdiocesan Urban Affairs Office from 1958 to 1969 and pastor of Chicago's Presentation Parish Parish rom 1966 to 1970. He was chair­man of the ACP in 1969-1970. Egan fouhded the Catholic Committee on Urban Ministry in 1967 and brought its secretariat to the Uriiversiy when he came in 1970. At Notre Dame, Egan directs several programs of the University in service to the Catholic Church and is the presi­dent's liaison with all religious groups. .:-7'be Observer 
Seven men and two women,all heavily armed, 
kidnapped a Canadian woman from her home in the port of La Liber­tad, El Salvador where she had been teaching methods of fish produc­tion, a National Guard spokesman said yesterday. The spokesman, who asked anonymity for security reasons1 quoted witnesses as saying the unidentified assailants dragged Monica Huguette Gauphier from her home Tuesday evening, shoved her into a pick-up truck and drove off. He said army patrols hill been searching the area since then but had found nothing. He did not have information about her age and hometown, but said she was a Canadian citizen. None of the leftist or rightist terrorist groups active in El Salvador immediately claimed rcponsibility for the kidnapping. The spokesman said police have not yet been able to identify the abductors. -AP 
Algerian-backed desert nomadsfighting the 
:vl.oroccan army for the independence of Western Sahara said yester­day the Reagan administration's arms sales to Morocco are "flagrant and irresponsible." The United States approved the sale of 108 heavy tanks to Morocco carlin this year. "The decision ofthe new American administration to supply Morocco with new weapons for escalating criminal war against the. desert people is regarded as a dangerous and irresponsible decision." a Polisario statement said. The Polisario front has fought Morocco since 1976. when the North African nation took 0\1er the territory. then the colony ofSpanish Sahara. -AP 
John W. Hinckley Jr., his alleged murder attempt upon President Reagan reportedly spawned by infatuation with a tecneage film star. underwent psychiatric tests at a marine base in Quantico, Va., yesterday over the objections of his new attorney, a partner of famed criminal lawyer Edward Bennett Williams. Justice Department sources say investigators believe Hinckley was "infatuated" with teen-age movie actress Jodie Foster and wanted to do somethir.g that would attract her attention. The sources said llincklq wrote an unmailed letter to Miss Foster in which he describt·d his plans to shoot the president and said ''I'm going to do it for you." The letter was found by authorities, apparently at the downtown Washington hotel where Hinckley stayed the night before the attempt on Reagan's life. Miss Foster had portrayed a teen-age prostitute in the film "Taxi Driver," in which a New York cab driver who is fascinated by guns plans to assassinate a Senate candidate. -AP 
Sunny' windy and warmer today. Highs in the mid to upper 70s. Increasing clouds tonight and a slight chance of thundershowers late tonight. Lows in the upper 40s to low 50s. Thun­derstorms likely tomorrow. Continued warm. Highs in the mid to up­per 70s. -AP 
-----------------, 
Thursday, April2, 1981 -page 2 

Fourth EstateJournalism 
An elite group ofjournalists in Washington is fighting the good fight against governmental excesses, con­servative reforms, and basic bureaucratic snafus. These writers, progressives to the core, were tempered only slightly by the recent attack on President Reagan. Their campaign to inform the public of the administration's 
ineptitude is, no doubt, in full swing once again. 
The term "adversarial press," which first came into prominence,during the infamous Watergate scandal, is often applied to any young reporter with a chip on his/her shoulder. Investigative journalism, on the other hand, implies that an investigation has been conducted and an atrocity exposed. The investigative reporter, 
though he must go into the investigation with the intent 
to reveal some illegality, is more a crusader than an ad­
versary. 
Some of this country's more noteworthy inves­
tigative reporters gathered in Washington last weekend 
under the direction ofRalph Nader to present a seminar 
to collegiate journalists. The most successful of these 
investigators, LF. Stone, has returned from retirement 
and his pursuit of Greek historical studies because of that "ifwe leave greed alone, the whole generation will Reagan's election. Apparently, the opportunity to up-flourish." He urges readers not to confuse this system hold the rights of the poor in the face of Reagan's with Adam Smith's laissez faire ·economics. He con-
economic reforms is the 
new driving force in Stone's 
life. 
Stone, who was on the 
Washington blacklist of the 
50s, developed his own 
publication called, aptly 
enough, /.F. Stone's Weekly. 
He and his wife ran the 
entire business themselves 
and the paper flourished, 
largely due to Stone's uncan­
ny ability to sift through 
government doubletalk and 
filter out the truth. He made 
a name for himself with this 
paper, and his reputation 
was still growing when he 
stopped the presses a few 
years ago. 
In person, Stone is a small, 
Yoda-like man, with thick wire-framed specs and an un­
assuming air. Like Beethoven, he has managed to turn 
the impediment of impending deafness into an asset. 
Because he cannot hear all that well, Stone reads vora­
ciously. He carefully scrutinizes congressional records, 
minutes of hearings and meetings, and entire press 
releases. He has read three or four major newspapers 
before the rest of the world has wiped the sleep from 
their eyes. 
This enthusiasm for the written word, when 
combined with Stone's keen eye for spotting fishy 
details, makes for interesting reading every time .Stone 
pens an article. He is always able to substantiate what he 
writes, for his sources arc all on the record -in black 
and white. 
Stone insists that anyone could do what he does ­
that all the information he uncovers is there for anyone 
to see. But no one else usually sees it. So, we might ask, 
to what does "Izzie" Stone owe his success? 
For starters, Stone likes neither the term 
F--..-::-:::-:.:-:-::::::==-~·_.:..:::=-:·:-:·=--=:\ 
r_IheDbser:vel".~ 



HofstraLawSchool 
l Design Editor.......... .. Dcirdr~ Murphy 
SUMMER SESSION 1981
Design Assistants.. .................... Patty Fox 
Summer Session 1 
May26 to July 6 

Summer Session2 
The Observer (USPS 598 920) Is 
"" 
published Monday through Friday 
July7
except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer Is published 

to Aug. 17 
by the students of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $20 per year ($10 per semester) by writing The 

clearly, he is neither of those. He holds what he con­siders a place ofhonor in our"Fourth Estate." "My job is not to libel, to assault, nor to dig up dirt," he said. "I try to provide understanding to fellow citizens." 
By digging into what he admits is "dry, arid material," he is able to successfully "protect the weak against the strong." And it is for this last reason that he has returned from retirement to write a weekly column, for the most part warning that Reagan's capricious tax cuts may prove to be fatal for our aleady flailing economy. 
The basic philosophy of the United States is, he said, 
demns politicians for "handing the whole town (Washington) over to the lobbyists," but does not con­demn the citizens for listen­ing to these lobbyists. This is a major reason for his success: he takes for granted his ability to see what is staring him in the face -no matter how abstrusely ­but never insults those who cannot see the same thing. 
It is Stone's insistence that his job is so easy that forces one to query as to why he has no likely successor. If it is all so easy. why doesn't anyone else do it? He recalls a time when the U.S. govern­ment was testing atomic 

power out West. The official release stated that the repercussions of the explosion would not be felt more than 200 miles away. Stone happened to read an item in a paper that said the aftershocks had been felt in Toronto and in Rome. When pressed with this informa­tion later, the government was forced to retract its ear­lier statement. Stone was the only journalist to catch this discrepancy. 
The most likely reason that there is no one fit to tie Stone's shoelaces is that while the press may range from adversarial to apathetic, very few journalists view their jobs as public services. They arc either after a grand killing or just the bare minimum. Most want only to receive recognition, and care not whom they hurt nor whom they overlook. 
One complaint Stone registered was that today's reporters are too close to their stories -that the repor­ters party with politicians and then write about them. Stone rightly concludes that this is not a healthy en­vironment for revealing the truth. 


Kathy Crussdt Layout Staff ................. ...... Randy Rentner Typesetter ................... ........... Bru<:e Oakley 
News Editor...  .......... Tim Ver<:ellotti  
Copy Editurs  ................ Pam Degnan  
Tom Melshcimer  

Features Layout.......................... Tim Neely Sports Copy Editor ............. Dave Dziedzic Typist...... ............ Fran ·(:ackley Systems Control........... ........... Ron Joe ND Dc~v Editor........................ Megan Boyle SMC Day Editor...... ... Mary Kay Hogan Ad Design ............................... Woody & Co. Photographer ......... Ra<:hel Blount Guest Appearances ......Tom Krueger and his boys No Doz. Max and Havana 
Conflict of Laws  3  
Criminal Procedure  4  
Debtor-Creditor  3  
Evidence  4  
Family Law  3  
Individual Income Tax  4  
Law and Medicine  3  
Real Estate Transactions  4  
Secured Transactions  3  
Unfair Trade Practices  3  

Business Organizations 4 Commercial Paper 3 Commercial Transactions Survey 4 Federal Courts 3 International Law 2 Legal Issues in Public Education 3 Products Liability 3 Remedies 3 
For Further Information Write or Call (516) 560-3636 Dame, Indiana 46Q56. Second class postage paid. Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 
The Observ~r is a member of the 
Observer, P.O. Box Q, Notre 
School





14iJHofstra
Associated Press. All reproduction 
ofLa.w 
1
rights are reserved. 

1 ~'"ER" r'< HOFSTRA UNIVERSITY. Hempstead. NY 11550 Holslra Un•vers1ty 15 an equal qducat•ona\ opportumly •nst•lu1•tm 
• 

~----~--------------------------~~--------­
The Observer Thursday, April 2, 1981 -page 3 

Budget cuts survive tactics 
WASHINGTON (AP)-President 
• Reagan's budget-cutting allies in the Senate fought off renewed chal­lenges with t·ase yesterday, moving slowly toward a final vote on legisla­tion to force spending reductions of $87 billion over three years. Senate Majority Leader Howard~ Baker had hoped for final passage late yesterday, but said the deadline might slip until today. Aides said Democrats were threatening to force time­consuming roll call votes on a dozen or more attempts to restore some of the cuts proposed for their favorite 
programs. 
But most efforts appeared doomed to failure as Baker, R/Tenn., and Budget Committee Chairman Pete Domenici, R/N.M., demonstrated time and time again they had tht· votes to pass the presi­dt·nt's proposals virtually intact. 
The latest <:hallenges to fail in­cluded One by Sen. Lowell Weicker, a Republican from Connecticut who has bucked the administration at times over spending. He sought 
S 143 mlHion more in 1982 to con­
tinue the Small Business Administra­tion non-disaster loan program. 
That was money Reagan originally 
proposed spending. But when the 
Budget Committee voted last month 
to cut it, there was no protest from 
the White House. The vote on the 
Senate floor to endorse the cut was 
68/28. 
A proposal by Sen. Gary Hart, D/Colo., and several other Democrats to rearrange the cuts in energy programs, reducing the nuclear budget the president wants increased and restoring some of the administration's proposed reduc­tions In solar, conservation ar.d fossil fuel programs. 
The proposal would have cut the budget by S 13 million more than Reagan wanted, but would have afl­ocated the money far differently and would have maintained funding for the Solar and Conservation Energy Bank the administration wants to 

eliminate. The vote to stick with the administration proposal was 65/32. 
A proposal by Sen. Edward M. Kennedy, D/Mass., to restore $250 million of the proposed cuts for 1982 and 1983 for preventive and community health. It was turned 

back on a 62/36 vote. 
Even before their latest successes, Reagan's supporters had beaten back a dozen amendments that would have restored cuts for a variety ofsocial programs. 
The only change the Senate has approved in a week ofdebate was In­itiated by Republicans at Domenici's request -to increase spending for child nutrition programs at the ex­pense offoreign aid. 
The legislation, which would re­quire the other committees of Congress to make the actual cuts in programs they oversee, is the first step in Congress' deliberations on the administration's program of fis­cal restraint. 
Both the House and Senate budget committees are expected to begin work next week on overall spending targets. The debate is expected to provide the first indication of how Reagan's call for an increased defense budget and multi-year tax cuts will fare in Congress. 

Blakey posits 'two gunmen' theory 
By DAVID RICKABAUGH 
Senior StaffReporter 
Robert Blakey, former chiefcoun­cil to the House Assassination Com­mittee, reconstructed the assa.~slnation of President Kennedy to "show that the Warren Commis­sion was wrong and and that two 'gunmen fired a total of four shots in 
lkalcy Plaza In Dallas." 
Blakey lectured to a small 
audience yesterday afternoon. as 
part of the week-long Notre Dame 
Pre-Law Society workshop. 
The Warren investigation con­
cluded that only Lee Harvey Oswald 
fired "two, possibly three" shots on 
November 23, 1963. 
The lloust~ of Representatives 
reopened the Investigations on the 
killings of President Kennedy and 
Martin Luther King in 1977 to study 
the possibilities of assassination 
plots rather than the lone gunman 
theories. 
Antique 
vase vanishes 
By CECE BALILES 
News Staff 
A va.~e belonging to the Sisters of the lioly Cross was removed from the entram:e foyer of l.emans Hall, SMC, last week. The vase ha.o; been in the sisters' possession for more than '50 years, Kathleen M. Rice, Dean of Student Affairs, announced in a general letter to the student popula­tion. 
At present, the administration has 
make no accusations and is hopeful 
that the vase: will be returned with 
no futher action. 
Originally, it was assumed that the 
va.o;e had veen borrowed for a 
phowgraph or painting; however, 
when it faikd to reappear more 
serious considerations were taken, 
Ann Reed, Director of Public Rela­
tions noted. 
Sister Cecile Marie, the campus hostess, whose office is located in the foyer, refused to comment on thethdt. 
The vao;e is part of the valuable 
collection of antiques displayed in 
Satpleton Longe in LeMans Hall. 
Blakey explained, "The time was right to reopen the Kennedy case, when we finally learned about the CIA alliance with the Mafia to kill Cuban President Fidel Cast tro. 

"Castro warned the world in Sep­tember 1963, 'those who plot assas­sinations should look out for their own.' This later raised the question of whether Castro hired Lee Harvey Oswald to shoot Kennedy?" 
Blakey, a Notre Dame professor of Law, said that Oswald supported the position ofCastro's Cuba. 
"We started to interview those who witnessed the shooting, but most of the people we talked to merely restated what they had read in the papers or heard on the televi­sion reports. We realized that 17­year-old testimony wouldn't shed new light on the case. However, time was on our side, science and technology had improved over the years enabling us to hand the inves­tigation in a precise scientific fas­
hion," said Blakey. 
"The biggest new piece of 
evidence was the eight second tape of the shooting Dallas police officer 

H.B. McClain relayed to the dis­patcher. The actual gunshots were overlooked originally because the naked ear could distinguish them from background noise. Also, no one knew that McClain's loose break cable on the front of his Harley Davidson motorcycle had accident­ly switched on his transmitter," Blakey explained. 
·rhrough sophisticated accousti­cal equipment the committee eliminated the background noise of the motorcycle and developed a "fingerprint ofsound." 
According to Blakey, the tape combined with the news film and an August 1978 reconstruction of the assassination substantiatt•d the theory that two gunmen fired a total offour shots. 
Blakey commented that "the evidence for the theory was there since the investigation started in 1963. Governor Connally, who was riding in the front scat of the Ken­nedy car, stated In his testimony that he heard one shot miss him, but turned to look in the direction it came from, only to feel the second bullet go through his back. He then heard two more shots." 
The shots came from two loca· 
tions -the building where Oswald 
was perched and a grassy knoll along 
the motorcade route. 
The first shot fired from the build­
ing hit nothing, the second shot also 
from the building, passed through 
Kennedy's neck into Connally's 
back. The third shot, which was fired 
See THEORY, page 4 

A N o· T R E D A M E S A I N T II A R Y ' S r H E A T R E PRES E N T A T I 0 N WASHINGTON HALL, APRIL 3, 4, ll, tO & fl, AT s.-oo PM ADMISSION IS S3; NO, SMC STUDENTS, FACULTY & STAFF PA..Y $2.50. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION PHONE284-4176 
I. Women's Night in Law 
Thurs. April 2 


~a l'it1)aro~ 
Styling for men and fH~~~~A FUS~ women who like to 
277-0734 

~========================~ 
• 

----------------------· 
• 
The Observer 


LAS VEGAS ( AP) -A fire broke out in a room on the fifth floor of Caesar's Palace hotel on Las Vegas' Strip yesterday, and 16 people were injured before it was l'Xtinguished. 
It was the third hotel fire in the gam­
bling resort city in less than five 
months. 

Authorities said fire and smoke 
forced evacuation of the hotel's 
entire I 2-story central tower. 

"We have 10 civilian injuries ­
most of these are minor-and six 
tlrefighters arc injured. One is quite 
serious," said Capt. Ralph Dinsman of the Clark C()unty Fire Depart­ment. 
Capt. Donald Warren reportedly suffered second-degree burns while fighting the blaze at the 1,736-room hotel. He was taken to Southern Nevada Memorial Ho.spital burn unit, where he was listed in satisfac­tory condition. 
The blaze erupted yesterday at 10:0<; a.m. in Room <;84, a five-room suite at the rear section of the twelve-floor original' hotel, which is attached to a 22-story Fantasy Tower addition opened 18 months 
~ DWomen~
W Grads Return~ 
for 4th Annual Alumnae Weekend 
aturday 1:00pmApril 4th
• 

Library Auditorium Refreshments Followin 
ATTENTION: Freshmen 
Sign-up for 

198.2 Sophomore Literary 
Chairman S Executiue Committee 
Apply at Student Union 2nd floor LaFortune 
DEADLINE: April .2 
Open to students of all. majors 
ago. It was not known if that suite was occupied at the time of the fire. 
Dinsman said the portion of the hotel where the fire broke out did not have sprinklers but said Caesers Palace was in the process of install­ing the area with sprinklers. Dinsman said fire alarms and smoke detectors in the area worked. 
Breaking glass from windows showered down to the ground, he said. 
In Los Angeles, Caesars World ex­
ecutive vice president J. T. Lannie 
had said earlier that only one 
firefighter was injured and called the 
fire "no big thing, except that it hap­
pened in Las Vegas." 
continuedfrompage 1 
future of federally funded student­aid programs. 
"The Senate will want to cut the 
budget more than the House will," 
he said. "Consequently, programs 
like BEOG and SEOG will either be 
drastically cut or totally eliminated 
under Reagan's proposal. Govern­ment subsidized interest rates, which are below the national level, will be totally eliminated. "The requirements for obtaining a student loan will place a ceiling upon the amount ofincome a family can use to qualify. Therefore, there­quirements will be based on the need of the student. Consequently, private institutions like Notre Dame, 
with traditionally higher tuition costs, will have more students qualify for loans than' the state in­
stitutions. 
"The Federal budget is operating on a continuing resolution at 1980 levels. This resolution will expire June 5. If the Senate and the House cannot agree on a budget by June 5, they can either continue at 1980 
• • .Reagan 
continuedfrom page 1 
tended anyway. Reagan was original­ly scheduled to speak to the Illinois legislature in Springfield. 
Deputy White House press secretary Larry Speakes said plans were going ahead for a Reagan meeting scheduled for April 27 and 28 in San Diego, Calif., with Mexican President Jose Lopez-Portillo. 

Thursday, April2, 1981 -page 4 
CEL sponsors summer program 
By BETH ZANGMEISTER 
News Staff 
Thirteen Alumni Clubs across the country are currently offering scholarships to students willing to spend eight weeks this summer working among the needy in their cities. The Center for Experiential Learning (CEL) is coordinating and sekcting participants for the Sum­mer Service Projects program. 
Fr. Don McNeill and Sr. Carolyn 
Burgholzer of the CEL claim that 
many students will admit that 
American cities are full of people 
who are physically or mentally 
troubled, but few do more than 
complain about the surrounding so­
cial injustices. Because of personal 
financial difficulties, many students 
are reluctant to spend a few summer 
months responding to those in need 
ofattention and help. 
Sr. Carolyn, head of the program 
hopes that the scholarships ac­
companying the service will make it 
economically feasible for those wis­
hing to confront the social problems 
in American cities to do so. Students 
selected by the CEL in cooperation 
with participating Alumni Clubs will 
receive as much as SI,000 toward 
the following year's tuition in return 
for spending two months in the 
cities of their sponsoring Alumni 
Clubs. Students live and serve 
alongside experienced parish or lay 
workers who are involved in the 
area on a long term basis. 
I,ast year, at the program's begin­
ning, five students served in projects 
molded to fit their own interests as 
well as the needs of the community. 
Their projects included working in 
food pantries, youth centers, and 
welfare programs. According to Sr. 
Can>lyn, the experience consisted 
of more than handing out food or 
advice to the poor. "The different 
projects provided valuable learning 
• • • Cuts 
continuedfrom page 3 

from the grassy knoll, missed, -and the fourth shot, which struck the president in the brain, came from the Oswald gun. 
It was the third shot fired from the side ofthe mqtorcacie route that was omitted in the Warren report. 
"Witnesses at the scene reported the third shot to the police im­mediately following the incident. A Korean War veteran, who was stand­ing in front of the second gunman's line of fire claimed he heard a shot pass through the air. Another wit­ness, claimed to see the second gun­men and reported him to a Dallas police officer. 
The officer came in contact with a 
man who claimed to be a Secret 
Service agent, so he let him pass by. 
Later it was discovered that none of 
the agents on duty was assigned to 
that area. Finally, a man who 
experiences in compassion, in social concern, in service to the poor, and in realizing the complexity ofjustice issues and the need for more study," 
she explained. 

Fr. McNeill, head of CEL, noted that a majority of the students in­volved in the Summer Service Project will not go into social work full time. However, he ·aaded that the experience does cause them to obtain a clear view of the situation and to reflect critically upon it. 
Phil Gutierrez participated in the program last summer. As well as working part time at a bank in Los Angeles, he served meals to the Mexican-American poor only a few blocks away. He wrote of the in­fluence that the project had on him in his follow-up report to the sponsoring Alumni Club. "While I was at the bank, I could not forget about the people I saw earlier in the day. While I helped men dressed in suits, I realized that at the same time others were hungry. Looking further into the future, I cannot imagine ever forgetting about the people I saw this past summer," SJutierrez wrote. 
Alumni Clubs have already awarded scholarships for work in Chicago, Houston, Kentucky, St. Louis, and Washington D.C. There are still openings for Summer Service Projects in Boston, Cincin­nati, Cleveland, Indianapolis, Los An­geles, New Orleans, Pittsburgh, and Hartford. Any freshman, sophomore, or junior interested in spending the summer working among the needy while defraying their college ex­penses can obtain an application from the Center for Experiential Learning, loca.ted in room 1110 of the Memorial Library. The two-page form should be returned by April 14 so that the applicant can be notified ofthe results before Easter break. 
levels throughout the fiscal year, or they will agree upon a budget, or Federal programs will expirtJ..,_ on June 5. If they do expire, it will depend on the mood of the American public who is blamed and upon what levels the budget will finally exist. 
"Anyone who has received a stu­dent loan before January 1, 1981 will continue to be eligible for loans at a 7 percent interest rate. Those students who have never had a loan · prior to January '81 and secure a loan will have to pay a 9 percent in­terest rate. 
"If the budget is not passed by June 5, no one will be able to obtain a student loan. 
"Personally, I can say from first­hand experience (sitting in on labor hearings and markup sessions) that House Democrats have always tried to place high emphasis on educa­tion, .md have always supported stu­dent loans with no ceiling on income and the minimum possible interest rate!>. 
"Reagan will be just as unpopular 
as Carter in 1984. The people do not 
realize how badly they're going to 
hurt. In two years, they will." 

.Theory 
watcht;d the motorcade approach from a nearby overpass told inves­tigators he heard four shots and saw the smoke from the gun in the grassy bank." commented the N.D. profes­sor. 
"They (the administration of President Johnson) wanted to lay the nation's fears to rest, that's why they were glad to accept the findings of the \X'arren report." 
"The major problem is that after an assassination attempt takes place, government officials are afraid to say 'I don't know' when they are ap­proached by the news media for details concerning the incident. This is how the facts get distorted," said Blakey. "For example, on Monday night, Jim 
Brady was killed, and then he wasn't. 
Reagan wasn't shot and then all of a 
sudden, he was. A few no comments 
would have eased the situation." 

-------'----------------------------------------­

·-------­

The Observer Thursday, April 2, 1981 -page 5 
Haig seeks Mid-East peace tneasures 
W ASIIINGTON ( AP) -Scuctary of Statt• Alexander M. llaig Jr., who dt.·parts Friday for the Middle East, hopt·s to nail down the framework of an agrcccnt on stationing American forces as part of a peace-keeping force in tht· Sinai Desert, informed otftcials said yesterday. 
llaig wants to underline for Saudi Arabia the general U.S. commitment to ddt'rlll the oil-rich Persian Gulf against Soviet-inspired aggression, said the otftl'ials. who asked not to ht· idt·ntiflcd by name. 
ll:rig will visit Egypt, Israel, Jordan and Saudi Arabia during the dght­day trip in addition to scheduled stop~ in Madrid anti London. Otft­dals said yt·stt-rtlay otht•r stops also arc hdng consitlcrctl. 
"Wt' arc still considering how best to convey reports on the secretary's trip to otht·r Middle East capi­t:rls."said State Dt·partmcnt spokes­man William Dyess. It was undnstood llaig may send rcprcsentaivcs to several other countries, including Iraq and Syria, to hridthem on rt·sults of his trip. 
A major purpose ofthe trip will he for llaig to make clt-ar the U.S. com­mitment to the security of the rt·gion against Soviet aggression. Haig said recently that the ad· ministration wants to develop a stratq~ic "consensus" stretching from Egypt to Pakistan. 
Although it was planned a month ago, tht· trip has taken on added im­portancc hccausc of thc assassina­tion attempt against Prcsidcnt Reagan. Officials say it will demonstrate to friends anti foes alike thatthc U.S. government is function­ing normally. 
Tht· trip also will he important personally to llaig, whose perfor­mance in tht· Reagan administration has hccn subject to a barrage of criticism in the past two weeks. 
llaig has said previously that a U.S. 
military presence in the Sinai is un­
der consideration. But Israeli otft­
dals anti others believe the decision, 
for all practical purposes, has al­
rt·ady het·n made to propose station· 
ing U.S. uniformed fort·cs as a buffer 
============================= had fired the deputy commander of the Second Army, Gen. Athit Kam­langck, a close supporter of Prem who was reported tobe in charge of the troops at Sarahuri. But there was no independent confirmation the troops were there, or that Prcm had 
Strikers close mines; 
reject contract 
CIIARI.ESTON, W. Va. (AP) ­Roving l'aravans of pickets closed non-union coal mines in West Vir­ginia and ca~tcrn Kentucky yester­day. a day after United Mine Workers rank and filers soundly rejected a three-year contract endorsed by their president. 
Striking miners were "flipping hack and forth" between Kentucky and Wcst Virginia, making short,' surprise stops to set up picket lines, said ·Kentucky state Trooper Chuck Woodard. 
•·we have pickets but no prohlcms," said West Virginia state police Cpl. J.G. Watson. "These mlnt."rs arc picketing everything." 
The only violence reported after the vote wao; in eastern Kentucky, where a mine foreman's truck was riddkd by bullets as it crossed a pkkct line Tuesday night, according to Woodard. 
No violence wa.o; reported yester­day, the sixth day of tht· nationwide coal strike. 
UMW district 30 President Robert Carter acknowledged reports of picketing but said the union doesn't sanction pickets at non-union opera­tions. UMW mines account for about half the nation's coal production, with the remainder coming from 
non-union mines. "There are two things that killed the contract," said Cecil Roberts, 

Pat Can-o/1 gave an outstanding performance as author Gertrude Stein to a filled 0'/.uughlin Auditorium Wednesday night tiS part ofSMC's Women's Opportunity Week. 
hetwcen Israeli and Egyptian troops. 
Egyptian President Anwar Sadat, however, is said to be dubious about having U.S. military personnel on Egyptian territory, and one of H~ig's major tasks on the trip wil( be to convince him. 
lsracl favors a U.S. peace-keeping prt•scncc. 
The United States has maintained a civilin force of about 200 in the Sinai Desert since 197S. 
Also high on the agenda for Haig's 

trip will he an effort to strcnghen the 
st.·curity rclatonship hctwcen the 
United States and Saudi Arabia. 
Otftcials said that may involve no­thing more than underlining pre­vious assurances that the United Statt·s will come to Saudi Arahia's defense against outside aggression and assuring them the United States itself would not try to occupy Saudi oil fields in the event ofa crisis. 
In wake of recent coup 
Lofalist Thais . fight for deposed leader 
BANGKOK, Thailand (AP) -were moving on the capital from the Forces loyal to ousted Prime Minis· north and south. tcr Prcm Tinsulanonda were Military sources said the troops at reported driving on Bangkok from Saraburi drove there from Prcm's three directions yesterday in an at-base at Korat, headquarters of tempt to retake power. But the Thailand's Second Army, 150 miles military commander who toppled northeast of the capital to which Prem in a bloodless coup said he had Prcm and the entire royal family of "20 times" more troops than Prem King Bhumipol Adulyadej t1ed after and ordered them to "suppress the revolt early yesterday. drastically any threat ofdisorder." The queen of Thailand con-
Despite the tense faccoff, Bangkok\ dcmned the coup leaders n a broad­was quiet, with tratftc normal and cast over Korat Radio yesterday most businesses open. There were evening. no reports of violence or arrests by Prem, in an announcement over 
soldiers wh supported the coup Korat Radio, told the new regime in leader, Gen. Sant Chitpatima, Bangkok ~o lay down its weapons. andwho were guarding all govern-But Gen. Sant said, "I have 20 times mcnt buildings with machine guns more troops than they ( Prcm's and armored cars. forces) do." Sant and other members 
Witnesses said at least I 0 truck-of his Revolutionary Committee loads of troops loyal to Prcm went on to inspect the soldiers in rt·achcd Saraburi, SS miles northeast the capital. of Bangkok, and there were uncon-The Revolutionry Council an­flrml'd reports that soldiers also nounced over Radio Thailand that it 
vice president of the Charleston, W.Va./bao;ed UMW District 17, the union's largest. "The first article, the one permitting companies to sub­contract out to non-union operators, and the one removing the royalty on non-union coal." 
Miners feared that coal operators 


would lease their mines to non­
AStudent's Guide to North America's 
Adventures and Delights
union companies to avoid hiring 
UMW miners. And they said elimina­tion of the S 1.90-a-ton royalty would make it easier for operators to buy non-union coal. 
The Bituminous Coal Operators Association, the industry's bargain­ing arm, said the rejection cast doubt on the UMW's ability to negotiate a contract. Chief BCOA negotiator B.R. Brown also said in­dustry representatives had no plans to return to the bargaining table. 
UMW president Sam Church, who 

stumped hard for the contract, 
could not be reached for comment 
WILD AND QUIET RIVERS 

on the rejection. 
k ..... , .....;olllet \lii&M..._. 
~~----~~~~·-· ,._
,.,..,...,,_, ..
_,....,,._
Late Tuesday, with some 102,000 

of the nearly 160,000 voting mem· 
bcrs counted, the union's an­
nounced tally was 68,937 to 32,299 
against the contract. 
flad thc pact been approved, it 

would have provided 36 percent 
across-the-board increases in wages 
Ftom the Editorsof~Magazine aDd Rand M~Nally
and benefits over three years, boost· 
ing top scale daily pay to S I II, or 224 pages 81!2 x 11"
S29,000 a year. 
the loyalty of three-fourths of power." 
Thailand's army chiefs. 
The council called Prem -a general who seized power from Gen. Kriangsak Chomanan a year ago -"a person of low morals and weak as a woman," who "dared to extend his military term and even changed the law so he could stay in 
Citing increasing drug use, rapt· and murder, Sant said tht· council "will remain in power only for as long as necessary to solve the problems imd prevent them from becoming worse. When we arc l'er· tain that the situation is stable, we will hold a general elcnion." 
Road Notes win give you the inside word on: 
• 
where to watch a softball game on Ice, sip the nation's finest brews, or find over 150 unique celebrations 

• 
hot-air balloon races, cross­country bicycle tours, two dozen wind jamming excur­sions, soaring and more 

• 
200 not-to-miss attractions, from amusement parks to zoos 

• 
where to stay, eat, hang out, and party In 14 major cities. 


Road Notes combines hundreds of exciting trip possibilities with entertaining on-the-road reports and practi­cal advice for inexpensive travel. Compiled by m6re than 70 student writers and regional correspondents around the country. 
Road Notes is a one-of-a-kind "take along" guide that be­longs in the backpack of any adventurous traveler. 
Available now In your 
college bookstore. $695 
@RAND M~NALLY 

Editorials 
Thursday, April 2, 1981 -page 6 
P.O.BoxQ 
sity basketball players should be
True blues 
guaranteed a spot because the six seniors could not play until this
truly enjoyed 
year due to NCAA rules. However, there is no reason that football players should be treated
Dear Editor: 

Last Friday evening I went to differently than other students. the New Chautauqua to see Eddie Shaw and the Wolfgang. I Brian S maldino enjoyed the show along with the 
Cavanaugh Hall 

rest of the crowd. Thanks to those responsible for it. The real blues of Eddie Shaw had it head and shoulders over the cinematic im­
Vandals cause 

itation at the Engineering 
Auditorium. 
student dismay 

Keith C a ugh/in Howard Hall Dear Editor: 
On behalf of the architecture s~udents, I'd like to expres$ my 
dismay and resentment over an act of vandalism that occurred at
No preference 
the" arkie" building recently. Late last semester, a bronze bust of Cardinal Newman was 
to varsity 
athletes 
stolen from the lobby of the ar­chitecture building. The bust was found at the Grotto, slightly
Dear Editor: 
dented.

I would like to complain about As a Notre Dame student, I amthe format that Rob Simari, dismayed at the lack of concernBookstore Basketball commis­for University property of sym­sioner, has chosen in running bolic value. As an architectureentries for the tournament. Due to student I resent the inconsideratethe large popularity of the tourna­nature behind these thefts. Wement, there are more teams than respect the building we occupyspots in the tournament and and don't wish to see it become acutoffs are necessary. 
fortress on account of some in-However, the complaint is that considerate thieves orvarsity basketball and football pranksters. Presently theplayers were given preferential recovered bust and an ac­treatment. Instead of having to companying bust of Cardinalwait in line with everyone else, Manning are locked out of sight. Ithey were given a separate hope we'll be able to return themregistration and guaranteed spot to their places in the near future.

in the tournament. One can concede that the var-
Doonesbury 
GREAT Nat/S, KID! 
'1Wf?£A[)YRR. 7HIS? YGl'R {){.!MOM IS 
6ffl/N6 MAI?I?Ie/J 
A6AIN.~. NO, H~ A5KJ31) Me.-...... 
= 
/AJHCN DO 
YOU WANT 

7V GCT MARRI&Il? 
............. 
1. Loustau 
Garry Trudeau 
IA/Hifr.?.. ACTIJ4LI.Y, lfJ3 HAV&N'T 015­aJSSti[) IT YeT. HOI./) av, t£TMe ASK.. HEY, RICKI 
---~ ~ 
t&TM& CAlL YOfJ BACK, !JfiAR. 
~ 

USSC opens minds 
three presented evidence to sup­
WASHINGTON -On the adviser is killed? What are we morning of Jan. 4, John McAward port several conclusions: The offering in direct help to feed and was at home in Boston packing Duarte government, which is not educate the poor of El Salvador? his bags for a trip later in the day centrist, has little meaningful One measurement of the to El Salvador. His phone rang. it popular support and cannot con­group's success is that when was a friend calling froom El Sal­trol the military;. most of the legislation to prevent U.S. 
violence comes from the right;
vador: Two Americans and a Sal­military aid to the Salvadoran vadoran were gunned down in a U.S. military aid can only in­government was introduced in hotel diningroom the night crease the killing and terror; an 
late January, 35 House members before. American policy of getting tough 
backed it. The number is now 73. It says something about with Cuba and the Soviets is a 
That's a small number, except McAward, who is the internation­boon to Communist propagan­that some years.-ago when the dists.
al programs director of the Uni­House first voted on a similar bill tarian Universalist Service None of the three expected that on getting militarily involved with Committee, that when the call these findings would turn a corrupt and weak government, ended he went on with packing. Congress around. It would be it passed with almost no opposi­He rejected all thoughts of cancel­enough if some opposition could tion. ing the trip, even though these be raised against the Reagan-Haig That was Vietnam. 
were the fifth and sixth strategy that was then being If a few politicians know better Americans recently to have been sprung on both El Salvador and this time, it is due in part to the slain in El Salvador. The week the public consciousness. productive and crucial work of before, an American journalist Merely to begin the process of John McAward and the UUSC. 
disappeared. finding answers to the questions Creating a climate of understand­
As it turned out, no harm came they returned home with would­ing is an emphatically unsplashy to McAward. This particular trip be success: Why are we support­process that wins no headlines. -of 10 days -was one of a ing the weak Duarte and arming 
But it does open minds, and no dozen he has made to El Salvador the right? Why are we not humane policy in Central and other Central American consulting with governments like 
America can be formed without countries since 1977. Although Mexico to develop a foreign that. McAward has been a close wit­policy rather than dictating one? 
ness to the evolving violence in El What happens if a U.S. military The Washington Post Company Salvador, he and the U USC have been providing one extraordinari­ly useful service here at home: helping to educate Congress to the political nuances of Central America. 
Murday to select cabinet 
That was the reason for the Jan. 4 journey. The committee invited 40 members of Congress who I recently noticed S.B.P.-elect carried it through; and Frank "I can 
were known to have foreign Don Murday announcing that ap-r grow facial hair" Guilfoyle ob­policy interests in Central plications are now being taken for tained matching hall improvement America. McAward was making S.G. Cabinet positions -a sure funds from the University. the advance arrangements for the sign that change is in the air. It Much ofwhat S.G. does is impor­
three who accepted: Robert wasn't long ago that Don Ciancio tant in improving the quality oflife Edgar (D-Pa.), Barbara Mikulski and I went through the same here, but rarely gets attenton simp­(D-Md.), and Gerry Studds (D­process. In retrospect, choosing ly because the Cabinet persons are Mass.). that cabinet was one of the most mostly concerned about getting Each was familiar with the significant things that we did, for the job done. Don Schmid 
work of the U USC and its reputa­S.G. has been successful this year represented the student interest to tion for humanitarian service. · largely because of the efforsts of the University in academics, and Each knew that McAward could the Cabinet. I'd like to take this thereby challenged me for be trusted to arrange meetings space to recognize their contribu­supremacy in number of hours with as many knowledgeable tions. spent in meetings per week-. Central Americans as possible, The new S.G. Constitution creat· Therese Ann Brown ran, among from far left to far right. Any other ing the Student Senate wouldn't many other things, both the Spring way would be useless. The have been accomplished without and Fall Social Concern Film purpose in going was to eliminate newly elected Keenan President, Series. Mark Pasquerilla arranged preconceived notions, not get Paul Callahan. Many of the issues for the upcoming appearance of encrusted with more. that the Semite raised were the former U.N. Ambassador Andrew 
For ten days, the group listened result of the Cabinet's efforts. Ter­Young and is coordinating a relief 
and learned. Although El Sal­ry Parker proved Notre Dame ven­drive for the Somalian/Ethiopian vador was canceled from the ding machine prices were refu5ees. Pat Gunning created and itinerary -for safety reasons­exorbitant, with the result that chaired the Athletic Council the groups met with Salvadorans soda prices were lowered from which worked with the Interhall who came to Costa Rica. It went S.45 to 5.40. Elizabeth Boo wrote Office. Mike Dorociak arranged also to Nicaragua and Honduras. the Student Senate surveys. Rose shuttle schedules and the Take-A­One of the differences in this trip, May, Security Coordinator, docu­Profto lunch program. Tim Hamil­according to Edgar, was that it mented lighting deficiencies, as ton ran Freshman Orientaton and had little of the "grand tour treat­well as held meetings and had helped Jim Scallon with Transfer ment" traditionally given by the countless posters printed to raise Orientation. Sean Heffernan State Department to visiting big­awareness. plotted Off-campus strategy, while 
wigs. McAward said that, "All I Crucial in keeping the ·Cabinet Karen Corbett ran storage for Off­
asked of the delegation was that it motivated were the three Ex­Campus students. Liz O'Hara include some time talking to the ecutive Coordinaors, who, in addi­worked specifically on Publicity, victim class. Its side of the story tion to running their depatments, but mostly on everything. And 
was almost unknown 111 also pursued individual projects: Brian "Can I get you a date to the Congress." S.B.P.-elect Don "we need a stu­formal?" Glade, worked with the 
On returning to Washington, dent center" Murday worked on Alumni Office and promises to Edgar, Mikulski and Studds social space; Lou "sure I like to lift soon have jobs for everyone. began the slow educative work of weights, why?" Moran got a recy­Unfortunately, I cannot list snuffing out the myths, biases and cling program off the ground and everyone and each thing done, and 
ignorance about El Salvador-its all the work behind the scenes. I can only say thank you. I hope the
people, history, culture and same caliber o~ persons continues
politics -that prevailed in Paul Riehle, a senior in the to apply, and wish Don and Tara
Congress. From what was General Program, is the outgoing good luck in their appointments.
learned in Central America, the Student Body President . 
.w:.-~1<..~:...;.;.. ...:::~.... ;..:.:::.~:"'"'·......Ki~'~-~..:;:.·x·r~~-;.lt~~i:.•.2ti-:.~·~~~~~~~~~-·-------!!!.-._-"o!!..~-!___!.._~~_2.!,:!;;·_~_~!!!!!!!!!~~~!!!~~~ 
Editorial Board and Department Managers
=~7c-~~===--=~-~rhe"=·Obsen!er~-~=--~~~-· -~~~ 
Editor-in-Chief.........................................]ohn McGrath SMC Executive Editor..... . ........ Mary Agnes Carey
Br;x Q '-.'otrt· D..jm :, if.i 465 )(, Managing Editor ......................................Tom Jackman SMC News Editor ................................Cathy Domanico The Ob.<erz·t;·r ,s ~-n HHkJe••~t --:r nevd~'apcr publ1~hr:-d by the :,rudc-nh . ·he E:r.ecutive News Editor .............................. Lynne Daley Photo Editor............................................. , .....]ohn Macor UnP.-er·-;~r:, of ~ulf·~ l!amt.: .:'L-' -' ,<ld ::lalf:> :'·.!dry's Collq:;e. Ir Lbf"s nul nnessani·:· 
News Editor.............................................Tim Vcrcellotti refleu r:1e ;:>ol1ues ui t'Jt· dc,n;r. :r;:r10n ut eahrr msriWflon. The nrws IS rc-pL>rred Business Manager................. ... Rich Coppola
News Editor..................................................]ohn Higgins ;15 au.u•·a,ely anJ ilS ob)eU!-'d} as p,;!:l5ibk. i-:.dir"rials represent the opw1nn of J Controller....................................................... .)oc Mulflur 
Senior Copy Editor ........................ Mary Fran Callahan 
Advertising Manager.... . ..................... Mark Ellis 
majora:: ot _rhe E-:dH'Jna! Do:.ud Cornrnenrartc'->, u~nnion._, and lerters a.re the view'> 
Sports Editor ............................. ...........Michad Ortman Produt·tlon Manager ................... Ryan Vcr Bcrkmoes
of thetr aurhor'1. Cvlur,·IE sr~·-e IS a\:tilablc to ail members of rhe <.ommunlf'.' and 
Features Editor..........................................Rick Hermida Circulation Manager ........................Tom MacLennan
the free expreSSJfJr; <Jf ·.,-arving c-plfiions •Jfl •_a rnrw;, through J:>rrers, i5 encouraged 
..--··-·--····--... --.. -·-·...-·-------­
rntrcr~NS"Ai "ii+ . .,lJ?HidBZE!f' rmrr -wae==za n-.~·=nm , . ..,...,... n==.J~ 
Thursday, April2, 1981 -page 7 
Features 
DelbertMurphy 

The Legalization of~~ass Assassin,, 
I
t seems that everyone around Notre Dame is playing 
provide a fanciful, relatively Inexpensive, escape -a "Mass Assassin" -thegame with dart guns and "hits." vacation, if you will, without the rigours of baggage If you don't know what "Mass Assassin" is, ask the check and customs. nea~est idiot with a dart gun. He'll tell you as he peers "Assassin" appeals to those with a taste for the "hunt" l>ehmd bushes; continually on his guard, making sure he 
for the unexpected for the dangerous. ' won't fall victim to another gun-toting idiot. 
Therefore, why not make the thrill real? Notre Dame "Assassins"arc especially stupid. Some 
Let's play "Mass Assassin" with Smith and Wesson, have gone as far as disguising themselves as priests and 
long barrelled, .357 Magnums. The thrill would be real plumbers -clcvt:rly atmed with toy dart guns. then. One freshman in Cavanaugh bit the dust when he was 
Of course, O,!le couldn't tell who was on one's shot through a hole, carefully drilled through his screen 
"Assassin's Card." No one wants to he a prime suspect in window. A girl was shot in Lyons after returning from 
a first degree murder investigation. This modification the shower. The victim was unarmed and undressed. In has definite advantages. The need for an off-campus lot· lloly Cross, a person was killed while in the bathroom. tery would he dim t inated. Thert: would also he no The list is endless. lingering doubt as to who hit whom first. As I sec it, Notre Dame students engage in this ac­The lone survivor takes all. tivity due to an acute shortage of drugs, and an in· A few bullet-riddled buildings and a few blood· credible abundance of work. This is not good. Drugs stained carpets are small prices to pay t<>r realism. 
Old College: A Way ofLife 
PaulMcGinn 
us, for instance, is a varsity ten­
W
ht·n I tell people that I am The softball games, water prayer and Eucharistic 
from Old College, the nis player while: another sings 
skiing, golf, and movies were celebration. Our recitation first question they pose is not in the Glce Club and tcachcs relaxing activities to en­
of Lauds before classes "What is Old College?" hut life saving. Other Notre Dame courage our spirits while 
enable us to establish a simply "Where is Old College?" sponsorcd activities include such obediences as dis­
perspective on the new daySituatt•d along the shore of 
chess, The Obsen,er,Scbolastic, 
hwashing, pot scrubbing, ahead. Saint Mary's Lake, Old College C.l.LA., and F.LO.C. Conscious and shower sanitation lifted Vespers, held before our is located l>chind the: Ar­
of the fact that Notre Dame is 
our sense of cooperation dinner trek to the South 
ing our masses arc discus­Cross. As we continue thechitccturt· Building, ncar the only a part of our lives, we and sharing. Morning and Dining Hall, consists of sion homilies, a ft·rvcnt year, we seck to dt·velop avolunteer in such programs as
Log Chapd. 
evening prayer, together thanksgiving for the bless­comrnunity·wide Prayer of truly Christian spirit of Built in IH4 3 under the the Justice and Peace Center, with daily mass, strengthens ings of the day, and comfort living.
the Faithful and a dct·p ex­watchful eyes of Father Sorin, Logan Center, Boy Scouts of our spiritual community and from the day's anxieties. Through opt·nness to
perience of the prt•scnce ofOld College: served as the: American, and Confraternity of hcightcncd our awareness Weeknights arc usually Christ through tht• Sign of each otht·r, we live in hopesoriginal University of Notre: Christian Doctrine. 
ofGod's role in our lives. cappcd offhy Mass. As a time of joining a dynamic and
Peace and Holy Eucharist. 
Dame. A multipurpose build­While we consider the priest­When we returned to Old of reflection and praise, we diverse ministry, a ministry
In essence, our year at OldIng, Old Collcgt· contained dor­hood, we arc especially en­College for the start of the give thanks for the persons whil'h seeks to become an
College is a time ofpersonalmitory, classroom, and dining couraged to remain socially semester, we wert· con­with whom we have come in reflection and community integral part of today'sactive. Those of us who willspace. 
scious ofour need for group contact that day. Highlight-world.
sharing in the sp1rit of Holy
continue: in the formation tegral part of the Congregation 
Today, Old College is an in· 
process for ministry acknowl­of Holy Cross seminary edge: the genuine: need to ct~ program. We fourteen first-year fcctively deal with situations seminarians, who range in age which rcquirc grcat social ex­
Trivia Quiz XVIII: Eric Clapton
from I H to 26, art· full-time stu­posure. dents at citht·r Holy Cros~ Generally, our weekends arc Junior College or Notre Dame. Tim Neely
free, and dating is never a strain With the help ofour three ad­
hetwccn a duty to the program 
I 
know. You arc longing for another easy quiz. I'm certain husband and wife group that had several hits heh>rc separat­
and the: love ofa special girl. As our parietal policics arc the: that after last week's, you are probably anxious for one that ing. Can you name the hand?
visors, Father Jim Flanigan, 
Brother Paul Loos, and Ron same as those of the: University, is even mildly difficult instead of impossible. Check out the I 0. As of March 19H I, Eric has had only one nurnht·r oneRaah. we arc able to combine the Old College formation does answers; if you knew more than five, congratulations! I'd like single, eithcr as a solo or with a hand. What was it? 
our own intellectual and ex­
not hinder social contacts. to meet you. ( Y cs, folks, the last quiz was a real stinker, just as trat·urrkular pursuits with the daily accurcnces of a college 
This apprcciation of our in­I said it would he.) 
Here are the answers to la_;;t week's ahomination...oops, 1
Some months hack, I offered a quiz on Bruce Springsteen.
dependence stems from the Or­
seminary. The majors which we mean quiz:
No, I'm not going to offer another "Boss" trivia test. Instead, I 
der's basic understanding ofcan t·hoosc are as wide and I. The all-female group whil'h bat'kt·d up Barhra Strcisand 
will offer one on another ofthe all-time popular stars ofrock
personal freedom and of ourvaricd as the programs offered and then had a hit of their own in 197'i was Fann)'.
-Eric Clapton. It seems to he a good time for such a thing,
need to interact within totallyby tht·llnlvcrsity. 
2. The early British Invasion group with the fe;nalc drum­
as he has recently released a new album, Another Ticket,
Our concentrations include normally conditions. From this mer was the Honeycombs. (Their hit singk was "llavt· 1tht·
containing the hit single "I Can't Stand It." As even casual
psyt·hology. philosophy, biol­philosophy of indcpcndcnce, Right?".)
rock listeners probably know, Clapton has been around the 
ogy, history. English, govern­Holy Cross hopes to interest us 3. The highly-rt·gardcd West Coast group which had the
rock world for a long time, most recently as a solo act, but
ment, economics, and in the priesthood only after we Top 40 hit "Go Back" in 1970 hut was no more by 1972 was
also with nearly a dozen groups as cithcr a permanent or
computer englnct·ring. The or­make: a mature: cho~e to seck 
Crabby Appleton. .
transient member.
dt·r acknowledges the our vocation. 
4. The disgusting British hand which hall records banned
So without further ado, on to ten questions about 
numerous ministries open to Though our vocations arc before rclcasc and went over so poorly ht·rc in the States was. 
"Slowhand" (his nickname, given to him in his early days as a 
llll'mht·rs oflloly Cross and that many times considered 
the Sex Pistols. 

performer, and also the name of his most successful solo
mira<:ulaous rcvelations fromthrough prt·paration in the field 'i. The group formed by former Yardbird~ Keith lklf anddivine inspirations, our feelings album to date):ofour dwkc, we will ht• bettt·r Jim McCarty after that hand broke up, and was tht·n revived
I. Eric was one of the original Yardhirds. Can you name
for the: prksthood arc based on
able to st·rvt· tht· needs of hy an entirely diffen·nt group of musicians with limited
the last Yardhirds song rcll'ased in the ll.S. to feature him,
the same nccds and desiresotht·rs. 
success, was Renaissance.

and can you identify the instrument he played on that
which lead others to become
My first hesitation about life 6. The group which was extremely popular for two ycars
record?

doctors, lawyers, or engineers.
at Old College ccntcrt·d around in the mid-'60s hut broke up at the hd~o~ht ofthdr popularity
My first year ht·rc is a time of 2. lrnmediatdy upon leaving the Yardhirds, Eric joined
the contlkt hetwcen the wisht·s was, as their record company ( Dunhill) originally billed
what hand? 

dcvdopmcnt as I examine lloly
of the: onlcr and my personal thcm, The Mama's ami the Papa's. 
3. During the period between the dissolution of Blind
Cross more carcfully and con­
desires in relation 10 course 7. The singer-songwriter-actor who weott· tht· 1976 
con­Faith and the t(mnation of Dcrt·k and the 'nominos, <:tapton. 
sdection and major. But upon sider whether I want to Academy Award-winning song, only to quickly fade into
recorded a solo album. What was the hit single contained on
tinue in the f(mnation program
visiting Old Colkge and talking obscurity, was Keith Can-adine. and move to Mort·au Seminary
with the st·minarians there, I it? H. The Grammy Award given to the Best New Artist on tht·
4. He was the original lead guitarist ofwhat rather loosely
next ycar.
rt·alizt·d my fears wen· un­hcndit of one big hit, which was nevt·r tollowt·d up, was
organized and sometimes nonexistent hand which recorded
But whatever my decision
founded. awarded to tht· Star/ami Vocal Band, which consisted of
in the: late: sixties and e~rly seventies? .
about Holy Cross, I know I have 
No longt·r art· st·m inarians rt·­members ofJohn lknvcr's backup hand.
S. (a) N arne the other two members of probably his best.
come in nmtact with some fan­
quired to takt• Latin or any more 9. Tht: hand with an ignored first album in 1969, hut later
known group, Cream.
tastic personalities at Old Col­
theology than is requin·d by the which performed on a critil'ally destroynl John Lennbn al·
(I>) Name the other three: members of the short-lived h::ntl·
lege. My year at Old Colkgc can
llnivt·rsity. Though we arc cn­hum (Some Time ' Neuo York Cit)'), was 1:'/epbcmt's 
t·ouragt·d to take: more only he rewarding, for it is a Blind Faith. Memory. · 
(c) Name the "unofficial" member of Derek and the
year ofgrowth, t·xploration and
philosophy than what is re­I 0. The group considcred onl· ofthl·lirst punk rot·k hands, 
Dominos who played such an important part in the sound of
quirt·d. the policy rests not on most importantly, it is a time fur whose first album was producc;d hy Todd Rundgrt·n, was tht· 
their album that he was invited to tour with the hand.
oll'-ht·at intdlel'tualism. but on me to l>ettcr know myself. 
Neu• York Dolls. 

Whcn we brought 6. From the time Derck and the Dominos split up in 1971,
were to·

logical and pragrnatil' thought. The "just for tht• fun ofit" qut·stion: The t'arly punk·rockt·r
until 1974 t and his "comeback" after a long bout with heroin
gethcr, few of us even under­
In t·ssenct·. our course of described, whose only AM hit was a song smuggled out of
addiction, Clapton performed only two concerts. Oddly
studks is dt·sigm·d to produce a stood the meaning of another artist's recording session, was Patti Slnit/J. (llct hit
enough, both of them were rdeased as albums. Can you
wdl·rounded thinkt·r. aware of community. But through our was the Springstcc:n song "Because thl· Night," on which sht· 
name them?

himsdf ami tht· world around week spt·nt in Decr Park. rewrote most of the lyrics; on tht· rt·conl, credit f(Jr writing
7. What was tht· name of his "comeback" album?
Maryland, in early August, we
him. the song is given to "Smith/Sprin~o~stt·cn." On 'tht• . ac­
H. A rare phenomenon for the seventil's -both o;;if!es ofa
came to appreciate tht:. talents
·we strive to become in· companying picture sll't·vt•, only Smith's nt·w words· appear;
4S making the charts individually -happened to Eric with
volved in a widt· range ·of ex­ofour individuals rnemhl'rs and tht· one part of the song she left inta<:t from BnJct·'s tllpt· wa.' 
what two songs, both of which made the ·1:or 40? 
tracurril'ular activitks. One of how those talents formed our omitted from the: lyric sheet entirdv.)
9. One of the many hands Clapton perform'd with was a
intimate group. 

The Obse~===== 
~c:»cJlC3L~====~====================T=hu=r=sd=a=y,=A=pr=il=2=,1=9=8=1==p=a=ge==8
Molarity Michael Molinelli
Campus 
•8:30 
a.m.-4 p.m. -fencing: aiaw championships, aaf, S. 50 student admission. 

• 
3:30 p.in. -lecture: "the agnus dei and its tropes in dif­ferent traditions," gunilla iver­son. the institutione for klassiska sprak, stockholm, sweden, 715 memorial library. 

•1-4 
p.m. -bike unstorage, gate 14,.stadium. 

•4 
p.m. -rad lab seminar: "a high resolution spectrograph for the study of flames and dis­charges," dr. j.l. hardwick, nd, conference room, rad lab. 

•4:15 
p.m. -meeting: place· ment bureau meeting for all sociologyI anthropology majors, room I 02, O'shaughnessy hall. 

•6:30 
p.m. -meeting: students united for responsible energy, second floor Ia fortune. •7,10 p.m. -film: "camelot,"• engineering auditorium, SI ad­mission. 

•7:30 
p.m. -film: "xala," an· nenberg auditorium, sponsored by the department of com­mmunications and theatre. 

•8 
p.m. -videotapes: on problems faced by migrant farmworkers, in o'shag's satellite room, presented by floc. 

•8 
p.m. -concert: golden string quartet, little theatre, smc, sponsored by the depart­ment of music. 

•8 
p.m. -lecture: "the self conscious mind and the meaning and mystery of per· sonal existence," sir john c. eccles, f.r.s., nobd prize win­ner, memorial library auditorium, sponsored by general program, the depart· ment of biology, and the fresh-· 


man year of studies. 

Brown presents workshop 
Grayson Warren Brown, national­ly known composer and arranger of gospel music, will present a workshop entitled "Social Justice and Gospel Music," Saturday, April 4, at St. Augustine's Catholic Church, 1501 West Washington St. 
t 

Applications now available 
The applications for the 1981 Iiall Movie lottery are now available in the Student Union office. Those Notre Dame clubs interested in I sponsoring a film must file an ap­plication in order to be eligible for I the lottery. The applications are due I in the Student l'nion office on April I 9, by 4p.m. I 
I 

I Support Center I I
offers series I 
I 
I 

The Wellness Support Center of I Memorial Hospital will offer a series I in Vegetarian meal planning, April 7, I 21, and 28, at the Cornucopia Res­
I 

taurant, 303 South .\1ichigan St. 
I 

Part I on Tuesday, April 7 from 7 
I 

-9 p.m. will be conducted by Jane 
I 

Hobing, RN. The class will cover 
I

basic instruction in proper combin­
I

ing of food to meet daily protein 
I
needs. 
I

Part II on April 21 and April 28 from 7 -9 p.m. will be conducted I IbyJane Hobing, RN and Leslie Baker, cook at the Cornucopia. I 
I 





The Daily Crossword 
All Rights Reserved 





--1 
I 
I 
I 


• A Roosevelt University Lawyer's 1 Lawy_!!r's Assistant Program I 
ARA Services, Inc., a $3 billion 
Aaalatant represents the mark of quality : ROOSEVELT UNIVERSITY I 
and acceptance in today's legal 1 430 South Michigan Avenue 
I 

international service management
community. :Chicago, Illinois 60605 ·~ 
I

• If you are a college graduate and : (31Zl 34 t-388Z • 
corporation, will be on campus
I

qualify, why not give yourself an : Please send me information on advantage by attending Roosevelt 1 Roosevelt's Paralegal Program. I 
Wednesday, April 8
University's Lawyer's Assistant Program 1 
I 

which Ia fully accredited by the I ·-------­
I

American Bar Aaaoclation. :name_ 
to interview June graduates in 
• Since the Fall of 1974, 11150 graduates Iphone--------I representing over Z50 colleges and : addreaa, ________ I 
accounting, finance, business economics, 
unlversltiea have chosen Roosevelt's I cit I Lawyer's Auiatant Program for their : Y'--------­
I 

and economics for the position of 
career training. state zi'JI---­
I

• Specialize In: Corporations-Estates, n-uata and Willa-Utigation-Real I 
corporate intemal auditor in our John Estate and Mortgages-Employee Benefit I Plana • -or become a Generalist • 
Hancock Center, Chicago office. 
I 
• Over 350 law firma, banka, 
I

rorporatlona and government agencies Recruiter will be on throughout the United States have hired campua I 
Please contact the Placement Office RoiMevelt gradu.tea. I ..,._,.. '"".......,oc~m•·· ••uc~on.................or Apri19, 1 9 81 I 
for an interview appointment. 
lndlvlduollllllril ond whhuul ......,-d to ....,.., ....,, 
e.....t. ••· or phyobl hondleap. I 'IMifllntlpnwomonly 
I 
I 

ACROSS 24 Cotton or 1 Point of Increase land 28 Relatives 5 Where Cedar of depots Breaks is 32-fixe 9 Purplish 33 Blood 
pigment carrier 13 Copycat 34 little: Fr. 14 Dwarf 35WWII 15 Turkish operation 
bigwig 39 Bobble 
16 Revolution· 40 Feet: Lat. aryWar 41 Quechuan operation 42 Showup 
19 Novel again characters 44 Permanent 20 Mountaintop calling retreat 46 Crimson and 21 Actor scarlet Beatty 47 Original 22 Discharges 48 Confused 
Yesterday's Puzzle Solved: 


51 Certain 26-firma aircraft 27 Dosewing 56 Civil War 28 Charles 
operation of films 59 Coupd'-29 State as a • 60 Desert judgment 
dwellers 30 British 61 Luxury money 62 Controvert 31 Term of 63 Conserva· endearment 
tive 33 Egyptian 64 Earns lizards 36 Call for DOWN help 1 Singer 37 Desideratum 
Johnny 38 Movie big­2 Cap--wig: abbr. 3 Equal 43 Beautiful 4 Therefore 44 Constella· 5 Hungry tlon 
6 Trifles • 45 Gl offense 7 I love: 47 Likesome 
Lat. fabrics 8 That lady 48 Takinga 9 Most modern snooze 
10 Cupid 49 London 11 Flightless gallery 
bird 50 Freberg 12 Sea bird 51 At a dis· 14 One beyond tance 

hope 52 Valley 17 One:Ger. 53 Dies­18 Woman from 54 Deteriorate 
Wichita 55 Small' 22 Tresses bills 23 Moviedog 57 Havea 24 UMW snack 


Thursday, April2, 1981 -page 9
The Observer 

conIInuedfrmn page 12 

"I can't say how mtKh that helped me as a coach," Liduenherg says. "After just two years as a head coach, I can appreciate some of the prohkms that a head coach has. I think I'll he a better assistant now than when I workt·d with Earl Bruce. It helps you draw a hetter"pkture when you've seen it from both sides." 
While lkhtenhcrg appreciates what his ht·ad coaching experience has done for him, ht· doesn't seem to mind giving up a ht·ad position to become an assistant at Notre Dame. 
"There seems to he a great at· titude difft•rt·nce hcrt·," he says. "As a football <:oach coming to Notre Damt·, you fed as though you can play for the national championship, or ht· a determining factor in it, each yt·ar. Not too many s<:hools arc like that. 
"And that typt· of thinking docs a lot for your confidence. For mysclt~ as an assistant and hdng offensive coordinator, I ftTI I've probably gont· as high as I could go. being at what I fed is the number one school in tht· country." 
With that in mind. l.ichtt·nhcrg says he t·an only promise that en·ryone in the foothall program will do his ht·st to win. 
··sure, you're here to win," he nods. "But you can win in a lot of ways. A kid can he a winner and never play. If I can make him a hcttcr pt·rson when playing fi>r me-that's more important than playing an All· Amt·rkan who isn't half the person. 
"Coaches art· just like part·nts," l.khtcnherg adds. "The kids I'm coaching, tht·y'rc now my kids. You 
• • • Irish 
continuedfrom page 10 
straight st·t win at second doubks, dind1ing the Irish win. 
Aftt·r playing 20 of thdr .tlrst 21 matcht·s on th<· road. the Irish now play three home matches in as many days. Iowa comes to Courtney Ten· nis Ct·ntcr tomorrow at 2 p.m., with Butler playing Saturday, and the long·awaitt·d rt·match with Michi· gan on Sunday. 
"Iowa has a group ofhard hitters," says McMahon. "Last year we won 7· 1., hut I lost a three-set match in a tie-breaker, 5·4. Butler isn't as tough as Iowa or Michigan, hut we need to put a good t•ffort in to win." 
The Irish will bt· out for revenge against.Mkhigan who defl-ated them 9·0 last season. In this massacre, the Irish were only able to win one set. "Mil:higan is the big hoy on the hlock," says McMahon. "They arc tough fmm first singles to sixth singks. Wht·n we played them last year, they wert· at home. which was a distint·t advantage. This is our op· port unity to show ourselves." 
Kings 
defeat Blazers 
PORTlAND. Ort·. (AI') -Backup t't•nter Joe C. Mniwe'atht·r scort·d four points in the owrtinll', indml· ing tht· winning basket with 57 Sl'l'llllds rt·maining, as the Kansas ( :ity Kings surprised the Portland Traillllazt·rs l)H-')7 in a National Ba.,. kt·thall Association playoff game 
Wednesday night. 
Tht· vktory gave tht· Kings a 1·0 kad in the bt·st-of·thrt·e first round miniseries. Tht· Kings can dinch the st·ries with a vktory at Kansas City 
on l;riday night. 
Portland led H6· 76 with six minutes left in the game, hut Ernie Grunfdd brought the Kings hack with 10 fourth-quarter points. 
work with them, and you love them." · 
Lkhtt·nhcrg is currently in the process of teaching his kids a new offcnst· -one that would seem to 
promist· more diversity and com­plexity than Notrt' Dame's straight· ahead power attack of recent years. 
"We'll run power football, and we'll run misdirection football," Lkhtcnhcrg says. "We'll throw the ball short, we'll have middle routes, and we'll have deep routes. We'll have play action passing, and drop back passing. We'll do a little of everything." 
IRISH ITEMS: The national media once again was keeping a dose eye on Faust at yesterday's practice. Among those rcprescntt·d were the 
New York Times, Miami Herald, 
and two Cincinnati television sta· 
• • • Coach 
lions ... also in attendance were Dal· las Cowboys' super scout Red Hickey and Fr. Edmund P. Joyce, ex· ccutivc vice-president of Notre Dame and chairman of the Univcr· sity's faculty athletic board. 
Larry Kissnt·r, heir apparent to the center position vacated by John Scully, watdwd practice from the sidelines ou crutches yesterday. Kis· sncr sprained an ankle Tuesday night in his dormitory ... yesterday's only casualties were running back Greg Bell, who injured his right thumb, and walk-on tight end Kurt Zublcr, who twisted his left knee. 
Among those position changes made on the offt·nsivc unit, fullback Pete Buchanan has moved to a tight end. Tight end Mark Fischer, meanwhile, has been moved to cen· tcr. 
Women's track team makes progress 
By LOUIE SOMOGYI 
Sports Writer 
Tht· formation of a woman's trad'o dub is often thought .to be a cup· hemism for "Weight-Watchers Club." When the Notre Dame women's track dub originated hack in 1975, that was exactly the case ­weighty women looking to shed some pounds. 
However, since the enactment •Jf tht· sporting world's answer to ERA, Title IX, a more serious view has taken over many of the women's sports at Notrt· Dame, among them women's track. 
St·niorJohn Amato, student-coach of the women's track club hclicves that a new horizon is on the rise toward varsity status track hc<.·aust· of the progress that has been made in the recent years. 
"In the past this dub was a casual come-and-go, noncommital thing. People just came basically to lose some weight." says Amato, "Now, the talent is dcfinctly there, and the program is not hush league." 
Nevertheless, the financial status hinders tht· progress. 
"Right now our hudgct is $1,400 per y<:ar." explains Amato, "We spend S200 alone on transportation and gas for a single meet. It's like our Olympic athlete's. Sometimes we have to struggle Ill get our own van or timd money, but we try to make the best of it." 
"This year we have received S200 from outside sources, so people do sec a good program here in the making. I haven't been given any· thing definite from the University on varsity status, hut there's talk that women's swimming would earn var· sity status before track. That also depends on the allocation of the NCAA on limiting funds per team." 
The bottom line is that the dub has to learn to walk before it can run. No formal proct·edings an: hl'ing taken at the prescntli>r varsity status because the talent of the individuals has to he proven. Herein lies thl· 
progress. 
"We have a solid 25 girls on the dub now, which is a lot considering we can't give scholarships or that there is no incentiVl' in running for just a club. We alt<.·r our l¥orkouts now to tht· individual's abilities and 
from  there,  try  to  build  on  her  
potclllial.  
"But,"  <:ontinucs  Amato,  "wt·  

dt·mand excellence and quality in pni(Jrmance. This is a very st·rious program and our girls take it serious· Iy." 
We is ont· reason that progress has been made. Beside threc·yt·ar track· man Amato, st·nior Pat Sullivan and junior Tony llathcrly (also perfor· mcrs in Notrt· Dame men's track) as well as Mary Beth McGrath, a former middle school track coach hcrsdf, help with the coaching. 
Scnmdly, through the work of Club President Rose Ann Bellcmo and Vice-President Cindy McNally, as well as womt•n's athletic dirt·ctor, Astrid Hotvcdt, the dub has come to ht• rccogniZt·d hy other schools. 
"What we're doing is feeling out the dimensions of varsity status in these meets." says Amato, "We finished fourlh out of six teaams in an indoor invitational at Eastern M~t:higan. We didn't score in anoth· cr meu, '1ut we fielded pt·oplc in every event You have to also realizt· that ll) is the avnagc age 1ifour girls and they've been competing against pt·ople ages 21·25." 
The rt-cognition continues with a I'; team Invitational at WcMern Michigan Saturday hefilfc compel· ing in a five-team Notre Dame In vita· tional on April I I which Amato says is open to all girls in the University wishing to compete. 
Finally, another progressive st1·p in the club program has bct·n the talent that is just beginning to grow. 
"Most of these girls are very good athletes," emphasizes Sullivan. "There arc at least I 0 girls who could have rccdved scholarships to other schools. I don't know what they're doing at Notre Dame. I guess they came for academic reasons." 
Among the finer competitors arc senior co-captain Kathy Mcrra who has run an I I :04.0 3000 meters (a little less than two milcs) and sopho· more Mary O'Connor who has run a 
2:23.0 HOO meters. 
An abundance of freshman talent, though, may yet holster the dub to varsity status. Co-captain Rachel AI· len and all-state performer Lisa Monti from Tennessee have both recorded times of :.26.0 in the 2.20· yard dash. Classmates Stella Ossclla 
and Rosemary Desloge have also made their mark a.~ Ossclla has high· jumped five-feet, t(Jur-inchcs and long jumped I H-fect, live-inches while Dcslogt· an all-state performer from Florida has run a 5:0.2 mile and an II :05 two-mile. 

& 

lri:>h assistant coach Tom Uchtenberg obserws spring practice. (photo by Paul Mullaney) 
T!::IURSDAY NISiHT FILM SERlE~ 
Thursday, April 2 
Xala Dir. by Ousmane Sembene (Senegal) 1974 Banned in Its home country, this fierce and wildly funny satire of the pitfalls of Independence is a demonstration of the solid work by one of the most important of emerging .African directors. 
THE SNITE MUSEUM OF ART 
7:30 pm admission $1.00 
1 sponsored by the ND-SMC ~~COMMUNICATION & THEATRE:~~ 
ATTENTION ALL NO CLUBS: 
applications for the 1981 fall movie lottery are now available in the student union oHice. 
applications will be due by 4 pm on april 9, 19811n the student union office. 


.,Patef~mf 
Gentlemen, J.181-J'SJ. 
The FRANCISCAN FRIARS Invite you to a LIVE -IN EXPERIENCE with them during the month of April. Come join us for a weekend, or make arrangements for a few days during the week. 
For your reservation or for further Information contact Friar Richard or Friar William St. Anthony Novitiate 1316 W. Dragoon Trail Mishawaka, IN 46544 (219) 255-2442 

The Observer Thursday, April 2, 1981 -page 10 

Howard Hall won the interhall basketball championship last 
night by defeating Holy Cross Hall, 46-45. See related story at right. 
(photo by RachelBlount) 
, .................l·~ 
~NEEDED: .._ : :... Saint Mary's ~ : 
:~ ... : 
i~ !Reporters • : ! t \Feature Writerst! $ t tPhotographers t! 
,.. ~ * . •• 
: ~ ! Call Cathy )*
: 1 41-4380 
1-hall b-ball 

Howard does it again 
By BRIAN REIMER 
Sports Reporter 

Howard's Jimmy Dolezal sank a 20-foot desperation jump shot with just one second remaining in overtime to give the South Quad dorm a 46-45 victory over Holy Cross in the interhall basketball championship last night in the ACC Pit. The crown was the third straight for Howard. 
With 10 seconds to play in the overtime, Jeff Didion of Holy Cross hit a layup to put the Hogs ahead, 45­
44. After a Howard timeout, Jim Leonard lost control of the ball near half-court. Leonard managed to get the ball off to Dolezal who then let it fly with about four seconds remain· ing. 
Holy Cross called a timeout with 
0:01 showing on the clock. The Hogs' John Michel attempted to in­bound the ball the length of the court, but his bomb hit the ceiling, and Howard let the clock run out. 
"I lost controlofthe ball and dove 
for it," said a relieved Leonard. "I'm 
glad my opponent wasn't playing me 
any closer. I sawJimmy, passed it to 
him and thought, 'Please make it Jim­
my, and don't make me look so 
bad.'" 

"We're just lucky it went in," 
Dolezal added with a grin. "I didn't 
want to play again tomorrow." 

Had Holy Cross been able tu pull the game out, it would have forced another game to decide the double­elimination championship tourna­ment.. 
This marked both teams' second 
chance at the 1981 title. Howard 
lost to Off-Campus in the first oftwo 
games in the original championship 
tournament. Yet the next day it was 
revealed that the Off-Campus team 
had _been using an ineligible player 
throughout the season. The Office of 
Non-Varsity Athletic ordered that 
part of the championship tourna­
ment be replayed with St. Ed's 
replacing Off-Campus. 

Howard did not have to replay any games to get to last night's final. Holy Cross earned the right by nipping Grace in the final ofthe losers brack­et Tuesday, 45-44. 
In last night's nail-biter, Howard's Paul Mazanec had a chance to win 
COMMURICATIOR ARTS at NOTRE DAME 
Practical skill-oriented communications courses designed for teachers and for prospective professionals. M.A. may be acquired in four summers, or in two summers and the connecting academic year. Also open to nondegree students. 11 day session 
from June 23 to July 7. 22 day session from July 8 to August 5. Courses also available for entire 33 day period. Special feature of 1981 session: An all-clay Workshop on Writing and Designing Publications. Other 1981 courses: The Art of the Cinema, Television Production, American Short Fiction, Seminar in the Teaching of Short Fiction, Introductory and Advanced Photography, •on · fiction Writing, and 28 Propositions about Mass Medta, Film as Insight, Creative Writing, Design, Television 
in American Life, Publishing, Public Relations, Independent Projects. Write 
Prof. Donald P. Costello, Chairman, Department of Communication Arts, University of Notre Dame, llotre Dame, IN 46556. 
the game in regulation time, but missed an uncontested layup with about three seconds remaining. A length-of-the-court shot by Holy Cross' John Schaefer hit the back­board as time expired. 
Mazanec and Leonard were the high-point men for Howard's bal­lanced scoring attack with 10 points each. Andy Hicks chipped in nine points and Bob Kcenahan added eight. Howard hero Dolezal scored six points and Mike Courey rounded out the scoring with three. 
Schaefer and Michel paced the Hogs with 12 points each. Ralph Hogan added 10. 
McMahon leads Irish 
By ED KONRADY 
Sports Writer 

They say it's lonely at the top. But when you're the number one singles player on N<Jtre Dame's tennis team, that lonliness is almost non-existent and winning becomes a way oflife. 
Yesterday the Irish knocked off a 
potent Western Michigan team in 
Kalamazoo, 7-2. And leading the 
Irish was its number one singles 
player, Mark McMahon. 

McMahon, a sophomore from San 
Diego, Cal., is in the midst of his 
second year in pressure-packed top 
spot. Last year, he went through the 
intrasquad challange matches with­
ou~ losing a single set. In his first 
campaign, McMahon accumulated 
an impressive 16-7 record at singles 
and an 18-5 record at doubles with 
Mark Hoyer. 

This year McMahon has a 15-5 
record at singles and 9-8 at doubles. 
In doubles, McMahon is 8-7 with)im 
Flavey and 1-1 when paired with 
Tom Hartzell. 

As a senior at Point Lorna High 
School, McMahon was ranked 
second in the city ofSan Diego in the 
18-and-under division and 16th in 
Southern California, also in the 18­
and-under category. 

McMahon was offered scholar­
ships to San Diego State University, 
the University ofSan Diego, and the 
University of California at Santa Bar­
bara. When McMahon talked to the 
coaches of these universities, he 
remarked immediately that "I would 
only consider them if something 
went wrong with Notre Dame." 
McMahoQ is predominantly a 
baseline player, with an exceptional 
return ofserve. "I rely on my return 
a lot," he admits. "If I'm returning 
well, I'm playing well." 

McMahon's serve was a sore spot for him last year. ''I'm not winning a lot of games off of my serve," says McMahon. "It isn't a very hard serve, but it's getting better." 
Over spring break, the tennis team took a swing around McMahon's home turf with stops in Los Angeles and his hometown. Playing against some of his old op­ponents was "pretty exciting," ad­mitts McMahon. "I had a tremendous desire to personally play well and to have the team do well.'' 
The matches did not live up to his hopes, however. Against Point Lorna College, Notre Dame won 9-0. But against the University of San Diego and San Diego State University, the Irish lost by the scores of 7-2 and 9­0, respectively. The Irish finished the trip 6-4, 1-3 in San Diego. 
"We were playing very talented 
teams, but I wasn't pleased with my 
play," said McMahon. "I don't want 
to make any excuses for it. I feel that 
I am playing much better now than 
what I showed." 

Yesterday, McMahon and his Irish 
teammates knocked of Western 
Michigan in a match that all the Irish 
players agreed was closer than the 
score indicated. McMahon expected 
a "tough team match," and of his 
familiar opponent, Steve Winsor, a 
"tough individual match -he has 
such good groundstrokes." 

McMahon got everything he bar­gained for -an emotion-packed three-set victory. That win put the Irish up, 4-2 after the singles and put them in a somewhat secure position. But as two of the three doubles matches were heading into third sets, the Broncos set emed in a posi­tion for a comeback. McMahon and Falvey, however, coasted to a 
See IRISH, page 9 

• • • Diamond 
continuedfrom page 12 
"I'm not saying that we're going to win the Midwest Regional every season, because that's just not realis­tic. But I really feel that we can reach the point that we will have a top­flight program. 
He points to things like new foot­
ball coach Gerry Faust's decision to 
let members of his team try out for 
the baseball team. 

"There are a lot of good athletes 
on that team," says Gallo. "And all 
you have to do is look at people like 
Rick Leach, Kirk Gibson andJohn El­
way if you don't think you can do 
both. People say that a quarterback 
can't play baseball because he can't 
afford to miss spring practice. Well, 
maybe I'm wrong, but I thought 
Leach and Elway were pretty good 
passers." 

Any help that Gallo may find on 
Cartier Field will be much­
appreciated, since the baseball 
program is allotted four scholar­
ships, nine below the· NCAA­
prescribed limit. 

"Hey, it would be great ifthey told 
me I could have 13 scholarships, but they've made their decision, and I'm not going to let it get me down.'' 
No, the future success of the Notre Dame baseball program won't be discovered on Gerry Faust's ros­ter. It will come from Gallo himself. 
Besides the endless time spent drumming fundamentals into his team, Gallo does the little extra things. A canvas on the fence surrounding the field, top-rate bul­lpen mounds and a sign with the Irish schedule painted on it won't make any difference in Notre Dame's won-lost record. But here lies the secret behind Gallo's success. 
"I believe if you're going to do something, do it right or don't bother with it," he says. "I like to take pride in what I do, and I want my kids to do the same. 
"No matter what the outcome of 
the game or season, I want the kids 
to remember that they're represent­
ing the University of Notre Dame." 
If Gallo can get his players to 
adopt his atti t tude, it shouldn't be 
long bcfo·re they're representing the 
University of Notre Dame in the 
NCAA tournament. 


~~(),-tS~IJ~~~~~·~~~S~=============================T=h=u=rs=da=yr,A=p=ri=I2=,=I9=B=I==p=a=ge=I=I 
by Thl' Ohffm•r and The Assuaated Pnr1 An Tostal mudvolleyballpairings are now posted ­outside student union offices on the second floor of LaFortune to _the Saturday's football practice wm be open to the right of the glass door. Please check the draws before ,~onday, Apnl 6, puhlk. It Is the only spring session that will he open. Coach Gcr~y when th t e first round begins. Any questions, call Katte at HOH I. Faust asks only that parents keep control of small ~hildrcn f~>r thctr 
Yesterday's Results 

protection. The session hegins at I :30 p.m. All sprmg practices arc 
Notre Dame 7, Western Michigan 2 
open to Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students with_ I D's, as well as to 
faculty mcmhcrs with passes obl:ained through the foothall office. The Notre Dame golf team defeated Valparaiso by a score of 392-4 I 0 in a dual match yesterday on Burke Memorial GolfCourse. Notre Dame's Tim Sacheck had the best round ofthe day, SINGLES 
No. 1 -Mark McMahon (NO) def. Steve
shooting a three-over-par 74. Notre Dame's record is now 2-0 as the 
Wtnsor 6-4. 4-6. 6-4.
Bookstore BasketballCommissioner Rob Simari has Irish head for the Ball State Invitational this coming Monday. 
No. 2 -Herb Hopwood (NO) def. Paul announced that tht·rc will he a maJ1datory meeting tomorrow night at Walker 5-7. 6-3, 6-2. 
6 p.m. in the l.ihrary Auditorium. One member of each team must No. 3 -Scot! Spoerl (WM) def. Mark Hoyer 7-5. 6-0.
aucnd to get a sdwdulc for the tournament. All waiting-list teams that 
No.4-Paul Summervtlle (WM) def. Jtm 
were admjllcd to the tournament must bring the S2 entry fcc to the Mark "The Bird" Fidrych is returning to the 
Falvey 7-5. 6-1 ll1l'Cting in onkr to play. Detroit Tigers' minor league dub in Evansville, Ind., after compiling a Ho. 5-Tom Hatzell (NO) de f. Jeff Stas­dismal 11.40 ERA in spring training and being shelled by the Pitts­sen 6-2. 6-4. No.6-Tom Robtson (NO) def Dan Kas­
burgh Pirates in his latest outing. The Tigers announced yesterday that 
son 6-~. 6-4
the team had obtained major league waivers on the 26-ycar-old pitcher who was American League rookie of the year in I976 with aThe Irish baseball team won its home-opener yes­19-9 record and an ERA of2.;H. But Fidrych has been plagued since byterday, winning the first game of a doubleheader with Indiana, 4-3. 
DOUBLES

injuries, including arm trouble. One ofFidrych's worst performances 
No. 1 -Hopwood-Hoyer (NO) def came Tuesday as the Tigers were defeated q-5 hy the Pittsburgh The Iloosiers ralicd to win the explosive nightcap, 16-14. In the first 
\l'~;odlor-Spoerl2-€'. 6-4. 7-6 (7-5).
game, Notre Dame pitcher Bob Bartlett ( 2-2) went the distance, 
flo. 2 -McMahan-Falvey (NO) def
Pirates in an exhibition game. Fidrych threw one inning and gave upgiving up just tlvc hits while striking out six. Sophomore Rick Chryst 
Walker-Kasson 6-2. 6-2
three runs on four hits and two walks. "It was lousy," Fidrychwas the Irish hilling hero, going two-for-three with two RBI in the 
No.3-Tim Noonan-Paulldztk (NO) del.
conceded. "It should have been a lot hellcr. It's going to come. You're 
Stassen-Summervtlle 6-4. 2-6. 7-6 (12­
Notre Dame victory, and six-for-sl·vcn on the afternoon. Over the two getting hit, you're gelling hit. You know, it's got to come. It's got to go 
10).
gaml·s, Chryst scored tivc runs and drove in six, including a three-run 
Notre Dame record. 14-6
your way one of these days." When asked point-blank, Fidrych saidhoml-r in the nightcap. In that second game, Indiana scored II of its 
Next Match: tomorrow vs. Iowa Haw­
there was no douht in his mind that he'll he on the 25-man rostl·r that16 runs in the last two innings. The fatal blow camt· with one out in the 
keyes. Courtney Tennts Center. 2 p.m
heads for Detroit to start the rc~ular season a week from today.
sevl'nth, the Irish leading 14-ll. and the hases loaded. Hoosier sopho­Fidrych said he'd be pt·rfectly happy working out ofthe bullpen. "I feel morl· Tony Nelson dubbed a grand slam home run to clinch the In­good," Fidrych said. 'Tm throwing strike:;. I must he throwing strikes,diana victory. The Irish out-hit tht· Hoosiers in the second game. 
because they're hilling me. So, I'm throwing strikes, hut I'm not17-15. llcnry Valenzuela went thrcc-for-thrl'c and scorl'd four Notre 
throwing thl·m by anybody. Right?" -AP
Daml· runs. Jim Monta~o:ano, Dan Szajko and Tim Pristcr had two hits apicn·. The Irish arc now 5-l 0-I on the year and play host to Saint 
Thurs., April 2 

Mary's (Minnesota) tomorrow for two games beginning at I p.m. 
6 00 -Smells Ltke Ftsh vs. Steve 
Theobald
The annual Blue-Gold game, marking the om­
6 30-Drtppmg vs Mtke Welch
cia! end ofspring football practice, is schcdukd ti.>r Saturday, May 2 at 
7 oo-Water Rats vs Ktller TomatoesThe NBA playoffs are underway. On Tuesday night, will he admillcd at no chargc·upon presentation of thl'ir student ID I p.m. in Notre Dame Stadium. Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students 
7 30 -Wtld Wafer Wombats vs Orear s' 
Philaddphia ddeated Indiana I 24-I OH, and Chkago upset New York, 
Porkers
cards at Gate I 5 on(J'. (;cncrill admission tickets for the public arc 
IJO-HO. Philadelphia travds to Indianapolis tonight for the scnmd 
Fri., Aprll3

· available in advance at the ACC's Gate I 0 box oflke from 9 a.m. to 5 
~-:arne of the hcst-of-thrn· series, whik Chicago will host New York 
6 00-Assasstns vs Skywalker
p.m., Monday through Friday. Prices ti.>r these tickl·ts arc S2. •;o for tomorrow night. Last night Kansas City dd(:atcd Portland 9H-97 and 
6 30-Splashtng lnsh vs Pal McDtvt\1
adults and SI for pl·oplc 17-and-undcr. Tickets will also he available at Los Angell's hostl·d llouston in a game played latl' on the west_ co~s~. 
7 00 -FJghttng Ptranha s vs Vantlla
the stadium on game day priced at $_~.50 and SI. 50 respectively.
Tomorrow night, llouston will host Los Angeles and Portland wtll vtstt 
Thunder
There will he no reserved seating. The game is sponsort·d annually hy Kansas City. Division champions Boston, Milwaukee, Phoenix, and San 
7 30 -Hurncanes vs. BtU and the Bul­Antonio received first-round byes. 
thl· Notre Dame Alumni Club of St. Joseph Valley and supports the 
fleheads
club's scholarship fund which currently sustains 16 area students at 
All teams must be at The Rock 15
the University. 
mtnutes before game ttme. 
-···--------------.------------------------''----------------, 
All , :.lSSrhr") ·Hh mqsl PP rerervpf1 t,.,. ~ -l5 ~ m lvvn t1J~S Dr.,Jr 10 lhl' 
,.,.,~.•· 11· whri. hIt,,, 11! •s run fh,.. Observer ulf•ce wd. ~~ t r!pl r ',I':>Stlrf.ld~ 
rv'l~tl•d .., •rr,,,qh Ft•ol"~\ I 0 00 ,1m h1 S·OO 1J m A1J rlassrht•(ts '"II~ I tw
Classifieds 
prr Jl<~rd , • ' .. r ,. IH'I!n)n • • lhr(HJytl !lli' m..td 
--~~·~·~-----....:·~~:=.::..-...::..:::::::::.::-..::::::====:.::·::,=:-:==:-==========================================1
~·-· ------,-~. <...omputer Termtnal (mtcro-term model CALL BEENER AT 41-4634 AND ASK MIKE PERRI G~ theCollegtateJazz Festtvai·-Aprtl Act-1A) wtth Modem $500. Call 272-HERABOUTTHEFIVE,INONENIGHT!! Do all Southern Studs play basket-tO&10 7613 ball on gravel courts? 
[-FOR RENT=.J 11 
CATHY K)JRILA (BEENER) TOOK FIVE ALTERNATIVE COMMENCMENT 
For sale-pa1r of Jensen speakers m good shape-able to crank $125 Paul at IN ONE NIGHT!! MIKE PERRI There wtll be a meettng lor anyone tn­3331 Had a great Itme wtthout you. Thanks terested tn organtzmg lor an at-
Furnished 4 bedroom house for next school year close to campus. good 
INSTANT CASH PAID FOR C~ASS TO all those who stopped by 206 HOLY 
for not commg ternat1ve commencment speaker
CROSS last Frtday ntght THANK YOU HOUSE CALLS 255·2402 
tor a great t1me. You are all the best 
RINGS $20-$85 OR MORE WE MAKE Ka,ren
area. 277-3604 or 288-0955 Monday, Aprtl 6 at 7 p m tn the Wal~h 
Hall south loungeCharlie MIKE PERRI Summer houses and rooms, furntshed,
FARMWORKER WEEK' We hear you're double ma1ortng tn FARMWORKER WEEK! HELP. DID YOU HAPPEN TO PICKUP A 
walk to campus. cheap rent. 277-3604 PANGBORN HAPPY HOUR FRIDAY 3-7 
SPRAINED ANKLES & BAD EXCUSES FARMWORKER WEEKI LARGE BROWN DRESS BOX IN THE
or 288·0955 AT IRISH COUNTRY 3 DRAFTS-$!.
What are the pre-requ1s1tes? LOBBY OF THE CHICAGO MARRIOTT 
PtTCHER-$2 AVAILABLE NEXT SCHOOL YEAR 2 t need 3 (that's three) graduation tick­
OVERSEAS JOBS · Summer-year ON SUNDAY AFTERNOON DURING MIKEV
FIVE BEDROOM HOUSES. NEAR NO. ets. (Yes. folks, it's starting already.) II MAAYKRUSE.
S Amer . CHECK-OUT. CALL
round Europe. Australta. IF SO PLEASE Do you always sktp out of the ltbrary
LEASE. DEPOSIT 234-2626 you can help me, call Scoop at 1772. 
Asta All ltelds $500-$1200 monthly BUFFY. 277-3990. IT CONTAINS MY on a spramed ankle? 
Thank you lor

Stghtseetng Free tnlo Wrtte IJC, Box • FORMAL. 
AVAILABLE SUMMER AND NEXT Need EXTRA GRADUATION TIX badly -. South Shore Lme, the Marnott. Bur­52-IN4. Corona Del Mar. Ca. 92625 
DAVEY" MEADOWS HEY 5-CI 
SCHOOL YEAR 1 AND 3 BEDROOM PLEASE call Mary P_at at 8091 ger Ktng, Sears Tower. Gene and Geor­
Ntce try. but you don't lte. Why don't Are you ready to be TOM. SCOTT. BILL. BRIAN. BOB. TOM 
APARTMENTS 234-2626 gettt's. Korbel In the morntng. Head 
you let Mtkey' try?

HELP! I need ONE graduation ticket--if and Shoulders and Fran go Mmts. cold
honest wtth yourself? and especially PINA Gay Students of Notre Dame You were really great 
Graduate Students 5 Bedroom home. you have an extra ttcket. please call showerl. Evtta. photographtng the 
How does Karen spell reltel? S-P-R-A-1­

lnlorma11on lme fully lurntshed. washer, dryer Safe Rtch at 287-8596 Any asststance IS Love ya. town. the green· nver foxy yellow netghborhood Ntce. 288-3109 greatly appreciated dress. Ella and the bongo player. cutest
N-E-D A-N·K-L-E 

232-8659 Kathy 
Wed & Thu" 10-12pm 
couple. danced out legs. accosted
MANDATORY 

BOOKSTORE SMC SENIORS! FREE CHAMPAGNE!
Furntshed 3-4 bedroom house lor sum­wht\e s\eeptng. Old 51 Marys. Farrah 
MEETING Tomorrowntghtat6pm tn 

mer. $200-mth 233-3552 Fawcett. Btackhawks-Red Wtngs.
TYPING DONE IN MY HOME UNIV You can still p1ck up tix for Sen1or the Lib. Aud. One member of each team shots !rom the pomt. wmd blown hatr
PARK MALL AREA 277-3085 
Brunch. Go lor 11. MUST attend ntce netghborhood?. poltce protec­tiOn, theenttre Fantasy Island weekend 
The Jazz Festtvalts Bac~·-Don I Mtss 11-SMC Senter Brunch tix still available ATTENTION SMC FRESHMEN! 
(wtthout the ktds) 
Aprtl 10 & 11 [ WANTED Stop'" at the alumnae olltce, the olltce ApplicatiOns for next year's commts· 
JANE-0 DOES NOT HATE SCOOP. 
'" LeMans closest to the library extt. s1oners are avatlable NOW at your I Love You. MANDATORY BOOKSTORE BASKET· One last chowdown with your friends. hall's front desk. We encourage 
your Frango connect ton BALL MEETING Tomorrow ntght at EVERYONE to apply. Get mvolved Wtlh 
P S Busy next weekend? 

6pm '" the Ltbrary Audtlortum One Needed Rtde to N W Chtcago lor BUMPERSTICKER Reagan for UMOC 
the Class of 64! weekend ot April 3 Can leave '"alter­(I) WHEN YOU SAY NOTRE DAME.
memberoteach team must be present 
noon Call Mary Julie. 41-4376 YOUVE SAID IT ALL Teresa. I hope the meats wtlt be better
Let's have a three rtng ctrcus: a degree GOOSE,
(2) WHEN YOU SAY IRISH. YOU VE than your CirCUitS Good luck on satur­
for Bonzo too I 
WHEN IS ROCKY COMING DOWN

EASTER BRK FLY SOUTH SAID IT ALL" day davtd 
AGAIN ? I THINK THE FEELING ISANYWHERE BET ATLANTA AND WIN­$2 each Send check or money order 

Jell Jailers ts dtsgusting. 
MUTUAL WHEN 1SAY THAT I WOULD 

TERHAVEN FLA FOR $140 to. Scoop.
LOVE TO SEE HIM AGAIN 

ROUNDTRIP 3005 OR 8171 IRISH" Why dost thou speak '" thy god s
[ioST/FOUNOl 
NATURAL PLANNING IN·
FAMILY 
STEVE STETZ 

P 0 BOX 336>1 1d1om and not mthme own?
-------~--J 

FORMATION NIGHT MONDAY. APRIL Need rtders to Columbus. OH.. leavmg STUDENT MUSICAL ACTS WANTED
CHAPEL HILL. N.C 27514 an assoctate ol Bruce god 
6, 7:30-8 30 PM. HAVES-HEALY LOST A patr ol blue sandals siZe 7 t-2 Frt. Aprt13 Call Jell1803 AUDITORIUM APPLY IN PERSON AT IRISH 
Just how ugly ts Jell Jeffers? That's a lie I have noassoc1atesamong 
at Pangborn SYR T before break CALL COUNTRY OR CALL 232-011 I folk such as theeIF YOU NEED AN EXTRA ROOMMATE 
4451 PRO BURKE bruce god 
TO LIVE OFF CAMPUS NEXT YEAR. PRO BURKE LIVE MUSIC EDDY ST. KNIGHTS LOST LARGE-BROWN DRESS BOX IN HE MAKES THE CHILDREN CRY I!!I FRIDAY NITE AT IRISH COUNTRY 
CALL ME JIM. 277-3685 Jell Jeffers IS so ugly, he knows tt! 
Thts has .. gone beyond funny RIOT SUNDAY AFTERNOON MARCH Need nde to Milwaukee Thurs. before GOODE IS BAD PRO. YOU'RE AN UGLY MAN III Kevm LoveJ~Y d~te-~ted Joe-mama Or­Someone has ototen my clothes They 29 IF YOU FOUND IT PLEASE CALL oaster Wtll share expenses Call GOODE IS BAD fano. 6·4, 6·4, '" a cruc1al mter­were taken from the Badtn laundry 277·3990 Jetrdreat6013 GOODE IS BAD WE WANT TO BUY A BOOKSTORE roommate tennts match held Monday. room th1s past weekend A reward IS of. 
Jtm Goode lor UMOC 
THE LOBBY OF THE CHICAGO MAR­SAVE THOSE PENNIES FOR UMOC 
TEAM. CALL US IF YOU'RE TEAM March 31. on the Courtney Tennis lered for the1r safe return Call Mtke at LOST A while cotton blazer. no but­NEED 3 RIDES TO PITTSBURGH FOR WOULD RATHER DRINK THAN Courts. Alter the stratght-sets victory 1601.8661 or 1715 EASTER CALL GREG-3451 OR SUE HIGGINS--GET A REAL JOB 
FARMWORKER WEEKI 
tons. satin lintng Posstbly tell at SMC PLAVIIII CALL 1650 FOR INFORMA-by Love1oy. Joe-mama commented. Ftndar please call283-8663 TION I "I'll gel 'em next time I" Love1oy. gross­
284-5329. FARMWORKER WEEK ly ou\ ol shape s1nce hiS recent retire· DAN LEDUC FOR UMOC DAN LEDUC
DESPERATELY NEED TWO NO LOST A navy· blue skt vest (3 colored Once agam. Keg·s a sweetheartl rnent from sem1·profess1onal soccer. WILL MAKE YOU PUKE 
GRADUATION TICKETS CAN YOU strtpes on shoulders) wtth large snap· was out ol breath
too to make any

HELP? PLEASE CALL RUTH AT 41­pocket on back Lett on second ltoor of FOR SALE This is something sweet 
statement. 0 Now that everybody tn the Yukon
5459 lor Shtrley:Memortal ltbrary Tuesday ntght If knows who lam. what s the p01nt? 
What would we ever do Without you? 
found. contact Dentse Smtih at 6766 Wheat-DON'T TELL ME .. NOT ANOTHER A Its a mooseteryl But tis JUSt lor
The mind boggles at such a sttuatiOn. 

amoosement!
BASH AT KEN STACK'S .303 CAMPUS 

What do you do wtth a phone? Dtal. The recently-paid Observer stall 
LOST-SMC RING FOR SALE. Peavy 300 watt bass amp What tsyour tavortte soap? Dtal. a moose Moose
CLASS BLUE VIEW .. FRIDAY THIS TIME SO WE ALL Love today are STONE. ENGRAVED S.S 83 CALL Who tells the best Jakes? Dtal. Desp~~~tely ~e~d-nde to·~~;·gtrllrtend HAVE TWO DAYS TO
15'" spkr like new $325 x8549 elegant' (Sure I m crazy. but tis more 284-5329 RECOVER MANY KEGS BE THERE. 
lun thts way.) 

Who are you taktng to the formal Satur­in Appleton. Wts. tor Easter break. Call 
7S AMC Pace; CallRose 41~43o4 ... ALOHA! Moose Coillrol
day? DIAL' Jim 1159 



• 

Thursday; April 2, 1981 -page 12
Sports 

Tom Lichtenberg 
New coach mirrors Faust 
By PAUL MULLANEY ten and as quickly as Faust. He joins Notre Dame's staffafter serving 
Sports Writer shouted as many instructions as did as head coach for Morehead State Faust. He smiled as often, and as big, (Ky.) for the last two years. "All I Last Saturday. when Notre Dame as Faust smiled. know is that I can't wait to come into opened its 1981 spring football It would seem as though either work in the morning -and I come workouts, Gerry Faust was the cen­Lichtenberg and Faust were poured in with a smile on my face. ter ofattention. Hundreds ofpeople "Much of that has to do with attended the Cartier Field practice Coach Faust. He's great to work with
Spring Football'81

to catch a first-hand glimpse of the -just super. He exemplifies to me a 
new Irish coach. Anu everyone true Christian. He puts everyone 
seemed to marvel over Faust's non­else first, and himself second. He's 
stop enthusiasm. from the same mold, or the ex­demanding, but he has to be." Everyone, perhaps, but Tom Lich­cessive energy that has quickly Lichtenberg and Faust started to tenberg, who was too busy being his become Faust's trademark at Notre become very familiar with one an­own enthusiastic self. Lichtenberg, Dame is highly contagious. other in 1962. That's when Faust the new offensive coordinator, "I guess I'm a lot like him," smiles was in the process ofstarting a foot­moved up and down the field as of-the 39-year-old Lichtenberg, who ball progam at Cincinnati's Moeller High and Lichtenberg was head coach at nearby Mason High School. 
"We were going after many of the same kids back then," says Lichten­berg, a Cincinnati nat t ive. "The kids in our district who wanted to go to a Catholic school went to Moeller. And they took a lot of good ones from us." 
Lichtenberg later JEOVed to Pur­cell High School in Cincinnati and coached against Faust. He served as an assistant coach at Morehead for one year before moving to Iowa State in 1974. In 1978 he served as Iowa State's offensive coordinator under current Ohio State coach Earl Bruce. A year later he received the head job at Morehead, and he says his experience there was "invaluable." 

Notre Dame split a doubleheaderyesterday with Indiana Univer­
See COACH, page 9 

si~y See Sports Briefs on page 11. (photo by john Macor) 
Diamond in the rough 

spring break, and disaster struck. Several times the Irish watched almost helplessly as seemingly certain vic­tories against powerful teams evaporated into defeat. Notre Dame returned home with no victories, seven losses, one tie (on account of darkness) and a lot of questions. 
"I know a lot ofpeople are wondering if last year was a fluke," admits Gallo, "but I don't think it was. That's whyit's so important for us to do well this season." 
Gallo won't use it for a crutch, but it's a fact that he's had to replace some key performers from last year's 
Less than a month into his first season as Notre Dame team. Shortstop Dave Bartish, who hit .422 to set a baseball coach. Larry Gallo is fighting a battle of school record and gain academic All-America recogni­monumcntal consequence. His Fighting Irish are 5_ _ tion, is at the University ofMichigan's MBA school. Mark
10 1, and he knows that has to change soon. Simendinger, who provided the big plays both at third Don't misunderstand. By no stretch of the imagina-base and at the plate, is a Chicago accountant. Catcher tion is the hard-working and immensely-popular Gallo's Dan Voellinger, Notre Dame's all-time RBI leader, is in job in jeopardy. On the contrary, Notre Dame's baseball the New York Yankee farm system. fortuncs are on the rise despite the sub-.500 record, and "We do have some experience, but I don't think Gallo is the biggest reason. It's just that Gallo ack-people realize how young we are," he says. nowledges there is a very real danger ofthis 1981 Notre· Gallo doesn't believe that a team can learn to win in a Dame baseball team losing something very precious to single season, but allows that a poor season in 1981 it -its winning attitude. could do immense damage to the progress made in Before last spring, the Notre Dame baseball team's 1980. winning percentage over the last several seasons would "We'll lose a lot ifwe don't have a winning season, but make a good batting average, hovering in the vicinity of I don't think that way -I just hope our positive attitude .-iOO. But in his last season as Irish head coach, Dr. Tom will carry us through the season." Kelly ga\'c (;allo a huge going away present -a 29-8 The former baseball captain at the University of record, best in the school's history. Rhode Island has lofty aspirations for the future ofNotre Gallo. a first-year assistant in 1980, played na bit role Dame baseball, in spite of the constraints he works un-~ in that miraculous turnaround. To a man, the Notre der. He shares, with every other Notre Dame coach, the Dame players give him a huge portion of the credit for heavy burden of convincing highly-qualified student­last spring'!> success. And when Kelly announced his athletes to attend Notre Dame. But Gallo has to deal resignation at the outset of the 1980 schedule, his with the unique stigma that plag~es Northern baseball recommendation of Gallo as his successor met with schools, that their brand ofbaseball is inferior. quick and wholehearted approval. Gallo, though, isn't biting. The 1980 season held far more significance than the "I think it's a huge fallacy that they play better gaudy 29-8 record, though. The players began the slow baseball down there," he says. "Ifyou give us the good process oflearning how to win. Instead ofwa1king onto weather as early as they get it, we'd play just as good a caliber ofball."
the field hoping to win, the Irish bounced onto the field expecting to win. Rather than wondering which oftheir Likewise, he isn't daunted by Notre Dame's feared admissions office.
players would make a crucial late-inning error that would spell defeat, the Irish forced their opponents into "All of the kids here arc great competitors," he mar-costly blunders. vels. "They're competitors in the classroom, and there 
It was a remarkable change. are some great athletes on the interhall fields. The type 
With six players who had extensive starting ex-ofstudent that comes to Notre Dame is a real credit to periencc and the core of the pitching staff back, ex-the admissions office." pectations ran high for 1981. Perhaps this spring the Gallo is convinced that Notre Dame's baseball Irish would nail down that NCAA bid they thought they program can be built to the point that it can compete de served a year ago. with anybody in the Midwest. 
They embarked for Tennessee and Mississippi over See DIAMOND, page 10 


Irish Items 
-INTERESTED ONLOOKERS -Notre Dame has been both under the pen and under the eye ofSports Illustrated in the last 10 days. Writer Ray Kennedy has been researching and preparing an article on much-heralded grid mentor Gerry Faust, which should appear in the magazine within the next couple weeks. An SI photographer trained his equipment on Faust for the better part of two hours during last Saturday's maiden spring practice. 
SI staff ace John Underwood is also preparing a story on Notre Dame, the publication date of which has not been determined, al­though it will probably not be in the very near future. 
THE ENVELOPES PLEASE -The final tallies are in for the three senior starters on the Irish basketball team. 
Kelly Tripucka, who has left the brotherly confines of Philadelphia for the less halo-ed revelry of Las Vegas and the 1Oth annual Pizza Hut Basketball Classic, finished a strong fourth in his bid for Irish career scoring honors. His four-year total of I,719 points finished behind Austin Carr (2,560), Adrian Dantley (2,223) and Tom Hawkins ( 1,820 ). During his stretch drive from 15th place to fourth place on 
, the all-time Irish list this season, Tripucka passed such Irish notables as Bob Arnzen (1,665), Don "Duck" Williams (1,433), Collis Jones ( 1,367),John Shumate ( 1,334),Jack Stephens ( 1,314), Larry Sheffield ( 1,255), John Smyth ( 1,236), Rich Branning (I ,232 ), Dick Rosenthal ( 1,227) and Dave Batton ( 1,205 ). 
Tripucka also made his statistical mark in several other categories. He stands fifth with 629 career field goals made and a.548 ( 629-1 148) career field goal percentage. His 461 free throws rate the third spot on that list while his 578 charity attempts are fifth and .798 free throw efficiency third. 
Tripucka will join Roger Burkman ( Lousiville ), Franklin Edwards (Cleveland State), Jeff Lamp (Virginia), Mike McGee (Michigan), Wayne McKoy (St. John's), Ray Tolbert (Indiana), Elston Turner (Mississippi), Herb Williams (Ohio State) and 'AI Wood (North Carolina) on the East squad for the Pizza Hut tournament. Denny Crum ofLouisville will coach the East squad during the April4 classic, which will be televised nationally by CBS Sports from the Las Vegas Convennion Center. 
Tripucka also has a date at the Aloha Classic to be played in Honolulu later this month. 
The Essex Fells, N.J., native will have one familiar teammate in Hawaii, since frontcourt mate Orlando Woolridge was also named to the Aloha roster. Besides earning second team All-America honors from The Sporting News, "The Tree" was an honorable mention selec­tion on UPI's national team and also made Basketball Weekly's all­Mideast honor roll. 
Woolridge outdid his previous seasonal scoring outputs with a 402-point effort in 1980-81. Many ofthose points can be attributed to his precision from the field, since the 6-9 forward finished third in the country with a sizzling .650 ( 156-240) field goal percentage, just .006 behind Bruce Flowers' school standard set in 1978-79. 
The Mansfield, La., product's .595 careerfield goal mark was second in Irish annals only to John Shumate's .610 clip. He also landed in the top 20 all-time scorers, staking claim to the 17th spot with 1,160 
points. 

TracyJackson also leaped into the top 20 all-time Irish scorers with his 362-point output this season. jackson finished lith with 1,293 career markers while moving up to seventh with a .531 (526-991) 
career field goal percentage. His 526 field goals rated I Oth in the final Irish career calculations. 
SHARP SHOOTERS -Two high scorers on the women's basketball team, Maggie Lally and Shari Matvey, have been named to the second team university division academic all-America squad by the College Sports Information Directors ofAmerica. 
Lally, Notre Dame's fourth all-time scorer with 496 career points, has been named to the squad for the second straight year. She owns a 
3.7 academic average in the pre-medical program and will enroll at the University of Pittsburgh medical school next fall. A native of Sharon, Pa., Lally owns Irish marks for career assists ( 233) and career steals ( 147), as well as single game assists (nine). · 
Matvey, another honor student in the pre-medical program, is the top scorer in Irish female books with 943 points in her first two seasons. A product of Austintown Fitch High School in Ohio, Matvey holds 27 school rtjcords after her sophomore campaign on the ACC hardwood. 
ET TU TOUCHE' -Notre Dame and Saint Mary's will be co-hosts for the first annual AlA W Fencing Championships April 2 through 4. 
Nineteen teams, including 1980 champion Penn State, will com­pete in the three-day, three-session event. Other entries include the Air Force Academy, California State-Berkeley, California State-Los An­geles, California State-Northridge, Clemson, Cornell, the Naval Academy, North Carolina, Ohio State, Penn, St. John's, San Jose State, Temple, Wayne State, William and Mary, William Paterson, Wisconsin and Yale. 
Two returning champions head the 46-fencer individual field, including 1980 champion Gina Farkashazy of Wayne State and 1979 titlist Joy Ellingson of San Jose State. Saint Mary's Twila Kitchen will also compete. 
Tickets arc $1 for each of the three sessions, while a three-session pass is available for $2. Students will be admitted for half-price upon presentation of identification cards. 
Bill Marquard's Irish Items which normally appears on U day, will resume its usual schedule next Wednesday. 



