----~~----~-­
. 

. Hesburgh -page 6 



VOL XV, NO. 11 5 ' an independent student newspaper serving norre dame and saint mary's FRIDAY, MARCH 27, 1981 
Poles may White speaks on strike again U.S. foreign policy 
WARSAW, Poland (AP) By TONI AANSTOOS tion in El Salvador would improve, Panicky shoppers scrambled for News Staff according to White, if the US food yesterday on the eve of a stopped viewing the nation as a massive strike triggned hy the The ex-ambassador ofEI Salvador, hattie ground for communism and regimes unexpected postponement Robert White, critiqued President's recognized the presence of an aut­of talks with Solidarity labor union. Rcgcans policy towards El Salvador hentic revolution. Warsaw TV showt·d its longest before a capacity crowd last night in "The domin:.mt thread of the US program yet on Warsaw Pact ()'Laughlin Auditorium. policy .is fear of revolution," he said. 
maneuvers, and the Kremlin called White called the policy one of Responding to a question pertain­tht· situation "t·xtremely tense." "strength and toughness", lahcllcd it . ing to overall military policy, White 
The lines outside Warsaw food "too simplistic." and said it said, "We should de~mphasize shops, stretching for blocks, were "dclinked human rights and military nuclear weapons and spend more on the longest in rn·ent memory, and assistance." conventional arms. We don't have ~hoppers wc:re buying vinegar, peas, "It'slike handing out a licenst· to kill. the optimism as humans to set· war beans and anything else they coul(,l We now send advisers to teach to as an impossibility; thndorc, we get their hands on in advance of the kill," the official said. have an obligation. But there is a four-hour walkout today and an White also said the presence of quantum difft•rence between con­open-ended general strike set to leftists is overemphasized in the vt·ntional arms and nudcar arms," hcgin Tut·sday. Reagan administration's view he replied. 
"Why am I buying five honks of tow.llfds El Salvador. He proclaimcd White cited four liS ohjcctivcs in vim·gar?" one woman asked. that Reagan "prcconccivcd this its policy towards El Salvador which "Frankly, I don't really need that whole adventure in El Salvador to 'includt·d: hacking reformed govern· much hut everybody is buying impress the world with an easy vic­mcnt, preserving the military as an t·vt·rything and anyway what is this tory over supposed communism. institution to check armed Marxism, 
money worth?" Ninc months of They don't really care about El Sal­assisting the rdormcd government labor unrest havc aggravated vador," he added. and promoting respect to human Poland's inllation and helped pile up The official then emphasized the rights and maintaining rc:volution­
a 527 billion lkht to thc West. danger ofaccusing the Soviet Union ary change. 
Thc government said the talks of provocative acts whurc none ex· "The US, Venezuela and other with Solidarity wcrc postponcd ist. White continued to explore the countries have helped to actualize from ycstcrday to today because gencrallJS foreign policy saying "the many of these objectives -at lcast both sides were holding privatc con­US has always stood against change." in part," he added. sultations. But the announcement White delivered his remarks to a White, who advocated the Carter t·aught Solidarity hy surprise, and crowd who reacted hoth positi~dy administration's policy of human thc union declared its warning strike and negatively to his comments. rights, said he hclievt"d that this ob­would he launchnl at H a.m. to 2 a.m. He contended that the core of in­jective has been lcast sue<:cssful un­
(EST) as originally plannt·d. ternational problems did not stem der the prest·nt prt·sidcntial lkspite tht· warning strike, union from communism, hut rather from 
See WHITE, page 5 lcadns said they expectt·d a govcrn­repression. The controversial situa­mcnt commission to finish its inves­tigation into tht· beating of labor anivists in Hydgoszcz last week ­tht· incident that set off the latest 
Plaiforms stress improved campus life
nisls -and have Its report ready for any resumption of talks. 
ByJEFF HARRINGTON graduation an outdoor event, r .:wsletter, and orgamzmg a class Class unity is emphasized as the Tht· warning strike will he tht· t1rst and DAVID RICKABAUGH acquiring an off-campus student skip day to a Chicago Cubs game. main focus of the Cunniff ticket;major walkout since Gen. Wojcicch News Staff center, and promoting monthly Dennis Durbin, Tom Haling, Mark tht'ir slogan is "Wt· aim to please;Jaruzc:lski, tht· dcknsc minister, masses at the grotto. Mai, Tim McMahon, Tod Nacheff, your aim will help."
became prime minister last month The platforms of candidates run­The goals of the Lupo campaign and Julian Rowe head the six tickets Among the major proposals of theand appealcd for a l)O-day ning for offkt· in the three class elec­include increasing off-campus/on­competing in the junior class elec­Dcvcro ticket arc a "Heat tht· IIcat moratorium on labor protests to tions all strt·ss ways to improve the .campus cohesion, using the Senate tion. BcKh Party," various sports days on givt· his govcrnmcnt a chance to quality oflife at Notre Dame. Scat to promote senior privileges, The proposals ofthe Durbin ticket Green field, and a "Lend a !land" 
forumlate and launch an economic Five tickets are competing in the and having well-organized tradition­include the presentation of a class tutoring program.
rt·covcry plan. class They arcsenior election. al senior class activities. formal in early December and the The DcJutc ticket plans to or­Warsaw Radio said Jaruzclski met headed hy presidential candidates The Martin ticket stresses its reduction of membership in the ganize SC\'l'ral class excursionsyt•stcrday with Poland's Roman Gene Barra, Jim Giblin, Tom Lupo, ability to offer "energy. experience, class advisory council from two during semester hrl·ak, to work to Catholic primate, Stefan Wyszynski, John Martin, and Tom Schuler. and enthusiasm" to the class of'H2. representatives per dorm to one "to establish a fair stmknt lottt·ry sys­and hoth "expressed the conviction Barra emphasizes aThe ticket Major goals of the Schuler cam­increase efficiency ofthe group." tem, and to hdp fight crime onthat thc conflicts and tension can he 
senior class "Woodstock," football paign include allowing off-campus In order to "increase the social campus.solved hy peaceful means." 
road trips. a booze cruise, a canoe residents to send district domain of the campus" the Haling Organizing retreat days, protest­See POLAND, page4 trip, and a golf tournament, while representatives to the Student Ad· ticket aims to improve the NO beach ing the haskethall lottery system, the Giblin ticket advocates making vlsory Council, publishing a class area, show outdoor movies, and or­and orgamzmg sophomon· ganize a winter carnival. weekends in Chicago and Mil­The Mai ticket plans to sponsor waukee arc some of the major goals speakers, publish a monthly class ofthc Lynch ticket. 
In Barbados 
newsletter, and conduct individual Included in the Nanni platform hall sponsored events for the junior are plans to sponsor parties li1r tht· class residents ofthose halls. Logan Center children, a sophomore 
The goals of the McMahon ticket class formal, and Wl'l'kcnd ski trips indude the scheduling of class ac­to Michigan. 
BRIDGETOWN, Barbados(AP)­Services, had abducted Biggs, Midlands. The robbery by Biggs and tivities to off-weekends to help The Osorio ticket intt·nds to fot·us Authorities Tuesday awaited Scot· hoping to sell their story for a large 14 other men netted 2.63 million relieve study pressures and the on class unity and communication land Yard's fingerprints of Ronald price. pounds, then worth S7.2 million, placement of class announcemcm through thc distrihution of a Biggs to confirm that a man they and at the time the world's richest boards. newsletter to students stlldying have in custody here is Britain's cash haul. Most of the money was The plans of the Nacheff ticket in­abroad, a sophomore "Olympics" 

Searchfor train robber ends 
FRIDAY.•.•.•,•.....·.·.·~··························· .·.·.·.·.·.·.·····························~·.·.
fugitive Great Train Robber. If he is, not recovered. clude a ski trip to Boyne Mountain, a and talent show, and utilization of Britain says it will seek to put him The rohhery was eclipsed in wdcomc hack mass, and publicized dorm representatives. hack in jail after 15 years offreedom. 1976, according to the Guinness class meetings which would he open The main goal of the Thompson
=====================FOCUS
The S 1-ycar·old Higgs, who Book of World Records, when guer­to all. ticket is to increase involvcmcnt of est·aped from prison in Il)65 and has rillas blasted vaults of the British The proposals of the Rowe ticket the sophomores through intcrhall het·n living in Brazil, was carried feet Photographs in British Hank ofthe Middle East in Bab ldriss, include involvement in community sports leagues, various hall sm:ial 
first out of a Rio de Janeiro res­newspapers appeared to leave little Lebanon, and escaped with an es· service through the adoption of a events, and community involve­taurant last week in what friend'> said doubt that Biggs was the man ar­timatcd S20-S50 million. nursing home, the sponsoring of a ment with Logan Center. was a kidnapping. The man claiming rested in Barbados after the yacht on Biggs was sentenced to 30 years in clothing drive, and the running of a to be Biggs was arrested Monday on which he was held by five Britons prison, but escaped in 1965, went to haunted house for charity. Elections for off-campus commis­a drifting yacht off Barbados on broke down. Australia, and later turned up in The class of '84 presidential can­sioner will take place in conjunction which he was under guard. Barbados has an extradition treaty Brazil. didates arc Casey Cunniff, Greg with the class elections. Hill Chris­
British prt·ss reports said former with Britain, which wants Biggs for As the man claiming to be Biggs Dcvero, David DeJute, Bernie topher, Gus Hinojosa, Kathy Elena memhc:rs of Britain's crack anti­the I963 robbery of a London· Lynch, Lou Nanni, Oscar Osorio, and Jurado, and Anne Maureen SloweySee ROBBER, page 3
terrorist unit, the Special Air Glasgow mail train in the English Boh Thompson. arc cntercd in the race. 
Friday, March 27, 1981 -page 2



News Brie/§ 
( 
• 
by The Observer and The Associated Press 
Consumer representatives and members of 
Congress assailed the Reagan White House yesterday for accepting S270,000 from oilmen to redecorate the president's living quarters. Former Watergate prosecutor Archibald Cox said it "shows a surpris­ing insensitivity" to the danger of mixing money and politics. "The White House belongs to all the people and should be refurbished by all the people, not just representatives ofa select special interest," said Cox, now chirman of Common Cause, a citizen's lobby. Sen. William Proxmire, (D-Wis.), said "there is no way to escape the clear connec­tion between the pro-oil policies ofthe adminstration, worth so much to the industry, and the payoff in contributions to the White House." 
-AP 

The official governmentmeasurement to determine whether an urban family offour is poor has been raised by $1,000. The l..abor Department says that under the new official poverty level, such a family may now earn 58,450 and still be considered poor. The poverty level for a farm family of four has been raised by $850, to S7, 190. The raising of the poverty line reflects increases in consumer prices of the past year, the department's Employment and Training Administration said. The revised poverty level guidelines are based on recommendations of the Office of Management and Budget, which defines the government's official poverty line. Those guidelines are used by a number of federal agencies in determining the income 
·ettgih1ttry ~f'llppltt:lnts fr programs that assist the poor. -AP 
The OklahomaState Senate has killed a proposal 
which called for the castration of certain convicted rapists. The bill sailed through the Oklahoma House earlier this week. It provided that lighter sentences could be offered to rapists who volunteered for "asexualization." But members of the Senate said such a measure would give the state a "black eye" in the world. "We've received calls about this from Hong Kong, Australia, Canada and throughout the world," Senate President pro tern Marvin York said. "I'm afraid the state is being made to look backward." The bill also has drawn strong criticism from many physicians and psychiatrists, who have said it would nor curtail violent sexual attacks, and might even cause violent sexual criminals to become more violent. -AP 
The actress gasped, clasped her hands to her face and began to cry as the verdict was announced. Her husband, Joe Hamil­ton, seated behind her, kissed her on the cheek. There was a great gasp in the packed courtroom as the verdict was announced. The figure of damages -$300,000 in general damages and $1.3 million in punitive damages -was almost precisely the amount Miss Burnett's a.ttorneys had asked the jurors to award. The jurors were asked to determine three basic issues in the case -whether the Enquirer item accusing Miss Burnett of boisterous behavior was false and defamatory; whet­her it was published, with "actual malice" on the part ofthe Enquirer, and whether Miss Burnett was entitled to a monetary damage award. The verdict came shortly after lawyers expressed concern the panel might be deadlocked. -AP 
Thomas G. Marullo,assistant professor ofmodern and classical languages, is among the 11 winners ofthe Lilly Endowment, Inc.'s 1981-82 Faculty Open Fellowship Competition. Marullo, assis­tant professor of modern and classical languages, and the other; win­ners to pursue innovative work-study and research programs. This is the seventh year that the Lilly Endowment oflndianapolis has selected college and university faculty members to receive the fellowships. Those selected have profe5~5iar\M l!evelopment interests that cannot be adequately served by conventional fellowships. The competition, limited to Indiana colleges and universities, was open to scholar/teachers in mid-career who want to take a break from academic routine to pursue individually designed programs in the United States as well as abroad. Each of the 43 pJ;ivate and public colleges and universities in Indiana was invited by the Endowment to nominate up to three faculty members for the fellowship awards. In­stitutions with und t ergraduate enrollments of7,500 or more students could nominate up to two additional persons. The 11 winners were selected from 52 candidates from 25 institutions. -The Observer. 
Retreats International, which sponsors a continu­
ing education program for those in retreat and pastoral ministry, will 
offer its fifth annual institute this summer at the University of Notre 
Dame. Rev. Thomas Gedeon, S.J., director, said that from 400 to 500 
persons are expected to attend the three sessions, running from)uly -13-17, July 20-24, and July 27-31. Father Gedeon also added that this will be the first year that a Bishop (Robert Morneau of Green Bay, Wis.) will be teaching on the faculty. Many ofthe faculty teach at other universities and are actively involved on a practical, pastoral level. Those attending the yearly institutes arc people in ministerial educa­tion. such as campus ministry, formation work for religious com­munities, parish education programs, and hospital personnel. Courses are experiential, rather than academic, and are designed for "recreative learning, to provide support within the ministry," ex­plained Father Gedeon. Retreats International was founded in 1927 and is now a component of Notre Dame's Center for Pastoral and Social Ministry which coordinates and supports a variety ofprograms addressing the special needs ofthe church. -The Observer 
Partlysunnyand mildtoday. Highs in the upper 50s to low 60s. A slight chance of thundershowers tonight. Lows in the upper 30s to low 40s. Thundershowers likely tomorrow. Highs in the mid to upper 60s. -AP 
, 

Explaining one for the (iipper 
Herb Juliano's eyes were opened wide, big as a little boy's who is telling you about skinning a lizard or hit­ting a double. The sports archivist, who is a well-known figure to everyone from Sports Illustrated editors to trivia freaks, was talking about his favorite subject ­football legends and the accuracy thereo[ 
If it was the responsibility of the 1928 Irish football squad to "win one for the Gipper," it is Mr. Juliano's responsibility to explain one for the Gipper. He has been doing a lot ofthat lately, for a variety ofreasons. 
For instance, there is the matter of some 91 reels of film his department recently unearthed Among the treasures hidden in the nitrate film cannisters were a 1 9 30 game against USC, the last game for which Rockne was coach, and an uncut version ofKnute Rockne, All­American, one of an apparent 16 versions in existence and one whose ownership rights are questionable. 
The 1930 game is interesting in itselffor its record of Rockne and it's status as oldest complete game film in the collection. But the uncut film version for the movie is even more interesting. 
First, there is a renewed fascination with Knute Rockne, who will be remembered Tuesday on the 50th anniversary of his death (he is buried here in South Bend at the 
Highland and never spoke with repor­Cemetery under a small ' ters; there exists no stone marker). The Los An­recorded interview with the geles Times devoted a full legend. page to various stories As to whether the Gipp surrounding his legend and actually spoke the immortal the legend of George Gipp, words to Rockne on the his star halfback in 1920. prectptce of death, Mr. The legend of the two have Juliano is skeptical. been inextricably bound "I think it was a psycho­around· the central legend of logical ploy," he says, George Gipp's deathbed, leaning back in his chair and what did or did not Freud-like in his spartan transpire there. library office. "Though there 
As legend would have it, 1 are people who knew Knute Rockne was in the Rockne who say 'ifhe said it, room with a priest, who was it must have happened,' supposed to have baptized there are also people cog­the non-Catholic Gipper. nizant of his psychological Valient George then told skills. You see, 1928 was 
Rockne, according to legend, that "...someday, when the boys are against it tell 'em to win one for me." And eight years later, when the story was first told by Rockne in the half-time lock­erroom against Army, the team did just that. 
When the 1940 film canonized the legend there ensued some apparent legal difficulties with one Alexander Gipp, brother of the deceased and resident of Lauriam Michigan, who threatened to sue for the al­leged inaccuracies contained in the film's deathbed scene. He claimed the presence of a Catholic priest in the room implied Gipp had been baptized. Nothing ap­parently came of the threats, but the film was later cut when sold to television for unrelated legal rights reasons. 
According to Fr. Henry Glueckert, a retired priest living at Holy Cross House on Douglas Road and Notre Dame resident since 1910, there was indeed a priest at George Gipp's deathbed. Further, the priest baptised the dying halfback. Mr. Juliano said that Fr. Glueckert had spoken with a parish priest, Fr. Patrick Haggerty, about-Fr. Haggerty's last minute baptism ofthe Gipp. 
. ··-·::::::t 
~ . --------~-I 
r--fhe_Ohse~ler __I 
Design Editor............................. Mike Monk Design Assistants......................... Kim Kohl Tom O'Connor Don Rodriguez Kevin Korowicki Layout Staff....................... Stephen Abowd Typesetter ............................... Bruce Oakley News Editor........................ Tim Vercdloui Copy Editors ........................... Paula Groves T.). Conley Sports Copy Editor............. Chris Needles Typist....................................... Kathy Murray Systems Control.. .............. Stephen Brown ND Day Editor..................... Darcy Connor Ad Design ............................ Woody & Anne Pbotographer ................... , ........ ]ohn Macor Guest Appearances........... Macor Surprise: Griffand Darbatius Vanian Typesetter 
Tho Observer (USPS 598 920) !s published Monday tnrough Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is published by the students of Notre Dame and 
I 

Mr. Juliano related the second hand account of the Gipp's "being converted through the blink ofan eye ora tug on the shoulder," after the almost comatose patient was asked ifhe wa_nted to be baptized. It was a wish The Gipp had previously expressed, Mr. Juliano said, quoting Chet Grant, the quarterback of the 1921 foot­ball team and teammate ofthe Gipp. 
According to Grant and a recent article in the Los Angeles Times, The Gipp was a high-spirited man, 25 years old when he registered at the Dome, and no stran­ger to the downtown pool halls. He lived off-campus and, while he was voted captain of the squad during spring practice, was removed for apparent academic reasons, Mr. Juliano said. He was something of a loner 

Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $?0 per year ($10 per semester) by writing The 

University Park Mall and 
Ob11rvar, P 0 Box a. Notre Oame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Indiana 

Town and Country­
46556. The Ob~ervar is a member or the Associated Press. All reproduction 

Mishawaka
._________________.,
rights are reserved . 

Rock's worst season (he went 5-4-0 that year) and Army was a powerhouse at the end of the schedule. They were behind 6-0 at the half, and Rock desperately wanted to win it to salvage his season." 
Even though it was eight years after his death, the Gipper was still remembered by the football squad, and with good reason. The Gipp held almost all the of­fensive records, and the figures seem like concocted tales themselves. For instance, he averaged 8.1 yars a carry, a record which still remains unbroken. He had the highest yards passing per completion average in the country, a higher-average, in fa<;t, than the 1980 NFL average. 
Of the legal questions surrounding the film's recrea­tion of any Gipp folklore, there is no problem. In a Sports Illustrated article this January the author of the film, John Driscoll, said he was "amenable" to reissuing the film in the uncut version. Ifonly they could lay their hands on one.... 
And that's the kind of talk that makes Herb Juliano 
happy as a little boy skinning a lizard. 


The Observer Friday, Marc~ 27, 1981 -page 3 

Strike inevitable 
UMW boss pushes contract 

(AP) United Mine Workers Presi­dent Sam Church launched a whirlwind tour of the eastern coal­fields yesterday to sell miners on a contrat agreement as 160,000 UMW members prepared to strike at mid· night. In Ohio, 250 miners jumped the gun ad walked out to protest terms ofthe proposal. 
The union's current contract was 
set to expire at 12:0 I a.m. (EST) 
today, making at least a short strike 
inevitable. Union members vote on 
the contract Tuesday, and Church 
was han king on hi~> ability to sell the 
proposal to the rank and file to keep 
he walkout brief. But with opposi­
tion growing in the coalfields, the 
union prcsidt·nt had his work cut 
out for him. 
The new agn·cmcnt negotiated with the Bituminous Coal Operators Association calls or a j6 percent raise over the next three years, a dental plan and increased pensions. 
But tht· economic gains were ac· complishcd through tradcoffs on job security issues, including dimina· tion of royalties coal compnies pay on non-union coal. 
Church opened his seven-state, five-day campaign yesterday in Pitts· burgh, where he predicted the con· tract will be ratified by 65 percent of the miners. 
"I'm sure that when they look at this package we'll get a great majority-a big vote," he said. 
The miners will be briefed on the contract proposal during district and local meetings beginning Friday. But miners engaged in the Ohio wildcat strike were "reacting to some of the things they've already heard about the tentative agree­ment," said Tim Lyons, president of UMW local 9685. 
Much of the opposition in the coalfields focused on the issue of allowing non-union coal to be processed in UMW 'plants under whch tht· operators would no longer have to pay a $1.90 royalty into the UMW pension fund on each ton of non-union coal processed. 
Other prov1s1ons criticized by miners include a two-year limit on recall rights for laid-off miners and a 45-day probationary period for new employees. 
Union officials say the probation­ary period was a trade-off for elimination of the national Ar· bitraion Review Board, which the union said favored coal operators in grievance cases. 
The wage increase, which amountsto an extra S3.30 an hour over. three years, would boost top scale in the mines from S84. 52 a day to $110.92 daily by 1983. It also would increase the cost of union­mined coal by as much as $6 a ton, according to the New York invest· ment firm Merrill Lynch. 
Unlike many major national uni­ons, the UMW has no strike fund. A UMW official in Washington said miners traditionally "save up" in an­ticipation of contract talks, and some locals pool funds and set up food co-ops. 


In the Senate 
Leaders favor budget cuts 
WASIIINGTON ( AP) The St·natt· set out yesterday to enact a virtual carbon copy of President Reagan's blueprint for scores of bil­lions ofdollars in spending cuts over tht• next three years. 
"No unrealistic recommendations arc ofkrnl," Budget Committee t·hairman Sen. Peter Domcnici, R· N.M., dcdarcd as ht· prt·scntcd his panel's proposal for SH7 billion in appropriations through 19H3. lie touted the pian as a "historic packagt· of spending restraint." "Major spending rcdunions arc cs­st·ntial," agrt·cd Sen. Ernest Hollings ofSouth Carolina, tht· top Democrat on the Budget Committee. Senate Rt·publican Leader Howard Baker said Rt·agan would gel "a high pcr­ccntagt:'" of the cuts he is after, and no ont:' seemed prepared to argue that prt'diction. 
Rt:"agan's proposals would cut dn·ply into social programs such as food stamps, unt'mploymcnt in· surance, Social Security benefits and publk st·rvict:' cmp,l_oymcnt. Some 
ISO sponsors 

festival 
Tht· Intcrnallonal Student Or­wmization is sponsoring the annual International Student Ft·stival and One-Earth Marketplace. 
The International Student Festival will take place at H p.m. on March 2H in O'Laughlin Auditorium at St. Mary's Colkgt·. The ISO invites all students, f:u:ulty, and friends of Notre Damt· to come sec the perfor­mers which indude students and fat·ulty nu·mhers of various nationalities. A Japanese tea ceremony, Chinese dancing, Latin­American music, and French and Irish singing arc some of the enter­tainment planned for the night. Ad· 
mission will ht· free and 
rcfrt·shments will bt:' servt:"d after the 
show. 
The ISO will sell goods from several different countries Aprll6 to April 10 from I I a.m. until 3 p.m. each day oq the main floor of l.ah>rtunc Student Center. '!be One· Earth Marketplace will exhibit such items as picture fi'amL'S and jewelry from the l'bilippinc!;,' marble 
·ro~aries and wooden shamrock bran·lets from Ireland, and pendants from Taiwan. 
Democrats said in advance that they would attempt to restore some of those li.mds, hut they hardly exuded optimism. 
Domenici, responding to criticism that the administration's suggt·stcd cuts would impost' heavy burdens on the poor, declared, "The rhetoric about this budget recom­mendation destroying the social compact hctwet·n this nation and her people is more than overblown. It is wrong." 
Domenici's committee set the following targets: $2.8 billion in cuts in 19H I; S36.4 hill ion in 1982 and 
continuedfrom page I 
sat in a Barbadian jail, authorities took into custody John Miller, who has identifit·d himselfas a director of the security firm Point Blan~ tJ;tat hl\lj claimed responsibility for abducting Biggs and bringing him here hy plane and two-masted yacht. Miller was not immediately charged with any offense, police said. He has been in Barbados since the weekend ap­parently awaiting the arrival of the yacht. 
In London, a dispatch from Bar­bados said Miller was also known as John McKillop and the security firm was named as Single Point Security Ltd. It offers security to rock and film stars, businessmen and others who could he targets of terrorists, according to Miller. He said most employees have military back­
547.7 billion in 1983. Democratic whip Alan Cranston said bd(>rc the debate began that despite disagree­ments over individual cuts, his party didn't want to increase the Reagan budget deficits. That assured that Democrats and Republicans alike would line up behind massive reductions in planned spending. 
Tl'chnically, the Senate was dcbat· ing guidelines to congrt:"ssional com­mittees to make the actual cuts in programs under tJv~ir jurisdiction. But Baker said I' .J--'l'Ctcd as much as five days of debate as the Senate wrangled over spt'cific programs. 
grounds. 
Reporters saw police take rifles off the yacht when they towed it into Bridgetown Harbor Monday eve­ning. 

The Nation;'•;· ·a Barbadbs newspaper, said that police and cus­toms officials were trying to trace an unidentifit:'d boat which rt'portedly collected a l:!rge parcel from the yacht, named Hocani II, shortly here it entered Bridgetown Harbor. 
According to Radio Barbados, Biggs told police Tuesday that he wants to return to Brazil. But British High Commioner (ambassador) Stanley Arthur said extradition proceedings aimed at getting Biggs hack to London would start as soon as Barbados police could positively identify him through prints being sent from Scotland Yard. 



~uno's Pizz~ 
South on US 31 to Western Turn~ right onto Western to Chapi Go left & take a right on Prairie 

Bruno's Pizza ~0 Prairie -288 -3~ 

The carefree life ofthe l'acationing student is socmforgotten as tbe workaday classroom routiQe resumes. (photo byjohn Mucor) 
~SUNDAY MASSES A'l'"S:ACIED 
~~~  HEART CHURCH  
campusministry  
5:15 pm Saturday  Rev. Robert Griffin, C.S.O.  

9:00 am Sunday Rev. lliels Rasmussen, O.P. 
10:30 am Sunday Rev. Richard Berg, O.S.O. 
12:15 pm Sunday Rev. Austin Fleming 
7:15 pm Vespers Rev. Richard Berg, O.S.O. 

• • • robber 

The Observer Friday, March 27, 1981 -page 4 In Texas 
College dotninates stnall tow-n 

KEENE, Texas (AP) -Travelers driving into this north central Texas town on Highway 67 might not notice that the fast food joints end at the city line. 
Without stopping, they wouldn't know that the post office is closed on Saturday instead of Sunday and that the sole grocery store has one of the most extensive arrays of natural foods and meat substitutes in the state. 
The modest frame and brick houses that line the highway reveal little about this town of 3,400, located SO miles southwest of Dal­las. The only hint comes from a small sigfi that points the .way to South­western Adventist College. 
The college, built in 1893, is the hub of the town -and its largest
The typical "Thank God it's Friday" expression is written all over 
employer. The college president,
theface ofthis mentally exhausted student. (photo byjohn Macor) 
Dr. Don McAdams, estimates 90 per­
--cent of the town's residents are Seventh Day Adventists, and says 
most of them are involved with the college. That's because the college owns 
Applic'ations for! 



Assistant Treasurer 
most of the town's businesses, including the motel, the gas station, 

Student Government 
the Lorna Linda Food Store, the car wash, the shoppingcenter, Brandom 
Kitchen Cabinet Co. and Southwes­tern Color Graphics, a print shop. 
must presendy be a sophomore and 
going into accounting· 
Together, the college and its businesses gross $1 5 million a year, McAdams said. 
pick up applications in the Treasurer's 
Southwestern Adventist has only 700 students, but its tuition is
Office 2nd floor LaFortune 
among the highest in the state ­51 52 a semester hour. McAdams 
said the professional programs of­fered require expensive equipment and low teacher/student ratios. 
applications due Friday, .April 3 

4:00pm 

"The way the students pay it is by working," he said. "And that's sort of the essential uniqueness of the town...That's why all these in­dustries are here. About 85 percent ofthe students work 15 to 20 hours



ATTENTION: Freshmen 
.. 
a week." 
Some businesses -like Nu­Cushion, the nation's largest stick horse manufacturer -are not owned by the university but still rely on student labor. 
"Some of the industries were started by the college specifically for the purpose of providing labor for the students. Others were started by people who just realized that this was a good labor market," McAdams 
said. 
Others were taken over by the university when they encountered financial problems. An example is Brandom, the town's largest opera­
tion. 
"The college, having several hundred students working over there, couldn't take a chance on let­ting it go under, because then where would all the students work? So the college ended up bailing it out and taking it ·over," McAdams explained. 
The university-owned businesses operate under the umbrella of Southwestern Diversified In­dustries. The college business manager is the mini-conglomerate's president. Managers of the various businesses are the vice presidents. 
"In a sense, we just change hats. We have a meeting as the board of the college. We then adjourn that meeting and start a meeting as the shareholders of Southwestern Diversified Industries," McAdams said. 
Adventists shun all drugs and most are vegetarians, McAdams said. They emphasize fresh air, exercise, and low intakes ofsalt, sugar and fat. 
. "Adventists believe that when a person dies, he just dies, that's all...But at some point in time, there will be a resurrection," McAdams said. When the resurrection comes, Adventists believe, the dead will rise as a whole -body, mind and spirit. 
, 
Thus, health is an important 
doctrine. 
Another characteristic of the Ad­ventist lifestyle is that they worship on Saturday -the seventh day of the week. 
The town has no movie theaters or bars, and students adhere to strict curfews. Blue jeans are in abun­dance, but female students may not have hemlines above the knee, low­cut necklines or noticeable makeup. 
In the college's vegetarian cafeteria, 20-year-old James Wein­gardner was campaigning for stu­dent body president, running on a platform of more service projects and more spirituality. 

Jeff Bromme, a 20-year-old social science major, doubles as the state's youngest newspaper publisher. He bought the Keene Chronicle for 
SS,OOO last year at age 19. 
A staunch Democrat, Bromme jabs at the town's Republican majority in his editorials, but says, "I don't think that there any revolutionary new changes coming to town." 
He says he plans to sell the newspaper before leaving Keene to attend law school, probably at the University of Texas at Austin. If Bromme does leave for graduate work, he may be an exception. 
"There's a certain number of 
people who come here to go to 
school and they sort of stick," 
McAdams said. "A certain number of 
parents come here to put their kids 
in school and they sort ofstick." 
McAdams said he sees "a definite 
tendency among Adventists to clan­-· 
nishness," but he tries to discourage 
it. 
"I think people should go out and be a part of society and influence others," he said. "They won't in­fluence anyone just living among themselves." 
.. .Poland 
continuedfrom page 1 
One ofSolidarity's chapters, in 
southwestern Jelenia Gora, ap­
pealed to Pope John Paul II to 
help solve the Polish crisis, and 
the Polish-born pontiff was said 
to be watching . the situation 
"hour by hour." 
Meanwhile, Warsaw Televi­
sion showed 25 minutes offilm of 
the Warsaw Pact maneuvers, the 
longest segment aired since the 
"Soyuz 81" exercises began in 
Poland and surrounding East 
Blue states last week. The 
footage, plus the Kremlin's as­
sessment of the atmosphere in 
Poland; were taken as new war­
nings that Soviet-led forces might 
intervene to crush labor unrest. 

Music dept. presents recital 
The University of Notre Dame Department of Music will present cellist Karen Buranskas and pianist Wiftiam Cerny in a faculty recital, Wednesday, April 1, at 8:15 p.m. in the Memorial Library Auditorium. 
Wednesday's program will feature the Sonata in E major for cello and piano by Giuseppe Valentini, Ben­jamin Britten's Suite for Solo Cello, op. 72, and Sonata in D major, op. 78, by johannes Brahms. The program ~ill close with the Requierbos by Gaspa Cassado. 
The recital is open to the public without charge. 

Sign-up for 

I98.2 Sophomore Literary Chairman S Executiue Committee 
Apply at Student Union 2nd floor LaFortune 

DEADLINE: April 1 
Open to students of all majors 

at the 
NAZ~
....z-.. 




ftiday, match 27 
Chtls ffiotgan 9 .... 10:30 Next 10:30 -1 

satutday, match 28 
matk Ulliman 9 -11:00 michael Radigan 11 ­


Notre Dame Credit Union 
dedicates new building 
By KATIE McDONNELL able to install new safety deposit News Staff boxes and create drive-in banking hours. 
The Notre Dame Credit Union of­ficially opened last week its new Notre Dame's credit union headquarters located on Douglas originally opened in 1941. It serves Road, across from U\'e power plant. not only the banking interests ofstu­
The administration allotted for dents, faculty, and employees of 
the new facility, which was designed Notre Dame and St. Mary's, but also and built by Panzica Construction the public associated with the nine Inc., in order to comply with the Holy Cross parishes throughout 
increasing size of the union. The South Bend, St. Joe's Hospital in Mis­new building includes imporved hawaka, and St. Joe's Medical Center facilities for the handling of share in South Bend. drafts, an increase in walking space Banking hours for the new credit for the union's customers, and more union are: 8:30am-5:30pm daily, 
office space. drive-in 8:30am-5:30pm; and Wed­The credit union has also been ntsday 8:30am-6 p.m. 
LIVE ENTERTAINMENT . FRIDAY & SATURDAY 9:30pm to 1 :30om 

PETER &DAVID DUNCAN 
open Monday thru Saturday 11 :OOam to 3:00am 
cocktail hour 2pm -9pm 
$.60 domestic beer all cocktails V2 price 
WELCOME BACK 4-7 TIC'S IRISH PU 

4609 Grape Road, Mishawaka (J.M.S. Plaza') between Edison & Douglas_ 


The Observer 

Almost appearing to land on Chicago's Rosemount Horizon, this jet is 011 Its final approach into the world's busiest airport-O'IIare lnterntimwl. (photo byjohn Macor) 

Cheerleading tryouts slated for April 6 
By DAVID SARPHIE 
StuffReporter 
The wn·k of April 6 will prove 
husy for the 4'\ students from Notre 
Dame and Saint Mary's who are 
compt·ting for positions on the 
I'.IH I-H.2 Notn· Damt· Checrlcading 
Squad. According to the director of 
Student Activitks, Dr. James 
McDonndl, a candidate must 
survive two nights of clinics, two 
auditions, and a personal interview 
that week to make the squad 
As of yesterday, McDonnell had 
rt·t·dvcd applications from .30 
women ( tt·n of whom an· from Saint 
Mary's) and 14 men. Only five stu­
dents from eat·h group will make the 
final squad. 
Md>onncll indkatcd that he does not expect alltht· applicants to show for the tryouts. "Last year we had 60 girls show up for the first meeting," he said. "llowever, only 34 of those were prest·nt for the first night of tryouts." 
"Tht· girls seemed real eager at 
first," he cxplained."But when they 
saw the requirt·mt•nts and the com­
petition, tht·y just decided they 
wnen't good enough." 
Thost· d10sen from next week's tryouts will join co-captains Shelly Ohen11illcr and Clark Gibson on the squad for the coming year. Ohermil­ln, a junior Business major from Crt:stline,Ohio, and Gibson, a sopho­more Arts and Lt·tters major from Manhattan Ikach, California, were elected <.·o-captains hy the current squad. 
Obermiller was especially excited about the influx of new talent. "We have some really talented girls this year," she remarked. "Although we could prohahly usc a few more guys, the t·ompetition should he real tough this year." 
Oht·rmiller and Gibson have hecn conducting inti1rmal practices nightly at the Rockne Memorial. The first clinic will takt· plac.:c on Mon­day, April 6 at 7:00 p.m. in the ACC pit. The first cut for the girls will oc­cur the following evening at 6:00 p.m., and again this will be in the pit. This session is open to the public. 
Dr. McDonnell will conduct per­sonal interviews on the following evening. There will be a second clinic on Thursday night, and the final cuts for both men and women will occur the following evening at 6:00p.m. in the pit. Again, the public is invited to this tryout. 
The Office of Studt:nt Activities will conduc.:t tryouts for Notre Dame's Leprechaun the same week. In addition to tht• height require­ment for ,the mascot ( '\'7" ), each candidate for this role must perform a shoulder stand, an Irish jig, and a short routine. Each must also give a short speech on the role of the Lt·prcchaun in enhancing school spirit. As of yesterday, only two men had expressed interest in the joh. 
Trio to perform at Snite 
The Elizahcthan Trio an en-


Friday, March 27, 1981 -page 5 
Over Bush appointment 
j







Haig deniesdisunity 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Alexan­
"the ohituary is wrong" as to his 
tenure as secretary of state, and he 
and President Reagan remain ofone 
mind on foreign policy despite their 
dispute over George Bush's crisis 
management role. 
The Bush appointment, an­nounced hy the president late Tues­day over Haig's ohjection amounted to "a subject of form," the secretary 
said. "The problem is to get on with the subject ofsuhstance." 
A night earlier, 1-Iaig's aides who asked not to he identified ­portrayed him as "very upset and sulking" and said they were unsure whether the strong-willed secretary would stay on the job despite Reagan's affirmation of faith in him Wednesday. One noted that Haig had "pounded the table" in anger over the Bush appointment. 
Haig denied that he had threatened Reagan with resignation, hut sidestepped questions from reporters as to his future. Instead, he joked that • "somehody told me I 

looked 'Bushed' this morning, hut 
I'm not sure what he meant," when 
he was asked about the possibility of 
stepping down. 
And Haig told the Senate Ap­propriations suhcommittee on foreign operation that now that Reagan has made his decision, "the time has come to get on with the conduct offoreign policy." 
Haig said the Bush appointment "may impact on foreign policy" hut did not explain whether he thought that good or had. 
"I had lengthy discussions with the president and we arc of one mind," Haig said. "Foreign policy is firstand foremost a question of sub­stance. 
"Now from time to time questions of form have an impact on that," he said, ring to Reagan's choice ofBush. "The subject of form has bem decided. The prohlcm is to get on with the subject of substance and that is what I intend to do. 
Haig told the Senate panel that "I'm anxious to get on with the con­duct of American foreign policy un­
'Tax expert'faces 
five yearsin prison 
INDIANAPOLIS (AP) The 
author of a hook touted as a 
"taxpayer's survival manual" has 
been arrested for filing 12 phony tax 
returns claiming more than $35,000 
in refunds. 
David Wayne Oldham, a self­
styled tax expert who says he wrote 
a book titled "The American Tax­
payer's Guide to Survival," faces a 
possible live-year prison term and 
15,000 in fines if convicted. 
Oldham, a 34 year-old In­
dianapolis native, was arrested by In­
ternal Revenue Service agents on 
Monday. He was being held in 
Marion County jail in lieu of 
$25,000 bond. 
Agents say Oldham set up an elaborate scheme which included the rental of two Indianapolis apart­ments under assumed named and the preparation and filing of tax 
returns with faked W-2 forms. He used the names ofrecently deceased tax preparers in signing the returns, investigators said. 
The refunds sought ranged from $860 to S5,772. Special Agent A. Charles Von­

scmhle of three women ~omblning • >dersc~mitt, who works o~ the IRS · drama and music, will appear at questionable refund proJect, told Snite Museum's Annenberg U.S. Magistrate John Paul Godich Auditorium tomorrow at 8 p.m. that the agency's computers became 
The California-based ensemble, il-suspicious of the 12 forms because luminating history in vignettes high-they had the same return address lighted by musical illustrations, has and appeared to have been prepared been commissioned to prepare per-by the same person. formances for major historical art One refund check for S5,772 was shows throughout the country. sent to one of the apartments ai-
The unique combination of legedly rented by Oldham, accord­dramatic narrator, harpsichordist, ing to Assistant U.S. Attorney Paula and soprano soloist acts through La Possa. Government agents music, poetry, and song to bring the believe he received the check. wit and wisdom of the English Under questioning hy Godich, Renaissance to contemporary Oldham said he was a self-employed audiences. mail order businessman and was also 
Baggage Truck Concessions 
Contract is mandatory. for any group or individual wishing to run a baggage truck this May &lor August 
Pick ~ up Applications March 30th Student Union Office 2nd floor LaFortune 
Applications Due: April, 8th 
"the accountant for several firms." He said he won a host of medals, including the Distinguished Flying Cross, as an Army helicopter pilot in Vietnam. 
• • White
• 
continuedfrom page 1 
administraion. 
White differcntiatt·d between tbc government's and the military's ap­proaches towards human rights hy saying "people are too quick to con­denm the entire government for the sins of the military." 
White fielded approxiamately half a dozen questions hcforc conclud­ing his presentation. 
der the arrangement diSt·ussed yesterday hy the president." 
Reagan issued a statement after meeting with Haig Wednesday that the secretary is his "primary adviser on foreign affairs." 
Haig said does not anticipate that developments in El Salvador would he handled hy Bush's crisis manage­ment staff. 
He said, moreover, he cxpt•cts he would be asked for rccommt·nda­tlons during any situation managed by Bush. 
On other issues, llaig tt·stified: some of the "nervousness" among hlack African nations ahou,t what the Reagan administration's p<Jlicy toward South Africa "will disappear" when that polir:y is anounced short­ly. 
Suggesting tht.· tone of the new policy, Haig said the administration has already endorsed Namibia's in­dependence from Somh African in­fluence. 
Military action should never by excluded from options to hall Cuban arms supplit's to guerrillas in El Salvador, but said he would give no "saber-rattling answer." 
AIR FORCE ENGINEERS AND SCIENTISTS ARE PROILEM·SOLVERS 
Pk.Js. they erjoy a worldwide 
reputation for excellence. 
If yoo have vision. creativity. 
and a sdentWic or engineering 
degree. apply your talents 
with a modern service that's 
geared for the future. Com­
pletion of the Air Force's three­
month Officer Training School 
earns you an officer's com­
mission and starts you on the 
road to a future-oriented 
career. The Air Force also of­
fers you an excellent salary, 
medical and dental care. 30 
days of paid vacation a year. 
a 520.000 life Insurance 
policy for about $4 a month. 
and many other benefits. 
Find out today what the Air 
Force has to oHer bv contact­
ing M Sgt, Stanley 
219-233-Steward 
4'14'1 ) collect 
;=:­





NEW CHAUTAUQUA COFFEEHOUSE 
in the Ballroom of Lafortune 
This weekend: Blues Great Eddie Shaw with special guest star Ellen fficllwaine 

famous female vocalist Friday and Saturday 2 shows 
9:30 and midnight admission Jl.OO at the door 
E.J. Rib House 

Experienced, dependible, barbeque specialists 

Open Aprillst 
8:00pm 
1338 Lincolnway West Deliveries: 24 hour service 7 days a week 
Don't walk-talk... 
:J 


We are as near to you as your phone 
289-7021 289-7022 . 
____________________________________J 
..
. 

Friday, . March 27, 1981 -page 6










Editorials 

P.OBoxQ 
More on Reagan 
Dear Editor: 
I am shocked and dismayed that the University is honoring a president who is responsible for American support of a political faction in El Salvador that has been responsible for the suffering and death of the country's poor. It makes no sense to me to en­courage people to work for social justice in one breath '\nd symboli t­cally condone the actions of a president who systematically is 
withdr.awingfl.!nds from effective 
programs that offer help to the un­
derprivileged and boosting funds 
available for the manufacture of 
implements of war. 
I encourage members of the faculty and student body that are in sympathy with this point of view to unite and make their presence known. 
Elizabeth Madden South Bend Dear Editor: 

Eleven years ago, Ronald Reagan was calling for a blood­bath on our nation's college campuses, and now he is scheduled to present the com­mencement address here at Notre Dame. The issue is not whether the students of the late Sixties and early Seventies were right or wrong, but whether ReaEan' s at­titude is in line with the supposed Christian ideals of the University. I think not. 
The following appeared in a recent column by Andy Rooney: "Colleges have been in the busi­ness for years of giving awards to people they think can do them the most good. If you look at the ros­ter of people to whom any univer­
sity is giving its honorary degrees, you'll notice that more of them are rich than smart." 
If Ronald Reagan had lost last fall's election would he have been invited to our graduation ex­ercises? The 1981 commence­ment is being turned into a circus. It will be a media event staged for the personal benefit of Fr. Hes­burgh and Ronald Reagan and for the financial benefit of Notre Dame, at the expense of the Notre Dame faculty and students (especially the seniors). Giving honorary degrees to Pat 0' Brien and Ronald Reagan makes a mockery of the degrees that we 
work hard for. 

Kevin 0' Shea Morrissey Hall 
The Observer welcomes letters from its readers. These should be addressed to the Editorials Editor, P.O. Box Q on campus. Letters should be typed, double­spaced, and brieffor best chance of publication. We reserve the right to edit. 
Doonesbury 

Garry Trudeau 


S&CHTMY 70 /MPAlJT7JICHAfi ldiATIS Jl/NTA MILJTARILY, 711/f CH!tFU.S. SO AS 70 IIEAIU5­08JECTIV& IN !WIJ-MINIJS 71£ 



Hesburgh 
Beginning next semester Uni­versity President Fr. Theodore Hesburgh will take up residence, along with four junior accounting majors, in a rented house on East St. Louis St. 
In a move co-ordinated with Chicago mayor Jane Byrne, Hes­burgh will reside in the eye of the 

i . ~ 
to study 
off-campus crime storm in order to "dramatize the University's sym­pathy for the plight of the off­campus residenL" Hesburgh last lived among under-graduates as a Walsh assistant rector in 1952. 
"The move off-campus is a long time in coming," said the veteran priest, corporate director and Uni­
•

crttne problem up-close 
versity official. "I'm sure it will be awkward at first, but I'm willing to go out of my way to see that things run smoothly." Among the steps Hesburgh plans to take is assuming a part-time job as a bartender at the local Corby's tavern. 
"I think the Corby's post, while not as prestigious as some of my other achievements, will ease my transition into the o-c community and should help encourage con­fidence among the students." 
Asecond benefit the administra­tion expects to reap as a result of the Hesburgh move is the opening up ofanother spot to ease the cur­rent on-campus housing shortage. 
"I like to think that I'm doing my part to help that situation, as well," he said. 
Though it is possible that the Corby's move will inspire con­fidence among his o-c peers, what other problems can a sixty-four year old priest expect to encoun­ter in the blur of all-nighters and dirty dishes that is off-campus living at Notre Dame/Saint Mary's? 
"Obviously there are bound to be problems, but I do see myself as taking an active role in the o-c community. Besides tending bar, I also intend to apply for the post of off-campus religious commis­ssioner. Given my background I think I am well-qualified." 
Bernie Schlitz, a junior from Catchabuzz, New York, and one of Hesburgh's new housemates, is en­thusiastic about his new fellow resident. 
"Ted gets along with the rest of 
the guys just great. I myself am par­
ticularly enthused about the move since I spent last semester on probation. Not only has Ted promised to help me with my theology papers next semester, he also says he has some pull with the administration, and that can't hurt," Schlitz added. 
Although nationwide reaction has been ambivalent at best, an en­thusiastic Dean of Students James 
E. Roemer had praise for Hes­burgh's intentions. 
"It's a good idea that will expose Ted to the pathetic dilemma which the off-campus student contends with each day." Roemer hastened to add that, despite the symbolic value of Hesburgh's gesture, he "will still be subject to all univer­sity rules." 
And that's just fine with another 
Hesburgh bunk-mate Jimmy "Bud" 
Weiser, a junior from Hops 'n Bar­
ley, Ohio. "I believe it's about time 
that Ted was exposed to the kind ofliving conditions we have to live with off-campus. I'm not only talking about the daily threat of crime and violence, I mean the lack of suitable social space in general. With this in mind, the Corby's post is especially meaning­ful to me." 
According to a highly-placed source within the Corby's hierarchy, Hesburgh will watch the door from 6-8 on Tuesday and Thursday nights and tend bar from 8-close on Mondays and W ednes­days. "This will not only be good for business, but it· should cut down on hassles from the police since we're just about positive that we've finally hired somebody who won't serve underage drinkers," the source said. Add to this the fact' that ND security plans to surround the bar whenever Hesburgh is inside, and Corby's will be one of the most secure bars in the five­points area. 

Lionel A. Nowork, Hesburgh's new next door neighbor, is also excited about the new kid on the block. 
"Although we're not Catholic, we think the move is just great. As long as he keeps the beer bottles off the lawn and takes in the trash cans after the garbage truck leaves it's okay by us," Nowork said. 
"I don't know if his living here will help diminish the crime problem, but it can't hurt," said Nowork, the former owner of a Magnavox color television and a 100 watt Pioneer stereo receiver. 
Perhaps the biS&est snag in the controversial administration proposal has been protests from the media alleging that Hesburgh does not sincerely care about off­campus living conditions, but is merely seeking the cheap publicity which would inevitably accom­pany such an unusual move. 
"I think that's ridiculous," said Hesburgh. "I will be resigning in the near future and have nothing to gain from this move." 
"My only concern is the safety of the students," he added. 
Hesburgh has set Tuesday, August 22nd as moving date. Any transfer or off-campus student who wishes to be considered in the lot­tery for Hesburgh's old room in Corby Hall (no relation to the aforementioned bar) should apply at the lobby ofthat building. 

·-:~... ~~.... _J.:..• ~l.'-.. ::!!":!!::::··~!:!-:!"'"::!'t:.=:--~·~·!!!•!:!!·'!!!-~--~~-·~.!':1
-;"~~~:&17"~..:.-:. '.l'·~-~~· .. _!"_~~--~~-~-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~!!:~~~~~.!.!!..!...!!!1_~_1!1;!_~!!!!!!~~~!!!!!!~!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!~~~~ 
Editorial Board and Department Managers 
Edltor-in-Cblef........................................John McGrath SMCExecutive Editor .....................Mary Agnes Carey SMC News Editor ................................Kathy Domanico

=--=~~~=c~====•=c_Ihe=-O~er==
Bo;'<: Q..l\'otre Dame, iN 4C,55(' Managing Editor......................................Tom]ackman 
Photo Editor..................................................John Macor
The Obst-.·rz,er .s an indcpendt·nt newspaper pubh~hcd by rhe !,rudent'> ')! the Executive News Editor ..............................Lynne Daley Univer~mv ofNutre Dame d1; Lac and Saim fl.tary's Colle!):e. It does not necessanl:. News Editor .............................................Tim Vercellotti 
Business Manager ....., .............................. Rich Coppola
reflect rh~ Dolicie::. of the administration of enher mstirunon. The news is reponed 
News Edltor.................................................John Higgin·s Controller........................................................)oe Mulllur 
:1s acLura<ely and as ob)ecrivel~· as possible. Edirnri~ls represent rhe opinmn of J. 
Senior Copy Editor ........................Mary Fran Callahan Advertising Manager ......................................Mark Ellis _ majom·~ of rhe Ednorial Board. Commentane~. OpiniOns, and lerrers are the vtew~ Production Manager ...................Ryan Ver Berkmoes
Sports Edltor................................. : ............ Beth Hulfman­
of d.eir. author;.<;. Column space is available ro all members of the communny. and Circulation Manager ........................Tom MacLennan
Features Editor..........................................Rick Hermida
the tree expression of varying opmions on campus, through letters, 1s encouraged. 

-----~j 
I I 

Features I Confess... 
W 
hen you.lc:arnc:d to hc:.ar co.nkssions as a priest In the tradition I was traancd an, you lc:arncd almost as a first princ:lple ofyour ministry: do not make it a practict· to refuse absolution to penitents. We were taught by good and reasonable men: If after fifty years as a confessor, you can count the number oftimes you have refused absolution on the fingers ofone hand, then the count Is too high. Ifa sinner is not disposed to at lc:ao;t try to give up his occasions ofsin, it is your respon­sibility to bring him to the point ofbeing disposed. If a sinner walks in from the street to talk with a priest in tht confessional, he has some reason for coming: some per· c:eivcd need ofgrace, some deep-felt guilt. His being there is a cry for help, and it is your job to make sure he is helped. 

Hearing confessions ofpeoples' shabbiness can be a humdrum affair. Some confessions arc pretty routine; with some penitents, you can guess what they're going to say before they open their mouths. The saddest con· fessions involve human weaknesses that make you want to hug the penitent and say: "That's all right; I'm sure God understands;" as for examplt:, an ageing widow who is intimately involved with an ancient widower whom she can't marry, because ifshe married him, she: would have: to give: up some: pension that she needs to live: on. 
Hearing confessions would probably he quite simple If human being.-; were: only moderately sinful. One can imagine: what it would be like to hear the final confes· sion ofStephenJudy. I have no idea what Stephen Judy would tell a priest; hut, if asked, should the priest coun· sel him against consenting to his own execution? And if murdc:rs were confessed, what wisdom would a priest need to disn:rn the difference between abhorrent evil, dellbt·rately consented to, and the gravc:ly serious and destructive misadventruc:s resulting from emotional and psychological discao;c, not subject to rational con· trol? 
Evil isn't pretty, and it isn't pleao;ant, and sometimes it goes beyond anything excusable as mere human weak­nt·ss. "Why am I listening to this?" I think to myselfwith anger. Why am I hearing these sad tales ofbetrayed decc:ncles that document the fallenness ofthe world? The: answer comes clear and simple, as though one had been invited again to the service ofordination: you lis­ten, because there is a mercy in God, and you represent that mt·rcy. What God's mercy docs, it docs through you. 
So I listen, and I try to help; and within the: limits of Christian tradition, I try to separate the sinner from his 
Blues artists to perform at Chautauqua 
C
onsistant with the Chicago Blues Tradition, Eddie Shaw and the WolfGang brings their blues magic to Chautauqua, located on the second floor of LaFortune in the Ballroom. Schooled under the late great Bowlin Wolf, Shaw uses his unique style ofsax and harmonica playing to compliment his wailing vocals. Influenced also by tht· contemporary blues styles ofMuddyWatcrs, Willit: Dixon, Mighty Joe Young and Hound Dog Taylor; Eddie Shaw's music expresses the emotions and ex· pt·ricnccs associated with the plight of the black man trying to make it in tht· big city. Eddit: Shaw seems to touch a place Inside of himself that draws everyone around him into a magit'al state where the moment stands still. 
And along with Eddie Shaw, special guest Ellen Me:II· walnc: will dazzlt: Chautauqua with her stunningand in· vcntivc slide guitar and her disciplined vocals. Often hilled only asJiml Hendrix's girlfriend, Ellen Mdlwainc has emt·rgcd on her own to shed that old spotlight. On stage:, she is both playful and salty and and occasionally verging on raunchy! llcr multi octave, colorfully splen· did voice has broughther appearances in concert with such grt·ats as Henrix,Jcff Beck, Bruce Springsteen, Bil· lyJoel and the Double Brothers. Chautauqua awaits her unbridkd and riveting power this weekend, for what should prove to be and oustanding show. 
Both Ms. Mcllwainc: and Eddie Shaw will be at Chautauquaon Friday, March 27 an Saturday, March 28· TillS WEEKEND! There will be two shows, one at 9:30 and another at midnight Admission is just one dollar at the: door. 
sin. It is not simple, or easy, but I must bring a highly confused and badly wounded soul -sometimes a soul about to damn itselfwith loveless acts and malevolent allegences-to a spiritual point ofview where I can declare to him that the pardon and peace ofChrist 
belong to him. Dentists work sometimes with the thin· 
nest shell oftooth; sometimes, with a priest, souls also 
seem worn down to their thinnest shell. A dentist, after 
his labors, judges whether a tooth is now serviceable; a 
priest judges whether.a soul has the special aliveness 
which is the breath ofGod, or whetherapparently dead 
pulses are capable of beating with the rhythms oflife. 
Both the priest and the dentist use all their skills, before 
making a final decision about whether what has been 
done is enough. I don't know whom the dentist relies on, but the priest relies upon God. The priest should feel, according to my best teachers, that ifhe must send away the penitent without giving absolution, the failure should be counted to the shame of the priest. 
Recently, writing for theNotre Dame magazine, I spoke ofgiving absolution to a young man living in a situation which I judged to be objectively sinful, but subjectively good, it would seem, to the young man; highly preferable to the sinful alliances that the young man had, up to that time, been involved in, with people he picked up from the street. My absolution involved no approval ofa lifestyle contrary to traditional morality; I remained silent about the person he was living with. I did not want to take the ground ofwhat seemed like decency to him, away from him, because it was the safest ground he had been on for a longtime. Confessors sometimes have to avail themselves ofthe distinctions between objective and subjective morality. They have to settle for what seems like good faith when telling penitents the truth would put them in bad faith, and bad faith would expose them to worse harm. 
To Catholics who have written to say that I betrayed Catholic tradition, I answer: I am a very traditional priest. I don't need even a single finger to count the times I have refused absolution in the twenty-seven years I have been ordained. Offering absolution, for me, is the tradition. I love the Church, its laws and its liturgy. But maybe I've missed something when I ignore the darker side ofa stable friendship, when that friendship keeps a young man from being a hustler on the New York sidewalks. That friendship, sad and shabby though it may be, is all he's got to keep him from going to hell. We are engaged In a warfare with the prince ofdark· ness; he has not learned his tactics from a textbook. A priest, learningthe lessons ofwarfare, must go one step beyond anything the textbooks tell him; otherwise, he could never hear confessions. 
As a confesor, one becomes so responsible. 
The Church, in ordaining priests, must trust them to bt· faithful to the tradition that gives them an identity. The priest, in representing Christ to penitents, must trust the Church to support him in his judgements of mercy. Otherwise, the Church does not have a voice, and the priest does not have a home he can call his Father's house, to which he can welcome sinners for whom he has become responsible. 



The Observer 1 

If §()~ 





--------~...-----.:...,_~1;-......... 1'. 
~·. 
/ 

=The~Obser:ver===== 

Molarity 
i·w=LL I ~IT ANP IT GtL.OWS : AND lr HAK'!S ~Mf NO/~ I~ 1 WATCH ANb :r HE'AR At-JD /i GIV£5 ME. J"OY~. ,. 
50 .I: SPE.NP At.L MY HOU~~ ~ ~rrH MY' TV Pol ~E ..f 
..,AtJt>ItL. C~G! "TUE 


.-' 


Campus 
FRIDAY, MARCH 27 
•12: 
I 5 p.m. -lenten mass, fr. griffin. Iafortune rathskellar, all welcome. 

•2 
p.m. -midwest art history society conference, renaissance art, photography, public monumental sculpture, snite museum of art. 

• 
3:30 p.m. -philosophy dept. lecture. "do Wt' see through a microscope7" ian hacking, stan­ford u.. mem. library lounge. 

•4-10 
p.m. -michiana home and garden show, ace, continues sat. and sun. 

• 
'i: I 5 p.m. -mass and supper, bulla shed. 

•7,9:30,1.2 
p.m. -film, "blues brothers," engr. aud, spons: stu­dent union. 

• 
7,9, II· p.m. -film, "seven brides f<Jr seven brothers", car­roll hall smc. 

•8 
p.m. -.festival of new music, warren benson (guest com­poser), little theater smc. 

•8 
p.m. -midwest art history society conf., "vermeer's art of -painting and the mapping im­pulse in dutch art," prof. svetlana alpers, u. calif. berkeley. annen­berg aud. 

•8 
p.m. -concert, kansas, ace, S9 and $8. 


SATURDAY,MARCH28 
•outdoor track, nd invitational. call 6135 for times. 
•9 
a.m. -midwest art history society conf., morning papers: baroque art 2. 19th century art I, american art, snite museum of art. 

•Noon-10 
p.m. michiana home and garden show, ace. 

•2:30 
p.m. -graduate recital, william carpenter, piano, mem. library aud. 

• 
3 p.m. -midwest art history society conf., afternoon papers: ancient art, I~ cent. art .2, general session, snite museum of art. 

•5:1 
'i p.m. -spiritual rock con­cert, "barnabas", mem. lib. aud., ·spons: nd spiritual rock, till II p.m. 

•7,9:30, 
12 p.m. -film. "blues brothers", engr. aud. 

•7,9,1 
I p.m. -film, "seven brides for seven brothers", car­roll hall smc. 

•8 
p.m. -student concert,~stu­dent performers and compositions, little theatre smc, spons: dept of music. 

•8 
p.m. -festival of new music, warren benson. little theater smc. 

•8 
p.m. -annual international student f<..-stival. free admission o'laughlin aud. 

•H: 
I 'i p.m. -concert, elizabet­han trio, music and drama, an­nenberg aud. spons: university artist series. 

SUNDAY, .\lARCH 29 

•<J:50 
a.m. --prad•<, bat, ~me pre-law, m; Jekva hal;_ 

• 
;\/oon-6 p. 1~1. -michiana home ami gardr n 'how. ace. 

•6:.~0 
p 1{1 -t•:m, "city vf gam­bling", n1c IT'. lib. aud., spons: 


chine~c· a~:Mc. 
•7: I'i 11 .• 11. -lenten sermon seril·'· · ju'tice" dr. elizabeth chrbtman. nd. our lady chapel, saL red hl·:1rt church. ·~ ;•.m. -senior rt'cital, ann 
armstrong (piano), little theatt'r, smc. 
•H:I 'i p.m. -concert, notre dame chorale and glee club. sacred heart church. 

Michael Molinelli 




The Daily Crossword 

'"'· 

29 "East of-" 
31 Cross­shaped opening 
35 Hejaz language 
37 -·tasse 
39 Sheep 
40 Sites for boats 
42 Area of certain rocks 
44 Natives of: suff. 
45 Goad 
47 Numb 
48 Vive -! 
50 Nobel prize physicist 52-Tyler Moore 
Yesterday's Puzzle Solved: 


53 Halluclno· 11 Japenese gen aboriginal 55 Diplomat's 12 Fall strong suit 13 Poetic word 
57 Subject 21 Polar sight of Bing's 22 Deck dream 25 Dromedary's 
64 Ukraine's relative 
capital 26 Scrub 65 Reared 27 Less 66 Stand frequent 67 Inscription 28 Sash 
on a cross 30 Clear 
ACROSS 1 Related to bees 6 Trimming 
braid 10 Cod 14 Ballroom 
dance 15 Wild ox 16 Rubthe 
wrong way 17 Take up 13 Czar 19 -about 20 Small 
upset 23 Played a winner 
24 Late enter­tainer Erwin 
25 Food fish 

68 Flying 
prefix 69 Abridge 70 Butte's 
relative 71 Musical hiatus 72 Weapon of yore 
DOWN 1 Sweetsop 2 Breathe 
heavily 3 Division .word 4 Ripening 
agent 5 "-Rae" 6 Earned 7 Rushed in 8 Castle 
feature 9 Glass squares 10 Spring flower 
32 "You can-
horse to..." 33 Proprietor 34 Wee 36 Give no 
quarter 38 Familyof Florence 41 Big-, 
Cal. 43 Lamb's dad 46 TV's Dan 
and family 49 De Havil­
land 51 Brigitte 54 Prevent 
•·· 56 Despots 57 Port, e.g. 58 Towel words 59 Amerind 60 Golf hazard 61 Hitter of 
359 homers 62 Cruising 63 Sibyl 64 Ms Novak 




PINOCCHIO'S PIZZA PARlOR 
8-1 Opm $1.50 pitchers of beer 
and 
emmons 
$.30 mugs ... every night of the week 


~--~--------------------1 
I $.50 OFF SMALL PIZZA I
• 

~---------------------~ 
: $.75 OFF MEDIUM PIZZA I 
t---------------------~
I $1.00 OFF LARGE PIZZAI 
•----------------------~ 
------....... -·--............ 


The Observer Friday, March 27, 1981 -page 9 

This is it! 

• • • Drills 
•







Only four teams rematn
nmtinu£•tlfrompup,e 12 Saturday format, with tentitive says new offensivt· coon.linator Tom suimmages scheduled on two Satur­l.khtenht·rg, "and to get it to wher~ days, April I I and 2S, before the PHILADELPHIA ( AP) -From could bring the same team I had in Coach Dale Brown kept Macklin 
we can exenue it dlkiently. It in­S I st annual intra-squad contest in here on, there's no home-court ad­1976, it would be an advantage." out of practice earlier this wt·ek ·to volvt·s some adjustment hy May. 
vantage. Just renewal of a bitter At­The Big Ten champs, who had the rest his star and give a finger injury a everybody, hut the the team's at· "We want to do t•verything we 
lantic Coast Conference rivalry and homecourt advantage in the Mideast chance to heal. 
titudt· is gn·at -tht· kids arc very can this spring to prepare ourselves a confrontation of high-powered of­Regionals at Bloomington last Indiana and UiU are meeting forcoat·hahlc." for next fall," stresses Faust. 
fense against unyielding defense weekend, will be making their third the first time since theN< :AA tourna­The quartt·rhack position will "Anyone who looks at our schedule await in the semifinals of the NCAA · appearance in the Final Four in the ment in 19S<; · a gamec· Indiana won,on<.T again ht· the focus of attention can sec we're going to have to be basketball tournament Saturday. last eight years. All the tt•ams have 
73-62.

this spring, with incumbent Blair very well prepared."· 
North Carolina vs. Virginia and In­been coached by Knight. 
Kid fighting off challcngt·s from IRISH ITEMS -Former Irish diana vs. L'iU are the matchups as the "There's no better coach in the On the other hand. the Virginia­
dassmatt· Scott Grooms. and seniors receiving great)at·k Snow returns as Final Four fight it out for college bas­regular season or the tournament North Carolina game, the nightcapTim Koegel and Grt·g Knafclc, both a member of Faust's coaching staff ketball's top prize at the Spectrum. than Bobby Knight," said Bobby of Saturday's douhlcheadt·r will he of whom missed last season with in­this spring...the 1964 graduate was Both semifinals are rated toss-ups. Wilkerson, a member of ·the 1976 the third meeting of tt·ams this jurit-s. an All-American on Ara Parseghian's The championship game is set for championship team. "1t comes season.
"We'vt· got several talented quar­first national championship squad, 
Monday night. down to coaching in the important The Cavaliers, No. S with a 2H-;'.
terbacks <.'oming hat·k. hut I haven't and played for the Los Angeles Rams Indiana won the NCAA crown in games, and Knight is the best. That's record, won both meetings as theyseen films ofany of them." says Lich­before retiring in the mid-70's... he 1976, the last time the champion­why Indiana will win." 
took the ACC regular season <:rown.
tt·nht·rg. who also st·rves as quarter­will work out with the quarterbacks ship was decided at the Philadelphia The defense will he put to the test Virginia was up~ct in tht· tourna­hack and rc:tTiver t·oadl. "I have no and rt·ceivers... In addition to Hun­arena, but Coach Bobby Knight said against LSU, the nation's fourth­ment semifinals hy Maf}•land, whichpern·ivt·d notions about any of ter, other Irish ballplayers sitting out Thursday that will he no help to his ranked team and the highest-scoring in turn lost to Carolina in the cham­them. They'rt· all anxious to prove spring drills due to injury indude ninth-ranked Hoosiers. squad among the Final Four with an pionship game.
themsdves and I want to give tht·m guards Rob Gagnon and Todd Bruni, "None of these kids have ever H0.2 point average. 
as much opportunity as I can." defensive linemen Tony Belden and played there," Knight said as he put The Tigers, 31·3 and Southeastern As in any gamt· they playt·d this The. lri~h will practice on a Kevin Griffith, flanker Dan Stone and his 24-9 team through its final Conference regular-season cham­season, a great deal of Virginia's
Moml!ty~Wt=dm:-sday-Friday-running back Bernie Addl. 
practice at Bloomington, Ind. "If I pions, will rely on forward Rudy hope for success rests with Ralph Macklin to key the offense. Sampson, the 7-4 sophomore centl'f. 
contlnuetlfrom page I 2 
"I've thought about that a lot," he says. "There are timt·s in your life, no mattt·r what you do, that you ques­tion your vocation. God always make~ that present in your mind. But whenever I have any doubts, I can never answer the qut·stion of what else I would do if I didn't coach." 
Any t·oac.:h stepping into tht· Notre Damt· joh would have more than a flow qut·stions to answer and skep­tks to quiet, but since he's coming straight from high school, Faust ~eems to havt' more than his share. 
lie may havt· won over a few doubting Thomast•s with his 24­carat renuiting list, and he certainly has takt·n the student body by storm 
with his whirlwind tour of the t·ampus dorms, hut there are still more qut·stions that <twait answers, as Faust readily agret·s. 
"Thert· are going to have to he 
'somt· adjuMments, and I am going to have to ft·el my way," he admits. ''I'll ht· myself and hope pt·ople are going to accept me. I want to try to be sin­cert· and honest. 
"MoM of tht· kids havt· really al­ready adhered to it. They've ht·en Vt'f}' n·sponsive -there is a great attitude hert·. 
"Every kid l'w mt·t so far I h'\Y..e~. per~onal love for," says Faust. "Tht·rt· isn't a kid on the tt·am I wouldn't go to hat fi>r." 
Faust also at·knowledges that his fedinJ.:!> may not always be redpr­ocatt·d. 
"I've hn·n tough on them, and I'll he tough on them in the future," ht· promi~es. "They may not like me, hut I hopt· they respn·t me. If they likt· us ten yt·ars from now, and rt·alize that we love them as people, tht·n wt·'ve done what we've come here to do." 
A hig part of any personality con­flkts Faust may encounter may stem from hi~ approach. The skt·ptics haw repeatt·dly harpt·d on tht· fact that Faust will he dealing with IH­and 19-yt·ar-old men-d1il~ren, rather than imprt·s!tionahle, l.~·yt·ar­
old kids. 
They neglect to mention that Faust ha:. won widt· acdaim as a motivational speakt·r, appearing hdort· executives from IBM and Proctor&. <;amble. 
But not surprisingly, tht· inddt·nt that settled any fi:ar~ that may have kstt·rt·d in Faust's own psycht· was sports-rl'lated. 
"The thing that sold me was when I spokt· to the Cindnnati Rt·ds minor league camp," relate~ Faust. "Tht·rt· were I I 0 or I IS playt:rs, ranging in age from 17 to-~ I. They wert· from a variety of diftcn·nt intclli~o:ence and economic len·ls, unlikt· a group of 
cxt·curives, who have similiar goals and lifestyles. 
• • • Faust 

"That was the biggest challenge of 
all, as a football coach trying to talk 
to a group of baseball players, be­
cause I had had some questions in , my own mind before that. 
"Now l realize that people of any age arc the same as long as you treat them as a person and not as a num­ber." 
Faust also will have to bump heads with the monster which had a big hand in shortening the careers ofhis two immediate predecessors, Devine and Parseghian -pressure. He tries to explain how he copes with tht· frayed nerves and churning stomachs. 
"God blesses everybody with a different makeup. Some arc detail people, some have great insight, others have a sense for something. Others can think under pressure, and can't think very well when they're not under pressure. And in the makeup of talents God has given me, I hope that I would be able to handk things in pressure situa­tions." 
As Faust sits in his office, which seems so well to mirror his philosophy and personality, he is en­thusiastic, yet always under control. He exudes confidence, yet he realizes that he will he judged by what his teams do (IJl football fields across the nation. 
lkspite tht· enormous task that 
lies ahead, Faust doesn't consider 
the possibility that he won't enjoy 
success similiar to the type he 
became accustomed to at Moeller. 
"I haven't thought about failure 
because I'm a positive person," Faust 
says. "If I thought there was a pos­
sihility of failure, I wouldn't have 
takt·n the joh. That's not to say it 
won't happen, hut if I had that at­
tilude, it wouldn't have heen fair to 
the University to takt· the job." 
The office is bright and cheery, al­
most in stark contrast to ·that of his 
predecessor. The do01; between his 
office and the outer office is often 
open, also unlike the door that 
seemed to separate Dan Devine 
from the press and public that often 
ridiculed him and seldom ap­
preciated him. 
Inside, the office reflects Fausts 
priorities. There are pictures offami­
ly and religious gifts from friends 
adorning the walls. Other than a 
statue ofa Moeller High School foot­
ball player, painted and given to 
Faust as a Christmas gift by his youn­
gest son, and a SO-year-old painting 
of Knute Rockne and the Four 
Horsemen, there is no football · memorabilia adorning the walls. No 
game balls, no trophies, no plaques. 
"Awards are great, and everybody 
needs to be patted on the back, but 
you don't win things by yourself," 
says Faust. 
"This office is not Gerry Faust -it 
is Notre Dame football and what it 
stands for. I have trophies and 
awards, but they're at home and 
they'll stay there." 
To set the record straight, there 
will be at least one other change 
implemented by Faust next year ­
the Irish will return to their tradi­
tional blue jdseys, last worn in 
1977. 
"Those arc the real school 
colors," explains Faust. "Green and 
gold art· in keeping with the image of 
the Fighting Irish, but blue and gold 
are in the Alma Mater. You see the 
Dome when you drive along the In­
terstate, and blue is the color of the 
Blessed Virgin Mary -she's gotten 
me this far, so I'm goi~g to stay with 
her." 
And there doesn't seem to he 
much doubt that hard work, dedica­
tion to a firm set of principles and 
the Blessed Virgin will take Faust a 
lot farther. 

*PHOTOGRAPHERS* 
THE OBSERVER ts• organtztng next year's photo st~ff (JHUd. !JG3ifimt) VtPPLICA TIONS -name and phone -work and photo experience -some example of previous work -drop off at 3rd floor LaFortune b_y 3/30 ALL PRESENT PHOTGRAPHERS MUST REAPPLY An_y questions call John at 1715 or 3106 
Defensively, they hope center Greg The All-American was a key to botb 
Cook can deny the middle to lsiah victories over the Tar Heels, 2H· ". in Thomas, the Hoosiers' hard-driving which the Cavaliers rallkd from All-American guard. double-digit deficits. 

Sunday match 29th 
7:00 m Lafottune Little Theatte 




r---------------­
1 friday 3-8 
I

I COCKTAILS 2 for 1 
II PITCHERS $2.50 I

monday I
I 
I

I 
I

LONE STAR
I 
I

I 
NIGHT 
I

I 
I 

specials &prizes 1 introducing Lone Star Beer





:n.··----------------1I 
Applications for the 1981-82 
Student Government Cabinet Positions will be made available starting 

March 24 
at the 


Student
.. 


Government Offices 
on the second floor of LaFortune. 
Must be returned by March 31... 
The Observer Friday, March 27, 1981 -page 10 
HenryV. stays solid at 


first base 

By LOUIE SOMOGYI 
Sports Writer 
Teams in every sport experience peaks and valleys. Last week's 0-7-1 baseball swing through the South was a valley beyond Hades. 
For junior Henry Valenzuela, 
though, it was a time of cooking up 
some of his own hell against oppos­
ing pitchers--a sight that is sure to be 
familiar throughout the season. With 
his .384, six doubles, 10 RBI perfor­
mance on the road, the third-year 
starting first baseman has just begun 
what promises to be a season ofeye­
opening performances. 
"There is no doubt that Henry 

along with Mike jamieson is our best 
hitter," says manager Larry Gallo. 
"He's been basically a streak hitter in 
his career. I just hope he keeps this 
streak 'till about the end of the 
season. We're expecting a lot of big things from him, and right now his confidence is really up." 
Confidence may be the very reason why the batting average for Valenzuela will not be just another here today, gone tomorrow streak. 
"Baseball is a game of con­fidence," points out the Cuban-born Valenzuela. "I think a large part of my hitting better this season comes from what I learned over Christmas break at a Lou Pinella Camp at my high school in jesuit, Florida. 
"In the past I don't think I was as selective as I should have been on pitches and also I didn't go up to the plate sometimes with the con­fidence you need. If you think with the smallest ounce that you won't get a hit when you go up to the plate, you might as well not even go up. You're gone. 
"In the past, it was the little men• tal things that kept me from hitting 
as well as I could. But I worked on 
these techniques at camp and 
they've really helped." 

That lousy, rotten past of which Valenzuela speaks ofare his hideous .308 and .268 batting averages from his freshman and sophomore years, respectively. In actuality, measuring his hitting ability by his average is like measuring Rod Carew by how many home runs he hits. Deceiving is the word that Gallo uses. 
"I can't tell you how many times he nailed the ball last year and some­body ended up making a great stab," points out Gallo. "He always seems to make some good contact. He's an unbelievable pure hitter." 
The deception is still there, though, even with the .384 average. 
"Two of his best hits down South were outs," explams the manager. "There was one he really smacked against Delta State in which the pitcher reacted in self-defense but somehow managed to make the catch; another where the outfielder made a lunging shoe-top catch." 

The character of Henry Valen­zuela is far from deceiving, however. One can almost tell that he is someone who knows what he wants, and how to get it, by his lively no­nonsense attitude and tone ofvoice. 
A high school All-American baseball player from Florida who docs such wonderful things as drive in 92 runs in a single year and hit a two-out grand-slam home run in the final inning to win a district cham­pionship for his school, is about as likely to attend Notre Dame to play baseball as the Chicago Cubs are to win a pennant. 
"I knew that the baseball program wasn't as good here as the ones in Florida," admits Valenzuela, "but I knew that I could help out right away at Notre Dame and help turn the program around. 
"And I'll be honest with you. When you go to a Florida State or a Florida, or any other of those nationally-ranked teams down there,--you usually just end up sitting on the bench for at lca!lll<two yeal-s and what happens is that you not on­ly don't play, but you walk out with some so-so diploma from some so-so school. 
I still have some of the schools following me, but I realize there are other things in life for me than just baseball, and Notre Dame is Notre Dame when it comes to academics. I was offered a deal by Harvard too, but I just didn't fit in over there." 
This is not to say that a shot at the major leagues would be rebuked by the junior business major. 
"If I was ever given an option, I'd be foolish not to take a shot at the big leagues," s;Jys Valenzuela. "I mean, that's something any ballplayer has to get out of his system. But if it comes it comes, I can't waste my time thinking about that now." 
"Henry's an excellent college player." says Gallo, "He can hit with the best of them, and he's an excel­lent fielder at first. If he keeps on playing the way he is now, yes, he dcf-initely deserves a look from some scouts." 
Great hitting and fielding from Valenzuela is a famliar sight for Notre Dame baseball fans, but right now Henry is concerned most about creating an unfamiliar sight--namely last week's losing streak. 
"I've been playing baseball since I was seven years old, but I've never gone through anything like that," he says, recalling last week's trip. "In al­most every game we were ahead in the final inning but ended up losing. I sti'il'tnink.that we have a very good team and that we can still get an NCAA bid, but right now we just can't think about the record. The games for us now are all the more crucial." 
Crucial for the team, and crucial for his future goals. 
"Oh, sure it would be nice if I can break some stats, but more than any­thing I would like us to continue the winning tradition that we began last year. When I hang up my uniform for the last time for Notre Dame, I want to know that I made a contribution in building a winning program here in baseball." 
If the whole team keeps that at­titude, then maybe the 1981 Notre Dame baseball season can reach a more heavenly peak. 
Midwest 


Art History 
Today and tomorrow, the Snite Museum and Art Department will host the Midwest Art History Society meetings in the Snite Museum. 
"Vermeer's Art of Painting and the Mapping Impulse in Dutch Art," the featured lecture ufthe meetings, will be given tonight by Professor Sventlana Alpers at 8 p.m. in the An­nenberg Auditorium. 


-~­



~~()1"tS~ll~~~~~·e~~S~~~~r===========~~======IT=id=a=y,=M=ar~c~h=27=,=I9=B=I==p=ag=e=I~I

by The Oh.rerr•er and Thr Assuoatcd Pnrr 
Kevin Humphreys, a senior from Green Bay, Wis., has been selected to play in Monday's second annual College Hockey Senior All-Star game. The contest will he played at the Metropolitan Sports Cl·nter in Bloomington, Minn. Humphreys completed his Notre Dame career with 19 goals and IS assists this season to finish fourth in team scoring. The all-star game follows the NCAA t·hampion­shlps, which began last night in Duluth, Minn. Minnesota, Michigan Tech, Northern Michigan and Wisconsin comprise the final nmr. This season marks the first time no eastern schools qualified for the cham­pionships. 
Michael Shepardson has been named the Notre Dame swimming team's most valuable swimmer for the 1980-81 season. Thl· junior native of Cooper City, Fla., was honored last night at the team's annual awards gathering. Shepardson set school marks in the I 00-yard butterfly ( :S0.9S) and the SO-yard freestyle ( :21.4 7 ), and also swam on the record-setting 400 medley relay ( 3:34. l S) and the 400 frl·e rel;ty ( .~: l I. S I ). Senior nH·aptains John Komora and Dave Campbdl shared the coveted Charles W. Blanchard Award, presented annually to thl· swimmer who by his performance, inspiration and kadership, contributes the most to the team. Junior John Wil­lamowski was recognized as the most improved, and Don Casey and John Gibbons were dected co-<:aptains for the 191-11-1-12 campaign. The Irish finished the 191-10-H I season with a 9·3 slate and capped off 
their finl' season with thl· school's fastest-ever times in the season­ending Midwest Invitational. 
.,., ri\'B(Jbkstore Basketball meetingwill be held 
next Friday (April 3) in the Library Auditorium at 6 p.m. Rules and st·hedules will be distributed at that time. One representative for each tl·am is required at the meeting. AI t I waiting list teams that were ad· mltted into the tournament must bring their S2 at this time. First round games bl·gin Monday, April6. 
The ND-SM C Sailing Club is beginnning its spring season as host to the MCSA Icebreaker Regatta this weekend on St. Joe's Lake. Approximately twelve other universities will be represented. The regatta, which is the Sailing Club's major event ofthe year, will begin at 9 a.m. on Saturday and last until approxiately 3 p.m. on Sunday. Anyone who would like to come to the boathouse and watch the proceedings is welcome. Also, there will be a Regatta Prep Party for all old members and any prospective new members from 2 
p.m. to S p.m. at the boathouse on Thursday. The club's weekly meeting will also ht· held on Wednesday at 6:30p.m. in 203 O'Shag. 
lnterhall tennis registration deadline is approaching. Each dorm should enter a team consisting of four singles players and two doubles teams. Grad school tennis consists ofsingles competition only. Thl· entry deadline is March 31. 



Classifieds 
WATER POLOI 


Western Conference May 1 -Eastern Michigan (Yps1lant1.
An Tostallnnertube 
Midwest Division M1ch)
Water Polo Pairings 

ySan Antonio 51 30 .634 May 16-Ann Arbor Relays (Ann Arbor.
Tues., March 31 

Houston 39 41 488 11 Mich.)
6:00-Chaz·s Spazzes vs. Chappaquid· Kansas City 39 41 .488 11 May 24 -fC4A Track Champ1onsh1ps
dick.. 

Denver 35 45 .438 15 (Philadelphia, Pa.)
6:30-Wet Ones vs. Cam's Team. Utah 27 53 .333 22.5 May 30-Central Colleg1ate Conference
7:00-Linguistics vs John Ke1tel. Dallas 15 65 .188 35 (East Lansmg. M1ch.)
7.30-Whales vs. Popeye. 
Pac1fic Division 

June 6 -NCAA Outdoor Track Cham­xPhoenix 55 25 .688 PIOnships (Baton Rouge, La.) 
Wed., Aprll1 

6 00-B-P Bombers vs. Fighting Mon­xLos Angeles 53 26 .671 1.5 Home Meet 1n CAPJiALS
v•rconJI. 
xPortland 43 37 .538 12

6.30 -Humu H•¥Tiu.. vs. Monster 
Golden State 39 41 .488 16
Fish1es. 


HOCKEY 
San Diego 36 44 450 19
7:00-Buzzards vs. First Thursday. 

Seattle 33 47 .413 22
7.30-Roemer's Narc Squad ... vs. Dag· y-clinched division title. 
NATIONAL HOCKEY 
wood Blonde. 
x-clinched playoff berth. 
LEAGUE
Thurs., April 2 

Yesterday's Results How They Really Stand I Indiana 115, Atlanta 107 
6.00 -Smells L1ke F1sh vs. Steve 
Under the NHL s playoff format. the 16Theobald. 
Milwaukee 137, Cleveland 109 

teams w1th the h1ghest poml totals make San Anton•o 98. Utah 97 the playoffs. the ot 11er f•ve do not 
6:30-Drippmg .. vs. Mike Welch. 
7.00-Water Rats vs. K1ller Tomatoes. 
Today's Games

7.30-W1ld Water Wombats vs. Orear's W L T GF GA Pts
Detroit at Boston 
Porkers. 

1 St. LOUIS 43 16 16 331 257 t02
Philadelphia at Cleveland
Fri., Aprll3 

2. NY Islanders 44 17 13 332 244 101Washington at lnd1ana
6 oo'-AssaSSinS vs. Skywalker 

3. Montreal 42 20 13 317 218 97Portland at D~llas
6.30-Splashing lnsh vs. Pat MCDIVItt 

4. LosAngeles 41 23 12 318 274 94Atlanta at Chicago
7 00 -Fightmg P1ranha's vs. Van1lla 5. Buffalo 37 18 19 306 225 93Kansas City at HoustonThunder. 
Ph1ladelph1a 40 23 13 307 244 93
San D1ego at Phoenix7.30-Hurricanes vs. B1ff and the Buf· 7. Calgary 37 26 13 308 276 87Los Angeles at Seattle
fieheads. 

8. Boston 35 28 12 300 259 82 
All teams must be at The Rock 15 NCAA Tournament 
9. Mmnesota 32 26 17 270 247 81 mmu1es before game t1me. National Semifinals 
1o. Chicago 29 31 15 287 298 73 Tomorrows Games 

Vancouver 27 29 19 266 278 73 lnd1ana (24-9) vs. LOUISiana St. (31-3). 1 
Quebec 28 30 1 7 294 303 73

;:!BASKETBALL 
p.m. EST 

13. Pittsburgh 29 34 11 287 321 69 V1rgin1a (28·3) vs. North Carolina (28-7). 
14 NY Rangers 27 35 13 300 312 67 3 p.m. EST
NATIONAL BASKETBALL 15 Washmgton 24 33 18 268 299 66 ASSOCIATION 
16 Edmonton 25 35 15 301 315 65 Eastern Conference Toronto 26 37 13 302 353 65 Atlantic Division 18 Hartford1 19 3~ 18 276 350 56 xBoston 61 19 .763 19 Detro1t 19 39 16 235 31~ 54
1981 Outdoor Track

xPhiladelphia 61 19 .763 20. Colorado 21 43 11 241 324 53
Schedule

1<New York 48 32 .600 13 21 Winn•peg 9 53 12 249 365 30 Washington 37 42 .468 23.5 March 28-NOTRE DAME INVITATIONAL 
New Jersey 24 56 .300 37 April 4 -Illinois. Un1vers1ty of Chtcago Yesterday's Results Central Divis1on Track Club (Champaign, Ill.) Washmgton 2. Detro•t 0 Apnl 11 -Arkansas State Invitational
yM1Iwaukee 59 22 .725 Toronto 3, Boston 2 xChicago 43 37 .538 15.5 (Jonesboro, Ark.) Montreal8. Calgary 2 
xlnd1ana 43 37 .538 15.5 April 18 -Indiana lntercollegiates Tonight's Games Atlanta 31 49 392 27.5 (Bioommgton, Ind.) Hartford at Washington 
Cleveland 28 52 .354 30.5 Apnl 25 -Drake Relays (Des Moines, Vancouver at Wmmpeg Detroit 20 60 250 38.5 Iowa) Buffalo at Colorado 

--------------------------------------------------------, 
/~I' • ld~'•lfll' 1 ! .trl~, ·I~ I fn• lt~C"el'll~~ hy 4 45 H t'l'• IWO .f,J\oS iH•CI '0 fh1• ,.,!-..w or1 .,.,t,,l t "''' .r:l 1!:> t11r1 Thtt Observer oll1r.e .vdl .tCt ••pi 1 •,1'-"'''ech Mnnoo~ ltliOII<Jil Fnolriv 10 00 .1 rr· 'o 4 45 p n1 •\II tltiS:!>•f,t•ch 'l'lll!tl hf' Pll'·flc11CI flllhf!l Ill I•P.r>iOfl of IIHtJlof:.t'l 'hP. mdfl 


FOUND PAIR OF LADIES GLASSES IN NEED AIDE BACK TO NO FROM D.C. Mon. Mar. 30 we1rd old harold. 
If the ASSASSIN who drew Shaun J

ETS THEATRE. CALL 1829 AND ASK AREA MONDAY AFTER EASTER-4· Current and Future O.C. Residents I like you loads. thanx tor a greal break 
Murray. 211 Keenan, would like to set

FOR NIKKI 20. WILL HELP WITH GAS. CHRIS· Vote love. George tie 
up a hit', please call anyone in I he hall 

1595 KATHY JURADO 
for _asststance; we'd love Ia help Jeff Jeffers IS so ugly. he knows 111
LOST A green notebook containing For USfiD & OUT-OF-PAINT BOOKS biology notes. Th1s IS crucial to my bioi· need AIDE TO MILWAUKEE ON OFF-CAMPUS COMMISSIONER Jeff ~tiers lace IS d1sgustmg
bought, sold, searched EAI\SM4S ogy course as well" as the MCAT. II THUAS, APA111:2 CALL KATIE..U.t ,,,dl" Out to •mprove•l"ta,C." LIFE and AC­CARRYON! 
/ .:~ .........
BOOKS rues-Sunday. 12·6. 102'1' E. found please return to 305 Sorin hall or TIVITIES CARRY ON! 
Vote March 30· CLASS OF 84
Wayne (One block south ol Eddy· call 8542 and collect a handsome Needed A1de to N.W Ch:cago lor PRE· KANSAS PARTY 
... ··:········· .. ... .......... . LYNCH-PresJerterson mtersectton) reward. DESPERATE. weekend of Apnl 3. Can leave 1n alter· CLASS OF 1984-Vote lor M1ke Spel· TONIGHT 5-7 SCAIBNEA·V P noon Call Mary Julie, 41-4376 FLANNEA COMMONER 
lman, Peter Fmocch1aro, Ted Connor ROSS-SecINSTANT CASH PAID FOR CLASS FOUND. Sqme money near La Fortune and Tim Roe in the com1ng resume AADZIKINAS· Tress RINGS $20·$85 OR MORE WE MAKE dunng break Call Bob 234·6293 Alders needed to NYC area tor April 1 elections II elected. we promise to The FCC has banned Jim Goode You II 
LET THE GOOD TIMES ROLLI 
HOUSE CALLS 255-2402 Call Br~an 6758 wage a campus·wlde fight agatnst never see h1m on TV domg the sports FOUND Belore Break, a BROWN J1m Goode to UMOC 
NotreDame·s btggest problem. Female For a greal I' year· Vole Haling. Na1rn,
OVERSEAS JOBS Summer-year WAAM·UP TOP, In the Volunteer Obesity. 
Noland & Lmdqu1st They II go oul on a
round Europe, SAmer . Australia. Sevices van, call M1ke al1652. A program ol Jogging. we1ghl· T.K How about Fri. night, my place at limb toryoullAsta. All fields $500·$1 ,200 monlhly 8? The Blond g1rl i.n green
tra1n1ng and d1etettcs will be ngorouslyStghlseetng Fr88 tnlo. Wrtle IJC. Bo• FOUND. BLUE COAT AT CORBY'S 
I FOR-SALE' 

enforced lor all who quat•ly as we1ghty Class of 63 Vole Halmg Na1rn. 
·---------·-____.1.

52·1N4, Corona Del Mar. CA 92625 CALL 4614 FOR INFO _:_~ DearJ.B
wenches. 

Noland. LmdqUisl lor lhe year of yourThanks tor lhe best SIX months ot my life!!!
Will pay cash VW bugs rusted. wallled. DISCOUNT Must Sell Now 5 Cases Top CLASS OF 84. ON MONDAY. VOTE life Happy Ann•versary! roasted. blown 272·5453 Quality Pool Chlortne Tablels 277·8561 OSCAR Osorio· pres. Love Ya Always. 
Dreamy Scotly Kmg of Buller and 
Jane Marnock-v.p MP. 
Crumbs. IS truly sexually exc1tmgl 

[FOR RENT]
MORRISSEY LOAN FUND 

Matt Towse·treas Semors can no longer apply Last day 35mm Camera-Mam1ya-Sekor MSX D1ane Dtrkers·sec. CLASS OF I 963 Interested 1n Law?
for underclassmen to apply IS 500 Includes 50mm, 135telephoto and tor THE OSCAR winning ticket! NACHEFF·Pres. 
The SMC Pre-Law Soc1ely 1s sponsor·
Thursday Apr112 Furnished 4 bedroom house to ne•t 2X teleconverler All cases mcluded. AVILA·V P mg a praci!C& LSAT lesl tor all In·school year close to campus. good $250 00. Call 6702 VOTE lor THE OSCAR wmn1ng t1ckel! KELLY-Sec. 
leresled SMC ND tumors on Sunday
Volunteers needed lor water safety area, 277 ·3604 or 288-0955 
HANSON· Treas. 
March 29th S•gn up by Thursday Call
sess•ons for handicapped at Logan No VITO He·s all MINEI!III LET'S GO FOR IT! 
Dr Br1sbm (492511or lurlher details 
cer11flcatton necessary-good swtm­Summer houses and rooms, furnished, mers only II tnterested attend March walk to campus, cheap rent, 277·3604 Pour l'homme qut a1me beaucoup les Attentton country mustc lovers. 
SMC commt&Sioners will soon be ftll· 30 meeting at Red Cross Center 3220 E or 286·0955 TICKETS arcs·en·c1el ·· Je crois que 1e suts tres bluegrass tanat1cs, blue·tlck hounds. 
mg lhe1r cabmet pos111ons Star I lhmk· Jellerson al 7 30 PM or contact Votun· 
en retard en ecnvant. ma1s · II est ict en and general lald·back lypes Chns 
mg now aboul how you d like lo 
leer Servtces0fftce,l.5 LaForluneCen-Ava1lble for tall •• 3&5 bedroom house fin J'espere que vous (tu!) etes le pot Morgan defiles the NAZZ TONIGHT al become mvolved ler (7308) lor more details ' m walking distance of campuus For I need 3 (that's three) graduat1on tick· d or. aunl·sera un Ires bon mots. non? 9 See y·allthere' details call alter 6pm. 232·3284 ets. (Yes. folks, 11's startmg already.) If PutS·Je emprunter votre pantalon THE CIRCUS IS COMING' 
ASSASSINS Tell me an Assassin slory you can help me. call Scoop al1772. encore. s'1llu plait? Hey guys · It's nol too late to WISh the Only the mteresttng ones please Call 6 bedrooms $100-mo. each Each has 
w•ld and crazy Moe McCarlhy a Happy THE CIRCUS IS COMING' 
John H•gg•ns at1715 or 8553 door lock and lavatory Commun1ly ask MARY THOMPSON who she II be 20th B~rthday at4 t ·4137! hvmg room & k1tchen Fully lurmshed sleepmg w1lh Saturday!!!!! 
help I need a room lor graduallonVOTE lor THE OSCAR wmmng lickel! 2 baths Bicycle storage Free washer & Toothy lives m Mor1ssey Hall! 
PERSONALS weekend. If you have an extra. call Tnn 
dryer. Clean Rated super1or Box 2513. 0. Whal IS the mosl popular artlorm 1n 
at'233·5422 South Bend 46680, the Yukon? kelly A The moosea1c. naturally! Happy No 22. and 'let's have an excel·
BUMPEASTICKEA M Munsell. have a super week AVAILABLE NEXT SCHOOL YEAR 2 (One lor lhe arlsy·fartsy crowd. small lent weekend!
(1) WHEN YOU SAY NOTRE DAME. celebra11ng your birlhday I rom Mom

LOST/FOUND 

FIVE BEDROOM HOUSES, NEAR NO, though 11 may be) Love Mark 
YOU'VE SAID IT ALL" and the campus vtewers 
LEASE. DEPOSIT. 234-2626 Moose Control .. . . ...... Linda. let's get the hell out of here. eh?
(2) WHEN YOU SAY IAIS)'1, YOU'VE 

SAID IT ALL" FOR SALE. One Sen1or Formal B1d ­
LOST BLUE CANVAS WALLET tn ACC Housebroken Cartoon1sl needs The Vanlan Saga Get ready to lose some pounds love
$2 00 each. Send check or money or· $50 Call Dav1d al233·3658 alter 7 p m. 
mon·s locker room, 3-10·81 PLEASE Aoom.roommates,etc. for first semes· When the Trumbullian Regulator bill
derto: 

return wallet, or more Importantly, Its ter next year .call M1chael1795 .. while Impeded the progress ol my starcrUiser
IRISH" You gotta love 11! SUNDEF l<IV.. une 
contenls (my ID, license.etr.) to etlher supply lasts I P.O. BOX 3364 across the Vaman Sector. my ~re was tane·o so1ree samedt sotr chez Mary and Sue 
lhe Psychology dept oll1ce 1n Haggar 
only 52 days! please remember to
aroused as 11 has not been aroused m
CHAPEL HILL, N.C. 27514 (229 Walsh). D1ane sera Ia Venez
Hall, or the Counseling Center (41h eons. I Will purge Control of these ver· send tnsh's address tf you don·t send nombreuse! Don I forget those purple
floor Ad Bldg) .. KEEP the cash con· Son/or Formal bid for sale. Cheap (So's mm. w1th Ihe assistance ol my Restless me this mformation soon, t w111 assume pants and pink scarves. Come dressedIenis as a reward. I tust wanl my ID's, Herd. The Regulator has been too bold you no longer care tor my be mg. ilth1s
my date I) Call Mike 1795. as a memory!
alclll NO QUESTIONS ASKED. II you WANTED I must confront h1m now. before he at· turns out to be the case. 1 wtll seek ven· have tnfo about 1ts whereabouts, lempts the foolishness ol lhe red· gence cooperatiOn 1S adv1sed
NEW WAVE BAND Aemmd J1m Drtflwood Murray that
please conlact Chuck Lepkowsky al headed poacher w1th love,
BARNABAS he •• gomg to be an old man on Mon­
1718 days, or 289-5964 n1ghts WANTED: cheap s•x-slnng guitar. I'm t•m
THIS SATUADAY NIGHT day I Call8366 Happy 22nd love, tvnol picky. Call2956 
--~ ~--~-~----~~-~ ------~·---~---------~·~ 
~---­



Sports 
Spring drills begin 

The waiting is ovet 
By KELLY SULLIVAN 
AssociateSports Editor 
About twenty-four hours from now. Gerry Faust's wait will be over, and a new chapter in Notre Dame football will begin. The Irish official­ly start spring drills tomorrow after­noon on Cartier Field in the first of 20 workouts scheduled between now and the annual Blue-Gold game on May 2. 
"We're all fired up about getting outside and starting to put things to­gether," says Faust. "But you've got to remember that I've never been through spring practice before so I think this will be a real learning ex­perience for all of us." 
Faust may feel like a rookie for a while, but .W letterwinners from the 1980-8 I campaign return as seasoned performers. Sixteen star­ters (eight dn offense and eight on defense) will be back from a 9-2-1 team that won its first seven games, reached the top of the wire service polls, and earned a bid to the Sugar Bowl. 
"We think there ought to be some pretty good football players in that group," Faust added.• 
Out ofthat group, which includes a mmtmum of one returning monogram winner at every position, the coaches must find replacements for All-American centerJohn Scully, flanker Pete Holohan, and guard Bob Burger on offense. Defensively, the starters gone include All-American end Scott Zettek. safety and tri­captain Tom Gibbons, and end John Hankerd. 
To find those replacements, Faust insists he will ignore final depth charts from last season, and will begin forming impressions come Saturday. 

"I purposely stayed away from looking at any film ofthe players we have coming back," he explained. "I want to keep a clear mind about the chances ofall our players, and I don't want to be influenced by what has happened in the past. We want anyone out there to feel like he has as good a shot at winning a starting position as anyone else." 
Faust .may be keeping an open 
mind, but he admits last year's 
defensive unit made quite an im­
pression on him. 
"By midseason Notre Dame probably had as good a defense as it has had in a few years. It's nice to see so many of those same people com­ing back." ' 
The linebacking trio of All­American Bob Crable, Mark. Zavagnin andJoe Rudzinski form the core of the Irish denial squad. Tackles Pat Kramer,.)oe Gramke and Tim Marshall have the potential to provide Notre Dame with another tenacious front four. And the secon­dary enjoys unequaled depth with 
John Krimm, Stacey Toran and Chris Brown available at cornerback, and Dave Duerson, Steve Cichy and Rod Bone all ready at safety. _ 
All the defensive coaches are hol­dovers from last season's staff, and don't forsee any major revisions on the 4-.3 system Notre Dame has used the past several years. 
"Notre Dame traditionally has been a great defensive team," says Faust, "and we aren't going to change things just for the sake of changing them." 
Real changes will be made, however, with the Irish offense. 
Irish runners host ND Invitational 
By MATI HUFFMAN 
Sports Writer 
In addition to baseball and beefy joggers, a sure sign of spring is an outdoor track meet. The outdoor version of the Notre Dame track team will kick off its season tomor­row at noon in the ten-team Notre Dame Invitational. 
Like the rest of the university, the Irish track squad has had a week off since the end of the ind!Jor cam­paign. "It's natural that the kids will be a little out ofshape this weekend, but we're going to work very hard in practice during the week," says head coachJoe Piane. 
The Saturday afternoon meet will include nine teams besides Notre Dame: Alma, Aquinas, Hillsdale, Jackson Community College, Lake \-tichigan CC. ,\larquette, Southwes­tern :\>tichigan, Valparaiso, and the University ofChicago Track Club. 
The above list of seemingly dubious opponents can be mislead­ing. Among these schools are ath­letes of national championship caliber. Performing for the Univer­sity of Chicago Track Club will be Pat Matsdorf, a former world record holder in the high jump. 
Brian Olsen ofjackson CC placed second in the three mile in the NCAA Junior Collge Champion­
.. ships. Mark Wozniak, listed as an outstanding· distance man by Piane, placed fourth in the three mile in the same meet. Pete Skorseth, who placed second in the National Cath­olic Championship cross country meet run here at Notre Dame, will be running forJim Allen's Marquette Warriors. 

"It's hard to say whether we're a better team indoors or outdoors," says Piane. "Since our sprinting corps is sparse I would say better in­doors since there is an extra sprint relay on the outdoor list ofevents." 
Javelin thrower George Petras is wary of the perils of the first meet. "It's really early in the season so some of the performances won't be up to par, but I think we'll do pretty well," said the junior spearchucker. 
This will be a non-scoring meet which, according to Piane, has cer­tain advantages. 
"The value of this type of meet is that it allows you to be more flexible. You don't have to worry where you place people according to how many points they might get. You can just put people in their best events and let them run," explains Piane. 
"It's also a chance for a lot of 
people to run. Just about everybody 
on the team will be doing some­
thing. There is really no pressure 
either and that makes it more fun. 
"There will be some good com­petition there however. The kids should be challenged in every event so it should be a really good meet. 
"I'm optimistic about the outdoor season. I think we are ready to make the move. Besides, there is a home and garden show (in the ACC) and we didn't have any choice." 
The field events are scheduled to start at 12, and the running events will start at 1 p.m. with the 10,000 meter run. The meet will be run on the 400-meter all-weather track around Cartier Field. 
Aided by four new assitant coaches, Faust will implement a pressuring, wide-open attack that utilizes a wingback -as the flanker slot has been renamed -as a combination ball-carrier and pass receiver. 
"On offense, we want to do every­thing we can to put pressure on the other team's defense. We'll use a lot of different formations and give people a lot of different looks. We'll be capable of running or throwing the football anytime we need to do so." 
Running back Phil Carter, with All-American written all over him, promises to make the ground game a sure threat. The offensive captain returns along with the fullback tan­dem ofjohn Sweeney and Pete Buc­hanan. The stellar receiving duo of Tony Hunter and -Dean Masztak provide an airial attack that will be tough to match, though split end Hunter has been bothered by an ankle injury and may have to miss much ofspring ball. 
Size and experience characterize the offensive line, who last year allowed Notre Dame's best rushing attack in six seasons. Tackles Phil Pozderac and Mike Shiner anchor that unit, which also returns veteran guards Randy Ellis, Tom Thayer and Rob Gagnon. 
"Our number one goal this spring is to put in the multiple offense," 
See DRILLS, page 9 
Friday, March 27, 1981 -page 12 

Yes, it's baseball time again, and Irish first baseman Henry Valen­zuela is back in peak form. See related story on page I0. 
Another Leahy? 


Coach Faust faces future 
Editor's note: This is the final segment of The Ob­server'sfour-part series looking at new headfootball coach Gerry Faust. 
To many of Notre Dame's demanding fans and alumni, it must have been almost too good to be true. 
From 1946 through 1949, the University of Notre Dame football team was simply too good. During those four seasons, coach Frank Leahy's Irish won 36 ofthe 38 
games they played. The other two games were ties ­against Southern Cal and a fabled 1946 Army squad. 
But while if may have been too good to be true for Notre Dame's greedy fans, it was just plain too true for the people who sit directly under the Golden Dome. So they brought things to a crashing halt. 
Succumbing to charges that Notre Dame was placing too much emphasis on winning and had become no­thing more than a foo~ball factory, the school's ad­ministration ordered a de-emphasis in the football program, including a cutback in scholarships. It wasn't until Ara Parseghian arrived in 1964 that the Irish foot­ball fortunes were fully resurrected. 
There have been three. Notre Dame National Cham­pionship teams since then, and the head coaching baton has passed from Parseghian to Dan Devine to 45-year­old Gerry Faust, straight from Cincinnati's Moeller High School. 
Faust's 174-17-2 won-loss record at Moeller not only prompted Notre Dame Executive Vice-President Fr. Ed­mundJoyce to boldly reach into the high school coach­ing ranks to fill the most prestigous coaching job in the nation, but it also prompted an intriguing question ­could history repeat itself? 
Barely four months after his anointment as the Uni­versity of Notre Dame's 24th head football coach, before he has even set foot on the practice complex behind the Athletic and Convocation Center, let alone led a Fighting Irish squad through the north tunnel of Notre Dame Stadium, Faust is posed that very question. 
Not surprisingly, Faust refuses to discuss the pos­sibility. After all, it would be quite presumptuous of a man who had yet to coach a single college game to con­sider his chances ofmatching the legacy left by Leahy. 
While Faust is wisely letting other people worry about what will happen if his teams become too good, the others are quick to ponder the possibility. 
Just two days after Faust received the job, long-time Notre Dame observer Bill Gleason, a columnist for the ChicagoSun Times, penned a work under the headline, "New worry: Will Irish become TOO good?" 
With 16 starters from the 9-2-1 1980 squad and what is widely regarded as the finest recruiting class in the country set to join them in August, the thought of a juggernaut certainly can't be dismissed as folly. But rather than on-the-field talent or his dazzling prep record, it seems to be Faust's personality that has sparked the visions ofgrandeur. 

At any rate, at least Faust boasts practical experience at defending the thrusts and parries of perennial losers who cry in their beer while Faust leads his players in yet another post-victory prayer -he dealt with more than a smattering ofsour grapes at Moeller. 
"It seems that instead of people trying to emulate a successful program, they try to tear it down," offers Faust. "And really, you want to emulate, because who benefits from it? The kids." 
Faust is quick to add that compiling a 174-17-2 record at Notre Dame will take a little more doing than it did at Moeller. 
"You can dominate more on the high school level than at the college level," he says. "In college, there are many more restrictions as far as numbers go -players, how many assistants you're allowed." 
But domination is exactly what many of Notre Dame's followers will demand of Faust. 
"The public evaluates a team on its wins and losses, and that's the thing they have to live with. It's important to win," he allows, "but there are other aspects that are just as important as winning." 
Faust ticks off a list -cooperation, example, attitude, togetherness and spiritual existence. 
Ofhis list ofpriorities and its relationship to winning football games, Faust says simply, "You can't have one without the other." 
He prefaces many ofhis statements with a disclaimer ofsorts -"This may sound corny, but I'm in coaching for a different reason than most other coaches," he says . "I'm here to help these kids reach their goals -to teach a little more of what life is about. You can only play football for so long." 
Faust is often referred to as a molder of men, and he has on occasion paused to ponder how else he would reach young men ifnot through coaching. 
See FAUST, page 9 






