-----~~ -~ 
• Spring Break -pages 6 & 7 

New Senate approves housing proposal 

ByJEFF CHOPPIN 
StaffReporter 
In the first meeting of the 1981­1982 Student Senate, the Senate passed a housing proposal designed to make clear the policy concerning entry by University employees into student's rooms. All the voting mem­bers attended the meeting. 
The Senate cited a letter sent by a 
woman  in  Breen-Phillips  Hall  
describing  an  incident  that  
demonstrated the  lack of a  clear  

p<)Iicy. During the incident, two per­sons entered a room using a passkey. When questioned on their identity, the man replied that he worked for Building Services and the woman replied that she worked for Alumni Relations. Pat Borchers, housing representative from the Senate, reported that they told the truth. 
Borchers reported that Fr. Hep­pen "was not in favor" of anything that happened, and that it "was not normal procedure." He also reported that no definite entry regulations exist in DuLac. 
The proposal originally contained five parts. Generally stated, the proposal requires either the resi­dent's or the Housing Director's per­mission in order for University employees or officials to enter the room. Emergencies get exceptions. In ca5e ofa maintenance inspection, they must inform the student beforehand of th~ purpose and time ofthe inspection. 
The sixth part of the proposal, 
suggested by Student Union Direc­
tor Bill Lawler, states that if rooms 
house somebody over a break, the 
students must give permission. 
Don Murday, Student Body Presi­dent presiding over his first Senate meeting, addressed the new Senate, saying, "I encourage you all to please get involved." He added, "Ifwe work together, a lot of things can be ac­complished....! expect you to be the voice ofthe students, I want to hear what you have to say." 
The off-campus problem came up at last night's meeting. Murday said that the students must realize tha they ale "members of a com­munity." Matt Huffman, off-campus senator, stated that the students must initiate a working relationship. He reported the general attitude of the neighbors -"We're not going to take it anymore." 
Tom Lupo, senior class president, said that the neighbors sec it a5 "the same thing every year." The stu­dents move in, throw a lot ofparties, move out, and then the group after them does the same thing. Kathy Jurado, off-campus commissioner, stated that the police started an ef­fort to crack down. At a recent meeting of the ad-hoc CLC commit­tee formed to study the off-campus situation, a pro~~cuting attorney made threats ofaction, according to 
Jurado. 
Folie a deux 
Couple drive each other mad 
By WAYNE SLATER 
Associated Press Writer 
CAMBRIDGE, Ill. (AP) They disappeared sometime after daybreak, leaving a stack oflove letters and their la5t chance behind them. He wa<> a doctor, a one-time honor student and Air Force flight surgeon with impeccable credentials. She once taught Sunday school. Roger and Sharon Ihrig were young, bright and full of promise. And now they were.on the run, again. "The technical term is folie a deux," French for 'madness of two,' said psychologist Rip O'Keefe, director of the drug center the Ihrigs fled March 
18. "You have two people who individually are marginal at best and who together bring out the worst in each other." Their road to self-destruction began about 1979 -failed marriages, failed 
jobs, alcohol, drugs and finally "a string of motel rooms with bloody sheets and used syringes left behind," police said.
TUESDAY;::::::=============::::::::::::::: 
The road led to Galva, a little farm town where, last November, police ar­-rested Sharon in a dime store for
=;============~=====~FOCUS
. . 
shoplifting chocolate bars and a black 
blouse. In her car, police found a rain­bow of capsules and bottles of prescription drugs, including injectable Valium. 
When Roger learned his wife had been arrested, he filled a syringe with Benadryl, stuck the needle in his arm and then walked to the police station. "He was dressed in a sports coat, white shirt and tie that looked like they had been slept in for days," police said. 
When he slipped off his jacket, everyone in the station saw that Dr. Roger Ihrig's right shirtsleeve was soaked with fresh blood. "I look at all the potential he had,'' said his lawyer, Dale Haake of Rock Island. "Somewhere, something happened." 
Exactly what happened is not clear. But the picture emerging from police 
and military records and reports from former colleagues is ofan attractive, 
gifted young man who had everything, and lost it all. 
Ihrig was born 31 years ago, the son ofa wheat farmer in Goodland, Kan., 
where the earth lies as flat as a billiard table. He earned his medical degree 
from Kansas University in 1974and served his internship in the Air Force at 
Alamogordo, N.M. 
"I've seen his Air Force records, 120 pages," Haake sz.id. "He stepped into 
responsible positions that in the past had thn:e or four physicians, and he 
would do the job all by himself. And at the same time he would improve 
CAPE CANAVERAL, Fla. (AP) ­After two flawless days in orbit, the shuttle Columbia and her crew · prepared yesterday for the searing, dangerous test of a spaceship's 
ability to survive a winged re-entry and land like an airliner. 
Questions about the integrity of heat-shielding tiles on Columbia's underbelly added extra tension to 
efficiency, improve patient relations and get nothing but outstanding com­ments." Six feet tall, with sar.dy-colored hair, he jogged for health and read mys­teries for fun. He joined the Elks and the Masons. 
But about 1979, it all began to fall apart. His seven-year marriage soured and by Christmas, occa5ional injections of Benadryl, an antihistamine with sedative side effects, on sleepless nights had become a twice-a-day habit, police say he told them. 
He tried to start a private practice. He failed. He .went to San Diego and joined the Navy. He wa5 divorced. His wife got custody 9f their two sons. Shortly after that, he married Sharon Espinosa, ?2, twice-married and someone who "givesme strength," he told police. 
See MADNESS, page 4 
the mission's end. 
The launch and flight have been nothing but smooth sailing "The only thing bad is we're going to have to come down," said commander john Young, making a record fifth space flight. 
During a space-to-White House conversation, Young told Vice Presi­dent George Bush that "the space­ship is just performing beautifully." 
That was the opinion ofeveryone connected with the trial flight of a spacecraft that had never been tested before in orbit. 
"I think your trip is just going to ignite the excitement and forward thinking for this country," said Bush. "We'll be watching that re-entry and landing with great interest on behalf ofthe whole country." 
. For astronauts Young and Robert Crippen, the scheduled l :28 p.m. EST touchdown on the Rogers Dry Lake desert runway at Edwards Air Force Base in California will mark 
, See LANDING, page 4 
Mass assassins 
Roemer terms $lf-me frightening~ 
ByLAURAL.UUUMORE 
Senior StaffReporter 
Dean of Students james Roemer advised students today to "consider othc::r creative ways of having fun" during An Tostal, rather than the Mass Assassins game. Hall rectors and security reported at least five incidents concc::rning abuses of the game, he noted. 
Roemer cited several examples. In Lt:wis Hall, two students entered the dorm at 3 a.m. to shoot two girls they didn't know. Two incidents took place in Pasquerilla West; one involved opening the door to a room where the residents slept at 4 a.m. to commit an 'assassination'. 
The abuses ventured beyond the 
women's halls. Students reportedly 
broke into~ roo~ in Cavanaugh Hall which con~ained spare room keys. They then used one of the keys to enter the l~cke~ room of a sleeping resident, afterwards returning the key to its proper location. 
The game poses problems "from a psychological Point of view, and from the point. of view of women's security,': Roemer commented. "In view of the rctcent assassination at­tempt o? the President, this gives us something to1reflect upon." 
Roemer also noted that with the controversy :about handguns a cur­rent topic bf discussion, this is a "scaty time." "Someone breaking in­to a room where you were sleeping could be very frightening." 
"From the point of view of com­mon sense, there are better games 
for An Tostal. I'm sure studc::nts can consider other creative ways of having fun,'' the dean concluded. 
jeb Cashin, in charge of the Mass Assassins game, expressed irritation that no one in the An Tostal commit­tee recdved formal gripes from any member ofthe Administration. "The first we heard Wa5 what McDonnell (Director ofStudent Activities) said in the paper." 
Cashin said he felt the game operates with a minimum number of complications. He failed to com­ment on the proposed cancellation of the game for future years, beyond those previously expressed by Mitch Fcikes in a letter to The Ob­seroer last week. 
r 
l\T~~S~l;)~~~i~~~~~S~=======*=======================T=u=es=da=y=,A=p=ri=I=14=,=19=B=t;=P=a=ge==2 
by The Observer and The Associated Press 
When a drug dealerpromises marijuana but delivers oregano or charges cocaine prices for baking soda, he'll be held liable for delivering the real thing under a law signed by Indiana Gov. Robert 
A modest proposal
D. Orr. The measure was among eight approved by the governor yes­
terday. The list also included a bill to give a break to the American steel industry. Unless otherwise noted, the new laws take effect Sept. 
1. The drug bill say~ it is a Class D felony to deliver what is purported to be a drug, regardless of whether it really is a controlled substanc~. The domestic steel preference bill specifies the head of a pubhc agency can use American-made steel, even ifi~ costs ~5 ~ercent more than imported metal. By law now, the price d1fferenttalls 1 5 percent. The determining factor in using domestic steel that costs 25 percent more is whether the agency head believes it will help the state or local economy to use American-made steel. The law takes effect immediate­ly. -AP 
A preliminary study has linked birth contra~ pills to hteast cancer in women whose families have a history ofthe d1sease, a researcher said today. The study, by scientists at New York Medical Colkgc in Valhalla, N.Y., said women whose grandmothers or aunts had suffered breast cancer appeared slightly more likely to get the disease themselves if they used oral contraceptives. Earlier studies ha\·e shown no link between the pill and cancer, although women · u~ing oral contraceptives run a small increased risk of circulatory problt:ms, particularly blood clots. Breast cancer is the most common cancer among women, striking one women in 15. The scientists, led by pathologist Dr. Maurice M. Black ofthe college's Institute of Breast Diseases, said their "preliminary studies" must be duplicated by others to be confirmed. -AP 
Home Secretary William Whitelaw yester­
day anounced a major government investigation of Britain's worst race riots since World War II and rejected blacks' demands that he pull out more than 1,000 poiice sent into the Brixton ghetto during riots this weekend. Black leaders in the south London ghetto called for a mass rally this Sunday in support of 200 blacks arrested in the weekend clashes, which injured more than 200 people and caused an estimated S2 million damage. Whitelaw, who is in charge of the na· tion's law enforcement, told Parliament, "The police will continue to do their duty to maintain.the law on the streets ofLondon." He said an appeals judge, Lord Scarman, will head the government investigation into the "most serious disorder" in the black slum. Scotland Yard said 204 people were injured -149 police officers, 40 rioters, 12 firemen and three ambulance crewmen -as rioting snowballed in South Lon­don's impoverished Brixton district. -AP 
The three-day strike by film and television writers claimed its first victim Monday when NBC-TV officials announced that "The Tonight Show Starring Johnny Carson" will broadcast reruns indefinitely. The announcement, made just before the show's usual 5:30p.m. PST tapng at NBC's Burbank studio, came after the first day ofpicketing by members ofthe Writers Guild ofAmerica across town at 20th Century-Fox studios. "IfJohnny Carson has taken this stand, it represents a great tribute by one ofour top performers to the value of writers in this industry," commented Guild president Melville Shavel­son. "Tonight Show" spokesman Joe Bleeden, noting that the show normally has seven to nine writers, said he didn't see any of them report for work yesterday. He did not know if Carson himself had a hand in the decision not to go on without writers. With everything pointing to a protracted strike, hundreds ofdemonstrators peacefully picketed outside 20th Century-Fox studios to express their dismay over what they termed an embarrassingly low contract offer from film and TV producers. -AP 
U.S. DistrictJudge Naumann Scott stayed the 
execution of Dalton Prejean yesterday with less than 48 hours to spare, ruling that more arguments should be heard on'whether the convicted killer was too young to be condemned to die, a Louisiana court clerk said. Prejean's lawyer, Thomas Guilbeau, said had been prepared to go to the 5th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals if Scott had refused to stay the execution, scheduled for early tomorrow. Guil­beau said Prejean, sentenced to die when he was I 7 for killing a state trooper, was growing edgy as his execution date drew neare_r.. At An­gola State Prison, Warden Frank Blackburn had ~een waltm~ for Scott's ruling before deciding whether to move Prqean to a solitary cell in the prison's bleak, cinder-block death house. Part ofGuilbeau's petition for a stay said the execution should be dellJyed until the U.S. Supreme Court rules on whether a person can be executed for a crime he committed while still a juvenile. -AP 
Mostly cloudy, windy and colder wih m?rning sprinkles. Temperatures falling into the 40s by afternoon. Clearmg and col~er ~t night. Low in the low to mid 30s. Sunny and cool tomorrow. Htgh m the mid SOs. -.4P 
The housing lottery crisis is over now for another year. The all-too-familiar compromise has been made again. The good news, ofcourse, is the decision that an off-campus lottery for next y~ar's senior men has been ruled out. The familiar bad news is that ridiculous over­crowding will continue to be part of Notre Dame dorm life for another year. How many years will this ugly compromise be made before some long-range plan is implemented to eliminate the problem once and for all? 

•Review Notre Dame's admissions policy with an eye Football schedules are arranged years in advance, and 
toward more closely monitoring the number of fresh­other University interests arc covered by well-managed 
men admitted to the total on campus housing pool. On long-range planning. Why, then, should housing be 
the surface, this would seem the easiest solution -just perennially handled in a sloppy, tentative manner? Each 
don't let so many freshmen in -but there arc problems year it seems that the University allows itselfto fall into 
with some prospective students wavering in their deci­the same crisis -the spring-time spectre of too many 
sions until the last minute, and more people than ex­on-campus housing requests and not enough spaces to 
pected deciding to come to Notre Dame. There should offer.· 
be better correlation between Housing and Admissions The excuse can be made that students are fickle. To Departments decisions. simply throw money into building new dormitories one 
•Build a new men's dorm on campus. After the con­year for a surplus ofstudents that may dissipate the next 
struction of Pasquerilla East and West, this might seem is simply bad business, the argument goes. But there has 
to some to be only fair, but there are space restrictions, been a trend, not only at Notre Dame, but on college 
as well as the cost-prohibitive nature of building·a new campuses throughout the nation, ofan increased desire 
dorm from the ground up without having any long­to live on campus. In South Bend that desire has been range commitment to increasing male enrollment. bolstered by the pressures 

•Convert .all or part ofthe of crime in the off-campus 
infirmary to housing space student housing areas. 
for men who are currently Therefore, it would seem 
living in overcrowded quar­safe to say that the current 
ters. The infirmary would level of demand for on 
m'ake a beautiful and spa· campus housing is no fluke 
cious dorm, without the or short-term bulge. In other 
cost of new construction. words, ifthe housing supply 
The soon-to-be vacated remains constant, we can 
WNDU building could be look forward to more 
used as a student health cen­springtimes of discontent. 
ter to serve the campus in In addition, several 
tandem with services of­residence halls are already 
fered nearby at St. Joseph'sover-crowded to the extent 
Hospital. that a surplus ofstudents for 
•conduct a campus-wideexisting space is guaranteed 
study of room use to assure for at least three years to 
that all housing space is come. The renovation and 
being used to maximum ef­expansion of St. Edward's 
ficiency. RAs are in some in­Hall should help this fall, but 
stances living in according to this year's lottery compromise, the study unjustifiably large "suites" while four men down the 
lounges in Flanner and Grace will still be filled with hall art: living in a would-be triple or double. There are victims ofover-crowding. many instances of disparity both on the positive and It is not only reasonable, therefore, but imperative negative side. A comprehensive review of present that some serious long-range planning be done to help rooms as well as other convertible dorm space could 
alleviate the yearly housing crisis. I am hopeful that the yield at surprising net gain of housing space. PACE (Priorities and Committments for Excellence) •Construct more townhouses on the Northeast fringe Committee now discussing many aspects of the future of campus similar to the Grace-O'Hara Apartments or 
course for Notre Dame, will make housing overcrowd­University Village. This plan would be costly, but ing one of its key issues. If PACE has the same level of judging from the profits being reaped by the developers influence that the Curriculum Revision Committee of of other similar developments like Campus View or the late '60s commanded, there is indeed cause for Turtle Creek, the University would not have to expect a hope. PACE's recommendations will be included in yearly loss in the long run. The "safety in numbers prin· Provost Timothy O'Meara's report to Fr. Hesburgh. ciple" as well as the Northeast fringe's isolation from 
Some ideas should be discussed immediately and the South Bend community would probably result in a decisions made as soon as possible, however. There are much lower crime rate, and the proximity to campus attractive alternatives to the yearly housing crunch. 
would make the University-subsidized townhouses a Some are rather simple, but tough to implement; others 
popular alternative for would-be seniors -not a place are expensive, but promising in the long run. Some of 
where students would end up after "losing" in a future my ideas on housing alternatives for the future: housing lottery. 
The_Qhs_erxer 
INTRODUCING 
flltir~imm 
Design Editor ....................... Monica Gugle Design Assistants ....................... Tonia Hap 
~J\lJ\J\~ 
Jeff Moore Typesetter ............................... Bruce Oakley 
ADVERTISE FREE AS MANY ARTICLES AS YOU WISH 
Neu•s Editor.............................. Lynne Daley Copy Editor................... David Rickabaugh 
PAY IF AND ONLY WHEN YOU SELL 
Features Layout ......................... Pat Byrnes 
Private Owners Only
Sports CopyEdilor ............. Skip Desjardin Typist ........................................... Mike Monk 
Pick up your copy of the First Issue April 10 from your neighbo_rhood 
ND Day Editor ...................... Dan Gonzales 
stores or from our office at 1717 E. South Bend Ave., SUite E. 
SMC Day Editor............... Mary Kay Hogan 
South Bend, Indiana 46637.
Ad Design .................................. Fran & Shag Photographer ....................... Tim McKeogh 
Write or call 277-8521 to place your ads. 
Guest Appearances ............... Binhday Girl 
Deadline for accepting ads for our April 24th issue is Friday, April17. 
Amy "the Wet One" Lowden Streaks of anger across the night sky 
SPECIAL INTRODUCTORY OFFER 
Dave .. Nice Guy.. Irwin Tim "Sure I'm happy" Neely 
Advertise for two weeks free in our April 24th issue even if you sell. 
Editorial Board.and Department Managers
====Ihe Observer== 
Editor-in-ChieF............................... .......John McGrath SMC Executive Editor .....................Mary Agnes CareyBox Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 . Managing Editor ................................Tom jackman SMC News Editor ................................Cathy Domanico The Observer is an independent newspaper published by the studems ot rht· Executive ,\'eu:s Editor ..............................Lynne Daley Photo Editor...................................................)ohn Macor · · f N t Dame duLac and Saint Mar\.·'s College. lc does nor neu:ssanl~ News Editor ........... ................................Tim Vercellotti
uver:my o o re . . . . ' . . . . · . . i 
Business Manager ............. ......................Rich Coppola
ilect the policies of the admmJstratJon _of e1the~ mstJtutJon. The news 1s r<: pone~ :veu·s Editor..... ... . ....................... .John Higgins Controller........................................................joe Mulftur
accurarely and as objectively as poss1ble_. Ed•ro.n~ls represent the o~JnH!n.of ,a Senior Copy Editor....... .... :\1ary Fran Callahan 
Advertising Manager... . .............................. Mark Ellis 
1 · ·r f the Edirorial Board. Commenranes, optmons, and lerrers art th<: \1<:"\\<s Sports Editor. ......... . ....... Michael Ortman 
Production Manager ................... Ryan Ver Berkmoes
Features Editor ............. ....... ........ . .Rick Hermida
/~;~/a~thors. Column space is.a_vailable ro all members of rhe commumry_. a~d 
Circulation Manager... ......Tom Mac~nnan 
, free expression of varying opmwns on campus. through letters, 1s encouragui. 
' 
·-----------------------·-·-·-------------------­
·rhe Observer Tuesday, April14, 1981 -page 3 

The raceforfinding the ugliest man (or woman) on (·ampus con· tinues. (Photo -by Tim McKeogh)
lotte (N.C.) Observer was awarded the 1981 Pulitzer Prize for meritorious public service and The New York Times was cited for na­tional reporting and commentary as the 65th Pulitzer Prizes in jour­nalism were announced yesterday. 
The Longview (Wash.) Daily 
, News, with a circulation of 26,000, received a Pulitzer in local reporting for its coverage of the eruption of Mount St. Helens. Times reporter john M. Crewdson, Houston correspondent for the newspaper,· won for more than 40 articles on illegal aliens and immigration problems. Dave Ander­son of The Times was cited for his sports columns. The Arizona Daily Star was awarded a Pulitzer for special local reporting for its investigation of the University of Arizona athletic department. The Miami Herald won the award for international reporting for dis­patches by Shirley Christian from Central America. Awards for cartooning went to Mike Peters of the Dayton (Ohio) Daily News and for spm news photography to Larry C. Price of the Fort Worth (Texas) Star Telegram for photographs from Libeia. The award for feature writing went to janet Cooke of The Wash­ington Post for her article about an 8-year-old heroin addict. The Pulitzer for criticism was awarded to jonathan Yardley ofThe Washington Star for his book reviews. There was no Pulitzer awarded for editorial writing. The featun: photography award went to Taro M. Yamasaki of The Detroit Free Press f<Jr his pictures of jackson State Prison in Michigan. The Pulitzer Prizes were founded by the late joseph Pulitzer. publisher of-the old New York World. They have been awarded since IYI 7 by Columbia University on re~om­mendation ofan advisory board. Ex­cept for the public service category, the awards carry a prize of $1 ,000 each. The winner in the public service category gets a gold medal. The Pulitzer jury said the Ob­server "focused its editorial 
public attention to a killer -in­published 22 articles and eight visible cotton dust breathed by editorials detailing the failure of 11 5,000 textile workers every day public officials, businessmen and in the Carolinas." 
physicians to deal with brown lung. 
FatherMcAvoy dies after long illness 
Reverend john McAvoy, C.S.C., 74, of Holy Cross House, Notre Dame, died at 6 p.m. Sunday in St. joseph's Medical Center, South Bend, after a lengthy illness. He was born on june 6, 1906 in Tipton, In­diana, and entered Holy Cross Semi­nary (the·present Holy Cross Hall) in 1922. He made his final profession as a Holy Cross religious in 1928, graduated from the University of Notre Dame in 1929 and, after theological studies at Holy Cross College, Washington, D.C., was or­dained to the priesthood in Sacred Heart Church, Notre Dame, in 1933. 
After studying medieval philosophy at Medieval Institute of Toronto under Etienne Gilson, he returned to Notre Dame and taught in the department of philosophy from 1936 to 1949. He taught various basic courses of the cur­riculum at that time and advanced courses in medieval philosophy. Father McAvoy also taught at Notre Dame from 196I to 1965. 
From I949 to 1955 he was supe­rior of Moreau Seminary, Notre Dame, and from I955 to I96I ofHo­ly Cross College, Washington. D.C. In both capacities he was respon­sible for the formation and training of most of the Holy Cross priests or­dained during those years of numerous vocations. 
At Notre Dame, Father McAvoy served in the residence halls for eighteen years, as prefect in Alumni and Dillon Halls and as rector of Morrissey and Fisher Halls. 
From 1965 to 1972, he taught philosophy at the University of Pbrtland in Oregon. After his retire­ment from teaching, he servt:d five years in a parish in Oakland, Califor­nia before rt:turning to Corby Hall at Notre Dame. In 1978 he retired to Holy Cross Hall on St. joseph's Lake because ofillness. 
He is survived by brothers Ed­ward ofTipton, Indiana, and Brother jerome, S.M., of Dayton, Ohio. 
~
Services will be in Sacred Heart Church at 3:30 p.m., Wednesday, April 15. Reverend Leonard N. Banas, C.S.C., religious superior,...\vill officiate. Reverend James T. Burtchaell, C.S.C. will give the homi­ly. Friends may call after 3:30 p.m. today at the Corby Hall Chapel, where the wake service will be held at 7:30 p.m. Reverend Mark Fitzgerald, CS.C. of the department of economics will officiate. Burial will be in the Community Cemetery. 
Fr.john McAvoy, C.S.C. 
ATTENTION HALLS, CLUBS S ·CLASS OFFICERS­
FOOTBALL CONCESSION STAND LOTTERY APPLICATIONS are now available in Student Actiuities, 1st floor LaFortune. 
Deadline for applying is Thursday, April 16. 







Homecoming Statts NOW! Be a part of the Action Attend the Organizational meeting Tuesday, April 14 6 pm. Student Union , Lafortune Questions? Call flesty 8497 
. 
After your lastexam, whattoughquestions will you still befacing? 


W don't have your answers. But we'll listen to your questions, 
share some of our own about who we want to become and where we want to journey. For anyone who has considered the path o( priesthood. the Holy Cross Fathers· One-Year Candidate Program provides an opportunity to ask and explore the possibilities in community. 
II 
Contact: Rev. Andre Leveille. C.S.C. Vocation Director Box 541 Notre Dame. IN 46556 (219) 283-6385 
LSAT • MCAT • GRE 
GRE PSYCH • GRE 810 • MAT GMAT • DAT • OCAT • PCAT VAT· SAT • CPA • TOEFL 
MSKP • NAT'L MED BDS ECFMG • FLEX • VQE NOB • NPB 11 • NLE 
~-HIUIPUIN 
EDUCATIONAL CENTER Test Preparatoon Specialists Sonce 1938 
For 1nlormat10n. Please Call: 
-.'291 3150 

The Observer Tuesday, April14, 1981 page 4 
Aurora borealis 
' ,' Solar flare lights cosmos 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Some
:} lights did Sunday night. sion moves from east to west be­
residents from California to Tennes­
He said it was likely the lights cause it follows the setting sun.
.'' 
\ see and from South Dakota to were a "noctilucent" cloud forma­Nonhern lights are rarely seen in I ( Louisiana watched in awe as red 
tion created by the sun reflecting off the Midwest south of the CanadianI·'\ lights stretched across .the weekend cosmic dust at an altitude of more border, although they do appear in ' ! night sky, and government scientists
' than 260,000 fe~t. He said the illu-nonhern Maine. said Monday the phenomenon was 
I : 

caused by a magnetic storm that was touched offby a solar flare. Other skywatchers had differing 
Nancy adheres to
opinions on the cause ofthe lights­a staff meteorologist at McChord Air Force Base near Tacoma, Wash., said the glow likely was an optical illu­
image in autobio 
sion created by the sun reflecting off 
-
cosmic dust. INDIANAPOLIS (AP) -Nancy myself, but I had to refuse to talk 

But many of those who saw the Reagan wouldn't "let herselfgo" and much because if I stan revealing lights would have agreed with didn't even want to include her age things that the subjects of my books Sharon Finney of Great Falls, Mont., in her autobiography, says a former tell me in confidence, then I'll lose who called them "just awe-. Indianapolis man wlio co-authored credibility for future books." inspiring." the book. 
Libby called it "a hard fact of life 
"There were sheets of light," she Bill Libby, a 1945 graduate of In­that a lot ·of people in the press said. "It was like there should have dianapolis Shonridge High School, is wanted to nail Reagan during the been a sun, because you could sec best known for writing more than campaign and some of the things I these beams coming from a center fifty spons biographies in little more did say to newspapers were terribly point, only there was no light in the than ten years. The autobiography distoned." middle. "It went from a pale pink he wrote with Mrs. Reagan, "Nancy," Co-authoring a book has its own to a bright, bright red, and then was published in late 1979. special problems, not the least of these beams appeared, and they "It's not one of my best books, he­which is smothering your own point were blue. Then the red moved from cause Nancy didn't let herself go," ofview, Libby said. the eastern skies to the western Libby told columnist Tom Keating of "You have to write such a book in skies." The Indianapolis Star. "She was a words and phrases that sound like 
The lights were visible across vast very nice, decent woman, but she the subject is writing it," he said.
contimudfrom page I laws, which carries a penalty of one 
areas of the West, Midwest and felt very rigid about her public ''And ifyou are ofa different politicalto three years. Authorities released 
South, prompting thousands of calls image. 
persuasion, as
When he injected Benadryl, she them on bond. They ran. Canadian I am from the 
to police and radio stations. 
"It was very hard to get her to in­Reagans, you have to be careful not
injected Valium or a hypnotic pain border guards returned them to Il­
The National Oceanographic and 
clude many topics in the book. I to shade what they are saying so it
killer, Stadol. They loved each other, linois where they pleaded guilty and 
Atmospheric Administration in even had to argue to get her to put in becomes closer to your opinion."
fed offeach other and were destroy­were locked up in the squat, red Boulder, Colo., issued a statement her age. But the interesting thing ising each other. brick Henry CountyJail. 
saying a solar flare and resultant that when I showed her my finished
"This is a very tragic situation From his cell, Ihrig wrote toJudge magnetic storm caused the aurora draft, she took out things that madewhere a couple ofclearly dependent Jay Hanson, acknowledging he borealis to light up the night skies her look good, and that's very un­
Students
sick people are using each other to needed treatment, saying he wanted 
Saturday and Sunday as far south as usual." 
stay ill," O'Keefe said. Ihrig ended to straighten out his life, suggesting 
Oklahoma.. But independent repons Libby contacted by New
was ahis Navy career with five weeks at a he might enter a seminary. In March, said the lights were visible as far York agent after he co-authored amilitary drug tn:atment center in after four months in jail, they were 
distribute
south as Louisiana. book by james Roosevelt about
Long Beach, Calif. released to the custody of Riverside The aurora borealis, commonly Roosevelt's parents, Franklin D. andAfter his discharge last August, he Retreat, a drug rehabilitation enter 
known as northern lights, was the Eleanor Roosevelt.
and Sharon searched for a practice. in Rock Island. 
visible side of a major magnetic "We got along just fine, and for 
petitions
In Vaughn, N.M., a bank refused a Sometime after daybreak, they 
storm that wa..'i beginning to taper off about six months I visited theloan. In Hoisington, Kan., he closed were gone. Left behind were love 
Monday, NOAA forecaster Phil Reagan home once or twice a weekhis office after one week. In Flagstaff, letters, written daily· from their 
Powell said. and taped interviews with Nancy," Protesting President Reagan'sAriz., police found bloodstaim:d pil­separate cells, filed with innocent He said the magnetic storm Libby said. "Her husband was often proposed cuts of Guaranteed Stu­lows and used syringes scattered expressions. "High school stuff," 
caused some static in communica­around, but he always wanted to get dent Loans ( GSL) and Basic Educa­
about a motel room, blood smeared said State's Attorney Jeff O'Connor. 
tions but had no effect on the space 
some coffee and talk sports." tional Opportunity Grants ( BEOG ),
on the TV screen. "Adolescent." 
shuttle Columbia. He said NOAA During the 1980 presidential Notre Dame Student GovernmentThe year before, Ihrig had made a They profess undying love with was sending solar activity reports to campaign, the book began to draw 
officials will distribute petitions for
good impression on visits to clinics arrows drawn through the letter "o." 
mission control in Houston. more more jour­signatures in
and notice from student today the
in Illinois. Nobody wanted to hir~ They have hearts and kisses and the The magnetic storm began Satur­nalists, many of whom called Libby dining halls and LaFonune Student
him now. assurance -each to the other ­
day and \vas set off by energy par­
for some inside information on the Center. The ND Financial aid office"I would have had no way to that everything was bright and won­
ticles from a solar flare, rated an X-2, 
woman who might become first estimates that the proposed cuts willrecognize him on the basis of our derful and would be all right once 
recorded Friday, NOAA said. lady. 
directly affect 4,100 University stu­first meeting a few months before," they were together again. 
Powell said the lights ofthe aurora "There were calls from people dents. Further, the American Coun­
Cottage Hospital vice president On March 30, police arrested are caused when· energy particles like Mike Wallace and Sally Quinn cil on Education estimates that the
David Fleming said of his encounter Roger and Sharon Ihrig in New 
from the sun collide with air and the National Enquirer," Libby will fc:ircc
with Ihrig. "His complexion was Mexico for probation violation. reductions ';00,000 to 
'molecules high in the atmosphere. said. "They all wanted me 700,000 students to
blotchy. He was bloated. He had a They are being held in separate cells to tell drop out of 
But Col. Dave Toshia of McChord them something I hadn't put in the school and an additional 500,00 tostrange look in his eye and was as they fight extradition to Illinois, 
AFB said the lights weren't aurora book. 
700,000 will be forced to transfer toperspiring profusely." where this time each will likely face borealis because aurora borealis "I don't Ukc to duck interviews another institution to continue their
The next day, the Ihrigs were in the full sentence for the original 
doesn't travel east to west as the because I interview so many people education.
Galva. charged with violating drug drug convictions. 
• • . Landing 
"We are very interested in under­
em. 'inuedfrum page I 
standing what went on, but there is 
the completion ofa textbook orbital still no concern,'.: said spokesman flight whose problems were minor Charles Redmond. "If you define a and triumphs big. For touchdown 
major problem as one where we day. the forecast at the lakebed lan­think there might be danger to the 
-~-­
ding strip calls for clear skies and lives of the crew members, no, this little wind. "That's ready made to or­doesn't come any,vhere near being a der." said Shuttle ControL "Sounds major problem."
•
good." Young said. Things got a litte chilly during the 
Bc:cause two of the shuttle's heat astronauts' first night in the Colum­rt·sistant tiles were missing and a bia and Crippen awakened after dozc:n damaged on tht· top of the nearly eight hours slc:cp strapped in­
spacecraft. the Air force took high to the cockpit. saying, "We feel rt·solution photographs of the: more grand hut we got about ready to sensitive underside of the ship as it hreak out the long undies." 
pa..'ised over Hawaii. Shuttle control fixt:d the tem­A source said the Air Force perature problem. 
pictures showed the: underside tiles Most ofthe work assigned the two were appan:ntly all in place. a..o;tronauts was to shake down the However. NASA officials said clouds shuttle's untried systems. 
obscured the view and the photo­
Mission planners said before the graphic results were inco'nclusive. flight that just getting the ship up They said specialists h~d studied and down again safely would satisfy No, it's not the gymnastics team but some hardworking Notre video and long-lens photography of 99 percent of the objectives. Sun­Dame tracksters prlwbzg just u•hat kind of things they hat'e to go 

Stretch!
the shuttle's launch and found no day's launch satisfied half that goal through in search ofvictmy (Photo by Tim McKeogh) 
damage to the: critical tiles. spectacularly. 
_____i__________________________________________ 

Moose may not be the boss anymore, but that does not keep him 
from keeping close tabs on the Irish athletes. (Photo by Tim ;wcKeogh) 
• • .Madness 


The Observer Tuesday, April14, 1981 -page 5 
Ex-hostages receive awards tOr valor 


for their·efforts in assisting the safe return ofthe former hostages. 
Those eligible for the Award for Valor included 3 7 State Department employees, four International Com· munications Agency officials and 13 Marine guards. 
Non-Marine military personnel are ineligible for the State Depart· ment award because they were un­der Defense Department jurisdiction in Iran. 
Yesterday's ceremony was the first official reunion for former hostages since President Reagan welcomed them at the White House a week after their departure from Iran. 
Today, most of the group will be 
flown to White Sulphur Springs, W. 
Va., 250 miks from Washington. 
There they will meet with the same 
team ofdoctors which examined the 
returning hostages in West Germany 
immediately after their release from 
Iran. 
NDgrants 
Monies for Feb. top $300,000 
Grant awarqs to the University of the direction of Dr. James A. Kargol, tion for the McGee Fellowship Notre Dame for support of its assistant professor of metallurgy, Program in Economics, accepted by research, educational programs and and Dr. Nicholas F. Fiore, chairman Dr. Robert E. Gordon, vice presidnt social programs totaled $376,519 and professor of metallurgical for advanced studies. for the month of February. The engineering and materials sciences. Grants for service programs were research grants include: --S1,650 from Miles Laboratories, accepted by Rev. john A. Melloh, 
--$77,433 from the National In­Inc. for the research ofdrug delivery S.M., director of the Center for Pas­stitutes of Health for the research of by incorporating drugs within toral Liturgy, for programs en­glycolipid metabolism in tumor and liposomes, directed by Dr. Morris compassed by the Center for transformed cells, under the direc­Pollard, professor of microbiology 
Pastoral and Social Ministry: tion ofDr. Subhash C. Basu, associate and director ofLobund Laboratory. 
--S13,948 to the Institute for professor ofchemistry. Awards for educational programs Clergy Education. --572,000 fromm the Department totaled 598,923 and include: 
--$2,08Ito the Center for Pastoral of Energy for Radiation Laboratory --S25,000 from Lilly Endowment, Liturgy Training Program. research into the effects of radiation Inc. for the Faculty Open Felowship, 
--S40 I to the Center for Patoral on matter, coordinated by Dr. '81-'82, to Thomas G. Marullo, assis­Liturgy. Robert H. Schuler, laboratory direc­tant pofessor of modern and classi­·· S259 to the Religious Leaders tor and professor of chemistry. cal languages, for research in Program. ·· $36,936 from the National In­Russiam studies. 
stitutes of Health for research into ·· S23,649 from the National information transfer -enzyme ac­Science Foundation for a course for tivation and regulation -by Dr. high school biology teachers en­ECDCsets 
_Thomas L Nowak, associate profes­titled, The Web of Life -Michiana sor ofchemistry. Ecosystem as a Natural Laboratory. 
··128,688 from the National ··$21,995 from the National summer Science Foundation to research the Science Foundation for under­theory ofseveral complex variables, graduate research participation in under the direction of Dr. Wilhelm chemistry, directed by Dr. Maurice 
day camp
F. Stoll, professor of mathematics. E. Schwartz, associate professor of 
·· S 1 7, 320 from the Ohio State chemistry. University Research Foundation to , --119,799 , from the National 
The Early Childhood Develop­
research the mnemonic organiza­Science foundation for under· ment Center at Saint Mary's will of­tion of social information in small graduate research participation in 
fer a day camp program this 
groups by Dr. John B. Pryor, assistant biology, directed by Dr. Harvey A. 
summer. This recreational programprofessor ofpsychology. Bender, professor ofbioloRv. 
is designed for children ofthe Notre ·· S14,900 from the National ··15,000 for a program to attract 
Dame -Saint Mary's communityScience Foundation to research the' minority students to major in geol­from ages 3 to 5, and 6 to 9. Both full
theory ofproximity effect tunneling ogy, coordinated by Rev. Michael J. 
time and part time enrollment
by Dr. Gerald B. Arnold, assistant Murphy, C.S.C., chairman and as­schedules are available. Call Terri
professor ofphysics. sociate professor of earth sciences, 
Kosik, Director at 284-4150 or 291­·· SI2,000 from the Welding and Dr. William C. James, assistant 3875 to. receive information on
Research Council for studey of professor ofearth sciences. 
registration.
hydrogen absorption ofsteel, under ··13,500 from the McGee Founda-
Press accepts tnanuscripts 
~onm and f,Qowe~ [11 tlte 
The National Poetry Press an· nounced that the closing date for the 
CBa~eme11t o-~ $fevUans submission of manuscripts by col­lege studenrs is May 1. Any student attending either junior or senior col­
~pecwQ 011 CJ;2ooeg lege is eligible to submit his verse. There is no limitation as to form or 
Sf 2.50 peh dooe11 theme. Shorter works are preferred because of space limitations. Each 
(any coQO/l allai~ab~e e~cept white) poem must be typed or printed on a separate sheet. and must bear the 
aQoo ~peeiD.Q d~runt 
name and homt· address of the stu­dent, and the college address as well. 
on Qaltge quantihj oW.~ 
:\tanuscripts should bt· sent to the office of the pn·ss: :-.lational Poetry 
CaQQ 284-5891 o~ gtop b4 
Press. Box 21 H Agoura, Ca. 91.30 I. 

Nancy relaxes after sharingpresident's ills 
WASHINGTON (AP) She to Time magazine, "not be a bother brought him a robe and slippers. She to anybody." The tears came later, brought him jellybeans, and ham­after the reality struck that someone burger soup, and brownies and had wanted her husband dead. messages from friends and get-well Friends say she was torn, too, by posters from children. guilt that she had not been with him. 
She flirted with him, inviting him She lost her appetite and had trouble for a "disco date" and then leading sleeping. him down the hospital corridor fr Two weeks after the attempted as­dinner in her sitting room. She cried sassination, it's still not quite busi­with him when they read a tetegram ness as usual in the Executive from old friend Jimmy Stewart: "I Mansion's second floor living quar­would have taken ~hat bullet." ters. But after her daily hospital vigil, 
During the 12 days he was Mrs. Reagan now is said by her press hospitalized with a bullet wound in secretary, Sheila Patton, to be "quite his left lung, Nancy Reagan canceled happy, relaxed and finally at ease. virtually every task as the nation's She wanted him home." first lady -and concentrated purely Mary Jane Wick, one of the first on being the president's. But she has lady's closest friends, said that Mrs. always said her overriding duty, Reagan "seems like herself again," simply, is "to be with him." Reagan is expectd to spend almost 
Since the March 30 attempt on all of his time this week in the man­her husband's life, Mrs. Reagan is sion's living quarters, not in the Oval said to have whirled through a cycle Office. His aides and hers send ofemotions. memos and notes upstairs, but there 
In the first harrowing hours, she seems to be a general agreement at was frightened but determined to the White House to leave them remain controlled and, as she put it alone. 
~~ l\.ie1)a~li 
Styling for men and fH~~MA FUS~ women who like to 
WASHINGTON (AP)-Secretary of State Alexander M. Haig Jr. on Monday presented the State Depart· ment's Award for Valor to 54 former American hostages in Iran, praising them for perseverance under "exceptionally dangerous cir­cumstances." 
L. Bruce I.aingen, the ranking U.S. diplomat in Iran at the time of the hostage-taking, accepted the award "with great humility on behalf of all my colleagues, conscious of the fact that acts ofheroism and valor o_n the part of all the services represented here today take place often un­rewarded and unnoiced." 
Thirty-four ex-hostages, looking_ rested and relaxed 12 weeks after their departure from Iran, were at the ceremony. Afterward, the for­mer hostages were heading to a West Virginia resort and medical checkups on their readjustment to freedom. 
Haig said the nation owes a debt of gratitude to the former hostages for service carried out under "unusually difficult, inhumane and exceptional­ly dangerous circumstances." 
He also conferred the State Department's Distinguished Honor Award to four department officials 
The medical team will conduct three days of workshops with the former captives on lessons learned during their 444-day ordeal and on coping with their return to normal lives. 
The Best in 
Aged·Steaks 
120 N. Main Street Downtown, Mishawaka 
255-7737 
for reservations lunch 11:00 A.M. to 2:00P.M. Dinner 5:00P.M. Clos~d Sundays & Holidays 


I
t was one of those hm, humid Florida nights where your breath hung heavy in the air and it was always hot and you always wound up getting sweaty no matter how much deodorant you had sprayed or rolled or powdered upon your person. 
I lay on my back, which hurt, halfasleep. I felt halfalive. The small, wooden boat bucked me to the left again. A wave's crest broke over the bow again. I began to pray. 
Ryan, tall Ryan, crouched, trembling, in the boat's cor­ner and tried, as best he could, to keep dry. 


v 

l t 
f 
r 
( 
~· 
Rick Hertnida 
We were adrift. This was not good The Atlantic Ocean is too big an ocean and we were adrift in too small a boat. 
"We're going to die." Ryan was a definite realist. I did not reply and closed my eyes. Ryan crawled back into his damp comer and covered himselfwith a soggy RollingStone. We had now been adrift five hours. 
With any luck, I wondered, we would make landfall in Santiago de Cuba, or, if the wind kept howling, Ireland's northern coast. 
In Cuba, I would be tried as an American spy and probably shot. In Ireland, I would be forcibly fed large kegs filled with rich Guinness Stout. Neither fate particularly appealed to me. I continued to pray. 
"How did we ever get involved in this?" Ryan mumbled in dis­pleasure. His soaked Rolling Stone lay in shreds on the boat's wet, creaking deck. 
"I don't know," I answered. I lied. I knew what had brought us here. As the codeine eased the pain in my mouth, I recalled the past week's sordid events... 
My timing had been horrendous. It was spring break, I was tired of law school, and my wisdom teeth -like weeds in a baseball infield ­had to be pulled. 
It was a struggle between extreme pain and extreme fear. Pain prompted a dental appointment. Fear prompted a "pre-operative," two-day drinking binge. 
I stumbled into the dentist's office. Ryan propped me up on the ominous dental chair. "Listen," Ryan coolly said, "I had all of mine pulled and I didn't feel a thing." . 
Ryan opened his mouth to show me his four, little, neat extractions. Instead, I was pleasantly greeted by a whirlwind ofStolichnaya. Ryan had been drinking for hours. 
Sobering quickly, I noticed that Dr. Bertram Goodheart, the dental surgeon, had walked in. Goodheart seemed likable -impeccably "medical" in his white frock. 
I was terrified, but Goodheart made the operation something to look foward to. "Hey, forget eating, forget the beach -this is a lot more fun." He momentarily turned his back. Ryan poured another shot ofvodka down my throat. 
The dentist turned his back once too often. I looked forward to the operation. "Yes, Doc, pull everythingmit!" Ifoamed at the mouth. The nurse wiped my dribblings off Dr. Goodheart's frock. 
Ryan whined with laughter. An empty Stolichnaya bottle lay at his feet. A long rubbery tube dangled from his lips. The tube lead to a khaki-colored tank labled: helium. U-Qij 
Tuesday, April 14, 1981 -page 6
eatures 
Spring Breaks Eternal: 
"I hope you haven't smoked or drank anything in poured it down my parched the last six hours," asked Goodheart's nurse. throat. My lips never felt the liq­"Why is that important?" I was very alarmed. My left uid; it spilt over my neck and 
side shook. It was my body's way of informing me of 
chest. I ran to the bathroom to sheer terror and certain shock. 
grab a towel and caught a glimpse The nurse smiled and explained: "Well, when 
of myself in a hanging oval mir­you're put under, the anesthetic may put some ofyour 
ror. My reflection filled it. I"was a involuntary muscles to sleep. Your lungs may fill with 
cross between "The Elephant
water." 
Man" and "Mr. Potato Head." I I could drown. I pictured ol' Dad reading the morn­
wanted to fly to Rio. ing paper's headline: "Law Student Drowns in Dentist 
Ryan strolled in a little while Chair." 
later clad in a "Hefty" trash bag I looked for Ryan. He lay, unconscious, on an adjoin­
and no more. Some kids, sensinging couch. 
Ryan's inability to fight back, had The doctor stuck my left arm with as many pins as "rolled" him. They took the there are on New York Yankee uniforms. "Do you clothes offhis back. want me to count to 100?" "Dont bother," he smiled, 
The telephone's abrupt ringing "you'll be out in 30 seconds." 
interrupted Ryan's shower. It was I began feeling very cheery. I was happy with the for me and it was Her. World around me; a dental surgeon who resembled She was a Spanish beauty with 
Gregory Peck in The Boys From Brazil, an unconscious, helium-filled Notre Dame undergrad, a smiling nurse. Florida is beautiful. "You know, Doc, I won my first case..." 
My last words were about Notre Dame Law School. I had gonea true soldier. Murphy and Rice would be proud. 
I awoke in my rusting car's back seat. Ryan sang "Sympathy for the Devil" while at the wheel. He was about six octaves too high. The helium hadn't worn off. 
-Features Editor 
0 

We drove toward Key Biscayne. Nixon lived there, as did Somoza. Key Biscayne is a haven for both the indicted and the unindicted. It was America's "Elba." 
Ryan and I settled in a comfortable little bungalow only a few feet away from the cool, Gulfwaters. 
Ryan immediately ran toward the beach. He yelled "surfs up," took his pants off, and plunged in. I went up the 16 or 17 gravel steps to my apartment. 
It was late afternoon and the sky was an orange hue and I wanted something cool to ease the pain and quell my thirst. 
I mixed a "Cuba Libre" and 
deep, dark eyes and beautiful dark hair that would reflect the sun's rays and would make you want to touch her hair -and want to have all ofHer. 
I slowly pulled the cotton swabs out of my mouth, insuring that I woundn't sound like "The Godfather, Parts I and II." 
Her clear voice came over the receiver. Nervous 
anticipation came over my wracked body. 

Tuesday, April14, 1981 -page 7
The Observer 
A Fantastic Voyage 

"Rick?" She asked, "would youJike to see a concert tonight?" 
"Yes," I gasped. She wanted a quiet evening and no talk of past, present or future romances. I was too drugged to differ. 
"Great, why don't you come by at seven?" 
"Yes," I gasped. 
As I hung the phone up, my stereo blasted The 1812 Overture. I sat down and sipped a dry martini. 
"How can you expect to go out like that?" Ryan lay on the terraza, drinking another pina colada. The waves were breaking near shore 
Illustrations by PatByrnes 
and it was hard talking. 

breakfast and gathering fishing tackle. Sea gulls con­
"Well," I yelled, "I took my 
tinually interrupted my efforts, picking off what food
medicine. It's working. I feel no 
their little beaks could carry.
pain." I almost finished perfect" 
Ryan stumbled insans loinclothc, ten minutes later.
ing a Duke of Windsor knot on 
I did not want an explanation. We were ready to go.
my polyester tie. It was not an 
We headed south, to the southernmost tip of the
easy task. 
United States. Pirates once plundered there, the Army
This was probably my last 
once fired missiles there, Hemingway once wrote
chance with Her. I had known 
there.
Her, though, for a very long time 

Florida thrusts like a guiding thumb,
and tonight she was all there was 
To the southern islands ofrumba and rum,
-and I wanted no more. 
To the lands ofmystery that lie below, 
I waved good bye to Ryan. He 
To the placesI knowI am going to go...
was busy casting a shore rod. He 
We were almost there. Ryan and I had downed the
was all settled for a night's fish­
first Cuervo bottle. We felt warm, happy, and good. It
ing. 
was"going to be another very beautiful day and to that,
Fortunately, the car was run­
we drank.
ning well. The swelling around 
"We'll be hitting Key Largo soon." Key Largo is the
my mouth had gone down and 
island where Humphrey Bogart and Lauren Bacall
the analgesics were keeping the 
"No," she flatly replied. I admired Her. She wa.S a master of blunt­ness. 
I pleaded in the car. I pleaded in the concert. My mouth began to swell up to its primordial size. "Please, don't compete with the music," complained a patron. 
"Madame, I am missing my teeth." The elderly woman excused her­self. What could I do? Beg for mercy? It didn't work with my Law profes­sors after first semester finals and it probably wouldn't work here. 
A compromise? Yes, but on what? There was no exit. 
"Will you consider seeing me again?" This was my last shot. 
"No." She had the tenderness ofa Sherman tank in high gear. There were no more appeals. Only the ACLU could save me now and I didn't know their regional headquarter's number. I decided to retreat. Suppressing an insatiable urge to punch her out, I quietly walked away. 
Heading for my car, I knew what I wanted and where to get it. 
"To the Key!" 
I kicked off my shoes and headed to the shore, carrying two bottles of 'ol Joe Cuervo. I walked through the cool sand and it felt good sifting through my toes. 
I noticed some commotion down the beach. The sound ofcalypso drums and reggae music filled my ears. A crowd of people stood gathered around a fire. There was limbo dancing. 
And there was Ryanlimbo dancing. His arched body was under the flimsy, bent bamboo shoot held by two bare-breasted German women. 
It was three in the morning and Ryan was doing the limbo with a German tour group from Frankfurt. "Ryan, grab your loincloth and get over here." I was trying very hard not to laugh. 
Ryan made his way to where I was standing. "Aufweidersehen," giggled his German friends. 
"Ryan, listen to me, we're going to Key West." Ryan wasn't paying attention. His eyes were glued to the liquor I carried. 
"Hey Rick man, you O.K?" He grew suddenly concerned. 
"Yes, I'm all right, but we're going to Key West-noW!" 
"Sure, but can I bring Inga along?" Ryan smiled. 
"Inga?" Inga stood at Ryan's side. She was a petit blonde who made her affection for Ryan known. Her body was wrapped around Ryan's left leg. 
Back at the apartment, I busied myself making 
pain in check. 
I knew not to expect too much from Her. It would take too much talking, too much effort, and too much pain to win Her back. And yet, I wanted to. 
"I really think we should talk," I said as She got in the car. For a man without a mouth, this was a remarkable request. She stared out the window. 
"I mean, don't you?" I sounded apologetic. I had interrupted her obviously intent stare. 
romanced, intrigued, and shot their way out of another Hemingway plot. 
To the mystery cities and haunted seas 
OftheSpantshMain and the Caribbees. 
Where the ghosts ofColumbus andPirates Bold 
Seek the islands ofSpice and the Streets 0 f Gold. 
I finally pulled into "Alabama jack's," a little watering hole leaning, like the famous Italian tower, towards the water. Some say the next big hurricane could finish the job. 
I I 
"Well, Ryan, twenty bucks gets us an outboard and 
l
bait for the day." Ryan cautiously eyed the little wooden boat we had just rented. "Are you sure this is safe?" 
1
Raul, the resident "old salt" and dock manager, 
~ 
reassured him: "I would go in it meself, lad." Raul was 
~ 
missing his left leg below the knee and wore rotting 
l ~ 
wooden teeth. Raul smiled his toothless smile and waived "Adios." We putt-putted out ofthe bay; heading for Key Largo, 
~ 
Flamingo Key, and Steamboat Channel. Ryan was at 
I 
the wheel. I was worried. The sky was azure blue and the tranquil ocean called us on. lawschool didn't matter here. Failure and 
i 
success, Contracts and Torts, didn't matter out here. Only the wind and the waves and the sun mattered. I felt very good that spring morning. 
Our happiness was short-lived. Ryan spotted 
several large "crates" bobbing just aft ofus. Steering a 
closer approacch, I noticed the "crates" were, in 
reality, bales. Bales ofMarijuana. 
"They're bales!" Ryan's shout was muffled by the 
loud pops of automatic gun fire and a plane engine's 
reverberating hum. 
A single engine, light blue Cessna, equipped with pont?ons, swished overhead. A slug shattered our polystyrene tackle box. .I covered my face. "Jesus, we're being shot at," Ryan kept his head glued to the boat's deck. Another bullet cracked the outboard's fiberglass over. 
Six bales of marijuana bobbed to and fro in the drink; less than thirty yards from our rickety boat. 
"Start the engine, for God's sake!" I was scared. Ryan pulled the starter cord. The engine turned over and we motored away at an alarming speed. Our little boat shook and threatened to split at the seams. My mouth began to bleed and I reached for a codeine tablet. 
We stopped roughly twelve miles east ofKey Largo. The engine died. It was a miracle that we hadn't. Ryan spent an anguishing hour trying to get the small Mer­cury outboard to kick over. No luck. There was little one could do with a Swiss Army Knife. 
"What the hell's gonna happen to us?" Ryan sat in the corner, completely drenched. The Rolling Stone lay on the deck, shredded. "I guess we'll just have to wait out the night." We settled in opposite ends ofthe boat, hoping to just stay afloat. 
I couldn't sleep and decided to fashion a crude sail from my old wool shirt and two discarded fishing rods. I tried, as best I could, to keep a steady course using our sole oar as a rudder. I didn't know where I was going. 
With dawn came our breakfast. I had peeled some bait shrimp and put them to dry in the sun. We had no water, only a little lukewarm Sprite. Everything was rationed accordingly. 
Roughly at noon, March 26, Ryan spotted land. His lips were severlycracked, but he still managed a smile. As we moved closer, I could discern figures running on the white beach. It was funny though, I suddenly felt very cold and very dizzy. I was going to fall. 
I awoke on dry land. I was surrounded by many naked and beautiful women. I thought I had died and gone to Heaven. As they carried me to their infirmary. I read a sign on the way in: "Welcome to Club Mediter· ranean -Where the gentle people play." I shut my tired eyes. Ifthis wasn't Heaven, it was close enough. 


~-~ ·. ' I 
I I I 
1 

The Observer Tuesday, April14, 1981 -page 8 
our ea wit soun 
I 
~ 
I 
' 
·,.•Jr",C.~·",i'l.';.':\:(~~~ ;.~ ,.:1i
. ; . 
. . ... .-.'_ ··:.,.. ::.._. .<~~ 
.¥ ..... <~f :~ ~ -~. . . . . -~-· 
. .
... . . :.. .. . . '-· .. . .. '"' .· , 
:;-~ ··.-··· ·.·. ; ... · . ~. 
. . ~./--~·: _.... ... ~·; '.: ~~· . 
One time promotional savings!· 
-' 
The Magnafine cassette tape 
I 
line is coming to the Notre Dame campus, to kick off their national campaign. 
April 13, 14, 15. From 9:00 A.M. to 4:00P.M. 
" .. 
exclusively in the Student Center. Offering Magnafine II cassette tapes at outstanding savings!. . . . We will be playing your favorite sounds. 
The -ObserYer= 

Tuesday, April14, 1981 -page 9 
Molarity Michael Molinelli 



ACROSS 28 ltcould 1 Nonsense burn easily 5 Cleft 31 Exchange
The Daily Crossword 
9 Biblical premiums 
tower 32 Tie the 14 Hodgepodge knot 15 Oh,woe! 33 -Rio, Tex. 16 Mother of 34 Misfortunes 

Lavinia 35 Poorgolf 17 Nonsense score 19 Flower 36 Italian of N.H. port 20 Last 37-de plume 
year's Jrs. 38 Big name in 21 One: Ger. Argentina 22 Baby's walk 39 Count­
23 Forearm 40 Nonsense bone 42 Chopped 24 Commonor 43 Buenos-horse 44 Look tor 25 Nonsense prey 
Monday's Solution R A c EI s p R I Gl8 L 0 8 
A G 0 G P 0 I S E L A 0 E P U T~ E S F 0 0 T I N I T
T E E E A S T I N A N E C A K E P 0 R K SABOTS TUBA ARM A 8 E 0 M A S 0 N C 0 0 
E V E L E A K Y H 0 0 0 MET 
E~TS C.
A R Y H 0 A A P A R T L I E 0 T E A BEL IIVEONEiEARS
E R A T A 0 0 E R L U S H 
4/14/81
© 1981 by Chicago Tribune-N.Y. News Synd. Inc. 
L U R E N E E 0 Y A T T Y 
All Rights Reserved 4/14/81
, 
45 Heal,as 
bones 47 Cougar 48 "I came, 
1-... " 51 Adak 
native 52 Modicum 54 Ala­55 The hairy 
one 56 Nonsense 57 Abundant in 
Mississippi 58 Chinese club 59 Senectuous 
DOWN 1 Socks 2 Genusof 
swans 3 Tastes '4 Dance 5 City in 
Wisconsin 6 Miss Massey 7 Damaging 
spray 8 Invite 9 Nonsense 
10 Included 
with 11 Nonsense 12 And others: 
abbr. 13 Frilly stuff 18 Cheers 

Catnpus 
•lunch 
and dinner -financial aid petition sign-up, dining halls and Iafortune. 

•7,9 
p.m. film, "the robe,"spons: nd film club, engr. aud., St. 

•7 
p.m. -film, "monsieur ver· doux," spons: english dept., an­nenberg aud., SI. 

•7 
p.m. -auditions, an tolstal talent show, in the Nazz. 

•7,9 
p.m. -registration for an tostal canoe races, call 1536 or 1505. 

•s 
p.m. -two open theatre plays by megan terry, chautau­qua. 

•B 
p.m. -theatre, "equus," dir. 

•9 
p.m. -meeting, for all stu· dents moving off-campus, little theatre Iafortune, spons: off­campus commission. 


by  brian  w·Jlfe,  wash.  hall.,  
spons:  dept.  of  comm.  and  
theatre.  

Doonesbury 
Garry Trudeau 

C'MoN, K/0/ 
7H£3 GUYS Me !JC RiGHTWITH WAITING/ 'f{}{}, SIR. t£T 
22 Towel fabric 
23 Saucers in the sky 24 Ambulance 
item 25 Emulate Manet 26 Eskimo 
shelter 27 Hollywood moguls 
28 Bundleof twigs 29 Eagle's 
nest 30 Worked at 32 Philippine 
Muslims 35 Cap 36 Woody fiber 38 Certain 
sulfide 39 Corny 41 lnfinitesi· 
mal 42 Nonsense 44 "To err 
is-" 45 Speed 46 High notes 47 Mexicali 
coin 48 Like a bug 
in a rug 49 Asian tree 50 Unite 52 Collection 53 Arab cloak 

I 
I 
The Observer Tuesday, Apri114, 1981 -page 10 
Louis familiar figui-e 
until the end 
LAS VEGAS, Nev. (AP) -Joe Sunday and died ofcardiac arrest at a Louis never needed an introduction hospital shortly afterwards. when he attended a fight here; the Funeral arrangements are pen­
crowd always sensed his arrival. And ding. he always received two standing "He was a wonderful man, a great ovations -the first when he was fighter and he fought to the end," wheeled to his ringside space; the said Louis' wife Martha. "He's been 

other when his presence was formal­sick for a long time and never com­ly announced. plained. He enjoyed people and he 
The thunderous, drawn-out ap­enjoyed his kids, but death is final plause Louis received when he and what else can you say?" showed up for one of the frequent The White House issued a state­fights in this boxing capital, the ment in President Reagan's name thousands of photographs he posed eulogizing Louis as "more than a for with lesser luminaries, attest to sports legend. the esteem in which he was held. "His career was an indictment of 
La<;t Saturday night was no dif­racial bigotry and a source of pride 
ferent. As Louis was wheeled into and inspiration to millions of white the sports pavilion at Caesars Palace and black people around the world," prior to the Larry Holmes-Trevor the president said, Berbick heavyweight title fight, the "Out of the ring, he was a con­
crowd began to stand up, straining siderate and soft-spoken man; inside to see. The spontaneous applause the ring, his courage, strength and · spread until more than 4,000 ~eople consummate skill wrote a unique 
I were on their feet, clapping, whis­and unforgettable chapter in sports tling and cheering for the former history," Reagan said. heayvweight champion. Later, be­tween fights, Louis was announced Louis had suffered a ·stroke and from the ring and the ovation rose later underwent heart surgery in anew. 1977 and was confined to a wheel­
• • • Blache Fourteen hours later, the Brown chair. Despite his infirmity he was a Bomber was dead. familiar figure at many fights and Louis, 66, was stricken at his home other sports events. Greg Hlache has harbored ~ ve1. Greg Blache is more than a football
continuedfrom page 12 
special dream for most of his life, a coach, it's accurate. He is a caring tions difficult. But most importantly, dream shared by many, but realized and compassionate man who takes a he wanted to prove that he could by only a few select men. genuine interest in the young men coach and recruit at other schools "My goal in life, since I have he coaches, and he tries his best to • • • Szajko just as successfully as he had at become involved in coaching, is to teach the players the same things
1 Notre Dame. Despite his eagerness be the head coach at the University Ara Parseghian impressed upon him 
I Baseball by spenomg the summer 
for a change, Blache found it hard to of Notre Dame," he said purposeful­several years ago. ' continuedfrom page 12 playing for Orleans, a team in the leave the place where he had spef!t ly. "Each time things get rough for "If I just taught football, I don't "We were rivals in high school," Cape Cod league. 
one third of his life. me, I just suck it up or else I know I'll think I'd be in this business," Blache he says, "but we are very close now. Gallo calls this league "as close to 
"I love Notre Dame dearly and it never reach that goal." confesses. "Anybody can teach the We fit the mold of this team very minor league baseball as you can get.
wa<; w~ry difficult to leave. But I had X's and O's, but the one thing'that well together. We can do a lot of and Szajko is anxious to get started, 
I , come to a crisis in my life; I almost sets Notre Dame coaches apart from things because ofour speed, both at just to see what life as a professional
felt like I was marching in place, and the rest is that they're not football
We ~e _iust going the plate and in the field." baseball player is really like. 
my self-image wa<;n't what it should coaches, they're people coaches. 
Baseball being as much of an Ifthe summer lifestyle doesn't suit 
have been. I didn't really want to · We're not in this to teach them how
to be the best American dream as Mom and apple him, he'll probably turn to the busi­
1 
leave Notre Dame, but I felt I had to to score the most touchdowns or 
pie, every youngster at one time or ness world, where he can put the 
do something." gain the most yards, we're mainly in anothet: bas dreamed of playing in accounting degree he should earn
/. So Rlachc returned home to New that we can be.' it to try and help the young men I the major leagues. Szajko is no ex­next spring to use. 
Orleans a<; an assistant at Tulane Uni­become better people, to take the 
ception. But all ofthat is a long way off. His
-1 versity. and wa<; one of the prime things they learn on the football field "Playing in the major leagues has primary task right now is to help his .. movers in transforming that once When most people set such high and apply them to life. And my fon­
been a lifetime goal of mine," says Irish teammates come to a success­
J. downtrodden program into a com­goals for themselves, 'it is usually dest dream would to be able to affect the man voted the best defensive ful conclusion of a season whichpetitive team. After working tbere in more wishful thinking than anything · a young man the way Ara affected
) player on last year's squad. "If I had started so dismally.
relative anonymity for five years, else. But in Blache's case, it results me."
I to pick a team, I would· say that I
Blache was quite surprised to hear from a strong inner drive to be the When it comes to talking about would like to play for either the Reds That means that he'll have to con­from newly hired head coach Gerry best and a genuine beliefthat he can the greatness and unique qualities of 
or the Yankees -it used to be the tinue doing all the things he has Faust. accomplish anything he works hard NO(re Dame, Blache would give Ger­Cubs until they traded everyone done so far: play good defense, con­"I didn't know Gerry at the time enough for. He teac_hes this same ry Faust a good run for his money. his terror on

away. But if I get drafted, any team tinue reckless the and, to be quite honest with you, I type ofphilosophy, this desire to ex­He has had the opportunity to see 
would be just great." basepaths, and, of course, the little 
didn't even believe it was him on the cel, to his running backs. what other schools are like, and so . Szajko is going to prepare for a things.
phone. I thought it wao; some of the "Things like gaining 1,000 yards he can say without reservation that possible career in Major League Like hitting for power. 
guys on the staff at Tulane pulling really aren't important to us. We there is indeed something special my leg. When I finally did realize want to be the best that can be. We about the Notre Dame athlete. that it was Gerry Faust, I stood up at want to use the talents.the Lord gave "Compared to other athletes from 
i j attention, my ears perked up, and I us to the best of our abilities. If we around the contry, they're in a class ' J listened l'e~v carefully." turn out to be the best backfield that by themselves. None even come I_ ! And so Blache's "second career" Notre Dame has ever had, fine. If close to the Notre Dame athlete as a 
at ;'1./otrt: Damt: had begun. we're the worst, but we're doing our person, as being a class person." 
Although Blacht' eagerly accepted best, then we're pleased with that. In addition to praising the virtues Faust's offer. he never thought he We're just going to be the best that of the Notre Dame athlete, Blache is would be rt:turning to Notre Dame we can be." quick to recognize that these under stH.:h circumstances. You see, If one gets the impression that characteristics are also shared by the 

'/ \ 
) 
.f 
I 
{ 
I 
' 
1 
l
I ) 
~ 
j 
r 
( 
\ 
non-athlete. "Right now we're talking about the athletic program. but if we were
OBSERVER SPORTS STAFF 

Reminder:. 
This week's meeting is. T01V1MORROW (not Thursday) at 6.: 30PM. 
talking about chemistry students, or engineering students, it would be the same thing. The one thing that sets Notre Dame apart is that there's a bond here, a specialness...that everybody else wishes they had. and they don't. The success we have in the athletic program wao; born on this campus. Our successes are just carry-overs." 
And. as often happens when great men speak of those things they cherish most, tears formed in Greg Blache's eyes, and his voice became a whisper. 
"This place...the people here...they just make you feel super. You just feel super...this is the greatest place in the world. 
Some may say the greatness of Notre Dame is due to her athletes, others may say the student body. But most a<;suredly, if it were not for such great leaders as Greg Blache, Notre Dame would be just another school. 


Tuesday, April14, 1981 -page 11
Sports Brie s 
~~~~~r.=======~==========~~~
r by The ObJert't'r and The Asrooated Prnr 'U~w;·'BOOKSTORE ®.f Stepan 3 Step.nl
tffillfif .(t:i{:;;W -4:00-Pontius Pilate & the Nailbeaters v. Big Or-6:00-Masters of Disaster v. The Good. the Bad . 
Notre Dame's Sailing Club participated in the. 
Ohio State Invitational Regatta this past weekend. Ohio Wesleyan finished first in the 13-school fleet. Michigan was second and the Irish finished third. For Notre Dame, skipper Greg Fisher sailed in the "A" Division with Carol Silva as crew. They finished fifth overall. In the "B" Division, skipper Jay Kiley competed for Notre Dame with Christop­her Hussey as crew. They finished third overall. This weekend, the club travels to Ann Arbor to compete in the Area A eliminations. -The Observer 
A Golf Tournament has been added to the list of An Tostal activitks this spring. The nine-hole tourney will be played on Tuesday, April 21 on the Burke Memorial Golf Course. There will be separate divisions for men and women and prizes will be given in each. Prizes also will be awarded in a "Closest-to-the-Pin" competition on one of the par-three holes. To register, call Tim at 1.387 or 1392. Green fees will be-collected when you tee off on April 21. -The Obsen'er 
The deadline for signupsfor the upcoming inter­
hall outdoor t'rack meet and golf tournament is today. You may regis­ter by calling the interhall office at eithet:, 781 Sor 6,1 00 or by stopping by the office at the ACC. The track meet will"be held on Thursday, April 23, on the Monogram Track at Cartier Field, while the golf tournament can he played at your own convenience at the Burke Memorial course. No signups will be accepted after S p.m. today. 
The Observer 
Referees for Bookstore Basketball are needed. Any certified basketball official interested in one of these paid positions 
•.;hould contact tee Manfred at 7820 or 6100. -The Observer 
Notre Dame golfers won the team title of the In­dianapolis Intercollegiate GolfTournament Monday while Ball State's 
B.G. Winings won the individual crown in a playoff with Bob Horak and Tim Sacheck of the Irish. Winings, a sophomore who was run­nerup in the competition last year, shot a 74/71-145 to outdistance the field. His 71 was one under par for the Eagle Creek Golf Course. 
His par 4 on the first extra hole gave him the Utle. Notre Dame golfers totaled 772 to lead the 12-team field. Ball State was second with 786, followed by Cincinnati with 786, DePauw 790, Wisconsin· Whitewater 807, Wabash 831, ISU-Evansville 836, Indiana Central 855, Butler 864, Rose-Hulman 867, Franklin 876, and Eastern Illinois 
876. -The Observer 
SECOND ROUND Ye8terdeV"I RHUHI 
Step8r11 Golden Gnffins over The Marty Weiners by 4 Lovely Bottoms over Mayor Parent & the Strip­searchers by 13 M D. Chapman & the John Lennon Fan Club ovEH We can't play B-ball, But We Know How to Score by 14 
Step1n2 Nell's RC. M.P.S. over Toxic Shockers by 6 Jack Schmtdt & the One-Eyed Hoagtes over Henry Cabbo1t Henhouse Ill & the Superchickens by 13 Larry & Gary Wolf ... ? oyer Sons of Thunder by 5 
Stepan3 Tequila Wh•te Ltghtning over Rocket J. SqUirrel & Hts Flymg C trcus 26-24 (OT) Back to Reality over Lennon. Chapman & Hts 3 Good Shots by 4 
Stepan4 Keon·s Boundry Spanners over DDS Squad by 11 Fat Chances over Frank LaGrotta. Craig Chval & 3 Other... 24·22 (OT) 
· Bookltore 9 Visual Orgasm over Sid and the Seamen by 13 WEB's End over 4 Cool Guys and Grant by 13 The Assasstns over The Fighting Koalas by 9 
Book8tore 1 0 Rockets m our Pockets overS. Judy & the 5 Volts by 5 
S. Judy and the Shock Absorbers over Doctors of Brick by 5 Mtnt-Maggte and the Gtant-killers over Proverbtal Socie\al Sponges by 10 
Lyons11 • 
4:45 -J. Kleme & the Forced Entnes v Re­classtfied Nads 5 30 -Fr. Rtehle's Cheap Cigars v. A. Parent. Mark Fatum &. 6:30-The Pretenders v. William Futtbuckly & the Greek Intellectuals 
Lyons12 4:45-Atlanta Joe ... v. Gone With the Wind 5:30-Legaltzed Abortion & the Coat hanger Kids 
v. Skywalker & the Circle Jerkers 6:30-Solemn But Deadly v. Orange Skimasked 
Duck Molesters END OF SECOND ROUND 
THIRD ROUND Today'aGamee 
Stepan 1 4:00-Hill's Angels v. The Celibates 4 45-BYE v Flight 6:00-Mtnt-Maggte & the Giant Killers v. Capt. Vaseline & the Slippery Strokes 6:45-Assa'Ssins v1 John Murphy's Sit me Train 
Stepen2 4:00-S. Judy, Dan Sills & Wichita St. v. Dorothy Straiten & the In-Your-Face Kids 4:45-The Interferons v. tst Round Losers 
6:00 -Cotton Pony Tony & the K... Kickers v. Chuck Connor Real Estate Riflemen 
6:45 -William Futtbuckly & the Greek Intellec­tuals v. Oran:'8 Ski-masked Duck Molesters . gan &His Bouncing Balls 
4:45 -Chipigula & the Debauchers v. The Sophisticados 6:00-The T. P. 's v. Slaughterhouse 5 6:45-The Bricklayers v. Spoofhounds 
Stepan4 . 4:00-Team A v. I. M. Sttff Erectton Firm 4:45-Stooges v. Chainsaw & Hts 4 Beavers 6:00-Takee-Outee &the Weasel Bleeders v. Put it in the Hole 
6:45-Logan Leapers v. Humor attheE•pense of Others 
Stepan 5 6:00-69ers v. Outck Shot & the Embarrassing Stains 
6:45-Aooravated Assault II v. Oana·s Demons 
Stepan& 6:00-Fubar v. 801 St. Lou1s St. Burnouts 
6:45 -J. Arthur & the Travelling Hose Bags v. Toxic Shock Syndrome & the 4 Aelyables 
and the Ugly. and ... 6:45-McNamara's Bandv. S. Judy'sElectricCo. 
Stepan I 6:00-Momsson Schwartzer & the Toxtc Wastes 
v. Or. Dunkenstein & the 4 Skins 
6:45 -CF v. Sister Polanski's Primary Day School 
Booketore8 4:00-Oral Stx v. Cocoon's Surf Squad 4:45-4 Odds & an End v. A Touch of Class 6:00-Head Over Heels v S. Judy & the Electnc Shocks 
6 45-T B. Express v Vanilla Thunders 
Book8tore 10 4:00-Fameless Outcasts v. Aherne Machtne 
4:45 -Gtmme Hell v. Str. Vtc's Eplorers II 
6:00 -Atomtc Drops v. Uncle Johns Band 6:45-Proud Father & the 4 Uncles v. Return of the Nutmeggers 
Lyone11 4:00-Cosmo Car bones v. Rockets m our Pock· ets 
4 45-Gone wtlh the ~tnd v. Skywalker and the 
Ctrcle Jerkers 6:00-Flutd Force v. We Jammm· in the Name of the Lord 
6:45-Wrecked em As a Whole v Let's Wm One for... 
L•,ona12 4:00-The Open Facers v. Captain Muff & the Seamen 
4.45-Jtm Pmk & the Blues v Muff Otver & the 
Beavers 6:00-Aeclasstfied Nads v. Fr. Rtehle·s Cheap Cigars 
6:45-Last Year's Champs v. 4 Jerks & a Dnbbler 
WOMEN'S BOOKSTORE 1at ROUND Gemae of Tues., April 21 Stepen 5 
4:00-Mary Murphy v. Debbte Ftcker 
Stepan& 4:00-Name Ftled Ftve v. The Punks That Can Whip It Good · 
Stepan7 4:00-B P Enforcers v. Looney Rooney's & Co. 4:45-Mtss Iowa & Her Corntes v. The Unknown Hoopsters 5:30-Cindy Batte! v. Facials 
Stepan I 4:00-Maura Hart v. The Body Human Phase It 
4:45 -Tigger's Tigers v. Volleyball Players Pretendmg To Be Basketball Players 
5:30 -Go For Blood v. Take It On The Run 
r------·------------------------------------------------------------------------------·~------------------~'----------~·--------------------------------------------------------------, 
All clesstf•ed ads must be rece•ved by 4 45 p m .. two days pnur to the 
1"''i1JP tn.. whu.:h thP. :-.d •s run The Obse,.,.er off•ce wrll accept class,f,eds 
MorHlJv ttHo•,qh Fnc1~\ t 0 00 a m to 5 00 p m Ali ciaS51fleds 'TlUSt be
Classifieds 
l,Hf'-PdHI t•t:her m ~Jt·rson or thraugn tne mat! 
-
LOST BASKETBALL BEHIND Needed: Aide to Cleveland or JUNIORS: Applications for 1982 Sentor EQUUS APPLETON WISCONSIN Need 1 nde BOOKSTORE TUESDAY, APRIL 7. AF· Youngstown, Ohio. Call Kathy. 41· Formal Chairman are now avatfable tn Directed by Brien Woulfe for Easter Break Call Jim 1159 TEA 5:30 P M. CALL PIERRE 3217 4291. 307 Dtllon and 1002 Ftanner. All in­8:00pm
LNOTICEO 
DEAR ED. 
················· ............................. . terested Sentors-to·be are en­Weehlngton Hell LOST:. Tan:maroon reversible Jacket. Need ride to Philadelphta for Easter. couraged to apply Deadline: Thursday Get well SOON! The world anxiously
............................uooooooooooo ....................... 
TYPING DONE IN MY HOME. UNIV possibly at North Dining Hall last week Can leave on Wednesday Please call April 23. Any questions. call Dave EQUUS' a watts your return. PARK MALL AREA. 277-3085 Mom wtll dtsown me. Call John 3256. Maureen at 41-5791! (1783) or Mike (1416). 8:00pm Love. a concerned student 
. ········· ................................. . ... ······ ....................................... . Waehlngton Hell EQUUS P S. Stop hopping fences!!!
I'm going to Rockford. Illinois on Eas­LiZ FISHER. te( Sunday. Need-a nde? Will be gone Have a ntce" 20th Birthday and try 
............. MIKE GURDAK'S FACE IS SO UGLY. IF 
FOR RENT JUSt for the day. Call4-1-5792. to find time for a little fun. (Spantsh Scoop, INSTANT CASH PAID FOR CLASS test?· no problem!) Thanks for l)eing Koobsoon. Much. Share pay. HE WERE A DOG, THE HUMANE RINGS $20-$85 OR MORE. WE MAKE FiioE NEEDED To 'Pirriisui:ia AR.EA such a g<eat friend and camarade de Writer ofepttaphs SOCIETY WOULD SHAVE THE MUTT'S HOUSE CALLS. 255-2402. FOR RENT· UGLY DUCKLING RENT· OR ANY PLACE CLOSE 2 PEOPLE... chambre! 
J 
BUTT AND MAKE IT WALK BACK· ................ A·CAA FROM $7.95 A DAY AND 7 CALL 277-8280-WARDS! GURDAK FOR UMOC!
Love and kisses, BAIDGETS SPECIAL DURING SPRING TYPING. MODEST RATES. 233-949t CENTS A MILE PHONE 259-UGL Y ... ········ .......................................... . Ltsa COME BY AND CHECK OU;T THE DAl­OOOOH. SO UGLY! ...................... FOR RESERVATIONS. 
NEED RIDE TO BOSTON AREA FOR 
LY SPECIALS HAPPY HOUR 3·7 DAISY SALE!! ORDER A BUNCH BREAK IF GOING HOME. PLEASE MARY CERNY N D.-S. M.G. UNITE 
EVERYDAY IONLY $1.00) AT DINNER. APRIL AVAILABLE NEXT SCHOOL YEAR 2 CALL SHAWN AT 41-5124. I hear lipstick IS out-pistachios are BILL KATZENBERGER HAS BEEN t5.16.21.22 WILL DELIVER FIVE BEDROOM HOUSES. NEAR NO. the new craze!!! 
SPOTTED WADDLING AROUNDHOW 'BOUT THAT LUMBERJACK
ANYWHERE ON CAMPUS. LEASE. DEPOSIT. 234-2626 , If you need a ride to Indianapolis ,on FISHER REYNOLDS CAMPUS AGAIN. PROTECT YOUR·
LOOK? FRANK CETTA FOR UMOC! Thu~s., call Steve at 1070 ............u ..................................u ................. 
SELVES AND VOTE BILL KATZEN· AN TOSTAL '81 IS JUST AROUND THE Houses for rent summer and ned Marj. BERGER FOR UCMOC; UGLY AND 
..... ·············· Hev it.o~i P~w .t4s FooosALes~
BEND· APRIL 23.24.25. CHUBBY MAN ON CAMPUS. BACKED
school year. Gd. cond.. close to Male housemate wanted for 81·82 Keep up that CPA--you'll need it in your OPEN •12 SUN-THURS, 8-11 FRf. 
BY N.O.·S M.C. COALITION FORcampus, furn. Call 287·5361 after 6 school year. Call xt075 for information aerobic dance class! And don't bend 
SAT. EVERYONE WELCOME. DRIVERS TO ST. LOUIS NEEDED pm your elbow on your backhand!!!! PREVENTION OF CHUBBINESS AND 
········ 
CALL GARY AT 1030. AIDE LINE. UGLINESS!
Love. 
lady seeks sertous relationship wtth .. ,\... 2 SUMMER roommates. CASTLE Need ride to CALIFORNIA (S.F area) a concerned. budding JOurnaltsl 
man. Enroy the arts, outdoors, non·
EQUUS HIGH-F-IVE LYONS SOCCER
POINT Apts; 3-bdrm. frnshd; all after finals. Have little baggage Will . . ........... 
smoker. Write 1222 E. South St. 
TEAM... LETS SCORE AGAINST
8:00pm amenities. inc! atr cond; $120-MO share drtving and costs. CALL CEC141· THIS IS THIGH'S VERY FIRST PER· SB.46615 W81hlngton Hell RENT (plus UTIL. split 3 ways): tem­4765 SONAL. CALL AND CONGRATULATE WALSH TONIGHT. ED. WE WONT VEG 
porary card allows you free use of com-HER AT 41 -4700. (a in'! fri.de) jiJNioFis·~ 'si:.NioRs 'ro'aE:··A~~·,·i~·~·. OR CHEESE WE LL BE 
PROFESSIONAL TYPING. Term plex (incl OUTDOOR POOL, Psvcl-fol:ociv....uNoERGRAouArE:s . . . . . . . .. ACES... SPECIAL HIGH-FIVES TO
lions now available for 1981·82 Senior
papers. theses. etc. Tape transcriptton. RACQUETBALL. WEIGHT ROOM, Interested in asststmg in a research I need three graduetlon tlckete. Cell TROTS AND DON FOR THEIR HELP ON
Advisory Council in Student Activities
Last year's same low prices. All work TENNIS. SAUNA. et. al.) for summer. pro]E!ct THIS SUMMER please call Rick Joe Conroy lit 1570. SUNDAY....
Office m LaFortune. Apply by Aprtl14.
guaranteed. aardvark automahc solu· Call Mtke. 277-7351 Derse 233-6068 lions. 289·6753 """ ....... ..... """' .................,........ r~~ sll.~rsa~d rl'tll.l-tov.oowl.·r;.;;t;t.j 3AD FLOOR PW SEEKS N D. MIILES
EQUUS WHO BELIEVE IN THE POSSIBILITYSUMMER APARTMENT Fully come in frequent contact wtth each 
8:00pmfurnished-equipped one-bedroom apt. other! Vote TOM SHIELS for UMOC! 
OF HAVING A 2ND DATE WITHOUTWeahlngton Hell 
avatfabte for summer(5-15 to 8·15). MAKING MARRIAGE PLANS. CALL Located in popular apt. complex and WANTEo:..o·~ 'Bii~d··o~t~·. ·.:Wh~-~-ise 2702,2773.2801. OR 2854 
TICKETS
ILOST/FOUND I ............................. 
includes color tele.. A·C, dishes & uten· would go out with Nancy Zaczek! Vote FOR AN UGLY FACE LOOK AT PRO sits, etc. Closest apt to club house and NANCY ZACZEK for UWOC Jeff Jeffers IS ugly. But even tf he s not
BURKE. THE UGLIEST THING ON pool. Rent $205-mo&utils. Deposit re· LOST: Green. lined windbreaker. back­MANY TICKETS FOR GRADAltON THE ugliest guy on campus. he sttll ISstage at the Jazz Festival this weekend. CALL TIM AT 16500R 1868 CAMPUS JUST WHEN YOU THOUGHT 
qwed. 277· 7392 P~ntll~~~ M~g~i~~~·~ii~~ i.i~~~~ z~~: THE most deservtng of thts award.
Would greatly appreciate Its return. Am IT WAS SAFE TO WALK THE OUAD IN Stmply because he deserves 1!.
zek showed up m Chtcago for the Pet PEACE...YOU SAW PRO PRO BURKEcold. Call T J. 3207. Desperately need to buy grad fix. 
........
of the Monih' intervtews.... When we FOR UMOC!!!!
Please call Kathy at 1287. 
The countdown continues! Only etghtsaid PET" of the month 1dtdn't thtnkLOST: GOLD MAN'S WEDDING BAND more days to Paul (that's Pawl) Some­anyone would take it literally!" Vote
AT THE ALBERT PICK ON FRIDAY. BRIDGETS DAILY SPECIALS lofske·s twentieth. ND-SMC women get
WANTED 
NANCY ZACZEK for UWOC!
APRIL 10 EXTREME SENTIMENTAL ALL YOU SMC WINE DRINKERS BE ready!
. ········ THERE JGVALUE. REWARD!!! 277-0458. 
.......
75C WINE 3·7 EVERYDAY 0 ·Who tS the only UMOC candtdate to
Needed: Rtde to Washmgton D.C. for Don't crash too hard when you rump ALL YOU NO BEER DRINKERS 
I PERSONALS I
LOST: PAIR OF PRESCRIPTION successfully combtne the looks and
Easter. Can leave Thurs. A.M. or Wed. off the wagon this weekend! Have a 25C OFF ALL BEER EVERYDAY 3-7 
GLASSES TORTOISE FRAMES IN good one! charm of a lump of cold Cream of
PM. Call Mary Julte. 41-4376 
YELLOW CASE PLEASE CALL IF Desperate for ride! GOODE IS BAD NOF Wheat with the sunny disposition of
HOW MANY PEOPLE DO VOl K'KlW Alexander Hatg?
FOUND· FRANCIE 277·8760. ........................................................... GOODE IS BAD THAT MAKES THE CHILOREI CRY? 
KATHY MCGRATH: A -None other than BILL Jeez. I got so
NEED 2 GRADUATION TIX $$WILL GOODE IS BAD JUST ONE PRO BURKE FOR U AOC 
much work to do CAVAI'.AUGH--an
THREE ROSES WERE RED PAY$$. CALL JOHN AT 1846 OR 1787. Jtm Goode for UMOC. 
THE UGLIEST MAN ON CAMPUS!!!! 
ugly man m every sense of the termAND THE OTHER WAS WHITE. 
..... VOTE PRO 
The Observer (USPS 598 920) 1s 
Needed: Rtde to St. LoutS for Easter PRO BURKE SOME TIMES ARE SPECIAL 
GO SEE THE ROBE 
Can Leave Tues P.M. or Wed. A.M. Will PRO BURKE LIKE LAST SATURDAY NIGHT. 
published Monday through Fr•day 
ATTENTION LONG ISLA~) CLUB TONIGHT AND TOMORROW 7 & 10 
Prov!de the unusual plus gas call HE MAKES THE CHILDREN CRY!!!! TODAY IS EXTRA SPECIAL MEMBE_RS MEETING ON TUESDAY ENGINEERING AUDITORIUM, $I
ewcept dunng ewarn and vacatiOn 
Retnette 41-5732 or Mary 41-5729 SAVE THOSE PENNIES FOR UMOC AND IN THIS PERSONAL WAY, 
APRIL 14 AT 630 PM IN LAFORTUNE PRO. YOU'RE AN UGLY MAN!!! I'D LIKE TO WISH YOU
penods The Observer •s published 
LITTLE THEATRE CONCERNING OF­
by the students of Notre Dame and 
A HAPPY 19TH BITHDAY! EQUUS
FICER ELECTIONS, BAGGAGE TRUCK 
Sam! Marys College Subscnpt10ns 
Tueecley and WednesdaySTEVE RESERVATIONS AND BUS GOINGNEED RIDERS TO STATEN ISLAND. Only 33 days until graduahon day'
may be purchased for $30 per year 
.. ... ...... . .......... . Aprl114 and 15
HOME FOR THE SUMMER. 
N.Y. CITY AREA. FOA EASTER BREAK ANYONE WHO TOOK PICTURES OF 8:00pm
($15 per semester) by wr1tmg The Ob­
CALL TONY AT 1376 All I really need ts for you to want me. 
THE ABIOGENESIS DANCE CON­WMhlnglon Hall
server, P 0 Bo• 0. Notre Dame. In· 
I'm here fer you if you dectde I'm worth HELP!! NEED A RIDE TO THE KANSAS 
CERT PLEASE CALL MIKE AT 3166.
d1ana 46556 
Atders needed to Evansville. vta In· II. CITY AREA FOR EASTER BREAK!!!! 
4 ..............-•••••••••_ ......................._ .........-... .. 
dianapohs Wilt be leaving Thursday Wt!..l SHARE EXPENSES AND
The Observer •s a member of the 
EQUUSEQUUS 8:00pm
ntght or Fnday morn1n9. Calf Chris JANE-O.!SA F.I.B! INTERESTING CONVERSATION!
Assoc•ated Press All reproductiOn 
1:00pm
Weahlngton Hell
Anneal 1361 PLEASE CALL PEG---1288. 
W81hingtonHall
r1ghts are reserved 
--..---·······-·····-·..~...........................-..-... 
·. 
·. 

r~--~ 
: j 
i 
1 I I 

l I Tuesday, April 14, 1981 -page 12 
Sports
) 
Wotnen begin Bookstore play as tnen continue 
By FRANK LaGROITA Gren>'s 4-of-I I paced the losers. and SKIP DESJARDIN 
Associate Bookstore commis­
Sports Writers 
sioners, Anne Fink and Mary Beth Sterling could not find a way to ad­
Rumors flew as the second round 
vance to round-three as their team,of the tenth annual Bookstore Bas­
We Can't Play B-Ball ... lost to M.D.
ketball tournament concluded yes­Chapman... 21-7. Fink, named "Missterday. 
Congeniality" of the game -hit only"~o. Kelly Tripucka will not play," 1-of-9 while Sterling, who tried to 
insisted tournament ayatollah Rob 
play, keep score and officiate all atSimari. He also clarified the follow­once, was 1-of-1 I. Tom Mahoneying bits of hearsay: 
was 9-of-1 5 for the winners. "Yes. Tracy jackson will play. ":'ilo. Digger Phelps will not play. Balanced scoring paced this year's "Ycs. it u•as a beautiful day for darkhorse entry, Visual 0 ... , to a 21­Bookstore Basketball. 8 win over Tricker and the 4 .... John Martin was 6-of-12, Pete Crowe, 5­
"No. Gerry Faust did not need ar­of-S, and Tim O'Connor, 5-of-6 fortifidal respiration after his game the winners. The surprise of thisSunday." 
game was Digger Phelps Fan Club Meanwhile, action continued on President Gary Grassey's 2-of-6 per­all three official Bookstore sites with formance. George Eversman was 4­
the tournament two-thirds con­
·--of-I I for the losers. An Irish hardballer slides head-first to beat the throw in a recent game. (Photo byjohn Macor)
cludt:d as third-round action begins 
today. Mini-Maggie Lally hit only 3-of-6 Kevin Dix hit 9-of-17 shots to field goal attempts but it was more pal.·e number three-seeded WEBB'S than enough as her team, Mini­
After 5 years 
End to a 1.1-8 win over 4 Kool Guys Maggie... , scored a 21-10 win over and Grant. Dix, a member ofthe first Proverbial Societal Sponges. Shari All-Bookstore team last year, was Matvey was 0-of-3 but Bob Battle 
Blache returns to NO 
managed 6-of-14 for Mini-Maggie's
helped by teammate Bob Keenahan, team. Doug Jordan was 5-of-16 for
who hit 3-of-I 0 shots. Paul Nugent's 3-of-6 was tops for the 4 Cool Guys. the Sponges. By MIKE MONK waiting to return home to New Or­than just football. Sports Writer leans. He had come to Notre Dame "Ara was a magnificent force on
Curt Bailey and Nick Vehr "All in all things are going OK," on athletic and academic scholar­my life, not only as a coach but as acombined for 12 points to lead the said Simari. "We hate to have to dis-. 
In 1967, 14 years before Greg ships, and was realizing his dream of person," Blache said. "I learned
No. 4 Assassins over the Fighting qualify anyone but we want to stress Blache became the running back playingfootball for the Fighting Irish everything from him. He typifiedKoalas. 21-12. Bailey was 7-of-13 that rules are rules and we cannot 1 coach for Notre Dame, he was sitting under head coach Ara Parseghian. what Notre Dame is all about as far as and Vchr. 5-of-11 while Andy close our eyes to anything." 
in a bus stop, his bags packed, But during his freshman year he suf­helping to make someone into a bet­ferred a serious leg injury, ending his ter man. He constantly emphasized playing career. His dream shattered, honesty, integrity, class, and dignity.
Base stealing record 
feeling lost and despondent, Blache And he didn't just say them, he lived was sure of only one thing; he them, and stressed that the players wanted to go home. should live that way also. He had a great impact on my life as far as
Szajko,s speed aidsIrish 
shaping me into the person that I am
Spring Football'81 
today." By MARK HANNUKSELA have to work on most is my hitting," saying that lams, who is a year older, Blache also approaches the game Sports W'riter says Szajko. "I have to be more con­was the best centerfielder in the offootball in much the same rftanner 
sistent in hitting the ball harder and area, while on the other side, people "Then a priest who was here at the as the man who won two national 
At the crossroads behind to all fields. For instance, I've heen were calling Szajko the best. time, Fr. Brennan, came down to the championships while playing in the LaFortune, Dan Szajko meets john, a concentrating a lot on hitting the Both players received a great deal • bus station and talked me out of it. house that Rockne built. janitor in Hayt.'s-Healey, and a big fan ball to the opposite field. I couldn't of publicity, especially Szajko, who He intimidated me into coming back "My football philosophy is basical­of this yt:ar's Notre Dame baseball do that when I first came here." played on the American Legion Post to school by challenging my pride," ly a Parseghian philosophy. My at­team. f-!earing this from a man with a SO national champion squad in recalls Blache. "I'm forever grateful titudes toward handling players, my 
"Hey. it's the big home run hitter," .329 batting average would come as 1977. to him for what he did, because that attitude toward offense and defense saysjohn. a surprise to most people, but it When Szajko chose to attend the was the greatest crisis in my life and and even the kicking game were 
Szajko just smiles. "Naw, you got comes as no surprise to Szajko's same college that lams was attend­there was someone there to help molded and formulated by his the wrong guy," he says. "Talk to coach, who offers an explanation for ing, South Bend baseball fans me, not as an athlete, but as a person, philosophy." .Jamieson about home runs." Szajko's feelings. thought they were finally going to and that meant a lot to me." In 1976, after one year as an assis­
Dan Szajko is not a hom~ run hit­"Danny is the type of player who find out which player was the better And the rest, as they say, is history. tant coach with Dan Devine, Blache ter. despite the fact that he is third is never satistit:d, who always feels centerfielder. It appears, however, Wanting to stay involved with knew it was time for a change. He on the s4uad in that catagory. that there is still room for improve­as though no one will ever truly football, Blache served three years had been with Notre Dame for nine 
lk took the kidding from john be­ment," says Gallo. "He is always know which is better, for Szajko has as a student-assistant coach under years and felt a move was necessary cause he hit one home run in each striving to be better." been placed in rightfield, and lams in Parseghian. Upon graduation from for several reasons. He was a young, gamt· of last week's double-header "I feel that Danny is an excellent left. Notre Dame he was promoted to ambitious coach anxious to move up 
swct·p oflkthd. But power is not his fielder, has excellent speed and an The switch has paid off for Gallo, defensive coordinator for the fresh­the ladder in the football hierarchy. fone. Speed is. excellent throwing arm, and is· a who claims that with the two posi­man team, and served in that But all the other coaches had been 
\\'ith a pair of double-headers very good hitter. That might be the tioned where they are, his outfield capacit}i for three years while ear­around a lot longer, and none had washed out this weekend. Notre difference right there -between will be able to run down many balls ning a Master's degree in education. ever hinted at leaving the security Dame still has half of its 44 game excellent and very good. When he which might otherwise not be He then finished out his "first and prestige ofthe Golden Dome. st·hcdulc to play. yct Szajko has al­says that he needs to improve his hit­caught. career" , at Notre Dame as head Because he had been here for so rt·ad~· st:t a ~otrl:' Dame single ting, he may feel that it is weak As for Szajko, he says that he en­coach ~f the junior varsity squad long, the other coaches tended to !\Cason rn:ord with I 0 stolen bases. compared to his other exceptional joys playing in rightfield, and that his from 1~73-75. As a player and a take him for granted, another reason 
Ht· is the typt· of player who can attributes." rivalry with lams has long been over. coach ~nder the legendary Ara Par­which would have made any promo­unnt·n·e most pih:hcrs. because he Gallo went on to say that Szajko is scghian Blache had a great teacher, gt•ts on hasc quite a bit (as the consummate team player who See SL\JKO, page 10 from w om he learned a lot more SeeBLACHE,pagelO cYidt·nced h\ his .-lOO on-base per­will do anything to help his club, n:ntagt: ). and poses a constant including the little things that don't thrcat w stt·al. often show up in the boxscore. 
lk also is an important cog in The first year coach also said that n>ach Larry Gallo's defensive Szajko is the team's best outfielder, 
Indy 500 etltries reach_ 104 
stratt>gy. for his spt:ed allows him to adding that "quite a few people have 1 run down a lot of balls hit into the told mt.' that Danny Szajko is one of right fidd pao;turt·s which he patrols, the finest and steadiest college out­I halls whil.·h othn players who are fielders they have ever seen." INDIANAPOLIS ( AP)-The entry pton ofSellersville, Pa. gelhart of Madison, Wis.; and Leader slowa at(>Ot could never reach. A native of South Bend, Szajko is list for the May 24 Indianapolis 500 Cards Inc. ofMilwaukee, with a third 
Hut Dan Szajko's work is never the eighth of nine children, and the reached a record I 04 cars today other two stock-block car for which no driver was named. done. second member ofhis family to play with six more entries received by entn,es, with no drivers listed, came 
"I learnl:'d very quickly in this baseball at Notre Dame, following in ~ Indianapolis .Motor Speedway. from Walter Medlin of Kissimmee, The 104 entries topped the pre­game that you are only a.-. good a.-. the footsteps of his brother Tom, a Additional entries postmarked Fla..:and Donald Mergard of Cincin­vious n:cord of I 00 set two years your next day." he says. ·You can be 1966 graduate, who played under before last Friday's deadline will still natr. ago. 
a hero one day, but if you strike out the immortal jake Kline. be accepted. 
I Among entries received by the
four times the next day, the fans are While a player atjohn Adams High Four of the latest entries, includ­
Jwo Cosworth-powered entries Speedway over the weekend were
still going to call you a hum. So you School, Szajko was involved in a hit­ing two cars for driver Jerry Karl of 
were submitted by teams which had 
two cars for veteran Jim McElreath,
always han· to try to improve, try to ter rivalry with George lams, a Wellsville, Pa., will be powered by already entered other cars 53, the oldest driver ever to com­do things ht:ner." present teammate and close friend. stock-block Chevrolet engines. 
Beaudoin Racing Inc. of Brookfit:ld, pete in the Indianapolis SOO.
"The one part of my game that I On one side oftown, people were 
.. Tht·y were entered hy William Com-Wis., with a second car for Billy En­



-
