---......---------------~-----­
, , , Adjusting -page 14 · 

VOL. XVI, NO. 2 WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 26, 1981
an mdep{"nd{"nt student newspaper servmg notr{" darn{" and saint mary's 
ND denies discrimination; settles out of court 
By MARY FRAN CALLAHAN •Notre Dame must also establish an appellate procedure for women
Senior Copy Editor 
who, in the future, believe they may 
In an out-of-court summer settle­have been discriminated against on nu:nt of the Fn·se and Ford sex dis­faculty promotions. crimination lawsuits against the • Ms. Ford, after reaching a llnin·rslty, Notre Dame denied a his­separate settlement with the Univer­
wry ofdiscrimination against female sity, dismissed her case. She will be fat·ulty In tenure and contract deci­promoted to the rank ofprofessor in sions. Tht· I lniversity, however, did the Theology Department and also make substantial conct·ssions to the 
receive compensation from Sept. I, plaint lffs. 
19HO. 
•The University has agreed to payTht· 16-page S<.·ttlemcnt, ap­"a reasonable amount" of the plain­proVl'd by U.S. District Judge Allen tiffs' legal fees. 
Sharp on July 3I, consists of the 
•Notre Dame will also be kept un­following provisions: der the watchful eye of the Equal Opportunity Employment Commis­
sion (EEOC) for the next three yearsWEDNESDAY 'mf.NM as it will provide the agency with its
.. :·.. ·:=:::~~~=w:· 
affirmative action report for that time period.

FOCUS 
Ms. Frese initiated her lawsuit in 197H when she was denied tenure, and that suit eventually became a

• Ms. Fn·se, who initiated the Demonstr_ators carry signs directed at the_ United States and /rea's Khomenini regime
dass-at·tion suit on grounds that the class-action with 81 plaintiffs in­
Ml?nday tn Stockholm after '! grY:!uP ofIranzan students stormed the lrani&n Embassy a11d 

University violated the Civil Rights volved. Ms. Ford followed shortly 
sezzed the ambassador andhts wzfe. A spokesman for the students saidthey were pro1esti11g
thereafter with her separate lawsuit.

Act of 1964, will become a tenured 
"Facist executors" in Iran. [AP]

fan1lty member in tht· English Departmt·nt and receive hat·k pay from Sept I, ll)HO. 
Special precautions 
•The Frese settlement also re­quires the t·stablishment of a review pand for other members of the class at·tion suit who contend they were 
Hotel disaster sparks loft regulations 
diS<.·riminated against. This Appeals Committee -agreed to by attor­
By TIM VERCEUOm dent rooms, Dean of students mishaps involving collapsing the University raised questions 
neys for both sides-consists oftwo 
News Editor James Roemer said yesterday. lofts have occured in the past. regarding the safety of stu­
mt·n and one woman. They arc: Professor Ann Ida Gannon of the The recent disaster at the "You're allowing people to The new regulations, which dent-constructed elevATED 
were set down by University BEDS. Fr. Van Wolvlear metChkago-hased Mundelein College, Kansas City Hyatt Regency build things that may be shab­Vice-President for Student Af­

Professor David C. Lcege and Profes­sparked Univerdsity admini~. by, and may collapse and kill with Charles Reddy, the Uni­sor Charles K. Wilber, both of Notre tration concern regarding the people," Roemer said, al­fairs Fr. John Van Wolvlear in versity's insurance officer, and Dame. building of structures in stu-though he admitted that no a special bulletin dated August Director of Fire Safety Jad: 20, stipulated that the tops of Bland in)uly, and, as a result mattresses on elevated or of that meeting, he sent a stacked beds must be at least letter to all hall rectors reques­
The SAGA is over 
three feet from the lowest ting them to discourage the ceiling surface, but no higher building of elevated beds. than ~ix feet from the floor. Dean Roemer, who was away 
Originally, elevated beds need­at the time of the meeting,ed only to be 36 inches from drew up a bulletin to be placed ther ceiling. In addition, the in the residence halls when he 

Food service returns to self-management 
1977, is now part of an overall where it was SAGA's food
ByKEWFUNT bulletin stated that the tops of returned to South Bend. 
food plan that also governs the service.''
News Editor the elevated are to be used "This was done for the
Huddle, Robinson said. Robinson listed other solely for beds. health and safety of the stu­Notre Dame Food Service has 'The administration made a changes in dining hall pro­Roemer explained that short­dents. Theyare our only con­discontinued its affiliation with decision a few years ago to cedure. "Student requests ly after the collapse of the two cern," Roemer stated. 
SAGA food service in favor of contract out a food service," precipitated a change inclining suspended walkways at theUniversity management, due to Robinson said. ''They were SeeFOOD, page 3 Kansas City Hyatt Regency, SeeLOFT, page 3 
a return to a oasic policy of satisfied with SAGA's service. self-management, Food Ser­But the decision then came vice Director Robert Robinson from the University to manage 
said. its own basic service of feeding 1956 Bentley This change is one of many its students \tself. instituted by Notre Dame Food "In actuality, SAGA's Services during the past service to the University was 
john Lennon 's car up for sale 

months. just that--manasin~ a service Notre Dame Food Service, for the University, ' Robinson 
AUBURN, Ind. (AP)··John Beatle-owned Apple Corp., the by the Movie Land Museum in

which was self-managed until said. "It was never a situation 



ND Board of Trustees names Hesburgh 
The Board of Trustees has aborate with the President, created the position of the provost and executive Chancellor of the University, vice president and the four for University President will constitute the top man­Theodore Hesburgh, who agement team for the Uni­will retire in June of 1982. versity, according to the 
The chancellor, as chief provost. executive officer of the University, will be mainly The President, as chief involved m long-range plan­operating officer, will ad­nin~ and development of minister and preside over all pohcy regarding the goals execution of policy within the and character of the immediate scope of the Uni­Univesity. He will coli-versity. 
Lennon's magical mystery car, same year the Beatles released Los Angeles for a "Cars of the a 1956 Bentley with a psy­a song called "Drive My Car." Stars" display, where it was chedelic paint job, will go on Some auto writers have exhibited for six years. the block next week in a classic claimed that the car inspired Then another owner pur­car auction. the song, but Burger admits he chased the car and put it in 
The Bentley also features doesn't know what promoted storage. purple leather seats, hot pink Lennon to buy the auto. In ) anuary, Ron Morgan, a carpeting, paisley drapes, and a "We don't know why Apple classic car collector and auto walnut dashboard. Corp. bo~ght the ca~, or who wholesaler fron Santa Ana, CA 
But all those extras won't had the 1dea to fix 1t up like back on tour. Since then, it has come cheap at the auction to be this," Burger said. earned $65,000 in promotional held Sept. 4-7 at the Auburn He said no one knows who fees. Cord-Duesenberg Museum. decorated the car or if any of 
Officials at the museun say the Beatles had a hand in Burger said Morgan is put· the last time the famous auto creating the design. ting the car up for auction in was offered at auction it attrac­Apple Corp. owned the bent­several locations across the ted bids as high as $280,000, ley from 1966 through 1968 country, a move he hopes will and bids at the Indiana auction then traded it for a yacht: enhance the car's reputation. are ecpected to top that Shortly ~ter that exchange, it amount was sh1pped to the United Morgan refused to sell Len­
Museun spokesman Dan Bur­States, where it was put on a non's car for $280,000 when it ger said the car was purchased tour of state fairs. was offered at auction last for Lennon in 1966 by the Later the car was purchased month. 



_______________,_,_ 
J\TetlJS=l=l=r=~=·e~~~S========~==================w=e=dn=es=d=ay=,A=u=g=us=t=26=,=19=st==-=P=a=~~2 
by The Observer and The Associated Press 
Inflation on the rise 
Politics or Playtime ? 
A record jump in house prices and steep rises in the cost of mongages, food and medtcal care sent iriflation surging at a 
15.2 percent annual rate in July, the highest level in more than a year, the government reported Tuesday. An unexpectedly large 1.2 percent monthly increase in the Consumer Price Index marked the ftrst time in ftve months that inflation advanced at a double-digit pace. House prices, which had declined at the start of the year, climbed 1.8 percent, the largest monthly rise since the government began collecting records 28 years ago. Mortgage interest rates -· also at record levels •· advanced 1.3 percent. The July report showed large increases for meat; fruits and vegetables; natural gas and electricity'; home repairs; used cars; bus, airline and taxi fares; and doctors fees. Gasoline and fuel oil prices declined for a fourth consecutive month, the Labor Department's Bureau ofLabor Statistics said. As a result of the inflationary surge, the buying power of a worker with three dependents declined by an average 0.8 percent in July, the largest drop since April1979, the bureau said. ·· AP 
Sadat and Begin meet 
ESYJ>tian President Anwar Sadat and Israeli Prime Minister Menachem Begin, sittin~ down tosether for the ftrst time since Israel's devastating atr strikes mto Lebanon and Iraq, searched for common ~round Tuesday to resume the stalemated talks on Palestiman self-.rule. Sadat and Begin started their two-day summit meeting yesterday at the Egyptian president's Mediterranean seaside villa in this steamy resort town. Sadat broke off the Israeli-Egyptian talks on Palestinian autonomy 13 months ago after the Israeli Parliament declared all of Jerusalem, including its occupied eastern sector, to be Israel's eternal capital. The negotia­tions, mediated by the United States, were aimed at giving some form of self-rule to the 1.2 million Palestinian Arabs living in the Israeli occupied West Bank of the Jordan River and the Gaza Strip. At the Alexandria summit, Israeli officials said, Begin would call for resumption of the talks, which Egypt's Foreign Minister Kamal Hassan Ali has said are at a "dead end," and would demand that Egypt improve the qualityof its relations with Israel. ·· AP 
Prison in 'lockdown' 
The Indiana State rison remained in a lockdown status Tuesday while Warden Jack Duckworth met with a group of about 20 inmates, prison officials said. Correction Commis­sioner Gordon Faulkner said the "primary ct>mplaint of the inmates continues to be the recreauon schedule. We still are in lockdown status and we will continue to talk to this group tonight and we will re-evaluate the situation in the morning." The prison was placed in lockdown status Monday after Duckworth said a group of inmates stayed in their cells and refused to go to their work assignments. Lockdown means inmates are locked in their cells and are not allowed to leave, even for meals. Some inmates tacked handwritten notes to bulletin boards throughout the prison during the weekend saying the 1,900 prisoners in the maximum security facility should remain in their cells and participate in a non-vtolent demonstration. All activities were restricted last week to halfof the population at a time because of a shortage of guards to watch the inmates, Faulkner said. Only half of the population has been allowed to eat at a time, exercise or work. The other half remain in their cellblocks until the ftrst half have completed their activity, Faulkner said. ·· AP 
Earthquake predictions 
Using American satellites, radio signals from deep space and laser reflectors left on the moon by astronauts, geophysicists from 11 nations have launched a ftve-year program whose ultimate goal is reliable earthquake predictions. Project officials emphasized Tuesday they do not expect such forecasts during the planned life of the $100-150 million effort, and said these could be a couple of decades away. ''This s~dy will improve our understanding . of th,~ dynamic behavtor of the earth and earthquake mechamsms, said Dr. Gilbert Mead, who heads the project at the space agency's Goddard Space Flight Center. The. proj~ct is concentratinv on earthquake-prone areas of Califorma and Alaska anr' expects to extend to Mexico, South America, the Caribbean, Australia, New Zealand and parts of Europe. The project, Mead said, will use space technology to make extremely accurate measurements of the relative motion of the globe's tectonic plates and how these movements distort the earth's crust, creating stresses that can cause earthquakes. He said seophysicists were excited in the e~ly days of space explorauon when they found that by bouncmg signals off satellites they could measure distance between two lJOints on earth thousands of miles apart to an accuracy of withm 10 to 20 feet. --AP 
Weather 

Continued warm and humid with thunderstorms likely. High around 80. Low tonight in the low to mid 60s. A good chance for thunderstorms tomorrow. High in mid to upper 70s. --AP 
Although Fr. Hesburgh is scheduled to retire this June, the University President will not at all become a "has-been" in University history. Next year at this time, he will have simply moved on to a newly created position, a new challenge ·-that of Chancellor for the University. 
Accordtng to Provost Timothy O'Meara, the position of Chancellor ·· which the Board of Trustees created with Fr. Hesburgh in mind -­will "evolve over time." O'Meara said the Chancellor will be involved with "lon~ range plannins" and "external affairs" pertaming to the Umversity and its development in the coming years. Since this is a novel position, however, the specific duties of the job remain rather nebulous. 
And as O'Meara put it, "That's all anyone short of God knows at this time.'' 
What is far more interesting, however, are the ramifications such an arrangement will have on the office of the President. In a letter which O'Meara sent to faculty last May, he explained that the Presidency ''has become so demand­ing" that the new President/Chancellor ar­rangement will enable • 'future srowth in excellence without requiring the Prestdent to be twins ... " 
The President can now solely address himself to the immediate concerns on the home front -­the daily operation of the campus. in short, the Chancellor will do travelling and worry about the larger aspects of the University and the direction its policies are taking. In the .Past, Fr. Hesburgh attempted to tackle both Jobs and often received cnticism for losing touch with the pulse of campus affairs since he travels extensively and sits on a lar~e number of political, corporate and academta-related com­mittees. 
So the question arises: Will those potential candidates for Hesburgh's old office really want such a job? O'Meara explained that Hesburgh is still number one in command, as the new position is the highest one, short of the Board of Trustees, in the University's political hierarchy. 
The Board of Trustees, however, consists basically of very, very, very rich, very very, very, very influential people in the private sector. They are scattered all over the country, meet periodically on islands and appear on campus to meet when the best football teams are in town. Therefore, it would seem safe to surmise that they could be slightly out of touch with immediate concerns of the campus and might tend to think that the President (or soon, the Chancellor) knows what is best. Translation: Although the Trustees are technically the highest governing body of the University, they are not nearly as politically intimidating as they look on paper. 
Anyone who assumes the office of President then would still have to play subordinate to Fr. Hesburgh, who has the final say. 
O'Meara, however, called the new structure 
an "emphasis on teamwork, not on who's boss, 


~~----~----------~ 
The_Qhs_erxer 
Design Editor Mike Monk Design Assistants 
Lisa Bontempor 
News Editor 
Mary Agnes Carey 
Sports Copy Editor 
Michael Ortman Typists Bruce Oakley 
Pam De~nan, Deirdre Murphy Greg Swtercz, M.A. Carey Systems Technician Bruce-god 
Ad Design Ferk, Shag, Corbs 
! 
Mark, Moe, Larry, Curly Photographer Greg Maurer Guests at Inferno 
Griff, Darby Tue Devil, passing by, said: ''Even as hell doth it appear!'' 
The Observer (USPS 598 920) IS published Monday through Fnday except dunng exam and vacation penods. The Observer IS published by the students of Notre Dame and Samt Maris College Subscnpt10ns may be purchased for $30 per year ($15 per semester) by writing The Ob­server, P 0. Box 0. Notre Dame. In­diana 46556. 
The Observer IS a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction nghts are reserved 

Mary Fr• CaJiahOD 
Senior Copy Editor 
Inside Wednesday 
although there must be a boss." 
Yet perhaJ;>s this new position may sway ''contenders. 'The Advisory Committee respon­sihle for recommending replacements to the Board, after all, has a few sttpulations to fulfill. The University' President must ftrst meet the requirement of being a member of the Indiana province of Holy Cross --not to mention the experience, intellisence, diplomacy, etc., to handle such a positton. All that would appear to considerably narrow the field. 
The committee will recommend candidates to the trustees by Oct. 1. The trustees will then meet in late October (USC weekend) to discuss the candidates. No one is certain when they will hand down their decision. O'Meara said "sometime between October and June." 
• 

Fr. hesburgh obviously has the skills required for Chancellor. He knows the people, has the connections and can persuade the very influen­tial to come around to the University's viewpoint. he can pick up a telephone and have the President attend commencement not to mention sandwich in half a dozen commence­ment addresses of his own around the country. He should be quite good as such a job would seem to be his forte. 
In the immediate vicinity of Domerland, having a University President on campus for more than one day a week would actually be quite nice for students, faculty and administra­uon. 
Interesting future possibilities of a diminished Presidency and permanent Chancellor also arise from the proposed arrangement. But that is looking too far ahead. 
Right now, a University President who will concentrate on Notre Dame, Indiana, rather than tomorrow's trip should be a welcome addition on campus. But if that President has limited powers and must clear all with the Chancellor, we could be right back where we started. 


TEST PREPARATION SPECIALISTS SINCE 1938 For Information About Other Centers In More Than 85 us Cities & Abroad Outside NY Slate CALL TOLL FREE: 100·223·1112 

The Observer 
• • • Food 

[continuedfrom page IJ 
hall hours," he said. "Fooa Service flow charts also indicated a need for change. 
First, he said, hot breakfast has been extended until 8:30 a.m., continental breakfast has been extended until 10 a.m., and Sunday dinner now begins at 4:30p.m. 
The checking system has also been altered, Robinson said, to utilize more sophisticated Vaildine equipment in the process. 
The new cards, he expJ.ained, are unbreakable and are ver­satile enough to also use in the Cashier s Office for the check-cashing process, where they will verify the students 
eli~ibility. 
' If there is a student who the Cashier's office does not wish to cash checks due to past problems, this information can be pro~rammed into the reader,' Univerity Registrar Richard Sullivan noted. 
The system may be expanded in the future,sullivan said, to include such facilities as the library in its check-out process. 
"We're optimistic that other 'University offices will use the Validine system," he said. 
Robinson said that Food 
[continued from page IJ 
In a meeting with Dean Roemer, Student Government judicial coordinator Carla Silva questioned Roemer's ability to add new rules, or interpret existing rules in Du Lac with­out it first being discussed in a meeting of student leaders. 
Roemer, however, clarified that changes in the University rules and regulations should be discussed with the student body president, the judicial board coordinator, and the chairman of the Hall Presi­dent's Council prior to issu­ance. Rules regarding elevated beds fall under residence hall regul­ations, he said, which deal with University property. Any chan­ges in this section of Du Lac need not be reviewed by the student government, acording to Roemer. 
"The University has always reserved the right to change Services made one change in order to stop the abuses going on in the system. 
''A student must bring his meal card to every meal," Robinson said. "If a student does not have his meal card, he has two options: do no eat, or pay for the meal. The student may charge the meal at the checker 
desk. 
"If the identification card is lost or stolen, the student will still be required to pay for the meal. However, in the process of obtaining a new card, there can be some discussion,'' Robinson noted. 
Robinson also stated that Food Services has also installed a S-0-U-P line, as a service to both students and dining hall managers. 
By dialing S-0-U-P, a person can find · out what is being served for dinner, for lunch the next day, and the meal hours for the next day. 
"We used to have a tre­mendous number of calls right at the time when we were busiest trying to set the meal out," Robinson satd. 
"The S~O-"U·P line will free those managers to be out on the lines and in the kitchens, rather than answering the telephones, " he said. 
. Loft 
these rules, because the Uni­versity owns the residence halls,'' he explained. 
Dean Roemer pointed out that once again, lofts as de­scribed in Du Lac are illegal. Du Lac defines loft as "a room or floor built within another room." 
''Lofts cannot be built. That has always been a prohibi­tion,"he said. 
At last night's meeting of the Hall President's Council, the council drew up a J>roposal aimed at altering the directive to extend the hetght limit from six to seven feet. This propo­sal, which HPC members said is in accordance with the Du Lac regulations, also asks that those regulations be enforced more stringently by the hall staffs. 

The HPC proposal came after that board met with Fr. Van Wolvlear for about an hour last night. 
Wednesday, August 26, 1981 -page 3 

SHOP 10-9, SAT 10-5:30, SUN 1-6 

• EVERY COLOR IMAGINABLE 
C--'

--..._ --......... ~~ 
~~ 


·­u .... ........... ,_.,..
• EVERY STYLE IMAGINABLE 

5hotl, twist, plulh,loop, tweed, ··­c-. ..... ·-.. NyMMtf\ ,.... .~--.... 
c­~-­(._,4., ,_.
cut/uftCUt, Mlltl-level fi9u,.d ,.,_.. j_. ~ 
" ...... '"' "'•••Meec­
e ...... IHI ,,..,. 11t,e
• BRING YOUR ROOM SIZES ..... t.pG,..... 0...'-'0tl••
-··

Snap .. theM value•-,.,_ opot """"' .._-·.. __..
..... 

...... ·­..._ o.-----­.... 
-~

• LEES -CABIN CRAFTS QUALITY --,......... 
Our Country's flnoot, moot famouo mills IlEA'S WIEST CAitPn SPECIALn STOlE 
DILIVI.Y AVAILABLE 
IIi FINANCING 
Moderate Charge 
INSTALLATION AVAILAill • AYAILAILE 
DIRECTIONS: Take U.S. 31 (Hiway between N.D. and St. Mary's) North to Sandock's, on same side of Hiway as N.D. 



~ -~ 

r 
----.­
The Observer Wednesday, August 26, 1981 -page 4 
Right on schedule 


Newbuilding nears completion 

ByEARLRJX StaffReporter 
Construction on the $9.3 million-_{>lus Stepan Chemistry hall, whtch began on December 20, 1979, procedded on scedule during the summer, so the five-story structure should be completed by its December target date, said physical plant director Donald Dedrick. 
graduate research laboratory, will also act as a research center for undergraduate assis­tants of professors relocated to that building. A few professors will remain in Nieuwland Sci­ence Hall. 
The new structure, which contains service, prep, instru­ment and conference rooms, "offers us completely new lab space with tremendous flexibil-
The building, which was pro-ity, much better ventilation and jected to cost $9.3 million in 1979, improved storage," said chem­"is going to come in a little over istry department assistant that,'' said Dedrick. ''There were chairman Rudolph Bottei. no major cost overruns." Bottei alsoi noted that plans 
''The north-south half of the for the new building include a building is 90 percent done and machine shop, an electronic the other half is 80 percent shop, an animal room and done," 'Dedrick said. "The whole faculty offices. project, except for minor items, The new labs are fully equip-will be complete in December. I ped with modern features that would hope that by the end of will enable them to accommo-September all site work will be date changes necessitated by completed." ever-advancing scientific appa-
Along with the Fitzpatrick En-ral:\Js. A portion of the north-as well as space on the fifth floor, will be kept vacant for future expansion, Bottei ex­plained. 
"It is a truly functional buildins,'' he said. Dednck, however, described the building as ''complex.'' 
''There were very stringent mechanical requirements from fume exhaust and air makeup, to hot and cold water and electricity," Dedrick said. "An awful lot of mechanical utilities have to be brought to those lab tables.'' 
''The Chemistry Department is grateful to the University for providing us with such great facilities," said Bottei. "It shows great faith in the Chem­istry department." 
"We started to plan the construction of the building about 15 years ago," said Bottei. "It is the culmination of 
BARBARA, (AP) --President Reagan has all

! A(II~IIIES ~1()111 ~ 
but ruled out an airborne system for the MX missile, a

: ~t:>llcletl ~ Au"u§t J1 aWhite House spokesman says. There are increasing signs that he is leaning toward a land­
: 1-Cl (). ~. : 
based plan.* * Deputy White House Press
: Stt?()lietll £t?lltt?r 1Secretary Larry Speakes told reporters Monday that Reagan has made preliminary decisions
* * 
on both the MX and on a new

** * * manned bomber.
:All clubs and organizations wishing to have a table: 
gineering Hall, the _five-story =e=rn=m=os=t==pa=r=t=o=f=th::::e:=::b::::u::ildi="=n~g=,=m=a=ny~y=e=ar=s=o=f=w=o=r=k=.·=·=== 
building fulfills the University's desire to become a great research h al The new Stepan Chemistry Building should be completed institution, Dedrick said. 
Reagan tras es propos
by December ofthis year. S8e related story at nght. [photo ~he !lew cheii?-istry hall, 
by Greg Maurer) whtch wdl serve pnmanly as a 
for airborne MX system

··················••+••····························· * SANTA seek a
Calif. 
* 

: must sign up in Student Activities Office ,
* 
: 1st Floor LaFortune, no later than 4:00 P.M. 
* 
: this Friday, August 28. 
* 
* 
*
* 
John Tower, R-Texas, chairman

••+••······························••+••············ * of the Senate Armed Services Committee, that an airborne MX no longer is under serious
•



: UI?EN
•

: AIIJ[)IIlllUNS !! 
• 

: GE:TTING OUT 
•

e THE IN5iPEI:TEJR 6ENERAJJ 
e
• 
''The president certainly has
* 
made some tentative deci­
: 
sions," Speakes said. "He 
: * knows what direction he wants to go on this. He has not made any flnai decisions."
* 
: Speakes said he could not confirm that Reagan is moving
* 
toward 
a land-based system for•* 

the MX but said "I would not

* 
dispute'' a statement by Sen.


* 
• consideration. If Reagan chooses a land­based system of hiding 200
: missiles among 4,600 shelters in Nevada and Utah, as recom­mended by the Carter adminis­
• 
• 
tration, he wuld be reversing a: position he held during the 1980 presidential campaign. There were published reports last weekend that Reagan may 
: 
sma]ler version of the shelter system, but Speakes refused to confirm that. 
Reagan convened a meetin~ of the National Security Councll in Los Angeles last week to discuss which new strategic weapons systems the United States should adopt to close what he called the nation's 
the bomber and the MX "have 
''window of vulnerability''  to  
Soviet attack.  
Speakes said discussions  on  

been ~oing on for a period of time.' He added that Reagan "has given directions to the secretary of defense as they proceed on the planning on this and has at least made some preliminary decisions on the way he will proceed on it. But he's asked for additional infor­mation.'' 
A spokesman for Sen. Jake Garn said Monday that the Utah and Sen. Paul Laxalt, R-Nev., have been assured by the White House that Reagan will not decide how to base the MX before mid-September. 
Buy 
Observer 
classifieds 

Ji.z; B~ar-aoo~r-J/ i/1/ ~(l;r-o~ f(/' • 
dorm room size 
: a-lb .Ad'-'b~trr-: 
students rates 

CALL

• Wed., August 26,1981 at 7:00 pm e 
: O'Laughlin Auditorium : 







TAYLOR
: Thurs., August 27,1981 at 7:00 pm : • Washington Hall • 
• All Notro Dome/Solnl Mory'o otudento oro encouroaed to olton d. • 

RENTAL

: . 
277-2190

! firfEAil~ ! 

1427 N. Ironwood 
-~,~:-­
•e 


Refrigerators
• 

.-----------------------------~--------------------~-----------------------­
The Observer 
Truck overturns 
Domers escape injury in crash 

By LYNNE DALEY 
Executive News Editor 
A Long Island, N.Y., bag­gage truck destroyed a parked Volkswagen, a portable toll booth and a portable lavatory before finalJy turning over on its side after the brakes of the U-Haul failed at about 8 p.m. last Friday night. 
ND STUDENTS Tom Gees­bach and Rich Murphy, who were alternating at the wheel, sustained only minor injuries in the mishap, which occured at the west gate of the Ohio Turnpike 
Club treasurer Bill Slattery said that the club was insured for $10,000, which, he said, well exceeds any damage in­curred in the inctdent. 
Gersbach said that the U­Haul's brakes "completely fail­ed" as he neared the toll booth. ''I geared down but there was 
no response at all," he said. 
To avoid striking a semi tractor-trailer truck already parked in the toll station, Gersbach said, he swung the truck into a nearby parking area, striking the parked car and the two structures. Then, Gersbach said, he swung the truck sharply to ther left, causing the vehicle to tip over on its side. ' 
"We were only going about 30 or 35 mph," said the driver, "but at the moment all we were really concerned with was our lives." 
The two drivers were trans­ported safely to Notre Dame by Murphy's parents, who had travelled ahead to attend fresh­men activities for another son. 
After reloading the baggage onto another U-Haul, Long Island Club President Frank Brady, who drove to Toledo from Notre Dame on Saturday, completed the trip to Indiana. 
Brady admitted that some of the car~o was damaged-espec­ially btcycles, shelves and other fragile items packed in boxes. Some suitcases, he said, were crushed or ripped. 
Slattery said that the dub was contemplating legal action against the U-Haul company because of the defective brakes, but Brady said that any lawsuit would have to be brought by Gersbach and not the Long Island Club. 
Gersbach, however, said that he did not plan to press charges at this time. 

'Banf-Sadr 

blasts 

Khomeini 
NEW YORK (AP)--Saying the ~overnment of Iran is "break­mg apart, losing ground more and more every day,'' Abol­hassan Bani-Sadr, the former. president oflran, blames much of the nation's recent trouble ~n .Ayatollah Ruhollah Khom­tent. 
"Once he was in power, (Khomeini) was also ignorant of international politics, the economics of the country and the world outside," Bam-Sadr said of CBS-TV's "Face the Nation," broadcast Sunday. 
Bani-Sadr, interviewed in France, said Khomeini has the support of ''15 to 20 percent'' of Iranians and that he is no longer "a symbol of trust, unity." 
''What can you say about a religious man, 85 years old, who is supposed to represent the spirit, the mind, and in­stead of that, he shoots at people ... for the .P,eople oflran, tt's torture," satd Bani-Sadr. 
The former president said during their captivity, the Am­erican hostages were in physi­cal danger, but only because of "a terrorist network that work­ed for the CIA." 






IRISh COUntRy 
W€€kly SP€Clals  
MONDAY:  FAN  APPRECIATION NIGHT  
7-1P.M.  First draft free.  
TUESDAY:  IMPORT NIGHT, AUDITIONS  
NIGHT  Imports $1.00  9-1 P.M.  

WEDNESDAY: OVER THE HUMP NIGIIT. 
53.00 all you can drink 9-12 P.M. THURSDAY: PIZZA NIGHT 6-1 A.M. Free p~tcher o_f beer «:I every large ptZZa. Ltve mustc. 
FRIDAY: HAPPY HOUR 4-7 P.M. Pitcher/ $2.00 3 Drafts/$1.00 Live music Fri. night. 
SATURDAY: LUNCH SPECIALS starting 12 noon. Sandwiches and Ribs Rock & roll by "CRYSTAL" 
every Saturday night IRISH COUNTRY: N.D. Av. and S. Bend Av. Open 2pm-3am. Kitchen open nightly. 
Wednesday, August 26,1981 -page 5 
This student takes great pleasure in making preparations for his dorm room. [photo by greg maurer] 
.·&porter·s i'Jheting 
6:30 fur n.ew r.e.porttr.a 
7:00 fur .staff mtmhtnl 


tutr1Jnnt wdcomt 


r 
The Observer Wednesday, August 26,1981 -page,6 





NEEDED • 
Observer Day Editors 

-Paid position 
~NO experience necessary call Lynne 8661 or 7471 check It out 
25% offa 
Technics 

electronics in stock 
r----------------------------,
I I 
I Discwasher 
I I I $9.95 
I I 
I. Reg. $16.50
I I I I I While 50 last 
I I 
1 With this coupon VOID 9/3 
~----------------------------­

r----------------------------­

10 .l'f.l.a..,_~~:.~..~. UDLY C90 Cassettes S32.99 While 500 last 
with this coupon VOID 9/3
_____________________________J 

Psychological persecution 

Women who comm.it m.urder 
CONCORD, N. M. (AP)--July gague shotgun roars once, and oral sex in a parking lot before 
14: Ana Pelton, down to 88 Henry Szelos, hit in the chest, she could visit their daughter, 
pounds from 120 and psycholo­is dead. how moments later she shot him five times in the abdomen.
gically "a piece of meat," is Holland calls the case classic. home with her husband. Last He says Szelos drove his wife to 
Dunfey sentences Mrs.
nighr, she mailed suicide notes an "irresistable impulse, a spur Kelley, 34, to 15 to 25 years.
to her son and her sister. Now of the moment mental aber­''It was a little hard for theshe's pointing a .25-caliber ration wherein you reallylose court to understand the mentalBeretta at her head. control for a briefperiod of time 
abuse she had been put 
never to do it again."

"Go ahead," says her hus­through,n says Ruth Scribner,
When Mrs. Szelos goes on

band, who's been cheating on of Mrs. Kelley's lawyers.
trial for second-degree murder one 
her for four of their 12 married "A woman should not have to
in October, Holland will argue

years. "It'll save me the cost of walk into court with missing
that his client's actions were 

a divorce. " limbs and her head broken to
justified.

Mrs. Pelton turns the pistol prove she has been provoked.'' and shoots him nine times. She 
Aug. 3: Superior CourtJudge Each year in New Hamp­reloads and fires four more Richard Dunfey hears shire, three or four men areshots. He is hit in the head, the Catherine Kelley describe five charged with killing theirchest--"all over the place," a years of psychological abuse wives. Police know of 324 casesprosecutor says. 
from her ex-husband. She re­of wife abuse last year, and mrs. Pelton, 45, is charged calls the scene 1ast summer, counselors say that's just a with first-degree murder. To­how he demanded $1,000 and fraction of the real count. 
day she is a patient at the state mental hospital. 
"She's a hopeless case," says her lawyer, Thomas Allison, who related the in­cident. ''She doesn't even know he's dead." 
july 29: Priscilla Szelog, 38, mother of three, is home for a day. She was hospitalized, for depression, by her husband-­described in court by her lawyer as a "severe, reprehensible, cruel man who physically, morally, and emotionally abused her over a long, contin­uous period of time. " 
She is alone with him "no more than five minutes and he starts at it again,'' says the lawyer, Frank Holland. A 20­

OBSERVER 
CLASSIFIEDS 

River City Records' 5th Annual BACK TO SCHOOL SALE! 
0 

Now thru Sunday, August 30! 

ALL ALBUMS& TAPES $1.00 OFF! NO LIMIT! 
with ND-SMC l.d. 
(no coupons necessary) 

• 
Thousands of posters for sale • NO-SMC checks always cashed up to · $20.00 over purchase amount

• 
Record crates available 

• 
Bruce Springsteen ticket drawing • Open 10-10,7 days a week 

•All 
blank tapes $1.00 off • Oiscwashers $1.00 off 

• Pick up newest River City Review

• 
Good tickets for Ooobie Brothers­Michael Stanley • Oldie singles $0.75 


and Ozzy Osbourne 
"New Rolling Stones Album Now in Stock " 
River City Records~ 
50970 U.S. 31 North 
3 miles north of campus Owner: Peter Kernan (NO 75)
next to Al's Supermarket General Manager: Chris Kernan (NO 78)
277-4242 


The Observer Wednesday, August 26, 1981 -page 7 
No education? 

U. of Hard Knocks offers respectability 

EVANSVILLE, Ind. (AP) ·· 
J. Henry Ballman always felt a little embarrassed by his lack of formal education. 
But an eighth grade educa­tion has served him well throu~h 71 years. Now, he doesn t have to be a wallflower when he is with college profes­sors, lawyers, doctors. Any­body. 
] . Henry Ballman is the proud owner of a B.S., M.A. and a Ph. D. ll from the University of Hard Knocks. 
''All you need to graduate from the Universityof Hard Knocks is a resume to show that you've been successful in life without a college degree, a black and white photo and $100," says Ballman. 
Before you start thinking that this is just another gim­mick to soak somebody out of a few bucks, let Dr. Ballman' continue. 
"We used to just charge $10," he said. "Then Mr. Comstock decided to charge $100 and turn the money over to the Shriners for their crip­pled children's hospitals. But then mailing expenses and things went up and the $100 covers all of that. Besides, when we ever get too much money, we give it to charity anyway." 
Mr. Comstock is Jim Com­stock, founder ofUHk. A West Virginia newspaperman and humorist, Comstock started UHK to cheer up his partner, who was distressed by his lack of formal education. 
Comstock solved the prob­lem with the presentation of a diploma and the words ''You are now a college graduate." 
Since then, more than 1,200 people have received the black and blue diplomas. UHK even has a campus of sorts. Officials 
HEY! He_y! 
We need YOU 
to work on the Observer 
production staff. Interested? 
Call Mike at 1181 or 8661 
paid positions available 
General meeting for all new and 
old workers Thursda_y at 8:00 
at Alaerson-Broaddus Ct>llege 
in Philippi, W. va. adopted the 
group. 
Ballman was a 1966 grad­
uate. But travelling to West 
Virginia was a problem. Why 
couldn't there be a second 
campus? No one could come up 
with a good reason, so UHK­
Evansville was born. 
The Evansville branch will 
hold its second commencement 
Sept. 26 and award former 
President Harry S. Truman a 
posthumous degree. -"It's just a fun thing. We're 
not in It to fool anybody or 
make any money,'' says Ball­
man. 
"I felt for a long time that 
college people looked at others 
as second class," Ballman 
said. "But I finally said, 'Hey, 
SEATILE (AP)-­
Convicted spy Christopher Boyce was ordered held under $500,000 bail yesterday by a 
U.S. magistrate and told to appear at a preliminary hear­ing Sept. 3. 
Boyce, brought in handcuffs from a holding cell to the federal courtroom, aP.peared before Magistrate Phillip K. Swiegert. He was captured in a Port Angeles, Wash., restaurant Friday night, 19 months after eluding authorities. since his escape from a California prison Jan. 21, 1980. 
Boyce refused to respond when Swiegert asked him if he understood the escape char~e filed against him, but his lawyers said they were satis­fied he understood. 

I'm just as good as these people.''' 
Indeed, Ballman worked his way up from welder to regional sales director for a large manu­facturer. He is retired but far from inactive. 
He's looking for ,t>eople who have made it without the benefit of a real college diplo­ma. The definition ofsuccess is left up to the individual. 
"I have a nice home that's free of debts,'' Ballman says of himself. "I've been married to the same woman for 40 years. We still love doing things together. 
"And I've had an awful lot of fun-I can't think of anyone with any number of degrees who's had more fun in life as I have." 
Bail for convicted sp)r set at $500,000 
At the hearinh Sept. 3, the government will have to show probable cause that Boyce is the person named in the charge and must present a certified California arrest war­ant. Swiegert reiterated that Boyce ultimately wil be return­ed to California. 
Boyce was convicted in 1977 of selling highly classified in­formation deahng with U.S. sattelite surveillance systems from the TRW plant in Redon­Do Beach, Calif., where he worked from mid-1974 until 1976 as a security clerk. 
A confederate and boyhood friend, Andrew Daulton Lee, 29, was arrested outside the Soviet Embassy in Mexico City ten days before Boyce was picked up . Lee was sentenced to life in prison. 
I UNION





-----------------·STUDENT I
I I
USED BOOK EXCHAt-IGE 
I In LaFortune I 
I I Book Dtop-oHs ­I
ISale-Thull. & 
Fri. 3-6 I I 
I I 
'----------------~ 
Balltoom I 
I 
I 
Today 3-6 I 
II 




RENT TO OWN 
-no down payment -no credit check -monthly payment 
can be done over the phone 
we also have TVs 


SUN APPLIANCES 
291-5112 
....--------­
The Observer 

Taka~, Japan town home owner smiles from the roof ofhis mostly s~bmerged dwelling Monday as floodwaters spawned by Typhoon Thad cover the town, located near the swollen J(jgai river, 35 km (21 miles] from Tokyo. [AP] 
Thursday, August 27 
The ...rchere Warner Brothers 1956 (119 min.) John Ford directed John Wayne and the young Natalie Wood in this classic Western based on Frank S. Nugent's 
script. In technicolor, with music by Max Steiner. 
MUSEUM OF ART 7:30 pm admission S 1.00 sponsored by the ND-SMC 
COMMUNICATION & THEATRE 
This is the store that 
saves you money 

'Wli!IIA'Q 
Genuine 

----------------------~-------------~--------~---~ 
Wednesday, August 26,1981 -page 8 
Opposed to new program 

Doctors threaten walk from hospital 
GARY, Indiana (AP) --doc­tors ar St. Mary Medical Center say they may atay away from the hospital unless adminis­trators revamp a new ambula­tory care program. 
"We are opposed to the mechanics of the program,'' said Dr. Felipe S. Chus, a physician with a private who also works at the medical center. ''It was instituted with­out due consultation with the officers of the medical staff. 
''The American Hospital As­sociation guideline is quite specific: the medical staff ferring their patientsto differ­ent hospitals in the Gary area. 
He stressed that the action would by an individual decision for each of the 240 doctors who use the medical center, and would not involve and withhold­ing of medical care. 
Chua was optimistic that a settlement would be reached at a meeting of the hospital's governing board in the next two weeks. 
The hospital's plan to coax doctors to Gary by offering a generous salary is in response to a doctor shortage in northern Indiana, Chua said. 

He noted that a federal gov­ernment survey pegged Gary as a "medically unserved area." 
He approved the idea of giving incentive to doctors to stay in northern Indiana, but said the medical staff at St Mary would favor a plan where the hospital would give new physians a financial incentive during the first year of service in exchange foe a commitment by the doctors to stay in Gary. 
should first be consulted," Chus said Monday. 
NRC arranges hearings
Chua said St. Mary's doctors object to the fact the doctors recruited for the new program would be paid a salary and 

on Bally Nuclear plant 
given office space and staff at the medical center, instead of working on a patient-by­patient basis. 
He said a salary for doctors borders on socialized medicine, "and that's not good for the medical profession." 
chua, who is president of the medical staff, said i£, a com­promise isn't reached on the ambulatory care program, St. Mary's doctors could start re-
notified Northern Indiana Public Serice Co. that no further construction will be allowed until the piling ouestion is resolved. 
• The NRC ruling, which came Thrusday, does nothing more than implement a U.S. circuit court of Appeals 'Uling handed down last month, Strasma said. 
There is little practical effect, however, since NIPSCO vol­untarily ended the pile-driving program in 1977. 
In its ruli~g, the appeals court satd NIPSCO s proposal to install shorter foundation pilings than called for in its onginal design was a significant enough design change to warrant public hearinss. Before that, the NRC, 10 a split decision, has app~oved the short pilings 
destgn. 
Meanwhile, the NRC 
Atomic Safetr. and Licensing Committee wdl also hold a hearing on NIPSCO s request to extend its Bailly construction permit. 
Strasma said interested parties have 30 days from the time of the pilings hearing notice shows up in the Federal Register to respond. Because of the schedule of the three­member panel, the hearing probably will be pushed into 1982, he said. 
He said the same three­member panel will rule on both the piling qustion and the permit extension, "but the decisions will be rendered sepa­rately.'' 
The hearin~ will involve questions ratsed over safety factors related to pilings at the $1.8 million, 644-megawatt plant on the shores of Lake Michigan near Burns Harbor. 
The city of Gary and the state of Illinois are among the groups asking for a "show cause" order that would have ended building of the plant . 
Each contends NIPSCO has not prel;'ared suitable plans for evacuauon of northwest Indiana and eastern Illinois in the event of an accident at Bailly. 
Opponents say that pilings driven into the soil are not stron~ enough to support the buildmg that will house the reactor. 
NIPSCO chairman Edmund Schroer late last month pointed to regulatory, legal and political delays and hinted that Bailly will be scrapped if its projected 1989 completion deadline 
cannot be met. 
HAMMOND* Ind. 
(AP( -It probably will be sometime next year before hearings can be held by the Nuclear Regulatory Comm­ission on the foundation piling design of the Bailly Nuclear Generating station, an NRC spokesman said Monday. 
Spokesman Jan Strasma at the NRC's regional office in · said the commission has 


.------------------------------------~~-------------­



Editorials 
Wednesday, August 26,1981 -page 9 
Is Reagan looking for a fight?
15 years of service 
Celebrating our 15th anniversary year, The Observer returns to greet you for another tumultuous school term. While most of you were spending the hot summer toiling away at some boring job you've no doubt explained hundreds of times to friends by now, some of us were working hard to bring you an improved product for the 1981-82 school year. 
Perhaps the most noticeable of our improvements has been the addition of a new feature from The Associated Press -­the A.P Wirephoto service. This will enable us to bring you up-t6-date, pertinent news and sports photos from around the world to supplement the A.P news servuce already used 
by The Observer. 
Other improvements in our photography department will soon enable us to reproduce clearer, sharper pictures of campus and local events and personalities. Also, twice per week, the familiar "Inside" column will be replaced by a monta~e . of the best of A.P's most recent wirephoto transmtsstons. 

**15th Anniversary Year** 
Speaking of columns, several new authors of note will be appearing on our pages in the near future. On the editorial pages, the renowned essays of leading conservative tntellecrual William F. Buckley, Jr., began appearing in our first issue last Saturday, and noted author Garry Wills makes his debut on this page today. On the sports pages, one of the nation's finest sports columnists, Jim Murray from The Los Angeles Times, will begin running next week. 
Studious observers of this _paper may notice one other change as well --the Classified section has been moved inside the paper. This was to facilitate the movement of the Today page to the inside back page, making it easier for you to read quickly the lineup for each day's campus events. Note also that we have added a new feature on the Today page-­local television listings. We hope they are of use to you. 
Some things have remained the same. The news department will continue to provide the most recent, accurate coverage possible in aodition to regular features such as the "Q&A.," in which both campus and national personalities are interviewed, and the daily "Focus," where to-depth articles from both Observer and Associated Press writers appear. 
And as always, we invite your participation. The Observer is one of the few daily college pa{'ers in the country without a journalism department behind lt --we do it all ourselcves (except for the actual printing). A.s you might guess, that takes a lot of people. Even if you have no experience, come see us on the third floor of LaFortune. You'll be {'art of a first-rate organization which is trying constantly to 1mprove. A.nd we hope you notice this improvement in the cominH year. 
OnJune 8, 1967, the Naval intelligence ship Liberty was sailing, alone, 10 neutral wa­ters, flying our flag. After six hours of low-level photo re­conaissance by Israeli planes, jet aircraft and to!J?edo boats tried to sink the L1berty and kill all its crew. Rocket and torpedo as­saults crippled the ship, and napalm was dropped on deck to spread through the interior and prevent survivors. 
In fact, the ship limped to, safety, and only 34 Americans were killed, instead of the full 
287. But the napalm (un­doubtedly supplied to Israel by A.menca) took its toll--171 were injured. 
I referred to this attack in a recent column, and corres­pondents made it sound as if I were committing an aggres­sion by mentioning the ag­gression on our ship. Three correspondents defended the Israeli attack by calling our ship's presence in neutral waters "provocative." We had been warned to stay away. Israel was about to launch its attack on Syria, and did not want us listening in. 
I do not think the presence of one ship, in international waters, without offensive ca­pability, near an allied coun­try's shore, was provocnive-­certainly not ,erovocative e­nough to justify killing 287 Americans (as the attackers tried to do)--or even 34 Amer­icans (which was as many as they could manage). But I would wager that my corres­pondents think it was heinous of Libyan planes to scramble when a hostile fleet with aggressive potential ostenta­tiously maneuvered just off the Libyan coast. Now we shall hear a great deal about 
About the Author: Garry Wills, the author of severt:ll books, including the high/'acclaimed Nixon A.gonistes tn 1970and a recent revisionist's view ofthe Federalist Papers, is a regular contributor to 
Esquire, New York, Playboy and The New York Ttmes Magazine. He is a sch~lar of the clasics, currently a hu­manities professor at johns Hopkins University, and is a former Catholic seminarian. In addition, his syndicated column "Outrider, " which appears in over 70 pape_rs around the country, contatns the best and most topical of Wills' reflections on Amenc-· a's political, social and econo­mic happenings. ''Outn'der'' will appear every Wednesday in The Observer. 
international waters and the freedom of the seas. Now the "provocation" will be retired. 
Some people in this admin­istration seem to be aching for a fight. And parts of the public are egging those people on. When Secretary Wemberger told the Veterans ~fFroeign Wars, on Wednes-


P.O. BPX Q 
Grad speaker 
thanks Hesburgh for Gipp award 
Editor's Note: the following letter was sent to University President Fr. Theodore Hesburgh last May, from the White House in Washington. 
Dear Fr. Hesburgh: 
have just read your most heartwarming letter and want you to know it is I who should be thanking you; thanking you for a most wonder­ful day. 
I opened m) certificate of mem­bership in the Monogram Club and found to my surprise there were two. 
I was very much moved to discover one was for George Gipp. Let me assure you, that one will be par­ticularly treasured. 
Again my thanks on behalf of Nancy and myself and our party. On the plane ride back to Washington, everyone was in a glow over the warmth of hospitality and the great spirit of the graduating class. They were really wonderful and you must be very proud of them. 
Ronald Reagan Washington, D.C. 

Kelly responds to editorial 
Dear Editor: 
In response to the editorial o April 29, we in the Department o Non-Varsity Athletics feel our chief goal is equitable competition for as many students as possible. To these 
ends, the living unit is the basic unit of competition and Off-Campus is a legitimate living unit voluntarily selected by students choosing that particular lifestyle. Throughout the years, Off-Campus has been a viable, indeed highly competitive part of our program. Many students feel strongly about the opportunity to represent Off-Campus and have little desire to be "attached" to a hall. 
Periodically, we review our program and value student input. The issue of Off-Campus participation was raised two years ago, and dis­cussed thoroughly with hall presi­dents and off-campus representatives. It was clearly evi­dent that all concerned felt very strongly that Off-Campus is an in­tegral and desirable part of our total 
program. 
Tom Kelly Director ofNon-Varsity Athletic.~ 
Gurry Wills 
Outrider 

day, that we had shot down two Libyan planes, his words were greeted with long and intense applause. Weinberger called the incident regretta­ble. But these super patriots showed no regret. For them, pretty cl~arly, killing people 1s a busmess we should get back into. 
And Muammar Khadafy is, pretty clearly, the guy we would like to kill. The CIA. has already broached plans for his overthrow with the consres­sional oversight commmee. Against that background, our presence off Khadafy's shore does look deliberately provoc­ative. Were we daring him to attack? 
If so, we can settle his hash--as we determined to settle Castro's back in the 1960s. Khadafy is a threat to peace--so we had better go to war with him, to prevent him from starting a war. It is convenient for Secretary Weinberger, who wants us armed to the teeth, to have an incident that proves we need all the arms we can get, just at a time when other Reagan 
officials  are  showing dismay  
at  the  military  budget's  
growth.  

The demonizing of Khadafy will proceed apace. Now, I am willing to grant that Khadafy is a demon. I do not so much wonder at the devil as at the exorcists who are volunteer­ing to drive him out. When we decided to knock off Castro, we gave no thought to the question: What do we do with Cuba after we get rid of him? Earlier, when we conni­ved at Ngo Dinh Diem's downfall in Saigon, we at least had a few candidates. to replace him--though they turned out to be even worse than he was. 
That is normally the case. The CIA. wants to expel demons, all around the world, but it has not sufficiently studied the wisest bit of demonology in the whole New Testament. I quote from the Gospel of Luke (11:24-26): ''When a demon is driven from a man, it wanders the 
waterless places looking for surcease; and finding none, says, 'I will return to the lodging I was driven from.' And arriving there it finds the lodgin~ swept and in order. Then tt goes and ~athers seven other demons, wtckeder than itself; and entering, they dwell there, and the man's last state is worse than his 
.first." 

The warmongers among us are not driving out one devil, they are shopping for seven devils. And they always leave us in a worse mess than we started with. 
Universal Press Syndicate 
Editorial Board and Department Managers 
==Ihe Obse~er== 
Editor-in-Cbief. ....................................... .}ohn McGrath SMC Executive Editor .....................Mary Agn~s Catty
Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 

Managing Editor ......................................Tom Jackman SMC News Editor ................................Cathy Domanico
The Observer is an independent newspaper published by the students of rhe 
E.r:ecultve News Editor ..............................Lynne Daley Photo Editor..................................................John Macor
University of Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. It does· not nnessarily 
News Editor .............................................Tim Vercellolli 
reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported 
Business Manager ....................................Rich Coppola as accurately and as objectively as possible. Editorials represent the opinion of a Senior Copy Editor ................. ...... Mary Fran Callahan Controller.......................................................Joc Mulftur majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, opinions, and letters are the views Sports Editor .........................................Michael Ortman Advertising Manager ............................ : ......... Mark Ellis of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community. and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged. 
Circulation Manager ........................Tom MacLennan 

~-----~ ~-----------~~-~­
The Observer Wednesday, August 26, 1981 -page 10 

THIS BUD'S FOR Y:OUR 
INTRAMURAL PROGRAM 
Why buy generic beer when you can get a quality product for only a few extra 
pennies per 12 ounce serving? In addition, we will donate one dollar per half keg to your notre dame intramural athletic fund for each keg you purchase from us. (August 26 thru September 30) 
Current Prices ( plus deposit and tax) 
V2 keg  ~  keg  
BUDWEISER  $34.00  $20.00  
MICHELOB  $38.00  $21.00  
STROH'S  S33.00  $20.00  
BUSCH  S33.00  
HEINEKIN  $65.00  - 
STROH LIGHT  $30.00  - 
NATURAL LIGHT  S33.00  - 
MICHELOB LIGHT  $38.00  $21.00  

Taps-Cups-Ice-Always in Stock Get-Decorations for your Rooms 
* Ask about your opportunity * for 2 Football tickets 
This offer applies only to ND-SMC students of legal drinking age and faculty. 
uOURS:  8:30AM to 4:45 PM Daily 9:00AM to 11:00 am Sat.  
287-1067  840 Prarie Ave  
BEER COMPANY  

---~-----~------~---~---~ ---~--­




~~()rts~J3~r~i;e~S~=========================w=e=dn=e=sd=ay='=Au~g=us=t=26='=t9=8t==-=P=~=e~ll 
by The Ohwrt•cr .lnd Tht• A.r.rnaaled Prerr 

Kuhn 
Football tix to be distributed 


supports
Meetings for ... 
Football ticket distribution begins next week. All Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students who purchased season 

benefit 
...women's cross country 
fo?tball tickets during the summ<:r should report to the ticket (AP) Baseball Commissionerw10dows at Gate 3 of the Athlenc and Convocation Center. 
Bowie Kuhn has expressed his . Notre Dame women interested in training and competing The following dates have been designated for picking up support for a benefit game form cr?ss country this fall a:e invited to an organizational student football tickets: Seniors--Tuesday, Sept. 1. Juniors injured Indiana University bas­meeung tomorrow at 7 p.m. 10 the basement lounge of Lyons and all undergraduate students in their ninth semester or ketball star Landon TurnerHall. For more information, contact Pat\Sullivan at 277-4291. higher·· Thursday, Sept. 3. Freshmen·· Friday, Sept. 4. The between the Indianapolis ticket windows will be open from 8 a.m. until 5 p.m.
--The Observer 
Indians and Iowa Oaks.
including the noon hour. The Gate 3 doors of the ACC will be All proceeds from ticketopen at 7:30 a.m. The football ticket committee reminds sales for the American Associa­students that the seats in the student section have not been tion game will go to help pay... ND's Water polo Club preassigned by the Ticket Office. Therefore, if a student Turner's medical expenses. 
wishes to sit wtth a specific classmate, he must present both Tonight's game will be pre­IDs for adjacent seanng. No student may present more than ceded by a home run hittingNotre Dame's Water Polo Club will be holding an four IDs. Band members and prospective band members contest which will feature theorganizational meeting tomorrow at 7 p.m. in the LaFortune should check with band officials regarding ticket distribution pitching of IU basketball coach Student Center. The upcoming season will be discussed. All procedures. Married students who purchased tickets during Bobby Knight. 
are invited to attend. For more information, please contact the summer should report to the ACC with their respective Turner, who is 6-10 andPat McDivitt at 8315. ·· The Observer. 
class on the scheduled day. When picking up their tickets, would have been a senior thisthey must present evidence of their marital status. Any fall, was injured seriously in astudent who has not filled out a 1981 student football ticket july 25 auto accident nearapplication may do so before Sept. 1 at the ticket office on the Columbus, Ind. He has been... OC interhall football second floor of the ACC. Since the June 21 deadline has paralyzed since the accident. 
passed, ticket availability will be on a conditional basis.•. 
A Methodist Hospital
The Observer.
_Off campus students interested in playing interhall football 
spokesman said Monday that thts fall are invited to an organizational meeting tomorrow at 
Turner has been transferred 7 p.m. in the LaFortune Ballroom. If you cannot attend or 
from the intensive care unit have any questions contact Matt Huffman at 232-0921. .. The 
and will be admitted as soon as
Braves stay atop NL West 
Observer. 
a bed is available in the special ~pin~l cord care unit for rehab­
Bruce Benedict slammed his first major league bases­Ilitative care. 
loaded home run and Chris Chambliss added a homer and... Fighting Irish baseball five runs batted in last night as the visiting Atlanta Braves crushed Philadelphia 12-2, snapping a four-game Phillies Notre Dame students interested in tryin~ out for fall winning streak. The Braves ripped 20-year-old Mark Davis, 


Reds refuse 
baseball are invited to an important meetin~ this afternoon at 0-1, who was recalled this week from Oklahoma City in the 
4:30 in the ACC auditorium. Returmng players and American Association, for six runs in the first inning. In 

guide to
interested newcomers are asked to bring a pen or pencil. ·· Montreal, Gary Carter drove in six runs, four of them with 
his fifth career grand slam home run, to power the Expos to a
The Observer. 
9-1 triumph over the Cincinati Reds. At Wrigley Field in Chicago yesterday afternoon, Leon "Bull" Durham and Bill 
Penthouse 
Buckner each drove in two runs sparking the Chicago Cubs to their third straight victory, a 4-3 triumph over the San Diego •CINCINNATI (AP)--A free­Padres. Ken Kravec, 1-3,/osted his first National League lance writer who says the succuss since being trade by the White Sox before the Cincinati Reds refused to sendSince May.... season. He didn't allow a hit until the sixth inning when him a media guide because heBroderick Perkins led off with a single and yielded only three writes for ''Penthouse'' maga­hits in the seven innings he worked. Kravec also scored the zine has complained to NationalHunter tours country with ABC first run of the game. New York rookie Mookie Wilson 
League President Charles
walloped a leadoff home run in the eighth inning off ace Feeney.
Houston releiver Joe Sambito to send the Mets and recently Allen Sonnenschein of NewJunior wingback Tony Hunter was among the half-dozen reactivated pitcher Mike Marshall to a 2-1 victory over the York contends that his requestcollege football players chosen to participate in the seventh Houston Astros. In St. Louis,'Tom Griffin worked out of jams was rejected by the club be­annual NCAA-ABC Football Promotion Tour this summer. 
in the third and sixth innings, hurling the San Francisco cause of its views toward theBeginnin~ with Kings Island, Ohio, on Aug. 1, the group Giants to a 4-2 triumph over the Cardinals. Dodger men's magazine. A copy of the stopped 10 New York, Boston, New Orleans, Dallas San pinch-hitter Rick Monday singled home the winning run of an letter th~t he purported to write Francisco and finally Los Angeles on Aug. 8. The tou~ was 11-inning slu£fest to lead visiting Los Angeles to a 9-7 victory to Feeney was reprinted yester­~ade to promote the value of college athletics in academic 
over the Pittsburgh Pirates. --AP 
dar, in the Cincinnati Post. quarterback Art Schlichter and Brigham Young quarterback 
hfe. Other athletes participating included Ohio State 
'The Cincinnati team's/ub­Jim McMahon. -· The Observer. 
licity spokesman informe me that the club refuses to send to
Lamp shines until ninth 
''Penthouse''any material that is, nevertheless, available to
Dennis Lamp, in only his second start of the season, carried

Kleine transfers to Arkansas 
the rest of the print media,"l1 no-hitter into the ninth inning last night before Robin Yount Sonnonschein said in the letter. 
Joe Kleine left Notre Dame in May saying that he would led off with a double as the visiting Chicago White Sox beat "I was told that the club does not return. He was true to his word. The 6-11 center who the Milwaukee Brewers 5-1. Lamp walkea Cecil Coo_per on not enjoy the content of 'Pent­shared the starting duties on the Notre Dame bask~tball four pitches with two out in the ftrst inning, then reured 22 house''' team with Tim Andree, says he left ''for,ersonal reasons." consecutive Brewers before Yount's bloop double into short ''For the Cincinnati baseball He will enroll this fall at the University o Arkansas, but will left-center field. Left fielder Rusty Kuntz made a diving team to make a unilateral not be allowed to play basketball for one year, because of attempt to catch the ball but lost the shutout as Yount came decision about the appropriate­around to score on a pair of groundouts. The right-hander,NCAA regulations on transfers. •· The Observer. 
ness of this magazine to printacquired from the Chicago Cubs on March 28 in exchange for articles which deal with base­pitcher Ken Kravec, relied on a sharp breaking sinker to ball, and a decision based onstrike out six brewers. Lamp entered the game with a 2.08 
caprice and whim, goes bc:yondWedding bells ring for Irish earned run average, lowest on the White Sox staff and the most blatant attempts at
compiled primarily in long releif--AP 
censorship of what the citizensSeveral Notre Dame athletes of the past and present in this country may read and marche~ down the aisle over the ,summer m~nths. Among where they may read about it.''
those rymg the knot were last years football tn-captain Tom Reds publicity director JimGibbons to '81 Saint Mary's graduate Lexi Swedish; Dave Tigers get back on track Ferguson said the club hacf noHuffman ('78), ex-ND center now with the Minnesota official comment regarding theVikings, who married in July; current Irish co-captain Bob In ?thc:;r America~ League g~mes last night, the red-hot Jeter.
Crable on July 25; and fellow linebacker John Rice who wed Detroit :r•gers kept nght on rolhng as Lance Parrish singled "There's a lot of fiction in theNotre Dame senior Beth Higgins on June 27. Hooked hockey h?me ptnch-run.n~~ Mick Kelleher in the lOth inning as the letter," Fer~uson said. "Heplayers include juniors Jeff Perry, John Higgins and Mark Tigers edged v1s1t10g Kansas City Royals 4-3. Detroit has (Sonnonschem( was told thatDoman. -· The Observer now won 10 of 11 and leads the AL East by two games. Mario we did not provide the articlesMendoza drove in two runs with a double and Buddy Bell that he wanted for magazines of slammed a sol? home run to back the four-hit pitching of that type. We don't send themFerguson J enkms as the Texas Rangers defea ·.d Toronto out just because everybodyAragon, Rothstein, Blake excell Jays 6-1, the fourth straight loss for the host Blue Jays. In wants a free media guide. 
New York, D!lrrel Jackson an~ J ~rry Koosman pitched out of ''We told him that the mediaAt the National Sports Festival in Syracuse, N.Y., this trouble (t":'e ttmes m the ftrst stx mrungs to push the Twins to guides were available at theJuly, Pasquerilla East freshman Bunny Blake finished a 3-0 Vllctory over the Yankees. Len Barker tossed a regular price, and all of aseventh in the senior women's figure skating competition. In three-hitter at host Oakland as the Indians blankes the A's sudden it became a 'freedom of January 1980, Blake was one of two skaters who represented 2-.o. In ~\.nahe.im, Bobby ~ri~h's two-run single to Left Field the press' issue"the United States at the Junior World Championships in wtth .one out m the lOth mmng gave the Angels a dramatic Ferguson said that the clubMegeve, France. Other Notre Dame students competing in 8-7 vtctbry over the Boston Red Sox. Jim Rice belted his 12th rejects many requests--at leastthe NSF included senior hockey player Bill Rothstein and ho~e run of t~e season with one two out in the top of the lOth 50 to 7"> a year--for the $3middle distance runner Chuck Aragon ('81). The Observer to lift Boston 10to a 7-6 lead. But the angels, who trailed 6-0 booklets that contain team andwill carry more on Aragon and Rothstein in tomorrow's after a half inning, rallied. In the other late west coast game, edition. •· The Observer. Baltimore defeated Seattle, 6-5 in 12 innings.--AP 
See REDS page 14 

~~-~-------~~------­
The Observer Wednesday, August 26,1981 -page 12 



• • • NFL 
but one has not materialized. 
"It was determined at this time not to waive a quarter­back," he said. 
In St. Louis, former purdue university running back Ben McCall was placed on the injured reserve list and free safety Ken Stone and punter Larry Swider were released, helping the Cardinals reduce therr roster to 50 players. 
McCall, Purdue's second­leading rusher last season with 507 yards, is a free agent 
[continued from page 16] 

chose not to cut one of their quarterbacks yesterday, club spokesman Jim Saccomano said the Bronco management has been talking to other clubs about the possibility of a trade, trying out with the Cardinals. 
Stone, 30, started nine NFL games in 1980, leading the team in interceptions with five. Swider, who signed on as a free asent 1st fall, ranked fourth m National Conference punting with a 41.5 average. 
The departure of Swider left St. Louis punting in the hands 
of Carl Bl.rdsong, who joined the NFL team after he was released this summer by the Buffalo Bills. 




NOTRE DAME FANS!! 
ANNOUNCING 
~ 

Devoted exclusive]!,: 
( Th:)Foot~all  toNOTRE DAME  
Report  FIGHTING IRISH  
'---------­ FOOTBALL  

THE THUNDER IS BACK! 
Subscribe now! The ilwnber one publication for America's number one team: 
THE FOOTBALL REPORT ­
Inside Notre Dame football. 
The Football Report 
All the achon packed ucnement of NotTt> Dame lootba:l now Is available 
With 11 subscr1plk>n to The Footboll Report You'll get the total ~otre Dame lootl:wll1 story with Jo.ds of phot01 · 20 times a yur (9 monlhk; IMues · · 11 weekly updalea during football MMOn) Kickoff Issue !Cheduled In August 
Here's what you'D receive • Compl.lll! Noire Dame football game stones Bt summaries • A glance at neJCI week's opponent • FuU statistics •In~ • An Inside look at Notre Dame football recruiting • What's going on around Big 10 
A one·yeat subsc:11pUon IS yours for only $19 95 Purchased on the newss tand these samo.' 20 1ssues would COlli $30 00 save 34% Order Th .' Football R.,ort today F!ll In the coupon below (send along payment or charge your credit card) and mall II back to The Football R.,on P 0. Box 477, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 
Order your subscription now and receive the 28 p< ge kickoff edition in August featuring a . prevl•·w of the 1981 team, including coach Faust s freshman recruits, analysis of the Lout! lana State opener, a complete report of the spring game and much, much more. 
Don't mlu out · Subscribe Now 


{Xovoted eKcluslvely to 
Th• 

Football­NOTRE DAME 
1 

Report FIGHTING IRISH FOOTBAll 
""'·. '( 

Follow the Fighting Irish from the premier ·issue right through the championship season ... The Foot­ball Report will feature coach Faust in the kickoff issue, including an in­side look at his remarkable record right through. his first spring under the Golden dome. Don't miss ltl 
A perfect gift /or the Irish fan, student and parent THE FOOTBALL REPORT 
ORDER TODAY
P.O. Box 47:' 
Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 
Please entell' my subscription enclosed Is my payment of $19.95. 
Indiana residents add 4% sales tax. 

Signature 0 Charge my Master Charge 0 Charge my VISa 
Name 1111 1111 1 1 
Interbank No 111111 Eap Date 111
Address _______________ 
Mo Yea• 

City --------------­
A Fan Action Publication State---------------An Independent N-.paper 
• first class mall add $20.00 to price 
The Observer Wednesday, August 26, 1981 -page 13 
... Itents r-------olscoVER_A________, 
(continued from page 16] 
back room of some bar after a grueling game and imbibe together. One of the unusual customs is the "elephant walk," in which members of both teams strip, put one hand between their legs so the person behind can hold onto it, and with the other hand hold the person's hand in front of them. 
Well, word of this custom got back to Dean of Srudents James Roemer, among others, who promptly banished every participant from the team. The story finally got around to Playboy magazine, which printed an account of the story in the "After Hours" section of their September issue (that's also the football preview issue, which, of course, was the only reason I ws 
reading it --honest, Mom). 
(continued from page 16] 
ly seemed moved by Faust's description of standing on the practice field and hearing strains of the Victory March being played by the band as ther, march around campus. 
' He's sure a rousing guy," remarked Indianapolis News reporter Ray Compton. "It's hard to see him doing poorly.'' 
Faust is doing his best to live up to that prediction. "We're shaping up. We've beenJ'ush­ing the players real har this ~ek," he reported. "I don't think I could ltve through a 6-5 season. 
"The real reason I think we're going to be a good team is that the guys are so close with each other,'' he con­tinued. "At practice, we have time to laugh, time to kid around, time to tell stories once and a while ... they enjoy being out there.'' 
The Irish start to do some serious hitting tomorrow. Goal­line scrimmaging is on the agenda, while the first full­scale scrimmage is slated for Sarurday in the stadium. Then the coaching staff will get its first real look at the new freshmen, who are just now starting to work with the first and second units. 
"We wanted them to fully understand the offenses and the defenses before they really started playing," Faust ex­plained, because there's no sense in risking an injury by trying to find out real quickly who can play. I'll be able to evaluate them better after they've scrimmaged." 
The guarterback picrure may look a little clearer, too, as the battle between Blair Kid and tim Koegel grows stronger every day. 
''They both look great,'' Faust noted. "They're pushing each other and making each other better quarterbacks." 
Faust did admit there was one position that concerned him a little, but he wouldn't 
(The Observer sports stuff is still looking for new people 
Interested? Call 8661 and leave your name and telephone number. 
The magazine quoted an unidentified rugger: "We may not be Notre Daem rugby players anymore, but we're still rugby players. We're gomg to play together, because we love the game and the relationships that accompany it.'' The magazine's response: "l\ot to mention the view.'' 
WHERE ARE THEY NOW? -· Graduated Observer sports staffer Brian Beglane is now the Assistant Public Relations Director for Enter­prise Radio, the national sports radio network based in Avon, Conn. 
And everyone's favorite columnist, Frank La Grotta, is now covering the Buffalo Bills for the Rochester Democrat and Chronicle. Let's just hope the Bills never play the Pittsburgh Seeders ... or Notre Dame. 
... Writers 
say which for fear of tipping 
the opposition. 
"I may have only been a 
high school coach, but I'm not 
that dumb,'' he laughed. 
IRISH ITEMS -· The players 
reported to camp on Aug. 17 as 
what head trainer John Whit­
mer called ''the finest physical­
ly conditioned group I've seen in my 12 years here" ... besides the addition of the freshmen, other roster changes include new jersey numbers for d~fensive tackle Pat Kramer . (from 98 to 97), and converted tight ends pete Buchanan (35 to 95) and Ron Mishler (60 to 
90) ... Center Larry kissner has been moved to guard to give the offensive line some depth ... Senior cornerback Mike Masini, a walk-on from St. Joseph, Mich., was granted 
WE HONOR BOTH 

a scholarship this fall ... A few minor injuries have temporarily sidelined Phil Carter (ham­string), harry Oliver (pulled muscle), Jack Shields (bruised ankle), and Rob McGarry (sprained knee) ... Van Pearcy is still rehabilitating the knee he damaged while long jump­ing in Texas, and jumor Jeff Lueken's recovery from knee surgery may put him back in action by October... Four grid­ders -· backs Dave Berry, Dan Stone and John Skronski, and lineman Pete Grogan --are through playing for the Irish but are still on the field as part-time coaches ... each one was plagued by serious injury, and was therefore asked to remain at Notre Dame on academic rather than athletic scholarship. 
MOST UNUSUAL STORE 
(JUAllTY READY·TO·FINISH PURNffURE 
oak

bar stools 
ramzn stereo unit.~ 
pine 
I

desks maple walnut I 
I

benches I 
I

and others I 
NATURALLY WOOD 
256 1300 

I 
I

L--E!!!!'!!_~!!!f.r.z!!!.?PPi!!lL.f~~!:.--J 
I 

..,. I

---------------------------------------,ANYTHING GROWS 
FLORIST -campus delivery House Plants Gifts, Corsages 
HOUSE PLANTS GIFTS, TELEFLORIST WIRE FLOWERS 
272-8820 
N. IROt~WOOu 
at 
TOLL ROAD 

DIRECTLY I:AST of CAMPUS 1I4mi. N. of Douglas 
25% DISCOUNT FOR HOUSE PLANTS 
PRESENT THIS COUPON NO-SMC 8/81 

L--------------------------------------· 
YWARM ATMOSPHERE 
11 A Tavern That's More Than a Tavern" 
Welcomes Back ND and SMC Students With Student Specials 
EVERY WEDNESDAY, BEGINNING TONIGHT $2 Pitchers with student id's Live band starting Sept. 4 
NO cover charge on Band Night 
_A_
Open til 2am daily Mon-Sat Carry-out til 3am daily 
LIVE MUSIC AND DANCING 
Beer, Wine, Liquor and Food to Go Pinball, Pool, Video Games 
511 South Michigan Street, South Bend 
~ bl)•'1"4 ~ •'1"4 9 vi  /campUS I angela  
~ +-1 g 1;1) ....-I ('()  [81  easy to get to  
south st.  

-,.·~"'W"" ...:;....-..­




J~------~--------------~·~n,,~~
'--------·-----·--= .. ·-----------------­
-
The Observer Wednesday, August 26, 1981 -page14 
~ 
I 
I 
' 
Adjusting well 
Freshman Roster 

Frosh feel right at home 
NAME NOPOS HT WT HOMETOWN 
Bars, Joe 87 DL 6-5215 Farmington, Ml Bavaro, Mark 82 TE 6-4 240 Danvers, MA -Behmer, Brian 13 SE 6-5 200 Brecksville, OH ' Brooks, Mark 35 FB 6-3 215 Cincinnati, OH Doerger, Tom 50 c 6-5 235 Cincinnati, OH Fazio, Joe 60 OL 6-4 250 Willingboro, NJ Finnegan, Robbie 96 TE 6-3 230 Richardson, TX Gann, Mike 78 DL 6-5 240 Lakewood, CO Golic, Mike 55 DL 6-5 240 Willowick,OH Henry, Geoff 8 QB 6-2 187 Naperville, OH Howard, Joe 24 SE 5-9 165 Clinton, MD Jacoby, Jim 7 DBS-11 185 Richardson, TX Johnson, Joe 27 DB 6-2 190 Fostoria, OH Karcher, Ken 12 QB 6-1 194 Glenshaw, PA Kelly, Kevin 51 c 6-0 195 South Bend, IN Kiernan, Mike 89 DL 6-2 235 Highland, KY Lane, Mike 59 LB 6-1 215 Cincinnati, OH 
Larkin, Mike 42 LB 6-1 210 Cincinnati, OH Leonard, Tony 83 DL 6-3215 Cincinnati, OH Machtolf, Dave 21 TB 6-2 200 Spokane, WA Marinkovich, Mike 68 LB 6-1 210 San Pedro, C,A Mathioudakis. Mike 54 c 6-1 212 Indianapolis, IN ~astor, Tep 66 OL 6-1 210 Sturgis, Ml O'Haren, David 24 DB5-11 190 Marietta, GA O'Neill, Jeff 37 DB 5-9 175 Medford, NJ Pearcy, Van 31 INa 6-2 185 Andrews, TX Piccin, Tony 67 DL 6-3 245 Whitehall, PA Richerson, Mike , 10 SE 6-2 185 Kirksville, MO Roddy, Marty 70 OL 6-6 260 Harleysville, PA Roggeman, Tom 66 LB 6-0 225 Tucson,AZ Sherman, Kevin 20 DB 6-0 185 Colorado Springs, CO Smith, Chris 19 K 5-9 145 'ballas, TX Smith, Chris 32 TB 6-2 220 Cirrcinnati, OH Underwood, Jay 81 DL 6-5 245 Newport News, VA White, Steve 4 LB 6-0 205 Mountlake Terrace, WA 
Williams, Larry 75 OL 6-6 240 Santa Ana, CA 
together on fourth floor Flan­ner for the past 10 days, the newcomers have spent nearly every waking minute with each other. They were welcomed by the Michiana fans at a rally at Marian High School one night, while the quarterback club took them to a nearby lake for a cookout the next. And to hear some of them talk about how busy and regimented their days at "boot camp" are, it isn't surprising that homesick­nesses hasn't had a chance to make its presence known. 
"It'll probably hit me the first time it snows," smiles highly touted back Van Pearcy of Andrews, Tex. "I guess I should be homesick but I'm not. Right now, I feel all of my teammates are like family to me. Everybody has tried to help each other out because we're all going through the same thing. " 
The hardest part is waking up thinking you're home and then remembering you're not," offers Joe Fazio, an offensive lineman out of Wil­lingboro, N.J. "But there's really no time to think about it after that. We're either eating, practicing or attending meet­mgs the rest of the day." 
The freshmen not only have jelled as a class, but with their older teammates as well. 
''The upperclassmen have never treated us as inferiors," 
LEAVE MIDWAY MOTOR lODGE 
4·!Xla.m 445 a.m 
S·OOam

n;I..... 
645am 
7·!KI am 8:45a.m · 
9·!Xla.m 
10:45 am 
!!!lOam 1245p.m. 
l!Xlpm 245 pm 
3:!Xlpm 445 p.m 
S·OOp.m


a a, 
LEAVE BIG BEAR TOWN& COUNTRY 
4:15a.m SIS am 715am 9·!5a.m ll!Sam l!Spm :l!Sp.m 515 p.m 
LEAVE NOTRE DAME 
4:loa.m S:lOam 7 :lOam <J:lOa.m l! :lOam l:lOpm :l:lOp.m 5:l0pm 

LEAVE MICHIANA REGIONAl AIRPORT 
S:!XI a.m 5:45am 745 a.m 4:45am 1145am 145pm :J45pm 5:45pm 
EDITOR'S NOTE-The follow­ing is reprinted from Satur­day's freshman on'entation is­sue ofTHE OBSERVER. 
By KElLY SUlLIVAN Sports Wn'ter 

Someone forgot to tell this group of freshmen that adjus­ting to college life was suppos­ed to be rough. 
If leaving home and being on your own for the first time ought to be a lonely experi­ence, you'd better remind the newest Notte Dame football players of that. 
Coach Gerry Faust's 27 re­cruits, a group that includes 13 
All-Americans and often has been called the best high schools could offer in 1981 , seem as comfortable on cam­pus as the head man himself. And they appear even more at home with each other. 
"After the first two days, I knew all the other freshmen players' names," relates cen­ter Tom Doerger (Cincinnati, Ohio). "I was amazed at how friendly everyone was.'' 
Lineman Jay Underwood agrees. "The guys have be­come so much closer than I expected after such a short time," says the Newport News, Va., native. "There's a real community and family atmos­phere already.'' 
Yet it's easy to see how such camaraderie evolved. Housed 
FREE PARKING CAll (219) 255-3068 FOR RESERVATIONS 


O'Hare 
$20 
one 
way 
$38 
ROUNDTRIP 


SCIENCE AND ENGINEERING MAJORS: TAKE OUT INSURANCE NOW 
How about an "insurance" policy that you~ science or engineering degree will really be used? It would be nice. Especially considering the work you put mto such a degree. . . . . 
The Air Force will use your talents. We have openings for young men and women ma)on~g m sele.cted .sci­ence and engineering academic fields ...like Aeronautical, Aerospace, General and Electncal Engmeenng, Mathematics, Physics and Computer Technology, and many more. . . 
One way to get into these jobs is through Air Force ROTC. ~ur AFROTC sch?larsh1p can help you fman­cially so you can concentrate on getting your degree. AFROTC IS a great opportumty to· help yourself through college, and the Air Force is a great opportunity to really use what you learn. . 
Look into the A1r Force ROTC program at 
your campus. It's good insurance. 
Contact Capt. Gottrich at 283-6634 
for additional information. 

HOTC 
Gateway to a great way of life. 

explains defensive back Joe ] ohnson (Fostoria, Ohw). ''They're always willing to help us out at practice --it's not like, 'Hey, he's after my spot.''' 
''I'm a wingback," says Dave Machtolf (Spokane, Wash.), "and (junior wing­back) Tony Hunter has helped me so much it's unreal. He's been like a player-coach this week. I guess they remember what it's like to be a fresh­man.'' 
But the veterans aren't the only ones lending a helping hand. The newcomers are get­ting a lot of assistance from someone who's a rookie him­self this season --Faust. 
"He's exactly the dynamo I expected," notes Underwood. "A 24-hour bundle of energy. And , he really looks out for us. 
Someone who should know is Moeller product Mike Larkin. "Coach Faust is the exact same person he was at Moel­ler," says the big linebacker. "I couldn't believe it. I didn't think it was possible for him to give all the players such per­sonal attention at the college level, but he still says hi to almost every one of us during warm-ups.'' 
"Coach Faust is the reason we're all here," adds Pearcy. ''I could have been happy at a lot of schools, but the desire to play for him was too great.'' 
And the desire to don Irish uniforms and become a part of the Notre Dame mystique was pretty strong, too. 
''I'm just starting to realize I'm actually here," said an overwhelmed]oe Howard with a wide grin. "At practice, you kind of block it out --you just think about playing for a team.'' 
"Yeah, you get too nervous if you constantly think about being here at Notre Dame," agreed Tony Piccin, alineman out of Whitehall, Pa. ''On the field, you just do.what comes naturally, but off the field, you're well aware of what a special place this is.'' 
Few freshmen, even the ones as talented as this prize bunch, are able to crack the lineu,e and make immediate contnbutions. But Faust and his staff aren't worried about these athletes living up to their press clippings. They've all made strong showings in prac­tice this week. 
And the freshmen them­selves aren't worried about their new home living up to its notoriety, either. "Coach Faust is a quality person, and so are all the other players or they wouldn't be here,'' notes Machtolf. ''I kind of knew Notre Dame would be this terrific." 
. Reds 
(continued from page 11) 

individual player statistics. 
''We provide them to any recognised Sports Publication, but it seems that every collector (says he) is a free-lance writer or photographer." Ferguson said 
Blake Cullen, director of public relations for the National League, said yesterday that he was not aware that Feeney's office had recieved any com­plaint from Sonnonschein. 
H!Xl pm 
~HXI am HUOam 12:l0 p m 2 :lOp m 4:l0pm 7!XI p m H:lOpm !OW p m 

10 IS a.m 1245 p.m 245pm 4:45pm 6:45p.m. <Jl5p.m 1045 p.m 1215a.m 

-~--------­

-----~~------------­
• 
-The 


Toda~ 

Wednesday,August26,198l-page 15 
Molarity 
W£LL, HE.R£ I A"'f ... HY LA.f>T YEA.R AT NOTfiE. DAME ANt> I. PI NALLY ~T HY O~N 'R00!-1 


Doonesbury 

~ 60T l) 60 (jfl HIM, ~Y. I CAN'r f£T ~ JUST SITIN 

Simon 
51STER 
MARC,E ~ 



======Mi=.=ch=ae=l=M=o=lin=e=lli:::;:::=:::::=C=am=p=u=s===~ 


~-------~ 


Jeb Cashin 
1 JUST REA'tl ALL 

'{E5 51R ~ I'LL GE-T 01\1 I\130UT A YO\J~~ i>fiiE.~I, 
\T R\G~T AwAY.·· 
FATtiER \OREZ., AT ~I'AUI. 

f\ELLO--. ~El«ulitt..\C, ~ 
W\10 CAN ~E.LATE 1b 
C.OLI..E6£ •.:ii\JOEN1"5. 'J:. wA~ ~lM 0/J c.to.MP~~ "6'f l'o)El<\INE£'1:. IJN~~­'l'TA~C, MARr.E '? 




ACROSS 30 Switched 

52 Floran and 
cassiterite 54 Piccalilli 56 Locale for 
a building 57 Drag 60 Apprehen· 
slon 62 Repeat performance 64 French article 65 Of an epoch 
66 Fill emptied chambers 
67 Sun Yat·­68 Memory 69 Expands 
DOWN 
1 As easy as falling -log 
2 Lunchtime 3 Stopping device 4 Mel of 
baseball 5 Medleys 6 Noviceof 
a kind 7 Kin of oxeyes 8 Process: sufl. 


10 Coat 
fabric 11 Meet Item 12 Fragment 13 Played 19 Nurture 22 Melville 
title 25 Nurse's ­26 Cole of 
song 28 Johnson of 
comedy 29 Kodiak 31 Certain 
pieces of 
lumber 34 Ottoman 35 Arm bone 36 Deceiver 38 Convey 40 Levitate 43 World 
Series mo. 44 Milkweed 45 Atlanta 
arena 47 Spoken 49 Hades 50 Sierra­51 Drew 53 Continue 55 Ideal 58 -hygiene 59 Joins 61 Breakfast 63 Diminutive 
suffix 

=IheLlbserYer=-­
DELIVERY DRIVERS NEEDED 
• 
CALL TOM AT 8661 •DRIVER 'S LICENSE 

•3 
HOURS ON WEEKDAYS •PAID POSITION 


"9 a.m.-6 p.m.--stepan mall, student union sale, plants, prints, furniture, stepan center "7 & 10 p.m.--film, "fame" ,engineering auditorium, sponsored by student union, Sl "7 p.m.--organizational meeting, campus crusade for christ, library lounge, free, new members welcome "7:30 p.m.--fUm, "the war game", earth science building, sponsored by pax christi, free 
Classifieds 
WANTED ] 
Ari-tlrne 'Mlf'1( on CIWJ1)US, stapling posters to bulletin bom-ds. Oloose ~OWl schedule, .4-15 hours weekly. f'C) selling--)001" pav Is based on the an-ount of nater1a1 distributed. Our ~ Cllr"f1)US rep eiiT1S SH7 per hour. This position requires the ability to 'Mlf'1( without supervision. For Info, mntad .Jellnne S'M!I"'IOI"', 500-3rd Ave. W., Seattle, WA 98119, (206) 282-8111. 
TONY WALTON-­

If"tOO Mpp8n to see this, cootad the last of the great rod<'n'roll authors IMMEDIATELY. The lllobles blow. Clash fonMr. 
MORRISSEY LOAN FUND Student los'lsof$20-$200, 1 pen:ant Interest, due In one m:lf'lth. 0'18 day YAIIt. Open everydMS day 11 :30-12:30 In LaFortune Baseu111 il 
[.FOR RENT •
FURNISHED 1 AND 3BEORXlM APART+ MENTS. 5 BEDRX>M HOUSE. 234-2626 
2-Story fnlrre, 7 rooms, 1 ~~ baths, balem!nt. 
1212 E. Madison St., $350 rro. all I.Dis Vrga, 
255-7244 

M.lmlshed apt., 503 1!1 W . .Jeffenon, duplex, 3 rooms, 2nd floor, gas heat furnished, 289-6307, 234-0596 
SllJDENT RENTAL ONLY --6 BEDRX>M HOUSE, FULLY CARPETED WltiKY PARLOR. CALL 272-n67 OR 232-4057 
PARTIALLY FURNISHED HOUSE CLOSE TO CAMPUS, SAFE, REASONABLE 2n-360.4 
5 ROOMS AVAILABLE. FURNISHED Willi BED, DESK AND DESK UGHT, DRAPES, INDIVIDUAL LOCKS FOR EACH RlOM.. EVER'rONE SHARES LARGE UVING RXlM W1!8FIRER.ACE. 2 BAll-iS·-KITCHEN FUR+ NISHED Willi ALL NEEDS. HOME AWAY FROM HOME. CALL DICK CODDENS, 233-22.4.5 
SllJDENT rentals ne.r N.D. On busllne. A1vale entr"a'lc2. NeYAy rerrodeled, fully furnished. 1 bedroom $175 ll'ld up. Also effldency apts., $115 ll'ld up. 255-8505 or 259-.4629 
Citlil"' 4-bedroom Wl/82 baths. Alao 2-bedroorn Jent negotiable to responsible students. Call 232-9498 or 291-4528 
FOR SALE 
'73 Vega, lUIS v.ell, ugly, $200 or best. Call 233-2032 
3 stereos Wlt8AM-FM radio. Ead1 set has tv.o speakers. $35, $75, ll'ld $175. Call 233-.4908 
TICKETS 

Wmted: 2 GA LSU tldets. Call 233-876.4 
NEEDED: 2 GA AND 1 SllJDENT TICKET TO LSU WILL TAKE ALL OR ANY. CALL 8037 PLEASE! 
WILL BUY USC GA TIX 816.4 

PERSONALS 
$3 ALL 11-iE DRAFT 'tOU CAN DRINK. WEDNESDAY 9-12 PM AT IRISH COUNTRY. 744 N. NOTRE DAME AVE., CORNER OF N.D. AVE. AND SOUTH BEND AVE. HAPPY HOUR FRIDAY .4-7 PM: $2-PITCHER,Il-'3 DRAFTS. UVE ~K AND ROLL SAllJRDAY NIGHT Willi CRYSTAL 

Wednesday, August 26,1981-page 16 
Big Ten visitors 
Faust impresses Skywriters 
By KELLY SULLIVAN Sports Writer 

During football season, there's no love lost between Notre Dame and the Bis Ten. But there was no hmt of animosity last ni~ht between Gerry Faust and his audience -­a corps of reporters from Spartan, Wolverine and Boiler­maker country. 
The Notre Dame coach, who's maintained a love affair with the press since his arrival on campus, wooed some of his potential critics during last evening's dinner-press confer­en~e with the Big 10 Sky­wnters. 
The 20 or so Midwest jour­nalists made their annual stop at Notre Dame, the second of 10 schools they'll visit in the next week. Most had never met the Irish dynamo, but were familiar with reports of his exu~erant personality and were anx1ous to catch a first-hand g~impse: And they weren't disappomted; Faust was his patented self. 
He arrived just as the des­sert was being served. "It's okay, I've lost five pounds,'' he quipped. And after personally introducing himself to every­one there, he started making believers out of the curious who never had the chance to see him in action. 
"He's everythin~ I've heard about," offered Big Ten rep­resentative Marc Katz. "The things that impressed us were his enthusiasm and warmth. This is my third visit to Notre Dame on this tour, and it's been by far the best. The hospitality and the atmosphere have been tremendous." 
Similar remarks were heard throughout the affair and the writers were equally impressed with the half dozen players they chatted with, re­ferring on several occasions to the maturity and intelligence that always seems to character­ize Notre Dame athletes. 

They also couldn't help noticing the affection between coach and players, as Faust locked his arm around each one he introduced. He slipped up describing lineman Pat Kramer's position --calling him a defensive end, then a flip tackle, then a contain tackle, and Kramer quipped, "I'm a confused tackle." 
Though these Big 10 follow­ers won't give their allegiance to the Irish come football season, last night they certain-
See WRITERS, page 13 
Axe falls 

NFL teams cut rosters to 50 
By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS 50-player limit. Orleans. The Saints also put There is, of course, the wide receiver Rich Mauti on 
The Cleveland Browns cut possibility that Hall, a 10-year injured reserve. He suffered a linebacker Charlie Hall's string veteran, will catch on else­broken shoulder earlier this of 131 consecutive games with where. He became exJ.>endable month. them yesterday s they and the when the Browns acqUired Don Cincinnati waived eight play­rest of the National Football Goode from the San Diego ers, including veteran defen­
League reduced rosters to a Chargers last year. sive lineman Mike White. Run­
''Charlie was very disap­ning back Samoa Samoa, who pointed,'' Coach Sam Rutig­tore an Achilles tendon last liano said after cutting him. ''It Saturday, ws placed on the was not very pleasant. It was injured list. 
Tough schedule faces ND 
one of the toughest things I've The Bengals also welcomed had to do in coaching. " back free agent tackle Mike Nine other Browns were cut, Obravac, who walked out of among them defensive back camp two weeks ago. ''He
AND AWAY WE GO --Welcome back to Autry Beamon and linebacker indicated he'd like to come ~otre ~am~ (or as Fr. Fitz would say, the ] ohn Mohring. back,'' said Coach ForrestCatholic Disneyland). The football season is 
am Meanwhile, the Chargers ~regg. "He had a good train­just around the corner, with opening action traded tight end Gregg mg camp. We thought he wasslated for Saturday, Sept. 12 against LSU here at Sports Writer McCrary, a six-year veteran, a strong contender for a spotNotre Dame. In the interim, head coach Gerry back to Washington yesterday on this team. " ­Faust will be prepping his troops with a pair of Irish Items for an undisclosed draft choice. Denver put Jimmy Robinsonweekend scrimmages, one this Saturday and one The 6-foot-2, 235-pounder was on injured reserve because of a the following Friday. With the Fighting Irish faithful may wince at the difficulty of this year's drafted by the Atlanta Falcons pulled hamstring and cut an­attack still under wraps, both of the scrimmages schedule, but they should be thankful they in 1975, sat out the 1976 other veteran wide receiver,will be closed to the public. aren't rooting for Florida State. The Seminoles season with an injury and was Larry Brunson, while the New This year's grid schedule shapes up as a face Nebraska, Ohio State, Notre Dame traded to the Redskins. They York Giants' cuts included
and State After the LSU opener, the Irish pack up for trips successive games ... all on the road. 
tougher test than the Irish have faced recently. Pittsburgh Louisiana this year u; released him after six games safety Bud Hebert, linebackers 
and he hooked on with the ] ohn Skorupan and Dan A puna
to Ann Arbor and East Lansing to face Big Ten UNDER PRESSURE --Although the Irish and defensive tackle George
Chargers.

quarterback situation for this fall is still up in the rivals Michigan (Sept. 19) and Purdue (Sept. 
While Washington picked up Small. 
26). Faust's footballers will then enjoy the air (pardon the pun}, Tim Koegel's performance McCr~, it released running While they were cuttingat Mishawaka's Annual Sidewalk Days probably friendly confmes ofNotre Dame Stadium for five back Rickey Claitt, tight end Robinson, the Broncos con­did not hurt his chances that much. Koegelsuccessive home games --Michigan State (Oct. 
Phil DuBois and linebacker founded speculation that they3), Florida State (Oct. 10), Southern .Cal (Oct. competed against various age-group winners in Dave Graf and put guards Ron would cut or trade one of their throwing a football through a tire at the YMCA's 24), Navy (Oct. 31) and Georgia, Tech (Nov. 7). 
Saul and Fred Dean and line­four quarterbacks while trim­The first weekend of fall break is thus an boo.th. Tim handled the younger competition backers Farley Bell and Quen­ming their roster to 50 players.
off-weekend, while everyone will have to return easily, ut lost to the 20-and-over representative tin Lowry on mjured reserve. It had been thought thatwhen the latter scored one more strike thanto campus early to see the Trojans. 
The Falcons waived line­Coach Dan Reeves would The Irish close out their regular season slate Koegel did. 
backer Robert Pennywell, who decide yesterday whether to with a trio of road games against Air Force (Nov. CLOSE ONLY COUNTS IN. . . --Irish started 41 consecutive games keep Jeff Knapple or Matt14), Penn State (Nov. 21) and Miami, Fla. (Nov. baseball coach Larry Gallo coached a team of between 1977 and 1979, and Robinson as his backup quar­28} college-age students in the Cape Cod League put cornerback Rolland Law­terback. Reeves had said thatMichigan, Southern Cal and Notre Dame all this summer. Gallo's Cotuit Kettleers got off to a rence on injured reserve. Law­he would carry just three are rated highly in most pre-season polls, so it poor 6-13-2 start in the first half of the season rence, who has not played in quarterbacks into the regularcould be a monumental season for the Irish. before rallying to a 19-18-5 final mark and a preseason, suffered a pulled season, and Craig Morton hasRIVAL TO ALL--Notre Dame's matchup with berth in the league tournament. The Kettleers hamstring at the start of train­been tabbed as the starterPenn State this year marks the start of a regular promptly disposed of the circuit's leading teams ing camp. His streak of 118 while rookie Mark Herrmann of series with the Nittany Lions. An Irish win in the en route to the championship. 
games --every game in his Purdue apparently has the No.
1976 Gator Bowl notwithstanding, the last Oddly enough, Gallo's 'kettleer's beat the nine years with the Falcons -­3 spot locked up. 
regular season faceoff between the two inde­orleans Cardinals in the tourney fmals, a team is pparently at an end. Instead, the Broncos let gopendent powers was back in 1928. on which Irish outfielder Dan Szajko played. 
The New York jets cut seven four veterans, includiong nosePittsburgh will move into the Irish schedule in COVER-UP--The Irish baseball team may not players, including running tackle aval Short, who a Uni­have to postpone as many games because of wet 1982, re.P.lacing long-time rival Georgia Tech back Ralph Clayton, a second­versity of Colorado star andgrounds from now on. The Cincinnati Reds(which will become a full member of the Atlantic round draft choice in 1980 who five other players. ' Coast Conference next season). The Irish will offered their used tarpaulin from Riverfront suffered a leg injury, missed The Broncos must trim fiveStadium to Notre Dame, and the nylon covernot play Michigan in 1983 or 1984, but the series the entire season and became more players next Monday to. 
will pick up again in 1985 and tentatively is now sits in waiting beside Jake Klein Field. expendable when the Jets scale their roster to 45 players,
BOTTOMS UP--Remember last year's rugby sch~duled annually through the turn of the made Freeman McNeil and the regular season limit. Den­expose? Well, the story· certainly has gotten
century. Marion Barber their top two ver plays its final exhibition
around.
Other big names on the Irish schedules of the picks this year. g~~ Sa~rday night against
For the benefit of those freshmen who are not
1980s include Alabama (1986-1987), Stanford Linebacker Joe Federspiel Cmcmnatl.
familiar with the situation, a tradition among
(1988-1990}, LSU (1984-1986} and SMU (1988-and guard Emanuel Zanders, a Asked why the Broncos 
some rugby teams is to gather together in the
1989). pair of starters, were amongYOU THINK YOU HAVE IT HARD --Irish see ITEMS, page 13 the six players cut by New See NFL, page 12 









