.ND Govt. -page5 
.. 

VOL. XVI, NO. 21 an mdependent student newspaper serving notre dame and saint mary's MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 21, 1981 
Saint Mary,·s College Student Bot~P President Eileen :11urpby dis­cussed the role ofSaint J1ary;'s stu­dent grJIIenunent u•itb Observer neu•s stafferSusan Murdock. 
Q: What is the purpose of St. .'11ary•'s student g(JI!enrment? 
A: We see ourselves as a liason be­tween the administation and stu­dents. We are trying to steer away from the stereotype of only provid· ing social activities. Basically, we are the student voice elected by thestu­dents, for the students. We are frustrated. though, because we haven't heard much from the stu· dents. We want to hear their opinions. Our voice is only as good as the students who use it. For ex­ample, we've had three students' forums where we tried to actively seck out student opinion and no one GlllH:. 

Eileen Murphy 
Q: What are your general plans and goals for the year? 
A: My personal number one priority is to lobby for student space in the old library. I -want to make sure students arc represented when space is allocated in the spring. That building is really up for grabs and I think it's more ofa problem than the students rt·alize. It seems so self­evident that tht· students need the social space, and it's being taken for granted that they'll get it. There are several other groups who also want that space. Students need to show their interest if they hope to get it. 
Q: Have you recei11ed coopera­tion and support in your efforts andprojects? 
A: Your initial expectations will never be fulfilled. Last week we had Duke Tomatoe here. and only seventy people came. Those people who who wt·nt had a really good time. lie's always well received at 
At Saint Marv's 
" 
SBP Murphydiscusses role 
Polish Cabinet meets in emergency session 

Notre Dame. I just wish people would take advantage of the ac­tivities we offer at Saint ,\1arv's. We waot people to realize that they can have a good time here. and don't al­ways have to go off campus or to :'1/otre Dame. 
Q: What (ype ofservices and ac­tivities (io you have planned? 
A: Some of the services we're trying to make students more aware of are the Volunteer Service Oppor­tunities and the Academic Council. Academics is one area of student government that goes largely un­tapped. The Academic Council, 

WARSAW. Poland (AP) Premier Wojciech Jaruzelski summoned his Cabinet and officials of major cities and provinces to an emergency meeting yesterday on urgent political, social and economic matters, the official news agency PAP said. 
The state-run news agency quoted a government communique as saying the "state of readiness" of the government was discussed and indispensible decisisions were made to prepare for "various needs and eventualities." 
The communique was vaguely worded and made no reference to government warnings that authori­ties must crack down on the inde­pendent labor union Solidarity. PAP, without citing specifics. indicated the economic crisis was a chief topic. 
Earlier yesterday. PAP said food shortages in some Polish towns have reached a "critical" point and a lack ofwarm clothes, shoes and mt:at was causing "mounting dissatisfaction." 
Deputy Premit:r Janusz Obodowsk, asked by a Polish TV reporter if the country was in a state of"war economy," said: "maybe not so black. but anyhow not so color­ful." 
"It is true, the situation is difficult as regards per fuel and raw which is chaired by Vice President for Academic Affairs, Emmie Lopez. is made up of thirteen representatives. one from each department and helps students if they have a problem with a profes­sor or a class. 
New this year is food sales on Sun­day nights. It's coordinated bv .\1aureen Sheehan and is for fund raising for clubs and organizations. So far we've had quite an enthusias­tic response. 
Two of our big projects are 
See MURPHY, page 5 

materials," he said. "Production is dropping. In connection with such a situation, we must carefully cut up what we have." Obodowsk is the government's economic chief. 
The meeting was the second emergency session since Thursday, when the government sternly warned Soldarity's leaders that they were jeopardizing Poland's indepen­

dence  by  strangling  attempts  to  
rebuild the economy.  
The  Warsaw  independent  

newspaper Zycie Warszau:)' urged See SOLIDARilY, page 3 


Judicial system 
SMC ensures dueprocess 
By MICHAEL SCHIERL 
Neu•sStaff 
A joint effort of Saint Mary's students and administrators has resulted in the implemen­tation of a seemingly more coordinated and just Judicial System for the college. The administration's decision to maintain, without change, last year's experimental Judicial Conrtitution marks a culmina­

$3.5 million 
WNDU erects facility on U.S. 33 
By MARGARET FOSMOE 
.Veu•s Staff 
Construction of the new s.~. "i million facility for the WNDLI television and radio stations continues on schedule, according to Charles Linster. Director ofSpe­cial Projects at the stations. 
Located at the corner of l'.S. 33 and Dorr Road. the new building is expected to bt· completed by Vlay of 
I 9H2. 
Designed by .\1athews. Purucker. and Annella. Inc.. tht· finished two-story facility will be nearly 33.000 square feet. Ft·atures of the new building include two television and six radio studios which will be used for hoth on-air and audio production work. The building will also contain classroom and other teaching facilities to he used in conjunction with Communications classes and internships offered in cooperation with the l'niver­sin· of :'\lotre Dame and Saint .'vlal')·'s College. 
The building will house the three W:'\IDC stations. which includt· Channel 16 Television. l'93-F\1 Radio, and I=; Country/W:'\IDC-AVI Radio. The stations are commerical. tax-paying organizations. owned and operated by a subsidiary of the l'niversity of :'1/otre Dame. 
The new huilding will replace the stations' original facility. located juM northwest of.\1emoriall.ibrary. The present station was built in llJ"i"i. wht:n W:'IIDC-TV first carne on tht: air. 
\X'ith occupancy of the new facility scheduled for June of next year. the Cniversity plans to turn over the old building to an existing univer-sity department in need of more space. Departments being discussed for 
occupaion  of the  building in- elude  the  University  
Placement  Bureau  and  the  Experiential  Learning  
Group.  

The new facility is expected to have an excellent im­pact on the l'niversity in paticular, in addition to the community as a whole, according to Bazil O'Hagan, General .\1anager. He further stated The facility will al­low the station to do more in the area of educational tdevision. In addition, the increased space will allow us to better serve the needs of the audience. 
tion of a four year revision process. The major advantages afforded by the new system include: a guarantee ofdue process rights for all students; a student right to discuss his appearance hefore a Board of either his peers, non-peers, or a mixed group; a more standardized treatment ofsimilar cases; and a prompter, more efficient disbursement of cases resulting from a centralized coordination. 
Mary Anne O'Donnell, director of Student Activities and participant since the 1979 planning stag~ of the current system, emphasizes that the new guidelines embody the same principles inherent in the old system. "We view discipline, not as a means of educating the student in what it means to live in a community and in a society," she said. 
The underlying themes of the new system seem to be cooperation, coordination, and diversity. The new guidelines encourage ~nd, at many stages, requtre a consensus between student and regulator before the judicial process can continue. In addition, the entire tlrocess has been centrally\ coordinated and procedurally standardized to insure consistency in dealing with isolated cases. This coordination and standardiza­tion has in no way eliminated the personal touch present in the former, less structured system. 
Perhaps, most importantly, the new system adds a number of diverse alternatives for dealing fairly with particular cases. 
The old system centered around the individual dormitories and Resident Directors. As of five years ago there existed, in essence, three separate sanctioning bodies: 

the individual Resident Directors; student-faculty boards within each dorm; and a central Student Relation Board. Of the three, the Resident Directors usually wielded the most power, yet standard procedure was in no way clear. As in the new system, the Resident Director initiated the judicial f'lrocess. She acted, however, in a completely individual manner when treating each case. 
SeeJUDICIAL, page 4 


l\T~~S~J;l~~~i~~~~~S========~=====================M=o=n=da=y=,s=e=pt=e=m=b=er=2=1=,=19=8=1===a=g=e~2 
by The Observer and The Associated Press 
Four Notte Dame students were admitted to St. Joseph Medical Center for treatment of injuries incurred in a single-car acci­dent at 10:38 p.m. Thursday on Doaglas Road near the entrance to the Credit Union. Campus security officers said the driver failed to negotiate a jog in the road and struck a utility pole broadside. Receiv­ing hospital treatment are Bruce Barron, 1104 Flanner Hall, driver of the car; Bruce Lemon, l 114 Flanner; David Creach, I l 0 3 Flanner, and William Mulroy, a friend ofJames Gilroy, 1105 Flanner. Gilroy, John]. O'Sullivan, 1104 Flanner, owner of the demolished auto, and another youth known only as Tom were treated at the Student Health Center. Occupants of the auto told police they had gone to Roseland for gas and their vision was obstructed by frosty windows. -The Observer 
A panel of outside advisers to federal poverty programs, in a blistering parting shot, said yesterday that President Reagan's economic policies and budgets cuts could plunge the nation into "social chaos." The lame duck National Advisory Council on Economic Opportunity predicted yesterday that Reagan's policies will substantially swell the ranks of America's 29.3 million poor as "those who hover just above the poverty level" fall below it. "The results are predictable: more crime, physical and psycholoical illness, broken families, racial division and the potential for violence," the council declared in its 13th and final annual report. The council, created in 1964 during Lyndon Johnson's war on poverty, will go out of business Oct. 1 when the Economic Opportunity Act expires and many health and social welfare programs are converted to block grants. -AP 
jurors in Larry Layton's murder-conspiracy trial in San Francisco, Calif., were to resume deliberations today after leaving both sides guessing over its requested review ofevidence relating to the movements of slain Rep. Leo Ryan. On Saturday, the third day of deliberations, the jury asked U.S. DistrictJudge Robert Peckham for a review ofthe testimony ofRyan aideJackie Speier and a replay ofthree NBC-TV videotapes of events before and during the shootngs. Ryan, three journalists and a defector from the Rev. Jim Jones' jungle settle­ment atJonestown were gunned down in an ambush Nov. 18, 1978, at a jun~;le airstrip a few miles frpm the Guyana settlement. -AP 
A key prosecutor warned Iranian parents to "watch their children closely" since even 12-year-olds could be executed for demonstrating against the regime, a Tehran newspaper said yesterday. It also said 71 opponents had been shot by firing squad in two days. "Even if a t 12-year-old child is found participating in an armed demonstration, he will be shot. The age doesn't matter," Assadollah Lajavardi, prosecutor general of Tehran, was quoted as saying in the newspaperIslamic Republic. "They are young and they can be duped into counter-revolutionary activities," he said. The government has announced 694 executions since the June 22 ouster of President Abolhassan Bani-Sadr. However, Bani-Sadr said last week that the figure is actually 1,200 and a source in Tehran said officials confided 
that the number ofexecutions topped 1,100 -AP 
joseph Paul Franklin, who faces the death penalty after being convicted of murder in Salt Lake City, met with his lawyers yesterdat to decide whether seek sentencing from a judge or a jury. Attorney David Yocom, who helped represent Franklin at his three­week trial in the sniper slayings oftwo black joggers, said the 31-year­old avowed racist must decide by this morning whether to ask 3rd District Judge Jay E. Banks or the jury that convicted him to decide punishment. Utah law allows execution by firing squad or life im­prisonment for conviction on charges of first-degree murder. Franklin, who acted as his own attorney in the trial, will have a chance to present mitigating evidence at the penalty phase of the trial, which 
begins today.AP 

Florida Gov. Bob Graham owes Oklahoma a day's work harvesting wheat. But he's thinking ofpaying offthe 9-month-old debt with a day in another type offield-oil. Either way, Graham insists he hasn't reneged on the bet he made with Oklahoma Gov. George Nigh before the 1981 Orange Bowl. Graham pledged to work a day in a wheat field if the Oklahoma Sooners beat the Florida State Seminoles. If the Oklahoma football team lost, Nigh was to spend a day picking Florida oranges. Oklahoma beat Florida State, 18-1 7, apparently consigning Graham to the harvest. But the Oklahoma wheat season 
has come and gone. And the folks in Oklahoma haven't forgotten 
about the bet. Graham says he hasn't backed out. He says he plans to 
work in Oklahoma, but not necessarily in a wheat field. He's talking: 
about working in an oil field instead, and Nigh is willing to modify the 
bet agreement to let Graham work on an oil rig or as a well hand, Reid 
says. -AP 

Partly sunny and mild. Highs near 70. Becoming mostly cloudy with a 30 percent chance of showers tonight and continuing tomorrow. Lows tonight in the mid 50s. Highs tomorrow near 70. ­
AP 

Latin American Week '81 

One of the few drawbacks that accompany college life is the isolation ofthe student from the "real" world. Day in, day out we trudge to classes, write papers, take tests, etc., for the most part oblivious to what is going on outside ofour campus confines. One ofthe benefits ofa university is that there are people here who have seen parts of the world which some of us can only imagine, and through these people we can discard the blinders and expand our horizons just a bit further than Notre Dame, Indiana. 
One such group of people is organizng a "Latin American Week", which will begin this Saturday, Sept. 26, and will run through the following Wednesday. 
The five·day affair is being coordinated by the office of Prof. Kenneth Jameson, head of the Latin American Studies program at Notre Dame. Joan Kellenberg, stu­dent assistant to Prof. Jameson, has done a good deal of the legwork for the upcoming event. 
The purpose ofthe presentations, entertainment, and 
movies that will make up the program, according to Ms. 
Kellenberg, is "to raise the awareness of Latin America 

on the international scene and to show the urgencies of 
the political problems and tensions." To this end, the 
program will focus on the economic and social growth 
of Latin America, as well as 
the role ofthe Church in the 
Hispanic world. 
A mariachi band is tentatively scheduled 
for T &Alf'JN 
Saturday, the opening day of ~~..1 

~?u::E~~~; :~:~~c~:~ A 1\JIERIC! "iT 
tinues with a lecture on 

1V'-.I fV." 
Sunday, Sept. 27, to be given 

wEEI<
by Fr. Robert Pelton, direc­tor of the Notre Dame In­
stitute for Clergy Education. The talk, entitled "Christian Responsibility in El Sal­vador", is scheduled for 8:30 
p.m. in the Memorial Library 

lounge. Ms. Kellenberg ex­plained that Fr. Pelton, who traveled in Chile and 

Panama this past summer, will discuss the Catholic 
Church's postion in this strife-torn nation. 

"Fr. Pelton hopes to dispel some of the myths that people have held regarding El Salvador," she said. One ofthe key points in the talk will echo PopeJohn Paul Il's position regarding El Salvador: the need for negotia­tions, instead of military assistance. 
"President Reagan should realize that he is not playing a game. International politics is not a ches­sboard. There is a human element involved," Ms. Kel­lenberg pointed out. 
On Monday. Professors Kenneth Jameson and Denis Goulet will give a joint presentation on "Mexican Development Future", at 12:1 'i p.m. in the Memorial Library Lounge. Both men have spent a great deal of time in Latin America. Prof. Jameson lived in a farming village in Southern Mexico this past summer; Prof. Goulet has done ressearch in several South American nations. 
Ms. Kellenberg spent a year in Mexico as part of the 
University's Foreign Study programs. Reflecting on her 

,__._The_Obs.eryer_ 
Design Editor...................... Lisa Bontempo Design Assistants ........ : ..... Randy Rent ncr 
Bruce Oakky Typesetter ........................... Raymond Inglin .Ve~t•s Editor.............................. Lynne Ooley Cop)• Editor ..........................Joe .'vlusumeci 
Paula Groves 
Sports Copy Editor .... Mark Hannukscla Typist ........................................... .fane Cugini 
.~l·stems Control ................... Brun~ Oakley .\~IIC DaJ• Editor....................... Cecc Baliles Ad Design ...............................Shag & Corbs Photographer ......................... Carl Frushon Guest Appearances .................... Mary Fran Deirdre 


Tim VercelloHi 
News Editor 
Inside Monday 
own impressions of Mexico as a developing nation, she labelled it a "country ofcontrast." 
"Mexico is a third world nation, yet it is developing at an incredible rate. On one side of the street you'll see a high-rise, on the other side, a hovel," she said. As a result, Mexico must strike a balance between the past and the present.. 
"Seeds of Liberty", a Maryknoll movie centering on the role of missionaries in Latin America, will close the third day of"Latin American Week." Scheduled for 7:30 
p.m. in 122 Hayes-Healy, the movie will include a seg­ment dealing with the murder of the four Maryknoll nuns in El Salvador. Calling the movie a "defense of the Maryknoll order," Ms. Kellenberg explained that "Seeds of Liberty" also serves as an introduction to the upcom­
ing campus visit of Sr. Melinda Roper, head of Maryknoll, who will speak here on Oct. 5. 
Ms. Kellenberg referred to Tuesday, Sept. 29, as the "cultural day" of "Latin American Week". Jaime Gatica, a graduate student in Economics from Chile, will give a concert of Latin American music. The time and place will be an­nounced. 
"Latin American Week" closes with "Double Day," a film that deals with the dual role of latin American women in their society. Made by the International Women's Film Project, Ms. 

Kellenbergexplained that"Double Day" shows the dual responsibilities of working women, both to their families and to their jobs, as well as the dual oppression, due to sex and class, that exists in Latin America. The film will be shown on Wednesday, Sept. 30, at 7:30 in the Satellite Room in O'Shaugnessy. 
Ms. Kellenberg hopes to make "Latin American Week" an annual event. An organziational meeting for next year's program will be held on Sept. 30 outside the Center for Experiential Learning at 12: 1 5 p.m. 
Observer notes.________, 
The Dan Fogelberg concert is scheduled for Wednesday, Oct. 28, not Oct. 20, as it was reported in Friday's Observer. Also, the admission fee for the film "Breaker Morant" will be S 1.00, not 50 cents as advertised in Friday's Observer. We regret these errors. 
~joy yourt ~ weekeluL at • flee ~ Hfohi. ~. 9K.~ 
$l7·so bolt 3Qcgee, KeWfu ~ ~ 't08Itt6, ~ CAiee, eabfe TU, abt ~ emulifituWcg, ~ kooJwp bolt ' 
WltlfJe'l3. Calf bolt ~~, ~ 1-936-4555. 
r ., r 


Editorial Board and Department Managers 



====IheO~e~~==== 
Editor-in·Cbief.......... . .......... .john McGrath SMCExecutive Editor ..................... Mary Agnes Carey
Box Q, Notre Dame, iN 46556 
Managing Editor............. . ........... TomJackman SMC News Editor ................................ Cathy Domamco
The Observer is an independent newspaper published by the students of the 
Executive News Editor .............................. Lynne Daley Photo Editor...................................................John Macor Universit~ of Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessanh News Editor..................... . ................ Tim Vercellotti 
reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news 1s reported News Editor ..................... . .................... Kelli Flint Business Manager ....................................ruch Coppola as accurately and as objectively as possible. Editorials represent the opinion of a Senior Copy Editor........ .......... Mary Fran Callahan Contro/ler........................................................Joe Mulflur Sports Editor ......................................... Michael Ortman Advertising Manager......................................Mark Ellis 
majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, opinions, and letters are I he views 
Features Editor ....................................Anthony Walton Production Manager.............................. Michael Monk 
of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community, and 
Circulation Manager ........................Tom Maclennan
The Observer Monday, September 21, 1981 -page 3 
Maier explains role of new-s tnagazine 
By MARK WORSCHEH 
Neu•sStaff 
Frank :vlakr, Chicago 

bureau chief for Newsweek, began 
his lecture Friday at the Library 
Auditorium by saying, "you can't 
believe everything you read." 
Vlait'r was n'ot apologizing to the 

more than ~o in attendance, but 
rather was beginning an explanation 
about the limitations and respon­
sibilities of a major news magazine. 
"\1y mission is to gt·t into stories 

the point of \'icw ofthe I 0-state area 
I cover," said Maier. a !9'i'i :'liD 
graduate. 
Speaking with relaxed con­fidence. :vlaier described the evolu­tion of a story from reporter to newsstand. 
Every article that his bureau writes must he sent to ;\lew York City for editing and approval. While not critkal of this process. Maier ad­mits that there arc inherent problems. 
"Our writer~ in New York will receive a 'iO{lO-word story from Chicago and find that space limits al­low for only HOO." 
A series of :vlanhatten-bascd editors, whom he believes arc "out of tunG. with reality just becaust· of location," will cut the Midwestern story down to the HOO-word limit. 
"Hert·'s wtu:re the subtleties can be lost," said :vlaicr. "Wht·n I get the story back to me 
it's set in concrete almost," he said. 
"The  system  lends  itself to  over­ 
simplification  and  errors  of  in­ 
ference."  
Vlaier  also  discussed  

"incestuousness" in the media. saying that a great number of jour­nalists rely on what other journalists have deemed important. 
"What Dan Rather sets as his top story affects not only people, but other papers," commented .VIaier, referring to editors who choose headline stories on the basis of what more famous journal!sts have chosen. 
"The power of the media to set the agenda for the rest of us is enor­mous." 
"The particular problem of news magazines," Vlaier explained, "is that they influence not only readers, _but influence-makers in the 
country." 
Speaking of journalists in general, Maier called them "fallible people" ami denied any claims to objectivity. ".:\lobody is objective. Everybody is subjective. All the best journalists 
try to be is fair." 
Vlaier also spoke of cover selec­tion with respect to Newsweek and "that other weekly news magazine." 
"Newsing is supposed to say something about what life is like in 1981, some of which is sillv and frivilous, he said, adding th~t the next Newsu•eek cover story would be about ABC's General Hospital. 



Solidarity 

continuedfrom page I 
the government to continue a line of dialogue with the independent labor federation Solidarity to prevt:nt fur­ther social protests over consumer and political issues. 
"We are aware that the mood in the factories is getting radical, that social protest against misery and 
·haos is growing....," the, paper said. 
Tht· call for mediation rather than confrontation follows the verbal war waged hy the Soviet l!nion and its­Warsaw Pact allies. charging Solidarity with a "large-scale anti-1 Soviet.campaign" and telling the au­thorities here to crack down on the indepemknt union. 
The Bulgarian Communist dai­ly,Ralwtuitscbesko Delo, in a com­mentan· distributed yesterday by tlw Ea~t (;nman news agency ADN, today. Party officials could not im­mediately be reached for comment but have Clenied previous reports about a soon-to-be-held meeting. 
Poland's Roman Cathi>lic bishops, in a letter read from many pulpits Sunday, called limiting the freedom of speech "inadmissible" and said monopolizing the mass media was "unacceptable." 
Access to the media, workers' rights at the factory level and the issue of rebuilding the ntion's nearly bankrupt economy were among the topics to be discussed Friday ,.;·hen Solidarity reconvenes its national congress in Gdansk. 
The Polish Parliament is expected to addrcs~ the issue of"workers self­management." when it meets Thursday. The union has threatened to boycott any law passed that is not to its liking and wants a nationwide 

.Hush· hwers gather on Central park's Great Laun ill .Vezr York earl)' Saturday moming to bold Tbousands turned out to hear tbe popular 1960's 
singing duo, u•bo split aper their allmm "Bridge Ot1er Trou!Jied lf'ater" tl'oll set'ell Grammys. (AP Photo) 
·~ 
. ~~t~ 



'''''-'~~~/PhDBS/MS BS/MS 
BS/MS 

Chemical Engineers Mechanical Engineers Electrical Engineers Metallurgy Engineers 
UNION CARBIDE CORPORATION 
Interviewing On Campus 

September 29 and 30 
• CONTACT THE PLACEMENT OFFICE FOR ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 

said, " Solidaritv is striving for chaos and anarchv." 
Solidarity's ruling prc~idium was cxpn:tnl to meet behind dosed door~ toda\· or tomorrow\\ arsaw to map ;1 strategy and form a n·~ponse to the Soviet l'nion's warnings. 
PAP n·ported yesterday that some Solidarity unionist~ were resigning from the 9.'i million member federa­tion blTause of policies pushed by the leaders but the report couldn't be indept·ndenrly confirmed. 
"I've been one of the founders of Solidarity in our factorv," said Jerzy Dubik ofCmil'low. "But now it is ob­viou~ that some of its (Solidarity's) leader~ arc li>r the l·hangc of thl· ~o· cial and political situation of our homdand." 
Rumor~ drculatnl hne. that the Central Committee of the Polish Communi~t Part,· would meet 
18461 St. Rd. 23 

vote on worker rights. 
Synchro­1 touch 
r-­
I 
tape
I I 
system 
I 


Q.uasat: 
CS7600 AUDIO SYSTEM 
• Built-in, front load record/playback Cassette section with Synchro Touch Tape System, Dolby Noise Reduction System. metal tape capability, Multi-function Vu meters. 3-diglt tape counter • DC Servo Belt Drive Automatic Record Changer with magnetic cartridge. Low Mass S-shaped tone arm • AMi FM-Stereo Radio • 3-way multi tuned port speaker ~stem. 8". 3'12', 2112' speak· ers and 3-position h1gh frequency level control • Model CS7600. 
·· ·"Dolby Labs 

Stereo ads as low as $1.00 a day 
RCA 13'o,o9onol XL-100 Roommate color TV 
RCA, ~hiHP. bflght small-5creen color TV--now 
even beller wtlh Aulomallc Colc..r Conlrol and 
Fleshtone Correchon OlhP.r dPhno;a leature, 
• 
RCA s emugy-elftCt&nl XteMedltlfl chusts­desrgned lor excellent performAnce and long ltle-ustts only 67 walls ol powm on avernge 

• 
Accullnr. black matruc ptchu!:' tube provtdes a sharp, htph-conlrasl ptclurt' 

• 
AutomaltC Fme Tuntng IAFT! pmpotn!s 11nd holds the correct broadcast S•Qnl!ll 

• 
Contemporary styl~d durablt> pla5T•<-cabtnet wtlh betqe ltnash 


TV Rentals as low as $.80 a day 

call us at Sun Appliances ~ Television 291-5112 
r 
The Observer Monday, September 21, 1981 -page 4 
f 

continuedfrompage 1 
''The Resident Director had an unlimited number of ways in which she could handle a violation complaint: she could meet with the student and sanction her; she could simply sanction her without a hearing; 
she could send her to another Board; or she could choose to ignore the original complaint," said O'Donnell. 
Kathleen Rice, who became Dean of Student Affairs in 1976, saw an immediate need for an overhaul of the outdated system. ''The old system bred an inconsistent and capricious enforcement of regulations; the regulations were unclear and students just didn't understand the whole system,'' said Dean Rice. 
In the 1977-78 term, a group of students, faculty and administrators, led by Dean Rice, began a thorough examination of the system. Their goal was to eventually develop a simpler, fairer, and more efficient system which included a due process clause for students. "The old system, as written, was simply too cumbersome and the language was too legalistic,'' said Rice. 
Their efforts bore fruit two years later (1980-81 ( with the adoption of a completely rewritten constitution contain­
ing  many  changes.  The  
implementation  of  the  new  
system  last  year  was  very  

successful and few difficulties ever arose. The identical system was approved for this school year. 
The new system cites four legitimate regulatory entities of equal power: the Resident Directors; the Student Relations Board; and the newly created Dean's Hearing Board and Administrative Hearing Board. The Student Relations Board, a branch of Student Government, consists ofeight students and is chaired by the Student Judicial Commissioner. The Dean of Student Affairs chairs the Dean's Hearing Board, which is completed by the Judicial Commissioner and. a faculty member. The Judicial Commissioner chairperson and two other administrators compose the Administrative Hearing Board. 
Procedural guidelines are 

A REVEALING COMEDY ABOUT REACHING THE TOP BY WAY OF THE BOTTOM 
I 
I 
I t 
I I 
I 
f 
f-

.Judicial 
. succinctly stated for the handling of each and every case. Any deviation from this procedure is adequate grounds for appealing to the Appellate Board, which consists of a student, faculty member, and administrator. The student is afforded due process at each and every stage of the process. All judicial activity must begin with the submission of an official incident report from the accusing party to the Resident Directpr of the accused party's hall. The Resident Director is then required to send a written notice to the accused request­ing a meeting with her within 48 hours. At this meeting the student and Resident Director discuss the alleged violation and mutually decide on how the case can best be disbursed. If both parties agree, the actual meeting can become a hearing and the Resident Director gains the authority to sanction. Otherwise, it is agreed to which of the three Boards the student will be sent. 
The purpose behind the various compositions of the 
various boards becomes evident at this point. ''It offers the student the fairest judg­ment possible. Maybe the violation is the sort that a student's peers would be more understanding of. Maybe she feels the authority of the Dean would be advantageous,'' said O'Donnell. The system includes four types of sanctions at present: a letter of discipline; discip­linary probation; social proba­tion; and outright dismissal from either hall or school. A student need not receive a lesser sanction before receiving the next in order of severity. The letter of probation is the final step before outright dismissal and may involve restrictions on extracurricular activities or leadership posi­tions. The two lesser sanctions serve simply as written warn­ings. All letters are main­
. rained on file at the office of the Judicial Coordinator, who provides the various Boards with all information pertinent to each case. 
Dean Rice is pleased with the system thus far. "It worked very well last year and operates in a clear, consistent, and fair manner,'' said Rice. She added that no changes in the system are foreseeable in the near future. 
New language 
class begins 


at Saint Mary's 
Conversational Arabic, a new. non-credit course offered by the Saint :\lary's College Modern Lan­guage Department. begins Sept. 24 from 7 a.m. ·until9 a.m. in 147 Regina South and will continue each Thursday for both the fall and spring semesters. There is no charge. 
Interested students may contact Dr. Dilaver Berberi at 4-I -'5412 or 234-997'7. 
The Observer (USPS 598 920) is published Monday through Friday and on home football Saturdays, except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is published by the students of Notre Dame and Sa1nt Mary's Col­lege. Subscriptions may be purchased for $25 per year ($ 15 per semester) by writ1ng The Observer. P.O. Box Q. Notre Dame. lnd1ana 46556. 
The Observer is a member of The Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
Second cJass postage pa1d at Notre Dame. Indiana 46556. 

Monday, September 21, 1981 -page 5
The Observer 

A 'planned approach' 
ND govt. deals "With students 
An examination ofthe structure of 

Notre Dame's Student Government 
reveals a planned approach to 
dealing with the concerns of stu­
dents. In addition. it provides an ef­
fective link between students and 
the Administration. 
As outlined in la~t week's article, Student Body President Don Mur­day's cabinet attempts to deal with specific areas of student life in a comprehensive manner, thus laying the groundwork for specific proposals to the Administration in these areas. Twenty -one cabinet positions exist, including five posts designnl to deal with special projects which may arise during the year. Tht· cabinet is divided into three sections. each guided by an Executivt· Coordinator. 
Gene Barra. Don Schmid, and Frank Tighe have the respon­sibilities of the Coordinator posi­tions. Barra outlines his job as ··acting as middleman between in-

Humane Society sponsors photo contest 
If you like taking pictures of animals, you'll be interested in a photography contest sponsored by The Humane Society of the United States. The HSllS is offering a S I SO Grand Prize for the best work sub­mitted and prizes of !50 (First Prize) and $25 (Second Prize) will be awarded in each of the four categories: PETS: Black & White 
PETS: Color 
NON-PETS: Black & White 
NON-PETS: Color 

The non-pets category includes horses, cattle and other livestock as well as wild animals, in captivity or out. 
Entries will be accepted until January I. 1982. 
For further details and a copy of the contest rules. send a self­addressed, stamped, business size envelope to: Photo Contest, HSUS, 2 I 00 L Street, NW, Washington, DC 200~7 . 
. . .Murphy 

continuedfrompage I 
"College to Career Days" and "Women's Opportunity Week." "College 10 Career Days" is Septem­bn 27 through October 2 and will begin with a keynote address hy Juliette Noone Lestn. who was the Secretary of Education underJimmy 
Carter. She will talk on "Planning l.ivt·styles and Careers After a Liberal Arts Education." Women's Oppor­tunity Week will he held :vlarch .21­27 and will feature outstanding women in several diffnent fields giving spt-echcs. We would like to get mon· people involved in this this year including the women from :'1/otre Dame and certainly any of the men who would like to come. 
Q: .Hall)' students bm•e spoken out against the parietal system at Saint .\1arr's. Is anything being done to change or re1•ise tbe present SJ'Sfem? 
A: Wt· recently sent out to the stu­dent~ a gt·neral studt·nt government survt·v which included t\vo ques­tions ahout parictals. We already have an ad hoc committee with the Board of Governance to begin working on changing the system if that is what the students want. We also sent out surveys to about thirty­five colleges similar to Saint .\1ary's -small, all-women's, etc.-to sec what thdr parictal systems are like. 
dividual cahinet members and the 
S.P.B. & S.B.V.P." Through weekly meetings with Murday and Student Body Vice -President Tara Ken­ney, the Executive Coordinators clarify the goals of student govern­ment and implement these prin­ciples in the various cabinet positions which they oversee. Tighe expresses his hope that "our presence will be evident in the smooth flow ofideas throughout the executive branch." His thoughts are echoed by Murday who stresses the necessity that "The Executive Coor­dinators serve as advisors and assis­
tants to the S.B.P. in formulating the positions and policies of this area of student govt·rnment." 

Working in tandem with the cahinet as it attempts to improve campus life, the Hall President's Council works to answer the needs of the on -campus student. At a school where 80/ of the students live in residence halls, the H.P.C. becomes the focal point of student concern. H.P.C. Chairman Mike Mar­tin outlines three goals which guide this year's H.P.C. actions. The primary concern is the improve­ment of campus and dorm life. 
examples ofwork in this area are the loft and keg proposals. The H.P.C. is also working to define the relation­ship between it and the Student Senate. Since Mike and three elected representatives from H.P.C. are senators, H.P.C. has a vital role in the drafting of all resolutions. Finally, the council is working to further its own identity as a governing body. Holy Cross President Brian Kane says "H.P.C. is the best representa­tive the students have. We're presenting the concerns of every dorm" 

Once proposals are drafted either in the cabinet or H.P.C., they arc sent to the Student Senate for ratification and refinement. Any official state­ment to the Administration from Student Government comes out of this body. The Senate is comprised of class presidents, H.P.C. reps, Off -Campus reps, the Judicial Chair­man, and four district senators, in ad­dition to Murday, Kenney, Student Union director Bill Lawler and Stu­dent Body Treasurer Karen Kiley. The Senate works with the everyday concerns of student life, leaving the cabinet and H.P.C. free to focus on long -range goals. 


---· ..... ··--.---···-····-·------------------------­



Sports Brie s 
_.. !i~ ....-_..._ 
oy '.f'''< ()/}ft'r!<'Y .tnJ Tht'A.if(J(/u/ed l!n•r 
Junior Craig Peters fired a five-under-par 279 to capture the championship ofthe Notre Dame Open, held at the Burke Memorial Golf Course. Peters, with rounds of 70-69-68-72, edged senior Bob Horak, the defending champion, by four strokes, and soph­omors: Frank Leyes by seven. Horak shot a final round 65, one over the course record.The Observer 
Lottery winners have until tomorrow at 4 p.m. to pick up their tickets for Saturday's Purdue game. Tickets not claimed by that time will be forfeited. Tickets may be picked up at the Student Union Ticket Office and Record Store.The Observer 
The Notre Dame baseball team split a 
doubleheader with Indiana State Saturday at jake Kline Field to raise · their fall season recofd to 3· l. In the first game the Sycamores coasted to a I 7-7 romp with the aid of two grand slam homeruns. Bob Hickey ( 0-I ) got the loss after relieving Steve Whitmyer in the fourth inning. The Irish fared better in the second game and took a 5-4 decision. Phil Dingle singlt:d with the bases loaded in the bottom of the seventh inning to give Notre Dame the victory. Highly regarded freshman pic­ther Bob Lopes ( 1-0) was the winner after starter Greg john left after 
three innings with the score at 3·3.The Observer 
Jim Morrison belteda two-run homer to help Richard 
Dotson and the Chicago White Sox to an I 1-3 beating Sunday of the 
Oakland A's. Morrison's homer, his ninth ofthe year, came in the sixth 
inning and scored Dotson. Chicago jumped to a 3-0 lead in the fifth 
inning. Wayne Nordhagen lined a single to center and took second 
when Oakland center fielder Dwayne Murphy misplayed the drive. 
Harold Baines singled to right to score Nordhagen, and Morrison and Tony Bernazard then drew walks from Oakland starter Mike Norris, I 1-8, to force in Baines. One out later, Lamar johnson flied to center scoring Morrison. Dotson, 9·7, breezed through the Oakland lineup for five ·innings, striking out six and allowing only a pair of harmless walks. But Dave McKay led ofthe sixth with a solo home run, his third of the year, and Rob Picdolo followed with a triple to left. One out later, Murphy's sacrifice fly to center field scored Picciolo. The White Sox clinched the triumph with a four-run seventh. -AP 

Saturday's Game 

Notre Dame  0  0  0  7  7  
M1ch1gan  0  7  12  6  25  
Scoring  

MICH-Anthony Carter. 71-yard pass from Steve Smith. (All Ha11·She1kh k MICH -Carter, 15-yard pass from Sm1th. (Pass fa1led) 
MICH-Lawrence R1cks t·yard run. (Run failed) 
MICH-Sm1th, 6-yard run (PI ass fa1led) 
ND-Masztak. B-yard pass from Koegel. (OI1ver k1ck) 
NO Mich First downs 12 19 Rush1ng attempts 38 59 Net Yards Rush<ng 70 304 Net Yards Pass1ng 143 103 Passes comp~attempted 11-26 4-15 Had mtercepted 2 2 Total NAt Yards 213 407 Fumbles-lost 1·0 1·0 Penalt1es-yards 2-19 8-67 Punts-average 9·39 7-43 Individual Leaders 
RUSHING -Notre Dame: Greg Bell 11-43: Phil Carter 9-32; Larry Monarty 4-15, Tony Hunter 7-11. John Sweeney 1-1. Blalf K1el 1-m1nus 9; T1m Koegel S·m1nus 23; M1ch1gan. Butch Woolfolk 23·139; Steve Sm1th 8·64: Stan Edwards 10·52; Lawrence R1cks 11­40. Anthony Carter 1-m1nus 12: PASSING-Notre Dame T1m Koegel 10·22·1 
139: Dave Condem 1-1-0. 4; Blalf K1el 0-2-2. 0: Tony Hunter 0-1-1. 0; M1ch1gan: Steve Sm1th 4-15-2, 103: 
RECEIVING -Notre Dame: Tony Hunte< 5-72: Dean Masztak 3·44; M1ke Boushka 1-13: Dave Con­dem 1-10; John Sweeney 1-4: M1ch1gan Anthony Carter 3-99; Butch Woolfolk 1-4: 
Attendance-105.888 

NO 5, Wheaton 4 

Singles No. 1 -Jane Nelson (W) del. Lisa LaFratta 6-4, 6-4. No. 2 -Kim Rumtilla (W) del. Linda Hoyer 6-2, 2-6, 6-1. 
Monday, September 21, 1981 -page 6 
No. 3-Pam Fishette (ND) del. 
Lisa Barber 6-4,6-0. FOOTBALLiJ::!if.!t::~::::i{!ti; No.4-Carol Shukis (ND) del. •llllilllllliillilllllliilillill••• 
Debbie Mucher 0-6, 7-6, 6-0. No. 5 -Laura Lee (ND) del. Laura Linstrom 6-4, 6-2. No.6-Peggy Walsh (ND) del. Robin Komanchki 2-6, 6-3, 7-5. 
Doubles No. 1 -Nelson/Ltnstrom (W) del. Hoyer/LaFratta 6-2. 6-2. 
No.2-Rumtilla/Barber (W) del. Fishette/L1sa Gleason 6-4, 4·6, 6­4. 
No. 3 -Lee /Camille Cooper (ND) del. Cherry Tabb/partner 6-1. 6-0 
NO 9, Evansville 0 

Singles No. 1 -Hoyer (ND) del. Keely Porter 6-4, 7-5. No.2-Fishette (ND) def. Melis­
sa Happe 6-0, 6-0  
No.  3  Shukis  (ND)  del.  
Borenda Gable 6-0, 6-0.  
No.  4  - Lee  (ND)  del.  Ruth  
Paurazas 6-0, 6-0.  

No.5-Walsh (ND) def. Ktm Wil­liams 6-0, 6-2. No.6-Cooper(ND)del. Teresa Lamb 6-2, 6-0 
Doubles No. 1 -LaFratta/Hoyer (ND) del. Porter/Happe 6-3, 6-1. 
No. 2 -Fishette/Tina Stephan (ND) del. Gable/Paurazas 6-0, 6-2. No. 3-Gleason/Cathy Schnell 
(ND) del. Williams/Lamb 6-2. 6-0. 
NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE NATIONAL CONFERENCE 

East  
W L Pet.  PF  PA  
Ph1ladelph1a 3 0 1.000  57  27  
Dallas 2 0 1.000  56  27  
NY. G1ants 2 1 667  47  38  
Sl. LOUIS 1 2 333  64  80  
Washington 0 3 .000  47  83  
Central  
Detroit 1 2 333  71  71  
Green Bay 2 333  56  75  
Ch1cago 2 333  54  61  
M1nnesota 2 333  49  81  
Tampa Bay 2 333  48  60  
West  
Allanta 3 0 1.000  92  34  
Los Angeles 2 333  72  73  
San Franc1sco 2 .333  62  75  
New Orleans 2 .333  30  64  
AMERICAN CONFERENCE  
East  
W L Pet.  PF  PA  
M1am1 3 0 1 000  66  27  
Buffalo 2 1 .667  80  23  
Ba1t1more 1 2 333  42  91  
New England 0 2 000  31  42  
NY Jets 0 3 .000  40  100  
Central  
C1ncmnat1 2 1 667  75  71  
Houston 2 1 .667  46  39  
P1ttsburgh 2 333  81  77  
Cleveland 2 .333  37  70  
West  
SanD<ego 3 0 1 000  114  68  
KansasC1ty 2 667  87  85  
Oakland 2 .667  63  29  
Denver 2 1 667  47  30  
Seattle 2 333  44  57  
Thursday's Result  
Ph1ladelph1a 20. Buffalo 14  
Yesterday's Results  
Cleveland 20. C1ncmnat1 17  
M1nnesota 26. Detroit 24  
M1am1 16. Houston 10  
Pittsburgh 38. N Y. Jets 10  
Atlanta 34. San Franc1sco 17  
St LoUis 40. Wash1ngton 30  
San D1ego 42. Kansas C1ty 31  
Ch1cago 28. Tampa Bay 17  
Denver 28, Baltimore 1 0  
Los Angeles 35. Green Bay 23  
N.Y G1ants 20. New Orleans 7  
Oakland 20. Seatlle 10  
Today's Game  
Dallas at New England (n)  

The Observer will accept classifieds Monday through Friday, 10 a.m. to 4:30p.m. However, clas­sifieds to be run in the next issue must be received by 3 p.m. the business day prior to insertion. All clas­sifieds must be prepaid, either in person or through 

Classifieds the mail. 
·---------·-------.. 

' ~ ..~~ .. "'!P' ~ ._, ,---;
'L i'~'-' H..__,;:~ l 
--------_____j 

USED BOOK SHOP HOURS WED. SAT. SUN. 9-7 CASPERSON. 1303 BUCHANAN RD.. NILES. 
IMPROVE YOUR GRADES• Research catalog-306 pages-10.278 top1cs-Rush $1.00 Box 25097C. Los Angeles. 90025 (213) 477-8226 
NEED RIDE TO HOUSTON TEX. FOR OCTOBER BREAK CALL CHRIS AT x1678 ANYTIME. WILL SHARE USUAL 
ATTENTION!!' Any one 1n1erested 1n orgamz1ng an N D SUBA DIVING club please contact Rob at 289-5317 
.---------------·--­
l LCj~;i'/F.-:;~:JND 
l..--·--------·-------' 
LOST. One Quartz Se1ko watch The round watch was lost on Sept 5. al Corby·s or ND Ave. and has greal sen­timental value Reward offered. Call 277­4681 
LOST. 1-IRON. CHI-CHI RODRIGUEZ TOURNAMENT (NORTHWESTERN). PLEASE CALL x 1771 
LOST:set of keys 1n front of Farley Hall Tuesday n1ght lwo key cha1ns attached w<th total of mne keys. They are needed desperately call3887 
LOST. a red N D. notebook 1n North D1n1ng Hall E/F l1nes last Monday Need badly. call Kev1n at 1798 
found. on Man 9114 between P E. & 
P.W wnstwatch. half band m1ss1ng. To tdenllfy and clatm. call8058 
~--------------·----" 
L_£?~!_R~N!_j 
RENT TO OWN A COLOR TV OR STEREO CALL SUN APPLIANCE 291­5112 
UGLY DUCKLING RENT-A-CAR From $8 95 a day and 8 cents a m1le. Phone 259-8459 for reservat1ons 
Near NO. Furn Kitchenette Apt . Ut1IS. 272·6174 
One bdrm apt.. furn . reasonable rent. call287-5361 after 6p m 
NOTRE DAME APTS 1/3 or 2/3 su1te sublease available close to ND call DAVE at 288·4170 ANYTIME 
RECENTLY AVAILABLE ONE AND THREE BEDROOM APTS ONE BEDROOM HOUSE 234·2626 
Sludent hous1ng. clean. safe. laundry. k1tchen. rated supenor. $100 1ncludes all 291-1405 
,---:~ ~-~--.:-~... ~ ------! 
1 '/;,'r;,,;·;, ,:::i_.l . 
L _____ ..--·------·.. ...: 
NEED EXTRA INCOME? DO YOU LIKE SALES? DO YOU HAVE YOUR OWN CAR? If so. you could become a sales· man selling microcomputers and related soft· ware programs 1n the M1ch1ana area Hours are flexible to f1t your schedule Work when you have the t1me. Call Carl Larsson at 233-9922 for more_ Informa­tion 
TAX ACCOUNTANTS. ACCOUNTING MAJORS!! Need extra 1ncome? vVould you like to work a couple of hours a week and earn good money. Call Carl Larsson at 233·9922 for more 1nforma110n 
UNIVERSITY CLUB HAS OPENING FOR LUNCH DISHWASHER HOURS 11:30·2:30 MON.·FRI HOURLY RATE APPLY IN PERSON. 9 A.M .'5 PM NO PHONE CALLS. PLEASE 
RIDERS needed PURDUE weekend. leave Thurs or Fn 3053 
...... 

,;:~ ":.. J>'.>'ri-$_ ~-~ 
SURPLUS JEEPS. CARS. TRUCKS. Car-1nv. value $2143 sold for $100 For mtormallon on purchasmg s1m1lar bar· ga1ns. call 602/941·8014. ext. 3648 Phone call refundable 
FOR SALE 
72 CHRYSLER NEWPORT 
49000 MI. EXC. COND $1000 
SCOTT-4204 
1975 BUICK Cenlury. well used but de­pendable Ideal for sen1ors. For 1n1nfo call Daveal3633 
Stereo for sale. lrntble. cassl. spkrs. equalizer. all1n good shape. Call Bern1e at 7666 
FOR SALE. 1964 BUICK · $125 call 283­1611 after 10 PM 
FOR SALE. 110 LB WEIGHT SET 2 DUMBELLS AD BARBELL INCLUDED AND ONE PADDED BENCH. BRAND NEW (HONEST) MAKE OFFER CALL GORDON AT 277·3617 
MUST SELL 84 carat diamond engage­men! :·111g. Appra1sed at $4.160. W1ll ac­cept best offer. Call287·8267 
PLANTS PLANTS PLANTS Colleg1ate Plant Fa1r comes to NO LaFortune Ballroom 9 lo 6 thiS Wednesday and Fnday PLANTS PLANTS PLANTS 
Penn St. ticket wanted please call Donna at 6771 
MUST BUY FOUR MSU TIX FOR FAMI­LY VISITING!' PLEASE CALL CAT. 1273 
NEED 2-4 GA TIX FOR ALL HOME FOOTBALL GAMES. CALL ART AT 1593 
Help! Need 2 or more llx to any game. esp M1ch. Sl Call Maureen 284-4156 W111 pay good$$ 
Desperately need 2 or 3 GAs for F S U Will pay BIG bucks Call Tom 8531 or8529 
DAD IS WALKING FROM TACOMA WASHINGTON FOR USC GAME' MUS-T GET 2 TIX' HE HAS ALREADY STARTED WALKING! CALL BILL AT 1678. OR PAUL AT 1670 
Desperalely need 2 FSU AND 2 USC TIXS ! Money IS no obtect ' Call Sieve 8265 
HEY!\\ I NEED GA TIX FOR Af'IY HOME GAME PLEASE CALL DAN AT 288· 6251 ANY TIME AFTER 6 
I need 3 or 4 GA tiCkets for lhe M1ch1gan Stale game. Call1222 and ask for Peter 
PLEASE HELP!! Need 2 or 4 Penn St 
GAs Will pay b1g bucks. xt142 
NEED U.S.C. STUDENT TIX ··WILL PAY BUCKSI!! CALL JIM 6802 
NEED 2 MSU GA TICKETS WILL PAY TOP PRICE.CALL287-2088 EVENINGS 
HEY YOU OUT THERE !II!! YES YOU 
Ill!!II NEED MANY GAS TO THE NAVY 
GAME. IF CAN HELP. OR JUST FEEL 
LIKE TALKING TO A PRETTY GIRL 
CALL6772. 

Need 4 MICH ST t1x Please Call 1827 
Need Penn State and USC 11cke1s Pnce noobtect. Call J1m 1163 
DESPERATELY NEEDED' 4 GAs to USC Money IS no obtecl' W1ll oulb1d any other offer Call Rob al 8428 
2 GA FLORIDA STATE TIX NEEDED BADLY. MONEY NO OBJECT Bob 234­0418 
Need 2 or 4 GA s for I he Flonda Sl game Call Ralph al 1 007 
NEED MSU TIX W1ll pay$$$. Blll8927 
HELP! NEED ';A TIX FOR MICHIGAN STATE GAME CALL MARIANNE 277­1099 
NEED GA TIX TO ANY HOME FOOT­BALL GAME. CALL CATHY 277-2244 
BEGORRAII I NEED LOTS 0 TIX FOR FLA. ST! WILL PAY A POT 0 GOLD' RING ME AT 8580 NOWII 
Have 2 USC and 2 MSU GA. W1ll trade for FSU llx. Call Ed 1208 
I NEED 2 G A MICHIGAN STATE TIXII WILL PAY$$$ CALLJIM 4642 
NEED USC TIX. ONE STUDENT AND TWO GAs CALL CHRIS AT 1678 
NEED 2 NAVY AND 2 MICH. STATE GA TICKETS CALL LARRY· 1049 
PLEASE II' NEED 2 TICKETS (GA) FOR FSU AND GA TECH WilL PAY BUCKS CALL JOE 8866 
Need 4 GA t1ckets for any home game Call Lynn al8007 
W1ll pay top$ for ND-USC game t1ckets Need 6 t1ckets. best 1ocat1on ava1lable Please call collect 17141 835-6505 ask lor Tony Herenda or Jud1 Carlos. 
NEEDED!! 2 MICHIGAN STATE GA TIX WILL PAY$$$ CALL JIM AT 4642 
DESPERATELY NEED TICKETS FOR MICHIGAN OR FLORIDA STATE STUDENT OR G A TICKETS CALL DAVE 1809 
badly needed 2or3 GAs for the M1ch1gan Slate game. Call J1m al3562 
PURDUE TICKET FOR SALE 3053 
1 Purdue t1cket for sale Call 232·3185 eves 
DESPERATELY NEED 2 STUDENT OR GA TIX FOR MSU WILL PAY MEGA BUCKS CALLKATHY2126 
Big bucks lor USC or FSU tix. Call Mark at 1074. 
Need 4 MSU and 4 USC GA llx John 1001 
Need 2 GA MSU IIX Money no Obtecl Call Susan 41·4361 
Desperately need 2 USC GA llx Money noobtecl Ca11Mana41·5191 
I need 2 USC llx. studenl or GA. money IS no obtect Call Bndgel 41 -5153 
!!!-DESPERATE-If! 
Need 2 t1x to see lnsh trounce TroJans 
Also double occupancy room Oct 23-24 
If you have Mher/or. When you THINK 
you have your BEST pnce. call Bob Daley 
COLLECT (212) 762-0242 
I WILL NOT BE OUTBID! 
SURFS UP--If I can get 1 GA or Studenl t1ckel for USC game For fun·m-the-sun guy from FLA Have a heart'! Call Pam 4-1 5236. 
MUST FIND 2 FSU TICKETS. student or GA w1ll pay cash or lrade one USC stu­den! l1cket PLEASE HELP''! call Susan 816354 
I need 3 MSU slud. or GA l:x. Need nol be logelher M1ck 1809 
Need U S.C. llckels 3 G a s and 2 Slu­
denls. Will pay well and/or trade for Navy 
G A s (If you like) Call Ron at 6261 
Thanks 
DESPERATELY NEED USC TIX AM WILLING TO TRADE ROLLING STONE TIX TO DETROIT SHOW NOV 30 PREFER G. As BUT MIGHT SETTLE FOR STUDENT TIX. CALL CHRIS AT 1678 
NEED 2 MICH ST TIX CALL 8700 
NEED 2 ADJACENT PURDUE GAs Call Phll1764 
WHASUP? I need 2 GAs lo FSU Call J1m 3310 
WILL SELL SOUL FOR 2 NAVY GAS AND 2 STU S AND 2 GA TECH GAS AND 2 STU S MARK 1164 
NEED FLORIDA ST TICKET CALL JOHN 1615 
Mom and Dad to Notre Dame come 
For FSU foolball and lotsa fun 
All the way !rom sunny Cal 
Come Sen1or parents Chuck and Sal 
If 2 t1ckets to the game I fa11 to get 
I must pay entire college debt! 
Need 2 GA for FSU N1co1e-8092 
BIG BUCKS FOR USC OR FSU GA TIX. CALL MARK AT 1074. 
SOCIAL CONCERNS FILM SERIES·.. Seplember 15-26 
Soc1al Concerns F11m Senes 
WAR WITHOUT WINNERS LaFortune L1111e Theatre ---Sepl 22 23 &24 12 00 noon ... FREE AdmiSSIOn 
Soc1al Concerns F11m Senes 
BREAKER MORANT 
Sepl 22.23.24 •·· 7 & 9:30pm 
Eng1neenng Audllonum 
1 00 AdmiSSIOn 
Hey Mary Belh Slerl1ng1 You d1dn I lh1nk I d forget. did you? Happy 22nd blflhday'l hope the w1ndy c1ty IS lreallng you well I m sure you·ll celebrate 1n the traditional Domer manner 22 beers perhaps? Have a super day' Barbs little brolher 
HI EVERYONE' BOSTON IS GREAT BERKLEE IS A PARADISE: NO MATH. NO CHEM. NO ACCT OR PHIL. ONLY MUSIC. ANYHOW. IF YOU WANT A COPY OF MY 1ST ALBUM WRITE TO ME LUIS ALVAREZ. 52 WESTLAND AVE APT No.11 BOSTON. MASS 02115 HAVE A GOOD SEMESTER AND TAKE CARE OF THE DOME! P S MISS YOU ALL! 
Marguente When are you go1ng to have another 1n· t1ma1e candlelight d1nner w11h THUM­PER? Glad to see your ch01ce 1n guys IS 1mprov1ng 
0-C NITE al IRI!:)H COUNTRY ton1ght Watch Dallas play New England and en­JOY $2 00 p1lchers 
H1 Suste. Ann Jo Angela. Ten and all other party·tard1ers!!! 
PSYCH CLUB MIXER for all mterested students. Man 9/21181 7pm 100 Haggar Hall 
MOBY! I love Fn ahernoons! How bout you? OOHMAHI 
HEY BIG JON TALTY--HOW COULD YOU FORESAKE ALL THOSE ND BABES FOR THOSE ROMAN WENCHES GUESS ITS BECAUSE 
YOU REA GOD'!!!!!!' MISS YA BIG CAT -THE FLANNER NINES 
Happy B1rthday Doug!'! S1111 grounded be· cause of the A1r Tratt1c controllers stnke 
Part lime JOb for AM Lung Assoc Salur­da y nours Musl have car Catl287-2321 
ForJo 
Roses are red 
V1ole!s are blue 
Thousands have blt the dust 
And now you have too1 And the abuse goes on and on and on 
Dear Impostor Boo Boo Please keep lhlS stra1ght 1 won I tolerate th1s any longer!!HI Tne REAL Boo Boo 


----~ ~--~--~-~--~------------~---·-----­
The Observer Monday, September 21, 1981 -page 7 
• • . Billikens 
continuedfrom page 12 
some tine Billiken teamwork t1ve minutes into the second half. 
But just when it looked like the 
lrbh were running out of gas and 
beginning to crumble, co-captain 
Sami Kahale beat the entire St. Louis 
defense to a feed from teammate 
Steve Berry that <.:hanged the course 
of the match. 
Those last -tS minutes. through the end of regulation and both ovcrtimes. couldn't have been more evenly playt·d as the Irish thrived on their new-found life and the Bil­likens pullnl out all the stops, trying to escape and save face. Each team blew chances to put things away ti>r thl'lnsdvcs--cspccially llaycs who 
continuedfrom page 10 
"gopher" pitch. 
It isn't as if Vida's fastball has now 
become a milk run, or comes up to 
the plate like something thrown offa 
mail car in a sack. "It has lost some 
movement," Vida admits. "But vou 
can hardly pick your teeth while 
watching it approach. It's still in the 
90 to 9:~-milc-an-hour range. I can't 
ovcrpowt-r hitters the way I used to, 
but on my good night, they'd better 
havt· that bat moving." 
The rt·ally distressing part of 
Blue's slider ti>r a hitter is it looks 
like a fastball until ~ all ofa sudden 
-the hitters realize it's an imposter. 
"It's almost like you sec this nice 
little old lady coming," John 
McNamara onn· obst-rved. "And 
tht·n, when sht· gets right on top of 
you, you rt·alizt· it's a guy with a 
knife." 
Now that Vida Blue has come up 
with a pitch with a knife in it, is it 
likdy the Commissioner of baseball 
will look the other way if he were to 
be traded? Or did the Commissioner 
ju!'tt tl.·t.·l thal tht· San Francisco 
<1iams could _not p,>ssibly havc hurt t1lc compellllve 1)a1ancc un1ess the entire 192"' Yankees lllO\'l'd in' The San l'rancisco Giants, you sec, have the t1nely honed competitive balance of the 19SO St. Louis Browns. But Vida Blue, who has now won I7H games, can take comti>rt in 

Buy 

Observer 


Oassifieds
•· 


~· ~f 

t---The Great --1 American Forum JACK ANDERSON Friday, Sept. 25 8:00p.m. Buy your tickets today Student Discount! 
was twice denied from gimmee range by Notre Dame ket'per Jolui 
\tilligan. 
Then came the call. Referee Blasevitch whistled Ha~"t'S for a foul when it appeared the St. Louis striker had a clean breakawaY. While the Billiken bench fumed ,;n:r that call, Blascvitch whistled St. Louis' Jim Kavanaugh for a foul in the penaltY area and Kahale's conver­sion gave the Irish their miracle. 
··It was a tough call to make but it's happened against us so many times." Kahale explained. "The whole thing is that it was a dose game that could have gone either ·way. We con­trolled the tempo most of the way and played our game. We beat 
Blue 

the fact that, for one shining mo­ment back there, baseball had either to t1nd a higher kague for him -or make him stay in a dungeon at Oak­land. Anything else would have wrecked the grand old game. No one else ever had that kind of compli­ment paid to him by the game. 
them." 

Rich Hunter, the tlve-year ar­chitect of Notre Dame's astonishing success that has culminated in a NCAA Top Twenty rating this week. said: "The whole game isn't decided on one call. You win some and you lose some that way. St. Louis got a goal on a mistake by the referee of a rule interpretation and we didn't get a penalty kick in the last minute (of regulation) when :\1anta got timled in the area. 
"For our kids to even get to the point where they had a chance to beat St. Louis is something I ne\Tr thought possible," he added. "We've been talking about this game ti>r a year after they embarrassed us down there. The kids worked all winter. all spring, and all summer to get to this game and they played their hearts out. They deserve it." 
Those Notre Dame kids without a 
single scholarship deserve it as 
much as their coaches. And the St. 
Louis kids with all their scholarships 
and all their history deserve what 
they got. 

St. Louis will still go to the playoffs 
and Notre Dame may not. But this 
I9H I Irish team wrote some history 
ofit's own that should never be con­
strued as tainted. 






The highest standards are always the hardest to achieve. Yet they're also the most rewarding. 
At General Dynamics' Electronics Division we're committed to excellence in the application of advanced technology to the design, development and manufacture of electronic systems and components. 
We're also committed to provide challenging, responsible assignments and many avenues for career growth to those who join us. 
If your degree is in Electrical/ Electronic, Computer Science. Mathematics, Systems Engineering, Systems Analysis, Physics, Mechanical. Industrial or Manufacturing Engineering, Business Administration, Finance or Economics 
we'd like to talk with you about your opportunities at Electronics. 
See your campus placement office to arrange an interview. Or, send your r~sume to: College Relations Coordinator, General Dynamics Electronics Division, Mail Zone 7-32, 
P.O. Box 81127, San Diego, CA 92138. 
And find out JUSt how rewarding our mutual commitment can be. An equal opportunity employer 
GENERAL CVNAMIC:S 
Electronics Division 
.• :: 
::. 


:· ,.
Campus interviews October1&2. 

---~­

The Observer Monday, September 21, 1981 -page 8 


-----•!ACCOUNTING MAJORS~•-----· 
I 

Are you wondering whether to join an accounting firm where you will work closely with engagement partners or-a large national firm with International scope and Influence? 
Main Hurdman & Cranstoun 
Invites you to join both. 
Main Hurdman & Cranstoun invites you to explore the best of bot'h worlds. 
STUDENT RECEPTION IN THE
PLACEMENT OFFICE SIGN-UP ON-CAMPUS INTERVIEWS UNIVERSITY CLUB
WEEK OF NOVEMBER 3rd NOVEMBER 13th & 14th 
WEDN::SDAY, NOVEMBEP 12th 7:00 P.M.
I I 


Main Hurdman&Cranstoun 
certified public accountants Jf!Tlh 
... ! 
---------------,-,-----1i:*~)lftit~~ 
lnter:wtionRI firm -KMG Klynveld Main Goerdeler "'i::,-~.:1~~4"­lllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllilllllliiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii.IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIEQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER~IIIIIIIIIIII 







U.S. Steelinvitesyou 
to checkouta career 


inmanagement. 
D 
D 
D 
You're a self-starter. U.S. Steel is a company on the move, and we're looking for people with the initiative to tackle major projects and push them through to completion. You're a fast thinker.While the clock ticks, you may have to make decisions involving the future of thousands of U.S. Steel people-and the in­vestment of millions ofdollars. You're a team player. At a dynamic place like U.S. Steel, guiding and motivating others is likely to be an important part of your career in 
management. 

Today U.S. Steel is a whole lot more than the nation's largest steelmaker. 
We're in chemicals, with annual sales of over $1 billion. We're in resource development, ready to fill industry's growing needs for coal, iron ore, ura­nium and other vital materials. We build complex structures all over the country. We offer engineering services all over the world. And that's far from all. 
Join us, and you're immediately a full-fledged member of our manage­ment team. Your opportunity for advancement is as bright as you are. 
~ United States Steel Meet the U.S. Steel representative on campus: 
I RADE'-'AFIK 

Thurs., Oct. 29 
Main  Hurdman  &  Cranstoun,  a  
founding  member  of  Klynveld  
Main  Goerdeler,  one  of  the  
largest  public  accountin~  

organizations in the world, offers diverse client engage­ments and all the opportuni­ties for accelerated profes­sional growth that a young accountant could ask for. With practice offices in 81 
U.S. cities and 70 foreign countries, Main Hurdman & 
Money is good. Fringe benefits are liberal. And you can take advantage of a variety of continuing personal-devel­opment programs-including tuition refund. 
Visit your placement office and check out the openings our representa­tive plans to discuss. But don't worry if what interests you most happens not to be on the list. Just write us with your qualifications: Dave Bates, College Relations, U.S. Steel, 600 Grant St., Pittsburgh, PA 15230. An equal opportunity employer. 
Cranstoun has all the research capabilities; coordinated mar­keting strengths, and compre­hensive educational programs of an international firm, 
while providing  all  the  ad­ 
vantages  -close  client  con­ 
tact,  frequent  partner/staff  

interaction, informal working atmosphere, and rapid advance­ment to positions of respon­sibility-today's professionals seek. 
Georgia 'Dawgs' bite falls short of their bark 
How 'bout them Tigers? 

Sorry 'bout that, you Georgia Dawgs, but the Clemson Tigers stole your thunder, so they might as well swipe your theme song, too. 
The fourth-ranked Georgia Bul­ldogs, college football's defending national champions, traveled to Death Valley, alias Clemson Memorial Stadium, and saw the na­
((The game was won by the Clemson defense." 

tion's longest winning streak snapped at 15 games Saturday. Clemson intercepted five of Buck Belue's passes, recovered four of Georgia'-s five fumbles and stopped the Bulldogs 13-3. 
Coach Vince Dooley was phil­sophical about Georgia's loss. 
"The game was won by the Clem-
MONDAY NIGHT FOOTBALL SPECIAL enjoy the game with: 
-HOTDOGS 
754 


52885 US 31 North -ICE COLD DRAFTS 
South Bend. 272-5478 

-shots of schnapps when your team scores 
son defense," he said. 

Second-ranked USC prepared for 
next week's showdown with No. 3 
Oklahoma, which was idle, by 
defeating Indiana 2I-O. 

Fifth-ranked Penn State had a week off while sixth-rated Texas trimmed North Texas State 23-0, No.7 Pitt whipped Cincinnati 38-7, eighth-ranked Ohio State downed Michigan State 27-I3, No.9 UCLA flattened No.20 Wisconsin 3I-13 and I Oth-ranked North Carolina crushed Miami of Ohio 49-7 as Kel­vin Bryant scored five times, giving him I I touchdowns in two games. 
In the Second Ten, 12th-ranked Alabama appeared listless in beating Kentucky 19-10, No.13 Brigham Young spoiled Billy Alton's debut as Texas-El Paso's head coach by swamping the Miners 65-8 behind Jim McMahon's four touchdown passes, No.I4 Mississippi State turned back Vanderbilt 29-9, No.1 5 
Washington downed Kansas State 20-3, No.16 Miami, Fla. shaded Houston 12-7, No.17 Nebraska trimmed Florida State 34-14 and No.18 Arizona State held offWichita State 33-21. 
~ 

.... 
The Observer Monday, September 21, 1981 -page 9 
Carter vs. Krimm 
All-American matchup 
By SKIP DESJARDIN 
Assistant Sports Editor 
ANN ARBOR -ABC blew it. Rather than billing this game as "number one: Notre Dame faces powerful Michigan," thev should have told America "Heis~an can-
NFL 

continuedfrom pa[(e 10 
Raiders' fullback Derrick Jensen plunged I yard for a touchdown ear­ly in the fourth quarter, helping preserve: Oakland's victory over Seattle, 1-2. The: Raiders, 2-1, led 13­3 at the halfon a 13-yard touchdown run by quarterback Jim Plunkett in the first period and a 29-yard Plunkett pass to Morris Bradshaw just before the half. Seattle pulled within three when Jim Zorn passed 36 yards to Sam McCullum for a score t•arly in the: second half. 
Drew Hill snared a 30-yard touch­down pass from backup quarterback .Jdf Rutkdge late: in the third period to t•rase a 16-14 deficit and send Los Angeles to its first victory in three games. Cullen Bryant and Wendell Tyler scored fourth-quarter touch­downs on short runs for the Rams, who dealt Green Bay its second loss in three games. 
The Giants, 2-1, got a pair of field goals from Joe Dando, including a club record <;<;.yarder, and Phil Simms threw for 324 yards, includ­ing I 2 yards to Gary Shirk for one of New York's touchdowns, to beat the Saints, 1-2. Dando's long field goal broke the previous team record of <;4 yards by Pt·te Gogolak in 1970. 
• • .Ready 
continuedfrom page 12 
quartnback Steve Smith ( 4-1 H for I0.~ yards). "They really gave us something to work against. I came into this game seeing the same things I had seen in practice this week. I'd turn around and there would actually be holes opened up in the line. They did a great job." 
Blasting through those holes were 
Wolverine hacks Woolfolk ( 139 
yards), Stan Edwards ( S 2 yards) and 
Lawrt·nce Ricks ( 40 yards, one 
touchdown). And Smith (64 yards, 
one touchdown) had few problems 
running the option, especially be­
hind 275-pound blockers like tackle 
Ed Muransky. 
"Notre Dame is noted for their hooting and hollering and (Bob) Crable's their main guy," Muransky related in a jubiliant Michigan locker room. "So we just tattooed him a few times. We heat them the last two games, but they just got more points than we did. We knew how lucky they were, so we had to blow them out this time." 
"We came back after a rather poorish performance against Wis­consin. and I'm real pleased about that." ofl'ered Schembechler. "But we're still 0-1 in the league. I'm not sure I wouldn't trade this for a win last week." 
ROCCOS  
men's and women's hairstyling at comfortable prices 531 N. Michigan 233-4957  


didate Anthony Carter takes on All­
American John Krimm." 
At first glance, one sees the scoring summary. One sees Anthony Caner and his two touchdown pass receptions. and automatically assumes that the battle was one­sided. A discerning eye, however, would have seen Krimm, matched up against the premier wide receiver in college football. and doing a damn good job. 
For much ofthe afternoon. Krimm had to cover Carter by himself. Only occasionallv did Irish coa~hes feel they could afford to offer the double-coverage the speedster so richly deserve.:;. Most of the time, Krimm was on his own. 
When Smith threw the knuck­leball that Carter waited for, gathered in and ran in for a 71 vard touchdown, Rod Bone and St~cey Toran had drawn the assignment of covering him. When Carter got open again, and again went in for a touch­down, Dave Duerson was supposed to be there helping out. 
Carter only caught one other pass all day. Krimm dropped one pass he should have intercepted. He inter­cepted another, and returned it eleven yards. He had another inter­ception called back, in the end zone, on a questionable pass interference call. And he broke up another poten­tial touchdown pass with a leap that would have done Magic Johnson proud. 
Not a bad afternoon. 
"Carter is the fastest receiver I've played against," Krimm said before the game. He confirmed that fact af. tern·ard. "He's the best receiver we'll go up against. He's very quick and you don't get a good piece of him." 
Krimm takes the blame for the second touchdown pass. On that play, Carter proved why he is one of the top candidates for the Heisman Trophy. After making the catch, he made a move that left Krimm laying on the sidelines. Then he made an­other that left Duerson grasping an armful of air. But defensive co­ordinator Jim Johnson offerred ab­solution. 
"We really got burned on the second touchdown because we blitzed," Johnson said. "that created problems for us all day." 
Carter was as respectful of his op­ponent in victory as Krimm was in defeat. "Krimm's a great ball player," he said after the game. "He's a great ball player, and I don't want to take anyhting away from him." 
The Sporting News says Krimm is the best cornerback in the nation. Everybody says Carter is college football's best wide receiver. At the end of the season, the two are likely to run into one another at All­America banquets across the country. Those meetings are likely to be far more cordial than was their match-up Saturday afternoon. 
1---------------~-----------RIVERL:ITY RECORDS · 
I 50970 US 31 North 
1  Northern Indiana's largest Selection of Albums & Tapes.  
1  Why pay rnore any place else?  
I I  411' l.OO OF.F'any regul~r ~ecord or tape with ad. ljJ . L1m1t 1 per person  1-­ 
I  ~  Expires Oct. 1,1981  

eOpen till 10 every night 13 miles North of Campus e ND/SMC checks cashedI next to AI 's Supermarket up to $20 over purchase amountI 1 277-4242 eRecord Crates available 

·--------------------------· 

Afi-America ll'ide receit•er Anthony Carter git•es Notre Dame cor­nerbackJohn Krimm a lillie bead and shoulder fake on Ibis lf'o/­11erine running plti)'. While acting as a de('(~)' for most oftbe game, Carter stif/ came up 1l'ilb three catches for 9'J yards and tu•o toucb­dou'IIS, as the IJ?olt•es 11'011 tbeir home-opener. (Photo b)' John 
.11acor) 
SmC STUDENT GOVT ALLOCATION APPLICATIONS Due Today Student Activities Office 168 Lemans 
Allocations will be distributed ffion., Sept. 28 



TheSOUTH BEND~orriott "otet announces the opening ofits Employment Center. 
Positions Available Guest Services Food and Beverage Services 
Bell Captain Waiters and Waitresses Front Desk Clerks/Cashiers Restaurant Front Desk Supervisor Cocktail Lounge 
Bell Staff Room Service Reservations Agents Banquet& Gift Shop Sales Clerks/Cashiers Hosts and Hostesses Pool Attendants Restaurant Parking Garage Cashiers Cocktail Lounge Coat Room Clerks Bartenders 
Cashiers Bar Backs Cooks Kitchen Station Attendants Kitchen Utility Personnel Room Service Operators/Cashiers Banquet Captain Dining Room Attendants Kitchen Aisle Attendant Baker Employee Cafeteria Su~ervisor Employee Cafeteria Utility Personnel Broiler Cooks 
Interviews will be held on the following days ONLY: 
Monday, September 21, 1981 9:00a.m.-5:00p.m Tuesday, September 22, 1981 9:00a.m. -5:00 p.m Wednesday, September 23. 1981 1:00 p.m.-8:00p.m. Thursday, September 24. 1981 1:00 p.m. -8:00 p.m. 
If you are interested in a position with the new South Bend Marriott Hotel. please come to our Woodward Court Employment Center on the interview dates shown. Phone calls cannot be accepted. 
Location of the South Bend Marriott Hotel. 
Employment Center in 
downtown South Bend: Enter Employment Center from Woodward Court Between 
Colfax Avenue and Washington Street. 

We are hiring now for the new South Bend Marriott Hotel. The South Bend Marriott Hotel will be open in early November 1981. 
Support Services Telephone Operations Supervisor Security Guards 
Telephone Operators Housekeepers· Linen Room Attendants Linen Room Supervisor Senior Housekeepers Housekeeping Aides Meeting Room Set-up Personnel Building Maintenance Personnel Night Auditors Accounts Receivable/Payable Clerks Refrigeration Mechanic 
.. .. 

r_-_j-.,--.-_---_--_-_----____j__,.......,..L-, cuccAx AVENuE '"o"'' ,, 
Reflecting~=..~-~­
~ --"~ -,-­
~ ~~,!'~; M 
-cENTER ­

· ~~ \ 

SouthBend'sl.Omorrow.
Ill g Soult! ~nd Marrioll Ho1el. 

e ~ ~ ~-Opening
J

l ~ -~rST~E~ Eo:".N~ 1981 


An Equal Opportunity Employer 
The South Bend Marriott Hotel is dedicated to a Guarantee of Fair Treatment 
1".§ ~~~~~ ---~ :
. 

for all our employees, thorough training and attractive wages and benefits. 
~\\\.._ '------' 
• E JEFFERSON BLVD 
This is your opportunity to join our Marriott Team at this exciting time ... the opening of the new South Bend Marriott Hotel. 
w• 

.. 
~­
... 

The Observer Monday, September 21, 1981 -page 10 
NFL Roundup 
Dolphins upset Oilers 
By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS 
Quarterback Don Strock, a third­quarter substitute. threw a 3-yard touchdown pass with 6:40 left to play, boosting the Miami Dolphins to a 16-10 victory over Houston in the National Football League Sun­day. 
Strock, replacing starter David Woodley, completed seven of 10 passes for 62 yards and engineered the drive that kept the Dolphins, 3-0, undefeated. It was the first time this year any team had scored a second­half touchdown against Houston, 2­
1. 
Miami's first nine points came on field goals by l'we von Schamann of 32, 37 a1.d 27 yards. Houston scored on a 7 ~ -yard touchdown bomb by Ken Stabler to Ken Burroughs in the first quarter and a 40-yard Toni Fritschfield goal in the third quarter. 
Miami sacked Stabler eight times for 62 yards in losses. Four of the .... sacks were by tackle Bob Baum­
hower. 
Coach Don Shula said he replaced Woodley with Strock to start the second half because he wanted more experience in the lineup. 
"The Oilers were confusing Woodley with their coverages, and we just wanted more experience in the game," Shula said. 
In other NFL games Sunday, Cleveland defeated Cincinnati 20­17, Minnesota edged Detroit 26-24, Pittsburgh clobbered the New York 
Jets 38-10, Atlanta downcti '-;an Fran­cisco 34-17, St. Louis beat Wash':-g ton 40-30, San Diego deft. •tt·-,1 Kansas City 42-31, Chicago beat 
Tarripa Bay 28-17, Denver walloped Baltimore 28-10, Oakland defeated Seattle 20-10, Los Angeles downed Green Bay 35-23 and the New York Giants beat New Orleans 20-7. 
The Dallas Cowboys travel to New England for the NFL's Monday night game. 
Mike Pruitt, seeing spot duty with a hamstring pull, ran 12 yards for Cleveland's winning touchdown in the fourth quarter, and the Browns held on to beat the Bengals, who scored two touchdowns in the final period. Pruitt's scoring run gave the Browns, 1-2, a 20-10 lead. Cincin­nati, now 2-1, closed the gap to three points with 1:57 to play on a 1-yard touchdown plunge by fullback Pete 
Johnson. 
Rick Danmeier's 20-yard field goal with four seconds to play lifted Min­nesota, 1-2, over Detroit, 1-2. The game marked the return of Vikings quarterback Tommy Kramer, who injured his knee in an Aug. 27 preseason game. Kramer drove the Vikings 81 yards in the final two minutes to set up the winning kick. His drive included passes of 18 yards to Ted Brown and 18 and 13 yards to Sammy White. 
Frank Pollard, replacing the fumble-prone Sidney Thornton, rushed for two touchdowns, and quarterback Terry Bradshaw sneaked over for another TO that helped get the 1-2 Steelers on the winning track. The loss was the third in a row for theJets, who got into the end zone only once on a fourth­quarter, 17-yard scoring pass from backup QB Pat Ryan to Freeman NcNeil. 
Steve Bartkowski, wearing a flak jacket to protect some cracked ribs, threw three touchdown passes, and Tom Pridemore returned an inter­ception for l 0 I yards as undefeated Atlanta clobbered the l-2 49ers. The victory gave the Falcons a 3-0 record for the first time in the club's 16-year h .istory. Pridemore's interception came after the 49ers had driven to the Falcons' 6 with. the second-half kickoff. 
Jim Hart threw three touchdown passes, and rookie Stump Mitchell returned a punt SO yards for a TO to earn St. Louis its first victory of the season. Washington, 0-3, led 10-9 af­ter one quarter, but the Cardinals erupted for 17 points to take a26-17 halftime lead. Washington quarter­back Joe Theismann threw four 
touchdown passes, including a 79­
yarder to Art Monk. 

M E D c ,A. L s c 

Dan Fouts threw for three touch­downs, and Chuck Muncie ran for two more as San Diego, 3-0, out­lasted Kansas City, 2-1. San Diego led by just four points, 35-31, when Chargers linebacker Linden King deflected a Bill Kenney pass into the arms ofLeroyJones on the Chiefs 10. .Jones struggled a few yards, then lateraled to Gary Johnson, who scored the clinching touchdown. 
Vince Evans scored one touch­down and passed for another, pacing Chicago to its first win ofthe season. Rookie Jeff Fisher also returned a Tampa Bay punt 88 yards for a touchdown with 38 seconds left in the half, giving Chicago a 14-7 lead. Evans' scoring pass covered 18 yards to Dave Williams with 5:14 left in the game. 
Craig Morton threw for 291 yards and four touchdowns, three to wide receiver Steve Watson, as Denver, 1­2, clobbered Baltimore, 1-2. Morton, who entered the game with 24,875 career passing yards, became the 1Sth quarterback in NFL history to top the 25,000 plateau. Denver led "I'll take the high road, andyou take the low road . .."Irish safety 14-0 at halftime after a pair of Mor­Dave Duerson and middle linebacker Bob Crable converge on an ton scoring passes. unidentified Michigan ball carrierasjuniorspeedsterAnthony Car­
ter looks on. The Notre Dame secondary made most ofthe tackles in 
See NFL, page 9 


To 'Heater' 

Vida Blue adds 'knife pitch' 
ByJIM MURRAY 

Syndicated Columnist 
Ballplayers call it "Heat." "The Ace." "Flame." "No. 1." "The Express." "Fire." "The Prince of Pitches." "The High Hard One." It was all WalterJohnson had. It was all WalterJohnson needed. 
It was all Vida Rochelle Blue, Jr. had when he first came up to the big leagues. Like Johnson, he figured it was enough. So did the American League. 

H 0 0 L 

Take the money worries out of medical school with an Armed Forces Health Professions Scholarship. Full tuition. Books. Fees. Necessary equipment. A1ld $530 a month. 
Once selected for a Physician scholarship-available from the Army, Navy or Air Force -you are commissioned as a second i1eutenant or an ensign in the Reserve. Serve a 45-day active-duty period annually while in the program And agree to serve on active duty after gradLation. You will serve one year for each year of participation in the scholarship Pl'ogram (3-year minimum commitment). 
You receive excellent salary and benefits. More importantly, you get invaluable 
experi-rkiidliite-rlii -­
P!mme ;nformat;on mad fh;s coupon fo 
I ~ I
Armed Forces Scholarships, PO. Box C1776, Huntington Station, NY 11746 
Yes. I am interested in Armed Forces Health Professions Scholarship opportunities for physicians I understand there is no obligation. (OS) 
I ArmyO NavyO Air ForceD 
1111 
I 

Name___________________~~~~-----------------
SexOMOF 
(Piease Pr1nt)

Address.__________________________Apt._________ City________State_____Zip______Phone______ Enrolled att (School),_____
I I
... 
Lgrad-uatein:i: ~-----Degree-£:, =--­
-·--(Month.Year) ­
There never was a bette:: looking athlete on a pitcher's mound than Vida Blue. The fastball came in so quickly, it arrived scorched. And 30 I batters watched it go by his first year in the big leagues. He won the Cy Young, the MVP, 24 games, eight shutouts, and the Oakland A's were to get in five straight playoffs and three World Series with him. He not only saved the Oakland A's, he saved the American League. And every one ofthose years Vida pitched for them, Oakland drew more fans on the road than they did at home, sometimes twice as many. But to give you a real idea how good Vida Blue was, the Commissioner of baseball himself stepped in to block not one but two trades for him, because he said it would "throw baseball out of com-­petitive balance." 
The New York Yankees were offering everything west of the East River for him. The Cincinna.ti Reds made a stunning offer. The Commis­sioner blocked both deals but then -get this -OK'd a deal for the Reds to get Tom Seaver instead! 
Vida Blue was flattered. but vou can't eat flattery. So the Giants then got Vida for SEVEN players and a chunk of cash in sex -or seven ­figures. Reggie Jackson cracked. "The Giants got Vida for cash and a team to be named later." 

A lot of people thought Vida was making a mistake taking his one­pitch repertoire over to the dirty­uniform, stick-it-in-his-ear league which they . called the National. "They eat fastballs for breakfast over there in the National," they warned Vida. 
Vida had tinkered with a curve ball, but there was one thing wrong with it: it curved right out of the strike zone. One day Herm Starette, then a Giants coach, noticed Blue trying to break pitches on the sideline. What was breaking was the manager's heart. "Have you ever thought of trying a slider?" Starette 
•anted to know. "How do you grip tL. t?" Vida wanted to know. Starette (now a coach with the Phillies) showed him. And the National League was in as big trouble as the American had been. "I realize a slider is a hanrdous pitch," Vida Blue recalls now. three years since that day. "But it was comfortable for me. It has the characteristics of a fastball but it breaks and it can be thrown at different speeds." 
Old-time baseball men, notably the late Fresco Thompson. used to grumble that the slider was "the pitch that got Babe Ruth's record broken.'' Misthrown, it is a perfect 
See BLUE, page 7 

Witt Nttu turk Wtmts 
CA."'PUS SUBSCRIOTIONS TO THE NEW YORK TIMES 
are now available at a 30t discount rate from single copy newstana price. {Discount only for weekday paper). Newspapers are available an day of publication when classes are in session. Daily discount rate is 35¢. 
Delivery can be guaranteed for the first day of 4elivery on Sept. 21st only if payment is 
~i~;~~e~a~1 ~h~tb~~~m 1 ~~tion of this slip to: 
Hans Hoerdemann 402 Keenan Hall Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 
Dear Mr. Hoerdemann: 

Count me in for The New York Times! I will 
sul:lscribe 5_6__7__Sunday only__. 
Enclosed is my check for:______ 
Fall Term Ends Dec. 13th Full Year 
Mon-Fri $18.20 Mon-Fri $42.35 Mon-Sat $21.35 Mon-Sat $49.70 Mon-Sun $39.35 Mon-Sun $91.70 Sun only$18.00 Sun only$42. 00 
Papers will be delivered to dorms and faculty offices. There will be no delivery during ~xam week and holidays. 
Name._______________________________ 
Address_______________________________ 
Dept . ____________Phone.________________ 
~---------------­

The-oObset:veL=== 
T0 da~~=============M=on::;:d=a=y=,S=e=p=te=m=b=e=r=2=1=,=19=8=l==p=a=g=e=l:::;l 
Molarity 
ALOT OF PEOPLE 411'£ ~P~I"-k':! /F TI-l~ NE'vJ 
'NDHOUtJD' IS SDHETH/tJG, HOP,E TlfAN ATACK'(7?>P/AI'(Y 

Doonesbury 
Michael Molinelli 



33 Countryside 61 Embark 26 Calendar 
scene 62 Lively abbr. 37 Skin bump frolic 27 Adages 38 Culls 63 Kind of 28 Foregoing: 39 Stripling school: abbr. 
13 Excitement 40 Epstein's abbr. 29 Japanese 14 Field, to field 64 Volcanic aborigine 
Caesar 43 Fetch mountain 30 A Truman 15 Get along 45 Bluish-grey 65 Nicholas 31 Poker stake 17 Raw metals 46 Like winter or Peter 33 Brute 18 Talk wildly streets 66 Relaxation 34 "-which 19 Sprang 47 Greek poet 67 Arab boat is half a 20 Great work 50 "For-and truth ..." 
of art bells our DOWN 35 Breathe 23 Uncle: Sp. lives we 1 Small heavily 24 Great lake pay" particle 36 Nervous 25 Of a moun-51 Small bill 2 Pentateuch 38 Sharply 
tain range 52 Artist's 3 Lyrical outlined 27 Meager tablets poems 41 Hallucino­30 Writer Bret 58 Apportioned · 4 Placards gen 32 Comeup 60 "-Goriot" 5 Dreiser's 42 -of Paris 
"Sister-" 43 Tell all 6 Open­44 Rested mouthed 46 Plan 7 Son of 47 Legumes Jacob 48 Ineffective 8 Unencum­49 Comes close bered 50 Farm 9 Inborn sections 
traits 53 Sword 10 Grow old 54 Anatomical · 11 Rasp tissue 12 Reddish­55 Vow 
brown 56 Movie 16 English theater 
school in Europe 21 Gaelic 57 Cabbage 22 Playing and dish 
calling 59 Meadow 
Campus 
•4:30 
p.m. -french club meeting, upstairs dining room, s. dining hall, everyone is invited. 

•7:30 
p.m. -film, "monsieur verdoux", annen­berg aud., snite museum. 


Television Tonight 
7:00p.m. 16 Every Stray Dog and Kid 22 WKRP in Cincinnati 28 That's Incredible 34 Great Performances, "Vanessa" 46 Believers Voice ofVictory 
7:30p.m.  22  The Tim Conway Show  
8:00p.m.  16 22  Monday Night at Baby Makes Six" M-A-S-H  tht· Movies, "And  

28 ABC's Monday Night Football 46 Lester Sumrall Teaching Series 
8:30p.m. 22 House Calls 46 Blackwood Brothers 
9:00 p.m. 22 Lou Grant 34 Dexter Gordon in Concert 46 Today with Lester Sumrall 
10:00 p.m. 16 NewsCenter 16 22 22 Eyewitness News 34 The Dick Cavett Show 46 Jimmy Swaggart Weekly 
10:30 p.m. 16 Tonight Show 22 Quinq & Harry 0 34 Captioned ABC News 
11:00 p.m. 28 Newswatch 28 46 Praise the Lord 
11:30 p.m. 16 Tomorrow Coast to Coast 28 ABC News Nightline 
This Day in History 
Today's highlight in history: On Sept. 21, 1949, the People's Republic of China was proclaimed by its Communist leaders. 
On the same day, West Germany came into ex­istence as the U.S., British and French occupation zones were transferred to German control. 
On this date: in 1939, Romanian Premier Armand Calinescu was assassinated. In 1964, Malta became an independent state within the British Commonwealth. 
In 1969, more than I 20 people were killed in rioting in western India, which stemmed from al­leged Moslem abuse of cattle, whid1 the Hindus regard as sacred. 
And in 1978, Syria, Algeria, South Yemen, and Libya severed relations with Egypt because of that nation's accord with Israel. 
Ten years ago: the 26th General Assembly ofthe United Nations opened in New York, with In­donesia's Adam Malik as its presidt·nt. 
Five years ago: former Chilean foreign minister Orlando Letelier was killed when his car exploded in Washington, D.C. 
One year ago: with Democratic incumbent jim­my Carter absent in protest, Republican Ronald Reagan and lndependentjohn Anderson staged the presidential campaign's first debate. -AP. 

6{)11£ .5AY ITS ABURIA.L HoVNP 
GaXJM:NIN6. 7lXI4Y 7HE3 ~OFI(XR NEMJ eK5/.AN() 5!JfTl3 115/<E/1
j fiR CME/?I5CIC fta;J?AL ; Al{l 70 Hli-LP CXNTROI­• G/i!tii/N7/NFEST!fTD{S OF t 71ft MERICIIN PREPPY. 
' / 
Simon 
CITING THe 7Hfl.£AT CF (JJ4R­ANT!Nt FROir1 Nt16H80RING ST/!JC5, 7JI3 !VIR (i()VtmORS ANNOIJNCEIJ A JOINT~ 70 ctii1MTMUff IS 8l31NG 
RE6ARJJW AS A PAI<TiaJ/AR­1-Y VIRI.II£NTSTRAIN OF II/JY3P. 
/ 

I 11EI'lN, I :TC/ST 
1f£!'ll> REV€/.ATI0/1)5, AND IT 1[)1/'T A'IIR! 
? 


The Daily Crossword 
©1981 by Chicago Tribune-N.Y. News Synd. Inc. All Rights Reserved 
GCMRNOR. KING OF MA55A­CH/.15m5, f./JH05t 5TJIT{; 15 HARDii-5T Hrr; 8/AMW 7Hii­Nii-W RXfTICAL. CLIMATe IN WA5HIN5TON fVR 7Hii-Pfl{)­
UR31<AT/OV OF TH£5& 
PBKY E!LIT/575. 
f 


.... 
The <Jbsen.er== 
NEED MONEY? 
Deliver pape1 s 2 or 3 days a tJeek from 10:30 tlJ 1 
Cal/ To_m MtJfLennan, 283-8661 
Ctrculatton M r. 
•

'·Ihe Obser¥er WE NEED 
Late Night Work 
call Mike 
Paid Position 
r (If you~re responsible) at 8661-.., 

r~ 
r 
Monday, September 21, 1981-page 12 
Michigan too much for Irish 

By KELLY SULLIVAN 
Sports Writer 
ANN ARBOR, Mich. -Sometime between last Saturday and this Satur­day, Michigan remembered what a No. 1 football team was supposed to play like, and Notre Dame forgot. 

The Wolverines learned their les­son following a loss to Wisconsin. Coach Bo Schembechler drilled his team on fundamentals during practice this week, a week tailback Butch Woolfolk called "long, hard and very intense -if you'd have been on the sidelines, you would have backed up, the hitting was so hard." 
On Saturday, Michigan conducted a clinic in front of 105,888 fans and a national television audience on the basics domination in the trenches, ball control on offense, in­timidation on defense. When the les­son was over, Anthony Carter's demonstration on pass catching sent the fans home with their money's worth, while the rest of his teammates sent the Irish home to South Bend with a 25~ 7 defeat. 

"There's no excuse," confessed Notre Dame coach Gerry Faust. "Michigan played better football than we did today. They blocked better, they tackled better. They made us not look good." 
"I felt confident that if we played like Michigan, we could win based on what I knew of Notre Dame's team," offered a relieved Schem-

Faust suffers first college loss 
By KELLY SULLIVAN 
Sports Writer 
ANN ARBOR, Mich. -People have been curious about Gerry Faust since he arrived in South Bend. About how he would make the transition from high school coach­ing, about how he'd handle the 
pressure  at  the  collegiate  level,  
about how h e'd  succeed at  Notre  
Dame.  

And after Saturday's crushing 25-7 defeat, all America wanted to know how he would react after his first loss with the Irish. 
"Is this hard, Gerry?" asked one reporter. "It's not easy," Faust said softly, managing half a grin. 
He has emerged from the losing lockerroom so few times ( 16 in his 18 years as a coach) that people who knew him best could never predict how he'd take defeat. Linebacker Bob Crable was often asked what Faust was like after a loss. "I don't know," Crable would respond, "I've never seen him after he's lost." Crable's Moeller squads went 36-0 in his four years there. 
"I don't want the kids or the coaches to get their heads down about this. 
n 

A Faust coached team hasn't lost since 1978, when Princeton beat Moeller I 3-12. After that, he won 34 straight, including his first at Notre Dame. "That long streak doesn't make it any harder," he said Saturday in a quiet Irish dressing room. "It'd be just as hard to take if I hadn't lost in two or three games." 
Yet as difficult as it must have been for Faust to accept on the
.... 
inside, he handled himself as well as anyone could on the outside, offer-ring no excuses and taking most of the blame himself. 
"We didn't move the football, but maybe it was my play calling. Anytime the plays don't work, it's the play calling, right?" 
Faust was asked if he had second thoughts about rotating his quarter­backs. "I guess you would after you lose::," he stated. "It was a good idea last wee::k. When things go well, they're great ideas, and when they don't, they're lousy. I'm sure I'll get letters about it this week." 
And he shrugged off the idea that being No. 1 had anything to do with the outcome. "Michigan would have been ready for us anyway," he said. "They're a good team. I voted for them in the top three even after their loss to Wisconsin." 
"And we weren't overconfident," Faust continued. "I thought we looked good in practice this week. I felt we were ready. If we had gotten a couple of breaks, maybe the momentum would have helped us out." 
There was a lot of arm-chair coaching going on after the game. Why did the offense suddenly get so conservative? "It was still a close game," explained Faust. "I didn't want to gamble." Then why the fake field goal? "I thought it would go -I just thought it would work." 
Almost nothing Notre Dame did 
seemed to work, but the Irish coach 
didn't take his frustration out on his 
players. 
"It doesn't do any good to start 
yelling at them right now. The team 
is as sad as I am that they didn't per­
form well. But as long as we learn 
something from this loss, it's been 
worthwhile."· 
What really concerns Faust is 
whether his troops will bounce back 
from the shake-up. 
"I don't want the kids or the 
coaches to get their heads down 
about this," he noted. "We've got a real good football team. We just have to work harder." 
Faust, 1-1 in the college ranks, doesn't want to go through many more afternoons like Saturday. "My assistants told me there'd be days like this once in a while," he added. "I just hope they're right they'll only be once in a while." 
bechler. "I have great respect for the character of Michigan's teams and this one didn't let me down." 
It was obvious from the start that Michigan was a time bomb just waiting to go off. Showing the inten­sity and crispness they lacked in Wisconsin, the Wolves marched 71 yards up the field their very first pos­session. Though the drive came up empty on the scoreboard (a missed field goal from the 31 ), the emotion­al stage had been set. 
"We didn't get any points out of that first drive, but it proved to our team that we had the right stuff to win," said Schembechler. 
That "stuff' eventually came to­gether, and Michigan exploded for four touchdowns (a pair in the air, a pair on the ground). Notre Dame's stuff( including a fake field goal and a wingback option) did not. 
"That first (Michigan) touchdown was just dumb," offered Irish defensive coach Jim johnson, when Carter outran the coverage for a 71­yard reception. "We were in a zone two-deep. The free safety (Rod Bone) was responsible for him. But Stacey (Toran) knocked Carter out of bounds for a second and that's when Rod lost him. In college, you're allowed to come back in, and that's what Carter did." 
Faust acknowledged the impor­
tance of that early score. "Once 
Michigan got going, they outplayed 
us in every aspect." 
Explained linebacker Mark Zavag­nin: "We just let them get the momentum early and couldn't take it away from them. We thought we'd done that when we stopped them on that first drive, but we hadn't. They came out fired up and ready to play. We knew they'd be like that, but we couldn't do anything to stop it." 
The Michigan defense found plenty of ways to stop the Irish of­fense, however. Deep in its own ter­ritory for most of the game, Notre Dame managed just 213 net yards (only 70 on the ground) while their hosts racked up 407. 
"We just couldn't get on track ­today," remarked wingback Tony Hunter, who gained just 1 1 yards in 

seven tries, but caught five passes for 
72 yards. "Their defense changed a 
few things from what we expected, 
they gave us a few different looks. 
But it was nothing so significant that 
we couldn't have overcome it. Our 
biggest problem was just an overall 
lack ofexecution." 

Except for an effective drive in the first quarter and one in the fourth, there was practically no continuity on an offense that beared little resemblance to last week's motion machine. The Irish (who managed just one first down through second and third quarter play) averted a shutout only by posting a late fouth quarter score. In an unsuccessful attempt, Faust shuffled Tim Koegel ( IO of 22 for I 39 yards) and Blair Kiel ( 0 of two in the air) at quarter­back. "I don't know if that made any real difference or not," he said. ''I'll have to do some evaluating this week." 
"Until you look at the films, it's hard to tell if any one thing is slowing our offense down," Kiel stated. "You can't really blame it on the quarterback system yet. I credit Michigan's defense. They really stuck it to us." 
Koegel directed a 76 yard drive on Notre Dame's second series, but the Irish were stopped on four tries from the Michigan six yard line. Koegel was tripped up on third-and­goal, and a fake field goal pass from Dave Condeni to Hunter· didn't work. 
"We just made too many little mistakes," said Koegel, at the helm for I I of Notre Dame's 12 first downs. "I thought we were ready, but we just weren't playing as in­tensely as Michigan. We couldn't get rolling. And that's tough on the defense when they have to be out there all the time." Especially when the Michigan offense knew ex­actly what to expect. Schembechler reviewed Moeller films to help him prepare for Faust's alignments on both sides of the ball. 
"Our prep team showed us the way Notre Dame disguised their defensive coverages," explained 
See READY, page 9 

St. Louis lacks class in defeat 

The sport ofsoccer, for reasons that escape me at this time, has a history ofviolence that somehow adds a cer­tain character to the game~~quite unlike the element(s) associated with hockey, but character nonetheless. Riots, referee lynchings and civil wars have all made appearances at one time or another adding Latin and European color to the gentleman's game. 
And Notre Dame, that eternally "with it" institution ofhigher learning, probably felt pretty left out of things when it came to grassroots immaturity on the soccer field...that is, until the St. Louis University Billikens came to town and taught us all a lesson in how to lose like children. 
Last year, when the Billikens gave the Irish soccer team a clinic in soccer know-how (during a 6-1 pelting that wasn't as close as the score indicated), St. Louis couldn't have been more hospitable and sympathetic to the Notre Dame struggle for success on a national level. But things do change. 
In the madness that followed the Notre Dame soccer team's stunning 4-3 win over sixth-ranked St. Louis, the abuse dealt by a number of Billiken coaches, players, and fans--including physical threats and verbal taunts-­to referees Nerio Blasevitch and Laszlo Molnar for a briefmoment overshadowed the miracle that belonged to the Irish players and coaches. 
The frustration the Billikens were experiencing was 
no doubt unexpected, but St. Louis players had no one 
to blame but themselves for the result. The near-assault 
on the officials was totally unjustified. This was not the 
action of a team with a legendary soccer heritage that 
includes 22 straight NCAA playoff bids and ten national 
championships. 

While the skepticism will no doubt persist as to the 
circumstances of the Irish victory--a questionable 
awarding of a penalty kick to Notre Dame that became 
the game-winning goal--the fact is that coach Rich Hun­
ter's squad played St. Louis stride-for-stride all after­
noon. Notre Dame made their own breaks and deserved 
to win the game. 

The nationally-touted Billikens stunk the place out. 
Thev deserved to lose. 
"It's our fault we kept (Notre Dame) in the game," 
said john Hayes, SLll's All-America striker--one of the 
few Billikens to accept defeat gracefully. "They've im­
proved 100 percent since last year and that's a credit to 
them. Even when we went ahead they kept coming." 
The Irish performed, unquestionably, to their ul­
timate. They were patient and poised. They stuck to 
their game pian, and above all, they played to win. And 
all the right cards fell into place. 
Junior forward :vtario :vtanta gave the Irish an early 
boost of confidence with a goal three minutes into the 
game while the Billikens stood and watched. Twenty . minutes later, Manta made a gorgeous move between two Billiken fullbacks to set up a Rob Snyder goal. Notre Dame fell behind after goals on a questionable call by an official in the last minute of the first half and 
See BILLIKENS, page 7 







