Gogol--page 6 

WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 18, 1981
VOL XVI, NO. 61 an independent srudenr newspaper serving nmre dame and saint mary's 
Missile reduction 

Reagan readies arms speech 
WASHINGTON ( AP)-President Uctsm in U.S. arms control circles Leonid I. Brezhnev if the Reagan is ready to propose to the that such an approach will prove ac­"neccessary ground work is laid" Soviet Union that both superpowers ceptable to the Soviet Union, which and there are indications that a sum­virtually eliminate nudear missiles is believed highly reluctant to mit would prove "fruitful and from the European theater, State destroy new weapons such as the SS-productive and yield results." I>t:panment officials said yesterday. 20, capable ofcarrying three nuclear There are no indications Reagan 
The president, it was said, will use warheads. will announce such a meeting in his a foreign policy spcech today at the A more limited, fall-back position speech. despite statements from National Press Club to embrace the is said to include an attempt to win West German Chancellor Helmut ~ocalled "zero-option" approach as Soviet acceptance of the planned Schmidt that he hopes to get the two the goal for Soviet-American deployment of 572 American leaders together to cl~ar the air on negotiations on restraining nuclear nuclear warheads on Pershing II arms control and nuclear issues. forces in Europe. Those talks open missiles in exchange for the removal Brezhnev and Schmidt meet in Nov. 30 in Geneva. of more than 900 Soviet warheads Bonn for a series of meetings begin· 
The option consists of an ex­now in place on SS-20, SS-5 and SS-4 ning Friday. U.S. officials have said 
pected U.S. offer not to undertake missiles. That would be a shift in they expect a summit would take the planned deploymen of new U.S. force levels aimed at producing a plan· .;;omt'timc in I 9R2. medium-range missiles in Europe if relative nuclear balance in Europe. The U.S. at the moment has no the Soviet Union agrees to disas­On a related subject, State Depart· medium-range missiles in the semble its own missiles, stationed in ment spokesman Dean Fischer said European theater, but does have 
western Russia, aimed at European the United States remains interested short-range tactical nuclear targ<.·ts. in a possible summit meeting be­weapons such as Pershing I and However, there is deep skep· tween Reagan and Soviet President Lance missiles. 
The Soviet Union already ha<> deployed substantial numbers ofSS-
Soviet economy falls 
20 missiles. The United States is not supposed to deploy its medium­range missiles in Europe until late 1983. The Soviets contend that other European-based U.S. weapons. 
MOSCOW (AP)-Production fell cent during the five-year plan. Last including those on aircraft and sub­short of goals this year in March, it was projected at 12 to 15 marines, should be subject to agriculture, coal, iron and steel, the percent. negotiations. S<.>Viet Union's chiefeconomic plan· The experts said the reduction ncr reported yesterday. He indi· meant the Soviets would be putting The zero-basing option is inneas­cated the Soviet Union would aim off construction projects and spec­ingly advocated in Europe, especial­for tht· low end of its overall targets ulated that money saved from can­ly in West Germany, where there is in the current five-year plan, which cellation of the work would be used mounting official concern over the ends in 1985. to help meet consumer needs, or be scope and impact of the European 
Nikolai Baibakov told delegates to given to the military. peace movement. the Soviet Parliament that "it was Soviet Finance Minister Vasily not possible to fulfill the ( I 981 ) Garbuzov told the 1,500 delegates plan" in those areas, but did not yesterday that Soviet defense spend­'Duchess ofdietitians specify how wide the gap was in any ing in 1982 will be unchanged from ofthe four areas. 1981. 
Presiet Leonid I. Brezhnev told Western experts, however, said 

short of 1981 goals 
Cagan feeds NYC students
the Supreme Soviet on Monday that Brezhnev hinted Monday night at an the economic planners were to increase in military spending when 
ByJERRY SCHWARTZ children, but she worries.
blame for a "pour crop year," and he cited the "complicated" interna­Associated Press "Many families which have three, four or fivefood remained the nation's central tional situation as one factor con­children will decide that it is too much ofan outlay, and problem. tributing to the sluggishness of the NEW YORK (AP) -Elizabeth Cagan, czarina of turn to bag lunches. We hope that they won't drop
Of particular note in Baibakov's Soviet economy. school cafeterias, duchess of dietitians, marchesa of eating lunch altogether," she said.
speech, Western experts said, was "Our defense needs are being milk canons, was disturbed. Her young subjects had However, she says proposed federal guidelines ­
the announcement that capital in­dependably ensured," Brezhnev said cleaned every plate. now withdrawn -to reduce the amount offood served
vestment during the five-year period See GOAL, page 4 "Have we given you enough? Are you still hungry?" to elementary students, would have prevented waste,
was projected to grow by 10.4 per-asked the woman who, as head of the New York City especially by cutting the milk serving from 8 to 6 




school lunch program, serves 520,000 lunches and ounces. 
110,000 breakfusts each day at 1,200 sites -more out· "From noon to one, the sewers in this country run 
lets than Howard johnson's. white," she says. "What some of these so-called experts 
Her staff, standing nearby as Mrs. Cagan talked to stu· don't understand is that unless a kid ingests what is on 
dents during this recent visit to a school lunchroom, his tray, it's not nutritious." 
Panel discusses alcohol 
groaned. Mrs. Cagan wants to make sure her meals are eaten. "You know, Students who don't want, say, mashed potatoes, need
problem at ND tonight 
there's no pleas­WEDNESDAYJIJJJ only take a "taster" portion. Then, if they want more,
ByRANDALLGOSKO~CZ 
ing you," said they can have it. one staffer. "If In several schools, Mrs. Cagan has established 
News Staff 
~~
*~HliFOCUS
they eat every· "energy fuctories" where hamburgers, pizza, french Notre Dame tonight at Flanner Hall from 7 to 9 p.m. 
There will be an open forum on the question of alcohol use at 
thing on their fries, milkshakes and ice cream are available, along with This forum. which will feature a number of speakers, has been 

plates, you want salad bars and traditional lunches. formed in response to questions that have been raised by the Hall 
to give them more. If they leave food on their plates, The difference is that the rolls and pizza are made President's Council, PACE, students, faculty, the administration, and 
you ask them what's wrong." with unbleached flour, the meat is lean. the french fries The Obsen,er regarding alcohol use on campus. 
Mrs. Cagan admits that she is not easily satisfied. At arc vitamin enriched and low on greao;e, the milkshakes The forum will consider whether there is an alcohol problem at 
age 62, after 40 years as a teacher and administrator in use only milk, not fillers, and the ice cream is made to Notre Dame, whether Notre Dame can deal with that problem, and 
the nation's largest public school system, she hao; carved Mrs. Cagan's specifications, with reduced sugar. whether Notre Dame will he able to equip its staff. graduates, and 
out a reputation as a hard-working, ebullient innovator. No unnecessary additives or colorings arc used. And fa(·ulty with the information necessary to deal with alcoholism in 
In 1977, a federal report criticized the city's school the machines that dispense real junk foods -the sockty. 
food program as wasteful and the food itself as un­cupcai{es, candy and soda -have been banned in the ~embers ofthe panc.:l at tonight's forum include Daivd Link. Dean 
nutritious and unappetizing. Mr~ Cagan, in the four schools since 1979, fur teachers and students alike. of tht· Law School, and member of PACE; Pro( Walter Davis, of the 
years since she has been director of food services, is Mrs. Cagan also has been a leader in the use ofsurplus English tkpartrm·nt; Lt. Cmdr. Richard Horstman, University 
credited with turning a losing program into a winner. foods and other commodities donated by the: fedcral :-.IROTC Instructor. who is t:xpc.:ricnced in the Navy's alcohol 
On a budget of S I 34 million, she oversees 9,500 food government. programs and community programs; Terry Alley, an ND graduate 
service employees, including 37 field superintendents In the pursuit of nutrition, Mrs. Cagan will take ad· and local physician who is an expert on the medical aspects of al­
responsible for local operations. vantage of anything including the students coholism; flanner Hall President Lloyd A. Burke:, Jr.; and Peggy 
And Mrs. Cagan has held down the price of a sehoul themelves. Cronin, alcohol and drug counsc.:lor. 
lunch, which ranges from 60 to 75 cents. Every school in the city has established student nutri­The program has been organized to include a <; to 10 minute 
However, under the federal lunch program, nine out tion committees which draw up menus each month, speech by each speaker except Dr. Alley, who will be on hand to 
of I 0 students pay nothing, and 5 percent pay only 20 eliminating unpopular foods. Films and posters exhort address questions of medical concern. 
cents. That program is being cut, and income require· students to take a hand in their own diets. After the speeches the floor will be opened to the audience for 
ments for the free lunches are being tightened. Mrs. 
See CAGAN, page 4 

Cagan does not know exactly how this will affect heropen discussion. 



News Brie s 
By The Observer and The Associated Press 
Soviet automotive officials have confirmed that a labor dispute occurred in 1980 at the country's largest car plant, in Togliatti, U.S.S.R, but insisted that wokers' complaints were resolved without strikes. Western news reports, quoting unofficial Soviet sources, had said in June 1980 that major strikes disrupted production at the Togliatti plant and nearby Gorky plant in late April or early May. Earlier this week factory officials told Western cor­respondents touring the Togliatti factory that a group of spray­painters held on-the-job "discussions" about their working conditions on the assembly line. Stressing health hazards oftheir job, the workers sought to have their retirement age reduced five years to 45, the pension age for workers in the Soviet chemical industry, the plant officials said. Normal (etirement age for Soviet workers is 60 for men and 55 for women. Instead of lowering the retirement age, plant officials agreed to reduce the time the workers spend inside dust-free rooms applying paint to the car bodies. -AP 
An East German research institute is developing a "memory pill" to help children with learning dis­abilities, the official East Berlin news agency ADN said yesterday. The Institute for Neurobiology and Brain Research at the East Ger­man Academy ofSciences in Magdeburg has worked on the pill for some time, the report said. It quoted Professor Hansjuergen Matthis, the institute's director, as saying transmission from short-term to long-term memory is among the most disturbed functions of the human brain. "This process is supposed to be positively influenced by the new drug," the report said. Though chiefly developed to assist children, the report said, the pill will also have a positive effect on elderly persons. -AP 
Aman chargedwith shootinghis 72-year-old bedridden brother five times in an alleged mercy killing at a nursing home has been released on SIO,OOO bond. Jim Collums, 72, who doctors said was afflicted with a debilitating nervous disease, was shot in the chest and abdomen with a .38-caliber revolver at the Oak Hills Care Center in San Antonio, Tex. on Monday, police said. Nurses told police they found Woodrow Collums, 69, sitting in a chair beside his dead brother. As police led Collums from the scene, he told reporters, "He suffered enough. That's all I can say. He suf­fered enough." -AP 
A California man who threatened to blow up an Atlantic City casino hotel unless he was given $50,000 has been sentenced to five years in prison. William Vincent Spencer, 47, of Kings Beach, Calif., admitted to Superior CourtJudge Paul R Porreca on Monday that he telephoned several bomb threats to Caesars Boardwalk Regency casino hotel on Aug. 22. Attorney Barry Cooper said Spencer had lost more than $350 gambling in the casino and was drinking heavily at the. time ofthe incident. -AP 
-The Budd Co., OfTroy, Mich., plans to market an ultra­high speed passenger train powered by a new magnetic propulsion system at up to 250 mph, the company says. "Magnetic levitation is a totally new propulsion system that will enable cities to make a quan­tum jump beyond conventional means of intercity rail and road travel," Rene Vansteenkiste, president of Budd's Transit Group, said 
,Monday in a statement. The system has been under development for over a decade by Thyssen Henschel, Budd's sister company in West Germany, wh~re the first such train was approved for passenger service in 1979. -AP 
Prince Charles, touring a factory that produces medical aids including corsets,told workers yesterday he thought he'd soon need a corset himself because "My wife keeps saying I'm too thin. She keeps trying to feed me up." Princess Diana, his wife of 3 months who is expecting a child next June, withdrew from the tour of this northwest England city because she is suffering from morning sickness. -AP 
New York honored its own Yankee Doodle Dandy yesterday by presenting James Cagney with the key to the city. In a ceremony at Manhattan's Carlyle Hotel, Mayor Edward I. Koch told Cagney, "This key opens no doors. It is the key to the hearts of7 million people." Cagney, looking dapper in a blue blazer, white shirt and red tie, had tears in his eyes when the mayor gave him the key, and he thanked Koch in a soft voice. "I'm at that age where I cryeasily," the 82-year-old Cagney said. The mayor also gave Cagney a picture ofEdwin Booth, a 19th century actor. -AP 
A teen-age son of the late Shah ofIran began studies at Mount Greylock Regional High School, a public school, as a "normal" sophomore. School Superintendent Robert Weiser called Ali Pahlavi's enrollment "a compliment to public education." Pah­lavi, 16, will study world culture, honors algebra and honors chemistry, and will study French if an advanced level is offered, school officials said. No special security is planned, according to Edward Filiault, director ofstudent affairs at the school. Pahlavi will live at a family mansion that was bought in 1979 by his older brother, Reza, when he was a student at nearby Williams College, Filiault said. 
-AP 

Increasing CloudineSS and mild today. High in the mid to upper 50s. Tonight cloudy with a chance of showers. Mild with the low in the low to mid 40s. Showers likely tomorrow and cooler with the high in the upper 40s to low 50s. The chance ofrain is 30 percent fonight. -AP 

HOWENDEAD: 
Actor William Holden, who was found dead Monday, is shown in this file photo infrontoftbe main gate of Hollywood's Paramount Studios. 
PROTEST AGAINST VIOLENCE: 
Several hundred women who are members of the Women's Pentagon Action-De, take part in a march Monday in Washington to protest the increase ofallforms ofviolence. The group is shown beading for the Pen­tagon, where they held a rally yester­day. 

r-The_Ohserxer_ Design Editor ....................... Monica Gugle Design Assistants ....................... Tim Neely Layout Staff................................ Mary Shilts Typesetters ....................................... AI Novas Bruce Oakley News Editor ........................Tim Vercellotti CopyEditors.................. Maureen O'Toole Paula Groves Features Layout .............. Gregory Swiercz Sports Copy Editors ........ Michael Ortman Chris Needles Typist ...................................... Jeanine Hynes Systems Control ................... Bruce Oakley ND Day Editor ........... Paul Roper McGinn Ad Design.................... Fran & Bob & Mary Photographer ....................... Rachel Blount Guest Appearances ..............TheM Squad: Macor, Max, Monk, McGinn, Murphy, Moooo Laura "Just Learning .. Degnan Usa 'Birthday Girl' Bontempo Dave 'Where's my coat' Dziedzic  
The Observer (USPS 598 920) 1s published Monday through Fnday and on home football Saturdays. except dunng exam and vacation penods. The Observer IS published by the students of Notre Dame and Sa1nt Marys Col­lege. SubscnpiiOns may be purchased tor $25 per year ($15 per semester) by wntlng The Observer. P.O. Box Q. Notre Dame. lnd1ana 46556 The Observer IS a member of The Associated Press All reproduction nghts are reserved Second class postage pa1d at Notre Dame. lnd1ana 46556  

Wednesday, November 18, 1981 -page ' 


SUPREME SOVIET CONVENES: 
President Leonid Brezbnev, lower right, and other Soviet leaders attend the opening ses­sion ofthe Supreme Soviet yes­terday in Moscow. 

Zahm Hall_Thanx 
··································~··········· 
''WHEN MOVIES WERE MOVIES'' 

·•·••·······························••········ 

The Party ofthe Year on This Campus 
Chairm~n-M ike SnJder and: John Buhn, Kevin Kearney 
section leaders-lA-Bian Gorgy 
11-Pete(fire it up)latacan lA-tloe Giglia 
11-Marty Sairing 
lA-Mike Snyder It Mike Hanifan 

11-Jeff Mihalik 4A-John Kellenberg 41-lob Johnson 

;" 
The Observer Wednesday, November 18, 1981 -pag~ ,:. 


At HPC meeting 




Lawler speaks on Country Jam 
By ROGERWILK.E 
NewsStaff · 
Student Union Director Bill 
Lawler spoke about the upcoming 
Country Rock jam at last night's Hall 
President's Council meeting. 
Lawler stressed that student par­
ticipation is needed at this annual 
event, which is s<:heduled to begin 
Friday at 8 p.m. in Stepan Center. If 
the Jam isn't a success. there will bt• no more social events in Stepan in the future, according to Lawler. 
Lawler add~ that there will be a "hall group discount" for the Country Rock jam. A hall can pur­chase 50 tickets for 5200 and sell them to its residents at a discount to the student of one dollar per ticket. The price of a ticket normally is 1!5 in advance and S6 at the door. 
Th.t: HPC meeting continued with a discussion on Mardi Gras. Andy 

Reagan arranges sale of satellites to Arabs 
WASHINGTON ( AP) -After one retreat, the Reagan administration is forging aht·ad with the proposed sale of communications satellite gt·ar to an Arab consortium that in­dudes Libya and the Palestine Liberation Organization. 
Sources told The Associated Press that the proposal, which could stir another fight with Congress on the heels of the $8.5-billion arms sale to Saudi Arabia, is being revived even though some senators object w delivering the sophisticated equip· ment to a group whose membership involves hostile clements. 
Informal discussions were set at a secret session with key Senate staff aitles, to be attendee: also by representatives of the Ford Motor Co.. whose Palo Alto, Calif., sub­sidiary would produce key com­ponents of the communications system. The gear would be as­sembled by a French government· owned company, with the necessary satellites launched into orbit by the ~.S. space agency. 
The administration's move could trigger the kind ofscrap that accom­panied the sale ofAirborne Warning and Control System radar planes and other modern weaponry to Saudi Arabia last month. President Reagan narrowly won that battle in the Senate. 
The U.S. share of the satellite and 
communications gear would total 
about $79 million of the overall 
Frcnl·h contract for about S I SO mil­
lion. It would involve two working 
satellites launched by the National 
Aeronautics and Space Administra­tion in the mid 1980s. 
The subcontract deal for the Ford Aerospact:. and Communications Corp. was sidetracked two weeks ago when the State Department conceded it was not prepared to answer congressional concerns about potential military application. 


President tours war rooms in Pentagon 
WASHINGTON (AP)-Two days after flying on the military's "Doomsday" President Reagan toured yesterday the Pentagon's top-secret war rooms, where defense officials direct U.S. forces worldwide during crisis. 
Reagan's visit -on the eve of making a major policy speech on medium-range nuclear missJies in Europe -was descibed as a logical followup to his_ flight Sunday on the massive Air Force 747 jet that would serve as a flying commaQd post for the president during nuclear war. 
Reagan conferred over lunch at the Defense Department with the Joint Chiefs of Staff, the secretaries of the military services and Defense Secretary Caspar Weinberger. 
Then, Gen. David C. Jones, chair­man of the joint chiefs, led the tour of the war rooms, briefing the presi­dent as they went. 
The facility -officially known as the National Military Command Center -actually is a two-story 



Cathoi ic Inquiry Series 
90 minutes of your time could change your perspective on Catholicism. 
Wednesday 7-8=30pm Hayes-Healy 
an 
campus
miniStry
November18 
"Catholicism, the earthy religion" Fr. John Melloh, SM 
Schafer and Jim Stork are organizing activities for the celebration. Be­cause of Bishop McManus' ban on gambling, Schafer and Stork are plan­ning a new format for the event. En­tertainment, food, games and a Daoce-a-thon will be just a part of this charity event scheduled for February. 
The HPC continued its discussion of past weeks on a potentia! keg policy. Their proposal will go to the Student Senate on Monday night and must pass there to be considered by th'e administration. The proposal is based on the idea that students can responsibly usc kegs and em­phasizes that the rectors of the halls retain control ofthe policy. 
The meeting finished with a dis­cussion on the failure of the present escort service. Student Body Vice­President Tara Kenney asked for the support of hall presidents regarding the service. She also stated that crime is presently on the rise at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. 
complex of rooms deep in the Pen­tagon that is the nerve center for top defense officials in emergencies. 
The 77,000-square-foot facility is packed with ·computers and the latest in communications and in­formation processing equipment. 
Reagan used the equipment to speak to all major U.S. commands around the world -a practice known as a call-in ofcommand duty officers. 
"He expressed his appreciation for the job they're doing," said Mark Weinberg, a White House assistant press spokesman. "He was impressed with the communication system available and particularly with the hookup with the military command structure." 


A iresh approach to good iood.'M S2!i8S US Jl North South Bend. 272-S47!i (;Continental Restaurant System~. llJXI 






The Observer 
Mike Murphy ofPangborn Hall offers a piece of pizza to a Lyons resident at the Pangborn-Lyons pizza party Tuesday evening. There was a large 

R 0 ~ 

TOUCH BASES ON BATS,




BALLS,AND BEER.· 


BOOG POWELL (Former American smaller over there. BOOG: Tastes great? That's why I Baseball Great): Koichi here has KOICHI:-::> 1 'J, Y 3 -~ "t:·-,J, ~ t1J drink it, too! I guess we have a lot been giving me a new angle on ~8$A~~~~*b~~~~~!o more in common than I thought. baseball. It seems the game's a BOOG: Well, now that you men­KOICHI: :t ~:i! 'J ! c··? "(··~, 8$ little different in Japan. tioned it, I guess you guys are ~lfi*-T-.l>.t:.A. lJ 1 t!:lvb'o KOICHI NUMAZAWA (Former kinda smaller. Does that mean BOOG: Me? I'm too big to play on Japanese Baseball Great): you drink Lite Beer 'cause it's less a Japanese team. :t ? , fJIJ;Uf 7 -< -Jt.-I'·IJ~·,J, ~ t1J filling? KOICHI: :t 1v t~ .:. t t~ L' T~!, Y T~no KOICHI: L' "?> =-, t-; L' L L' IJ' &? ~ t..· 3 -~ t::ft)OO-r·~! 0 BOOG: That's right. The field is ~"(··~!a BOOG: Shortstop?! Very funny. 

Wednesday, November 18, 1981 -pag{:, 
Senate redrafts bill under veto threat 
WASHINGTON (AP) The Senate Appropriations Committee, working under a very strong veto threat from the White House, began yesterday to redraft a massive, House-passed money bill to keep the federal government in business after midnight Friday. 
Even before the panel began its work, sources said the White House relayed word that President Reagan was likely to veto the measure un­less it contained a 5 percent across­the-board spending cut. There 
appeared little chance Congress would meet those terms, officials agreed. 
But at the same time, both sides were equally agreed that Reagan had the strength to sustain a veto. Chair­man Mark Hatfield, R-Ore., of the Senate panel said if that occurs, Congress "will have to stay in ses­sion ... around the clock" rather than taking its scheduled Thanksgiving recess late this week. 
The White House said the dis­agreement was over budget cuts, largelystalled since Reagan unveiled a new austerity plan in September. 
But Republican and Democats 
alike in Congress said Reagan also 
hoped to use the situation to regain 
the initiative in fighting for his em­
battled economic program. 
"It makes him look like a macho 
man, I guess," said House 
Democratic Leaderjames Wright, D­
Texas. 
"They just want to veto a bill," said one Republican official, asking not to be quoted by name. 
The measure is necessary because Congress has not yet completed ac­tion on any of the 12 regular ap­propriations bills that fund the executive branch departments or the judiciary. An existing interim measure expires Friday at midnight. 
The House rejected a proposed 5 percent cut when it passed its own $440-billion version of the bill on Monday. 
Officials said the 5 percent cut wasn't likely to succeed in the GOP­controlled Senate, either. 
• • • Cagan 
continuedfrom page 1 
At the Central Park East School, meals are served family style. Fifth and sixth grade students feed young­er children, setting up tables, serv­ing the food and cleaning up afterward, saving untouched milk and fruit for snacks in the afternoon. 
"It works out well," said Mark Lutsky, assistant director ofthe CPE lunch program. "It gives them a sense of responsibility -you don't get nothing for nothing, and if you want to eat you have to help clean up." 
"Instead of crowding up and pus­hing and shoving, it's nice to sit down and be served," said Danielle Hernandez, 12; a sixth grader, as she munched on a baloney-and-cheese hero sandwich during a recent lunch hour. 
The school newspaper, the CPE news, devoted much of its first fall issue to a look at the school lunch program, and to criticism of Reagan budget cuts in that area. One stu­dent, Monifa Edmondson, wrote that the lunchroom "has very few problems and there are some good things about it, too." 
But she's not sold on the cooks. "They just don't care. I imagine all sorts of things happening to the food," she said. "They sometimes act mean and even grouchy. Those are my opinions." 
• • • Goal 
continuedfrom page 1 
during his speech to the Communist Party Central Committee. Brezhnev, Soviet Premier Nikolai 
A. Tikhono"v and other Sovietleaders were on hand for the opening ofthe Supreme Soviet meeting in the Kremlin yesterday. 
The 74-year-old Brezhnev, who leaves Sunday for a summit meeting in West Germany, did not attend the afternoon session. Absent from both sessions was Moscow Communist Party boss Viktor Grishin. who is 
'rl to be ill. 

Wednesday, November 18, 1981-page.:;

Editorials 
America and "The Trojan Horse" 

Well, well, well. The biggest non- massive political and credibility  
secret of the year has been divulged.  problems with much of his natural  
"It's kind of hard to sell 'trickle  constituency. And, as Democrats can  
down,' so the ·supply side' formula  be expected to make "Trojan Horse"  
was the only way to get a tax policy  part of the national vocabulary,  
that was really 'trickle down' ... it  Republicans will lose much of the  
(supply side) was always a Trojan  working class support that came to  
Horse.'' This is nothing that hasn't  them out ofeconomic desperation.  
been said repeatedly in the past the  Those groups are beginning to feel  
year. Only thing is, it's always been  the burn of the "Trojan Horse." One  
said by liberal columnists. And  of the favorite lines of the budget  
David Stockman is detinitely not a  slashers is that the states will take up  
liberal columnist.  the slack of the federal cuts. In the  
It would be easy, and in some  name of "getting the federal govern- 
cases appropriate, for Democrats to  ment off our backs,'' Reagan claims  
gloat over the statements made by  to be returning fiscal responsibility to  
OMB director Stockman in the  the states, a responsibility the states  
December issue ofAtlantic Monthly.  to not seem inclined to accept.  
These 'admissions' vindicate the  In a recent Congressional study, it  
charges against the Reagan Ad- was revealed that states, in reaction  
ministration and its economic  to the federal cutbacks are making  
policies, criticisms that have often  cutbacks of their own. This year, 19  
been characterized as unfair and un­ states increased Aid to Dependent  
founded by conservatives.  Children welfare benefits, 26 kept  
But even though Democrats and  the benefits the same, and 5  
liberals can well use the leverage and  decreased benefits. Several more are  
shot in the arm that Stockman's  expected to reduce benefits in the  
revelations will give them, they  next few months. Of the states that  
should also remember the actual cf- did increase benefits, only 3 in­ 
fects of the '"Trojan Horse" policies,  creased them enough to keep pace  
and the people that arc being affected  with intlation. These benefits were  
by them. In some ways, the most  substinence level to begin with, so it  
disgusting aspect of thts whole  is not like the states are cutting fat.  
episode is that while it has been no  They are hurting those that can least  
secret that the poor and the middle  afford to be hurt.  
class were going to bear the burdens  Consider Texas. This state, one of  
(and the risks) of the Reagan  the richest in the nation (and one that  
·program,' these burdens were based  prides itself on its wealth) has in the  
on pure speculation.  last ten years cut benetits 21 percent,  
Listen to Stockman: "We didn't  while the consumer price index has  
think it all the way through... we  risen 135 percent! In 1970, Texas  
didn't add up all the numbers... You  gave $179 dollars a month; in 1981,  
just start making snap judgments.''  Texas gives $141 a month.  
The problem with all of this is that  The middle class has been vic­ 
those numbers and snap judgments  timized also. A prime example of the  
were often real people with real  burdens being imposed by  
problems, people that were least  'Reaganomics' can be found in the  
equipped to handle anymore  "Chicago mass transit situation. 18  
hardship. These people are being in  months ago, a commuter could ride  
effect sacrificed for a theory (in the  from Geneva, a suburb about 40  
strongest sense of the word) that will  miles west of Chicago, to the Loop  
not work anyway.  for $1. 90. Now, due to lost subsidies  
It is becoming increasingly clear  and intransigence on the part of  
that there is no way that Reagan can  Downstate Republican state legis­ 
balance the budget by 1984, or  lators, it costs commuters $6.00 to  
anytime soon after that. This would  make the same trip. At that price, it is  
not normally be that big of an issue,  often more economical to drive into  
and could be managed (even William  the city, which in turn causes  
Buckley has proposed ways of  massive congestion in the Loop.  
dealing with the deficit), but Reagan  The raised fares are only the first  
has hinged the success of the  problem facing Chicago area resi­ 
economy on ·a balanced budget, and  dents. The system cannot probably  
with Wall Street having taken the  bear anymore price increases, so  
bait, the economy will not make any  taxes (gas, cigarette, liquor, or basic  
substanstial improvements. (Though  tax) will be increased anyway, and  
there will probably be a slight  Chicagoans will be faced with both  
momentary improvement next fall  higher fares and higher taxes.  
right before next year's elections as a  That is how the Reagan economic  
result of the summer tax cuts.) The  program is going to hurt the middle  
only possible avenue would be to  class. The average guy will bring  
make deep cuts in the Defense  home seven to ten dollars more a  
budget, which would cause Reagan  week (which will be more than eaten  

I================ by inflation) from the federal govern­
Erratum 
On Friday, Nov. 13, an optnton column appeared without a byline on the Editorial page. This was due to a technical oversight on the part of our staff. The column, titled "Why the Fast?", was written by Jenny Deh­ner, a student at Saint Mary's. The 
Observer  apologizes  for  any  dif­ 
ficulty  or  embarrassment  this  may  
have caused Ms. Dehner.  


THE INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S FOUNDED NOV. 3, ~~ 
ment. The programs and benefits that are cut by the federal government will have to be supported through lo­cal and state taxes, which will be in­creased, and the average taxpayer will end up with an even larger tax burden. 
But that seems to be Reagan's plan. As Stockman said, "Do you realize the greed that came to the forefront? The hogs were really feeding. The greed level.. .just got out of control." Massive tax reduc­tions for oil companies and real estate concerns, continued industrial and 

agricultural subsidies, and an in­(implying that they were lazy and crease in pork barrel grants to buy avoiding work, a favorite votes. All at the expense of the poor, Reagan/conservative characteriza­working and middle classes. tion), and he said that any interested Another example of this greed, in work could call his office for help. 
and the arrogance that comes with it, Of course, the governor was deluged is Arkansas' Republican governor with calls, and his own employment Frank White. On a radio call-in office rebuked him for thinking that program, while defending a 24 per­unskilled welfare recipients could cent reduction in Arkansas ADC compete with the rest of the state's benefits, White said that 97 percent unemployed. of the welfare recipients in Arkansas But that's about par for the course. 
could find work if they wanted, There's an old saying, "Beware of 

Outside Wednesday·. 
Greeks bearing gifts;" the tax cut, and all that comes with it, has long been a dubious gift, regardless of what Ronald Reagan says. The ques­tion is, how long will it take the country to recover from the damage? 
AVISIT TO THE WOODSHED 


The emperor has no clothes 
John Kennedy once said that the 
worse President Eisenhower did, the 
more people liked him. That was not really true of Eisenhower, but it seems to be the rule for Reagan. This emperor can make people con­centrate so raptly on his smile that no one notices he has, intellectually, no clothes on. The evidence of in­coherence and incompetence piles up, largely unnoticed. In his latest press conference we were treated to 
the following Reaganisms: 
I. The president said he would not repeat what he told editors about theater nuclear weapons. Then he repeated it. 
2. 
This time, though, he men­tioned the possibility of limited nuclear war and added that he is "optimistic" -presumably about its not spreading. 

3. 
Asked about demonstration nuclear explosions, Reagan managed to say he was ignorant on this subject and, nonetheless, to add a fourth government position to the confu­ston. Secretary Haig, you will remember, said that such a demonstration was still being con­sidered. Sectretary Weinberger said it was not. The White House 


"clarified" that the demonstration once was considered, but is no lon­ger. Reagan differed from all three by saying, "Well, that, there ·seems to be some confusion as the whether that is still a part of NATO's strategy or not. And so far, I've had no answer to that." Which means the White House statement should not be trusted, according to the highest White House official. 
4. Th president excused his ig­~nce by saymg, .. I have nott-been 

Executive News Editor.........................Kelli Fllru. Sports Editor ..............................Michael Onman News Editor ..................................Tim Vercellolli Editorials Editor.......................Anthony Wal10n News Editor.............................David Rickabaugh 
Photo Editor........................................John Macor 
a party to the contigency planning of NATO that has gone on now for ap­proximately 30 years." By that logic, he can have no opinion on any­thing the government did before he took office. 
5. 
He referred to two hopeful points in the Saudi peace plan ­which proved to be the same point. 

6. 
He told one of his campaign­type stories about the evil of "regulations" that keep a Medicaid patient in the hospital when she could be cared for less expensively at home. He did not reflect, obviously, on the fact that provison for having care at home as well as in hospitals would increase regulations, not decrease them. (How do you decide who should be treated where, and when?) 

7. 
When a reporter tried to move from the campaign anecdote to the specifics of the Reagan administra­tion's Medicaid proposals, Reagan had to admit he did not know what those proposals are. 

8. 
Not only did Reagan not know the specifics of the proposals of his own secretary of health and human services. When asked how he felt about them in general, he had to give this lame answer: " I feel that we have to look at these programs to see what we can do." 

9. 
Reagan made the ludicrous ­and promptly laughed at-assertion that his squabbling administration is one big happy family. 

10. 
He resorted to the Nixon device for proving that he has a sound foreign policy. He gave us the num­ber of foreign leaders he has met. 


I I . He told the press to consider what is in the national interest before 
Editorial Board 

Editor·in·Chief..............................)ohn McGrath 

Garry Wills 
Outrider. 

printing stories about his adinistra­
tion -a suggestion John Kennedy 
made after the Bay of Pigs failure, 
only to be criticized for seeking to 
impose self-censorship on the press, 
making it the government's spokes­
man rather than its independent 
critic. President Reagan talks of get­
ting the government off people's 
backs; but his administration wants 
to put it on the backs of those who 
criticize government in any way but 
Reagan's way. 
The performance was dazzling in one sense. He looked terrific while talking nonsense. He clearly does not know that he docs not know what he is saying; and neither does much of his audience. 
Jimmy Carter, however, at this stage of his presidency was still well­liked as a person and approved of overall. But suspicions of incom­petence were growing, hints of trouble were getting confirmed. And the same is happening to Reagan. In the Gallup Poll for October, 56 per­cent of the people still approve of Reagan's performance; yet 53 per­cent disapprove of the way he has handled unemployment, and the growing dismay over the economy is registered on inflation as well ( 48 percent disapproving, to 44 approv­ing ). One cannot stay naked forever without people's beginning to notice. 
SMCExecutive Editor........... Mary Agnes Carey 
The Observer is an independcm EdiiOrials rcprcscm the opinion of a 
Featut"f!s Editor .........................Gregory Swiercz 
newspaper published by the studcms of the majority of the Editorial Board. Com men· SMC News Editor......................Cathy Domanico 
Unlvcrsily of NOire Dame du Lac and Saint tarics, opinions and lcucrs arc the views of 
Mary's College. II docs not necessarily their authors. Column space is available to Department Managers 
rc:Oc:ct the: policies of the: administration of all members of the community, and the: free 
either inslitution. The news is reported as expression of varying opinions on campus, ._Business Manaser ..................... , ... Rich Coppola 
accurately and as objcclivety as possible. through lcucrs._~c~~c~~ Production Manager...................Michael Monk Controller.................................... :::::: ..joe-Mulllur Circulation Manager .............Tom MacLennan Advertising Manager.......................Chris Owen
P.O.BOX Q,NOTRE DAME, IN 46556 (219)283-8661 
Wednesday, November 18, 1981 -pag..:,,





Eeatures 
Play retains lively image 
Marya Antonova (joan Quinlan) andAnnaAndreyevna (Susan Gosdick) peek through a window in a scene from The Inspector Gcnc:ral (phr1to by Cheryl Ertelt) 
""' 

-Trivia Quiz IX 
ome of my favorite (and least favorite) Beatie maniacs told me, "ISconsider myself a Beatles fan, but your quiz was impossible!" .So here are the answers to my "impossible" Beatles quiz: 
By Tim Neely 
1. 
Ben Kaempfert produced the eight Tony Sheridan recordings in 1961. 

2. 
YAA 1022 is the matrix number of"All Those Years Ago," the Beatles reunion song from last summer. 

3. 
"You've Got to Hide Your Love Away" by The Silkie featured Lennon and McCartney as producers and Harrison on tambourine. 

4. 
"Can't Buy Me Love," "Twist and Shout," "She Loves You," "Please Please Me," and "I Want to Hold Your Hand," respectively, were the top five 45s the week ofApril 4, 1964. 

5. 
The Beatles wi.th Billy Preston ("Get Back") was the only num­ber one not listed as solely The Beatles. 

6. 
"I'm Looking Through You" fromRubberSoul on the U.S. stereo version features two false starts. 

7. 
Tiny Tim sings "Nowhere Man," believe it or not, on the 1968 Beatles' Christmas Record. 

8. 
"I WannaBe Your Man" was written by Lennon and McCartney for the Rolling Stones. 

9. 
"Words ofLove," fromBeatles VI, sounds almost exactly like Buddy Holly's original. (Listen to them one after the other and you will see what I mean.) 

10. 
The Beatles Alpha Omega was the unauthorized four-record greatest hits set which led to the two legitimate anthologies. 


And now, on to current events-in other words, this week's quiz. These are song lyrics with a word (or words) left out ofeach. The content ofeach blank is a well-known artist who has had success during the rock era. To help you, I have even identified the song that the lyric is from. Fill in the blanks. 
I. ''The ----new record's a gas" (from "Ball ofConfusion") 
2. 
"I hope ------will remember..:· (from "Sweet Home Alabama") 

3. 
"Nothing but blues and----..." (from "FM") 

4. 
"And------playin' on the radio" (from "Ain't Even Done with the Night") 

5. 
"Puts on ----and starts to cry" (from "On ?nd On") 

6. 
"1 need your help, ------"(from the song ot the same name) 

7. 
"Mr. Hughes hid in ----'s shoes..." (from "Garden Party") 

8. 
"And ----brought us all to the dock ofthe bay" (from "Rock and Roll Heaven") 

9. 
"I dig--------..." (from"l DigRockandRoll Music") 

10. 
"It looks a lot like the one used by ------"(from "Rock Show") 



L.B. Vacca 

Theatre Review 
-· 

yet in Nikolai Gogol's 150-year-old satire of Russian provincial bureaucracy. The play works well even today, despite its dislocations in time, space, and circumstance, be­cause the faces offolly that Gogo! shows us are generically human ones. A fool's a fool, regardless ofhis century, and Gogo! sketchesa whole catalogue ofthem to aT. 
The "Inspector General" has all the elements ofan entertaining theatrical experience. And if a viewer were also to be left somehow with an uneasy apprehension at the play's end, that for Gogo!, re fools, it takes one to know one, then a production would have achieved the playwright's aim. 
Set in "Such and Such a Town," a place so unequivocally provincial that one might "ride for three years without coming to another country," "The Inspector General" holds up to ridicule the petty and not-so-petty corruptions ofthe town's officialdom. A recklessly crooked bureaucracy was indeed a major fact oflife in 19th century Russia, and any reader ofRussian his­tory will attest to how surprisingly little the play exaggerates reality. 
The plot is simple: the town's offi­
cials, each one a fraud ofsome stripe 
or other, learn that an inspector 
general (even, oh greatest of 

worries, an inspector general incog­
nito) has their town on his inspec­
tion list. Knowing what they do 
about their own situation, they un­
derstandably panic, then incorrectly 
identify a visitor to their town as the 
inspectorgeneral and proceed to try 
to impress and/or suborn him. The 
visitor is ofcourse himselfa shyster: 
when crooks meet crook the fun 
begins in earnest. 

Amore than adequate production 
by director Leonard Powlick and his 
large cast generally serves the play 
well. Some nineteen actors are in­
volved (and that's with several in­
stancesofdouble casting); as is to be 
expected, there's some unevenness of performance. But the cast is well rehearsed; even the less gifted add their part. Gogol's characterizations are broad, essentially caricatures, and amusing even without subtlety ofrole interpretation. 
Those players who did go beyond the obviousin their parts did so with great success and deserve special commendation. Susan Gosdick, in her portrayal ofAnna Andreyevna, offered a bravura blend oftight­nostriled gentility and lip-licking lechery, to the audience's delight. Joan Quinlan's handling ofthe bumbleheaded daughter was deft, as vacuous as Gogo! could have wished. John Davenport, in a relatively small role, won well­deserved applause for his second-act portrayal ofvanal indecision, surely one ofthe best-conceived turns of his ND/SMC career. 

The Tweedledee-Tweedledum set ofPaul Clay and Daniel Moran worked together well; Clay's Dob­chinsky was especially inspired, a man for whom it's all somehow too much. And Sean Faircloth handled the demanding role ofthe pseudo­inspector general with aplomb and charm. Ifhis moustache made him look occasionally like Groucho Marx, all to the good -Gogo! and Groucho generally work the same side ofthe street. 
The players were, as a whole most amiable, a delight to watch. And there's a bit ofa problem. Can these really be corrupt folks? 
In general, if I have one quibble with Powlick's conception ofthe play, it is that he has cosmeticized, rendered more acceptable, some fairly nasty types. This imaginary garden does have real spiders in it, ugly ones. Missing in this production is the nastiness, the real squalor, that Gogo! went to great lengths to present in his equally comic novel DeadSouls. In "The Inspector 
General" even the most miscreant 
character is likeable, beginning and 
end. 
The pleasantness extends to other aspects ofthe production as well. Thomas Left's set, while showing flashes ofthe bad taste that Gogo! (apparently with excellent reason) unfailingly ascribed to the bureacracy, is perhaps too attractive for the play, almost charming. The acres ofplastic potted palms are a step in the right direction, but Leff is in a way a victim ofhis own sense of good proponion and balance. Yet the set, even iftoo good for the likes ofthem, is entirely playable; the transformation for Act I scene II is an especially ingenious piece ofwork. 
Ellyn Brannick's costuming deserves analogous comment: some ofit is just too good. Osip, the pseudo-inspector's man-servant, is a vision in an apricot tunic, looking more like a Pan-slavic Mr. Clean than the flea-bitten character the script refers to him as. Some ofthe male characters are positively dapper. But for these lapses Brannick is more than forgiven thanks to the inspired tackiness oftwo wonderful gowns -"the flowered one" and "my but­tercup yellow." They quite take the breath away. 
What with genial players, a color­ful production, lots ofgood humor and lively pacing, "The Inspector General" is a delight to see -and I recommend it as the entertainment bargain ofnext weekend. But some­thing's missing. 
In reference to the play, Powlick quotes an old proverb: "No use blaming the mirror ifyour face is crooked." Powlick clearly realizes that ultimately Gogo! is self­reflexive, like all satirists wonh their rapiers. It's not just the folks out there, the clods in "Such and Such a Town," who are fools, but your own blue-eyed self. That's just the dimen­sion this charming production of "The Inspector General" doesn't quite serve. But for good fun, you can't beat it. 
L.B. Vacca is an AssistantProfes­sor ofEnglish atSaintMary's Col­lege. 

Wednesday, November 18, 1981 -pagt: "":'
The Observer --Features 
The innocence of little children 
n this hustle and bustle ofIa1.:ademia, I recently pondered the thought of how little children view the world. Their sense ofinnocence and wonderment surpasses the kvel 
ii"iiNiWfilll:&:li1;:~J.~;ill,;~tm~ 
Gregory Swiercz Features Editor 
Reflections 
of most college students. Seeing the pure, ever-trusting face ofchildren is sad, for one day they will lose 
some, if not all of that sense ofwon­
derment that allows children to 
believe in Santa Claus, Popeye, and 
Kermit. 
I sometimes wonder how it must 
have felt to be innocent. Everyone 
has been innocent at one time in his 
life. For most, it is early in one's 
childhood. Society shows that 
"child" is many times synonymous 
with"innocent." Ifa person is called 
a "child," they are labeled as im­
mature, naive, and unknowing. 
Last week I was sitting in my 
favorite neighborhood laundromat 
reading my Faulkner. Amid the 
sound and the fury of the washing 
machines, two children gleefully 
played in the waiting area. 
After ten minutes ofplay, one of 
the children picked up a book and 
sat down in a chair next to mine. I beamed at the thought ofsomeone mimicking me. 
"Hi." 
"Hello. What do you have there?" 
"A book." 
"Ooo, that's nice." 
The little girl began to 

meticulously turn the pages, making sure to verbally describe every picture on the page. Her vocabulary limited her into depleting anything she saw as either a boy, a girl, or a cow. I chuckled after she called "man's best friend" a cow. I was impressed with her understanding of Indian culture. 
Her little playmate, intrigued by the little girl's literary expertise, sat down beside her and instantly became her echo. 
"Gimme the book," the boy pleaded. 
"Wait, we'll share," the girl 

returned. I silt:ntly thanked the girl's 
mother for she evidently is doing a 
heck ofa job ofchild-rearing. 
The two sat there describing 

every illustration, playing "can you 
top this?" With every turn of the 
page, the children became more and 
more giddy. Their voices began to 
drown out the drone of the 
machines. 
All ofa sudden, a silence fell over 

the two. I peeked over to sec them 
looking at a full-page illustration of 
the Nativity. 
The girl was the first to speak. "Look, this is you." She was pointing to a small black shepherd boy. 
Not to be outdone, the boy spotted a girl in the pinure and proudly stated "Hey look. Here's you too!" 
The two, getting bored the way children usually do, ran over and sat in front ofthe dryers, pretending the kaleidoscope ofwet garments was "Sesame Street." 
The innocence of the pair of children forced me to think about the first time I realized that I had lost my sense of wonderment. I couldn't recall it. I'm not sure that many people could. It seems that at the point ofrealizing that innocence is lost, a person begins to take life's events as facts. Attitudes and beliefs form without the objective, in­nocent review the two children showed me. It seems necessary to lose your innocence in order to ex­ist in this world. 
I hope the world fails to dispel the 
innocence ofthese two children 
from the laundromat. I hope they get 
the chance to cling to this necessary 
and worthwhile virtue. In the world 
today, there will be many obstacles 
to overcome in order for children to 
maintain their innocence. Their 
youth is fleeting; may their in­
nocence be sustained. 

Concert review 
Off Broadway entices crowd 

------· 
to be Christians ? 
n a sermon delivered recently on campus, the celebrant asked theIquestion,"Do we have time to be Christians?" Sadly enough, Idon't believe we allow ourselves the time. We take time out each day to study, eat, and sleep. We are all on schedules. 
It bas to be that way. We are tested to the point that we find our­selves in a vicious cycle oftest, recover,test, recover,... We have to do well, because we have to be marketable when this mess is over. "After I've completed this four years ofwork, I'll go on to graduate school, get a good job offer, then I'll relax and appreciate life. Then I will have time to apply my Christian values to daily activity." Sound familiar? 
In essence, we are puttinglifeon bold for a while. Yet, we are fools 
to believe that our time in the future will be any less demandin~ ofus 
than it is now. What we do now, the Christian values we incorporate 
into our lives here, represent ~ , 
the type ofChristians we will · · 
be later. 
Mike Berry
It is easy to see that as Chris· tians we are in a constant struggle with our environ­ment and society's expecta­
tions. A child is taught to be strong and cold because the world itself will be this way. Why? Why can't we teach our children that they 
need not become a part ofa cold and heartless society? 
Children are our greatest examples. They are born with such love and curiosity and feeling, but the world changes them. The world changes us. 
Like a child at an early age, we were anxious to become a part of Notre Dame. We lookedtoward to enriching ourselves spiritually and socially. We had that love and curiosity and feeling. We had energy and youth and determination, and we couldn't wait to em­bark on what would be a meaningful path. Yet the path too many of us keep is a triangular one, running from the library to the dining hall to our dorms. Each time we run to the library when we know our roommate has a troubled mind, we are telling the world that it has broken that spirit oflove and concern we had. We are saying the world is much larger than us, so we must conform to its ways, harsh as they may be. 
We don't have to be cold like the world. We can use our intel­ligence and determination to mmake the valuesofloving and caring regain their significance. We can once again be the controllers ofour environment, not the controlled. 
Theophastus said, "Time is the most valuable thing a man can spend." This is more valuable than any amount of money or riches. We have the time. Let us give ourselves the chance to use this time to be Christians, to open our hearts and cars as well as our textbooks. Let us take life offbold. 

The Abiogenesis Dance Collective willpresent an informal con. cert Nov. /8 at 8 p.m. in the LaFortune Ballroom. 

F
riday the I 3th defied its unlucky traits for those who attended the Head East -Off Broadway -Sten­cil Forest concert held at Morris Civic Auditorium. The crowd was 
By Brian Krueger 
treated to a showcase oiprogressive rock that is rarely seen in one con­cert. 
Stencil Forest, an up-and-coming band from Elkhart, Indiana, brought the crowd immediately to its feet despite the fact that most of the fans had not previously experienced the band. Trying to break out ofthe Top­40 grind that most local clubs demand, this was their first real chance to exhibit a completely original set. 
A highlight of their short set was "Celestial Voices," a resonant tunc in the styk ofYes, a major influence on the group's composer Cassella. This song brought forth the talent of Cassella's younger brother, Rick, on keyboards. 
Unfortunately, Stencil Forest was 
:ut off after their fourth song, though they had planned on playing eight. It seemed that backstage con­fusion unjustly deprived the crowd offully experiencing the band. Ab­sent was the group's hot single, "Opening Act," (which has received local radio play) and their chance to plug their debut album ofthe same name, which wil debut in mid­February. 
After a prolonged intermission, Chicago's own Off Broadway hit the stage. It was clear from the start that they intended to strip away the critics appraisal ofbeing only a studio band. They transformed "Bad Indication," a timid track offtheir "ON" album into a high energy con­cert opener. 
As the crowd warmed up, lead singer CliffJohnson supplied proof ofhis vocal ability. Two tracks of their new Quick Turns album, 
"Automatic" and "Showdown," allowed johnson to show off his unique voice. Unfortunately, their top-40 hit, "Stay in Time." was plagued by sound troubles but was carried by the roar of the crowd sin­
ging the refrain. Johnson's physical and vocal 
acrobatics during the closing num­ber sent the crowd into a rage which did not subside until Off Broadway 
returned for a well-deserved encore. 
The headline band, "Head East," failed to live up to their billing, but managed to hold the crowd with their hits ofyesteryear. Head East had been restructured recently to fill the gaps left by the departure of three ofthe band's five members which left only the frame ofdrum­mer Steve Huston and keyboard player Roger Boyd. 
Although they opened big with "Can't Stop Me," they lost the crowd's enthusiasm as they coursed 

1 into a set ofprimarily new material. People merely sat back and waited until their favorites arrived. 
"Love Me Tonight," one of those favorites, proved disappointing as lead singer Dan Odom tried to dupl­icate john Schlitt's original record­ing rather than using his own style. Nonetheless, the crowd was happy to hear some familiar sounds. 
The "old faithfuls" finally arrived as "Since You Been Gone" and "Never Been Any Reason" sent the crown into a frenzy. Odom handled 
the lyrics in character. rather than trying to synthesize Schlitt again. 
Deserving an encore, they played an energetic 12-minute version of "Elijah," but again wooed the crowd to sleep with two new songs, "Never Be The Same" and "Take My Hand" to close the show. 
It is obvious that Head East must evaluate their position to determine whether they will continue produc­ing sub-par music at the expense of their classics or ifthey will bow out gracefully, allowing themselves to retain the star status they achieved so long ago. It is my hope they adjust toward the latter. 
Although the concert was filled with ups and downs, the sheer variety oftalent exhibited on stage will stay on as a memory that will not be soon forgotten. Each band's style provided a showcase of musical flavor that can only be generated in a concert setting. The night proved to be the future , present, and past (in that order) ofprogressive rock in the U.S. 


Sports Brie/§ 
' 
By The Observer and The AssociatedPress 
t 
The SMCTurkeyTrotis scheduled for Monday at 4 
p.m. The three-mile run is open to everyone in the Saint Mary's com­munity. First, second and third place prizes will be presented in each. of these three categories: students, male staff/faculty and female staff/faculty. Interested runners must register by bringing the $1 entry fee to the Angela Athletic Facility before Friday. For more in­formation, contact Mr. Dillon at 4182 (SMC).-The Observer 
The second of two clinics on officiating ;wim meets is scheduled for tomorrow at the Rockne Memorial. The subject will be "Timing, Finish and Stroke Judging and Scoring." Interested swimmingofficials should report to Roo t m 218 ofthe Rock at 7:15 
p.m. For more information, contact Coach Dennis Stark ( 4580) be­tween 4 and 8 p.m. -The Observer 
Classifieds 

NOTICES 
The Society for Creative Anachronism is coming to this campus. Watch for it!!! 
NEED REPAIRS DONE ON YOUR CAR? 5th year MECHANICAL ENGINEER WILL DO ENGINE, BODY, and TUNE-UP WORK for MUCH LOWER COSTS than a service station can offer. For FREE ES­TIMATES ... Call Mike 289-7414. 
Jugglers Club meets Thursdays 7:oo by the ice rink in the ACC 
TWIST AND SHOUT 46 Friday 
L.l_L_o__s_T_I_F_o_u_N_o_..,...,l 
lost: back-pack, tan and blue. Made by WyEast, Inc. call Vince x1238 
LOST One Gold Bracelet on Saturday before or during the Georg1a Tech game. Most likely lost on Green F1eld during the Dillon Hall ta1lgaiter near the backstop across from Sen1or Bar If found, Please call Michael 233·2969. 
LOST: WOMENS CLASS RING ON WED. NOV. 5 AROUND THE ACC, TEN· NIS COURTS AND SOCCER FIELD. SILVER, NAVY BLUE STONE,CDC INI­TIALS ENGRAVED INSIDE. PLEASE. IF YOU'VE FOUND IT, COULD YOU CALL CYNDIE AT 2776256. THANX. 
LOST: KEYS ON GREEN AND WHITE C­SHAPED RING BETWEEN C2 LOT AND LIBRAAY.APPAOX. 8 KEYS. PLEASE CALL IRENE 272·4453. 
LOST: 1 NEW GREEN NOTRE DAME JACKET \19'oGOLD LETIEAING ON BACK. SIZE MEDIUM. BOUGHT IN N.D.· BOOKSTORE. LOST WEDNESDAY, NOV. 11, BETWEEN 5 AND 6 P.M. IN SOUTH DINING HALL. MAY HAVE BEEN MISTAKEN FOR YOUR OWN. PLEASE CHECK. CALLJULLE AT 3857 
LOST: Canon Camera Saturday 1Vo7 in 
vicinty of CCE, Bridget's, King's Cellar. 
Call 287-1705 if found please. Thanks. 
LOST: A BROWN EYEGLASS CASE CONTAINING GLASSES AND A CON­TACT LENSE CASE. MIGHT HAVE BEEN LOST IN NIEWLAND SCI. BLDG. IF FOUND, CALL 1171. 
LOST: A White Gold Pearl Necklace. Has 
Great Sentimental Value! BIG REWARD 
if found. Call 2843. 
lost-Tan purse w1th red wallet 1ns1de. You can keep the money, but please return the wallet, with the pictures and driver's license to SMC security · No quesllons asked!! 
FOUND: Calculator in Nieuwland Science. Identify type and location to claim. Call Alex at 3258. 
LOST: 1981 DESMET JESUIT HIGH CLASS RING. GOLD WITH INITIALS JMD. IF FOUND PLEASE CONTACT JOHNAT8291. 
FOUND: RING, initials MMW, at Senior Bar. 13 Oct; call Betsy 277·6082. 
FOUND: 1 blue & white HOHNER KAZOO. If you want it back, cough up one buck for you know what to you know who. 
REWARD FOR RETURN OF PEARL­
DIAMOND RING LOST NOV. 13 BE­
TWEEN HOWARD AND FARLEY 
PLEASE CALL KATIE x6723 FOUND: large number of STAMPS IN 
B.A. Building on 1Vo 16 Call Steve at 3121 
to claim. ......................................................... 
UGLY DUCKLING RENT A CAR. FROM $7.95 A DAY & WEEKEND SPECIALS AVAILABLE. CALL259·8459. 
ROOMMATE WANTED· COMPLETELY AURNISHED APT -BAA, KITCHEN, CABLE TV· CALL DAVE AT 283·1169 · RENT NEGOTIABLE 
MALE ROOMMATE WANTED FOR FURNISHED APARTMENT. $1Hl'oMONTH UTILITIES PAID. 287· 5469 
l WANTED l 
N~ed ride to Cleveland for Thanksgiving. Call John at 8450. 
Need ride to D.C. for Thanksgiving break. Stop. Room-mate needs ride to Mil­waukee. Stop. If you're going either way, stop first and call us. Stop. Then call1158. Stop. Now go. Stop. 
NEED RIDE TO COLUMBUS, OHIO FOR THANKSGIVING BREAK CAN LEAVE ANYTIME. WILL SHARE USUAL. CALL MIKE x8691 
Needride to CONN/NY area for T-g1v1ng. Share usual. Call Brian at 3378. 
RIDE NEEDED TO ATLANTA FOR THANKSGIVING -CAN LEAVE MON­DAY NIGHT CALL LISA 41-4679. 
NEED A RIDE TO NORTH JERSEY FRIDAY, NOV 20. RIGHT OFF ROUTE 80 (DENVILLE). CAN LEAVE AT 2 00 
P.M. CALL MIKE AT 1181. WILL SHARE THE USUAL 
NEED RIDE TO PENN STATE DESPERATELY FOR GAME. CALL STEVE 8762 OR 8761 
PETER FONDA, alias Chns Seem, needs ride to Henry Fonda's deathbed in Omaha for Thanksgiving break. Call Peter at 3574 
Struggling actor needs ride to OMAHA for Thanksgiving break. Call Chris at 3574 
DESPERATELY NEED A RIDE TO NORTH JERSEY FOR THANKSGIVING. CAN LEAVE ON TUESDAY OR WED· NESDAY. IF GOING PASSED 1-80 TO WAYNE PLEASE CALL TEDDY D. AT 6756. 
CENTRAL OHIO AIDE BOARD---Will match those who need ndes with those who need nders for Thanksgiving break. Interested riders and drivers call Jamie at 1292. 
NEED PENN STATE TIXS CALL JIM­1742 
NEED ONE WAY RIDE TO PENN STATE. PLEASE CALL KATE AT 2897 
Need ride to No. Jersey lor break. Can leave en Monday 1Vo23. Call Michael 233-2969. 
lovely ST. PAUL, MINNESOTA is calling me -but I have no ride for Turkey Day!! Will share usual. X 3445, ask for Aileen. 
Needed-ride to Long Island for Thanksgiving. Will leave Monday after­noon but preferably on Tuesday after­noon. Call John-1495! 
HELP!!II desperately need a ride to Penn State for the game! Either one or two ways, will shate usual. Call Tom at 1495. 

......... .. .... .. ... .. DESPERATELY NEED RIDE TO PENN STATE. Will waste DRUGS and MONEY on SUICIDE if I don't get there! OtherwiSe, I am willing to share. CALL BOB 1428 
Need ride to D.C. or thereabouts lor Thanksgiving. Will share usuals. Please call Pete 3049 
Need ride to VIRGINIA lor Thanksgiving. Can leave Monday afternoon. Please call Jack a11100. 
Need ride lor 2 humans to Cleveland lor Thanksgiving. 289-1916. 
I'd really like to get Ia Miami lor Turkey. Atlanta or South would be fine. Please call Jo. 277-0884 
Ride needed to long Island area for Thanksgiving. Can leave as early ts Mon­day afternoon. Will share usual. Call Paul aft tOO. 
I need a ride for two to Chicago on Thursday, Nov. 26 (Turkey day). Will share the usual. If you can help me out, call Tom a\8771. 
Help! I need a ride to Fort Wayne lor Thanksgiving. 8602 
WANTED: AIDE OR RIDERS TO AL· BANY FOR T'DAY · CALL CATE AT 3755. 
Need ride to Indianapolis lor Turkey Day Paul-2277 
We wouldn't want to be Marines, but we are looking lor a few good men to form a band that will specialize in New Musik. We are look~ng for the best bassist on campus. along with a strong drummer and a mediocre saxaphomst to anarchize with two punks. Want to play own music, but we like P1L, the Heads, J.Jackson, and R.James. II you can shut up~lox?! art and dance, qtll Greg ( 1217) or Rob (3650) or leave nam8'onumber. Don't expect to cash in; it falls us now.. 
Riders Wanted to Denver or west on 1-80. leave Tues. afternoon, back Mon. nile. call3476 
I need riders to PITTSBURGH who can leave on Tues., 1Vo24. Call Bob 3458. 
RIDERS NEEDED TO BOSTON FOR OCTOBER BREAK. CALL GERARD OR CHUCK, 8892. 
Need ride to Washington, DC for Thanksgiving Break, Call Colleen 4·1· 4692 
Desperately need nde to lnd.U. on 1Vo20 and back on 1Vo22, call 4-1-4623 or 4-1· 5483 
Need ride to Buffalo lor Thanksgiving. Call Kev1n al3575 
Need 2 rides to and from Champagne II lor this weekend. Call Joe Montana at 3419 
FOR SALE 

Hall fare coupons on Republic Ia Flonda 233·6793 
GOOD STONES TIX CHI MONDAY 287· 9342 
TICKETS 

Penn St. ticket wanted please call Donna at6771 
I 

Wednesday, November 18, 1981 -page H 

The ND windsurfing club will be holding an 
organizational meeting tomorrow·at 7:30p.m. in the Grace pit. All are welcome. All those who bought shirts must attend. Topics will include a trip to Florida, lessons, and the viewing ofa short promo­tional film on Windsurfing in Hawaii. Refreshments will be served afterward for those who can stay. For more information, call Tim at 1 782. -The Observer 
Big boat sailorswith racing experience on medium to large size boats are needed by the Notre Dame Sailing Club. Call Phil Reynolds at 233-3411 for more details.-The Observer 
Mark Zavagnin, Notre Dame's junior linebacker will be the guest tonight on WSND's "Speaking ofSports." The show can be heard at midnight on 640-AM, and listeners may call in. -The Ob­
server 
NATIONAL HOCKEY LEAGUE Top 16teama qualify lor playoffs 

W  L  T  GF  GA  Pta  
Edmonton  12  6  2  102  77  26  
N.Y.Islanders  10  4  4  71  65  24  
, Montreal  10  3  4  92  43  24  
Boston  10  4  4  75  56  24  
Quebec  1 t  9  1  96  91  23  
Minnesota  10  3  3  80  43  23  
Buffalo  8  4  6  62  56  22  
Philadelphia  10  6  1  64  71  21  
Chicago  7  5  6  97  81  20  
Vancouver  8  8  3  64  61  19  
Pittsburgh  8  7  3  65  69  19  
Winnipeg  8  7  2  71  81  18  
Detrort  7  7  4  74  69  18  
St.Louis  7  10  2  75  80  16  
los Angeles  8  10  0  81  90  16  
N.Y. Rangers  7  10  1  60  75  15  
Toronto  5  9  3  75  78  13  
Calgary  4  12  4  63  97  12  
Hartford  2  8  7  51  67  11  
Colorado  3  11  3  44  87  9  
Washington  2  14  1  47  72  5  

Yesterday's Results 

Quebec 7, N.Y. Islanders 2 
Edmonton 5, St. loUis 1 
Calgary 6, Winn1peg 4 Today's Games Toronto at Hartford Philadelphia at N.Y. Rangers St. louis at Pittsburgh Colorado at Wash1ngton Buffalo at Chicago Minnesota at Winnipeg Detroit jll los Angeles 
See SPORTSBOARD, page 9 
Need tix for Penn State. Call Stan. 3006 or 3008. 
PENN STATE GA's needed. Will PAY top $. Call287-6035 and ask for JOHN 
Need two l1ckets for Friday night's basket­ball game. Call272-5239. ·NEED PENN STATE TIX NOW! 2 GA's or stUdent tickeiS'o CALL JOHN AT x1941!'o 
ROLLING STONES TIX FOR SALE CALL KEITH 3702 
STONES TIX FOR SALE call Steve­x1416 
FOR SALE 2 Penn State tickets. Call 3226. 
DON'T WAIT UNTIL THE LAST SECOND. IF YOU DON'T HAVE A AIDE TO THE PENN STATE GAME, SELL ME YOUR TICKETS. MIKE at 8657. 
I have 6 GA's for Penn State to sell. Call Trish 41-4875. 
Two GA basketball tickets lor sale. Call 41-4872. 
For sale: 4 Miami GA's ph. 1205 
PERSONALS 
.... ... "SIM(JN" ...... the touching story ofa Father and his mouse ... 
THE ZAHM COFFEEHOUSE IS OPEN EVERY THURSDAY FOR YOUR EXIS. TENTIAL PLEASURE. OFFERING THE FINEST IN LIVE ENTERTAINMENT, COFFEE, TEA, HOMEMADE DONUTS, FREE POPCORN AND PAT GALLAG­HER. COME DOWN AND SEE IF OUR PROFESSIONAL CONVER­SATIONALISTS ARE PAID ENOUGH. 9-12 EVERY THURSDAY NIGHT, ZAHM BASEMENT. 
ACORN will have a represetat1ve in the Volunteer Service Office, 1.5 LaFortune, on Thurs. Nov.19. All are welcome to at­tend the group informational meeting at 
1:00 or JUSt drop by after that to talk to Bruce McAllister. 
Experienced typist will do typing. Call 287-5162. 
ROOMMATE CALLING YOU BLOW­
FISH? 
Call the Fat G1rl's Hotline----8960. 
(Sponsored by League of Fat) 
The Society for Creative Anachronism is coming to this campus. Watch lor it!!! 
FAT GIRLS TAKE HEART! -The League of Fat is sponsonng a Fat­Off---Fnday,Nov.20 Be at the LaFortune Ballroom! 
GIGANTIC PODS FROM OUTER SPACE/ Need Penn State Tix for food 2 llx--Ga's or Student Call Pod x1 x1947 
HODE IT! HODE IT! HODE IT! HODE ITI Wha' chu be talkin' 'bout? 
SHOW YOUR LADY YOU CARE BEFORE THE CHRISTMAS BREAK WITH A MONTH OF FLOWERS. A BOU· QUET OF FLOWERS EVERY WEDNES· DAY FOR 4 WEEKS... DELIVERED!!! WEDNESDAYS FLOWERS 289·1211. anachromsm: n. a thing or person that IS out of place w1th respect to time. EX: Moses weanng a llmex d1gital watch IS an anachronism. 
HALLOWEEN lady Di, Do you remember when we got mamed at Grace? Well, what happened to the honeymoon? Call Pnnce Charles at 6726. 
BP 10·0 BP 10-0 BP 10·0 .. 
The Observer will accept classifieds Mon­day through Friday, 10 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. However, classifieds to appear in the next issue must be received by 3 p.m. the business day prior to insertion. All classifieds must be prepaid, either in person or through the mail. 
.. .. LIEDEAHOSEN-What are they? Why do Krauts make them? What is their function on our campus? What keeps you from chafing in them in the hot weather? Should bagpipes or some Guiness ac­company them? Who is asking all these questions? Why are you answenng them? Is nothing sacred??!! 
HAZEL -Red always has been a good color! ­MILDRED -P.S. I'm sorry. 
BOY SCOUT OF AMERICA· The THREE RULES" apply to you, tool 
WHAT TO DO ON TURKEY DAY? · Stuck to the Wall 
LARRY 0 Just to keep you on your toes I ­MO 
Carrie Madenda· Put on those dancin' shoes! 
I've heard of nose-rings before, but never nose-spoons. J.B. 
Today is Robin's GOLDEN BIRTHDAY!! Make a SMiC chick happy-give her a call at 41-5333. She's FINALLY LEGAL!! love, Cake-Eater and Diet-boy! Where the hell is New Brighton???!! Ill 
ROBIN' HAPPY GB·day. Go for it, 1n LIEDERHOSEN of courselll Date an economics m8)or and supply on demand. From two residents of real towns!!! 
.................. ............................... . 
NEED RIDERS TO BALTIMORE AREA 
FOR THANKSGIVING. CAN LEAVE 
TUESDAY (11/24). CALL CARL3249. 
H E l P I Two guys need ride to NYC/NJ/Phil area lor T·Giving. Can leave TUES. CALL6802 !Ill 
HOW can we stop the radical decentralists from squelching the LIEDERHHOSEN population??? 
Alta-We'll only trade Steve for Steve...S.M.K. 
PART OR FULL TIME WORK FROM HOME. PROCESSING MAIL OR TYPING. EXPERIENCE UNNECES· SARY. EXCELLENT INCOME POTEN· TIAL. INFORMATION, SEND STAMPED, SELF-ADDRESSED EN· VELOPE. P.O. BOX 44585-ND, LOS OLIVOS STA., PHOENIX, AZ 85064. 
8Liici<M'ilfii<E:-f.8:.\8tf:s.f=ofi.si1Lf:.. 
Contact MUSCK 
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .... . 
CURSE YOU REO BARONIII AFROTC 
SNOOPY" SHIRTS NOW ON SALE. 
ORDER YOURS BY THIS FRIDAY AT 
THE ROTC BUILDING. 
Pv!A'FirM:.\Firv:·fi,ciiiiN'ofioa:·;;.~~·~~ 
proven that you don't have to be from Moeller to be a great coach. One more and we're there. Thanks for everything. 
MMMOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO! Today IS lisa Bontempo's Birthday! (She's 21. and you can give her birthday kisses al Lee's where she'll be pokmg at her ribs ... ) 
Hey lisa: I w1sh I could cross the chasm, 
but as the say1ng goes: tough one. 
Anyway, Happy Birthday pal! Remember my essence resides on your wrist. 
Ryan 
LAURA LEE, Thou alloweth much to be entoylh in lifelh. 
Pat is God Tom is God Molson 1s God 'Toes" are God Lou 1sGod Stealers are Gods Lom1s God George is close Joe is nght-out God d1ed in the 60's and Dave is now the ult1mate God. LET THE PEONS BEWARE!!!! 
.......... 
Richard Grimaldi -here is your personal. A letter is on the way. A fellow drinker of primordial soup. (I hear music in the back­ground) 
To the 1nlamous red-head who kisses strangers in bars and piays a mean game of bar dice. Happy 21st SHARON "DUBOIS" love. Madge, Flag, and Juice 
XX 
THE B.P. ANIMALS" WILL ROMP THE PAC TONIGHT. GOOD LUCK TO A GREAT TEAM AND COACHING STAFF. 
(J.R.)  
INTENSITY!  INTENSITY!  INTENSITY!  
GOB.P.I  
a  

Happy Bithday b 
to youc dear Robin 2ab ac ab " 18 I! today Call her 5333 
Robert Powers. Richard lang, & Marty Pallante, WE LOVE YOU. What a way to coach a team to victory. The girls from whole room unity Leftback (73) & leftguard (85) 
MARTIN MICHEAL-------Meradith and Vala1da WISh you the in the game today. It's been great.Prom1ses.promises, promises. Enjoy the last LAP. Donna­Marie and Le1gh Anne 
Greg L.. let's get physical, physical. 1 want to be animal... 
BUD Caterina Thanks for my personal and sorry about my screw-ups on our weekend extravaganza. Boo-Boo 
Boner-T (alias mousecatcher) Your per­sonals give me such a thrill, But your Italian won't pay my bill, I want MONEY, that's what I want. Money don't get everyting it's true, But a d1nner will nicely dol love UTILE FEET 
Debbie, Oh Debb1e, We all love you Debbie, Oh Debbie, Without you what would we do Without you what would we do HAPPY BIRTHDAY DEBBIE 
Happy Birthday NLATD! Smile! 
10 All the leaves are brown And the sky is grey. California Dreamin'--46 Friday 
10 Where were you in '62? Find out in 46 
Friday! 
10 Desperately In need ol11ex? Well I'm desperately in need of a ride to the Penn State game Perhaps an exchange can be worked out, but I prefer to pay in cash. Call Jato at 1073. 
ATIENTION WOMEN OF ND-SMC In­sulted by FAT JOKES? Call the League of Underaexed Jerks who are respon· Sible for the fat" personals of the past week. Ask lor Disco DaDave, Small Sarph. and Hade It Scott at 6931, the true organizers of the League of Fat. Give them a p1ece of your mind. The people at 8960 are not responsible lor those ads. Yours in vengeance, Tom Koegel (8960) 
·································· 
TEXAS CLUB 1 DALLAS XMAS BUS $150. FOR INFO CALL 1051 or 1103 by 11/24 2 T·SHIRTS MUST BE PICKED UP IN 828 FLANNER BY 11/241! 
............................ ················ S M.K. I want to talk to you! Rita K. . ..... B-P10-0 
BREEN-MACHINE BREEN-MACHINE 
LET'S SEE SOME GOOD STICKS, STEVESIIIIII 
BREEN-PHILLIPS D": WE'VE GOT OUR HIT" TOGETHER!!!! 
STEVES: IF YOU WON'T BE BEAT, YOU CAN'T BE BEAT!!!! 
BAEEN-PHILLPS 0": DON'T STOP TILL YOU GET ENOUGH!!!! 

The Men's CrewTeamwill be holding a novice and  
varsity (optional) workout tonight at 8 p.m. in Stepan Center. For  
more information call Mike Hawboldt (8444). -The Observer  

The Observer -Sports Wednesday, November 18, 1981 -pag<: 9 
----------------------------------------------------------------------~ 


continuedfrom page 8 
tw'i/INTERHALL 

lnlerhall racquetball and handball tournaments beg1n this week. Pa1nng will appear each week in The ObservtH. "is the respons1btlrty or each part1c1pant to contact h1a or her opponent and set up a match 1n each round. Results or matches must be turned in to the interhall oH1ce (C-2 ACC) before noon on the follow1ng Tuesday. Failure to report results will mean disqualrhcat1on of both part1c1pants 
Men'a Racquetb.lll 
Tony Pierce (1424) v. Kev1n Sampson (3379) 
A1ch Cordova ( 1249) v. Dave Desaul"'ers ( 1750) 
Nell ChadwiCk (277-6320) v. Tom o·s,en (1248) 
Jack E1senbe1s (1058) v. Tony Cateflne (1621) 
Women'a Grad/Fee Racquetb.lll 
Jane Barker (272· 7325) v. Sally Derengosk1 (272· 
7325) 
Cynthia Watson (7711) v. Susan Roberts (282· 
1029) 
Men'a Grad-Fac Racquetb.lll 
Jack Jones (8827) v. Ken Roos (277-7158) 
Jtm Croke -bye 
continuedfrom page 12 
topped the I00-yard plateau three times this season and eight in his career. Carter leads all Irish ballcar­riers with 636 yards in 133 carries, and is ranked 14th on Notre Dame's 
F00TBA LL$1111::::~1\T]i ~:~~~ro~~~h~:~te~;:~sfo;~t~.6\~~~ 
·············­
AP Top Twenty 
The Top Twenty college rootballteams in The As­sociated Press poll, w1th ftrst-place votes 1n paren­theses. this season's records and total pomls Po1nts based on 20-19·1 8·17 etc Notre Dame oponents are 
Italicized 
, , , Faust 
continuedfrom page 12 
really progressed. 
"We've simplified our offense un­believeably," he continued. "As a result, we made only two mental er­rors in blocking assignments against Georgia Tech, and four against Air Force. Out of 60-70 plays a game, that's pretty good." 
Though the Irish cut out a lot of tht· backfield shifting they did earlier this year, Faust hopes to bring back some of the movement that went on between the scrimmage line and the sideline. "We eventually want to get back to platooning," he revealed. "And we almost did it in the Air Force game. But we've got to know the system a little better, and we've got to get dt:<:per to do that." 
And they've got to keep their 
momentum going ifthe Irish hope to 
take a 7-4 record to a bowl game this 
year. "These kids deserve to finish 7­
4," praised their coach. "Not many 
teams would've stuck together after 
being 2-4, lmt thcy'rt· a close-knit 
group, and they just have not quit." 
1. P1nsburgh (63) 9-0-0 2. Clemson (5) 10·0·0 3. Georg1a 9-1-0 4. Alabama 8-1-1 5. Nebraska 8·2·0 
6. Southern Methodist 9-1-0 7 Michigan 8-2-0 8. re.as 7-1-1 9. Southern MtsSISS1pp1 8-0-1 

10 Southern Cal 8-2-0 
1.354 1,290 1.169 1,128 972 924 875 873 
·810 678 

average and II touchdowns.
SHOW STOPPER -Bob Crable· now has made more tackles than any other player to wear an Irish uni­form. Crable has 492 career tackles, surpassing previolls record holder Bob Golic's 479. In the 32 games Crable has started, he has led the Irish in tackles in 30. 
WHERE ARE THEY NOW DEPARTMENT-While teammates Orlando Woolridge, Kelly Tripucka 

Sunday, Dec. 13 7:30PM NOTRE DAME A.C.C.. 
TICKETS ON SALE -...iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii'i' 
NOW!!! 
$10.50/9.50 R,..e:..:s_e_rv_e_d___________....... 
Available at the Box Office, 1st Source Bank, Main Office, 
St. Joseph's Bank, Elkhart Truth, Robertson 's--South Bend & Elkhart. 
11. Miami 7-2-0 661 12 North Carolina 8·2-0 521 13. Penn State 7-2-0 509 14. Washington State 8-1·1 461 15. UCLA 7-2-1 457 16. Arkansas 8-2-0 443 17. Wash1ngton 8-2-0 320 18. Bflgham Young 9-2-0 184 19. Iowa 7-3-0 166 20. Arizona State 7-2-0 165 
• Items 

and Tracy Jackson are vending their basketball wares in the NBA, ex-Irish guard Stan "Silky" Wilcox is an assis­tant coach at C.W. Post College in Greenvale, N.Y. 
Maybe Wilcox has designs on Digger's job? 
Erratum 

The final score of Sunday's women's interhall football game be­tween Pasquerilla West and Breen­Phillips was incorrectly reported in yesterday's Observer. B-P defeated P-W, 20-6, not 22-0 as originally reported. The Observer regrets the 
error. 
!ii************************************? 
UNIVERSITY ARCADE 
51277 US 31N open 9 am -2om 3 blocks north ot Auten Rd. 7days a week 
South Bend, Ind. ~~§~~~
PH: 277-7913 ~ Pizza
Pool VIdeos 


Sandwiches Pin Balls Bevetages
Ping Pong 

men's pool toutnament evety Thutsday bring this ad to University Arcade and register for FREE Thanksgiving .---na-me____ Turkey or Ham. 
address______ ~~ phone ~~ 
ii***********************************; 
Everybody's favorite, Pete Rose, displays still another of his ... many trophies. The Phils'first baseman was named 'Athlete ofthe Decade' by the American Cancer Society on Monday. (AP Photo) 
.....................................................................1
I~ CONGRATULATIONS ~ ~ to the Student Union I 
~ JAmBOREE TICKET WINNERS ~ 
I ~ 
~ Reenle Hetaty 1 I LeRoy Wlnembetg ~ 
~ I
1 Tom Bayet ~ ~ Jeanne Gtaaao I
I ~ 
~ I 
~ ~ ~ Tickets are ~till on sale in the dining ~ ~ halls and Student Union Ticket Office ~ 
..........................................................................J 


More Diamond For Your Dollar 
All the quality, selection, and service you've come to expect · from John M. Marshall's* for less than you'd expect to pay at the mall! 
• Fine diamonds to fit your budget • Each ring made to order for you 
• Dozens of mounting styles • Free lifetime appraisal 
• Free laser-beam Gemprint™ registration 
(219) 288-3911 
Division of Diamond Import Company
Suite 629, St. Joseph Bank Building 
• Gemologist, G. G., F. G. A .. Open Mon.-Fri. 10-6, Sat. 10-2
South Bend, Indiana 4660~ 
• 
The Observer -Sports Wednesday, November IS, 1981 -;>~tt:,,· .., 
Over Dawson 
Schmidt repeats as MVP 

.. 
Iowa's Dave Moritz (5) sprints to a 57-yard gain, setting up the Hawkeyes' first touchdown in their 17-7 victory Sqturday over 
Wisconsin in a battle of two bowl-bound teams. Hayden Fry's Hawkeyes still harbor Rose Bowl hopes, but will settle for the Liberty Bowl ifthings don't work out. The Badgers, meanwhile are headedfor the Garden State Bowl. (AP Photo) 

NEW YORK (AP)-Slugger Mike Schmidt of the Philadelphia Phillies was elected yesterday as the Nation; al League's Most Valuable Player for the second straight year by the Baseball Writers Association of America. 
Schmidt, an overwhelming choice in the balloting, became only the third National League player to win consecutive MVP awards. 
A unanimous winner of the award last year when he also was named the World Series MVP, Schmidt received 21 of a possible 24 first­place votes and 321 poin~s from the BBWAA panel, consisting of two writers from each NL city. 
Like Schmidt, runner-up Andre Dawson of Montreal was named on all 24 ballots, receiving two first­place votes and 215 points. The only other player to get a first-place vote was rookie pitcher Fernando Valen­zuela of the Los Angeles Dodgers, who was named the NL's Cy Young 
Award winner by the BBWAA last week. 
The only other consecutive win­ners of the NL MVP award were Ernie Banks of the Chicago Cubs in 1958-59 and Joe Morgan of the Cin­cinnati Reds in 1975-76. 
t..~-_ -.""""._'._·.·_·.-~NS_._.·_._--~_-.'-~
...":: .. ._"~---~~_,·-a.-.

~' ..........'~·.:::=~=.:.::::~:;,::.,_:.:.:, ::::: :: ..:...::<~: ·. ••< •.'
I  __  __  
·­ ..........~  

SHARE A CREAMY-LIGHT CUP OF CAFE FRANCAIS. 
Roger Maris ( 1960-1961 ), Mickey Mantle ( 1956-1957), Yogi Berra ( 1954-1955), Hal Newhouser (1944-1945) and Jimmy Foxx ( I932-1933}won consecutive MVP awards in the American League. 
Although seven weeks of play were lost in the strike-shortened 1981 season, Schmidt accumulated impressive statistics. Playing in 102 games, he slammed 31 home runs and drove in 91 runs, leading the major leagues in both categories, while batting .316, the highest average ofhis career. 
It marked the fifth time in eight years that Schmidt has led the majors in homers. 
The 32-year-old third baseman had 19 doubles and two triples among his 112 hits and scored 78 runs. He also stole 12 bases and led the NL in seven offensive categories. 
The 31 homers gave Schmidt 295 for the past eight years, the top production for any major league player over that period. His 48 home runs last year set ·a major league record for third basemen, breaking the mark of 47 set by Hall of Farner Eddie Mathews. 
Montreal catcher Gary Carter was sixth this year with 77 points, trail· ing Schmidt, Dawson, Cincinnati's George Foster, third with 146, Dave Concepcion of Cincinnati, fourth with 108, and Valenzuela, who finished fifth with 90. 

The other top I0 finishers were Dusty Baker of Los Angeles, seventh with 65; Bruce Sutter of St. Louis, eighth with 59; Steve Carlton of Philadelphia, ninth with 41, and Tom Seaver of Cincinnati, Philadel­phia's Pete Rose and Bill Buckner of Chicago, who tied for lOth with 35 each. 
• Bowls 
continuedfrom page 12 

· drastically change. We visited with both institutions (Alabama and USC) today and everyone is aware that we will extend our invitation to one of those two institutions on Saturday. Until then, we will have no further comment." 
Barring some unexpected outcomes on Saturday, the Jan. l picture looks like this: No. I Pitt against Georgia in the Sugar Bowl, No. 2 Clemson and seventh-ranked Nebraska in the Orange Bowl, Alabama vs. the SWC representative -SMU can win the title but is eligible for a bowl game -in Cotton. 
Georgia won the national pionship a year ago by uc•o::••u··~ Notre Dame 17-10 in the Bowl. Alabama whipped Baylor 30­in the Cotton Bowl. 
The Rose Bowl races hold keys to other bowls. Michigan, and Ohio State in the Big Ten Washington State, UCLA and USC in the Pacific-! 0 all in the running for the Roses. Saturday, Michigan meets State, Iowa faces Michigan Washington tackles State and UCLA plays USC. 
If Michigan and Washington win, they will meet in the Bowl.· That probably would send Washington to the Holiday Bowl against the Brigham Young-Utah winner. 
Assuming that everything else falls into place, it would be North Carolina against either Arkansas or Texas in the Gator Bowl and South­ern Mississippi against either BYU ...:_ if the Cougars lose to Utah -or Houston in the Tangerine BowL 
Houston also ltas a shot at the Sun Bowl against Oklahoma. The Sooners had said they would stay home if they lose to Nebraska on Saturday but had a change ofheart. 
There was a strong report that the Bluebonnet Bowl had locked in UCLA and Ohio State, despite a gentleman's agreement among all bowls that only the Rose could match the Big Ten against the Pac­IO. 
The Liberty Bowl has taken Iowa, with Navy now rumored to be the Hawkeyes' opponent. There had been talk of Notre Dame, provided the Irish beat Penn State Saturday and thereby guarantee them. selves a winning season. 
Tennessee and Wisconsin were locked into the Garden State Bowl yesterday. The Hall ofFame has Mis­sissippi-State and doesn't really care who the opposition is because the Bulldogs guarantee a large crowd. Navy had been mentioned as a pos­sibility there but the latest reports say it may be Kansas or even South Carolina, which could wind up 6-6 but would bring loads offans. 
The Peach Bowl will pair West 
.Virginia against the Florida-Florida State winner and Texas A&M is in the Independence Bowl, probably against the Oklahoma State-Iowa State winner. 
·~


Molaritv 
Doonesbury 
rrs CB?Tl/JNJY(7!EAT z~SUR£ 'tW 
70 813 /JKJW/16/A/{/}{ CAN, /)(},IJ,Nt. 
'tW Ai41N, aJ4/J'ER. I REHH!EJ? 

Michael Molinelli 

L/ST£1\1, I h/AAlf TO GET T()(,)qH WITI-1 YOU ... WE'RE 
NDTAFT£R YoV ... WE'RE:. 


A5IO~­AFI?AIPsa {)(JAN&. 
ASICERliJM 7HJV, 7Ha/61i TM IN ~IT,'tWR WfTH MAIN57R£AM 
PPe77Y 6txXJ 5'fAPt. M (j(JfA 01/CF IAJa?RY l/8f/fAJ../5M IN IJ/5­
STRON6 CAMMI6N 5TAFF, 501./0 R/6HT /'DU 15 AR/?AY, rn=BECN 
FINANCIAL BACKI/6, ANO THE ~ fMIIt!jG l.£fT Wf7HJIITA 
t'MI.Y SUPPOIU OF MANY f/1/RTY 


1 Meatjelly poems
The Daily Crossword 
6 Reed 36 Israeli, 10 Field for one 14 Robson 38 Exist 
of films 40 Support 15 Alumnus for birds 16 Castigate 42 Spoil 17 Up 43 Traveler 18 Set forth 45 Bobby of 
as evident hockey 20 Choose 46 Part of a 21 Substantive river 23 Selects 49 Cicatrix 24 Kindof 50 Flee 
collar 52 USSR 26 Staked out leaders 
land tract 54 Rhone 29 Servicemen feeder 32 Receive 56 Phone 
Tuesday's Solutio~_! 
-


AU Rights Reserved 
11/18/81 

ACROSS 35 Of certain 
Wednesday is ''IMPORT NIGHT'' 
at 

Tonight 's special: 


~~~frwrr~g 
9:-30-2:oo_____. 
Garry Trudeau 

Jeb Cashin 
I.., EM ... TN/Ill< l ~AVE 'TO GO TO GRADIJRTE ~Ita:(. 
Campus 
•12: 
15 p.m. -Seminar, "Strategies for Genetic Ex­change and Cloning by· Pseudomonas Bacteria", Ronald H. Olsen, Professor, University of Michigan Medical, Galvin auditorium, Sponsored by Microbiology Department, AJI are welcome 

•4:15 
p.m.-Lecture, "A Year as Anthropologist in Khomeini's Iran", Dr. Erika Fridl and Dr. Reinhold Loeffler, Western Michigan University, 122 Hayes Healy, Sponsored by Sociology and Anthropology Departments, All arc welcome 

•7 
p.m. -Lecture, "Catholicism, The Earthy Religion", Rev. John Mdloh, S.M., Hayes Healy auditorium, Sponsored by The Catholic Inquiry Series, All arc welcome 

•7 
p.m. -Film, "Welfare", Center for Continuing Education Media Center, Sponsored by the Depart· ment of Sociology and Anthropology, Free admis­sion 

•7 
· 9 p.m. -Open Forum on Alcohol, "Question -Alcohol Usc", Flanncr Residence Hall, All :ire welcome, inquiries call 8809 

•7, 
9, II p.m. -Film, "Joe Kidd", Engineering auditorium, Sponsored by Student Union, S 1 ad­mission 

•8 
p.m. -Lecture, "Change In South Africa: How Deep Does It Go?", Gwendolyn M. Carter, Indiana University, Bloomington, Memorial Library Auditorium, Sponsored by Provost Lecture Series, All arc welcome 

•8 
p.m.-Lecture, "The Changing Role ofThrifts", Jonathan Findley, National Savings and Loan League, Center for Continuing Education auditorium, Sponsored by Notre Dame Banking Series, All are welcome 

•8 
p.m. -Abiogenesis Dance, Collective Informal Dance Concert, LaFortune Ballroom, Free admis· 


sion 

Television 
7:00p.m. 
7:30p.m. 
8:00p.m. 
8:30p.m. 
9:00p.m. 
9:30p.m. !O:OOp.m. 
10:30p.m. ll:OOp.m. 
11:30p.m. 
!2:00a.m. 12:30a.m. 

Tonight 
16  MASH  
22  CBS News  
28  Joker's Wild  
34  The MacNeil/lt:hrc:r Jkport  
46  Believer's Voice ofVictory  
16  All In The Family  
22  Family Feud  
28  Tic Tac Dough  
34  Straight Talk  
46  Oral Rubens  
16  Real People:  
22  Mr. Merlin  
28  Greatest American lfc:ro  
34  Survival Special  
46  Lester Sumrall Teaching  
22  WKRP In Cincinnati  
46  The Renewed Mind  
16  Facts OfUfe  
22  Nurse  
28  The Fall Guy  
34  World Special  
46  Today With Lester Sumrall  
16  Love, Sidney  
16  Quincy  
22  Shannon  
28  Dynasty  
34  Inside Story Special Edition:  
President...Mister President...  
46  Calvary Temple  
46  Michiana Today  
16  NewsCentcr 16  
22  22 Eyewitness News  
28  Newswatch 28  
34  The Dick Cavett Show  
46  Praise The Lord  
16  Tonight Show  
22  WKRP/Feature Movie  
28  ABC News Nightlinc  
34  Captioned ABC News  
28  Love Boat  
46  lester Sumrall Teaching  
16  Tomorrow Coast To Coast  
46  The Renewed Mind  

.\lbll'r 
See the 

OZARK MOUNTAIN DAREDEVILS LIVE 
Friday Night at Stepan Center 
SHOW STARTS AFTER THE BASKETBALL GAME 
... 
,{ 
57 AnArden 60 Passable 62 Eat-all 65 Airman who 
died with 
Will Rogers 68 Slack 70 Organic 
compound 71 Waste 
aiiQ!IIfance 72 Gore 73 Actor 

Calhoun 74 -time (never) 75 Hemisemi· demiquavers 
DOWN 1 Hairdo 2 Goof 3 Derrieres 4 Anger 5 Artillery 
piece 
6 USSR secret police 
7 Rodeo mount 8 Pan-Am. org. 9 Timezone 
letters 10 Burning 11 Quahog 12 Price 13 Inspects 19 Worldwide 

org. 22 Singles 25 Twitches 27 Scottish 
YIPs 28 Feign 29 Philippine 
native 30 Worship 31 "-fidells" 33 Package 
delivery 34 Dutch­37 Apres Avril 39 Sins 41 Cheap 44 Laos, 
Burma, etc. 47 Gorilla 48 Turfs 51 Ms Tyson 53 Kreisler's 
instrument 55 Ruhrcity 57 Pitcher 58 Spanish 
lad 59 Swan genus 61 AGraham 63 "-by the 
papers" 64 Obtains 66 Harper 
Valleygrp. 67 Scrap 69 Yoko­

---~ 
~-----~--· ~----------------------------------­
Wednesday, November 18, 1981 -page 12 
All hoops games to be on TV 
TELE-HOOPS -With the exception of friday's ex­hibition match with the Belgrad, Yugoslavia, interna­tional team, every Notre Dame basketball game will be televised this year. But before getting too excited about 
the prospects of blowing off countless evenings of -=----------------­.. studying to watch the Irish, there's a catch -only l 7 of the 27 regular season games will be shown on commer­cial television, only 8 ofthe 1 7 are away games, and only five of the eight are being telecast while school is in allowed only 10 points in their last three games, holding session. two-thirds of the Pentagon (Navy and Air Force) and NBC has earned broadcasting priveleges for the most Georgia Tech to a combint:d total of 525 yards total wanted Irish games this season. NBC will beam both offense ( I 75 yards per game), 2 4 3 yards rushing ( 81­UClA games, from Notre Dame on December 5 and yard average) and 282 yards passing (94-yard average). Pauley Pavilion on February 7. The peacock's cameras In the first six games of the year, the Irish surrendered will also be seen in the ACC on Sunday, February 28 for an average of 313 total yards, 185 on the ground and another Notre Dame-DePaul classic and will venture to 128.6 pa.'>sing. the Silverdome in Pontiac, Michigan for a season-ending Georgia Tech is still the only Irish foe to score in the showdown between Michigan and Notre Dame on first quarter, the Irish outdistancing their foes, 59-3 in March 7. that frame. In fact, Notre Dame has outscored its op­CBS, who ventures full-force into the college basket­ponents in all but the third quarter (30-39), owning a ball broadcast scene this season scene behind the dul­convincing 44-17 advantage the second and 63-40 edge cid tones of Billy Packer (president of the Skip in the fourth quarters. Desjardin fan club), has only gained rights to one Irish NATIONAL POWERS -On the strength ofits recent game this year, the february 20 clash with the South stinginess, the Irish defense is ranked sixth nationally in Carolina Gamecocks. scoring defense, allowing only 11 points per game. Fans With the exception ofthe Kentucky game (which on­could be in for quite a game Saturday, since Penn State's ly will be shown by Kentucky's television network), the defense is rated 18th with 13 points allowed per con­other 1 l Irish games on commercial television will be test, and has given up only three rushing touchdowns beamed by METROSPORTS, the independent network this season. which distributes Irish basketball to outlets around the Likewise, the Nittany Lions are rated 20th in the country, including South Bend. METROSPORTS' top NCAA in rushing, averaging 248.4 yards-per-game. In­offerings include the Virginia game on January 6, both dividually, tailback Curt Warner has rushed for 928 San Francisco battles (January 12 and February 2), yards, while missing better than two games this season. North Carolina State on february 13 and Marquette on Warner, who is 72 yards short of becoming the fifth January 30. Lion rusher in history to top the 1,000-yard mark, is The other l 0 Irish games will be shown on cable ranked sixth in the country with a 132.6 yards-per­television. Th Madison Square Garden-USA network game rushing average and a 156.7-yard all-purpose run· will show the Indiana game on December 1, ESPN will ning average ( includeing rushing, receiving and kick 
Irish Coach Geny Faust says that his team is well preparedfor 
show Seton Hall from the Meadowlands on February 18 returns).
Penn State on Saturday. The game will be Notre Dame'sfirst major 
and the January 23 Maryland game will be offered on Penn State punter Ralph Giacomarro is rated eighth
test since the coaching staffmade majorposition changes. (photo 
subscription outlets nationwide. The remaining seven in the country with a 44.7-yard punting average.
by Rachel Blount) 
games, four before Christmas break, will be beamed to SCORING STREAKS -While the Irish have not been portions of Long Island and Chicago suburbs via shut out in 41-straight games dating back to the 3-0 loss Cablevision. to Missouri at the start of the 1978 season, Penn State A LION'S DEN -The Irish footballers will face Penn has not been blanked in 1 05-straight games since a 14-0
Faust feels ready for 
State for the sixth time this Saturday in a seri t es which loss to Oklahoma in the 1972 Sugar Bowl. began in 1913, and in which a regular season game has The Nittany Lions also have clinched their 43rd con­not been played since 1928. The Irish own a 4-0-1 edge secutive non-losing season, the longest streak in NCAA
Penn State contest 
in the all-time series, and won the last game played be­history. The Irish have accumulated 17-straight non­By KELLY SULLIVAN And the Notre Dame offense will tween the two schools, a 20-9 Gator Bowl victory iri losing seasons, and a win against Penn State could Sports Writer be ready for it's first big test since 1976. Saturday's game kicks offa home-and-home series assure them oftheir 18th. 
the coaches made major renova­which will continue through 1990, with the Nittany EAGER SUBSCRIBERS -Joe Paterno and the Penn 
Some coaches might feel frustra­tions on it following the USC loss. Lions invading Notre Dame Stadium for the first time on State football office must like the high quality ofwriting tion at the thought of playing a Though the Irish have rolled up November 13, 1982. and layout style in The Observer. The Nittany lions foot­ranked opponent for the fifth time in some big scores lately, Faust ack­The Irish hold a 1-0-1 edge in games played at Penn ball office has not one, but two subscriptions to The nine outings, but not Gerry faust. nowledged that it's hard to gauge his State and a 1-0 advantage in games at South Bend, while Observer. However, the Nittany Lions only seem to be 
"You can play easy teams, finish team's improvement against com­winning both games played on neutral fields. interested in reading the paper for half of the year, be­1 1-0 and be sitting on top of the petition like Navy, Geo~gia Tech and The game not only will be shown nationwide on a cause their subscriptions only cover the first semester. world, or you can go out and play Air force. delayed replay basis by METROSPORTS, but the game One wonders how much lockerroom bulletin board tough teams, which is what I'd "It'll be a real challenge to get also will be shown several times during the week on ammunition the lions have gleaned from these pages. rather do," insisted the Notre Dame back to a tough schedule again," he ESPN (just as the Air Force game is being shown this Ifyou're out there Joe, good luck Saturday. coach. admitted. "We've played some week). Of course, it also will be televised live in South BORN TO RUN -Junior· Phil Carter ran for 156 
Maybe that's the reason faust was capable teams the past few weeks, Bend on WNDU-TV, Channel16. yards and two touchdowns at Air force, the second wearing a smile yesterday at his but now we'll see how much we've NOT GIVING AN INCH -The Irish, whose string of two-touchdown day of his career. Carter has now weekly press conference, despite consecutive quarters without allowing a touchdown the fact his 5-4 Irish must face Penn See FAUST, page 9 was broken in the fourth quarter by Air force, have See ITEMS, page 9 State and Miami (Fla.) on the road the next two Saturdays. 
"I consider it a privilege to be able to stand across the field from Joe 
Rumors abound as 
Paterno," he said referring to the 
Nittany lions head coach. "Anytime 
you get to coach against one of the 
bowl bids approach 
mainstays of college football, like a Paterno or a ( Bo) Schembechler, it's By HERSCHEL NISSENSON eliminated the Trojans from the a real thrill." Associated Press Rose Bowl, is extremely attractive, 
But preparing for Penn State isn't especially because of record-setting such a thrill. Faust was asked to list The bowl picture began to clear tailback Marcus Allen. Ifthe Cotton some ofthe problems Paterno's club up yesterday -with the distinct Bowl goes for Southern Cal -and will present. "Whert: do you want possibility that it could become the Trojans are known to covet a trip me to start?" he responded. "They're · more confused than ever after Satur­to Dallas -that would send solid everywhere. Offensively, day's results are in. Especially since Alabama to the fiesta. But the Crim­they're explosive and defensively, the Cotton Bowl stated firmly that it son Tide trounced Penn State 31-16 they're awesome. That pretty well would not make a decision until last Saturday and a rematch is out of sums it up." Saturday. the question. 
He still feels the Lions are one of The fiesta Bowl is waiting for the Alabama also was known to prefer the top teams in the country. despite Cotton Bowl, which, in turn, had the Cotton Bowl. The host team will their two recent losses, and insisted been waiting for the Sugar Bowl, be the Southwest Conference repre­~otre Dame is not catching Penn which Monday picked third-ranked sentative. State on a downward slide. Georgia as its host team over No. 4 Should Texas beat Baylor and 
"I don't care when you play Penn Alabama. A host of other bowls are Southern Methodist defeat Arkansas State -if you're Notre Dame, waiting to see what the fiesta does. on Saturday, Texas will go. If they're going to he ready after seven What the Fiesta Bowl is planning Arkansas beats SMU and Baylor up­losses or seven victories." to do is match I Oth· ranked Southern sets Texas, then it will be Arkansas. 
Quarterback Blair Kiel will he California and No. 13 Penn State, jim Brock, executive vice presi­ready to go after overcoming a bout two of college football's more dent of the Cotton Bowl, said with the flu that hampered his ef­glamorous names. But it all depends Tuesday that his committee would 
fectiveness against Air force. "He on whether the Cotton Bowl takes "make a decision and extend an in­just wasn't full strength," said his Alabama over Southern Cal. vitation Saturday, unless things coach. "We probably kept him in USC, despite last Saturday's loss to 
See BOWLS, page 10
longer than we should have." Wa.'>hington that virtuallly 








