
• • • Bookstore X -page7 

VOL. XV, NO. 131 an mdependent student newspaper serving not.re dame and saint mary's T!ilJRSDAY, APRIL 23, 1981 
Corby Tavern 
ABC renews license 
By Tom Koegel 
St•ntor StaffReporter 
The St. Joseph County Alcoholic Beverage Commis­sion renewt·d Corby Tavern's liquor license yesterday. County ABC Chairman Joseph Dcrda termed the renewal "a chance for Corby's, as well as other taverns in the neighborhood, to straighten out the situation." 
Mr. and Mrs. Harold Rowley, owners of Corby Tavern, read from a lt:tter to the City Attorney's office outlining a five point plan intended to "improve the general quality of life in the Northeast Neighborhood for all ofits citizens, students included." 
The ABC indicated that the degree of implementa­tion of tht· plan will weigh heavily in its deCision on Corby's li<:ense renewal next year. Corby's must again appear before: the board because of the arrests ofeight St. Mary's women and a Corby's bartender on January :W, 19Hl. 
A liquor lkensc is generally rcnewt·d automatically unless the tavern is charged with liquor law violations or shows other irregularities on its record. 
The Rowleys agreed to the plan in a conversation Tuesday with Assistant City Attorney James Masters. It includes efforts in the areas of greater crowd control, patron identification (including the requirement oftwo photo IDs from all customers), litter clean-up, the opening of new lines of communication between all concerned parties, and in specific the implementation of City Councilman Lew McGann's proposal for a per­manent forum. 
The forum will include members of the Northeast Neighborhood Council, the City Attorney's office, the University of Notre Dame, a city councilman from the 4th District (currently McGann), and a Notre Dame Off­Campus srudent representative. 
"We arc absolutely sincere about protecting our in­vestment and protecting the residents of the Northeast neighborhood," Harold Rowley said. "We arc going to do everything so that we can come before this board nc::xt yt:ar in an up-beat fashion. We want to identify and solve problems on an internal basis." 
According to Arthur Quigley, president ofthe North­cast Neighborhood Council, "That's just what we have wanted for three years now." 
Assistant City Attorney Masters was out of town for the meeting, but City Attorney Richard Hiii spoke, emphasizing that "the city's position is not to put anyone out of business, but to see that what needs change is changed." 

Saint Mary's 
Duggan denies McKee tenure 
By MARY AGNES CAREY quirements for tenure are divided societies in one's discipline and Satnt Mary's Execulil't' Editor into three categories. receiving honors indicative ot Category l includes publishing professional recognition in one's Saint Mary's College President _in the field ofresearch or teaching, discipline. John M. Duggan hao; decided ro up­presenting papers at meetings of McKee is the consulting editor 
hold tht· original decision to deny prolessional societies, designing of the second editon ( I 980) of tenure to Dr. Michael McKee, seminars and/or workshops for "Social Problems," a text he co-Sociology department chairman. professional meetings, holding of­
See TENURE, page 4
Duggan could have intervened ffice in national professional In the Committee on Rank and Tenure's Feb. 23 decision to deny McKee tenure, but instead notified 
StudentSenate meets
McKee on March 26 that the com­
mittee's decision would stand. 
Duggan had previously notified 
with Pace on ho,using
McKee, Sociology department 
fa<:ulty, and Saint Mary's Faculty taurants, and other activites. Dr.
By DIANE DIRKERS 
Assembly members that a review Hofman stated the objective ofso­
NewsStaff
of the case would continue until cial improvement as "the univer­
April 20. sity making arrangements to offer 
McKee, who appealed the Com­On and off campus housing attractive alternatives to drinking mittee of Rank and Tenure's problems and a lack ofsocial space and to have places which would be original decision to Duggan, is now were the main issues discussed at conducive to more responsible appealing his ca~e to a Faculty As­last night's student senate meeting. drinking for those over 21." sembly grievance committee. The The discussion of these Problems concerning dorm life grievance committee can recom­problems was conducted in con­were attributed to overcrowding. mend that Duggan either grant junction with the Student Affairs I A lack of social and study space, McKee tenure or establish a dif­division ofthe P. A. C. E. (Priorities primarily in some of the older ferent committee (other than the and Commitments for Excellence) dorms such as Morrissey and original Committee on Rank and committee, whose membership in­Lyons, was pointed out as chronic Tenure) to review McKee's ca.~e. dudes: Don Murday, student body problem. It was suggested that 
McKee stated that he "regards president; • Tara Kenney, vice­some of the dorms with inade­the decision as unfortunate" and president; Dr. Emil Hofman, dean quate party space be allowed to adds that he "still very much wants of Freshman Year of Studies; and have section parties -a system to remain at Saint Mary's." Fr. Van Wolvlear, director of Stu­which works well in Howard Hall, 
dent Affairs. which has no party room. 
The purpose of the Student Af­Overcrowding in the dining
In student evalua­
fairs I division is to "solicit from halls, particularly the north hall, the undergraduate student body was also brought to attention.
tions, McKee bas 
perceptions and ideas regarding The Senate also discussedconsistently scored student affairs." Dr. Hofman student-related services which in­stressed that the "emphasis is on cluded the shortages of infirmary
higher than the 
Identification of problems to es­physicians and difficulties in attain­average rating tablish priority status, not to at­ing job interviews at the Place­
tempt to come up with solutions ment Bureau. 
at this time." The student security 
On April 3, McKee wa~ to have Don Murday summarized the relationship described by Murday been recommended by his depart­priorities of the Student Senate as as students viewing " security as ment faculty members to continue -such: I. social life, 2. overcrowding more of a police force than a a~ department chairman for his and its effects on dorm life, 3. protection force" is also a problem third (two years each) term if he services ranging from medical to that the Senate will deal with in the had received tenure. llnder the security to placement." future. current decision, Saint Mary's will The topic of social life dealt A written statement specifying employ McKee for another year. mainly with the need for a student the exact priorities the Student 
According to the "Guidelines for center to supplement present Senate feels should be improved Evaluating Scholarly Activities," facilities at La Fortune, and also to upon will be compiled by Dr. Hof­distributed to each department encourage a private developer to man, who will later report to the chairman on Sept. 12, 1979. the re-build a "campus row" ofshops, res-central P. A. C. E. committee. 
ByJOHN DANISZEWSKI 
Associated Press Writer 
PHILADELPHIA (AP) Dominic Manno made a mistake: He wished, in public, on paper, for the death of the president of the United States. Now he worries that someone may l:>e wishing the same for him. 
"It's a sobering thought. There arc 20 people out there that want me dead," the 23-year-old Univer­sity of Pennsylvania senior said in discussing the threats he has received since the appearance in print of his college newspaper column commenting on the assas­sination attempt on President Reagan. 
"You don't worry about the people who call. It's the people that don't caJI. They worry you," he said, shaking a head framed by curly black hair and a beard. 
In the weekly column he wrote for The Daily Pennsylvanian, Man­no ~aid he set out to portray the national outpouring of grief and horror over the Reagan attack as "somewhat hypocritical" when so many others suffer violence every day. 
"When the news first broke with the report that Reagan had not bt·cn wounded, my first rea<:tion wa.~. 'Too bad he missed. That's the result ofsending an amateur w do a professional job," Manno wrote in the April 1 edition. "Then with the news that he had be~:n shot, my reaction had changed to, 'I hope he 
dies.'" 

Later In the column, Manno sug­gested some people may be so frustrated with ele<:tion results that they use bullets to cancel out ballots. 
"A lot of people feel that way about the system," he concluded. "Including me." 
The words seemed to pain him as he recalled the chain ofevents in an interview. "It was a first reac­tion. It was a gut reaction to the news and it wasn't well thought 
See REGRETS, page 4 



Thursday, April23, 1981 -page 2


News Brie/§ 
c===~======~==============================~ 
by The Observer and The Associated Press 
White House press secretary james s. Brady, wounded in last month's assassination attempt on President Reagan, underwent surgery in Washington last night as doctors attempted to close a passage permitting air into his brain. "Everything is OK," a spokesman said. Rich Ellis, a spokesman at George Washington Uni­versity Hospital, described the operation, which began at 7 p.m. as "non-urgent surgery." The surgery came a few hours after doctors inserted two needles into Brady's head to release air trapped inside his brain, hospital spokesman Dr. Dennis O'Learysaid. O'Learysaid the air passage, from Brady's sinuses into his brain, probably was the result of the bullet which pierced his skull inthe March 30 attack on Reagan as the presidential party left a Washington hotel. O'Leary said the inser­tion ofthe needles amounted to a minor procedure that was not emer­gency action. "I don't think he's in any danger," O'Leary $lid. The hospital spokesman said, "Everything is going OK," adding that Brady has "been stable throughout the whole procedure." -AP 
Attorneys for a 17-year-old youth charged in the death of a South Bend Tribune reporter have asked that his trial be moved from St. joseph County, preferably to Fort Wayne. Ronald K. Whitehead is charged in the Dec. I 7 strangulation death ofSouth Bend Tribune reporter Mary Collins Kretschmar, 26, who was five months pregnant at the time ofher death. Whitehead appeared Tues­day in Superior Court and entered a plea of innocent by reason of insanity to the charge. A hearing on the change of venue motion was 
. set for May II. At the request ofWhitehead's attorney,judge Robert L. Millerjrsaid he would appoint two psychiatrists to examine the youth and testify at his trial. In the change ofvenue motion, Dennis Brennan, Whitehead's attorney, said the youth cannot get a fair and impartial trial in St. joseph County or I 0 surrounding counties because "of in­terference by the news media." The motion said "certain news media have continued to blast out their editions of the evidence as they interpret it." Mrs. Kretschmar, 26, was stranged in the Tribune's Mish­awaka office where she was preparing to cover a school board meeting. Whitehead, who worked cleaping the office for his father's janitorial service, called police. Whitehead, originally charged in juvenile court but later transferred to adult court, told police he heard the woman screaming and ran upstairs from the basement ofthe office to find a man standing over the body. He said the man fled the office after the two struggled. Whitehead has been t held in custodysince the night ofthe murder. -AP 
President Reagan says he's still suffering pain from his gunshot wound March 30, and while the episode seems unreal to this day, he wonders, too, why he wasn't attacked "27 times before." In an interview yesterday, his first with reporters since the assassina­tion attempt outside a Washington hotel, Reagan disclosed that his first thought when he heard the gunfire ;was "to take a look" around. But the nearest Secret Service agent, he noted "had a different idea." When he finally realized he had been wounded, he said, it was "the most paralyzing pain, as if someone hit me with a hammer." T~at 
' sensation did not occur until he was in his limousine and speedmg away from the scene, the president said. "It still seems unreal," ~e said. Reagan said he continued t6 suffer from what doctors t~ld htm ":as "one of the longest enduring discomforts" because of hts type of m­j_l.lry. "It doesn't go away," he sa~Jhere is that pain." -AP 
A group of striking union miners and independent coal truckers opened fire on·each other yesterday in eastern Kentucky and four men were shot and wounded, authorities said. All were reported hospitalized in satisfactory condition. The shootout on the 27th day of a strike by the nation's I60,000 United Mine Workers came as a convoy of I 0 coal trucks headed for a non-union mine that pickets have been trying to close in Belfry, Ky. Truckers and pickets accused each other ofstarting the gun battle on U.S. Route II9. State troopers, who converged on the scene with riot guns, said the injured men were taken to Appalachian Regional Hospital in South William­son, Ky. It was the latest in a series of violent incidents in,eastern Kentucky, where a number ofnon-union truckers and coal companies have continued to operate despite picketing. -AP 
"S"dn1 ey ShOtt," a prime-time senes· planned by NBC for broadcast in the fall, is based on a pilot movie with a gay leading character -though the network says homosexuality never was in­tended to be the focus of the plot. "One might presume that he is (homosexual)," Irv Wilson, an NBC programming executive, said Tuesday. "He talks in the movie about a relationship he once had with anotlter man." Tony Randall, an Emmy winner for "The Odd Couple" on ABC in the mid-'70s has been cast as Shorr, has on several occasions described the character he·plays as homosexual. "When I saw the script for the movie," said Newton Dieterofthe Gay Media Task Force, "I was pleased to see this warm, sympathetic character, clearly gay, shown in a positive light. When the story was developed for the series, his homosexuality became incidental. The issue arises nonetheless in an atmosphere ofincreasing pressure on the networks from the Coali· tion for Better Television and similar groups concerned with sex and Yiolence on TV. The Rev. Donald Wildmon, head of the National Federation for Decency and a leader ofthe Coalition for Better Televi­sion, said, "All we know is what we read in the papers," but added: "I think that NBC will have a lot of trouble getting sponsors for « program like that, at the full rate. I know they will." -AP 
Windy with showerslikely and highs in the upper 5os to low 60s. Cloudy with a 30 percent chance ofshowers at night. Lows in the upper 30s to around 40. Partly cloudy and cool Friday. Highs in the mid 50s. -AP 
Protest ·stirs n~stalgia 
Rumblings ofdiscontent are finally being felt around campus, as forces opposing Ronald Reagan as this year's commencement speakergain momentum. Students and faculty have met to form separate committees to protest what they feel is a compromise in the Univer­sity's commitment to social concerns and ideals. 
But will these rumblings ever produce anything other than noise? Sadly, it appears that those who are spearheading the effort lack the desire to produce tan­gible results. Their goals .are vague and undefined, and they do not wish to disrupt the hallowed ceremony. They are content, in the words ofone anti-Reaganite, to "do some consciousness raising." Ah-the proverbial buzzwords uttered by people who have a gripe and want ~o air it without proposing a more viable al­ternative. 
This group held a meeting Tuesday night, at which they attempted to raise the consciousnesses of the 18 persons who attended. One can only wish them good luck. At Notre Dame, it seems, students want to raise either books or beers -not consciousnesses. 
All this brings to mind memories of the Notre Dame of old. Ten years ago or so, students boycotted, peti­tioned, protested and picketed until this campus was one of the hotter beds ofdiscontent in the nation. The Vietnam War was, to be sure, a great rallying point for young, concerned, Catholic students ofthat period and the draft loomed like a dark cloud in the futures ofmany would-be reformers. 
Today all that is changed. The average student does not care who speaks at commencement or who gets an honorary degree -as long as he or she gets a degree of his or her own. This apathy -inspired partly by a desire to maintain the status quo so late in the college career and partly by a desire to uphold the eternally sacred graduation ceremony -is a quite insurmountable obstacle for these 18. It is a shame that the students can hope to accomplish little else than a protest sash worn in addition to the standard commencement regalia. And ifthe numbers do not increase, those 18 will not create much ofa stir in a sea ofthousands. 
Concerned students recognize this uncaring attitude among their peers. Group member Will O'Brien feels that the effort has "a lot of potential support" from stu­dents. He bemoans the fact that "there's so much working against us." The group, which is headeq by stu­dent Katie Foy, plans to combat this with a public con­cert and rally on the South Quad next Wednesday to increase student interest. · 
This gung-ho attitude at the outset is commendable, 
but O'Brien says, "We just want to present our point of 
view." He does not deny the desirability of a total 
Reagan boycott, but terms it "unrealistic" and 
«inappropriate." This attitude is sure to undermine the 
effectiveness ofthe effort. 
The struggle aside, the issue remains. It is, ofcourse, 
pure hypocrisy for this socially concerned administra­
tion to invite the president here, give him an outlet to 
harp on his flailing proposals, and then to give him an 
honorary degree. We boycott Campbell's, Libby's and 
Nestle's because they supposedly exploit the poor, at 
home and abroad. The Hesburgh administration has of­
ten cast aspersions on so-called tightfisted, imperialistic 
Republican policies. But, if Reagan c_an garner NO a 
~The_Ohseryer_ 
Design Editor................... Deirdre Murphy 
Design Assistants ......................... Patty Fox 
Kathy Crossett 
Layout Staff ........................ Randy Rentner 
Typesetter .......................................... Ronjoe 
News Editor....................................... Higgins 
Copy Editors ............................ Pam Degnan 
Tom Melsheimer 
natures Layout.............. Gregory Swiercz 

front page somewhere, some rich alumnus or two is sure to see it and send an endowment or two as he bursts with pride. 
Perh;1ps a monetary reward can atone for a lapse in values -at least where Fr. Hesburgh and Co. is con­cerned. I must admit that it certainly pleases me that Reagan would humble himself to come here -almost as much, that is, that it amazes me that Fr. Hesburgh would humble himselfto invite him. 
The organizers of this movement deserve a great amount of credit for their dedication to this venture. They have promised to make this as painless as possible. A "quiet" and "n:spectable" protest, they vow. They have been besiegc:d, however, by callers who threaten them with all sorts of bodily harm. They have received letters urging them to forego their plans -since the plans are not "respectable." 
One must admit that it is appalling that only I 8 came forward to protest this issue at an informal meeting. What will the attrition rate be when they have to "go public?" Will those who claim to be concerned -and they are many judging from reader response along this vein -ever go 0111 record in their protest? 
All this apathy sttirt. a kind ofnostalgia for the old days. They may have been tumultuous, but people at least cared. At most they did something about it. 
Observer notes_______, 
The Observer is always looking for new reporters. Ifyou like to wriite, visit our offices on the third floor of LaFortune or· in the basement of Regina Hall at Saint Mary's and talk to one of our news editors. They'll be glad to help you get started. 
The Observer sports department is voting for the male and female varsity athletes ofthe year from the Notre Dame/S~tint Mary's community. Complete results will be printed in The Observer on Friday, May I. The first annual Edward W. Krause Award will be presented at halftime ofthe Blue-Gold Game. 
a a 
•
' • • Buy 
' 
0f~S€RV€R 


Fluid Fu l:anoe Rental $12.00 per conoe includes lronspo to starling points 
Bristol In. o1n St. Joseph River 

Sports Copy Editors ........... Skip Desjardin Michael Ortman Supplement Layout ....... Michael Ortman 
• Skip Desjardin Typist .......................................... Cindy jones Lackadaisical ....................... Bruce Oakley ND Day Editor........................ Megan Boyle SMCDayEditor............... Mary Kay Hogan Ad Design ............................. Woody & Fran Photographer ........................... Mike Tuohy Guest Appearances .............. Bone Bourret 
(All kneel) RobSimari Many Bookstore Groupies Seal Squad & the Gossips 
The Observer !USPS 598 920) 1s published Monday through Fnday except dunng exam and vacat1on penods The Observer IS published by the students of Notre Dame and Sa1nt Mary's College Subscnpt1ons may be purchased for $30 per year ($ t 5 per semester) by wntmg The Ob­server, P 0 Box 0. Notre Dame, In­diana 46556 
The Observer 1s a member of the Assoc1ated Press All reproductiOn nghts are reserved 

(219)848-4279 


-----------~------------------~-­
The Observer Thursday, April23, 1981 -page 3 
Radar planes 
Israelvows sale-protest 
tEL AVIV, Israel (AP) -Israel vowed yesterday to fight the sale of American radar planes to Saudi Arabia, claiming the all-seeing eyes in the sky would place an un­bearable burden on Israeli defense. 
A government statement expressed "profound regret and unqualifit·d opposition" to the White Housc:'s decision, an­nounced Tuesday, to sell five AwACS planes to Saudi Arabia. 
Deputy Defense Minister Mor­dechai Zippori called it "a very, very unpleasant decision" which Israel would appeal to the Reagan administration and to U.S. public opinion -a clear signal Israel's combative lobby on Capitol Hill will try to block the sale. 
Observers saw the statement's 

wording as a sign that, after weeks 
of debate over whether to take on 
Washington just before national 
elections here, the government 
has opted for a confrontation. 
It may have been emboldened 

by word from the White House 
that Congress' approval won't be 
sought until after the june 30 Is­
raeli elections. Senate Majority 
Leader Howard Baker Jr., R-Tcnn., 
had urged the administration to postpone sending the plan to Congress until then, hoping op­position to the sale would abate. 
The delay enables Prime Minis­ter Menachem Begin to act tough toward Reagan without risking a prestige blow if the deal is pushed through during the election cam­paign. political analysts in Israel said. 
Zippori said the sale of five AWACS, Airborne Warning and Control Systems, planes, plus a~­vanced gear for 62 F-1 5 jets Saudi Arabia has on order, arc launching an arms race Israel could barely af­ford. 
He said he believes the jcwsish state could find ways to deal with the long-distance surveillance planes, but "it will plac_e a heavy burden on our security forces and we are reaching a stage where that burden is becoming too heavy to bear." 

Israeli military experts do not show much worry about the fight­ing capability of the Saudi army, which ha.~ only a quarter ofIsrael's manpower and less warplanes and tanks than other, more formidable enemies Israel has defeated In past wars. 
But the AWACS planes are seen here a.~ a flying nightmare -mobile radar stations which can scan every square yard of Israel and monitor every aerial movement from light airplanes to jumbo jets. 
In the view ofan Israeli aviation strategist, the AWACS planes nul­lify the basis of Israel's defense ­fast, deva.~tating pre-emptive air strikes before Arab ground forces can rally. 
A defense expert says that had the Arabs possessed AWACS planes in 1967, Israel would not have been able to prepare its air blitz un­observed, and the six-day_ war would have been a lot different. If Israel had shot down a prying AWACS plane, it would have been accused of commiting the hostile act that stared the war, he said. 
White House spokesman Larry Speakes said in Washington that the arms deal is intended to help counter "the Soviet threat in the Middle East" and has pledged the administration remains committed to Israel's efense. 

Peter Walsh discusses current issues in South Africa after film presentation. (Photo by Mike Tuohy.) 
Liquor license confuses SB police officials 
By DAVID SARPHIE 
StaffReporter 
Authorities at both the South Bend Pollee Department and St. joseph County Sheriff Department expressed confusion yesterday over an approval for. a liquor license request needed for this evening's An Tostal Beer Garden. Although the Indiana Alchollc and Beverage Commission has already approved the An Tostal Commit­tee's request, neither the chief of pollee nor a spokesman for the sherift's department could verity that the request had been signed. 
"I haven't seen the application cross my desk." South Bend Pollee Chief Dan Thompson said. "In fact, I've nf'ver heard of -what do you call it? -An Tostal. However, if the activity is being held outside our jurisdiction (on the Saint Mary's campus), I'm not so sure I even have to sign it." 
A spokesman for the ABC disagreed. "To grant a request for a liquor license, we must have the signatures ofthe police chiefofthe nearest municipality, the county sheriff, and a member of the local ABC board," she explained. "In the case of the recent request, this has already been done, and it has been approved." 
Although the St. joseph County Sheriff wa.~ on vacation and not. available for comment, a spokes­
Psych211A changes 
An important notice to Fall Psych 21 I A PSI Students: The time listed In the course schedule for Fall (I p.m. MWF) wa.~ Incorrect. The correct time Is 9 a.m. MWF. 
FREE BEER 

CORBY STREET KIDS SOFTBALL SMOKER FRIDAY 7pm $3.00 WEST SID~EMO CLUB 
617 S· WARREN 
~off Western Ave.) ROCK::::::::::::~== 
WITH THE PAGES 
man for his office was uncertain whether the request had been signed. "We've been having some problems with activities out there, and I know the sheriff was reluc­tant to sign the request,"she said. 
Despite the confusion among the two police departments, the chairman of the An Tostal Ex­ecutive Staff, Mitch Feikes, was op­timistic about the Beer Garden. He emphasized that additional security will be present for the ac­tivity. "We've hired two St. Joseph police to patrol the inside, and Saint Mary's security will be on the outside." he said. "It will be fun but well-controlled." 
The Beer Garden will open at 8 
p.m. tonight at Saint Mary's. Eddie O'Neale will provide entertain­ment. 


~~\1 

Artists, matketlng majots, 01 others••• ••Jf you find this ad lacking 01 would like to use yout talents productively 

Apply fot Publicity Commission 
fot the coming yeat 


layout petsonnel Advertising coordinators Poster & flyet distributors 

paid position 

Leave name \ &qualifications with Sectetaty, 2nd floot Lafortune by April 24th 
CELEBRATE AN lOSTAl WEEK WITH 
LOCK'S LIQUORS 277-3611 ' ~... ~ ~ 
Miller lite &a I case 24 cans $7.89j 

::;Kamchatka Vodka 
Strohs .•.• I liter $4.69 I case · 24 cans ~: Budweiser 
.Bellows Gin 
I case · 24 cans
I liter $5.19 
Busch 

iPhiladelphia Blended Whiskey I case · 24 cans : I liter $5.77 · 
Michelob 
t 
:~ 
}
$7.~ $7.4~ 

$7.19 ' t 
I 



-------------·-------------~ 
The Observer -Continued from page 1 Thursday,April23, 1981 -page 4 
• • • Regrets 
Manno's parents at their south

continuedfrom page 1 
Philadelphia home. It was their 

out or rational," he said. first news oftheir son's column. 
"Later, I was surprised I ever felt "What the hell did you write?" that way. I let my hatred for Ronald asked Manno's mother, Elizabeth, Reagan the politician overwhelm when she finally got through to the my respect for the man, which paper. She was "pretty shook up" everyone deserves." by the phone calls, which her hus­
Coming so soon after the March band, Francis, described as 30 attempt on Reagan's life, the abusive: "They'd say 'Bang, bang, words set off a blas't of criticism you're dead' or 'Bang, bang, you're from readers. The fallout is still next." Two weeks after the ' raining down on him, his family column, she went into the hosptal and the university. for a day ofblood pressure tests. 
Manno knew something was Within days, Manno and his 
amiss when he arrived at the editors were deluged with inter­
newspaper office the afternoon of view requests. The column was 
April I. condemned in Philadelphia 
"The phones were ringing off newspaper editorials and letters to 
the hook, which is unusual at that the editor. Newsweek magazine 
time of day," he said. "The callers reported this week that first lady 
would say something and then Nancy Reagan was so enraged by 
hang up. A lot of them were Manno's death wish for her hus­
obscene -your standard impos­band that she asked Attorney 
sible anatomical suggestions." General William French Smith 
Then, just hours after the whether the student could be 
Citizens concerned about Central America met for a Panel Discussion in Haggar Hall. (Photo by
column appeared, two Secret punished. The White House has 
Mike Tuohy.) •

Service agents appeart>d at the denied Mrs. Reagan made any re­
offices of the 96-year-old, five-day­quest for prosecution. 
a-week paper. They told Manno By the weekend, Manno's uncle, 
they were checking his back­also named Dominic Manno, had 
ground and wanted to know changed to an unlisted telephone 
. Tenure
,

whether he was a person who number. Manno's younger brother • • would act out violent ideas. When was taunted for being related to "a they left, they said they'd be talking communist." to the U.S. attorney. Later, Penn president ·, Sheldon continuedfrom page 1 scholarly subjects both on and off the department's social work 
"Scenes from bad prison movies Hackney issued a statement calling campus and writing reviews of ;>rogram. McKee currently serves 
flashed through my head," Manno Manno's ideas "abhorrent" but authored in 1975, which has been 
scholarly books. as a member ofthe Area 2 Advisory said. affirming his right to express such adopted at over 500 colleges. McKee has received 11 grants Council, State Agency on Aging Callers then began reaching opinions in a free society. McKee has also written 20 sociol­(seven in the last four years) and and also serves on the Board of ogy articles and reviews published has written reviews ofbooks in the Directors for the IntercollegiateJt in 11 different publications. He has sociological field as well as Council on Aging. He has also attended 46 professional meetings publishing the text "Social served on the Board of Directors** SMC ~ RD SERIOR RIGHT OUT1 ( 14 in the last four years), Problems." for the Indiana Academy of Social 
*FOR LADIES ONLY! *
* 
presented papers 18 times ( 4 in 


Category 3 consists ofdesigning S<:·ience.

* 
the 
last four years), has served asJt Direct from Hawaii and Las Vegas new programs, receiving grants McKee has participated in the* 

lt in their grand homecoming to Michiona .. · chairman eight times (three in the not directly relatt:d to scholarly ac­college curriculum committee, 
last four years) and discussant six tivity, giving lectures in the area of Pre-Cana counseling program, 
times (three in the last four years) one's academic discipline for non­alumnae phone-a-thon, campus 
at professional conferences in professional organizations, being ministry, urban plunge, interna­
sociology. chosen an officer and/or board tional host family work and the




iFA~T 
Category 2 deals with engaging member ofa local organization on South Bend Community School
* in ongoing research, having one's the basis of expertise in one's Corporation advisory committee work cited by other scholars, academic discipline and enrolling as well as various television ap­receiving grants in support of in conferences, courses and semi­pearances and speaking engage­
scholarly activity, preparing nars in one's discipline. ments.

iF/tEDDY * * * 
laboratory manuals and other
* McKee has developed new In college student evaluations,
*... * kinds of teaching tools, attending courses for his department, has as­McKee has consistently scored 
meetings of professional societies, sisted in the hiring of new depart­higher than the average rating
: & The Playboys! 
*

* attending professional workshops, ment faculty members and has given to either a course (averaging
+ "ca class act of singing, comedy 

giving invitational lectures on
* * 
and dance for thelodles" * worked towards accreditation for of.50 over the college average) 01"
* 




~~OMMUNICATION &THEATR~~ (The 6-foot Submachine {
show In the nation'*********************** 


{ Submarine Sandwich { } munchout. Sign up }? Saturday at 1:45 } { near Stepan. {
COMMITMENT 
::~: The first 32 people {
.·.· '11 • • .·.·
::: w1 part1c1pate ::::
to ::: Sign up early :::: 
CARING 
\ 

AS AN AIR FORCE NURSE 
A new world of nursing opens when you become an Air Force nurse. 
You are committed to the.welfare of service members and their dependents. With worldwide er.loyment and travel opportunities, you'll receive a highly competitive pay and compen•tion package. 
If you're pursuing a bachelor of science degree in nursing and are qualified, you could 
I

become a member of the USAF Nurse Corps through Air Force ROTC. You may also 
be eligible for an AFROTC two-year nursjng scholarship which pays full tuition, lab 
I ~.-·-..·~"""·'=~· _.: ,:,_,;~

and incidental fees, books, plus $100 a l}lonth tax·free. Dunng the last two years of 
~L......~rlSte:= 2 ,..,. J
I

AFROTC, you will receive $100 a month tax·free during the school year even if not on 
I 
This coupon entitles you to a 80% 
scholarship . 
!IAVINGS on one cassette copy. The 

So while working for your degree, consider the advantages of Air Force ROTC and 
prices listed below include the ·the exciting world of an Air Force nurse. 
Hezound Copy Cassette!®
I 
I 
CA88. COPY BllG. Wl'fH UliiGrH rnu: PBICJl COUPON 
30 min I m~n. S2.19 11.011 60 min. 2 mm. S2.89 U.48I 90min. 3m~n. S379. 11.811 120'min. 4 m~n S4 79 18.:59 
I The Hammes. Notre 
I Dame Bookstore 

I ~D® Coupon.Explresl
BOTC 

L ~~NG....::~--!!:!~ 1~1 J
Gateway to a great way of life. 
! SERIOB RIGHTS: ** ! Thursday May 7 and *
* 
! Thursday May 14 *
* 
:_pardner's Saloon • Downtown South Bend *
*
* 
Limited advance tickets on sale 
* 
now at River City Records featured on: * 50970 U.S. 31 Borth • Phil Donahue * 
• ABC 20/20 Jt-
Admission $8.00 Call 277-4242 

• Today Show_ ~ l
for further information 
• Time Mogozme * The hoHest male go-go • Playboy M99ozine 
instructor (averaging of .27 over college average). Both ratings are also the highest received in the 

T!::fURSDAY NI~HT FILM SERlE? -­
The Tree of the Wooden Clogs Dir. by Ermanno 
Sociology department.
Olmi (Italy) 1978 
Both Duggan and Horning

The Golden Prize Winner at Cannes in 1978 and of the Best 
refused to comment on any aspect

Foreign Film Award by the New York Critics Film Circle is 
ofthe McKee case.

a mute testimony of the inadequacy of such honors. It is, simply, a great work of art, suffused with a poetic narrative , 
::::::::::::::::::::=:=:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:::::::::~::: 
which seems to grow from the Lombard earth in which it is set. 
Thursday, Apri/23 MUSEUM OF ART 
HU!lGBY? 

.~rOTA BIG MOUTH?
7:30 pm admission $1.00 
} An Tostal/Badin Hall }
sponsored by the ND-SMC 
:~~: presents: :~:: 

The Observer Thursday, April23, 1981-page 5 
An Tostal continues today 
By DAVID SARPHIE A variety of interesting events The championship match-up of StaffReporter are scheduled for Frivolous Friday. the Bookstore basketball tourna­Students interested in anything ment will take place behind the 
Over 60 events arc scheduled from jello tossing and mattress ACC at 2 p.m. on Serene Sunday. for the 14th annual An Tostal racing to pie eating and face The finals of the frisbee competi· celebration. The week-long spring shaving should be on the South tion. will occur during halftime of festival, which opened on Tuesday Quad tommorrow afternoon. the game. with the An Tostal Open golf Sunny Saturday begins with an Feikes was optimistic about the tournament will conclude Sunday early morning road rally. The week's activities. "Everybody's. with th~ championship game of Fourth Annual An Tostal Road Run done a real good job organizing the Bookstore Ba.'!ketball. begins at I 0 a.m. and Includes runs festivities," he said. Both Jim 
The An Tostal staff added four ofthree and six miles. The popular McDonnell and Mary O'Donnell new activities to the 1981 chariot procession and chariot (the directors ofStudent Activities schedule. Sixty people teed off for races begin at the mud pits at I at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's, the first annual golf tournament, p.m. The finals of the mud vol­respectively) were very 
while over 600 people have leyball competition will follow im­cooperative. I think it's going to splashed around the Rockne pool mediately. turn out real well." over the past few weeks In in­nertube waterpolo competition. 
Only a select few are still alive in the Mass Assassin game, "a 

Man exposes himself 
glorified game of freeze-tag where everyone gets to be ajames Bond." The Angela Athletic Facility will be 
to female students 
the scene for the first annual Talent Show tonight, which Includes the 
ByJIM McCLURE According to the two women,best of the many entertainers from News Staff the dispatcher who took downthe campuses of Notre Dame and their description of the man andSaint Mary's. 
A man exposed himself to two his vehicle, seemed upset that theyThe expense of additional Saint Mary's students in the could not provide the license platesecurity forced the An Tostal com­parking lot ofCampus View Apart­number. He did not a.'ik for themittee to drop the carnival from 
ments on April I5. women's names, but told themthis year's schedule. "There was a someone would be sent to checklot of risk involved In holding the The two seniors were ·leaving on the incident.
carnival," said Mitch Feikes, chair­the apartment complex in their car Corporal ). McCullum of the
man of the An Tostal Executive near the southwest entrance at ap­South Bend Police Department
Committee. "The event itselfmade proximately 10:30 p.m. when a said that the license plate numbermoney, but we lost money on the man In another vehicle pulled is essential to identifying an ex­additional security that was neces­alongside them as if to ask for hibitionist. Otherwise, McCullumsary." directions. When the man gained said "We'd have to be right thereI500 CO·eX tickets will . be their attention he slowly opened when it happened to be able toavailable for today's activities at his door halfway and then closed it catch the guy."
Saint Mary's. A picnic and all the after exposing himself He was McCullum added that securitytraditional picnic games will high­naked except for a long-sleeved 
problems at Campus View are

lighttht• evening activities. For on­brown plaid shirt. 
usually referred to the Saintjoseph

ly 50 c~nts, students wlll have the 
The man was described a.'i a 
County Police since it falls within

opportunity to have their friends 
white male in his late 30's with 
their jurisdiiction. He also pointedthrown In jail during the day's ac­

brown hair thinning on top, a thick 
out that taking down complain·tivities. l.ater in thc evening, stu· 

brown mustache, and small 
tants' names "wouldn't be that im­dents will pile on top of each 

almond-shaped eyes. The vehicle 
portant for an exposure case."

other's lap In an attempt to set a 
was described as metallic-blue

a SaintJoseph County Police were
new world record In that event. 
Gremlin with a white body stripe 
unavailable for comment.

Festivities will continue into the and heavily rusted doors. 
The experience has not dimmed

night at the Beer Garden. 
The women quickly left the the two women's view of off­entrance and drove to The Com­campus living. One of the women mons bar, 826 N.Eddy St, from said, "I still feel pretty safe out where they contacted the South here. We lock doors and windows
SMCelects 
Bend Police Department. but that's normal for anybody." 
hallofficers 

By TRACEY PERRY 

News Staff 
PUT WINGS ON 
In a second run-offelection, resi­

YOUR COLLEGE 
dents of Saint Mary's Holy Cross and Augusta Halls elected officers. 
DEGREE 
The ticket of sisters Sarah and Anne Wachter defeated the ticket 
Your professional flying
of Karle Barry and Mary Dolchide for Holy Cross Hall president and career could start vice-president with 55 percent of with a phone call the vote. 
In the Augusta Hall contest, Lori The United States Air Force offers some unique career· !less defeated Irene Kenay with 57 starting advantages to college graduates between 20\1, and 27 percent of the vote for secretary. years old. After graduation from Officer Training School you'll 
earn over $16,000 per year while attending flight training;
The new treasurer of Augusta Hall 
automatic increases plus promotion in rank can raise your
Sue Armstrong, defeated Cindy 
income to $28,000 in just 4 years. And you'll acquire valuable
Seifert with 52 percent ofthe vote. 
training and experience that will pay off in civilian life ... like a · 
"I'm psyched!" exclaimed Anne 

head start on a flying career ... or impressive leadership and Wachter, the newly-elected vice­
million-dollar responsibility credentials to go with your president of Holy Cross Hall. She degree. Benefits include 30 days paid vacation annually, and her sister plan to work togcth· world-wide air travel, medical care and much more. Call now er this summer to begin for more information without obligation. It's a great way to 
Implementing their new ideas, such as a Holy Cross Hall W cek and 
The Air Force Pilotand NavigatorInterview 
a riverboat semi-formal. 
team will be at the South Bend Ramada Inn on April 24th. Call 219-233-4747 for an appointment.
Juggler 
available Air Force ... A Great 
Thejuggler. Notre DameJournal ofthe Arts, Is now available. It is on Way of life sale in the O'Shaughnessy Lobby, English Office ( 309), and the dining halb. The price is 25 cents. 
features fiction poetry, criticism and artwork by Notre Dame students. It will he available through next week. 



Summer Storage Master Mini Warehouses Special ,Rates 
eVERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS 
eAPPROXIMATELY 2lh MILES.NORTH 
eMICHIGAN STATE LINE ON U.S. 31 N e GATES OPEN ALL DAY SUNDAY AND EY.ERYDAY 
683-1959 


-
Thursday, April23, 1981 -page 6



Editorials 
P.O. Box Q 
Students defend Fr. c;ri.ffin 
DearEditor: such an individual, but try to reach Society and the Church offer little I must admit that I could not out to this person who has a very 
understanding -with the Fr. Grif· believe my eyes the other day real problem and is in need of aid fins of the world as shining excep· when I read the letter to the editor and comfort. Ifgood Christians like 
tions -so we must unite to share 

from William H. Smullen, headed Fr. Griffin and the Catholic Church the good times and the not·SO· "Fr. Griffin losing sight of duties?"! will not give such love and for· good times, to !aught and to cry, to Mr. Smullen labeled Fr. Griffin as a givenes, then who will, Mr. Smul· survive. 
"derelict," "offensive," "losing len? 

Gay Students ofNDISMC sight of the function of a priest," Dean L.jacob and as "a source of serious scan­St. Edward'sHall dal." And for what? For trying to comfort a troubled young man DearEditor: 
l?quus nudity

who has serious problems and is in In a letter in the April 16 Ob· need ofcare and help. Instead, Mr. server, Mr. William Smullen at· 
i's offensive,

Smullen proposed that Fr. Griffin tacked Fr. Robert Griffin for losing should have told the young man sight of what his (Fr. Griffin's) 
unimaginative

that he was committing a hideous function as a Catholic priest is. Mr.
Doonesbury Garry Trudeau 
sin for which he should be Smullen found it scandalous that "eternally damned." Furthermore, Fr. Griffin could hear the confes· DearEditor: Mr. Smullen believes that alumni sion of a homosexual without The recent performance of 
and students of Notre Dame condemning the young man's life­Equm at Washington Hall here at YOIJG£T70 8~ MY GOT. lHATON& 
YCA"' IA/~lL, !A/HEN NIC£ PI&Ct Y(){) 

should form a "Blue Army" chapter style as "the sin whiCh brought Notre Dame featured full frontal 
AG&. sti!<PRJS& OF THO~ NW 

to supposedly combat the about the destruction of Sodom." nudity. During this same produc·
15 7H8 K8Y 70 !TALJAN 5NU85? 

proposed gay rights club on We have read the article in the tion, the imaginations of the 

5URVIVAL. ;....-­

campus. Notre Dame Magazine (Feb. '81) audience were exercised to some While I am not a homosexual, that prompted Mr. Smullen's letter d<:gree: we were expected to 
nor have I ever been one, nor do I and we find Fr. Griffin's account of visualize horses when we saw even know any, I am infuriated his experience to be humanly young men dressed in brown with Mr. Smullen's letter. Mr. Smul· warm and encouraging. jump-suits with wire horses' heads; len, who labels himself as one of The function of a priest, as we we were expected to visualize a "those who still believes without have come to understand it, is not psychiatrist's office when there doubting all Church teachings," to condemn; but to minister to all were only two benches on stage perhaps does not know that the God's children -gay and straight. with a kind ofrailing around them.. Church "teaches" love, caring, The young gay mentioned in the Blllt nothing, in spite of the dim comfort and forgiveness for all magazine article was apparently lij~ts, was left to the imagination humans, especially for those who living in a relationship imbued when the young man stripped. are in the most need of such com· with love and fidelity. A con· Now, my question to the Notre fort. While I do not favor those demnation would likely have Dame community is this: is this a who a gay rights movement be· driven the young man from the pmper production anytime, let cause I believe it can have negative church and from God, leaving him alone during Holy Week, here at effects for both gays and straights, I without the reassurance that we Notre Dame? am also very much against any Qr· are always loved by God -a reas· janetE. Smith ganization such as the Blue Army surance all people need. We South Bend which evidently teaches the harsh believe Fr. Griffin ought to be ap· condemnation and damnation for plauded for his compassion and anyone who does not measure up understanding. to their own prejudiced standards. Further, Mr. Smullen should be The Observer welcomes letters 

I must say that I do not favor aware that a "Club" ofgays and les· from its readers. These should be homosexuality, but I whole· bians of ND-SMC already exists, al· addressed to the Editorials heartedly respect the right ofthose belt informally. Unable to express Editor, P.O. Box Q on campus. people to be so, so long as it does our unity publicly, we are able to Letters should be typed, double· not infringe upon the rights of help each other cope with the spe· spaced, and brieffor best chance others. But ·more importantly, I cial pains and difficulties that are of publication. We reserve the would never condemn or curse so much a part of being gay. right to edit. 



Editorial Board and Department Managers 
Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 The Observer is an independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessanly  Editor-in-Chief....... . ............................ .john McGrath .Wanaging Editor ......................................Tom Jackman Executive ,Vews Editor ...........Lynne Daley fY;ews Editor .............................................Tim Vercellotti  SMC Executtv.e Editor .....................Mary Agnes Carey SMC News Editor ................................Cathy Domanico Photo Editor ...................................................John Macor  
reflect the policies of the administration of either instirution. The news is reported  News Editor ..................................................)ohn Higgins  Business Manager ....................................Rich Coppola  
as accurately and as objectively as possible. Editorials represent the opinion of a  Senior Copy Editor .............. .......Mary Fran Callah'!_ll  Controller.........................................................)oe Mul1lur  
majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, opinions, and letters are the views  Sports Editor..  . ..................  ..... Michael Ortman  Advertising Manager ......................................Mark EUis  
of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community, and  Features Editor................  ......................Rick Hermida  Production M.anager ...................Ryan Ver Berkmoes  
the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters. is encouraged.  Cir:culation Manager ........................Tom MacLennan  



Bookstore Basketball: rich in tradition, lore 
Rock in early autumn lor the month
By GARY GRASSEY 
ofApril . But Bookstore is much more. It's a chance for the non-jock to 
.\ports Writer 
"It u•as a beautiful day for 
write home to Mom and Dad with a
Bookstore basketball." 
story about the time he caught Bill a Hanzlik napping and stole the hall or
At Notre Dame, any day is the crowd-pleasing prayer he
beautiful day for Bookstore Basket­swisheu through the nets over Kelly
hall. Not rain, nor snow, nor dark of Tripucka.
night -nor evt·n a manhole cover Bookstore is where the beer­
-has ever kept Notre Damt·'s sym­bellied warrior tries in vain to
hol ofstudent holly competitiveness from completing its scht·dukd 
remember how it was in high school rounus on tht· asphalt grounus of 
when running up and down the Bookstore, Lyons and Stepan. 
court uidn't cause shortness of On campus where games brt·ath and mental anguish.
a arc such an integral part of the student It is a time for professors and stu­population's daily retinue (sonic 
uents, frustrated jocks and physical seven of every I 0 Notre Dame stu­
basket cases, butchers and hackers, ucnts participatt·d in varsity ath­
upsets and heartbreak, and the dis­letics during high school), 
plays of body sacrifice and masoc­hism of which legends arc made. •
Hookstore Basketball has become, in In the end, however, Bookstore is
I 0 short years of April madness, a for winners -the best mix of jocks
seemingly ultimate test of athletic and non-jocks Notre Dame can mus­
prowess for tht• thousands of par­ter. It is the great equalizer that
ticipants who will never have the settles arguments that four years of
chant·e to play hall for Gerry faust or afternoons at the Rock never can
Digger Phelps. Bookstore, of course, _is also a 
anl'iwer. and the routs, and the rain, we arc point win, hut they have yet to be
place for those who have made their By ROB SIMARI down to the last 16 teams. Tradition­truly tested. On talen~ alone, thisBookstore Basketball began 10
names wearing gold helmets anu and SKIP DESJARDIN 
ally, they are known as the Sweet may he the best team in the tourna­years ago as Jhc brainchild of Fritz
pads to let people know there's Sports Writers 
Sixteen. Each ofthem got this far by ment, hut that doesn't alwaysHoefer, a student organizer of themore to their makeup than cross a different route. Some had it easy, translate into a win. 
holly blocks anu post patterns. spring An Tostal festivities who felt The final weekend is here... al­but that aU has changed. NEBO'S II -An unknown, butNotre Dame needed a campus bas­most.
Anu it's a place for Digger's boys Inevitably, the cream rises to the talented ballclub that came out of a to shake and bake and strut the stuff ketball tournament to "feature the After ,all ofthe games, and the rain, top, and we think that's the case this weak sectional, finds itself without Irish folks rarely enjoy up close un­and the sun, and the injuries, and the
See HISTORY, page 8 year as well. There may have been its best player just when he is 
kss they've spent an afternoon at the crowds, and the rain, and the upsets, 
384 teams at the start, but we think needed most. Glenn Packard, a high­that these are 16 ofthe very best. ly touted Connecticut prep player, Here's a brief look at them all, in will he back in New Englanu attend­
That's Bookstore 
alphabetical order: ing a wedding. 
The Assassins -After a second Re-Clas..<1ified Nads -Kelly round scare (they won by just two Tripucka finally pkkt•d a team, and points) this team breezed through this was it. Bo Ellis is a good bal­
Sotnefinal thoughts on No. 10 
the Austin Carr sectional. football lplayer, but this team needs 
Wdl, it's finally rime for the Sweet Sixteen. There wa~ 
players Vehr, Crable, and Masztak Tripucka to make a serious chal­a time Tuesday when I thought I'd never get back to teammed up with the Bailey lenge. campus for the Jao;t few rounds. Last Thursday, I went brothers, Scott and Curt. It is the lat­Return of the Nutmeggers ­
Rob Simori

home to Kansas City for Ea~ter. I like to get back to the ter who enabled them to get this far. Mark and Joe Meyers have brought big city whenever I can. It gives me a chance to add a Bookstore Commissioner Chipigula 8: the Debauchers an old dynasty hack to life, sweeping few new outfits to my wardrobe. My flight to Chicago Led by Gilberto Salinas, through the Jack Lloyd sectional.
Tourney Talk 
on Tuesday was postponed indefinitely while the Bookstore's only seven-footer, the With its graduate students, this airline searched for a replacement part for the plane. team has alternated six players in its could be the oldest team left. 
The time spent in the airport wasn't wasted though, romp through the Parseghian Sec­Take this Ball... -This team up­a~ It gave me a chance to visit with my parents. During teams have fallen from the field, one by the way of an tional. Their closest game was an set last year's sentimental favorites, the tournament, we gt·t so few chances to talk. I like to unfortunate disqualification. Some of the 16 haven't eight-point victory, and they hope to US, in a four-point battle last night. 
take advantage of every one. I asked them who they been tested, but that will surely end today. Each remain­carry that momentum into the finals. Mike Frawley, a 6-'5 center leads this thought would win the tournament and they told me ing game promises to bring out the best of both teams Gimme Heu -Dave Hett and his team. that they really didn't care. involved. teammates defeated a Kevin T. B. Express -football players 
Finally,thc part was found and I threw on my coat The finals this year, as in the past three years, will be Hawkins-less Born to Run, despite Jim Stone. Dave Duerson, and Gregg (nicer than the ones my staff own) and got on the held behind the ACC, and we're hoping for better the fact that Born to Run made last Williamson have combined with in­plane... weather than we've had the last couple of years. The year's 16 without Hawkins. That terhall behemoth John Schaefer to 
. staff has worked hard setting up an All-Star game which overtime win, alor~g with last night's breeze through the 'Moose' Krause will precede the finals. The day will prove to be a
Wait, this column is supposed to be about the tourna­27-25 victory over' A Touch ofClass, sectional. landmark event in Bookstore history.
ment, not me. It's so easy to get caught up in yourself made their road to this point one of T. P. S.-"Awesome" is the word when you're in charge ofs1.1ch a successful program. the toughest.
Running this tournament for the last two years ha'l to best describe this club. They havt· definitely been a mixed blessing. Sometimes I feel like a 
The tournament is down to 16 teams after 368 games Head Over Heels -Former var­caused most of Stepan's bent rims basketball referee -whatever I do will make someone
and four months of planning. for the staff, the work is sity walk-on basketball player and and shaking backboards. Greg Bell, unhappy, and the best thing I can hope for is to be Mansel Carter, Stacy Toran, Duant·
over, and we can sit bat:k and enjoy things from here on present law student Tim Healy ln. The only way to run a tournament with 384 teams is relatively unnoticed. teams up with Bill Copeland and Dickens, and Tim Colllns. Watch. to surround yourselfwith the most competent staff pos­Lately, the size ofthe tournament and the intensity of 'Tab' Baldwin for this one. They TequUa White Lightning ­
sible. the play have warranted a strict interpretation of cer­defeated Scott Zettek and Steve They arc all freshmen, and they 
For the Jao;t three years, Bookstore Basketball hao; tain rules. As long as Bookstore remains as important as Cichy's team in a rematch from last simply dt·stroyeu a very strong been blessed with the efforts and talents of Mary Beth it is to so many people, some of the intended year to get this far. Nell's RC.M.P.'s to get here. They Sterling and Anne Fink. These girls are on the court playground atmosphere will have to be sacrificed In Hill's Angels -Areturnee to the are strong outsiue shooters who through all three weeks. all the rain and cold, and all of favor oforganization. 16 after dropping a 21-18 game to rarely miss. the hao;slcs. Without them, the tournament just could Hopefully, whoever runs this tournament in the eventual runners-up Strap­W Pace-Stan Wilcox is bringing 
not run. future will keep its growth in ch~ck, for the benefit of pamasquon last year, this team the playgrounds of New York to Frank LaGrotta knows more about Bookstore than those involved. If it continues to grow, it may get too features a successful team concept South Bend. They have escaped anyone on this campus, and offered his advice whether big for students to run, and that's one aspect of that revolves around 6-7 Mark Davis. some close gamt·s, despite lack­we asked for it or not. Bookstore that should never change. Jackson 5 -The jury is still out luster play. Silk needs a better 
This year, we brought in new staff members. Rich It has been exciting being involved with a tourna­on whether Tracy will play, and they supporting ca~t to win it all. O'Connor helped make sure things went well at Stepan, ment in which the first round games arc played with as may need him. A tough 23-21 win WEBB's End -The men that while Bt·tsy Klug and Brian Reimer did the same at much intensity as the finals. Bookstore has an aura that last night ·proved that this team has have taken the Howaru interhall 
Lyons and the Bookstore, n:spectivcly. Gary Grassey touches everyone involved. Past players have written to talent, but hasn't yet jelled as a unit. team to the campus championship, and Skip Desjardin hclpt·d take some of the ad­say that it was the most enjoyable experience of their Steve Notarro, a lightning quick now they want to accomplish the college careers. It is that kind offeeling that makes 200
ministrative load off my sh:.mldcrs. guard, is making a strong bid for same thing in the Bookstore tour­students stand in the rain for an hour and a halfto watch
Three weeks ago, I proclaimed this a wide-open Bookstore honors. ney. This might be tht· year for a a game. 
tournament, anu that is t'Vtn more evident now that Masters of Disaster -Their team without a singl~· varsity athlete That's Bookstore Bao;kctball. 
there are only 16 teams left Only two of the ranked closest game this year was a nine-to take the crown. 
-

---..-------------­
Observer Sports Supplement -Bookstore X Thursday, April23, 1981 -page 8 
W ate bing it grow 




lama manh<,le cover 

BEHIND THE BOOKSTORE -I have been laying here for too many years to mention and I've seen plenty. I've survived hundreds ofre-paving jdbs (although they tried to cover me up this last time) and I been walked over, driven over, rained on and buried by ice and snow plenty. 
Hey, it isn't easy being a manhole cover. 
But once in a while it pays off. Take now, for instance, when the Bookstore Basketball Tournament is in progress. I have the best seat in the house for some of the most exciting basketball gam.es ever played anywhere. Why, I even got an article written about me in Sports Illustrated a few years ago. Even got a picture in there (my best side, ofcourse). 
Anyway, I can remember when this whole thing started. Couple guys named Fritz and Vince ran around and set up this tournament back in 1972 and it's been getting bigger and bigger every year. And exciting? 
Take a game back in 1977, for instance. TILCS III was playing The Average White Team and it was raining. Man, if I didn't rust then I never will! The TILCS had Dave Batton and A.W.T. had Billy Paterno, and it was a war. The same two teams had played the year before and TILCS won that one (it rained that day too) so 
A.W.T. was out for blood. " 
But Batton and John Dubanetsky put a lid (no pun intended) on Paterno and the TILCS won their second straight title, 21-17. There must have been 2,000 people there to watch that game. People on the sidelines, people in the bleachers, people on the bookstore roof, people out the windows, people in the trees... 
Anyway, the next year they moved the finals behind the ACC which kind of upset me. But I still say the best games every year take place in the octafinals and quar­terfinals and those are played here. 
That same year, 1977, Jeff Carpenter's team (sorry, the name escapes me) played a game on my court that has to rate as the biggest show ofguts in Bookstore his­tory. Carpenter was coming down the court on a fast break when he ran right into a pole and broke his col­larbone. But because the rules don't allow substitu­tions, Carp decided to keep playing rather than let his team play four-on-five. His team lost, but he received a five-minute standing ovation that brought tears to my drainage hole. I would have applauded too but, well... you understand. 
The next year it was Batton again when he played a team called the Irish Guards and almost lost. TILCS IV were favored but the Guards played their hearts out. Leo Latz, Brian Kilbane, Paul Riehle ... those guys were tough! The TILCS won, 21-18, but they had their hands full. As it turned out, that game was a premonition of things to cr because the TILCS lost to Carpenter's team in tht 
But the s, f that game was Dave Batton and the greatest disp ' sportsmanship in the history of the 

Hisi-ory 



continuedfrom page 7 
style of ball which is characteristic ofgames here." 
Vince Meconi was the first tourna­ment commissioner in 1972 when 53 teams ( 21 5 ballplayers) in­augurated what was dubbed "Bookstore Hysteria" -a tribute to Hoosiers and assorted basketball fanatics alike. 
The '72 champions were called "The Family." Digger Phelps products John Shumate, Gary Brokaw, Pete Crotty, lllld Dwight Clay teamed with Ara Parseghian quarterback Cliff Brown to form, without a doubt, a family which was the greatest team in Bookstore his­tory. Rain during the semifinal round pushed the final game into the Rockne Memorial where Shumate & Co., before 500 fans, defeated Hawks and Geese, 21-12. Hatchet awards for physical play and the Mr. Bookstore moniker -in recogni­tion ofthe contributions ofthe finest non-jock in the tournament -were presented. 
Rule changes were swift. To give students an incentive to play (i.e. a better chance to win), teams were forbidden to have more than three football players, or no more than one varsity basketball player who could play with a maximum of two football players. Also, weather con­ditions would never again force a Bookstore game indoors. 
In 1973, Meconi's tournament grew to 105 teams and the use ofthe Stepan and Lyons _courts became-a 

must. The 31 Club, led by former Irish quarterback Tom Clements and Rockne Memorial star Mike "Hondo" Bonifer, won its first oftwo Bookstore crowns in 1973 amidst cold and darkness and a standing room only crowd behind the 'Athletic and Publication Center.' Co-winners of Mr. Bookstore were twin brothers Peter and Paul Clemensofthe runnerup Marksmen. By 1976, the rules had not changed much. There was still no substituting allowed, Tom Clements had graduated, thus retiring the 31 Club (appropriately known as "the UCLA ofBookstore Basketball"), and a new commissioner, Tim "Bone" Bourret, had, in his second April campaign, expanded the field to 256 teams -"a perfect number," Bone said. Hardcourt star Dave Batton, the eventual '76 MVP, and footballer John Dubenetzky led TILCS III to a 22-20 championship game victory over hoopster Bill Paterno's Average White Team_ in a downpour. It was 
tournament. The crowd was cheering for the under­dogs (like always) but Batton took it in stride, laughed­at his own mistakes and gave those in attendance a show they didn't soon forget. 
Afterward, some guy said the TILCS just didn't have that "killer instinct." I wanted to reach up and trip the dummy! Killer instinct?!! That is not what Bookstore Basketball is all about. And Batton knew that. 
And how about that game in 1979 when The Butcher Brothers took on a Cinderella team in a blinding rainstorm that started at 6:00 and ended at 8:45. It was cold and wet and dark and, man, what a game. Bruce Flo'wers and Dave Huffman played for the Butchers, and they managed to win it, 21-18. But a crowd of over 1,000 braved the elements to watch the longest game in Bookstore history. And nobody left before it was over. 
Oh, and the people. Rusty Lisch, who played in five tournaments and led his team to the final game every time. Tom "Old Guy" Sudkamp, a real candidate for all­time Mr. Bookstore, who led Chumps Too and Defend­ing Chumps to consecutive titles in 1979 and 1980. Bill Hanzlik who played as a freshman and sophomore, coached as a junior, then returned his senior year to play with Defending ':humps and finally win the title he wanted so badly. 
And the not-so-well-known names. Bill Sheehan, Bob 
Keenahan, Mike Meyer, Tom Pfeifer, Dave Marcel... I 
could go on and on. 
You know, somebody mentioned that they wanted to televise the finals this year. I even heard they were thinking of moving the games to another day to ac­comodate those TV turkeys. I'm glad they didn't. That kind of stuff is nice and prestigious, but it isn't what Bookstore is all about. Vince and Fritz and Bone Bourret didn't have any of this in mihd when they started this thing 10 years ago. They probably didn't even figure it \ would last this lorng. 
But it has, and even though the crowds are bigger and the scoresheets are more "official" the spirit of Bookstore Jives on. After all is said and done, it's still just a campus tournament that gives good players and bad players and short players and tall players a chance to lace up the Ponies play some hoops and basically get together and have a good time. 
Which is the way it should be; should always be. 
And me? Hey, I'm sticking around. You never know 
what's gonna happen in one ofthese games. And I don't 
plan on missing a minute ofit. 

Paterno's second straight loss in the finals and Dubenetzky's second con­secutive win. 
Dubenetzky, a member of31 Club III in 1975, made it three years in a row with a champion in 1977 as TILCS IV edged Paterno's Average White Team, 23-21 for the second time. Joe Montana of "Comeback Kid" fame hit six buckets for TILCS in the finale, and Batton won his second MVP award. Tom Sudkamp, an associate professor of mathe­matics, led Chumps to the semifinals and earned the Mr. Bookstore award. Over a four-year span, Batton-led teams were 27-2, includ­ing the 22-game unbeaten streak by TILCS III through V. 
In 1978, Bookstore became a 
nationally-renowned spectacle as 
the roving eye ofSports Illustrated 
graced the tourney with a four-page 
spread in its May 15 Kentucky Derby 
issue, authored by Rick Telander. 
TILCS V went down to defeat in the 
semifinals, paving the way for Jeff 
Carpenter and Rusty Lisch of Leo's 
Last to the championship. Chumps 
Too was the_ runnerup, with "Suds" 
Sudkamp receiving the MVP award. 
Digger Phelps 'discovered' future 
varsity basketball walk-on Kevin 
Hawkins, a first-team all-Bookstore 
player in this tournament. A crowd 
See HISTORY, page 9 



Observer Sports Supplement -Bookstore X Thursday, April23, 1981 -page 9 
Family, Chumps 


Al·l-Stars return 
By SKIP DESJARDIN 
Sports Writer 
"Without question, this will be 
Bookstore's finest hour." 
Rob Simari is obviously excited about this weekend. So arc Frank l.aGrotta, Mary Beth Sterling, and Anne Fink. 
These people devote more time to the Bookstore Baskt·tball each spring than most Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students do to their studies. 
For three weeks, the four, along with assistants Betsy Klug, Brian Reimer, and Gary Grasscy, spend roughly five to seven hours a day, seven days a week, making sure the games run on time, the correct scores an· rcportt·d and printed in The Obn'1Ver, and everything proceeds as intended. 
Saturday and Sunday, all that work will he rewarded. It is not an ex· agnation to say that there has never bt•cn another day in Bookstore like there will he Sunday. 
In the spring of 1972, Fritz Hoefer and Vince Mcconi founded the tournament. When the dust settled, Dwight Clay, Gary Brokaw, John Shumate, Pete Crotty, and Cliff Brown walked away with the cham· pioship trophies. 
In the spring of 1980, Bill Hanzlik, Rusty Lisch, Tom Sudkamp, Chris Mullcnkamp, and Dan Short took home the hardwart·. 
In between, Tim 'Bone' Bourret got the tournament featured in Sports Illustrated, and expanded the field to 256 teams. Jeff Carpenter battled Dave Batton, seperating a shoulder in the process. Leo Latz took over administration of the tournament, and saw Lisch lead his team to five consecutive champion· ship games. Rob Simari took on the Commissioner's mantle, and he ex· panded tht· field to 384 teams. 
Sunday, most of those people will return to Notre Dame to celebrate the I Oth t·dition of Bookstore. For the first time since the inception of the tournament, an All-Star game will he played, which will feature some ofthc higgt•st names in the his· tory ofthis roundball classic. 
One team will feature the stars of the early years ofthe tournament, in what some have called almost the Dark Ages of basketball at Notre Dame. 
For the first time since the 1974 scao;on when they teamed up to help break UCI.A's phenomenal 88-game winning strt·ak, Gary Brokaw and Dwight Clay will play in the same bat·kcourt. 
Brokaw, whose 17.3 point-per· game scoring average made him one ofDigger Phelps' first All-Americans, went on to play in the NBA with Mil· waukee and Cleveland after leaving Notre Dame. He wa-; recently named full-time assisstant basketball coach at his alma mater. Clay, whose jump shot from the right corner with 29 seconds on the clock to heat the Bruins In the 71·70 thriller earned him the nickname "The Iceman," wa<; captain ofthe 1975 Irish team. 
Tentatively joining them on one squad will he Fr. Edward "Monk" Malloy, the only man to have played in all I 0 editions of Bookstore, and Kevin Hawkins, whose tournament performance as a freshman impressed Phelps so much that the Irish coach offerred Hawkins a place on Notre Dame's varsity basketball squad. 
The fifth member of the team will he Fritz Hoefer, "The Father of Bookstore". Hoefer founded the tournament with Vince Meconi in 1972 in order to give students a chance to play pick-up games against the varsity athletes. However, an ankle injury prevented Hoefer, a senior at the time, from ever playing in a Bookstore game. 
Membt·rs of tht· opposing squad basically will constitute a reunion of 
"The Chumps," winners of the last 
two championships. 
Bill Hanzlik, now a starter for the 
NBA's Seattle Supersonics, and a for· 
mer co-captain of the Irish basket· 
hall team, will lead the club. He will 
he joined by Rusty Lisch, the ony 
man to play in five consecutive 
Bookstore championship games, 
and now a quarterback with the St. 
Louis Cardinals. 
The man generally acclaimed as 
the personification of "The Spirit of 
Bookstore," Tom Sudkamp, will also 
play. 'Suds' won virtually every 
honor that can be bestowed upon 
Bookstore players during his career. 
The former math instructor left 
Notre Dame last fall to pursue a 
career in engineering. 
The other members ofthe second 
all-star squad were also p~ of the 
Chumps dynasty. Dave Marcel was 
an original member, and Dan Short 
proved to be the glue that held 
Defending Chumps together in their 
drive for the 1980 Championship. 
Coaching the two teams will be 
the four Bookstore Commissioners. 
Meconi and Bourret will share the 
duties of guiding the Brokaw-Clay 
team from Bookstore's infancy, 
while Latz and Simari will try to lead 
the younger players to a win. 
There are other festivities 
planned as well. Hoefer, the man 
who founded it all, and Bourret, the 
man who made it what it is today, 
have never met. For the first time, all 
four Bookstore Commissioners will 
be in the same place at the same 
time. They will use the occasion to 
decide on and proclaim an"All·Time 
Bookstore Team." 
"Bookstore really has become big· ger than all of us," say~ Simari. "I am just glad we are going to get a chance to gather all of these people together. An event like the lOth edi· lion of Bookstore deserves a celebration. 
Bourret, currently the assistant sports information director at Clem· son, arrived last night to see the final 32 teams play. He sums up the feeling ofBookstore when he says, "I wouldn't miss this for the world. Why do you think I flew all the way up here? It's the same thing that brings Vince Meconi from New Jer· sey and Billy Hanzlik from Seattle. Bookstore is special, it typifies the idea of Notre Dame, and no amount of miles can change that." 
Meconi remem~ers beginnings 


History 

continuedfrom page 8 
hovering over the 3,000 mark for 
the '78 finals which threatened to 
cave in the roof of the Bookstore 
forced the tournament administra· 
tion to move the last two rounds he· 
hind the ACC for future years. 
Alas, even the student streetball 
tournament at Notre Dame became 
embroiled in an NCAA controversy. 
The powers that be in Shawnee Mis· 
sion, Kan., decided, after an inquiry 
by Providence College Athletic 
Director Dave Gavitt, whose school 
was seeking to start a Bookstore-like 
tournament of its own, that varsity 
basketball players with remaining 
college eligibility could not play in 
the Rhode Island campus tourney or 
the Notre Dame affair. Bookstore 
commissioner Leo Latz made his 
protests known to the NCAA and in 
the 'Scorecard' section of a 1979 
issue ofSports Illustrated, but to no avail. Including this spring, the past 
three Bookstore tournaments have seen only senior varsity ba'iketball players on the court, opening the way for varsity football players like Pete Holohan, Greg Knafelc and Mike Courey of Strappama'iquon and the Combat Wombats to show their skills, as in last year's competi· tion. 
Rusty Lisch and Tom Sudkamp led two versions of Chumps to Bookstore championships in 1979 and 1980, and a group of non-jocks from Howard Hall known as Later WEBB, Much Later WEBB, and final· ly, WEBB's End have put together a stylish brand ofteam ball and turned out a winning fivesome. The 1980 Mr. Bookstore award went to Much Later WEBB's Bob Keenahan. 
The tournament expanded in 1979 to 320 teams thanks to com· puter whizz Bill Marquard's schedul­ing format. In 1980, Latz' heir Rob Simari built the field to 384 teams and nearly 2,000 players, which is where the tourney stands today. 
Having spurned the monetary of· fers of a cable television debut in 
1981, Bookstore Basketball seems to 
have established some traditions that will never be broken, even for the sake of the almighty dollar. The spirit of games at Notre Dame is more alive today than ever before and Bookstore Basketball is probab­ly to •thank or blame for that, depending on one's point ofview. 
But where else could a young man fulfill his dreams of playing ball in the big time? Where else could a kid run through the rain and cold, diving for the elusive basketball on pave· ment? 
Where else could over I,000 people turn out and see a 45-year­old football coach go 1-for-18 and feel like they'd seen something spe­cial? 
Where else could a whole campus 
turn a simple basketball tournament 
into a month-long spectacle? 
Only at Notre Dame? 
No way. 
Only in Bookstore Ba-;kctball. 
It's bigger than you think. 

Editor's Note: The following was delivered by courrler to The Ob· server last night. It is a collection ofmusings by Vince Meconi, the first commissioner ofBookstore Basketball. Remember that Vince hasn't been around for a Jew years, but then some things never 
change. 
The best individual performance I ever saw wa'> that of Tom Cle­ments in the 1975 quarter-, semi·, and finals as he led 31 Club Ill to the championship. Despite poor weather, including hurricane warnings, and gathering darkness, Clements put on a show with his long-range ( 18 feet plus) shooting and all-around play. The spectators knew Cle· ments had turned down a North Carolina basketball scholarship for his Notre Dame football career, and there were no skeptics left when the tournament was over. 
In 1972, the eventual champion and heavily favored Family (featuring basketball stars Shumate, Brokaw, Clay and Crotty) was losing 10·3 to the Anvil Chorus, a less talented but more physical quintet featuring gridders Bill Etter, Fred Swendsen, and Jeff Cowin. Cowin, the first G9lden Hatchet Award winner, played Dennis Awtrey to Shumate's Kareem-AbdulJabbar. Cowin's combination ofoffensive 
~prayers and bludgeon defense got Shumate so frustrated that he threatened to walk off the court. Brokaw convinced him that wasn't the answer, and Shumate started hauling down every rebound until The Family won, 21·18. After one picture-perfect driving bank shot, Shumate ran down the sideline slapping palms with 25 spectators in a row (the "high five" not yet having been invented). 
The most fustrating thing about the early tournaments was the lack ofObsen,er coverage. We'd have I,000 players participating in a nine· day tournament and 2,000 fans watching the Final Four and we'd get two paragraphs. Meanwhile The Observer was writing a half-page ar· tide on some golfer. Give me a break! 
_w 

The top Cinderella team of all time may have been lieU's Hoops, which made it to the Final Four in 1974 before losing to the eventual champions, The Ducks, 21·18. The team consisted offive players from Cavanaugh, none of them varsity athletes. In fact, none were even interhall stars. Six-foot-three Greg Garcia, 6-0 Mark l.ammt•rt, 5·1 0 Kevin Ford, 5·9 Tom Buffamante and 5-9 Jim Byrnes, pulled off six straight upsets of taller, heavier teams to get to the semi-finals. In· eluded in that string were two wins over teams led by 6-8 and 6·9 varsity basketball players (one a 26-24 overtime affair) and one win over a defending Final Four team. 
In all the games I saw played on that Bookstore court, the most famous manhole cover in sports history never interfered with play once. 
The worst team ever might have been a 1974 team called the Lol· lipop Guild. With nobody on their team over 5·4, they lost their first game 21·2, after which their coach told them, "Ifyou guys only had to hit the backboard to score, you'd still lose by 10." 
We scheduled the first day's games in 1972 only 15 minutes apart, but then, what did we kl)ow? We got further and further behind schedule until the sun went down with one game still to he played. So we played it, in total darkness and a pouring rain. 
I don't think, in retrospect, that Fritz Hoefer, or I, or the 10 players in that first game at 4 p.m., Monday, April 17, 1972, behind the Bookstore expected that Bookstore Basketball would, in I 0 years, develop into a 384-team marathon with a special arena behind the ACC, and media coverage in The Obseroer, the South Bend Tribune, the ChicaoSun-Times,Sports Illustrated, ESPN and others. But Isn't It the greatest? 
----------------------------------------------------------------~ 
r=----~-----~----_ __:_,----_ 
Observer Sports Supplement -Bookstore X Thursday, April23, 1981 -page 10 




_~__ 

BOOKSTORE X 
THIS BUD'S FOR YOU. 
Here's to o great tournment 
ond over 2000 porticiponts 
1981 BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL CHAMPIONSHIP BRACKET 
Sweet Sixteen  Elite Eight  Final Four  Championship  
April23  April24  April25  April26  
THE ASSASSINS  ·­ 


NEBO'S II 
CHp this schedule ond follow Bookstore Xthrough the weekend with Budweiser~ King of Beers® 
-----~~--~------------­

----~-~--------------------------------­


Features 
No bucks, noyuks 
Contract talks betweenTbe Ob­server management and the United Network of Independent Car­toonists broke down over the Easter break. The United Network of Inde­pendent Cartoonists ( U.N.I.C.) began to picket immediately. 
The only members ofU.N.I.C., Pat "the Rank" Byrnes and Michael "File" Molinelli, blame the strike on 1'be Observer's insensitivity to the needs of the cartoon staff. Among the cartoonist's needs are: the in­stitution of a cartoonist lounge, a masseuse, a comprehensive pension plan and priority use of1'be Obseroer van. U.N.I.C. Is also concerned with their professional status. 
"Cartoonists at Tbe Observer seemed to be automatically rated on the lowest of journalistic castes," said Byrnes, "and it is this son of caste rating that U.N.I.C. is opposed to." 
In addition, cartoon content surfaced a-; a major issue. "Then they ( 1'be Obsen~er) had the gall to ao;k us (the cartoonists) to make sure that they (the cartoons) were funny." said Molinelli (the jerk). 
Editor-in-Chief John McGrath came out from under his desk to state,"7'be Obseroer has no intention of demeaning itself by negotiating with a pair of third rate cartoonists. Besides, they're no funnier than a Pinto in a demolition derby." 
Byrnes and Molinelli responded,"Oh yeah?" 
Despite claims by 1'be Obseroer that normal oper~tions of the paper have been proceeding unhampered, 
U.N.I.C. 
claims its force is being felt."1'be Obseroer thinks U.N.I.C. is powerless, but we intend to raise our voices even higher to show them we can remain hard on the issues, "said a spokesman for U.N.I.C. 

Brother Unions have joined 

U.N.I.C. 
in their struggle. The Union of Check Cashers (U.C.C.), Typists Who Imbibe Tirelessly (T.W.I.T.), De Union of National Groundskeepers (D.U.N.G.), The 


Society Of Those Guys Who Put Dumb Captions Under Photographs (T.S.O.T.G.W.P.D.C.U.P.) and the Fraternal Union of Computer Tech­
, nicians have-also gone on strike. Jeff MacNelly and Gary Trudeau are not members of U.N.I.C. but of the Secular Cartoon Artist Brotherhood and therefore their cartoons will ap­pear in 1'be Obseroer. The other spokesman for U.N.I.C. said, "They're SCABs." 
The cartoonists believe that most of their support comes from the stu­dent body. "As soon as the students are tired of reading nothing but per­sonals and doing the crossword puzzle, they'll storm 1'be Obseroer offices, set fire to the equipment, throw the reporters out the win­dows and sacrifice the editorial board," said Molinelli,"or maybe they'll just forget about it and go to class." 
Pat Byrnes was not availible for further comment as he was in a dark corner doing something terribly proletariat. 


'Moving Pictures' slows • • • • • • as musicianship glows 
t would be: easy to dismiss Moving Pictures, Rush'sIeighth album, for a variety of reasons. First and foremost arc the pretentious and downright stupid lyrics ofdrummer Neil Peart, who, despite presenting a few good phrao;cs and ideas per album, can't overcome the self-important cosmic drivel syndrome so many an­rock groups f.&llinto. (An example: "An ounce of per­ception/A pound of obscure/Process information/At half speed.") People like Becker and Fagan (of Steely Dan) can bt· cryptic yet witty and intelligent, while Peart is almost always merely cryptic. 
Second on the annoyance potential meter, is the voice of bassist/keyboardist/vocalist Gcddy Lee. While both distinctive and interesting, his high-pitched whining can become very grating after more than 20 minutes. Whilt-at times Lee's performances border on powerful, he doesn't have the vocal range to maintain interest through all eight of the LP's songs. 
Finally, tht·re is Rush's annual attempt to make an I !­minute epic out of a four-minute idea This time it's "The Camera Eye," a rather dull-witted, meandering ex­amination of light and shade in New York and London (admittedly an original idea) which is quite creative in parts, but overall, falls Oat on its face. At least it's an Improvement o~cr "Natural Science," the abominable epic which was the only weak effort on last year's out­
standingPermanant Waves. 
I'd like to write Rush off this easily, but it isn't pos­sible. From their origins as Canada's best ted Zeppelin clones, this group has not only improved its always­tight musicianship, but hao; also dramatically remodeled Its sound, forging its own niche as one of the few art­rock band-; with guts. 
Despite Rush's history ofdisfavor among rock critics, no one has ever disputed their top-flight musicianship. With better arrangements In the past two years, their playing hao; improved. Bands along the fringes of art­progres.o;ivc-heavy metal music (e.g., Yes, Kansas, and Genesis) sometimes tend toward excesses in composi­tion, arrangement, and ego gratification; at times I their career Rush has virtually smothered itself in tl> excesses. 
As they have decrea~ed the frequency of those ex­cesses, Rush's music has become fresher and more con­sistent. Lee and guitarist Alex Ufeson are greatly underrated a"i songwriters. They seem to have matured In their composing by tightening their songs to all but 
eliminate the aimless doodling which has plagued prior records without losing the free and intricate group work which sets them far above the average power trio. 
In the past, Lifeson and Lee often overused power­chording to guard against shallow sound (which all thrce-man groups must fear). But as their confidence has grown, their songs have become more intricate and tao;teful -and more listenable. They are not afraid to experiment; witness "Red Barchetta," which bubbles over with hooks and is an enjoyable change of pace, although too complex to be a hit single. Lee's luscious synthesizers and low-key vocals over his bedrock-firm bass line make this song the LP's best. Even the lyrics hold up, as Peart tells a story Instead ofsimply moraliz­ing, as he is wont to do. 

One of the most exciting cuts is the instrumental "YYZ," which shows guitarist Lifcson at his finest, run­ning a stylistic range from his trademark churning, straight-ahead guitar and on-the-fringe progressive vir­tuosity to delicate, Spanish-style acoustic playing. Not only does he fare well in each vein, but somehow he fuSI '11 into an integrated, workable whole. 
.•ght" and "Tom Sawyer" are conventional 
.aaterial, but are strengthened by arrangements 
.:h free Lifeson from having to spew out power 
.tords and keep Peart's outstanding drumming from being buried in the mix. P.eart handles a variety ofstyles impeccably, and sounds more like Bill Bruford than Bruford himself. 
Synthesizers have been much more prominent in recent Rush LP's (one reason why Lifeson has been able to show himself as a superb guitarist). At the same time, they have had the sense not to overuse these most misused pieces of equipment in rock. Lee uses electronics to great advan'tage on "Witch Hunt," an eerie, haunting, and utterly absorbing work, and "Vital Signs," which, despite some of the finest music on the record, is undermined by unbelievably inane lyrics about improving the morale of men-machines. 
Moving Pictures is better than any other Rush effort, some of which arc very good in their own right. Al­though they still have obvious flaws, the band is begin­ning to get them under control; as a result, the futore looks even brighter. These guys seem to grow more in­telligent and accomplished with each release. I must give this album an enthusiastic endorsement. 
Tom Krueger 



Can God really be that lonely? 
T
here are as many different conceptions of God as there are 
persons in this world. To some, God is a benefactor; to 
others, a judge. But for many, God is a friend, like the student 
who always listens to our problems and to whom we turn for 
comfort and inspiration. 

A student fails three courses and is asked to leave the Univer­
sity. As she looks up from reading her final letter from the Dean 
of the College of Arts and Letters, she feels the loneliness of 
academic failure. To alleviate her anxiety, she seeks the com­
fort ofher best friend, to whom she relates her fears and hopes. 
Another student is lonely because he realizes that a relation­
ship in which he has exposed his innermost feelings is coming 
to an end. Depressed, he asks a guidance counselor to give him 
a new perspective on life. 

Both of these students must now accept new insights into 
their situations in order to fill their newfound emptiness. They 
call upon God in some form or another to guide them. Thus, a 
being who is capable ofsuffering the same pain as each ofthese 
students comes alive. 

My greatest difficulty in accepting this interpretation ofGod 
rests in the belief that we cannot positively determine any of 
His qualities. We usually seem to appreciate only a limited 
number of his characteristics while disregarding His other 
qualities. 

Modern man summarily categorizes God according to per­
ceived and unperceived forms -the visible God we witness in 
the lives of others, and the unseen God we invoke through 
prayer. Many times we see God as somehow sacrificing His 
omnipotence and omniscience in order to successfully reveal 
Himself trn us. 

Some ro\:1 obligated to rationalize God's seemingly pluralis­tic nature by balancing 'separate' qualities against each other. As soon as God assumes a certain degree ofhumanity, he loses a proportional degree ofdivinity. And so, God only suffers in our predicament by casting off his heavenly garb and assuming pants and a shirt. 
But must God decide between human and divine? Is He not 
the culmination of both ideals? Does God not 'experience' all 
things simultaneously? Is the God of power and might some­
how not the same being who is somehow within each one of 
us? 

Even as we individually conceive of God, we should realize that our understanding oflife (ests on our responses to others. \ve recognize the need for agreement, the real sense ofsharing. In QUr conception of God, we must come to an understanding of"Ow we, as believing Christians, should approach Him. 
God shnnld not he limited to playing the role ofa being who 
rests on .:ach of our· shoulders"waiting to satisfy our every 
•..-lulu. uod is God for all men; he relates to both the individual and to the group. 
A properly focused conception ofGod is not one ofseparate and distinct beings who are somehow glued together, but that of a united being who diversely affects each one of us. For in whatever way we strive to see God as meaningful in our lives, he still remains the incomprehensible truth. 
Paul McGinn 
~ 
J 
I The ObserYer==---===c-=-= 
I 
' 
' ~ 
-
I 
~ 
I I I 
! 
I 
I I I 
I r I I I I 
I 
I I 
~ 
I I I 
I 
,I I 
I 
I 
I 
I' 
I
' 
• 12-1 p.m. -umoc voting at Iafortune.  
•I:15 p.m. lecture:  
"managing as a performing art,"  
david maxwell, stanford univer­ 
sity, 119 haggar, sponsored by  
the psychology department.  
•4 p.m. -lecture: "radical ions  
nf retinyl polyenes/' dr. p.k. das,  
n d colflference room, rad lab. -I •4: 15 p.m. lecture: "problems in the automotive  
industry," joseph godfrey, for­ 
rper v.p. general motors, hayes­ 
healy auditorium, sponsored by  
the finance department.  
•4:30-6:30 -umoc voting at  
dining halls.  
•7 p.m. mock court:  
memorial library lounge,  
sponsored by the departments  
of philosophy, theology, army  
rotc and the law schooL  
•7 p.m. -12 p.m. -film: "three  
stooges, daffy duck film fes­ 
tival," admission S.50,  
sponsored by the K ofC.  
•7:30 p.m. -lecture: "women  
in the military, issues and  
problems," dr. lois detleur, uni­ 
versity of chicago, 278 galvin  
science, sponsored by the  
department of sociol­ 
ogy/anthropology.  
•7:30 p.m. -film: "the tree of  
the wooden clogs," sponsored  
by the department of com­ 
munications & theater.  
•8 p.m. -lecture: "inflation &  
world disorder in the 1980s,"  
professor dudley seers, 356 fitzpatrick, sponsored by the  I·  
department ofeconomics.  1  
•8 p.m. -lecture: "politics in  
central america," profs.  
denisard alvis, michael francis,  
gilbert Ioescher, denis goulet,  
117 haggar.  
•8 p.m. -concert: michael  
bjelica, classical guitar, little theater, smc.  

BeauxArtsBall Saturday 
On Saturday, April 25, the stu­dents of the Department of Ar­chitecture present the annual spring Beaux Arts Ball. The theme of this spring's costume extravaganza is "Making Movies." The ball, which is open to every person on campus, will be held in the Architecture Building lobby, with the festivities commencing at 9:00p.m. , 
The history of the Beaux Arts Ball goes back to the 18th century in France. With the establishment of the school known as the Ecole de Beaux Arts in Paris, the tradition of having an annual costume ball was bq;un. Notre Dame's Beaux Arts has had a long tradition, with the Ball achieving a radical image during the late 1960's. Even wht:n the "arkies" travel to Rome during their junior year, the Ball also comes. Some of the recent themes have been "Woodstock," "Star Lore & other Galatic Funk," "Leftovers," "Underworlds,'' and "Squeeze." 
The music for this spring's event will be provided by Plan 9 from Chicago, formerly the Rockafellers. 
The Beaux Arts Committee has secreted a case ofgood beer and two tickets to Saturday's costume ball some>;Vhere on the Notre Dame campus. Follow these clues and you ~hall not want of thirst or tickets. The theme for-the ball is Making Movies and will be held in the Ar­chitecture Building Saturday at 8 
p.m. Beaux Arts Ball: Making Mm•i.-s Take I: From where do we Rome? It's all on file. Take 2: Make Believe Worlds in Make Believe Places. 


~«:)cJlC3L~==========================T=h=u=rs=d=~=·A=p=r=il=2=3=,1=9=8=1==~=a=g=e==12
Campus Molarity Michael Molinelli 


The Dai~y Crossword 

55 Aphrodite's 28 Pluvial 
son 29 Common 57 Liven (up) contraction 58 Tremulous 31 Jugwlth 
tree a spout 59 Peak 32 Feature 80 Metric of some 
measures skirts 61 Spreads hay 33 Mexican 62 "Of-1 dog 
Sing" 34 Rlverto the North DOWN Sea 1 Sandwich 38 Relative 
letters of17A 2 Catalogue 37 Repeated 3 Asian Nana design 4 Establish· 38 Allhetup 
mentno-no 42 Office 5 People workers 6 Irregularly 43 Useanax 
notched 44 Cutlery 7 Hop-! 45 World or 8 -ofCieves wise 
9 Mill. 
46 Stock unit 
products 47 -asa 10 Roundup beet 11 Heavens 49 Fltone 
carrier within 12 Spring another 
month 50 Cat's-paw 15 Shelled 51 Wordwlth 21 Cather angel or 
, 22 Litchi, duke e.g. 52 European 25 Balneation capital 28 Solo 53 Audltman 27-the lily 58 Notice 
ACROSS 1 Tattletale 5 Key letter 9 Chick-pea 
13 So.Amer. 
capital 14 Gyves 16 List 17 Despot 18 Indicate 19 Without 
doing 
anything 20 "Wind of -" 23 Bona­24 Cars 25 Rollswlt!J 
holes 28 Geological faults 
30 Milton's rebel angel 
31 Facility 32 "-It 

Isn't So" 35 Be quixotic 39 Taken In 40 Forwarded 41 Cooling 42 Cautlou1s 44 Motor p11rt 45 Canadian 
physician 47 Sacred 
bull 48 Wouk w1t»rk 53 Blacken 54 Before sis 
or surgeon 
Wednesday's Solution 

5/22/81
©1981 by Chicago Tribune-N.Y. News Synd. Inc. All Rights Reserved 
Welcome to An Tosta/1981, an ND-SMC production of spring welcoming festivities. Come join in lbts spirit-fre, celebratirh. 'jg away those academic blues! of Gallic origin. A 1: 1 1i ~· (est Visit the senior bar starting on awaitsye... wicked Wednesday, continuing 


tbru Saturday.

Weekfmcg f»acb 
During An Tostal, the Om­budsman will be answering ques­tions about event times places...Call OBUD at 6283. ' 

1\,:a.. Soee Come one come all...Test your U\II4JOj cycling expertise in the An Tostal 
Show someone you care with a Bike Race. Race starts in front of bit o' the Irish twist. Sign up for .LeMans Hall at 5 p.m. Questions either seroice at the dining balls. call Bill at 8537. 
• 

ilpHt...Crucee Race ....:::II~IJ 
Here'syourcbanc·e to sendyour favorite person swimming. Races start at 4 p.m. on Lake Marion, SMC. Advance regil>tration man­datory. Come join the Thursday fun tJt 

Parlier.~ beware.' rbe An 1iostal

SMC starting with outdoordining ~ '· and plenty offun picnic games. committee bringsyou the 2nd an­. nual Beer Garden -A last chance
Tar bottom string band (a livelyIrish group) will be performing to get your spring ya-yas out and for your listening pleasur·e. dancin' about. Eddie O'Neale will Limited coex tickts, available provide the music, we'll provide the beer and soft drinks.
from An Tostal ball rep. 


Look to The Observer again 
tomorrow for more An Tostal .. 
UJPdates. Let yourselfgo...An Tostal 1981. 

.
' . 

------------------------------------------~~---------------------------------------------------------------------------­
The Observer Thursday, April23, 1981 -page 13 
On diamond 
Irish chase records 
By TIM LARKIN 
Sports Wrlf(>r 
A~ the old saying goes, records arc madt· to be 'broken, and tht· 19H I Notre Dame baseball team can attest to that. By the close of this year's l·ampaign. as many as dgth in­dividual records could be brokt·n. 
Wht·n thinking of baseball records, the batting avt·ragt· is one of tht· most pronounced. George Brett had the entire country's attention as he was trying to break the magic .400 mark. Although Brett missed that covenant average, Dave Bartish of tht· 19HO Irish team was success­ful. For the first time in Notre Dame hao;t·ball history a player baned over .400 wht·n he finished at .422. 
Lacrosse team downs MSU 
The Notre Dame lacrosse team 
earned a soggy H-5 decision yester­
day afternoon over visiting Michigan 
State at the Cartier Lake. Notre 
Dame freshman Steve Pearsall and 
senior Tim l.lnehan each scored two 
goals and an assist. 
Irish goalie Tim Michels turned 
away 23 Spartan shots. Dave Sanford 
of Michigan State stopped 10. 
Rich O'Leary's Irish are now 4-5 
on the year and 3-4 in Midwest 
Lacrosse Association action. The 
win snapped a four-game home 
losing strt•ak for Notn· Dame. 
The Irish will be in action Satur­day afternoon at I p.m. in their final home gamt· of the st·ason against the Lords of Kenyon College. 
• • • Rain 
continuedfmmpage 16 
wt·nt to NEBO's II, who topped 
Squidley's, 21-6. 
In the day's big upst·t, ninth­
ranked US, one of tht· crowd 
tavorites from last year's ·tourney, 
was knocked out of compt·titiun by 
Take This Hall... in a hard-fought, 
four-point game. 
Ont· of the longest games of the 
tournamt·nt, at least as far as time is 
concerned, went on through the 
rain at tht· Bookstore, as Gimme_.Hett 
t•arned a Sweet Sixteen bt·rth by 
outlasting Touch ofClass, 27-25. 

Yet, it appears that Bartish's record will be short lived. With roughly two-thirds of the season completed, Jim Montagano is leading the Irish with a .433 clip. 
The single season batting average isn't the only record which Mon­tagano might erase. His 39 base hits leads the team and is only nine hits short from the record set by Rich Gonski in 1963. 
Indicative of the outstanding of­fensive season, Montagano could break the Irish hits record, but not be the record holder. Henry Valen­zuela had a poor Easter weekend at the plate that saw his average drop below .400, but he still has 37 hits for the season. 
An even closer race between these two excellent ball players is in the RBI column. Both players have 29 RBI for the year and they might exceed the Notre Dame RBI record ofPat Topolski's of 4I set in I965. 
This record breaking barrage be­tween the two ·doesn't 1:nd here. Montangano has eight doubles and Valenzuela has seven and if these two keep it up, they would surpass the Irish doubles record of ten held by Shaun Fitzmaurice ('63 ), Elmer Kohorst ('57) and Bob Senecal ('57). 
Two Irish players have their eyes set on another mark. Dan Szajko leads the Irish in runs scored with 
ALL DAY SPECIALS 
4pm-closing 
Can beer 60¢ 
Bar cocktails Hi -balls 75¢ 

Live entertainment Thursday 9 -1 Friday 9-2 
TIO'S IRISH PU 
4609 Gr,ape Road, 

(J.M.S. Plaza) between Edison & Douglas 
31, and Valenzuela is just behind with 29. The record of their teammate Mike Jamieson of 36 from last seaon is in jeopard t y. 
When asked ifhe was aware ofthis record setting performance by his players, coach Larry Gallo says, "I knew we were hitting the ball good, 
and  I'm  not  surprised.  But  we  
haven't been  satisfied  with  the  
season."  

Like any coach would, Gallo decmphasizes the records. ''I'm not very concerned with the records, I just want to win 20 games." 
The Irish stand 1 5-I2-I so far with 
• I2 games to play, so Gallo's goal seems a certainty. The Irish will play in the four-team Northwestern Tournament this tomorrow and Saturday in Chicago. 
One Notre Dame mark already has been erased. Dan Szajko has stolen I I bases, beating the old mark of eight by Frank Fiascki and Dave Lasseri in I976. On the verge of a record is George lams. His 31 walks is just two away from the Notre Dame record of 33 by Rick Pullano in 1977. 
The last individual record under assult is total bases. Montagano has the total bases mark within reach. He's collected 66 bases this season and should break the record 82 set in 1964 by Shaun Fitzmaurice and Rich Gonski. 



Irish catcherjim Montagano could single-handedly rewrite much of the Notre Dame baseball record book by the end of the 1981 season. (Photo byjohn Macor) 
FILM ON:x~~= 

ARGENTINA, LAND OF PEACE AND FUTURE ALL YOU WANTED TO KNOW ABOUT THIS GREAT SOUTHAMERICAN COUNTRY A. NUMBER ONE IN WORLD SOCCER 
B. EUROPEAN CITIES, BEAUTIFUL . 
.. ARCHITECTURE 
C. 100°/o AGRICULTURAL LAND 
D. GAUCHOS, PAMPAS, ETC. 
WE WILL BE HONORED BY THE PRESENCE OF THE ARGENTINE CONSUL DON RICARDO QUADRI 
NO LIBRARY AUDITORIUM 3:30 pmSATURDAY APRIL 25th 
~FREE ADMISSION 
After your lastexam, l what toughquestions will you still be facing? 

W: don't -have your answers. But we'll listen to your questions. 
share some of our own about who we want to become ' and where we want to journey. 
For anyone who has considered the path of priesthood, the Holy Cross Fathers' One· Year Candidate Program provides an oppartunity to ask and explore the passibilities in community. 
II 
Contoct 

Rev. Andre Leveille. C.S.C. 
Voc~tion Director Bo• 541 
Notr• Dame, IN 46556 
(219) 283-6385 
., 


--------------------~-----------­
The Observer Thursday, April23, 1981 -page 14 
All PITTSBURGH Club members· Announcing Electionslll 
Applications for those members wanting to 

~-----noRMLIFE 
CRAMPING 
YOUR STYLE? 

DOUBLES 
continuedfrom page 15 No. 1 -Hopwood&Hoyer (NO) del. Sandler&King 7-6, 6-3. No. 2 -Yorimoto&Asher (MS) del. McMahon&Falvey 3-6, 6-4, 6-2. 
'fit f&X
WMWATER POLO**'' 
No. 3 -Wickman&Amaya (MS) del. Tim Noonan&Paulldzik 6-4,6-1 
AnTostal Monday's Results Inner Tube Water Polo Notre Dame 8, Purdue 1 Yesterday's Results 
SINGLESFirst Round Matches No. 1 -Mark McMahon (NO) del. AdamThe Lust Bombers del. Z. D.'s Pros 


'NOTRE DAME 
Abele 7-5,5-7,6-4. 
Rum Rats del. The Salamanders No. 2 -Herb Hopwood (NO) del. BroQuarterfinal Matches Valantine 1-6.6-1.6-1. 
Corb's Army del. B. P. Bombers No. 3 -Mark Hoyer (NO) del. Alan Kauf­Today's Games


AVE.. APTS 
man 6-2, 6-4. 
Quarterfinal Matches No.4 -Jim Falvey (NO) del. Matt Friedman 6:00-Moby Dick & the S ... Whales v. The
I 
6-3,6-4.
Pack 
No. 5 -Tom Hartzell (NO) del. Dan Ford6:40 -Blondie Dagwood v. The Water 6-3.6-4.
Rats
2bedrooms 
No.6-Tom Robison (NO) del. Frank Reh­7:20-The Lust Bombs v. Rum Rats winkel6-2,6-1.

completely furnished 

DOUBLES No. 1 -Valentine&Abele (P) del. Hoyer&Hopwood 8-7 (pro set) No. 2 ­

completekitchen 
McMahon&Falvey iND) del. Kauf­man&Friedman 8-3 (pro set) No. 3-Tim
Saturday's Results 


Noonan&Paul ldzik (NO) Tom 
Notre Dame 5, Michigan State 4 • 
Hoover&Charles Conley 6-3, 6-1. SINGLES No. 1 -Mark McMahon (NO) del Matt 

off-streetparking 
Yesterday's Results 
Sandler6-3. 7-5. 
Northwestern 6, Notre Dame 3 

up to 4 students 
No. 2 -Herb Hopwood (NO) del. Scott 
King6-1,6-4. SINGLES No. 3 -Steve Yorimoto (MS) del. Mark No.1.-Mark McMahon (NO) del. Paul Wei Hoyer3-6. 6-1,6-4. 3-6, 7-6 (5-2), 6-4. 

$340-$360I month 
No. 4-Jim Falvey (NO) del. Jordy Asher No. 2 -Mark Balkin (NU) del. Herb Hop­6-3. 3-6, 6-3. wood 3-6, 6-2. 6-3. No.5-Tom Hartzell (NO) del. Jet! Wick­No.3-Jon Kamisar (NU) del. Mark Hoym 
man 6-4. 6-4. 2-6. 6-2. 7-6 (5-0). No.6-Francisco Amaya (MS) del. Tom No.4-Steve Quamme (NU) del. Jim Fal­

callr234-6647 < I
-

I 
Dame name and diploma likely will serve us often and barrassment they have caused, and are continuing to well in the so-called real world. But for every person cause the entire University, its graduates and friends, is 
I 
who will give a Notre Dame graduate the benefit ofthe inexcusable. 

• • • sp~ortsboard 
~~..-.~·-·--·....··-··-··-·-·--~ Robison 6-4. 6-~. vey 6-3. 2-6, 6-4. 
THIS EXECUTIVE SUITE HAS NO KEY TO THE WASHROOM 
...but, then, it's designed to stay ahead of the competition 
~-···
~­
It's not easy to manage a multi-million dollar plane. 
You have to put a college degree in your pocket 
and specialized training in your head before you're r!fady to travel. The United States Air Force gives you the finest training in the world-Officer Training 
School and Pilot Training-designed to get you on 
top and keep you there. And you'll discover, as 
many have before you, that the training and the 
preparation was well worth the effort to join the 
fraternity of supersonic men in positions of real leadership. When you're checked out for the 
executive suite, your starting salary will be more 
than annually, not counting the many other benefits. WhEm you're at 57,000 feet, you REALLY see the world! 

Air Force•••A Great Way of Life 
Tha Air Force Pilot and Navigator Interview S A· r. R · 1 
Team will be aJt the South Bend Ramada Inn ee your IT rOTCe eCTUiter nOW • on April 24th. Stop by and discuss your future as an Air Force Flying Officer. 
• • • Apology? 
No. 5 -Bill Schaefer (NU) del. Tom 
Hartzell3-6, 7-5. 6-2. No.6-Tim Noonan (NO) del. Tom O'Fiynn 7-6 (5-1). 6-3. 
DOUBLES No. 1 -Wei&Balkin (NU) del. Hop­wood&Hoyer6-4, 5-7,6-4. No. 2 -Schaefer&O'Fiynn (NU) del. McMahon&Falvey 6-3, 6-2. No. 3 -Noonan&Paul ldzik (NO) del. Kaminsar&Tom Benezra 7-5.6-3. 
Next Match: Kalamazoo, Saturday, Courtney Tennis Center. 1 p.m. Notre Dame Record: 21-9. 

Indiana lntercolleglstes at Bloomington. Ind. Notre Dame Finishers 
10,00CHneter Run -Dan Shannon (4th) 32:27.55, Dan Walsh (5th) 32:39.64 3QO.metar Steeplech•e -Mike Maney (5th) 
9:21.52 ~eter Relay-Notre Dame (6th) :43.66 15QO.meter Run -Chuck Aragon (2nd) 3:45.06. 
Andy Dillon (5th\ 3:52.16 11Q.meter High Hurdles-Dave Bernards (5th) 
:14.92, John McCiaughon (6th) :14.97 Javelin -George Petras (5th) 167·9.5 400 Intermediate Hurdl..-Tom Twardzik (5th) 
:53.96 
201Hnater D•h -Jacques Eady (6th) :21.59 16QO.mater Relay -Notre Dame (3rd) 3:15.39 Triple Jump-Brian Mcauliffe (5th) 45-6 Pole YMIII-Mike Noland (5th) 15·2.25 
FINAL TEAM STANDINGS 
1.1ndiana  268  
2.1ndiana State  103.87  
3.Purdue  69.33  
4.Ba11State  55.33  
s.NotreD....e  31  
6.Bu!ler  16  
7.DePauw  12.5  
B.Rose·Hulman  9  
9Wabash  6  
(tie) Valparaiso  6  

.-------------­
Go Professional 
With a Calculator 
From Hewlett-Packard 


PO BOX 134-7­
SOUTH BEND. IN 46624 (219) 233-3175 
15% Discount offList Pnce to Students & Professors 
F~3 HEWLETT ~"'".JII PACKARD 
continuedfrom page 16 
pass up on one ofhis recent morning shows. 
But "Elephant Walk Mania" is hitting even closer to home, as members of the Notre Dame baseball team will readily attest. During Saturday's doubleheader with the Unive·rsity of Detroit, the Irish were taunted inces­santly about the rugby team's parade in Houston. 
Whether we like it or not, each student at Notre Dame has an implicit obligation to act in a socially ac­ceptable manner while representing the University in an official or a semi-official capacity. While such a thought-may at first reek of soap boxes and sermons, there is also a practical consideration for cynics who are unimpressed by such morality. 
Although our football and basketball teams may relax in swank hotels during their cross-country trips, many Notre Dame teams often cannot affotd such a luxury. In many instances, gracious alumni and friends ofthe Uni­versity open their homes to traveling Notre Dame ath­letes. Ifthese Notre Dame teams disrobed and marched through these private homes, it is a safe bet that they wouldn't be invited back. 
The implications of the rugby players' beha;vior ex­tend past the bounds of the athletic world. As students at Notre Dame, we live in a glass house. The Notre doubt precisely because he is a Notre Dame grad, there is another who will despise him for the same reason. 

An incident such as the one in Houston simply fuels the fire. Notre Dame is widely respected and widely hated largely because it demands excellence of itself and the members .of its community. When such demands are not met, the wolves are quick to pounce. 
Here on campus, the rugby players struck a savage blow upon the battle for student rights. 
Each year there is a great hue and cry over "in loco parentis," that convenient phrase that the University uses to justify everything from parietals to its anti­quated keg policy. But now, thanks to 30 rugby players, who comprise less than one percent of the student body, the Administration has a tailor-made argument in favor of"in loco parentis." 
There is one aspect, though, that is even more disturbing than the original incident, and that is the rugby club'sfailure to publicly apologize for its actions. 
I hardly fancy myself in any kind of positiQn to cast the proverbial first stone. And maybe, after a few too many beers, su<:h behavior is understandable, if not condonable. 
But by now, it should be safe to assume that the rugby players have sobered up from their Spring Trip. And with that in mind, their failure to apologize for the em­
* 


~j1()1"tScJl=:~=:i=e~~JS=s========~====================T=h=u=rs=da=y=,A=p=ril=2=3=,1=9=B=I~p=~=e=I~5 
by The Oh.rert•t•r and Tht• AHt)aated Pro.r 
The playOfiS COntinued in both the NBA and the NHI.last night. tarry Bini scored 23 of his game-high 34 points in the first half to lead the Boston Celtics to an easy 118-99 win over the Philadelphia 76ers, in the Eastern Conference championship series. Balanced scoring was the key for Boston, as Kevin McHale had 20, Nate Archibald 19, and Robert Parrish 17 as the Celtics tied that series at one game apiece. Reggie King also had a big first half, scoring 21 of his 31 points, to lead the Kansas City Kings to an 88-79 win over the Houston Rockets. Phil Ford, playing in only his second game since February 22, had thn·e key points and a number of assists for the Kings, who tied that series at one game apiece as well. Meanwhile, in the NHL, the Minnesota North Stars downed the Buffalo Sabres, 4-3 to advance to the semifinals. Three teams that had to win to stay alive did -as Edmonton beat the defending champion New York Islanders, 4-3, Philadelphia eased by the Calgary Flames, 9-4, and the St. Louis Blues just got past the New York Rangers, 4-3. Calgary and both New York teams lead those series, three games to two. -AP 

Yeaterdey'a Reaulta Sectional Chemplonahlpe 
Stepen 1 Take This Ball & Shove It over US by 4 The Assassins over Cotton Pony Tony by8 
Stepen2 Chipigula & the Debauchers over Athletes Out of Action by 12 
T.P.S. over Quick Shot & the Embarrassing Stains by4 
Stepen3 Hill's Angels over Dorothy Stratten & The In-Your­Face Kids by 13 Masters of Disaster over The Buzzards by 13 
Stepen 4 Jackson 5 over Big Organ & His Bouncing Balls, 23-21 inOT 
Booketorell Glmme Hett over A Touch of Class, 27-25 in OT NEBO'S II over The Squidleys by 15 
T.B. E•press over McNamara's Band by 10 
Bookatore 10 Tequila White Lightning over Nell's A.C.M.P.'s by 15 WEBB's End over Visual Orgasm by 8 Return of the Nulmeggers over The Bricklayers by 10 
Lyona11 Re-classified Nads over Jim Pink& the Blues by 11 Head Over Heels over 4 Jerks & a Dribbler by 9 
Lyona12 W Pace over Doug Walsh & the Hogh Rates by 3 
WOMEN'S BOOKSTORE 2nd ROUND Yeaterdey'e RHulta 
Stepen1 Take It On The Run over B.P. Benders by 13 
Stepen5 Loonie Rooney's & Co. over Basket Cases by 15 Immoral Minority over Mary Murphy by 14 Bean Hayeds over Miss Iowa by 12 Hot Stuff II over Cindy Batte I by 2 
Stepene Nothing But Gold over The Return Of The Drib­bling Uvulas by 10 Short But Sweet over We Bad by 7 Your Mother over The Hacks by 14 
L.K.S.FA over Lyons, Tigers, and Bears by 2 
.......7 

Guy's Gals over Mara Hart by 12 Filed Five over Just For Laughs by forfeit To Be Named In The Finals over Volleyball Players... by t4 
Stepenl Oreo's over Besoc 500's by 13 The Graduates over Crime & Punoshment by 14 Four Babes & AD W over 20th Century Fo•es by 13 Big Mac & The Quarter Pounders over Lee Ann Dargas by 13 
Todey'e GemH 

Stepen6 4:45-Hot Stuffjl )1'. LK.S.F.A. 5:30-Take It On The Run v. Big Mac & The Quar­ter Pounders 
Stepan& 4:45-lmmoral Monorityv Short But Sweet 5:30-To Be Named In Finals v. Four Babes & A 
ow. 

Stepen7 4:45-Bean Hayeds v. Your Mother 5:30-Guy's Gals v. Oreo's 
Stepenl 4:45-Loonie Aooney's& Co. v. Nothong But Gold 5:30-Filed Five v. The Graduates 
See SPORTSBOARD, page 14 
All r.lasalf,t-d acJs nHJ~I he rer:e1vea by 4 45 p m two days pr1.:H 'o the 
ISSI,r> 111 wlr11d, thP-a<1 15 run Thll!t Observer off,ce wlli accept cl::tss•' eds 
Muncl:11• thrniJQh Fndt~\ 10 00 .=t m H') lj 00 p m All r.l.lSSifl••ds .,.,ust b£'




Classifieds 
pn:-p,lu1 ,~~ hP.r 1n pt>rson or !hro1Jgh '"e mdt: 
. . . . .. . . ... . .... . . . . . . . . . . . .. . .. . . . . ..... . . . . . . . '.... . ... . .... SURPLUS JEEPS, CARS, TRUCKS Ken Neu is Funky I And it came to pass that on Wednes­Megan. Car-inv. value $2143 sold for $100. Call day, April 22 at 4:05 p.m. EST, a star Hope you had a Happy Easter. Good
ll--N_O_TIC_E_S___Jl I FOR RENT:=] 
602-941-8014 Ext. 3648. Many other Ann: Here is you 1,000,000 personal came out of the south, bearong the luck with finals and I'll be home soon II bargains available. this year, and I still have not received name "Bone" and bringing good XOXO DE IN SPATZ USED & OUT-OF-PAINT BOOKS one yettl! Do you think this i!; a one­tidongs and a wealth of Bookstore Bas­P.S. Gonna save me a place on the
SUMMER APARTMENT Fully 
sided relationship?? Come on youfurnished-equipped one-bedroom apt
bought, sold, searched ERASMUS FIAT X19 Sportscar. 48,000 miles, Red. ketball tradition. Deep Creek Dock? 
BOOKS. Tues-Sunday, 12-6. 1027 E. Moving, must sell. First $1900 take it. cheap-skate. spend some money on WELCOME BONE BOURAETIII 
available for summer(5-15 or 8-15). 
mel It is about time females spent

Call (616) 684-4191. Dear Fishy Face, Lozzoe ad all those stollWayne (one block south of Eddy­
Located in popular apt. complex and money on their male counterparts. 
loyal to the Kellen berg fan club. 
Jetteraon intersection) includes color tete., A-C, dtshes & uten­Come on, I have feelings too! Karen Phelan. 
72 CHEVY Impala, 4-dr., air, power. Although I'm far away on Me•ico. Isils, etc. Closest apt. to club house and NEW BRAKES, EXHAUST, TUNE UP. Signed: unappreciated in 215 Thank you ever so much. You've got thonk of you and miss you tons. You'llINSTANT CASH PAID FOR CLASS pool. Rent: $205-mo&utlls. Deposit re­
......... .. ............W..""" ...........

Uses reg. gatr. VERY GOOD CONDI­a wonderful family to be proud of. have to blame my lack of letters on theRINGS $20-$85 OR MORE. WE MAKE quired. 277-7392 
Dear Moe and Chris D .. Love, 

slow Me•lcan mail. Throw a Frisbee on I just wanted to write you this per­P.K. the quad in my honor 
HOUSE CALLS 255-2402 TION. $995. 256-2815 
AVAILABLE SUMMER AND NEXT 
sonal so that you know that I wanted SCHOOL YEAR 5 BEDROOM HOUSE,
TYPING, MODEST RATES, 233-9491. For sale. 72 pontoac catalina. call ERIN Con embrazos y besos 
the glasses on the bar washed out and AITENTION PHOTOGRAPHERS WHO 1 AND 3 BEDROOM APARTMENTS 
234-6298 Jeanie 
the dirty socks off my speakers. Also APPLIED FOR POSITIONS ON THE OB­TYPING--Only $ 65 a page. Call Dan. 

234-2626 

could you please put some more SERVER STAFFIIIII A list of next year's Once upon a time, on a land far. far
272-5549 For sale. Sears Kenmore cubicle 
peanut butter on !he knife that is be­staff and alternate photographers Is away. Mr. and Mrs. Goode had a son. House For Rent 919 So Bend Ave. 5 refrigerator. EKcellent condition. Call 
hind the bar because the roach is placed outside of the OBSERVER They named him Jom. They knew that
PROFESSIONAL TYPING Term Jean2958.
bedrooms. 2 baths Call Tom McGann 
h~ngry. Thank you, your loving roomie office (3rd floor La Fortune). There will someday he would do great thongs.
papers, theses, etc. Tape transcroptoon. 
277-3461 or 272-9299 

who is also cool as heck. be a mandatory meetong for all those "Maybe he'll be a doctor," hos molher people whose 'names are on the list. II saod. "Maybe he'll be the President,"
Last year's same lclw pnces. All work This is a "brief" advertisement to you 
guaranteed aardvark automatic solu­domer preppies. We are two former
House for SUMMER -LOW RENT OR 
Dear Jim and Jim's girlfriend, will be held at 7:30 P.M. on Sunday. hos father saod. "But whatever he WORK FOR RENT CALL 277-346t OR
tions 289-6753 SMiC chicks and feel it is our place to 
brochures are botinglll April 26 at the OBSERVER office. For becomes," they agreed. he'll be 272-9299 monogram underwear. Your wardrobe 
all who applied, application forms and VERY ugly "JIM GOODE FOR UMOC per son a I riD. pa ir . They make great 
WILL DO TYPING. CALL 287-5t62 just isn't complete without VO'-" ONn 
submitted photographs can be pickedFOR RENT: One ugly person. Great for 
STUDENTSIll 

up today between 2:00 and4:00 P.M. at If JEFFERS IS Vinyl. then GOODE IS scaring baboes, or ending boring
PRO MAKES THE CHILDREN CAY g ofts .Theassetsoflh isbarga inard IF YOU LIVE ON THE NORTHSIDE 
the OBSERVER office. An alternate Corduroy. JIM GOODE FOR UMOC. parties. Call JIM GOODE. 
SUITER MAKES PRO CAY l:Jm of paynent can be negot latiD in CHICAGO AREA, CALL US NOWI WE pickup time also will be arranged.
per son .
VOTE FOR SUITER WANT BRIGHT, AGGRESSIVE STU­

Thank you to all who applied. BONE IS BACK II -Ca II Ju I ie (2911 )O!lorda (2918)EVERYBODY'S CUTER DENTS TO SELL RADIO ADS OVERSTAYING IN SOUTH BEND THIS SUM­BONE IS BACK II -Mutua I sal i sfact ion is guaranteiDSUITER FOR UMOC THE PHONE. THIS SUMMER.
MER? RENT OUR CAMPUSVIEW 
WANTED: One chocolate Easter bun­BONE IS BACK II APARTMENT 2 BEDROOMS, 2 
NATIONWIDE. SUPER PAY POTEN­ny. Money no objectI Call Dave RICHAlP ME OFFI MUST SELL 5 CASES

SURVEY TIAL! IF YOU QUALIFY. WE'LL
BATHROOMS, FULLY FURNISHED. anytime at 1789. GOODE IS BADII GOODE IS BADII
POOL CHLORINE YOU CALL PRICE
Interested on a photography club? GUARANTEE YOU POSITION AND
CHEAPIII CALL CATHY 4-1-4360 AF­
GOODE IS BAD!I GOODE IS BAD II JIM TEA6P.M. 
277-8561
-·Use of Keenan's darkroom lacllotoes. PAYI CALL TIM -FREE -9:00-5:00, KENTUCKIANS ELECTION HAPPY GOODE for UMOC--Lessons on developong and pnnting. 
MON. THAU FRL CALL NOWI 1-800­HOUR THIS FRIDAY AUGUSTA(SMC)Call Carl at 3346 Wed-Fro. 621-6426. 
4-? DON'T MISS ITIIIIIIIIIIII MONK4UMOC 
............... 
MONK4UMOC

NOTICE I need three grllduatlon tlckata. Cell JOHN SAIGH FOR UMOC--NOBODY MOC 4 UMONK MOC 4 UMONK 
Anyone who sees JIM GOODE, avert Joe Conroy at 1570.
I -IL,___T_IC_K_ETS---JI 
DOES IT UGLIER your eyes to avo1d pam. 

OAEST for UMOC Male housemate wanted for 81-82 Bill Clark and Tony Lucoa for ....................\.
DID YOU KNOW I need 3 (that's three) graduation tick­ALL PIITSBURGH CLUB MEMBERS-­
school year. Call •1075 for information UMOC...Ugllest Mutants On Campus. OAEST os lhe POOREST
ets. (Yes, folks, it's starting already.) If
thal Jim Goode was born on South WE WILL HAVE ELECTIONSIII All Bend, but now lives in Texas? JIM members wanting to run for office can
you can help me, call Scoop a11772. 
NEED AIDE TO INDIANAPOLIS OR I U SENIOR OC AND 5th YEAR WOMEN:
GOODE FOR UMOC Whal a loser pick up applications at the STUDENT
Need roders to BGSU or Canton, Ohio BLOOMINGTON THIS WEEKEND WILL Buy Tickets for Senior Women's Din­
NEEDED MANY TICKETS FOR GAADA­ACTIVITIES OFFICE (first floor
(or poonts between) on Froday. April24. PAY$$$---CALL JULIE (SMC) K4084 ner -THURSDAY and FRIDAY on
TION.CALL TIMAT16500A1868
WE CLONE CASSEITESIII LaFortune) starting APRIL 21 to MAY 1 
Leavong 1 p.m. Call Joe 1840 LAFORTUNE from t 2:30-1 :30 or Call
Bnng any cassette into our store and from 9:00-3:00. Elections will take 1980 CAR STUFFING CHAMPS Liz Boo at 277-0482 GRADUATION TICKETS NEEDED.
you can make as many copies as you place at the luggage truck loading.
Wanted: housemate for ne•t year. Call REUNITE Ill RESERVE A SEAT FOR
WILL PAY$$. Call Jean 7130. 
want FREE by somply purchasong our 
<.88-8726 or 6821 REPEAT PERFORMANCE ON FRI. 4-24 JOHNNY ANGEL-JUST WHEN YOU
Aezound copy cassettes PLUS woth a Jeff Jeffers is ugly. But even if he's not AT 3:30CALLSTEVE AT 86300A 864 t. THOUGHT THE CARNATION WASNeed 2 GRADUATION TIX. Will pay bog
50 percent off coupon we woll sell you THE ugliest guy on campus, he still is
Need roders to Columbus, OH., leaving OVER, ENTER THE
bucks, call Jeff at 8620 
the forst cassette at half proce. Copy 60 THE most deserving of this award.
Fri.. Apri124 Call Jeff t803 GOODE IS BAD I DAISIES...COIIING SOON AT A
monute tapes In 2 monutes. 90 minutes Simply because he deserves it. 
GOODE IS BAD I THEATER NEAR YOU. SIGNED-THE
Do you have tickets for a bus or a train Would like to share Williamsburg-on­GOODE IS BAD I GIRL WITH THE FLIPPY DO, A liAR­In 3 minutes. both aides simultaneous­
or a plane to ANYWHERE? PLEASE, the-Lake apt. thru summer. Fire-place, GOODE IS BAD! IlEA'S FRIEND. pe: en)oy the ftowerat
ly! Offer good through May 31, 1981 at PAPER AIRPLANE CONTESTIII 
give them to JIM GOODE. pool, tennos & racquetball. Good at­This is the week. 
mosphere for study and growth. Jim Goode for UMOC. Hey ESPN. get a real networkf Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore TODAY--4 PM--ANGELA(SMC)II 
Any senlorslookong for a place to live on Need Gr t aduation tickets will pay SENIORS: Are you tired of being
$150.00 mo. 256-6643. BOOKSTORE LIVESII
handsomely call Rick 1932 
Hyde Park while attending U Chicago rejected? Have we just conceded to the REMEMBER: God's only mistake. JIMMBA next fall call Rock 232·0973 after ultimate rejection ...A rejection of rejec­
WANTED One-way plane ticket to GOODEFOAUMOC This new AKe must doe He disturbs me.
Will pay for graduation tickets. Please contact Lorne ASAPII 277-8348 : 283­
midnote tion night? Let's let the staff of Senior
ANYWHERE. Please contact JIM The memory of Control and the galac­
Bar know how we feel and reject their 

GOODE Bless him Father, for he has sinned. He tic batlles must not be sullied by these 
7097.
WILL THE STUDENTS WHO TOOK MY rejection of our greatly deserved rejec­must have. ugly doesn't come cheap. vile impostors. One shall come withTWO LEPAECHAUto.S FROM MY tion night. 
NEED RIDE to Miami-Ft. Lauderdale JIM GOODE FOR UMOC. vengeance in his right hand andFRONT PORCH OVER THE WEEKEND 
AFTER GRADUATION for t or 2 destruction In his left. This Rick must
FOR A PARTY. PLEASE RETURN WILL THERE BE A REJECTION
people. Call John Higgins at 8553 or JIM GOODE FOR UMOC. You've seen know eternal night
THEM NO QUESTIONS ASKED IF NIGHT?
I PERSONALS I
1715 and leave a message better heads on pimples.
NECESSARY, CALL 234-7332. 
LADIES OF SMC-ND! CALL UP TOM 
........... BETH HACKETT--The only grain of
Roch cousin needs 4 GA tickets for USC FLASHIII The FCC has banned JIM MCKENNA AT 1809 OR VJSIT 332 DIL­
Support Scab Cartoonists I truth in the N.D. woman stereotype.
game in fall. Call4373 GOODE. You won't see HIM doong the LON AND KEEP HIM COMPANY, HE

BETH HACKEIT lor UIIOC 

sports on TV. Jim Goode for UMOC, SAYS HE'S LONELYI TOM MCKENNA
ILOST/FOUNDJ 
Women of ND-SMC:WANTED: A VOLKSWAGEN ('72-'76). 
even thdugh he doesn't have a creased FOAUMOC MUST BE IN GOOD RUNNING CONDI­
Wouldn't you like to be alone with Paul IF OFF-CAMPUS HOUSING IS COS­
forehead. TION. CONVERTIBLE IS PREFERRED. 
Joseph Bulow when he "oozes" his TING YOU ABOUT $100 A MONTH AND LOST GOLD MAN'S WEDDING BAND AITENTION BRADY'S CLUB &
character? For more Info. contact Paul YOU ARE NOT GEITING THE BEST, at3151. CALL 291-1405 
CALL CATH 4-1-4380 AFTER 6 P.M. The State ofTeKas 
Ar THE ALBERT PICK ON FRIDAY, FRIENDS DEBt LOTS OF FUN 
Everybody's Favorite DEMARINIS WELCOME 4·24, 6 P M.

APRIL 10 EXTREME SENTIMENTAL IMMEDIATE OCCUPANCY! CAMPUS­BE THEREVALUE AEWAADIII277-0458 
Attention Women of ND-SMC A faithful friend os a sure shelter.
VIEW APARTMENT AVAILABLE FOR As for Mark, he is still seekong a Strat­
The Produce of 1he Year...HOT PAT­one has found rare LOST A football on Madeleva Field. If 
RENT IN MAY. 2 BEDROOMS, 2 whoever finds a ford gorl. BILL "GRIZZ" NELLIST FOR UMOC BATHS, FULLY FURNISHED. CHEAP Ill 
TETA... os now ripe for picking. For treasure. A faithful friend is something you pocked 11 up. please call Janet at He's the type thai has that certaon no­
more Info call Mike at 272-8273 beyond price. there is no measring his 
CALLGAY4-t-4441 AFTER 11 P.M If you don't believe Moke "Gorgar" 
thong. ENDORSED UNANIMOUSLY BY 4t52 worth. A faithful friend is the elixir of Gudak is UGLY, come see him .safely 
LYONS AND FLANNER HALLS !II 
Who Doed?? Find out Sat. at life, and those who fear the Lord will
All roght I'll settle for a ride caged in front of the South Diner. Gur­
FOUND A SUM OF MONEY OUTSIDE 
IRISH WAKE find one. Whoever fears the Lord

ANYWHERE on Floroda AFTER dak os UMOC. 
Grozz takes votamons A. B. C, D. E. F. andOF HAYES-HEALY ON APRIL t4. CALL makes true friends for as a man is, so ISGRADUATION The closer to Miami the G. and stolllooks like H 8908 TO CLAIM 
VOLUNTEERS DESPERATELY his friend. Ecc 6:19-I will not be
better Call John Hlggons at 8553 or HACKEIT FOR UIIOC 
NEEDED ashamed to shelter a fnend, nor will I
1715 and leave a message. 

GAIZZ is so ugly, he looks worse thanFOUND· Watch In front of Walsh Call 
1. People to help paint and possibly hide from his face. Ecc 22:25 Aobon Flynn at2843 and odenlify See Notre Dame's funniest at the An his passporl photo You take one look move things to new location for
Need 2 tickets to Graduation Call Bill Tostal Talent Show today at("lPm at An­at him and wonder whether there were
Phoenix House. week of Aprll21 & 27 Jeff "PAYO" Jeffers for UMOC. Who
1535 gela Athletic Center at SMC. any other survivorSRING FOUND NEAR LIBRARY 
2. Student to talk with elderly man else? BEFORE BREAK. CALL 5240 AT SMC 
about NO.
Dad wants to buy a Canon 28mm wide Ortman. senoors: Doctor Morros Foshbeon andTO IDENTIFY 
Contact Volunteer Services, 7308 Guess who's back in town I The legen­dary Bone Bourret has returned. 
angle lens with old "bayonet" mount Stay away from my woman I Rafael Sabbalino insost thai you see · A 
for FTB-N.Call Ann, 8183. Ancient at AIs Thousand Clowns·· Thursday of SeniorLOST Our lunch when we saw JIM 
$$$$$NEED CASH?$$$$$ GOODE.• 
Week.
Busboys, Waitresses. Waiters and Contucious say, A . LATE SENIOR" FORMAL AN-Riders wanted to Callfornoa (San Fran­
Doshwashers needed for catering at the Nobody uglier than Jeff Jeffers. Not NOUNCEMENT, Congratulations to
cosco area) Leavong NO on or around MEG, on Froday. April10. Please call t612 of BEWARE: THE MUD PITS ARE COM­Lost Blue Lowenbrau hat on Brodgett's 
May 19 (fleKible). Call Jaime between ACC on MONDAY, MAY 2, from 6 to even Frank LaGrotta. Kim Hewitt and Jom Aoedmanllll Happi­found 7-11 p.m.3852. ··············· ,.......................... ness Alwaysllllll INGIIIII
about 1~ p.m. No previous expenence necessary. Pay is $3.50-hour: you will Wisdom is painful I be paod that night. For info contact Tim 
VOTE FOR CEITA! YOU BEITA YOU

FOUND A Gold Weddong Type rong at BARRACUDA,
at283-1169 between 5 and 6:30, before Do you really want to know how ugly BEITER YOU BET I 
the Flary>er Formal AprollO at the ball­Team meetong Sat al the MUDPITS
Aprol2~. Jeff Jeffers is? Just turn on Newscenter 
room call1523 mark Those who show up are etogoble for the
FOR SALE . 16 tonight at 11:00, and you'll see for Mary Coogan: BEER that the CAPTAIN promised. 
M J. Rafferty for UMOC yourself. Remember, he wears makeup Just another e•ample of a Honsdale
LOST ONE GOLD WATCH BETWEEN CAP
on TV. In reality, he's much worse Central female falling for the mystoqueWALSH AND HAYES HEALEY BEFORE For Sale: Atlanta, A Celebration

1e74 vw Super Beetle Good condition, of a Lyon's Township male.
EASTER BREAK IF FOUND, PLEASE 707 SPANKATOAIUM --Death awaits
cheap. mon offer $5. Call1772. Jeffers makes Yoclus look like Bo
Good moleage Call277-7160 Signed.
CALL JANE 8045 you at the MUDPITSIIIII 
Derek. 
The one with sincere eyes 


• ---­
-~ 

Snorts 


Former Irish captain Maggie Lally plays ill yesterday's downpour as the women's Bookstore tournament opened to inclement weather. (Photo by Mike Tuohy) 
Women's games cut short by rain and court time 
By DONNA WITZLEBEN 
Sports Writer 
Second round action in the Womens' Bookstore Basketball Tournament went on last evening, despite constant rain. 
"We had tp play a couple ofgames to 15 due to the weather conditions and the court time.c'said Assistant Commissioner Dave Ross. "I'm glad everybody showed up today. We on­ly had one forfeit." 
In yesterday's games The Return of the ()vulas were downed by \1aggie Lally's team, Nothing But Gold by 10. Lally. a senior guard from Mary DiStanislao's 1981 bas­ketball squad, led her team with five hu<:kets. 
Another varsity player also led her I cam to' ictory. Shari Matvey scored ''' a~ the_ Oreoes breezed past the lla.o;ic 'iOO's. 20-7. 
One game pitteJ two teams featuring ,-arsll) players against each ••ther. Shdla Leibscher's Short Rnt Sweet beat Theresa Mullins' team, We Bad, by seven. 

Tricia McMann us got in the action with her team, Big Mac and the Quarter Pounders. Missy Sorapure led the Quarter Pounders with six points as they knocked off Lee Ann Dargas by 13. 
DiStanislao showed that she can play as well as coach, as her team, Your Mother, hacked The Hacks by 14. 
The loyal bookstore fans were treated to two overtime games. Hot Stuff squeaked by Cindy Batte!, 16­
14. And women's bookstore com­missioner Jean G T rasso's team, 
L.K.S.F.A. beat a tough Lyons, Tigers and Bears team by three. 
The tournament continues today with just 16 teams remaining fom the original field of 40. Tomorrow's quarterfinals will be the first games with referees. 
Assistant Commissioner Ross reminds the remainingparticip t ants that the team listed first, must wear light colors. 
Thursday, April23, 1981 -page 16 
Higgins, Backhus dt:cide 

Changes iilIrish trenches 
ByDAVE IRWIN the number one unit. Senior-to-be the natural instinct, but that is un­
Sports Writer Larry Kissner ( 6-4, 235) has been derstandable because he has never 
hobbled by an ankle injury after played offense before. 
Although the Notre Dame football serving as Scully's back-up last fall. "He is a pleasant surprise. Lord 
team opted not to practice in Wed­Barry Young (6-5, 228), a sopho­knows he works hard at it," Higgins 
nesday's rain, the Irish didn't take more in the fall and a converted added. 
the day off entirely. The team broke guard is tlre third center. Yet another change is the switch 
down into its respective units and "Larry Kissner is a very intelligent of junior l>ete Buchanan from mes­
watched films of the April 1 I and an astute student of football " senger fullback to tight end behind 
scrimmage. Higgins said. Higgins, a fOrmer p;o senior Dean Masztak (6-4, 227). 
One group taking a long hard look offensive lineman himself, notes the "He has things to learn but he is a at footage was Tom Backhus and coaching staff as not had the op­natural tight end," Higgins said. "He John Higgins and the members of porunity to make a full evaluation of has good hands, decent speed and the offensive line. Kissner. r Kissner returned to with the amount of time he has had 
Shouts of "Now that is a good practice Tuesday. to work at it a decent blocker." 
block Shiner," "What did you do 'rhe switch of Fisher has proved Buchanan equid see plenty of 
wrong there Thayer," "Nice tech­rewarding to both him and the playing time as Faust and Company 
nique Poz," "You were too wide on coaching staff. "He has adapted real will probably use a double-tight end 
that one Mike," could be heard from well, but he needs a little bit mon: look often next fall. 
the stilled darkness ofthe projection weight," Higgins said. "He likes cen­Seniors Dave Condeni and Mike 
room in the ACC. But overall Back­ter. It gives more of chance to play. Boushka are both listed with the 
bus and Higgins have to be pleased When he puts on I 5 pounds he is number one unit at split end. Con­
with the youthful Irish line that really going to be a solid center. verted senior quarterback Greg 
began the 1980 campaign as Knafelc also is working out at that 
suspect, only to blossom into one of position. 
the better front-lines in the country. Spring Football'81 Besides Kissner's ankle injury, 
"It's going to take time, but things starting right tackle senior Phil Poz­
are looking good," Higgins said. "It's derac ( 6-9, 260) has also been 
a slightly different blocking hobbled with an ankle injury. 
"You have to remember Barry is 

philosophy. Last year it was more Masztak has been slowed with a 
option hole running. This year we'll only a freshman," Higgins said. "But hamstring pull. 
have more backfield sets and he has shown a lot of improvement Backhus is the head offensive line 
therefore we'll be different in move­this spring." Three of the incom­coach and a 1970 graduate of Ohio ment offthe football and positioning ing freshman, considered by most State. He works mainly with the tight in our blocks." observers to be the best crop in the ends, split ends and the tackles. Hig­One big adjustment was the flip-flop country, will be given a shot this fall. gins oversees the guards and the of junior guard Tom Thayer ( 6-5, But Irish fans shouldn't expect to centers. 
258, and generally considered to be much to soon ofTom Doerger ( 6-4, Irish Items: JuniorJeff Lueken un­one strongest members ofthe team) 230),Joe Fazio (6-4, 245) and Martv derwent knee sugery Wednesday. and junior tackle Mike Shiner (6-7," Roddy(6-6, 250). -He tore ligaments in Tuesday's 250). But the move shouldn't be "You never know until you get a practice and probably will miss looked upon with total surprise by look at them," Higgins said. "I much of the fall season. Two incum­the faithful Irish following. wouldn't think any of them would bants, sophomre quaterback Blair 
"In all fairness, Brian Boulac and break into the starting line-up. It is Kiel and junior fullback John Bill Meyers (last year's offensive line awful hard for a freshman to start on Sweeny are being pressed for their coaches) were thinking of it last the offensive line." positions. Sweeny and junior Larry year, but because ofthe success they Neil Maune ( 6-5, 235 ), has sat oult Moriarty are listed as a dead heat as were having they decided not to most of his first two years with are senior Tim Koegel and Kiel on switch," Higgins said. "But so far it is shoulder problems, looks strong and the depth chart. Sophomore Tim 
working out great." is currently backing Randy Ellis up a1t Marshall will sit out the remainder of Higgins feels the attributes ofeach left guard. If his shoulder continues spring drills while his elbow is men­athlete is well suited for the switch. , to stay in place he could provide the ding. Senior Tom Bock is taking his -"Our tackles will do a lot ofdrive all-important depth that is always place on the defensive line. Tony blocking and blocking on the down needed during the course of the Hunter has started practicing after a man on the defensive line. The season. sore ankle and will start learning the guards need to be fluid and fast so "Neil has done some things very, a new postilion -wingback. He is 
they can pick up the linebacker," very well," Higgins said. "He needs• currently listed second team behind Higgins said. "Mike is more fluid in more consistency. He doesn't have senior Tim Tripp. pulling and Tom Thayer is stronger on the down men." With All-American John Scully receiving his diploma this May, one 
Rain dampensplayers,
gapping whole the Irish must fill is 
the center position. The brain trust 
of the Irish feel this position will be 

fans atsectionalfinals 
crucial to the success Notre Dame enjoys ~ or doesn't -this fall. By FRANK l..aGROTTA Nature decides to send South Bend
"Replacing a center is always and SKIP DESJARDIN in the next four days. No one is
tough. In al!y offensive philosophy Sports Writers spared once the final 64 Bookstore
the center has to be the best of­teams are determined.
fensvie line man," Higgins said. "You There are some days when even No. I ranked Jackson 5 had their
need both intelligence and skill. He Bookstore Basketball should not toughest game of the tournament,
is the quarterback of the offensive 
line." 

take place. Yesterday was one of but pulled out a 23-2I overtime win them. For almost four hours, teams over Big Organ... when Steve Notar­Mark Fisher ( 6-4, 220), another swam -uh, played -for the right ro sunk a free throw.
junior in the fall and a converted to join the I98I Sweet Sixteen. WEBB's End took on Visual 0 .... a
tight end, is currently running with A steady, driving rain soaked rival from imerhall competition, and 
players, referees, and spectators as once again came away with a win.Fro1n ruggers the I Oth edition of this tournament The eight-point decision sends the 
continued yesterday. It began in club to the Sweet Sixteen fot the mid-afternoon and continued second year in a row. 
So, where~s the apology? through the games, oblivious to th4: The Fourth-ranked Assassins importance ofthe contests going on defeated fellow-football players Cot­
On the bright side, we have shattered a myth. Chuck Aragon. Notre Dame's gifted -track star. was the subject ofa Page 3 feature in Monday's Chicago Tribune sports section, proving that, in at least one instance, you don't have to play for Digger or Gerry to make the big time. 
Unfortunately, the Notre Dame rugby club went Aragon a whole lot better. Thirty members of that or­ganization proved that you don't even have to play for a varsity team to gain national recognition. It's too bad, as we're all so painfully aware, that the rugby players gained their notoriety while out of uniform. Literally. 
Likewise, it's too bad that everyone at Notre Dame must now pay the price for a terrible lack ofdiscretion on the part of 30 people. But that's exactly what is. happening. 
Thanks to the national wire services, the entire below. 

•It was a day for roaring fires, hot chocolate, and a good friend to stay close to. It was a day to take a nap or watch drops trickle down the win­dow pane. For normal people, it was a day to stay inside. But Bookstore fans are not normal. 
Considering the adversity, the crowds were very respectable, and! they were rewarded for their hearti-­ness by getting the chance to see some great-basketball. 
Every team left in the tournament was subjected to the wind and rain, as they will be to whatever Mom ton Pony Tony by eight to advance, while No. 5 W Pace squeaked by Doug Walsh... by a mere three. 
In other soggy action, the tourna­ment's sixth-ranked team Chipigula... marked the return ofGil Salinas by downing Athletes Out of Action by I2. Meanwhile, No. 7 T.B. Express continued to roll, topping McNamara's Band by 10. 
No. 8 Masters of Disaster d<!Stroyed Buzzards by I3, the second biggest rout of the day. The honors for the most lop-sided game 
See RAIN, page 13 






