-. 
.. 
Bruce -pages 6, 7
' ' ' 

VOL XV, NO. 80 an independent srudent newspaper serving notre dame and saint mary's THURSDAY,JANUARY29, 1981 
Jerusalem sovereignty 
Black-well stresses independence 
By MIKE O'BRIEN 
Kcynme speaker Blackwell in­themselves, composed oflarge num­
StaffReporter 
sisted throughout his speech that ber ofArabs and Christians as well as 
the world must remember that the Jews, are probably best able to 
Former Cincinnati mayor Ken­residents of Jerusalem are people resolve the political dilemmas of a neth Blackwell, keynoting yester­seeking a decent life, not simply the metropolis whose name means city day's Jerusalem Committee "indentured curators of the world's of peace, but whose history has meetings declared that the holy city religious museum." been, ironically, anything but peace­must remain undivided and under He added that the inhabitants ful. the sovereignty of Israel. 
In his opening speech, Blackwell compared the situation of the an­cient city to the popular biblical 



Jerusaletn Cotntnittee 
story of King Solomon and the disputed child. Solomon settled the custody case hy commanding that the child be divided in two and one 

discusses unification 

part given to each party. 
Blackwell, currently serving as a vice-president of Xavier University, said that the currently proposed 
'' jerusalem must not become another Berlin. ' ' 
solutions to jerusalem's political problems such as partition and inter­nationalization would destroy the city just as dismemberment would kill Solomon's child. 

He stated that jerusalem must not become another Berlin, with walls rather than bridges, and praised reunification of the city as "a con­structive act ofdestruction." 
As to a second solution, Blackwell stated that the United Nations lacks the unity to act as a foster parent to an international)crusalem, which he said it demonstrated during the American hostage crisis. 
As a final solution, Blackwell proposed leaving Jcrusalem in its current unified status. He said the control of the city under other na­tions has been inadequate, especial­ly under Jordan, which he called "t·qual opportunity despoilcrs" be­cause of their ncglect of Jewish, Christian, and Muslim shrines. 
The former mayor concluded that the obvious solution to the jerusalcm problem is ~o leave the city undivided and in the hands ofits natural parent. Isracl,"under whose care the child has constantly thrived." 
Tom Sawicki, secretary of the 
Committee and an Israeli delegate, 
said most committee members sup­
port the idea of a unified Jerusalem 
with Israel as Its guardian. 
By MIKE O'BRIEN 
StaffReporter 
The unification of Jerusalem un­der the control of Israel was the topic of discussion in yesterday's opening session of the jerusalem Committee. 
jerusalem Mayor Teddy Kollek, the founder of the Committee, and former Cincinnati mayor Kenneth Blackwell (see related story) set the conference's tone by addressing the structural problems plaguing the city. 
Fr. Theodore Hesburgh opened the two-day conference, being held in the Center of Continuing Educa­tion, with a welcome address, followed by a brief history of Notre Dame. 
Mayor Kollek, in his keynote speech to the Committee, stated that Israel is rulingjerusalem "better than anybody else." He charged that under jordan. which ruled the city until the Six-Day war of 1967, Jerusalem was a "divided, dead, neglt•cted city." 
He added that internationaliza­tion of the city failed, that Arab nationality would partition Jerusalem, and that Jerusalem should never be divided again. 
The mayor also said that with I;o,ooo Muslims from Arab nations as well as half a million Christians visiting the city's religious shrines each year, Jerusalem has tolerance and freedom ofworship. 
The committee members then 
joined ND faculty members, distin­
guished guests, local officials, and 
representatives of the press in a din­
ner held at the Morris Inn. 
The conferen<-·e continued with 
participants gathered into four dis­
cussion groups, dealing with the 


NDgraddies 
Laura J. Rohrbach, a I ')80 
Notre Dame graduate from Saratoga, Calif., died Tuesday. Ms. Rohrbach, a first-year law student at Santa Clara State University in California, suffered a cerebral hemorrhage last Saturday, lapsed immediately into a coma, and died Tue5day night. 
A biology major, Ms. Rohrbach lived in Lewis and Lyons Halls while at Notre Dame, and was a member of the crew team. A memorial service will be held 


tonight at 11 p.m. In the Lyons Chapel. 

physical planning. legal and long­term status, religious, and co­existence problems of jerusalem. This session was closed to the media. 
Today, the committee members held a closed door briefing ofthe in­ternal political situation of Jerusalem. Morning sessions dealt with planning projects and the results of last night's working com­
mittees. ,. 
· A press conference scheduled for 
1:30 p.m. in Room 1I 2 ofthe Center for Continuing Education will con­clude the meetings of the jerusalem Committee. 
Greater freedom 

NDSenate approves con$titution 
ByDIANEDIRKERS writing, his rationale. procedures to be voted upon by the News Staff The fact that eight of the 16 CLC Senate on Monday. One new rule ex­members are also Student Senate plicitly prohibits the "usc of throw­
New provisions in the Campus members establishes the CLC as a away materials, such as computer Life Council ( CLC) constitution ap­"power base and not a fragmenta­paper" in the campaigns, in hopes of proved at last night's Student Senate tion of power" for the Senate, stated avoiding another incident such as meeting will allow for greater stu­Riehle. the Hans Hoerdemann controversy dent freedom and power in that Other issues decided upon at the of November's Student Senate elec­body, according to Student Body meeting included the selection of tion. President Paul Riehle. Foremost, Fr. three budget committee members 

, John Van Wolvlear, vice president of to re-evaluate and reallocate funds 
The meeting closed with a Student Affairs, was eliminated as a from the Student Activities office, 
proposal to initiate a nightly escort voting member ofthe CLC, although these new members being Pat Bor­
service for women from the Ubrary, he may still sit in on the meetings. chers, Mike Cassidy, and Mike Shep­
sponsored by the Senate. More con­Also, a proposal allowing secret herdson. The election committee crete resolutions on the matter will balloting was passed. proposed a revised copy of be submitted at Monday's meeting. The prevalent opinion of Senate members was that the CLC should consist ofboth legislative action and dialogue with the administration. 
Vending machine pioneer 
Riehle stressed that "half the mem­bers of the CLC are on the Student Senate. We have a direct input and 


remembers old days 
power base in the CLC." The aim of the Student Senate, 
according to Riehle, is to-work in a ByJUDY DAUBENMIER tedious practice of slitting open the "step-by-step process in which we AssociatedPress Writer cigarette packets to place coins can get student input articulated to inside the celtophane before the the administration." DES MOINES, Iowa -Until F.A. packs were loaded into the vending 
The three-step procedure to es­Wittern came along. people who machine. tablish this communication was bought cigarettes from vending outlined as follows: Mondays, the machines used to find their change Student Senate meets and discusses stuffed under the cellophane of the proposals; Tuesdays, these cigarette packet. proposals are brought to the Hall It was Wlttern who first found a President's Council ( HPC) way to make a vending machine give Wlttern's ventures into vending

meetings, and the presidents then back correct chage. He built the first began in 1931, when the businessinform their constituents ofany new one, by hand, In 1946. 
was still In Its infancy. He Investeddevelopments. Wednesdays, "It wasn't a matter of how many his last 112.50 In used tools and · proposals are brought to a vote by could I seU, but how many could I founded a vending machine firm In athe CLC. If passed they are for­make," Wlttem, 80, said as he 

garage behind his home In east Des
warded to Fr. Van Wolvlear, who, showed oft' his original machine, Moines.
according to a new provision In the now standing In a comer of his constitution, has 10 days to answer office. 
See VENDOR, page J
the resolution and present, In His Invention put an end to the 




NewSHN'eJj 
by The Observer and The Associated Press 
Mllllons ofPolish workers stayed offthe job yes· terday In spreading wildcat protests that have crippled industries nationwide. The nation's largest trade union accused the communist government ofcreating"another dangerous crisis" by failing to live up to concessions won during last summer's widespread strikes. The in­dependent trade union, Solidarity, In an apparent attempt to regain control over Its local unions, also proclaimed a nationwide one-hour warning strike for next Tuesday. At the same time, however, Solidarity urged an Immediate end to the spontaneous local and regional protests and reaffirmed its willingness to open talks with the govern· ment. Solidarity accused the government of putting the "brakes" on agreements reached after last summer's strikes including a five-day workweek, union access to the news media and the farmers' right to form unions. -AP. 
In Berkeley, Calif., where liberals have not-so-fond memories of Ronald Reagan as governor, a University of California group announced the city's secession from the United States in response to Reagan's ascendancy to the White House. Leaders of the Berkeley Committee for Public Safety read the Declaration of Seces­sion In the student government chambers. It warned that In the past, Reagan "crushed the free discourse In ideas and philosophies and the legitimate aspirations of Third World peoples." On a distant coast, another campus group Is determined to stay In the United States but wants Reagan out. The Committee to Impeach Reagan Now, founded at the Camden Campus of Rutgers University, says it will serve as a watchdog on the newly elected president. The group's organizers are hoping to start chapters on other campuses. -Collegiate Headlines. 
100 mlles ofnow-rare ticker tape, computer cards, print-out sheets and other assorted paper will flutter down from office buildings on lower Broadway tomorrow as New York pays Its unique tribute to 23 former hostages. But were it not for a Norwalk, Conn., firm, New York's welcome to the returning Americans would not be what Mayor Edward Koch has promised: the biggest ticker-tape 
parade In New York history. Ticker tape has been in decidedly short supply since the mld·l960s when Wall Street financial houses dis· carded their old tickers for computerized electronic price displays and video screens. So, earlier this week, Trans-Lux Corp. trucked I00 miles of yellow and white ticker tape from its Connecticut headquar­ters to Koch's office. It won't be known If Koch's promise is met until tomorrow's parade is over, and then only by the last detail in any such march -sanitation crews, who measure size by the amount of paper they have to clean up. By that standard, three parades stand out: the spontaneous ticker-tape celebration after announcement of victory over Japan in 1945 (5.4 tons); Astronaut John Glenn's motorcade in 
1961 ( 3.4 tons); and Gen. Douglas MacArthur's parade upon his return from Korea in 195I ( 3.2 tons). The best recent showingwas for the Miracle Mets in 1969, when New Yorkers dumped 1.3 tons of paper on the World Series winners. -AP 
James W. Frick, vice president ofpublic relations, alumni affairs and development for Notre Dame, was invested last week as a Knight of Malta in ceremonies in Saint Patrick's Cathedral in New York City. Membership in the Order of Malta is one ofthe Catholic church's highest honors. The organization, which traces its origin to the I I th century, selects new members from leading Catholic clergy and laymen. Frick, who received his undergraduate degree and a Ph.D. in educational administration from Notre Dame, joined the University's development staff in 195 I. He became director of development in 1961 and four years later was appointed vice president for public relations and development, the first lay person to be an officer of 
Notre Dame. Terrence Cardinal Cooke, archbishop of New York, presided at Investiture ceremonies and at a banquet that night for new members and their families in the Waldorf Aswria. The only other Notre Dame person currently holdir1g membership in the order is the University's athletic director emeritus, Edward "Moose" Krause, in· vested in 1972. -The Obsen¥?r. 
A grant of $183,251 from the National Institute of Health (NIH) for research sponsored by Notre Dame's Vector Biology Iaboratory topped a list ofawards totaling S730,235, accepted by the University for the month of December, according to Robert E. Gor· don, vice president for advanced studies. The NIH award will support research into the factors affecting vector competence in Aedes trlsf.'riatus, directed by George B. Craig, Jr., the George and Winifred Clark Professor of Biology, and Paul R. Grimstad, assistant professor of biology. Other awards for research, which totaled J656, 140, included 
Sl07,511 from NIH for the characterization of nutritionally defined gnotobiote, and S68,048 from the National Endowment for the Humanities, for the catalogue and access system of the Ambrosiana Microfilm Collection. -The Observer. 
Snow continuing today with highs in the low to mid 20s. Partly cloudy and colder at night and tomorrow. Low tonight 5 to 10 above. High tomorrow In the low 20s. -AP. 
Thursday, january 29, 1981 -page 2 

Conservative shift? 
It is necessary to expand on a point ~touched on briefly last week, that Is, the use of the phrase "conservative shift" to rationalize the surprising proportions of Ronald Reagan's victory. This phrase keeps cropping up in the most unusual places, and it just doesn't seem right. It connotes an awakening, a realization, as if millions ofpeople, hitting themselves in the head because they could have had a V-8, were ex­claiming, "Wow, I sure was stupid to be liberal all those years." 
There are many theories being floated these days to explain the November debacle, with many (such as ours) centering around the bad taste that Jimmy Car· ter's presidency left in America's mouth. But that's too easy. We must give the average voter more credit than to ascribe his voting patterns to one obvious rationale. However, to label this collective vote a "conservative shift" Is giving him too much credit. 
Voting is a much more individualistic thing than it used to be not long ago. The urban machines are dead -Jane Byrne Is living proof of that. Labor union sup­port doesn't nearly guarantee the support it once did ­Birch Bayh will attest to that. Most Importantly, party lines are blurring, and voting the strai t ticket Is becoming a thing ofthe past. The Importance, and the power, ofpolitical parties In video demon -political reforms have also played a large role in bringing us to our present situation. Some, such as noted historian Michael Walzer in a recent es­say, arc calling for a return to the smoke-filled rooms and partisan politics of the past. It is argued that this system produced better quality candidates who were responsible to their party. Obviously, what is needed here is a compromise. 

But in the meantime, what this means to the average voter (or those who are still willing to make the effort to vote) is a greater freedom ofchoice, for betterorworse. Which brings us back to the irksome "conservative shift." Since the Depression, the nation's social con­sciousness has been raised through increased aware· 
ness of the plight of the poor, the disadvantaged and those discriminated against. 

this country is decreasing proportionally to the major candidates' lessening responsibility and loyalty to the party organization. 
The advent of television, whose political impact we have already dwelled on in this space (and all the media, to a lesser extent), coincided not surprisingly with the rise of this new political scenario. The electronic media enabled 
candidates to reach the 
voters themselves, without 
the help of the local and 
regional workers who used 
to play such an important role in getting out the vote. Finances were directed towards this new, more ef­fective form ofcampaigning, and the local organizations dwindled. 
At the same time, candidates were able to formulate their own ideological platforms, with little effective in· put from the party. As a result, candidates are no longer answerable to their party, and vice versa. It used to be that party candidates who didn't stick to the agreed upon platform would be defeated by the party in the next election. But the weakened stature of parties enables candidates to bypass them, through television, so that their main function now is to raise money for whomever the electorate selects to be their nominee from the primaries. (The stupidity of the primary sys· tern and the worthlessness of national conventions is another column.) 
What this all boils down to is the erosion of two sig· nificant political power bases, and more significantly the beginning of a dangerous decline in the two-party system. Not all of this, of course, is attributable to the 

Liberals have been championing these causes with growing success ever since. To say that a large por­tion of the electorate ha.o; suddenly, in four years or less, changed Its mind -ad­mitted its mistakes -in one election doesn't make sense. It just Isn't human nature to repudiate oneself like that. We're too stubborn. In 1980, it was simply a choice between the lesser of two 
lessees. 
A more plausible theory 
was proposed before the 
election by Michael W. 
Miles, in a book called Odyssey of the American Rigbt. Recall that from the Civil War through Herbert Hoover, the Republicans fairly controlled the White House. Remember also that nagging group which opposed everything FOR's New Deal stood for, labeling it socialist, and Roosevelt a communist. Miles theorizes that the core of today's right wing was born then, but unable to mount a strong reversing trend until much later, and it has grown only slowly, though steadily, to Its peak offormidability today. 
But that does not signify a massive ideological shift ­yet. The right Is still far from a majority. In this election year, conservatives were able to muster a well· coordinated national campaign which made the liheral record the issue, and they had a presidential opponent whose record was an easy target. The coattail effect was noticeable, to say the least. But to say that the campaign resulted in a nationwide "conservative shift" is a gross misnomer. Carter -Reagan was an ugly choice, but it had to be made. Perhaps a lot ofpeople were just fooled. 

\ 
i 
I 
l

Guest Appearances .....•.............. Mark Rust 
john McGrath 
1 

It works ............................................. It works 
I I 

The Observer (USPS 598 920) Is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer Is published 
1$1 Heineke 1 
by the students of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions 
1 Cocktail houri 
may be purchased for $20 per year 
7 10

($1 0 per semester) by writing The Observer, P.O. Box .Q, Notre 
I -3 -8 I 
Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 
I 2 mixed drinks for I 
The Observer Is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction 
I the price of 1 I
rights are reserved. 
----------------J 
. 
The Observer 
... Vendor 

Wittern came up with the idea of money for building improvements. 
continuedfrom page I 
selling the machines directly to the A gas station owner in Camarillo, businesses, which then keep all the Calif., wrote Fawn that he made a
Fifty years later. the firm, Fawn profits. A Fawn subsidiary offers a down payment on a new PorscheEngineering, turn!> out 20,000 ven­finance program to make it easier for with the profits from liis vendingding machines a year for dispensing businesses to buy the S3,000 machine.
everything from soup to nuts. 
machines. The younger Wittern said he ex­Wittern is still chairman of the "We cut out'the middleman," the pects electronics will vastly changeboard of the Des Moines-based firm younger Wittern said, adding the the industry, making it possible to
which employs SOO people, sell~ machines can often pay for them.. use credit cards in vendingvending machines in all 50 states 
selves within a year. firms can make machines, for example.
and exports about 15 percent of its 
nearly 20 cents on a cup of coffee "The technology in electronics is
machines. The president is his son, that sells for 25 cents, he said. going to revolutionize the industry
F.A. Witternjr. 
in the years ahead," he said. "One of
The profits can be substantial. St. 
Wlttern, who had no formal Mary's Hospital in East St. Louis, Ill., the problems with vending is havingengineering training, began tinker­makes 550,000 a year in profits from a dollar or $1.50 in change in your
ing as a youngster. One winter, he Students lined up outside of Washington Hall yesterday for much· its six Fawn machines and uses the pockets."
and his father took apart their new sought-after tickets to the Keenan Revue. (photo by jane Ahern) 
l'ord automobile and put it back 
together -very carefully. 
"My mother thought we were all 
--Posters! 
1MARBrGRASTiCKET···1t 
bananas," Wittcrn said. "Hut after we Thousands of large and small posters 
put it all back together, my father 
to choose from. I i CHAIRMEN......... :+
said, 'Now if the darn thing breaks 
down, I know where to look."' 
Cover your bare walls or peeling plaster. 
: ::
Wiuern told how one of his ideas attracted presidential attention. 
: PLEASE TURN IN ALL i+ 
During World War I, he wrote to 
RIVER CITY RECORDS 
President Woodrow Wilson to sug­
: • ••
gest an underwater magnetic mine 
50970 US 31 North 277-4242 : SOLD :+
for usc against German submarines. 
The Defense lkpartment responded Open until 1 0 every ni ht 
by offering Wittern a job, not reaJiz. 
ing they were writing to a 16-year­
-----.. =it• ICKETS AND MONEY Td::ol(l boy. 
Wittern said his favorite invention Student Union's ~ 1 : Is a peanut machine that rang a bell and dbpensed a free portion of 
+i BILL WEBER 
peanuts to every ninth person. Wittern recalls the
carrying FREE University :: 523 GRACE HALL 
peanut machines under his arm and 
wotlking into bars trying to peddle 
:ithem to bar owners. He promised BY FRIDAY! 
h(d buy hack the machines if they 
Registration:
didn't sell more peanuts than the bar's old machines. "I never had to pick up one," said 
~~~.~.!~~~.~.!!S~~!.~ 
·.
Thurs., Jan 29th
Wiuern, whose'firm made halfa mil­
and other establishments and give 
the firms a small cut of the profits. 

BUY OBE BIG MAC sandwich, get another one English class 
with this coupon! benefits 
Offer good only at McDonald's 1519 N. Ironwood Dr.

foreign 
South Bend, In. 

students 
Offer Expires Feb. 28, 1981 

A course in English as a second language will be taught from 6:30 
p.m. to 9:00 p.m. on Mondays and Thursdays in Room 107, 
Nobody can do it like

FRIDAY • 8:00 P.M. •
O'Shaughnessy Hall. There is no 
charge for this course.. Foreign stu­
N.D. LIBRARY AUDITORIUM
dents and their spouses are invited 
McDonald's can 

to attend this class which will enable 
$3.00 ·ADVANCE $3.50 • DOOR 
them to improve their English and · 
Increase their understanding oftheir 
Limit 1 couJon Jer customer Jer vilil

Tickets at: Union Ticket Office. River City Records 
courses. Mrs. Sandra Hayes is the 
cash redemJ'lon value 1110 of a c••'· 

Pf8$8flled by
teacher. 
Knights of Columbus and Campus Crusade for Christ 
------------------------~----­

fhe Observer Thursday, January 29, 1981 -page 4 
Christians and Justice series 
McBrien discusses justice 

By CONNIE COONEY 
News Staff 
What is the Church? What is justice? What is the meaning of"the mission of the church?" These ques­tions were the main theme of Rev. Richard McBrien's seminar on "The Mission of the Church and justice", held last night in Carroll Hall, at Saint Mary's. 
Fr. McBrien is the chairman of the Theology Department at Notre Dame. He has appeared on CBS-TV covering the Vatican, and · most recently, the visir of Pope john Paul The Judo Club displayed its talents at the Spring Activities Night II to the United States. Fr. McBrien 
held yesterday on the first floor of Lafortune. (photo by jane Ahern) has also received the John Courtney Murray Award, which is given to the most prestigious theologian in the country. In addition to these ac­complishments, he is the author of two books and many articles dealing with the roles of the Churr:h. 

Rev. McBrien answered the ques­tion, "What is the church?" by saying that "the church Is the whole body of Christians, although not neces­sarily only Catholics." He continued. "if you criticize· the church, you criticize yourself." 
"justice is a virtue concerned with the rights of the people, where aU the rights are respected and protected," Fr. McBrien said. He categorized "justice" as a) com­

1
·-----------------------------------------------­
I 
I 
I (The New Advent Loudspeaker.). 
I I I I I 
I 
I I Announcing I Something
I 
I 
I Worth
I 
I 
I Announcing.
I 
I 
I 
I
'I 
I I I 
I 

When you can offer a new version of the best-selling, most imitated speaker in the country, you might as well say it loud and1 clear. 
So then. Here we have (and you can too) the New Advent Loudspeaker. 
The original Advent became a best-seller by offering the full ten octaves of audible frequency response (with unsurpassed clarity, musical balance, and natural, unexaggerated overall sound), for a fraction of the previous going price. 
The New Advent has the same overall kind of sound (for the same kind of price), but with more high-frequency output to take advantage of recent improvements in recordings and broadcasts. The difference isn't gigantic (there wasn't that much room for more), but it's definitely there for the hear­ing. And it adds more lustre to the best in records, tapes and FM broadcasts. 
So come hear something worth hearing. It puts cost-no-object sound within reach and reason. 
~----------------------~~~-----------------------1 
1Large walnut and vinyl AdVents l 
'•"'• ,,.c~...,,,.,.c.  .·. •t. . ·~t;l·· ,, .... ·.·Jlmflnliftmr•-·...... ······ ______ ..... --~............ ....... -·'""' .................... T.­ SOU~~l  II 1 ~;NR;HI:~~H~~A~6601  
''20% off~'  I I  
current supply only  I I  
I  

I I 
L------------------------------------------------• 
mutative, b) legal, c) distributive, and d) soda!. He also quoted Pope Paul VI as saying. "Peace is the work ofjustice." Fr. McBrien added that "a Roman Catholic's pursuit of justice is a nect·ssary part of the Church's 
mission." 
Rev. McBrien stated that 
"evangclization is the preaching of 
the gospel. Pope: Paul VI told us that 
one must have a social justice back­
ground in evangilization, or it is not 
evangilization." Fr. McBrien ended 
by saying "justice is justice. Justice 
should be done inside the Church as 
well as outside." He summed up the 
hour-long talk by saying "the mis­
sion of the Church is to be a sacra­
ment.". 
A 30-rilinute question and answer 
session concluded the first presenta­
tion of the Christians and justice 
series, which is in it's second year. 
Three other seminars in the series 
will be held on Feb. II, Feb. 22, and 
March 25. 
Keenan Revue 
ticket 
distribution 
The Keenan Revue Is scheduled 
for Friday and Saturday, jan. 30 and 
31,8 p.m. in O'Laughlin Auditorium 
at Saint Mary's. Tickets will be dis" 
trlbuted today from 4-6 p.m. at the 
Washington Hall and ()'Laughlin 
Auditorium box offices. Admission 
is free. A reception will follow the 
Saturday performance in the Keenan 
Kommons. 
Social skills 
wor~sh.op 
offered 
The: Notre Dame Counseling Cen­ter will offer a workshop in dating and friendship skills during February and March. The workshop is aimed at people who want to improve so­cial and relationship skills. 
The workshop will also aid per· sons in overcoming shyness, 
establishing  closer  personal  
relationships  and  improving  self­ 
confidence.  

The program consists of eight two-hour weekly meetings which will be held in room 400 of the Ad­ministration Building, In the Counseling Center, on Tuesdays from I to 3 p.m. beginning Feb. 3. There is only a limited enrollment available, so interested persons should sign up as soon as possible by calling the Counseling Center ( l 718) and leaving their names with the receptionist. 
Some ofthe specific skills that will be taught during the eight-week workshop Include attending be­havior, giving fecdback, initiating and ending conversations, continu­ing conversations, handling silences, 
initiating social contacts, making re­quests, and giving and accepting compliments. The process used to teach these skills includes diS<.·us­sions. written handouts, videotape models, role-playing. fcedhack, and homework assignments. 
• a 0 
Buy Observer classifieds 

-
\ 


Thursday, january 29, 1981 -page 5

Editorials 
·-... ­
Who is Duke, where has he been and where is he going? 
Michael Onufrak 

For Doonesbury readers this week has been a reunion which, though not quite on par 
TH& HOSTA6t'sIPWTfTY 
some that have occurred 
IS 5!1Ll llJ(KNOIUN, 81/T

;2~0001
lately, has been memorable none­theless. Uncle Duke, one of Gar­
H&ISI£/NG~

$~@! ANO 71-/AT'S
Trudeau's most popular characters, reappeared this week 
TO 8Y IRANIAN saJRC&S

INGOLD/ MY FINAL 
an absence of roughly 444 days. Though he was last seen 
AS ''TH& 8Alf) SPY. 11


/ OFFER!\ 
blindfolded and facing a tiring squad, those of us who have followed Duke's career closely and those of us who have known 
the non-fictional journalist Duke is based on, never doubted that he would emerge unscathed. 
Uncle Duke is the writer turned diplomat who has served not only as Governor of American Samoa, but also as U. S. ambassador to China. As those who follow the plot know, Duke was last seen around the time of the takeover of American embassy in Iran. He had been sent into Iran by a American oil company to perpetrate clandestine deeds against the Ayatollah and his cohorts. Unfortunately, after he parachuted into Tehran he was captured by militant Iranian stu­who planned to execute However, the quick-witted was unimpressed by his 
Doonesbury.
captors and their threats, and im­mediately began negotiating-al­blind-folded and tied to a Duke accepted that offer none­Duke first appeared in Doones­
Vonnegut, Duke is a "real per­There are several possibliltJes

chair-for his release. When last theless and Duke is subsequently bury several years ago as the son" moonlighting in a fictional which Duke may pursue. First his readers saw him he was offering a free man today recovering in an 
erstwhile" uncle" ofZonker Har­role. Not only does Thompson, girl-friend and former interpreterseveral hundred thousand dollars army hospital in West Germany. ris, the benevolent, perennial col­the journalist, wear dark shades, from his China days is now at in gold which he felt his backers Hi!> •titude is not one ofgratitude 
lege student from Walden sport a cigarette holder and have a Georgetown, so he may want to would gladly provide to ransom or enthusiasm as most of the other commune. In various episodes it wife named Sandy; he also lives in look her up. He hasn't seen so valuable a man as he. hostages, but one of annoyance, is affirmed and then denied that Aspen, Colo., (as does Duke), in­Zonker in a while either and 
As we found out this week, restlessness, and a lust to get on there is any blood relation be­gests mind-altering drugs on a Reagan has a lot of appointments was wrong. All the with life. For Duke's life and his tween Duke and Zonker. In any regular basis, and shares Duke's for a man of his talents. My per­American oil companies would non-fictional counterpart Dr. case, "Uncle" is how Zonker ad­fondness for drinking, betting, sonal hope is that he will return to up with was $300. The HunterS. Thompson have always dresses Duke and in the few 
and shooting loud firearms. the Washington Redskins (whoIranians, apparently tiring of lived life to the fullest. panels where Duke's wife has ap­
Thompson is the author of three are currently searching for assis­peared Zonker has referred to her books (the most famous of which tant coaches) where he served as 
as" Aunt Sandy.," T)le firsttime is the counter-culture classic Fear general manager (administering 
Doonesbury readers met Duke he and Loathing in Las Vegas), and the correct stimulants to various was a gun-wielding, drug­a writer of scores offree-lance ar­team members). Whatever he imbibing journalist for Rolling ticles for magazines ranging from does, most readers are glad to Stone. His trademark cigarette Rolling Stone to Playboy. When have him back. 
Doonesbury Garry Trudeau 
ARE YaJ fa/../NG ANXIOUS~ A UTT/£ IJI50RieNTW? 7HAr'S 


holder, dark glasses, and sparse-he began his writing career, Trudeau's chronicle has lately 
Thompson served as a sports come under much fire from con­
QUIT& NORMAL. H0141A80UT 
aPRE55/a'J?ANY~? 

writer for a Florida daily and servative groups for his treatment "What is most wrote under the name of Raoul of President Reagan in the pre­Duke, an appelation he employs election series "Reagan'samazing though, when discussing his antics in Brain." Patterned after the some of his more fictitious works. popular PBS series hosted by Carl It was from this pen-name that Sagan, Trudeau's treatment of
is that Duke 

Trudeau borrowed Duke and the then Republican candidate launched Thompson's career as a bordered on viciousness. When actually exists. '' fictional character. ten newspapers banned the series Thompson has never been from print, or ran it only after the enthralled by this career. A few election, liberal groups were ness of hair (as well as his cynical years ago when Duke and other quick to retaliate accusing the and self-serving philosophy) members of the Doonesbury gang responsible editors ofcensorship. quickly endeared him to many of were featured on the cover of The liberal Mother Jones even Trudeau's readers. Since that Time magazine, Thompson's features a Doonesbury character
M!<. t:U:E, I C44J'T Ha.P 

/A/H/3/l£ TIE time Trudeau has used Duke to photo was featured inside with an (TV journalist Roland Hedley) on
'!W IF '!W110fTi.£TMe. 

HEU15MY comment on the Panama Canal accompanying quote which was its cover and runs each of the 
~(jQf 70 fHN IJP, 

lilALIEf? situation, the Mayaguez incident, less than favorable toward offending Reagan panels inside
)(lJ"f! (j(JT 70 TAJj( lD 

relations with China, Cuban ad­Trudeau. Apparently nothing their latest issue. With Duke back
~~ [)() '1W (II­
\ 

venturism, oil conglomerates, came of it. And while in the action now, Trudeau's laetrile, and the hostage ordeal. Thompson's literary output has philosophy may tend to move That's a wide range of interests dwindled to nil (his last book was back towards a more middle of and intrigues for any man, fiction­a compilation of previously the road stance which it tradition­al or not. published pieces and excerpts ally assumed in the past. Duke, 
What is most amazing though, from his earlier works), Duke's after all, is himself a Republican is that Duke actually exists. Like career has sky-rocketed. Now who served under the Ford ad­Kilgore Trout who is an actual that he is finally out of Tehran, ministration. It witl be interesting science fiction writer as well as a Doonesbury' s gigantic readership to see what role he plays in the character in the novels of Kurt eagerly awaits his next move. Reagan years. 
IJER5TANP"! ..... 


Editorial Board and Department Managers 
Edltor·ln·Cblllf......................................Paul Mullaney  Sports Edltcw ........................................... Bcth Hldlmao  
Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556  Mt~naglng Edltor.......................................... Mark Rlllt  F~EdUor....................................... MoUy Woulte  
The Observer is an independent new.spaper published by the students of the  Edttorulls Edltor..............................Michael Onufrak  Pboto Edllor ..............................................John Mat:ol'  
University of Nor,;e Dame duLac and Samt Mary's College. It does not necessanly  !knlorCopy Edltor..•..................Mary Fran Callahan  
reflect the polictes of the i:ldministration of either institution. The news is reported  ExfiCUttve News Edltor.........................Tomjackman  Buslnas M11rwpr···········-·····-············-Grca HcdFa  
as accurately and as objectively as possibl.e: Editori~ls represent the opinion .of a  News Edltor............................................... Pam Depan  Control'-"·-···············································-···Jlm Rucki  
majority of the Editorial Board ..Commentanes, optmons, and letters are th.e vtews  News Editor ...............................................Lynne Daley  Adv.rltshtJI M~······················-·--··-·Mark EW.  
of their authors. Column space ts avatlable ro all members of the commumty, and  SMC Executive Editor..........................Margie BruUI  Clrr:ulilllon M~............................Beth ltackat  
the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged.  SMC News Edltor......................................Mary Lcavtu  Prodw:tton M~..........................Jobn Mc:Gndl  

The Observer Thursday,January 29, 1981 -page 6 
Springsteen concert 
energizes audience 
0 
nc cannot dissect a Bruce Springsteen concert into good songs and not-so-good songs, since the Boss and his E Street Band over­whelm audiences with over three hours ofmaterial. Rather, one can only discuss the performance as a singular entertainment event -a syncrglstlc Interplay between audience and musician, a truly exhaust­log rock'n'roU experience. 
Two yean ago, when Springsteen last played In the ACC, he added Not~ Dame to his &ndom. Those who attended the concert learned what Jerseyltes had known for eons. The concert was the finest rock show produced In the ACC. That three-hour extravaganza of nonstop vitality and dramadisplayed the possibilitiesofthe rock'n'roU motifat their finest, finding those ofus Ignorant ofBruce's magic, flat on our f~ct, delightfully stunned. 
As a result ofSpringstcen's triumph here In 1978, high expectations surrounded his return this year. Without question, Monday night's performance more than fulftJled those expectations. 
In 1978, Springsteen concentrated on his older, more somber material from Born to Run andDarkness on the Edge ofToum as well as his earlier releases, turning some ofthe lackluster studio offerings into victorious vignettes ofdramatic intensity or rollicking frolics of sheer fun. However, the Bruce we saw Monday was not the same artist of 1978 -this concert wa..o; the Boss at his most professional and guile· ful. 
In 1978, Bruce's stage presence still contained a few rough edges ­a brashness and boldness that thundered forward even ifsome ofhis stage antics floundered. During the long road trips ofthe la..'it two years, Springsteen has polished those edges into a confident enter· talner with a sparkle unrivaled today. 
Uve, Springsteen transcends his uninspired studio blandness and embelll'lhes his music with an unbridled stage personality, a super· lative back-up group, and a rapport with ecstatic fans that seems to energize and uplift the concert experience In a sort ofcathartic 
revival. As a result, even the unfamiliar new compositions from The River 
flowed easily between band and audience. Even the longer, cum· bersome·ballads like "Independence Day," and "Point Blank" evoked enthusiastic response -a tribute to the E Street Band's penchant for playing off each other tightly as a cohesive unit, and to Springsteen's 
lndominatibly emotive stage personality. 
Spanning over four hours, the concert contained too many musical and theatrical highlights to properly list them all. Unlike other current groups, Springsteen did not devote the first set exclusively as a promo­tional tool for The River, but broke up the concert with alternatively relaxed and tense works, both old and new, finally climaxing (after the obligatory rendition of"Jungleland" and "Born to Run")with the second encore's medley ofclassic rock'n'roll dance tunes. 
Iffavorites must be picked, "The River" and "Wreck on the High· way" were probably the most effective from the new album, due to their simple brevity and forthright content, while the standout from the first third ofthe show was certainly "1Oth Avenue Freeze Out," when Bruce joined frenzied admirers on the floor and Clarence Clem· mons funked out on saxophone. 
After a deserved break, the band broke into a series ofbasic-beat "frat roclt" songs. Singularly, these tunes seem simplistic and even sil· ly, but when presented together rapid-fire, one can't help but gyrate his/her hips and fall victim to persistent dance rhythm. After "CadiUac Ranch, "Sherry Darlln' " (where one young lady found herself dragged upon the stage for an exclusive dance with the Boss himself-once she regained her senses, she did moderately well), the current hit "Hungry Heart" (with a tremendous vocal performance by the audience), and the ha..'ltlly re-learned "Double Shot ofMy Baby's Love" ("The only place In the known universe that we play this song." Springsteen said). The band capped the set with the pinnacleoffrater­nity boogie tunes, "Louie, Louie." While New Wave has been strug· gling to rediscover rock's roots the last few years, Springsteen shows us that he's never forgotten them. 
Ofthe older material, "Darkness on the Edge ofTown," and "Fourth ofJuly (Sandy)" were superlative. "Darknes.<;," nowa staple ofBruce's concerts, accurately depicts the degredation ofmodem urban life, and sums up in nco-religious analog the need to escape and grow. On Tbe Wild, the Innocent, and theESIN!et Shuffle, "Sandy" is little more than a monologue dedicated to this same escapist dream. In concert, this song becomes a dramatic statement, building In volume and ur­gency to a breathless baptismal-Image resolution. 
"Rosallta," smartly left for the end ofthe concert, displayed theE Street Band's ability to tum a standard hit into a musical celebration. Instead ofperforming the song straight, complete with the customary audience participation, each member took an opportunity for a quick solo, and came together after some surprisin~t rhythm variations, with· out destroying the important link between fans and band. 
Obviously, Bruce Springsteen ha..., reached the crest ofhis career. The question is: How long can he maintain his dominance In the popular music Industry? When will the cresting wave come crashing down upon the shore? 
Concert performances being his forte, a live album seems to be the final ace in the hole in Springsteen's successful career. Such a record­Ing would place him without peer In the entertainment world. After that, he could retire and live comfortably in jersey for the rest ofhis days. However, after seeing the creative energy manifested inside the man on stage, it seems unlikely that would ever leave him contented. 
Thank God! 

Tim "Scoop" Sullivan 
Because of space limitations, Tim Neely's weekly trivia quiz does not appear today. It will return to the Features page Thursday, Feb. 5, in a slightly revised for­mat. 

Fefl 
The Came 
(photos by John Macor) 
-
__..............---.... 
~ 
....--...­
. -· ~ ............ . ........ 

The Observer 1bursday,january29, 1981-page 7 


es 
Joss 
Back 

(Lilyout by Scoop) 
-·· 
Bruce : Perfection 

F
or m0st everyone who occupied the ACC Monday night, the show was enough. But few realized the effort Springsteen put into the show when he wasn't on stage. 
Before the concert, Bruce was a picture ofprofessionalism. When he and the band entered the ACC around 5 p.m. Monday evening, they dropped their coats in the dressing rooms and headed straight for the stage. 
Except Bruce. A1J the band broke into "Hungry Heart," Springsteen sat at the sound board at the bottom ofsection 9 and set the sound levels for every microphone, instrument and speaker. And then, with his sound tech­nician dutifully in tow, the Boss spent a half hour walking around the arena meticulously listening to the acoustics. Springsteen circled the ACC twiCe, concentrating on the sound in the bleachers during the first lap and the lower padded seats on the second circuit. Making sure that everyone who had a ticket heard the finest show possible, Bruce sat in the second last row ofthe backstage bleachers for five minutes, constantly making mental notes on what he wanted to adjust before the show. Content with his survey ofthe upper arena, Spring~teen circled the back ofthe floor seats before he walked down the m1ddlc aisle toward the stage. Reaching his destination, he sat down in the first row·center seat ofsection C. The sound had to beperfect everywhere. A1J he criss-crossed the ACC listening to his hit single for the beuer 
part of 30 minutes, his face was taut. None of the excited, eager glances that were to be his trademark in barely three hours. One sensed that even when he was looking at you he wasn't; this was busi­
ness and the quality ofhis product demanded the utmost attention. 
One more trip to the sound board to make the changes he had noted and Bruce was finally ready to go. He mounted the stage (from the front row-not the steps), donned his guitar and ripped into "Hungry Heart." The band also worked on "Prove it All Nigftt," wilh frequent stops and exhortationsfrom their Boss to make the musical transitions neater. A bit of"Promised Land" and Roy Bittan's "Backstreets" piano solo had the band back in gear after three plane flights from Ottowa, Canada and a night in South Bend. 
But then it was time to create the night's show, with a few special frills for the occasion. Bruce gave the band a quick reminder of"Louie, Louie" to refresh their memories along with a dose of"Doublc Shot of My Baby's Love," finally admitting to theE Streeters that "ifyou don't 
know the words, fake it!" In an interview following the Darkness tour of 1978, drummer Max Weinberg had been asked to name some special shows he had played with Bruce. Among the ten or so concerts Weinberg recited, he said "Notre Dame -that was great ll ended up with a food fight onstagc among the roadies. We even played 'Louie, Louie' and 'Double Shot of Mv Baby's Love."' The first college Bruce and the E Street band played during that 1978 tour, Notre Dame brought back memories to the band. "Oh, we like to pull out some ofthose old frat rock songs," predicted guitarist "Miami Steve" VanZandt when asked what might 
transpire that evening. 
"You never know!" 
Before exiting the stage for dinner, Springsteen also paced the band through "l Fought the law" (which he played duringthe first set), and unplayed oldies "Lola" (The Kinks), "I've Had It" (The Bell Notes) and "The Letter" (The Box Tops). 
Yet all that preparation still wasn't enough for Bruce Springsteen, 
the perfectionist -the same perfectionist who held up production of 
his last two albums for so long until they werejust right. 
Most everyone in the ACC assumed that Springsteen took an ex­
tended intermission to rest up after the first blistering set. Not so. 
Not comfortable with the band's performance during practice, 
Brucecorralled the EStreeters into his dressing room and taught them 
the words to "Double Shot ofMy Baby's Love." There was goingto be 
no faking it tonight. This was "the only place in the known universe" 
that they would ever play the song, and Bruce wanted to make sure it 
was done right. 
Bruce's ACC dressing quarters were all business too. The room in 
the lower concourse ofthe ACC could have been easily mistaken for 
an athletic lockerroom. The most visible piece offurniture in the 
room, besides a leather sofa along the: right wall, was a padded table 
that could easily have been found in any athletic trainer's room. 
Few people who watched Springsteen's four-hour display of musi­cal gymnastics realized it, but. the Boss was hurt. There was a noticeable limp in his saunter when he walked through the arena before the show, favoring the right leg which he injured during one of his patented leaps into a Washington, D.C. audience some four weeks 
ago. Yet the Boss didn't hesitate to part the crowd in the front row during "Tenth Avenue Freezeout," leaping into the sea offrenzied ad­
mirers with a painful right leg taped from knee to ankle. 
Not only did Springsteen's dressing room display the trappings ofa modem day trainer's room, but it noticeably lacked the under-the­counter pharmaceuticals which so many rock groups favor and even 
glority these days. 
Along with a tray oflunch meats, peanuts, snacks and pop, Bruce had two large urns ofcoffee and tea Next to them was a large tray filled with ice and Hawaian Punch, Gatorade, orange juice and a spe­
cial order ofgrapefruit juice which Bruce sent out for before the show. The neighboring dressing room for the rest ofthe band stocked the 
same beverages, along with a garbage can full of Heineken and a few assorted fifths for mixed drinks. But no one in the band touched any­
thing but the juices, at least until after the show. 
Springsteen spent overan hour recoveringbackstage after his guitar had silenced from the last strains of"Devil in the Blue Dress." But when he: opened his dressing room door at 2 am. and found some 25 people waiting for autographs, exhaustion disappeared and a smile crept across his tace. He made sure every lasl person in the ACC and 
waiting at his bus in back got their autograph, their handshake and their word from the Boss. He smiled as be turned and walked into the bus. His job waa com­plete. 
BUIM~ 
en ;sz 

'The~======================================== 
Toda~===================Th=u=rsd=a=y,=Jan=u=ary=29=,1=9=81=p=a=ge=8 
Campus 

•4 
p.m. -lecture: "one world? or two? or three? where will you live?" gov. john j. gilligan, nd, sponsored by the notre dame law school, 101 law school. 

•6 
p.m. -college bowl, carroll hall, smc. 

•6, 
8:30, II p.m. -film: the great santlnl, sponsored by the center for experiential learn­Ing. engineering aud., 50 cents admission. 

•7 
p.m. -meeting: n.d. management club, room 120 hayes-healy. 

•1 
p.m. -lecture: "flow visualization," dr. thoma~ muel­ler, room 356 fitzpatrick hall of engineering. 

•7:.:\0 
p.m. -111m: "a nous Ia libertt'." anrlenbcrg aud., the snite museum, S I admission. 

•R 
p.m. -concert: "santa fe," sponsort:d by student union, memorial library auditorium, tickets S3. 50 at the door. 

•H 
p.m. -finance forum: mr. peter willmon, president of federal express, room 122 hayes-healy . 


... Grapplers 
contlnuedfrompage 12 
which Is equalw a wrestler losing by being pinned. (Currently, the Irish have vacancies at the 190-pound and heavyweight divisions.) 
"In tournaments we won't be penalized for forfeits or for wrestling people who arc mismatched in weight. For instance, we clobbered Northwestern this year as we won the matches, but lost the meet on forfeits. If three or four ofour people win Individual titles on Saturday, though. we can win the entire tournament." 
Only Mother Nature holds the trump card over Lady Luck now as Bruno hopes to have all his wrestlers In top form Saturday as some have been bitten by the flu bug. 
Noonan to appear Feb. 1 
A guitar and lute recital featuring guest artist jeiiTey Noonan will be presented Sunday, Feb. I at 8 p.m. in Moreau Hall's Unle Theatre. The reclt;•lls open to the public without charg::. 
Included In Noonan's recital will be works by Nicolas Vallet, Ales­sandro Plcclni, Gregory Huwet, Domenico Clmarosa, Federico Morena-Torroba and johann Sebas­tian Bach. 
Noonan has appeared In a variety of ensembles In the northeast and mid-west and performs on the clas­sic guitar and Renaissance lute. His solo appearances Include recitals at Hartt College in Connecticut, Bos­ton University, Indiana University at Fort Wayne, the University of Notre Dame and Salnt Mary's College. 
With degrees from the University of Notre Dame and Hartt College of Music at the University of Hartford, Noonan has served on the music faculties oflndiana University at Fort Wayne, Andrews University and Bet­hel Col!ege and was a member ofthe Salnt Mary's music department for three years. 
Molarity 



NEVER 1-tDc.KE!> At>l~t-ioNf), NEVtP, ~L.'E. A CE'A.Ji LIVIN" W/1Jf MO~ OOWr CHA~£ NO RENT. l>ofoJT" ~PLURG.f 01J CI.OTJIES NO !5E"qUINNft> ~GI<$ 
I 
~ I.Je'"~ -r~LL ~ tAuse 

Peanuts® 
ACROSS 26 Fencing 1 Isle of swords

The Daily Crossword 
song 28 Maryof 
6 Wid• the stage mouthed 29 Chemical pots compound 
11 Kit or 31 Treason 
Johnny 33 Turttlsh 12 Reared rulers 14 Biased 34 VIllein's 15 Dresses relative 17 Yoko-35 D-dog 18 Squeal 38 Bowling 20 Grammari­divisions 
an's horror 39 Served as 21 Close chairman friends 43 Common talk 23 Standards 4-4 Damp official 45 Drudge 25 Mad-wet 46 Tidal hen reflux 
Yesterday's Puzzle Solved: 

All Rights Reserved 
Michael Molinelli 

Charles Schulz 
47 One who 13 More classifies compact 50 Poet's 14 Church 
plenty leaders 51 Hodgepodge 16 VIPs 53 Feudal 19 Mountain 
tenant lake 55 WW II 22 Earthquake: general comb. form 56 Evergreen 24 Negligent 
leaves 27 Guides 58 Conceived 30 Decrepit 60 Scoffs 32 Money 61 Wedding agency 
walkways letters 62 Warmed-over 33 Comp. pt. 63 Short 35 Kind of 
letters well 36 Refrigerant DOWN 37 Russian 1 Celebrated money 
In song 38 Surrounding 2 Buchwald on all 3 Greek sides 
letters 39 Caresses 4 Certain 40 Biblical horses descendants 5 Substitut­41 Conjures up Ing for 42 Moistened 6 Inspired 4-4 Brilliant prophet fish 1 Potter's 48 Manifest 
wheel 49 Marconi's 8 Illuminated Invention 9 Wortd 52 Czech river 
segment 54"-we 10 Arranged In forget" succession 57 Wreath 11 Party snack 59 Beverage



You are cordially invited to attend a talk by Peter D. Ehrenhaft, Esq. at 
12:15 p.m. on Friday, Jan. 30 in room 1 01 of the Notre Dame Law School. Mr. Ehrenhaft's talk is entitled 
" Judicialization of Trade Law " . Mr. Ehrenhaft has served as the Department Assistant to the Secretary of the Treasury and has also participated in the preparation of the 
Freun Report to the United States Supreme Court. He is presently a partner with the Washington office of Hughes, Hubbard and Reed. All are welcome . 


The Observer Thursday, January 29, 1981 -page9 
Armi helps ND fencers 
Due to a technical error tbe 

Armi has worked with students who with the foil, but as a senior picked 
•following story was improperly would like to try fencing, but have . up the sabre. He describes fencing, 
produced in Tuesday's issue ofThe never fenced before. especially with the sabre, as a sport Observer. It is being run tn its cor­
that requires thought and strategy,Armi commented on the impor­
rectform today. 
as well as agility. 
tance ofthe novice program. "Ifthey (the novices) don't stay, at least "Fencing is a visual sport." says Armi. 
they'll know something about fen­
ByJIM LEOUS "You must set up an action and ob­
cing. If they do stay, they might not
Sports Writer serve your opponent, keeping in
be all-Americans, but they will mind that if you hesitate, your op­become very team-oriented. I like it 
The Notre Dame fencing team, ponent can make a counter-attack.
when everyone helps each other
now 4-0, seems to be on its way The best fencers on the team think 
out. The novice program really
toward another NCAA champion· before.they move."
keeps the team going."

shi!J berth. One of the reasons for Notre Dame's continued success is · When asked to size up the team, 
Lack of competition is the only
sabre captain Greg Armi. In his three Armi replies, "This year's team has 
problem Coach DeCicco feels Armi 
years on the Irish squad, Greg has much more depth and is much 
might face this year. "For three years
contributed much more to the team quicker than last year's-" 
Greg has had Mike Sullivan and Chris
than his shows.  amazing  72-23  record  · Lyons  to  push.  Now  he  needs  Coach  DeCicco  feels  that  with  
soineone  to  push  him.  Greg pos­ sabre captain Greg Armi's leader­ 
sesses  great  skill,  and  given  the  ship, the Notre Dame fencing team  
Coach  Mike  DeCicco  describes  proper  traini ng and  strong competi­ could be well on its way to another  

Armi as "a natural leader who works tion, he should be ready for the Na­
hard and sets a good example for the tional Championships in March." 
rest of the team." DeCicco is par­ticularly proud of Armi's work with 
Armi wasn't always a fencer. Until the novice fencer's program. Four 
his sophomore year in high school, nights a week for the past two years, 
he was a boxer. He started fencing 
,~~~.-.~~~~~~~~~~ ...... ~~, 
t Guys and Gals t t Get a Golden Tan in Minutes 
I
Iand Look as Good as You Feel t t Two minutes in our booth equals two t hours in the sun... SAFE AS THE SUN! t Individual dressing room t con:'plete t pnvacy. t 
t t t t 
Just Janes Beauty & t Tanning Salon t 2210 W. Huron t J So. Bend, Ind. 282-1652 t 
--First Annual-­
OFF-CAMPUS FORMAL 
Century Center Great Hall January 31, 1981 9pm-1am---­
Price: $14.00/couple Band: Crystal 
at the following 
locations ... 
Campus View: 5herri McGonil(le 54585/risb Way 
Apt.l03 277-8280 
St. Mary's Off-Campus Lounge Ilam-lpm LaFortune Student Center Ilam-lpm Notre Dame Apts. 
Carole McCollesler Apt.4B 
S/)uruo,.ed By ND-SMC Otf~Campus CummiuifJru. 


OPEN BAR 9:30­10:30pm 

national championship. 
St. Mary's Student Body and Class Officer Elections 

Mandatory meeting 
Wed., Feb 4 6:00pm in the Student Govt Room for all those interested in runnin 
ELECTION DAY 
THURS· Feb 19 
DORMLIFE CRAMPING YOUR STYLE? 

. ' 
-NOTRE DAME AVE. APTS 
2bedrooms completely furnished completekitchen off-streetparking up to 4 students 
( 
$340-$360/month call.234-6647 ~ 


"The River." 


Twenty new songs onfour skies~ Bruce Springsteen and111e EStreet Band. On Columbia Records and Tapes. 
Produced br aruc• Sprlngat.-n, Jon L.....u. St•v. VM Zanclt. Man•genwnl: .ton ~u. "Columbi•" Ia o trlldemarlt ot c•s Inc. c t•at CBS Inc. 
------------------------~~----------------------------------------------------------------~--­
The Observer Thursday,January 29, 1981-page 10 

NOTRE DAME STUDENT UNION 
SPRING BREAK IN DAYTONA BEACH 
4 PER ROOM
•207 
12 Double Bedsl 
6 PER ROOM
5195 
13 Double Bedsl 
TRIP INCLUDES 
• 
Round trip motor coach transportation on first class charter coaches leaving the campus Friday evening March 13 and traveling straight through With plenty of partying to Daytona Beach. arriving the following day. The retum trip departs the follow­ing Sat. in the afternoon, and arrives back on campus the next day. 

• 
A full seven nights accommodations at the Plaza Hotel of Daytona Beach, Flonda. 

• 
A great time 1n Daytona with special parties and -activities. 

• 
Optional tnp to 01sney World available. 

• 
All taxes and gratuities. 


MARCH 13 -22, 1981 
THE HOTEL 

The Plaza Hotel is the place to be in Daytona. It is right in the middle of everything that's happening. It is a large first class hotel located right on the beach only a couple thousand feet from the boardwalk. The hotel has a large pool. pool bar. party deck, basketball court, tennis court. coffee shop, and four of the wildest drinking establish­ments on the strip. You will love it. 
THE BUSES 

While on the buses to and from Daytona. everyone should have a great t1me. The buses are nothing but the best modern coaches with full washroom facilities and whenever possible, FM-AM stereos and card table areas. Food stops will be made along the way. You can also bring along whatever you want !w1thm reasonl. 
SIGN UP NOW AT THE TICKET OFFICE IN THE LA FORTUNE BUILDING 8:00a.m.-5:00p.m. MON.-FRI. OR CALL 283-3031 (after five 283-6283) 

Sports c:B=r="=·e:J.:.!~=s====::::::;===========Th=u=rsd=a=y=,J=an=u=ary=29=,=19=8=1=p=ag=e=-11 
by The OhJert•er and The Assuallted Prn.r 
Family affair
Crew Club will holdan organizational meeting today at 7:30p.m. In the LaFortune Ballroom. Men and women interested in joining for the spring should attend. 
V aldiserri leads women fencers 
1be Ski Club ofIndiana University Is sponsoring a skiing  
trip Feb. 27-March 1 (Fri.-Sun.) at Schuss Mountain and Crystal Moun­ 
tain In Northern Michigan. The package Includes two nights lodging at the Traverse City Days Inn and lift ticKets for Saturday and Sunday. There will be a meeting Feb. 3 at 3:30 p.m. in the small theater of LaFortune. Non-members are welcome. For more Information, call  By DONNAWITZLEBEN Sports Writer "IfI shoot for anything I like to go  this year that there is a difference be· tween fighting and fencing. You could give anybody a blade and tell him a few things about fencing and  three national championships as the: men's coach at Notre Dame. "Anybody who has ever Known Coach has thought highly of him.  
David Nagy at 259-1378.  all the way. And that's not just in fen­ he would go out there and he might  I've known  him since 1 was  nine  

Racquetball Pairings 
The men's and women's doubles rac­( 1409) Mai (I 170) quetball tournament -each match con­Wagnc:r, A.tweU ( 1462) vs. jakopin, sist.o of three games (best of lhrcc scri<:s). Pricc(lll64) The: pairing for these tournaments wiU ap­Bourjally ( 1636) Kohkr ( 1633) vs. pear each Wednesday In TIH Observer. II is Bruemmer. Gla..ford (1125 I) the r""ponslbllily of the participants to McCarthy ( 11 71 ) Frick ( 7781 ) vs. contact his or her opponents and set up a Pineda (87111) Shank (8717) match In ea<-·h round. Phone numbers ae Blouberg. Clark (I 161 )vs. Foley, Wayne Ust.-d in parenthesis below. The results of (11860) these matches must be turned in, in per­McDonnell ( 76117) Meehan ( 1164) vs. son, 10 rhe lnlcrhall Office before noon on Wezdcnko ( 11375) Reagan lhe foUowlng Tuesday. Failure 10 report Pruzin, White (3234) vs. jackman the rcsulls to the: lnterhaU Office: wlU mc:an (8927)Young(234·3301) dlsquaUficallon of borh participants. Delaney, jennings (232·2835) vs. Result.o wlU only be: accepted If the: par· Dcsaulnicn. ( 1655) Carroll (6802) tidpant> have wmplc:tcd the proper Inter· Eversman ( 3260) Brown ( 3264) vs. hall insuran<·c forms. After the first round Freeman (I 782) Catcrine ( 1584) of the: tournament, any participanl who has not met the msurancc requlrcment wiU be The following pairs received byes in the droppc:d from compc:lltion. first·round ofcompetition: 
Fatum, Fullmer Phillips, Bell Stiglmcir, Lacaance Schmitl., Wolfe 
MEN'S Helle, Grothaus PhiUlps (1747) Hovig (1752) vs. Mul· Snyder, Rademaker ligan (3339) Callahan (33611) Kaput, Norris McKenna ( 1700) Cerise: ( bl68) vs. Moc:Uer, Malady M.:Kelvcy ( 11923) Herron ( 8941) Meakin, Cambell 
Rritlc:s · Sc:jnbaluk ( 1802) vs. M.:Gowan Baesen, Bunon · Purk(2257) Bra.o;sard, Onufrak O'Brien, O'Brien ( 232·21135) vs. O'Brien, Payne 
Houlihan (3222) Fc,..lc:r ( 6431 ) Hoesen ( 1694) Burton ( 1736) vs. Maz· WOMEN'S zarrcUa, Farino ( 8 I 70) Miller:uanson, -Bye Dean (8713) Klrn (3479) vs. Sills Owens, Welsh-Bye (1702)Folc:y(l679) Salvador (1258) Taiamar (1259) vs. Ruddick (liM I) Calvin ( 8630) vs. Rigali Hayes, M<·Manus ( 111114) (I 654) Power (67111) Kehoe ( 1266) &hiUing ( 1267) vs. Elsenrular (3264) K:oiris ( 3263) vs. Schmid, Robinson ( 3352) Schmidt, Crabe: ( 1602) Lcitzing<·r. Rice ( 7753) vs. Miller, Lack Hurbridgc ( 4 531 ) Morton ( 6 71 0) vs. (1296) Martinez (8646 )juhn>ton (8637) Mcycn.. Gorski ( i327) vs. Lara (277· Ptau. Plcr<·c ( IH4) vs. Donlus (111110) 11757) llcresord (277·877) Chludztn>kl ( 3167) Funk, Mdiarth ( 1334) vs. Gu.:kien, Hale 0B2) Slmp"'m vs. Hatfield Hubc:n ( I 275) ( 1212) Hurler ( 121 0) But.:hku ( 1323) Bowers vs. M.:Hugh Nola, O'NeUI ( 1791) vs. Sirrianni ( 4 5113) Sorapure ( 6 762) 
cing -that's In everything," states sophomore Susan Valdlserri, who at 5-4, 115 pounds is only the second sophomore to captain Notre Dame's women's fencing team. 
The first Irish woman to gain the captain's role was Susan's sister Kathy, who graduated in 1978. 
Susan credits her sister with get­ting her family interested In fencing. "Kathy was the one who started our family going. She had seen thejunior Worlds that were held here In 1973 and she talked to Coach DeCicco and started fencing. That was when she was in high school and the women's team was only a club. She was an active member and when she got to college they became varsity. She was captain her sophomore, junior and senior years. 
"My brother, Tom, was also on the fencing team his freshman, sop­homore and junior years, but this year he decided to do some other things." 
Kathy Valdiserri finished her fen­cing career here with a record of 157-29, (84 percent). Tom closed his career with a record of 24-12, (67 percent). 
Susan started fencing when she was a sophomore at South Bend's St. joseph's High School. And she joined the team when she came to Notre Dame. 
In her rookie season Susan 
enjoyed an excellent season with 21 
wins and 13 losses. This year an even 
better season is in the makings. 
Even though she has been fencing 
for over three years Susan is still 
learning more everyday about this 
unique sport. "I have just realized win because he fights and uses his aggressiveness and strength. 
"When you fence you should use your finesse and your wits to help you outsmart your opponent. You do use your physical ability, but you have to control it. And you have to wait and try to anticipate what your opponent is going to do. You wait until they make their mistake so you can make your move. When you out­smart your opponent then that becomes fencing. You are still using your physical ability, but you are 
now using your mental ability as well," says Susan. 
Susan's father, Roger Valdlserri, is the Sports Information Director and Assistant Athletic Director at Notre Dame. "My father would always en­courage my brothers and sister and me no matter what we wanted to do. If it is what we want then he is for us all ofthe way." 
As for her future in fencing Susan says, "I am going to give fencing on the collegiate level my shot. And I'll see what becomes of that. It is pos­sible that Icould shoot for the Olym­pics. Coach DeCicco always used to tell me when I was younger 'We are going to get you Into the Olympics' But now fencing has gotten a little more popular and the competition is tougher. 
"I might shoot for the Olympics, 
but if I didn't make it I would not be 
extremely disappionted. That would 
mean that I didn't start early enough 
and that 1 wasn't as dedicated as 1 
should have been." 
Susan also speaks very highly of 
Coach Mike DeCicco, who has won years old, but 1 never appreciated unril I was older. He has been very helpful and supportive. Sometimes 1 can be a pain because 1 always asK for lessons and he will always give me a lesson. He would do anything for anybody. 
"He has also helped my family through some very dlfficulr Urnes. Coach DeCicco is a very compas· sionate and great guy," emphasizes 
J Susan. 
DeCicco abo thinks very highly of his young fencer. "She started with me as a young lady who came to watch her sister taking fencing les­sons. She started fencing two years before she ever came ro Notre Dame. She has great, great athletic ability and she is a great sports lady. 
"She Is very intelligent and she lis­tens and takes instructions excep­tionally well. 1 think that that Is the big reason why she, as a sophomore, has made such great strides In fen­cing. She has received the support and the respect of all the ladies, as they have made her their captain. 
Susan is a team leader in every sense of the word. The most important thing is that she is so damn smart. In fact I have to be on my toes for fear that I might tell her something on Tuesday and then say something ex­actly opposite on Thursday and she will begin to think that I am a jackass. 
"Susan has had great success so far and hopefully," concludes DeCicco, before she is a senior and leaves us as far as fencing goes, she will make her mark on national fencing." 

Classifieds 
NOTICES 

there'S MORE TO THE STORY THAN MEETS THE EYE 
professional typing. Term papc:rs, theocs, etc. Tape: transcrip­tion. Last year's >arne low prices. AU work guaranleed. aardvark automatic solution•. 2119·6753. 
typing · will du typing in my home. Tc:rrn Papc:n., etc. 233·6730. 
pi tau sigma members, including new inductee:>, plea><: attend impor· tant membership meeting Thrsday, january 29, 7:00 p.m. In Fitzpalrick Hall, room 355. 
bruce, you're the greatest! 
rhursday night scalf 

attentionI thursday night bowling league now for· MJNG. llANDICAP LEAGUE CONSISTING OF 5·MAN TEAMS, STARTING IN EARLY FEBRUARY FOR FURTHER INFO CAU RAY AT 6M2. TO TURN IN TEAM ROSTERS CAU TOM AT 3039. 
19111 GRADS: Resumes n'PESET ( camc:ra ready). Special I I 0. Close to N.D. Call272·3716. 
\ LOST/FOUND \ 
lost·Lost·Lost llxU Bm ~nvlp 
Field Museum 
Flah Biology Chris 288-117311 lost blue bookbag. PLEASE CAUKEN AT 1632. 
lost cross pen set. ONE WITH FELT TIP, THE OTHER IS A BLUE BAUP(llNT WITH NO MONOGRAM ON IT. HIGH PER­SONAL VALUE. PLEASE CAU 233­4309. 
lost; casio pocket calculator in leather case. LEFT IN STUDENTS CAR WHILE HITCH·HIKING. PLEASE CAU 233· 4309. 
FOR RENT 

for Rent: Cozy apt. for rent ncar River & Park. Sl50/mo. Call 232· 4549. 
furnished house for rent couple blocks from campus and furnished country house for rent, 12 minutes to N.D. 277·3604, 288-0955. 
2 bedroom bungalow, carpc:tcd, par· tiaUy furnished, I 0 minUies to N.D.; good arc:a. 288-0955. 
nice houses for rent for next school year or summer. Furnished, good neighborhood, close to campus. 277·3604, 288-0955. 
ncar NO. Furn. Apt. Kltchcnettc, lltiUUcs 272·6174. 
great olf·CAMPUS APT.-·1 bdrm.; central air/heat; carpc:tcd; washer/ dryer; bus-line; close: to banks, grocery; pets OK. 121 5/mo. Lease and deposit. 287·1698. 
FOR SALE 

for Sale 1974 AMC Hornet. Good Condition. 1200 
for Sale: 1974 AMC Hornet. Good Condition. 1250. Call David 233· 3658. 
TICKETS 

need 2 GA TICKETS FOR ND·UCLA BASKETBAll. GAME. PLEASE CAU SHIRLEY AT 8661 OR 1715 BEFORE 5P.M. 
need ucla ga'S.·CAU MATT AT 232·0921. 
wanted; 1 UCLA TICKET, STU· DENT OR GA. PLEASE CAU PAT AT 277·8727 
need 2 UCLA GA'S. Calljim, 46)3. 
parents coming for jpw. NEED TWO GA TlX FOR UCLA. PLEASE CAUMARGAT6879. 
desperately need two UCLA GA'S pay big U call 1174 
need 4 GA UCLA TICKETS. CAll. BOWAT4510 
need 6 G.A. TICKETS FOR BOSTON·N.O. DB GAME ON FEB. 
10. WIU  PAY  BIG  UU. CAll.  
DOUG, 277·2787 .  
wanted;  one  student  ticket  

to the: ucla game. WIU PAY Ul. CAU MICHEllE AT 1363. 
need 2 Ux for UCLA game. Call Ellccn at 8042. 
bless me with I PAIR UCLA STIJ. DENT OR GAl. RECEIVE U U CAU GllEG 2754 lOPM Oil LATEll 
need two g a's TO S. CAROUNA HOOP GAME, FOR MY BROTHER SO HE WIU BRING MY STEREO. CAUII598 
will lrade south carolina student ticket for feb. 28 OAYfON STUDENT TICKET. CAU MIKE, 1652. 
PERSONALS 
social conc~ms film series begins this week with the great santlnl. 
margie brasall and molly wouUc, Good luck on compsi U you fall, at least you'll get to stick around a little 
longer!  (Too  bad  I'll  be  gonc..J  
hope:!)  
scoop  

yes, FOLKSIII YOU TOO can wlab El· len Bernard an cxucmdy FEISTY BIRTHDAY today, simply by dlaUng 7813. But don't delay, call today. Roommates arc standing by awaiting yourcaU ( ian'tthat all thc:y ever dol). 
cathy foster for umc U I U call 1362 AND PLEDGE YOR SUPPORT IIIII 
rosemary ll.lr.ca perverts and be ll.lr.caber. 
bow was your date Saturday nlpll with CEUOPHANE WOMAN?11111 
dear Sue F. 
He:~ Ia your Iona awaited per· aonall ( thla Ia the: third time: thai I've u1tm thc:m to print thla) Tbanb for calllnf l'unday, ll wu pat to talk 10 you. Haft fun on bcc:ak. Hope to 1c:c: you upon your rctum. 
Loft, Sc:.n 
little Ecklepwnp, 
Have a fun time thll weekend ­we'U mlaa you! Say hi to Rocky for mel (I AM a8Yro)l 
mary Coogan and Anne: Marie Ycaarr, 
1banl<l so mucb for the: excellent cake. Cbocolalc waa ow favorite: ftavOI'. 11wJka so much. Sc:e you ~al ooon for dinner. 
John and Mike 
anne Marie and Mary, 
Thank you fur making my birthday a special one. I hope to sec more of you and your chocolate cakes In tbc future. 
Mike 
q; what Ia the: favorite dCSIICrt In the Yukon? A:. Sorry, the: answer Ia too obvious to print. 
Judging from UW joke, Moooc Control needs a hollday. Anyone wiahing to submit terrible moose jokes to thla space sbould ~end thc:m to The: ObKrvc:r, care ofMooac Con· troL Wc'U print any clean, a& least 
mildly amusing mooac joke that has n01 prc:violllly been uacd hc:rc:. Help Moooc Control -ICnd your idcaanowl 
Mike Monk, Sorry fur getting you out of the shower. And Happy Birthday. Molly 
Is there mo~ to Ilk than meaning? Ask Pippin, Feb. 6, 7, 12, 13 and 14. 
to Mike, my favorite boss: Sorry 1 didn't keep your birthday quiet, but I couldn't resist. I hope: 
you  have  a  "swcatcr·lcu" b-day!  
(They're Cunner!)  
Love,  

Monica P.~.: Docsjennifer know abOut us? 


r-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
Thursday, january 29, 1981 -page 12 

Wrestlers in good shape for Scranton tourney 
By LOUIE SOMOGYI ( 1-S) will compete with lone senior Sports Wrltt'T Steele Mehl for either the 167 or 177-pound weight bracket:.. 
Lady Luck has finally smiled on "We'll put the strongest of the the Notre Dame wrestling team, as it three at 167 while the next at 177. heads this week to the University of That way we stand a better chance in Scranton for the National Catholic winning in a single weight class," ex­Invitational Tournament with op­plains Bruno. timism after its most impressive out­"Agostino has just been great ing in last Saturday's three match coming in for us. You don't expect sweep ofConcordia, North Park, and mu<:h from a South Bend walk-on, Aurora. hut he's delivered. Skinner's a first 
"Our people our pretty happy," year sophomore who also has been says first year coach Brother Joseph doing well for us and shows great Bruno. "After all the injuries, weight promise. Schmitt and Dahlhauscr vacancies, and disappointing losses both have done incredibly well we've had, we've had to rely on inex­while stepping into their weight perienced wrestlt:rs. But they've just classes -and above it." been doing super. And now I really It will probably be the ex­feel that we arc coming together as a perienced members of the squad 
team." who must shoulder the burden of 
The Irish (6-7) have indeed laid success in the upcoming tourna­the burden for success on freshmen ment. and sophomores. Rookie Joe Agos­Sophomore Mark Fisher ( 11-6-2) 
tino (7-2) and sophomore Doug will wrestle at 126 pounds, trying to Skinner ( 1-0-1) will vie for the 142-win a second individual title in a dif­pound class rites at Saturday's meet. ferent weight class. Last year Fisfter Two other freshmen, Karl won the Invitational's 118-pound Dahlhauser (3-3) and Mike Schmitt crown. 
Juniors Curt Rood (8-9-1) and John Campana ( 14-5-1) will go at the 134 and 150 weight classes, respectively. Both Rood and Cam­pana hold impressive six-match win­
ning streaks. Junior captain Fred Kitziger (9-5) or his classmate Brian Erard ( 6-11 ) 

Matvey leads Irish to victory over Belles 
By DAVE WILSON mance." Dallessio was unusually optimistic guard Anne Armstrong. Lisa Schirz will get the nod at I58 pounds.
Sports Writer The game was much closer than despite the loss. came off the bench to throw in 13 "Any of our wrestlers have athe final score might suggest. Notre "Our game plan was to keep it for the Belles as well. 
chance to win a title Saturday," says Shari Matvey poured in 25 points Dame opened up an 18-8 lead at the close going into the second half," he Bruno. 

in leading Notre Dame to a convinc­quarter, but Saint Mary's countered observed, "and that's exactly what "John Carroll and Notre Dame arcing 59-44 basketball victory last with an impressive 12-2 tear that left we did. 
The Irish and Matvey were backed traditionally the top teams in the night over Saint Mary's in Angela the game tied at twenty apiece late by four players with eight points Catholic Invitational," adds Bruno,Athletic Facility. The win enabled in the first half. The Irish held a slim apiece: Theresa Mullins, Molly Ryan, "the rest are of average strength."

the Irish to boost their undefeated 25-24 edge at halftime. 
"We had a few problems with tur­Missy Conboy, and Tricia McManus. (The Irish won the tournament in record against the Belles to nine In the second half, Saint Mary's novers, and we couldn't stop Mat­
1978 and placed third the last two wins without a loss. Saint Mary's was held to just three points in 10 vey, but I'm very satisfied with the The Belles will travel to Hanover years).dropped to 6-6 on the season while minutes as Notre Dame once again performance of my team tonight. 
College for a tournament this "We're strongest in tourna­Notre Dame advanced to 7-8. built up a 10-point lead, 37-27. The We learn a lot from games such as weekend in hopes of ending a four­ments," concludes Bruno. "In dual "We playt·d a terrific defensive Irish then coasted to victory, backed these." 

game losing streai<, while the Irish meets we lose six points for a torfeit, game," said Notre Dame coach Mary by Matvey's sharpshooting and the 

will remain at home to face the Distanislao. "0( course, Shari Mat­team's strong defense. Saint Mary's garnered 1 7 points Gamecocks of South Carolina on See GRAPPLERS, page 8 vcy had another outstanding perfor-For the Belles, Coach Jerry and another outstanding game from Saturday. 
Notre Dame women, 1984 
"Good evening ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the Twilight Zone for this afternoon's game between the University of South Carolina and the University of Notre Dame. 
"At times, this may appear to be an ordinary basket­Sports Writer ball game hut in fact, it is not. We will be embarking upon a journey through a time tunnel, where we will encounter the future." 
Indeed, Saturday's contest hardly will be a typical basketball game. On the surface, it promises to be a freshmen -to a player the Notre Dame squad believes rout. But the final score will offer very little indication In DiStanislao and her program. ofthe importance ofthe game. And Saturday, the Irish will experience firsthand 
Saturday will be Notre Dame's version of1984. Only what DiStanislao has been drumming into their heads Digger Phelps and Mary DiStanislao are the authors rat­since October. They'll see what happens when a team her than George Orwell. Their message is simple -makes crisp passes. They'll find out what happens when "'This is what we are now, and this is what we are tomor­a team gets position for a rebound. Most of all, they'll row." learn what happens when a team plays with poise and 
What Notre Dame is now is a young, struggling team. confidence. To the Irish, a.500 season looks like the Garden ofEden. While approaching Saturday's game with a realistic A 50 percent shooting night Is like hitting the jackpot at attitude, DIStanislao is hoping to see positive things Vegas -It only happens to other people. from her team. 
Other people like South Carolina. "Obviously, South Carolina is the best team we've 
The Lady Ganit·cocks began the week as the nation's faced," she admits. "But I think the girls are really thirteenth-ranked team with a 9-5 record. Coach Pam looking forward to playing them. We've got to go Into Par.10ns led her team to the AlAW Division I Final Four the game with the attitude that we want to play as well last winter, slipping past DIStanislao's Northwestern as we possibly can. We want to reach the point where squad In the process. we play the same way against South Carolina as we do 
South Carolina is today what Notre Dame hopes to be against Taylor. We're striving for consistency. tomorrow. And there Is little doubt that for the Irish, the "On paper, this game stacks up one way, but Ifwe get future Is soon. out on the ftoor and do the thlnWJ we're supposed to do, 
When DIStanislao arrived on campus, she let her thlnWJ may tum out another way." 
...._,

record speak for itaclf -a pair of Big Ten Titles, and In case you're wondering, Notre Dame will be bertha In the AlA W Division I semifinals In each of her wearing the white jerseys and South Carolina the red 
f -­last two seasons at Nonhwestern, a school with an onea Saturday afternoon. But In a year or two, that will 
academ.lc comminment very simillar to Notte Dame's. be the only way you'll be able to tell the two teams Andree bas been playinggreat basketball latelyfor tbelrlsb, But now, despite a 7-8 record, DIStanlslao's team apart. :md his services will be greatly needed Ibis Saturday against Soutb does the talldng. Veterana and rookies, seniors and You better believe it. Carolina. Game lime bas been changedfrom 1:30 to 8 p.m. 


