-----~-------------------, 
• .Hunger -page3
• 
----------------------------------~-----------------------------------------­

an mclt-pcndc-nr srudenr newspaper serving,..notrc dame and saint mary's FRIIJAY,JANllARY .30, 19HI 
Reagan abolishes '\Vage council 
By DONALD M. ROTHBERG As for his own view of Soviet in­tent, Reagan said, "I know of no leadt.·r of the Soviet Union since the 
WASIIINGTON (AP)-Prt·sident n·volution, including the present Rt·agan. saying thnt· has to he ·a leadership, that has not repeated l'hangt· in dirn:tion" in the country. more than once...that their goal announced Thursday he is aholish­
Political Writer 
must he world domination." 
ing the Coundl on Wage and Prict· Announcing the freeze on pen­Stahility and prohihiting l't-tkral ding federal regulations, the new agencies from implernt·nting new president said the action would give 
rt·gulations for 60 days. his administration time "to start a In an opening statt·mt·nt at his first new regulatory oversight process 
news confl'rntct· sinn· taking oftke. and also prevents certain last­Reagan said the Council on Wage minute regulatory decisions of the and PritT Stability, which adminis­previous administration -the so­
ternl the Carter administration's called 'midnight regulations' anti-inllation program "has heen to· from taking effect without proper tally indkl'livt· in controlling inlla­review and approval." tion and has imposed unnecessary Aholition of tht· Council on Wagt· hurdt·ns on lahor and husiness." and Price Stahility would cut 120 
As for hudget cuts, Rt·agan said no persons from the federal payroll. He 
area of govt·rnment will he exempt said he will ask Congress to rescind and he added that "the time has its budget of SI. c; million. come when· there has to he a changt· in direction in this country." 
"We have lived ht·ytmd our means," ht· said. "We must gain con­trol of this inllationary monster." 
On Iran, Reagan said, "''m certain­
Jerusalem Committee confirms civic unity
ly not thinking of revt•ngt·." 
The prcsitknt saitl he expects the (Jnitctl States will honor the agree­By MIKE O'BRIEN The statement came at the close lek as "functioning remarkably each nationality retaining its own ments that kd to rdeast· of the U.S. StaffReporter of the two-day conference in which well." quarter ofthe city and administering hostagt•s. 23 North American members of the Another co-host of the meeting, its religious shrines. 
A day after his sct:retary of state Members of the Jerusalem Com­committee met here to discuss Notre Dame President Fr. Theodore Hesburgh added that all these soundt•tl a new hard line toward the mittee yesterday released a state­issues relating to the political future Hesburgh, recognized the t.·urrent agreements presume tht· existence Soviet llnion, Reagan said that "so ment confirming the indivisibility of ofJerusalem. tranquility and Kollek's leadership ofan adjacent Arah entity. far, detente has hecn a one-way the ancient city and calling for The three-page summary praised abilities ofthe unified city as holding Charles M. Uaar, a Harvard law street that the Sovkt llnion has used "increased delegation of municipal the administration ofpresent mayor "the promise of enabling Jerusalt:m professor, argued that .Jerusalem for its own ends." functions" to its local communities. and conference co-host Teddy Kol-to fulfill its historic role as the city of needs a written legal bast· to a.~sure 
peace." residents that respect for their rights 
Along with its two major points, will not he swept away. the committee's statement resolved Haar's analysis caused tht· overall that the city continue to provide committee to stress the need for 
universal access to religious shrines, community participation in areas review outdated city codes govern­such a.~ education and community ing planning and land development, servke. and further facilitate interaction be­The committee further suggested 
ofgas and diesel fuel goes up c;o per­But the cost of energy is a dif­tween the city's inhabitants. that the city revise its municipal 
Gasolineprices still rising 
By ROBERT MACY 
cent, that would mean only a 3 per­ferent story down on the farm. Four discussion groups provided codes guiding planning and land
Associated Press Writer 
cent increase." Lutton said energy makes up l 0 the basic material of the statement. development, which art· prt·sently Then no big deal, right? percent of the cost of operating a Each working group met in private based on an outdated 19.H BritishKANSAS CITY, Mo. ( AP) 
Wrong, Lutton said. farm. He said many farmers won't sessions Wednesday night, but some Colonial Code.
Amerkan farmers, heset hy 20 per­
"The supermarket people and of the results were discussed early Boston architect Moshe Safdk
cent interest rates and roller-coaster feel the pinch immediately because 
others through thc food chain sec for yesterday morning. told the group that the physkal plan­
graln prkes sparked hy the Soviet they've stockpiled fuel spring 
grain embargo, arc ahout to take this (fuel) increase and they planting. But summer and fall har­According to Fr. Theodore Hes· ning committee advocated "softer automatically say, 'We've got to raise vests are a different story. hurgh, the committee on the city as edges" of division ht·twccn the
another hlow -in the gas tank. 
A U.S. Department of Agril:ulture prkes.' We see an awful lot of price a religious and cultural center peoples of the city. gouging going on (in situations like See GASOLINE, page 5 agreed that Jerusalem remain
economist predicted yesterday that See UNI'IY, page 6
this)." unified under Israeli ~ontrol withregular gasoline would be selling for SI. 'iO to SI. 70 a gallon by the end of 1981 -a hike of 2'i to 40 percent ove'r eurrent prices. B-P break-in 
"The effect on net farm income is anybody's guess," said Tom Lutton of the USDA energy research group 
Basement window entryfor intruder 
at its National Economics Division in Washington. Uepartment officers, however, could not locate anyone after combing the
By MARY FRAN CALLAHAN 
area.
FRIDAy.:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: Senior Copy Editor Police have described the suspect as a black, frizzy-haired, dark-eyed male ofslender build in his late teens or early twenties.:::===========:=:=::::FOCUS A male -who Dean of Students James Roemer said could have fit "a The man sought for the]an. 16 rape is also wanted for armed robbery. He 
description similar to the alleged rapist" -broke into Breen Phillips early 
carried a small blue revolver ofsmall caliber at the time ofthe rape.Wednesday morning by climbing through an unlocked basement window. 
At that time, the man wore an orange ski mask, and a navy windbreaker "All I know is that some guys are The Incident has led Roemer to send letters to hall rectors in an effort to 
with red and light blue vertical stripes running down the front. going 10 be put in a terrible squeeze. stress the importance of"being on the alert." 
Breen Phillips rector Sr. Patricia Dowd yesterday said that dorm residents There could he a lot offarmers going Shortly after 4 a.m. Wednesday morning, a Breen Phillips security guard­
will be warned in section meetings of the incident and cautioned to "lock 
out of business this year because making her usual rounds in the hall -discovered the intruder in a basement 
their doors and be a little more conscious if they're studying in a studythey don't have the money up front." corridor. According to Roemer, the woman's two-way radio was out for lounge at that hour in the morning."
Anti the harried consumer? · repair, so she promptly ran to telephone the Security department. 
Roemer said his letter informed rectors ofthe importance ofensuring that 
"In terms ofactual cost ofproduc­The intruder, however, "bolted out the same window he came in," the dormitory security guards consistently check to see that windows are tion, energy is a very small portion," according to the dean. 
locked. Lutton said. "When you consider the Security officials arrived immediately at the dorm, but could not detect 
He also said that last Monday's burglar, who entered Dillon Hall under the cost of production through the any sign ofthe intruder, Roemer said. 
guise of a janitor, remalns in jail. Since Security officials apprehended theentire food chain (from planting the "It wouldn't have made much difference even ifthe guard's radio had been 
17-year-old youth, the youth has been unable to post bail. 
crop to selling it at the super­working because the escape took just a matter ofseconds," Roemer added. 
"This means there's someone else out there," Roemer sald. He cautioned market), energy accounts fi>r only 2 Last Sunday evening, Security received a report that a man similar to the 
female students against walking alone and added that all dorm windows and pen·ent ot tht· cost. Even if the price police description of the alleged rapist was seen walking south on U.S. 31. doors should be locked. 
I 
I 



) 
Friday, january 30, 1981 -page 2
NewsBrieb 
c===~~=============================================~
by The Observer and The Associated Press 
Angie R. Chamblee, advisor in the Freshman Year of Studies at the University of Notre Dame, has been promoted to the new position of assistant dean of Freshman Studies, it has been an­nounced by Prof. Timothy O'Meara, provost. According to Freshman Studies Dean Emil T. Hofman, Mrs. Chamblee will continue to coun~el freshmen, look after special interests of minority students, develop programs to deal with the needs of handicapped, injured or sick stu­dents, and provide liaison with the residence hall staffs and the Office of Student Affairs. Mrs. Chamblee entered Saint Mary's College in 1969, but received her degree in psychology from Notre Dame in 1973. She went on to earn a master's degree in educational counseling 
from Michigan State University in 1974 and worked in the St. Joseph County Housing Allowance office before joining the Freshman Year staff in 1976. The Freshman Year of Studies was established at Notre Dame in 1962 and provides a common curriculum in general educa­tion fur all freshmen as well as an opportunity to sample academic areas before making a commitment to a major and being admitted to one ofthe University's four colleges. -The Observer 
Still suspicious ofIran, the Reagan administration will not deliver more than S450 million in U.S. military equipment purchased by the government of the late shah, Secretary of State Alexander M. Haig said. Although Iran's revolutionary government has not requested delivery ofthe equipment, Haig made it clear Wednes­day that the United States had no intention ofhonoring that purchase agreement even if Iran :tsks for the goods and will not enter into any future contracts for military equipment with Iran. "Let me state categorically today there will be no military equipment provided to the government oflran, either under earlier obligations and contrac­tual arrangements, or as yet unstated requests," he said. Haig said the United States might try to sell the military equipment -mostly spare parts for lJ.S.·built jet fighters, tanks, helicopters and other weapons ­elsewhere and reimburse Iran for the cash value of the parts. ln a telephone interview Wednesday night withABCNews, former Iranian Foreign Minister Sadegh Ghotbzadeh called the U.S. stance "a very wrong and unwise decision at this time because ... there are some forces trying to change the entire weaponry system of Iran." A State 
Department official said the issue of military equipment, for which Iran paid S457 million, was not raised during the final negotiations that led to release of the 52 American hostages. -AP 
Taking Spain by surprise, Premi~r Adolfo S~a.rez 
was expected to announce his resignation on national telev1s1on today, the national news agency EFE said. Despite growing criticism that he lacked authority to the run the government, Suarez had been expected to withstand the convention assault and win the party presidency again. Suarez' resignation came four days before Spanish King Juan Carlos was to tour Spain's violence-torn northern Basque region but there was no immediate indication of how the premier's resignation would affect the royal visit. Although the resignation came somewhat of a shock, members of the premier's party said he still could win enough support at the national convention to gain the premiership again. The premier, appointed by the King in 1976, led the nation from the dictatorship of the late Gen. Francisco Franco to democracy after winning general elections in 1977 and 1979. A na­tional convention of Suarez' Union of Democratic Center Party, or UCD, was called off earlier in the week because the UCD said an air controllers' strike made it impossible to get delegates to the conven­tion site in Majorca. But party dissidents suggested the premier welcomed the delay ofa possible party showdown. -AP 
Awave ofanarchyand chaoshas led the Polish 
government to take a "harsher" stance in dealing with the labor unrest that is Wipping the country. Warning strikes and sit-in protests con­tinued yesterday in a wide semi-circle from Poznan to the town of Ustrzyki Dolne a few miles from the Soviet frontier, heightening con­cern ofpossible Soviet intervention in Poland. Soviet and Eastern-bloc troops have been massed at the Polish border since last fall. Last night, the Soviet Union issued a second harsh commentary in as many days on events in Poland, accusing the independent trade union Solidarity of"intensifying anarchy in the country." In its warning broadcast by Polish Radio, the government said, "The Council ofMinisters declares that, by virtue of its constitutional rights, it is obliged to ensure law and order and discipline." The communique said ifthe current "state ofaffairs" continued, the government "will have to take the necessary decisions to ensure the normal functioning of plants and enterprises in accordance with the best social interests." The communique did not elaborate on possible action. The government said "anarchy and chaos are entering the life of the state endangering the fate of the homeland and its citizens. Forces hostile to the socialist system are getting active." -AP 
jogging the CatnpUS road on Monday morning, a 
Notre Dame student says that she was pursued by a man in a car. As the woman passed the Grotto, the driver proceeded to wait for her ­parking a few yards down the road. The student ran and then con­tacted the Notre Dame Security Office to report the incident. She was told "all the officers were busy working on a laundry theft" and that she should "be careful." The following morning, however, the same car passed the student twice as she jogged the road. The woman said she "did not bother" reporting the second incident to Security due to the way the department handled her first report. -The Observer 
Sunny and cold today. High in the mid 20s. Clear and cold at night with the low around 10 degrees. Increasing cloudi­ness Saturday. High in the upper 20s. -AP 
--~L---------------------------------------------~ 
Jerusalem:Violence andPR 
While most of us kicked snow and attended to the business ofJanuary this week, a robust gentleman with silver hair and the thick, low accent of Israel com­manded the attention of 26 intellectuals and interna­tional leaders assembled here at the invitation of Fr. Hesburgh.,..Their subject was Jerusalem, but keep reading. 
Most Americans pay little attention to Israeli affairs, or for that matter, affairs in the confusing Middle East. Most ofthe cities' names are hard to pronounce, and the politics are almost incomprehensible without some background. Most of the relevant issues are fueled by hate and jealousy, and the dividing line between fac­tions is religious rather than ideological. The group of distinguished guests invited here by Fr. Hesburgh is known as The Jerusalem Committee, and they were here to spread the gospel ofpeace and productivity. 
The gentleman who commanded their attention is Teddy Kolleck, the mayor of Jerusalem. He presides over a city troubled by the distinction of being the "Holy City" for three different religions, and like so many political issues in that region, the battle over who controls the city is one infused with years of religious and cultural prejudice. At present, Israel controls the city: they have for thirteen years. But this fact never has gone down easily with their Arab neighbors, who liked things much better when their ally Jordan was in charge. 
Control of the city has recently stirred fresh talk of trouble in the middle east, primarily due to Israeli Prime Minister Menachem Begin's recent declaration that Jerusalem is now the capital oflsrael. The declara­tion meant nothing in 
reality, but the idea of Israel moving their Knesset from Tel Aviv to the coveted Holy City ruffied a few turbans in neighboring Jordan. and whenJordan is bummed you can be sure the rest ofthe Arab states are, too. 
Jordan ran the city for 19 years until Israel regained control in the famous six-day war of 1967. By most ac­counts, the city floundered during that period. The im­portant shrines of all three religions were neglected, Jews were discriminated against, and the economy suf­fered from a lack of the tourist trade it needs to sustain itself. It wasn't a pleasant place, according to The Jerusalem Committee. 
Today, under Israeli rule, the Moslem residents of Jerusalem are not exactly pleased to be Israeli citizens, but they don't stir up too much trouble about it. Why? The mayor says the answer is simple: they are in reality independent and they have a better standard ofliving. 
Kolleck ticks off the many improvements made in the city: 650,000 Moslem and Christian tourists make their way to Jerusalem each year, way up from the smaller numbers underJordanian rule, and those tourists spend money. The Holy shrines are in better condition, and they are run by members of the appropriate religion. 

The_OhserJ?:e 
Design Editor................... Ddrdre Murphy Design Assistants ..........Kevin Korowicki Layout Staff. ........................... BiU Hermann 
Anne Marie Jehle, Don Rodriguez Typesetter ............................... Bruce Oakley NewsEditor ............................. Pam Dc:gnan Copy Edttor ........................ Carol Mullaney FeaJuresLayout........ Ryan Ver Berkmoes Sports Copy Editor.............. Chris Needles Typists ............................ Marilyn Broderick Systems Control..................... Marty Hynes ND DayEdltor...........Ryan Ver Berkmoes SMC DayEditor.................. Eileen Murphy Pbotograpber .......................... }ackie Wasni 
Ad Design ...........................................Woody 
The O.bsarver (USPS 598 920) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is8ubiished by the students of Notre arne and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $20 per year ($10 per semester) by writing The Observer, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

Some areas have been restored: the road betw1:en the sixth and seventh Station of the Cross, for instance, is being repaved in the original style of the Herodian period. Even the sewage system, Kolleck pointed out, is "better taken care of." 
These are the improvements, according to the com­mittee, and even ifone has never been to the Holy City to see them for oneself, certain patterns are evident. Terrorism activity, which plagues many of the con­tested spots along Israel's West Bank, does nm much rear its ugly head in Jerusalem. According to Kolleck, terrorism is bad for tourism, and the Moslem residents who realize this want nothing to do with their Pales­tinian brothers who, having no homeland oftheir own, 
frequently stir up trouble in Israeli territory. The PLO is bad for business, and they are not accepted by Jerusalem's Arabs. 
On the other hand, no Arabs hold office in the city. This, Kolleck says, is the result of their fear of retalia­tion by other Arabs. Other religions around the world have nothing to fear by the precedent of Israel becom­ing the sovereign ofan inter­national city, Kolleck maintains, because of the empathy Israel holds for its Arab minorities and all minorities. 
So what is the Jerlllsalem 
Committee and why does it convene at Notre Dame? Well, let's put it this way: King Hussein ofJordan is not exactly an invited guest, and no Palestinian was at the formal dinner Wednesday night. 
The members of the committee, who range: from architects to poets and economists and include the likes of Buckminster Fuller, are interested in "cultural" Jerusalem, but as Mayor Kolleck pointed out at yester­day's press conference, all questions concerning Israel are inherently both cultural and political, and to that extent the group is one devoted to a political end: the maintenance of an undivided city under Israeli rule. 
During his three-day stay at the Morris Inn, it was business as usual in the political Middle East. Just before the press conference started yesterday, a conference of Arab states presented the rest of the world with their own declaration which called for aHijad, or holy war. Kolleck said that he was not concerned by the hot air of his Arab neighbors; he is concerned only with words which are productive and spread peace and hopt:. 
Plenty ofthese words were spread here this week.

--Posters! -­


Thousands of large and small poster~s 
to choose from. Cover your bare walls or peeling plaster. 

RIVER CITY RECORDS 
50970 US 31 North 277-4242\ Open until 10 every niQht 


r--------------;----------­
1y· tl-f'.t-'fRIC-.tlJ~~~~:ai<B 
I \'T "\..'" r\n9 & 13\\'\,
I cornerSP 
I StuffedHouRs:1 Tues.. Wed .. Thurs. p • 
I 4to1o IZZB
I Fn &Sat. 4 to 11 Our Specialty
1I $1.00off any size stuffed pizza 
1 with student ID· I good thru Feb. 28 
b2~~~f~~~~~~~~---_!~~~2-~ 
--~--~----------­
The Observer I Friday,Januacy 30, 1981 -p:ge 3 
Former O~o gove~or 
discusses world hunger 

By DAVID RICKABAUGH 
StAfflteporter 
Former Ohio Governor John Gil­
ligan discussed world hunger and 
the poSiilble solutions In the lecture, 
"One World? or Two? or Three? 
Where Will You Uve?," yesterday at 
the Notre Dame Law School. 
The N.D. graduate emphasized the difference between the "wealthy, powerful, and educated first world" and the "poor, uned­ucated, and not fully-human second world." 
He used the nation ofSouth Africa to depict the three ideologies ofthe first world. In this nation the power· ful whites are classified into three categories: those who think It Is their duty to control the nation, those who feel the nation exists on a Darwinist theory of survival of the fittest, and those who are outraged at the exploitation of non-whites in their homeland. 
Gilligan stated, "The world is South Africa expanded; we are all citizens of South Africa." He then a.'iked the audience a question, "What group of South Africa whites are you ln." 
The former member of the U.S. House of Representatives explained that the problem of world hunger still exists because those who have the power and the resources to end the crisis fall to do so. 
"The world is controlled by the industrialized nations who control the world's resources, thus the un­derdeveloped nations of the world can gain political independence but never obtain the economic resources to control their destiny," commented Gilligan. He lncor· porated into his lecture the theory that world hunger will continue un­til the governments of developed countries devote their capabilities to solving world poverty. 
The irony of the situation is that I 5 percent of the world -the in· dustrlal nations -control 80 per­cent of the earth's resources, whereas the remaining 85 percent of the world manages only 20 per· cent of the total resources. 
Influenza 
sufferers fill 
Infirmary 
By DAVID SARPHIE 
StaffReporter 
The campuses of Notre Dame and 
Saint Mary's have been hard hit In 
recent weeks by an outbreak of in· 
fluenza. Although not positively 
identified as the Bangkok strain 
which has struck harshly throug­
hout the U.S. in the past month, doc­
tors at the ND Student Health Center 
have been busy with an extra load of 
patients. In addition, several stu­
dents have complained of poor 
treatment at the infirmary. 
According to Dr. Robert 
Thompson, the infirmary has been 
inundated with patients having 
symptoms of the Bangkok flu. 
"About three-fourths of our beds 
have remained occupied in the past 
weeks," he reported. "This still 
doesn't compare to the epidemic 
that hit us in january of 1978." 
Thompson hesitated to call the current outbreak an epidemic, however, noting that it has begun to level off. "We have yet to bring in additional nurses," he remarked, "cxcept for those substitutes neces­sary due to the illness of regulars." 
Several students have complained about a lack ofefficient treatment at the health center. "The nurses looked like they were going out of their minds," observed one patient. 
SecFLU,JM11c6 
The former governor added, nor, "is another reason why U.S.cmi: "Rather than increasing our con­trlbutions are so low. The U.S. tributions to the world progress, citizen generally hates welfare, espe­they have: proportionately cially global welfare. Congressmen decreased. During the Marshall Plan never get mall supporting world the U.S. devoted 3 percent of the hunger legislation." GNP and 1 0 percent of the federal When it was suggested that for· budget, in 1960 only 0. 5 percent of mer members of the Peace Corps the GNP was donated, and today on­form a lobby strong enough to have ly 0.1 7 percent of the GNP and 1.2 political power, Gilligan told the percent of the federal budget is audience, "An attempt was made to given to the third-world nations." unify the 85 million Peace Corps 
Gilligan stated that the major alumni, but in the last days of the obstacle in fund allocation is the in­Nixon Administration the list ability of the U.S. government to containing the names was avoid budgets with emphasis placed destroyed." on military spending. One govern­Gilligan, after graduating from ment report on world hunger said, Notre Dame, served six terms on the "If the industrialized nations of the Cincinnati city council, one term in world contributed 20 billion dollars the U.S. House of Representatives, to starving nations for the next fif­and from 1970 to 1974 was gover­teen years, poverty would be nor of Ohio. He is currently a eliminated." The N.D. professor Thomas }. White Professor and the added that 400 bllllon dollars is Director of the Thomas and Alberta spent yearly on weaponry. White Center for Law, Government, 
"Public opinion," said the gover-and Human Rights at the Law School. 



The Observer Friday,)anuary 30, 1981 -·page 4 





()fAll~§ §(f1()()l 

IIJI§[)4l'.fii3J
Ja()() 1-it)l' (It)§§ (S,..£) JaJ() fl§li~lSa()() ~~~<lll§ SaJ() ()<llll2i>t)fll · Ch()() l3<lcll11 

11-11JI2S[)4l' t) fll3 ()
Ja()() lit)l,£ft)§§ (~()) <lllcl St. l'lll£~11t <lt 1-it)l, (It)§§ JaJ() ,..t)ffl§§t?' Sa()() l ,t)ll§ 
I§ SaJ() 1-it)W<llcl CJa()() (<lflt)• • 


-------------------------------------------------,I 
I I 

(The New Advent Loudspeaker.) I 
I 
I 


Announcing Something Worth Announcing. 


When you can offer a new version of the best-selling, most imitated speaker 
in the country, you might as well say it loud and clear. So then. Here we have (and you can too) the New Advent Loudspeaker. The original Advent became a best-seller by offering the full ten octaves 
of audible frequency response (with unsurpassed clarity, musical balance, and natural, unexaggerated overall sound), for a fraction of the previous going price. 
The New Advent has the same overall kind of sound (for the same kind of price), but with more high-frequency output to take advantage of recent improvements in recordings and broadcasts. The difference isn't gigantic (there wasn't that much room for more), but it's definitely there for the hear­ing. And it adds more lustre to the best in records, tapes and FM broadcasts. 
So come hear something worth hearing. It puts cost-no-object sound within reach and reason. 
~-----------------------.~....·~·-·-··-·-·-------------------1 
I I Iaudio tpcclalltlt, lftc. 
I 
I 
I 

401 N0RTH MICHIGAN 
I 

SOUTH BEND, INDIANA 46601 




''20%. off'' I I 
I

current supply only I 


1Largewalnut and vinyl AdventslI 
IL------------------------------------------------•I 
Turmoil 
strikes 

Iran 
By CHARLESJ. HAl'ILEY 
AssociatedPress Writer 

The cheering in America is being echoed by angry shouts of debate in Iran in the wake of the hostage release. 
Two years after toppling the shah, Iran's revolutionaries are locked more than ever in a political tug-of­war -quarreling over the place of religious leaders in nat.ional life, the conduct of the war against Iraq, and the wisdom of the hostage-taking and ofthe way it was ended. 
And a central question hangs over Iran's political life: what happens when 80-year-old, ailing Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini dks? 
"There will be a rea.! crisis when the ayatollah goes," former U.S. Am­bassador to Iran William H. Sullivan said in an interview. "There will be a lot of sound and fury before things settle down." 
The release of the 52 American hostages on Jan. 20 fueled a new confrontation between Iranian President Abolhassan Bani-Sadr, standard-bearer of the: "pragmatic" secular wing of the revolution, and Prime Minister Mohammad Ali Rajai, who represents the more con­
' servative wing dominated by the clergymen ofthe Islamic Republican Party. The personal enmity between the French-educated Bani-Sadr and the often-crude Rajai is powerful. When Rajai became prime minister last August, Bani-Sadr described the for­mer math teacher as an incom­
petent. 

Since the hostages were freed, Rajai's opponents have been grum­bling that Iran lost out on the deal 
because only S2.8 billion w~ returned from what the Iranians es­timated to be S 11.5 billion in U.S.­fro zen assets. 
Bani-Sadr declared he had nothing to do with the final negotiations, which were handled by Rajai's office, and the president's newspaper blamed che hostage­holding episode for many of Iran's current economic and political ills. 
The political divisions are reflected on the battlefront against Iraq, where the lrani.ans have fal­tered for four months. 
Bani-Sadr has taken active ...:om­mand of the war effort, strengthening his support among the regular army and air force. 
The underlying conflict in revolutionary Iran is over the role of the clergy in politic5>, an age-old debate within Islam. 
See IRAN, pagt~ 6 
St. Mary's Student Body and Class Officer Elections 
Mandatory meeting 

Wed., Feb 4 6:00 pn1 
in the Student Govt Room for all those 
interested in runnin 
ELECTION DAY 
THURS· Felb 19 


-----~---------------------------~---------------------------~-­


The Observer 
ing anyway, under phased decontrotl cent in 1980. 
signed by former President Jimmy Carter. But fuel users arc picking up the costs in one lump, rather than in pieces, from now through Septem­ber, when decontrol was originally scheduled to be completed. 
Lutton said the USDA's "best guess scenario" is that gasoline prices would have been S I. 4 5 to S 1.62 by the end of 198I without decontrol, S1.50 to $1.70 with it. 
"It will compound our escalating inflation costs," said Howard Ward, a wheat farmer from St. John, Kan. "We're selling below the cost of produt·tion now and there's no es­calator clause in our commodity prices." 
Norman Grubbs, a Hugoton, Kan., wheat farmer, agreed the hike will hurt. "But It seems to me like it's a little ridiculous to sell our own gas or oil at the well head so much cheaper than what we import," he said. "It's bc:tter to do that (decontrol prices) than have a con­tlict in the Middle East and not have any (oil)." 
Marvin Duncan, an economist with the Feral Reserve Bank in Kansas City, said Thursday he was 
... 
.··:.·.

FRIDAY cocktail hour ..·•·..· 
..·...


3-8 .· .·
.··...
.··:...

2 mixed drinks for ..·.·... 
.··.•..· l-9 
..·:..·
the price of I .··... 

..·.•..· saturday
.··..· 
.... 
..·:.··

.··..· 16oz miller...$.85 
.··.·... 
.··:.·· 
...··.·..· 
.
..... · ... 
...··...
. · .. 
..·· .... 
.· 


He said agricultural interests have known "decontrol was coming down the pike anyway" and Wed­nesday's action will prompt new economy measures on the farm. He forecast that each farmer would cut back on use of machinery such as "not tilling the ground as intensively before he plants a new crop." 
Lutton agreed that the farmer who looks for shortcuts will be the one to survive higher fuel prices. 
"If farmers can't think about less 
fuel-intensive operations like mini­
mum tillage or planting crops that 
don't need as much cultivation, 
they're going to be in trouble unless 
the (commodity) prices offset the 
higher cost offuel." 
Duncan said he expected many farmers to cut back on irrigation be­cause the pumps require fuel, and such a move might mean changing to crops that need less water. 
"The farmer in Nebraska may shift 
from alfalfa," Duncan said. 
"Farmers are a very sophisticated 
group of people," he concluded. 
"You will see them engaging in more 
and more energy-efficient tech­
niques as fuel prices rise." 
Friday,January 30, 1981 -page 5 

Student Government 



SMC announces elections 
By ANNEJANE DREGALLA 
StaffReporter 
SaJnt Mary's announced this week that elections for the 1981-82 class and Student Government officers will take place Thursday, Feb. 19. 
The election process will begin with a mandatory meeting for anyone interested in running for any office In Student Governmen' or as a class representative on Wednesday, Feb. 4, at 6 p.m. in the Student Government Office in the Regina Hall basement. The intent of this meeting will be to discuss the nominating process and campaign rules for this year's election. Ques­tions concerning this meeting may be referred to any ofthe present Stu­dent Government officers or to Margie Quinn, elections commis­sioner, at 4689. 
LeMans lobby. A copy of each plat­form will also be displayed in the dining hall for student appraisal. 
The process concludes with the elections on Feb. 19, the earliest 
" ...the more people the better ..." 
date on which they have ever been held. According to Margie Quinn, elections commissioner, the reao;ons for the change were: I ) to make the transition of officers easier, "while the pros are still around"; 2) to avoid 

clude a game room, complete with pinball and all the latest video games. 
At present, the plans call for four phases ofdevelopment, all of which will be Implemented by the manager after the final go-ahead Is given for each. The first phao;e, which Student Union Director Rich Coppola hopes to have finished by the end of the semester, Is the building of the stage the end-of-the-year rush; 3) to get a headstart on planning, thereby eliminating summer correspon­dence and contract problems; and 
4) to give the new officers time to pick commissioners without being rushed. 
The new officers are now scheduled to take office April 1. 
Hall elections are still scheduled 
to begin after room picks in late 
March and the application and inter­
view process for commissioners will 
take place following that. 
Quinn also "encourages everyone to run, the mort: people the better," and she "hopes everyone votes since the only way you can take a stand on the things you're: complaining about Is by voting." 
I 

The Observer Friday, january 30, 1981 --page 6 
Housingcontract due on Monday 
By LOUIS BREAUX 
News Staff 
The need for a junior class housing lottery will be decided next week after all the housing contracts have been turned in. The contracts are due in the Housing Office by this Monday. 
Director ofStudent Residences Fr. Michael Heppen said, "I will be very surprised if a lottery will be neces­sary this year." He said, though, that he could not be sure until all of the contracts have been turned in. 
Fr. Hcppen does not anticipate a lottery for juniors to move off­campus because of an increase in dorm space. "I do not see the need for a lottery because of the 50 addi­tional beds that will soon be available in St. Ed's Hall and the final completion of Pasquerilla East and 
West." 
Many students have expressed disillusionment with off-campus living, largely due to the continuing crime wave, and some have an­ticipated that this could present a minor housing problem if not enough students move off-campus. 
To be eligible for housing on campus, all students must return the contract by Monday. Those who are considering moving off campus should mark O.C. on the contract or face a S I 50 fine and a forfeit of the 
S50 room deposit if they fail to do 
so. 
Room picks will follow the same 
"AWESOME ..." 
-Vincent Canby. NEW YORK TIMES 

LUCAS anJ FRANCIS FORD COPPOLf ~~!) 
~
_,_.lllol~~-............. 
Twenheth Gentury.fox Presents AN AKJIM KUROSAWA fiLM· A TOHQ-I(UR~ PRODUCTION 
KAGEMUSHA ·THE SkWOJ;\loii\I?RIOR · Stomng TATSUVA NAIWlAl ·TSUTOMU Y!WAYV<i 
Co-storr•ng I<ENICHI HAGIWARA Executrve ProducefS AKIRA KUf?OSAWA · TQMO(UKt TANAKA D•rected bv.A«IRA KUROSIWA. 'lttdten bv AKII'?A KUROSAVIA · MASAJO tOE MuSIC by SHINICHIRO IKE&~: 
shows: 1:00~8:00·8:00. 

seniority system as last year. They will be held on April 29, 30, and 31. 
Students planning to request a dorm change must have permission from the rectors of the respective halls. This policy, however, does not include any transfer requests to Pasquerilla East and West, and a separate procedure will be an­nounced at a later date. 
.Flu 
continuedfrom page 3 
"They really seemed overworked." 

Others treated at the center were upset over the inadequate allocation of medicine. One of the ill students questioned the reasons for the short supply of the drug normally used to fight this strain ofinfluenza. 
Thompson noted that almost 12,000 capsules of the drug Sym­metrel had been used in recent weeks. "Because of the inordinate demand for the drug, we have at times run out," he said. "It has rarely been for more than a night, however." 
Thompson explained that the in­firmary has been using the drug in a preventive capacity, although it is normally used as a relief of symptoms. "We're just trying it out," he remarked. "We're not quite sure of its effectiveness as a preventive drug." 
"A TRIUMPH ..." 
-Kevin Thomas. 
LOS ANGELES TIMES 



"Musicke ofSundrie Kinds," a distinguished ensemble that plays pieces of the Baroque through classical eras, will be presented by the University Artist Series on Wed., Feb. 4 at 8 p.m. In the auditoruim ofthe Snite Museum ofArt. 
• • .Ballroom 
continuedfrom page5 

and the installation ofthe sound and lighting systems, along with the opening ofthe game room. 
The second phase will be giving the Ballroom a new coat of paint, and the third will be building a kitchen. "But I think we can combine Two and Three into one 
SaintMary,s opens new exhibits 
Two new art exhibits opened this week in the galleries at Saint Mary's College. Photographs by Carl Toth will be on display in Hammes Gallery, and recent work in por­celain and stoneware by Ron Kovatch will be shown in Moreau Gallery. Both exhibits will be on dis­play through Feb. 20. An artists' reception will be held today from 7 to 9 p.m. and is open to the public. 
phase," commented Don Murday, advocate of increased space for so­cial activities. 
Th" final stage would be the build­ing ofthe private booths around the walls of the ballroom. Coppola in­tends to "build a clientele now with Phase One and create a finished product by next year." He admits that exactly when all ofthis will hap· pen depends greatly on the manager and student response to the in· novative plan. 
Plans for the renovation are the vi· sion of a handful of movers here at Notre Dame: Coppola, Murday, and Fr. Mario Pedi, rector ofSt. Ed's and assistant SU director. 
The first step in realizing their plan is choosinga person suitable for manager. Coppola and Andy Panelli intend to review applications and find a manager capable of running the operation. Applications will be available "sometime next week" according to Coppola The manager will be responsible for all aspects of the nightclub and will decide the final atmosphere ofit. 
Coppola wants the manager to book live bands for Friday and Satur­day nights, organize the stage crew and the stage productions, supervise 
SUNDAY MASSES AT SACRED HEART 
8:15 pm Saturday Rev. Robert Griffin, c.s.c. 
9:00 am Sunday Rev. Beils Rasmussen, O.P. 
10:30 am Sunday Rev. Patrick Gaffney, c.s.c. 
12:18 pm Sunday Rev. Austin Fleming 
'l:lS pm Vespers Rev. Patrick Gaffney, c.s.c. 

campus 

L_____________ 
miniStry 


the kitchen, handle the books, hire help -all the things that the manager of a nightclub would have to do -and be an integntl part in the planning ofthe renovation. 
"We are going to try for a nightclub atmosphere, a 'social hangout' as Don put it," said Cop­pola. "Right now, thought, it is only a plan...a dream...a vision." 
...Unity 
continuedfrom page 1 
This recommendatio111 led the entire committee to suggest within its general statement that interac­tion between residents in traditional ways could be enhanced by locating business, commercial, and recrea­tional centers in convenient areas. 
The final working committee dis­cussed methods of publicizing Jerusalem as a "Uving Pattern of Coexistence," which Zvi Brosh, a special assistant to Mayor Kollek, said could be achieved by remembering to emphasize the positive aspects of jlerusalem's development. 
After the conclusion of the con­ference, Mayor Kollek told reporters that the committee's resolutions were important and that his city government had a "good record" of carrying them out. 
KoUek, apparently pkased with the results of the confero~nce, sum­marized it by comparing it to a recent Arab conference in Saudi Arabia which advocated! force to "free" Jerusalem. The mayor stated, "This is the difference, Mecca decla­ration, Notre Dame declara­tion...one makes war, the other peace." 

continuedfrom page 4 
The Moslem clerics, or mullal1s, antagonize government tt:chnocrats by interfering in all asp(:cts of na­tional life. As part of their "cultural revolution," the mullahs have shut down much of Iran's university sys­tem. Moreover, massive unemploy­ment and general economic paralysis are making the Rajai·clergy leadership increasingly unpopular, tbc Iran specialists say. 



Friday,January 30, 1981 -page 7
. 
' 



Features 

I Never Told You To Hate Your Father 
H
e hated his father, he said. He never remembered seeing his father; now his father had written, saying he wanted to meet him. "I couldn't stand to see him," he sald. "I've always hated him, and e never cared about me. Igrew up, wanting to have a father like othher kids, but there was just my sister and my mother and me. I hated my father because he never came home. He never, from te day I was born, bothered to see what I looked like." 
I listened to him, feeling sorry for a man I had never 
met. I thought: "Maybe the fther hates himselffor being 
a stranger to his owwn family." 
"When you're a kid," he said, "growing up with just women in the house, you look for a father· figure; some 
Rev. Robert Griffin 
' 
Letters To A I..onely God 
oldergLy who will tell you things, and show you things, and take you places here women dn't go. Sometimes you go crazy when your friend's father pushes you away, because his own kids are jealous, or because his wife says he hasn't got the time; or because he's afraid it's going to cost him money. Once, when I was in the seventh grade, there was this teacher, and he helped me with my lines in a class play. I was really good in the play because ofhis help; and afterwards, when I thanked him for being my friend and helping me, I started to hug him. He shoved me away, and told me not to do that, not to ug him, because it was silly. 'I was glad to help you,' he said, 'but men don't hug each other unless they're close family.' He didn't even know I was a..~king him to be close family." 
"Rick," I said, "there were times in loving my own father, I just prayed for the pain to go away. 1would have been happy if we could have spokr:n without quarelllng." I was never too successful as a son. The energies that could have been used for hugs were wasted in anger. 
"Do you blame me," he said, "for not anting to sec some perfect stranger ho walked out on my mother the week I was born, leaving her with two infat children he never bothered with, when there as a possible chance he might have to give us somethingfrom his own selfish life?" 
''I'm not really the person to ask,'' I said. "How would your mother feel?" 
"She always says: 'You have to work things out for yourself. I can't tell you how you should feel about your father. I've never told you to hate him, and I never will. Just don't tell me too much about what you are doing."' 
"I wouldn't watto encourage you to hurt your moth· her,'' I said. 
"I grew up, hating the man who spoiled a good part of her life,'' he said. "Now he wants me to invite him here so that we can get acquaintc. I tell her I don't want to ' sec him, because it would make me sick, and shesays: 'I never told you to hate your father.' " 
"I suppose,'' I said, "that you would rather have her tell you to shoot him on sight?" 
"I really think my father Is a selfish sonofabitch,'' he said. "The only kindness he can do my family Is to leave us alone. I don't need my mother to tell me whether that's right or wrong. I hate him for all my own reasons, though one of the reasons Is what he did to her." 
"You knoww," I said, "I'm not experienced as a parent, but as a teen·ager, I brought agreat sadness Into the life of my father." 
"At least," he said, "you had a faber you could hurt." 
"In hurting him," I said, "I thought I had lost him a..~ a 
father. I brought him to a point where I was afraid he 
would disown me." 
"He wouldn't have been much ofa father,'' he replied, "lfhe had disowned you." 
"He never did disown me,'' I said, "but I was afraid he 
would. All my life, he had regarded me as his brightest 
and most promisingchild. Ofhisseven children, fourof 
whom died very early, I was the youngest, and I knew 
that he considered me the 'Jearest ofthem ;;II. I disap­
pointed him bitterly, and I thought maybe he wished I 

had died early, before I could break his heart." "Were you a car thiefor a junkie?" he said, moving from A to Z in his sifting ofhuman evil.. 
"I lied to him," I said. "I deceived and disobeye.;J him, in matters offaith that he took very seriously. It w:..~ the way that hurt him the most, because it seemed like a betrayal." 
"But he eventualy forgave you?" he said. 
"He died before we could talk ofgorgiveness,'' 1said. "I was away from home, and he unexpectedly die·d, not even being sure if I cared for him as a father." 
"He was probably more hurt than angry,'' he sai.J.. 
"Even so, he could have left me with guilt feelin~;;., But the final ting he wished for, my mother told me, as for me to come home, so that we could be a family again. I told my mother I was afraid he hated me, and ~he said: "There is nothing you could ever do that would cut you off from you father's love." 
"That's what a father's love sud be like,'' he said. "That's the kind oflove I've never had." 
"That's the kind oflove you've never offered,'' I said. 
"Oh, I see,'' he said, "there's a lesson here for me. 
Children forgiving parents as parents forgive their 
children, and all that crap." 
"Children growing up without fathers find it neces­sary to Invent them," I said. "You've imagined a father deserving ofcontempt. You've denied him and identity worthy ofyour love. It would be healthier to become acquainted with the father who needs your forgiveness than to invent a ather whom you find it enjoyable to hate." 
"I used to pray for him to come home," he said. "Now 
Iwould pray for him to go to hell if I thought God would 
listen." 

"Do you really hate him so much," I said, "that you 
want to punish him like that?" 
"No," he said, "I don't ha.~ him that much. My mother 
always says: 'I never told you to hate him'. I never did 
hate him enough to want to hurt him." 
I never saw Rick after that night. He went offhating 
his father, and loving him also, I think, though he really 
didn't know it. After he graduated, he sent me a note 
saying that he had gone Into the Service and that he 
would get back to see me. He never mentioned a word 
about his father. 

Several years later, after Mass one Sunday, a middle­
aged man introduced himself. "I think you knew my son 
Rick," he said. 

I thought: "He doesn't look like a father deserving of 
hate." 

"I don't know if you've heard,'' he said, "that Rick was 
killed In an accident related to a training program for 
freeing our hostages in Iran." 
I expressed shock and disbelief. "There's no reason 
why you should have known," he said. "It was never 
mentioned in the papers." 
He went on: "It was a terrible shock to Rick's mother, 
and a bitter disappointment to me. I'm Navy too, and 1 
was supposed to visit Rick through my Fleet connec­
tions. He died just a week before I was scheduled to 
meet him in the Persian Gulf." 
"How sad," I said. I couldn't think of other words to 
say. 

"I don't know if he ever told you," he said, "but I 
never knew my son. My wife and I had divorced, and it 
seemed wiser to stay away. Later, when Rick ws older, 1 
tried to get in touch but he as too bitter then to want to 
see me." 

"He spoke to me ofyou," I said. 
"Finally, his bitterness melted, at least to the point 
where he was willing to write, I think, to his mother's in­
tervention," he said. "She never wanted the children to 
Inherit our grievances." 
"It was wtse of her to feel that way," I said. 
"There were lots of things I had to say to Rick," he 
sald, "that could only be said in person." 
"There were things he needed to hear," I said, "that 
he could only have heard from you." 
"There were things I needed to hear," he said, "that I 
could only have heard form him." 
"Well,'' I said, thinking of my father and the things I 
might have told him, "ifthere weren't a heaven, we'd 
have to invent one as a time and place for unfinished 
conversations." 

They were weak, even stupid words, but they 
expressed a hope that makes sad memories bearable. 

Kagemusha .· No lizards?I? 
M
ention japanese films and one Is likely to conjure up images of giant lizards eating cities and monsterous moths swooping In on ships, however there is another side to japanese films not famillar to most Americans. Like most countries Japan has a serious artistic film community led by a seventy year old master named Akira Kurosawa. "Kagemusha" is Kurosawa's first picture marketed on a mass level in­


ternationally. The film would not have even gotten close to our shores if it were'nt for the efforts oftwo Americans ofsome renown; George (Star Wars) Lucas, and Francis (Godfather) Ford Coppola, who ex­hibiting a creative eccentricism only hit pictures can bring brought it here. 
The fllm's title translates very aptly to "double" in English. The opening scene has a warlord named Shingen meeting face to face an 

exactdouble ofhimself. The double was saved from execution for pet­
ty theivery by an aid to the lord. Lord Shingen is leader ofa powerful, 
never defeated clan. As usual with beingat the top, all sorts ofbuggers 
are out to dethrone you. Sixteenth century Japan was a land of many 
warring kingdoms and Shingen has his share ofenemies. During one 
war, Shingen is mortally wounded, right before death he wills that his 
death be kept a secret for three years. His aids thus set out on the treac­
herous path oftaking a former hood and pawning him off on a 
kingdom as it's ruler. All goes well until the former hood gets nostalgic 
and breaks into a jar looking for loot and finds the lords body. This freaks him, and he informs the aids that he quits. However, he ha..'i a religous experience changes his mind and vows to take on the role. The next two hours (the film lasts three hours), has him dealing with warring neighbors, playful grandsons, even playfuller concubines, a jealous pseudo son, and a whole bevy ofother plot filling adversities. The doubles charmed life comes to an abrupt end at the hands-er 
hooves ofa horse. He's found out. As the aids stand about about 
mourningthe failure oftheir deception, one ofthem says with painful 
candidness: "He could deceive men, but not a horse." The hapless 
double is literally booted out ofthe ca..'itle. The lords Illegitimate son 
takes command ofthe clan and promptly destroys it wildly atta<:king a well defended enemy. 
The acting is all first rate, since none of the actors are familiar to American audiences, I won't name them. The subtitles are the finest I've seen being consistently readable yet unobtrusive. After the first hour you almost forget they are there, subconsciensly your mind im­aginees the squable emitting from the actors mouths to be English. The location shooting shows offJapan's exotic beauty well, however Kurosawa does'nt use enough panoramic shots, leaving the viewer with a craving to see "everything". Contrary to American films, there is little cutting from camera to camera, instead one angle is used for scenes lasting up to fifteen minutes. Each scene is loaded with visual 
imagery making the longshots necessary to take it all in. Ofspecial in· 
terest are a band ofspies whoes antics exhibited in the course of 
spying are quite amusing. 
Perhaps the greatest fascination the film will have for American 
audiences is it's meticulous examination ofa culture that could'nt bt• 
more alien if it were on another planet. The costumes are spectacular 
and accurate. The battle scenes are awesome, although the blood is 
perhaps to plentiful and In color slightly florescent. This however is a 
minor quibble. 
"Kagemusha" is both humorous and moving. It takes a tragi-comil' 
look at a man trapped in world he couldn't control, it follows the 
demise ofan empire, and it shows what life was like at a different place 
duringa different time. The movie is epic in every senst• ofthe word. It 
gives us a new perspective ofacountry we thought subsisted on God· 
zilla. Perhaps the fact that all America eversaw of)apanese films in the 
past consisted oflarge critters reflects on our taste as opposed to 
theirs. 
The film is playing at the University Park Cinema, that theatrical 
abomination mentioned in this space last week. As ifthe place were'nt 
bad enough, they've now cleverly added commercials to each movie 
showing;an unspeakable crime. Don't let this location stop you from 
seeing this fine movie. 
Santa Fe Rocks ·Tonight 
Wnters note: Each wed's rev1ew 1s accompanied by a Pat Byrnes illustration that corresponds to thJ!:,m 's overall qualtty. 

They have made several TV appearances and performed
S
anta Fe, a jazz·rock touring band, will perform last summer for the U.S. Olympic Athletes at the Nation­
tonight at 8 p.m. in the N.D. library auditorium. The al Sports Festival. 

group performs songs by Supertramp, Seawlnd, Billy Tickets are S3 advance, S3.50 at the door, and are 
;m:;~~~~t
Joel, and Chicago, as well as original ones. 

available at the Student Union Ticket Office and RiverThe eight-member band Is new to the Midwest. Now City Records. The concert is presented by the KnightsIndianapolis-based, they toured Michigan and Wiscon­
To b~ avoid~d A r~al snooz~r As ~xciring Worth s~~ing, Nor 10 be
ofColumbus and Campus Crusade for Christ. For moresin universities last semester. The group worked top 
at all costs as knining a solid ~fforr miss~d. a claaaic
information contact Steve Pogue at 277-8115. 
hotels last summer in Myrtle Beach, South Carolina. 



Editorials 
Friday, January 30, 1981 -page 8 

Alumni and students: 'What can improve LaFortune?' 
One afternoon last October the scaled down his plan· to include campus. During the day the cof-ter. Consequently, this room solving this dilemma. We need. to students once again voiced a only the essentials -lighting, feehouse would provide the would become the social center show that we are not the al­
strong plea to the student ac-sound, and the stage. The univer-haven desired by the students during the evening. 
coholics they picture us to be, but 

tiVIties subcommittee of the sity offered to put up a partial who want to ease/vent the The administration agreed to Board of Trustees that something amount of the needed budget to academic pressures caused by the the proposal -but with the 
students who drink because we must be done to help a stagnant start renovaton and operation and school. A small kitchen (coffee< stipulation that it will be built in 
have nothing else to do. Give us a social life on campus. The argu-asked the students to be respon-house) will offer different types of phases. Not unexpectedly the ad-
relaxed spot where the atmos­ment was reinforced when the sible for the remainder. At a sub-coffee and fruit drinks, in addi-ministration wants to make sure 
phere is laid back and conducive students held a reception that sequent Board of Commissioners tions to ,;nacks, such as potato thhe money is being spent on to healthy male/female relaton­

night for the Trustee members in meeting the students voted not to chips and pretzels. A game room something useful (not another ships, and we in return give those the Ballroom at LaFortune; the allot any money to the project. "-wl'l'Uld be. set up in one of the LaFortune renovation). 
positive relationships desired bydeficit'ncies of our existing center Emphasized at this meeting was adjoin~g rooms for those who Now it is our responsibility to this university. I might add that if were no longer just slides or our that this basic physical renova-want to play pinball or shoot pool. make this coffee house/nightclub these positive measures are not 

crazy notions -they were "for tion would not create the par-This c;tn be envisioned as a viable a success. Many times one hears successful, do not be surprised to 
real." As The Observer reported, ticular atmosphere essential for a stude~pci;t center during the "What can we do to change some-
see moe archaic approaches of­' the Trustees expressed their sin-successful nightclub (or as it has day. ging together those thing around here?" Now we 

fered similar to one found in the 

cerest concern, and offered their been subsequently labeled, who ·..vant to escape from school-have a chance to do just that. utn~ost support. It was the general "hangout.") The students did not rplated pressure, we can create a We can make the second floor 
December issue of Notre Dame consensus of the Trustees, Ad-want any precious funds spent on relaxed atmosphere similar to of LaFortune a small scale stu-

Magazine which called for

ministration, and students that another piecemeal solution whic~• that of an English Coffeehouse. dent center. When these positive prohibition of alcohol in theS'Ome sort of renovation to the would be inadequate for the ne~<.d. At night, the coffeehouse alternatives to the social problem 
dorms. "Forbidding alcohol inBallroom could be the first step in The students feared that this would ·transform into a much are successful, our argument for a the dorms will certainly not makesolving this problem. money would not be sp,.~nt wisely, needed social entertainment cen-new major university student cen­drinking impossible. but at least it

At this time the two previous and pointed that Q!llt to the Trus-ter on campus. During the wt ek, ter will be strengthened tremen­
wll decrease its availibility." Wellproposals to renovate LaFortune tees. We neR:d the aesthetic student acts would be presented dously. If the students show a 

for all of you who "want to 

were discussed. The first one, the touches to 'lnake this nightclub the on stage, and on weekends need for positive social outlets, change something around here,"New Chattaqua proposal, was ~~·for those who want to professional acts would provide the university can be convinced now is your opportunity.
developed by two Notre Dame )'getaway." One surely cannot entertainment. Once again, the that this student center will not be students John Amato and Pat/" believe just a stage will transform importance of the night club will the "white elephant" failure of Andrews during the 1979_:;.W1fo t~e dim, ?eserted Ballroom into a be its relaxed informal atmos-which they are fearfu. school year. This plan ¥ojected VIable mghtclub. The Trustees phere. Dim lights, private booths, So it is time for the students to the Ballroom a_s...)l!"professional realized the "band-aid" attempts and a dance floor, along with the show the administration that so-Don Murday is executive co­
ordinator of Notre Dame's stu­

mghtclub. ot only would it had been unsuccessful, and the game room and coffee shop. will cial outlets are needed on this 
dent government.

prov· ae polished entertainment problem had gone beyond the provide the proper aesthetic academically-oriented campus. ·-'-~Chicago Jazz), but also the aes-"patching up" phase. touch for this entertainment cen-We nt"Pd to take positive strides in 
thetictouches whichareessenti~ Since then we have developed ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ to the "hangout" atmosphere our concept of what the ballroom desired. But in May of 1980 the should be, and described it in proposal was rejected for two detail to a University architect. main reasons. The university dis-The second floor of LaFortune 
'What are you going to do?'
approved of the managers' would become a cof­salaries, and did not want to incur feehouse/nightclub combination. the liabilities of the club if it The coffeehouse would be in 

"What are you going to do next where I will take my place in life, wants to live worthily, necessari­
failed; both outlined in the operation during the day, while 

year?" Mrs. Johnson asked who I will become and in which ly wants to partake in the creation
proposal. The second proposal the night club would provide a 

sweetly. way I will live. For the first time in of a better world. A desire for was designed by Andrew Panelli, place for professional and student 
She had cornered me. Now she most of our lives, those of us justice and beauty stems from an 
owner of the defunct Vegetable entertainment acts. This place 

had me where she wanted me. leaving college have incredible appreciation of the world as it is.
Buddies. Panelli knew of the would be the essential "hangout" backed against the wall and choices to make-all alone." No Whitman writes of his apprecia­problem of the first proposal, and needed by the students on this 

hemmed in on all sides by man is an island" but a college tion in his "Salute Au Monde:" cocktail-wielding guests at the senior certainly feels like one. annual Sunday-after-Christmas Everyone wll conceptualize I see all the menials of 
Open House. There was no his/her array of choices in a dif­the earth, laboring, escape; Mrs. Johnson was ferent way. My personal concep­I see all the prisoners in waiting for an answer. My pulse tion of choices is this: I can the prisons, 
Doonesbury Garry Trudeau 
I£T'5 TALK FOr<.
IN TIM£, MR. f}{)l<f3, 


quickened and a pink flush came embrace life or withdraw from it. I see the defective human
liJOI\, I'M FIN&, 
A/AJH!l& F!F?ST,
ALL IN TIM£. YOU'Ve; 

over me. I squirmed, and replied: If I embrace life, I am drawn out bodies ofthe earth, 
!XJC. JlJ5T6/Vf!; 
OKAY?' Tl3U Mf.
OMY, me, 
8ffl/ 7Jif({)l/6H 

''/' m going to bring light into the of myself into the pain and joy of The Blind, the deaf and
M/3MYPANT5
WHf.N [)(}! 
A/..17Tt£A80UT
Q{)/TE AN ORIJfAL .. 

darkness ofthe world.'' the world; if I withdraw from life, dumb, idiots, hunchbacks,
GHOIJTOF 
I 

Mrs. Johnson choked a little on unable to tolerate it any longer, I lunatics, her drink. am drawn into myself and my own The pirates, thieves, concerns. It occurs to me that to betrayers, murderers, 
Perhaps you have found your-embrace life and grow outward is slave-makers ofthe earth, self in the same situation as me if the only authentic way to live. The helpless infants, and you are a senior. If you are an un-The suffering and injustice of the the helpless old men and derclassman (or woman) you world are happening in real life to women... shuld prepare yourself for the real people: to avert my face and I see ranks, colors, bar­ponderous question of your guard my sensibilities from the boris ms, civilizations, future, for it will be posed to you onslaught of life is to avoid the I go among them and mix throughout senior year, with a truth of what life is and my indiscriminately, frequency-rate peaking over responsibility for it. And I salute all the in­Christmas break and around I feel that the worthiest way to habitants ofthe earth. graduation. The questions live is to involve myself in the become more pointed if your col-world in an attempt to make it bet-Questions of the future still lege years have been tinged with ter, to relieve suffering and create remain, abundantly in fact. But I idealism, if you have dared to happiness. Some people call this will not let those questions dream innocent dreams of a better (often deprecatingly) "working frighten me. Rather, I will dare to world and your part in building it. for justice." But wanting a more be excited. Give me "the stuff of My advice is two-fold: I) conjure just world is merely the logicai life." This is what I want. No con­up a snappy reply that wll appease consequence ofloving people and ventional road for me. 
the questioning masses; 2) give respecting life. I do not believe the question a great deal of that some people are "called" to serious thought. work for a better wworld and that If I take seriously the question others are "called" to make a lot 
Peggy Osterberger is a senior

of my future, I may realize that it of money (I do not mean to ind-encompasses much more than icate that the two are mutually ex-government major at Notre where I will live or what job I will elusive). Rather, anyone who 
Dame and education officer in CILA.

have. The queston encompasses embraces life in all its aspects and 
L.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
=======~~======= u~~-~~~~~~~~e~~~~~~~~H~w 
Box Q. Notre Dame, IN 46556 Managing Edttor..........................................Mark Rusr Features Edttor.......................................Molly Woulfe 
The Obserur is an independenr newspaper published by the students of the Editorials Editor..............................Michael Onufrak Photo Editor ...............................................John Macor University of Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessanly Senior Copy Edttor .....................Mary Frm Callahm reflect the policies of the administratiOn of enher Insmutton. The news 1s reported Executive News Editor.........................TomJackman Busines$ Manager ..................................Greg Hedge~ a5> accurately and as objectively as poss1ble. Ednonals represenr the optniOn of a News Editor...............................................Pam·Degnm Controller........................................................]im Rudd majority of the Editorial Board. Commentanes, optmons, and letters are the vtews NewsEditor ............................................... Lynne Daley Advertising Manager...................................Mark Ellis of thetr authors. Column space IS available to all members of the communHy, and SMC Executive Editor.......................... Margie Brassil Circulation Manager............................ Berh Hackert the free expression of varytng opinions on campus, through letters. IS encouraged. SMC News Editor......................................Mary Leavitr Production Manager...........................]ohn McGrath 

~·­

~--------------------~-------------------------------------------­
__,_

,-----------------­

The Observer 
Irish masochism: an update 
Dear Editor, 
The eternal obsessive compul­sion to use the adjective "Irish" for everything from non-Celtic (all-non-Celtic) basketball teams to flophouse bars and beers in this area shows itself hollow when­ever there is any IRISH news to be had. 
The recent attentat in Belfast, the attempted assasination of Bernadette Devlin and company received not more attention around NO than in non-"Irish" 
quarters-but less. Entire news periods on the campus radio manage to avoid any report. 
Telephone calls to the station have drawn mystifying blanks (though respectful attempts arc made to run down and read over the phone the not-so-mysteriou~ ne_w$), 

· (Are there only 52 hostages in the world? An entire nation may be held hostage.) 
One need not in any way sup­port the strategy (deviant Mar­xist) or the tactics (sentimentally pro-IRA, apparently) of B. Dev­lin, to acknowledge that she is part of the bloodstream of Irish consciousness (consciousness does have a bloodstream). 
An attempt on her life is an outrage of universal proportions. It is a desecration of the con­scicncc. Concern for her life and its meaning from the Irish is the duty of any related community, especially of a Catholic com-munity-even if it is not "Irish." 
And even more so since she has devoted her life to the existence and heritage of Ireland, whatever her personal heterodoxy. For, whatever the politics of it, the bul­lets fired were anti-Catholic they 
were meant for her as a 
"Catholic," whether she is one altogether, or not. It is callous to ignore the news of the violence donc her and hers -and the 
entire Roman Catholic world 
community. 
Dear Editor (for a second time), 
The above letter, nota bene • was hand-delivered to the The Observer on Jan. 18. Due to the exigencies of campus journalism,· the letter was not printed at the pertinent time. 
Events in Ireland are endlessly 
ironil:, requiring endless new irony of stance. A mockery was made· M the. pwtest in the letter above. by what happened a few days after the date of writing and before the letter could be 
Friday, January 30,1981 page9 

P.O. Box Q 
security 
Dear Editor. 
Last week there were two inci­dents involving a female Notre Dame student being assaulted while walking home in the vicinity of the tennis courts behind the ACC. One of these resulted in a rape. 
Dean of Students James Roemer sent a letter to all stu­dents in the Campus View Apart­ment complex relating these events to them and cautioning female students to avoid walking home alone. 
I am a female Notre Dame stu­
dent and I live in the Campus 
View apartments. I have a car, 
but occasionally, if weather per­
mits, I will walk or take my 
bicycle. 
Last Wednesday I was walking home at approximately II :45 a.m. I couldn't help but feel a bit nerv­

Dr. King's birthday: Jan. 15th 
ous about being alone, even in the 
daylight. As I was going past the 
tennis courts, a brown compact
Dear Editor: 

Perhaps the articles on off­tinned in The Observer, a 
car with Indiana plates drove past1 often wonder about the 

campus crime are what the stu­newspaper that does not fail to in­
me and stopped near the backgoverning policies that are used to 

dents want to read about and not form us about the infamous: "The 
entrance of the ACC. I didn'tdecide what articles are printed in 

articles on a man that sacrificed students... said they were leaving 
notice anything extraordinary
The Observer. I am extremely 

his life for a belief. A belief that the parking lot when they were 
about the driver (a young whitecurious to know why the student 

one person should not oppress approached by a black man." 
male, 25-' ·~ years of age) I con­
newspaper, The Observer, failed 

another because of differences in (8/27/80, pg. I), "The students 
tinued on my way, but pausedto acknowledge the birthday of 

race, religion, education, one male and one female were ac­
when the man opened his car doorDr. Martin Luther King Jr. in any 

economics or other status­costed by two black men, one 
and shouted in my direction, Hey­
of The Observer's editions. 

measuring devices. carrying a revolver near the 
-----." I couldn't understand whatDr. King's birthday obviously 

I sincerely hope that the editors Logan School." (11/16/79, pg. I), 
he'd said. At first I thought he wasdid not warrant a report on the dif­

ofThe Observer will acknowledge and most recently, "The student 
asking me for directions some­ficulties that many civil rights 

the newspaper's omission of an was walking home...confronted 
where, as people often do. Then Igroups are struggling against in 

article on Dr. King's birthday and by a black man... He dragged her 
realized that he was doing some­their fight have Dr. King's

10 try to expand their sources of in­into a nearby wooded area at pis­
thing extremely obscene. For abirthday made into a national 

formation past the comforting tolpoint and then raped her." 
minute I froze, then impulsively Iholiday. Dr. King's birthday did glow of the dome and out into the (1/l9/8l, pg. 1). 

began to run in the direction of mynot even warrant a single line on 

changing world. Perhaps The Observer is not 
home. I didn't want to turn
the back pages ofThe Observer in 

able to stress some of the positive a·round.
small type. 1 would think that 

Homer J. Gooden attributes and accomplishments 
I used to feel quite safe walking
something could have been found 

President, BCAC of black people, because the cur­
or riding around the Campus
for print even ifThe Observer had 

riculum here ignores the Black View area, even at night. Off­
to rely on the wire services for in-Dear Editor. 
Experience. I have talked to campus crime, I thought, was formation. Various cities, includ-Last Thursday was one of the many students here who never generally restricted to rohberiesing South Bend, acknowledged first days of class, and it would encountered blacks before Notre and muggings in the Northeastthe birthday by school closings have been appropriate to start off Dame, and who have only a neighborhood. But what hap­and special community services. the semester by taking time to ob-stereotypical conception of who pened to me and those other two
D'd h d' · I fff h serve Dr. Martin Luther King's 
Blacks in America are. One such girls last week, occurred in broad
b' hid t e et. IDtonaK_sta? Worget the Bl'rthday. Dr. Kl'ng taught us
1rt ay o r. 1ng. ere 1 e stereotype is often expressed in daylight. These incidents were
staff members not aware that many things we can never learn in The Observer -black man-as­
not related, but they certainly will

community groups and con-the classroom: how to live with criminal. I feel that it is the duty of 
make OC students take a morecerned citizens went to our fellow human beings, how to the university as an educator to serious view of the situation.

Washington, D.C. to protest the bring about social change through dispel these misconceptions, and My point is simply this: Forlackadaisical attitudes and ac-peaceful means, that love is still one way of achieving this would anyone who lives off-campus,
tions shown by Congress? Did the stronger than fear and hate. Al-be by exposingg the community avoid walking alone. even during
editors not realize that this Uni-most nothing was done here to to people such as Dr. King, a the day. Get a security escort, or versity is dedicated not only to recognize or to celebrate this Black man who, like Thoreau and 
find a ride with a friend. And toprovide the stimulu.s for a quality man. 

Gandhi, decided to put into anyone who has a car; please stop
education but that the University, I feel that it is essential that one practice the ideals and teachings 
and offer rides to any students a Catholic institution, should by question the fact that this Chris-of Jesus Christ, the Lord and you see walking alone. Apparent­nature provide the stimulus tian university, which stands for Saviour we all claim to worship. 

ly our home isn't as safe as we needed to fight injustices and all the ideals of the late Dr. King, once believed. 

crimes against the civil rights of could let this day pass un-
James Derico 

all peoples. recognized. It was not even men-
Name Withheld 

published. The historic Tynan L~-~~~~~~~--~~~~~~~~~~~--~~~~~~~~~~~-~~~-~~ 
Abbey castle in County Armagh was firebomb-gutted and its in­habitants gunned down on their lawn. 
Tynan Abbey was part of the 

'N.D. Shuffle ' a song and dance Irish heritage. Its loss is a loss in the Irish inheritance. Its clmina­tion does not make a single poor Dear Editor, change. And really. these things proud and classy school. 
buildings or the amount of Irishman richer. It makes every The time has come for someone we could accept as a part of uni­The present administration, 
publicity it receives, but hy much Irishman and woman poorer. It to stand up and be heard from. I versity life if it wasn't for the unlike its founders, can hardly be 
more important standarJs. A does not cancel the score as feel something must he said flagrant hypocrisy mentioned said to be genuinely concerned 
school's greatness is in its people;regards Bernadette Devlin. It concerning the famous "NO above. The hollow sincerity of the with the hopes and needs of its 
their character. and their spirit,does not relieve a single bullet­Shuffle." You know it, it's what administration's concern for the comuunity. It appears as if all that 
zest, and enthusiasm for life_ I wound. the aministration does all the students is disgusting and out­matters to our administration is 
feel there arc great people here at The meanness of spirit ex­time, projecting one image while rageous. Let us consider a few ex­that the bank balance is up and the 
NO, just as great as the legends of emplified by burning a Big House acting in a totally dfferent man­amples: the infamous new 
the past, and all they need is a simply because it is big, or be­ncr. To an outsider, NO stands constitution which we voted 10, television coverage is plentiful. I chance to develop this greatness. cause Some One Else, i.e., the for integrity, honesty. fairness, but which the administration 
think the administration should I fear, though, that if the ad­Anglo-Irish, built it, and the bom­and all those things your mother quickly gassed; the security force take a look at its people, profes­
ministration does not rid itself of 

bers themselves do not have Big told you ~hould be when you were which seems more concerned sors and students alike, and 
its misconceptions of greatness

Houses, is a form of sado­a child. with ripping off property from realize just what fine people are the Golden Dome may become
Well we, as insiders. know the

masochism. Or, even more cars then protecting the students; working and studying here. 
nothing more than a second-rate 

precisely. necrophilia. It is the real story. The horrible food, the and finally the punching out of 
institution living off the heroes of oposite side of the same worthless lack of respect for our intel­·students in the green field by We came here with visions of 
its past. 

coin which passes for politics in ligence, and the administration's ALUMNI which the school grandeur and were met with in­the land of what's left of lrishry. overall managerial ineptness are qui~kly brushed under the carpet. eptness an inconsideration. A thmgs we have all come to accept Yes sir, times have changed the school's greatness is not 
Name withheld on request

Anthony Kerrigan as things which may never character of this once fiercely measured by the number of its 
1 
~ 


----~ -~---~--~ ­

The Observer 
Friday,January 30, 1981 -page 10

Weekend 
Campus 
frtday,Jan. 30, 1981 
•5:15 
p.m. -mass and supper, bulla shed. 

•6:30, 
10 p.m. -film, "dr. zhivago" carroll hall smc. 

•1 
p.m. -track meet, nd. vs Ioyola, bradley, valparaiso and 

u. 
of illinois chicago circle, ace. 

•7-9 
p.m. -opening recep­tion, carl toth-photography, hammes gallery. 

•7-9 
p.m. -opening recep­tion, ron kovatch-recent work in porcelain and stoneware, moreau gallery. 

•7:30-1 
0 p.m. -cila education workshop, "justice in the 80s: doubts and directions," panel discussion with profs. e.a. goer­ner, ken jameson, peter alsh and kathleen m. osberger, hayes­healy aud. 

•7,10:15, 
12 p.m.-film, "my­bodyguard," engr. aud., Sl. 

•s 
p.m. -keenan review, o'laughlin aud. 

•s 
p.m. -concert, santa fe, library aud, advance tickets $3, at the door S3.50, sponsor: campus crusade for christ and the knights ofcolumbus. 


Saturday,Jan. 31, 1981 
•9:30 
a.m.-noon -cila educa­tion workshop, "justice in the 80s: doubts and directions", reflections by students and alumni working for social change, mem. library lounge. 

•4 
p.m. -basketball, nd women vs. south carolina, ace. 

•6:30, 
10 p.m. -film, "dr. zhivago" carroll hall smc. 

•7, 
10:15, 12 p.m. -film, "my bodyguard", engr. aud., Sl. 

•s 
p.m. -keenan review, o'laughlin aud. 

•s 
p.m. -basketball, nd men vs. south carolina, ace, metro tv. 

•s 
p.m. -recital, jeff noonan, guest artist, guitar, little theatre. 


juniors to sign forpictures 
All juniors wishing to place a senior picture in the 1982Dome are encouraged to sign up for sittings in both the North and South Dining Halls Feb. 2 through Feb. 5. Sign-up tables will be run during the dinner hours ofthe dining halls. 
Sitting dates are scheduled for Feb. 16 through Feb. 20. Sittings are S 1. A S 1 0 charge will be assessed on sittings held next fall. Juniors are urged to save money, beat the rush, and allow time for re-sits by signing 
up now. 

.. . 
.. 
·a =0
;; ~ 
~ e :> 'i " :a !; <"' < lC u
"' 
" 
.. u "" 
lC 
Molarity 


Peanuts 
Charles Schulz 
!F I WERE ACAMEL, SWEETIE, I'D TAKE '{OU ­OUT IN THE DESERT, ANI/ LEAVE YOU THERE! 

I JUST FOUND OUT IT HAS SOMETHING WHY CAMELS CAN 60 TO DO WITH TI-IEIR 50 LONG WITI-tOUT WATER BIG NOSES 
The Daily Crossword 

Michael Molinelli 
IF THAT'S TRUE, I KNOW SOMEOi~E WHO SHOULDN'T NEEC' ADRINK FOR TEN VEARS! 
ACROSS 23 Singing 1 Lunkhead brothers 4 Part of 24 In addition 
E.A.P. 27 Loved 
9 Trespass on 29 Determined private towlnat property any cost 
14 Riverin 32 Monster England 33 Deface 15 Cloud, 34 Nuts! in France 38 Meadow 16 Landof 39 Tells Dravidians 42 Arena cheer 17 Anything 43 Alluvial highflown deposit 18 Take 45 Largetub revenge 46 Greatjoy 
20 Remaining 47 Vengeful out of Biblical sight words 
22 Lipstick 51 Of a foot color bone 
Yesterday's Puzzle Solved: 

1/30/81
©198.1 by Chicago Tribune-N.Y. News Synd. Inc. All Riohts Reserved 

1/30/81 
53 Verve 54 Space filler 55 Fishing 
pole 57 Intended 61 Deserved 
retribution 65 Honey maker 66 Watchful 67 Monastery 
man 68-Marie 
Saint 69 Della 70 Thin cries 71 Grouse 
courtship area 
DOWN 1 Flow slowly 2 Wheel 
holder 3 Anjou 4 Overwhelm 5 Owing 6 Gangster's 
gun 
7 Ripening 
device 8 Expose 9 Attach 
10 Progressing 11 Stop on­12 Quoted 13 Sounds of 
laughter 19 Taro root 
21 Calendar 
item 25 Several 26 Verbal 28 Apologetic 
sound 29 Molding 30 Russlan 
river 31 Cry of 
approval 32 Second·hand 35 Consecrated 36 Nautical 
term 37 Tiny 39 Beams 40 Allowance 
for waste 41 Latin abbr. 44 Certain 
prisoners 46 Chromosome 48 Wyatt­49 Sagging 50 Stool 
pigeons 51 Gunwale pin 52 Actress 
Anouk 54 Wound mark 56 Venture 58 Edenname 59 Glacial 
snow 60 Shlpwood 62 Indian 63 Nothing 64 Steal, 
slangily 


.. ..
.. u "tl ; .!l ... .. 
... .,. ,. Q c ; E ri -E 'E 'o .c
-a. 0 u t• c " z 1;1 jj: a ill "Q" IOl
a 5 " "'5 .c .!(.... 0:: ; ~ ~ "'., X. ~ ll ~ ~ ~ t ~ 0 i .:1 ~ 1 j;l ~ 
., 0 ~ 
"' u e ~ u u )! ~ ~ 
u

~ 
)! " 
,eo 

./ "' 
0

-a 
:X: 1:X: 
.. 100 percent ... 80 percent .... 60 percent .... 40 percent . : . . 20 percent ..... 0 percent 
~ 
N 


. 
I 
f 


~-------~-----~--------~~-­
The Observer Friday,January 30, 1981 -page 11 
King plays consistently 
By MARK HANNUKSELA numbers so far this year. lege in Pennsylvania, so I was always around the game."
.\jJOrts Wrtter Heading into tonight's 6 p.m. con­"The funny thing is though," she
test with Pikeville College of Ken­continues, "I didn't plan on playingMaureen King laughs when told tucky, King leads the team in 
here. I wasn't going to try out for the
her coach had called her one of the rebounding and steals, Is second on­team last year, but when the time
most consistent player:. on this ly to sophomore classmate Anne 
rolled around for try-outs, I couldn't
year's Saint Mary's College basket­Armstrong in scoring, and is among hall team. the leaders in field goal percentage, 
just sit around and watch them play. shooting just over 'iO/ from the I had to do something, so I gave It a
"I don't know about that." she says. "I haven't really looked at it 
floor. try." that way. I would say I've bcl·n con­In Wednesday night's loss to 
If Maureen King has any flaws, they are an overwhelming sense of
sistent to a point, hut then· arc still Notre Dame, King scored only six modesty, almost to the point of
somc nights when I play better than points, but pulled down a personal I dt on others." high I4 rebounds. It was largely be­
overlooking her own talents, and a tendency to be especially critical of
While not playing as nmsistcntly cause of this dominance of the 

herself. Jerry Dallessio thinks this
as she'd like, King is still filling a very boards, and her effectiveness in criticism Is the only thing getting In
important role as a member of third­clogging up the middle that the yt•ar coach Jerry Dallcssio's Belle Belles were able to stay close to the the way of that perfect game King keeps looking for.
ba~kctball squad. Irish for the first 25 to 30 minutes of "Maureen has improved a great
"I guess thl· best way to put it is the contest. 

deal since last year, but she tends to
she's the force inside," says Dallcssio "There is a noticable difference in 
be really critical of herself. She's al­
of King. "That ml·ans rebounding, our team when Maureen isn't in 
ways trying to analyse her game, and
and scoring when we get her the there," says Dallessio. "She's really correct her mistakes, which is good, 
ball. Sec, thl· thing about Maureen is one of the keys to our winning and but she doesn't look at all the good
she can play a great game and not playing well. The thing that gave us things she does often enough. That's
score that much. She just docs so trouble Wednesday night was Notre many things well. For instance, .she Dame's excellent defense." 
what I try to do is point out the good thing<!."
probably moves without the ball King's basketball career began better than most inside players." back in the seventh grade. From day 
Dallessio went on to say that, "The 
Kelly Trlpucka, seen here as be goes up for another basket, Is now 
Maureen King is currently in her one, she was a natural, for two thing Maureen really needs to work 
."txth on the Irish all-time scoring list. 
second year as a member of reasons: her height and her family on is getting her confidence up to Dallessio's squad. As a freshman, she background. the level of her talent. What I mean played extensively at the center­"I guess you could say I grew up in is, her talent level is up here, I RIVER CITY RECORDS 1
--------------------------,
forward positions, but lost a lot of a basketball-oriented family," she (placing one hand above his head) 
I Northern Indiana's Largest Selection of Albums & Topes. I
says, while being mobbed by a and her confidence level is downplaying time because she was prone 
I

to fiJUI trouble. This year, according couple offans In the Holy Cross Hall here (placing the other hand at 1 Why pay more any place else? stomach level). When her con-
to her coach, that is not happening lounge. I have two brothers who I $ any regular record or tape with ad. I 
as often. played basketball in high school, and I 1.00 OFF! Limit 1 per person 1
See KING, page 12
"Maureen ha~ really matured as a my dad played at Westminster Col· 

I Expires Feb. 15 1981 1 
player," says Dallessio. "She's playing a lot smarter. Because she's I 50970 US 31 North eOpen till 10 every night I staying out offoul trouble, she's get­PINOCCHIO'S PIZZA PARLOR 13 miles North of Campus e ND/SMC checks cashed I ting a lot more playing time. I think 11next to Al's Supermarket up to $20 over I she's going to keep getting better -'I purchase amount I she hasn't really hit her peak yet." friday & saturday night special 277-4242 eRecord Crates available 


That peak is something King her­selfis stllllooking for, too. ' 
--------------------------· 
"I haven't really had that outstand­8-9pm $1.50 pitchering game yet," says the 5-9 native of Pittsburgh, Pa. "Some nights I score a lot, and some nights I rebound 9-12 pm $2.00 pitcher well, but I'm still waiting for that one 
with a purchase
night when I put everything toget­her. I'm not going to give up until 1 
of a large pizza ...
get it." "I'm not a perfectionist, though," she adds with a shy grin on her face. 
$1.00 MONDAY "I don't really like that word, be­cause It Implies being picky." 
LIMIT ONE PITCHER PER PIZZA 
Despite not being able to put emmona 
NIGHT

everything together, King has 
a AT SPECIAL PRICE-­
complleti some very Impressive 
NO COUPONS PLEASE 
LIVE BAND
Oregon State wins 16th straight 
VOCATION RETREAT 
CORVALLIS, Ore. (AP)-Center 

Steve Johnson scored 27 points and 
dominated play inside Thursday 
night to lead unbeaten Oregon State 
to an 81-67 Pacific 10 Conference 
basketball victory over lOth-ranked 
UCLA. 
The Heavers, tied with Virginia for 

the No. I ranking in The Associated 
Pl"'!ss poll, never trailed and hit just 
under 70 percent of their first-halt 
field goal tries. 
UCLA, 'i-3 in the conference and 

ll-4 overall, trailed by as many as 16 
points early in the second half but 
rallkd to pull within six, 57-'il, on 
Darren Daye's inside basket with 
9:44 remaining. 
Beaver reserve guard William Brew responded with a three-point play moments latcr and · CLA never got closer than seven after that. 
Oregon State, 16-0 overall and 8-0 In the Pac-1 0, made 16 of 23 ~elti goal attempts in the first~•.,.,_ ~"'\'-~:, 
ofthcm long-range bombs""'; w-...i"'~... Mark Radford and Ray Blume. -t·-r.<.-... Beavers led 41-31 at halftime. 
[p)QJJ~[p)(Q)~[E to help you consider the priesthood in the Congregation of Holy Cross .[Q)~f[E~ Friday, February 13 to Saturday, February 14 7:00p.m. 12:00p.m. 
[p)[L~~[EMoreau Seminary 
~~ccr.~~u~~U~(Q)~ by calling the Vocation Office ­no cost 6385 =======;.".:':'""-:-::-~~'··~.v~ ·.::~ .~,.w:~"-"'!:-===================== 
-----~-----'----------• 

The Observer 
Friday,January 30, 1981 -page 12 


Bobby Knight 
If the epitome of ethusiastic fans in the mid-1960's, the Green Bay Packers Backers, will forgive me, I must disagree with their leader, Vince Lombardi. Lombardi's authoritative discussions of professional football have 
TJ. Prister 

often been mentioned in the same breath as a biblical quotation. One of Lombardi's "scripture passages" went some­thing like this. "Winning isn't everything, it is the only 
rts 

thing." The death of the Packer mentor was tragic, yet do not fret Lombardiasts for that spirit, rather obses­sion, with winning is still carried on in the college ranks vulgarity was "it showed no bleeping class." today by one of the most famous coaches in college Knight has also been known to have very little regard basketball. for sports writers. He speaks of the profession ofsports 


His name is Bobby Knight, head coach of the Indiana writing as ifit were as despicable as prostitution. Face it Hoosiers. Bobby, writing about basketball is as much a legitimate He is indeed obsessed, more exactly, possessed with profession as coaching basketball. 
the idea ofwinning. Poor Bobby, someone forgot to tell Certainly many derrogatory statements have been him about sportsmanship, that it's not winning and made concerning Bobby Knight. However, just as many losing that counts but how you play the game. Someone complimentary remarks by sports writers have credit'ed forgot to tell him that other people's feelings matter. Knight with possessing a fine basketball mind. The Someone forgot to tell him, perhaps a grade school teac­media would he very ignorant about the world ofsports her or maybe a high school advisor, what exactly is the without the press. That world ofsports includes Bobby definition ofclass. Knight and the Indiana Hoosiers. Rather than chastise 
Undoubtedly, Bobby Knight has been one ofthe most the press, he should be thankful for its existence. s~ccessful college coaches already at the youthful age A couple of recent comments by Knight actually of 41. Included in his totals are a national champion­provoked the writing of this article. Other than the ship, and five Big Ten titles in nine years. He, in fact, had commissioner of the Big Ten, Knight would have to be more wins at age 40 than any other college coach. Suc­considered an unofficill/ spokesman of the conference, 
cessful in numbers, yes, but successful as a teacher of based on ifnothing else, his success. young men, an exemplary figure for his players, certain­But Bobby Knight, an upholder of the Big Ten ideal, lynot. 
haphazardly remarked that Big Ten basketball on the 

To begin to rehash stories about Knight is like an in­national level isn't very good. In fact, he said that the troduction to the world's longest novel -there seems Atlantic Coast Conference was much better than the to be no end. But for a starting point I'll use the Puerto Big Ten. It's amazing how an "inferior" conference can Rico incident. Is it coincidence that Bobby Knight, not place two teams, Iowa and Purdue, in the final four last any other coach in the nation, was involved in an al­year. tercation with the foreign law? He certainly wasn't the Finally, when the Hoosiers visited the Athletic and first coach to take a team out ofthe country. Convoction Center in early December, Knight accused 
Originally, Knight was offended by a few Puerto Digger Phelps as being the reason that the rivalry was Ricans' lack of respect for America, specifically, the temporally ended last year. Gathering as much class as American flag. But Knight, the true patriot that he is is possible for Bobby Knight, he said he wanted "to kick defended his country. Or had his prejudice influenced Digger in the butt" when he discontinued the yearly 
him -the same prejudice that caused him to make dec­clash. Nice way to put it Bobby, especially for all ofthe rogatory statements toward the black athlete? Michiana television audience to hear. Then there was his famous reprimand of the Indiana Bobby Knight wins and he does it legally with talent 
fans when they objected to an official's decision by that often isn't comparable to his opponents. For that 
chanting obscenities. Knight took it upon himself to I've got to give him a lot ofcredit, especially in this day 
snatch the microphone from an undoubtedly surprised an age ofcolleges constantly being put on probation for 
P.A. announcer and handed out a severe tongue-lashing. recruiting violations. Yet there's more to coaching than If I may borrow a quote from a recent edition ofSports winning and Knight doesn't care who or how he steps Illustrated, I<.::tight's classy comment on the student's on people in the process of that conquest. 

This Domer takes advantage ofthe unseasonal weather to get in some excercise. 
.King 
way l play, so l stay after practice a 
lot to work on different things. l al­fidence reaches the point of her ways want to do better. l guess I just talent, she is going to be a truly ex­won't stop till I get there." cellent player. I don't see any reason With all the work King puts into why she can't be a 20-point, I 5-her game, and that sense of quiet rebound performer every night. She determination that keeps driving 
is most definitely capable of doing her, one has plenty reason to believe that." that her outstanding game is not too 
Maureen King must also feel she's far in the future. It may not come capable of doing that, because she's tonight, and it may not c.:ome tomor­still striving for that "outstanding row, but let there be no doubt -it 
game." will come. And when it does, ''I'm never really satisfied with the Maureen King will finally rest easy. 
continuedfrom page 11 
IRISH COUNTRY 
(under new management) 
7 44 N. Notre Dame 
232-0111 
OPEN AT NOON-LUNCHES SERVED DAILY 
MON--$.25 beer 9-1 0 lUES--ladies night 2 for 1 9-1 o WED-SAT--live music 
happy hour mon-fri. 12-6 

~ 


judge holdsprivate meetings with Raiders, attorneys 
But there was no clue whether al Football League for alleged an­LOS ANGELES (AP) -A federal any proposals had been offered. titrust violations.
judge, still hoping for a last-minute The Coliseum, which is seeking a At issue is an NFL rule thatsettlement of the Oakland Raiders' replacement team following the Los three-quarters of all the league'santi-trust suit, held closed-door Angeles Rams' move to Anaheim. team owners must approve anymeetings Thursday with half a dozen 

and the Raiders are suing the Nation-
SeeJUDGE, page 13
attorneys in the case. 

Bill Robertson, negotiator for the Los Angeles Coliseum Commission. was the only prindpal figure in the 
NHL announces teams 
case who was present as the judge tried to find a compromise in the bit­ter legal battle which stems from the 

for All-Star matchup
Raiders' efforts to move to Los An­geles. Robertson said only that ll.S. Dis­MONTREAL (AP) -Minnesota Thursday. trict Judge Harry Pregerson had rookie goaltender Don Beaupre and The starting forward line for the asked that he attend the pretrial con­the Los Angeles Kings high-scoring Wales team, which will face the ference. Triple Crown line headed the list of Clarence Campbell Conference in "If the NFL was going to make a 
12 players selected to the Prince of the 33rd NHL All-Star Game on Feb. proposal I guess they would want 
Wales Conference All-Star team, the I 0 in Los Angeles consists of center me to be there," he speculated. 
National Hockey League announced Marcel Dionne, left wing Charlie 
p
c: • • J.
• p •
CORRECTION­
rHE CHARLIE CHAPLIN FILM SERii:~ showings are on 
tuesdays at 7pm 
in the annenberg auditorium. Snite Museum of Art In the REEL NEWS film nev. 
were incorrectly listed for Wea .. 
. "'·~o
•
r • 
-
Simmer and right wing Dave Taylor ofthe Kings. All three players rank in the top· five in league scoring this season, with Dionne leading the way for the second straight season. 
Another King, goalie Mario Les­sard, was selected to back up Beaupre, the 19-year-old rookie who has been a sensational perfor­mer for the North Stars this year. With four players the Kings have the most selections on the squad. The Montreal Canadiens and Hartford Whalers were the only other teams to place more than one playeron the team. 
-.-• •ong the first team in 
nel of 30 members 
, ...wnal Hockey Writers 
.;so._ . .-. .n -three for each Wales 
See NHL, page 13 

~~~------------------------------------­


~-------------------~------­
------------------~­
Despite the recent warm weather, there's still enough snow on the ground to spatter these energetic to t11qu1Ae about/M1tes students. 

The Observer 
Friday,January 30, 1981-page 13 


12 minutes of the game, fell to 4-3 and II-';. 
Iowa held Purdue scoreless for 6 I/2 minutes during its first-half out­burst, which turned a 7-6 deficit into 
a 21-7 lead with 9:35 left in the period. Iowa extended the lead to 2'5-8 on consecutive jump shots by Vince Brookins and led three other times by I 7 points before settling for a 39-27 halftime advantage. 
Purdue never got closer than eight points in the second half as the 
Hawkeyes  maintained  their  
defensive  pressure  even  though  
Krafdsin,  starting  center  Steve  

Waite and Kenny Arnold got into foul trouble. 
.. Judge 
continuedfrompage 12 
frant·hise shift. Tht· league voted .22­0 last Mart·h against the Raiders' proposed move. It would take 21 af­firmative votes to approve a move. 
The case is scheduled to go to trial Feb. 9. 
Tht· battt·ry of lawyers who crowded into Pregerson's chambers Thursday included representatives of the Raiders, the Coliseum Com­mission, the NFL. tht· Rams and the Oakland Coliseum which was grantt·d permission to join tht· suit as an intervenor last week. 
Tht· normally talkative attorneys wt·re tight-lipped about the secret mn·tings. Aftt·r a talk with the entire group, Prt·gerson met separately with the attorneys for each party. 
Former San Francisco Mayor Joseph Alioto, who, along with attor­ney Moses La'iky, represents the Raidt·rs and Its managing general partner AI Davis, emerged from their private st·sslon with the judge and gave an elaborate shrug but refused to say much. 
"We talked about mutual friends." was all he would say. 


.NHL 
continuedfrom page 12 
Conference city -are defensemen Larry Robinson, of Montreal and Mark Howe of Hartford. The second team consists of Lessard, defen­semen Borje Salming ofToronto and Randy Carlyle of Pittsburgh, center Mike Rogers of Hartford, left wing Steve Shutt of Montreal and right wing Danny Gare ofBuffalo. 
Five ofthe 12 players-Beaupre, Lessard, Howe, Carlyle and Rogers -will be appearing in their first NHL All-Star competition. Dionne made the Wales team -which has won all five previous meetings un­der the inter-conference format ­for the sixth straight time. With 148 

Someone you care about having a drinking 
problem??? 


Student Health Center 3rd floor Ext. 8809 
points in the balloting, Dionne fell just two points short of unanimous selection. 
Wales Coach Scotty Bowman, cur­rently the general manager of the Buffalo Sabres, will make eight addi­tions to his squad next week. At least one player from the conference's other three teams -Boston, Detroit and Quebec -must be named. 
The voting, with points awarded on a 5-3-1 basis for the first three choices, was as follows: 
Goalies: Beaupre, 81 ; Lessard, 79. Defensemen: Howe, 99; Robin­
son, 84; Carlyle, 77; Salming, 72. Centers: Dionne, 148; Rogers, 66. Right wings: Taylor, 136; Gare, 55. Left wing: Simmer, 146; Shutt, 66. 



Chlcauoland's onlu appearance! 
WFYR WELCOMES ... 
An Acoustical Euenlnu With 
JAMES. TAYLOR 
Feb. 11-14 
$13.95 
Call ...
~ 
(219)769-6600
~ 
IN CHICAGO, CALL

Holiday Star (312)734-7266 
Tickets also at
Theatre 
TICKETRON HOLIDAY PLAZA/1-65 & U.S. 30/MERRILLVILLE, IN 
Also coming to the HOLIDAY STAR THEATRE ... 
Gordon Lightfoot APRIL4-s,s9.9s 

--First AnnUal-­
OFF-CAMPUS FORMAL 

Century Center Great Hall January 31,.1981 9pm-1am---­Price: $14.00/couple Band: Crystal 

at the following locations ... 
Campus View: 
Shllrri McGonil(le 54585/rish Way Apt.l03 
177-8280 St. Mary's Off-Campus Lounge 
llllflt-lpm 
LaFortune Student Centw 
ll_..::..lpm 
Notre Dame Apls. CiwoH!fd:oll.lur 
I.

.V•·+II 
OPEN BAR 9:30­10:30pm 


The Observer Friday,January 30, 1981 -page 14 
Irish host four teams in indoor track meet 
By MATf HUFFMAN Caron is a freshman who proYed dash. Bell, a running back on the Sports Writer himself this past cross-country Irish football squad, will also com­season, often keeping a close pace pete in the long jump. The Notre Dame indoor track with top runner Aragon. Caron In other field events, Barney finished third In the mile run at last 
team wiU run its second meet ofthe Grant, who leaped six feet, seven year tonight when they face Loyola, inches at Iowa, will be In the high
week's meet In Iowa City. Notre Dame will be strongest in

Bradley, Valparaiso, and Illinois­jump. Steve Chronert, Brian Chicago Circle. The home opener Mcauliffe and John Kuzan will jump, 
the I 000-yard run where Macauley 

for the Irish is scheduled to begin at 1 and Aragon are both slated to run. skip, and throw in the pole . vault, Macauley was first in the half-mile at 
6:30 p.m. at the ACC and will in­triple jump and shot put, respective­Iowa, whereas .Aragon won the mile
clude fifteen separate events. Admis­ly. in a time of 4:10 and the 1000 yard­
sion is free. According to Coach Plane, Loyola run at that same meet. 
In the first meet of the season, has a number of good distance and Steve Dziabis and Rick Rogers are
Notre Dame was nipped 66-65 by ' middle distance runners which scheduled to run the 880. Dziabis
the Hawkeyes of the University of should test the main Irish strength. Iowa, though the Irish won nine of Their top star Is Chris Herox in the fifteen events. "We ran suprisingly middle distance. well for this early in the season," said Bradley is strong in the hurdles 
sixth-year head coach Joe Plane. and also has some very fine jumpers. · "Right on down the line everyone Ed Foreman is their top runner in ran competitively. the hurdles, while Pat Lawrence is a 
"Right on down the

"This was our first race as a team formidable threat to Bell in the and hopefully it wiU be a sign of line everyone ran sprints. The Bradley squad has al­things to come," Plane continued. ready placed second at the tough Ed Kelly serves as Plane's top and on­competitively ..." Purdue Invitational. 
ly assistant. The University ofIllinois is strong 
Over the Christmas break Irish in the sprints and is the favorite as a stars Tim Macauley and Chuck team in this category. No informa­Aragon ran at East Tennesse St. tion was available on the Valparaiso 
Aragon ran a 1:52.2 in the 880-yard won the 600-yard dash at Iowa while track team. race which will qualify him for the 
Rogers placed second in the half "We will be running about 40 NCAA track championships March mile. people total in the meet,"says Piane. 13-14 In Detroit. Macauley, running Veteran Jacques Eady will carry "We are only allowed to enter four 
In the same open half, came in at the Notre Dame banner in the 600 participants in each race so a few 
1:52.8 and should improve enough yard dash. Eady is a proven star who guys will have to sit out, but it is still 
.Irish 

won the 440 in last week's race a good chance to see the bulk ofthe team in action." 
to gain an NCAA berth for himself. 

Tonight's crowd will be treated to against Iowa. an Irish team which is strong throug­Jim Christian, who placed third In This year's team shows great week...The Irish host St.Mary's (Cal.) hout each event. However, the the 300-yard dash last week, is the potential and tonight's meet is a continuedfrom page 16 on Monday and LaSalle on Wednes­top Irish runner in the 440-yard chance for Notre Dame fans to see
middle distance and distance run­day...Notre Dame is unbeaten dash. Dave Bernards is the top Irish • what should be some outstanding ef­scoring list, has scored in double
ners are unquestionably the stron· against the Gaels, while the Ex­gest facet ofthe team. performer In the high hurdles. forts. Take a couple of hours off figures in I 5 of 16 games this year, plorers only win over the Irish was In the two-mile run Ralph Caror. Greg Bell is the top Irish sprinter tonight and cheer on some Notre and 37 of his last 40...The Notre last year's 62-60 victory at the should lead the way for Notre Dame.! and will compete in the 60 yard Dame athletes at the ACC at 6:30. Dame home stand continues next Palestra in Philadelphia. 

NOTRE DAME STUDENT UNION SPRING BREAK IN DAYTONA BEACH MARCH 13 ­22, 1981 4 PER ROOM5207 (2 Double Beds) 6 PER ROOM5195 (3 Double Beds) TRIP INCLUDES • Round trip motor coach transportation on first class charter coaches leaving the campus Friday evening March 13 and traveling straight through with plenty of partying to Daytona Beach, arriving the following day. The return trip departs the follow­ing Sat. in the afternoon, and arrives back on campus the next day. • A full seven nights accommodations at the Plaza Hotel of Daytona Beach, Florida. • A great time in Daytona with special parties and activities. • Optional trip to Disney World available. • All taxes and gratuities. SIGN UP NOW AT THE TICKET OFFICE IN THE LA FORTUNE BUILDING 8:00 a.m~ -5:00 p.m. MON.-FRI. OR CALL 283-3031 (after five 283-6283J  


~j1()1"tScJ)==~=t='=e~========~=====================&=id=a=y,=Ja=n=urury==3=o=,=I9=B=I==p=ag=e=I=S 
br The Ohsert•t•r and Tht• ASJuoatcd f'ru.' 

The Ski Club ofIndiana University is sponsoring a skiing trip Feb. 27-March (Fri.-Sun.) at Schuss Mountain and Crystal Moun­tain in Northern Michigan. The package includes two nights lodging at the Traverse City Days Inn and lift tickets for Saturday and Sunday. There will be a meeting Feb. 3 at 3:30 p.m. in the small theater of LaFortune. Non-members are welcome. For more information, call David Nagy at 259-1378. 
Marvinjohnson says he got a good workout. But he scored an easy victory in the main boxing event at the Atkinson Hotel's Grand Ballroom. Johnson, who Is trying to regain the world light heavyweight title he lost twice, scored a technical knockout over Richard Nash ofToledo, Ohio, at 1:35 of the third round. Nash's cor­ner advised the referee to stop the fight after Johnson delivered a stunning uppercut. 
American League baseballowners unanimously 

approved sale of the Chicago White Sox and the Seattle Mariners yes­terday in what might have been record time. The White Sox were sold to a group headed by Jerry Reinsdorf, a suburban Highland Park real estate developer, and Eddie Einhorn, a CBS television executive, for 120 million. It took the ownerssome 25 minutes to reach the decision on the White Sox franchise. Another half hour later, the league an­nounced it had approved sale of the Seattle Mariners to George Ar­gyros, a southern California real estate developer. Argyros purchased 80 percent of the club for Jl0.4 mlllion with four previous owners retaining 5 percent each as limited partners. Retained as partners of the Seattle franchise were Danny Kaye, Stan Golub, Lester Smith, and Walter Schoenfeld. In the White Sox deal, Reinsdorf and Einhorwill be equal partners in the new operation purchased from a group headed 
by BiU Veeck.lt was in direct contrast to the five-month priorordeal in which the American League owners twice turned down effortS by Edward}. DeBartolo Sr., a Youngstown, Ohio, multi-millionaire bull· der, to buy the Sox. 
f-.---------------­
Classifieds 
PEBBLE BEACH, Calif. (AP) ­Heavy rain and occasional hail washed out the scheduled first round of the Bing Crosby National Pro-Am, and officials were less then completely confident the famed golf tournament could be com· pleted even on a delayed basis. 
A series of Pacific storms have dumped more than three inches of rain on the three Monterey Penin­sula courses, wiping out any play on Thursday and setting back the tournament schedule by one full day 
-at least. The schedule now calls for single rounds Friday through Monday. But that's on a weather-permitting basis. 

interhall basketball ranklngs 
ADMSION 

I. Grace No. 24 ( 4-0) 
2. 
Howard No. 3 ( 4-0) 

3. 
DIUon No. I ( 4·0) 4. Planner No.8 (2-2) 


5. Alumni No. 12 ( 4-0) 
BDMSION I. 0-C No. H (3·0) 2. DIUon No. 51 (3-0) 
3. Flanner No. 30 ( 4-0) 4. Grace No. 53 (3·0) 
5. Fisher No. 41 ( 4-0) 
Rain, hail delay tourney 
"Perhaps we can play tomorrow," 
said Clyde Mangum, deputy com­
missioner of the PGA Tour, In 
announcing the Thursday rainout. 
He was asked what the plans may 
be If further rain and/or delays are 
encountered, Mangum cautiously 
replied: "We wouldn't want to go 
beyond what we have announced 
today. Hopefully, we can finish the 
tournament on Monday." 
The peculiar format for this 
unique event prohibits officials from 
doubling up and playing 36 holes in 
a single day, as sometimes happens 
in other events. 
The 168 pros, each with an 
amateur partner, are required to play one round on each of three courses before the field Is cut for the final round. It would be inequitable: to make the cut before all players have played all courses, so this event 1 can play 72 holes only over a four­
day period. 
"Contractually, we can play as late 
as Tuesday," Mangum said, but care· 
fully declined to indicate that the 
tournament would go that long. 
Should only two or three rounds be 
finished by Monday, it is possible 
that tho: tournament could be ter­
minated at that point. 
"We'll just have to wait and see," 
Mangum said. 
CBS, which will provide national 
television coverage of the tourna­
ment, said it would extend Its 
coverage to Monday, with an air­
time of4:30-6 p.m. EST that day. The storms that have plagued the tournament began hitting the 
·central California coast In waves ear· ly in the week. More than three Inches of rain has fallen since then. Winds, clocked in excess of50 miles per hour, have ripped branches from the cypress and pines of the Del Monte Forest, downed power lines and disrupted electrical service to thousands ofcustomers In the area 
"Perhaps we can 
play tomorrow." 
Hail pounded the courses Thursday. 
Sand traps filled and overflowed. Pumps were brought into play hut couldn't keep up with the downpour. Streams ran through the fairways into Carmel Bay. Pools and puddles formed on greens and tees. 
"The bunkers were full," Mangum said. "The golf courses were un­playable. In the face of the forecast, it was apparent we could not play." 
The long-range forecast called for clearing on Friday, but with the pos­sibility ofmore rain on the weekend. 
o\11 o·LtS~tiii•IJ old~ lnttSI bf• fl'l t'tvt>Cl h'( 4 45 p m IWil t1dy~ pr!.)t 10 lhP '""'·" ,.. w1111 11 flu• ul '" nm Tht• Observer olftce vvdl art"Ppl cl.hs•'•Pd!i Mtt<•d r; It"• uJh fr11!.•·. 101)0 .t m 10 ~ 00 p m All C:litS~•f•t•ds •nus! bt j1lo· /lotld '" 1 •1'1 11• jll'f~Otl o·l !h·,.Hytl lh~ nlrtll 


, but Ryan, without moose jokes th.,re attentionS thursday night would be: no Moose Control -and 
parents are coming for jpw. cyprcss: 
DESPERATELY WANT TO SEE UCI.A Your first personal, and not your GAME. NEED TWO GA'S FOR last. . I t·an't walt for our "indoor
bowling lca~ut· now for-what would I do then when I got a
TICKETS

MING. IIANI>ICAP LEAGUE little time to myself on the job? I
THEM. CALL TOM AT 3770.44 picnic" tonight. "A loaf of bread, a CONSISTING OF 5-MAN TEAMS, would lose: control without Moose 
jugofwine..." need 2 GA TICKETS FOR NIHICI.A

R--------------8 STARTING IN EARJ.Y FEBRUARY. Control I would moose out on all 
BASKETBAU. GAME. PLEASf. CAI.I.
lust·Lost·Lost FOR FliRTtiER INFO CALl. RAY AT the fun In my tiny, cramped, little 
"mantzer":
~NTED

_____..
SHIRLEY AT8661 OR 1715 BEFORf.
8xll Rrn Envlp <>652. TO TURN IN TEAM ROSTER.~ Ilk. All of you Observer people Glad your Interview went wc:U.
5P.M.

Field Museum CALL TOM AT 3039. would make me homicidal If there
wamed; fl·mal~ roommate for a Did you US<· that charm on the Dean? 
--------------1!
Fish Biology --------------8 were no Yukon hideaway 10 which I Bro
4th In Campus View Apt for '81-'82need uda ga'S--CAU. MArl' AT
Chris .!811-8738 191!1 GRADS: Resume• TYPESET could escape every now and then.
year. Call 2191 or 2191!. Must know
232-0921.

(camera ready). Special Jill. Close Moose Control
by Feb. 2.

-------------8 to N.D. Call272·3716. --------------8 --------------8 1--------------8
need GA and student rix to UCLA.
rewardS please Hdp! LOST navy room I51 MORRISSEY IS A
--------------8 need Money? Wanted N.D. students
Call Anne 41-4543urjoan 41-5796.
blazer ar Sprinll"reen t·ont·en after ella workshop Justice In the 80's: 1 BOOKSTORE SHRINE ...VISIT IT!I! To the sexy ckks In 446,
to work for Jr. Parents weekend Ban·
acddenr on rhc sralr.. ar rhc ACC. Doubts and Dlrc:~tlons at llayc:s --------------8 quct (Sat. Feb. 7)and Breakfast (Sun. --------------8 Here's tht" personal you wanted. 
wanted; I UCLA TICKET, STU-
Blazer had l pins on lapel, I gold inI· Healey Auditorium from7:30 to ' jim, franz and cush...belatcd thanks How arc the hunks at the 'Brar?
feb. 8) at ACC. Contact studenrDENT OR GA. PLEASE CALL PAT AT 277-8727 
rials SLF, I !lllver. Roth were given to IOpm and follow-up dil!Cussion for the beers, conversation and 441
C<x>rdlnators at Nonh and South 
me by my gradnf.ubcr bdore h<' Saturday morning from 9:30 to noon protection last wednesday. some f.rg.
Dining Halls. 

--------------1!
died. Plea.•ccaU 41·H711ffound. at the: l.lbrary Lounge:. All students, guts need clues.... zopper,
-------------8
need 2 UCLA GA'S. Call Jim, 4613.
--------------8 faculty and South Bend residents are --------------8 Sorry I'm a spoiled, sdfioh, ego­loot blue bookbag. PLEASE Invited. --------------8 to all those who made my type guy who never cleans up the CALL KEN AT 1632. 
parents coming for jpw. NEED 21st BIRTHDAY A SUCCESS: Vlcld, popcorn machine. I'm even sorrierTWO GA TIX FOR UCLA. PLEASE
--------------8 FOR SALE Janlnc, lktsy, Con, Marty, Bob, Nora, that those: arc my good points.
CALL MARG AT 6879.

found; a watl'h at the 9 p.m. FOR RENT Denise, Mom, Dad, Gram, Mando Sarph 
•bowing of Ca>ablanca on January --------------8 and Mrs., Mike, Frank, Brian, Mike, 
desperately need two UCLA GA'S 8--------------8
21st. Contact Beth ar 41-4637. for Rent: Cozy apt. for rent near Usa, Uz, Vince, Jimmy D., Mo112,
for Sale 1974 AMC Hornet. Goodpay big U caU 1174
--------------8 River & Park. 1150/mo. Call 232-Mac, Beth, Ann, Susie, jo, Diane,
Condition. 1200

--------------8 get ready for the Great Elcapel
h,.l; gold and pearl 4549. Steve, Chris, and ofcourse: the Boss. 
need 4 GA UCLA TICKETS. CALL --------------8 CHICAGO HERE WE COME! New
bracdc=t at or on the.-way to Thanx to one: and all--you (lOt me
--------------11 
BOLOAT4510 1974 AMC Hornet. Good )cncy people wiU find out It's their
for Sale:: the san frandsw basketball furnished house: for rent couple "Point Blank!!!"
Condition. $250. Call David 233·
--------------8 kind oftown.
pme. IF FOUND PLEASE CALL blocks from ~ampus and furnished May the: Boss be with you
3658.

need 6 G.A. TICKETS FOR Love MBc!o:D
1284. RI:W ARD. country house for rent, 12 minutes Quard
BOSTON-N.D. BB GAME ON FEB. -•-------------8
--------------8 
to N.D. 277-3M4. 288-0955. P.S. I am sorry If the computer
10. WILL PAY BIG UU. CALL
loll; one pair of men'S GLOVES --------------8 omitted anyone rrom tbe above list. -------------8 
DOUG, 277-2787. shave,
ON ST. MARY'S SHUTTLE. BEIGE 2 bedroom bungalow, carpeted, par· --------------8
--------------8 ThaniiA for a great time last friday
WITH BROWN SUEDE FACING. IF tially furnished, I 0 minutes to N.D., Instant cash paid for clau
PERSONALS night!
wanted; one student ticket
FO!JND, PLEASE CALL BOBBY I 068. good area. 288·09~5. rings, U0-185 OR MORE. WE to the: ucla game. WILL PAY Love:,
--------------11 MAKE HOUSE CALLS. 255-2402. 
I U. CALL MICHELLE AT 1363. Amy
-------------8 nice houses fur rent for next st·huol 8--------------8 --------------8 year or summer. Furnished, good --------------8 mary Ann Cleary: attention fllrls our brother BIU 
need 2 tix for l!CLA game. Cali -------------8
neighborhood, dose: to campus. I know I've been a slouch In cor­turns 22 Feb I, and we think IU time 
Eileen at8042.

277-36o4, 288-0955. respondence, but I'm cute. Don't for him lo find "Mlsa lllght" Hc'l 6ft --------------8 ever forget that. with dark halr,blue cycs,an EG­
--------------8 everyone Invited to join Grace U,wis
bless with PAIR UCLA STU·
[ NOTICES me I Love,
share three bedroom house, two ECON major,Pres Keenan. Ap­
and Farlcy In celebrating the beatln(lDENT OR GAs. RECEIVE U U CALL

blocks from campus. One JH plicants must be 
of them gamecocks this Saturday

GREG 2754 10 PM OR LATER.
houscmatc needed. JIOO per month. atuacllvc:,pleasant,liberatcd,and In· 
NIIJIU at Gulssc:ppca. The fun wW

-------------8 287-9506. --------------8 -------------8 tcUigcnt.SophJr,4Sr only,SMC need otart at 1oand last rwm
professional typlnll. Term need two g a's TO S. CAROUNA jane-o, not apply. Applications accepted at 
papers, theses, ell'. Tape transcrlp­--------------8 HOOP GAME, FOR MY BROTHER I'm thlnldng about you. Forgive --------------8 
ncar ND. Furn. Apt. Kiu·henctte, 410 Keenan on Feb! only HAPPY 
Uon. La..r year's sam~ low prices. All SO HE WILL BRING MY STEREO. me for being so lax In wrltin(l. (I'm ··-GUITAR IMPRESSIONISMGUITAR 
Utilities 272·6174. BIRTHDAY BILL work guarantt·ed. aardvark CALL8598 getting better..rcally,l am!) My jar Is IMPRESSIONISM ... .:. ..................... .. 
--------------8 --------------8
automatk solutions. 289-67H. grt·ar off-CAMPUS AI'T.--1 hdrm.; --------------8 fuU of nickels--It's costing me more HITS THE NAZZ TONIGHT--NINE 
need UCLA Tix, GA or Stud. call Dick than just calling you! l~sterVani
--------------8 cenrral air/heat; ~arpcted; washer/ TO MIDNIGHT. 
beginning February 3 thru March 31 1224. I love you--mord Happy 22nd I Bancock's gone, so ·----(IUIW lmprcMionlsmlwhatls Ill­
dryer; bus-line; close to banks. 

(each Tuesday 6·8 pm) Mr. Tony --------------8 watch those stain on your way out
grut·ery; pels OK. Jll ~/mo. Lease tim COME TO THE NAZZ TONIGHT 
Campbell of the Counseling and need 2 GA UCLA tickets. Call 1284. cause "Disco Daddy" won't be there
and dt'p<>Sit. 2117-1698. AND FIND OUT. 
Career and lkvt'lopment Center at --------------8 this time to catch your fall. SMC will condut·r a <'oupl~s· group 
--------------8 
need 2 Tickets for parents N.D. vs Love, B.W., Cath, Tiny. --------------8 g;nduatl·s or staff · ahovc-avt."rage -------------8 pucker up glrlslU only 82 days 
for tho&<· who an-recently marricc.l l.aSali<-Pay Much U J Caiiii<>09 
apt., 3 rooms, tile: bath, well· fur· notice until Paul Somelo&ke rccdvc:o or who are Interested In marrlaf!e. 
nlshed, private, hcst of clientele, --------------8 I'm sorry I staned those moose bln.bday klsaca. The line Is fonnlflll Those lnrercsted must nmta<'t Mr. 
need Two UCLA GAs. Call Bob at
1190 single, nea Logan Rrldgc, ~49 jokc:o. I'm sorry II spread like the now ll 200 Stanford; the phone: Is Tony Campbt·ll. Open to all fa~ulty, L.W.W, Mish .. 25~·1194 1201. plague. Shucks, I simply thought --------------8 rlfllllflll Olrthc hook II 8636. 
otalf, NO and SMC srudt•nro. This Is --------------8 --------------8 they were amooseln(l. mike Monk, --------------8
I nc:"d UCLA GA or Stdnt TIX.PLEASE I know this Is aday late but I had to
fur Rent: Large houses for summer --Ryan Verlkrkmoosc··
CALL TOM I700 111'1 It In print. Happy Birthday and I 
llllr.e to talk backwards. Do youllf10: hope 20 Is a rvc:at year mr you!
and nt·xt Fall. Furnished and slknr 

I!SAELP LLAC GI!RGTA 7981. I need ucla tlx .. JUJOE 1142 Margaret
alarm system. --------------8 -------------8 
--------------8 ---------'-----· 

By BRIAN BEGLANE 
Sports Writer 
DULUTH, Minn. -Looking for an oasis in a season when things just aren't going your way? 
If you're the Notre Dame hockey 
team, you could not have picked a 
better place than this fresh-water 
pon city off the shore of Lake Supe· 
rior. 
The Duluth· Arena, home of the 
Minnesota·Duluth Bulldogs, has 
been a favorite among Irish players 
the last few years. The two teams 
open a crucial two-game Western 
Collegiate Hockey Association 
series here tonight and WNDU·AM 
( 1490) will carry the first game live 
beginning at 9 p.m. South Bend time. 
Notre Dame has won the last six 
games between the two teams at the 
Duluth Arena and owns a 9·2·1 ad­
vantage over UMD since the two 
clubs started playing here in 1972. 
The Irish are floundering in ninth 
place in the WCHA with a 5·12-1 
record ( 9-1 5-2) and are struggling 
to stay afloat in the race for the 
playoffs. Notre Dame is five points 
out ofthe last playoff spot. 
The Bulldogs, meanwhile, were 
swept last weekend by Wisconsin 
and fell into a three-way tie for sixth 
place with Michigan and Colorado 
College, all with 8-10-0 league 
records. Duluth is 13-13·1 overall 
and Irish coach Lefty Smith wuula 
South Carolina invades 
ACC tomorrow night 

By KELLY SULLIVAN I'm sure he's taking South Carolina Associate Sports Editor in the right direction." Notre Dame, meanwhile, will look Although Notre Dame beat South 
for the kind ofbalanced scoring that Carolina 90-66 in Columbia last has upped their record to 13·3 this season, Digger Phelps and his three 
week. Tripucka,Jackson, Woolridge, 
senior starters will still be looking and sophomore floor general John for revenge tomorrow night when Paxson all hit double figures in Tues­they host Bill Foster's Gamecocks. day night's Cornell victory, while Tri-captains Kelly Tripucka, Tracy centers Tim Andree and Joe Kleine 
Jackson, and Orlando Woolridge produced 12 points between them. 
were just freshmen the last time "I think we're learning that we can 
Notre Dame played against Foster, win ifwe are patient and control the 
then the head coach at Duke Univer­tempo of the game," Phelps ex­
sity. His Blue Devils bounced the 

plained. "We've been shooting well Irish from the NCAA semi-finals in as a team and that is a result of 1978. waiting for our shots." The stakes aren't as high in tomor­The Irish are still without the row night's clash, but Phelps and his services of forward/center Gil seniors will undoubtedly try to Salinas. The 6-1 I senior has not make the most of their second returned to action since hurting his chance against Foster. The first-year right knee against San Francisco, and Gamecock coach brings a young 11· may miss the remainder of the 7 squad into the ACC. Despite South season while wearing a special Carolina's mediocre record, Foster's brace. Substitutes Bill Varner and 
club did upset Marquette in Mil· Tom Sluby continue to give Notre waukee two weeks ago, and have the Dame a big boost in the midst of an potential to make this season's battle injury-plagued season. 
with Notre Dame anything but the "Our bench has come through rout that occurred last year. when we needed relief and that's a 
"We have to be alert," says Phelps, good sign," added Phelps. whose club owns a perfect record at IRISH ITEMS -Kelly Tripucka hom~ this year. "They're a good bas­continues his impressive push for ketball team that does a lot of dif· All-America honors...The senior for­ferent things to try and surprise you. ward, now sixth on the all-time Irish Anybody who thinks this is an easy 
See IRISH, page 14
game for us is mistaken." The starting lineup for the visitors like nothing more than to shonen the gap between his club and the all­imponant eighth spot in the WCHA. 

"The way things have been going, maybe this trip to Duluth is justwhat we need," said Smith, whose team was swept at the ACC by Denver last weekend. 
"This road swing the next three weeks is very imponant for us," con­tinued the Irish coach. "Itcould very well decide our playoff fate." 
The Bulldogs received some bad news last Monday when top goalie Bill Perk! was ordered to rest for at least three weeks after it was dis­covered he had a skull fracture. The mishap apparently occurred back in December during a holiday tourna­ment in Hartford, Conn., when he was hit in the head by a puck during pregame warmups. 
Although he fell to the ice and was 
momentarily knocked unconscious, 
he came back and seemingly was 
well. Excessive bleeding out of one 
of his ears last Friday alarmed doc­
tors and he underwent tests at the 
University ofWisconsin hospital. He 
was ordered offthe ice Monday. 

Ron Erickson, who posts a 2-6-0 
record and a 4.68 goals against 
average, will be in the nets tonight 
and probably all weekend. Irish 
junior Dave Laurion should get the 
nod in goal tonight. 

Notre Dame was fighting off 
various bouts with the Bangkok flu 

Friday,January 30, 1981 -page 16
Sports 
•

leers open road swmg 
all week long and will not escape the injury bug this week. Senior defen· seman Scott Cameron remains sidelined with a separated shoulder while junior left wing Dan Collard will be out again with a broken knuckle. 
In some good news for the Irish, sophomore Dick Olson returns to the lineup after spectating two weeks with a knee injury. 
After this weekend's series, the 
Irish travel to Ann Arbor to play 
Michigan. 

IRISH ITEMS Tomorrow night's game will not be aired on radio because of a conflict with the Notre Dame-South Carolina basket· ball game... the Irish post a 1-8-1 record against WCHA teams at home this year...junior Jeff Logan leads Notre Dame in scoring with 29 points... he and Kevin Humphreys are tied for top honors in goal scoring with 15 each...Michigan Tech goalie Frank Krieber was named WCHA player ofthe week af. ter allowing only one goal all last weekend in a sweep of Michigan 
State. 

Sorry, no gossip • 
lt has become the fashion for journalists to constantly be on the look out for nasty things to report. Dig up the dirt, dream up a catchy headline and keep those presses rolling. 
After all, a good newspaperman does have a certain responsibility to keep the readers informed. And, as any reader worth his contact lenses will admit, a real-life, drag-a-few-names-through·the-mud scandal is much more fun to read than one of those stories where everyone lives happily ever atter. 
Unfortunately, I cannot oblige those tastes with this panicular column because, quite frankly, nothing is rot­ten in the state ofcagedom. 
At least not at Notre Dame. I know, I know...a couple juicy tidbits would really spice things up about now, right? OK, how about this one: 
There are three seniors on this team that don't get along and hate each others guts and are jealous ofeach other and have voodoo dolls of each other which they jab pins into (under their warm·ups, of course) while one ofthe other two is at the free throw line. 
Sound good? 

.....---------,-------------, goal on this team is to win a
Sorry, not a bit of truth to it. Alright, try this one. There are two centers on this team 

Irish 
(no names, but they're both over 6-10) who despise 

vs. each other. In fact, every day in practice when one goes 
South Carolina 
against the other, elbows to the stomach, jabs in the back and knees in the groin are 

Tomorrow evening, the Irish host South common occurrences. 
Carolina in the ACC. Coach Digger Phelps How about that one? 
stresses that this game will be one of the Yeah, you're right, it's all 
bigger games ofthe year for his squad, and lies. That's the trouble with 
expresses hope that NO's "sixth man," the you children of Watergate: 
student body, will attend the game in large You don't believe anything 
numbers. Game time is slated for 8 p.m., a unless you hear it on tape. 
change from the original staning time of Well then, if there is no 
I:30 listed on everyone's ticket. gossip to report then why 
bother to talk about the bas­ketball team? I mean, usually around this time of year, 
love with each other than Samson and Delilah. Hard to figure? Not for Marc Kelly. 
"The difference this year is definitely attitude," points out Kelly who is seldom caught without the right words to describe any situation. "Everybody believes in each other and in Coach Phelps' coaching strategy and everybody gets along. And I mean everybody. 
"But the biggest thing about this year's team is the attitude that no one individual is more important than the team," he continues. "Before there were always people upset about playing time, or how many shots they were getting, but that's not the case now. The only 
national championship." 
It starts with Digger, who is noticeably calmer during both practice and on the bench. This season, for in­stance, after consecutive losses to Marquette and San Francisco, Digger could have panicked. In fact, he had perfect reason to panic. 
He didn't panic. What he did was call his team toget­her and made sure they didn't panic. He told them there was nothing wrong with them, that they were still a good team and that they shouldn't panic. 
They didn't panic. In fact, they came back to win their next five games and put the 
fire out on what could have been a great story titled, oh. 
features three freshmen and a pair of 

Digger and Co. are always good for a "What's wrong 
..how about, "Dissention riddles cage squad!" Ah, but 
seniors. Rookies Kenny Holmes 

with the basketball team?" story. This year, however, 
no.such luck. .. 
( 12.1 ppg.) and Brad Hergenson 

they're letting all of u~ cynical, skeptical sports wrfters 
Another scandal bites the dust -nipped in the bud 
(6. 5 ppg.) anchor the front line, 

down. This year the question is, "What's right with the 
by a team that knows the joys of harmony and a coach 
while classmateJimmy Foster, an in­
basketball team?" 
Inside Sports 
who's dead-set on keeping it that way.
timidating 6-9, 230-pound center, is 

And that's not fair. After all, why should the news 
So that's what's right with the basketball team -at 
averaging 13.3 points and 10.9 

department get all the juicy stories? But more than that, 
least right now. Whether or not it remains that way
rebounds. Foster's experienced 

it's downright confusing. This was supposed to be a 
won't be answered until sometime between now and
Bobby Knight 
backcourt duo includes Seniors Sam 

team complete with big egos, questionable talent and a 
those first rays ofspring break sunshine on the beaches 
Dunleavy and Zam Fredrick. 

revolving-door substitution policy that would cause 
ofFon Lauderdale.
-page 12
"You can bet this team will be 

many to wiggle obscene gestures behind Digger's back. 
But stay tuned. This team might be worth a few 
well coached." noted Phelps. ''Bill 

However, after 16 games this team is 13·3, playing 
parties before Dick Enberg says good night for AI, Billy
well, beatinggood teams, confident in itself and more in
Foster turned things around at Duke. 
and the entire NBC sports crew. 




