• • .Posse -page5 

VOL. XV, NO. 104 an indt>pendent student newspaper serving notre dame and saint mary's WEDNESDAY, MARCH 4, 1981 
Garner63.6 percent 
Murday, Kenney triutnph 
By MIKE O'BRIEN 
StaffRefmrtl'r 
Notre Dame students yesterday elected Don Murday 
and his running-mate Tara Kenney to the offices ofstu­
dent body president and vice-president. 
Also d<:cted were four new representatives to the 
student st·nate, Clare Padgett in District I, Brian Callag· 
han in I>istrkt 2, Tom Weithman in District 4, and Matt 
Huffman from off-campus. 
District 3 saw the only really close race of the day as 
Carl Carney and Patricia Hiler survived the challenge of 
three other candidates to advance to a runoff election 
tomorrow. 
Murday and Kenney polled 63.3 percent of the SBP 
vote to overwhelm the opposition ticket of Pat Bor­
l·hers and Rosemary Canino, which garnered 19.2 per­
cent of the ballots. Write-in candidates pulled 17.4 
percent of the total vote. 
Tht· victorious ticket carried all but one of the 
residence halls as well as winning a large majority ofthe 
off-l·ampus vote. 
Aquiet Murday attrinuted his victory to his "door-to· door" campaign and said he planned on a good deal of administrative work before taking office on April I. He added that his immediate priorities were, however, 
"sleep and school." 
The new SBP, who calls Avon, New jersey his home, is a junior business major currently serving as president of Carroll Hall. Kenney, who is the president of Lyons Hall, is a junior from Adrian, Michigan. 
Padgett, the new senator from District 1 (St. Ed's, Lewis, Holy Cross, Carroll, Sorin, Walsh, and Alumni) is a sophomore from Lewis. She received 61.4 percent of the vote to defeat St. Ed's junior Richard Navarro, who had 38.6 percent. 
In District 2 (Stanford, Keenan, Zahm, Cavanaugh, BP, and Farley), Keenan freshman Brian Callaghan beat Zahm junior Edward Bylina 62.8 percent to 37.2 per­cent. 
The vote total in District 3 (Dillon, Badin, Howard, 
Morrissey, Lyons, Pangborn, Fisher) was Carl Carney 
26.7 percent, Patrie a Hiler 23.2 percent, Tom Cushing 
21.8 percent, Bob Zimmerman 17.4 percent, and David Dejute 10.9 percent. Carney is a Fisher sophomore and Hiler is a sophomore from Lyons. 
Tom Weithman, a junior from Grace, gained 57.9 per­cent of the District 4 (Fianner, Grace, Pasquerilla East and West) vote to defeat sophomore Karen Corbett, who lives in Pasquerilla West. 
junior Matt Huffman ran unopposed in the off­campus Senate race. Total voter turnout for the election was over half of the student body as 3,656 people cast ballots. 
Profs protest 

Tenure issue incitesresignations 
By DAN LEDUC include tenuring Delores Frese, the he had no knowledge of the letters andJOHN M. HIGGINS principal plantiff in the case. The and could make no other comment professor also said other members of on the case. Three members of the Notre the committee plan to resign as well. Fr. Hesburgh discussed the tenure 
Dame English Department tenure "I'm not in the position to discuss issue on the WSND-AM program committee said in letters yesterday that," Brennan responded. "I am a "Talk It Up." they plan to resign from their posi· memher of that committee. I am See TENURE, page 3 tions on the committee as a result of sworn to confidentiality." the pending settlement in the Brennan did say that at a Feh. 11 faculty sex discrimination suit. meeting of tenured English profes­
TeacherMarva Collins 
ProfessorJoseph Brennan, a mem­sors, a lawyer outlined the general ber oftht· committee, confirmed last terms of the agreement, stipulating night that the letters of resignation 
produces miraculous results
that it had not yet been finalized. 
were received by members of the 
"They (the lawyers) are expecting committee. lie added that the 
that the settlement is imminent," he gym, time for the librarian, and time "There are some very gtJod teac­resignations were contingent upon said. "That is the last I heard." By DAVID RICKABAUGH for recess. I had about fifty minutes a hers in the system, and some very
the outt·ome ofthe settlement. StaffReporter
Professor Thomas Werge, English day to teach," she said. bad ones. All ofthem should be heldllniversity President Theodore Department chairman, declined to Ms. Collins decided to leave her accountable for their work. The
Six years ago Marva Collins, at age 
lksburgh yesterday verified that the comment on the matter saying that teaching position with the Chicago good ones should be paid more. The
39, left her position with the
unidentified committee members any speculation at this time was school and establish her own bad ones should be out. Some teac­
Chicago school system -a system
had submit_tcd their resignations. He "premature." 
program in the ghetto neighbor­hers become at·tors and actresses,
she called "anchorized on excuses"
said the proposed settlement All other English professors, who hood ofWest Garfield Park. and in the evening they practice for
-to start her Westside Preparatory
"solves the matter under considera­were said to have been sent letters "I made the decision to leave after the next day's show," she said.
School with hooks rescued from a
tion to our satisfaction and to the contacted denied any knowledge of I asked myself the question, is thisgarbage bin. 
p;lrties involved in the litigation." a settlement. Professor Robert what I would want for my own
Ms. Collins hecame upset with the
An:ordlng to one proft·ssor in the Slabey said that he had received only children?" Ms. Collins explained. WEDNESDAY·=====:=:=:=:=:=:
way they taught the children, "I had
English Department, tenured profes­one letter of resignation and said The school she established
no time to teach the students. There
sors have been informed of the that that resignation was contingent ::;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:$·
stresses the basics -plenty of
was time for the school psyc­
details of tht· settlement. The terms upon the terms ofthe settlement. 

'FOCUS

reading and vocabulary. The school
hologist, time for lunch, time for
of the settlement, the professor said, Professor Thomas Jemiclity said places a heavy emphasis on the clas­sics with endless drills, memoriza­tion, and daily essays on what it all 
Ms. Collins commented that the means. 
main reason for the success of the "The most important thing is that 
program was the attitude ofher teac· hers, "they tdl till' suaknts that till' time for failure is over, welcome to 

Dorn addresses SLF audience 
we believe in the students and never 
let up. We praise them, scold tlll'm. suct·ess. They arc t·onstantly
hold their hands, holler in their ears, By DIANE DIRKER~ commentary on aspects not only of humorous to bitingly satirical to always with the sense that there's working, they never sit down, wt· Nt•u•s St11h life in Alaska, but of broadt·r fields deeply philosophical, Dorn kept nothing they can't do." statt·d the don't have any desks for our teac· 
such a~ politics, travel and the audience interest by being unpre­Chicago educator. hers because they arc always walking from student to studt·nt.
Edward l>orn, an lllinois·born economy. dictable and, at times, bizarre. Dorn Sint·e the formation of · the "There are also too many frills in
writl'f whose works range from "All I needed to get a scat was to showed an appreciation of black Westside Preparatory School sht· pol'lry and short stories to novels be single," Dorn commented about humor when he laughed while began to teach students classified as 
today's schools, just about all you and critiques, was last night's overcrowding on airplanes, "Who describing his consort Tom Clark's hopeless with successful results. 
need, really, is books, a blackhoard fcaturnl speaker at the Sophomore wa~ to know that my family would "Louisville Slugger" treatment -Her students perform above the 
and a pair of legs that will last Literary Festival. be following me in three days and I which consisted simply of an old national norms in reading, writing through the day." Dorn read from two of his newest was an imposter!" woman being mutilated hy both an and arithmetic. They also know their From the start of the school as a works: juneuu In june, a novel Yellow Lo/u, conceived by Dorn axe and a baseball bat. Shakespeare and Longfellow. one-room operation in the Collins recounting his summer experience1 while spending time in Southern Earlier works by Dorn include: "The students will only produce home, it expanded to a enrollment 
in Alaska, and Yellow Lola, a collec· California, reflects Dorn's percep­The Newly Fallen ( 1961 ), Geog­what they are required to produce. of over 800. Currently there are tion of brief insights and witticisms tions of the "eighties age", an age he raphy ( 1965 ), The North Atlantic Teachers are in charge of the plans to construct a new building to whkh Dorn termed sees filled with sarcasm and even Turbine ( 1967), Gunslinger ( 1968 production. Therefore, the students ·house approximately 2,000 stu­
"cpigrammatical." scorn. and 1969) and Collected Poems are only as good as their instruc­dents. }tmecm in june is a humorous His tone ranging from lightly ( 1974). tors," Ms. Collins stated. See TEACHER, page 5 

NewsBrieh 
Wednesday, March 4, 1981 -page 2 
by The Observer and The Associated Press 
Heading to-ward ·vietNam II?
The Reagari administration is like~y to seek ~un­way improvements on the mid-Indian Ocean isla~d ?fDtego Gar~t~ to allow the nation's mainstay bomber, the B-52, wtthm shorter stnkmg range of the Persian Gulf, Pentagon sources say. The sources, who asked not to be named, said a request likely will be submitted to Congress today to provide $39 million for the runway-widening project. The purpose, they said, will be to shorten by many hours the time it takes to fly B-52s over the Arabian Sea and Persian Gulfarea and return to base. B-52 bombers have flown 27 surveillance missions over that region from the mid-Pacific island of Guam since former 
President Carter ordered such flights in January 1980 as part of his effort to show the Russians U.S. resolve. Air Force officials say round· trip flights out of Guam to the Arabian Sea normally take about 30 hours. Diego Garcia, about 2,300 miles from the mouth ofthe Persian Gulf, is much closer to the objective area than Guam. Diego Garcia, a British-owned island, has been gradually developed over the past seven or eight years into a key base for U.S. naval forces operating in the Indian Ocean. The Carter administration's farewell budget recom­mended about S700 million this year and next for military construc­tion on Diego Garcia to support rapid deployment forces. -AP 
Convicted murderer Steven T. Judy is receiving hundreds of letters from across the country, including one that con­tains an upbeat tune "Death Row Blues, The Ballad of Steven Judy." Judy. 24. scheduled to die before sunrise Monday in the electric chair, would be the first person executed in Indiana in 20 years. The ballad brought a chuckle from Judy, according to his foster parents in In­dianapolis. Most of the letter writers urge Judy to change his mind. Some ask him to accept God; others ask that he fight for his life. Still others just wish him goodbye. Judy was convicted for the rape and murder of Terry L. Chasteen, 21, and the drowning of her three pre­
school children in April 1979. He has refused to allow appeals of his death penalty, and says if he isn't executed he will escape to rape and murder again. A woman on death row in Texas wrote Judy and pleaded with him to change his mind, warning that his execution might start a chain reaction that could eventually lead to her death. ­
AP 
While citing red ink as the justification for rate _in­creases, the Postal Service is fashioning a $28-million "~ampus-hke environment" for management seminars in a posh capttal subu~b. Over heated objections from local residents, the Postal ServiCe defends its purchase of 83 acres in Potomac, Md. for training supe~­visors. "It is largely through our managers that we make the produc­tivity gains that reduce the need for future rate incre~~s," sp~~esman Joe McDonald said. Besides, McDonald said, the trat~mg factht~ was 
funded before the Postal Service asked last year for htgher rates. The 
resulting increases,.including a three-cent boost in_first class rates, are 
expected to take effect this month. Potomac restdents have fi~ed a 
lawsuit and written letters to newspapers across the country m an 
unsuccessful attempt to prevent use of the land to train postal 
managers. -AP 
Sandy Allen of Shelbyville, Ind., isn't. really any tall~r, she just moved up a little in the rankings. Miss Allen ts 7 feet 7 I/2 mches and had been recognized by the Guinness Book of World Records as the world's tallest living woman until last week when 8-2 Don A. Koehler, 55, Lake Villa, Ill, died. She now becomes the tallest living human. Miss Allen is a native of Shelbyville and now works in New York for the Guinness Book of World Records Museum. "Of course, we're sorry the man passed away, but w're so proud ofSandy-that nobody tops her," said Miss Allen's mother,Jackie Warner. -AP 
Former U.S. Sen. Birch Bayh is joining a new law firm that includes the campaign manager for the man who defeated Bayh in his effort to win a fourth Senate term. Bayh con­firmed on Monday he will join the firm ofBayh, Tabbert and Capehart, with offices in Indianapolis and Washington. One of the partners is Daniel F. Evans Jr., campaign chairman for Sen. Dan Quayle, the Republican who defeated Bayh last November. "I think what we brought together here is a pretty good mixture of Democrats and Republicans, and they're all pretty good lawyers that can serve clients," said Bayh, a Democrat. Bayh said his Indiana loyalties played a major role in his decision to turn down bids from law firms in New York, Washington and Chicago. Bayh said he has no plans to return to politics. -AP 
Comptroller General Elmer Staats declared in farewell testimony yesterday that President Reagan's budget proposals ignore chances for even greater savings, while some cuts pose a "planned neglect" approach which could backfire in the years ahead. Federal Reserve Chairman Pal Volcker, meanwhile, told the Congress that "all the risks...(are) on the side of not cutting back" enough. Unlike Staats, he found no danger in any of the trimmings sought by Reagan, though he quarreled with rosy White House forecasts ofa quick drop in inflation. Staats, retiring this week after 15 years as chief of the General Accounting Office -the auditing and investigative arm of Congress -told the House Budget Committee that ending automatic cost ofliving adjustments in federal programs, improved debt collection and other changes could pare the federal budget even further than the adminstration's targets. Similarly, Volcker testified to the House Ways and Means Committee that more severe cuts than proposed by Reagan would not harm the economy. But he expressed none of the reservations which Staats had about some specific parts ofthe plan. Administration officials are finishing a revised budget for fiscal 1982 containing reductions of about S45 billion. It is to be submitted to Congress next week. -AP 
Mosdycloudy,with scattered snow flurries to~ay, ch~ng­ing to rain as the temperature climbs above 40. Snow flurnes tomght and tomorrow, with lows around 30. -The Observer 
President Reagan has sent 20 more American "training experts" -bringing the current total to 54 ­to El Salvador. He also promised the country a cool 525 million increase in military aid. The press is treating the entire EI Salvador affair in an lntrigueing manner. No one is quite sure how to react. 
In Sunday's Chicago Tribune, syndicated columnist 
Russell Baker parallelled the events leading up to the 
VietNam war to the events in El Salvador. First came the 
advisers, then a little more aid, more advisers, a tad 
more cash, a few more guns and then... 
But then there is the other side ofthe coin. Congress 
appears to be rather sharply divided over the Presi­
dent's recent actions. Take for instance Sen. jesse Helms 
( R-N.C.) who lauded Reagan's initiatives saying, "There 
are nervous nellies saying we've got to do nothing, not 
even unhook the fire hose when the house is burning 
down." 

Then there is Rep. Richard Ottinger (D-N.Y.) who 
along with colleagues is contending that President 
Reagan must consult Congress about the initiatives he 
took this week. These members of the House cite the 
War Powers Act since military personnel are involved 
and El Salvador is not the most tranquil portion of the 
Southern hemisphere. 
The question just looms: 
arc we on our way to Viet 
Nam II? Could it be just a 
matter of time until one of 

those 54 gets killed? What if none ofthe advisers were to get killed -suppose they just would be taken hostage? The Tribune featured a spread on the possibility of another Viet Nam in El Sal­vador. Experts in interna­tional affairs and foreign policy analyzed the current situation. The press, however, is treading on this ground quite cautiously. The papers are merely as­
king questions and raising 
possibilities. 

The press has the power to shape the public mind. They did a marvelous job on Viet Nam, for nightly bloodbaths from distant rice fields hit home in more than the literal sense. The sentiment nurtured by the press provoked the draft card bonfires, the black armbands and the long marches. So as long as the press is raising the possibility of another Viet Nam, why are they cautiously treading? 
Don't think that news is totally objective; its nature makes that impossible. The reader only gets the news a reporter records and reproduces. Working under ex­treme deadline pressure, a reporter may not tell the entire story, and sometimes a personal bias is un­avoidable. The angle a reporter takes also drastically af. fects what a story's outcome will be. An editor's placement of an article also greatly influences the im­portance of a story. (i.e., If you read newspapers, you would much more readily remember what appeared on page 1 than on page 3 7 in the lower lefthand corner.) 
If the press wanted us to be enraged with the Presi­dent's actions, they could easily rekindle memories of 

: TheDbserYer~· 
Design Editor................... Deirdre Murphy Design Assistants ................. Greg Swiercz 
Elizabeth Clay T)•pesetter ............................... Bruce Oakley News Editor.............................. lynne Daley Copy Edit<~rs ..........................Valerie Evans 
Kathy Casey Sports Copy Editors .............. Gary Grassey 
Ed Konrady Typist .............................. ' .. Michele Kelleher si•stems Control ..................... Marty Hynes ND Day Editor ...................... Molly Woulfe Ad Design ............................... Woody &Joe Photographer ........................... Mike Tuohy 
The Observer (USPS 598 920) is pubHshdd Monday through Friday except ouring exam and vacation periods The Observer Is pubiished by the students of Notre OafT•e and Saint Mary's College SubscrlpUons may be purchased for $20 per vear ($10 per semester) by writing The Observer. P.O. Box 0. Nolre Dame. lnc1iana 46556 Second c:a~s postage paid. Notre Dame. Indiana 
46556 
The Obaerver is a member of the ~ssociated Press All reproouctionrights are reserved 



Viet Nam. If the press wanted us to be delighted with the President's actions, they could easily begin to present a case for a strong militia and the need to give the United States her international respect back once again. The press is marvelous at subtly shaping opinions though they contend they only 'objectively report.' 
Look at the hostages. The press, not the State Depart· ment, began labelling the days. "Day 400," you see, is much more dramatic than· "about 14 months." The press likes to psych us up. 
Their cautious stance on the events in El Salvador, however, reveals a few possibilities about all ofus: 
•We are busy trying to survive economically and 
think that President Reagan is showing marvelous leadership. For if he should spark a military confronta­tion, our economic problems would be quickly negated. The unemploy­ment rate would dive and some fresh blood (no pun, of course) would be injected into our emaciated economy. •We're tired of thinl<' ·g about wars. We've had enough. •We're too afraid to even consider Viet Nam II. •We simply do not 
care. 

Perhaps no one can detect the country's _pulse because there is no one pulse to detect. Even our legislators cannot come to agreement on the problem of El Sal­
vador. The press now appears to be treating the El Sal· vador question in a surprisingly neutral manner. So far, they've only been 'objectively reporting.' They're going to let us form our own opinions, perhaps because they believe this issue is too touchy to take a strong stance on. Ofcourse, the press is raising questions, but it is not going to answer its own questions. Quite a turnaround from the attitude exhibited in the VietNam era, 
What happens in the next few days, weeks or months in El Salvador will certainly prove interestingand hope· fully not tragic. The press is doing a commendable job in presenting only the facts of the situation in El Sal­vador. It's now up 10 the public to decide just how to interpret those facts. Let's just hope we don't wait to form opinions until the crisis personally touches us. 
Observer note 
As a public service, The Observer publishes short press releases, better known as blurbs, submitted by campus and local organizations. 


The Observer Wednesday, March 4, 1981 -page 3 
Fitzgerald discusses author O'Connor 
By MARGIE BRASSIL 
SMC Executive Editor 
Saly Fitzgerald, editor of a collec­
tion of letters by Flannery 
O'Connor, spoke yesterday morning 
to a small group in the Library 
Lounge. Mrs. Fitzgerald's talk was 
the fourth in the Sophomore 
Literary Festival st•ries. 
After reading a short piece by Ms. 
O'Connor, Mrs. Fitzgerald answered 
questions about her acquaintance 
with the author and her work in 
editing Ms. O'Connor's private 
papers. Mrs. Fitzgerald was in· 
troduced to Flannery O'Connor by a 
mutual friend in 1948. At that time, 
according to Mrs. Fitzgerald, Ms. 
O'Connor was looking for a quiet 
place to live and write. 
"We were about to move to Con· necticut," explained Mrs. Fitzgerald, "and suggested that she come live with us. We were so far from anywht:re else, that the only diver­sion in the evening was to sit and talk over a few martinis. We became very good friends," she said. 
Ms. O'Connor lived with the Fitzgerald's for two years before faJ. ling ill and confined to her own home until her death. "She had 
named my husband her literary ex­ecutor when she died. He had 
.. .Tenure 
mnttnuedfro"! page 1 
Current discontent among faculty members is "In one department, on one issue," he said. "I feel that it will have an Immediate affect, but not a long-term one." 
He said that he did not believe 
that yesterday's resignations would 
have a serious impact on the tenure 
process. 
"I don't think (the resignations 
were) about tenure, but about this 
particular case," he said. "The settle­
ment Is not what (the members) 
agreed to. They would rather see the 
Issue settled through litigation." 
Fr. Hesburgh stated that any fur· ther litigation, however, would ad­versely affect the current tenure selection process. "Academic mat­ters solved in the courts set prece­dents," he said. "Now, tenure is handled through the faculty com­mittees. The process starts Inside the department. 
"lf every problem with tenure went to court, It would take tenure decisions out of the hands of the departments" and give control to the courts, he concluded. 
SMCCCDC sponsors blast-off 
Saint Mary's Counseling and Career Development Center will sponsor "Blast-off: Entering the World of Work", Saturday from 9 
a.m. until 12 p.m. in Carroll Hall. 
The seminar will discuss "Transition from College to, the World of Work" from 9 a.m. to 10 a.m., with Louise West of Banner Personnel Service in Chicago. What I Wish Someone had Told Me Before I Started to Work, presented by a panel of recent Saint Mary's graduates, will be discussed be­tween 10:15 a.m. and 11:30 a.m., with lunch in the Saint Mary's Cafeteria wedge room following. 
planned a book ofher essays and let­ters, but with other work he was doing at the tim<.> he would not have been able to finish. Then I decided to finish collecting the non-fictional writing," said Mrs. Fitzgerald. 
Mrs. Fitzgerald explained that af­ter this first collection of Ms. O'Connor's work was published, she was asked to assemble the author's letters. Ms. O'Connor's mother had 
the rights for publishing the letters, 
but Mrs. Fitzgerald said that she "was 
persuaded of the wisdom ofpublish­
ing these letters." 
Since the publication of that col­
lection, entitled The Habit ofBeing, 
Mrs. Fitzgerald said she has found 
more letters which she would want 
to see published as more people 
have become interested in Ms. 
O'Connor's work. 


Prof urges respect for PLO 
By LISA BONTEMPO 
News Staff 
At the invitation ofthe Palestinian 
Liberation Organization, Dr. Craig 
Hartzer, a government professor at 
Saint Mary's College, met for over 
two hours with Yasir Arafat, the con­
troversial head of the Palestinian 
Liberation Organization, in Beirut, 
Lebanon, over Christmas break. 
Speaking last week in Carroll Hall, 
Dr. Hartzer said his trip included ten 
days In Beirut and six days in the 
Israeli-occupied West Bank. While 
in Beirut, he was often underground 
for security reasons. 

Although the trip was P.L.O. funded, Hartzer scoffs at the notion that he is a puppet ofthe P.L.O., ter-' mlng it an intellectual Insult. He feels the plight of the Palestinians, about four million people con­centrated in jordan, Lebanon, Israel, and the Gaza Strip, should be the 
concern of everyone, if not for humanitarian reasons, then for oil in­terests and world peace. 
Arrangements for the trip were made through a fellow advisor ofthe Model United Nations, a program 
Security installs (hotline,phones 
By LOUIS BREAUX 
StaffReporter 
The installation of "hotllne" 
phones, which were a part of both 
platforms in the SBP elections, is an 
idea already being worked on by 
car.1pus security. 

The hotline phones would be placed at relatively remote locations on campusto be used in case of an emergency. Director of. Security Glen Terry said that right now,Security is considering three locations In student parking areas. 
The system w~ll be s.:t up in one of two ways. The phones, when lifted, would automatically cause a receiver in the security office to ring. There would be either one unit for all the outside phones or a unit for each Individual outside phone. The second system would enable security to know immediately the location of the caller. Costs will determine which system wlll be used. 
At present, no phones have been ln!>talled. "We are waiting for a cost estimate from the telephone com­pany. From there we will take the proposal to th~ Dean ofStudents for a_recommendation," Terry said. 
"The main concern we have is that of vandalism," he added. 

Keith McCafferty tallies up the SBPISBVP election results. (photo by Mike Tuohy) 
Hartzer organizes annually for the College, in which students assume the role of U.N. delegates in New York City each Spring. 
Besides traveling extensively in the Middle East -touring historical as well as politiCal sites of interest, experiencing the hospitality of many Palestinians, and seeing the devestated city of Beirut after its 1975 war -Hartzer met many heroes and leaders ofthe P.L.O. 
Along with the twenty-four mem­bers in his group, made up mostly of professors and two journalists, he met such figures as the leader of Black September, the raid on the Is­raeli Olympians at Munich. Before actually meeting Arafat, the group was shuffled between three build­Ings for security. This was done in darkness, because the city's power was out. While waiting in the fourth building, the electicity was restored, and Arafat suddenly appeared. The group met with Arafat for two and a half hours; afterwards, Hartzer came away with the impression that Arafat was a "very articulate, charisrr.atic 
man." 
For much of the trip, Hartzer ad­mits freely to being "very . 
People tend to view these phones as collector's items. I remember when such phones were in use by the South Bend police and it was the phones around the Notre Dame campus that were vandalized the .most." 
frightened." Everyone seemed to be armed, according to Hartzer, often with machine guns. The ciry of Beirut, run by a coaltion govern­ment, including the P.L.O., Syrians, Lebanese-Nationalists, and Christian-Philangists, called for tight security measures. Amidst all the destruction, chaos, and fear of Beirut, Hartzer was Impressed by the extent ofthe organization of the 
P.L.O.. Self-sustaining economic, in­dustrial and even educational intra­structures were part of the P.L.O., complete with P.L.O.-run cub-
COPP MUSIC CENTER INC 
430 N. Main So. Bend 233-1838 Take 31 South and right onto Mal,n eGuitars • Harmonicas eMetronomes eBanjos • Accessories •essons eRecordersesheet musfceRepairs 
camps, a youth pollticization group. 
Although the Palestinian question is not a one-sided Issue, Hartzer feels that tt* Palestinians, with their in­stitutions and government branches, has everything -except a homeland. Hartzer feels the Pales­tinians can not be excluded from a peaceful settlement. 
For more insight Into the Pales­tinians and the Israel/Arab conflict, Dr. Hartzer and various panelists will be on "Straight Talk", continu­ing tonight through Thursday, at 7:30p.m., on channel 34. 

SPRING BREAK SPECIAL TO O'Hare 
To O'Hare March 12, 1981 
6:00p.m. Loads at Circle 6:15p.m. Loads SMC LeMans Bus Stop 
To O'Hare March 13, 1981 
12:30 p.m. & 4:00p.m. Loads at Circle 
12:45 p.m. & 4:15p.m. Loads SMC LeMans Bus Stop 
SPECIAL FARE SPECIAL TIME 25 Percent Discount $15 One Way Hourly Service from O'Hare March 22, 1981 Every Hour 
LOADS AT O'HARE Lower Level Carson Circle Restaurant Tickets on sale March 5 & 12 in LaFortune Activities Center . Between noon and 5 p.m. Call283-3031, 9 a.m. to 5 p.m.; 283-6283 after 5 p.m. 
The Observer Wednesday, March 4, 1981 -page 4 
AAC seeks Pieta notninations 

ANNEJANE DREGALLA 
StaffReporter 

Nominations are now being sought from among the students, faculty and staff of Saint Mary's College·for the Sr. Maria Pieta Award for teaching excel­lence. 
The award, first conferred in 1976, is awarded to a faculty member nominated by the Saint Mary's community to a spe­cial Maria Pieta Committee. This com­mittee, in turn, presents three nominations to the Academic Affairs Council who selects the recipient. The Maria Pieta Committee is comprised ofa broad base ofcampus individuals includ­ing students and faculty from many academic areas and administration who carefully screen all nominated in­dividuals, according to Susan Yanick, Freshman Advisor and chairperson ofthe Committee. 
Ms. Yanick is encouraging the Saint Mary's community to carefully consider the characteristics ofSr. Pieta's life when submitting their nominations. 
Sr. Pieta began her association with Saint Mary's as a student in the class of 1922. Following her graduation she en­tered the Congregation of the Sisters of the Holy Cross and spent herentire life as a religious oncampus. She served the col­lege in various capacities including: teac­her of journalism, dean of women, head of the theology department, director of the staff student program, vice president 
of the College ( 1955-1965) and alumnae-college coordinator, until her 
retirement in 1969. 

Not only was she considered a highly competent teacher, but she was renowned for being a strongly devoted friend and counselor to all who sought her. 
In light of her life-long devotion to Saint Mary's and her personal qualities, the requirements for the Sr. Maria Pieta Award include: seriousness of intellec­tual inquiry demanded ofstudents, chal­lenge to students' imaginative and creative capacities, attitudes expressed 
to students concerning study, and an in­terest in the growth of the student both academically and personally. 
Since the award was first given to Sr. Cecilia Ann Kelly, a professor in the Art Department, in 1976, it has honored the teaching excellence offour other profes­sors: Dr.Dorothy Feigl (Chemistry), Dr. Isis Quinteros (Modern Languages), Dr. 
Linnea Vacca (English), and Dr. Mark 
Bambenek (Chemistry). 

Nomination sheets for the award have 
been distributed in each of the halls and 
are due in the Freshman Office by March 
13. 

Kremlin re-elects Brezhnev
l 
l 
t MOSCOW (AP) Leonid world revolution but stressed a structure was the expansion of the 
Brezhnev's aging leadership team, commitment to detente. Central Committee's membership 
t keeping a firm hold on Kremlin The 74-year-old Brezhnev an­by 32 in elections Monday evening 
l power, was re-elected yesterday to. nounced the unchanged leadership by the Congress delegates. 
~ 
the ruling Politburo at the close of lineup amid shouts of"hurrah" from Party spokesman Leonid t the 26th Soviet Communist Party 5,000 delegates at the Kremlin Zamyatin told reporters that the Congress. In a brief speech, Palace of Congresses after a secret new committee has 319 members, vote by the party's Central Commit-
Brezhnev predicted victory for compared with 287 members tee. elected at the last party congress in
f f 
The secretive Kremlin policy­1976. making board retained all 14 He indicated that about 35 per­
f 
INTERNATIONAL 
Apathy kills
f 
l 
members, whose average age is just cent of the new Central Committee over 69, and Brezhnev remained its have been elected for the first time. 
CAREER? 

effective head as party general­A membership list was not im­secretary. mediately released.
SeniorArtFest 
Brezhnev, reportedly in ill health Eastern European sources said and seemingly strained at times expanding the committee was a waybeen selected a year ago," he said.
ByJEFF HARRINGTON 

during the nine-day Congress, also of bringing younger regional SovietCallahan expressed his optimism
News Staff 

serves as Soviet president. His officials into the third tier of powerthat the tradition of a senior arts fes­
tival will continue in the future, leadership role goes back to 1964, without dropping older veterans. 
Due to "a definite lack of interestA representative when Nikita Khrushchev was ousted Brezhnev opened the Congress
noting that "it all depends on whet­
in the project as a whole," the Seniorwill be on the camRUs Feb. 23 with a foreign policy addressas party boss and head of govern­her they can get it organized earlyArts Festival was cancelled this year, ment. suggesting an early summit meeting
Wednesdav 
enough."

according to Ed Callahan, festival Eight alternate -or non-voting with US. President Reagan to break
March 11, 1981 
director. 

-members of the Politburo, the the deadlock in US.-Soviet relations. 
to discuss qualifications for In its pi'ace, the seniorclass hosted The Soviet leader also indicated
next rank ofleaders who average 65
advanced study at a "contemporary arts festival" last readiness to discuss a variety ofyears of age, were also re-elected by
AMERICAN 
week in the Isis Art Gallery, said Cal~ 
Lent 

issues with Washington, includingthe Central Committee, Brezhnev
GRADUATE SCHOOL 
lahan. 

the SALT II strategic arms limitations and job opportunities 
announced.

In past yers, the festival en­
treaty, signed in 1979 but never in the field of 
The outcome appeared to ind­compassed drama, visual arts, ratified by the U.S. Senate, East-West icate a lack of immediate Kremlin
requires

poetry, prose, architec~ure, and 
military confidence-buildingmusic.· The festival committee also 
INTRNATIONAL MANAGEMENT 
plans to bring younger faces into the 
measures in Europe and security in published programs of the day's 
top communist hierarchy, Western the oil-rich Persian Gulf region.
diplomats said.
fasting

events and provided wine and
Interviews may be scheduled at 
But Brezhnev ruled out discus­cheese for visitors. 
"They apparently want to prop up sions of internal affairs of Afghanis­Brezhnev as long as possible," one
Placement Office 
This year the festival committee tan, where, according to Westerndiplomat said. "Change induces all retricted its coverage to the visual
Main Bldg. 
Campus Ministry reminds stu-sorts of uncertainty. They think it's intelligence experts, 85,000 Soviet arts, with no publications and no 
dents ofthe following fasting regula-· better to stick with a consensus troops are battling Moslem insur­beverages, said Callahan. 
tions for Lent: persons ages 21-59 leader who doesn't rock the boat." gents opposed to the Kabul govern­
AMERICAN GRADUATE SCHOOL 
He attributed the condensed ver­may eat only one full meal on Ash One sign of change in party ment installed by Moscow. 
OF INTERNATIONAL MANAGEMENT 
sion of the festival to apathy on the Wednesday and Good Friday, no 
Thunderbird Campus 
part of the senior class and delay in snacks; persons 14 and older may 
Glendale, Arizona 85306 
organizing the Senior Arts commit­not eat meat on Ash Wednesday or 
tee. "The commissioner should have Fridays of Lent. 
President contradicts pleafor intervention 
"But the difference is soWASHINGTON (AP) -A leader
NOTRE DAME STUDENT UNION'S 
profound," he told CBS. "What we sought to convince U.S. officials yes­
of the world Socialist movement are doing is at the request of a
SPRING BREAK IN DAYTONA BEACH 

government ...offering some help prospective attempt to mediate an 
terday to participate in a against the import or the export into the Western Hemisphere of ter­end to the strife in El Salvadr, while 
President keagan .:>id he does not 
rorism, ofdisruption." foresee sending U.!). combat troops 
The lesson of Vietnam, Reagan to El Salvador. 
saL.!, was that "never again do we 
send an active fighting force to a brushed aside the Socialist proposal 
THINK ABOUT ITI 
A State Department spokesman 
country to fight unless it is for a even before it was advanced. The 
cause that we intend to win."

GUARANTEED TC 
He said there has been a "great foresees no such role for the l:nited 
spokesman, William Dyess, said he slowdown" in the shipment of arms
BE A G~EAT TRIP 
States. ' to the leftists. Reagan, in an interview with CL.' Dyess, reacting to the Socialist
... Only 4 places left on the tr:lp so, sign up today. 
news, said, "I certainly don't see any proposals. said, "As to whether or likelihood of us going in with fight­not the government of El Salvador
(Last day to sign up will be Thursday, March 5th. 
ing forces." wishes to pursue negotiations at this 
Reaga· agreed that some parallels time, and in what channels, it is a with Vi• mam .tn: being drawn as the matter for the government of El Sal­United State~ sends military advisers vador to decide. I don't see now 
such a role for us." 

in the ticket office II 
to El ~alvador. 

The Observer Wednesday, March 4, 1981 --J.. page 5 
Refrigerator fee pays for -wiring 


By DAVID SARPHIE 
StaffReporter 
Contrary to the beliefs of many 

students, the thirty dollar fee 
charged for the operation of 
refrigerators in the dormitories is 
not solely for electricity. · 
According to the director of Notre Dame Housing, Fr. Michael Hcppen, much of the money Is used to defray the costs of rewiring the older dorms. "Although both the new Pasquerilla dorms have modern wiring, as do the two towers, Flan­ner and Grace, several of the older dormitories have had to be rewired," he explained. "The old cir­cuits weren't designed to handle the many modern appliances that stu­dents are using today." 
Heppen described the fee as a "fine", levied by the Administration to discourage the use of the large, electricity-hungry appliances. 
The Notre Dame student guide, du Lac, specifies that refrigerators be limited to 4.6 cubic feet In 
Modern posse aims to arm public 
TIGERTON, Wis. (AP) -Meet 
the posse, 1980s style. As in the ol­
dt·n days, they come from the local 
community, hut now they ride pick­
up trucks, not horses. They stack 
semi-automatic rifles in gun racks 
and hide .4'is in their pockets in 
plan· of saddle-holstered Winches­
tcrs or six-guns at their hips. Instead 
ofassembling in saloons, they gather 
at private mobile home parks. 
But they share somethingwith the 
posSt·s of the West -a willingness 
to ride against the bad guys. The 
problem Is that their definition of 
had guy dot·sn't usually square with 
the sheriffs. 
They call themselves the Posse 
Comitatus -literally, Power of the 
County. In rural W iSt:onsin where 
they are most numerous, they arc in 
constant conflict with the law. 
Taking root In the past decade in 
the poor scrublands of northern 
Wisconsin, tht· organization is trying 
to spread its philosophy of "power 
to the people" by tax revolt and 
other auivitics against state and 
federal regulation~. It is rt:aching 
beyond the f.umcrs to a wider 
audience in tht· dicontented middle 
dass. 
Jack Anderson, a r~·portcr for the If'est Bend (Wis.) .'Veu•s. describes Posse mt·mbers a'> "dead!·;, cold­blooded, serious, hut men of in­tegrity. Tht·y want "' :um the people to huck what they s~·e as a national monetary, tax a:.<J court con­spiracy." 
State officials are k:..~ sympaLhetic. Rep. David Obe, D-Wis., has referred to the 1-.1.•;,e as ",tn cx­trt·mist group w1t 1: storm.rooper fanta.o;ics." 
People interviewed in nearby Tigerton Dells cxp;·essed concern. Somt· suggested thJt large -;upplies of ammunition a1,d gun~ were buried In the woou. and th~ .1 sys­tem of undergrourt<.~ bunkc·rR had been built. 
The group's lea<k I'll, who sav they are less concerned at->out sty.:aklng out now that a <: mscrvatl\ ·; ad­ministration Is In W...~hlngl<, .. , open­ly Identify with hat. nuups. 
"The KKK and tile Minutemen know what we ar• ,,liking .tbout," said James W1. lo.strom, who describes himself ~:.11 the "new na­tional director ..:ouuh:rinsur­gency ofthe PosSt· · ...,. .merk1." 
Wickstrom salt~ ..:1.21 w:111.: his group has .-wci')(llo::,kally blended" with su< :. 11ther j!Nups, 
there were no plans to consolidate. 
He said the Posse has held joint paramilitary training in the Sierra Nevada mountains ofCalifornia with the Klan and the Minutemen, a group with a philosophy of racism and right-wing politics. 
Membership numbers are not known, but leaders claim to have cells in every state but Hawaii, with up to 2,000 members in 13 Wiscon­sin counties. Wickstrom received 16,000 votes last year in a run for a 
U.S. Senate seat from Wisconsin. Some two million votes were cast. 
Posse Comitatus claims lt-gitimacy from English Common Law that authorized s!Jeriffs to seek assistance from the citizenry. 
Wickstrom agreed to meet with the Associated Press late one eve­
• 

continuedfrom page I 
As a result of the effectiveness of her program, Ms. Collin~ recicved offers to hold the positions ofSuper­intendant of the Los Angeles County public schools and Secretary of Education in the Reagan cabinet. 
"I turned the Reagan offer down because I did not want to be a paper shuffier. I was not given the freedom I have to have. They would not give me an administrative assistant to take care of the paper work," Ms. Collins stated. 
In a tribute to the educator, the Chicago Tribune called her "a city ·-ifnot a na tiona! -resource and treasure. We all need to know what she knows, to borrow and learn from her the techniques by which she has accomplished so much for her pupils with so little." 
CBS's 60 Minutes program reported on the Westside Prcpapratory School. After the inter­view with Morley Safe1 Ms. Collins said, "If you get by 60 Minutes you should be able to walk into heaven without any problems". 
A movie which focuses on the life of the Chicago educator is being produced by CBS television. The film, "Welcome to Success!! The Marva Collins Story," tells the story of Ms. Collins since her decision to leave the Chicago school system. 
"'·-··------------------­
ning and at breakfast at a fast food Wickstrom and a score or more restaurant near Oshkosh. other members in paramilitary garb 
With him was Thomas Stock­sometimes arrive with loaded semi­helmer, the Posse's state chairman automatic weapons to defy the who wore a tin ·star hearing th~ peace officers. The law has so far words "Sherift's Posse Comitatus" ' hacked off. on the left pocket of his blue leisure Posse Comitatus members have suit. also hara.'ised local official with bliz­
Both men have spent many hours zards of common law liens, some in legal and armed confrontation amounting to millions of dollars, with authority. Stockheimer was that tie up personal assets even convicted of assaulting an Internal though courts have ruled the liens Revenue Service agent named Fred have no legal basis. Chicken in 1974 and jailed for 90 Despite the rulings, court days. hearings are still generally required . 
These confrontations sometimes to sort out the claims. 

volume. This, according to assistant director of Maintenance John Moor­man, is still large enough to cause a drain on the amperage of the older circuits. 
"If the electricity load had remained as it was in the ''iOs, the older circuit capacities would have 
Heppen described the fee as a 'fine" levied by the administration. 
been ample to handle it," said Moor­man, who has worked on the rewir­Ing of several dorms. He noted that the old circuits were designed to provide only I S amperes for up to five rooms, while the new circuit­breakers give 20 amps for only two rooms. 
Moorman estimated that the,ota.l cost of rewiring a dorm is almost $90,000. "There's a lot more to it than just installing new wires," he said. "We ha"e to get new transfor­mers, new switch gear, and the like. It's an expensive job." 
Students are not entirely wrong In believing that electricity rates figure into the charge. John Delee, direc­tor of utilities at Notre Dame's power plant, reponed that the raw cost of one kilowatt of electricity is 
3.7 cents. When multiplied by the average wattage used by a small-size refrigerator In one month, c;o kilowatts, electricity costs total $1.8'i per month or $16.6<; for a nor­mal school year. 
Fr. Hcppen was convinced of the need for the refrigerator charge as a means of simplifying the hectic student-billing procedures. "When 1 was with the Department ofStudent Accounts, they had 16 separate bil­ling.~." he said. "Now there are only three for the men and three for the women. That makes It a lot easier." 

occur because Posse members resist orders to move their illegally parked mobile homes from public land or 
APPLICATIONS for Bartenders 
arc faced with losing their farms be­cause ofunpaid taxes. 
at Senior Bar 
Available W ed-Fri and Monday 
• .Teacher 
in Student Activities Office 
The role of Marva Collins will bt· 
( 1st Floor LaFortune) 
played hy Cicely Tyson. (Ms. Tyson discussed her role during a reading recently at the Notre Dame Memorial Library Auditorium.) 
Ms. Collins conducted a lecture at Notre Dame last week entitled "People on the Move" in the 

DUE MONDAY MARCH 9 by 5:00pm
Memorial library Auditorium as part of the Black Cultural Arts Festival. 

""' 
Wednesday, March 4, 1981-page 6. 
Editorials 
Outside Wednesday 
' .
Why Kemp-Roth is not the answer 
Anthony Walton 
Now that Ronald Reagan and share of the domestic automobile If Kemp-Roth is coupled with Dave "The Knife" Stockman market was8 percent. In 1980, the other proposed moves such as 
,._,~."'-.. ""'-~--~""·
......

have revealed their plan to make foreign share was 25 percent and tariffs and protectionist laws to 

~. ,.~~"'~' 
. ··~· 

America great again, it's time to climbing. Another example is the preserve the American markets, 
. 

stop and look at what is going on electronics industry. In 1970, the there will be runaway inflation. . ,\q 
without granting them carte. foreign share was 10 percent of One scenario of this might be in 0 •. ~ ____,a, ... blanche to do as they please in the the market; in 1980 it was 50 per­the auto industry: if the industry 
·-~~-·~·~--:;:
name of economic recovery. I'm cent. There are the same kind of is protected and is not forced to as much for money as anyone statistics in the steel industry. build better products, all that else. but I don't want to endorse Worldwide, the U:S. has lost 23 limiting imports will do is drive up programs that may make thing~ percent of the markets once the price for those imports that 
. : worse than they are now. claimed. are on the market, while the ' 
.

The economy needs so many Coupling this with the removal American industry continues 
-¥..

repairs that it is impossible to of the dollar from the gold stan­churning out second-rate ~? know where to start. I think dard, which was done by a products. . ~~ 
~--o.J. 

Reagan means well, but I don't Republican president, Nixon, it is My major disagreement with 
•

thiotk that Kemp-Roth and other easy to see the genesis of the Reagan and his plans is that theyl nco-conservative elaborations economic malaise that is paralyz­ignore the real problems of the and variations on that plan will ing the country. (Nixon had to notice that Reagan is not doing
economy. Productivity must im­this country is just the opposite..
l 
work. Kemp-Roth is the proposal take the dollar off of the gold stan­prove if the economy is to im­away with either tobacco sub­As pointed out by Robert Reich, that taxes be cut 10 percent a year dard because there was no longer prove. Kemp-Roth does not sidies or pork barrel water FTC director of policy planning, for three years in order to stim­enough gold to cover debts, but I address productivity. America projects. Why not? Is he afraid of prosperity and social justice go ulate the economy. Coupled with resent the conservatives blaming has the most obsolete industrial these constituencies? Why not hand in hand, as both require massive reductions in govern-. everything on the Democrats as if system in the free world. We can't shelve the space program? Why solid central government to ad­mcnt spending, this program will there have been nothing but keep up with Germany and Japan. not increase military spending ministrate. West Germany and 
supposedly revive the economy. Democratic administrations the We have to conserve and develop where it is necessary, in good Sweden both have better in­But, as George Bush himself last 50 years. It was Republican new forms of energy, both to equipment and pay raises, instead dustrial safety, more generous 
said during the campaign, Kemp­policies much like those espoused insure a productive future and to of buying every exotic toy that the unemployment insurance, more by Reagan that got the country in­increase security in today' s· Pentagon can think of? Why not, vacation time, and national health to the Great Depression.) world. These things are over­as Leste Thurow proposes, in­programs, among other""things, 
The main exception I take with looked, and the economy is stitute a value added tax that and have a much better distribu­Reagan and Stockman on the viewed as an arena for personal would tax consumption instead of tion of wealth among the society. Kemp-Roth proposal is that it is a gain, which may be true, but income? This has worked very These countries have all this as largely cosmetic and psychologi­mortgages the future for in­well in Sweden. If you don't buy well as astounding prosperity. cal ploy to make Americans think creased wealth today. I tend to anything, you don't have to pay This was the case in America until 
that things are improving agree with Lester Thurow, author tax on it. This would encourage the productivity decline. Reagan economically. Kemp-Roth has of The Zero-Sum Society, whose savings and investment. (The seems to want to blame the two glaring flaws, one that it will basic premise is that for the average Japanese family saves 20 economic problems social
on really only help the rich as they economy to improve some seg­percent of its income, the average justice, and it has achieved legit­will get the largest amounts of ment of society must ta.ke a cut in German family 14 percent, the macy because of the manipulation money back, and it will only fuel their standard of living. He average American family 5 per­
ofinformation b t y the administra­· inflation because consumption believes that growth has most cent. This is why the prime rate is 
tion which leads us to believe that will increase, which will eat up likely reached its limits, and' that so high because there is no money we cannot have both prosperity any gains that middle and working we are in a "zero-sum game," to lend, thus restricting capitial and social justice, and pits sectors class consumers might realize which means to improve one expansion.) There would be a tax of the economy against each other from the tax savings. thing, there must be an equal credit of something like $1000 in the battle for government Kemp-Roth presupposes that decline in another. This brings a which would allow for purchases money. Again the question the money that is saved in taxes moral question into the analysis, and would also not handicap the becomes moral; who needs will be saved and invested, but I as the question becomes "who lower income consumers, but you government funds more, the think it is evident that the money will take the cut?" Reagan seems would pay more in taxes as your tobacco industry or the poor? I will only be used for consumption to believe in trickle-down, that if income increased and you think Reagan is scapegoating cer­and speculative investment, the rich have more money to consumed more. This tax could tain segments of the population in which wil.l again fuel inflation as spend, then they will increase in­be used for several purposes, order to insure the prosperity of people buy to "beat the price in­vestment, which will create more such as bailing out Social other segments. crease" which causes more price jobs for the poor, which will im­Security, and it would end all the There is no simple sol uti on to increases. The rich, who will be prove the economy. I don't think tax shelters and loopholes of the the economic plight of this receiving the largest gains from this will occur, as I said before. I rich as a way of avoiding paying country, and even if there were, it the tax reductions, will not invest think the rich will invest in solid their fair share. Savings and capi­would be impossible to deal with 
in capital improvements in order investment protecting areas, such tal investment would not be it in a column of thi~ nature. I do, to increase produc ti vi ty. They as metals and real estate, which taxed. however, feel that the current will invest in ways to protect their will only increase inflation. I Another area where I seriously plans of the Reagan administra­investments. Kemp-Roth will in­would do several things improve disagree with Reagan is his im­tion will only further complicate crease inflation and raise expecta­the economy, among them reduc­plication that social justice and the issues. If ings are to improve, tions without solving the real ing the size of government, but in economic prosperity are mutually there must be a radical reassess­prolilems. more realistic and rational ways. I exclusive, when the history of ment of the nature and goals ofthe economy, and there must be some real proposi!ions instead of false panaceas offered in order to ap­
Garry Trudeau 
pease the electorate. American industry, both management and 
YtAH. I'M rxJIN6 /.UHAT?IJ{XII, HOW 



labor, must be shown (as if they
Y&AH .. A HMM.. I 7HINI<. 
don't already know} that their
5.6,fi4tl/.. ;,ve~ alT. HA~ 
success lies in producrivity and its
A5ShltT YOU 7RieJ MAlt. 
components. qualitv and cost,
RIF/£ .. 0/?aR'? 
and not in p,overnment protec­tion. If Reagan wants ~l!ss govern­ment, he should allow real free-market ..:ompeti,:on instead of oligopolistic prt» tices that favor the sta,us quo. 

-------------~------­
Anthony Welton, ll t.c ~on ofsin­cerity in these lroub[,.o,. limes, ap­pears each Wedne&(ln.y on the edit ora/ pag~'. 
Editorial Board and Department Manager~ 
Editor-in·Cbief.....................................Paul Mullaney Features Editor.................................. . .. .\lolly Woulfe Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 Managing Editor..........................................Mark Rust Pboto Edttor..................................................John Macor 



The Observer is an independent newspaper published by the students of the Editorials Editor.............................. Michael Onufrak University of Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's Colle~e. It does not necessarily Senior Copy Editor.....................Mary Fran Callahan 
Business Manager ............................~. ..... reg Hedges
reflect the policies of the administration of either instituuon. The news•is reported Executive 'llews Editor.........................Tom Jackman 
Controller ......................... : .. , ........... -~ .....Jim Rudd 
as accurately and as objectively as possible. Editorials represent the opinion of a News Editor ...............................................Lynne Daley 
Advertising Manager.....~,··............. .. ..... Mark Ellis
majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, opinions, and letters are the views SMC Executive Editor..........................Margie Brassil 
AdvertistngSalesManof!,• , ..~ ........ ~·~·hael MeSallyof their authors. Column space is available to all members of the c~mmunity, and SMC News Edttor......................................Mary Leavitt Circulation Manager ....~ . , ............. ~ . 3eth Hackett the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, 1s encouraged. Spvrts Edttor...........................................Beth Hutfman Production Manager ....... -·-.....~··• . lhn McGrath 
-. -1: ·:..;. 


~-~================ 
T0 da~=============W=e=d=ne=s=da=y=,M::;=ar=c=h=4=,1=9=8=1=p=a=g=e=r7 
Campus
Molarity Michael Molinelli 

OOP~s ... 5o 1liAT15 

to provide excuqes for LtS. 
thePostalService... 

ACROSS 30 Arm bones 55 Apartment 13 National 1 Enthuslas· 33 Netherlands 57 Shake­League
The Daily Crossword 
tic Antilles (get going) team 7 Samoan Island 60 Pocohontas' 16 Ultimate capital 36 Games John 20 Appears 11 NewDeal buildings 62 Glrasol 24 --garde 
monogram 38 Color 64 Luncheon 26 Silence 14 Mated 39 Being 65 Barbecue 27 Speak out 15 Eternal foolhardy place 28 Stairpoat ·damnation 42 Alphabet 66 Ball­29 Taking 17 Wandering start (energetlc potshots 
aimlessly 43 Percolates one) 31 Emanation 18 Extreme 44 "No Man-67 Trlstful 32 Noticed 19 Dialect Island" 68 Bade 33 Quarrel 
of India 45 Occupied 69 Landlords 34-Longa, 20 -KeH 47 Mostfoxy of old Italy 21 Tidings 49 Pianist 35 Boomeranged 22 June grads. Waller DOWN 37 Confused 23 Aries 51 Singer 1 Colorful 40 Verbal 25 Siamese Cole fishes contraction 27 Dice rolls 52 Cup handle 2 Rock·bottom 41 Trained 
3 Snow tine 

fields 46 Consumed 4 Blue flag 48 Warfare 5 Shootoff 50 Flavored again 52 Impish 
6 Clock· 53 Eager setting 54 Descartes letters etal. 
7 Atthe 55 Sky objects 
dropol-56 Sappy palm 8 Skin 58 Poemby 9-ease Byron 
(anxious) 59 Kind of 10 Landon sch. 
11 "Can a man 61 Switch take­positions bosom ...?" 63 One-kind 
All Alohts Reserved 
12 Attracted 64 Male animal 
GRAND OPENING 

ASH WEDNESDAY SERVICES 
Sacred Heart Church 
CHAUTAUQUA 
comes to ND 
Friday and Saturday-
5:00PM ·Fr. Austin Fleming 
9:00 to 2:00 ----t 
(Please note time change)
Featuring Zibby Tebo Jim Stout/ Mike Gorecki 

•3:30 
p.m.-lecture; fatigue of metals, prof morris e. fine, northwestern university, 303 cushing. 

•4:20 
p.m. -physics collo­quium; fusion energy from mag· netic mirror confined plasmas, dr. r.r. borchers, lawrence u .. lab, 1 18 nsh. 

•:30 
p.m. -piano festival; robert mcdowell, little theatre at saint mary's. 

•7 
p.m. -sign-ups; junior class trip to chicago, Iafortune. 

•7. 
9, 11 p.m. -film; dirty har­ry, k. of. c. hall, $1, members free. 

•7 
p.m. -film; tht.• gold rush ( 1925 ), architecture 202, $1 admission. 

•7:30 
p.m. sophomore 


literary festival; robert kdly, · poet, mem. library auditorium. 
•7:30 
p.m.-lecture; victim or villian? the passionate heroine of pre-raphaelite art, elizabeth healsinter, u. of chicago, stapleton lounge ( saint mary's)/ 

•7:30 
p.m.-ht•ngal bouts; a<·c. 

•7:30 
p.m. -meet your maj<~r; sociology, II 5 o'shaughncssyy. 

•7:30 
p.m. mandatory meeting; for those interested in running for class office, Ia fortune. 

•s 
p.m. -liss lecture in judalca; a critique of martin huber's political philosophy, steven schwarzschild, vstg. prof from washington u. st. louis, galvin auditorium. 

•8-9 
p.m. -weigh-Ins; inter­hall wrestling. at ace, interhall office c-2. 


YAFholds meeting 
The organizational meeting of the Notre Dame chapter of Young Americans for Freedom will be held on Thursday, March 5th at 7:30p.m. In Room 2-D, LaFortune. The YAF chapter plans various activities ofan educational nature as well as politl· cal efforts, particularly in Office of Management and Budget Director David Sto<:kman's former congres­sional district. 
Shortly before his election, Presi­dent Reagan nott·d that "YAF has become the largt~st, and most cf. fectlve, political youth organization in America." With an aggressive program of membt'f education, a<.·· tivism, and outreach, YAF continues to prepart· conscientious young Americans for leadership roles an earlier generation of Y AFers aln·ady are assuming. A field representative of the national YAF organization will be on the Notre Dame and St. Mary's campus on March 4th and 5th. All students and faculty are invited to attend the organizational meeting or contact Brian Ansclm;tn at Notre Dame or Beth Ferstel at St. Mary's. 
Candidates to meet 
There will he a mandatory meeting Wednesday, March 4 for all those interested in running f<)r class office. Copies of the rules and in· formation on the procedures for get· ting on th1: ballot will be available. The meeting will be held at the Stu· dent Government Offices on the second floor of LaFortune at 7:30 p.m. 
Hard Folk Rock & Blue Grass 
Today's Quote
Check hall bulletl n boards 
Life must be lived forwards, but
all

" In The Ballroom " 
can only be understood backwards.
in dorms for times of Masses Call)pUS 
Sorrm Kterkegaard

·----Admission $2.00--­
miniStry 

•. 

The Observer Wednesday, March 4, 1981 -page 8 

Losing luster 

NBA headed for tnore trouble 
Long ago, fhe Board ofGovernors ofthe National Bas­ketball Association invented the idea that fans paid money to see their team score 120 points night after night. 
Tl}at may have been the case at one point in time, when fans were mesmerized by their amazing scoring ability. However, it has become clearly evident that the ordinary paying customer is disillusioned with the game, evidenced by declining attendances and televi­
sion ratings. Undoubtedly, the dollar doesn't go as far today, but which started before the foul occurred, succeeds in that is an illegitimate excuse for the lack of paying cus-making a goal, the goal shall count even ifthe ball leaves 
tamers. People like to be entertained, and when it com-the player's hands after the whistle blows. The player es to sports, money seldom enters into the picture. In must, in the opinion of the officials, be throwing for a fact it would be a fair gamble to say that ifyour typical goal or starting an effort at the time the foul occurs.' 
sport:; f2natic had to choose between buying tickets to a Just one·question -why? The defensive aspect of Saturday aftrnoon rivalry, or a dozen roses for his wife, professional basketball has been undermined as it is, well I'm afraid the wife would be left home crying. with the 24-second clock and the freedom to take extra 
A~other lame excuse is that the average white steps with the balL Now it has been left up to the judg­middle-class man doesn't want to pay hard-earned ment ofthe officials whether the player is 'throwing for money to watch a game dominated by blacks. a goal or starting an effort.' With the recent popularity 
The happiest day in my life would be ifa professional of the taller guards, starting an effort for the basket by organization came to this viscinity, though extremely "Magic" Johnson may be immediately after a defensive unlikely. If the team was made up of orange colored rebound. men but could play basketball like a"Magic"Johnson or At the moment, 12 of the 23 teams in the NBA may a Julius Erving, who cares about the pigment composi-""qualify for postseason play. Often teams that make the tion oftheir skin? playoffs possess won-lost records hovering aroung 
Ifthis wer"e the case, then many ofthe major colleges .500. It's no wonder the football and baseball playoffs including DePaul and UCLA, who have lineups are viewed by more people on television. When playoff dominated by blacks, would suffer attendance time comes around for these two sports, the audience is deficiencies. However, DePaul and UCLA manage to fill assured of seeing the best in that particular sport, for the Rosemont Horizon and the Pauley Pavillion, that particular year. respectively, for all oftheir home games. 
The National Basketball Association is faced with
The NBA plays many more ganres, but when profes­many problems. But forget about any rule changes, at
sional games are continually played before half-filled least while Larry O'Brien remains commissioner of the
houses, there must be serious problems. 
NBA.

Simply, the problem lies inherently in the rules, the "We are not going to tinker with the game," says
interpretation ofthose rules, and the NBA brass. To sug­O'Brien. It's fine to fight for what one believes in, but
gest eliminating the 24-second clock in the NBA is when it comes to being destructive to the great game of
futile, because it cannot and will not ever happen. A basketball, then some kind of concessions have to at least be considered. 
O'Brien claims that "our games are getting higher ratings than tennis, golf, hockey and soccer." That may be true, yet professional basketball is expected to get higher ratings than these "minor" sports, because net­works pay more for the game ofbasketball to be aired. 
Ron Alridge, a T.V. -radio critic for the Chicago 
defense. Such an allowance Tribune, stated the situation best when he said;"Pro basketball needs major reform. Too many teams are allowed into the playoffs, there's too much run-and-gun play and not enough visible coaching strategy. Until the NBA faces up to these realities and quits hiding under a blanket of surveys, statistical manipulations, and rationalizations, its popularity will continue to struggle 
to the basket that and its status as a major national sport will remain in jeopardy." 

The days of the intense rivalries seem to have vanished like in the 1960's when Philadelphia and Bos­ton games were always intense. Taking over is the leniency ofenforcing the rules ofthe game that has vir­tually reached absurdity. Professional basketball is clearly headed down a one-way street -the wrong way. 


Knight, Purdue resu-me feud 
in Student·Activities Office 
due Friday, March 6 
received several letters in response to his earlier comments on the "Purdue mentality." 
He said he and his secretary had a hard time deciphering them be­cause'ofthe poor writing, and about the only thing they could make out were "four-letter words" -typical of what he said were some taunts aimed at the Hoosiers when they played at Mackey Arena in February. 
"I'm afraid I did (see the television show)," Purdue Athletic Director George King said on Monday. "I made a phone call to the commis­sioner (Wayne Duke) after the show and he said they were putting this situation into study this morning and he'd get back to me. He assured me they were starting the review.'' 
King, with the backingofPurdue's Faculty Athletic Affairs Committee, ftled a formal complaint under the Big Ten code regarding un­sportsmanlike conduct after the first incident with Knight. 
"It's all part of the same scene," King said. "As I explained to Bruce (Ramey ofthe Lafayetfe Journal and Courier) last Friday, it's harmful and derogatory to the university and to people in general. It's all in the right hands now. 
"I suggested that he (Duke) take a iook at the tape (of the television show)," King said. 
Contacted by the Journal and Courier, Duke said: "We are looking into the matter. Period. That's all I'm going to say. I'm not going to com­ment further." 
The earlier charges, in which Knight said the Purdue band and cheerleaders led the Mackey Arena crowd in chanting an obscenity, was made three weeks ago at a press con­ference. He summoned newsmen to defend Indiana sophomore guard 
lsiah  Thomas,  who  had  been  
accused  of  throwing  a  "sucker  
punch"  at  Purdue's  Roosevelt  

Barnes in the first Indiana-Purdue game in Bloomington. 
On his Feb. 8 television show, Knight replayed game fJ.!ms to clear Thomas and to point out incidents of rough tactics by Purdue players. The next day, at the news conference, Knight said, "Any accusations from Purdue (about Thomas) are ab­solutely and utterly ridiculous," ad­ding that they came from "a Purdue mentality which I've grown very familiar with over the I 0 years I've been here." 


The Observer 

Irish slam dunk specialist Orlando Woolridge will face Mark Aguirre and the DePaul Blue Demons in their annual Midwest grudge match this Sunday afternoon at the Rosemont Horizon. (photo byjohn Macor) 
By MICHAEL OLENIK 
Sports Writer 
As another memorable Irish bas­
ketball season winds down to a 
much deserved NCAA Tournament 
bid, there is one player who has 
convincingly combined an air of 
sentiment with that of intensity. 
Keeping the emotionally packed 
Dayton and Virginia games rooted 
deep in his mind, Orlando Wool­
ridge anxiously awaits the rematch 
bl'tween rival DePaul and the en­
suing road that will hopefully lead 
Notre Dame to Philadelphia. 
An Important stepping stone to this difficult trek is of course this Sunday's nationally televised game with the Blue Demons in Chicago. Recognizing the revenge factor along with the tradition involved with this series, Woolridge seems 
more than ready to travel back to 
what must be one of his all-time 
favoritt• arenas. 
"DePaul has always been a big rival, so you know we'll be pretty fired up. They're very explosive, so we'll have to take tht·m out of their tt·mpo and slow things down to ours." 
Asked the significance of playing 
what will undoubtedly be a hard­
t(Hight game just bcfor, '1e tourna­
ment, Woolridgl· henefits. 
"I had no idea that I'd be at a school like Notre Dame. I wasn't in the situation to have many major colleges coming in after me." 
Under the guidance of the per­ceptive Digger Phelps, Woolridge has improved as much as or more than any of the players who have been tutored by the Notre Dame coach. And he is not soon to forget. "Its because of him that I am in this situation today. He has taught me a lot during the last four years, and I have nothing but respect for him." 
With a fabulous college career al­most behind him, there seems to be 
I 
• • .Coac/Jes 
. ·-------·-··--------­
defenses, or make a substitution, or 
•caB a time-out. I'm tired ofit." 
plaints  111d •·  '11ing suggestion~."  
he sap  
Drk~ :il ex1  ·~  11' • regret over  
the  lost friet.·  '1'  with  .\1cGuire.  

"It's true we'n-;. ·wn a1 _" ht• ad­mits. "AI has h1., l;n .>rites. and I'm ap­parently not one of them. Why should I put up with that? He's al­ways saying I should change zone 
Packer refuses to comment on the criticis,.· hut McGuire defend,; NBC'~> hroadc.ht~. and h: own,,,· :.. 
1 Wednesday, March 4, 1981-page 9 
Grapefruit play begins 
Fidrych tnakes cotneback try 
LAKELAND, Fla. (AP) -This spring, as he pitches strikes during batting practice in Marchant Stadium, there is new hope for Mark Fidrych. Last year, for the first time since 1976, Fidrych actually pitched. 
His physical miseries, and his at­tempt to overcome them, are as well-documented as the sudden success which made him a star. 
It was anything but awesome, as he had once been, but it was a start 
back. And  now,  as  he sits in  the  
Tigers'  clubhouse,  Fidrych  is  en­ 
couraged.  

"I think I can do it," he said. "I think I can pitch again like I did in 1976. If I'm healthy, I don't see any reason why not. 
"Last year, I was inconsistent, but I Mill managed to get in over 150 in­nings. It's been a long time sine~ I've thrown that much." 
It is, he now believes, simply a matter of finding himself. The years of pushing, pulling and prodding on his arm have not affected his ability. 
"If anything, it's probably helped make my arm stronger," Fidrych said. "It's just a matter of getting back in the groove, of finding the right release point. 
"I just need to get oiled up again. I'm like a rusty machine." 
He will work at his own pace, as he has always done, under the watchful eye of Tigers' pitching 
Last chance 
Woolridge looks to tourney 
"I really think that this game is at a one last accomplishment to be at­good time. To us, it will be just like a tained by Woolridge and his fellow tournament game, and since we are seniors--a berth in the final game at just beginning to peak, we're the Philadelphia Spectrum. There is looking forward to it." little doubt that such a goal is far 
The limelight that the "Tree" will from impossible, as many consider be entering once again this weekend the 1981 class the most talented is still an excitingexperience for this ever, and Woolridge hopes that each 6-9 senior, as it wasn't long ago that team member realizes the oppor­he was home in Louisiana con­tunity that lays ahead. templating exactly what he'd be "We know we have the talent to doing after he finished high school. do it , so we what we have to do is Presently regarded as one of the execute. It will take a little extra ef­most promising pro prospects in the fort to get it done, but it sure would country, Woolridge was at one time be worth it." uncertain whether he could even Coming from a man who ex­play major college ball. That situa­perienced the Final Four as a fresh­
tion was clarified after Notre Dame man, it would be difficult for me to showed interest, and the Mansfield doubt his word. native soon found his way to South Bend. 
,_,.,_._ -­coach Roger Craig. Unlike many others here, he has no worries about making the club. 
"If he's healthy, then he goes north with us, it's as simple as that," Detroit manager Sparky Ande~::son said. "There's no use beating around the bush about it." 
Anderson knows that may be un­fair to some other prospects, but it's a price he's willing to pay. 
"He hasn't got any options left, we can't send him to Evansville. They wouldn't take a chance of outright-' ing him and letting another club pick him up. 
"Can you imagine what would happen if he came back to Detroit with another club? After all the time and money they've spent on him, it 
continuedfrom page 10 
burner for six months. I want to get in shape and have a good season. I need it." 
Jackson acknowledged that Steinbrenner had insisted that he be in camp hy March 1 and that he had probably left the owner with the im­pressionthat he would obey. 
Jackson, a commentator for ABC­TV's filmed Superstars show, described a hectic airplane travel schedule that went from OakJand to Florida to New York to Connecticut, back to Florida, to Hawaii, New York again and home. 
"l was home four days last 
GJ•~@
ALL YOU CAN EAT SPECIALS 4.:30 P.M. TO 10:00 p-,M. 
SIWill11 
lnchides Speci&lltall&n sauce, dinner 881&d, French bread & butter *2.75 
E.., Qlkl\&\' 
Wednelder 

Our own cri9p fried chicken,
I Sundar *3.75
choice of potatoes, roll & butter 
Nlte l'lllll'lll 
Elferr 

Home batter dipped oce.tperch,
Frfdar 

H:ench friee. slaw. roll& butter *3.25 
Nlte 

52820 U.S. 31 NO., So~th Bend • 209 E. Ire1and, South Bend 921 W. McKinley, Mishawaka 
--,.--•----,.--,,.--•--•----,_--­
Get Motiuatedl Applications Auailable 
~ 

JOt positions in next year's Student Union
9 t 

_n_.,....._..._..,_,.~.._..._..._..~.. 
·? 
~~~ 
•• 1'
V?• 
4 

would be silly to give up on him 
now." 
For his part, Fidrych will do whatever he's asked to do. "I know I've got to make this ballclub, but I don't think there's anybody here who pitches better than l do when I'm right," he said. · 
"I just want to stay with the club," Fidrych said. "Ifshining shoes would help me make this staff, then I'd shine shoes. 
"But I want to start. And I want to be a nine-inning pitcher. I don't want to be labeled as a guy who can only pitch five innings, or six, and then you've got to bring somebody in for him. I wailt to be able to pitch all the way." 
.Reggie 

month," he said. 
Reminded of Steinbrenner's ad­monition that he must reassess his priorities, Reggie replied: "I must think of my future, when I'm through with baseball. I'm training myself to be a broadcaster." 
Jackson, in his renegotiations, is expected to ask for a deal that would be commensurate with the J I.'5 million-a-year, I 0-year contract signed by Dave Winfield, the Yankees' newest jewel. 
Michael gave Jackson relief from the day's base-runningdrills and told him to get some hitting pratlce. Reggie went to a secondary field to hit against a pitching machine. 
Social Commissioner Academic Commissioner Contemporary Arts Commissioner Concerts Commissioner Services Commissioner Publicity Manager 
ofanalysis. 
Also -Accounting majors tJjr.llications auailable 
"You have to look at the: game a~.: 
fo,r Comptrollers
whole," he says. "It isn't fair to take a couple of lines out of context and 
Applications may be picked up in the Student Untv•· ;)ffices, 2nd floor 
say that we arc totally negative. We are on the air for two hours, and 
LaFortune and are due Friday, March 6 F t' 11 7757
· or any ques 1ons ca
overall I think we are fair." 

J 

----------------------------~~ 

The Observer Wednesday, March 4, 1981 -page 10 
Offthe field 
Orsini finds life after football 
"I sat back and said I've got to about all the basketball no-shows,
By KELLY SULLIVAN AssistantSports Editor change my priorities," remembers however." Orsini. "I went to Coach Devine and The 24-year-old Orsini faces a asked him where I best fit in, be­monumental chore in trying to deal
Steve Orsini, Notre Dame's new cause I wanted to contribute in any with ticket requests from the large
ticket manager, probably never ex­
way." contingent of Notre Dame fol­
pected to be back at his alma mater Orsini found his niche with the 
lowers. 

as an employee. Just about a month Irish when he was asked to unite the "I'm hearing from friends I never
ago,.the former Irish fullback, who specialty teams. He was elected cap­knew I had," he laughs.
was specialty team captain on the tain of those squads, which played a But the former Flanner resident,
1977 national championship foot­major part in the Cotton Bowl vic­who will play for Coach Gerry
ball squad, was working for a New tory over Texas his senior season. Faust's Bookstore Basketball team
York accounting firm, where he had· "That was the greatest experience this spring, obviously enjoys being
been employed as a C.P.A. for the I had at Notre Dame," he relates. back in a competitive atmosphere
past three years. "I'm not sure anything could top it." again.
"I just got tired of pushing num­The three-time monogram win­"I'd like to wait a year before I
bers around," explained Orsini. ner is now in his second stint with decide the best method for handling
"When this job opened up, I jumped Irish athletics, although this time the pressure of this job. I'll go
at the chance, because I love dealing he's running things off the field in­through the first round of the war
with people." 
stead ofon. and get a few bruises," he says with aSudden changes like that have 
"I look at Notre Dame sports dif­smile, "and then next year I'll come
become a way oflife for Orsini. The ferently now that I'm an employee of up fighting."
Hummelstown, Pa. native never ex­the University," he says. "But I still Orsini doesn't plan to fight the ap­
pected to play football for Notre see the same spirit that was here proach he inherited from his
Dame, either. 
when I played." predecessor, former ticket manager
"I originally signed a letter of in­Orsini's main task as ticket 
Mike Busick. 

tent to play for Villanova, because I 
manager and promotions director "He (Busick) had a very good sys­was brought up around Pennsyl­noted "and I
vania football," says Orsini, whose will be to channel student en­tem going," Orsini, father and one brother played foot-· thusiam into sports other than foot­don't plan on changing much or 
doing anything radically different
ball and basketball.

ball for Penn State, while another 
right now."

"My job includes getting the
brother competed for Temple. "I students interested in the hockey 
Becoming Notre Dame's ticket
wasn't even going to come out and program, women's athletics, and 
keeper is enough ofa change for the 
see Notre Dame, but I'd heard so 
time being.

minor sports. I am a little concerned
much about it I decided to visit.". 
"As soon as I saw NO I fell in love with it," he continued. "I had to be a part of it. I called my parents and asked ifthey minded me going out of state, and my dad confessed that he'd always wanted to go to Notre 
Belles' Works recovers from injury 
Dame and ifI'd be happy there it was fine." More unexpected decisions By ED KONRADY before I could start walking again, players," Dallessio continues,"and I and is always giving me support. If I 
think that when she develops the
followed the one to play for the Sports Writer so I decided to wait until summer. have a lack of confidence, she's al­Irish. A standout in high school, Or­
"Sometimes I can't run asfast or confidence in herself she needs, she ways right there, saying 'Kim, you is going to be very, very tough and
sini planned on being a starter for "I have a bone spur m my left jump as high if it gets bit or can do this', and if I'm not doing Notre Dame after a superb spring his knee. The doctor said that its bumped. That's whyI wear the knee difficult to stop. something right, she says 'Kim, try it 
freshman year, when he won the probably from an injury I suffered pad, to take away some ofthe im­"Kim has improved quite a bit this way.' Mary's just always behind Hering Award as the most improved a long time ago. It got hitbefore the pact when it gets bit. Sometime I over the summer, and she's con­me, and I think that she deserves a canjustoverlook it. I get used to the tinued to steadily improve. At the lot of credit for my improvement."
back. Those plans changed when a season started, t and that really ag­pain, and sometimes I don't even beginning of the season, and a good Works' improvement over the
player named Jerome Heavens took gravated it. I could have an opera­
notice it." portion throughout, she has lacked past few weeks has earned her a
the field. tion, but it would take six weeks The speaker is Kim Works, a soph­confidence in herself, and starting role on the Belles' squad, omore basketball player for Saint sometimes expected too much from but Dallessio doesn't believe start­Mary's. Works will be starting herself ing is as important as being able to 
~ 
JUNIOR CLASS ( CLASS OF '82) ­ 
Weekend In Chf:caKo April 3, 4, 5 I s5o.oo I Four (4) people per room Due March 4, 5 in LaFortune 7:00pm GUARANTEED TO BE A GOOD TIME  

against Taylor University, when the "I keep tellingher to be patient, to contribute to the team. Belles travel to Anderson to com­be satisfied to do the best you can "Kim is starting right now, but pete in the Division III state tourna­right now. She's just a sophomore, whether she starts or comes off the ment this weekend. Against and has three more years left. The bench, she has the ability to really Indiana/Purdue University at Fort other night, against Grace College, give the team a spark as far as getting Wayne and Manchester Collegeshe Kim had 19 points and 14 rebounds. rebounds and scoring inside," says yanked down a dozen rebounds That is indictive ofwhat Kim Works Dallessio, "She's very good on the each game. Each game. can do, and it's just a matter of fast break. Kim gets downcourt very 
Works is a transfer from Tennesee having confidence in herself, and quickly. State University, and · before this not trying too hard. "But I see her, whether starting or 
year, she played basketball only "Ifshe relaxes, goes out, and plays not, as being able to help our inside during her junior and senior years in her game," predicts Dallessio, "I game. I think, eventually, she will highschool. think those double figure become a very consistent scorer. scoring/rebounding games will hap­
"Kim is very talented," says Belles' Kim just has to refine her game a pen more often."
Head CoachJerry Dallessio. "For her little more, smooth out her moves, size (5-9), she's extremely quick, Works, as usual, refuses to take and work on her shooting touch," he credit for improving. says.
and that's what gives her an ad­"IfI have improve<\, at all over the "Kim works very hard at practice.
vantage against a lot of the post players that she goes up against. season, it is because of (teammate) It's just that sometimes she doesn't Mary Bayless," claims Works. "Mary realize how good she is."
"She is more aggressive than most 

.. :: :: .· . 

.} . lfi. ~~ ·.
:~ :: .: 

i. 
Mandatory Meeting for All Interested in Running for Off Campus Commissioner or CLASS OFFICE 
Wednesday, March 4 7:30pm 
Student Government Offices 

really knows a lot about the game, 
Reggiejoins Yankee spring camp 
FORT LAYDERDALE, Fla. (AP)­Bergeschsaid he had asked Reggie "What's the big deal?" asked Reggie to pay the fine on the spot, even Jackson after he breezed into the before dressing to work out. 
New York Yankees' spring training ''Reggie told me he may take the 
headquarters Tuesday, two days late fine to the Players Association as a 
and facing not only a $5,000 fine but grievance and he said he wanted to 
the wrath ofGeorge Steinbrenner. talk to George first. 
The superstar flew into town "That is his prerogative. But I 
overnight from his home in Carmel, made clear that George is serious. 
Calif. Shortly after a closed-door The fine sticks!" 
meeting with Manager Gene Mic­Jackson was told that the fine was 
hael and Yankees vice-president Bill pro-rated on his salary, bonus and 
Bergesch, he was at his No.44 lock­othe facets of his five-year, S3­
er. million contract which comes up for 
In the closed-door conference, renewal at the end ofthis season. 
Bergesch handed Jackson a letter "It' ''~"-rr": I• hn-'S the ball club. 
reiterating the words of a telegram I wo... jh; }py to put my 
sent Sunday, notifying him that he contra< ·,._ on the back 
was beingfined $2,500 for ever) day 
,page9
absent. 

------------------···'-'"'····•,._. .. ~~n,.,...... -· 
/ 
Notre D3.lile's Women's Trackctub has a home The ND women's fast pitch softoall team has meet Friday at 3 p.m. against Saint Mary's College. Last Friday 
begun workouts for this season, Monday through Thursday, from 3:30 Rosemary Desloge placed second in the two-mile run in a meet at 
to "i:30 on Green field. New players arc welcome. For more informa­Eastern Michigan. Mary O'Connor was third in the 880-yard run and 
tion contact Karen Alig at 1263. Patrice Murray was third in the three-mile run. Rachael Allen captured fourth in the 60-yard dash and Barbara Jacobs was fourth in the 440­yard dash. The Non-Varsity Athletic Indoor Track Meet will be held on Thursday, March "i on the indoor track of the ACC fieldhouse. The field events (high jump and long jump) will begin at 7 Bookstore basketball commissioner Rob Simari has 
p.m. while the running events ( 60-yard low hurdles, mile run, 60-yard announn·d that he is looking for people interested in the administra­
dash, 440-yard run, 880-yard run and 8-lap relay) will begin at 7:30 tion of the fabled tournament. Freshmen arc especially urged to con­
p.m. Entrants for all events must check in at 7 p.m. tact Simari at 283-8767. Simari also revealed that the tournament sign-ups will return to their traditional March I Oth date, to co-incide 
with Austin Carr's birthday. This year's tournament will once again include 384 teams. 
The Swift Swishers won their second straight Saint Mary's intramural basketball title last night at the Angela Athletic Facility, defeating The Plague 3"i-28. The Swishers, coached by Notre Dame law student Pete Walsh and captained by Cindy Schwenk rolled 
The Notre D3Jlle-Saint Mary's sailingciuo to their championship behind the scoring ofEileen Murphy and Annie meeting is scheduled for tonight at 6:30 in 203 O'Shaughnessy Hall. Waechter, who scored 12 and 10 points respectively. lead the 
Irish DePaul /Jiue 
--------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
her put 11 With an 1ce pick? M1ke 

.\II Cl.t .. ~tfH•tl ,HIS lllUSI hP f~\ 61'11~11 b't 4 45 pIll  IWtl tidy!. j..HI.,)I 10 ltlti  
lh">ut1 111 will\ 11 lhr~ .td ·~run  Th~ Observur ullt\ t:' ~viii dL.l ttpl cl.hStltt."lb  
Mtiiiii.H  rhr,ltllJh Fndit\  I 0 Ol) il fll  IO!) 00 IJ Ill  ~\II I ldSb•ftrt(l!lo 'II liS I be  
jJII' p,tld  t'l'llt'l Ill pt!f':H)Il 111 lhi<~IIYil llh! rl1dli  

1--­ 
[ NOTICES PROFESSIONAL TYPING Term papers. theses. etc Tape transcriptiOn. Lut year"s same low prices. All work guaranteed aardvark automatic solu­tions 289-6753. DON'T WALK ALONE Ill GET AN ESCORT Ill Student Escort Serv~ce, on-call Sun to Thurs. 7 to M1dn1ght Call6263 (OBUD) At the NO Library 10 to lt ·45 pm. All student Volunteers. USE IT !IIIII DON'T BE AFRAID TO CALLI USED & OUT-OF-PRINT BOOKS bought, sold. searched ERASMUS BOOKS. Tues-Sunday. t2·6 1027 E. "Nayne (One block south ot Eddy· Jelferson intersection) MORRISSEY LOAN FUND Emergency loans tor NO students, $20­$200, one percent Interest Due 1n one month Open t1.30-t2:30. M-F 1n the basement of LaFortune F~nal day tor semors to apply IS Friday, Merch t3. Need ride to Detroit-Southfield the weekend of March 6 Call D1ck 1464. NEED AIDE FOR 2 OR 4 GIRLS. TO FLORIDA AREA. PAEFEAABL Y FT. LAUDERDALE AREA. OVER SPRING BREAK WILL SHARE USUAL PLEASE CALL LESLIE OR MAUREEN AT 7936. INSTANT CASH PAID FOR CLASS RINGS $20-$65 OR MORE. WE MAKE HOUSE CALLS 255-2402. WE ARE AWAITING YOUR DECISION PLEASE FORWARD AS SOON AS POS­SIBLE.  LOST: BLUE DOWN COAT SATURDAY NIGHT AT 9t4 SOUTH BEND AVE. BLACK HAT IN ONE POCKET IF FOUND, PLEASE CALL MIKE AT t6t5. LOST: SILVER MEDAL ON CHAIN LEFT IN ANGELA ATHLETIC CENTER ON WED FEBRUARY 25. Specs: double s1ded t 1sacred heart o1Jesus2) Mary w1th child, latin script, family heir­loom. CALL 8477, GENEROUS REWARD UPON SAFE RETURN. LOST: 3 hand grenades wh1le working food line 1n North Dining Hall. Please call Chuck Mason at t7t5. [ FOR RENT_:] FOR RENT -UGLY DUCKLING RENT­A-CAR FROM $7 95 A DAY AND 7 CENTS A MlLE. PHONE 259-UG L Y FOR RESERVATIONS AVAILABLE NEXT SCHOOL YEAR 2 FIVE BEDROOM HOUSES 234 2626. For Rent Large, partially furnished, lour bedroom house. Alarm system available. call283·8702. Need nde to Jersey tor break W1ll supply necesSities Call Don 6718 NEED RIDE TO PHOENIX. WILL SHARE USUAL CALL MARK 3303 I need a ride to Denver at Break Galt John at 1 t 77.  Need ride to Boston tor spring break, will share expenses etc.. call Jill at 4t· 4960 Need ride to New York C1ty tor spr1ng break. will share expenses etc.. call Jamce at 41-4960 Need ride to PHILADELPHIA OR SOUTH JERSEY. Call8t14. RIDE needed to NY, NJ, CT area. Can leave3·103·11, 232-3656. Need a ride or riders to Columbus or Central Ohio lor Spring Break? The Columbus Area Ride Board Will at­tempt to match those w1th room with those who need rides. To s1gn up tor a ride or to otter a ride. caltJam1eat t336. Need Ride to North Carolina. anywhere near Charlotte. Can leave 3·12 or alter. Call277-3579. tam driVIng a truck to Austin. Texas tor break. Will haul luggage. etc. to Texas or any point along the way. CALL RC 1738-t758. NEED RIDE FOR 2 TO CLEVELAND CAN LEAVE FRIDAY. WILL SHARE USUAL CALL JOHN AT 3008. DESPERATELY NEED RIDE TO N.J. WILLPAYUSUALCALLJOHNAT t818 OR FRANK AT 3030 NEED 2 RIDES TO HOUSTON AREA WILL SHARE USUAL CAN LEAVE AF­TER tt AM ON 13TH OF MARCH, CALL 3049. NEED RIDE FOR ONE RETURNING FROM FT. LAUDERDALE FOR SPRING BREAK. CALL 1161  NEED RIDE TO EDINA FOR SPRING BREAK. CALL t279. Joe. I'm a tunny. Why do you hate Goop? Moe (The above was a parody of those im· mature anal onfices in Keenan, e.g. Montgomery Ward and Moe, who, tor free, Iiiier the personal column of that forgettable travesty, the Keenan Rag. with their worthless babbling about their own boring D.B.·ISh lives. You tall under clueless. whatever that means ...... ) JANE-0 DOES NOT HATE SCOOP. SCOOP, WHY DO YOU HATE JANE-0? Nobody IS uglier than Jell Jelters. OPEN A DOOR TO SLF OPEN A DOOR TO SLF OPEN A DOOR TO SLF OPEN A DOOR TO SLF every night this week LOVELEY is not.llllll PETE LOVELEY torUMOC J&ne-o, don't call me anymore. DON'T call me anymore. DON'T CALL me anymore. DON'T CALL ME ANYMOREttl thank you. yours in phone bill poverty. lim Happy Birthday Tom T1mm1ns Ill Bam Bam (Space-Whenever): Now th1s one IS realty lor you II HAPPY BIRTHDAY II Can you handle a couple of OM's tonight?? So glad we met, THANKS tor  MARDI GRAS II MARDI GRAS II -NEW ORLEANS STYLE· JUNIORS Weekend in Ch1cago April3.4,5 Sign-up Wed. and Thurs. LaFortune 7-8 p m. JUNIOR WEEKEND IN CHICAGO BE THERE Ill! Cmderella, We found your black high-heel shoe after Dillon's SYM. Call Dave t845 or Ken 6664 to try It on. Dear Patty, Your duck maiming has been found out, thanks to Cardinal Newman's tes­timony. and other pelly aquatic crimes are suspected But don't despatr, you can plead ein kromoson zu vie!" Hap­PY Birthday from West Quad friends J.J.H. Remember me? I haven't heard from you tn awhile How about gtving me a call sometime? C. TERRI, THANKS FOR LETTING ME USE YOUR BED ON FRIDAY. t HOPE THIS DOESN'T GET OUT TO YOUR CRUSH"IIII LOVE YA, THE MAN SPECIAL REPORT: Captain Axe has been slain... scuttlebutt from a Tholian garbage scow trolling the Debellan Sector has it that Axe was killed '" a bloody duel, but deta1ls are sketchy The founding lather of Moose Control was dead on arrival at Star StatiOn No. 5. Rumors about the Identity ol Axe's toe could not be confirmed... More details to come.  PROFORUMOC A Close Look At The FACTS ' Will Conv~nce You HARPO 'For UMOC!t I i UMOC favorite: John The Reptile" Sa1gh w1ll pay any girl $500 to put up With his scaly lace and go to sen1or tor­mal wtlh him. When is Retectlon Night at Sen1or Bar? The Reptile" eats toecheese and bel· lybutton fuzz. Sa1gh tor UMOC Studs? ol452 Zahm. We'll call anytime! Remember· Lizzy Berdan took an a• The foxes ol2 South COFFEEHOUSE COFFEEHOUSE COFFEEHOUSE COFFEEHOUSE LaFortune Student Coffeehouse GRAND OPENING FRIDAY Ill ZIBBYTEBO ZIBBYTEBO ZIBBYTEBO ThiS weekend In the Coffeehouse. Nancy R. (Now nobody will know It's you, Ms Ryan) My apprec1at1on tor the con­tinental cu1sme, not to ment1on the company, cannot be expressed properly in words. Maybe I can think of something else WJMJr. When h1s face was on lire. who's mot·  

PROFESSIONAL TYPING Conven1ent being my friend II II out 
Need ride to Dallas lor break. Call John Gurdak'slll Gurdak's back·UMOC 1981Thanks 0 WHAT HAS 4 EYES AND NO HAIR to Notre Dame 272-7623 [ TICKETS
H1ggins at 8553 or 1715 and leave a The Pebbles A. THOM ENGLERT THE ONLY 
message.IMPROVE YOUR GRADES! Research Some more fuel lor that tire???lll CHOICE FOR UMOCtlll M1ke Gurdak Oooh so UGLY IIcatalog-306 pages -t0.278 descriptive Need 2 DePaul tix badly. Money no ob·
Needed. R1de to Houston tor SpringliStings · Rush$ t 00 (refundable). Box tect. Call Rob 4443. 
HI. JEAN. Meryw1n is a SURE WIN tor UMOC. 
break. Smce I rece1ved no response to Daryl Dawk~ns: ELEPHANTS NEVER 25097C. Los Angeles. 90025 (2t3) 477­
my last plea, 1 w11t now share the FORGET
HELPI Please, I must get a ride to TO SAMPSON AND MANY OTHERS,6228 unusual" Call Kathy. (4t) 4291. 
Florida tor spring break. Wilt share the HAIR WAS A SYMBOL OF STRENGTH usual. Call Paul at 3682. IF THIS IS TRUE, THOM ENGLERT IS A Alders needed to Iowa on Friday March AN TOSTAL MASS ASSASSIN IS COM· 
Need two rides to Ft. Lauderdale Area 6 Ca11Cmdyat4t-5792.lNG 
TRUE WEAKLING. THOM FOR UMOC over Spring Break. Will share usual. PERSONALS ..and Lowe Ilim1ted no. ol players Call Cathy 4077 SMC HI TO THE C-MONSTESIII

Joe Lombardi tor UMOC, a true greasy BETSY -Is there room tor me alter KT 1talian.
s1gn ups--Sun , March 8 
8.30-tO 30 p.m. LaFortune Ballroom NEED 2 RIDES TO FT LAUDERDALE, W1th gasoline at $1.55 a gallon, you BobbyZa.
-Jeff

$3 lee (at s1gn up) • FLA AREA OVER SPRING BREAK need all the riders you can get! Please, I What's your bag? We haven 1 seen CALL KATHY 4077 (SMC). need a ride to Northern Jersey (right of you, e1thertWILL the student who Hey SCRIB, tust two more days lett unt1l 1-80) or Allentown, PA area. Would like PHOTOGRAPHED the U.C.L.A the b1g dayt 6-B NEED RIDE HOME TO FLORIDA FOR to leave as early as possible. March tt CHEERLEADERS and the N.D. BAG·or 12. Call M1ke at 4579. 
BREAK. Call David 287·6986. 
Go Gonzo I More. morel

ILOST/FOUND I 
PIPER please call Brendan at 232·8931 Black Waters"·· 
ltust thought thai you'd want peopleNEEDED!! 1 ride to NORTH CAROLINA JANE·O, 

K De tame. how bout showang up at LOST-Camera-Wednesday February over SPRING BREAK Will share ALL WHY DO YOU HATE SCOOP? 
other than those en your sectton to 

north d1n1ng hall some lunchtime? 25 Please call277-7695 Desperate I DRIVING AND EXPENSES. Call M1ke at IF YOU LIVE IN NEW ORLEANS. HAVE know that you're not only harmless 
BEEN IN NEW ORLEANS, OR JUST when you're drunk, you're harmlesst424 THANKS!! Ann Landers says: 
DILLON STILL No 1 LOST GREEN NURSING NOTEBOOK WISH YOU WERE IN NEW ORLEANS, when you're sober. 
Have a problem? Can't sleep? Can't THEN COME TO THE NEW ORLEANS Love, Glenda 
work? Can't? Killed anyone recently? CLUB'S FIRST ANNUAL MARDI GRAS IN 203 0 SHAUGHNESSY ON TUES· Desperately need ride to Ph1lly or OBSERVER REPORTERS; another Constipated? Fall down and go boo­
DAY PLEASE CALL 4486 (SMC) OR South Jersey lor spring break W11t act1on-packed meot1ng tomght at6·30.
(no gambling, thiS IS the real thing) Steve,
RETURN TON D. LOST & FOUND share usual. Call Fran 8559, anyt1me boo? Be there
BALL, TO BE HELD THIS FRIDAY. FOR Although you're probably too busy to Well. all you have to do 1s GET MORE INFO CONTACT MIKE -8710 read thiS, I just wanted you to know ICOUNSELING I 
Lost on 2·22 1n Angela one Spidel gold HELP I Please. 1must get ride to Florida JOANIE McCURDY FOR UMOC DROP
OR JOHN -· 87t4 NO LATER THAN was th1nk1ng of you. Good luck on all
watch It found, please call 4332. lor spring break. Will share the usual. OFF DONATIONS AT 3tt B P JOAN
THURSDAY. your tests. Hope your week goes well. Reward Call Paul at 3682. WILL MAKE YOU GROAN 
Love, Mary Jeff Jolters IS very ugly SENIOR FORMAL REGISTRATION LOST. Notebook tell'" Math Bldg after Need Alders to CALIFORNIA Share SENIOR FORMAL REGISTRATION 

B1o test Tuesday Return to 305 Sor1n Gas. FREE bed and board. x8420 NEED RIDE TO FLORIDA , preferably H1 Bruce. or call 8542 Ft. Lauderdale area. lor 4 g~rls, will 0. What's the tavonte Children's game
THIS WEEK ONLY I 

DO YOU KNOW SOMEONE DRIVING share usual. We wouldn't mmd split­Mary Frances and Kink, '"the Yukon?
THIS WEEK ONLY! 

LOST ONE OPAL RING IN ANTIQUE FROM MILWAUKEE TO N.D 3-13 OR ting 1nto 2 and 2 So call if you have Do you ever read these? It so, stay A: Duck. Duck, Moose?' SETTING REWARDI!II IF FOUND, ANY WEEKEND? MY "FRIEND NEEDS A room tor two or tour. Ask tor LESLIE or tuned' (I told you last week anonymoose was PLEASE CALL MARY AT 4956 (SMC) RIDE. CALL 233-6068 OR 4t4·962-MAUREEN 7936 Die·D1e , the most prolific write'" the Yukon­
··-Lafortune and LeMons··· 
••• tt :30 to 1:00 ··• LOST HP32E calculator last lrtday RYAN VER BEAKMOES FOR UMOC anymore? beloved anonymoose I wonder where morn 11 found. call Brian at1773. THERE IS NO DOUBT he gets all those crayons.) 
8103. p.s. Why doesn't anyone ever call me that 1n tact was a submisSIOn from the 
DON'T MISS THE CELEBRATION!
NEED RIDE TO BUFFALO FOR BREAK. CAN LEAVE WED, CALL RAY 82t2 
CHAUTAUQUA IS COMING TO N.D. Moose Control LOST. A CANON 35mm CAMERA (Gill· NEED A DATE TONIGHT I Never spend 
NEED RIDE TO EXIT 8, OHIO
17) PROBABLY LEFT IN THE ACC. Three fun-loving sun worshippers another night alone I Send tor your in­ONLY THREE MORE DAYS! 
TURNPIKE (OR NEAR) ON THURS. 3-5THE PICTURES (AND THE CAMERA) DESPERATELY crave Fl. Lauderdale formation about our computerized OR FRI. 3·6. CALL 3212 AFTER ttHAVE GREAT VALUE TO ME •• rays. But first we need a rldef Wit/share dating service. For complete informa­
LIVE THIS WEEKEND Ill The dark curtain has been brushedREWARD--CALL MARY. 8085 driving & expenses. Can /eave anytime. tion and a computerized application 
LOOKING FOR RIDERS TO KC FOR At the Coffeehouse: back at last t Fear not, tor Control If travelling thai way, please call Molly, send $t .00 to· COMPUTERIZED 
SPRING BREAK. MUST SHARE watches -all •• not what It seems.
LOST A WOMAN S GOLD PEDAE Hannah or Ellery at8008. DATING SERVICE. BOX 240t, SOUTH DRIVING. GAS AND MAJOR REPAIRS Z1bbytebo Pressing bua1neas ... I must go. Have noWATCH WAS LOST ON FEB.27 NEAR BEND INDIANA, 466t4 CALL DR. CHUCK TYLER AT THE PINE J1m Stout-Mike Gorecki tear, all shall be explained In time. 
THE ACC REWARD IF FOUND! 
A1de1s needed to UU of IOWA 3-5. 
Hard Folk Rock & BluegrassPLEASE CALL 7942 Cathy 7927. Vinyl" Jelters tor UMOC. 
VALLEY HOSPITAL AT 3319. 


Sports 
NBC 'Coaches' 
Coaches criticize Billy and AI 
By SKIP DESJARDIN 
Sports Writer  
College  basketball  coaches  are  
becoming openly  critical  of  the  
commentary ofAI McGuire and Billy  
Packer during NBC telecasts oftheir  
sport.  
"Coaches around the country feel  
that AI and Billy have overdone it,"  
says  Notre  Dame's Digger Phelps.  
"What has happened with NBC col­ 
lege basketball coverage is that AI  
and Billy say, 'Let's see what either  
coach will not do, so we can make a  
judgment in the negative.'  
"I don't think that's fair  tO  the  
coaches and the teams involved.''  
Coach Lefty Driesell of Maryland  
is another coach who takes a dim  
view of the color commentators.  
"Those guys are on a big ego trip,"  
he says. "It's easy to coach from the  
broadcast  booth  there's  no  
pressure.  I'm getting tired of the  
negative things that they say."  
DePaul's  Ray Meyer points  out  
that college coaches have discussed  
among themselves their disappoint­ 
ment  over  McGuire  and  Packer's  
methods. Digger Phelps is just one ofa growing number of major college  
"Several  coaches  have  pointed basketball coaches who feel the Billy Packer-A/ McGuire banter on  
out to me the things that Digger has NBC's weekend hoop telecasts should be modified.  
said. Packer and McGuire have changed their objectivity, and the coaches don't like it.'' Driesell agrees that the pair arc looking at the games from the wrong viewpoint. "They aren't supposed to be coaching," he contends. "They  preaict what they think should go on in that situation because that real­ly isn't their situation." Meyer blames the television schedule for much ofthe problem. "The same teams are on TV all the time," he says. "They (McGuire and Packer) have said so many great  issue. "They aren't getting paid by the coaches, they are getting paid by the viewers. That is who they have to appeal to." McGuire says that he is troubled by the way college coaches who were once close friends have grown distant.  
should stick to announcing and stop trying to run the show. I liked the way Digger did the DePaul game  things about coaches and they can't say them anymore because that's repetitious. They have to look for  "I can see it," he says. "They are starting to avoid me, and some of them won't talk to me."  
against Marquette on TV. He told you what was going on and didn't try  differrent angles.'' McGuire concedes that Meyer's  Phelps and Driesell admit their feelings toward Packer and McGuire  
to second guess the coaches." Phelps feels McGuire and Packer are trying to coach the game as it is being played, and he takes excep­tion to that. "Sports commentators doing  criticisms are valid. "I can make al­most any game seem like the best one ever played," the former Mar­quette coach explains. "But you can't do that every week or you put everyone to sleep."  have cooled. Phelps claims that every time one of the two announ­cers makes a negative comment about him on the air, the Notre Dame basketball office is flooded with mail.  
color should analyze what is happening and why it is happening  "Well, you can do it, but you wouldn't last very long. That's not:  "All they have to do is criticize I one thing, and I start getting com-~  
at that moment," he argues. "They should not project  or  what the people want to hear." Meyer sees this as the heart of the  See COACHES, page 91  
"A 9-15 record does not make me happy at all," she 


Recruits for future 
Mary D bides her time 
Mary DiStanisloto has been patient. And it hasn't been easy. 

'1
admitted a few days ago. "It has been a long season and I 
don't mind telling you that I hate losing. But it's difficult 
to point fingers because most of the losses have been 
beyond our control." 
.\lary D. suspected as much when she accepted the 
joh of huilding a hig time women's basketball program 1 
at :'llotrc Dame. Since then, life has not been all smiles 
fur the 29-year-old coach who came to South Bend from Doherty, a 5-l0 guard from Apascack, NJ. Asmooth ball­
:'l.lorthwcstern, where she recorded an 89-27 record handler and a great shooter, Doherty should be a great 
and won two Big Ten championships. asset to Mary D.'s backcourt. Susan Neville, a 5-8 guard, 
"I knew this first year would be a season to observe 
has also signed a letter ofintent to come to Notre Dame. and plan for the future," she points out. "I really have no 
Described by Mary D. as a "John Paxson-like player," timetahle for the program, but I am aware of the fact 
she insists that Neville's ballhandling and court sense that others do. But with recruiting going as well as it will really help the team next year. has, we should be on anyone's timetable." On Monday the Irish signed their fourth recruit, 6-I At this moment, as Mary D: wings her way back from a 
forward, Mary Beth Scheuth. A native of Indianapolis, 24-hour recruiting junket to Phoenix, Notre Dame is 
Scheuth (pronounced sheeth) is a quick, strong inside 
preparing to welcome at least .four new players to next player who should help the Irish defensively. 
year's women's roster. Included in the bumper crop of "I am definitely pleased with our recruiting efforts freshman talent will be Carrie Bates, a 6-1 forward who thus far," says Mary D. "I think we have come up with a Mary D. claims "can play with anyone in the country." great group of student athletes and if we can sign our Bates, a native ofPickman Mills, Missouri, was an AAU fifth recruit out of Phoenix, well we've accomplished 
junior Olympics All-American, A Scholastic Coach something, believe me." 
Magazine All-American, a preseason Street and Smith All of which means that next year's Irish should be 
All-American and is very capable of helping the Irish able to improve on their 1980-81 record which is "less­
inside. than-satisfactory," emphasizes Mary D. Still, warns the 
"She's very strong," describes Mary D. "She's a great coach, it will require some patience before Notre Dame offensive rebounder and plays very well 'in the paint' can take its place with the real powers ofwomen's bas­(the lane) as AI McGuire would say." ketball. joining Bates in the class of I985 will be Laura But anything worth having is worth waiting for. 
Wednesday, March 4, 1981 -page 12 
Bill Marquard
Irish, \ 
Sports Writer
·Items 

RINGERS AT PHILADELPHIA-Sunday is the day for college bas­
ketball afficianados, the day that bids will be delivered and pairings 
announced for the Greatest Show on Earth, the NCAA basketball 
tournament. At-large tournament bids will be extended by the NCAA 
beginning at I p.m. CST. Notre Dame Athletic Director Gene Corrigan 
will be at the Rosemont Arena, where a special phone has been in­
stalled so that Notre Dame and DePaul representatives can keep in 
touch with the NCAA for any reason. Once the bid has been delivered 
to Notre Dame, Corrigan will inform Business Manager of Athletics 
joe O'Brien and Ticket ManagerSteve Orsini so that appropriate travel 
and ticket arrangements can be made. 
The NCAA will announce all of the inviations and seedings for the 
tournament at 2:00p.m. CST and NBC Sports will feature the pairings 
at halftime ofthe Irish/DePaul battle. 
The Irish are expected to receive their eighth consecutive bid to 
the NCAA post-season classic and their 18th invite overall. The Irish 
are 20-21 in NCAA playoff action, their best finish being fourth in the 
1978 tournament. 

PRE-PLAYOFF PROGNOSTICATION -The NCAA reserves the 
right to place a team in any ofthe four regional basketball tournaments 
leading up to the Final Four in Philadelphia. Although conference 
champions usually stay close to their geographic region, conference­
less, at-large teams like the Irish have been shuffled around the 
country. Powerful independents like Notre Dame, DePaul and Mar­
quette, which are so close together geographically, often find them­
selves sent far away from their accustomed Mideast Region. 
Since the pairings will bt~ determined before the Notre 
Dame/DePaul game has been played, DePaul has the best chance of 
staying in this region of any of the afore-mentioned independents. 
Knowing the NCAA's penchant for big draws and thus big dollars, 
don't be surprised to see the Irish wind up in the Midwest Region. 
Since the regional championships will be played in the Superdome in 
New Orleans (remember that place, Dan?), Lousiana State will most 
probably stay in their home region. A regional showdown between 
LSU and the Irish could pack not only the arena, but the NCAA's coffers 
as well. 

COMMERCIAL CUES -Television ratings are also high on the 
NCAA's list ofpriorities, and Notre Dame has been a traditionally large 
draw. The top three ratings that NBC had for its national basketball 
telecasts last season were for the Notre Dame/Marquette, Notre 
Dame/UCLA and Notre Dame/Maryland games. Surprisingly, Vir­
ginia's tussle with the Irish one and a half weeks ago was not the 
highest-rated game NBC telecast this year, although final official 
figures are not in. 

The Cavalier/Irish matchup earned an 8.6 rating and a 23.0 share. 
Translated, that means 8.6 percent of all the TV sets in the U.S. were 
tuned to the game that afternoon, while 23 percent of the TV sets 
which were turnedon at that time were tuned to the thriller. That also 
meant about I 7 million viewers nationwide. 
The Notre Dame/Virginia game did have stiffcompetition, since the 
Los Angeles Lakers were playing the New York Knicks on CBS at the 
same time. 

Yet NCAA basketball still has a much bigger following than the NBA, 
especially on television. While the NBA is wondering whether CBS 
will even bother to renew its contract for the next season, the NCAA is 
expecting a powerful bidding war over rights to NCAA basketball in 
the future. NBC's $9.9 million contract expires after the finals in 
Philadelphia and all three networks are expected to woo the NCAA 
with lucrative offers. 

TALL ON WORDS -Jay Mariotti, a staff writer for theDetroitNews, gathered the following conversation with Virginia's Ralph Sampson following the Notre Dame game: 
Q: 
Were you frustrated, Ralph? Ralph: No, not really. 

Q: 
What do you think ofthe Notre Dame jinx? Ralph: I don't think anything ofit. 

Q: 
How disappointed are you? Ralph: A little. 

Q: 
How much? Ralph: Some. 


Q: 
What did Notre Dame do that was so successful? Ralph: Nothing. 

Q: 
Why didn't you play well then? Ralph: I dunno. ADD HER TO THE LIST -Another outstanding prep basketball 


prospect has agreed to join coach Mary DiStanaslao's Irish squad. Mary Beth Schueth, a 6-I forward from Perry Meridian High School in In­dianapolis, has announced her intention ~f enrolling at Notre Dame this fall. A lJPI first te tam all-Indiana choice, Schueth is averaging 20.1 points and 14.6 rebounds per game for the 20-1 Meridian squad. 
She shot 54 percent from the floor and 59 percent from the charity stripe this season, and holds school records for career points ( l, I78) and career rebounds (926) along with points in a single game ( 35). 
Schueth is also a varsity monogram-winner in track and volleyball while ranking third in a graduating class of 532 with a 3.975 GPA. She was also student council treasurer and a member of the National Honor Society. 
WRESTLING EXPOSED -The Irish wrestling team has been get­ting some exposure recently, and not for their results on the mat. Jim Calcagnini, a Hamden, Conn., native on ROTC scholarship, was the subject of a commercial filmed last month to promote the ROTC program. While shooting the commercial, which should appear on national television, the film crew took footage of Calcagnini in the lockerroom, weighing in and wrestling teammateJoe Agostino. 
Brother Joseph Bruno, the Irish mat coach, was also the willing subject of a photo session to promote vocations to the Holy Cross order. 





