
, , , Bottom Ten -page 5 
VOL XVI, NO. I 7 an independent srudem newspaper serving notre dame and saint mary's TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 15, 1981 
Filming 
Construction on SMC library 


concluded 
continues right on schedule


on rosary 
ly connected with an underground
By DAVID RICKABAUGH By MARY O'KEEFE 
tunnel leading to Lemans Hall. 
Senior StaffReporter News Staff 
The main floor of the library combines the circulation andFilming concluded yesterday af­Construction of Saint Mary's new reserve books desk, a microfilmternoon in the Annenberg library continues on schedule, area, a reference and periodicalAuditorium of the Snite Museum on according to Sister Bernice Hollen­room, card catalogs and duplicatinga Thanksgiving television special on horst, Library Director, while plans machines.
the rosary. 
for the inside of the library ncar An administrative wing, on theYesterday's interview segment completion. main floor provides a reception area,between the program's narrator Bob Current plans call for three floors administrative offices, a staff lounge
Newhan and Notre Dame Head 
plus first and second mezzanine and a conference room for use byFootball Coach Gerry Faust com­levels. The lower level of the build­the library's staff and administration,pleted two days offilming on the ND ing will serve primarily for library , All floors of the library will con­campus. 
services with an Instructional tain bookshelves located in the cen­The program, pan of "The Family Material Center. ter of the floor and will provide aTheater" series, features the work of The curriculum lab presently variety of seating including studyMother Teresa with the under­located in the education dcpanment carrolls, tables and lounge areas.
privelaged. The filming of the seg­in Madalcva Hall will move to the "Study ai-ea.s will be dispersedments on the Albanian nun took center providing textbooks and throughout the library," accordingplace in Washington D.C. ­audio visual materials for student to Sister Bernice. "The second floorAlong with Coach Faust, Newhan teachers. The center will house an mezzanine will provide a sittinginterviewed Notre Dame President audio visual area with a preview deck for students to study outsideFr. Theodore Hesburgh C.S.C. and room, a work room, an equipment when the weather is nice." 
introduced the Notre Dame Glee room and a control room for use on Group study rooms for for stu­Club's performance of the Notre an individual basis. dents will be on the second floor andDame Victory March and alma A Special Collections Center second floor mezzanine level. Onemater. 
containingall the materials in the Ar­of these rooms will be used as aSaint Mary's Lake served as the set­chives and Rare Book room now, typing room. The plans call for 12ting for the Glee Club segment, located in Regina Hall, will relocate faculty research centers on the firstwhile the interviews took place in on the lower level of the new build­floor mezzanine and also a groupthe Annenberg Auditorium. The ing. An exhibit room displaying study room on the second floorprogram also includes shots of memorabilia collected over the large enough to seat 16 to 32 stu­various campus landmarks. 
years will connect with this area. dents.
Rev. Patrick Peyton, the "rosary Students who want to continue The Library Dedication Commit­priest," created the idea for the studying after the library closes will tee plans to finalize the details oftheshow and supervised yesterday's be allowed to stay in an all-night dedication ceremony at their
events. Recently he provided an Eas­study area open 24 hours and direct-meeting this Thursday.
ter special featuring Princess Grace Kelly of Monaco as narrator. 
During the interview yesterday when asked to comment on the statement that the position of head coach at Notre Dame is the second hardest job next to the President of the United States Faust said, "I don't 


Mysterious death prompts FBI investigation 
know about the presidency but I like the job at Notre Dame. Reagan ByBOB DVORCHAK independence movement. old American-born son to eager being followed by government
played here, maybe he could answer Associated Press Writer Because of that activity, his death relatives. agents. Chen left at 12:30 a.m., Teng
the question better than I could." 

in Taipei onJuly 3 -while officially . But Chen ran into trouble on said.
Faust, on the subject of the film, PITTSBURGH (AP) The ruled an accident or a suicide -is Taiwan. Questioned June 30 by About 4 a.m., Chen's body

stated that he joined the Legion of crumpled body of Chen Wenchen thought by some to be a political as­government officials, he was denied thudded to the lawn of the National
Mary twelve years ago and for the will be buried tomorrow in Taiwan, sassination. And that beliefhas sent a an exit visa onJuly I. Two days later, Taiwan University. The autopsy
last twelve years he has not missed a but no graveyard ceremony can lay chill through many Taiwanese in the he was dead. report listed 13 broken ribs, three

day. to rest the suspicions and mysteries United States. broken bones in his back, a cracked
Newhart, the star of the Saturday concerning the circumstances ofhis Students who attended a July 
hip and extensive internal injuries.
comedy "The Bob Newhart Show," death in a five-story fall. memorial service for Chen at Wang Chin-hsi, chief of the Gar­
acted as the host and narrator of the Chen, a 31-year-old native of Carnegie-Mellon wore masks or rison Command, said Chen

program. Taipei, taught statistics at Carnegie­covered their heads with paper bags. "probably committed suicide be­
According to the program staffthe Mellon University in Pittsburgh. He The mourners said they feared that cause he feared being arrested for
project will air over 200 stations and was also a supporter of a Taiwanese other students were spies for the his crimes."
reach every major market. Taiwanese government. Taiwan has been~ruled by mania! Byt in a 7,000-word final report "Professor Chen's death has left law ever since Mao Tse-tung's Com­issuldJuly 20, the district attorney's every Taiwanese who believes in munists drove Chiang Kai-shek and office in Taipei cleared Chen of any
Brady seeks education 

democracy and freedom ter­his Nationalists off the mainland. alleged crimes. It concluded he rorized," said CMU President Chiang's Kuomintang government "could have committed suicide or Richard Cyert, an outspoken critic has ruled Taiwan since 1949, a year died in an accidental fall."

about rape, incest, abuse 
ofTaiwan's handling ofthe death. before Chen was born. On July 31, the parliament 
"If a professor from a prestigious But Chen supported an indepen­released results of its investigation, By DAN LEDUC the widespread rape and sexual American university can meet a mys­dence movement that advocates concluding he died in an accident News Staff crimes. "Four Boys Rape Seven­terious death without the cause of more democracy for Taiwan by caused by dizziness or "mental dis­
Year-Old Girl." "Girl in Pit Sexually death being made clear, no student breaking with both the Communists turbance" after the interrogation. 
"Nobody's angry here. How come Tortured." is safe. Each one who has spoken and the Nationalists. doubted Chen killed himself. I'm the only one angry?" asked Kat­"This is what I find shocking," she against the (Taiwanese govern-Such talk is considered seditious In a news conference held in Pitts­herine Brady in the library said. . ment) may become a 'suicide' or the in Taiwan. On the basis of his first burgh last Friday, Mrs. Chen said she auditorium last night. "Incest is a serious problem, it is 'victim ofan accidental death.' ... My interrogation, Chen was denied an doesn't accept either official ruling. 
By the end of the evening there also a serious crime," she said, her own opinion is that he was mur­exit visa and told he had to be ques­"My husband's death was not a were some angry people in the voice cracking with emotion. dered by the secret police." tioned further by the Taiwan Gar­suicide or an accident. It was a mur­crowd of more than eighty listening Brady's own experience began at In the United States, Chen's death rison Command, the nation's top der," she said. to Brady, author ofFather'sDays her the age ofeight and lasted ten years. has prompted an FBI investigation security force. 'Suicide was not his way. He had a own story ofincest. "I went to my father for the things and congressional hearings in Wash­Security police picked Chen up at future full of potential. Nor was his 
Brady is not her real name but her you go to a parent for: love, compas­ington. 8:30 a.m. July 2. Officers said they death an accident," she continued, story is a true one. sion and understanding. And I was Chen's futllre seemed bright May released him after questioning him saying that certain cuts and bruises 
The feminist is angry about the molested." 20 when he returned to his for 13 hours. He never made it went unexplained in the Taiwanese way women are treated in this It wrecked her marriage and homeland for the first time in six home. government's autopsy report. country and wants education about divided her family. years. He had just been appointed to Instead, he went to the home of "From the minute that I saw his rape, child abuse and incest. "I was the ultimate, total victim. a new three-year term at CMU, and Teng Wei-hsiang, who had studied body ... I knew it was not an acci­
She began by citing headlines he and his wife, Su-jen, had planned with Chen in the United States. Teng dent. There were just too many un­from around the country regarding their vacation to show offtheir year-said Chen told him he feared he was explainable external wounds." 

---~---­
by The Observer and The Associated Press 

Government continues car tests 
The government said yesterday, it will continue auto crash tests, but no longer will assign pass or fail grades to particular models and will reasssess whether a single test is enough to make an accurate judgement. Raymond Peck, head of the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, said the old practice of giving cars a pass or fail grade may have misled the public at times and bee~ unfair to manufacturers. But he said the agency will continue the tests and will release numerical results, leaving it to the public to judge a car's crash worthiness. Peck said in an interview that labeling a car as having passed or failed the tests--a practice strongly criticized by the auto industry-­may exaggerate the danger of some autos while conveying "a false sense of security" about others. The crash rating began two years ago and became a central part of the agency's consumer information program under former President Carter's NHTSA admisistrator, Joan Claybrook. AP 
Entrants' fees go to hospital 
Entrants in a $1 million fish 1erby misunderstood if they thought all their entry fees would go to Children's Orthopedic Hospital, say hospital and derby officials. Schuck's Auto Supply, the sponsor, was to give the hospital just over $10,000 yesterday but of $124,000 the derby raised, said spokesman Dan McConnell, Sczhuck's planned all along to deduct expenses. "It was not made clear, " said Beverly Lambert, president of the hospital board of trustees. "Maybe when people thought they bought their entry fee that the whole $10 would go to us.'' Entrants each paid $10 to try to win $1 million on Sept.6 by catching a tagged salmon. No one caught the fish, but Schuck's will pay $10,000 to anyone who nabs it by Nov. 1; other donors added another $3,000. AP 
Soviet workers invited to Poland 
Solidarity members issued an open letter yesterday inviting critical Soviet workers to Poland to see first-hand how the independent labor federation operates. "We hope that when we meet, we will explain many problems and maybe your attitude toward Solidarity and all its members will 
obtain  proper  judgment,''  the  letter  from  the  union  
presidium of Warsaw's  PZL aircraft factory  told Soviet  
workers in a daily Solidarity news bulletin.  

While not mentioning the letter, the official Soviet news agency Tass accused "extremist leaders" in Solidarity of stepping up efforts to overthrow the socialist system. The attack was the latest in a torrent of sharp criticism · unleashed by the union's first congress. 
In a dispatch from Warsaw, Tass said Solidarity leaders "strive to heighten the atmosphere of an anti-socialist and anti-Soviet psychosis...to further pursue their attack on socialism with a view to taking over power in Poland. AP 
God violates U.S. Constitution 
Madalyn Murray O'Hair told a federal appeals court yesterday the Texas Constitution's requirement that public officers recognize God violates the U.S. Constitution. Mrs. O'Hair and her atheist group, the Society of Separationists1 were challenging a Texas frovision as a violation of the constitutional separation o church and state. A similar provision in Maryland was struck down by the U.S. Supreme Court in 1961, Mrs. O'Hair told the 5th Circuit Court of Appeals. Susan Bradshaw, of the state attorney general's office, said the suit was pointless because the 105-year-old constitutional section is not used. AP 
Burglarized family prays 
. A family of Christian Scientists terrorized by three bandits 'prayed for two hours before they called pohce, authorities s~id. Bruce Suthergreen, 62, his wife and daughter told police they prayed for the return of their property--about $200 and some jewelry--rather than call for help after the thieves left their home early Sunday. Three ski-masked men entered the house before dawn Sunday, ransacked the home and left the family bound up. When the family freed themselves, they prayed. AP 
Weather 
Cloudy with light rain showers in the late afternoon or evening. High today in the 70s. Tomorrow, cooler with a high in the 70s and a chance of showers. 

-~------------------------~---------------------. 
Tuesday, September 15,1981 -page 2 
and California Highway Patrol officers prepare for a planned blockade by the Abalone Alliance at the Diablo Canyon nuclear reactor in California. 
APPhoto 
Archbishop john Cardinal Cod_y, under investigation for alleged misuse ofchurch funds, faces the news media in Chicago 
File 
Sunday. 

e-The_Ohs.erYer_ 
Design Editor Michael C. Monk Design Assistants Patty Fox 
Suzanne La Croix Typesetter Bruce Oakley News Editor Cathy Domanico Copy Editor David Rickabaugh Sports Copy Editor Dave Dziedzic Typists Mike Monk 
Chris Perry 

Bruce-god NDDayEdltor Karen McMahon SMC Day Editor Mary Kay Hogan Ad Design Fran & Corbs 
· Pbotograpber Rachel Blount Guest Appearances jane, Max, lJ The devil, passing by, said: "Even from heU is there salvation. The Demon Multimedia has ascended from the infernal pit to take a desk job in a friendly neighborhood. And yet, my time will come." 
9Hfene6W iK ~ffce ~e Dh Altb aau1 .£eltN cm ffce Awdattie Cmuccil? 
Hinterested, submit a letter including your ackround and qualifications by September 22 
to -Howard Cyr 509 W. Navarre South Bend, IN 46616 
Editorial Board and Department Managers 
Editor-in-Chief.... ....... John McGrath SMC Executive Editor ..................... Mary Agnes Carey Managing Editor ......................................Tom jackman SMC News Editor ................................' Cathy Domamco
The Observer is an independent newspaper published 0\ rhc srudcnrs ut rhc 
Executive News Editor ...................... Lynne Daley Pboto Editor...................................................)ohn Macor
University of Notre Dame duLac and Sainr Mary's College. lr due-, nor nt'Lc-.-.~ulh 
News Editor ................................Tim Vercellotti 

reflect the policies of the admmistration of eirher 1nsruurion The nn>.-. 1-. rt'['urrcd News Editor.................... ................. .... Kelli Flint 
Business Manager ....................................Rich Coppola as accurarely and as objectively as possible Editonal-, represenr rhe \>['lfil<>rl ut <~ Senior Copy Editor .................... .. Mary Fran Callahan Controller....................................................... .)oe Mulllur majoriry of the Editorial Board. Commenraries, opiniuns. and krrer-, art· rhc VIc\<.-. Sports Editor .......... Michael Onman Advertising Manager......................................Mark Ellis of their authors. Column space is available ro all memhers ul rhc L<>mrnunlt\ and Production Manager........... ................Michael Monk 
Features Editor . ..............Anthony Walton Circulation Manager ................... ....Tom Maclennan
the free expression of varying opinions on Lampus. dm>ugh lt·rrer-. 1-. t"llluuragnl 
r ...:4 4P:C..SW:W:W 02 Z .11*11: .,.,..,....._.CiN#WIA CA ___ LA '? -'20~··..........,. ·.• ··-'-·"'-,."!1' ~-~·-... --.s ;: •.:~ • ....... 0 . -h. .42 u _e __eu; t .. ecru 
= 
ORA 

-~--~---~-------~--~ --------~ 
------~--------~-~----~---­
The Observer 
-~ 
Third encyclical 

Pope supports wrorker's rights 
VATICAN CITY (AP) -Pope john Paul II has wrinen the third en­cyclical otis papacy, a major docu­ment summarizing his views on the rights of workers and their position in modem society. 
The encyclical, a lener addressed by the pope to patriarchs, archbis­hops and other church leaders, will be released by the Vatican today. 
The leading Milan newspaper Corriere della Sera said the docu­ment will stress the importance of labor unions, the dignity of farm work, the particular problems of the handicapped and emigrant workers and the impact of technological developments. 
In announcing the encyclical during his noon message Sunday, the pope said the document was "dedicated to human labor and to workers themselves," a theme he has taken up often since his election as pope in October 1978. 

In his travel the pope has often un­derlined the rights of the working man and has welcomed the develop­ment of the independent union Solidarity in his native Poland. 
Donning a hard hat in a steel mill in Temi, Italy, in March, the pope declared that workers had a right to struggle for "a just salary and a cer­tain participation in management." During a visit to a sugar plantation in the Philippines, he strongly defended workers' rights to or­ganize into unions. 
The pontiffhas given his endorse­ment to the efforts by the independent Solidarity union move­ment to represent workers in 
Social Concerns film series increases student awareness 
By ROBERT MAROVICH 
News Staff 
The Notre Dame Social Concerns Organization, in conjunction with the Center for Experiential Learn­ing, is sponsoring a Social Concerns film series, which begins tonight. 
The Student Government-based organization will pre-sent "To Kill a Mockingbird" tonight, Wednesday, and Thursday in the Engineering Auditorium. There will be no admis­sion charge. 
"Hospital", starring George C. Scolt, will be shown September 18 and 19 in Washington Hall. Admis­sion will be fifty cents. 
The film "Breaker Morant" will be shown at the Engineering Auditorium September 22, 23, and 24, and at the Annenberg Audih>rium in the Snite Museum of Art September 25 and 26. 

All presentations will run at 7 p.m. and 9:~0 p.m. 
"The ftJm series is designed to draw students out of their everyday atmosphere and increase their awareness of outside events,"explained jim Wolfe, Stu­dent Government commissioner of the Social Concerns Organization. "The series is the main program for the group and has been for several years." 
Wolfe said that the group is also planning a Neighborhood Roots program, designed to orient ND/SMC students to the South Bend Community and encourage their evaluation ofthe problems the areas are facing. The group is tenta-tively planning to fund seminars 
. sponsored by the Center for Ex­periential Learning. Last year's s t emi­nar was held in Washington, D.C. 

Poland. But in a meeting with Solidarity leader Lech Walsea at the Vatican in january the pope urged that the union exercise prudence and moderation in its dealings with the government for the good of the entire country. 
The Soviet Union and other East bloc neihgbors have been increas­ingly critical of the series of labor reforms that have occurred in Poland since Solidarity's formation during a wave ofstrikes a year ago. 
The new encyclical was delayed by the shooting of the pope May 13, and john Paul said he put the finish­ing touches to it during his convales­cence at the papal summer palace in Castel Gandolfo. 
He said he wrote it for 90th an­niversary of Pope Leo XIII's Rerum Novarum -the first major papal en­cyclical on social issues. That docu­ment maintained the priority ofman and his ftJy over the state and af­firmed man's right to possess property and earn a living wage. 
An encyclical is one of the most important ways that a pope ex­presses his thoughts on specific mat­ters. 
In his ftrst encyclical, issued in March 1979, Pope john Pau~ II criticized the materialism of Com­munist and capitalist countries and warned that the arms race threatens destruction of mankind. In the second, issued last December, he 
said the church must speak out for mercy. 

Tuesday, September 15,1981 -page 3 

to have her children present and
continuedfrom page 1 

listening to the discussion. But I'm not anymore. I'm a sur­"I tell my children the truth. I am a vivor." lesbian mother and proud ofit." 
Her children have survived, too. And she is fighting back. Father's Emily, 1 I and Anna, 8 were with Days is a national bestseller and she their mother for the first time at a is at work on another book and lecture and listened to every word. touring the country lecturing. 
Brady was asked ifit bothered her "Rapes are on the rise and in the 
... Brady 
midwest there is an increase ofrapes 
on college campuses. Sometimes the 
volunteer men guards rape women." 
The author said she thought that 
most people don't know they could be targets, especially children. And while there have been numerous cases of assaults on men. the majority are on women. 


INTERESTED IN MEXICO THIS SPRING SEMESTER? 
1982 ONE-SEMESTER PROGRAMS 
Mexico City 
Universidad lberoamericana 
INFORMATION NIGHT Library Lounge 7 : 30 p. m. Thursday , September 17 

Offered by: Center for Experiential Learning Marcia leMay 1110 Memorial Jjbrary 
x2788 
Application deadline SOON 
Cuemavaca Program in Global Community 


!
t 
! 
Tuesday, September 15, 1981 -page 4
The Observer 

The Irish cheerleaders form a "tree" as they begin a long week ofpractice in preparation for 

'Drastic action' 
Reagan proposes more cuts 
WASHINGTON(AP)-Having al­ready scaled down his planned in­creases for defense, President Reagan eyed further cuts in domes­tic spending yesterday on grounds that "we face the choice of taking drastic action or inviting economic calamity." 
Even so, he said, the reductions can be achieved "without any damage to any ofgovernment's vital services." 
The president's deputy press secretary, Lacey Speakes, declined to rule out Social Security as one ofthe areas where additional cuts would be made. He said the total reduc­tions in the upcoming fiscal 1982 budget would be less than $18 bil­lion. 
From a meeting with conservative congressional Democrats to a lunch with House Speaker Thomas P. O'Neill and the House Republican leader, the president paid heed to budgetary matters, even as he presided at a ceremony officially proclaiming the bicentennial celebration ofthe revolutionary vic­tory at Yorktown. 
"At home, our enemy is no longer redcoats but red ink," Reagan said. 
"After 19 deficits in the last 20 
years and a national debt of nearly a 
trillion dollars, we face the choice of 
taking drastic action or inviting economic calamity," Reagan said. 1"0ur administration and I think the American people have the resolve to do what we know is right and what we know must be done. Make no 
mistake. We will." 

"I believe the spirit of Yorktown 
and the spirit of our revolution is 
still alive and well in America I'm 
confident that if we work together 
and reason together and stick to­
gether, then just like our forefathers, 
we'll be all right," he said. 

Speakes said ''right now there are 
no plans for .further cuts in entitle­
ments in '82." Entitlements are the 
federal programs including Social 
Security and food stamps, for which 
spending is governed by law. 

At the same time, Speakes pointed 
out that "there are problems with 
Social Security." The administration 
has said the Social Security System 
faces a shortfall by late next year un­
less its income or allocations are 
changed. 

Asked whetherhe administration was going to leave to the 
'1 rammg Sesstons for the Undergraduate Schools 

Committee members will be held Tuesday -Thursday, September 15-17 in the Library Auditorium 7-8 p.m. 
Veteran members welcome! 

!Jemocratic majority in the House the task ofproposing Social Security spending cuts or higher contribu­tions from wage earners, the spokes­man replied with a grin: "I've said all I'm going to say." 
Asked whether Reagan would cut SI 8 billion from the 1982 budget, for which he asked $695 billion last spring, Speakes said that figure was "a little high." 
With the presidential decision Saturday that the planned increase in military spending would be cut by S13 billion over the next three fiscal years, Reagan and his advisers turned their attention yesterday to domestic spending reductions as they seek to keep the fiscal 1982 budget deficit at $42.5 billion, despite continuing record-high in­terest rates, and balance the budget by fiscal 1984. 
Buy 
Observer 
classifieds 

The Observer (USPS 598 920) is published Monday through Friday and on home football Saturdays. except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is published by the students of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Col­lege. Subscriptions may be purchased for $25 per year ($15 per semester) by writing The Observer, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 
The Observer is·a member of The Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
Second class postage paid at Notre 
Dame. Indiana 46556. 
We'te Puttin' 1t Togethetl 
·All interested students: 

The Scholastic magazine_ Production Meeting 
for layout of September issue 
will be Tomorrow at 7 pm 
Come learn the art and skill of magazine layout 
Interested in writing soon? 
Writer's Meeting: 6:30pm 
Off-campus townhouses proposed by Murday 
ByBILLKOLB 
News Staff 

Student Body President Don Mur­day presented to the Student Senate last night a South Bend teal estate broker's proposal for_ building off­campus student townhouses three blocks south ofUniversity property. Robert Hoover, brokerfor Gallery of Homes real estate agency, presented the proposal to a Campus Life Council Task Force last Thursday. He seeks a loan from the University at 7 percent interest for the S7 million, 300-unit con­dominium complex. Although Mur­day expressed doubts about the 
University's willingness to fund the 
project, he admitted that alumnae 
have expressed interest in funding a 
townhouse development. 

Hoover sought funding from banks and private lending institu­tions, but high interest rates ren­dered the project infeasible. If the University does not come through, he says, "I don't know what I'll do." 
A survey conducted last spring of students living off-campus revealed a well-defined need exists for low­cost student housing. Married and graduate students prefer to live alone in efficiencies while under­graduates prefer two-bedroom apartments tb.at can accomodate 
Parking permits issued 

Parking is allowed by special permit from the Athletic Department for Saturdays of home football games in the following lots: A-1, B-2, C-3, C-4, C-5, D-2, Continuin~ 
Education Center and V1sftors. Restricted parking is allowed at the Morris Inn and University Club. 
54533 T~ L.aar, So.dl ~ ..Hair lilgdolltAcros.• from Martin's oa SL Rol.. 231 
TUES~ W£D. 8:30-5:.30 For All" 
HllJRS., fRI. 8:J6.ll:30oSA T.ll:30-5-..30 
272-0312•277-1691 
• • • • • • •ICOUPO,_ • • • • • •. 
1 For The Total Look 1
:C..d ~ ~~ 
on a Styled Hair Cut, : I y"" \\'-' Shampoo, Blow Dry & I IE..~ Conditioner. : I ~? Reg. SIS.OO I 
I Now 51001 Complete I 
: The2~~C9~ts of2~~~o~~stle : 
• • • • • •ICLIPANDSAYEI• • • •. 
three or four people. The study showed that students want to live securely and within walking dis­tance ofcampus, a grocery store and a laundromat. Hoover says his plan meets the students' needs. 
The plan calls for Hoover to manage the apartments jointly with Gayle Warner, former manager of Campus View apartments. John Leader, a South Bend architect, owns the proposed site, a triangular parcel of land bounded by South Bend Avenue, Twickenham and Howard. 
Murday says he plans to gather more information about the project and will voice the Senate's concerns about off-campus housing at the Uni­versity Trustees' meeting on Oc­tober 22. 
In other business, the Senate passed a final version ofa resolution that recommends the University adopt a two-day registration policy for the fall semester. Murday will 
present the resolution this week to Dean ofAdministration Leo Corbaci and Provost Timothy O'Meara 
Insurance available toSMC 
The Mutual of Omaha Accident and Sickness Insurance Plan is still available to all eligible Saint Mary's College students. Deadline for enrollment is Oct. 1, 1982. 
The Plan covers expense incurred for accidental bodily injuries and sickness as provided by the Master Policy held by Saint Maryzs and underwritten by Mutual of Omaha InsuranceCompany. 
SMC students who are taking nine or more credit hours are eligible to enroll in the Accident and Siockness Insurance Plan. Coverage begins on the date of enrollment and ends Aug. 24, 1982. 

-----_j 
"just 5 minutes from school" 



r----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
I 

~j)(),-tS ~~~~~·~·=-====*j====================T=u=e=sd=~='=Se=p=te=m=b=e=r=15=,=19=8=1==p=a=g~e5 
bv The Ohserz•t•r and The ,iJJu<iuted Pn r.1 

The deadline for entry in the interhall track meet is tomorrow. The meet, scheduled for Friday, Sept. 25, is for both Notre Dame men and women. Sign-up at the Office of Non-Varsity Athletics (C-c of the ACC) or call 6100. 
Jogging clitlic is scheduled for this evening at 7 p.m. in the ACC auditorium. Notre Dame track and cross-country coach ~nd _noted clinician J oc:; Piane will speak on • ~evelopmg different types ofrunmng programs. Admission ts free. 
Referees are needed for Notre Dame's women's interhall flag football. Interested men or women should contact the NVA office at 6100 or stop by C-2 of the ACC. 
Cross Country league competition will consist of seven-man 
teams. All members must be from the same hall. The 
deadline for entries is tomorrow. Entries can be submitted 
to the NVA office (C-2 of the ACC) or call 6100. Competition will take place on Burke Golf course, with the 
time and date to be announced. 
The ND chapter of the Fellowship of Christian Athletes (FCA) is sponsoring a presentation of the Notre Dame-FCA Forum wtth assistant football coach Tom Lichtenberg tomorrow. The session will be held in St. Edward's chapel at 8:30 p.m. This will be the first of a series of monthly forum. The FCA is a non-denominational group which promotes Christian fellowship among athletes and coaches. 
Conditioning practices for the Notre Dame varsity wrestlingteam will be held this week beginning at 4/5 p.m. each day in the wrestling room of the ACC. All interested students, especially freshmen, are urged to attend. For more information, call Bro. Joe at 7454. 
Notre Dame Rugby Club will stan practice this Thursday at 4: 15 p.m. behind the ACC on the old interhall soccer fields. Bring $3 for South African rugby tickets. If there are any questions, call Nick Colarelli at 289-3022. 
Notre Dame's Gymnastics Club practices every Monday, Wednesday and Friday at Saint Mary's Angela Athletic Facility and every Tuesday and Thursday at Notre Dame's Rockne Memorial. Practice runs from 4 to 6 p.m. daily. New members are always welcomed. For more tnformation call Brian McLaughlin 
Michigan tops Bottom Ten 
Upsets scrambled the Bottom Ten this week. Three teams from last week's poll suffered stunning victories in their season openers. 
Second-ranked Georgia Tech was confident as it traveled to Birmingham. The Wreck felt a rout at the hands of Bear Bryant and the Tide was assured. However, they surprised them­selves in a 24-21 victory. 
The game was also marked by classic Bottom Ten post-game quotes. Bryant: "This was no upset." (Even though Tech hadn't won an opener since the 60's.) Yellow Jacket Coach Bill Curry: "We have a bunch of skinny-necked youngsters who refuse to be beaten." (The former Packer may have to beat a few ofthem if he wants to climb back into the rankings.) 
In the Bottom Ten Hall of Fame game, Gloria "you'll love my stretch" Vanderbilt University downed the University of Lefty "We'll boycott the NCAA tournament" Driesell, 23-17. Vandy had been ranked 7th, but was surprised by the Terps slow-moving offense. 
In a daring move, Kansas State red-shined its eight best seniors this season. The Wildcats thought they were on their way to Bottom Ten supremacy, but the plan went awry. Last week's ninth-rar.ked team won a disappointing 31-10 game with the Wiley Coyotes of South Dakota. 
As per Bottom Ten regulations, these teams have been banned from the poll for one week. 
Last week's number one team had a scare as well. After wisely using all their time-outs early in the second half, Northwestern found itself down 21-20 to Indiana with the clock runningout. Feeling that a kick would be too risky, the Wildcats went for a two-point conversion. The strategy worked. The attempt failed and Northwestern's losing streak was extended. to 21. 
The first coaching casualty of the season is U1EP's Bill Michaels. He was fired after the Miners dropped their season opener to Texas A & I. A better man the Bottom Ten had never seen. 
Here, then, are the rankings: 
11 Michigan (0-1]--said Schembechler: "The offense wasn't any good, the defense wasn't any g?od, the kiclci~~ wasn't any good, and the coachmg was poor. 
2 tie Alabraska fl-1 and Nebama 0-1 --twin 
Skip Desjardin Bob Simari 
Bottom Ten 

sons of different mothers. 
3] TCU (0-1]~-new slant on old theme: Christians fed to Tigers in loss to Auburn. 
4] Penn (0-0]--delaying the inevitable. 
51 Texas-EI Paso (0-1]--Coach Michaels was 5-43 during his tenure. 
6] Columbia (0-0]--"If Penn doesn't have to, why should we play?" Good question. 
7] Tennessee (0-2)--outscored 87-7 so far this week. 
BJ Northwestern [0-1]--Denny Green maintains tradition in coaching debut. 
9] Cincinnati [0-2]--deepest penetration in 52-0 loss to Penn State was own 45 yard line. 
10] Los Angeles Rams [0-2]--Alouette, gentile Alouette. 
ALSO RECEIVING V01ES: 
East Carolina [1-1]--spied on North Carolina practices and still lost 56-0. Flon'da State [2-0]--only beat Memphis State by five. 
Maine [0-1]--loss to Lehigh impressed voters. 
Rice [0-1]--boiled by Texas, 31-3. 
john Cardinal Cody (0-10]--anticipating long road trip. 
QUOTE OF THE WEEK: 
Indiana coach Lee Corso on this week's game with USC: "I scheduled that game when I ftrst got here seven years ago. I didn't think I'd still 
be around." 
~-­
Classifieds 
I NOTICES J 
FILM--PRISONER OF CONSCIENCE Tues. 8 p.m.. 104 O'Shag spon. AM~ NESTY INTERNATIONAL 
USED BOOK SHOP. HOURS WED .. SAT, SUN. 9-7. CASPERSON, 1303 BUCHANAN AD, NILES. 
WORLD BUDGET TRAVELLERS CLUB Organ~zatronal Meetrng, Wed . Sept. 16, Am. 2d LaFortune. Forergn Travel Ex­penance unnecessary. DESIRE alone adequate 
Need Rrde Badly 2 & From LA 4 Oct Break. Share Expenses. Call Sylvra 6926 
Need nde to and lrom Rrchmond, IN.. Ox· lord orCrnCL,OH.Ihrsweekend (18-201h). Call Katre 4631 (SMC) 
IMPROVE YOUR GRADES! Research catalog -306 pages -10.278 top~cs­Rush $1 .00. Box 25097C. Las Angeles, 90025 (213) 477-8226 
ILOST/FOUND l 
FOUND -SET OF KEYS AT NOTRE DAME LIBRARY PIT WEDNESDAY EVENING CALL TRISH4-1-4875. 
FOUND A her LSU game stuoent loot ball trx To clarm, call Lrsa (1298). Must be able to tdent1ty section, row, and seat numbers · 
I FOR RENT 
RENT TO OWN A COLOR TV OR STEREO CALL SUN APPLIANCE 291­5112 
House lor rent. Walk to campus. For rnlo call J•m at 3234. 
UGLY DUCKLING RENT-A-CAR From $8.95 a day and R cents a mrle. Phone 259-84591or reservations. 
Sub-lease Notre Dame Apartment820 N. 
N.D. Ave. $90 a month and elec. One vacancy avatlable to share wrth 3 others. Call Mark-289-4429. 
FOR RENT N.D Apts. only 5 blocks from campus on busline -t'o3 sutte ava1la~e call Dave 288-4170 anytrme. 
WANTED 
NEED FSU GA AND STUDENT TIX ­WILL PAY $$$$ CALL JOHN at 287­6035. 
GOING THROUGH PA? I NEED A RIDE HOME-WEEKEND OF SEPT 19 WILL SHARE EXPENSES. CALL MARCI ­8018 
Bowlers needed wednesday nrghts 9p.m. 
-11 :30p.m. contact Mabel at2811 or 232­
7782 
NEED RIDE TO PURDUE. WILL SPLIT 
GAS. CALL ME, t485 
DO YOU HAVE EXTRA TIME IN THE AF· TERNOONS ? WE NEED PART TIME DELIVERY HELP APPLY IN PERSON AT SUN APPLIANCES 60271 US 31 SOUTH ON WED & THURS BETWEEN 10 & 4 NO PHONE CALLS 
r·--··­
. ·-.'>R SALt I 
·---.----·---·-J 
1974 Tnumph TR6 yellow, excl cond 
$4500 277-5674 
stereo equrptment drscounts with the stu­dent budget rn mrnd on major brands like . bose rnhnlly,h.k.. nikko and many morel full warranty, proffestonal consultation and set-up servrce-call J.B. at 8228. 

For sale: Yamaha OT 50. 210 m1. t'none 277-5828. Ring 12 Xs. 
TICKETS 
Have two FSU lix. Desire to trade lor MSU. Call Patty 1321. 
Penn St. ticket wanted please call Donna at6771. 
NEED 2-4 GA TIX FOR ALL HOME FOOTBALL GAMES CALL ART AT 1593 
NEED 3 GA FOR PURDUE. NAME YOUR PRICE. CALL BOB AT 277-4022. 
NEED FLORIDA STATE TICKET. Just onQ. Cousrn comrng from Flonda, and she· s a beautrful blonde Call Tom at 8620 
Help' Need 2 or more lrx to any game; esp. Mrch. St. Call Maureen. 284-4156. Wrll pay good$$ 
WANTED:2 NAVY G. A TIX. CALL DAVE 1396. 
Need tour FSU GA's. Call Paul8932. 
1 FSU GA CALL JENNY 8026 
Need 2 GA MSU trx. Money rs no object. Call Susan 41-4361. 
Wrlltrade my Mrchrgan tiCket from lottery tor a Purdue trcket. M1ke 3507. 
l.would like to trade: 2 GA Purdue Trx tor 2 Fla. St or So. Cal GA IIX. Dusty 484 7. 
Have 2 MICtiiGAN tix, want to trade tor 2 PURDUE trx, contact Lrsa at 1329. 
Will pay MEG/I-MEGA BUCKS tor a parr of FLA. ST. t1x. Call Marty 8707. 
Wrll grve anytrng lor 2 GA's to USC. This INCLUDES DRUGS AND SEX. Call Jack 8519. Hurry I have only limited stamina. 
MICHIGAN TICKET FOR SALE. Great seat, call Joan at6553. 
MICHIGAN STUDENT SEASON TICKET FOR SALE, call Joan at 6553. 
DESPERATELY NEED TWO OR FOUR NAVY GA'S FOR PARENTS. CALL JULIE 2169. 
Desperately need 2 FSU AND 2 USC TIXS I Money rs no object I Call Steve 8265. 
Trckels Wanted NO vs SO CAL., Call Phrl 9 A.M.-5 P.M. PAY$$$$$. 
I have 1 GA trx to U. of Mrch. and want to "horsetrade" tor 1 U.S.C. sludenttrx. Will consrder selling trx. Call Larry at288-4005 aher 8 p.m. or leave note at Law School lor Larry Srrhall. 
HELP' Mom & Dad need 2 GA's tor any home gam,e. Call Matt1485.$$$. 
WILL TRADE 1 PURDUE FOR A MICH. CALL MIKE AT 1205. 
I need 3 or 4 GA tickets tor the M1ch1gan State game Call 1222 and ask tor Peter 
Need 2 Navy GA's. Call Susan 8020. 
AM WILLING TO TRADE TICKETS TO ROLLING STONES DETROIT SHOW FOR TICKETS (STUDENT OR GA) TO USC CALL IMMEDIATIEL Y-I'M DESPERATE I CALL CHRIS AT 1618. 
I DESPERATELY NEED 4 GAS AND 2 STUDENT TICKETS ro MICH ST. GAME. CALL 1171 
Desperately need 2 or 3 GA's tor F.S.U Will pay BIG bucks Call Tom 8531 or 8529. 
DESPERATELY NEED 2 GA'S FOR MSU GAME. CALL KELLY 4407. 
DESPERATE!! Need 6 GA M1chlgan liCk· ets!! $$$Call Kris 41-4212. 
PLEASE HELPII Need 2 or 4 Penn St. GA's. Will pay brg bucks. 1142. 

The Observer will accept classifieds Monday through Friday, 10 a.m. to 4:30p.m. However, clas­sifieds to be run in the next issue must be received by 3 p.m. the business day prior to insertion. All clas­sifieds must be prepaid, either in person or through 
the mail. 
WILL TRADE ONE PURDUE TIK FOR ONE MICHIGANTIKCALLJIM6802. 
NEED U.S.C. STUDENT TfX -WILL PAY BUCKS!!! CALL JIM 6802. 
TRADE MICHIGAN TICKET FOR USC GA. STUDENT, OR CASH IN THAT OR­DER CALL JIM 8658. 
NEED 2 MSU GA TICKETS WILL PAY TOP PRICE. CALL 287-2088 EVENINGS 
ALCOHOLIC AMIGOS TRAVELING HERE TO SEE USC GAME. 
DESPERATELY NEED 6 STUDENT TIXI WAS? THANX FOR A TRULY UNIQUE 
OR ELSE I AM A DEAD HOMBRE. THEY' GET VIOLENT WHEN THEY DRINK. CALL 1696 AND ASK FOR THE SOUSEMASTER. 
PERSONALS] 
SOCIAL CONCERNS FILM SERIES ­September 15-26. 
Soctal Concerns Ftlm Senes To Krll A Mockrngbrrd Sept 15, 16, & 17 .... 7 & 9:30p.m. Engmeenng Audrtonum FREE Admrssron. 
Sacral Concerns Film Senes SOMETHING BEAUTIFUL FOR GOD Sept. 15, 16, & 17 ----12:00 noon LaFortune Lrllle Theatre FREE Adm1sston. 
Social Concerns Ftlm Senes HOSPITAL Sept.18& 19---7&9:30p.m. Washrngton Hall Admrssron: 50 cents. 
---HAVING A PARTY?--­We wrll deliver all the beer, liquor, mrxers. cups and ICe you need at the lowest prrces m town. call Pete or Mark at 3670 tor details. 
Szan-See. roommates can be frenzs. tool L. 
Accompenyisl needed for ballet classes. PAYS $3.50 tor 50 mins. $5 tor 75 mins. Call GOTH dept. 284-4141 days, Debra Stahl272-0218 evenings. 
COMPETITIVE COLOR GUARD Ex­penenced or willing to learn? Looking tor 6 male niles and 12 female silks. Call Joyce 6747 or Pat1146 
CARROLL STREET ROCKS ... 
TO ALL THE BOYS WOUNDED IN AC­
TION, SATURDAY, IN ROOM 133 ·PANGBORN-DID ANYONE FIND OUT WHO THE "REAL" ·scon CUNNEEN 
EXPERIENCE! KATHLEEN & DENISE 
HEY EVERYONE: Call Colleen Sloan today at 4-1-4908 and ask her what krnd of car she hast (Will she say While?) 
Both, Colleen, Helen, Meg, and Nancy: "Let's go to Michrgan" 
JEFF LINDHOLM, alias Jeff from Flonda... Your days are numbered.. I wrll seek revenge .. I wanllhe shrrt ott of your back. BEWARE Ill H20111 DIGGER 
Come to the SWOC (sex wrthout commrH· ment) Club open house on Fnday, Room 69, at MotelS. Meet the founder and (pro) creator Tiruana Jerk Green M&M's and chams are avarlable. (Un)dress ap­proprrately. 
Julush & Mega-a-Queef, Shall we grve it another try thts weekend??? 
Frght Song Tulonal 9'ol5'o81 8:30PM Puzzle Room, BP Everyone welcome! 
Good luck on your first round of tests, Pall Your brgsis, GM. 
Thrnk about Spring Semester in MEXICO · Untversidad lberoamencana-Mextco City or Program m Global Commumty­Cuernavaca. Come to INFORMATION NIGHT, Thurs. the 17th, 7:30pm, Library Lounge. Call Marcra LeMay, 2788. Center tor Experrenlral Learnrng. 
•·. 




continuedfrom page 8 
Wolverines will be looking up at the Irish in the polls, something that traditionally has been thought ofas a boost for the "underdog." But Faust insists that the latest rankings don't .change things. 
"It's going to be a tough game, no matter who's ranked where," he in­sists. "Sure, it's probably easier to get emotionally ready when you're the underdog, but being number one doesn't change much from our standpoint." 
Coach Faustposes with bis two star tailbacks, ranking in tbe AP and UPIpolls. (photo by Rae­Two ironies ofSaturday afternoon Pbil.Carter ( 44) and Greg Bell. Tbe three are ob-be/Blount) also come to mind. With a half a viously happy about Notre Dame's number one minute to go, Faust answered the 

A premonition, no doubt. 

,...C~~~,._._CHI___ItO._~--I)oa-oCHI_H)oo_.O.__,__~,_, 

I
IAP Top Twenty Poll 
AP Top Twenty 
The Top Twenty college football teams in The sociatad Press poll, with first-place votes in theses, this season's records and total points. based on 20-t 9-18-17 etc. Notre Dame oponents 
italicized. 
1. Notre Dame (24) 140 2 Southam Cal (15) 1-0-0 3. Oklahoma ( 12) 1-0-0 4 Georg1a (12) 2-0-0 5. Penn State (1) 1-o-o 6. Texas (1) 1-0-0 7. Pittsburgh 1-0-0 
8. Ohio State 1-0-0 9. UCLA 1-0-0 
10. Nonh Carolina 1-0-0 11. Michigan 0-1-0 12. Alabama 1-1-0 
13. Bngham Young 2-0-0 14. Miss1ssipp1 State 1-0-0 15. Washing1on 1-0-0 
16. Miami (Fla.) 1-0-0 17. Nebraska 0-1-0 
18. 
AriZona State 1-0-0 

19. 
Florida State 2-0-0 20. Wiscons1n 1-0-0 



as an Arm Officer 

·----------------------------------------------~-----­


Ihe~~r -~~-~~-=-============~~===================== 
T0 da~==============T=u:-::e=sd=a=y=,=Se=p=t=em=b=e=r=l=S=,1=9=8=l==p=a=g=e=7::: 


CFtLl Tf/E Pr/OMOTtoii.JilLMIWT AIIO FINO O<lT WHIIT T/h!. Y HAV~ Got-uC.. 
' 


The Daily Crossword 
©1981 by Chicago Tribune-N.Y. News Synd. Inc. All Rights Reserved 

Homecoming Specia The Student Union & ACC present 
=weom rnm~corn rn®TI'~= 
IN CONCERT Fri., Oct. 9 at the ACC 
Student Lottery is Mon., Sept 14 at 7 pm --r'--<d--~L lri the Lafortune Ballroom 
--f,.;;w~r­
also on sale at ACC Box Office ticket prices are S9.50 and $10.00 
ACROSS 27 Looked 1 Ejects daggers 6 White 31 Machinate whaler 36 Kind of 10 Cooking bean 
bowls 37 Hand-me· 14 Puck down 15 Bangs and 39 Kind of 
locks energy 16 USSR city 40 Past masters 17 At-for 41 Pic 
words 43 Filled 18 To boot pancake, 19 Turner of for short 
the screen 44· Lay eyes on 20 Cardinal's 46 12·point 
symbol type 22 About-face 47 Hackman of 24 Social org. films 26 Santa Claus 48 Remain in 
aid residence 
Yesterday's Puzzle Solved: 

1'vlichael Molinelli 
YOlJ .SE£, :I.'H AN ALIEN ... ANP W£'V~ EVOLVE:.I> 



Campus 
•12:00 
p.m. -social concerns film, documen­tary, "something beautiful for god", Iafortune little theater, sponsored by center for experien· tialleaming and student govt., documentary ftJm on Mother Theresa 

•4:30 
p.m. -kenna lecture series, session 2, "a duality operation in the character ring of a finite chevally group", prot: c.w. curtis, 226 ccmb. 

•7:00 
p.m.,9:30-social concerns film, "to kill a mockingbird", engineering auditorium, sponsored by center for experiential learning and student govt. 

•7:00 
p.m. -meeting, american chemical society, 123 nieuwland. 

•7:00 
p.m. -organizational meeting, preprofes­sion,al organizational meeting, room 1 18 niewlana science hall, all interested are invited to attend. 

•7:00 
p.m.-lecture and slide presentation, smc energy week event, "solar energy", mary failey, indiana dept. ofcommerce, rm. 1OS science bldg. 

•7:00 
p.m. -"placement night", college of science placement night, auditorium, center for continuing education, important in career plan­ning. 

•a8:00 
p.m. -soccer game, notre dame vs. st. joseph's, cartier field. 

•8:
1S p.m. -concert, fontana ensemble, an eve­ning ofchamber music, annenberg aud., snite art museum, sponsor,..<t by university artist series. 


Television Tonight 
7:00p.m. 16 Uttle House on the Prairie 22 Billy Graham Baitimore Crusade 28 Happy Days 34 Nova, "Unus Pauling, the Crusading 
Scientist" 46 Michiana Today 7:30p.m. 28 Laverne & Shirley 46 God's News Behind the News 8:00p.m. 16 Tuesday Night at the Movies, "The Place to Be, Part II" 
22  CBS  Tuesday  Night  Movie,  
"Strangers"  
28  Three's Company  

34 Awareness In Drawing, Part I 46 Lester Sumrall Teaching Series 8:30p.m. 28 Too Close for Comfon 46 Dwight Thompson 
9:00 p.m. 28 'Hart to Hart 34 The Duchess ofDuke Street 46 Today with Lester Sumrall 
10:00 p.m. 16 NewsCenter 16 22 22 Eyewitness News 28 Newswatch 28 34 The Dick Cavett Show 46 Good News 
10:30 p.m. 16 Tonight Show 22 Cannon & The Saint 28 ABC News Nlghtllne 34 Captioned ABC World News 
Tonight 46 Pattern for Uving 
11:00 p.m. 28 Fantasy Island 46 Praise the Lord 
11:30 p.m. 16 Tomorrow Coast to Coast 
This day in history 
Today's highlight in history: In 191 7, the Rus· 
•_sian Repu~lic was proclaimed under Alexander 
.Kerensky. 

On this date: 
In 1 777, Polish Count Casimir Pulaski was 
commissioned a major general in the American Revolutionary Army. In 1935, a banner with a swastika on it was proclaimed the official flag of Germany. 
One year ago: president Carter criticized his Republican challenger, Ronald Reagan, for commenting publicly about the Iran hostage negotiations during the presidential campaign. 
.. 
50 Tibia and 
femur 52 Make a face 54 Native of 
Yugoslavia 55 Crackerjack 60 Experience 
in memory 64 Tortoise's pigeon 65 Flood 
survivor 67 Helping act 68 Sommer 69 902 70 Smirk 71 Polanski 
film 
72 Poetic times 73 Royal Russians 
DOWN 1 Box 2 Mound 3 Moses story: 
abbr. 4 Indecisive 5 TV street 
name 6 Cry of 
triumph 7 Moiety 8 Bridal path 9 Cooks, 
in a way 10 Dire poverty 
11 Verbal 12 Gambling 
game 13 Hit 21 Guitar 
sound 23 Cpl.'s charges 25 Greek 
fabulist 27 Tumbler 28 Lawful 29 The end 30 Old Nick 32 Bugaboos 33 Burstyn of 
movies 34 Bangor's state 35 Coastal 
birds 38 Cubes 42 Gung·ho 45 Grant's­49 Soupcon 51 Penitents 
beat it 53 Dwarf 55 Sharpen 56 Revolution· 
ary Nathan 57 Nettles 58 Letters 59 Put on 
weight 61 Thought 62 Swerve 63 Goes wrong 66 Towel word 
... 

----~----~-~~----~--~----------~ -­
Tuesday, September 15,1981 -page 8
SRorts Gerry was right; "We're No. 1 !" 
Those who are familiar with his antics weren't the least bit surprised Friday evening when Gerry Faust was leading cheers into the microphone. "We are (clap,clap), ND" and "We're Number One:" 
On Friday evening everyone thought that it would be impossible for the Irish to be ranked No. 1 in the nation until later in the season, or at least until after beating Michigan (knock on woood). But after the top-ranked Wolverines ~ lost to Wisconsin, second-ranked Oklahoma struggled early with Wyoming before prevail­ing, 37-20, and No. 3 Alabama was upset by Georgia Tech, the ~ossibility emerged. 
After beating Loutsiana State Saturday, Tony Hunter said of the man who had coached him for five of the last seven years, "He's living out a dream." 
But the events of yesterday afternoon were simply too much. A dream team led by a man with onefame of college coaching experience was vote No.1 in the nation not only by the media, but by Faust's fellow coaches. 

-
"I think I'll retire now, " said a surprisingly jubilant Faust. "Yeah, this is a good time to retire." 
"You might have thought he'd view the 
recognition as a jinx of sorts; "a monkey on my 
back,'' as DePaul basketball coach Ray Meyer once called it. Yet it didn't seem to phase Faust in the slightest. 



He's used to being the best at what he does, and the accompanying pressure. His Moeller teams were often the best in the city, the state and the country. "I'm happy with being number one any time," he smiled. "The one (ranking) at the end of the season is the one that counts, but we'll take it when we can get it." 
Faust was careful, however. He did refuse to pose for one Observer photographer who asked him to point his first finger skyward. "We can't take a chance of it getting out to Michigan," he said with a grin. 
The obvious role reversal comes to mind. For weeks, people have been anticipatin~ Satur­day's clash between "top-ranked Mtchigan" and "highly-rated Notre Dame." Now the 
See NO.1, page 6 
Well-roundedness 
EDITOR'S NOTE--"Inside ND Interhall" will be a regular weekly feature in "The Observer". Its aim is to keep ihe students informed about up­coming events throughout the 1981-82 academic year in "intra "-collegiate athletics. This week, a bn'ef explanation ofwhat NVA are all about. 
Granted, with school just starting most of us have ''a million and one things going at once.'' But it is to one's advantage to take time to reflect upon the meaning of his or her education. If the extra effort is made to further one's education, it is important to make it a well-rounded one. 
"Well-rounded" means filling in the other halfof the education, specifically the social and athletic activities that are made available to us. The importance of involvement can be quite far reaching in its benefits. The activities sponsored by the office of Non-Varsity Athletics would help yourself and others physically and mentally in acting as an aid in learning to cope with others and life in general. This 

... 
knowledge, in turn, can readily be extended into the area ofacademics. This should help us to gain a broader sense in our respective fields of study. There is a good cross-section of activities offered through NVA from individual events such as tennis, golf and track, to team sports like volleyball, softball, and of course football, for men and women alike. Getting involved in these programs is as easy as making a phone ·c~l to the NVA office (6100) or by dropping by (C-2 in the ACC) and asking for more information about a sptcific interest. For those of you who are more money conscious, you can think ofit this way: you're paying for it whether you take advantage of it or not. Some of the latest notices are as follows: 
... PRACTICE--The off-campus soccer team will practice Thursday 9/17 at 4:30 p.m. on the 
Defensive end 

Griffith rebounds from injuries 
By MIKE McMANUS this season. rest. We have nine or ten guys who Sports Writer To some fans the only recog­can play and it ,gives everyone a nizable differences between Gerry chance to play. Coach Meyers has 
Saturday's opening game victory Faust's first Notre Dame squad and done an outstanding job with all of over LSU was accomplished by many Dan Devine's last one are the sophis­us." of the same names that opened the ticated offense and the new blue and ·saturday's victory represented a 1980 season with a resounding vic­gold uniforms. A few new names do personal triumph for Kevin, who tory over Purdue. No less than dot the starting lineup, however, celebrated his return by smothering seventeen oflast year's starters have and defensive lineman Kevin Griffith an Alan Risher fumble only three returned to the college football :wars is one of them, at least this season. minutes into the game. The Irish 
While ~any Notre Dame fans converted the fumble into their first prQbably won't recognize Griffith's touchdown of the year and were off name, rest assured that a number of and running to a 27-9 victory and doctors would recognize both his the number one rating in the name and his knees. Kevin, a 6-3, country. 240-pound senior from Kettering, Kevin, whose friends refer to him Ohio, missed half of his freshman as "Griff," smiles when he looks back
Interhall provides escape 
season with an injured left knee, on the LSU game. "I really enjoyed then bounced back to see extensive that game. I had a great time because action during his sophomore year, our whole team was ready to go. LSU including starting assignments was coming off ofAlabama and then against Michigan, Purdue, South had to face us. We really took it to Carolina and Navy. He was a them and I had a lot of fun just
Sports Writer defensive tackle and noseguard back watching us move the ball up the then, and both positions imperil a field and playing great defense." player with a history of knee Griff realizes, of course, that this 
!UD Kinney 
Inside ND Interhall 

troubles. week's battle with Michigan will be "I missed two games that year be­nowhere near as easy as the LSU con­cause ofan injury to my right knee. I test. "Michigan will be a lot more Edison Road fields. All interested are invited missed the next spring and all oflast physical than LSU was. They've got a to attend. Please bring proof of insurance. season with another injury to my lot of speed and they have a huge MEETINGS--All the captains of the interhall right knee. This past spring was pret­line that is really strong. They're volleyball teams will meet this afternoon at 4 ty much the same thing and this going to try and take it to us. They're 
p.m. in the ACC auditorium. summer it just came around. I wear a still a great team, even though they All interhall soccer captains will meet today at brace for my right knee now, and it lost. I imagine they'll have a tough 4:30p.m. in the ACC auditorium. swells up after games, but I just ice it week so they'll be really fired up for 
A meeting for the captains of the interhall down and itdoesn't bother me." us." water polo teams is scheduled for Thursday, Griffith has arisen like a phoenix The scope ofSaturday's war is not September 17, at 1.4:30 p.m. in the ACC from the ashes this year to take over lost on Griff either. "I think that 
auditorium. the starting assignment at defensive playing in a game like this is an end, a position he enjoys more than honor. I played in it when I was a DEADUNES~-Cross-country league competi­his previous ones. "I like the end sophomore and playing up there in tion consists ofseven-man teams. All members 
position," he notes. "When I played front of one-hundred and five must be from the same hall. The deadline for noseguard I weighed about 230 thousand people is just crazy. I'm entries is tomorrow. Entries may be submitted pounds and I was getting bounced really excited about this game. At to the NVA office. Competition will take place around a lot, plus I got cut all the this kind of leve~ playing against a on the Burke Golf Course, and the time and time by the offensive linemen. You super line like they've got is some­date will be announced. don't last long there unless you have thing you really get up for. It's a great The deadline for entry in the interhall track strong legs. I like end because you challenge." meet is tomorrow. The meet, scheduled for have to be able to run and you have like a career soldier, Kevin Grif­Friday, September 25, is for both Notre Dame to be able to take it on sometimes fith keeps coming back to resume 
men and women. Sign-up at the NVA office depending on the defense." hostilities with the enemy. He's (C-2 in the ACC) or call 6100. Defensive line coach Bill Meyers, overcome a number of crippling in­TRYOUTS--All those. interested in trying out with a lot of talented linemen at his juries and fought his way up the for the men's volleyball club willcompete disposal, has decided to go with two depth chart to get where he is. tonight and Thursday night in the ACC completely different four-man lines Hopefully, Saturday's challenge will that alternate during the game and end like all the rest Kevin has en­
fieldhouse from 7 to 9 p.m. 
Kevin Griffith is pleased with the countered.
CUNIC--A jogging clinic is scheduled for tonight at 7 p.m. in the ACC auditorium. The results thus far. IRISH ITEMS -Starting fullback featured speaker will be Notre Dame's track "The platooning system keeps us Larry Moriarty, who left the LSU 
fresh. For example, on Saturday it game on a golf cart, suffered a
and cross-country coach,]oe Piane. He will be stressing the development of a sound program was very hot and after the first two bruised leg and will miss a couple of based on your own goals. A questton and series the guys on the line were days of practice. He will, however, 
answer period will follow. sucking air and were able to get a be fit to play Saturday afternoon. 


