Viewpoint -page 4 

VOL. XV, NO. 128 an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and saint mary's WEDNESDAY, APRIL 15, 1981 


EDWARDS AIR FORCE BASE, Calif. (AP) -Space shuttle Colum­bia brilliantly wound up its first trial by space-flight yesterday, sailing through the heat ofre-entry to a per­fect wheels-down landing on a sunbaked desert run~vay. 
The moment oftriumph belonged to astronauts John Young and Robert Crippen, who inaugurated a revolutionary space transportation system with a flight lasting two days, six hours. 
"What a way to come to Califor­nia," said Crippen. "'­
"Do we have to take it to the han­gar, Joe?" asked Young after the ship came to a stop. "We have to dust it off first," replkd Shuttle Control's 

Joe Allen. 
The astronauts came out of a l 5 minute communications blackout, the most danger filled time, with a tension breaking message for the shuttle team: "Hello Houston, Columbia here." 
Down, down, the Columbia went, dipping first to one side, then anoth­er. From a hypersonic speed in space it went to supersonic and then to subsonic. Two sonic booms ex­ploded over Rogers Dry Lake. 
"Looking beautiful," Allen said. And it was. 
The ship rolled to a stop on the Rogers Dry Lake runway on the Mojave Desert at I:22 p.m. right on the runway centerline. It had been aloft exactly two days, six hours, 20
Director Brian Wolfe's Equus marks the highlight of this week's 
minutes and S2 seconds.
series ofdirectorfinals. Thefinal performance will begin at8 p.m. in 
"Welcome home Columbia," sa}d
Washington Hall. (Photo by Helen Udar.) 
Al!~n. "Beautiful. Beautiful." 
In recent elections 



Separatistspick up seats 
MONTREAL (AP) -The Parti Quebecois, which advocates in­dependence for the Canadian province ofQuebec, held its strong­est majority yet in the provincial legislature yesterday as a result of a sweeping re-election victory. 
The PQ, which first gained power 
in elections 4 years ago, won 80 
seats in the 122 member Quebec 
National Assembly in Monday's 
provincial elections. The opposition 
Liberal Party won the other 42. 
In the popular vote, with 70 per­
cent of the returns counted early 
yesterday, the left-of-centt:r PQ had 
1,215,523 votes, or 49 percent, and 
the middle-of-the-road Liberals 
I, 14 7, 160, or 46 percent. Although 
the vote was relatively close, the PQ 
won many more seats because its 
vote was more evenly distributed 
ov<:r more electoral districts. 
In the previous 1 I 0 member As­
sembly, the PQ had 67 seats, the 
Liberals 34, the Union Nationale 
five, and the Independents two. Two seats had been vacant. 
The Union Nationale, a con­servative French nationalist parry that governed Quebec as recently as 1970, received only 113,60 I votes in the incomplete returns, si&naling its apparent demise as a significant political force. 
The PQ favors ··sovereignty as­sociation" for Quebec, meaning political independence coupled with continued close economic ties with the rest of Canada. It contends this is the only way for Quebec to end English-Canadian economic 

Perfect re-entry 

Columbia returns home 
, From President Reagan in Wash­shuttle in and to photograph it. ington, came these words: Columbia went aloft Sunday on a "Congratulations on a. job well -white hot tower of flame and per­done." formed nearly flawlessly during its 
FromJohnson Space Center direc­shakedown cruise. Crippen quickly tor Christopher Kraft, who hopes to dubbed her "a champ." send Columbia up for test flight No. "We want ht:r hack in the hangar," 2 in September, "We just got in­Allen, an astronaut, told the 
finitely smarter." astronauts as they began their 36th 
The astronauts had to refnain -and last -turn around Earth. inside for about 45 minutes while Over the Indian Ocean. an hour the ship's remaining deadly fuels before touchdown, Young and Crip­were cleared out and the hatch pen fired the engine to start the ship opened. The first recovery crew on its descent. came away with a glad report -no All communication between problems. spacecraft and ground stopped for 
Enormous crowds, estimated at IS minutes a..'i an ion fence formed 170,000, came in cars and campers around Cc>lumbia. to watch the completion of the long Columbia came into the atmos­heralded and long delayed trial phere nose up to shift the brunt of flight. The desert was bathed in a the 2,7';0 degree heat to the tiles on brilliant mid-morning sun. Chase 
See SHUITLE, page 3
planes were aloft to escort the 

Representatives weigh ticket policy options 
' 
domination and preserve its French other referendum on the separatist language and culture. Four-fifths of questi<~n during its next term in Quebec's population of 6. 3 million power -probably four years. is primarily French speaking. He turned the focus away from 
In a referendum last May, three of separatism and onto the PQ's claims every five Quebec voters rejected to have governed the province ef­the PQ's request for authorization to fectively. Many political analysts negotiate sovereignty-association here said the poor public image of with the rest ofCanada. Liberal leader Claude Ryan, a severe 
As a result, Levesque said during and pedantic former newspaper the recent campaign, that if the PQ editor, also cut sharply into poten­was re-elected he would not call an-tial Liberal strength. 
By DAVID RICKABAUGH 
.\·eniorStaffReporter 
Ticket Managc:r Steve: Orsini, As­sistant Athletic Director Joe O'Brien, and Assistant Ticket Manager Jim Bell met with student hall representatives yesterday in the ACC conference room to discuss proposed basketball home ticket distribution plans for next season. 
Orsini said the plan must, "relieve the embarrassing problem of 'no­shows; and fairly distribute S,OOO tickt:ts to over 6,800 applicants." 
Athletic Director Gene Corrigan 
commented that "we have several 
different options, but we need feed­

back on what you students want in 
order to submit a final plan." 

The distribution plan which 
gained the favor of the 
representatives calls for the basket­ball tickets to he divided into two sets, each containing the same num­ber of"hig" games. This plan guaran­tees the seniors and the juniors both sets oftickets, and at least one set for the sophomores with a predetermined number of tickets 
set aside for a freshman lottery. Ifthe request for tickets by the seniors and juniors is low, the sophomores would be eligible to pick up a second set of tickets. 
Also under consideration is the possibility of changing the graduate students from junior to sophomore status tQ give the sophomore class a better chance at getting both sets of tickets. Ticket Manager Orsini told the; audience, "Don't forget we are not a policy committee. What we say here is not the final word. The plan must be submitted to Fr. Joyce." 
Representatives also suggested a distribution of tickets on a "first come, first serve" plan within the classes rather than through class lot­teries. 
Plans mentioned at the meeting but ruled out included the selling of tickets on a game by game basis and to make the bleacher seats gent·ral admission, then oversell them. 
"We have already decided to have a intra-hall ticket exchange plan in 
See TIX, page 3 


Problems result / 
Boom town strikes it rich again 
By TIM BOVEE 
Associated Press Writer 
ELK CITY, Okla. (AP)-In this second-time boom town perched on the rim of the high plains, there's a place for anyone who wants to work ~ but not c:veryone who comes to work can find a place to live. 
The natural gas boom in Elk City is largely hidden from motorists pa..o;sing through on (nterstate 40, the old Route 66. The forest of derricks that marked earlier boomtimes is gone due to an Oklahoma law limiting drillers to one deep gas well per 640 acres. 
But the figures still add up to "boom town." . WEDNESDAY~=~===========· 
_
February's saks tax collections ­
were 24 percent higher than February ::;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:~F cus
0
I980, and the town's three banks and three savings and loans have es­timated assets of more than S200 mil­lion -about !20,000 for each man, woman and child m this town of l 0,000, 
The 1980 census shows a 29.7 percent growth rate in the l97()s. fownspeople think it was more. Nearly a quarter ofthe I82 phone directory Yellow Pages is for companies in the oil and gas business. 
Elk City first struck it rich on oil in the 1940s and 'SOs. Five years ago another wave o~ prosperity rolled over the town, located I I 0 miles from Oklahoma City, when oilmen began drilling for ga..o; lockt:d deep in the Greater Anadarko Basin. 

Experts estimate the entire basin holds about 88 trillion cubic fe<:t of r<:coverable gas in deep zones below I ';,000 feet. Shallow zones may contain an additional 30 trillion cubic feet or more. 
The boom has brouht money and people to Elk City, but it has also brought trouble, as growth threatens to outstrip the town's capacity to provide essential services like housing. 
ForemanJerry Grace, 31, supervises two rigs north of town. Ifa man gets off the bus in Elk City, broke and unskilled, Grace says he'll put him to work that afternoon, at SIO an hour. With an annual SO percent turnover in rough~ . necks, Grace's operation is hungry for men. 
But some who come to work turn around and leave for want ofshelter. 
Garry Dickson, 29, and his wife, ShirTty, 1.7, drove into Elk City on~cent 
rainy day from Grenada, Miss., their worldly goods piled in the back of a 
pickup truck. Dickson, a welder helper who has been out of work for four 
months, was offered a job at a nearby pipeline. 
The Dicks,;ns had been on the road three days. 
"We found some little motels, one room, no phones, no ice buckets -just 
a bed, a bathroom and a TV. And they wanted 120 a night. That's the cheapest . 
we could find,;, the travel-weary Dicksun said. 
See TOWN, page 3 ­


News Brie/§ 
Wednesday, April15, 1981 -page 2 
c===~~=======*====================================~ 
by The ObserZJcr and The Associated Press 

Two professorsat the University ofNotre Dame received major fellowships to assist in financing advanced study in their chosen fields. Donald P_ Kommers, director ofthe Center for Civil and Human Rights, will continue a project, "Liberty, Equality and Fraternity in German and American Constitutional Law: The Quest for a Public Philanthropy," with funds from the Rockefeller Foundation Humanities Fellowhsip and West Germany's Alexander von Hum­boldt Foundation. Linda S. Beard, assistant professor of English, received a Rockefeller Fellowship for a study of "The Human Cost of Apartheid: Unbridged Chasms in Contemporary Southern African Literature." First-hand experience ofSouth African life and interviews with important writers and critics will supplement her literary analysis. The Max Planck Institute ofForeign and Public Law at Heidel­berg University, Germany and Yale Law School in the United States arc 
the research sites of Kommer's project. -The Obsert'er 
Early repayment of Guaranteed Student Loans could save both students and the government hundreds of dollars, under a plan suggested 1by the Pennsylvania Higher Education Assistance Agency. "The less time a student-borrower takes to repay a loan, the less it costs the government for special allowances and interest benefits and the less it costs students for interest repayments," says the PHEAA study. As an example, the agency explained the savings on a S4,000 GSL borrowed at 7 percent interest. Ifa student took the full 10 years to repay, the ultimate cost would be $5,573. But under the proposed plan, if a student repaid it within 30 days after graduation, the agency could discount the loan to S3,200 -actually less than the principal. Similarly, at the end of one year repayment would be just S3, 713-The federal government would make up the difference to len­ders, and would still save money in the long run. And the plan would not affect access to new loans, as would changes in GSL policy propo~ed b)' the Reagan administration. But the best n~ws yet is that students seem to find the plan feasible. A preliminary PHEAA survey of Pennsylvainia borrowers showed that more than half the students 
would be likely to opt for early repayment. -Collegiate Hedlines 
Coca-Cola, the worldwide American symbol damned as decadent by China's leaders during the Cultural Revolution, is being bottled for the first time in Communist China. The first bottles ofCoke made in China since the Communists took over in 1949 began rolling out of a plant in the middle of a rice paddy outside Peking this week. The plant, which opens officially today, will produce two million cases a year ofCoke. Its product is called "kekoukele," for "happy and delicous." -AP 
In MOSCOW, Tass reported the successful landing ofthe u.s~ space shuttle Columbia yesterday and said the flight was "of special significance not so much for research and academic organizations as for the Pentagon." "A great role is attached to the shuttle program in the testing of various types of the latest weapons, which the United Sta!es plans to place in outer space," the Soviet news agency said. ­
AP 
Saint Mary's College recently received s6oo,ooo in the form of stocks, bonds and cash from a matured trust. The trust, created by Helen ()'Laughlin, a 1909 graduate of the College, is designated to increase the general endowment fund through invest­ments. In the past, the O'Laughlin family, ofwhich four daughters have attended Saint Mary's, has contributed greatly to the College. In 1956, Mary O'Laughlin-Gillen, a 1906 graduate, awarded $230,000 and I 500 volumes for the Saint Mary's Alumnae Centennial Library. Robert O'Laughlin also contributed $115,000. Sister Fran<; is Jerome, formerly Susan O'Laughlin, held positions as vice-president ofthe Col­lege and as a professor of Latin and Greek until her death in 1948. A family .gift in the 1950s enabled the building of O'Laughlin 
Auditorium. -The Obsen-'er 

A law finn hired by the city ofl.ouisville may file suit against Ralston Purina Co. later this week to recover the cost from a series of sewer blasts that rocked the city Feb. 13. City officials declined to make detailed comment after a Monday meeting with attorneys from Wyatt, Tarrant and Combs, hut former Gov. Bert T. Combs, a partner in the law firm who was at the meeting. said only Ralston Purina would be sued. Aldermanic President Michael Carrell did not deny a lawsuit, but he would not say who would be sued or how much would be sought. Ralston and Louisville's Metropolitan Sewer District already , have been sued for more than S227 million in connection with the explosions, which occurred in sewers in the Old Louisville and Parkhill neighborhoods. The sewer company has charged that Ralston's Soybean Division Plant is responsible for the blasts because it wao; the source of the hexane gas that exploded. Ralston already faces more than half a dozen lawsuits as a result ofthe sewer blasts. ­
AP 
Calvin M. Bower, professor of music at the University of North Carolina. will assume the chairmanship ofthe Departmeot of Music at the University of Notre Dame next September, it has been announced by Prof. Timothy O'Meara, provost. He succeeds Prof. Wil­liam Cnny, who has l·haired the department since 1972. Agraduate of Southwestern Louisiana Institute, Bowt.·r received his M.A. and Ph.D. in musicology from Pt·abody College of Vanderbilt University. After Fulbright study at the University ofCologne, he taught five years at the University of Tennessee before: cnming to North Carolina in 1969. 
Sunny and mild. High in the mid and upper 50s. Clear at night and cool with a low in the mid and upper ,30s..\lostly sunny tomorrow and warmer. High in the mid 60s to about 70. -AP 

A weekend ofshame 


Last weekend, a stranger shamed me into re­evaluating myself and everything I have done for the past several months. The stranger's name is Glenn Rut­herford, and he is the metropolitan columnist for the 
Louisville Courier-journal. 
We crossed paths at the annual Indiana Collegiate Press Association convention. He was one of the guest lecturers; I was representing The Obseroer at the con­vention, along with Editor-in-Chiefjohn McGrath. 
Rutherford lectured. We listened. We listened hard, as did dozens of aspiring journalists attending his lecture. The man had journalism in his soul; writing was a way of life for him. He was trying to impart that at­titude to his audience. 
The technical advice he gave was nothing special ­it was the stuff of which boring textbooks are made: "write short sentences and paragraphs," "usc active verbs," "read Faulkner and Fitzgerald," and so on_ The basics covered in a beginning English class, really, and nothing Rutherford's audience hadn't heard many times before. 
Rutherford wasn't concerned about that, and neither was anyone who was listening to him. He gave these simple rules vitality and import, because he made it clear that he believed in were honored by the Association for ··caring about what they wrote": News Editor John Higgins won tht: investigative reporting award for his stories on the strip-search incident earlier this semester; former Editor-in-Chief Paul Mullaney and sports writer Kelly Sullivan received honorable mentions in the column and sports story categories, respectively; and Anthony­
Walton garnered a second prize for news analysis. 
I also was happy that most members attending the conference were envious ofThe Observer and its com­puter operation. Their envy made me eager to get back here to continue improving our system -and to begin caring about my work. 
With this renewed sense of purpose, I hopped into 
my car with my editor-in-chief to begin the trek home. 
But my car chose an inop­

them and lived by them., He 
portune moment to stop also made it clear that moving. In fact, it chose technical skill wao; only a three inopportune moments small part of what it takes to to stop moving. Emotion be a good writer. The key to without motion has little good writing was "caring value. about everything you Stranded in the wee hours write." ofSunday morning on a dark 
At this point ofhis lecture and threatening road some­I began to feel shamed. I where in Indiana in a car that have not written much late­wouldn't move, I wondered ly, let alone much I really if there was any value in a cared about (except Moose renewed sense of purpose. Control). What shamed me Rutherford was no saint, af­more was that I felt the same ter all -a divorced father of indifference toward all my two boys, much of his endeavors. Listening to Rut­lecture had been devoted to herford, I began to realize comments on his lingering that I have been going hangover and his truly jour­
through the motions. 
"The goal of a writer is to evoke an emotional response from the reader," he said. "You want to create in his mind a vivid and continuous dream. You can't do that unless you are writing about something that touches you deeply. 
"If you want to be a good writer, you must expose your emotions_ If you can't be hurt, you can't be a writer." 
I run the computer system at The Obsen1er. Writing is no longer a focus of my life, but as I listened to.Ruther­ford I wondered if I would ever be able to be a good writer. I reflected a little longer and wondered ifl could ever be a good anything: Could I ever care enough about what I was doing to be "good"? 
nalistic attraction to alcohol. 
His elitist attitude was annoying, too. Rutherford was a writer's writer, convinced, it seemed, that writers (and all artists) were ble~sed with a heightened sen­Sitivity to the human condition -a sensitivity that only artists could share. As a computer operator, I was in­sulted by the implication. 
Suddenly, I realized that I was analyzing again, not feeling. 
Then I thought of colleagues who had won awards because they put their hearts in their work, adding feeling to analysis in an attempt to create a dream. 
I thought of a computer system I am paid to improve to help them create thal dream. Last weekend, a stranger shamed me into living. 

I have been going through the motions at work, at 
Observer notes______,

home and among my friends. Motion without emotion is oflittlt: value. My computer terminal is capable ofthat · much. 
The Obsert'er is always looking for new reporters. When Rutherford was done talking. I had been 
No experience is necessary. If you are interested, . shamed back into life. I began to participate again. 
contact one ofour news editors at 8661. I took pride in knowing that four Obsen1er staffers 

Design Editor...-.................. Maura Murphy Design Assistant ................ Usa Bontempo Typesetter ............................... Bruce Oakley News Editor........................ Tim Vercdlptti Copy l:.aitor ............................ Valt-rie Evans Sports Copy Editor .............................. Grass Typist ............................... Michelle: KeUeher 
,~f) Day Editor·······-/-······· Tim_vercell~mi .~MC Day Editor.. /···········-··-· Cect: Bahles Ad Design············-······························ Woody Photographer ............................ Helrn Odar Gut•st Appearances ............. The Planet M Kelly '"Prize Lady" Sullivan JMH, TJ, RVB, Post cereals Tara of Powt"r Mary Fran "Yearbook Photog" Callahan Ryan "Boat Pt"rson" VerBerkmoes lnga & the Trash Collecto~ 
The SRcond Comings 
ofHelen and Anthony 
The Observer (USPS 598 920) IS published Monday through Fr1day except durmg exam and vacatiOn penods The Observer IS published by the students of Notre Dame and Samt Marys College Subswpt1ons may be purchased for $30 per year ($15 per semester) by wrrtmg The Ob­server, P 0 Box 0 Notre Dame. In· d1ana 46556 
The Observer IS a member of the 
Assoc1ated Press All reproduction 
nghts are reserved 



FREE FLYING LESSONS 
PLUS OVER $16,000 INCOME YOUR FIRST YEAR 
And that's only the start of your career as a pilot/navigatar. An Air Force officer. You'll acquire valuable experience that will pay off in civilian life like a head start on a commercial fly­ing career ... or impressive execu· tive credentials to go with the degree you're earning now· proven leadership ability and million-dollar responsibility. You can earn 
$28.00_0 per year alter 4 years. . · 
Benet1ts including 3U days paid vacation annually, world-wide a1r 1ravel, medical care and much more. It's a great way to serve your country. If you're between 20% and 27. a senior or graduate-college student, you may qualify. 
Air Force•.. A Great Way of Life 
The Aor Force Polot and Navogator lnten11ew team woll be at the South Bend Ramada Inn on April 24 Call 219-233-4747 for an appointment 
I ) ) } 

The Observer Wednesday, April15, 1981 -page 3 
At meeting last night 
The following are entry forms for various events associated with the
Speakers advise o-c students 
, GREENTOWN GLASS FESTIVAL. 
The Off-Campus Commission leviate the problems by "getting to pointed out that good neighbors will conducted an advisory program last know a lot of your neighbors." He · "watch each other's houses." 
For each event you wish to enter, mail the 
night in LaFortune Little Theater for advised that.. in the meantime, stu-Quigley reminded students that in all current and prospective off­dents take precautionary measures, the event. of an emergency, they 
appropriate form and entry fee to: 
campus residents. Thirty students such as the marking of valuable should dial 91 1 to summon help. were present to hear Off-Campus items, and that they should leave the One member of the Off-Campus 
Brad Bagwell 

Commissioner Kathy Jurado, Prof lights on when no one is home. Commission, Bill Christopher, sug­

31 Hidden Acres 

Arthur Quigley, director of the Quigley advised students that gested that students might take ad­

Greentown, IN 46936
Northeast Neighborhood center, many residents of the northeast vantage of tenant insurance, and Jim Masters, assistant district at­neighborhood are 55 or older, and available from most insurance com­
r-------------------------------I
1 GREENTOWN GLASS FESTIVAL TRIATHLON
torney for the city ofSouth Bend. that students ought to treat these panies, as a means of protecting pos­Ms. Jurado opened the meeting by neighbors with respect. Also, he sessions. 
I Sunday June 14, 1981. I reminding students that the Off­
1 Includes each of the following events: 0.8 mile swim I 
Campus Housing office is available 
I 37 mile bike ride, and 9 mile road run. Registration 1 
"to help the students in any 
I material include a doctor's certificate and release of I 
problems with landlords or anyone 
• • . Shuttle 
1 liability form. No classes. Ages 18 -45, limited to 
1

else." 
I first 60 entries. Entry fee: $25.00 I
Students are in part to blame for 
I I 
many of the problems that have Tens of thousands of spectators
continuedfrom page I 

I Name: I
plagued off-campus dwellers in the clustered at stipulated spots around 
II II 
past year, according to Masters. its belly. Free and weightless in the dry lake: invited YIPs scattered 
Address:
"Students don't realize that other space, Columbia now became an 80 under giant canvas awnings, perhaps people live here,". he explained ton glider -the biggest ever flown. 40,000 car and camperloads of 
1 City: State: Zip: 1 
Masters expressed hope that stu· "Looking good underneath," said private citizens packed into a pubtic 
I Shirt size xs· S M L XL I
dents would make an effort to al· a chase plane pilot as Columbia was viewing site. coming down. And eight minutes af. Greg Ahern spoke for all of them. 

1--------------------------------,I GREENTOWN GLASS FESTIVAL S-MILE ROAD RUN I 
ter the landing, the convoy director He said he was there S<J "I can tell my 
1 June 13, 1981 Entry fee: $4.00 1
said an intitial inspection showed kids I was here for the first one." 
1
nothing wrong. 

Name: I
• • • Tix 

II II
The spacecraft's sophisticated computers, which delayed the 

Address: 
scheduled launch by two days last 

1 City: State: Zip: 1
continuedfrom page I 
• Town

week. controlled most of the re­• • 
I Phone: Age: M F I
order to help eliminate the problem entry. At about 40,000 feet, Young of'no-shows."' stated O'Brien. took over, operating the fla t ps, 
. I

continuedfrom page I 

1-------------------------------1I 
Under the plan students without devons, rudders and speed brakes 
1 GREENTOWN GLASS FESTIVAL--1 
tickets may purchase the91 on a one for the tricky final approach. 1 Houses are for sale in Elk City and 
I KOKOMO RAQUETBALL CLUB TOURNAMENT I 
ticket basis from students who are At the speed of sound, he took low-rent apartmems are available 
I June 13 & 14, 1981 Entry fee: $17.00 I 
not planning to attend the game Columbia eastward over the run­for those below the income ceiling. with the exchanged tickets stamped way, made aU-turn to use up speed But for people like Dickson -too 
I Name: I 
II II
for validation when pulled from the and energy and came down -poor to buy and too rich for sub­ticket book. textbook style -nose up to put the sidized housing -settling in Elk 
Address: 
Students should recieve applica­weight on the main landing gear. He City can be a nightmare. 
I City: State: Zip: I 
tions for football and hockey tickets hit-the runway on the centerline at Growth "has put pressure on us to 
I I 
I Shirt size XS S M L XL I
within the next two weeks, with the about 21 5 mph, about 30 miles fas­work harder at planning," said 
basketball ticket plan and other ter than a jet airliner and About one Mayor Larry Wade, who doubles as 
I Sex: M F I 
sports ticket applications arriving seventy-fifth ofhis orbital speed. publisher ofthe local newspapa. later. Bell said earlier mailing of the "You can't believe what kind of But Wade denied that Elk City is a 
Make check or money order payable to:
L------------------------------~ 
packets, should insurt· their arrival flying machine this is," said Young. boom town, at least in the rough-
GREENTOWN GLASS FESTIVAl
and-tumble sense ofthe 1920s. .____________________________. hut if a student does not receive a After touchdown, Young and packet they should get one at the Crippen were held aboard to give. "The oil and gas industry is so ticket office in the ACC. "sniffer" crews time to test for dan­much more sophisticated. People 


r·--i)QRM:LIFE
Orsini said he expt·cts a decision gerous gases and to hook up air con: have to know what they're doing on the plans within the next two ditioning hoses and · other more than in the shallow drilling 
I
weeks. equipment. days," he said. 
I LRAMPING
Jeremiah Sweeny's Presents a: 


YOUR STYLE? 
I

I
TAX. MAN PARTY 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 

NOTREDAME 
I 




AVE. APTS 
I I

2bedrooins contpletely furnished co111plete kitchen off-streetparking up to 4 students 
$340-$360/~nonth call.234-664 7 
~~OM________MI--~~------~M----•--------·----------------~----.W~--· 


-
Wednesday, April 15, 1981 -page 4



Editorials 

Stalking the elusive education 
Once upon a time there was a middle school complete with wall­young man in elementary school lc:ss classroom and computer taught 
Anthony Walton 
who loved school and learning, hut 
classes, a public high school based was borc::d hy the repititious rotc on the sarne theories with modular learning. His teachers were con-scheduling and open campus, and a 
Outside Wednesday
. cc::rned and emhusiastic, hut they strict Catholic high school that : could not 'rise above the stifling prided itselfon its discipline and the nature ofthe material. quality ofits education. And I think it even more pronounced than the The young man began looking for­
is safe to say that I didn't learn any­traditional prep school-] t ""Y League ward to a srorkd public high school 
thing. connt:ction that is normally thought because of the promised emancipa­Oh sure, I can write these words of as the pinnacle of American 
tion of modular scheduling and and balance my checkbook (bar-ely), education. This is because the rest of open campus. hut found a reality of 
and read a newspaper and perform us are not being educated in the hon·d tt:achers. sullen students, and 
all the other basic tasks that would public and parochial schools. When a general misdirection of energies he-expt:cted of a high school I speak of education, I am referring and resources. whi<:h created an at­graduate, but I still feel like there is to the developmt:nt as well as train­mosphere of indifference and something missing, some surt:ty of ing of young minds to analyze and 
misunderstanding. He left the public method and understanding that I create on their own instead ofexist­
high school for more discipline and missed on my travds through the ing as passive acceptors of stimuli. dire<:tion at the lo<:al Catholic high American school system. Perhaps it The current educational system ex­school. hut instead found a hopeless­is just me, but it's somt:thing that a ists to create drones to work in the 
ly system conductt:d by a group of number of my friends talk about. I(s marketplace, whether it be as blue \Yell-meaning hut anachronistic something that we read about collar laborers or white collar nuns. everyday, the:: columns asking why managers. 

His focus tht:n shifted to college, Johnny can't read and why SAT American education has become his last d1anct: and the last frontier scores are falling <:very year, and vocational ratht:r than instructional. in his educational journey. He. knew why students art: ever more A student is programmed into a cer­that college would be the answer to materialistic and apathetic. Rolling tain track from a young age, usually his qut:st; he would join a com­Stone referred to it in a recent issue determined by the economic stand· munity of scholars all dedicated to as "Scared Serious." Anotht·r friend ing ofhis parents, and follows it to its 
the same goal, to achieve a real of mine says that students arc now completion, whether it he a.<; a t:ducation. He selected one of the more concernt:d with t:arning than grocery checker or a pre-med stu­
better schools in tht: midwest, some learning, as tht: rush to the profes­dent at Yale. Tht:re is very little in would say the country, tht: fabied sions indicates. An explanation for the way of transmitting values from :'-Jotrt: Dame. Was Notre Dame the this can be found in the current generation to generation, or of answer to his quest? Yes, no, economic situation, which does not creating the consciousness neces­sometimes, maybe, and never. knd itself to "frivolities," but I think sary for the American society to run By now you have probably it goes deeper than that. successfully. If it is the duty of the 
guessed that the young man is me. 
American high schools, with all citizen to be the backbone of the When I look at the state ofeducation the controversy that surrounds society and make informed choices in this country I can't help but feel busing, racial tensions, discipline, as an elector, the system will not that there is something wrong with drugs, etc. arc slowly losing their function if there is an undered­
l 
the system. I have spent my school ability to tt:ach in any kind ofserious ucated ma."is that does not have the years in search of an education and fashion. More and mort: it is neces­ability to be an dfective factor in the have yet to find a school or a system sary to attend exclusive private process. This is how we end up with that I would call satisfactory. I have schools in order to receive any peanut farmers and B-movie actors been through the traditional public semblance of an education, and this as prt:sidents. This is why we have ekmenrarr school. a "progressive" is creating an t:du<:ated elite that is made no progress in equalizing tht: 
racial and sexual wrongs in our t society, and why wt: are moving backwards in the name of progress.
~· 


Doonesbury Garry Trudeau 
Think about it: Where have all the 
I 
great statesmen gone? Why are there no more Teddy Roosevelts, 
IIJ PROBUM. I JlJST/IJ4NTEl} 

Woodrow Wilsons, Franklin 
70 f£T/JOIIJN 70 ~~1­

Roosevclts, orJohn Kennedys?
()JS CC/.£8RAT!f.l3. I WAS 

When I look at my education,
JISTACCEPTCfJ FOR MEMJER-711£ 

which is suppost:dly excellent, and
SHIPIN THe TR/lATE!?AL-NHAT, 

the things going on around mt:, I get scart:d, because education is the foundation of the future. What is going to happen to the masses of un­educated inner city children as they grow into a high-tech sodt:ty that has pasSt:d them by? What about those of us who arc supposed to he formulating the social theories that will lead to a better socit'ty? Where is the new t:conomic theory that can replace Keynt:s the way it replaced laissez-faire capitalism? Why hasn't there ever been a truly great
tr5AftJIJ.Jfi?RJL lmfi?NA­
Amt:rican thinker? Perhaps theSt:
TIONAL CIJT!Rit fF5Tirf5­
NO 

questions don't have any answers,
MalAN!J FINANCIERS /AIH/{}1 
K/0­

but the answer might be in the
Pef?/OfJICAL.LYM££5 INSC­
fJING?

C/l&T 70 5HAPt ~ fJE5TINY 
American educational system. There
;--­


Of TH& f.lbUJ! 
is something clearly lacking in a sys­tem that is deteriorating instead of improving. There's a commercial that says a mind is a terribk thing to waste. To waste an education is even worSt:. 
Anthony Walton's "Outside Wed­nesday" appears each week on the editm'ialspage. Walton willdiscuss education in America and at Notre Damefurther next week. 

Viewpoint 


Editor's Note: Every week, "Viewpoint" features responses from people within tbe ND-SMC community on questions of local, na· tiona/ and international importance. Submissions should be no more than 100 words, and should be sent to the Editorhlls Editor, 
P.O. Box Q on campus, by Wednesday noon. 
This wt:ek's question: Do you feel the Reagan administration should send military aid to El Salvador? 
l am completely opposed to military aid as a matter of personal conviction. in keeping with the Catholic Bishops' position, and in reaction to the Government's simplistic argumentation. 
The Bishops' position recognizes the complex situation in El Sal­vador as their January statement strt:sses....Thc Bishops' opposition is hast:d on the conviction that "no real evidence exists that the g<wern­ment ofEl Salvador ha.o.; brought the security forces undt·r control." 
As for our government's rationale, I fear it to he shortsighted and too self-serving. To suggest El Salvador as "our hack yard," or our policy toward El Salvador as a stand against the spread ofCommunism, or El Salvador as a case of a bdeagut:red nation requesting the inter~ vention of Uncle Sam is more suted for the movies than for the best interests ofEl Salvador. 
Consequently, military aid is not the answer; rather: economic aid could help to lessen the plight of the peopk....The fundamt:ntal ques­. tion for our government, and the cause of democracy is: does military 
aid or economic aid win the hearts and minds of the pt.'ople? 
Bro. Rod St;·uble Stanford Hall 

When the president ofNotre Dame addressed a group ofalumni and advised them to become politically active for the proper welfare of their country, and to bear a public rt:sponsihility along with their academic training, Jose Duarte (NO, '48) was greatly impressed. As a consequence he became active in politics, and to the best of my knowledge he was active with a party of Christian Democrats which concerned itselfwith the improvement ofthe peopk. 
He has endured many difficult personal and physical times....Duarte's life was not jeopardized by the poor. Because of his staunch advocacy of the welfare of his c6untry, he has bt:en beaten, maimed and exiled. 
President Duarte has stated on several occao;ions that his country did not want military equipment from the United States; rather, all they wanted was food and medical supplies. In one interview Duarte was <L"iked if his country needed more arms in order to compete with tht: well-supplied guerrilla forces. He replied that rather than depend only on the strength of more arms, they were confident to rely upon the strength oftheir principles. 
Duarte is a dedicated individual who... must treat the great multi­plicity of problems that wet: not of his making and for whkh there is no simplistic solution.... I know Duarte. Ht: is a good and moral man. I trust him. He is dedicating his life and career in the welfare of his country. 
}amesA. McCarthy Prof Emeritus, Cit•il Engineering South Bend 
The most ft:asihle and humane solution in El Salv:tdor is for the economic agrarian reform to succeed. This will he done by l"Stablish­ing the military/civilian junta as being credible and by supporting them with economic aid. 
Unfortunately, Prt:~ident Reagan views the leftist threat to be a major one in Central America. There havt· been more arms Sl·nt to El ~alvador in the last year than the last 20 combined Th<"ir rnilitarv warehouSt:s are filled. . 
This ~d may result in unwanted side effects. The adJitional aid will increase the level of corruption of tht: security for<.'es within the military. These forces arc responsible for over half of the deaths in El Salvador. For tht: last 100 yt:ars the country has het'n under military and aristocratic control. Only in the last year and a halt ha." a civilian had a say in the country's affairs. The situation, esp•·cially with the selection of Duarte as president, had been moving in the U.S.'s favor. Why reverse strategy now when the original one wa..' effective? 
.Jeffrt!)' M. Cboppin Stanford Hall 

Next week's question: Do you feel a Notre Dame student 
should be allowed to sit in on meetings of the Board ofTrus­tees? Deadline: next Wednesday, noon. 

Editorial Board and Department Managers 
Editor-in-Chief......... . ...................John \1cGra£h SMC Executive Editor .......... ........Mary Agnes Carey
• Box Q. Notre Dame, IN 46556 

.'tlanaging Editor ......................................TomJackman SMC Neu•s Editor................... . ....... Cathy Domanico
The qbserver is an independent newspaper published by tht' srudt'nt-. ut the 
Executit'f! .Veu•s Editor .............................. lynne Daley Photo Editor............................. ............... . ...John Macor
Umverstty of N<?tre Dame du La_c and Saint Mary's College. It does not neu.·-.-.aril: 
Neu·s Editor ..... ..................................Tim Vercelloni reflect the poltoes of the adm1mstrarion of eithn institution. The news is reported 
.VI'U'S Editor........... . .............................. John Higgins Business Manager ....... ......................... Rich Coppola as ~cc_urarely and _as ?bjecrively as possible Editorials represent rhe opinion of a Senior Copy Editor ................. .....Mary Fran Callahan Controller.................................................... ...joe Mulflur 
naJonty of the Ednonal Board. Commentaries, opinions, and leners are the view-. Sports Editor.. . ....... Michael Ortman Adt'f!rlising Manager ...... ............................Mark Etlis Jf rhe1r authors. Column space is available ro all members of the communirv. and Features t'ditor.............. ..........................Rick Hermida Production Manager.. . ....... Ryan Ver Berkrnoes Circulation Mar~ager ....................Tom MacLennan
,he free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters. 1s encou~aged. 


Molarity 



The Daily Crossword 

Tuesday's Solution 
©1981 by Chicago Tribune-N.Y. News Synd. Inc. All Rights Reserved 


FIRST & FOREMOST 
Wednesday, April15, 1981 -page 5 
Michael Molinelli 
ACROSS 1 Barbara or Hoople 6 Joyce's land 10 Dillon, to friends 14 River into the Orinoco 15 Kind of cloth 16 Exchange premium 17 Showed old 
movies 18 Legal 20 Standards 22 Speeches 
for other. speakers, for short 
23 Motherless 
calf 24 Trial 25 Steeples 27 Ole, for 
one 
28 Facial spasm 29 Father 
Junipero­31 Settle accounts 35 The sego's 
state 37 Zoo sounds 39 Takeout 40 Cotton 
units 42 Propellant 44 Govt. agcy. 45 Minor ills 



47 MacDonald, 
for one 49 Frameworks 51 Zenana 
• 52 Jazzman 
Fats 53 Dashed 56 Legal 58 Part of 
TNT 59 Dingle 60 City in 
Nicaragua 61 Anoint, 
old style 62 Lilted 63 Gest 64 Hebrew 
feast 
DOWN 1 Connelly 2 Mime 
.3 Legal 4 Webster, 
for one 5 Welshes 6 Thecow 7 Jot 8 Inlet 9 Total 
10 Was impor­tant 11 Greek market 12 Alps 
region 13 Trifles 19 Less than 
21 Stair part 24 Chicago's airport 
25 Lastof a cigar 26 Century plant fiber 
27 Ending for auto and demo 
30 Kennedy and 
Bampton 32 Legal 33 Helmsman's 
direction 34 Kind of 
book 36 Flat out 38 Less 
hazardous 41 Fastener 43 Boat 
basins 46 Robin, 
for one 48 Of frogs 49 Kind of 
lily 
50 Emcee 
Steve 51 Exhaust 52 Pranksters 53 -gin 54 Gardner 55 Manof 
accomplish­ments 57 Sweet producer 



sign-ups will continue until Friday, May 1 at NDISMC Student Activities Offices 
Trip will be limited to 300 people. 
Absolutely no reservations can be taken in the Fall since final room list must be sent to the hotel in May. 
Please bring $50 non-refundable deposits. 
Catnpus 
•12:15 
p.m. -lenten mass, fr. griffin, Iafortune rathskellar, all arc welcome. 

• 
3 p.m. -lecture, "on his 'vorks, on her weaves," artist jack olson and weaver mahoob shahzaman. annenberg auditorium. 

• 
3:30 p.m. lecture, "cell mapping and a m<.·thod ofglobal analysis for non·linear dynami­cal systems," prof c.s. hsu, u. calif. berkley. 30.3 cushing. 

•4:20 
p.m. -physics collo­quium, "path integral approach to the nuclear many-body problem," dr. john hlaizot, u. of ill. 118 nieuwland. 

•dinner 
-daisy sale, dining halls ( nd and smc) an tostal committee 

•6:30 
p.m. lecture in spanish, "el greco," jose garcon, culver military academy. car­roll hall ( smc). spons: .dept. of languages. 

•7,
10 p.m. -film, "the robe," spons: nd film club, engr. aud., Sl. 

•7 
p.m. -christian concert, terry talbot, spiritual rock ofnd. library auditorium. 

•7:30 
p.m. lecture, "imageability and urban plan­ning in renaissance ferrara," pro( charles rosenburg, room 202 architecture building. 

•8 
p.m. -theatre, "equus," dir. 


by  brian  wolfe,  wash.  hall,  
spons:  dept.  of  comm.  and  
theatre.  

... Hoops 
continuedfrom page 6 
two scoring ten of the team's I 5 
points between them. 
As always, there were great and not-so-great performances on all the courts. Mark Schonhoff hit 9 of his I I shots· leading his team, Gone With The Wind, to an 11 point vic­tory over Skywalkers. 
Assistant basketball coach Pete 
Gillen was 3-12, as his team, Fame­
less Outcasts dropped a tough two­
JX>int decision. Maggie Lally and 
Shari Matvey were both kept off the 
scoreboard, Lally despite five shots 
and Matvey through just one:, as 
Mini-Maggie lost by six. Sean 
Chandler hit 8 of his 26 attempts to 
lead Captain Vaseline~, to that win. 
Fluid l;orce downed We jam­min'..., 23-21, in one overtime game, and Humor at the Expl·nse ofOthers turned away Logan's Leapers, hy the same score, in another. In the most one-sided games of the day, The In­terferons ousted Ist Round Losers by a 1 S point margin, and Oral... knocked off Cocoon... by the same spread. 
Bookstore BriefS -Good news ;md bad news was in the mail for tht· Bookstore Committee today. Rusty Lisch, the only man t·ver to play in five consecutive finals, and nov.· a quarterback with the St. Louis Car­dinals, will be in attendance for this year's finals, and playing in the All­Star game. Fritz Hoefer, one of the founders of Bookstore, and the man with the original idea for a "playground tournament," will also make the trek to South Bend for the April 2Sth celebration. 
• However, Vince Meconi, another ofthe tournament founders, and the first Bookstore Commissioner, had to send his regrets. 
After today's action, the tourna­ment field will have been narrowed to 64, from the original 384. Begin­ning after Easter break, teams will have to play and win every day in or­
der to advance. 

.. 
-

--------------------------------------------~-­
'fhe Observer Wednesday, April15, 1981 --page 6 
By FRANK LaGROTIA and SKIP DESJARDIN

Third 
Sports Writers 

This is the stuff of which
round 
Bookstore legends are made. 

Duane Dickens and Tim Collins playing two-on-five for nearly fifteen minutes, and trailing Slaughterhouse
Bookstore 
S, 3-2. Suddenly, racing over the horizon come three men, ripping off sweatshirts and dropping them as
action they run. Stacy Toran, Mansel Car­ter, and Greg Bell arrive in time to save the day, and the game, as the T.P.'s go on to destroy their op­
continues 
ponents by a score of21-11. 


INII lr 5lr ll 
OGANIZATIONAL MEETING 

Sunday March 8th 7:00pm 
LaFortune Uttle Theatre 

If you have a $10,000 job waiting for you, you could have an American Express® Card right now. 
Trade the card you've been using every day t(x the Card you'll be using the rest ofyour life. 
You're about to leave school and enter a whole new world. You've got great expectations. So does American Express. For you. 
That's why American Express has created a special plan that reduces the usual application requirements-so you can get the Card before you finish schooL 
All you need to apply is a $10,CXJO job or the promise ofone. . 
You'll u~ the Card the wealthy anJ the. well~ 
Collins, in the same game, shoot­ing an incredible 9-of-1 0 and leading all scorers. 
Bell, Bookstore X's Julius Erving clone, going up in the air again and again to put on a slam-dunk display to easily rival those of the old ABA All-Star games. 
Aggravated Assault and Dana's 
Demons, battling long after dark op. 
the Stepan courts_ Dick Stack goes 
11-for-35, and Ed Barchini hits 10 of 
his 18 to lead Aggravated... to a 27­
25 overtime win. Not to be outshot, 
Mark Fisher paces the losers with an 
11-25 night. Team namesake Dana 
Crowley loses his battle with dark­
ness, making 2 ofhis 24 shots. 
There was other action as well, though maybe not as legendary, as the tenth edition of Bookstore Bas­ketball moved into its third round yesterday. 
The fourth-ranked Assassins, led by Bob Crable's 7-10 shooting, and teammate Nick Vehr's 9-17 perfor­mance, defeated Slime Train 21-16. Mike Cahill and Miguel Sagardia each contributed five points in a 
losing effort.  
The  tournament's  No.  6  team,  
Chipigula... cashed in  on  Gilberto  
Salinas'  8-1 3  shooting  to  take  an  

eight point win over the Sophis­ticados. John Pearl went 5-18, but it was all for naught, as he could not lift the Sophisticados over the imposing Salinas and his teammates. 
Gregg Williamson and Jim Stone each shot 50 percent from the field, 
. 8-16 and 5-10, respectively, as No. 7 
TB Express downed Vanilla Thunder 
by 12. 

The Masters of Disaster also won by 12, defeating The Good, The Bad, The Ugly, and The Ugly and The Ug-
SUMMER STORAGE SPACE 
Special discount for XDISMC students Security Patrol Checks 
259-088& 
SELl LOCK S!OBAGE Or MCKIXLEY 816 last McKinley Mishawaka 
traveled use for business lunches, buying clothes for work, paying for vacations -for all sorts of after,school activities. 
One of the surest ways to establish yourself is to start out as if you were already established. And just having the Card gives you the chance to establish a solid credit rating. 
So trade up now. You'll find application forms on campus bulletin boards. Or call toll~free 800-528-8000 and ask for a Special Student Appli~ cation. And set yourself up for next year before 
you finish this one. 
The American Expres/Card. Don't leave school without it. 

ly. Chris Brown was 5-7, and Mike Boushka was 6-12 to lead the Mas­ters. 
In a big showdown on Bookstore 9, former varsity basketball walk-on Tim Healy led his team, Head over Heels, to a five point win over S.j. & the Electric.... Healy and teammate Tom Baldwin were each 6-10 from the field for the victors. S.j. was led by footballers Scott Zettek, Mike Shiner, and Steve Cichy, the latter 
See HOOPS, page 5 
. Pam 
continuedfrom page 8 
Nancy's sister, Sandy, will do her 
best to help the Tigers continue 
their luck against the Irish from her 
number-one single spot. Afreshman, 
Sandy combined with her big sister 
to help DePauw to the Indiana AlAW 
Division III championship fall, and as 
a number-one doubles tandem, the 
Gyorgyis were undefeated last fall. 
Today's match truly will be a 
battle ofchampions, since the Tigers 
claimed last fall's Division III state 
title, while the Irish captured seven 
ofnine flights to duplicat~the feat at 
the Division II level. 
"We'd really love to beat them," 
says Fischette. "But if we don't, we 
don't. It won't be the end of the 
world or anything, as long as we play 
as well as ~·e can." 
That hasn't been much of a 
problem ·for Fischette, who enters 
today's contest with 1980-81 
records of21-4 at singles ~nd 27-'5 at 
doubles. Beyond her obvious talent, 
Fischette's ability to keep her com­
posure on the court has been a large 
factor in her success. 
"Pam just goes out there and plays 
her game, and she doesn't let any_­
thing bother her," says P_etro. "You 
can't tell ifshe's winning or losing by 
looking at her. I wish all of my 
players had her composure on the 
court." 
Of course, when you're in the 
middle of a 48-9 (combined singles 
and doubles) season, it's not often 
that there's a whole lot to get upset 
about, unless, of course, your op­
ponents pops her gum or looks at 
you cross-eyed. 
"If I'm in a tough match, I feel the 
tension and anxiety inside," Fis­
chette says. "But if I would start 
throwing my racquet or yelling at 
myself, it would only makethings 
worse. I'm not really calm on the 
inside, hut being calm ()fl the outside 
helps. 
"When things aren't gomg well, I 
just pretend like it's a whole new 
match," she explains. "I tell myself 
to just get the next point, take one 
step at a time, and forget.about what 
just happened." 
Fischette started playing tennis 
when she was in sixth grade, but her 
baskeball career began even earlier. 
"I played basketball before tennis because we didn't have any tennis facilities in our grade school, and the tennis boom hadn't hit yet." 
Even though Fischette averaged 
l 7 points per game as a ~eni~r while 
winning all-conference and all­
region honors, she wa-.n't really 
tempted to give basketball a shot at 
Notre Dame. 
"It's pretty tough to play two sports, and you can take tennis with you for the rest ofyour life -in bas­ketball, you can just take an injury with you for the rest of your life," she laughs. 
Just a'i she was initially impressed by Nancy Gyorgyi's reputation, Fis­chette was lured to Notre Dame by its famous mystique after almost op­ting for Penn State or Rollins. 
"If I would have gone to either of those schools, it would have been to devote nearly all of my time to ten­nis," she says. "But I had wanted to go to Notre Dame since before I started playing tennis, so I decided to give it a try_" 
At the rate she's going. it won't t>e long before Pam fischdt~ is huild­ing a mystique of her own. 
. /
) ,' ; 

~~£>,-ts~l~J~~~i~~~S~======~======================w=e=d=ne=sd=a=y=,A=p=ri=II=5=,=19=8=,I~=p=a=g~e7 
b)' The Ohsert't'r ,tnd The Arrouuted Prn r 

The annual Blue-Gold gatne, marking the om­ciat end ofspring football practice, is scheduled for Saturday, May 2 at 1 p.m. in Notre Dame Stadium. Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students will be admitted at no charge upon presentation of their student ID cards at Gate 15 only. General admi~sion tickets for the public are available in advance at the ACC's Gate 10 box office from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m., Monday through Friday. Prices for these tickets are $2.50 for adults and $1 for people 1 7 -and-under. Tickets will also be available at the stadium on game day priced at $3.50 and SI.50 respectively. There will be no reserved seating. The game is sponsored annually by the Notre Dame Alumni Club of St. joseph Valley and supports the club's scholarship fund which currently sustains 16 area students at the University. -The Obseroer 
Referees for Bookstore Basketball are needed. Any 
certified basketball official interested in one of these paid positions 
should contact Lee Manfred at 7820 or 61 00. -The Observer 
A Golf Tournament has been added to the list:.of An Tostal activitit=s this spring. The nine-hole tourney will be played on Tuesday, April 21 on the Burke Memorial Golf Course. There will be separate divisions for men and women and prizes will be given in each. Prizes also will be awarded in a "Closest-to-the-Pin" competition on one of the par-th_ree holes. To register, call Tim at 1387 or 1392. Green fees will be collected when you tee off on April 21. -The Observer 
The Notre Dame baseball team, unbeaten in its last six games, had its doubleheader with St. joseph's rained out yes­terday afternoon in Rensselaer. The games will be made up sometime next week. The next obstacle for coach Larry Gallo's 11-10-l Irish squad is a twinbill with Butler to!llorrow afternoon at I p.m. on jake ' Kline Field. Scheduled starting pitchers for the Irish are Mike Deasey 
(2-2)and Bob Bartlett (3-2). -The Observer 
Track coach Joe Piane has announced two high school track standouts have stated their intention to enroll a( Notre Dame in the fall. The pair are Mitch Van Eyken, a long-distance sprin­ter from North Babylon, N.Y., and Bill Theisen, a native of West Des Moines Iowa and a two-time Class 2A state cross country champ. Both are exp~cted to contribute immediately to Irish track fortunes. -The 
Observer 

Gone woth the Wind over Skywalker and the Circle Stepen3 Jerkers by 11 4:45 -M.D. Chapman & the John Lennon Fan Fluid Force over We Jammin' on the Name of the Club v. Nell's R.C.M P.S. ' Lord. 23·21 in OT 5:30-US v. R. Pryor & the Have a Coke Free base Wrecked ·em As a Whole over let's Win One for.. Plafers 
by6 6 30-4 Jerks & a Squirt v. Jane's Traon GangTHIRD ROUND 
Lyona12 Stepen4Yesterdey'a Reautta 
The Open Facers over Captain Muff & the Seamen 4:45-Jack Schmodt & the Qne·Eyed Hoagies v
Stepen 1 

t,y4 Larry & Gary Wolf... ?
Hill's Angels over Celibates by 7 Jim Pink& the Blues over Muff Diver& the Beavers 5:30-Puberty & the Newcomers v. East-CoastersFlight over BYE by 6 
by4 6:30-Clitibinguists v. New MafoaCapt. Vaseline & the Slippery Strokes over Min•· 
Reclassofi.ed Nads over Fr. Riehle's Cheap Co gars Stepen8Maggie & the Goant Kollers by 6 
by6 6:30-Love Music is Better.... v. Good Ole BoysAssassins over John Murphy's Slime Train by 5 
4 Jerks & a Dnbbler over last Year's Champs by 8 Bookatore9
Stepen2 

4 45 -S. Judy & the Shock A~sorbers v. VosualDorothy Straiten & the In-Your-Face Kods overS. 
THIRD ROUND 

OrgasmJudy. Dan Sills & Wichita State by 13 
Today'a Gaines 

5:30-WEBB's End v. In Memory of Bog DogThe Interferons over 1st Round Losers by 15 
Stepen 1 

6:30-W. Pace v. WHIPT
Cotton Pony Tony & the K ... Kickers over Chuck 
4:00-Tequila White Lightning v. Back to Reality Book.tore 1 0 Connor Real Estate Roflemen by 4 4:45-Roemer's Regona Raceway v. Take Thos 4:45-Lex Talionis v. Totally lrresposobleWilloam Futtbuckly & the Greek Intellectuals over 
Baii&Shove It 5:30-The Squodleys v The DooboesOrange Ski-masked Duck Molesters by 10 5:30 -Roemer s Narc Squad v. Dr. J & the 6:30 -J.J. 's Team Wants to Play Gerry Faust's
Stepan3 

Penetration Professoonals Team in the 1st Round v. Five FootersBig Organ & Hos Bouncing Balls over Pontoas 
6:30-The Buzzards v. There Once Was a Team.. Lyona11Polate & the Nailbeaters by 5 
Stepen2 5:30-Wildcats v. Nebo"s IIChipigula & the Debauchers over The Sophos­4:00-Keon·s Boundry Spanners v. Fat Chances 6:30-The Master Gees v. LUDUSticados by 8 
4:45-Golden Griffins v. Lovely Bottoms Lyona12The T. P. 's over Slaughterhouse 5 by 11 5:30-Athletes Out of Action v. Plato & the Fan· 6:30-Col. longus & the Privates v. Doug W11lsh &The Bricklayers v. Spoofhounds by 6 
tastic Forums the High Rates
Stepan 4 

6:30-Jackson5v. TheVirtuals 
END OF THIRD ROUND

I. M. Stiff Erection Firm over Team A by 9 Chainsaw & His 4 Beavers over Stooges by 10 Put it in the Hole over Takee-Outee & the Weasel Bleeders by 9 Humor at the Expense of Others over Logan Leapers. 23-21 in OT 
Stepan5 

• • • Spring
Quick Shot & the Embarrassing Stains over 69ers by2 Aggravated Assault II over Dana's Demons, 27-25 inOT 
Stepen6 stated the changes were made for
continuedfrom page 8
FUBAR over 801 St. LOUIS St. Burnouts by 5 
two basic reasons: the move would
Toxic Shock Syndrome over J. Arthur & the Travelling Hose Bags by 6 depth charts, while Boerner, who either help a part of the team that Stepan 7 
hails from Madison, Wis., is No. 3. had been depl~ted by injuries, or it 
Masters of Disaster over The Good. the Bad. and 
the Ugly. and... by 12 Also changing defensive position would put a particular player imo a 
McNamara's Band overS. Judy's Electric Co. by 3 are junior Steve Cichy, who has two position where he would have more Stepan 8 
seasons ofeligibility left after sitting ofan opportunity to play.
Morrison Schwartzer & the Toxic Wastes v. Or. Dunkenstein & the 4 Skons by 10 out most 1980 with a chipped ver­Both coaches also expressed CF over Sister Polanski ·s Pnmary Day School by 5 
tebra in his upper back, and fresh­general satisfaction with the 
Bookstore9 Oral Six over Cocoon·s Surf Squad by 15 man Rick Naylor, yet another progress each of the players was A Touch of Class over4 Odds and an End by 12 
Moeller product. making.
Head Over Heels over S. Judy & the Electric 
Shocksby5 Cichy has moved from his strong According to Notre Dame ad­
T.B. Express over Vanilla Thunders by 12 safety position to strong-side ministrative assistant Joe Yonto, Bookstore 10 
ftnebacker, while Naylor has :noved none ofthe switches should be con­
Rheme Machine over Fameless Outcasts by 2 Gimme Hell v. Sir. Voc's Eplorers II by 9 from an outside to an inside sidered permanent. Rather, they are Atomoc Drops v. Uncle Johns Band by 3 
linebacking position. a normal part of spring football, a
Return of the Nutmeggers over Proud Fathers and the 4 Uncles by 11 Notre Dame's offensive and sport in which certain elements are Lyona11 
defensive coordinators, Tom. Lich­inherent. 
Rockets on our Pockets over Cosmo Carbones by 
11 tenberg and Jim johnson, each Like change. 
~--··· 
--------------------------------------------------------------------·------------------------------------­
All cl ..lSSrheo ads must t•-:-? rece1veo nv 4 45 p m two -1a-.,s pnor to the 
IS'idP •n wh•ch the Jd •s run The Observer olf1ce JV!IJ accept class1f1eds 
M<mdJ\ thrn11gh Frod.n· 10 00 am ro 5:00pm Ail class,foeds "TlUSI be
Classifieds 
prt'-pcud t1 f~her !,., ,•• ,.son or :hrol.Jgh H,e !'ndrf 

LOST GOLD MAN'S WEDDING BAND NEED 2 GRADUATION TIX. $$WILL 3RD FLOOR PW SEEKS N.D. MALES THOUGH PERSONALS ARE TACKY...I 
Need ride to MILWAUKEE thursday
AT THE ALBERT PICK ON FRIDAY. PAY$$. CALL JOHN AT 1846 OR 1787. WHO BELIEVE IN THE POSSIBILITY­COULDN'T FIND A STAMP. ALL MY 
before Easter for break. Can share ex·
APRIL 10 EXTREME SENTIMENTAL OF HAVING A 2ND DATE WITHOUT PENCILS ARE BROKEN AND MY PEN 
~TICES j 
penses. Call Deordre at 8013. Call late if 
IS OUT OF INK, SO-THANKS FOR you can't reach me any other time.
VALUE. REWARD!!! 277-0458. I'm going to Rockford. Illinois on Eas· MAKING MARRIAGE PLANS. CALL 
THE MAIL; I HAD A GOOD TIME TOO. EQUUS FOUND: A gorl's coat at McCandless· just for the day. Call4·1·5792. 
ter Sunday. Need a ride? Woll be gone 2702. 2773. 2801. OR 2854 
BRIDGETS SPECIAL DURING SPRING 
8:00p.m. Alumni formal 4-4. Call 41·4151 to Jeff Jeffers os ugly. But even of he's not ARRESTED: 
COME BY AND CHECK OUT THE DAI·
Weshington Hall claom. RIDE NEEDED TO PITTSBURG AREA THE ugliest guy on campus. he still os Last night. Tom Shoels stuck hos head 
LYSPECIALS
OR ANY PLACE CLOSE 2 PEOPLE.. THE most deserving of thos award out the wondow and got arrested for 
HAPPY HOUR 3-7EVERYDAY
A HOW TO BUY OR SELL THE BUSI· CALL277-8280 Simply because he deserves it MOONING. NESS OPPORTUNITY WORKSHOP Vote TOM SHIELS for UMOC 
EQUUS
May 2nd. Notre Dame Center for NEED RIDE TO BOSTON AREA FOR 0.-Who is the only UMOC candodate to
8:00pm 
N·~~~~ Z~~zek was an AGENT ORANGE 
C.ontinuing Educ. For reservation call [ FOR RENT BREAK IF GOING HOME. PLEASE successfully combine the looks and
Washington Hall
233-7200 CALL SHAWN AT 41-5124. charm of a lump of cold Cream ol poster child Wheat with the sunny disposition of Vote NANCY ZACZEK for UMOC 
HOW BOUT THAT LUMBERJACK
EXPERIENCED TYPIST WILL DO Furntshed 3-4 bedroom house for sum· RIDERS to ELMHURST·W. Alexander Haig?
LOOK? FRANK CETTA FOR UMOC• 
TYPING CALL 287·5162. mer. $200-mth. '233·3552. SUUBURBS. Leave 12:30. 4-16. Call A-None other than BILL Jeez. I got so PUMPKIN. Htch 8918. ······ much work to do" CAVANAUGH·· an Thank you for Saturday noght.. and 
HEY N.D.! P.W. HAS FOODSALES.
INSTANT CASH PAID FOR CLASS SUMMER SUBLET ugly man in every sense of the term Su'nday mornong. Both the violence 
OPEN 9-12 SUN-THURS, 9-11 FRI­
RINGS $20·$85 OR MORE WE MAKE 2 Bedroom Townhouse. completely Male housemate wanted for 81-82 and the quoet moments were great. 1·m 
SAT. EVERYONE WELCOME. 
furnished oncluding washer&dryer. NEWSCLIP looking forward to doong ot agaon soon. .............. pool. rent negotiable. Call277·8158 Actress Carol Burnett won an unprece· Ohman! I can·t waot! 
HOUSE CALLS. 255·2402 school year. Call x1075 for information. 
BRIDGETS DAILY SPECIALS 
TYPING, MODEST RATES. 233·949t. dented 100 million dollar judgement LOVE & KISSES, 
All YOU SMC WINE DRINKERS BE 
..... 2 SUMMER roommates CASTLE Need rode to CALIFORNIA (S.F. area) agaonst the National Enquirer. when PETE 
THERE
TYPING--Only $.65 a page. Call Dan. POINT Apts; 3-bdrm. frnshd: all after fonals. Have little baggage. Will the paper accused her of being related·
75C WINE 3-7 EVERYDAY 
272·5549. amenoties. incl aor cond. $120-MO share dnving and costs. CALL CECI41-to Nancy Zaczek OOOH BABY.. You allurong.gyratong
All YOU NO BEER DRINKERS 
RENT (&UTIL. split 3 ways); temporary 4765 Vote NANCY ZACZEK for UMOC LEWIS LAKESIDE LADY!!! We throved
25C OFF ALL BEER EVERYDAY 3·7
BE A LITTLE CRAZY · SEND A BUNCH card allows you free use of complex on your undulatong solo dance rout one OF DAISIES· ONLY $1 00 ·AN TOSTAL (mel OUTDOOR POOL. RACQUET· NEED RIDERS TO STATEN ISLAND. EQUUS Fro. night! Our osland voew was superb
HOW MANY PEOPLE DO YOU KNOW
DAISY SALE. BALL. WEIGHT ROOM. TENNIS. N.Y. CITY AREA. FOR EASTER BREAK. Tuesday and Wednesdey jUSt like your yellow T-Short' Encore 
THAT MAKE THE CHILDREN CRY? 
SAUNA. et. al.) for summer. C11ll Mike. CALL TONY AT 1376. Aprll14 and 15 performance next Fro note about
JUST ONE

EQUUS 277-7351 8:00pm 1 :00??? longingly. K.S.&M K. 
PRO BURKE FOR UMOC
An ND-SMC Second Scene produc­Riders needed to Evansville. via ln­Washington Hall
THE UGLIEST MAN ON CAMPUS!'!!
tion SUMMER APARTMEN_T Fully doanapolis. Will be leavong Thursday Is of natural that Kevin o·Broen always
VOTE PRO 
8:00pm furnished-equipped one-bedroom apt. night or Froday mornong. Call Chris EQUUS looks so pale? Only hos mortician Washington Hall avaolable for summer(5·15 to 8·15). Anne at t361. 8:00pm knows for sure. Vote Kevon J. Anemoa 
HELP!!!! I NEED A RIDE TO THE
Located in popular apt. compleli and Weshington Hall is my life" o·sroen for UMOC. He brings
..............................................................u 
KANSAS CITY AREA FOR EASTER
COME JOIN IN THE 1981 FESTIVAL OF includes color tele.. A·C, dishes &uten­NEED RIDE TO DETROIT OVER new meaning to the word woshy·washy . 
BREAK!!!' WILL SHARE EXPENSES
SPRINGLY DELIGHTS· AN TOSTAL · .sils, etc. Closest apt. to club house and BREAK CALl MITCH AT 6656. EQUUS
AND INTERESTING CONVERSAT.ION! 
APR!L23. 24. 25. pool. Rent: $205-mo&ullls. Deposit re­8:00pm
PLEASE CALL PEG··-1288
quired. 277-7392 RIDERS WANTED TO WASH. D.C. Washington Hall I STILL NEED RIDERS TO PROFESSIONAL TYPING. Term AREA Leavong tonlle after dinner CLEVELAND! CALL LIZ 2179. 
JANE·O ISA F. I. B.! 

papers. theses. etc. Tape transcription. AVAILABLE SUMMER AND NEXT Returning Monday for those going one Good Luck Bob and Rick and the rest last years same low proces. All work SCHOOL YEAR 5 BEDROOM HOUSE, way. CALL KEVIN 3282 of US on Bookstore 1981 !! CONGRAJS KIM!
EQUUS 
1 knew you could do ot' Today
guaranteed. aardvark automatoc solu· 1 AND 3 BEDROOM APARTMENTS The Oklahoma Iron Man
An ND-SMC Second Scene produc-· 
lions. 289-6753. 234·2626 Need ride to Champaogn. Ill. Thursday LEMANS.tomorrow 
tlon 
or Fnday. Will share expenses. Call Bill, KPI ALL-CLUELESS TEAM Love. 
8:00pm
EQUUS TWO GIRLS LOOKING FOR AN APT IN 277·3456 (1) Jane Z Sis 
Washington Hall
BOSTON? JaneZ (tte) F=·L;;·v;i:r·H·u·s;·L;~;~·i~-~~i~·;~·~;;~·~·;·3a We can sublet our apt thos s1,1mmer. (3) Karenne G TO All THOSE OF HOLY CROSS. 
JUNIORS: Applications for 1982 Senior
days. Lowest rates in this area Based For more onfo~. wrote or call laura or (4) Doane D. SECTION 5. & FRIENDS WHO HELPED 
Formal Chaorman are now avaolable in 
at Mochoana Regoonal Airport Licensed Molly (two ·so ND grads) at: (5) Julie H. SUNDAY WAS THE BEST THING 
307 Dollon and 1002 Flanner. All in·
34 Medfield St. Apt. No.4, ~-KE__TS_ ___, (6) Gail Marie K. ANYONE HAS EVER DONE FOR US'polots may fly our planes also Regional 
terested Seniors· to-be are en·
Boston. MA. 02115 (617)437·9490 (7) DebiT. THANKS FOR EVERYTHING llo JUSTFlying Club. 277·5006 or 277·5181. 
couraged to apply Dead lone: Thursday 
(8) Mary Ann U (Jagger Lips) FOR BEING THE BEST OF FRIENDSII 
I 
1 need 3 (that's three) graduation tick· April 23. Any questoons. call Dave 
(9)Emoly B. THANKS.
WILL DO TYPING. OALL287-5t62 ets. (Yes. folks. ot's starting already ) If (1783) or Moke (1416) 
(10)Cathy S. JIM& CHRIS you can help me. call Scoop at 1772.
WANTED 
Thanks for ALL the FUN pre-. during,NEEDED. MANY TICKETS FOR Keep up that CPR··you'll need ot on your and post·formal(oncludong Saturday Need roders goong 80 East lo PA border GRADATION. CALL TIM AT 1650 OR aeroboc dance classt And don I bend noght). Your fine· lone dostonctoon" was leavong Fro. mornong. Call Davod al233·

ILOST/FOUND J Maq. 
1868 your elbow on your backhand!!'!
Need roders goong 80 East to PA border; great-·1 must admit probably your Best. 3658 
love.
leavong Fro. morning. Call Davod at233· Hope these good tomes make thongs 
a concerned. budding JOurnalist 
before the 23rd a httle easoer Remem­Needed: rode to Cleveland or
3658 ber: JUST AIM FOR INFINITY·-Youngstown. OH. Call Kathy. 41·4291 LOST: PAIR OF PRESCRIPTION 
GLASSES · TORTOISE FRAMES IN 
EQUUS
[ PERSONALS
Need rode to Cleveland or Youngstown, Woth much love. D11nny.
YHLOW CASE. PLEASE CALL IF 
Directed by Brian Woulfe
OH. Call Kathy. 41-4291 Me Juloe & Dorothy.
FOUND· FRNIICIE 277·8760. 
8:00pm 
Cheer up, roomoes1 Afle1' 1111. you ­EQUUS Washington Hall
...... ............ .. . . ······ 

Need ride to Chicago Thursday. Call Seven days and countong! Only 168 have me as a roornmm<1te You re tooLOST: Tan-maroon reversoble jacket. 
An ND-SMC Second Scene produc­
John Higgins st 8553 or 1715 and more hours untol the bog day. Both Paul cute to frown'
possobly at North Dining Hall last week 
tion I need three graduation tickets. Call 
(that's Pawl) Somelofske and Mary Love.
Mom will dosown me. Call John at 3256 leave a message. 
·Directed by Brian Woulfe Joe Conroy at 8570. Cathy
Beth Brennan woll be accepting cards 

8:00pm
L05T: Green, lined wondbreaker. back· Needed: Rtde to Washongton D.C for and gofts as they celebrate theor 
Washington Hall ANYONE WHO TOOK PICTURES OF 
borthdays. Watch thrs space for more An To.tal Tuck-In Service
stage at the Jazz Festival thos weekend. Easter Can leave Thurs. AM. or Wed. 
THE ABIOGENESIS DANCE CON­
p M Call Mary Julie. 41-4376 detaols. (Note to larry Gervaos: Paulos Sogn up today'
Would greatly apapprecoate its return. 
CERT PLEASE CALL MIKE AT 3166
Desperate for rode! SHEILA···-HAVE A GREAT EASTER not responsoble for these personals') In Oonong Halls 5.30·6 30 
Am cold. Call T J. 3207. 
. .... 
...... 
I.­


Wednesday, April IS, 1981 -page 8
Sports 
Builds mystique 
Fischette awaits rematch 
By CRAIG CHVAL 
Sports Writer 
For Pam Fischette, what she didn't know did hurt her. Fortunately for Fischt·ttt· and her teammates on the ~otre Dame women's tennis team, though. the freshman sensation is a quick learner. 

The Irish had already achieved their goal for tht· 1980 fall campaign by capturing the Indiana AlA\X' Divi­sion II d1ampionship three days ear­lier. a conquest in which the rookie from Liverpool, :'II.Y., played no small role:. conrributing state titles at third singles and second doubles.
! 
Now. <.:oach Sharon Petro's squad

1 
was hound for Greencastlc, Ind., to finish out the fall slate against DePauw. The Tigers had always' been a thorn in Notre Dame's side. defeating tht· Irish in each of the three previous meetings between the schools. 
.\taking matters worse, Petro was making the trip without two of her top singles players, number-two linda Hover. and number-five Marv
' . 
Lt·geay. In the ensuing series of flip-flops and juggles. Fischette found herself in the number-two slot, · matched up against Nancy Gyorgyi. 

ASouth Bend native, Gyorgyi had­never lost to a Notre Damc player, and Fischette's teammates duly in­formed her of that piece of trivia in the van on the way to Greencastle. Never mind her 16-0 singles record, forget her 22-1 doubles marJ{ -by the time Pam Fischette stepped onto the court to face Gyorgyi, she was a wreck. 
"Everybody was kind of joking about it on the way down," she remembers. "I was pretty much clueless. My attitude was, 'Oh I've got to play this girl, and I don't even know her or how she plays.' " 
The first set was predictably rocky for Fischette. She dropped it hy a 6-2 score, and it took a while for the awe to wear off. 
Under Faust 
By MARK HANNUKSELA 
Sports Writer 
With the coming of any new ad­ministration, so too comes change. 
Along with taxes and death, change is one of the inevitabilities of life. 
So it should come as no surprise to football fans that a number of changes have accompanied Gerry Faust and his fiery personality to this South Bend campus. 


Pahaps the most noticeable of these changes have occured on the playing tleld, where no less than a dozen players have switched posi­tions since the end oflast season. 
\tost of the changes have come in the offense, which Faust has said will attempt to put as much pressure as pos"Sibk uh opposing defenses next season by running from a number of different formations. 
One way he hopes to apply pressure is through the installation of a wingback position. Curn:ntly, the leading candidate to fill that position in the fall is junior Tim Tripp. 
A starter in two games for Dan Devine's Irish last season. Tripp should benefit greatly from the switch, because it will grant him an opportunity to log more playing time. something he was not quite able to do while playing at split t·nd behind Tony Hunter. 

"I'd heard so much about her, that every time she made a good shot, I was saying to myself, 'She really is good.' " she recalls. "But we had a couple of pretty long rallies, and I told myself that if I could rally with her, I could at least play ·a com­petitive match." 
Gyorgyi probably would choose a word other than compt•titive ­awesome might not be a bad choice. Fischette rebounded to capture the match 2-6, 6-2, 6-1, giving Notre Dame one ofjust two points in a 7-2 loss. 
"That was probably the best match I played during the fall," al­lows Fischette, who had plenty of sparkling efforts to choose from. "It was mostly a matter of gaining my concentration, and keeping it 
chrou the last two 

Pam Fischette has been a key performer for the Notre Dame women's tennis team this spring and thefreshman sensation will be performing this afternoon at 3:30p.m. as the Irish play host to DePauw at the Courtney Tennis Center. (photo by Tim McKeogh) 
For. her part, Petro couldn't say enough about her freshman star af­ter the match. 
"That was really something," she enthused. "Being a freshman, I think Pam was a little nervous at the begin­ning of the match, but once she got her confidence, she was unstop­pable. Nancy was just stunned." 
The Tigers pay a return visit to Notre Dame this afternoon, as the Irish will go for their fi_rst victory in five tries against DePauw at 3:30 
p.m. at the Courtney Tennis Center. Unfortunately for Gyorgri, she won't have a chance for revenge, since she's spending the semester studying abroad, and Fischette will be back in her familiar number-three spot. 
See PAM, page 6 
Spring sees position changes 
Three other changes have been made in the Notre Dame receiving corps, a unit which many feel was not utilized fully by Devine. 
One of the changes has seen for­mer quarterback Greg Knafelc, who has been granted another year of eligibility after sitting out last season with a shoulder injury, move to split end, where he is listed behind juniors Mike Boushka and Dave Con­deni, and sophomore Mike Favorite. 
Hunter is not listed on tl:te current Irish depth charts because of an in­jury to his an~le. 
Also added to the receiving corps are juniors Pete Buchanan and Ron 
Spring Football'81 
,\1ishler. Hoth are now listed as tight ends. 
Buchanan, a 6-3, .220-pound native of Plymouth, Ind., was one of Devine's messenger fullbacks last · season, while .\1ishler, who hails from Metamora. Ill., served as a back­up to all-America middle linebacker Bob Crable last season. 
Buchanan should benefit most from the move, due to the signing of Parade all-America fullback Mark Brooks, the leading rusher for Faust's final Cincinnati Moeller club. 
Brooks is expected to battle soph­omoreJohn Sweeney for the starting 
fullback job. 

Other offensive changes have been among linemen who simply find themselves at new positions in the trenches. 
Two starters from last year, Tom Thayer and Mike Shiner, have swapped positions. Thayer has taken Shiner's left tackle spot, while Shiner is now filling Thayer's right guard position. Both men will be juniors next season. 
Sophomore Mark Fischer, a 6-4, 220-pound tight end from Massilon, Ohio, has moved to the center posi­tion, and this spring is filling in for an injured Larry Kissner on the first team offense. 
Moving from center to right tackle is freshman Steve Keane ofLit­tleton, Co., an honorable mention choice on the Adidas/Scbolastic Coach prep all-America unit, while Mike Kelley, a freshman from Westfield, Mass., who did not play last season because of a back injury, will move from guard to center. 
On the other side ofthe ball, three 
changes have been made, two on the 
line. 

Freshmen Jon Autry and Chris 
Boerner, linebackers this past 
season, have moved to left defensive 
end. 

Presently, Autry, a Fort Wayne, 
Ind. native, is No. 1 on the Irish 
See SPRING, page 7 

RITES OF FALL-With spring workouts in full swing and the annual Blue-Gold scrimmage only a couple of weeks away, many people arc already looking toward next fall's football season. 
Notre Dame's road to the national championship may be tougher than it has been the past couple ofyears, Although the Irish will play 6 of their 11 regular season games at home (including five in a row), they face stiff competition both here and away. 
The Irish open with a home contest against Lousiana State on Satur­
day, September 12, a start one week later than the September 6 start 
ABC Sports arranged this past season. They then play a pair ofstudent 
road trip specials, facing Michigan in Ann Arbor and Purdue in West 
Lafayette the following two weeks. 
Notre Dame closes out its 1981 Big Ten hat trick against Michigan 
State on October 3 in the first offive straight clashes on friendly turf 
Faust's footballers play host to Florida State on October 1 0, then take a 
weekend off to prepare for their annual showdown with Southern Cal 
on October 24. Mid-semester break runs from October 17 to 25, so 
students will have to come back early rather than stay late during the 
fall study hiatus. 

The annual Navy battle will be waged October 31 while Georgia 
Tech closes out the home slate one week later. The Irish round out the 
regular season with a trio ofaway games against Air Force (November 
14 ), Perin State (November 21 ) and Miami ofFlorida(November 28) . 
According to NCAA edicts, a school may only appear on ABC-TV's College football telecasts twice per season (once on a national and once on a regional broadcast), with one extra "exception;' game pos­sible per two-year period. Since Purdue, Alabama and USC were all 
ABC games last season, Notre Dame is only .eligible to appear twice 
next season. It is virtually a given that the USC game will be one tube 
offering, while the second game could he Penn State, Michigan, 
Florida State or even Purdue, .the lrish/Nittany Lion matchup being 
the most likely. 

However, the Ohio State/Michigan and Oklahoma/Nebraska games 
are slated for the same November 21~t date the Irish play Penn State, 
so it is likely that one or even two ofthose thr.ee power-packed games 
may be moved to some other open date in the season (just as the 
Notre Dame/USC game was this year). 
In fact, ABC has expressed an interest in moving the Penn State 
game, although no one in the Athletic Department seems excited 
about the idea. The only dates to which the game could be moved are 
September 5 or December 5, since the mid-season open dates ofboth 
tc:-ams do not coincide. Incidentally, the Lions may not-mind moving 
the Notre Dame game since their current schedule has them playing 
Alabama the week before the Irish. 
POMP AND CIRCUMSTANCE -Halftime of the upcoming Blue­Gold game will be more than a three-ring cir<.:us. Bands and pom-pom girls from local grade schools and high schools have been invited to perform at halftime of the annual scrimmage, and several awards will also be presented. Chuck Aragon, the senior trackster from Los Lunas, N.M., will be presented an award commemorating his sub-four-minute mile during the indoor track season. Retired Athletic Director Moose Krause will be presented a brand new Cadillac given to him by friends from the Chicago area, and The Obseroer will grant its Sportsman and Sportswoman of the Year awards. 
PASSING THE BALL-Mike Mitchell, a three-year veteran ofDigger 
Phelps' traveling basketball show, has been named the captain of the 
1981-82 edition. 

A 6-2 guard from San Bruno, Calif., Mitchell and walk-on Marc Kelly will be the only seniors on the predominately-underclass squad next year. Mitchell played in all but one game as a freshman before knee problems hampered his performance during his sophomore and junior campaigns. He averaged 3.0 points-per-game and finished third on the team as a rookie with 73 assists. 
October knee surgery the past two seasons kept his scoring average to 2.5 points in 24 games during the 1979-80 season and 1.3 points in 13 games during the recently-concluded session. 
Says basketball czar Phelps: "Despite his injuries, Mike has proven 
to us that he deserves this honor. We talked to him back when he was 
in high school about having tpe chance to be captain when he was a 
senior -and his leadership characteristics have earned him the op­
portunity." 

THE ONE THAT GOT AWAY-Although Phelps gained a captain yesterday, he also lost a recruit. Benny Anders, a 6-5 forward from Louisiana who visited the Notre Dame campus this past weekend, an­nounced his intention to enroll at Houston next year. 
ICE ACCOLADES-Jeff Logan and Dave Poulin, who will both be 
seniors next season, have been named co-captains oflhe 1981-82 Irish 
hockey team. Seniors-to-be Bill Rothstein and John Schmidt were 
selected as alternate captains in the election held among members of 
the team. 

Logan, who led the Irish in scoring with 24 goals and 12 assists, was 
also named the Most Valuable Player by his teammates and received 
the ~otre Dame National Monogram Club's MVP award. 
Scott Cameron won the scholar-athlete award from the Notre Dame 
Club of St. Joseph Valley and Kevin Humphreys was the recipient of 
the Blue Line Club's Ed McGauley Award as the team's outstanding 
senior. 

Laurels also went to defenseman Tony Bonadio (rookie ofthe year), 
senior Jef' Brownschidle (best defenseman), junior Bill Rothstein 
(best defe1 sive forward) aad sophomore center Mark Doman (most 
improved f· 'ayer). The team's most c'oveted award went to Don Lucia. 
who won tt. ~John Whitmer award, bestowed annually on the player 
who best ex\:mplifies the disposition ofthe team's beloved trainer. 
c t' J 
'~ [ ;.'I \ I; 




