.---­
--------------~--~­
. Baseball -page 10 


PRAGUE, Czechoslovakia (AP)­
Backed by a solemn Leonid I. 
Brezhnev, Czechoslovakia on yes­
terday escalated the Soviet-bloc at­
tack on Poland's leadership for 
failure to restore order in the crisis­
racked country. 
Gustav Husak, Czechoslovak 
Communist Party head, said in a 
three-hour speech to a Communist 
Party Congress that Polish leaders 
had admitted two months ago the country faced anarchy but still had not restored order. 
"The fact that the political crisis is stU continuing and intensifying fills us all the more with apprehension," declared Husak. 
Brezhnev, the Soviet president and pary leader, is the only foreign head ofstate at the congress and his surprise attendance has the Reagan administration paying close atten­tion to the session. 
In 1968 Brezhncv ordered the Soviet-led Warsaw Pact invasion of Czechoslovakia to halt efforts by Czechoslovakian communists to promote "socialism with a human face." The Kremlin also enunciated the "Brczhncv Doctrine" in 1968, which claimed that the Soviets had 
VOL XV, NO. 122 an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and saint mary's TUESDAY, APRIL 7, 1981 
Tensions mount 
Soviet bloc censures Poland 
the right to intervene in any bloc country to safeguard the communist system. 
Warsaw Pact military exercises continued in and around Poland in whar the lJ.S. defense secretary said 
was  apparently  an  attempt  to  in·  
timidatc the Poles.  
Husak  equated  demands  by  

Poland's independent union Solidarity with tht• revolt in Hungary in 1956 and a liberalization drive in Czechoslovakia in 1968 -both crushed by the Red Army. He declared that Soviet bloc countries would "defend their interests and the socialist achievemc:nts of their people." 
"We arc not hiding the f.tct that our people an~ following the events in fraternal Poland with disquiet," he said. Husak called for a conference of world communist leaders, saying the West has tried to "pull one or the other country out of the socialist family" and is doing it again in Poland. 
Husak's words appeared to signal still more Soviet bloc pressure on the leadership of Polish party leader Stanislaw Kania, who was represented by staunch Solidarity 
Democrats proposebudget alternative 
WASHINGTON (AP) -House Dcmcrats unveilcu their long­awaltcu alternative to President Rt·agan's economic pat·kage yester­day, calling for a sharply smaller budget deficit in 1982, a smaller tax cut, less spending for defense and more for social programs. 
It calls for overall spending cuts roughly $4 billion deeper than Rt·agan rt·commt·ndcd, but docs not assume enactmt·nt of the three-year, t·ross-tht·-board tax cut of 30 per­cent that Is the centerpiece of the administration's economic recovery program. 
Rep. James Jones, D/Okla., chair· man of tht· Houst· Budget Commit­tee, unveiling tht· package at a news conference, said it would prouuce a balanccu buugc:t in tht· 1983 fiscal yt·ar, a year earlier than the ad­ministration's own target. 
"This is a budget which meets the needs of America," he said, calling on Republicans to "put aside par­tisan urges in order to swiftly pass this budgt·t." 
Jones was accompanied at the news conference by House Democratic Lt·adcr Jim Wright of Texas and Democratic Deputy Whip Hill Akxander ofArkansas. 
"I believe that the Democratic leadership is in support of this basic program," Wright said. 
House Speaker Thomas P. O'Neill, DIMas..~ .. who diu not attend the news conference:, issued a statement afterwards commending Jones. Asked whether the proposals amounted to a Democratic package, O'Neill replied, "You can call it that ifyou want." 
As further eviuence of a 
Democratic consensus, Jones told 
rcprtcrs the S35 billion he: left in the 
bu<.lgt·t for tax relief in fiscal 1982 
had the: approval of Rep. Daniel Ros­
tenkowski, D/lll., chairman of the 
By MICHAEL A. LUTZ 
Associated Press Writer 
LIBERTY, Texas ( AP) -He didn't like the way his wife cooked, the way she grcctt·d him when he came home from work or her sweet tooth. 
She didn't like being treatcu "like a pea'>ant with no sense" and warned him that his throne "will crumble one ofthesc days an <.I you're going to need someone who loves you." 
It looked like a marriage doomed to divorce, but it met a fate far worse. 

OnJan. 19, Price Daniel Jr., former speaker of the Texas House .of Representatives and scion of'one of Texas' most powerful families, was 
shot  to  death.  Vickie  Daniel,  his  
second  wife,  is  charged  with  his  
murder.  

Free on S50,000 bail, with her murder trial not expected to begin until summer, she s:1ys the shooting wa'i an accident, that she remembers firing a warning shot at Price but doesn't remember hitting him. 
Details of their storm)"" marriagt arc revealed in lc:ttcrs the couple wrote to each other in 1979. The lc:t­ters were submittcu as evidence in a lawsuit filed by Daniel's sister, Jean Daniel Murph, in an attempt to gain custody of the Daniels' two sons. 
The jury trial in the custody fight began its fourth week yesterday. 
Price met Vickie while she was working at a Dairy Queen to support her two children by a former mar­riage. They were married Nov. 1, 1976, in New Orleans. 
During one of many separations during the marriage, the Daniels each wrote the other a list ofsugges­tions for self-improvement and an­other list ofitems suggested for their mate's improvement. 
"Always have a pleasant greeting when I come home from work (even if it has to be faked)," Price list<.I as his number one request of his wife. 
"I don't mean that you have to be especially dressed, standing in the uoorway with a smile from ear-to­car, but I uo expect more than to walk in and find you intently glued to the TV lying on the couch. 
"And occasionally, when you sec me drive in, come and open the 
See DANIELS, page 5 
Gramm, a member of the Budget Committee, saiu if the panel does not make significant changes in the package Jones presented, " i will oppose it." -He said, however, ht· could not speak for the: other con­servative Democrats, whose support coulu be critical in light of the cur­rt·nt House division of 242 Democrats and 191 Republicans. Two llousc seats are vacant. 
The hudget Jones rccommcndeu calls for total spcnuing for 1982 of $713.5 bilion and a deficit of $24.6 billion. 
t'ritic Stefan Olsowski at tht· Czec­hoslovakian congrl·ss. 
Husak noted that the Polish party said at a Febru:try kader~hip mt•eting that a.nti-t·ornmunist ele­ments wt·n· czusing anarchy in the country "and the foundations of socialism were thn·att·nt·d." 
Brezhnev's prt•st·ncc <.:onstitutn.l an unspoken endorsement of Husak's remarks and undt·rscored the nt·w attacks on Pol:tnd's govern­ment, <.:oming in tandem with Iong­stanuing East bloc criti<.:ism of Solidarity and Polish uissidt·nts. 
Brczhncv was expected to speak at the Prague meeting tomorrow. 
Thert· was speculation Brezhnt·v will fly from here to East <lermany for its party congress. The Soviet Union, Poland and Czechoslovakia arc Poland's only neighhors and EastGcrmany anu Czechoslovakia have hcen tht• East bloc leaders in ct~>ing Soviet warnings to Poland. 
East Germany has also been the source of announcements on the Soyuz-81 miHtary exercises by War­saw Pact troops. The East German news agency ADN said yesterday that East German and Soviet tank and-anillcry units hclu maneuvers on East German soil. On Sunday, it announced fresh troops arrivcu for the exercises. 
U.S. uefcnse Scnetary Caspar W. Weinberger, touring military instal­lations in Britain before heading to West Germany for a NATO defense ministers meeting, said the Soviets have strengthened their forces in Poland in an apparent effon at in­timidation. 
"There has been a gradual filtering in and additions to the Russian uivi­
, sions that have been in Poland for a long time. The whole activity cannot fail to be really intimidating and coercive. Ami that's what I think is intended," Wt:inbcrger said. lie called it "invasion hy osmosis." 
lk said the Prague discussions coulu have "a settling cffcl't" be-
See BLOC, page 4 
tax-writing House Ways and Means Committee. The comparable: tax-cut figure in Reagan's budget roposal is more than $54 billion. 
Jones also said Democratic back­ing for tax cuts in 1983 anu 1984 would be contingent upon deeper spending cuts in those years. 
But Democratic support for the package was not unanimous. 
Rep. Phil Gramm ofTexas, one of 44 members of a group of con­servative House Dt•mocrats, saiu the changes Jones had made in the Reagan proposals were: "a trans­formation I do not support." 
Rep. Daniels: marital woes lead to murder 
Helen Luke will speak 
atSMC Commencement 
Saint Mary's 1981 Commencement will tt-ature IIden I.ukl' as tht• keynote speaker. 
Anne Reed, director of Public Relations, s;1id that Mrs. Luke is the type ofperson the cla<os will easily relate to ht·cause she is a "woman who's thought deeply in significant ways on what it's like to bt· a woman." 
Mrs. Luke, according to Ms. Reed, is the "heart and soul" of Apple Farm, a retreat centershe founded in 196.~ in Three Rivns, Michigan. 
Sister Elena Malits, chairman of Religious Studies at St. Mary's described Apple Farm a~ a center "for people who art• inspin·u hy Jung's psychology and have a need to explore it's symbols and what 
they arc telling our society." 
Mrs. Luke acquired interest in Jungian psyt·hology after World War 
II while stuuying at the: Jungian Institute in Zurkh. Since then, she 
published several works on the subject. 
"She's not the type of person that is constantly sending out 
manuscripts to publishers," Sr. Mallts stated. "Mostly, she just writes 
for her friends and ifenough ofthcm request it, she'll publish a certain 
paper. She really isn't the least bit intcrcstt·d in pur,uing the normal 
things which spell success." 
Born in Englanu in 1904, she graduated from Oxford In I 927. 
During WWII, she used her home a'> a haven for war refugees. After 
leaving Zurich, she moved to Los Angeles to work as a Jungian coun­
selor and lived there until coming to Three Rivers. 
Sr. Malits describes her as a woman "who is alive with a quiet inten­sity from a spirit inside her. Some of the speaker's published works include THrough Defeat to joy, The Way ofWoman Ancientand Modem. and Parabola. 

Tuesday, April 7, 1981 -page 2
NewsBrieb 
c===~========~================================~
by The Observer and The Associated Pres.r 
An adviser to Solidarity counseled the independ­
ent labor union yesterday to follow a no strike strategy in order to 
Still across the street 
avoid provoking Soviet intervention here. The adviser, lawyer jan Olszewski, said only outside interference could block the move toward reform within the Polish Communist Party. "The only thing that can rescue the hard-liners from the rebellion of the party's rank­and-file is intervention," he said in a statement published in a Solidarty newsletter. Olszewski's statement came after days ofheightened con­cern in the West over Soviet intentions toward Poland, where labor militants have led a movement away from Soviet-style communist or­thodoxy. Warsaw Pact military maneuvers continued in and around Poland. Polish Deputy Premier Miezyslaw Rakowski, in France, was quoted as saying in an interview with the Paris newspaperFigaro that 
"the Soviet Union is the last country which would want to intervene in Poland." In Britain, U.S. Defense Secretary Caspar W. Weinberger said the recent buildup ofSoviet military forces inside Poland amounted to an "invasion by osmosis" that has the same effect as an outright inva­sion in intimidating the Poles. -AP 
President Reagan, described as alert and in good spirits, was running a slight fever yesterday and doctors took the precaution of giving him additional antibiotics although they said there was no evidence of infection in his lung. A chest X-ray showed "modest clearing" of lung infiltrates -probably dried blood or damaged tissUt: -along the track of the bullet that entered his left lung in an assassination attempt a week ago. A medical report issued by the White House said that "existing cultures and review of specimen smears show no evidence ofbacterial infection." Neverthe­less. as a precaution, doctors said they widened the types ofantibiotics given to Reagan to reach more kinds ofbacteria that could cause infec­tion. After a restful night at George Washington University Hospital, the medical bulletin said, "The president continues to be alert and in good spirits." Reagan received a written national security briefing that included an update 1;n the crisis in Poland, met briefly with his three top aides and read newspapers but conducted little other official busi­ness, according to deputy White House press secretary Larry Speakes. 
-AP 
Effects ofthe 11-day-oldnationwide strike by soft coal miners spread further th~ough related industries yesterdat, as scatpered, peaceful picketing was reported in Virgi~ia, Illinois and West Virginia. There was no scheduled resumption of talks between the United Mine Workers and the Bituminous Coal Operators Associa­tion, but a spokesman said the UMW's bargaining counsel had been told to report to Washington Friday to decide its next step. Industry observers said the strike, which began March 27, has hurt hundreds of large and small coal-related industries such as companies that make or repair mining equipment. "The strike has put a stop on deliveries to all coal companies and construction firms" until the strike is over, said Roge Cooper, district manager of Acme Machinery Co. of Beckley, W.Va. He said the strike had had a chilling effect on business through­out the coal regions. -AP 
While TV talk showhost Dick Maurice acknowledged "perpetrating a hoax," self-proclaimed pyschic Tamara Rand apologized for taking "literary license" with a "re-enactment" of a prediction that President Reagan would be shot. But the Los Angeles woman continued to maintain she predicted the shooting before it occurred. She created a stir last week after broadcast ofa segment of Maurice's show, purportedly made in january, in which she predicted Reagan's shooting at the end of March. As recently as Friday, Maurice said the tape, shown March 31, was authentic and was a re-enactment of a prediction made on tape on jan. 6. But in a copyright article in Sunday's Las Vegas Sun, Maurice said, "My interview with Tamara Rand, in which she predicted the assassination attempt on President Ronald Reagan, is a lie." Maurice's article began with the words, "I am sorry...! have committed the cardinal sin of a columnist. I have per­petrated a hoax on the public and feel very much ashamed." -AP 
Halting more than a decade of increased auto regula­tions. the Reagan administration said yesterday it will relax or eliminate :H pollution and safety rules to help the troubled American auto industry. The move will savemanufacturers, who lost 54.3 billion last year, nearly SlA billion in capital investment over the next five years, the administration said. Auto and truck buyers would benefit by about S'J .. ~ billion. an average of $150 per vehicle. "The American automobile industry is in serious trouble,' President Reagan said in a statement released at the White House. Administration officials said the industry incurred "unprecedented losses" last year and 80,000 auto workers are unemployed. The regulationsto be eased or eliminated range from a rule requiring auto bumpers to withstand a 5 
m.p.h. crash to various pollutant emission standards for cars and trucks. The: administration also wants to eliminate fuel efficiency stan­dards after I ')85. -AP 
Becoming cloudy, breezy and mild today with highs in the low to mid 60s. Mild tonight with a 40 percent chance ofthunder­showers. Lows in the mid and upper 40s. Scattered thundershowers tomorrow, but slightly cooler. Highs in the upper 50s to around 60. ­
.4P 
Some students in the ND-SMC communfty believe the latter institution suffers from a remarkably high drop-out rate, with massive amounts of Saint Mary's women migrating across the street to complete their college education. Saint Mary's, however, has had a very low drop-out (attrition) rate since 1975 in comparison with other liberal arts colleges ofequal size, and Notre Dame is often not the institution selected when a Saint Mary's student transfers. 
Sister jeanette Lester, institutional researcher for Saint Mary's, explains that the college has remained below the national attrition rate as compared with other four-year liberal arts colleges such as Mt. Holyoke, Oberlin, Carleton, Kalmazoo, Reed and Wil­liams. In a study by W.john Minter and Howard Bowen, "Independent Higher Education, 5th Annual Report, 
I')80," these colleges averaged an attrition rate of 11 percent since 1975, while Saint Mary's has averaged at 
7.2 percent. Both rates are computed by the number of withdrawals in one year as a percent ofannual average full-time classified enrollment. 
Another measure of an institution's attrition rate, according to Sr. Lester, is to examine the number of entering freshmen who graduate in four or five years from the college. According to the American Council on Education (from a report en­titled "Retention Tactic for the Eighties," December, 
1979), nationally only 40 percent ofstudents graduate from the same institution in four years and about 50 per­cent in five years. Of the Saint Mary's students who have entered the college since 1974,73 percent have graduated in four years and 77 percent have graduated in five years. The report also states that about 30 percent of students drop out after the first year of college and another 20 percent after the second year. Saint Mary's freshman, however, have averaged a nine percent attri­tion rate for the past five years and the sophomore rate has averaged 17.5 percent, both far below the national 
average. 
When Saint Mary's students do transfer, many do not select Notre Dame as their next college. Notre Dame is chosen most often among indiana institutions, but other out-of-state institutions, such as De Paul, Michi­gan State, Wayne State, Saint Louis University and Georgetown are selected more frequently than Notre Dame. Among freshman and sophomore students who withdrew from Saint Mary's in 1979-1980, the major reason for their withdrawal was their desire to attend a co-educational institution. The students also stated that their desire for a larger institution, a wider choice of majors, personal problems and a lack of finances were major considerations in their decision to transfer. 
Since the cancelled 1')72 merger between Notre Dame and Saint Mary's, the perspective of Saint Mary's has been reshaped and strengthened. The cancelled merger, according to Saint Mary's College President 
The_OhserYer 
Design Editor ....................... Monica Gugk De.,.ign Assistants ....................... Tonia Hap Jeff Moore Typesetter .............................. Damian Inglin .Veu•s Editor. ........................... Lynne Daley Copy Editor..................... Dave Rickabaugh Features Layout .................... Greg Swiercz Sports Cop,• Editor............. Skip Desjardin Typist .. ..................................... Katie Bigane Systems Control.... . ......... Bruce Oakley ND Day Editor ...................... Dan Gonzales .\~tiC Da)' Editor. ...... Mary Kay Hogan Ad Design ............................... \1roody & Co. Photographer.......................... Greg Maurer Guest Appearances Vanian Shock Troops 
john ""Biondie"" McGrath Ryan ··Luco·· Ver Berkmoes Tim ""Angel Eyes"" Neely ""Just another pretty face"" MAC 
,--Positions Available For.........._ 
1982 DOME 
Business Manager, Layout, Photography, Copy 
Anyone interested should apply through Student Activities Deadline -April 10 

john Duggan in an Observer question and answer column published last semester, "forced Saint Mary's to do a campus-wide rethinking of what we stood for and where we were going. That process," Duggan stated, "as I understand it, galvanized the community into taking some steps that assurred a strongfuture for Saint Mary's. That is to say, the college reaffirmed its commitment to being a Catholic women's liberal arts college." The commitment to remain a Catholic women's liberal arts college is not easy to keep, but Saint Mary's admissions have remained steady and its attrition rates have consis­tently remained lower than the national rate for col­leges ofits comparable size. 
Then where do all the rumors begin? All those stories about the 50 Saint Mary's sophomores who trans­ferred to Notre Dame at the beginning of the present semester (a total of 38 stu­dents from all classes trans­ferred, according to Sister Francesca Kennedy, Saint Mary's registrar)? Or the rumor that Pasquerella West ( PW) is the new Saint Mary's dorm at Notre Dame (PW residents estimate between 20 and 30 of the dorm's in­habitants are from Saint Mary's and did not all trans­fer at the beginning of the present semester)? Or the 
r~· rumor that the Saint Mary's Board of Regents is worried over the increasing numbers 
of students leaving the college? These rumors began where most rumors begin -due to a lack of informa­tion. Perhaps the rumors will end now. 
Observer notes______, 
As a public service, The Observer publishes short press releases, better known as blurbs, submitted by campus and local organizations. All blurbs must be turned in no later than 1 p.m. of the afternoon prior to publication, and they must be typed, double­spaced, or they will not be accepted. Blurbs, unfor­tunately, are not guaranteed publication, and are run only on a space available, priority system as designated by the news editors. We remind that The Observer alone should not be relied upon to publicize events -to ensure some mention ofyour event, submit a separate entry to the On Campus Today section of the paper. 
L---------------------------------~ 

Editorial Board and Department Managers 
Editor-in-Chief.... ..............john McGrath SMC Executive Editor .....................Mary Agnes Carey 
Box Q, Notre Dame, iN 46556 
.11anaging Editor.. ............Tom)ackman SMC News Editor ................................Cathy Domanico 
The Obse~t>er is an independent newspaper published bv the students of rhe 
E:cecutir•e ,'Veu•s Editor .. .................. Lynne Daley Photo Editor...................................................john Macor Untversny of Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. It does not neces~arth .Veu•s Editor.. . ........Tim Vercellotti reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news 1s reported .Veu·s Editor..... ............john Higgins Business Manager....................................Rich Coppola 
as accurately and as objectively as possible. Editorials represent the opinton of a Se01ior Copy Editor .. ..Mary Fran Callahan Controller............... . ..............................joe Mul.flur maJonty of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, opinions, and letters are the \'lew~ Sports Editor .. ......... Michael Ortman Advertising Manager......................................Mark Ellis Features Editor... ............... Rick Hermida Production Manager ...................Ryan Ver Berkmoes 
of rhe1r authors. Column space is available to all members of the communirv. and 
Circulation Manager ........................Tom MacLennan
the free expression of varying opinions on campus. through letters. is encouraged. 

The Observer Tuesday, April 7, 1981 -page 3 
New dimensions 
Atnbassador vie-ws pro·gress 
Ambassador Gale W. McGee, a former teacher at Notre Dame, spoke last evening on "New dimensions in South America for the 1980s" st Carroll Hall. (Photo by Greg MauTY!r) 


By ANNEJANE DREGALLA 
StaffReporter 
Ambassador Gale W. McGee, United States Ambassador to the Or­ganization of American States delivered an address entitled "Latin America: New Dimensions for the 19HO's" at Saint Mary's Carroll Hall last evening as part of a special program sponsored by the Saint Mary's Government Department. 
McGee, who served as the United States Senator from Wyoming from 
1959-1977, emphasized the dif­
ference between serving as an am­
bassador and serving in the Senate. 
"As a Senator," stated McGee, "I had 
many more quick solutions to the 
probit'ms of Latin America Deci­
sions come more quickly when your 
arc one step removed rather than in 
the middle." 
McGee discussed his belief that Americans suffer a severe percep­tual lag about what Latin America is all about. The urban areas now hold two-thirds of the population, result­ing in basic shifts in employment and organization, but the Latin American countries made sig­nificant advancements in the areas of women's rights, economic development, literacy, health and human rights -an area largely con­trolled by the Organization of American States. 
"Women in Latin America," says McGee, "have entered into the mainstream of events. They have become pioneers in social services ofall kinds." The achicvments in the area of econo t mic development propelled Latin America to the posi­tion of third largest customer of Unites States goods and services while quadrupling growth in all economic areas since 1960. The cur­rent literacy level occupies a rate four times higher than that of the 
early sixties and the life expectancy 
rate rose from under 40 in 1950 to 
over 60 in 1980. 
The Organization of American 
States, a body twice as old as the , U.N., holds the responsibility of "isolating quarrells of the hemi­sphere out of the mainstream of , disputes between the east and west. They have the priority of peace­keeping -to snuffout small fires by isolating threats within our hemi­sphere," explained McGee. 
The OAS formed a "distinctive 
regional organization" to deal with 
human rights called the Internation­
al Human Rights Commisssion. This 
commission produced results in 
area~ with human rights t problems as 
"serious as El Salvador and as grave 
as Guatemala." Their seek a com­
mon standard ofhuman rights. 
The Latin American countries, McGee reiterated, "have an innate pride ofhemisphere in their own ac­hievements. They think of them­selves as advanced developing countries and arc sensitive about the areas of human rights and economic dt·vclopmcnt." 
Craven opens Respect Life Week 
ByJEFF CHOPPIN to exist." Ms. Craven said that this children with an education placing StaffPeporter statement reminded her ofher work them in society according to their with the handicapped and also ofhe ability. She called the present educa­
Erma ·C. Craven apppealcd to history lessons about Hitler. She said tional system "fraudulent and with­young people to "carry the torch that "racism has not been out incentive." forward for another l 0-l 5 years" in eliminated" from America and that Ms. Craven expressed regret the human life movement. Her the minorities serve as the about the children of Atlanta but speech, "Abortion and Racial "potential victims ofgenocide." said "it was a drop in the bucket" Genocide" marked the start of the Ms. Craven presented the compared to the I. I million Respect Life lecture series. audience with an image of the "abortion deaths" this year in the 
Ms. Cravt:n referred to several widespread abuses against the poor, United States. who sec the same symptoms in minorities, and the old. She reported "I become concerned when the America today as in pre-Hitler that 50 euthana~ia bills seek ap­state becomes involved in such Europe. She said that genocide is proval in the Florida legislatures and practices as abortion and eut­presently taking place in Amerka that 13 states currently passed eut­hanasia." She added, "What happens and that abortion is its main tool. hanasia laws. to an unborn child is the grossest Also nu:ntiont:d as proponents of Reporting three well publicized form ofchild abuse and the grossest 
genocide were t·uthana~ia, steriliza­cases of infanticide, she quoted form offamily violence." tion, and infanticide. statistics ofhigh sterilization rates in Ms. Craven is the author ofAbor­
Ms. Craven urged people to Puerto Rico and North Carolina. She tion, Poverty, and Black Genocide. address social issues in a humane related the Relf c:~c in Alabama, She currently serves as chairman of way and to present a "viable al­where authorities sterilized at least Minneapolis Commission of Human tt·rnativc rather than a death al­three, and more probably six girls as Rights and is a member of the tnnativc to the poor." She a result ofan anti-poverty program. Women's Advisory Committee of expressed hope that Congress will Ms. Craven called for an adequate the Minnesota State Commission of pass tht· lluman Life Amendment in educational system that provides. Human Rights. 
19H.2. 
The pro-abortion supporters 

speak ofa "target population" which particularly discriminates against the poor, elderly, and minorities, 
Scheduleyournext Frenchclass 
according to Ms. Craven. Thdr views state that it is better to pay 
inFrance. · 
1.200 for an abortion than raise and 
educate the welfare poor. Another view t•xpressed by a pro­
It's a lot easier than you think. As you'll discover in the next issue of Insider-the free t·hoice supporter said that "no life 
supplement to your college newspaper from Ford. And it makes a lot of sense. If you're that cannot sustain itself has no right 
going to learn French, why not learn it from the experts. Insider will include everything you need to know to do just that. We'll tell you how to get there, what it costs, how to plan, differences between American-affiliated 
Go Professional 
universities and foreign learning institutions, an outline of language requirements 
With a Calculator 
and, most importantly, how to find a job. 
From Hewlett-Packard 
So if you've been thinking about taking a semester or two abroad, stop thinking. And next time re~stration comes around, schedule your French class where you'll learn the most. .. in France. 
Don't miss the next issue of Insider. Besides travel tips, you'll see the great new lineup of Fotd cars for 1981. Featuring Escort, Mustang and the exciting new EXP. .. tomorrow is here from the of Ford. 
Look for Insider. Ford's continuing serie~ ofcollege newspaper supplements. 
PO BOX 134-7­SOUTH BENO. IN 41162• 
(219) 233-3175 
FORD 
15% Discount off list Price to 
FORD DIVISION 
Students & Professors 

rl.,..... HEWLETT IL"7".JIII PACKARD 
·-·-.. ........... _._
~·--··.'"·--···-..... 

Jazzfest highlights SUAprilcalendar 
By HANK WAGNER 
News Staff 
Look forward to some interesting offerings from the offices of the Student Union this coming month. First and foremost is Notre Dames' annual celebration of the blues, the Collegiate Jazz Festival, April IO­Il. 
Scheduled speakers for April include Alexander Ginsberg (famous for his activities as a dissident in the USSR) and Frank Shepard, an actor who portrays the poet Robert Frost. Mr. Shepard will spend three days on campus, visiting various classes and mingling with students. 
Bill Lawler, head of the Student Union, described the activities of the past month as successful. He was especially pleased by the student body's response to the series of musicals which the llnion sponsored during March. Chautaqua, which finished its first month ofoperation last week, is doing well. Last Wednesday's feature act, Duke Tomato, was a complete sell out. The Student Union hopes that students will continue to support the coffeehouse. Says Lawler: Right now we're laying the groundwork. We've created ~certain type of atmosphere and the response has been good. He had nothing but praise for all the people involved in the project. 
The Union l:ias also received favorable feedback from its experi­ment on the South Quad, the Oak Room. Lawler believes the establish­ment is suffering from lack ofexposure and is considering a series of An Tostal specials to increase student awareness. 
Long range plans include a Country Rock Jam and a rt·vamping of the traditional Homecoming celebration. 

April brings people out of the confines of the library and into a more pleasant atmosphere of 
sunshine. (Photo by Gre~;Maurer) ­
Price reduction ! 
Giant food chain shelves prices 
NEW YORK (AP) -A Washing­ton, D.C. area supermarket chain has decided to stop marking prices on cans, bottks and boxes, firing anoth­er shot in the battle between con­sumer groups and retailers. 
The salvo came over the weekend from Giant Food Inc., which said prices would be removed from items over a period of four to eight weeks. Prices will be marked on shelves instead of on individual items. 
Ann Lower, a spokeswoman for the Consumer Federation of America, a coalition of local con­sumer groups, said the removal of 
I. item prices "will probably spread," although she also said shoppers oppose the idea. 
Barry Scher. a spokesman for Giant, which has about 120 stores in and around the nation's capital, conceded that the success of the 

LSAT • MCAT • GRE 
GRE PSYCH • GRE BID· MAT GMAT • OAT· OCAT • PCAT VAT· SAT ·CPA· TOEFL 
MSKP • NAT'L MED BDS ECFMG • FLEX • VQE NOB • NPB I • NLE 
~-HIUIPIAN 
EDUCATIONAL CENTER 
Test Preparat1on Special1slsS1nce 1938 
program will depend "entirely on consumer acceptance." A Florida chain, Publix Super Markets, tried ending item pricing earlier this year, but Mark Hollis, the store's vice president, said the experiment was abandoned because ofcustomer op­position. 
To win support for its program, Giant said that it is lowering prices on 1,500 to 2,QOO ofthe 15,00 items in its stores. Giant also is offering grease pencils to shopperS who want to copy the shelf prices onto the individual items. 
The controversy began in the ear­ly 1970s with the introduction of the Universal Product Code -a combination of Jines and symbols identifying individual items and their prices. The code was designed to be "read" by an electronic scan­ner at the check-out counter. 
Retailers said the code and scan­ning systems could cut costs, speed checkouts and, ultimately, save money for both shoppersand stores. 
The plan drew strong opposition from consumer groups and labor unions representing supermarket employees. About half a dozen states, as well as a number of cities, passed laws requiring item pricing. 
The stores say consumers can still use comparison shoping by using shelfprices. They also claim that the scanners are more accurate than humans. Giant has promised to im­prove the signs on the shelves and advertises that ifrhe price registered 
1 
CAMPUS 
VIEW 
... APARTMENTS 
NOW RENTING FOR SUMMER 
I BEDROOM-$230 2 BEDROOM.$275 
(monthly rates) special low summer rates: available June-August 15 

from 7 -9 p.m. will be conducted byJane Hobing, RN and Leslie Baker, 
utmties paid. central air and 
heated pool. 
THE place to be off-campus 
for info , call: 272-1441 

SUMMER S!ORAGI SPAOI Special discount for llDlSMC students Security Patrol Checks 259-033& SELF LOCK STORAGE OF MCKIIILEY d 16 East Me Kinley Mishawaka  


by the scanner on any particular item is higher than the price marked on the shelf, the customer will get one ofthose items for free. 
A representative for an East Coast supermarket chain, who said he did not want his name used because he was speaking for himself only, not for the company, said he thought most other retailers would be hesitant to remove individual prices. "It's not worth the loss ofcustomer good will," he said. "Even if the cus­tomers don't really care (about item prices), they get stirred up by all the publicity." 
• • .Bloc 
continuedfrom page 1 
cause Brezhnev may be unable to rally enthusiastic support for any­thing resembling full-scale interven­tion. 
U.S. Secretary of State Alexander 
M. Haig Jr., on a Mideast trip, said Sunday Brezhnev's visit to Prague may mean the Czechoslovak party congress is "an important occasion with respect to Soviet action affect­ing the Polish situation." He said he did not believe Soviet military in­tervention was imminent, however. 
Brezhnev's visit was not an­nouncd until he left Moscow on Sunday. 
The White House reported Presi­dent Reagan sent Brezhnev a message on Poland Friday night but no response has been reported... 
engines. But officials believed liftoff would come on schedule because there is time built into the schedule to handle just such problems. 
The mission will mark the first flight of the first ship developed for multiple trips into space. The shuttles -there are to be at least four of them -are designed to fly about 100 times each with one engine replacement. 
The astronauts who will fly the Colu t mbia, John Young and Robert Crippen, were a thousand miles from the Cape at the Johnson Space Center in Houston, doing some last minute cramming for a flight already two years overdue. They are flying make-believe launches and touch­downs in simulators, and studying flight plans. 
Young, a 50-year-old veteran of 
four previous space flights and Crip­
pen, a rookie at 43, said goodbye to 
their families Sunday and went into a 

caused by fast flowing fuel, a motion 
not unlike that felt on a child's pogo 
stick. "In the process of rubbing 
one of these wires to the bare cop­
per, there was a short, which in turn 
caused a fuse to blow," Shuttle Test 
Director Bill Schick said. 
Schick said that by the time the countdown reaches the 5-hour mark -just before the critical loading of · supercold propellant gases -every wire in the spaceship will have been checked and double-checked for 
just such faults. 
The countdown, scheduled to last 
three days and one hour, began on 
schedule at 11:30 p.m. Sunday. In ad­
dition to those 73 hours, another 30 
hours and 20 minutes are planned as 
"holds'~ -for crew rest and for 
fixing unforseen problems like the 
pogo valve. 
If all goes well, the shuttle will 
blast off at 6:50 a.m. Friday for a 36­
orbit, 54 .. hour test flight. 
The driver ofthis car ran into some difficulty as he tried to leave a Bookstore Basketball
Qops! 
Game. (Photo by Greg Maurer) 
Series in vegetarian meals 
The Wellness Support Center of Memorial Hospital will offer a series• in Vegetarian meal planning, April 7, 21, and 28, at the Cornucopia Res­taurant, 303 South Michigan St. 
Part I on Tuesday, April 7 from 7 
-9 p.m. will be conducted by Jane Hobing, RN. The class will cover basic instruction in proper combin­
~~ l\id)ar~~ ing of food to t meet daily protein needs.
fH~lMA FUS~ 
Part II on April 21 and April 28 
· 
129 OIXI~ WAr S ROSELAND 
cook at the Cornucopia The class on 
IUS 31 Nl ACROSS FROM RANDALL'S INN 
April 21 will be a demonstration in nature with tasting included. The April 28th class will be a sharing ses­sion between participants ofrecipes
277-0734 
and techniques in cooking. 

Tuesday, April 7, 1981 -page 5
The. Observer 
• • . Daniels 
continuedfrom page 1 
Saturday noon and a hamhurger 
with two pieces of cheese Saturday 
night, or vice versa," ht• wrote. 
Price chided Vickit· for spmding 
too much of her grocery budget on 
swet·ts. 
''Jelly rolls, pie mix, cookies, Pop­sides, t•tc.," he said. "Instead, buy more carrots, raisins, celery, apples, grapefruits, etc. 
"Similarly, quit completely, stop absolutely forever and ever, stop­ping at Sonics, Dairy Queens, etc., for Cokes and ice cream. It's not only a waste of money, it's a had habit." 
Vickie also had a complaint about her husband's eating habits. Vickie also had ao nplaint about ht·r husband's eating habits. 
"I think you should cat at the table, and not have me serve rou in the playroom," she wrote. "I'm not a waitress anymore. I'm your wife." 
llc:r number one complaint about her husband was that he belittled her. 
"Never make fun of or put me down," she admonished. "Kid, yes. Joke, yes. But no snipes." 
In a list of things he should do to improve the marriage, Daniel wrote: "do not lose my temper. Do not retaliate or try to get back. Try, try, try to avoid what Vickie calls put­downs, especially when they are being interprett:d by her as being mean or bad." 
Vickie:, talkative and outgoing, was a contrast to Daniel's silent stiff upper lip approach to problems. 
"Let me in on a few things that you do," she wrote. "Tell me about deals you make at the office (personal) so I don't hear about them from some­body else. Ifyou '¥ant anything from me, ask. Don't expect me to know your every thought." 
Daniel pledged to improve his communications. 
"Show my feelings more openly and communicate more freely," he continued on the list of things he should do. "Quit always being in such hurry. Try to contain the nerv­ous energy that prevents me from watching a whole TV show, sitting 
Haig blames Syria for latestconflict 
AMMAN, Jordan (AP) -U.S. Secretary ofState Alexander M. Haig Jr. blamed Syria yesterday for the latest explosion of fighting in Lebanon and said it could have "most serious" consequences. 
A senior U.S. official in the Haig 
party told reporters "great pressure" 
was building in Israel for Israeli 
forces to intervene on the side ofthe 
Lebanese Christians in their 6-day­
old hattie against the Syrian army. 
"We art· right on the brink, in my judgment, of a major outbreak in hostilities," said the State Depart­ment official, who asked not to he identified. 
llaig flew to Amman yesterday and met with Jordan's King Hussein aftt·r a 14-hour visit to Israel. 
The American secretary and Hus­~cin met for more than two hours, 4S minutes longer than scheduled. A 
U.S. official said the Jordanian monar<:h presented his views of the Palt·stinian problem !O llaig, and the two dis<:ussed the situation in Lt·hanon. 
from hnt· Haig goes to Saudi Arabia on today, wrapping up a four­nation Midca.~t tour before flying on to Europe. 
In Israel, the outbreak of fighting around the Lebanese Christian t'rll'lavc of Zahle and in the capital of Beirut was a major topic in Haig's 
discussions with Israeli lt·adcrs. The senior official who briefed reporters on those discussions said that "since the intense shelling of 1978, Lebanon has not been this bad." 
Expressing concern that the fight­ing could spread, he said it already involves the Syrians, elements ofthe Palestinian population, right-wing Christian forces and the Lebanese armed forces, all ofwhom could get more deeply involved if the fighting does not end soon. 
He said Israel may also get in­volved if there is not cease-fire that holds. 
"There is gcat pressure building in 
Israel itself on the Israeli govern­
ment, to do something to protect 
the Christians," he said. 
The Israelis provide support of Lebanese Christians in their continuing conflict with Palestinian guerrillas in southernmost Lebanon. The Syrian forces entered Lebanon in 1976 to enforce a truce in the civil war between the Christians and an alliance of Palestinians and Lebanese leftist Moslems. Christian militias have resisted the Syrian occupation. 
llaig, speaking with reporters before leaving Jerusalem, said the Syrian "hrutality"in attacking Zahle was 'a very, very serious turn of events which is unacceptable hy any measure of appropriate internation­al standards ofconduct" 
"The consequences of a failure of a return to a cease-fire are most, most serious," he said. 
still, talking for more than five minutes at a time." 
Despite their attempts, the lists failed to heal the wounds. Mrs. Daniel came across the list later and wrote Daniel a letter in another at­tempt at reconciliation. 
"Why don't you come off your thrown (sic) and let your wife, who loves you, touch you and feel as one and not feel like you're someone who can't. be moved," she said in a letter also submitted into evidence. 
"Don't treat me like a peasant with no sense. Your thrown (sic) will crumble one of these days and you're going to need someone who loves you." 
The letter ends in an elaborately scrawled "Love you" and a smiling stick figure ofa girl. 
An Tostal 

The cool, sunny weatheryesterday was perfectfor many outdoor activities including roller skating. (Photo by Greg Maurer) 
Assassins, tubers kick offfestival 
By NORMAN PLATE begin this week include the Ultimate Open is a golf tournament which News Staff Frisbee contest, the traditional Mud will conclude on April 25. The Volleyball tournament, and , variety show will he performed on 
Mass Assassins and the lnnertubc Bookstore Ba.'iketball. Bookstore 
Watcrpolo tournament have started, Basketball promises to be a success 
marking the beginning of An Tostal this year with 384 teams playing on 
ceremonies which will culminate on 12 courts from now until the end of 
April 23, 24, and 25. 
An Tostal. 
Five-hundred people joined the Another traditional event which 
first campus-wide contest of Mass will take place on "Sunny Saturday" 
Assassins which is scheduled to end is the Chariot Race. The only dif­
on "Sunny Saturday," April 25. ference from past years will be the 
According to An Tostal Chairman expansion of participation. "We 
Mitch Feikes, less than 100 people hope to have some girls' teams," said 
remain in contention in an event Feikes. 
which is going "real well." New events for this year's An Tos­
The lnnertube Waterpolo tourna­tal include the An Tostal Open, a kite 
ment, also scheduled to end on flying contest, a pie eating contest, 
"Sunny Saturday," has 600 par­and a show. The Antostal 
ticipants. Four games are played 
each night from now through An 
Tostal. 
Events which arc scheduled to 
Right to Life 
offers Respect Life Week 
The ND-SMC Right to Lift: is sponsoring a Respect Life Week from April 5-11. Films and talks throughout the week will cover such subjects as capital punishment, genetic engineering, racial genocide, euthanasia, and abortion. Schedules may be picked up in the Ton Dooley Room in LaFortune. 
Also during Respect Life Week members of ND-SMC Right to Life will he wearing a black armband with a red pro-life rose on is in memory of the 1.4 million unborn children killed each year by abor­tion. 
,
!JUNIORS • 
Sign-ups for Senior Class Trip to the Bahamas will be held April 8 and 9. Lafortune: 11am-2 pm. 
"Gentle Thursday," April 2:\. at 7:00 
p.m. at the Angela Athletic facility on the Saint Mary's campus. The show will consist of about 10 a~:ts which will be chosen from auditions which will he held in the next few 
weeks. 
An Tostal Chairman Mitch fc:ikes is assisted by an executive staffof 20 people and 300 general committee members. "I can't believe how well things are going," said fc:ikes, "the staff is doing a great job." Wht·n a.~ked if he foresaw any difficulties, Fc:ikcs replied, "All we need is good weather." 
ATTENTION STUDENTS The deadline for final application for summer employment, coordinated through local alumni clubs, is friday, April 1ol Applications can be obtained and returned to the Alumni Office, 20 1 Administration Bldg.  
r­1------­.·...: 'i•• •~I[]( .... -­--=----­..--_-­__-___ ------·-­ 
STEPAN CENTER Apri/10­April 11 7:30pm 12:30-5 6:30-1 JUDGES: Richard Davis Joe Farrell Mel Lewis Jim McNeeley Dan MorgensternMike Vax Tickets on sale NOW in LaFortune  


·---------------· 
Tuesday, April 7, 1981 -page 6 
Features 
Mar..y Fran Callahan 
Gertrude Stein: Portrait ofa complex woman 
T
he scene is Paris; the address, 27 Rue de Fleurus. The apartment is filled with paintings and dotted with Vic­torian furniture. It is home for literary great Gertrude Stein and a place she proclaimed "an international shrine for modern art." Accomplished actress Pat Carroll portrayed Stein in her Parisian apartment Wednesday night in Gertrude Stein, Gertrude Stein, Gertrude Stein. The one-woman play illuminated the complex character, which is clearly no simple task. ofthe famed writer. 
The staging for the play is clever; Stein monologues for two hours. The play opens, however, with the author having been evicted from her much loved apartment. Before pack­ing, she proceeds to reflect and reminisce on her life -so much ofit which occurred within the Rue's walls. This ploy 
forms the play's plot. 
Stein namedrops profusely, almost obnoxiously, but keeps people attuned to hertete a tetes because they are not mere gossip. They are followed with insights into humanity in general. 
The author speaks frequently ofher brother Leo, who wished to spend his life painting. When he turns away from painting, however, she cannot forgive him, and their artistic beliefs sever their once close familial bond. He resents her literary success, contending she has stolen his artistic ideas, and then likens her work to "garbage." Ofcourse, the audience solely receives Stein's side ofthe story. 
The author claims she was greatly influenced by Pablo Pic­casso's artistic theories, which she applied to literature. Stein said he "carried his head like a priceless bust," and credited him with inspiring her. Interestingly enough, at the age of58, Stein experienced a literary dry spell and at­tributed her renewal ofink to Picasso. The artist had turned his thoughts to writing, and told Stein he had entirely given up painting. She critiqued his poetry, however, admiringon-

Pat Can-ol/ as Gertrude Stein 
ly "his handwriting." Picasso then decided to solely pursue his art, and his renewed artistic interest sparked her literary interest -causing her to once more take pen in hand and pen novels extraordinaire. 
Gertrude Stein, however, always labelled herself "different," and struggled with her deviation from the norm throughout life. She was obese and found a certain security in obesity saying, "I was fat -very fat, very fat. Being fat al­lows you to live in your own world and not experience the fear and terror..." She was also gay. After attending Radcliffe, she would have gone on to medical school, but instead fell in love with a woman named May. She could not cope with traditional American culture and could not deal with her California roots. At 29, she decided to devote her life to her 
"passion for words and sentences" and packed for Paris. 
In Europe, she became a literary acquaintance ofErnest 
Hemingway, who she said always carried a knife because he 
believed ifpeople thought you would kill, they would leave 
you alone. Hemingway, incidently, committed suicide in 
1961. 
Stein later alienated her colleague, however, because he 
and his wife Hadley could not deal with Alice, her second 
lover. Alice's job consisted primarily ofserving tea and 
staying in the kitchen when literary greats appeared at 
Stein's doorstep. This chauvinistic relationship reveals yet 
another intriguing facet ofthe author's character. 
And complex is the only word which can accurately 
describe that character. Carroll flawlessly portrayed Stein's 
complexity. One minute, she is puffing on a cigar, telling jokes and laughing loudly at her own jokes. The next mo­. ment she is pondering the question: "What happens to the 
identity when confronted with memory and eternity?" Such 
philosophical tangents are then quickly brushed aside by 
memories ofromping through bakeries with Alice or the 
time she wore a robe and sandals (traditional personal garb) 
in Barcelona and was mistaken for a bishop. 
One does not know what to make ofthis character. 
There is her artsy streak which enabled her to pen great 
novels. There is her obnoxious, gabby, humorous preten­
tious facade. There is her deeply philosophical side. And 
beneath it all is a very vulnerable person -a character 
which Carroll depicts in flashes ofbrillant monologue 
coupled with subtle, yet effective, gestures and expressions. 
All in all, one simply realizes how complex the woman 
was. Perhaps then, one can only conclude with one ofStein's 
ownobservations that there are no clear-cut answers to any­
thing -merely questions. 

getic, and a fiery player. Unfor­surprised with Chautauqua's ability tunately, it was all too obvious to comfortably accommodate a Wednesday night, that the rest ofthe crowd of350 people. 
band could not come close to This ability certainly speaks well matching him in any ofthese vital for the possibility ofa successful areas. 
• future for Notre Dame's new cof­One final note: I was pleasantly 
feehouse...Chautauqua. 
Paul Bertolini 
Chautauqua grooves again 
• • . Duke lacks technical edge 
A
lright. Is everybody ready for a little personal philosophy to kick off this weekend? 
I've come to believe that Notre Dame, like life, is a package deal. Everyone, upon acceptance to this glorious institution receives, as stan­dard equipment, a very large meta­physical box. 
The contents ofthis package vary only slightly from person to person. Along with sporting events (UCLA upsets and USC defeats) we get in­dividually wrapped bundles ofhan­govers, boring classes, administrative hassles, sexual frustrations (a very imposing package) and the latest Bruce Springsteen fanaticisms. 
At the bottom ofthis box, every student willfind a smaller (but still attractively wrapped) package labeled Duke Tumatoe and the All­Star Frogs. 
There are few NO students wh;J have not been subjected to the lavish praises bestowed upon Duke by some incoherent classmate fresh from his latest outing to the now defunct "Vegetable Buddies." I, like all of us, have heard the praises. I, like few of us, had never heard Duke 
before. 
As I entered Chautauqua this past Wednesday, I was greeted by the sight of350 Duke-crazed students. I dutifully took up my position on the floor (the chairs and tables had been removed to accomodate the capacity crowd) and prepared myselfto have my expectations met. 
They were not."What?" I hear you cry incredulously. Well, give me a chance to explain. Yes, Duke himself is a crowd pleaser. Yes, he is a vel) polished entertainer. And yes, he did manipulate the crowd into an ecstatic frenzy. But, beyond the man himself, I can find very little else upon which to bestow praise. 
My complaints with this perfor­mance lie in two general areas: 1 ) The Sound: The organ, bass, and lower range ofDuke's guitar all blended together to form one in­coherent "mushy" buzz. 
There was no seperation ofsound between these three instruments. Furthermore, whenever Duke soloed the keyboards (played by James Mitchell )"disappeared." 
Duke must have felt compelled to reciprocate however, because every time Mitchell took a solo, Duke "disappeared." 
Mitchell was basically inaudible the entire night. In short, balance was terrible. In addition, the bass (played by L.V. Hammond) had no "edge" or "ping" to the sound. This results in an indistinct, and hence, rhythmically tentative bass line. 
Robin Steele on drums was blatantly counterproductive to any feeling ofswing which Duke was attempting to create. He was clearly a rock drummer making a feeble atempt to place himselfwithin Duke's concept ofswing blues. 
Steele's playing was uni· maginative, and uninspired (about halfway through the first set I would have sold my soul for a ride rhythm). In addition, Mitchell's Rhodes piano and Duke's guitar sounded as ifthey were being played through a three dollar transistor radio. 
2) The Feel: The feel, or rather, the lack ofone, was a direct result of Steele's uninspiring drums, and Hammond's mushy bass. Not once did Duke and his Frogs swing with anything approximating intensity. 
At no time during the perfor­mance did Hammond or Steele do what bass players and drummers are supposed to do, namely get on top of the beat and DRIVE. 
Rather, both were apparently con­tent to drift along in their own world of rhythmic mediocrity. 
O.K. Enough. In all fairness, many ofthe sound problems (and their disastrous ramifications on the rhythmic feel) may have been beyond the control of Duke and the All-Star Frogs. 
The sound problems can almost certainly be ascribed to a soundman working in an unfamiliar and acoustically tricky room. 
It is important to point out here that all ofthe mixing as well as all of the amplification and speaker equip­ment was handled directly by mem­bers of Duke's crew. 
The blame, in no way, should be attached to the staffofChautauqua. 
As far as Duke himselfgoes, his ability to entertain and manipulate a crowd is surpassed only by his technical abilities on his guitar. 
Time and again he whipped the crowd into a frenzy with his virtuis­tic skills. True to my expectations, watching Duke play was nearly as enjoyable an experience as listening to him. 
Duke himselfis exciting, ener­
--------------~--~~----------~---~­
The Obset:Ver 
~~c:]l~~==============================T=u=es=d=a=y,~A=p=ri=l=7,=1=9=8=l===p=ag=e~7 
Molarity 





Michael Molinelli 
St. Rd. 23 at Bittersweet 277-3143 Specializing in: 
Hickory Smoked Ribs and Rib Tips, Broasted Cllicken, Broasted Potatoes, Sandwiches, and now Pizza 
TUES. THRU THURS. 
TIP/CHICKEN COMBO 
Hours Fri. IIAM-IOPM Tues. thru Thurs. Sat. 4PM · IOPM IIAM-9PM Closed Sun &Mon. 
$3.69 
Campus 
• 
12:1 5 p.m. -lenten mass, fr. griffin, Ia forrunc rathskeller, all arc welcome. 

•4 
p.m.-respect life week: film, "whatever happened to the human race," segment II, 327 madclcva. 

•6 
p.m.-an tostal water polo games, rockne mcm. pool. 

•7 
p.m.-chaplin film series: "the great dictator," annenberg auditorium, spons: t·nglish dept. admission S 1.00. 

•7, 
10 p.m.-film, "my fair lady," engr. aud., spons. glee club, admission S U)(}. 

•7:.30 
p.m.-meeting, ladies of nd business meeting, smc club 


---------------------~--------------.. 
Tuesday, April 7, 1981 -page 8 
CAN YOUADD, SUBTRACT, MULTIPLYANDDIVIDE? THENENTER THE .... 

MPH Games Company/Garners Anonymous 
Regional KRYPTO Tournament 
Saturday, April 11 thru Sunday, April 26 
IN THE NAZZ r Competition hegins at2 PM each day l NO entry fee Register at door NO admission charge 

OPEN TO ALL NOTRE DAME ST MARY'S COLLEGE FACULTY AND STUDENTS 

WINNER RECEWES: 
* 
Dinner for two at Tippecanoe Place 

* 
All-expense paid trip to International Tourney in Chicago 

* 
Complete line of MPH Games Company products 


® STIMULATES BRAIN POWER-MPH GAMES 
SEMI-FINALISTS WIN: 
COMPANY proudly intro­
KrYPta 
duces you to KRYPTO ... the International Arithmetic Game that is fun to play ­
* Complete line of MPH games 

easy to learn -and forever a challenge. 
In the face of today's elec­
tronic game age, there is 
* Special T -shirt 
a non-electric game that is literally sweeping the world without one bleep or beep ... it's a game that lets players solve arithmetic problems that are extremely complex ~______ andnotsocomplex ... totally
ALL FINALISTS WIN: 
in the player's mind. And, players do this faster than pen, fingers, calculators, computers and/or any other 
* "KRYPTO CHALLENGER" T -shirt ;..· ­
mechanical method. \ 

he Observer 
Tuesday, April7, 1981 -page 9 
Strike possible 
~dsopen'Slseasori 
CINCINNATI (AP) -Nobody  the sellout crowd of more than  formed a picket line outside the  
knows who will throw out the first  SO.OOO, accepted a new contract  stadium on opening day before the  
ball of the 19RI ba.~eball season nor  giving them a 20 percent raise.  Reds game with the San Francisco  
how long the players will be playing,  Local 3 7'i ofthe Office anu Profes­ Giants.  
but at least the ushers will be  sional Employees Union had  The strike in 1972 over pension  
working at Riverfront Stadium.  threatened to strike after they  benefits cancelled the schedukd  
The Cincinnati Reds, baseball's  rejected a flat 112. 'iO-per-game• hike  'April S inaugural game with the  
first professional team, opens the  for overtime for any game that lasts  Houston Astros. The strike wa.~  
National League's 19R I seasc9-n with  more than five hours.  settled I 0 days latl'f, and the Red!;  
the World Champion Philadelphia  The ushers will now get Sl 7 for  and the Los Angdes Dodgers started  
Phillies tomorrow afternoon.  the first five hours, up Sl.SO, and  the shortened sea.~on before a smal­ 
But for the · third consecutive  S2.SO for overtime. Last season they  1ler crowu of-~ 7,1-195.  
season, baseball opens under a labor  got Sl S.SO per game. and S I. SO  In past years, unsettled early  
threat.  overtime.  spring weather has het·n a problem  
This year, the Major League  Meanwhile, the Reds haven't  for the game. Ground crews had to  
Players Association has threatened  decided who will throw out the first  shovel up four inches of snow from  
to strike May 29 unless there is an  ball. President Ronald Reagan had  the artificial service for the 1977  
agreement on the veterans free  agreed but was wounded last week.  game, and the 1972 game wa.~  
agent system, the same issue that  Vice President George Bush said  played in a drenching rain.  
suspended the spring exhibition  yesterday that he couldn't attend,  It will be "warmisb hut wettish"  
game schedule in 1980.  either, because he ha.d too many  this year, says Bill Cox, weather  
commitments between his own  specialist for the National Weather  
schedule and sitting in for Reagan  ·Service at Cincinnati. Although the  
while president recuperates.  temperatures will he in tht· mid-60s,  
One of two former Iranian  there is a chance of showers and  


hostages accepted invitations to the game and might be elected for the first-ball honors -Bert C. Moore of Mount Vernon, Ohio, and Leland Holland, whose children live in Cin­cinnati. 
Two years ago, striking umpires thunderstorms, he said. 

The 1974 opener with the AtlanU Braves drew more than the usual na­tional interest. Braves outfielder Henry tied the 714 carn·r home: rllfl mark set by Babe Ruth and went on to break it later in Atlanta . 
•  Paid Position  
•  Book Bands  
•  Oversee Shows  

No Experience necessary 
Due April 1Oth 

Sports Special -Major League Previews 
Tuesday, April 7, 1981 -page 10 
Thepicks:-O,s, Royals, Phils &Astros 
Like Dad always said, "In the long run, good pitching beats good hitting every time." But in the American League's East Division, good pitching alone is not enough. 
During the off-season, this division had more personnel changes than any other. Bos­ton dealt four ofits top players to other teams. Milwaukee sent half of its roster from under the shadow ofthe Miller and Schlitz breweries 

to the land of August Busch. The Orioles just sat tight and licked their wounds, but that may Boston (83·77) -Where have all the Red have been enough. Sox gone? Lynn, Burleson, Hobson, and Fisk 
The trades aren't over in the division that is are all somewhere else this year, with nothing beginning to look like a Welcome Wagon con­but Carney Lansford to show for it. Thousands vention. Watch for the Brewers to dump a of Red Sox fans are wondering why the dub 
catcher. the Orioles to try for a shortstop, and didn't pick up any quality pitchers, or at least the Red Sox to deal a second baseman. dump the pitcher-impersonators that they Here's how I see baseball's toughest divi­have. New manager Ralph Houk_ has his work sion shaping up by the time October rolls cut out for him on a team where Rice, Yaz, 
around. 
Perez, and Eckersley are the saving graces. Baltimore (100-62) -Earl Weaver can 
Cleveland (79-81) -Injuries killed thewin 1 5 games on his own, and the Orioles also Indians chances last year, with Andrehave the league's best pitching staff working Thornton and Duane Kuiper getting the worstfor them. If Doug DeCinces can stay healthy, in that department. Picking up Bert Blyleventhe Birds may return to their World Se.-ies 
will help Dave Garcia's squad improve, as will form of 1979. 
the further development ofhurlers Len Barker 
Milwaukee (86-76) -The Brewers are and Dan Spillner. Chicago cast-offs Dilone, strong up the middle with the addition OfTed Bannister, Orta and Pagel will all make big Simmons, baseball's best, behind the plate, contributions. and Paul Molitor moving to center. The 
Toronto (67-95) -There was nowhere to Brewers are strong outside, too, especially 
go but up for the Blue jays, and that is where with newly-acquired third baseman Roy 
they are headed, slowly but surely. Jim Clancy Howell and the prospect of a healthy Larry 
and Dave Stieb are two of the best young Hisle. Their pitching is questionable, but the 
pitchers in the ga~e, and they will team up sluggers could carry this team. 
with Paul Mirabella and rookie Jackson Todd New York (103-59) -The acquisition of 
to make a formidable pitching stable. The loss Dave Winfield may yet lead to some dissen­
of Roy Howell hurt, but Danny Ainge is more sion among the pinstriped ranks, but where 
than qualified to fill those shoes. would New York be without a few fist-fights? Detroit (84-78) -Sorry, Sparky. Steve This team is deep, especially in the outfield. Kemp and Champ Summers can hit, but that's Piniella, Gamble, Murcer, and Brown will fight about all the Tigers sport at the plate. Another for platooning spots in an outfield that already year without Kirk Gibson will mean more features ReggieJackson,Jerry Mumphrey, and trouble. The Tigers need comebacks from Winfield. The pitching staff is getting older, pitchers Dave Rozema and Mark "The Bird" but no less effective. Look for New York, as Fidrych, and they just aren't going to get them. always, to make a run, and perhaps overtake You can't rely on Milt Wilcox andJack Morris the Brewers. to be your stoppers. 
A few years back, Philadelphia Eagles foot-... ball coach Dick Vermeil was asked his opinion as to who would win the NFC East. Vermeil 
Craig Chval 
replied: "The Cowboys won it last year, and I didn't see them graduate too manyseniors." Sports Writer The American League champion Kansas City Royals graduated just one senior, free 
A.L. West
agent catcher Darrell Porter, and their align­ment in the AL West is akin to turning the Cowboys loose on the NCAA. Billy Martin will self-destruct (and take _the 
Kansas City (97-65) -With the excep-ream with him) just when Oakland is on the tion of Porter, the Royals' everyday lineup verge· of the playoffs. Tremendous starting returns intact, with just Willie Wilson and pitching and perhaps the best outfield in Amos Otis flip-flopping outfield positions, as baseball will prevent the A's from slipping too ManagerJim Frey has wisely decided to move far. the speedier Wilson from left to center. Texas (76-85) -The Rangers have "Famous Amos" is one of the game's great changedowners, butnot_strategies. Anexcep­pouters, and if h(: casts a pall over the Royals' tiona! third b,aseman, Buddy Bell, and the best happy clubhouse. he'll be more trouble than defensive catcher in the league,JimSundberg, his considerably eroded talents are worth. won't be enough to ovetcome the Rangers' 
John Wathan filled i!J. admitably behind the tried but untrue shuttle system. Outflelder,!\1 plate last spring when Porter was putting his oliver and first baseman Pat Putnam are life back together., .and the job is all his. The quality bats and newcomer.Rick Honeycutt Royals' starters are'unspectacular yet depend· will help an ailing pitching staff. Fireballing able, an9-as long as they have submarining reliever Jim Kern ·has to rebound frotn.a ban Quisenberry bailing them ·(>Ut from the miserable '80 campaign for Tex<ll! to have ally bullpen,' they'll get th<i job done. What more delusions ofgrandeur. can be said about the incompar.Wle George Minnesota(77-84) -The Twins, intheir 
Brett? The ageless Hal McRae is a winner and pitiful state, could have improved themselves the league's best DH. Wilson will bounce back at just about any position by trading up-and­from his World Series nightmare. comingoutfielder Ken LandreaJlX. Remarkab-Califunia (65-95) -The Angels .made Iy, they swapped him for Dodger third wholesale changes -Fred Lynn, Rick Bur· ~aseman Mickey Hatcher. It will be a warm leson, Butch Hobson, et al-butdidn't rectify· winter in Bloomington before Hatcher will their only glaring weakness,. pitching. ln fact, displace smoothJohn Castino at third base, so they made matters worse by including he'll be relegated toright field. -The only other reliever ~1ark Clear in one of their Boston things Twin fans will have to cheer will be deals. An imcomparable everyday lineup, but shortstop Roy Smalley, catcher Butch they can't win without pitching. Wynegar and Bud Grant, beginning in August. 
Chicago (70·90) -Easily the league's Managerial wizard Gene Mauch perennially most improved team. Just how much Carlton kept this franchise higher than it belonged. Fisk helps a brilliant young pitching staff will Now that he's gone, Minnesota may fall all the determine how far the Sox will go. If he can way into the basement. get them to reach anywhere near their poten· Seattle (59·103) -Any team stupid tial, third place may be a conservative es-enough to trade for both Richie "How .to timate. Keys to season are untried middle of Become a Millionare with Three Good infield (SS Todd Cruzand 28Tony Bernazard) Months" Zisk and Jeff Burroughs in the same and another big season from reliever Ed Far~ off-season deserves what it gets, namely the mer ( 30 saves in '80). Sophomore rightfielder . cellar. Both ·defensive lummoxes will cost Harold Baines will be AL's next superStar. manager Maury Wills as .many runs as .they 
Oakland (83-79) -The,A's an: at a fotldtl produce, Young pitchers Floyd BaJllliiStelUUJt<l the road, andneitberdloiceiS pleasant Either Shane Rawley providesome lightat 1980 was a ftuke, anq ttJey'~ pe~ghta.1tthleerid<lifl typically horrendous 
Many cyt)~i> criticize the.National League llast aS being one of ba$eball's weaker divi· sidns, bqt f()rthe pas~ two seasons it has ptoduced the t:ventu;d. World Champion ­Pittsburgh i.(l 1979 and Philadelphia last season; .And f(lttwo straight years, the race for the·_NL Jl.iJSt title nas gone down. to th.e final 
weekend ofth(i S(:ason..· · · ...Last year; the Pbillles edged out Montreal 

by winning tw;ti ~i:ra,ight from. the .£~pos. in, "workingman's team," to California(forJason 
•· ()lympipStm:lium In games number 160 and Thompson) may be too much to bear. Starting ~§J ofthese3S(Jn;went on tothe World Series pitching . is suspect. Overall, the Bucs title, and t.hen satback while a million joyous desperately need good seasons ftom Bill Mad­Philadelphians payed homage to th"··· ;,, a lock and Dave. Parker, who slacked off last parade down Broad Street. year, to have a prayer at the division title. 
But that waS last yeat. The big question is, New York (67-9S) -"The Magic is Back" can the Phillies, w:ho have won the NL East was the slogan Madison Avenue pinnedon the four ofthe last five seasons, repeat? They may Mets last year, and they responded with an have a good shot at it. exciting run at first place that lasted until 
Philadelphia (91-71) -In the eyes of about August. Now, King Kong (a.k.a Dave many, the World Champs have gotten better. Kingman) is back in New York and is back in They stole Gary Matthews from Atlanta, and form -hitting home runs and blowing off have pitchers Sparky Lyle and Marty Bystrom, selected spt>rts writers. The addition ofRandy who were key performers in the September-Jones and a healthy Craig Swan, plus the stretch dr!Ye, for the full season. The Phillies dynamic duo ofNeil Allen andJeffReardon in also ridthemselv~s ofproblem children Greg the bullpen, should propel Gotham City Lozinski and Randy .Lerch. Last season, above .500, if not higher. And if they should eyeryi)ne Sta,y(!d healthy; this year, though, free batting champ Bill Buckner from ~ anda key injury ortwo <:ould kill their Chicago, as has been rumored, there may be chancesJorrepeating more thanJoy in Mudville this summer. 
Mo,ntt~·-(90.,72) St. Louis (74-88) -Whitey Herzog drasti· 
upjust Sltc.,rt c>f cally changed the face of this team of heavy hitters, but not necessarily for the better.. They gained Bruce Sutter, but in the process sacrificed team·leader Ted Simmons and all~ star Ken Reitz, and left·gaping holes at second, third and in the outfield. Too many qu•estion I marks and too little starting pitching relegate the Cardinals to tifth. 
Chicago (64-98) -The Cubbies, God · thek souls, ·lost .Sutter' and Kingman and gained little in the process. This team is still the victim ofan owner who continueS to live in theDark Ages. So the players will continti¢ to be undcrpayed, and whatever talent ~he Cubs do have will continue to wilt while pt:>.y; g day games in the brutal summersun.A sure t)et for last place for years to come. 
The Kansas City Royals built a World Series contender by tailoring a team to fit their bal­lpark -Gary Grassey
a high-scoring diamond where the fleet-footed, slap-hitting, and sleek-fielding 
Asst. Sports Editor
reveL · In Houston, Tex., where the lights are dim, the power-alleys deep, and the money plenti­
N.L. West
ful, the hometown Astros have built a team well-suited to employ that hitless wonder of 
Horner (35 HR) and Dale Murphy (33 HR)the baseball world, known as the Astrodome, 
deployed his Astros to near perfection, win­
most  efficiently  over  their 81-game home  and  defensive  gems  like  second  baseman  
schedule. Last season,  Astro  manager  Bill  Virdon  Glenn Hubbard and shortstop Rafael Ramirez. Pitching will be the key. Rick Camp and Larry  
Bradford were tough out of the pen last year,  

but when -your top starters are both 42-year­ning the National League West in a one-game olds (Phil Niekro and Gaylord Perry) and yourplayoff with the Los Angeles Dodgers and No. 3 man Oohn "The Disappearing Act ofthecoming within one inning oftrip to the World Seventies" Montefusco) has won 25 games
Series. · · since 1977, hope runs dry for pennant conten­The Astros figure to be even better in 1981, tion.while the runnerup blue-bloods from Los An­
Cincinnati (89-73) -The Reds' pitching
geles show signs of unravelling with age and staff was cine of the worst in the Nationalquestionable pitching depth. League a year ago. With thoughts of Tom
Houston (93·70) -With or without J.R. 
Seaver ever returning to three-time Cy Young Richard, the Astros' pitching staff is even form evaporating with age and the rest of thedeeper than its league-leading lineup ofa year staff losing Johnny Bench as a full-timeago. Free agent Don Sutton, picked up from catcher, run-sc01;ing will be abundantthe Dodgers, had the league's best ERA last wherever the Reds play balL George Foster,season, while joe Niekro, Nolan Ryan, Vern Dan Driessen, Dave Concepcion, and BenchRuhle and Bob Knepper (acquired from San are not the hitters they once were.Francisco for Enos Cabell) already comprise 
San Francisco (75-85) -The Giants hired
the toughest rotation in the majors. Sambito, a new manager (Frank Robinson) and got ridLaCorte, Smith, and Andujar in the bullpen are ofsome chronic naggers (Knepper and Mon­stifling. There's no power at bat, but Cesar tefusco), but aside from all-star Jack Clark (22Cedeno, Terry Puhl, and Jose Cruz are HR and 82 RBI in 122 games) this Bay Area Astrodome-type players who hit-and-run to 
squad is still the no-hit, no-field, no-startingscratch out runs. The Cabell trade improved pitching unit that flailed through 1980.
the defense by making room for prospect Dan­ny Heep. San Diego (72-89) -To have a last-place 
Los Angeles (92-71) -For nine years, team in 1980 and come back with a worse col­Steve Garvey, Dave Lopes, B.ill Russell, and lection of rising no-names in 1981 means a Ron Cey have ruled the Dodger infield. By the long summer ahead for gentle giant Frank end of 1981, Lopes will be 35 years old, while Howard, the new Padre manager. Dave Win­the rest will reach 33. Except for Garvey, that field and Rollie Fingers left behind a infield dipped off significantly in offensive nightmare for the Padres' only quality player output last year. Rightfielder Reggie Smith is -shortstop Ozzie Smith. 36 and coming off shoulder surgery. The pitching staff lost its ace to the Astros and 
The major league baseball season opens
hasn't received a reliable starter in his place. 
tomorrow In Cincinnatti with the host Reds 
The Dodgers will be fading when September 1 
taking o_n the World Champion Philadelphia 
rolls around. 
Philltes. Today, four membe,.; of The Ob­
Atlanta (81-80) -The'New Wave' Braves, 
server sports staff look at the potential pen­ifyou will, under the tutelage ofManager Bob­
nant races in each ofthe four divisions. Each 
team's 1980 record is listed In parentheses. 
by Cox, made great strides in their youth 
movement in 1980 behind power men Bob 
• 
~~(),.tSc~==~==i=~K=S========~=======================T=ue=s=da=y=,A~p=ri=l7=,=19=8=I===pa=g=e:3II 

4:45-Mr. Belland Has No Hair v. Point Blank & Bookatorel the 5 Guard Ottense 
by The Ohrert•er and Tht· A r.rual.ited Prt r.r 
Buster.. over Death Row by 11 5:30-St Ed's Arson Squad v. SURE 4 Jerks and a Dr~bbler over The Ohbytemes by 2 6:15-Th Plasma11cs v. The Doobies 
Clinton Core's Cagers over SCAAD by 13 
The annual Blue-Gold game, marking the offi. 
Happy Hour over The C·Man & hts Pit F .. s by 15 Bookatora 10 Bookatore 10 
cial end ofspring football practice, is scheduled for Saturday, May 2 at 4:00-Urban Guerillas v. Sir Cumcision & the 4 Skins 
Garito! Express over Five While Boys by 15 I p.m. in Notre Dame Stadium. Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students The Bookstore Basketball Tournament began Judy's Jurors over Sleep, 22·20. (QT) 
4:45-Love boat & the Air Crall Carriers v. Oral Six 
will be admitted at no charge upon presentation of their student ID cards at Gate I 5 on(y. General admission tickets for the public are available In advance at the ACC's Gate 10 box office from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m., Monday through Friday. Prices for these tickets are 52.50 for adults and S I for people 17-and-under. Tickets will also bt: available at the stadium on game day priced at $3.50 and $1.50 respectively. There will be no rest:rved seating. The game is sponsored annually by the Notre Dame Alumni Club of St. joseph Valley and supports the club's scholarNhip fund which currently sustains 16 area students at 
trc University. 
Notre Dame golfer Tom Sacheck defeated Ossie Moore of Indiana State on the second hole ofa sudden death playoff to win the medal in yesterday's Ball State Golf Invitational. Both men finished the 18 holes with one under par scores of 69. Notre Dame finished fifth overall in the tournament. -The Observer 
The trial of Frank Kush, former head football 
coach at Arizona State, resumes today in Phoenix. The 52.2 million Nuit against Kush alleges that the coach harassed his players. Kush was acquitted last month of punching punter Kevin Rutledge during a 197H game. This second phase of Rutledge's suit alleges harassment, a breach of contra<.·t, and negligent supervision of Kush by the univer­
sity. -AP 
Referees for Bookstore Basketball are needed. Any certified basketball official interested in one of these paid positions should contact Lee Manfred at 7820 or 6100. -The Observer 
Classifieds 
yesterday. Every day, throughout the tournament, The Observer will publish a slightly edited schedule of games for that evening, by location, and the previous day's results 
Today'aGamea 
Stepan 1 
4:00-Roemer's Narc Squad v. Fat Notre Dame 
Girls 
4:45 -We'd Rather Be Swimmmg v. Sktd Row Hoover Salesman 5:30-Athletes Out ot Act1on v. Steve Stlpanovich & the Gang thai Couldn't Shoot Straight 6:15-M.D. Chapman& the J. Lennon Fan Club v. Moose Control & the Restless Herd 
Stepan2 4:00-DO & Imperial Brown Eyes v. Plato & the Fantastic Forums 
4:45 -Casilazjersquarski Lid. v. S. Judy & the Elec. Persoalilies 
5:30 -Slaughterhouse 5 v. Snubbed by the NCAA & the NIT 6:15-Nell's RC.M.P.S. v S. Judy & the Masked Mechanics 
Stepan3 
4:00 -Takee Outee & the Weasel Bleeders v. Bricker & the Rain Drops 4:45-J.C. & the Apostles v. The Basket Cases 5:30-69ers v. S. Judy & the Toxic Shockers 6:15-Sheep Shot Saloon S... horns II v. Jack Schmidt & the One-Eyed Hoagies 
Stepan 4 4:00-Vaseline Alley v. Machiavelli's Marvels 
4:45 -Willie Classen & the Unconscious Shooters v. Kelly Tripucka Look·alikes 
5:30 801 St. Louis St. Burnouts v. The Newton Police 
6:15 -Larry & Gary Wolt Where are You? v. Average Whtle Boys Stepan 5 No Games Scheduled Stepan& No Games Scheduled Stepan 7 No Games Scheduled Stepan& No Games Scheduled 
Booketore9 4:00-Moreau Mayhem v. Spots Yardapes 5:30-Backboard Trash v. Fame less Outcasts 6:15-Lex Taloinis v. Bitchy Bev & the Reamers 
Lyona11 4:00-Toxic Shock Syndrome & the 4 Relyables v. Jean Harris & the Sure Fire Diet 4:45-Deep Throats v. Rtco Carty, a Party ... 5:30-Rheme Machine v. CCCP 6:15-Totally Irresponsible v. LudeMan & the Vmtage Rorers-714's 
Lyona12 4:00-The Fruit ot the Loom Guys v. Gimme Hell 4:45-The Bald Heads v. Ahab's Stoosters 
5:30 -The Borachos v. Proud Father & the 4 Uncles 6:15-Defending Meyers v. Capt Tephra & the Volcanic Bombs 
Yuterd•y'e RHulte Step•n 1 The Fighting Koalas over Bad Scene Mach me II by 
2 
John Murphy's Slime Train over Puker & the 4 Chunks by 10 The Pretenders over Luther and the Four Nuts by 5 
Stepan2 Solemn But Deadly over lnternatronal Harvesters by 11 Proverbial Societal Sponges over The Null Set by 16 Dickie's All Stars over The Ftve While Men by 11 
Stepan 3 Dribbling...over Whtty & the Facts ot Life, 23·21. (OT) Five Guard 0 over Slim Whtlman ..by 3 Wall Gamson & the 4 Dips over Thoroughbreds by 
8 
Stap•n4 The Sophtsticados over Excitable Boys ..by 2 Stooges over Squats Squalid. ., 24·22, (OT) Chamsaw & His 4 Beavers over Hawk's Misfits by 12 
Step•n5 No Games Scheduled Stepan& No Games Scheduled Step•n 7 No Games Schedules Step•n 8 No Games Scheduled 
Poontang over Chaney's ORA's by 9 J.J.'s Team Wants... over 5'6" & Over Need Not Apply by 11 
3Lyons 11 Lou's Legacy ove Br~te Ltles by 8 Stsler Polanski's ..over Hurltn' Cowboys by 9 Court Jesters over Doctors II by 7 Five-Footers. . over Sptke Jones by 17 
Lyone12 Last Year's Champs over 3·0 Ghello by 7 Lennon and Chapman Stng ... over ESADMF by 9 Yesterday's Napkins over ROTC Jim & Moments. .by 7 
------~ 
--~---· ··--·-­
iBASKEl"&ALL 

NBA PLAYOFFS Conference Semifinals Beat-of-Seven Eastern Conference 
Sunday's Results Philadelphia 125, Milwaukee 122 (Philadelphia leads. 1·0) Boston 121, Chicago 109 (Boston leads. 1· 0) 
Today'& Games Milwaukee at Philadelphia Chicago at Boston 
Western Conference Houston at San Anton1o (ftrsl game of series) Kansas C1ty at Phoen1x (first game of series) 
All t'l.tSSdli~fl .His nwst tJp U~l't"!IVP.fl tjy 4 45 p m two ct,t~y'i pr1ut 10 tht: ~~'ilr!' 111 wl111'h lht• ut '" ,,,n TIH! Observer ofl1ce will ri!"< l'l!l ci.I!:.Sif,c.>d!. Mund.t\ thrnqq/l fr,,t,,\ 10 t)() .1m In 5 00 J.) rn 1\!1 I"I,Jssdl•'lh ·nus! ht· pit' ll.t•d ''1.111'1 1r1 jl!'l~dll tlf IIHtnlytl lht! rn,tll 

L NOTICES 
EXPERIENCED TYPIST WILL DO TYPING. CALL 287·5162 
OVERSEAS JOBS · Summer-year round. Europe, S.Amer.. Australip, Asta. All fields t $500·$1200 monthly Stghtseemg. Free 1nto. Write IJC, Box 52·1N4, Corona Del Mar, Ca. 92625 
The Jazz Fest tva liS Back-Don't Mtss 11-Aprtl10& 11 
ST LOUIS! ST LOUIS! ST LOUIS! Bus over EASTER Call Gary at 1030 by TUES. (4·7) to reserve or gel mto AP· PROX. COST $45 00 round tr1p. 
INSTANT CASH PAID FOR CLASS RINGS $20·$85 OR MORE WE MAKE HOUSE CALLS 255·2402 
@sT/FOUNDj 
LOST· SMC CLASS RING BLUE STONE. ENGRAVED S S. 83 CALL 284·5329 
LOST SILVER CHAIN WITH MINI· A TURE SPARK PLUG ON WALK FROM PARKING LOT TO MOREAU HALL AT SMC REWARD PLEASE CALL IRENE AT4074ATST MARY'S 
FOUND PARKER BLUE PEN AND PENTEL MECHANICAL PENCIL SET ON GRASS IN FRONT OF O"SHAG CALL MARY ELLEN AT 8903 AFTER 5. 
I lost my room keys 1n an mtox1cated moment I don't know exactly where I lost them. bull belteve 111o be on Gre~n Fteld II you lind a set of keys wtlh 1008 on them please call Mtke 1474 
II anyone found a brown cowboy hat at !he party 1n Flanner last Saturday. please call me REWARD! Larry 1049 
LOST A blue tackel wtlh a whtle lintng tn Stepan on Sunday between 5 30 and 8 00 Return to Mark at305 Sortn or call 8542 
LOST A green notebook conlatmng tm· portanl btology notes Return to Mark at 305 Sorm or call 8542 REWARD G1mme a break 
The Observer (USPS 598 920) IS published Monday through Frtday 
. Kcept dunng exam and vacat1on PfHIOdS The Observer IS publtshed by the students at Notre Dame and Samt Mary s College Subscrtpttons may be purchased for $30 per year 
$15 per semester) by wntmg TheOb­erver, P 0 BoK 0 Notre Dame. In· dtana 46556 
The Obaerver ts a member of the Assoc1ated Press All reproduCtion nghts are reserved 
LOST. BLACK BINDER WITH N.D. SEAL ON COVER CONTAINING MUSIC FOR GLEE CLUB -VERY IMPOR· TANTIII IF FOUND PLEASE CALL KEVIN AT 1022 or 2253 
LOST 5 APR 81 2 FATIGUE SHIRTS, 1 PAIR FATIGUE PANTS FROM BADIN LAUNDRY CALL 8198 no questions asked 
FOUND: A room key, near basketball courts, to room 242, on a short rope cord Call Rachel a17892 
FOR RENT~ 
AVAILABLE NEXT SCHOOL YEAR 2 FIVE BEDROOM HOUSES, NEAR ND, LEASE, DEPOSIT. 234·2626 
AVAILABLE SUMMER AND NEXT SCHOOL YEAR 1 AND 3 BEDROOM APARTMENTS 234·2626 
Houses for rent summer and next school year Gd. cond.. close to campus, turn. C~ll 287·5361 alter 6 
p.m 
~ANTED 
l 
NEED RIDE TO PENN STATE OR ROUTE 80 NEARBY, WKND OF 11 APRIL. WILL SHARE DRIVING. EX· PENCES CALL MARK 1487. 
NEED 3 RIDES TO PITTSBURGH FOR EASTER CALL GREG-3451 OR SUE 284·5329 
NEED RIDE TO WASHINGTON. D.C.· NORTHERN VIRGINIA FOR THE WEEKEND OF APRIL 10·12 CAN LEAVE ON WEDNESDAY WILL SHARE THE USUAL CALL RICH AT 232·0982 
NEED 2 GRADUATION TIX. $$WILL PAY$$ CALLJOHNAT18460R17B7 
I need a r~de to Bello.-Waah. tor Eaa­ter Call Ttm at233·5422. Wtll share un· usual. 
Riders needed to Dayton. OH teavmg Apr~ I 10 Call Don 8270. 
Need rrde to or around mid-Hudson Valley lor Easter. Can leave early. Will share usual. Call Maura at 7852 
wanted Kaplan MCAT Manuals tor Sept MCAT Dan (alter 6 pm) 277·8092 
NEED RIDE to Miami·FI. Lauderdale or almost anywhere else In Florida AFTER GRADUATION. Call John Higgins at 8553 or 1715 and /eave a message. 
Need ride to Phtladelphta tor Easter. Can leave Wed night and return on Tues Call Kathy· 1366 
need ride !rom Albany, N.Y. on Mon.. 4·20. Must know by 4·9, p.m. Call Jean· 41·4842 
RIDE NEEDED TO MILWAUKEE THIS WEEKEND CALL 1141 
Need Rtde to North Jersey· (Mornstown)· tor Easter. Leave Weds. noon. Brian 3578 
NEED RIDE TO WASHINGTON, DC AREA FOR EASTER WILL SHARE USUAL. CAN LEAVE TUESDAY NOON. CALL KARIN AT 2955. 
Need r1de to Muskegon Michtgan. Grand Rapids, or anywhere close tor this weekend. Also need return ride on Apr~l12. Please call Greg a13454. 

76 AMC Pacer. Call Rose 41·4304 
FOR SALE: 1978 WHITE CAMARO WITH RED RACING STRIPE GREAT CONDITION LOADED LOW MILEAGE WILL SELL CHEAP CALL 232·1696 
MUST SELL Tl·59 PROGRAMABLE CALCULATOR WITH PRINTER AND FULL ACCESSORIES $400 OR BEST 
OFFERCALLPAT8937 

I TICKETS 
I need 3 (that's three) graduatton tick· ets. (Yes, folks, tl's starting already.) It you can help me, call Scoop at1772. 
Need EXTRA GRADUATION TIX badly· PLEASE call Mary Pat a18091 
need multiple smc graduation tnc. large tamtly com mg. please call tern (4632) 
NEED 2 GRADUATION TICKETS CALL: Tom 234·1367 

GOODE IS BAD 
GOODE IS BAD. 
GOODE IS BAD. 
Jtm Goode tor UMOC. 
Bless htm Father. tor he has smned. He must have... ugly doesn't come cheap. JIM GOODE tor UMOC 
1o the Blond Bomber 1n 368 Alumni. 
Thanks tor the PERFECT evenmg Saturday! You were PERFECTLY charmmg ad so was I. I had a PER· FECTLY wonderful time! 
Your PERFECT dale 
P.S. Let's celebrate the victory ot the blond rats! 
TWO CENTRAL BE REAL BAD A dazzling lady !rom atop the dome was heard to say,"ll Reagan IS com mg. I'm going back to Lourdes!" 
I have a feeling that if Mary had known that Reagan would be coming tor com­mencement, she wouldn't be proud to have this place called ··Notre Dame." 
PRO BURKE 
PRO BURKE 
HE MAKES THE CHILDREN CRY!!!! 
SAVE THOSE PENNIES FOR UMOC 
PRO, YOU'RE AN UGLY MAN!!! 
WE WANT TO BUY A BOOKSTORE TEAM. CALL US IF YOU'RE TEAM WOULD RATHER DRINK THAN PLAY!!!! CALL 1650 FOR INFORMA· TION 
NEED RIDE TO PHILADELPHIA FOR EASTER!! CAN LEAVE THURSDAY. PLEASE CALL MAUREEN AT 41-5791. 
Go to the Collegiate Jazz Fesltvaf .. Apr~l 10& 11 
MARY JOAN AND ANNE, WILL YOU COME TO OUR ROOM SO WE CAN SMILE AT EACH OTHER? BOOPER AND SON·OF·A·GUN 
The only one tor UMOC Is Richard Slanage Wtlh a face ltke his How does he manage? 
I need a fide to Balto.-Waeh. tor Eaa­ter. Call Tim a1233·5422. Wtll share un· usual. 
BILL 'GRIZZ' NELLIST FOR UMOC. HE LOOKS MUCH BETTER WITHOUT YOUR GLASSES 
ATTENTION CONNECTICUT VALLEY RESIDENTS. Do you need a summer tob? Lookmg tor lransporlalton home for you and your ppossess1ons? Get m· valved in formmg the ConnectiCUt Val· ley Club here at Notre Dame. For lntormalton Call 1620 and ask tor Bill 
TUTORS NEEDED: 1.3rd grader, generaltutor~ng. 
2.H S. sophomore, Geometry. 3.Adul1, bastc Math Contact Volunteer Servtces. 7308. 
INTERNATIONAL STUDENTS MARKETPLACE Today in LaFortune 
ATTENTION! Old Tau Beta P1 Members, there wtll be a general meeltng April 7, at 7:00 '" room 303 ot the old Engr building. 
Summer Restdent Camp Stall needed Mtd·June to early August All posillons open: Counselors. Water-front, Nurse, Cook. Contact: Girl Scouts ot Stngmg Sands, Inc .. 15985 Slate Road 23, Gran· ger.ln. 46530 or call (219) 277·0900 
MIKE BURKE. BETTER KNOWN AS PRO FOR UMOC, IS REALLY UGLY!!! HE MAKES THE CHILDREN CRY AN· OTHER THING HE HAS GOING AGAINST HIM IS THAT HE IS RELATED TO JANE BYRNE!!!! NOW THAT REAL· LY MAKES HIM A UGLY PERSON!!! VOTE PRO FOR UMOC 
HEY LEO, DO YOU WNAT TO PLAY SOFTBALL TODAY?? OH YOU'VE PROBABLY AL· READY GOT A GAME TOGETHER WITH YOUR HOCKEY BUDDIES!!! BEWARE OF LEO DUGGAN, HE'LL STAB YOU IN THE BACK IF HE GETS THE CHANCEl!! 
TANG IS TINGII! 
NO CULTURE IN SOUTH BEND??? WRONG! WEDNESDAY NIGHT 8 P.M LAFORTUNE BALLROOM 
SMC Women's ChOir 
I have pictures of some of your 
·weekend activities." Bribes may be sent to 1722 McCandless. Checks or cash acceptable. 
Monica 
WHAT YOU'VE BEEN WAITING FOR 
TOMORROW NIGHT 8 P M. LAFORTUNE BALLROOM abtogenesis dance collect1ve presents an evening ol dance FREE ADMISSION 
international students marketplace today!!!!!! 
IRC weekend: 
Kokomo, Tuneage, Br1bler. O·Ciub. 
Quarters, Mud, Fireguards, Where's 
the Gutde-On?. broken ztppers, un· 
blused boots. Dunkm Dounuts. one 
more button, I suppose." sp1ders. 
Did you gel some?" 5 am wake-up, 
AR·15 rock and roll, FIFI, and mosltm· 
portanlly, FIDO. 
Jenny. Good luck at tryouts! We hope you make 11!1 Love, 2·N 
Can 9,000 POLICE CARS AND ATTACK DOGS STOP US??? NO WAY!!! CAMPUS VIEW WILL STRIKE AGAIN IN THE NEAR FUTURE I! I 
We are back! Ttp and hts Ptps return 
to Bookstore a14:45 p.m. on the Lyons 
court -Wednesday We are the only 
team to tackle opponents, dellate the 
ball and use Illegal aliens. See Ryan 
Tip Ver Berkmoes, Bruce horno'" 
Kowalski, Dave undtes' Sheploc and 
Maggie redsky" Brett. plus more. 
Q. What do you call the relaltonshtps ot certatn mammals in the Yukon? A Moosekrat love' Ahhh, spr~ng, when a young mammal's fancy turns to.... Thanks to Tim Neely, a mammal ot an­other color. 
Moose Control 
Note to the Mooeee 
Moose Control w1ll make a rare 
public appearance thiS evenmg at or 
be lore 6:15 on the Stepan I basketball 
court. Control will lead The Restless 
Herd m a desperate battle against Mark 
David Chapman and the John Lennon 
Fan Club. Come watch these two mad· 
men and thetr henchmen fight for the 
rtght to continue spreadmg thetr par· 
t1cular breed of insanity across the 
Domtan Way 
Tomghl. see Moose Control slam, tam, bam. ram and cram at Stepan 1. 
Moose Control may handle the orb as he handled the rebellion ot the evil Zero Max, but can he handle the sharpshootmg of a music lover? 
SPECIAL OLYMPICS IS having a thrill sale May 9 at Newman Center. Dona· !tons ot clothing, books, records. ntc nacs and miscellaneous Drop oil tlems at Logan Center or call Ralph Es· sex 289·4831 days, or Ann Lagormar· cmo 232·7068 evenmgs 
WHO'S UGLIER THAN DICK ALLISON? ..... BOB BURGER WHO S UGLIER THAN BOB BUR· GER?. DAVE COLE WHO'S UGLIER THAN DAVE COLE? ...... MIKE DEASEY WHO'S UGLIER THAN MIKE DEASEYL ... DON HALLIGAN WHO'S UGLIER THAN DON HAL· LIGAN?... MARK LANGHANS WHO'S UGLIER THAN MARK LAN· GHANS?. PAUL THOMPSON WHO'S UGLIER THAN PAUL THOMPSON?. DICK ALLISON 
1116 ST PETER UGLY HOUSE OFF CAMPUS!!!! 
PRO BURKE PRO BURKE THE UGLIEST MAN ON CAMPUS SAVE THOSE PENNIES!!!! 
SHERRI, YOU'RE GOING TO MAKE A GREAT HOUSEWIFE. I MEAN THE WAY YOU COOK, CLEAN. AND WHO COULD RESIST!!!! THANKS FOR DINNER IT WAS GREAT!!!! THE MAN 
BILL Grumbles" CAVANAUGH lor UMQC .. because ugly IS more than tust a lace, It's an alltlude 
TOM O'BRIEN. My parents are so exctted-they cant watllo meet youi(Netlher can I) A June wedding would be ntce·lhere II be about 400 !rom my Stde of the lamtly Let me know wh1ch silver paltern you like What a novttl way to propuse-m a form letter Lookmg forw~rd to the walk around the lake 
Love. The future Mrs 0 Brten 
Joan Fttsgtbbons, Thanks tor the best ltme at the formal Saturday II was temlic' Nell Young lanattc 
Kathy We know u II be great' Keep the smtles Forget the ch ch s Ween Jean Marcte Tr1sh Peggy 
Sharon Mary Kelly Ros Ana Karen Mary Mags PS WHIP IT GOOD 
Pally Hulley, the gtrl whose ktsses make guys tall on the lloor. wtll be celebrating her btrlhday all lhts week through Sunday Be sure to stop by 333 McCandless or call 4108 and help Pally 
celebrate!" Happy b·day. Pally' Momca. Amy. Julie. Shari 
Janet, 1 dtdn'l know Ralph Lauren was so powerful Not only dtd 11 attract a cer· 
· tam FIJI. but Mr Polyester Pants and Mr. Stocking Cap as well And ol course we all know what 11 forced Brother Peckham to do I'll be sure to get you some more before your next 
lrtp to Wabash Momca 

-------------------------------------------------·--------------------------~-------------------------------~----~-----­

Tuesday, April7, 1981 -page 12 
It's a wide open field • • • 
A Booksrore Basketball era ended last spring. The awesome combination of Bill Hanzlik, Tom Sud­kamp, and Rusty Lisch played its last Bookstorr game in 
Rob Simari 
the tourney finals. Each ofthe last three years, Sudkamp 
and Lisch appeared behind the ACC in the finals with Bookstore Commissioner 
Hanzlik joining them in 1978 and 1980 (the NCAA 
reduced him to the role ofcoach for one year.) 
Last year, as Defending Chumps, the threesome 
breezed through the tournament. Their closest game have shown surprising agility, and great deal of inside was a 21· 13 thrashing of Classified Nads, as Hanzlik intimidation, during past tourneys. To complement aplayed in street shoes, winter coat, scarf, and Groucho strong front court, the team has a fleet brother tandemmask. 
in the back court. Scott and Curt Bailey led this squad toThe three left behind a set of incomparable records. 
the final 16 last year, as Curt garnered third team All·Lisch is the only man ever to play in five consecutive Bookstore honors.
finals. Sudkamp garnered virtually every award possible 5) W Pace -It has been said by many that Stan Wil­during his five-year stint, proving to be one of cox plays a playground style of basketball. If that is so, Bookstore's all-time greats. Hanzlik may be the only Wilcox could lead his club to success in Bookstore X. 
man to evercoach and play with championship teams in His ball-handling ability, speed, and playground courtCOnSl'ClltiVl' years. 
sense could prove difficult for his opponents to stop. He With the demise of the Chump dynasty, this year's is joined on the team by 6-6, 260-pound. Bob Clasby, tournament may be the most competitive and talent­who should be able to open some holes for Wilcoxladen yet. Any one of20 teams could come out on top of inside. The other members may be questionable, but ifthis year's pack of 384. This intense competition makes W Pace can get the ball to Wilcox, they'll be off to theit very difficult to choose a Top Ten, but after listening races.
to countkss pleas for inclusion, here are my final sclec· 
6) Chipigulaand the Debauchers -This team is a 
tions: difficult one to rate due to two big questions. Will Gil 
1) Thejackson Five-Ifyou had a team that made 
Salinas dominate Bookstore the way he did San Antonioit to the sectional finals last year and included 6-4 foot­high school basketball? Will the rest ofthe team be ablebailers Tim Koegel and Tim Tripp, along with Holy to get him the ball? If the answer to both questions isCross interhall standout Tony Anderson, you'd have a yes, Chipigula and the Debauchers may exploit itstop-flight Bookstore squad. Ifyou added TracyJackson height advantage and get to the finals in much the same
to that team, you'd have the best team in the tourna­Coachjimjohnson has taken on the role ofdefensive co-ordinator way that Bill Laimbeer did with John Paul II and the 
for the 1981 Irish football squad. (Photo by Greg Maurer)
ml·nt. That's just what the Jackson Five may have done. 
Pope-of-the-Month Club did two years ago. · It is still questionable whether or not Jackson will play, 7) T.B. Express-This squad features some of thebut if he does, this team will be unstoppable. Jackson's fastest men on campus in 6-1 Jim Stone, 5-11 Greg Wil­board strength and smooth shot, the speed of high liamson, and 6-3 Dave Duerson. They should fly by most 
. as Bookstore
school basketball all-stater Tripp, and a supporting cast • •
ofthe squads in this tournament. CenterJohn Schader,of Koegel, Anderson and Steve Notarro should lead the 6-7, will try to hold things down inside. This squad hasteam to the title. If.Jackson doesn't play, however, the definite potential to be factor in the final rounds ifit can 
tournament opens
Five will be just one ofa multituuc oftalented squads. 
play well as a team. 
2) Strappamasquon and the CombatWombats­
8) Masters ofDisaster -This is, possibly, the most
Last year's runners-up return, without the services of By SKIP DESJARDIN took 22 shots and hit 13 to pace
talented team in the tournament. Last year the Masters
Pete Holohan, which will cost them some speed. and FRANK LaGROTIA Dribbling...to a 23-21 overtime vic­
fell to the Assassins in the sectional finals. Since then
However, Strappamasquon adds 6-9, 260-pound junior Sports Writers tory over Whity and the Facts ofLife. 
they have added 6-1 speedster Chris Brown to a roster
Phil Pozderac, who was an all-league hoopster while Both Brandt and O'Brien have es­
that already included Mike and Dick Boushka, Karl
prepping in Garfield, Oh. The nucleus of the club is ·The Tenth Annual Bookstore Bas­tablished themselves as strong pos­
Love, and Eric Small. Mike Boushka was an all-state bas­
made up of Bookstore veterans Mike Courey and Greg ketball Tournament got underway sibilities to succeed last year's
ketball player in Kansas. Small is a 6-8 prep star out of
Knafelc. Both can match up with anyone. Knafelc, a yesterday and tournament commis­Hoosier Award winner, Tim Zanni,
Hanover, Pa. Ifthe Masters play defense to go with their
streak shooter, can be awesome, as he was when he hit sioner Rob Simari expressed his as the biggest gunner in the tourna­
offense, they may cause a few disasters for their op­
I I field goals in last year's semifinals. pleasure with the way first-day ac­ment. 
ponents.
3) WEBB's End -During this team's three years of tion progressed. Andy Stein hit 1 0 of 16 shots as competition its members have won the interhall cham· 9) US-Despite losing Iron Man Award winner Bill "It was a beautiful day for Chain Saw...chewed up Hank's Mis­pionship (as Howard Hall) three times, and reached last Myler, US will attempt to reach the Elite Eight, as it did Bookstore Basketball," exclaimed fits, 21-9. Dave "Chain Saw" Poulin year's Bookstore Final Four. This may be the year for last year. US is led by 6-4 Skip Mark, a sharp-shooting Simari after the last of the day's 27 could only connect on one field goal 
them to top this tournament. WEBB's End features last forward who was named second team All-Bookstore contests. "We had great weather and in five attempts and commented af­year's Mr. Bookstore, Bob Keenahan, a lightning quick last year, and 6-5 Bob Fagan. Paul D'Angelis replaces the crowds were excellent for first­terwards: "That hoop is a little smal­6-1 guard out ofRochester, N.Y. Kevin Dix, another 6-1 Myler and should be a superior point guard. US isn't the round competition." ler than a hockey goal, eh?" Three guard has been named to the All-Bookstore team in most talented team in the tourney, but has always After coming up empty on his first players had four points for the 
each ofthe last three years. Under their team concept of epitomized the enthusiaism and hustle associated with nine field goal attempts, Tom losers. Bookstore Basketball.
basketball, everyone handles the ball. The others in· O'Brien connected on eight of his WSND Station Manager, Tom Nes­elude 6-2 Jim Dolezal, 6-5 Andy Hicks, and Cleveland 10 tie) Five Guys Who Came Between Brooke next 14 shots to lead Stooges to a 24-singer, didn't do much for his team's prep star Paul Mazanec, 6-6. Give this team a few breaks Shields and Her Calvin Kleins and Fat Notre Dame 22 overtime win over Squats cause, but he did manage to send and they'll take the tournament. Girls -As is the tradition, the final ranking goes to the Squalid. . .. O'Brien finished the home an over-the-head-b~jlind-the­
4) Assassins -There won't be many clubs in teams with the best names. By co-incidence, this year's game 8-for-23. back-Look-Ma-no-eyes-it-all-comes­Bookstore X able to stand up to the Assassins' front line two best team names both happen to concern tight Another early contender for the from-clean-livin' prayer from 15 of Bob Crable, Dt'an Masz~~k. and Nick Vehr. All three jeans. coveted Hoosier Award, Jim Brandt, feet. However, it was to no avail as 
Nessinger's team, Spike J0nes. .dropped a 21-4 lopsided decision to
Takes on newjob 
the Five Footers. WSND Sports Director Bill ("I played at DeSmet with Steve Stipanovich but never got a fair shot!") Dempsey was 0-for­
Johnson reinforces the defense 
nine for the losers; probably because 
none of his shots came from less By TL\1 LARKIN really worried about it." but I was also saddened that some of "We fed we got five or six out· than 25 feet. Tim Thiry was 8-for-10 .\ports lf'riter Finally on November 24, 1980, the staff was leaving. I am thankful standing defensive lineman for the winners. Thiry hit his last 
Notre Dame offered the head coach for the position and I'm happy that prospects and we're going to try eight shots to put the game far out of 
Thro~h the \-cars Notre Dame position to Moeller High School I'm still here." Faust chose a very them at different positions," com­SpikeJones'...reach. foothall, .unong its many attnbutes, head coach Gerry Faust. This was experienced coach for the job in this ments Johnson. "We also !!,Ot two Goose Mahan connected on nine has been characterized as a the point in Johnson's life where 
Belleville, Ill., native. good linebackers and a couple good field goal attempts to paceJohn Len­defensive power. Taking over con· whatever was to happen was going Before Johnson came to Notre defensive backs. We think we filled non. . .to a nine-point win over trol of the Fighting Irish defense for to happen. Dame in 1977, he worked under Lee our needs and now its only a matter ESADMF. Teammate Mike Mai new head coach Gerry Faust, and Corso at Indiana, as both the ofthem getting used to our system. scored four points to almost equal replacing Joe Yonto, is jim Johnson, defensive coordinator and the "I don't see any of the incoming 
his total point production for the
Spring Football'81
who has coached the Irish defensive linebacker coach, for four years. He freshmen getting a starting job, but I 1980 varsity soccer team. Admitted­secondary for the past four years. was also the defensive coordinator see them helping out as backup. We 
ly, however, one of Mai's prayers, a Whenever a head coach an­at Drake University from 1968 until lost some good players, but we need 20-footer, proved to be the game nounces he is retiring, assistant "I had no idea of my future then," 1972. Before that,Johnson began his to have some people pick up the 
winner. Mai's post-game comments coaches aren't certain of their recalls Johnson, "I met Faust only coaching career as the head coach at slack." were simply: "Did that really go in?" future. In the case of Jim Johnson, once, in an airport in Virginia for five Missouri SouthernJunior College. Along with new coaches come Commissioner Simari emphasized when Dan Devine announced his minutes. Since I didn't know him I Despite losing such fine players as new systems and ideas. The offense that in the event ofan injured player 
retirement _last August. it was the thought he was going to bring his Scott Zettek, John Hankerd, Tom has changed, with Faust's multiple there must be no stoppage in play. 
'arne. own people and Iwould be leaving." Gibbons, and Don Kidd, Johnson is formations, and the defense will be He asked that scorekeepers be par­
"I really didn't think ofmy future," However, things turned out dif· inheriting an excellent defense slightly different also. ticularly conscious of this rule and 
says Johnson. "All I wanted to think ferently for Johnson, quite pleasant­which was responsible for much of "We'll be a little bit more of mul­stressed that,"Even though it sounds 
about was the upcoming season. At ly. Not only was he remaining at Notre Dame's success last season. tiple type defense, but we'll be basic­cruel and heartless, it must be en­
the time I just thought, whatever Notre Dame, he was promoted to Futhermore, the exceptional Iy a 4-3 defense," says Johnson. forced." 
will happen will happen. Of course, defensive coordinator. recruiting job by Faust will assist "There will be a few new wrinkles, "There is absolutely no excuse for 
in the back of your mind you always "I was tickled," says Johnson, "I Johnson in maintaining a strong Irish players criticizing the scorekeepers
SeeJOHNSON, page 9
think about your future, but I never felt I wanted to stay at Notre Dame, defense. for enforcing this rule," Simari said. 
