~~~-~~~-----~ 
Berrigan -page 6
' ' ' 

VOL. XVI, NO. S6 an mdependent student newspaper serving notre dame and saint mary's WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 11, 1981 
By spring or sUmmer 


Reagan promises recovery 

WASHINGTON (AP)-President 
Reagan said yesterday the Republic 
faces "hard times for the next few 
months" but vowed to stand fast on 
his economic program and veto any 
bill that exceeds his budget. 
Reagan, assailed by Senate 
Democrats as a president promoting 
the "Hoover nonsense that 
prosperity is just around the corner" 
said recovery would come by spring 
or summer. And he shrugged off 
those critics as politicians trying to 
blame him for the mess they created. 
The president, in his fifth national­
ly broadcast news conference, 
conceded it Is unlikely that he can 
meet his goal of balancing the 
budget by 1984, however. 
But he said he was determined to keep the government headed toward the elimination of deficit spending, saying it "must stiffen its spine and not throw in the towel." 
On that score, he complained that "federal spending is still rising far too rapidly" despite the li35 billion in budget t·uts approved earlier in the yt·ar by Congress. And he prom}sed to veto any bill that exet·t·ds his spending targets and "ahu~es the limited resources of the taxpayer~." 
On the foreign policy front, Reagan repeated an earlier com­mt·nt that stirred an uproar in Europe, saying he sfill believes it is possible that there might be a bat­tkfield exchange of nuclear wt•apons without triggering global war. 
And ht· insisted that despite reports of disarray an'd discord among his top fordgn and defense advisers. '"There is no bickering or ba<:kstabbing going on.... We are a vt·ry happy group." 
Reagan said he would delay until January the $3 billion in tax in­creases and 52 billion in benefit cuts that he had sought this year, hut he will ask Congress to make them cf. fccrive in late 19H2. Reagan added he still wanted Congress to pass this year the 12-pern·nt cuts in non­defense spending that he proposed in September. 

Noting that his economic program has been in effect for 40 days, Reagan said, "You can't cure 40 years of problems in that short time." But he contended he had set the foundation for recovery in 1982. 
Though some ofReagan's advisers have urged him to raise taxes to make up at least some of the deficit, the president said he will not decide that issue until january. 
The president also signaled there may be some changes ahead in the Medicaid program, contending that levying a charge on those who use the program may discourage "overuse." 
Health and Human Services Secretary Richard S. Schweiker, un­der orders from Budget Director 
David Stockman to cut $9 billion from his 1983 budget, has suggested cuts of S2.9 billion in Medicare and $600 million in Medicaid to the White House. 
Astronauts prepare for tomorrow's flight 
CAPE Canaveral, fla. (AP) · With their second chance countdown moving easily to a Thursday launch target, astronauts joe Englt: and Richard Truly arriveu Tuesday and said, tirmly and hopefully, "this is the real thing." 
Countdown began at 8 a.m. Tues­day, and on launch pad 39A, work was going so well that spokesman Hugh Harris said: "they'n.: making it look easy." 
The undercurrent to the rosy progress and optimistic forecast was the knowledge that everything was 
glass-smooth,  too, until  the  final  
minutes  of  last  Wednes day's  
countdown.  

Technicians found dirty oil and clogged tilters in two of Columbia's hydraulic units and made wrekend repairs to ready tomorrow's second try. 
Upon their arrival, the astronauts made brief remarks to the same knot of reporters and photographers who greeted them last week. They spared no optimism. 
"OK now, we want you to know this is the last time you're going to 
· get to do this," Engle said. "You've had your practice and this is the real thing." Truly added: "Columbia is ready, and joe and I are ready and we're really going to dl! it this time." 
The weather forecast for a 7:30 
a.m. EST liftoff was fine: A few clouds, a modest wind, no rain. 
If events had followed last week's script, the astronauts would have landed Columbia Monday and un­dergone debriefing yesterday. In­stead, they flew T-38 jets to Patrick Air Force Base, ncar the Cape -an 800 mile trip that takes 90 minutes in the 575 mph trainers. Tomorrow, the shuttle will take them once around the world at 17.400 mph in the same amount oftime. 
After 83 cirwits of tht· globe, Engle and Truly are to schedukd to land next Tuesday at 8:40a.m. PST at Edwards Air Force Base in Califor­nia. 
Hesburgh speaks 


Hard 'Work to solve problems 
By MARK BOENNIGHAUSEN News Staff 

The world's problems, as severe as they may seem, can be solved ""if you go in and work," accoruing to University of Notre Dame President Theodore Hesburgh. 
Hesburgh, the first in a speaker 
11.2 percent hike 
Veterans benefits survive ax 
By MIKE FEINSILBER 
Associatell Press 

WASHINGTON (AP) -These may be days of aus­
terity for cities, symphonies and schoolkids, but the 
pint·h hasn't come yet for veterans who look to Wash­
ington for a helping hand. 

Without any ceremony, President Reagan put aside 
hs deficit-fighting efforts a few weeks ago to sign a bill 
that added nearly $1 billion to federal outlays. He issued 
a brief statement of satisfaction and congratulations, 
then went back to work. The event caused barely a 
ripple. 

That's because the extra spending involved veterans and, even in aus­terity, money for veterans is pretty WEDNESDAYJIII£ much inviolable. Abraham Lincoln 
-FOCUS
laid down the premise that still vivors.• 

"We cannot lose sight of the nation's debt to those brave veterans who have sacrificed their life and limb for the defense oftheir country," his statement said. 
Even though Reagan did suggest modest reductions in some areas, the overall budget of the Veterans Ad­ministration keeps growing. It has doubled since 1972 and now totals over $23 billion. 
A day of recalculation may be coming; costs are soaring as an aging population of veterans makes more demands. The 12.4 million veterans of World War II now average 61 years ofage. In four years most will be eligible for free VA medical care -a demand that could force reconsideration ofwhat is offered veterans. 
In the meantime, the VA sees its constituency as a growing one: 30 million veterans, 59 million family members of living veterans, nearly 4 million survivors ofdeceased veterans. The YAcalculates that 41 percent of the people in America are "potential recipients of veterans benefits provided by the federal government." 
The American Legion which, along with other series sp~nsorcd by the Cavanaugh Academic Commission, led an infor­mal question and answer session last night in Cavanuagh's study lounge. 
Answering a wide variety ofques­tions asked by the gathering of ap­
proximately  100  students,  
Hesburgh's  main  point  was  that  
there  is  hope  that  the  problems  

facing the world today can be solved."Nothing is really hopeless is you go in there and work." he said. 
When asked what he saw as a crisis that the world will face soon, Hesburgh cited the problem of migration. People looking for a bet­ter life are flooding to the rich in­dustrialized countries, he stated, and only when the problems of world hunger and health care are addressed will the problem be resolved. 

Hesburgh also mentioned the pos­siblity of nuclear war as a major crisis facing the world. A solution, he suggested, is to get the Russians and Americans to sit down in a room and "talk turkey." The threat of nuclear war is so great that unless something is done to rectify the problem, avoidance of nuclear war is slim, Hesburgh noted. 
In a reply to a question about the political situation in South Africa, Hesburgh stated that the situation is a "microcosm of the world," due to an imbalance in the distribution of about South Africa, Hesburgh expressed disatisfaction in the amount of money spent on the poor of the world. Stating that if five per­cent ofthe 500 billion spent on arms this year is channeled into programs to help the poor of the world, lies­burgh said much of the world's problems could be solved. 
On the issue of capital punish­ment, Hesburgh is, "on the balance," against the issue. He noted that countries that didn't have the death penalty have less ofa crime problem than countries that practice it. Abet· ter way to solve the crime problem would be through control of hand­guns he stated. 
On questions concerning tht• Uni­versity and his job as Pl'esident, Hesburgh said that he felt Notre Dame's undergraduate program is as "good as anyone's" and that he would be following the same policies he has beeri for the next five years. He also expressed hopt• that Notre Dame's graduate program will be expanded and improved. 
Hesburgh stated that he felt there was no conflict in all the activites he is involved in (the Rockfeller Foundation and several government committees) and his priesthood. He also noted that he would never run for office. 
Throughout the session Hesburgh gave anecdotes of his travels in the 

governs. He said the government had an obligation "to care for him who shall have borne the battle, and for his widow and his orphan." As a resul!, while asking other agencies to take a new  veterans' groups, lobbies mightily to maintain and in­crease these programs, foresees a potential tightening up. Says Robert Lynch, the Legion's director ofrehabilita­ wealth among the caucasian race and the rest of the population. Caucasians, Hesburgh noted, con­trol 80 percent of the world's  world. One item concerned his ability to help get 1.4 million tons of food delivered to a starving area At the end of the lecture Hes­ 
cut of 12 percent in their budgets, Reagan proposed and  tion: "the American Legion believes this nation has  resources, while the rest ofthe races  burgh stated that out ofall his varied  
signed an I 1.2 percent increase in disability payments for 2.3 million service-disabled veterans and their sur- See FOCUS page 4  control only 20 percent. While answering the  question  endevors Notre Dame is still num· ber one on his list.  



~ ---~-~~-------­




ews Briefs 

lh !be ( JfJsen•er and The Associated Press 
Inflation at the wholesale level bumped upward at a moderate 6.8 percent annual rate in October, with auto prices speeding ahead but food and energy prices falling, the government reported yesterday. October's 0.6 percent increase in the Producer Price Index for finished goods was the biggest since April's 0.8 per­cent. But it was still far short ofthe big monthly increases common in the middle of last year and in the first three months of 1981. Economists saw the new report as more good news on inflation in general. Private analyst Donald Ratajczak summed it up with "the comment, "the numbers are all good except for the autos." -AP 
World War I flying aces from both the Allied and German sides have reunited in Paris for a Veteran's Day ceremony today un­der the Arc de Triomphe. Their eyes have dimmed, their stride has slowed and their hair has thinned. But their memories remain strong as they recall flying into battle in the days when the life expectancy for a pilot on the Western Front was as little as 21 days in 191 7. They will be given prominent places under the arch to view the traditional wreath-laying on the grave ofthe unknown soldier and fanning ofthe eternal flame. Only 40 of the world's surviving 85 aces were well enough to accept President Francois Mitterrand's invitation to at­
tend celebrations marking the 63rd anniversary ofthe armistice that ended "the war to end all wars" on the 11th hour ofthe 11th day of the 11th month. The Paris reunion is undoubtedly the last one of its size for the men who earned the title ace by shooting down at least five enemy planes in the first air war. -AP 
Anita Bryant, thanking God for leading her to Selma,Aiabama when she fled the national limelight, received a standing ovation from her neighbors in her first public performance in more than a year. A sellout crowd of950 saw the former singing crusader in a benefit performance last night at Selma High School. The SIO tickets aided Protect America's Children, an advocacy and research group which Miss Bryant helped found to get religious agencies involved with children. Miss Bryant, 41, came to Selma af­ter a divorce from Bob Green, her husband-manager of 20 years. Referring to one ofher hit songs, she told the audience, "God led me from Oklahoma to Selma, which is 'My Uttle Corner ofthe World."' 
-AP 
Seth Taft, grandson of President William Howard Taft, an­nounced in Cleveland yesterday he's seeking Ohio's Republican nomination for governor in 1982. The lawyer and former president of the Cuyahoga County board of commissioners said he wants to carry on efforts of the administration of Republican Gov. james Rhodes, who is prevented by law from seeking a third consecutive term. Ohio, with the second highest unemployment rate in the na­tion, will suffer from reduced federal aid and must attract high­technology jobs through "carefully selected" inducements, Taft said. "I am a problem solver," said Taft, 58. "Ohio has tough problems." -AP 
The Indiana Toll Roadcelebratesits25thanniver­sary next week with commercial traffic up and passenger traffic down, but a revenue forecast that looks fairly bright. Donald Moreau, the toll road's general manager, says the drop in passenger traffic is from a "stay at home" attitude because ofthe high cost oftravel. But commercial traffic, which provides 62 percent of the toll road's revenue, is experiencing the biggest month in the last four years," he said. Commercial traffic is up, he said, because a new law allows longer and heavier trucks to use the state's highways, and because truckers may feel they have less chance ofseeing a state trooper than on other roads. -AP 
The plaintiffs attorney says he rejected Richard Lamm as a juror in a personal injury case because of Lamm's job. "Being the governor of Colorado, he would influence everyone on the jury ­regardless ofwhat his position was," lawyer Tom Sullivan said Mon­day. "What he thinks, everyone thinks." During jury selection in Denver District Court, Lamm was asked what kind of work he did and for whom. ''I'm a lawyer and I work for the state ofColorado," he said. Asked if he had ever been sued, Lamm replied, "I get sued proba t bly 10 times a day." As governor, lie is often named a defendanl in lawsuits against the state. He will be on call for jury duty all this week. -AP 
When Ahna Bedrosian of Columbus, Ohio, told 
her husband a deer was in the living room, he didn't believe it. "I told 
her, 'In the city? Come on. It's not Christmas,"' said Bela Kovach. Ms. 
Bedrosian was right. A 175-pound doe had broken in, and a game 
officer had to persuade it to leave. Kovach said his wife noticed a 
broken front window Monday when she got home from work. She 
called him at work, suspecting a burglary, and he advised her to 
check the house while he waited t . Next, he heard a loud and frightened scream. "First, I thought someone was attacking her. Then I heard her scream, 'It's a deer! It's a deer,"' Kovach said. He called police on another telephone and said,"My wife thinks there's a big deer in our house. It's probably a big dog, but you better go anyway." A state game officer arrived, calmed the 3-year-old deer, and dropped a rope around its neck. It was released later, unharmed, in a wooded area. -AP 
Mostly sunny and cool today. High in the upper 40s and low 50s. Fair and not so cold tonight. Low in the low and mid 30s. Tomorrow partly sunny and a little milder. High in the low and mid 50s. -AP 

Wednesday, November 11, 1981 -page 2 
Only You Can Make It Work 
For four years, I've been hearing how apathetic stu­
dents are and, to tell you the truth, I'm getting tired ofit. 
It was not until last week, after an interview with Eileen 
Murphy, Saint Mary's Student Body President, that I 
realized just how important student input (or lack ofit) 
really is. 
In the beginning of her term, Murphy had several 
goals she wanted to achieve for the good ofthe student 
body. Contrary to popular belief, her plans included 
more than screw-your-roommate dances and ice cream 
socials. 
Murphy's number one goal for the 1981-82 academic 
year was to increase the amount of student space by 
cot nverting the old library into a Student Union. Second­ly, Murphy had hoped to bring more Notre Dame and Off-Campus students into the Saint Mary's community by increasing the number of social activities at SMC. Murphy states that "by increasing activities on campus you can foster a greater community spirit." · 
To bring more students on campus, Murphy thought to re-evaluate the "perennial" parietals problem. An Ad Hoc Committee has been working on a proposal to present the Saint Mary's Board of Regents since last year. The proposal is still in its developing stages, however the Committee's main goal is to increase male 
visitation hours, specifically ministration what they want on Sundays and on one or 
done about the problem of 

two week nights. 
social space," MurphyRecently a survey was dis' 

stated.

tributed to Saint Mary's stu­dents by the Ad Hoc 
Perhaps with the burden Committee to see how they 
ofschoolwork, students will felt about the present parie­
not be able to make this tals system. The few surveys meeting tonight. But that that were returned indi­does not mean that nothing 
cated that there was a "fair 
else can be done. There are amount of discontent 
plenty of opportunities forconcerning parietal hours." 

students to voice theirIt is evident that Murphy's 

opinions. Only those stu­

goals have not changed much since the beginning of dents who get involved have her term. Yet, she has the power to change things. realized that it takes more Those who just sit back have 
than a Student Body Presi­dent to make those goals work. 
The whole community must work together to change the things on campus that make them unhappy. When students complained about "nothing to do on campus," Murphy presented more social activities to them. Then students did not attend these events so Murphy further investigated the problem. She found that what the students need is one central location on campus where they can look for activities. "Campus­wide activities belong in one building =a Student Uni­
on.'' 
Murphy would like to see the Student Union as "a place midway between the dorm and the classroom. Bur it should also be a place extended to where groups and organizations can meet." "But," she continued, " What the students don't know is that the old library will not be automatically turned over to us. The students have to lobby for the space and support their Student Government. Without support, it just won't work." 
Murphy would like to see the Student Union as an information and activities center consolidated imo one 
r-The_Ohs.eryer_ Design Editor...................... Maura .\1urphy Design Assistants....................... Tim N~ely Typesetter .......................................... Run)o~ News Editor ................... Mary Agn~s Carey Cop_.,. Editor .........Stt:ve Navarre,Maurccn O'Toole Features Layout .................... ~reg Swiercz ~ports Copy Editor............. Skip D~sjardin Typist ...................................... )~anin~ Hynes Systems Control ................... Bruce Oakley ND Day Editor......................... David Grot<· Ad Design ................................................. Fran Photographer ......................... Tom O'Brien Guest Appearances ............. Ertelt and her drawers, )eb onceJeb twice  
The Observer (USPS 598 920) IS published Monday through Fnday and on home football Saturdays. except dunng exam and vacation penods The Observer IS published by the students of Notre Dame and Sa1nt Mary s Col~ lege Subscnpt1ons may be purchased for $25 per year ($t5 per semester) by wnt1ng The Observer P 0 Box 0. Notre Dame.lndtana46556 The Observer IS a member of The Associated Press All reproduction nghts are reserved Second class postage patd at Notre Dame. lnd1ana 46556  

-------------------~--------------------~ 
A woman's place is in the field ... 
... or in the classroom, or behind a desk, or in any 
number of exciting, challenging careers in the 
Marine Corps. 

Today's opportunities are greater than ever for a Woman Marine Officer. A wom~ an's work is never dull in the Corps. 
The Few. The Proud. The Marines. 
Marine recruiters will be a1i11 1ihe LaFortune S1iu4en1i Center, 1 Xov. 11·13 from 9 am ·4 pm 
~------------------------~-------------­
:; 


building and geared towards students. 
The Administration assured Student Government that no major decisions would be made concerning the space allotment of the old library before the College Committee met. The College Committee consists of students, administrators and faculty who investigate facilities needed in the Student Union. Murphy stated, "Unfortunately, that's not the truth. I'm afraid we're wasting our time in meetings and committees to discuss the problems only to find out that the Administration has largely decided the fate ofthe building." 
Tonight at·6 p.m. in LeMans Hall lobby, students will be able to present their views to the College Committee about the facilities they feel are needed in the Student Union. "This is where students can come and show their support. This is their opportunity to tell the Ad-
absolutely rio right to com­plain. 

Observer notes____----, 
The Observer needs day editors Tuesday and Thursday afternoons in its Saint Mary's office. In­terested Saint Mary's students should contact SMC Ex­ecutive Editor Mary Agnes Carey at 41-5127 or SMC News Editor Cathy Domanico at 277-2244 for more information. 
The Observer is always looking for new reporters. If 
you like to write and can devote a few hours each 
week to reporting, vistit our office on LaFortune's 
third floor. Talk to one ofour news editors. They'll be 
happy to help you get started. 
The Observer is your newspaper. Comments and 
constructive criticism are appreciated. Stop by our 
LaFortune office, give us a call drop a line to The Ob­
server, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 


The Observer 
Starting January 

ALto offer Mideast concentrate 
By ROBERT MAROVICH 
News Staff 
The College of Arts and Letters has announced that a concentration in Middlc:-Eastern and Mediter­ranean affairs will be offered by the 
lkpanment  of  Sociology  and  
Anthropology  beginning  next  
semester.  

According to Professor Kenneth Moore, chid organizer for the four­course concentration, the program 
will combine the experience and resources ofstaff members involved in courses in Mediterranean culture, language, politics and history. To complete the concentration, Moore said the student will need to take one course in a Mediterranean lan­guage such as Spanish or Italian and three courses m Mid­Eastern/Mediterranean culture. "It's really important that students get the best balance ofknowledge ofthe Middle-Eastern culture that they can get." 
Moore explained that the growing intervention of the United States in Mediterranean and Middle-Eastern 

Wills discusses~ art of U.S. Enlightenment 
ByJIM PLAMONDON 
StaffReporter 
Newspaper columnist Gary Wills, sponsored by thc Amcrican Studit·s lkpartment, dclivercd a two part lecture and slide show Monday and yesterday in the Annenberg Auditorium on the artistic portrayals of thc two most popular figures in American Enlightenment, George Washington and Benjamin franklin. 
Wills stressed the importance of art in a particular culture by quoting Andre Moreau, who stated, "a pt·ople will be judged by the statues it makes." 
"George Washington," Wills said, "embodied what the Revolution was about," and symbolized the nation "much more ... than even the American flag." 
Artists such as William Rush and Antonio Canova compared and con­trasted Washington with Napoleon. The artists depicted Napoleon as a classical hero, dressed with formal regalia, but portrayed Washington as a common man, plainly clothed and without medals. Wills stated. 
Artists such as Jacques-Louis David and John Trumbull depicted Washington as the common man in the army, "a soldier called to duty" as opposed to Napoleon, who tradi­tionally stood alone at the head of his army in a Romantic pose. 
Wills also covered the art surrounding Benjamin franklin, who Wills described as "the head and the heart of the American Revolution." 
franklin often appeared with Washington in paintings because,. as Wills explained, "if you wanted to know what America was about, you would look at these two." Washing­ton and franklin were "virtue and science embraced." 
Artists such as Jean-Honore Frag­gonard,John Copley andjohn Trum• bell often expressed the genius of franklin through their art works. They showed Franklin taming light­ning with his invention of the light­ningrod. 
Wills, a graduate of)ohns Hopkins University, is now a professor at Northwestern University. 

Cogimo~g aUt egigtt 
18461 St. Rd. 23 South Bend, call for appointment 2 77-18 7 


NOVEMBER SPECIAL!* 

-shampoo, conditioner, cut style Guys-$7.00 (reg. 13.00) Girls-$10.00 (reg. 18.00)~ 
*with Co-Designers only 

SENIORS ASSOCIATE WITH us 
Consider an Alternative: THE HOLY CROSS ASSOCIATES 
The HCAs is a 1-2 year postgraduate experience stressing: 
• Servrce to others ecommunal Ufestyle 
.Simple living 


Placements available in the United States: santiago, Chile: and Nairobi. Kenya. 


DI.A.DLI.I ro• OYiaiUI .A.IILIC.A..!S:.OYI.II.ll 

For information. contact Mary Ann Roemer at Volunteer Services. 1.5 Lafortune (7308) 






LV CROSS 
ASSOCIATES~ 
Domestic Deadline -Feb. 12 

affairs has created a need for the stu­dent ofany major to understand the cultures in these areas. "It makes the diploma much more valuable if the student is trying to get into graduate or law school. The Middle-East is a critical area of the world today; a knowledge of that culture makes a student that much more interest­ing." 
Moore also explained that a graduate seeking employment·in the Mediterranean area will be more valuable to an employer if the stu­dent knows the culture of the area. 
The idea of having a concentra­tion in Middle-Eastern/Mediterranean culture was conceived during the International Meeting on Jerusalem that fr.Theodore Hesburgh con­ducted on campus approximately a year ago. Fr. Hesburgh invited Middle-East experts to discuss cur­rent problems in Jenisalcm with staff members teaching courses on the Middle-East. Moore, a Professor ofAnthropology and author ofThose 
ofthe Str t eel: The Catholicjews of Mal/orca, had often traveled to the Mediterranean area to study the culture. Moore, along with other staff members in the Department of Sociology and Anthropology, con­cluded that they had all the 
resources and experience needed to create a concentration in Middle­East/Mediterranean study. Moore commented that the "Middle-East" and"Mediterranean"areas are essen­tially one and the same. 
In a meeting Saturday with Dean Robert Burns, Moore was told ro begin final processing of the program quickly. 
Moore commented that, upon successful completion of the con­centration, the student's diploma would indicate the title of the stu­dent's major and the title of "Mid­Eastern/Mediterranean concentration" next to it. 
BARCLAY'S FRESH APPROACH: 


Wednesday, November 11, 1981 -page 3 
Gary• Wills speaks on "Benjamin Franklin's Image in the En­lightenment" yesterday aftenwon in Annenberg Auditorium. (photo by Tom O'Brien) 

~The Observer is looking ~ for design assistants 
• Late night work e Paid positions (if you qualify) 

~ Call Mike 866~ 



The Observer Wednesday, November 11, 1981-page 4 

spirit. Also pictured ( l. to r.) are Mike Martin, Dave Loughlin, andjohn Green. (photo by Tom O'Brien) 


Dr. james Muller, a Boston car­diologist and one of the founders of the International Physicians for the prevention of Nuclear War, will speak at the University of Notre Dame's Memorial Library Auditorium today, at 4:00 p.m. Mul­ler, a 1965 Notre Dame graduate, will be introduced by Fr. Theodore 
M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., University President. 
Muller's lecture, sponsored by Notre Dame's College of Science and the Center for Experiential Learning, will be a principle com­ponent of Notre Dame's participa­tion in today's Convocation on the 
continuedfrom page 1 
provided a well-founded and com­prehensive program of benefits for veterans, their dependents and sur­vivors. The main problem in these days of fiscal austerity is the provi­sion of adequate funding to keep all veterans programs functioning in the manner intended by Congress. The American Legion believes that in the nation's priorities, veterans, representing the men and women 

MAKE YOURSELF A CINNAMONY CUP OF CAFE VIENNA. 






Dr. Muller to speak 
on nuclear problem 
Threat ofNuclear War. 
The convocation is sponsored by the Union of Concerned Scientists, and 108 campuses in 36 states, as well as the Universities of Toronto 
and Rome, will participate. Its purpose is to bring together the faculty and students on each campus for an educational exposition on the possibility of nuclear war and for an 
explanation of options for reducing the risk of war. Notre Dame's obser­vance of the occasion will begin with a mass today at 12:15 p.m. in Sacred Heart Church. Fr. Hesburgh will be the main celebrant. 
• • • Focus 
who have defended the nation in time of war and active hostilities, should rank second only to national defense." 
What the government offers them is enough to fill a book, and in fact does: "Federal Benefits for Veterans and Dependents," spelling out the fine-print details, is a 78-page pamphlet available for $2.50 from· the Superintendent of Documents, Government Printing Office, Wash­ington, D.C. 20402. 
Sociology 

to offer new course 
The Department of Sociology has announced it will offer a course in the Sociology of Popular Music for the first time next semester. The course will be taught by second-year doctoral student, john Bridges. 
Bridges, who began his academic career as a music theory and coposi­tion major, has experience as a recording artist with Columbia Records, spending five years on the road as a member ofa Las Vegas-style show group, playing a variety of in­struments (including keyboards, drums, trumpet/flugelhorn and electric bass). His academic preparation in the area came during his tenure in the M.A. program at Bowling Green State University. 

The course, which will attempt to .analyze popular music as an institu­tion utilizing sociological theories and concepts, will focus on popular music from 1950-1980 -the years of the development of American rock music and its British influences. Popular music, according to Bridges, cannot be understood apart from the American capitalistic sys­tem which produces it, thus the course will also analyze the statuses and roles found in the music in­
dustry. 
CINEMA CITY •s a complete ser111ce lor cmema collectors dealing w1!h or1g1nal mO\ne posters. photos and related collect· abies Ong•nal mot•on ptcture graphiCS are sought by collectors throughout the world Ongtnal him posters are a umque remem­brance of a memorable 111m and because ol the.r lim1ted number may become !me 1nvestment p1ece~ Many 1tems w1th their d1sllnci1Ve artwork make anract1ve wall decorat1ons that are sure to be The top1c of 
diSCUSSIOn amonq mov1e lovers 
All matenal IS ong1nal -we deal wrth no copies. reprrnts or any1h•ng of a bogus nature Our latest catalogue hsts thousands ol tlems that tnclude posters. photos lover 
30.000 '"stockI lobby cards. pressbooks and other authentiC !1Im memorabtlia you re looking tor a partiCUlar •tem that IS not in our catalogue we w1lltry to locate 11 for you To recetve our latest catalogue. sendS1 00 (refundable Wtlh f1rst order) to 
( l~r-MA Ulf~ 
P.O. Box 1012. Dept. 300 Muskegon. M1chigan 49441 



Wednesday, November 11, 1981 -page 5






Editorials 
How does he appall me? 
How does he appall me? Let me count the ways. (Or begin to. This column is not long enough for a total accounting). 
The president appeals to the patriotism of reporters to censor massive evidence of internal division in his administration. He says thast foreign governments will get the idea we don't know what we arc doing un­less we agree to report less than we know. This is a dangerous course. President Nixon's aides called it un­patriotic to report domestic criticism of the Vietnam War. Simply to ad­vert to reality became, in their eyes, a kind of treason. That was bad enough. But now, with no war on, President Reagan ask that self­censorship be accepted to impress other nations. 
He is fooling himself, and trying to fool us. Other nations have plenty of Washington sources for reports of this kind. Most of our efforts at cen­sorship fool no one but ourselves. The Viet Cong and the Russians ­and, certainly, the Cambodians ­knew about our "secret bombing" on Cambodia. It was, mainly, a 
secret to the American people, and to 
their Congress. 
Besides, what other countries thing of us depends, in large part on our willingness to have a free press. Curbing that to gain reputation is a self-defeating exercise. Our strength 
does  not  lie  in  repression  but  in  
freedom.  
Besides,  who  was  the  principal  

source of talk about inner division in this instance? It as Alexander Haig, telling journalist on the record that there has been guerilla warfare in the White House for months on end. If Reagan could ever be held to the logic of his own words, he was call­ing his secretary of state unpatriotic. 
Just to make sure that his leak was 

presidential phone call will work the printed Secretary Haig told the state 
same magic on people not craven 

Garry Wills

Department to confirm the informa-· 
where votes. are concerned. tion he gave to Jack Anderson. Is the 
The president thus confirmed the press supposed to censor the State 
talk of crisis, while not only denying Department? Refuse to print what Outrider
there was a crisis but denouncing our own government says, because it 
anyone who adverted to the act that will make our own government look 
the crisis exists-beginning with his when the president and his top ad­bad? The press is not only enjoined own secretary of state, who says visors talk so often of war in a far from saying the emperor has no 
there is not only a crisis in the White more drastic sense? How does this clothes. It is told to set up a tailor 
House, but a war. charming bungler appall me? The shop, so it can keep clothing the em­
And why, a tier all, should Haig question, rather, is: How does he peror when he comes out, every day, 
hesitate to speak of personality wars not? 
naked. · · 

Then, to top it all, the president,=============================! 
called Jack Anderson himself, in­
directly confirming Haig's com­
plaint. The president wanted to know 

Former New Mexico 
Anderson's source(other than Haig, of course) for reports of inner strite. Only a fool would thing he could get 

judge shows courage
it that way. Reagan must be so eup­horic at his ability to charm votes out of politicians that he thinkd a 
Add the name of Judge Gene 



P.O. BoxQ 
Reader disputes Jackman article 
Dear Editor: 
The article by Tom Jackman in the would not endorse Coleman until the reports, "the Republicans made Nov. 6, 1981 edition of The Ob­tina! week of the campaign because moderate gains." So while the shiti server not only contains gross errors in the executive branch was toward
of his doubts conerning Coleman's 
conservatism.
and omissions of facts pertinent to the Democrats, the shift in the 
the election, it also misinterprets the Second, the campaign. Both can­legislative branch was toward the 
results. didates ran on similar platforms -Republicans. This clearly does not 
First, the candidates. Governor­platforms which basically supported represent ''a countertrend.·' 
elect Chuck Robb, although he does ·'Reaganomics.'' Hence, the voters Finally, the results do not show 
have some liberal views, is by no had no real idealogial choice to make any strength in the Democratic Party: 
means a liberal. The Republican's here. Further, Robb came quite close Robb had to abandon, for the most 
main strategy, the connection of to losing the support of liberals with­part, the liberal traditions of the 
Robb to Johnson's liberalism, ob­in the Democratic Party beause of the Democrats in order to win the elec­
viously failed, for if Virginians saw conservative views he projected in tion. Such an abandonment not only 
such liberalism in Robb he would the campaign. Only Robb's per­shows the popularity of the con­
have been defeated. sonality and charisma prevented the servative view, it also states the 
Similarly, Marshall Coleman is alienation of the liberals. By Tom weakness now inherent in the not "staunchly conservative." His Jackman's standards, then, does Democratic Party. This demonstra­occasional leans toward the left have Robb have personal or political tion of weakness is the true result of 
popularity?
created grave doubts among the Virginia elections. Republicans as to his conservatism. Third, the article ignored the elec­John Andrew Wa/ker,JI/ Former Governor Mills Godwin, a Alumni Hall
tions of the House of Delegates. In those races, the New York Times Stafford, VAle~~li~ conser~~tivc ._i.!l___yirginia, 
Franchini of Albuquerque, New Mexico, to the list of America's in­tt'lligent and conscientious jurists. Or rather former Judge Franchin. The other day he resigned from the bench as a trial judge rather than send a first oftender to prison. 
The criminal, an honorably dis­charged Vietnam veteran and a job­holder, had been convicted of aggravated assault with a deadly weapon. A jury found him guilty of pulling a gun in a dispute at a traffic light. 
Under a mandatory sentencing law, Franchini had no choice but to imprison the man for a year. Out of conscience, he resigned. He ex­plained that putting this particular of­fender into the hellish New Mexico state prison -the scene of a blood­bath riot in 1980 -would be supporting "insanity and injustice." 
The same day that Franchini -"not a wild-eyed liberal judge," he said of himself -was giving American justice this bright moment, President Reagan was maintaining the darkness. He was in New Orleans winning cheers from police chiefs for pledging to support mandatory sentencing laws. Such support is part of Reagan's philosophy that was also applauded by the chiefs:·· ... Men are basically good but prone to evil; and society has a right to be protected from them." 
The protection argument is at the heart of any discussion of prisons and criminal justice. Packing off people to prisons and jails, which we are doing now at record rates, creates on­ly the illuson of protection. Everyday about 360 people are released from America's penal institutions. That's some 131 ,000 a year. 
I can't recall ever seeing these figures mentioned when public fears are whipped up by politicians making their it's-time-the-law-abiding-are­protected-from-criminals speeches. 
If, as the Bureau of Prisons states, between 95 and 98 percent of our criminals are eventually going to be back among us at some date, the protection factor is low. 
The call to build more prisons ­the most recent federal task force asked $2 billion for the job-means that instead of 360 people leaving our overcrowded and often inhumane prisons everyday the number will in­crease to 500 or 600 a day. Wha~ 
Colman McCarthy 
then? 
James Q. Wilson, an analyst of 
crime and punishment and who 
believes that"we need more prison 
capacity," avoids this question. He 
wrote in the Washington Post recent­
ly that he knows of "no systematic 
evidence" that people are worse off 
for prison: '' It may well be that there 
are some offenders who commit 
more crimes after having gone to 
prison and some who commit fewer, 
but we have few studies that examine these fine distinctions." 
While Wilson, apparently a patient man, waits for the study in­dustry to ponder the tine distinctions, are we supposed to believe that prisoners leaving violence-filled cages after five or ten years arc ready to go from surviving the laws of the jungle to obeying the laws ofsociety? 
Alvin Bronste.in of the Prison Project of the American Civil Liberties Union, and one who I find a surer guide in penology than Wil­son, states that "we know that pris­ners get worse. Recidivism escalates with longer sentences. Once you go beyond six-month sentences, recidivism increases and the nature of the crimes increased in severity." Bronstein adds that high incarcera­tion rates have not relationship with lowering crime rates. 
Judges like Franchini and civil libertarians like Bronstein enrage those who think that criminals get too much help while the victims are ignored. But it is the victims that en­lightened judges and penologists are caring about. By imposing other forms of punishment on certain criminals -restitution, fines, com­munity service -they arc arguing that there will be fewer victims tomorrow because criminals today were punished humanely. 

Judges know that only a small per­centage of lawbreakers need to be is­olated from society. Judge Franchini was saying only tliat. He was a har­dling jurist: hard on the prevailing myths and slogans about punish­ment, and, in the end, hard on the public for making us reflect about his act of conscience. 

Editorial Board 


~et==== 
Editor·in·Cbief..............................John McGrath 
THE INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER 
Executive News Editor......................... Kelli Flint Sports Editor ..........•................•..Michael Ortman
SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
News Editor ..................................Tim VerceUotti Editorials Editor.......................Anthony Walton FOUNDED NOV. 3, 1966 NewsEditor ............................. David Rickabaugh 
PbotoEditor........................................)ohn Macor 
Tbe Obserr•er is an independent Editorials represent the opinion of a SMC Executive Editor........... Mary Agnes Carey 
Features Editor .........................Gregory Swlercz 
newspaper published by the students of the majority of the Editorial Board. Commen· SMC News Editor...................... Cathy Domanico 
University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint taries, opinions and lc:tters are the views of :\<lary's College. It does not necessarily their authors. Column space is available to 

Department Managers 
reflect the policies of the administration of all members ofthe community, and the free either institution. The news i• reported as expression of varying opinions on campus, B~iness M.'!nager ..................... , ... Rich Coppola accurat~y_a~a~ objectively as possible:._ _through lc:tters~ e~.ouraged. Production Manager ...................Michael Monk Controller...................................... : ...... )oe Mulfiur 
Circulation Manager .............Tom Maclennan Advertising Manager .......................Chrls Owen
P.O.BOX Q,NOTRE DAME, IN 46556 (219)283-8661 






Features 
LaFortune: Is it enough? 
L
ocated at the center ofcampus and currently housing student offices, the Nazz, LaFortune Club, the Huddle, and many other services 
Fact finder 
By Ray Wise and Doug Murphy 
and organizations, the LaFortune 
Student Center presently serves as 
Notre Dame's social center. For 
some time now, the quest for con­
venient and appropriate social space 
at the University has led to the 
proposal ofa new student center. 
However, the question remains: Is LaFortune an adequate student cen­ter? 
In addition to LaFortune, there are other placesfor students on campus, including the Rockne Memorial Building, the ACC, and the Senior Bar. The Rock and the ACC are limited by only offering athletic facilities and early closing hours. The Senior Bar is limited because one must be 21 in order to use it. In the words ofbartender Rich Keenan, "A Senior Bar...is exactly what it is. It's not a student bar." BartenderJim Daily agrees. "It's not a student cen­ter. It's good for seniors." 
Kathy Jurado, Off-Campus Com­missioner, expressed the opinion that l.aFortune is inadequate to meet the needs ofoff-campus students. She said,"The University needs a place with better facilities than LaFortune has. Right now, LaFortune is used primarily as a place for 0-C 

_The_Qbserxer_Student Poll 
Students surveyed: 131 all on-campus How often do you use LaFortune for social purposes (including the Nazz, Huddle, Darby's, LaFortune Club, meetings, and study?) 
MORE THAN TWO TIMES PER WEEK  13 percent  
ONE OR TWO TIMES PER WEEK  25 percent  
ONE OR TWO TIMES PER MONTH  37 percent  
LESSTHAN ONCE A MONTH  25percent  

In your opinion, does ND need a new student center? YES 47 percent NO 17 percent UNDECIDED 36percent 
students to study and cat during the day. We need social space; a place with more and better entertainment facilities." 
Similar views were expressed by Student Body President Don Murday and Vice President Tara Kenney. Murday stated that LaFortune is "not a true student center,"and, although. agood facility, it just is not adequate. He sees a need for "a place where you can just go by chance...a natural place where you can just go... and mill around." 
To this end, Murday proprosed to the Trustees that a committee be formed to study student life at other colleges and universities. Approved by the trustees and operating under Fr. Van Wolvlear's auspict·s, the committee members will be ap­pointed by Fr. Van Wolvlear, subject to the Student Government's ap­proval. Murday said that the com­mittee will operate "over break and also second semester...to study stu­dent life at other campuses." The committee members will be "going to specific schools... deduced to be...peer institutions." The entire project will be focused at "other col­lege campuses like Notre Dame" in order "to come up with one formal proposal" pertaining to student life at Notre Dame. This proposal will be 
presented to the trustees. 

Murday characterized the project as "a foot in the door for students." Miss Kenney added that the issue of student life and a student center "has been coming up for the past several years," and the formation of the committee is "the first concrete 
Wednesday, November 11, 1981 -page 6 

action that shows the trustees are in­terested." 
The Observer recently polled 131 students at the South Dining Hall and found that 47 percent ofthe stu­dents surveyed felt that Notre Dame needed a new student center, while 1 7 percent felt that the University does not. 36 percent ofthe students were undecided. The results indi­cate that, while many students see the need for a new student center, a surprisingly large percentage are unsure. This shows that there is wis­dom in conducting a study to determine whether any needs ofthis nature exist at Notre Dame. 
The question ofwhether LaFortune is an adequate student center for the University remains unanswered. It is hoped that through the investigative commit­tee's efforts a firm direction towards that end will finally emerge. 


Berrigan's ministry of disobedience 
Rev. DanielBerrigan is best described 
as an activistjorpeace. joseph Cosgrove tells the story 
of the 1972 Senior Class Fellow. Berrigan will be 
giving a lecture entitled "The Folly ofPeacemaking" 
November 14 at 8.-oo in the Library Auditorium. He 
will also deliver the homily at the 12:15 p.m. Mass in 
Sacred Heart Church on Sunday, November 15th. 
A 
s Christians, we are taught that the grave, the most 
desolate ofall places, has been made sacred by 
Jesus' short, yet memorable stay within. The faithful go 
to the grave knowing its redeeming significance, the 
scene of that Easter victory. But before His rest in the 
garden tomb, Jesus spent a night in jail, similarly 
consecrating it and its inhabitantsforever by his willing 
presence. While human destiny commits us all to the 
grave, few among us have been willing to join the Mes­siah in his ministry ofimprisonment. The thought alone is repulsive. Yet there are some among us who, in their 
appeal to a greater law not bound by earthly aut­horitarians, risk the punishing wrath ofCaesar in what they do. Father Dan Berrigan, S.J., has consistently led 
this minority in gospel witness and triumphant civil dis­obedience...and to jail. 
In 1969, as a response to the continuing war in Viet­nam, Father Berrigan, his brother Philip (then a Josephite priest) and seven others invaded the Selective Service Office in Catonsville, Maryland. Using napalm, homemade from a recipe in a U.S military hand­book, they destroyed the draft records ofhundreds of young men. In his subsequent trial, Father Berrigan tes­tified that he "went to Catonsville and burned some papers because the burning ofchildren is inhuman and unbearable...I knew at length I could not announce the gospel from a pedestal. I must act as a Christian, sharing the risks and burdens and anguish of those whose lives were placed in the breach by us. I saw suddenly and it struck with the force oflightning that my position was false. I was threatened with verbalizing my moral sub­stance out ofexistence. I was placing upon young ' shoulders a filthy burden, the original sin of war." 
Father Berrigan's poetic prophecy did not end the war. Neither did his years in Danbury Federal Prison, where he was sent for his Catonsville antics. And most ofour comfortable society was willing to pass him off as simply a kook, a post-Vaticanll peace-nik, aJesuit with his collar wrapped too tightly. But Berrigan con­tinued, as the prophets ofthe Old Testament, to give witness to gospel peace even after Vietnam and the Danbury experience. Countless sit-ins and demonstra­tions continued to land Father Berrigan behind bars as he protested the hell-bent arms build up ofthe 1970's, the stockpiling ofatomic umbrellas for that fast-
approaching nuclear rainy day. Finally, in September 1980, the Berrigan brothers and six others entered the temple ofour nuclear god, a missile factory in King of Prussia Pennsylvania, overturned the weapon makers' money tables by destroying MX nosecones and celebrated a holocaust against the upcoming Holocaust by pouring blood on missle design plans. The actors in this scripturally inspired lunacy, the beatingof"swords into plowshares" as Isaiah commands, were treated to a criminal conviction and a three to ten year prison sen­tence, currently under appeal to the Pennsylvania Supe­rior Court. As before, the actions of these"PLOWSHARES 8" did not end the threat ofther­monuclear war. As in ancient times, our prophets are imprisoned for their threatening rendition ofthe truth. 
As we prepare for the visit ofFather Berrigan, the question arises: What can this convicted felon-for­peace have to say to our upwardly -mobile genera­tion? To the Notre Dame seniors often years ago, that time when compassion and brotherhood seemed more sincere, Father Berrigan spoke ofa Christian witness which they sought to imitate. He was named Senior Class Fellow that year. To us, Father Berrigan calls for a new witness, given not to a god of nuclear power or to the statutes ofa red, white, and blue Caesar. Instead we are challenged to have faith, the kind ofinsane faith in the Father that ledJesus to a rather uncomfortable cross. Under any circumstances, it was a risky bid to think that Calvary would render anything but ex­cruciating pain. Jesus' eleventh hour Gethsemane ap­peal for reprieve shows the lack ofguarantee provided in his Good Friday outing. All He had was faith; the faith 
ofwhich resurrections are made. 

And all we have is faith. Perhaps we seek too many definites in a world where definites do not exist. We want answers and absolutes. But Father Berrigan asks instead that we entrust the larger picture to God, and make our acts offaith, like burningdraft files and smash­ing nosecones, part ofthat larger picture. His words at Catonsville chide us, yet invite us to this mission: "Christians pay conscious, indeed religious tribute to Caesar and Mars by the approval ofoverkill tactics, by brinkmanship by nuclear liturgies, by racism, by sup­port ofgenocide. They embrace their society with all 
their heart and abandon the cross. They pay lip service to Christ and military service to the powers ofdeath. And yet, and yet, the times are inexhaustibly good, solaced by the courage and hope of many. The truth rul!:!S, Christ is not forsaken." May we, as unwilling and unprepared as we are to listen, hear that same call of Father Dan Berrigan, to proclaim, not foresake, our God in courage and hope and faithful witness. 

The Observer--Features Wednesday, November 11, 1981 -page 7 


Gogol play begins Friday 
R
unning short on imagination one day, Russian novelist Nikolai 
By Peggy Bass 
Gogo! asked his friend Pushkin in a letter to send him "an authentically 
Russian ane<:dote" upon which ro haM~ a comedy. This borrowed idea germinated into a controversial play 
that caused such an uproar among 
the Russians of that time that Gogo!, 
ft.·aring for his life, tlcd his mother 
country and spent the next twelve 
years in exile. This same comedy, 
"Tht· Inspector General" premiers 
on Friday, Nov. I 3, in conjunction 
with the I OOth anniversary of Wash­
ington Hall. 
"The Inspector General" debuted on April19, 1836, whileJohn Ander­son's adaptation, the version presented by the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's Theatre, opened at the Hud­son Theater in New York City on Dec. .23, 19~0. The comedy tells a 
story about crooked politics in a small town, a story still relevant despite the fact that it is 14 5 years old. Condemned as "a slander ofHo­ly Russia," it satirized the Russian 
aristocracy of the early 19th cen­tury, revealing the corruption and incompetence of Russian "officialdom" in a humorous man­ocr. 
In the comedy, the bureaucrats of a small town, led by the Mayor (Rick Lcchowich), his wife and daughter (Susan Gosdick andJoan Quinlan), 
and his associated (John Garibaldi, John Davenport, Michael McKay, Joe Dolan, Daniel Moran, and Paul 
Clay). hear ofthe impending visit of an Inspector General from the capi­
tal traveling "incognito." News of 
this visit throw the officials into a 
frenzy, for this man could discover tht• town's corrupt political workings and convict the officials in the process. The frantic search for 
this Inspector General leads the burcauaats to a mysterious "official 
from Petersburg," Ivan 
Alexandrovitch Hlastakov (Sean 
Faircloth), who is staying in a second-rate hotel on the outskirts of town. Certainly this man is the In­spector General -he must be, all 
the evidence points to him ­
doesn't it? The con-games and con­fusion evolving from this situation provides laughter all through the play, leading to the discovery of the true Inspector General at the end. 
"The play is filled with beautiful characters," comments Leonard Powlick, director ofthe Notre Dame/Saint Mary's production. His enthusiasm alone is enough to con­vince one to see the comedy. He continues, "It is a play about greed, 
corruption, cupidity, pettiness, protecting one's turf. The ones who were trying to hoodwink others were hoodwinked themselves." Mr. Powlick joined the department of Communications and Theatre in 1980, after having taught four years at Wilkes College in eastern Pennsyl­vania. He earned advanced degrees in both Theatre Arts and English from the University of Pittsburgh. 
The production of"The Inspector General" coincides with the I OOth anniversary of Washington Hall. The present edifice was erected in 181::!1 on the site ofthe original hall which fire destroyed in 1879. Fr. Sorin, Uni­versity President at the time ofthe fire, cited his respect for George' 
Washington as the reason for 
naming the building as he did. 
Rumor has it that Washington Hall is 
haunted by the ghost ofa man who fell from a hatton above and died on t)le stage; in addition, Washington 
Hall reportedly houses its own resi­dent bat who made a guest ap­pearance during the Thurber production staged there earlier this year. 
In any case, "The Inspector General," presented by the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's Theatre, opens Friday, Nov. 13 at 8:00p.m. in Wash­ington Hall. Price ofadmission is 
52.50 for students, faculty, staff and seniorcitizens and $3.00 general ad­mission Opening night patrons will receive one complimentary ticket for each regularly priced ticket purchased. The comedy continues on Nov. 14, 19, 20, and 21. 
The Inspector General 

PLACE: Washington Hall DATES SHOWING: November 13, 14, 19, 20, and 21. TIME: 8:00p.m. PRICE: $2.50 for student.... faculty, staff, and senior 
citizens; $3 for general admission 
Record review 

Genesis puts effort in 'Abacab' 
A
bacab, the fifth Genesis studio rdcase since the departure of the extraordinary Peter Gabriel, marks yet another change in the musical direction ofthis twelve 
By Dave Krotinc 
year old band. With Gabriel, the group enjoyed critical acclaim but little commercial success. It was not until drummer Phil Collins assumed lead vocal duties (after Gabriel left to consider the priest­hood) that Ge.nesis made the Top 40 playlists with "Follow You, Fol­low Me" and "Misunderstanding." 
Obviously motivated by the surprising succcess ofCollins' recent solo alhum, Face Value, Abacab picks up whereFace Value left off. Collins has finally emerged as the groups driving force and his influence predominates the newest effort. 
Perhaps the best song on the al­bum is the Collins penned "Man In the Corner." The song's sparse ar­rangement is simalar to "In the Air Tonight" from Face Value. Backed up by only Tony Banks synthesizer and a mesmerizing rhythm machine, Collins uses his voice and blasts ofpercussion to build the song up to an emotional climax. Another potential hit single is "No Reply at All." Once again employ­ing the outstanding talent of the Earth Wind and Fire horn section, Collins fuses progressive rock with R & B. "Suppers Ready" this is not, hut the result is startling and new 
f(>r the band. 
This is not to imply that old fans will be turned offby everythingon Abacah. "Me and SarahJane" and "Like It or Not" arc more typical of the standard Genesis roc!u:r· plod­ding bass, heavy percussion, layered keyboards, and shimmer­ing twelve string guitars. However, compared to the usual wall of sound ,Abacab's arrangements are remarkably streamlined. Mike Rut­herford plays very little guitar and concentrates on his well-known bass pedals. Banks shows unusual restraint on keyboards. The net cf­fet is that Collins voice doesn't get lost in the mix. 
The title track is a fine example ofthe skilled interplay Genesis has always displayed on record and in concert. Prodded on by a strong, driving beat, Rutherford and Banks alternate searing solos over the final three minutes of the song. This should be even better in con­cert. Traditionally, Genesis has an insrumental or two peralbum, but this is the closest to one on the record. 
Spurred on by Collins im­aginative rhythems,Abacab is the first Genesis album in quite some time to maintain a high energy level from start to finish. The non­sensical "Who Dunnit" and the bouncy "Keep It Dark" are espe­cially interesting. lfAbacabis any indication ofthe Genesis sound of the 80's, the band should satisfy a wide variety of musical tastes in the future. 

Abacab Genesis 



Memories still linger for younger brother 
Everyone at some time or another has their gratifying ex­
periences. I can still feel the chill that traveled up my spine when the 
girl that I asked to my first prom said that she would love to go. I can 
remember how excited I was when I saw my first article in the high 
school newspaper, and I remember how I nearly flew through the 
ceiling in delight as I read my letter ofacceptance to Notre Dame. 
Then there's the long-term feeling ofgratification the kind that an 
author feels as a forthcoming novel nears completion or that a 
great-grandmother feels as her family grows in size. It's the same 
type ofpleasure that I have felt watching my little brother grow up. 
He started out like most people--asa baby. Ifthere's one thing I cannot stand, it's crying ·\ll*l' .,~ ., 00 babies, and at the time, my · · · 
brother was no exception. Marc Ramirez 

Babies never cease to amaze me with their uncanny sense 
oftiming. They will wake up 
bawling for their bottle or a 
change ofattire usually when you're in the middle ofa good dream 
or watching the last few minutes ofa great movie. I used to constant­
ly carry an innocent Nerffootball around to vent my frustrations out 
on in such situations. 
My parents named the baby Michael (the best name, obviously, would have been Marc, but that was already taken)-As he got older he talked a lot more and cried a lot less, which was fine with me. He also turned out to be the perfect sparring partner for my youngest sister. He was three years her junior, but still as capablt: oflanding the knockout punch. 
Summertime seemed to be the fighting season. Trying to relax in 
front ofthe television was an impossibility. With even greater fre­
quency than the commercials, Michael and my sister Marie would 
start an argument about God-knows-what and then the usual se­quence would follow: Michael and Marie in room. Michael hits Marie. Marie chases Michael out ofroom, through hallway, into living room and past me, momentarily obstructing my view of"Thc Price is Right," into the kitchen, to the dining room, to the family room. Michael seeks sanctuary under safety ofworn-out pool table. Marie finds Michael. Marie hits Michael. Michael chases Marie out of family room, into dining room, into kitchen, into the living room and past me, momentarily obstructing my view of"The Price is Right," through the hallway and into their room. Marie seeks refuge behind door. Michael finds her. Michael hits Marie... 
Michael usually comes out the winner in these domestic bouts. To celebrate his victory he apologizes to his whimpering sister. He was six years old and learning. 
In his seventh yearoflife he mastered imitations ofGroucho Marx 
andJimmy Durante. I was the only one who enjoyed them, and the 
dinner table emptied quickly when he rattled off the one-liners. 
Soon only he and I were left, and this happened so often that it was 
my habitual joke to say, "Well, it's just me and you, kid." 
The day before I left to come to Notre Dame, Michael and I sat 
quietly at the kitchen table once again-after a quick lunch. He wasn't 
too happy about my leaving, and he surprised me by saying, "Well, 
it's just me and you, kid." That touched me even more than the time 
we told him that the dead tree in the yard was going to have to come 
down. When we told him that, he got the water hose and began 
watering the tree, telling it that it couldn't die because ofall the good 
times he had had climbing it. 
It's been almost three months since I've seen .\1ichad now, and I 
realize that I even miss how he used to get on my nerves. 
This is the last letter I received from him, scrawled in his eight­
year-old handwriting: 
Hi Marc! How areyou doing? It's 7:52 in the night. I badfun trick-or-treating on Halloween. I'm sorrey tbut I haven't been writing to you butplease send me a postcard because I missyou. I wish you could be here on Thanksgiving Day. on your next letter put whenyourDay isyou aregoing to arrive at the Airport and on the day you arrive at the Airport we willjustgo pickyou up! really missyou so let's face it it's not me andyou kid well that's allI have timefor now but remember send me my postcard ofwhat it looks like in Nvter Dame okay 
M icbael Ramirezyour Brother 
WensdayNovember4 1981 
Reading it was a gratifying experience for me. 
-~--~----­
I 

Wednesday, November 11, 1981 page 8 

By lht' rJIJS£'1'/'t'f and lht' .-lssucialt'tl Pres<!· 

Notre Dame's ScubaClub will meet tomorrow at 8 
p.m. in the LaFortune Uttle Theatre. A representative fromAquapro will give a presentation on diving opportunities around the area All are invited -The Observer 
The Fellowship ofChristian Athletesis 
sponsoring an evening with head basketball coach Digger Phelps. The presentation will be held in the Howard Hall chapel tomorrow at 8:30p.m. The FCA promotes Christian fellowship among athletes and coaches in the hope that this will be shared with the entire community. All are invited to attend. -The Observer 
Mary D. and Diggerwill unveil their 1981-82 basket­ball squads Saturday at the ACC in the annual intrasquad games. DiS­tanislao's women will play at 7 p.m., and Phelps' men will play immediately following. Student tickets are 50 cents and others are n and available at the ACC's Gate 10 box office. Proceeds go to the 
Neighborhood Study Help Program and the Special Olympics. ­
The Observer 
A six-mile run for Notre Dame students, faculty, and staff will be held on Saturday, Nov. 14, at 10 am. Separate divisions for men and women will be established in each of the following three categories -undergraduate, graduate, and faculty-staff. Ifyou wish to run, you must come to the interhall office (C-2 in the ACC) and complete the insurance and entry forms before Thursday, Nov. 
12. The course wiU be entirely on the Notre Dame campus. -The Observer 
Tommy Lasorda, who led the Los Angeles Dodgers to their first World Series triumph in 16 years, was named National League Manager of the Year yesterday by the Associated Press. Lasorda combined the talents of rookie sensation Fernando Valen­zuela and seasoned veterans to take the Dodgers to the pennant. Lasorda receved 21 5 votes, while St. Louis manager Whitey Herzog garnered 163, and Cincinnati's john McNamara finished third with 81 votes. -TheAssociatedPress 
Package Astudent basketball tickets are still avaiable. Any student, regardless ofclass, may purchase tickets at the second floor ticket office of the ACC. Tickets will be sold on a first-come, first­served basis. -The Observer 
Bill Allerhelligen, Notre Dame's strength and con­ditioning coach, will hold a weight training and conditioning clinic tonight at 7:30p.m. in the Rockne Memorial weight room. The clinic will include a lecture, demonstrations, and a question and answer period. -The Observer 
ND Rugby Clubwill hold a meeting on Thursday, Nov. 12 in LaFortune Ballroom at 7:30p.m. in order to elect next semes­ter's council. -The Observer 
Interhall soccerplayoffs reached the semifinal round last night on Cartier Field. Freshman Bob Funk scored midway through the first half to allow Zahm to advance to the finals, as his team shut-out Morrissey, l-0. Stanford was a 1-0 winner as well, as they got by Flanner. Sophomore Steve Theobold got the game­winner wuth just eight minutes to go in the game. Zahm and Stanford will meet in the finals Thursday at 7 p.m. on Cartier Field. -The 
Observer 

Notre Dame tri-captain Bob Crable was named 
Midwest Defensive Player of the Week by the Associated Press yes­terday. Against Georgia Tech Crable, who has lead the team in tackles in 29 of the 31 games he has started in his career, had 13 tackles, one ofthem for a loss, and returned an interception 33 yards to set up a touchdown in Notre Dame's 35-3 romp. Michigan Quar­terback Steve Smith was honored as Offensive Player of the Week after the Wolverines defeated Illinois, 70-21. -The Observer 
jBIINTERHALL,.; 
lnterhall racquetball and handball tournaments begin this week. Pa1nngs will appear each week in The Observer. It is the responsibility of each par­ticipant to contact his or her opponent and set up a match in each round. Results of matches must be turned in to the interhall off1ce (C-2 ACC) before noon on the following Tuesday. Failure to report results will mean disqualification of both participants. 
Men's Racquetball Tony P1erce (1424) v. Pat Doran (8401)' Kev1n Sampson (3379) v. Kevin Norburg (1573) Rich Cordova (1249) v. George LaChance (8175) Damian Marshall (1509) v. Dave Desaulniers 
(1750) Matt Brach (1069) v. Neil Chadw1ck (277-6320) Jack Eisenbeis (1 058) v. Kevin O'Brien (1767) Tony Caterina (1621) v. Carlos Martinez (8640) Tom O'Brien (1248) v. Rob Ebert (8428) 
Women's Racquetball (Semifinals) Missy Sorapure (288-0993) v. Pam Gorski 1262) Tamara Miller (1363) v. Martha Gallagher (4312) 
Women's Grad/Fac Racquetball Jane Barker (272-7325) v. Sally Derengoski (272­7325) Cynthia Watson (7711) v. Susan Roberts (282­1029) Dorothy Pashley (6738/287-6738) v. Joan Doverspike (7711) 
Men's Grad-Fac Racquetball Sm1lh Burn (8819) v. Dav1d Kessler (7636) Jim Croke (234-2880) v. Mark Mullert (3844) Jack Jones (8827) v. Vijay Ramon (4364) 
Handball (Semifinals) Bob Bradley (1154) v. Kelly Clark (287-8528) Kevin Schmidt (1602) v. Ray Slager (3664) 
The Observer will accept classifieds Mon­day through. Friday. tO a.m. to 430 p.m. However. classifieds to appear in the next issue must be received by 3 p.m. the business day pnor to insertion. All classtfieds must be prepa1d.
Classifieds either in person or through the mall. 
NOTICES 
USED BOOK SHOP. HOURS WED.. SAT., SUN. 9-7. CASPERSON. 1303 BUCHANAN RD .. NILES. 
WHO ARE THESE PEOPLE? A spectacular solo performance by J. Alexander Gilliam (Soon to appear in RIPLEY'S BELIEVE IT OR NOT) Fri. Nov. 13 at 7:15 PM in Annen berg Auditorium (in Snite Museum) 
Jugglers club meets thursdays at 7 oclock by the ice rink in the ace 
THE NAZZ PROUDLY PRESENTS THE RETURN OF RMS. THURSDAY NIGHT. 9:30-12. THE FINEST IN CAMPUS JAZZ. MILES, TRANE, BIRO, MONK LIVE AT THE NAZZ. 

FOR RENT 
UGLY DUCKLING RENT A CAR. FROM $7.95 A DAY & WEEKEND SPECIALS AVAILABLE. CALL 259-8459. 
NEED third roommate beginning next semester CASTLE POINT APTS­Iuxurious but affordable, 3 bdr. apt, rac­quet club with sauna and whirlpool. All for only 120 elec. Gender irrelevant (SMCs-­counts as 3-credit lab course towards ad­
vanced degree). CaD Mike or Larry atl77· 
3306 
MALE ROOMMATE WANTED FOR FURNISHED APARTMENT. $110/MONTH UTILITIES PAID. 287­
5469. 
Tired of paying rent? Live for free in your own house & choose yout own roommates. 3 houses to choose from. private owner 7 flexible financing. Cal' 288-1224 
ROOMMATE NEEDED -LAVISHLY FURNISHED APT. CLOSE TO N.D. ­CALL DAVE AT 283-1169 -RENT NE­GOTIABLE 

I LOST/FOUND 
LOST: A dark brown, Angora lady's hat between the Memorial Library and the Huddle on Monday 11/02/81. $5 Reward! Please call62181 
LOST! TWO CAMERAS: VIVITAR w/INI­TIALS TAM. and 35 mm KONACA. PLEASE CALL4688SMC IF FOUND. AT LEAST RETURN THE FILM -ITS IIR­REPLACABLE. THANKS. 
LOST Tl30 CALCULATOR IN FRONT OF BUSINESS AD. BUILDING CALL JIM 8658 
LOST: Gold & Black "STING" baseball jacket left on Alumni bench at Dillon­Alumni football game Nov. 4. Has No. 28 and initials S.G. on it. Please call Chris at 1178. I love that Jacket. 
LOST: One Grey Suitcoat at the PASQUERILLA WEST-MORRISSEY FORMAL Friday Evening. If you picked it up by mistake please call John at x3430 
Lost: back pack, tan and blue. Made by WyEast, Inc. call Vince x 1238 
LOST! Pair of gold framed glasses in brown case marked Rogers Optical If found call Mike at 288-3108. 
LOST: Pearl & gold ring at HC/Badin for­mal in women's room. Highest sentimen­tal value. Please call Sue at 6955. 
Lost: A Set of 4 keys. perhaps in the vicinity of the laundry room at Badin Hall. If found, Please call 7695. 
LOST:Charm Holder wrth three charms­near Alumni Hall -Reward Lori at (41)5771. 
LOST One Gold Bracelet on Saturday before or during the Georgia Tech game. Most likely lost on Green Field during the Dillon Hall tailgaiter near the backstop across from Senior Bar. If found. Please call Michael233-2969. 
lost: A silver watch in the first floor restroom 1n O'Shag Thursday Nov. 6 If you happened to pick it up please call x1820 


[ WANTED 
Need ride to Cleveland for Thanksgiving. Call John at 8450. 
Need ride to Cedar Rapids. Iowa for T­giving. Can leave after 11 am on Wed. Please call Lisa at 8160. 
Need riders east on 1-80 (preferably North 
Jersey). Leaving Friday, Nov. 20 about 
2:30, return Sunday. 11/29, call Chris at 
3384. 
NEED A RIDE TO SPRINGFIELD. ILL FOR THANKSGIVING. WILL SHARE THE USUAL CAll FRANK AT 1794. 
NEED RIDE TO WASH DC area for Thanksgiving. Will pay$$$. Call Pat-3459 
Riders wanted to go to St. Louis Nov. 16­
17. Call Tim x3669. 
G01ng to N.Y. for Thanksgiving? I need a nde to Rochester. Syracuse. Buffalo, or vicinity. Will share usual. Call Tara 7060. 
HELP!!! I need a ride to the MIN­NEAPOLIS/ST. PAUL area for Thanksgiving Break. I will share dnving and expenses, and can leave at your con­venience. Clare--3714 
RIDERS NEEDED FOR THANKSGIVING--To Chicago O'Hare. leaving Wed. Nov. 25 , at 12:30pm/returning Mon. Nov. 30 or late Sun. Nov. 29. Call Debbie at 2736. 
il need a ride to Chicago on Fri. the 13th. Call1154 
NEED A RIDE TO CHICAGO THIS THURSDAY, NOV. 12 CALL Bill AT 1185 
WANTED: PENN ST. TIXS. CALL EM­METT AT 234-6298 
NEED ride to St. Paul or West for turkey day. Can leave Mon. at noon. Vince x1238 
Need ride to D.C. for Thanksgiving break. 
Stop. Room-male needs ride to Mil­
waukee. Stop. If you're going either way, stop first and call us. Stop. Then call1158. Stop. Now go. Stop. 
RIDERS needed to KANSAS CITY for Thanksgiving. Leave Tues. Nov. 24. Call Mike at 3655. 
A BOSTON THANKSGIVING-Need riders to preferably leave on Friday; maybe on Monday. Call Gib after 11­1628. 
NEED RIDE to LOUISVILLE KY for T­giving. call LEE at 8693 
WANTED: Riders to go to Penn State game; have car. need passengers. Call Kevin at 1894 or Henry at 1904. 

FOR SALE 
GENESIS TIX FOR SALE---FOUR GOOD SEATS FOR THE NOV 17TH GENESIS SHOW ARE AVAILABLE. C,P.LL KEN AT 8350-ANYTIME 
Two oil space heaters and 250-gal. tank. $150 for all three. Also. 8-room. 100­yr.old. Queen Anne house. 621 N. Lafaye«e, all new electrical wiring, gas furnace, newly painted inside and out. new roof, under $40.000. Call234-5686. 


TICKETS 
Penn St. ticket wanted please call Donna at6771 
Need tix for P&nn State. Call Stan, 3006 or 3008. 
Need PSU tickets. Call 232-9596. ··········································----···----·· GENESIS TIX FOR SALE---FOUR GENESIS TICKETS FOR SALE---GOOD SEATS CALL 8350 ANYTIME. 
Will PAY MEGA BUCKS FOR TICKETS TO ROLLING STONES CONCERT IN CHICAGO CONTACT MICK AT 4215 
Old school teacher, who predicts Faust's era will end with ND being allowed to play the pros only, needs a PENN STATE GA. Call 283-8598 
ROLLING STONES TIX Up to 5 tix for Nov 23 show in Ch1cago. Best offer. Call Mike at 3482 
ROLLING STONES TICKETS: Monday 11/23, 4th row center. Best offer. Call Mike 287-0601 7-9 p.m. 
FOR SALE: TWO PENN STATE TIX Call Rich at 8763 or 8765. 
PENN STATE t1cket or tix needed. Call John at x1947 anyt1me--JUSt make it soon! 
STUDENT HOCKEY TIX-$10 per pkg. or best offer. Gib-1628. 
GOOD MONEY FOR PENN STATE TIX CALL3793 
FAMILY REUNION AT PSU. NEED MEGA-TIX. CALL MEGHAN 8114. 
NEED 4 PENN ST TIX. CALL PERRY AT 287-6381 AFTER 6 PM. 
student b-ball tix tor sale. both packages. and good seats (section 1 02) 101 is mid­court. call Pat at 233-2969 

Need 2 PENN ST GA's call: Steve 1816 
Need 2 Penn State tickets Call Kevin, 8949 
................ 

PERSONALS 
Where's the redhead? 
THE ZAHM COFFEEHOUSE IS OPEN 
EVERY THURSDAY FOR YOUR EX IS. 
TENTIAL PLEASURE. OFFERING THE 
FINEST IN LIVE ENTERTAINMENT, 
COFFEE, TEA, HOMEMADE DONUTS, 
FREE POPCORN AND PAT GALLAG­
HER. COME DOWN AND SEE IF OUR 
PROFESSIONAL CONYER· 
SATIONALISTS ARE PAID ENOUGH. 
9-12 EVERY THURSDAY NIGHT, 
ZAHM BASEMENT. 
I write the songs Music 
ATTENTION PITTSBURGH CLUB MEM­BERS --Sign-ups for the THANKSGIV­ING BUS w1ll take place on Wed., NOV. 11 STARTING AT 7:00PM in LaFortune Little Theatre. Buses Will leave ND on Wed.. NOV. 25 at 1 :00 PM from the CCE and return from Pgh. on Sun .. NOV. 29 at 
1:00 PM from the Greyhound Terminal Downtown. COST IS $45.00 ROUND TRIP and $29.00 ONE WAY. NO REFUNDS!!! QUESTIONS? •• CALL BRIAN EICHENLAUB at 1581. 
Dearest Evil, Very •ntngued. Wait1ng anxiously. Look­up Camus' "The Stranger" at the library. 
10:00. Tonight. I'll be there. 
Yours. The Philosopher 
MMMOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOI SaturdayI Ylpeeeeeeel QUACK-QUACK 
To the south quad man who wears a CCHS Lacrosse tacket and who sits in Sec 33/top: Why do you stare? Call me ... Ann 1257 
I NEED A RIDE TO PH ILLY! or there­abouts. W1ll gladly share $ & bring beverages. Call M1ke 13861 
Happy Birthday MAURA KAHN!! This lus­CIOUS, VIV8CIOUS southern Indiana JUnior iS 20 years old today. For free birthday kisses (to give or to receive) call41-4541 or stop by and visit 282 LeMans. 
ND/SMC SOPHOMORES!! We will be having a ·Friday the 13th" party this Fnday at GUiseppes. $3.00 for guys and $2.00 for gals. Party starts at 9:00. Bnng your student I.D. 
FUZZ: a film you won't soon forget" VINTAGE WELCH" 
MARDI GRAS IS ALIVE AN WELLIIIIIIIII 
WANT TO KILL A NITTANY LJONJ I need Penn State tix--call x1947 
Dear Enn: Happy B-day. Thanx for be1ng such a good friend. The DYXZ 
Kathy Where is George? How is the boy from Zahm? I have trouble sleeping because of you. (Roses ...) 
TJW -The QUAD. home of the dancin' bar. rocks Saturday night! 
I NEED A RIDE TO PH ILLY! or there­abouts. Will gladly share $ & bnng beverages. Call Mike 13861 
Came Luepke ­-the proud recipient of the Hoos1er Award for Tues. night's game! 
····················· SENIORS-ASSOCIATE WITH US. HOLY CROSS ASSOCIATES! Deadline: this 
Thursday, Nov. 12. Contact Mary Ann Roemer at Vol. Services, x7308. ······················ 
Tutor desperately needed for student at Southwestern MI. in Organic and Bio­Chemistry. Can meet tutor on N.D. campus for tutoring sessions. Call VSO x7308 for details. 
Rita, We've got Steve right where we want him. All is well. 
S.MK 
L'aub, 
Sorry for being so un-chouette. I deserved another--Allez! Vachel" Thanks for breaker-ing the silence and tension. No more games. d' accord? 
Ton Ami, 
Guillaume 
P.S. Don't forget. U.O.Me 23! 
NEED RIDE to the LEHIGH VALLEY in EASTERN PA. leaving after noon on TUESDAY 11/24 PLEASE CALL MIKE at 1787 
WOODY ALLEN won't be at our HAPPY HOUR.. Will YOU? K OF C 4 pm FRIDAY 
CONFIDENTIAL: CAN'T GET ANY SATISFACTION FROM COLD LIPS AT STILLBORN-TATOO 2 -(12) MG 
HEY, ATLANTA 82--WHERE ARE YOU NOW? 
STORMY IS A HOOLIGAN --MAKE STORMY BLUSH! 
GROUP SEX II Now that we have your at­tention, we have an announcement for all you creative. talented. and dedicated(?) people. SCHOLASTIC Production Meeting -Saturday at 10:00 A.M. Be there or be square. 
HAPPY ANNIVERSARY to those crazy Atlantans-my parents. Have a super 19th (I hope that's nght)l!! THE CREEPER of NOTRE DAME. 
Dear Paul Kosidowski; 
When you and the Baldresi Brothers take the stage tomorrow. make sure you get up shake your booty, you know? G1ve the audience what they want, wh1ch is some action , man. Dig? You can't play more than three bars without raistng your arms and clapping your hands. hokay 
man? Hokay. Hasta manana. 
Gerardo Velez 
ATTENTION EAST QUAD RESIDENTS Announcing the all new Mod Quad Movies every Wednesday night. Tonight's features: 
The Three Stooges 
Abbot & Coatello 
The Marx Brothers Showt1me is 11 :00 pm in the Flenner Pit Free popcorn ASSOCIATE WITH US. HOLY CROSS ASSOCIATES/ Overseas deadline th1s Thursday, Nov. 12. Contact Mary Ann Roemer, Vol. Ser. Office; x7308. 
To Mary: Do all girls on 4 South have ugly­looking stuffed ammals adorn1ng their ­rooms? Maybe that's what keeps the truckdnvers from Grace away. 
RMS ... THURSDAY NIGHT AT THE NAZZIII 
MILES UVES...THURSDAY NIGHT AT THE NAZZ. 9:30-12. 
II bildo mateta for upoc II 
JODY. HAVE A HAPPY 22nd BIRTHDAY/! THEDJ 
Sylvia. Happy Anniversary! 1 year in the 
U.S. Nov.4! We love you and are happy you're here with us/love. 2RS 
Moose Alert! Friday the 13th looms Beware the return of Uncle Ryan Bring Your Own Ver Berkmoes Saturday Night Special (Monica, Take Note) 
Demers Beware! Beautiful blonde from New Jersey wants to hear from all Clint E. or Spnngsteen fans. Attached males need not call. Ask for Lauren 41-5407. 
Time only tells if Kathy Me. howls, but everyone knows that the Wolf still prowls! 
LARRY­·Hope you're back on your feet soon. Mocrud.Data 
GENESIS IS COMING! 
The Top Twenty Time Tunnel becomes The Top 40 Time Tunnel tonight on WSND-FM 88.9 at 12:15 a.m. Join Tim Neely as he counts down the top 40 songs from some year in the past (he has not decided which one yet). A presentation of Nocturne Nightflight. 
Sugob Remod,freshman.a man barely alive. Struggling through college. Sugob IS crushed under the weight of Calculus exams. Chemistry quizzes. and English papers and IS be•ng mfluenced by rad•cal professors who are doing strange and abusive th1ngs lo his mental state. Can he surv1ve thiS ultimate challenge?? F1nd out next week on--Sugob: Portrait of a DISillu­SIOned Domer. 

P.O.E.T.S. CLUB HAPPY HOUR EVERY FRIDAY-BIG RED PUB 
.. ........ ····························· ................ .. G1ve Drooby Lark1n 22 kisses today -it's his birthday 
.... . . .. . . . . . . . . . . ' . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . .. . .. . . . -. . .. . . . . . . . . . . . Would you like to know where Taunton, Mass. 1s? For more information on Taun­ton and other such obscure cities and 
towns wnte: 
OBSCURE TOWNS l!'oo Colleen McQUinn 212 LeMans Hall Saint Mary's at Notre Dame 46556 
ROBIN: Thanks for choosing me a~-yo~~ favorite color. HAPPY BIRTHDAY! How d1d I ever know? Love, RED 
Ertelt. Have you checked my drawers yet????? 







Kiel hospitalizedwith 'a severe virus' 

"' 

More Diamond For Your Dollar 
All the quality, selection, and service you've come to expect from John M: Marshall's* for less than you'd expect to pay at the mall! 
• Fine diamonds to fit your budget • Each ring made to order for you 
• Dozens of mounting styles • Free lifetime appraisal 
• Free laser-beam Gemprint™ registration 
(219) 288-8911 
-
We 
Our 
.. 

And that guarantees a career with quality, stability and high visibility-all the things you need to make your mark In the engineering field. 
We're Emerson's Electronics & Space Division, engaged in the daslgn and manufacture of high technology armament and electronic systems for organizations and governments around the world. Our products include specialized radar, automatic test systems, airborne armament systems, missile launching and guidance systems. The Electronics & Space Division is also involved in the optical field, and has extensive software programming ability and familiarity with modern computer architecture. We're the fastest growing company in our field, and our rapid growth and expansion reflects both the constant demand for our products and the variety and challenge available to our 
employees. 
Opportunities are available for: 

• 
ELECTRICAL/ELECTRONIC ENGINEERS 

• 
COMPUTER ENGINEERS 

• 
INDUSTRIAL ENGINEERS 

• 
MECHANICAL & SYSTEMS ENGINEERS 


Electronics & Space is a division of Emerson Electric Co., a Fortune 200 Company, and is head­quartered in St. Louis, a dynamic metropolitan area that boasts a low cost of living, quality educe· lion, great medical C!lnters, outstanding cultural facilities and professional sports. 
We offer competitive salaries and a full range of benefits. For more information about careers with the Electronics and Space Division of Emerson Electric Co., write: 
Joseph P. Williams Manager, Personnel Resources 
Electronic.r.....,...S"pcxeDivision 
II 
Emerson Electric Co. 
8100 W. Florissant Avenue 
Station 2627 
St. Louis, MO 63136 
liMii,.Stll\l 

An Equal Opportunity Employer M!F 
Notre Dame Quarterback Blair Kid has been hospitalized since Monday with what a member of the Notre Dame Sports Medicine Staff calls "a severe virus." 
Tbe Observer has learned that Kiel was taken ill Monday at practice and "nearly collapsed" coming off the field. He was admitted to St. joseph'.s Hospital in South Bend Monday af­ternoon. 
A hospital spokesman says that Kicl is "much improved at this time" and is expected to be released today. 
The Irish starter is currently performing better than at any other time in his career, and has teamed up with freshman sensation joe Howard to add an explosive factor to Notre Dame's.offense. 
Kiel's status for this Saturday's game with Air Force is questionable. If he is released from the hospital today, it is doubtful that he will practice before the team leaves for Colorado Springs Friday morning. There is also the possibility that he will not make the trip at all. 
Kid's illness is not thought to be serious -a hospital spokesman called the affliction "a very bad case ofthe flu" -but indications are that he is unlikely to play at all this weekend. Irish coaches are more likely to rest Kid and let him recuperate so that he'll be available for next week's match-up with Penn State. 
• • • Barlow 
country. The addition of two more

continuedfrom page 12 
high school stand-outs, which tt:rs ofintent, which arc binding, un­Phelps hop~:s will be forthcoming, til the spring. could give Notre Dame the nation's 
With Harlow, Price and Dolan best freshman class for the second already in the fold, recruiting ex­time in three years. perts around the country are touting "Things have gone extremely well Notre Dame as having a big jump on so far," the Irish coach concedes. "I th~· best ret'fuiting year in the hope they continue that way." 

Just 5159 will put you on the road ·for ten full days with unlimited mileage in a m~nu~l-tr~nsmission subcompactcar. Ifyou are 18orolder, haveamajorcredit card ~nd av~lid driver's license, that's all you need. Tell us what size car you would like, ~nd we'll have it ready for you starting November 20. 
Rates are not discountable. Gasoline, appl.icl!ble taxes, optional Collision Damage Waiver and Personal Accident Insurance are not included. No charge for mileage. All cars subject to availability. Cars must be returned JJifS~ tothe rentingloclltion no18ter than November 30, 1981 or higher published Hertz Daily Standard Unlimited Mileage Rates will apply to the entire rental period,and a drop charge will also apply. Ask for complete details. ® 
#1 furEveryone. 
HERTZ RENTS FORDS AND OTHER FINE CARS 

thoIic Inquiry Series 
90 minutes of your time could change your perspective on Catholicism. 
Wednesday 7-8=30pm Hayes -Healy Auditorium 
an 
campus
ministry 

"Why not sexual hedonism?" Fr. Ed Malloy, CSC 
The Observer -Sports Wednesday, November 11, 1981 -page 10 I 
• • • Clements 
,, 
-
. I 







Who will be first to forecast the future ·-electronically? 
Our electronic simulators, computerized training systems, and logistical support all help forecast or prepare for almost any kind of crisis. Our arm of Hughes Aircraft forewarns and forearms pilots in hazardous skies, troops at the front, and the techllicians everywhere who support them. 
Bring us your BS or MS degree in ME, EE, Physics, or Computer Science. You can be part of state-of-the-art electronics outside Los Angeles, or part of a field support team almost anywhere on earth. We'll introduce you to people, ideas, and jobs that could change your world. And ours. 
Ir------------------,I 
I 

HUGHES: 
I I 
~------------------~ 
HUGHES AIRCRAFT COMPANY 
SUPPORT SYSTEMS Proof of U.S. Citizenship Required Equal Opponunity Employer 

Will lae on campus Rovember 10 
See your placement office for •n ..,.,ointment. 

had struck again. guy," said Demmerle, "that he was 
The individual statistics showed almost always able to clear the lane what a team effort 1973 was for so that I could follow the ball better Notre Dame. There were no 1000 rather than see it fly out ofa crowd.' yard rushers and Clements actually 
Just as impressive was the Irish 
threw sparingly compared the likes defensive unit. They allowed only of the Hanrattys and the Theis­66 points during the ten regular manns. But a solid, steady running season games, shutting out three 
attack sparked by tailback Art Best teams and holding five others to ten and bullish fullback Wayne Bullock or less points. Greg Collins spear­enabled Clements to be more ef· headed the linebacking corps, par­fective when he did throw. Best and ticipating in 133 tackles. Collins was Bullock rushed for 745 yards and named National College Lineman of 831 yards respectively and even Cle­the Week by the Associated Press for ments chipped in with over 400 his role in shutting off the Southern yards with his sprint-out style. Cal offense. The Trojans ran 48 of­Clements had an uncanny knack fensive plays; Collins had a hand in 
for throwing rather effectively while stopping 23 of them with 18 solo on the run. A familiar picture was tackles. He also caused a fumble and one of an agile Clements sprinting recovered another. 
left and throwing to his right across "His diagnostic ability and his pur­
his body. suit were both amazing," said Par­
"I wouldn't consider Clements a seghian of Collins. "He accelerated
super passer or an outstanding run­far beyond what anyone gave him
ner," said a bewildered Bear Bryant, credit for. He was much like ourJim
"but he makes the right play at the Lynch was, always present around
right time and that makes a winner." 
the ball."
Poor Bear. No one knows beuer: he suffered through consecutive Sugar The 1973 season couldn't have 
and Orange Bowl losses to Cle-had a more exciting finale than the ments' quarterbacked teams. one-point squeaker over Alabama. Clements teamed with sticky fin-Game-breaking runs 411d catches by gered Pete Demmerle, his favorite some very unlikely people were the target, 26 times for five touchdowns difference at some crucial moments. in 1973. Demmerle, who lacked the But it was a very likely hero, Tom natural speed of a deep threat, more Clements, and an extremely stingy than made up for it with his guile and defense that calmly engineered a teamwork with Clements. perfect 11-0-0 season and Ara Par­
-"Tommy was such a squirmy seghian's final national crown. 

G W for Graduate Study: Health Services Administration 
Thinking about your future'? Consider this: 

By the year 1990, projected expenditures fo: ~ealth 
care in the United States will surpass $821 billion-an 
increase of 332% over 1980. 

This kind of growth means career opportuni~ic:s for. individuals interested in health services adminiStration. At George Washington University you can earn a Master of Health Services Administration which prepares you for responsihle positions in Health Policy and Planning, Hospital Administration, Ambulatory Care, ~ng-Term Care, Finance, Personnel Management, Matenals Management, Marketing, Health Services Research, and Health Information Systems. 
GW's graduate program in health services administration, one of the largest and most respect~d in the folation, combines a rigorous academic curnculum. wit_h a. . challenging field experience at a coort;:ratmg InStitUtiOn such as a hospital, long-term care facility or government agency. 
For more information about the program, contact: 
Dept. of Health Services Administration 
School of Government and Business 
Administration 
George Washington University 
Washington, D.C. 20052 
(202) 676-8212 



On Sale 

A musical extravaganza in Stepan Center. 
November 20. 

Tom Clements ability to run, and to lead, was a key factor in Notre Dame's National Championship team in 1973. See Tirrz Pris­ter's recollections beginning on page 12. 
Saint Mary's College Performing Arts Series O'Laughlin Auditorium 
Sunday, Bovember 18, 
1981  
General Admission  $8.00  Rossini Semiramide  
Students  $2.00  Overture • Lukas Foss Song of Songs •  
Schumann Symphony  
No. 3 in E Flat Major,  
Opus 97  

continuedfrom page 12 

Leading I 3· 7 at halftime, the Irish kicked off to the Trojans and received the return punt at their own 1 5 yard line. Moments later, Penick and the Irish executed Par­seghian's mis-direction play to per­fection. Four broken tackles and 85 yards later, Notre Dame was on their way to a 23-14 victory, ending a Trojan 23-game unbeaten streak. 
"We wete up all week and remem­bered last years 45 points by South· ern Cal and the six touchdowns by Anthony Davis," added Parseghian. 
Freshman tailback Al Hunter had returned only two kickoffs during the course ofthe season for minimal yardage. Return number three couldn't have come at a more op­portune time. Trailing 7-6 midway through the second quarter of the Sugar Bowl, Hunter took the Alabama kickoff at at the seven yard line and raced 93 yards virtually un­touched. Another of the "unlikelies" 

) 
' ­

The ~f. ··--=· , '·=-==....,...-=~-=·-=--=: '-~--=··'-==·=c =-===-o·-,=-=-=--~-==---==:=-= ~ --=­





~~c:llC3L~==========================~=e=d=n=e~s=d=a=y=,N==o=ve=m==b=e=r=l=l=,=l=9=8=1===p=a=g=e=l=l
Molarity 


Doonesbury 
.. ANO Ii'rl P/.EA'3E{) 70 fi'UOKT 70 THe 71?JJSTCES 7HJfT THIWKS llHX/1? NW QJST-CI!TTIMiMEA5/I!ES, 7llt /NVEIISfTY


Simon 
0.11. CO C JOE, 1'11 GOINl. 0 WORI< tiiiRl> fiNO COMf 'R.JIY SOCC.EI\: FOR ~Ttf MMf IN I'm. 
) 


The Daily Crossword 
©1981 by Chicagc;> Tribur.a-N.Y. News Synd. Inc. All Rights Reserved 
Wednesday's the Night for a 
COOL COORS at 
~rm~CIDrn



rn£rn 
Special all night long I 9:30-2:00 




Michael Molinelli 
29 City on the Elbe 31 Word on 
a penny 32 Table scrap 33 After novel 
or real 36 Covered with fuzz 37 Kramden's vehicle 
38 One of a mythologi· cal ennead 
40 Symbol of strength 41 Loser 
to ODE 42 Forty·­43 Promote 47 Sapid 48 Struggled 
,.

........................................................................................................................ 
~ ~  .............................•. .  ~ ~  
'  :  ND/SMC Student Players Presents:  :  ~  
' ~  :.  THE ODD COUPLE  :.  ' ~  
'  :  2nd Floor LaFortune  :  ~  
~  :  November 6, 7,13,14, 1981  :  ~  
~i  : .. 8 pm ........ Admzssion $2.00 ...................:  ~ ,. 

l ...........................................................................................................................~ 
" ' 
curve 46 Typewriter 3 English types 
composer 48 Companion 4 Tailor of Toklas 5 Boston -49 French 6 Struck sociolo· 7 Dies-gist 8 Boston -51 Past 9 Solicit 54 Voyaging 
1 0 Fly 55 Portend 
11 Henry James 56 On -with novel (with 57 Kind of "The") prot. 
12 Woody 59 Youth org. 
13 35.315 60 After cow cubic feet or chicken 

Campus 
•9:30 
a.m. -noon -alumnae show, moreau gallery, saint mary's college 

•9:30 
a.m. -noon -drawings, jack olsen, hammes gallery, saint mary's college 

•12: 
15 p.m. -seminar, "experiments on the net­work theory of immune regulation", dr. micheal j. caulfield, cleveland clinic, galvin auditorium, sponsored by department of microbiology 

•!2:15 
p.m. -mass for peace, theodore m. hes­burgh, c.s.c., president of the university of notre dame, sacred heart church, all are welcome 

•1 
. 3 p.m. -alumnae show, moreau gallery, saint mary's college 

•I 
-3 p.m. -drawings, jack olsen, hammes gallery, saint mary's college 

• 
3:30 p.m. -seminar, "rotating, stratified flow past large three-dimensional obstacles", professor micheal foster, ohio state university, 356 fitzpatrick, sponsored by department of aerospace and mechanical engineering 

•4 
p.m. lecture, "epistemic reasoning", roderick chisholm, memorial library lounge, sponsored by philosophy department 

•4 
p.m. -convocation, "the consequences of nuclear war", james e. muller, m.d., howard medi­cal school, memorial library auditorium, sponsored by college ofscience and the center for experimental learning, introduction by father hes­burgh 

•4:30 
p.m. -lecture, "representations of al­gebraic groups", b. parshall, 226 computing center and math building, sponsored by kenna lecture series in mathematics, session two 

•4:30 
p.m. -lecture, "enantioselective synthesis of amino acids by a cemetric homogeneous hydrogenation", dr. john w. scott, hoffman Iaroche, 123 nkuwland science hall, sponsored by depart­ment ofchemistry 

•7 
p.m. -lecture, "why not sexual hedonism?", rev. edward malloy, c.s.c., notre dame, hayes healy auditorium, sponsored by catholic inquiry lecture series, all are welcome 

•7, 
9, I I p.m. -film, "fuzz", engineering auditorium, sponsored by army rotc drill team, S I admission 

•8:30 
p.m. -meeting, fellowship of christian ath­letes, digger pht'lps, head basketball coach, notre dame, howard hall chapel, all arc welcome 


Television 
7:00p.m. 
7:30p.m. 
8:00p.m. 
8:30p.m. 9:00p.m. 
9:30p.m. 10:00p.m. 
10:30p.m. 
~ 


Tonight 
16 MASH 22 CBS News 28 Joker's Wild 34 The MacNeil/Lehrer Repon 46 Message For The Hour 16 Allin The Family 22 Family Feud 28 Tic Tac Dough 34 Straight Talk 46 Oral Roberts 16 Real People 
22 Mr. Merlin 

28 Greatest American Hero 
34 Mark Russell Comedy Specials 
46 Lester Sumrall Teaching 
22 WKRP In Cincinnati 
34 One Last Song On His Mountain 
46 The Renewed Mind 16 Facts Of Life 22 Nurse 28 The fall Guy 
34 The Vktnam Vt:tl·rans: A Matter Of Lift: And Death Special 
46 Today With Lester Sumrall 
16 Love, Sidney 
16 <,2uincy 
22 Shannon 
28 Dynasty 

34 Masterpiece Tht:atn· 46 Calvary Temple 46 Michiana Today 
• 






Tuesday's Solution 



Wednesday, November 11, 1981 -page 12 



Crable nearing a record 
LOMBARDI NOMINEE -Senior co-captain Bob Crable has been named one of 12 finalists for the Lom­bardi Award, given annually to the top collegiate lineman (including linebackers). The winner of the honor will be announced at the annual awards dinner in Houston, Texas on December 10. 
• Crable is on the verge ofbecoming the top tackler in Notre Dame history, his 477 career tackles standing two behind Bob Golic's 479 stops between 1975 and 1978. In the 31 games Crable has started at Notre Dame, he has led the team in tackles 29 times. BIRDS OF A FEATHER-Notre Dame starts the final three-game leg of its regular season slate on Saturday when they travel to Colorado Springs to face the Fal­cons of the U.S. Air Force Academy. Notre Dame has won all ten games in the series, which began in 1964 and has been contested annually since 1977. At this juncture, the Falcons appear on the Irish slate every season through 1990. The Irish and Falcons have shared only one common opponent thus far, Navy. The Irish whipped the Mid­shipmen 38-0 two weeks ago while the Falcons suc­cumbed 30-13 to their naval counterparts. Game time is set for 1 p.m. MST in Colorado, which is 3 p.m. in South Bend. STREAKING -Notre Dame's two decisive wins over less-than-decisive foes Navy and Georgia Tech mark the first time the Irish have won two straight games since updending Alabama (on this same weekend) and Air Force last season. In that 1980 battle with the Falcons, Phil Carter charted 181 yards in 29 trips for the after­noon. BACK ON TRACK -Not only did last year's Irish victory over Air Force mark Notre Dame's last two­gam t e winning streak, but its win over Alabama represented the last road victory on the Irish books. Following the Alabama victory, the Irish lost a road con­test at Southern Cal to close out the 1980 regular season and dropped twin decisions at Michigan and Purdue in early-season road action this year. TIGHT AS A ... -Georgia Tech's first-quarter field goal on Saturday represented the first blood drawn on the Irish during the opening 15 minutes this year. Ironi­cally, the last team to -;core on the Irish during the first period was Air Force. who tallied with a 35-yard field goal in the closing minutes ofthe first stanza last season. The Irish have allowed only 22 points in the first frame oftheir last 25 regular season affairs. Thanks to their shutout of Navy, the Irish have not had a touchdown scored upon them in eight straight quarters (since the final frame of the USC game). Air Force's defense patrol has been equally stingy, surrendering no six-pointers in the last seven quarters. Of course, that is still no where near the 23-quarter touchdown-less string that the Irish defense crafted last season. In that string, which spanned six games, Notre Dame allowed only I2 points on four field goals. Air Force finally snapped that string with a fourth-quarter touchdown. 
• 
MAKING A KIEL-ING -Sophomore quarterback Blair Kiel has tossed 529 yards worth of completions ( 32 in 64 attempts) in the last three games, o t nly two yards short of his total 1980 output. Kiel has also notched four scoring aerials and has been intercepted but once in that span. 
Were those figures projected over the entire season, 

.. ;: : 

8QIM~~d 

Sports Writer 

Kiel would own a 136.9 passing rating by NCAA stan­dards, good for 9th place nationally. The ratings are based on mathematical calculations and weightings of completion percentage, yards per attempt and touch­down pass percentage minus interception percentage (sounds like a statistics professor's delight). 
AIR DELIVERY -Notre Dame's four touchdown passes against Georgia Tech, two by Kiel and two by Tim Koegel, were the most by an Irish team in a single game since passing for five against the Yellowjackets in the 69-14 thrashing of 1977. The Irish managed only two touchdown strikes during the entire 1980 season, when Blair Kiel and Mike Courey alternated at quarter­back. 
DID YOU GET THE LICENSE NUMBER? -Freshman dynamo Joe Howard, who has gained 269 yards on 7 
Bob Crable, The AP's Midwest Defensive Player of the Week, is 
receptions this year (all in the last two games) is averag­
just two tackles {rom becoming Notre Dame's all-time leading
ing a phenomenal 38.4 yards-per-catch. Should Howard 
tackler. (Photo by Tonia Hap)
keep up that mean pace and catch a minimum of 20 passes this season, he would eclipse the single-season yards-per-catch standard of 25.6 (27 for 690) set by Tony Hunter during his freshman campaign in 1979. 
Digger-~igns a 6-10 
On Saturday, Howard was also one scoring pass shy of Notre Dame's single game touchdown reception mark ofthree shared by six players. 
center in Ken Barlow 
The 96-yard Kiel-to-Howard combination against been looking for."
Georgia Tech was only the second pass of 90 yards or 
By SKIP DESJARDIN 
Barlow averaged 1~ points and I 0 more in Irish history. The only other 90-plus yarder, 
AssociateSports Editor 
rebounds a game last year for Cat­yard John Huarte-to-Nick Eddy combination against and until Saturday the longest in Irish history, was a 91­hedral, and is expected to be a topDigger Phelps added another 
Pittsburgh in 1964. candidate, along with Price, for In­
thoroughbred to his growing stable QUEEN BEE -Yellow jacket running back Robert 
diana's coveted "Mr. Basketball"
of recruits yesterday. The acquisi­Lavette wrote himself into both the Georgia Tech and 
award.
tion this time around was Ken Bar­Irish record books on Saturday as well. Lavette caught a 6-10 d He is the third player to make a
low, center from 14 passes (50 yards) to shatter Notre Dame's mark for 
commitment to Notre Dame this fall. 
Indianapolis Cathedral High School. most receptions in a game by an opposing player. The In addition to ht· and Price, Phelps
Barlow signed an institutional letter old record had been 11 by Purdue's Bob Dillingham in has signed Jim Dolan, a 6-8 forward
of intent to attend Notre Dame yes­
1968. from Thorn's River, N.J.
terday.Lavette also equaled his own team's record for most "Our recruiting is right on
"We are very happy to have Kt:n­
catches in a single game. nv to Dame," schedule," Phelps said. "We have
coming Notre said BIG BUCKS-The Observer-Landon Turner three top-notch players already. We 
Phelps. "He is a superb player who Fund surpassed the $2,000 mark Monday night with want to get tlve before we are
could play on any front line in the the addition of a generous ll500 check from the Notre through, so wt:'re looking for anoth­
country. We think he's going to do Dame Chapter of the Knights of Columbus, and $300 er forward, and possibly a guard­
some great things here at Notre collected from the 600 or so students in attendance at 
swingman.
Dame." Monday's Bobby Knight-Digger Phelps Tonguefest. "I really couldn't be happier. We
Barlow is the second Indiana Donations will continue to be accepted at The Ob­have three quality kids who are
native to sign with Phelps this seroer offices through December I when the Irish face going to make big contributions in 
season. Joe Price, a 6-5 guard from 
the Hoosiers in Bloomington. the years ahead, and they are the
Marion, signed a letter of intent ear­HOOP REUNION -While Orlando Woolridge was kind of people we want at Notre
lier this fall. The two will be the tirst recovering from writer's cramp after signing a tlve-year, Dame."
Hoosiers to play for Phelps since S1. t 5 million pact with the Chicago Bulls over the Barlow is mentioned on a number
South Bend's Dave Kuzmicz was weekend, ex-Irish teammates Kelly Tripucka and Tracy of All-America prep squads, and
here from 1974-77. Jackson were staging a court reunion in Detroit, where received high honorable mention
"Ken is a great athlete," Phelpsthe Pistons played host to the Celtics. Jackson chipped honors from Street and Smith's Col­
said after the signing. "He reminds 
in four points on a field goal and a pair offree throws for lege Basketball Guide. 
us a lot ofToby Knight and Orlando 
the Celtics, who romped 129-88. Tripucka won the Under NCAA regulations, players
Woolridge early in their careers. He battle ofthe graduates, however, notching 10 points on are not allowed to 'sign national let-
is going to give us the added heightthree field goals and a 4-for-4 night at the charity stripe. See BARLOW page 9
and muscle up front that we have 



1973: Ara 's bigplay team 
yards. By TIM PRISTER and displayed Clements' cool Weber's clutch catch wrapped up Sports Writer demeanor under pressure. a 24-23 victory and a season typified 
"It was third and eight on our own 
Second ofthree articles Alabama culminated an 11-0-0 year 
by the big play. Eric Penick, another To win a national title in college two yard line," said Clements. "I of Notre Dame's unlikely heroes, football, a team has to have leader­went to the sidelines expecting to ·electrified Notre Dame Stadium's ship. "I'm pleased that I was elected hear that we would run for the first capacity crowd with an 85-yard captain but I don't place any great down and if we didn't make it we'd jaunt early in the second halfagainst importance on it." punt. I didn't think Coach (Ara) Par­Southern California. Penick's run ac­
And ofcourse enthusiasm is a key seghian would make the call he did. counted for all but 3 3 of his rushing ingredient, especially for the quar­We were to fake the run up the yards for the game. In no other game 
terback. "Calmness helps me more middle to clear it out while the other of the 1973 season did Penick rush than jumping up and down. For one end broke into the open. (Robin) for 100 yards. In fact, had he carried thing, it saves a lot of wear and tear Weber ran by his man. He was the only one time against ll.S.C. for 85 on your body." secondary receiver." yards, it would have been an in­
Well then certainly tradition, "When I gave him (Clements) dividual game high. especially at a school perennially that play," recalls Parseghian, "he The tone of the game was set on favored to be among the nation's just kind ofsmiled. At least I think it the first play from scrimmage. U.S.C. elite, has to be a motivator of in­was a smile. He's almost stoic, you quarterback Pat Haden tossed a dividuals. "I wasn't concerned with know. Without a doubt, he's the best screen pass to all-world receiver 
tradition when I decided to go to performer under difficult cir­Lynn Swann. Freshmar. cornerback Notre Dame. I just wanted to come cumstances I've ever seen." Luther Bradley, who led the Irish and play and win." The real irony of the play was that secondary with six interceptions, 
Fortunately, these somewhat con­it was surprising that Weber was stripped Swann of the ball and quite troversial, out of the ordinary state­even considered to be the secon­possibly his courage with a bone ments were made by Tom Clements, dary receiver. The reception was on­shaking tackle. the junior quarterback whose final ly his second ofthe season, and good 
See CLEMENTS page 10
pass of the 1973 season against for a national title-clinching 35 



