---~--------------~--------~-------------~----­
.Flu vaccine -page 4 

VOL XVI, NO. 7 an ind~ndent student newspaper serving notre dame and saint mary's 
PSC panel decides Bailly's money-woes 
INDIANAPOUS (AP)-Investors 
may or may not be immediately. 
heartened by Northern Indiana 
Public Service Co.'s decision to 
scrap its Bailly nuclear power plant, 
but the crucial decision will be 
made by the Indiana Public Service 
Commission, industry analysts say. 
Tht.· utility announced last week it 
was abandoning the project, only I 
percent complete almost I I years 
after NIPSCO sought federal permis­
sion to build the 644-megawatt 
plant on the shore of Lake Michigan 
near Chesterton. 
Edmund A. Schroer, NIPSCO board chairman, said the utility spent about J20S million on the plant and would seck a rate incrC!asc to recover those expenditures. 
Estimated construction costs for the much delayed project had skyrocked from JIBS million to JI.8 billion. 
Because of those escalating costs, NIPSCO's move "was a good cconomiic decision at this point, but it all depends on whether the PSC and the courts, if they become In­volved, support the write-oft" through the rate structure, said An­thony D. Osbon, vice president and utility analyst at Donaldson, Lufkin, Jenrette. 
As other analysts, Osbon indi­cated he expects the PSC to support NIPSCO. "Indiana traditionally has been, a.o; far as regulation goes, a pret­ty reasonable state," he said. 
NIPSCO ha.'> not yet determined 
when it will file a rate request or for 
how much, a spokesman said Mon­
day. But when it does, consumer 
groups arc expected to argue 
strcnously that NIPSCO sharehol­
ders should bear the burden, not the 
consumers. 
"In many ways when it comes 
before the comm1ss1on, this case 
wiU break new ground in Indiana," 
said Commissioner William B. 
Powers. He predicted it may be a 
year or more before NIPSCO files its 
request. 
As for what the demise of Bailly 
means to NIPSCO stock and its costs 
of capital, early returns are mixed. 
The utility's common stock, trading 
at between JI0 and Jl 3 a share over 
the past year and just over Jll most 
of the summer on the New York 
Stock Exchange, closed at II 3/4, up 
a quarter, last Thursday, the day after 
Schroer's announcement. 
It rose another quarter Friday but 
dropped back to I 1 
Monday. 
"Clearing up the questions of whether they would build Bailly would in the longer term have a positive effect," said Arlene Barnes, vice president of research at First Boston Corp. 
Evan ). Silverstein, electric utility analyst with LF. Rothchild, Uterberg Towbin, agreed. 
"Investors were concerned the company was committed to a plan for which the costs of completion were virtually unknown," he said. 
Investors are cooling toward utiliies involved in huge construc­tion programs said an analyst at SaJomo Brothers, who asked not to be named. 
Osbon said ilfVestors like the lower cost and faster construction associated with coal-fired plants. He noted that since the accident at Three Mile Island and the dispute over the billion-dollar cleanup bill, "havinga nuclear plant seems to car­ry a great risk." 
Meeting Sunday 
CILA succeeds in community 
By BOB VONDERHEIDE 
News Staff 
It isn't really surprising that CIU., the Community for the lnternatlnaJ Lay Apostolate, Is not very concerned about members becoming apathetic. 
After all, CIU, a community ofstudents working on International issues and community service projects, offers so many ways to get involved that no one person could answer the door everytime CIU knocks with an­other opportunity. 
CILA holds Its first orientation meeting this Sunday at 6:4S p.m. in the Ubrary l.ounge, and all interested stu­dents are invited 
The organization Includes seven committees, with each involved in a different aim and focus. The 
WEDNESDAYB 

community service commit· 
um111 

rFOCUS 

tee, for example, works in the South Bend area while the education committee tries to raise students' awareness on social justice issues. 
An Orientation Weekend is already planned for Sep­tember 18-20 at nearby Camp Tamarack. The weekend's primary purpose is to explain CIU, al­though there will be time for personal retlections.,Mon­signor John Egan and Ms. Peggy Roche, both from the Center for Social and Pastoral Ministry, will be guest speakers. The cost is J7.00 and all are welcome. 
Other scheduled events include a spiritual retreat on January 29-30 and an Education Workshop In February on a topic to be chosen later. 
Meanwhile, CILA's Education Committee will start its bi-monthly discussion sessions with the first meeting next Wednesday evening at the Bullashed. The discus­sion group delves into all sorts of political, economic, and social justice Issues. "But not all in one night," laughs Education Co-Chairperson Mary Ann Fenwick. In addition, she said, a faculty member is often invited to speak on a certain topic. 
The CILA Community Service Committee continual­ly provides help to several South Bend projects such as Corvilla House, for mentally handicapped children, Portage Manor, a residential facility for the elderly, and the inner city Justice and Peace Center. Several volun­teers also visit many elderly citizens through the com­mittee's Home Visitation Program. 
CILA's Social Committee plans a Halloween Party, Thanksgiving Dinner and Mass and a Christmas Party. To support these events and other projects, the Fundraising Committee will sponsor a concession stand for a football game and a Christmas card sale. 
Keeping all these groups informed, the Communica­tion Committee sends out a newsletter on CILA's ac­tivities twice a month. 
We pray together, we party together, said Fenwick. We just try to understand what our Christian values ~re all about. 
It's an outreach, said Community Service Chairman Beth Domnick. It's going beyond myself and my sometimes narrow perceptions. It's is so easy to get to­tally involved with school work. CILA helps to get a good perspective (on all the needs in the community). 
Furthermore CILA doesn't stop when school lets out. A Summer Projects Committee sends students to do volunteer work In such places as Appalachia, Tenncsee, Mexico, or Tijuana, while finishing in time for another ~ol year's activj~ies. 
WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 2, 1981 


HPC approves resolutiOn 
By BOB VONDERHEIDE 
News Staff 
The Hall Presidents Council un­amimously approved last night's resolution calling for classes to start two days after Registration Day. Presently, classes start the day im­mediately after registration. 
Stanford Hall President Dave Loughlin brought the issue up at last week's HPC meeting, and presented the resolution last night. 
"The basic benefit to the stu­
dents," said Loughlin, "would be a 
much more positive attitude toward 
the school year. You're are so rushed 
(that first day). That one day extra 
would make a lot ofdifference." 
In his resolution,· Loughlin states that students don't have enough time to prepare their rooms, clear the hallways, buy books, and become accustomed to their new surroundings. Also, he states, stu­dents presently have little time to change their schedules before classes start. 
HPC will now take the approved resolution before the Student Senate to obtain its support. HPC President Mike Martin said he would also seek approval from the Faculty Senate. If 
all three bodies agree to the resolu­tion, Martin said, the administration would be more likely to approve the suggested change. 
In other HPC action last night: 
Pat Borchers, Housing Commis­sioner for Student Body President Don Murday, asked for an investiga­tion into rumors ofunrepaired dorm damages, for which students were biDed over the summer. 
The Freshmen Orientation Com· mittee asked each hall president to arrange some sort of event for the Freshmen Picnic this Friday from 
4:30 to 7 p.m. 
The HPC will also be looking into the possibility of kegs in hall party rooms. Further action is pending response from haJJ staffs. 
Finally, President Martin read a letter from Father John Van Wolvlear, Vice President for Student Affairs, acknowledging the change instigated by the HPC in the DuLac loft-height policy which now per­mits lofts of up to seven feet In 
, several dorms. 
W alesa,s Solidarity vows social support 
WARSAW, Poland (AP) -Lcch 
Walesa said yesterday the Com­
munist authorities are losing "social 
acceptance." He vowed on 
nationwide TV his Solidarity union 
does not want to take power, but 
assumes responsibility for the na­
tion's fate. 
WaJesa's remarks were broadcast 
by the state-run TV and radio net­
works, in a special program. Talks on 
the media access issue are to resume 
today -the same day printers in 
Rzeszow threaten a strike. 
"If there are problems we should 
sit down and talk," the mustachioed 
union leader said during the 20­
minute program which included the 
union leaders who were less con­ciliatory. "There is no time for stupid polemics, no time for accusing us of 
wan-ting to take over power," Watesa said, "because we don't want power, we want to serve the community." 
The Solidarity TV program came hours after the state-run Polish news agency PAP distributed an interview with WaJesa. 
"Things have now reached a stage 
. when the authorities are losing so­cial acceptance and social support," Walesa was quoted as saying. "This situation forces us to take upon our­selves responsibility for the fate of the nation." 
On the evening radio-TV program, Walesa said: "we don't need the access to radio and televi· sion for polemics. We need it so as to come to an understanding. We want to explain things. We are not con· 
See SOUDARITY, page 4 


News Brie.!§ 

Wednesday, September 2, 1981 -page 2
' 

c===~======~============================~
by The Observer and Thr AJJociated PreJJ 
The United Nations high commissioner for refugees praised China on Tuesday for resettling 263,000 Vietnamese refugees "In a very nice and decent way." Commissioner Poul Hartling, who 

'Finalapproval' hurtsFrese
arrived Monday in China, said the country has agreed to accept anoth­
er 10,000 Asian refugees. He said only about 1 percent ofthe refugees want to go to a third country. "It is very encouraging that China has such a humane attitude toward the.refugee problem," Hartling said. The commissioner will meet China's top leader Deng Xiaoping and Foreign Minister Huang Hua before visiting refugee resettlement 
areas in Guangxi and Guangdong provinces. -AP 

Nothing beats an understanding. This line effectively captures the current mood of the Frese vs. The Univer­sity ofNotre Dame settlement situation. 
District Court Judge Allen Sharp dismissed the c«se on August 3, 1981 and approved a private settlement which states, among other claims, that the University 

A group of 140 women who want to get more females into British politics sailed from Harwich England's east coastport yesterday for a seabound seminar and trip to Denmark to learn the secret of political success there. In Denmark, women hold I 7 percent ofthe parliamentary seats. But in Britain, there are only 19 women members ofParliament, or 2.9 percent ofthe total in the 635­seat House of Commons. Britain's prime minister -Margaret Thatcher -is a woman. The British party, which sailed on the ferry Dana Anglia, belongs to a body called the 300 Group. They are scheduled to meet with the Danish women on today. The 300 Group was formed last November with the eventual aim of getting at least 300 women elened as members of Parliament. -AP 
Sirens wailed, students donned protective hood<; and trains and subways cut their speed yesterday while 12 million Japanese practiced lifesaving procedures on the 58th anniversary of the "Great Kanto E<!rthquake." The drill is an annual event in Japan, which has millions of tremors yearly. The 1923 quake killed 140,000 in Tokyo and its environs. The government has said its earthquake safety plan, mandated by law in 1978, would mean no more than 
36.000 deaths and 63,000 injuries during a severe quake. -AP 
Ocean explorerJacques Cousteau learned to dive in a Vermont lake and has pledged SI3,500 to help protect it. At there­quest of the Connecticut River Watershed Council of Hanover, N.H., Cousteau pledged just over Sl,OOO a year for 12 years. Thomas Blanchard, a spokesman for the Cousteau Society in Norfolk, Va., said the explorer, who grew up in New York City, learned to dive in Har­vey Lake during his childhood vacations in Vermont. The Vermont Fish and Game Department asked the council to buy seven acres to conserve a brook that runs through the land to Harvey Lake and provides smelt, a major source offood for salmon and trout. -AP 
Black Panther Party leader Huey Newton was ar­rested early yesterday in an Oakland restaurant after he allegedly became drunk, insulted customers and refused to leave, police said. A man identified as Newton's bodyguard, Larry Henson, 32, also was arrested at lvey's Restaurant for allegedly brandishing a firearm and carrying a concealed gun, said Sgt. Donald Cleaves. Cleaves said New­ton, like most prisoners picked up for public drunkenness, would be released after spending four hours in city jail. Newton, 39, has been free on Sl00,000 bail while appealing sentences for his 1978 convic­tion for being an ex-felon in possession ofa gun. The case is scheduled for federal court in San Francisco on Oct. I. -AP 
,A Benton Harbor, Mich.,aluminum smelting plant that closed in 1979 will be converted to a recycling operation, reopen by mid-1982 and employ more than 100 people, officials said yester­day. Alreco Metals Co., a newly formed company, acquired the former Michigan Standard Alloys plant, according to James L. Kazelskis, who will manage the new plant. He said renovation has begun at the plant, which once employed more than 300 people. Michigan Standard closed the plant after a battle with the State Department of Natural Resources over air quality. Alreco is a wholly owned subsidiary of Reynolds Metals Co. -AP 
Building ownersshould install smoke alarms voluntarily before they are forced to by the Indiana General Assembly, the chair-' 
man ofa study committee on fire safety said Tuesday. 
State Sen. Dan Burton, R-lndianapolis, said the average smoke alarm costs between S25 and S40 and most buildings could be outfitted for less than S2,000. 
"It's my feeling that that's a very small price to pay to protect against smok inhalation." he told reporters at a Statehouse news conference. Burton said the Legislature is likely to pass a law requiring the instal­lation ofsmoke detectors in public buildings. "What I'm saying to building owners is, we would sure appreciate it ifyou would start installing smoke alarms right away," Burton said. Manhattan Fire Chief]ohn T). Fogarty and Los Angeles Fire Chief]ohn 
C. Gerard, who appeared with Burton at the news conference, criticized architects for designing buildings without regard to fire safety. 
"What do architects do for fire safety? They do damn little," Gerard 
said. 
"The major problem we have in the fire community is with ar­
chitects and engineers," Fogarty added. "Consequently, the frre 
service has to live with disaster." 
Gerard said most architects are more concerned with aesthetics, 
building a beautiful structure with elaborate landscaping and plazas 
with no regard to how a hook and ladder truck is supposed to get near 
it in case ofa fire. 
"Architect~ are artists," he said. "They're interested in the feeling of 
the building. They're making a statement for posterity." 
But once a building is built, steps must be taken to make sure it is safe. And~he chiefS say installing smoke detectors is a relatively inex­pensive way to protect lives. -AP 
Partly sunnytoday' with highs in the mid-70's. Humid and a chance ofshowers. 

shall offer Ms. Frese a full-time tenured position in the Department of English, retroactive to September J, 1980 and that this offer shall remain open until 15 days following final judicial approval of the settlement agreement. 
Ms. Frese interpreted this claim as indicating that if she accepted the tenure offer within that fifteen-day period, she would resume teaching at Notre Dame on August 25, 1981. 
After written acceptance of the tenure offer, Ms. Frese said that she contracted to buy a house in South Bend, with a closing date of August 28, J981. The mortgage company contacted the University for verification of Ms. Frese's employment, but the Univer­sity refused to verify that Ms. Frese was or would be employed by it. 
Ms. Frese claims that she then told the mortgage com­pany to contact Mr. Lawrence DiNardo, University 

Counsel, indicating that he would be able to verify her employment. She adds that the company later told her that Mr. DiNardo also refused such verification, and that on August 7, Mr. DiNardo directly told her that the defendant University was not going to do anything whatsoever promised in the settlement agreement until at least September 3, or until "all possible appeals have been exhausted." 
On August 9, Ms. Frese reportedly sent a mailgram to President Hesburgh and Provost O'Meara, reminding them of the University's promise to give her a contract upon final jru.licial approval, indicating her accep­tance of that contract, and requesting that the Univer­sity notify her a:s to what classesshe would be teaching. 
To date, Ms. Frese claims that she has received no reply from the President or from the Provost. The Ac­ting Dean of the College, she states, met with her on August 20. He agreed that it was too late for her to 

f.-The_Qbs_erYer_ 
Design Editor ........;.... Gregory A. Swiercz Design Assistants .......... Lisa S. Bontempo 
Timothy C. Neely Typesetter .......................................... Ron Joe News Editor...•....................... Mary A. Carey Copy Editor.................. , ......... Valerie Evans Sports Copy Editor..... Michael V. Ortman Typist... . .............................. Jeanine Hynes Systems • ontroL........... Bruce W. Oakley AdDestgn .............. Fran, Mary & the Gang Photographer ......................... Cheryl Ertelt 
GU<?st Appearances........ D. O'G. & Friend Max, Alfons, Multi-media Monk The DeviL passing by, had no comment 
The Obsenrer (USPS 598 920) is 
published Monday through Friday 
and on home football Saturdays, 
except during exam and vacation 
periods. The Observer is published 
by the students of Notre Dame and 
Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions 
may be purchased for $25 per year 
($15 per semester) by writing The 
Observer, P.O. Box Q, Notre 
Dame, Indiana 46556. 
The Obaerver is a member of 
The Aasoc:leted Press. All 
reproduction rights are reserved. 

Inside Wednesday 
reasonably begin classes with no preparation time, ad­ding that it was not within his power to do anything about returning her to work in a timely fashion or to offer any verification ofher employment at the Univer­
sity. Such decisions, he said, lay with his superiors. 
Ms. Frese then asked that the Court hold the Univer­
sity in contempt until "it does what it promised to do." 
In response, The University stated that it advised Ms. 
Frese that she would not return to a faculty position 
until early September. The University added that the 
settlement becomes effective upon final judicial ap­
proval, not District Court approval. 
Ms. Frese believes thatftnaljudictal approval was 
granted to the settlement following the fmal fairness 
hearing, and the dismissal of the prejudice charge 
senJoRs--t.ast chance 

Oon"t ~ORG€t youR y€.\lloook poRtllo\lt-
CAll 3557 anO ffiak€ youR c\pp01ntm€nt tooay. 
against the University. She concludes that after giving final judicial approval, the court also granted the joint motion to "dismiss with prejudice", which was ftled im­mediately upon the court's final judicial approval. This Court'sJudgment Order was entered on August 3, 
1981. 

The University maintains that final judicial ap­proval will not be granted until after September 3. Uni­versity Counsel McDevitt attributes the confusion to a difference in interpretation of the settlement agree­
ment. 

Nothing beats an understanding. 
Observer note.:_____...., 
Saint Mary's Student Government is sponsoring an Activities Night tonight in Angela Athletic Facility from 8-11 p.m. 

232-2366 

Educational Center . 
TEST PREPARATION Classes begin Sept. 6 
SPECIALISTS SINCE 1938 For lnfollllltion About Other Centers In More Than 80 Major US Cities & Abroad Outside NY State CALL TOLL FREE: 100-223-1712 

The Observer Wednesday, September 2, 1981-page 3 

6 pack 
Blatz  $2.19  
Budweiser  $2.39  
Busch  $2.39  
Falstaff  S1.99  
Hamm's  $2.09  
Michelob  $2.69  



PETRI WINES 
BURGUNDY,CHABUS,~NK 
CHABLIS, RHINE, VIN ROSE, 
3 LITER 

12 pack 6 
$4.19 _Michelob Light 
$4.59 Miller 

$4.59 Miller Lite 
S3.79 Natural Light 
$3.99 Old Milwaukee 
$5.19 Old Style $2.69 $2.39 $2.39 $2.39 $2.09 $2.29 
$5.19 $4.59 $4.59 $4.59 S3.99 $4.39 


POPOV VODKA 
1.75 Liter 

6 pack 12 pack 
pia $2.29 $4.39 Olympia Gold $2.29 $4.39 Pabst $2.29 $4.39 Schlitz S2.39 $4.59 Strohs $2.39 $4.59 Weideman $2.09 $3.99 
CASE
SOFT DRINK SECTION 
SEVEN-UP, DIET 7-UP, COKE, TAB, 
YOUR 

699 
CHOICE

PEPSI, DIET PEPSI, MOUNTAIN DEW PRICES GOOD THRU MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 7 • WHILE QUANTITIES LAST' 
I • • VISA" 
GIFT CERTIFICATES AVAILABLE • CHECK OUR IN-STORE SPECIALS DELIVERY AVAILABLE I I II JJFII ••

'•1.!!.1 
SPIRITS SUPERMARKETS: e 1621 So. Bend Avt., SOUTH BEND, 233-4603 • 6502 Gr1pe Rd., MISHAWAKA, 277-7176 • 200 N. M1in St., ELKHART, 295-6310 
• 254 Dixie Hwy. N., ROSELAND, 272-2522 • 1910 Lincolnway E., SOUTH BEND 233-8430 SPIIITS MINI MARKETS: • 1426 Miah1wakl An., 287-7744 • 4401 S. Michican, 291·2600 • 2934 E. McKinley An., 233-9466 • 1725 N. Ironwood, 272-7144 
The Observer 


Wednesday, September 2, 1981-page 4 
Using bacteria 

Va<:cine discovery may stop flu 
NEW YORK (AP) -A British research t1eam has coaxed bacteria into making a ftu vaccine by tinker­ing with the bacteria's genes, according to a report in the current issue ofthe English scientific journal 
Nature. 

The vaccine is for a type offtu not now causing disease, but the resear­chers said their work "might be the basis for producing a vaccine against a current sltrain" ofinftuenza. 
The amount of flu vaccine being made by the bacteria is only about 10 percent of what the bacteria should eventually be able to make, the researchers said. That yield would have to be increased if the vaccine were to be produced in large quantities, they said. 
Dr. Pete1r Patriarca of the Centers for Disease Control in Atlanta said it will probably be at least 10 years before the gene-splicing technique becomes cheaper than conventional means ofproducing vaccines. 
The work, done by Ingeborg Heiland and Mary-Jane Gething of the Imperital Cancer Reseach Fund in London, involved inserting anti­inftuenza ~~enes into the bacteria's genetic m~tterial. 
The technique, known as gene­splicing or genetic _engineering. has been used by others to make inter­feron, a possible anti-cancer weapon, and to make several biological substances that are dif­ficult to obtain by other means. 
A vaccine, an inert form ofa virus, sparks the body to build up its resis­tance to a disease without making the patient sick. 
It has been known that a patient's resistance to inftuenza viruses can be triggered by injecting the patient with a substance called hemag­glutinin, or HA, which is produced by ftu viruses. 
The British researchers isolated the ftu gene that controls the production of HA and inserted it in­to the bacteria's genes. The bacteria then produced HA as a byproduct of their normal growth and reproduc­tion. 
Flu vaccines are now made com­mercially by growing ftu viruses in eggs. The viruses are taken from the eggs, killed, and injected into patients. 
Between 10 and 30 days after the vaccine is given •. the patient has built up a strong resistance to the viruses and will usually not get the ftu, or will get only mild case, according to Patriarca at the Centers for Disease ControL 
. Solidarity 
continuedfrom page 1 

cerned about taking overpower. We 
want fast communications." 

Zbigniew Bujak, leadc;r of the powerful, one million-member War­saw branch ofSolidarity, challenged total state control of the media, 
The way to get 


emergency money. 

These days a trip to the college book­store can reduce your available funds to some small change. Luckily, that's about all you need to make the one phone call that.can replenish your depleted funds in a couple of hours. Here's what to do: 
1•Call home. Report the situation, and tell the folks they can get emergency cash to you fast by phone. 
I.Ask them to call Western Union's toll-free number, 800-325-6000 (in Mis­souri, 800-342-6700), anytime, day or night. They charge the money and ser­vif"'P.f~ tl} thP1r M::tsterCard* or VISAt 
\ 

card. A Western Union Charge Card Money Order, up to $1,000, will be flashed to the Western Union office or agent nearest your emergency. 
J.Pick up your money~usually within two hours-at the local Western Union office or agent. There are 8,500 nation­ally, except in Alaska. Conveniently, about 900 locations are open 24 hours. It's that easy. 
Be sure to remind your parents about our toll-free number. It's all they need to back you up at the bookstore. 
*The Mas,terCard name is owned by Interbank Card Association. tThe VISA name is owned by VISA InternationaL 
Westem Union Charge C11rd Money Order. 
saying, "The union cannot permit anybody to monopolize the mass media." 
Walesa said Poland's crippled economy and resultant shortages of food and consumer goods play a large part in the Polish crisis. 
"We have plenty on paper but in life we have less and less ... It (the population) has thousands of demands signed and nothing in the shops and life is becoming worse. We are not steering towards con­frontations but we want to dominate this disquiet." 
The union officials said the official media has painted a picture of the Soviet bloc's first independent labor union as one bent on silencing the press, closing the mines, felling the economy and seizing power. 
Garwood may receive backpay 
CHARLOTTTESVILLE, Va. (AP)­An attorney for Robert Garwood, the Marine private convicte~ ofcol­laboratin_g with the eneiny in Viet­nam, said yesterday Garwood could lose the appeal ofhis conviction and still be entitled to his back pay of ! some Sl47,000. 
"He's entitled to be paid," Char­lottesville attorney Lowe said. 
No decision on whether Garwood should get the back pay was made at the hearing at the Army Judge Adv­ocate General's School at the Uni­versity ofVirginia. 
The hearing officer's report will be considered by a Marine Corps review board and the Secretary of 
-the Navy before a final decision is made. 
Lowe said the process would take no less than eight weeks, adding "we're not at this point concerned with the timing ofthis thing." 
Lowe also said a hearing officer has been appointed to review Gar­wood's court-martial appeal, but the outcome of the appeal shouldn't af­fect the request for the back pay. 
"We have made a presentation and cetainly hope everybody along the waywill be as fair as can be ... and that Robert Garwood will obtain juStice," Lowe said 
Asked whether the back pay would be used to pay legal fees, Lowe said Garwood faces "a long course ofmedical rehabilitation that certainly can expect to be very ex­pensive." 
During the hearing. Marine Corps hearing officer Maj. Gary C. Allord submitted 426 pages of questions for Garwood to answer about things that were not clear in the trial record 
Garwood is on leave pending an appeal ofthe conviction and retains his rank and status until the appeal process is exhausted 

The Observer Wednesday, September 2, 1981-page 5 
Library facilities undergo changes 

By MARGARET FOSMOE 
News Staff 

The Notre Dame Memorial Library recently underwent a series of improvements designed to better accomodate students in their use of library facilities, according to Robert Miller, Director ofUniversity Libraries. 
The major improvement, accord­ing to Miller, was the elimination of the College Library on the second floor. Originally intended for under­graduate use, the College Library was incorporated into the Tower Library, located on the fourth to thir­teenth floors. 
Business, Art, and Music were then shifted to the second floor, where additional seating ac­comodates their wide usage. Their former place on the sixth floor
SMC nursing majors take a look inside a human skull... andfind 
provided for expansion of the Uni­
itempty. (photo by Cf?eryl Ertelt) 

versity Archives and further office space. The Archives, a separate part of the University, are the official 
/ repository for University records
Wage inequity 
and American Catholic manuscripts. In addition to these changes,
Women continue underpaid 


BACK TO SCHOOL 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Dis­
crimination does not necessarily ac­
count for the prevalent wage 
discrepancies between mc:n and 
women and there is no easy way to 
close the gap, a federal study con­
cluded yesterday. 
Working women continue to be 
paid less than working men 
"because of the subtle ways the job 
market and wage structures con­centrate women in low-paying jobs," said a 96 page report prepared for the Equal Employment Oppor­tunity Commission. 
The special National Research Council study committee that con­ducted the three-year study expressed bewilderment over how to deal with the dilemma of achiev­ing equal pay for equal worth, an issue union leaders say will dominate the labor scene in the 1980s. 
It suggested women may be partly to blame for wage discrepancies be­cause many married women enter tht.• job market only temporarily to help make ends meet and then return to the home. 
Nonetheless, the panel said, "Job segregation exists only in part be­cause ofwomen's choices." 
Although the issue ofequal pay for equal value has been bandied about for years, it only recently became a hot item when the American Federa­tion ofState, County and Municipal Employees led women employees of San jose, Calif., on a strike over wage differentials. 
The union succeeded in getting 
the San Jose City Council, on which 
women have a majority, to revise 

join the 

wage structures to compensate told during public hearings from 
female workers for unequal wages 1977 to 1980 that "there's a pink­

KEG SALE--­
earned in the past. collar jungle out there" for women. The underlying questions in most He said the report "adds a very sig­
ca OAK DAIRY PARTY STORE 
cases deal with such things as nificant step in showing us ... the way 
whether secretaries who work for a in terms of how you identify dis­
for details 684-4950 
firm provide services as valuable as crimination in the wage-setting 
those supplied by maintenance men process.... Employers, I think, can 
*cups & ice included 
or whether women who clean really take a nod from this to get 
Juniper
rooms are as valuable to hotel their houses in order. What this 
ND

management as janitors. report does is attack the premise 
Auten 
Hollyhock

]. Clay Smith, acting EEOC chair­that (only) free market forces 
man, labeled the S200,000 study "an determine wages." important milestone" in the Using Census Bureau figures for 
Stateline Rd 

agency's review of the complex 1978, the most recent year for issue, but said the findings don't which such comparisons could be necessarily reflect official EEOC made, the research council, an arm 
Michigan law prohibits advertising price 
policy. ofthe National Academy ofSciences, EEOC member Daniel Leach said found that for every dollar paid to : ND-SMC checks acceptedstudy committee members were men, women got less than 60 cents. 
• • • • • • .:::1)! 
,
• 

Ang COLLEGE OF SCIENCE STUDENT 
n-0-PR€-l.aw Soc•€tY announc€s: 
INTERESTED IN REPRESENTING 

JUOIORS, 

Y.HE College of Science on the
sophomoRes, 
Academic Council should submit 
Name and brief Statement of
~ROS_h 

Purpose before Sept. 15 to:
ORqanJzatJonal ffi€€tlnq 
W€0n€s0ay S€pt. 2. 

Student council 
7:00pm •n bs~~Y au01tomum 
c/o The Office of Dean of Science 
Rm 229 Nieuwland Science
asst. 0€an waoo1ck-P~€-law aov•so~
, 

-(jU€St Sp€ak€~----•



r. ~ 
1 I 

Notre Dame Debate Council 
compete in debate and individual speech events 
travel to other colleges blic Organizational 


Thursday, September rd 

several minor additions were made. The copy machines arc now central­ly located on the second floor of the building. Also, a New Books display Is now present In the second floor foyer. 
The improvements at the library were the result of a year-long 1979­80 study. The study documented facts concerning undergraduate use of and difficulties with the library. These facts were then compiled and improvements were made accord­ingly. 
Miller said that he "anticipates materials will be much easier to find" because of the changes. "Because the materials arc now all together, the lihrary should work much better th;m in the past...which was, after all, the original purpose of the changes." 
The improvements at Memorial 
were completed by the library statf 
over this past summer. By the time 
the changes were complete, the stalf 
had relocated over a quarter ofa mil­
lion books. 
With the improvements now complete, the University plans no further primary changes. 



WE'RE GETTIN' IN GEAR! 
The First Organizational Meeting for 
SCHOLASTIC Magazine 
will be Wednesday, Sept. 2 7:00pm 
Anyone interested in: Writing, Photography, lllustrating, Layout, BusinessAffairs, Getting your name in print, and just being part of a good, enjoyable publication, Come up 
to the Scholastic offices, Third Floor, Lafortune 
WASH. HALL AUD. 7:00p.m. 

H interested but unable to attend, call 
or call Brother Doran at 
Chuck Wood at 8624 or Clay Malaker at 3405 
1~~~--~--=---=-=----~~--~tF~----::::::::::::::::::~------------------------~==~·~-:-:'-~-~-~----------------~ 

Wednesday, September 2, 1981 -page 6
Editorials 
Whither o-c critne? 

Still no ''missile gap'' in '80s 
The headline~ reappeared on The Observer's front page Monday, and those like "Two men rob students of money at gunpoint" doubtless will not be unusual in the coming months. And until the weather gets colder, students living off campus are going to get hit, and hit hard. Horror ~torieS will abound. What can be done? 
Last year was perhaps the worst intenns ofoff-campuscrime,and.tbC parties involved agonized over a solution for months. The cieyof Bend, the local police force, the stude.nts and the University ·· . ·.. fingers in different directions, but little pmgress was made,,Ast}le year begins, we start again at square. one. 
The answer, obvio.usly, is cooperation. On. all 

proved conclusively how mucheasierthatissaid than::·cfnn.,>;'"! crying out for .increased protection frotntlle fl'.[).l.it··:e·IliSc::oVeli staffed, underpaid force involved in a tense the city. And even if patrols were increa$i!dl, s.()pli clmnot ll)e stop three youngsters from walkingtbro:ugbano·']pe1ltdooiitbd: your stereo late at night ·.,, , n;: 
Students Looking for help from the city noncommittal replies from the mayor's oiJtK;e;; :at expect from them? High um:mt)lO)•me:n(:tate living are undoubtedly the South Bend, is not really to blame f§t:.tbilt transient residents and do not Q.·.eserve t1 
Many have hoped in the lk'~-unin~''"" suggeslion that the Uni ten been proposed, and the ~~Sll:lilllty UlalJt'!lt:l ing living conditions in student areas has University! of course., has always v,vas~ed with students who do not choose toJiv<fin.its 
That leaves very few alternatives for beer out ofa k¢g, arrange their be4t'cXJJ!ll$the bers of the opposite sex in their ro<)IJili a1'ter police cannot be everywhere. at onqe, and cooperate with student groups. · 
On the other hand, there is no Jove lost betwe;en·the Bend and ND students. All students are: in the city for no more than two years, c·•CJnstantly 'd¢~~(linirit; a shambles behind. For the most part, this is an unreali$tic Bend would do well to remember that Notre Dame is the largest employer, behind Bendix, and we bring a great deal of this area, whether theY like it or not. Improved lightillg along and tighter controls on delinquent landlords are just a few of South Bend could take to improve the situation, though this seems 
~· . 
The University could do even more to help, but its hesitancy to money into off-campus housing stems ftom a dearth of im~dia1 available profit. There is not money to be made here~ only !uuneltL«rn r protected. 
That leaves the students themselves. Ourselves .. You. 

The students are in this alone, for all intents and purposes, sothey be the ones to cooperate-all apathy must go right ()UJ the willdow. year's seminars with police and ND administrators were extrem¢ly attended, and that did.not help relations with those groups, Students m""r;··~.,,.,, make every effort to get along with every one of these groups.,.-itis us to take the first step toward getting some assistance for the future. 
Students al$o must cooperate with other students. Neighborhood programs should be organized among student-leased houses il'ltu~:u ~nuro areas, such as those along South Bend Ave. and Eddy St. Stllt~ei~tlrou~~·tl'~f'J are easy marks:__ don't leave expensive stereos and t..t•·vi•''""' view, and never leave a house or apartment unlocked,· repeatedly recommended dead bolt locks last year: theii advice· 
Lastly, be careful. We are not advocating vigilant¢ groups.))(} back to a gun. And report all incidents to the police. We sincerely'·ll this semester will not be a repeat oflast year's 
• should realize they are truly on their o~ Q4.r>w.S#i·.poo~eJP~•!! 
The "window of vulnerability" is the "missile gap" of the '80s. John 
F. Kennedy campaigned in 1960 on the assertion that President Eisen­hower had allowed the Russians to surpass us in nuclear delivery sys­tems. Once Kennedy was in office, his secretary olf defense, Robert McNamara, learned there was no such Russian superiority -and, to the embarassment of the White House, openly admitted that fact. 
Twenty years later, Ronald Reagan campaigned on the as:;ertion that President Carter had allowed the Russians a lead that would give them a ''window'' ofopportunity to knock out our land-based missiles, sometime in the mid-1980s, before we could close the window with our Trident subs and MX missiles. 
The first question, of course, is this: What good would it do Russia to knock out our land missiles, so long as the airborne and submarine missiles were left to retaliate? The answer to this involves the kinds of 

hypotheses loved by war-garners. Suppose 1) that the Russians hit only our military installations with the first barrage of missiles, but 2) threatened to hit our cities if we should retaliate from airplanes or submarines, thus 3) forcing us to capitulate. 
These hypotheses themselves rest on a number of assumptions-that a first strike could be powerful and ac­curate enough to take out all our missiles, while leaving Russia an equally powerful stock of second­strike weapons. It assumes that the heavy first strike, spreading radiation from multiple points on our con­tinent, would be so accurate as to concentrate its effects, clearly marking it a "military" attack, not 
an urban one. 

It assumes that Americans, in the first shock of mass destruction, would be able to make the cool dis­tinction between kinds of nuclear at­tack and to resist the emotional urge to retaliate at whatever cost. It assumes that the Russians could make the distinction in terms clear to American leaders in this time of crisis, and that Americans would believe the Russians -believe they had the force for a second strike; believe our subs and planes could not cripple or counter that second strike; believe the Russians would refrain from the strike if we capitulated. 
Every one of these assumptions is faulty, yet every one of them must be maintained if a first -strike scenario is to make sense. Begin with the flfSt assumption, the certainty that a flfSt strike could take out our land-based missiles. A number of analysts have recently challenged the idea that missile accuracy, untested in war conditions, can be presumed great enough to knock out, in one attack, over a thousand of our hardened 

Outrider 

silos. Missiles crossing the North Pole would be subject to gravitation­al, wind and atmospheric conditions quite different from those undergone in test flights over Siberia or over the Pacific. 
Besides, even those who believe in the "window" theory say that it is opening because Russia has enough missiles, now, to throw two or three at one site. These are needed, accord­ing to tests under optimum condi­tions, to guarantee a close enough hit. But these missiles, even if launched at the same time and flying almost the same route, would under­go minute differences in pressure and in adjustments to their flight ir­regularities. Yet if they do not land simultaneously, the explosion of the first one would ward off or abort the second one's landing. Multiply these problems a thousand times, and the certitude of destroying our missile sites -and nothing else -disap­
pears. 
If that first certitude is unes­

tablished, nothing else matters in the 
chain of hypotheses; while, on the 
contrary, even if this assumption 
were granted, none of the others is 
secure. What, for instance, does 
"capitulate" mean in the war­garners' scenario? Give over our nuclear subs and airplanes? Promise never to use them? Abandon allies? Most of these acts would be con­sidered unacceptable, if not ir­relevant, even under the conditions presumed by the scenarists. 
The window of vulnerability is a myth then; just like the missile gap. Even the hard-line journal Strategic Review has admitted as much. But, so far, Secretary Weinberger ­unlike Secretary McNamara-has tried to maintain the fiction as a way of promoting ever more weaponry at ever higher costs. 
Umversal Press Syndicau 

· P.O. Box Q 
tenance money (because I have food College studellt allergies!). As you can see, if lhe
.d , . ,
pres1 ent s economtc program IS 
passed I will be out of a very cozy

supports Reagall 't . SI ua!Ion. . . . ,
studeIll aid cuts 
Perhaps It md1cates a weakness •.n Dear Editor: characterion "!Y hpart toh.ack~ept thh1s I am writing to express support for money; cant e1p t m mg t at
h President Reagan's proposed budget w en you place my nee?s (I come cuts to student aid. I attend a private fror1_1 a co.mfortable middle class liberal arts college at a cost of more family) agamst the needs of the truly 
· · h · . 

than $6,000 a year. Nearly all my 1mpovens ed and destitute of thts
· d. · school expenses are absorbed by the country, sueh mor mate generosity 
federal go.vernment -$1500 in to me on the part of the federal
· I · 

grants, $2000 in low-interest government IS ex.tre.me y Impro_per. guaranteed student loans, monthly U~fortunately, this IS not the vtew­social security checks of $256, as pmnt o~ most of my fellow student~. well as a special medical endowment Ever smce the. Reagan ec?nom1c cf $1200 (because I have a bad proposals regardmg student atd were
. back!) and $20 per week main-announced, I have listened to the 
whining and cries of outrage of my classmates. Now I realize that the 
, . . 
majonty of students do not receive 

the kind of exorbitant benefits which 
I do. Nevertheless, it seems to• me t?a.t things have really reached nd1culous propo~tions when yo.ung people are so misguided to beheve 
. . . . that It IS their nght to have the government pay for the luxury of attending high-priced private schools. To my mind, such an at­
. 

titude is morally selfish economical­
. ' ly Irresponsible, and completely
· , · . . , ~m~tcal ~o the spint of pnvate m-Jtlattve this country stands for. When R_onald Reagan attended college he d1d not receive one dollar in govern­ment aid He came from a poor fami­
· ly, but he washed dishes in his frat 
house-~--k-d------------------------4 
lifeguar' dworde stummt.ers ask a 
an cons rue Ion wor er 
and m d t h. hr h 
I amana~et o pay thistwayht ouMg . 
qUI e sure a w en r. 
Reagan received his diploma he felt a 
huge pride in his achievement and 
determination. Today, those students 
who m•"ght h h th d'l'
aves own e 1 1gence and willingness to sacrifice for their education are circumvented b a govern t h' h · aky 1
men w IC m1st en y
believes 1·t · d · ·tIS mng 1 s young peop 1e a 
favor b · d' · · t 1 fi · 
y m Jscnmma e y mancmg the1·r educ Wh t ·t · d · ·.

a11·0 n. a I IS mng IS cluttering the universities (and later the job market) with dead wei hts who would not be there if they ha~ to rely on their own resourcefulness I who! h art dl d · h
e e· e y en orse t e President's budget cuts to student aid and I think that they are a crucial step 
in teaching young Americans that the 
most important word in the English
language is responsibility_ for our­selves, our government, and our less fortunate citizens. 
Martha Coravos Assumption College Worcester, Mass. 

The Observer welcomes letters from its readers. These should be addressed to the Editorials Editor, P.O. Box Q on campus. Letters should be typed, double­spaced. and brieffor best chance of publication. We reserve rhe right to edit. 

Editorial Board and Department Managers 
Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 Editor-in·Cbief.........................................}ohn McGrath SMCExecutiveEditor .....................Macy Agnes Carey ManagingEdttor......................................Tom Jackman SMCNewsEditor ................................Kathy Domanico
"{he Observer is an independent newspaper published by the students of rhe 
Executive NewsEditor ..............................Lynne Daley PhotoEdltor..._..................................... , .......John·Mac~r
UntversJty of ~otre Dame du Lacand Saint Mary's College. It does nor necessanlv NewsEditor.............................................Tim VerceUotti
reflect the poliCies of the a~minisrrarion of either institution. The news is reponea · 
BusinessManager....................................Rich Coppola
News Editor .......................................................Kelli Flint 
as accurately and _as obJeCtively as possible. Ednonals represent rhe opinion of a 
Controller........................................................]oe Mulftur .SeniorCopy Editor........................Mary Fran Callahan
maJority of the Editonal Board. Commentaries, opinions, and letters are rhe v1ews AdvertisingManager......................................Mark Ellis of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the communltv, and SportsEditor.........................................Michael Ortman ProductionManager..............................Michael Monk the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged. 
FeaturesEditor ....................................Anthony Walton Ctrr:ulatwn Manager........................Tom MacLennan 
~--~..............~----~--------~----------.-~--..------.-------~--~-----------------------~---------------------------------------~-~----­
~~(),.tSc~==~==i=~~=S=============================W=e=d=n=es=d=~='=Se=p~te=m=b=e=r=2,=1=9=8l===P=~=e~7
br Thl' Ohrat•t•r and Tht• A.1WUu/ed Prl'f.r 

. Tryouts for the SaintMary's volleyball team con­tmuc today and nmclude tomorrow in the Angda Athletic Facility. The sessions begin at 4 p.m. All students arc encouraged to tryout. For more information contact Erin Murphy, Director of Athletics and Recreation, at 4479. -Tbe Obst>n'er 
Notre Dame's Rugby Club will hold an organiza­tional meeting tomorrow night at 7:30 p.m. in the LaFortune Ball­room. New players are encouraged to attend. For more information contact Club President Nick Colarelll at 289-3022. -The Obseroer 
Saint Mary's sports teatnSand clubs will be represented tonight at Activities Night at 8 p.m. in the Angela Athletic Facility. Coaches of the seven varsity teams will be on hand to answer questions including Ginger Oakman (tennis), Rachel Wroblewski (track and field), Scott Beisel (sofl'ball), Erin Murphy (volleyball), Mark Mamula (swimming) and Jerry Dallesio (basketball). The fen­cing team also will be en garde for an exhibition. Representatives of the gymnastics, crew and sailing clubs, held in conjunction with Notre Dame, will be on hand for demonstrations and sign-ups. In addition, all Saint Mary's students interested In forming a cross country team are a.'iked to sign-up tonight in Angela. -The Obseroer 
The ND / SMC Sailing Clubwill hold an organiza­tional meetining this evening at 6:30p.m. at the boathouse (near the beach area) on St. Joe's Lake. This meeting is for old and new members alike. The workings of the club will be explained to all potential new members and a short slide show will be presented. Membership dues will be collected from all those who wish to join for the semester. Ifit is impossible to attend, all are welcome at later weekly meetings ­same time and place. -The Obseroer 
The Ultimate Frisbee Club meets daily at 3:3o 
p.m.  on  the  Notre  Dame  Library  field.  Newcomers  arc  always  
welcome.  -The Observer  
Top  seeded John  McEnroe  fought  otr  a  

determined upset bid by unheraldedjuan Nunez ofChile and sporadic showers to capture his first-round match 6-7,6-1,6-3,6-2 yesterday in the U.S. Open tennis championships at Flushing Meadow, N.Y. Other set•dcd players who won on the first day ofthis two-week long tourna­
ment were third-seeded Ivan lcndl of Czechoslovakia, No. 4 Jimmy Connors and No. 1 1 Peter McNamara ofAustralia in the men's singles. The women's singles winners included third-seeded-Tracy Austin, No. 7 Wendy Turnbull ofAustralia and No. 12 Bettina Bunge ofWest Ger­many. -AP 
Football ticket distribution continues today. All Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students who purchased season foot­ball tickets during the summer should report to the ticket windows at Gate 3 of the Athletic and Convocation Center. Distribution resumes today with juniors and all undergraduate students in their ninth 
semester or higher. Sophomores/Graduate/Law Students -tomor­row. Freshmen -Friday. The ticket windows will be open from 8 a.m. until 5 p.m. including the noon hour. The Gate 3 doors ofthe ACC will be open at 7:30 a.m. The football ticket committee reminds students that the seats in the student section have NOT been preassigned by the Ticket Office. Therefore, if as student wishes to sit with a specific classmate, they must present their IDs together for adjacent seating. No student may present more than four IDs. Band members should check with band officials regarding ticket distribution procedures. 
Married students who purchased tickets during the summer should report to the ACC with their respective class on the scheduled day. When picking up their tickets, they must present evidence of their marital status. Any student who has not filled out a 1981 student foot­ball ticket application must have done so by 5 p.m. Monday. Since the June 21 deadline has passed, ticket availability will be on a conditional basis. -The Obseroer 
The Notre Datne swim teatns will hold or­ganizational meetings this afternoon in Room 218 of the Rockne Memorial Building. Upperclassmen will meet at 4 p.m. and upperclas­swomen will meet at 4:30 p.m. Freshmen men and freshmen women will meet at 5 p.m. -The Obseroer 
Notre Datne's fencing teatn will hold its or­ganizational meeting tomorrow at 7 p.m. in Room 411 of the Ad­ministration Building. All members of last year's varsity team should attend. For more information call Rich at 8981. -The Obseroer 
Notre Datne's wrestlingteam will hold its organiza­tional meeting on Friday in the ACC auditorium at 4:30p.m. Freshmen and other intereted students are encoraged to attend to learn more about the varsity program. For more information, call Brother Joe Bruno at 7454. -The Obseroer 
1 Sign-ups begin today for two new intramural ac­tivities -co-ree water polo and outdoor volleyball. Entries will be accepted at the NVA office in the ACC until Sept. 9. -The Obseroer 
Austin Carr, the leading scorer in Notre Dame basketball history and Patron Saint of Bookstore Basketball, has been waived by the Washington Bullets ofthe NBA. No reason was given for the move. Carr, having cleared waivers, is now free to make a deal with any NBA team. His NBA career has spanned I 0 years and four teams. ....:: The 
Obseroer 
SecondiWI 

NATlONAL LEAGUE 
bel  
w  L  
St. Louis  12  7  
Montreal  12  8  
Chicago  11  11  
New York  11  11  
x-Phlladelphla  8  13  
Pittsburgh  7  16  
Welt  
Houston  14  8  
San Francisco  13  8  
x-Los Angeles  t3  9  
Atlanta  12  10  
Cincinnati  10  11  
San Diego  6  17  
x-first half champion  

Ye-.lay'e Aeeulle 
Philadelphia 3. Atlanta 0 Montreal 4, Cincmnatl 3 Houston 3. New York 2 San Diego 3, Chicago 2 Los Angeles 3, PiHsburgh 2 San Francisco 4, St. Louis 2 
Todey'a a.m.. 
l'ct.  GB  
.632  
.600  .5  
.500  2.5  
.500  2.5  
.381  5  
3().4  7  
636  
.619  .5  
.591  1  
.545  •2  
.476  3.5  
.261  8.5  


St. Louis (Sorenson 6-5) at San Franctsco (Whitson 5-5) Philadelphia (Davis o2) at Atlanta (Boggs 3-1 0), n Montreal (lea 4-4) at Cincinnati (Seaver 9-2), n New York (Leach Q-0) at Houston (Knepper 6-3), n Chicago (Krukow 4-7) at San Diego (Welsh 5-6), n Pittsburgh (Bibby 5-3) at Los Angeles (Welch 5·5), n 
AIIIEAICAN LEAGUE 
bel  
w  L  Pet.  GB  
Detrott  14  8  .636  
Bahunore  12  9  .571  1.5  
Milwaukee  13  10  .565  1.5  
x-N-York  12  10  545  2  
Boston  11  10  .524  2.5  
Toronto  10  10  .500  3  
Cleveland  10  12  .456  4  
w...  
x-Qakland  10  9  .526  
KansasC~y  11  11  .500  .5  
California  10  10  .500  .5  
Chicago  10  11  .476  1  
Texas  9  11  .450  1.5  
Minnesota  9  14  .391  3  
SeaHie  8  1~  .364  3.5  
x-first half champions  

Ye-..y"a Aaeulle 
California 3, Boston 2 Baltimore 1, SeaHie 0 Detrott 2, Ch1cago 1 New York 11, Minnesota 6 Kansas Crty 3, Milwaukee 1 Toronto 9, Texas 3 Oal<land at Cleveland, ppd. rain 
Tocllly'a a-. California (Will 5·6) at Boston (Ojeda 3-1 ), n SeaHie (Beat11e 1-1) at Baltimore (D. Martinez IQ-4), n Oakland (Norris 9-5 and Keough 8-4) at Cleveland (Denny 5-4 and WallS 6-7). tn Detrort (Lopez 5-2) at Chicago (Trout 7-5), n New Vorl< (Guidry 9-3) at Minnesota (Jackson 2·2), n Milwaukee (Lerch 4· 7) at Kansas City (Gale 5·6), n Toronto (Berenguer 2-6) at Texas (HonoycuH 8-3), n 
BASEBALL 
..--------------------------------------------------------------------------, 
The Observer will accept classifieds Monday through Friday, 10 a.m. to 4:30p.m. However, clas­sifieds to be run in the next issue must be received by 3 p.m. the busiMss day prior to insertion. All clas­sifieds must be prepaid, either in person or through
Classifieds 
the mail. 

~--­
...................... Found in library-one ticket to a musical in One beauty of a rug tor sale, H. green­WANTED: Two GA tickets for LSU. Will Need 3 LSU GA. top$$. Call Tom 1764. Chicago; call 1602 after 9:00pm to Iden­white shag $40. Call Judi 8113, 317 [ TICKETS pay good$$. Call JeH at8862. tify. Walsh 
FOR SALE 1 STUDENT SEASON Need 4 GA lor Michigan State and Florida FOOTBALL TIX. CALL DAR 7160, BEST FROSHI METRIC CONVERTER CALC 
State. Call2269. OFFER! MORRISSEY LOAN FUND for sale-Chem 115 take note... Frank. 
Need LSU Student & GA's. Call Jack 
1173. 

Student loans $20-$200 1 per cent Inter­1228. Need two LSU GA's. Call Patly 1321. 
Q ------J

est. Due in one mbnth One day wart 
Wanted: 2 GA LSU tickets. Call 233­Open e-y class day 11:3o-t2:30 In 71 Mercury Wagon, good condition, 8764. Need 4 LSU GA's by this weekend! Call LaFortune Basement ---------·-$400. Call Rob at 234-6298 Greg at 8334 or 8311. 
FOR RENT 

I ~ERSONALS I 
Need 2 GA LSU tickets. Call Shirley at WAITERS. AUTHORS AND OTHER AR­FURNISHED 1 AND 3 BEDROOM I REALLY NEED ONLY 1 GA TICKET
FRESHMAN FIELD DAY T-SHIRTSI Buy 
1715 before 5 weekdays. ····························•····•• 
TISTS -Juniper Press. Notre Dame's APARTMENTS 5 BEDROOM HOUSE. yours during dinner ton1ght at either· 
FOR THE LSU GAME. PLEASE, JIM ABIOGENESIS DANCE COLLECTIVE. student-run publishing house, is sollcrting 234-2626. dining hall for the ridiculously low price of 3587. organizational meeting, tonrte. 7 p.m.,
Need 2 studenttix for LSU. John x3527 

manuscnpls of any kind from students. $4.00 1150'Sheg. facutly, and admimstrators lor considera­2-Story frame, 7 rooms, 1-1/2 baths. Need 6 G.A. and 1 Stud. TIX lor LSU. Call 
HAVE 2 TIX FOR LSU, FLA. STATE, SO. 
tion and possible publ1cat1on lmagme -basement. 1212 E. Madison St., $350mo. 
CHIP3123. Photo Club OrganiZational meeting 8 p.m. 
CAL GAMES. DESIRE TO TRADE FOR from the same publisher which brought Call Lois Varga, 255-7244 tonight, 115 O'Shag 
PENN STATE TIX. CALL COLLECT, you the smash best-seller Molarity: On Mega BUCKS lor 2 LSU/GA's. Call7745.
212-532-4747. /he Raed to Se/lng Out, vou too could be Furnished apt., 503 1/2 W. JeHerson. ATTENTION INNSBRUCKERS &
. . . . . ... . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . 

1nstan"y catapullad to tame and Duplex, 3 rooms. 2nd floor. gas heat tur­WILL TRADE USC TICKET FOR LSU OR IAELANDERS OF 79-60: On Sal. 9/5,
I NEED TWO GA TIX FOR USC AND 
moderate fortune. But you must act NOW n~shed. 289-6307 234-0596 Now tak1ng applications for part & full time PAY WHAT YOU ASK CALL JENNY 41-hog roast at C1ndy's 1n Fort Wayne from
WILL PAY ANYTHINGIII CALL BETH AT 42361!
-call L188 Stanczal< al 272-6690 1M­cocktail waitresses. Apply 1n person, 2-5 4507. 3-? RSVP Kathy 41-5766 or Julie 41­MEDIATELY All senous offers con­Female housemates wanted tor 915 PM, Captain Alexander's Moonraker. 5773 by Thursday. Be there, Aloha I sidered Corby. Call287-4008 Come to the side door before 4:30, ask for Desperately need 5 FLA State tix GA or
Wanted GA Tickets for lsi 3 Football Pam. Student. Jenny 41-4507. SEXIII Tomorrow and Thurs. Can 11 be
Games. Call283-7884. S&tCred Hearl Pansh on the campus has a Student housing. Umvers1ty rated supe­possible at NO? See 11 really happen 
few opentngs lor elementary level rior Complete facilities. Clean & safe. Call Wanted many LSU GA tixt Will pay N~-~-LSU-~i~;i;.~-.~k;;,·(;;;jj'[)~~-~i
Need two LSU GA's, will pay, 8564. CATECHISTS and YOUTH LEADERS 291-1405 after Sept. 1. megabucks. Call Pat at 1942. 3597. Any Off-Campus women who want to Programs run Sunday mornmg Need 4 GA. 2 student LSU tix. Pay $$$. play flag football, contact Karen or Kathy (elementary) and evening (h1gh school). If B BLOCKS TO ND ROOMS FOR 3 MATURE STUDENT NEEDED TO Will trade 2 navy GAs lor 1 Fla. St. GA at 288-0993 by Thursday.
Call Ted 8424. Interested. see Mrs Bernard at Pres· MORE STUDENTS. $500 SEMESTER & SHARE LIVING QUARTERS. ALL THE Call Colleen 34 77. 
bytery ofllce or call283·7511 SHARE OF UTILITIES. CALL 288·3942 COMFORTS OF HOME AND MORE. Needed: 2 GA's for LSU to appease irate HELPf NMd up to lllckela lor any NO FROM 5-9 PM. $150 PER MONTH TOTAL FOR CABLE USC ticket wantad, will pay mucho bucks. pme. Will pay good pr&ee. Call Mary at
father. Call Scan 1222. Welcome ND • SMC students to Fully TV, LAUNDRY, KITCHEN, STEREO, & Call Donna at6771. 4788SMC. 
Alive E xper&ence 9/7 and Genesis If 9/9 E"ic1ency apartments--I 00 00/mo Near MORE. 9 MONTH OR 1 YR LEASE. 
Need 1 student season ticket for my last year. Call Jim at287-0581 or 287-7931
For 1nfo contact Campus MiniStry OH1ce at Notre Dame and on bus line. Call 255-SIOODEPOSIT. 289-0103. 1 LSU ticket wanted Money is no obfect. ATTENTION MIKE DOROCIAK St Mary's 284-5721 8505 or 259-4629. ' Call Donna at6771. lntegrrty IS a value~ quality 1n a resident
I NEED TWO GA TIX FOR USC IIII WILL assistant, i1 is1ndeou unfortunate thatth1s 
WANTED: 4 GA tickets for LSU game.Charmmg front apt.. 1 bedroom. living LSU ticket wanted W1ll pay mega-bucks. VIrtue was secr&hcad for the sal<e of sec­PAY MEGABUCKSIII PLEASE CALL 
Call Cheri at8158. room. k1tcheneHe. stall shower. Near ND · Call Donna at6771 t&on 28 footballt&eketo. 
on NO buslone. Call291-6747 BETH AT 283-4236 

Need 3 USC GA's,top $$$. 7858. Penn St. ticket wanted Please call Donna FreshmenlllNeed a nde for two to Springsteen con.. 
on 918 in Chi. . will share expenses. Bob 
at6771. Only 3 days until FRESHMAN FIELDNeed 2 or 4 GA tix for LSU, MSU, or FSU. 
8173 DAYI

Big bucks. Call Stan, 3008. To the person 1n Prof Gaskfs 1 TT3 Wanted--2 GA LSU tickets--Call 233-. . . . . . . . .. . . .-. . . . . . . ' ... . 
WANTED: Drummer lor Rock/Dance
[F0R SALE ]

Mari<etlng class Who p!Cked up my wallet FOR SALE: 1 USC STUDENT TICKET. 8764. ALL THE DRAFT BEER YOU CAN
Band. Call Tom at1470. 

DRINK FOR $3, 9'12 WEDNESDAY
at 2:30 after class on Thursday, Aug 27: CALL VINCE 1238. 
I NEED 4 LSU GA's together or apart. or NIGHT AT IRISH COUNTRYYou and I both know how much cash was 
WANTED: 2 GA TIX TO FSU GAME Need two GA's for LSU forrich Uncle. Call 
any other GA's or student lix--3242. 

coniBlned wrth1n I prom1se you a sub­For Sale Two tickets to see Bruce ALSO, 1 STUDENT TIX. CALL VINCE Paul at1143. 
HOW MANY KRAUSENS CAN YOUstantial port1on of that money will be yours Springsteen In Chicago on Sept. 10. 
1238. 

Need 4 GA tix for Penn Slate. Call Dom, QUAFF FOR $3? ALL THE i)RAFT YOUtt you wtll heed your consctence and Make me an oHer. Call M1ke at 1180 NEED 2 GA LSU TICKETS. CALL JOHN 
3075. CAN DRINK FOR $3 TONIGHT AT IRISHreturn the wallet You have my ID so you Need a ride to Chi for Springsteen Sept. 8. 1001. 
COUNTRY. 9-t2 PM.
should have no problem If you so choose CLASSIC 1967 JEFFERSON AIRPLANE 
Will pay anything. Call John Neblo 151 ................................ 
Need 3 or4 GA tickets lor FSU game. Call to anonymously return )ustlhe empty wal­posler (wooden a&rplane w1th flowers), 28 

Alumni xt053. ITCHING FOR LSU TICKS-BUT 
collect 219-362-4292 evenings. THE GREAT EIGHT IS BACK 1111111 ~;.,SERIOUSLY NEED MANY GA'S. CALLlet I leave rt to you: il's1n your hands now x 38, Fillmore Auditorium. thick stock, about tha awesome Kam1ka.ze Party lastPlease at least return the ID. Even it I ong1nal, tull color, $6 post-pd Other San wanted: male roommate. off car•. i ;s, 1022. 
Need 2-4 G.A. L.S.U. tickets. Call dtllect Saturday night? Hope everyone had acould. I'm not aboulia pay $4 45 tor that Francisco concert' posters from 60's close to NO. Under $1 00/month. 289· 
crap atlhe d1n1ng hall Will pay $60 for two LSU GA's. MUST (318) 478-3502· (bus1ness) or (318) 477-good time. Keep your ears open lor future
1ncludmg Hendrix, Doors, Stones, Dead. Who. etc. Send $3 for color calalogue 

1916 have before Friday, Sept. 4 Call JC at 9540 (home) and ask for Joe Fournet. parties ... FSU weekend .. 
LOST. A blue-green arm chau wrthout (140 posters). refundable with order. 8446. HELP! I desperatly need oneGAticket lor
Needed desperately: Principles of seal cushiOn Last seen 1n Howard AIRPLANE. P.O. Box 27394, S.F, 94127. 
Marketing textbook. Calli 079 and ask for lhe LSUgame. Karen 41-4991. 
archway last week H found, please call Helpl Helpl Need 4 LSU GA tickets. 8085 Please help II Call Pat1400. 
Greg. 



The Observer Wednesday, September 2, 1981 -page 8 
The Pollsters' Poll 
The following poll has ·been compiled by The Observer. It takes into account positions in 14 other polls, including the Associated Press, United Press International, Sports Illustrated, Playboy and Inside Sports, among others. Teams ranked first in a poll received 20 points, 19 for second, 18 for third, etc. The number of polls ranking a team in a given position are listed in the grid below, with total points. Notre Dame opponents are 
"Everything you 

always wanted to know about sex" Engineering Auditorium ..... 
7-9-11 Sept 2,3 $1 
Sponsored by 
notRe Oame 
,..clrl<t?tlll~ (lu~ 
®rgant¢ional Sllttting

tirst 
toniglp 
&:3D 124 llau.es-Btalu 
It's not too late to subscribe 
<tt~iragn UJribtmt 

7 days a week for Fall Semester $25.20 
contact Hans Hoerdemann 402 Keenan telephone: 3340 

Team 
1. Michigan 
2. 
Oklahoma 

3. 
Notre Dame 

4. 
Alabama 


5. Southern Cal 
6. Nebraska (tie) Texas 
8. Penn State 
9. 
Pittsburgh 

10. 
UCLA 

11. 
Georgia 

12. 
North Carolina 

13. 
Ohio State 

14. 
Florida 

15. 
Mississippi St. 

16. 
Arizona State 

17. 
Washington 

18. 
Baylor 

19. 
Brigham Young 


20. 
Florida State 

21. 
Louisiana St. 


22. 
Southern Methodist 

23. 
Houston 

24. 
Stanford 


25. Miami (Fla.) 
26. 
Arkansas 

27. 
Central Michigan (tie) Iowa State 


29. Clemson
JJTinanrt QUub 1

30. Oregon 
italicized.  
1  2  3  4  5  6  7  8  
10  2  1  
1  6  3  3  1  
1  2  5  2  2  
1  3  3  1  4  
1  2  2  3  2  
2  4  3  
2  2  1  
1  2  2  
2  2  
1  
1  
2  
2  
.,  1  

9  10  11  
1  
1  
2  0  
3  1  
1  3  
1  3  
3  2  2  
1  3  2  
1  2  2  
1  2  
1  


~()-S..( {J()§r£~1 lll§t?rn.f)l£~ f)r~cllllzcltl()llcll ,..f?t?tlll~ l()lll~llt Wt?cl. St?Jlt 1 Ia()() JlFn lclf()rtullt? 13clllr()()rn ~t?w ,..t?rn~t?rs W t?l£()rnf? Slll~t?rs ~ ,..usl.:lclll§ (clll 114() 1\t?l'lll f()r rn()rf? lllf() 
12  13  14  15  16  17  18  19  20  Total  
266  
255  
234  
1  1 (  . - 224 212  
2 1 1  184 184 171  
3  155  
1  130  
2  123  
1  2  1  116  
3  1  1  2  110  
2  1  2  94  
1  2  2  2  1  66  
2  1  1  2  58  
2  3  50  
2  3  47  
1  1  2  36  
1  1  32  
2 1  3  31 29  
1  1  25  
2  2  22  
1  2  15  
14  
8  
2  8  
2  7  
5  

. Polls 

continuedfrom page 12 
been an assistant in any college, get the job done?" Athlon list the Irish No. 8, adding "New coach Gerry Faust, a genuine optomist, may be crushed at this forecast." 
Sport -"If Gerry Faust coaches as well as he recruits, Notre Dame could have itself another Frank 
1\Are YO~ Interested in Serving. on the7 
TRAFFIC APPEALS BOARD 
Pick up Applications at Student Union Sept 2. 
\ 

Leahy." Crable and Carter are among their all-Amerirans, and fullback Mark Brooks was listed as one of the Four Fabulous Freshmen. 
Sports Illustrated -"...yet another Moeller alumnus at South Bend this year, and 46-year-old rookie coach Gerry Faust doesn't intend to see his .907 winning percentage drop so much as a point." 
Football News -"Say one thing for Dan Devine...he didn't leave a bare cupboard behind...that alone should make life considerably easier or Devine's successor, Gerry Faust." Crable makes the FN frrst team, Hun­ter the third, and the pair, along with Carter, Kramer and Krimm are on the all-midwest squad. 
The Sporting News -"Faust is targeting for ...a first-place national ranking for his team. And TSN's preseason voting panel (which 
ranked the Irish second) doesn't consider that such an impossible dream." TSN rates Crable and Krimm the country's best at their positions. 
The polls of14 differentpublica­tions plus a poll combining all 14 appear on pages 8 and9. 
.............................................................. 
;suy * 
I· Observer I¥ Classifieds 
.............................................................f 
LIFE IN THE SPIRIT A sharing by members t of the Notre Dame t t Charismatjc
Prayer Group t t about what God is t t doing in the lives of t t people today Thursday September 3 'MO'·~!JbE!!~unge 


Sports Special -The Polls Wednesday, September 2, 1981 -page 9 
APToptwenly 

The Top Twenty co4lejje football teams in The Aa­IIOCI-.d "'-pr•oeuon poll, wKh first-place voles In parentheses, 1aat oeuon'a records and total polnta. Polnla bued on 20-19-18-17 etc. Notre Dame oponenta .-eh/lclzed. 
1. Mlcllig.n (31) to-2-o 1,183 2. Oklahoma (7) to-2-o 1,100 I. Nano.ne(7) 8-2-1 1,010 4 Al8bama (3) to-2-o 1,020 5. SocAhem C8l (5) 8-2·1 1,014 8. NebriUka to-2-o 788 
7. Pwln St-. (tJ to-2-o 716 8. Plttlbwgh 11-t-o 886 9. Texas 7-5-o 647 
tO. Georgia 12-o-o 624 
11. Ohio State (I) 9-3-0 594 12. NorthC.-olina 11-1.0 462 t3. UCLA 9-2.0 454 t4. Mluiaslpp4 State 9-3-0 359 15. Wuh1ngton 9-3-0 272 18. Brigham Young 12-1-0 269 17. Florida 8-4-0 288 18. Stanford 8-5-0 205 t9. Florida st-. 10.2-0 198 20. Arizona Stale 8-5-0 158 
Other feama raceMng voles, Usted alphabetically: Arkansas, Baylor, Central Mlchtgan, Clemson, Hous­ton, Iowa State. Kansas. Loulalana St-., Maryland, McNeeoe Slate. Miami (Fla.), Missouri, Oregon, Purdue, South C.-olina, Southam Methodist, South­ern M1881saippo. Tennessee. Texas A & M, Virginia Tech, Yele. 
INIIO£ SPORTS Top 20 

1 Southem Cal 
2. Nano.ne 
3. Ol<lahoma 
4. Michigan 
5. Pwln State 
6. 
Florida 

7. 
Texas 

8. 
North Carolina 

9. 
Georgia tO. UCLA 


I 11 Alabama t2. Plttlbwgh 
13. 
NebriUka 

14. 
Brigham Young 

15. 
Stanlord 

16. 
Ohio State 

17. 
Southern Methodist t8. Baylor 


!ll.~St-­
20. Arizona State 
OOAL POST Top 20 

1. Nano.ne 
2. Mlclllg.n 
3. 
Ol<lahoma 

4. 
Alabama 

5. 
UCLA 

6. 
OhloState 

7. 
Nebraat<a 


6. Southern Cal 
II. Baylor 
tO. Penn Stllltl 
11. 
Florida 

12. 
Pittsburgh t3. Southern Methodist t4. Georgia t5. Texas t6. Arizona State t7. MISSissippi State t6 NorthCarolina t9. Loulalana St.,. 


20. Brigham Young 
FOOT8AU IUUSTRATEO Top 20 

t. Mlclllg.n 
2. Texas 
3.NanD­
4. 
Ol<lahoma 

5. 
Pmaburgh 

6. 
Alabama 

7. 
Nebraat<a 


8. Penn Stllltl 
9. 
North Carolina 

10. 
SocAhem Cel tt Georgia t2. Arizona State 


13. Ohio State t4. MiallllSlPP' State t5. Southern Methodist 
16. Oregon t7. UCLA t8. Mlwnl (Fla.) 
19. Iowa State 
20. Bngham Young 
OAIIEPlANTop20 

t. Michigan 
2. Ol<lahoma 
3.Nano­
4. 
Texas 

5. 
Nebraska 

6. 
Alabama 

7. 
UCLA 

8. 
Pittsburgh 

9. 
Arizona State 


tO. PennSt-. tt. Southern Methodist t2. SocAhem Cal t3. Ohio State t4. Loulalana St-. t5. NorthC.-olina t6. Misalaall)ln State t7. Baylor t8. Stanlord t9. Clemson 
20. lowaState 
FOOT8AU ROUNDUP Top 20 

t. Alabama 
2. 
Oklahoma 

3. 
Texas 


4.Nano­
5. Pittsburgh 8. SocAhem C8l 
7. Rotlda sr.. 
8. Brigham Young 
9. Nebraal<a 
10. Mlclllg.n 
11. 
North C.-olina 

12. 
Baylor t3. C..al Michigan t4. Pwllrsr.t8 t5. W-.gton 


18. lliMml (Ra) 
17. 
Florida tl. Clemeon 

18. 
Ohio State 


20. UCLA 
UPITop20 THE IPOA11NQ NEWS Top 20 
The Top Twanty college football teams In The (1st place votealn parenthesis) Unllfld "'-lntem..,_ ~season poll, w~h firal place voles In parenthesis, lall season's records and 1. Mlclllg.n {30) total points. Notre Dame opponents arehllclzed. 2. Nano.ne(tl) 
1. Mlcllig.n {22) to-2-o 2. Oklahoma (3) 10.2-o 3. Alabama (3) 10.2-o 
... Nano.ne(l) 8-2-1 5. Southem Cel (2) 8-2-1 6. Nebraal<a to-2-o 7. Pwln sr..{2) to-2-o 8. Georgie (4) 12-o-o 9. Pittsburgh (1) 11-t-o 
10. Texas 7-5-o 11. ONoS1111e 9-3-0 12. UCLA 9-2-o 
13. 
Florlda St-. to-2-o 

14. 
North Carolina 11-1-0 

15. 
Mississippi State 9-3-0 16. Florida 8-4-o 17. Washington 9-3-0 18. Houston 7-5-0 


19. Brigham Young 12-t-o 20 Baylor 10.2-o 
SPORTS ILLUSTRATED Top 20 
1. Mlclllg.n 
2. Texae 
3. Southem Cal 
4. Oklahoma 
5. Nano.ne 
6. Penn$~-. 
7. Nebraal<a 8. Al8bama 
9. UCLA 
10. North C.-otina 11.Georgie 
12. Plttsbwgh 
t3. Florida 
14. 
Ohio State 

15. 
Washington t6. Miaaiss/;lpl State 


17. Stanford t8. Brigham Young 
19. Lou/a/ana St-. 
20. Baylor 
STREET a SMITH'S Top 15 
1. 
Michigan 

2. 
Southem Cal 


3. NanO.... 
4. 
MiaaissiPIJI State 

5. 
Ol<tahoma 

6. 
Alabama 

7. 
Pittsburgh 

8. 
North Carolina 

9. 
Texas 

10. 
Georgia 

11. 
UCLA 


12. Nebrul<a 
13. Penn St.,. 
14. 
Washington 

15. 
Ohio State 



3. Southem Cal (13) 574 4. Oklahoma (14) 512 5. Alabama ( t9) 504 6. Nebraal<a (2) 411 7. Georgia (7) 430 6. Texas(!) 359 9. Penn St.,. (2) 320 10. UCLA 275 11. Pittsburgh (4) 272 12. Florida 213 13. Ohio State 208 14. Arizona State (2) 125 15. Mississippi State 123 16. North C.-olina 109 17. Mlwnl (Ra.) 
91 t8. Rotlda Stllltl 62 t9. Clemson 52 20. Baylor 50 
44 Others receiving votes (listed alphabetically): 
30 Arkansas, Brigham Young, Houston, Iowa State, Louisiana Stllltl, Miaaourl, Purdue, San Jose State, Southern Methodist, Stanford, Tennessee, Washiag­
ton. 
ATHLONTop20 

I. Michigan 
2. 
Ol<lahoma 

3. 
Alabama 

4. 
Georgia 


5. Southem Cal 
6. Ohio State 
7. Florida 
8. 
NolreD­

9. 
Texas 

1
0. Penn Stille 

11. 
North Carolina 

12. 
Nebraska 

13. 
Pittsburgh 

14. 
Washington 

15. 
Louisiana State 

16. 
Flotlcla Slate 

17. 
Houston 

18. 
Baylor 

19. 
Stanford 

20. 
Arl<ansas 


FOOT8ALL NEWS Top 20 (Point totals listed) \ 1. Oklahoma 370 
2. Michigan 388 3. NanD-. 3411 4. Alabama 324 5. Nebraska 298 
6. Southem Cal 280 7. Texas 270 
8. Penn St.,. 220 
9. UCLA 218 
10. Ohio State 
Student Players 
announces open auditions for its production of 
~ 
THE ODD COUPLE 
to be performed Oct. 30 & 31 & Nov. 6 & 
Auditions will be held in Chautauqua (LaFortune Ballroom 2nd Floor ) 
Tues., Sept 1 at 7 pm & 
Wed., Sept 2 at 8:45 pm 
Also: a production meeting for all interested will be held at 6:30 in Chautauqua on Sun. Sept. 6 
11. Pittsburgh  
12. Arizona State  176  
13. Mississippi State  118  
14. Georgia  116  
15. NorthCarotina  108  
16. Southam Methodist  88  
17. Stanford  64  
18. Mlwnl(Ra.)  62  
19. Houston  29  
20. Loulalana Stille  28  

Hononllle llenllon -Arkansas, Baylor, Clem­son, Florida, Florida State, Iowa State, Misalsalppi, Purdue, Tennessee. Virginia Tach and Washington. 
PLAYIIOYTop20 (predicted records listed) 
1. Mlclllg.n to-t 
2. Southam Ctll 10.1 3. Oklahoma 9-2 4. Aorlda 9-2 5. Houston 9-2 6. Alabama 9-2 
7. Arizona State 9-2 8. Baylor 9-2 9. Nebraska 9-2 

1 0. North Carolina 9-2 11. UCLA 8-3 
12. Penn Stllltl 7-4 13. Texas 8-3 
14. NanD-. w 15. Pmaburgh 8-3 
16. 
Loulalana State 8-3 

17. 
Brigham Young 11-1 18. Oregon 8-3 


19. 
Iowa State 8-3 

20. 
Miaalsaippi State 8-3 


.._.,..III'Mkttrouglla: Ohio State (7-4), Clem­son (7-3), Virginia Tach (8-3), Minneaota (7-4). Ml11m/, Fla. (7-4), Kansae (7-4). Oklahoma State (7­4). 
SPOATTop18 

1. Michigan 
2. 
Oklahoma 

3. 
Alabama 

4. 
Penn State 


5. NotreD­
6. 
Nebraska 

7. 
Washington 

8. 
Arl<ansas 

9. 
UCLA 

10. 
Georgia 

11. 
Pittsburgh 

12. 
Texas 

13. 
Florida 


14. Southem Cal 
15. 
Lou/slana State 

16. 
Ohio State 


NFL teams cutdown rosters 
By LARRY SIDDONS 
Associated Press 
National Football League teams put their rosters Into final form yes­terday for the opening of the 1981 season, with Pittsburgh Steelers kicker Matt Bahr and Houston Oilers receiver Rich Caster topping the list ofcuts. 
Also cut were Mike Thomas, a 1 ,000-yard rusher In 1976, and Mike Fuller, starting safety for the ·past seven years, by the San Diego Char­gers. 
Meanwhile, the injured reserved ranks swelled as teams got down to the 45-player limit. Among the injured reserves were linebacker Ed Simonin! of the Baltimore Colts and quarterback Gi1ford Nielson of the Houston Oilers. 
Also cut by the Steelers was wide receiver Johnnie Dlrden, who went from driving a cement truck to a spot on the Houston roster three years ago. He had since been cut by the Oilers and Kansas City of the NFL, as well as Winnipeg of the Canadian Football League. 
WSND~~ 
NEEDS YOUI 
Interviews for Am, Fm, News, Spotts, Production, PR, Engineering, and Sales. 
No experience required! 
TONIGHT 6:30-11 
ph. 7342 or 7425
O'Shag 
for details 


STANFORD HALL WELCOMES 
Robert Anton ides Adrian Arzola 
Joseph Bars 
Paul Bass 
Thomas Bayer Eugene Boes Robert Burke David Carlson Benjamin Chun Paul Clements James Clevenger Peter Cullinan George Devenny Stephen Diviny Patrick Dodd Matthew Earley Daniel Egan Patrick Fleming 
ITS 
Kenneth Frysztiak AndrewGan Michael Gann David Garcia William Goslee Peeter Grenier 
Richard Herdegen 
Dennis Hill Thomas Holubeck 
Ronald Jones 
Christopher keller 
Kirk Kimler 
Dean Kniss 
Paul Kompare 
Ronald Libby Christopher Lillie John Logan 

FRESHMEN 
John Lucas Joseph Lynch Robert Magill John Markey John Marske William Martin Eric Martinez Christopher Masi Gerard McNulty Douglas Mieritz David Miles Shawn Maloney David Montoya William Murphy Kerry Nakao Lance Massaretti Joseph Peffen 

Robert Prew Tim Ravenscroft Joseph Roddy Mike Rottman Neal Ryan Theodore Sarphie Keith Sawayda Peter Sawin Kevin Sherman 
'John Sisto Christopher Soha Michael Stuart Mark Stubler 
G. Vanflandern Christopher Vargas Mark Worschen Kevin Yoder 
.. 
' 

The Observer -Sports Wednesday, September 2, 1981-page 10 


Get a S2q_rebate
ont••e
Tl-59Programmable. 
Even without the $20 rebate, the TI-59 is special-it's our most powerful programmable, and we've never offered it at a lower price. 
The TI-59 gives you up to 960 program steps, or up to 100 memories, plus magnetic card read/write capability. You can also slip in one ofTI's Solid State Software™ modules and success­fully attack complex engineering, business, statistical and scientific problems. And by adding the optional PC-lOOC printer, you can record your calculations. 
So ifyou like the idea of having real programmable power, take us up on our rebate offer. Buy a TI-59 now, and fill out the coupon below. The offer ends Dec. 31, 198W}~:;. 
~I 
f-'1981 Tex.a.<; Instruments Incurporatf'rl 
I bought my TI-59 Programmable at 
(store name):..,......,.,..,--~....,--:--­and have attached the dated sales 
• receipt and completed customer infor­mation card (packed in box). My TI-59 Serial No. is (from back of calculator). Please send my $20 rebate check to: 
ADDRESS-----------­
CITY______ 
Send to: Texas Instruments Tl-59 Rebate Offer. 
P. 0. Box 725 Dept. 59. Lubbock, Texas 79491. 
:\OTE: Proof ufpurt·ha.'W must bt> datt·d btot\\'l'l•n August 1. 1981 anti IJl·t.·l·mbt>r 31. 1981. (lfft:or \"oi<l whl't"t' pr11hibitt•<l. ()fft'r g•tod uroly in U.S.A. Rl·batf:' applit's to purrhasl·s nfTI-•)~ Programmablt> unlv. Items must bt-postmarkt'd by .January J;). 1982. Allow 30 days for dl•livtory. Limit onto JWr ptorson:addrf!ss. 
TEXAS INSTRUMENTS 
INCORPORATED 
continuedfrom page 12 

The other guard spot will be oc­cupied by Mike Shiner, a starting tackle on the left side last year. 
Shiner switched spots with Tom 
Thayer, who now moves to left 
tackle after starting six games at 
right guard a year ago. 

"The swit<:h has worked out 
wei~" says Shiner. "I'm a little quick­
er that Tom and can get out on 
sweeps. I'm not as strong as he is. 
He's a better base blocker which 
better suits him to tackle. 

"I was hesit:mt about the move in 
the spring," he continues, "but now I 
see that it was the best move to 
make. I love it. I'm glad I made the 
switch." 

Pozderac, meanwhile, will man 
the same right tackle spot he oc­
cupied a year ago. A starter in all 12 
games in 1980, Pozderac will join 
with Shiner to give the Irish offense a 
rather imposing set of blockers on 
the right side. 

Of the five starters, only Fischer has yet to earn a varsity monogram. Ellis, Thayer and Shiner each have one, while Pozderac has earned a pair. 
"It's true that our starters are inex­perienced at their positions," says Notre Dame offensive line coachJim Higgins. "It's also true that we put in a whole new offensive system, which requires more teaching time. But I think the switches we made will make us a stronger team. They suit the talents of the people we moved." 
According to head offensive line coach Tom Backhus, most offensive linemen are not exceptional ath­letes. "Exceptional athletes who are big enough are put on the defensive line," he says. 
Obviously, then, the moves were made to give the Irish offensive wall, as a whole, the combination of qualities it couldn't get from the in· dividuals which make it up. 
"Randy Ellis is extremely smart, and has good techniques," says Hig­
• .. Line 
gins, coacb of guards and centers. "He needs to work on improving his strength. 
"Mike Shiner also needs to work on improving his strength," says Hig­gins, "but he is extremely mobile for a big man. He's very aggressive and he blocks well on the sweep. We do a lot ofpulling with our guards, and we need somebody who can get out and run, who can go find a lineback­er and block him in the open field. That's not as easy to do as it sounds." 
Mark Fischer, according to Hig­gins, the former offensive line coach at Moeller High School, has the body ofa center. 
"A center has to have a certain kind of body, a certain body mold. He has to be able to squat down with his feet paralle~ snap the ball and block. We felt Mark could do that. He has good, quick feet, he's ex­tremely hardworking, very tena­cious. Even when you beat him he doesn't quit." 
Fischer's current weight of 245­pounds is some 25-pounds heavier than his listed weight a year ago. The Irish coaches would like to see that weight up near 255-pounds next year, which would serve as an ad­vantage when trying to block generally lighter defensive linemen. 
The tackles -Pozderac and Thayer -both have "good tough­ness," says Backhus, something they will need when the Irish are in a ball control-type offense. 
"Tom Thayer likes to compete, he thinks tough," says Backhus. "He's a fme leader for our offensive line. He's solid and a hard worker. The reason we switched him to tackle is because he's stronger than Shiner, and Shiner is more mobile, can run faster." 
"Pozoerac also has good tough­ness," says Backhus, the frrst prep all­America Gerry Faust ever had at Moeller. "He has excellent natural strength and size, and a good under­standing of the game. He also is an excellent pass protector. Because of his size and range, he is a very solid tackle." 
The only senior among the five starters is Pozderac. Ellis, Fischer, Thayer and Shiner are all juniors, a fact that may be ofsome comfort to Irish fans already looking ahead to Gerry Faust's second season in 1982. 
As the elder statesman of the group, Pozderac has tried to occupy a leadership role, much had John Scully did a year ago. "It's been hard to accept it," says Pozderac of his seniority. "But I've tried to be a leader at times, mostly by keeping them working hard There are so many extra things that you can get away with not doing that we're trying to do, like staying on yourfeet and getting the second and third blocks. 
IRISH ITEMS -Senior Tony Bel­den has been named special teams captain...Phil Carter and Harry Oliver were back on Cartier practic­ing yesterday, seemingly recovered from minor injuries...Everyone who's anyone in college football circles knows ofGerry Faust by new, right? Wrong. His subscription to Football News is addressed "Mr. Gary Faust, Head Football Coach"...The September issue of TODAY in Michlana features a cover photo ofthe stadium's student 11ection on a sunny Saturday in the fall and inside, a feature on "The Ever-Faithful Fans of Notre Dame" plus a sidebar on Faust, "Very Ger­ry"...With football ticket distribu­tion beginning yesterday rooming, Faust was on hand to greet his team's most eager fans. At 7:15 am. (the ticket windows didn't open until 8 a.m.) he was outside Gate 3 of the ACC and spent the next half hour speaking with each of li. c 150 early­bird seniors, eciall'· those who had been camp~d Ol' >r over 12 
hours. 

The Obserwr_-~~~---·~..~------=-------­-------------=---=-----==-----====---=-=----·-------------==­
T0 da~============::;:::W=e=d=n~e;::sd=a=y='=S=ep=t=e=m=b=e=r=2=,=1=9=8=l==p=a=g=e=l:::::tl 
Molarity 
Doonesbury 

The Daily Crossword 

1$ WILL. 51VDY 'F/I.J-15 TJJAT I-IA.V£ J.fA.D HI'JJUH£1-.TT)J. AFFECT ONTH£' ~IAL. H0~£:5 ANP ATTITIJ>E5 OF OUR SOC-16/Y... H£FrE.'~ OVP. FIR~T F"!L./'1 ... 

HIS 


Michael Molinelli 
Campus
YA KANUTE::' youN5H6UN' 6KIP Yc:l{ :DINNYA ON AccODN/ 
•12: I 5 p.m. -lecture, hormonal control of
OV fOOOTB-r'itLL 
ovarian development in mosquitoes, dr. morton s. fuchs, 278 galvin. 
•7,9, 
11 p.m. -film, everything you always wanted to know about sex, sept. 2·3, eng. aud., ad· mission U, sponsored by n.d. marketing club. 

•7 
p.m. -n.d. pre-law society presents an or· ganizational meeting for juniors, sophs, and frosh, guest speaker asst. deanwaddick lib. aud. 

•7 
p.m. -film club organizational meeting, 114 o'shag. 

•7 
p.m. -abiogenesis dance collective organiza· tiona! meeting, 115 o'shag. 

•7:30 
p.m. transcendental meditation program, 105 o'shag, sponsored by students' international meditation society. 

•s 
p.m. -photo club organizational mt•eting, 1 1 s o'shag. 

•8 
p.m. -smc activities night, angc:Ia athleti<.· facility. 


Television Today 



12:00p.m. 16 28 46 
12:30p.m. 22 1:00p.m. 16 


•o.t<... '-? 
1:30p.m. 
2:00p.m. 
2:30p.m. 
3:00p.m. 
3:30p.m. 
4:00p.m.

ACROSS 47 Food dish 26 Fox or dogWorking 49 Dumas' 27 Suffered group group 28 Existed 
5 Strategy 56 Gymnast 29 The past: 
4:30p.m.

game 
Korbut abbr. 10 Men-only 57 Up-front 30 Holy one: affair 
monies abbr. 
14 Medley 
58 Substantive 31 Euphemism15 Shaping 59 Topsoil 32 Diminutive 
S:OOp.m.

tool 60 Pig pens suffix 16 Cultivate 61 Malacca 33 China etc. 17 Rancor 
62 Camera need 34 Argot
18 Here and 
63 Rich cake 35 Woollyone
there S:30 p.m.
64 Grafted: 37 Suppose
19-Ben 
her. 38 DA's need Adhem 
42 Lambastes 20 Solzhenl· 
DOWN 43 Obese 
tsyn work, 
1 -dancer 44 Coral 
for short 6:00p.m.
2 Aida island 
23 Slate 

3 "Death on 45 "Daphnis 24 Pithy the-" and-" 25 News bit 4 Gilding 46 Heart or 27 Loathe material kidney 30 Short· 5 Potter's 47 Trapshoot· 6:30p.m.billed needs ing rail 6 Garb 48 Author 31 Fraud 7 Harrow's Hermann 
7:00p.m.

33-in the rival 50 Forest nuts hole 8 Close for animal 
36 William 9 Adem's son food Gibson 10 Less fresh 51 "Do­play 11 Leg bone others ... " 
39 Devour 12 On high 52 Fuss 7:30p.m.40 Evident 13 Mucilagi· 53 Relating to 41 Climbing nous the dawn 
8:00p.m.

plant 21 Target 54 Litter's 
42 Mentioned 22 Act the ham smallest 
43 Sanction 25 Hawkeye 55 Snicker­
44 Oak fruit state 
8:30p.m. 
:18 
46 22 46 16 22 28 46 46 
16 
Zl 
28 46 
22 28 46 
16 22 46 
16 22 28 46 
16 22 28 
· 16 22 28 46 
16 22 28 46 
16 28 
16 22 28 46 
46 
16 28 46 

Days ofOur Uv<:s All My Chlldr<:n Today with l.<:ster Sumrall As the World Turns Another World 
~UkroUvc 
Ughtll: Uvely Search for Tomorrow L<:ster Sumrall Teaching Series Texas The Guiding Ugh! General Hospital Tennessee Tuxedo Tom &Jerry 
Bugs Bunny CBS Afternoon Movie Edge of Night BuUwinkle 
Woody Woodpecker Hour Magazine Rocky & His Friends 
GIUigan's Island Gomer Pyle Camp Wilderness 
Bewitched Andy Griffith HoUywood Squares Cartoon Festival with Tom &Jerry 
Brady Bunch Happy Days Again Joker's Wild 
NBC Nightly News CBS News ABC's World News Tonight Timmie & Lassie 
NewsCenter 16 22 Eyewitness News Newswatch 28 
Jim Bakker 
M·A·S..fl Tic Tac Dough 
Real People The Memory of Eva Ryker Greatest Amc:rkan Hero Message: for the: Hour 
Pauern for IJving 
DUfrent Strokes 
Vegas 

l.<:ster Sumr ..J Teaching Series 
16 -Facts of Ute 46 IJght & Uvcly 
specials all niKht prizes for best beach attire open W ed.-Sat. / 9:30-2:00 1 AT SENIOR BAR Friday, Sept. 4 9:30-2:00  9:00p.m. !O:OOp.m. 10:30p.m. ll:OOp.m. 11:30p.m.  16 28 46 16 22 28 46 16 22 28 46 22 28 46 16  Quinq Dynasty Today with l.<:ster Sumrall NewsCenter 16 22 Eyewitness News Newswatch 28 Christ is the Answer (Calvary Temple) Tonight Show U.S. Open Tennis ABC News Night line Michlana Today CBS Late Movie Love Boat Praise the Lord Tomorrow Coast to Coast  


~--­

Wednesday, September 2, 1981 -page 12 
Irish close 
Pollsters pick Michigan 
By KELLY SULLIVAN higher than I Oth in the AP tackle Tim Marshall and cornerback Sports Writer (Coaches) or UPI (SportWriters) JohnKrimm. 
tabulations this season. Game Plan -"...'tis the typical ...When you think about it, there At best, the predictions have been rugged schedule the Irish must face are really not that many times that on target only four times in the past this season...Upon that hinges Notre 
a pre-season national champion 
dozen years, so it's debatable how Dame's national championship ends up actually wearing that title. much stock a reader should take in aspirations in their first year under It's very bard to live up to them. But keeping in mind that the Gerry Faust...otherwise, the Fighting everyone's expectations. Ifwe work winning ofa national championship Irish have everything it takes to 
bard maybe we can become one of depends on the pollsters who have finish numb<~r one in the country." 
the exceptions. 
the final say in January, the weekly Crable made their first team, and 
Bo Schembechler listings add interest to the title quest receiver Tony Hunter, and tackles 
Head Foootball Coach and do inform the average sports fan Phil Pozderac and Pat Kramer 
University of Michigan who the country's elite are. received honorable mention votes. 
In this year's publications, the Athlon -A bit more skeptical 
Not until last year did a same eight schools occupy about Faust's first go-round in the Schembechler-coached Michigan everyone's 1981 Top 20, while Ohio college ranks..."...the bottom line is squad ever finish its season with a State appears in 13 of 14 major reached: Can a man who has never win, and not since 1948 has a Wol­rankings. coached at any level above high verine team finished its season atop Notre Dame fared extremely well school, a man who has never even the rankings, but nearly every col­in rookie Gerry Faust's first col­
See POLLS, page S 

lege coach, sportswriter or broad­legiate season. The Irish were caster has picked 8o's troops to picked as high as No. 1 (Game Plan) succeed Georgia as this year's na­and as low as 14th (Playboy), but tional champion. generally are positioned somewhere 
What exactly are the polls an in­in the first five and perhaps would dication of? That depends on have been tapped higher by some 
Irish have television trouble whether a vo1e was cast on the basis writers if Faust had a year in South of a look back or a look ahead. Bend already under his belt. Coaches -Schembechler for in­Here's a look at what some are stance -tend to view the rankings saying about the Irish: co~~DG~~ F~::t !~~~~e~~d~Y~.fe; rr:~~:hb!~i~~~~ m;:::::'::: :::::':;::::;::::::::::ri:;::m;;::::::tt@l:lil:U&l.liilill~r~@Iit,ltrti\\11~m:: as an assessment ofthe past season's Street A Smith's-"...one of the this weekend. If, of course, there were still any doub-
BiD Marquard 
performance taking into account hottest prospects for the national ters. returning talent, and insist there's no championship...the talent pool at After Saturday's two-hour scrimmage, during most of Sports Writer real1 way to predict how well any South Bend is qualitative and which rain threatened, Faust gathered his players to­club will fare once the season is un­deep...everything points to an in­gether for a brief talk and prayer. As the skies became Irish Items derway. Georgia, for example, tensely interesting and rewarding even more menacing, each of the assistant coaches missed everyone's pre-season top season for the Irish." S&S's bills the made comments and suggestions about the workout. slot (following the Series game) for a college football 
ten a year ago due to a lackluster per­clash with Michigan as college foot­Finally, as Faust began to speak, rain started to fall. telecast. Yet since Notre Dame's stadium doesn't have 
formance in 1979. ball's "Colossal Bowl." They named "Gee, I wish tillis would hold offfor just a few seconds," lights, the chances are slim that ABC can broadcast that 
But some of the so-called experts linebacker Bob Crable and place­remarked the Irish coach with an eye to the clouds. At game. toss a squad's record from the pre­kicker Harry Oliver to their all­that, the rain stopped, Faust finished his talk and the As for the Michigan game, Bernstein said that ABC vious full aside in their evaluations, America squad and picked an team said a briefprayer. And just as the players reached "was obviously looking at it" but that a decision would again evidenced by the fact that the all-Midwest team that included run­the back door of the ACC en route to the lockerroom, probably not be made until the Monday prior to the Bulldogs, 11-0 in 1980, are listed no ning back Phil Carter, Oliver, Crable, the skies opened up and rain began to pour. game. 
Such is the stuffthat legends are made of. The other likely candidate would be the Penn State
DEJA VU -According to legend, Ara Parseghian had game, which has built-in conflicts ofits own. The game
a similar expe,rience during his first year as Irish men­will be played on the same afternoon that Ohio State
tor. The first rally ofthe 1964 season, prior to the Wis­plays Michigan and that Oklahoma and Nebraska tangle. 
Position changes 

consin game, was held outdoors under less-than-ideal None of the six collegiate powers who play that day
conditions. As rain fell on the fans, the student body were willing to move their games to another weekend
strengthen Irish line 

began chanting, "Ara, stop the rain. Ara, stop the rain.'' of the season to accomodate television. (ABC then
Hearing the chant, Parseghian turned to assistant moved the LSU-Alabama game to their schedule
coach Tom Pagna and asked, "Gee, do you think I
By MARK HANNUKSELA Thayer (6-5, 265) and Mike Shiner 
opening in the first weekend of the season. Air time forcould?"
Sports Writer ( 6-8, 270) -will bring a good deal the telecast featuring Notre Dame's opening opponent
Nine weeks later, as the student body rallied behind
of playing experience at di.tlerent 

is 8 p.m. EST Saturday evening.) ­
an unbeaten Irish squad heading into the USC game,
An inexperienced group of ex­positions to their new homes. 

Of course, there is also the possibility of televising
rain again beg~m to fall. The students once again pressed
perienced players. Ellis, who moved from tackle to Florida State's trip to South Bend. Nevertheless, Bernes­
Parseghian, "Ara, stop the rain."
Whoa! Run that by me again? guard in 1980 following injuries to tein remarked that ABC will be "taking the disposition

At that, Parseghian turned to Pagna and said, "Gee, do
An -inexperienced -group -Tim Huffman and Rob Gagnon, will ofths season into account" in choosing their tube slate.

you think Ishould?"

of -experienced -players. open the 1981 season as the starting And you can be sure the the Irish, always a big video
FUP ACOIN -Although rumors have been circulat­
That's one of those nonsensical left guard in Gerry Faust's brand new draw,-will make at least two appearances this season.

ing about Notre Dame's appearances on ABC-TV this
statements that sometimes makes all offense. 
SWITCHING GEARS -Changing sports for a mo­
fall, nothing dlefinite has been set according to Don ment, Irish basketball mentor Richard "Digger" Phelpsthe sense in the world. Indeed, when lining up on his immediate right 
Bernstein, who handles collegiate scheduling for the
talking about Notre Dame's of­will be Mark Fischer, a tight end who has added two walkons to his roster this year, senior
fensive line, it makes perfect sense. saw limited action in blocking situa­network. The three prime possibilities for network Gary Grassey and junior Karl Love. Grassey, anObserver
telecast would be the Michigan and Penn State clashes
Of the five returning players, tions a.year ago. Fischer was moved sportswriter, was impressive during the annual

along with the USC battle. a tube tradition.
whose task it will be to open holes to center in spring drills when Larry However, for the first time in ten years, the Southern Bookstore Basketball Tournament last year and is afor Carters and Sweeneys, and Kissner, the heir apparent to all­Cal game probably will not be telecast by the alphabet veteran of Notre Dame interhall hoop wars. His 6-8,protect K.iels and Koegels, only one America John Scully's job, was network. ABC Sports is committed to the 1981 World 220-pound frame should suit the Hackettstown, N.J.,
-Phil Pozderac ( 6-9, 270) -will slowed with an ankle injury. 
Series, which, because of the baseball strike, has been native well to the power forward position.
play at the same position he played Kissner has since been moved to bumped back one week. The fourth and usually most Love, a 6-4, 180-pound guard/forward, was named tolast season. guard. 
critical game of the Series is is scheduled for Saturday, the 1981 All-Bookstore squad. The Columbia, Md.,
The otherfour -Randy Ellis ( 6-4, See LINE, page 10 October 24 -the same day as the USC game. ABC product is a smooth player with a good touch from the250), Mark Fischer(6-4, 245), Tom tentatively has set aside the 4 to 7 p.m. EDT afternoon outsidt>. Phelps plans to use him at guard and forward. 



TOM THAYER  RANDY ELLIS  MARK FISCHER  MIKE SHINER  PHIL POZDERAC  
6-S, 26S,Jr.  6-4, 2SO,Jr.  6-4, 24S,Jr.  6-8, 270,Jr.  6-9, 270, Sr.  
LeftTackle  Left Guard  Center  Right Guard  Right Tackle  
No.64  No.76  No.S7  No.74  No. 71  
Jollet,W.  Pearland, Tex.  Massillon, Ohio  Sunnyvale, Calif.  Garfield Heights, Ohio  






