---------~----------------~--~----------­
. Summer -page 6 
VOL XVI, NO. 11 
an mdependenc srudenr newspaper serving notre dame and saim mary's 
Free day 
Senate passes resolution 
ByBILLKOLB amended version will receive University approval. ' News Staff In other business, the Student Senate approved the Faculty Senatt:'s nomination of Steven Hayes to fill the The Notre Dame Student Senate last night passt:d and 
remaining faculty scat on the Campus Life Council. As then tabled until next week a resolution that t:s­associate Librarian in chargt: of government docu­tahli!>ht:d an optional "free" day between rt:gistration 
ments, Hayt:s received a master of science degree in and the first day ofclasses. administration from Notre Dame in 1979. Mter debating a resolution from last week's Hall As a recent graduate, Hayes said that "the social inter· 
President's Council meeting that called for a fret: day action available to the studt:nts of Notre Dame is as im· between registration and classes, the Senatt: amendt:d it portant to tht:ir· development as any classroom to extend registration over a two-day period before 
education." classes begin. Hayes promised to "bring an open mind and some Though registration would not necessarily be open fresh blood" to the Council. 
all day on both days, the arrangemt:nt would give stu­Professor Alexander Hahn, as chairman of the Stu­dents the option of having a day free from classes to dent Affairs Committee of the Faculty Senate, occupies settle "class schedules, prepare rooms, clear hallways, the other seat on the CLC. Although confusion exists as buy books and bt:come accustomed to tht:ir new 
to whether faculty on the CLC should voict: student or surroundings.'' Registration would remain open the day 
faculty conct:rns, Murday said he was "impressed" by before classes begin, permitting those who wish to 
Hayes' interest in serving on the CLC and that he return at the last possiblt: moment the option ofdoing remains confident the students' interests will be well­so. represented. At the end ofthe meeting, Murday displayed a plaque
Though tabled until next week to allow Senate mem­bers the opportunity to amend it further, Student Body commemorating the "Chesapeake Shamrock Classic." President Don Murday said he plans to present the On behalf of Notre Dame's student body last year, for· resolution next week to University Provost Timothy mer SBP Paul Reihle initiated tht: annual award by bet· O'Meara. With tcnative approval received from tht: ting that Notre Dame's basketball team would defeat registration office for the resolution, Murday said ht: the University of Maryland. ICels optimistic that the ·University wilJ accept the two The plaque, which remains with the victor, is on dis­
day plan. play on tht: second floor of LaFortune. Presented to Speaking on behalf of Hall President's Council Chair­"The Annual Winner ofthe Notre Dame-Maryland Bas­man Mike Martin, Stanford Hall President Dave Lough­
kt:tball Rivalry," it displays last year's score: ND-73, Md· 70.
lin said, "The rush to get the diploma starts the first day you get to Notre Damt:, and l don't think that's good." Bdore closing, Murday read a lettt:r from Maryland's Although Loughlin called on thc St:nate to adopt tht: SBP that vowed the plaque would return to Maryland in HPC's version of the rt:solution, he said he hopes tht: January. 
Oppose Reagan 
Disabted stage demonstrations 
Don Murday ponders the point in question at Monday's Student
By MICHAEL SCHIERL tion's decision to cut much of the buildings have been rescinded and 
Senate meeting. (photo by Tom O'Brien)
News Staff newly-implemented funding and will go unenforced under the cur· staffing for tht: handicapped. rent federal policy. Membt·rs of the Disabled Professor Stephen Rogers, a blind Amerkan Freedom Rally, a group professor of Notre Dame's General 
opposing Presient Reagan's T U ESDAYJ;;~;;;:::;:~t:::ili:~~1~i.i.4ilii~ Program, views the Reagan plan Navyfighter jetsproposed dt:regulation of handicap with disdain saying. "I do fear this laws, staged a dt:monstration yester· will set things back. Handicapped
:::::\it~~~:;m~::::·FO CUS 
day outside the White House. funding has cenainly been needed 


collide on carrier
Leaders of the group are scheduled for a long time." to mct:t with legislators today, Vice President Bush was recently Rogers foresees no negative im· 
SAN DIEGO (AP) -Two fightr F-14 overboard, the Navy said yt:s·according to member Russell Keller, appointed to a commiuee studying pact for the handicapped of Notre jets collided on the flight deck ofthe terday.
a parent ofa handicapped child. the cost-benefit angle of federal Dame. "Notre Dame has always USS Kltty Hawk during maneuvers in The crash Sunday was the secondThe protest over handicapped funing for the handicapped. In addi· followed the spirit of the acces· the Indian Oct:an, killing a crewman fatal accident involving a U.S. aircraftrights occurrs, strangely enough, in tion, congrt:sslonally·approved on deck and knocking a $1 7 million carrier in less than four months. 
See DAFR, page 4
the "International Year of the Hand· guidelines for accessibility to federal Two otht:r crewmen on deckicapped." Yesterday's rally marked were injured, but the two fliers intht: culmination of the roup's two­the lost F-14 ejected and werewet:k-long national tour. The originating No notice plucked safely out of the st:a.
demonstrators, in At the time ofthe collision, an A·7 · California, rallied in cities through· E Corsair was landing on the aircraftout the nation in two separatt: carrier and the F-14 was taxiing on groups before meeting on the White 

NATO criticizes maneuvers 
deck.
House lawn Saturday night. 
The Corsair managt:d to pull upAn t:arlier rally in Crown Point, 
BRUSSELS, Belgium (AP) -The Sea, the Soviet Baltic states and the ment in Helsinki in 1975 to give for­
and was landed safely without injuryInd. was held at the Nonhwest In· 
Nonh Atlantic Treaty Organization western Soviet republic ofByelorus· mal notification of any maneuvers 
to its crt:w, Cmdr. Mike Shermandiana Special Education said yesterday the Soviet Union vi­sia bordering Poland. involving more than 25,000 troops. 
said at Navy Air Force Pacific Head­Cooperative and called olated the spirit of East-West peace Tass reponed yesterday that The NATO spokesman said that quarters here. Both men aboard that
"enlightening and successful" by agreements by not telling the Wes· troops and naval forces staged small since the agreement the Soviet Uni· assignt:d to
plane arc AttackCooperative Director Dick Surber. 
tern alliance how many troops are mock battles in preparation for lar· on usually has supplied the exact 
Squadron 2i at Lemoore Naval AirTht: rally, headed by Cal-Berkeley 
on maneuvers near Poland. ger engagemt:nts before the war number of troops participating. 
Station in California. student Mkhael Paracous, acquirt:d A NATO spokt:sman · said there gamt:s end Saturday. The Sovit:t "The publication by the Tass 
The F-14 was from Miramar Naval 
four additional demonstrators in also was conct:rn because Westt:rn repons indicatt· that the pace of the agency of a figure of I00,000 par­Air Station in San Diego. The Kitty
Crown Point -two paraplegics, observt:rs had not bet:n invited to maneuvers has been gradually ticipating is not to be considered Hawk is based in San Diego. ont: quadriplegk and a driver. tht: current nine days of Soviet war increasing. formal notification," the spokesman In an 
unrclatcd death, tht: Navy
Stops in Ann Arbor, Dayton. Pitts­games, unlike previous years. 
In a rare official commt:nt, tht: said. "In fact, the magnitude and said a sailor fell off the carrier yester·burgh and Philadelphia followed. 
Permanent representativt:s of the NATO spokesman said the Soviet general location as specified by Tass 
day, about lO hours after the colli­The major concern of those • alliance's I 5 member nations dis· Union notifit:d Western countries of give rise to legitimate questions." 
sion and drowned.
staging the rallies is tht: possible loss cussed the maneuvers yesterday, the NATO Belgium,
the maneuvers on August 14 but did members Wt:st None of the dead or injured wasofhandicappt:d rights guaranteed by spokesman said, and concluded that not say how many troops would be Germany and tht: Unitt:d Statt:s have identified, pending notification ofSectfon 50 of the Rehabilitation Act "the failurt: of tht: Soviet Union to involved. made similar, separate protests. 
next ofkin.
and Public Law 94-142, according to providt: the number of participating The spokesman said the Soviets Tht: U.S. Statt: Department said On May 27, 14 peopk were killedSurber. The laws guarantee and 
force raises serious concern." have been asked to explain why the Friday the maneuvers might be in· 
when an electronic warfare jetimplement the accessibility of The official Soviet news agency figure was omiued but have not tended to intimidate e Polish labor returning from a night training mis­public facilities and education for Tass has said more than 100,000 done so. movement. The independent union crashed onsion the deck of thethe handicapped. The rallyers are troops have been taking pan in sea, Thirty-five countries, including Solidarity is holding its first congress aircraft carrier Nimitz off Jackson­
angered ovt:r the Reagan administra-air and land exercises in the Baltic 
the Soviet Union, signed an agree-in Gdansk, near the Soviet border. 
ville, Fla. 
-------~------~--~---­
Tuesday, September 8, 1981 -page 2 


NewsBrie_b 
· bv The Oh_rerr•er and The AJJotiated Prcu 
Against a background of shouted protests. Presi­dent Reagan gave New York City a make-believe check yesterday to svmbolizt· his down payment on a campaign promise to. support con­strut:tion of a Sl billion Manhattan freeway. The presentation at the official residenct.: of Mayor Edward I. Koch came shortly after the end of a parade whose organizers made a point of not inviting Reagan. Reagan said: 'some of us have come from another Labor Day celebra­tion; some have not. But next year we should all come back and march together. knowing that because of what was done here today, tens of thousands of working peopk who are out of jobs will be working 
again." The president said the. most important thing about the Westway project, which is designed to provide parkland and landfill f(Jr development as well as a new highway from midtown to the tip of !own Manhattan, is that "it will create jobs." -AP 
Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini yesterday declared that no country in the world is more stable than Iran despite a campaign of bombings and assassinations against his clergy-led regime. "Where else in the world would an assassinated prime minis­ter be so quickly replaced'" asked the HI-year-old Iranian leader in an address to the newly formed government of Prime Minister Ayatollah Mohammad Reza Kani in Tehran. "Where else would the power transi­tion be so smooth?" Tehran Radio reported that Kani called on under­ground opposition groups to lay down their arms. The broadcast said the new prime minister proclaimed the United States as "Iran's No. 1 enemy," saying "We shall never forget this enemy." President Moham­mad Ali Rajai and Prime Minister Hojatoleslam Mohammad Bahonar were killed in a firebomb blast Aug. 30 at the prime minister's office in Tehran. Within days, the interim prime minister ter was named. -AP 
Solidarity unionists meeting in this Baltic port yester­day debated the future form of their year-old union and considered proposing a national referendum on workers' reforms. At the same time, more than I00,000 Soviet troops were reported maneuvering beyond Poland's borders and in the Baltic Sea on exercises the United States said may be intended to intimidate the Polish labor movement. NATO yesterday accused Moscow of violating the spirit of the East­West peace accords by failing to report officially the number of troops involved. In the northwest city of Bydgoszcz, meanwhile, 160 prisoners who had barricaded themselves in a jail ended their protest peacefully, the official news agency PAP said. About I SO oth~rs escaped during a Saturday night riot and about 90 remained at large, the agency said. PAP did not indicate what prompted the inmates to give up their protest. Solidarity ofikials participated in the negotia­
tions -AP 
Dave Beck says he's still puzzled by the disappearance six years ago <>fJimmy Hoffa, who, like Beck, served as president of the Teamsters Union. "I cannot possibly imagine what happened_ to him," the 87-year-old Beck said in an interview published in yesterday's San Diego Union. "It's as much a mystery to me as it is to you. I've talked with all kinds of law enforcement officers, and I don't believe there's one ofthem who can elucidate what happened," said Beck who was in San Diego for the Western Conference of Teamsters. Hoffa disap­peared on July 30, l97S, after leaving a suburban Detroit restaurant, and has never been found. -AP 
He has grandchildern and he will be 70 in Novem­ber. but after SO years as a performer, Roy Rogers is still "King of the Cowboys." "You know, SO years is a long time to be doing anything," Rogers told listeners over the weekend between shows at Knott's Ber­ry farm entertainment park. Rogers wore the inevitable white hat and boots and shoulder-fringd shirt. sported the boyish grin and made no bones about his longevity. He even reminded the crowd at a cake and punch reception that he started out as a radio singer in 19 31 with a group that was the forerunner of the Sons of the Pioneers. And at the park's Good Time Theater, the audience cheered Rogers and his wife, Dale Evans. as they sang "Happy Trails," "Along the Navajo Trail" and "Don't Fence Me In." -AP 
A Las Vegas surgeon paid $325,000 at a Labor 
Day auction to buy the psychedelic 19S6 Bentley limousine once 
owned byJohn Lennon. Dr. Lonnie Hammagren wrote out a check fol\ 
the full amount to Kruse Car Auctions here, said Ron Mor~>,an, the 
Santa Ana., Calif, businessman who offercd the car for sale. :.It looks 
like it's in good hands," Morgan said. "I got the price I wanted. I think 
he ( Hammagren) wants it for a collt-,·tion." Hammagn:n could not be 
reached for commert on the sale. Morgan said I SO.OOO pt:ople came 
to Auburn, a town in northern Indiana, for <:1e sale. The auction, held 
in a schoolyard, was part of the Aul>ut.J-Cord-Ducsenberg festival 
held over the holiday weekend. Morgan said he bought the carJan. S, 
about a month after Lennon was slain outside a New York City apart­
ment building. -AP 
Partly sunny' breezy and cooler today. High in the low 70s. Clear tonight then mostly sunny tomorrow. Cool with the low tonight in the upper 40s to low SOs and high tomorrow in the upper 60s to low 70s. -AP 

APPhoto 
File 

EXPLO.WVE CYLINDER: During a press conference last Thursday an ex­Plosive expert of the West German Federal Investigation Bureau shows the remains ofone oftwo gas cylin­ders (stuffed with 30 kilograms of self-made explosives) which ex­Ploded in front(~( the U.S. headquar­ters in Ramstein, August 31. A third gas cylinder shown in front did not explode and was found during police im,estigations. 
WAR GAMES: Tankmen 'are greeted bv residents of Byelorussia, U.S.S.R. as Soviet troops were at the Polish border for a week of war games in Byelorussia and the Baltic republics ofLithuania, Latllia and Estonia. The 
maneuvers, which coincided with Solidari~)''s first na­tional congress this past weekend, renewed Western fears ofSoviet military intervention to crush the reform movement in Poland. 
A GOLDEN .'11./RACLE: A golden eagle, Steinadler, perches on the gloved fist ofhis handler Franz Schuet­telkopfin Rosegg Deer Park, near Villach, Austria. Each summer, hawks and eagles, ou-ned hy W'est German fal­coner Ernst Luettgerperform in the park. 
~-·JUNIORS..!..!....
__The.Observ-er 
/)esixn Fditor... .. ......... l>drdre .\1urph~ 
/Jes/gn Assistants... .. Patty Fox 
Suzanne l.a Croix 

l.ayout Staff ................... ...........Julie Kanak 

~Anyone interested in applying to 
llarh Daly. Sue-Poss 

Typesetter... .. ............ Stephen Brown 

~be chairman of Junior Parents 
Neu•s l:'ditor... . .......... Cathy Domanico 
Copv Editor... . ......... Davitl Rickahaugh Features Layout .. ........ Anthony \X. ahon 

~Weekend or chairman of the 
Sports Cop)' 1-."d/lor ........... llavZ. Dziedzic 

~ Senior Class Trip can pick up an
1)•pisl... .. .... ........Jeanint: Hynt:~ .\)•stems Control . ................. Hruct" Oakley 
·o;:>SF-TJ n;r G~'-JDSTO'-Jf-0 application at the 
.'Vf) Day Editor... ........... Karen .\lc.\lahon 
Ad Design... . .............. Fran & tht: rt·st Photo}!.rapher... ................... Tom O'Brien 

Student Activities
Guest App(•arances ....... You Know \X.'ho Trivia Man 

Office, LaFortune, 
Alternator 
Ramon Dukt• 
Red .\lax 

. from Mon., Sept. 7 . 
Sundry RagJmuffin ( :hildrc ..·n 


~,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,, ~~., ~!~. ~,, .~P~.a..J.~,,,,.,] 



Editorial Board and Department Managers 




==Ibe=ObserYer__-_____ __c___ 
Editor-in-Chief. ................john :\1cGrath SMC ExecutiwEditor ....\tary Agnes Carey 
Box Q. Notre-Dume, JN .4(15 5(1 
Managing Editor .. . ............. .Tom Jackman S.'11.C .Yeu·s Editor .. Cathv Domamco
The Obsen,er is an independent newspaper puhl1shed 11\ the --.tudcnt--. PI the E;(ecutir•e Neu•s Editor ....Lynne Daley Photo Editor ... .......john :\1acor L:n1versity of Notre Dame duLac and Saint Man·'s College. It due.., not nnc--.--.aril' .Yews Editor.. . ............................. .Tim Vercellotti reflect the policies of the administration of either institution The IH'\\'-, ,.., ITI''''ted Neu•s Editor.. ................ . . .....Kelli Flint Business .Uanager .. ... Rich Coppola 
Controller...

as accurately and as objectively as possible. Editorial.., represent the upilllll)l ,Jt .1 Senior Copy Editor.. .... :\1ary Fran Callahan ...... .._Joe .\1ulflur Sports Editor.. ............. :1-lichael Ortman Adr•ertising .Uanager .. . ....... :\-lark Ellis 
majonty of the Editorial Board. Commentaries. oplllion;.. and kttn.., are the '1ew--. 
Features Editor... .......Anthony Walton Production .Uanager.. \1ichael :\-tonk 
rJf their authors. Column space is available to all member;. 11f the lllflll:illlllt\. ;Jn,! 
Circulation .\tanager.. . . ................Tom \1ad.cnnan
the free expression of varying opinions on campus. through letters. IS t'lllllll ragn! 
r 

The Observer 
PATCO 
Strikers join Labor Day ntarch 
:-.lEW YORK ( AP) -\1orc than 20,000 workers marcht·d under gloomy skit-~ yestcrda}' in a Labor l>ay parade, a ddiant procession that \"\a~ loinell by 4,000 jobless air trat~ lk controllers, while the man who fired them was not invited. 
President Reagan, who dismissed 12,000 controllers for staging an il· kgal ~trike, was in town anyway to pn·sent an SHS million check to \1ayor Edward I. Kot·h for a highway project. 
·All prt:sidents usually think of somt· Labor Day gimmick to give the appearance that thl'y favor the working man," said AFL-CIO prt'si· dent Lanl' Kirkland, who led the 
Saint Mary's n~tmes new counselor 
By MARY O'KEEFE 
News .\tt~ff 
Kathy Farrar a$sumt·d the position of otssistant dirt·cLor and coordinator of placc:mt·nt serYiccs in the Coun~:ling and Caret'r Develop· ment Ct·nter at Saint Mary's College in June. 
Defore accepting the St. Mary's post served as a career and place· mt·nt counselor at Indiana Univer­sity at South Bend. She participatt·d in internship programs on cart't'r devdopmt·nt int luding tht· Indiana <:arc:er Resoun:e Ct·ntc:r program. She rc:ct'ived a hachelor degree in clt·mt·ntary t·ducation and a masters 
tkgrct· in counseling and guidance, horh from lliSB. 
\1s. Farrar's responsihilitks as the nt·w assistant director indude per· !'>onal counsdin~ and career plan· nmg hoth individually and on a group basis. <;hl' plans 10 tt'ach an l"ijo:ht Wt"l'k non·l'rnlit course. "Job St·anh Sk•lls," to :tid senior~ in the job 'cart·h and overall career dcvdopment pron·~~ 
As coordinator of placement .•ourt'l'S, a nt·w position this year. she works dirt <:tly with on-campus t•mplover renuiter' 
.\ts Farrar replact·s Tony ( 'amphell who left Saint Mary's to ac· c:ept the position of Director of the Ct·nta of Counselin~ and Career lkvdopmcnt at Hampden-Sydney Colkgt in Hamptkn·Svdney, Va. Camphc:ll served as assistant direc· tor at Saint Marv's for two years bdore kavm~ in ,June. During those two vears he int·rl'ascd the numher ofc.1mpu.• employn rn:ruiters from 
1..! to 1:\H lie rn·ruitcd alumnat· to grt mvolvul in the joh placernt·nt program 
Although no major chang_e~ in the .oun'<·ling proRram an •lotted for tht· o.:ommg y«:dr, 'lh. Farrar hop1·s that 'tudt·nts pl.m to use tht· t'l"ntcr frt·qut·nrh. 
"C :oun~ding provtdc·s ~upport as well a~ ncalin· dltnnottivn tbr ,,tu· dent~ who art· -.wu and ft-d tht·re b .1 hurdk w Jo(t't o' ''r." ~tared the new ;~s~i.,stanr dirt·l'tor 
Dr.Kristol speaks at library 
Dr. Irving Kri~tol. professor ofSo· nal Thought at :-.lew York Cnivcr· sity. will spt·ak at tht· t 'niversity of ~otre Dame's '-lemorial Library Auditorium Wt·dnt·sdar. Seplt'mber 16, at :\::~0 p.m. His topic will hl' 
"The :\1oral Basis of Busines.., En· terprise." 
parade. "He's taking full advantage of 
it." 
The New York parade -which was joined by more than 20,000 people by midday -was the city's first in 13 years. And it was the big· gest of many observances across the country in honor of the American labor movement. which celebrates its IOOth anniversary this fall. 
Often the rhetoric was harsh. 
In Los Angeles, California Gov. Ed· 

rnund G. Drown Jr. told a Labor Day 
hreakfast held by the Catholic Labor 
Institute of Southern California that 
"President Reagan did not win a 
mandatt' last :-.lovember to smash 
unions." 
Brown also said, ··we have 

entrenched in Washington a presi· 
dent and an administration which 
has alrt·ady launched a major as.~ault, 
not only on the union movement it· 
self, but on tht· rights of I00 million 
workers in this country." 
But mostly it was a day for play, 

warm beaches. cold beer, cookouts 
and county fairs. 
More typical of rural America was 

the Powers Crossroads Plantation 
labor Day Festival in Georgia.wht're 
tht·y were showing off 0corn shuck 
dolls, bobbin lace, kiln-fired ¢ass, 
kather goods ,otnd a sorghum mill 
and grist mill that still work. 
In New York, the contingent of 

members of the Professional Air Traffic Controllers Organization drew warm applause as it marched by the reviewing stand chanting, "Strike! strike! Strike!" 
Sen. Daniel P. Moynihan, D-N.Y., said as they passed, "It looks like they came from aU over the country, and they are trving to get the (AFL· CIO) executive council to take a more active part in the strike." 
Kirkland said, "If people have any brains or understanding or half a heart there ought to he a resolution for the people of the United States and the country at large. It's not sen· siblc for a system like this to be lim· ping along at halfspeed." 
Steve Wallaert, head of PATCO's Local 291 in Norfolk, Va., marched with chains around his neck in sym· bolic protest ofhis rt:cent arre.~t. 
Some PATCO marchers wore 
signs with Wallaert's picture which 
read: "union busting or coUectiYe 
bargaining? is your union next?" 
PATCO president Rohert Poli 
said: "there's not going to be any dis· 
mantling of our union or just 
blowing 12,000 people away." 
In the long run, Poli said, he 
hoped "cooler heads" in the Reagan 
administration would help settk the 
month-long dispute. 
"The issue is to settle the strike, 
not to fire people," he said. 
r ~ 

CUT CLASS WITH EVELYN WOOD. 

Evelyn WO<:XJ Reading Dynamics invites you to a free Lesson. It's the first lesson in our remarkable 7 week course and you're inv1ted FREE of charge. You'll not only learn about reading faster and better, but you'll also learn: 
' HOW TO TAKE BETTER NOTES HOW TO IMPROVE YOUR STUDY TECHNIQUES HOW TO TAKE TESTS HOW TO COMPREHEND AND REMEMBER MORE OF WHAT YOU READ HOW TO REDOCE STUDY TIME 
This is actually the first lesson of the Evelyn Wa<:XJ Reading Dynamics course ...AND ITS FREE1You're under absolutely no obligation when you attend. 
Tuesday, September 8, 1981 -page 3 

.. __..__________________ l'heObserYer Tuesday, September 8, 1981 -page 4 
--~-------·· ............. -~---...-~ <·---~---------.._._______ 
Language war 


Controversy divides Belgiutn 
COMINE~. Belgium -To 51-church and someone walked up to Comines. year-old Paul Sergier, the past year us, gave us the Nazi salute, said 'Heil But Sergier and others of Flemish and a half has been "like taking a Hitler' and told us we didn't belong descent feel their children should little bit of arsenic every day." in church," Sergier said. have a Flemish education. 
His hands clutch the latest dosage: The reference to Hitler stems For this they take much abuse. an envelope on which is written, in from the feeling among Noel Decramer. whose children French, "To Mr. P. Sergier, Great· Frenchspeakers that many Flemings attend the Flemish school, was Grandson of Hitler.. Descendant of helped the German occupiers to try ··quarantined'' for months by the SS." .to get a better deal for Flanders. French-speaking colleagues at the 
Inside the envelope is a small The linguistic strife permeates College Saint Henri here. where he booklet describing, in French, the even politics. There are two Socialist teache~. history ofthe Dutch language in Bel­parties -one Flemish, the other 
"He bothers us a lot. He wants togium and tlhe Netherlands. It has French speaking. Christian make C.:omines Flemish, so we putbeen scratched Jnd scarred with a Democrats and Conservatives arc him in quarantine." said Christiane 

green ballpoint pen. similarly divided. 
Demeulenaere. a fellow teacher"It arrived this morning," Sergier But away from the politics ofBrus­"We told him, 'We don't speak wsaid. He is used to mail like this. He sels, Belgium's linguistic strife can _you anymore."
shows otherr letters adorned with be painfully vicious when it touches "I've lost friends and I've lost my
swastikas and profanities. personal lives, as in Segier's case. reputation," Decramer said, "but I
"One day I opened an envelope Last year he helped found a small think it was worth it."
and it contain.ed excrement." Flemish school -enrollment 20. 
Almost 20 years after Belgium was The trouble is that Comines is a Others share his feelings, even the officially split in two -with French French-speaking enclave of 23 mothers who led their 20 spoken in the southern Wallonia square miles within Flemish Bel­youngsters to school in the past year region and Flemish, almost identical gium along the French border. -most days through a gantlet of to Dutch, spoken in Flanders, to the Many of the 18,000 people living jeering. heckling women outside the north -the country's "language in the villages ofComines resent the schoolhouse. The school is war" continues. school. They consider it a first step recognized by the Belgian govern­
"The other day we came out ot toward a Flemish takeover of ment and receives public funds. 
(photo by Tom O'Brien) 

Nuclear plants 

--------------~-----------­
1 RIVER CITY RECORDS 
1 Northern Indiana's largest Selection of Albums & Tapes. 
1 Why pay more any place else? 
Senator proposes new-siting law-
I any regular r_ecord or tope with ad. 
I $1 00 OFF L1m1t l per person I • '• Expir.,•Oct. l.l9RJ INDIANAPOLIS ( AP) -The time state of Indiana saying where they 
prove that they actuallv need the t•x­
I 50970 US 31 North e Open ti II l 0 every night 
is ripe tiJr Indiana to enact a power (utilities) can build power plant~
13 miles North of Campus e ND/SMC checks cashed tra generating capacity !Tom a nt.·w 1next to Al's Supermarket up to $20 over plant siting law in light of th(· and where they run their lines." the plant. Presumabiv the siting and cer­
,__________________________
purchase omounl 

"financial tuasco" of the Raillv senator said.
I titkatt· of need would be handkd bv
277-4242 •Record Crates available nuclear plant, state Sen..'\.1ichael C. Kendall said a sitmg law woul(l 
the Public Service Commission. Kendall. D-Jasper, said yestcrdav. avoid the expense of litigation 
whtch sets utilitv rtltt.·~ in Indiana 
"I believe the peopll" of Indiana which results when a utility picks a "If the certificate of need -rt:quin··and the utilitie~ havt· been short­controversial place to build a power nwnt i~ nor coupled with adequate changnl hv tht· lat·k ofa power plant plant. Without a siting Ia\\. "the 




·--------------------------· stall and adequate funding. It would 
~iting law in Indiana," he told repor­peopk in Indiana have no protel· 
actuallv he a ru~e." Kt·ndall warned ter~ at a ~tatehoust· news con­
I ton against thtl> (Bailly) happening "If tht· c..-rtiticate ot need function.,
THE IBM PERSONAL COMPUTER It-renee again and again," Kendall said. 
the wav the PSC docs now. 1t would 
IS HERE!!! 
Come to the presentation: 
Thursday, September 10 at 1:00 p.m. ND Library Auditorium~.,~ # 


--$----$--=W/ ~~ --$-­
·---------------­
~ 
I 
I 
I 
I 

HP-33E 
549 
Mtr Sugg Lrst Mtr· Sugg. Lrst $90 $60 
Tl 59. Tt sac.. Tt PC1DOC . 

. ... 95 
Tt PROG.. 

. 165 Tl 55.
Prmter . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 285 
Tt 55-II. 37 Memory Module !'r:" •1P-.a1 c: ....... 23 ~ 
Quad A A.M. "or HP <:1C; , . . . .. , 75 , 
Tt 57.. . 29 T1 MBA.. 50 T1 BA2. . 39 

HP-97 .......................... 575 
Tt Bue Anal I. 15

HP-67 .......................295 
Tl 35 SP ........................ 18

HP·38C.. . .115 HP·37E .............. 59 
T~l~ln~v-~A~n~a~l.~·iilimi·.. 42

HP·34C.. ......... 115 HP·33C. . .69 HP·33E ....... 49 HP·32E ..... 43 HP-85 Camp ....... 2600 
Kendall's statements were With Bailly fresh in the minds of he of no henelit." prompted by Northern Indiana the public and the legislators. thac Public Servict· Co.'s decisiOn to is more potential for passing a power abandon construction of the nuclear plant siting law in Indiana than at any generating station in northwestern other time... he said. Indiana after a decade of litigation The notion of a power plant siting 
• • .DAFR 

and S20"i million in construction law could be combined with a costs proposal to allow utilities to recover continuedfrom {'age I Kendall. a member of an interim the cost of building power plants 
sibilitv law on its own -even with­
legislative committee studying how before they arc actually producing out ~pccial funds In fact. the Indiana sets utility rates. wants the any electricity, he said. That concept Universitv has become espt:ciallvpanel to examine the possibility of is known as charging for construc­aware of the needs of the hand­
drafting a sitmg law tor the state tion work in progress. 
icapped in recent vears. I foresee a Since 1976, Kendall said, eight "If rate payers are going to be 
continuation of this course with 
power plant siting bills have been in­asked to pay for the plant while it is even more money being designatedtroduced in the Indiana General As­being built, they ought to have a in future years." he said. 
sembly hut none of them received a right to say where that plant is going Rogers added that Notre Dame is hearing. Kendall noted that 31 states to be built before money is being making a concentrated effort con­regulate utility siting in some way, taken out of their pockets to pay for centrate on accepting more hand­including five Midwestern states -it," he said. 
ICapped students. An Office for Ohio. Illinois, Michigan, Wisconsin Kendall said that although he has Handicapped Student Affairs is soonand Minnesota. 
voted against C\X'IP in the past. he 

to be created. and a lecture series "The t1nancial fiasco of Bailly has might be persuaded 10 vote for it if it 
featuring five distingushed hand­been caused by lack ofa power plant were connected to a siting law and a 
icaped speakers is also planned for siting law There is no law in tht· requirement that the utilities must 
this year. 
r--~------~~~---------~~---~---------1 
: Notre Dame Soccer • t 
Season tickets on sale now through Thursday. . :
1 t STUDENT SEASON PASS only S4 for 12 home games • : GATE TICKETS Sl/game : 
: Sept 11 Loyola, Chicago Oct. 4 U of Chicago : :Sept. 13 St. Louis u• marquette : 1 t Sept.. 15 St. Joseph's Wisconsin I 
1 : Sept.. 16 Valparaiso Northwes~ern : : Sept. 30 De Paul Indiana U 1 : lOct. 2 ffiichigan St 1 Wright St~~e l : ~ \ \ : 
t t t t
t.. . I.\ t 
L ~:'~~~~~~~A~~~~~_________c:~c:.a_:y..:•:m_m_:m~.:_:4~~~~~ 
The Obser\'er Tuesday, September H, 19H 1 -page'; 
-----------------·---------------------····--··----------­
Congress faces proposed sharp cuts in '82 budget 
WASill:--!GfON ( AP) -Con~ress Among otht·r items on the agenda 
relllrn~ this wtTk from a month-lon~ this week: 
recess facing administration -Confirmation ht·arings begin prt·sslJrt' for anothn round ofpoliti· tomorrow for Sandra Day O'Connor. cally exnuciatin~ hud~et cuts. nominated hy Reagan to he the first Pre,idt·nt Rt·a~an hopes the nc:w femak memher of the Supreme 
nils will shore up tht· sa~in~ con­Court. 
fidentT of Wall Street and hc:lp kn·p -llealth and Human Services 
his prorniM.· of a balanced ll'l.tdget in Secretary Richard Schweikcr tes­
19tH. tifies hl'fort· a Senate Committet• 
AdminiMration analysts. as well as tomorrow on Reagan administration 
congressional and private proposals to lower Social Security 
economists. havt· t·oncludt•tl within benefits for all future retirees, fur­
tht· past month that hi~h intc:r rates ther reduce payments for those who 
and lower ~ovnnment rc:venut·s retire early, phase out the earnin~s 
resulting from hdty tax t·uts will limitation for those who work 
push budget ddkits for 1982 and heyond normal retirement a~e and 
heyond well ahove administration make it more difficult to qualify for 
targt·ts. disability payments. 
While not looking forward to cut­-Reagan is to send a formal notice 
tin~ pro~ams so soon after enacting to Con~ess tomorrow of his inten­
a record S~';.2 hillion package of tion to sell SR o; billion sophisticated 
hudgt·t rt•ductions July -~I, some of A WACS surveillance planes and 
Rt·agan's con~cssional supporters equipment for F-Io; fighter planes to say privatl'ly they are plcascu the ad­Saudi Arahia. The sale will go ministration is hc:ginning to realize through unless both houses of that its earlier c:stimatcs were too Con~css veto it by Oct. ~0. · optimistic. 
"I think he (budgc:t director David 
A. Stockman) finally has the right No panic numbers -a little bit of reality has st·t in," said an influential Republh:an on Capitol Hill. 


Americans fear mounting Libyan tension 
The GOP legislator, who asked that his name not be used, conceded 
TRIPOLI, Libya ( AP) port on the edge of the Sahara school administrator, a secretary.
that the administration has "lots of -Tht· Americans art· private
Americans living in this radical Arab desert. They don't go out much at aml oil executives -cited these
problems in the deficit department," Citizens, instt·ad of government
nation say they feel safe but fear in­night bc:causc: Libya's volatile kader, reasons why they were not worril'd
but ht· added "we'd be in the pits" reprt·scntatives like tht· t•mbassy
creao;ed tensions touched off by last <.:ol. Moammar Khadafy, preaches ahout their safety: -Lihya's oil­
without further bud~et cuts. pnsonncl sdznl in Iran. 
molllh's ll.S. Libyan aerial dogfight strict adherence to Islam and has based economy would collapse 
-The Iran crisis took place durin~ could lt•ad to tht'ir ouster. closed the city's lively nightclubs without forei~n technicians, par­Administration oflkials had 
argued that large budget cuts and a time of rt·volutionary upheaval
"We feel we're temporary here, and banned alcohol. Some ticularly Amcri<:ans. The Ameri<:ans 
tht·re. wht·rt·as Khadafy has rult-d for tax t·uts would spark a positive psy­which we never did bc:forc," said an Americans arc said to make their don't rult-out the possibility that 
I2 }'l'ars without makin~ physinlAmerican teacher who has lived in own wine from grape juice. Khadafy might kit'k them out<:hologit'al n·sponse on Wall Street, thrt·ats against II.S. citizens.
leading to improved economic con­
Lihya for six years. In separate interviews with The anyway. Hut they don't belil'Vl' he 
-Top l.ihyan officials havt· assuredditions and lower intaest rates. 

State Department officials have Associated Press, seven li.S. citizens would hold them hosta~e ht-caust· 
Amerkans publicly and privately
So far, however, Wall Street has 
exprt·ssed conn·rns l.ihva might and two West European diplomats that would alil'nate the t•ntin· 
since tht· air hattie that they have no­
not responded and, as the 
take the Americans hostage like scoffed at tht· idea that l.ihya mi~ht foreign community and risk an ex­
thing to ftoar. Oilt'XtTutivt·s sailltht·Rt·puhlitan lawmakt·r plll it. "The in­
Iranian militants did in the 19'9 seize the Americans or harm them. odus that would ll'avt· the oil wells 
Libyans are insulted by su~ntions
ttrcst rate is hauntin~ all 
takcovt·r of the I!.S Embassy in Teh­The Americans -including a without peopll' to opnate them. 
that tht·v wouldn't hl· good hosts.
politicians." 

ran. Tht· warning was rt·peated to 

Thus, the administration is 
the 2,000 or so Amerieans after U.S. 
working on a new list ofhudget cuts, 
warplanes downed two Libyan jets In Northern lrelaVJ,r~
including the previously exempt 
Aug. 19 in disputed airspace over '· 
tkft·nSt· hudgt·t. 

the Gulf ofSidra. Tht· administration is studying "Tht·re tTrtainly has not been any where cuts can ht· madt· and no final panic," lkl~ian Amhassador Jean 
Convicted killer joins strike 
tkdsion.s art· expected until later in Deschamps, who represents li.S. in­the Wt't'k, at the t·arlic:st. tcrc:sts in Libya. said. The li.S. Embas­.\lt-anwhik. Congress has not sy has het·n dosed since Decemher 
BELFAST. Northc:rn lrdand (AP)­finishnl work on any of the I~ ap­1979, when it was invaded and set 
A 2';-ycar-old convincd killer joined the hunger strike in the Maze
propriations bill that actually afire by a Lihyan moh. provide the money every year fi>r Most of the Amt·ricans live in the 
prison yesterday amid si~ns of a 
~rowing split among ~ucrrilla groups and prisoners' families ovn continuing thc death fast. 
At the same time. the outlawed Irish Republican Army vowt·d to the fnkral government. capital of Tripoli, a :\1editnranean 
Four armed escapees 
"pay the British government in kind" for the deaths of ten guerrillas on the fast and a dozen Roman Cath­olic supporters in street clashes
elude prison capture 
sparked by the hungn strike. The warning in this week's issue LANSlN<;. Kan. (AI') -Four of tht· Republican News, the IRA's
and ~unshot wounds in the chest, !wavily armed convi~·ts who broke hoth arms and tht· right kn~'t'. puhlication, undermined ~rowing out of tht· ~ansa'< :ity Pri~;on dudnl prt·ssure from the rank and file for a 
The inmates escaped hy stealing a
capture for a second day yesterday, new offensive. 
guard's uniform. faking their way in­
aftn thrn· of them tied up a farmer The hun~er strike campai~n took 
to a guard tower and taking a shot­
and hi~ wift· and ~toll' a shotgun. another sethat·k Sunday when the 
gun. a ..~H-calihn revolver. a .:'>0-:'>0
rnont·y and a car. lri.'b National Liheation Army
calihn riflt· and a supply of amuni­
declared it will scale down the num­Law enlilrtTmelll officers said t ion. 
her of its llll'n in the :VIaze who jointhey had tt·mporarily haltnl a man­hunt for Iat k of frt·sh It-ad~. 
Terry .\ll'Ciain. a convil"ted mur­the strike. tlt-rer. was capturnl in woods near Brtain's Northern Ireland <>tlkt· The last rqmrt of the t·scapt't's ­the Bonner Sprin~s toll~ate on the reported that John Pickering rdu~ed 
three of them tonvktnl murderer~ 
Kansas Turnpike..\k< .lain..~I, was breakfast yt·stcrday and declared he -ctmt· from Roht·rt Seymour. a takt·n to the Wyandotte County Jail. was joining fivc other fasting guerril­Bast·hor farmi:r. who told police at 
1~ •
according to Bonner Sprin~s Police
It-aM thrn· oftht·m t·ntnnl his home Lt. Bo.h Kroh. lie was jailed fi>r lift· in January<;unday night and tinlup him and his 19~8. on char~e of killing a '7'-year­wift-Al'tn t·apturing ,\lcCiain, officer~ old Belfast garage ownn during a
with dogs ~wept into tlw wooded 
~wvnwur told otficns tht· men 
I<.J'6 hold-up. fie also was sen­
art·a to capture convicted murdt-rt·r
ripped his phone from the wall. stole tenced to 26 yt·ars for allegedly
:VIarvin Thorton. '10, and Larry .\1il­
a _,hotgun, 5200 and fled in hi., t·ar. 
possessing explosives and par­
ln..~.~­
The uluple was not injurnl. 

ticipating in other terrorist crimes. 
S<·ven convict~ e~t·apnl from the Still at lar~e were _lames .\lurray. Pickering is the 2 Ist guerrilla in prison Sunday. hut three \\'t'rt· 2·•. serving 20 ~Tars for murder and the top-security prison lll'ar Belfast quickly apprehended aftn the t'S­robhery:_lohn E. Kitdlt'll. 28. serving to join the hunger strike, launched eapt-es shot ami ~t·riou~ly wounded I'7'\ )Tars for murder: Rohc:rt D. 
:-.-larch I in a hid to force the British a polknnan in liOJllltT Spring~. lkntlcy, 26. serving a life sentence government to treat jailed ~uerrillas ahout I'\ milt'S south of Lansing. 
for murder, kidnapping. rape and as prisoners of war. Tht· British Bonner Springs Polin· Sgt. Doug as~aulting a law officer: and Everett refuse. 
Can~ler. .\I. was hospitalized in I. Cameron..U. serving 22'; years Ten men have starved themselves serious condition n·sterday in for rape. hur~lary, and grand lar­to death so far in the battle of wills Kan~as City. Kan. with a broken arm c·:nv. between the imprisoned guerrillas and Prime :vlinister :vlargaret lht· hungt·r strikers' families 'Otid Thatcher's Const·rvatin· govern· mort· rdativt'.' an· now t'XPlTlnl to ment. intt-rvent· to authorizt· mnlictl 
But the families of tilllr of thl' treatnll'nt shunned hy tIll' fastns protcsters have authorized mnlit·al I hemsdves. intervt·ntion to saVl' the nJt·n's livt·s. The prisoners' voin·d strong sup­the last two within 48 hours of t·ach pnrt fnr tht· hung~·r strike at a othcr over tht· weekt·nll. A fifth hun· mn·ting early last month. But that 
gc:r strikn suffc:rin~ from a pn· ~olidarity appears to havt· nacknl in fi>ratt·d ~tlcer was orderl·d off the fa~t ren·nt wn·ks in till' httT of Britain's in May. rd'usal to institute prison rdlmns Wdl-informcd sources dosl· to 
untiltht· hunger ~trikl· is callnl oil. 
The Features P·age Needs Writers 
Human Interest, Culture, Humor, Satire and General Interest 
Music, Book, 8c Theater Reviews 
-Also we are looking for a Weekend/Entertainment Columnist 

Features 
Tuesday, September 8, 1981 -page 6 
How I spent my summer vacation 
days." They ask that Idownplay their
Lynne Daley 
collegiate roles so that the few people who remember when don't realize what a dolt the old class hero
Features Writer 
has become. 
And there is always the absolutely apathetic youth, who, through a It's been called the greatest freak ofnature is the son or daughter profession in the world by the in­ofa most obnoxious mother. Once, a itiated, but to the rest of the world mother actually accused me of journalism is a somewhat shady oc­deliberately making her son sound cupation that relies on clandestine boring. Truth was that her son was "Deep Throat" sources to break boring, but his mother implied that I stories ofinternational importance. was a functional illiterate because of Little, if any, notice is ever given the way I wrote the item. One to the reporter who never quite woman even went to the extreme of 
makes it big, who spends his/her life purchasing a paid advertisement so 
typing obits or births and covering that she could run the story and 
meetings of sewage commissions, picture the way she wanted it -for 
etc. over noo. 
And boy, can I identity. 

As a so-called "cub" reporter on a One problem in particular that I small-to-medium size daily in Massa­often encounter is the plethora of chusetts, I have covered my share of neuter gender names. If a grad's banalities, have been bored out of name is Dale Smith (Dale being an my mind more often than not at a especially common name in this meeting ofsome ridiculous commit­peeves about college students in in a debate. major, no doubt) who itemizes each category) it's impossible for me to tee and have-committed more than general. Graduate: MOM! and every activity. "For three tell if Dale is a son of someone, or one small error resulting in irate First, there is the mama's boy/girl, And so on. One has to wonder months I was on the crew team, but their daughter. But this person is al­phone calls and threats of bodily who allows his/her parent to place how these kind ofpeople ever made quit that to join the wrestling team ways extremely offended if I have 
harm. the call to me, (and probably also al­it through school on their own. on Nov. 16, freshman year, etc.,etc." the nerve to ask them to elaborate. 
For example, to increase circula­lows her to eat, drink and breathe for Second, there i~ the class presi­It makes great reading after a whole The summer does not end-in late 
tion during the summer months, my him/her) thereby turning a simple dent type, who was involved in ab­day ofsimilar epics. june, how~ver, and when the 
newspaper runs graduation notices question-and-answer session into a solutely every club on campus, and There's always the proud mama graduates are disposed of, I get 
about just about anyone who complicated game ofOperator. simply cannot rellate the entire list at who wants a picture ofher kid to run other, sometimes equally exciting 
receives any kind ofdegree from just Listen in: once. This person assumes I .am atop the story, despite the fact that assignments. Of course, writing 
about anywhere. And, as one who Me: What activities was your dclighted to drop everything when the kid has no such ambition -or about such abstract things is 
has had the dubious honor of son/daughter involved in? he/she calls for the 37th time to tell will not admit to one. On the sly, I definitely a brain-limbering ex­
compiling this data for the past three Mommy: What activites were you me that "oops, I forgot the gospel am handed a blurry picture of ercise. Through my job I've become 
summers, I can tell horror stories involved in? choir." Needles!; to say, I am not someone with a dog and asked to a pseudo-expert on the science of 
about what I consider to be the most Graduate: murmur murmur mur­delighted. print just the face -ofthe person -converting solid waste to steam 
boring job in the world. mur... Then, there is the budding jour­blurry or not. The editors do not like energy, on the motivations . of a 
In itself, the chore is quite simple. Mommy: Is that all? What about nalist, who wants my job and insists this, but in the interest of peace I modern Marxist and on the 
I have to ask the 1000-plus graduates the soccer club? that his/her write-up of the an­generally accede. workings of a small-town govern­
-either over the phone or through Graduate: murmur murmur mur­nouncement is far better than any­Some of the graduates are still so ment. 
the mail -such important ques­mur... thing I could ev(~r dream up, since I, entrenched in the past that their col-As important as all of these may 
tions as what honors they've Mommy: Well, it's your life. (to unfortunately, have "gone stale" lege careers were just anticlimaxes seem, the biggest story that paper received, or what activities they've me) He/she was in the soccer club, somewhere between my 400th and to high school. For these graduates, will ever run is the one that will an­participated in. The whole job takes but will kill me if you print that. SOOth announcement. I am handed, the fact that they lettered in track nounce my graduation from Notre about a month of my summer -Don't put anything. courtesy of this genius, a story that and broke their high school record Dame next May. And as long as eight hours a day of vicariously re­Graduate: NO, Mom. murmur would require an entire magazine far overshadows their participation whoever succeeds me in the job is living the collegiate careers of all murmur murmur... supplement if it were used in its en­in college-level intramural sports. able to spell my name right, I'm not sorts ofdifferent people. Mommy: Oh, he/she wants you to tirety. Never mind that the former hap-about to complain. 
I have, as a result of my extensive say the debate team. But I can't im­pened four years ago or that no one But heaven help them ifthey drop 
experience, developed a list of pet agine why, since he/she was never Or how abom the guy (business really cares about the "good old the "e." 
•

Summer jobs those who stay
• 

Jenny Pins 
Features Writer 
For the fifth consecutive summer at 9:1 5 Monday morning I grabbed my thermos and went on break with "the girls." At twenty-one, I was the closest thing there to a girl -the rest being of the polyester­pantsuited variety -but I never thought it wise to point that out. To the outsider, it does not appear to be an exclusive group. 
This is only how an outsider might perceive the situation. He would be mistaken to interpret the gestures of common consideration as a tacit in­vitation to join the group. For among girls there is a distinction those who stay and those who don't. Those who won't last are targeted from 
their fist day on the job. Some stay 
longer than others, but never very 
long. 
Being both young and the boss's daughter should have destined me for an outside seat in the office. Being a self proclaimed temporary employee should have made that peripheral seat look good. Yet, per­haps because I was polite and a 
potential source of information, a place was made for me with the _in­ner core. I think buying the thermos is what did it. 
Among "those who stay," Delores is the one who fascinated me the most. Dolores has worked at her job for fourteen years, longer than any of the other girls. She was not very pleasant, probably beacause she had worked there for fourteen years. I should say that she wasn't very pleasant to me. I was new ( sht; never remembered me from one summer to the next), another temporary face to get used to. 
I seemed to get along well with eve_ryone but Delores. There was a threshold between us that neither cared to cross. Consequently, for the four previous summers I only knew Delores superficially. She is a heavy­
set lady in her mid-fifties with creepy skin and a nasal voice. Delores does not walk, she lumbers. She repelled me at times. Possessing only about eight front teeth, a few of which were noticeably decayed, it was a chore for her to consume a sweet roll each morning. The process was aided by periodic sips of hot coffee which softened the dough making it easier to push around her mouth and eventually swallow. She hurt me at times. A very prejudiced woman, Delores off-handedly con­demned blacks and hispanics. She amused me at times. Despite having 

worked at her job for "tourteen years, Delores never once called out "break time , Girls !" This is a ritual that we went through every morn­ing as though we were engrossed in our work that we didn't realize it 
was already 9: I 5. And, Delores amazed me at times. She was crazy about Elvis Presley. She owned all his albums , she watched all his movies, and she kept his picture in a frame on her desk. Her dream was to visit Graceland. 
This past summer I decided to get 
on the better side of Delores, I at­
tributed her prejudice to ignorance 
and tried to look beyond that barrier 
to what was potentially a good per­
son. Isoon learned that Delores led a 
very lonely life. Never married, she 
lived with her old, ill parents and the 
neice she had raised from a child. 
Delores did not drive and so she was 
dependent on the generosity of co­
workers and the less than depend­
able Dial-a-Bus. Despite her fourteen 
years ofservice she made only a very 
small salary on which to support 
three other people. With these facts 
in mind, I made it a point to say hello 
and to address qlllestions to Delores 
thoughout the day. The big 
breakthrough came when she called 
me by name (the first time in four 
years) and not "she." 
But Delores was no fool. She saw 
my questions for what they were before I did. The day she brought in triends after that. She seemed to the bouquet ofweeds I realized this. sense that I had learned something Who would have thought that and began to include me in her Delores could have thought of, let circle of friends. We laughed and alone make, a beautiful bouquet fom talked honestly, not trivially. wild flowers and weeds which she The real breakthrough came on had found in a vacant lot. It was a my last day. As I was clearing off my birthday gift for another girl, and desk, Delores came up to me and come to think of it, I was the only said, "Goodbye, hon. And good luck. one who was really amazed. You're a good girl." 
Delores and I became good I could have cried. I think I did. 
A letter from the editor 
writers, and some other new of now, the Features section is Welcome to the Features page. As new 
developments that are still in the planning stages will combine with
"under construction," but we're the traditional features selection o
working on it: And as the year con­reviews, cultural, and human inter­
tinues we hope to develop a page est stories to give the page a per­
that is both entertaining and in­sonality ofit's own.
formative, with something for The Obseroer welcomes any and
everyone. We're going to continue . all suggestions from its readers, and
many of the more popular aspects we would like to hear any ideas, sug­
and ideas of the section and gestions, or criticism concerning
combine them with some new ap­the Features section. We'll be happy
proaches that will make the paper to hear from you. And we're always
that much more interesting. For ex­looking for so
ample, we are developing a staff of new writers, I en­courage anyone who is the least bit
student columnists (two of whom, interested to contact me at 1'l 5.
Lynne Daley and Jenny Pitts, debut today), and we're picking up two syndicated columnists, Andy 
Anthony Walton 
Rooney and Russell Baker. These 
.· 
! 

' \ ' \ 
···--····---·-·-----, 


. .r. 
, 

.... 
Tuesday, September 8, 1981 -page 7 
-,.. ~· !' 

Awomen's trackand cross country club is organizing. A meeting is scheduled for this evening at 7 p.m. in the Lewis Hall base­ment. Anyone interested is encouraged to attend. -The Observer 
The Rowing Club will hold a general meeting tomor­row at 8 p.m. in the Uttle Theatre of LaFortune. All members are reminded to bring their dues and proofof insurance to this meeting. Anyone interested in join(ng should attend. No previous rowing ex­perit:nce is necessary. If you would like to join but are unable to at­tend, contact Bob Bennett at 3402. -The Obseroer 
Windsurfing at Notre Dame? That's right. A 
preliminary gathering of students interested in this new activity is scheduled for 6:30p.m. Thursday in the Library Auditorium. All are welcome. -The Observer 
The Novice Crew Team will hold its first workout this afternoon at 4:30p.m. Members should meet in the "C" Line ofthe North Dining Hall. -The Obsen,er 
Registration has begun for the student ticket lot· tery for the Michigan and Purdue football games. Students may rcgis­tc.·r from I 0 a.m. to 4 p.m. through tomorrow afternoon at the Student llnion Record Store/Ticket Office. Students must present their own I D whc.·n registering. -The Obsert1er 
A mandatory track meetingwill be held at 3:3o 
p.m. Wednesday in the ACC auditorium for anyone interested in run· ning indoor or outdoor track this year, including returning athletes. ­
The Obsert'er 
The ND Ultimate Frisbee Club practices daily 
at 3:30p.m. on Memorial Field. Newcomers arc welcome. -The Oh· 
Sert'er 
Sportsboard 
Sunday'a Gamea Today'aGamea 
Atlanta at Green Bay Montreal (Sanderson 7·5) at Ph1ladelph1a (Larson 0­Buffalo al Balt1more 0). n Chicago at San Franc1sco New York (Lynch 2·3) at Pittsburgh (T1ant 1·3). n C1nc1nnall at N Y Jets Houston (Ruhle 3-3) at Atlimta (N1ekro 6-5). n 
NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE Denver at Seattle San D1ego (Eichelberger 6·6) at Cmc1nnat1 (Bereny1 NATIONAL CONFERENCE Detro1t at San D1ego 7-4). n Eaal Houston at Cleveland Ch1cago (Martz 4-6 of Kravec 4-4) at St Lows 
W L Pet. PF PA Los Angeles at New Orleans (Martinez 2·5), n. Dallas 0 1 000 26 10 New England al Philadelphia San Francisco (Alexander 8-5) at Los Angeles Ph1ladelph1a 1 0 1 000 24 10 N. Y G1ants al Washington (Hooton 9-5). n St. LOUIS 0 000 7 20 St. Lou1s at Dallas New York 0 000 10 24 Tampa Bay al Kansas City AMERICAN LEAGUE Washington 0 1 .000 10 26 Monday'a Game (Sept. 14) Eaal 
Central Oakland al M1nneso1a. n W L Pet. GB Tampa Bay 1 0 1.000 21 13 DetrOit 19 9 679 Detr011 1 0 1.000 24 17 Ba!t1more 16 11 593 2 5 Green Bay 1 0 1.000 16 9 Milwaukee 17 12 586 2 5 Ch1cago 0 000 9 16 New York 16 12 571 3 Minnesota 0 .000 13 21 Boston 14 13 519 4 5 
FOOTBALL 
Weal Cleveland 15 14 517 4 5 Atlanta 1 0 I 000 27 0 Toronto 13 13 500 5 Los Angeles 0 000 20 27 Weat San Francisco 0 .000 17 24 KansasC11y 14 14 500 NewOrfeans 0 000 0 27 Oakland 13 13 500 
Second Half Cahforma 11 15 423 2 AMERICAN CONFERENCE 
BASEBALL 

NATIONAl:. LEAGUE Texas 11 15 423 2 Eeal 
Eaal Ch1cago II 16 407 2 5 W L Pet. PF PA 
W L Pet. GB Seallle 11 17 393 3 Buffalo 0 1 000 31 
,

0 Sl LOUIS 15 10 600 Minnesota 18 379 3 5 M1am1 1 0 1 000 20 7 
Montreal 14 12 538 I 5 Baltimore 1 0 1 000 29 28 Ch1cago 13 15 464 35 Yealerday'a Reaulta New England 0 1 000 28 29 New York 13 15 464 35 New York 4. Milwaukee 2 New York 0 000 0 31 P1ttsburgh 12 18 400 55 Seallle 9. Ch1cago 5 Central Ph1ladelph1a 10 17 370 6 MtMtnnesota 4.Toronto 0 Houston I 0 1 000 27 20 
Weal Oakland 2. Texas 1 Ctncmnatt 1 0 1 000 27 21 
Houston 19 9 .679 Balllmore 9. Cleveland 2 Pittsburgh 0 .000 33 37 Los Angeles 17 11 607 2 Detro11 3. Boston I Cleveland 0 000 14 44 San Franctsco 16 11 593 25 Kansas Ctty 7. Cahfornta 1 
Weal Allan Ia 14 13 519 45 Today'aGam.. San D1ego 101000 44 14 Ctnctnnatt 14 13 519 45 Cleveland (Barker 7-5) at Ball1more (McGregor 9-3). Kansas C11y 0 1 000 37 33 San D1ego 8 21 276 11 5 n Denver 1 0 1.000 9 7 Milwaukee (Vuckov1ch I I ·3) at New York (John 7-5). Oakland 0 000 7 9 Yealerday'a Reaulta n Seallle 0 000 21 27 Ch1cago 10. St. LoUis 0 Boston (Torrez 7·2) at Detro11 (W1Icox 9·6). n 
P111sburgh 2-5. New York I -4 Seallle (Banmster 6-6) at Ch1cago (Troul7-5). n Leal Night'a Reault Ctnctnnatt 8. San Otego 7 Toronto (SIIeb 8-9) al M1nnesota (Havens 1·4) n San D1ego 44. Cleveland 14 Monlrea1.5. Ph1ladelph1a 4 Calilorma (Zahn 9-7) at Kansas C1ty (leonard 7· 1 0). Thuraday'a Game n
Houston 3. Allan! a 2 Pittsburgh al M1am1. n Los Angeles 5. San FranCISCO 1 Texas (Matlack 4· 7) at Oakland (McCally 10-6), n 


MORRffiSEYLOANFUND Student loans $20·$200 1 per cent Inter­est Due tn one month One day watt Open every class day II 30-12.30 1n LaFortune Basement 
TYPING' Fast. accurate 1yp1ng at reasonable rates ~ you need something 1n a hurry, I can type 1t lor you No 10b too biQ or too small Close to campus. Call Lynn Saylor, 233·3423, anyt1me 
RIDE NEEDED TO HOUSTON TEX FOR OCTOBER BREAK WILL SHARE USUAL. CALL CHRIS AT 1678 
REWARD: ND class nng stolen lrom Campus View apartment Fnday mght Reward offered lor 1nlormat1on teadmg 10 recovery of nng or assault of thtef lntltals MDL 1nslde Call272-8454 
FLOCMEETING 

7·00 ton1ght. LaFortune Ballroom 
leaturtng Machmes. Migrants and 
Monopolies An Agncultural Cns1s ·an 
award w1nmng slide show 
EVERYONE WELCOME! 
FLOC MEETING 

' ,,..... ,-.? ." :r-·~ ~ ! lJ...} ., ' 
~\....·~t' ...... ' .. 
1•••• _ .. __.._, ___ ' 
To the bum 1n Prof Gask1 s ITT3 Markel­tng class who found my wallet a"er class last Thursday and 1sn 1 man enough to gtve tt back: -I am st1U ottenng you a large reward for 1ts return but I guess by now you ve dec1ded to keep the money and the wallet HOWEVER, 1ta1l to see how you can gel any beneht trom having my dnver s license and military ID. too I hope you have hall a heart and can return at least these two 11ems Just slink 1nto Momssey late some n1ghl and shove 
!hem under the door ol Am 210. or at 
least tusl drop them somewhere on 
campus where some HONEST person 
can fmd them ancf return them 
PLEASE gove me a break 
LOST GOLD RALEIGH 5-SPEED BICYCLE ANY INFO . PLEASE CON· TACT JENNIFER MAGUIRE 6239 
The Observer tUSPS 598 9201 15 pubiiShPd Monday through Fr~ciay except du.,ng exa'll and vacat10n per~c>ds The Observer '~ published by the sturlents or fllotre Damp and Sa1nt Marys College Subsc.,pt,ons may be pure hased lor 530 per year t515 per semesten by wrot1ng The Ob­server, P 0 Box 0 Notre Da·ne In d1ana 46556 
The Observer '5 a 'llf'mbpr ''' the AssOtlat"d Press All r<>prc·duct,on r•ghts are reserved 
Found. Several1tems found at Freshman F1eld Day See Lost and Found 1n the Ad· m1n Building 
LOST N.D Class R1ng al Semor Bar Thursday Gold,blue sptral stone wrth N D engraved 1n stone Thomas E. Con­roy '82' engraved 1ns1de II found call Tom al 277-4924 
FOUND: .Silver Pen dunng last spnng s finals Call8791 and describe. 
r·-------·---... ·-..1 
FOR RENT ! 
"-------·· -·---·--·--·-··: 
Student housing. Umvers11y rated supe­nor Complete facilities. Clean & sale. Call 291-1405afterSept 1 
Effoc1ency apartments 100.00/mo Near Notre Dame On bus line. Call 255·8505 or 259-4629 
RENT TO OWN A COLOR TV OR STEREO CALL SUN APPLIANCE 291­5112 
House lor rent Walk to campus For 1nfo call J1m at 3234 
Need one male housemate For Informa­tiOn call232·6344 early or late 
UGLY DUCKLING RENT-A-CAR From $8 95 a day and 8 cents a m1le Phone 259-8459 lor reserva11ons. 
,__, 


I NEED TWO GA TIX FOR USC Ill! WILL PAY MEGABUCKSII' PLEASE CALL BETH AT 283-4236 
HELP' NEED 2 GAS FOR MICHIGAN STATE OR FLORIDA STATE CALL 8019 
NEED 2 FSU GA AND 2 MSU STU­DENT TIX TOM 1020 
Communn1st R V needs RED EAST PARKING PERMIT lor L S.U and espe­Cially MICH ST Please cal] 3667 or (717) 462-2745 collect lor T1m 
BALTIMORE I need one nder to Bal­timore. leave 9/17 return 9/20 II In­terested call J1m 8729 
't:f"\P "~ ~·. f r.: 
. "ler' .... .,.,, ., ... ·... 

\ ---·--·· __............. _ 
ALL YOU MCAT CANDIDATES!!! STAN· LEY KAPLAN BOOKS FOR SALE $100 CALL BETH AT 4236 
NEED TO REVIEW FOR THE MCAT? STANLEY KAPLAN REVIEW BOOKS FOR SALE ONLY $100 FOR THE WHOLE SET CALL BETH AT 4236 
·,• .......-. --~ ,..,--.........__.,............AI:--"""~•· ......_....... ~~""""'-~'.... '• -.~-.) • ""' 0 ' ,•·--,-..--·..-0 ~.................. -...... "' O,/)t •:-.~---":¥:'"":~1'f'l,_• ____ .:..
.... .ca--..,._...,~-·'T'''' 0'~ 
71 Mercury Wagon. good condl11on. $400 call Rob at 234·6298 
MCAT REVIEW BOOKS FOR SALE AAMC. BARRON'S AND ONE OTHER BOOK FOR SALE BEST OFFER CALL BETH AT 4236. 
For Sale -Couches. $30 up: Chatrs. $5 up. Free Delivery to dorm Call Mrs Cooper at 272-3004 after 12 noon 
For sale: spl'lngsteen t1xs 1hurs sep1.1 0 ch1cago. Good seals 287-9342 

Need LSU Student & GA's. Call Jack 1173 
Need 2 GA LSU 11cke1s Call Shtrley at 1 715 before 5 weekdays 
Need 2 Student lix lor LSU. Call John 3527 
t NEED TWO GA TIX FOR USC AND WILL PAY ANYTHING!!! CALL BETH AT 42361! 
Need 2 or 4 GA t1x lor LSU. MSU. or FSU B1g bucks. Call Stan. 3008. 
Help -Need 2 LSU T1ckels Call Jo 41­5236 
Desperately need 3 GA's lor PENN STATE Willing lo pay megabucks! Call PaMy 1321 
Need LSU GAs PAY MUCH$$ Call283­8598 
NEED 4 MICH ST TICKETS. CALL JOHN 1001 
WANTED Two GA 11ckets lor LSU Will pay good$$ Call Jeft-8862 
DESPERATELY NEED USC TIX FOR IRATE ALUMNUS!!! CALL CHRIS 1678 WILL PAY GOOD BUCKS. 
WANTED 2 OR MORE GA LSU TIX WILL PAY' CALL ROB 1628 
Need 6 G A. and 1 Stud. TIX lor LSU. Call CHIP3123 
Mega BUCKS lor 2 LSU/GA·s Call 7745 
WILL TRADE USC TICKET FOR LSU OR PAY W~T YOU ASK CALL JENNY 41· 4507 
Desperatty need 5 FLA State t1x GA or Student Jenny 41·4507 
Need I LSU student ticket Call Dan at 3597 
Will trade 2 navy GAs lor 1 Fla St. GA Call Colleen 34 77 
USC t1cket wanted. w111 pay mucho bucks Call Donna at6771 
1 ·LSU ticket wanted Money IS no obtecl Call Donna at 6771 
LSU ticket wanted Will pay mega-bucks Call Donna at 6771 
Penn St 11cket wanted Please call Donna at6771 
Wanted-2 GA LSU tickets-Call 233­8764 
Need 4 GA tix lor Penn Stale Call [)om, 3075. 
Need 3 or 4 GA t1ckets lor FSU game Call collect 219-362·4292 evemngs 
Need 2-4 G.A L.S.U tickets Call collect 
(318) 4 78-3502 (busmess) or (318) 477· 9540 (home). Ask lor Joe Fournet 
FOR SALE 1 STUDENT SEASON FOOTBALL TIX CALL DAR 7160 BEST OFFER' 
NEED 3 TICKETS TO LSU. GA OR STU· DENT. CALL SUE AT 41-5773 
FOR SALE One complete student loot­ball ticket best seats poss1ble Best after at 4604 
NEED 4 NAVY GAs Call Jon 8892 
DESPERATELY NEED LSU GA TIX $$$$$ CALL JOHN 1764 
Need 2 or more GA s lor LSU game Call8391 
FOR SALE 4 LSU GAS (2 PAIR) BEST 6FFER CALL CRIS 8360 OR TOM 8367 
Need I GA or 1 student llcket lor LSU game Call Dan at 287-9572 
NEED ONE LSU TIX! DIANE 277-8803 
HELP. I ONLY NEED ONE LSU STU TICKET WILL PAY$$$ THANKS CALL JIM. 8165 
NEED 2-4 GA TIX FOR ALL HOME FOOTBALL GAMES CALL. ART AT 1593 
DESPERATELY NEED TWO GA TICK­ETS FOR LSU WILL PAY YOUR PRICE CALL PAT 8635 
NEED PENN STATE TICKETS CALL 7905 
Need Flonda St. t1ckets. Call Steve 272· 2925 
Need 2 student LSU's Chns 3384 
For sale. 1 complete book of student loot­ball t1x. Best offer 8363 
Aelattve Nun Loves Faust. Needs tickets to LSU and FSU Call Dan Smith 234­8121 
NEED4LSUGA TIX CALL JOHN 1001 
I NEED LSU GA JOE 8810 WANTED FOUR GAS FOR THE LSU GAME TIX ARE FOR CORPORATE BRASS WHO ARE WILLING TO PAY TOP DOLLAR PLEASE CALL 234-0418 
NEED· 2 or more GA LSU t1ckets1 Call Laura 5272 
NEED TWO GA's TO ANY ND FOOT BALL GAME FOR DAD SECOND SEMESTERS TUITION COULD BE IN PERIL' CALL MIKE AT 1071 
SEX AND DRUGS are out ol the ques· t1on. bul I w1ll pay or trade ANYTHING else lor ONE USC GA ticket Call Anne Mane. 1291 
Help! Need up to 4 GA MICHIGAN ST hx so exctted rela11ves can see NO 1n action Call Pat860I 
Need 4 GA t1x to any home football game Call Rene 4408 SMC 
Wanted 2 GA t1ckels lor LSU Call 5135 SMC 
MICHIGAN IIX lor sale Patr. row 59. 35 yard line (313) 532-1313 or (313) 356­3696 
FOOTBALL -2 season 11x lor sate Best after (215)472-8174 
Desperately need 12 M1ch1gan t1x. Check my pnces Call M1ke 0 at 8661 Leave message w1th Sh~rley 1f necessary 
W1ll trade any home game ttcket tor one USC t1cket OR w111 pay cash Valene 6426 
For sale. 6 tickets to the Spnngsteen con­cert 1n Ch1cago on Fnday. Sept ·11 Call 6700 
Want to trade 2 LSU tickets lor 2 USC tick­ets Call Mananne 2733 
Need 2-4 GA lor Flonda Stale Prem1um dollar Call 2269 
Need LSU student t1ckets Will pay b1g bucks Call M1ke C 1744 
FOR SALE. 2 LSU GA's WANTED 
MSU student t1x Call V1nce 1238 
WILL TRADE 2 L.S U GA. s lor 2 MICHl· GANG A 's Call Darryl8297 
;---· _.._________, ·-.. -·--· 
1
f...>~"'nc::·,...... f"/1 ,..
1 I f.': J{ ,.J~-,1 \(. •. '\·' i 
I -·-----------· --.. ---_ _j 
ST JOSEPH'S MEDICAL CENTER IS A PROGRESSIVE 337·BED ACUTE CARE INSTITUTION. DESIRABLE JOB OP­PORTUNITIES ~RE AVAILABLE PLEASE CONTACT MIKE FERRY. EMPLOYMENT SPECIALIST AT 237­7865 OR PATRICIA SHEYKA. NURSE RECRUITER A 237-7275 
TAPS, KEGS, ICE, TUBS, QUARTS, CANS, CUPS. BLONDES, BRUNETTES, RED· HEADS. CALL TOBY AT 272· 1853 FREE DELIVERY !I 

2 SPRINGSTEEN TIX For 9110-BEST OFFER Call41·4562 
Hey Jo F Re1ner 
How could a such a wild woman bile the dust so soon? The btg affa1r must be durong sprong break. on the beach. com­plete wllh kegs and drugs Lois of drugs Andtheabusegoeson. andon andon 
-ATTENTION lADIEs-­
Mike "HOOKSETT" Breen would like to publicly announce hla new telephone numbar-
IMO So pick up the phone end gl.,. him • thrill; dial liMO. 
Scoop. what do you love now? Some stat­tars want to hear from you! 
Even m the m1dst ol hell art they lonely 
Who IS Joe Eby? 
SUZANNE. Please call me back' MARK 
The Zoo helped Jerry's K1ds Can we help you? 
II all happened last Saturday mghl II w1ll happen thiS Fnday, too Theresa place lor you allhe Zoo Bnng your gnu' 
EICHELBERGER 
you god. you pro, how much we apprectate you. you·u never know w1th ~trong arms, wtth strong hands. you've erected a masterpiece wh1ch st1ll stands So. any favor 
from us you may lease That's two favors one a ptecel 
AI any ttme, at any hour. come on over, you tower of power! OOOHWAH' Depraved & Deproved 
Help-Need 2 LSU T1ckets Call Jo 41 5236 
GIRLS GIRLS GIRLS NEED A DATE? Great took1ng transfer student 6'2" I 90 lbs dyong to meet a1ract1ve tadoes CALL 234-6647 ASK FOR MIKE 
Thanks 10 all the coaches. events per­sons, and everyone else who helped to make the ftrst Freshman F1eld Day a great success You were all wonderful! 
Tracy Walters Andy Lyke 

Farm Labor Organ111ng Comm1ttee 
FLOC IS hold1ng the hrsl general meet1ng TONIGHTII Iafortune ballroom. 7p m . EVER YON~ WELCOME' 
Who is Joe Eby? 
CRYSTAL ROCKS CRYSTAL ROCKS CRYSTAL ROCKS 

At lnsh Country th1s Sal nrte PARTY' 
..
_ 
• 
/ '. 

The ObserYer Tuesday, September 8, 1981 -page 8 
.... 
_
.. 
• 
NFL 

Chargers trample Browns 

ByBRUCELOWITT 
Associated Press 

CLEVELAND (AP) -Dan Fouts completed 19 of 2 S passes for 330 yards and three touchdowns in a near-record pert()rmance and Chuck Muncie rushed for 161 yards and a score Monday night as the San Diego Chargers buried the Ckveland Browns 44-14. 
Fouts, who shattered his own Na­tional Football League single-season pa..-;sing yardage record in 1980 with 4,"'1 S, completed IS consecutive pa..<;ses in one stretch, a club ~ecord and within two of the league mark, established by Baltimore's Bert Jones on Dec. 1<;, 1974, against the 
New York jets. 

In that span were third-quarter 
touchdown passes of 13 yards to 
rookie running back James Brooks 
and 4 yards to veteran back Hank 
Bauer. Fouts also connected with Ron Smith on a 38-yard TO pass in the fourth period. 
Brooks, the Chargers' No. I draft choice out of Auburn, opened the scoring with a 4-yard touchdown run in the first period. And Muncie, obtained in a trade with New Or­leans four games into the 1980 
season, matched his personal one­game rushing record of 161 yards, set in 1979 against Atlanta. Nine of his yards came on a touchdown run in the second period. 
It was a devastating performance by Fouts and his receivers, most notably Charlie Joiner who caught six passes for 191 yards. In all, the Chargers rolled up S4S yards on 67 plays, an average of 8.4 yards per play. 
Brian Sipe, the NFL's Most Valuable Player and statistical pas­sing leader last year, tried in vain to keep the Browns in the game. He completed a club-record 31 passes 

Ifyou're goingto take 
excruciating science courses,you'll needallthehelpyou can get. 

You'11 need the most advanced functions and programming features, 
Continuous Memory. and the most 
extensive selection of software solutions 
from the people who invented the 

handheld scien­tific calculator. 
You'llneed an HP 
The HP-41. 
All the help you can get. 
The HP-41 
is the most 
powerful hand­

held Hewlett-Packard has ever made. And HP offers four other scientific calculators to choose from. So visit vour nearest HP dealer for a hanus-on demonstration. Then buv an I-I P It mav
. . 

be the last l'asy thing you do for a_ long time. 
For Lil'rails and the address of the dcall'r in vour area. call wll frl'l': 800-'517-.1/tOO. Dept. ()581\J. l'Xccpt Hawaii and Alaska. In Ore~on. call 7'58-1 0 I 0. Or write Hew lett Packard. Con·allis. OR 97.1_10. Dept. ()'5RN. 
[hp] HEWLETT 
PACKARD 
on S-:' attempts for 3 7S yards, includ­ing touchdowns of 18 yards to Rickv Feacher in the second quarter and 4 yards to Greg Pruitt in the third quarter. Sip<: was also intercepted twice, the only two turnovers of the 
game. 

Rolf Benirschke kicked'field goals of SO, 43 and 33 yards to complete the scoring for the Chargers before a 
Municipal Stadium crowd of'7 8,904. That crowd put the NFL's season­opening weekend total at 866,788, surpassing the league's first weekend record of 837, 7SS set two years ago. 
The game was onlv 4:10 old when the Chargers took the lead on Brooks' run, capping a seven-play, S2-yard drive highlighted by Fouts' 16-yard pass to Dwight Scales on San Diego's first play of the game. 
The Chargers made it 10-0 with eight seconds remaining in the first quarter on Benirschke's s 50-yard field goal. The score might have been higher at that point except that 
Fouts fumbled the snap from center on a third-and-8 play just before the kick. 
Muncie sprinted 16 yards up the middle to the San Diego 49 and Fouts found joiner for 19 yards on 
the  next  play  to  highlight  that  
march.  
The  Browns got  back into  the  

game briefly on Feacher's scoring catch behind San Diego cornerback Irvin Phillips in the left side of the 
end zone 2:26 into the second period. But just 2:S8 later, the Chargers ope t ned it to 17-7 on Muncie's run 
two plays after he had danced around the left side of the Cleveland defense for 1 7 yards. 
And Benirschke made it 20-7 with his 43-yard field goal 3:4S from halftime. 
Dave jacobs, the journeyman placekicker who beat out long-time Cleveland favorite Don Cockroft for a job this vcar, failed on his onlv field goal atte-mpt of the night. ·a SO­yarder that fell well short seconds before halftime. 
U.S. men 

place third 
in Rome 

ROME (AP) -The American men's track and field squad missed possible glory as a superstar's pulled hamstring, a disqualified steeplec­haser, and a disappearing discus­thrower prevented a repeat of their 1979 victory in the World Cup. 
"We're having one downer after another," said {!.S. sprinter \lei l.at­tany, who streaked to victon· in the 200-meter dash Sunday in one of the team's bright moments. 
The U.S. team had to settle for third place in the World Cup at rain­drenched Olympic Stadium. Europe placed first and East Germany second in the thr<:e-day meet that concluded Sunday. 
Rut the Americans easilv would have placed second and would have been serious contenders for first with even mt·diocre pcrformanl-es hy Carl Lewis in the I00-meter dash. and hy John Powell in the discus. 
Lewis, who has b<:<:n compart·d to the legendary Jesse Owens. limped in last in tht· I00-meters on Friday, when he ran despite the injured hamstring in his right leg. 
Powell n<:ver showed up in Rome. although he'd sent a telex to U.S. Coach Jim Tuppeny saying he'd he there. Tuppeny had Brian Oldfield suited up and ready to substitute. hut the organizers said at the last minute that he couldn't compete be­cause his name hadn't been put in the computer for that event. 
· l'he Obsen·cr Tuesday, September H, 19Hl -page 9 
__ . .,..,. 
-----~-.--,.,.·~ , ___._...,__._.,......,.....llf>,,.__.._,.,,~-~----·-....,_.,-.,.._.,-~-~·"""'I''"'..,..M-,... ,......~•·••••"'"..,.,_._.,.,_,.,.,_ ..,.-.-,,_,.,...,_.., .. --·---·-·--· _ __,.,~......,_,_. ---·· .. --·-··-""·­

(m paf<e 12. (AP Photo) 

Open• • •  der the ye11ow. taking on four tirt·s and topping off thl' fuel He came out quickh·. rt·gaining tht· lead for good on lap _H~.  60.000 came early dt·spitt· dark douds that thrt·atenl·d rain early in the race. They were rt·wardt·d with hot, humid weathn. hut no rain.  
contiwwclfrom fUlf<l' 12 111 the dlrt•t'tion of the woman who had ntadt· the toot-fault t:all. The hall wTnt mto the stands and strtll'k a man·m tht• fact·. alrhough not injur­ong hun lmmnloatclv following tht· match. <r<·rulaltl~ wa' firwd g~<;o '" tht' <rrand Pnx 'IIPlTVI~or' tor 1he inci tit'Ill Crnul;lltl.., wa~ ~till ahead 40-1 'i. hut l.t·ndl lli111J'lt'd on \ 1ta< IH'Xl 'ern hlltmg a wmner down thl· I !Ill' I'hl' ( ..redlO..,Iovaki.m put th<' next ~t·rntT rl'turn at <.t-rulaitb' ftTt. pulling to dt·un· t...·ndl pas~ed <rerulaitis f•>r tht• ad­vanta~c tht·n hrokt 't'f\'1' when \Ita' rwttnl a \'olin· to takt· a +! lead. Lend! '>l'f\'l'd <IIOVt' g.1me lor a 'i-2 ;~tlvantage. thl·n won the st·t on his lll'Xt \l'r\'l'  Gcrulaitis finally pulled himst'lf togt•ther in the fifth st•t. recording the onlv break in the seventh game. Lend!. tht· top m~:n·~ seed to fall wa~ eliminated when, at llcut:e in the I Oth game. ht· returned a serve widt·. then netted a hat:khand <inulaitis failed to show up at a press intt·rvil'w after the matdl. tl'l lmg a pres~ room asSistant I'm going to )o!t t gm<'erin .. I It' t ht·n stepped 11110 lu~ \TII<>w Rolb Rovcc and ktt tlw ~itt· of Amt-rka·~ prl'mwrc: tl'nni~ l'\'t'lll Tht· Crrand Prtx ~upcrvisor~ ~aid !ht·v would notTt latn 1o dt·termint' the amount of the tint that will ht· lt-vinl agam't (rerulaill' for not atlt'nding thl' pre\~ conft·reiKc l.t·ndl said tht· crowd. whit:h wa~ roting tiJr (rerulaitis. hl'lped th<· New Yorkn "lktinitdv it make~ it c.1sil'r to plav wh~:n the <:rowd is hl'11ind you." tht· Czl·choslovaki;m said.  McEnroe hreezcd to his latest vic­tory in a hid to win his third con­~l'l"Utive l r.s. Opt·n singil's title:, a fear that ha.~n·t lwen act:omplished sinct' Bill Tilden in tht· 1920s. Tht· ldt­hantkr. who dl'feated Bjorn Borg to win \X'imhkdon in luh·. nt·n·r lost his ~t-rvt· . · lk broke Curren in the I 2th g;mw of the fir,t st·t. anti the ~outh Africm could hold hi~ own ,ern· onh· once more. in the fourth gamt' nf the third St'l · l'lll' othn time I plavt·d hun ( < .urren l wa~ \\ unhlnlon and 11 wa' a do~cr 111Jtch." \1d· nro< 'aid "I think he 'ennl a lot ht·trn then 1 put a lot mort· pre~sur<' on hm1 and kept the hall in pia\· "I think he rhoughr tllt'rc: would he ea~1er point' lor him to win" Sm1th ~aid ht·r nl·torv wa' "n11 biggest ~mgks w 111 " Ask.etl 11 11 pu.t h~:r in the running to capture till' title here. she ~aid. "you bet it dot·,·  Tht· gft'l'n tlag fdl with juM 16 laps to go. Waltrip was right behind the leader and stayed there till" re~t of tht· wa\· IIt-tried to pas~ Bonnell on the third turn oftht· tina! lap, hut the leader kndnl ofl the insid<' Ill() \"l' Dave ,\1arl'ls wa~ th1rd, tlefi-nding champion I <'rrv l.ahontt· t(Jurth and Bud•h· llaJ..n lilt h. all in Bu1cl-.' Tht' hr't II\'<'' ere Ihe onlv onc~lr<>lll till ·10-car lidd 111 IIH ~.1111<.: lap ;It thl' end llolliH'It, who lnl 'C\'t·n t1111e' J, 1r .1 tot;il •It..! I(> lap'. pi<'knlup the'' 111­ner·., 'hare ot S ~0. '>00 from t hi' total pur~!' ol S_~OO.IHIO llohh\ Alli,lln. rhe \\ in~ton ( UJ' poult kader never \\a~ a I<H'tor in the ran· in hi' new C:ht·vroll't \lonte C;irlo. lk fmi~hnt ninth and\\ alrnp l'lll h,,, It-ad "' Jll~t I H point~ \\ ith l'l'-:ht ran·s n·ma1ning on the (rrand :\atmnal .\t'IH'duk llarrv <ram and (.all' Yarhorough who start I'd SIJc-hv-~idt· 111 tht· lront  Harriers prepare Hy F.ARI. RIX .\purls It rtl<'' ~p1nh anti t'X)lt'l'tatu>n arl' run 11111g high lor tht· i'lootn· D;llllt' eros~ t'<>lln!r~ teJill. \\'llldl OJWns lt•••l"'· M'.J~on ~··pt I'J a! I >hio Stall' "I han·n't ~tTn 1hi~ rnudt t·n­tiH"ia~rn among the guvs 'Inn· l'n· hlTn hcrt·," ~;ml I It-ad Coach lot· f'1anc . The I9H I '<Jltad hoa~ts four rt·tunung ~tarter~ out ol ...t·n·n 'I hn art' junior Carl Biucchi and soplu;. llHJrt·s Andy Dillon. Ralph Caron. and Ti 111 Novak ~enior u1 t·aptain~ Pat .,ullivan  
. Robinson• •  row. lc>Ughr ir our tor tiH· ll'ad in the earl\· gomg. <;ant ~taved aht·ad until Yar borough finally pa~~nl him on lap '•2. <rant n·gaint·d tiH' top ~pot on lap  and Tonv llatherly. hoth of whom had daim to rht· numher om· .~pot in prl'viou~ st"ason~. hope to rt·turn to top form atl:r injury trouhlt·~ laM Sl'aMl!l  

continlledfrompaf<e 12 
Wht·n the tt·am started to lose Rose Howl gamt·s. 49­
9. and lose to Notre Dame. 40-12, and UCLA ever}' year. they hirt·d_lohnl\kKay, a jaunty Irishman with a houncy step, rl·ady guip. srnilt--and an offenst· that was as hrilltant a~ an autumn sunst·t. lie peppered his hack­tkld~ with the tleett'M set of runnns this ~idt· of a ~pring hock migration. and made "Fight On For USC" somt·­thing utht·r than a mockery in the <.olist·um air. 
When ht· lt-fi for the riches of tht· NFL. Notrt· Dame. the Big Ten. Stanford. Cal and I :etA ruhhnltht'ir hands 111 gltT It would ht· l'SC, turn in tht· harrd a~am. tht·' Wl'rt' ~un· .John Hohin~on look('d like a guv who t'ould lo't' gran·full\ \X'hk'h \\a' a good thmg. en·n·wH' kit WIKn he lost his mn.tugural. ·H•-2'i to \lbMHirl. alum~ got n·ad\ to ht·ar "l'SC? l.t·t'' St'l' That·~ the orH· in \\ l''twootl. rtght1'' .lg••in llow untld a guv who look~ likt· a Tedth lkar go to tht· Ro,t· Bowl' 
Notre Dame 
SEP  12  LOUISIANA STATE  
SEP  19  MICHIGAN dl  ANN ARBOR  
5EP  26  PURDUE  at  W LAFAYETTE  
OCT.  3  MICHIGAN STATE  
OCT. 10  FLORIDA STATE  
OCT. 24  SOUTHERN CAL  

Southern 500 
Bonnett narro-wly nips Waltrip 
I>ARUNCTO:'IJ. S C. (AI') Victorv-starved Neil Bonnett hdd off tenacious Darrell Waltrip's slate hid and came up with a tnumph Mondav in tht' Southern c;oo Grand :'llational stock car ran·. 
Bonnett's Wood Brothers Ford Thunderbird crossed the finish lint· hardv ahead of the front humper of Waltrip's Bukk Regal. 
It was the tirst victorv for tht· 
Mruggling )';-vear-old from Hul·vtown. Ala.. since the Talladega 500 on Aug. 3. 19HO. 
"We've put out ont· hell of an ef fort all year." Bonnett said happil} "The car has run like this before, hut we just couldn't finish. Something would always happen. 
"But the Wood brothers never gave up. Leonard (Wood) prohably hasn't slept three or four hours a night the last two wt·eks, working on the engines and trying to get them right." 
Bonnett, who never has done very well at Darlington International Raceway. added, "This is probably 
. 

the first time I've deserved to win 
here. l'vt· always run pretty rough 
hcf(>rt· humpn' into peopk and 
breaking cars " 
Bonnett kd s<:veral times earlv, 

hut he he~an to dominate the rat:l. 
after taking tht· top spot on lap 126. 
from that point until the t'nd of the 36""~-lap.evt:nt on Darlington In­ternational Ract·way's treacherom 1.366-mik oval. Honnt:tt fe11 out of the lead only during his pit stop~ 
Ill-madt: his final scheduled pit stop to change his right sidt: tirt:s and gasoline hd<>rt: flying hack onto the track in eighth place. Each of the otht:r cars in the lt:ad pack had to eomt" into tht· pits in tht· t·nsuing laps, and Honnett went hack on top on lap 29'J. 
Bonnett had a lead of nearly 2 1 seconds over Waltrip when the eighth and final caution flag t·anw out on lap 344 after Gary Balough hkw an engine on the front stretch and spun into the t·oncrete waH in turn one. 
Honnett wa~ the tirst of the leadt'rs to divt· hack into the pit~ un­
Momenb later. Yarborough's Buick was hack in the pit~ with a flat ttrt·. and tht· veteran from nt·arh\· Timmonsville, S.C.. f(lllnd him~dl ~ lap hehind the kadt·r~. 
The rat:e, punctuatt·d lw l·aution flags that slowc:d tht· p~ce, tht·n hecaml' a tough dud hl'twt·t:n Gant and Bonnett. ~ 
They took turns on top until Bon­
nt·tt wt·nt ahc:ad on lap l.l<l. Gant. 
still looking h>r his first <irand Na­
tional vit:tory after <)I start~ and 
eight second-place finishes, 
droppnl a lap ht•hind ht•t·aust· of a 
flat tire on lap I')() 
lk then hit tht• wall in turn four 
on lap 161. sliding at:ross the (rack 
to tht· harrier nl·ar the t•ntrann· to 
tht· pits hd(Jrc t·ontinuing around 
and into the pits. That brought out 
thl' sixth t:aution tlag of tht· after­
noon and cost Gant anothn lap 
Sevt·ral other drivns lnl hridly. induding Rkhard Pt·tty, who lt-ft with a hlown l'llgint• on lap 2""~'i. But llonnt•tt dominated tilt' last l'iO miles. 
Tht· holiday crowd of mort· tha~ 
USC ts more than a tradition. It's a football um­glomeratt:. Every one of the 90 athletes on the squad costs the foot hall operation !I0,000 a year,John Robin­son pointed out the other day, on the t'Vl' of his ~ixth st·aMm as t:hid exet·utive offker of this 5<)00.000 en­terpriSl· "It costs SI 0,000-per-year-pt·r-student." <.oach Robinson revealed. "You t:an't let a kid wastt· that" 
With a S40.000 car~:er investment in tht· kid. neither can the instttution let the t:oach waste it. You can't let a ~creamer. a punt:her. a dictator into tht· program anvmon· You can't he "(Jioorny Gill." or "The Iron Chancellor" or t•ven "The Tin (iod" anvmore You've gor to h<' linch-.fohn. ( )t cour~c. jj vou ve got 90 of the mcanist. rought·st. faste'>t and tou~ht·st t<>othall playl·r~ m the land under you. it'~ easy to go through lik look1ng Iike a hm\ I of' an ilia pudding w 1th a cherrY on top. Like. what'' there to get mad :1hout 
( l ) I 1JH I. l.o, ..\nj,(t:ln" riml'' :-,vnUKah: 
1981 FOOTBALL. SCHEDULE 


OCT. 31  NAVY  
NOV.  7  GEORGIA TECH  
NOV  14  AIR f-ORCE at COLO SPRINGS  
NOV  21  PENN STATE  at  UNIV PARK  
NOV ?8  MIAMI  at  THE ORANGE BOWL  

'i<>. 
The next time around. Yar­

borough toucht·d tht· wall in turn 
one and fishtailed. hut managed t<J 
keep the car undn control. 
But Bonnett ~lipped past him into 

~econd and. after .fimmv Mt·an~ hrought out the MTontl yellow tlag hv blowing an t·ngine and ~lidmg through turn .one into the infield gras~. Bonnett got out oft he pits first 
and took the It-ad on lap :o 
Fivt· highly toutl·d trnhrnt·n will keep their l'ldns on their tot·s. John Adam~. Tim Cannon, Bill Courtney. Bill Thl'i~en. and Jim Tykr all t'Oill·t~ to Nl >with imprt·ssiVl' pr~:p rtTords. 
Pianl' thinks that all this talt'lll is tostl'fing ht·althy compt·tition It should makt· hb joh hoth t'aMt'r and mon· difficult. "Wt·'·ll ha\'t' a ht•ttt·r idl'a of whl're wt· art· aftn 1-ritlay·~ timt· trials. At this point I'd ~ay that the outlook is l'Xcl'lknt," ~aid Piant· 
& 

SPICER PIZZA 
uf'eaturinJ( Eastern Style Subs" Complete Deli Sandwich Line 
~I

M· 31 ). SPlt:t:«'r 
~ .· . ~~ 0~ 
'-,....•• ~=: (,:-:'J,.i -·~Jot'!>) 
$1.00 off an_y lar!(e pizza with this\coupon 
Open 7da_ys -Open for lunciJ\ Mon. thru Thurs. 10:30 a.m. to 10:30 p.m. Fri. & Sat. till 1:00 Sun. 4:30 to 10~30 
1

just 3 minutes from Campus 1 
The Observer Tuesday, September 8, 1981 -page 10 
For Irish 
Baseball gets underway 

By TIM lARKIN 
Sports Writer 
The fall season for baseball ts similar to spring football. It is the time to regroup the team and evaluate the personnel. Coach Larrv Gallo, who had an impressive initial campaign of 23·16, will begin the preparation for the 1982 season this Sunday with a doubleheader on the road against Louis University. 
Gallo's main concern this fall will be replacing his two top starting pitchers. Mike Deasy( 6-2, 3.41 ERA) and Bob Bartlett (7-3, 3.79 ERA) started 21 games between them and have since graduated. 
Set to replace these hurlers arc juniors Bil Matre and Steve Whit· mycr. Last season Matre complied a 3·2 record m eight appearances with an even 4.00 ERA. Whitmyer was also 3·2 in seven appearances, but had a poor 6.75 ERA. 
"I don't think we'll get 13 wins 
from two pitchers like last year," 
says Gallo, "We have a young pitch­
ing staff and we'll use the fall to 
assess the talent." 
The offe'nse was responsibk for most of Notre Dame's success last yt~ar. The team batting average of .320 was second in Notre Dame his­
tory to the .332 mark set in 1980. This trend should contin_ue this year despite the losses of Jim Montan­gano(.397, lOdoubles, 7HRand42 


Registration foi-­Wll~rrn:rca~~ and 1PWil1IDWim 
football tickets lottery 
will take place on Mon., Tues., Wed., Sept 7'-9 
at the S.U. Record storelTicket office First Floor La Fortune 10-4 PM 
190 tickets available for each. ID's a must. WINNERS TO BE ANNOUNCED FRIDAY IN OBSERVER 
RBI)and Mike)amieson, whose .348 career batting average is third all­time. 
Among the returnees to lead the Irish attack is first baseman Henry Valenzuela. He hit .385 last season. drove in 44 runs. which is an Irish record, and led the team with eight homeruns. Infielders Rick Chryst ( .341) and Chuck Tasch (.337) will add offensive punch. 
The fall season will be helpful for Gallo to evaluate ·his freshmen. To strengthen his pitching staff, Gallo recruited righthander Bob Lopes from New Aedti:Jrd. Mass. He should help considerably," says Gallo. "He was highly recruited and probablv 
would have been drafted by a major league team had he not chosen to go to Notre Dame." 
Another highly regarded fresh­man is Jason Schomer. a shortstop from.Jackson, Mich. Schomer will be used as a utili tv infielder and will see action at second and third also. Other freshmen this year are catcher David Clark, second baseman .Jack Moran and infielder-outfielder Henry Lang. 
The Louis l Tniversitv doubleheader opens a IS-game scheduk for the Irish. On Saturdav, Sept. 19, Notre Dame opens at ho~e agamst Indiana State m a doubleheader, the first of etght games to he played at Jake Kline Field. 
St. Mary~s Bellesprepare for volleyball opener 
By DAVE IRWIN 
Sports Writer 
The Saint Mary's volleyball team is past the audition stage and working on refining its game for the season opener in the Angela Athletic Facility against Grace College on Sept. 22. 
Last week Head Coach Erin Murphy picked her 12-man squad, which includes talented newcomers Mike Maternowski (a transfer from Ball State) and freshman Ann Bout­ton. 
Boutton was especially im­
pressive in tryouts. "She is a 
tremendous assist to the team," 
Murphy said. "She has the potential 
to start right away." 
Maternowski also figures to see a 
lot of playing time. ''She is very 
skilled in all the fundamentals. We 
~:an use her at many ditterent posi­
tions," Murphy said. 
Murphy has to be optimistic after owning a 16-1 3·-~ record in 1980, including a sparkling 13-1 record against the Belles' fellow Division Ill schools. 
Returning from that team are 
Loret Haney, Mary Beth Hosinski, 
Peg Pieschel, Terri Walters, Rosie 
Whalen and Ellen Hoye. Rounding 
out the squad are Connie Adamo, 
Maura Bruen, Heidi Krumdieck, 
Teresa Rotta and Marianne Viola. 
Although sufifering no graduation 
loses, the Belles will be missing the 
services of Amy Terry, who is doing 
her student teaching. 
With the academic demands in 
mind, Murphy has cut down on the 
number of games this season. "We 
are playing fewer games becasue I 
think it is too taxing on the student 
athlete to be on the road thre(" or 
four times a week. We are still playing against many Division lii teams. which is what we must do in order to be a good team. We also play a good number of Division II teams to be prepared for the distict and·state tournament." 
Dan Anderson will join Murphy on the coaching staff. Anderson played for Kellog Community Col­lege. a periennal junior college power, before moving on to Ball State for his final two years. He aided his brother, Steve, at Mishawaka High School last fall as the Cavemen captured the Indiana State Cham­pionship. 
"I think he is going to be extreme­ly helpful," Murphy said. "The girls and Iar(" looking forward to working with him." 
Inside Interhall 
ByJIM KL"iNEY 
Sports Writer 
EDITOR'S NOTE -"Inside ND In­terhall" will be a regular week~l' feature in The Observer. Its aim is to keep students informed about upcoming events and deadlines as wellas indir•itlualand teamperfor­mances throughout the 1981-82 academic year in intracollegiate athletics. Since interba/1 competi­tion isjust nowgetting started, this week's edition includes only upcoming meetings and sign-ups. 
SIGN-UPS -Any off-campus stu· dents interested in playing soccer for the OC team can sign up in the main lobby ofthe LaFortune Student Center. 
The deadline for entries in the golf 
tourney for both men and women is 
tomorrow. Since there will not be 
teams repre!>t"nting each dorm. in­
lt~reste-d indir,iduaL~ should sign-up 
in the interhall office, C-2, in the 
ACC or call 61 00 
MEETINGS -A meeting is 
scheduled for captains of the 16­
inch softball teams this afternoon at 
4:30 p.m. in the ACC Auditorium ( first floor between football and bas­ketball offices). Attendance is man­ditory. 
Co-ree softball captains will meet this afternoon at 4 p.m.. also in the ACC Auditorium. Rules and schedules will be distributed, and once again, attendance is manditory. 
NEEDED -Referees are needed for women's flag football. Interested men or women should contact the NVA office at 6100 or stop by C. 2 of the ACC 




-----------..,.----­
The~======================================== 
T0 day==============T=u=e=s;:d=a=y,=S=e=p=te=m=b=e=r=8=,=1=9=H=I==p=a=g=e=I:::;l 
-----------------~-------------~ ·--­
Molarity Michael Molinelli 

Campus
Ht/.-LD, I J.JAS 7DLP
71-1£ U)JlVE:J?SITY HA.5 A RULE. 
10 Ct>H~ HIO.R£", IH...
77-/,.t;r AT L£}.5T ONE DOLPHIN 
•7 p.m. -floc meeting, lafonune ballroom,
HA~'1D Be ON 7He Ol££ff­
sponsored by floc, featuring "machines, migrants,
LE'AJ:€Ff SOVA-P ANP 'SINCE"' 

Doonesbury 
we'll£ I.WJ< AND rALJ<JNG WITH MA/?JITHON /WNNER 
Mi/£5 fWASH, AI/THOR. OF 
TUE ~SCi.LING ''THE 
Cf}';IPI£TE 8{)()( OF PI/IN. • I 
Simon 
cJ 1981 by Chicago Tribune-N.Y. News Synd. Inc. 
24 Ready tor Maglie Ave." commented Dedrick.
All Rights Reserved 
business 59 Golf mound 

and monopolies, an agricultural crisis." 
• 
II:I 5 and 3:30 -computer mini-course, intro­duction to jcl, l l <; ccmh. 

•7:00·9:00p.m. 
-workshop on the: professional statement. prof. tom marullo, lihrary auditorium. 

•7:00 
p.m. -ornhudsman organizational meeting, 2-d Iafortune: . ..... :00 p.m. -placemt•nt night, engineering col­kgc: placement night. auditorium-center for continuing ed, attention grad students. 


TelevisionTonight 

7:00p.m. 16 Lillie lloust· on till' Prairi<' 22 !\illy <iraham 1\altimort· Crusadt· 28 llappy Days 34 Nova. ''Linus Pauling. the Crusading 

Sdentist" 46 Mk'hiana Today 7:30p.m. 28 Laverne & Shirley 46 <iod's News lkhind till' Nt•ws 8:00p.m. 16 Tut·sday Night at the: Movies. ''Tht· Plan· to lk. Par\ II" 22 CBS Tuesday Night Movit·, 
"Strangas" 28 Thrt-c's Company 34 Awart·nt·ss in Drawing. Part I 46 Lt·stc:r Sumrall Tt·adting St•ric:s 
8:30p.m. 28 Too Clost· l<>r Comti>rt 46 Dwight Thompson 
9:00p.m. 28 llart to I!art 34 Tht· I >ucht·ss of I >ukt· Stn-ct 46 Today with l.t·sH·r Sumrall 
10:00 p.m. 16 Nt·wsCt•ntt·r I<> 22 l.l. Eyt•witnt·ss Nt·ws 
1.8 Nt·wswatch l.H 34' Tht· Dick Cavell Show 46 <iood Nt·ws 
10:30 p.m. 16 Tonight Show 22 <:aimon & The: Saint 28 ABC Nt·ws Night lint· 34 Captioned All< World News Tonight 46 Pattern for Living 
11:00 p.m. 28 fantasy Island 46 Praist· the Lord 
11:30 p.m. 16 Tornorro" Coast to Coast 
New landmark
ACROSS 32 Amo, -, 61 Fable man 25 Regulations 
62 Type of 26 Nebraska party city 
63 Part of 27 Crated By DAVE GROTE constant 36 Olympia's BPOE 28 -Wednesday Nt•u•s Staff fear milieu 64 Annealing 29 Quoted as 
This yt·ar as Notre: Dame students turned on torocks heroine 65 Wrongful 30 English Notre: Dame Avenue they c:ncountt·red a nt·w
..,..,...-+----<i---i----4 15 Goddess of 41 49-er act author 
the hearth 42 March date 31 Cloyed landmark, the N.D. mound. --+-.......,~4----l16 A Barrett 43 Took as DOWN 33 Ms de Mille The addition occurred as part of tht· annual 17 Absence of one's own 1 Employer 35 Hardy girl campus summer improvem't·nt projen, stated drunkenness 45 Extorts 2 Comic 37 Damage 
Director of the Physical Plant Donald lkdril:k. 
20 lnsurrec· money from Johnson 38. Talbot or 
Dedrick recdvt·d the idt·a from similar tksigns
lion 47 Ewe cries 3 Necklace Naldi at the llniversitic!> of Maryland and Wisconsin. The
21 "-vanity" 48 -Grande item 39 Foulard 22 Summer 49 Low voices 4 Italian 44 Preoccupy mound consists of hright yellow flowers, arrangt·d 
drink 52 Provincial wine city 45 Arm muscle in a supnimposl'd ND design. and bordert·d in 
23 Police expression 5 Stays away 46 Friable wood railing and set on a field ofgreen. 25 Slow trains 57 Subdued Irom soil 
<1eneral maintenance provitkd tht· funds at a 
--+-.......,~-129 Scribes remarks 6 Crusoe rT'an 48 Moving 
minimal cost. lkdrick expects a low-t·ost upkn·pof a kind 60 Aunts: Sp. 7 Org. machine hudgl't for the mound.
8 Reading part 
Dedrick stated that he re-mains convitknt that abbr. Scotland the landmark fails to invite vandalism hy area 9 Bill 50 Blue dye youths or disgruntkd football fans, despite this 
10 Young 51 Pierre's 
Monday's Solution 
direction: 49 Island off 
wn·ks incident. when a car ran ovn the N.D. 
salmon state: abbr. 
emhkm.

11 Christmas 52 Whip In addition to st·rving as a landmark, the mound
song 53 For fear 12 Opponent that providt·s an addc:d lane: to case traffk congestion 13 "Let me 54 Division bdore anti after foothall games. count Dedrick said that the reactions he rn:dvnl so far
word the-" 55 Deneb, support the new addition to tht· campus. 
18 Common lor one 
"Many pc:oplt sec: it as a definilu improvement to
abbr. 56 Army man: the once hkak-looking entrance:. The tn<.nmd
19 Fast waters abbr. 23 Hue 58 Mineo or promises to be a permanent fixture on Notre Damt· 

.. 
-
.. 

The N · D · Pre-Law Society Presents; 
Prof. Tom ffiarullo: A Workshop On The Professional Statement 


In The Lib. Aud. Sept. 7' 8., 9 
"' 

7:00-9:00 
Attention All Off-Campus Students 
SMC·ND Off-Campus Commission in conjunction with SMC·SABP 
f;·n~k~.T~~~t~~·~·d·th.·~·A.ii~·st~··F~~i~··*·f
. . 
~ 
...................................................................................' 
Thurs. Sept. ~0, 8:00 in O'Laughlin Aud. at SMC Tickets $2.00 (which includes free admission to pre-party) Pre-party plans to be announced! 
/. Tuesday, September 8, 1981 -page 12
Snorts 

Speed, experience 
Lin~ebackers solidifydefense 
By BRIAN lt.EIMER Coach Kelly declines to commit in 1979 was his series ofinjuries." Sports Writer himselfto a startingline-up for Satur· "Joe knows that Rick Naylor is day's Louisiana State game, until the breathing down his neck. The result 
Let the Notre Dame football conclusion of Thursday's practice is a fme competition for the left critics spend their time questioning session, but chances are that Crable, outside linebacker slot." Naylor, the depth ofthe Irish at various posi­Rudzinski, and Zavagnin will open who lettered twice under Faust at tions; just make sure they stay away the contest. "Nonetheless," he Moeller, saw action in all twelve from the linebacker spot. The Irish notes, "Rick Naylor had a fine spring games last year and, as mentioned are solid up the middle. There is no and fall. He merits top considera· above, had an outstanding spring other way to put it. Ifyou start with tion." and fall. All-American senior Bob Crable, Co-captain Bob Crable echoes john Rice led the Irish reserve add juniors joe Rudzinski and Mark Kelly's words. "We're a pretty sound linebackers in minutes last season, Zavagnin, and present a bench that unit. We have three returning start· playing in every game. In the words includes sophomore Rick Naylor ers, and Rick Naylor filled in ade­ofCoach Kelly, john is a "consistent, and senior .John Rice, you give quately for joe last season. We know reliable and talented man who is 
Coach Gerry Faust all he could each other's positions pretty well ready to play if necessary." He desire at the position. and we have some young guys who received the Hering Award last 
''I genuinely feel that this is one of can fill in." spring for being the team's most im· the best linebacking crews I've been There is very little that has not proved defensive player. lucky enough to work with," notes been said about Crable, who was The depth does not end with Rice. 
... Unebacking Coach George Kelly . voted the team's most valuable "Jack Shields is back," notes Crable, "Their combination ofspeed, steady player by his teammates last season. "and Mike Larkin (a freshman) is play, and playing experience in their Barring injury, he should leave looking good." The Notre Dame early years at Notre Dame creates a Notre Dame as the team's all-time defensive captain describes the really solid unit. They know each leading tackler. "Bob is extremely linebacking picture as "pretty other's abilities, they're responsible talented," in the words ofCoach Kel· good." Even 'this year's most for­
people, and they're consistent ly, "and he's utilized his God-given midable opponents would agree against both a rushing and passing ability to the fullest." -that Crable is understating the case. 'offense." Mark Zavagnin finished second only to Crable in tackles for the Irish IRISH ITEMS -Friday's season­last sea!ion, starting all twelve games opening pep rally has been moved
USC coach at outside linebacker. Kelly outside in anticipation of a large describes him as a "total player who crowd affiicted with Faust has grown in his position by taking Fever .. .instead of the Stepan Cen­advantage ofhis experience." ter, the normal site, the rally will be
Robinson doesn't look the part 
joe Rudzinski started all twelve held on the Stepan basketball 
games last year at the left outside courts ...this Wednesday on WSND EDITOR'S NOTE -The Observerwelcomesjim Mur­linebacker slot, finishing fourth on AM64,)obn Lewandowski will inter­ray to itssportspages today. Murray, honored 14 times the team in tackles. "joe is a very view LSU coach )eery Stovall on the
Jim Murray 
as the sports writer ofthe year, is a nationally syndi· tenacious player," claims Kellv. "the Sports Showcase show, which cated columnistfor the Los Angeles Times. Sports Writer only reason we hesitated to pl~y him begins at 6:10p.m. 
He doesn't look like a football coach.-He looks like 
Best of Jim Murray
your Uncle joe, a malted milk with a whistle around its neck. He has this appealing stammer when he gets 
Gerulaitis, Smith
excited, which is often, the world's biggest Easter rab· · Ditto, USC. At USC, the football team has its institution. bit, a marshmallow sundae. Yale could go 5-6, or even 2·8, with a shrug. IfUSC does You know how football coaches are. Blue bearded, it, the stock market trembles. red-necked. They wrestled a bear or rode a shark or ate Lots of people think it's easy to coach at USC. That 
upset opponents
light bulbs when they were young. They played on a practice field full of all-state tailbacks, 18-inch necked team known as the Seven Blocks of Granite or the linemen, the flower of California's junior colleges, the NEW YORK (AP) -Flamboyant Korea 6-1, 6-0; No.6 Sylvia Hanika of Dream Backfield or a Team Named Desire. They're future Green Bay Packers before your very eyes. 
Vitas Gerulaitis regained his com­West Germany eliminated Sharon aloof, stern, forbidding as a German field marshal, and That's exactly why it's difficult. Football put USC on 
posure in the ftfth set after disputing Walsh, 6-~ 7-5 and surprising Bar­they're nicknamed "Grizzly" or "The Iron Major," "The the map, not vice versa Yale might have made football. a foot-fault call and upset third­bara Gerken, a high school senior Wizard" or "Close The Gates Of Mercy." They wack But for the little-known Methodist institution out in the seeded Ivan Lendl ofCzechoslovakia 
from Thousand Oaks, Calif., defeated
players alongside the helmet, kick butts, read Von wilds of Los Angeles, the opposite was true back in the in the quarterfinals of the U.S. Open 
)o Durie 7-6, 6-1. Clausewitz for pleasure, and growl a lot. They view the '20s. USC needed, needs football. A private institution, tennis championships. 
In late women's matches, No.3

field from a lofty tower, they preserve a mystique about its athletic glories have made it a quazi-public trust. Gerulaitis, seeded I 5th in the Tracy Austin met Rosie Casals and
their profession. They talk ofcharacter, but they suit up Other schools can lose. USC can't even tie. competition at the National Tennis No.I 1 Barbara Potter took onpool-hall thugs, illiterates, and guys they have to hide Howard jones made USC a national eminence. He Center in Flushing Meadow, ousted 
Andrea Leand. The tournament'sthe coeds from. It's known as doing-what-it-takes-to· was hired for precisely that purpose. A spare, fussy, as· Lendl6-3, 6-4, 3·6, 3·6, 6-4. 
seventh-seeded man, Gene Mayer,win. cetic Paul Brown type of man, cerebral, humorless, he 
In another upset, Anne Smith played Ramesh Krishnan ofIndia.So, how come the second winningest active coach in fielded teams that were like himself, relentless, pefec· eliminated eighth-seeded Pam Playing his best tennis in morethe business seems more like a plate of fudge than a tionists, not terribly imaginative, but implacable in Shriver 6-4, 1-6, 7·5. than a year, Gerulaitis rode his block of granite? How can a guy who pleads with his pusuit ofgoals. They went about their work as unemo· The tournament's top seeds and 
booming serve to capture the firstplayers compete with a coach who pummels them? tionally as glaciers. Fathomable but unstopable. The defending singles champions, John 
two sets. Then came the foot-fault How can players put out for a guy who doesn't singe longer the game, or the seaS<>n, went, the more M.;Enroe and Chris Evert Uoyd, easi· 
call in the sixth game ofthe third set.
them with contempt, mock their mistakes, whose overpowering they got. "The Thundering Herd," the ly moved'into the quarterfinals. Con­The two had traded service br~aksnickname is "Uncle Robbie," not "The Headman" or press called them, factually, not flateringly. A stampede, ners stopped Kevin Curren ofSouth and Geruaitis was one point away"Old Blood And Guts"? 
not a team. Africa, 7·5, 6-0, 6-I, while Uoyd 
from moving in a 3·3 tie, leading 40­john Robinson seems too nice a guy to coach the Uni· Then the alumni got blase. They thought USC didn't crushed No.12 Bettina Bunge of 
love. The call visibly upsetversity ofSouthern California Trojans -or anyone else. need football anymore. It had made its point. Nobel West Germany, 6-2, 6-0. 
Gerulaitis. 
The USC Trojans, after all, are not Harvard or Cal Tech. winners are nice. Rose Bowl winners are nicer. In the In other matches, No.4 Martina On the next serve, Lendl hit a win·
They're not even Stanford. It's like the old joke about counting house. Navratilova defeated Kathy jordan, ncr and Geculaitis slammed the ball 
Germany: Some countries may be said to have their 6-0, 6-I; No.5 Hana Mandlikova own armies. In Germany, an army has its own country. See ROBINSON, page 9 demolished Duk Hee Lee of South See OPEN, page 9 
.. 

JOE RUDZINSKI MARK ZAVAGNIN JOHN .RICE 6-3, 225,Jr. 6-2, 225,Jr. 6-3, 220, St·. No. 51 No.46 No.45 
Fannington, Mich. Evergreen Park, Ul. Cuyahoga Falls, Ohio 










