..-------------------------------~~---------------~­
, , Irish Extra -page 9
• 

Reagan chides Israeli 
anti-AWAC criticisDl 
WASHINGTON (AP)-Prt'sident 
four dccadt's can't be turned around Rt'agan said yestt'rday the United 
in eight months." States "will not pt·rmit" Saudi Ar<!bia 
•Said ht' supports, in principle. 
to fall victim to revolutionary extension of the landmark Voting takeowr and inuirectly but unmis­
Rights Act. Hl' dcclinl'd to say in takeahly rebuked Israel for lobbying 
what form. against tht· propost•d sale of AWACS 
Reagan ddendl'd tht: AWACS sale radar planes to the Saudis. 
as Sccrt·tary ofState Alexander Haig The president ddended his plan 
tt'stifieJ on Capitol Hill in an effort 10 sdl SH. S billion worth of plant·s. save the pat·kagt', which St'natc
to missiles and other cquipmt'nt to the 
Republican Ll'adt'r Howard Bakt'r Midcast country as vital to protcct­
has said lacks enough votes to pass i~lg the vast Saudi oil fields that play a Congtt·ss. major rolt· in fuding tht· economics 
"I havt' propost'd this sale bt'eause of the westt·rn world. 
it signitlcantly enhances our own vi­Without mt·ntioning Israel hy tal national security interests i~ the namt-, lh"agan said: "American 
:\1idtlk East, .. Rt'agan said. "The sale st•curity intert'sts must remain our 
will greatly improve the chances of intnnal responsibility. It is not the our working constructively with business of other nations to make 
Saudi Arabia and otht'r states of the American foreign policy." :\1iddk East toward our common Reagan's remarks were at a nation­
goal: a just and lasting pt·act'.". ally hroatkast news conti:rence, his 
Replying to concerns of Israel and first t4.mnal mn·ting with rt'porters 
its congressional allies, the presi­in more than thrn· months. 
dent said the package "poses no "Wekome to my tlrst annual news 
threat to Israel now or in the future. conft-renct·," he joked. 
Indet'd, hy contributing to the The president also: 
security and stability of a region, it 
•Vowed 10 usc his Vt'to against 
servt·s Israel's long-range interests." spt·mling hills that would "bust the 
~k said chances for Senate ap­bllllgt·t and violatt· our t·ommitment 

&Iucation limits Sino view

proval ofthe sale are good as a result 
to hold down ft·deral spending." 

of negotiated arrangements with the 
• Ddi:ndcd his campaign to slash Saudis about joint lJ.S.-Saudi man­By MICHAEL WILKINS above all, over access to all informa­Chinese students attl·nded collegt·spt·nding for social programs and 
ning ofthe ain.:raft. Hut he did not go tion," Burns said. IIt' added that this
Neu•sStaff in the same proportions as students
said the "Mtfety nt:t" to protect tht· into dl'tail and therl' was disagree­control seriously limits tht· things in tht' Unitt·d States tht're would h<:" poor "is still in place." Latl'r, he said in over whether people about

rnt'nt Congress The Chinese pt'ople and the Chint'sc karn tht· more than I Z million Chinl·se stu­
everyone "totally dependent on the 

those arrangements, outlint•d by world outside of China.
Chinese higher education system dt·nts, an:ording to Burns.
govt·rnment" arc: "our obligation 

Haig, represt·nted anything new. In the Chinese l'dueation system,
wert' discussed in a lcuurc last night The education rn:l'iveJ by stu­and nothing b going to h;1ppen to 

Asked if he t'Otlfd assure that the research is separated from educa­
by Dr. Robert Burns, a professor dents in China is vny limited,them." 

A WACs would not hy taken ovn by tion. This separation. Burns feels.
from Indiana University. especially with rq~ard to the outside
•Noted that yesterday wot~ the 

an cnl'my if the Saudi government Burns dis<;usscd the lack ofhigher will be very harmful to the chinese world. "Thl· campus of a school like start of tht' govt·rnment's hookkct'p­ti:ll in a revolution similar to tht· up­people in the long run.
education in China, a problem ht' Indiana or Notre Dame is the wholt­ing year when most of his budget 

ht'aval that deposed the latt' shah in "Separating education from
blamt'd mainly on the dictatorship world," Burns commented. "Theand tax cuts oftkially took cfft'et. 

Iran. Reagan assertt'd: "I can make rt'search is going to have a damaging
in China. campus of a univt·rsity in China is"Our programs won't he instan­effect on the future ofChina. There's China."

See REAGAN, page 4 "The government exercises com­tant·ous," ht· said. "The mistakes of no bettt'r way to hinder an educa­
plete control over education, and Whik on his month-long journl'y, 
tion than by this ml'thod," Burns ex­
Burns noticnl that the population of plained. 
China posed a special problem for Burns, who Wot'i rcqut'stcd to 
the country, in addition to adding to make his trip to China as an ex­other problems.

Blast destroys PLO headquarters change bt'tween the American 
Tht' hugt' density of population Academy of Sciences and the forces tht' govl·rnmcnt to plat·c minded the 1972 massacre of I I Is­restrktions on the numbt'r of

BEIRUT, Lebanon (AP) -A car-bomb was only a few dozen yards Chincsl' Academy of Sciences, ob­bomb t'Xplt>sion ripped through the from the block of apartment and raeli athletes at the Munich served that a very limited number of children Chint'sc families are nerw (.'l'nter of the Palestine Libt'ra-offict' buildings hit in a July I7 air 
Olympics and the 197S siege of the Chinese attend higher education in­allowed to haw. If a family has onlytion Organization yestt•rday leaving raid that killed more than 500 Pales­stitutions. The country of ap­
Sau<,Ji,Embassy in Khartoum, Sudan, one t'hild, there arc no penalties at le:L~t 40 dead and 247 wounded, tinians and Lebanese civilians by proximately one billion people hot~
in whiclh the U.S. ambassador, the imposed by tht· government.poliet' said. The PLO said no ranking govt'mmcnt count. 
deputy chiefof mission and the Bel­only one million people attending 
See BURNS, page 4

guerrilla wot~ hurt, but anothct Beirut state radio quoted security its colleges and universitit's. If
gian charge were murdered. group said a PLO central Committee sources as saying two other booby­member wot~ killed. trappt'd cars were found in the same --------­Witnesses said the blast st't off area and the explosive charges firt's. rt·uuced 60 cars to scorcht·d defused. metal, splintered telephone poles The staff offices of Yasscr Arafat's 
Saint Mary 's offersinternships
and hurled hollies through the air as top security chief, Salah Khalaf, 
it tort' through PLO offkes on Bus-whose guerrilla code name is Abu 

By MARY SIEGER panics such as, Merrill Lyn<:h, Bendex, and First Source tani Strt't't in Moslem West Beirut. Iyad, were among the heaviest hit at 
News Staff Bank to name a few. Along with the opportunity to app­One explosivt's experts t'stimated one end of Bustani Stret't. 
ly class work to the business world, students can make 220 pounds ofTNT went off. But Abu Iyad's thrt'e-floor per-
Although most people aren't aware of it, I 0 depart­contacts that may be helpful when applying for jobs. No group claimed responsibility, sonal headquarters appeared intact 
ments at Saint Mary's College offer internship programs The Communications and Theater department offers but the rightst Front for the Libera-on the block, which was a sea ofred­
to their students. These programs arc open to seniors interships to both Saint Mary's anti Notre Dame stu­tion of Lebanon from Foreigners has dish brown mud formed ,___ water 

and qualified juniors. dents at Channncl 16. The department is now in tht' stagt'd similar ear-bombings against from firemen's hoses a ..._. sand 
Within the Biology department there are two final stages of "adding ten more internships at Channel PLO• targets in the past two weeks, spilled from burlap bags barricading 
programs ofered 34," notes department head Mitchell Lifton. leaving S4 dead. The PLO s<tys the· PLO offices. 
to Biology 
"If everything goes well, we might be able to offer group is an Israeli front, and that Abu Iyad, who the PLO contends 
majors. The first these intt'rnships next seml'ster," he said. StUdl'nts in­"Israel and its agt'nts in Lebanon" set is on Israel's most-wanted list for his 
is a program in volved in these programs receive the opportunity to off the latest bomb. alleged leadership of the "Black Sep-
Medical Tech­apply thl' theoretical and the practical ot'ipt'cts of Primt' Minister Shafik Wazzan of tember" organization, made a brief 
nology and the working at a television station. Lebanon also blamcu Israel for the inspection tour of the devastated 
second is in The Saint Mary's Career and Guidance departmentattack. "Israel, which has now been area three hours after the blast. 

Cyto-technology. Before entering the program, three offer a different type ofinternship. These are offered to prevented from launching furthn Guerrillas in olive drab uniforms 

years ofstudy_i\re required. In the fourth year, students junior and senior Liht'ral Arts majors. They arc designt'dsurrounded Abu Iyad as he picked
air attacks on Lebanon. hoto; now work in a hospital or clinic. to give these students a skill that is within their majorresorted to otht'r methods for which through the charred and tangled 
"Becoming involved in either of these programs and it helps tht· student to apply tht'ir Liberal Arts it is eitht'r directly responsible or by metal of bombed-out cars. Security 
helps the student greatly when it is time for her to earn education. "It also shows employt'rs the importance of using its agents in Lebanon," he said. guards herded a reporter away and 
her certification," Saint Mary's Biology Department having a Libt'ral Arts education," states Kathy Farrar, ad­Ht' was referring to a July 24 confiscated film from three photog­head David Sever stated. ministrative head ofthe program. ceoto;e-fire that stopped two weeks of raphers. 
In the Buisness department, seniors are placed in a The Education Department offers student-teachingPLO-Israc:li fighting. Although ht' denies the charge, 
job with. a company that is related to their intended The art'a devastated by the car Abu Iyad is reputed to have mot">ter-field. Saint Mary's students have been placed in com-See FOCUS, page 4 




News Brie/§ 
Friday, October 2, 1981 -page 2 
by The Observer and The Associated Press 

Help or harm?
Guns once owned by Ernest Hemingway, Charles 
Lindbergh and Kit Carson will be among S2 million worth ofrare and historic firearms to be auctioned in New York City Oct. 7. Christie's will conduct the sale of 1 1 5 pieces in conjunction with Colt Firearms of Hartford. The stars of the show are a cased pair of Colt "Dragoon" revolvers engraved by Gustave Young about 1856. The scrolled, ivory-handled set is expected to bring about 5250,000. Ad· mission to the auction at Christie's is limited to those who have 
purchased the $25 catalog describing the pieces to be sold.-AP 
Community concern over the dangers or a 
toxic chemical prompted a municipal jury to acquit a Cleveland Heights high school teacher ofa malicious mischiefcharge for paint· ing the letters "PCB" on a utility pole. Thomas K. "Kim" Hill, 38, contended he was trying to warn the public of the dangers of polychlorinated biphenyls, commonly used to insulate electrical capacitors. The chemical is used locally in equipment on Cleveland Electric Illuminating Co. utility poles. "I could have used better judgment," Hill said. "I was upset ... I felt I should warn the public." 
-AP 

Former Premier Petar Stambolic, a close aide of the late President josip Broz Tito, has resigned from the Communist Party's Presidium, the Tanjug news agency said yesterday. Stam­bolic, 69, resigned at "his own request" late Wednesday day after a day-long session of the party's policy-making Central Committee. Tanjug said. It gave no reason for his resignation. A veteran Com­munist who held commanding posts with Marshal Tito's partisans in World War II, Stambolic served as Yugoslavia's premier from 1963­1967. He was replaced in the 23-member Presidium by Dragoslav 
Markovic, 61, president of the National Assembly, or Parlhnent. 
AP 

Most of the 6,600 Spanish prisoners who went on a hunger strike Saturday ended their protest yesterday and gave the government 30 days to meet their demands for better prison condi­tions, officials said. Those who ended the strike included the 2,000 inmates at Barcelona's model prison who launched the protest, which quickly spread to 32 o.ther· Spanish jails. Officials said the protests were peaceful. Prison and justice Ministry sources termed "reao;onable" the inmates' demands, which included penal code reforms, speedy trials and an end to jail overcrowding. Spain's prison population numbers 22,000. -AP 
Sen Gary Hart, D-Colo., and his wife, Lee, plan to end their 23-year marriage, Hart's Washington office says. A state­ment released by the office Wednesday said, "With regret and mutual respect, Lee and Gary Hart have decided to dissolve their marriage." "We have nothing further to say," Mrs. 'Hart told Rocky Mountain News from the couple's suburban Maryland home. The senator was not available for comment Hart's press secretary, Kathy Bushkin, said she could not sav when or where the divorce would take place. Hart married the fo~mer Lee Ludwig in 1958. They have two children, aged 1 0 and 12. -AP 
Actor Richard Harris, suffering from exhaustion. will not return to Detroit to complete his engagement as King Arthur in the play "Camelot," but will rejoin the cast when the play opens in New York Oct. 31, producers say. Harris, who was hospitalized last Friday after complaining of chest pains during a performance, was released earlier this week and went to his home in the Bahamas. Doctors prescribed three weeks of rest. Producers of the show in Detroit said Wednesday that William Parry would complete the engagement, which concludes Oct. 11. -AP 
They may have to toss turkeys from a hot air bal­loon, or they may fling fowl from the roof of the local courthouse, but the folks in Yellville, Ark., will find a way to hold their annual turkey drop. Terry McPherson of Yellville said last week that the turkey drop, part of the Turkey Trot Festival, would have to be can­celed because he couldn't find a helicopter pilot to fly over the town. They used to use an airplane but members of humane societies ­who object to the turkey drop -tattled to the Federal Aviation Administration. The FAA prohibits airplanes from flying lower than I,000 feet in congested areas. McPherson said a helicoptercould dip to 300 feet. The nearest helicopter he's been able to find is one owned by. a Missouri man who said he was interested in the Oct. 9 and IO festival in the north Arkansas town of 1,031. On Wednesday, 
however, plans for the drop were still up in the air. -AP 
Becoming mostlysunnyFriaay. High in the mid to upper 50s. Clear and frosty Friday night. Low in the mid to upper 30s. Sunny and not quite as cool Saturday. High in the low to mid 60s. 
-AP 

Nowadays, virtually anything short of personal cor­respondence is computerized. Magazine subcriptions, junk mail, bills and University records are -all stored on "discs." Computerization, however, is not new. What is new is that the Computer Age !s becoming affordable. 
Computers are no longer merely within the price range ofthe nation's top corporations, and this fact has tremendous implications. Home computers are now being advertised and can handle everything from budgets, correspondence, grocery lists and tax com­putations. Jimmy Carter, incidentally, is writing his memoirs on such a "word processor." Albeit such a gadget may not yet be within the reach of the middle class, neither was the calculator when first marketed. 
Within the last year, videotaping has become the newest 'necessary' luxury for that proverbial good life. It soon appears the VCR will be to the '80s what the color television was to the '50s. In the corporate sector, computers are fast doing away with typewriters. Why type when a word processor can correct, rearrange and print in a matter ofseconds? 
Even the future of the printed page is somewhat shaky. The current issue ofNewsweek reports that just last week American Telephone & Telegraph and CBS said they were considering jointly producing a "two­way information and com­munications" system. 
AT&T controls 80 percent of the nation's telephone lines; CBS pos· sesses vast resources of in­formation. By connecting info bank to phone line, con­sumers could conceivably then get news faster, and by merely pushing a few but­tons. Such is the stuff of which conglomerates and goldmines are made. 
Not only the newspaper is in trouble; the future of the movies could take a similar path. Should cable TV revolutionize America iike TV did, the need to "go see" a movie could become obselete. One need only turn on the proper circuit or purchase a particular disc. 
These examples typify the current computer age, the electronic rage which is softly sweeping the eighties. Banks now offer customers the option of having access to their money any time of day or night, thanks to a computerized card which will record transactions when employees have called it a day. 
The computer is a valuable tool; none of you would be able to have this paper in your hands without the aid of computer technology. The computer in the home, however, poses a fascinating set of implications and ramifications. 
Being able to hook into a wire service to get the morning's news, choose your cinematic entertainment, tell a computer how much money you make and let it worry about budgeting, have a computer answer your phone. take your messages, write your letters and pay your bills -are all technically possible at the present time. 


The options are limitless and appear as boundless as 
the imagination itself. Now the wildest dreams of 
science fiction writers appear to be not so fictive after 
all. How all of this is going to affect lifestyles in the 
future is thought-provoking. Should computers 
become at home on the home front, think of how com­
plex life would become. · We appear to have an implicit commitment toward technological progress. Scientists invent and then leave it to society to make use oftheir inventions. The car, the airplane, the television all had tremendous social im­pacts, for they all placed a little more of the world into our palms. 
But ifwe continue to tly headlong into the electronic 
age, perhaps we should take a moment to reflect on the ramifications of com­puterization. It has its definite advantages, but are we going to carry it to the point of dehumanizing our lives? The digital watch, a sort of micro-computer, is a par­ticulary good example. Many young children no longer know how to tell time from a traditional clockface; their concept of time stems from the pre­calculated digital clocks and watches of there environs. And if home has solely digi­tal clocks, how can a child learn to "tell time?" Then again, does he need 
Observer notes. to' _______, 
The Observer is always looking for new repor­ters. Ifyou like to write and can devote a few hours each week to reporting, visit our offices on LaFortune's third floor. Talk to one of our news editors. They'll be happy to help you get started. 
We also have openings for late-night production workers. Prior experience is not necessary; we will train applicants. Promotion to paid positions depends on the quality ofwork. 
The Observer newsroom welcomes information leading to the investigation ofcrimes in the Notre Dame-Saint Mary's community. If you have wit· nessed a crime that should be reported, call our offices at 283-8661 or I 715. All sources are guaranteed confidentiality. 
The Observer is your newspaper. Comments and constructive criticism are appreciated. Stop by our LaFortune ofi1ce, give us a call or drop a line to The Observer, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556. 
r-The_ObserYer_ Design Editor... ................. Maura Murphy Design Assistants. . ............. Polly Hudak Kevin Canfield Layout Staff......................... Mike Molinelli Typesetter.......... .. ...... Bruce Oakley News Editor ........................ Tim Vercellotti Copy Editors ............................... Rich Adam Steve Navarre Features Layout .............. Anthony Walton Sports Copy Editor.............. Chris Needles Sports Supplement............. Skip Desjardin Greg Swiercz, Mike Monk Typist ..................................... Dodec Carney Systems Control ................... Bruce Oakley ND Day Editor........................ Paul McGinn SMC Day Editor............... Mary Kay Hogan Ad Design ....................... Fran, Mary, Corby Pbotograpber ......................... Cheryl Enelt Guest 1/lustrator ........................ )eb Ca.•hin (It wa.• too late 10 call, Dennis) Guest Appearances .......... Griffand Darby Peace and Quiet The Devil, passing by, exclaimed: "Me!hought myself again in hell to be."  
The Observer (USPS 598 920) is published Monday through Friday and on .home football Saturdays, except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is published by the students of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Col­lege. Subscriptions may be purchased for $25 per year ($15 per semester) by wrrt1ng The Observer, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. The Observer is a member of The Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. Second class postage paid at Notre Dame, Indiana 46556.  

::::::;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:::;::~: 
ljlj' '[l~\
American University 
~ • 
« 

i 


Separate programs in Programs Include *American Politics *Seminars with decision makers *Criminal Justice *Internships on Capitol Hill, in government *Urban Affairs agencies and with public interest groups *Economic Policy *Research with guidance by University professors *Arts and Humanities *Specialized courses in a wide variety of disciplines *Foreign Policy *Campus housing if desired 
*Journalism For further information, contact: ·,·, The American University Dr. David C. Brown, Executive Director ,.,. 
~~~~ 

~~:=~:~~ ~~~~tunity/ ~~~:;~!~t~:i~:iograms ~~~~ 
~;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;~;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:~;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;::f.~ 

.----------------------------------------~------~~~-·--~· --~­
The Observer Friday, October 2, 1981 -page 3 
'College to Career Days' 


Panel discusses lifestyles 
By KAREN MIRANDA 

Nell's Staff 
Apanel offive women gathered in LeMans Hall last ni!'ht to discuss various lifestyle alternatives available to women. The women. all in thl'ir late 20's or older and possessing established careers, represented a range of positions within society. 
Topics of discussion included the choicl' between marriage and singlehood, and the conflict he­tween parenting and pursuing career goals. 
The panel discussion was held as a 

part of the week-long College to Career Days 1981 Program at Saint Mary's. The program is being sponsored by the student govern­ment and the Counseling and Career Development Center and continues through this afternoon. 
The group of five women con­sisted of a working mother, a full­time mother and homemaker, a nun, a divorced mother of two, and a single career women. Each woman discussed circumstances and deci­si~ms which led to her personal situation, then answered questions from the audience and other mem­bers ofthe panel. 
Haig and AWACS case go to Cnngress 
WASHINGTON (ap) The Reagan administration, fighting to salvage an imperiled sale of AWACS radar planes to Saudi Arabia, told Congress yesteday a "fundamental understanding" insures that American airmen would be aboard the planes into the 1990s. 
But Sen. John Glenn, a crucial Senate opponent to the proposed sale, said Secretary of State Alexan­der M. Haig's assurances during a private meeting with the Foreign Relations Committee were not new and did not sway him. 
"My (conditions) have not been met yet," said Glenn. The Ohio Democrat added later that unless there are "some accomodations" in thl' proposal"it's doomed to deft:at." 
In public testimony following the closed·door session, llaig insisted that "there's been quite a lot of change." 
"It's very different from what you heard before now," he said. "There will he an American presence on the AWACS aircraft until 1990 and heyond." 

lie said many of the assurances he outlinnl would he in writing before the 19H'\ schnlulcd dclivery of the planes. "What we have now is a fun­damental understanding," Haigsaid. 
Despite continued resistance from many senators on the panel, llaig said President Reagan is through trying to l'hange the pa~:kage to plca~e them. 
"This issuc is so significant, the president is going to do what he thinks is right, win or lose," Haig said. 
Reagan, meanwhile, was declaring at a White House news conference that the sale is·vital to U.S. security interests. 
"I have proposed this sale because it signifcantly enhances our own vi­tal national security interests in the Middle East," the president said. "The sale will greatly improve our chance ofour working constructive­ly with Saudi Arabia and other states of the Middle East toward our corn­mon goal ofa just and lasting peace." 
And in an implied criticism of Is­rael's active opposition to the sale, Reagan dcclared: "While we must al­ways take into account the vital in­terests of our allies, American security interests must remain our intl'rnal rt~sponsihility.' It is not the business of other nations to make American foreign policy." 
llnders~:oring the argument that the sale is essential to protet:t W es­tern oil supplics, Haig said AWACS planes already on loan to Saudi Arabia detectt."d Iranian bombers before they struck oil installations in Kuwait. 
He called this "a dramatic and God-given warning" that Congress should not veto the SH. S billion arms package~ which also would provide the oil kingdom with more than 
1,000 advanced Sidt."winder air-to­air missiles, six aerial refueling tankers and other U.S. arms. 
Speakers on the panel were: Dr. Mary Elizabeth DePauw. the Direc­tor of the Counseling and Career Development Center of Student Af­fairs at Saint Mary's, and mother of a, nine-year old son; Mrs. Nancy Fol­desi. mother ofthree; Sister Mary Louise Gude, member of the Sisters of the Holy Cross and French Coor­dinator in the department of Modern Languages at Saint Mary's; and Doris Wilke Mikesell, resident of New York City, divorced in 1979, and mother oftwo children. 
Dr. Rice defined lifestyle as a dic­hotomy of decision-making and career development. Her singlehood, she explained, was not planned, but was rather a product of a series of decisions throughout her life. She commented, "life is a mys­tery to be lived, not a problem to be solved." Several times she also epxressed the religious commit­ment to her lifestyle, paraphrasing St. Paul in saying that "finding what you do well and doing it" should be the motivating factor in one's life. 
Sister Mary Louise discussed the clergical life as both a career and a lifestyle. "The bottom-line of religious life is not functional," she said. "Certainly functionality can be enhanced by religious life...but it (religious life) is actually a commit­ment to a personal God." Shc also said that her lifestyle was never planned, but a continuation of a tentative decision made in her early 20's. 
Single members of the panel expressed a definite feeling of freedom in their personal and career lives, and a satisfying self­knowledge. The three mothers ad­mitted a sense of guilt toward their children, feeling pulled in many directions; however they all em­phasized that their individual choices of lifestyle were the hest for them. 
All five women conveyed a great satisfanion with life and a sinccre in­terest in people and pnsonal relationships. 
The panel mentioned the ex-ist­cnce of "mentor~" as rolc-modcls. hut also agret."d that there exists no ideal "woman-type" or. for that mat­ter, ··man-type". 
"No one person can exemplif~· to­
tally what it is to he a human being," 
commented Sister Mary Louise. Af­
ter desnibing her lifcstyle ~:hoice as 
equivalent to "falling in love." she 
added, "I guess everybody can say 
that in their own fashion if they'rl" 
Christian." 



Amish Style Cooking at its Best Groups Welcome Souvenir Gift Shop 
Homemade pies , breads Excellent selection of meats 
open Mon.-Sat. until 9 pm Daily brunch--70 items $4.59--8 am-2 pm 

Searching among the garbage ofSt Mary•'s, these SMC's hope to find a lost ring. (photo by Cheryl Ertelt) 
-~---­
. RIVER CITY -RECORDS 
Northern Indiana's Largest Selection of Albums & Tapes. Why pay more any place else? 
-11111!'---~--. 
t1' l OO OFF'any regul~r ~ecord or tape with ad. 
-.]J • L1m1t 1 per person 
._________• ___E_x.,;p.._ires Oct~j,l981 
50970 US 31 North eOpen till 10 every night 
3 miles NC?rth of Campus e ND/SMC checks cashed next to AI s Supermarket up to $20 over purchase amount 277-4242 eRecord Crates available 
...............___........___ 
-


SUXDAY MASSIS A'l SAOB.ID BIAB.'l CBUB.OB Masses are for Sunday, October 4, 1981 
5:1S PM Saturday Rev. Oliver William, c.s.c. 
9:00 AM Sunday Rev. T_homas King, C.S.C. 
10:80 AM Sunday B.ev. David E. Schlaver, C.S.C. 
12:18 PM Sunday Rev. John Fitzgerald, C.S.C. 
7:15 PM Vespers Rev. David E. Schlaver, C.S.C. · 

~~-----~~~-~~~~~~~----------------, 
Friday, October 2, 1981 -page 4
The Observer 

continuedfrom page 1 

programs in elementary and secon­dary education. Student-teaching is done in public and private schools in the City of South Bend school dis­trict. However, throughout the four years of education within the department, students are involved 
in "mini-field experiences," accord­ing to Sr. Maria Concepta, head of the Education department. 
The Government department of­fers internships not only in local government offices, but in Washing­ton D.C. as well. Students in the Washington program spend a semes­ter working in federal and congres­sional offices. This internship­program is open to junior and senior government majors. 
Within the History department, there is an internship open to all juniors and seniors at the Northern Indiana Historical Society Museum. Participants in this program learn 
ing? (photo by Cheryl Ertelt) 
Coping With Graduate School­
-------------·-­
a Couples Survival Workshop 
Open to No~re Dame graduate student couples 
Saturday, Oct. 10 University Commons, Social Center Bulla Ave. 9:00 to 5:00 Call Psychological Services (283-7336) bv Oct. 5 
Marsha Mason 

~~T~M~~hol 
Slutw6 2:00-4:30-7:00-9:30 ~ 
South Bend's newest & finest m cwsme. 

Dine among the antiques, 
and enjoy our view -•~--' of the new downtown! 
the basics about running a museum; from financial matters to display set­
• Reagan 
continuedfrom page 1 Reagan said, adding that an arms 
buildup is essential to national that guarantee that it will not com­security. promise our security.... I have to say 
Reagan also said "it's difficult for that Saudi Arabia, we will not permit 
me to imagine there is a winnable to be an Iran." nuclear war" but that Kremlin 
Although he refusect' to spell out leaders believe it's possible and that what the United States would do, is why he will pursue "arms reduc­Reagan said, "There is no way we tion talks" instead of "arms limita­
could stand by" and see Saudi Arabia tion talks." taken over by anyone who would On another point, Reagan said his shut off its oil exports. 
wife Nancy has "taken a bit ofa bum The president, who has proposed 
rap" for spending 11209,000 for new a $2 billion cut in the spending in­
White House china. Reagan said the crease proposed for the Pentagon, 
White House had not purchased a did not rule out that he would ac­
new set of china since the Truman cept a larger reduction if Congress 
administration, and that because of insists. "I would hesitate to say that I 
breakage, "we can't set the tables would or that they shoulcl_ do this," _ 
with dishes that m;ttd1." 

ST. FRANCIS OF ASSISI~ EIGHTH CENTENARY 1982 riWlCISCMlS On campus JOY~Ully lnVIt€ YOU 
tO JOin rn th€ WORlO C€l€BRat10n 0~ th€ 
SOOth anmvrnsaRy 
0~ th€ BIRth 0~ 

~RanCJs o~ ass1s1 "BROth€R 0~ th€ UnJV€RS€" SunOay, 0CtOB€R 4, 1981 
10:30 am l1tu1:1qy &. 7:15 pm V€SP€RS sacR€0 h€atU ChuRch u o~ notR€ bam€ C€l€BRant: bav10 Schlav€R, c.s.c. 
biR€CtoR o~ campus mrn 
MASS followed b:}r 
supper· 


every
FRIDAY at the 
• • • Focus 
ups. 

The Nursing department sends 
juniors and seniors to hospitals t(>r 
clinical experience. Students 
receive lab credits while they learn 
about the workings of a hospitaL In­
structors are there to oversee the lab 
work. 

Psychology offers two types of in­ternships, referred to as "practicums." These programs are intended for those students who in­tend to be either psychology majors or minors. The practicums are designed to prepare students for professional settings and to explore career areas to see if their chosen major is suitable for them. "They not only contribute to the learning process of the student, but it also al­lows the student to contribute to the community at the same time," according to Psychology Depart­
ment chairman joseph Miller. 

Yet another internship program 
offered by Saint Mary's is in the So­
cial Work department. This program 
is available during the summer as 
well as the school year. During the 
summer, students can work for their 
local social service office. Similar in­
ternships are available in the Mic­
hiana area during the school year. In 
these programs, students learn to 
carry a case load as well as con­
tribute to the community. 

In all of these internship programs, students can apply class­room learning to practical ex­periences. Students are able to make contacts and have the opportunity to see ifthe career they have chosen is appropriate for them. Interns combine theoretical and practical experiences, which can give them an advantage in the job market. 
• • • Burns 
continuedfrom page 1 

However, if a family has more than one child, penalities are placed on that family in an effort to keep the population down. 
In addition, the population com­
pounds any other problem faced by 
the Chinese people. If the govern­
ment makes an effort to solve a 
problem, ~uch as making an increase 
in the level of higher education, 
there are so many people that are ef­
fected by the problem that the 
government faces a problem larger 
than it can handle. 

Burns added that the level of economy in China is very primitive compared to that of the United States. Generally, the people do not have electricity. However, Burns also said that the Chinese are rapidly learning of the inventions of the outside world and are pressuring the government for more freedom in the products and information they are exposed to. 
"The Chinese are learning for the 
first time that there is a world out 
there, that it is a stronger and better 
and easier world than they are used 
to." 

Burns admitted that the Chinese 
have received a temporary gain of 
freedom, but felt that they were still 
very limited. Despite this gain, Burns 
has a pessimistic view of China's 
future. 

"The problem is, these people are 
pressing for things that the govern· 
ment can not provide. I think, 
therefore, that the gains are tem­
porary ones and they will soon be 
forced back to a dictatorship as strict 
as before," Burns concluded.


Buy 

OBSERVER 

Clais~fieds 
The Observer Friday, October 2, 1981 -page 5 



All Savers certificates debut 

"'F\V YORK ( AP) -It was a 
wdcomc t·hangt· for the nation's 
b;mkt'f' -peoplc lined up to hring 
mont·v in. not to take it awav. as tax­
frn: c\ll !'-avt·rs I :t·rtitkates wcnt on 
~alt· IT.,tt-rdav. 
:\ o;pol chet:k nationwide indi­
catnl rnanv hanks anti thrift institu­
tion~ wert· doinjl. a brisk business. 
particularlv in thc South. 
···\II our lobbies are full of 
pt·oplt-." said Clt-ve Brown. senior 
'in· prt·<;itknt of Unit1rst Savinjl.s and 
Loan tbsot:iation in Jat·k..,on..\1iss. 
"And I cxpt·ct thcrn to bc (full) 
today and tomorrow." 
1\uvt-rs <>f All !'-avcrs wcrl· at­tractt·d I>Y a comhmation of high in­tne.,t and frec:dom from ft·lkral 
taxt·~. 
llnwt·ver. somc: investors !lp­p;~n·nrly wt-re w<~iting to sc:e if tht'ir interest vidd would increase: if they waitt:<.l until .\1onday. A trcasury Department auction of onc:-year bills was scheduled for late: last 
night. The: interest for All SavL'rs ccr­
titkatcs sold beginning Monday will 
be equal to 70 percent of the: invest­
mt·nt yield at yesterday's auction. 
Certificates sold bdore Monday 

will carry a 12.61 percent interest 
rate. .\1inimum deposits are SSOO. 
Hanks and thrift institutions 

planned to stay open late Fridar. and 
in somt· cases s<:hnluled weckc:nd 
hour~ to givc: investors the oppor­
tunityto invest bd(Jrc rates changc:. 
In Albany. N.Y.. bankns advised customer-; to wait. 
"\X't• feel we havc that moral obligation," said Jamcs W. C:olem, st·nior viu: president of l'nion Na­tional Hank. 
Thc: first cntifkates wc:rc sold shortly after midnight Thursday morning at Bar Harhor Savings & loan Association, a Bar Harbor, ,\Iaine, institution that calls itself the nation's smallest S&L. 
The All Savers certificate was 
t:reated by Congress bct:ause hanks 
complained they couldn't compcte 
with the high rates being offered by 
money market funds. Those funds 
have bt:en booming ti>r thc past 
sevcral years, at the expensc: of 
banks. 
If All Savers livc up to expecta­
tions of attracting at kast S200 bil­
lion, thcir tax-free feature will cost 
the Trc:asury upwards of 5'; billion. 
Based on an intial yidd of 12.61 pc:rcent. a maximum S1,000 tax ex­emption is availahk to a single pc:r­son invcsting a maximum 57,930.21 and a 5.2.000 exemption for a couple putting in SI ";,H60.42. 
Givc:n the combinc:d interest yield and the tax savings, a umpk with a 52';,000-s.30.000 gross int:ome can c:xpect a nc:t yield of about I 7 pcr­cent. the current average yeld of taxable money market mutual funds. 

TheObserver Friday, October 2, 1981 -page 6 
PINOCCHIO'S PIZZA PARLOR 
-Hours Fast Delivery Service 
Mon-Thurs 11 am-12 pm 
277-4522
Fri-Sat 11 am-1 :30 am Sun 4 pm-11 pm 
-Beer Specials 
Every Nite 8:00-10:00 $1.75 Pitcher $.50 Mug 
-HAPPY HOUR 
Mon-Fri 4 pm-6 pm Fri-Sat 8 pm-12 am 4 tt wide screen TV 

PLEASE-one coupon per pizza 


h~-~~p;;g;;dfihi;~;~~g~~'dl ~01.., tor one I for one 1 ~.P .,-P i 
jumper 
LARGE PIZZA I MEDIUM PIZZA I '~ ~ ........._-g $1.00 OFF I $.75 OFF I 
expires 10-30-81l____________expires 1 0-30-81 I________.....




--------,.. w 
r---~----~-------------1 ~ Spear the Spartans~ \ Pep Rally~ 
~ today at 7:00 i 1 In the Stepan Center ~ ~ IE I c >~ 
L~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~J 
1Kni!l4ts nf Qtnlumblt6
presents 
ng Marlon Brando, Gene Hackman, 
and Christopher Reeve Fri., Oct. 2 and Sat. Oct. 3 Engineering Auditorium 
7 and 9:30pm, 12:00am 
Admission $1.00-members free 
E 
s
N emJt1<Jn• 

Cancer breakthrough 

Treatment doubles survival rate1 
WASHINGTON (AP)-A quick­spreading cancer that frequently leads to limb amputation can be treated with a new approach that doubles the survival rate while sparing many arms and legs, govern­ment scientists said Thursday. 
Researchers at the National Can­cer Institute said the greatly improved results against soft tissue sarcoma are due to aggressive therapy combining surgery to remove the tumor with radiation and chemotherapy. 
Dr. Steven A. Rosenberg, chief of the institute's surgery branch, said two studies with a total of 107 patients show that the combined therapy "can produce substantial improvement in patient outcome." 
In the studies, the disease-free, three-year survival rates rose to 91 percent compared with about 40 percent for patients getting conven­tional therapy, usually surgery alone. 
The three-year results are par­ticularly encouraging, he said, be­cause, historically, 80 percent of those who suffered a reoccurrence did so within the first two years. 
Rosenberg told a meeting of in­stitute scientific advisers that the chemotherapy, using high doses of three anti-cancer drugs, was the key to the dramatic results. 
This type ofcancer, which affects muscle, fat, nerve and connective tissue around bones, spreads from the original sitf' tn tl-w lungs. and most deaths are associated with later lung cancer. he said. 
"A major finding of the studies is that aggressive use ofchemotherapy immediately after surgery can lead to marked improvement in freedom from disea.se recurrence, and possib­ly cure these patients," Rosenberg said. 
"The chemotherapy was given 
even though there was no clinical 
evidence of disease spread at that 
time," he added. 
Rosenberg said limb sparing was possible with about 75 percent of. patients without additional risk of disease recurrence. This means sub­stantially improved quality of life as well as longer survival with the new approach, he said. 
The surgeon noted at a later brief­ing that amputation still is necessary in some cases, particularly when the cancer spreads to the bone. But the studies show that using aggressive chemotherapy after amputation also greatly improves survival, he added. 
About 5,000 new cases of soft tissue sarcoma occur each year in the U.S., and about 3,000 ofthem are in the limbs. These highly malignant tumors mostly affect relatively young people. 
Total or partial amputation is the usual treatment, but doctors sometimes try less severe surgery with mixed results, Rosenberg said. 
Up to 90 percent of the time, Rosenberg said, the cancer is diagnosed before it spreads. All 

3
e • • • 
need a study break?
• 

relax at the NAZZ tonight : try out your hidden talents! open stage 9 : 00•11 :00 
tomorrow: A Nazz Favorite the Mark Davis Show with a special guest Dan Brahier 9 : 00-? 
'I 
. i 

patients in the cancn institute studies were in this category. 
With the new treatment, patients have the tumor removed and under­go radiation therapy at the site for five lO seven weeks. At the same time, they go through a 14-month 
schedule of drug  therapy  with  
Adriamyin,  Cytoxan  and  met­ 
hotrexate.  


Stockman advocates new cuts 
WASHINGTON (AP) -As un­precedented cuts in federal spend­ing were taking effect yesterday, White House budget director David 
A. Stockman told Congress that only half the job has been done in the drive to reach a baianced budget in 1984. 
"The potential size and serious­ness ofthe emerging budget gaps re­quires rapid and urgent action," Stockman told the House Budget Committee. 
"The current budget outlook -in the absence offurther policy actions -is for budget deficits ofabout S60 billion in each ofthe years 1982-84." Stockman said. 
The budget director used the ap­

pearance to pitch for the new spend­
ing reductions President Reagan 
outlined last week to rein in the 
deficit for the 1982 fiscal year, 
which began yesterday. 
But Democrats on the panel were 

skeptical about the need for a 
second round of spending reduc­
tions :>o soon. 
"Those of us who do not disagree with your goals, but have disagreed with some of the specifics of your policy are troubled by the fact that before this last round of cuts even goes into effect, we are already faced with another set." said Rep. lames R. jones, D-Okla.. the committee chair­
man. 
Stockman reiterated the presi­dent's argument that Congress has not delivered all the cuts the ad­minstration asked for earlier this year and that the cost of programs that pay benefits directly to in­dividuals -entitlements -are growing faster than expected. 
He noted that much had been ac­
complished with the multibillion­
dollar package of budget cuts I 
Congress enacted earlier this year. ' 
"But over half the job remains to be done," Stockman said. "We're simply going to have to go back to the well to get mon· 
changes," he added. 
However, the budget direcror ot: fered few details on the president's call for 12 percent across-tht·-board reductions in non-defense and non­entitlement programs, a S.~ billion increase in tax revenues. furtht:r reductions in entitlement programs and ceilings on federal loan guaran­
tee programs. 
The administration plans to ~uh­mit its proposed entitlement and tax changes by Oct. 20. Stockman said 

-Meanwhile, he indicated that work on the recommended I2 percent across-the-board reductions i~ com­pleted. 
rtoW€RS anb (jlrts 
roR all OCC3SSIOns 
Com€ 10 anb BROWS€. 
~ 



Wy~~Co.
327 bncotnway 

~------------.---------------------------------------------------------------~----­
The Observer Friday, October 2, 1981 -page 7 
Investigation reveals Indy takeover plot 
l:>·n>IA:'>IAPOLIS ( AP) -Three men convicted of tht· munkr of an armort·d car guard had plottnl to kill police officers, assassinate the local prosecutor and "takl· over the city of Indianapolis," a published report said yt'sten.lay. 
Tlw Indianapolis News reported that the thn:e. Tommie: Smith, and brothers Earl and <in·gory Resnovn. hatchd the plot whik serving time at the Indiana Rdi)rmatory in 197R 
Thl· three wne convicted hy \1arion -County Criminal Court jury last Tul·sday on munkr and rohbery charges for the Aug. -f. 19HO, slaying ofa Brink's guard during a robbery at a northside discount store. 
Smith and <iregory Resnover were convictt·d earlier of murdning an Indianapolis police homicide detective Dec. I I, 1980. They were sentenced to death. Earl Resnover is 
a'\V~iti'l~ tri'tl in t'h, . .:l,notino death 
of Detective Sgt. Jack Ohrberg. 
The Neu•s said the three enlisted as many as 70 other criminals to help them in thdr plot to terrorize the na­tion's 12th-largest city, but that the number dwindled in subsequent months. 

Indianapolis police said Smith, the Resnovers and a third Resnover brothr. Aaron, now dead, were the only real conspirators in the plot, which involved bank robberies, ex­tortion and assasination of police and city oft1cials. 
l'oliet: also said tht·y considered the case closed with the apprehen­sion and conviction ofthe three. 

Marin County Prosecutor Stephen Goldsmith, reportedly one of the gang's assassination targets, said an investigation was conducte!l, but it ended with the arrests and convic­tions ofSmith and the Resnovers. 

Dressed in their most German clothes, the band the beer tent. (photo by Cheryl Ertelt) at Oktoberfest entertained the many visitors to 
Poll shows s~pport for cuts 
NEW YORK (AP) -Despite growing pessimism toward the economy, the latest Associated Press-NBC news poll says Americans support President Reagan's proposal for $1 3 hillion in additional hudget cuts. 
The poll, a scientific random sam­pling of I ,60 I adults contacted that had heard or read of the president's latt:st proposed budget cuts approve ofthem. 
Yet a majority also bt:lit:ves that their family finances will not im­prove in the nt:xt year and that the ft·deral budget will not be halanced hy 1984. 

Rt·agan's overall job performance rating dipped to 'i3 percent good or excellent, down I 0 percent from the AP-NBC News poll in August and tht: lowest during his presidency. 
The latest poll said 27 percent believe Reagan is doing an only fair job overall, while 16 percent said poor and 4 percent wert: not sure. 
Reagan's job rating for handling tht· economy dipped to 45 percent approval, down from 'i2 percent in August and matching July's lowest total during Reagan's eight months in otlkt:. 
The poll said 29 percent believe Rt·agan is doing only a fair job in han­dling the economy, while 21 per­cent said poor and <; percent were not sure. 
Twenty percent said they expect 
Weighborhood 
Roots' plans 
•


excurston 

South Bend is an interesting and unique community. "Neighborhood Roots" provides the opportunity to hear ahout the ethnic background of many South Bend neighborhoods, as well as to enjoy a Hungarian meal in South Bend's lively Hungarian com­munity. 
Tht: experience is designed to bring students closer to the people and the life ofthe city they call home for four years. 
The group will leave the Library Circle at 4 p.m. Thursday, October 8, and return at 8 p.m. The cost is 
S3.00, and there is room for I 50 stu­dents. 
Tickets will be on sale Friday, Oct. 2, Monday, Oct. 5, and Tuesday, Oct. 6, at the North and South dining halls. 
their families to be financially better off in the next year, compared with 29 percent when Reagan took office. 
Last week, the president called for $13 billion in spending cuts on top of the S35 billion already trimmed from the fiscal 1982 federal budget. 
Among those who had heard or read of Reagan's latest proposal, 54 percent said they approve, with 35 percent disapproving and 1 1 per­cent not sure. 
At the same time, 53 percent of those respondents predicted Congress will not approve Reagan's requested cuts, while 32 percent said the revisions will be approved, 5 percent said some will be ap­proved and 10 percent were not sure. 
And 72 percent of those polled said they dv not think the federal 
which was the primary reason tht president gave for the additional cuts. 
The poll also said Americans' per­ception of the nation's economic woes have shifted somewhat during the last six weeks. The August poll said the puhlic rated inflation, un­employment and interest rates -in that order -as the most important economic problem for the govern­ment to help control over the next three years. 
But the most recent poll said fewer people had picked inflation and unemployment and more had picked interest rates. Forty-two per­cent said inflation was the most im­portant economic problem for the government to help control over the next three years, while 27 percent said unemployment, 27 percent in­terest rates and 4 percent were not 

budget will be balanced by 1984 -::-_. sure. 
......................


: ~~~~ .
. .
~.~

• I t ~ .•• 
•• ~~ •
8 Big Brothers Big Sisters Is looking forward e 
: .to another year of excltfng activities! : · : If you are one and have not received-the 8 e newsletter, please contact: : 
: Andrew Kottkamp 8448 (after 6) or 8 e South Bend Agency 232-9958 : 
7 pm Stepan Center Sun., Oct. 4 

(i()fll~£()flllll~ ~()£~()~~ [()tt~ry 


$55 package includes: 2 Fla. State football tickets 
2 Beach Boys tickets
• 
2 Homecoming ..suitcase party" tickets­.Bring id's and money GREAT DEAL!! 
• 
winner at suitcase party wins free week­long trip for 2 to Florida over fall breakT 


The Notre Dame Student Union &the ACC present 
~~)ea~m rnr:m~corn rnCIDTI"~ 

IN CONCERT Oct. 9 8 pm in the ACC 
still available $9.50 ~ 

o ploy by morsho normon 





GETTNG OUT 


Features 
Friday, October 2, 1981 -page 8 
This crazy season 
You can tell it's the crazy season muscle tensing in his lower jaw. "I on marriages when you hear with­love her," he says in a husky voice. .Fr. Robert Griffin out surprise that last month's wed­She, looking deep into his eyes as ding veil has been torn up and used though she were glimpsing his soul as dust rags, and that the top layer and baring hers, says: "I love him." Letters to a Lonely God of the Dainty-Maid cake, stored in With eternity briefly glimpsed, the freezer for the fiftieth anniver­they kiss; and you would swear to sary, has been defrosted as a treat God you were standing on holy to wallk in another fellow's for the family cat. I'm getting shell­ground. footsteps. He didn't want to think shocked over the news that yester­"The Macho Kid meets the Eter­great thoughts that other men had 
Andy Rooney's life runneth over 
Today is a turning point in my life.  Andy Rooney  
From this day forward, I am not  
adding one single thing to my col­ 
lection of possessions. If I bring  
something new in the front door,  
I'm going to throw something old  their closets at home as they'd-be  
out the back door.  about a locker in a bus station. I  
The siinple fact of the matter is,  love them but when they come  

day's bride has become today's grass widow. (Grass widows is what they call them, <;lear. I didn't invent the insensitive words). Whatever happened, I wonder, to the love in August that committed itselfwith vows promising forever? Whatever happened to a faith that could pledge itself to be true in good times and in bad, that fell apart like a paper shoe at the early disappointments, before the worst and best of a married lifetime could ever be faced? 
One is only partially cheered by the realization that the marriage has been annulled. No priest would wish to see a couple con­tinue in a distressed union, as though they were tied by the tail like the quarrelsome Kilkenny cats. But if annulment represents a judicial decision that the marriage, from its first ecstatic moments, never existed, the cleric who presided over the flawed nuptial consent must certainly think: "Boy, was I ever out to lunch, be­cause I could have sworn that I blessed a marriage that was regis­tered with God." 
I, as a priest, am becoming cyni­cal about marriage, just as some of my friends were cynical about seeing me ordained. "He'll never stick with it," some friends argued. "He'll turn out to be one of those monks who run away from monas­teries." No one of us can ever be sure of the perseverance of anoth­er, not because we expect the worst in people, but because we are not sure ofa person's strength in sifting through the experiences ofpain. 

Acouple comes in wanting to ar­range for their marriage. "Do you love each other?" I ask. The intend­ing husband, almost as a reflex ac­tion, reaches for the hand of his intended bride. You can see the nal Woman," I think cynically. "They look as though they were following paradigms of passion from the great Silver Screen. They're trying too hard to be sin­cere." 
"Charmant," I am tempted to say. "Your friendship has gotten off nicely on the right foot. Come back and talk to me in about five years." They ask about marriage: a time, a date, a church. "Oh dear, no," I feel I should answer them. "What will 

'Because a couple sound sincere when I ask them about love, there's no reason I should let them hurt themselves by making a marriage. 
you do when the passion subsides? How will you handle the bitter­ness?" 

I'm just a poor cleric ofthe Lord. The only marriage I've known well was my parents' marriage, when their caring, in middle age, was no longer a sexual message you could read in their faces; still, they moved with the grace of lovers before my eyes. How can I trust new love not to perjure itself in vows presumptuous with hope for the future? How can I doubt that emotion so evident has a lifetime guarantee. 
Recently, a middle-aged man came to tell me that his marriage had failed. "All I ever really wanted," he said, "was to be an Original Person." He never wanted discovered first. He wanted to be his own teacher, prophet, and priest, and an original witness to truth as he had experienced it. "As snowflakes differ in their designs," he said, "so do people differ. I want to be free to be me, listening to no man's drumbeat but my own." 

"The problem with being dif­ferent from everyone else," I said, "is that 'They' won't let you." 
"Who is 'They'?" he said. "Bosses? The Establishment? God? My wife?" 
"You'll know 'Them' when you meet 'Them'," I said. "After twenty years of marriage, what did your wife say when you decided to leave?" 
"She knew the time had come," he said, "when I had to be True To Myself What is wrong with trying to be your authentic self? Why must all of us be copycats of the other?" 
"I have no objections," I said, "but you may find it's very lonely living on that limb you've crawled to the tip of." 
"All of the great Romantics have been solitaries," he said. "The only true courage is to risk life and death in the lonely places where Truth exists by Itself All the real heroes bear the marks of being wound in the solitary combat." 
In the crazy season, people wake up at fifty to discover they've become Henry David Thoreau. Maybe we should arrange with the Pope to make divorce a sacrament for people needing to be True to Themselves. If I sound cynical, it's because I'm often disappointed in myself I am enough of a Romantic to believe in the authenticity of Romance. Because a couple sound sincere when I ask them about love, there's no reason I should let them hurt themselves my making a 
marriage. 

everything's full. My desk drawers are full and the top of my desk is heaped high with paper. 
My two-car garage long ago passed the point where I could get one car, let alone two, into it. Now I can't even open the garage door from the driveway side and walk through it to the door leading to the kitchen. I have to go around. 
When the oil-burner man came to give the furnace its annual physi­cal, he said I couldn't have all that suff piled so close to it. That's easy for an oil-burner man to say, but where would he put it? Where would he put the outdoor chair with the broken leg that's too good to throw away and that I'll probab­ly get at fixing someday? There's no space left anywhere in the cel­lar except too close to the furnace. 
The attic isn't any better. The at­tic is only high enough in the middle, under the peak of the roof, for me to stand up straight in, but I've hoisted boxes of old letters, books and suitcases filled with papers into it and shoved them over to the side where I have to get down on my hands and knees to shove them under the eaves. 
My clothes closet in the hall 

outside our bedroom is at capacity. 
It looks like a New York City sub­
way at ruch hour. Clothes hang 
from hangers so tightly packed to­
gether that I can't get one out with­
out removing several 
simultaneously. 
The four kids have all left home but they didn't leave with much of their stuff. There is evidence ofthe 18 or 20 years they spent in the house in the closets everywhere. Parents entertain some foolish no­tion that they're loved and wanted just because children leave clothes behind when they strike out on their own. The kids, for their part, are about as sentimental about 
home for Thanksgiving and Christmas, I'm going to sneak out to their cars at night while they're sleeping and fill the trunks with old sneaks, small clothes and school papers of theirs that they've been storing ilt home. I'm going to stuff the cute, misshapen clay ashtrays they made in Miss Evans' pottery class into the crevices behind the front seats oftheir cars. 
In the kitchen, the drawers are piled so high with knives, forks and kitchen gadgets for cutting carrots into interesting shapes that some­thing ofte-n sticks up too high and prevents a drawer from opening. 
My life runneth over and I'm going to do something about it. Beginning today, I solemly swear on a stack of old Garry Moore scripts, I will not bring one single item into the house or office with­out casting out some equivalent space-taker. lfl buy a new tool, I'm going to throw out an old one. If I 
buy a new shirt, I'm going to throw 
out an old shirt. 

I am no longer going to save the brown bags the groceries come in. I have a lifetime supply of old brown bags. I am going to cast out coffee cans, elastic bands, book matches, broken toasters, old snow tires and perhaps, just per­haps, all the pennies on top of my dresser. Furthermore, tonight when I go home, I'm going to make it clear to my wife that we aren't going to make one more trip to the 
stove until we've eaten everything in the freezer, including one cooked lambchop I happen to know has been in there since the early '70s. 
I'm clearing out my life, begin­
ning today ... tomorrow at the very 
latest. 

(c) Chicago Tribune-New York 
News Syndicate, Inc. 

Rock trivia 4 
''Continental Divide ' ' 
Here are the answers for the last trivia quiz, which dealt with artists who came from countries other than the United States or Great Britain. The singer or group is followed by country oforigin. 
1. 
The Singing Nun -Belgium 

2. 
Patrick Hernandez -France 


3. Hugh Masekela -South Africa 
4.Jackson Browne-West Ger­many 
5. 
Stars On 45 -Holland 

6. 
Abba -Sweden 7.John Kay-East Germany 


8. 
Freddy Mercury -Zanzibar 

9. 
Gordon Lightfoot -Canada 


10. Bob Marley and the Waiters -Jamaica 
This week I will describe some fairly well-known hits of the past five years. Identify the songand the artist who made it famous. 
1. 
The storyoftwo former lovers and how they reunite for one night after running into each other in a supermarket. 

2. 
She lost her youth and she lost her Tony, now she's lost her mind. 

3. 
A song inspired by the word used by one of the band members for a certain male organ. 

4. 
A live recording which ends with the artist asking the crowd, 



"Are you having a good time?'' 
5. 
One of the biggest hits in the history of popular music, the singer insisted that she was treat­ing it as a love song to Jesus when she sang it. 

6. 
After John Lennon heard this song in a disco, he said, "They're doing Yoko Ono!"; it more or less convinced him that it was time for a comeback. 

7. 
The singer laments because his best friend has found a woman with whom the singer is also very much in love, and he wonders why he can't be so lucky. 

8. 
This record begins with a piece of the original version ofthe song, then goes into a slowed­down version ofthe same song. 

9. 
A remake of a number one song from 1960, with new lyrics. 

10. 
A song which had its lyrics changed for AM airplay in two dif­ferent places because of not-too­kosher sexual references: the cleaned-up versions were "wishing she was giving you a chance" and '"til she's put you in your place." 



Tim Neely 

"Continental Divide" stars John Belushi, and yet it is not another "Blues Brothers". "Continental Divide" is produced by Steven Spielberg and yet it is not another "Star Wars". "Continental Divide" is written by Lawrence Kasdan, and yet it is not another "Body Heat". So, one might ask, "What is 'Continental Divide'?" 
This reviewer is puzzled. 

Puzzled, because the strenghth usually exuded by the above artists is not found in "Continental Divide". What is lacking is a sense of definition, of coherence. Whether the film stops short ofits possibilities or is drawn beyond its limitations or both, "Continental Divide" seems confused about what it actually wants to become. 
As the title of the film suggest, "Continental Divide" is a tale about division -emotional and in­tellectual as well as geographical division. A muckraking Chicago columnist is sent to the Rockies to cover a solitary ornithologist and they fall in love. But, his life is in the hustle of a Chicago street and her life is in the silent dip of an eagle's wing and the film wonders whether love can survive such a separation.
1 
"Continental Divide" is a sen­
timental comedy and therefore not 
a typical Belushi laughfest. I am 
pleased to see Belushi concerned 
about his growth as an actor to the 
extent that he would accept a role 
beyond slapstick, but just as his 
character Ernie Souchak is out of 
his element on a Colorado moun­

tain peak, so does Belushi seem very uncomfortable in portraying a character who loves. 
Blair Brown, on the other hand, plays the ornithologist, Nell Porter with a subtle affection that im­mediately endears both Souchak and the audience to her. What is admirable is that she showed com­plete control in the film, control which is needed next to Belushi's recalcitrant hesitancy. 
The basic problem with the film is the script. While Lawrence Kas­dan works will within the limited dimensions of "Body Heat", his writing seems to become diffuse with the film's expansion to in­clude the Rockies. What the script really lacks is some sort of coherent structure that links the Chicago scenes with the mountain scenes. While the theme may state that love is the link, th .e structure 

needs something stronger. 

Doug Kreitzberg 
Movies 
Despite the script ana Helushi, the actual filming of the movie is well done. Director Michael Apted edited, used differing film stocks, and played with lighting with an admirable flair and accessible creative style. David Oyster, responsible for the eagle photog­raphy, did a fine piece of work. What was pleasing about the film was that it captured, scenically, the heart of both Chicago and the Rockies. 
But, doe t s one go to University( 
Park to see a travelogue? I don't. 
And while "Continental Divide" 
shows no pretentions at being a 
classic, it does, and the audience 
expects it to, show pretentions at 
being an entertaining film. In my 
opinion, the film sags under the 
weight of a flawed script, and 
therefore is just not entertaining. 
And as for John Belushi, I admire 
his courage at trying something 
different, but he needs a good 
script to support him. 

--------------------------~~~~~­







e Irish Extra 
an Observer sports suppl~ment 
Friday, October 2, 1981 -page 9 

Team morale high despite two losses 
By KELLY SULLIVAN team's attitude is very positive. We just want Sports Writer to go out and stop all the talk, just get a win un­der our belt." 
Notre Dame foothall is a virtual stranger to Any loss is tough, but last Saturday's 15-14 failure. And Gerry Faust is certainly not a<.·­heartbreaker was especially devastating be­customed to losing. So the capacity crowd on cause Faust feels the team made big strides hand for Saturday's I :30 kick-off against Michi­from the Mi<.·higan contest. gan State will he anxious ro see how the 1-2 "The Purdue game was a tough, tough loss," Irish pkk up the pic(.'(:S and rebuild. he confesses. "But one good thing we did was 
"I've told our players thev have two regain the iniensity we didn't have against choices," says their coach (;erry Faust. "They Michigan." can dtht·r givt· up after tho~~: two losses and And that intensity is a must to beat a team setrlt' for an ~veragl' st·ason. or they can gl·t up like the Spartans, Notre Dame's third straight off the ground and kn:p lighting. They can he Big Ten foe. "They're quick, they're physical the comeback tt·am of the year." ;Jild they're well-coached. They always play 
llow the Irish respond to events of the past well against the best teams, and they always two wc~:ks will tdl Faust a lot about the get up f(>r Notre Dame." charat·ter of his team. as both he and the A key to stopping the Spartans tomorrow players have come under some sharp will be containing quarterback_john Leister. niticism this week in papt·rs across tht· The junior thrt.·w for 204 yards against the country, including The OfJsen•er, after drop­Irish a year ago in his college debut. I.ciste t r ping two games in a row. boa.~ts 'i'H yards in the air this season with 
"You have to expect that after you lose," flanker Otis Grant and split ends Daryl Turner says junior co-captain Phil Carter. "But the and Ted Jones his targets. "He's a lot likc Purdue's Scott Camphdl." 

says Faust. "lie can make the big play hy either throwing on the run or running himself" 
While the defense must do their part by preventing the big play, Faust says his offense has to start putting more points on the hoard. He promist.·s the Irish will start to show more flare, ont'C they've established a Solid running game. 
"We ran ,different things at LSU because we kit we could surprise them," he explains. "But against Michigan, there were certain things we felt we had to do. And at Purdue, there were certain things their defense did that limited us." 
"We'll open things up, but you've got to have the basics down before you do the tricky stuff." 
Faust will put the running game back in the hands of tailback Carter. He turned in a spec-
See EAGER, page 11 

Oliver and Anderson are playing for kicks 
By SKIP DESJARDIN School on an exchange program, has hit I02 Assistant Sports Editor ofthe I05 extra points he has attempted. Still, he is far from satisfied. 
Slowly but surely, Harry Oliver is closing in "I must become more consistent on field on most of Notre Dame's kicking records. His goals," he says. "That's 85 percent of my name has been mentioned prominently on game." various all-American lists. Actually, if he were to check his figures, it's 
Less slowly, but no less surely, Morton An­more like half. As a matter of fact, it's exactly derson is becoming the most feared kicker in half. Anderson has kicked 34 field goals, for college football. He is on the verge ofowning I02 points. That, along with his I02 points af­
all the .\fichigan State kicking marks. and a ter touchdowns, gives him a career scoring 
team of NFL scouts. assembled hy The Sf}(Jrf· mark of 204 points, just 26 points shy of th<· ing Neu>s. called him the nation's top place .\1SlJ record held by fellow Dam· llans Niel­kicker. sen. 
This week, the two will match up in :\lotre Evcrv Notre Dame fan has heard, by now Dame Stadium. as the Irish take on the Spar­the legend ofHarry t >livt·r. and the way his 51­tans. yard kick into the win boosted Notrt· Damt· to 
Oliver and Anderson have gone head-to­a miracle win over Michigan last season. 
head before, with the 5-l 1 Irish kicker coming Fewer know about the success enjoyed hy An­out on top. His 4-4 performance last season in derson in his only appearant'l' to date in Notre East l.an~ing was one of the only bright spot~ Dame Stadium. 
in a lackluster Notre Dame victory. Andt·r­With no time on the clock at the end of the son's only attempt of the game, a 29-yarder, first half, the Spartan placekicker hooted a ';_.\­was good, but he really didn't g<·t a chance to 
See KICKS, page II
show offhis talents. Nom·thekss, Irish coaches are well-aware of his ahility. 
"'That guy is a real threat," admits head coach Gerry Faust. "'He adds another dimen­sion to their offense." 
Spartan coach Frank "Muddy" Waters is well-aware ofthe abilities ofthe Struer, Den­mark native. You can't argue with the facts, and history has proven that Anderson pos­sesses deadly accuracy. 
"Morten is a threat to score for us every time we pass midfield," Waters says. "He has been simply sensational in all aspects of the game." 
Sensational may not be strong enough a word. Two weeks ago. in a game against Ohio State, Anderson got his name in the Big Ten record books by kicking a 63-yarder. The boot was just four yards shy of the all-time NCAA record. 
Over the course of his career, Anderson, who attended Indianapolis' Ben Davis High 

---------~---------------------------------------­
Friday, October 2, 1981 -page 10
The Irish Extra -Michigan State 

Notre Qame's defensive line, led by Pat 
Kramer (right), forces a fumble. (photo bJ' johnMacor) 
By CHRIS NEEDLES 
!>ports Writer 
"The game ofa generation"-New York ~unday News. 
'"The most nC'rt•e-wracking game that couldpossib~J' beplayed . .. a classic in the true sense ofthe u•ord"-Detroit Free Press. 
'"Why didn't you pass, Ara?"-Chicago Tribune, and others. 
The day was November 19, 1966, a little less than I 'i years ago. In that year, there were two No. I teams -Notre Dame and Michigan State, depending on which wire service poll one preferred. 
And, on a cold, dreary South Bend-like day, the two giants squared off in Spartan Stadium in East Lansing to decide who had rightful claim to the bcanstalk. 
Never before had a regular-season college football game captured the attention ofan entire nation like this one did. 1 5 years later, it still remains the "game of the century." 
Spartan Stadium's capacity is 76,000, but a record 80,01 I were squeezed in on this day. The media had it far worse, though; in a press box that was built for 210 reporters, 735 were packed in. On TV, 33 million people watched it on ABC (that, too, was a record). And in Plainville, Conn., Our Lady of Mercy Roman Catholic Church even changed its normal Saturday confession time so as not to conflict with the end of the game. 
It was that big. 
The Irish, under then-third-year coach Ara Parseghian, were listed as four-point favorites, despite being the visiting team and being plagued by numerous injuries to key players. Starting quarterback Terry Hanratty had a separated shoulder, and star tailback Nick Ed­dy was also sidelined and unable to play. 
Despite being the underdogs, Michigan State jumped out to a I 0-0 lead in the second quarter following a scoreless first period. A 42-yard pass completion from Spartan quar­terbackJimmy Raye to split end Gene Wash­ington set up a 4-yard touchdown plunge by 
MSU: mixed memories for Carter 
By TIM PRISTER 
Sports Writer 
Last year's game against Michigan State is one which Phil Carter would like to remem­ber-and forget. The junior co-captain broke Vagas Ferguson's single game rushing record on his 39th carry. However, it was Carter's 40th carry that not only cost him the record, but also some very valuable playing time. 
"I didn't even realize I had carried the ball that much let alone rushed for that many yards," said Carter. "They announced that I had broken the record while I was on sidelines after I had injured my leg." 
What Carter didn't realize was that the an­nouncement was actually incorrect since he had lost two yards on his final carry. 
"I wouldn't be telling the truth if I said I wouldn't like to break a few records, but I prefer to win. A lot ofguys like to set goals for themselves, which is fine. But it doesn't make any sense to rush for all those yards and lose. In a case like that a record would he meaning­less." 
A 1 000-yard season would have been vir­tually automatic had it not been for the debilitating injury against the Spartans. Diagnosed as a bruise, the extent ofthe injury was considerably more severe than the simple word "bruise" indicates. . 
"It was really strange because I walked off the field after the game," said Carter. "But when I woke up the next day, I couldn't move my leg. The swelling started up around the thigh and progressed down my leg to my ankle. It was three weeks before I could walk again." 
After missing the next four games, Carter appeared briefly against Georgia Tech and then resumed his heavy workload carrying 60 times in the next two games. 
"I like to carry the ball a lot," said Carter. "If the coach wanted me to carry the ball 50 times a game I would love it. But Coach Faust.'s offensive philosophy is different from last year. This year ouroffense is not based around one particular aspect. Teams have to be better . 
prepared to defense us because we show them more sets and formations. Consequent­ly, it's my job to be prepared when they call on me, since my role won't be as extensive. 
"Last year we didn't do anything fancy, we just ran right at our opponent. They knew our strength and it was simply up to the opposi­tion to stop us." 
"Coach Faust is really an incredible per­son," continued Carter. "He's so enthusiastic and involved in the offense that sometime's he scares you. You wonder how long his en­thusiasm can last, but it never stops. He knows the game and has a great awareness ofwhat to call in certain situations. There's always going to be second-guessing by the press but the team has confidence in him. The only second­guessing going on now is the second-guessing ofourselves, the team." 
Part of that varied offensive philosophy is the plan to use the services ofGreg Bell as well as freshman Chris Smith at tailback. thus keeping fresh, quick backs in at all times. 
"Greg proved himselfwhen I was recover­ing from a pulled hamstring earlier in the year. He had a great spring and it wouldn't have been fair to throw me in ahead ofhim when I recovered." 
Bell broke away from relative anonymity when he rushed for 50 yards against Navy, including a 27-yard touchdown romp. According to Carter, though, he knew Bell's capabilities. 
"Greg is a tremendous all-around athlete. He has great speed, he's a good basketball player and could probably be tough on a baseball diamond. We went fishing at the beginning ofthe year and he eve!\ caught more fish than I did," joked Carter. 
"Chris is really going to be a good college tailback. His combination ofspeed and strength makes him doubly effective. Last week he literally ran over two veteran defen­ders on one play." 
Carter attracted some attention ofhis own, rushing for nearly 2500 yards as a tailback at Woodrow Wilson High School in Tacoma, Wash!ngton. He was recruited heavily by 
'66 classic 
"Game of the Century" 
several California schools and especially by the University ofWashington and the Univer­sity ofOregon. Yet it was Notre Dame's assis­tant head coach Brian Boulac who helped sway his final decision. 
"All the schools out west had me spoiled,"said Carter. "They were constantly calling me and making these extravagant promises like telling me I would start as a freshman. 
"But I liked the challenge that Notre Dame 
See CARTER, page 11 

fullback Regis Cavender to put :vJSU up, 7-0. Later in the quarter. Raye's 30-yard gallop around end paved the way for a 47-yard field goal by the barefooted Dick Kenney, and State was up 10-0. • 
Notre Dame struck back before halftime, thanks to the work ofa pair of backups. Halfback Bob Gladieux, who ·replaced Eddy, caught a 34-yard TD pass from quarterback Coley O'Brien, who was Hanratty's under­v,udy, to pull the Irish within I 0-7. 
In the second half, the defense took contrJI. Notre Dame's defense, led by all-Americans Jim Lynch and Alan Page, stopped Michigan State on every possession of the second half, while the Spartan defensive corps, keyed by 2H3-pound defensive end Bubba Smith, were nearly equal to the task. In all, the two teams combined for 16 punts on the afternoon. 
On the opening play of the fourth quarter, 
ND'sjoe Azzaro hooted a 28-yard field goal to 
tie the game at I 0-10. In the late stages ofthe 
contest, Azzaro's bid for glory, a 4I -yard field 
goal attempt with 4:41 left, sailed wide to the 
right, and the game remained deadlocked. 
The trouble is, all ofthe above has now 
been forgotten by most, ifnot all, who wit­
nessed the game. Unfortunately, all that is 
remembered ofthe "game of the century" are 
seven insignificant running plays in the last 
minute-and-a-half. 
With I :28 to go, and the score still tied at I 0, Notre Dame took over, following MSU's eighth punt, at their own 30 yard line. The Spartans put in seven defensive backs, as they fully expected the Irish to pass in order to get into field goal range to pull out the victory. 33,080,744 other witnesses expected the same. 
Instead, Parseghian ran seven straight run­ning plays, which gained a grand total of 1 1 yards and one first down, but were enough to waste Michigan State's three remaining timeouts and the remaining 1:28. "We didn't play for any tie." Parseghian said after the game. "Nobody likes tics. But we weren't going to give Michigan State a chance ofwin­ning in the final minute." 
As the final gun sounded, many boos and calls of"chicken" rained down upon the Irish. "We started yelling at them, things like 'come on, sissies,"' said Bubba Smith, no sissy him­self 
But it was Notre Dame who, in the end, had the last laugh. Besieged by criticism for a full week after their Michigan State "cop-out," the Irish took it out on Southern California the next Saturday, SI-0, and eventually were crowned National Champions in both polls. 
Today, though, it is the "game ofthe cen­
tury" that is remembered most about the 
1966 season. It was a game that featured stel­
lar defensive performances, media hysteria, 
and controversy, the likes of which have not 
been seen in the I 5 years hence. 
But, except for the controversy, the 
memory has all but faded away. 

for a few ofhis 254 yards. See related story at left. (photo byjohn Macor) 

The Irish Extra -Michigan State Friday, October 2, 1 981 -page 1 1 


These tuba players 1l'ill be celebrating Band marks its 135th year. See relatedstOTJ' tomorrow as the Notre Dame Marching at right. (photo by Cheryl Ertelt) ­
• • • Kicks 

continuedfrom page 9 
yard fidd goal. Those wne the only points his team would score in a 2'7-3 thrashing, but the kil'k was good enough to get Anderson in the record hook as having tied the distance mark in the stadium. Only Dave Reeve's ';3-yarder 
in a 31-10 Notre Dame loss to Pittsburgh had evt·r gone that distance. 
Both left-footers, Oliver and Anderson arc familiar with long fidd goal tries. In the regular season, Oliver was 2-2 from the other side of midfield, while Anderson has hit 6 of his I 7 tries at ';()yards or more during his carct·r. In fact, the Dane, a double major in German and communications at MSU, once tried to equal the NCAA record in a game against Ohio State. The 67-yard attempt fell just short, however. 
"He rt·ally can do it all," Waters claims with· out hesitation. "In fact, he's only had one kick­off returned all year long, for just I 1 yards. He's simply amazing." 
Anderson hopes to take his amazing act on 
the road, and straight to the NFL, after gradua­
tion. 
"I want to make the pros because I love to 
kkk," he says. "And to earn money for some­
thing I enjoy so much." 
' ' ' Carter 

continuedfmm pa!w 10 
posed. They called a couple oftimes and made me fl'ellikt· I was nn:ded, hut I would havt· to prove mysdf. llikt·d that ht·cause too many things wert· given to me out west. As a junior in high st·hooll rushed for more than 1600 yards and prot·eetkd to have a terrihie senior year. I wa~ still named to the all-State team and several all-American teams. It was really ridiculous. That's why I liked Notre:: Dame. I was tired ofhl'ing spoiled." 
<:arter prowd himself early, playing in all hlll two games as a freshman gaining 14'; yards on 27 carries for a 'i.4 yard average. His efforts earned him the Hering Award each of the last two springs as top offcnsin: hack in spring drills. IIis H22 yards last year is the II th best season total in Notre Dame history. 
Professional timthall is a definite possibility for Carter aftt·r graduation. However, major­ing in communication, he is interested in busi­ness public relations, preferably in the state:: of Washington. 
"I would definitely like to give pro football a shot, hut I don't have to rely on it. I figure if somt•thing happens, God had a reason for it happening." 
There are those kickers who spend their time hoping the outcome ofa game will come down to the accuracy ofone of their kicks. Both these men arc confident, hut would rather sec their team win than their own name in another record book. As Oliver says, "I hope we win every game by three touch­downs." 
Should things work out differently, however, for either side, two ofthe nation's best placekickers will he on the sidelines, and ready to come in to insure victory at a mo· ment's notice. 
• • • Eager 
continuedfrom page 9 
tacular performance in last season's 26-21 win over MSU, rushing one yard shy of Notre Dame's single-game mark of 25'; yards. After missing most ofthe first two games with a hamstring pull this season, Carter returned to his all-American form against Purdue last Saturday with a I 1 3 yard effort. 
Quarterback Tim Koegel, fullback John Sweeney and wingback Tony Hunter all get the call again in the backfield Saturday, though freshmen runners Chris Smith and Mark Brooks looked good last week and should play. Both have moved up to second team on the depth chart. 
The defense has been plagued by injuries, 
wreaking havoc with Faust's platooning on 
the lint·. They'll have a tough time keeping the 
Spartans from scoring, since MSU kicker Mor­
ten Anderson has connected on 1 6 of his last 
20 field goals. Seven ofthose have bcc::n from 
';{)yards or more, including last week's 63­
yard Big Ten record breaker against Ohio 
State. 
Despite Notrt' Dame's slow start, Faust hasn't pushed any panic buttons yet. "We're a good football team. We simply have to stop diminating the little mistakes. But we're get­ting there-one of these days, we're just going to explode." 
Irish fans hope the fireworks begin Satur­day. 
IRISH ITEMS-Guard Randy Ellis and cor· m·rhack.John Krimm will probably miss a few more games with knee sprains... Tackle Pat Kramer (shoulder), Bob Clasby (ankle) and linebackerJoe Rudzinski (shoulder) are doubtful for tomorrow's contest...jeff Lueken returned to the line-up at right end behind Kevin Griffith versus Purdue, and should see action tomorrow...also returning is Tim Tripp, though he's been moved from wingback to split end due to the loss of Dave Con­deni...Tackle Mike Liebenstein may be out for the year with a congenital back problem. 

135 years 
Bandcelebrates anniversary 
By ROBERT WALSH 
Sports Writer 
The Marching Band of the Fighting Irish is 
celebrating its !35th anniversary ofcon­
tinuous existence. The band has experienced 
a memorable and eventful past. The 19R I ver­
sion looks forward to continuing that tradi­
tion with the sense ofcoht·siveness and 
enthusiasm that has long been typical ofNotre 
Dame hands. The first documented 
evidence ofa Notre Dame band dates back to 
commencement of 1 H46. Thehand has played 
at "the circle" at the entrance ofthe Univer­
sity for students leaving in every war since the 
Civil War. It played a benefit concert for the 
victims of the Chicago Fire in IR71 and the 
hand was giving concerts for years before 
Theodore Thomas established the Chicago 
Symphony Orchestra. 
In 1HH7 Notre Dame played its first football 
game and the band was on hand, and the 
group has not missed a home game since. The 
Notre Dame band was among the first in the 
United States to perform percision drills and 
picture formations during the pre-game and 
halftime festivities. 
Saint Mary's girls were added to the mem­bership in 1970 and the group expanded its coeducational policy when the University began admitting women in 1972. The band was declared a "Landmark ofAmerican Music" in 1976 by the National Music Council and the Indiana Music Educators Association. Thus it is easy to sec how rich a tradition the 
organization has. 
The present director is Dr. Robert O'Brien, who has been the man in charge since 1952. The faculty assistant director is Mr. James Phil­lips who received that appointment in 196';. 
SeniorJoe Wren is this year's president. He feels one ofthe most important factors ofthe Marching Band is unity. "The band here al­ways has been a highly spirited group," When says, "and this is because ofthe unity ofband members. This year we have 220 in the Marching Band, including 6<; freshmen. We try to plan various functions among hand members to try to promote togetherness." 
Wren says the band will continue to strive for excellence while planning a few new things. "We've already played at Michigan, and ofcourse we'll continue to play at all the home games and a possible howl game if the Irish are selected. We're always expanding • our program. In fact, during this week's game against Michigan State, we plan on using a new post-game formation." 
This year's drum major is junior Toni Faini, the second woman in as many years to lead the band on the field. Last year, Saint Mary's 
senior Linda Batista was the first ft.· male drum 
major in the group's history. 
Faini feels the cohesiveness and spirit ofthe hand arc very important. "Wc'rt· together a lot, because wt• practice as a group from two to three hours a day, five days a week," she says. '"We get to know each other really wdl and become the closest of frknds. This is more than a band that marcht·s on to a field." 
Ifthey dedicate so much time each day to hand practice, how do hand members still find time to socialize? "To me. this is a social group," responds Faini, "an outlet from 
Notre Dame Marching Band Program for Half-time Notre Dame vs. Michigan State 
The History of the Marching Band 
Radetzky March and American Patrol 
Strauss Lassus Trombone Henry Fillmore 
The Semper Fidelis March 
John Philip Sousa 
The Notre Dame Victory March 
Shea 
The band will play a concert in front of the Administration Building at noon. Step-off for the stadium will follow at 72:45 p.m. The bans will march back to Washington Hall im­mediately after the game. 
.Jcademics. Each section, plus the whole hand. has mixers and get·togethers. I still find some time to do other things. And, since I really have to manage my time effectively, I think the hand helps me prepare for studying." 
Maria Cafarelli. a sophomore. plays clarinet and is aware ofthe price ofexcellence. "Participation in the band takes a lot of time, because besides group drills we have to practice individually," she asserts. "But I con­sider it time wdl spent. I wouldn't trade it for anything!" 
Many freshmen were pleasantly surprised by the unity and enthusiasm surrounding this group. Theresa Schwebel, who also plays the clarinet, is typical of this sentiment. ,;Adore I came here. I was in awe of the tradition and prestige ofthe band and this school. I didn't think that I would ever be a part ofit. But after I made the band, it seemed like I immediately found 200 friends. Now I'm always with band people and the hand has become a big part of my life." 

Big Tim Marshall applies defensive john Macor) • pressure in last year's MSU game. (photo by 
-----·­


Friday, October 2, 1981 -page 12
The Irish Extra -Michigan State 
Fighting Irish vs. Spartans 

------~-­
r," 

Editorials 
Friday, October 2, 1981 -page 13 
Budget limits should apply to everything -not just defense 
For years, structured thinking and discipline have been absent from the budgeting process in the federal government. It seems that the helter skclter manner in which budgets arc passed is a deep source of the lack of confidence many Americans have in the federal government. I suggest that some basic principles have been forgotten. the result. The second method is to 
The first principle is that the borrow the amount of the deficit in budget should be balanced. There are the money markets. Securities of the two methods to fund a deficit, and federal government are more at­both have detrimental economic ef­tractive than other securities with fects. The first method is the execu­comparable rates of return because tion of loose monetary policy by the they are virtually risk-free. Compet­Federal Reserve Board so as to in­ing borrowers must then raise their 
crease the money supply. Inflation is rates of return. This drives interest 
.. 

Jagger symbolizes the American dream 
WASHINGTON-What's a 38­
year-old man doing strutting across a 
stage in skintight pants and blue mas­
cara, as backup guitarists blare away 
nearby? 
Mick Jagger's just living the 
American dream. 
That's why Mr. Rolling Stone is 
sure to generate more interest and 
excitement among Americans under 
40 than did the entire 1980 presiden­
tial campaign as his band launches its 
1981 United .States tour. 
Mick Jagger is what millions of 
Americans, from tennis star John 
McEnroe to television personality 
Jane Pauley, have secretly wanted to 
be: a rock star. After almost 20 years 
in the spotlight, he has managed to 
maintan his youth, sex appeal and 
financial success, the life that most of 
us dream about. 
Of course, Jagger and the Rolling 
Stones are special in today's world of 
music. They've remained steadily 
popular since the early '60s, have 
stayed together and keep churning 
out hit songs. 
While super-hot but shorter-lived 
groups can sellout a national tour 
once, the Stones can guarantee full 
houses whenever they want. After 
mere rumors of a false Stones warm­
up concert hit Boston last week, 
4,000 fans turned out for the non­
existent ticket sale. When the angry 
mob marched to City Hall, even 
Mayor Kevin White felt slighted and 
made an all-out effort to book the 
Stones at the last minute. 
The Stones' drawing power still 
lies in the authenticity and blatant 
sexuality of their lead singer. For 
many, Jagger is the real thing. 
Anyone who's ever been to a 
Stones' concert can attest to this. 
Onstage, ringleader Jagger is part 
stripper and part magician. 
His macho hip thrusts are as un­
mistakably American as is his sel'f­
evident profile. Jagger twists the 
notion of male sex appeal, and 
regularly applies lipstick to his face, 
intriguing men as often as luring 
women. When he makes love to a 
microphone stand.. everybody 
screams for him. 
This may not sound like every 
father's idea of the American dream. 
But the quintessential showman is 
also the consummate businessman. 
While Jagger may appear as fll!kY as 
Peter Pan onstage, he continually 
notes whether spotlights are in place 
or if props arc functioning. If there 
are bugs in the system, he's the first 
one to scream at stagehands during ,·intermission. 
After each concert date, Jagger 
asks his manager for details on 
receipts and the names of spendthrift 
"roadies." He's an admirable 
character who's made his millions 
and hasn't suffered a coronary. 
Most fans still believe that Jagger 
ha§_n't__:_:_solQ_ out to the~_stablish­
ment." They admire any man in his 
late 30s who admits to adultery, 
wears tennis shoes to fancy res­
taurants and insults your mother with 
tasteless record album covers. Jagger 
is living proof that in some fields you 
can do what you want and still make 
it. 
After almost two decades in the in­
ternational spotlight, there's every 
reason to believe Jagger could go on 
like this forever. We may grow old­
er, but he won't. What more could a 
man want? 
Not surprisingly, a lot of American cities are upset that Jagger and his colleagues aren't coming their way during the upcoming fall tour. Philadelphia, Buffalo and Boulder, Colo., are a few of the for­tunate towns to have them. And then there's Rockford, Ill. The Stones agreed to play there after receiving a petition signed by 35,000 residents. 
"They're coming to reward the music lovers," Dallas Cole, a Rock­ford radio director told the Chicago Tribune. "not to sell tickets. They're just very impressed that a city of this size would and could generate this much excitement." 

Maxwell Glen and Cody Shearer 
Here and Now 
Of course, what symbolizes the American dream for one generation often sends a bolt of fear through an older set. Indeed, many Americans may never understand rock 'n' roll. 
But as Jagger and the Stones begin their tour of the states, they deserve three cheers from music lovers of all ages. Having lasted almost 20 years in an industry which leaves few sur­vivors, they are immortals, like 'em or not. Jagger & Co. have proven that self-destruction isn't necessarily a prerequisite to lasting fame. 
The relatively mature man strut­ting so suggestively onstage is hard to argue with. After all, doing what you like most and making money at it is what the American dream is all about. 
Field Newspaper Syndicate 
Viewpoint 

As a returning feature of the editorial page, "Viewpoint" offers people within the ND-SMC community the opportunity to speak out on questions oflocal, national and international importance. 
This week's question: Are the living conditions in campus dorms at 
Notre Dame and Saint Mary's satisfactory to you? 
Please read Golding's Lord ofthe Fltes. 

The biggest problem with living conditions here is the social atmos­
phere. Notre Dame has many social problems exemplified by the amount 
of drinking due to frustration. Many of our problems, I feel, stem from 
an unnatural, unrealistic, and frustrating relationship between male and 
female which originates in single-sex dorms. 

Thus I promote coed dorms. Admittedly since Notre Dame is a bastion 
of conservatism and since ND survives on money from an army of 
traditionalists, coed dorms will never be seen in my lifetime. Probably. 
But hopelessness is no reason to foresake a noble cause. 

The one overwhelming advantage of coed dorms is to achieve a more 
natural, more comfortable living condition. Certainly there is contact 
between members of the opposite sex (MOTOS) in classes and extra­
curricular activities. However, the social base most of us have is the 
residence hall; we work, play and live together. An overwhelming per­
centage of the people we interact with therefore are the same sex as 
ourselves. In Golding's Lord ofthe Flies, young boys are forced to live 
alone without the balancing influence of MOTOS. This is something to 
be said for the obsolete ideal of camaraderie, but I think one can go too 
far. In the book the boys become mentally imbalanced and commit 
various acts of perversion. 

I admit our situation is not the same, but there are some scary similarities. To keep us rational we need MOTOS in everyday contact to console us, to anger us, to stimulate us, to be friendly, and even to be unfriendly. MOTOS are not just our boyfriends or girlfriends, they are the people society has brought up differently by virtue of their sex which can and should influence our everyday life. For this is the way the world turns, with men and women interacting daily in a mature, responsible way. This is the way Notre Dame should operate in order to prepare us to lead a mature and prosperous life. 
David Maloney Alumni Hall 
rates to a higher level on all markets. 
Our abysmal record of adherence 
to this principle over the past 25 years 
has left the Reagan administration 
with the choice of higher inflation or 
higher interest rates until the budget 
deficit shrinks drastically. It has 
chosen higher interest rates. They 
will remain high until the Treasury 
stops borrowing as heavily as it has 
been ($60-80 billion in 1981). 
The second principle is that na­tional defense is the top priority of the federal government, so it should have the first claim for federal funds. The level of defense spending that is adequate depends upon the deter­mination of the national interests and the tactical decision as to the best means to defend those interests. This principle doesn't require that a cer­tain percentage of the budget be all­ocated to defense or that defense spending take the lion's share of the budget. 
The third principle is that new programs of any type which require federal funding should be undertaken only if I) the government has the power and the right under the Con­stitution to enact and administer it, 2) the program's advocates demonstrate a need for the program, and 3) they can show that the program will ac­complish its objectives without harm to other sectors of the co·untry. Ob­jectives should be clear, although they need not be expressed in quan­titative terms. 
The fourth principle is that exist­ing programs should be continued 

Andrew Cochran 
only if its advocates can justify its continued existence on the basis of past results and continued need. These principles are based on the as­sumption that the taxpayers' money belongs to them by right and not to executive branch bureaucrats, Army generals, or other citizens. An excel­lent·reason must exist before the tax­payers' money is spent. 
I recognize that the third and fourth principles are ambiguous. But it seems to me that they have been applied to defense spending since the end of the Vietnam war. The MX missile basing system developed by the Carter administration has been at­tacked for its possible harm to the Southwestern envin1nment. Other 
examples are readily available. Until recently, anybody seeking to apply these principles to non-defense spending and social programs would 
!Je  termed  a  "Neanderthal"  by  
reactionary  liberals.  The  times  are  
changing.  

It is time to apply principles such as these to every dollar spent by the federal government. To do otherwise is to waste the taxpayers' money. The burden of proof lies with the adv­ocates ofspending programs to prove their worth. If the proof is absent, the money should not be spent. In this way, fiscal sanity can be restored to the federal budget and stability can replace panic in our economy. 
Saint Mary's living conditions have a little to be desired. Some ofthe hal/lounges still contain furniture left mafrom the Middle Ages, and us for maintenance requests, it can literally take years for simple con­veniences such as fixing elevators, broken locks and windows to be com­pleted. I have no complaints about my room this year-/live in a huge quad in Augusta. However, I feel SMC can definitely invest some money in improving dorm conditions. And ifthe enrollment trend continues, the administration better think ofeither building a new dorm (which would be horrible) or they had better cut down their enrollment size. 
Pamela Degnan Augusta Hall 

I lived in Holy Cross for three years, and the conditions were 
abominable. If you didn't have a quad or single, the room was small and "" 
had nothing to recommend it. One half of the building was built in 1889, 
and it doesn't seem as if the pipes have been replaced yet. The water 
smells like spoiled eggs, and is completely undrinkable. Bathrooms 
regularly overflow, backing up st:wage all over the hallway and stairs. 
Fun fun fun. 

Ofcourse, mentioning the fact "that the hall is an utter fire trap, and will 
burn in 10 minutes if ever ignited, is pointless. Some four-man rooms 
had only one electrical outlet in the bedrooms, leading to numerous ex­
tension cords and fire hazards. I'm sure Holy Cross isn't the only dorm 
on campus to have these problems either. It's just surprising that the 
administration won't do anything abot.t it. On second thought, maybe 
it's not so surprising. 
Name withheld South Bend 

/' ve lived on campus for four years now and o;•eralll have to admit that campus living conditions have been pretty good. The only complaint that I have is that the singles in Regina are much too small-ifyou're claustrophobic, forget it, you're in real trouble. The hig advantage, however, in a Regina single is the sink-/ think every room should have one. 
/live in an Augusta single now and unfortunately I didn't get the pick of the litter. There is no sink, my floor is hideously tiled and the metal closets add nothing to the decor-but it's the best bet as far as living on campus at SMC. 
Angela Wing 
Augusta Hall 

Next week's question: What should the University administration's number one priority be for the next ten years? 

Editorial Board and Department Managers 
Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 _ Editor·in·Cbief.........................................)ohn McGrath SMC Executive Editor .....................Mary Agnes Carey The Observer is an independent newspaper published by the students ot the Managing Editor......................................Tom Jackman SMC News Editor ................................Cathy Domanico University of Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily 
· News Editor.............................................Tim Vercellotti
reflect the policies of the administration .of either in~titutlon. The news 1s reponed Business Manager ....................................Rich Coppola
News Editor ..................... ................................Kelli Flint 
controller....................................................... .)oe Mulflur
as accurately and as objectively as poss1ble: Ed1tonals represent the opm1on of a 
Sports Editor .........................................Michael Ortman 
Advertising Manager......................................Mark Ellis
majority of the Editorial Board ..Comr1_1entanes, opmwns, and letters are the v1ews Features Editor ....................................Anthony Walton 
Production Manager..............................Michael Monk 
•

of their authors. Column space ts available to all members of the c~mmunu~. and 
Circulation Man~ger ........................Tom MacLennan
Photo Editor...................................................)ohn Macor
the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters. 1s encouraged. 
• 
• 
The 0 bserver Friday, October 2, 1981 -page 14 
The Observer will accept classifieds Mon­day through Friday, 10 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. However, classifieds to appear 1n the next issue must be received by 3 p.m. the business day pnor to insertion. All classifieds must be prepaid, 
either in person or through the r'lail. 
Classifieds 
REWARD! I need a rrde back from the
I. 
D.C. area durrng October break AFTER 
the USC game If you can help call me! '--------------' George-3182 
NOTICES 
Need rrde to SAN FRANCISCO area for USED BOOK SHOP. HOURS WED , Oct. break-call Paul at 8626/8604 SAT. SUN 9-7. CASPERSON. t303 BUCHANAN RD . NILES Will top highest bid for 2 FSU GA's 
Chrls8930 TYPING' Fast. accurate typrng al reasonable rates. If you need somethtng WANTED. Room-srzed carpet in white. 1n a hurry, I can type 1t tor you. No JOb too • tan or brown. Call 8621. brg or small. Close to campus. Call Lynn Saylor, 233-3423. anytime. Need rrde to and from Daytona Bch for 
October break. Will share usual. Donna USED & OUT-PRINT BOOKS bought. 2734 sold, searched. ERASMUS BOOKS. Tues-Sunday, 12-6. 1027 E. Wayne (One NEED A RIDE TO THE O.C./BALT. block south of Eddy-Jefferson Intersec­AREA FOR OCT. BREAK! CALL TOM at 
tion) 16891 
ATTENTION L.LER'S OCT. BREAK The ND-SMC Gymnastics Team is BUS: LEAVING OCT. 16, RETURNING looking for a coach. Anyone tnteresed, OCT 23 CALL JOHN; 8437 especially grad-students, please call 
Brran McLauglin (1872) or Patti Larkrn (4­Horse for lease. 1 mile north of N.D Ex­1-4604). perienced englrsh riders only. call Reeny 234-4985 Married couples, part-time, live in 
houseparents relief tor residential treat­ATTENTION: ment facrlity. Work wrth adolescents. The movie, ·superman" will be shown Fri. Great experience in psychology and and Sat .. Oct. 2 and 3, at 7, 9:30, and mid­counseling. Must be 21 years old. Call night rn the Engrneerrng Aud. Admissron Christrne Pochert, 259-5666. $!-members of the KofC free 
WANTED A Bass player tor a Jazz-Rock BACKGAMMON PLAYERS! Send tor band call Tom 1360 or Mike 1373 FREE copy of premier rssue of 
Backgammon Times", exciting and intel­ATTN CLEVELANDERS-NEED RIDE ligent reading. Write: 575 Madison Ave. HOME OCT9 ANY INFO CALL PAT 8816 NYC 1 0022 Rm. 1 006 
LOST/FOUND IIL-_F_O_R_SA_L_E_____. 
lost: 5 BeachBoys Tickets. Last seen in -8-Line of North DrnrngHall. If you have them please call-1188. Reward for return. 
LOST: a two tone blue sweat jacket Reward, call v1nce x1238 
LOST or 'borrowed' from the South Drning Hall· A blue windbreaker with 'LENOX' in orange on the back. It means a lot to me so if you know anything about it, please call Justin at 311 0. Thanks 
LOST, 1 Kodak camera in a black case with ""bug" wriHen on it. Was siting in front of library on curb. If you found it call Jane at 7628. Reward. 
FOUND: Brown sweater in O'Shag. Call t764Mike. 
LOST: Soccer Ball on Monday, Sept. 28, approx. 9 PM at Cartier during St. Ed's -Morrissey game. The ball is black paneled and clearly marked HUNK" Please contact Mike Hunkler, 209 Morris­sey, x3507. Thank You. 
lost: Wht. & Blue Skr Vest, probably left in Hayes Healey classroom. Please call Tom x1689 or lost and found. 
LOST Green Field or thereabouts -one wallet. Please return toTed. 233-3552 
LOST small tan clutch purse in O'Shag classroom PLEASE return if found. Need 
I.D.'s desperatly. Donna 2734. 
LOST: Head Tennis Racket at ·E" line North Dining shelves on 9-18 Please call Tom at 1470. 
LOST:TWO GOLD RINGS AT THE ROCKE. EXTREME SENTIMENTAL VALUE.IF YOU HAVE ANY INFORMA­TION PLEASE CALL CINDY-3141. 
LOST: A 72 Burck Skylark somewhere on Green Field after the LSU game. If seen or found, please call Tom at 1058. 
LOST: $25.00 CASH OUTSIDE OF HOWARD HALL CALL PETER(3106) REWARD 
FOR RENT 
Student housing, clean, safe, laundry, kitchen, rated superior. $100 includes all. 291-1405. 
female roomate needed to share com­fortable two bedroom house near campus. call289-6731 
N 0 APTS 1/3 or 2/3 suite sublease available reasonable call Dave at 283­1169 or 288-4170 anytime 
WANTED 
WANTED: GA's FOR ANY HOME GAMES, CALL PAUL 8509 
DESPERATELY need FLST.TIX--ST or GA--call Steve-8655 
SENIOR WEEK CHAIRMAN and SENIOR FELLOW CHAIRMAN applica­tions are now available for all interested seniors. Pick up applicaions in the Stu­dent Activities office in LaFortune. DEADLINE OCT. 15. 
Need riders to Cleveland (leaving Fri. Oct. 
2) -Going to John Carroll. Call John 3527. 
NEED: Lots of Tix to all home games' esp. Fla. St. & Navy Call Phil 1150 
FOR SALE: 2 USC GAS. BEST OFFER. CALL277-6108. 
TICKETS 
Penn St. ticket wanted please call Donna at6771 
2 GA FLORIDA STATE TIX NEEDED BADLY.MONEY NO OBJECT.Bob 234­0418 
Will pay top$ for NO-USC game tickets. Need 6 tickets. best location available. Please call collect (714) 835-6505 ask for Tony Herenda or Judi Carlos. 
Need 4 MSU and 4 USC GA tix. John 1001 
DESPERATELY NEED USC TIX. AM WILLING TO TRADE ROLLING STONE TtX TO DETROIT SHOW NOV.30. PREFER G.A.s, BUT MIGHT SETTLE FOR STUDENT TIX. CALL CHRIS AT 1678. 
TWO GA FSU TICKETS. MONEY NO OBJECT. CALL BOB 234-0418. 
need three GAs for USC please help 
call3691 
NEED 2 GA TIX TO USC WILL PAY WELL CALL RAY AT 8371 
Need tix for October 3 Mich. St. game 
Call Beth. 6945 
I need MSU trx! as close to 10 as I can get PRICE NO OBJECT call DOUG 8838 
I NEED 4 GA TICKETS TO THE NAVY GAME. CALL PETER 1222. 
Need MSU and Ga. Tech GA's desperately. Call Paul at 1222. 
Need Penn State tix. Call Stan. 3006. or 
3008. 
WEAL THY friend needs 4 good(inside­30.above row 20) USC TIX. MONEY IS NO OBJECT-WILL TOP YOUR BEST BID!Call Jim 283-1863$$$ 
I have 4 GA tixs to Any Home game, and am willing to trade for Penn. St. only Call 4609 
NEED 2 GA TIX FOR NAVY GAME ­WILL PAY!! CALL CASEY AT 227-5626 
NEED 2 STUDENT TIX FOR USC GAME -MONEY NO OBJECT!!!! CALL CASEY AT 227-5626 
I NEED MSU TIX!! Up to 7 needed;prefer G.A.'s but will take stud.'s CALL ED 1686. 
Need 2 GA's for Florida State. Call Stan, 3006. 
Qua Pasa! I need one GA or student tx for FSU. Call Steve 6645 
Need 2 GA'S for GA. TECH and/or NAVY. Call FRANK 8820 
Need 4 TIX to PENN STATE. CALL FRANK8820 
NEED 6 MSU GA TIX FOR FAMILY$$$ CALL 272-8156 
t need four of those USC tix. Call Tom at 4626 
NEED USC TIX. One student and G.A. Call Steve 3661. 
Need 2 GA MSU tix. Money is no obJect. Call Susan 41-4361 
t need 6 GA's and 1 stu. or GA tix for fami­lycoming to FSU game. Call x1729. .............."&........... . 

ANN WEBER SAYS THE PRETTY GIRL DOESN'T NEED TICKETS. BUT HER ROOMMATES STILL DO. SO IF YOU CAN HELP THEM OUT WITH GA'S FOR ANY GAME CALL 6773. 
NEED 2·4 NAVY GAs WILL PAY OR TRADE FOR TICKETS. CALL MONTY 1068. 
F S.U. student trcket for sale. Need any NAVY GA's. Will buy or trade call4641 
Help! Need 2 or 4 NAVY GA'S. Call Jon. 8892 
WILL PAY ANY riNG FOR SOUTHERN tAL STUDENT TICKETS CALL DAN 234 144t 
1 NEED 2-4 GAs FOR Fsu iss CALL DAVE 277-5883 
NEED several GA's for MSU call Jim 1593 
Desperately need 2 or 4 GA Michigan State tix. Call Cathy -8085. 
Need 2 MSU tix (student or GA) for brothers. Call Ted 8424 
WANTED: 2 GA's or 1 GA & 1 stud. trx to FSU call VINCE xt238 
Desperately need two G.A. tickets for 
M.S.U. game. Tickets for Alumni of class of 56. If you can help out please call Dick at x3279 or at x3283. 
I NEED 2 NAVY G.A.'S ---$$$ CALL PAUL8452 
NEED MANY FSU TIX (GA). WILL PAY BIG BUCKS AND FIRST BORN SON.CALL TOM-1175. 
HELP!! Need 4-5 FSU GA's for visiting family! Save a life! CALL KEVIN 1658 
Need 2 GA Mich. St. tix,Call Jim:289­5311 
Need MSU student tickets, please call Tim at 8923 
HELPIII DESPERATELY NEED STU­DENT OR GA TIX TO MSU GAME. Please call Paula at 4688 SMC. 
I NEED TWO G.A. TICKETS TO M.S.U. GAME. CALL ROB AT 277-6065. 
I NEED 2 OR 4 MSU GA'S. CALL JASPER AT 1744 
NEEDED, 4 NAVY GA TICKETS.JOE, 8862 
TICKETS I NEED 3 STUDENT AND 2 
G.A. FOR MICH. STATE 

DESPERATELY NEED GA TIX FOR USC AND PENN STATE CALL MARTHA 4449. 
Will pay or trade almost anythrng for Mich. St. ticket for dad. Call Mrke at 8657. 
HELP: I NEED AN EXTRA TICKET TO THE MSU GAME. HAVE 2-WILLING TO TRADE FOR 3 AND PAY THE DIF­FERENCE FOR THIRD. IN FACT. COULD USE AN EXTRA TICKET FOR EACH OF THE REMAINING HOME GAMES UNDER THE SAME ARRANGE­MENT-EXCEPT FOR FLORIDA STATE -NEED3 FOR THAT GAME. CALL DAVE I. -3546 
TOP DOLLAR FOR USC GA CALL SUE (SMC) 4889 
URGENT need two MSU trx student or GA 
For SALE: student USC. Best offer. Laura 2858. 
NEED 2 NAVY GA TIX, CALL SUSAN x8020! 
FLA ST !!! I'M DESPERATE-WILL PAY .. 'A~~THING FOR TIXS JENNY 41-4507 
······~·-····················································· 
NEED'f.1SU TICKETS CALL CHOW 7289 
DESPERATELY NEED 2 OR 4 FSU GA TIX!!! PLEASE CALL LISA AT 6848 
I need 4 GA's for MSU. Will pay $45 cash per pair or $95 for 4 together. Call JC at 8446 while he still has money. 
need 3 USC Ga's will pay $50 each. Steve 1854 
FLORIDA! FLORIDA! 

(tickets.) I need TWO G.A. ·sand TWO student tick­ets to the Florida St. game I pay mucho dinero. O.K.? Call Jim at 8641. 
Parents threatening me! Help! Need 3 FSU GAs. Call Brian 4521 
NEED STUDENT TICS FOR MSU. PREFERABLY TOGETHER. CALL MIKE AT 1692 NIGHTS. 
HIGH SCHOOL FOOTBALL FANS NEED FLORIDA STATE TIX. Call Tom at 3573 
NEED 2 FSU TIX.WILL PAY $60 AND UP. ED 1208. 
HAVE 2 MSU TIX.WILL TRADE FOR FSU.ED 1208. 
BIG $$$$$ for 2 GA TIX & 2 ST TIX for GEORGIA TECH. PLEASE call BEFORE BREAK!!JAYat 1703 
Desperately need 'tix for Michigan State. Dave 1809 
NEED'!! Two G.A TIX For M.S.U. Game. MONEY NO OBJECT !!' Call Gordon 3001. 
NEED MSU & FSU GA TIX CALL TOM x8391 
NEED 3 ADJACENT MSU GAs CALL PHIL 1764 
NEED 3-4 FLA ST GAs FOR FAMILY. WILL PAY TOP$ CALL TIM 277-7590 
2 USC GA's needed. Please call MARK at 184t 
THE SUN WILL NOT SHINE BRI'G.HT ON MY OLD KENTUCKY HOME UNLESS I COME UP WITH 2-4 GA TICKETS FOR FLORIDA STATE FOR MOM. DAD AND OTHER RELATIVES.$$$! 283-6282 
2 USC GA NEEDED. BUT bro and new dad-in-law can only afford $70 for the pair SACRIFICE extra $ for a great cause. Gib-t628 
Have two MSU GA tix, will trade for two FSU GA tix. Call Erin 1321 
need GA's for Usc will pay your price!! call 1625 
Desperately need 1 FSU and 2 USC Tix. Call Buzz 8265 
Need 2 FSU GAs Dave 2891916 
Need 2 GA tix to FSU game. Call Barb 5135 SMC. 
NEED 4 FSU TIX. PLEASE CALL 5157 
DESPERATELY NEED 3 GA TIX TO FLORIDA STATE. WILL PAY $$$t PLEASE CALL PAULA AT 232-8301. 
Needed: NAVY GA's or Student's. Mark 277·6.108. 
DESPERATE ALUMNI NEEDS GOOD TICKETS TO USC GAME. CALL COL­LECT (BEFORE 2PM): JOHN DE ROSA (213) 485-1100 
I could use 500 Georgia Tech GA's, but if you have 3 please give me a call. Jeff 6988. 
NEED FLORIDA ST. TICKETS Would like up to 3 GA's. Please call Jeff 1764 or 1761 
I NEED 2 MSU STUDENT TIX WILL PAY $$$call: STEVE x1816 
NEED GA. TECH TIX FOR LITTLE SIS­TER'S BIRTHDAY CALL DAN 8477 
PERSONALS 

Watch for Mary Beth Sterling and her leather pants. Coming USC weekend to a stad1um near you. 
Whither Frank LaGrotta? 
Harry Kalas is a god. 
Paul Karlsson. We hear you shot your dog. 
2 Wild girls need ride to Gainesville, Fla (or in general vrcinrty) for October break Will help with $ and gas. Can leave anytime. Call Pam or Susie 41-5236. 
Kelly Tripucka for UMOC. Vote early and often. 
And the killer is Palmer Courtlandt! 
Good worker, somewhat bungling, available for odd JObs. Looking for work in St. Louis. Call Wally McFadden. 
HAIRBRAIDING for all occasions. 291­8215 
Cakes, gifts, phone calls, leners ... don't send them 'cause a BELL YGRAM is bet­ter! Student Rates 291-8215 
Welcome to South Bend Roundy, Shorty and Mana! 
ATTENTION BOOKSTORE DEVOTEES!!!!! Bone Bourret is_here. Genuflect. 
To the current occupant of 151 Morrisey. Evacuate the shrine. BONE IS BACK!!!! 
Backbone? 
EXPERIENCED TYPIST WILL DO TYPING. CALL287-5162. 
$$$$$$$ 
ATLANTA! ATLANTA! ATLANTA! 

(October break.) I need a ride for TWO if you are going to or through. Will share driving and expenses. Call Jeb x 8649. 
ATLANTA! ATLANTA! ATLANTA! 

Spare Time Advertising Salesperson wanted for tocal alternative newspaper 20 percent COMMISSION. CALL Mark or Mike at 232-0854 after 4 p.m. 
MSU student trx or NAVY GA needed rmmedrately-Mrke 8854 
Pardon me.. I'd like to speak to you about.. Football tix I need 3 MSU GAs Please call Mike 3260. 
COPY EDITORS-Please pick up critiqued papers. 
COPY EDITOR NEEDED FOR SUNDAY EVENING SHIFT. PAID$$$$ POSITION. ENGLISH MAJORS PREFERRED. CALL THE OBSERVER (1715). 
IN DESPERATE NEED OF TWO RIDES TO DETROIT FOR OCT. BREAK. PLEASE CALL TARt AT 7870. 
Thomas Moore and Elenore~ Th1s sub­scription is for you, You deserve it more than before, for all that you've been through' Sent 4 kids to the Dome. Supportrng them all the way. We may be far away from home. But our love is there 
to stay! 

Tired of Keggers? Eat Hungarran In­stead!!! Neighborhood Roots Thursday, Oct. 8, 4-Sp.m. Meet at Library Circle Cost: $3.00--lncludes Hungarian meal Tickets on sale at North and South Dinrng halls Friday, Monday and Tuesday--Oct. 2. 5&6. 
BOSTON CLUB October Break Bus Signups: Mon. Oct. 5 7-8 pm LaFortune 
NEED RIDE TO DALLAS OVER FALL BREAK! CALL JOHN. 234-9709. 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY SMELLEN AND BRIEFS LET'S MAKE THIS WEEKEND THE BEST ONE YET! GET READY TO SLEEP IN THE CIRCLE. KEEP ON CHUCKIN' LOVE, CHRISSY AND MIS­SY 
GOT A SPECIAL FRIEND STUDYING OVERSEAS THIS YEAR? PAY TRIBUTE TO THAT SPECIAL SOMEONE THIS FRIDAY AFTERNOON FROM 1-3 PM. JOIN HOST MARVIN GARDENS" ON WSND AM-64 FOR THE DEDICATION SHOW 
atlanta! ATLANTA! atlanta! 
(october break.) I need a ride for two if you are going to or through Atlanta take us with you. Please call Jeb at 8649 or Colleen at 41­4424. 
ATLANTA! atlanta! ATLANTA! 
M&M's SURE TASTE SWEET! G.J 
GREG O'MEARA is 21 today!!! Make hrm happy-take advantage of his body!!! 
TOMORROW rs Mary O'Keefe's 21st. This girl is a WOMAN now!!! 
SUSIE VASTA is turning 21 !!! At last, she's legally WASTED!!! 
Quilty Boy. You're now a score: Irs about time you go for more. It's not enough to cop a feel, You're a man now -make them squeal! 
The 7th floor may be your home But in your desk you re not alone: Agator sits upo"n your sweater and beneath it your heart yearns for 
Fester! 

Tonight's the night -the J.D. awaits. Say good-bye to the pearly gates: They don t let in the drunken fools Or Quintets that break all the rules! 
HAPPYB-DAY Your Fellow F.U.'s 
PROBLEMS? QUESTIONS? GAY STUDENT HOTLINE 283-6282 FRirW9-11PM 
BOSTON BUS SIGNUP, MONDAY, 7-8, LaFortune, Bring $110, includes all. 
The qoute of year as submitted by A. W. of Farley: '"A Mrs. degree Is more Im­portant than a PhD.'" You've got to be kidding, I mean.... 
Hey Shelley,you finally made it to NO! Only took a year! Thanx for coming. Mick 
Ryan, So sorry that I haven't written yet. I will soon. Miss seeing you around here. I even miss the sweater jokes (just a little). Look forward to seeing you 1n November. Momca 
Mooooooo! Just a little, she says. That's how those JOkes started in the first place. 
John, Happy belated birthday. Hope you had a great 21st. Shari wants to know when the quarters game start. Hope you have a great year. 
Amy, Monica. Julie, and Shari 
Susie Vasta, 

Happy 21!! After 4 long years, you've finally hit the big time. Now, at least I'll have a drinking buddy, you party anrmal!! 
Corby's here we come!! Have fun, Love, Pam 
MOLLY GROOVESTONE! TU AS 20 ANS. BON ANNIVERSAtRE! 
LOVE, YOUR BABOOS Who rs FREDDY OZIOLA???? 
GENERAL HOSPITAL SCOOP NUM· BER2 LAURA DIES IN DECEMBER MORE LATER 
JA. It doesn'l matter to me whether or not you become a btg-ttme lawyer: you re my btg SISter' and ru always love you. Good luck tomorrow. and don·t worry! 8 
DE SPERA TEL Y NEED RIDE TO MASS­ACH-USETTS FOR BREAK. Wrll share expenses Call Martha at 4530 SMC 
CONGRATULATIONS MK, WE LOVE YOU, THE GANG 
To Jill, Mary, and EVERYONE who made 
my 20th brrthday so specral. thank you-rt 
was the best and so are you all. 
Love, Sue 
HEY CLEM, GOOD LUCK ON YOUR LSAT EXAM REMEMBER. STUDY HARD NOW, AND DON'T CRAM. ADELLE & MOM. 
KNOCK EM DEAD KURILA ON THOSE LSAT'S 
GYMNASTS All members of the ND-SMC Gymnastrcs Team are remrnded to be at the Carnation Sale and Exibition Satur­day at 10 am. We need every-one to help sell. Please meet at te south quad flagpole. 
NADER FANS ... Please call 6923 if you took pictures of Mr. Nader or recorded his speech. Replies sincerely appreciated. 
BECKY (BOO-BOO) 
HAPPY 18TH LITTLE SIS. I'M SO 
GLAD YOU'RE HERE. 
LOVEYA,AMY 
P S. WATCH OUT BENET HERE COME 
THE FROSH! 
ANNOUNCING PITTSBURGH CLUB 
BUS srgnup meetrng on Tues. Oct. 6, 
1981 at 7:00 P M LaFortune Little 
Theater. Buses will leave Oct. 16 and 
return an Oct. 23 and 25. Cost for round 
trip rs $45.00; one way $29.00. Ques­
tions?--Call IKE at 1581. 
PITTSBURGH CLUB 
October Break Bus Signups and meeting: Tues. Oct. 6 7:00PM. LaFortune Little Theater Questions--Call IKE at 1581 
Mr. Perfect Melcior: 
We luv you tons even with your groovy 
glasses! 
From Lisa and Carole, the Texan Spazes. 
P.S. We JUS! thought you·d like to see your name in print 
Cara-Thanks for the nights we had; where did they go? I strll have your panties!!! Come over tonight to get them Love, Dominic 
TIRED OF KEGGERS?---EAT HUN­
GARIAN INSTEAD!! I 
Neighborhood Rools 
October 8 --4-Sp.m. 
Meet at Library Circle 
Cost: $3.00 --Tickets available Friday 
and Saturday, Oct. 2&3 North and South 
Dining Halls Hungarian dinner included 
HEY! MALES OF THE NORTH QUAD! 
Gorgeous, SEXY SANDY WASHEK of 
304 PW is celebrating her 19th 
BIRTHDAY on Oct. 4th. Your rdea of a good trme is hers! COME. collect tree brrthday KISSES! We love ya' kiddo! 
Ms.'s F,M,K,P-Mr. Washington will put you away· Nov. 6. La Machrne 
MARK MANLEY is a FATHER! CONGRATULATIONS. MARK. ON THE BIRTH OF YOUR SON IN CINCINATTI. LAST CHRISTMAS BREAK MUST HAVE BEEN SOME HONEYMOON! WE'RE ALL WONDERING THOUGH, WILL JR GROW UP TO BE AS TALL AS HIS DAD­DY? 
YOUR LITTLE SIS 
(or in JR ·swords. AUNT SUSIE) 
MIKE, HAPPY 22ND BIRTHDAY! AND YOUR NOT TOO BAD YOURSELF! LOVE. REH 
MIKE. 
HAPPY 22ND BIRTHDAY! 
Hey, I read that somewhere before!? 
Oh, wow -deja moose!! Just when 
you thought it was safe to read the per­sonals, the Restless Shade of Moose Control bestirs himself and makes his presence known 1n the m1dst of this literary abyss. 
He has removed himself to the 
Debelian Sector and even now 
As a phoenix from the ash, so I from the dead do rise, And before me my path clear and un­broken lies And as I at last remove me from my resting place I strive with new purpose to fill my time and space. 
Never again so still and cold will! be And nothrng, rf not this, will you learn from me: But that though solitary men may strong appear None there are who loneliness do not fear 



The Observer 
li 
I 
~~~~ ~~~~ 
I 
~m ~~~ 
=·=· ·:·:
::::.::: 
ill :1 
Ill I! 
•••:•••• :~\l :[l\ 
l~l~ 1111 
II 
-r =p
l 

_..............·•.·-···--._ :?~lMi.~~--~~·~~ 
"-:: '::'" ' 
,. .V· ! 

~---~---.---~-~a~~.
L-..1 

...--ie"""''",_..,•......,._"~"¥' ¥,... ~fi'Y'II'--· _...,_-~~ -------~----· !:._ ;_ 
.... ,,


•••• ' :·c 
.·.· ·.·. i-~ 
m. 
·-~.....C 
..._._:..;,. 
··> .. 
:.:,...~' .. ·~~ 


~=:~::;:;:;:;:;.;:;:;.;:;.:;:::::::::::::::::::::·:::::::·:·:-:·:-::;.;.;::.:·:·:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:;:;:;::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:;:::::::::::;:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:;:;:;:;.:;::::::::::::::::::::: 


I l 
The Observer-Sports Friday, October 2, 1981 -page 16 

Irish Extra -Special Football ~·. Edition 
From Moeller to otre e... 

Sports, politics--a perfect lllatch? 
Some years ago, in a burst of hyperbole, I wrote a 
piece for the World Book, the thrust ofwhich as a fanci­
ful scenario in which an Olympic Games of the future 
took place at an undisclosed site, and the principals to it 
were spirited to the venue in bulletproof cars and the 
contests were beamed out to the \VOrld via a security­
tight group ofTV specialists. There were no spectators. 
autograph seekers, photographers, reporters, only 
armed guards, Secret Service. and participants. No one 
else knew to the nearest contim:nt where the Games 
were being plaved. 
Wei!, there was some <.lis(~usston as to whether that 
picturt· was overdrawn. I conct:"ded that it probably 
was. but that the broa<.l outlines were ac~·urate. The in­
truson of politics into sports was total and irreversible. 
The Games people played were too effective a stage for 
political activism. 
Comes now the wire service stories of last week which read like my piece for the encyclopedia. The htadline tells it all: ·'Springhoks, Whisked Into Racine, Play Secret Match." An international rugby game scheduled for Chicago had to be smuggled to Wiscon­sin. "To foil prot~stors who·threatened to disrupt Satur­day's game, the time and location of the match kept secret," the wire services said. "The president of the Racine rugby club said he was not notified till 9 p.m. Friday that his club would play host --ticketholders were notified to drive to a restaurant parking lot just 
across the Illinois-Wisconsin border where they were given further instructions from the occupants of an old green car." 
Once again, life imitates art. Tht~ science fiction of one decade is the hard fact of the next. To turn sports back into what it was in the days ofFrank Merriwell and Yale and Harvard is to try to stuffthe genii back into the bottle. 
It all began, for better or for worse, with Tommie Smith and John Carlos raising black gloves in the air at Mexico in 1968. a simple defiant gesture that c:scalate<.l into mass murder at the next Olympics. As a pros­cenium for making a political statement, the Olympics was the Palace. rhey used to shoot archdukes, now they shoot pole vaulters. 
When Jimmy Carter sought to punish Russia for 
invading Afghanistan, did he call out the marines? No, 
he boycotted the Olympics. He got the world's atten­
tion in a way no white paper everomld. Never mind the 
boycott as silly and indfectual. :-.lever mind that one 
yt·ar later. almost to the day, a U.S. track and lldd team 

.&m Mmray 
Best of Jim Murray 
would take the tield in a meet on Russian soil against 
Russian athletes and that, instead of precious gold 
medals. they would get clock radios for their victories. 
The first three rows of Lenin Stadium in Moscow last summer were taken up with Red Army troopers. They wore warm-up ~uits and gay caps, but they were the same tough guys who drovt· tanks through the streets of Prague and. maybe. Kabul. 
The South African rugby team has caused more mis­chief to the Olympic movement than Cartn, Carlos or Yasscr Arafat (who, by the way, was an honored gue~t at the Moscow Olympics, if you can believe it). In 1976, just because the :"lew Zealand rugby team had played South Africa, the entire contintnt ufAfrica withdrew its athletes from the games. This year. the Springbo~s· tour threatens the: very existence of the games. Russia is itching to avenge the Carter insult and will seize any excuse to jerk the Games out ofthe U.S.. 
And what will be the biggest expense of the 1984 Games? The same as was the case in the last four Olym­pics --security. Who can forget the Mexican Army lined solidly along IT nsurgentes Ave. on the route to Az­tec Stadium in 1968? Or the secret police in the pansy blue and the white capped diguises at Munich in 1972? The Montreal police who amost outnumbered the spec­tators in 1976? I don't know what Red Army privates on active duty get in the way of pay, but Moscow looked like an occupied city in 1980, and the journalists' freedom of movement extended largely to the distance between the front door metal detector at the hotel and the boarding step of tht press bus. It had to cost a grtat deal even in rubles. 
I don't know who the genius in the State Department is who OK'd the South African rugby tour here, but he should get the ldi Amin Award a!'> the person who has done most to solidify li.S. -African solidarity in the Olympic movement. Arafat must be rolling on the floor laughing. 
Separate sports from politics? Take diplomacy out of spike shoes? Take tides out of the octan first. Politics has always been a part ofsport, ever ~lm:e the Christians 
and the lions. 

cinatzng, rynamtc stor_y man who 
vaulted from a successful high school coaching position to head coach of the country's 
most legendary football team. 
New 
Release 
Now Available! 
$12.95 
. 

McKinney opens camp today 
INDIANAPOLIS (AP) ­
The Indiana Pacers, who made the 
NBA playoffs for the first time last 
season, opC:n training camp today, 
and alreadv coach Jack McKinney 
has suffered hts tirst disappointmtnt. 
McKinnty, sdected the ltague's 
coach of the year last season, had an­
ticipated veteran Kevin Grevey 
could be among the players he'd be 
taking to camp at Bloomington, Ind. 
However. the Washington Bulltts 
c:xerciscd their right to match In­
diana's offer and retain Grevey. 
"I was quilt' disappointed we didn't get Ktvin," said :\-1cKinney yesterday as the Pacers held a photo and media day betc>re leaving tor training camp. "I had him ptnciled in as to what we could do offensively and now our biggest need is the backup scoring guard we an­ticipated Kevin would b~· " 
There are four rookies. including 
first-round draft pick Herh Williams, 
alnong the 1 S plavers reportmg for 
Friday's first workout. Of the: four. 
Williams is the onlY one in conten­
tiOn for the starting live. 
"llikc him," said ~lcKinney ahout 
Williams. a 6-fo•H· l l former ( >hio 
~tate star who could be the team·s 
~tafl ing center. 
·'I don't want 10 put pressure on 
him ami go overboard, but I bcliev"' 
he has the ability to become a very 
goo<.! player. better than just an 
avera~e NBA plaver." 
McKinney said he was optimistic 
about the nt\\ st:ason and expected 
rhe Pacer~ w be better than they 
were during his first season here. 
Howc:ver. ht said if Indiana only 
equals last season's 44 victorits it 
could have difficulty reaching the 
playoffs.
Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore 


-~-----~-, 

The Observer-Sports 
• 

continuedfrom j)(qw 20 
",\1y mother has always stressed to nc that sometimes the Good Lord won't always come to you when you want llim," recalls lluntcr. "But o;omdww lit-always comes. lie is al­ways thcrt· and lie's going to do 
·hat's ht·st li>r you." 
llunter has managed to success­ully incorporate his strong faith in ;od with anothc:r major aspect of lis life, football. 
"l used to get rc:ally down on nysc:lf when I didn't do something I hought I was ahk to do," he dlccts. "But now that doesn't hap­t·n hecausc I know I give it all I've •ot and that it just wasn't meant to 
c." 
Tony's deep faith has hc:lpc:d him 
o hetter <.kat not only with in­
ividual scthacks, but also with the osst·s the Fighting Irish have suf­ered recently. 
"We've had some pretty rough imes this year," he understated, and I don't know if I could have andkd tht·m last year or the yt•ar efore." 
·mztinuedfrom page 20 
ore Pam Fishettc move up to the 
o. I doubles position and freshmen 
:amille Cooper and Laura Lee team ill tc:am at No. 2 doubles. 
"It will depend on how the other 
oaches make their choices," Petro 
xplains. "If they all go my route 
splitting their top doubles team 
ith the goal of winning two singles 
atches instt·ad of one doubles 
natch) the No. I singles should have 
lot of good people. It could be 
ntt·rt·sting. 
"And you nc:ver want to overlook our douhlc:s," Pc:tro continues. "I ·cl our No. 2 doubles is a strong t·am and I fed they can compete in 
he No. I slot." 
But despite the success the Irish ave: t·njoyed this fall, there arc omt· weaknesses. 
"Tht· No. ~ douhles is where have: ad a li:w prohlt-ms," Petro says. But they arc: freshmen and just et·d a little bit more work together. 
***•*******w*****************************************************************************1 
" 
River City Records Announces the Concert ofthe year... 
..• 
.. 
" 
.. 


" 
..... 
... 
... 
... 
... 
... 
... 
... 
... 
... 
*
* 
..
* 
*•
... 
*
*
*
*
*
*... 
... 
* 
•.. ~ 
Special Guest:SANTANA •
*
*... Tuesday -December 1, 1981 * 7:30p.m. ** ... 
*...
Pontiac Silverdome * Pontiac, Michigan *
* 
Special Charter Bus Package! 
includes: *round trip bus transportation from 
River City Records to Pontiac Silverdome. Bus departs at l:OOp.m., 
:~e~:e~hsme~~po~o:u·s 3:30 a.m. 
• Ticket to The Rolll"ng Stones/Santa.na concert 
;ars~~i:~~~~:~=~e~:~~~ driving & For more information call 277-4242 i 
;.....................................................................................................................................................i 
I , I 
• • Hunter 
In this day of the egocentric jock who has trouble placing a football hc:lmet on his intlated hc:ad. it is truly refreshing to rc:alizc that thc:re arc: still some Tony Hunters out there. lie: is a man who has both fec:t pit anted tlrmly on the ground. He un­derstands his capahilitics and limita­tions; he recognizt·s where he's come from and c:xactly where he's headed. But lest anyone: be led to hdic:ve that Hunter walks around with a halo of spiritual pc:rfection following him wherever he goc:s, let the: man sc:t the record straight him­self. 
"I know there arc going to be times whc:n I won't do things that I should do as a Christian," he says sombc:rly. "But I know that I can al­ways come back to my faith and that the: Lord will always forgive me for it." 
When it comc:s to living the life of the "perfect" Christian, Hunter may be: just as lacking as the rest ofus. But when it comes to attaining perfec­tion on the football field, no one comes closer than number 85. All it takes is a little faith. 
• Tennis 
I've sec:n improvement with each match. 
And the Irish will get a chance against Northwestern to see just how good they are as a team. 

RIIGHBOBHOOD BOOTS 
October 8, 1981 4:00-8:00 pm 
'four Soun lend's ethnic neighborhoods and enjoy a $'1.00 Hungarian meal all for only $8.00. 
'ficketl on sale 'fhunday and friday in ne Dining Ralls. 
Sponsored 'lly: •DISMC Shdent Government. Urban Studies, Student a Activities, Center for lxperiential Learning and the Departments of lconoaics, Government, Sociology, 
Architecture and American Studies. 

... 
* 
$1.00 OFFT ! All Rolling Stones :
and Santana albums ; and tapes now at both ...
River City Records : 
: : 
Li~~~:~~~~e:no;J~~ ! 
R" C"t R d !
lVer 1 y ecor s * 
50970 U.S. 31 North ! 
Dive! 
•
• B •
• uy -· : Observer : : Classifieds : 
··············­
Friday, October 2, 1981 -page 17 

The Notre Dame U'omen 's volleyball team takes to the court tonight in the ACC pit, facing arch-rival Saint Mary's at 7p.m. See story on back page. (photo by Cheryl Ertelt) 

KICK OFF 

''TAIL GATE SPECIALS'' 
good for all home games Fri. & Sat. 
24 PIECES OF CHICKEN 2 large slaw 2 homemade BBQ beans
$15.99 
~..._.~~ 

1 dozen rolls 
16 PIECES OF CHICKEN 
1 large slaw !~~~ 1 large BBQ beans 6 rolls 
36 PIECES CHICKEN for $18.00 50 PIECES CHICKEN for $25.00 20 PIECES CHICKEN for$1 0.00 
Bulk Chicken prices good for all home games 
Friday & Saturday 
1636 Ironwood 277-0397 


,---------------------------,
1 1
1 1
1 I 
1 1 
1 FREEl 2-piece dinner "ith every 3-plece you buy. 1 
I ~~~:'!~~~~:~~•nn~a~au~::~:l~~=~:v••· I 
I Dame home games. Limit one pe• cua-I
I tomer. Good only at 1636 N.lron""..,od. I 
1 I
l---------------------------J 
___._...__g:.,o_o_d_w_,_·t_h_.c_o_u_p_o_n_o_n_I.Y._______ 

1-,~ --­
~-~­
..... 
by The Oh.rfr!'er and The Assuaated Pnrr An interhall cross country meet is scheduled 
for Monday, October 5, on the Burke Memorial GolfCourse. Contes­tants are to report to the second tee. For more information, call the NV A office at 6100 -The Observer 
On the heels oftheir 6-0 victory over DePaul on Wed­nesday, the Notre Dame soccer team continues its current five-game homestand this weekend. This afternoon, Rich Hunter's squad hosts Michigan State on Cartier Field at 4 p.m. On Sunday, the University of Chicago pays a visit to Cartier in a 2 p.m. contest. The Irish are still unbeaten, boasting a 7-0-2 record as they enter into action this weekend. -The Observer 
The ND-SMC rivalrycarries over onto the volleyball court tonight, as the two women's teams square off in the ACC pit beginning at 7 p.m. -The Observer 
The N.D. Invitational cross-country meet will be held today starting at 2 p.m. across the Burke Memorial GolfCourse. Following up on their second place finish in last weekend's National Catholic Invitational, the Irish will be participating in the meet, along with defending champion Michigan and other major univer­sities. Coach joe Piane expects over 50 schools to compete in the meet. -The Observer 


I 
I I 
COUPON 
COUPON 
* 

I 
I I buy one big mac! I I I get one free 
I 
I I expires Oct. 31, 1981 
Offer good only at McDonald's ® 1519 K. Ironwood Dr. South Bend, In. 
You deserve a break today.™1I 

I I 
I I
1 Limit 1 coupon per customer per visit I
1 I
Cash redemption value 1120 of a cent. 

~-------------------------~ 
Coach Larry Gallo leads his Notre Dame baseball team into action this weekend after a long layoff. The Irish play host to Valparaiso tomorrow at 9 a.m. onjake Kline Field, and then square off against Xavier in a doubleheader on Sunday at 1 p.m., also on Kline Field. Notre Dame, with a record in the fall campaign of 6-2, has not played in over two weeks after being rained out ofits games in last weekend's Bradley Invitational Tournamment. -The Ob­
server 

The gymnastiCS ClUb of ND/SMC will hold an ex­hibition on the South Quad by the flagpole tomorrow morning before the football game from 10:30 to 12:00. During that time, the team will be selling blue carnations. -The Observer 
The Notre Dame chapter of the Fellowship of Christian Athletes is sponsoring an evening with Irish baseball coach Larry Gallo on Wednesday, October 7, at 8:30p.m. in the Badin Hall chapel. FCA promotes Christian fellowship among athletes and coaches in hopes that this will be shared with the larger community. All interested are invited to attend. -The Observer 
The Notre Damegolfteam will host the NO Fall Invita, tiona! Golf Tournament on Monday afternoon on the Burke Memorial Golf Course. Coach Noel O'Sullivan's Irish will be looking to rebound from their disappointing showing in the recent Indiana State Championships. -The Observer 
Pennant races 
Cards, Expos W"in 
(Compiled from Associated Press sources) 
It just may have been the longest three hours in the history of the St. Louis Cardinals. 
The Redbirds, in the midst of a battle for the second-halfchampion­ship in the National League East with Montreal, faced first-half champion Philadelphia last night in what they hoped would be a divisional playoff preview. It was playoff-type baseball, too, and the score was tied 2-2, going into extra innings. 
And then it rained. And rained. And rained some more. 
Meanwhile, while waiting in the clubhouse during the delay, the Cards found out that first-place Montreal had. won again, 5-2, in Pittsburgh. A loss last night would have been devastating for St. Louis' playoff hopes, placing them a game­and-a-halfbehind the Expos with 0'!:_ 
I I 


I I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 

ly three games left for both teams. 
But the Cards stayed calm. After 
the three-hour rain delay-torture 
ended, St. Louis t went right out and 
scored a run in the top of the tenth 
inning to beat the host Phillies, 3-2. 
Thus, as the strike-shortened pen­
nant race enters the final weekend, 
St. Louis is just a half-game behind 
Montreal. 

In the NL West, Houston took a giant step toward the second-half title yesterday, as Nolan (No-Hit) Ryan pitched a seven-hitter to lead the Astros to a 8-1 win over second­place Cincinnati. Houston now leads by a game-and-a-half. 
Meanwhile, the American League East second-half champ will be decided this weekend in Milwaukee, as the Brewers, who lead by a half­game, host second-place Detroit in a crucial three-game series. 
BASEBALL:,,,,. 
Second Hall NATIONAL LEAGUE 

East  
w  L  Pet.  GB  
Montreal  28  22  .560  
St. LOUIS  27  22  .551  .5  
y·x·Phriadelphia  23  26  .469  4.5  
y-NewYork  23  26  .469  4.5  
y-Chicago  22  26  .458  5  
y-Pittsburgh  20  31  .392  85  
West  
Houston  32  18  .640  
Cinci11nati  30  19  .612  1.5  
y-San Francisco  28  21  .571  3.5  
y-x-Los Angeles  25  25  .500  7  
y-Atlanta  23  26  .469  8.5  
y-San Diego  16  35  .314  16.5  

x-First-half division winner y-Eiiminated from Second Seasoc playoff conten­tion 
Yesterday's Results Housto" 8, Cincinnati 1 San Francisco 6, Atlanta 2 St. Louis 3, Philadelphia 2 (10 innings) Montreal 5, Pittsburgh 2 Chicago 2. New York 2. game called after 8 innings, rain San Diego 1. Los Angeles 0 
Today's Games St. Louis (LaPoint 1-0) at Pittsburgh (Perez 2-7), n Atlanta (Perry 7-9) at Cincinnati (Pastore 4-8). n Montreal (Rogers 11·8) at New Vorl< (Zachry 7-13). n Chicago (Griffin 2-5) at Philadelphia (Ruthven 11-7), 
n Houston (Sutton 11-8) at Los Angeles (Reuss 9-4). n San Diego (Welsh 6-7) at San Francisco (Hargeshei'ner 1-1), n 
AMERICAN LEAGUE East 

w L Pet. GB Mi!·vaukee 29 21 580 DetrJit 28 21 .571 .5 Boston 27 22 .551 1.5 y-Baltrmore ~6 22 .542 2 y-Cieveland 25 24 .510 3.5 y-x-New York 24 24 .500 4 y-Toronto 20 25 .444 6.5 
West z-Kansas Crty 28 21 .571 x-Oakland 25 21 .543 1.5 y·Texas 22 25 .468 5 y-Minnesota 23 27 460 5.5 y-Seattle 21 28 . 429 7 y-Chicago 21 29 .420 7.5 y-California 19 28 .404 8 
x-First-half diVISIOn winner ~·-Eliminated from Second Season playoff conten­tion z·Cii'{',hed plavoff berth 
Yesterday's Results Kansas City at Cleveland, 2. ppd. rain Bait ;nore 5, Detrort 4 (10 innrngs) Onlv yames scheduled 
Today's Games New York (Righettr 7-4) at Baltrmore (McGregor 12­5). n Boston (Eckersley 9-7) at Cleveland (Barker 8-7), n Detroit (Petry 10-8) at Milwaukee (Haas 10-7). n Minnesota (Redfern 8-8) at Chrcago (Koosman 4-12). n Oakland (McCatty 14-6) at Kansas City (Leonard 12­
11). n California (Renko 8-4) at Texas (Darwrn 9-9), n Toronto (Berenguer 2-12) at Sea«<e (Clay 1-7), n 

NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE NATIONAL CONFERENCE 

East  
w  L  Pet.  PF  PA  
Dallas  4  0 1.,000  109  58  
Philadelphia  4  0 1.000  93  40  
N.Y. Giants  2  2  .500  57  53  
St. Louis  1  3  .250  74  100  
Washington  0  4  .000  60  119  
Central  
Detrort  2  2  .500  87  71  
Minnesota  2  2  .500  79  94  
Tampa Bay  2  2  .500  68  70  
Chicago  3  .250  61  85  
Green Bay  3  .250  69  105  
West  
Atlanta  3  1  .750  10~  62  
San Francisco  2  2  .500  73  89  
Los Angeles  2  2  .500  96  80  
New Orleans  3  .250  44  85  
AMERICAN CONFERENCE  
East  
w  L  Pet.  PF  PA  
Miamt  4  0 1.000  97  55  
Buffalo  2  2  .500  104  50  
N.Y Jets  3  .250  73  117  
Baltrmore  1  3  .250  70  122  
New England  0  4  .000  73  104  
Central  
Cinc1nnah  3  1  .750  102  95  
Pittsburgh  2  2  .500  108  98  
Cleveland  2  2  .500  65  87  
Houston  2  2  .500  63  72  
West  
San Diego  3  .750  138  110  
Kansas City  3  .750  107  99  
Denver  3  1  .750  89  54  
Oakland  2  2  .500  63  45  
Seattle  1  3  .250  58  77  
Sunday's Games  
Baltimore at Buffalo  
Detroit at Tampa Bay  
Green Bay at N.Y. Giants  
Kansas City at New England  
N.Y. Jets at Miami  
San Francisco at Washrngton  
Chicago at Minnesota  
Cincinnati atHouston  
Dallas at St. Louis  
Pittsburgh at New Orleans  
Cleveland at Los Angeles  
Denver at Oakland  
Seattle at San Drego  
Monday's Game  
Atlanta at Philadelphia  

~-­
------------, 

The Observer 
Friday, October 2, 1981 -page 19
Weekend 

Molarity Michael Molinelli 
Campus 
/1-IINJ) /TS 41')£AT THE' WAY 
11-/0~ G.llf5 AFiE IN 

Friday, October 2 
fACI/ 5ECJ1DN AT 711£ RXJTBALL 8A771R66£S ,, ,THO~£ !£NIO~S 
OB~A OC.CNARt-1DL 

6,AH£5 HAS tr5 OLJIJ JPBJrrrY }')~£P''~!LENT"CHE:£RJ/'Jb, 
•12 noon -lecture, "rights of rdugees", mike
FOOHS?AHP ELBA 

IJ.IAT 5£CT701J OF"PKESH"#EN !ti.JP 71-IAI GRCVP OV£R 
posner and diana morris. room I I 5, law school,
DDKI£ P/ING,AJ,J()Hp
77-IF:Rt: l<fEPS ON 11\IDI~E'>'\/t.Y.I

!i£EPS f5E.NPJN{'f PEOPLE UP 
sponsored by white center for the study oflaw and
Vt=R PC L of<F: 
public policies. 

•12:30 
p.m. -film, "seeds of liberty", Iafortune little theatre. 

•2 
p.m. -cross country meet, nd invitational, nd golfcourse. 

•3:30 
p.m. -philosophy dept. colloquium, "pure and applied reason", professor kenneth m. sayre, nd, commentator neil delaney, memorial library lounge. 

•4 
p.m. -soccer game, nd vs. michigan state, alumni field. 

•4:30 
p.m.-field hockey game, nd vs. indiana uni­versity, alumni field.


Doonesbury 
Garry Trudeau 
PJCLL.WSTT?&er; /$Jl/ST 
50/?1{'(, fi.IA5HtN6f(JI, /IJt'P.& mr 

•7 p.m. -volleyball game, nd vs. saint mary's col­
CAN'T fiG(J?& 'tW{)JT/ liE/?& 
81JYIN6 THifT. IA/t f?ESroN() TO 'f(lJ IIAV/3 7Ht MJ5TSYMPA­
lege, ace.
fCtNJf-1/C P£.4/JT/&5, NOT 7HCT1C AllMINI5ll?AT!ON IN 
roL!TIC'AL-NEEP5. IF THe 7WO 

•7,9,11, p.m. -film, "superman", engineering
~AN/) 'rWfl£ /(/U/N{j 
OVlFPL.AP, ef?EAT. IF TileY 

auditorium, sponsored by knights ofcolumbus, S 1, 
/ US! 
lm7; }()/}'!?& /OfV'((J(Jt<. 
members free. 
0«/N. 

•s
p.m. -concert, the commodores, ace, S11 and Sl2. 

•s 
p.m. -performance, "getting out", nd/smc theatre, o'laughlin auditorium, students, faculty, staff, senior citizens: S2. 50. gen. adm.: S3. 

•9-1 
p.m. -"the mark davis show", nazz. Saturday, October 3 

•9 
a.m. -baseball game, nd vs. valparaiso, jake kline field. 



•I 0 a.m.-I2:30 p.m -snite museum, special muset:m hours for home football saturdays. 
•II a.m.-I p.m. -alumni hospitality center, north dome ace, sponsored by alumni assoc., tllms, in­formation, refreshments; glee club will sing at 
noon_ 

•I 
:30 p.m. -football game, nd vs michigan state, home. 

•7 
p.m. -film, "the choice of love", memorial library ac.Jdltorium, sponsored by international stu­dent affairs. 

•s 
p.m. -performance, "getting out", nd/smc theatre, o'laughlin auditorium, smc. 

•9:30-1 
0:30p.m. -sarah wachter and carol cahal­lan, performance, nazz. 

•1
0:30-? p.m. -open stage, nazz, all welcome. Sunday, October 4 


ACROSS 29 David's 49 Actress 25 Watch 1 Showing religious Verdugo sound 
•t p.m. -baseball game, nd vs. xavier, jake kline 
some temper consultant 51 Nautical 26 NewYork 6 -Alto 34 Woodwind command jail 
field. 10 Lamp part 35 Talent 54 Cilium 27 Island 
•2 p.m. -soccer game, nd vs. univ. of chicago, 
14 Hewroteof 36 Beverage 58 Sweet fare magic
The Daily Crossword 
alumni field. Roaring 37 Sea, to a 62 Relieve 28 Film's 
•2 p.m. -mass, st. francis day liturgy, st. mary's
Camp Parisian 63 High spot Alexander 
collegr clubhouse, marking the SOOth birthday of
15 That 38 Baked 64 Real crazy 30 Sheepish 
st. francis. 

16-de Pinos Southern 65 Arrangement comments 17 Church fare 66 Shipshape 31 Muslim 
•7 p.m. -lottery, homecoming package, stepan instrument 40 Hide of a 67 Gowide judge 
cer. ::r. 18 Hearty fare young 68 Inflict 32 Dress shape 
•7:30 p.m. -lecture. "democratic socialism: a 20 Money for animal wear 33 Beat back 
postitve response to the present crisis, penny
the hands 41 "-Girl" 35 Actor 
schantz, nat. org. of the democratic socialist org.
22 Hollywood 42 Songs DOWN Dullea vamp 43-qua non Mutton 38 Nuns' wear 
committee, room 400 of memorial library. discus­23 ManyGI's 44 Hickory portion 39 Verbal 
sion on the organization of a dsoc chapter on 25 Pod or tree 2-avis 43 Not so 
campus. lateral 46 Caraway 3 Overdone sizable 26 Stein's liqueur shindig 45 Piston friend 48 Be sick 4 Say "Boo!" protector 5 Lady of 46 West or 
Television 
Spain Largo 6 Casals 47 Disquiet 7 Enzyme 50 Pungent 
Tonight
suffix herbs 8 Fib 51 "-for Ail 
8 p.m. 16 Friday Night at the Movies
9 Switch word Seasons" 
10 Hip 52-squad 22 The Dukes of Hazzard 11 Understand­
53 Madame 28 The Manions ofAmerica Part :'1 
ingwords Gluck 34 Enterprise 12 Attired 55 Singer 46 Lester Sumrall Teaching, "!low to 13 New Zealand 56 Ibn-cope with anger" 
parrot 57 Slangy 8:30p.m. 34 Ben Wattenberg at Large 19 Ship's deception 46 The Renewed Mind planking 59 Emoter 9 p:m. 22 Dallas 21 -Angeles 60 "-blue?" 34 Firing Line 24 Breakfast 61 Aegean 
46 Today with Lester Sumrall 
fare island 



Toast to the Irish! at Senior Bar 
IPrnlEoUJimiF rn~JLJL~ 
AJ.r~IIBROO~ 
GltllLJIWlll&~ltGR II 
today 4:30-7:00 
open Sat. morning before the game for hamburgers, Brats, 
.... 
special: 12 oz cokes for l!id in the club ! ! ! 

~~~IT' .
• 

.................................................................................................. 

Friday, October 2, i 'J81 -page 20 
Hunter converts on, off field 1 
By MIKE MONK The choice was, to say the least, holicism. Sports Writer anti-climactic. Hunter has been "I've been thinking about recognized by his coaches and the converting ever since I was a fresh­
It is a rare occasion when that press as the best athlete under the man in high school," he confides. elusive concept of the "perfect" Golden Dome; and claiming that he "I've been debating whether to do it football player is truly realized. In is perhaps the most talented athlete and I kept putting it offand putting it the past, such legends as Frank Gif­playing collegiate football today off. Finally, l just decided to do it ford and George Connor have dis­would not constitute an t.xaggera­while I was up here at summer played their incomparable talents tion ofany kind. school. I feel it was the most impor­on playing fields of old, but those The abilities of such a skilled tant decision in my life and I feel days are long gone.• craftsman should be utilized to their really good about it." 
The contemporary version of the utmost potential. Often times, Many people who have learned of game relies heavily on platooning though, players become unhappy Tony's conversion are often misled and "specialty" players, having when forced to move from their nor­into thinking that he suddenly, mys­phased out the "all-around" athlete mal position to a new one. But in the teriously "got" religion. But those who played both offense and case of Hunter, no such evidence close to him know that Hunter's defense. supports this theory. deep faith in God has always been an 
But now it appears that a distant "I really like the position and feel integral part of his life, and his con­
relative of this forsaken player has very comfortable at it," explains version has acted to solidify that been successfully resurrected and is Hunter. "I like the many things it re­faith. alive and well at Notre Dame. The quires me to do and I really enjoy "I have a better personal relation­position is wingback, and under Ger­being involved in the game the way I ship with God now than I did ry Faust's complex multiple offense am. There's no way I would ever before," confesses Hunter. "When 
the wingback does everything from want to go ba<,:k to split-end after times get hard, I can turn to Him and receiving, running and passing to playing wingback." see the good of those hard times. I leading the marching band out on to The transition to wingback is only didn't do that very well before." 
the field at half-time. on~ of several changes and events There were several reasons why Naturally, such a demanding posi­which have occurred in Hunter's life he decided to convert, he says, but tion would require the talents of the the past several months. Over the none more important than the fact 
Notre Dame wingback Tony Hunter (85), seen here in action most versatile of athletes. Faust did summer Tony joined six other col­that he possessed a great desire to against Purdue last week, has not on~y found a new position, but not have to look very hard befort' lege football players, most notably better himself as a person and as a also a new religion. Over the summer, Hunter converted to Cat­selecting former split-end and Moel­Art Schlichter of Ohio State, in a · Christian. · holicism. SeeMikeMonk'sstoryatright. (photo byRachelBlount). ler alumnus Tony Hunter for that dif­nationwidt: college football media "I feel that the different religions 
ficult job. tour sponsored by ABC Television really don't make a difference," Hun­and the NCAA. The group traveled ter says. "I feel that becoming the to the "seven major football cities," best Christian you can possibly
Field hockey 
giving massive press conferences in become, that's the difference. And I each one, the purpose being to feel being in this Catholic environ­promote college football. Although ment here at Notre Dame could help the tour lasted only ten days, it me become the best Christian that I brought about lasting memories for could become. And I thought Icould By CHUCK GREENE co-captain Giana Marrone. Marrone with junior Deborah Raehl, who Hunter. become a better Christian by being a 
"It was a great time," he exclaims. Catholic." 
Irish surprise all but coach 
Sports Writer leads the squad with two assists and never played field hockey before she "We traveled all over the country Although his internal debate
has contribUted to the team's excel­came to Notre Dame. and met a lot of interesting whether to convert covered a span
Second-year field hockey coach lent front line. Galen is pleased with the fresh­people ...Roone Arledge. Keithlat­of six years, Hunter has had a deep
Jan Gakn has developed an excel­Galen says of Marrone, "She has men she has, but is most impressed lent squad this season, having son. It was a great experience." faith in God for as long as he remem­
displayed fine footwork and really with Mary Urn, Katherine Wagner opened with a 7-4 record in its first needs no coaching. She works so and Michele Rooney. "Urn is While attending summer school bers. Tony attributes this to his mot­
three weeks ofplay. hard, she even came to me at the end showing a lot of promise," Galen at Notre Dame last summer, Hunter her, who always seemed to come up was befallen with an entirely dif­with the silver lining for every gray
Galen returned eight starters from of last season and wanted her stick says, "Wagner is an excellent player, 
last year's squad, and added to that back to practice with in the off­and Rooney is as well, with two sis­ferent experience. It was during this cloud. group five on-campus recruits, three season." ters playing here before her." 
time, after years ofdeliberation, that See HUNTER, page 17transfers, five freshmen, and one girl Other outstanding players in­With ten more matches, including he decided to convert to Cat-who had been abroad last year in clude Jeanne Grasso, the team's one tomorrow against Indiana at 1 1 
Paris. "We have a young group with Most Valuable Player last year. Galen a.m. on Cartier Field, Galen seems promising depth," says Galen, "and says that Grasso's skills continue to confident that her team will do well. should produce a strong team. We improve and "she gives the whole Since there are only three Division 11 
Irish UJotnenstennis 
learned a lot in camp, including a team a sense of confidence when field hockey teams in Indiana, the new system, and improved there as she's back there on defense." Irish already have an automatic well. We have a fine front line, and Junior Kathy Ray also continues to berth into the regional tournament. 
close to unbeatable 
an excellent defense." get better, according to Galen. Ray If they are successful there, they 
Opening the season with such a leads the team in scoring and says of will advance to the national finals By DAVE IRWIN showed ourselves we have a team flurry of victories did not surprise the :;cason so far, ''I'm really excited the weekend ofNovember 22. Galen · Sports Writer with great potential and ability. Our Coach Galen, but the margin of vic­by all this. It's our best start ever in feels an October 18 match at match with Northwestern should tory in the early matches did. "I my three years here and it's just Colgate will provide a good guage o t f Notre Dame's women's tennis prove to be very competitive. It will knew we had improved from last great. We also have the most skill how successful the team will be on team has been showing all season indicate to us just how good we real­season," she comments, "but until ever and the most enthusiasm. the national level, since Colgate was long that's it's darn close to un­ly are." 
we beat Kalamazoo 9-0, I had no idea "On top ofthis season's success so second in the nation last season in beatable, winning 12 straight and Competing in the Irish Invitation­how substantial our improvements far," Ray continues, "we have no Division II. possessing a 9-0 record this fall, but al will be defending champion were, since we only beat them 1-0 seniors on the squad so next season "I think we'll do real well," Galen the hard part is yet to come. Western Michigan, along with last year." · looks even better." Other strong comments. "We have a much im­The Irish host Big Ten power­Central Michigan, Eastern Michigan,
This team abounds with outstand­
players include sophomores Clare proved team from last year and a house Northwestern (they might Marquette ("Marquette is a gooding individual players, such as junior 
Henry and Karen Korowicki, along tremendous amount of talent." not be able to play football, but in Division Il team," says Petro.), Ferris women's tennis they finished State and Saint Mary's. second in the Big Ten last year to In­The IAIAW Tournament, in which diana, which is currently ranked the Irish are defending champwns, 1Oth in the country) before heading will be held Oct. 9-10 in In­
Bear.··No more Mr. Nice Guy 
into the Fourth Annual Irish Invita­dianapolis. The squad ends its tional beginning Sunday at 9 a.m. season with its annual dual match
TUSCALOOSA, Ala. ( AP) -As he Thomas Boyd for a game when he Whether the Bear will resort to "The toughest part ofthe season is with Saint Mary's Oct 13.
closed in on the all-time coaching missed a curfew and stayed out all being the tough, drill sergeant coming up," Head Coach Sharon The style of the Invitational willrecord of Amos Alonzo Stagg, the .night. taskmaster of yesteryear remains to Petro says. "The Invitational is to get vary from the dual match format. In­
Grand Old Man of college footbll, One of Bryant's closest associates, be seen. · 
Bear Bryant had inadvertently who didn't want to be identified, "I just haven't been being myself, us ready for the IAIAW tournment. stead of the usual six singles and We'll get a lot of tennis in two days, three doubles contests, the tourney
become a grandfatherly type him­says the Bear has changed his whole but I'm going back to whatever l which is what you have to do in will feature four singles and two
self coaching style as he nears Stagg's think it takes," he said. "I'm going to state." doubles matches -meaning eight
That became a thing of the past mark of 314 victories. Bryant has demand a little more, not just sit During the past week the Irish different players will be in action at
Thursday. No more Mr. Nice Guy, 309 going into Saturday's game with back and hope to get it. It's no big Bryant said. Mississippi. change. I'm just goingback to being defeated Taylor (9-0), Ball State (6-the same time. This will require 3), Indiana State ( 7-2) and Val­some strategy on Coach Petro's part.
-What got Bryant's dander up, "He's been walking on eggshells myself. I'm not going to worry about paraiso (9-0). Ball State, Indiana Freshman Lisa LaFratta ( 6-2 on the
besides sluggish performances because of all the media attention," the media, or the TV guy, or the next guy. State and Wheaton, a. 5-4 loser to season) will play in her usual No. 1
against Kentucky and Vanderbilt in said Bryant's associate. "Ten years Notre Dame on Sept. 17, have been position and junior Linda Hoyer ( 6­
the wake of a shocking upset at the ago, when players gave him these "I don't know what I mean. Well, I the only teams to score against the 2) will be at No.2. Senior Carol
hands ofGeorgia Tech, was a story in kinds of problems, he would have know what I mean; I just don't know Irish thus far. Shukis ( 8-1 ) will move from No. 4 to
Wednesday's Atlanta Constitution run them off If he runs them off how to say it. I'm gonna do what I ''I'm pleased with the way the girls No. 3 and freshman Lisa Gleason ( 5­
that Alabama has been beset 1w ra­now, or scrimmages them too hard, think ought to be done. That worked performed during the last week," 0) moves from the No. 6 slot to No.
cial and morale problems. It is no everyone will think he's doing it be­pretty well when I was doing it. I 
comments. 4. Senior Tina Stephan and sopho­
secret that Bryant has had to dis­cause he's so anxious to break don't think I can go on with the Petro "With our vic­tories over Ball State and Indiana
cipline several players this season, Stagg's record. I don't think that real­grandfather image any more -win, See TENNIS, page 17State, two Division I opponents, wesuspending All-American linebacker ly matters to him." lose or draw." 

