~-----~-
Ihe Obsenre 
VOL. XVI NO. n SATIJRD.AY, SEPTEMBER 12, 1981 

Notre Dame vs. South : a modem Civil War 
EDITOR'S NOTE: The author ofthe following bas been on both sides oftbefence. Afteran IIlustrous career on tbe Notre Dame sports media scene, Tim "Bone" Bourret wa"s namedAssociate Sports Information Directorat Clemson University in South Carolina. His two-sided involvement in the rir•ulry between Notre Dame and schools of the Southeastern andAtlantic Coast Conferences (plus a handful of independents) makes him more than qualified to author this article on the hatred, or let's say intense rivalry between Notre 
Dame and the South. 
By TIM BOURRET 
SpeclaiiO The Observer 
For reasons more sociological than personal, Notre Dame is not particularly popular with college football fans of the otherwise hospitable South. There has never been a warm reception for the Blue and Gold (or light Blue, or green or whatever shade they are wearing) In the South for reasons of religion, past wars or jealousy, especially in contemporary times. 
Any individual raised in the North who migrates to the South for employment or some other reason, will document the feeling among southerners that they an: still fighting the Civil War-"The War of Northern Aggression" as some call it. In athletics the natural rivalry caused by physical competition makes the blood to run thicker, and when Notre Dame is involved it turns to cement. When you come to the South from the North, you are a Damn Yankee. But, when you move to the South from the Golden Dome. you'rt· twkc as bad -you're a Notre Dame Yankee. 
It aU started in the I H60's wht·n a team led 
by Coach Grant pulled the naked reverse against Coach Lee's squad to score a late toul·hdown In the original North-South game. Since then, the South has been trying to get revenge, even though the North doesn't realize it. The feeling has carried over into the grand game ofcollege football, especially when Notre Dame is involved. 
The rivalry serves to motivate the southern squads because they look forward to beating Notre Dame, more than Notre Dame looks forward to beating them. "We have rivalries in our conference that date back to the turn of the century, but that game against Notre Dame in 1977 was second to none in importance to us," says AI Adams, former assistant sports information director at Clemson. "Coach (Frank) Howard scheduled that game in the late-'60s, and we had a special news conference in 1968 just to announce it, even thought it would not be played for about 10 years." 
On the field, the motivation instilled in players can be frightening, and, in the case of the 1977 Mississippi-Notre Dame game, disastrous. "During the whole game the guy opposite me was like a man possessed," said Ken MacAfee in a postgame interview. "He called me all sorts ofnames, it was like fighting in the Civil War." 
Former Clemson cheerleaderJoey Erwin summarized the rivalry motivation on a religious plateau. "When Notre Dame came to the Valley (Clemson) It was the Northern Catholics against the Southern Baptists. They (Notre Dame) didn't hear any Hail Marys in the stands at Clemson." 
Present Clemson coach Danny Ford put the meaning of the game with Notre Dame in perspective whcn he said prior to his tcam's 
See SOUTH, page 11 
•.eiit:• P...·l5-• ye::p••ii• !Yf& oil,... *l.t f • "'!Y'' ~~I !"' 4 S4•tlli,( ·' ·. ., 

Emotions run high as Irish await Tigers j 
By KELLY SULLIVAN 
Sports Writer 

For the fans, it's the anticipation ofan 
explosive afternoon ofcollege football. 
For the players, it's thc anticipation after 
months and months ofprepartation. 
And for Coach Gerry Faust, it's the 
anticipation ofa lifetime dream come true. 
"I know it'll be a real emotional moment for 
mc the first time we go through that tunnel 
and hit thc field," exclaims Faust. "That's 
somcthing I've thought about a great deal 
sincc coming to Notre Dame." 
The I :30 p.m. kickoff against the Louisiana State Tigers figures to bc onc of the most enthusiatic season openers the Irish ever have had. Yet Faust doesn't want the emotion surrounding his Notre Dame debut to run completely wild. "The players can sense when you're relaxed, so I'll try and control myself," he explains. "A team can be too psyched. Then they get tight, and they don't perform the way you want. So we're trying to keep a low-keyed approach for this game." 
On the other hand, Faust must guard against a case ofoverconfidence developing in the Irish camp in view ofLSU's loss to Alabama last wcekend. 
"This game is our most important, because it's the first. We're not looking past It, and we're not counting LSU out. I was impressed by the way they came back in the second half against Alabama -they came out and played excellent football, and probably won thc second halfstatistically." 
Tiger Coach jerry Stovall was equally pleased with his team's performance after halftime. "I'm proud ofthe fact that the team continued to play with emotion evcn though we wcre so far behind," he relates. "Our big problem came defensively -we didn't defense the option olfthe wishbone well." 
Stovall doesn't feel that facing Notre Dame's full house offense will present any new challcngcs to his squad. "We've played a lot of teams that use misdirection and different formations." 
The second year coach fields one of the youngest football teams LSlJ ever has had. Stovall sent I I rookies in against the Tide last Saturday. "We expect to play just as many freshmen against Notre Dame so we'll have expericncc whcn we get into conference play." 
While Faust doesn't intend on starting that many new faces, he's starting a new era in the Irish offense. "Our multiple system Is coming along real well," he says. "It's going to take more than just a few gamcs ora few months to pcrfect, though. You've got to bring players up through a new system. It'll take a few seasons to perfect it, but I'm very pleased with the progress." 
LSU's speed concerns Faust a bit, but the way to counteract it, he SJ~ys, is to "play heads­up football and not make mistakes." What bothers the Irish mentor most is the unknown. 
"I've been with the team nine months, but 1 really can't cvaluate them yet because I've never seen them go up against college opposition. My players may be world-beaters compared to other schools, but I won't know until! sec ifthey can run and throw and tackle as well as the LSU players can." 
That moment can't come soon enough for Gerry Faust and his first Notre Dame football squad. "The kids want to sec another jersey besides their teammate's acro:.s that line. They're itching to get out and perform." 
,119 ...'"fA:: ·:. 
--~-­

.......-----·--...-....-----·-----~---~---~---~--~----------., 

Saturday, September 12, 1981 -Page 2 
New look 
Cheerleaders shift focus 
By CHUCK GREENE The cheerleaders have two seasons, in 
Sports Writer 
effect, cheeringfor the football and basketball 
seasons. They cheer at all home football 
Alumni, pep rallies, fightsongs -football games and will travel to as many away weekends return, along with the I98I Notre contests as possible. Also, they'll cheer at all Dame cheerleaders. New Head Coach Gerry home basketball games, and likely some road 
Faust leads the players on the field as the 
games. squad finalizes its routines to rally the 
The time commitment ofthe cheerleaders students in the stands. 
is a great one. They practice six days a week, Co-captain Shelly Obermiller is very 
two hours a session. Obermillersays it's toughexcited about this year's squad, as she and 
on the squad, but they are doingpretty well so Clark Gibson lead I 0 others, including seven 
far. "Most ofthem are still so excited about the new members, into the l.SU game. The 
beginning ofthe season that it has not yet enthusiasm of the new people seems to be 
become dull for them -and it may never." endless according to Obermiller, who says, 
She adds that the greatest thing about being"They have so much spirit -and a lot of 
a cheerleader is the people you meet, and talent. We'll be trying new things, and this being able to represent the university. "It's should be a great squad." been the best experience I've ever had. I feel 
This year's squad will be much different lucky that I got the chance to cheer here, 
from last year's, just as the football team will especially in Coach Faust's first year. The show more versatility. Custom-tailored royal games are wonderful, with the electricity you blue uniforms provide a new look this year, feel when you walk into the stadium. But I 
complimenting the team's jerseys. Also, this think the pep rallies are the best. For 30 or 40 year's squad has chosen cheerleading as their minutes we have the undivided attention of main goal. 3,000 to 4,000 people. The spirit there is "They're working on the direction oftheir unbelievable -typical Notre Dame spirit." cheerleading." says the team's advisor and 
The squad enters its frrst regular seasonDirector ofStudent Activitiesjames 

game today. The season will be marked
McDonnell. "They want to stay away from byenthusiasm and desire to excel. Obermillerglamorized stunts and routines that focus says this desire will make this cheerleadingmore on them than on crowd enthusiasm. 
squad agreat one. "We want to be really great. 
This group focuses crowd attention and gets We want people to know we're from Notrethem involved, using creative routines that Dame. Most importantly, we want theincorporate the crowd into what they're students to be proud of their squad."
doing." 
Recalls Moeller 

Faustpupil awaits reunion 
By ROD BLACKMON LSU ReveiUe Sports Editor 
BATON ROUGE, La.-Eric Ellington 
arrived in Baton Rouge a year ago and 
immediately stepped onto a rollercoaster. 
The highly-touted running back out of 
Cincinnati's Moeller High School was billed as 
one ofLSU's game-breakers. But that's not 
how it turned out. Instead, according to the 
scheme ofthe Tigers' veer offense, Ellington 
usually took a straight handoffand found 
himself at the bottom ofa big pile in the 
middle ofthe field. 
He never really got a chance to show his 
stuff. He fumbled a kickoff, which removed 
him from that role. He took a pitchout and 
scampered I 5 yards, only to take a hit, lose the 
ball and find himselfon the end ofthe bench 
again. 
It was a year offreshman frustration. 
The Tiger staffdecided to stick with the veer this year, so it looked for another place where Ellington's talents could be advantageous. Flanker was suggested, and flanker it was. 
Ellington began spring workouts as the No. 4 flanker. Yet last week, when l..SU opened against Alabama, the 5·9 sparkplug was in the starting lineup. 
It looked as though the rollercoaster ride was over, that Ellington had settled into a position that he both liked and was impressive in performing. Not so. 
Monday in practice, Ellington strained a hamstring muscle and was dropped from the Tiger depth chart. And this was the week he was supposed to play against his former coach and close advisor, Gerry Faust. 
CoachJerry Stovall says Ellington will play, 
but it won't be known how effective he will be 
until kickoff. 
The loss ofEllington's darting running and catching could hurt l..SU's chances considerably. Against Alabama, Ellington was one ofonly a few players to show any speed and quickness. 
How ironic it would be for Ellington to be influential in an l..SU victory. 
"When I was in high school, we (he and Faust) used to talk a lot -we were pretty close," says Ellington. "He always told me if there was anywhere he'd go, he'd go to Notre Dame: I'm not surprised he went." 
Ellingtor,, however, visited the Notre Dame campus like so many other Moeller graduates, hut he chose to play elsewhere 
'"Notre Dame was~,) much lih.t: .\1odkr,·· he says. "The social life wasn't really what I 

wanted it to be. There's more to school than 
just going to class." 

When news ofFaust's appointment was announced, rumors flourished about Ellington transfering to play for his old coach. But Ellington stayed put, despite the frustration he sufferred last fall. 
"I never thought oftransfering to Notre Dame," Ellington says. "I didn't want to sit out a year. I made the decision to come here, and I'm happy with the decision. This year I'm a lot more confident. Things just fell into place and I don't know how it happened or why it happened. But I'm excited." 
"Last year I was really nervous. I wondered 
Bang-bang start tough on Tigers 
By DAVE IRWIN 
Sports Writer 

Michigan ... Southern Cal ... Penn State ... then the bowl game and the Cinderella season offirst-year Irish Head Coach Gerry Faust is complete with a national championship. Right? 
A lot ofpeople have visions ofit happening -and it very well may -but if the Irish football team overlooks Louisiana State, Faust's debut may turn into a disaster. 
But Faust isn't taking anything for granted. 
"l..SU has got an excellent football team. In fact, in the second halfofthe game against Alabama they really came ofage," Faust said. "I was very impressed with Malcom Scott ­their tight end -their two quaterbacks (Alan) Risher and thefreshman(Tim) Byrd~ and ofcourse I was impressed with Eric Ellington, who played for us at Moeller High School three years ago. "Their punterJames Wagner averaged 42 yards a punt," Faust continued. "Their defense is very, very good. Led by Ramsey and Dadar and they have an excellent defensive front, probably one of the quicker defensive fronts I've seen in the last couple ofyears in college football." 
The Tigers were 7-4 last year and list 30 returning lettermen, includingeight offensive . and seven defensive starters. However, l..SU did Jose its opening game on ABC·TV to Paul "Bear" Bryant and his Alabama Crismon Tide, 24-7, last Saturday. 
But Stovall saw hope in his Tigers. "We felt that ulfensivley and defensively, there were a how much playing time I was going to get instead ofwhether we were going to win or lose. But now I'm contributing more. I know what I'm doing, and I know what it takes to make a play work. It's a team effort all the way around, but everyone has to do their part." 
No doubt Faust had alot to do with seeding those values in Ellington, it just tooka yearfor them to grow. He had to reason that playing flanker in the Tigers' offense would best suit his skills. He accepted this, and he succeeded in making the move. 
"I had running back in my blood," Ellington says. "I used to love carrying the ball. I 

See ERIC, page 11 Eric Ellington 
lot ofgood things that we did. Offensively, we 
gained almost 400 yards, which we were 
impressed with," Stovall said. "Defensively we 
played well except for the big play. We'll have 
to eliminate that. We'll work very hard on it." 
Faust also believes the 'Barna game helped LSU. 
"l..SU gains something simply from having played a game against a top-quality football team. As young as their team b, that has to be a help," Faust said. "But we gain something because all our coaches and players had a chance to watch tb.atgame. We ought to have a little bit better idea what to expect." 
Despite their 30 returning lettermen, the Tigers still may be the youngest team in the college ranks this year. l..SU lists only six seniors on its entire roster, and only three ­conerbackJames Britt, spit end Orlando McDaniel and guard Tom Tully -are slated to begin tomorrow's game. And Stovall boasts just one more year's experience than the Irish mentor. 
The Tigers' freshman crop of 28 -II of whom played against 'Barna -was described by one national expert as the "best group of high school seniors to sign with LSU since the J aps were building Zeroes instead ofToyotas." 
The Tigers also have a tradition ofbeing tough on the Irish. In I970, the Irish edged l..SU, 3·0, on Scott Hempel's 24-yard field goal with 2:54 remaining. But on the return visit the next year, LSU beat Notre Dame. 28-8. 
Quarterback Alan Risher keys l..SU's veer otfense after finishing as the top percentage passer in the Southeastern Conference in I980. Risher completed 82-of-I43 passes for 97I yards and nine touchdowns plus six more rushing. 
"We expect Alan to pick up right where he 
left off," Stovall said. "He's shown us that 
improvement in practice. Now we must carry 
that over into the games." 
Jesse Myles was the leading rusher last year ( 76 carries for 403 yards in 1980) despite missing five games with a broken leg. He did not play against Alabama, but is expected to start today. Mike Montz ( 287 yards in 1980) is the fullback. Ellington, the starting flanker in the 'Barna game has been replaced by freshman MarkJohnston. 
Besides McDaniel, who is a world-class 
hurdler, and Tully, guard David Koch is the 
only incumbant on the offensive line. But 
Koch and his teammates are big as the Tigers 
average 6-4, 247.5 pounds across the front. 
Scott will be at tight end while Bob Smith and Clint Berry man the tackle positions and Mike Gambrell is the center. 
On defense, linebackers Rydell Malancon, Al Richardson and Lawrence Williams return as does tackles Ramsey Dardar and Leonard Marshall. Richardson and Williams were the top two tacklers last fall. 
Returning' in the secondary are cornerbacks Britt and Alvin Thomas. Rounding out the defensive starters will be Tim Joiner at linebacker, Greg Bowser at nose guard and Tommy Boudreaux is at free safety. Jeffery Dale replaces Alex Clark, who started the 
See LSU, page 11 

&WR!Mt w;w *¥& ·MiMi@±'W . ¥# . # •iiW91kM6 ,.. 

VOL. XVI NO. 15 an mdependent student newspaper serving notre dame and saint mary's SA11JRDAY,SEPTEMBER 12, 1981 ·page 3 
'Cnunter -revolutionaries' 
Solidarity alarm.s Polish press 
WARSAW, Polish and Soviet referendum on the issue ''on Jurczyk, in an interview with authorities leveled commun­the oner hand impressed (us) Solidarity's news service, said ism's harshest charge against with their openness and horrif'­that the "union didn't have the Solidarity yesterday, calling ied us with their utterly provoc­proper peoplee to nominate the the independent union 'count­ative character on the other. '' government'' during the period er-revolutionary.' A radical The suggestion about last March when Solidarity 
member of the union sug­running the government came threatened a gevneral strike. gested the labor federation from the leader os Soplidarity's When asked, ''would the now had people capable of chapter in Szczecin, a Baltic union be able to nominate the running Poland's government. port on the East German proper people today in case of 
Soviet warships were border. The official, Marian a strike?~' Jurczyk replied, "I 
reported deploying thousands Jurczyk, is regarded as a think so." of Soviet marines in a mock radical in the 9. 5 million-mem­Nonetheless, Solidarity landing exercise on the Soviet ber labor federation, the first adjounred its Gdansk congress coast north of Poland, and the ond free of party control in the Thursday with a call for free official Soviet news agency Soviet bloc. elections in Poland. TASS quoted a letter from a Polish worker saying Solidarity leaders have 'discarded all 
Irani~ religious leader 
camoflage and call directly for a counter-revolution.' The Warsaw chapter of the 
dies in grenade explosion 
Compmnist Party said Soli­darity 'was deveolping, in defi­ance of agreements and the BEIRUT, Lebanon (AP)-A the prayer leader and other 
worshippers. Ayatollah (As­
starutes, as a socio-political grenade carried by an assassin movement aiming at a counter­exploded in a worshipper-filled sadollah) Madan was im­
square in the Iranian city of mediately taken to a hospitalrevolutionary change of the 
political system in Poland. Tabriz yesterday, killing an but was martyred while under­
'We have found confirmation ayatollah who was a key man in going surgery. The terrorist in the sharpened attacks on the the Islamis regime and six was killed on the spot." party, the government and the worshippers, Iran's state-run Madani, a fiery orator who 
media reported was leading yesterday's Sab­
country's political-legal order' during Solidarity's just-ad­Tehran Radio said "the un­bath prayers when he was journed, six day national con­identified terrorist died in­attacked, was a top aide to gress in Gdansk, where the stantly'' in the blast and that 12 Iran's revolutionary patriarch 
worshippers were wounded. Ayatollah Ruholla Khomeiniunion was formed 13 months 
and the latest to die in a wave of
ago, the Warsaw party said. 
The Ayatollah killed was 

assassinations of clerics and
The army news.P.aper, 
Assadollah Madani. 

political leaders in the funda­
Zolnierz Wolnosci, said the 
The official Pars news agency mentalist Islamic regime.

congress manifested an "anti­reported: 
An official in the provincial

state, tough course," and that 
''An unidentified man, 
governor's office reached by

its resolution threatening to fastening a grenade around his 
telephone, told The Associated

boycott a government law on waist, approached the ayatollah Press in Beirut earlier thatworker's reforms was a "sharp pretend10g he wanted to ask a 
several J.eople were killed or
challenge to the state author­question. Suddenly the grenade 
wounde . But he had no im­
ities, including the Sejm (Parli­exploded, severely wounding mediate figures. 
ament) as the supreme authori­' tiy." 
J·

The paper said the union's warnings to impose Solidarity's 
!.

version of worker self-manage­
Archeologists fight to preserve Indian art ment and hold a national referendum on the issue "on 


the one hand impressed (us) El Paso, Texas (AP) · Forty-nin­So did travelers on the Butter­they were sacred ground to the 41 rock art sites 10 the state 
with their utterly provocative ers headed for the California field Stage, which stopped at Indians who depended on the park.
character 
gold rush scrawled their names Hueco Tanks before the Civil water and the game they at­''The El Paso Archeology Soc­The paper said the union's on rocks at Hueco Tanks, three War. tracted. iety has established that some 
warnings to impose Solidarity's But long before a white man And hundreds, maybe thous­of them have been here for 900
rugged volcanic formations sit­

version of worker self-manage­in~ in an open prarie about 30 ever saw the mountains sur­ands of years ago, those Indians years, give or take 100 years," 
ment and hold a national miles east of here. rounding what is now El Paso,• painted designs on the rocks -Cage said. "There's no written "pictographs "which played an evidence. We can only judge important role in the tribes' the Indian art here at Hueco religious life and gave them a Tanks as it relates to art in yvay to document their histor­other areas of the Southwest Ies and northern Mexico." Indians painted designs 10 crevices and caves and onSATURDAY 1D!i1i!iiiii';m:!ImiT; sheltered rock walls. 

;!]~1iiiE!IiNii FOcus ''All of this art relates to their 
religion,'' Cage said. ''Since it was an eternal 

Today, the state of Texas and religion, they wanted their art local archeology buffs are fight­to be eternal. So they would ing to preserve the paintings -seek out places where it could sometimes the only signs the be eternally preserved.'' Indians left bvehind -from the threats of time, weather, and One of th.ose places, now graffiti. called Site 30, is in a small, 
Most important among the almost inaccessible cave at one area sites is Hueco Tanks State of the highest points in the Park. The Spanish named the mountains. rocks "hueco," or hollow, be­cause fits in the rocks formed A visitor must slither through 
natUra cisterns that collected a hole in the rock to reach the 
water. The "tanks" made the cave , in which nine ornamental 
mountains a popular stop for masks are painted on a wall. 
westward-bovnd pioneers. The masks, estimated to be 600 
''There have been people at years old, are of the Kachina Hueco Tanks for 10,000 years,'' design that's best-known said ranser James Cage, who among the tribes of northern guides visitors on tours of the Arizona and New Mexico. 

Saturday, September 12, 1981-page 4
\NewsBrieb 

~==~======~============================== 
by The Obsm,er and The Associated Pre.rs 
Hit and run inciden.t 
A car traveling south on Juniper road last night narrowly missed a woman, but struck the baby stroller that she was pushing, according to Rex Rakow, of Notre Dame Security. The accident occured shortly before 8 p.m. Rakow said that the car clipped the stroller, spilling the eight-month old baby onto the road. "There were no visible scrapes or scratches on the child,'' he stated. According to an eyewitness account, the car did not stop, but was halted by a group of pedestrians leaving Notre Dame's pep rally. The mother and child were taked by ambulance to St. Joseph's Memorial Hospital. The Observer 
O'Connor confirmation hearings 
Supreme Court nominee Sandra Day O'Connor, complet­ing three days of conft.rmation hearings, declined to endorse tha idea that teen-a~ers should be denied abortions unless they have a parents permission. However, she told the Senate Judiciary Committee yesterday she believes teen­agers should voluntarily consult with their parents before having abortions. Mrs O'Connor's refusal to call for mandatory parental consent for abortions or receipt of birth controll information came during a final exchange with her principal adversary on the committee, Sen. Jeremiah Denton, R-Ala. In most cases, the Supreme Court lias ruled that states may not require doctors to obtain the consent of a t~en-ager' s parents before performing a requested abor­tton--AP 
Begin makes offer to U.S. 
Israeli Prime Minister Menachem Begin said yesterday he 
has offered the United States use of his nation's air and 
naval bases to deted the "danger to freedom" posed by the 
Soviet Union in the Middle East.Begin told reporters at a 
Blair House luncheon his proposals, which also include 
storing U.S. tanks in Israel and flying Mediterranean air 
cover for U.S. transport planes, were under discussion ·by 
Defense Secretary Caspar Weinberger and Israeli Defence 
Minister Ariel Sharon. But he said Israel would not call on American troops to fight in its wars and that he did not ·request a defense treaty with the United States. "We draw a 
line ofdistinction between defending Israel and our common 
interest in resisting Soviet expansion into the Middle East,'' 
~~ti~~-prisoners riot 
Fifteen Attica State prison inmates locked rn solitary confinement broke windows and pelted guards with excrement yesterday, but their rampage was quickly broken up by officers using tear gas, a prison spokesman said. The action occurred shortly after 375 other inmates has sat in silence through breakfast, and it came almosi: 10 years to the day after more than 1,200 prisoners took over part of the pnson in what ended as the bloodiest prison riot in this country's history. "There were 19 inmates in the special housing section ofthe facility when the trouble began,'' said Lou Ganim, a spokesman for the state prison in Albany. "It appears that about 15 inmates were involved and we think we know who the ringleader was.'' He said no inmates had been injured, but two corrections officers suffered minor injuries.--AP 
Charles, Lady Diana 

Newlyweds Prince Charlse and Princess Diana are discovering it's hard to find good servants these days. They are advertising for a cook at Highgrove, their country mansion. The plea appeared in Thursday's issue of The lAdy, a staid weekly mailny read by middle class women. It said: "resident cook-houskeeper required for the Glouster­shire residence of the Prince and Princess of Wales. Applicants should provide referrences and details of qualifications ~nd previous expe~ience. Box 656C." Dai(y Mirror colummst Peter McKay sa.td yesterday he thought It ''extraordinary'' that the heir to the throne has to advertise for servants, but Joan Grahame, editor of The Lady, disagreed. "Why should the royal family be any different from anyone else these days who is lookrng for staff,'' she said. McKay said that younger members of the royal family often have difficulty in aquiring and retaining servants. He said that Charlse' sister, Princess Anne, has had five cooks in four years. --AP 
Weather 
Mostly sunny and pleasant today and tomorrow. Fair and a 
bit cooler tonight. High today and tomorrow in the upper 70s 
to low 80s. Low tonight in the mid to upper 50s.--AP 
-' h -=:..

• NOW •• ! HAVE BLATZ DRAFT BEER 
··ANYTIME, ANYWHERE! 
• Picnics Beach • • Bar-8-Qs Tailgate • • Parties At Home • 
• 

:g1981 G. HEILEMAN BREWING CO .• INC. LA CROSSE. WISCONSIN AND OTHER CITIES 
Lake Shore Distributors 
•
• 

. r--The_Ohs.erv:er_ 
Design Edi1or: Mike Monk 

Design Assist5'1ts: 11m Neely, 
John McGrath, 
Deirdre MurPhy 
News Edi1or: 11m Ven:ellotti 

Sports il'ld supplerrent design: Mike Ortmr'l il'ld John ftll1!t:I:K 
Typists: Deirdre Murphy, Mike Monk, il'ld John Mc:.<iralh (the IT1.IItl-rredia kids) 
Rlotographer: John ftlli!t:I:K 

Guest Appea-ances: Cha'ies Foster Kane, Boss Gettys, the Alar Pizza Marl, Blue Oyster Cult, <Wid The Ghost of Ver8erkrmes Past... 
The Observer (USPS 596 920) is published Monday through Friday and on home football Saturdays. except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is published by the students of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Col­lege. Subscriptions may be purchased for $25 per year ($t 5 per semester) by wrrting The Observer, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame. Indiana 46556. 
The Observer is a member of The Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
Second class postage paid at Notre Dame. Indiana 46556. 
~@w~oo11a~rn ~oo~~ 
'pay if and only when you sell'
*Michiana BAZAAR * 
TO PLACE AN AD,Call 277-8521 
LOW RATES FOR BUSINESS DISPLAY ADS 
ril1 Oakelt 13ucket
J~ ReSTAURAKT
't·. 
~ 1212 s. 9rmcwee4. Seufk 'Baed ' ~ ~ 289-1616 
~'Family dining at reasonable prices•
. . , , 
, Steak dinners & Seafood •, ive Music. 9-12 p.m.--Tues.-Sat. appy Hour 4-6 p.m.--Mon.-Fri. ;.' 
Ironwood on the 
Editorial Board and Departm.ent Managers
==Ihe Obsener+-~~ -{ 
Editor·in·Cbi~f. ........................................)ohn McGrath SMC Executive Editor ..................... Mary Agnes Carey
. . Box Q. Notre Dame /;\' .j(•5 51• \ . \ 
Managing Editor ......................................Tom) ackman SMC News Editor ................................ Cathy Domanico
The Observer IS an mdependent newspaper puhlt-.;hed h\ rhc "\udpno-"t rht· 
Executive Neu•s Editor .............................. lvnne Dale\· Photo Editor...................................................)ohn Macor
Universtty of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Man·.·!-> College. Ir dlle-.; rt(H nt'lT'i-.;;tn h\ News Editor .....:......... ...........................Tim ·vercellotii 
reflect the policies of the administration of eirher msrirurion. The nnh.  '" rcp<~rrcd  Neu•s Editor ................... ................................Kt-Ui Flint  Business Manager ....................................Rich Coppola  
as accunitely and as objectively as possible. Editt>rial-.; represt·nr rhc\optlllllll pf a  Senior Copy Editor...  ....... Marv Fran Callahan  Controlter........................................................Joe Mulflur  
majority of the Editorial Board. Commentartes. opmions. and lerrer-.; <11T rhe \1{'\\"  Sports Editor..................  ............ Michael Ortman  Advertising Manager ......................................Mark Ellis  
of their authors. Cqlumn space is available to all memhns of rhe uJmmunt!\< and  Features Editor ................, ..................Anthony Walton  Production Manager..............................Michael Monk  
the free expression of varying opinions on campus. through lf'rrers. i-.; t\,nlouragnl.  Circulation Manager ........................Tom Maclennan  



~----------------------------~----------------------------------------· 
The Observer Saturday, September 12, 1981 -page 5 
------------------------------------------------------------------~-­
Navy captain 
POW relives Nam. experiences 
By}IM McCLURE News Staff 
Capt. Gerald L.Coffee, U.S. Navy, delivered a speech at Century Center Thursday night on his experienc_es as a prisoner of war in North Viet· nam. Coffee was a POW for seven years, between Feb. 1966 and Feb. 1973. 
The speech, entitled "Faith, the Ker to Survival and Tri­umph,' was presented by the South Bend Association for Life Underwriters. The naval aviator was shot down while on a routine recon­naissance mission over North 
GQ IRISH ! ! ! ! ! 
Are you considering becoming a Catholic? 
Are you. waiting for the right moment to become baptized? 
Perhaps the moment is now. 
For ~information, 
cqntact the Office of Campus Ministry, ext. 6536 (library) 4)92' (Badin) 
an 
campus
miniStry 
Vietnam. He was captured immediately and taken to a primitive prison camp in the heart of Hanoi. 
The ke_y to m_y 
survival was faith •.. in man, m_y countr_y, 
and m_y God.' 
Coffee stated that after being locked in solitary con­finement he realized that "the only strength I would fmd would be that which I brought 
[photo by john Macor] 
in with me--the key to my survival was simply faith; faith in myself, my fellow man, my country, and my God." 
The Captain told an audience of approximately 400 how he and his fellow prisoners ''spoke'' to each other by tapping out a simplified alpha­bet with their knuckles on the cell wall. 
Although they were pre­vented from seeing or speaking verbally to one another, the POWs were able to commun­icate using "tap" languaBe. The Americans shared vital information and prayed to­gether daily. ''Communication was so very important because it became the very symbol of our togetherness,'' Coffee said. 
This togetherness helped Coffee and his compamons endure torture, isolation, and anti-American propaganda which was played almost non­stop into each cell. 
Coffee returned to the U.S. with the first group of POWs on Februrary 12, 1973. "The A­merica to which I had returned was very different. It had changed many ways, a few for the good but I thought many ways for the bad.'' 
Coffee noticed that the very faith which sustained him and his fellow servicemen in prison was lacking in the country at that time. "America was at its 

low point.  It needed  faith  in  
itself."  
The  captain  went  on  to  

emphasize that "We need faith in our goals. We need faith in America, we need faith in God, and we need faith in our­selves'' 

Captain Coffee is currently on leave from his duties as Fleet Air Operations Officer on the staff of the Commander in Cheif Pacific Fleet. 
• • • • • :::J!
'• I RIB Shack • 
ST. RD. 23 at BITTERSWEET 277-3143 Welcomes all N.D.-SMC students, faculty, graduates, friends. SPECIALIZING IN: Hickory Smoked Ribs and Rib Tips, Broasted Chicken, Broasted Potatoes, Sandwiches, and Pizza. HOURS: Tues. thru Thurs. lla.m.-9 p.m. Fri. lla.m.-lOp.m. Sat. 4 p.m.-10 p.m. 
r• I .,• 

....... s.... 
(Arrc,.., from Martin'•.,. SL Rll 2.)1 TUt:S~ WU>. 8:..10-S:Je 1111/RS., t"RI. 8:J0.8:JO•SAT. &:..10-So.JO 
272-0112.277-1691 
• • • • • • • iCOUPONI • • • • • •. 
1 For The Total Look 1 
: C.."-~ C.~ on a Sh It'd Hair Cut, : y P ~\J Shamp~•, Blow Dry & : ~~ Conditimwr. : 
~ Reg. SIS.OO I 
: Now sI0" Complete 1 I The Knights of the Castle I I 277-1691 272-0312 I 
• • •-• •ICLIP AND SAVEl• •-• •. 

EATING l9RINKING & EJTHER PIJEASANTJ\IES 
LUNCH 
•t

Mon. ·Sat. II:OD · 4:30 GO IRIS~l DINNER N 


Mor.. ·Thurs. 5:00 -10:00 Fri. · Sat. 4:30 · 12 :00 Sun. 12:00 -10 :00 NO 
PHONE 277·6368 
ACROSS FROM UNIVERSITY PARK MALL ON GRAPE ROAD 
Douglas 

_. __________..:..___________________________... 

~------~--~ ~­

Quick trip
COPP MUSIC CENTER INC 

Haig departs for Europe, Arabia 
430 N. Main So. Bend 233-1838 

Take 31 South, turn right one block past Memorial Hospital 
eGuitars • Harmonicas eMetronomes eBanjos Accessories eLessons 
eRecordersesheet musiceRepairs 
10% off anything with this 
, , , 
ad...no 1m1t . 
' 

======Homecoming Specia~=l===== 
The Student Union & ACC present 
=WI 0 mIDIE~CDJII ill®~~:== 
IN CONCERT· 

Student Lottery is Mon., Sept 14 at 7 pm -----r"-~~ in the LaFortune Ballroom ~~~~ 
also on sale at ACC Box Office ticket prices are $9.50 and 510.00 
FREE PARKING 

Admission S2.00
The LaFortune Club 

Ftida.Y Admission 2 tot ptlce of 1 

Washington (AP( -Secretary of State Alexander M. Hais Jr. left yesterday on a quick tr1p to three European countries and a secrecy-shrouded meeting with Crown Prince Fahd of Saudi Arabia. 
After a 12-hour stopover in Malaga for the F ahd meeting today, Haig planned to continue to Yugoslavia and Germany. He was sceduled to return to W ashingtom on Tuesday. 
In Germany, Haig will consult with Chancellor Helmut Schmidt over growing anti-U.S. 
and anti-nuclear unrest, par­ticularly among German youth. On that score, Schmidt is expected to ask-and likely get­
Haig's  assurance  that the U­ 
nited  States  will  not  deploy  
neutron  nuclear  weapins  in  

Eurol?e i~ the n~ar futpre.
Hatg hunself 1s the 'target of demonstrations planned tomor­row in Berlin, where he will deliver a speech on U.S. de­fense strategy. 
Little has been said about the meeting with the Saudi crown prince, who is considered one of 
O'Hare 
1

$20 
one 
way 
ARRIVE j,
LEAVE 

LEAVE 
ARRNE LEAVE
LEAVE 

MICHIANA 
O'HARE O'HARE
BIG BEAR NOTRE 

MICHIANA > 
DAME 

REGIONAL 
REGIONAL.
TOWN& 

AIRPORT
COUNTRY 

AIRPORT 
.S·!Mlam
4:111am4 IS am 
7 !Sam H·IKla.m 

!IllS am 
KIKlam
5:111 am 

S4Sa m
51Sam 
Ill :111 am 

12.4S p m 
lll:IKl am
7 :Ill am 

745am
715 am 
12:lllpm 

24Spm 
12 IKl t\cxm
<J:!O am 

'lAS am
'liS am 
2:10pm 

44Spm 
21Kipm
I! :10 am 

114Sam
IIISa.m 

b4Spm
4311 pm 
4·1KI pm
I :lllpm 

14S pm
IISpm 
71Kl pm 

<J ISpm 
oiWipm
:!ISpm 
:!JIIp.m 

:14Spm 
lll45 p m
x:lllpm 
HIXIpm
s:lllpm 

S4~ pm
515 p.m 
lii:IKl pm 

1215am 
'$38 
CAll (219) 255-3068 FOR RESERVATIONS HOUND THIP 
the most influential members of the royal family and whose supportfor U.S. policies in the M1ddle East is considered crucial. 
Although a reporter learned of the Haig-Fahd meeting on Tuesday, the State Department declined to confirm it until just prior to Haig's departure. 
Haig said earher yesterday that Saudi Arabia is "essen­tially oriented toward Western interests" and that cooperation is easing the Lebanon crisis and in holding down oil prices "has underlined as perhaps nothing else has heretofore the impor­tance of the American-Saudi 
Arabian relationship .. '' 
He made the remark on the ABC television program ''Good Morning America.~' Government and diplomatic sources said Haig probably wants to reassure fahd that there will be no last-minute hitch in the controversial sale of $8.5 billion in U.S. weapons, including five Airborne War­ning and Controll Systems air­craft, known as AWACS. 
The Saudis have made the sale a test of their relationship with the United States, and Fahd reportedly has said he would cancel a proposed visit to the United States later this year if the sale did nofgo through. 
President Reagan refused to budge des,pite the objections voiced by vtsiting Israeli Prime Minister Menachem Begin this week that the AWACS are a threat to Israel 
TV filming features ND sites, people 
By DAVID RICKABAUGH 
Senior StaffReporter 
TheNotreDamecampuswill 
be one of the filming locations 
for a Thanksgiving television 
special on the rosary. Produc­
tiOn is sceduled for tomorrow 
and Monday. 
Notre Dame President Fr. 
Theodore M. Hesburgh, Head 
Football Coach Gerry Faust, 
the Notre Dame Glee Club and 
various campus religious land­
marks will represent the Uni­
versity in the special. 
Comedian Bob Newhart, who 
gained popularity from his 
Saturday rught CBS television 
program ''The Bob Newhart 
Show," narrates the special. 
The program, one of a series 
produced by Family Theater 
Productions in Los Angeles, 
wiH feature Mother Teresa. 
Filmin~ began in Washington 
D.C.wtth scenes revealing the 
work the Albanian nun has 
done with the poor. 
Rev. Patrick Peyton, the "rosary priest," created the idea for the show and is also known for an Easter special featuring Princess Grace of Monaco as narrator. 
The filming scedule includes 
the filming of interviews in 
Annenberg Auditorium at 
11:15 a.m. Monday morning, which will enable 200 students to serve as background for random crowd shots. 
Department of Information Services Assistant Director Jay 
J. Kane called the show "a traditional Fr. Peyton fllm." Kane said the syndicated pro­gram wiH air over 200 stations and reach every major audience 
LEAVE MIDWAY MOTOR LODGE 
44Sam 
6.45 am 
!i45am · lll45 am 1245pm 
245 pm 445pm 
41Klam S·!Mlam 7·1Kl am 'HKlam II·IXlam joiXlpm :l:IKlp.m 5:1Xl p m 


• • • CFA
The ND chapter of the Fellowship of Christian Athletes (FCA) is sponsoring a presentation of the Notre Dame-FCA Forum with alililstant football coach Tom Uchtenberg on Wednesday, Sep­
tember 16. The session will be held in St. Edward's chapel at 8:30p.m. 
continued from page 10
This will be the first of a series of monthly forum. The FCA is a non­denominational group which promotes Christian fellowship among 

Thus, the CFA was created three years ago to
athletes and coaches. -The Observer 

try to get things done within the NCAA. Different schools joined the CFA for different 
The deadline for entryin the interhall trac~ meet Is reasons-some for greed. Most others, like next Wednesday (Sept. 16). The meet, scheduled for Friday, Sept. 25, Notre Dame, joined for t>rinciples. is for both Notre Dame men and women. Sign-up at the Office ofNon­Amons the CFA's mitial objectives was Varsity Athletics ( C-2 of the ACC) or call 6100. -Tbe Observer further mternal reorganization. Why should 
Marquette, Wabash, Dayton and the like­schools without major football programs-carry
Referees are needed for Notre Dame·~ women's in­

equal clout on the critical television issue as the
terhall flag football. Interested menor women should contact the NVA 

D1vision I powers? Further, the CFA wants to
office at 61 00 or stop by C-2 ofthe ACC. -The Observer 

impose tighter academic requirements, not only on college athletes, but on incoming freshmen 
Cross Country league competition will consist of seven 

as well. It also supports elimination offreshman
man teams. All members must be from the same hall. The deadline for 

eligibility and an increase in the number of
entries is Wednesday (Sept. 16) and can be submitted to the NVA 
coaches and scholarships.
office (C-2 of the ACC) or call6100. Competition will take place on 

In recent weeks, the media has painted an
Burke Golf course and the time and date will be announced. -The 

ugly J.>icture of the CFA. A large part of the bias 
Observer 

in pnnt probably lies with the fact that the 
Classifieds 
I 
I • ...., ;,:-..,. 1,-....., . , , ,...,_ i I, Lu...,~; :-•vv~'l..J 
~-=====~-=--~---~ 
....................................... FOUND: green Jacket tn rm. 356 Fltz. Hall (EG BLDG) on 9/6/81. Cal18421 to tden­
tily. 
FOUND: SET OF KEYS AT NOTRE DAME LIBRARY PIT WEDNESDAY EVENING. CALL TRISH4-1-4875 
lOST: ESSENTIALS OF MANAGERIAL 
FINANCE TEXT BOOK irround call Tony 
272-6629 book last seen tn 220 hayes­
healy 9/8 
~-----------, 
I ·oR~-.,··;·­
I r-· · · ru.: t\ ~ 
L-----..-----------' 
·····•·•············ 
RENT TO OWN A COLOR TV OR STEREO CALL SUN APPLIANCE 291­5112 
House lor rent Walk to campus. For tnlo call Jtm at 3234 
Need one male housemate For onlorma­loon call232-6344 early or late. 
UGLY DUCKLING RENT-A-CAR From $8.95 a day and 8 cents a mole. Phone 259-8459 lor reservahons. 
.------·--------~, 

' 
1--· -------------­
Need 2 GA.'s any game Keolh 3507 
I am not choos y-woll pay bog bucks lor 3-4 
G.A. lockers to any home game. Please call Glenn at 3387111 
NEED FSU GA. AND STUDENT TIX­WILL PAY SS$S CALL JOHN,287-6035 
Noble Roman's as now hanng waatresaes 
and wllllers, schedules can be adjusted to 
meet your class schedules. Must be 21. 
call277-5303 
............ NEED 2 FSU G.A. AND 2 MSU STU­DENT TIX. TOM 1020 
TICKEIS 
Need lour FSU GA. s Call Paul8932 
I NEED 3 GAS FOR LSU CALl DON at X1139 
1 FSU GA. CALL JENNY 8026 
NEED 4 MICH ST TICKETS CALL JOHN 1001 
Penn Sl locket wanted please call Donna 816771 
Neect 4 UA t1x to any hOme roatoau game. Call Rene 4408 SMC 
Need Floroda St. tockels. Call Steve,272­2925 
NEED 4 LSU GA TIX. CALL JOHN 1001 
MICHIGAN lox lor sale Paor, row 59. 35 yard lone. (313) 532-1313 or (313) 356­3696 
Desperately need 12 Mochogan lox. Check my p<oces. Cllll Moke 0. at 6661 Leave message w~h Shor\ey or necessary 
Need 2 or 4 GA or Student lox lor any home game Call Mary Jane 41-4411 
Need 2 or 4 GA or Student lox to any gama MUY IMPORTANTEllI Call Lesloe or Cathy 277-2244 
U ol M NO football lox, 2 great seats! 45 yatdhne, row 22 Best oHer over $100 lor pr 313-971-2583 eves. 
need 4 GA'sto Mochlgan Stale call John at 1216 
Need 2 or 4 GA llx lor LSU, MSU, or FSU. Bog bucks. Call Stan. 3008. 

NCAA has a full-time public relations staff while the CFA has no one ... yet. Indications have been that that ifthe CFA wins, corruption will run rampant throughout college football. On the contrary, the CF A only could improve on the present Situation. "The NCAA's 
Need 1 LSU Stud. Ticket, Chns-1714 

answer has always been to add another 
········;······················································· 

HELPII need ONE LSU lickell Please call investigator," says Corrigan. "The CFA's 289--8955 anytime . 
answer is to get people together in a room and 
Desperately need one G.A. lor LSU. Will confront each other. " pay$$. Bruce 289--1916 
A change in the approach to abuses certainly FOR SALE: 3 PAIRS OF LSU couldn't hurt. At present a staff of about eight
GA.'S. BEST OFFER CALL 3815. is playing watchdog over the 700-plus NCAA 
WILl PAY ANYTHING FOR 2 GA.'S FOR members. Now isn't that absurd? USC. MUST HAVE TIX FOR MOM'S B­Corrigan is quick to point out however, "Not 
DAY.I SWEAR IT'S THE TRUTHIII CALL 

everyone in the CFA agrees on aU the issues.
JACK 8519 PLEASE. 

It's tough to .get 60 people to agree on 
NEED 3 GA. FOR PURDUE NAME 

anything, like 'Today's Monday.'
YOUR PRICE. CALL BOB AT 277-4022. 

Most have tried to drape a blanket of greed 
NEED FLORIDA STATE TICKET. Just 

over the CFA schools. For certain insitutions, 
one. Cousin commg from Flonda, and 

she's a beaulirul blonde. Call Tom at that is an accurate charge. But not for all. 6620. "It's a matter of rights," Corrigan empha­sizes. "Does the NCAA own the rights to
NEED 4 LSU TIX. CALL JOHN 1001 

anything that involves the Fighting Irish, 
CAN'T GET A TICKET TO THE GAME? 
including cable TV?" 
SEE THE IRISH ON COLOR TV AT 

IRISH COUNTRY, 744 N. NOTRE DAME Ah, there's the rub-cable television. Today 
AVE. (corner oi.N.O. and South Bend we are only scratching the surface. AnyAve.). Open 9 am. Beer, wrne. breakrasl, 
forsightful entertainment outlet, like a college
lunch and drnner 

athletic department, has to realize this as a gold 
I DESPERATELY NEED 1 LSU GA. OR 

mine of the not-too-distant future. People are
STUDENT TICKET CALL BOB 164 7 

throwing around figures-as high as $80 million in cable revenues for one Notre Dame-USC game!!! There's just no telling how big this could become. 

Perhaps you've noticed the new satelite 
Gel the only guooe to the N.D. campus 

receiver on the roof at WNDU. Don't think for a
"The Unoversoly ol Notre Dame A Portrarl or It's Hostory and Campus" by T.J Schelereth_ On sale in front ol K. ol C. berore the L.S.u. game 

minute that its sole purpose is to make Channel 
16 "The Leader." Should the CFA win its 
battle in principle, thus stripping the NCAA of 
its television ne_gotiating nghts and returning 
them to the institutions, a private Notre Dame 
cable television network coldd become a future 
reality. 
And would that hold down tuition! 
At the beginning, I said Notre Dame could 
have been placed on probation this week. 
Here's why the University was not ... 
For three weeks, CFA and non-CFA schools 
have been talking, discussing, argu.ing, debat· 
ing or whatever-trying to decide on a course of 
action. An eventual compromise is a certainty. 
zafter all, no one ever wins this kind of dispute 
outright. 
Different schools and conferences have 
wisely been pushing compromise. Mter all, if 
the NCAA evicts the CFA members, it may as 
well dissolve itself. The CFA holds the trump 
card. 
The ChiefExecutive Officers of the Big Eight Conference, for instance, sent a letter to the NCAA stating, "(We) agree that no further action should be taken on either the CFA or NCAA football television packages, until the NCAA has addressed the fundamental question of reorganization. We stongly urge that the NCAA move to convene a special meetin~ by November 15 for the resolution of these cntical matters. 
"As members of the NCAA, we respectfully request an official response from the NCAA leadership prior to September 9.'' 
The Atlantic Coast and the Southeastern C::onferences sent similar letters. 
Tuesdat the NCAA had a lot of wind taken from its sails when a state district judge in Austin, Tex., issued a temporary restraining order prohibitting the NCAA from taking or threatening disciplinary action against schools which participate in the CFA contract with NBC. The order was requested by the University of Texas as a f1tst step in a class action suit jt filed on behalf of all 61 CF A members challen~ing the NCAA's right to control the televisiOn of college football. 
The CFA postponed its re-vote scheduled for Thursday until next Friday. Also th~ NCAA has agreed to sit down and discuss a possible compromise, but the guess here is that things won't be settles until January at the annual NCAA convention. 
Cointibuting to this column were Marll Rolfes and The Associated Press. 
ST. JOSEPH'S MEDICAL CENTER IS A 

~--------------------------· 
PROGRESSIVE 337-BEO ACUTE CARE INSTITUTION. DESIRABLE JOB OP­PORTUNITIES ARE AVAILABLE. PLEASE CONTACT: MIKE FERRY, 

SUBSCRIBE NOW! EMPLOYMENT SPECIALIST AT 237­7665 OR PATRICIA SHEYKA, NURSE RECRUITER A 237-7275 . 
Mochael J. Dunn and Wilham P. Slane;y 
slarttrend. For detaols call 3584 

---Ibe-O~~""~~D·_---~~&.~Y=-~.L-=-­
-
SOCIAL CONCERNS FILM SERIES--­September 15-26 

It Only Makes Sense that a newspaper run by students 
Soc1al Concerns F1lm Senes 

for the students .would have the best inside coverage of 
To Kill A Mocldf~Vb~td 
Sept.15, 16,& 17----7&9:30p.m 
Engoneerong Audotoroum 

Notre Dame sports and news. 
FREE Admossoon 
.. 

After All, The Fighting Irish Players 
Soc1al Concerns Film Senes 
SOMETHING BEAUTIFUL FOR GOO 
Sept 15, 16, & 17---12:00 noon 

are students just like us. Our reporters eat, 
LaFortune Lohle Theatre 
FREE Admossoon 

study, and live with team members--and 
---HAVING A PARTY?--­

we know more than any city newspaper 
We woll 06hver all the beer, liquor, moxers, 
cups and oce you need allhe lowest p<oces 
on town call Pele or Mark at 3670 lor 

about the inner workings of the Irish 
details 

athletic machine. 
CRYSTAL ROCKS 
CRYSTAL ROCKS 
CRYSTAL ROCKS 

l.\1ah· ch<:ck~ payahlc to: The Observer
CRYSTAL ROCKS 

~---------------,
THIS SATURDAY AT IRISH COUNTRY I 

land mail to: P.O. Box Q I 
IRISH COUNTRY 744 N NOTRE DAME 

I Notre Dam<:, IN 46'5'561
AVE. ( at lhe corner of N.D. Ave. and South Bend Ave.) Open 9 am Salurday. Beer, Wone, Breakfast, Lunch and Donner. 

I D III you can't getonlo the game, come and Endosed is 120 l<>r one academi<" year. watch 11 on our color TV. 
........ .... .. .......... ... 
The TOP 20 TIME TUNNEL 

woth Tom Neely I DEnclosed is S I .c; for one semt·ster. ' I 
Sunday Noghl at7 

onWSNOAM64 I . I This Week's Show: The Second Week I NanH: ................................................................................. I 
or September, t 974 
COPY EDITORS­
BRIEF BUT CRUCIAL MEETING SUN­
I 

Address ............................................................................. ~ 
DAY, SEPT. 13, 7:30 P.M. 
(NEWSROOM). ALL MUST ATTEND. 
DON'T GET MAO-GET EVEN!!II 

! City...................................... State ...................... ZiP........I 
... 
... 
' 
f. 

... 
·' 
Mishawaka, 255-8040 :.· 1202 E. Jefferson 
Amish Style Cooking at its. Best Homemade p:les , breads 

40 foot Salad Bar 
Home-Cooked Meals Seating Capacity--850 people Groups Welcome 
Souvenir Gift Shop Excellent selection ·of meats 
Sat. morning brunch-70 items $4.59-8 am-2 pm 
cont£nued from page 10 
best of luck, and certainly better luck than Brown himself had for his forst college game. 
"I'll never forget that game," he says with a chuckle. "We were playing at home against Missouri, and the coach of the Tigers was Don Faurot, the man I had beaten out for the Ohio State job. 
''The day started out on a bad note. As the team arrived for the game and was getting off the bus, I spotted some old friends from Massillon. So, I sent the boys inside, and stopped to talk. As I headed in 
Friends sometitnes question zourtaste inmovies. But they Usee themwithyou anyway. 
It sounded fantastic in the newspaper. ·;-, ' But only to you. Still. you had to see it. and \\ith a little amHwisti.ng your friends a).,l:f'eed to 
see 1t too. 

You\e already heard a barrage of jokes about your taste in movies since the curtain .c;m1e down. And. lmm1ing your friends. it'll go on for weeks. 
So. to make ii up to them. ;md show them yow· taste isn't bad in e\·erything. you do something a little special. '!(might. let 1t be Li>wenbr;iu. 

Lowenbriiu. Here's tO g~!~..!tl~!!!!~!pany Mdwauk•• w.scons·n 
• • • Brown 
the stadium, a guard grabbed 
me and asked for my ucket. 
"I don't have a ticket, I'm 
Paul Brown,'' I said. 
"Yeah, and I'm President 
Roosevelt, and you still can't 
come in," he replied. 
"Well, there was nothing I could do to convince him. So I ended up throwing pebbles at the locker room window. Eventually, one of the players spotted me, and sent the trainer down to let me in." 
"We had seen Missouri's 
spring game," he recalls, "and 
there was nothing exceptional 
about it. But wouldn't know it, 
Faurot picked our game to 
invent the split T formation. 
''Now, the split T eventually revolutionized college football. It led to the wishbone and the veer offenses. But I didn't know what it was. Faurot was really trying to get back at me for getting the job he wanted. 
''Missouri drove up and down the field all day, but they couldn't seem to get inside our twenty yard line. We ended up winning, 12-7, which shows you how bad place-kickers were then." 
After the game friends chided Brown for being unable to beat Missouri by a bigger margin. The tigers were not supposed to have much of a team. Little did they know that the split T would win every other game for Missouri, and they would end up in the Sugar Bowl. 
Brown and the Buckeyes lost just one game that season, and the next year the undefeated National Champions. Could Gerry Faust be as successful? ''Anything is possible,'' Brown says. ''Gerry is a superb coach, and he has 'terrific material to work with. He's going to do very well. 
"You see, at places like Notre Dame,(AND Ohio State was the same when I was there) 1 people want a winner. When you have that, there is no pressure. The real pressure for a coach comes when he is fighting with the administrat­ion or with the team owner. Otherwise, when the people want a winner, and you are doing your best to give them one, it's just a lot of fun." 
ND soccer 
overcomes 
Loyola, 
The Notre Dame soccer team improved its record to 2-0 last night with a 7-0 thrashing of visiting Loyola (Chicago) on the astroturf of Cartier Fteld. The Irish outshot their guests by a lopsided 38~ 1 count 
Sophoimore Rob Snyder scored two goals for Notre Dame while classmate Ted Schwartz scored once and ad­ded an assist. Senior co-captain 
Sami Kahale  dished  out  two  
assists.  
Rich  hunter's  team  now  

awaits tomorrow's showdown with national power St. Louis University. The game will be played on Alumni Field (east of Cartier) at 3 p.m. Admission is $1; 50 cents for students with a Notre Dame or Saint Mary's ID card. 

The Observer~-""=="'--·· _ .. . 
Saturday, September 12, 1981 -page 9
Weekend 
----...-­

Molarity Michael Molinelli 

Doonesbury 
MILES, TeLL US, WHAT 
Y()(J 54Y 7lJ THOSE.  
CR./TICS fAHJ CLAIM  I'M NOT  
7HAT J()66£R5 ARC  Sill?& I  
INSIJFF'EM&Y PIOUS,  UNOER­ 
THAT 71/CtAff£CTAN  E;TANO.  
AIR OF SU~OimY?  I  

WE'LL LJJA.f ... LJE'LL £V£N L-05E, B VT l.J£ 1L L 170 IT I<N&.JJIJC, ITS ALL ~UR5 -l11AIJK5 /?; -n-u=.­61JPFbRI or=-THEE 5nJI?£NP?, -mE ALUHNI, 71-IF FANS 
ANP (){)fi LAPY --­
Garry Trudeau 
Campus 
~ 

Saturday September 12
WELL, FOR eX-THB?e's IJEEN 
AMPLE, WE'VE !{} IVE£I) ro. 
HOW ELS£3 COUW 
813£N TALKING JOGGING 
I FfJ5Sif3LY KNOW 
ZfJ MINIJTCS, /Wf) P!WMfJTCS 
7HIJ.T YOU HIIV£ 71W, 
Y()(J ~YET 7D PCRJPHCM.L · 
CHIS£LW FfATUR£5 
MAX£ EYe CON-VISION. 
ANO A CASUAL BUT 
TACT WITH M£. 1 
SUBLIME U/ARJ)f?f)B£~ 

/\ \ 
ACROSS 47 One who 
QUITE f?J&HT.
/NC/?£[)18/..E! 
•10 a.m.·l 2:30 p.m. -snltc: musc:um, special
I'VE N£3VCR. 
H£'S~I&HT! 
museum hours for home football saturdays
SEEN THIS

ANO 7HIS ISI.fT 
MAN IJfR1lE 
•11 a.m.-1 p.m. -films, information, refresh­
5TA6tf), FOLKS! 
/NMYUF£. 
ments., glee club will sing at noon, alumni
I I 
hospitality center, north dome ace, sponsored by alumni assoc. 
•1 
:30 p.m. -football game, nd vs lsu, home, 

•7 
and 10 p.m. -film, "the great escape", 

cngint"erlng aud., sponsored by film club ofnd, Sunday September 13 

•t0:30 
a.m. -opening mass, formal opening of school year, rev. theodore hesburgh , sacred heart church, prof. timothy o'mc.-ara will preach 

•1-4 
p.m. -opening exhibits, the snlte museum of art, faculty show and about line In o'shaughnessy


port 48 Adds 
4 Defied 50 Syrian city gallery 5 Add zest to 53 Luminary, •2·3:30 p.m. -reception, presidc.-nt's recc.-ption 6 Pursue for short 
for new faculty, cce,
7 Truncate 54 Fat 
• 3 p.m. -soccer game, nd vs st. louis univ., alumni
8 Make the 55 Rich vein 
field,
first bet 56 Gothic arch 9 Straight 57 Brumal 
• 7 p.m. -off-campus mass, bulla shed, sponsored 10 Defied blanket by off-campus commission, 11 Beach 59 Exam •7 and 10 .p.m. -film, "the great escape", 
resort 60 Robt. ­
engineering aud., S I 
12 Addict 61 Bruce of 13 Steep rise films 21 -Marbles 64 Levin or 
(famed Wolfert 
Television 
statuary) 23 Foulards 25 Trays 
Tonight
27 Beat It! 28 Cue, in 
7:00p.m.
round singing 16 Barbara Mandrell 29 Talked 22 Enos non-stop 
28 240 Robert
31 Harold

of comics 34 Sneak Previews 
32 Intimidate 
7:30p.m. 
33 Upper crust 
34 Vikings #110 
34 Hold back 
37 Part of a 8:00p.m.sales 
16 Marie pitch, 22 Saturday night movie, high midnight 
for short 
28 Love Boat
41 Bucolic 
34 Classics, The Cabinet ofDr. Caligan·
44 Challenge 

The Daily Crossword 
LCJ 1981 by Chicago Tribune-N. Y. News Synd. Inc. All Rights Reserved 

1 Chain links 
6 Oaf 10 Bungle 14 Follow 15 Pueblo 
Indian 16 Actress Kirk 17 Terrain at 
New Orleans 18 Copycat 19 First place 20 Incites 22 Movie 
about TV 24 Natives 
of Gdansk 26 102 27 Leaped 30 Was present 
35 Hermit or king 
36 Faineant 38 Hackneyed 39 Slot spot 
40 Diehard's cry 
42 S: Fr. 43 -as the hills 45 Bill of fare 46 Grafted, in heraldry 
······························~ 
• THE FIRST SPEAKER OF THE YEAR • 
: Katherine Brady on Incest, Rape : : and Child Abuse •
• 

• Monday, Sept. 14 8 pm • • Library Aud. • 
• reception for all to follow • · : sponsored by your student union : 
issues a formal order 
49 Roof 
support 51 To and_ 52 La-, Milan 54 Small blossoms 
58 Voted in 
62 Corporate emblem 63 Indigo source 
65 16th cen· tury Eng· lish poet 
66 Arab gulf 67 Knowledge handed down 68 Tough problem 69 Borscht ingredient 70 Medical applicator71 Frequently 
DOWN 1 Helen of Troy's mother 
2 Humdinger 
3 Skagerrak 

What do football and beer 
have In common? BEER SALLS 5 gallons of draft beet In a no deposit keg • 
~ 

Perfect for ~allgators and \ pos~ game celebrations. 
OAK DAIRY PARTY STORE 1129 ··Stateline Road 684-4950 open sunday 
mlchlgCln le1w... ND 


,. 
SRorts 


The collegiate football power needed a new bead coach. They chose the country's most successful high school coach, a man responsible for powerhouse teams in the Cincinnati area. They were criticized at first, but the man soon won over all his critics with his enthusiasm and winningfootball. 
The story is well-known to Notre Dame football fans. But this is not about Notre Dame's new coach, Gerry Faust. This version took place 40 years ago, and involves one of the greatest football coaches of all time, Paul Brown. 
"I was the coach at Massillon High School when the head coaching position at Ohio State opened up," Brown recalls. "That was the only job I ever wanted. I had dreamed of being at Ohio State since the day I started coaching." Paul Brown won the national championship in his second year at Ohio State, and later founded the \.leveland Browns, leading them to a num­ber of NFL championships. He also established the Cin­cinnati Bengals, and now serves as the team's general 
manager. 

At the beginning ofhis career he built Massillon High into the strongest team in the state. It's a tradition of winning that continues today. Last November, Faust's Moeller High School team defeated Massillion in the Ohio state championship game. His success brought him acclaim, and his move to the college ranks created greater attention. 
"Gerry Faust is going through the same things today that I put·up with 40 years ago," he says. "It seems like every reporter in the country wants to see you. They are all looking for some kind of angle. Of course, you have to co-operate with the press, but you can't let them interfere with the work you have to do." 
"Everybody says that a high school coach could never recruit well enough to build a winning college program," he says. "They said the same thing when I went to Ohio State. But it's really no trouble. The real strength of a high school coach is that he knows where to go. I knew everyone when I was the coach at Massil­lon -coaches, friends, former players -they are all 
CFA vs. NCAA 

ND instrumental in TV battle 
The University of Notre Dame could have

I 
been placed on NCAA probation this.w ~ e k .

I 
Here's why ... 

~ The heated debate between the ·National 
I 
I 
I Collegiate Athletic Association and the College Football Association returned to the headlines this week-right on schedule. Thursday was to beD-Day-Decision Day for the CFA. It has been three weeks since the 61-member CF A voted to ratify a four-yeat television package with NBC worth $180 million. The vote , was 33 in favor, 20 against, five abstaining and I three schools not voting because their creden­tials were not in order. 
I 
Thursday there was to be are-vote of sorts. Anyone who wanted to change their vote could have done so. For months the word from NCAA headquarters has been that CF A schools voting to ratify the NBC package would be harshly reprimanded. Thirty three schools called the bluff on August 21. The rest backed down. 
And throughout the three-year history of the CFA, what school has led the charge, was, of course, one of the 33 yes votes, and, in fact, was instrumental in the creation of this rebelious group? 
You guessed-it -The University of Notre Dame. 
In its barest simplicity, this contreversy stems from the fact that NCAA member institutions just aren't allowed to do that. In 

·_,. July the' NCAA signed a similar pact with ABC and CBS worth $263 million. The two-network package would allow a given school to be on television six times over two years. The CF A deal allows for seven appearances over the same span. 
NCAA regulations strictly forbid member institutions from participatmg in a football television contract that the NCAA itself did not negotiate. But the situation is far more complex. 
Not since Teddv Roosevelt initiated the 
NCJ\A: in the early . 1900s amidst mounting fatalittes on the gr1drron, has that governing body faced such a critical turning point. 

This drama has been unfolding for decades, ,. and to trace its origins, one need look no I further than this very campus. 
I 

Turn the clock back, ii you will, to the late 
1940s. Things were much as they are today. The righting Irish were the hottest item available in the relatively young world of . college football television. Notre Dame was wallowing in her rich tradition and global booster club. And by the mid-'50s, Notre Dame 
had her own television network for football. 
Other schools were up in arms, especially the 
Big Ten schools. "Notre Dame's on TV all the 
time,'' they pouted, ' 'and my school never gets 
on.'' 

"We're only giving the public what they 
want,': came the logical response from the 
television execs. 
That response wasn't quite good enough. 
Hence the NCAA assumed the right to 
negotiate a collective television contract for the 
"benefit" of its members. 
The big football schools lived with this 
verdict for the next 20 years. After all, "We're 
only talking about a few thousand dollars, 
right?'' 

But that few thousand became a few hundred 
thousand dollars, and then a few million 
dollars. And the tensions grew. 
And as the years passed, sports at any level 
-football in ~;>articular -were becoming more 
and more busmess-like. More televisions ... add 
color, pagentry and the air of excitement that 
televisiOn helped to create, and voila-money. 
Bi~ money. 
Crtes for reorganizing the NCAA were 
answered, in part, in 1978 when colleges and 
universities were separated into different levels 
ofcompetition-Division I, II, III and so forth. 
After all, the Notre Dames and Ohio States 
shouldn't be playing the Davidson's and 
Widners too often, should they? · 
That wasn't enough for the really big hitters. 
See CFA, page 7 

Saturday, September 12, 1981 -page 10 
The Gerry Faust of1941 

helpful in recruiting. 
"Being a high school coach also gives you an oppor­tunity to watch the college coaches who come to recruit your players. You can learn a lot about what you want to do, and what you don't want to do. by dealing with them." 
Besides, ifyou have a good high school team. you can bring some of them along with you. Brown took six of his players from Massjllon in his first year at Ohio State. Faust has three members of last year's Moeller team on the Notre Dame roster. 
Assistant coaches are vital to the operation ofa team. and that is always seen as a problem for a new coach. 
"It's not a case of learning the ropes," Brown says. "The X's and O's make the transition quite easily. It may surprise you, but I used the same basic plays with the Browns and the Bengals that I did at Massillon. Gerry, apparently, is doing the same thing. 
"The reason to keep some assistants from the last coach is just for the sake ofcontinuity. There are a lot of things a new coach has to learn about the school or the organization:Besides, why not keep a man on the sta.II if he is a good coach? 
Brown is .a fan of Faust, and he is eager to talk about the new Irish coach. 
"I've known him for quite some time," Brown says. "He is an unusual person, and a superb coach. All he has to do is be himself, and he'll be successful. His en­thusiasm and bubbly personality make him a swell per­son to be associated with. He's just a great guy." 
Faust opens his first season this weekend in a game against LSU. Brown says he's sent a letter wishing the . See BROWN, page 8 

Always a friend and coach, Gerry Faust was certainly ~ crowd /Jieaser last night. [photo by john Macor] 
---·~­

The Irish Extra -LSU Saturday, September 12, 1981 -page 11 
Key matchup 
Experienced J.B. vs. adjusted Tony 
By SKIP DE~ARDIN 
Assistant Sports Edtto,. 
lltey are the leaders of their teams. One Inherited the job, as one ofa very few seniors. The other leads by example, and by means of his enormous talent. They will go head-to­head today when Notre Dame opens its 19tH season against LSU. 
Jim Britt went from Minden, La., to Baton Rouge with a pocket full ofpress clippings. He had been named the defensive player ofthe year In Louisiana's high schools the year before, and he fully expected the laurels to continue to pile up once he began playing major college football for the Tigers. 
Well, the honors were not forthcoming, at least until this fall. 
On the other hand, Tony Hunter has continued to get top billing from football writers whenever the subject ofNotre Dame's offense is brought up. He came out of Clndnnati's Moeller High School with prep All-America credentials, and each year has received at least a mention from the men that assemble the mythical "best" line-ups in the college game. 
Britt, a defensive ba,·k, and Hunter, a 
wingback, will see a lot ofeach other on the 
floor of Notre Dame Stadium this weekend. 
J B., as his friends call him, has started every game but one in the LSU defensive backfield since his freshman year. He has clearly become one of the premier cornerbacks in the Southeastern Conference, if not the nation. 
"I know my teammates will be expecting more leadership from me this year," he says. "But that's something I'm willing to do. In fact, I'm looking forward to it." 
LSll is a young team, and Britt is the only senior starter in the defensive unit. lie could not avoid the lcaderhip role ifhe wanted to. But he has eagerly acet·pted the job as "big brother" to his defensive teammates. 
Hunter's record in just two years has been nothing short ofamazing. In his freshman year, he set a Notre Dame record by averaging 2S.6 yards per reception. His career record of 
19.9 yards pc:~ catch ranks second among active college players. 
This season, Hunter's high school coach, Gerry Faust, has instituted a new offense. The multiple formation approach Is a concerted effort to get the ball into the hands ofTony Hunter as often as possible. 
"He's our best athlete," Faust says. "He has to be to do all the things we are asking ofhim. He'll split wide, or set up in a full house backfield. He'll go deep for a pass, or take a hand-off. Tony can do it all, as well as block." 
A Business Administration student with a 
3.5 grade point average, Britt says it takes a quick mind to play the way he does. 
"You've got to be able to think and be alert when playingcornerback," he says. "You have to be able to anticipate just enough and know when to anticipate. A lot oftimes, in one-on­one situations, ifyou're able to out-think your man, you've got him whipped." 
For his part, Hunter knows that he will have to be sharp. He is, after all, learning a new position. 
"It's tough to learn a new position," he admits, "but I really like it. I'll still be the primary receiver, plus I'll be In motion a lot. I'll have the opportunity to run the ball too. I enjoy the increased responsibility." 
Saturday, the situation is bound to arise. On a "third and long" play, Hunter will race downfield. Britt will pick up the coverage, most likely with help from another back. Kiel or Koegel will throw the ball.... 
Time and again, the two leaders will match wits and physical ability. Whoever is better at doinghis job will go alongway toward leading 
his team to victory. 


Tony Hunter 


• LSU 

(wntinued from page 2) 
game against 'Barna, at strong safety. 
"I expect LSU to come in here with that same kind of intensity (as they did in Notre Dame's 3·0 victory in the Stadium in 1970)," Faust said. "Playing Notre Dame means too much to them to have any kind ofletdown, e..en after an emotional conference game like _. Alabama. Plus, it'll be a good test for our young men because they know they'll have to be ready to play." 
Should the game turn into a kicking contest the Tigers will rely on the foot ofJames Wagner. Uffort liobley is the only Tiger casl!alty from the 'Barna game sustaining a shoulder injury finishing him for the year. 
• • • South 

Britt has allowed the LSU defense to become more flexible, in much the same way that Hunter has allowed Notre Dame to vary its offense. 
"I knowJames will not make a mistake," says LSU defensive back coach Greg Williams. "lie allows me to make defensive adjustments that we've never been able to make before." 
• • • Eric 

(continued from page 2) thought, 'Wow, I came here to be a running back and now I'm going to play flanker.' I know how a lot oftimes you get in college and they'll changt· you to a position and just leave you there and not care about you. I had that in mind. But then, I thought that ifl worked at it, maybe I'd have a chance to play more." Ellington proved himself and satisfied the coa<:hing staff as well. lie certainly will cause problems with flanker reverses and open-field running. Stovall, like faust, has been a big intluence in giving him the confidence to make such a switch. And Ellington says the two coaches havt· a lot in common. "They're about the same," he says. "I think Coach Stovall has a more logical approach to thl' game. Coach Faust is just wild-eyed and bushy-tailed, running around and hollering. But they remind me ofeach other. I think highly of them both." Ellington !1nd!> him1>elf in an awkward pos1t1on thb week -playing against his formt·r coach tor a team that need!> his taknt~ to bt· d1ver~t· otfcn!>IVcly lt'!o nll:e 10 he uuportant agam. 
(continued from page 1) 

1979 meeting with the Irish, "This is more important than any bowl game, conference game, or anything that Clemson has played in. For once I won't have to worry about motivation for a football game. I know our players will perform above their capabilities." 
Although Notre Dame has always raised the 
blood pressure ofsoutherners, this hatred has 
intensified in recent years, especially in the 
Dan Davine era. For some reason Moose 
Krause scheduled more and more games with 
Southern schools for the late-'70s, just about 
the time Devine took over for Ara Parseghian. 
Krause should have learned his lesson 
because ugly scenes in wars with the South 
began in 1969, at the Georgia Tech-Notre 
Dame game in Atlanta. In a nationally 
televised game, the Irish vaulted to a 38-6lead 
late in the fourth quarter. The psyched, and by 
now inebriated Yellow jacket fans were 
letting their "buzz" get the best ofthem. They 
began pelting the Notre Dame players with 
ice and cups of water. 

Three years later the Irish traveled to Baton 
Rouge for the first time, and the treatment 
accorded Notre Dame's black players was less 
than courteous. Racial barbs from the stands 
and people in town was one thing, but it was 
reported that the hotel administration at 
Notre Dame's headquarters allowed phone 
calls through to black players' rooms at 3 a.m., 
prohibiting a sound night's sleep. 
The legacy of Dan Devine and his journey 
through the South is a long one. While 
Parseghian played relatively few contests with 
southern teams during his reign ( 1964-74) 
Devine had 23 games with teams from the· 
South in JUSt six seasons in South Bend. Tht• 
now retired mentor had a line 17-'i-lledgerin 
these games. but eight of the win~ were by a touchdown or less. Thus, the nature of the contests increased the pressure and anxiety among fans. 
Devine's first journey south took place in 1975 when he took his team w Dean Smith (no, he's not a football coach too) country to face North Carolina. A miracle rally led by then youthful sophomore joe Montana (an HO-yard TD pass to Ted Burgmeier with I :03 left) gave ND a 21-14 victory. The next season only a .Jimmy Browner interception saved a 
13-6 win at South Carolina. And ofcourse 
there was the trip to Clemson in 1976. A 
bomb scare in Devine's hotel room the night 
before the game, and a block thrown by an 
oftkial on Clemson's first touchdown that 
would have made any offensive line coach 
proud, were just two ofthe abnormal 
occurrences of that weekend. 
The less than hospitable treatment at Georgia Tech was resurrected in 1976 when the YellowJackets upset Notre Dame 23-14 and the Georgia Tech players and fans were less than gracious in doing so. The Irish did not forget the treament the next season in South Bend and ran up the score in a 69-14 extinction of Pepper Rogers' team. 
That ill feeling with the YellowJackets festered over the summer and in Notre Dame's victory in 197H in Atlanta, what might be the ugliest scene in Notre Dame football history occurred. I was at the game and could not believe my eyes as Y.agas Ferguson was pelted with icc and fish (for the "mackerel snappers" as Notre Dame players are called in Atlanta)afer scoringa late TD in a 38-21 Notrt• Dame win. 
The heaving offins continued and soon, the Notre Dame players had to abandon their own sideline. Devine was a primary target as he was about as popular m Atlama a!> Herschel Walker is in Somh Bend. The players 
surrounded Devine as police slowly (they 
appeared to be enjoying the fray) ended the 
problem. It appeared the game would end 
right there with a couple of minutes left, but 
•

finally Pepper Rogers went over to his student section to calm the wolves. He finally realized his football program was being embarrassed on Notre Dame's national replay network. 
In 1979 Devine had to face four teams from the South. He split the ti>ur contests, but one, a 40-1 H loss at Tennessee, was tht· worst defeat ofhis career. Later that season Clemson downed the Irish at Notre Dame, 16-10. clemson didn't win the Civil War that day, but iP the eyes ofTiger fans some justice had been won. 
That same year, only 42 seconds remained ot: the ND Stadium clock when a 14-yard R1.1sty Lisch-to-Dean Masztak touchdown pass and Pete Holohan's two-point conversion reception beat South Carolina, IH-1 7. 
Tight contests continued last year as the Irish upset Alabama in their own bat:kyard, '>ut suftcrred a bizarre losing tie to Georgia Tech, and the loss for the National 1.:hampionship to Georgia In the Sugar Bowl. 
Saturday, Gerry Faust, perhaps naive to the dt:termination dominating the minds of the LSU team at this moment, will charge his army out ofthe tunnel for the first time. He better navt• all his artillery ready because Notre Dame Stadium, players, religion and lore will motivate the Tigers to new heights. 
ll sounds unimaginable that a team could look past a conference rival and national power (Alabama) for a contest with an indt'pendent many miles away from home. Although they won't admit it to the press, LSU's players have been looking forward to tl-ti!> gaml· more than any otht·r in their careers since they signed their national letters-of· intent. 
Af!P+ *Ni t &S$ ltpiiELjW~JfJfiO 1 H*M"W*Mi' 5 '4IGWti( e iPiii \ wwmm~ 

The Irish Extra -I.SU Saturday, September 12, 1981 -page 12 
I 
Jimmy The Greek, the man whose line we all pick against, had a fine week. His 6-4 record in games listed in The Observer was highlighted by two picks he hit right on the nose. Michael Ortman Chris Needles Mike Olenik Kelly Sullivan Gary Grassey Mark HannukselaBill Marquard Skip DesjardinSports Editor Sports Writer Sports Writer Sports Writer Sports Writer SportsWriter SportsWriter Asst. Sports



5-3-2, .600 5-3-2..600 . 5-3-2, .600 4-4-2, .500 4-4-2, .500 4-4-2, .500 3-5-2, .400 2-6-2, .300 
MICHIGAN ST. over Illinois by 20 Spartans lilini Spartans Spartans lllini Spartans lllini II lin I 
OH 10 STATE over Duke by 20 Buckeyes Buckeyes Buckeyes Buckeyes Buckeyes Buckeyes Buckeyes Buckeyes
GEORGIA over California by 17 Bulldogs Bulldogs Bears Bulldogs Bulldogs Bulldogs Bears Bulldogs
Indiana over NORTHWESTERN by 14 Hoosiers Hoosiers Wildcats Hoosiers Hoosiers 
Hoosiers Hoosiers Hoosiers Nebraska over lOW A bJ 16 Huskers Hawkeyes Huskers Huskers Hawkeyes Huskers Huskers Huskers Michisan over W ISCO SIN by 19 Badgers Wolverines Badgers Wolverines Wolverines Wolverines 
Wolverines Badgers

MISS URI over Arml by 21 Tigers Tigers Tigers Tigers Tigers Tigers Tigers TigersOre~on over KANSA by 1 Ducks Ducks Ducks Jayhawks Ducks Jayhawks Jayhawks DucksNO RE DAME over LSU by 14 Irish Irish Irish Irish Irish Irish Irish
Irish 

Stanford over PURDUE by 1 Boilers Cardinals Cardinals Cardinals Cardinals Cardinals Boilers Boilers 
ALABAMA over Goeryia Tech by 24 Tide Tide Tide Tide Tide Tide 
Tide Tide 

S. CAROLINA over M ssissip/ii by 6 Cocks Cocks Cocks Cocks Cocks Cocks
Cocks Cocks
FLO RIDA ST. over Memphis t. by 22 Seminoles Seminoles Seminoles Seminoles Seminoles Seminoles
Tigers Seminoles 
USC over Tennessee bt 19 Trojans Trojans 

Trojans Trojans Trojans Vols Trojans TrojansUCLA over ARIZONA y 8 Bruins Bruins Bruins BruinsBruins Bruins Bruins Bruins
BYU over Air Force by 26 Cougars Cougars Cougars Cougars Cougars Cougars
1-Cougars Cougars 
I 
l I 


