SMC endorsement -page 6

' ' ' 


WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 18,1981

VOL. XV, NO. 94 an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and saint mary's 
Board accepts changes ·in strip search policy 
By JOHN M. HIGGINS 
Senior Stuff Reporter 
The South Bend Board of Public Safety yesterday accepted police departmental changes recom­mended by the investigator of the recent strip search of eight Saint Mary's students. 
The report recommends that departmental policy concerning the search of prisoners be clarified and prohationary officers he more thoroughly trained and closely su­pervised. 
The investigator, Board Assis­tant Rohert Potvin, reiterated the city administration's stand that the incident resulted from inadequate instruction oft he fe m:1le prohation­ary officer who conducted the search -and not from tlaws in departmental policy. 
Potvin's report states that"there is no indication that the recruit had ever been instructed as to how strip searches were to be conducted." 
According to the report, unwrit­ten departmental policy prohibits strip searches conducted at the city jail unless an officer helievcs a prisoner is concealing weapons, drugs or evidence. 
"Strip searches are not a matter of normal course at the South Bend jail," Potvin said. "Searches of female prisoners arc usually only a pat-down search." 
The officer who conducted the search had formerly worked at the visitor center at the Indiana State Prison in Michigan City where she searched visitors, according to the report. While she did not search prisoners, she was aware that prisoners were strip searched. 
The report further states that the station commander on duty at the time of the arrests did not instruct the officer on how thoroughly the prisoners were to be searched. 
"Part of the problem is the (South Bend) on-the-job training program," Potvin said. "She was not given specific instructions as to what was expected of her. When you consider what police work in­volves, it's a critical failure right there." 
The Board agreed to adopt recommended changes in jail operations that deals with the search of prisoners. The amend­ment clarifies the circumstances under which a prisoner may be strip 
See POLICY, page 4 





Notre Dame Press prints scholarly works 
By DAVID RICKABAUGH 
Staff Repoter 

"There are people whoknow Notre Dame not for its football and bas­ketball teams, but for the University Press." stated Jim Langford, director of the Univ.ersity of Notre Dame Press. "We do for the academic side of 
S2WC 
Candidates stress involvetnent 
By CATHY DOMANICO 
News Staff 
Unity and involvement highlight the major aims of all the platforms for the Saint Mary's College class elections scheduled for tomorrow. 
According to Marianne Callan, candidate for Senior Class Presi­dent, "The only way to unify the class is to get involved in social and academic activities." The Callan platform states that the key to in­volvement is effective communica­tion. Seniors will he notified of any upcoming events with a monthly newsletter that will be sent to all seniors, including those who live off campus. 
Included on the Callan ticket for the positions of vice president secretary, and treasurer are Gay Harless, Marybeth Brennan, and Molly Thompson. 
These candidates do possess ex­perience in various phases of SMC student government. 
The competition for senior class officers-Mary Beth Rittenhouse, Beth Armstrong, Bobbi McCarthy and Colleen O'Brien-also plans to channel their talents towards unification. Class trips, Senior Ring Day mass, and Senior class halftime shows with Notre Dame are a few of the objectives they believe can unify the Class of '82. 
This ticket also has SMC govern­ment experience. The platform contends, "our experience has 
taught us how to cope with the ad­
ministration." 

Karin Fraboni of the Class of83 said she would like to see "the junior class identified as a class." The Fraboni platform includes compiling a book with the names, addresses and phone numbers of all junior students. Running on the 
Fraboni ticket are Clare 
Devere_aux, Mary Laue and 
Maureen Toepp. These women 
also have been active in SMC stu­
dent government. 

Also vying for the position of 
Junior class officers are Carole 
Dziminski, Beth Bunker, Cat­
herine Burns and Anne Clark. They 
are stressing diversity on their plat­
form and hope to plan "something 
for everyone." They aim to 
promote more activities on the 
SMC campus. These canditates 
also boast SMC government ex­
perience. 

The third ticket for junior class 
officers includes Nancy Rodgers, 
Mary Beth Boldt, Sarah Clarke, 
and Ann Flaherty. According to the 
Rodgers platform, communication 
and the promotion of unique ac­
tivities on the SMC campus will 
create the spirit of unity and in­
volvement. Possibly ideas for the 
upcoming year include a class mass 
and brunch; fireside chats, and out­
door concerts. 

Candidates for the Class of '84 
•include Kathleen Murphy, Elaine Hoeler, Denise Drake, and Maureen Hughs. Their focus is on cultural and social activities includ­ing a correspondance board for stu­dents studying abroad, and a weekend ski trip. The Murphy tick­et does include Freshman class ex­
perience. .­See CANDIDATES, page S 
the University what the sports teams do for the fame of Notre Dame." 
Located on the fifth tloor of the Memorial Library, the Press employs approxiamately a dozen people. The staff, despite the small size, reviews hundreds of manuscripts, and selects only 30-35 of the best for publica­
tion.  
Langford described the Press as a publisher of books which, "have  WEDNESDAY·=:===:=:=:=:=:=:  
high quality scholarship and low commercial appeal. Books that are considered to have low potential  :==========:::;:;::=sFOCUS  
for  commercial  success  will  be  

printed by the Press, we are interested in the quality of the work, not the commercial appeal." 
"At this time," said Langford, "commercial publishers are interested in books that are immediately disposable, books which have good short­run sales, but are out of print after six months." 
The University of Notre Dame Press will p"ublish works which are dis­continued by the major publishing houses and are "still important to the academic community." 
In 1977 the Press obtained the rights to publish Mayday, an allegorical 
See PRESS, pageS 
In the Phillippines 
Pope defends human rights 
MANILA, Philippines (AP) ­Pope John Paul II, opening a six­day visit to the Philippines yester­day, told President Ferdinand E. Marcos there is no justification for human rights violations "even in exceptional situations." 
The pope arrived to the pealing of hundreds of church bells and a jubilant welcome by some 1.6 mil­lion Filipinos who packed the six­mile route into the city. 
In a televised speech at Malacanang presidential palace John Paul delivered what Vatican officials called his strongest state­ment ever in defense of human rights. 
Marcos, who lifted martial law a month ago but is still under fire for detention of political prisoners, dis­carded prepared remarks of welcome and in an emotional ex­temporaneous speech apologized for what he called "petty and small" church-state differences. 
"Forgive us, holy father," Marcos said. "Now that you are here, we resolve we shall wipe out ail contlicts and set up... a a society that is harmonious to attain the ends of God." 
The pope's trip to Asia's only predominantly Roman Catholic country has brought an uneasy truce between the Marcos govern­ment and the church, which has been a leading critic of human rights violations. 
John Paul said basic rights can­not be curtailed even for "legitimate concern for the security of a nation, as demanded by the common good." Vatican of­ficials said the statement went beyond his defense of the rights of individuals during his visit to Brazil last summer. 
When he left the palace and arrived at the residence of the Vatican's diplomatic representa­tive, a young woman relative of a political prisoner surged through a crowd and handed the pope a letter telling him that 28 political prisoners are on hunger strikes to protest their detention. 
The Marcos government has in­sisted its tight, 16-year-old grip on Philippine society is justified on grounds of national security and the need to hasten econom1c development. 
But the pope said that when there is a conflict between security needs and basic rights, the government "cannot claim to serve the com­mon good when human rights are not safeguarded." 
Sources said the text of the pope's statement was available to Marcos before it was delivered and most likely prompted the president to discard his prepared remarks about the history of the church in the Philippines, where 90 percent of the 49 million population is Roll)an Catholic. 

Wednesday, February 18, 1981-page 2 


News Brie/§
c============*==============================~ 
by The Observer and The Associated Press 
An Italian stuntman was killed yesterday while simulating a bobsled accident for a scene in a James Bond movie, police reported. They said three other stuntmen in the sled received minor injuries. An accident on the same Olympic course cost the life of American bobsledder Jim Morgan, of Saranac Lake, N.Y., during the world four-man bobsled championship here Feb. 8. Police reported that Paolo Rigon, 23, suffered fatal injuries when an iron lever of the sled pierced his chest. The stuntmen were in the movie For Your Eyes Only which is being shot in this win"ter resort. -AP 
Franjo Tudjman, 59, a retired general of the Yugoslav partisan army and a historian, went on trial yesterday in Zagreb on charges of spreading hostile propaganda and slander against Yugos­lavia in foriegn news media, sources reported. Last spring during the final illness of the President Josip Broz Tito, a West German TV crew was stopped at Zagreb airport and film from an interview with Tudjman was impouned by the police. Sources said the film is among evidence the state will produce at the trial. Tudjman, who fought during World War II with the Communist partisans and reached the rank of general, was purged from Yugoslavia's army and Communist party during the nationalist upheaval in Croatia in the 1970s. -AP 
Turkish martial law authorities have told 93 rightist and leftist extremists who fled the country after the military takeover five months ago to return home for prosecution by March 19 or face loss of citizenship, informed sources said yesterday. Authorities have said that extremists living abroad had "indulged in activity designed to divide and destroy the Turkish nation and the state even in overseas countries." Military authorities have rounded up an estimated 30,000 suspected extremists and terrorists since the Sept. 12 military coup. Interrogations of thousands of those detained are continuing, sources said.-AP 
King Hogatotan, with a mask over his consecrated features and a stomach full of spices, rests in a hollowed tomb in Kansas City, Kansas. He is a pharaoh of a class ofgifted junior high school students who mummified the pig fetus as part of a class study. Th~ project began last month when the Arrowhead Junior High School pupils and their teacher began researching Egyptian history, focusing on mummification and mystical powers supposed­ly inherent in pyramids. Each student assumed the name, and osten­sibly the powers, of an Egyptian god and then began a laborious project that culminated last week with the entombment of Hogatotan, the "unborn king." The students constructed an IS­inch high pyramid, meticulously slanting the sides at 43-degree angles to invite mystical powers and to induce mummification of the pyramid's contents, as Egyptian mythology suggested . A sarcop­hagus, or coffin, was prepared. its exterior was ornamental, its inte­
rior serenely posh.-AP 
A young man wearing aT-shirt with the slogan "I Love You" dashed toward Pope John Paul II in the stadium at Santo Tomas University yesterday and got a papal embrace after police grabbed him. "The boy shouted that he wanted to kiss the pope," reported AP photographer Andy Hernandez, who was standing 10 feet away. "The pope saw it and walked toward him and embraced him. The students were shouting, 'Harmless! Harmless! Harmless! " Police said the youth was unarmed and a Roman Catholic church leader said, "He just wanted to kiss the pope." The incident, televised nationally, appeared to some viewers to be an attempted attack on the pontiff, and they said they thought the young man had a knife. Police grabbed him only a few feet from the 60-year-old pope, who had just finished speaking to tens of thous11nds of cheer­ing students on the second day of his six-day visit to the Philippines. John Paul left the stage as plain-clothesmen hustled the youth away, and a student leader urged the throng to sing. Thousands of.voices filled the a~r with a Filipino love song, "Dahil sa Iyo," which means "Because of You," as the waving pope entered an open-top limousine. -AP 
A student strike in Poland's second largest city went into its 27th day today and strike action was reported at universities in eight other cities as talks continued on charter provisions for student um­ons. Leaders of the 4,000 to 6,000 striking university students in Lodz warned earlier that all colleges and univ,ersities would be struck today unless the government registered their independent student union by midnight Monday. As the deadline passed, student leaders in Lodz said strike "actions" began in Torun, Szczecin, Warsaw, Poznan, Rzeszow, Krakow, Opole, and Gliwice. The government radio said Higher Education Minister Janusz Gorsfi reported agreement had been reached with the Lodz students on the election of university authorities and guarantees for the univer­sities' independence "on matters of science, teaching and inter­organizational questions." He said agreement had not been reached on the statute for the students' union. Warsaw Radio said the government wanted the charter to include a pledge to operate in accordance with the Polish constitution and opposed the students' proposal that a strike could be called by a union-committee without consulting all students. Student leaders said they agreed to a clause expressing allegianc,e to the constitution and recognizing the leadinl! role of the Communist Party. -AP 
Cloudy and very mild during the afternoori with a zo percent chance of showers. High in the mid to upper 50s. Mostly cloudy tonight and continued mild. Low near 40. Partly cloudy and cooler tomorrow. High in the upper 40s.-AP 

Jelly Beans, Alligators ... 


Jelly beans, if you perchance have not noticed, have become The Candy to munch on. My dorm's food sales has begun selling them, and the rack in the Huddle's deli is well stocked with bags of the colorful beans. Confectionaries nationwide are reaping sweet profits by boasting a rainbow offlavors-encompass­ing everything from the traditional to the extraor­dinaire-such as strawberry daquiri and pin a colada. 
The Reagans, you see, told the press they love jelly beans and they fill all the candy dishes in the White House with them. Jelly beans, those once seasonal candies that graced Easter baskets and then were quite cheap come May, are fast becoming chic to eat -regardless of sea!;on. 
They are, however, just one of three new far­reaching fads. 
Jelly beans are following topsiders, shetland sweaters, Izods, Oxford shirts, and the rest of the offi­cial garb formally mentioned in The Preppy Hand­book and informally observable on campus at any given time on any given day. There is security in preppiness, for the prep scene may be likened to a group of parochial school children all wearing uni­forms. The Izod alligator has come to epitomize the preppy movement, and 
J. C. Penney is capitalizing on that critter with its own quette. The woman was fired for consistent absence. 
After the newspapers reported this bit of expo!\ition, the appointee "quit" before assuming the office. A polite gesture, methinks. 
There is nothing wrong with etiquette, but such ex­aggerated emphasis on the Amy Vanderbilt approach to government is pathetic when one examines the soaring inflation rate and the formidable number of those unemployed. But this emphasis on The Right Way To Do Things might shed light on prep, jelly beans and most importantly-the shape the eighties are taking. 
There is obviously a great deal of psychology in fads. There must be something to a fad if it is to attract enough people to be labelled a fad and then last long enough to maintain fad status. These three fads-'-the 
--' jelly beans, the prep and the 
etiquette do reveal much 
about the current American 

fox, modeled after the al­mindset. ligator and designed for Perhaps people are those who would like to ap­scared. pear preppy without paying We are opting for the es­a preppy price. tablished, the secure. So 
Two gentlemen in we are wearing uniforms 
Chicago, according to one and eating jelly beans -a Tribune columnist are in far cry from the sixties and the process of writing an seventies. 
anti-Preppy handbook. The Attempting to find a contents of their book secure middle ground be­remain undisclosed. Being tween the psychadelic anti-Preppy, however, may sixties and the "me" mirror the preppy move­seventies, we are dealing ment by simply becoming with the eighties by doing 
the next fashion fad. 
Along with jelly beans and prep comes the third fad -an emphasis on etiquette and social grace, which has been brought to light by none other than Mrs. Reagan herself. The First Lady is projecting the image of the polished debutante-one well-versed in etiquette and The Way to manage a house and enter­tain. Any social dilemmas she might encounter, she can simply refer to her social secretary. This polite­ness does qualify for fad status since it is catching. 
Just last week, Chicago's Mayor Byrne appointed a Secretary of Etiquette. Mrs. Byrne is obviously pick­ing up on Mrs. Reagan's lead: no other m~or cities have" Secretaries of Etiquette." The woman selected for the job allegedly managed one North Shore School of Etiquette. The particularly humorous facet of the entire fiasco is that the local Chicago papers ran ar­ticles Saturday saying that the wpman Mayor Byrne appointed to the position was a former $8,700 a year gift-shop employee. Her employer, the gift shop owner, never heard her even mention a school of eti­
,-. 
things correctly and 
properly. 

Perhaps present interna­tional tensions both political and economical are simply too much to bear. Maybe this is why a major metropolitan mayor salaries someone at $35,000 a year to arrange the seating at formal dinners. Perhaps people are buying jelly 5eans as a symbol of their ad­miration for Ronald Reagan-a living example of the Horatio Alger myth. Is that what we need in the eighties-the ability to believe in Horatio Alger? 
Perhaps it is an unusually bleak job market that makes college students wear alligators who seem to proclaim "I'm above all this." Perhaps it is a distrac­tion frof!! the world's real problems to turn one's thoughts to the elegance of etiquette. 
Whatever the reason, these three fads do make for interesting musing. Usually, sociolgists do not ex­amine a decade until it has passed. It is much more interesting, however, to reflect on a decade while im­mersed in it. Besides, who can tell how long jelly beans and alligators will last? 
~The_Ohs.erY-er_ Design Editor ........... Deirdre Murphy Design Assistants .............. Ray lnglin Greg Swiercz Layout Staff .............. Lisa Bontempo Typesetter ................... Bruce Oakley News Editor ............... Margie Brassil Copy Editors ....... Mary Fran Callahan Valerie Evans Sports Copy Edito"s ...... Gary Grassey Ed Konrady Systems Control ............ Marty Hynes ND Day Editor ............. Molly Woulfe SMC Day Editor ............. Cece Baliles Ad Design ................... Woody & Joe Photographer ........... Linda Shanahan {  
The Observer (USPS 598 920) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is published by the students of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $20 per year ($1 0 per semester) by writing The Observer, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved.  


MISSIONHURST -An International Missionary Community of Sisters, Brothers. and Priests. 
Wednesday, February 18, 1981-page 3 
The Observer 

Hareider blames US for West Germany economy 
By JEFF HARRINGTON 
News Staff 
Wolfram Hanreider of the Uni­versity of California last night con­tended that "irresponsible management on the part of the United States" for West Ger­many's current troubled economic situation. 
Hanreider, an expert on German political science, addressed a capacity crowd in Hayes-Healey Auditorium on "West Germany as No. 2: The Political Economy of the Federal Republic of Ger­many." 
Citing high U.S. expenditures and capital outflow since the 1960's, Hanreider said that the United States encouraged a break­down of the Breton-Woods monetary system which totally col­lapsed with Nixon's "formal de­coupling" of the dollar-gold ratio in 1971. 
Since the Western policy of the United States centered on a "complimentary-type relation­ship," U.S. expenditures abroad had to be matched by international funds, he said. He added that Ger­many was forced to resort to a "floating rates system" to coun­teract this increase in the interna­tional monetary system. 
Hanreider further labeled Germany's monetary policy as an "instrument of power" which should be "viewed and evaluated in a political context. The Germans have always used economic lan-
House committee approves Indianapolis stadium tax 
INDIANAPOLIS (AP) 

Spurred by the prospect of$30 mil­
lion in private gifts, a House sub­
committee approved a bill Tuesday 
authorizing a Marion County food 
and beverage tax to finance the rest 
of the $6 million tab. for a domed 
stadium in downtown lndianaoolis. 
The 6-1 vote by the economic policy subcommittee of the House Ways and Means Committee came despite complaints that the proposed tax was inequitable and would hurt the working people of Marion County. 
"If this is such a good idea, why can't the private sector fund it entirely," asked Henry Bayt, as­sessor of Indianapolis' Center Township. 
Bayt pointed to pledges of $25 million from Lilly Endowment and $5 million from the Krannert C T haritable Trust for the proposed domed stadium. He suggested that Indianapolis Mayor William H. Hudnut, an enthusiastic backer of 
the stadium, solicit c~rporate ancl 


·t:henbseaer. 
SOME POSITIONS STILL AVAILABLE 
OPE11 !0 ALL ND-SMO S!UDER!S 
*Managing llditor *features Editor *Editorials Editor
*SMC Executive Editor *Production Manager
*Photo Editor 
Direct Inquiries and applications to Observer Office DIADLIKE: fRIDAY **ALL PAYIKG POSI!IOllS* * 


individual contributions to pay for the facility. 
"If the mayor would ask me, I'd give him a check for $100. That's how bad I want this stadium," said Bayt. 
Green Wall 
concludes SCFS 
The Social Concerns Film Senes 
concludes this week with The Green Wall. Green Wall is the director's autobiographical version of the Robinson Cruesoe story. A young family decides to exchange the pressures of urban life in Lima for a life in the jungle. 
Showings will be tonight and 
tomorrow  at  7  and  10  p.m.  in (photo by Linda Shanahan)  
Washington  Hall.  Admi ssion  is  
free.  

----------------~------~~~~~~ 
1tf~ N-~ 6f, MMY'S t'R«<OL., ~S= 
w, 2.J, z~, 0 'LAUG 1-\U N AUO, 5:00P.M.. 
1\Ct<elS ARe*z.so, RES~110NS: 2e4--4-17 
guage to express political power." 
Hanreider emphasized Ger­many's shift from military power to economic and monetary matters in the 1960's, noting that Germany has gained "political clout" through the effective use of economic power. He added, however, that these "practical gains that came with economic payoff" were not enough to offset Germany's political woes. 
Wednesday, February 18, 1981-page4
The Observer 

SPRING 



BREAK '81! 


Ocean Front Hotel Rooms in Lauderdale This Spring Break? 
Student Suntrips offers: e As low as $1 39/person /wk 
• All motels conveniently 
located on the strip eumited space available 
For Reservation Info. call toll-free 1-800-848-9540 In Ohio 1-800-282-3432 
ARRANGEMENTS BY STUDENT SUNTRIPS. INC 





Reagan opposes pay hike 
. 

WASHINGTON (AP) -Presi­dent Reagan informed Congress yesterday that he now opposes a 
16.8 percent catch-up pay hike, which he previously had unofficial­ly supported, for Cabinet mem­bers, congressmen and other top government officials. 
Before leaving office last month, then-President Jimmy Carter had recommended an immediate 16.8 percent raise for some 35,000 high­ranking feder-al officials, whose salaries have been frozen since 1977, and had called for a general 
5.5 percent pay increase for all 
nyone mterest position of COURSE 


EVALUATION BOOK EDITOR should contact Don Schmid at 8764 or 
leave a message with the Student Government secretary on the 2nd Fl. LaFortune b 20 


WE PUT IT ALL TOGETHER. 
A challenging future and continuing contribution to the · growing health care industry ... a few of the piecen that make up a career with American Hospital Supply Corporation. We provide our people with unlimited opportunity and potential in 22 divisions located around the world. American Hospital Supply Corporation realized over $2 billion in sales last year and as our growth continues, so do our career opportunities. 
We need people in the following areas: 
Accounting/Finance/Operations Sales/Distribution/Marketing 
Learn how you can fit into the picture when our representative is on campus: 
March 4th and 5th (Sign-up sheets will be posted the week of February 23rd) 
We are an equal opportunity employer mlf 
American Hospital Supply Corporation 
• 

government civilian workers including federai judges. 
As Congress opened hearings on Carter's recommendations on pay increases, Reagan sent word that he now opposes the 16.8 percent portion, but made no mention of the 5.5 percent measure. 
Although Reagan had given his unofficial approval of the pay proposals, the president now opposes the plan "in the light of the economic conditions," said White House press secretary James S. Brady. 
A White House spokesman said the government would save $91.5 million this fiscal year from the move. 
The plan, however, remains before Congress and probably will be voted on. But it is considered unlikely that it will be approved without the president's support. 
Brady, who conceded he had secretly hoped the raise would go through since it also affects top White House aides, said there was "a lot of sympathy to the whole compensation issues in keeping people in the government." For that reason, he said Reagan may look at the issue before 1984, when the next report is due from a com­misson on pay levels. 
• • • Policy 
continuedfrom page I 

searched and outlines procedures for co~ducting the search. 
The amendment legalizes in writing the "unwritten policy" that prisoners may be searched when it is believed that the prisoner is concealing weapons, drugs, or evidence. It also provides for the strip search of any prisoner who is to enter the general prison popula­tion. 
The amendment further specifies 
that strip searches are authorized 
only with the prior approval of the 
station commander. 

The report also suggests that a more comprehensive traintng program be developed for police recruits. "Training must ensure that recruits understand their work, what duties they are required to perform and how to ,perform their tasks properly," the report states. 
Finally, the report calls for an im­provement of supervisory tech­niques of probationary officers. "The recruit shouldn't have been put in that position without being told specifically," Hill com­mented. "We really need to take some direct action as far as the su­pervision and training of recruits." 
Hill reaffirmed the necessity for strip searches in some situations. "We would never espouse a policy that said there would never be any strip searches," he said, "but the policy and its implementation do have to be reasonable." 
Potvin said that the officer had conducted strip searches on at least four occasions. Hill, however, con­tended that no one in the police department was aware of any of the searches. 
"We have no indication that anyone knew about the other searches," he said. "We haven't had some off-the-record policy that's been going on for two or three years. I have no indication that there is any effort in the depart-. ment to protect anyone concerning the other searches." 
Potvin expressed the apologies of the Board to the students and "the institution" of Saint Mary's College. HiU apologized on behalf of Mayor Roger Parent calling the 
"The president-elect was asked, when Carter sent them up, if we would disapprove," Brady said. "We said, 'No, we wouldn't.' But in keeping with his reduction plans he feels it would be inappropriate for the federal executives, the Congress and the judiciary to have pay increases." 
Carter had called for boosting Cabinet salaries from $69,630 year­ly to about $84,000, while congres­sional salaries would go from $60,662 to about $74,000. 
Carter had said money. is not a main attraction for federal service but "compensation levels have fal­len below the point at which they provide adequate monetary recognition of the complexity and importance of top federal jobs. The financial sacrifice demanded of top federal officials is becoming far too great." 
Federal trial and appeals court judges, as well as justices of the Supreme Court, would receive on­ly a 5.5 percent pay hike under the Carter proposal. 
The House Post Office and Civil Service Committee nad just ended its first hearing on Carter's pay proposal when Reagan's opposi­tion was announced by the White House. 
incident an "unfortunate situa­tion." 
The strip search occurred after the eight students were arrested for underage drinking inside Corby's Tavern, 1026 Corby Street. A Corby's bartender was also ar­rested for sale of alcohol to a minor. 
Yesterday's scheduled arraign­ment of the bartender in Circuit Court was continued until Feb. 24. The students were to be arraigned this morning. 
Hill was uncertain if the incident would result in litigation against the city. "We certainly could take the position that there is the potential for litigation," he said. "I've been criticized for acknowledging that there was an error made. But we're just trying to be candid. 
"We're not making an admission of liability. We are just trying to respond to the problem," he said. 

Augusta holds room lottery 
Saint' Mary's sophomores and juniors interested in living in Augusta next semester must attend three meetings before entering the special lottery for rooms. All meetings are at 4 p.m. in the Augusta lounge, on Feb.22, March 
I, and March 8. 
An open house will also be held 
in Augusta this Sunday from 2-4 
p.m. for students interested in viewing rooms. 
Students securing rooms for 
friends abroad or on leave must at­
tend the meetings for their friends. 
There will be no exceptions made 
for absences. 
The room lottery will be 7 p.m. 
on March 9, and room picks the 
same time the next day. 
For more information, call Ginny at 4487 or Sr. Karol at 4696. 

--~~----------~-~~ ----­

The Observer 

WASHINGTON (AP)-Presi­dent Reagan will fully implement the Iranian hostage agreement, senators were told yesterday, and former Secretary of State Edmund 
S. Muskie said the arrangement will not encourage further ter­rorism. 
Muskie and two of his one-time deputies told House and Senate committees that America should honor the agreement with Iran that freed 52 U.S. hostages Jan. 20 after 444 days of captivity. 
"We should fulfill the agreement because we are a great power with interests ... in keeping our word," Muskie told the Senate Foreign Relations Committee. 
U.S. negotiator of the deal, also told the senators that Iran achieved none of its objectives. 
Christopher said Iran failed to win a U.S. apology for past U.S.­Iran relations, got no U.S. ransom for the hostages, got no U.S. help in the Iran-Iraq war and never ac­hieved its demand for U.S. return of the late Shah Mohammad Reza Pahlavi. 
Muskie and Christopher said America must keep its word, not simply out of principle but to keep faith with Algeria, West Germany, 
England,  Switzerland  and  other  
countries  that  aided the  negotia­ 
tions.  

Christopher also supplied fresh figures on what Iran did get out of the hostage deal. 
Of the $8 billion in Iranian assets turned over to a Bank of England escrow account, Christopher said, Iran has received $2.9 billion. 
He said $3.7 billion was used to pay off Iranian d~bts to U.S. banks and $1.4 billion is still in escrow to pay amounts remaining in dispute by the banks. 
Of the some $4 billion in Iranian assets that the United States has not yet released, Christopher said, $1 billion will be placed in an ac­count for paying U.S. claims against Iran. 
Wednesday, February 18, 1981 -page 5 
• • • Press 

continued from page 1 
fable by William Faulkner which he wrote in 1926 while at work on The Sound and the Fury. Faulkner hand-lettered the book, illustrated and bound it. He then gave the only copy to a woman whom he loved and also dedicated it to her. The book was published in limited facsimile edition in 1977 and later in trade edition. 
The Press curently has a contact with Eli Wiesel, who wrote the 1978 best 'seller Four Hasidic Masters and Their Struggle Against Melancholy, for his next three works. 
Langford thinks that the Press' care for its authors and their books con­tributes to its success. "We simply don't publish books we are not en­thusiastic about." He explained, "We give individual attention to editing, and to promotion, review, and advertising programs. More importantly, we stay with a book, and continue to promote it after it is published, which other presses don't always do." 
Langford stated that the books printed by the Press take a good look at 
social issues. Most of these books deal with the humanities, ethnic 
studies, philosophy, theology, literature and political science. 
The University of Notre Dame Press has become one of the most in fluential campus presses in the country. In a New York Times Boo. Review, Notre Dame ranked with university presses such as Harvaru John Hopkins, and Princeton. Langford added, "We've had enougl reviews of our books printed last year alone to fill a 300 page volume." 
Recently, the Press formed an alumni book club, which informs th, 
alumni of what the Press has to offer. The book club lets the alumni keep in 
touch about books that moght be interesting to them, what books the pres~ 
publishes and other books published by other publishers, and it makes it 
easy for the alumni to order them. 
The Press is waiting for two million dollars from the endowment fund. 
Langford said that the endowment coupled with the book club would give 
the University of Notre Dame Press the financial backing needed to 
become one of the top university presses in the country. 
Notre Dame became a serious and professional university press in 1961 
when it recieved financial support from the Ford Foundation and hired 
Emily Schossberger as director, 

Langford came to Notre Dame in 1974 after working for Doubleday and 
the University of Michigan Press. 

Reflecting on the role of the press at Notre Dame Langford commented, 
"In some ways we are better known elsewhere than in our own back­
yard." 


Sen. Charles H. Percy, R-111., chairman of the committee, an­nounced that Secretary of State AleJtander Haig had told senators Reagan has decided to "implement fully the agreement." 
"They obviously will adjudicate any legal questions," Percy said. "It would be my hope that we will take any international questions to the world court." 
Muskie said the deal maintains 
U.S. honor and said he and his negotiators accomplished "our ob­jective not to make any arrange­ment to encourage terrorism in the future." 
That is because "tran paid dear­ly" for the hostage' crisis, Muskie testified. 
He said Iran was isolated by the world community for taking the hostages in violation ofinternation­al rules of behavior, and.IGst the use 
., .-..~.-.~ billion ia,as,$etdrozcn by 
' ·~ ....Piesident Jimmy Carter. ·:~~:;~:.A~ in return. Iran achieved ~.~.,.'of its objec.tive9," Muskie satd,'flnternatlonally and domesti­~aUy/the United States emerged stronger and Iran emerged !llleaker." 
Former Deputy Secretary of Stat~ Warren Christopher, chief :< 
Authorities seek driver ofgreen car in killings 
ATLANTA (AP)-Authorites want to que~tion a man in a green car who was seen near where the body of one of Atlimta's 17 slain children was found last week, a police spokesman said Monday. 
Two employees who worked at the office park where the body of 11-year-old Patdck Baltazar was discovered. Friday said they saw a man nearby whia)hey arrived ear­ly in the mo~·l'll* ·said Chuck Johnson, a spojtesman for the De Kalb County police. 
"At that time ef the mouiag the 
parking lot . ·not c(owded," 
Johnson ~Q~isee a car 
in the s 'bbd)iiisfound 
in, it · triggers your 
memory.' 

Johnso111·.s-. man was not a 

, ....,..... a ••, to question 
him and h~Mifhe saw anything 
suspicous," ~e:.~()-. 

Baltazar, wiJGdfsappeared about 
a week before his ~ody was found, had been asphyxiated, and was one of eight vvictims who died that way, police said. 
Johnson said the two employees were working with police artists who hoped to have a composite sketch completed by Tuesday. 
But the sketch may not be help­ful, because the two employees did not really get a close look at the man, Johnson said. "It was from across the parking lot." 
Another body found on Friday was identified Sunday as 11-year­old Jeffery Mathis, who became the 17th black child found .slain in the 
Atlanta area in the pas~·,1.,mon,u·~· 


, • • 
(.lontinuedfrom pa,~t>l 
Mary D.uvic, Heth Aisthorpe, 
Nancy Orr; and Sue Flynn, of the r'W..s f1f '84 ~ek to involve all sop­llomores. next yea• Their a)m is to ·ptao• al'w.dl diver~ fieJ cabinet to Sather n~w ideas Snid AislhNpe, "W~ want lo appe.:l to all of the of the interests of tl'le Sept::· nore class." Highli!!l'' · 1 their 11ew c,ahinet will be a ''!uderH f•·eba~k 
Commissioner w ·' will survey 
. ''~•';;{!,.,:., . reactions to C'\\~ts sponsored by the class orft4;· .They too have Freshman gote 'rn ell.~,_;ence. 
Bridget Dol · .athy·:Jellnings, Carol Me Ner 1 tl'd' Jant b.l!inen­weber, "kn~w;~j6b'we:~vying for is not an e~)i,oneda,U..'':'we are willing to give it· fill. we 'can.;; Their focus is on planning act.iv}ties that will "unite us as ·a class as well as tap us as individuals." A mini olympics has been planned for next year. The girls have experience in 1-lall Council. 
-~----------------­
Editorials 
Murphy for SBP 
The Observer endorses Eileen Murphy, Emmie Lopez, and Donna Perreault in tomorrow's Saint Mary's student government election. While the other two tickets in the race -Beth Makens, Anne Hulme, Pam Kelly; and Beth Mitchell, Ann Bourjaily, Vicki Pagnucci-are both well­qualified, we feel that the Murphy ticket has the most im-· aginative and most informed approach to student 
government at SMC. 
The Murphy platform concentrates on three areas.:--so­cial, academic and student life. It offers several innovative ideas to deal with these areas including a cooperative escort service with Notre Dame. Co-operation with the university 
across the street, in our opinion, can play an important role to the success of student government. This ticket also vows a new openess and responsiveness in order to improve stu­dent life in each area discussed in the platform. Its proposals to increase Volunteer Services, better utilize the SMC club house, and their pledge to lobby for use of the old SMC library as a social center make sense. 
The Mitchell ticket intends to make similar use of the old­library and echoes the familiar student government rhetoric to increase "student awareness." While they are ex­perienced, their approach is not as realistic as that of Murphy and their lack of a sophomore on their ticket raises the question of just who this group is representing. We at The Observer find it necessary for more than one class to be represented on a ticket in order to ensure that the student body, and not just one class, will be represented. Their promise to increase awareness and participation is noble, 
but ultimately difficult to implement. 
The Makens ticket, while blessed with progressive iqten­tions, is the least informed of the three slates. Though they echo the ideas of their opponents, they have not done their "homework" to the extent that the others have. Their proposals to improve the SMC social scene -more mid­week movies and a handbook on local restaurants and hotels -are thoughtful, but somewhat trite. 
Saint Mary's student government faces a crucial task in the upcoming semester -to procure part of the current SMC library for a student social center. The Observer feels that the Murphy-Lopez-Perreault ticket is best qualified to meet that goal and others. 
Doonesbury 
Garry Trudeau 
5H! THINKS fA.t; 5/KJIJt./?
I TAK£ fT 'ttJU'V/3 


Wednesday, February 18, 1981-page 6 
Outside Wednesday 
Reagan passes 1checkup' 
Thirty days down, 1430 to go. And he hasn't even blown up the world, at least not yet. So far, so good. Ronald Reagan has been in office a month and I haven't noticed any major change in my life, though I probably will this summer if I try to get a student loan. But otherwise, I guess Reagan's been okay, there's been no major screw-up, and he does seem sincere. Then again, no one can get into that much trouble in 30 days, so perhaps r m speaking too soon. But as a proud member of the campus' "left-leaning press" I will remain true to my party and give the new president his ~0-day check-up, with a liberal's thermometer. 
First of all, I have to define my impression of the term "liberal." It's definitely a bad word these days. But it is the term that society has assigned to those who have certain polical beliefs that lean toward concern lfor the poor 
and disadvantaged. But I  resent  
the  corruption  of  the  word  
"conservative"  by  the  right­ 

wing, because it implies that liberals are by nature not con­servative, and that this lack of right-wing belief is somehow morally inferior. It is ironic, be­cause in reality, liberals .are con­servatives, at least where the environment is concerned, be­cause they are traditionally more interested in conservation than are most right-wingers, who tend to be more liberal with the en­vironment and its use or exploita­tion, depending upon which side you are on, the liberal con­servative, or the conservative liberal. l might be normally called a liberal conservative, or a con­servative liberal because of my politics, but these are contradic­tions in terms, as one indicates the absence of the other. It's just like the word "gay," which any conservative person, right wing or otherwise, cannot use, because of its new social implications. I consider myself a conservative person, meaning that I am a "person who tends to preserve from injury or ruin," (who could also be called a coward, which right-wingers claim they are not) but I also think that there are things wrong with the status quo in this country, so I'm a liberal. But enough word play. 
In all seriousness, it is impor­tant to be aware of political beliefs and interpretations of those beliefs, especially in this day of political polarization. There is the potential for a serious rift be­tween the two political factions in America, and this rift could be potentially disastrous in these times of crisis. It is important that actions initiated by liberals or conservatives not be punitive or ideological for ideology's sake, 
Anthony  Walton's  Outside  
Wednesday  column  appears  
weekly  on  The  Observer's  

editorials page. 
because the current make-up of our government allows for the possible paralysis of the govern­ment and the country for no good reason. With the Republicans controlling the White House and the Senate; and the Democrats controlling the House, as well as predominating in state and local governments, it is easy to imagine a petty issue like the abolishment of some regulatory agency becoming a major showdown or test of wills between the two fac. tions. I think the Democrats should be intransigent on certain 
issues,  but  not  without  good  
reason,  and  the  right-wingers  
should  have  their  chance  to  

implement their policies, but thes~ implementations should not be in order to teach the Democrats a lesson or anything like that. 
On to Reagan. Watching Ron'llld Reagan the last month has been quite fascinating for me, be­cause once I realized that he had won, and that there was nothing I could do about it, I became anxious to see what he could do. Would he, immediately after being inaugurated, declare war on Iran? Would he somehow un­wwittingly provoke the Soviets? Would Nancy tear down the Lin­coln Wall? I was scared. Not that I'm not anymore. I am, but for very different reasons. Aside from his needless (in my view) in­sults to the Russians, he appears to be avoiding confrontations, as his dropping of the Iranian issue illustrates. The only thing that worries me in the area of foreign policy is that Reagan and the Rus­sians seem to be engaging in some sort of stare-down to test each other's wills. With all the mud­slinging and accusations that have been going back and forth lately, .I'm concerned that somewhere (such as El Salvador) might be used as a showdown arena for the two superpowers, involving this country in an imbroglio that it does not need. 
Reagan has not done anything surprising on the home front, giving carte blanche to the military. In my opinion this can only mean trouble. Besides being inflationary, throwing money at the military only accentuates its problems, rat_h_er than alleviating them. The military does not need all the high-tech equipment that its engineers can dream up. Who needs laser-guided anti-tank weapons in a guerilla war, which is the trend lately, and who needs a lot of equipment that is very sus­ceptible to breakdown? This was one of the lessons of Viet N am that has evidently not yet been digested, and I think Reagan is making a very fundamental mistake by not reassessing the military and its needs. But that is another article. 
I was basically satisfied, and in some cases pleasantly surprised by Reagan's Cabinet choices. I do not like James Watt at Interior, because this seems akin to letting 
, the fox guard the hen house,, and 
Anthony Walton 
the jury is still out on General Haig as Secretary of State. But basically Reagan has assembled a competent Cabinet. I am impressed and slightly scared by David Stockman, however, be­cause I agree with several of his budget cuts, but I wonder why the poor have to be cut first and not the rich. Stockman claims that he is just beginning and will soon get to paring the upper-class benefits in the budget also, but in my always-suspicious-of­Republicans-heart I have a feeling that Stockman is just talking, and that the underprivileged will be made to bear the brunt of the new austerity programs. (Perhaps that is where I disagree with right­
wingers, beca!lse I think govern­ment needs to be scaled down, but it should be at the expense of the rich, not the poor. Under Republicans, the ricfJ get richer and the poor get poorer.) 
I'm also afraid that a lot of the cuts will be largely symbolic, since I don't see how Reagan will have any more luck at controlling the special interest groups that have bloated the government than any other administration. In fact, he seems to be more in debt to them than most. I can just see the poor, because they don't have a lobby, losing out on necessary programs, while tax breaks and 
I
business subsidies continue un­
4 I
abated so that Reagan can look good. 
And in his thirty days of office, 
that is what has me most worried 
about Reagan. I'm satisfied that 
he probably won't blow up the 
world, that he isn't a warmonger, 
and that he has basically good in­
tentions. But he seems to me to be 
too symbolic, too concerned with 
appearances and satisfying cer­
tain aspects of the population at 
the expense of others. For ex­
ample, consider his "clamp­
down" on the student loan 
program. This program may seem 
superfluous to Reagan and his 
cronies, but it is the difference be­
tween going or not going to col­
lege for a lot of students. I don't 
thin. k that Reagan realizes the 
reality involved in this situation. 
Or consider the food-stamp and 
C ETA cutbacks. Factories are 
closing left and right and people 
need food stamps to get by, and 
Reagan wants to cut back. C ETA 
programs, with all their fraud and 
waste, help maintain the peace in 
ghetto areas during the summer, 
and as unemployment levels in 
these areas approach 60 percent, I 
wonder what he will propose to take their place. It makes the Republican in Winnetka feel good that ol' Ronnie taking away them free lunches, and that will help Reagan's constituency, but it will not do anything for the man living in the ghetto. How Reagan handles domestic problems such as' these will be his major test, and in thirty days time, he doesn't look promising. He's still got 1430 more days, though, and that's a lot of time to get better. I certainly hope he does. 
Editorial Board and Department Managers 
!Editor-in--Cbief.----········---········--··.·······--·Paul Mullaney Mcmaging Editor...._.._. ........_.._.._.._..:._._. .....-.Mark Rust 
The Observer is an independent newspaper published by the studenrs of the Editorials Editor_. .._. ........._. ..._._.......Michael Onufrak University of Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's Colle~e. It does not necessarily Senior Copy Editor....._...............Mary Fran Callahan reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported E:xecuttve News Editor..........._._. ..._._._.. Tom jackman as accurately and as objectively as possible. Editorials represent the opinion of a 
NE•ws Editor _...._........._..........._...................Lynne Daley 'majority of the Editorial Bo~Vd. Commentaries, opinions, and letters are the views 
SA-IC Executive Editor-. ..... _._................Margle Brassil of their authors. Column SJ?ace is available to all members of the community, and SMC News Editor................................_. ....Mary ~vltt the free exprt-· <: "atytng <minions on campus, through l~tters, is encouraged. 
Sports.Edltor ............... _ .........-................Beth Huffinan 
Features Editor.................._. ...................Molly Woulfe Pboto Editor ._...................................._........John Macor 
Business Manager ............_.•.................. Greg Hedges Controller.._. .........._. ...........••__. ............_ .....Jim Rudd Advertising Manager----···--........--.....Mark Ellis Circulation Manager ... .........................Seth Hackett Production Manager....... ...................,John McGrath 
Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
The~==,~==~================================ 
~~c:llC3L~==========================W=e=d=n=e=sd=a=y=,=F=e=br~u=a=ry==18=,=1=9=8=1=-==pa=g=e~7 
Molarity 
~Ol-.1 KAIJY BIAFRAt-J5 


. 

Michael Molinelli 


33 Power 
source 34 Treat for Kelso 35 Tried for office 


All Rights Reserved 

....................... 
eWE ARE RESPONSIBLE­•e WE ARE ENTHUSIASTIC- e•e  
:  WE WltL WORK FOR YOU!  :  
: MAKENS  HULME  KELLY  :  
e  SPB  VPAA  VPSB  e  
:  Saint Mary's Student Body Elections  :  

15 In reserve 36 Make music 16 "Arrive-41 -up (agog) 
derci-" 42 Hospices 17 Publicizing 43 uSplay­20 Jardiniere wright 21 Galley 44 "-Poet· 
proof note lea" 22 Papal 45 Style 
tribunals 46 Whata 23 Thwacked thurlfer 25 Forehead does 27 Students 48 Game of 29 Boast chukkers 30 Refrain 49 Earprom· 
syllable inences 
Yesterday's Puzzle Solved: 
l/1011 


61 Helper 62 "-to 
Live" 63 Gobl·llke 64 Foreknower 65 -pneumonia 66 Uses henna 
DOWN 1 Delhi Mr. 2 Bakery 
worker 3 Conveys 4 Asian 
holiday 5 USSR river 6 Slant 7 Smidgen 8 "-du 
Iieber" 9 Grasr­10 Quiver 
item 11 Setto 12 Mme. Bovary 13 Colleen 18 Revered 
one 19 Nod 24 Girl of 
song 25 Whipper· snapper 
30 Fleeting 31 Cowpoke's 
milieu 32 Alpaca's milieu 
37 Geisha gown 38 Organic 
compound 39 Nullify 40 Luscious 
cherry 46 Embroidery 
yarn 47 Merit 48 Clout 49 River 
of NY 50 Opposite of "vive!" 51 Ballet position 52 Went by moped 53 Peteror Nicholas 55 Buffalo's 
waterfront 56 Linemen 58 Part of 
USNA:abbr. 59 Silkworm 60 Owned 

STAND UP AND BE COUNTED what: Vote for SMC Student 
Government and Class Officers when: Thurs . FEB. 19 where: LeMans Lobby 10-4 and 
cafeteria, LeMans side,4:30-6:00
* Seniors can vote for Student 
Government Offices 
VOTE BXPBBIBIICB 
VO!B : Marianne OALLAR Gay BAllL.SS MUJbelh BBBRRAR Molly !BOMPSOR 
SMC OLASS 01 '81 
• 

Campus 
• 3:30p.m.-seminar; deci­sion support in maufaturing, loretto patzelt, 303 cushing hall. · 
• 
4:15 p.m. labor workshop; accumulation and loss of wealth by afro­americans: v1rgm•a, 1890­1930, prof. william e. spriggs, university of wisconsin, 509 memorial library. 

• 
4:20 p.m. -physics collo­quium; guage theories of strong electromagnetic and weak interactions, dr. chris quigg, fermi lab, 118 nsh. 

• 
6:30 p.m. meeting, sailing club, 203 o'shag. 

• 
8 p.m.-black cultural arts festival; dramatic readings, cicely tyson, actress, in the memorial library auditorium. 

• 
7 p.m. -film, the kid (1921), ets theatre, admission $1. 

• 
7, 9, II p.m.-film; ma~h. engineering auditorium, floL admission $1. 


e7,10p.m.-film;thegrecn wall, social concerns series, washington hall, admission free. 
• 
8 p.m.-ice capades, ace. 

• 
8 p.m. -lecture; a new look at causability, prof. wes­ley salmon, galvin auditorium. 


e9:30 p.m. music program, the big band era (or what it was like being your age when i was your age), dean emil hofman, the grace hall party room, music, dancing, and discussion. 
Grace presents Emil T. Ho_fman 
Grace Hall will present Dean Emil Hofman tonight at 9:30 in the Grace Hall party room. Dr. Hof­man will present a program entitled "The Big Band Era (or What It Was Like Being Your Age When I Was Your Age)." The program will in­clude music, discussion and per· haps some dancing hy the Dean himself. 
NDMusicum performs 
The Noire Dame Collegium Musicum, a University vocal and instrumental group dedicated to the study and performance of Renais­sance and Baroque music, will present a public performance tomorrow night at 8:15p.m. in the Great Hall of O'Shaughnessy HaiL 
Ethan Haimo, assistant profes­sor of music at Notre Dame and director of the Collegium, or· ganized the group in the summer of 1978. The groups comprises a 20­voice shoir, vocal soloists, and an instrumental ensemble of recorders harpsichord, continuo and violin. 
Tomorrow's program will focus on sacred and secular Italian music of the Reanissance and Baroqut• periods. Featured will be madrigals by such composers as Festa, Palistrina and Monteverdi, and a mass by G.P. Palestrina. Soloists for a group of songs by Guilio Cac­cini will be Anita Hampson, soprano; Michael Hay, tenor; Gerard Jacobitz, harpsichord, and cellist Sherilyn Welton, continuo. 
The program will also feature works by Constanzo, Festo, G.M. Nanino and Felice Anerio. The concert is open to the public with­out charge. 


The Observer Wednesday, February 18, 1981-page 8 
I.U., Iowra vie for Big Ten lead 
CHICAGO (AP)-For a change '"It's too late for that," said advantage in the race but "If a team there will be only one team in first Knight. "I don't see any team gets hot and one or the other has a place in the Big Ten basketball race breaking away. The race will go tough loss, anything can happen." come Thursday night, but some right down to the end. When a race Illinois takes on Michigan conference coaches don't believe remains this close at this point, it'll Thursday night and a victory will the race will end that way -and continue that way to the end." put the Illini in a second place tie, most expect the league to send up The last time Iowa and Indiana still one gamf: off the pace. After to five teams to the NCAA Tourna­met, Knighfsaid it was too early in that the Illini take on Michigan ment. the season for the game to be called State Saturday. 
That was the consensus of crucial. "If we win those two we'll be 10­coaches Lute Olson of Iowa, Bob­"But this is different now," said 4 with fQur to play and two at by Knight of Indiana and Lou Hen­Knight. "This game puts wJloever home," said Henson. "Yes, I think son of Illinois Tuesday following a wins it in first place and in the that would get us in the NCAA. But series of telephone interviews by driver's seat, for the moment, and I think the Big Ten should seqd t four Chicago basketball_writers. if that team doesn't lose another teams to the NCAA and possibly 
The reason there will be only one game, it will win the Big Ten." five. And any Big Ten team in the team in first place Thursday night is Henson admits the winner of the tournament has a chance to go all because 12th-·ranked Iowa and Indiana-Iowa game will have the the way." 16th-ranked Indiana, currently tied for the lead, meet in Iowa City in one of the biggest gamas of the season. Illinois is only one game 
Irish women takt~ final 
behind the leaders. The reason that most coaches believe there will be a tie for the 
home meet 100-40 
title is the fact there will be five more games to play following By DONNA WITZLEBEN dividual medley and the 200-yard Thursday's action. Sports Writer freestyle events. Eellow junior "It's bigg ~r than your usual, nor­
Kathy Latino won the 500-yard nal, game '' said Olson of the Irish seniors Jane Brown, Josi freestyle and the 100-yard butterfly Jattle bet~.< ;en his Hawkeyes and 
Fitzsimons, Mary Kelleher and events. Sophomore Terry ndiana. "' here will be a one-game Elena Rodney, in their last home Schindler won both the 50 and 100­.wing but .'s too early to say it will swimming meet, went out with. a yard breaststroke events. tecide th title. A lot of things can bang as Notre Dame walloped A double first-place winner for 1appen n, d I don't believe either Saint Mary's last night, 100-40. the Belles was Chris Lenyo in the earn will JO undefeated the rest of "We really enjoy swimming 500-yard butterfly and the 100-yard ,he wa) against Saint Mary's since they are freestyle. Grace Romzick ex­
"Th re will be five tough games 
right across the road" said Notre hibited her diving abilities by taking remaimng and, remember, Illinois 
Dame Coach Rody McLaughlin. first place in the one-meter divingplays four of its last six games at 
"Tonight's meet was very com-. competition for Saint Mary's.
home," said Olson. 

petitive and some of our girls had 
The Hawkeye coach also in­
some surprising performances."sisted that "since the NCAA has 
One surprise was Kathy Latino's gone to a 48-team tournament for­
first-place in the 500-yard freestyle, mat; they must take five teams 
an event that she was swimming for from the Big Ten. Anybody who 
Aspjbalt racing draUJ~ unknoUJns
the first time. Another first-placer,do:sn't think five teams should go 
swimming in an event for the first dcesn't know what he's talking 
time, was freshman Valerie Kayabout. This is the best conference Harris in the 100-yard individual By MIKE HARRIS two palaces are only the interna­just 20 miles down the road at little in America." 
medley. AP Sportswriter tional showcases for a sport whose New Smyrna Raceway.
Knight, whose Hoosiers lost to 
The Irish· had four double win-I heart really beats at the local level. Evans, from Rome, N.Y., is aIowa at Indiana earlier in the 
Places like the Indianapolis Nearly every night of the year, hero there. And mention of other season, doesn't any
see team Motor Speedwaand Daytona Inter­there is a local racetrack some­short track stars such as Gary
capable of pulling out at this stage national Spe•edway are the Taj in the United that
where States Balough and Dick Trickle getsof the season. 
Mahals of auto rae· But those opens its doors for a program knowing nods from the local featuring names most motorsports gentry. fans never hear. New Smyrna, which also boasts 
For every Johnny Rutherford a racing show "every Saturday and Richard Petty, there is a Richie night of the year," is a half-mile, Evans, a short-track star who has banked asphalt oval. not gained much notoriety outside Locals who turn out every night 
his own area of the sport. of the nine-day "World Series" 
Evans is the acknowledged king feel the track boasts more excit­of the modifieds, high-powered, ment than the world-reknowned cut-down versions of stock cars. Daytona plant, a world and 20 
While the eyes and ears of most minutes away. motorsports fans have been There are no luxury suites atop focused. on Dayton~ the past two New Smyrna's wooden stands, nor weeks, Evans and a..gr()up of even ars: there hospitality rooms for the less know!i-drivers have been doing sponsors and media or a drivers' battle in ''what is billed as "The lounge in New Smyrna's sprawling. World Serles of As~halt Racing," infield. 
' ' 
' 
The rookie butterfly speda.Ust finished the 200-yard but­terflyin 1:58.21, 0:00.29 ahead of 

Kane in 1975), but his time in the 50 Casey. is the best since Kane's day. Fresh­"Don really hasn't had anyone man Harding's 1:47.3 in the 200-who could swim with him in yard.. {~ejl_~tyle (its into the same practice for three years," Stark 
' .. 
league'"'a~ do. M~Dowan's diving points out. ·"Dan makes Don a bet­totals (17.1!l.95 in the !-meter and ter·swimmer, and it gives us a nice 294.1,-iJ:l,;tbe 3;-f1leter). 1-Z.:punch." 
"Ifs:~*"eaHo see· the underclas­cWillalllQ'wilki, the top man in the smen · g s<r well," says Stark. breaststroke, passed the 2:19.00 ''For:.. . . ust time in a few years, ~a:frier in the 200-yard breaststroke 
we ar~':r$ruty going to be hurt by for the first time in his Irish career graduit'tiun ~*b John (Komora), this past weekend, giving further Patrick::~<~'-.· (LaPiatney), Dave support to Stark's claim that his (Campbel,~!•.Thorn (Krutsch) and team is aiming for, and will peak Betsy ($Jta4ley) all leaving. But for; the Mi<;lwest Invitational com­some o"¢'t~ younger guys really ing: up in early-March. seem r~ady to take over.'' "Going .by the standards of the 
Jacob and Flynn enjoyed their past few seasons, we're in end-of­best weekends of the season in the-season form at mid-season," Ohio during the·Bowling Green and asserts Stark. ''If this trend con­Cleveland State meets this past tinues, we could do all kinds of 
weekend. Jacob became the first damage to the record book when Irish swimmer to beat teammate we get to Terre Laute for the In­Don Casey in 33 straight competi-,·itational.'' 
....... 



The Observer Wednesday, February 18, 1981-page 9 
Muoio's sabre thrusts Irish ahead 
By TIM LARKIN 
Sports Writer 
Sal Muoio exemplifies this year's Notre Dame fencing team. 
Coach Mike DeCicco had his doubts about the team at th~ begin­ning of the season after losing two all-Americans (Andy Bonk and Chris Lyons) to graduation. Now, with half of the schedule com­pleted, the Fighting Irish own a per­fect 14-0 record. 
Some credit for the success must go to senior sabre fencer Sal Muoio. When the season opened, Sal was expected to help captain Greg Armi lead the sabre team. 
But after the competition last weekend, Sal tops all Irish sabres combatants with a 20-4 record (an .833 winning percentage). 
"If Greg Armi is going to get any pressure at the No. I spot it will 
come  from  Sal,"  said  DeCicco  
during the preseason.  
Last  weekend  Muoio  won  ten  

times in 12 bouts. However, against Air Force Sal only managed a split in his two bouts during Notre Dame's 16-11 victory. "Air Force has a very good team," said Muoio. 
On Satunhy against Chicago, Detroit, Milwaukee Area Tech, Purdue and Washington (St. Louis), Muoio was suberb. His on­ly defeat was to Strominger of Washington (St. Louis) in a tight 5­4 decision. Among his nine vic­tories over the weekend was a win over Joe DeTassangi, a freshman sensation for Detroit. 
"Our sabre squad received a good challenge this past weekend," said DeCicco, "but that's the kind of competition they're going to have to face if they're going to get better." 
Muoio viewed the meets dif­ferently. "Not all the competition was good. I had three tough bouts and I lost one of them," he said. 
Muoio thinks his 20-4 record looks good, but still feels he could be fencing better. He's shooting to beat out Armi for the top spot spot and compete in the national cham­pionships for Notre Dame. 
After missing his sophomore year Muoio compiled a 23-5 record as a junior, good enough for thirdSports Brie s best winning percentage on the team and a monogram.by Tht Ohrat·er .1nd Tht' A.rrouuted Prn1 Muoio is enjoying fenc,ing this year more than ever. The teamThe Engineering Basketball League cham­spirit both in competition and pions for the 1980-81 season are the Civil Engineers, who defeated practice is what he likes most about last year's champions, the Chemical Engineers. Jim Bruns and fencing at Notre Dame. Mark Witte co-captained the championship team of John !gel, Mike Sal Muoio, a finance m~!or,Desrosiers, Mike Sibrava, Joe Cinni, Mike O'Sullivan, Jerry Ander­plans to return to New York and'try son, Dan Wheeland and Pete Wuellner. to find work on Wall Street. However, he won't be giving upAll ND rowing club members must attend a short fencing. In New York, there will be The women ofthe basketball team stop their practicing to discussmeeting at 7 p.m., Wednesday in LaFortune Little Theater. Florida plenty of coaching and competition strategy/or their next game. (photo by Linda Slumahan)plans will be discussed. to keep his career rolling.  
~---------------------------,MELODY ALARM WATCH THAT PLAYS AFULL ORDER FORM MINUTE OF THE IRISH FIGHT SONG. NAME ..............'..................................................................... . ADDRESS ............................................................................ . Set the alarm to play the "Victory March" to CITY.......................... STATE.......... ZIP .................. ..remind you of the start of the game or just press to play at any time. Yellow Gold ............. . Male ................ . Order it now to wear to your next alumni party. White Gold ..... : ........ . Female .............A perfect gift for that staunch ND fan you know. The official Leprechaun is pictured on the face NO Fight Song.......... Hey Jude...... Yesterday .........of this watch. Quartz, digital watch available in men's or women's style. White or yellow gold. ~---------------------------~ Lighted display. 24 hr. alarm with snooze feature. Also available -Beatie's tunes. Choose from "Yesterday" and "Hey Jude:· Manufacturer's 1 yr. warranty. Satisfaction guaranteed -if this product isn't everything you expect. simply return it in new condition within 30 days for cornplete refund. Order today. Specify tune, style and color. Only $59.95 for "Victory March" and $39.95 for ASTA.INC. Beatles tunes. Indiana residents add 4'1o sales P.O. Box 1294 tax. Send check or money order. Dealer in­South Bend, IN quiries invited. Allow 8-10 weeks for delivery. 46624 N.D."VI sky. Wha.\ \ho' the odds be great or small, Old No -tre Dame will win ov -er all, While her Sons on-ward \o  

Either way, Muoio felt the team as a whole has a chance to better last season's 19-1 dual meet mark and bring back the national cham­pionship Notre Dame held in 1977 and 1978. 
Muoio, at 5-8 and 140 pounds, is one of five Notre Dame fencers from Centereach, New York, al­though he is originally from Brook­lyn. He took up fencing as a sophomore at Centereach High School on the advice of a friend on the team. Muoio thought fencing would be an asset when applying for college. 
While at Centereach, Muoio was a foil fencer. He had a big dis­apointment when high school teammate Sal D' Allura was seeded to fence over him in the county tournament. Ironically, 0' Allura is fencing with Muoio again as Notre Dame's No.3 sabre man. 
In his freshman season, Muoio saw limited action, winning his on­ly two bouts. That year Notre Dame went on to win the national championship. "I didn't realize the full breadth of it," recalled Muoio. 

The Observer Wednesday, February 18, 1981-page 10 
• • • Kelly 


c.ontinuedfrom page 12 

Utah State and Montana State ­places where he could be logging more playing time than here at 
Notre Dame. In his three years in an Irish uniform, he boasts a mere 59 minutes, 14 points, six assists and five personal fouls. But he looks beyond his personal slats to the overall picture. 
"If we all listen to him (Digger) and everyone accepts his role and sticks together as a family, the fan­tasy might become a reality." The fantasy he speaks of is, as Digger puts it, to "get to Philly and ring the Liberty Bell" -a trip to the Final Four. 
Kelly admits that the aura of Notre Dame has finally gotten to him. He still recalls the time after his first game that a youngster ran up to him for his autograph. "Why do you want my autograph?" Kelly asked. But this was not false humility. 
"Hey," he admits, "it's not hard to be humble when you play as much as I do. Besides, I'm just a student who was fortunate enough to walk-on. I represent the stu­dents, and that's as big a respon­sibility as being a superstar." 
Kelly has nothing but praise for his walk-on counterpart Kevin Hawkins. "He's helped me out a lot. Hawk has improved immensely over the last two years, and his rebounding and muscle have added greatly to the team in practices. We stick together-usually toward the end of the bench. 
"Digger?-Digger is Digger," jokes Kelly. "The man's record speaks for itself. I will always respect him for giving me a chance to play and making me feel like part of the program." 
So now we know who that blur wearing No. 25 is-yeah, the guy who comes in with 13 seconds left so John· Paxson can leave with a standing ovation-he's the team funnyman. 


Senlor Bar Semi Formal 
Mary D's Irish downed by St. Joe's 
Sunday, Mar. 1 
RENSSELAER, Ind. -The Notre Dame women's basketball
Open Bar 9:80 to 2:00 
$18.00 per couple free bottle of champagne 
Advance ticket sales at front door ofSenior Bar 
Where does science fiction end and reality begin? It's all in the mind's eye. Be it the creative imagination used to produce Star Wars, The Black Hole, and The Empire Strikes Back, or the mor~ scientific approach of hypothesis test­ing and experimentation, the distant galaxies of science fiction coalesce into reality with the advanced technology now being developed at a company called TRW. 
It was the Defense and Space Systems Group of TRW who made possible the Viking Lander biological experiment which looked for life on Mars and the High Energy Astronomical Observatory which looks for quasars, pulsars and black holes in deep space. Profession­als at TRW-DSSG are now involved in such impressive technologies as high 
DEFENSE AND SPACE SYSTEMS GROUP ENERGY SYSTEMS GROUP 
team suffered a 84-64 setback at the hands of St. Joseph's College here last night. The loss dropped the Irish to 9-11 on the season. The Puma's now boast a21-5ledger. 
High scorer for the game was St. 
Joe's Kelly Good, who poured in26 points. Notre Dame freshman Jen­ny Klauke scored 13 points while teammate Theresa Mullins chipped in 12 markers. 
The Pumas led 36-26 at the inter­mission, and proceeded to 
energy lasers, communications systems, plus other future projects still consider­ed science fiction. 
A company called TRW will be on campus... 
FEBRUARY27 
to interview graduates in scien­tific and technical disciplines. 
Contact the placement office to sche­dule your appointment. If unable to meet with us, send your resume to: 
College Relations Bldg. R5/B196 NO· 2/81 One Space Park Redondo Beach, CA 90278 
capitalize on an abundance of Irish 
fouls. Notre Dame totaled 34 fouls 
on the evening (three Irish players 
were disqualified). 

St. Joe's shot-35-for-42 from the 
gift line. Notre Dame connected on 
15-of-24 charity tosses. Both bal­
lclubs pumped in 25 field goals. 
Coach Mary DiStanislao will 
take her team on the road again this 
weekend to square off against two 
powe!1ul Division I opponents. 
The Irish travel to Ann Arbor 
Friday to face Michigan. On Sun­
day, they will join the men's team 
in Chicago, where they will play the 
16th ranked Cavaliers of Virginia, 
in the first half of a doubleheader. 
"I think we've shown that we are 
capable of beating the Division III 
and most of the Division II teams 
on our schedule," says DiStanilao. 
"Now is our chance to prove that 
we can play with some of the more 
formidable teams we'll come up 
against." 

Michigan holds a 2-0 series edge 
over the Irish, pulling out a 66-60 
overtime win last year at the ACC. 
The Wolverines, who sport an 8-14 
record, are led by junior Diane 
Dietz. The 5-9 forward is averaging 
20.2 ppg. Also averaging in double figures is 5-6 guard Lori Gnat­kowski (10.6 ppg) and 5-11 forward Abby Currier (10.3 ppg.) Penny Neer; a 6-foot junior, is the team's leading rebounder, grabbing 6.1 per contest. 
Virginia, meanwhile, brings an impressive 19-6 ledger into Chicago's Rosemont Horizon, for the first meeting ever between the two schools. Three players are averaging in double figures for the Caviliers -6-0 freshman forward Linda Mitchell (12.5 ppg.), 5-7 junior guard Melissa Mahoney 
(12.0 ppg.) and 5-10 senior forward Valerie Ackerman (10.8 ppg.) Un­der the boards, 6-1 sophomore Chrissy Reese is rebounding at an 
8.3 clip. Although the Irish have dropped 
. their last two contests, DiStanilao 
is encouraged by the fine offensive 
showing freshman Jenny Klauke 
has provided. The 5-10 guard set a 
Notre Dame record for most points 
scored in one half (27) during last 
week's clash with Ball State. 
Klauke, who hails from Glenview, 
Ill., established another school 
mark when she connected on eight 
consecutive free throws. 

"Jenny is playing very smart 
basketball for us lately," offers her 
coach. "She has very strong moves 
to the basket, and the fact that she 
is using her talents with more intel­
ligence is very encouraging for us." 
The Irish conclude their five-· game road trip against Michigan State on Feb. 26, before closing out the regular season at home with Il­linois on Feb. 28. 
Swimmers compete Saturday 
By MICHAEL ORTMAN 
Sports Writer 

Just three dual meets remain on the schedule for the Irish swimmers this year, and although their hopes of a perfect season are gone, Den­nis Stark's 23rd Notre Dame team still could finish as his second win­ningest ever. The Irish will shoot for that target this weekend when they travel to DeKalb, Ill., for a double-dual meet with host North­ern Illinois and Ferris State. The three-team affair is scheduled for Saturday afternoon at I p.m. 
Stark's !973-74 team finished with an impressive Il-l record, and his 1972-73 edition finished 8-4. At 7-2, his current contingent seems ready to stand among his best. 
Some of this season's best times have made a believer out of Stark as people like juniors Michael Shepardson and John Wil­lamowski, sophomore Paul McGowan and freshmen Dan Flynn, AI Harding, and Tim Jacob, have chalked up the best Irish times and totals in several years. 
Shepardson's :21.66 in the 50­
, yard in the 50-yard freestyle and :47.96 in the 100 aren't quite school records (:21.5 and :47.1 set by Jim 
See SWIMMERS, page 8 

INTERHALLBASKETBALL RANKINGS 
A DIVISION 
I. GRACE24 (8-0) 2. HOWARD3 (8-0) 3. HOLY CROSS 18 (7-0) 4. FLANNER8 (7-2) 5. SORIN 25 (6-2) 
BDIVISION 
I. GRACE33 (7-0) 2. KEENAN40 (5-0) 3. PANGBORN 47 (5-I) 4. OFF-CAMPUS45 (5-1) 5. DILLON 35 (6-2) 

' ' ~. 
' 

Wednesday, February 18, 1981-page 11 
All c:lasstf1ed ads n-ust be fece•ved by 4 45 p m., two davs pnor to the 1ssue tn whtch the ad ts run The Observer otftce wtll accept classllteda Mon<1av through Fnday, 1O·OO a rp 10 4 45 p.m All class•f•eds must be 
pre-patd. E"~ther m nerson or through the mall
Classifieds 
,___(_N_O_TIC_E_S___.I 
PROFESSIONAL TYPING. Term papers, theses, elc. Tape lranscrij>­lion. LasI year's same low prices. All work guaranteed. aardvark aulomalic solutions. 289-6753. 
POETRY CONTEST $75 IN PRIZES SEND NAME ADDRESS Sl HANDLING FEE PER/POEM AND SASE BY MARCH I TO HIPPOCRENE, BOX 212 NOTRE DAME, IN 46556. 
WILL DO TYPING, REASONABLE RATE& CALL 287-5162. 
DON'T WALK ALONE!!! GET AN ESCORT!!! Student Escorl Service on-call Sun lo Thurs 7 lo Midnighl. Call 6283 (OBUD). AI lhe NO Library 10 lo 
II :45 pm. All s1uden1 Volunteers. 
USE IT!!!!!! DON'T BE AFAID TO CALL! 
USED & OUT-OF-PRINT BOOKS bough!, sold, searched. ERASMUS BOOKS. Toes­Sunday, 12-6. 1027 E. Wayne (One hlock south of Eddy-Jefferson in­lerseclinn) 
Will do typing for reasonable rules. Call287-5162. 
MORRISSEY LOAN FUND Emergency loans for ND slu­denls. $20-$200. One percent inter­
est. Due in one monlh. Open 
II :30-12:30, M-Fin I he basemen! of LaFnrlunc. Final day for seniors In apply IS Friday, March 13. 
FAS~ REASONABLE TYPING DONEnncampus. Phone 1312. 
HEY ALL NEW JERSEYIANS: 
COME TO TilE N.J. CLUB HAPPY HOUR TI·IIS FRIL)AY FEBRUARY 20. SEE THE NEWSLETTER FOR MORE IN­FO!!! 
CRYSTAL ROCKS Friday & SaiUrday ni~hls al Mardi Gras. 
S MC clecliuns-Vole-
Murphy Lopez Perreault ... fur re~ult~. 
OPEN A DOOR TO THE SOPH­OMORE LITERARY FESTIVAL March 1-7 
ILOST(FOUN£ij 
. ·I··· LOST-·A Sl LV ER BRACELET WATCH. CALL TERESE AT277­K037. REWARD$$$$$ 
FOUND: ONE SET OF KEYS ON ORANGE RING NEAR CAMPUS VIEW APTS. CALL 1816. 
LOST: ONE 14 KT. GOLD BRACELET WITH INITIALS. PLEASE CALL4336. 
LOST: EYEGLASSES. RIM­LESS, BROWN CASE. 127 NIEUWLAND. LAST THURSDAY. CALLJOE 1183. 
LOST: ATBPPARTY FRIDAY NIGHT, RED PLAID SCARF. PLEASE CALL 1284. 
LOST: MEN'S FUR LINED LEATHER GLOVES IN RP ON JUNIOR PARENTS WEEKEND. Call1284. 
LOST: ELECTRIC TIMEX WATCH, BLACK BAND, ON SATURDAY NIGHT AROUND SOUTH (JUAD. CALL KEN, 3779. 
FOUND: bracelet, between Grace and D-1, has lhe name "Geri" inscribed nn frnnl and a dale un hack, also has 2 charms. To claim cull 8639. 
LOST: GREEN JADE HEART CHARM between McCandless Parking Lui and LcMans. Great senlimenlal value. Please call Teresa at47K8. 
Lnsl bcfnre Christmas break: Rusl­'colored,....cart·. If found call Deirdre al 8661 or 8013. Also lnsl a brass, 
maple-leaf-shaped bell buckle 
L..-1_FO_R_RE_N_T____.I 
Available for nexl school year: 2 five-bedroom houses, near NO, lease, deposit, 234-2626. 
For Renl: Large, partially fur­nished home, alarm system available, four bedrooms. Also, homes for summer renl. Call Tim al 283-8702. 
FOR RENT UGLY DUCK­LING RENT-A-CAR FROM $7.95 A DAY AND 7 CENTS A MILE. PHONE 259-UGLY FOR RESERVATIONS. 
WANTED 
Needed: Ride lo Houston for Spring break. Will share lhe "usual". Call Kalhy (41)4291. 
NEED RIDE TO BUFFALO ON FEB 18 OR 191h PLEASE CALL MATT AT 1787. 
NEED RIDE TO MIL­WAUKEE ON THURS. OR FRIDAY 2/19 OR 2/20. CALL KATI E4451. 
KAPLAN MCAT R09KS. WILL BUY, RENT OR BOR­ROW. CALL STEVE AT277-7759 AFTER II P.M. 
Slay al lhe lovely ABAD ABODE in Daytona Beach for Spring Break. Will provide free fond and lodging al my home in Daytona if you give me a ride (or will share expenses and driving). Call Greg Abad 8101. 
Wanted: Ride lo Dallas or surrounding area for Spring Break. Will share expenses. Please call 4606 anytime. 
[ FOR SALE I 
FOR SALE: B I C 920 TURN­TABL~ II MONTHS OLD. CALL RICH AT 1905. 
ARMSTRONG FLUTE. USED OCCASIONALLY. $400 OR BEST OFFER. 232-9782 IN EVENINGS. 
TICKETS 
Desperately need a pair of Virginia tix. Check my price. Call Mike at 1601 
NEEDED!!! 2 GA lix In DePaul vs, ND. Please call. Call Cathy 41­4380. 
Need many Daylon lix. Call Monica al41-5154 
Need three G.A. 1ix for DAYTON, PLEEAAASSSSE!!!!! Call Kathy al289-5026. 
I NEED MANY DAYTON TIX, STUDENT AND GA--PLEASE CALL BETH AT 1715 OR 277­8037. 
Need MANY Daylon lickels for brothers and sisters. Sludcnl or GA. Please call Mury8156. 
I NEED TWO DAYTON TIX, 
G.A. OR STUDENT. WILL PAY YOUR PRICE. KATIE4451. 
Need 4-61ickcls for Dayton. Will pay big$$$. Call Joe 4625. 
Needed: Two lickels lo Virginia. For rich brother $$$ Call Sean a1 1588. 
NEED2 VIRGINIA TIX! WILL PAY ANYTHING. CALL PAT AT2349657 AFTER 7:00. 
Need I or 2 lickcls fur VIR­GINIA or DePaul vs ND. Pay BIG $$$. Call Ticn 272-7447. 
NEEDED!!2 DAYTONGA TIX FOR PARENTS. GOOD $$$. PLEASE CALL FRANK AT8295. 
I PERSONALS I 
PET CO UTI FOR SALE. CON­TACT CAROL MULLANEY IM­MEDIATELY. 
ST. MARY'S STUDENTS: On Thursday, vole for experience, dedication and resourcefulness 
VOTE: MITCHELL BOURJAILY PAGNUCCI 
Your  1icke1  10  responsible  
governmenl.  
INSTANT  CASH  PAID  FOR  

CLASS RINGS, $20-$85 OR MORE. WE MAKE HOUSE CALLS. 255-2402. 
SOCIAL CONCERNS FILM SERIES ENDS THIS WEEK WITH "THE GREEN WALL". 
THEFULALLMENTOFTHE PROMISE DEPENDS ON FAITH... 
You don'l have lo be a Marxist, feminist, commie pinko 10 koob well, bul il helps! 
SMC Remember Thurs. Feb. 19--
Casl your vole for: 
MAKENS HULME KELLY Stude nl Body Elections 
Angeli Ia Sleeper, BRUCE!!!! (Remember I he mall?) Shalom, Your buddies 
SMC CLASS OF '84 Vole DUVIC, Aislhorpe, Flynn, & Orr CLASS OFFICERS! 
JAN E-O, WHY DO YOU HATE SCOOP? 
TO THE BASKETBALL TEAM: You are slill GRRRREAT! Kelly, Orlando, Tracy, Billy, Digger, you arc still gods. M. K. & Sue from Lyons. 
SMC OFF-CAMPUS 
VOTE-MAK ENS 
HULME 
KELLY STUDENT BODY ELECTIONS, THURSDAY FEB. 19 
DAVE PIECH 
DAVE PIECH 
DAVI! PIECH 

Whal will you do? 
Whal will you do? 
Presentation & Discussion "Someone in My Family Drinks Too Much"; Ihe effecls of problem drinking on lhc family. Monday, Feb. 23 6:00 PM Holy Cross Hall 
. SMC 

Dear'?, , /Thank you fo'r the nower. 
Luann 

ATTENTION MOOSE CON­TROL: 
35 days and slill counting lilllhc repressive and capilalislic im­perialist moose controllers are overthrown by the combined mighl, anger, and pride oflhe Noire Dame underlings. We have endued enough--lei lhe final offensive begin... 
CAPTAIN ZERO MAX 
A long lime ago, in a galaxy far, 
far away.... Captain Zero Max is as foolish as he is stupid ... , He has nol yet learned to use Con­trol .... Conlrol binds us all10ge1her... Oh, never mind. Look, I'm a good guy. Leave me alone. Can'l you understand ­leave me alone. ll's nol easy being repressive. 
Moose Conlrol ............. ························~······ 
I'll lake you all on: "Thai man is strongest who slands alone." Enemy of tht• People, by Henrik Ibsen. 
Moose Conlrol 
Ryan & Scoop; your compassion brings tears lo my eyes. Whal good friends. May I be able lo repay lhe favor. 
Molly 

S MC elections-­
Vole MURPHY LOPEZ PERREAULT 
...for resulls 
OPEN HOUSE al Augusta lhis Sunday, 2-4 p.m. for inleresled Saini Mary's sludenls! 
VOTE CHRIS MULLEN FOR LYONS HALL TREASURER 
Come celebrate the SMC Studenl Government election returns at THE EMPTY KEG!!!! Thursday from 9 pm lo I am al SMC Club­house. 
PTY KEG...THE EMPTY KEG...THE EMPTY KEG... THE EMPTY KEG...THE EMPTY KEG .... relurns lo Saini Mary's Clubhouse I his Thursday 9 pm lo I am.... EMPTY KEG...THE EMPTY KEG... THE EMPTY KEG...THE EMPTY KEG...THE EMPTY KEG 
3S Badin would like 10 personal­ly Ihank Ihe men of JEW Stanford for lhe bathrobes, booze, and ban­ler. Pori your party over here any time! 
Allention Skaters; Figure skaling laugh! by M.J. "Dorothy Hammil" Costello. Classes conducted on Mondays outside O'Shag. Don'llel lhis opportunity slip away. Sign up 
now! 

Julie Clcmmenls, Happy day-aflcr-you-birlhday! Orli 
SHERR!, 

HOW 'BOUT THAT ELECTRIC BLANKET I'VE HEARD SO MUCH ABOUT? ITS ALL OVER CAMPUS!!!! 
If you wanl Ihe besl Ihen forge! Ihe resI and vole for: 
RODGERS BOLDT CLARKE FLAHERTY 

THEY'LL DO IT FOR YOU IN '82!!!!! 
Congralulalions Barb!!!!!!! Your GE on Valentines Day was fantas­tic! Keep up the good work. Love, Two fully alive friends!!!!!! 
To my Favorile P-Breakcr(3-0): Thanks for such a SPECIAL lime EVERY lime(breaking or nun­breaking)--Nol Mrs. Stevens, jusl Me(l-0). 
. ·····················•·•····················· JANA & CAROL (aka 'THONG')-
Thanx for lhe living organism on 
V.D. II slill lives in my room-­suspended in alcoholic solution. Thanx also for Ihe parly in vile--and· lhe 'special introduction.' 
McGrath 
To lhc Thomas who senl lhe roses and whoever pul in lhe personal--a special !hanks. You made my Valentine's Day. 
Love, Shelly 
P.S. I would love lhe ch.ance lo personally lhan! you, 
MARK. 

CONGRATULATIONS ON THE REMOVAL OF YOUR BRACES. NOW YOU WON'T HAVE TO WORRY ABOUT RED CREAM SODA RESIDUE. 
SOPHOMORE 
CLASS OFFICERS 

vole BRIDGET DOLAN,KATHY JENNINGS, CAROL McNERNEY. JANE LEINENWEBER! 
JOE AND OSCAR: 

THANKS MUCHO FOR THE LATE NITE HELP! IT'S NICE TO FIND NEW FRIENDS! SEE YA SOON-THE PARTY ROOM PIRATE. 
SUGAR LOAF BOUND. MANY SOPHOMORES WERE FOUND DRINKING KEGS & QUARTS AT OUR DAYS INN FORT. THUMPER WAS THE TOPS. DEAD BABY JOKES NEVER STOPPED. POLELESS SKIING AND MEGA TRAINS SHOWED WE WERE REALLY SANE. IT WAS A GREAT TIME FOR ALL. HEY MARK. ONE 
~.e.E ~~-~~.~~~·L·! .......... .. ATTENTION ALL !IIEW JER­
SEYIANS: 

THE N.J. CLUB WILL BE HAVING A HAPPY HOUR THIS FRIDAY!!! SEE THE NEWSLETTER FOR MORE IN­FO. DON'T MISS IT!!! YOU DESERVE SOME FUN!! 
THERE ARE A LIMITED AMOUNT OF SEATS LEFT ON THE N.J. CLUB BUS FOR SPRING BREAK. THE BUS GOES TO EAST BRUNSWICK AND N. Y.C. COST IS $73.00 ROUND TRIP. CALL KEVIN AT 7687 OR CHRIS AT 4479 BE­TWEEN 6 AND 10 P.M. FOR MORE INFO. 
CHUBS IS NO LONGER CALITHYGAN 
Dear SCOPE, Life wilh you is so much fun, HOW 'BOUT IN 81 AND 82? YES, this is a request. Ruben Venturi 
At lhe risk of inflaming thousands of Domers and SMCs, here's a moose-ical moose joke: 
Q: Who has performed many sold­out concerts in I he Yukon? 
A: Moose Springsteen! 
(Moose Conlrol lakes no credil and places no blame for this trivial bil of humor, though Ihere are clues as 10 who is responsible, he said, quizically) 
Moose Conlrol 
Eddie: Even if I can' I pick RA's, you'll still always be allhe lop of my lisl. Duke 
SENIORS Make your vole 
COUOI. 
VOTE 
MURPHY 
LOPEZ 
PERREAULT 
mcgralh, 
have you charged up lhe dealh 
slar for I he plane! m. ycl? we' rc all 
anxiously awailing the destruction 
of oppression and obnoxiousness. 
scoop and especially molly 
Molly likes me, Ihough. plunel m 
HEY SMC '83 
vole RODGERS 
BOLDT 
CLARKE 
FLAHERTY 
Junior Class Officers! 
HEY TOM WALSH. 
Know If We Under Stand In Suj>­
plemenlal A Doing II Can Kill 
DON'T YOU AGREE??? 
Kellee, gel lhose legs over 10 SMC once in a while. 
Revenge is easier thai way. 

GORDON GERACI--­HI TO THE LIVING CAMPUS LEGEND. PANAMA RED 
HOW FAR CAN Y SEND 
YOU? ALL THE WAY TO NEW 
ORLEANS! SMC SENIOR 
CLASS PRESENTS A 
SUITCASE PARTY! FEB. 26 AT 
LEE'S. CHECK POSTERS FOR 
TICKET LOCATIONS. 
EVEN A ROOM IN MOTEL 6 COSTS $11.95! SECOND PRIZE SENDS YOU TO THE SENIOR FORMAL. SMC SENIOR CLASS SUITCASE PARTY AT LEE'S FER. 26. 
Beware of JEW Stanford's Por­laparly ~II. 
All my rommales are graduating! I need 3 classmates lo share my Campus View apl. nexl yr. For more info. call Kathy-277-8839. 
SAM I, HAPPY BIRTHDAY!!!!! lOTI AMO, SOCCER WIFE 
SMC SENIORS 
Remember-YOU can VOTE 
MAKENS 
HULME 
KELLY 
Sludenl Body Elections Thursday­
Feb. 19 
PITTSBURGHES THERE WILL BE A PITTSBURGH CLUB PARTY IN FLANNER'S COMMONER THIS FRIDAY NIGHT (FEB. 20). ALL MEM­BERS ARE FREE. (BRING SOME POOF TO SHOW THAT YOU'RE FROM PITTSBURGH). BE THERE! 
Kellee likes em wilhoul lies. And shirls. And socks. Elc. 
And we know whal lhal means. Revenge impends. 
MARDI GRAS '81 PRESENTS FORECAST LIVE7P.M. T09:30, WED., FEB. 18. 
COME HEAR "NEXT" WED. FEB 18, 9:30-12 AT MARDI GRAS. 
MARDI GRAS '81 PRESENTS COMEDY NIGHT, THURS., FEB. 19. 
Come see The Outcasts al Mardi Gras, 10:15 Thurs., Feb. 19 

IT'S LAUGH TIME AT MARDI GRAS. COMEDY NIGHT, THURS., FEB. 19., FEATURING 
MARDI GRAS '81 PRESENTS CRYSTAL, FRI., FEB. 20, 9:30­
11:30 AND SAT., FEB. 21, 9:30­11:00. 
COME HEAR SMOKEY JOE AT MARDI GRAS ON SAT., FEB. 21, FROM 7-9 P.M. 
CALLAN, HARLESS, BREN­NAN AND THOMPSON: YOU'RE THE WINNING TICK­ET! GOOD LUCK TO YOU FROM THE CLASS OF '82. 
CLASS OF '82 VOTE CAL­LAN, HARLESS, BRENNAN, THOMPSON. THEY'LL WORK FOR YOU! 
PATRICE: 
ANTHO:~y IS STEVEN LARS OR IS IT ML WHO IS STEVEN LARS? OR IS ML A WWW? ASK ME AT THE FLOATING RIB. THE ITALIAN BARTENDER. 
Vole Dziminski, Bunker, Burns, Clark, SMC Jr. Class Officers. 
SMC Freshmen: Vote for a "Class Acl": Murphy, Hoeler, Drake, and Hughes on Feb. 19 for Sophomore Council. 
SMC Class of 82 

Vole fur: Mary Beth Rillenhouse, Pres. Beth Armstrong, VP Bobbi McCarthy, Treas Colleen 0' Brien, Sec 
Dear Loserof346 Sorin, 
Thanks for a terrific weekend. h's no wonder why I keep hearing the Sound of Music. Ha-Ha! 
Love, The LosI One 

To lhe Grealesl Egyptian Flute Player (naulisl?) in I he world: How's Crown Town? Love. Warren Really Lookalike 
Family Feud-ers of Farley Beware! A Richard Dawson impersonator is lurking about forcing Farleyilcs lo play FAST MONEY!! 
BEWARE 

To all interested parties: 
In an efforllo squelch Ihe rumors concerning Roscann 0' Hara's dale for Ihe Regina Formal, I happily an­nounce I am it. 
Macho Ed 

Jeff Jeffers for UMOC 
Bahy, Ihe rain must fall-bul why is il always my shoes lhal gel wei? You never give me u chance. I've learned 10 live wilh il-and wilh­oul you. I'm losI. 
EK 

Pal Byrnes and Jim McClure al 9:15; The Oulcasls all0:15 
Today'sofficiul Moose Joke pair: 
Q: Whal kind of car docs Ihe Yukon jel sci drive? 
A: Mooserali, of course. (Would I steer you wrong' Nol until I' vc driven you crazy -lhcn you'll have lo shifl for yourself.) 
Pari II (,): Whal car did Ihe laic greal Sieve McQueen destroy driving through I he Yukon in" Rullill"? 
A: A Mouselang, as all movie fans know. (Credil lhe first one lo Chris 
Len yo, and I he Iauer 10 Monica) Moose Control 
Interested in Newspaper Wnrk: 
Apply for Ohser\'U Edil<lrial Board positions. Good paying jobs are still available al lhc following positions: -Features Editor -Photo Editor -ControDrr (Accounting MaJor Req.) -Editorials Editor -&nlor Copy Editor (Musl Have Experience) -SMC Executive Editor -Production ManaJ!cr 
N.B. We are also accepting al>" plicalions for ManaglnJI•:dttor. Aj>­plicanls musl have good knowledge of newspaper operations. Good management skills arc a musl. All majors will be considered wilhoul bias. This is one of lhe highest paying jobs on campus. 
Deadline: Friday Direcl Applications and Inquiries 
to: John McGrath, Obun·u (8661) 
,. 



a walk-on" and occupies a position Sports Writer noticeable teammates, ("Thanks alongside the trainers on the Notre Trip, I made you and your legs Dame bench. But to Kelly, his role 
... charging across halfcourt,_ heroes in Southern Cal-and still 
By MARK ELLIS benevolence of one of his more 
with the Irish is much more than sit-· ·ting and waiting his turn. 
twisting, crossing over, spinning, rio ink! Thanks a lot Trip!") but 
"My contribution
he dishes off to a streaking Kevin Marc Kelly does have a pretty good main occurs 
CAVALIER CHALLENGE-The scene is set once again.
hoop game-just ask anyone at the behind the scenes," says the 5-10,
Hawkins for the easy hoop at the 
Sunday afternoon's nationally televised basketball showdown 
Rock, where he's been known to 160-poundjunior. "I use my quick­
buzza-it's Notre Dame over-The 
with the Virginia Cavaliers marks yet another in the continuing
put on a clinic or two. ness to pn~pare Pax (John Paxson) 
Little Sisters ofthe Poor by47...the 
series of Irish tussles with unbeaten, top-ranked foes. Virginia rests 
He passes well, has dangerous and the other guards with their
scene is all too familiar. 

atop the Associated Press Writers' poll of college squads while also 
quickness to both sides, and drops defense and zone breaking. I filled 
residing in the runner-up position on the United Press Coaches' list 
in his patented no-spin jumper gaps in the lineup earlier in the year
He's no "Master of Disaster", 
behind Oregon State. 

when a couple of guys were out
more often than not.

ahd about lhe only way he'll ever 
In the last ten years, the Irish have upset either the defending
with injuries and Digger only had
Still, Marc Kelly is dubbed "only
make Sports Illustrated is via the~ 
national champion or the current number-one team in the country
ten players to work with. But main­
on seven occasions. UCLA was the victim four times (89-82 in 1971,
ly I feel it's my job to keep 
71-70 in 1974, 84-78 in 1975 an'd 66-63 in 1976), while recently, un­
everybody loose." 

beaten San Francisco (93-82 in 1977), defending national titleholder 
~Kelly has adopted the role of 
Marquette (65-59 in 1978) and unbeaten DePaul (76-74 in double 
.: team funnyman with great success 
overtime one year ago) have been stung by Notre Dame's upset­
since .his freshman year. "There is 
minded wrath. 

so much pressure to perform well," 
Sunday's game will be televised nationally by NBC-TV again, as 
he says. "It's tough for a guy to go 
the second of their three bi-weekly telecasts of the Digger Phelps 
from high school superstar to riding 
show this winter. Dick Enberg, AI "you have to dance with the 
the bench at ND. It's up to me and 
person you came with" McGuire and Billy "Virginia has to win­
Hawk (Kevin Hawkins) to pick the 
they're from the Atlantic Coast Conference" Packer will handle the 
guys up when they're dowu." 
commentary. The Irish are only 1-2 on NBC this season, downing
He cites this year's team as 
Maryland 73-70 in Cole Fieldhouse but losing to Marquette 54-52
possessing a special closeness, one 
and UCLA 51-50. Last seas0n, Notre Dame posted aA-2 slate
conducive to ribbing and heckling. 
before the peacock's cameras, thumping UCLA, Maryland, South
"I always seem to instigate it," 
Carolina and Dayton but falling before Kentucky and Marquette.
Kelly says. "Like the time on the 
Notre Dame has never faced Virginia and no Phelps' team has
bus after the Polish game banquet. 
ever matched up with the Cavaliers, who stand atop the ACC with a
That ended in Tree (Orlando 
12-0 record.

Woolridg(~) telling Ce~cil (Rucker) 
By virtue of decisions over Maryland and North Carolina State,
he was probably the only one ever 
Phelps owns a 9-9 mark in his career against ACC opponents. He
who could hoola-hoop in a 
could make it a clean sweep this season with a win over Virginia.
Cheerio." 

Some have suggested that Phelps employ a box-and-one defense
Or the t:ime at last year's banquet 
against Virginia's answer to the Sears Tower, Ralph Sampson. The
when Kelly refrained from taking 
only difference from the conventional box-and-one would be to put
shots at Irish Head Coach Digger 
the box around Sampson and let the one guard the other four.
Phelps in front of20 people because 
"how coUild a guy who wears pink 
WOMEN FACE CAVALETTES (?)-For those of you who are
suits on national television defend 
planning to get to the Rosemont early this Sunday (maybe you could
himself anyway?" 

go straight from Corby's), the Irish women will be entertaining the
·After his senior year at Cres­
Virginia women's team at 10 a.m. CST (II a.m. EST). The Cavalie~s 
centa Valley High School (La Cres­
are rated 16th nationally among women's teams. 
centa, Cal.), Kelly actually passed 
up offers to play ball at Pepperdine, 
IRISH DEAD-EYES-The Irish have shot better than 50 per­
Marc Kelly sees his role with the Irish as much more than sitting 
cent from the floor in all but two of theirgames this season (yes, they
See KELLY, page 10 1 even shot over 50 percent against Fairfield). Notre Dame's 55.7 perc cent field goal clip rim ked second behind Oregon State's 57.3 figure when ratings were released last week. Notre Dame's average has since climbed to 55.9 percent, which, coupled with Oregon State's sub-par performance against St. John's, should shrink the margin between the top two national sharpshooting challengers. 
on the bench and waiting his turn. 
Just a few extra inches 
Notre Dame has shot a blistering 58.6 percent (318-543) in its last II games, and with four regular season games left are well on the way to smashing the 53.0 percent standard set by the 1973-74 Irish. 
much Ralphie has meant to the Cavaliers and their 28­
Seven Irish regulars are shooting better than 50 percent on the 
game winning streak. 
campaign.

And he'll tell you a lot more than that if you give him a chance. In fact, all you have to do is dial (804) 924­
THE TIES THAT BIND-Their94-8lloss at Pauley Pavilion in 
3036 and you'll hear him admit he may have a problem 
November aside, the last three Irish losses have been by a total of
getting his team motivated to play Notre Dame. 
six points: three points to San Francisco (66-63), two to Marquette
·'Our players are doing a good job taking one game 
(54-52) and one to UCLA (51-50).
at a time,'' hisses the record,ed Cavalier Sportsline. 
I hope they don't go into overtime. 
"But they might overlook Notre Dame because we 
A GLUTTON FOR AURAL PUNISHMENT (or WHEN THE
have an important conference game with Wake Forest 
RED LIGHT GOES ON)-Those of you who have access to 
(Editor's note: For the next three days, Frank on Tuesday." 
Chicago televsion stations may want to tune in to WGN-TV, cha~­
LaGrotta will report on the Notre Dame basketball I don't blame you for being shocked. I can't believe 
nel9, on Saturday night. The USNMadison Square Garden Televi­
team's preparation for Sunday's game with Virginia. he said it either-and on tape, no less. Doesn't he 
sion Network, in association with MetroS ports, will be beaming the
The following is his first installment.) remember how that stunt came back to haunt Richard 
DePaul-Marquette game from the Rosemont Horizon arena starting
All my life I've wanted to be ta!l. . . Nixon? 
at 8 p.m. EST. Color commentator for the telecast will be our own
I mean, I'm not neurotic about 11 or anythmg, but 1f I But hey, Terry, if overlooking Notre Dame is gonna 
Digger Phelps. 

had three wishes, !~probably waste one of them on be a big problem, we'll und,~rstand. I mean, when 
ICE PRICES SLIP-Tickets for this weekend's home hockey
adding a few extra inches to my somewhat "stocky" you're No. I, it's hard to be humble. 
series with Colorado College have been reduced to $2.50 for stu­
frame. ~ But let's talk a little more: about Sampson, who 
dents from the regular $4.00. 
Usually though, I don't even think about it. But usually "overlooks" (or is that, looks over) everyone 
Notre Dame's twin wins at Michigan State last weekend marked
when somebody like Ralph Sampson comes along, he meets. The big guy is ranked fifth nationally in 
the first WCHA series sweep of the year for the Irish. Having won
well, it's kind of a slap in the face. Sampson, in case rebounding with 12.3 per game-which puts him at 
only one WCHA game at home this year, the Irish thus seem ripe for
you've been lodged in a time capsule, plays center ~or the top of the Atlantic Coast Conference in that 
a big series this weekend. 
the Virginia Cavaliers. He's very talented, very artic­category. He also leads the ACC in scoring with 20 
Incidentally, only some 200 tickets remain for each night of the
ulate and he scores a lot of points. ~points per game and blocked shots with 66 this year. 
hockey series with Wisconsin slated for February 27 and 28. Over
But that doesn't bother me. "Sampson is a great player," sighs Digger Phelps. 
800 Wisconsin fans are expected to attend Notre Dame's home
Oh yeah, he's 7-4. Now that bothers me. "Certainly his size is a big advantage but he is well­
finale in the WC HA. 

After all, with all of us 5-8 people running around, rounded fundamentally and <:an do a lot more than why should anyone get to be 7-4? You would think post underneath the basket and block.shots." 
ONLY 47 PRACTICE DAYS LEFT!!!-That's right, there are
that 6-3 or 6-4 would be tall enough for anyone. And the word from Virginia is that Ralph is a really 
only 47 practice days left before the opening round of this year's
But not Ralph Sampson. If they ever do are-remake nice guy with a great personality who kisses babies 
tenth eternal Bookstore Basketball Tournament. Tournament
of King Kong, Ralph would be a natural for the part of and helps little old ladies across the street-when, 
Director Rob Simari reports that first round games will begin on 
the skyscraper. He started growing when most k1ds that is, he isn't busy scoring points, grabbing 
April6, with the finals on Sunday, April26.
his age weren't even talking. And he didn't stop­rebounds, blocking shots and intimidating the 6-10 
Tournament Public Relations Director Skip Desjardin (whose 
even when he was the tallest kid in his kindergarten centers of the world. 
real name tops the Bottom ten of Favorite First Names) has also 
class. He kept growing and growing and ... But I don't care about all that. I'm not the least bit 
revealed himself (just kidding) has revealed plans for a tournament 
C'mon Ralph. It's not nice to take advantage of interested in updated stats, coaches' comments or 
reunion featuring past championship teams. Anyone who is a mem­
mother nature. pretty press releases that make a regular human being 
ber of a past Bookstore champion or who has contact with a former 
But, in all fairness, Ralph has put his size to good into some sort of god-on-paper. I just want to know 
championship team member is encouraged to call Simari at 283­
use. Just ask his coach, Terry Holland, who bows to one thing: 
8767.

the south (toward Harrisonburg, Va., Sampson's How did he get to be so tall??? 
hometown) before every game. He'll tell you how (to be continued) 







