.. .Murder in Liberty -page 7 

VOL. XV, NO. 74 an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and saint mary's WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 21,1981 
Hostages out • • • Reagan in 
Warm welcome greets 52 Americans in Weisbaden West Germany 
By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS 
Fifty-two freed American hostages arrived in West Germany early Wednesday, ending a 444-day ordeal as hostages in Iran and a 12-hour flight from Tehran via Athens and Algiers. 
At a stopover at Algiers' wind-swept airport, Algc:rian officials ficials, acting as intermediaries, formally turned the former captives over to 
U.S. authorities In a briefand joyous ceremony. 
The American~. one flashing a V-for-victory sign and another shout­ing "God bless America," then flew aboard two U.S. medical evacua­tion planes to West Germany for a period ofrest and "decompression" at a U.S. Air Force hospital. 
The Medevac DC-9s touched down at the Rhein-Main Air Base near frankfurt at 12:45 a.m. EST this morning. Their next trip will be to the United States. 
They had llown out of Tehran aboard an Algerian airliner 25 minutes after Ronald Reagan succeeded Jimmy Carter as president at noon yesterday in inauguration ceremonies in Washington. And as they were led to the plane, one at a time, a group oflran's revolution­ary guards crowded around, waving their fists and chanting, "Death to America!" 
Ali Abdelaziz, an Algerian protocol officer who was on the flight from Tehran, said when the hostages were safely aboard the plane "they let their joy explode. They began to shout, to sing." 
Cheers rose from hundreds of U.S. military personnel and civilians gathered at the Rhine-Main base as the 52 left the DC-9s and boarded buses for the 20-mile trip to the Air Force hospital at Wiesbaden. 
More cheers went up from people packing the terrace and two bal­conies of the three-story hospital as the two buses, escorted by more than a dozen German police cruisers and U.S. military cars, entered the driveway. The grinning ex-hostages formed a single line to make their way through the crowd and entered the hospital. 
A delegation led by former Secretary of State Cyrus Vance, who headed the State Department when the U.S. Embassy and hostages were seized on feb. 4, 1979, and Ambassador Walter ). Sotessel formed a receiving line to greet the 52. 
Carter, unable to win the hostage's freedom in the closing hours of "his watch" because of last-minute delays, was scheduled to fly to Wiesbaden later today as President Reagan's envoy. 
"U.S.A., U.S.A., U.S.A." cheered the throng at the West German air base, with many people waving small American flags. The former prisoners were served a turkey dinner on the 1 ,250-mile flight from Algiers to Frankfurt. 
They had left Tehran at 12:25 p.m. EST yesterday and after a refuel­ing stop in Athens, Greece, their Algerian Boeing 7271anded in Algiers about 7 1/2 hours later. A second Boeing 727 that carried the Americans' luggage and a smaller jet with the Algerian diplomats who had served as go-betweens in the long and often frustrating negotia­tions completed the three-plane mission. 
In 95 hectic minutes televised bat·k to the U.S., the freed captives disembarked from the Algerian craft and were greeted with hugs and tears, closing the final chapter in a hostage-holding episode without precedent in modern diplomatic historv. 
Kathryn Koob and Elizabeth Ann Swift, the only women hostages, disembarked first, each wearing in her hair yellow ribbons -the sym­bol from a popular song, "Tie a Yellow Ribbon 'Round the Old Oak Tree," which came to symbolize America's wait for the captives held 444 days. . 
Next came Bruce l.aingcn, the charge d'affaires who had been the top diplomat at the U.S. Embassy in Tehran when it was seized.Nov. 4, 1979. The other hostages followed in quick succession, wavmg and 
smiling. One made a "V for Victory" sign at the television cameras, which carried the arrival in Algiers live to the U.S. Deputy Secretary ofState Warren Christopher, who headed the U.S. team that negotiated the final release agreement, and U.S. Ambassador to Algeria Ulrich Haynes, greeted the hostages as they left the Boeing 727 ofthe Algerian airline. "!'he group moved into the airport's VIP lounge, where Algerian Foelgn Minister Mohamed Benyahia, smiling and relaxed despite several sleepless nights over last-minute negotiations, said: "It is ... my duty at this moment to deliver your fellow citizens to you, Mr.Christopher, who officially represent the American govern­ment here." There was a round ofapplause from the freed hostages and Algerian and U.S. officials. "I have the great honor and privilege in affirming that you are back home and safely in our hands," Christopher responded. "This event answers our prayers and we are more than delighted to accept the responsibility ofseeing to it that you return to your homes and families." 
See WELCOME, page S 

President pledges strength, austerity 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Ronald Reagan became President of the United States yesterday, promising "an era ofnational renewal" at home and restraint but never surrender abroad. His inauguration blended the passage of power with a passage to freedom for 52 American hostages. 
"They are now free of Iran," said Reagan, little more than two hours after his inauguration. 
As Jimmy Carter yielded the presidency, Iran yielded at last the captives it had held for 444 days. And so the celebration for Reagan, the parade, pageantry, music, can­non salutes, became a celebration of their freedom, too. 
At the hour of inauguration, the promise offreedom had not become the fact of freedom, and Reagan did not mention the hostages in the 20­minutc address he directed to "this breed called Americans," countrymen he described as the heroes ofthe land. 
But the liberation of the captive Americans was the focus of his last briefings by Carter, and his first hours as the 40th president. 
And so the announcement the na­tion awaited came in his toast to congressional leaders at a traditional Capitol luncheon. 
"And now to conclude the toast, with thanks to almighty God, I have been given a tag line, the get-offline that everyone wants for the end ofa toast or a speech or anything else. 
"Some 30 minutes ago, the planes 
See PRESIDENT, page4 
ND,s Ahernheads home 
By PAUL McGINN 
News Staff 
Now that the American hostages have been released, the Notre Dame community awaits news of Thomas Ahern, class of 1954. 
According to a New York Times article of Dec. 7, 1979, Ahern's in­volvement in Iran began on June 22, I979, when he arrived at the U.S. Embassy in Tehran, hut events surrounding Ahern's position at the embassy are sketchy at best. While the U.S. upheld Ahern's diplomatic status, Iranian students accused Ahern of being a narcotics control agent and ofinterfering with Iranian domestic policies. 
The militants charged that Ahern had two passports, one American, the other Belgian. The Belgian pas­sport, said to have been found in Ahern's desk, contained the picture of a man resembling Ahern, yet the name given was Paul Timmermans. It was speculated that the Belgian passport allowed Ahern greater mobility and permitted him to remain In Iran for up to 90 days with­out securing a visa (which an American passport would require). 
While at Notre Dame, Ahern was a 
me~ber ofthe Wranglers and Hook· men, two literary discussion groups, and was a student who repeatedly appeared on the Dean's list. He earned his B.A. degree in journalism. 
***************** 
Day 444: release 
***************** 
After leaving Notre Dame, Ahern entered military service. After completing a stint, he applied to the State Department. Since that time he has traveled to the Philippines, Japan, Nigeria, and Cambodia as a 
U.S. diplomat. Ahern's family has seen him very little since he joined the department over 20 years ago. 
While a member of the State Department, he made his home in the Washington suburb ofMeLe.tn, Virginia. 
Thomas Ahern is the uncle ofMic­hael and Mary Ahern, two Notre Dame -students. When asked about the ending of the ordeal, Michael replied that this period Is a rime of relief since "the family stayed pretty quiet" during the crisis, and Mary added that the past few days had been very frustat­lng. 
Both Mary and Michael said they believed that the incident brought the family closer together. 
Mkhacl had no objection to the 
U.S. government's handling of the situation, but Mary questioned the aborted rescue attempt of last April. She expressed her gratitude to the men who lost their lives in the at­tempt and to their families, but ind­icated that the risks were far greater than the possible rewards. 
To Mary, the negotiations carric:d out the best possible solution to the situation. 
Both of the students criticized the press. They said that after the aborted helicopter rescue attempt, members ofthe press called Thomas Ahern's home at 5 a.m. Another inci­dent they objected to occurred last Christmas when some media people waited on the front steps of their home for ten hours to interview a member ofthe Ahern family. 
As Michael summed it up, "They (the press) think we're the first to know." 
According to Mary and Michael, the worst times for the family during the ortleal were the first Thanksgiv­ing and Christmas, and the: aborted rescue: mission. 
~~~ScL=l=~==i=~~~=S========~====================w==ed=n=es=d=~=,J=m=u=ruy==2=I=,I=9=8=I==p=a=ge~2 
by The Observer and The Associated Press 
Send in the clowns 
In the end,Jimmy Carter's last hours as president were a microcosm ofhis last year: He waited for the American hostages to be freed. The long. weary, frustrating wait ofthe last 14 months occupied his final hours. He spent the night in the Oval Office and was attending to the hostage settlement evenas he prepared to ride to the Capitolfor Ronald Reagan's inauguration. At 3:19a.m., Carter spoke to Deputy Secretary of State Warren Christopher, who remained in Algiers where he had negotiated the agreement. The president instructed him to move as quickly as possible to get the required signatures on the escrow agreement. At 5:30 a.m., Treasury Secretary G. William Miller told Carter that the frozen Iranian funds had been placed In an account , in the Bank ofEngland. At 6:47a.m. EST, less than 12 hours before the formal transfer of power to his successor, Carter was informed by Miller that the frozen Iranian assets had been moved to an escrow account. That final action completed Carter's end of the laboriously negotiated deal. With him in the Oval Office throughout the long night were his onetime chief of stall, Hamilton Jordan; his Atlanta friend, Charles Kirbo; his vice president, Walter F. Mondale and Miller. 
-AP 
Stockprices tumbledyesterday after Ronald Reagan was sworn in as the nation's 40th president and the American hostages were flown to freedom after 444 days of captivity in Iran. The Dow jones average of30 Industrial stocks, up .85 at noon when Reagan took office, fell rapidly after that and closed down 20.31 at 950.68. The market was slightly up in early trading. but it began falling as the hostages were flown out ofIran, and the drop intensified in late after­noon. The inauguration decline was far from unprecedented. It has been 20 years since the market rose on a day a new president took office. 1bc: Dow jones industrial average rose 1.98 to 634.37 on Jan. 20, 1961, whenjohn F. Kennedy took the oath. Four years ago, when Jimmy Carter began his term, the Dowaverage fell 9.64 to 959.03, but it recovered and the market rose during his term. -AP 
A fox shot and killed a 38-year-oid hunter in central Yugoslavia, the official Yugoslav news agencyTanjug reported yester­day. Salih Hajdur, a farmer from the village of Gornje Hrasno in the Republic of Bosnia-Hercegovina, went to a nearby forest Sunday to shoot a fox, Tanjug said. Hajdur wounded a fox in the leg, the agency said, but to spare the skin he did not fire again. Instead, he hit the animal with his rifle butt. The struggling animal triggered a shot that hit Hajdur in the chest and killed him instantly, Tanjug said. The fox died later, Tanjug added. -AP 
Ajohn Lennon "Peace Forest" will be begun by Israeli children next month in memory of the slain former Beatie, Israeli authorities said. The forest, to be planted byJewish and Arab youths in the mountainous Galilee region, was the idea ofa group ofOrthodox Jewish immigrants from the United States who collected money for the project from Galilee residents and Jews living abroad. Press reports said Yoko Ono, the widow of the superstar shot to death in New York last month, has promised to compose a song for the forest's dedication. -AP 
jeanE. Postlewaitehas been appointed to the position of Assistant Director of Information Services for Notre Dame by Ric­hard W. Conklin, director. She succeeds Diane Wilson, who held that position for six years. Ms. Postlewaite will be responsible for media relations with the University, primarily in the College ofEngineering, the departments of sociology and anthropology and psychology and the areas of gerontological studies, the Center for the Pastoral and Social Ministry, Lobund Laboratory and the Radiation Laboratory. She was previously public information and publications coordinator for the National Center for Law and the Handicapped in South Bend and editor of its journal,ttmicus. She worked in England for two years as sub-editor and reporter for the London-based newspaper while her husband, Philip F. Postlewaite, was directing the Notre Dame London Law Program. Ms. Postlewaite holds a B.A. in political science and an 
M.S. in journalism from the University ofCalifornia at Berkeley. -The Obseroer 
Americans are trusted more by residents of the ten European Common Market nations now than they were four ye~rs ago, but Soviets are looked upon more warily, acco~di~g to ~n offictal poll. The poll taken by the Common Market Commtsswn .satd 68 p~r­cent of the economic community's residents trust Amencans, an m­crease of 7 percent from 1976. The trust rating for Russians declined from 22 to 20 percent in four years. Greece, which just joined the Common Market this month, was the only country to rate Soviets over Americans on the trustworthiness scale. Americans were most popular in West Germany, where 78 percent ofthe people expressed 
a feeling of trust. -AP 
Marine Pre. RobertGarwoodsuffered no mental 
disease or defect "and appreciated the criminality of his actions" in 
Vietnam, a Navy psychiatrist said yesterday. Capt. Patrick F. O'Connell 
rebutted testimony by defense-called psychiatric witnesses in Gar­
wood's court martial. The 34-year-old Adams, Ind. native is being tried 
on charges ofdesertion and collaboration with the enemy. O'Connell, 
chiefofpsychiatric and neurological services at the Naval Aerospace 
Medical Institute in Pensacola, Fla., is the first ofseveral rebuttal wit­
nesses the government will introduce in what Is shaping up as "the 
battle of the psychiatrists." The defense case rests almost entirely on 
the claim that Garwood, who disappeared from his Marine unit in 
Vietnam in September 1965 and reappeared 14 years later in 1979, 
Wll!> "coercively persuaded" to collaborate. -AP 
Partly cloudy and co~l today. High i~ the low and mid 30s. Clear and cold tonight. Low m the low and mtd 20s. Mostly sunny tomorrow with highs in the mid to upper 30s. -AP 
The circus came to town for a few days. Without lions and tigers, sword-swallowers and fire-eaters. But there were plenty of clowns costumed in formal morning suits complete with striped grey trousers and white­pleated front shirts milling around on Pennsylvania Avenue, jesting with the bystanders. It was the main event that really stole the show, however, when Ronnie Reagan returned to the ringside. 
Yes, it looks like Rambling Ron has definitely returned to the center ring. And all one had to do to catch a glimpse of this "Greatest Show This Side of the Northern Hemisphere" was turn on the tube, grab a comfortable chair and settle down for the fun and games. 
The show started offwith a bang. On Saturday night, Washington, D.C., was set ablaze by 10,000 shooting multi-colored rockets. For 14 minutes, the skies of D.C. looked like the backdrop for a Stars Wars shoot-out scene. Down south in Longhorn country, an added sideshow featured George B. and the kids gussied up in black-tie garb and boots, dosey-doeingto some good ol' country tunes at a good ol' country hoe-down. 
On the following day, under the bright lights of the main tent of the Kennedy Arts Center, Ron and Nancy sat attentively while holding hands and balloons through 
The last remaining show day dawned. Despite some Observer Notes heavy rumblings from outside the Big Tent, the Show 
polished limos. The Reagans requested the affair to be 
"short and snappy" so as to accommodate the one hour allotted TV air time. Consequently, only 20 high school bands were granted the imperial go-ahead to march, including one band from Reagan's home town, Dixon, Ill. Also weaving their way down the crowded avenue were 26 equestrian groups and three dogsled teams. It was certainly extraordinary to watch dogsled teams race past the Capitol Building in a fleeting flurry offur and paw. 

was still. The Circus was over. 
Don't worry. Ifyou did not get a chance to watch this year's show and would like to have a little something to remember it by, you will soon be receiving in the mail your very own free 14-page color brochure that describes cenain "collectibles" that every bl!le­blooded American man and woman should own. For example, for the men there is a Frederick Remington bronze bust of RR, list-priced at Sl,875, that would make a dandy paperweight. And for the ladies, a por­celain "Nancy Reagan" rose is available for a mere S650. It could just be that certain something to brighten up your otherwise dull and dreary living room. For those who would like to be the first on the block to own an authentic Reagan license plate -it could be yours for 
four hours ofmusical perfor­
$25. mances ranging from There were some moans bluegrass to balleL The and groans about the chosen incoming "First and Second theme and projected cost of Ladles" of the White House this year's show as proved that the guys are not compared to previous the only ones who can have shows. Some of the regulars fun. Nancy and Babs Bush in tho.: troupe complained toasted a "distinguished that their downsults were ladies" reception for a mere too "stiff'' while others cried 7,000 socialites. that Sl1 million for the 
A circus is nothing with­week-long show was just a out a parade, and what a bit much. Needless to say, a parade it was. Thousands few feathers were ruffied, lined up to see the incoming but on the whole a jolly, First Family drive down Pen­swell time was had by all. nsylvania Avenue in black Even the previous show's 
ringmaster, JC, bared his in­
famous ear-to-ear grin, al­though his suit, (even he must admit), did not look as "comfortable" as those ofthe rest ofthe company. 
So if you did not catch a glimpse of the 1980 circus, do not feel blue, because one day, perhaps in the near future, it will come to town again. Some say it will return in '84. Others just do not care to speculate. As for me, send in the clowns anytime. 
had to go on. And it did, although ticket prices weren't In Monday'sObseroer it was reported that signups for exactly on the cheap side -up to S10,000 per seat. Placement Bureau interviews will be held at noon on Over 19,000, however, oohed and aahed at Ole Mr. Tuesdays. That time has since been changed to8 a.m. on Blue Eyes as he did it his way during the scintillating, Tuesdays in LaFortune Student Center. star-studded spectacle. Debby Boone, however, did not A Charlie Chaplin film series sponsored by the light up anything, least ofall our lives. Charleton Heston English department will feature films on consecutive should have stuck with the Ten Commandments. And Tuesdays through April28 at 7 p.m., except for the Feb. Donny Osmond...well...it's hopeless. This is one time 3 presentation, which will be shown at 9 p.m. An article that even the grimy soap-sud commercials looked good. in Monday's Observer stated the times incorrectly. 
Finally the last ripple of applause died. The Big Tent L-------------------~ 

JJesign Editor ................ Deirdre Murphy Design Assistants .............. Diane Mazurek 
Patty Hulley, Michael Ortman Typesetter ............................... Bruce Oakley News Editor .............................. Lynne Daley Copy Editor.............................. Kathy Casey Sports Copy Editor ......... Michael Ortman Typists .......................................... Mike Monk 
Deirdre Murphy. Lynne Daley Systems Control ..................... Marty Hynes ND Day Editor ...................... Molly Woulfe Pbotograpber ....................... Rachel Blount Ad Design ....... Dave Wood, Jeanne Laboe Guest Appearances ............ Many multiple letterssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss 
The Observer (USPS 598 920) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is published by the students of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $20 per year ($1 0 per semester) by writing The Observer, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproductionrights are reserved. 
, 

..•.•••.•...•..•••.••••.•••••....••••.............• 
~ ATTENTIONJUNIOR CLASS
'·················································· 
Seating for President's Dinner Junior Parent's Weekend LaFortune Main Lounge Thurs., Jan. 22,7-10 p.m. Fri., Jan. 23,6-9 p.m. 
························•·························· 
For Seating Arrangements tJ;le Following In­
formation Is Necessruy: 
1 )Each person may bring 3 ID's total (including his own)
1 I 
I 
2) Parents' full names and home addresses will be required for each student ID. 
3) Number ofpeople attending per family.
IFor those wishing to sit together involving more than one table, there must be one representative per table to make seating arrangements. 
We will not sign up anyone who does not have the above in­
formation o< who ha> not «turned <e,;e.-vatlom fm the p~,;-~dent's Dinner. 
................................................... 
Maximum Seating Per Table: 9 !...~..~..~..~..~~~~~~~ 
The Observer Wednesday, january 21, 1981 -page 3 
Security Council 
Reagan picks ND alumnus 
Due to the lack of a dec~nt place to stage a campus·wide party or dance, the Student Union has been making use of the dining halls for so· cial space and has, at best, met with limited success. 
The Student Union has held two parties and one dance in the North dining hall and has set up the Oak Room cafe in South dining hall. 
"The first party we held in North dining hall, the Halloween party, was very successful," said Tom Drouillard, Student Union social commissioner. "The other two did not go very well." 
Many of those who had shown up for the Suburban Cowboy dance left because the band was late by almost two hours. The New Kill On Tbe Quad was very unsuccessful. according to Drouillard. "We had at most around 40 people at one time at the party." He also commented that the Oak Room Cafe was losing money. 
''We have been using tht· dining halls for lack of a better place on campus to hold dances and parties," Drouillard said. "Unfortunately, the dining halls are not an attractive place for students to par~y. We really need the University to build a place sp<:cifically for such a purpose." 
Philosophic 
essays to be published 
Myth, Symbol and Rea/tty, a st·ries of essays by some of today's leading thinkers, is the first volume of the series "Boston Uniw:rsity Studies in Philosophy and Religion" being published by the University Press in cooperation with the Bos­ton University Institute for 
Philosophy and Religion. 
Edited by Alan M. Olson, assistant professor of religion at Boston Uni­versity and program coor~inator at the institute, Myth, Symbol and Rea/tty explores the relatlonsWp be­tween the three and asks the ques­ton: "Do myths and symbols have anything to tell us about reality?" 
Ten scholars contribute to the book, Including Elle Wiesel, author of I 7 books and Mellon Professor in the Humanities at Boston University; Dennis Tedlock, specialist in American Indian culture and as­sociate professor of anthropology at Boston University; Howard Clark Kee, author ofJesus in History and professor at Boston University's School of Theology, and Herbert Mason, whose Gllgamesb: a Verse Narrative was nominated for a Na­tional Book Award In 1971. 
The Student Union does not have any parties planned for the dining halls for the rest of this semester. "I do not see any more parties in the dining halls unless we have a big theme like Halloween," said Dr<>uil­lard. "The most successful party of last semester was the block party held outside. We have received many compliments on it even though it was a cold night. We will probably hold another one on the south quad this spring." 
Murder investigation continues in Liberty 
UBERTY, Texas (AP) -The sheriff investigating the shooting death of former Texas House Speaker Price Daniel Jr. said author­ities "know who did it," but were waiting yesterday for an autopsy report and to question the dead man's wife. 
The 39-year-old Daniel, son and namesake of one of the state's most prominent political leaders, was found shot Monday night in a hall be­tween the kitchen and carport at his home in this southeast Texas town. Officials said he was slain with a .22­caliber rifle found in a bedroom of the house. 
His wife recently filed for divorce. 
Liberty County SheriffC.L. "Buck" Eckols said no charges were filed im­mediately. He said no action would be taken until he received the autopsy report and questioned Daniel's wife, Vickie. 
Mrs. Daniel was taken to a hospital and sedated after her husband's shooting. She remained hospitalized yesterday. 
Court records show Mrs. Daniel filed for divorce about 20 days ago, stating she and her husband were separated last Dec. 29. Her petition cited a conflict of personalities with no hope of reconciliation. Records also revealed a court order Mrs. Daniel requested that prohibited her husband from disposing of property until a hearing tomorrow. 
Eckols said the house was in per­fect order, and "food was even being prepared on the stove when we arrived." 
He said the only people home at the time of the shooting were Daniel, Mrs. Daniel and three young children. Two of the children were Daniel's and his wife's, and the third was Mrs. Daniel's by a previous mar­riage. 
He said Mrs. Daniel had called for an ambulance, crying, "Price has been hurt." Several people who arrived after the shooting said Mrs. Daniel was hysterical and screamed for someone to help her husband. 
Daniel served three terms in the 
"I don't think he (Allen) looks on himself as a policy initiator, but as more of a policy coordinator," Niemeyer explained. 
Allen graduated in 1957, earning his master's degree one year later. Niemeyer remembered Allen as "outspoken" in his beliefs. "He had very independent political judge­ment as a student," Niemeyer said. 
After leaving ND, Allen pursued a doctorate In communist ideology in Munich, West Germany. This was made possible by a scholarship 

The recent rash of bicycle thefts bas prompted many shopping­
which Allen obtained with 
cart owners to chain up their investments, also. (Photo by Rachel
Niemeyer's assistance. In 1962 Allen 
Blount)
helped in founding the Georgetown University Center for Strategic and International Studies. 
Allen served for a short time on the National Security Council during the Nixon administration. It is believed that his resignation from the Council after only ten months of service was brought about by clashes with Henry Kissinger, who at that time was National Security Ad­visor. "He (Allen) and Kissinger didn't get along," Niemeyer recalled. 
Before serving as foreign policy advisor to Ronald Reagan, Allen had worked as an international business consultant. 
Niemeyer called Allen "industrious," both in academics and in international affairs, and also "lucky." According to Niemeyer, "breaks have always come his (Allen's) way." 

By TIM VERCELLOTTI 
SeniorStaffReporter 
A Notre Dame alumnus has been tapped by the Reagan administration to play a key role In coordinating foreign policy. Richard V. Allen was called upon to fill the post of Chair­r .an of the National Security Coun­cil earlier this month. 
Allen, who had previously served as a foreign policy expert on the Reagan transition team, pledges to remain In the background In U.S. foreign policy as National Security Advisor. When General Alexander Haig's appointment as Secretary of State was announced, Allen told the press that he was "about to sub­merge." 
In recent years, the post ofNation· al Security Advisor has been held by men who have made their presence known, namely Henry Kissinger and Zbigniew Brzezinski. Allen promises to reverse this trend. 
Dr. Gerhart Niemeyer, a professor emeritus in the government depart· ment, taught Allen while Allen was pursuing his Bachelor's and Master's degrees In government and lnterna· tiona) studies at ND. Niemeyer predicted that Allen will place more emphasis on the organization than on the creation of U.S. foreign policy. 
Campus dining halls fail to attract partiers 
House of Representatives, and was speaker in 1973-75. His father, Price Daniel Sr., was Texas governor, U.S. senator and state attorney general and a Texas Supreme Court justice. 
Young Daniel made a bid to 
January Opmbecome Texas attorney general but was defeated in the Democratic 
0 'Laughlin Auditorium 
primary. Recently, he worked as a lawyer and taught at Texas Southern 
Tickets available inS. U. Ticket Office 
University, South Texas School of · Law and the University of Houston. 

STUDENT UNIONRECORDSTORE......................................--..................WE'VE MOVED! 
LOCATION: first floor LaFortune HOURS: Mon-Fri 9:00-5:0U WHAT: orderingMon-Weds 9:00-5:00 
Thurs 9:00-12:00noon 
IN STOCK SPECIALS Springsteen -RIVER Elvis Costello-TAKING LIBERTIES Grover Washington-WINE LIGHT john Lennon -DOUBLE FANTASY Earl Klugh -LATENIGHTGUITAR Eagles -LIVE 
PRICES: LIST YOU PAY TAPES 

VAN LINES IS BACK 
STARTS THIS WEEKEND 
Every Friday  6 ­ 12 pm  
Saturday 4 -12 pm  .50 round trip  
Departs Main Circle  ON THE HOUR  

(pay as you board, no tickets ) TOWN & COUNTRY­UNIVERSITY PARK-FORUM-and more 
The Observer 
Security limits parking in two overflowing lots 
By DIANE MAZUREK 
News Staff 
The decision to discontinue the sale ofparking decals for lots C-6 and D-6 was issued by Security Director Glenn Terry and will be in effect for the rest ofthe spring term. 
This directive was due in part, said Terry, "to an over-stocking of that lot." Built this year, the lot holds cars from several halls -and not necces­sarily the closest ones. According to Terry, crowding was getting ridiculously out of hand when it became not uncommon to see cars lining the adjacant street. 
This situation could have been avoided had permission to park in these lots been withheld from patrcns of the golf course, off­campus and IU students not enrolled in the ROTC program and from stu­dents who were not reasonably close to the lot. Terry's remedy for the crowded lot consists ofassigning parking spaces closest to the buyer's residence. 
"There's plenty of good parking for off-campus students' cars in the south lot," Terry said. "Those lots aren't that good for off-campus stu­dents going to classes anyway," as they are set on the opposite side of the South quad from most class buildinp. 
Withan expected increase in both the coming spring and fall semes­ters, some have expressed anxieties concerning the university's ability to accomodate an increase of vehicles. Ifthe sale ofstickers is bet­ter regulated in favor of the Notre Dame students, Terry foresees no problem. 
No plans for additional parking space have been discussed. "Notre Dame is a pedestrian campus and is listed as such. There's just no way everyone coming here can have a car," concluded Terry. 
CCEhead named to committee 
Dr. Thomas P. Bergin, director of the Center for Continuing Educa­tion at the University ofNotre Dame, has been appointed to the national advisory committee of Young Audiences Incorporated. 
Founded 27 years ago, Young Audiences, Inc. is a national arts-in­education organization consisting of a network of 39 chapters located across the country in both metropolitan and regional areas. Its program annually contracts the services of more than 1,500 artists who reach 2.5 million school children in 5,200 schools through some 14,000 performances and residency workshops. 
A past chairman ofthe Indian Arts Commission, Bergin is a member of the National Council on the Arts and is former chairman of the National Endowment for the Arts "Artists-in­Schools" program. 
The Young Audiences, Inc. na­tional advisory committee includes 
several  noted  musicians,  among  
them  Aaron  Copeland,  Claude  
Frank,  Lorin  Hollander,  Itzhak  

Perlman, Isaac Stern, and Pinchas Zukerman. 
Advancement~ 
Not Require An 
Advanced Degree 
You can sp~nd another two to three years 1n graduate school oryou can tum four years of liberal arts education into a practical, challenging and rewarding career in just three months-as an Employee Benefit Specialist. 
Benefits today amount from 30 to 35 percent ofwages and salaries. Recent pension legislation has created even more demand for trained specialists. As an Employee Benefit Specialist you 'II be called upon to excercise your own judgement, initiative and intelligence in a challenging, professional environment with progressive responsibility. 
The Institute tor Employee Benefits Training is the first and most prestigious school in the United States, training Employee Benefits and Pension Specialists. This is a dynan1k, growing career field in which advancement does not re1quire an advanced degree. Our graduates are in demand by law firms, pension consulting firms, insurance companies, banks, and personnel and benefits departments of corporations. The Institute's Placement Service will place you too. It not, you will be eligible tor a substantial tuition refund 
Furthermore, you will earn graduate credit towards a Master of Arts in Legal Studies through Antioch School of Law for all course work completed at The lnstitLJte. 
If you're a senior of high acc.demic standing and looking tor a meaningful career, contact )'our Placement Office tor our catalog and arrange to have an interview with our repre­sentative. 
We will visit your campus on: 
WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 28, 1981 
The 
Employee 
Benefits 
Training 
(Operated by Para-Legal, Inc.) 
Approved by The American Bar Association 
Programs Earn Full Credit Toward M.A. in Legal Studies 
through Antioch School of Law. 
Wednesday,January 21, 1981 -page 4 

• • .President 
Continuedfrom page 1 
In his first act as president, Reagan signed the executive order he promised would clamp a freeze on federal hiring. "It will be my inten­tion to curb the size and influence ofthe federal establishment..." he said in the inaugural address. He said he did not mean to do away with government but, rather, "to make it work." 
A crowd estimated at 70,000 people watched the rite at the West 
Sign-ups in dorms for fast 
In all dorms this Wednesday, from II a.m.-I am. and 4 p.m. -6 p.m. You are encouraged to pledge to fast for the hungry and downtrodden. Last semester over SI 1,600 was raised to support coummunities who are helped to help themselves. The program is sponsored by the world hunger coalition. 
This Wednesday lunch fast begins Feb. 4 and extends twelve con­;;ecutive Wednesdays excluding >pring break. 
bearing our -prisoners left Iranian airspace and they are now free of' Iran. So we can all drink to this one ­to all of us together, doing what we all know we can do, to make this country what it should be, what it can be, what it always has been." 
It was the announcement Carter had waited so long to make himself, but it came too late for him. So Presi­dent Reagan made it, while citizen Carter flew home to Georgia. 
Back in Plains, Carter made his own announcement to townspeople 
· turned out to welcome him home: "Just a few moments ago on Air Force One ... I received word offi­cially for the fJCSt time that the aircraft carrying the 52 American hostages had cleared Iranian airspace on the first leg of the jour­ney home and that every one of the 52 hostages was alive and well and free." 
He added, "We've kept faith with our principles and our people and as a result we've reached this day ofjoy and thanksgiving." 
At the stroke ofnoon, presidential power passed from James Earl Car­ter, Jr. of Georgia to Ronald Wilson Reagan of California, 69, the oldest man ever to take office, former movie actor, former governor of California, conservative Republican. 
"With all the creative energy at our command, let us begin an era of national renewal," Reagan said in his inaugural address. "Let us renew our determination, our courage and our 
strength. Let us renew our faith and our hope. We have every right to dream heroic dreams." 

front ofthe Capitol, the monuments of American government, of Was­hington and Jefferson and Lincoln, shining in the sunlight of a mild January day. Reagan called those men "the giants on whose shoulders we stand." 
Thousands more assembled along the 16-block route of the inaugural parade. There were clusters of demonstrators among them, against draft registration, against the Ku Klux Klan, for the Equal Rights Amendment. 
Reagan and his wife rode the ceremonial oute of presidents, down Pennsylvania Avenue at the head of their own parade, standing to wave from the open roof of a black limousine. 
It was a day offamiliar rituals and 
celebrations  heightened  by  the  
release ofthe hostages.  
Carter, the 39th president,  was  

but a spectator at the Capitol as Reagan raised his right hand, put his left on a Bible that belonged to his mother Nellie, and swore the simple oath by which every president vows to preserve, protect and defend the Constitution. 
Chief Justice Warren Burger intoned the oath Reagan repeated: 
"I do solemnly swear that I will faithfully execute the office of Presi­dent ofthe United States, and will, to the best of my ability, preserve, protect and defend the Constitution ofthe United States." 
"So help me God," he added. Reagan began the oath at four 
minutes to noon, his wife Nancy at his side. A 21-gun salute sounded over the Capitol, echoed along the Mall beyond. Carter joined the ap­plause, the trademark smile on his lips. 
Moments before, George Bush took the almost identical oath ofthe vice president, administered by Justice Potter Stewart. "God bless you, George," said Stewart, a Yale University classmate. 
Yesterday's inaugural address was vintage Reagan, even to the index cards from which he read it. 
Confronting economic ills he called a cns1s, Reagan said "government is not the solution to our problem; government is the problem." That was a constant theme in the campaign that brought him landslide election on Nov. 4. 
Reagan said the woes of inflation, unemployment, burdensome taxa­tion will not go away in days, weeks or months, "but they will go away." 
"We must act today in order to preserve tomorrow," he said. "And let there be no misunderstanding ­we are going to act beginning today." 
r------------------------~--------~-----­
Wednesday, january 21, 1981 -page 5 
\ 
\' \t\\\ 
\ ' ...\
' • 
,,, ·~ 
l' ,~
• r ' ' ~· 
-~ \. 
I 
' 

A fire escape on the back ofthe Administration Buildingprovides a skeleton for this massive frozen waterfall (Photo by Rachel Blount) 
Music celebrates release 
By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS 
Church bells pealed joyously from mighty cathedrals and tiny churches, sirens walled and lowered flag.~ were hoisted back to the tops of the staffs yesterday as the word sprcad across a frustrated nation that the 52 American hostages were free at last. 
Neighbors began singing 'God Bless America'. 
Baltimore and Laurel, Mont., San Francisco and Bay City, Mich. 
The carillon ofthe Cathedral ofSt. John the Divine in New York City pealed for an hour while other church bells rang in Cortland, N.Y., and in numerous other towns and cities. 
In Olyphant, Pa., Harry Metrlnko, father of hostage Michael Metrinko, called Mayor John Chichilla and said, "They're in the air." 
"Great," the mayor replied. "We're going to make some noise for you." 
Horn blasts and whistles quickly sounded throughout the town and neighbors who had been waiting at the house since dawn began signing "God Bless America" 
Hoisted on the shoulders of state officials. Massachusetts House Speaker Thomas W. McGee, raised the flag at the Statehouse to the top of its staff for the first time since the storming of the U.S. embassy in Iran. 
"I haven't been so happy at a flag­raising since lwo," said McGee, a Marine veteran who was on hand for the hisoric planting of an American flag on the island oflwoJima during World War II. 
• • .Welcome 
Continuedfrom page 1 
Christopher thanked the Algerian government for its role as inter­mediary, saying, "Today's events would not be taking place without the role ofyour government." 
The ex-hostages boarded the two U.S. military airplanes in two groups for the flight to Wiesbaden. Those whose last names began with Athrough K were in the first plane and those with names begin­ning with Lthrough Z were in tt)e second aircraft. 
In Athens, where the Algerian aircraft made an 80-minute refueling stop, U.S. Ambassador to Greece Robert McCloskey did not board the aircraft but said, "I was assured 52 were aboard and that has been certified in Tehran by the Swiss ambassador." 
After leaving a still-secret location in Tehran, the captives were driven in a bus to the airport and then escorted one by one by guards to the plane through a crowd of revolutionary guards, some waving their ftsts and chanting "Death to America" and "God is great." 
Film shown on Iranian television showed no joy in the faces of the hostages, although several had strained smiles. 
In the U.S., elated countrymen spread the news with pealing church bells and blaring sirens, and offered prayers of thanks that the burden of444 days in captivity had been lifted. 
The national Christmas tree in Wa'ihington, D.C., dark for he past two Christmas seasons, was lit. 
fhree Algerian jets roared through the night skies in the freedom flight over the Middle East. According to the Athens control tower, one Boeing 727 carried the hostages, a second Bocin 727 held their belongings and a third smaller jet was for the Algerian diplomats w.ho served as go-betweens in the long and frustrating neg~tiations for the Americans' freedom. · 
The red and white Algerian craft had taken off from Tehran's airport at about 12:30 p.m. EST, eight minutes after the presidency ofthe U.S. passed from Jimmy Carter to Ronald Reagan. 
Asked if the timing was intentional, an editor at Iran's official Pars news agency told a reporter: "What do you think?" Those final minutes of delay cheated Carter of the satisfaction of For the hostage 1..milies, long months of fear and disappointment melted into joy. 
"They're In the air!" shouted the Rev. Earl Lee of Pasadena, Calif., father of hostage Gary Lee. "My heart Is just filled with an amazing sense ofthanksgiving." 
Some tempered joy with caution. "I won't believe it until I see them land," said Vivian Homeyer, sister ofhostage Kathryn Koob, at a family gathering In Wellsburg. Iowa In Athens, U.S. Ambassador Robert McCloskey sent a bouquet of flowers to the hostages, butdid not board the plane, and no one disem­barked. 
In Tehran, Behzad Nabavi, the chiefhostage negotiator, announced the occupied U.S. Embassy would remain in the hands of the Iranian government because "Iran will not have political or economic rela­tions with the United States in the future." 
Bold white letters on the black gates of the embassy on Taleghani Street in central Tehran declared "Long Uve Islam" and "Death to Reagan." 
,--Do You Know?----. 
Is "FIGHTING IRISH BEER" available at yourfavorite Pub, Saloon, Bar, Tavern ordrinking emporium? ASK-orcontacta Leprechaun. 
People: watching the inauguration of Ronald Reagan as president broke into cheers and uncorked cham­pagne when the news came that the freedom Oights had finally left Teh­ran after 444 exasperating days. 
"We can all drink to this one," Reagan said, former President Jim­my Carter told reporters upon his ar­rival back in his home state of Georgia, "I couldn't be happier." 
Officials at the state and local levds organized celebrations and observances in Florida, Idaho, Maryland, California, Tennessee, Ohio, Michigan and elsewhere. 
Streets were festooned with fresh yellow ribbons to replace those that had faded during the long ordeal. 
Many people simply offered prayers of thanksgiving. 
The jubilant parents of hostage Gary Lee stripped the hostage bracelets off their wrists and tossed them on a coffee table at their home in Pasadena, Calif. 
"They're In the air!" exclaimed Rev. Earl Lee, pa!>tor of the First Church ofthe Nazarene. 
"He's not a ho!.tage!" ad~d his wife, Hazel. 
Civil Defense s.lrens In Albu­querque, N.M., "J~ailed lbr 444 seconds, while fire .,.ngines screamed in such tvcrsc places as 
-------· .,.,____ 
VOCATION RETREAT 
[p[UJ~[p(Q)~~ to help you consider the priesthood in the Congregation of Holy Cross 
[Q)8tf~~ Friday, February 13 7:00p.m.  to  Saturday, February 14 12:00p.m.  
[p[L8t(C~ Moreau Seminary  
~~~~~U~ffi\U~(Q)[M by no cost  calling the Vocation Office ­6385  


'JesusPreaching to thePeople" is oneof64 majorreligiousetchings completedby thefamed 17th centuryDutch artist, Rembrandt, and is nowon exhibit in the Snite Museum ofArtatthe University ofNotre Dame. 
Water control 
The Observer 

~Is ther~~~~~~wed b~ 
Leprechauns? Ifthere is its probably called 
"FIGHTING IRISH" 
DORMLIFE CRAMPING YOUR STYLE? 

NOTRE DAME 
AVE. APTS 
2bedrooms completely furnished complete kitchen off-street parking up to 4 students $340-$360/month 
call234-664 7 
Wednesday, January 21, 1 
speakers for '81 fe 
By MARY FRAN CALLAHAN 
SeniorCopy Editor 
Four authors have accepted offers to attend the 1981 Sophomore Literary Festival, according to SLF ChairmanJane Barber. 
Novelist John Powers whose works include The Last Catholic in America and Do Black Patent Leat­her Shoes Really Reflect Up?, a play which has been touring the nation's stages for months, will attend the Festival. Powers is known for his satirical viewpoints on diehard Cat· holicism. 
Seamus Heaney, a poet from Ireland, will also appear. Heaney's works, which are quite extensive, in­clude: Boy Driving His Father to Confession, Wintering Out, North, andDoor inlto the Dark. 
Margaret Atwood, a Canadian poet who is accruing literary ex­posure in the United States, will also attend the Festival. Miss Atwood has authored such books as Survival: A Thematic Guide to Canadian Literature, Two-Headed Poems, Double Persephone and Procedures for Underground. 
Romulus Linney, a New York-
Battle reaches Supreme Court 
SACRAMENTO, Calif (AP)-The traditional struggle between federal and state governments over control of Western water returns to the U.S. Supreme Court today, with environ­mentalists -for a change -pulling for the federal side. 
The case involves control of two key water projects in California, and 16 states have joined California to challenge a 1979 federal appeals court ruling that an 1899 law re­quires the state to get federal per­mits for the projects from the Army Corps of Engineers. 
WEDNESDAY-~============== 
:=====================FOCUS 
The ruling, ifupheld, would make the corps "a kind of super water agency" in the West, said California Deputy Attorney General Roderick Walston. 
On the other side are environ­
mental groups like the Sierra Club 
and Friends of the Earth who say 
such water profects promote uncon­
trolled growt and hurt the environ­
ment. 
Those groups want the federal government, including the courts, to serve as a last line of defense against state decisions on water projects and water distribution, so crucial in the economy of the arid West. 
The two California projects in limbo are an existing pumping plant, which the state wants to expand, on the Sacramento-San Joaquin Delta and the Peripheral Canal, a proposed 43-mile ditch around the delta that would greatly increase northsouth water flow. 
The delta, stretchingeast from the 
San Francisco and San Pablo bays to 
inland shipping channels leading to 
Sacramento and Stockton, is the hub 
of the State Water Project. The 
project pumps water from the delta 
to the main southbound aqueduct, 
and to water contractors south and 
east ofSan Francisco. 
The Supreme Court is scheduled 
to hear oral arguments today, with a 
ruling expected later this year. State 
officials say they are worried about 
what conditions or allocation re­
quirements the Corps of Engineers 
might impose if the court upholds 
the'permit requirements. 
------------------------··_, ···--­
__,_.,_ 
The corps "could determine that Los Angeles should get more water as against the Central Valley, or just the opposite," said Walston, the state's lawyer in the appeal. However, it is not clear that the corps would have that authority, or would choose to exercise it. 
The possibility of federal control has prompted Arizona, Colorado, Idaho, Kansas, Montana, Nebraska, Nevada, New Mexico, North Dakota, Oklahoma Oregon, South Dakota, Texas, Utah, Washington and Wyoming to submit a" written argu­ment supporting California. 
The Supreme Court addressed a similar issue in 1978, ruling that federal water projects could be made to comply with state law, ifthe law didn't conflict with the intent of Congress. 
In the case prompting that suit, California -then backed by the en­vironmentalists -has delayed fil­ling a federally built reservoir behind the New Melones Dam on the Stanislaus River in the Sierra Nevada. But alliances are reversed in the curent suit, which involves state rat­her than federal water projects. 
"We would much rather keep the decision in the state rather than in Washington," said Clifford Schultz, lawyer for the Kern County Water Agency, one of several water sup­pliers entering the case on the state's side. 
Schultz said the 1899 Rivers and 
Harbors Act is "an old navigation 
statute that the Sierra Club is trying 
to turn into a federal environmental 
protection statute." 
The scope of the 82-year-old law, which requires federal permits for projects that alter navigble water­ways, has become the central issue ofthe current case. 
The state claims the law applies only to projects that have a "substantial effect on navigation," Walston said. He acknowledged the pumping plant and the canal could affect delta navigation in the future by lowering wate levels, but said the effect would be minimal. 
Robert Thurn, a San Francisco lawyer for the Sierra Club, said the 1899 law probably was intended to stop peopie from building bridges or dams that would impede shipping, but has taken on new meaning. 
"There is a series of cases saying the Rivers and Harbors Act can be based playwright best known for his playThe Sorrows ofFrederick, is also scheduled to attend. 
According to Barber, more aut­
hors are in the process of accepting 
invitations to appear at Notre Dame, 
but she declined to release any 
names -pending further negotia­
tions. This year's Sophomore 
Literary Festival will span the first 
week ofMarch. Authors customarily 
lecture, present workshops and 
meet informally with students. 
Recital set for Jan. 22 at LeMans 
Bruce Gustafson will present a recital of baroque harpsichord music at 8 p.m. on Thursday,Jan. 22, in Stapleton Lounge, LeMans Hall, on the Saint Mary's College campus. The concert will be open to the public without charge. 
used by the Corps of Engineers to protect environmental interests," he said. 
'History has caught up with the Rivers and Harbors Act." 
The argument is that as soon as a project threatens or has any harmful effect on navigable waters, the entire project comes under federal authority. 
Environmental groups contend the pumping plant has hurt delta water quality, disrupted fish migra­tion and contributed to deteriorat­ing water quality in San Francisco Bay. They make many of the same arguments against the S600 million Peripheral Canal. 
The case now before the Supreme Court began in 1971, when environ­mental groups sued the federal government under the River and Harbors Act. The suitsought to force the government to require permits for the Peripheral Canal and the pumping plant, on grounds that the act gives the government authority over any project that affects the quality of navigable waters, not just their capacity to carry shipping. 
California argued the law covered only navigability, but in November 1979, the 9th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals sided with the environmen­talists. 
The court said the law required the state to obtain a permit from the Army Corps ofEngineers to operate or expand the delta pumping plant. It also left undisturbed a lower court ruling blocking construction of the Peripheral Canal without a permit. 
Medicines help only symptoms 
Yesterday's story on the Bangkok flu said that afllicted s~•.1dents could be treated with antibiotics. The flu itself cannot be treated with an­tibiotics, because it i~ a virus. Only each indivictual symr••.um can be treated. If complic<~ti ms such as pneumonia arise fror;l the virus, then antlbioii-ss may ~,--used. 
·-.-----------------------------­
-
Wednesday, January 21, 1981 -page 7
Editorials 
P.O. Box Q 
---------.. ·-·····-...----·---·---------­
Respect 
' ' 
................ ::. 
necessary ........ ' ~ ~ ~ 
;:
in dorms _, 
Dear Editor, 
Boy, do I feel like a fool. A sizeable portion of my weekend was spent writing the essay re­,• quired when applying for the posi­tion of resident assistant. I wrote 
-
sincerely about the respect and consideration residence hall living necessitates and fosters in its aim of creating a close com­munity and home for students. I assumed, but was obviously mis­taken, that hall staff was included in this process. 
I am writing concerning the robbery of stereo equipment from Sorin Hall during Christmas break. I was appalled to learn that members of a basketball team were allowed (I assume by the rector/assistant rector) to stay in the rooms of several Sorin stu­dents without their permission. Anyone who is even minimally attuned to the Notre Dame stu­dent body will realize the generosity that students extend to younger and/or disadvantaged 'OK. YOLI IAI<\E:"/H£ F?£11VS I groups. Neighborhood Study 
day, and it'll do three miles an hourwishes of the students as well as
Help, basketball and football tick­rector or assistant rector, but an 
on the open road."
respect for their right to be con­insensitivity and oversight whichet donations to Logan Center, Big 
"That'd be .. .450 dollars... uh, We can help
sulted and informed that is at
Brother/Big Sister, and Saturday sould be discussed. 
no thanks."
question. Someone could stay in
Rec. at Logan are all exemplary organizations and activities just my room, not touch a thing, and Jenny Pitts "We don't rent them out. Why prevent rape
don't you have Security 'escort' to name a very few. leave the room cleaner than I had 
you?"
The matter of the robbery is im­left it, and I would still feel in­
Hello, Security? Listen, I've got Dear Editor, 
material. Fr. Porterfield stated sulted and having been accorded 
a broken leg and uh ... Once again an ND woman has 
that the students "probably disrespect by whomever it was No cart "From Carroll Hall to the Com­been raped-and on the very edgewouldn't have cared if nothing who neglected to consult me. 
puter Building for your eight of campus. There is no reason had been missing." I disagree. It I assume that it was not inten­is no joke o'clock class? Sure, be right over." women should have to be afraid,is the principle of respect for the tional disrespect on the part of the 
Thank God... a major hurdle has rushing home before dusk, just be­been jumped. Or has it? cause some hoodlum with a grudge Hello, Security? Listen, /' ve got against society may be waiting in 
Dear Editor a broken leg. I need a ride .. . the darkness. 
The week before I came back to
I:Xxlnesbury by Garry Trudeau 
"We don't do that." but... "I'm I'm angry as hell. There is some­
Notre Dame, I broke one of my leg sorry." thing I -and the other men onbones, chipped the other, disl­campus-can do to help.
Well, it looks like I get to walk. 
..1/NOl4llHXEYscaHJ­ocated my foot, and tore up some 
terUPOSlS STIU tiN­ON ANt:JrHE.I?. Fl<ONT, No, I don't even get to do that: Iget At my former college in Kansas 
ligaments.
FILJ£1), 7H&-1PAN51770N HWI?IER.,1H& REA6AN5 to crutch. I knew that college was City, Mo., women living off 
"You say four months in a cast,
SEeM 10 HAV5 60TTEN going to be tougher than high campus (and even those living in
j fffl?/00 HA58YNJ nA/6 Doctor?" They did surgery to put
avr;JeiJ tvi7H!l!WAUJ OFF 10A IWAR!Ne school. But this is ridiculous! the dorms) had often been harassed 
me all together again. But I don't
REA6AN'S ~t-13-STAR:r.. I WOULD like to thank all of the while walking home. Luckily, the 
want sympathy.
/N~//35. r nice people that I've found all over most physical assaults were purse
I want a golf cart. Please, no campus: those that are opening snatchings, not rapes. Our Inter­f laughing. It isn't funny trying to get doors for me, those that are allow­Fraternity Council set up a systemaround in the snow and ice on ing me to stick my swelling foot on whereby each fraternity was as­crutches. Anytime that Ican go fur­signed a different night of the week.
the top of their desk back, the guysther than a hundred feet without from my dorm (Carroll Hall) that On these evenings, fraternity mem­slipping and trying to stand on my bers would volunteer to behave turned out to be not the a-----sbad leg I thank God. When I can go that I thought they were, and a very available in the library lobby to to sleep after lying awake in bed for special person who I know would walk women home. Needless to only three hours it is a gift. Manag­rather not see her name in print. say, escorted women were nevering to sit through Emil in those I would especially like to thank bothered.
cramped seats without having my Security for the times that they did Of course, there are no fratsankle swell up inside the cast is a
a-11.-Y M!NtiTCS ~ ferry me across the length of the here, but the same arrangement
blessing.
THE !NA/RII?ItTl~, MI?S. campus. I'm sorry if your super-could work among the men's fi£A6/IN t4ill5 tii/!5K&O 70 
A golf cart shouldn't be too hard visor is upset with you for being a dorms. Some of these guys are a)­7Hf.ltlf!Te HOIISC ltlleR£ to get, right? Pardon my naivete. 
taxi service. ready so good at out-shouting and
SH£ QIJICI<LY A5SIJMEIJ This is only my second semester 
I've got a tough semester facing out-machoing each other in the
c;a-ma OF THe llJIISt­
here at Notre Dame. But I have
IKUJ Fmtfl}E f(Nrf­me, academically, emotionally, dining halls after football games
learned the ropes quickly. 
~ FI/?ST t:=~=--1 and physically. But I'll do my best that they might like a useful way to
"Golf cart? Uh... how do you
t.AOY. to survive it, and the next six. prove their masculinity.
spell that?" 
Graduating from Notre Dame It would be up to prudent women
/ "Yeah, I useta rentem out, but 
-
would be a high point in my career. to stop and ask for an escort, butthey were coming back all beat Even ifthere is a double standard the escorts must first be available 
up..." for them to do so.
where the non-athlete gets the ,
"Well, could I buy 
runaround, and the Varsity Star As for me, I II be the first off-
one? ... Really? How much?" 
with a cut gets the cart. campus student to volunteer.
"700 dollars..." click. "Yeah, rent one from me, $5 a 
Mike DeWeert
Robert van de Walle 
Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
The Observer is an independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du ~a~ and_ Saint ~ary'~ C<?llege. It does not r:tecessarily reflect the policies of the adm1mstrauon _of e1the~ m~muuon. The news 1~ r_eponed as accurately and as objectively as poss1ble_. Eduo_n~ls represent the opmwn _of a majority of the Editorial Board. _Com":lemanes, op1mons, and letters are th~ vtews of their authors. Column space 1s_ 3:va1lable to all members of the c~mmunl(y, and the free expression of varying optnmns on campus, through letters, IS encouraged. 
Editorial Board and Department Managers 
Editor-in-Cblef.....................................Paul MuUaney Sports Edltor........................................... Beth Huftinan Managing Editor..........................................Mark Rust Features Editor.......................................MoUy Woulk Editorials Editor..............................Mlcbael Onufrak Photo Editor ..............................................John Macor Senior Copy Editor.....................Mary Fran Callahan Executive News Editor.........................Tom Jackman Business Manager ..................................Greg Hedga NewsEdllor...............................................Pam Degnan Controller.......................................................Jim Rudd News Editor...............................................Lynne Daley Advertising Manager...................................Mark EUls SMC Executive Editor..........................Margle Brassil Circulation Manager............................ Beth Hackeu SMC News Editor......................................Mary Lraviu Production Manager..........................John McGrath 
,..-.-----------~------------­
-
-
Campus 
•11-1, 
4-6 p.m. -fast sign-up, in dorms, world hunger coali­tion. •11:15, 3:30p.m.-computer mini-course, intro to tso, ccmb, room 115. 

•4:20 
p.m. lecture: "electromagnetic mass, relativity, and the kaufmann ex­periments," dr. james t. cus­hing, nsh, room 118, coffee served 3:45-4:10 p.m. 

•7 
p.m. -general meeting, nd/smc floc support commit­tee, Iafortune ballroom, everyone welcome. 

•7p.m. 
-basketball, smc vs. st. joe, angela athletic facility. 

•7 
p.m. -ftlm: chaplin's keystone ftlms ( 1914 ), ar­chitecture building, room 202, 


n. 
•7, 
9, 11 p.m. -ftlm: casblanca, carroll hall ( smc ), Sl. 

•s
p.m. -basketball, nd vs. san francisco, ace, metro tv. 


Bandits force tables' places 
By DIANE MAZUREK 
News Staff 
Students apparently unap­
preciative of the table rearrange­
ments that greeted them this 
semester in the South Dining Hall 
broke in Monday night to correct 
the changes. 
Robert Smith, the South Dining 
Hall director, said the tables had 
originally been moved for a catered 
affair sponsored by Sacred Heart 
Church over Christmas break. They 
remained, he continued, after the 
service manager discovered that 
maintainence was simpler with the 
new formation. Smith said he had 
assumed the students would ap­
preciate a change of pace. What he 
did not expect was a suggestion box 
full ofcomplaints. 
Several students decided not to 
wait for their complaints to take ef­
fect and entered the building after 
closing to engage in an elaborate 
full-scale scene change. 
The tables now stand as the stu­
dents arranged them, in a way that 
once again allows for "optimal 
scoping." 
In response to students' sugges­
tions, other changes have also been 
made. Hi-C and Mr. Pibb h'lve been replaced with MellowYellow and red pop. It appear~ that students ap­
prove of this switch, since Mr. Pibb 
has not been kidnapped and forcibly 
returned. 

The Observer=====~c=== 
~c:}cJlC3L~========================W==ed=n=e=sd=a=y=,J=~=u=~==2=1=,1=9=8=1===pa=g=e=8 
Molarity 
Peanuts® 


The Daily Crossword 

"The next day, john was at the river again with two ofhis disciples. As he watched jesus walk by, be said, 'Look, There Is the Lamb ofGod!' The two disciples beard what be said, and followed jesus. When jesus turned around and noticed them following him, he asked them, 'What are you looking for?' They said to him, 'Rabbi, where do you stay?' 
"COME AND SEE," 
he answered. So they went to see where be was lodged, and stayed with him tbatday." 
GENTLEMEN: 
THE FRANCISCAN FRIARS 
INVI1'E YOU TO "COME AND SEE", 
VOCATION RETREAT JAN30-FEB1 
FRANCISCAN RETREAT CENTER 
Mount Saint Frands, Indiana 
Por your reservation orfor further infonnation contact Friar Richard or Friar William: 
St. Anthony Novitialc 
1316 W. Dragon Trail Transponation will be provided M1ahawata, IN 46544 for ND students (219)255--2442 

ACROSS 25 Crevice 1 Florida 28 See61A 
county 32 Actress 5 Stop on a-Hope 9 Tiny plant 33 Pallid 
13 "Ain't­34 Pair night for 35 Odds' man..." partner 
14 Khayyam 36 Lechers 15 Southern 37 Kingof stadium comedy 16 Sundry: 38 "The -of abbr. Innocence" 17 Where 39 Always 61Ais 40 Intelligent 20 61A, for 41 Saidover 
one 44 Arab chiefs 22 A Castle 45 Elevator 23 Arrow man 
poison 46 Evening: Fr. 24 "-Kampf" 47 Juan or Eva 
Yesterday's Puzzle Solved: 

Michael Molinelli 

Charles Schulz 
'(OU NEED TO FIND OUT 
WI4EN '{OUR PEAK WORK 
PERIODS ARE.•• 


49 Tensed 
53 Period when bulls are dejected 
55 "-killed 
a cat" 56 Wine 57 Lucre in 
Lucca 58 USSR sea 59 Pismires 60 Hied 61 Securities 
Trading Ctr. 
DOWN 1 Titled lady 2 "In such­
to be so 
fertile" 3 Record 4 Artworks 5 Morton of 
early TV 6 Semblance 7 Macho 8 Schubert's 
"-King" 9 Entertainer 
Rita 10 Augury 11 Knife, 
old style 12 Pose 18 Blockades 19 Lou Grant's 
paper 21 Boleyn 
24 Certain runner 25 Understand­able 26 Rifle or electric 
27 Site of LakeTiti­caca 
28 Half·­(not well­planned) 
29 Dwight's rival 30 Novelist 
Robert 31 Admonitions 33 Does a 
road job 36 Eye part 37-Stock 
Exchange 40 Muslim sect 42 Strait off 
New Guinea 43 Bit 44 Classified 46 Cubic 
meter 47 Thrall 48 Bridge 
hand 49 Omit 50 Notone 51 Periods 52 Remove 53 Bikini part 54 Literary 
monogram 
SCUBA LESSONS Spring Semester Come to Room 2D LaFortune Center 7:00PM -Jan. 22 Bring $30 Deposit 
Find out about our Bahamas Trip for Spring Break! 
Call272-8607 or 272-9780 
Aquapro Scuba Center 

The Observer Wednesday, january 21, 1981 -p:~ge 9 
Continued from page 11 
for talent at every position. 
"You have to keep huilding every year, trying to get the hcst linemen, offensive and defensive, plus 
Irish wrestle 
for survival 
By BILL MARQUARD 
Sports Writer 
Not only has the Irish wrestling lineup been shaken up in recent weeks, but its schedule has been too. 
Notre Dame's matchup with rival John Carroll, slated for this coming Saturday, has been cancelled. In lieu of the opening this week, the Irish 0·7) have scheduled a triangular mat<:h for this evening against Con­cordia and North Park colleges in Chicago. The teams will wrestle beginning at 7 p.m. 
The Irish lineup has been reduced to four opens the Irish lineup at 118 pounds, followed by junior 134­pounder Curt Rood ( 5-9·1. ), junior I50-pounder John Campana ( 11-5­
1) and junior !58-pounder Brian Erard ( 4-10). 
In Saturday's quadrangular match with Millikin (the Irish lost, 23-21 ), Wabash (the Irish lost, 30-19) and lincoln (the Irish won, 33-20), Coach Joseph Bruno penciled several underclassmen into the slim­mer spots of the lineup. Sophomore Doug Skinner went 1-0-1 at 142 pounds while Joe Agostino won the other middle weight duel. Sop­homore Mark Loman won two matches by forfeit at 167 before dropping an I 1·1 decision, while Mike Schmitt lost all three of his matches at 190 pounds although he had weighed In at only 167. 
"Granted our team is nothing spectacular, but our wrestlers have done well as individuals," remarked Bruno. "I am pleased with the progress they have been making despite the odds." 
• • .Ali 
Continued from page 12 
Ali told the man: 
"You're my brother. I love you and I wouldn't lie to you. You got to listen. I want you to come home with me, meet some friends of mine." 
After half an hour, the 39-year-old Ali put his arm around the shoulders of the man and led him back to safety, witnesses said. 
The two emerged from the build­Ing, ignoring cheering on-lookers and drove away in All's Rolls-Royce limousine to a pollee station. 
All accompanied the man to a Veterans Administration Hospital, where pollee said the man would undergo a 72-hour mental examina­tion. 
"He was just depressed," Ali said later. "He couldn't find work. His father and mother don't like him. He don't get along with his family. He wants to be somebody. 
"I hate to see anybody take his life," a tired Ali said from his nearby Hancock Park home. "I'm going to put him in college and find him a job. I promised to help him with his life if he didn't jump. 
"Now I'll visit him every day for the next two or three days and go home and meet his family." 
However, several hundred on­lookers were less helpful. 
"They were chanting In unl/ son for the man to jump," he said. "We had to clear them off the street." 
.. .Purdue 
ohi. the late nightjet set 
And earn some money for your fun 
Becomean Observer layout person. 
CallJohn at8661. 
receivers, running backs, defensive bck and quarterbacks," he said. 
"We've had great success with Mark Herrmann throwing the foot­ball the past few years, al)d Mark's had great protection and great receivers, but It's still a game of blocking and tackling." 
Despite the success of Herrmann, the major college all-time passing leader, Young's offensive philosophy hasn't really changed. 
"I still believe the best way to move the football is on the ground, and throwing about 35 percent of the time," he said. "I believe we were close to that in 1979. 
"We'll be trying to recruit about two or three good players at each position, with heavy emphasis on the offensive line where we lost a lot ofgood players this year." 
Those losses include tackle Henry Feil, tight end Dave Young, center Pete Quinn, wide receiver Bart Bur­rell and guard Tim Hull. 

-
The Observer Wednesday,January21, 1981-page 10 
Super Bowls in TV ratings 
NEW YORK (AP) -The high drama of the Super Bowl is right up there with other box-office television biggies. 
Only the famous "Who Shot j.R" show on "Dallas" and the final episode of "Roots" reached more households than last year's Super Bowl between Pit­tsburgh and Los Angeles. According to A.C. Nielsen Co. figures, "Dallas" was seen in 41.5 million homes, "Roots" in 36.4 million homes and Super Bowl XIV in 
35.3 million homes. Super Bowl XIII (Pittsburgh-Dallas) ranked fourth 
and Super Bowl XII (Dallas-Denver) was fifth before "Gone With the Wind" One and Two. In all, eight Super 
For the first time since Super 
Bowls rank in the top 25 ofall-time rated shows. 
BowlIV, there will notbea quarter­
The game's hold on the public has been captivating
back wearing No. 12 this Sunday 
right from the start. Super Bowl I in 1967 was so big a
when the Philadelphia Eagles 
prize that both CBS and NBC demanded it -and got it 
square off against the Oakland 
-in the merger settlement between the National Foot­
Raiders. Ken Stabler's (left) old 
ball League and its rival, the American Football League.
team will be there, but be will not. 
But because of CBS's inside position with the NFL,
Neither will joe Namatb (above), 
·CBS handled all the production aspects ofthe game.
toefirst No. 12 in a SuperBowl (111) or Bob Griese (right) who appeared in three Super Bowls during the '70s. "The cloak-and-dagger stuff was straight out of a spy Also, RogerStaubach played in five for Dallas and Terry Bradshaw infour ftlm," said Chet Simmons, former president of NBC 
for Pittsburgh. sports and now head ofESPN, the all­sports cable operation. "It was like

-E4t.i:::~;::;::f1m:&Wt\lllililiBI!'%1i 
talks with the Soviets. All that was missing were the CBS and NBC flags on the table." 

Curt Gowdy and Paul Christman did the game for NBC. Ray Scott and 
. Jack Whitaker split the play-by-play chores for CBS, with Frank Gifford handling the full 60 minutes ofcom­mentary. 
"All week long, Paul and I would appear on the "Today" show and the "Tonight" show, anything to promote us," said Gowdy, now a CBS broadcaster. The network even ran spots plugging Gowdy­Christman as the best team." 
'After Super Bowl IV..., it was all the same thing a 
,corporate happening, :onegiganticparty.' 
Green Bay, the NFL's team, beat Kansas City 35-10, and CBS won the ratings war 22.6-18.5 NBC, with the less-prestigious league and the smal­ler season ratings, claimed victory by not losing by the five-point spread set by TV oddsmakers. 
NBC did lose out on the second half kickoff, but no matter. Game of­ficials called a do-over, and there· was another kick. NBC missed the first one because it was late coming
NOTHING ELSE FEELS LIKE NAVY FLYING. 
out ofa commercial. 
"We weren't ready," said Scotty Connal, executive producer of NBC's Super Bowl I coverage and Thesharp whineofjetengines combination of jet aircraft (NAVY OPPORTUNITY---;;-;-;;, now vice president of ESPN. "That covers the flight deck. and electronic wizardry. INFORl\IATION CENTER I couldn't happen today. There's a 
P.O. BOX 5000. Clifton. NJ 07012 I coordinator on the field who won't
Throttles are at full power, In return, the Navy
-
0 Yes, I'm interested in becoming give up the ball until TV's ready."
and you're waiting for the demands something of you: I
part of the Navy aviation team. signal to launch. Leadership. As officers, right Please send me more information. i0A) I 
Although TV has always made the
I
Now: The catapult fires. from the start, members of Super Bowl a special event, it wasn't 
:"~me•--,F"'II""lS"""T-,"""PI'"""'.I'"':A"'Sl"":1"'•H"CCI~""·T,-,---,1,-:.A-,S""T­
G forces slam you back into the Navy aviation team get I until Super Bowl IV that all the pre­
Addre~s. ___________ 
your seat. Suddenly, you're decision-making authority, I game hoopla and parties began to C'ity_____Stat€."____Zip__ I 
rival the game. According to Gowdy
flying low and fast over the leadership responsibility, and 
I and Whitaker, the New York Jets'
night sea. management experience. 
stunning upset ofBaltimore the year 
:f:Graduation Date___OGrade Point__ 
I
Nothingelsefeels like Navy Other careers can give you before had turned the game into a 
flying. Nothing. And as a responsibility.ButNavygives happening.
1\.:\lajor/~linor·__________ 
I
pilot or flight officer you can it to you sooner. 
Phone :Xumber 
I 
tARE.-\ C'ODE1 ·s('~t Timt• tn Call "After Super Bowl IV, when the
be part of it. Make your first leadership 
This is for general recruitment information. You I AFL had won two years in a row 
do not have to furnish an\' of the information requested. Of course. the more we know. the more excitement of
The Navy puts you in full decision now. Send in the I convincingly, the 
control of a multi-million­coupon. Nothingelsefeelslike we can help you determine thf." kinds of ~a,·y I 
comparing the young kids on the
programs for which you qualify. C N '..!J
L ____________118 1
dollar super-sophisticated Navy flying. block against the burly bullies had faded away," Gowdy said. "From then on, it was all the same thing -a 
corporate happening, one gigantc party." 
NAVY OFFICERS GET RESPONSIBILITY FAST. 


. :. ; :. : 

SportscB=r=i=e~-s=====*==========W=ed=n=es=d=ay=,J=an=u=ary=2=1,=1=98=1==pa=ge=l::::ll 
by The Ohiert't'r ,tnd The A.r.rooated Pre•r 
The Rugby Club will hold a meeting on Thursday at 7 
p.m. In the LaFonune Ballroom. New members are welcome. 
The WOmen'S traCk club practices every day In the ACC concourse at 4:30 p.m. Anyone interested In participating is en­couraged to attend. Be prepared to run outside. For more information contact Cindy McNally at 8152 or Rosanne Bellomo at 6896. 
A domed stadium in Indiana? There may be 
one in Indianapolis by the middle of 1984, according to the contract· ing firm developing plans for the facility. A domed Plans for the proposed 61,000-seat stadium, which would be built as part of an expansion project at the Indiana Convention Center in downtown Indianapolis were announced Monday. The Capital Improvement Board, which is coordinating the project, issued a report giving the project an estimated price tag of more than S65 million. Private con· tributors arc expected to fund S30 million. Approval by the Indiana General Assembly would be needed to approve a tax that would provide the additional funding. "If we start Oct. l of this year, the grand opening would be just before the 500 in 1984," said Robert 
Hunt, head of Huber, Hunt and Nichols, referring to the Indianapolis 
500 auto race which is held In May. The plan would increase the Con­
vention Center by 250,000 square feet with the stadium designed for 
both football and baseball. William A. Carter, chairman of the In· 
dianapolis Chamber ofCommerce Task Force, said obtaining a Nation­
al Football League franchise was not required for the building of the 
stadium, although a group ofbusinessmen in the city have been active­
ly seeking one for some time. "We don't need a pro football team to 
keep the stadium otfthe tax rolls," said Carter. "Ifwe get an NFL team, 
that's gravy." City officials said the faclllty would make it possible for 
Indianapolis, the nation's 12th largest city according to 1980 census 
figures, to "host literally any event apart from the Olympics." 
Tomorrow is the deadline for interhall sign-ups 
in men's and women's volleyball, doubles racquetball and doubles handball. All participants must have proof of insurance on fiJe In the interhall office. Any questions, please call the interhall office at 6100 or stop by C-2 ofthe ACC. 
Gerry Faust will be addressing all freshmen men in­terested in joining the Notre Dame student managers organization. Coach Faust will speak on the imponance and urgent need for fresh­men managers. The meeting will be held Friday at 5 p.m. in the ACC auditorium 
Young begins search 
WEST LAFAYETI'E, Ind. (AP) ­Purdue's football team has compiled the best won-lost record in the Ben Ten Conference over the past three years, but the Boilermakers "still haven't one the big one yet, the Big Ten championship," says Coach Jim Young. 
Tanned and relaxed, Young returned last week from Honolulu, where he coached the East squad in the Hula Bowl. 
The end of one football season 
mt·ans the start ofthe next for Young 
and his staff, who have produced a 
28-7-1 record the past three seasons. 
"Now we're into recruiting again. The staff met to go over our recruit· ing list, checking out just where we stand with guys we're trying to recruit," the coach said. 
"l t,hink we were doing quite well up to the Liberty Bowl, but since then we've been sort of out of touch," said Young, whose Boiler­makers capped a 9·3 season with a 28-25 victory over Missouri in the post-season bowl game. 
Purdue will have 23 scholarships to usc in rebuilding for the 1981 campaign, and Young is searching 
See PURDUE, page 9 
Third trip 
Raider vets confident 
NEW ORLEANS (AP)-The Oak­land Raiders believe their edge in Super Bowl experience will pay oft' against the Philadelphia Eagles. 
"It should help us, but I'm not going to say why. Philly could use my answer," defensive linemanJohn Matuszak said yesterday before the Raiders held their first workout of 
Super Bowl week. 
He is one of II current Raiders who played on the Super Bowl cham­pionship team of four years ago. A 12th player, starting cornerback Dwayne O'Steen, was with the Los Angeles Rams in last year's Super Bowl 
Gene Upshaw, who will be playing In his third title game Sunday, offered one tip to Philadelphia's 
ftcst-time entry. It involves the Na­tional Football League's Friday night party, the elaborate annual affair which this year is being held at a riverfront New Orleans hotel. 
Upshaw's advise: Forget it. "That party's not for players. It's for (NFL commissioner) Pete 
Rozelle and 3,000 (really 5,000) of his close personal friends, and it costs the league (close to) 5100,000. You never see a player at the party," Upshaw said. "We'll have our own party." 
Upshaw went to his first Super Bowl as a rookie with Oakland's 1967 American Football League champions, who lost to the NFL 
"We treated it like a college bowl game, and it wasn't." "That's right," said Upshaw. "I even watched the halftime show." 
He and An Shell, senior members of the Raiders' roster now, have made It a point to tell younger players what to expect this week. 
"Some of our players have never been asked for interviews, and this 
week they might be asked questions by people who can't even 
uwe treated (Super Bowl 
speak English," Upshaw said.
II) like a college bowl 
When they went to Pasadena to face the Min·
game, and it wasn,t. I even 
nesota Vikings in Super Bowl XI, the Raiders
watched the halftime were prepared. John 
Madden, then head
show.,, 
coach, got valuable 
advice from several fel· 
low coaches, su~h as 
champion Green Bay Packers In Miami. 
AI Davis, managing general partner ofthe Raiders, recalled: "we were an awfully green team, hadn't even been in the playoffs before that Super Bowl. 
freshman Tom Sluby (right) are certain to see plenty 
ofaction during tonight's showdown with San Fran­cisco. (Photos by Chris Salvino) 
Miami's Don Shula, 
about how to handle the hectic Super Bowl week. 
"It's definitely going to be easier for us this time. It was pretty easy four years ago, too, because BigJohn had everything all set up," said Shell, a I 3-year veteran tackle. 

------·------------------------------­
Classifieds 
All i·l,lS'•IfiP.I1 J(J'i r, ll!ll tu• r~ce.vcd lh 4 45 p ,,, ly<,~(J ri.JV!Ii rrto• ·o tht> 
•!ISLie n •Adltt.ll rhp •• :1 •s ,\,n The Observer olf1cP. .vdl .tc~..ept.: ldSS•I•eds Moflelit\ ltHOHIJn Fnrtr.v 1() 00 afT' ·o 4 45 p m ·\II rlas!l•f,tods m 11 st be pre-patrl t>l!hcr 1~1 r•f!rson or throu9'' 'tlP mdll 
NOTICEO 
PROFESSIONAL TYPING Term~, theses, etc. T~ Tl'll'lSCJ'il1b\. l.al5l 
~s Sil're gu.y,<~~leed.  low priCES. aardvark  AU yUkaviom.tlc  
!!101~.  289-6753  

Jlltlfldal bltth .~; Is' lha:e ~ W!l(? YesL~UiJ Fsrily Aarning IS Si.We, tJe!llllY• effecllw,. EVER'YONE invft+1M'Tl rrore, ~· .Jirl. 26, 
7:30 prn. L.atrary AucltOriun 81gaged and IVaTied couples call 288-2662 to regISler)or dass 5Ia1lng <r1 Cli'TpUS Tues., .Jirl. 27. 
FOR RENT 
gra:lu5e~~es td-de111 fi~-~-AJ!Iy flmi!i'tlll including IM!i5her'AIF)e'. $70 per mlllh 288-3109 
IG'rtal ~zy ~ 4 renl .._. Rl~ & PARK. 11501..-o. call 232-4549 
TICKETS 
~ 2 GA lia.ts fer .1111. 31 sc gare. call 6814 
~2GAsforSo&t, CA'olina. Caii8Jb 4641 
Will pay IJ)Od nmey for seo.e-al UCLA llx. ,Call 011 8233 
~ 2 GA basletbal.l tlcJtlls .,.-NO. 
UCLA Qa're. Rease cal1.9llr1ey a 8661 or 1715 before 5 p.m 
Need UCLA lla.ts, 2 Sludlint, 1 GA Will pay rregabuck$. Rease call ~Y 8014 
WANTS) 2-4 GAs to UCLA .n:l'Ar St Ftcnds Basletball 'gares. lllp $ Call 1804 
FOR SALE 'I 
Rllr el<Cetl"'l padded sess fp' Spring. Slee-J ca11 R:lb a :m-0865. 
Senkr.stlJdtlf b-ball lld4Jit ~fA' sale. 
UCLA II~ lnduded. A!dded ses. Call iVa"c 51369 
Tl-58 CALC: 5ale Rlil 8338 
PANOORA'S BOOKSCil1 SCM! ~u rrll'lY 
OOIIii'S <r1 ~IG for VJ1r dasses. Try~-· firs!. We Cil1 spedal order txxlks, qllh ·~ ~. ;r,d usually hCI\ie 
\tle:)ijoks ~~ ~ RndJra's is a full-servirelilof410re -...fth newend used Jl)oks, new;paper.;, and "ll'lazines. PANOORA'S BOOKS, 937 &lOth Bend A~, 233-2342 
Sef. I,~Lt'Oidt~---tra:lt'lhernin
·. 
for .~ spring · . lmredlcte 
eyajil'lge or credl( · 1n: pu-cl]ases. <llocf priCES for rrdit useq lfll.lks. PANOORA'S OOOKS, 937 ~ Bl!nd A~, 233-2342 
New '1tJk Trrres rYJW available in ixlx 0Uisidellftlreby,2 emdaily. PANOORAS OOOKS, 937 sOOln Bend A~.• 233-2342. 
LOST/FOUND 
LDST a scai,~rrel\ilere, !l.treak. 
H ls.al:xlUI · · Qlg, 1 ~ end W3S m~r~!iitJI 
ya'Tl, main Ulb" ~~Ecall ll!inre a 8013 or 1715. 
I.Jil&JiEn's ~.da&s ring. D.C.HighSdtiil. Qcrge ,en.. Rill 8338 
PERSONALS 
,~WATCH INStlltllrd Hall's party n:lDm la&t Fliday(ia116) call Rlul 8636. 
I to Ill past 51d M~n: kulpies !his, er,, EXCB.SIORJ ~y per.lln <rl tlltt.-; carpusLOST nxm & ar keys near a:1 bldg oo ill FBI. ring. 'if fol.nd call 8700. 
· as ri:Jt received a perDlal c1:, 
AU.K~ITTHE~:~ Keimt Sluffedctlll an Sl«.j'j KEENAN REVUE ca11 3254 for audltb\.r.o w1 .._,
L WANTED 
Yesss, ITtf ~lhll.j)eggimss has Wr,tl p $!11 ~ lypewiter'? Cl!ll beEI1 here.. ~ere i$5 he? 'M'Iere? Chuck 8705 
'M1ere iss he hi~, ~lh ""'JR'(:Iouss? HiWY 22nd bl~, PATSY KB.LY! ~~.}'42 in 2004. 
P.S. W1erl d:l \00 IMI'lf..dlmer? 
:t~~-1,\e~
-,
.fi~ . . . Call 234-7988 ll1d 
Hey SoaEr rTll1 ~[!Ill~ I t"t~W's
askfor Or fvlike for details 
algietlt ..,.nire fl~ 'lhl<lOl., \00. ~Y cllil'l )QU gil~ rre~ call '1, !Jack Hal • Fielha 

O!a" Mria de Ia lbrre, HAPPY BIRTHDIWIII 1011e & kisses, 'tOUR SS:RET AO'V\IRER 
crean emine ll1d black Silk -.,e.,.... 

--~-­
Snorts 
'More intensity' 
ND ready for revenge 
By SKIP DESJARDIN 
Sports Writer 
Revenge is sweet. The trouble is, it is often too long in coming. 
The Irish basketball team has had a week to think about the 66-63 overtime loss to the San Francisco Dons in Oakland last Tuesday night. Tonight, Notre Dame will have a chance to return the favor. 
Coach Digger Phelps has no plans for any drastic changes for the rematch. 
"I think when we play, we must play with more intensity than we did last week," he says. "We have got to play a tighter defense against them, and box them out underneath. 
''I'm not goi:ng to change my strategy much. The key to that game was our cold shooting from the foul line. Ifwe had hit a couple more free throws, we'd have won the game." 
Phelps says that he is not worried about Notre Dame's play lately. 
"Look, we got beat on a despera­tion, off-balance, off-the-glass shot at Marquette. Then we dropped a game in overtime in Oakland. The players were awfully tired by the time we played San Francisco. People don't realize what five con­secutive road games can take out of you. "We lost out there last year during a long road trip, but when we got them back at the ACC in February we won 78-66;" 
The Dons have been led all season long by a well-balanced scoring trio. Two products of nearby Gary, Ind, provide the scoring up front. Wallace Bryant, a seven-foot center out of Emerson High School, provides the muscle under the bas­ket. Bryant effectively utilizes tum­around jumpshots and hooks to average over 18 points per game. He rolled in 20 against the Irish last week. 
Gary Roosevelt's John Hegwood is the team's leading scorer at a 19 
point per game clip. Irish fans will 
remember the 6-5 forward as the 
man left hanging on the rim with one 
second to go in last week's game. 
"The refs said that they didn't see 
it," says Phelps. 
The third big scorer for San Fran­
cisco is 6-3 guard Quintin Buckner. 
His 21 points last week lead all 
scorers. 
The three are backed by a talented supporting cast. A 6-5 guard, Ed McAlister runs the offense, while 6-8 forward Bart Bowers helps Bryant pull balls off ofthe glass. 
At times, the Dons will play 7-2 Rogue Harris on the high post, ena­bling Bryant to move more freely underneath. Obviously, the use of two seven-footers gives Frisco a height advantage over other teams. Phelps plans to counter this move, along with the Dons' effective 2-3 zone defense, by getting some outside shooting. 
"Gilbert Salinas played very well until he hurt his knee last week. It's a day to day situation now, and we really don't know if he'll make this game." 
Salinas strained his right knee af­ter crashing into the crowd last week. 
"Gilbert's outside shot helped us get back in the game early in the second half out there. We're really going to have to count on Jackson and Tripucka getting their shots to fall." 
Jackson's shots won't be falling tonight, however. The senior tri­captain suffered a sprained ankle early in Monday's Fordham game. Jackson is expected to be back in ac­tion Saturday, though, when the Irish play in his home state of Maryland against Lefty Driesel's Ter­rapins. For the Dons part, theywill continue to look for points from their three top scorers. But Frisco Coach Peter Barry hopes that his 
Senior guard Tracyjackson (30) will be out of the Irish lineup tonight when Notre Dame seeks to avenge last week's loss to San Fran­cisco. jackson sprained his right ankle during Monday's Fordham contest. (Photo byjohn Macor) 
team can get some points out vffor­ward Bart Bowers. The Irishshut out Bowers in Oakland, despite his 10 points per game average. 
Ali saves suicidal man 
LOS ANGELES (AP)-People on the ground urged the distraught 21­year-old man to jump. But former heavyweight boxer Muhammad Ali promised to help him find a job, and talked the man down from a ninth­floor fire escape. 
"No doubt about it," said a police spokesman. "Ali saved that man's life." 
The man, whose name was not disclosed, climbed onto a fire escape at the high-rise office building at about 2 p.m. PST Monday. 
Police officers, a psychologist and a police chaplain tried unsuccessful-
Orsini returns to ND 
By MICHAEL ORTMAN 
Associate Sports Editor 
Steve Orsini, a member of Notre Dame's 1977 National Champion-ship football team, has been named as the University's new ticket manager. Orsini replaces Michael Busick who resigned effective Dec. 

31. Busick left to take a position with an insurance company in Louisville, Ky. 
Orsini served as co-captain on the 1977 squad, along with Willie Fry, Ross Browner and Terry Eurick. The Hummelstown, Pa, native played halfback and was a stalwart special team player. Later his senior year, Orsini captured a coveted campus prize, the Flanner Hall backgammon championship. 
Since his graduation in May of 1978, Orsini has been working as an accountant for Arthur Anderson & Co. in Long Island, N.Y. 
Orsini will take over as ticket manager on February 5, the day after Notre Dame plays host to UCLA in basketball. 
ly to talk to him, said Sgt. Bruce Hagerty, who described the man as "a very distraught, mixed-up young 
man." 
The man, who was too young to have served in Vietnam, "was talking Army jargon ... He said the Viet Cong were out there," Hagerty said. 
Meanwhile, an aide to the three­time world boxing champ spotted the commotion and offered Ali's services to the police. AJi apparently was conducting business across the street at the time, but officers at first weren't thrilled at the thought of "people getting in crisis situations and then asking for movie stars," Hagerty said. 
Then, however, the man "said he was definitely going to jump and he came close to jumping. We decided to give Muhammad a chance at talking to the man," said Hagerty. 
"It's really you!" the man ex­claimed when Ali arrived. 
The boxer, who lost his bid for a record fourth title at the hands of Larry Holmes on Oct. 2, talked to the man first from a ninth-floor window and then from the partially enclosed stairwell. 
"The police thought he had a 
gun," AJi said later. "Nobody would 
go near him. I told him I'm coming 
out and don't shoot me. He said, 'I 
won't shoot you. I don't even have a 
gun.' I took his word and walked on 
out.'' 
See AU, page 9 
Wednesday,January21, 1981-page 12 

Irish are hopeful that Tracy will return to the lineup by Saturday. 
Jackson (who attends the same church in Silver Spring that Terp coach Lefty "Dynamo" Driesell does) has played some of the best games of his career against the Terrapins. The senior guard scored nine points in the last seven-and-one-half minutes ofa 69-54 Irish win during his freshman season, earning NBC Sports' Most Valuable Player award in the process. 
The following year Jackson hit on eight of 12 from the floor for 16 points, but the Irish fell 67-66 at Cole Field House. Last year in friendlier territory, Jackson drove the length of the court for a layup with six seconds remaining to nudge the Irish to a 64-63 win. Once agin, Jackson was named NBC's MVP on the strength of his 15-point, 8-rebound-display. 
LIGHTS, CAMERA, DIGGER (back by popular demand)-All 14 games remaining on the Irish regular season slate are scheduled for television. Along with this weekend's Maryland contest, NBC Sports will present the Virginia game from the Rosemont Horizon as a regional game on February 22. The pe;Icock network's cameras will also beam the UCLA (February 8 at the ACC) and DePaul (March 8 at Rosemont) contests to a national TV audience. When one remembers that NBC's three best ratings last season occurred during the Notre Dame-Maryland, Notre Dame-Marquette and Notre Dame-UCLA games, it is not tough to see why they are televising the Irish five times this season (not counting tournament games). 
MetroSports, the independent television network based in Rock­ville, Md., which has already beamed six Irish basketball games to 49 states, is scheduled to broadcast six more in the next six weeks. Home games slated for telecast are tonight's game against San Francisco, South Carolina, LaSalle, Boston and Dayton. Metro also will present Notre Dame's road contest against North Carolina State. 
The rest of the games on the Irish scheduled will be picked up by 
Cablevision ofChicago and Long Island. 
TRIPUCKA TALLIES -Going into tonight's game with the Dons, 
senior forward Kelly "Master of Disaster" Tripucka is sixth on Notre 
Dame's careerscoringiist with 1,435 points. Ifhe keeps up his current 
pace he will finish fourth behindTom Hawkins (Irish all-American and 
MetroSports color commentator) who has 1,820 points. 
Tripucka also rates ninth on career lists with 523 field goals, fifth 
with a .544 career field goal percentage and 389 free throws made, 
sixth with 486 free throw attempts and second with an .800 career 
percentage from the charity stripe. He has also scored in double 
figures in 26 ofhis last 27 games. 
ABC COVERAGE -Notre Dame's nationally televised coaching debacle in New Orleans marked a first in sports broadcasting. It was the first live broadcast of a sporting event that was closed-captioned for the hearing impaired. Closed-captioningis a production technique which relays special information to television sets equipped for such reception. Throughout the game, scoreboard information was shown on these specially equiped screens along with the game itself. 
FUZZV'S FORECOURTERS -Rumor has it that new Irish football 
coach Gerry Faust may enter a team in the 1981 Bookstore Basketball 
Tournament. Such an entry would certainly be welcomed by the stu­
dent body and most everyone else and would really give people a 
chance to become aquainted with Faust. 
It would also be quite a welcome change. 
AND THEN THERE WERE THREE -Another Golic has agreed to 
attend Notre Dame. Mike Golic, a 6-4, 240-pound linebacker and tight 
end from Cleveland's St. Joseph High School, will follow in the 
footsteps ofbrothers Bob and Greg to Notre Dame. 
Mike was the recipient of the Lou Groza Award this year, given 
annually to the top high school player in the Cleveland area Bob, an 
all-American linebacker at Notre Dame, is now a starting inside 
linebacker with the New England Patriots while Greg is a freshman 
lineman here. 
. \ 
.. 
