------~ -~ -~~-­
Poland -page 3 


MONDAY, MARCH 30, 19tH

VOL XV, NO. 116 an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and saint mary's 


Cuba asked to grant White speaks 
asylum to hijackers

on foreign 
PANAMA CITY, Panama (AP) -arms smuggling dtargcs. The radio

policy 
Panama formally asked Cuba Sunday said the prisoners, all "common to grant political asylum to four foreign dclinljut·nts," would he hijackers of a Honduran jetliner and 
frn·d at tht· y,ovt·rnmt·nt's l.:on­
Editor's note: Robert White, former 
I 5 left-wing prisoners reportedly vt·nit'nl.:t· and 1.kportcd

ambassador to E'l Salvador, held a 
to Panama 
freed by Honduras, the Foreign Min­but did not specifY when.
press nmferenceprior to hisforeign 
istry announced.
poliq talk at Saint Mary's College 
Tht· llonduran army spokesman'sBut in Tegucigalpa, the Honduran
ltlst week. White fi£•1detl the follow· 
comnll'nt conflktnl with tht· broad­capital, armed forces spokesman
inH questions regarding El Stll· 
cast and also with the communii.JUl'
Maj. Julio Armando Pavon said, "The
t1ador, u•hich u•ere recorded by 
issued hy Panama's Foreign Ministry. 
army isn't planning on letting any
Obsen1er reporter jeff Chol(pin. 
The communiljUt' s;tid the lion· lie also said Honduras' military leftist guerrillas kave ti:>r Panama." 
duran government, "for t·mint·ntly government had no plans for 
humanitari;m reasons," had deportations of any kind. 
nt·gotiated tht· rdt·ase of tht· Nationalities ofthe three men and 
hostages aboard the Honduran jet­a woman who hijacked the New 

liner in cxchangt· li>r tht· rdetse of '• Orleans-bound jetliner Friday 15 political prisoners imprisonnl in remained a mystery. They ordered 
Honduras. the pilot to land in Nicaragua and the ll said Honduran authorities had

Robert White 
craft remained there until it flew to 
released the 15 prisonl'fs SundayPanama late Saturday. 
and had included Salvadoran leftist 

Q: Should the lmited States give Panamanian officials said the air 
guerrilla kadt-r Facundo Guardado,Duarte's g(JIIemment military aid? pirates were "dctaint·d" after the 
whost• rdeast· was specifically

A: Tht" political history of El Sal­Boeing 737 landed here and the 50 demanded by the hijackers, IZ. otht·r 
vador ovt·r tht· last year and a half is hostages, including eight Americans unidt·ntificd Salvador;ms and two tht· struAAJc of the civilian kadcr­were freed in good condition and 
Hondurans. ship 10 gain control over the flown back to Honduras. Alii 5, it said, would he placed on
military. The Salvadoran military has After the hijacking was over, the a spedal tlight to Panama Sunday
already rt'<.'dVl·d more military assis· Honduran government broadcast a night.
tann· than had hc.·t·n given them in statement on the national radio twenty years in order to mt"ct the saying it had decided to free an un­But the Honduran army spokes­
One ofthe more copescetic settings this past weekend was found

ldtist threat. I hdkvt' this was a cor­specified number of "undesirable mall said Facundo Guardado was 
on the edge ofSt. joseph's Lake as the blustery breezesfilled the sails 

rect deci~ion. Their military foreign clements" being held on never imprisonnl in Honduras.
ofthose who ventured onto the lake. (photo.byjo/m Macor)
wart·houses arc filkd. There is no nt·cd liJr additional military assis­tance. The signature of the Unitt"d Statt·s towards El Salvador should be In/raneconomic assistance designed to as­sist tht· rdorm and implement social programs, which would undercut the program of the left and assist the 

Bani~Sadr refuses to surrender 
solution. 
If you emphasize military assis­tance, you cmpha.~izc a military solu­tion and you stengthcn tht' corrupt 

BEIIHJT, Lebanon (AP) -Abolhassan Bani-Sadr, Iran's embattled presi­"Contlicts arc everywhere in the world," he said. "Where isn't tl!l'rc con­dt·ments in tht· security forces. Tht· 
dent, says he has no intention of "surrendering" to his militant, clergy­flict? It's everywhere but how much surrender to them, that is the question. backed political opposition. He also said Iranian leader Ayatollah Ruhollah If we do not show weakness but persistence and do not surrender, these
point is that the military assistance is Khomcini is "not god" and has "limited means" to deal with Iran's political (problems) will be solved."
not necessary and it docs exactly the discord.
contrary of what you want it to do. Ina telephone interview from Tehran Saturday with The Associated Press­
Q: Is there a direct link between 
here, Bani-Sadr also said an Islamic peace-seeking mission's proposal for a

repression in 1:'1 Salt1ador and 





Embassypersonnel
cease-fire in the war between Iran and Iraq could be acceptable, depending
military aid? 
upon "clarification" he will seck when the mediators arrive in Tehran onA. If you abandon the human Monday.
rights policy, whkh the Reagan ad­

fearfurther violence
Hani-Sadr is commander-in-chief of the Iranian military as well as presi­
ministration a.~ a practical matter has dent and has come under criticism by the clergy-dominated hardliners for

done. tht·n you arc in effect stating his conduct of the war. Hardline ex-SAN SALVADOR, El Salvador (AI')
that it doesn't mattt"r who you kill. El Salvador's kftists art· trying to Ninety pcrct"nt of the people killed trcmists have said they would not -The latest attack on the U.S. Em-rcplat·c tht· li.S.·backl'l.l dvilian· consider an end to the war until the MONDAy::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::·::;:: bassy, a rocket-grenade and hulkt
hy the st"curit)' forces have been military junta with a Marxist govt·rn· kllkd on mere suspicion. Batthist regime of Iraqi President Sad-.;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;.F ocus salvo, has reminded the 65 uneasy mcnt, while rightists oppose the 
ham Hussein is replaced with a "just Americans who work in the fortress­hm,e? Islamic government." like compound ofthcir vulnerability to tht· left. Bani-Sadr said Islamic mediators in this war-torn nation. 
Q: How much power does the left junta, daiming it has shiftnl too far 
A: The left ls incapable of winning Four men in a pkk·up truck 
a war. The only thing the kft is must determine who started the 27-wcek-old Persian Gulf war and sug-"They were really trying to kill sprayed the emhassy with gunfire gestcd Iraq should pay reparations for war losses hy Iran. us," embassy spokeswoman Carol
capahlc of is acts of terrorism. The earlier this month in an opnation way to counter terrorism is to take that one cmhassy otlkial ~aid had
Two weeks ago, Kohmeini ordert;d an end to the public squabbling he-Docrtlein said ofthe dozen men who tween Bani-Sadr, a Western-educated moderate, and Prime Minister poured rille fire at the building and
away the puhlil.: support for the kft, tht· trademarks of a right-wing at~ not through ma.~sivc military assis­Mohammad Ali Rajai, backed by the Islamic fundamentalists. blasted a hole in the third floor with tack. lk declined to daboratt· or to tance. This ls done hy pushing for­Khomeini has generally supported Bani-Sadr and has often warned that an anti-tank rocket on Wednesday. ht• idl'l!tifit·d. ward the social. economic and the clergy's extremism could backfire into resentment by the masses. At the There were no injuries. Leftists are hcliewd rt·sponsibk political reforms. same time, he has been seen as trying to strike a balance between the two "It wa.~ one of the few places they for Wt·dnesday's raid. New security 
Q: I/ow much assistance hcwe the sides. could hit the building and not hurt measures are in the works htTaust· Most recently, Khomeini agreed with Iran's Prosecutor General Musavi anyone," Miss Docrflcin, of Toms of tht· attack. 
leftists receil1etl?' 

A: Except for the brief period hc­Ardahili, a fellow ayatollah, that he and Bani-Sadr arc not "above the law." River, N.J., said in an interview in her Salvadoran police now question 
twet·n administrations, military as­The statement wa.~ seen as a signal that he would not interfere with Ar-basement ollke. anyone loitering ncar the emh;tssy, dabili's investiga(ion into whether Bani-Sadr incited his followers to "The mood is tense ... We arc while upstairs ollkt·s arc hl'ing rt·s­
sistance to tht· leftists has been very violence during a March 5 speech at Tehran University. afraid. There's no way we cannot he hufficd.
small. Just a.~ you bring all the bricks When asked if Khomeini has been successful in muzzling the political afraid," she added. The four-story The location of the working quar·
and all the monar to a building site, unless you have the masons to put bickering, Bani-Sadr told the AP, "A human being is not god. Man has limited embassy has hccn sprayed hy ters of Charge d'Affaircs Frederic 
that huilding up, nothing is going to Chapin, tht· acting chief of mission,
means considering the prohlc;ms, barriers and so on. Ht! can act to a limit." gunfire four times in the last three happt·n. This is what indeed haP,­The statement appeared to confirm the opinion of some observers who weeks but Wednesday's attat·k, will be known only to a few trusted believe Khomeini, whose Islamic followers brought down the monarchy of staged with clockwork precision,
pt·nt·d in January, where thcrt· were outsiders. the late Shah Mohammad Reza Pahlavi two years ago, is powerless to control was potentially more deadly than Visitors to the padlockt•d front
amplt· arms, but no one to pick them the clergy-backed militants. any previous attempt.
up. That is why the leftist offensive gate on Avenue 2S North are con· Asked specifically if he thought Khomeini had the power to control inter-The attacks on the embassy arc
in El Salvador failed in January. fronted hy a pistol-packin~ Sal­nal conflicts, Bani-Sadr said, "Ask him." He later amended that, saying, believed to have been <.·arricd out hy 
vadoran security guard, who admits "Anyway, I believe he has this control." extremists on the political left and
See Q& A, page4 

Bani-Sadr responded philosophically when questioned about the dispute. the right. See AITACK, page4 



l\T~~Sc~==t:==i=~~~=S========~=======================M=o=n=d=~=,M==ar=ch=3=0=,=19=8=1==p=a=ge~2 
by The Observer and TIJe·AIJociated PreJI 

Notre Dame Securityis searching for a white van with a blue interior and an orange mountain scene on the exterior, in COflnection with the February robbery of a female Notre Dame stu­dent. Security Director Glenn Terry said that the van was recently spotted in the area and may be also connected with the rape ofanoth­er Notre Dank student. Anyone with information is asked to contact Security. -AP 
Workers uncovered the body of a 22-year-otd man under a pile ofconcrete and heavy steel beams Sunday, removing the I I th victim from the rubble of a condominium that collapsed during construction. His parents and friends, who kept vigil since the c.ol­lapse Friday, wept and embraced when 22-year-old Darrell Nowakowski's crushed body was taken from the dusty wreckage of what officials say was the worst construction accident in Florida his­tory. Fire ChiefRobert Walker said earlier that three or four workmen still were missing. He abandoned hope Saturday of finding anyone alive in the mss of broken concrete slabs and twisted steel reinforcing rods. Teams from the U.S. Occupationai Safety and Health Administra­tion and state officials continued their investigations, interviewing survivors and examining debris at Harbour Cay condominium, a $1 million, five-story project that was to contain 45 lavish units. Univel Corp., the contractor and c0-developer of the project, also was in­vestigating, said spokesman Mike Mervis. "We're going to review the 
records and go through all the things to reassure ourselves'that every­thing was done in the fashion it should be done." -AP. 

.. The space shuttle came through two final fueling testlo in excelknt shape;-clearing the way for an Apnil 10 lift-off for the Columbia's much-delayed maiden voyage, Shuttle Launch Directo~ George Page said Sunday.A 73-hour launch countdown could begin next Sunday at II :30 p.m. EST, Page said. An fficiallaunch date for the reusable spacecraft's first mission must await a Tuesday flight readi­ness review at the Kennedy Space Center by program directors ofthe S8 billion program. "We feel the lOth is a viable launch date," Page told a press briefing after a "hands-on" inspection of the two critical fuelings of the I 5-story external tank, which feeds the orbiter's three main engines. The Columbia is to return to Earth on airplane-type wings.for a landing a Edwards Air Force Base in California after its first 54-hour orbital flight. The flight is more than two years behind schedule. -AP 
An AmeriCan aboard the hijacked Indonesian jet­liner parked here was shot in the back Sunday and dumped from the plane hours after a British captive' escaped from air pirates who demand the release of84 pisoners in Indonesia. Two other Americans were reported among the 55 hostages still aboard the Garuda Airlines DC-9 parked at Don Muang Airport since five hijackers diverted it to Bangkok from a domestic flight over ·Indonesia Saturday. The wounded American, identified as Karl Schneider, a 44-year-old native of Texas, was in stable condition, Thai officials reported. Earlier, a ' British captive escaped throu~an emergency exit_and raced to a golf course while airport worke;;; refueled the craft. Witnesses said Schneider either fell or was pushed from the airliner after being shot twice. He waved for help frorll the runway and was retrieved by a stretcher crew. A Thai government spokesman said Indonesia agreed to meet ,li-the demands of the heavily-armed hijackers, but would only dis<fose the one demand -freedom for 84 "political" prisoners. 
-AP 
United Mine Workers President Sam Church made whirlwind stops in three coal states Sunday in ~ push for rank and file approval for a contract settlement, and union officials said the deC!-· sion was in the hands ofa "silent majority." Church went to Virginia, West Virginia and Kentucky to warn that the United States could lose foreign markets ifcoal production dropped, saying a long strike by the union's 160,000 members could hamstring the industry. UMW offi­cials.j~,:s were studyiQg the proposed agreement.·which go to a vol'C'Tuesday. "The silent majority hasn't spoken yet and they're not going to be heard until Tuesday," said john Darcus, a senior UMW official in West Virginia. "You only hear the most vocal." Miners struck Friday when their old contract expired, although union leaders had reached a tentative settlement with coal operators. Two years ago, during a 1 1 1-day record strike, the rank and file rejected two contract settlements. -AP 
Officials have recovered an unarmed Tomahawk missile that burst from the sea and flew to a Nevada test site in the ftrst submarine land attack test. The cruise missile was fired underwater Saturday from the subma!'ine USS Guitarro in the Pacific Missile Test Center range off Point Mugu, 60 miles northwest of Los Angeles, said Nayy Lt. Susan Glutting. It flew 300 miles to the Tonopah Test Range at Nellis Air Force Base in Nevada and made a simulated attack before landing by parachute. In previous tests, the missile had been fired from aircraft to land targets and from a submarine to targets at sea. The tt·~t was under the direction of the Joint Cruise Missile Project based in Washington. Cruise missiles are computer-guided to hug the terrain and avoid radar detection. AP 
' A 30 percent chanceofscattered showers Monday morning. Becoming partly sunny by afternoon. High in the mid 60s. Partly cloudy and mild Monday night Low in mid 40s. Partly sunny and warmer Tuesday. High in the mid 70s. 
A look back.. and ahead
I , 
April 1 marks a day oftransistion in Notre Dame stu­dent government. On Wednesday, SBP Paul Riehle and company will clean out their desks to make room for the incoming administr~tion of Don Murday. Cynics may note that the changeover is taking place on April Fools' Day. Personally, I like to think that this time ofthe year, with its sunny days and warm breezes, brings with it a feeling ofrenewal, and a sense ofoptimism. It seems fitting for transitions to take place in the spring. 
Before the transition takes place, I think it ap· propriate to review the Riehle administration, and their efforts to centralize student government. Also, I'd like to take this time to pen a few hopeful thoughts regard­ing the necessity ofcontinuity and development in our student government under Don Murday. 
During h_is campaign last year, Paul Riehle spoke of consolidating student government, in an effort to unify the voice of the Notre Dame student body. After win· ning by a comfortable margin, but before he was scheduled to take office on· that magical date, April 1, Riehle began his fight to coordinate student govern­ment by zeroing in on the Campus Life Council. 
At this time, the CLC was finishing up a term that saw very little accomplishment. One possible reason for this may have been the number of administrators, faculty, and hall rectors serving on the council (ten of the nineteen members). 
I covered the CLC's last 
meeting for 1979-80. At this, 
the final meeting of their 
tenure, several members of 
the CLC made motions to 
extend the term of the ad­
visory body, in order that 
they could evaluate the 
make-up of the council and 
its effectiveness. Among 
these members was Riehle, 
serving as a representative 
ofthe Hall President's Coun­
cil. Those members as­sociated with the faculty and the administration ;>aw to it that those efforts were squashed. Vice Pcesident for Stu· dent Affairs, Fr. John Van Wolvlear, labelled the motions as "trying to do too much too late." Offering a different view, Keenan Hall Rector Fr. Richard Conyers called 
the meeting "an excersise in futility." At this point, it 
looked like Riehle would be in for an uphill battle. 
Not to be discouraged, Paul Riehle returned in the fall 
armed with plans to create a Student Senate, possibility 
using the HPC as its base. As for the CLC, Riehle wanted 
to retain it in the capacity of an advisory body to the 
Senate. After conducting a study of past Notre Dame 
student governments, as well as those ofother schools, 
Riehle presented an amended student government con­
stitution to the little known, but very important, Board 
ofCommissioners. 
The Board, which consisted of the SBP, SBVP, and othrr student leaders, would serve as the hub of the Senate, along with class officers, and elected r-4!presentatives. -..q;:bis ''"body would have legislative powers, and would present resolutions to the ad­minstration in its role as the voice ofthe students. After 
rr:--;-·---·_____;=~=-::::-:::=, 


~=:.:~~==~ .
IDesign Assistants ................... Pany Holley 
• Kim Parem Typesetter ............................... Bruce Oakley News Editor.............................)ohn Higgins Copy Editors ................................. Kelli Flim 
Steve Navarre Sports Copy Editor ............... Mike Ortman Systems Controi................ Steptien Brown Ad Design ........................... , .., ..... Fran & Co. Pbotograpber ........................... .)ohn Macor Guest Appearances ...................... Prodders 
Graphers (Big night for meetings) The Late, Lame Lefty 
.J 


receiving the approval of the BOC, and later the HPC, Riehle went to the student body with his proposal. 
Forums were scheduled, where interested students could ask questions regarding the changes in their government. The response was practically nonexistent. Nevertheless, Riehle urged students to approve the amended constitution in a referendum held in mid­October. The student body voted yes, and Riehle; moved on to the Board ofTrustees.· 
The Board of Trustees extracted the teeth from Riehle's proposal by insisting that the Senate be an ad­visory body to, of all things, the CLC. Adding insult to injury, they suggested that Riehle and t:oimpal'ly l:lOQ. ;. ~­centrale on improving the CLC. 
Accepting this redefini­tion of his plan graciously, Riehle proceeded with the formation of the Senate, and their first meeting was held in late November. The Se~ate has met weekly since then, but looking PJack, the concrete accomplishments have been few. One bright spot is 'the escort service, which has made it safer for women to travel to various points on-campus at night. It has also made it easier for a guy/girl to meet someone they've been eying, but weren't sure how to ap­proach. 
This lack of major ac­

hievements can be attributed to the problems of starting a new organiza­tion. By the time everyone learned each other's names, and figured out what a point oforder was, it was time to hold next year's elections. In retrospect, the creation of a student senate is a large accomplishment in itself. If nothing else, Paul Riehle should be given a great deal of credit for taking on the Herculean task of reorganizing st_udent government, given the hurdles presented by an apathetic student body, and a stubborn Board of Trus­tees. 
Enter Don Murday. The first step in getting things done is to gain some credibility for the Senate.'If Paul Riehle's efforts are not to be in vain, it is essential that Don Murday's government act with professionalism and efficiency on campus issues. If the Senate is to do the job for which it was intended, it must first gain the respect ofthe students and the administration. 
The word transition means change, but it also carries with it the 'connotation of continuity. As April 1 ap­proaches, it is my hope that Don Murday will pick up where Paul Riehle has left off. 

~~=:~~·~~~ori;BoHdmdD~utmemMm.en , 
Edltor-ln-Cbief..........!..............................john McGrath SMC Executive Editor .....................Mary Agnes Carey 
Box Q Notre D.Jme, ll'-1' 4655(, 
Managing Editor ......................................Tom jackman ' .SMC News Editor ..............................,.Kathy Domanico
The UJ;1erur s an independent newspaper published by the studenh ·)f the 
Executive News Editor ..................... , ........Lynne Daley Photo Editor...................................................john Macor
UniversH:, of ~otr(' Dame: duLac and Saint Mary's Colle~e. It does nor nt>cessarilv 
News Editor .............................................Tim Vercellotti
rdlec · '!c pol1cies uf the admini,.rranon of either mstitutiOn. The news is reponed Business Manager ....................................Rich Coppola
News Edttor..................................................john Higgins
as au.urardy and as •Ji.:jecrivel> as possible. Edirorials represent the opin1on of a Controller........................................................joe Mulflur Senior Copy Editor ........................Mary Fran Callahan 
ma1orin· vt che Ediwnal Board Commentaries, opinions, and letters are the views Advertising Manager......................................Mark Ellis Sports Editor .........................................Michael Ortman
of their authors. Column space is available to al! members of rhe community. and Production Manager ...... _.,,........Ryan Ver Berkmoes Features Editor..........................................Rick Hermida Circulation Manager ........................Tom MacLennan
tbe free (·.<pr·~SSIOfl ()f ·.-arving opmions 00 camrus, through letters, is encouraged. 

-------------------~--------------------­
The Observer Monday, March 30, 1981 -page 3 
Laetare Medal 

University picks Muskie 
Former Secratary of State and U.S St:nator Edmund S. Muskie has been named the 1981 recipient of the Notre Dame Laetare Medal, the ol· dest honor accorded American Cat· holies. 
"Secretary Muskie has served his constituents and his nation with the courage of conviction, devotion to the humane, and with the personal integrity, wisdom and humility which have earned him our respect and affection," commented Presi· dent Theodore M. Hesburgh. "Wht·ther combating cnvironmen· tal pollution or war in Southeast Asia, he has approached such com­plex issues with keen insight, statesman-like skill and uncom­promising dedication to his ideals." 
Muskie joins other Laetare Medal winners from the nation's political leadership, including last year's recipient, Speaker of -'the House Thomas P. (Tip) O'Neill Jr., Senate Majority Leader Mike Mansfield ( 1977), diplomat Clare Boothe Luce ( I9S7), President John F. Kennedy ( 1961 ), and the first Catholic 
presidential candidate, AI Smith ( 1929). Other Laetare Medal recipients include William ). Bren­nan Jr., jurist and associate justice of the U.S. Supreme Court; Dorothy Day, founder ofthc Catholic Worker Movement; Sargent Shriver, diplomat and first director of the Peace Corps; actress Helen Hayes; historian Msgr. John Tracy Ellis, labor leader George Meany, and in­dustrialist). Peter Grace. 
Muskie was born March 28, 1914, in Rumford, Maine. He was graduated cum laude from Bates College in Lewiston, Maine, in 1936, where he was a Phi Beta Kappa and class president. In 1939 he was graduated from Cornell University 
"Solidarity" threatens strike and existence ofnation 
WARSAW, Poland (AP) -Inde­pendcnt unionists will test "the ex· istcnce of the nation" if they go aht·ad with Tuesday's threatened nationwide strike, a top Communist Party leader said in opening the Communist Party's emergency meeting Sunday on Poland's worst labor crisis in seven months. 
The meeting of the policy-making Central Committee was widely believed to be tht• st•tting for a show­down between reformists and hardliners. The meeting is the sixth sincc Aug. 2S wht.'n old guard ele­ments were ousted in the first of several house-cleanings. 
The session opened'· under the shadowofthe grimmcst-eve'r assess­ment In Moscow of the crisis and an announcement in Berlin that "new units" were being sent to participate in Warsaw Pact t•xcrdscs on Polish soil and in neighboring countries. 
The outcome of the theatened strike by the independent union Solidarity "could he unpredictable," said Politburo member Kazimierz Barcikowski in an opening speech. "This is no longer pressure on au­thorities, hut an open fight against socialism. This is a fight for power." 
The Eao;t German news agency AIJN said "new units" were en route to join the I 0-day-old "Soyuz 81" Warsaw Pact maneuvers that have been under way in Poland, Czechos­lovakia and East Gcrmany. 
In Rome, Pope john Paul II 
pleaded that his native land be 
allowed to solve its own problems, Church broadcast a prayer asking the Virgin Mary "to protect us, so that we do not lose our freedom." 
The official Soviet news agency . Tass, in dispatches from here, said conditions were "extremely tense" · and accused Solidarity of 
•'"provocation" and "open methods of struggle against the lt:gitimate state authority." 
The news agency also accused Solidarity of being run by dissident groups and warned Westerners to stop supporting "those elements in Poland that arc trying to bring things to anarchy." 
Warsaw Radio, which broadcast Barcikowski's speech, said Party First Secretary Stanislaw Kania summoned the Central Committee "for a discussion of the party's tasks in the present situation" since Solidarity and government negotiators have failed so far to avert Tuesday's threatened strike. 
Solidarity is threatening an open· ended nationwide strike unless the government dismisses officials the union says are responsible for the March 19 beatings of 2 3 farmers and union activists in Bydgoszcz, north­central Poland. 
Polish airspace was dosed to foreign aircraft for five hours ending at .. t~O a.m. Sunday for "technical reasons," the governmt:nt reported. The East German news agency ADN reported that Warsaw Pact troops held simulated "attacks against air­borne troops" in Poland and "accomplished the annihilation of 
and enemie;;." 

BEST ACTRESS 
1980 \ 

DRAMA 
DESK 


AWARD 
PAT CARROLL in GERTRUDE STEIN 
GERTRUDE STEIN GERTRUDE STEIN 
SAINT MARY'S COLLEGE PERFORMING ARTS SERIES WEDNESDAY, APRIL I, 1981 8:00 PM O'LAUGHLIN AUDITORIUM 
Law School, enlisted in the U.S. Navy 
during World War II, and ser"ed in 
the Atlantic and Pacific theaters. 
Muskie was elected to the Maine 
House of Representatives in 1946, 
1948 and 1950, serving a~ minority 
leader during his second and third 
terms. From 1951 to 1952, he was 
the state director of the Office of 
Price Stabilization and was 
Democratic National Commit­
teeman from 1952 to 1956. 
Elected governor of Maine in 1954, Muskie served two terms before being elected to the U.S. . Senate in 1958. During his 22 years in the Senate, he served on the Foreign Relations Committee, the 
Governmental Affairs Committee, 
the Environment and Public Works 
Committee, and as chairman of the 
Budget Committee. 
In 1968, Muskie was· the 
Democratic nominee for vice presi­
dent, running unsuccessfully with 
Hubert H. Humphrey against 
Richard Nixon and Spiro Agnew. 
Muskie was nominated by Presi­
dent Jimmy Carter on April 29, 
1980, to he secretary ofstate follow­
ing the resignation of Cyrus Vance. 
Confirmed by the Senate and sworn 
in May 8, Muskie was secretary of 
state until President Ronald Reagan 
named Alexander Haig to that posi· 
lion. 

The Laetare Medal was first given 
to a distinguished American Cath­
olic in 1883 and is traditionally an­
nounced on the fourth Sunday of 
Lent ( Laetare Sunday in the Catholic 
liturgical year). The medal is ex­
pected to he presented to Muskie at 
University commencement ex­
ercises May I7, at which 1"resident 
Ronald Reagan will speak. 
18461 St. Rd. 23 


The crowd at Chautauqua was treated to excellent musical rendi­tions last weekend by Ellen Mcl/waine and Eddy Shaw ami the Wolf Gang. (photo byjohn Macor) 



MAKE AWORLDOF DIFFERENCE 
There's an endless frontier of need out there, stretching from the Sahara to the Andes to the Atolls of the South Pacific. In 20 years, 80,000 Peace Corps volunteers have traveled to all of them, to work with people in over 60 countries. They've done everything from helping villagers dig wells and build houses, to teaching them languages and skilled trade3, to giving adv1ce on farming and health care. Join a phenomenal tradition. The difference is a better world, and a better you. 
Register Now at the Placement ' Bureau for Interview: April 7 & 8 
or call 800-621 ~36 70 
------~--~ 
The Observer Monday, March 30, 1981-page 4 
• • • Q&A 


continuedfrom page 1 
Q: How successful bas the land reform been? 
A: It has been reasonably success­ful. Economically, in the point of view of production, it's about the same as a year ago. This is in spite of the fact that there have been right and left-wing murder squads attack­
1 ing the production cooperatives. The importance of the first stage of the agrarian reform program is not so much economic; it's that it has displaced the small land-holding 
class that has dominated El Salvador for the last I00 years: Now that they have been wiped out, most of them are outside of the country. That in itself has insured the final economic, political and social change in El Sal­vador. It is still reversible, but I doubt that will happen. 
Supported by beautiful, breezy weather, the Notre Dame Sailing Q: What do you feel about Presi-Club held its MCSA Icebreaker Regatta on Saturday. (photo byjohn dent Reagan's view on El Salvador? Macor) A: Reagan shows El Salvador as a 


LOYOLA UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO 
Registration in the Georgetown Room Marquette,~Center --820 North Rush/Chicago 
~ . 
You can sign-up for:_a bright and wide array of summer session, full-credit courses. 9ffer~d at either our Water Tower campus at 820 North Michigan or our Lake Shore campus at 6525 North Sheridan. Here are the session dates... 
FIRST SESSION Biology, Chemistry & Physics May 18--June 26 All Other Offerings May -26-June 25 
REGISTRATION* May 12 (lues) 10 AM-1 PM and 4-6:30 PM May 20 (Wed) 10 AM-1 PM (excludes Biology, Chemistry and Physics) 
EVENING SESSION 
May 18-July 16 
REGISTRATION* May•1'2 (Tues) 10 AM-"1 PM and 4-6:30 PM 
SECOND SESSION 
Biology, Chemistry and 
Physics June 26 -August 7 All Other Offerings June 29-July 30 
REGISTRATION* June 18 (Thurs) 10 AM-2:30 PM 
·students may elect to reg1ster by ma1l. Information prov1ded 1n the Summer Sessions bulletin. 
For more information complete coupon below and mail today! 


l_lW ___
___LOYOLAUNiveRSITYOFCHiCAGO 
I  Summer Sess1ons 820 North M1ch1gan Avenue, Ch1cago, llhno1s 60611  
II  NAME ADDRESS  ~  TELEPHONE: 312/670-3011  
I  CITY COLLEGE N OW ATTENDING  STATE  ZIP  

I
I 
I 
I
I 

place where he could take a stand and send a message to the world that he is drawing the line. The problem is that what you're confronting is a revolution that is home-grown, one that has had very little assistance from the outside, one that has basi­cally failed because we've been backing a reform government. To flaw that steady progress by putting in military assistance and military advisors would be to send a message 
' to the rest ofthc world that we don't understand what is going on in El Salvador. 
Q: Is Secretary ofState Alexander Haig's view, that the situation is the US vs. the Communists, accurate? 
A: It is simplistic. There is very Iitle evidence to back up this charge. There is no serious analysis that I know of, done by anybody with any credentials, that would buttress the view that the Soviet Union or Cuba has-had a substantial effect on how the revolution has developed. The people the Soviets arc supporting have no real capacity to take over the government. The thing is to is­olate these people by making the government more effective and economically viable. 
The way the left plans to win is the same way the right plans to win, and that's by keeping the country in economic turmoil, having them go broke, and having the machinery of the economy run down. The way to solve that, is to gain consensus 
among the people that elections and pluralism arc the way to go, and to keep the reforms going so that the people will support the government and not the leftists. 
Q: Did you abort two right-wing coup attempts? 
A: I, as representative of the United States government, made clear to those who were asking us to permit a right wing coup that the United States was I00 per cent against that. We would not support, economically or any other way, a government that overthrew the present government. 

Attack 

continuedfrom page 1 
them only after questioning. 
At the front door ofthe building, a 
visitor is confronted by a concrete 
wall and two more Salvadoran 
guards. One, armed with a 12-gauge 
shotgun, watches while the other 
frisks visitors. 
Visitors enter the lobby through 
an airport-style metal detector to 
find a fatigues-clad U.S. Marine be­
hind a bullet-proofglass panel along 
with a Salvadoran receptionist. 
The Marine, who on one occasion 
was seen with an M-16 rifle slung 
from his shoulder, controls further 
progress into the embassy by 
electronically operated doors. 
ROCCOS  
men's and women's hairstyling at comfortable prices 531 N. Michigan 233-4957  


But embassy personnel have not completely isolated themselves. They continue to live in private residences, although earlier this year some moved to more secure neighborhoods. Their dependents were. sent home last year as a security precaution. 
Violinist presents recital 
The University of Notre Dame Department of Music will~ present violinist Cynthia Crumb in a graduate degree recital, Saturday, April 4, at 8: I 5 p.m. in the Memorial Library Auditorium. 
A graduate of Cincinnati Conser­vatory of Music, Ms. Crumb is a stu­dent of Adrian Bryttan. Her Masters Degree recital will include Sonata no. 1, BWV 1014, by j.S. Bach, Five Melodies for violin and piano by Serge Prokofieff, Sonata in A major for by Cesar Franck, and will close with Malagucna, by Pablo Sarasate. Ms. Crumb will be assisted by pianist Lisa Clark. 

Applications for the 1981-82 
Student Government Cabinet Positions will be made available starting 

March 24 
at the 

Student Government Offices on the second floor of Lafortune. 
Must be returned by March 31... 
We are an equal opportunity educator/employer. NO I 
The~ner~~==~==============~~=======~====== 



~c:}cJl(l~=·======================M=on=d=~='M=a~rc=h=30=,=19=8=1==p=ag=e~S 
Molarity 

TH£RE'5 TH£ 6Uv'IM 
5UPPO!JcDTb G£T ~ Til~ 11A!6 A5.5A!it>/N GAME, oNE SHOT WITH THIS WY 
DART GUN ANP I MAKE: 

The Daily Crossword 

© 1981 by Chicago Tribune-N.Y. News Synd. Inc. All Rights Reserved 

ATTENTION: freshmen 
Sign-up for 
1982 Sophomore literary Chairman & Executiue Committee 
Apply at Student Union 2nd floor LaFortune 

DEADLINE: April 2 
Open to students of all majors 

Campus

Michael Molinelli 
•1 
~.2,6 p.m. -women's op­portunity weck. film, ""who arc the deholts?" president hoard room lemans. 

•12: 
IS p.m. -· knten mass. fr. griffin, Iafortune rathskeller. 

•4:30 
p.m. -lecture. "heyond legalism: the codt·, tht· t·hris­tian, and his omsdcnt·e,"' dr. anne carson daly, nd, I 0 I law school. spons: st. thomas morc law colloquium. 

•7 
p.m. -lectun· iln coping with stress, ""lifestyle: taking responsihility ti>r your hcalth,"' kathy dcvany, wcllness support centcr, galvin biology auditorium. 

•7 
p.m. -~llltknt senate. ll.l. hayes-heitly. 




•7:30 p.m. -monday night film series, "l.OO I,·· annl·nht-rg aud. spons: dcpt. of com­munkations and theatrc. .• 
•H p.m. -wonll'n"s oppor­tunity week. "'out<:asts." smc/nd womcn improvisation­al group, moreau hall. little: theatrt·. 




Doonesbury 

Garry Trudeau 

60 "What's­25 Amoor forme?" Ustlnov 61 Linen 26 Blue fabric 27 Klngof 63 Biblical Judea pronoun 28 Nlcetata 64 Within: 29 Provide comb. form food 65 VIolinist 30 Twin Cities 
Mischa suburb 66 Cure 31 Priscilla's 67 Groucho John 
look 32 Wants 68 Freethinker 35 Toll 69 Abominable 38 IIDuce, 
snowman for one 40 Klndof DOWN physician 1 Hymenop­43 Manicure teron Item 2 Wing· 45 Malay 
shaped master 3 Aleutian 48 Assayed Isle 50 Metal· 4 Julius or working 
Tlberlus place 5 Federation 52 Marner 6 Culture 53 Blue 
of Tlkal 54 Henry's ...... 7 Blue fourth 8 Container 55 Tarry 9 Retort 56 Benzell 10 Compact or Hines narratives 57 Indian 11 Related butter 12 True: Fr. 58 Fervor 13 Blue 59 Hindu caste 21 Blackthorn member 23 Hebrew 62 Cordoba month cheer 




ACROSS 26 Rose of ­1 WW II army 29 Blue group 33 Guided 5 One-celled 34 Renown 
protozoan 36 Tureen 10 Blue server 14 Can. prov. 37 Parched 15 Llvy's 39 Gourmand 
language 41 Show or 16 Gumbo walk 17 Gorge 42 Camber 18 City In 44 Tam 
France • 46 Sparks or 19 Small Rorem bottle 47 Pedagogue 20 Blue 49 Lazy and · 22 Cookout black-eyed food 51 One that 24 Bates or binds Paton 52 Thailand 25 R.I. sen· 53 Intrigues ator 56 Blue 
Friday's Results 

-


High winds hindered theperformances ofNotre Dame's highjum­pers and others in ~he field events in Saturday's Notre Dame Invitational. (photo byjohn Macor) 

CHAUTAUQUA COFFEEHOUSE 
The Observer 

-
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------,. 
Monday, March 30, 1981-page 6 


Duke Tomatoe and the All Star Frogs
.. 

ONE SHOW ONLY WEDNESDAY NIGHT Admission $1.00 
1in the Ballroom of LaFortune 




Baggage Truck Concessions 
Contract is mandatory. for any group or individual wishing to run a baggage truck this May &lor August 
Pick -up Applications M.arch 30th Student Union Office 2nd floor LaFortune 

Applications Due: April 8th 
are going to stay out ofheavy spring drills for precautionary reasons ... Others wearing the red shirts were Eddie Hornback, Pete Grogan, Todd Bruni, Robb Gagnon, Kevin Griffith, Bernie Adell, Mike Liebenstein, Cyrus King, and walk-ons Parvez Chand and john Flood. 
One of Notre Dame's incoming freshmen was present at Saturday's practice. Mike Golic, brother ofcur­rent Irish tackle Greg and former NO star Bob, was making his official visit to campus. "I didn't have time to make any other visits because of wrestling," Golic said. Watching the workouts, he said, "This really gets the blood going. It makes you want to get out there. It's weird looking at these guys now, and knowing I'll be 
bumping heads with them in just a few months." 
Faust will open this Saturday's practice to the public -the only other time he. will do so this spring. The team will probably take the field 
AIR FORCE ENGINEERS AND SCIENTISTS ARE PROILEM•SOLVERS 
Plus, they ~Y a wOfldwide reputation for excellence. 
If you have visiOn, creativity, and a scientific or engineering degree, apply your talents with a modern service that's geared for the future. Com­pletion of the Air Force"s' three­month Officer Training School earns you an officer's com­mission and starts you on the road to a future-oriented career. The Air Force also of­fers you an excellent salary, medical and dental care, 30 days of paid vacation a year, a $20,000 life insurance policy for about S4 a month, and many other benefits. 
Find out today what the Air Force has to offer bv contact-
i~ MSgt. Stanley 219-233-. Steward 
·4'14'1 -0 collect 


Dan Devine and Ara Parseghian used ... Faust's quote ofthe day, explain­at practices was absent Saturday. ing to a receiver who missed a pass: The reason?. "I can't coach from up "C'mon. It's like hugging a girl. there," said Faust. "You can't pat 'em You've got to watch it all the way." 
• • • Finals 

continuedfrom page 8 
Smith said he would show Indiana his entire array of defensive tactics,. ·"our scramble defense, the point 
defense-we'll use them all." 
At the same time, he expected to 
see Indiana use variations on the 
man-to-man. "In a sense, they do 
play a type ofzone," Smith said. "For 
instance, they may elect not to play 
someone very closely. I don't know 
how they intend to match up, but 
they might use something like a tri­
angle and two." 


BUY OBSIBVBB OLASSIFIBDS 

~" monday night film series t~o..~·' 
Monday, March 30 
2001 (MGM) 1968 Stanley Kubrick's epic tale of apes, spacemen and evolu­tion, from a short story by Arthur C. Clarke. 
Cinematography by Geoffrey Unsworth, special effects by Douglas TrumbulL With Keir Dullea and Gary Lockwood. 
THE SNITE MUSEUM OF ART 

7:30 pm admission $1.00 
sponsored by ( ND-SMC COMMUNICATION & THEATRE­
*PHOTOGRAPHERS* 
THE OBSERVER is organizing next year's photo staff (JKUd !JMifimt) lAP PLICA TIONS -name and phone -work and photo experience -some example of previous work -drop offat 3rd floor LaFortune b_y 3/30 ALL PRESENT PHOTGRAPHERS MUST REAPPLY An_y questions call John at 1715 or 3106 
Knight was asked if he had decided how he would match his team against sixth-ranked North Carolina, 29-7, particularly against T~ Heels forward AI Wood, who scored a career-high 39 points in leading North Carolina over Virgini~ 78-65 in the semifinals. 
"I do't think the game will revolve around any particular point," Knight said. "If either team does not play good defense, ifeither team does not shoot well, they won't win. Also, no team can get beat on the boards ann expect to win." 

Monday, March 30, 1981 -page 7


Sports Brie s 
~b~~~·~T~h~~~u7l~if~t•:r~t·~,.,~.I~I~ll71~7;n7,~.=A~rr~,,~c't~a~t~ed:=P~rt:·•:r:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;::;:::::::::::::::::::::::::::~ 
Sugar Ray Leonard seems headed for a welterweight 
showdown with Tommy llearns in the fall. "We're very close," Mike 
Trainer, Ll'(lllard's attorney, said yesterday, the day after Leonard's 
one-sidl·d victory over Larry Bonds. "It looks real good to me." Trainer 
said the purses, which would run into the milions ofdollars, would be based on percentages. The unbeaten Hearns is scheduled to make a defense of the World BoxingAssociation welterweight title against Randy Shields April 2S in Phoenix. Leonard's next fight will comejune 2S in Houston when he will bid for thl· WBA junior middleweight title against Ayub Kalule. lie then plans another World Boxing Council welterweight title defense against a Top-I 0 contender in August. , l.t·onard's defense against Bonds was his first since he regained the 
title from Roberto Duran last Nov. 2S at New Orleans.-AP 
The Women's Softball Club of Notre Dame 
dropped a season-opening doublc-hl·ader this weekend to St. Francis College (Ft. Wayne). The Irish dropped the first game, 20-6 and the rain-shortened nightcap, 6-4. Notre Dame freshman Carole Zanca had a home run, a single and four RBI in the opener. The team's next game is Sunday in Chkago against George Wiliams College. 
Notre Dame's baseball team swept a double­
header at Huntigton Saturday, winning the first game, 6-S and the 
second, 1-0. Sophomore Bill Matre ( 1-1 ) was the winning pitcher in 
thl· first game, and jim Montagano and Rick Chryst had two hits and 
two R81 apiece. Henry Valenzuela scored in the seventh inning to tie 
_}he game and then drove in George lams with the winning run in the 
eighth. In the nightcap sophomore pitcher Steve Whitmyer ( 1-1) 
allowl·d a hit to the first batter but no more after that, striking out five 
enroute to the victory. Once again, Valenzuela drove in the winning 
run. 
The Irish lacrosse team upended Michigan Satur­day afternoon, 9-H. Freshman attackman Steve Pearsall led Notre Dame with three goals and his first assist of the year. Pearsall's perfor­mant·e followed an individual five-goal outburst against Purdue last Wednesday. Thl· win does not affect Notre Dame's 1-1 season record since it was an l"Xibition contest. The Irish are 2-2 in exibition games. Thl-tl·am's nt·xt match is Friday at Cartier Field against Ohio Weslyan in its Midwl'St Lacrosse Association opener. 
Paul McGowan was also honored as one of the 1980-81 Notre Dame swimming team's most improved at their annual awards gathl·ring last Thursday. In Friday's edition of The Obsert't>r, it wa~ reported that junior john Willamowski won the honor, when in faq he shared it with McGowan, a sophomore diver. 


Classifieds 
USED & OUT-OF-PAINT BOOKS bought. sold. searched ERASMUS BOOKS Tues-Sunday. 12·6 .1027 E Wayne (One block south of Eddy· Jefferson mtersect1on) 
INSTANT CASH PAID FOR CLASS RINGS $20·$85 OR MORE WE MAKE HOUSE CALLS 255·2402 
OVERSEAS ·JOBS -Summe~ear round Europe, S Amer , Australia. Asta. All loelds $500-$1.200 monlhly Soghlsaetng Free tnfo Wrrte IJC. Box 52·1N4. Corona DelMar. CA 92625 
ND-SMC photographers Do you need a model? I need camera ttme x7344 
A study 11 berng conducted on com­panres that sell TEAM PAPERS If you are a student who has turned 1n one of these Papers. or a professor who has receoved one please call Pal at 1728 All calls wtll be CONFIDENTIAL 
Wtll pay cash VW bugs rusled. waffled. roasted. blown 272·5453 
MORRISSEY LOAN FUND Senoors can no longer apply Last day for underclassmen to apply rs Thursday Aprtl2 
WILL DO TYPING CALL 287·5162 
ASSASSINS Tell me an Assassrn slory Only the rnleresllng ones please Call John Hrggm& al t 715 or 8553 
FAAMWORKEA WEEK! FAAMWORKEA WEEK' FARMWOAKER WEEK' 
TYPING -Only $ 65 a page Call Dan. 272-5549 
ThG Obmver (USPS 5!l8 Y20l IS published Monday through Friday except during exam and vc~ca•ion periods Th1 Oburnr Is publish8d by the studrwt~ of Notre Dan.e ~11d Saint Mary's Col lag\' Sulmt ipi•.Hrs may bo purchased for S20 p~r year ($10 par semester) by wrlttnu Tile Observ1r. P0. Box Q. Notre Dame, indtana 46556 Seco~d class postage paid, Notre Dame Indiana 
46556. 
Th1 Ob11rv1r Is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved 
Bobby Knight, the basketball coach of NCAA finalist ,In­diana, was stirred to anger when a fan from Louisiana State University shouted an obscenity at him and shoved the man against a wall in a Cherry Hill, N.J., hotel Saturday night. Knight explained the incident yesterday and said he had no regrets, no apologies and would do the same thing in the same situation again. Knight cntcrl·d the Cherry IHII Inn with four or five other persons about 7 p.m. Saturday when a man "dressed in purple and gold" approached him. "The L'ilJ fans had been yelling, 'Tiger Bait, Tiger Bait, Here Comes Tiger Bait,' to the players," said Knight. "Well, he comes up and says, 'Congratulations,' and I turned around and said, 'We weren't really tiger bait after all, were we?' The guy turned around and shouted, ' ... ' I walked swiftly over to him and asked him, 'Would you like to say again what you just did?' He 
said, 'I just gave you a compliment and you were sarcastic.' I said 'I wasn't sarcastic,' and he said, 'Well, you're an ... ' So rgrabbed him and shoved him up against the wall and then walked away. And if that means I've done something wrong, so be it."-AP 
The Notre Dame-Kentuckybasketball game wilt be played next season on December 29 in Freedom Hall in Louisville, Ky. Tickets for the annual showdown go on sale today by mail order, the lJK ticket office announced. The tickets are S6 each, with a limit of two per order, plus a 51 handling charge on each order. The office accepts only certified checks or money orders, which should be mailed to University of Kentucky Basketball Ticket Oltke, Room 3, Memorial Coliseum, Lexington, Ky. 40S06. 
Confusion abounds as the top interhall basketball teams are replaying part of the double-elimination championship tournament this week. After the Off-Campus team was disqualified for using an ineligible player, a decision was made to allow St. Ed's, the team that otherwise would have made the playoffs, to replay the for­fieted Off-Campus playoff games. Last night Grace defeated St. Ed's, S0-43. Tonight at 7 p.m. in the ACC Pit, Holy Cross will play St. Ed's in a loser's bracket contest. The winner of that game will play Grace tomorrow. The winner oftomorrow night's game will play Howard on Wednesday. Should Howard win, they would be crowned champion. If Howard loses, they will get a re-match on Thursday, a game that will decid~ the title once and for all. 
Martina Navratilovatrounced young AndreaJaegl·r 6­3, 7-6 yesterday to capture the S300,000 Avon Womeii's tennis tournament at Madison Square Garden. The victory for the 24-year­old native of Czechoslovakia, the oldest player in the eight-woman, double-din;~ination tourney, was worth $100,000. jaeger, at Ic; the 
youngest player, earned $52,000. -AP 
---------·----­

LOST. BLUE CANVAS WALLET tn ACC men·s locker room. 3-10·81 PLEASE return wallet. or more rmportantly. tts contenls (my 10. locense.etc) to eother the Psychology dept offrce in Haggar Hall. or tho Counseltng Cenler (4th floor Ad Bldg) -KEEP the cash con­tents as a reward. I JUSt want my ID's, etc!t! NO QUESTIONS ASKED. If you have tnfo about tts whereabouts. please contact Chuck Lepl<Qwsky at 1718 days. or 289-5964 nrghls. 
LOST A green notebook conlainrng biology notes. Th1s 1s cruc1alto my b1ot~ ogy course as well as the MCAT. If found please returo ·~ 305 Sorin halt or call 8542 and c,. I a handsome reward DESPERATE. 
....... 

FOUND Some money near La Fortune durrng break. Call Bob 234·6293 
FOUND Before Break, a BROWN WARM-UP TOP. tn the Volunteer Sevoces van. call Mrke all652. 
FOUND. BLUE COAT AT CORBY:S CALL 4614 FOR INFO 
PLEASE grve me back my wallel! I had grven ~.a good home II was ltke a child lo me. II doesn t have any money rn 11. anyway (I'm not that stuprd.) I tust want my 10 back Call John Hrggms al 1715 or 8553 or bnng up to the OBSERVER offrce 
AVAILABLE NEXT SCHOOL YEAR 2 FIVE BEDROOM HOUSES. NEAR NO. 
LEASE. DEPOSIT. 234·2626 

Housebroken Cartoomst needs Room. roommates. etc. for f1rst semester next year...call Mtchael 1 795 ... while supply lasts! 
[ -------fCJ
WANTED 
--~--·-~ 

Neild AIDE. ItO MILWAUKEE QN THURS. APAIL2 CALL KATIE 4451 
Needed Ride to NW. Chrcago for weekend of April 3. Can leave in after­noon. Call Mary Juloe. 41·4376 
Riders needed to NYC area for Aprtl 1. Call Brtan 6758. 
NEED AIDE TO CINCINNATI AREA WEEKEND OF APRIL 3. CALL BARB AT 41·4726. 

DISCOUNT Must Sell Now 5 Cases Top Quality Pool Chlonne Tablets 277-8561 
.....,... 

FOR SALE. Peavy 300 wall bass amp 15 ln. spkr loke new $325 K8549 
~.---FO_R_R_EN_T____,j[
.____T_IC_K_ETS_] 
I need 3 (lhal's three) graduation trck­Furntshed 4 bedroom house fo next ets (Yes, folks, rl's stapmg already.) It school year close to campus. good you can help me, call Scoop at 1772 
area. 277·3604 or 288·0955 
Need EXTRA GRADUATION TIX badly Summer houses and rooms. furntshed. -PLEASE call Mary Pal at 8091 walk to campus. cheap rent. 277·3604 or 288·0955 
Avarlble tor fall-3&5 bedroom house tn walkmg dtstance of campuus For detaols call after 6pm 232·3284 
PERSONALD 
FOR RENT-UGLY DUCKLING RENT· A·CAA FROM $7.95 A DAY AND 7 CENTS A MILE PHONE, 259·UGL Y FOR RESERVATIONS 
We know. Doug. We KNOW. We're gorng to prrnt rt. Doug You can I stop6 bedrooms $100-mo. each. Each has us. There's nothtng you can do. The door lock and lavatory Communrty Btg Man knows. too. He's going to getllvtng room & krtchen Fully furnoshed 'you. We're going to get you. too. 
2 baths Brcycle storage Free washer & 
Goodbye now. We'll be watching And dryer. Clean. Rated superror. BoK 2513. 
walling

South Bend 46680 
. BUMPERSTICKER 
(1) 
WHEN YOU SAY NOTRE DAME. YOU'VE SAID IT ALL . 

(2) 
WHEN YOU SAY IRISH. YOU'VE SAID IT ALL" $2.00 each. Send check or money or· derto: 


IRISH" PO. BOX3364 CHAPEL HILL. N.C. 27514 
Jeff Jeffers is so ugly. he knows it I I 
Jeff Jeffers face os drsgustong. 
,~;;, For a great Jr. year -Vole Haling. Nairn, Noland & Lindquist: They'll go out on a limb for you!! 
Class of '83 -Vote Haling, Narrn. Noland. Lindquost for the year of your life It! 
THE CIRCUS IS COMING! 
THE CIRCUS IS COMING! 
DAlfTWOOD, Happy B'day. Didn't know. Can I stop by to ABUSE you? SWEET THING 
The FCC has bannedJrm Goode. You'll never see him on TV domg the sports. Jim Goodlt fo UMOC 
TIM AMBINE FOR M.O.M.O.C MOST OBNOXIOUS MAN ON CAMPUS XB 
CLASS OF 1984-Vote for Mrke Spel· lman. Peter Fmocchtaro, Ted Connor and Ttm Roe in the commg resume electtons .. If elected, we promtse to wage a campus-wtde fight agatnst Notre Dame's btggest problem. Female 
Obesity. 
A program of )Oggrng. werghl· framing and dtetettcs wtll be ngorously enforced for all who qualtfy as w'jghly wenches. , 
BETS, 
lsn'l 11 a shame that K.T. hasn'l been able to fmd out where your tan lines begm? 
COTEY How about a tnp 10 lhe arrport? 
Jeft Perry tor UMOC. The only thing ugloer than his facers hrs persona lily 
Googs Just remember-I have pictures to 
support my stones! You only have that motley crew! (P S. Congrats on your promotron!) 

Arl,~o.tSSif•t'•1 ·HI" rTHt"i' ll•· rt-> • ..-;,;t'll t•'f 4 -l~J 1 <ll lv'Vt"' t1,1 ys prr • T.J lht­',..,,,,, ~~~ Y\o 1ltr't1 th" 'tr: •r.; M111 Th.., Obsorvt~r •. ll•r" .·J.I' ,H r t!(H t•.t:.s.tf·~·th. MrH'll.llo' tt•rtl1 qh Fn·l.• I 0 nc 'rn TO ') 00 1-' rn .\ I lot ;-.•f ... ,h "q!SI !.t· jll;'·l).t..t ,., '\tor 'I ·:·:')till ,r thr, 'jll ~11~:: !n.tr: 
SMC Student Activity Programmmg Board is now acceptrng applicatrons for the following charrperson posr­
tJOns. 
-FILM SERIES, ·TRADITIONAL ACTIVITIES ·SPEAKER SERIES ·ENTERTAINMENT (CONCERTS) ·RECREATION and TRAVEL ·COFFEEHOUSE -GENERAL PUBLICITY -PUBLICITY ARTIST ·SAPB SECRETARY ·SAPB TREASURER APPLICATIONS AVAILABLE IN STU· DENT ACTIVITIES'>illif'ICE, LEMANS HALL and ARE DUE BY 9AM. APRIL 2. QUESTIONS? CALL MARY-5754 
BOBBY Rrggs. Don't mention ot! Just get rtd of that nasty backhand and tt'll be a true battle of the sexes!" BollieJEAN 
L1sa and Maureen. IT'S GOING TO BE A GREAT YEAR!! 
Musumect-(moose··a-meesee) Del 1. 
n: an obese. hefty. huge. ommense. titanic, mastadontc, elephanttne. dumpy. endomorphoc. well ted. top· heavy, bo ttom·heavy, moddle·heavy. very heavy, repugnant. gruesome. mis­shapen. hornd. repulsrve. ghastly. vul· gar, reek mg. odorous. foul. putnd, vtle. rank person 
KURILA (ALIAS BEANE A) Here·s the pesonal you·ve· been lookrng for all these months. 
MIKE MAl. Learn how to play a REA-L Purple Haze·· Jtmt HendrtJC 
FARMWOAKEA WEEK! FAAMWOAKER WEEK I FARMWOAKEfo1 WEEK 
1ane-o. the weather ts beaultful wtsh you were here wtlh love. lrm ps-wrtle soon or d1e 
TO THE GIRL AT THE PENN STATE-NO SOCCER GAME. WE TALKED ABOUT FOOTBALL~PE TO SEE YOU AT PSU·ND FOOTBALL GAME AEPL Y DAVE HARTMAN. 602 SPROUL. UNI· VERSITY PARK. PA. 16802 
OOOOOH BABY !II! FOR GOOD TIMES PARTICIPATE IN FA R.M W 0 A K E A w· E E K ! !! 
TENNISJ~!Bitm\~ 
Notre Dame 8, Ball State I 
SINGLES No. 1 -Mark McMahon (NO) ·def. Scott. Appledorn 6-2. 6-0 No.2-Rusty Schubert (BS) def. Herb Hopwood 6-4. 6-2. No. 3 -Mark Hoyer (NO) del Mark Waldnoe 6-3, 6-3. No.4-Jrm Falvey (NO) del. Tom Lazoff 7-5, 3-6, 6·0. No.5-Tom Hatzell (NO) del. Ed O'Korn 6-2, 5-7. 6-2. No.6-Tom Robrson (NO) del Jeff Sur­
ratt, 6-2. 6-0  
DOUBLES  
No.  1  - Hopwood·Hoyer  (NO)  del  
Appledorn-Schubert 7-6, 7-6.  
No.  2  - McMahen-Falvey  (NO)  del  
Waldnoe-Surratt 3-6. 6-3. 6-4  

No.3-Tim Noonan-Paulldztk (NO) del Lazoff-Charles Arch 6·3. 6-4 Notre Dame 6, Indiana State 3 
SINGLES No. 1 -Mark McMahon (NO) del. Tom Csipkay 6-2, 7-5 No. 2 -Herb Hopwood (NO) del. Jeff Weber 6-2. 7-5. No.3-Mark Hoyer (NO) del Jeff ol!vis 6-1.6-2 No.4-Jtm Falvey (NO) del. Chuck Nor­man 3-6, 6-3. 6-3. No. 5 -Tom Hartzell (NO) Galen Scott 
6-3.6-3 • • • ......~ ­No.6-Mrke Hambrock (ISU) del Tom Robrson 6-3 6-1. DOUBLES No. 1 -Csipkay-Weber (ISU) del Hopwood-Hoyer 7-5.4-6. (7·4). No. 2 -Scott-HamtJrock (ISU) del McMahen-Falvey 6·3. 3·6. (8-6) No.3-Trm Noonan-Paulldzrk (ND) del. Norman· Terence Chaney 6-2. 7-6 (5-1) lrrshRecord.13-6 Next Match. Wednesday at W Mtchrgan 

NCAA Basketball Tourney 
Saturday's Results 
National Semrtinals lndrana 67, Louisiana St. 49 North Carolina 78. Vtrgtnta 65 
Tonight's Games Consolalton Loursrana St. (31-4) vs Virgmra (28-4) Champronshrp Indiana (25-9) vs North Carolina (29-7) 
M Don't worry. 29 os over Ihe holt. nol 23 Hope you had greal week HAPPY BIATHDAYII!I 
Love. K.DD.Mup.Specs 
HAPPY 21st BIRTHDAY ANNE LETCHER WE LOVE YOU! S,J.T.L.M.L.M 
BARBIE -GOOD LUUCK IN THE ELECTION · I M SURE YOUU LL WIN I VP deL AVENIRI 
LOVE SUSIE B 
Moe, qurl waollng trll lhe last nrghl to ftnd a dale Guys ltke you-need at least two weeks lo get a dale! Hackerll 
Whal does Mary Arkoosh use her SHEEP SHED for? Call hel al 4·1·4827 and fond oul lor Ihe amaztng story 
brucegod, we no koob lalely call we go oul we koob maybe r pay t scoop 
..,... 
•ready especrally_tf youP,"Y brucegod 
0 Where do me;:;.b~;~·--~t a secrelove soc1ety meet m the Yukon? A Allhe Moose-ontc Lodge 
(One tor the ecumenrcal among you J Moose Control 
My Reslless Herd rs absurd' Bur dead· ly The Vantans dre routed m all sec­tors. But rt has been too easy Somethtng tS _nut nght. I feel 11 I am 
wary Moose Control 
Mrke. Juloe. Mark. Amy. MAll Mrmr. Ike. 
Roily and Pally. 
It wasn"t the food that made the dm· ner so good.. tl was t~e company "' Thanks for such a fun evenrng By the way, neJCI ttme we do 11. do you thmk we could eat the cake tnstoad of wearmg tf? Than~s agatn 
Montca 
Need rrde to Northern Jersey or Allen· lown. Pa. for Easier Break Call Mrke at 4579 
Very Funny! OK. you know who you are The JOke·s over Whoever stole my clothes from Badtn's laundry room thrs weekend. call1601 
Dave, 
Congratulattonsl I wasn t sure thai you would be able lo accomplosh such a feat. t hope thts wrll make your last srx 
-~ weebat school more memorable Momca 
.. 


----~­



S~orts 
First practice 

Curious cro-wd 
By PAUL MULLANEY 

Spt)rts Writer 
It wasn't your typical football practiu:. ABC-TV was there. Sports Illustrated was there:. All ofthe local media wne there. Hundreds of in· terc:sted spectators were there. 
There was an air of excitement at Cartier Field Saturday as Gerry Faust took to the turf for the first time as Notrt· Dame's football coach. The opening of spring football drills seemed more like a circus than a practice -to t·veryhody hut Gerry F;mst, that is. 
"W-ert· there a lot of peoplt: around today?" the new Irish coach joknl after the workout. ..As long as they don't get in tht· way, it doesn't bother me." · 
·word otTaust's opt·n workout ses­'ion. plus the concurrent Notre l>;lmt· Invitational trat·k meet on the Cartil'f all-weather track, brought out the huge crowd in the 6S-degree ~unshint·. And the enthusiasm seemnl to spreau from Faust to everyone on hand. 
"We couldn't have asked for a bet­ter day," smiled Faust. "Did you see how they (the players) snapped out onw the field for the first day? I'm really proud i>f them. 
"There's been a lot of desk work so far. That's part of the job. But you know, I relax a lot more out here than I do in the office." 
Saturday's itinerary did not in­dude relaxation. however. The players had been ci>nditioning for the last month. so Saturday's drills took place in full pads. Each school is allowed 20 such practices in a ~6­day period. Notre Dame's sp~pg drills will come to a dose with the 
May  2  Blue-Gold  Game  at  the  
Stadium.  _.  
"This  spring  we  hope  tq ~~c­ 

complish three things," said Faust. "First, we want to set up our offense and ddense. ~econd. we've got to work on fundamentals. And then we want to learn what our players can 
do." 
While it will take the entire spring for Faust to learn the talents of his new team. the Irish staff didn't waste any time in getting started Saturday. The practice induded littlt: contact, as each unit broke down for separate drills. 
Linl'lnen spt·nt much time working on fundamentals. Defensive backs and linebackers keyed on pur­suit drills. And the offensive back­field and receivers started running through some basic new sets and formations. 
"We'll do a lot of throwing and running, but not as much hitting at first," said Faust. "The hitting will come: soon with the scrimmages and games. But you don't want to do too much ofthat. 

"It was really a good first practice. We threw a lot at 'em today, and they picked it up well." 
IRISH ITEMS: Faust has made only one major positron change from last year. Steve Cichy, who suffered a chipped vertebra in his upper back on the first play of the 1980 season, has been moved from strong safety to an outside linebacker slot . . junior-to-be Mark Zavagnin, who was second 1in the team in tackles last year with 82, was moved to the second linebacking squad. The first team of linebackers on the depth 
Monday, March 30, 1981-page 8 



on Cartier 
chart·eonsists ofcaptain Bob Crable 
in the middle, flanked by Joe Rud­
zinski and Rick Naylor. 
About the depth chart, Fausts says, " "That doesn't mean a thing. You've got to start from somewhere. That's what spring football is all about -to see who can do what." Fausl's spring-opening depth chart was formulated, for the most part, from Dan Devine's final depth chart ofthe 
1980 season. 
Thirteen of the players who took .the field in full pads were wearing red pull-over jerseys, indicating that they arc injured. This is due to Faust's new rule that "everybody dresses, unless hospitalized." 
"Unless they can't walk, they'll dress," Faust says. "They gotta be part of the team. We don't want anyone messing around on the sidelines. And I've found that they get healthy quick that way." 
Among those "standing out" practice were split end Tony Hun­ter, defensive end Tony Belden, and Crable. Hunter's ankle is still bother­ing him slightly from last year's in­jury. .Belden is being bothered by his 
See SPRING, page 6 

NO Invitational 

Track team runs away to victory 
By MATT HUFFMAN 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame's own track invita­
tional may have been a non-scoring 
affair, but· the Irish clearly showed 
that they were the best team Satur­
day. The wind, and not the visiting· 
teams often proved to be the 
primary opponent to tht: Irish. 
Senior co-captain Chuck Aragon 
had his problems with the wind, 
though it may not have been readily 
evident as he won the I SOO-meter run by a wide margin. "Chuck ran a respectable race," said head coach Joe Piane. "There were two things that kept him from running a good one though. First there was the wind, and aL-;o the level of the com­petition wasn't there to push him." 
The caliber of the opposition was 
not outstanding as the Irish were 
able to place (in the top six) in 14 of 


Heels, Hoosiers viefor­National Championship 
PIIILADEIJ>HIA (AP)-Call it "D-Day." The tenacious man-to­
man defense: of Indiana Coach 
Ilohhy Knight takes on the mul­
tiple 1.one "junk" defenses of 
:'llorth Carolina Coach _Dean 
Smith in tonight's NCAA basket­
ball championship. 

Though both eschew talk of a confrontation between two of tht· nJtion·~ linest colkge basket­hall coacht·s. it is impossible to .1void charanc:rizing tonight's :'llCAA championship game as anything else. 
In his I 0 year!>-at Indiana, Knight has changed the character of Big Ten Conference basketball from a high-scoring, wide-open brand ofplay to one ofthe lowest scoring kagues in the country. He has done it with <1 man-to-man ddcnst· exdusivdy, and his theory of teaching it has been repetition and simplicity. 
.. :\1y two all-time: favorite people arc Hank lba and Pete Newell," Knight said. "If I ever 
' 
played a zone defense, they'd dis­own me, so I'll hang onto them as friends. 
"All three of us fed that in our 
approach to the game, we'd 
rather work with one defense, 
the rrian-to-man, and bend and 
mold that rather than play with a 
lot ofdifferent defenses." 
Knight credits the legendary 
lba, former coach at Oklahoma 
State, and Newell, a former Uni­
versity of San Francisco coach 
now in the front office of the 
Golden State Warriors, with help­
ing him create the defense that 
has made lndrana a national 
power. 
"We like to play our man-to­
man best," Smith said, explaining 
his theory, "but then we want to 
be able to throw out some junk. 
It's probably true that you can't 
play each defense as well when 
you play so many, but it also takes . more preparation to play us." 
See FINALS, page 6 
the IS events they entered in the 19­tcam meet. Still Notre Dame was on­ly able to win three events out of20, which Piane said was predictable. "We could have scored a lot more if we had switched a few people into different events or had ·some people double." 
Brian McAuliffe was one of the three first place finishers for the Irish. The senior co-captain hopped, skipped and jumped his way 45-feet, :tS-inches in the triple jump, more than two feet better than second place Greg Smith ofValparaiso. 

Tim Twardzik was the third Irish winner. The senior from Shenan­doah, Pa., won the grueling 400­meter intermediate hurdles. "Tim did very well," said Piane. "He'll be a big help to us in the hurdles this year." In addition to that victory Twardzik placed in the high hurdles and ran a good leg in the mile relay._ 
Though without a first place finish, Paul Doyle might very well have been the outstanding perfor­mer in the meet for Notre Dame, or at least the most versitle. The junior decathelete placed third in the javelin, third in the shot put and ran 
in the 110-meter high hurdles, and on the mile relay B-team with Twardzik. 
See TRACK, page 6 



A three-ring circus! 
"Huny, burry, step right up and see the greatest show on earth!" 
·From the opening exercise to the closing prayer, it seemed more like a circus than what it actually was ­merely the opening day ofNotre Dame's spring football season. Everywhere you looked you saw people, televi­sion cameras, (people). reporters, (people). little kids, (people). autograph books, (people), people... 
Which is not to imply that interest in Fighting Irish 
gridiron affairs is not (or should not be) a year-round, 
24-hour-a-day business. There, have always been, and 
probably always will be, the not-so-select group of 
fanatic fans that congregate every time a Notre Dame ·football player runs a wind sprint. 
But, !>aturday was different. Saturday was more than 
just a get-together to work out the winter kinks. Satur­
day was Gerry Faust's debut as head football coach, and 
words alone cannot recreate the excitement generated 
by that event. 

Sports Illustrated was there. ·so was Dave Diles of 
ABC, who seemed to think that Faust had nothing better 
to do than, "just walk this way towards the camera, Ger­
ry. You don't have to say anything. Just walk." And Faust, 
needless to say, went out of his way to help out. 
"Is this OK, Dave? Is this what you want?" he asked. 
Diles nodded his approval. If not, Gerry would have 
done a retake. 

But don't get the idea that he only posed for network television and national magazines. Everytime a doting father shoved a bewildered child in his way for "A picture coach? How about a picture?" Faust smiled, gra­ciously obliged, tostlcd the little tyke's hair and never let on that he had hundreds of things, seemingly much more important, to get done. 
And the amazing thing was, he got all ofthem done­on time, with a flourish. For while most ofthe buzzards in attendance lost sight of the purpose of this little gathering, Faust knew exactly why he was there. 

"These first few days will give us a chance to get to know the players," he told yet another reporter who dared aslv him the virtues ofspring football. "Besides, I couldn't wait to begin!" 
And so he began on historic Cartier Field where, since 1887, many legends have been built and, likewise, many graves have been dug. It's a make-you-or-break­you place, Notre Dame is. But Faust knew that long before he took the job. Ifhe didn't, he's certainly been reminded ofit many times since. 
Like Saturday, for instance, when multitudes ofmedia types traipsed after him from drill to drill; pens poised to record every word as if he were a State Department spokesman instead ofa first-year college football coach. 
And then they watched, quietly, as he stormed the field, offering encouragement, providing suggestions, whenever and wherever he felt it was needed. He was loud. He was enthusiastic. He was different. But he warned them. They knew what to expect. 
''I'm the kind of coach who needs to be involved," he's said on many occasions. "I can't coach from a tower or stand on the sidelines. I need to be out there. I'd go crazy otherwise." 
So he was out there. Screaming, yelling, cajoling, correcting. But always with compassion; always with style. 
And those_who witnessed 'it slowly came to realize that concern about Gerry Faust's ability to go from high school to college would soon be buried with the other bum steers, somewhere under the grass on Cartier Field. 






