• • .Activities Night-page 4 

. VOLUME XVI, NO. ~ MONDAY, AUGUST 31, 1981
.111 mdqwndnu .:,tudent nt'w..,paper serving notre dame and saint mary's 
Costill disrnsses joys, appeal of running 

Dozens ofNotre Dame st11dents escaped from S11nriay s111riying to ret11rn to 
Dr. David Costill, a world renown exerczse physiologist, director of the Human Ph_yszology Lab at Ball State University, and writer for Runner magazine, was in South Bend last weekend to lecture on the health aspects of n~nnmg. His was the first in a series of running clinics leading up to the October 18 

sportsmed 10-kilomeler race in South Bend. Observer Senior 
Staff Reporter David Sarphie interviewed Dr. Costi/1 dun'ng a n~n on camp~s. 
What separates the Craig Virgins and Bill Rodgers from other athletes? 
The world-class runners are gifted--there is no question about that. Their curculatory systems differ from those of other athletes and make it so they can handle the strain of distance running. Also the makeup of their muscle fibers enhances their running abilities. In our work at the lab at Ball State University, we analyze these muscle fibers to determine the percentages of fast twitch and slow tWitch muscle fibers in the body. Miters tend to have about ~0

. 
percent fast twitch fiber while marathoners usually have about n ~rcenr_ ~low twitch fiber in tlieir muscles. Not only are their bodies different, but their training programs differ as well. The great runners have the advice and guidance and ~reat coaches to help their traimng, and that's a big factor. 
What kind ofprogram would yo11 s11ggest for a f"'lnner interested in competition? 
There are plenty ofprograms available. Of course, .it depends on the type of racing the runner would be doing. Basically, training programs involve two types of exercise: aerobic and anaerobic. These differ in how energy reaches 
See Q&A, page 3 

'Governor Moonbeam' 

Brown fosters new, more practical image 
SACRAMENTO• Calif. (AP) --Last year, Jerry Brown was humiliated in the Democratic presidential primaries and ridi­culed in comic strips as "Governor Moonbeam." 
This year, he's been be­sieged by allegations ofpolitical misconduct by his staff, an aborted impeachment drive and the plague of Mediterranean fruit flies, which some critics 
say he helped aggravate be­cause he vacillated on pesticide 

Two men rob students of money at gunpoint 
By DAVE GROTE 
News Staff 
Five Notre Dame students were robbed at gunpoint late 
Friday night while they were sitting in a parked car behind a 
house at 801 N. St. Louis Blvd., South Bend Police said 
yesterday. 

The students, who were attending a party at that address, told police they were appraoched by two males, one of whom was carrying a revolver. 
John Mahaney, 20, a junior at Notre Dame who was in the car reponed that the men demanded money from the students. When the students responded that they didn't have much money, one of the men reportedly held a ~un to Mahaney's head and repeated the demand, to whtch the students then complied. 
CHRIS Carroll, also aND student and one of Mahaney's housemates, said that while he was inside the house he heard a gunshot, at which point he came out ?nto the back por~h. Apparently the men, while trying to get tnto the car, met wtth some resistance and fired a shot into the air to scare the occupants of the car, said Carroll. 
WHEN Carroll reached the porch, he said, the man 
holding the gun pointed it at him, but, hearing more people 
coming toward the back door, they fled the scene, he added. 
A spokesman for the South Bend Police Dept. said yesterday that police repo~ts did not list ~e value .of the stolen objects, but Saturday s South Bend Tnbune esttmated their worth at approximately $400. 
Police said they have no suspects in the case. 
spraymg. 
Nevertheless, however dimly his political star may be glim­menng, theCalifornia _governor is back on the campatgn trail, running for the Senate seat held by Republican S.I. Hayakawa. 
And, on the Democratic side, Brown is leading in the early polls. 
He has already raised $1. 2 million for his campaign, more then double what his nearest foe has raised. And despite his erratic record as a rrestdential candidate, Brown ts regarded as persuasive campaigner in California, which is ~ore recep.­
tive than other: regrons to hts 
futuristic "Spaceship earth" 
platform and his philosophy of 
"small is beautiful." 
In this campaign, Brown ts not abandoning those themes, but he is sounding more like traditional politicians. 
Instead of talking about "the 


existential ed~e." as he did in the Wisconsm primary last year, Brown now talks about helping the American elec­tronics industry gain "the com­petitive edge'' over Japan. He still quotes "The Whole Earth Catalogue," but now notes when ''Fortune Magazine'' says the same thing. 
Brown disputes susgestions he is deliberately avmdi~g the phrasing that triggered the 
'Governor Moon beam'' 
spoofs, but he conceds there is 
a different emphasis. "I'm not 
static. The world doesn't stand 
still," he says. 
Brown says he is running on his "record of accomplish­ments" as a governor the past six years: "We've dropped from third to 25th among the states in taxes per capita. We're creating jobs at a rate ~0 percent higher than the rest of the nation. On crime, we have tougher laws and tougher judges. We're sending twice as many people to prison." 
In the Democratic primary nextJune 8, Brown's principal challenger will likely be As-
See BROWN, page 3 

Five die 

Bomb blast injures Iranian officials 
BEIRUT, Lebanon (AP) --A powerful explosion rtpped through the prime ministry in Tehran yesterday, injuring Iran's president and prime minister, Tehran Radio report­ed. 
President Mohammad Ali Rajai and the prime minister Hojatolslam Mohammed J avad Bahonar, were taken to a hospital, the state-run radio 
said. There  was  no  word  on  
how  seriously they  were  in­ 
jured.  

The official Pars news agen­cy said frve people were killed and 1~ wounded, with some of the bodies "burned beyond recognition" in the explosion and ftre that followed. 
In a broadcast interview, Iran's parliament speaker con­

demnea the explosion as a ''last ditch effort by American hirelings" and satd the two injured leaders were together in the room when the explosion took place. -· 
"Just as our evening session was due to start ...we heard the sound of an explosion, followed by a thick column of smoke rising from the prime minister's office building," the speaker said. "The session began, and it was only later that we learned that the explo­sion had occurred in a room which President Rajai and Pre­mier Dr. Bahonar were ~ath­ered with several others. ' 
The ex£.1osion at 3 p.m. (7:30 
a.m. EDT) touched off a ftre, 
but the official Pars news aRencv said the blaze was 
"tully. under control" within two hours after t~e explosion. 
No group claimed responsibil­
ity for the blast. 
Iran has been rocked by political violence since the ) une ouster of moderate Pres­tdent Abolhassan Bani-Sadr. 
Rajai, who had been ,Prime 
minister of the revolutionary 

regime, was elected without serious opposition to succeed Bani-Sadi in July. Bahonar then was appointed to ftll the vacant post o( prime minister. 
Tehran Radio said the cab­inet was called into an extra­ordinary session at sundown by Rafsnjani to discuss "impor­tant matters of state, including the explosion at the prime minister's office." 

Monday, August 31, 1981 -page 2


NewsBrie_b 
====~========~================================~ 
by The Ob"server and The Associated Press 
Grenade attack arrests made 
Officers in Vienna, Austria, investigating a bloody grenade attack on a downtown synagogue made six more arrests yesterday, police reponed. Several hours before the arrests, the investigators announced the discovery of evidence they· said linked the Palestine Liberation Organization to two men arrested immediately after Saturday's attack. But the PLO condemned the assault, while the Israeli government and Austrian Chancellor Bruno Kreisky accusea each other of following ,POlicies that foster terrortsm. A police spokesman said th~ siX people arrested yesterday were young men, but said he could "say absolutely nothing more." There were unconfirmed reports that the six were taken into custody at an apartment in northeast Vienna near the Danube River. Two people were killed Saturday and about 20 injured by bullets, shrapnel and broken glass outside the 155-year-old Israelite Temfle in Vienna's old jewish quaner. Police said they were stil unsure yesterday of the exact injury toll. --AP 
College expenses climb high nationwide 
College expenses will take a record jump this school year after a decade of relatively modest inflation, according to a survey by the College Board. At more than a dozen East Coast colleges, students face a tab of more than $11,000. The survey of 1,160 four-year universities and colleges, has been conducted each year since 1970 bythe College Scholarship Service, the fmancial aid division of the College Boaid, a non-proftt organization representin~ many U.S. colleges and universities. Total expenses, includmg tuition and fees, room and board, books and supplies, and transportation and personal expenses, will average $6,885 at private four-year colleges, and $3,873 at public four-year schools. Students face double-digit increases whether they commute to school or live on campus, and at both private and public colleges, the survey said. Average resident student costs at private colleges will go up an average $803, or 13 percent, or $464 on average, according to the survey. Tuition and fees alone will jump an average 13 percent, or $430 at private schools, and $113, or 16 percent, at public colleges. -· AP 
Alleged attacks made in Angola 
Angola contended yesterday that South Africa captured a southern A.ngolan provincial capital and eight small towns in renewed atr and ground attacks. South Mrica branded the reports as ''nonsense'' The official Angolan news agency Angop reported that the South African troops had occupied the southern provin~ial ~apital of Cunene on SaturdaY.. The agency, momtered m Ltsbon, Portugal, said the Defense Mi~istry reported An~olan forces shot down ftve South Afncan warplanes dunng the ftghting. A South Mrican D~fense Force spokesman said yesterday the reports were ''JUSt another example of the mass propaganda that is being fed the world.'' The spokesman, who declined to be identified, said the chief of the Defense Force Gen. Constand Vilj_oen had said the troops entered Ang~la last ~onday to wtpe out black nationalist guerrillas seeking an mdependent South-West Mrica, also called Namibia. --AP 
Alligator taxodermy business booming 
Louisiana's alligator season starts today, and that means business will be snapping for Mike Stansbury, who turns 'gators into somethmg more lasting than shoes or poketbooks. Alligators, which don't always look too lively in real life, do when Stansbury, a licensed taxidermist, ~ets done with thf!m. "We sculpture a body to match the origmal body," Stansbury said. "We try to ftve the sculpture an active pose--like it's jumping and biting. Not just lying in the mud like they usually are." Stansbury and partner Gary Bell are gearing up for more business. "I've just had three people come in," satd Stansbury, 50. "One was fr:om Protugal, and he wants me to take him on a hunt.'' The hunter will have to wait before he can take a trophy home from the local swamps. Stuffin~ and skinning the big reptile isn't easy. "Try to imagine JUSt how you would undo your shirt and take it off," Stansbury said. "We do it the same way." .. AP 
Weather 
Warm and humid with a 50 percent chance of showers and thunderstorms today and tonight. High today and tomorrow in the low and mid 80s. Low tionight in the mid and upper60s. ·· AP · 

Surviving the scare 
Almost anyone, at any time, can spot freshmen. They're the ones who walk around campus with their parents on that next-to-last Saturday in AUgust looking bewildered, yet excited. They're the ones who get lost on the way to class, the cafeteria, the bookstore, the bathroom --just about anywhere. They're the ones who look near tears in the library, wondering if they'll be prepared for the biology exam in three weeks. 
The first year of college can be on of the most frightening and challenging experiences. One is forced to co\'e with both academic and social areas: adjustmg to a roommate as well as other students on the floor; buying books and attending classes; facing the pressures of tests and papers as well as the pleasures of tailgaters, athletic events and other occasions which relieve the pressure for awhile. 

For upperclassmen, coming back to school probably wasn't anr. big deal. After a summer of re-adjusting to family, along with a summer job, one was ready for the trip back to see friends, the bars and the other pleasantries of college life. But try to remember the ftrst time you came to either Saint Mary's or Notre Dame to begin your college career. 

Remember watching all those other freshmen, who, along with their parents, struggled throug~ traffic to find your dorm? Remember unloading all the necessities (which have 

' probably doubled in size now to include a stereo, a bar amd other items upperclassmen need to exist) into your room, waiting to meet a roommate or neighbors before you and your parents rushed off to all those vital orientation meetings? Remember watching your parents driving away, leaving you to sort· through the disorganization that awaited you back m the room? Remember wondering what ever made you want to leave home in the ftrst place? ~hen there were tho.se pre-dance parties whtch preceded that festtve ACC occasion (the four-hour dance in which everyone stares at everyone else, stays near roommates, and perhaps, even dances). And who could forget the picnics? A chance to see both campuses and become nauseous at the smell of hamburgers, cole slaw and punch. And the ftrst class. Your 
r--The_OhserYer_ 
Design Editor Deirdre Murphy Design Assistants 
Randy Rentner Greg Swiercz 
News Editor 
Lynne Daley 
Copy Editors 
Mary Fran Callahan Steve Navarre 
Sports Co/Jv Editor 
Mark Hannuksda Typists Mary Fran Callahan Lynne Daley Bruce Oakley Greg Swiercz 
Ad Design
Perk, Shag, Mary, Corbs 
Photographer 
Carrie Koplin 


ORqanJzatJonal meet1nq 


7:00pm 1n Ln.~RaRy aubJtORJum monbay, auqust 31 

n.O. 


ftrst look at college academics. The big time. A syllabus and everything. It made you want to head to the library immediately, right? 
Orientation festivities do help that ini~l adjustment,, but what happens when on~ becomes stck of the weekend party ritual (including the questions ''where are you from?,'' ''where do you live?,'' and the ever popular "what's your major?")? What happens when the friends one thought were the closest in high school start to sliP. away and life at either ND or SMC takes a different focus away from them. What hapl?ens when the A's (or maybe even the B's) don tcome too easily anymore and one must accept the idea of lower grades? What • happens when, either this semester or next, a lot of that initial enthusiasm begins to wear-off and the fact that college can be, at times, a lot of hard work, settles in? 
Then the process of re-adjustment begins. Feshmen worries and concerns tend to be swept away in the push of college and frosh are expected to continue and "get through it all." Getting "through it," however, can be tough, but can be done. Gradually the ftrst papers and tests are completed, the vacations (October break, Thanksgivin~ breck, Christmas) come, and a freshmen begms to choose his friends and 
activities and  carve  his  own  life  instead  of  
allowing college life uncomfortable shape.  to  carve  him  into  an  

College life isn't so overwhelming. Seniors, juniors, and sophomores still exist at both St. Mary's and Notre Dame as proof that freshmen year, as difficult as it may seem at times, can be survived. The frustrations and fun somehow balance themselves out and time flows on. Freshmen become more assured, assertive and confident that they can "cut it." "This year I feel so together about things," one St. Mary's so\'homore remarked. "I know that things are gomg to work out somehow.'' 
Believe it or not, some upperclassmen would actually enjoy being a freshman again. 
Observer notes----------------------, 
Three appointments were announced last ni~ht by Editor-in Chief]ohn McGrath.kelli Fhnt, a junior from ehicago, IL, has been appoin.ted News Editor. Michael Monk, a junior from Denville, NJ, has been appoint­ed J;>roduction manager. Anthony Walton, a semor from Batavia, IL, has been appointed Features Editor. 
PRe-law soc1ety announces 


senioRs 

Editorial Board and Department Managers 
Editor-in-Chief..... . ......... .john McGrath SMC ExecutlrJe Editor ..................... Mary Agnes Carey 
Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 

Managing Editor.... .. ..............Tomjackman SMC News Editor ................................Cathy Domanico
The Observer is an independent newspaper published by the students ot the 
Executive News Editor ..............................Lynne Daley Photo Editor...................................................)ohn Macor
University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily 
Neu•s Editor ........... .................................Tim Vercellotti reflect the policies of the administration of either institutton. The news is reponed Business Manager ....................................Rich Coppola as accurately and as objectively as possible. Editorials represent the opinion of a Senior Copy Editor ......... , ....... ..... Mary Fran Callahan Controller.........................................................Joc Mul.ftur majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, opinions, and letters are the views Sports Editor ............................... ....... Michael Ortman Adr,ertising Manager......................................Mark Ellis of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community. and 
Circulation Manager ........................Tom Macunnan
the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters. is encouraged. 
~--------------------------------~-------­
The Observer -continued from page 1 Monday, August 31, 1981 -page 3 

• • .Q&A 
continued from page 1 
the muscles. Aerobic exercises use energy with oxygen and stem from long distance run­ning. Anaerobic exercises need energy without oxygen. These are short sprints wh1ch force a runner into oxygen debt and enhance his anaerobic capa­
continued from page 1 
semblyman Leo McCarthy of Sfin Francisco, former speader of th!! state Assembly and 
Brown's 1976 presidential cam­paign chairman. McCarthy has since become one of Brown's most vocal 
' Democratic critics, especially after Brown endorsed a series of conservative economic pro­posals, among them the tax­cutting Proposition 13. 
In addition to Hayakawa, who Fni:nds ofthe groom sing for the bnde at Saturday night's at 75 is seeking re-election Polish wedding. [Photo by Carrie Koplin] despite party urging to step 
aside, the GOP race is full of 
• CIINEIHAI * 


monday night film series 
An eclactic series of films shown In conjunction with the course GOTH 140 (Basics of Film Studies) and sponsored by the Department of CommuniCation & Theatre. The series is histoncally and nat1onally varied, not only to suit the pur­pose of the class, but also to prov1de l~_cal VIewers w1th the opportunity to see films not otherwise available here 
All show~ngs'" the Annenberg Auditorium, the Snlte Museum of Art, Notre Dame campus at 7:30 P.M. 
Individual Admissions $1.00 
Monday, August 31 
Day for Night Directed by Francois Truflaut, 1972 
(116 min.) Truflaut's love song to the cinema. A funny, wllty, warm, comple. film about . well, about the making of a film. With Jacqueline Bisset, Jean-Pierre Aumont, Pierre Leaud, Valentina Cortese. 
Monday, September 7 Cltlz•n Kan• Directed by Orson Welles, 1941 (119 min.) Llltlo can be added to the thousands of words already spent on this genuine classic of film art. With Welles, Joseph Cotten, and 'all the talent of I he Mercury Players. Greg Toland s•gnlllcantly extended the range of cinematic language In this 111m. 
Monday, September 14 
"Z" Directed by Costa·Gravas, 1968 (127 rrin.) The political thnller-a new genre-burst upon the scene with this taut, exciting, committed 111m With Yves Men­land, Irene Pappas, Charles Denner 
Monday, September 21 
Monaleur Verdou11 Directed by Charles Chaplin, 
1947 (123 min.) War, violence, crime, morality; are these really subjects lor a comedy? They are, when the lorm Is in the hands ol a geniuS like Chaplin. Particularly relevant now when we seem Immersed In one or all of the above. 
Monday, September 28 
It Happen•d One Night Directed by Frank Capra, 
1934 (105 min.) With Clark Gable as a wisecracking news,.aper reporter and Claudette Colbert as a spoiled heiress who meet on a Greyhound bus. This 111m was responsible for the virtual demise ol the American men's underwear Industry (upper torso division) when Clark Gable removed his shirt to reveal all. 
Monday, October 5 
Padr• P•drone Directed by Paolo and Vltorlo Tavlanl, 
1977 (114 min.) A recurrent prizewinner (Cannes Film Festival, etc.), this rich and complex 111m demonstrates the continuing vitality ol the Italian cinema. This beautllul 111m explores human relationships with a density worthy ol a great novel. 
Monday, October 12 
Ylrldlana Directed by Luis Bunuel, 1961 (90 min.) The great Surrealist master Is at It again, thls·IJme staging a veralon olthe Last Supper to end all versions. Full of verve, wit, and Insight. 

Senes Ticket: 13 films for $10.00 
Monday, October 25 

Who'll Stop the Rain? Directed by Carel Reisz, 
1978 (125 min.) Nick Nolte, Tuesday Weld, and Michael Moriarty star in this fine adaptation of Robert Stone's National Book Award­winning novel Dog Soldrers. This 111m should be part ol any dellnltive artistic statement about the 60's In America. 
Monday, November 2 

The White Sh•lk Directed by Federico Fellin/, 
1952 (66 min.) This early Felllnl already develops most of the themes which he would later expand. His acid sense of lun, In· sight, and charm are completely winning. 
Monday. November 9 

lnvaalon of the Body Snatchera Directed by 
Philip Kaufman. 1978 (114 min.) This recent remake of the science fiction classic is being scheduled during the same week as the original (which will screen on Thurs. Nov. 5). Which IS !he belfer? The making ol the comparison may prove more worthwhile than trying to decide. 
Monday, November 16 

Week•nd Directed by Jean Luc Goddard, 1968 
(105 min.) Goddard delivers one ol the great statements about the consumer society in general, and the automotive dream in particular. An Impressive example ol the work ol a major screen dialectician. 
Monday, November 23 

Crl•• and Whlapera Dlrect~d by lngmar Bergman, 
1972 (106 min.) Very few works In the cinema carry this Intensity, honesty and seriousness of purpose. An Invaluable source lor the study of lormal and lnlormal cinematic elements, and, at the same time, an example olthe lormldable Swedish director working at the top ol his bent. A majestic example ol the art olthe cinema. 
Monday, November 30 

Lola Mont•z Directed by Max Ophlus, 1955 (110 min.) Ophlus used cinematic technique at the larthest reaches ol Its possibilities, both technically and artistically. Here, In the story ol the celebrated courtesan, he seems to even outreach hfmsell. 
cities. 

Is a weight program bene­ficial to runners? 
A weight program is O.K.for cross-country and 10-K runners . For the marathoner, though, I find there is little need for upper body strength, except for the sub-five-minute pacers. 
What might be a good 
• • .Brown 
political celebrities. 

. Rep. Barry Goldwater ] r. leads polls for the GOP nomina­tion, followed by Hayakawa, Rep. Pete McCloskey, who in 1972 challenged President Richard Nixon as an anti-war candidate for president, and Maureen Reagan, the pres­ident's daughter. 
lrf!ining proR,ram for a begin­nmg runner! 
Again, I think there are plenty of good textbooks for those who want to begin a training program. It's up to the individual as to which program he prefers. 
Is running explosion continu­ing? 
I don't thi~k t~is running 
boom ~111 co~unue mdefinitely. 
EspecJalJy m the future with the neighborhood joggers. Of course, there will always be a core of running enthusiasts but I don't think the vas~ growth in the ,t>opularity of the sport will contmue. 
Do women experience any special nsks by running? 
Women runners don't experience any more risks than men. Women can no more be made sterile by running than men can. I see no problem with women runners. 



• 
7 DAY ACCESS 
Store all your personal Items 
•Furniture 
• 
Recreational equipment 

•
Automobiles •Inventories •Recorda 


•Boats 
SIZES 

• 
Low Monthly Rates •Paved 5x5 

•Overhead 
Doors •Lighted 10 X 10 •Clean-dry •Fenced 10 X 40 



~
.... ,.. r··, ... ;..............
r~ ~ 

• , ......h ~ -....... 
~j I iUL.. I 
_....... 
Cleveland 
a 
:I University 

~ ~ UNIVERSIT't 
Park Malltl Toll Road 8_ RENT-A-SPACE 

Saint Mary Douglas * 
* Notre Dame 
* 
"Located directly behind ANYTHING GROWS Lawn and G1rden Center" 
Student Players announces open auditions for its production of 
~ 
THE ODJ) COUPLE 
~ 
to be performed Oct. 30 & 31 & Nov. 6 & 7 
Auditions will be held in Chautauqua (LaFortune Ballroom 2nd Floor) 
Tues., Sept 1 at 7 pm & 
Wed., Sept 2 at 8:45 pm 
Also: a production meeting for all interested will be held at 6:30 in Chautauqua on Sun. Sept. 6 


-----------------------------------------------. 
The Observer MoQ.day, August 31 , 1981 -page 4 



Athletes terly 
37. Martial Art Organization 78. Notre Dame Accounting
Stepan Center Map 
38. Notre Dame Tae Kwon Associtation 
Each group named has a table at Activities In order to find each organization, everyone is Do/Karate 79. Alpha Phi Ome~a Night. ~ach group is askedto begin setting up at asked to bring this diagram along to Stepan 39. ND Judo Club 80. American Chemical Society 
5:30 thts afternoon at Stepan Center. Please do Center tonight. 40 Jugglers Club (ACS) not leave any booth unmanned during the course Everyone is urged to attend Activities Night, 41. SSAB 81. Notre Dame Pre-Law Soc. ofthe evening. which wtll runfrom 7 to 10 p.m.. 42. Gamer's Anonymous 82. Thomas More Society 
43. Windsurfing Notre Dame 83. Japan Club
Activities Night in Stepan 

(WIND) 84. Colorado Club 
Center is s.Ponsored by the 

44. Women's Soccer 85. Sr. Marita's
freshman ormtation committee 


SU sc;hedules upcoming events 

82 81 80 79 

t­
....-4 
00 
62 63 64 65 66 

67 68 69 
70 61 60· 59 

58 
55 56 57 
28. People of Praise Club neers 
29. 
ND-SMC Right to Life 71. Arts & Letters Business 

30. 
Urban Plunge Society


Information 

31 ND-SMC Gospel Ensemble 72. AISEC 
32. 
Spiritual Rock 73 ND Historical Society 

33. 
Young Life 74. The McNally Poll 

34. 
Campus Crusade for Christ 75. Management Club 


76. College Bowl 4.. Red Cross 36. Fellowship of Christian 77. Notre Dame Science Quar­
83 84 85 
71 72 73 74 





Activities Night 
78 77 76 
75 \J.J 
......._. 
~ 
0\ 
5. 
CI~ 45. Ski Team 

6. 
Hothne 46. Novice Fencing 

7. 
Head Start 47. ND-SMC Bicycle Club 

8. 
NSHP 48. ND-SMC Gymnastics Team 

9. 
Campus Scouts 49. Pep Rally Committee$ 

10. 
Fun & Learn Council 50. Salling Club 

11. 
World Hunger_ Coalition 51. ND Waterpolo Club 

12. 
Open Door Restdences, Inc. 52. ND Boxing Club 

13. 
MEChf'\ . . . 53. Student Manager's Organ­


14 Memonal Hospttal Auxdtary ization of South Bend 54. Women's Sports 
15. 
Nyloncraft Learning Center 55. Student Umon 

16. 
South Bend Juvenile Cor-56. Student Government rections Project. 57. The Observer 

17. 
Hospice os St. ] oseph 58. The Nazz County 59. Information Services -­

18. 
Children's Dispensary Tour Group 

19. 
Latin American Programs 60. Dome (CEL) 61. Ombudsman Service 

20. 
· Morningside Nursing 62. Scholastic Magazine Hom~ . . 63. ND-SMC Young Democrats 

21. 
Btg Brothers/Big Sisters of 64. Abiogenesis Dance Collect-St. Joseph County ive 

22. 
Northern Indiana State 65. Photogr;phy Club Hospital 66. Film Club of Notre Dame ,23. Council for the Retarded 67. Saint Mary's Collegiate (Logan Center) Choir 


24. 
Council for the Retarded 68. Students for Responsible 

25. 
Elkhart County Probation Energy (SURE) Department 69. International Student or­

26. 
Joir;tt Engineering Council ganization 

27. 
Kmghts of Columbus 70. Society of Women Engi-


By PAUL MC GINN News Staff 
Student Union is sponsoring a variety of events this sem­ester, including homecoming, concerts, plays, trips and lec­tures. 
A tentative Oct. 9 ap~earance by the Beach Boys htghlights activities surrounding the homecoming game against Florida State. In lieu ofa dance, Student Union President Bill Lawler says he hopes to sched­ule a Suitcase Party, with all attending having a chance at a 

Refrigerators 
dorm room size students rates 
CALL 

TAYLOR 



RENTAL 
277-2190--­
1427 N. Ironwood 
grand-prize, one-week trip to the Bahamas. 
The group Foreigner is ten­tatively scheduled for a Nov. 7 appearance in the ACC. 
The annual Country-Rock Jam comes to life Nov. 20 and features the Ozark Mountain 
Daredevils. 
With plans to hold at least two concerts per month in Chataqua, the Lafortune coffee­house, Student Union plans a Sept. 18 show with Bermuda Tnangle, and an Oct. 30 perfor­mance featuring Cliff Gracey. 
A late-October, early-Novem­ber rendition of The Odd Cou­ple, astudent Players' produc­tion, heads the Cultural Arts Commission actitivies. 
Along with the usual ski trips, the Services Committee is planning a trip to the Penn. State game 
George McGovern heads a lecture symposium which in­cludes author Katherine Brady of Father's Day, activist Ralph Nader, actor Williams Widom In a portrayal of James Thurber and Abraham Huriitz, Israeli Minister of Information. 
Eight movies are also sched­uled, including Ordinary People 
on Sept. 25-26, The Graduate on Oct. 28-29, and the Clint Eastwood Film Festival on ~.Q.L. 17-2!.:­
~~~~~~~~ 
t  Come to  t  
~ f t  1HE OBSERVER at ACTIVITIES NI booth GHT  ~ f f  
~  -­ BOOTH 57  t  

...-.~~~~~~~ 
r···············...........................................1 
Rocco's Hair Styling I 531 N. Michigap St.,l South Bend·, 
I \ 
Phone-233-495\7 
.!!JL,
.,. . \ 
1........................................~"'''"''''~ ......1 

:--------------------------------------~-~------------------­


Sports !l!;_~.h,_=-=============M=o=nd=ay='=A=ur=gu=st=3=1=,=19=8=1=-=pa==ge=5::::~ 

by Thl' OhJt•rr•t•,. and Thl' A rruautcd Pn r1 
Football ticket distribution 
Football ticket distribution begins this week. All Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students who purchased season football tickets during the summer should report to the ticket windows at Gate 3 of the Athletic and Convocation Center. The following dates have been designated for picking up student football tickets: seniors·· tomorrow. Juruors and all undergraduate students in their ninth semester or higher ·· Wednesday. Sophomores'/graduate/law students·· Thurs­day. Freshmen ·· Friday. The ticket windows will be open from 8 a.m. until~ p.m. including the noon hour. The Gate 3 doors of the ACC wtll be open at 7:30 a,m, The football ticket committee reminds students that the seats in the student section have NOT been preassigned by the Ticket Office. Therefore, ifa student wishes to sit with a specific classmate, he or she must present an ID with that classmate for adjacent seating. No student may present more than four IDs.Band members and prospective band members should check with band officials regarding ticket distn'bution procedures. 
Married-students who purchased tickets during the summer should report to the ACC with their respective class on the scheduled day. When picking up their tickets, they must present evidence of their marital status. Any student who has not filled out a 1981 student football ticket application may do so by ~ p.m. today, at the ticket office on the second floor of the ACC. Since the June 21 deadline has passed, ticket availability will be on a conditional basis... The Obseroer 


Af\!1 COLLEGE OF SCIENCE STUDENT INTERESTED IN REPRESENTING 
TtiE College of Science on the Academic Council should submit Name and brief Statement of 
Purpose before Sept. 15 to: 
Student council c/o The Office of Dean of Science Rm 229 Nleuwland Science' 


Meeting today for water polo 
TI-lE Notre Dame water polo club will start practice for the fall season this afternoon at 4 p.m. in the Rockne Memorial pool. Newcomers are welcome to attend. For more mformation, contact Pat McDivitt at 381~. ·· The Obseroer. 

Fencers to meet today 
The Notre Dame fencing team will be holding an organizational meeting on Thursday at 7 p.m. in room 411 of the Administration Building. Ali member of last year's varsity team should attend. Freshmen and others interested infencing are asked to sign up at tonight's Activities Night in the Stepan Center. For more information call Rich at 8981. ·· 
The Obseroer 


Lacrosse meeting set 

The Notre Dame lacrosse team will hold a meeting this afternoon at 4:30 p.m. in the ACC auditorium. Anyone interested playing lacrosse shoudl attend this meeting. If you are interested by cannot attdne, call coach O'Leary at 4~63 ... 
The Obseroer. 


• • .Role 
contrnued from page 6 
freshman year in 1979. Others 
working as punt returners are 
Stacey Toran, freshman Joe 
Howard, and ... Tony Hunter? The coaches weren't kidding when they said they want Hunter around the football as much as possible; he's also working wtth the kickoff return people. Isn't that risking Hunter to injury? And why should Hunter be back there when one has other solid people such as juniors Chris Stone (who returned the opening kick­off in the spring Blue-Gold game 97 yards for a touchdown) and Duerson in addition to sophomore Greg Bell and How­ard? . 

''Michigan uses Anthony Carter,'' shrugs Boulac. ''Southern Cal used Anthony Davis. because ofTony's ability, Coach Faust decided to take a look at him back there and see what he can do.'' 

0-C gridders plan meeting in Lafortune 
The off-campus interhall footbll team will hold an organ­izational meeting in the LaFor­tune ballroom tomorrow at 7 
p.m. If you have any questions, call Matt Huffman at 232-0921. 
.------------------=='--'--------··------------->-----------·---------------------. 



Classifieds 
~TICES I 

MORRISSEY LOAN FUND Student loans. $20-$200. 1 percent mterest. Due in one month. One day wait. Opeh every class day 11:30 a.m.­
12:30 p.m. in LaFortune base­ment. 
L£oST/F_OUND ] 

To the person in Prof. Gaski 's 1TT3 Marketing class who picked up my wallet at 2: 30 after class on Thurs. Aug. 27: You and I both know how much cash was contained within. I promise you a substantial por­uon of that money will be yours if you will heed your con­science and return the wallet. You have my ID so you should have no problem if you choose to anonymously return just the empty wallet. I leave it to you; it's in your hands now. Please at least return the ID. Even ifI could, I'm not about to pay $4.4~ for that crap at the dining hall. 
The Oburver (USPS 598 920) IS 

published Monday through Fnday 
except du11ng exam and vacation 
pe11ods The Observer 1s publtshed 
by the stur1ents <Jf Notre Dame and 
Samt Marys College Subscnpt1ons 
may be purchased for $30 per year 
(~ 15 per semester) by wnttng The Ob­
server. P 0 Box Q Notre Dame In­
diana 46556 
The Observer IS a member of the 

Associated Press All reproduction 
nghts are reserved 
I FOR RENT J 
FURNISHED 1 AND 3 BED ROOM APTS. ~ BEDROOM HOUSE. 234-2626 
2-story frame, 7 rooms, 1-1/2 baths, basement. 1212 E. Mad­ison St., $3~0 mo. Call Lois Varga, 2~~-7244. 
Furnished apt., ~03 1/2 W. Jefferson, Duplex, 3 rooms, 2nd floor, gas heat, furnished, 289-6307' 234-0~96 
STIJDENT RENTAL ONLY: 6 bdrm house, fully carpeted wI Sky Parlor. CALL 272-7767 or 
232-40~7 

Female housemates wanted for 
91) Corby. Call 287-4008 
STIJDENT rentals near ND. On busline. Private entrance. Newly remodeled, fully fur. nished. 1 bedroom. $1 n & up. Also efficiency apts. $11~ & up. 2~~-8~0~ or 2~9-4629 
8 blocks to ND. Rooms for 3 more students. $~00 semester · & share of utilities. Call 288­
3942 from ~-9 p.m. 

Student housing. U niver­sity rated superior. Complete facilities. Clean & safe. Call 291-140~ after Sept. 1 
One or two male housemates needed. Call232-6344 for infor­mation early or late. 

Now taking applications for part & full time cocktail wait­resses. Apply in person, 2-~ 
p.m. Captain Alexander's Moonraker. Come to the side door before 4:30, ask for Pam. 
Wanted: Many LSU GA-tix! Will pay megabucks. Call Pat at 1942. 
Marure student needed to 
share living quarters. All the 
comforts of home and more. 
$1 ~0 per month total for cable 
tv, laundry, kitchen, stereo and 
more. 9 month or 1 yr. lease. 
!100 deposit. 289-0103 
wanted: roommate. nice house. nice neighborhood. $12o-mo. includes utilities. 283·2920 or 
289-394~ 
I need two GA tix for USC! ! ! I will pay megabucks! ! ! Please call Beth at 283-4236 
Need a ride for two to Sprins.· steen con., 9·8 in Chi. Wdl 
•share expenses. Bob 8173 
WANTED: Drummer for Rock­Dance Band. Call Tom .at 1470 
---]
[ r.!)R SALE 
Must sell: double loft & 14' bar. Very nice, very reason­able. Call Tim 8923 
All, ld!.'-oiltPr1 ,HI'* tl n!.l he ri!Celvf:t1 hV 4 45 f.l rtl IWO tlays j:'lriOt tO the 
•'!.!<out! ,, wflu 11 '"'' .r I ,., run The Observer ott1ce wdl ftCtept c1ass•11eds MnllCI,t\ riHOIIIJh Ftl•lrtv 111 nn ,I IT IU 4 45 p m All r.folSSiflcd:. musr be Pfi'·Ptllrl ro11hrr HI f!l'f'i(ll' or !tlrutJfJ11 tllf! rn,lti 
Attention Off-campus resi­

TICKETS dents: 0-C Happy Hour Mon­
day night 9-12 p.m. at Irish 
Country, 744 Notre Dame Ave. 

Wanted: 2 LSU tickets. Pleas( 
Pitcher $2, 3 drafts $1 

call Giselle at 674-6600 Off-Campus Happy Hour Moo­Need LSU Student & GA's day night at Irish Country, 9-12 Call Jack 1173 p.m. 
Wanted 2 GA LSU tix. Call Desperately needed: A sincere, 233-8764 nice looking, Latin -senorita for 
friendship and possible roman­Need 2 GA LSU tix Call Shirley tic relat10nship. I am a tall at 171 ~ before ~ weekdays. dashing Californian. I am fun-
loving and enjoy outdoor Have 2 tix for LSU, Fla. State, action. Bridge players & picky So. Cal games. Desire to trade e~ters ··don't apply. Must be for Penn State Tix. Call collect, wtlhng to relocate to the West 
212-H2-4747 Coast. Tom the Grad Chemist 
1 Need two GA tix for USC and Kell):' Tripuc~a doesn't want to will pa anything!!! Call Beth p~ay tn Detrott ... S~ ~ho needs 
at 423g;! htm anyway? Detr~lt ts a great 
town and doesn t welcome Need two LSU GAs Will pay. riffra.f:!' like that big _gook.
8~ 84 Storh s beer, the Ttgers, 
Greektown, Ted Nugent, etc., Need 4 GA 2 student LSU tix. it all adds up. A face like his Pay$$$. Call Ted 8424 might do irreparable damage
to a real decent town. Get lost Need 4 GA amd 1 student Kelly! Friends of Motown ... ticket for LSU. Will pay top $. G.A. is alive and well. Old 
Call 3676 Members and new peoples come see us at Activities Nt~ht Needed: 2 GAs for LSU to or call 2838 for Dan or Kevm appease irate father. CalJ Scott 
It's not my fault! I wor,l't fail1222 

you! Expect perfection, but WANTED: 4 GA tix for LSU remember metal is fallible and game. Call Cheri at 81~8 people are fun':'~· I'm >sorry:
tt's hot, and 1t s late,· and 
memory boards are failing 
everywhere, you know. Some

[}ERSONALS] 
like it hot. Ah, Marilyn, if 
....

Abiogenesis Dance Collective only. . . But those days are 
At Activities Night gone. , 

The Observer 'Monday, August 31, 1981 -page 6 
• • .Specialists 
contimJed from page 8 
especially outstanding. 

Kid, who averaged 40.1 yards on 66 punts last years returns with solid back8up help from senior walk-on Brian Whelan. 
''Blair is an excellent punter with good hang-time," com­
--
ments Boulca. "He'd be tough to beat out on any campus, and being a quarterback he's a mulu-threat back there. Brian's been punting well, too, and with more consistency than he did in the spring." Back of course for kicking field goals and extra points is the left leg of Harry 0. who converted 18-of-23 field goals last year, and who was named by nationally know magazines Street & Smith's' and Athlon's as the 1981 pre-season all­America kicker. Right now, however, Oliver is recovering from a leg injury he sustained over the summer which he says should be completely healed by early this week. Ironically, the 'aspect of Oliver's game that needed the most work over the summer was the "chip shot" kicks. He .missed four of his 23 attempted extra points, and three of his field foal misses were from 26, 20 and 19 yards. "It was the same old thing on · the extra/oints," he laments. "I wante to see the ball go through th uprights and I pulled my head up too soon. On longer field goals, I would have time to watch the vall after I kicked it. I worked real hard on concentrat­ing on extra points this year because it's the little things like 
that that can become important 
in a game. 

"I've also worked hard on 
increasing height on my kicks 
since I had three blocked last 
year (two inside 26 yards)." 
"Going into last year, people 
didn't know what to expect 
from me. This year they do, and 
I just want to do the vest I can 
do to live up to their expecta­
tions.'' 

Junior walk-on Mike John­
ston will press hard for Oliver's 
position. Johnston had an im­
pressive enough spring in 1980 
to return as the number-one 
kicker last.fall, but l<?st that spot 
when Ohver obv10usly 1m~ 
proved over the summer. 
"Mike has come back this 
fall, with a much stronger leg 
than he's ever had, and he's 
kickin~ with more consis­
tency,' says Boulac. 
"I would not be afraid to use 
Mike at all ifthe situation called 
for it.'' (Which is exactly what 
Gerry Faust said after Johnston 
kicked a 47-yard field goal in 
Saturday's scrimmage.) 
One great advantage for the 
kickers is the return of holder 
Dave Condeni and backup Tim 
Koegel who held for Oliver in 
the first two games last year 
before being injured. 
"They're both really some­thing," praises Oliver. "They have great hands, get the ball down fast, and of all the time I kicked last year, I can't remem­ber once when the strings of the ball were facing me." 
Snapping the ball for the kickers and punters will be a battle between senior Ron Mishler and freshman Kevin 
J(elly_(s~n of linebacker co~ch 
George Kelly). 
Kicking off will be a battle between Johnston and safety STeve Cichy. · 
Boulac describes Dave Duer­son and John Krimm ''solid'' as punt return specialists after working together for the most part last year. Duerson has paced the squad in punt returns the past two seasons including a 17.4-yard return average his 
See ROLE, page 5 
• • .Irish 
continued from page 8 
Oliver, opened a few eyes with 
his 47-yard field goal. 
The fresl1men got a chance 
to strut their stuff, too, as 
quarterback Ken Karcher dir­
ected a touchdown drive on a 
pass to Mike Richerson, with 
Chris Smith taking it over from 
the one. 
"We got out of the scrim­
mage what we wanted to," 
said Faust. ''Everyone played. 
We got every one of the 
players in, and that was impor­
tant." 
IRISH ITEMS--The casualty list from Saturday's session is small ...most of the injured will miss only a day or two ... Junior linebacker Mark 'Zavagnin (sprained ankle) and senior cornerback Mike Masini ·(bruised ankle) should return 
within a few days, but senior 
wingback Tim Tripp may be 
out longer with a badly twisted 
right knee, now in a cast. 


Wingback Tony" Hunter, who played for Coach Gerry Faust at Moeller High School, races aroundleft endwith one ofhis six cames. Freshman defensive lineman jay Underwood is in pursuit. (Photo by Carrie Koplin] _ 
n.d. center for experiential learning 


1982 
SEMESTER PROGRAMS in MEXICO 
PRO(';RA~I IN r.tOBAL COt\HL:NITY 
SprtnKS,.,.cstl'r, 
UNIVERSIDAD 18FkOIIHERICA~A Hrxico Cit'' Sprlnr.S•·IIK'•Itf'r 
"' 
F11Jl~t'"h·r 
IHFOilHATION AT ACTIVITIES I•!JGHT * • • 1•r * * •· r.111 Hania Lt'~lu 28l-.Ull8 JIIO•Ir1110rlal Library rf'nt..r rnr r.xJ'.. rl.•.nttllli.••.:Jrrtlnl! 

\ 


·--------------------------------------------------------------------· 
8·5 Mon.·Sat. 

219·283·4395
Badin Hall 
Notre Dame, IN 46556

University of Notre Dame (Evenings by Appointment) 


UNIVERSITY HAIR STYLISTS 
FULL SERVICE UNISEX CENTER 
HAIR CUTTING SPECIALISTS--------......_.. 
Our master stylists have the up·to·date and eonventional styles lor the men and women of the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's eampuses. 
Let us take eare of all your hair eare needs. 
We also have a full line of retail hair products and are located on campus for your convenience. 



·--------------------------------------------------------------------· 
illllllllllllll!l! I !ii!UIIil!lllill I lllllllllllllllliillll 1111111! I! I lllllilili! l!l!llllll!lllili I II liB
.... 



.' 



Ihe__~Clbserver,== 
~c:)cJlC3L~======================~M=o=nd=~='=A=u=gu=s=t3=1=,=19=8=1=-=pa=g=e~7
Molarity 


The Daily Crossword 

All Rights Reserved 

c• • • • • • • 
• 

Newcomers Welcome 
OBSERVER SPORTS STAFF • meeting (for those who missed last Tuesday's only) tomorrow at 6 p.m. in the Observer office. 
=;
~[ • • • • 1 a v • I a • • • 



Michael Molinelli 
Garry Trudeau-. 


Campus 
3:30 p.m. -· practice, ultimate frisbee club, memorial library field, newcomers welcome. 
7 p.m. -· organizational meeting, nd pre-law society, assistant dean waddick dean lind, prof thomas marullo, library aui 
7 p.m. activities night, stepan center. 
7:30 p.m. ·· ftlm "day for night " 
annenburg aud., snite museum of an. ' 7 p.m. ·· activities night, stephan center. 

... 
50 Open pie 52 Treasure 56 NYcong· 
ressman 57 Intellect 59 Before 60 Show 61 Period 62 Itch 63 Tristram's 
creator 64 Hoi polloi 
DOWN 1 Heroic 
narrative 2 Bouquet 3 Distribute 4 Vigoda 5 Juarez or 
Mussollni 6 Cowsheds 7 Burden 8 Canopy for 
a wagon 9 Escort 10 Islamic leader 11 Place of origin 12 Certain burner 17 Lawyer Clarence 18 Greensward in Paris 21 Well-worn way 23 Nonsense! 

24 Laborer 25 Estop 26 Fruit drink 27 Free 28 "The Way of 
All-" 29 Jacob's 
wife 31 Auricular 33 Lupino and 
namesakes 34 Let fall 35 Deprived 36 Bandleader 
Brown 
37 Close encounter craft 
38 Curve 41 Shirt front 42 Stick 43 Navy petty 
officers 44 Crab 45 Hoary 46 Oz person 48 Onewho 
spends 50 Stew 51 Wash 53 Article 54 Peter at 
the piano 55 Dull 57 Dozens of 
dozens: abbr. 58 Beverage 
I a
• • -:1 

ACROSS 1 Turf 4 Monastery 
superiors 10 300 13 Hubbub 14 Schoolboy 
cap 15 Have being 16 Guiding 
principle 18 Intent 19 Zone 20 Establish· 
ment:abbr. 21 Busts 22 Statements: 
abbr. 24 "Riders of the-Sage" 25 Spanish quarter 28 Christian or Knebel 30 So long, 
Juan 31 Margarine 32 Flying 
colors 39 Plate 40 Shoals 41 Railway 
car 46 Certain 
sculptures 47 Standards 48 Hookah 49 Group of 
notes 
• 
... 


Monday, August 31, 1981 -page 8 
First scrimmage 

Quarterbacks on display 
By KEUY SUUIVAN teamed up earlier in that series between a pair of defenders. ... Sports Writer on a 35-yard strike that Hunter "We've got to work on some couldn't hold onto, but safety depth at the wingback position, 
Steve Cichy was called for
There's a lot of work to be but Greg Williamson really done between now and Sept. interference on the play. impressed me," Faust noted. 
"This was the first time I've 
12, but Notre Dame football Depth is certamly no prob­coach Gerry Faust made head­played win~back in a game-like lem in the backfield. "Were at way on his biggest chore: situation, ' related Hunter, least three deep at tailback.'' fmding a quarterback to start who missed all of spring prac­said Faust. Bell finished with 
tice nursing an ankle injury, 55 yards on 12 carries, andthe home opener now less than '•AND I felt the new offense
two weeks away. ] ohn Mosley added 27 on 
ran really well.'' Constantly in
The Irish held their fttst seven attempts. But senior 
motion, the 6-5, 220-pound
full-scale scrimmage of the fall Bernie Adell made some nice 
Saturday on Cartier Field and junior did it all Saturday cuts and fought his way for 59
-­Faust made sure he got a Bood running (six carries for 31 yards in 13 tries (scoring from 
look at what his four stgnal yards), receiving and blocking. the two) to lead all rushers. "I loved being so involved,"
callers -· Blair Kiel, Tim the fullback slot isn't worry­
he admitted. 

Koegel, Scott Grooms and Ken ing Faust, either. ''We're very
The timing between Hunter
Karcher could do. deep at that position, also,'' he
and Koegel, former teammates
"We went on the basis of continued. "We've got three
at Moeller, has come along
having to find someone to run 0ohn Sweeney, Larry Moriarty 
nicely. "We worked together
the first team in pratice this and Mark Brooks) who can
all sunlm.er, so we know one
week," he explained, "so play." Moriarty may have the
another's moves better than
today we did a lot of things for edge based on Saturday's ef­
ever. That's primarily what the 
the quarterbacks." forts. He bulldozed his way to
passing game is all about,"
Faust isn't saying who'll get 3 7 yards on nine carries.
added Hunter, who also snared 
the nodJ'ust yet. "The coaches The defense continued to 
a pass from holder Dave
and I w' I have to sit down and perform well. Faust was partic­
Condeni, another Moeller
look at the films to make : ularly impressed with line­
a~um, for a two-point conver­
certain. I have a good idea, · backer Bob Crable's play,
sion.

though.'' though the senior co-captam
Koegel engineered the sec­
All four shuffled in and out wasn't as pleased.
ond of the afternoon's four
of the lineup with the fttst, "On the whole, the scrim­
second and third units, but it scores the very next series, mage went well, but there's a
finding split end Mike Boushka 
was Koegel who drove the new lot of room for improvement,"
in the end zone on a five-yard
Irish offense full throttle. Crable explained. • 'The pass
toss. The senior receiver is
The fifth-year senior wasted rush was there, but it wasn't
picking up on last year's sensa­
no time during his stint with tremendous, and there were a
tional spring performance,
the number one team, direting as lot of missed tackles. I know I
he danced the sidelines and
a 12-play scoring drive in made a lot of mistakes I
made diving stretches to earn
which he was four-of-six pass­shouldn't have. 
his statistics •· four receptions
in~ for 83 yards. Kicker Mike Johnston, sub­
(including a 42-yarder) for 87
'I was pleased with all the stituting for an injured Harry
yards.

quarterbacks, but Koegel did a 
good job of leading them down Koegel had some trouble See IRJSH, page 6 
going up against the fttstthe field on that series, " noted defense, and ended the dayFaust. 
Wingback Tony Hunter 5-for-13 for 91 yards. The front Game winners four gave Kiel (two-of-eight for .
crossed the goalbne on a 16 yards) all he could handleseven-yard run around left early in the scrimmage, but the end. The drive was hiBhlighted 
Specialists play important role
sophomore settled down andby some fine runrung from set up a score on passes totailback Greg Bell (ftlling in for 
an injured Phil Carter), and a Boushka and walk-on Greg By LOUIS SOMOGYI ible losses to four teams (Mich­upset brewing as the 'Cats Williamson, the latter hangif1g Sports Writer igan, Michigan State Miami stack the line for a blocked kick
20-yard connection from 
on to the ball while sandwiched and Georgia Tech), but it is or good field position possibility Koegel to Hunter. The two 
An exciting new diversified often overlooked that when one with only 2:08 remaimng till the offense. --or even both -· units start to half. But while the Aizona A depth-laden talented de­sputter, it many times is up to players go this-a-way towards fense. the specialty teams to light the Kiel, Kiel goes that-a-way forFive returnees .foin A lovable coach with a 27· fire under the team and break an 80-yard touchdown scamper hour workday (says Sports IL­the game open in just a short on a play that only he and Dan lustrated]. span of time. Witness three Devine knew was ~oing to be What more can a team ask? consecutive games from last run. On the ensumg kickoff, Well, to win a national cham­year: -Larry Moriarry nails the Ariz­pionship, a team need an extra Notre Dame-Miami. The ona 10-yard-hne which helps "special" effort. scoreboard reads 0-0 with 1 :37 set up an Oliver field goal as By DONNA WITZLEBEN made th 1981-82 team are ''Football is composed of left before halftime against the time runs out for the half with Sports Wn'ter seniors Carol Shkis (LaGrange, three units,'' sasys Assistant unbeaten and nationall-ranked the Irish up 17-3. Any smell of a 
1981-82 tennis squad 
Ill.), Tina Stephan (,barrington, Head Coach Brian Boulac, who Hurricanes. Quickly, a 21-yard Wildcat upset stinks. Ill), and Peggy Walsh (Mid­triples as coordinator of recruit­punt return by Dave Duerson "We hit every phase of the 
The rain-delayed tryout land, Mich.), junior Linda Hoy­ing, assistant for the defensive leads to a short 29-yard touch­specialty teams during two-a­tournament for Notre Dame's er (Port Clinton, Ohio), and line and special teams coach. down drive. On the ensuing days," says Boulac. "We'll women's tennis team came to a sophomore Pam Fishette (Liv­"There's you offense, defense kickoff, the Notre Dame cover­spend a block of time now close this weekend, and Coach erpool, N.Y.). The five fresh­and special teams. If two teams age teanl swarms on Miami's everyday on a facet-offensive Sharon Petro was able to name men are: Camile Cooper are evenly matched, or if a team return-man leading to a fumble and defensive --for the teams 
her 1981-82 team yesterday (Shreveport, La.), Lisa Gleason gets close in a game, the recovered by Rick Naylor. Re­and then we'll review every­afternoon. (Oakbrook, Ill.), Lisa LaFratta specialty teams will be very sult: A more comfortable 10-0 thing on Thursday. 
Petro's fourth Irish con­(Richmond, Va.), Laura Lee instrumental in determining the halftime lead, and a lot of wind "It's not a lackluster oper­tingent will feature several new (Agorua, Calif.) and Cathy outcome of the game.'' knocked from the Hurricanes. ation," he continues. "You faces. Of the ten players on. the Schnell (Ballwin, Mo.). Playing six bowl teams from Notre Dame-Army. Notre have to work hard at it and find team, only five return from her Senior Mary Legeay, The 1980, a seventh that would have Dame fans and bookmakers are the right people. A lot of 1980-81 squad. Observer's 1980·81 Female been had it not been for Pac 10 sli~htly put off by a lacka· players take pride in playinB 
"I was hoping to finish the Athlete of the Year, will not probation, USC, and opening datsical 10-0 lead the Irish have with the specialty teams since It tryouts earlier, but with the play this season because of against a potentially dangerous with only 35 seconds left before may be their only opportunity to rain, the final cuts couldn't ,be summe~ surgery on her hand. LSU squad (a top-20 team iq. intermission. Suddenly, John make key contributions in a made until today,'' she said many publications), the 1981 Krimm breaks through the game. People like Jon Autry
The 1980-81 Irish compiled a
yesterday. Fighting Irish certainly won't Army line and rams an at­and Rick Naylor who were
20-6 record and qualified for the 
The tryouts started last Tues­be carrying picnic baskets when tempted punt into the Cadet freshmen last year might not
Division II Nauonals held in
day with a total of 26 new they enter through staduim endzone where Mark Zavagnin have lettered had they not been 
Detroit last spring. The Irish,
prospects and veterans from tunnels this season. It is in pounces on the ball to give the on the seciality units." last year's squad competing in with no partial athletic schol­these tight matchups where the Irish a • • that's more like it'' Overall, Boulac says that he
arships, which Division II al­
a double-elimination, round­special teams may very well 17-0 halftime lead. has been pleased with the 
robin tournament. Petro, re­lows, placed 20th in a field of 30 make the difference between ~ Notre Dame-Arizona. Blair progress made by the units this 
in Detroit. 

turning for her fourth tennis win and a loss. Kiel stands back on his own five year although game conditions
The Irish now will settle
season, started her tryouts with To many Notre Dame fans, yard-line to punt against the 1s what really will spell out
down into a regular practice
clean slates for everyone so as the specialty teams for the Irish ftted-up Wildcats who cut the performance. The kicking
... 
to five all participants a fair schedule to get ready for their constst of two words: Harry Irish lead to 7-3 on their game, though, may be shor at making the team. season opener Sept. 5 at Oliver. Granted, field goals by previous possession. The ARiz­Returning veterans who Illinois-Chicago Circle. Oliver last year prevented poss-ona fans and players smell the See SPECIAllSI'S, page 6 



