• • • Superbowl -page 12 

77 
VOL XV, NO. 72" MONDAY,JANUARY 26,1981 
an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and saint mary's 
Home to America 
Ex-hostages, families reunite 
WEST POINT, N.Y. (AP) -The Room at the White House to send There was a somber moment, ~2 hostages came home yesterday, them off to the reunion. though, when the motorcade carry­home to a sun-splashed welcome, It was an emotional moment; he ing the hostages and their families 
home to a nation's love. Home to choked up. twisted through the hills to West America. Tears in his eyes, the new presi· 
Point. It passed eight flagpoles flying A presidential military jet called dent said, "Since we all didn't get to American flags at half staff, in "Freedom One" carried the former church this morning because of this memory of eight servicemen killed prisoners of Iran to a hillside airport (ceremony), can we just say, Dear in a failed rescue attempt last April. and the private embrace of their God, thank You. Thank You for what As the hostages passed through familil's. You've done. And God give you the the village of Highland Falls, a understanding and the patience that church bell pealed 444 times, once
Then -together at last -the you'll need now with regard to this 
for each day in captivity. Finally the

hostages and their relatives rode at homecoming and get-together. hostages' long trip was overand they
du1ok through cheering, waving Amen." 
poured into the Hotel Thayer where

crowds lining Hudson Valley roads A great national welcoming, led the assistant manager, Lee Curtis, of· 
to a wild hello at the gates of the lJ.S. 
by Reagan, is scheduled for Was­
fered them iced shrimp, chips, dips,

Military Academy at West Point, hington tomorrow -a week after hors d'oeurves and drinks, and left
where they have been promised two the hostages' release after 14 them on their own.
days of privacy. 
months in captivity. 
When the plane landed at Stewart 

President Reagan stayed at the It was a homecoming not unlike Airport at Newburgh, N.Y., the first White !louse to give the hostages the. homecoming the nation saw hostage off, a Marine, kissed and their families what they most when prisoners of war flew home 
American ground. wanted: the.-l'hance to talk to each from North Vietnam in 1973. For the Eight more Marines followed, other, alone. hoMages, the trip started early yes­crisp in fresh uniforms, and each Reagan met with the families yes­terday at the Rhein-Main Air Base in 
saluted America as he stood in the terday morning in the State Dining West Germany. 
plane doorway. 
Then came the diplomats who had been caught in the U.S. embassy when it was seized by Iranian militants on Nov. 4, 1979. A few of

SMC student distributes 
them had to be helped down the stairs ofthe ramp. The hostages' families flooded the

petitions for captive aunt 
tarmac. "Thank God!" they cried. "God 

bless America!" By MARY AGNES CAREY release. Children grabbed onto their fat­StaffReporter "We've all been worrying about hers' legs. The fathers lifted them in­
the treatment she's been receiving," to the air and cried. Kinti>lk fell onto 

The 'i2 American hostages were Ms. Dwyer said, "We've worried each other, hugging, crying, kissing reunited with their families yester· about her since the day she left." The and laughing. day. Today, however, efforts to student is circulating petitions in an secure the release ofCynthia Dwyer, effort to obtain l 00,000 signatures another American still captive in to urge President Reagan "to secure 
Summer employment program 
Iran, continue. the safe and early release" of her 
Mrs. Dwyer ·is a free-lance aunt. jounallst being imprisoned at Evin The petition movement, which Prison in Tehran on allegations that began with The Buffalo Evening 
Alumni Board discusses _plans 
she Is a CIA agent. News and WKBW-TV in Buffalo, is 
According to Colleen Dwyer, a now geared towards western parts freshman at Saint Mary's College and of the state, but family members are ByJOHN HIGGINS Halls, Board members William contact their local clubs to find out If relative of the hostage. her aunt left attempting make other citizens StaffReporter Reynolds ('54), and Paul Kruse they were placed in a job. for Tehran from New York last April. aware of Mrs. Dwyer's captivity. ('52), announced the Alumni As­The pair also listened to students' 
Mrs. Dwyer went to Iran as an in­Ms. Dwyer has posted petitions in Members of the Notre Dame sociation's new summer employ­comments about about the use of dependent reporter hoping to sell several residence halls at Saint Alumni Board met with students last ment placement program. Kruse funds from the Unverslty's ongoing articles upon her return to the Thursday night in dormitories said the program is a coordinated ef. fund-raising drive, the Campaign for
Mary's and has also distributed some across campus. fort between the Alumni Association
United States. However, she became of the petitions to Notre Dame stu· Notre Dame and plans for improve­worried during her stay in Tehran dents. The Board's objectives were and the local Alumni clubs to ment ofcampus social f.lcllltles. and made a telephone call to The Mr. Dwyer spoke to the State twofold -to become more familiar provide Notre Dame students with Reynolds said that less than S~O Buffalo Even in[( News in which she Department last Thursday and with campus problems and increase summer jobs. million of the Sl86 million "raised" claimed to have Information that stated, "there's nothing new to student awareness of the Alumni As­"We want to help in job place­had actually been received by the could free several hostages. sociation. ment as best we can," Kruse said. · University while the remainder of The journalist was"rrested May 5, At a meeting attended by 30 resi­"Obviously we can't guarantee the the funds had only been pledged by
See AUNT, page 3 

shortly after an April .l4 rescue at· dents of Grace and Pasquerilla West jobs, but depending on the amount donors. "The new dormitories, tempt failed. of effort from the local clubs, we Stepan Chemistry Building and the Ms. Dwyer said she believed both should be able to place many stu· University endowment are all events led to her aunt's arrest. The dents in summer jobs." projects funded by the Campaign," Saint Mary's student, who describes Kruse and Reynolds distributed he said. her aunt as a "pro-mankind (person) 
forms for students interested in Reynolds stressed the importance who's done nothing to hurt any obtaining summer jobs through the ofthe endowment to the University. Iranians," said she hoped Mrs. program. Kruse directed students to "(University President Fr. 
Dwyer would accompany the fill out the forms and submit them to Theodore) Hesburgh has found a the Alumni Office. "The infomation one-to-one relationship between

recently released 'iZ American hostages, hut "didn't know if she'd in the forms will then be given to the the size of the endowment and the 
he on that plane or not." 
local club where the student wants quality of education provided by a to work," Kruse said. "It's up to them • university," he said. "The endow­

Mrs. Dwyer's husband, John (a to get the information out to their
Notre Dame alumnus), and children ment is Invested and used to fund Suzanna, 9, Dan, 12, and Ben. 14, members in order to place stu­special teaching chairs to attract 
have rt·ccived three letters from the dents." high-quality outside or existing Additional forms will also be faculty.
journalist in which she tells her fami­available in the Alumni Office. "The endowment currently
ly: "I pray to c;od every day ti>r you not to worry about me." "We don't expect immediate stands at approximately S200 mil­On Christmas, an Iranian cler­success with the program," Kruse lion," Reynolds continued. "In con­gyman and a United States State commented, "but if we get the ball trast, Harvard's has Sl.'5 billion and Department official visited Mrs. 
rolling now, we should be able to Yale over S'500 million. The endow-place quite a number ofstudents."

Dwyer at the prison. Reynolds emphasized that it is the
The State Departmnt continues to responsibility student See ALUMNI, page 3
work with Swiss Diplomats serving of each to as intermediaries for Mrs. Dwyer's 





l\TetlJScl)==t:=~=·e~~~S========~=================M=o=n=da=y=,J=a=nu=a=ry=2=6=,=19=8=1=-=P=ag=e~2 
by The Oh1erver and The A11ociated PreJJ Robbed at knifepoint, a Notre Dame graduat~' 
staying at Motel Six on US 31 North this past weekend was stripped of S500 worth ofvaluables including his 1980 class ring. The victim was leaving his room, located toward the back ofthe motel, when he was threatened by a large man with a long knife. The assailant forced the victim to lie face down on his bed, bound and gagged him with a sheet and proceeded to loot his luggage. The assailant was later joined by a second accomplice and after both men had left the victim freed him­self and called Saint Joseph County police. Under questioning, the manager of Motel Six admitted that break-ins and losses of keys are frequent, and commented that it would be too expensive to replace locks every time an Incident occurred. Police ask students to find other places besides Motel Six to hold pre-formal parties. -Tbe Ob­
server 
Shot in the head by Irish Republican Army guerrillas, a British soldier died In a Belfast Hospital yesterday after an all-night struggle for his life. A left-wing claimed responsibility for Saturday's attack by three gunmen who presented themselves for a body search at a security gate in downtown Belfast, then fired several shots and disappeared into a crowd of shoppers. A British Army spokesman identified the slain oldier as Cpl. Phillip Barker, 25, on tour here from his base with the British Army of the Rhine in West Germany. Sur­geons at the Royal Victoria Hospital fought through the night to save Barker, a member ofthe Royal Regiment ofFusiliers, who had been on reutine search duty with two women from the Women's Royal Army Corps. He was the 2,077th person to die in nearly 10 years ofsectarian feuding in Northern Ireland The "Provos," the terrorist wing of the IRA, have claimed killing a British soldier, a militia major and two leading Protestant politicians in the last week in a new spate of sec­tarian violence. -AP 
A helicopter hovered over the roof of a federal detention center yesterday. The pilot of the craft was was forced at gunpoint to lower his craft over the building while his passenger un­successfully tried to drop weapons to inmates below, authorities said. Inmates briefly took a guard hostage on the roof. The inmates, waving a white flag, surrendered several hours later, leaving the roof of the federal Metrpolltan Correctional Center one by one to be searched. The guard was released unharmed. It was not known who the helicop­ter's hijackers were trying to free, but it was learned police were checking into the possibility that Croatian nationalists may have been behind the plot. The hijackers fled after forcing the helicopter to land at a heliport. Anthony Amanzio, general manager of Island Helicop­ters, said the helicopter had been chartered under the name of "Sanchez." When two men and a woman, who arranged for the char­ter, arrived at New Jersey's Teterboro Airport they told the pilot where they wanted to go. "They offered him a sum of money...he im­mediately turned down the request," Amanzio said. "Then they placed a sawed-off shotgun to his head and told him it no longer was a re­quest, but a demand." The helicopter hovered for about five minutes over the roofofthe detention center as the hijackers lowered a metal ladder and tried unsuccessfully to cut through a metal grating to drop weapons to prisoners to recreation room below, authorities said. ­
AP 
ItWOUld have meant death. So stated University 
president Fr. Theodore Hesburgh in yesterday's Cbtcago Tribune in answer to a question concerning American military options throug­hout the hostage plight. Fr. Hesburgh continued to say that "our country is no longer in a position to rule the world by flat as it was at the end of World War 11, only 35 years ago. A scruffy, disorganized, second-rate nation kidnaps 52 of our official citizens, and we are unable to force or persuade the scoundrels to return them." The 62­year old university president further emphasized that anything we could envision doing militarily could well have meant the death ofthe hostages, a Middle Eastern war involving the superpowers and the closing of the Strait or Hormuz with consequent strangulation of European and American industry. The lesson learned is that every­thing international and domestic is linked to everything else, and that some very basic problems are not amenable to solution by the uni­lateral u :e ofpower, no matter how great. -Tbe Observer 
Patriotic T-shirts were Dr. Robert Angerman's con­tribution to the hostage cause, a reminder of the land of the free, which, in turn, became a uniform to the American hostages during their days in Iran. Dr. Robert Angerman, who says he feels like he freed hostages arc part of his family, will be among those who greet them in Washington this 'week. "These people mean a lot to me. They've become a family, even though I've never met them. I have so much to ask them," says Angerman, who received his invitation to participate in the homecoming from Sen. Richard Lugar, R-Ind. Angerman's silk­screened T-shirts feature the word "America squeezed to look like a mountain with an eagle's head rising above it. He designed them four years ago, "at the time many would have looked upon such a design as square," Angerman said Friday. But the resurgence of patriotism that came with the hostage crisis also brought a surge in orders for what he calls his "freedom shirt." As many as 7,000 already have been purchased at $6 each and Angerman says "we're getting about 100 pieces ofmail a day now.' -AP 
A showdown is loomingt>etween Iocat groups on opposite sides of the abortion issue, in anticipation of a battle in Congress over proposed Human Life Amendments, organizers say. Both the National Organization for Women in Evansville and the Right to life organization in neighboring Warwick County, Ind. are advertis­ing in local newspapers seeking support for their respective points of view. At issue is upcoming legislation aimed at outlawing abortions. "We're concerned people are ambivalent and don't realize the awesome implications of this legislation, which sounds so innocent," said Deborah Burdick, coordinator for NOW's local Reproductive Rights Task Force. -AP 
Sunny and warm. with high in the upper 40s. Low tonight in the upper 30s with,temperatures dipping into the lower 20s tomorrow. -AP 

What's wrong with apathy? 
One ofthe loudest complaints amongpeople who are "actively involved" in anything, is how apathetic everyone else is who is not involved. In college we hear this complaint frequently -no one supports this issue; no one becomesconcerned with that project;everyone complains about everything, but, "who the hell cares?" In the political and social world, this complaint carries on as everyone tries to gain support for some cause, issue or belief. 


The gripe ofthe "activists" against apathy Is really not legitimate. Granted, we are all very loud to complain, terested and involved in the areas that most closely energetic to disagree and 'lazy' to take action, but touch our lives. With so many causes, issues, rights, sometimes we have no other choice. We do not have problems, and questions in the world, there is absolute­
the time, we have our own personal interests, and often ly no way anyone could get involved and be active in 
we're simply just afraid to get involved. everything. Our brains probably have the capacity to Fear in this case is not necessarily a result of not absorb knowledge on every aspect of human life, but caring. We become afraid when we are uncertain about we probably would need a life span of several millenia what we are doing or what we might be getting in­and then live several more millenia to be able to get volved in, and is the result of insufficient knowledge. involved in everything. Since that is not really possible, Not having enough information or understanding of a we are limited in what we can know and then, in what 
situation could make an action more harmful than help­we have the time to accomplish within our lives as we ful. For instance: the people who stand around when an live them. accident has occurred -those who know how to give We are all apathetic to the rest of life that goes 
CPR or any emergency care will jump forward im­beyond what we experience.It's not a matter ofapathy mediately and give aid, being wrong because a per­while those who don't know 
son isn't involved in an issue anything about handling an since that judgement is a 
emergency will stand back. personal opinion. Apathy is What ifno one in the crowd no excuse for ignorance knows anything about han­
when knowledge is within dling an emergency -of course they will all hold 
IQW..Y < r j_ '~ ~:~sh:;;s;.ca!~:. ~~ :i~0=­
back and wait for someone 
\ ~-ways be in their personal in­else to go forward because -~ .-~::-~-~ terest to make sure more they know they don't know · --~ 
Af'AIHY 
-=::._..1.. 

people become concerned. anything and the immediate Knowing that, we really reaction will be fear of mis-don't have to be worried handlng the situation about apathy destroying our 
Personal experience in­society, for someone will al· fluences the knowledge we ways care about something. acquire about our world. 
When a person experiences in life are narrowly limited, he has little need ordesire to learn anything further, espe­cially if life is fulfllled from within that area. One who remains unsatisfied with being limited in any way must 

Observer Notes-­
continually seek knowledge by increasing their ex­periences of life. Both lives can be fulfllling to an ih­dividual, the fact that to each, the other's life may seem 

As a public service, The Observer publishes short
empty. 

press releases, better known as blurbs, submitted
An interesting illustration to this -from Tolkien's 

by campus and local organizations. All blurbs must
Lord oftbe Rings -is the attitude of the Hobbits in the 

be turned in no later than 1 p.m. ofthe afternoon
Shire to Gandalf and Aragorn and their fight to keep the 

prior to publication, and they must be typed,
power of the Ring from the hands ofSauron. The Hob­double-spaced, or they will not be accepted
bits were content and fulfilled in their lives having no knowledge -yet needing none -ofthe Ring. Gandalf and Aragorn could never have been content until they 

Blurbs, unfortunately, are not guaranteed
had destroyed the Ring, for they knew its Power. It was 
their personal interest to destroy the Ring, and it was 

publication, and are run only on a space available, the Hobbits' personal interest to continue eating four 
priority system as designated by the news editors meals a day and give presents to each other without 
We remind that The Ob1erver alone should not bt ever knowing that their world narrowly missed coming 
relied upon to publicize events-to ensure some to an end. 
mention ofyour event, submit a separate entry to Every individual has their own outlook of what is 
the On Campus Today section of the paper. necessary and important to their lives. We become in­
f-The_QbsetYPf' 
PEACE CORPS 
Design Editor ..................... Margaret Kruse Design Assistants ................ Monica Gugle 
Elizabeth Clay Systems Control ....................Tim Debell us Typesetter ............................... Bruce Oakley News Editor ............................. Pam Degnan Copy Editor .......................... Dave Dziedzic 



A HEALTHY
Ad Design ........................ Woody and Mary Pbotograpber............................John Macor 

CHOICE. 

Be choosy. Become a Peace Corps nurse. Help people in developing countries to organize clinics, village health The Observer (USPS 598 920) is 
teams. and vaccination programs. You could make a
published Monday through Friday 

difference in one of over 60 countries where health care
except during exam and vacation 
periods. The Observer is published 
is poor or nonexistent. by the students of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $20 per year 
• • I 
er at .......:................--:... ..
($1 0 per semester) by writing The Observer, P.O. Box 0, Notre Dame. Indiana 46556. Second class 
for interviews 
postage paid, Notre Dame. Indiana 
46556. 
Jan. 27-28 at Notre Dame 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction 
Jan 27 at St. Mary's
rights are reserved. 

~-.-.-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
TheObserver 
Monday, January 26, 1981 -page 3 


high emotions on both sides seem to preclude a U.S.-Iranlan reconcilia­tion for years to come, ugly memories can be submerged If the national interest demands it. 
In this case, they said, Improved relations are In the Interest of both countries. 
Iran's politics have come down to a struggle between the conservative, clergy-led Islamic Republican Party, which dominates Parliament and backs Rajal, and the fil.ctlon 
represented by Bani-Sadr,  a  more  
secular,  Westernized  and  left­ 
leaning group.  

They struggle over a country grappling with monumental domes­tic problems. 
The economy Is In shambles, with massive unemployment, because of the disruptions of the 1978-79 revolution, International sanctions imposed because of the hostage­holding, and the war with Iraq which began last September. 
Kurdish separatists continue to wage a guerrilla war. Allies of the late shah still plot a counter­revolution. And Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini, irreplaceable symbol of the revolution, is in frail health. 
For most of the hostage-holding, Bani-Sadr's efforts to negotiate an end to the crisis confounded at every turn by revolutionaries taking a harder line, many affiliated with the IRP. 
A leading Iranian "pragmatist" said late last week that the hard­liners were embarrassed in the end. 
"This only showed the two-faced character of those who opposed their release and now agree (with it). The people of Iran now under­stand this two-facedness better," said this politician, who spoke by telephone from Tehran with The As­sociated Press in Beirut, Lebanon, on condition his name not be used. 
Professor Richard Cottam of the University of Pittsburgh, an Iran specialist who has visited the country since the hostage-taking, supports his view. 

••• Alutnni 
continuedfrom page I 

ment Is absolutely essential to the 
survival ofthe University." 
Students also complained about 

the lack of social space on campus. 
Reynolds said a major obstacle to 

the resolution of the problem was 
the lack of a consensus amongst the 
various student and administative 
groups involved. "The recent 
presentation (by Student Govern­
ment representatives) before the 
Board of Trustees was impressive," 
he said. "But there is no clear solu­
tion as yet." 
On a conduding note, Kruse com­
mented, "The Notre Dame Alumni 
Association Is bmadly ack­
nowledged as being one of the best 
in the United States. We're in­
terested in getting the younger 
alumni a<.'tive because they're the 

core for coming years." 
Last Wednesday he pointedly let it 
be known he had nothing to do with 
the final hostage negotiations. 
Cottam said "people I trust" in Tehran tell him the unpopularity of Rajal's government Is "very great," because ofboth the economic situa­tion and the lack of public order. Autonomous local revolutionary committees In middle-class north .Tehran have been confiscating homes and "terrorizing" people, he 
said. 
Significantly, Cottam said, "a lot of 
the clerics who have been affiliated 
with the IRP are moving to the other 
pole" -to Bani-Sadr's side. 
He said one result in the coming 
months could be a strengthened 
Bani-Sadr presidency, backed by the 
military. 
Professor Marvin Zunis ofthe Uni­
versity of Chicago, who specializes 
in psychological analysis of political 
events and has closely watched lran, 
agreed that the "crazies" in the IRP 
were the big losers in the hostage 
deal. 
Continued inteniational criticism 

• • • Aunt 
continuedfrompage I 
report. We're working with the Swiss-they've been very persistent and very professional," he said. 
Dwyer, chairman of the English department at Buffalo State College, said that Swiss intermediaries saw his wife during December, but have not seen her since. 
In his wife's most recent letter, received Dec. 12, Dwyer said "she sounds good and according to the Swiss she's physically fine." 
The Iranian government has not made formal charges against the journalist and John Dwyer fears that publicity would encourage the Iranians to press charges against his wife. 
The hostages husband stated the imprisonment ofhis wife "has been a media event," with national, as well as European networks covering the event. 
Advnncement Does Not Require An Advanced Degree 
You can spP.nc! another two to three years 1n graduate school or you car. turn foury ;ars of liberal arts education into a practical, chrllenging and rewarding career in just three months-as ar. Er 1ployee Benefit Specialist. 
Benefits touay amuun from 30 to 35 percent of wages and salaries. R• :cent pension legislation has created even more dEmand for trained specii:llists. As an Employee Benefit Specialist yo·J'II t-e called upon to excercise your own judgement, initiative and intelligence in a challenging, professional en·.1ironment with progressive responsibility. 
The Institute lor r:mployee Benefits Training is the first and most prestigioJs school in the United States, training Employee BEnefits and Pension Specialists. This is a dynamic, gro ving career field in which advancement does not require a 1 advanced degree. Our graduates are in demand by I .w firms, pension consulting firms, insurance companies, Janks, and personnel and benefits departments of corporations. The Institute's Placement Service will place you too. If not;you will be eligible for a substantial tuition refund. 
Furthermore, you will earn graduate credit towards a Master of Arts in Legal Studies through Antioch School of Law for all•;ourse work completed at The Institute. 
If you're c.. senior of high academic standing and looking for a meaningful career, contact your Placement Office for our catalog and arrange to have an interview with our repre­sentative. 
We will visit your campus or1t 

WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 28, 1981 
The 

Institute 
235 South 17th Street Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19103 
for 

(215) 732-6600
Employee 
Benefits 
Training 

(Operated by Para-Legal, Inc.) 
Approved by The American Bar Association Programs Earn Full Credit Toward M.A. in Legal Studies through Antioch School of Law. Ac-ooae 

1-­
ca 
c:a :z:­
:z:: ::z: 
!ICC c:::J 



NlllS9NIHdS l~nHD -,,j 
MONDAY, JANUARY 26th, 8:00 P.M. NOTRE DAME ATHLETIC & CONVOCATION CENTER 

ALL SEATS RESERVED $11.00-$10.50-$10.00 Tickets on sole now at: A.C.C. Box Office; Robertson's, South Bend & Concord Moll; first Bonk. Main BrandY; St. Joe Bank, Main Branch; Elkhart Truth; Suspended Chord, Elkhart; all three River City Outlets including Michigan City; I Record Land, Benton Harbor; JR's, LaPorte; Butterfly, Warsaw; Carma and I Passtime in Fort Wayne. 
1 
Major airlines are now accepting ap­
plicadons  for  the  following oppor­ 
tunides:  
FLIGHT A'ITENDANTS  

RAMP A BAGGAGE PERSONNEL TICKET AGENTS RESERVATIONS AGENTS CLERICAL POSITIONS CUSTOMER SERVICE FOOD SERVICE AIRCRAFf CLEANING BOOKKEEPING AIRCRAFf MAINTENANCE 
Individuals Interested In applying with these airlines companies mu.tt be career oriented, have a public reladons personality, be willing to travel if required, and be In good health. Major airlines will provide training for many of the posldons listed above. For further Information on how to Jm. mediately apply directly with these major airlines companies, 
write to: 
TRA VELEX, INC. A1TEN: AIRLINES APPLICATION INFO 3865 SOUTH WASATC~ BLVD. SUITE 101 SALT LAKE CI1Y, UTAH 81109 
Please Indicate brleOy your background, what airlines posi­tlon(s) you are Interested In applying for and enclose a stamped, self-addressed, letter-size envelope 80 that you may receive further Information as to what steps to take 80 that pos­sible Interviews rnJabt be arranged by these airUnes. All major "'irlines comJX''lies are EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYERS. 
THE ND STUDENT UNION AND 
SUNSHINE PROMOTIONS PROUDLY PRESENTS 



BRUCE SPRINGSTEEN 
~ 
::z: 
c::c 
CQ 
....... 
L.l.l
...... 

0 
i
ct:: ~ 
~~ ~
....... 
~ 

'lW

L.l.l ..., 
~ ' 
L.l.l 
:c 
~, 
J\1 
::z:­
::z: 
c:::J 
--1
::c 
~ 
~ 
--1
::a 
~
....., 

--1 ..J 
~ 

The Observer Monday, January 26, 1981 -page 4 
Hotel caters to ex-hostages 
WEST POINT, N.Y. (AP) -The academy official. Lt. Col. Elliott Fish­52 freed American hostages will burne, the academy's treasurer, said, spend their first two days on home "We're preparing for them to have soil getting reacquainted with loved all the privacy they want." ones in the privacy ofa government­The perimeter of the 54-year-old owned hotel on the grounds of the brickfaced hotel is being patrolled 
U.S. Military Academy. by military police trucked in from 
They'll be provided with round­Fort Dix, N.j., attack dogs and 
the-clock service befitting their academy security forces. 
hero status, including special Roads approaching the hotel's 
telephones, an open bar, free room half-moon driveway have been 
service and bountiful meals blockaded, with armed guards 
prepared to order. posted. The Thayer Gate entrance to 
Perched on a snow-covered cliff the 16,000-acre military reserva­
overlooking the ice-clogged Hudson tion, located a stone's throw from 
River at the southern end of West the hotel next to the Village ofHigh­
Point, the 170-room Hotel Thayer land Falls, is shut for the duration. 
will be closed to press and public The West Point Cadet Chapel also 
until tomorrow morning, when a has been closed to everyone but for­
voluntary news conference will be mer hostages and their kin. 
held before the hostage entourage Inside the six-story hotel an aug­
departs for Washington. mented staff of 240 will provide 
Until then, any contact with the 24-hour service. A special five­
world outside the hotel will be entree dinner menu is being offered 
strictly on the initiative of those -jumbo shrimp, chicken cordon 
inside. bleu, prime ribs of beef, steak and 
"It's their hotel. They can do lobster and veal scallopini. 
whatever they want," said hotel as­Fishburne said the special guests 
sistant manager Lee Curtis. will be able to eat in the 400-seat 
"If they want to be left alone, hotel restaurant or in their rooms. A that's the way it will be," said an traditional Thanks~Pving dinner is 







------------..I 
I 
I 

!TUESDAY!i NIGHT ! 
I II 
1 2 cansofbeedor S 1.00 
·----------------~ 
EDiiiDEERS 
ELECTRICAL • MECHANICAL • CIVIL 
LE1'S TALK CAREER ENERGY! 
STONE & WEBSTER--. 
Will Be on Campus For Interviews on 
FRIDAY, JANUARY 30th 
Be sure to see our representative when he comes on campus and talk with him about the successful career in energy wailing for you at Stone & Webster. 
Never before has power engineering and construction been so exciting. Stone & Webster is breaking new ground in all phases of alternate power generation and is in the forefront in developing these new technologies. Challenging projects exist in the areas of synthetic fuels. solar. nuclear. geothermal and coal gasification as well as on-going fossil fuel and hydroelectric power plants. We have challenging projects in pacesetting power sources: hydroelectric. nuclear. geothermal. tidal power. breeder reactors. coal gasification. synthetic fuels. and fusion reactors­be part of it all. Be involved in the world of energy, interfacing with the top professionals in the industry. With us you will have more flexibility. visibility. and career latitude; and our hands-on field training will get you in on the ground floor. Field experience in our industry is the bottom line. 
Come into the challenging Stone & Webster world of people. projects. and practice. For over 90 years. Stone & Webster has been a recognized leader in the design. engineering. and construction of power process. and industrial facilities all over the world. We are proud of our technological expertise and acheivements. but to ensure our growth and success. we need Electrical. Mechanical and Civil/Structural Engineers to help us meet the urgent energy challenges facing the world today. 
Contact your Placement Office lor an interview appointment, or send your resume to: Jim Rogers. Field Operations. 

A~!!!!~~!!!~!Sl~! 
P.O. Box 2193, Boston, MA 02106 
planned for tonight. 
A large crowd began gathering outside Thayer Gate as Sunday mor­ning services were completed at village churches. Many in the crowd carried American flags and yellow ribbons, while hawkers peddled flags, ribbons and lapel buttons. 
A giant "Welcome Home" sign with two-foot high red letters was stretched over Main Street, just in front of the academy barricades. 
Buy 
Oassified ads 
in the 

Observer 

The Administration Building is reflected in the meltingjanuary 
snow. (Photo byjohn Macor) 
I -NOTICE­
I 
It is available at selected Irish Pubs and also a few rest~urants, taverns, clubs, bars, hotels, saloons, liquor stores and maybe even at the Senior Bar. 
"Fighting Irish Beer" 

Any student interested in the position of 


Observer Editor-In-Chief For 1981-1982 
Contact Paul at 7471 
applications due Jan. 27 
-·-­


"The next day, John was at the river again with two ofhls disciples. As he watchedjesus walk by, he said, 'Look, There is the Lamb ofGod!' The two 
disciples heard what he said, and followed Jesus. When Jesus turned around 
and noticed them following him, he asked them, 'What are you looking for?' 
They said to him, 'Rabbi, where do you stay?' 
. 

"COME AND SEE," 
he answered. So they went to see where he was lodged, and stayed with him that day." 
GENTLEMEN: 
THE FRANCISCAN FRIARS INVITE YOU TO "COME AND SEE", 
VOCATION RETREAT 
JAN 30-FEB 1 
FRANCISCAN RETREAT CENTER Mount SaintFranci'i, Indiana 
For your reservation or for funher lnfor:nation contact Friar Richard or Friar William: 
St. Anthony Novitiate 1316 W. Dragon Trail Transportation will be provtd-:dMishawaka, IN 46544 for ND students 

(219) 255-2442 

Exhibition opens 
at Snite 
An exhibition of drawings and watercolors by Franklin McMahon, noted Chicago artist-reporter, will open at the Snite Museum of Art at the University of Notre Dame Sun­day, jan. 25. 
Through the use of a graphic and 
often colorful style, McMahon 
reports on many of the major issues 
that faced the Church and the social 
conflicts that posed a threat to 
humanity. Particularly strong are 
watercolors of the present pope's 
visits to Auschwitz and Birkenau. 
Drawings of the strike for better 
working conditions for grape pick­
ers, a portrait of Dr. Martin Luther 
King and a march by the Catholic an­
tiwar movement are reminders of 
conflicts in our recent history. 
Many of the works in the exhibi­tion were used to illustrate the recently published book, "This Church Since Vatican II," written by Very Rev. Francis X. Murphy with a foreword by Rev. Theodore M. Hes­burgh ofNotre Dame. 
The Observer Monday, January 26, 1981 -page ' 

Polish governlllent to televise debate on national news 



provide the forum for the union­government debate. The debate would be an event that, like the inde­pendent trade union Solidarity and its estimated 1 0 million members, is unprecedented in the Soviet bloc. 
But a communique from "some Polish miners," published by the of­ficial news agency PAP with ap­parent government approval, proposed the debate be aired next Saturday and Sunday. A union official said the debate might be recorded in advance this week. 
The offer followed a massive protest Saturday against the govern­ment's refusal to grant an immediate five-day workweek. It was the lar­gest show of union strength since a nationwide warning strike last Oct. 3 and surpassed a strike Jan. 10, the previous working Saturday. 
Estimates of the number of workers involved Saturday varied. The government said 40 percent of the nation's workers stayed home. 
Union leaders, who saw that claim as a means of tilting public opinion against them, said some 75 to 90 per­cent of Poland's workers responded to an appeal from Solidarity leader Lech Walesa that Saturday be free. 

WARSAW, Poland (AP) -The Polish government offered Sunday to debate on nationwide, state· controlled television the union leaders who staged massive labor protests last week to press for a 40­hour, five-day workweek. 
Meanwhile, reports circulated here that Solidarity, the Independ­ent union born during last summer's nationwide strikes, planned a ReneraJ one-hour warning strike Feb. 3 to support f.lrmers seeking a similar independent union. 
A solidarity official In the Baltic area port of Gdansk said this coming Wednesday would be a simllar day of sympathy for the farmers "in all comers ofPoland," but saJd it would not take the form ofa general strike. He did not elaborate. 
Earlier Sunday, officials said the main evening news program would 

Diplomats express ideas on post-release Iran relations 
By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS The international community should "punish" the government of Iran l(>r its sdzure of American hostages, but military reprisal would be too strong a measure, Sen. Charles Percy, chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Commit· tee, said in a television interview Sunday. Former Secretary ofState Edmund 
S. Muskic, In another television in· u:ricw, said that In the future, the world community should halt trade and break relations with any nation that violates the rights ofanother na­tion's diplomats. 
Warren Christopher, Muskie's for­mer deputy who served as chid negotiator for the hostage release, said that although he believes the Reagan administration should abide by the deal that freed the hostages, it will be "a long time" before U.S. rela· lions with Iran return to normal. 
Percy, an lllinols Republican who 
was interviewed on NBC TV's" Meet 
the Press," expressed outragt· over 
''the barbaric behavior" of the 
Iranian government and said it 
would "have to pay the price" for 
any mistreatment of the hostages. 
"There is an clement of punish­
ment that I think the government of 
Iran must be forced to face now," 
Percy said. 
He declined to spell out what kind 
of punishment he meant, but Percy 
suggested the Iranian government 
should be condemned by the inter­
national community for its behavior 
during the 444-day ordeal. 
lie seemed to rule out military 
reprisal, however, saying that "we 
cannot condemn an entire people 
for the exccsses...of a temporary 
government. 
Muskle, appearing with former 
White House counsel Uoyd Cutler 
on ABC-TV's "Issues and Answers," 
said any nation that considered 
seizing hostages in the future "ought 
to be clearly aware of the conse­
quences in terms ofits relations with 
the rest of the countries of this 
planet." 
Cutler suggested an international accord under which nations would close down their embassies in a country which sanctioned the taking of hostages and would expel that contry's diplomats from their own soil. lie said the agreement 
Ohhhh Noooo! Mr. Bill's Turned2li 
+



JJ'b 

HAPPY BIRTHDAY, BAMBINO Love, Mandarin Orange Spice 
should be triggered automatically once the World Court found· that diplomats had been illegally detained by their host nation. 
Christopher, appearing on CBS­TV's "Face the Nation" also said the United States should honor the agreement, despite the "vile and disgusting" treatment to which the hostages were subjected. 
To back out now, he said, would have an adverse impact around the world 

1 I'd like more Information about ca""r opportunllles with NSA. 1
tomputer Sdenc:e: N. NSA you'll discover on' . \".· N. NSA your future will be linked to the nation's. 

I I
ofthe largest computer iilstallations in the world with\ 1 · JMyital role that the National Security Agency plays I Name (print) I almost every major vendor of computer ~ipment \ -~ and ensures constant challenge and profes.. 
I Address I 
represented NSA careers provide mixtures of such , siooal growth. I I disciplines as systems analysis and 'lesign, scientific \ 1b find out more about NSA career owortunities, 
I I
1 Phone No. .. I awUcations programming, data base management sch~le an Interview through your college placement 
I I systems, operating systems, computer networking! \ , office. For additional information on the National 1 Del!"" level Malor 1 
security. and graphic;. ' -'1 t: . I I 

Themreerdedsionyoumake today

couldinfluencenational security tomorrow. 
For professionals at NSA contribute to the dual rnl$1ons of foreign intelligeoce production and communications mnity. 
Our Eltmonic Engineers, Computer Scten!Ns and Mathematicia~ are working with systems at the cutting edge of brlmology. 
Career owortunities and challenge await you in any of these NSA career fiel~. 
Elet:tronic: Engineering: There are owor­tunities in a variety of research and development project; ranging from individual ~ipmel1fli to very complex interactive systems involving large numbers of microprore;sors, mini-computers and computer graphic;. Professional growth is enhanced through interaction with high~ experienced NSA professionals and through contacts in the industrial and academic worl~. Facilities for engineering analysis and design automation are among the best available. i communications-related problems, performing long-Security Agency, fill in the information blank below range mathematical research or evaluating new and send it to Mr. llernard Norvell, College Recruit­t«hniques for communications security. ment Manager, National Security Agerx:y, Attn: Office 

Ungulats: NSA offers a wide range of challeng-of Employment (M32R), Fort George G. Meade, ing ~ignmel1fli for Slavic, Near Eastern and Asian Maryland 20755. language majors lnvoMng translation, transcription An Equal Opportunity Employer. U$ dtizenship and analysis/reporting. Newly-hired linguists can required. count on receiving advanced training in their primary languages and can plan on many years of continued professional growth. 
NSA also offers asalary and benefit program that's tru~ competitive with private industry. There are 3$ignmel1fli for those who wish to travel and abun­dant good living in the Baltimore-Washington area for those who wish to stay close to home. 
Countless cuhural, historical, recreational and educational owortunities are just minutes away from NSA's convenient suburban location. 


r-------------------, 
The Observer Monday,. January 26, 1981 -page 6 


Reagan tells ex-hostages: ''America is proud of you'' 
PEACE CORPS PRACTICES APPLIED SCIENCE. 
And Peace Corps volunteers with science backgrounds do the applying. Teaching biology to high school stu­dents, working on sanitation improvements or disease control. If you have science training or aptitude and care to help others, apply. 
• I • I
Register at p 
for interviews: Jan 27-28 at Notre Dame Jan. 27 at St. Mary's 
Some say FIGHTING IRISH is brewed under the Golden Dome­Don't believe it. Its brewed at the end of the rainbow by Leprechauns. 
Now Available-at the end of your 
favorite rainbow & other drinking em oriums. 

--First Annual-­
OFF-CAMPUS 

FORMAL 
Century Center Great Hall January 31, 1981 9pm-1am---­Price: $14.00/couple Band: Crystal 
0 0 
Tickets can be purchased pilo•
0il~lllllillliliiii_llillll.._....~.... 
at thefollowing locations ... 
OPEN 
Campus View: Sherri McGonil(le 
BAR
54585/rish Wa_y Apt.103 277-8280 

9:30­
St. Mary's Off-Campus Lounge llam-lpm 

10:30pm
LaFortune Student Center llam-Ipm 
Notre Dame Apts. Carole McCollester Apt.4B Spon,oredByND-SMCOff-CamfJu•C:ommission•. 

~----------------------------~·­
WASHINGTON (AP) -President "This is a moment for you and for Reagan, his eyes filling with tears them." and his voice choking from emotion, It was a meeting where tears told the families of the 52 freed mixed with laughter and with the hostages yesterday that "America expectation of, at last, an end to the has to be very proud ofyou." 14-month hostage drama 
The president met with 139 Larry Persinger, father of former relatives of the hostages in the hostage Gregory Persinger _of ornate, gold-chandeliered State Seaford, Del., thanked Reagan for Dining Room of the White House -helping to bring the Americans their last stop before a short plane home. "You helped put the icing on ride and the long-awaited reunion the cake," he said. with their loved ones at the West As they talked among themselves, Point Military Academy in New some recalled the strain of the long York. ordeal. 
"We won't be going with you to Cheryl Kalp, whose husband Mal­
New York because we feel very colm was a hostage, said her 14-year­
deeply that you don't need any out­old son Michael "kept me together 
siders," Reagan told the relatives. in the hardest oftimes." 
Jan. 26, 1981 
Bruce Springsteen, 
As advertising costs continue to rise, we think lt was very considerate of you to mention our compan in the title of your new 
album I 
Thank you for your helpl 
Peter Kernan River City Records The River City Review 
Clubs and Organi~ations sign up for a table (30" X 30") by calling Student Activities at 7308 or Milton Legrand of ALPHA PHI OMEGA, a servi_ce organization, at 3266 by 
Tuesday, 4:30p.m. 
I CLUBS----INCREASE YOUR MEMBERSHIP 
I I 
f'JEW CLUBS--START YOURMEMBERSHI~ 
1 [sTUDENTS--FIND OUT ABOUT EXTRA : rCURRICULAR ACTIVITIES AND GET I ~L----------------l~~QL~E~U ___J 

"He's been the man of the house all this long time, but I'm sure he's happy to relinquish that role today," she said. 
The president met individually with family members after address· ing them as a group. Several women hugged him when their turns came. He shook hands with some and scribbled his autograph on napkins and even passports for others. 
Several small children played with stuffed animals and crawled under the huge dining room table during the 45-minute meeting. 
The visitors drank coffee and orange juicand ate sweet rolls as the president, First Lady Nancy Reagan, Vice President George Bush and his wife, Barbara, mingled. A marine combo played in the foyer. 
Each family member wore a name tag adorned with an oak leaf -a symbol ofthe yellow ribbons strung on thousands of trees during the long wait. Some also wore buttons bearing messages like "My Dad's the Greatest" and "Welcome home Mike." 
Yellow ribbons decorated each 
window of the four buses that 
carried the families to the White 
House and then on to Andrews Air 
Force Base for the 
Israel dig 
seeks applicants 
There are still some places open on the ND/SMC archaelogical ex­cavation at Capernaum on the Sea of Galilee in Israel this summer. The dates are May 23 to june 26, and the total cost, including round-trip air fare from Chicago to Tel Aviv, is 
51,500. Feb. 15 is the deadline for signing up and paying deposit. For details call Professor Joseph Blenkinsopp, Dept. of Theology (2-33-6841 evenings, or leave a note in the mailbox of the Theology Office, O'Shaughnessy). 
It is important that you note the following changes in sign-up times and locations. Priority signups are on Tuesdays from 8 a.m. until noon at LaFortune, lower level rectan­gular room, adjacent to the Nazz. There is a two employer selection limit, and literature is available at the Placement Bureau, 213 and 222 Ad­ministration Building. 
Non-priority signups are on Wed­nesdays, Thursdays and Fridays from 
8:30 until 4:30 at the Placement Bureau, 213 Administration Build­ing. There is no employer selection limit. 
Saint Mary's students may sign up for interviews on Fridays. 
On Mondays, there are no sign­ups, but literature is available in 213 or 222 Administration Building. 
All other sign-up procedures remain just as described in the Placement Manual. 


Editorial Board and Department Managers 
Editor-in-Cblef...................................... Paul Mullaney Sports Editor...........................................Betb Huffman 
Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 ManagingEdttor..........................................Mark Rust Features Edttor.......................................Molly Woulfe
1 

The Observer is an independent newspaper published by the students of the Editorials Edltor.............................. Michael Onufrak :Pboto Editor ..............................................John Macor University of Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's Collese. It does not necessarily Senior Copy Editor.....................Mary Fran Callahan reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reponed Executive News Edltor.........................Tom]ackman Business Manager..................................Greg Hedges as accurately and as objectively as possible. Editorials represent the opinion of a NewsEditor...............................................Pam Degnan Controller........................................................Jim Rudd 
majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, opinions, and letters are the views News Editor...............................................Lynne Daley Advertising Manager................................... Mark Ellis of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community, and SMCExecutive Edltor.......................... Margie Brassll Circulation Manager............................Beth Hackett the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged. SMC News Editor............................. : ........Mary Leavitt Production Manager_:_-------------------------John McGrath 


The-flbsenu==================== 








T0 da~========================M=o=n=d=a=y='J=a=n=ua=r=y=2=6=,=1=9=8=1=-=p=ag=e=7= 


Doonesbury Garry Trudeau 

Molarity 
Peanuts® 

Michael Molinelli 

Charles Schulz 



The Observer Monday, January 26, 1981 -page 8 


MONDAY 
NIGHT LIVE BAND 

• • • Cagers 
continuedfrom page 12 
on Buck Williams," Phelps said. Maryland's 6-8 junior center, who played on the 1980 Olympic team with Notre Dame graduate Bill Hanzlik, pulled down just three of his game-total nine rebounds and scored nine of his 20 points in the second half. 
Yet when it came down to the final minutes of this tight game, it was clutch free throw shooting by the Irish that made the difference. After missing the front end of a one· and-one situation with just minutes remaining, Kelly Tripucka "showed why he's an all-American," accord­ing to Phelps, as he hit on his last six from the charity stripe to preserve the Irish victory. Tripucka finished with a game-high 25 points which included an 11-for-13 performance from the foul line. 
Freshman swingman Tom Sluby, playing before many hometown friends and relatives, iced the game with 0:13 remaining as he calmly hit two free throws to put the Irish up by three. The Terps were able to pull to within one with :07 on the clock, but Notre Dame easily broke the Maryland full-court press, got the 

If you're a nursing student with an average of 3.0 ( on a 4.0 scale ) you can get your career off the ground early. 
The Air Force's Early Commissioning Programoffers: e Aguaranteed internship program. e Top pay... w~ile you train. e Abenefits package second to none. 
Time is short, so call today: 
(317) 269-6377 collect 
Or see the Air Force recruiter who'll 
be in your school every day until January 27. 

ball down court, only to have Tripuck fouled and hit the final two points ofthe game. 
For Lefty Driesell's Terrapins, this was their fourth loss in a big game, something Dreisel often has been accused of not being able to win. Road losses earlier this season at Louisville and North Carolina, an overtime setback in Cole Field House at the hands of Virginia and this loss, leave the 1Oth ranked Terps at 11-4 on the year. The 13th rated Irish are now 12-3. 
''We just knew we had to stop Albert.' ' 
"It was a gre·at game for the fans to watch," said Driesell, shaking his head. "But there's no way we should have lost another game in Cole Field House. 
"I don't know what it is. I don't know why we're losing. It's a mys­tery to me," the confused coach added. "We're the same team as last year. We've got the same coaches and we're playing the same teams. But then last year nobody thought we'd win the games, so we were hunting people. Now they're hun­ting us." 
IRISH ITEMS -Everyone in the Maryland student section was wearing a yellow ribbon in honor of the return of the 52 former hostages...the game was nationally televised by NBC as part ofa double­header which featured DePaul vs. LaSalle as the second game...Notre Dame now has won four of the last five games in this series which now stands at 4-4...the Irish play host to Cornell Tuesday night. 
Orlando Woolridge slams in, with violence, two of his ten points against Maryland. (Photo byjohn Macor) 
Conditioning program set 

Anyone interested in a condition­ing program should report to the football office at the AC.C. begin­
ning Jan. 26. The program, which will run through March 27, will con­sist of agility drills and weight train­ing. 
The Observer Monday, January 26, 1981 -page 9 

RCA 

JOHNNY HORTON'S 
:';:: GnEATEST BITS ·. 
THE BATILE OF NEW ORLEANS WHEN IT'S SPRINGTIME IN ALASKA 
(It's Forty Below) NORTH TO ALASKA/SINK THE BISMARK I'M READY. IF YOU'RE WILLING 

t;iwlhn~ill 
ornm:"oit.' 
MCA 
PICKWICK 

MCA MANYMORETOCHOOSEFROM! 
Available at The Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore 

The Observer Monday, January 26, 1981 -page 10 
• • • Hockey 

continuedfrom page 12 
third goal in the period. 
ND did strike backfor two goals in the final ten minutes OeffLogan and Schmidt adding to their scoring to· tals ), but Denver kept up the pressure which culminated with Morrow's third goal of the night. This, Denver's ninth goal of the eve­ning, was particularly embarassing to the Irish coming as it did with Denver playing short-handed and Morrow stealing the puck from an Irish defenseman's stick. 
Things were not quite as gloomy Friday night, though the result for the Irish was ultimately the same. ND got offto a fast start in the series' opener when Jeff Logan whipped the puck through the pads of Pioneer goalie Scott Robinson with only 47 seconds elapsed from the clock. The Irish added to their ad· vantage ten minutes later when junior winger Bill Rothstein sent a power play goal past a sprawling Robinson. 
Denver was finally able to muster some offense five mimutes later when Ken Berry scored on a crisp pass from defenseman Shawn Dineen. But everything looked rosy two minutes later when Logan regis­tered his second tally on assists from center Kirt Bjork and winger Kevin Humphreys (both of whom assisted on Logan's first goal). 


The second period was high­lighted by aggressive fore-checking on the behalf of Notre Dame. Though they were unable to mount much offense oftheir own, the Irish were able to confine Denver to their own zone. &it Berry broke the stan­doff for Denver at 8:26 pulling the Pioneers to within one on his second goal ofthe night. Berry'sgoal set the stage for a drive from senior defenseman Gary Nedelak who zipped the puck past McNamara just 33 seconds later. Dave Berry, the freshman center brother of Ken, added another Pioneer goal at 15:15, and Denver was in the lead, 4-3. 
The Irish showed some life about one minute later when they chalked up their second power play goal of the night thanks to Bjork and some smart passing from Parsons and Logan. This was followed by a Den­ver goal scored by sophomore cen­terJohn Uprando, but the Irish again knotted the game just 44 seconds later on a drive by freshman winger Joe Bowie. 
The score was tied at 5-5 as the third period began. Both teams skated cautiously through the first few minutes with the consistently effective Irish forechecking keeping the powerful Pioneer offense at bay. Each team carefully probed the other's defen~. but to no immediate avail At 10:29 though, Nederlak broke through the Irish defense and beat McNamara for what would prove to be the game winner. The Irish skated fiercly throughout the final minutes, but their inability to engineer a smooth attack and Den­ver's cat-and-mouse defense even­tually stilled all Irish opportunities. 
Notre Dame was handicapped thoughout the series by a case ofthe flu which incapacitated star Irish center Dave Poulin. Poulin was unable to dress for Friday night's match-up and was less than 100/ Saturday night according to Smith. 
If the Irish are to move up in the standings and capture a WCHA playoff spot (the first eight finishing teams of the league's ten members qualify for postseason play), they will have to do it on the road. ND traveis to Minnesota-Duluth this week and will remain on the road against Michigan and Michigan State. in coming series. 
A discount to students (ticket prices were lowered from $4.00 to 
$2.50) helped attendance to a slight degree. Attendance for Friday's game was pegged at 2, 761 while 3,005 fans witnessed the Saturday af. ' fair. ACC capacity for hockey is 4,287. 
Swimmers 


beat Wayne 

The Fighting Irish swim team defeated Wayne St. in a swim meet Friday at the Rockne Memorial pool The final score was 60-53. The meet had an exciting finish, as the teams entered the final event tied at 53. John Komora anchored the Irish 400-yard freestyle relay team to vic­tory in the final event. Irish swim­mer Pat l..aPlatney set a meet record in the 200 yard backstroke with a time of2:02.6. 







Classifieds 
Monday, January 26, 1981-page 11 
Nc:w York Times now available in 
Need Springsteen tickets. Floor or Dc:sperately ncc:d one pa1t of UCLA

box outside store by 2 a.RL daily CAMPUS VIEW APT. AVAIL GREAT­YOU'VE HEARD ABOUT IT, YOU'VE 
NOTICES pads only. Calljohn Higgins at 8553. GA Ucketa fur my parento. PleaKPANDORA'S BOOKS, 937 South LY REDUCED RENT. USA AT 2968 IU!AD ABOUT IT, BUT DO ntEY
help. Call Steve anytime at6656.

Bend Ave., 233·2342. OR MARIE AT 277·3~79. GIVE MATCHJ!Sl
NEED 2 GA TICKETS FOR NO-UCLA 
BASKETBALL GAME. PLEASE CALL TIX FOR ntE BOSS 4-SALE CALL

FOR RENT: Large, furnished houses NATURAL FAMILY PLANNINGTHERE'S MORE TO THE STORY SHIRLEY AT 8661 OR 1715 BEFORE 233·6o68for next Fall. For more information,
TitAN MEETS THE EYE 5P.M. GIVES A WOMAN, NOT A DRUG­
call 283-8702. GISf OR A DOCTOR, CONnOL OF 
FREE SEX is not sold here, but if you NEED FOUR GA'S FOR SOUTH HER BODY. CAN YOUR MEntOD Furnished house for rent couple CLAIM THATI EVERYONE INVITED 
ILOST/FOUND I 

received Christmas money and/or CAROUNA. CALL BOB 4641. want to upgrade: your stcrro system, LOST: gold and pearl bracelet at or blocks from campus and furnished PERSONALS 
TO LEARN MORE ON MONDAY, on the way to the San francisco country house for rent, 12 minutes jAN. 26, AT 7:,0 P.M., UBRARY
I have, for a limited time only, the NEED UCLA GA'S--CALL MATT AT 
game. Iffound, please call1284. to N.D. 277-3604, 288-0955. AUDITORIUM.
NUMARK I!Q-2300, a profc:ssional 232-0921. 
ANNOUNCEMENTstudio I 0-band per channel graphic Lost silver St. Christopher medal 

2 bedroom bungalow, carpeted, par­On November 24, 1980, the MARRIED? ENGAGED? SEARCHING Thurs. 1·1 5-81 at Stepan caD Frank jackson Soclery for the Over­
equalizer at an UNBEATABLE PRICE. NEED 2 GA TICKETS FOR JAN. ~I 
tially furnished, I 0 minutes to N.D., FOR A SAFE, HEALTHY, EFFI!CTIVE 1740 good area. 288-0955. prtvile~d deemed that Mary PoweU AND MORALLY ACCEPTABLE for more information on this or any SC GAME, CALL6814. 
other Stereo Equipment, call Scott at jabely wu sulllclently schooled In 
MEANS OF PLANNING PREG­LOST: Silver pic:reed earring (white the social Jll'liCe& to "come out" Into
EMERSON ELECTRONICS until I Four exceUent paddc:d seats for 
Nice houses for rent for next school NANCII!Sl CALL 288-2662 TO enameled Dower). Rc:ward. lfround, soclery. 'I'M socially aware of
a.m. at 283-6811. Springsteen. Call Rob 277-0865. 
year or summer. Furnished, good REGISTER FOR NATURAL FAMILY call 277-8819. Jackson lauded this decision and
neighborhood, close to campus. PLANNING CLASS STARTING TUES. elllllble young bachelors showered
Typing -will do typing in my home. Senior studc:nt b-ballticket book for 
Term Paper., etc. 233-6730. 277-~604, 288-0955. sale. UCLA Uckc:t included. Padded DAY,JANUARY 27, ON CAMPUS. 
Lost: Men's gold class ring. P.C. High the beautiful Miss jabely with roseo.
seat. Call Marc at I 369.
School. Orange stone. Phil8338. However, In view of her current 

J.RJ. UJ -thanks for being so patient SOLO IN LESS THAN 30 DAYS Wantc:d: 2-4 GA's to UCLA and/or St. the: last coupk of days. Sorry I have LF.ARN TO FLY WITH REGIONAL 
residence In South Bend, Mlssjabely Lost: room and car keys, near ad miW be judged according to local 

Rc:lllonal Flying Cluh Is a nonprofit WANTED Francis baskc:tball games. Top U U. bec:n such a !oadl I hope from now 
bldg. on an ~Ill ring. U found call standards of social IICceptablllry. In 

on I wiD only do things that wiDorganization dedicated to the: train­Call1804.
8700. review of her caK, we have found 

cause you to smile: and say I haveing of students. We offer you the Need 2 GA Tix for UCLA--Will gladly that although Indeed graceful and nice memories oflodayl AU my Love, finest equipmc:nt at the lowest rates Need UCLA tickets: 2 student and I
FOUND: A WATCH IN STANFORD pay big bucks. CaillJ, 3207. lovely, MISBjabely Is conceited, self­
S.K.M.

in this area. Rc:gional can take you GA. WID pay mc:gabuck US. Plc:ase 
HAll'S PARTY ROOM LAST FRIDAY centered, and disdainful ofeveryone

from ground Instruction up through call Cyndy 8014. 
OAN. 16). CALL PAUL 8636. Two Notre Dame students are but hersel! Sorry Mary PoweU. You 

50lo In less than 30 days. Call us now NOTRE DAME GANG: THANKS FOR 
looking for one or two roomates to just didn't make the grade. The South 

at 683·9499 and >tan Oying today. WID pay good money for several THE PARTY AT MUNCIE HOUDAY
Lost: Woman's Gold Watch on live in five bedroom house. Call 234-Bend/Mishawaka Sociery ofthe Real
UCLA Tlx--call Dan 8233. 

INN. BSU LADIES.
Friday: 6728 Sue or Christy 6734. 7988 and ask for Bob or Mike for would therefore like to announce 

PROFESSIONAL TYPING. Term the social event of the: season. M1ssdetails. 
papers, theses, etc. Tape transcrip­WANTED: I UCLA TICKET, STU·
LOST-ONE BROWN BACKGAM­jabely came out In Jackson. We are Barb,

tion. Last year's same low prlces. All DENT OR GA. PLEASE CALL PAT AT
MON SET ON THE D.C. CLUB X-MAS sponsoring the ftrst Putting-Back-In

Desperately needed: 2 pairs of UCLA Is the "City of Champion•" once:work guaranteed. aardvark 277-8727
BUS. IF FOUND PLEASE CALL-3327. GA's for Jr. Parents' Weekend. Please Ball. The event wtU be held on Satur­again tbe "Clry ofSmogand Smoke:''? 
automatic solutions. 289-6 75 3. 
call Maureen or Sue at 4424. day, January 31 at the West Side: -one oflhe "K.'s ofC.M." 
TWO BRUCE SPRINGSEIN TICKETS Polish-American Club featuring P.S. How's ol' C.M. doln' 1

I ------------------------------------------------------­

PANDORA'S BOOKS <·an save you IN EXCHANGE FOR TWO UCLA Therc:sa Brown and hc:r Jackson-IsTICKETS CALL BOB AT 232-6859
many dollars on books for your 
Topeka-Bus-Riding-Blues Band. cla.'IIICs. Try us first. We can special 
Come, bring all your frlc:nds and put Q: Who is responsihk for all the order book.•. hoth texts and paper­
'--______F~----~-----~---~--~-T I FOR s~-~~ Need 2 UCLA GA'S. Calljim, 4613.
_____-____ ______--~----I 

Mary Powc:U back whc:rr shr moose: jokes In the Yukon? hacks, and usually have the books 
Houses for rent summer and/or next bdongs. A: Make no moosctake ahout it, it I• within 3 days. Pandora's is a fuii­
school year. Good condition, close For Sale: 1974 AMC Hornet. Good PARENTS COMING FOR JUNIOR NOT Ryan (or Keith) Ver Berkmoes. 
M"rvkt" bookstort." with new and 
to campus, partially furnished. For PARENTS WEEKEND. NEED TWO finance Club Forum. Meet olllcc:rs of Moose Control
Condition. S2~0. Call David 233·used book5, newspapers and 

info call 287-5361 aficr 6 p.m. 3658. GA TIX FOR UCLA. PLEASE CALL Esmark, Pedc:ral Express, Dc:an Wit­(A small note tn lht· pc:rsnn who magazines. PANDORA'S BOOKS, 
MARGAT6879. ter, and more. january 27,28,29 122 wrote on the wall hy the campus937 South Bend Ave., 233-.l:\42. 
House for rent, second st·mcstcr Hayes Healy. Sc:e "On Campus" for phone In Lafortune.) and/or next year. Excellent condi­limes. Sell your old textbooks or trade 
tion, close to campus, partially fur­Q: Why l• Pope John Paul II in lhe them in for your spring textbooks. 
nished. Fur infocal1287-~361 after6 TICKETS· Desperately need two UCLA GA'S SOCIAL CONCERNS FILM SERII!S Yukon so uftc:n? 
Immediate exchange or crc.·dit for 
p.m. pay big U call1174 BEGINS THIS WEEK WITH "THE A: Be<·ausc It Is tht• ht•st place to future pun_·ha"ies. Good prkes forr 
GREAT SANTINI." cc.·lcbratc Moose! (Ami rt·mc.·mher, most used hooks. PANDORA'S 
For Rent: Cozy apt. for rent ncar I need Springsteen tickets. Good Need 2 GA'S to ANY rc:malnlng home the first two-thirds of a pun is pew! BOOKS, 937 South Bend Ave., 233· River & Park. S I ~ULmo. Call 232-seats only. Call Dusty at4201 (SMC) basketball game. Call Brad at 1247 GOD MADE NOTRE DAME 9 Think ahout it. ) 2342. 
4~49. 

NOTRE DAME STUDENT UNION SPRING BREAK IN DAYTONA BEACH MARCH 13 ­22, 1981 4 PER ROOM5207 [2 Double Beds! 6 PER ROOM5195 (3 Double Beds! TRIP INCLUDES • Round trip motor coach transportation on first class charter coaches leaving the campus Friday evening March 13 and traveling straight through with plenty of partying to Daytona Beach, arriving the following day. The return trip departs the follow­ing Sat. in the afternoon, and arrives back on campus the next day. • A full seven nights accommodations at the Plaza Hotel of Daytona Beach, Florida. • A great time in Daytona with special parties and activities. • Optional trip to Disney World available. • All taxes and gratuities. SIGN UP NOW AT THE TICKET OFFICE IN THE LA FORTUNE BUILDING 8:00 a.m~ -5:00 p.m. MON.-FRI. OR CALL 283-3031 (after five 283-6283J  


NEW ORLEANS (AP) -The Oak· land Raiders defeated the Philadel­phia Eagles 27-10 in Super Bowl XV yesterday. Oakland led from start to finish. The Raiders appeared to have complete control of the game from the opening kickoff. On the first series of the game, Eagle quarter­back Ron Jaworski was intercepted. Oakland capitalized on the turnover, scoring on a touchdown pass from Jim Plunkett to Cliff Branch. 
Philadelphia, with the ball on its own 37-yard line, moved to the Oak· land 40, thanks in part to Jaworski's 13-yard pass to Montgomery. 
On third-and-10, Jaworski un­loaded a bomb toward the right cor­ner of the end zone. Rodney Parker ran away from cornerback Odis 

Monday,.January 26, 1981-page 12


Sports 

Oakland claims Superbowl title 
Raiders capitalize on Eagle errors 
McKinney and safety Burgess began. phia to within 11 yards of the end Owens to catch the ball. But it On third-and-4 from the Oakland zone. The Eagles stalled there, and wasn't a touchdown. Harold Carmie· 20-yard line, Plunkett dropped back, Tony Franklin missed a 25-yard field hael, the other wide receiver who then scrambled out of danger to his goal. was expected to be apivotal force in left. He threw to King, being The first half had belonged to 
27 10 
Raiders] Eagles 
this game, had been in motion on the play. And when he cut forward an in­stant before the snap of the ball, he drew a penalty, wiping out the potential tying score. Then the rout guarded around the left sideline by Hermann Edwards. The Eagles' cor­nerback tried for a deflection, got only air, and King got the ball at the Eagles' 39. 
Sixty-one yards later, King had a touchdown and a Super Bowl record 
· and the Raiders, with nine seconds remaining in the opening period, had a 14-0 lead. 
Franklin's field goal, with 4:32 gone in the second period, brought

Free throws make the difference 
the Philadelphia faithful back to life, coming after Jaworski had driven By MICHAEL ORTMAN After their hot-shooting first half to permit Andree to ram home a pair the Eagles 61 yards in nine plays to 
4ssociate Sports Editor ( 16-of-2 3, .696), the Terrapins took of slam dunks, one of which was the Oakland 13. 
Chris Bahr, who kicked second­
a three-point lead into the locker scratched because of a traveling 
.half field goals of 46 and 35 yards,
COLLEGE PARK, Md. -How do room, 41-38. violation. Woolridge also silenced 
had an opportunity to restore the
you stop an all-American from "I felt good beingonly three down the capacity crowd of 14,500 with 
Raider's 14-point lead with about 3
scoring? with Woolridge out so long," Phelps two ofhis patented jams. 
minutes to go in the second quarter.
It's simple -kind oi You just admitted after the game. The Irish took the lead for good 
But his attempt from 45 yards away 
don't let him get the ball And by There was little talk of offense in early in the second half, and played 
was wide to the right.
employing that defensive the Irish locker room. "We talked solid team defense to fend off any 
Once again Philadelphia began to
philosophy in the second half of defense," said sophomore Tim Maryland comeback. 
move. Jaworski hooked up with the
Saturday's Notre Dame-Maryland Andree. "We didn't change anything "A lot of credit goes to Tim 
6-foot-8 Carmichael on passes of 29
game, the Fighting Irish were able to offensively. Tracy Oackson) and Andree for the second halfjob he did 
and 14 yards, ·then hit Montgomery
shut down the Terrapins' all­John (Paxson) just did a great job 
on a 16-yard pass, taking Philadel­
everythingAlbert King and roU on to getting the ball inside in the second 
See CAGERS, page 8 a 73·70 victory. bali We didn't change anything. Notre Dame might have been able There were just more opportunities. to stop King in the first half if for· We just knew we had to stop AI· ward Orlando Woolridge had been bert." 
Defensive let-down 
able to see more than 4:1 7 ofplaying And stop him they did. After his 
time. But when "0" picked up his 14-point performance in the first third personal foul, Irish Coach half, last year's ACC Player of the Digger Phelps sat the big man down Year returned to score· just four 


leers fall twice to Denver 
for the remainder ofthe halt more points and draw his fifth per­"That was tough watching from sonal foul in the game's waning mo­The Irish hockey team suffered a ninth place (five points in back of freshman center Adam Parsons ser­the bench," said Woolridge of his ments when a Terp victory still was two game sweep at the hands of the eighth place Colorado CoUege) and ving a tripping penalty forrole as a spectator, watching Kinggo within reach. 

Denver Pioneers this weekend, 6-5 extended their home ice winless McNamara, the Denver power playsix-of-seven from the floor. You just The area under the basket was Friday night and 9-4 on Saturday. streak to six games. rained a flurry ofshots upon the Irishhope he cools off." open enough during the second.half 
The two losses left the Irish mired in Terming his team's defensive play net. At 6: 14 HiU contributed his "lousy," Irish coach Lefty Smith second goal ofthe evening on a give­merely was stating the obvious after and-go from sophomore winger Saturday night's debacle which Andy HiUiard. The game got physical began with three. unanswered ftrst at that point and the referees were period goals at the expense of Irish forced to administer a pair ofrough­goal tender Bob McNamara. ing penalties to each team at the McNamara, who all told stopped 76 7:29 mark. Notre Dame got a man Denver shots, was continuously the advantage at 16:44 ofthe period, but victim of shoddy puck-clearing on was unable to score, and barely able the part of his defenseman and the to get off a shot as the Pioneers put effective fore-cheking of the Denver up a tenacious defense. With just 57 forwards. seconds remaining before intermis­
Taking fuU advantage of these sion, Denver's patience finally was shortcomings, Denver tallied its first rewarded when Irish winger Don goal on a wrist shot from junior cen­Lucia was whistled off for high stick­ter Andy HiU at 13:35. About one ing. Once more the Fraser-Morrow­minute later, Denver had its second Ken Berry line returned to the ice goal compliments ofthe Denver line and needed just 35 seconds for Ber­of center Don Fraser and wingers ry to add a goal to his pair ofassists. Ken Berry and Darrell Morrow. Faced with a 5·1 deficit to start the Utilizing quick passes in front of the final period, NO again came out NO net, the Fraser line added its skating, as Rex Bellomy slipped the second -and the team's third -puck by Tierney at 2:38. But this goal 47 seconds later. That goal was turned out to be merely forestalling Morrow's second of the opening the inevitable when junior winger period and signaled just the begin­Ed Beers added the ftrst of three ning for the junior winger and his Denver goals to be scored in the en­line mates. suing three minutes. Freshman 
Notre Dame attempted a come­defenseman Jim Leavins added the back 2:31 into the second period middle goal of the three, with Beers when junior defenseman John again getting credit for Denver's Plunkett. He completed five ofeight passes for 118 yards in the first two periods while Jaworski found his mark on only 9 of22. 


On the third play of the second half, Plunkett completed a 53-yard pass to King. On the next play, he 
found Bob Chandler sprinting down the left side, a step behind rookie defensive back RoyneU Young, for a 32-yard completion to the Eagles' 33. 
And two plays after that, the lead mushroomed to 21·3. Branch wrenched a pass away from Young,and lunged into the end zone. 
Jaworski had plenty of time to bring Philadelphia back within strik­ing distance. But once again he was foiled by Martin, a linebacker who had been drafted by Oakland in the 12th round in 1977, had been cut by the Raiders, claimed by San Fran­cisco that year and then re-signed by Oakland late in the season. 
The Eagles were dying, but they were not dead. Jaworski pushed them to their only touchdown on an 8-yard pass to Keith Krepfie 61 seconds into the fourth period. Les­ter Hayes, the cornerback who had intercepted 13 passes during the regular season and five more in the Raiders' three playoff victories; was beaten on the play. It was one ofthe few times all day -and it didn't mat· ter. 
Rex Bellomy's score in Saturday's hockey g:ime wasjarfrom enough as the Irish lost 9·5. (Photo Schmidt stuffed a rebound past D< 
See HOCKEY, page 10
byjohnMacor) ver goalie Pat Tierney. But w1 






