·~ 

Irish square off with Seminoles 
.Faust says offense, 
defense back on track 

Alders punt. Hester recot,ered for a touchdotl'n. ( Pboto h)• AP) 

Gary• Alders for tbe /Jall after Mocking 
By KELLY SULLIVAN 
,\ports lf'ritttr 
Bobby Bowden anti Gerry Faust both got 
tht:ir "must wins" last Saturday, but this Satur­
~lay's meeting between thelr two school1> will 
mark the t:nd of the comehal·k trail for one 
team. 
Florida Statt: bounced hack from an early 
season ddcat w upst:t Ohio State a week ago. 
"That was a game we: ncedt·d to have," admits 
Snninok Head Coach Bowdt:n. "A loss at that 
point could have rt:ally crippkd us with the 
schedule wt:'ve got aht:ad." 
And Notre Dame crawled hack up to the 
.'iOO mark aftn two straight losses on the 
road. "I felt likt: tht: \I i<:higan Statt· gamt: 
lllrncd thing~ around for us," offers Faust. "Wt:'Vt: still got a long way to go, but wt:'rc going in the right direction again." 
But 19th ranknl FSl' and the unranked lrbh are on a collision cour~e that could spell long· term disaster for tht· loser of this contest. As t;tr a~ the players arc concerned, thl· balance of the setson hangs on the I :50 p.m. con­football program. "Playing Notr~: Dame is a tremendous benefit for us," Bowden con­firms. "Our program has now reach~:d the level where it's recognized on a national scale, but a win against Notre Dame would really put us on the map." 
Quarterback Rkk Stockstill puts the Seminoles in the endzone. He shares his coach's sentiments about the game. "Notrt: Dame knows we have a good team after we <.Ideated Ohio Statt:, and they'll ht: rt:ady for us. I look at this as a chance to move up in the polls and a chance to b~:at another established powt:rhouse." 
The 6-1, 18'i-pound seniorenjoyed tht: best 
day ofhis career against the Buckeyes. throw­
ing for 299 yards and two touchdowns. lk's a 
smart player who poss~:ses the ability to 
audible at tht: line ofscrimmag~: and attack a 
defense's weakness. 

"Stockstill picked Ohio State apart with the 
short pass~:s," Faust acknowkdges. "He r~:ally 
makes the linebackers work because he 
Sec PREVIEW, page 11 

frontation. 
"Thi' game i~ pivotal -it could show the path ofour ~cason," helievt:s Seminole wide rn:dvn lknnis \ld\.innon. "It wqJ ~how how mud1 togetherness we havt· as a tl·tm and how much we've matured.'' 
"It'~ a big, pivotal game ti>r us," echc ·s Irish trh·aptain Tony lkldt·n. "Tht· players k ··I good that we've won two games, but Flor;·ta State is a better quality tl·am than tht: ones we've hl·att:n. A win over someone like them could ht· the start ofa great year for us." 
A win for the Seminoks. howevn. would add another stronghold to an already solid 
Punters· 

Kiel faces All-American Stark in duel 
, By SKIP DESJARDIN 
Assistant Sports Editor 

LaM wel'k in Columbus. Ohio. the Florida State Seminoks were in trouble. Coming ofla 3+ 14 thrashing hy Nebraska, they were trail· ingOhioState. 7-3. with 2:'>3 remaining in the Sl'cond quarter. 
It wa~ at that precise moml·nt that thing~ 
turned around for them. Linebacker Ron lies· 
ter blocked a Buckeyt· punt and rewrncd it for 
a touchdown. Suddenly the Seminoks \\Tre 
ahead. and gathering momentum. 
<Juil'tly, Blair 1\.icl has been establishing 
him~df as a t1rst-rate kicker. lie has the abilitv 
to drive the ball more than 60 yard~ at any . 
given time. his accuracy ha~ been attested to 
many times by-virtue of his ability to drop a 
punt out ofhounds Jeep in an opponl·nt'~ ta· 
ritory. .\1oM importantly. howl·ver. he ha~ 
developed kicks that stay in the air long .enough for his teammates to prevent run­
bacb. 
But for alll\.id's ability. he will he hard 
pressed to match up with Florida Stale's Rohn 
Stark. 
"Dadgum thank goodne~~ he's around," I'SU 
coal·h Bohhy Bowden says ofStark. "lk i~ a 
very valuahk tool t(>r us. When we've been in 
trouhk we've htTn ahlt: to count on Rohn 10 
get us out 
Stark is, without nlllt'h quc~tion. thc tint·st 
punter in college foot hall. He was named to 
11rst-team All-America squads hy l'Pl. the 
l'oothall \X'riters of America, Tbe Sportin!!, 
.Veu·s and 1\.odak prior to this ~cason, and i~ an 
Academic All-Amerkan as well. 
He is the kader of the team. One of th'l' co­
captiam. SWrk nevertheless is the man whom 
the Sl·minoles look to for guidance. 
''I'm not the rah-rah type," ht· says. "ltry to 
lead hy doing. The schl·duk this year has to he 
the toughe~t ever. For me. that ml·an~ thl' 
kicking game will ht: that much more impor· 
tant." 
The imporranl· ofStark and his faknted foot 
has not gone unnoticed hy Bowden. 
"Against Louisvilk. we'rl' backed up to our 
one-yard line," the coach n:calls, "anti he 
booms a punt 61 yards to get us out oftrouble. 
That had to demoralize Louisville. It may have: 
been the play of the game. 
Stark is used to making the big plays. He 
averaged ') 1.1 yards per kick three weeks ago 
at Nebraska, breaking a school record. His 
.f'i.l yard average over the course oflast 
season established another Florida State stan­
dard. As a freshman, he booted one 7.2 yards against \-1 iami. La~t year he kickt·d onl· 6 7 
yards against Pittsburgh. The list goes on and 
on. 
1\.icl will bt· facing a karsoml· rush from the 
Seminok ddensive linemen and linl·ha1.·kers, 
a situation he i~ uscd to. The Irish punter has 
yet to han· a kick hltKkt:d. In fact. he took ad­
vantage of an awt·some rush at Arit.ona last . season and lopl·d around the left t:ntl ti>r an 
HO-yard touchdown run. 
Stark will fan· tht: rush of Irish defenders 
thc likt:s of Boh <.rahk and .\lark Zavagnin. 
wh1i havc a few hlocknl kicks of thdr own. 
But that probably Jon not worry him. 
"I really hdkn· ht· docs bt·tter under 
pressure. when thl· othn tl·am ha~ a coupk of 
peopk hl·aring down on him." Bowden ~ays. 
"lk just gt·ts the hall offsq quickly If he had 
all Jay. Idon't know that he would hc ~Ul'l'l'~~­
ful." 
In light ofthat. the lri~h might do well to lay 
otl thc kicker ju~t a littk. If he ha~ a wTaknl·s~. 
it h that he over-kick~ the coverage. '[\·am~ 
han· had o;oflll' ~ucn·~~ at running kick~ hal·k. 
"It caused ~omt· probkms in the :'llehra~ka 
game... Bmnkn admits. "Th1.·y hrokl· ont: ti>r a 
touchdown and came dose to getting anoth 
l'f. l.t:ading up to la~t wn·k'~ game.\\ e workt·d 
Sec KIE.L-STARK, page Z 


The Irish Extra -Florida State Saturday, October 10, 1981 -page 2 

Autry makes transition 
By~ JIANNUKSELA 
Sports Writer 
"Everybody asks me about the switch," says jon Autry in his qllit:t, unassuming voice. "It really isn't that big ofa change. The only dif­ference is that now, I have to pass rush." 
There's a little more to it than that, no mat· 
ter how much Autry tries to convince you 
otherwise. At its most basic, Autry's new 
defensive end position requires him to line up 
two or three yards closer to the ball than he 
would when playing at the inside linebacker 
spot he used to occupy. 
Also, his new assignment does not require immediate pursuit -he is forced to hold his position until the ball crosses the line of scrimmage, de~pite the fact that the the in· 
stincts which come from six-plus years of playing linebacker tell him otlwrwise. 
Autry now has to freeze an opposing block· er, holding him in place long enough to allow the three Irish linebackers time to react to the play and make the stop. In this sense, he is like an offensive lineman -he does the dirty work in the trenches, so that the otht.-r guys can get all the cn:dit. 
Clearly. then, there is a distinction between the position Autry has played since his fresh­man year at Fort Wayne's Snyder High School, and the one he now occupies. To hear him describe it though. one would think the dif· ference to be aln1ost negligablc. 
"Football is football," he says. "No matter what position you play, it still boils down to blocking, tackling and running. The only change really is in your assignments and 
responsibilities." According to Autry's coach, Bill. Meyers, the 
6-2, ::no-pound sophomore is having little trouble adjusting to those changes in assign­ments and responsibilities. 
"jon has obviously adjusted real well to the change -he's starting," says Meyers. "He has acceptt:d the change, and I think he: really en­joys it. He's doing very, very well." 
Autry would probably c:xperic:nce that c:n­joymc:nt regardless of where he plays, whether it be defensive end or specialty team psycho, so long as the position is somewhere: on the playing field. 
"I d{m't really have a preference for one position or the othc:r," says Autry, who is en­rolled in the: College ofBusiness Administra­tion. "I just like to play." 
Thus far, the Howard Hall resident has been 
fortunate enough to play in all hut one gam<: in 
his N<>tr<: Dame carec:r. missing only the 

season-opening win ov<:r Purdue in I 'JHO. lie 
earned a monogram for his performance, 
which included a three-tackle game against 
Navy in a back-up rok, and a t1ve·minute stint 
against the Georgia Bulldogs in the I 'JH I 
Sugar Bowl. 

Like the rest ofthe Irish squad, Autry has ex· 
p<:rienced som<: disappointment over the past 
few weeks with the slow start ofGerry Faust"s 
t1rst Notre Dame team. He also has heard the 
rumors that this is a team that still feels un­
beatable, despite its two losses. He offers a 
simple explanation. 

"A player and a team have to have a certain 
amount ofconfidence," he says. "Without 
that, you might as well not even suit up. That 
confidc:nce comes out at differc:nt levels in 
See AUTRY, page 11 


with the change. See st01}' Cit left. (Photo byjobn Macor) 

Florida State runs in the family for Kissner 
By DAVE IRWIN 
Sports Writer 
Sc:nior offensive guard Larry Kissner has a 
remedy for the: less than spectacular perfor­
mance by the Notre Dame offc:nsive unit this 
fall. 
"Actions speak louder than words," says the 
6-4, 2'5'5-poundt:r. "You can't talk about it, 
you've got to do it." 
And for the Del Ray Beach, Fla., native: there: 
will be a lot ofincentive to do it this week. 
Besides hailing from the Sunshine State, Kis· 
sner·s older brother Michael played for this 
week's opponent -Florida State. 
"That's alii c:ver heard as a kid. It was F-L·O· R-1-D-A S-T·A·T-E," remembers Kissner. 
Both Kissners had several offers to pick from after high school. Michael, however, wanted to stay dose to home while Larry decided to head for the winter wonderlands under the Dome. 
"lie wanted to stay in Florida. I didn't," the former Coach and Atblete all-American says. "I went to the best school, or at least what I thought was the best school... 
Meanwhile, thing~ didn't go too well for 
Michael at Florida State. 
"He had some bad times. They went 
through three coaches in four years," broth<:r 
Larry says of Michacl"s career at Florida State. 
"It was a mixed up program ...Now (Hobby) 
Bowden has turned that program around." 
Kissner isn't exaggerating. The Seminoles 
an: 5·1 after upending Ohio State last Saturday 
and have won 2.3 oftht:ir last 26 regular 
season games. 
Even with the prospect ofplaying another 
nationally ranked club (Florida State is ranked 
20th in the lastest AssociatedPoll), this game 
will have yet another attraction. 

"It will be the first Notre Dame home game 
my parents have ever seen me play," Kissner 
says. "My brother is really pro Florida State. 
It's a brotherly thing, but he's been giving me 
plenty ofstuff." 

Things didn't look like they were going too well for Larry Kissner when he arrived at Notre Dame:. He was recruited as a tackle but the: Irish already had people like Rob Mar­tinovich and Tim Foley (an all-American in 1979 and now a member ofthe Baltimore Colts) at that position. The coachingstaffthen dt:cided to try Kissner at center where he had to contc:nd with all-Americans Dave: Huffman and John Scully. 
After spring drills of I')80, Kissner rc:ceived 
the Hering Award as the most improved of· 
fensive player. and with Scully's graduation 
last May. it looked like the job was all Kis­
sner's. But then Gerry Faust was named head 
coach, and his offensive style needed a dif­
ferent type ofplayer at center than what Kis· 
sner"s attributes were suited for. An injury 
further compound<:d the problem, and Kis· 
sner·s name began to be heard less and less. 
But things started to fall into place. Kissner practiced at both guard positions and center this fall, waiting for a chance. When Randy El­lis injured his knee at Michigan, Kissner was ready. 
"'There are a lot ofgreat players here. I just wanted to put my best foot forward," Kissner says. "I've got a chance.! just got to try to take advantage ofit." 
The Irish didn't take advantage ofoppor­tunties in the Purdue game, losing I'i-14, as Purdue staged its own "miracle finish." But 
Kiel-Stark
' ' ' 

continuedfrom page I 
on Rohn getting lc~s distance from his kicks, but better hang time. That way our guys can cover better and prevent the long runbacks." 
Blair Kiel was one of the most highly respected high school quarterbacks in the country. Since the: time he was a young boy, howcvc:r, he also worked on his kicking. His father would snap the ball, and his mother would hold for field goal attempts. The all· American family, one might say. 
Stark, on the other hand. grew up running. He will admit freely that his tlrst love is not football. hut track and tield. He tlnished Hth in the NCAA's decathlon competition. and earned all-America honors in that sport as well. Then he passed up on the Mc:tro Con· krenu: track championships to participatt: in 
the NCAA·fiesta Bowl Drug Prevention 

Program in Phoenix. The all-American boy, one might say. 
Saturday they will match up against each other. The meeting will not be face to face. as most football matchups are, but it will be no less important. The succc:ss or failure ofeach man's team could "hang" in the balance. 
Kissner was part ofthe offensive unit that racked up season highs of 300 yards rushing and 394 yards total offense in downing Michi­gan State, 20-7, last Saturday. 
"As Coach Faust says, 'When we do break it, we're going to break it big,"' Kissner says. "We're starting to click. We're getting better and better c:very day. A team can feel that." 
The: Irish will have to feel at the top of their game this week. The Seminoles surrendered just 38 yards on the ground in 31 carriers to Ohio State, a team notorious for its "three 
yards and a cloud ofdust" style offootball. 
As for Kissner, when Ellis' knee is ready for action, he is prepared for whatever happens. "You can't look ahead. The coaches will play the best people," Kissner says. ''I consider myselfa team player." 
Florida State should see plenty of"action" from Larry Kissner and his teammates Phil Pozderac, Tom Thayer, Mike Shiner and Mark Fischer along the offensive line. 


Today"s game takes on added sig­nificance for Irish offensive lineman Larry Kissner (53). His brotber Micbael once 


A 's advance -page 10

' ' ' 
~ATURDAY, OCTOHER 10, 19HI -pagl' 5 

Explosive situation 
U.S., Israel offer support to Egypt 
CAIHO, Egypt (AI') -l'rt·~ident­lkgin. in a sqnratt· arrival state­bullet-proof limousines tlown in de~ignate llosni :\I ubarak got new ment at Cairo airport, said: "The from lsrad. as~uram:cs ofli.S. anc.J hradi support peopk of lsrad, together with the "How did it happen?" Begin asked yt'Stl"fday in his dtiJrts to c.:omplctc government, received with great .\1uharak. rdl:rring to the assassina­the peacemaking of assas:.inated satist:tction (the news) that all the tion. "It happened so fast. so last," l'rt·sic.knt Anwar Sadat. commitments taken by President Muharak replied. 
Tht· Egyptian government battled Sadat will he undertaken" by :'vlubarak has told ABC-TV's Bar-• fundamentalist :\loskm :.nipcrs \1ubarak's government. hara Walter~ there may ha\'C been ~outh of Cairo and prepared to bury Begin later met for 40 minutc:s "three or four other per:.ons" in-· sadat in strict security to protn·t with Mubarak in the prt·sident­volved in the assassination plot, in ~cores of world l<:aders who as­de~ignat<.:'s villa. Ikgin and his addition to the four previously men­Sl'mblnl for the: funeral. delegation drove from their hotd in tioned by government officials. 
The atmosphnt· was charged hy a warning from exiled leader Gen. Saadcddin Shazli rhat Cairo would bt· unsatl: t(Jr offkials at the funeral 
U.S. charges Moscow 
today, and an appeal from Iran's Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini for the Egyptian peopk to revolt and 
with forgery , blackmail 
proclaim an Islamic republic. 
But Egyptian authorities said WASHINGTON tAP)-The State States. They represent "a major. if thert· wa!i no unrest in Cairo and lkpartmt·nt said the Sovkt l 1nion little under~tood, t'it·ment of Soviet vownl to proten those arriving for frequently re!'lorts to foreign policy," it said. tht· services, including Secretary of "disinformation," forgery and black­The State Department said it Statt· Alexander M. Haig Jr., former mail in attempts to undercut prepared the study in response tore­Presidt·nts _limmy Carter. Gerald American rdation~ with ~uch quests for information from in­l'onl and Rkhanl Nixon. and Israeli countries ;ts Egypt, El Salvador and dividuals, private groups and foreign Prime \1inister :\-knachem Begin. Iran. governments. 
Haig told reportns at Cairo air­In a four-page documt·nr. the "The approaches used by :\loscow port that "Prt:sidt·nts Carter, Ford dep:trtmt·nt alkgt·d th;tt \loscow: include control of the press in and Nixon worked closely with •Tried to impliciltt· the United foreign countries; outright and par­l'n.:sidcnt Sadat to build friendship States in the death of Panamanian 
See DECEIT, page 6 
and coopt·rauon between our two leader Omar Torrijo~ l;~~t August in a countrie~. President Reagan has plane crash and in the 1979 seizure resolvc.·d to continue this coopera­of the Granu .\1osquc of .\!ceca. tion." •Used forged documcnts to sug­
In Mojave Desert 
Sadat, in 197"7 , brokc the pattern gc~t the United Statt·s plotted to of warfart· in the :'vliddk East and overthrow the government of the made a hiMorlc.: journey to lsrad to liltC President Anwar Sadat ofEgypt. 

Prison offers intnates a chance 
olft·r the hand ofpeac.:e to theJewish •Produ1.:ed ami distributcd bogus statt·. His attempt to achieve peace lJ.S. milit;~ry manuals and fabricated ByJOHN ANTCZAK The camp is a deactivated Air Force radar base that in rht· troubkd region brought him war plans designed to cn·ate ten­.4ssocialf!d Press Wrilf!r was decdnl to the U.S. Bureau of Prisons. lr has ht•t•n the Nobd Peace Prize. but also sions between the United States and operating ~inn· 1979. The inmates range in age from 19 carrwd him the emnity of hardline other countries. BOHON, California -Inmates at the Federal Prison to 6.t and the average is the upper :\Os, Story said. About Arab states. Muharak ha~ said he will •llsed :\-loscow-controlled "front Camp ncar this little desert town arc surrounued hy :\0 pert'<.:Ill arc serving tt·rm~ l(>r drug violation~. ~trive to carry on Sadat's pt·ace in­organizations" to rally opposition in t·oyotes, rattlesnakes and the trackless cxpansl' of the "Our inmatl·~ are short timers. many sent hl'fe at the itiative!>. .\1ojave -hut no walls.
\\\·stern Europe to deployment of tail end of long !'lenrcnces," Story said. "Tht·re arc no 
The oftkial .Witldle J~·ast News tht: neutron weapon and NATO A minimum-security facility, the 12-acrc prison not walls or fences to prevent e~capt·~. no towers. no armed ~txemy said Mubarak had accc:ptcd plans for theater nuclear tiJJt-e only has no walls. hut its programs enc.:ouragc many of guards. Pre~idt·nt Rca~otan's invitation to visit modernization. its inmates to It-ave the camp en·ry day. "They know wht·n· the out·ofhounds line is and very the l'nited States and discuss The rt·port, entitled" Forgery, Db­Its supnintendent, Bill Story. says it has an atnHis­few go past it." bilatt'fal rdations and the Mideast information, Political Opnations," pherc that sets it apart from the turhukncc of other "We're supposed 10 be beyond that point (of trying 
~uuation. The trip is tcntativdy set said thest· typt·s of at·tivitks scek to prisons. to escapt·) when wt· come here," said Tom Palmer, 2H, liH· t·arlr next )Tar. "dbcredit anu weaken" the Linitt·d · "This place is totally diffcn·nt from any joint l'n· ever who is serving thrn· years for hank rohhery... Any one of hl·ard of," said 
us could walk away, catt·b a ridt· into toW!'). But tht· bank rohbcr 
respon~ihility of not Joing that is the part I rt·ally like Donncl Tortora. SATURDAY ~it.~~\\tlti~~: about this plan·." "il. "It's good 
Oth<.:r things 10 like indude fiw-day-a-week visiting therapy. We're: :::m:ir~i~liifli1r1 FOCUS privilc:gcs l(>r rdarivt·s and f(>ur-day furloughs cvc:ry out hnc miles three months. from anything. It The pri~oners wear civilian clotht·s, often just shorts gives us a chance to rdkct on what we're going to Jo bec.::msc of the heat. They may eat in a mess hall or at 
with our lives when we get out of here. out~ide tabks. Hut the: facility offers more than just an opportunity Prison ~ports teams often play teams from the to refleu or get a tan by the swimming pool. Story, 41. 
~urrounding area, as in a recent softball tournament that calls the camp a "halfway halfway house." drew tt·ams from Edwards ;md Boron. Inmate:., also 
Some of thl· camp's 22.3 convicted bank robbns, served as Little: League baseball umpires in Boron. seven drug dealers and t·im men hold outside jobs. last June:, miks away. I') inmates complt-ted final exams at Barstow Com­· "We do have escapes on on·asion," Story said. 
munity College -U milt's away. The prisoners go to "Inmates can s<.:t up a ridt· on the highway and some "go classt·s unaccompanied, in a bus drivc:n by an inmate. 
out on furlough and fail to return." ''Obviously we sneen those planning to enroll in the 
The last escape occurred in late \1ay, and a wt•ek college courses." Story said. "No men with records of 
hd(Jrc that an inmate failed to return from furlough, escape. sex olfenses or assault are permitted to par­Story said. Such incidents ot-cur about Olll'e a month. ticipate in the program." 
However, Story emphasized that the prisonns se111 to Although the atmosphere is relaxed. no one can just the facility are not considered dangerous. lie around. he said. Everyone must work. Tht•rt· have also been occasions of drug drops along Inmate!> run the camp's fire department. Haifa dozen the road to tht· prison. However, the superintendent prisoners spt·nd Saturdays at a volunteer projt·ct to said there is no great drug probkm at the camp. 
renovate the Boron Community .\1usc:um, and :\0 "I like the desert," Story said, "particularly after com­others have re:-gular jobs as maintenance men at Ed­ing from (the fcueral penitentiary in) Atlanta. I don't wards Air Force Base, landing site of the space shunk. miss the stabbings and killings." 
tlve miles to the south. lnmat<.:s also earn money repairing alternators and And, oddly enough. Story said the desert heat isn't gt·nerators, mainly for nearby military fadlitit·s. much of" probkm. When temperatures soar during the 
The proximity of Edwards brought the entire prison summer, work crews arc qtllcd in. And there is always staff and inmate population out to a desert butte last the pool, a gift from the Air Force. April to cheer as the space shuttle Columbia landed smoothly on the desert floor. "I don't like to publicize that too much," he said, but 
"It came almost directly above us as it made its quickly noted that a number of inmates art· taking sweep to go to Edwards," Story said. lifesaving courses outside the camp. 
Scott Gruoms' little friend oh1•icms~)' u•as enjoying last nigbt's pep rail)', but be did not seem to enjoy tbe pbotoJ!,rapber's atten­tion. ( Plmto /Jl'}ohn .\facor) · 







News Brie.b_ 
by The Observer and The Associated Press 
A 21-year-old Notre Dame student was un­
harmed in a sexual offense incident about 6:30 p.m. Monday as she jogged along St. Joseph Lake. According to Notre Dame Security, a man ran behind the student, reached under her clothing and made an obscene remark. Security officers described tl:Ie man as 5 ft'et H inches tall, weighing 140-1 50 pounds, having brown hair and brown eyes, and wearing a white t-shirt and red jogging shorts. -The Ob­
server 
An undergraduate student has reported 
to 

Universty officials that he witnessed an attempted rape last weekend on Saint Mary's Road. The student told officials he was walking along the road about l a.m. Saturday or Sunday when two young men grabbed a woman walking in the area and pulled her toward woods at the side of the road. The student reported that the pair ripped a sweatshirt off the woman's back and pulled her to the ground. The student intervened, he told officials, but was thrown against a tree by the assailants. The student said the men fled the area and the woman ran toward Saint Mary's College. Although the witness said the woman was wearing a Saint Mary's sweatshirt, it was not known if she was a student there. The assailants were described only as bdng younger than college age. -The Observer 
An investigation was under way yesterday into the cause of a radiation leak at a nuclear power plant in northwest England that contaminated milk supplies within a two-mile radius of the plant, officials said. But a spokesman for British Nuclear Fuels, the government-controlled agency that monitors Britain's nuclear plants, said the leak posed "no health hazard." The plant in the county of Cumbria near the Irish Sea was shut down for 24 hours Sunday after it was determined the plant was emitting about 300 . times the normal daily release of iodine-131. The plant was operat-: ing normally yesterday. -AP 
Scientists said yesterday that an earth tremor 
and a flash of light seen 100 miles away a week ago were probably caused by a meteor falling to Earth in East Germany. Two seismic stations in the western sector ofBerlin reported a shock of3.5 on the Richter scale early Oct. 2. The East Germans have made no com­ment. The Richter scale is a measure ofground motion as recorded on seismographs. Every increase of one number means a tenfold increase in magnitude. An earthquake of3.5 can cause slight damage in the immediate area. "Everything points to a natural cause," said Harro Zimmer, chiefof the Wilhelm Foerster Observatory. -AP 
A2-year-old Bronxboyshot his 3-year-old cousin in the right ear lobe with a rifle their grandmothc:r allegedly borrowed to protect herself, police said. Police said the younger child tound the gun in a closet Thursday morning, and while he was tampering with the trigger, tht weapon discharged. The children's grandmother, Betty Reid, 61, "·as charged with illegal possession ofa dangerous weapon. reckless endangerment and endangering the welfare of a minor. police said. She was ordered to appear at a court hearing next week. Police said she told them she had borrowed the gun, a .22-caliber rifle, to protect herself from neigborhood drug users. -AP 
With the help offriends and neighbor~. a young 
widow from Holyoke, Colo. didn't miss a beet this harvest. Linda Heermann. whose husband died in a motorcycle accident in July, didn't think ~he could handle the harvest of ;oo acres of~ugar beets without him. So the ;2-year-old widow placed an ad seeking help in the newspaper lwre. The response was heartening. About 200 volun­teer~ spc;nt Wednesday and Thursday trudging through the chilled t1dds to harvest tht· crop. "\X'hat would have taken I0 days to two weeks anJ cost more than sI'5,000 in trucking alone, was finished in aday and a halL" said \Irs. Heermann. "I almost had tear~ in my eyes," she said. "It was beautiful. The people: in thb community are so nice. A small town has its ad\ antages and this is one of them." -AP 
Ninety to ninety-five percent ot all por­
nographic material in the country b manufactured by organized crime. the director of the National Obscenity Law Center said at an Anti-Pornography Day rally in Indianapohs yestnday. "All the big ligures in crime in this country are in the porno business." said Paul .\kGt.'ady. dirn.:tor of till' ;\it·\\ York-ha~eJ n·nter. ,\-lost Metropolitan cities like New York or Los Angdes have pornography controlled hy organizl'd crin1l·." \ll'(ieady wa~ one of ~everal law cnforcl'ment and anti-obscenity l'Xpl'rt~ who participatt'l1 in the ral­ly, sponsornl by thl' Indianapolis Baptist Tcmpk. Thl' rally drew more than 1,000 pn>plt· to Monument Circle. \,1ort' than halt the participants werl' ~chool chiklren. -AP 
Mostly cloudy with a ~light chann· <If rain today and tonight. Cool with dw high todav in the low 60 t ~ anJ iuw tontght in the low to mid -Hl~ <:ontinunl cool tomnrww with the hi.gh in the low to mid (1lb. J'ht· challtT of rJin b 20 pl'rcent both today and tonight. -.41' 
Bo_x (j. Notr~ D..zme, IN --t(J5 5(J 
1 ==============================S='a=t=u=rc=l=ay='=(=)=c=t<=>b=e=r==l0=,==19=8==l===p=a=g=e=4~/, 
Observing some changes 
At the midway point in this year's Notre Dame home football schedule, Tbe Observer welcomes alumni and visitors to campus. To the casual observer, all seems pretty muctf unchanged on the campus scene, except, perhaps, for the construction of the mammoth new Stepan Chemistry Hall on the former grassy area be­tween O'Shaughnessy and the old fieldhouse. 
Likewise, to the casual and infrequent reader, The Observer also seems basically unchanged from the product we published last year at thi~ time of the season. 
In the following few paragraphs, I'd just like to take you behind the headlines and copy for a moment to reveal what we've been doing to improve our service to our readership. 
As we prepared to embark on our 1Sth anniversary year of publication the editorial board ofThe Observer identified several objectives for the upcoming year; ob­jectives that we hoped would lead to a visually and jour­nalistically improved newspaper. 
Perhaps the most obvious of these objectives has already been achieved -the addition of theAssociated Press Laserphoto service to our photo mix. The impetus for moving ahead on this front came last year when we reviewed the results of a special market research 
study of The Observer's subscribers would frequent­readership. Two of the most ly receive papers in bunches deficient areas in Observer of three· or four -many coverage, the scientifically days late. selected sample of our In terms of design, The readers reported, were ·observer has taken steps to national-international news make our product much and the content of our more easily read and in­photos. After considering formative. The biggest step the problems and the pos­in this direction came early sible solutions, \Ve decided in the publication year when to kill two birds with one we moved our "Today" page stone and enter into an from a floating position agreement with the AP for inside the paper to the posi­the use of their laserphoto tion it now occupies daily ­service. on the inside of the back 
Cost considerations and page of the papt~r. difficulties with the installa-Graphically, we increased tion of a laserphoto receiver the width of the "Campu!'>" 

hours at the dining halls at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. 
Our circulation department is still working on ~ut­ting the delivery time to the dining halls with the ob­jective of getting the newspaper in all dining halls by 
11:30 a.m. and to all drop locations by 12:30 p.m. 

Major steps have also been taken to upgrade service to our mail subscribers. We are switching from a manual label and. sticker applications system to automated "addressograph" distribution. Not only can we cut our costs oflabelling and slash preparation time from eight hours to three, but we are now sending our newspapers directly to the 12 or 13 regional postal cen­ters that can distribute them most efficiently to sub­scribers. Under the old system, papers were simply mailed out in zip code batches, and due to the overlap­
ping of zip code and postal 
. . Cage results_-pag~!­

eenter· zones, some of our 


in our office caused us to traverse paths never traveled before by any other college daily in the nation. The result of our determination and perserverance >vas a unique agreement re-ached in late August that permits The Obsert•er to "share" laserphotos with The Suutb Bend Tribune on a daily basis. · 
We believe this ha-.; markedly enhanced both the quality and amount of national and international news coverage in The Observer. as well as the variety and quality of our phutogr;tphic mix. 
Improving service to our on-campus and mail-out readns has abo been one of our chief objectives. \\'e have taken dramatic steps in both areas to reach our goals. 
First. 10 assure bcncr priming quality and more time­
ly and dflcient pro~·essing. Tbe Obsert•er has changed 
ib printing contrador. Our new printing service -
Lakeland Gmphic~ in Niles..\1ich.. -pledged to im­
prov<.: the consistency of print 4uality as well as the d­
lkicncy of pre~s runtime and delivery back to campus 
in plenty of time for distribution during the lunch rush 
The_Ohs_erYer 
/)esignl~ditor. . .. \1ikt: \1qnk nes(f.!,Jt.·lssistaul~" ........... Tim ~edr l)'fJeseller.. . ....... llruc~ Oakky 
\'ell'S l:,'tlttur ...... .. Tim \ crcdlotti Copy l:"ditur.... .. ..... Paula ( ;rovt:!'> ,\jmrt.,· ('upr blitur.. ........... Chrb :\t.:cJlc~ \)•stems Coutrol .............. Brut:<..' 1.. laklC.:) 
.vn Ouy /;'di/or.... . Kar~n \1l' \lahon .4tl /Jesll{ll . .. .. ...... Fr:m & \tan PbntugrtijJIJer . . ........ .John .\bcor (illl'SI AfJ{Jl'lll'll11ft'S .... l'H:. 
Rarhara :\nn 
\1U1~L:hiL'' 
\1orm:a'-; Si-.tL·r The Dev11. pa"'~in~ h). pu~tu}t,tl·t.l "I:\ l'll trom hLII dnlh il tJh..t: Hs 1111agt 
---.__j 
Ld1/or-ilt·Chief...... ......john .\lcGrarh 
,\f'l{'S l:.'ditm· ..... . ......Tim \'crccllotti
The Uhst·rz.·er is an independenr nt"w~papt-r puhlJ-.hed h:. the -.IudnH-. <lf the .Veu'Y l:'ditur... ....... Kdli Flint
Umvers1ry ol Notre f?arnt" duLac and Saint ,\f:.lry's CoJl<.. ge l1 d()('-. nor nc·, t''>mh reflect the poltoes Ot the admmtS'tratlon of t"lther 1(1S{J{Utilm. nl(' llt'W' 1-. ft'Jl"rtt'd Spurrs l:'tlitor ...... . .....\lil.:h;.~el Ortman as accurar~ly and as ob]t"Ctlvely as possible Editorials teprl'-.enr rlw •JpinJon 1Jf a Features Editor.... . ........Anrhony \\'alwn ma]onty ot tht" Editorial Board. Commt"ntanes, opinion'>. and lenn-. arc the· view" ~~we Ewcutil'(' l:'ditor. ........ \lary Agne~ Carcv of th_etr authors. Column space is available to all members of th<" Lommuntt\. ~1nd SMC Neu•s Editor.......... .........Cathy Dornanicv the tree expression of varying opinions on campu~. through letters. 1-. (·rlloui·ag('d. 
activities column by appmximately SO percent and added three daily features to the page. First. we have welcomed the comic strip, "Simon" -b}' Notre Dame juniorJeb Cashin -to the page. In adJition to "Simon," we have bt·en publishing each evening's tekvision lis­tings (also prompted by reader reactions in the market research survey). Finally, "Today in History" has bcgun appearing in the lower portion of the Campus column on a space-available ba~is. Reader resonse to the changes has been positi\T. 
We feel that the progress we have made this year ha~ 
heen considerable. That's not going to dissuade us from 
seeking further improvement. \X'l're there more space 
and tim<.:. I'll tdl you more. hm game time i;, approach­
ing. Bdore I go. let me a~~ure you that Wl' rakl' our 
rt·sponsihility to st·rn-you very ~eriously. l.l'l us knov. 
what we can do t6 further that ~ervin'. 



P/J"Io Lditor .. 

Business .\lmulf:!,er ..  . Hidt · .IJppol,t  
Crmtrolkr-.... ..  .Jut· \lultlur  
Ad1•ertising J1ana,~~o-r.  . ..... \lark Llli~  
Procluctton .Wan<lf:!,er....  \'lichad .\!<Jnl.  
Circulation J!:'mager.  ...Tom :'l!acl.ennan  

------· -------------------------­The Observer Saturday, October 10, 1981 -page 5 
Economic comeback 


Latest figures reflect upswing 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Inflation at th~ wholcsak level llippnl last month to th~ low~st rat~ in more than thr~e yc:ars, with stab!~ food ~osts and falling car prices holding the uv~rall rise to an annual pac~ of just 2.2 p~rc~nt. the gov~rnment r~port~d yvsterday. 
Th~ only cloud in th~ report wasn't vc:ry dark: a mod~st 0.6 p~r­n:nt monthly increase in ~nergy prin·s. That was the first such in­ereas~ aft~r four months of declin~. 
And th~ report's figure~ on food prices at the earlk~t stages of production strongly indicated that there will he mor~ good news for shoppers in coming months. 
s~·ptcmbcr's seasonally adjusted 
0.2 pnn:nt gain in the Produc~r Price lnd~x for finishnl goods would mean a 2.2 percent yearly in­creast· ifwholcsak prices rose at the .,ame pace for 12 straight months. 
The Sept~mher figure, down just 1olightly from August's 0 .. ~ percent, was th~ lowest since the 0. I per~ent increast· in AuguM 197H. 
Th~ PPI. ~ompill·d by the Labor lkpartmc:nt. has now risen 0.4 per­cent or k·ss in each of the past live months, and analysts are saying thert· is no indication of any big surge before the end of the year. 
The index has risen at an annual rate of 7.(1 percent 1o0 far this year, wdl bdow last yt·ar's I I.H pncent rate. 
Another principal government in­tlation measure. thl' Consumer Prin: Index, has been running slightly higher than the Producer Price In­dex. hut so far it also is below its 19HO levd of 12.-1 percent. 
The PPI, which measures the prices ofgoods at an earlier stage of delivery, is often a good gauge ofthe direction consumer pric:es will move. 
September's PPl in~;rt·ase probab­ly would have: been as much as one­half percentage point highc:r If not for an auto and light-truck price drop due to liquidation at the end of a model year, said Donald Ratajczak, a privatt: economist who specializes ifl producer prices. 
But he also nott:d that the index for intermediate: materials. supplies ;md components rose only 0.1 per-
See INFLATION, page 6 

~a~~ of social space 
mtttates concern 
By MARGARET HANK 
News Staff 
For sc:vcral years the students and 
members of the administration have 
discussed the problem of social 
space on campus. 
The halls and party rooms serve as 
the center of social life on campus. 
Howcvt:r, studt:nts arc voicing a 
need for places other than 
Lafortune or the dorms. 
According to Student Activities DirectorJames McDonnell, students arc not being specific with regard to those needs. 
"All ofour facilities at Notre Dame 
compare equally to those of other 
S('honl~ with the exception of a 
modern student center. One dif­fi(·ulty with trying to find a solution to this problem is that the students arc not definite in their needs and wants," McDonndl statt:d. 
Scn:ral sugg~·stions have het:n of­fered. According to Student Union Director Hill Lawler, "A new, multi­usc student ct:ntcr should built, 
rather than spreading out the ac­
t===Ihe Obset:Ver===~ Position Open 
as Today Page Coordinator 
*pa1b pos1t1on
*baytlffi€ WORk* 1/2 houR Oa1ly * Oeb1cateb WoRkeR *Gall kelll at 8661 
ROLLING 







STOlES 
Special Guest:SANTANA Tuesday -December 1, 1981 * 7:30p.m. Pontiac Silverdome * Pontiac, Michigan 
$1.00 OFF! 


All Rolling Stones a.nd Santana albums a.nd Upes now at both River City Records 
Limited number of package tickets now on sale at River City Records 50970 U.S. 31 llorth 
For more information call 277-4242 

tivitics in separate buildings." 
Lawler explained that a modern student center should accomplish three things. It should incorporate a large auditorium and well equipped game room. It should also offer al­coholic, as well as non-alcoholic, beverages. Finally, it should give the students a chance to get away from their studit:s. 
The university has offered sup­port to two ventures designed to im­prove the campu!-> social life, Chautau4ua and the Oak Room Cafe. According to :\tcDonnell the response to these has not been overwhelming. "They (the ad­ministration) just don't seem to be what the students want," he said. 
Tht: Priorities And Commitmt:nts for Excellence committee is assess­ing the strengths and needs of the liniversity. A new Mudcnt center is one of the subjects of the Investiga­tion. If PACE finds the need both .\1cDonncll and Lawler agree that the University and alumni will aid in providing it for the students. 
The Observer (USPS 598 920) IS published Monday through Fnday and on home football Stiturdays, except during exam and vacation penods. The Observer IS published by the students of Notre Dame and Samt Marys Col­lege. Subscriptions may be purchased 
tor $25 per year ($15 per semester) by wnung The Observer. P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame. Indiana 46556. 
The Observer 1s a member of The Associated Press. All reproduction nghts are reserved. 
Second class postage pa1d at Notre Dame. lnd1ana 46556 

ShelleJ' Obermiller, the captain of /be Irisb cbeerleaders, leads that creu• during last nigbf's pep ra//J• at Stepen. (Photo hyjobn Jlacor) 
•Benefit "Country & Western" Dance : :for Handicapped Children of "Reins Of life'C 
• SARGE'S SllVER DOlLAR • 
• 3602 Western Ave. ••• Tuesday , October 13 7 pm •• • donation Sl.OO • 
• sponsored by: St. Joseph Valley Hairdressers • • Association • 
• for tickets: 277-3106 232-4717 • 
-------------------------~~­
SUBSCRIBE NOW! Ihe Obset:Ver 
It Only Makes Sense that a newspaper run by students for the students would have the best inside coverage of Notre Dame sports and news. 
• 
After All, The Fighting Irish Players are students just like· us. Our reporters eat, study, and live with team members--and we know more than any "city newspaper about the inner workings of the Irish athletic machine. 
.\lake checks payahk to: The Observer

r.---------------,
• and mail to: P.O. Box() I 
I Notre Dame. IN 46";')61 
1 D Enclosed is S22 for remainder of 1981-82 I1 year. I 
I DEnclosed is $1 2 t<>r remainder ofsemester.I 
I. I
I Name................................................................................. . 
• I I
Address 

I City...................................... State ...................... Zio ........ . 
~ , : 
~ ~ ~.~ 

.~
, 
}. 
.. 
.. 
·,f 


r-----Rmsn~K-----, 
t ST. RD. 23 at BITTERSWEET tt t 277-3143
IWelcomes all N.D.-SMC students, faculty, graduates, I ' friends. . dRib t
' SPECIALIZING IN: Hickory Smoked Ribs an tf Tips, Broasted Chicken, Broasted Potatoes, f Sandwiches. and Pizza. t 
, HOURS: Tues. thru Thurs. lla.m.-9 p.m. t ' Fri. lla.m.-lOp.m. Sat. 4 p.m.-10 p.m. t 



L----~~~~~------
Oakat t3urW 

R£STAURAKT 
1212 s. 9uttcweed. Seufk 'Baed ~ 289-1616 
ainily dining at reasonable price 
Steak dinners & Seafood Live Music houres d'ouvres served ~ 9-12 p.m.-Fri. -Sat. Happy Hour 4-6 p.m.--Mon.-Fri. 

Ironwood on the 


The Observer -Sports Saturday, October 10, 1981 -page 6 
Years of research 

Alllerican scientists win Nobel 
STOCKHOLM, Sweden (AP) ­Two Harvard researchers who showed that sight stimulation in in­fancy is tied to future vision and a California professor who demonstrated a kind of division of labor in the brain won the 1981 Nobel prize in medicine yesterday. 
Canadian-born David H. Hubcl, 55, who is a naturalized American, and his Swedish colleague at Har­vard, Torsten N. Wiesel, 57, will share the honors and half the S180,000 equivalent cash award with Dr. Roger W. Sperry, a 68-year­old American who is a professor at California Institute ofTechnology. 
The award announced here by the Karolinska Medical Institute Nobel Assembly was the first in this year's series of Nobel prizes to be an­nounced and marked the eighth consecutive year that American recipients have dominated the award in medicine or physiology. 
Last year's medical award went to three immunologists -Venezuela­born Harvard professor Baruj Benacerraf, retired Maine research­er George D. Snell and French scien­tist Jean Dausset -all of whose work was important in the field of genetil!s, organ transplants and the fight against many chronic diseases. 
The 20 years of work by Hubel and Wiesel "represent a breakthrough in research into the ability of the brain to interpret the code of the impulse message from the eyes," the Karulinska awarding assembly said. The Harvard pair found that the capability of the visual system to interpret images is developed directly after birth and that a prerequisite is for the eyes to be exposed to varied visual stimuli. 
"It is only a slight exaggeration to say that what we see today, in other words, how we perceive the visual world around us, depends on the visual experiences we had during the t1rst stages of our lives," the Karolinska committee said. "Ifthose are dull and distorted -for ex­ample, through errorsin the lens sys­tem of the eye -it may lead to permanent impairment of the brain's abiliity to analyze visual im­pressions." 
The Harvard professors found that a step-by-step process is involved in transmitting information from the 
Choice seating still available Tickets now on sale at 

ACC Box Office Also available by mail-with ct.eck or money order First Source Bank payable to: Robertson 's-South Bend & Elkhart Notre Dame-Barry Manilow Show Elkhart Truth 
Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 Suspended Chork in Elkhart 
You must enclose a self-addressed, stamped envelope. 
St. Joseph Bank State number and price of tickets desired. 

$15./12 50 Reserved at A.C.C Box OH1ce Ltmit-4 T1ckets Per Person 

c4 (/nm7lt'tUt4fim
_._ 
retina of the eye to the brain, with each step involving columns of nerve cells that receive information, analyze it according to the cell columns' specialities, and pass the 

'...marked the eighth consecutive year that American recipients have dominated the award . .. ' 
results along for further cell column work. 
An important practical result of their research is treatment of children's vision problems with spe­cial patterns. 
Brain researcher Sperry "has provided us with insight into the in­ner world of the brain, hitherto al­most completely hidden from us," the Nobel committee said. 
Sperry demonstrated that the left half of the brain is computer-like in its logical analysis, performing speaking and writing tasks, and mathematical calculations. Sperry's findings, the committee said determined that the left hemisphere figures out symbolic relationships. It is "the more aggressive, dominant 'executive' brain half in control of the central nervous system." 
The right hemisphere of the brain was once described by Sperry as "a passive, silent passenger who leaves the driving ofbehavior mainly to the left hemisphere." 
• • • Deceit 
continuedfrom page 3 
tial forgery of documents; use of rumors, insinuation, altered facts and l!es; use of international and lo­cal front organizations; clandestine operation ofradio statipns; exploita­tion ofa nation's academic, political, economic and media figures as col­laborators to influence policies of the nation," the report said. 
It claims the United States is the primary target ofthese activities but that Moscow is devoting increased resources against other nations. 
A State Department official who briefed reporters yesterday was asked whether he could give as­surances that the United States had never engaged in similar activities. 
He said he could not talk about 
U.S. intelligence operations but added that American activities "are limited and sharply circumscribed" because ofcongressional ov<:rseeing and other factors. 
Reminded that the Senate Intel­ligence Committ<:e in 1975 impl­icated the CIA in a number of assassination attempts against foreign leaders, the official refused further comment. 
The State Department distributed some 14,000 copies of the report to news organizations and other in­terested parties w t orldwide. The ob­jective, the official said, was to heighten public awareness about the alleged Soviet activities. 
The repon cited Soviet disin­formation and propaganda activities concerning Iran and El Salvador as examples of Moscow's efforts to un­dercut American policies. 

• • • Inflation 
continuedfrom page 5 
cent in September -the smallest gain in four years -including a 3 percent drop in prices for inter­mediat<: foods and feeds such as flour that later is made into bread. 
In addition, prices for crude foodstuffs and feedstuffs -such as the wheat that mak<:s the flour ­declined 2. S percent. 
"That suggests a good possibility that we can go through the next couple of months with a couple minuses in the food component" of the finished goods index, said Ratajczak, director of Georgia State University's Economic Forecasting Project. 
Energy prices probably will con­tinue to rise in coming m t onths, he said, but he added that he expected that category to remain "relatively well-behaved." 
"We don't sec any more sig­nificant shocks," he said. 








Sports Brie/§ 
by The Uhu•rt•a and Tht' A.r.roaated Prt•r.r 
Chicago Cub presidentAndn:w McKenna yestcr· day flatly denied published reports that Philadelphia Phillic:s :'v\anager Dallas Green has accepted a contract to become vice· president and general manager of the Cubs. A copyright report in Friday's editions ofthe Wilmington Newsjoumal stated that Green agreed to a lucrative, five-year pact on Sunday. The Philadelphia Daily News also reported yesterday that Green had accepted a "lavish contract oft'cr." The Newsjournal said Green at first balked at making tht: move, partly because the difference in salary would not ·have bet:n worth it. A new offer, including numerous fringe bendits, was impossible: to refuse, the paper said. -AP 
"Skate with the Irish" on Sunday at the ACC. Following the Notre Dame hockey team's pre-season scrimmage against Illinois-Chicago Circle ( 2 p.m. faceoff), fans will bt: per· mitted to skate for free with the Irish players. The team will also be available: fo autographs afterwards. All fans will be admitted for free and receive a team picture. The Irish open their 1981-82 season next weekend at the ACC against York University ofToronto. -The Ob· sen,er 





Classifieds 
·--·FOOTBALL 
NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE 
NATIONAL CONFERENCE 

East  
W  L  T  Pet.  
Ph•ladelph•a  5  0  01.000  
Dallas  4  1  0  .800  
St. LoUIS  2  3  0  400  
NY Giants  2  3  0  .400  
Washington  0  5  0  000  
Central  
Mtnnesota  3  2  0  600  
Tampa Bay  3  2  0  600  
DetrOit  2  3  0  .400  
Green Bay  2  3  0  400  
Chicago  4  0  .200  
West  
Atlanta  3  2  0  .600  
Los Angeles  3  2  0  .600  
San Franc1sco  3  2  0  600  
New Orlea.ns  4  0  200  

AMERICAN CONFERENCE 
East 

W L T Pet. M1am1 4 0 1 .900 Buffalo 3 2 0 600 NY Jets 3 1 .300 New England 4 0 .200 Balt1more 0 200 
Saturday, October 10, 1981 -page 7 
Central 

Pittsburgh  3  2  0  .600  
Clnctnnatt  3  2  0 .600  
Houston  3  2  0  600  
Cleveland  2  3  0  400  
Weat  
San D•ego  4  1  0  .800  
Denver  410 8 00  
Kansas City  3  2  0  .600  
Oakland  2  3  0  400  
Seatlle  4  0  200  
Sunday's Gamea  

Cleveland at PittSburgh. 12 Los Angeles at Atlanta. 1 2 New England at N.Y Jets. 12 Philadelphia at New Orleans. 12 C1nc•nnat1 at Balt1more. 1 Oakland at Kansas City. 1 Seattle at Houston. 1 Tampa Bay at Green Bay. 1 Washington at Ch1cago. 1 Dallas at San FranCISCO. 3 Detroit at Denver. 3 Minnesota at San D1ego. 3 St LoUIS at N Y G1ants. 3 
Monday's Game M1am1 at Buffalo. 8 

Quebec at P•ttsburgh 
Ch1cago at Toronto 
Detroil at Washington 
N Y Rangers at M.nnesota 
NATIONAL HOCKEY LEAGUE Calgary at St LOUis Top 16 teama qualify for playoffs N.Y Islanders at Colorado L T GF GA Pta 
Edmonton at Los Angeles 
0 0 13 10 4 

The Observer will accept classifieds Mon· day through Friday, 10 a.m to 4:30 . p.m. However, classifieds to appear tn the next 1ssue must be received by 3 p.m. the business day prior to insertion. All classifieds must be prepaid, either in person or through the natI. 
128  104  Toronto  0  9  4  
t12  112  Vancouver  0  ,  5  3  
80 81  82 ,,.  N.Y. Islanders Buffalo  0 0  0 0  4 5  1 3  
t62 12l 106 54 t24 132­63 62  St. loUIS DetrOtt Edmonton Pittsburgh  1 t 0  0 0 0  0 0 0  6 5 7 7  2 2 4 11  
68  lOt  
Montreal Hartford  0 0  0 1  5 10  5,,  
Ch1cago  0  0  5  5  
Minnesota  0  0  3  3  
Calgary  0  0  1  t  t  
Phtlade\phla  0  0  0  0  0  
Washington  0  0  3  5  
NY Rangers  0  0  2  5  
Boston  0  0  5  7  
W1nmpeg  0  0  1  6  
Los Angeles  0  t  0  1  4  
Colorado  0  2  0  6  11  

Today'a Gamea Boston at Hanford Buffalo at Montreal 
.... 
-
3 3 
2 
2 
2 2 2 
1 
0 0 0 
0 0 0 0 

.­
.... 
PF 106 126 94 71 77 
103 
96 97 96 82 
122 123 113 
so 
PF 125 127 101 106 87 PA 53 78 117 83 149 
115' 
80 
99 
119 
109 
78 
96 106 105 
PA 83 67 145 121 145 

I 
I 


NOTICES ] 

USED BOOK SHOP HOURS WED.. SAT, SUN 9·7 CASPERSON. 1303 BUCHANAN AD , NILES 
OVERSEAS JOBS Summer/year round Europe, S.Amer . Australia, As1a. All helds $500·$1200 monthly Sightsee· 1ng. Free 1nfo W"te IJC. Box 52·\N-4. Corona Del Mar CA92625 
MORRISSEY LOAN FUND Student loans $20-$200 One percent 1n· terest Due 1n one month One day wa1t Open M·F 11:30-12.30 1n LaFonune Basement 
r

I LOST/FOUND 
LOST a two tone blue sweat 1aeket Reward. call v•nce x 1238 
I LOST MY DIAMOND RING ON SATUA· 
DAY IT IS VERY UNUSUAL 2 
DIAMONDS PLUS ONE LARGE PEARL· 
SHAPED DIAMOND. WHITE GOLD IT 
WAS MADE AND DESIGNED ESPE· 
CIALLY FOR ME I COULD HAVE LOST 
IT IN THE AREA OF THE BOOKSTORE 
OR UNIVERSITY CLUB REWARD 
PLEASE CALL JEANNE AT 1·456·t311 
IN FORT WAYNE PLEASE 
lost. Cream spnng 1acket w1th elastic wa•st, collar, and cuffs--1n m1d sept Call Bob at 3260 
lost Black pop-up umbrella 1n rm 265 1n old cham bldg..•n m1d Sept. call Bob at 3260 
LOST· TWO GOLD RINGS AT THE ROCK EXTREME SENTIMENTAL VALUE IF YOU HAVE ANY INFOAMA· TION. PLEASE CALL CINDY·314t 
Lost SMC CLASS RING (p1nk1e), 1n111als RMS Reward Call287·2405 
Lost Sum of money In EG aud or by ma•n doors of PW Call Jerry at 6774 or Jan a1 2958 
LOST Brown umbrella 1n room 366 of Old Chern Bldg Call 288·9322 
FOUND Hat last Sat . Oct 3. du,ng play at 0 Laughlin Theatre at St Mary·.r Call 288·9322 11 yours 
Wo kann man em Fass tmden? Unhtr dte Flagge 1n der Greent1eld am Samstagmorgen 
FOUND Lady s watch 1n front ot Bad1n Hall Call8593 and 1dent1ly 
ltust want to thank the person who took my 1acket from the d•n•ng nail and tned to sell II back to me I was willing to pay you tor 11. but tw1ce you never showed up If you are the same person who called up and did the same th1ng to the Qlr\ w1th the purse and the kid wrth the sweatShirt. I th1nk that I speak lor all ol us 1n say•ng that you are probably the lowest form at hfe that can BXISI 
I don I understand what you are g01ng to do w1th a 1acket like m1ne because you certa1nly cant wear et and nobody else but me would buy 11 from you II you still have my ,acket or any oi the other stull. I hope that you welt senously conseder giVIng 11 to lost & lound or arrang•ng to return II. I 
cant understand how playeng games hke thiS turns you on but your cheap thnlls have come at the expense oi others I hope that soon you w111 s•t back and rust thtnk abOut how low you have been stoop­Ing You are noth1ng but a loser 

FOR RENT 

Student housing. clean. sale. laundry. kitChen rated supe,or $100 inCludes all 291·1405 One bedroom. lurn•shed apt. near NO Newly decorated, P"vate entrance. $1 65/month. Call255·8505 or 259-4629 
Furnished House .N1ce area.. Walk to NO .J1m 3234 
ROOMMATE WANTED NOTRE DAME AVE. APTS. HAVE YOUR OWN ROOM' ON BUS ROUTE. FIVE BLOCKS FROM CAMPUS: KITCHEN. BAR. CABLE TV BE FIRST TO CALL 288·4170 NITES 


WANTED 
Two w•ld g1rls need "de to Gainesville. F1a (or general viCinilyJ lor October break. Will share $ and gas. Can leave anytime. Call Pam or Sus1e (and they'll \eave a message lor the wild g~rlsJ at 41 ·. 5236. 
Will pay b1g bucks lor 2·4 G A Navy llckels-please call Glenn at 33a7 
need "de to COLORADO Spnngs. WILL SHARE USUAL. Call MARK 288·5208 
A1ders needed anywhere along 1·57 to MemphiS area lor break. Pfease call Laura a16896 a.s.a p 
HELP! HELP! HELP! MUST get GA. s and Student llx lor GA TECH game PLEASE call Stephan•e at 434 7 to get top dollar lor your t1x 
Need 2 "ders to NYC or VICinrty \eavmg Oct 14 AM. Call Eileen 4602 or Donna 4455. 
1 RIDER NEEDED TO ALBANY N Y AREA FOR BREAK CAN LEAVE TUAS. EVE. CALL BOB 277·4097 
YO! 1 need "ders to Ph1ladelph1a I'll be leav1ng lh1s place on Oct 1 6 II you re 1n· terested. call Fran at 4385 II I'm not 1n. leave your name and number. 
Need "de to NJ/NY OR ATLANTA lor break Call M•chae\233·2969 
NEED AIDE TO ST.LOUIS ON OCT 16!1 CALL JOHN AT 3175 
PLEASE..Need "de to M1nneapolis/S1 Paul lor Oct. Break Call Helene 41-4964 
I Need a "de to Long lsland.Can leave Oct 1 4 or after J•m 3234 
Need "de to BOSTON or PROVIDENCE Oct break call Janet 4501 SMC 
RIDERS NEEDED to and irom PHILLY· NYC area Leavmg Fnday and return for USC. call 1087 
Help' G~rll,end IN TROUBLE! Need "de to Buffalo(anyone tak1ng 1·90 to NE US goes thru BuHalo)Piease call Gary at 8842 
A1de needed to Balllmore or Annapolis lor October Break. w111 share all costs. etc CALL DAVE 232·3181 
Need nde to CANTON or CLEVELAND lor break Please call C•ndy at 2917 
Need nders to Canton and along I· 77 to w Va call Tom at 1143 
Need "de to DALLAS lor Oct break LoUis 3160 


TICKETS 
Penn St. tiCket wanted please call Donna at6771 
W1ll pay top$ lor ND·USC game llckets Need 6 tickets. best location available Please call collect (7t4) 835-6505 ask lor 
Tony Herenda or Judi Carlos 

!!!..·DESPERATE..·!!! Need 2 t1x to see lnsh trounce Trojans Also double occupancy room. Oc!. 23·24. II you have either/or. When you THINK you have your BEST P"Ce, call Bob Daley COLLECT (2121 762·0242 I WILL NOT BE OUTBID! 
TOP DOLLAR FOR USC GA CALL SUE (SMCJ4889 
Urgently need 2 student or GA tiCkets lor USC Game W111 pay 1n U.S. Dollars Steve 234-t539 
DESPERATELY NEED 3 GA TIX TO FLORIDA STATE. WILL PAY SSSI ·PLEASE CALL PAULA AT 232-8301. 
································································ 
DESPERATE ALUMNI NEEDS GOOD TICKETS TO USC GAME. CALL COL· LECT (BEFORE 2PMJ: JOHN DE ROSA (213)485·1100 
PENN ST TIX WILL BUY PSU TIX OR TRADE FOR USC GAS BILL 80 212· 759-4846 
llalian GRANDMA wants to see NAVY game so do brother and parents need Grandma has plenty ol money , need up to 4 GAs call John 3623 
HELP! AILING GRANDFATHER HAS NEVER SEEN NOTRE DAME PLAY NEED TWO NAVY T\X FOR HIM AND A DATE CALL2103. 
USC GA tx needed call m1ke 3686 
PROMINENT CHICAGO STOCK· BROKER NEEDS 10 USC GAS WILL PAY SUBSTANTIAL PREMIUM CALL 
· 312·621·3799 COLLECT, ASK FOR TED 
-i 
• Jail BREAK Dad IS break•ng out ol 1a11 to see ll'le FSU and NAVY game I need two GA' s lor both games Please help Call Lynn at 6766. 
Need 2 USC GAs$$ M1ke 1 502 
: THE SMITH HILL GANG needs llckets lor Notre Dames date w1th the Tro1ans Con· s1derable money will be spent to watch the show Call M1ke 0 at 8896 ana earn 
• 
some easy bucks 

NEEDED 4 USC GAs 1n order to save my ass Call M1ck 1 178 

• 
Need USC and Navy GAs urgently Call · Ch"s 1222 


HELPIII DESPERATELY NEED GA'S FOR FLASTATE AND USC. CALL4687 SMC. 
................................................................ 
NEED 1 GA TECH GA CALL JENNY 8026 
NEED TIX FOR FSU AND USC STU· DENT OR GA CALL 1777 ASK FOR JOHND 
AHOY'! NEED 4 NAVY GAS NOW!! WILL PAY $20 EACH. CALL MIKE "'1260 
HELP!! Homestck gtrl wants to see parents who wont come unless they get G A 11x lor Navy Will pay$$$ Call Kathy 6997 
DESPERATE lor 3 G.A USC t1x Call MARK 1074 
GEORGIA TECH GAs need 2 Or 4 call ED 1068 
Need ttx tor Penn St. or fat man wtll stt on me Call B"an at 1 777 
4 GAs needed lor Navy or Georg1a Tech 
Paul x3370 
Need tnc tor Penn St or fat man wtll stt on me. Call Bnan at 1777 
WILL PAY UP TO $50·60 (OR MORE) FOR USC GAS CALL CHRIS 1222 BEFORE BREAK PLEASE!! 
happy b1nhday Jenny murtagh · 4 GAs needed lor Navy or Georg•a Tech. Paul x3370 
HELP!! I ne~d PSU tickets Will p~y buck~ and/or trade for a "de out 10 PSU. Call Fran at 4385. 

Catch The 
Need 2 GA. TECH G A s W1ll trade 2 NAVY G.A ·s or pay CASH ALEX..x693t 
Go•ng home over Fall Break? W111 pay 

Fighting
many b1lls lor your USC student ticket. Call f•tz x 3569 
• 

Need 1 N~vy student t1cket .Paul x3370 
Need 2 GA IIX _for USC-call 1625 
DESPERATELY NEED TWO USC STU· DENT TIX-BAOTHERS WILL KILL IF THEY DON T SEE GAME CALL CHRIS AT 1678 
PERSONALS r 
Congrats etc to Molly and Bnan etc from MMB and MJM etc 
RIDERS TO BOSTON. te BOSTON CLUB BUS has spaces left. $110 2-way $60 t way Returns lor USC Call J1m 1528 or M1ke 8854 
NEED A AIDE TO BOSTON. TAKE THE BUS. Call J1m t528 or M1ke 8854 


NAVY GA DESPARATELY NEEDED 

in The Observer 
IMMED WILL PAY ANYTHING Call Mike 8854 
Dear Santa. You don't have to lit'e at 
1 know rt s a b1t early. but could you please b"ng me a gorgeous guy (tall. Notre Dame to find out what is blonde. wrth green eyes.1l possible. but I'll 
hf.lppening on campus. justf~ll
take what I can get) Please b"ng h•m 1o my room (1000 Bad•n) ASAP..rm 
out the subscription form 
desperate!!I!!! Suste Mtchelle Came below, mail it along u•ith remit­
tance, andyou can have The
LOST: an adjustable copper "ng w1th lhe words real copper on the 1ns1de. PLEASE 
Observer mailed to your home. 
call Deirdre at 8013..call late 1f you can 1 rreach me at a reasonable ttme Published daily during the 
school week, The Observer will
LOST A wh1te Jade pendant tile\\ off 1ts necltlace a week or so ago PLEASE call keep you infonned ofcampusDeirdre al8013..calllate 11 necessary. 
and local news evt!nts, enter­
LEAVING FORST LOUIS. FT WORTH· 
tain you with time(y editorials
DALLAS AREA OCT 17 CAN TAKE TWO STUDENTS 256·5451 AFTER 2 
andfeatures, andsatisfy theap­
PM 

petite ofany Fighting Irish fan 
NEED AIDE TO CONN FOR OCT 
u•ith up-to-date athletic news
BREAK WILL SPLIT USUAL CALL MAUREEN 41 -4953 
antifeawres. 
THANK YOU ALUMNI HALL So be a part ofNotre Dame the first dorm to make a generous cont,but•on to The Observer-Landon Tur­1981-82. Catch the Fighting ner Fund. 01her dorms are challenged to 
Irish by subscribing now.
tallow your lead Make checks payable and send to .•.......•.•......•.................• 
The Obaerver·Landon Turner Fund P 0 BoxO .'d.fkt· ,.-ht•t. k payabk fO The Observer 
Notre Dame. IN 46556 
ant.J ntail tu. P.O. Box Q 
ENGINEERING BASKETBALL !!!!!1 
Notre Oame, IN 
s•gn-up deadline. Oct 14 call Greg 1739 46<;<;6 
To LAURA 0 IN PE · PULL1!!!! 
HAPPY Bt~DAY MONO MUAT! MARE Name 
J.J 

Are you go•ng to let a little INFEC· TIOUS MONO-NUCLEOSIS keep you from havtng tun thtS weekend? 
<:uv Slatt· Zip
Lester 

Happy Birthday Anne Thanks lor pou,ng Marc1a Hope you had a good lime Have L I .Enclo~c:d is szs for n·mainder of a safe flight Come aga1n soon• Arleen & 
the JWII·H2 academit: year ( SZZ 
Mtke 

aftl'r Septc:mh<·r :~0 ). 
Jo1n T1m Neely Sunday mgh1s at 7 on 
Enclo~c:d is SI'\ for rl"!naindt·r of
LJ nel and rehve your rock n roll past the fall St"Olt'ster ( S I 2 aft a St•p· Th•s Sunday. 15 Years Ago Today (the 
WSND AM 64 lor the Top 20 Time Tun­
second week ol October, 1966) leatu,ng songs b~ the Beatles. the Assoc•allon. the Supremes and many more! 
....~~~;;;;~;: -~~:·. ~: ~:~-;,!~ ...... I 
Saturday, October 10, 1981 -page 8 
In key matchup 



Oklahoma faces No.3 Texas 

Laura Lewi:s puts herfull effort into duncing to the Notre Dame Fight Song. (Photo byjohn Macor) 

NOW OPEN ... 
By HERSCHEL NISSENSON 
AssodatedPress 
The last time Oklahoma went three games without a victory was in 1965. The last time Southern Cal tailback Marcus Allen failed to rush for at least 200 yards was the next­to-last game ofthe 1980 season. 
Both those streaks will be on the line Saturday when lOth-ranked Ok­lahoma meets No. 3 Texas in their annual Dallas stampede while the record-breaking Allen and the rest of the top-rated Southern Cal Trojans entertain Arizona. 
For those who may be too young 
to remember, Oklahoma closed out the 1965 campaign by losing to Mis· souri ( 30-0), Nebraska ( 21-9) and Oklahoma State ( 17-16). The last two weeks of 1981 have produced a last-second 28-24 loss to Southern Cal and a 7 · 7 tie with Iowa State. 
Not only did the Sooners fumble the football away l 0 times in those two games, but when they did manage to hang onto it they averaged a mere 358 yards a game on the ground and slipped all the way to second on the national rus­hing charts. Texas, by the way, is second nationally in rushing defense. 

"Texas is one ofthe best, ifnottbe best, defensive teams in the country," says Oklahoma Coach Bar­ry Switzer. "The Longhorns may not be as good offensively as Southern California, but they arc certainly bet­ter defensively." 
Elsewhere, runnerup Penn State entertains Boston College, fourth­ranked Pitt visits West Virginia, No. 5 North Carolina hosts Wake Forest, sixth-rated Michigan is at Michigan State, No. 7 Alabama meets Southern Mississippi in Birmingham, eighth­ranked Brigham Young is at home against Nevada-Las Vegas and No. 9 Clemson entertains Virginia. 
• • • Baseball 
-
--. 
-
continuedfrom page 10 
reliever Rollie Fingers, who led the majors with 28 saves, for a pair of runs in the bottom of the seventh that knotted the score 3-3. 
Molitor's home run just cleart:d a desperate leap by Dave Winfield, New York's 6-foot-6 left fidder, who jack-knifed over the 8-foot-high wall. It was the third hit of the game for Molitor, whose leadoff singles in the first and fourth were .\1il­waukee's only hits off Tommy John until the Brewers' three-run seventh. 
Robin Yount followed with a singk off the glove of third baseman Graig Nettles that KO'd John and brought on Rudy May. Yount ad­vancc:d to second aftc:r May caught Cecil Cooper's line drive bunt in the air but threw wildly past first trying to double Yount. A wild pitch 

Travel Services Now on the Campus of St. Mary's College 
• 
Compu.terized Airline Reservations 

• 
Amtrak Tickets 

• 
Bus/limo Tickets to Chicago 

• 
Tours ~nd Cruises 

• 
Group Travel Services 



, ~source
St. Marys (219) 284-5606 ..: Travel Le Mans Hall--Lower Level tarmertv ~rf3mmf.8. n·avel 
Notre Dame Travel Office Located in Badin Hall (219) 236-2374 
moved Yount to third and he scored when Simmons laced a double up the alley in left center. 
That was more than enough for Fingers, who settled down and blanked the Yankees on one hit over the final two innings and salvaged the victory instead of his ac­customed save. 
The Yankees nicked Fingers for their two runs in the seventh on con­secutive one-out singles by Watson, Larry Milbourne, Rick Cerone and Willie Randolph. But with runners on first and second and New York threatening to sweep the series and send the Brewers home for the win­ter, Fingers retirt:d Jerry Mumphrey on a grounder that forcc:d Randolph at second and then blew a strike: past Winfidd. 
Dodgers 6, Astros 1 
LOS ANGELES (AP) -Steve Gar· vey blasted a two-run homer to cap a threc:-run first inning and Burt Hooton limited Houston to three hits for seven innings Friday as the Los Angeles Dodgers downed the Astros 6-1 to stay alive in the Nation· al League West playoff. 
Los Angeles, which now trails 2-1 in the best-of-five series, has won 12 of its last 14 games over Houston at Dodger Stadium, site of the fourth game tonight and a fifth game, if needed, tomorrow afternoon. 
Garvey, who had provided the Dodgers with their only run of the first two playoffgames with a homer off Nolan Ryan last Tuesday, con­nected on a 3-1 pitch off loser Bob Knepper to give the Dodgers a 3·0 lead. 
Davey Lopes opened the first in­ning by walking on four pitches. He was sacrificnl to second by Ken Landreaux and scorc:d as Dusty Baker slappt:d Knepper's first pitch 
for a double to left-center. Garvey followed with his homer. 
Hooton, who was originally schnlukd to ~tart the fourth gam~· of th~· scril'~ h.:t wa~ switched to thc third game aft~·r the Astros opened 






toO'Hare 
$20 

with 3-l and 1·0 wins in Houston, was seldom in trouble bdore being lifted for Steve Howe after he walked Art Howe to open the eighth. 
Art Howt:'s homer leading off the: third inning produced the only Houston run. Hooton, who walked three and struck out two, didn't face more than four batters in any inning. The Dodgers helped him by turning double plays in each of the first two innings. 
The Dodgers added thrt:t: in­surance runs in the eighth off reliever Joe Sambito, the winner of Game Two. 
Phillies 6, Expos 2 
PHILADELPHIA (AP) -Right­handt:r Larry Christenson, in his first start since Aug. 24, allowed four hits in six innings and the Philadelphia Phillies' bats came: alive Friday to beat the Montreal Expos 6-2 and avoid elimination in the best-of-five National League East Division playoffseries. 
The Expos now lead the series 2-1 and will pitch Scott Sanderson against Dickie Noks in the fourth game here at l :05 p.m. EST today. A fifth game, if necessary, is scheduled in Philadelphia tomorrow and probably would match the: opening­game rivals, Steve Rogers of Montrc:al and Steve Carlton. 
The Expos, who won the first two games of the divisional playoffs in Montreal, took a 1-0 lead in the second inning. 
Gary Carter, whose two-run homer won Game Two at Montreal Thursday night, opc:ned the sc:cond with a doubk to left. Chris Speier knocked in his third run .ofthe serit:s with a two-out single. 
The PhiIlks, howc:vc:r, went ahead 
for the first time in the: sc:rks in their 
half ofthe second. 

Gary .\1atthew~ and Keith \1oreland ~ingled and, one out later. Manny Trillo singled through the middle off Expo~ ~tarter and loser 
Ray Burri~. ~(·oring \1atthew~. Cen­tn flddn Andre D;m~on's throw 10 third wound up in th~· .\lontrcal duguut, allo\\ •ng \lordand to score to make it 2.· I. 
In tiK ~i:-;th, the Phillie~ scored twice to hoo~t their lead to+ I. 
\Ioreland opened "' ith a singk ami \\a~ rcplaced bv pinch-runner Luis Aguayo. '' ho advann·d to second on a sacrifice by Larry Bow a. 
one  Burris worked a ~-I count on Trillo hdore hew a.' intentiunallv walkc:d.  
!£AVE MIDWAY MOTOR LODGE  !£AVE MISHAWAKP. OFFICE  !£AVE BIG BEAR TOWN& COUNTRY  !£AVE NOTRE DAME  !£AVE MICHIANA REGIONAL AIRPORT  ARRIVE O'HARE  !£AVE O'HARE  way ARRIVEMICHIANA 'Uni.•..•·..· ,., · . •tee~,,, . ·,. ' . , . , REGIONAL · .·· ' · • ' . ...· ., AIRPORT ' · •. .·· .·._··• ·  <;eorg~· Yuckovich, batting for Christenson. greeted rdkver Bill Lee with his second pinch-hit single of the series, ~coring Aguayo. After l.onnit· Smith flied out, Pete  
4,4:ia.m b4.Sam H45 am · 11145 am  41XIa.m 51 XI a.m 71KI a.m <J-IKiam lllKI am  4 l~J am :i l:iam 71:iam "l:i am II I~> a rn  4:JIIam .S:lllam 7 :lll a rn <J.lllam I! :m am  .SIX Iam :14:1 o rn 7 4.S a rn lJ4.Sam II 4:1 rl rn  7 1.'1 a rn X()() d ITI Iii 1; I a rn 12 ()\) 1\oon LlKI p 111  .~IIIIa m 111:lllam 12 'lll p TTl 2 lll p rn 4lllrm  :m~~ ;l.imO  Rose singled to right. scoring Trillo. The Phillies added two more runs off Elias Sosa in the sevc:nth to make it 6-1. The Expos, in their first playoff  
- 12 45 p m I IKlpm 24.Spm :l!Kl p m 445p.m 5!Xlpm FREE PARKING  11:1pm 1:llipm 14r>pm 41XIpm 7lMlprn lJ l:i pm 'll:i p m .l:lll p m .l4:ipm bilUpm ,~:;11 pm 1114s P m CORNEROF BI'J'TERSWEET :i1.Spm :i:lllpm ~14.'1 p m KlKI p m lliiKipm 12 l:iam .W) McKINLEY . HOME '$38PICK..lJP CAll ( 219) 255-3068 FOR RESERVATIONS HOUND TRIP$3.00  series of any kind in the 1~-year his­tory ofthe franchise, picked up a run in the eighth off rdiever Ron Reed when Jc:rry White doubled, went to third on a single by Daw~on and scored on Carter·~ sacrifice tly to  
center tldd.  



The Observer __ 
Saturday, October 10, 1981 -page 9




Weekend 



Molarity 
FAI'\f ~ W1P 
Jeb Cashin 




The Daily Crossword 

13 Mishmash 
areas 
in music14 Italian 

54 Charged 
:l4 Curdle

"Helen" 
with gas

15 Backof 26 Magic lamp
58 Seize

the neck captive
59 Express 
27 Having no

16 "I Love-" 
a belief 

17 Shopping seacoast
61 Pamper 
29 A letterareas 

62 Employer 
30 Gemstonest8 Campbell 

63 -Mongolia 
31 Pen pointsof song 

64 Waterfowl 
32 Soapstone19 Rubberband 

65 Rorem an.d 
33 Plant of

21 Select for 
Beatty 
the orchidoffice 

66 Walkedon

23 Pertaining family
67 Early

to gold 38 King: Fr. 
laborer 
39 Charming

25 "-Free"­
41 European26 Oversupply capital28 Twelve· 43 River tosided DOWN the Baltic

figure 32 Mug's 
1 Burrow 45 Joins 2 Hebrew 46 Reliedcousin month 50 Change

34 Pianist Peter 
3 Isinglass direction 35 Upon: pref. 
4 Oriental 51 Render 36 Boleyn or 
cond1ment senseless 5 Serene 52 Comfort

Baxter 37 Goading one 
6 Poet's word 53 Side track 7 Pilaster 55 New Mexico

39 Saracen 40 Cover 8 Sherbet art town 
1981 by Chicago Trobune-N.Y News Synd Inc. All R1gtJts Reserved 
ACROSS 
47 Actress 
11 Frank
1 Skirt 
Diana 
.2 Dispatched

borders 
48 "-a Rose" 
14 Asian ruler

5 Pome 
49 Crowbar 
20 Stage wear

9 O.T. book 
51 Military 
22 Somewhat, 
flavor 56 Black

41 Slouan 9 Variety 57 Unit of
Indian 42 Sings in 
of eM force 10 Wvrt-60 Japanese

the Alps . shirkm statesman
44 Heavenly 
Michael Molinelli 
t>tl? YCJJ ME?.5 IT UF .'':.•."JttN"~ ( WOW,I PI[) lffAT ONCe F1£4L.LY 
-e.At> ... -"'LHo:>T {:;rDT KtLLf:J> .. ,r 
-==--~-­


Campus 
Saturday, October 10 

•9·1 
I a.m. -gl'l·togl.'ther. "tailgatl.'r rec", logan center, old and new volunteers welcome. 

•9 
a.m.-mass, for hden carroll, class of'26. for· mer t·xec director smc alum. asstl<:, regina chapel. 

•9:50 
a.m. -baseball, nd vs hradky u., jake kline field. 

•to 
a.m. -mel'ting with n11nposas, norman del· lo joio, guest compo~er, little tlu·atrt· smc. ~ponsured hy dept. ofmusic. 

•t
0 a.m.-12:30 p.m. -open huu~l', st. edward's hall. 

•tt 
a.m.-\ p.m. -alumni hospitality, lihns, in­formation, refreshm<:nts. glel' cluh will sing at noon. north doml' at:<.:. 

•t
:50 p.m. -!ilOthall, nd vs !lorida stall', horlH:. 

•7
p.m.-meeting, photography club, I 0-i o'shag. •-.9.1 I p.m. -film, "the hand wagun". <:nginct-r­ing aud., sponsored hy film dub ofnd. 

•H 
p.m. -play: "getting o111". o'laughlin aud., ~ponsor<·d by nd/smc til<."at n·. 

•9 
p.m. -homl'l.:oming dann·. century Ct'n\l'f, student~ and alumni. 

•11 
p.m -ont'·at'l play. sugar nwuth sam dmd tlallC<'/10 mon•. wash. hall hasemt'nl. sponsort'd by nd/smc lab tlwatn· production. 


Sunday, Octolwr ll 

•1 
:~0 p.m. -llH'l'Ling, -urh;m plunge, mt·morial library aud. 

•2 
p.m-socn·r, nd \'s wbcon.,in.ca.rtit'f lidd. 

•2 
p.m-t:onn·cr. .!'itlr arllli\. cornnu·mor;uin of o'laughlin aud.. musk of norman ddlo joio, o'laughlm aud. 

•7 
p.m -UHll'LTl. notrl' dame ordK·stra. ~nK lillie thealrL· 


Toda.J' in History 
1 od:ry's highlight 111 hbwry: 
In I 'J l I. revolutionaru:,., under ~till Yat-Scn over· threw thL' :\1anchu [)~ nast\ in China. 
In . ')70. tv.o masked llll'll kidnappn· <,?udwc !..thor .\lini,ln' l'icrn· l.orl'orlt' "' \\,-,,.. •I l k ''a~ to unci .lead .1 '' lTI; l:un 
-· 

. 'Yt:XI 5TIIY 8KIAJG. VOl/ 
HNF·T/1'1£... 
SCO/ic. 
/ YlwlF~:~o 
X>HNY ... I 
~=~~~­
r...,) 

WAVE IT f'1?o</t>f 
;'\' 
['LL GIVE IT I'IY /ILL ,Jilf.  L-..o  
D  
GOCtJ lt:>Y  
, H(N lifl/ ·o. I  

CHEER . 1 CHEEf? iCif t:</) ;:,.,MERJ Jxyttt£ J 
~~~E 11Ll . .. 
l 




TO HT 

11()11!(?f_,()l:liIll) .,.., jitc:.cl§~ l-\_:)1'(,. 
at Century Center JtNx 1s rHE BAN[· 9-1 am 

Buses leave main Main Circle every ha1; :lOUr Tickets at door only 54.00 includes a chance to win a uip 
to F DA for 

t---.,.----------­
hers in the division in the first half of the split season, defeated the second halfchamps in three straight games to snare the title. (AP photo) 


Outlook bright for FSU after improvements 
1S~orts
lP----¥-------------~----_,_~~~~·-·~--·-­
'Sportsmed Weekend' features Bill Rodgers 
~ Hy BRIAN REIMER 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame students spending the first weekend of <ktoher break in the South Bend area have the chance to participate in a major sporting event: a ten kilometer road race. The Sports Medicine Program and the lkalth Awarent:ss Center of St. jost:ph's Medical Center are co­sponsering tht: event, which will feature four-time Boston Marathon champion Bill Rodgt:rs. 
Dean Reinke i~ the Din::ctor of Sports Mt:dicine at the hospital. lk hopes that the race, in conjunction with the "Sportsmed IOk Wet:kend" (running from the 16th to the 18th), will motivate people to take an active role in the sports world. "We live in a spectator town," he claims, "where people enjoy watching Notre Dame and Chicago teams in action. We tend to be passive, whereas people in towns like San Diego are active." Though tht: climatc in South Bcnd may not en­
courage athletics, Reinke feels that there is ground for improvement. 
"We have one of the most ex­tensive clinics in the country. Our major components number three. l)ur walk-in clinic treats day-to-day tnJUries, along with providing trainers to Notre Dame. Our educa­tional facet pmvides seasonal semi­nars and workshops for all people involved in the sports world,
--. whether they be coaches, trainers or athletes of any age. Finally, our physical fitness program conducts classes in a variety of conthtioning activities. "Sports Medicine is a new con­cept. Our new clinic is a response to a growing need. Today, more than ever before, thert· is a demand for injured athletes to get back on the 
field quKkly. The· increase in the popularity of ex~:rdsc ha~ led tll in­juri!.-!> of all sort,_ \\'<.· also have to confront a rhilosophical problem. Tht·rc i' a push ll1r an apparently healthy athlete to go hack on the field t(IO soon. :-.ometimes vn: have to pull them. and it is tough to tdl a runner th:n he has to .take three to six week:-. oft when he feels healthy." 
The "Sportsmed IOk Weekend" include~ a free health and running fair from II a.m. to 5 p.m. on Satur­day, alon~ with a Bill Rodgcrs run­ning clinic from noon until 4 p.m. and a banquet ar night All events will he held in the Century Center. 
On Sunday, there will be a one­and-one-half-mile "Fun Run'' in addi­tion to the ten kilometer race, scheduled for l p.m.. The weekend coincides with the opening of the ncw Sports Medicine Program. 
Reinke notes that "Bill Rodgers ha~ been traveling arround _ the country giving clinics. He has to be the most recugnizt:d runner in this country. The timing is great for an event like this, bccaust it docs not coincide with a football weekend." Noting that this Icvt·nt '"ill become annual. he jokes, "I should ask (Notre Dame athletic director) Gent: Corrigan to leave this weekend open all the time." 
Bill Rodgers is a household name to most sports fans. In 28 attempts at the 26.2 milt: marathon, he has come up victorious 18 timt:s. After competing in the 1976 Montrt·al Olympics, Bill caught the public eye by beating silver medaliM Frank Shorter in the New York City Marat­hon. His fi>ur victorics at Boston in­clude an American-record-breaking 
2:09.27 in 1979. While hc is not racing. he operates his own running centers in Boston. 
Saturday, October 10, 1981 -page 1 0 
.Wembers of the Oakland A's celebrate after defeating the Kansas Ci~y Royals, 4-1, to claim the American League W'estpennant. The A's, topfinis· 

A's advance ; three others hang on 
A's 4, Royals 1 
OAKLAND, Calif.(AP) · Rickey 
Ht:nderson broke out of a slump by 
reaching bast: four times and scoring 
three Oakland runs, leading the A's 
to a 4-I victory Friday night and a 
three-game sweep ofthe Kansas City 
Royals in the American League West 
playoffs. 
Manager Billy Martin's team became the first division champion of the strike-disrupted major league baseball season. 
The A's, who won the division for the first time since 197;, will play the AL East winner, the New York Yankees or :\1ilwaukee Brewers, in the championship series upcning next Tuesday night. 
The Royals, who won the AL title last year and had taken four of the last five division pennants, collected 10 hits off A's starter Rick Langford, equaling their total through the first two games. But they wasted most of the hits, induding four in the fifth in­
ning when they failed to score. 
Langford went 7 1/3 innings for the victory, and relievers Tom Un­derwood and Dave Beard held Kansas City hitless the reM of the way. Beard, a rookie promoted from the minors late in the season, earned a save with I 1I 3 perfect innings. 
The A's outscored the Royals I0-2 in the one-!>ided best offive seri.;s. 
Brewers 5, Yankees 3 
NEW YORK (AP)-Paul Molitor socked a tic-breaking leadoff homer in the eighth inning and Ted Sim­mons drove in three runs with a homer and a double as the slumber­ing ~ilwaukec Brewers erupted for a ;.3 victory over the New York Yankees last night, staying alive in the American League East division playoffs. 
Simmons' two-run homer in tht: seventh snapped a 19-inningscoring drought by the· normally hard­hitting Brewers, and they went on to narrow the Yankees' lead in the best­of-five serU:s to 2 games to I. 
Tht: fourth gamt: is schcduled for Yankee Stadium for 4:10p.m. EDT today. Rick Reuschel will pitch for New York, propably against Mil­waukee's Pete Vuekovich. who has been held out of the last two games due to a high fever. 
The Brewers' decisive two-nm eighth inning came after the Yanket·s had jumped on Milwaukee 
See BASEBALL, page 8 

There comes a time in every football season that a team has 
to show its meule. Foothall teams face challenges every 
week, <llld a cnach gets an idea what kind offootball team he 
ha~ by how well it re.,ponds to challt-nges. We faced one last 
week prep;Jring for \tkhigan State. 

Our coaching staffwondnt:d how our kids would resp1>11d 
during practice last wet·k aftn two ditllcult los~t·s. partit·ular­
Jr the last-second ont· at Purdue. A lot of teams would have 
ti>lded after that one. but we got an immediate-answer in 
practice on Monday. 

Right from the start our players showed us that they wt·re 
determined to put tht· los1>e~ behind them ,md work to turn 
around the season. As the week went on. we could tell by 
their hard work that they hadn't lost any enthu!>iasm. They 
worked with purpost: 

It carried over into last Saturday's game. I was very 
impreS-'>ed with Michigan State as a team and Muddy Waters 
as a coach and a person. He had his team playing with inten­
sity and enthusiasm. 

But I was equally impressed with the way our kids 
rebounded. I think thcy showt:d their true character. We not 
only overcame the adversity ofthe: two losses, but we plap.:d 
without some key offul!>ive and defensive personnel who 
had been injured the previous wet·ks. 

As I said in an earlier column, depth is an important ele­ment in college football. That became evident on our fiJUrth play from thc line of scrimmage Saturday wht·n our co­captain, tailback Phil Carter, came up limping with a ankle sprain. 
Sophomore Greg Bell, who had filled in c:arlit:r this fall when Phil wa~ recovering from a hamstring injury. was ready when we called on him. He ran hard all afternoon, finishing with 165 yards on 20 carries and two touchdowns and had 
another 75-yard scoring run called back because ofa holding 
penalty. 

When Greg was forced to leave the game midway through 
the third quarter with a hip pointer, freshman Chris Smith 
and senior Bernie Adell filled in admirably to preserve our 
20-7 victory. Bernie, a 5-l0, 205-pounder from Ipswich, 
Mass., was a very pleasant !;urprise. We didn't really know his 

potential until this 1;111 bt·cause we had kept him out ofspring 
drill~ so that hi!> knee injury could fully ht·al. 
When Bernk went into the game at the beginning of the: 
timrth quarter, I felt the victory was more important than 
more points on the scoreboard. That's why we went to con· 
servative football. 
Of course, the r<:11~on why all our tailbacks enjoyed such 
productive afternoons was the work ofouroft'ensive linemen 
-tackles Phil Pozderac and Tom Thayer, guards ,\fike Shiner 
and Larry Kissner, center Mark Fischer and tight end Dean 
Masztak. I can't say enough about the job they did. They 
allowed us to control the ball all afternoon; especially in the 
final 5:33 ofthe game. 
That was a key drive for us. but the two most crucial came 
in the first half. I felt we nt:edc:d to take control of the game 
right away, and when defensive end Kevin Griffith recovered 
a fumble on Michigan State's first play from scrimmage, we 
had that opportunity. 
On that initial drive. we twice were faced with fourth-and· 
one decisions whether to go t(>r the first down or kick the field goal. On the first one at their 14 it did cross my mind to kick one. but I had confidence our kids could score seven and 
that's why I went for it. Unfortunately, we lost Carter on the 
play after he madt· nine yards. 
There: was no doubt in my mind to go for the touchdown 
tht: next time we had a fourth-down play at their one. Since it 
was early •n the game, I figured if we missed, Michigan State 
would still have bad field position. As it turned out, the 
players made the decision a good one. 
The second crucial drive came after Michigan State had 
scored on a 63-yard touchdown pass late in the first half. I had 
felt we had controlled the game to that point, but that one big 
play had put them back into the game and given tht:m some momentum. We needt:d to take some of·it away before halftime. 
There was only I :02 left on the clock when we got the ball back at our own IR, and our kids did an excellent job movin~ the hall downfield to the Michigan State 2 I where Harry Oliver kicked a 38-yard field goal from a tough angle with five seconds lt:ft. Those were three very big points. 
The key to our defensive perti>rmance was the work ofour defensive line. one that ha~ been hit hard by injuries. Our linemen haVt· played well this sea~on, except on the few oc­casions where they've lost containment on the quartnback. That din't happen Saturday, and I was pleased with their four quarterback sacks, the three they brokt: up and the two fumbles that Griffith recovt:red. 
I'm still not pleased that we allowed another big play. We've got to work to eliminate them. but ~ometimes you can't. With so many great athletes today in college football. big plays will occur more because ofgreat execution on the part ofyour opponent than by your own mistakes. 
It's so difficult to completely shut down an opponent. and 
anyone who plays as difficult a schedule as we play will t1nd 
out. Moose Krause, our retired athletic director. is one of my 
best friends, but he sure left us with one tough st·hedule this 
year. 

It's easy to sec why this week's opponent, Florida State, is 
3·1. They have excellent team speed, they throw the ball well 
and their defense and kicking game are excellent. Thay are 
strong in all aspects of the game. Coach Bobby Bowden has 
done an excellent job, particularly when you consider his 
team's schedule is also one of the toughest in the country. 
Saturday's game will be Florida Statt"s third straight on the 
road. They must travel to Pittsburgh and Louisiana State after 
our game and they've already played at Nebraska and Ohio 
State. Last week. Ohio State's home-field advantage didn't 
bother Florida State at all. That's a sign ofa great football team and a well-coacht:d one. 
Florida State offers our football team another challenge this week. The taste of victory in the locker room last week was sweet, but we've got to keep working and improving to meet tht' challenges that still lie ahead. 

----------------------------------------' 
The Irish Extra -Florida State Saturday, October 10, 1981 -page 11 
Behind the scenes 




Trainers keep watchful eye 

John Doberz)' amifellou· trainers det'Ute a great deal oftime keeping Irish players 

FSU Frosh 

Rendina finds place in the sun 
By SCOTT FIELDS practically every major school in the t·ountry. ,\ports Editor ~1orc than I00 colleges and univnsitil's made Florida Flambeau scholarship oilers to tht: high school all­
American. hut tht:y wl·rc all a little too pushy. said Rendina. 
TALAHASSEE. Fla. -Super Toe II? Maybe, if 

Mike Rendina, Florida State's freshman "Michigan used to call four or live times a plau:kickercontinues to boot the ball the way night, even up to I:30 in the morning," said he has so far for the Seminoles. Rt:ndina. "Other schools had people waiting 
for me in the parking lot aftt:r school. I even 
Rendina, who has tilled the shoes of the wokt: up ont: morning and tinmd a Michigan original Super Toe, Bill Capece, (now kicking coach sitting in my living room waiting li1r for the Tampa Bay Hues) was sought after by me." 
Rendina almost accepted a 1>cholarship to 
By BRIAN REIMER 
Sports Wrl/l!r 
The average Notre Dame sports fan finds no 
diftkulty following action on the t1dd, but 
behind-the-~encs work often goes un­
noticed. Assm:iated wth the university's ath­
letic teams stands a crew oflrainers that bears 
the heavy responsibility oftending to the daily 
physical needs ofall varsiry athletes. 
Football coach Gerry Faust calls the trainers 
"the hacktmne ofour organization." From two 
in the afternoon until seven at night, they 
spend their time in a variety ofactivities as­
sociated with thdr n·ponsihilitic1>. 
Aftt:r da~scs arc over. they head to the train­
ing room 10 tape up the football playt:rs for 
practice. "I tape about 40 ankks a day," claims 
junior Steve Power, "at first the burden was 
ov<:rwhclming, but I'm at the stage now 
where I could do it in my slet:p." 
After the taping is finished, the trainers ac­company the player~ to practice. Their job at that timt: is not routine. From timt: to time. ex­hauMcd playns comt· to thl·m for watt·r. For­tunately. the cookr weather ofOctober makt·s that aspect of training less bur­densome. Freshman \'ince Hockett recalls a summer day when the players consumed enough water to till six coolers. 
The brunt of the managt:rs' tasks on the practice t1dd, however concerns monitoring. When the players t1nish their warm-up ex­ercises and break into individual groups. the eight student trainers also split up. "You have to keep a mental list" according to juniorJane Trusda, "of which players have which in­juries. Ifyou know that someone has had trouble with his neck in the past, then you watch that player to sec signs of more neck prohlt'ms. 
"The situation at ;\lotrc Dame is entirely dif­
continuedfrom page I 
throws underneath the coverage a lot." 
Stockstill, who tlnished lOth among NCAA passers in 19HO, utilizes his backs in FSU's pas­sing game, t·videnced by fullback Mike Whiting's nine rcn·ptiom. against Ohio State. lie's second in team receptions behind !lanker Dennis McKinnon. 
"Florida State build~ tht:ir whole attack on Faust. "I told his (Rendina's) fatht'f that. \li'etht· passing game," t·xplains Belden. \\;ho al­would have lovt·d to havt: had him. hut it was a tnnatcs at defensive t•nd with jon Autry. 
decision he had to sit down ami discuss with"We're stressing a lot ofaggressiveness on his family. He chose to May\\ llh it." 
ddt·nsc li1r thb game -we've got to get in thert· and put pressure on the quartcrhack." 
But why wa~ Mikt-lkndina so sought aftn 
... 

Notre Dame's front four produced four in the first place? \X'ell, ht· was the only quarterback sacks. three pass dellections and placekickt:r on the Parade AII-Amt·rica team two fumbk recoveries against Michigan State. last year. \X'hik in high school in Pompano 
Bddcn said that paformann-did a lot for Beach. he avaage a hang time of 5 . .:; seconds thdr conlldt·nce. "Those sacks hclpnl us on punts and su1t 5H of _W kickufl~~ sailing out realize that gt·tting to the quarterback was not of the t·nd zone. One more thing. he set a 
Mll'h an impossibk thing," he confesses. liroward County lleld goal record with a 57­
"\\'e'rt· ~oing to have to ~hut down their run­yard kick. ning game and make them throw. And we lkndina attributes a lot of his success to his know wt·'rt· capable ofapplying prt·ssurc to fatLC"r. 
~top their passing attack." "Dad ust·d to makl' tllms of Jill' wht·n I 
Notrt· Dame's young secondary again takes kicked," said lkndina. "It's kind of hard now the tkld without all-America candidate John not to have his watdtli.1leye around." Krimm. Sophomore Chris Brown rcplan·s the 
So li1r this st·ason for tht· Seminoks, Hendina
st·nior cornerback, and is joined by another has done wdl, dt·spitt· not having his 1:uher 
rdativt· ncwt·omer,jol' Johnson. The fn·sh­around to kel·p an eye on him. The young
man earnnl his t1rst start at frn· safety against freshman, who has had to face tht· pressurt· of
:\<lidtigan State. following in the tiHltsteps ofone ofFSU's most
An injury riddled lrbh ofli:nse. with top tail­F/oorida State linebacker Ron Hester turned the tide jor IIJe .\elllitt:>les, u•bo succes~ful placekickt·rs. is,three-tiJr-four on
hat·k~ Phil Cartt·r and <Ireg lkll at less than full blocks till Ohio State punt. The play u•ent on to tl'in. (Photo by A.P) tlcld goals this season. I lis longest so far is a 
strl'ltgth, will have to contend with a ddi:nsc 
that accounted li1r a goal-lint· stand and a 
blockt·d punt rctunwd li1r a touchdown 
against the Btll'kt')TS. Tackle (larry Futch, end .Jarvb Coursq· ( dd'cnsive .\1VP in thl· 'HI 
Orange Bowl) and cornerback james Harris 
ferent than my high school training ex­perience. Players here don't sit out injuries for a long time: and show offtheir letter jackets. They want to play. They're not always willing to tell us about minor injuries, so we have to watch them." 
"Bigjohn" Whitmer, the head of the train­ing staff, has to hire the: students. "We look for people with a high school background and an interest in working with us. W'c correspond with those incoming freshmen who express a desire to he a Notre Dame trainer, asking them to interview with us after they're accepted at the university. Even though our staff can not afford to attend every varsity sports practice session, we still handle all the athletes. We have some good kids on our staff; they make tlw Ori){Jr~m 1!0." 
The overall goal of the training staff is prevention ofinjuries, treatment of those that occur. and rt:habilitation. John "Doc" Doherty, in his fifth yt:ar. is the head student trainer. He carries a st·hedule of the day's ac­tivities. one that all the trainers must knO\v, for certain drills entail a greater risk ofinjury than others. According to Doherty, the job is tough at t1rst, "but you get better with experience." In addition to Powers. Trusdla, Hockett and Doherty, trainers include junior Rich Bontrager, sophomores Paul Kollman and Laura Curliss. and freshman Dan Egan. 
Kollman worked with Gt:rry Faust for four years at :\loeller High School. ''It's great to have him back. There's a big difference, though, between the two schools. At Modlc:r I was a manager and trainer. Here, it's impos­sible to handle both tasks." More than thirty hours a week is enough for anybody. 
Despite the hard and time consuming work, the job is satisfying. Doherty has got to love it. He intends to pursue training as a career. 
Notre Dame, but changed his mind when he 
arrived at the airport to have a look at the 
school last winter. It seems it was a typically 
frigid day and 20 steps offthe plane, ht: slipped 
on a sh~:et oficc: and fell llat on his hack. "That and coach Bowden were the two 
• • • Preview 

main reasons why I came to Florida State." 
right ncar where I originally come from 

said Rendina. "Turning down a scholarship to
(Gary. Ind.), and ifwe could heat them, it 

Notrt· Dame was one of the hardest things I
would be unreal." 

ever did."
And FSU's Eric Ryan doesn't think that's 

Notre Daml' head coach Gerry Faust said 
such an impossible task. "We just got finished 

Kendina had aln·ady signed a letter of intent
playing at Nebraska and OhioState, so the ­

'or FSll hdore the Irish started recruiting him.
Notre Dame game won't bother us," ofli:rs tht· 
6-4 ofti:nsive tackle. "We weren't in awe of 

''I'm a tlrm believer when you sign a kttn
Ohio State and we won't he of Notre Dame." 

of intent, you've made a commitment." said 
against Nebraska earlier this season. 

Florida State also will showcase freshman placekicker Mike Rendina, the only kicker ever named to Parade's All-America team. Rendina, an Indiana native, has connected on 52, 46 and 24-yard attempts. 
"I can't wait to play Notre Dame," he ad­mits. "Dcti:ating them is the only thing that could top the Ohio State win. South Bend is 

52-yardcr against OhioState last week. I k had 
:. 2"1-yardcr against Louisville in the opening 
!!amc of the year and a -16-yardcr against 
Nebraska. llis lone miss camt· on a 37-yard at­

' ' ' 

tcmt against Nebraska. 
arc the only regular~ from last year·~ unit, but Faust i~ still imprt·ssed. 
"I just fed that if t lwy can keep a great pas­sing team like Ohio Stare from making the big play while allowing them only :\H yards rus­hing. thcy'vt· got a darn good unit on the tkld." 
Another Seminok unit that concerns Faust is thl· ki<:king tt·am. FSU's punter Rohn Stark is nm~idt:red the he~t collcgt· prospel'l since Ray <luy, now with the Oakland Raiders. Awarded all-America honors in 19HO, the senior avera~ed .:; I I yards on eight punts 
continuedfrom page.! 

people.' bl·causc oftht· difference 111 pn­sonalitics. Everybody has a certain way ofget­ting ready tiJr a game. But the stuff·ahout our beingoverl·ontldent or cocky is not true at all. 
"As far as the disappointment goes," he. adds, "we didn't play well against Michigan, so that made that loss especially painful ti1r us. I didn't want to experience that pain any more. and I'm sure the rest of the team didn't either. The following week against Purdue. we played better. but we still lost. !think that that was just one ofthost: games that we weren't 
meant to win. But that doesn't make the loss anv kss painful. 
:.We don't like losing. I don't like losing. I want to win, and I take it personally when we don't. I start thinking about what I might have done differently that might haw made a dif­ference. We came back a little against Michi­gan State. hut I think this weekend is our true test. Florida State is one of the powerhouses, right up there with Michigan and Purdue. Now. it's time to sec how well we've learned from our losses and mistakes." 

On point-after attt·mpts, Rendina has hit on eight-of-nine, which, combin~·d with his 11dd goals, gives him the team lead in scoring with 
I·• points. 
Ht·ndina, a South lknd native, is looking lilr­wdrd to the Seminoles' game against Notre Dame. It will give him an opportunity to pcr­lilfln in front ofseveral friends and relatives this Saturday. 
"Things arc really starting to come togt:th­er," said Rendina. "It's really starting to gel!." 

!!!!!!! !!!!!!!--!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!--! ____!!!!!!!! 
Saturday, October 10, I 981 -page 12The Irish Extra -Florida State 




fJ.\l\ 

Notre Dame ~s. Florida State The Game 


The Lineups 
F1ghtmg Irish vs. Flonda State Semmoles 
NOTRE DAME OFFENSE
GAME: 
FLORIDA STATE OFFENSE 

POS NO PLAYER HT WT CL
Notre Dame Stadium (capacity 59.075) 
POS NO PLAYER HT WT CL QB 14 Tim Koegel 6-4 205 Sr. 
SITE: 
QB 11 Rick Stockstill 6-1 185 Sr.

1 30 p.m. EST Saturday, October 10, 1981 TIME: 
5 Bla1r Kiel 6-1 195 So. 
14 Bla1r Williams 6-1 185 Jr

Metrosports Replay Network TV-RADIO: 
rB 22 Phil Carter 5-10 200 Jr. 
TB 44 Ricky Williams 5-10 170 Jr.

Harry Kalas and George Connor 
28 Greg Bell 6-0 205 So. 
31 Billy Allen 6-0 220 Fr 9 a.m. Sunday-WNDU-TV FB 33 John Sweeney 6-2 215 Jr. 
FB 27 Mike Whiting 6-1 210 Sr. 35 Mark Brooks 6-3 215 Fr. 
20 Ken Burnett 5-11 200 Jr WB 85 Tonv Hunter 6-5 220 Jr. 
Notre Dame-Mutual Rad1o Network 
WR 6 Dennis McKinnon 6-1 180 Jr.

Tony Roberts and AI Wester 
48 John Mosley 6-1 195 So. 
4 Jess1e Hester -6-0 170 Fr

WNDU-AM 1500 
SE 11 Mike Boushka 6-3 200 Sr. 
WR 87 Phil Williams 5-10 170 Sr. WNDU-TV Channel16 83 Mike Favorite 6-4 195 So. 
82 Tony Johnson 6-1 175 So RT 71 Phil Pozderac 6-9 270 Sr. 
RT 73 Barry Voltapetti 6-7 260 Jr. 52 John Putzstuck 6-5 262 Jr. 78 Terry Widner 6-4 250 So 
Tom Dennm and Jeff Jeffers 
SERIES: f1rst meetmg of the two teams 
RG 74 Mike Shiner 6-8 270 Jr. 
RG 75 Tom Brannon 6-3 250 Sr.

out 
75 Larry Williams 6-6 240 Fr. 
77 Chns Nickrenz 6-6 250 So c 57 Mark Fischer 6-4 245 Jr. c 69 Tom McCormick 6-2 230 So. 68 Barry Young 6-5 245 So. 
56 Jerry Coleman 6-3 235 Jr. LG 53 Larry Kissner 6-4 225 Sr. 
LG 63 Ricky Render 6-5 235 So. 61 Mark LeBlanc 6-2 248 Jr 
66 Redus Cogg1n 6-3 230 Jr

The Statistics 
L T 64 Tom Thayer 6-5 265 Jr. 
L T 62 Eric Ryan 6-4 255 Jr. TEAM STATISTICS NO OPP RUSHING G NO YDS AVG TO LG DEFENSE 
TMTL-YDS PBU FR BK 70 Neil Maune 6-5 255 So. 

61 Dan Morns 6-2 240 Fr TE 86 Dean Masztak 6-4 240 Sr. 
TE 81 Zeke Mowatt 6-4 235 Jr.

Crable 61 6-30 1 1 0 
95 Pete Buchanan 6-3 230 Jr.
TOTAL OFFENSE YARDS 1304 1254 Bell 4 41 285 7.0 2 41 84 Sam Childers 6-2 220 SrZavagmn 40 1-7 ·2 0 0 
p 5 Blair Kiel 6-1 195 So. p 3 Rohn Stark 6-3 195 Sr.Duerson 25 2-5 4 0 0
Total Plays 277 271 Carter 4 46 214 4 7 2 30 10 Brian Whelan 6-0 185 Sr. 
PK 7 Mike Rendina 5-9 165 Fr.

Yards per Play 47 46 Smith 3 32 114 3.6 1 22 
Knmm 19 0-0 2 0 0 
PK 3 H!!rry Oliver 5-11 185 Sr. 
KO 7 Mike Rendina 5-9 165 Fr.

Yards per Game 326.0 313 5 Hunter 4 25 67 2 7 1 13 
Toran 19 1-6 2 0 0 
4 M1ke Johnston 5-11 185 Jr PR 41 Cedric JonesPENALTIES-YARDS 20-204 20-153 Brooks 3 15 62 4 1 0 22 
Clasby 18 2-10 2 0 0 
KO 40 Steve Cichy 6-2 210 Sr. 
KR 20 GregAilenFUMBLES-LOST 4-0 9-4 Sweeney 3 13 47 3.6 0 11 

Gramke 15 2-13 0 0 0 
4 Mike Johnston 5-1 185 Jr.
Yards Returned 0 0 Adell 3 6 17 2.8 0 8 Naylor 14 0-0 0 0 0 
PR 23 Dave Duerson Belden 12 2-15 0 0 0
TOTAL FIRST DOWNS 65 59 Mosley 2 3 17 5.7 0 6 
30 Stacey Toran Marshall 12 4-21 0 0 0
By Rushing 35 32 Monarty 4 6 15 2.5 0 9 KR 28 Greg BellBy Passing 27 21 W1ll1amson 1 6 6.0 0 6 Autry 
12 1-22 1 0 0 
24 Joe Howard By Penalty 3 6 Howard 3 1 -3 -3 0 0 o Gnffith 11 0-0 4 3 0 I THIRD DOWNS-CONV 58-21 63-16 K1el 4 1 -9 -9.0 0 0 11 0-0 0 0 0 NOTRE DAME DEFENSE FLORIDA STATE DEFENSEPercentage 362 .254 Koegel 4 12 -56 -4.7 0 7 ~~;:son 

10 0-0 1 0 0 

LE 38 John Autry 6-2 230 So. DE 64 Jarvis Courseyl 6-4 220 Sr. 8 1-3 0 0 0
POSSESSION TIME 128 02 111 58 -36 Tony Belden 6-2 230 Sr 86 John Mclean 6-2 230 So.

Minutes per Game 32 01 27 59 NOTRE DAME 4 202 776 3 8 6 41 Rudzinski 
6 0-0 0 0 0 

L T · 77 Tim Marshall 6-4 250 So. L T 76 AlphonsoCarreker 6-6 235 So. Roggeman 5 1-2 0 0 0 
OPPONENTS 4 184 642 3.5 4 26 Bock 94 Tom Bock 6-4 255 Sr. 
98 Brad Fojtik 6-5 225 So SCORING GTD PA R-PA S FG TP PUNTING G NO YDS AVG LG Liebenstein 3 0-0 0 0 0 

RT 92 Joe Gramke 6-4 245 Sr. RT 79 Garry Futch 6-2 245 Sr. Brown 3 0-0 0 0 0 
91 Bob Clasby 6-5 260 Jr. 85 Dav1d Ponder 6-3 225 So 
Oliver 4 0 8·9 0-0 0 2·4 14 K1el 4 28 1062 37.9 53 C1chy 3 0-0 1 0 0 RE 56 Kevin Griffith 6-3 240 Sr. DE 60 Scott McLean 6-4 235 Sr. 
Carter 4 2• 0-0 0-0 0 0-0 12 Larkin 3 0-0 0 0 0 
88 Jeff Lueken 6-5 245 Jr. 90 Allen Campbell 6-4 235 So Bell 4 2 0-0 0-0 0 0-0 12 NOTRE DAME 4 28 1062 37.9 53 Adell 2 0-0 0 0 0 
SLB 37 Rick Naylor 6-3 220 So. LB 54 Tommy Young 6-1 205 Jr. Condem 3 1 0-0 0-0 0 0-0 6 OPPONENTS 4 261115 42.9 60 Carter 0-0 0 0 0 
51 Joe Rudzinski -6-3 225 Jr 83 Ron Hester 6-2 220 Sr Masztak 4 0-0 0-0 0 0-0 6 Gann 0-0 0 0 0 
MLB 43 Bob Crable 6-3 225 Sr. NG 51 James Gilbert 6-0 260 Sr.
PUNT RET NO YDS AVG TO LG
Monarty 4 0-0 0-0 0 0-0 6 Sh1elds 0-0 0 0 0 
49 Jack Sh1elds 6-2 220 Jr 68 Lenny Chavers 6-0 230 Fr Sm1th 3 0-0 0-0 0 0-0 6 Monarty 0-0 0 0 0 
WLB 46 Mark Zavagnin 6-2 225 Jr. LB 38 Ken Roe 6-1 220 So.
Duerson 12 82 6 8 0 16
Hunter 4 0-0 0-0 0 0-0 6 A1ce 0-0 0 0 0 
45 John A1ce 6-3 220 Jr. 35 Erme S1ms 6-1 215 SrKnmm ·1 5 50 0 5 
Mosley 0-0 0 0 0 
WCB 30 Stacey Toran 6-4 195 So. CB 24 Harvey Clayton 5-10 170 Jr. NO 4 9 8-9 0-0 0 2-4 68 
41 M1ke Mas1n1 6-2 200 Sr 9 Warren Hanna 5-11 170 Jr 
OPP 4 8 3-3 1-5 0 1-4 56 NOTRE DAME 13 87 6 7 0 16. NOTRE DAME 318 23-134 20 4 0 SCB 19 Chris Brown 6-1 185 So. CB 33 James Harris 6-0 185 Sr.
OPPONENTS 14 68 4 9 0 15 OPPONENTS 318 16-80 11 2 0 
18 Bumper Schiro 6-0 180 So 42 Quinton Reed 5-1 0 175 Fr. SS 23 Dave Duerson 6-3 200 6-3 ss 30 Larry Harris . 6-1 200 So. 
Koegel 4 58 33 569 2 473 2 KICKOFF RET NO YDS AVG TO LG PASSING G NO CO PCT INT YDS TO 
40 Steve C1chy 6-2 210 Sr. 23 Tracy Ashley 5-10 180 Fr
INTRET 
NO YDS AVG TO LG 

FS 27 Joe Johnson· 6-2 190 Fr. WS 8 Eric Riley 6-0 170 So. Condem 3 1 1 1 000 0 4 0 Bell 
K1el 4 12 5 417 4 51 1 24 83 20 7 0 26 Knmm 

1 11 11.0 0 11Hunter 4 1 0 000 1 0 0 Howard 1 23 23.0 0 23 Toran 
2 3 1.5 0 3Grooms 3 0 000 0 0 0 Knmm 2 4 20 0 3 Johnson 

0 00 0 0 Notre Dame 4 75 39 520 7 528 3 NOTRE DAME 
7 110 15.7 0 26 NOTRE DAME 


The Band
4 14 3.5 0 11

')pponents 4 87 3o 402 4 612 4 OPPONENTS 13 249 19.2 0 26 OPPONENTS 
74869029 
Bali Hai

Notre Dame Marching Band 
Nothin' Like A Dame


Program for Half-time
Florida State (3-1) 
Notre Dame (2-2) 

Notre Dame vs. Florida State
Sept. 5 beat LOUISVILLE, 17-0 
Sept. 12 beat LSU. 27-9 

Oklahoma Mnllc:} Sept. 191ost to Mich1gan. 25-7 
Sept. 12 beat MEMPHIS ST. 10-5 
Surrey With the Fringe on Top A Tribute to Richard Rodgers
3ept. 26 lost to Purdue. 15-14 

Sept. 19 lost to Nebraska. 34-14 
People Will Say We're in Love 
:Jet. 3 beat MICHIGAN ST.. 20-7 

Oct 3 beat Oh1o State, 36-27 
Do Re ~i Oklahoma Oct. 10 FLORIDA STATE 
Oct. 1 0 at Notre Dame 
Sound of Music .\lledky: 
Oct. 24 SOUTHERN CAL 

Oct. 17 at Pittsburgh 
·W:Y Favorite Things Viccory March 
Oct. 31 NAVY Oct. 24at LSU 

Sound ofMusic 
The band will play a concert in front
Nov. 7 GEORGIA TECH 

Oct. 31 WESTERN CAROLINA 
·r. ,1 dl of the Administration Building at
South Pau 1c .• e cy
Nov. 14 at A1r Force 

Nov. 7 MIAMI (FLA.) 
. noon. Step-off for the: stadium will

Some EnchantedEvenrng . /o • •
\Jov 21 at Penn State 

Nov. 14 SO. MISSISSIPPI 
I, G W: h Tb follow at 12:-'!S p.m. 1 he band will 
m onna as at Man Right .. . .
'Jov 28 at Miam1 (Fla.) 

Nov. 28 at Flonda 
,f,... ,H . march back to \X ashmgton Hall 1111­
Out 
0J ·"} atr 


published line Last week the p1cks of two MIKE OLENIK CHRIS NEEDLES SKIP DESJARDIN GARY GRASSEY BILL MARQUARD MICHAEL ORTMAN KELLY SULLIVAN MARK HANNUKSELA 
wnters were rece1ved too late for publication. 

Sports Wnter Sports Writer Asst Sports Ed1tor SportsWnter Sports Wnter Sports Ed1tor SportsWnter Sports Wnter Their results have been tabulated Home 40-31-2. 563 39-32-2. 549 36-35-2..507 33-38-2. 465 33-38-2. 465 33-38-2 . .465 33-38-2. 465 28-43-2. 394 
teams are 1n CAPS. 

CLEMSON over Virginia by 18 T1gers T1gers T1gers T1gers T1gers T1gers T1gers T1gers Michigan over MICHIGAN STATE by 19 Wolvennes Spartans Wolvennes Spartans Wolvennes Wolvennes Spartans Wolvennes NORTH CAROLINA over Wake Forest by 18 Deacons Heels Deacons Deacons Heels Heels Heels Heels NAVY over Air Force by 16 M1dd1es M1dd1es MiddleS -M1dd1es M1dd1es M1dd1es M1dd1es M1dd1es PENN STATE over Boston College by 24 L1ons Eagles Lions Lions L1ons L1ons Lions L1ons Pittsburgh over WEST VIRGINIA by 7 Panthers Panthers Panthers Panthers Panthers
Panthers Panthers Mountaineers TENNESSEE over Georgia Tech by 4 Jackets Vols Vols Vols Vols Vols Jackets Vols IOWA over Indiana by 11 Hawks Hawks Hawks Hoos1ers Hoos1ers Hoos1ers Hawks
Hawks PURDUE over Illinois by 7 llhm IIlim Boilers llhnl Bo1lers Bo1lers Bo1lers Boilers ALABAMA over So. Mississippi by 23 T1de T1de Eagles T1de T1de Eagles Eagles T1de AUBURN over Louisiana State by 2 T1gers Auburn . T1gers Auburn Auburn T1gers T1gers Auburn MINNESOTA over Northwestern by 28 Wildcats Gophers Wildcats Gophers Gophers Gophers Gophers Gophers Georgia over MISSISSIPPI by 7 Dawgs Dawgs Dawgs Dawgs Dawgs Dawgs Dawgs Dawgs Ohio State over WISCONSIN by 7 Badgers Buckeyes Buckeyes Badgers Badgers Buckeyes Buckeyes Buckeyes Oklahoma over TEXAS by 2 Horns Horns Sooners Sooners Horns Sooners Sooners Sooners USC over ARIZONA by 21 Trojans Trojans Trojans Wildcats Trojans Wildcats Wildcats Trojans ..._ 
NEBRASKA over Colorado by 22 Huskers Huskers Huskers Huskers Buffs Huskers Huskers Huskers NOTRE DAME over Florida State by 7 Irish Sem1noles Irish Semmoles Seminoles Seminoles f' lnsh
Irish 








