
• .More Trivia -page 7 · 
• 

Change by-laws 

Senate discusses CL 
By DAVID SARPHIE 
StaffReporter 
Changes in the organization of the CLC and the formation of a budget committee for this semester were among the topics disl·ussed at last night's Student Senate meeting. Also on the agenda was the creation of a committee to discuss problems in the North Dining Hail and a proposed wager from the University ofMaryland. 
The changes in the CLC's by-laws, drawn up by Student Body President Paul Riehle, would extend the juris­diction of that council to all stu­dents. Currently, only residence hail students arc affected by CLC deci­sions. Another proposed change would allow members of the Stu­dent Senate to hold a majority of seats on the council. Voting on these amendments was postponed until the meeting next week. 
The Student Senate then dis­cussed the formation of a budget 

Ticket sales lag 

Mardi Grasfuture uncertain 
By MARY FRAN CALLAHAN 
Senior Copy lidllor 
Though this year's Mardi Gras will follow the tradition of past Mardi Gra.~. the future ofthe event remains uncertain, according to Dan McKee· nan, Mardi Gras chairman. 
Dut· to an archdiocesan regula· tion which prohibits gambling in conjunction with church activities, committee for the spring semester. Chairman Don Ciancio emphasized the Importance of the committee, noting that it administers over 80 percent of the Student Government budget. The Senate again held offon any decisions until next week. 
Also considered was a proposed committee to aid Fr. John Wolvlear In setting dining hail hours for next year. According to Wolvlear, the Vice President for Stu­dent Affairs, the new hours will be necessitated by overcrowded condi­tions in the North Dining Hail, due to the two new girls' dorms. 
The meeting ended on a lighter note, as Riehle suggested a wager with the University ofMaryland over this Saturday's basketball game. According to Riehle, the Maryland student legislative body had con­tacted him over the weekend about a prnposed bet. The Senate agreed to 

Many students signed up yesterday to forfeit their Wednesday
stake one case of "Fighting Irish 

lunches to help raise moneyfor the World Hunger Coalition. (Photo 
Wine" on the game. 

by Rachel Blount) 
has given away a black and white TV and a trip to Chicago. The next prize to be awarded is an AM/FM stereo cassette system. 
The Mardi Gras Committee has also purchased a 1981 Oldsmobile Cutlass, which is the grand prize in the regular ticket raffle. 
Some of the charities which will benefit from the raffle include: Sr. 

Marita's Primary Day School, CILA, may replace the traditional gam­Logan Center, Special Olympics, the bling festivites. Neighborhood Study Help Program 
"We're just not sure now whatand starving nations. 
we'll do," McKernan commented.
McKernan said no plans have "We won't select a chairman forbeen made for future Mardi Gras, as next year until later this semester," the Committee is concentrating on he concluded.
this year's event. He did say, however, that possibly a dance, with 
This year's event is scheduled for proceeds going to local charities, Feb. 13-21 in Stepan Center. 
Carter greets 

hostages 
WIESBADEN, West Germany 
(AP)-Jimmy Carter held an emo­
tional meeting with the 52 
Americans held hostage by Iran for 
14 1/2 months and then denounced 
the Iranian government's 
"despicable act of savagery." He 
added, "Our Americans In Iran were 
mistreated much wor!!C! than 
previously revealed." 
The former president's descrip­
tion ofacts of"barbarism" leading to 
"abominable circumstances" for the 
freed captives followed reports from 
hostages' families and the St:ilte 
Department that the Americans suf­
fered physical and psychological 
abuse during their 444 days In cap­
tivity. 
The State Department issued a 
statement here saying, "On the basis 
of what we have learned so far, we 
have further evidence of serious 
mistreatment In a number of cases 
during the period oftheir captivity." 
It did not elaborate. 
Carter, who turned over the 
presidency to Ronald Reagan on 
Tuesday, was denied the chance of 
announcing the hostages' freedom  
while still in office, but as Reagan's  
special envoy he said he was able to  
"express the thanks of a grateful na­ 
tion to the brave hostages."  
Carter said afterwards they "were  
mistreated  much  worse  than  has  
been previously revealed. The acts  j  
of  barbarism  which  were  per­ j  
petrated on our people by Iran can  I  
never be condoned.  J  
·See HOSTAGES, page 5  

Mardi Gras will have to undergo 
some drastic changes after this year. 
Bishop McManus of the local 
archdiocese, however, has allowed 
this year's Mardi Gras to run as 
originally intended. 
"The money (from the gambling 
proceeds) docs go to charities. We 
had also already promised the 
charities money, which they took in­
to account in their budgets. And we 
had purchased the car and the 
supplies for building the booths," 
McKernan explained. 
At present, however, Mardi Gras 
raffie-tickt·t sales, though above the 
level reached last year at this time, 
still need to climb. 
McKernan said approximately 
800 books have been turned in, but 
all Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
received the ticket books. "I'd like to 
see more tickets sold. We're above 
where we were last year, but we still 
need to sell a lot more," he com­
mented. 
Ticket books should be given to 

hall chairmen a.~ soon as possible. 
The Chairman added that this 

year's theme is "In the News," and 
booths will feature "headlines from 
the past." This year's prizes for ticket 
sellers include: all-expense: paid trips 
for two to the Bahamas and 
Colorado. 
To spur the incentive for selling 1the raffle-ticket books, the Commit­
tee ha.'i also been giving away smal­
ler prizes to students. Every student 

who turns in a ticket book automati­
cally has his name entered into a 
small raffie. Thus far, the Committee 


Did U.S. taxpayers ransom hostages? 
By R. GREGORY NOKES 
Associated Press Writer 
WASHINGTON -Did the United 
States pay ransom to Iran for release 
of the 52 Americans? Apparently 
not, but U.S. taxpayers will probably 
end up with some out-of-pocket ex­
pense. 
Ransom is money of one party 
demanded in return for a kidnap vic­
tim or hostage held by another 
party, and many Americans feel the 
Carter administration paid dearly ­
in pride a.~ well as money -to free 
the former hostages. 
New York Mayor Edward Koch, 
for one, responded with an ex­
plosive, "Baloney!" when a reporter 
asked whether he agreed with other 
officials that the agreement was not 
ransom. "In effect, we have paid a penalty to terrorists, a penalty to kidnap­pers," Koch said Tuesday. Former Vice President Walter Mondale has defended the hostage agreement, saying the U.S. was not paying "a dime ofAmerican money," and Republican Charles Percy, chairman ofthe Senate Foreign Rela­tions Committee, said "not one cent ofransom" was involved. To date, that is correct. The 
money paid to Iran, S2.9 billion, was from Iranian funds on deposit in the 
U.S. and in U.S. banks abroad at the time former President Jimmy Carter froze Iranian assets in November, 1979. It did include $800 million in interest, but interest would have ac­cumulated anyway. 
Another $5.1 billion in frozen 
funds was used to pay off bank loans 
made to Iran and to settle future 
claims. And S3 billion or so may be 
delivered to Iran later, but that is 
also to be Iranian money. 
The potential liability fQr the tax­
payer falls in three areas: 
-Compensation to the hostages for the harm done them. -Com­pensation for loss and damage to U.S. property in Iran. -Compensation for claims from unfulfilled contracts and other debts owed American business. 
Here in question-and-answer form is an attempt to answer these and other questions about the agree­ment. 
Q. What about compensation for the 52 hostages? bow will that be handled? 
A. The agreement lets Iran off the hook, even though Iran is to blame for their anguish and abuse, the loss of freedom and the 14 months lost from their normal lives. 


Instead, the agreement provides for -establishing a presidential com­mission to decide any compensa­
tion.  It  could  ea.~ily  amount  to  
several million dollars  -and tax­ 
payers would pay it.  

Q. How about damage to the U.S. Embassy and other U.S. property in Iran? 
A. Iran is absolved of respon­sibility, despite there being ample precedent for compensation by host countries when damage is done to property ofother nations. 
See RANSOM, page 3 


News Brie/§ 
Thursday,January 22, 1981 -page 2 
c===~========~====================================~
by The Observer and The Associated Press 
A female Notre Dame studentwalking on the 
road between Jake Kline Field and the ACC yesterday morning was stopped by a man driving a small, brown two-door sports car, who then proceeded to expose himself to the student, Security reported. The suspect was approximat~ly 25-35 years old, medium height with sandy brown hair, and was wearing glasses and a suede coat. Any per­sons spotting the suspect should inform the Security department im­mediately. -The Observer. 
Ronald Reagan got his wake-up call at 

8:10 a.m. yesterday, had a leisurely breakfast with his wife in their new home and got to the office shortly before 10 a.m. for his first day ofthe job as president of the United States. He'd had a big time the night before, making the rounds of one formal dinner and nine inaugural balls, but he arrived home at the White House at 12:25 am. -40 minutes ahead of schedule, and aides said he went right to bed. He woke up only 10 minutes later than usual. Reagan's habits are in marked contrast to his predecessor, Jimmy Carter, who arose before dawn daily, often at 5 am., and made appointments for 7:15 or 7:30. In another break with the recent past, Reagan received no morningbrief­ing from his national security adviser. His counselor, Edwin Meese, said the CIA briefing paper was simply sent in to Reagan in the family quarters after he awoke. After breakfast, Reagan stopped in the White House East Room to attend the swearing-in ofhis staffbefore going to the Oval Office. Then he directed his staff to disregard the politics in which most of them nave been immersed before they came to his administration. -AP 
Prof. Anthony M. Trozzolo, charles L Huisking 
Professor of Chemistry at Notre Dame, was the recipient of the: Gregory and Freda Halpern Award in Photochemistry at the New York Academy of Sciences' 163rd annual meeting, held last month at tl~t.· Time/Life Building in New York City. Dr. Parithychery Srinivasan. president of the Academy, presented a certificate of citation and SI,OOO to Pro[ Trozzolo in recognition of his outstanding contribu· tions to the science of photochemistry. Prof. Trozzolo's scholarly ap· proach to the detection of intermediates in organic chemistry is renowned. In addition to this research, Trozzolo's work led to the invention in 1970 of an exciplex dye laser with a wide tunability range. To date, it still has the widest tunability range for a single solu­tion dye laser. Trozzolo has been associated with the University since 1975, when he accepted the Huisking chair. -The Observer. 
Dozensoftransientsare spending their nights sleep­ing on the sidewalk outside a one-room mission called Baloney Joe's because city fire officials in Portland, Ore., say it's too dangerous for I00 people to rest inside. "There are people in this city walking the streets at night just to keep warm because they have no place to go," said mission manager Michael Stoops. "We almost had a riot before we decided to let men sle~p on the sidewalk." This week, Stoops began giving transients blankets to sleep outside at night. He contends the city is restricting admissions to the one-room mission to keep hobos out of Portland. But Don Mayer•. a spokesman for the Portland Fire Bureau, said a fire hazard is at issue. The mission has only one exit, and city codes allow for a maximum of 49 people inside, he said. "IfJesus came to Portland's skid row, he wouldn't go to those church missions, he'd come to Baloney Joe's," Stoops said. "The transients want to come here because we are always open and we don't hassle them. They don't have to sit through a religious service to get a free meal." ­
AP 
Aformer Nazi death campguard who has lived in this country for 31 years must be stripped of his U.S. citizenship, the Supreme Court ruled yesterday. By a 7-2 vote, the justices said 73­year-old Feodor Fedorenko "illegally procured" his U.S. citizenship in 1970 because he lied to immigration officials when entering the country in 1949. The federal government now can strip Fedorenko of his citizenship and move to deport him. The court's decision made clear that even ifgovernment prosecutors did not think it necessary to take away Fedorenko's citizenship, the Immigration and Nationality Act demands it. The ruling appears to give the government discretion in deciding whether to deport Fedorenko. The Carter administration had sought it fervently. Fedorenko's case now will return to a federal judge in Fort Lauderdale, Fla., for a final denaturalization order -the stripping ofcitizenship. Then Fedorenko likely will be the subject of an Immigraton and Naturalization Service deportation tion hearing. ­
AP 
Sen. Edward M. Kennedy and his wife Joan, side­by-side campaigners as he sought the Democratic presidential nomination last year, announced yesterday they plan to divorce after 22 years of marriage. They had been living apart -he in suburban Washington, she in Boston -although Mrs. Kennedy appeared fre­quently with her husband during his failed effort to wrest his party's, nomination from Jimmy Carter. In a statement issued by Kennedy's Senate office in both their names, the couple said "appropriate legal proceedings will be commenced in due course." They have three children. Aspokesman for Kennedy declined comment on where the divorce proceedings would be initiated. -AP 
Partialclearingwith highs in the mid to upper 30s. Partly cloudy at night and tomorrow. Lows tonight in the low to mid 20s. Highs tomorrow in the low to mid 30s. -AP. 

History remembers Carter 
We have had some interesting discussions recently concerning the fall of Jimmy Carter from power. Al­ready, people wonder how history will reflect on this man (so fiercely detested at present), and many realize that the metaphorkal mirror, while not naming Carter the fairest ofthem all, at least will not crack at the sight ofhis hideous visage. · 
It has always been one of our political beliefs that a president must, for the overall good ofthe nation, make decisions which will anger or alienate certain political or sociological factions. The Carter White House took great pride during the past campaign in reminding us that Carter did make many of these moves, disdaining more politically popular alternatives, and they at­tributed much ofhis unpopularity to these actions. 
This may be true, but to a lesser extent that the Geor­gia clique would have you believe. Most people could find better reasons to vote against Jimmy Carter-his failure to control inflation, his amazing inconsistency, his ambiguous foreign policy -than just one random decision, and as history has shown, incumbent presi­dents, with all the advantages ofthe office, are very dif­ficult to defeat. Keep in mind also that Carter was a shamelessly political president during the campaign, especially during the primaries. 
Now in the post-mortems with lame-duck Carterites on late night talkshows like ABC's "Nightline" or NBC's "Tom & Rona Ego Show," we often hear the phrase "History will show..." It seems to be their form of solace, which is understand­able: They don't want to feel as if they've thrown away four years of their life working for some hapless boob. But are their claims legitimate? Let's attempt a brief revisionist's history here. 
Iran, and specifically the 
hostages, seemed to be the 
principal thorn in the side of "the demon warmonger 
Carter," as the demonstrators used to lovingly refer to 
him. Carter will ultimately be credited for securing 
their release, and lauded for his patience. His handling 
of the crisis will be seen as appropriate, and the blame 
probably will not fall on his shoulders, even though he 
was amply warned of the embassy's immediate danger. 
Remember that presidents dating back to Truman have 
had their hand in the Shah's cookie jar, and it was their 
collective influence more than Carter's which crys­
tallized anti-American hatred in Iran. History tends to 
take a broad perspective in matters such as this, some­
thing we don't always do in the present. 
In the area of human rights, Carter's pet, the new ex 
may be seen as an innovator, a man with a vision, or a 
dreamer, a man with his head in the clouds. Unfor­
tunately, he will be viewed as the latter. American presi­
dents have learned the painful lesson that strategic 
alliances and maintenance of U.S. muscle take 
precedence over human rights. Carter, unhappily, 
showed what he had learned last year by advocating a 


Photographer ....................... Rachel Blount Guest Appearances ................ )ohn Calcutt (Exec. Ed. Emeritus) 
I
Mike Delaplain, Richard Benis 
I 
I
The Observer (USPS 598 920) Is published Monday through Friday 
I1
except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer ls8ublished by the students of Notre arne and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $20 per year ($10 per semester) by writing The 
I
Observer, P.O. Box Q, Notre 


spot in the U.N. for Cambodia's cuddly Pol Pot. It was a typical Carter Administration contradiction in foreign policy, and Carter will take the blame for initiating a decline in America's world standing. 
' Carterites were always quick to point out two of the ex's biggest successes, the Panama Canal and Camp David. They claim that past presidents shied away from the Canal problem, and it is commendable that Cater relieved the U.S. ofone ofits last vestiges ofcolonialism. But the difficulty of that task will be forgotten. The Camp David accords may be seen as a major ac­complishment, but only if the process continues, suc­cessfully. That could depend on the future of Menachem Begin and the longevity of Anwar Sadat. 
Right now, both achieve­ments stand out. Carter also signed SALT II, but that was largely a Kissinger-negotiated treaty. 
The best that can be said about Carter's economic policies is that he kept us out of a depression. He did not balanct> the budget, he did not reduce the deficit, he did not decrease the bureaucracy, and he did start his own recession. Notice, though, what most presidents are not remem­bered for their economic legacies: when you think of Eisenhower and the Fifties, you think of Laverne and Shirley, Elvis, and the Brook­

lyn Dodgers. You forget that he plunged us into two fairly painful recessions, and owed a great deal of his popularity to just plain hero worship. Many now 4espise Carter for his economic ineptitude, but memories of our current hardship will fade, especially as things get worse. 
Which brings us to this final question: How will his­tory view this election? Many are tossing around the term 'conservative shift' these days, as if describing a mass ideological exodus from the left, and liberals are indeed acting very paranoid lately. They shouldn't. It was the anti-Carter vote, the 'anything will be better than this' attitude which made the Republican victory so resounding. The reasons for this vote may be lost on history, but the significance will not. 
The Ford-Carter years can be viewed the same way, especially Carter -a harmless president in a harmless time. That is probably how history will rememberJim­my Carter. But we are entering a new era now, accord­ing to the cycle, and, for better or worse, Ronald Reagan is at the helm. You can take that any way you want to. 

,----Do You Know?----,
_The_Qhser.Y-er_ 

Is "FIGHTING IRISH BEER" 
Design Editor..................... Margaret Kruse 
Design Assistants ..........................•.. Pat Fox Kathy Crosset, Tim Neely 

available at yourfavorite Pub, Saloon,
Typesetter ............................... Bruce Oakley News Editor........................... Tom jackman Night News Editor................ Bruce Oakley Copy Editors....................... Tim Vercellotti 

Bar, Tavern or drinking emporium? 
Bruce Oakley Features Layout.................. Scoop SuUivan Tim Neely 

ASK-or contacta Leprechaun.
Sports Copy Editor ......... Michael Ortman Typists ................... Cindy "Too TaU" Jones Systems Control ...........•....... Bruce Oakley ND Day Editor........................ Megan Boyle SMC Day Editor......................)ohn Higgins Ad Design.............•.•.••..•............ Dave Wood 




-----------------,I I 
Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class 

I The Gipper turns up as President, 1 
postage paid, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. The Observer Is a member of the 

I I

let's turn one up for him. 
Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 


·----------------~ 
Thursday Night 1 

Corby's Inaugural Special  I 1I  
I  

The Observer Thursday, January 22, 1981 -page 3 

Living proof that Psych Services is indeed necessary at Notre Dame. (Photo by Rachel Blount) 


People's Court tries officials 
EVANSVILLE, Ind. (AP)-The Na­tional Prisoners Rights Union, made up of county jail inmates, their families and supporters, has set Tuesday as the date for a planned "trial" oflocal officials. 
The trial by the so-called "People's Court" was postponed from this week to next after James Bell Yager, the leader of the prisoners rights group, was trans­ferred from the county jail in Evansvllle to a federal prison in Ox­ford, Wis. 
Yager, a 47-year-old jailhouse lawyer, gained national attention for helping numerous jail inmates prepare their defenses. Last week, he chose to boycott his own trial in Evansville to protest Judge Thomas Swain's refusal to grant him a con­tinuance. 
Yager was convicted in Vander· 
Buy 
tion.  It  could  easily  amount  to  
several million dollars  -and tax­ 
payers would pay it.  

Observer 
Classifieds 
burgh Superior Court last week on theft, forgery and habitual criminal charges. Swain sentenced him to 42 years in prison. 
Following Yager's conviction, members of the prisoners rights group announced that Swain and other court and law enforcement of­ficials would be tried by a people's court on charges of obstructing justice. 
They said officials found ''guilty" could face fines, jail terms or "worse." Yager said "worse" translates into "public ridicule." 
Yager has said that if the "defendants" are found guilty, "our people wlll perform citizens' arrests on everyone convicted, including the judge, and take them to the police station for booking." 
The announcement prompted an angry response last week from Sheriff James DeGroote, who told Phyllis Short, executive secretary of the prisoners group, that he intends to stop the trial "by whatever means, or force, called for." 
"There is absolutely no possible way I am going to allow any citizens group to take the law Into their own hands," DeGroote said In an open letter to Mrs. Short. 
He added: "if you and your 'People's Court'are so intent on 


All Clubs and 

...-Organizations· 

Final applications for 
STUDENT ACTIVITIES FUNDS are nowbeing taken. Please fill out application in the Student Activities office, 
lst Floor LaFortune ._ DEADLINE Monday, January 26,5 :oo pm. 
followingJames Yager (whom I con­sider a psychopath, a liar, a coward, a parasite a societal mis-fit and a true loser) need I remind each of you where Yager is ...and will be for the next 42 years?" 
In an open response to the sheriff, Mrs. Short said group members "fully intend to pursue our endeavor to the ultimate and to reach ourgoal, devoid of being further intimidated or threatened by your office and/or your associates." · 
...Ransom 
Continuedfrom page I 
Instead, the agreement provides for establishing a presidential com­mission to decide any compensa­
Q. How about damage to the U.S. Embassy and other U.S. property in Iran? 
, A. Iran is absolved of respon­sibility, despite there being ample precedent for compensation by host countries when damage is done to property ofother nations. 


and Money Pick-up Thurs. 4:30-6:00 
/ 

2nd Floor LaFortune 
Thursday 9-11 
Farley night 

Friday 9:00-? 


TomKovnick Sam Dismond 
Gran Cleveland Greg Dallessandro and more 

Saturday 
9:00-10:00  Greg Butler on guitar  
11 :00-11 :45  Pat Byrnes with  
comedy  

12:00-? Mark Davis with magic 
VAN LINES IS BACK 
STARTS THIS WEEKEND Every Friday 6 -12 pm 
.50 round trip
Saturday 4 -12 pm 

Departs Main Circle ON THE HOUR (pay as you hoard, no tickets, TOWN & COUNTRY­UNIVERSITY PARK-FORUM-and more 

The Observer Thursday,January 22, 1981 -page 4 
Doctors battle faith 

INDL.NAPOUS (AP) -An offi­cial of Riley Children's Hospital ob­tained a temporary emergency order which enabled physicians to give a 4-year-old Anderson girl emergency blood transfusions over the objectins ofher parents. 
The parents, Donnie and Vickie Whittle, are members of jehovah's Witnesses. They refused to aut­horize the blood transfusions for Felicia B. Whittle, according to Riley 






thursday night filmseries 
A grouping of distinguished films shown in conjunction with the course GOTH 320 (Aspects of Cinema: Image & Ideology) and sponsored by the Department of Com· munlcation & Theatre. 
All showings at the Annenberg Auditorium, the Snite Museum of Art, Notre Dame Campus at 7:30 P.M. Individual Admissions $1.00 Series Ticket: 13 films for $10.00 
Thursday, January 22 

Bicycle Thief Dir. by Vittorio De Sica (Italy) 1948 One of the great masterpieces of the Italian Neo-realist school, this poignant film was instrumental in establishing the reputation of De Sica as a director and of Cesare Zavat­tini, his frequent collaborator, as screenwriter. 
Thursday, January 29 

A Nous La Llberte Dir. by Rene Clair (France) 1931 From the early sound period, this memorable film by one of the great masters shows that the wonderful comic spirit of the 20's cinema was alive and well in France. A must for anyone who wants a hearty laugh at the expense of the technological society. 
Thursday, February 5 

Tom Jones Dir. by Tony Richardson (Great Britain) 1963 Continuing in the comic mood, this rollicking adaptation of Henry Fielding is more than a match for the February blahs. With Albert Finney, Susannah York and Hugh Griffith having the times of their lives in bawdy Old England. 
Thursday, February 12 

If ••• Dir. by Lindsay Anderson (Great Britain) 1969 
A rhetorical question asked in the fantasy-ridden confines 
of an English boarding school. A brilliant and special film 
which explores all the metaphoric possibilities of the 
cinema in a style full of wit and verve. With Malcolm 
McDowell in his first major role. 
Thursday, February 19 

Five Easy Pieces Dir. by Bob Rafleson (U.S.A.) 1970 Jack Nicholson, Karen Black and Susan Anspach star in an intense and thoughtful variation of the theme of the American Drifter. The self-deprecating performance by Nicholson is probably one of his best, in this intelligent study of a side of American life not always treated with the kind of insight displayed by Rafleson here. 
Thursday, February 26 

To Catch a Thief Dir. by Alfred Hitchcock (U.S.A.) 1955 With Cary Grant as the Cat Burglar (reformed, of course) and Grace Kelly as everybody's favorite ice cube doing a Hitchcock-fandango around the usual "fabulous" jewels on the French Riviera. 
Thursday, March 5 

The Conformist Dir. by Bernardo Bartolucci (Italy) 1970 
A sumptuous study of the social decay which both creates, and is created by, Fascist ideologies. Alberto Moravia's tex­tured novel is given a definitive treatment in Bartolucci's version. Dominique Sanda and Jean-Louis Trintignant give performances which are full of subtlety and repressed pas­sion. A beautiful film. 
Thursday, March 12 
The Discreet Charm of the Bourgeoisie Dir. by 
Luis Bunuel (France) 1972 The old master is at it again, tweaking the nose of his favorite targets: class privilege, social stuffiness, linear nar­rative. A surreal social comedy full of innuendo and black humor, light as a souffle, rich as a lobster. With Fernando Rey and Stephana Audran. 
Thursday, March 26 
Will Penny Dir. by Tom Gries (U.S.A.) 1968 Charlton Heston, Jean Hackett, and Bruce Dern in one of the great-though often overlooked-of Westerns. A dusty, tough, yet moving story set in the classical vein of the genre. 
Thursday, April 2 
Xala Dir. by Ousmane Sembene (Senegal) 1974 Banned in its home country, this fierce and wildly funny satire of the pitfalls of independence is a demonstration of the solid work by one of the most important of emerging African directors. 
Thursday, April 9 
VIolette Dir. by Claude Chabrol (France) 1978 Continuing his meticulous double study of bourgeoisie stupidity and of the parameters of the detective genre, Chabrol here turns to an actual case history of a young woman with a double life who poisons her parents. As Chabrol turns his ascetic eye on the character of Violette Noziere (beautifully played by Isabelle Huppert), we see a whole other dimension to the affair. 
Thursday, April 23 
The Tree of the Wooden Clogs Dir. by Ermanno 
Olmi (Italy) 1978 The Golden Prize Winner at Cannes in 1978 and of the Best Foreign Film Award by the New York Critics Film Circle is a mute testimony of the inadequacy of such honors. It is, simply, a great work of art, suffused with a poetic narrative which seems to grow from the Lombard earth in which it is set. 
Thursday, April 30 
Woyzeck Dir. by Werner Herzog (Germany) 1978 Klaus Kinski seems to have been born to play this role, originally the product of Georg Buchner's pen in 1836, fust a few months before the playwright's death at the age of 
23. A torchbearer of modernism, this great work is given yet another dimension by the direction of one of the most sigr.ificant artists of the New German School. 

administrator Charles A. Richmond 
The girl was listed in fair condi­tion in the intensive care unit ofthe hospital. 
judge Victor S. Pfau appointed Richmond as the girl's guardian for 60days. 
In asking Monday night for the emergency order, Richmond told Pfau that physicians did not believe they could wait until the scheduled 11 am. hearing Tuesday for Good­man to make the blood transfusions without risk ofthe youngster dying. 
Dr. Mark Winermon, Riley's chief pediatrician, said ifthe girl were not permitted to receive the necessary treatment "the deteriorating process will continue as it is continuing now." 
The 31-year-old father testified· briefly, saying that despite state­ments of the physicians, "I still have to go with my faith." 
Afterwards, Whittle said he did not believe that he was stripped of his constitutional rights by Good­man's ruling, saying, "No, not really. He (Goodman) let me tell my views." 
Professor discpsses understanding 
"Should We Believe What We Do Not Understand?" is the question .to be explored by a University ofNotre Dame faculty member in a talk at 
7:30 p.m. on Thursday, jan. 22 in Notre Dame's Memorial library Lounge. 
Dr. David Schindler, an assistant professor in the General Program of Liberal Studies, which is sponsoring his talk, is in his second year at Notre Dame. Schindler leads great books seminars and teaches philosophy and theology tutorials. 
Since 1974 Schindler ha~ been as=­sistant editor of Communio Inter­national Catholic Review, and his articles have appeared in several journals including Communio, The Thomist and the International Philosophical Quarterly. He is chairman ofthe philosophy commit­tee of a four-year study of the "Foundations of Moral Education" sponsored by the Inter-University Committee on Research and Policy Studies. 
Schindler earned his doctorate at the Claremont Graduate School in 1976 where he studied theology and philosophy of religion. In 197 4-75 he was a Fulbright Scholar at the Uni­versity oflnnsbruck. 
Committee plans formal 
The Senior Formal Committee has announced that Saturday, March 28 is the date for the annual event. 
like last year, the formal will be held in the Chicago Marriott bal­lroom. The bid price, tentatively set at S60, includes an hors' doeuvres dinner for two, and dancing. The rate for a single, double, or triple room in the Marriott will run about 
$40. A raffle will be held at Senior Bar Thursday night, Feb. 26, to give away a free bid. 
Formal registration begins March 2 and will continue through March 
6. Room reservations may be made at the same time bids are purchased. 
In gathering information concern­ing activities in Chicago during Senior Formal weekend, committee members found that My Fair Lady with Rex Harrison will be playing at the Arie Crown Theatre. 

--------------~-------------­
The Observer Thursday, january 22, 1981 -page 5 
Conttm1ed from page 1 Bruce lamgen, the charge d'affaires their release on Tuesday "was a and senior diplomat in the U.S. Em­criminal act that should be con­"Criminal acts ought to be con­bassy when it was seiged. 
demned by all law-loving people of 

Fri. & Sat

lkmned by all law loving, decent In his statement at the Frankfurt the world." 
people of the world. It's been in airport after meeting the former 4 to 11 Our Specialty abominable circumstances that will hostages, Carter said the takeover of He described his meeting with never be forgotten." the U.S. Embassy on Nov. ,1979 and them as "the most moving JnLl $1.00 off any size stuffed pizza 
Some former hostages gathered the holding of the hostages until gratifying act" in his life. on a balcony outside their hospital with student ID rooms, waving and clapping as Car­


=====================================.• coupongoodthruFeb.28
ter's limousine drove up. Several of them, including Marine guards, 1,1123 Spring Street 256-2620 wore only light T-shirts and blue 
Disney movesMusic L-------------------------~
pajama bottoms in the sub-freezing night air. The Marines appeared to have new haircuts. ­





I-----------------,
A Carter aide said the private, 80­
Center to Midwest 
minute meeting was "emotional to 
I 1!1:~ Friday Night I
the point of awkwardness" -so moving that a photographer was RICHMOND, Ind. (AP)· Walt Dis­warehouse and office workers. 

I ·-·-·-I 
asked to stop taking pictures. Carter ney Music Co. says it will move its The Richmond center will con­spokesman Jody Powell said that as record and tape distribution centers solidate distribution centers now I I the former president shook hands to this city on the Indiana-Ohio bor­located in Anaheim, Calif. and New 
with each freed captive, "tears were der because of its location in the York City. 
center ofthe nation. Wood said he expects the first hostages' and Carter's." The announcement was made shipments from the new center to 
Former Secretary ofState Edmund Tuesday by John R Wood, produc­begin in late March. 1 2 mixed drinksfor I Muskic said Carter and hi!t party tion manager for Walt Disney Music The firm distributes Disneyland­received "a very warm, very friendly Co., of Burbank, Calif. Buena Vista Record Co. selections, wdling in everybody's eyes, tht" I Cocktail Hour 3 -8 I 
1 the priceofone. I 
reception." Wood, who will move here to which are primarily children's As Carter left the hospital after an direct the distribution center, said records and tapes. hour and 20 minutes, he embraced the local staff will consist ofabout 35 The firm will be located in a large 
1 $2.00 pitchers i
warehuse next door to PRC record­ing Inc. 
Photograph award 
ND student wins prize 
An award winning picture, taken States, Canada and Mexico with by John Eugene Macor, Observer more than 375,000 entries. photo editor, will be on display In Macor, a Notre Dame junior, Is the Equitable Gallery In New York represented by a black-and-white City, Feb. 3-27, as part of a presenta­picture of a mother and her child at tion of 800 finalists In the Kodak In­lakeside during sunset. It was a win· ternational Newspaper Snapshot ner in the Bridgewater Courier­Awards. He also received a Kodak News' summer snapshot contest and Centennial commemorative plate as such was submitted to the inter­with an 1890 picture-taking scene In national competition where it won a the center as a part ofthe company's certificate of merit. celebration of Its IOOth anniversary The Equitable Gallery is at 1285 ln 1980. Avenue ofthe Americas and Is open 
The exhibit lm:'udes the winners to the public, free ofcharge, from 10 oflocal summer c•'',tests conducted a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through by 1~2 newspar.~.rs In the United Friday. 




L----------------~ 
STUDENTUNIONRECORDSTORE.....____...........__,____JVE'VEMOVED! 
LOCATION: first floor LaFortune  PRICES:  
HOURS:  Mon-Fri  9:00-5:00  LIST  YOU PAY  TAPES  
WHAT: orderingMon-Weds 9:00-5:00  
Thurs 9:00-12:00noon  $ 5.98  s 4.19  s 4.69  
IN STOCK SPECIALS  6.98  4.85  5.35  
Springsteen-RIVER  7.98  5.45  5.95  
Elvis Costello-TAKING LIBERTIES Grover Washington· WINE LIGHT  8.98  5.99  6.49  
john Lennon -DOUBLE FANTASY  
Ear/ Klugh -LATENIGHTGUITAR  
Eagles-LIVE  

Beatings, robbery 
Hostages reveal mistreattnent 
(AP) -Stories of beatings and her had died. He didn't learn that she among the 13 blacks and women · other physical and mental abuse by was alive until he arrived with the 
released within a couple ofweeks af­their Iranian captors surfaced yes­other freed hostages early W ednes­ter the storming of the embassy on 
terday as the 52 emancipated day at a U.S. military hospital in Nov. 4, 1979, said in an Interview American hostages telephoned Wiesbaden. 
Tuesday that the hostages suffered home to assure their relatives they A colonel from Illinois said he mostly "mental abuse." · are now "doing fine." 
spent a month in a "dungeon" and Ms. Montagne, who wouldn't talk The reports prompted U.S. offi­that the Iranians ransacked his house about her ordeal until the other . cials to accuse the Iranian militants in Tehran and took all his posses­captives were free, said the Iranian of"serious mistreatment" ofsome of 
sions. militants forced her to play Russian the Americans during the 444 days "Most of them lost everything," roulette in an effort to obtain in­they were held hostage. ex-hostage Richard Morefield, con­formation. 
State Department spokesmanJack sul general at the U.S. embassy in Richard Queen, who was released Cannon said in Wiesbaden, West 
Tehran, told his wife in San Diego. "I after 250 days because ofillness, said Germany, where the ex-hostages are walked out with my wedding ring, in television interviews Tuesday and undergoing medical examinations, 
and I had to fight for that." Wednesday that he and other that evidence of the mistreatment 
Morefield's wife, Dorothea, said hostages were held for nearly five was gleaned from preliminary con­
the Iranians "played unbelievably months in a windowless warehouse versations with the victims. 
cruel games." basement they called "The Mush­Cannon said officials have 
"His disgust for his captors came room Inn," where they were forbid· ' "evidence of serious mistreatment 
through in every way," she said. den to talk and were allowed just 20 in a number of cases during the 
Elizabeth Montagne, who was minutes of fresh air a week. period of their captivity." In phone calls to their relatives ! back home in the predaw_n hours jWednesday, many ofthe ex-captives 
The can is green I 

didn't talk about what had hap­
pened, some suggesting there would 
The beer is golden I ­
be more to tell later. 
Some did. 
A Massachusetts man said he was beaten and pliiced in solitary 
It was brewed by Leprechauns? 
confinement for a total of five 
months for repeated attempts to 
I suppose it's possible-
escape. A young Marine sergeant from Texas, who had a tooth knocked out 

FIGHTING IRISH 
by an Iranian guard, said he was told 
by an interrogater trying to extract 
information from him that his mot-


r--------------,-----------·
The late afternoon sun glistens offofone of the few remaining ic:lcles. (Photo U)!]ohn Macor) 
.Hostages 
Thursday, january 22, 1981 -page 6



Editorials 
Can business ethics, personal morality mix? 
Colman McCarthy 
WASHINGTON -As the na­tion's leading banker, Walter Wriston of Citicorp, the global power which has offices in 92 countries, can rightly command attention when holding forth on the value of money. It's when he talks about values themselves­values based on moral and ethical codes-that trouble starts. 
In a recent New Yorker article on Citicorp, Wriston told the in­terviewer tha current" values are topsy-turvy. It boggles the mind -the transfer of personal in­tegrity to institutional integrity. Now college students have a mix..:d dormitory, men live on one floor and women on the next, and they all sit around worrying about whether or not General Motors is being honest. When I was in col-· lege it was different. We are con­cerned about personal values. I believe that there are no institu­tional values, only personal ones." 
The Wriston philosophy is chilling. Though he is to be thanked for publicly expressing so Brazenly what other men of financial power discreetly whisper only inside their clubrooms, Wriston is advancing the dangerous idea that institu­tions should be allowed to func­tion outside the moral and ethical order. 
The Wriston brow prefers to be furrowed about campus hanky­panky. The morality of a General Motors' decision, say, to delay the marketing of life-saving air bags some years back, is not the public's concern. According to the thinking that institutions should be value-free, a vice presi­dent for an international bank is right to restrain himself from stealing his secretary's purse which she forgetfully leaves on her desk when she goes to the water cooler. But he is expected to say nothing when an institu­tiona! decision is made that denies equal opportunity to women and minorities or decisions that ignore public health, orjustice. 
This division of morality into personal and institutional realms, and never the twain shall meet, is not new with Wriston. What is astonishing, though, is that someone of his rank and power fails to understand what so many others see as fundamental. In "An American Life," Jeb Magruder, one ·of the Watergate criminals, says of himself and the others that "we had the private morality but not a sense of public morality." 
Magruder, like Wriston, was the ideal college boy: a moralist when among the coeds but amoral when reflecting on the use of in­stitutional power. Magruder's discovery that it wasn't enough to be personally moral is one that is routinely made by others in government. In the new book, "Personal Values in Public Policy," a government consultant was quoted as saying that'' alot of decision-making takes place in government as adversary or ad­vocacy proceedings rather than on the basis of moral judg­ments ... You make the best argu­ment that you can possibly make as a lawyer would make it in litigating a case for his client ­quite independent of whether or not you think it's the right thing to do." 
Underlying the Wriston philosophy -or rather the philosophy that has Wriston as its latest and bluntest cheerleader­is the notion that institutins (corporations, unions, banks, clubs, churches, governments and schools) function best under anonymity. Faceless, they easily become soulless. Should they go further and become lawless, the outrage over their crimes is muted because the victimization is im­personal. The corporate price fixer never sees those whom he cheats and the cheated all too of­ten never know that they were taken. 
But the effect of an institution's value-free or value-blind deci­sions are felt, even if it must be described fuzzily as "the decline of quality" or "the lowering of standards." In the end, institu­tional behavior should be held to as much moral accountability as personal behavior. And perhaps more, because the collective power of a wealthy multinational institution has the potential for greater destructiveness than an anti-social act of the lone in­dividual. As the old English verse goes: 
the law locks up both man 
and woman who steal the 
goose froom off the com­
mon but lets the greater 
felon loose who steals the 
common from the goose. 

Pailic in the real estate market · 

Art Buchwald 
Several weeks ago, the stock could make so many bulls into price is going to tumble." 
is soon out nailing a "For Sale" but I offer to sell him mine for market went into a panic when a bears overnight, whether the "But you told me two days ago sign on his door. A few minutes $40,000, and he says he'll take it. 
man in Florida, who runs a stock market was a safe invest­it was going to go up!" 
later, Symington has one on his In my nightmare I move into a private service for investors, ment. "Don't ask questions. I've 
house, and so does Cafritz, Con­Holiday Inn and get a call from called up 3,000 of his clients and Also, if one man could affect been studying the classified ads 
nolly, Seigel and Winston. Longworth, who says, "Well,told them to sell all their stock. the stock markt with one and it's time to bail out." 
Word sweeps like a brushfire was I right or was I wrong?"
The next morning, Wall Street telephone call, what about the I wake up my wife and say, through the neighborhood. The "You couldn't have been more was in a panic and everyone was other markets -particularly the "We have to sell the house." 
right. I've never seen the realTower Apartments, theselling. Apparently, thousands of real estate market, which "When?" she wants to know. 
estate market in this town take a 
sane, educated people, who everyone says is overinflated? "Right now. I just got a call Westchester and the Colonnade nose dive like this. I managed to handle billions of dollars of in­I have this nightmare that early from Longworth and he says we also put up" For Sale" signs, and 
sell out at $40.000." vestments, got caught up in the one morning I am going to get a have to sell immediately, or we'll by the time the real estate markets "The reason I'm callng," selling fever at the same time. phone call from my real estate lose our shirts. I'll go down into open in the morning, everyone is Longworth says, "is that I've just And people all over America broker, Longworth, who savs. the basement and make a "For standing in front of his house or · been studying the new indicators, started wondering, if one man "Sell your house right away. The Sale". sign. You clean up the apartment building, waiting to and it's now time to buy real 

house and repaint the kitchen." "At four o'clock in the mor­ning?" 
"We have to move fast before other people in the neighborhood are tipped off." 
I put on my bathrobe, and go down to the cellar and nail a piece of plywood onto a stake, and paint "For Sale" in large black letters. 
My wife is on the ladder, paint­ing the ceiling. "Hurry up," I tell her, "before it's too late." 
"Where are we going to live if we sell the house." 
"Don't ask stupid questions. We've got to get rid of this place before the market collapses." 
At five o'clck in the morning I'm driving the "For Sale" sign into the ground. My neighbor Ewing hears me and comes out in his bathrobe. "What the hell are you doing?" 
I say, ''I'm only telling you this because I'm yourfriend. The real estate market is going to collapse as soon as the market opens this morning. I got it on the hot line from my broker, and he hasn't been wrong since I subscribed to his service." 
Ewing says, "Thanks for tellng me" and rushes back into his house to make a" For Sale" sign. Apparently, he tells Sullivan, who lives next door, and Sullivan sell. As each hour passes, every homeowner keeps lowering his price. Houses that people wouldn't have sold for $200,000 are now going for $125,000. Then they drop to $90,000, $80,000, $70,000. But there are still no takers. Guggenheim, in despera­tion, offers to sell me his house for $50,000, completely furnished, 
estate again." 
I wake up my wife. "Get dressed. We have to go over and see Guggenheim about buying our house." "For how much?" 
"If  he  subscribes  to  
Longworth's  service  we'll  be  
lucky  if  he  gives  it  to  us  for  
$200,000."  


Editorial Board and Department Managers 
Editor-in-Cbtef...................................... Paul Mullaney Sports Editor...........................................Beth Hulfman Managing Editor..........................................Mark Rust Features Editor.......................................Molly Woulfe
The Observer is an independent newspaper published by the students of the 
Editorials Editor.............................. Michael Onufrak Pboto Editor ...............................................John Macor
University of Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. It does not ~ecessarily 
Senior Copy Edttor.....................Mary Fran Callahan 
reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news 1s reported 
Executive News Editor.........................TomJackman Business Manager ............................... , ..Greg Hedges
as accurately and as objectively as possible. Editorials represent the opinion of a 
News Editor...............................................Pam Degnan Controller........................................................Jim Rudd
majority of the Editorial Board ..Com":lentaries, opinions, and letters are th.e views 
News Editor ...............................................Lynne Daley Advertising Manager................. ................Mark Ellis
of their authors. Column space IS available to all members of the commumty, and 
SMC Executive Editor..........................Margi.e Brassll Circulation Manager.......................... .Beth Hackett 
the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged. 
SMC News Editor...................................... Marv Leavitt Production Manager.....: ................... _r•.Jhn McGrath 



Features 
Thursday, January 22, 1981 -page 7 
Thorogood leads the band In its charging rhythm 
beneath Caner's melody, and the twangy guitarist can 


Trivia Quiz X: 
make a standard 1-IV-V-IV-1 blues progression sound like a fresh new riff. Meanwhile, Caner is laying down a funky, baritone solo that sounds like something 

True or False?
Clarence Clemons might have done if he were still withJames Brown. The album's opening cut may be the standout, a 
W
elcome back, trivia funs! Again this semester, I will attempt to super version of Willie Dixon's "I'm Wanted," which 
stump you with an assonment of rock trivia quizzes. Also, the sounds written specifically for t this band. As in 
$10 prize to the person with the most correct answers is back. The "Cocaine Blues" or "It Wasn't Me," Thorogood plays 
answers to the last trivia quiz, which were inadvertently not published before break, appear below this week's quiz. There was no winner on
the fugitive role well, with the band frantically churn­that quiz. Six of last year's nine quizzes were that way, a situation I
ing away as if they were running from something. It's a hope to see rectified this time around.
typical tempo for Thorogood -fast. Double time seems to be the norm for the 
In pursuit of that goal, the first quiz of 1981 is a true-and-false type. Determine whether each statement below is true or false. Ifyou ft·el it Destroyers, especially on a re-make of "Nighttime," is false, answer the question in parentheses after it.
which not only supersedes the version from the first 
album, but, sorry to say, blows the). Geils version out I. "Whole Lotta Love" was Led Zeppelin's only Top Ten hit singk,
of the water. Thorugood's guitar seems to be exhort­based upon the Billboard charts. (Name one other.)
ing the rest ofthe band to catch up to him as he chugs 2. "Hey Jude" by the Beatles was the first single of over seven
through these riffs at a wicked pace. It's not an easy minutes' duration to make"Billboard's top ten. ( Namt· the first, by title 

task, but drummerJeff Simon and bassist Billy Blough and anist.)
arc up to it. 
3. BillyJoel's first solo album wasPiano Man. (Name it.)
More 
Thorogood could be giving us an idea of the direc­4. The first rock-era group to have two consecutive number onetion he's headed with an entirely different number, singles was the Beatles. (What group did it first?) 
Johnny Lee Hooker's "One Way Ticket." Thorogood's 5. The soul group known as the Moments, upon changing labels,

George Thorogood 
guitar phrasing is very faithful to the Hooker style, and changed its name to Ray, Goodman, and Brown. (What group changedthe arrangement is, like Hooker's, very spare and slow. 
its name to Ray, Goodman, and Brown?)
But Thorogood has the specter of Hooker looking 6. The Carpenters' album Ticket to Ride was originally called Theover his shoulder while he sings, and George just can't

and the Destroyers 
Carpenters. (What was its original title?)
match the angst that Hooker produces so naturally. I 7. All ofthe following spons heroes have made records: Muhammadmean, when Johnny Lee says, "my baby left me," you All, Dave Schultz, Greg Luzinski, Terry Bradshaw. (Which ofthese fourjust kind of nod your head and say, "yeah, too bad."
(Rounder) 
has not?)
Thorogood, who always had the tendency to make me 8. The biggest hit by a British anist on the American soul charts waslaugh ("One Bourbon, One Scotch, One Beer," "You Sexy Thing" by Hot Chocolate. (What was It?)
"Cocaine Blues"), doesn't have that blues credibility
I
t's becoming more and more difficult to differen­9. The song originally intended as the American followup to theyet.
tiate between the blues and rhythm 'n' blues with Beatles' "I Want to Hold Your Hand" was "Roll Over Beethoven." In­George is much more at home with stufflike HoundGeorge Thorogood, and that's fine with me. 
stead, "Can't Buy Me Love" was chosen. (What was Intended as theDog Taylor's "Just Can't Make It," or Elmore James'Thorogood heads further away from the mainstream original followup?)
"Goodbye Baby," which is highlighted by the raspy
on Mort! George Thorogood and the Destroyers, a vibrato ofsax man Carteras he honks out a fine bridge. 
10. Seventh Sojourn was the Moody Blues' seventh album. (Whatreversal of the trend you expect from most rapidly was?)
Upbeat tunes like Carl Perkins' "Restless" or"House of
rising blues/rock bands, while covering such masters Blue Lights" spotlight Thorogood's slurring, rollicking 
The answers to the last quiz before break are as follows: ( 1 ) Paul as Hound Dog Taylor, Elmore James, and several ot­
McCanney wrote The Family Way and the theme song for Live and
guitar style, while showing off the numerous in­hers, conforming their works to his own distinctive Let Die; (2) Roy Wood was the Move member who formed thefluences that have made his music unique.
style. 
Electric Light Orchestra; (3) Cliff Richard was the British Elvis Pres­All told, More could be Thorogood's finest album,
Thorogood is a constant reminder of the value of and it should excite those who were afraidMoveItOn 
ley; ( 4) Jeff Beck left the Yardbirds to form his own group; ( 5) Ianthat vanishing breed, the Independent record label. 
Stewan was the sixth Rolling Stone; ( 6) Gordon Sinclair was the ol­Over foretold a sellout. In filet, Thorogood is headed inThey expose us to varieties of music which the con­dest person ever to make the top 40, with his version of "Thethe other direction -and I'm excited.
glomerates aren't willing to take a chance on, and they Americans"; (7) Terry Jacks was the ex-Poppy Family member whooften discover future stars who have been passed up 

Tom jackman 
had a nu.mber one record as a solo; ( 8) David Gates wrote the two hitby the big studios. Marshall Chess, working out ofthe songs in the mid-sixties before becoming lead singer of Bread; (9)trunk ofhis car, discovered some ofthe greatest blues Vince Everett was the Elvis Presley sound-alike; and ( 10) Johnnyanl'lts ofall time for Chess Records. Rounder Records, Crawford was the Mouseketeer who sang "Cindy's Binhday" andtraditionally a bluegrass-folk-country label, took a "Your Nose Is Gonna Grow."
chance on George Thorogood after he was snubbed 
by MCA. I for one am awfully glad they did. 

Tim Neely 
It doesn't seem like almost three years since Thorogood's last release, MoveIt On Over, (disregard please MCA's release ofdusty vault tapes in the inter­Im), but he's been using that time to sharpen up his 

Bruce : is it worth it? 
blues licks. He has also added a sax player, Hank Car­
ter, to the Delaware Destroyers. Carter gets to show 
W
ell, we all lined up for the lottery, and we all lined up for tickets, off his chops early, on More's second tune, the in­and now he's finally here. I wonder If going to a Bruce strumental "Kids From Philly," and it's also a great ex­Springsteen concen is wonh all the hassle? 
ampk of Thoro~ood's facility with the blues. 
Ofcourse, people as crazy about the Boss as Notre Dame is would cross dozens ofmineflelds just to praise the ground Bruce trods upon. On the night of the concen, there'll be so many Springsteen funatics contained group has never done before. He is Roy Bit­

drooling over thier souvenir programs and "Boss" t-shirts in the ACC, 
tan ofSpringsteen's E Street Band, who plays various 




Dire Straits 
you'll think you were in Hoboken, not South Bend. keyboard instruments. Thanks to the production of 
This, in itself, isn't so bad -heroes are sparse these days, and the the band's leader Mark Knopfler and Springsteen's en­
themes that Springsteen specializes in (loneliness, isolation, escape,
Making Movies 
gineer Jimmy Iovine, piano and organ become 
and hope) touch many young prisoners oftoday's urban and suburban dominant in roughly half the songs, most notably in 
doldrums deeply. This simply proves that the man Is an anlst with the "Tunnel of Love," especially its intro; and in the first 
ability to reach vast numbers in a highly personal way. Bruce's music


(Warner Bros.) 
single from the album, "Skateaway." The whole al­
is, for many, the purest expression of their own frustrations with bum. as a result, sounds different than its predeces­
W
society and the establishment. hen Dire Straits first arrived on the music scene sors. 
The last time the Boss performed in the ACC, I decided to go "just to 
early in 1979 with "Sultans ofSwing," they were A difference is somewhat evident in Knopfler's 
see what all the fuss is about." I remember when he threw himselfout 
hailed as one of the freshest and most exciting new lyrics as well. Making Movies is an aptly-named LP, 
into the audience in the middle of the second number. "There's no groups in quite some time. Both that single and their for each of the seven songs is like its own short flick. 
way this guy is going to keep this momentum up for long," I said to first a album, Dire Straits, made the top five on the 
True, much of the material on Dire Straits and Com· myselfchans. Lead singer and guitarist Mark Knopfler ended munique was similar In this respect. But while the 
But he did. For three hours. Nonstop. I became a believer. up doing session work for such standouts as Bob songs on the other albums had a British feel to them, 
One writer once said, "I have seen the future ofrock and roll, and he Dylan, and their distinctive sound became widely Im­including geographical references obscure to most 
Is Bruce Springsteen." After that concen two years ago, I would have Itated, but never duplicated. Stateslders, the "movies" scripted here are more 
to agree. Live, on stage, no one can touch him. Such was the case with their second album, Com­American. In filet, some of the settings (the streets, 
But the question Is, is it wonh all the hassle? If Bruce repeats the munique, which, while a high quality album, was very amusement parks, et al.) are vaguely reminiscent of 
intensity with which he played last time in the ACC, it will be. Ifhe fulls similar to its predecessor. Possibly as a result of this, Springsteen's. 
to do so, it will be one of the biggest disappointments in my recent the mid-1979 release had nowhere near the sales and However, Knopfler manages to get around that 
history.chan action ofthe first album. Dire Straits was looked potential problem. His voice, while not great, is better 
1 have to review the concen. I don't really want to do it. 1 was upon in some circles as a one-hit wonder. However, than Springsteen's; and enough of the old Dire Straits 
disappointed by Bruce's last album and I have the strangest feeling I'll the band's new album,MakingMovies, should change sound Is retained to make claims that he is attempting 
be disappointed by this concen. I keep wondering ifhe can match the all that. to become a British Springsteen basically unfounded. 
sheer vitality ofhis last show here. Good concens are a rarity at Notre Despite a layoff from recording for nearly a year and 
Finally, Warner Brothers has list-priced Making 
Dame, mainly because our crowds are listless and passive -not a a half, the shrinkage of the band from four to three Movies at $7.98, as opposed to the S8.981ist given to 
Springsteen sort of gathering. But ifanyone can Instill a little excite· (David Knopfler, Mark's brother, left the group), and its other major anists. Perhaps they are taking the 
ment into a group, the Boss can. Ifhe does, the concen will be a good their third set of producers In as many albums, the relatively low production costs (only four musicians 
one. If he can't, he probably won't put up with it and he'll probably Straits have come out with thc:lr best LP so far. It and a short time in the studio) into account. Or, per­
leave. As a result, the quality ofthe performance depends mostly uponcombines many of the excellent features of their haps, they no longer consider Dire Straits a "major" 
the people who stood in line to see the show. debut album with the pervasive Influence of Bruce anistic group because of their long layoff. Making 
Therefore, here's a message to all those who bought tickets for the Springsteen and friends, and the end result Is superb. Movies should change that, for it Is their best album so 
biggest musical event this year: don't make me write a negative review Musically, they have never sounded better. The far, and Is deserving of the same success their debut 
--have fun, or else. ampllflcd acoustic guitar which has become their album had. 
Otherwise, it won't be wonh it. trademark Is still there, but it Is not nearly as dominant 
Tim Neely 

&oop Sullivan
as It used to be. Instead, the three-man band employs a 
session musician, something the usually self­
-

--~------------------------.
-----------------------~--------------------------­
Ihe<:lbsenB===================== 


~c:}c]l~~=======================T=h=u=rs=da=y=,)=m=u=~==22=,=19=8=1===pa=g==e8 
Campus 

•4:30 
p.m. -rotc awards: change ofcommand, naval rotc," stepan center. 

•6:30 
p.m. -organizational meeting for primary day school, 2nd floor Iafortune, north alcove. 

•7,9,11 
p.m. -harold and maude, thursday and friday, engineering auditorium, Sl. 

•7:30 
p.m. -lecture: "should we believe that we ~annot un­derstand?" professor david schindler, n.d. memorial library lounge, sponsored by the general program of liberal


-
studies. 
•7:30 
p.m. -film: "bicycle thief', annenberg auditorium, ( snite museum), sponsored by the department of communica­tion and theatre. 

•7:30 
p.m. -basketball: n.d. women vs valporaiso, a c.c. 

•7:30 
p.m. -meeting: faculty senate, room 202, c.c.e. 

•8:00 
p.m. -recital: professor bruce gustafson, harpsichord, stapleton lounge, smc. 

•8:00 
p.m. lecture: "american pastorialism recon­sidered," professor leo r. marx, m.i.t., memorial library auditorium. sponsored by evolutionary images of man series. 

•9-11 
p.m. -farley night at the nazz. 



TKDCiub, resumes practices 
Molarity Michael Molinelli 
.I'M /11?5/NGJ CJoHN L-ENNoN. eur.I 



Peanuts Charles Schulz 


I 6UES5 TIIAT'S WHl{

THE JUDGE CALLED ME A 
~OU 60 TO LAUJ SCHOOL
t.JI6MEN06, ABOWVER 
AND A SNAFFLER! 



ACROSS 31 First-rate 45 Jockey 24 Superior 1 Choice 32-and Eddie 25 Figureof
The Daily Crossword 5 Flat-bot· penates 48 Deform speech tomedboat 33 Anais-52 Shirk 26 Copy 10 Screen 34 Fleshy responsi· 27 Danish 

14 Tract  fruit  bilities  islands  
15 "-aGre­ 35 Tend  54 Ballet  28 Bungling  
cian Um"  36 Hat fabric  move  29 CeciiDe­ 
16 Woodwind  37 Before gram  55 Flynnof  30 Stage  
17 Job done  or center  films  direction  
perfunc·  38 Light boat  56 Room in  32 Thrust  
torily  39 Syrup tree  Mazatlan  forward  
20 Trained in  40 Activate  57 Retained  35 Became  
a hospital  a dead  58 Italian  smaller  
21 Salem's  battery  poet  36 Most  
state  42 Amy, for  59 Instrument:  remote  
22 Did garden  one  suff.  38 Arab  
work  43 Emerald  capital  
23 Tribe  Isle  DOWN  39 Slough  
24 Complete  44 Market,  1 Indonesian  41 Went in a  
27 Kind of job  old style  island  certain  
2 "-go  direction  
Yesterday's Puzzle Solved:  bragh"  42 Rhine  


3 Cult residence 4 Kind of pay 44 City in 5 Hat N. Oak. 6 Tacked on 45 Coleridge's 7 Peruse river 8 Political 46 Annoy 
party 47 Line a roof 
9 Student 48 Dawn 10 Trice 49 Partly 11 "Carry-open 
stick" 50 Shirt or 12 Tolerable pony 13 Sharp 51 Israeli 18 Began statesman 19 Exams 53 FOR 23 Denounce agency 


The Notre Dame Tae Kwon Do Club resumes practice sessions on Tuesday, Jan. 27, at 6 p.m. in Gym 4 of the A.C.C. New members, both novices and experts, are welcome. Call Ray at 3185 for additional in­formation. 

CILA plans meetin.g 
CILA (Community for the Interna· tiona! Lay Apostolate) will hold a General Meeting on Sunday, at 6:45 p.m., in the library Lounge. Old and new members are encouraged to at· 'end. Final plans for the Workshop on)an. 30-31 and the retreat on Feb. 21-22 with Henri Nouwen will be discussed. 
-·-­"The next day,John was at the river again with two ofhis disciples. As he .• r ·.~ watched jesus walk by, he said, 'Look, There is the Lamb ofGod!' The twoi -:-·=-~ disciples heard what he said, and followed Jesus. Whenjesus turned around and noticed them following him, he asked them, 'What are you lookingfor?'·~~·~·~~ ~~ ·.... They said to him, 'Rabbi, where do you stay?' ·. .:. :, .. "COME AND SEE," he answered. So they went to see where he was lodged, and stayed with him that day." GENTLEMEN: THE FRANCISCAN FRIARS INVITE YOU TO "COME AND SEE", VOCATION RETREAT JAN30-FEB1 FRANCISCAN RETREAT CENTER Mount Saint Francis, Indiana For your reservation orfor further information contact Friar Richard or Friar WUllam: Sl. Anthony Novitiate 1316 W.DraAon Trail Traosportation will be provided Mishawaka, IN 46544 for ND students (219)255-2442  SCUBA LESSONS Spring Semester Come to Room 2D LaFortune Center 7:00 PM -Jan. 22 Bring $30 Deposit Find out about our Bahamas Trip for Spring Break! Call272-8607 or 272-9780 Aquapro Scuba Center  

The Observer Thursday, January 22, 1981 -p;1ge 9 

This slam dunk byfreshman Tom Sluby put the Irish ahead of rJ/siting ~·an Francisl·o, 61-55, with 5:48 to play. Sluby later bit two clutchfree throws with 1:52 remaining to give Notre Dame a seemingly comfortable 72-66 lead. Sluby played 22 minutes last night, scored four points, blockeda shot, dished outan assist and pulled down a pairofrebounds. 

Squander lead 
Belles drop to 64 
By DAVE WILSON However, the Puma's came out with I 7 points, backed by Maureen Sports Writer roaring in the second half, and, wit­King with 11 points, Mary Pat Slt­hin nine minutes, a 10-polnt lead lington with 10, and Tracee 
As if revening to ~ld ways, Saint belonged to them. Kelly Good and Hargreaves with eight. Gretchen Mary's committed a number ofcost· Rhonda Hellenburg led the Pumas Meyer and Mary Bayless both threw ly turnovers in the second halfoflast with 21 and 20 points respectively. In six, while Kim Works and Cheryl night's basketball game with Saint For the Belles, Ann Armstrong Sweeney came off the bench to Joseph's College, and the Belles produced another Impressive effort score two apiece. proceeded to drop their fourth game ofthe year, 72-62. In a contest similar to Monday night's loss to Taylor, the Belles played an out­standing first half and then seemed to slip away under the strong 
Ailing Irish host Valpo
defenses ofthe Pumas. 
"I think we played a super first half," said Coach Jerry Dallessio. "I By KELLY SULLIVAN point per game average. Tht: suppose if you had to pinpoint the Women's Sports Editor Youngstown, Ohio, product has hit key to the loss, it would be their 
double figures in her last seven defense. They had a 1·3·1 trap that 
An ailing Notre Dame basketball games, and in nine of the last I 0, t•n just killed our offense." team may get a shot In the arm route to becoming Notre Daml"s all­"Saint Joe's didn't seem to miss a 
tonight when the Irish women en­time career scoring leader. Sht: led basket the entire second half," he tenain Valparaiso in the ACC at 7:30 all scorers on Sunday with a .l9 point continued. "We tried all our p.m. Although four staners return e.lton, and her 18 rebounds were a 
defensive patterns on them, and not­
from last year's Crusader club, the personal career best. hing worked. I guess our frustration Freshman Jenny Klauke, c.nt: of
visitors have never beaten Notre led to the large number of tur­Dame In six previous outings, falling two Irish players on scholarship, novers." victim in a 65-55 contest last season. continued to show promise with a 
Dallessio does appear optimistic But the Irish have had problems of 30-point output in the two weekend despite the loss. He pointed out St. their own recently. Coach Mary games. Joe's impressive 10-2 record, as well DiStanislao's charges were pounded "Jenny's play certainly wa:'i as the Puma's success against Saint by Division I schools Miami (Ohio) encouraging," notes her coach. "Her Mary's in the past. The loss dropped and Illinois-Chicago Circle over the scoring, and the fact that now that the Belles to 6-4. weekend. Still, the first-year mentor she's a little more experienced ­
"We take our games one at a has an optimistic outlook. playing with more poise -is hel­time," he declared. "The losses to "Where there's life, there's hope," ping to solve some ofour problems Taylor and Saint Joe's have to be put she says. "We're having execution at forward." 
behind us, because we have a tough problems that we have to iron out, After the 93·'53 thrashing by Butler team on our schedule this but as long as we can see areas to Miami, DiStanislao staned an entire· Saturday, and the rematch with improve upon, it's just a matter of ly different line-up in Sunday's con­Notre Dame next Wednesday." going back to square one." test with Chicago Circle, but doesn't 
The Belles were Impressive, both Sophomore Shari Matvey con­feel that will be necessary tonight. In scoring and offense. They held a tinues to pace the Irish in the 10-point lead at the half, 33·23. scoring department with a I'i. I See VALPO, paJie 11 

NOTRE DAME STUDENT UNION 


SPRING BREAK IN DAYTONA BEACH MARCH 13 -22. 1981 4 PER ROOM
5207 
C2 Double Bedsl 

6 PER ROOM
5195 
C3 Double Bedsl TRIP INCLUDES 

• Round trip motor coach transportation on first class charter coaches leaving the campus Friday 

evening March 13 and traveling straigh~ through with plenty of partying to Daytona Beach, arriving the following day. The return trip departs the follow­ing Sat. in the afternoon, and arrives back on campus the next day. 
• 
A full seven nights accommodations at the Plaza Hotel of Daytona Beach, Florida. 

• 
A great time in Daytona with special parties and activities. 

• 
Optional trip to Disney World available. 

• 
All taxes and gratuities. 



SIGN UP NOW AT THE TICKET OFFICE IN THE LA FORTUNE BUILDING 
8:00 a.m. -5:00 p.m. MON.-FRI. OR CALL 283-3031 (after five 283-6283J 
The Observer 

.....-­
--------------------------------, 
Thursday, january 22, 1981 -page 10 


ATTENTIONJUNIOR CLASS Seating for President's Dinner Junior Parent's Weekend LaFortune Main Lounge Thurs., jan. 22, 7-10 p.m. 

Fri., jan. 23,6-9 p.m. For Seating Arrangements the Following In­formation Is Necessary: 
1 )Each person may bring 3 ID's total (including his own) 
2) Parents' full names and home addresses wlll be required for each student 10. 
3) Number ofpeople attending per family. 
· For those wishing to sit together involving more than one table, there must be one representative per table to make seating arrangements. 
We wlll not sign up anyone who does not have the above in­formation or who has not returned reservations for the Presi­dent's Dinner. 
Maximum Seating Per lable: 9 

said, "Paul Westhead is my coach next season. jacl~; McKinney? Who's he?" 
And so, jack McKinney, who had built the framework for a Laker championship, who had nearly lost his life, had now lost his job, thanks to the spur-of-the-moment decision of an insensitive idiot ofan owner. He was, in layman's terms, pimped royally. 
"Jerry Buss never told me anything about my firing," said an embittered McKinney. "Actually, I found out when I called home to see how things were. My son told me he had heard it on the radio." But jack is back in the NBA now as head coach ofthe Indiana Pacers, an old ABA transfer that, before this season, had never even approached the .500 level, let alone the NBA playoffs. Now, McKinney has performed his magic once again, transforming a perennial doormat of a team into a legitimate playoff contender in onlyhalfa season. 
"It really hasn't been anything outstanding that I've done," said McKinney in his suite at the Chicago Downtown Marriott Hotel. "It's been the players. They're beginning to believe in themselves. My favorite expression has always been, 'Winning builds con­fidence, and confidence builds winning.' It took about 
I 0 or 15 games this year, but I think the players finally 
have that confidence in their own abilities." 
On this night, the Bulls, thanks to a 76-point second 
half outburst, defeated the Pacers, 123-105. But In­
diana'srecord stood at 29-20, nine gamesover .500, and 
they were in second place in the Midwest Division, 
fourth overall in the Eastern Conference, and in excel­
lent position to capture a playoff position come April. 
And they owe their success to one man, a man who 
came perilously close to death last year, a man who was 
unfairly removed from his job last season, a man who 
has overcome much adversity to single-handedly 
change the fortunes of a dying team. 
A man namedJack McKinney. 

L...._________________~---------------------------------------­
eyewitnesses tell it, as McKinney was riding down a steep hill, the bicycle somehow malfunctioned. McKin­ney was hurled over the handlebars, and landed head­first on the pavement, knocking him unconscious. When the paramedics arrived, two ofthem determined that he was already dead. One paramedic, though, felt that McKinneycould be revived because he looked, and indeed was, in peak physical condition. 
Jack McKinney spent ten days in a coma in the in­tensive care unit ofa Los Angeles hospital. During that period, he was listed in very critical condition and many of his vital signs were deteriorating. But, miraculously, he regained consciousness and -eventually ­recovered to resume his healthy, active life. While he was recuperating, it was agreed upon to let Westhead take control ofthe Lakers for the remainder ofthe 79-80 campaign, and let McKinney regain his old job for the '80-'81 season. 
When Paul Westhead took over the head coaching reigns, the Lakers' record was I 0-4, good enough for first place in the NBA Pacific Division. They were playing their best basketball since the early '70s, when guys named Chamberlain, West, Baylor and Goodrich were forming a Laker dynasty. It was McKinney, though, who had laid the foundation for the '79-'80 Lakers, in­corporatingandstressinga team concept on a team bur­dened with too much talent -players like Kareem Abdul Jabbar, Magic Johnson, Jamaal Wilkes, and Norm Nixon. It was a difficult task, one that Gene Shue (to cite one example) was unable to accomplish with Philadel­phia in the mid-70's when he had Julius Erving, George McGinnis, Darryl Dawkins, and lloyd Free on the court at the same time. But McKinney, it seemed, had been successful. 
Westhead's job was simple, for he already knew 
McKinney's system by heart. Under W esthead, the 
Lakers won the NBA Championship last season, defeat-



Sports Staff 
MANDATORY MEETING tonight 6:30 p.m. 
Some say FIGHTING IRISH is brewed . under the Golden Dome­Don't believe it. Its brewed at the end of the rainbow by Leprechauns. Now Available-at the end of your favorite rainbow & other drinking em oriums. 
Ocean Front Hotel 
SPRING 


Rooms in Lauderdale 
BREAK 

This Spring Break? 
'81! 

Student Suntrips offers: 


eAs low as $139/person /wk 
• All motels conveniently 
located on the strip e Limited space available 
For Reservatio-n Info. call toll-free 1-800-848-9540 In Ohio 1-800-282-3432 
ARRANGEMENTS BY STUDENT SUNTRIPS. INC 
• 

... Cheer 
Continuedfrom page 12 

Broughtdn described, but said it was a common problem at universities around the nation. He also added that it was against his advisement that the squad drove to both Atlanta and New York, explaining that he had suggested that half the squad fly to each site. 
"Most people don't realize how demanding and time-consuming cheerleading is," said McDonnell. "There's a lot of sacrifice and com­mittment involved. 
"The issue is not settled," McDon­nell said. "But that makes it sound like those were the reasons for people leaving the squad. That's what makes it incorrect. 
"I feel very badly for Joe O'Brien (the business manager for the Ath· 
letic Department)," said McDonnell, who went on to explain how several of the occurrences Broughton described couldn't have been avoided. "The Athletic Department has been very good to tis. I think some of the kids might regret what was said.'' 
I think so, too, especially the ones who left the squad for valid reasons. But I wonder if Paul Broughton does. 
Buy Observer Classifieds 

~~()f4tS~~~t:~i=~~~~S~~~~~==================Th==u=rs=da=y=,J=an=u=ary==22=,=19=8=1==p=a=ge~ll
by The Ohsert•er .wd Tht• A.r.rooated Prt•l.f 
Today is the deadlinefor lnterhaJI sign-ups In men's and women's volleyball, doubles racquetball and doubles handball. All participants must have proofofInsurance on file In the lnterhall office. Any questions, please call the lnterhall office at 6100 or stop by C-2 of the ACC. 
Oakland cornerback Lester Hayes says he 
just might catch more passes than Harold Charmlchael in Sunday's Super Bowl game. "1fhe wants to catch any passes, he better not go on my side of the field, 'cause If he's on my side, he's gonna have a hard time," Hayes said yesterday. "It's a fact; he'd better· stay on the other side of the field, or I just might catch more passes than he will." Talk, that's just talk, replies Philadelphia's towering wide receiver. "IfHayes said that, it must be right," Charmlchael responded later with a grin. 
The Women's Track Club practices every day in the ACC concourse at 4:30 p.m. Anyone interested in participating is encouraged to attend. Be prepared to run outside. For more informa­tion, contact Cindy McNally at 8152 or Rosanne Bellomo at 6896. 
The Rugby Clubwill hold a meeting tonight at 7 p.m. in the LaFortune BaJirooom. New members are welcome. 
Gerry Faust would like any freshmen men ,, 
terested In joining the student managers organization to aucud .1.1 
Important meeting tomorrow afternoon in the ACC auditorium. F:lll'l 
wlll address his urgent need for freshmen managers for upc·llillli.;, 
spring football practice. The meeting is scheduled for 'i p.m. 
Classifieds 
• • .Dons 
COntinuedfrom page 12 
pumped in another 20-foot jumper to tie the Dons at 53. The two dubs 
stayed close until the closing minutes when Kelly Tripucka returned from a slump, chipped in the majority ofhis 20 points and put Notre Dame up, 68-60. 
"We did not execute with the ball in the second half like we're capable of," said Barry, who also added that Notre Dame's ability to shut off the 7-foot Bryant was a key factor. 
"We started fronting him 
(Bryant)," said Phelps, "and they for­
got to look for him in the second 
half." 
Varner, Tripucka, and San Fran­cisco's Bart Bowers and John Heg­wood all fouled out with just minutes remaining. The loss of two key players worried both benches, but especially that of Barry, who ad­mits his club is basically a "five-man team." The 6-3 Dailey put on a one-man show to close the gap. It was the Dons high point man who also put the 14-3 California club on top 75-74 with just 0:35 remaining. 
Following a Notre Dame timeout 
it was John Paxson who stole that 
winning show with his prayer jum­per. 
"We wanted to get the ball to 
Paxson," said Phelps, whose team 
now stands at 10-3 overall and 8-0 at 
home. "And John hit a good shot." 
"We wanted to force them to the 
perimeter," said Barry, "and we did. 
Paxson just zeroed it ln. He's a great 
competitor. He seems to be in con­
trol at all times out there." 
Control and confidence are some­thing Paxson expects. "You've got to have the confidence to play. If you don't have it, you shouldn't be out on the court," repeated the hero, over and over. 
IRISH ITEMS: Gilberto Salinas, who was injured in the first contest with the Dons, will undergo a scan tomorrow to detect a possible torn ligament...TracyJackson, injured in Monday's game with Fordham, joined fellow-senior Salinas on the bench in street clothes. Jackson, however, should play against Maryland on Saturday...The Irish shot a much-improved .640 from the field while the Dons ended at a .582 clip after a phenomenal .773 in the first half... Notre Dame was again touched from the charity stripe, acing 16 of22 attemps, six ofwhlch were added by Tripucka in the 
closing minutes... last night's game stays in the ND-USF mold, as both teams have yet to lose a game with the home court advantage...Bill Var ner dished out a game-high 10 as sists... Again, Digger Phelps defied his traditional liberal substitution policy, as he played both Paxson and Woolridge the full 40 minutes. Var ner played all the way until fouling out with 3:21 to play, and Tripucka 
played 33 minutes. 
.Valpo 
Continuedfrom page 9 
"We changed things around a little bit against Chicago Circle be­cause we wanted to use a quicker lineup at the start of the game," she explained. "Some changes may be imminent, but that won't he the solution -finding people who will execute the fundamentals will be the solution." 
Following their date with Val paraiso, the Irish will visit neighbor­ing Salnt Mary's next Wednesday. The Igame is a rematch ofa meeting earlier this season which Notre Dame won, "'1-52. 
All llas~dHH1 ..Hi'i r, tl:;t htj recerved by 4 45 p m. 1wo days ~wo• •o lhf' ISSuE:' 111 wtiiL:h rht! '1:1 •s run The Observer offrce will accepl classdreds MorH1.:t\ ttlrougn Fr1.Jav. 10.00 ,, rr ~a 4 45 p m All classlfreds must be pre·pi11(1 f•Hiler 111 PtH'SOn or 1hrougt1 1t1e mall 
god made notre dame 9 bob Cooney--Good Luck to you and your great basketball team! LG.
....____No_T_IC_Es__JI ILOST/FOUND I I WANTED ~ L....-1_TI_C_KE_T_S-----~ 
jeff, You didn't answer my last per­goose; are you going to l11ERE'S MORE TO THE STORY lost sliver St. Christopher medal needed; one guitar for renl need 2 tickets to Springsteen. Floor 
sonal...maybc arkles arc slow... springstecnO call me I I I ISI I hull THAN MEETS THE EYE Thurs. 1-1 ~-81 at Stepan call Frank this semester. CALl. EVENINGS or pads only. Call John Higgins at 
Hmmmm?!!! 

1740 AT 287-2057. MAKE SOME MONEY 8553 In the evening. Magcma trlcia Burke, are there stan In your IF YOU DON'T PLAY YOUR GUITAR 
eyes?free fleX Is nut sold here, but If you ANYMORE. need 4 tlx to Bruce Springsteen con­received Chrlstma.' muncy and/or lost; sliver pierced earring (white cert-will buy In pairs. Calljlm 4352. 
bill Lynch, I've """n watching you good Luck to all prcacnt and future want to upgrade your St(:'reo system, enameled Dower). Reward. If found, 
forr quite some time. Thought I'd lct Kulplcs. Excclaiorl From probablyI have, for a limited time only, the call 277-11819. help wanted -Earn up to S I ,000 need 2 GA TICKETS FOR NO-UCLA 
you know that .... I'm lntercstcd!!!!!­the only person on either campusNIIMARK EQ-2300, a prufcs.•lonal or more for a few evenings work. No BASKETBALl. GAME. PLEASE CAU 
Aphrodite · P.S. My ronmk thinks that has not received a personal from !lludlo I 0-hand per channel graphic selling. just hang posters on your SHIRLEY AT 8661 OR 1715 BEFORE 
your tall, blonde, ROTC frknd Is Goose. 
equalizer alan UNBEATABLE PRICE. lost: Men's gold clas.' ring. P.C. High campus advertising our half-price 5P.M. 
cut~. too. t'ur more Jnformation on thtK or any School. Orange stone. Phil 8338. tour. of Europe. For details, write: need four ga'S FOR SOUTH this Is for kcvln kelly of fis­
uthcr St.-rt"u Equipment, call Scott at TRAVEL STUDY INTERNATIONAL, dear Person In the Glee Club wilh CHER HAU AND OF RENOWNCAROUNA. CALL BOB 4641.
EMERSON EI.ECTRONICS until I 2030 East4800 South, Suite 101, Salt the maroon jacket, HOOlE, llopefol­DARBY FAME WHO MAKES THE 
a.m. al lii:S-681 l. lust: room and car keys, n.-ar ad Lake City, UT 84117. 
ly thc ncxt time I run into you, it BEST AND MOST SADLY MISSED

bldg. on an Fill ring. If found call need ucla ga'S--CAU MATT AT won't be In Kroger's. Lady Sunday 
PIZZA THINGS IN ALL THE GOWEN-DOMED WORLD FROM 
8700. 232-0921. 
learn 10 tly with regional need ajobO did you make It to the phenomenal THE I>ARBY PRINCESS WHO USED
solo In lcsslhan 30 DAYS campus press nc:eds a need 2 GA l1CKETS FOR jAN. 31 Campus VIew bash last Saturday? Did TO GET FREE FOOD BUT WAS
Regional Flying Club Is a nonprofit found; a wat~h In stanford secretary/layout artist to work 1-5 SC GAME, CALL 6814. 
you steal 2 dozen eggs, I pound of FORCED TO SliRRENI>ER S.80 LAST

organization dcdll·ated to the train· hall'S PARTY ROOM LAST FRIDAY Tues. & Thurs. this semester. Job In· hamburger and 3 pork chops? You're TIIESDAY NITE.HELLO. 
lnrc of students. w.-olfer you 1hc UAN. 16). CAI.I.PAliL8636. eludes taking orders and poster set four excellent padded seats for 
a real winner buddy...But we'll not finest equipment at the lowest rates up--no experience necessary. Need Springsteen. Call Rob 277-0865. 
let this "" a major d,eterrent...We looking for rlden to FLORIDA over

In this area. Re(iCional can lake you someone who'll "" able to stay on for won't veg nn the intensity!! Campus spring break. Comfortable ride In
from 11round Instruction up lhrough lost: Woman's Gold Watch on next year. Apply at Campus Press, senior student b-ball llckel book for VIew will strlk<" again in the very 
VAN!!! Call Kathie at 2B3-4395 ,after ncar future...Probably a 30 kegger to
solo In lcs.• than 30 days. Call us now Friday: 6728 Sue or Christy 6734. basement of LaFortune, 1-5. Any sale. UCLA llcket included. Padded 6 277-7407.
al 6113-9499 and start DylnKio<lay. questions? Call 7047 or Diane at scat. Call Marc at 1369. 
promte Ken Stack for UMOC. .. 

7922. 
eaglcs fans SS for important infowanted: 2-4 GA's to UCLA and/or St. 
artificial birth control: Is l)lere anot­rcgardlng the gala Super Bowl pep

professional typing. Term Francis basketball games. Top SUS. 
her way? Yes, Natural Family Plan·

FOR RENT rally and victory celebration call
papers, theses, etc. Tape lran•crip· need engineering economy Call 1804. 
ning Is safe, healthy, effective. 

Tweely -thc Phllly Phanatic-at 11·
tlon. l.a..t year's same low prlc.,;. All and automatic control EVERYONE Invited In learn more. 
4898
work guaranteed. aardvark houses for rent summer and/or next cngr. BOOKS CALL RICK 1932 need UCLA tickets: 2 student and I Mon. jan. 26, 7:30 p.m., IJhraryautomatic solullons. 289·6753. school year. Good condition, close GA. Will pay megabuck US. Please Auditorium. Engaged and married you'VE HEARD ABOUT IT, YOU'VEto campus, partially furnished. l'nr need 2 GA Tlx for UCLA--Will gladly call Cyndy 8014. 
couples call 288-2662 to reglste rnr READ ABOUT IT, BUT DO THEY

info call287-5361 after6 p.m. pay big bucks. Call TJ, 3207. 
call starting Tues. jan. 27th on 

pandora'S BOOKS can save you wiD pay good money for several GIVE MATCHES? 
campus. many dullan on books for your want to seU your UCLA Tix--call Dan 8233. da.•scs. Try u• flr>t. We can special house for r~nt, second semester typewriter() call chuck 8705 tum McNeill, Why did you try to oh goo Is coming to the kf<'
wanted; bruce springsteen raise the depth nf thc Mississippi ten
order hook.•. b01h texts and paper­and/or next year. Excellent condi­frl. & SAT. AT7,9 & II. hack•, and usually have the books tion, close In campus, partially fur­notre Dame's student radio stations, tickets will pay S S for good seats 
fcet? It can't"" good forth.-fish. within 3 days. Pandora's Is a full­nished. Fur Info call 287-5361 after6 WSND, has openings for sports call Ron 4614 
g.-orgc burns and john den­

It could only "" an au1t1some :ul·
service buok.tit<Jt(:' with new and p.m. production posillons. If you are in­VER ARE COMING TO THE used hooks, newspaper. and terested, call Brian Reimer al 6397 venture whcn Keenan and uMans 
KNIGHTS OFCOLUMBUS ON FRI. & magazines. PANI>ORA'S BOOKS, between ten and eleven In the mor­go to New Orleans and take over the SAT. AT 7,9 & II:00 APPEARING IN DeVon's. WOA 6, the TAKEE OUTEE 
937 South Bend Ave., 233-2342. for Rent: Cozy apt. for rent near ning, or leave a not In the station OH GOD ADMISSION IS SJ MEM· 
River & Park. Sl50/mo. Call 232-( lncau:d on the fourth Door of PERSONALS on whee!a...where's Hollywoo<l? try
BERS ARE FREE. 

lhe Hotsy Tntsy...guller ac·
4549. O'Shaughnessy). 
lion... Mull" losing lunch...kiU de5CII your old textbooks or trade oh god Is coming to the whltc man...Maggie caught a
them In for your spring l<"xtb<xJks. of on
boom boom'S BACK FROM knights columbus buzz?...greasc the door, here com~
Immediate cx~hange or credit for gr:uluatc student looking for two Notre Dame students are 
BREAK. SHE'S BElTER THAN friday and saturday at 7,9 & Christy...Buhha Impersonated Jim
future purchaseo. Good prices forr roommates to share dean five looking for one or two roomates to BEFORE. CALI. THIS GORGEOUS 11:00. ADM. IS SJ MEMBERS ARE Morrison to aT, but he didn't wet hismo!JI uocd honks. PANDORA'S bedroom house. Fully fonished live In five bedroom house. Call 234­
WOMAN OR KNOCK UPON HER ADM. FREE pants!?...Ryan, arc youjUST TOOOO
BOOKS, 937 South Bt·nd Ave., l33-Including wa.1her/drycr. S70 per 79118 and ask for Bob or Mike for DOOR. CLARE BOOM BOOM SURE?...Kntck, was Molly able to2342. month. 288-3109. details. 
DEVEREUX IS THE REAl. WOMAN 
catch her brcath?...Mickey, how 4089. 
---COPY EDITORS---Tim, Kelll and many limes Is It pposslble to go to Kathy C., you have SIS walling from the bathroom during a humi­
new York Times nnw avallabk In graduate student looking for 4 happy 21ST BIRTHI>AY TO THE 
lalast semester; pick up your checks ly?...Pngo much to My Sharona,
box outside store by 2 a.m. dailv roommates for ~-bedroom housc, WHOUl GANGl CONGRATULA· 
from Shirley. If an yon<: would ilk.-to Buck?...Patly's drooling again!...Tomfolly-furnished. with washer and
PANDORA'S BOOKS, 937 South dryer. SAFE NEIGHBORHOOD, S70 FOR SALE TIONS SHIRLEY, WINNIE, DAFF. change nights, call Mary Fran ( 7992 needs a translator... Danny, you and 
Bend Ave .. 233-2342. FIFI, CUDDLES, KID, BUD, FAG, a month. Call 288-31 09. 
or 7471 ). AlSO--Both new and old your wonderful parents deacrve a SCHNOOK.IE AND MR ED! 
copy editors need to pick up the big THANK YOU from all ofualll Was tl-58 Calc :Sale, Phll8338 handouts wwlth the new codes if It too much, OR WHAT??? 
saturday night to whom It may concern: Many baby you were born to run campus view apt. AVAIL GREAT­thanx to my special friend who sent 
they have not already done so. The cod~ are on the shelf In the for Sale: One SpriniiJI(een ticket. 
senior har springstcln night LY REDUCED RENT. USA AT 2968 me the roses. I also thank you for newsroom with old papers Good bleacher tiCal. II0. 50. Call
for Sale 1974 AMC Hornet. Good Condition. S200 critiqued.
many ""er specials OR MARIE AT 277-3579. being here...and caring. Julie V. 
1279. 
-~ --------­

Thursday, January 22, 1981 -page 12
~ports 
Sweet revenge 
Irish stun Dons 
By BErn HUFFMAN knows he made a mistake and he Sports Editor probably won't make it again." San Francisco was slapped with a 
"As you can tell, it was an easy technical foul, and the Irish were 
win," laughed Digger Phelps after awarded two free throws. Paxson, a 
last night's anything-but-easy 80-75 6-2 point guard from Kettering, 
Irish win over San Francisco in the Ohio, calmly stepped to the line and 
ACC. "But, man I'm tired." sank both tosses. Senior Stan Wilcox 
Notre Dame added another toyed with the Dons and pumped in 
miracle victory as sophomore sensa-his only two points of the game at 
tionjohn Paxson sank a 20-footer to the buzzer to account for the five­
put the home squad ahead 76-75 point win. 
with six seconds to go. The two teams, rematching after a 
"That was all they gave me," said 66-63 San Francisco win in overtime Paxson, who has a touch of the flu. just eight days ago, played even in "You have to put up a shot with at the first half, changing baskets along least six seconds to go for the of-with numerous turnovers. The Irish fensive rebounders to have a finally surged ahead on the shooting chance." ·of Paxson and Woolridge to build a 
And Orlando Woolridge, who Jed 24-18 lead at the first halfs mid­all rebounders with eight, was ready. point. "If he'd have missed it 1 would've Paced by the hot hands ofQuinten gone at it," said the 6-9 senior who Dailey and Wallace Bryant the Dons joined Paxson as high-point man for caught Notre Dame and surged the Irish with 22. ahead. Another long jumper from 
Following Paxson's prayer shot Paxson at the buzzerleft the Irish be­
the Dons raced the ball in-bounds hind 43-39. and Kenny McAlister did what he The Irish closed within two as the considered the wisest thing _ second half began on a layup by Bill called a timeout. What McAlister Varner, who started in place of forgot was the Dons had no time· injured Tracy jackson. But, again on outs remaining. They had called the shooting of Daily, who had a their last with I :52 to play. game-high 29 points, the Dons kept 
"Kenny McAlister simply made a the lead. mistake," said Coach Pete Barry, With 12:05 to play, Paxson who had warned all his players that the Dons had no time-outs left. "He See DONS, page 11 

Cheer, cheer. •• 
Sports Writer 

Things aren't supposed to happen this way. \Ve i:• up in our sterile, middle-class world, when: our hu­t1t the all-AmeriCa stereotypes. The boy-ncxt-<.1""' ,; he's big and strong, will grow up to be a footballpl;!n · And his sister, with pony tails and an ear-to-car grin, 1, iiI be a cheerleader. 
Today, things don't always work out that '' ;t! Sometimes, the girl-next-door is a basketball player in· stead of a cheerleader, and her brother is the cheer­leader. All of this is perfectly fine, so long as om • next-door neighbors still believe in Mom, the flag and Chevrolet. 
But at Notre Dame, of all places, there is troublc. It seems that some of the cheerleaders are not happ,· lbose nasty ogres in the Athletic Department did all sorts of mean things to Notre Dame's cheerleader-;, ·'·'' five ofthem decided to quit. 
Last year, the Faculty Board in Control of Athletic~ decided to increase the requirement for earning a monogram from four semesters on the squad to six. II• It it wasn't until this fall that some of the cheerlc.:atiL'f' realized how unfair they thought this was. 
And all of those crummy places Notre Dame's foot­ball team played this fall, cities like New York and At­
--lanta? Well, I don't know who it was, but somcbml} forced all 12 cheerleaders to drive to both of tho~l' cities. Probably because some jerk in the Athlctil Departme11t doesn't like cheerleaders and went out of his way to get them bumped from the football team's charter flights. When I read the reasons for quitting given by the for­mer cheerleaders, though, I wasn't convinced. They just didn't seem like things the kids-next-door would even dream o~ let alone say out loud. This can't be right, I thought. So I called Dr. james McDonnell, who is the Director ofStudent Activities at Notre Dame. Say it ain't so, james, I pleaded. Much to my relief, he did just that. But what he did tell me, at least about one of the five. made me even more disgusted. As McDonnell explained it, two members of the squad, Eileen Quinn and Denise Offer, advised him during the fall semester that they felt they no longer could devote proper time to both cheering and 
academics. McDonnell emphasized that both girls gave him personal and very valid reasons for leaving the squad. 
The other three former members, including co­captain Paul Broughton, experienced varying degrees of academic difficulties. Now, Notre Dame is very serious about requiring is students to fulftll their academic obligations first, and that is good. This is why 
Notre Dame athletes are ineligible to compete if they don't meet University standards even if they surpass NCAA minimums. 
But Paul Broughton didn't talk that way in Tuesday's Observer. He listed any number of sins committed by the Athletic Department against the cheerleaders as his reasons for leaving. What he didn't tell us was that he didn't have a choice. 
"The stuffin the paper was pure, unadulterated crap," said McDonnell Wednesday afternoon. "He made it sound like he could have stayed, but he couldn't have. There iS a problem, but that is not the reason for him not being on the squad." 
McDonnell expressed sympathy for the conditions 
See CHEER, page 10 
leers tohostDenver; aimforplayoffs 
By BRIAN BEGLANE straight series while Olson sustained Sports Writer an injury to the back ofhis knee last Friday against North Dakota and is 
The Notre Dame hockey team, in out indefinitely. ninth place in the Western Col­legiate Hockey Association with a 5-Senior left wing Kevin 10-1 record (9-13-2 overall), Humphreys skates into the weekend continues its fight for a playoff spot having scored seven goals in his last this weekend when Denver Univer­six games. Jeff Logan, who scored sity pays a visit to the ACC. once and had two assists last 
weekend, leads the Irish in scoringThe Pioneers, in third place in the with 12 goals and 13 assists for 2 5 WCHA with a 9-6-1 mark and at one points. Humphreys and Dave Poulinpoint this season the No. 1 team in follow with 24 points each.
the country, have surprised many folks this year. Coach Marshall 
Following this series, Notre Dame Johnston had faced some big losses 
embarks upon a three-week road when Glenn Anderson turned pro in 
schedule with a series at Minnesota­August and goalie Stuart Birenbaum 
Duluth. was forced to take this season offdue to illness. But a host of younger IRISH ICINGS -WSND-AM will players have come through. broadcast both games live this weekend beginning at 7:30... Min­Remaining goalie Scott Robinson nesota's Bryan Erickson was named is tops in the WCHA with a 3.29 WCHA player of the week after goals against average and while of­scoring four goals and assisting on fensive production has not been three others last week in a sweep of high, it's been consistent enough to Wisconsin... Dave Laurion ranks get the Pioneers where they are fourth among league netminders now. with a 4.04 goals against average. 
Ed Beers is the leading goal scorer -he with just II -while Ken Ber­ry is the top overall scorer with 32 points. 
•Belles lose 

"We really have our work cut out page9for us," said Irish Coach Lefty Smith. "Denver is one of the best teams in the nation and facing a tough team 
•JackMcKinney

for the second week in a row does not help any. We can't afford to drop page 12 any further." 
The Irish head into the series mis­
•Irish women's

sing two forwards, junior Dan Col­lard and sophomore Dick Olson. 
pregame

Collard suffered a broken knuckle two weeks ago at Michigan Tech and page9 
will probably miss his second 










