-----------~: 
Irish Extra page 11
' ' ' 

VOL. XVI, NO. 46 an mdependent student newspaper servmg notre dame and samt mary's FRIDAY, OCTOBER .30, 1981 
In Frese suit 
Women withdraw tenure appeal 
By CINDY COLDIRON 
Neu•sStafi 
Sr. Madonna Kolhcnschlag and Ann l.aCombt·, two of the women n:prcscnted hy Dolores l'rcsc, a for­mer assistant professor of English at Notn· Dame, withdrt"l\' their appeal of tht· settlement of last year's scx­discrimation suit involving present and former women professors at ND. 
Ms. Frese stated that the settle· mt·nt was "very fair and adequate and sinn· .Judge Allen Sharp ex· ndscd individual fairness, the chance for an appeal was very limited." 

The court records for the case state that in 1977 Delores Frese was denied tenure at Notre Dame despitt: an exemplary record which justified the promotion. They con­tinue, "She believed then and she believes now that she was denied promotion because of her sex and that sex discrimination is prat·ticed across the board at Notre Dame." 
Ms. Frese also felt that the !3000 bond posted for the two women in the class represented by her, Sr. Madonna Kobcnschlag and Ann 
Dorm robbery baffles security, local police 
By MARK ROLFES 
StuffReporter 

Two rooms in Holy Cross Hall at Saint Mary's College were 
burglarized over October break. The investigation by St. Joseph 
County Police has been fruitless so far, and there are no suspects. 
The burglary was discovered by Saint Mary's housekeepers on 
Mon., Oct. 19, according to the Saint Mary's Public Relations Office. 
Victimized students were notified over break by the Collegt:. from 
one room a portable stereo tape player was reported missing; from 
the o~h~r a stereo system, three rings and a ceramic piggy bank 
contammg close to forty dollars in change, according to one of the 
girls. 

. The girls ,said that the entire room had been gone through by the 
mtruders. Closets and drawers had definitely been searched, they 
claimed. One said, "It was really strange, though. There were other 
valuable things that they just left behind." 
According to Holy Cross Rectoress Susan Tamborini, no students 
were in the hall over break and access was limited strictly to main­
tenence people. 

Another strange occurrence in the case was the recovery of the 
piggy bank in the basement ofthc Saint Mary's library. Neither Saint 
Mary's nor County Police Sgt. Mary Margaret O'Brien, the officer 
assigned to the case, could offer an explanation. 
The investigation has been frustrating so far, according to O'Brien. 
"The locks to the doors of the rooms appear to have been pried 
open, but no evidence of forced entry to the building has been 
found." When asked about the rumor that the burglars may have 
gained access via the steam tunnels, she answered that she had "not 
heard _a_nything about it from Saint Mary's Security." Fingerprints 
were ltltcd at the scene, but unfortunately were too smeared to be 
usdul. There are no suspects as of now. 
Saint Mary's Director of Personnel Robert Foldessi, supervisor of 
the Security Department, regretted the incident. He added, "This has 
been the first incident this year of any kind. Fortunately, it hasn't 
been a major problem in recent years." 
'City ofFaith' 

LaCombe, was very fair. The record of the case states that the bond was posted because "neither' objector even bothered to appear at the hearing and the class counsel es­timates that the printing of hriefs and other costs"WiTT exceed s.;ooo 
in this case." 
As a result of the settlement, Ms. Frese felt that there now existed strong provisions for the women who wanted to return to Notre Dame. She emphasized that it was "not true that there was ever a strong case for pay discrimination at the University and that I negotiated it away to get my job back." If the women had won the class action suit, Ms. Frest• said that each of the 76 class members who did not file objections to the proposed settle­ment would have had to go before the judge individually to present their cases. 
Planning to return to Notre Dame next semester as an associate profes· sor with tenure, Ms. Frese said that she does not "feel divided or an­tagonistic toward Sr. Kolbenschlag or Ms. LaCombe." She felt that they had the right to appeal the settle· mcnt and were not holding up the other women in the appeal; the Uni­versity was holding up the appeal. 
Expressing hope that Sr. Kol­bens(:hlag would return to Notre Dame, Ms. Frese stated she would support her 100 percent. She also felt that Ms. LaCombe, while she was at Notre Dame, was one of the few women who was given tenure with· out a hassle and that perhaps she had other reasons for appealing the case. 
'Steep plunge ' 


Index forecasts further recession 
WASHINGTON (AP) An "especially steep plungt:'' in a key government index foretells a nation­al economy already in a mild reces­sion sinking even deeper in the next few months, a top Commerce . Department official said yesterday. 
"The only real question is how far it is going to drop," said Assistant Secretary Robert Dederick. 
But Dederick and other analysts 
Hospital offers medical, spiritual aid 
By DAYTON BLAIR 
Assodtlletll'ress ll'ritt•r 
l'l liSA, I )kla (AI') -\X'ht·u 1 lral Rc !herr~· I:it, .•f Faith llo~pital opt·ns heH· ~Iunday. it will ha\"C 29 1 ht·ds. -~ ~ lhKtor~. more than l 00 nursn­and I 0 ~alaril'd "prayer partnn~" as part of \\.hat tlw ho!»pital ~·alb its "ht·aling team." 
"Tilt' Oral Roberts :\I inbtrics have 
always cmpha.~izt·d that medkal 
\denn: !»hould work hand in-hand 
with prayl'f. With till' City of Faith 
wt· art· oflt-ring mt·dil'al scienct· the 
beM fadlitie~ to hlossom and grow." 
~aid Rohnt~. a nationally-known 
t·vangclbt and the· driving forn· be­
hind the ho!tpital. 
The facility, which to date has l'tlM S 1.!0 million. will open dd1t-frce. It was built ("ntirely through contribu· tions of"partners" -those who fol­low Roberts' preaching. 

At one point, \\ hl'n financing was a problem. Roberts wrote his partners that a 900-foot Jesus had ap­pt·ared to him. liftct!_ tht· City of Faith 

in his hand and told him the medical complex would he built. 
When tht· hospital is completed -probably in 198 l, at a totall:ost of S2<;() million -it will have 4,000 full·titnc cmployel:s. including 318 physicians and 800 nurses. 
The prayer partners arc meant to supply the spiritual side of healing, counsding and praying with patknts up to thl· time they go into tht· pre-operating room. The medi cal side will be supplied through what i!t being billed as tht· most ad­
V<IIKed dinic and research center in 
the United States. 
Part of tht· admission ti.Jrm 
patients will receive b a -section on 
t·hurch preference, activities and 
spn:ial interests. "This information 
will bc computerized and made 
available to the prayer partners," 
said William Luttrell. l'hief ad­
ministrative ofikcr ofthe hospital. 
All prap.:r partners will be trained 
to pray with people in medical situa-
See 1-'0CUS, page 6 






Tom DeLuca last night amazed many students with bts ESP ex· perlments and hypnotic demonstrations. Here, two of those who volunteered for the demonstrations meet under the direction of DeLuca. The two later swore that they bad not been hypnotized. (photo by Tonia Hap) 
inside and outside the government say they do not foresee a downturn as sharp as last year's recession. 
The Commerce Department said yesterday that the government's In­dex of Leading Indicators fell 2. 7 percent in September, the biggest drop since April 1980. Since April 
1981, the index has fallen 5.5 per· cent. 
Dederick said the new decline is "an especially steep plunge" in the index, which is designed to forecast future trends of the economy. 
"The report strongly suggests that industrial production will he sliding into the autumn and that the real gross national product will bt• down for the third successive quarter. Any upturn is unlikely before early 1982. 
"The iffy question." he said, "is whether it is going to turn around in the tlrst yuartcr or thc st-cond" of ncxt year 
The Labor Department rcp<lrtcd 
Thursday that ovcrall bu~im·s!t 
productivity fdl at an annual ratc of 
1.9 percent in the third yuarter, tht· biggest decline sinc.:e the first quar­ter of 1978. 
And, Federal Reserve Board Chair· man Paul Volcker told senators on Capitol' Hill that it is "quilt' possiblc" the economy wa.~ in a rcc.:ession. Hut he declined to make any tlat dn:lara­tion, saying a recession is "something you pronounce after tht· event when you can sec what is happening." 
A poor fourth quarter this year 
wold enhance the administration's 
ability to achieve a projected 
~rowth of 5.2 percent in 1982 as 
measi.H'ed from fourth quarter to 
fourth quarter. 
But Dedrick agreed with his boss, 
Commerce Secretary Malcolm 
Baldrige, that the Reagan Ad· 
ministration's forecasts of a 3. 4 per­
cent average growth throughout 
1982 may be too optimistic. 
"The year-over-year growth could 
well turn out to be less than what 
was earlier projected," he said. 
Prcsideot Reagan and his top 
economic adviser~ have aln:ady 
dedarcd that the recession has 
arrivnl. But Dederick's comments 
were in line with Vokkcr's when the 
Commt·rce oftkial ~aid that "wht·n 
we say we: are in a n·eTssion, we arc 
in clkn making a fiJrecast" that cur­
rent downward trend~ will continuc 
for the next ft:w month~. 
Tht· dt."clinc in the lcading in­
dicator~ index. the higgest drop 
sinee a four-percent fall 17 months 
e·arlkr. "obviously strengthens our 
view" that the trt·nd is still 
d<~wnward. he told reporters. 
Tht· dc:cline in the avl·rage work ·wet·k and the· increase in tht• layoff 
rate:. two of tltc eight cn>nomic in­
dicators involved. wtTl' major fat·­
tor~ in the dedine, hal:king up tht· 
view of most analysts that the na­
tion's unt·mployment rate will rbe 
from September's 7.'i percent in 
coming months. 




r--______--· 
News Brie s 
Ill I ht' I J/)St'l'l't'l' and The A.~.wciated Press 
Halloween goblins didn't stealtiO ofjoan 
Brougham's pumpkins. Some neighborhood vandals were respon­sible for the vanishing act, and bragged about their work. Mrs. Broug­ham, ofMcCutchanville, Ind., likes pumpkins. For the last five years, she has decorated her driveway with an array of the Halloween decoration. This year, she made two shopping trips, paid J50, and spent an afternoon arranging 120 pumpkins. All but 10 disappeared over the weekend ofOct. I 7, with a smashed ceramic skeleton head left in the driveway. "I figured if you offer 550 to young kids, some­body's bound to squeal," she said. After Mrs. Brougham offered the .550 reward, she received four telephone calls identifying two neigh­borhood boys as the culprits. -AP 
Increasing misgivings about the nation's 
economic future may be hurting President Reagan's image, accord­
ing to the latest Associated Press-NBC News poll. The poll says that 
while Reagan maintains the approval rating for his overall perfor­
mance in office, Americans believe he is not doing as good a job in 
handling the economy. The poll, a scientific random sampling of 
1,598 adults taken by telephone last Sunday and Monday, also said 
there is growing pessimism about the economy over the next year. 
Fifty-one percent of the respondents said Reagan is doing a good or 
excellent job as president, but OQly 39 percent -the lowest 
economic approval rating during his presidency and down from 45 
percent a month ago -said he is doing a good or excellent job in 
handling the economy. The poll also said there has been a sharp drop 
in optimism about the economy. Twenty-three percent said the 
economy will get better during the next year, while 41 percent said 
it will get worse, 33 percent said it will stay the same and 3 percent 
were not sure. -AP 

President Reagan andhis wife Nancy, both suffer­ing colds, checked into a VIP suite at a military hospital yesterday for an overnight stay and their first routine, full-scale medical examina­tions since moving into the White House. The president, of course, was under intensive care for several days last spring when he was wounded by gunfire March 30. But he had not undergone a full preventive checkup since 1979. A team of 14 physicians, represent­ing various specialties, was assembled at the National Naval Medical Center in nearby Bethesda, Md., to conduct and analyze a wide bat­tery of tests on the Reagans, said spokesman Larry Speakes. Before leaving the White House, Reagan said he felt "just fine" despite the head cold that has made his voice hoarse the last few days. As he walked to the Marine helicopter that carried him to the hospital, the president declared, "I haven't got any problems. They're going to tell 
you how healthy I am." -AP 

Swedish salvage vessels prepared yester­
day to refloat a grounded Soviet submarine after sub-hunting helicopters chased away an unidentified submarine and a Soviet tug cruising in the restricted military zone, authorities said They said Moscow had agreed to let Swedish ships salvage the diesel-powered Whiskey-class submarine that ran aground in Swedish waters Tues­day night off the southeast coast near the Karlskrona naval base. Sweden has protested the Soviet submarine's incursion. Swedish Prime Minister Thorbjorn Falldin made clear that the sub would be returned to the Soviet Union, but "how and whe'n will depend on the outcome of an investigation we have ordered conducted by the commander in chief." He said that any effort by the submarine to escape would be forcibly stopped. -AP 
A military court in the Israeli-occupied Gaza Strip fined the Arab chairman of the Bank of Palestine the equivalent of 52,200 for illegally publishing a pamphlet on the bank's activities, a military official said Thursday. Haj Hashim Atta el-Shawa also was 
given a six-month suspended sentence for producing the booklet, which commemorated the bank's 20th anniversary. The Bank of Palestine was closed after Israel captured the Gaza from Egypt in the 1967 Mideast war. It was allowed to reopen earlier this year despite Israeli authorities' efforts to change the bank's name. EI-Shawa pleaded guilty to publishing the pamphlet without prior approval from government authorities. The pamphlet included political state­.ments and was illustrated in the red and green colors of the flag of 
.: the Palestine Liberation Organization, officials said. -AP 
As newlyweds will, they kissed as they waited at a stoplight -until they heard the siren and saw the lights. And that's when William Brook, a motorcycle policeman, started writing tick­ets for Dr. Ron Cherry and his wife, Dr. Melissa Cherry, both resi­dents at Vanderbilt Hospital in Nashville, Tenn. "It's ridiculous to get a ticket for kissing your own wife," Cherry said yesterday. The problem, Brook said, was that the light turned green and the doctors kept on kissing. And kissing at an intersection can be a misdemeanor, with a $15 fine. "I just don't see how, with his head turned the way it was, he could have seen out ofbut one eye when he went around the corner," the patrolman said. Cherry said he will explain in court on 
Dec. I 0 that he stopped kissing his bride when he turned the corner to go to a movie. -AP 
Partly sunny and warmtoday. High in the mid to upper 60s. Mostly cloudy and mild tonight, with a chance of rain. Low in the upper 40s to low 50s. Cloudy and continued warm tomorrow, with a good chance ofrain. High in the mid to upper 60s. C::ha(lce ofrain is 30 percent tonight. -AP 
---------..._..._.-..-----­
Friday, October 30, 1981 -page 2 

What Happened at Cancun? 
In the Mexican resort of Cancun, the leaders of 22 
nations and the United Nations Secretary-General met 
to discuss the unequal distribution of wealth between 
the industrialized Northern Hemisphere and the im­
poverished Southern Hemisphere. 
Before the meeting began the participants agreed 
upon two basic rules: there were to be no formal state­
ments longer than seven minutes and that no resolu­
tions (or even a joint communique) would be issued 
following the summit. Other than these basic par­
liamentary agreements, no formal plans existed on the 
agenda for the summit. 

Newsweek, in its preview ofthe summit, claimed that 
"exactly what will happen at Cancun is anybody's 
guess." · 

Prior to the conference the Reagan administration feared that the presence of the President of the United States would provide the nations ofthe third world with an opportunity to lash out at administration policies in front ofa global audience. Despite this concern Reagan decided to attend the summit, and much to his surprise, the rhetoric failed to critically attack his views. 
What then, resulted from Cancun? 
Some observers will claim that Cancun merely provided an opportunity for leaders of the poor nations to lobby on issues other than the unequal distribution of wealth between the hemi­spheres. 
India's President Indira 
Gandhi used the time to 
more general world vic twin­
meet with Reagan on her stead of blindly concentrat­country's disapproval of the ing on its internal economic proposed sale ofF-16 fighter difficulties at the price of jets to neighboring Pakistan. others. 
Nigerian President Alhaji Another view of Cancun Shehu Shagari decided that may also result after analysis Cancun was a good time to ofthe statements and atmos­
David Rickabaugh
News Editor 
Inside Friday 
,iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii!iiiiiiiiiiiiii~iii~iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii~ 
the pressing economic problems which face the Third World. 
By no means should this be interpreted as a change of course for the administration from the beliefthat every nation is responsible for its own economic and financial well-being to the support of global welfare. Reagan failed to agree on an established format for ongoing talks, but still managed to support future talks. (The main reason for this vacillation centers upon the lack of 
faith ofthe United States in the United Nations General Assembly. Reagan views the assembly as an area in which the U.S. is often wrongly denounced.) 
What all this rhetoric does indicate is that the ad­ministration realizes the importance ofthe Third World and the problems which it encounters. Cancun proves that the Reagan Administra­tion acknowledges the power of the under­developed nations to make their problems our problems, and that the United States must adopt a 
bring up his nation's con­
cern with the conditions in 
Angola and Namibia to the 
American delegation. 

Other analysts of Cancun could center their opinions upon the emphasisofsecuritywhich overshadowed the entire summit. 
No more than one head of state at a time was per­mitted to ride in an elevator at the Sheraton Inn which housed the conference room and delegates' quarters. Also, the balcony of Reagan's suite was draped with white curtains to safeguard against the possibility of a sniper attack. 
This view would claim that the world is currently in a chaotic state of discontent, prone to revolution, over which the leaders have no control. 
Many in a review ofthe Cancun summit will describe the mee.ting as the all-important starting point for a global dialogue on the problems which separate the two hemispheres. 
Though the issuing of a joint communique never resulted from Cancun, a verbal agreeemcnt and com­mitment to further negotiations resulted. The sincerity ofthis commitment became evident in the initial seven­minute opening statement of Reagan to the other par­ticipants when he promised a continued dialogue on 
phere which prevailed at the summit. This interpretation will simply call the con­ference an attempt by the Adminstration to pacify the leaders of the Southern Hemisphere. That is, that Cancun was used by Reagan as an opportunity to gain good global public realtions. With the recent protest in Western Europe against the nuclear policies of the United States, the world 
popularity ofRonald Reagan leaves much to be desired. This view would account for the switch from Reagan's original decision to bypass Cancun and stay in 
Washington to his final decision to attend the summit. The decision did not result from a change in the Presi­dent's opinions on the North-South economic dif­
fercnces but trom the possibility ofa negative change in the world's view ofthe United States. It will be months, or even years, before one of the 
views on Cancun emerges as the correct one. However, who would have ever imagined that a meeting that had taken place in the hills of Maryland would result in the basis of Mideast peace negotiations? 
The_Ohs.er.Y:er 
Design Editor ...................... Maura Murphy 
Design Assistants ........................ Jim Keyes 
Typesetter ............................... Bruce Oakley 
News Editor ........................ Tim VerceUoni 
Copy Editors ............................... Rich Adam 
Tim Neely 
Features Layout.............. Gregory Swiercz 
Sports Copy Editor .............. Chris Needles 
Typist ..................................... Dodee Carney 
Sports Supplement............. Skip Desjardin 
Gregory Swiercz 
ND Day Editor ........................ Paul McGinn 
SMC Day Editor .......:....... Mary Kay Hogan 
Ad Design .................. Fran & Mary & Mark 
Photographer .........., ................... Tonia Hap 
Guest Appearances .................. Maclennan 
The Souse master from Jotown 
Wastrels Yesterday's Supplement r,y Multimedia and Mohawk The Responsible Photographer(Wink) 
Enelt 

The Observer (USP·s 598 920) is published Monday through Friday and on home football Saturdays, except during exam and vacation periods. The ' Observer is published by the students of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Col· lege. Subscriptions may be purchased 
for $25 per year ($15 per semester) by wrrting The Observer, P 0. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 
The Observer is a member of The Associated Press All reproduction rights are reserved. 
Second class postage paid at Notre Dame. Indiana 46556. 

The OBSERVER FEATURES DEPARTMENT is looking jor FEATURE WRITERS!! 
contact Greg at 1715 NOW!! 
~UN\tER. Pii~S 1\MNooNees••• 

Michael Molinelli's 
brand New Collection 

of Campus Comics 
~olarity: 


Don't Make a Right 
now available at ND/SMC bookstores autograph party Nov. 2 3:30-5:00 LaFortune Rathskellar 
-~-~--~--~--------~---~-. ----~---. 
·--~-~---~--~-------------­
The Observer Friday, October 30, 1981 -page 3 


Amual CamtEgl1 Students aid United Way drive 
2 
3 By SONYA STINSON 130 section leaders attended a next year to account for inflation, 
News Staff meeting at the Library Auditorium, McTaggert said. 
· according to Bro.Joseph McTaggert, 
associate director of Campus Minis­The traditional bar graphs try. showing dormitory participation compared with last year's efforts and ·with other dormitories will again be
"Without the section leaders, the drive is effectively cut in half," Bro. 
a part of the drive. Future efforts toMcTaggert said. 
encourage student participation may include films directed atBro. McTaggert is working with informing students on what Unitedthis year's co-chairmen, Sean Digan and Joe Orie, in an effort to reach a Way is about. A directory is madegoal of "1 00 percent participation." 
available to the vice-presidents ofNext year's co-chairmen, Tom each hall and to the section leaders,Bogen and John Bardsley, are also showing which agencies receive working with this year's campaign. 
money from United Way. 
Ifthey succeed, the campaign will 
Organizations in the South Bend .-aise a total of sI 18,000, according community which benifit from to Ori<;. This year the donation from United Way indue Big Brothers/Big 

This year's United Way drive at Notre Dame will have greater par­ticipation by the dormitory section leaders in its organization and will expand its efforts to reach off­campus students, according to the coordinators of the drive. There are also plans to place next year's cam­paign under the direction ofStudent Activities instead of Campus Minis­try, which now organizes the drive. 
In a practice begun last year, the dormitory section leaders who col­lect from door to door have at­tended m411ngs with the organizers of the campaign to get better ac­quainted with its goals and purposes. This helps them 
This Domer applies his blow·torching skills to art as hefashions to approach the students more ef­this metal statue. (photo by Tonia Hap) 
fectively. Last Monday and Tuesday, 
At trustees'~ 


~presentsttrlntneeds 
Editor's note: The following ts issues at hand. that the time had come for fewer part of a week~}' series of student Recommendations of the student words and more action." gm'l!llllllent updates. group presented were evaluated Reflecting the meeting, Stu­
on By GREG O'MEARA with favorable results. Pat Borchers dent Body Vice President Tara Ken­Student Got'ernment pr.esentet.l a suggestion for and ney commented that "everyone received matching funds designated 
went out oftheir way to make us feel Notrt.· Dame's Student Govern­for hall improvements. Murday com­
important as students. They really ment was there when the Board of mented that "we have seen the Uni­listened to what we had to say." Mur· Trustees of the University met last versity take a step in the right day felt that his fifth Trustees week in the Center for Continuing direction" with regard to the Trus­meeting was the "most rewarding." Education. Rather than arming tees' acceptance ofa proposal to in· Nevertheless he pointed to an area themselves with formal resolutions stitute a study group to examine of concern. "The subcommittee of ami proposals, Student Body Presi· "peer" universities and their student the Board ofTrustees with which we dent Don Murday's committee came life. This group will focus onthe the meet does a good job ofrelaying our 
to the mn·ting to indicate where need for a student center. concerns to the Board; however, I student government has been The students present at the still feel that a student ~ttending the working and where emphasis and as­meeting noticed that members of general meeting would benefit not sistance art.· needed in the future. the Board ofTrustees talked less and 
only the students but the Board as This approach tended to reduce the listened more than in the past. Mur­well." Senior Pat Beytagh com­formality of the situation and en­day attributed this reaction to one of mented, "We're the ones paying for han<:e honest discussion of the two reasons: "either the students left our education; we ought to be able 
them speechless with their fine to have some authority in directing 
presentations, or the Board realized _which_way the ~niversity will go." 


St. Mary's establishes scholarship 
The Best in 
By SARA ZAPPIA 
Aged Steaks 
Neu•sStafl" 
120 N. Main Street Downtown, Mishawaka

A scholarship has het.·n es­tablished in mt.·mory of Martin H. 
255-7737 

Dull, a former professor of mathe­
for reservations 
matks at Saint Mary's Collegt.·. 
Lunch 11:00 A.M. to 2:00 P.M.

Sr. ;\'iiriam 1'. Cooney, chairman of 
Dinner 5:00 P.M. 

tht.· mathematics departmt.•nt, stated 
Closed Sundays & Holidays that the amount of the scholarship will he hast.·d on the interest from an endowment fund started hy Dr. and Mrs. Dull hdilrc his death. The fund t.·vcntually will he used to aid an incoming freshman who ~hows promise and <k-dication in mathematics. Additional funds presently arc heing contributed hy Dull's friends. rdativt.·s, and colleagues, as well as Saint Mary's alumni and the collcgt.· itself. It is not yet known when the scholarship will tirst he awarded. IJowcvcr. Thomas Becker, director of den·loprnem, stated that it could he issued as early as the fall of 1982. Although an amount has not yet hecn determined, Becker claimed that it will most likely start at JSOO and will increast.· as the fund itself in· t.·reases. The scholarship will he the first in the mathematics department of the College. Sr. Cooney stated that this was a major concern of Dull's. He felt that a scholarship in the depart· mcnt would provide an incentive to incoming freshmen. The guidelines for selecting a qualified freshman have not yet bt•en determined by the Develop­ment Department, but eventually will he. 


The Observer Friday, October 30, 1981 page4 

·AWACS approval prompts world 
•


reacttons 
(AP) Israel reacted with restraint yesterday to U.S. Senate ap­proval ofthe Saudi Arabian arms sale and said it expects President Reagan to ensure theJewish state's security. Saudi rulers expressed "deep gratitude" and said relations with America will improve. 
There was no comment from 
West European allies, and most Arab 
states were silent. 

The Soviets claimed the $8.5 bil­lion package, which includes the world's most sophisticated spy planes, will spur a new Mideast arms race and is part of a U.S. preparation for possible seizure of the region's 
oil fields. 

Israeli Prime Minister Menachem Begin, in a statement devoid of harshness, indicated he expected Reagan to hold to his pledge to "help Israel retain its military and tech­nological advantages in the Middle East." Reagan made the assurance in a note after the Senate voted 52-48 Wednesday night to approve the sale, the largest single U.S. arms ex­port package ever. 
Begin read the Reagan note and then told reporters, "We hope that these words of the president will be carried into realization." 
The official Cabinet statement expressed its "regret" over the sale to Saudi Arabia, "which is in a state of war with Israel, rejects the Camp David accords and finances terror in our region. A new and serious dan­ger now faces Israel -new since the restoration ofour statehood." 
Israel has argued its defense, keyed to the ability for surprise air strikes, would be seriously impaired by -Saudi possession of Airborne Warning and Control Systems planes and extra equipment for its F-15 fighter jets. 
The Saudi defense JiWinister Prince Sultan Ibn Abdel ~iz, said the vote "proved that the U.S. politi­cal decision is independent in the face of enormous pressures ... that tried to manipulate America's foreign policy in the service of the expansionist objectives of a foreign state." 
"The Saudi people will undoubt­edly never forget this stance by the friends," he said, and called on mem­bers of Congress who voted against the deal to "have the moral courage ... and give up that position." The House rejected the sale by a margin of nearly 3-1 two weeks ago but without Senate rejection, the sale goes ahead. 
While promising the deal will be 
· an "impetus for us to develop our relations with the United States," the prince said that would not come "at the expense of our nationalism or patriotism. It will be on an equalitarian basis, to serve the inter­ests ofthe two peoples." 

In Moscow, the official Soviet news agency Tass said the AWACS sale fits "into Washington's long­term policy ofincreasing supplies of American weapons to this already explosive region. All this pursues the goal of preparing for armed U.S. intervention in the case of a 'need' for a direct seizure ofthe oilfields." 
Paris' liberalLeMonde newspaper observed, "...It would serve nothing to deploy the quasi-Herculean ef­forts to get the Senate to swallow the sale ofthe AWACS ifit was to return to the diplomatic apathy that until now has characterized the American attitude in the Israeli-Arab conflict." 
Le Monde noted the planes would 
not be delivered until 1985, "which 
leaves plenty of time to see if Saudi 
Arabia separates itself from the 
'moderation' with which it is 
credited today." 

The French government, like 
other U.S. allies in Western Europe, 
issued no official reaction. 
South Africa maintains close ties 
with Israel, and the independent johannesburg Star newspaper said, "Israel will expect to be strengthened to offset exposure to AWACS detectors. At the same time, Saudi Arabia and other Arabs must not feel that there is anything sinis­ter about Israel's defensive capabilities. If the U.S. can perform this difficult balancing act, the AWACS deal will help to keep the peace and thus make the Middle East 
a safer place for Israel as well...." 
India, which has a friendship 
treaty with the Soviet Union, 
believes "the introduction ofsophis­
ticated arms into the region is a 
detriment to stability and peace," 
according to External Affairs Minis­
try spokesman).N. Dixit. 

China's official news agency Xin­
hua explained the arms deal as 
"precisely to cope with the Soviet 
threat through Saudi cooperation" 
but did not comment on it. 
Egyptian Foreign Minister Kamal 
Hassan Aly said the vote was a 
"positive turning point" in U.S.-Arab 
relations, and Egypt's only Mideast 
Arab ally, Sudanese President Gaafar 
Nimeiri, said it would have a "de~p 
and positive effect" on U.S.-Arab 
relations. 

Strike wave spreads in Poland 
WARSAW, Poland (AP)-Poland's 
strike wave spread to a major port 
and the universities yesterday, 
swelling the ranks of protesters to 
about 400,000 across the nation. 
Meanwhile, the military council of 
the Soviet-led Warsaw Pact began 
meeting in Hungary. 

Solidarity union officials said 40,000 construction workers struck 68 factories for two hours in the Bal­tic port ofSzczecin, on the East Ger­man border, and threatened a wider strike to get more buildingsupplies. 
In Budapest, the Warsaw Pact's military council opened a "regular session" attended by defense mini­sters or their assistants from the seven East Bloc member nations, the Hungarian news agency MTI said. 
It was not known if Poland's premier, party chief and defense minister, Gen. Wojciech Jaruzelski, was attending or what was on the agenda, but it was presumed Poland's unrest would be a major topic. 
Students and professors at 
Radom's higher engineering school 
occupied classrooms demanding 
dsissal of the rector. They got sup­
port from students at Warsaw Uni­
versity who staged a four-hour 
protest. They also received pledges 
of support from othercolleges and 
universities across Poland. 
The Radom students protested 
what they called "irregularities" in 
the election ofProf. Michal Hebda as 
rector, saying the school should be 
run by an elected, collective leader­
ship. 
The Observer 

Federal policies 

Pimentel talks on science funding 
By DAVE GROTE 
News Stuff 

Prof. <leurgc Pimentel spoke on 
the current public policy regarding 
scknce and the funding of basic 
research and devdopnient on Wed­
nesday evening. 

Pimentel, a professor a;. the Uni­
versity of California at Berkeley, has 
taken an active role in tlit: deter­
mination ofscientific policy, se!'ving 
from 1977 to 1980 as deputy direc­
tor of the National Science Founda­
tion. 

"Basic research funding is a vital element of science funding and it is important that basic research be healthy," said Pimentel. To show the current trend in public spending, Pimental presented figures from the federal budget for fiscal year 1982 and compared them to similar ligures in the 1980 fiscal year. These tigures showed cuts' in spending in every major department involved in bask research except the Depart­ment of Deft·nsc. 
An:onling to Pimentel, the largest cuts will take place in the Dcpart­mt·m of Education. which faces a 43 pcrcclll decrease in funding, but the Environmt·ntal Protn·tion Agency and thc Dcpartnwnt of Ent'fh'Y also face signilicant cuts, of 22 percnlt 
Forum airs Catholic 

untverstty 
By GREG KOSSE 
News Staff 

Yesterday's faculty forum, en­
titled "What Kind of Ideological or 
Intellectual Unity Characterizes a 
Great Catholic University?", 
featured speakers Fr. Ernan McMul­
lin of the Philosophy Department 
and john N. Mathews Professor of 
Law Ed Murphy. The presentation 
was a followup to the first forum, 
which dealt with Notre Dame's 
Catholic identity. 

Fr. McMullin began by stating that 
the ideological and intellectual uni­
ty of a university must be defined 
apart from it being Catholic. Then 
the Catholic influence on a great 
university can be determined. 

Intellectually three different roles need to work together to achieve unity. First, a university should be a home for liberal education, in other words a place where students and faculty are challenged to inquire. Secondly, a university should have a presence of professional schools. Finally, It should be a place of research, where one can be creative and innovative. 
Fr. McMullin argued against ideological points, stating that they are part ofa larger idea and that they distort the real characteristics of a university. 
He then went on to define a great Catholic university. According to McMullin, intellectual unity ties into Catholic doctrine. Catholic thought develops and helps unity in intellec­tual areas. The church is constantly changing and this leaves open the differeru intellectual schools tp change also. 
Mr. Murphy stated that the basic importance of a great Catholic uni­versity is that it is Catholic-oriented. He said, "Every university is a religious institution," and a Catholic university is guided by the teachings ofChrist and the revelation ofGod's word to the Church. "True educa­tion," he continued, "must be God­centered." 
According to Prof. Robert Vacca, organizer of the Faculty Forums, the next meeting will be in early December. 
and 16 percent, respectively. Even the National Science Foundation and the Department of Health and Human Services, which runs the Na­tional Institue of Health, face cuts in spending. He also reminded the audience that these figures were not adjusted for inflation. 
The Department of Defense, · though, will see approximately a 50 percent increase in research and development spending from 1980. Globally, only 24 percent of research and development money is ~pent on the military, while in the United States it is much higher. "The question here is whether these deci­sions were made with proper input from qualified people who under­stand the issues," said Pimentel. 
Another statistic used by Pimentel showed the number of dissertations produced in the field of chemistry. The statistics show the exponential growth of their number. It also shows that many of the other in­dustrial nations, especially the Soviet Union. arc making great strides to catch up. These figures emphasize that other nations arc working to catch up to tht• United States in a field in which it has kd. "Basic research and development is vital if we hope to maintain leader­ship in this field," commcntnl Pimnud. 
l'ruf Pimt·ntd then turnnl to the.· issue ofsckncc policy planning. Ur1­dcr the Nixon Administration the Oftkt• of Science Jnd Technology and tht· position of science advisor were abolished. When Ford took office he talked to many prominent people in science and formulated a law stating that basic scienitk research is directly related to long­term economic health and to welfare ofsociety on the whole. This law also re-established the Office of Science and Technology and re­quires that every five years a five­year plan must . be developed identifying significant scientific items that will contribute to national 
interests. 

Carter, though, cut the office's 
staff from 30 to 15 people and trans­
ferred the responsibility for an an­
nual report from the Science Office 
-first to the National Science 
Foundation and then to the National 
Academy ofScience. 

, The current administration has 
shown ·no definite program in 
regards to a policy towards science 
and technology, although it has 
shown consistency in certain areas. The Reagan administration has made known its intention to let industry be more responsible for the research and development neces­sary in industry. It has shown, though, a willingness to step in and conduct research on things it feels are beneficial that industry cannot develop. The most obvious.example is fusion technology. 
Pimentel feels that business does not have the resources to adequate­ly assume all the activities that the government would like to divest it­self of. Pimentel feels, "the Ad­ministation will have to do a lot better than they are doing now." 
This was the second lecture in the Distinguished Scho!arship Lecture Series. 
Halloween dance at logan Center 
The Notre Dame/Saint Mary's Council for the Retarded will spon­sor a Halloween Dance at the Logan Center on Saturday, Oct. 31 from 7:30-10 p.m. 
There will be a live band and refreshments will be served. All volunteers are invited to dress up and help out. New volunteers are welcome. 
Friday, October 30, 1981 -page 5 

The Ufe photo exhibit which opened in the Snite Museum over break bas attracted many visitors. (photo by Tm1ia Hap) 

52554 US 31 North 
across from NORTH VILLAGE MALL 
Old English Atmosphere Excellent Steak, Prim.e Rib and Sea Food 
OPEN Mon-Thursday 11:30-10:00 p.m. Friday 11:30-12:00 p.m. Saturday 5 p.m.-12 p.m. Sunday -4-9 p.m. 

Longest Happy Hour in Town 
11:30-7:00 p.m. Monday-Friday live Entertainment 5 Nights a Week in the lounge 
~!1~111111111111111111111111111111'1111111111111111111111
itocIBM PersonalCompute


ishere.
1
I 

vccLUSIVII.Y Ar 
~~~~~­

lnnlrnmulliiiiiiiiiiiliiiliiiiliiiiiiiiliiiiliiliiinn 
SIX 
CHARACTERS IN SEARCH OF AN AUTHOR 
OCTOBER 30,31 8:00 pm WASHINGTON HALL 
$1~ 
*A ND/SMC SECOND SCENE PRODUCTION* 
The Observer Friday, October 30, 1981 -page 6 
0

f'. ...................................,: SH0t1uydeossnAstssoae·xatepsert·ence lay mm·l·stry____ ,/,­
' -~The Observer~ _J
·. 

By TRICIA HUBERTY domestic internships, each ofwhich There are several expectations
needs • 
i 
NewsStaff requires a one-year commitment, which one may fulfill through this and two international internships, program. The purposes include an: The Holy Cross Association Lay each of which is a two-and-a-half increase in personal growth, an op­Freshmen + Volunteer Program is a service-year program. portunity for "'ork in an area of 
i 
+ oriented organization which Domestic areas include Portland, need, an opportunity to know anoth­: and + provides the opportunity for college Oregon; Phoenix, Arizona; Hayward, er culture, and finally to be able to
+ graduates to experience a year or California; and Colorado Springs, integrate one's Christian respon-
SOphomores • more ofwork in the lay ministry. Colorado. Nairobi, Kenya and San-sibility into actions along with the : The program began four years ago tiago, Chile are the international support ofthe Holy Cross fathers. 
+ 
and has grown to include four locales. Joe Regotti, a senior at Notre

+ 
Dame who has applied for the San-



interested in 
+ · · tiago program, commented, "One 
.i 'College Bowl' team 
must realize the commitment to 
: 
community building, a simple life, and work for the welfare of others." He believes it is "an opportunity for


Computer Typesetting 
(no experience necessary) 
: t th • 1-d extensive personal growth." 
Call Bruce 1715 
i ~~~~ es ~~,~~~:~~<ion" #~~:~f~i~1~~.:j?~
• News Staff Basically, however, College Bowl is clinic, an alcohol treatment center, a Paid Position/One Night Weeklyj4-6 Hrs. : "good competition and good fun" program for the elderly, or other 
++++..+++++++++++•• • • • • • • • • • ••• • • 
-_~sMC-ND STUDENTS ~ SUMMER PROGRAMS 
LONDON: May IS-June 17 
with travel in Ireland, Scotland and France 
RQME: June IS-July 14 
with travel in France, German_y and Switzerland 
Classes auailable in: ··business ··philosophy ·-history --theatre --sociology 
Informational meeting: Nou. 4 7pm Rm. 232 Moreau, SMC All Welcome
•

For more info, contact: Prof. Black at 284-4948 or 272-3726 

COUPON COUPON 

* 
"I had a strong impression the hospital should have 777 beds,"
buy one big mac! I 
• 
Roberts wrote. 

I •••• ' 
l:• 
The evangelist plans to have 777 beds in use by 1988, although it is


get ~one free I 
I opening with only 294 -all thatI state agencies would approve.
I •• •• •• RODNEY •• •• ••• 
From the start, Roberts''plan for 
the City of Faith drew oppositionI from some other Tulsa hospitals,I which charged it would give the city 
expires Nov. 24, 1981 I ·DANGERFIELD 
I 
too many hospital beds, that it
I ••• FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 6 8: 00 : 
I 
Offer good only at McDonald's ® 
would create a shortage of nurses
I •

-------------. I .
I . 
and other hospital personnel and

I • NOTRE DAME A.C.C. :
I 
1519 X. Ironwood Dr. 
that it would eventually raise the
I 
I 
cost of medical care here.
South Bend, In. 
• TICKETS ON SALE AT THE A.C.C. Roberts countered by predicting 
that most of the patients at the City
I : BOX OFFICE. ALSO AVAILABLE 
·• •••• of Faith would be "partners" of 1 his 
I 
m,inistry from around the world.
:AT: ROBERTSON'S INS. BEND, AND:
I You deserve a break today.™ 
rather than Tulsa-area residents. HeI • THE CONCORD MALL~-ST. JOSEPH'S : also noted that new medical person­I nel would be graduated every year
.: BANK (MAIN BRANCH), 1st SOURCE •
I from his university. 
I Limit 1 coupon per customer per visit :BANK (MAIN), ELKHART TRUTH, .: Opposition to the hospital died ·cash redemption value 1120 of a cent. away as Roberts pushed ahead with
I : SUSPENDED CHORD (ELKHART). : 
construction. 



~-------------------------~ 
Notre Dame will be represented for participants as well as spectators. places involving work with the poor. in a College Bowl tournament this Those interested in applying for weekend at the Illinois Institute of Notre Dame will compete in the the prosram should contact Mary Technology in Chicago. College regional College Bowl tournament Ann Roemer in the LaFortune Volun­Bowl, "the varsity sport of the in February at the Universiy of Il-teer Services Office. 
mind," is a question-and-answer linois with hopes of gaining a berth The application deadline for the game played between two teams of in the national tournament held in International Program is Thursday, four players each. March. .-Nov. 12. 
Four Notre Dame students and one alternate will participate in the 10-team tournament, which ~ill be taped and broadcast by CBS Radio. 
••• RJCtiS
Also currently under way is a campus College Bowl tournament in 
which 16 teams are competing to and his commitment grows out of
continuedfrom page 1 
play in the finals, to be held after 
his experience as a youth with Thanksgiving. Dr. Peter Lombardo, tions, Luttrell said. "They may 
tuberculosis and stuttering.moderator of Notre Dame's College receive counseling, but it will not be 
At 15 he had run away from home Bowl, explained that the highly forced on the patients," he added. 
and was living with a former basket­diversified nature of the questions Most of the prayer partners are in 
ball coach at Atoka, Okla. During a make formal preparations for the their 30s or 40s and come from a 
basketball game he collapsed, contest nearly impossible. "Students variety ofdenominations. Church af­
hemorrhaging from the lungs, and must rely on a bank of intelligence filiation was not a factor in selection, 
was bedridden for five months. and must be able to recall facts Luttrell said. 
"I needed to be healed," he said. "I quickly," Lombardo said. The ministers and volunteers will 
believed I could be healed. I have offices in the hospital so they 
believed I could be cured."
There art e two kinds ofquestions: 
can be available to patients quickly. 
Roberts said he was healed sud­the toss-up, which has a three­
Luttrell said 10 salaried ministers are 
denly. He described it as ansecond time limit, and the bonus, 
now on the staff and that volunteers 
"explosion inside my lung." A shortwhich has a five-second time limit. 
would be trained to help the full­
time later his stuttering ended andThe bonus question is earned by timers. 
the bleeding stopped, he said.
correctly answering a toss-up. Point 
Roberts sees the City of Faith as a 
According to Roberts, all God's in­values are assigned for each type of 
natural extension of his ministries 
struments should be used to heal thequestion, and the team with the hig­and of Oral Roberts University, sick, so he advocates combininghest point total after two seven­
located adjacent to the medical cen­
medicine with prayer.
minute halves is the winner. 

ter in Tulsa The medical center will "These counselors or 'prayer 
Notre Dame, well represented in provide experience for students in partners' will complete the healing College Bowl competition, vied for the university's schools ofmedicine, team of physicians and nurses, the national championship in 1979. nursing, dentistry and theology. providing complete health care to Lombardo classified Notre Dame as Q.--.ht"rts helieves in divine healing, 
both the patients and their families," the hospital said in a statement. 
• 
The ultra-modern complex con­sists of a 60-story clinic, a 30-story hospital and a 20-story research and 
continuing education center. 
The research tower will con­centrate on preventive and curative medicine, primarily in areas of can­cer, heart disease and problems of the aging . 
Roberts wrote in his book I Will Rain Upon YourDesert that after his oldest daughter, Rebecca, died in a 1977 plane crash, God told him to
•• •• IDON'TGET NO 
build the center, detailing even how
...... 

the buildings should be designed.
• 


' 
:• 
' 






Editorials 

Friqay, October 30, 1981 -page 7 
•
The lobster connect.ton 
Tom always dreamed of saving the world. Top in his class at Yale Law School, "Mr. Altruism" had planned to use his legal education and a superior intellect to "reduce human suffering." 
Like so many of America's shar­pest law graduates, however, Tom isn't forcing chemical companies to clean up their toxic-waste sites. In­stead, he's earning $44,000 per year as a first-year associate at one of New York's leading corporate law firms. 
Our earnest friend is only the latest in a string of pals who've succumbed to extravagant recruiting campaigns by corporate Jaw firms. Given peer pressures and financial inducements, 
"Tom isn't forcing chemical companies to clean up . . . he's earning $44,000 per year as a first-year as­
sociate. ,, 
it's easy to see why. 
This month, America's major law 
firms arc busy recruiting students, 
especially those from the top 15 
~chnols. They're armed with goodies 
that would ..:urry the envy of the 
sleaziest college football recruiter. 
Tht: «.:on game begins at the start of a student's ~econu year. 
In a recent survey of summer in­terns at prominent law fms, The American Lawyer magazine report that, in addition to $!!00-per-week salaries, many second-year law stu­dents have enjoyed the following: 
eot"fers by one New York tinn to pil k up the tab for five "fantasy 

Maxwell Glen · 
But should our pal Tom follow the example of other attorney friends, he'll soon be taking more pride in his possessions than in his achieve­and Cody Sh~arer ments. Before long he'll be driving a $24,000 turbo-charged Porsche on 
Here and Now the road to happiness. 
While ~orporate America may need a good defense, it's a pity the nights" on the town. private sector has a monopoly on the . • Summer-rental subsidies of up nation's sharpest young minds. to 75 percent from another New York Where are our potential leaders you 
firm. may ask?­

• Nightly outdoor concerts and They're out eating lobster-and weekly parties. Last summer, one ~I at the expense of the taxpayer. Atlanta firm threw one bash touted as 
. a "Drivin', Raftin', Hikin', Swim­min', Baii-Playin', Ridin', Cookin', Eatin', Drinkin', Storytellin', Cam­pin', and other raucous adven­turesome weekend. " t If the attractions of a summer internship don't clinch an associate's loyalty, some firms let yacht privileges, steak tartar lunches and other pleasantries do the talking. 
"I just couldn't tum it down," poor Tom told us recently. " I know what you guys think. I had to pay off my law school bills. And there was intense competition to land a job in . New York City. Even my dean said I shouldn't reject an opportunity like this." 
Meanwhile, Tom's counterparts at Stanford and Harvard are receiving placement counselors' advice to forego public interest law. 
Last month, a Harvard placement advisor told students with an eye on public interest law to interview with corporate fim1s as a safety valve. With the federal government's Legal Services Corp. out of business and a freeze on government hiring, looking 


for a public service job might be worth neither the hassle nor the money, he said. 

Are w~ing the Soviets ?
Of course, though junior as­

To bust this brainpower trust, law schools should consider requiring students to spend their third year working with trial lawyers in local courts as part of their degree program. Those students who do work part time do so usually on their own initiative. Besides gaining courtroom experience, future lawyers could soil their hands on something other than realty agree­ments and cracked crab. 
It's true that most private firms wholeheartedly work to obtain justice for all individuals and or­ganizations. You need not work for Common Cause to defend the public trust. 
By the time senior partners enter public life in their late 40s and 50s, however, most have lost their zeal .and idealism for healthy change. This is the prodigious reality of the legal world. 
We can't condemn our friends for falling into the lobster trap. For them, it's the only game in town. But we wish they wouldn't sacrifice their youthful perspective for pricey prawns so soon. 


sociates may work long, stressful 

An article written by M. Stanton
hours at major firms, the amenities of 

Evans for the October issue of The
first-class travel. lobster dinners and 

American Legion summarizes the
deluxe hotels can he irresistible. 

significant transfers of Western tech­
Other friend' who've been smitten 

nology to the Soviet Union and the
by big-time corporate law readily ad­

evidem:c that the Soviets are using it
mit it's a diftkult lifestyle to reject. 

for military purposes. 
There are three problems involved in this procelts. The first problem i~ that we have sold advanced technol­ogy to the Soviets which has both
P.O. Box Q peaceful and military applications. 
Dear Notre nume Faculty, Students, and Stuff: . 
I hope that as many of you as pos­siblc will be able to participate in one or more of the social concerns events related to "The Threat of Nuclear War" during the week of November 10-15. 
Dr. James Grant. Executive Direc­tor of UNICEF who received an honorary degree from Notre Dame, will be addressing issues of develop­ment which arc directly related to our current spending on defense and nuclear armaments. He will be speaking in the Memorial Library Auditorium on Tuesday, November 10, at 8:00p.m. 
On November II, we anticipate with more than a hundred other uni­versities and colleges in the United 

amples while concentrating upon the 
States with the Union of Concerned , some of these events with you. 

manufacture of trucks and diesel
Scientists to address the threat of Ever devotedly in Notre Dame, 

engines in the Kama River truck
nuclear war. We have invited Dr. (Rev.) Theodore M. Hesburgh, 

plant. When completed, it will be the
James Muller, a practicing car-C.S.C. 

largest truck factory in the world,
diologist and professor at Harvard President One think-tank estimates that the West has supplied over $50 billion inMedical School and a Notre Dame efficient machine tools, chemical

graduate. He has recently returned plants, transfer lines, precise scien­
from a meeting with Soviet tific instruments, and associatedphysicians concerning the impor­technologies. Items traded to Mos­

tance of a "nuclear freeze" in both cow during the 1970's included laser 
the United States and Russia. He has technology, semi-conductors, high­
a lot to share with our community. speed computers, jet-engine technol­
In South Bend. there will be a talk ogy, advanced radar systems, and
on November 12 by Rev. William inertial guidance technology. Mr.

Sloan Coffin who helped us at Notre Evans cites an exhaustive study
Dame in the early development of the which concluded that 90 percent of
Hunger Coalition and is a strong the technology needed by the Soviets 
critic ofcurrent armament policy. On to improve their military has come
November 14 and 15, we will have from the West through transfers of
Rev. Daniel Berrigan, S.J. with us. such "dual use" technology.
I personally think that the issue of The second problem is that the
nuclear armaments and war is a criti-Soviets have channeled the technol­
cal one and it is important for us to ogy away from peaceful purposes in­
respond as global citizens and per­to the hands of the military machine. 
sons concerned about justice and Mr. Evans cites several specific ex­
peace. 1 look forward to t sharing 
Box Q!_!V(}tr~pame, IN 46556 
The Observer is an independent Editorials represent the opm1on of a newspaper published by the students of the majority of the Editorial Board. Commen· lfniversity of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint taries, opinions and letters are the views of, Mary's College. It docs '~ot necessarily their authors. Column space is available to reflect the policies of the administration of all members ofthe community, and the free either institution. The news is reported as expression of varying opinions on campus, 
accurately and as objectively as ~ssible.. through letters, is encouraged with a maximum annual production rate of 250,000 trucks and 100,000 diesel engines. It has been built with the aid of 80 Ame1ican firms and over $350 million in our technology. 

While it was being planned, the Soviets sent "assurances" that Kama River products would be used for peaceful purposes. When an offi­cial in the Commerce Department notified the Carter Administration in May 1979 that a significant portion of the trucks and engines were being used for military purposes, he was relieved of his duties. His superiors argued that there was no Soviet promise to usc the trucks exclusively for civilian purposes, according to Mr. Evans. Seven months later the Soviets used Kama trucks in their in­vasion of Afghanistan. Mr. Evans states that Kama products arc also being used in Eastern European units by the Russians. These units are now intimidating the Polish. 
The third problem is that Western governments, especially past American administrations, haven't exercised more control over the process. The incident regarding Kama trucks didn't change American export policy toward the Soviet Uni­on. Sucl! inaction has been typical of the response to past abuses. Mr. Evans points out that transfers of "dual use" t~;chnology from NATO members and Japan to the Soviet Union can be screened by a commit­tee comprised of representatives 
Andrew Cocbron 
from the NAto countries and Japan. Each member country can veto a transaction if it believes it" ill aid the Soviet military. Unfortunately, the 
U.S. has led the way in circumvent­ing the committee's procedures in the name of "detente." 
If the Reagan administration is serious about closing the gap he­tween the Soviet and American military forces, it must change Soviet export policy. Senator Jake Gam of Utah and other Congressmen are pursuing tighter controls on stratigic exports. Senator Gam has stated, • •... what remains of our once vaunted military superiority, on which our national security increas­ingly depends, is in part being whittled away through a wide variety of technology transfer mec­hanisms... The Soviets have ob­tained too many of the national security sensitive technologies and commodities that have provided the 
U.S. with a margin of military safety over the Soviet Union. Only a dramatic change in our export policies combined with the ad­ministrative capability to protect our national security, will be sufficient to dothejob." 

Executive News Editor.........................Kelli Flint Photo Editor........................................john Macor News Editor..................................Tim Vercelloui News Editor............................. David Rickabaugh Business Manager .........................Rich Coppola' Sports Editor ..............................Michael Ortman Controller.............................................joe Mulflur Editorials Editor.......................Anthony Walton AdvertisingManager.......................Chris Owen Features Editor .........................Gregory Swiercz Production Manager ...................Michael Monk SMC Executive Editor...........Mary Agnes Carey .Circulation Manager .............Tom MacLennan 
Editorial Board and Department Managers

==Ihe_-Obsel:Yer.== 

Editor-in-Cbief..............................john McGrath SMCNews Editor......................Cathy Domanico 
a A 
• 
r 
Friday, October 30, 1981 -P<J.ge 8


FeatUres 

Elizabeth Blakey 
Play presents complex theme 
L 
uigi Pirandello'sSix Characters 
in Search ofan Author is a play 
within a play. The concern of his 
drama, however, does not lie within 
the play itself. 
As the title: may indicate, Six Characters is the story ofsix dramatic characters searching for someone to produce theirstory. The story is a tragedy of rejection, adul­tery, illegitimacy, prostitution and unknown identity. The characters are the FATHER, the MOTHER(who pairs offwith one ofFATHER'-s clerks and sends packing), the SON, and the STEPDAUGHTER. BOY, and CHILD (the three offspring of the MOTHER and the clerk). A seventh character, MADAME PACE, appears in the second act. She is the proprietor ofa seamstress shop which doubles as a whorehouse. 
In the story, the second-mate­clerk dies and MOTHER and her kids return to FATHER's town without his knowledge. Meanwhile, FATHER, being spouse-less, begins visiting MADAME PACE's without the intentions of having his clothes mended. MOTHER and DAUGHTER begin working in the shop -MOT­HER starts a sewing profession, while DAUGHTER enters into "the 
oldest profession." DAUGHTER's occupation remains unknown to MOTHER, but more importantly, also remains unknown to FATHER. As you might guess, FATHER 
eventually meets STEPDAUGHTER in an uncomfortable position (a pun). This tragedy, though quite stimulating, did not inspire author 
Pirandello to write it. He wrote 
about something ofa different 
nature. 
In my early meeting with this play, I was annoyed by the "search-for-an­author" concept. I considered it a lazy trick that Pirandello dreamed up in order to esc l ape the laborious task ofwriting the "real''play. Many contemporary critics felt the same way. In 1925, four years after writing the play, Pirandello published a very convincing defense of what he did present us. It was here that I began to fully see what the author's con­cerns were. Although Pirandello himselfcalled the search concept "a way out ofdificulty," it was a way out ofwriting something he felt would only be trivial. It was a way in­to writing about what he most often wrote about. 
Pirandello's works, as perhaps dis­
cernible from some ofthe titles: The 

Outcast, It Is So!( If You Think So), Each in His Own Way, As You Desire Me, When YouAreSome­body, deal with various modern problems: isolation from one's self and from other people; the misin­terpretation ofother's words and ac­tions; the placing ofpersonal structures on an ambiguous world; the conflict between the idea ofim­mutable form and the fact ofour ever-changing "reality"; and the question ofwhat is illusion and what is real. 
In Six Characters in SearciJ ofan Author, Luigi Pirandello has given us a dialectic ofthese concerns, the ideas which were the "torment of his soul." These problems are the 
torment of most modern men as well. The dialogue ofideas exists al­legorically on top ofthe datum of the characters' story and the device of the search. The tragedy of the family is only a prop: the characters' searching is a stage. Above those materials, we have the ordered presentation of modern chaos. There is confusion, especially in the drama's closing action. Pirandello means to speak about the lack of meaning and about the fluctuations in the world that thwart attempts for understanding it. Pirandello, almost contrary to his concerns, is a master ofform and multi-level allegory. 
Six Characters in Search ofan Author is an unusual and complex play being premiered tonight at Washington Hall. I can't wait. 

Six Characters in Search ofan Author 
PLACE: Washington H:ill DATES SHOWING: October 30 and 31 TIME:Sp.m. PRICE: $1 

The true meaning of freedom 
I 
can remember when I first 
learned whatfree meant. I was·6 years old and on my weekly shopping-cart pleasure cruise of the local supermarket. As we passed the Cool Whip a mysterious lady ac­costed us and popped a piece of sausage into my mouth. "Free samples, ma'am," she said. We " docked for a time and while she and my mother discussed the spicing of these links, I cleaned out the rest of 
the frying pan. Mom quickly 
excused us and hit a hard right rud­
der toward the checkout counter. I 
turned to acknowledge the strange 
woman's kind offering and recorded 
an unforgetable image -the lady 
smiling and waving and the red, white and blue crepe paper of the display booth flapping in the air­conditioned breeze. I knew then and 
there that it would be great living in the land of the free. Since then I have learned, beingof the priveleged collegiate class, of 
Paul Kosidowski 
Second Thoughts 
the many meanings offree. In high school! heard about something calledfree enterprise -a term that was often found within a con­glomeration of words such as America, apple pie and, more recently, Toyota. As I matured intel­lectually, Idiscovered that usingfree enterprise along with words like Samuelson and Freidman could get me a few free drinks at country club cocktail parties. Now I hear about 
Tim Neely 



Trivia quiz VI 
T
he trivia quiz returns this week R "I'm Gonna Sit Right Down and with a notable lack oforiginality. Write Myselfa Letter" -Billy Wil­But first, to take care oflong-past-Iiams due business, the last quiz asked you 9. "Have You Seen Your Mother, to name the artist for each ofthese Baby, Standing in the Shadow?" ­long song titles, and here they arc: The Rolling Stones 
l. "lfi Said You Have a Beautiful 10. "You Took the Words Right Body Would You Hold It Against Out of My Mouth"-Meat Loaf Me" -The Bellamy Brothers Second, I wish to announce that 
2. 
"Where Were You When 1Was the quiz sho.uld begin running on a Falling in Love" -Lobo weekly basis again starting this 

3. 
"Everybody's Got Something to week. Hide Except Me and My Monkey" -Finally, this week's The Beatles "unoriginal"quiz consists often · 4. "When You're in Love with a short song titles. Name the artist. 


Beautiful Woman"-Dr. Hook 
5. 
"Your Ma Said You Cried in Your Sleep Last Night" -Kenny Oino 

6. 
"The Love ISaw in You Wasjust a Mirage" -Smokey Robinson and the Miracles 

7. 
"You've Never Been in Love Like This Bt"fore" -Unit Four Plus Two 


l. "Be" 
2. 
"Him" 

3. 
"SOS" 


4. "Fly" 
S. "Babe" 
6. "Orly" 7."MTA" 
8. 
"Don't" 

9. 
".Jet" 

10. 
"Dazz" 




, I 
I 

the company will provide it free to workers who can't afford it, even if the laws don't require such benevolent actions. 
I make such assumptions in good faith, yet I have seen and probably will continue to see examples which challenge my optimism. I remember hearing the personnel director ofa large company apologize to prospective employees because "Affirmative action says we have to hire some more goddam niggers before we hire good people like you." I remember the horror of the disaster at a Kansas City hotel, and recall how workers secretly removed the remaining walkway in the middle ofthe night, thus cover­ing up any building code violations that may have been discovered. I remember Love Canal. 
Can we suggest rather than mandate policies that serve the public good and still get the same results? Will ethical practices prevail if they are not legislated? I hope so. One thing we have going fo,-us is that there are manygood busines­smen who know that altruism is good business. One must also believe that man is basically ethical, and that most leaders will makt· decisions accordingly. But there is also something about the human mind becomes very disturbmg in light of its new-found fret:dom. 
"So convenient a thing it is to be a 
<.L£(1}JJ6 R.YAN 
reasonable creature, since it enables 
one to find or make a reason for 
everything one has a mind to do." 
Ben Franklin said that and I firmly 
agree. Human rationality is both our 
most prized possession and our 
most threatening fault. Today. we 
have a mind to improve the 
economy, and it seems we are wil­
ling to sacrifice other substantial tenets ofour society: the purity of our air and water, the safety ofour workers and the rights ofthe con­sumer to make informed decisions regarding their purchases. 
It is frightening to observe our own thinking processes. I once read a letter from the parents ofa boy who had just been killed in a motor­cycle accident. They were com­plaining that their son's death had started people talking about requir­
ing motorcyclists to wear helmets. They said their son had a right not to wear a helmet, even ifit would have saved his life. They said they were glad he died enjoying the thing he loved most: riding his bike...with his hair blowing in the breeze. 
I am anxious at the prospect ofa country regaining its freedom. 1at times look as optimistJcally to the future as our country's kader~ do. But with this optimism io; a hesita­tion. a thoughtful pau~c. It is then that I realize that freedom should be buth loved and feared. And it is for our ~akc that I hope wt: all are afraid. 

this wonderful concept everywhere. It seems thatfree enterprise -like big banu music and skinny ties -is making a big comeback. 
I can remember trying to figure out exactly who was going to be free with thisfree enterprise business. I knew that the slaves were free al­ready -we didn't have to bother about them anymore. And I knew there had to be more to it than my infant recollections ofsupermarket goodies. Frankly, I was puzzled. 
Today, even after countless classes, books and cocktail parties, I am still puzzled. Some interesting ideas are sneaking their way into the , minds ofAmerica under the guise offreedom. Most people think that freedom is great because it is what America stands for. It's what Ben and Tom and john made all the 
ruckus about a couple centuries ago. They had the right idea: Americans should be able to do what they want when they wanr and to whomever they want to do it to. Even if they ain't American. 
Lately though, people have been mad because the government has been telling them what to do. They say that is "un-American." The presi­dent wants to get business back into the swing of things so he's making them free again. That's where I really get confused. When we get govern­ment out ofbusiness, who is gaining their freedom? 
Government regulations seem to be the big bullies in thefreedom game. Business leaders should be able to freely decide how to run their business. After all they are "leaders" and we should trust them. 
Ifwe tell them that people will become sick is there is too much Carbon monoxide in the air, we can be sure that business leaders will keep that in mind when they design their plants, even ifwe don't threaten to take them rocourt ifthey don't. Or ifwe tell them that workers can get hurt if they don't wear ~akty equipment on the job, 



Friday, October 30, 1981 -page 9 
The Observer--Features 

A letter from Mary Beth 

L
ots ofpeople will say: Oh, my seven kids. How do you do it? I know they want to hear about the grace 
,.Rev. Robert Grif6n 
ofGod-but, really, Griff, wine helps. I consider wine a great gift from God. My brother needs to hear that the washing and bathrooms arc my pits, even though he 

:Letters To A Lonely God
knows I can handle them. But wine still helps. It was lovely ofyou to call. There I was in a downer .... ­set the alarm clock for the beginningofanother day; and
with four teenagers who accuse me of not caring and yet every time I ask a question, they say: "What do you 

by that act, you renew -without even thinking about it -the commitment to be faithful to promises that have
want to know for?" I hurt from times ofbeing told I'm. been accumulating since the hour ofyour marriage
boring them when the level ofconversation goes one step above the football game on Friday. 

vows. That ordinary gesture ofsettingan alarm clock, it I had one hell ofa week with everyone being 
seems to me, represents a mystery and miracle of sick...little Kt·vin was especially hit bad, and I had to 
human love. You may not feel like winding a clock. You spend the night in the bathroom with the hot water 
may hate having to keep schedules that measure out stt·am helping him to breathe. So we sat up all night and 
your life in orthodontists' appointments. Yet, you have talked. Set·, after all these years ofall-night sessions with 
make a convenant with existence, and sacrifice like that sick kids, I really value talk -talk relaxes and diverts 
on a cross has an alarm clock as its domestic symbol. "the mind and then the muscles relax, and the breathing 
I think at the end ofcreation, when the world is improvcs....Aftcr all those hours, I was telling Kevin 
finished and we are judged, we will find out how tired about things that happened fifteen years ago. 
God is. I think He will say to parents: "Now you know I have a very intelligent daughter who gets up each 
how it has been with me. You thought, because 1was a 
~~~ 
heavenly Father, I never worried. You thought that wants to be a scientist, but she practices more for being a.m. at '5:4'5 to fix her hair-she has always told me sho 
being God, I could never cry. You thought that being a manicurist. Sure, she gets straight A's -but she's not 
holy, I couldn't get discouraged ifl was offered in­getting up early to read a book. 
gratitude when I asked for love. How could you think I 
Off-campus living : 
was your Father if I couldn't accept the heartbreak of seeing children who fail?" 
You should be able to offer me many insights. I need 
insights. 

Mystery is what I deal with as a priest, Mary Beth. Family love is the only miracle Ihave really seen; all the 
Letterfrom Mary' Beth 

More than a way of life 
rest are postponed promises, like our hope for the insights. I'm not even smart enough to understand why 
To which I answer: Mary Beth dear, I don't have any 

D
resurrection ofthe dead. IfGod is not present in the espite the fact that a s_izablc percentage ofthe student body lives
love that makes marriages and accepts the terrifying there, most dorm residents have no insight into what it is to livenice people like you and Tom do crazy things like get­responsibility ofchildren, how can there be truth inting married and having children. Don't you know that offcampus. After a half semester ofoff-campus living, I think I am sacraments, or comfort in creeds? The final candleyou could have gone on the stage and become a qualified to say what is and is not. The common denominators of
could flicker out before the last empty tabernacle on all 0-C residents are rent and crime. Whenever two 0-C peopleRot.·kcttc? You could have ripened into a lady novelist earth. As long as couples make their covenantsoftoget­meet, talk inevitably turns to one ofthe two topics. "My damnwith tortoise shell glasses and straight hair who talks to herness in spirit and flesh, the Church could still light landlord's after me for that rent again. l)O friggin' hues and he stillDick Cavett about what lousy lovers poets make. You lamps signifying the Lord's presence in the world. Thecould have marketed cosmetics, like Helena hasn't fixed the leaky toilet yet."
scenario ofcovenants, in its simplest moments, comesRubenstein; you could have nursed sick people in Cal­"Did you hear what happened over on St. Louis St.? Two dudesdown to a mother spending the night in the bathroomcutta, like Motht.·r Teresa; you could have popularized broke into this guy's house and held him at gunpoint while theywith a feverish little boy, exorcising the demon ofsick­sin, like Shelley Winters. Instead, you send the vintage cleaned out his refrigerator. The poor guy's distraught."
ness with her conversation. I seems to me as simple as Food. Once moved 0-C, that box ofcrackers and tin ofcht~cseyt.·ars in Cleveland, with sick little as your Duke of that.
Windsor. You spick-and-span toilets, which has to he spread that used to lay around your dorm room take on stark impor-You are not an heiress, sailing yachts to the Greektacky for any woman, even in Cleveland. Did you never tance. 
­isles, Mary Beth, nor do I think you want to be. I'm nothear of the smart girls who have it spelled out for them "Ifanybody touches my

trying to make a romance out of the monotony of laundry days, because I don't think you'd listen patient­in diamonds in the gambling casipos of Nice? 
~;.~~s Ahoy, I'll tear their arms 
Robert Wack
My life, and your brother's life, arc simple. We arc ly. Still, I have to believe in the truth ofwhat you arcpriests, and priests deal in mysteries. Does God exist? Is "Did we get anything in thedoing, and what my parents did, and which parentsHe aware ofwhat is happening, and docs He really care? 

mousetraps today?"

everywhere always do, before I can believe in the truthWhose side is He on, and how can you tell? Whc is He Nutrition, that mysterious HUmorof my own life as a minister of mysteries. Someday, weopposed to sex? Mysteries deal with faith, and faith is realm ofscience seldommust discuss the matter over wine, as though we werethe t.•vidcnce ofthings unseen; all the evidence ofGod's ventured into by other than mothers, girlfriends, and pre-meds, tsguests enjoying the refreshments at a marriage feast in mystery isn't in yet, so no one can tell us priests ifwe're unheard ofO-C. Some ofthe savory meals I have had the privilege ofCana.
right or wrong. 

gagging down: five slices oftoast (with grape jelly) and a tall, coolWine, next to bread, must be the happiest ofnature'sIdon't know what your life is, Mary Beth. There must glass ofwater; peanut butter a-la-finger (serving suggestion: washgifts. It docs not surprise me to hear that it is helpful in a be a momem at day's end, when the last teenager is off hands); 54 Kroger saltines and a warm beer from a three-day-old keg.
marriage as it is necessary in a sacrament. It is an ele­the street and home in bed, when you think: "We've Ofcourse, all ofour dinner time fare is not always this exotic. Once,
ment common to the experiences when the Lord
survived for another day." You drink your wine, and my housemate and Iattempted to make manicotti, all the way downblesses us with peace.

think how tired you arc, and perhaps you dream of to stuffing the pasta and everything. Somewhere along the line some­

God bless you, Mary Beth. Thank you for writing. thing went wrong and what we ended up serving looked like the 
finale ofa low grade horror movie. Out ofsheer pride we ate it, sim le kasures. Then before slcc overtakes ou ou 
Patrick Mulligan 
leaving the leftovers to sit in our refrigerator, until finally it was pitched out the back door for the final, lowest insult: The neighbor­hood mongrels turned their noses up at it. 
~confessions' lacks inspiration 
Weekends offcampus are real interesting. Just because we do not have rectors breathing down our necks, does not mean we have free 
W
hat can I but enumerate old camera produces shots which seem character he played inRocky -only 
rein to do anything we please. Ifyou look in DuLac, you will sec that themes?" queries the speaker to contradict the spoken words of this time wearing a Roman collar. 
all the rules about parietals and such extend to offcampus housing
ofYcats' The Circus AnImal's Deser­the characters. Close-ups of Tom Spellacy resolves to convict 
also. Let me speak for all offcampus students when I say we follow tion. Dirctor Ulu Grosbard seems to Detective Tom Spellacy almost in­Jack Amsterdam on a murder rap on­those rules religiously. We are continually asking females who want be posing the same question with his variably consist ofa face half in light, ly after his ex-girlfriend (who is also to stay over and watch the iatc movie on HBO to please leave. It is latest lilm, True Confessions. Gros­halfin shade, implying an analagous the proprieter ofa house ofill­tough to do, but, hey, it's the rules. We also never drink from kegs.
bard (whose previous efforts in­personal morality. Fine. But why is repute) commits suicide. Desmond Never. No siree, no way.
clude The Subject Was Roses and Spellacy's shady business dealings 
You meet a lot of interesting people offcampus. Every morning is Straight Time) directs in a style that Movie Review with Amsterdam are brought to light an adventure when I go downstairs to see who could not make it is eclectic yet unoriginal. While this Monsignor Desmond Spellacy as a result ofTom's investigation. 
home from the bars the night before. On football weekends, our motion picture docs present some shown in close-up with a halo of Are we to accept that Desmond's house suffers from severe infestations of parasitic organisms called solid acting, effective camera work, light bathing his head? This scene, ruin is wrought by a madam who has "alumni" and "former houscmates." Both keep returning, even after and adequate editing, the composi­which occurs in a confessional near had nothing to do with the brothers' such drastic measures as graduation and requests for rent contribu­tion as a whole simply docs not the end of the movie, suggests that relationship throughout the film? 
tions. 

t·qual the sum ofthe parts. Acording­Desmond is a martyr figure. The in­Again, had Grosbard payed more Not breaking parietals and not drinking from kegs is not all us off ly True Confessions may be best congruity between the director's attention to the relationship be­campus students do. We study and go to classes too. Honest. One of described as a cinematic exercise in camera and the screenplay proves a tween the brothers he might have my housemates is a genius business major with a 3.4, and he does not competence. serious detriment to the form ofthe created an innovative film. The even try. I think studying offcampus is easier because there arc more Perhaps what is most frustrating film. montage shots ofDesmond at a wed­and stronger incentives for finishing quickly and spending the rest of about this t11m is its unfulfilled Had Mr. Grosbard allowed his ding reception while Tom inves­the evening rccreationally. The only problems most kids have arc potential, particularly from a techni­camera to remain neutral he might tigates a death in a brothel are well finding out when their tests arc and when their papers arc due. 
cal standpoint. Grosbard knows how have produced a more subtle and executed. The physical harriers Yes, 0-C livingis quite an experience, one that I recommend to to employ the tools of the cinema; successful movie. Instead the direc­which separate the brothers in most 
everyone. Even if it is only for a weekend, try it. You will be the bet­unforrunately he is unable to syn­tor utilizes over-the-shoulder shots, every scene demonstrate the direc­
ter for it. 

thesize this knowledge consistently. rack focuses, and scene montage in tor's understanding of the subject . P.S. For anyone who is getting worked up to write an indignant,For example, consider Groshard's an erratic fashion. While Groshard's matter. There are several poignant 
nghteous lcttt.·r to the editor, this was all a joke. I was just kidding.exposition of the tilm's central technical skills arc impressive, they moments in the film (especially the 
Really.charatcrs, Tom and Desmond Spel­contribute little to the coherence of very first scene) when the brothers' lacy (Robert Duvall and Robert the composition. This failure may he expressions transcend the feeble 
,...................................................~
DcNiro ). Duvall and DcNiro pcr­traced to the director's trying to do dialogue. But such moments are few timn admirably in the story of two too much with insufficient material. .and far between. brothers, one a policeman and the Tht.• screenplay penned by Jvhn Flawed as it is, True Confessions is 
I Next Week . . . ~ 
other a pri est, who become mired in Gregory Dunne and joan Didion still better than most ofthe commer­
~ The Features pages are taking on a new look Monday. In addition ! an investigation ofcorruption and · contains a number of banal subplots cial pulp being churned out of Hol­
~ to the regular featured columnists, a new format will highlight an ~ murdt·r around Los Angeles, late which interfere with rather than em­lywood these days. While Grosbard 
~ expanded effort to cover campus happenings. ~ 
1940s. The muddkd dialogue bt·­bellish the central theme of the film. may not be a film master, he is com­twccn the two conveys the t1lm's Burgess Meredith, playing an elderly petent with the tools ofthe cinema. central theme of moral aml'>ivalcncc priest unwillingly pushed into With True Confessions he produes ~ Watch for it!~ 
in American society. But Grosbard's retirement, looks like the same an interesting failure. .................................................~ 
-------__, 

Friday, October 30, 1981 -page 1 0 
The Observer 
-~­

HEAVY 
ETAL 
ADBANGERS 
LISTEN TO THEM. IT'LL BE HARD TO HEAR ANYTHINC ELSE!II 




~~~ 
Z~bop! 
including: Winning/E Papa Re/1 Love You Much Too Much Over And Over/Changes 
COLUMBIA 
JOURNEY 
ESCRPE 
including: Who's Crying Now/Stone In Love Don't Stop Believin'/Dead Or Alive Keep On Runnin' 

MEAT LOAF DEAD RINGER 
including: Peel Out/l'm Gonna Love Her For Both Of Us I'll Kill You If You Don't Come Back Read 'Em And Weep/Everything Is Permitted 
OIIYOSBOURNE 
BLIZZARD OF OZZ 
including: I Don't Know/CrazyTrain/Mr. Crowley Suicide Solution/Goodbye To Romance 
Albums 
& Tapes 

Pictured Items Only. 
RE~. JUDAS PRIEST HIINFIDELITV POIN~~c~!;n~:NTRY 
including: Heading Out To The Highway ITroubleshooter Follow My Heart/KeepOn Loving You On The Run/Don't Go/Hot Rock in' Don't Let Him Go/In Your Letter Take It On The Run 
~----------~ 
BWE OYSTER CULT 
FIRE OF UNKNOWN ORIGIN 
including: Burnin' For You Heavy Metal: The Black And Silver Sole Survivor/Joan Crawford Veteran Of The Psychic Wars 


e Irish Extra 
an Observer sports supple:ment 


Friday, October 30, 1981 -page 11 
Irish hope Middies are. the answer 
Notre Dame st!uggling to regain winning ways 
By SKIP DESJARDIN 
Assistant Sports Editor 
lhtrd times may have: befallen the: Notre 
Damt· foothall team, currently in the midst of 
its worst start in I H years, bm Navy football 
coat·h (ic:or~o~c: Welsh says the Irish look as 
~o~ood as t·ver to him. 
At his weekly press conference in Annapolis 
this wn·k, Welsh said the only differt·nce be­
tween this year's Notre Dame team, and its 2-4 
record, and the: winning teams of the recent 
past is the outcome of the: close games. 
"They are the same Notre Dame team. They 
play the same way," Welsh said. "The dif­
ference is that in past years they've W()n the 
dose ones. This year they've lost the close 
ont·s." 
As Gerry Faust pointed in out in a press con­
ference of his own this week, Notre Dame is 
just 14 points away from a 5-l record, with a 
one-point loss to Purdue, a six-point dif­
ference against Florida State and aseven-point 
loss to Southern Cal last week. 
Navy meanwhile Is riding a three-game win­
ning streak and boasting a 5-2 season record. 
Welsh was asked at his press conference ifthls 
wa~ the year to beat Notre Dame. 

Navy Coach George Wetsl.1 sees a tough game aheadfor the Mitlfltes. 
.. Maybe: for some teams," he replied, "but 
not nect·ssarily for us. 
"This is the biggest team we'll face this year. That offt·nslve line Is huge:. They are physically strongt·r than Michigan." The week after Notre Dame was trounced by Michigan, the Wolverines were only able to pull out a nar­row 21-16 victory over the Middies. 
"That line Is so big, we may be hard pressed to get off the blocks and tackle their backs," Welsh said. 
"We haven't been able to do that against Notre Dame for a long time. They've shoved the: ball down our throats." 
Welsh, who was mentioned prominently 
among those in the running for the Notre 
Dame coaching job when Dan Devine 
resigned, said he thinks the Irish showed con­
siderahlc: improvement In the loss to Southern 
Calla~t week after Faust simplified his offense. 
"If looks a'i if they've gone back to some 
haslcs on offense, and they are doing a much 
bettt•r job of moving the ball." 
Navy has scored a total ofonly seven points 
against Notre Dame the last three years. Welsh said if the Middies are to win this year, they must get more yardage out of the passing game. He also looks for them to get more rus­hing yardage: out of the quarterhack or ful­lhack. taking pressure off the halfhacks. 
"I think Notre Dame's defense has played well for them for the most part. We have our work cut out for us again this week." 
Faust sees the going just as tough for the Irish. 
"Navy is a quick, solid ballclub," he says. "They've given everybody they've played problems. They are very aggressive and en­thusiastic. They play with a lot ofemotion and heart. 
''I'm really impressed with their defense. They get to the football. Their team pursuit is unbelieveable." 
Faust has seen one of Navy's top offensive weapons first hand. Kicker Steve Fehr is a product ofCincinnati's Princeton High School. He also happens to be the top field goal kicker in the country. 
"He is the best, there's no doubt about it," says Faust. "Because ofFehr, Navy is a threat to score from just Inside midfield." 
Welsh agrees, claiming there is no better kicker in the country. "He's extremely consis­tent. Actually, his record speaks for Itself." 
See OUTLOOK, page 13 

Irish-Middies clashes memorable 

Blair Kiel will lead the Irish offense again this week. Coach Gerry Faust says Kiel's run-

By LOUIE SOMOGYI 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame vs. Purdue -"The backyard 
battle for the Shillelagh." 
Notre Dame vs. Southern California -"The 
greatest rivalry in college football." 
Notre Dame vs. Navy -"Yawn." 
Notre Dame fans tend to smirk when the 
Notre Dame-Navy game is mentioned as a 
great rivalry. For "rivalry" is defined as aneven 
antagonism between two competitors. 
Since the Irish have won by an average mar­gin of 27 points in the last 17 consecutive years over the Middies, tht• battle between the two schools has seemed to be about as com­petitive as a snowball's chances ofsurviving in hell. Ahout the only competition fans have been able to appreciate is seeing which unit of the Irish (first or second string) can put more points on the scoreboard. 
The I 7 straight victories that Notre Dame owns over Navy since 1964 is the most vic­tories in a row ever held by a Notre Dame football team over an opponent. 
The law ofaverages might be something to think about tomorrow, however, when the two teams tee it up for the 55th consecutive year -the longest intercollegiate rivalry in college football. And although Notre Dame's 44-9-1 record over the Midshipmen reflects a one-sided domination, the games between the two schools have evoked some memories in football lore for both schools. 
The year 1928 was not exactly one to be 
treasured by either teams as the Naval 
Academy stumbled through a 5-3-l campaign 
after having gone undefeated two seaons 
before, while Notre Dame Coach Knute 
Rockne was in the throes ofa 5-4 season under 
his "Minuteman Squad." 
"We'd be in the game one m.inute, and get blown out the next," as he used to say (See. Even the legend basked In the agony of defeat). 

On one October day at Soldier Field an un­official crowd of 120,000 (a college football record) packed the place to witness a 7-0 Notre Dame triumph in only the second game ever between the two schools. The actual paid attendance was l 0 3,081, hut in any case the foundation had been laid for a continuing series. 
Only two years later, Notre Dame again 
faced Navy and a large crowd. On October II, 
1930, Notre Dame Stadium was dedicated 
before a crowd of 40,593, who saw a 26-2 
defeat of Navy on that special day. 
"We played in the stadium with a great deal 
ofpride that day." said one ofthe stars of the game, Nordy Hoffman. "The stadium was Rock's. He had such a big impact on Its design and construction. It's really a tribute to him; that's why the stadium Is so great." 
Led by their "Football Hall of Fame" halfhack Fred (Buzz) Dorries, the Middies enjoyed two straight victories over the Irish at Baltimore and Cleveland in 1933 and 1934. Navy would win again against Elmer Layden's third Notre Dame team in 1936 as they began to get Notre Dame's numher. 
In the next 19 years, however, the Irish would win I 7 of the games with the only 
See CLASHES, page 12 


Hetsman trophy winners joe Bellino and Roger Staubach led Navy to wins over Notre 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
r--------~-------~---­
The Irish Extra-Navy Friday, October 30, 1981-page 12 
Key matchup: Meyers, Crable face off tomorrow 

years ago. He /.)as since become one of the Middies' all-time rushing leaders. 
T"\\0 head Coaches comment on making the change 
desire to beat Notre Dame than Pittsburgh.
By DAVE IRWIN 
They face that against whoever they play."
Sports Writer 

Ask Michigan, who was looking ahead to the Notre Dame game and got beat by Wisconsin,Gerry Faust knows what it is like to fall from or Purdue, wholost to Minnesota. Both were
the top of the world. 
conference games.
He came to Notre Dame with more fanfare The biggest reason, however, for Notrethan any coach in America has ever ex­
Dame's unpredicted start is the transitionperienced. Fans and media personalities period that must be gone through. And yes, turned him into a re-born Knute Rockne 
Dan Devine was 8-3 in his first season but itbefore he ever won a game at Notre Dame. 
took two greatjoe Montana comebacks or theIt was understandable with his outgoing Irish would have been 6-5. While Ara Parseg­personality and warmth. But now those Irish hian, a true Irish living legend, instantly wonfaithful have become the Irish doubters. And the hearts of Irish fans by taking over a 2-7
Keith Drum, of North Carolina'sDurham Hugh Devore team and turning it into a 9-1 
Morning Herald, has even suggested that 
squad that came within 1:33 ofthe nationalFaust's fellow coaches are inwardly smiling at championship, Faust inherited only 16 start­his difficult start after the hype he received. 
ers and 38letter-winners overall from a squad
But Faust's counterparts have not written that was 9-2-1.
him off, although one can not really expect Besides the new offense, he made minormen in the same profession to be very critical 
changes in the defense and introd~ced new
ofeach other. It just isn't the polite thing to techniques and responsiblities to the players.
do. 
The coaching staff has four new assistant"I personally have great confidence in Ger­coaches out ofeightand only two ofthe retur­ry Faust as a man and as a coach," says nees are responsible for the men theyLouisiana State head coach jerry Stovall. "In coached the previous year. It is going to takemy humble opinion Gerry Faust will do a time for things to mesh, ifthey don't mesh in
tremendous job and is doing a tremendous -the next two or three years then the boo-birdsjob. Don't just judge him on the won-lost may have something to complain about.
record." 
"Gerry Faust is going through a normal"Things aren't going very well for him right transition period with older players," says now, but he'll turn it around," says Southern Bowden. "The guy has too much quality goingCal head coach jerry Robinson. "There was for him and the school has too much quality
something about the look in his eye after the not to turn things around. I know it will work
game that impressed the hell out of me." 
out. He is recruiting his players and doing it
Florida State's Bobby Bowden agrees. "I've his way." 
ne~er seen a school make a perfect change. Its "It's not his fault and it's not Notre Dame's,"
gomg to take a while." continues Bowden. "I'm sure he'll overcome
There lies the key. It is going to take time. 
it. I don't know what the situation was with
Make no doubt about it, something is wrong Ara, but young players will adjust sooner to a
when a Notre Dame football team is 2-4, racks up 312 yards in total offense against a defense See COACHES, page 13 like SoUlhern Cal's and comes up with just 


seven points and twice has first-and-goal only 
to come away with naught. 
But there arc many reasons for it, and not all the fault is Faust's. After all, there is not much separating the Irish from being 5-I. The second halfagainst Michigan is the only time span the Irish didn't belong on the same field with their opponent. 
"We are only 14 points away from 5-l," says Faust. "That's really something with the schedule we play." 
Faust isn't joking about the schedule. Notre Dame has lost to some pretty fair football teams in Florida State (5-2), Southern Cal ( 6­1 ), Purdue (5-2) and Michigan (5-2). All but Purdue are ranked and ifthe Boilermakerscan win their last four games they too will be ranked and Rose Bowl bound. 
Besides being good football teams, the mere fact ofplaying Notre Dame seems to bring out the best in opponents, regardless of the rhetoric they may give you about the im­portance ofwin.ning their conference games. 
"Everybody wants to heat Notre Dame" says Bowden, whose Seminoles are inde~en­dents along with the Irish. "I had a bigger 
continuedfrom page 11 
blemishes coming in 1944 and 1945 with by scores of 32-13 and 6-6. Another "Hall of Fame" halfback with a catchy nickname led Navy to prominence in those war years when 
Notre Dame had difficulties with military 
teams. Army may have had "Mr. Outside" and 
"Mr. Inside" but Navy had Clyde (Smackover) 
Scott. 
Again, after winning I 0 straight games against Navy, the law ofaverages caught up with the Irish. The Middies made their own contributions in creating the "Dark Ages" for Notre Dame football. Between the years 1956-1963, Navy wop five of eight contests. 
Ofcourse, having players named Joe Bel­lino and Roger Staubach didn't hurt Navy's chances any during that same era. 
While Notre Dame had a comined record of 
5-14 during the years 1960 and 1963, Navy 

By SKIP DESJARDIN 
Assistant Sports Editor 
On November 3, 1979, Eddie Meyers made 
a name for himself. 
"Is that the guy's name?" asked Notre Dame 
linebacker Bob Crable after the game. "We 
hadn't prepared for him. We got ready for a 
team, not players." · 
Injuries had plagued the Middies that 
season, and they were down to their fourth­
string tailback by the time they rolled into 
South Bend. 

"Ifthat was their fourth-string guy, I sure 
don't want to see their top three," said Crable. 
"He is an excellent back.' 
Since that day, Eddie Meyers has been a 
familiar figure in the Navy backfield. He ran 
for 101 yards on 17 carries, and has been run­
ning ever since. Ifhe keeps up the pace, he 
may run right into the Navy record books. 
One thing is certain, however. He'll run into Bob Crable this weekend. 
"What a great running back," says Navy Coach George Welsh when asked about Meyers ability. "He has the strength, power, speed and is durable. I call him a great 'six­yard runner' because he bounces offpeople to get that extra yard." 
Crable, too, likes to bounce offpeople. He is creeping ever-closer to Bob Golie's records for most tackles in a career, is a sure-fire All­American and hates running backs. This weekend, he'll have a chance to beat up on one ofthe best. 

Eddie Meyers 
• • • Clashes 

prdouced perfect 9-0 seasons during the 
regular season before losses in the Orange and 
Cotton Bowls prevented National Champion­
ships. 

In those same years Bellino and Staubach 
won the Heisman Trophy. The 1960 team 
with Bellino managed to squeeze by with a 14­
7 win in Philadelphia (where the Irish would 
continue to play on every other year against 
Navy till 1976), while the 1963 team behind 
Staubach was a more convincing 35-14 victor 
in Notre Dame Stadium as it marked the last 
time th~~ a Navy team defeated the Irish. 
Since~hen, the closest Navy has come to lighting the victory cigar came in 1974 and 1976. 
In 1974, behind a gutsy defense led by con­sensus all-America Chet Moeller, and the "coffin-corner" punting ofjohn Stufflebeem, Navy jumped out to a 6-0 lead. Two touch­downs in the final six minutes of the game. 
Meyers was an honorable mention All­America selection by the Associated Press last season. This year, he has been plagued by in­juries that kept him out ofone complete game, and most oftwo others. Despite that fact, he is averaging 1 1 1 yards per game, having rushed for 666 yards so far. 
"I thank the Lord that they weren't serious injuries," Meyers says now. "He kept me injury-free in the past three seasons as well. I've been very lucky." 
He's also been very busy. He's carrying the ball more than ever before. 
"I set goals, and with the help of the Lord, I am able to achieve them., 
"I feel good about that." Meyers says. "I am confident that I'm able to do the job. I love running the ball, and ies working out fine. 
Meyers makes it clear that he's not entirely pleased with his performance, however. There are some improvements he'd like to make. 
"I'd like to develop a greater ability to break a tackle and run more than 30 yards. Maybe make a few SO or 60 yard runs." 
Ifthat begins to happen with any regularity, Meyers may begin to throw a real scare in to Crable and his fellow linebackers. He's already gone 70 yards from scrimmage once this year. 
What's more, Irish coaches have been worried about the team's inability to stop those big plays. Each week, the long run or pass has proven to be their downfall. So it will be up to the linebackers, and Crable in par­ticular, to stop Meyers before he can get a full head ofsteam. Once he gets that momentum, he's hard to stop, and becomes almost like a fullback as he rumbles through holes in the of­fensive line. 
Crable knows what it's like to have to bring Meyers down. He got a taste ofit two years ago when Meyers burst on the scene. 
"He runs hard," Crable said after that 1979 game. "It took two or three guys to bring him down on every play." 
Like Crable, Meyers was chosen by his teammates as a co-captain. Welsh has pointed out on many occasions that Meyers has a great knack for leadership. That is high praise when one considers the fact that Meyers is leading a group ofhighly trained and disciplined Navy midshipmen. 
"The offense revolves around him," says ful­lback Tim Jackson. "Underour type ofoffense, the fullback is the blocker, and it's up to Eddie to get the yards. We all have a great deal of confidence in him. It's impossible not to." 
Part ofinspiring confidence is having con­fidence in oneself. 
"I set goals, and wlth the help ofthe Lord, I am able to achieve them," Meyers says. "I put my trust in Him and what happens happens." 
This weekend, All-America linebacker Bob Crable will' have to stop All-America running back Eddie Meyers. Ifhe does, the Irish will win. Ifhe doesn't, the Middies will walk away victorious. 
When two ofthe nation's best go head to head, whatever happens happens. 
however, helped Ara Parseghian's final squad 
to a 14-6 win. 
In 1976, Notre Dame had to battle back from an early 14-3 defecit to rally for a hard­fought 27-21 win as Luther Bradley inter­~epted a Navy pass on the last play ofthe game tn the Notre Dame endzone. 
The 1976 game also marked the first presentation ofthe "Waterford Glass Bowl" to the winner ofthe annual contest The award is meant as a tribute to Don Miller (one ofthe immortal "Four Horseman") of Notre Dame, and "Rip" Miller (a member of the legendary "Seven Mules") of Navy. 
While the only time the "Waterford Glass Bowl" has been away from the Notre Dame trophy case over the last five years has been when it needed dusting, the Irish must be ever so wary again this weekend. The law of averages is on the Middies' side. 


The Irish Extra-Navy Friday, October 30, 1981 -page 13 


Rudzinski's back in a big way 
By MARK HANNUKSELA 
Sports Writer 
Don't blame joe Rudzinski for Notre 
Dame's four losses. 
Ikck, the poor guy didn't even play in three 
of them. 
Injured midway through the disaster in Ann Arbor, Rudzinski did not return to action until last Saturday's game against Southern Cal. In the interim, he missed the one-point loss to Purdue, Win No.2 against Michigan State, and the loss to Bobby Bowden's Florida State Seminoles. 
Despite the three-week layofffor the strained tl·ndons in Rudzinski's right shoul­der, he came hack as strong as ever against USC, making 10 tacklt:s against the Trojans, second only to Boh Crahlt:'s I 5. 
According to his coach, George Kelly, you'd ncVl'r know he missed a day. 
"Joe played what I felt was perhaps the best game of his carl't:r against Southern Cal," says Kelly. "Be played with a great deal ofinten­sity, which he always does, and just had an outstanding ball game." 
For Rudzinski, the contest was an outlet for the pent up frustration that had built during his three weeks on the sidelines. 
"I wanted to get in there so bad," he says. "It just gets to you, sitting there watching the team lose. You start thinking that ifyou can get In there, maybe you can help out in some 


continuedfrom page I2 
new coach than older ones." 
The 95--~0 scholarship rule also has done its part to rearrange the football powers. Geor­gia, Florida State, Iowa, North Carolana and Mississippi State have just emerged in rcct:nt years. The BigTen this year is not the BigTwo­Little Eight any more, as seven teams arc with­in a half-game ofthe conference lead heading down the stretch. 
"You just don't have the same talent in the saml· dl·pth," explains Stovall. "The talent level is planed out. Two players get hurt and you takl· a nose dive." 
That is evident in the Irish in recent weeks as seven starters did not play or saw limited action against Florida State. Six of those start­ers returned for the USC game and despite the loss most observers, including Faust, feel it was Notre Dame's best effort ofthe season. 
And one thing that is totally misunderstood hy the outside world is the football mentality under the Golden Dome. Fr. Hesburgh and Fr. Joyce couldn't really care if Notre care how many football gamest the Irish win. in fact, Bes­hurgh has made no secret that he wishes Notre Dame academics would get as much at­tention as the football team. 
Contrary to popular belief there arc some schools where athletes do graduate. Notre 
way. But on the sidelines, you just feel help­less." Helpless? To some extent, yes. But not total­ly. 
"When one of my kids isn't able to contribute physically," says Kelly, "you will usually find him talking to his replacement. I've been lucky in that respect. l have guys who arc not selfish, who try to help one anoth­er. That's whatJoe did with Rick Naylor." 
All feelings of helplessness aside, there was another, and perhaps more important feeling running through the 6-3, 210-pound Rud­zinski, a feeling which many ofhis teammates shared. 
"I think some ofthe criticism directed at Coach Faust was definitely unjustified," says the Farmington, Mich., native."Be stepped in­to something that he had never been exposed to -heck, college football is a big business. l don't think people appreciate what actually goes on, the pressure he is under. 
"The team knows it lost some games it shouldn't have," he-continues. "We just hate to sec all the criticism come down on him like it has. I think once he gets his bearings, he'll produce a winner. It's just too bad people have to make such quick judgements about him." 
All those quick judgements, and all the second guessing are likely to stop once Faust and his Irish start regularly comingaway from games with higher numbers on the 

Dame football players realize there is more than pro football. All 31 former Irishfootball players listed on active rosters ofthe National Football League teams during the 1980 season have earned their degree from the University. Others schools may win on Saturday after­noon, but in the long-run the Irish arc the real winnners. 
As for the NCAA's investigation ofa possible recruiting violation by Faust, it is going to lead nowhere. There will not be the recruiting violations at Notre Dame as there have been at other schools, there will not be any incidents similiar to the one at Arizonia State involving Frank Kush, and there will not be the Woody Hayes types that punch out photographers. The Notre Dame head coach will and has to do more than win football games. 
Remember the words of Bowden who says, "Tell Gerry to be patient and tell the people up there to be patient." 
But as Stovell says, "Time is not on the side ofthe coach." Sad, but true. The administra­tion, however, will stand by Faust as long as he, his players and his staff represent Notre Dame in a positve light both on and off the football field. 
The key is patience. In a couple ofyears, Faust's name will belong up there with Rockne, Frank Leahy, Parseghian and Devine. This time the praise he receives will be deserved. 

The ronning abili~v ofNavy quarterback to the Middies' offensive attack. (AP Photo) !11arco PaJ!.nanelli adds another dimension 

scoreboard than the other team. IfSaturday's performance against USC is any indication, that should begin to happen rather soon. This weekend, as a matter offact. As is the case nearly every week of the Notre Dame season, 
however, there's a but... 
"Navy is so disciplined," says Rudzinski, a resident of Morrissey Hall. "They don't make mistakes. We're coming off ofa very emotion­al game. Teams have a tendency to flatten out after games like that, so it will be very impor­tant for us to keep our intensity level up. They arc the kind ofteam that will take advantage of our mistakes, so we have to keep from making them." 
Rudzinski himselfshould have little trouble 
maintaining his intensity level, since the game 
against the Midshipmen will be only his fourth 
appearance of the season. But then even ifhe 
had been the starter in every game, as he was a 
year ago under Dan Devine, Rudzinski would 
have little trouble maintaining his intensity. 
"Joe has never been a tentative person" says Kelly, coach of Notre Dame's linebackers for the past 13 years. "He's a pretty nasty kid when it comes to contact -that's just his nature." 
"I agree with Coach Kelly when he says I'm a very intense player," says Rudzinski, whose brother Paul, after captaining the Spartans of Michigan State, played two years in the NFL with the Green Bay Packers. "I think everybody is to a certain extent. Iseem to play 


Bob Crable was surprised at the ability of Navy ronning back Eddie Meyers after their first meeting two years ago. Now Crable and Meyers will go head-to-head again. 
• • • Outlook 
continuedfrom page II 
The record is impressive indeed: 15-16 ex­
tra points, and I 5-19 field goals. 
"I've always believed that the main 
rcsponsibiltiy for me as a placekicker was to 
help the team as much as possible," says the 
pre-season All-American. "The pre-season 
honors, along with the fact that this will be my 
final season made me work a little harder over 
the summer." 

The hard work has paid off. Fchr now owns I 0 Navy records, and his career scoring mark of I 7 3 points puts him within reach of Bcis­man Trophy winnerJoe Bellino's Navy record of 198. 
"This will be just like going against Moel­ler," Fehr says of his reunion with Faust, and long-time nemisis Harry Oliver. 
But it's the defense that has Faust worried the most. His team has been unable to generate a lot ofscoring, and now they face another tough defensive unit. 
"It's a great defense," he says. "They pushed ' Michigan to the limit earlier this season. Navy always plays hard against Notre Dame. This week will be no exception. I'm sure they'll be keyed up." 
,­

joe Rudzinski is back and ready to go. See Mark Hannuksela's profile at left. 
my best when I'm fired up." 
Accused oflying dormant for a good part of the early season, the Intensity of the Notre Dame defense is back, not just in the person of Rudzinski, but in all 11 members ofJim 
Johnson's unit. If it stays this time, then the 
road which lies ahead for the 1981 Irish 
should be much smoother than the one al­
ready travelled. 

Gerry Faust hopes the Irish can get back on track this weekend when they take on Navy. Faust says be's particularly worried about the Middies' talented defense. 
The Irish Extra-Navy Friday, October 30, 1981 -page 14 
Notre Dame vs. Navy 
The Game The Lineups 
GAME: Fighting Irish vs. Navy Midshipmen NAVY OFFENSE 
NOTRE DAME OFFENSE HT WT CL
SITE: Notre Dame Stadium (capacity 59,075) 
HT WT CL POS NO PLAYER
POS NO PLAYER TIME: 1:30 p.m. EST Saturday, October 31, 1981 QB 5 Blair Klel 6_1 195 So. OB 15 Marco Pagnanelli 6-0 203 So. 6_ 205 Sr. 17 Tom Tarquinio 6-0 173 Jr.
TV-RADIO: Metrosports Replay Network 14 Tim Koegel 4 5_ 200 Jr. TB 40 Eddie Meyers 5-9 202 Sr.
10
Harry Kalas and George Connor TB 22 Phil Carter 28 Greg Bell 6_0 205 So. FB 23 Richard Clouse 5-9 185 Fr. 9 a.m. Sunday-WNDU-TV FB 215 Jr. 49 Tim Jackson 6-0 186 Sr.
33 John Sweeney 6_2 Notre Dame-Mutual Radio Network 39 Larry Moriarty 6 2 220 38 Andy Skehan 6-3 225 Jr. -Jr. SE 88 Chris Yelder 6-0 189 Sr.
Tony Roberts and AI Wester WB 48 John Mosley 6-1 195 So. 33 Chris Weiler 6-1 201 Fr.
24 Joe Howard 5-9 165 Fr. FL

WNDU-AM 1500 
89 Troy Mitchell 5-9 171 Jr.

SE 85 Tony Hunter 6-5 220 Jr.
WNDU-TV Channel16 87 Jay Kennedy 5-9 158 Sr.84 Tim Tripp 6-3 205 Sr. RT
Tom Dennin and Jeff Jeffers RT 71 Phil Pozderac 6-9 270 Sr. 74 Keith Boring 6-3 259 Sr. 76 Robert Moore 6-5 240 Sr.SERIES: Oldest intersectional rivalry in college foot­52 John Putzstuck 
~~-70t 6-3 252 Sr.
RG 74 Mike Shiner ~~~ ~~~ RG Craig Smith
ball 

v 6-4 60 Rick Pagel 6-3 218 So.
75 Larry Kissner 255 Sr. C
TICKETS: Irish lead series 44-1 0-1 51 Dennis McCall 6-4 230 Jr.
c 57 Mark Fischer 6-4 245 Jr. 
Game is sold out 68 Barry Young 6-5 53 Peter Oswald 6-2 223 So.
245 So LG 59 M. Woodhouse 6-2 241 Jr.
1---------------­LG 76 Randy Ellis 6-4 250 Jr. 79 Neil Maune 6-5 255 So. 
63 Jeff Johnson 6-4 234 So. LT 64 Tom Thayer 6-5 265 Jr. L T 71 .Doug Borrebach 6-4 235 So. 70 Marty Roddy 6-6 260 Fr. 68 Dennis Sinnett 6-4 240 Sr. TE 95 Pete Buchanan 230 Jr. TE 6-5
6-3 82 Greg Papajohn 197 Sr. 
90 Ron Mishler 6-4 83 Mark Fitzgerald 6-2 222 Sr.
TheStatistics 

235 Sr. p 24 Steve Fehr 6-1 189 Sr.
5 Blair Kiel 6-1 195 So. P 1 0 Brian Whelan 6-0 45 Wesley Scott 5-11 163 Fr.
185 Sr.
TEAM STATISTICS NO OPP PUNT RET NO YDS AVG TO LG DEFENSE TMTL-YDS PBU FR BK 
PK 3 Harry Oliver 5-11 185 Sr. PK 24 Steve Fehr 6-1 189 Sr. 4 Mike Johnston 5-11 185 Jr. 
18 Frank Andrews 5-11 175 So.TOTAL OFFENSE YARDS 1872 1882 Duerson 18 108 6.0 0 16 Crable 95 9-36 1 1 0 24 Steve Fehr 6-1 189 Sr.
KO 8 Gary Purk 6-0 185 So. KO
Total Plays 419 401 Krimm 5.0 5 2-8 . 2 0 5-11
5 0 Zavagnin 53 0 40 Steve Cichy 6-2 210 Sr. 18 Frank Andrews 175 So.
Yards per Play 4.5 4.7 

Duerson 33 2-5 5 0 0 PR 14 Jeff Shoemake Yards per Game 312.0 313.7 NOTRE DAME 19 113 5.9 0 16 Toran 27 1-6 3 0 0 30 Stacey Toran 28 Brian Clanella 
PR 23 Dave Duerson 

PENAL TIES-YARDS 27-257 29-276 OPPONENTS 23 114 5.0 0 15 27 3-12 4 3 KR 20 GregAIIen
Griffith 0 
KR 28 Greg Bell FUMBLES-LOST 9-2 12-5 

Krimm 26 0-0 2 0 0 49 Tim Jackson
24 Joe Howard Yards Returned 0 0 

Clasby 24 3-1 I 2 0 0
PUNTING G NO YDS AVG LGTOTAL FIRST DOWNS 99 94 

Marshall 23 5-23 0 0 0 
NAVY DEFENSE NOTRE DAME DEFENSE By Rushing 58 58 
20 0-0 0 0 0
Kiel 6 42 1662 39.6 53 Naylor LE 48 T. Wallington 6-2 221 Jr. LE 38 John Autry 6-2 230 So.
By Passing 35 28 

Autry 20 4-33 2 0 0 
91 Hamp Oberle 6-2 214 So. 36 Tony Belden 6-2 230 Sr.
By Penalty 6 8 

92-25 NOTRE DAME 42 1662 39.6 Rudzinski 18 1-3 0 0 0 90 Mike Crum LT Tim Marshall 250 So.
THIRD DOWNS-CONV 85-25 6 53 L T 6-2 235 Sr. n 6-4 
17 0-0 0 0 0
.272 OPPONENTS 6 41 1741 42.5 60 Bone 73 Steve Peters 6-4 224 So. 94 Tom Bock 6-4 255 Sr.
Percentage .294 

Johnson 17 0-0 2 0 0
168:09 RT 67 Paul Soares 6-4 246 Jr. RT 91 Bob Clasby 6-5 260 Jr.
POSSESSION TIME 191:51 

Gramke 16 2-13 1 0 0
28:01 6-4 245 Sr.
92 Joe Gramke 

Minutes per Game 31:59 69 Bill Triplett 219 Fr. 6-4 
Belden 13 3-19 0 0 0
RUSHING G RE 84 Mike Rouser 6-1 211 Sr. RE 56 Kevin Griffith 6-3 240 Sr.
NO YDS AVG TO LG Brown 
9 0-0 1 0 0 

21 Chris Davis 5-10 188 So. 88 Jeff Lueken 6-5 245 Jr.
SCORING GTD PA R-PA S FG TP 

Bock 7 0-0 0 0 0
Bell 6 66 405 6.1 3 41 LLB 65 Andy Ponselgo 6-1 220 So. SLB 51 Joe Rudzinski 6-3 225 Jr. 
Larkin 7 0-0 0 0 0 
6 010-11 4-8 22 Carter 5 78 4.8 62 Carl Wagner 6-0 213 Jr. 37 Rick Naylor 6-3 220 So.
Oliver 0-0 0 375 3 30 Roggeman 5 1-2 0 0 0 
6 3 0-0 0-0 0 0-0 18 Sr:1ith 4 32 114 3.6 MG 56 Tim Jordan 6-0 231 Sr. MLB 43 Bob Crable 6-3 225 Sr.
Bell 1 22 Cichy 4 0-0 1 0 0 
Carter 5 0-0 0-0 0 o-o Sweeney 5 21 90-4.3 52 George Herlong 6-1 241 So. 49 Jack Sh~<•lds 6-2 220 Jr.
3 18 0 12 Liebenstein 3 0-0 0 0 0 
Condeni 3 1 0-0 0-0 E.rooks 4 16 74 4.6 0 22 RLB 50 Ken Olson 6-2 230 Sr. WLB 46 Mark Zavagnln 6-2 225 Jr.
0-0 0 6 

Adell 2 0-0 0 0 0 
Masztak 6 1 0-0 0-0 6 Hunter 27 68 2.5 1 13 57 Todd Hastings 6-3 215 So. 42 Mike Larkin 6-1 210 Fr.
0-0 0 6 

Moriarty 2 0-0 0 0 0 
Moriarty 6 1 0-0 0-0 0 0·0 6 Moriarty 6 14 56 4.0 LH 19 Raymond Daly 5-11 193 So. WCB 30 Stacey Toran 6-4 195 So.
0 18 Spielmaker 2 0-0 0 0 0 
Smith 4 0-0 0-0 6 Mosley 13 51 3.9 45 Wesley Scott 5-11 163 Fr. 41 Mike Masini 6-2 200 Sr.
1 0-0 0 4 11

0 Gann 1 0-0 0 0 0 
Hunter 6 1 0-0 0-0 6 Adell 4 6 17 2.8 0 RH 47 Elliott Reagans 5-10 182 Sr. SCB 19 John Krlmm 6-2 190 Sr.
0-0 0 a Carter 1 0-0 0 0 0 
Williamson 1 1 6 6.0 0 35 Kurt Dixon 5-11 182 So. 9 Chris Brown 6-1 185 So. 
E Mosley I 0·0 0 0 0 
14 Jeff Shoemake 190 Jr. SS 23 Dave Duerson 6-3 200 6-3
NO 611 10-11 0-0 0 4-8 88 K1el 6 13 4 0.3 0 11 Shields 1 0-0 0 0 0 S 6-1 OPP 612 6-7 1-5 0 3-7 89 Howard 5 I -3 -3.0 0 c 41 John Foley 5-9 176 Sr. 40 Steve Cichy 6-2 210 Sr. 
Schiro 1 0-0 0 0 0 
Koegel 6 14 -66 -4.7 0 7 ROB 28 Brian Clanella 5-11 186 Jr. FS 26 Rod Bone 6-2 200 Jr. 
Masini 1 0-0 0 0 0 
20 Russell Smith 6-0 185 Sr. 27 Joe Johnson 6-2 190 Fr. 
Rice 1 0-0 0 0 0
PASSING G NO CO PCT INT YDS TD NOTRE DAME 6 302 1191 3.9 8 41 Howard 
0 0-0 0 I 0 
OPPONENTS 6 272 1 I 10 !1.1 6 33 ------------­Koegel 6 67 36 .537 3 497 2 

NOTRE DAME 477 36-171 26 5 0
Kiel 6 44 19 .432 5 183 I 477 23-112 14 2 0G NO YDS AVG TO LG OPPONENTS

Condeni 3 1 I 1.000 0 4 0 RECEIVING 

TheSchalule
Hunter 6 1 0 .000 1 0 0 
Grooms 1 3 0 .000 0 0 0 Hunter 6 15 204 13.6 0 33 
Navy (5-2) 

Mosley 4 1 I 1.000 0 -3 0 Masztak 6 13 163 12.5 1 33 Sweeney 5 4 74 18.5 0 38 NotreDame(2-4) Sept.12beatTHECITADEL,17-7 
Notre Dame 6 I 17 57 .487 9 681 3 Gondeni 3 4 49 12.2 1 21 Sept. 12 beat LSU, 27-9 Sept. 19 beat E. KENTUCKY 24-0 
INTRET NO YDS AVG TO LG
Opponents 6 129 54 .419 7 772 6 Bell 6 4 49 12.2 0 13 Sept. 191ost to Michigan, 25-7 Sept. 26 lost to Michigan, 21-16 
Carter 5 4 29 7.2 0 14 

2 27 13.5 0 27 Sept. 26 lost to Purdue, 15-14 Oct. 3 lost to Yale, 23-19
Boushka 5 3 52 17.3 0 25 Zavagnin KICKOFF RET NO YDS AVG TO LG Mosley 4 2 18 9.0 0 9 Krimm 1 11 11.0 0 11 Oct. 3 beat MICHIGAN ST., 20-7 Oct. 10 beat AIR FORCE, 30-13 2 . 3 1.5 0 3
Brooks 4 2 17 8.5 0 11 Toran Oct. 10 lost to FLORIDA ST., 19-13 Oct. 17 beat Boston College, 25-10 
5 132 26.4 0 56 Johnson I 0 0.0 0 0
Howard Adell 4 2 12 6.0 0 10 Oct. 24 lost to USC, 14-7 Oct. 24 beat WILLIAM & MARY, 27­
Bell 6 122 20.3 0 26 Moriarty 6 2 10 5.0 1 7 Brown I 0 0.0 0 0 
0ct.31NAVY 0
Duerson 2 53 26.5 0 36 Howard 1 7 7.0 0 7 
Krimm Kiel 6 -3 :3.0 0 0

2 4 2.0 0 3 NOTRE DAME 7 41 5.9 0 27 Nov. 7 GEORGIA TECH Oct. 31 at Notre Dame OPPONENTS 9 54 6.0 0 29 
Nov. 14 at Air Force Nov. 7 SYRACUSE NOTRE DAME 15 311 20.7 0 56 NOTREDAME 6 57 681 11.9 3 38 
Nov. 21 at Penn State Nov. 14 at Georgia Tech 
OPPONENTS 18 341 18.9 0 27 OPPONENTS 6 54 772 14.3 6 71 

Nov. 28 at Miami (Fla.) Dec. 5 vs. Army at Philadelphia 
ThePicks 
Each week, The Observer sports staff MIKE OLENIK 


CHRIS NEEDLES SKIP DESJARDIN 

KELLY SULLIVAN GARY GRASSEY BILL MARQUARD MICHAEL ORTMAN MARK HANNUKSELA 
matches wits with Jimmy the Greek's Sports Writer Sports Writer Asst. Sports Editor 

Sports Writer Sports Writer Sports Writer Sports Editor Sports Writer 51-38-2.573
published line. Records listed are results 50-39-2 .562 46-43-2..517

against the spread. Home teams are in 45-46-2 .495 43-46-2 .483 43-46-2 .483 43-46-2 .483 38·51-2 .427 CAPITAL LETTERS. 
CLEMSON over Wake Forest by 20 Deacons Tigers Tigers Deacons
T1gers Tigers Tigers Tigers Michigan over MINNESOTA by 11 Wolverines Wolverines Wolverines Wolverines
Gophers Wolverines Wolverines Wolverines North Carolina over MARYLAND by 5 Heels Heels Heels Terps
Heels Heels Heels Heels MICHIGAN STATE over Indiana by 5 Spartans Spartans Spartans Hoosiers
Hoosiers Hoosiers Spartans Spartans PENN STATE over Miami (Fla.) by 6 Lions Lions 
Lions Lions Hurricanes Lions Lions Hurricanes Pittsburgh over BOSTON COLLEGE by 18 Panthers Panthers Panthers 
Panthers Panthers Mountaineers Panthers Panthers Duke over GEORGIA TECH by 2 Jackets Jackets Jackets Jackets Jackets
Jackets Jackets Jackets Iowa over ILLINOIS by 5 Hawks Hawks Hawks 
Hawks Hawks Hawks Hawks 
Hawks PURDUE and Ohio State even Buckeyes Boilers Buckeyes Boilers Buckeyes
Buckeyes Boilers Buckeyes ALABAMA over Mississippi St. by 8 Tide Bulldogs 
Tide Bulldogs Bulldogs Bulldogs Tide Tide TEXAS over Texas Tech by 21 Horns Horns Horns Horns Horns
Horns Red Raiders Horns WISCONSIN over Northwestern by 28 Cats Cats Badgers Badgers Badgers
Badgers Cats Badgers AIR FORCE over Army by 3 Falcons Falcons Falcons Falcons Falcons
Falcons Falcons Falcons MISSOURI over Oklahoma State by 13 Tigers Tigers Cowboys Tigers Tigers
Tigers Tigers Tigers UCLA over OREGON by 10 Ducks Bruins Bruins Bruins Ducks
Bruins Bruins Bruins USC over Washington State by 13 Trojans Cougars Trojans 
Trojans Cougars Cougars Tro1ans TroJans SOUTH CAROLINA over North Carolina St. by 6 Gamecocks Gamecocks Gamecocks 
Gamecocks Gamecocks Gamecocks Gamecocks 
Gamecocks NOTRE DAME over Navy by 12 Irish Irish 
Irish Irish Irish Irish Irish Irish 


--------~--~~---------~-------~------·---------·-­


Sports Brie/§ 
By Ihe ( Jhsert•er and l'b(' As.ml'iated Press 
The Observer..Landon Turner Fundwill 
benefit from a dinner and talk by Indiana basketball coach Bobby Knight. Turner, the Hoosier's star forward, was left paralyzed by an auto accident in July. Tickets for the dinner, which is to be held at the Century Center, are 150. The talk is scheduled for the Morris Civic Auditorium on the same night, Monday, November 9. Admis­sion is I 0 dollars for adults and five dollars for students. Tickets are available at The Observer offices on the third floor of LaFortune. 
Donations for the fund are always welcome. Make checks payable to The Observer-Landon Turner Fund, P.O.Box Q, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556-The Observer 
The Off-Campus hockey team is organizing. In· terested OC men should sign up at the NVA office (C-2 ACC) or call 6100. -The Observer 
Digger Phelps will open the Notre Dame basketball team's practice to the general public tomorrow morning from 9:30 to 11:30. Admission is free to everyone. Also at that time, donations will be accepted for The Observer-Landon Turner Fund. -The Observer 
The Philadelphia Phillies were officially sold 
yesterday to a group headed by Phillies' executive vice-president Bill Giles for a record $30,175,000. The announcement was made by former owner Ruly Carpenter, whose family had controlled the franchise since 1943 when they purchased it for 5500,000. Giles will be the general partner and sole operator ofthe franchise. Among the numerous limited partners are Taft Broadcasting of Cincinnati and Philadelphiasportsman F. Eugene Dixon, who at one time or another has been a partner in the Flyers, Sixers, Eagles and Phillies. -AP 
.. 


Friday, Oct 
Three lawyersfrom New York City will be panelists for a Sports and Entertainment Law Forum to be held at Notre Dame's Center for Continuing Education next Friday (Nov. 6) The morning session will run from 10 a.m. to 12 noon, and the afternoon session will begin at 2 p.m. and conclude at 4 p.m. The three panelists will be Seymour Peyser, Richard Zahnd and Sidney Bluming, all ofwhom are specialists in this expanding field of law. Peyser has served as Vice­President of and General Counsel to United Artists Corporation. Zahnd is General Counsel to Madison Square Garden Corporation, the parent company that owns and operates the New York Knicks and Rangers. Bluming once represented the New York Yankees. 
The Observer 
The final home game for the Notre Dame soccer team will take place on Sunday afternoon, as the Irish play host to Wright State. Coach Rich Hunter's squad, now 14-3-3 on the year, still hold a slim chance of gaining an NCAA playoff berth. The Raiders, a Division II school which lost to t t he Irish, 2-1, last season, enter the contest with a fine 10-5-0 slate. The game begins at 2 p.m. on Cartier Field. -The Observer 
Referees are needed for interhall basketball. In­terested men and women should contact the NVA office (C-2 ACC) at 6100 -The Observer 
"Student Appreciation Night" is scheduled 
for tonight as the Notre Dame hockey team plays its first ever home game in the CCHA. The first 1,000 students presenting Notre Dame or Saint Mary's ID cards will be admitted FREE! The game will be the first of a two-game series with two-time defending championship Northern Michigan, and begins at 8 p.m. Gates open at 7 p.m. -The 
Observer 



er 30, 1981 -page 16 
::l 
NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE 
NATIONAL CONFERENCE 
Eut 
w L T Pet. PF PA Philadelphia 7 1 0 .875 183 112 Dallas 6 2 0 .750 197 t67 
N.Y. Giants 5 3 0 .625 164 121 St. Louis 3 5 0 .375 158 209 Washington 2 6 0 .250 135 191 Central Minnesota 5 3 0 .625 188 199 Tampa Bay 4 4 0 .500 143 128 Detroit 4 4 0 .500 197 170 Green Bay 2 6 0 .250 136 184 Chicago 2 6 0 .250 126 198 
West San Francisco 6 2 0 .750 191 140 Atlanta 4 4 0 .500 
222 162 Los Angeles 4 4 0 .500 14 180 New Orleans 2 6 0 .250 
98 163 
AMERICAN CONFERENCE East w L T Pet. PF PA Miami 5 2 1 688 186 152 Buffalo 5 3 0 .625 181 128 
N.Y. Jets 3 4 1 .438 165 202 New England 2 6 0 .250 190 183 Baltimore 
7 0 .125 148 271 
Central 
Cincinnati 5 3 0 .625 194 155 
Pittsburgh 5 3 0 .625 164 158 
Houston 4 4 0 .500 138 163 
Cleveland 4 4 0 .500 150 172 
West 
Kansas City 6 2 0 .750 207 163 
San Diego 5 3 0 .625 253 187 
Denver 5 3 0 .625 
154 112 Oakland 3 5 0 .375 98 133 Seattle 2 6 0 .250 104 171 
Sunday's Games Atlanta at New Orleans Baltimore at Miami Chocago at Tampa Bay Cleveland at Buffalo Houston at Cincinnati 
N.Y. Jets at N.Y. Giants San Franc1sc'o at Pittsburgh Seattle at Green Bay Dallas at Philadelphoa Detroit at Los Angeles Kansas City at San Diego New England at Oakland St. Louis at Washington 
Monday's Game Minnesota at Denver, n 
See BOARD, page 22_ 

The Observer will accept classifieds Mon­day through Friday. 10 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. However, classifieds to appear in the next issue must be received by 3 p.m. the business day prior to insertion. All classifieds must be prepaid, 
either in person or through the r'lail. 
Classifieds 
.......•('........ . 

36 VOLUNTEER AGENCIES IN ST. JOE LOST: One pig, goes by name of Arnold, HELP!!!I'LL DEFINITELY KILL MYSELF COUNTY NEED YOUR SUPPORT
[-NOTICES I 

approxomately lour onches in heoght. Last IF I DON'T GET SEVERAL GEORGIA 
GIVE TO UNITED WAY FAIR SHARE: seen 338 Howard. If seen, tell hom to TECH GA'S!!!!!PLEASE SAVE MY UFE·­
$2.00 OR MORE SEE YOUR SECTION USED BOOK SHOP HOURS WED , come home or bring him to 338 Howard. ·CALL 1009 LEADER 
SAT., SUN. 9-7. CASPERSON, 1303 
TICKETS 

J.l., BUCHANAN RD., NILES. LOST:MY HEART!!!PLEASE HELP A Need 2 GA Navy tox,Call Jim:289·531 1 What do broken beds, broken ovens, and Sounds cool! Your move...
Penn St. ticket wanted please call Donna 
LONELY FRESHMAN. I'M IN LOVE AND broken cars all have in common? They're Viv1an
at6771 USED & OUT-PRINT BOOKS bought, DON'T KNOW WHAT TO DO!SHE'S DESPERATELY NEED 3 NAVY TIX all in a day in the life of the Salt Dips, a sold, searched. ERASMUS BOOKS. CUDDLY, CUTE. AND BEST OF ALL STUDENT OR GA! CALL DAVE AT 1128 co~tinuous saga of lunacy, lechery, and BEWARE GIRLS:BOUNCIN is
BIG BUCKS!!! I need two GA's for NAVY lues-Sunday, 12·6. 1027 E. Wayne (One SHE LOVES ME TOO!!ITHE ONLY ANYTIME foolishness. LOOSE!!!THIS WEEKEND ONLY!call
and/or GA TECH. PLEASE HELP!!! block south of Eddy-Jefferson intersec· 
PROBLEM IS, SHE'S A GROUND 3478 for DETAILS and a DATE
CALL FRANK 8820. lion) The Rockford Files will never be the
SQUIRREL! same... Summar Programs for SMC & NO stu­
BLOOD AND GORE! 

OVERSEAS JOBS -Summer/year REWARD!II HAS ANYONE SEEN A dents. London (May 18 ·June 17) woth
II I don't get 2 GA's lor any home game.
round. Europe, S.Amer., Australia, Asoa. LITILE BROWN MOUSE NAMED SINGING CHARLIE TELEGRAMS needs travel in Ireland, Scotland. and France
Will pay bog bread. Especially need USC. All fields. $500-$1200 monthly. Sightsee­experienced singers, Call between 9·3 at 
HEMAN VERMIN IN THE VICINITY OF Need 3 stud. tix lor little bother and Rome (June 15 -July 14) woth travel in
KEVIN 8214 

ing Free info. Wrote IJC, Box 52·1N-4, CARROLL? GOES WILD TO THE BEAT lroends. Call Dan 1612 234·0959 France, Germany, and Switzerland. Corona Del Mar, CA 92625. OF JUMPIN' JACK FLASH." IF SEEN Courses in Business, History,
NEED several GA or student tix lor Navy
PLEASE CALL 47091MMEDIATELY. I need 1 GA ticket to G.Tech. Please call A DRUMMER IS DESPERATELY Philosophy, Sociology, and Theater
·Call Mary 41·4972 

ATIENTION ALL BUFFALO CLUB Jim at8046. NEEDED TO PLAY AT THE Meeting Wed, Nov 4, 7 PM on Am 232 MEMBERS CHRISTMAN NAZZ. CALL DAN 8332 Moreau, St. Mary's. For information call
A;~-~-~ from Jersey? I'm from Jersey and 
Navy Pregame Party Farley Hall base­Prof. A.A. Black 41-4948 or 272-3726 as
I need 2 Navy GA's. Willing to pay$$. Call HELP!!!!/ DESPERATELY NEED 3 GA ··············································· 
ment. BEEF on WECK woll be served. All HALLOWEEN DANCE AT LOGAN CEN· at home. 
Kate 4419. TIX TO THE NAVY GAME!! PLEASE
L FORR~

students, allumni, family and friends are TER!!!I Saturday, Oct. 31 7:30·10 pm.
CALL-JULIE 3829. 
Kowalski:welcome. LIVE BAND! DRESS UP! EVERYONE'S 

DESPERATE FOR 2 OR 4 NAVY GA ......'~.:. 
INVITED. Why has there been a parade of beauti­
TICKETS. CALL MIKE AT 1435. I NEED 1 STU & 2 GA's for NAVY call
URBAN PLUNGERS-REMEMBER THE ROOMMATE WANTED to share a COM· ful women marchong through The Ob· 
STEVE at x1816 

WORKSHOP ON SUNDAY, NOVEM· PLETEL Y furnished apt. close to NO ON· The new Molaroty book, 'Don't Make a server office talking about your birthday? 
NEED 3 GA's lor GEORGIA TECH..very
BER 1 FROM 1:30-3:30 PM, LIBRARY LY $105/ month plus elec.-call Dave at Right".. coming soon!!! Oh well, if only I could be so fortunate.
desperate'! call Larry 1809 

AUDITORIUM. 283·1169 after 11:00 p.m. Happy birthday anyway. 
Needed: two NAVY student tix. Please WE NEED Navy GA's !!!!!! Call Mike at call John 1818. Orti
TUTOR NEEDED: For H.S. Junior in TYPING SERVICE, call684·4125 UGLY DUCKLING RENT A CAR. FROM Chemistry, 2·3x/wk. Contact Volunteer
1175 or Chris at 1178. 

$7.95 A DAY & WEEKEND SPECIALS Services, 7308,1.5 LaFortune. FIGHT POLLUTION-RIDE A MOOSE. 
Mom & Dad want to see Georgia Tech Wondsurfers do it standing up. AVAILABLE CALL259-8459. 
DON'T SELL YOUR GEORGIA TECH game. Need 2 GAs Call Sue 6903 ························· BREWSTER
SENIORS: Applicatoons for SENIOR molly galvon molly galvon molly galvin. she FEMALE ROOMMATE WANTED to WEEK CHAIRMAN and SENOR FEL· TALK TO ME. YOUR BIRTHDAY IS~TICKET!!! Donate it to send a Logan child 
to the game Tickets will be collected on Need tix lor Penn State. Call Stan, 3006 or is good, & she's mone. so keep your lousy share small, furnished home with LOW CHAIRMAN are now available in the TODAY. NICE BEND OVER (TFS)
the doning halls during dinner next week. 3008 same. Ten minutes !rom NO. $130 per
hands off. student activities office. All are en­KEEP SHEP FROM LATERING THE month Includes all utilities. Call 289-couraged to apply. PARTY. COME AS YOUR FAVOITE
I NEED 2 GA NAVY TICKETS. CALL I DESPERATELY NEED 1 NAVY TICK­
9117 alter 12:30 p.m. HOCH LATER, I'M HISTORY PARTIERS 
LEADA, 277·6489. ET!! PLEASE CALL CARRIE AT 8031 !II ............. ····· .•......... ·······..........................• ARE YOU AN URBAN PLUNGER? 
P S. SIPE BLOWS, BUFFALOWS? MALE ROOMMATE NEEDED FOR FUR· 
DON'T FORGET THE REQUIRED
WAIT!!!!! I NEED TWO GEORGIA TECH SISTER NEEDS A GA TECH GA CALL
LOST/FOUND 

NISHED APARTMENT. $110/MONTH • To the sonking whales of the Tih 1:15
WORKSHOP SUNDAY. NOVEMBER 1 UTILITIES PAID. 287·5469. swim class:/ THINK YOU ARE ALL FAT
TICKETS. WILL PAY TOP DOLLAR MARK AT 1062 
FROM 1 :30·3:30 PM lN THE LIBRARY AUDITORIUM. AND UGLY WITCHES! Love, Superfreak 
I LOST MY INTERNATIONAL DRIVER CALL BILL 7289. 

OH NO My supply of STROH'S will be LICENSE IT'S A BOOKLET WITH FIVE Egyptian grad met bus 10/9 aim • keep 
stopped if I don't fond 2 Navy GA'S. CALL 
DIFFEREN LANGUAGES, MY PICTURE you in U S. Deb 255·5803. Incredible! Cleveland? Ha! The REAL
~-~ERSONALS !
LORI5168 

AND MY NAME. VISOOT PHONGSAT· Comeback Kids are in LA The BEST
[ WA~TED I 
Kurt 
HORN. IF YOU FIND IT, PLEASE CALL HAPPY BIRTHDAY ROBIN, LOVE AL­team on baseball-the Dodgers­
Unless I get ONE GA TECH ticket. 6000 
289·2119. WAYS, TONY. WORLD CHAMPS of 1981 
wold Llamas will be sacrificed in Bolovoa. II HAIRBRAIDING for all occasions. 291­
you can prevent this, call Save the Llamas 8215TYPING WANTED. Fast, Accurate, Close 
PLUSH PUP and Reasonable. 272·41 05 or 272· 4272. 
LOST: CANON AE·1 CAMERA DURING HIDE YOUR FACE.
Society at 8627 or 8623. USC WEEKEND. IF FOUND. PLEASE HALLOWEEN COSTUME PARTY alias TEEV 
Cakes, gofts, phone calls. letters... don't HAPPY BIRTHDAY,THE BIGCALL2968. REWARD!! will trade comboned NAVY GA. TECH st. send them 'cause a BELL YGRAM os bet­Fro. Oct. 30, 9:00pm.... ?
I DESPERATELY NEED 1 NAVY GA '21',YOU'RE A GREAT GUY,DON'T

K C and LOST before break: Brown Tweed Cap: welcome FORGET TO DO THE 21 'HITS' A HUG Patch on the inside with "Donegal AND LOVE, THE C-MAN CALL DAN AT 8886. TIX lor PENN ST TIX Phil233·3411 ter! Student Rates 291-8215 of Hall..·members guests 
I need a rode to Md./D.C. at Need two Navy GA tickets. Call Paul at 
Tweed" on it. Please call Kevin at 3737. area DON'T MAKE A RIGHT 
277·0692Thanksgoving: Share usuai.PLEASE call PUDDLES, ARE YOU PAPER TRAINED JUNIPER PRESS announces the sale of Andy at 1247. 

YET? book (streetman) in room 212 Cushing . . : . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
whoever found a calculator and EPHYS TWO NOTRE DAME ALUMNI ARE Two wrongs the new MOLARITY book, DON'T MAKE 
TRYING TO REUNITE THEIR FAMILY DON'T MAKE A RIGHT A RIGHT, now available on the Bookstore. . . .. . 
True stories. about child or teenage

PLEASE call mike at 8598. substantial Also, meet author ·and campus per­HAPPY BIRTHDAY BRUCE! LOVE
AT THE PARENTS' DAY NAVY GAME.
heroics wanted lor special report. Call MERLINreward!!!H WE NEED MANY TICKETS!! CALL sonality Mochael Molinelli at a special

Kathy or Heather at 7850 or 7848. 

JOHN (1697) "SIMON" Autograph Party this Monday, from 3:30 To the person who accidentally mistook the touching story of a Father and his to 5 p.m. in the Nazz, the basement of 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY TO OUR COOLEST 

my wallet for his in the men's lockeroom of NEED NAVY GA TIX $$ CALL MARK mouse... LaFortune. II you missed the last book, or FRIEND (BRUCE) FROM THE TWO the Rockne Memorial, I would be eternally 8833 the last autograph party. that's wrong. PEOPLE TIED FOR SECOND grateful if you would return it. I know that c)R SALE ] Fast, typing 
COOLEST

TYPING! accurate at And two wrongs DON'T MAKE A RIGHT. the extra money os very useful but please 
FOR SALE: Four (4) GA's lor Navy and reasonable rates. Call Lynn Saylor, 233· understand that I will not have another 3423. Hey Lynne.. 
HUGS AND KISSES. BRUCE! 

Georgia Tech. Best offer. Also will trade dollar till Christmas break. If you can't lind two (2) Navy GA's lor two (2) Navy Stu· Don't have any fun, don't go out, do2 studen!Jix, side by side, lor Navy & Ga MY HEART BMY HEART BELONGS TOit in your heart to return the money, I dent lockets and $. Call JB at 8446 after UNITED WAY study, and don't evereat..anything. OK? 
Tech. CALL289·4180 BRUCE KOWALSKI! 

would apprecoate it if you would return my UNITED WAY 
3PM. LD. so at least I'll be able to eat ..... Thank UNITED WAY JEsuir.vol.l.INrEER.cof'lps REPRE:
COUCHES $30 and up, CHAIRS $5 and I LIKE YOU, BRUCE, BECAUSE I KNOW you. x1160 up. Call Mrs. Cooper at 272-3004 after 12 NEED GA TIX FOR NAVY CALL 234· GIVE YOUR FAIR SHARE SENTATIVE TO RECRUIT AT NOTRE 

_

.. YOU WONT TOUCH ME! C.C. 
7336 RICH NOV.1-8. DAME ON TUESDAY.-NOV. 3 IN V.S.O 
noon Free delivery to dorm. 

LOST: A Gold watch. Bucherer," around 1.5 LAFORTUNE 9:30-4:30. SMC STU­Madeleva Monday Oct. 26. It has GREAT DENTS JVC REP TO RECRUIT IN 
BRUCE, SALE. 4 NAVY GA'S TOGETHER BEST 
1 NEED GAs ,;of'l NAvv: GEORGIA 
sentimental value. If found, PLEASE call LEMANS HALL SAME DAY JE TAIME POUR TOUJOURS! 
TECH, PENN ST PETE 233·8091. Has anyone seen Arnold? Katoe at 5416 
OFFER 287·7157. 



--·------------·--· 
Friday, October 30, 1981 -page 17
The Observer 


IF YOU KNOW 
SOMETHING ABOUT 
CAMPUS NEWS OR 
SPORTS THAT WE DON'T, SIMPLY CALL IN TO WIN THE $5 WEEKLY PRIZE FOR 
THE BEST J+R NEWS/SPORTS TIP 
~ S/MPL Y CALL 8661 
Catch The 
Fighting 
;, The Observer 
nn mLicpcnlJcnl !.IU\Icnl rar.,'!'!tcnlf1' lll•lrcdt.mc lind ~t. mary'!ii
..........................-;-;-.-..-:.-.-. ....... 
Makr d•c:•·k payable tu· The Observer 
anu mallw P.O. Box Q 
Name 
Addn:ss 
~-------;:------­
City State Zip 
0 Enclosed is $2'; for remainder of the J9H I·Hl acadt·mic year ( 5.22 aftt·r Sl'ptl'mhcr :\0 ). 
0 Enclosed i~ SI<; for remainder of the fall ~emt•stcr ( S 1.2 after Sep· tl'mhl'r .10 ). 
AU •ubscrlptlons must be pre-paid 

···•·························•······· 

------~--r-~-------------------~ ~--~ -~~­
..--------~--~....--~--------~------~-----~-­
The Observer -Sports · Friday, October 30, 1981 -page 18 

As Thdgers rejctce, Steinbrennerfrin6 
NEW YORK (AP) -The Los An­geles Dodgers returned home to a heroes' welcome yesterday, while New York Yankees owner George Steinbrenner considered a World Series he couldn't afford to forget. 
About 10,000 exuberant fans greeted the Dodgers at Los Angeles International Airport yesterday morning. The Dodgers had beaten the Yankees 9-2 Wednesday night to claim their first World Series title since 1965, four games to two. 
Several hours afterward and some
World Series Co-MVP Steve Yeager celebrates 

3,000 miles to the east, Steinbrenner
his home run in Game Five with pinch-bitter ex­

held court in his office at Yankee
traordinaire jay Johnstone (left) and Dodger 

: • : • • • • -:I'• ----------------------------------------------------------------.
When you need $65 fast, 
you find out who your friends are. 
It's the middle of the night and everyone has an excuse. Then, finally, you get the one person who, even though he's not very happy about it, will come through. And you think, "I knew it. Why didn't I just call him in the first place?" 
So when the crisis is over, he's going to deserve something a little special. Tonight, letitbeLowenbrau. 


Lowenbriiu.Here's to ~-(d~!!~!any.Milwaukee.Wisco"~" 
• 


Stadium. His purpose was to make 
clear that he, alone, took respon­
sibility for the Yankees defeat, and 
he apologized. ' 
"The only way failure can be ac­
ceptable is if you learn from it. You 
can sit and say, 'We'll get them next 
time,' but that's not good enough," 
the owner said. "You have to replace 
words with deeds." 
The Dodgers won the Series after losing the first two games at Yankee Stadium on Tuesday and Wednesday oflast week by scores of5-3 and 3-0. Los Angeles won the next three at home -5-4, 8-7 and 2-1 -and then trounced the Yankees Wednesday behind the hitting of Pedro Guer­rero, who had five RBI with a homer, triple and a single. 
Afterward, Steinbrenner issued a public apology that read, in part: "I want to sincerely apologize to the people of New York and to fans of the New York Yankees every~rhere for the performance of the Yankee team in the World Series. I also want to assure you that we will be at work immediately to prepare for 1982." 
When he heard about the printed statement, Yankee slugger Reggie Jackson responded angrily: "I apologize, I apologize, I apologize. Well, I don't apologize for anything. I'm sorry we didn't win, but we tried our best." 
Steinbrenner took exception.. 
"I made the apology to the fans, 
that I was genuinely sorry we didn't 
do better in the World Series," 
Steinbrenner said. "I don't care tf 
Reggie wams to make light of it. t 
don't want to take anything away 
from Los Angeles, but if there's any 
player that can stand up and say hl· 
acquirted himself as a Yankee 
should, he: doesn't belong in the um­
form." 
The 35-year-old Jackson is <m•-of 
several oldt·r Yankees plap:rs who 
could move on next year when 
Stdnbrennt-r begins remodeling his 
club, Steinbrenner said yesterday 
that change;, might also include the 
team's philosophy as well a..~ p<c~S<Jn­
nel. 
There wa..'i nothing uni4ue. 
however, about Steinbrenner's po!>i 
tion. The Dodgers find themselves in 
a similar situation. In fact, while the 
starting lineup of the Yankees \X'ed­
nesday night included only three 
men under :h>, the Dodger~· in­
cluded just one, Guerrero, 25. 
The Dodgers infield -Steve Gar­vey, 32, at first base; Davey Lopes, 35, at second; Bill Russell, 33. at shortstop, and Ron Cey, 33, at third -has been together for a decade. 
Lopes set a record for second 
basemen by committingsix errors in 
the Series, and he may be gone to 
make way for Steve Sax, who played 
much of the second half of the 
season. 
See DODGERS, page 22 
• • .Marriage 
continuedfrom page 19 
but it doesn't take long for people to get to know me and accept me as an individual. Actually,'' she adds, "I was pretty realistic about that probably happening at first." 
As far as football is concerned)lsa­says she really didn't like the spon much before she knew Bob. "However it helps," Lisa adds, "to know someone who is playing ­and Bob is very helpful in explaining the game to me." 
She is very supportive of Bob's J;X>tential future in pro ball, but wishes he could play in Cincinnai. "Bob tells me not to get my hopes built up about Cincinnai," cautions Lisa.. 



Friday, October 30, 1981 -page 19 



• • .ararebr~ 

By LYNNE LEONE 
!>ports Writer 
Though it is not a common situa­tion at Notre Dame, there arc some student athletes who arc not only attending classes as full time stu­dents and in some cases, holding down part time jobs, but who arc also marrkd and maintaining a home life. 
Notre Dame has no stipulated policy against undergraduates being married, although there were many from the earlier days at Notre Dame who thought there might be an academic restriction of that sort. There were others who felt that al­though there was no written rule against marriage, there was a tradi­tion. 
A good example of this miscon­ception involved one of Notre Dame's football stars who played for Knute Rockne. Fullback Joseph "Jumpin' Joe" Savoldi was expelled from Notre Dame in 19 30. Today, people of that era recall that Savoldi was expelled because he was married. Further research indicated that indeed Savoldi was expelled in 1930 for a marriage-related reason. 
Yet even though Savoldi's two­year marriage was kept secret, it ap­pears that was not the reason for his expulsion. Instead, what had developed was that Savoldi was seeking a divorce and it was the divorce suit that not only made his marriage publicly known, but also aroused controversy in the eyes ofa Catholic institution. The wire story carried by the South Bend Tribune on November 17, 1930 stated that though the University refused to "discuss publicly cases of dis­cipline," that it "is assumed that Savoldi's action in withdrawing is the result of the embarrassment brought to the University by his in­volvement in the divorce suit." 
Though students have been allowed to be married while attend­ing Notre Dame, there has been only one period known where a large number of undergraduate students were married. This was during the post World War II and reknowned "Vet Village" era. Ofcourse, the stu­dents were known to be a little older then since the War had interrupted their studies at Notre Dame. 
Yet within that large number of married students, very few varsity athletes were to be found. As a mat­ter of fact, Washington Redskin quarterbackJoe Theismann was one of the first notable Notre Dame ath­letes to be married while attending Notre Dame. His wife, Cheryl, helped finance their way through 
Notre  Dame  by  working  in  the  
Sports  Information  Office  on  
campus in 1970 and 1971.  

Today's married varsity athletes can be found in baseball, hockey, football and other sports. 


Bryan Smith, senior pitcher for the Notre Dame baseball team, and his wife Diana ea.o;ily have adjusted to married life at Notre Dame. Diana helps with the family budget by working a.o; a secretary in the Notre Dame Law School. Though they share a goal in Bryan receiving his Notre Dame degree next spring, the major excitement in their lives cur­rt·ntly is the anticipation oftheir first child due around Thanksgiving. Though they both profess to have no particular preference, Bryan admits that ··maybe a girl wouldn't be: so had." 
Though their parents arc readily accssiblc.: in Syracuse, Ind .. Diana and Bryan both insist on being on their own. "Wl' thought this thing out very !'.eriously," says Bryan, "and if Wl' didn't think we could make it to· gethcr on our own, wt·'d have waitt:d." 
Their social lik b more family orknted than to campus lift-. Both part·nts managt· to visit wherwver 
they can. But whatever spare time 
they have they prefer to spend to­
gether. Diana says that whatever 
socializing they do is generally with 
the baseball team. Since they felt 
they couldn't afford it, they didn't 
purchase football tickets this year. 
But, Bryan does manage to get to a 
game by himself from time to time, 
and Diana doesn't mind. "I'm not 
really a football fan," she admits. 
iiryan !lays .he doesn't reel iiKC. he's 
missing much of campus social life. 
Be says that even when he did live in 
a dorm, he "just never got into the 
social aspects ofcampus life." 
Bryan says that Diana is a great 
source of motivation for him be­
cause she actually makes sure he 
docs his studies. He admits that their 
first semester together did cause his 
grades to go down a bit -mainly 
because they were trying to get used 
to a new lifestyle. "But," Bryan says, 
"I find that my grades have actually 
gone up since Diana has forced me 
to concentrate on my studies." 
Diana tries to get to Bryan's baseball games, though sometimes it's not easy to get to all the away games. She says she's "learning to be a baseball wife." 
As far as future plans are con­cerned, Bryan says he needs to be very realistic about any prospects of playing professional ball since he'll have a family to support. He said that he must feel certain that there would be a good chance to play before he would go onto profes­sional baseball since he is relunctant to incur too many sarifices on his new family. Diana says that she feels everything could work out if Bryan would want to try out for the pros. "I wouldn't hold him back," she says. "I think the sacrifices would be worth it." 
Wedfirg; oo ice 
The Notre Dame hockey team has the greatest number of married players. Juniors Kirt and Tricia Bjork, Mark and Kim Doman, John and Margaret Higgins, and Jeff and Lisa Perry all are happily married. 
They all admit that time con­straints imposed by studies and a rigorous hockey schedule limit their socializing to hockey events, and as a result, they all feel quite close to each other as a group. 
Yet as Kirt contends, he and Tricia have not isolated themselves from their old friends -especially since they have shared the same friends through college. Tricia says she finds that their friends still treat them as "individuals rather than a married couple." 
Kirt and Tricia have somewhat of a unique situation in that Tricia is also a Notre Dame student. The situation is also somewhat compli­cated since Tricia is a senior mec­hanical engineer major. Consequently, Kirt feels that being a junior he may be holding back her career plans until he graduates. Plus, Kirt says that it's really not "a blow to my ego that Tricia could poten­tially be the major bread winner of the family." 

Tricia responds by saying their "life together is the most important thing." She says she is supportive of any professional hockey plans Kirt might have. As far as staying back a year until Kirt graduates, Tricia feels that she should share this time with him since "sharing Notre Dame to­gether means alot to me." 
Mark Doman feels that being married is just a matter of preference. "It's a personal choice," he says, "because marriage is better for some people than for others. It depends on the individual." Though his wife Kim classifies herself as a "Hockey Widow" she says the sacrifices are well worth it. Mark feels that he has learned to budget his time even better now. "I actually have more time for my studies now," says Mark, "because now that I have . Kim with me, it cuts down on all those trips back and forth to visit each other." 
They both held jobs over the sum­mer and feel that they were able to save enough for this year's expenses. As far as future plans are concerned Kim says they really don't talk too much in terms of hockey plans but more in terms of establishing a career -ofgetting a "real job." 
John and Margaret Higgins are the newlyweds ofthe group. Margaret is proud of the fact that they just had their three-month anniversary. Con­sequently, they are just now ex­periencing married life at Notre Dame together. Margaret could con­sider herself an "Academic Widow" as well as a "Hockey Widow" since John also spends his evenings buried in the archivies of the Notre Dame library studying. 
Yet, Margaret doesn't feel aban­donned because she has the security of her hockey team family. "I've met some really nice people here," says Margaret. "I was automatically ac­cepted into the family." Margaret says she wants John to succeed academically and with his hockey. "I would be supportive of anything he wants to do, but I think it would be just great ifhe were lucky enough to be chosen for a hockey career." 
John says he doesn't feel any dif­ferent being married sine he and Margaret have been dating and going out together with other couples ever since they've been at Notre Dame. He says the team is the main focus of their social life and they still have lots of single friends, too. 
As far as career plans are con­cerned, John says, "Everyone would like to go into the pros, but I'm more realistic about having a profession that involves my marketing major." 

Jeff Perry, who is a senior, and his night. wife Lisa also maintain that the hock­Since she works at a local bank, ey team provides an outlet for them lisa is the breadwinner these days, to make lots of friends -both but that doesn't seem to bother Bob married and single. As Jeffputs it, "If too much. "We had to weigh the I weren't married, I'd be doing the financial considerations," he admits. exact same things -only this time "We realized this was going to be a 
I'm · them with Lisa." big responsibility." Bob very proud­ly asserts that lisa is the one who handles the checkbook and "she made me more conscious about financial concerns." 
Bob is very happy with his married life. He is enjoying sharing · his senior year with his bride and feels lisa isn't having too much trouble adjusting to all his notoriety. "She's excited about it but pretty much takes it all in stride." 
A professional football career seems very likely, and Bob realizes he needs to consider his family obligations in future contract negotiations. "I'm not too con­cerned about where we wind up," Bob admits, "because we plan to make Cincinnati our home during the off-season since that's where our
jeffPerry 

family and most ofour friends are." lisa admits it has taken awhile to
They both find marriage to be a new lifestyle and the only adjust­ment Jeff confesses to is budgeting his time better. As a matter of fact, Jeffsays that his grades actually have improved now that he doesn't have to spend so much time worrying about his future life with lisa. As Lisa puts it, "We are both just glad to get it over with -now we can con­centrate on our new life together." Jeff says that he doesn't know whether professional hockey is in the future but he hopes to go to Europe to play. And, Jeff is very enthused about including his bride in his plans: "Ifl go to Europe, WE go to Europe!" 
Another set of newlyweds on campus is senior football captain 

Bob Crable 

Bob Crable and wife Lisa. Bob says ­Lisa may be having the most dif­new people. She enjoys married life, ficulty adjusting since he is gone so but honestly admits she did not ex­much both because of football and pect Bob to be this busy during foot­because ofhis studies. "In any case," ball season, and knows it will be says Bob, "it's a lot more convient better once the football season is having lisa here bcause the time we over. do spend together is really great." "I'm very proud of Bob and all his Bob says Sunday is a special time for notoriety," she says, but admits she them because they have the oppor­doesn't like being treated as "Mrs. tunity to spend some time together BOB CRABLE." According to lisa, or visit friends on campus. They "At first I'm considered Bob's wife . paticularly enjoy going to Mass on 
See MARRIAGE, page 18 

campus together ev~2._ _:;~~.>.:_ 

THlJRS~ FRI. II:JO.II:JOeSAT. B!l0-5:31 
272-0112•277-1691 
•••••••iCou~••••••• 
1 For The Total Look 1 
: ~d~ ~~ on a Styled Hair Cut, : 
.6.l" ~ Shampoo, Blow Dry &
'3'

I C.. Cond'.1t10ner. I
1 1
I ~ Reg.SIS.OO I 
1 Now slO" Complete 1 
• The Kni2hts of the Castle I 
I 277-16'91 272-0312 I 
•••••• • • • •tCLIP AND SAVEl• • • • • .-.... 


Friday, October 30, 1981 ­
The Observer-Sports 

NBAseasonbeginstonight 

Boston Celtic center Robert Parrish (00) will lead his teammates in defense oftheir world cbampionsbip as tbe 1981-82 NBA season begins tonigbt. See preview at rigbt. ( AP Photo) 

By GARY MYERS 
Associated Press 

Two weeks later than usual, the National Basketball Association season gets under way tonight, with the Boston Celtics opening defense of their championship at home against the revamped Washington Bullets. 
The NBA pushed back the start of the season to avoid conflict with the World Series. The strategy backfired somewhat with baseball adding an­other playoff round due to a mid­season strike, moving the ending of the Series to this week. The NBA's late start, however, means the playoffs won't end until the middle ofjune. 
Twenty of the league's 23 teams are in action tonight, with only Seattle, San Diego and Denver idle. 
In addition to the Washington­
Boston game, the rest of the 
schedule includes: the New York 

is more than just textbooks. 
Books are a great gift idea Some exaritples iD.clude: 
S9.95 
''the ·university 's past vibrantly by 
a brillitlnt storyteller1 Arthur ]. Hope 1 
--Was a limited best seller 
reissued from the '40's. 

.. 
':::;­
$7.98 ~ ~.~"'-~·~ 
NDTRfDAMf

~ 
l 
I 
''a 50 year history offootball's o-ldest inter-sectional nvali.Y 
Countless others include : 

best sellers, art, religious, children 's books, travel books 
C.S. C. ' ' 
$2.95 

A blank book-­'}or your most cherished thoughts ' • --for poetry1 quotes1 jouritali;diary 1 etc. 

Sale 

S3.45 

''cooking for ose before and after game tailgaiters can be made a science ' ' 
riors at the Denver Nuggets; the Dal­las Mavericks at the Utah Jazz; the Phoenix Suns at the Portland Trail Blazers, and in a game to be national­ly televised (CBS, 11:30 p.m. EST), the Los Angeles Lakers entertain the Houston Rockets. 
The Celtics' route to another championship is expected to be strongly challenged by the 76ers, Lakers, Sonics, Suns and Bucks. Still, the Celtics have a good chance of repeating. Its frontcourt of Larry Bird, Cedric Maxwell, Robert Parish, Kevin McHale and Rick Robey is among the best in the league. 
Elsewhere in the Atlantic Divi-· sion, Philadelphia returns 11 veterans, including NBA Most Valuable Player Julius Erving, and has No. 1 pick Franklin Edwards, a guard from Cleveland State. Most of the 23 teams took advantage of the new league rule allowing 12 players on the roster. 
The Knicks appear to have strengthened themselves with the addition of veterans Maurice Lucas, Mike Newlin and Randy Smith. The Nets, with over 11,000 season tick­ets sold in their new arena, have a new coach, Larry Brown, new 
-players Otis Birdsong, Buck Wil­liams. Ray Tolbert, Albert King and Ray Williams, and an oiJ problem, 
· the lack of a bonafide center. The Bullets' days of Wes Unseld, Elvin Hayes, Mitch Kupchak and Bobby Dandridge are over. Washington has signed veterans Spencer Haywood and John Lucas and acquired Jim Chones and Brad Holland in trades. The Central Division could be a tossup among the Atlanta Hawks, Milwaukee Bucks and Chicago Bulls, providing they all have their full teams. Due to a string ofinjuries, the Hawks, under new Coach Kevin Loughery, will begin the season . without starters Wes Matthews, Eddie Johnson and John Drew and a top reserve, AI Wood. The Bucks are without forward MarquesJohnson, a holdout. The Bulls still are without unsigned Orlando Woolridge, their No.1 pick. The Pistons have new life with rookies lsiah Thomas and Kelly Tripucka. The Pacers have benched George McGinnis in favor of Louis Orr, and the Cavaliers hope free agents )ames Edwards, Bobby Wilkerson and Scott Wedman turn around the struggling franchise. In the Midwest Division, the Kansas City Kings have a new look. Gone are free agents Birdsong and Wedman. The new Kings include Steve johnson, Cliff Robinson, Frank johnson and Kevin Loder. The Rock­ets brought back Hayes, a familiar face in Houston, to team with Moses Maione. The Spurs have their mus­cular ''Bruise llrothers" trontline and George Gervin in the backcourt. Denver, with its run-and-gun style under Doug Moe, has much im­proved t(>rward Kiki Vandeweghe to start the season. Utah, led by NBA ·scoring champion Adrian Dantley and 1981 Rookie of the Year Darrell Griffith, is hoping that No. 1 draft pick Danny Schayes can get some rebounds, and the Mavericks, with rookies Mark Aguirre, Rolando Blackman and Jay Vincent, should do better than the 1 5 victories they had last season, their first in the league. In the Western Divison, the Lakers' starting five of Kareem Abdul-Jabbar, Kupchak, )amaal Wilkes, Magic Johnson and Norm Nixon is among the best in the league. The Seattle SuperSonics, with Gus Williams back and Lonnie Shelton healthy, are a different team than the one that won only 34 games last season. 
The Suns will have a tough time replacing All-Star guard Walter Davis, out at least six weeks with a fractured elbow. The Blazers have lots of talent with Mychal Thompson, Kelvin Ransey, Jim Pax­son and Billy Ray Bates. The War­riors will rely on high scorers Bernard King and t Lloyd Free but will miss rebounder Larry Smith, a hold­out; and the San Diego Clippers are rebuilding around young forwards Michael Brooks and Tom Chambers. 

continued from page 24 
making the transition from high 
school, where he made 132 solo 
tackles, five interceptions, and four 
fumble recoveries in leading Fos­
toria to an unbeaten season last fall. 
"The older players showed me a lot," the 6-2, 190-pounder says. "That's the thing about here. There is nothing anybody on this team wouldn't do for each other -even if you are going after their position." 
After football season winds down, track coach Joe Piane might like to see Johnson running and jumping for him. Johnson won the Ohio state long jump title as a sophomore and holds the school record in the 300­meter hurd!~. 
Whatever Johnson does off the football field, he does it quietly. 
On it, though, the man is a tiger. 






The Observer-Sports Friday, October 30, 1981 -page 21 
JUST FOR THE RECORD
, 

HAS A BIG TREAT FOR YOU 
S\._,..\) Halloween Day Sale 
saturday oct. 31., 10 Am-10 Pm
Po\-~ 


for some of the best deals around!! 
1.00 off all LP's & tapes In stock featuring some of the latest on Warner Bros. Records and Tapes 
free papers with SJO purchase 
free music box membership with SJO purchase 
f::o 
free record sleeves with every LP purchase
'Af2~o

IVf2A GENESIS
I 
FOREIGNER 


c;eMuA4.
abacab 
INCLUDES URGENT/ JUKE BOX HERO/NIGHT liFE WAITING FOR AGIRL LIKE YOU 


all Jl.OO oH plus more on Halloween at 

JUST FOR THE RECORD 100 CENTER COMPLEX MISHAWAKA, INDIANA 46544 
219-259-1810 Don't miss the fun Come and Be-witch Us II 



A rultural experience: on the road 
When the World Series moved from New York to Los Angeles after Game Two, a lot ofpeople felt it definitely was going in the right direction. Any direction would 
do for most. Take Kaye Kessler, the crack Columbus, Ohio, journalist. 
Kaye was walking home to his hotel one midnight along Seventh Avenue near 54th Street, not normally considered your basic Lion Country, when he was ac­costed by a young woman he did not know. She had a business proposition to make, but Kaye was not in the market. 
Merchants are aggressive in New York, though, and the lady began to grab Kaye by the lapels and elsewhere, suddenly, she whipped a hand into his breast coat pocket and made off with his wallet. Startled, Kaye chase. That was his second mistake of the night. His first was walking alone on a New York street after You're better off riding a shark, or submerg­
in a lJ-boat under attack. You know, adventure used to be climbing the Matter-en or riding through Indian country with a Bowie 
nifc, or walking wings on a biplane. Now, i"fs walking 
hrough Central Park with a gold watch. Kaye didn't chase the girl long. She had reinforcc­·nts nearby. A giant accomplice stepped out of the 
and slammed Kaye across the mouth with a lfl..:~tlllt·r--cnvet-ed lead pipe, a device well known to the >lice as a "slammer." It took several hours at a hospital restore Kaye's mouth to a semblance of its former and reset the smashed teeth -the ones they 
mid, anyway. 
It took some time to even get to the hospital. Several >ther night strollers simply stepped over Kaye. They anted to keep their own teeth, I guess. In New York, he sight ofa man lying unconscious bleeding from the 
mouth on a sidewalk is as familiar as the Statue of .iberty, one of the Big Apple's tourist attractions. They sc11 tickets to it soon. At scalper's prices. 
WeB, New York isn't the only place you go abroad at pt·ril. This traveler was in Montreal a week ago in 1ccd of some Canadian currency to take care of the 
ires (tips) and Metro tokens. I went to a bank with which I was familiar in the com­of malls, hotels and restaurants where the Olym­had its headquarters in 1976. 
At the bank, I pushed some bills at the teller, a young who seemed to be in the throes of choking to "Non, non," she said to me pushing the money 

Best of JiiD Murray 
back. Her face was deathly white. 

It was then I noticed a man at my elbow was also in 
the process of obtaining some Canadian currency. He 
was robbing the bank.. 

He was talking in rapid but forceful French. But the tone of his voice was unmistakable. The threat of sud­den death is a universal language like love or music. 
I did what the French do in difficult circumstances: I pretended I couldn't understand a word of what was going on. Your hero sauntered over to a counter and pretended to be filling out a deposit slip -well out of the line offire, and it happened. I was ready with stand by "Je Ne Comprends Pas, Mon Vieux." ("I don't under­stand a word you're saying, old cock.") In case the bank didn't have enough for him, I was also ready with "]'ai Seulement Monnaie Americain," ("I have only Yankee do11ars") in the hopes he wouldn't know the do11ar was currently worth about a $1.12 in Canada. 
Well, he backed out the door and disappeared in the mall, stuffing his bills with the Queen's picture oh them in his red plastic rain jacket. I don't know ifhe had a gun or not. He pretended he did. And I didn't want to find out the hard way that he really did. 
You can see, the road is not a11 room service and 
squab under glass. It's a melange of draughty pres­
srooms, snow flurries, views of an air well strewn with 
garbage outside your hotel room window, and the 
scratches of what you take to be rats out there in the 
early morning hours. At least, you hope they are only 
rats. 

New York is always a cultural experience. I mean 
they have the opera, and the museums, and the Empire 
State Building. Also, it's a great place for a safari. And, 
they also have the Yankees. They're not too much fun to 
run into at night, either. But I don't think the Dodgers 
were as awed by the Yankee batting order as they were 
by the fact that the Yankees can survive in this town at 
a11. I mean, these guys must be tough. 
(c) 198/,LosAnge/esTimes 


Yankee owner George Steinbrenner brushes offa reporter with his healthy right hand while displaying his fractured left band. According to jim Murray, incidents like Steinbrenner-'s elevator scuffle are all part oflife on the road. See his column at left. ( AP · Photo) 
~erulllcler • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 
ALL URBAN PLUNGERS 
requir~d to attend Orientation Workshop Sunday, Nov. 1, 1:30-3:30 pm library Auditorium. 
The Observer-Sports Friday, October 30, 1981 -page 22 

Believe it or not, it'll be less than a month until we once again hear the chants for "Cecil!" Here, Irish forward Cecil Rucker seems to be looking ahead to the upcoming season. For ticket informa· tion, see story at right. (photo by Tonia Hap) 
P'INOCCHIO'S PIZZA PARLOR 
-Hours 
Fast Delivery Service 
Mon-Thurs 11 am-12 pm Fri-Sat 11 am-1:30 am Sun 4 pm-11 pm 
-Beer Specials 
Every Nite 8:00-10:00 $1.75 Pitcher $.50 Mug 
-HAPPY HOUR 
Mon-Fri 4 pm-6 pm Fri-Sat 8 pm-12 am 4 ft wide screen TV 
277-4522 

E 
s
PLEASE-one coupon per pizza N emmons 
his coupon good 1 This coupon good ~o•/ ., for one I for one I ~c/'..,.o~ ~ 
----~~----~------------, 1r 
juniper
LARGE PIZZA I MEDIUM PIZZA I 'f';~ ~ $1.00 OFF $.75 OFF I ·~
I 
expires 10-30-8 'l expires 10-30-81 I w
-----------____________..._________. 

Basketballtickets availableMonday 
Notre Dame Students 
Basketball ticket sales and dis­tribution for Notre Dame students will begin on Monday (Nov. 2): The student basketball season ticket will be split into two eight-game packages ofequal quality as follows: 
Package A Sat., Nov. 28 -St. Joseph's Mon., Dec. 7 -Murray State Sat.,Jan. 16-Davidson Sat.,Jan. 23 -Maryland Wed.,Jan. 27-Maine Tues. Feb. 2 -San Francisco Sat., Feb. 27 -DePaul Tues., Mar. 2 -Northern Iowa 
PackageD 
Fri., Nov. 20 -Yugoslavia Team 
Sat., Dec. 5 -UCLA 
Sat., Dec. 12-Northern Illinois 
Tues.,jan. 19-Villanova 
Mon.,jan. 25-Idaho 
Sat.,Jan. 30-Marquette 
. Sat., Feb. 13 -N.C. State 
Tues., Feb. 23-Fordham 
Seniors and juniors only will have the opportunity to purchase Package A, Package B or both packages at the designated times listed below. Based upon the demand from the seniors and juniors, both packages or just one package will be offered to sopho­mores/lawI graduate students. All sophomores/lawI graduate students will at least be guaranteed the op­portunity to purchase one eight­game season ticket. Freshmen will be offered the residual of the eight­game season tickets from above on a first-come, first-served basis. 
Strict adherence to the folowing schedule is mandatory, and there can be no exceptions: Seniors -Mohday (Nov. 2);]uniors -Tues­day (Nov. 3); Sopho­mores/Graduate/Law Students ­
•IIJ/)ERS 
l'f·oF THE 
LOST ARK 

Starring HARRISON FORD 
KAREN ALLEN 
Gkow3 

2:15-4:30-7:15~9:45 ~ 
Wednesday (Nov. 4); Freshmen ­Thursday (Nov. 5). The ticket win­dows will be openfrom 8 a.m. until 5 
p.m. through the lun'ch hour. 

Crowd-control gates ;md student security persollilel will be utiliZed for the ticket issue. Please stand in single lines as it1dicated by the crowd-control gates. Gate 2 will be open at 7:30 a.m. daily. 
Astudent ID and payment must be presented at the ticket windows on the second floor of the ACC. The prices of the alternatives are as fol­lows: Lower Arena -1124 for one package, $48 for both; Bleachers ­$18 for one package, $36 for both. Make checks payable to the Univer­sity ofNotre Dame. 
All seats are a.'isigned in the stu­dent section, but · are NOT preassigned by the Ticket Office. If you wish to sit with a classmate, you must present your ID!> and money together for adjacent seating. No student may present more than four IDs. 
Married students should report to the ticket windows with their respective class and on the scheduled day. When picking their tickets, they are asked to present evidence ofyour marital status. 
Saint Mary's Students 
All classes should pick up lottery 
forms at their residence hall's desk 
this week. Completed forms inust be 
returned to the Saint Mary's Student 
Activities Office no later than Friday 
(Oct. 30! ). List of lottery winners 
will be posted in the residence halls 
and in the dining hall on Monday 
(Nov. 3 ). Lottery winners then must 
bring a check for $18 to the Student 
Activities office no later than Friday 
(Nov. 6). -The Observer 

&~11/tttrJ~ 
2:00-4:30-7:00-9:30 

PRINCE DPTHE CITY
6u Swt. h 'FlU. 1:30-4:40-8:00 Mcowa-1:00-4:00-7~00:.10:00 
UNITED WAY STUDENT CAMPAIGN 
COLLECTIONS IN ALL DORMS BY SECTION LEADERS 
STUDENT FARE SHARE S2 
Unitedway 
of St. Joseph County, Inc. 
1 ~Notre Dame is a caring place ' ' 
• • .lbard 
continuedfrom page 16 

NATIONAL HOCKEY LEAGUE Top 16 teama qUIIIIIy lor plllyofta 
w  L  T  GF  GA  Pta  
Philadelphia  8  1  1  44  33  17  
Edmonton  8  4  0  60  46  16  
Montreal  6  0  4  64  26  16  
N.Y. Islanders  7  1  2  45  33  16  
Minnesota  6  2  2  43  26  14  
Buffalo  5  2  3  35  ,33  13  
Boston  5  2  3  42  38  13  
Quebec  6  5  0  53  44  12  
Los Angeles  6  5  0  56  54  12  
Pittsburgh  4  7  2  43  58  10  
Winmpeg  4  3  2  43  37  10  
Detroit  4  4  2  38  41  10  
Chicago  2  3  4  43  46  8  
St. Louis  3  6  2  47  52  8  
Toronto  3  5  2  42  45  8  
Vancouver  2  5  3  28  37  7  
Calgary  2  7  2  37  54  6  
Hartford  1  4  4  34  40  6  
N.Y. Rangers  3  7  0  28  46  6  
Colorado  6  2  23  44  4  
Washington  9  0  32  48  2  

Yesterday's Results Montreal 5, Boston 5 Detroit 1 2, Calgary 4 Hartford 6, N.Y Islanders 6 Phtladelphta 6, Pittsburgh 4 Los Angeles 4, Washington 3 
Today'a Games No games scheduled 

NBA SEASON BEGINS 
Tonight's Games Washington at Boston New York at New Jersey Cleveland at Philadelphia Chicago at Indiana Milwaukee at Detro1t San Antonio at Kansas City Golden State at Denver Dallas at Utah Houston at Los Angeles Phoenix at Portland Tomorrow's Games 
Phtladelphta at Atlanta 
Indiana at New York 
Detrott'at Chicago Denver at San Anton1o 
Kansas City at Dallas 
Boston at Milwaukee Houston at San Diego Phoenix at Seattle 
Utah at Golden State 
• •• Series 
continuedfrom page 18 
"They can break us up, they can tear us apart, but they can never take away that ring," Lopes said after the Dodgers' Game Six victory. "All those errors don't mean a thing now, do they?" 
Garvey, who hit .417 in the Series without an RBI, and Cey, .350 with six RBI, probably are the only two untouchable members of the Dodgers infield. 
"This infield might not be togeth­er next year, and we've worked to­gt!ther so hal'd for so long," Garvey said. "What better way to win a championship?" 
The Dodgers overcame setbacks at nearly every turn to win the Series. They lost in 1977 and '78 to the Yankees, each time in six games. They had not won a Series since 1965, beating the Minnesota Twins in seven. Of the 10 previous World Series meetings between the Yankees and Dodgers, the Dodgers had won only twice, the first time in 1955 and again in 1963. 
"There will never be another mo­ment like this because it's the first for us," Garvey said. "For 25 years, I've sweated and toiled, both physi­cally and mentally, for this moment. 
"The ultimate goal is the world championship." 
Guerrero, Garvey and Yeager were voted co-Most Valuable Players of the Series. The 32-year­old Yeager, who started only 22 games during the season while playing backup to young Mike Scios­cia, might have summed it up for the Dodgers. 
"This is the best moment of my life," Yeager said. "It's been a long time, nine years and four World Series, before winning the big one." 


The Observer ­
Friday, October 30, 1981 -page 23
Weekend 


, 
--· 
-



Kirt Bjork ( 10), shown here in a preseason game, will lead the Irish hockey team against Northern Michigan tonight. Bjork is one of the 

--------------------------------------------·-·-----· 
Friday, October 30, 1981 page 24 
liishoperiOCHA seasontooight 
By MICHAEL OLENIK Youth is the rule rather than the !.ports Writer exception with the Wildcats, as two seniors anchor the bludine while The actors and the stage are set for none can be found playing the front Notre Dame's CCHA home opener, line. Bruce Martin, Eric Ponath and and the critics are readying them­Dave Mogush will lead the visitor's selves for an exciting premiere. The attack, with some highly-touted Northern Michigan Wildcats invade freshmen picking up the slack when­the ACC tonight and tomorrow in ever possible. Defensively, Brian what probably will turn out to be an Yerigan andjeffTascofflook to have important series when the skates are an excellent final campaign as they finally stored away in the spring. attempt to provide some leadership for the relatively young defensive
Irish Coach Lefty Smith and his corps.
players fully realize that this blind date may not be all fun, and some 
Although the Irish will miss defen­serious preparation has been under­
semanjohn Cox and center Rex Bel­way in practice all week. Northern 
lomy, their relatively healthy team is Michigan, defending CCHA champ 
anxious to era~e all memories oflast for the second consecutive year, will 
year's home record disaster, and provide the type of challenge that 
with their season opening sweep forces any team to play good, smart 
over York College two weeks back, hockey or pay some expensive dues. 
they seem to be on the right track. 

Don't believe for a second, Guiding them on that track will be however, that any ofthe Irish skaters Smith and his co-captains Jeff Logan will take the Wildcats lightly, as and Dave Poulin, each of whom is defenseman Jim Brown is quick to out to prove their leadership skills point out otherwise. both on the ice and bench. 
"We know that they've lost s. · ne Dave Laurion will defend the Irish key people," says Brown, "but we goal for both games barring injury, also know that Northern Michigan and Jeff Perry, Kirt Bjork and Bill plays some ofthe best hockey in this Rothstein look to stay in their early league year in and year out. Hopeful­season scoring groove. John ly, we'll be ready to play the kind of Schmidt and Brown are set to show hockey that we are capable of." that the defense isn't as suspect as 
some think, especially in front ofthe

While it'~ true that the Wildcats friendly fans ofthe ACC.
did lose their top four scorers from last season, they return 13 lettermen Well, all that's left is the dimmingwho know how to win, evident of of the lights and the raising of thelast week's sweep of a strong Ferris curtain for what could very well be aState team. A leading factor in their 
hard-fought and entertaining show,success will be the performance of so get your seats early and hope for

last year's CCHA Co-Rookie of the an impressive performance.
Year, JeffPoeschl. As a freshman, the St. Paul, Minn., native chalked up a stingy 3.27 goals against average on IRISH ITEMS: Tonight is "Student the way to a 20-9-2 record, includ­Appreciation Night" at the ACC, as ing a 110-minute stretch without the hockey team pays tribute to the 
giving up a goal. The confrontation ND-SMC student body, who were so instrumental in saving the hockey
between Poeschl and the high­
program last winter. Tonight only,powered Irish forwards could 

the first 1,000 students who show

provide some action-packed mo­their ID cards will be admitted free.
ments for what should be a big and Gates open at 7 p.m. 
boisterous home crowd. 


By DAVE IRWIN 
Sports Writer 
joeJohnson is a quiet, unassuming 
type of individual. 
"I just do what I'm told," says Johnson, who shares time with junior Rod Bone at free safety. 
But defensive and secondary 
coachJimJohnson sees his freshman 
safety in an entirely different light. 
"He's a physical football player," Coach Johnson says. "Because he is such a hitter he gets around the foot> ball a lot." 
The difference between johnson on and off the field is the difference between night and day, Jekyl and Hyde. On the field, Johnson has made his presence known enough to make 1 7 solo tackles and break up two passes. But there are things to 
learn. "Both Rod and joe are inex­perienced and have made a couple 

Parade All-American from Fostoria High School in Ohio. "I was an Ohio State fan. But after I visited here I decided to come here." 
His coach knew what the Irish were getting. "He is one ofthe most impressive defensive backs I've seen on film," johnson says. "I told him he had a great chance to play as a fresh­man as a defensive back." 
Now, wait a minute. The Irish 
were considered to have one of the 
top returning secondaries in the 
country. How was a freshman going 
to break in? 

"It only made me work harder," 
shrugs Johnson. "Yeah, I am 
surprised at how much I play, 
though." 

He has no regrets at his decision either. "It is a great place athletically and academically," Johnson says. 
johnson has not been alone in 
SeeJOHNSON, page 20 of mistakes," says Coach Johnson, referring to when Michigan's An-. thony Carter burned the Irish on a 71-yard pass play and also when johnson and the rest of the secon­dary lost its containment respon­sibilites.in the Purdue. In that game, the Irish secondary allowed Scott Campbell to complete a Hail Mary pass down to the Irish one-yard line in the last minute to set up the win­
ning score. 
"Ifhe Oohnson) has any faults, it is 
that he is an overaggressive football 
player," Coach Johnson says. "You 
can't be overaggressive back there. 
"He is going to be a good 
defensive back. He has good hands, 
he thinks and he is a hitter. He just 
needs more game experience." 
Yet johnson almost didn't end up 
at Notre Dame. 
"They got in touch with me late," 
Johnson says of Notre Dame's 
recruiting efforts of the former 


-
UpbeatIrishmustpreventletdownto beatNOIVJI 
If you can be encouraged by a losing football game, then 
we are really encouraged about our football team after its 
14-7 loss to Southern Cal last Saturday. 
We think we found ourselves as a football team, and now as 
we prepare for a good Navy team tomorrow, we have to 
remember that we played a good football game and to keep 
our heads up. At the same time, we also must guard against a 
letdown and try to maintain the enthusiasm and intensity we 
had last week against the Trojans. 
Saturday's game was a great game for spectators to watch. There was great execution on both sides and the hitting was excellent. Each team had just one turnover, and the penalties and mistakes were minimal. We feel Southern Cal is one of the best football teams in the nation. 
Saturday's performance was easily the best our offensive line has produced this season. For the first time the kids had confidence in what they were doing and they were really firing offthe ball. That's the reason Phil Cart~:-r didso well and gained 161 yards. He would be the first to tell you that, too. 
And deft-nsively, we thought we played an excellent team game. People may wonder about that when tht·y notice that ~arcus Allen gained J'4-:' yards. But he is ~uch a great runner that he is going to get his I 00-1 50 yards because he will carry it so much. 
It is really hard to single out one player because everyone on defense played so welL But we think defensive tackle Tim Marshall,"a sophomore fwm Chicago, is really becoming an excellent player. He ha~ been consistent all season and Satur· day he .had some big plays. making six tackles, two ofthem for losses. 
Another reason our football team played well was the work ofour prep squads during the week. They really did an excellent job simulating Southern Cal and that's why we feel they arc the unsung heroes ofthe game. 
The turning point ofthe game had to be when their punter put us in a hole at our own three-yard line midway through the fourth quarter. We were limited in what we could do and when we had to punt it back to them they had good field position and used it to score the winning touchdown. 


That shows you the importance ofthe kicking game. 
We feel really bad for placekicker Harry Oliver, who missed two short field goals from tough angles we gave him. If we had hindsight, probably would have run plays that would have given him better angles. But we were tl)'ing to score in those situations. 
!larry has made some big Held goab at Notre Dame. Harry can kick under pressure hl showed it last season by kick­ing the 51-yard field goal with time running out to beat Mich­igan. 
If he had made the two field goal~ our strategy would have ht:-cn different on the last touchdown. We would have ran towards the middle of the field, allowed the clock to tick down, taken onr last timeout and sent Harry in to kick with the wind. 
Another thing that i:o apparent from Saturday's game is that 
defenses are becoming increasingly complex. When two 
evenly-matched football team; meet you won't see the hig 
score unless there are a lot ofturnovers in the game.just look 
at some of the scores from la:;r weekend. Minnesota b!·.tt 
Iowa, 12·1 0, and Texas knocked Southern Methodist from 
the unbeaten list with three field goals, 9-7. 
When you are abk to get the ball tluwn deep it is becoming more difficult to score the touchdown. There are so many great defensive athletes who can run now and it is difficult to fool them. They can take away many ofyour options near the goal line. 
We will be facing one of the best defenses in the nation Saturday in Navy. Coach George Welsh always seems to have a great defensive team and this year is no exception -Navy has been ranked high in the NCAA statistics. 
On defense, the Middies are led by linebacker Andy Pon­seigo·, their leading tackler, plus they return several top linemen from a year ago in middle guard Tom Jordan, tackle Paul Sorres and ends Mike Rouser and Travis Wallington. 
The defense has played a big part in Navy's 5-2 start. The two losses were against two of the better teams in the nation -a21-16 setback at Michigan and a 23-19loss at Yale, which is currently unbeaten. 
Offensively, we will have to stop tailhack Eddie Meyers, who has gained 666 yards this season and thL' passing attack ofsophomore quarterback Marco Pagnanelli and senior tight end Greg Papajohn. And if Navy gets close, they have an ex­cellent placekicker in Cincinnati senior Steve Fehr, who kicked against my Moeller teams while: at Princeton High School. • 
We will be without the services oftwo ofour receivers in the game. Senior Mike Boushka. a split end, suffered a broken bone in hb lower leg during preparations last week and bout for the season. Then on Saturday, wL' lost senior Dean Masztak, who is one of the outstsnding tight ends in the country, with torn knee ligaments. He had an operation Sun­day and is lost for th~: season. 
We must overcome those losses, though, and guard again:.t a letdown this week to beat Navy. 



